1990 SERVICES DIRECTORY 
TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION 


Di 


Engineering Research 

and Development Bureau 
Materials Bureau 
Soil Mechanics Bureau 


NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 


a eae ee 


<a Ct 


af 


as 
ae 
me ar 


= a) Sa 





r ay a 
d ~ 
‘ 2 - 1 
> : 4 ‘ 
Vouet t 2 
A." 5 J 
a = a ' 
ae 9 er, * 
q 7 


FOREWORD 


The Technical Services Division's mission is to provide materials and 
geotechnical engineering services and targeted engineering research in a 
timely and cost-effective manner for the Department and other government 
agencies. This is accomplished through development and recommendation of 
engineering policies, standards, and specifications; management of a quality 
assurance program for materials incorporated into Department projects; and 
conduct of specialized engineering studies requiring investigations, testing, 
analysis, and recommendations. 


The Division's Director is New York's principal representative to the 
Transportation Research Board (TRB), a unit of the National Research Council 
and the nation's foremost organization for exchange of transportation 
information. Through TRB, the Department helps plan and monitor the National 
Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP). The Director also serves as New 
York's coordinator for another major national research initiative -- the 
Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP). Division staff members are active 
in ongoing work of such organizations as the American Association of State 
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO), the American Society for 
Testing and Materials (ASTM), the University Research Transportation 
Consortium (URTC), and many specialized national technical and professional 
societies. 


This Directory -- prepared as part of the Division's Goal-Oriented Management 
program "communications goal" under direction of Wesley P. Moody, by A. Donald 
Emerich, James J. Finke, and Gerald R. Perregaux -- is intended primarily for 


circulation to new and current Division staff and regional soils and materials 
personnel. It was preceded in November 1989 by a preliminary Directory, still 
available to interested persons on request, which also lists contact names and 
telephone numbers in sections and units throughout the Division. 


January 31, 1990 us 
wySDOT 


Library OD 34 
es Ree ork 1223? 


AYbany> 


TECHNICAL SERVICES DIVISION 
ENGINEERING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT BUREAU 


Administration/Publications 
Materials/Pavements 
Structures 


Technology Transfer/Implementation/Special Services 


MATERIALS BUREAU 


Materials Administration 
General Engineering 

Field Engineering I 

Field Engineering II 
Chemical Testing Laboratory 
Physical Testing Laboratory 


Engineering Geology 


SOIL MECHANICS BUREAU 


General Soils Laboratory and Administration 
Subsurface Exploration , 

Engineering Geology 

Specifications and Standards 

Geologic Survey 

Highway Design and Construction: Regions 1 through 10 
Highway Design and Construction: Region 1l 

Roadway Foundation 


Structure Foundation 


CONTENTS 


ENGINEERING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT BUREAU . 


fy SeeYel rebe c b he ae hel eee ee gee an ea 
Adminiatration/Publications:. . > c« s.. 
Materials/Pavements Section ...... 
BEM Cures eSCOTLON wake 040: sane Suge 


Technology Beeree Genlenentari oni saeciol Sepeicee 


MATERIALS SBUREAU 9.5. 5 wos 6 ¢ + 6 « » 


DITeCeroceseOl C1 Clk seme + ios 7 
Materials Administration Section ... 
Adu Ss CrationeUni Gt. < sc... 4 © s+ 
Products0peract. onus Upit «1... ~. . .. 
General Engineering Section ...... 
Fields bovineerings 1) sa ier wyatt e o's 
Piel een eI Neerine Ll yee. ee) cles ss ee 
Chemical Testing Laboratory ...... 
Physicabelestine Laboratory sa..*,0n+, 
Engineering Geology Section ...... 


SOIL MECHANICS BUREAU . ...... -» 


PVE C CORES OLEICOG 5). 6 vcnie's. cus. 4c 


General Soils Laboratory and rinieteat ion 


Adiainieeration: Unit... os 4. .3 
General Soils Laboratory Unit . 
Subsurface Exploration Section .... 
Soil Survey and Mapping Unit ... 
 GeoonvetcabsSurveys Unit -psacr su « genus 
DEST Ei peeoupery i St ongUn Lt...) meus | * Rais 
Engineering Geology Section... ote 
Specifications and Standards Senet on 
Geologi casurvey p Sections uate? wy whe 


Highway Design and Construction Section: 
Highway Design and Construction Section: 


Roadway Foundation Section ...... 
Poundation Desian Unit 9. 3 6. ess 
Sott-Mechaniessbab  Unlt . ose s5 ane sets 

Structure Foundation Section ..... 
Bridge and Building Foundation Uascy, 
DER ELOGE LUNGS Bye ee oe gs Dis. 1s <3 eo she 


Regions 1 through 10 
Region ll. 


Section 


e e 


Section 


in & NM NH Po i 


~S 










Y 
: 
4 
‘ a 
Oy 
ons Pu it tiany Keema - 
> 
* 
errs ' pa 
< ; , 
i xy | Sid ‘ae 
7 . cre n i. ; ; at 
f sai *fiex: 10) eoerreae = 
j as 
" ~— = - | 
x 4 mM Oda, 
‘ aIyvait 
i » yt > 4 a * * * 4 ~ yaakad ™% ia y 
¥ ~ 7 7 
: & ‘* fatise 
° , , . * . ‘ . . > « iJ e 
ee - - me re . >.> * a ] 
“1 Piet a iether 
Un . - _ a ‘ ‘ + nt su ae et ret hot 
ios = olin eect: "1st, Labaing2\o ee ta 
j ” » { A erie ort f : 7 z aL 
> "“s * 4 « . : ‘ * e7 4 ‘+ « ‘* &, & «2,98 © °«@ ae. * 
oe = ie ? 
4 : ; ae a3 i a he 
' } « . a “« . ' . * } ee 
A 7? 
> e ie . * . . 
‘ | ° at} ' é 
F ait } 
v . 2 » ¢ a ‘ 
‘ 
* ¢ tJ] » 4 * e e 6 
wri } 
. > 7 if ‘ ' ¥ + 4 » 
> a i > ‘ . 2 ‘ * 
. » . 4 . ‘ ® > ‘ 
i ~ i 
‘ ‘ . ed ,4 « « : Ad 4 , 4 
‘ . . os « i) ital wt ie , 
¢ 1 
4 ' - “ef « . * + * * 2 
gol ant cri lat 
' ‘ ‘ . « ¥,¢ #4 ap @ es ® 
. * ; : 7 ‘> iu 
? Si ¥ ityoec eo13 872 
,' i Ga4- io we . + & ss 
a + ar) ad? ws m *' * + e- « 4 @ 
t. . A ‘ Yo) 
ci ‘ = * ' : . * Ah a4 Ay e @ * e % 
vi a e * « > ' . : * e © ~ 9 
a 
ve Py . e ~~ * .” S. 4 e 4 » 
‘ a 3 - ‘ _ h7 « « . ,* = he rT - v ‘a 
i’ . » D 7. © ‘ a | * . >, \F - « ‘wo 8) . 
« = ys ‘y ho " 
‘ ’ , ‘ e . © a*+ ie 7 + » a. i? Na 
c em : 
ar. (2 a ’ +4 eva 8 Rea 
a ( 
es ss 4 5 OF Agee anne ee 
+ ‘ 7 
} wa en ® Bs) Gwe ee’ le , . & 
¢ ~ oe a 
ee 4 ¥ 's . * ore * cm =) Say - 
Mead 1 2 Oe le r fal * Re a 
ce’ P 
“5%. © ©€'4(\¢ rela x ~ ed : 
: , ow sg ) — a 
a j i au 7 a 
-4 7 : A 7 
at 
> pill: 
i4 
/ - > ri 
-% iy 
{ 
1 
] “on 
y ’ i 


ENGINEERING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT BUREAU 


It is the mission of the Engineering Research and Development Bureau to manage 
a targeted engineering research and development program to enhance the quality 
and cost-effectiveness of engineering policies, practices, procedures, 
standards, and specifications. Activities performed to accomplish this 
mission include applied research, product evaluation, technical assistance, 
technology transfer, and engineering consultation. 


The Bureau fulfills this mission by: 


1. Soliciting research suggestions from Department employees and the private 
sector; 


2. Evaluating each suggestion and providing information and a recommendation 
concerning its disposition to the Engineering Research Technical Advisory 
Panel (ERTAP); 


3. Conducting in-house, high-priority research studies selected by ERTAP and 
approved by the Chief Engineer; 


4. Submitting ERTAP-approved studies to other research programs, such as 
NCHRP, FHWA, URTC, when adequate resources are unavailable or the problem 


is regional or national in scope; 


5. Providing technical assistance through literature searches, consultation, 
presentations, and training; 


6. Aiding in the implementation of research findings; 


7. Maintaining current awareness in technical areas of high priority to the 
Department; 


8. Coordinating the Department's responses to various Federal activities, 
such as pooled-fund studies, experimental features, and demonstration 
projects; 


9. Supporting other national or regional research activities such as SHRP, 
URTC, NCHRP, and TRB; 


10. Assessing and distributing technical information; 


11. Providing statistical, instrumentation, and editing assistance. 


2 Services Directory 


The Engineering Research and Development Bureau is comprised of the Director's 
office, three engineering sections, and an administration/publication section 
with the following responsibilities. 
DIRECTOR'S OFFICE 
The Director's office provides overall management for the Engineering Research 
and Development program and directly manages and supervises all the Bureau's 
activities. The Director's office is the focal point for contact with upper 
Department management, regions, industry, FHWA, and other research-related 
activities, such as SHRP, NCHRP, URTC, and TRB. 
ADMINISTRATION/PUBLICATIONS SECTION 

Services Provided 

1. Distributes Bureau reports and other publications. 

2. Maintains the Research library. 

3. Edits and illustrates publications manuscripts. 

4. Produces the Research Digest and formal papers (TRB, etc.). 

5. Coordinates contacts with Transportation Research Information Service. 

6. Provides Bureau administrative support. 
Capabilities/Equipment 

1. Maintains access to the DIALOG Data Base. 

2. Retrieves literature from the State Library System. 

3. Facilitates use of AASHTO Electronic Mail Bulletin Board. 

4. Microfiche reader. 
MATERIALS/PAVEMENTS SECTION 


Services Provided 


1. Conducts research to develop new or improved specifications for 
construction and maintenance materials. 


2. Confirms or develops design, construction, and maintenance practices that 
promote effective, economical use of materials. 


3. Develops design, construction, and maintenance practices that result in 
more economical pavements, improved service, optimized performance, and 
extended service life. 


Engineering R&D 3 


a 


Provides technical assistance to the Department in the subject areas of 
materials and pavements. 


Coordinates SHRP activities for the long-term pavement performance 
project. 


Performs multilayer elastic analysis of pavements. 


Capabilities /Equipment 


in 


fap 


10. 


ts 


ta 


13. 


14. 


is: 


16. 


a) 3 


1H. 


a9; 


20% 


Data Logger Fluke Model 2280B reads up to 1500 channels. 
Faultmeters - measures pavement faulting. 

Three Benkelman beams - measures pavement deflection. 
Pinning bars - measures joint openings. 

Concrete saw (30-in. diam blades). 

Fog room facilities. 


Walk-in freezer. 


Projection Tachistoscope Model 41010-A - controls the time a slide is 
visible. 

Retroreflectometer, Gamma Scientific Model 910 - measures sign panel 
reflectance. 


Two 16-mm high-speed cameras (variable speeds) and tripods and variable 
voltage regulators. 


Two 16-mm electric normal speed cameras. 

Two 16-mm electric intermediate speed cameras. 

Three 16-mm manual normal speed cameras. 

Camera power packs. 

Camera tripods. 

Electronic data recorders (Racal Store 4 DS). 

Digital oscilloscope (Nicolet Model 2090-111 with 206 processor). 
Analog recorder (Gulton Model TR 2000). 

X-Y recorder (Hewlett-Packard) 7015A. 


16-mm film editor (Kalart Craig). 


Zi. 


Pap ae. 


* So J 


24. 


Services Directory 


16-mm variable speed film projector. 


Video equipment - color video camera, video cassette recorder, and 
portable video cassette recorder. 


Two digital thermometers. 


Portable generators. 


STRUCTURES SECTION 


Services Provided 


Le 


Ve 


Conducts research to develop and verify new structural design techniques 
and refine existing methods. 


Performs load-capacity evaluations of existing structures’ through 
physical testing and analysis. 


Evaluates equipment and procedures for bridge inspection and evaluation. 
Performs mathematical analyses of unique structural configurations. 
Provides assistance for structural evaluation and monitoring. 


Provides technical assistance to the Department in the area of 
structures. 


Provides finite element analysis. 


Capabilities /Equipment 


1a) 


2: 


Static data logger - 80 strain-gage channels, 30 thermocouple channels. 


Dynamic data logger - Eight channels with individual signal conditioning. 
Sample rate to 5000 per sec per channel. 


Structural testing laboratory - 26- by 60-ft floor, 30-kip capacity 
tiedowns at 2 ft centers, 5-ton overhead crane. 


Electronics laboratory - design, construction, installation, calibration, 
and repair of electrical instrumentation and measurement systems. 


Fourier analyzer - a specialized electronic data processing system that 
measures vibrational responses of a structure - four-channel capability, 
frequency span from DC to 20 kHz. 

The following software packages perform or support data analysis: 


a. GIFTS (finite element analysis). 


b. STARMODAL (modal analyses program). 


Engineering R&D 5 


c. WINDOWS (software utility package). 
d. MATHCAD (mathematical software package). 


e. Fortran 77, Q Basic, Basic and C. 


TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER/ IMPLEMENTATION/SPECIAL SERVICES SECTION 


Services Provided 


b 


Conducts engineering research to develop or improve specifications and 
practices in areas not directly related to structures, pavements, or 
materials. 


Provides technology transfer and consultation services to the Department 
in various engineering subject areas. 


Provides statistical consultation. 


Coordinates Department activities with the following transportation 
programs: 


a. Federal technology transfer program. 
pee Unio. 

c. FHWA pooled-fund studies. 

d. Federal demonstration projects. 

e. FHWA experimental features program. 
f. NCHRP. 


Administers implementation of Engineering Research and Development Bureau 
research results within the Department. 


Provides engineering consultation services to facilitate library services 
involving the DIALOG data base. 


Reviews and coordinates with research and technology transfer centers for 
awareness of projects ongoing in other states. 


Edits and publishes Technology News Transfer, a quarterly report aimed at 
keeping the Department's engineers informed of technological advances 
that may impact their work. 


6 Services Directory 


Capabilities/Equipment 


1. Staff experience with following software applications: 
a. Desk-top Publishing: First Publisher, Newsroom. 
b. Project Management: Harvard Project Manager. 
c. Expert Systems: Exsys, Insight 2+, Prolog. 
d. Communications: Crosstalk, Procomm. 
e. Presentation Graphics: Chartmaster, Signmaster, Freelance, PC Paint. 
f. Developmental Tools: Turbo Pascal, APL Plus 5.0. 


g. Numerical Analysis: Statgraphics, MathCad, SAS, Mystat, Solo, 
Statxact, Q-Solver, TK Solver, Survcalc. 


h. Micropaver. 
2. Machine shop. 
3. Audiovisual equipment. 


4. Maintains schedule for use of the garage. 


MATERIALS BUREAU 


It is the mission of the Materials Bureau to provide a quality assurance (QA) 
program for materials incorporated into Department projects, materials 
engineering services for design and construction, evaluation of material 
performance, and technology transfer. 


The Bureau fulfills this mission as follows: 


l. Specifies, through materials engineering, the appropriate material 
characteristics, construction techniques, and levels of quality. 


2. Assures, through inspection and testing, that materials incorporated in a 
project are what was specified. 


3. Monitors materials performance, and evaluates and implements materials and 
construction technology. 


4. Provides a complete range of laboratory testing, noise measurement, and 
pavement friction testing services. 


5. Supports regional offices in their materials programs by providing 
equipment, supplies, staffing support, and related services. 


6. Provides training to Department design, construction, and maintenance 
personnel as it relates to materials. 


7. Provides overall direction and management of the materials program. 


The Materials Bureau is comprised of the Director's Office and seven 
laboratory, engineering, and administrative sections with the following 
responsibilities. 


DIRECTOR'S OFFICE 


The Director's Office provides overall management for the materials program and 
directly manages and supervises all Materials Bureau activities. The 
Director's Office is the focal point for contact with upper Department 
management, regions, industry, FHWA, and various national organizations such as 
AASHTO, ASTM, TRB, SHRP, and others. 


MATERIALS ADMINISTRATION SECTION 


The Materials Administration Section is comprised of Administration and Product 
Operations Units with the following responsibilities. 


Services Directory 


Administration Unit 


i te 


Provides overall administrative support services to the Bureau, including 
accounting, budgeting, purchase, personnel, inventory, forms and publi- 
cation control, vehicle procurement, maintenance of files, operation of 
shipping and receiving dock, and clerical support. 


Manages procurement and disbursement of sampling and testing supplies to 
regional materials units, as well as sampling supplies and forms to 
consultant inspection agencies. 

Manages the materials sampling, testing and inspection consultant contracts 
used by regional materials units, the Structures Division, and the 
Materials Bureau. 

Maintains Bureau files including: 

a. Complete set of active construction contract documents 


b. Bureau test reports 


c. Bureau correspondence 


Product Operations Unit 


1. 


Develops and operates QA programs for specific construction materials, 
including cement, bituminous liquids, reinforcing steel, bridge bearings, 
and precast concrete items. QA activities include: 


a. Serving as the primary contact in the Department for industries engaged 
in manufacture and/or fabrication and supply of these materials to 
Department construction projects. 


b. Coordinating materials sampling and inspection among suppliers, 
regions, and consultant inspection agencies. 


c. Directing activities of consultant inspection agencies at various 
locations within New York State, as well as throughout the United 
States and Canada. 


d. Taking final (accept/reject) action on test results with attendant 
communication of the action to suppliers and regions. 


Develops and administers the "Materials Inspection Manual," which is also 
Part 2A of MURK. 


Directs and coordinates sampling and testing of lead-based paint waste and 
determines hazardous/non-hazardous status of the material represented by 
the sample, with the attendant notifications. 


Materials 9 


GENERAL ENGINEERING SECTION 


Services Provided 


i 


10. 


1G 


12. 


Performs materials engineering functions related to materials and equipment 
performance, construction application methods, safety issues, and economics 
in design, construction, and maintenance of transportation facilities. 


Develops QA programs for various manufactured products and materials, such 
as paints, epoxies, bridge bearings, preformed joint seals, pavement 
markings, reflective sheeting, etc. 


Evaluates products for use as construction items in Department contracts, 
establishes approved product lists, and prepares materials data sheets. 
Some examples are: thin polymer overlays, elastomeric concrete, protective 
coatings, delineation devices. 


Investigates and reports materials failures, determines causes of problems, 
recommends solutions, and documents performance. 


Develops specifications, construction methods, and special tests relating 
to materials, equipment, and construction practices. 


Trains personnel in application of materials standards and testing methods 
pertinent to construction; e.g., paint inspection, pavement marking 
inspection, installation of joint and crack sealers/fillers, etc. 


Provides special testing services, including pavement friction testing and 
noise measurements. 


Develops and maintains computer data bases for certain materials-related 
areas to support the design and construction program. 


Provides equipment services including procurement, periodic calibration, 
and loan of specialized equipment for use in the Department's construction 
program -- e.g., noise measuring meters. 


Develops and implements policies and programs for dealing with certain 
construction materials -- e.g., pavement markings, bridge bearings, 
pavement joint and crack sealers/fillers, structural paints. 


Provides liaison with commercial producers, construction and professional 
organizations, and other governmental agencies. 


Disseminates information on new technical developments to federal, state, 
and local agencies. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


ie 


Noise measurement meters, Nagra dual-channel sound-level recorder, B&K 
one-third octave band analyzer. 


10 Services Directory 


2. Pavement friction measurement system conforming to ASTM E 274. 
3. Magnetic paint-film-thickness gage. 

4. Thin protective coating adhesion tester. 

5. Flux continuity tester. 

6. Coating holiday tester. 

7. Flexible-delineator-post impact tester. 


Unique Files 


1. Computer data files including asphalt test data, concrete cylinder 
data, Marshall test data, bridge bearing test data, air void data, 


strength 


aggregate friction inventory data, bridge deck potential data, and bridge 


deck delamination files. 


2. Test data files on various materials, appurtenances, and construction 


equipment. 


3. Technical reference files, texts, and reports on various materials, 


appurtenances, construction equipment practices. 
FIELD ENGINEERING I 


Services Provided 


1. Provides engineering services and technical reports for materials used in 
pavements, structures, dams, locks, drainage facilities, and concrete 


appurtenances. 


2. Develops specifications, evaluates new products and technology, and 


provides materials-related training. Primary materials include: 
a. Portland cement concrete pavement and structures 
b. Precast concrete products and concrete pipe 


c. Metal and plastic pipe drainage materials 


3. Provides evaluations and recommendations for rehabilitation and/or repair 
of pavements, structures, dams, locks, drainage facilities, and other 


facilities/appurtenances. 


4, Provides consultation and engineering assistance in design, construction, 


maintenance, testing, and QA. 


5. Manages and publishes the NYSDOT "Approved Lists for Materials and 
Equipment" for use on NYSDOT projects. 


Materials i 


62 


9. 


Provides services for specialized concrete bridge deck overlay systems, 
including mix designs, training, assistance, evaluations, and repair 
recommendations. 


Provides on-site portable concrete coring services and testing to regional 
and Main Office units for design and construction. 


Provides microcomputer assistance, training, and programming related to the 
Materials program area. 


Coordinates new or special product evaluations for NYSDOT. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


iS 


2. 


On-site nuclear-gage concrete-density measurement (Troxler nuclear 
gage services). 


On-site rapid testing evaluations: 

a. Electrical potential surveys 

b. Covermeter and delamination detection surveys 

c. Swiss hammer, rebound hammer, pulse velocity, and Windsor probe testing 
Materials program area video operations: 

a. Production/recording 

b. Editing/dubbing 


c. Materials-related training video distribution 


FIELD ENGINEERING II 


Services Provided 


ie 


Provides engineering services, develops quality assurance programs, and 
conducts plant inspections for the two major field-produced materials -- 
portland cement and asphalt concrete. Provides inspections of liquid 
bituminous materials (emulsions) facilities. 


Develops specifications for the above listed materials. 


Evaluates new products and technologies, including asphalt additives, to 
improve asphalt concrete pavement performance. 


Provides materials engineering assistance to Design, Construction, 
Maintenance, and the regions. Included in this activity are existing 
asphalt concrete pavement evaluations. 


12 


By 


Services Directory 


Manages the Independent Assurance Sampling and Testing program (IAST), and 
the BAMS production quantity totaling systems. 


Coordinates training of regional personnel in performing plant inspections 
and field testing of concrete. 


Develops procedures for recycling existing pavements, including hot-mix 
recycling using asphalt concrete plants and in-place recycling using both 
hot surface and cold techniques. 


Manages the pavement coring program and profilograph pavement roughness 
measuring program. 


CHEMICAL TESTING LABORATORY 


Services Provided 


7< 


6. 


Performs materials testing of a chemical nature on a variety of engineering 
materials. Primary materials tested include asphalt cement and emulsions; 
portland cement; fine aggregate; epoxy; stainless and high-strength bolts, 
nuts, and washers; structural paint; neoprene joint sealer; fencing; 
highway marking materials (thermoplastic and traffic paint); concrete water 
and admixtures. 


Recommends routine acceptance/rejection actions for construction materials 
to support the QA function of the Bureau. 


Performs chemical testing to support various Department engineering activi- 
ties. This includes such testing as chloride content in hardened concrete; 
bituminous concrete mix designs; PCB analysis of water and sediment samples 
for Soils and Waterways; sulfates in soils; heavy metals and chlorides in 
soils, recycled concrete, and sediment. 


Performs laboratory evaluations of asphalt laboratory facilities as part of 
the QA program. 


Provides training to regional inspectors in asphalt cement concrete 
sampling, testing, and inspection. 


Participates in AMRL and CCRL proficiency sample programs for bituminous 
materials and mixes, cement, and paint. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


l. 


Atomic absorption apectrometer - Chemical analysis of cement, paint 
pigments, and various other items that can be put into solution. 
Determination of hazardous elements in solid waste according to EPA SW-846. 
Determination of chlorides in concrete. 


Atomic emission spectrometer - Determination of the elemental composition 
of metals including stainless steel, high-strength steel, and aluminum 
alloys. . 


Materials LS 


ae 


Atomic emission spectrograph - Qualitative elemental analysis of unknown 
solid samples. 


Gas chromatograph - Determination of PCB's in water and sediment samples 
and other volatile materials. 


Infrared spectrophotometer - Qualitative determination of organic materials 
in samples such as paint, latex, and concrete. 


Ultraviolet-visible spectrometer - Determination of chemical species in 
solution such as sulfate in soils, DCI in precast concrete, and detergents 
in water. 


Salt spray cabinet - Evaluation of the effect of salt water on samples such 
as coated steel products. 


Weatherometer - Evaluation of the effect of sun and rain on materials such 
as paint, epoxy, and other coatings. 


PHYSICAL TESTING LABORATORY 


Services Provided 


1. 


Performs materials testing of a physical nature on a variety of engineering 
materials. Primary materials tested include fine and coarse aggregate, 
cement, pozzolans, fly ash, grout, epoxy, concrete additives, curing 
compounds, concrete cylinders and cores, precast concrete units, 
reinforcing bars, wire strand, bolts, guide rail, plastic pipe, bearings, 
joint sealer and other rubber and neoprene materials. 


Recommends routine acceptance/rejection actions for construction materials 
to support the QA function of the Bureau. 


Performs physical testing to support various Department engineering 
activities. This includes portland cement concrete mix trial batches, air 
content in hardened concrete, freeze-thaw testing for various materials, 
and specimen preparation for examination and testing. 


Participates in AMRL and CCRL proficiency programs for cement, aggregate, 
and portland cement concrete. 


Repairs and maintains existing test equipment and builds new test equipment 
for the three Technical Services Bureaus and other Department units. 


Provides training to regional concrete inspectors in portland cement 
concrete sampling and testing, including ACI certification. 


Coordinates regional materials laboratory program, including providing lab 
supplies and equipment, evaluating test equipment and lab test procedures, 
AMRL and CCRL proficiency samples, and training lab technicians as 
necessary. 


14 


Services Directory 


Capabilities/Equipment 


1. 


12. 


Universal testing machines - tensile and compression force tests 
a. Range 0-600 K at constant rate of load 
b. Range 0-30 K at constant rate of crosshead movement (inch/minute) 


Stress/strain recorders - measure and record stress/strain data for various 
materials in tension or compression tests. 


X-ray machine - examination of various metals and welds. 


Hardness testers - Brinell, Rockwell, and Superficial Rockwell on metal 
specimens. 


Drop-weight tear testing of metal. 


High-pressure air meter - measure air content of hardened concrete 
specimens. 


Linear traverse air content - microscopic examination of hardened concrete. 
Freeze-thaw chambers - testing of concrete and aggregate samples. 
Alkali/aggregate reaction testing by expansion (ASTM C 227). 

Concrete mixer - capability to produce trial concrete batches. 


Calibration equipment - verify force test machines (0-600 K), thermo- 
meters, pressure gages (0-10,000 psi), vacuum measurements. 


Full machine shop capabilities. 


ENGINEERING GEOLOGY SECTION 


Services Provided 


i 


Coordinates the aggregate QA program, including the sampling, testing and 
performance evaluation of aggregates. 


Develops specifications for aggregate materials used in portland cement and 
asphalt concrete; evaluates new aggregate products and technologies. 


Conducts geological investigations of Department aggregate sources. 
Takes final (accept/reject) action on aggregate test results with attendant 
communication of the action to the regions. The Section also maintains a 


testing history of all aggregate sources. 


Manages and publishes "Approved List of Sources of Fine and Coarse 
Aggregates" for use on NYSDOT projects. 


Materials 


6. 


a. 


15 


Reviews and takes final (accept/reject) action on Geologic Source Reports 
required for all Department aggregate sources. The Section also maintains 
an operational history of all aggregate sources. 


Provides consultation and geotechnical assistance in evaluating aggregate- 
related pavement and structure problems. This includes evaluation of 
aggregates as pavement friction providers. 


Coordinates recycled waste product aggregate evaluations for the 
Department. 


Provides training to Departmental personnel in aggregate evaluation 
procedures. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


ie 


+ So 


Laboratory aggregate techniques - Carbonate staining identification, 
insoluble residue determination, and petrographic analysis. 


Thin-section equipment - Preparation of thin sections for sand and drilled 
core analysis, special evaluations and failure examinations, using 
microscopy techniques. 


Petrographic microscope - Rock and mineral identification and asbestos 
determination. 


Ultraviolet fluorescence lamp - Identification of silica gel product of 
alkalai-silica reaction. 


sabofoor ¥] sine 


“ 


pie ale > "hoped ; 



















“nt 6 Sea) - 





riiatedn avenodss?) = veuptados2 ee ae 
4° afigke ait 750" bas conrataeaat Sinteer aJaai 


bY abStiSee BETS Oy ys = t aaiis sei si 


tieexs orillte?t bes enackwavinve ietaaee ,ate 
f e ‘4 amt. re gP a \ 
Si tktasht Iszenkm: bas good = ‘tmeening »t 
; : : _ 2% Rone 
, > rien 
a2 fTInSbi = qe’ ‘438 RetobH dat 





7 or 
& e740 Coa res 
e oe | : - 
al eWu4riceocicas b¢€ 
i i 7 


vei napee’) active 5 le 
ve per feu (e uh rian (era 
- ait Redhead Bay td 


‘fo toe 
a. "49 ans 





sao om PYG 
7 ad 


SOIL MECHANICS BUREAU 


It is the mission of the Soil Mechanics Bureau to provide all the geotech- 
nical engineering services in the specialty of earthwork and foundation 
engineering needed by the Department's program for the solution of soil, 
rock, and groundwater problems. 


The Bureau fulfills this mission as follows: 


Ps 


The 


Manages, on a Departmentwide basis, those portions of the Department's 
programs concerned with earth, rock, and groundwater engineering 
studies. 


Coordinates technical activities of all Department units involving 
problems related to soils, foundations, and geology. 


Directs operations of the Main Office soils program and technical 
operations of the Regional Soil Groups. 


Provides earth engineering services for design, construction, and 
maintenance of highways, buildings, bridges, ports, railroads, and 
waterways. 


Develops plans, policies, and procedures for fiscal management, 
purchasing, and personnel development for the Main Office and Regional 
Soils Sections. 


Monitors quality assurance of Main Office and Regional Soils and 
Regional construction groups concerning all aspects of the soils 
programs (drilling, sampling, testing, materials acceptance, con- 
struction control, and engineering services). 


Soil Mechanics Bureau is composed of the Director's Office, two 


laboratories, and eight engineering and administrative sections with the 
following responsibilities: 


DIRECTOR'S OFFICE 


Manages the Department's geotechnical program and provides a focus for 
AASHTO, ASTM, TRB, and training activities. 


Ly 


18 


Services Directory 


GENERAL SOILS LABORATORY AND ADMINISTRATION SECTION . 


Administration Unit 


is 


La 


a je 


Furnishes accounting, budgeting, purchasing, personnel, clerical, 
filing, and stenographic services to the Bureau. 


Provides services for procurement of state vehicles, equipment and 
supply inventory, and employee safety. 


Maintains the stockroom for all Main Office supplies, regional 
drilling supplies, and program manuals and publications. 


General Soils Laboratory Unit 


Services Provided 


1 


Lee 


Conducts laboratory tests and field testing for numerous routine and 
special earthwork needs. 


Conducts tests including identification, compaction, and gradation for 
design and construction control of earthwork and related items. 


Conducts tests for the stabilization of soils for various subgrade, 
subbase, base, and shoulder purposes, using bituminous materials, 
portland cement, hydrated lime, fly ash, salt, and various other 
stabilizing agents. 


Conducts soundness and plasticity tests for the approval/rejection of 
granular materials for construction. 


Conducts tests for the approval/rejection of topsoil used on 
Department projects. 


Provides technical direction to the Regional Soils laboratories and 
field earthwork construction control testing operations. 


Designs and conducts specialized tests necessary to evaluate the use 
of waste and recycled materials. 


Conducts training of permanent and temporary personnel for earthwork 
inspection on a statewide basis. 


Provides statewide field services to implement earthwork construction. 


Monitors and controls nuclear moisture-density test equipment and 
procedures for the Main Office and regions. 


Soil Mechanics | ae 


th 


Conducts and evaluates and participates in quality assurance (QA) 
programs for Main Office, Regional laboratory, and construction 
inspection staffs such as: 


a. AMRL: AASHTO Materials Reference Lab Program (participant). 


b. SMRL: Soil Mechanics Reference Laboratory Program (participant 
as well as manager) for all Main Office, Regional Soils, and IAST 
participants. 


Ce IAST: Independent Assurance Sampling Testing Program (respon- 
sibility for training and overseeing all aspects regarding the 
soils portion of this program). 


d. Inspects and monitors Regional laboratories regarding equipment 
and procedures. 


e. Conducts earthwork inspector's schools to train Regional soils 
and construction staffs and temporary construction inspectors. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


Granular material, soil classification, soil stabilization, topsoil and 
compaction testing. 


SUBSURFACE EXPLORATION SECTION 


Soil Survey and Mapping Unit 


Services Provided 


le 


4. 


Progresses terrain reconnaissance and earth materials resource sur- 
veys. Prepares reports for physical environment studies, including 
wetlands, flood plains, erosion potential, and other physical aspects, 
such as hypsographic maps, slope maps, unconsolidated aquifer situa- 
tion maps, and climatological data. 


Serves as liaison between Department and U.S. Department of Agricul- 
ture on a cooperative, long-term research project (Statewide Soil 


Survey Mapping). 


Conducts all geotechnical engineering activities for waterways, 
including canal bottom sampling for dredging permits. 


Designs building foundations, dams, and canal structure foundations. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


i. 


Ee 


Published ground water resource bulletins and stream flow data. 


Field water quality testing (Hach field chemical test kit). 


20 


Services Directory 


8; File of all published terrain reconnaissance reports. 
4, State building foundation files. 


Geophysical Surveys Unit 


Provides geophysical surveys (seismic, resistivity, and vibration 
monitoring) for all Department planning, design, construction, and 
maintenance activities. 


Capabilities/Equipment 

fats Research model vibration monitoring seismograph. 

5% Remote data loggers with piezometers (well monitoring). 
4. 24 trace seismographs. 

a Electrical resistivity unit. 

6% Plane table. 


Drilling Supervision Unit 


Le Provides technical supervision for all subsurface explorations pro- 
gressed by or for the Department, such as drilling, probing, and hand 
augering. 


2h Responsible for statewide operation of Dutch cone penetrometer, and 
other specialized drilling operations. 


Bi Sets standards, monitors quality of state and contract drilling, and 
oversees drill inspection contracts. 


4. Sets standards for and controls inventory of all drilling equipment 
and supplies for the regional soils drilling programs. 


os Provides recommendations on drilling and coring of soil and rock. 

6. Provides recommendations on concrete and masonry coring (deep work). 
ie Supervises drilling aspects of all subsurface instrumentation. 

8. Recommendations on sealing of borings and wells. 

oR Provides advice on pumping applications, water transfer, grouts, etc. 


10. Provides support for probing and hand augering operations and equip- 
ment. 


11. Provides recommendations on drilling operations on water. 


Soil Mechanics Lae 


ENGINEERING GEOLOGY SECTION 


ite 


Advises on construction problems of geologic nature involving charac- 
teristics of various rock formations and their associated structural 
features that affect engineering considerations, i.e., stability of 
rock slopes, bearing capacities for structural foundations, rock 
quality for stone fill and riprap, drillability and resistance to 
blasting of rock during excavation operations, and transmissibility of 
blasting vibrations in various rock types. 


Advises on procedures for obtaining suitable water supply from subsur- 
face aquifers during well construction operations. 


Organizes, directs, and implements blasting operations to assist 
Department maintenance staff and communities throughout the state in 
conducting corrective procedures involving rockslides, unstable rock 
slope, sight distance, and fixed obstacle problems. 


Advises on the alleviation of ice jams and does blasting if needed. 


Provides technical assistance concerning blasting safety and confor- 
mance to specifications, conducts preblasting meetings, and evaluates 
all blasting plans for rock excavation, blasting permits, and demoli- 
tion. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


3 


4 


licensed blasters 

blasting machines 

sets of magazines (cap and powder) at strategic locations in Region 1 
(Warrensburg and Defreestville) and Region 8 (Kingston and 
Luddingtonville) 

lightning detectors 

air horns 

bullhorns 

two-way voice activated communicators 

vibration monitoring seismographs 


ice augers. 


blasting mats 


oe 


Services Directory. 


1 3500-watt generator 


3 deep-well pumps 


1 rock bolt hydraulic tension equipment and strain gage 


SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS SECTION 


re Conducts major special projects to investigate, develop, and implement 
improvements in geotechnical engineering operations of the Bureau, and 
supports operating sections through technical assistance in effecting 
innovations. Projects are assigned by the Director. 


dis Projects may involve any of the following in a given period: 


a. 


Develops of new geotechnical specifications to be incorporated 
into the Department's standard specifications. 


Performs of HP&R formal research projects as principal inves- 
tigators on topics in the geotechnical field. 


Designs and develops specialized custom equipment for laboratory 
and/or field usage. 


System analysis, design, and implementation of computer applica- 
tion programs and internal Soils Bureau automation projects. 


Develops new design, field, or laboratory test methods, proce- 
dures, or other standards. 


Js Provides the Bureau with sustained technical support: 


a. 


e. 


System management of local Digital minicomputer systems and 
application support of their custom software. 


Maintenance and repair for TACT station hardware. 
Centralized hardware and software support for microcomputers. 


Application development and database administration for Bureau 
systems on the IBM mainframe. 


Staff training in computer applications. 


GEOLOGIC SURVEY SECTION 


lL. Advises Bureau and Department on design problems of a geologic nature 
involving rock and groundwater. 


7 Be Designs rock slopes for new alignments and remedial work. 


Soil Mechanics 23 


Determines allowable bearing capacities for foundations on rock. 


Designs appropriate rock slope stabilization measures, including rock 
bolting, scaling, excavation, etc. 


Conducts investigations and prepares specifications for ground water 
supplies. 


Provides technical assistance to Geophysical Surveys Unit. 
Provides input for earthquake (seismic) designs and standards. 
Conducts ground water evaluations (salt contamination, dye tests). 


Maintains statewide rock slope inventory. 


HIGHWAY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SECTION: REGIONS 1 THROUGH 10 


Services Provided 


fae 


Furnishes technical liaison in earthwork engineering subjects during 
all phases of the Department's highway projects from project ini- 
tiation through construction and operation. 


Advises Regions on optimum location, position of grade line, suitabil- 
ity of earth materials, and on problems relating to earthwork con- 
struction; develops and evaluates specifications for earthwork, 
excavation, cut slopes, subgrades, subbases, riprap, stream, bank and 
slope protection, subsurface drainage, etc. 


Reviews all phases of highway plans and specifications, and advises 
Regions of additions or deletions necessary to economically account 
for earthwork and terrain conditions to be encountered. 


Assists Regions on solutions of earth engineering problems encountered 
during construction. 


Promotes implementing new technology related to exploration, inves- 
tigation, and solution of earth engineering problems. 


Responsible for all phases of the Department's railroad and airport 
programs related to earthwork and foundation engineering problems. 


Responsible for all soil stabilization work, including specifications, 
development, field calibration of equipment, and inspection and 
evaluation of stabilized soil material during construction. 


Responsible for the earthslope (landslide) inventory program. 


Responsible for pavement design activities including all associated 
field evaluation work. 


24 


10. 


116 


Services Directory. 


SHRP geotechnical coordination. 


Coordinates geotechnical environmental issues. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


Ee 


10. 


Air photo library 

Map sheet library - (USGS and NYSDOT) 
Contract proposals 

Contract plans 

Engineering Instructions 

Engineering Bulletins 

Slides and photographs 

Microfilm file 

Saltzman projector 


Slide projector 


HIGHWAY DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SECTION: REGION 11 


Provides the same services as HD&C upstate, but because of the highly 
urbanized environment and greater emphasis on reconstruction, traffic 
maintenance, and structures, it has the following additional responsibil- 
ities: 


L: 


Evaluates geotechnical support required by consultants and assesses 
adequacy of geotechnical design services. Evaluates adequacy of 
consultant and in-house geotechnical designs, particularly as relating 
to restrictions imposed on these designs in the New York City environ- 
ment. 


Guides geotechnical designs, details, and specifications of consul- 
tants and Department designers with particular attention to spe- 
cialized soil-structure interaction problems affecting structure 
elements such as caissons, bored-in piles, post grouted bored-in 
caissons and piles, earth and rock anchors, tied back walls, braced 
excavations, sheeting, soldier pile and lagging walls, pile load 
testing, etc. 


Assists Regional construction on all aspects of geotechnical problems 
including the project's effect on adjacent facilities. 


Soil Mechanics 25) 


5. 


oy 


Monitors and documents performance of major geotechnical projects to 
improve future designs and construction performance. 


Provides appropriate technology transfer to Region 11 and New York 
City DOT staff, including formal training sessions and office and 
field support for design, construction, and maintenance. 


ROADWAY FOUNDATION SECTION 


Foundation Design Unit 


re 


4. 


Conducts investigations and analyses, and prepares reports pertaining 
to design, construction, and performance of foundations for embank- 
ments, earth slopes, dams, dikes, and other earth structures. 


Develops and evaluates methods, techniques, and specifications for 
foundation treatments. 


Provides specialty services for slope stability, settlement, land- 
slides, erosion control, geosynthetic applications, and _ special 
earthwork problems. 


Provides field instrumentation, installation, and monitoring for 
design, construction, and post-construction evaluation. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


Slope indicators 
Theodolite 

Wye level 

Tape extensometer 
Tiltmeter 

Truck scales 


Field vane-test equipment 


Soil Mechanics Lab Unit 


Services Provided 


Li 


Designs and conducts tests related to use of earth in its natural 
state for support of embankments, cut slopes, pavements, bridges, 
buildings, dams, and other structures. 


Performs routine design test programs in determining strength, 
consolidation, and permeability characteristics and routine 
acceptance/rejection of geosynthetics. 


26 


Services Directory 


Designs and conducts specialized geotechnical testing for solution of 
specific problems, including geosynthetic testing, instrumentation 
testing, and others. 


Performs model studies for solutions to geotechnical problems (pipe 
filters, piles, walls, etc.) 


Monitors and evaluates soil identification practices for Main Office, 
Regions, and consultants. Provides schools as needed. 


Provides leadership in American Society for Testing and Materials 
(ASTM), International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and 
other professional organizations for geosynthetics testing and 
acceptance procedures. 


Capabilities/Equipment 


Strength, consolidation, permeability, geosynthetic testing. 
MicroVax II computer dedicated to lab test operations (TACT). 


Hewlett/Packard Model 87 computer dedicated to lab test operations 
(triaxial). 


STRUCTURE FOUNDATION SECTION 


Bridge and Building Foundation Unit 


ike 


Provides geotechnical support for all structure/soil interactions, 
primarily for Structures Division, with considerable support to the 
regional design and construction staff. 


Conducts foundation engineering investigations and analyses, and 
prepares reports pertaining to design, construction, and performance 
of foundations for bridges, buildings, large-diameter pipes, walls, 
and similar structures. 


Performs and evaluates special field testing such as static and 
dynamic pile load tests, including determination of pile bearing 
capacity and/or damage to piles. 


Develops and evaluates methods, techniques, and specifications for 
structure foundation construction. 


Performs geotechnical evaluation of new products (proprietary walls, 
pipes, etc.) 


Operates videotaping equipment to document construction et Aa 
and trains personnel in its use. 


Soil Mechanics Fol 


Drafting Unit 


I. 


ae 


Furnishes all drafting and related services to all Bureau units. 


Operates CADD equipment for preparing drawings and visual aids. 


Capabilities /Equipment 


Pile driving analyzers 

Oscilliscope 

CAPWAP system 

1 Panasonic WV3250 video camera (VHS format) 

1 Quasar VM-27AC video camera (S-VHS format) 

1 Panasonic AG 2400 video cassette recorder (VHS format) 

1 Panasonic PV 1560 portable video cassette recorder (VHS format) 


1 Panasonic AG 1950 multi-function video cassette recorder (VHS 
format) 


1 NEC 25-in. autocolor monitor 
CADD terminal - (Interpro 32) 


Videotape library 


a 


tgiw and 


Pi 


hove i ert f Ifa a. oi, eaak%9 













ob iF 4 ine uc fy 


z a |S ae oe 
hae gamtuarb he oo 
° ‘2 oeee 
F ow 
tee aovd ige ree 7 
5 Lieat®. Ff cavtdee 4¢ 


ine bee 


tewro) S8Y) stoees > Oakes 


dastto1 .2HV~2) atoumeo a *) 
Pee. 


+ ri) r i= ky , Prey 4 - ae: 
tot 33250mne Oebhy OBE Sho 


. =! ei Lao here axaviinie’ baat 37 
»3 sijseemo sabtv sidaziog O9t) V4 atnoeaaad: 


a bs JAS on gad ti jj. usr € ? a ‘ 
nsbiv coltonvi~reion GEL OA Slacence Ss i m2 
; a 























— 


sa rok = 
aay . 


he 


‘i 
tetiacn yolo o703un — ae 
: eek 


> 


(Sf ases ne Fg oa 
oo 
\ 1 ' { sO» dee 
« os 1 . he he 4 
+ ; 7 : ’ A oat ng 7 
g 4 : ‘fe 3 > Pa ‘amt. : eat S 
d i (tetage | y “f L 5 bed 
rt 4 "4 a; 7 dani 
“4B : 4 - . et ae 


\alueteg opecios esta! Sa on 
< : Ss eS, ingiods ing phe 
rea 


r Cemage éo pitene i» : 
y 8 7 

4 7 e.an a4 ¢b\ aa ew : 

’ ‘on. ¢ nae ituctiaiy 

. % 

salen 


@veluation. 
% a 2 





00995 
LAI 
LRI 


