Specfol  Collections 
Fdnberg  Lib.,  PSUC 
Does  Not  Circulate 


Oft 


ocus 


Plattsburgh 

STATE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NEW  YORK 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  SEPTEMBER  5,  1 997 


Judson:  Plattsburgh  State  Off  to  a  Great  Fall  Semester 


Terming  it  a  "turn-around  year,"  Platts- 
burgh State  President  Horace  Judson  told 
faculty  and  staff  at 
the  fall  opening 
breakfast  last  Fri- 
day the  college  was 
in  a  better  shape 
heading  into  the  se- 
mester than  in  his 
previous  three  years 
as  president. 
Judson  identi- 


Judson 


fied  several  positive  signs,  including:  state 
funding  for  the  college  at  the  same  level  as 
last  year;  a  tentative  faculty  contract  with 
salary  increases;  and  an  increase  in  new  full- 
time  faculty.  He  said,  "We  are  cautiously 

Graduates,  Students 
Score  High  on  State 
Teacher  Exams 

If  the  New  York  State  Teacher  Certifi- 
cation Examination  is  any  indication  of  how 
effective  Plattsburgh  State' s  programs  are  in 
preparing  students  to  become  teachers,  then 
the  programs  are  a  shining  success. 

More  than  200  students  and  recent  gradu- 
ates from  Plattsburgh  State  took  the  test  in 
May  and  97  percent  passed  the  exams;  com- 
pared to  the  statewide  average  for  all  SUNY 
colleges  of  92  percent. 

Dr.  Raymond  Domenico,  director  of  the 
Center  for  Educational  Studies  and  Services, 
said  the  results  of  the  nine  exams  given  are 
a  great  measure  of  the  college's  effective- 
ness in  educating  teachers. 
"  The  scores  from  our  students  demon- 
strated a  higher  percentage  of  passing  that  is 
above  all  other  teacher  preparation  programs 
in  New  York  State,"  said  Domenico.  "We 
are  really  pleased  with  the  results." 

The  lowest  passing  percentages  of  ex 
(See  "Teacher  Exams"  on  Page  3) 


optimistic  that  we  will  have  subsequent  fall 
semesters  like  this  one." 

This  year,  the  president  said  the  college 
would  work  toward  meeting  several  initia- 
tives, including:  expanding  the  institution's 
commitment  to  diversity  among  faculty,  staff 
and  students;  increasing  institutional  grants 
for  faculty  research;  developing  a  non-based 
salary  merit  program  fund;  and  revising  a 
faculty/staff  development  plan. 

"This  college's  commitment  to  diver- 
sity is  clear  and  long-standing  and  precedes 
my  tenure  here;"said  Judson,  in  reference  to 
diversity  and  equity.  He  said  to  begin  the 
effort  to  meet  these  goals,  several  approaches 
would  be  undertaken.  An  administrator  for 
diversity  initiatives  would  be  appointed  to 
initiate  a  faculty-mentoring  program  for 


minority  students,  establish  cooperative  pro- 
grams with  historically  black  colleges  and 
universities  as  well  as  develop  other  pro- 
grams and  activities. 

Judson  also  said  Plattsburgh  State  would 
continue  to  develop  and  refine  the  high  pri- 
ority goals  begun  last  year.  "I  will  encourage 
a  strong  focus  on  the  review  and  revision  of 
general  education  and  the  development  of  a 
more  formal  active  curriculum  review  and 
reform  effort,"  said  Judson. 

Enrollment  management,  marketing  and 
increases  in  out-of-state  and  international 
student  attendance  will  also  continue  to  be 
emphasized  along  with  fundraising  and 
grants  acquisition,  Judson  announced. 
(See  Page  4  for  the  full  text  of  President 
Judson 's  speech  at  the  opening  breakfast.) 


Speaker  Says  College  Needs  Diversity  for  Next  Century 

Patricia  Russell-McCloud  said  Plattsburgh  State  must  be  ready  for  the  21st 
century  if  the  college  is  to  be  successful  in  its  mission  to  prepare  students  for  the  next 
millennium. 

Russell-McCloud,  a  successful  attorney  and  president  of  Russell-McCloud 
Associates  in  Atlanta,  told  the  faculty  and  staff  in  attendance  at  the  Fall  Opening 
Breakfast,  Friday,  August  29,  that  the  college  must  begin  to  reflect  the  multicultural 
diversity  in  today's  society. 

"We  can  and  must  focus  on  21st  century  readiness.  Adjustments  will  have  to  be 
made,"  said  Russell-McCloud. 

She  questioned  whether  "Anglos,"  which  make  up  one-third  of  the  population, 
should  continue  to  be  the  ruling  majority.  "We  are  accustomed  to  Anglos,  but  it  will 
not  be  that  way  in  the  21st  Century."  Russell-McCloud  said  that  in  just  three  years, 
nearly  two-thirds  of  the  country  will  be  of  color.  People  of  Hispanic  origins  will  be 
the  largest  single  ethnic  group  in  American  society  followed  by  African-Americans. 

She  said  that  colleges  and  universities,  including  Plattsburgh  State,  must  begin 
to  stress  the  true  demographics  of  the  next  century  and  discuss  diversity  openly  and 
honestly. 

"Diversity  isn't  just  legalism,  or  preferential  treatment,  or  ethnic  celebrations,  or 
minorities  of  colors  and  women  talking  to  just  themselves,"  said  Russell-McCloud. 
"You  have  to  think  globally.  You  have  to  have  sessions  on  diversity  and  conflict 
resolution.  It  is  good  for  the  soul." 

She  said  there  is  an  urgency  to  her  message  if  Plattsburgh  State  is  be  ready  for 
change.  However,  Russell-McCloud  said,  "It  will  not  occur  unless  a  methodical  plan, 

(See  "Diversity  Plan  Needed"  on  Page  3) 


Eight  Others  Receive  Associate,  Assistant  Ranks 

Seven  Faculty  Promoted  to  Full  Professor 


Seven  teaching  faculty  members  have  received  promotions  to 
full  professor  at  Plattsburgh  State  University  of  New  York.  Six  other 
teaching  faculty  and  two  Feinberg  Library  staff  have  also  received 
promotions.  Promoted  to  full  professor  are:  Dr.  James  Armstrong, 
anthropology;  Paul  Clare,  sociology;  Dr.  Peter  Conrad,  biology;  Dr. 
Marshal  Onofrio,  music;  Dr.  Rachel  Pollow,  nursing;  Dr.  Anita 
Rapone,  history;  and  Dr.  Robert  Weiss,  sociology. 


science-oriented  freshmen  learning  community  course  clusters. 
Conrad  has  received  several  grants  including  two  National  Science 
Foundation  Instrumentation  and  Laboratory  Improvement  grants.  A 
member  of  the  American  Society  of  Plant  Physiologists,Sigma  Xi 
and  the  International  Society  for  Plant  Molecular  Biology,  he  is  a 
member  of  the  University  Faculty  Senate  Resources  and  Planning 
Committee,  and  has  participated  in  the  Advisory  Committee  on 


Armstrong 


Clare 


Conrad 


Onofrio 


Pollow 


Rapone 


Weiss 


Named  associate  professors  are:  Dr.  Lynda  Ames,  sociology; 
Dr.  Vincent  Carey,  history;  Dr.  Jeanne  Ellsworth,  education;  and 
Beryl  Matthews,  art. 

Daniel  Gordon  of  the  music  department  and  Neal  Sand,  athletic 
trainer,  have  received  appointments  as  assistant  professors.  Theresa 
Leonard  and  Karen  Volkman  have  been  promoted  to  senior  assistant 
librarians. 

Armstrong  joined  the  Plattsburgh  State  faculty  as  an  assistant 
professor  of  anthropology  in  1981.  Armstrong,  whose  current  areas 
of  scholarly  expertise  cover  cognitive  anthropology,  social  organi- 
zations and  urban  anthropology,  has  written  and  lectured  exten- 
sively on  many  topics  including  the  effects  of  the  Middle  East  peace 
process  on  Israeli  social  and  cultural  issues.  He  has  completed  work 
on  one  book,  a  second  edition,  which  has  been  published  and  is 
finishing  work  on  a  second  one.  Chair  of  the  Anthropology  Depart- 
ment from  1989  to  1 995,  Armstrong  is  a  member  of  several  profes- 
sional organizations  including  the  American  Anthropological  Asso- 
ciation, Jewish  Ethnology  Network;  Association  for  Social  Scien- 
tific Study  of  Jewry  and  the  Association  for  Israel  Studies.  He  is 
chair  of  the  External  Review  Board,  a  member  of  the  Academic 
Policy  Committee,  and  has  received  several  grants.  Armstrong 
holds  a  bachelor's  degree  from  California  State  University  at  Long 
Beach  and  a  master's  and  a  doctorate  from  the  University  of 
California  at  Riverside. 

Clare,  came  to  Plattsburgh  in  1974  as  the  coordinator  of  the 
Criminal  Justice  Studies  Program  in  the  Sociology  Department, 
from  Mankato  State  College  in  Minnesota.  The  author  of  more  than 
20  papers,  articles  and  books,  Clare  has  written  extensively  about  the 
correctional  systems  and  organized  crime  in  the  United  States  and 
racketeering  and  the  Irish  National  Liberation  Army  in  Northern 
Ireland.  He  is  the  editor  of  Criminal  Organizations,  the  quarterly 
journal  of  the  International  Association  for  the  Study  of  Organized 
Crime,  and  was  honored  in  1996  with  the  association's  Founder's 
Award.  Clare  has  been  involved  in  several  campus  committees 
including  the  Criminal  Justice  Advisory  Committee,  the  Committee 
on  the  Conference  on  Women  in  Criminal  Justice,  and  was  co- 
advisor  of  the  Sociology  and  Criminal  Justice  Club.  He  holds  a 
bachelor's  degree  from  the  University  of  Dubuque  and  a  master's 
from  the  University  of  Iowa. 

Conrad  has  been  a  member  of  the  Biological  Sciences  Depart- 
ment since  1986.  In  addition  to  teaching  lectures  and  laboratory 
courses  in  the  biological  sciences,  he  has  actively  participated  in  two 


Connected  Learning  and  Course  Cluster,  Senate  Academic  Policies 
Committee,  and  Committee  on  Assessment  Strategies.  A  grant 
reviewer  for  the  NSF  ILI  and  the  USDA  grant  programs,  Conrad 
holds  a  bachelor's  and  a  master's  degrees  from  the  University  of 
New  Hampshire  at  Durham  and  a  doctorate  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  at  Amherst. 

Onofrio,  coordinator  of  the  Music  Program,  has  taught  courses 
at  Plattsburgh  State  since  1987.  An  accomplished  jazz  trumpet 
player,  Onofrio  has  hosted  the  college's  annual  Jazz  Festival  since 
1988.  He  has  conducted  the  musical  support  for  numerous  college 
events  inc  luding  Commencement,  Family  Weekend,  and  Open 
House  and  was  conductor  and  director  of  the  Adirondack  Youth 
Orchestra  from  1990  to  1992.  He  is  listed  in  Who's  Who  Among 
America 's  Teachers.  Onofrio  currently  serves  on  the  Resources  and 
Planning  and  Fall  Convocation  Committees.  He  will  have  three  of 
his  compositions  published  by  Margun  Music  this  fall.  He  holds  two 
bachelor's  degrees  from  the  University  of  Connecticut,  master's 
degrees  from  the  University  of  Nebraska  and  the  University  of 
Illinois  and  a  doctorate  from  Ohio  State  University. 

Pollow,  a  member  of  the  Nursing  Department  since  1977,  has 
lectured  and  written  extensively  on  gerontological  issues  including 
potential  adverse  effects  of  medication  usage  and  physical  changes 
of  aging.  Pollow  retired  as  a  lieutenant  colonel  in  1 993  after  25  years 
of  active  and  reserve  duty  with  the  United  States  Army.  She  is  a 
member  of  several  professional  societies  including  Omicron  Delta 
Kappa  and  Sigma  Theta  Tau  and  is  the  treasurer  of  Phi  Kappa  Phi. 
She  was  a  regional  nominee  for  the  New  York  State  Nurse  of 
Distinction  Award  in  1993.  She  has  published  in  a  number  of 
professional  journals  and  is  a  reviewer  for  several  of  them.  Pollow 
holds  a  bachelor's  degree  in  nursing  from  Plattsburgh  State,  a 
master's  degree  from  the  University  of  Texas  at  San  Antonio  and  a 
doctorate  from  The  University  of  Texas  at  Austin. 

Rapone,  chairperson  of  the  History  Department,  came  to 
Plattsburgh  State  in  1983.  She  has  traveled  to  Guatemala  and 
Mexico  on  several  occasions  to  study  the  treatment  of  the  Mayan 
indigenous  people.  She  has  co-authored  numerous  articles  particu- 
larly on  women  refugees  in  Guatemala  and  lectured  extensively  on 
the  subject.  Rapone  has  four  books  to  her  name  in  addition  to 
numerous  other  articles  and  papers  on  women  in  America.  A  current 
member  of  the  Enrollment  Planning  Council,  she  has  participated  on 
numerous  college  committees  and  programs  including  the  Women's 

(See  "Faculty  Promotions"  on  Page  3) 


[2] 


Longware,  Patel  Named  to  College  Council 


Longware 


A  1956  alumnus 
and  a  long-time  friend 
of  the  college  have 
been  appointed  to  the 
Plattsburgh  State  Col- 
lege Council. 

Governor  George 
Pataki  has  appointed 
John  F.  Longware  and 
Dr.  Soham  Patel  to  the  College  Council. 
Longware  replaces  the  late  Sally  Webb 
and  will  serves  until  2001,  while  Patel 
replaces  Robert  Pearl  and  will  serve  until 
2002. 

Longware,  a  1956  graduate  of  Platts- 
burgh State,  received  a  bachelor  of  sci- 
ence degree  cum  laude.  He  received  his 
master's  degree  in  education  and  a  certifi- 
cate of  advanced  study  in  public  school 
supervision  and  administration,  also  from 
Plattsburgh  State. 

For  thirty-one  years  he  served  as  an 
elementary  school  principal  in  the  Peru 
Central  School  District.  A  past  president 
of  the  Plattsburgh  Alumni  Association. 
Longware  has  been  a  member  of  the  Board 


Patel 


of  Directors  since 
1966.  He  has  also 
served  as  a  member 
of  the  Foundation 
Board  of  Directors 
and  in  1986  was  in- 
ducted into  the  Platts- 
burgh State  Sports 
Hall  of  Fame. 
Dr.  Patel  has  practiced  neurosurgery 
in  Plattsburgh  since  1 975  and  is  aconsult- 
ing  physician  at  hospitals  in  Malone, 
Massena,  Saranac  Lake,  Lake  Placid,  and 
Tupper  Lake.  Dr.  Patel  and  his  wife, 
Sudha,  created  a  significant  endowment 
fund  with  the  Plattsburgh  College  Foun- 
dation that  provides  $500  a  year  to  four 
undergraduates  who  are  majoring  in 
teacher  education,  pre-med  or  biology, 
economics ,  and  sociology  or  philosophy. 

He  received  his  Certificate  of  Quali- 
fication in  Neurology  from  the  University 
of  Edinburgh  in  1972.  Prior  to  that  he  was 
a  house  surgeon  in  hospitals  in  Baroda, 
India  and  at  Western  General  Hospital 
and  Royal  Infirmary  in  Edinburgh. 


College  Council  to  Discuss  International 
Recruitment,  Sports  At  Sept.  18  Meeting 


Attracting  international  students  to 
Plattsburgh  State  will  be  a  topic  of  dis- 
cussion at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Col- 
lege Council,  Thursday,  Sept.  1 8  in  the 
Alumni  Conference  Room,  Hawkins 
Hall  103. 

During  the  past  academic  year,  the 
Office  of  Student  Affairs  began  a  sig- 
nificant endeavor  to  enhance  the  re- 
cruitment and  retention  of  international 
students.  Peter  Luguri,  associate  pro- 
vost for  student  affairs,  and  Ed 
Englebride,  assistant  to  the  associate 
provost,  will  review  those  initiatives. 
The  College  Council  will  also  receive  a 


progress  report  on  the  possibility  of  add- 
ing four  new  intercollegiate  sports  at 
Plattsburgh. 

After  a  year-long  study  of  eight 
sports  by  the  college's  committee  on  the 
expansion  of  the  athletic  program,  pro- 
posals to  offer  women's  Softball,  men's 
lacrosse,  and  men's  and  women's  golf 
are  being  circulated  for  discussion  with 
faculty,  staff  and  students.  The  presi- 
dent is  expected  to  make  a  final  decision 
regarding  the  addition  of  the  four  sports 
in  early  October. 

The  College  Council  meeting  is 
open  to  the  public. 


Diversity  Plan  Needed 

( Continued  From  Page  1 ) 

purpose  and  mission  are  developed  and  ad- 
hered to.  The  time  is  here  and  the  place  is 
now.  Plattsburgh  must  acclimate  to  the  21st 
Century." 


Teacher  Exams 

( Continued  From  Page  1 ) 

aminees  associated  with  Plattsburgh  were 
recorded  on  the  liberal  arts  and  sciences 
exam  (96%)  and  the  written  test  for  elemen- 
tary assessment  of  teaching  skills  (97%.) 

[3] 


Plattsburgh  State  in 

Money  Magazine,  U.S. 
News  and  World  Report 

Plattsburgh  State  continues  to  receive 
recognition  as  one  of  the  top  colleges  in  the 
nation.  On  August  14,  Money  Magazine 
released  its  "1998  Best  College  Buys"  and 
Plattsburgh  State's  ranking  was  21st  in  the 
Northeast  and  was  listed  among  the  1 50  best 
colleges  in  the  country. 

President  Horace  Judson  said  he  was 
very  pleased  that  Plattsburgh  State  was 
among  the  top  150  colleges  of  the  LI  15 
public  a  nd  private  colleges  surveyed  in  the 
country. 

Plattsburgh  State  has  also  made  U.S. 
News  and  World  Report's  "America's  Best 
Colleges."  Plattsburgh  was  included  in  the 
guide' s  tier  II  ranking  of  top  regional  univer- 
sities. 


Faculty  Promotions 

(Continued  From  Page  2) 

Studies  Program  where  she  was  coordinator 
for  two  years.  She  has  received  numerous 
awards  including  the  two  NYS/UUP  Expe- 
rienced Faculty  Awards  and  a  Fulbright 
Senior  Scholar  Award.  Rapone  holds  a 
bachelor's  degree  from  Tufts  University,  a 
master' s  degree  from  Boston  University  and 
a  doctorate  from  New  York  University. 

Weiss  joined  the  Plattsburgh  State 
faculty  in  1985  as  an  assistant  professor 
of  sociology.  Chair  of  the  Sociology  Depart- 
ment from  1993  to  1996,  Weiss  was 
previously  internship  coordinator  for  the 
department.  He  has  written  numerous  ar- 
ticles on  the  social  history  of  private  polic- 
ing and  the  history  of  imprisonment  in 
Europe  and  the  United  States.  His  publica- 
tions include  a  study  of  the  origin  and  devel- 
opment of  the  Pinkerton  Private  Detective 
Agency  and  most  recently  has  co-edited  a 
book  comparing  the  prison  systems  of  16 
nations  in  the  context  of  economic  global- 
ization. Weiss  is  a  member  of  several  pro- 
fessional associations  including  American 
Society  of  Criminology,  American  Correc- 
tional Association  and  American  Sociologi- 
cal Association.  He  hold  a  bachelor's  degree 
from  Ohio  State  University,  a  master' s  from 
Xavier University  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  and  a 
doctorate  from  Southern  Illinois  University 
at  Carbondale. 


President  Says  Diversity  Among  Major  Initiatives  for  1997-98 


Editor's  Note:  President  Judson  addressed  the  faculty  and 
staff  at  the  11th  Annual  Fall  Faculty  Breakfast  on  August  29. 
This  is  the  full  text  of  his  speech. 

GOOD  MORNING! 

Welcome  back  for  the  start  of  the  '97- '98  academic  year. 

This  is  my  fourth  Fall  Opening,  and  it  is  significantly 
different  from  the  other  three. 

This  is  the  first  with  no  budget  cut  and  with  a  faculty 
contract,  and  with  salary  increases,  and  with  double-digit  new 
full-time  faculty  and  with  five  new  administrators. 

This  is  different.  And  we  are  cautiously  optimistic  that  we 
will  have  subsequent  Falls  like  this  one.  Hopefully,  this  is  a 
turn-around  year  leading  to  a  positive  period.  This  has  been 
a  very  difficult  decade  for  SUNY. 

The  last  two  years  have  been 
extraordinarily  difficult  because 
the  faculty  and  other  profession- 
als have  had  to  work  without  a 
contract,  without  raises,  and  even 
without  some  benefits.  Despite 
these  demoralizing  circumstances, 
you  have  continued  to  perform  in 

an  exemplary  fashion;  you  have  continued  to  move  this 
college  forward.  Your  dedication  and  commitment  did  not 
waver.  I  deeply  appreciate  your  commitment  and  your  profes- 
sionalism. And  I  thank  each  and  every  one  of  you. 

We  finished  the  '96-' 97  year  in  a  positive  position  finan- 
cially. We  moved  into  this  year  with  confidence  fiscally, 
because  we  created  a  $600,000  contingency  reserve,  enough 
to  deal  with  foreseeable  difficulties. 

We  start  this  year  with  steady-state  funding  from  the  state, 
with  that  contingency  reserve  and  with  a  positive  enrollment 
picture.  The  Foundation  raised  1.06  million  dollars  during 
'96-'97,  the  third  highest  in  history.  Importantly,  we  had  a 
record  number  of  alumni  donors  contributing  over  $400,000 
through  all  of  the  programs.  And  significantly,  faculty  and 
staff  contributed  from  all  sources,  $144,000. 

This  year  we  received  a  $  1 50,000  member  item,  thanks  to 
Senator  Stafford,  for  Environmental  Science,  Nursing  Tech- 
nology Projects,  and  equipment  for  Mass  Communication. 

The  major  construction  projects  on  campus  are  progress- 
ing very  well.  Despite  the  minor  inconveniences,  the  continu- 
ing upgrade  of  physical  facilities  and  our  campus  grounds  is 
critical  to  our  present  and  future  viability.  We  continue  to 
receive  compliments  about  the  attractiveness  of  our  campus. 
I  hope  we  have  these  minor  inconveniences  each  and  every 
year. 

This  past  academic  year,  we  had  several  noteworthy 


"  If  our  past  efforts  have  not  provided  the 
desired  result,  we  must  and  will  try  other 
more  effective  approaches,  some  which 
have  proven  successful  at  other  places.  " 
—  President  Horace  Judson  on  Diversity 


accomplishments  and  we  started  several  important  initiatives 
which  augur  well  for  our  strong  future .  Many  of  you  have  seen 
some  of  the  outputs  of  the  work  done  by  Creative  Communi- 
cation which  resulted  from  new  enrollment  management 
initiatives.  We  have  received  strong  positive  reactions  to  our 
new  recruitment  materials  and  our  marketing  efforts.  We 
enlarged  our  merit  scholarship  programs  for  new  freshmen 
and  transfer  students,  and  added  modest  programs  for  out-of- 
state  and  international  students.  Last  spring  we  began  plan- 
ning the  expansion  of  our  enrollment  management  plan  to 
include  out-of-state  and  international  students.  I  think  the 

implications  of  these  initiatives 
for  our  overall  enrollment  and 
student  diversity  are  obvious.  We 
believe  these  initiatives  will  have 
significant  positive  impacts  on 
our  Fall  '98  class,  quantitatively 
and  qualitatively. 

In  that  regard,  Plattsburgh 
State  supports  the  lowering  of  tuition  for  non-resident  stu- 
dents. A  marginal  cost  analysis  shows  that  it  would  benefit  the 
campus  fiscally  and  programmatically.  And  the  increases  in 
resources  and  geographic  and  cultural  diversity  would  benefit 
in-state  students  as  well.  Non-resident  students  would  still 
pay  significantly  more  than  resident  students.  This  campus 
once  enrolled  6700  students,  now  we  have  6000.  With 
additional  faculty,  we  can  accommodate  a  modest  increase  in 
students.  And  those  students  would  likely  have  higher  aca- 
demic quality  indicators.  And  importantly,  no  qualified  in- 
state students  will  be  denied  admission. 

The  Strategic  Plan  was  completed  last  year.  Drs.  Mowry 
and  Miller  are  co-chairs  of  a  task  force  which  is  developing  an 
operational  plan  as  a  companion  document  to  the  "Strategic 
Plan.  Dr.  Moran  will  say  more  about  this  during  his  remarks 
to  faculty  groups  later  today.  And  Drs.  Mowry,  Miller  and 
Moran  will  engage  you  in  continuing  discussions  in  the 
coming  weeks. 

Our  new  on-line  registration  system  used  last  spring  was 
highly  successful. 

For  '97-'98,  we  will  continue  to  develop  and  refine  the 
high  priority  initiatives  begun  last  year:  The  enrollment 
management,  marketing,  out-of-state  student  and  interna- 
tional student  initiatives.  Fundraising  and  grants  acquisition 
will,  of  course,  continue  to  be  very  high  priorities.  I  will 
encourage  a  strong  focus  on  the  review  and  revision  of  the 


[4] 


General  Education  Program  and  the  development  of  a  more 
formal,  active  curriculum  review  and  reform  effort. 

Over  the  next  two  years,  in  addition  to  the  across-the- 
board  raises,  we  are  scheduled  to  receive  three  discretionary 
increases  of  one  percent  each.  We  will  develop  a  plan  this 
semester  based  on  the  aggregate  total  of  the  three,  onr  percent 
increments  (approximately  $500,000).  The  plan  will  address 
structural  problems  in  our  base  salary,  including  compression 
of  salary  levels. 

This  semester: 

♦  We  will  revise,  approve,  and  initiate  a  faculty/staff 
Development  Plan  with  an  appropriate  budget,  in- 
cluding an  upgraded  faculty  travel  program. 

♦  We  will  initiate  a  modest  program  of  institutional 
grants  for  faculty  research.  These  would  be,  essen- 
tially, starter  grants. 

♦  After  we  determine  the  final  revenue  numbers  for  the 
fall  semester,  if  our  budget  situation  matches  our 
expectations,  we  will  develop  a  non-base  salary  merit 
program  funded  by  institutional  funds.  This  means 
the  merit  awards  would  not  be  part  of  the  base  salary. 
These  awards  would  be  in  addition  to  the  general  and 
discretionary  increases  provided  by  the  State.  I  will 
discuss  this  with  you  in  more  detail  during  this  semes- 
ter. You  may  receive  a  merit  award  every  year,  if  you 
performed  meritoriously  every  year. 

Last,  but  by  no  means  least,  last  year  we  started  several 
diversity  initiatives.  We  will  continue  and  expand  our  efforts 
to  fulfill  our  institutional  commitment  to  this  critical  area. 
Over  the  past  few  years  we  have  made  modest,  continuing 
progress  with  student  diversity.  And  we  have  made  similar 
modest  progress  with  gender  diversity  in  the  faculty  and  staff. 
But  we  must  do  more  in  both  of  these  areas.  However,  our 
progress  with  underrepresented  minorities  on  the  faculty  and 
staff  has  been  very  disappointing.  We  must  do  better  and  we 
will. 

This  college' s  commitment  is  clear  and  long-standing  and 
precedes  my  tenure  here.  During  the  last  presidential  search, 
you  clearly  expressed  the  requirement  that  the  president  must 
be  committed  to  diversity  and  equity.  I  read  the  Five- Year 
Plattsburgh  Plan  before  arriving  and  it  expressed  an  unequivo- 
cal commitment  to  diversity  and  even  included  some  diversity 
goals.  And  our  recent  Strategic  Plan  reiterates  and  re-empha- 
sizes that  commitment.  And  it  is  expressed  in  our  Mission. 
The  very  recent  review  by  Middle  States  of  our  Periodic 
Review  Report  is  very  laudatory  of  Plattsburgh  State.  Never- 
theless, it  does  cite  our  need  to  increase  the  diversity  of  our 
faculty,  staff  and  students.  Commitment  must  be  reflected  in 
real  results.  If  our  past  efforts  have  not  provided  the  desired 
result,  we  must  and  will  try  other  more  effective  approaches, 
some  which  have  proven  successful  at  other  places. 

This  year  we  will  appoint  an  Administrator  for  Diversity 


Initiatives  whose  responsibility  will  include:  the  initiation  of 
a  faculty  mentoring  program  for  minority  students;  establish- 
ing cooperative  programs  with  historic  black  colleges  and 
universities  in  several  areas;  and  developing  other  programs 
and  activities  as  well. 

We  have  a  primary  commitment  and  a  responsibility  for 
our  own  campus  community,  but  as  a  part  of  the  Plattsburgh 
and  North  Country  communities,  we  have  a  responsibility  for 
the  quality  of  those  communities  also.  And  we  have  an 
opportunity  to  partner  with  K- 12  educators. 

There  are  two  statements  which  I  think  cogently  express 
the  importance  of  and  the  rationale  for  our  diversity  commit- 
ment: 

♦  The  most  fundamental  rationale  for  student  di- 
versity in  higher  education  [is]  its  educational  value. 
Students  benefit  in  countless  ways  from  the  opportu- 
nity to  live  and  learn  among  peers  whose  perspectives 
and  experiences  differ  from  their  own.  (Neil  L. 
Rudenstine,  President  of  Harvard) 

♦  A  diverse  faculty  is  essential  to  a  pluralistic  campus. 
Faculty  create  the  curriculum  and  determine  the  qual- 
ity of  the  experience  in  every  classroom.  They  serve 
as  teachers,  mentors,  advisors,  and  role  models.  In  a 
word,  faculty  are  the  core  of  the  institution.  Without 
the  contributions  of  minority  individuals,  no  faculty 
or  institution  can  be  complete.  (American  Council  on 
Education) 

I  agree  with  a  growing  consensus  that  we  can  not  have  a 
college  of  the  highest  quality  without  diverse  student  bodies, 
faculty  and  staff.  I  believe  that  what  is  at  stake  is  the  Quality 
of  Plattsburgh  State. 

Our  diversity  theme  for  this  academic  year  proposed  by 
the  Diversity  Advisory  Committee,  is:  Excellence  Through 
Diversity:  Quality  Teaching  and  Quality  Learning. 

I  look  forward  to  this  academic  year  with  great  enthusi- 
asm and  expectations. 


Smaflman 


'70  Alumnus  Named  to  Develop  Career  Opportunities 

Edward  Smallman  to  Head  Career  Services  Center 

Edward  Smallman,  a  1970  Plattsburgh  State  graduate,  has 
been  appointed  director  of  the  Career  Services  Center,  formerly 
the  Career/Life  Planning  Center. 

Smallman  returns  to  his  alma  mater  from  the  Fletcher 
School  of  Law  and  Diplomacy  at  Tufts  University  in  Medford, 
Ma.,  where  he  was  director  of  the  Office  of  Career  Services  for 
the  past  two  years. 

As  director  of  the  Career  Services  Center,  Smallman  wants 
to  develop  strong  ties  with  businesses  and  recruit  organizations 
and  alumni  that  will  result  in  increased  professional  opportuni- 
ties for  Plattsburgh  graduates;  create  a  student  academic  center 
committed  to  intellectual  development;  and  improve  access  to  employment  opportunities 
for  students  and  alumni  through  networked  computers,  the  Internet  and  other  technological 
advances. 

Prior  to  his  position  at  Tufts  University,  Smallman  held  several  jobs  in  the  Career 
Services  and  Placement  Office,  Darden  Graduate  School  of  Business  Administration, 
University  of  Virginia,  Charlottesville,  Va.;  Personal  and  Career  Development  Center, 
Curry  School  of  Education,  University  of  Virginia,  Charlottesville,  Va.;  and  the  University 
Career  Center,  University  of  South  Carolina,  Columbia,  SC. 

Smallman  holds  a  bachelor's  degree  from  Plattsburgh  State,  a  master's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Michigan,  and  an  education  specialist  degree  and  doctorate  from  the 
University  of  Virginia.  He  is  a  member  of  several  professional  organizations  including  the 
American  College  Personnel  Association,  National  Association  of  Student  Personnel 
Administrators,  National  Career  Development  Association  and  American  Counseling 
Association.  He  is  a  national  certified  counselor  and  career  counselor. 


C-SPAN  Comes  to  Plattsburgh  State 


C-SPAN  came  to  Plattsburgh  last  week  as  the  cable  satellite  public  affairs  network 
retraces  the  steps  Alexis  de  Tocqueville  took  on  his  trip  through  America  in  the  early 
1800s.  President  Judson  greeted  the  C-SPAN  staff  as  the  bus  pulled  up  in  front  of 
his  home  on  Court  Street  Thursday  afternoon.  Shown  with  Judson  is:  Sam 
Scialabba,  New  York  regional  manager  for  Falcon  Cable;  Debbie  Lamb,  C-SPAN 
marketing  representative;  and,  Keith  Warehime,  C-SPAN  bus  production  special- 
ist Tocqueville  came  to  the  United  States  in  1831  from  France  to  study  the 
American  prison  system.  However,  he  was  more  interested  in  the  foundations  of 
American  democracy,  and  ultimately  wrote  the  milestone  book,  Democracy  in 
America.  During  a  nine-month  journey  that  began  in  May,  the  C-SPAN  bus  is 
visiting  the  55  cities  Tocqueville  traveled  in  his  1831  journey  across  the  nation. 


Higgins 


Freshman,  Transfer 
Deposits  Meet  Goal 

"We're  on  goal  as  of 
Sept.  2,"  said  Rich 
Higgins,  director  of  ad- 
missions. That  translates 
into  941  freshman  depos- 
its, which  actually  sur- 
passes the  enrollment 
goal  of  930.  There  are 
currently  630  transfer  de- 
posits, with  an  original  enrollment  goal  of 
625.  Readmit  students  came  in  at  139, 
exceeding  that  target  by  9. 

"This  has  been  a  difficult  and  challeng- 
ing recruitment  year,"  Higgins  said,  attribut- 
ing the  new  student  enrollment  success  to 
hard  work  put  forth  by  the  admissions  team 
and  the  support  of  the  faculty,  staff,  enrolled 
students  and  alumni. 

"Students  have  many  more  choices 
when  compared  to  a  few  years  ago,  so  it's 
vital  that  we  get  keep  putting  our  best  efforts 
out  to  attract  and  enroll  students." 

The  college  selection  process  contin- 
ued to  be  competitive  among  colleges  and 
universities  in  the  state,  and  a  variety  of  re- 
cruitment activities  were  employed  to  bring 
in  the  class.  Specialized  visitation  week- 
ends, personalized  letter  campaigns,  tele- 
phone calls  made  by  faculty  and  students, 
competitive  financial  aid  packages,  detailed 
credit  evaluations,  and  student-guided  cam- 
pus tours  all  contributed  to  the  good  enroll- 
ment yield. 

In  addition  to  the  traditional  financial 
aid  packages,  academic  merit  scholarships 
were  expanded  and  targeted  as  enrollment 
incentives  for  qualified  freshmen  and  trans- 
fers. 

More  than  $180,000  was  awarded  by 
the  Plattsburgh  College  Foundation  to  217 
entering  students  who  possessed  excellent 
academic  records.  Plattsburgh  offers  more 
scholarship  aid  than  most  of  its  SUNY  com- 
petitors, and  that  has  caught  the  notice  of 
students  and  parents. 

New  this  year  are  10  freshman  commu- 
nity service  scholars,  six  international  stu- 
dent scholars  and  five  empire  state  minority 
merit  scholars.  In  all,  106  freshmen  and  1 1 1 
transfers  are  merit  award  winners. 

"We've  worked  very  hard  to  bring  in 
this  class,"  said  Higgins,  "and  that  makes  it 
all  the  more  important  to  value  everyone  and 
to  help  new  students  persist  into  the  next 
year." 


[6] 


Resident  Assistants  Perform  1,000  Hours 
of  Community  Service  in  Clinton  County 


While  students  were  pre- 
paring to  return  to  Piattsburgh 
State  last  week,  resident  assis- 
tants from  12  dormitories  per- 
formed community  service 
projects  throughout  Clinton 
and  Essex  counties. 

RAs  from  Macomb  Hall, 
spread  cedar  mulch  around  a 
playground  at  St  John '  s  Acad- 
emy in  Plattsburg  while  oth- 
ers students  converged  on  vari- 
ous sites  to  paint,  constructed 
ramps,  landscaped,  and  per- 
formed trail  maintenance. 

From  the  Salvation  Army 
and  the  Essex  County  ARC  to 
the  Champlain  Valley 
Physicans  Hospital  and  Point 
Au  Roche  State  Park,  the  stu- 
dents performed  tasks  that 
would  not  have  been  completed 
for  some  time. 

A  group  of  RAs  from  Mason  Hall  put  up  posters  at  various  locations  throughout 
the  Piattsburgh  area  on  behalf  of  the  Child  Care  Coordinating  Council  alerting 
families  of  the  various  programs  the  council  offers.  Meg  Alberry,  coordinator  for 
Family  Connections  Resource  Center,  said  the  students  performing  a  very  valuable 
service. 

"With  a  staff  of  three  we  can't  get  out  to  many  of  the  locations  to  put  up  these 
posters.  We're  thrilled  to  have  their  help,  "  said  Alberry. 

Bill  Laundry,  dean  of  students,  said  the  RAs  performed  approximately  1,000 
hours  of  service  for  the  community  in  one  day. 


Second  Year  in  Row 

Alcohol  Awareness  Program  Wins  National  Award 


Piattsburgh  State  has  been  selected  for 
the  second  consecutive  year  one  of  the  top 
ten  award  winners  in  the  National  Collegiate 
Alcohol  Awareness  Week  programming 
competition. 

In  a  letter  to  Cori  Jackson-Matthews, 
coordinator  of  the  Wellness  Office,  Edward 
Hammond,  national  chair  of  NCAAW  and 
president  of  Fort  Hays  State  University, 
praised  Jackson  and  the  college  for  their 
efforts  in  curbing  alcohol  abuse  and  misuse 
on  the  college  campus. 

"It  is  gratifying  to  know  that  your  insti- 
tution appreciates  the  necessity  for  the  edu- 
cational community  to  get  involved  in  pro- 
moting healthy  lifestyles  among  young 
people  today,"  said  Hammond.  "Awareness 
through  education  is  one  of  the  most  effec- 
tive weapons  we  have  to  combat  alcohol 
misuse  and  abuse." 

Piattsburgh  State's  programming  has 


taken  on  a  holistic,  multi-dimensional  model 
of  personal  wellness.  This  approach  pro- 
motes positive  decision-making  and  respon- 
sible lifestyle  choices. 

Last  year  the  program  expanded  to  in- 
clude a  series  of  wellness  workshops  with 
two  offered  each  week  during  the  fall  and 
one  per  week  during  the  spring. 

"I  didn't  expect  we  would  win  again," 
said  Jackson-Matthews  who  was  excited 
and  surprised  to  hear  the  college  had  won 
two  years  in  a  row.  In  addition  to  Piattsburgh 
State,  the  winners  are:  University  of  Minne- 
sota at  Duluth;  College  of  William  and  Mary; 
Regis  University;  Purdue  University;  Vir- 
ginia Commonwealth;  University  of  Mis- 
souri at  Columbia;  George  Mason  Univer- 
sity; Central  Michigan;  and  SUNY  Oswego. 

Jackson-Matthews  will  receive  the 
award  at  the  National  Peer  Education  con- 
ference in  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  in  November. 

[7] 


Worthington 


Worthington  Named 
Lifelong  Learning 
Center  Director 


Janet  Evans 
Worthington,  of 
Thibodaux,  La., 
has  been  ap- 
pointed director 
of  the  Center  for 
Lifelong  Learning 
at  Piattsburgh 
State. 

Worthington 
was  formerly  the 
director  of  the  Di- 
vision of  Continuing  Education  at  Nichols 
State  University  in  Thibodaux.  While  at 
Nichols,  she  was  responsible  for  the  sched- 
uling of  credit  courses  at  off-campus  sites; 
initiating  and  implementing  credit  and  non- 
credit  programs  for  business,  industry  and 
the  community;  and  directing  the  distance 
learning  programs. 

At  Piattsburgh  State,  Worthington  has 
set  several  goals  for  the  center.  They  are: 

Enhance  summer  school  offerings:  Es- 
tablish the  course  schedule  earlier  after  sur- 
veying students  for  courses  that  would  be  of 
most  interested  to  them,  and  provide  more 
opportunities  for  students  and  unique  pro- 
grams for  special  groups. 

Develop  programs  for  businesses.  Es- 
tablish links  with  businesses  in  the  commu- 
nity to  determine  what  educational  training 
employees  need  and  expand  off-campus  of- 
ferings. 

Enlarge  the  adult  education  program. 
Raise  awareness  of  services  Piattsburgh  State 
can  provide  adult  learners  in  Northern  New 
York. 

Expand  distance  learning.  The  center 
will  assume  control  of  the  distance  learning 
system  established  with  five  sites  in  North- 
ern New  York  within  the  next  year.  New 
courses  and  programs  will  be  established  to 
meet  the  needs  of  distance  learners. 

Establish  a  winter  intercession.  The 
college  will  develop  an  intercession  between 
the  fall  and  spring  semesters  offering  several 
creative  courses  and  programs  for  students. 

Worthington  has  held  several  positions 
at  West  Virginia  Institute  of  Technology 
where  she  was  previously  coordinator  of 
Continuing  Education  and  director  of  the 
Honors  Program. 

She  holds  a  bachelor's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Chicago,  a  master's  degree 
from  the  University  of  Iowa  and  a  doctorate 
from  Florida  State  University. 


Professor  to  Examine  Meteorite  for  Life  on  Mars 


Do  you  have  a  piece  of  the  "rock?"  Dr. 
George  Flynn  does  and  he  will  be  conduct- 
ing tests  on  it  soon  to  determine  whether 
there  was  once  life  on  Mars. 

The  rock  in  question  is  ALH 84001 ,  the 
meteorite  scientists  at  the  NASA  Johnson 
Space  Center  in  Houston  say  contains  evi- 
dence of  possible  ancient  life  on  Mars.  Sci- 
entists believe  the  meteorite  rocketed  from 
the  Martian  planet  1 6  million  years  ago  after 
a  large  asteroid  blasted  a  chuck  of  the  red 
planet  into  space. 

It  encountered  Earth's  atmosphere 
1 3,000  years  ago  and  fell  in  Antarctica  as  a 
meteorite.  It  remained  there  until  1984  when 
it  was  found  by  a  scientific  expedition  of  the 
National  Science  Foundation' s  Antarctic  Me- 
teorite Program  exploring  the  Allan  Hills  Ice 
Field  in  Antarctica. 

Flynn,  a  professor  of  physics,  received 
about  five  grams  of  the  ALH 84001  Mars 
meteorite  from  NASA.  "This  is  part  of  the 
first  allocation  of  this  meteorite  for  scientific 
study  since  reported  in  August  1996  of  evi- 
dence of  possible  ancient  life  in  this  meteor- 
ite," said  Flynn. 

Dr  David  McKay  of  the  Johnson  Space 
Center  and  co-workers  reported  last  year 
that  the  meteorite  contained  some  forma- 
tions within  the  Martian  rock  suggesting  that 
there  was  ancient  biological  activity  on  Mars. 
One  pieces  of  evidence  was  a  high  concen- 
tration of  what  are  called  polycyclic  aro- 
matic hydrocarbons.  Flynn  said  these 
hydrocarbons,  found  in  small  nodules  of 
carbonate  in  the  meteorite,  are  frequently 
found  as  a  decay  product  of  living  material. 


Flynn  and  several  other  fel- 
low  scientists  have  already 
found  some  interesting  results 
from  smaller  samples  of  the 
meteorite.  "We  have  shown  a 
close  association  between  two 
different  carbon  compounds 
and  the  material  McKay  and 
coworkers  had  called  attention 
to,"  said  Flynn.  "With  the  new, 
much  larger  sample,  we  will  be 
able  to  continue  this  work." 

The  ALH84001  sample 
was  shipped  from  the  Johnson 
Space  Center  wrapped  in  alu- 
minum to  avoid  contact  with 
any  carbon  compounds  which 
was  then  placed  in  a  sealed  plas- 
tic bag.  "To  avoid  contamina- 
tion, I  can't  remove  it  except  in 
a  "clean  room,"  which  we  have 
down  at  the  Brookhaven  Na- 
tional Laboratory  on  Long 
Island,"  said  Flynn. 

Flynn' s  project,  to  study 
the  distribution  and  types  of 
carbon  compounds  in  the 
ALH84001  meteorite,  is  being  funded  by 
NASA.  This  is  one  of  more  than  a  dozen 
investigations  of  the  meteorite  selected  by 
the  space  organization  for  funding. 

"I  plan  to  use  three  state-of-the-art  in- 
struments at  Brookhaven  to  map  the  distri- 
bution of  carbon  compounds  in  this  rock. 
One  of  the  instruments  will  provide  images 
with  a  spatial  resolution  1000  times  better 
than  that  used  in  the  McKay  experiment," 


Dr.  George  Flynn  holds  the  sample  of  the  Martian  meteorite 
he  will  conduct  tests  on  to  determine  if  life  existed  millions 
of  years  ago  on  Mars. 

said  Flynn. 

"As  a  result  of  this  enhanced  resolution, 
we  will  be  able  to  determine  just  how  closely 
the  carbon  compounds  are  associated  with 
the  other  unusual  features  McKay  and  his 
colleagues  reported.  The  instruments  at 
Brookhaven  will  also  let  us  look  at  a  wider 
variety  of  carbon  compounds  than  McKay's 
group  was  able  to  examine." 


UUP,  State  Settle  Four- Year  Contract  Including  Benefits,  Raises 


If  a  tentative  four-year  contract  settle- 
ment between  New  York  State  and  United 
University  Professions  is  approved,  ap- 
proximately 400  faculty  and  professionals 
at  Plattsburgh  State  will  see  across-the- 
board  salary  increases,  a  cash  lump  sum 
payment  of  $  1 ,250  per  employee,  and  res- 
toration of  the  UUP  Benefit  Trust  Fund 
covering  dental  and  vision  benefits. 

The  21,000  UUP  members  at  29 
SUNY  campuses  are  currently  balloting 
on  the  agreement,  which  was  tentatively 
agreed  upon  during  negotiations  in  July. 
Terms  of  the  agreement  that  would  be 
retroactive  to  July  2,  1995,  and  includes: 
across-the-board  salary  increases  of  three- 


point-five  percent  effective  Jan  1 .  of  1 998 
and  1999;  an  immediate  one-time  lump 
sum  cash  payment  of  $1,250  to  all  full- 
time  employees  and  prorated  for  all-part- 
time  employees;  an  immediate  payment 
of  $500  on  the  base,  retroactive  to  July 
1996  for  all  full-time  employees  and  pro- 
rated for  all  part-time  employees  with 


term  appointments;  full  restoration  omen- 
tal and  vision  benefits  and  retroactive  re- 
imbursements for  all  dental  and  vision 
claims  dating  from  May  9,  1996.  The 
tentative  settlement  which  would  be  effec- 
tive through  July  1 ,  1 999,  would  also  pro- 
vide some  discretionary  monies  and  in- 
crease job  security. 


Union  President  to  Visit  Campus  Sept.  Ninth 

UUP  President  William  Scheuerman  will  visit  the  campus  Tuesday,  Sept.  9th 
to  discuss  the  proposed  four-year  contract  settlement  and  answer  any  questions 
local  UUP  members  have  about  terms  of  the  agreement.  All  employees  are  invited 
to  attend  the  discussion  that  will  be  held  at  4:30  p.m.  in  the  Warren  Ballrooms, 
Angell  College  Center. 


[8] 


Faculty/Staff  Donate  $144,026  to  Campaign 


Plattsburgh  State  faculty  and  staff  donated 
$144,026  to  the  Plattsburgh  College  Foundation  dur- 
ing the  1996-97  fiscal  year,  which  ended  on  June  30. 

More  than  395  faculty/staff  participated  in  the 
program,  for  an  average  gift  of  $175.  The  overall 
figures  include  a  bequest  of  $75,000  from  the  estate  of 
the  late  Craig  A.  Koste  '69,  library  clerk. 

While  some  gifts  were  designated  for  particular 
purposes,  most  of  the  money  donated  by  faculty/staff 


will  be  used  for  student  aid.  The  foundation  will  be 
able  to  provide  nearly  700  students  with  a  total  of 
almost  half  a  million  dollars  in  aid  for  the  upcoming 
year. 

"For  many  of  those  students,  it  means  the  differ- 
ence between  continuing  their  education  here  at  Platts- 
burgh State  or  not.  Unfortunately,  we  still  aren't  able 
to  help  every  student  who  qualifies,"  noted  Don  Garrant, 
executive  director  of  the  Foundation. 


1996-97  Faculty/Staff  Honor  Roll 


Please  Note:  While  we  try  our  best  to  ensure  a  correct  listing,  mistakes  sometimes  occur.  If  your  name  is  misspelled,  missing  or  listed 
incorrectly  in  the  wrong  category,  please  contact  the  Office  of  College  Relations  (564-2090). 


Dr.  Edward  E.  Redcay  Society  ($2,500+) 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  R.  Homburger  75 
Craig  A.  Koste  '69  (Estate) 

E.  Glenn  Giltz  Society  ($l,000-$2,499) 

Dr.  Marilyn  A.  Chase 

Dr.  Nancy  J.  Church 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  James  C  Dawson 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Wallace  Feldman 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  L.  Garrant  '57 

Drs.  Denton  &  Carrie  Harris 

Cheryl  M.  Hogle  '68 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Horace  A.  Judson 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frederick  R.  (Michele)  Little  79/77 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Peter  P.  Luguri  73/77 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  E.  Thomas  Moran  '69/'69 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Lawrence  C.  Shaffer  '68/'87 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  H.  (Carolee)  Smith  /'86 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stanley  R.  Supinski  78 

President's  Club  ($500-$999) 

Gretchen  Crawford  Beebe 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Mark  A.  Christiansen  '69/75 

Dr.  Peter  L.  Conrad  &  Janice  Marchut  Conrad 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Raymond  A.  Domenico 

Dr.  Raymond  M.  Guydosh 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Roger  P.  Hamernik 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Mark  E.  Kaiser  /'83 

Dr.  William  E.  Krueger/Suzy  Johnson 

Clara  C.  LaRose 

Albert  N.  Mihalek  75 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  J.  Miller 

Dr.  David  N.  Mowry 

Drs.  Eldridge  W.  &  Mary  L.  Roark,  Jr. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  (Rose)  Robinson  '95 

Cerise  Oberman  &  Dr.  Laurence  E.  Soroka 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  (Susan)  Spissinger 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Keith  D.  Tyo 

Harriette  L.  Walker 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Roger  (Diane)  Wright 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  (Diane)  Wyand 


Dean's  Club  ($250-$499) 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  (Janet)  Alexander  '57/'61 

Dr.  Virginia  L.  Barker 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Terry  (Kathleen)  Chilton 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Leon  H.  Clodgo 

Dr.  Ernest  M.  Coons 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  William  W.  (Carmen)  Culver  /'74 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Wayne  A.  Duprey  '84 

Lonnie  R.  Fairchild 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  J.  Higgins  76 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  J.  Higgins  '83/'85 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  D.  Hofer 

William  D.  Laundry 

Thelma  A.  Lyon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  Frank  Mercadante  77 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  John  R.  Moravek 
Marilyn  Morton 
Richard  H.  Robbins 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  L.  (Zoanne)  Schnell  70/70 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Douglas  R.  (Evelyne)  Skopp 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  P.  Tesoriere 

Michael  J.  Walsh  76  &  Brigid  Shea  e77 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Leon  A.  (Marie)  Winterkorn  '68/'58 

Anonymous  (1) 

Anniversary  Club  ($108-$249) 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Kenneth  B.  Adams  77/70 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Francis  R.  Barber 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  J.  Richard  (Janice)  Beach  /'82 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Norman  (Catherine)  Blaine 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  B.  Boas  77 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  J.  (Betty)  Bogucki 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Timothy  A.  (Gina)  Bond  '89 

Erwin  L.  Bornstein 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  V.  (Jeanette)  Bortnick  /'91 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Gary  G.  Brannigan 
Robin  J.  Brown 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Lanny  (Linda)  Bruno 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  W.  (Bonnie)  Burdo 
Carol  L.  Burnam 
Leda  F.  Bushey 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  C.  Carlsen  '66/'68 


Mr.  &  Mrs.  Craig  (Martha)  Cashman 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  L.  (Lori)  Christopherson 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  H.  Lawrence  Cowan 

Dr.  James  J.  Csipak  &  Dr.  Lise  A.  Heroux 

Suzanne  L.  Daley  '80 

Mary  Ann  Dee 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Stewart  A.  Denenberg 

Sharon  L.  Derr  '90 

Laurie  A.  Dumont 

Jeanne  C.  Duprey 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Peter  J.  Ensel  '80/ '81 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Malcolm  Fairweather 

Helga  Dore  Flatt 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Clark  M.  Foster 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kirk  M.  Fraser  '87 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Prem  P.  (Aruna)  Gandhi 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Henry  L.  Goldenberg  /'90 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  A.  Harsh 

Timothy  C.  Hartnett  '82 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Roger  L.  Heintz 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jerry  (Holly  Heller)  Ross  '84 

Carla  A.  Hendrix 

Dr.  Patricia  J.  Higgins 

Nancy  J.  Hoshlyk 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Scott  R.  (Carol)  Johnson  79 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Jin  Keon  Kim 
M.  Daphne  Kutzer 
Margaret  R.  La  Ware 
Alan  R.  Lessler 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Charles  J.  (Carla)  List 
Judith  Manion  76 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Martin  D.  (Peg)  Mannix  '64/'88 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stephen  P.  (Cori  Jackson)  Matthews  '90 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  C.  (Susan)  Mayette 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Rob  tfanet)  McDowell  74 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Matthew  R.  Merrens 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  A.  Miranda 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  (Cathy)  Moulton  79 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  (Sandra)  Murphy 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  C.  Victor  Ovalle  77 

Beverly  B.  Peryer  '69 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gary  R.  (Janice)  Ryan  72 

Arlene  Sabo 


[9] 


Dr.  Bonnie  Seidel-Rogol 

Lynne  Soine 

Judy  A.  Sorrell 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  R.  Tabor 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Nathan  (Debra)  Thomas  '91 

Diane  M.  Trombly 

Ms.  Donna  A.  Turner  71 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Christopher  P.  (Karen)  Waterbury  /'87 
Esther  Westendorf 
Lizabeth  J.  Woodard 

Other  Gifts 

Ms.  Diana  M.  Akey  '84 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  (Madeleine)  Ambrose  '64 

Mr.  Christopher  J.  Balducci  '93 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ronald  (Leith)  Bardon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Bernard  C.  Bassett  '86 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Mark  David  Beatham 

Sharron  L.  Belanger 

Donna  Bell 

Ona  B.  Belser  '84 

Mr.  Daniel  P.  Bennett  '96 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  J.  (Jeanne)  Bennink  71/71 

Eileen  E.  Benton 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Patrick  (Colleen)  Bernard 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  C.  Berry  '86/'87 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  P.  (Karen)  Bisso  '83/'83 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  C.  Bodenrader 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Christopher  H.  (Sara  (Sally))  Booth  /'52 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Lawrence  (Rebecca)  Bosley  '80 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  R.  (Mrs)  Brohel  /'85 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gordon  J.  Burdo  71 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  (Lillian)  Cassidy 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Cavanaugh  '84 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Marcel  (Judith)  Charland  '64 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  J.  Coffey  '67 

Stephanie  D.  Cook  '93 

Donna  Corodimas 

Dr.  Peter  N.  Corodimas 

Beverly  B.  Cross 

Dr.  Philip  R.  DeVita 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Brian  Dermody 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  (Cheryl)  Dodds  75 

Mary  M.  Dossin 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Eugene  (Anne  Marie)  DuBrey  '82 

Dr.  Peter  Edwards 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  W.  Raney  Ellis  /'82 

Jeanne  Ellsworth 

Mr.  Robert  D.  Emery  '90 

Jennifer  Luise  Erickson  '94 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  (Shirley)  Farrell  '69 

Mr.  James  W.  Fezette 

Marlene  E.  Fields 

Diane  C.  Fine 

Mr.  Oscar  A.  Flores 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ronald  (Avis)  Foster  '80 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Scott  (Carol)  Frome  '87 

Mr.  Robert  D.  Fuller 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Lawrence  L.  Giandomenico 

Mary  Ellen  Gillespie  '94 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Roderic  G.  (Dodie)  Giltz  /74 

JoAnn  K.  Gordon 

Elizabeth  McCleary  Gorevic  '94 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jon  S.  (Marcia)  Gottschall 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  J.  Grady  72 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Douglas  A.  Graham 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  (Bonnie)  Gregware  '84 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ripudaman  (Padmini)  Gulati 

Dr.  C.  Leon  Harris 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kenneth  B.  (Patricia)  Harrison  73/73 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Bryan  G.  Hartman  '88 
Pat  Hoffmann  '84 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  (Ann)  Holland  76 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kevin  J.  Houle 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Warner  Houth 


Jocile  Anne  Irwin  77 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  J.  Janetti  /'75 

Mr.  Young  Sik  Jang 

Sara  K.  Johns 

Virginia  M.  Johnson 

Dr.  Robert  D.  Keever 

Mr.  William  R.  Kelting 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  (Jean)  Kibler  '81 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  J.  (Kathleen)  Kiernan  73 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  (Brenda)  Kramer 

Kenna  L.  LaPorte  '90 

Mr.  Richard  Lagiewski 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gary  Alan  (Sandra)  Latourelle  '61/70 
Jean  M.  LeClair 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Darrell  G.  ()  Leavitt  73/71 
Elizabeth  M.  Lennon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  (Theresa)  Leonard  '87 

Dr.  Stephen  Light 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kenneth  W.  Loach 

Mr.  William  J.  Long 

Dr.  Martin  Lubin 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Nicholas  J.  (Jeannette)  Mammano  /'92 

Cheryl  A.  Marshall  '87 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  (Arlene)  Mason  '90 

Beryl  Matthews 

Iris  Mclean 

Mr.  Reginald  D.  Mesec 

Mr.  Brian  K.  Micheels  '90 

Mary  Michelfelder  79 

Ms.  Linda  L.  Mitchell  '90 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Henry  C.  Morlock 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  J.  Morrissey  /'82 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  W.  (Bonnie)  Myers  '67/ '87 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  (Candace)  Noel 

M.  Elizabeth  O'Leary 

Carolyn  G.  Payne  '94 

Mr.  Chris  S.  Peroza  '93 

Elizabeth  Petrick-Steward 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  (Anne)  Petro  '86 

Elizabeth  Poitras 

Rachel  L.  Pollow  70 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  (Pauline)  Premore  '69 

Dianne  B.  Rabideau 

Dorothee  Racette  '95 

Doris  A.  Rible  '88 

Sara  Richman  '87 

Dr.  Thomas  A.  Rumney 

Jeanne  P.  Ryan 

Mr.  Matthew  Salvatore 

Mr.  Neal  F.  Sand 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Roger  K.  Sandwick 

Dr.  Jennifer  R.  Scanlon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gerald  (Dianna)  Seymour 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Sitaram  Shastry 

Carol  Shuttleworth 

Mr.  Scott  R.  Slade 

Phoebe  A.  Sturm 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  (Arlene)  Sypek 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  P.  Szydlik 
Mr.  Gary  M.  Tamer 
Cynthia  J.  Taylor 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Raymond  P.  Thoren  (In  Memory) 

Pilar  Tirado 

Jaimie  Trautman  '69 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  J.  (Linda)  Venne  79 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Dennis  (Lisa)  Vicencio  '86 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  F.  Daniel  Vogt 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Stuart  F.  Voss 

Julia  M.  Whelden  '86 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Brian  E.  (Beth)  White  '92/'88 

Jennifer  Ellen  Wiseman  '95 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  P.  Withington 

Mr.  John  P  Zadrozny  '92 

Ms.  Krista  A.  Zinser  '92 

Anonymous  (1) 


1996-97 F acuity 
Emeriti  Honor  Roll 


E.  Glenn  Giltz  Society  (S^OOO-S^^ 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Lawrence  C.  Arcarese  '65/ '62 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Albert  M.  Hassler  '67 

Dr.  James  M.  Johnson 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Merritt  F.  (Joan)  Spear 

President's  Club  ($500-$999) 
Olive  M.  Flynt  '41 
Willard  C.  Flynt 

Drs.  Richard  &  Annette  Manganel 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  (Suzanne)  Sokolowski 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Nicholas  Troisi 
Anonymous  (1) 

Dean's  Club  ($250-$499) 

Mr.  John  D.  Calkins 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gordon  G.  DeVries  79 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  John  T.  Goldthwait 

Dr.  Ernest  Rangazas 

Dr.  Venice  Sakell 

Anniversary  Club  ($108-$249) 
Erwin  Beyer 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  James  S.  Ashe 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Edgar  G.  Barton  '52 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Ralph  &  Patricia  Clark 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gerald  H.  Dominy  /'47 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  R.  (Charlotte)  Donaldson 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Ralph  N.  Grover  '43/ '43 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Hilton  P.  Heming  '44 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  Jastrab 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  M.  Keeler  '54 

Sherwood  J.  Keyser  '80 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Karl  R.  Kramer 

Col.&  Mrs.  Robert  Moll 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  David  F.  (Wendy)  Robertson  /'64 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stephen  J.  Shemet  '38 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Warren  Slocum 

Phyllis  L.  Wells 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  G.  Woltjen 

Other  Gifts 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  J.  Derek  Allan 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Stuart  J.  Baum  /'64 

Dr.  Caridad  P.  Buncab 

Carolyn  W.  Burakowski  '80 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Maurice  B.  Camp  '40 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Walter  (Mary)  Church  '43 

Mr.  Philip  B.  Clarkson 

Dr.  Jeanette  C.  Coleman 

Dr.  Herman  H.  Doh 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  W.  Raney  ()  Ellis  /'82 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  (Jane)  Hamilton  '50 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  H.  Holland  /'57 

Clara  Johnson 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  E.  (Norma)  Loughan  '60 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  James  R.  Mapstone  /'78 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  P.  (Marie)  McGrath  '41 

Mr.  Howard  C  Miller 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Raymond  Peterson 

Mary  Anne  Poston  '53 

Mr.  Donald  F.  Ryan 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Walter  E.  (Eileen)  Wardner  '42 


[10] 


cif] 


SPOTLIGHT 


Dr.  Kenneth  Adams 
Dr.  Richard  Bernardi 
David  Bean 
Dr.  James  Coffey 
Carome  Frome 
Daniel  Gordon 


Dr.  Kenneth  Adams,  professor  of  ecol- 
ogy in  the  Center  for  Earth  and  Environmen- 
tal Science,  has  been 
elected  to  the  Board  of 
Trustees  of  the 
Adirondack  Nature  Con- 
servancy and  the 
Adirondack  Land  Trust. 
Adams  is  an  expert  on 
ecological  restoration  and 
pine  barrens  ecology.  The 
board  is  developing  long-term  conservation 
strategies  for  ecological  regions,  land  acqui- 
sition and  habitat  care. 

Dr.  Richard  Bernardi.  associate  pro- 
fessor of  accounting,  and  David  Bean,  as- 


Adams 


Bernardi 


Bean 


sistant  professor  of  accounting,  presented  a 
paper  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  American 
Accounting  Association,  August  18-20,  in 
Dallas,  TX.  The  paper  is  entitled,  "Preparers 
Versus  Users  Introductory  Sequence:  The 
Impact  on  Performance  in  Intermediate  Ac- 
counting I." 


Coffey 


Frome 


Dr.  James  Coffey,  associate  professor 
of  accounting  in  the  School  of  Business  and 
Economics,  has  co- 
authored  an  article  en- 
titled, "Personal  Liability 
of  Corporate  Officers 
Under  CERCLA:  Twenty 
Questions  and  Answers." 
It  has  been  reviewed  and 
will  be  published  in  the 
New  York  Bar  Journal  this 
fall. 

Carol  Frome,  coordinator  of  the  Claude 
J.  Clarke  Learning  Center  and  instructor  in 
English,  has  had  several 
poems  accepted  for  pub- 
lication in  the  forthcom- 
ing issues  of  Oval  Maga- 
zine. Frome  will  also  be 
the  featured  poet  on  the 
cover  of  and  in  the  pre- 
mier issue  of  American 
Poetry  Monthly. 
Daniel  Gordon,  assistant  professor  of 
music,  will  present  a  paper  at  the  Eleventh 
World  Saxophone  Con- 
gress in  Valencia,  Spain 
at  the  end  of  September. 
The  paper,  "Origins  and 
Early  History  of  the  Ibert 
Concertino,"  explores  the 
musical  and  personal  fac- 
tors influencing  French 
composer  Jacques  Ibert 
when  he  wrote  this  major  work  in  the  saxo- 
phone repertory  in  1935.  Included  are  pro- 
grams and  reviews  documenting  early  per- 
formances of  the  work,  which  Gordon 
found  in  archives  in  Spain,  Switzerland,  and 
France.  He  will  present  the  paper  in  English, 
French,  and  Spanish.  The  presentation  is 
made  possible  with  funding  from  the  Music 
Program,  Canadian  and  Interna- 
tional Studies,  and  the  Office  of  the 
Dean  of  Arts  and  Science. 


Gordon 


Hi 


Howells 


To  Give  Lecture  Sept.  16 

Coral  Howells:  Famed 
Atwood  Expert  Visits 
Plattsburgh  State 


Coral  Howells,  pro- 
fessor of  English  and  Ca- 
nadian Literature  at  the 
University  of  Reading, 
England,  will  be  visiting 
Plattsburgh  State  Sept.  4  - 
21  as  the  first  Hiram 
Walker  Canadian  Studies 
Scholar.  Her  visit  is  be 
funded  through  a  grant  to  the  Center  for  the 
Study  of  Canada  from  Hiram  Walker. 

One  of  the  world's  leading  experts  on 
famed  Canadian  poet,  novelist  and  critic 
Margaret  Atwood,  Howells  is  the  first 
woman  president  of  the  British  Association 
for  Canadian  Studies.  She  has  written  exten- 
sively on  other  Canadian  women  authors 
and  women's  fiction  in  addition  to  several 
books  and  articles  on  Atwood. 

She  has  been  a  visiting  professor  of 
Canadian  literature  at  various  colleges  and 
universities  in  India,  the  Netherlands,  Sic- 
ily, Hungary,  and  Luxembourg.  Howells 
will  teach  a  two-week  segment  on  Atwood 
in  Dr.  Bruce  Butterfield's  English-Cana- 
dian Literature  course  and  will  meet  with 
students  in  Canadian  Studies,  the  Honors 
Program  and  the  English  Department. 

She  will  also  give  a  public  lecture  on 
"Margaret  Atwood' s  Gothic  Designs"  on 
Tuesday,  September  16,  at  4: 15  p.m.  in  the 
Cardinal  Lounge  of  the  Angell  College  Cen- 
ter. The  lectured  is  being  co-sponsored  by 
the  Center  for  the  Study  of  Canada,  Women' s 
Studies  Program  and  English  Department. 


Raymond  Thoren,  Assistant  Accounting  Professor  Dies  at  Age  62 


Raymond  Thoren,  assistant  professor  of  accounting  in  the 
School  of  Business  and  Economics  at  Platts- 
burgh State,  died  June  23  after  a  lengthy  ill- 
ness. 

Thoren  joined  the  Plattsburgh  State  fac- 
ulty in  1978  and  served  as  coordinator  of  the 
department  for  five  years,  then  chaired  the 
department  from  1987  until  1993.  He  also 
administered  the  Plattsburgh  Air  Force  Base 
Internship  Program  for  many  years. 


Thoren 


Known  as  an  outstanding  teacher,  Thoren  received  the  Fouad 
El  Taher  "Excellence  in  Instruction  Award"  in  1992.  He  will  be 
remembered  by  many  of  his  students  for  a  program  he  developed 
through  which  he  arranged  job  interviews  for  students  and  took 
them  to  New  York  City  and  Boston  for  those  interviews. 

He  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Carol,  three  daughters,  four 
grandchildren,  three  sisters  and  a  brother.  The  Raymond  P. 
Thoren  Endowed  Scholarship  Fund  has  been  created  to  provide 
scholarships  to  accounting  majors  in  the  School  of  Business  and 
Economics  through  the  Plattsburgh  College  Foundation. 


[11] 


Cardinal  Sports 


Men's  Soccer  Team  Readies  for  Pepsi  Classic  Sept.  6-7 


After  three  trips  to  the  NCAA  tourna- 
ment, two  Eastern  Collegiate  Athletic  Con- 
ference Tournament  appearances  including 
an  EC  AC  Championship  in  1996,  and  two 
State  University  of  New  York  Athletic  Con- 
ference titles  in  the  past  five  years,  the  e 
men's  soccer  team  has  placed  itself  among 
the  nation's  soccer  elite.  In  1997,  the  Cardi- 
nals return  a  strong  team  ready  to  continue 
the  Cardinal  soccer  winning  tradition. 

The  1 997  Cardinals  open  their  schedule 
at  home  in  the  Pepsi  Cardinal  Classic  Satur- 
day, Sept.  6.  Pittsburgh  faces  Southern 
Maine  at  12:00  p.m.  and  Staten  Island  plays 
St.  John  Fisher  at  4:00  p.m.  The  Pepsi 
Cardinal  Classic  continues  on  Sunday,  Sept. 
7,  with  the  consolation  at  1:00  p.m.  and  the 
championship  game  set  for  3:00  p.m. 

It  was  a  record  breaking  season  in  1996 
as  the  Cardinals  scored  a  school  record  of  80 
goals  in  20  games.  Despite  losing  their  top 
two  scorers  to  graduation,  the  Cardinals  look 
to  be  potent  once  again  in  the  offensive  third. 

Junior  Chris  Gondek  of  Chazy,  has  al- 
ready moved  into  eighth  place  on  the  all- 
time  Cardinal  scoring  list  with  53  points  in 
his  first  two  seasons.  The  1996  ECAC 
Tournament  MVP,  junior  tri-captain  Dan 
Corbett  of  Oswego  came  on  strong  at  midfield 
last  season,  finishing  with  12  points.  Junior 
Dan  Ciolek  from  Ithaca,  a  division  I  transfer 


from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Buffalo  and 
Mid-Continent 
Conference 
Rookie  of  the  Year  in  1995,  is  expected  to 
make  an  immediate  impact. 

Juniors  Phil  Lombardo  of  Holtsville, 
Kevin  Riddleberger  of  Endicott,  and  Mike 
Paolini  of  Liverpool  return  at  midfield  for 
the  Cardinals.  Lombardo  finished  third  in 
scoring  last  season  with  20  points  and  Paolini 
proved  to  be  a  goal  scoring  threat  with  seven 
goals  after  his  move  from 
the  backfield  to  midfield. 
Riddleberger' s  fiesty 
playmaking  ability  will 
once  again  be  counted 
on  offensively  and  de- 
fensively. Freshman 
Eddie  Eck  from  Sachem, 
Sachem  High  School's 
MVP  in  1996,  has  shown 
good  speed  and  strength 
in  pre-season  and  should 
make  an  impact  in  his 
first  season  as  a  Cardi- 
nal. 

Despite  the  gradua- 
tion of  All-Region  and 
All-SUNYAC  back  Shea 
Greene,  the  Cardinals 


return  a  veteran  defense.  Junior  David  Corker 
from  Commack  will  provide  solid  marking 
in  the  back.  He  displayed  good  playmaking 
ability  last  season  with  six  assists.  Senior  tri- 
captain  Pat  McMahon  from  Scottsville  re- 
ceived All-SUNYAC  honors  last  season  for 
his  play  at  sweeper. 

Junior  Andy  Cumbo  from  Fairport  has 
started  every  game  but  one  since  his  arrival 
in  1995,  registering  14  career  shutouts. 
Freshman  Mike  Kuznia  of  Brewerton,  will 
compete  for  time  in  the  goal. 


The  Men's  Soccer  Team  will  open  their  season  Saturday,  Sept.  6 
against  Southern  Maine  in  the  Pepsi  Cardinal  Classic. 


Women's  Soccer  Team  Opens  Against  Hartwick  College  This  Weekend 


PREVIEW 


After  seven 
straight  winning 
seasons  and  seven 
consecutive  post- 
season appearances  including  the  1996 
NYSWCAA  title,  the  Cardinals  enter  the 
1997  season  with  the  confidence  and  expe- 
rience, to  continue  this  winning  tradition. 

The  1997  Cardinals  open  their  schedule 
at  home  against  Hartwick  on  Saturday,  Sept. 
6,  at  2:00  p.m.  The  following  weekend,  the 
Lady  Cardinals  will  hosts  the  Pepsi  Cardinal 
Classic  with  Plattsburgh  facing  Elmira  at 
1 2:00  p.m.  and  Keene  (NH)  playing  Johnson 
(VT)  at 4:00 p.m.  on  Saturday,  Sept.  13.  The 
Pepsi  Cardinal  Classic  continues  on  Sun- 
day, Sept.  14,  with  Johnson  facing  Elmira  at 
1 :00  p.m.  and  Plattsburgh  playing  Keene  at 
3:00  p.m. 

With  the  game  tying  goal  that  sent  the 
game  into  overtime  in  last  season's  state 
championship  win  over  Nazareth,  junior 
Jamie  Retersdorf  of  Gloversville  returns  as 


one  of  the  Cardinal  top  scoring  threats. 
Retersdorf  was  the  top  goal  scorer  last  sea- 
son with  eight  goals.  Junior  Karen  Perrotta 
from  Carmel  returns  after  missing  last  sea- 
son with  an  injury.  Junior  transfer  Jill 
Hubrightfrom  Williamsville  is  alsoexpected 
to  contribute  at  forward. 

The  Cardinals  will  be  particularly  deep 
at  midfield  this  season.  Senior  captain  Car- 
rie Rose  of  Waddington  is  Plattsburgh' s 
second  top  returning  scorer.  Last  season, 
Rose  tallied  four  goals  including  two  game 
winners  and  four  assists  and  was  selected  to 
the  1 996  Pepsi  Cardinal  Classic  All-Tourna- 
ment team.  Junior  Jennifer  Jury  from 
Chittenango  was  Plattsburgh' s  other  hero  in 
the  state  final,  scoring  the  game  winning 
goal  in  the  first  overtime  to  defeat  Nazareth 
2- 1 .  Freshmen  Cathy  Cappetta,  Spencerport 
High  School's  1996-97  Academic  Athlete 
of  the  Year,  and  Shanna  Saunders,  an  All- 
Greater  Rochester  player,  should  impact 
immediately.  Keri  Honors  of  Kirkvillc  and 

[12] 


an  All- American  junior  transfer  from  Keuka 
College  tops  the  list  of  newcomers  for  the 
Cardinals 

Junior  captain  Jessica  Allen  of  Buffalo 
once  again  returns  in  top  form  after  starting 
all  41  games  since  her  arrival  in  Plattsburgh 
in  1995.  A 1 996  GTE  Academic  AJ1-  Ameri- 
can, All-State,  and  All-SUNYAC  player, 
Allen  will  anchor  the  Cardinal  defense  at  the 
sweeper  position.  Junior  Erika  Wood  of 
Rochester  is  in  top  form  and  will  add  good 
ball  skills  and  a  long  throw-in.  while  juniors 
Renee  Lucier  of  Troy  and  Maura  Clavering 
from  Dix  Hills  have  proven  to  be  consistent 
yet  tenacious  defenders. 

The  Cardinals  will  be  strong  in  net  with 
senior  Amy  Flick  from  Cadyville  and  junior 
Erin  Shaw  of  Rochester  competing  for  the 
number  one  spot.  Shaw  appeared  in 
Plattsburgh' s  NCAA  Tournament  game 
against  Williams  College  in  1995.  That 
season,  Flick  and  Shaw  combined  for  a  total 
of  13  shoutouts  last  season,  a  school  record. 


focus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 

September  5-17 
Unless  otherwise  noted,  alt  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public 


Friday,  September  5 

4  p.m.  —  Omicron  Delta  Kappa  meeting 
of  the  membership.  Angell  Center  Pitts- 
burgh Room. 

4p.m.— Trail  Ride  through  RugarWoods, 
led  by  Public  Safety  Officer  Seth  Silver 
and  Pittsburgh  State  Student  Bob  Bour- 
geois. Mountain  bikes  and  bike  helmets 
are  strongly  recommended.  Departs  from 
the  Angel!  College  Center. 

5  p.m. — Alpha  Phi  Omega  weekly  meet- 
ing. Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Open  Mic  Program  hosted  by 
Pittsburgh  State  Student  Brooke  Babbie. 
Java  Jo's,  Angell  College  Center. 


Saturday,  September  6 

9  a.m.-5:30  p.m.  —  Bus  to  Montreal, 
sponsored  by  Campus  Life.  Tickets:  $10 
round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center 
Desk  Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Cen- 
ter, Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

12  p.m.  —  Men's  Soccer  Pepsi  Cardinal 
Classic  —  Pittsburgh  vs.  Southern 
Maine,  at  12pm  and  Staten  Island  vs. 
John  Fisher  at  4pm.  Pittsburgh  State 
Field  House. 

1  p.m.  —  Trip  to  Ausable  Chasm.  Tick- 
ets: $6  SA  Members,  includes  round  trip 
bus  transportation,  walking  tour  and  raft 
ride,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar 
Street  pull-off. 

2  p.m.  —  Women's  Soccer  Game  — 
Pittsburgh  State  vs.  Hartwick.  Pitts- 
burgh State  Field  House. 

9  p.m.  —  Hypnotist  Mike  Blaine  spon- 
sored by  the  Opening  Week  Committee. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 


Sunday,  September  7 

11  a.m.  —  Pok-a-Moonshine  Guided 
Hike,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Associa- 
tion. Tickets:  $5  SA  Members,  on  sale  at 
the  Angell  Center  Desk,  includes  round 
trip  bus  transportation.  Bus  departs  from 
the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

1  p.m.  —  Men's  Soccer  Pepsi  Cardinal 
Classic:  Consolation  1pm  and  Champi- 
onship 3pm.  Pittsburgh  State  Field 
House. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meting 
Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at 
the  Movies  Series  presents  Donnie 
Brasco,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Asso- 
ciation. Tickets:  $1  SA  Members  or  Movie 
Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angel  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 


Monday,  September  8 

7  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

7:30  p.m.  —  Campus  Poets  Series  pre- 
sents Ronald  Meseck,  sponsored  by  the 
Foreign  Language  and  Literature  Depart- 
ment and  the  Faculty  of  Arts  and  Science. 
Newman  Center,  90  Broad  Street. 

8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Tuesday,  September  9 

11  a.m.-1  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pres- 
sure/Weilness  Clinic  for  all  campus  em- 
ployees sponsored  by  the  EAP  and  De- 
partment of  Nursing.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe 
410. 

4  p.m.  — Women's  Tennis  vs.  Clarkson 
University.  Pittsburgh  State  Field  House 
Courts. 


4  p.m.  —  Presentation  on  the  UUP  Con- 
tract with  featured  speaker  President  Bill 
Scheuerman.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ball- 
rooms. 

7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 
Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Ac- 
countants (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

Wednesday,  September  10 

7  p.m.  —  Student  Forum  on  Raising  the 
SA  Fee,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Asso- 
ciation. Angell  Center  Pittsburgh  Room. 


Thursday,  September  11 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies 
Forum  presents  Arlene  Sabo,  Assistant 
Director  of  Public  Safety  and  Officer  Pe- 
ter Zelinski,  Pittsburgh  Police  Dept. 
speaking  on  "Drugs  and  Rape."  Spon- 
sored by  the  Women's  Studies  Program, 
with  support  fro  CAS.  Angell  Center  Car- 
dinal Lounge. 


2-3  p.m.  —  Study  Abroad  Informational 
meeting,  sponsored  by  International  Pro- 
grams. Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 


Friday,  September  12 

4  p.m. — Welcome  Back  Reception  spon- 
sored by  AKEBA.  Angell  Center  Pitts- 
burgh Room. 

5  p.m. —Alpha  Phi  Omega  weekly  meet- 
ing. Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

6  p.m.  —  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellow- 
ship large  group  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Pittsburgh  Room. 


Saturday,  September  13 

11  am.  —  Men's  and  Women's  Cross 
Country  Cardinal  Classic.  Pittsburgh 
State  Field  House, 

12  pm  —  Women's  Soccer  Cardinal 
Classic:  Plattsburgh  vs.  Eimira  at  12pm 
and  Keene  vs.  Johnson  at  4pm.  Platts- 
burgh State  Field  House. 

2  pm.  —  Men's  Soccer  vs.  Nazareth. 
Plattsburgh  State  Field  House. 


Sunday,  September  14 

1  p.m. — Women's  Soccer  Cardinal  Clas- 
sic: Johnson  vs  Eimira  at  1  pm  and  Keene 
vs.  Plattsburgh  at  3pm  Plattsburgh  State 
Field  House. 


6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meting 
Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at 
the  Movies  Series  presents  Selena,  spon- 
sored by  the  Student  Association.  Tick- 
ets: $1  SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on 
sale  at  the  Angel  Center  Desk.  Angell 
Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 


Monday,  September  15 

1 0  a.m. -3  p.m.  —  US  Marine  Corps  infor- 
mation table  sponsored  by  the  Career 
Services  Center.  Angell  Center  Lobby. 

7  pm.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 


8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room 

Tuesday,  September  16 

9-9:50  a.m.  —  Study  Abroad  Informa- 
tional meeting,  sponsored  by  Interna- 
tional Programs.  Angell  Center  Cardinal 
Lounge. 

11  a.m  -1  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pres- 
sure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus  em- 
ployees sponsored  by  the  EAP  and  De- 
partment of  Nursing.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe 
410 

12:15  p.m.  — The  Wellness  Series  pre- 
sents Dr.  Kathleen  Camelo  and  the  Stu- 
dent Health  Center  Staff  speaking  on 
"Let's  Talk  About  Sex  1  Angell  Center 
Amnesty  Room. 

4: 1 5  -  5:1 5  p.m.  —  Coral  Howells  the  first 
Hiram  Walker  Canadian  Studies  Scholar, 
speaking  on  "Margaret  Atwood's  Gothic 
Designs.'  Co-sponsored  by  Center  for 
the  Study  of  Canada,  Women's  Studies 
Program  and  English  Department.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 
Room. 

7  p.m.  —  institute  of  Management  Ac- 
countants (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Women's  Volleyball  vs.  St. 
Michael's,  Plattsburgh  State  Field  House. 

7:30  p.m.  —  Visual  Artist  Series  spon 
sored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 


Wednesday,  September  17 

4:30  p.m.  —  New  Faculty  Program  and 
Reception,  sponsored  by  Omicron  Delta 
Kappa  Honor  Society.  Angell  Center  Car- 
dinal Lounge. 

6:30  p.m.  —  SBE  Career  Launcher,  spon- 
sored by  the  School  of  Business  and 
Economics  Open  to  members  only. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 


Sept.  16  Art  Symposium  in  Connection  with  Exhibit 


Jerome  Witkin,  "Unseen  and  Unheard,"  (In  Memory  of  all  Victims  of 
Torture),  oil  on  linen,  63"  x  75 


In  conjunction  with  the  "Psychologically  Charged,'"  exhibition  which  is  currently 
on  display  in  the  Burke  and  the  Rockwell  Kent  Galleries  at  Plattsburgh  State,  the 
Visual  Artist  Series  will  host  a  forum  on  contemporary  figurative  art.  Tuesday.  Sept. 
16 

'  Issues  in  Contemporary  Figurative  Art  Symposium  will  feature  four  interna- 
tionally known  figurative  artists:  Sigmund  Abeles,  Gregory  Gillespie,  Paul  Matthews 
and  Jerome  Witkin.  Work  by  all  four  artists  is  part  of  the  show  that  is  on  exhibit 
until  Oct.  19 

These  four  artists  represent  an  aspect  of  figuration  which  artist  Frank  Owen  has 
called  psychologically-charged  n  They  have  been  described  as  among  the  major 
realists  in  late  20th  century  art  even  though  the  artists  have  characterized  them- 
selves as  artists  who  use  figurative  imagery  for  narrative  and  associated  ends. 

Students  and  faculty  will  have  the  opportunity  to  speak  with  the  artists  in  the 
Burke  Gallery  at  a  2:30  p.m.  informal  discussion  of  works  in  the  exhibition.  There  will 
be  a  public  reception  for  symposium  participants  at  5  p.m.  in  the  Burke  Gallery 
Lounge  and  a  public  symposium  in  the  Plattsburgh  Room  of  Angell  College  Center 
at  7:30  p.m.  A  slide  presentation  on  the  artists'  work  will  be  followed  by  a  discussion 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  SEPT.  18,  1997 


To  Bring  Virtual  Reality  to  Nursing  Education  Late  This  Year 

HT  Medical  and  Plattsburgh  State  Sign  Agreement 


Following  a  two-year,  multi-million  dollar  collaborative  re- 
search and  development  effort,  Plattsburgh  State  and  HT  Medical, 
Inc.,  a  world  leader  in  virtual  reality  medical  simulation,  have  signed 
an  agreement  to  bring  to  market  the  virtual  reality  intravenous 
infusion  simulator. 

This  simulator,  which  will  be  marketed  as  CathSim™,  will  train 
healthcare  providers  in  the  cognitive  and  motor  skills  associated 
with  performing  vascular  catheterization  prior  to  actual  patient 
contact. 

Virginia  Barker,  dean  of  the  faculty  of  Professional  Studies,  said, 
"The  present  methods  of  teaching  these  [venipuncture]  procedures 
are  inadequate.  The  faculty  looked  at  virtual  reality  and  thought  this 
was  the  way  that  we  could  help  students  to  develop  a  skill,  increase 
their  self-confidence,  and  have  consistency  of  presentation  at  all 
times... before  they  actually  go  to  a  patient  and  perform  the  proce- 
dure." 

The  prototype,  which  is  housed  in  the  Damianos  Nursing  Skills 
Laboratory  in  Hawkins  Hall  and  used  by  nursing  students,  was 
developed  with  supercomputer  hardware  and  sophisticated  software 
technology. 

Recent  advances  in  both  hardware  and  software  technology  now 
allow  CathSim  to  run  on  a  personal  computer,  which  makes  it  both 
affordable  and  accessible  to  a  variety  of  nursing  schools  and  training 


Students  at  universities  and  colleges  nationwide  will  soon  have  the  opportunity 
to  learn  how  to  perform  a  proper  venipuncture  when  CathSim  goes  to  market 
by  the  end  of  the  year.  Assistant  Professor  of  Nursing  David  Curry  watches  the 
monitor  as  Caroline  Allen  and  Gisele  Faubert  learn  to  maneveur  the  virtual 
cannula. 

facilities.  The  simulator  includes  a  force  feedback  input  device  that 
simulates  the  actual  feel  of  the  needle-stick  procedure.  Using  this 
"Virtual  Cannula"  input  device,  the  trainee  is  able  to  sense  the  tactile 
(See  "CathSim  by  Year  End"  on  Page  2) 


Plattsburgh  College  Foundation  Campaign  Raises  More  Than  $1  Million 


The  Foundation '  s  1 996-97  campaign  was 
the  third  most  successful  in  its  history  with 
$1,055,148  raised.  The  number  of  donors — 
7,237 —  was  the  Foundation's  best  year  in 
terms  of  individuals,  businesses  and  organi- 
zations who  contributed  to  the  various 
annual  giving  programs,  through  planned 
gifts,  and  to  the  endowment  fund. 

The  $1  million-plus  received  repre- 
sents a  16.5  percent  increase  ($148,250) 
over  last  year' s  appeal.  The  1 6.5  percent 
increase  exceeded  contributions  to  higher 
education  nationally,  which  were  up  12 
percent. 

Fifty-nine  percent  of  the  total  income 
($626,744)  was  raised  through  the  an- 
nual giving  campaign,  while  thirty  per- 


cent of  the  total  dollars  ($320,439)  came 
from  planned  gifts.  Giving  to  the  various 
annual  giving  campaigns  increased  by  32 
percent  over  fiscal  year  1995-96. 

Alumni  made  up  the  largest  pool  of  do- 

PLATTSBURGH  COLLEGE  FOUNDATION 
TOTAL  GIVING 


Campaign 

Annual  Giving 
Endowment  Giving 
Planned  Giving 
Giitz  Aud.  Project 
Louise  Norton  Project 

Total  Gift  Income 


1995-96 

$474,702 
$195,048 
$229,318 
$7,822 
0 


1996-97 

$626,745 
$103,375 
$320,439 
$1,608 
$2,973 


$906,890  $1,055,140 


nors.  A  record  number  of  5,307  alumni — 
478  more  donors  than  last  year — made  gifts 
totaling  $406,000  to  the  various  campaigns, 
as  bequests  or  to  establish  endowment  funds, 
and  to  special  giving  campaigns  and  two 
other  special  projects. 

Faculty  and  staff  (395)  gave  a  record 
$144,026,  including  a  $75,000  bequest 
from  the  estate  of  the  late  Craig  A.  Koste 
'69,  library  clerk. 

"Support  from  outside  the  college — 
from  our  business  community  and  com- 
munity friends — has  also  been  key  be- 
cause many  individuals,  businesses  and 
organizations  know  the  quality  of  educa- 
tion young  people  are  getting  at  Platts- 
(See  "Donors  Contribute"  on  Page  3) 


Have  a  Fun  Time  During  Family  Weekend  Sept.  26-28!!! 


Dean  Lavoie:  Support  of  Teaching,  Faculty  Development  Tops  Priorities 


Kathleen  Lavoie  says  she  feels  like  a 
transfer  student  since  assuming  the  position 
of  dean  of  arts  and  science  in  August. 

"I've  got  a  pretty  good  idea  of  what's 
going  on  without  learning  the  details,"  said 
Lavoie. 

In  general  she's  happy  with  the  move 
even  though  SUNY  has  come  under  attack 
the  past  couple  of  years.  "SUNY  still  has  a 
very  good  reputation,"  said  Lavoie.  "I  thought 
I  was  coming  here  at  a  good  time  because 
things  appeared  to  be  turning  around.  They '  ve 
actually  turned  out  better  than  I  had  hoped 
for." 

Students  are  getting  a  good  educational 
experience  and  she  has  taken  the  attitude  that 
"If  it  isn't  broke,  don't  fix  it,"  at  least  for  the 
next  six  months  to  a  year  as  she  becomes 
more  familiar  with  the  campus,  faculty  and 
students. 

But,  there  are  some  real  concerns  Lavoie 
said  she  wants  to  immediately  address,  if 
possible. 


response  of  needle  placement,  from  the  "pop" 
device  as  the  needle  enters  the  skin,  through 
entry  into  the  vein  lumen. 

"The  benefit  of  using  CathSim  in  com- 
parison to  the  models  that  were  used  in  the 
past  is  the  feeling  that  the  students  get  of 
actually  inserting  a  needle  into  the  skin  and 
the  vein,"  said  Gretchen  Beebe,  chairperson 
and  professor  of  nursing.  'The  software  and 
the  case  studies  that  are  presented  in  combi- 
nation with  the  simulation  provide  for  an 


She  wants  to  see  more  support  of  teaching 
and  faculty  development.  She  also  believes 
in  increased  attention  to  adjunct  faculty. 

"While  there  have  been  changes  in  evalu- 
ations of  adjunct  faculty,  I  am  also  interested 
in  rewards  and  recognition  for  our  adjuncts. 
We  should  also  make  sure  that  they  can 
develop  their  skills  and  get  recognized  for 
what  they  do." 

Lavoie  said  that  while  the  college  is  com- 
mitted to  raising  the  pay  of  part-time  faculty, 
she  is  also  looking  into  other  non-monetary 
efforts,  including  a  teaching  award  for  ad- 
junct faculty  and  better  communication  of 
information. 

The  faculty,  Lavoie  said,  "are  a  fine  group 
who  are  committed  to  their  teaching." 

The  dean  said  she's  innovative  in  her 
thinking  and  encourages  the  use  of  new 
learning  techniques.  At  the  same  time  she  is 
also  cautious  about  the  use  of  the  World 
Wide  Web  and  protecting  academic  prop- 
erty. 


integrated,  realistic  learning  experience." 

Gregory  Merrill,  president  and  chief  ex- 
ecutive of  HT  Medical,  announced  that 
CathSim  would  be  available  by  year  end. 

During  the  (spring)  semester,  the  Depart- 
ment of  Nursing  at  the  college  demonstrated 
the  success  of  the  prototype,  allowing  us  to 
be  confident  about  the  efficacy  of  the  prod- 
uct," said  Merrill.  "HT  Medical  is  pleased  to 
be  working  with  Plattsburgh  State  Univer- 
sity to  make  VR  training  a  reality." 

[2] 


"It  is  a  tremendous  opportunity  but  you 
need  to  understand  it  a  lot  better,"  said  Lavoie. 

Some  courses  may  be  taught  on  the  Web 
or  through  distance  learning  systems,  but 
Lavoie  stated,  "You  have  to  be  really,  really 
careful  to  protect  people's  academic  prop- 
erty. You  have  to  be  careful  you  don't  inad- 
vertently put  something  out  for  public  con- 
sumption that  really  shouldn't  be  released. 

"If  we  are  all  aware  of  the  risks  then  we 
can  go  into  it  with  our  eyes  open.  I  don't  like 
not  trying  something  because  it  might  be 
risky.  I'd  rather  try  it  and  work  out  the 
consequences." 

She  also  cautions  students  to  be  aware  of 
the  dangers  of  utilizing  the  information  ac- 
cessible on  the  web.  "Student  have  to  under- 
stand that  not  everything  is  on  the  Internet. 
There  are  other  sources  of  information." 

Even  as  dean  Lavoie  said  she  has  a  desire 
to  be  in  the  classroom  and  is  looking  forward 
to  teaching  a  lab  next  semester  at  Plattsburgh 
State. 

"Without  teaching,  I  loss  the  academic 
rhythm  of  the  year.  That's  very  important  to 
me  because  I  don't  know  when  faculty  are 
going  to  be  most  stressed.  This  semester  is 
the  first  time  in  years  I  haven't  taught,"  said 
Lavoie.  "I  miss  that  little  extra  surge  of 
adrenaline  you  get  at  the  beginning  of  the 
semester."  She  hopes  to  develop  a  course  or 
two  with  the  biology  department  for  next 
fall. 

Lavoie  says  she's  got  a  lot  of  reading  to 
do.  And  there's  the  inevitable  unpacking 
that  needs  to  be  done. 

Since  arriving  late  this  summer,  Lavoie, 
her  husband,  Jim,  who  is  a  nurse,  and  their 
three  children,  have  been  sorting  through  the 
boxes  that  have  filled  their  house  on 
Cumberland  Head. 

The  dean  has  even  managed  to  sneak  in  a 
trip  to  Mexico  in  December  without  the 
family.  It's  not  for  the  sun,  but  to  explore  a 
cave. 

A  few  years  ago,  Lavoie  said,  researchers 
found  a  cave  in  Romania  with  a  low  tem- 
perature, high  sulfur  ecosystem  completely 
isolated  from  the  surface.  It  has  unique 
forms  of  life  not  seen  anywhere  in  the  world. 

"Now,  there's  been  a  cave  discovered  in 
Mexico  that  might  be  another  one  of  these. 
I've  been  invited  along  on  the  expedition  to 
try  to  determine  if  it  is  another  one  of  these 
systems,"  said  Lavoie. 

"That's  the  sort  of  thing  a  biologist  thinks 
is  fun." 


CathSim  by  Year  End  (Continued  from  Page  1) 


Eastern  Adirondack  Health  Network 
Awarded  $163,000  NYS  Grant 


The  Eastern  Adirondack  Health  Care 
Network,  a  coalition  of  27  health  care  pro- 
viders in  Clinton,  Essex  and  Franklin  coun- 
ties, has  been  awarded  a  grant  of  $163,853 
from  the  New  York  State  Department  of 
Health's  Rural  Health  Network  Develop- 
ment Program. 

EAHCN  is  housed  at  the  Northeastern 
New  York  Alzheimer's  Disease  Assistance 
Center  at  Plattsburgh  State  and  is  chaired  by 
Dr.  Taher  Zandi,  distinguished  service  pro- 
fessor and  director  of  AD  AC. 


The  grant  will  be  used  to  assist  the  rural 
health  system  to  provide  high  quality  care 
within  the  rapidly  changing  health  care  in- 
dustry for  the  people  of  the  region. 

The  association  will  use  the  funds  to  en- 
large community  involvement  in  reducing 
risk  factors  for  the  health  and  care  of  the 
poor;  implement  cardiovascular  disease  pre- 
vention/education in  the  region;  expand  ac- 
cess to  health  care  services  for  residents  of 
Essex  County;  and  increase  an  individual's 
chances  of  surviving  cardiac  arrest. 


Dr.  James  Loewen:  Author,  Scholar,  Activist 
To  Speak  at  Plattsburgh  State  Sept.  18 

Dr.  James  Loewen,  author  of  Lies  My  Teacher  Told  Me: 
Everything  Your  High  School  History  Textbook  Got  Wrong, 
will  speak  Thursday,  Sept.  18,  at  8  p.m.  in  the  Warren 
Ballrooms  of  the  Angell  College  Center. 

Loewen,  a  professor  at  The  Catholic  University  of 
America  in  Washington  D.C,  is  a  distinguished  teacher, 
scholar,  and  civil  rights  activist  who  has  long  been  consid- 
ered a  champion  of  teaching  American  history  that  includes 
the  contributions  of  women,  minorities,  Natives  and  work- 
ing people. 

He  spent  two  years  at  the  Smithsonian  Institution  sur- 
LoeWen  vey  ing  leading  high  school  textbooks  of  American  history. 

Loewen  said  he  found  an  embarrassing  blend  of  bland  op- 
timism, blind  nationalism  and  plain  misinformation  in  his  reading. 

In  response,  he  wrote  Lies  My  Teacher  Told  Me  which  won  the  American  Book 
Award  of  the  Before  Columbus  Foundation  and  the  Oliver  C.  Cox  Anti-Racism  Award 
of  the  American  Sociological  Association's  Section  on  Race  and  Ethnic  Minorities  in 
1996. 

His  appearance  at  Plattsburgh  State  is  made  possible  through  the  President' s  Speaker 
Series,  which  is  sponsored  by  the  offices  of  the  presidents  of  Plattsburgh  State  and  the 
Student  Association,  and  the  College  Auxiliary  Services. 


Donors  Contribute  (Continued  from  Page  1) 


burgh  State,"  noted  Don  Garrant,  the 
Foundation's  executive  director. 

Ambitious  goals  were  set  for  "The  Platts- 
burgh Fund"  (the  annual  alumni  giving  cam- 
paign) of  raising  $220,000,  from  5,250  total 
donors  and  700  new  donors.  All  of  those 
goals  were  exceeded  by  raising  more  than 
$244,991  from  about  5,300  donors,  which 
included  well  over  1,800  new  donors. 

A  low-key  campaign  to  increase  partici- 
pation and  contributions  from  the  50  year 
class  resulted  in  26  gifts  (70%  of  the  class 
members).  This  year,  the  development  staff 
is  working  with  six  classes  from  the  40th 
anniversary  class  to  the  65-year  class.  Each 
member  of  these  six  classes  is  being  asked  to 
make  a  special  gift  in  honor  of  their  particu- 


lar reunion  class  or  to  increase  their  annual 
gift. 

The  Foundation's  strong  fund  raising  ef- 
forts have  helped  Plattsburgh  State  make  an 
education  more  affordable  for  many  stu- 
dents. 

During  the  1996-97  fiscal  year,  College 
Foundation  scholarships,  totaling  $45 1 , 105, 
were  awarded  to  788  students.  This  was 
more  than  $68,000  higher  than  the  previous 
year,  or  an  18  percent  increase. 

"I  am  sure  that  many  people  realize  that 
we  try  to  make  a  quality  education  afford- 
able to  anyone  who  needs  or  wants  one.  As 
a  result,  our  various  fund  raising  campaigns 
are  extremely  important,"  Garrant  added. 


Norton 


Louise  Norton 
Dead  at  93 

College's  First 

Home  Economics  Director 

Louise  M.  Norton,  di- 
rector of  the  Home  Eco- 
nomics Education  Divi- 
sion at  the  Plattsburgh 
Normal  School  and  later 
Plattsburgh  State  Univer- 
sity of  New  York  from 
1938  until  her  retirement 
in  1960,  died  Aug.  28, 
1997  in  Franconia,  N.H.,  at  the  age  of  93. 

Ms.  Norton  was  born  on  Jan.  4,  1904  in 
Boston,  Mass.  She  was  raised  in  Boston  until 
she  went  to  college  at  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire.  She  worked  at  Keene  State  Col- 
lege, Loyola  School  in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  and 
for  the  Home  Economics  Education  Bureau 
within  the  State  of  New  Hampshire  Depart- 
ment of  Education  prior  to  coming  to  Platts- 
burgh. 

As  director  of  the  home  economics  educa- 
tion division,  Ms.  Norton  was  responsible 
for  overseeing  the  development  of  the  cur- 
riculum for  Plattsburgh  State's  first  four- 
year  program  yielding  a  bachelor  of  science 
degree.  The  first  alumni  of  the  home  eco- 
nomics education  division  with  four-year 
degrees  graduated  in  June  1941. 

Ms.  Norton  retired  to  Essex,  Ct.,  in  1960 
where  she  lived  for  many  years  until  she 
moved  to  Franconia,  NH  to  live  near  her 
brother,  William. 

In  addition  to  her  duties  supervising  the 
Home  Economic  division  at  Plattsburgh 
State,  Ms.  Norton  arranged  for  the  purchase 
of  many  pieces  of  furniture  of  outstanding 
quality,  as  well  as  dinnerware,  crystal  and 
silverware. 

Prior  to  her  death,  the  Plattsburgh  College 
Foundation  began  a  project  to  restore  the 
collection  and  find  a  suitable  location  for 
display .  This  collection,  which  will  be  called 
the  Louise  Norton  Classic  Collection  Exhi- 
bition, will  be  made  a  permanent  part  of  the 
college's  Art  Museum  and  will  be  housed  in 
the  Fireplace  Lounge  in  Ward  Hall  in  the 
near  future. 

She  is  survived  by  her  brother,  William, 
two  nieces,  one  nephew  and  several  grand- 
nieces.  There  were  no  services  for  Ms. 
Norton  although  a  memorial  service  may  be 
held  at  a  later  date. 

Contributions  in  memory  of  Ms.  Norton 
can  be  made  to  the  Louise  Norton  Classic 
Collection  Exhibition,  c/o  Plattsburgh  Col- 
lege Foundation,  101  Broad  Street,  Platts- 
burgh, NY  12901-2681. 


[3] 


Joe  Clark,  Lean  On  Me  Principal  to  Speak  During   Family  Weekend 


Joe  Clark,  the  former  principal  of 
Eastside  High  School  in  Paterson, 
NJ,  who  turned  the  public  school 
fraught  with  drugs,  violence  and 
vandalism  into  a  model  educational 
institution,  will  be  the  guest  speaker 
during  Family  Weekend  at  Pitts- 
burgh State  University,  Sept.  26-28. 
Clark  will  speak  at  8  p.m.,  Saturday, 
Sept.  27,  in  the  Warren  Ballrooms  of 
the  Angell  College  Center. 

A  former  Army  drill  instructor, 
Clark  is  known  for  challenging  stu- 
dents to  develop  habits  for  success 
and  confronting  those  who  failed  to  reform. 

On  a  single  day  during  his  first  week  at 
Eastside  High  in  1982,  he  expelled  300  stu- 
dents for  fighting,  vandalism,  drug  posses- 
sion, profanity  or  abusing  teachers. 

Norman  Kleeblatt, 
Too  Jewish?  Curator 
to  Speak  Sept.  22 

Norman  Kleeblatt,  the  curator  for  the 
provocative  traveling  exhibition  Too  Jew- 
ish? Challenging  Traditional  Identities  will 
give  a  slide  presentation  about  the  exhibit  on 
Monday,  Sept.  22,  at  7:30  p.m.  in  the  Pitts- 
burgh Room  of  Angell  College  Center  at 
Pittsburgh  State. 

Kleeblatt  is  the  Susan  and  Elihu  Rose 
Curator  of  Fine  Arts  at  The  Jewish  Museum 
in  New  York  City.  His  Too  Jewish?  exhibit 
explores  how  the  new  ethnic  consciousness 
of  the  past  decade  has  profoundly  affected 
many  contemporary  artists. 

The  exhibit,  which  has  been  on  display  in 
San  Francisco,  Los  Angeles,  Baltimore  and 
now  in  Philadelphia  until  Dec.  26,  focuses 
on  issues  of  Jewish  identity  and  draws  upon 
a  variety  of  sources,  ranging  from  postwar 
art  to  recent  mass  media  and  popular  culture. 
The  works  in  the  exhibit  including  paint- 
ings, drawings,  sculpture,  installations,  as- 
semblage and  art  videos. 

Kleeblatt' s  lecture  is  open  to  the  public 
and  is  being  sponsored  by  the  Slatkin  Lec- 
ture Series  of  Temple  Beth  Israel,  the  Stu- 
dent Association  and  Campus  Arts  Council 
at  Pittsburgh  State. 

A  reception  will  follow  the  discussion. 


Clark  won  acclaim 
for  his  achievements 
in  a  Time  cover  story, 
two  60  Minutes  pro- 
files and  appearances 
on  television  news  and 
talk  shows.  A  film, 
Lean  on  Me,  starring 
two-time  Oscar  nomi- 
nee Morgan  Freeman, 
highlighted  his  duties 
as  principal. 

Clark,  one  of  the 
nation's  top  "Principals  of  Leadership"  in 
1986,  resigned  in  1990  to  join  the  lecture 
circuit.  He  is  now  director  of  the  Essex 
County  Youth  House,  a  juvenile  detention 
center  in  his  hometown  of  Newark,  NJ. 
His  appearance  during  Family  Weekend 


Clark 


is  sponsored  by  the  Presidents'  Speakers 
Series,  which  is  supported  by  the  presidents 
of  Plattsburgh  State  and  the  Student  Asso- 
ciation, and  the  College  Auxiliary  Services. 
The  lecture  is  free  and  open  to  the  public. 

A  number  of  other  events  are  planned 
throughout  the  weekend  including:  a  con- 
cert by  the  Champlain  Flute  Quartet;  a  per- 
formance of  "the  Puppertmaster  of  Lodz"  by 
Pendragon  Theatre  in  Residency;  plan- 
etarium shows;  Burghy  Games;  women's 
varsity  soccer  games;  and  trips  to  Burlington, 
Montreal,  and  Lake  Placid. 

A  lakeside  dinner  will  be  offered  at  the 
Valcour  Educational  Conference  Center  Sat- 
urday evening  prior  to  Joe  Clark's  speech. 

Phi  Eta  Sigma  will  hold  an  induction 
ceremony,  Saturday,  at  4  p.m.  in  the  Angell 
College  Center. 


Nursing  Cadets  Return  to  Plattsburgh 


Several  of  the  Nursing  Cadets  from  the  graduating  class  of  1947  review  a  copy  of  the  "C  ardinal 
Yearbook*'  from  that  year  during  the  open  house  honoring  their  Golden  Anniversary. 

The  Class  of  1947  Nurse  Cadet  Corps  returned  to  Plattsburgh  State  Saturday, 
Sept.  13  to  celebrate  their  Golden  Anniversary. 

During  an  open  house  in  their  honor,  the  nursing  graduates  enjoyed  "walking  down 
memory  lane."  They  also  were  giving  a  demonstration  of  CathSim,  the  virtual  reality 
IV  simulator  in  the  Damianos  Nursing  Skills  Lab,  and  an  overview  of  the  today's 
nursing  program  at  Plattsburgh  State. 

Several  Student  Ambassadors  escorted  the  nursing  alumni  on  a  tour  of  Hawkins 
Hall,  which  was  the  only  building  on  campus  when  they  were  students. 


[4] 


Students,  Faculty  Show  Interest 

Faculty  Mentoring  Program  Moves  Ahead 


A  new  faculty 
mentoring  program  for 
minority  students  is  on 
the  horizon  and  there  is  a 
growing  interest  from 
students  and  faculty.  In 
fact,  more  than  50  stu- 
dents and  25  faculty  have 
expressed  interest  in  the 
program. 

Gail  Judson,  SUNY 
associate  to  the  president, 
said  the  purpose  of  a  fac- 
ulty mentoring  program 
at  Plattsburgh  State  is  Parity  and  administrators  gathered  at  Vale  our  Conference  Center  this 
two- fold*  for  the  Students  summer  to  nsten  to  a  consultant  speak  about  goals  for  a  faculty  mentoring 

•iiu    u     ir     *         program  at  Plattsburgh  State, 
it  will  build  self-esteem  v 

and  improve  grades  and  the  college  will  boost  retention  of  minority  students  and  graduation 

rates. 

The  program,  targeted  for  minority  freshmen  and  transfer  students,  will  officially  get 
underway  in  January  1998.  But  before  the  program  is  instituted,  Judson  said  several  things 
have  to  occur. 

A  faculty  director  and  board  need  to  be  established,  student  assistants  recruited  and 
diversity  workshops  developed  for  faculty  members  participating  in  the  program. 

An  initial  step  occurred  this  summer.  Dr.  Fred  Edmondson,  the  senior  director  i  n  Student 
Life  at  California  State  University  at  Stanislaus  and  a  consultant  in  faculty  mentoring 
programs,  came  to  Plattsburgh  State.  He  met  with  faculty  and  administrators  to  discuss  the 
general  concept  and  success  of  the  faculty  mentoring  program  at  Stanislaus. 

Judson  said  goals  and  objectives  are  being  developed.  She  also  stated  minority  students 
will  have  to  understand  an  important  aspect  of  the  program  before  signing  on.  "They  will 
need  to  be  willing  to  accept  faculty  members  as  mentors  who  are  not  of  their  own  ethnicity,"  \ 
said  Judson. 

Recruitment  of  minority  students  will  get  underway  this  fall  and  a  social  gathering  for 
those  interested  in  the  program  will  be  held  in  early  October.  Judson  said  that  initially  faculty 
will  act  as  advisors  to  the  students.  Once  the  program  is  officially  underway,  students  will 
be  able  to  select  their  mentors. 


Marriott  Corporation  Celebrate  20  Years 


Marriott  Corporation  took  the  opportunity  recently  to  congratulate  its  associates  who  have  been 
with  the  food  service  operator  for  the  past  20  years.  Pictured  are:  (first  row,  1-r)  Shirley  Hawksby 
(28  years);  Bonnie  Skelly  (22);  Agnes  Palmer  (31);  Jo  Rocque  (25);  Marion  Knuffke  (22);  Dot  Baker 
(29);  and  Gerry  Goff  (31).  Second  Row:  Bill  Rochford,  district  manager;  Cathy  Adams  (20);  Dale 
Snider  (25);  Bonnie  Snider  (30);  Howard  LaPointe(29);  Sandi  King  (22);  Regina  Rollier  (23);  Hazel 
Crary  (36);  Melody  Vassar  (22);Rita  LaForest  (30);  and  Pat  Spillman,  food  service  director. 


"War  and  Its  Uses" 
Symposium  Oct.  2-4 
at  Plattsburgh  State 

This  year's  sixth  interdisciplinary  sym- 
posium in  the  "Plattsburgh  Studies  in  the 
Humanities"  series  at  Plattsburgh  State,  Oct. 
2-4,will  focus  on  all  different  types  of  war. 

With  "War  and  its  Uses:  Conflict  and 
Creativity"  as  the  theme,  scholars,  writers 
and  artists  from  across  the  United  States  and 
other  countries  will  gather  at  Plattsburgh 
State  to  discuss  their  views  on  a  wide  range 
of  war-related  issues. 

From  the  war  on  insects  and  mosquitoes, 
to  how  America's  leaders  decide  to  declare 
war  and  the  popular  music  during  wars, 
lecturers  will  have  the  opportunity  to  present 
their  beliefs. 

Coordinated  by  professors  Jurgen  Kleist 
and  Bruce  Butterfield,  the  symposium  at- 
tracts people  from  all  walks  of  life  and  areas. 
Five  of  the  20  presenters  are  from  Platts- 
burgh State  while  the  other  individuals 
come  from  as  far  away  as  California,  Illinois, 
Washington,  Canada  and  even  Germany. 

The  symposium  opens  Wednesday 
evening,  Oct.  2  with  the  7:30  p.m.  showing 
of  the  film  Nikolaikirche  in  200  Yokum 
Hall.  The  films  tells  the  story  of  a  family  in 
Leipzig  during  the  troublesome  years  from 
1987  until  the  street  demonstrations  in  Octo- 
ber 1989,  which  led  to  the  downfall  of  East 
Germany  and  the  subsequent  fall  of  the  Ber- 
lin Wall. 

The  symposium  will  continue  Friday  9 
a.m.  -  8  p.m.  and  Saturday,  9  a.m.  -  4  p.m.  in 
the  Cardinal  Lounge  of  Angell  College  Cen- 
ter. 

All  lectures  and  presentations  are  free  and 
open  to  the  public.  The  symposium  is  spon- 
sored by  the  offices  of  Plattsburgh  State 
President  Horace  Judson  and  Provost  and 
Vice  President  E.  Thomas  Moran. 

Faculty-Senate  to 
Meet  Sept.  30 

The  first  meeting  of  the  Faculty-Senate 
for  the  1997-98  year  will  be  held  on  Sept. 
30  at  4: 15  p.m.  in  the  Plattsburgh  Room  of 
the  Angell  College  Center. 

Dave  Franzi,  newly  appointed  Senate 
Chairperson,  said  the  Faculty  Senate  will 
conduct  a  review  of  the  Senate  by-laws  dur- 
ing the  Fall  1997  semester. 


[5] 


Joel  St.  Mary  Named  Development  Director; 
Smith,  Robinson  Promoted  to  New  Posts 


Joel  St.  Mary  of  Syracuse,  assumed 
the  position  of  Director  of  Development 
in  the  Office  of  College  Relations  and 
Development  on  June  16. 

Effective  July  1,  Carolee  Smith,  for- 
merly associate  director  of  development, 
was  promoted  to  Director  of  Annual 
Giving,  and  Rose  Robinson,  previously 
associate  director  of  alumni  affairs,  was 
named  Director  of  Alumni  Affairs. 

St.  Mary  is  a  graduate  of  Syracuse  Uni- 
versity and  has  a  master' s  degree  from  Platts- 
burgh  State.  He  has  served  as  director  of 
development  for  the  Washington,  DC  re- 
gion for  Syracuse  University,  associate  di- 
rector of  development  for  individual  gifts  at 
the  University  of  Rochester,  director  of  the 
Clarkson  Fund  at  Clarkson  University,  ex- 
ecutive vice  president  of  the  Canton  Col- 


cr. 


St.  Mary  Smith  Robinson 

lege  Foundation,  director  of  development 
and  assistant  to  the  president  at  Canton  Col- 
lege of  Technology,  and  dean  of  develop- 
ment at  Paul  Smith's  College. 

"It  is  Mr.  St.  Mary's  assignment  to  assist 
our  development  efforts  by  building  rela- 
tionships with  key  individuals,  businesses 
and  foundations  that  will  lead  to  major  and 
planned  gifts,"  said  Don  Garrant,  executive 
assistant  to  the  president  for  college  rela- 
tions and  development. 


Java  Jo 's  Coffee  House  Opens 


mi 


SEPTEMBER  15-19,  1397 

Get  >toar 
Jump  Swrt 

f^G/STCS  FOR 
FBEX  GJVCAWAYS 


Java  Jo's  Coffee  House  held  its  grand  opening  Monday,  Sept.  15,  as  Cheryl  Hogle,  (center  left) 
president  of  CAS,  cut  the  ribbon.  Bill  Rochford,  Marriott's  district  manager,  Stan  Supinski,  executive 
director  of  CAS,  and  Pat  Spillman,  Marriot's  food  service  director,  look  on.  Located  in  the  former 
Centennial  Room  of  Angell  College  Center,  the  coffee  house  provides  a  place  for  students  and  faculty 
to  gather  informally  throughout  the  day  and  evening.  Open  7  a.m.  to  midnight,  Monday  through 
Friday,  and  11:30  a.m.  to  midnight  weekends,  Java  Jo's  will  also  be  a  location  for  weekend  evening 
programming.  Customers  will  find  Green  Mountain  Coffee  Roasters  coffees  on  the  menu  along  with 
juices,  bagels,  muffins,  biscotti,  specialty  baked  desserts,  salads,  soups  and  sandwiches. 


Smith  has  been  a  member  of  the 
College  Relations  and  Development 
staff  since  1981,  when  she  was  named 
director  of  public  information.  She  is  a 
graduate  of  the  College  of  St.  Rose  and 
holds  a  master's  degree  from  Platts- 
burgh  State.  In  her  new  assignment, 
Smith  will  be  responsible  for  the  total 
annual  giving  campaign  which  includes 
alumni,  businesses,  faculty/staff,  parents, 
community  organizations,  friends  and  the 
Cardinal  Booster  Club. 

Robinson,  a  1995  graduate  of  Plattsburgh 
State,  has  been  given  responsibility  for  all 
alumni  programming,  including  the  Alumni 
Admissions  Network  and  Plattsburgh  Ca- 
reer Exploration  (PACE)  Network.  She  will 
also  coordinate  on  and  off-campus  program- 
ming with  a  goal  of  involving  more  alumni 
and  undergraduate  students  in  the  life  of 
their  alma  mater  and  will  assist  with  the 
Alumni  Legislative  Network.  Robinson  has 
been  a  member  of  the  OCR&D  staff  since 
1986. 

"Both  Carolee  and  Rose  had  served  as 
associate  directors  of  programs,  and  I  was 
convinced  after  working  directly  with  each 
of  them  last  year,  that  both  deserved  promo- 
tions," said  Garrant.  "I  am  indebted  to 
President  Judson  for  agreeing  with  my  rec- 
ommendation to  promote  these  extremely 
capable  administrators." 


Pittsburgh's  Own 
CD-ROM  Due  Soon 

Plattsburgh  State  will  soon  have  its  own 
multi-media  presentation  on  CD-ROM  . 

Cherie  Snyder,  admissions  advisor,  has 
been  working  with  CollegeView,  a  leading 
nationwide  producer  of  CD-ROMs  for  col- 
leges, to  design  the  disk. 

CollegeView  will  distribute  the  CD-ROM 
to  high  schools  and  community  colleges 
nationwide  and  will  link  its  web  site  to  the 
college's  homepage. 

The  presentation  includes  15  pages,  18 
photos  and/or  graphic  elements,  10  audio 
clips  and  four  video  segments. 

Plattsburgh  State  will  also  receive  1,000 
of  the  disks  to  send  to  feeder  schools  through- 
out New  York  State  and  Vermont  and  to 
prospective  students  for  home  usage. 


[6] 


SPOTLIGHT 


Dr.Thomas  Braga 
Dr.  Marshall  Onofrio 
Dr.  Peter  Edwards 
Susan  Edwards 
Dr.  J.  Justin  Gustainis 
Dr.  Pilar  Tirado 
Dr.  Thomas  Wolosz 


Onofrio 


Dr.  Thomas  Braga, 

professor  of  foreign  lan- 
guages, and  Dr.  Marshall 
Onofrio,  professor  of 
music,  collaborated  on  a 
project  this  past  summer 
as  part  of  the  annual 
Adirondack  Festival  of  Braga 

American  Music.  Titled. 
"Braga  Bits,"  a  collection 
of  Braga's  poems  were  set 
to  music  by  Onofrio.  Il 
was  performed  in  concert 
by  the  Gregg  Smith  Sing- 
ers in  Plattsburgh  and 
Saranac  Lake  during  July. 
Dr.  Peter  Edwards, 
professor  of  education,  and  Susan  Edwards, 
adjunct  lecturer  in  education,  presented  a  pa- 
per at  the  15th  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Inter- 
national Association  of 
Management  in  Montreal 
in  August.  The  paper, 
"The  Management  of  a 
GOALS  2000  University- 
School  Collaborative  Pro- 
gram for  At-Risk  Chil- 
dren, "  described  the  clini- 
cal reading  program  con- 
ducted by  the  Center  for 
Educational  Studies  and 
Services  at  the  Peru 
Northside  Elementary 
School  as  part  of  the  Pro- 
fessional Development 
School  Without  Walls  Project. 


Gustainis 


S.  Edwards 


Dr.  J.  Justin  Gustainis,  associate  profes 
sor  of  communications,  has  written  four  en- 
tries for  the  forthcoming 
volume  War  and  Ameri- 
can Popular  Culture:  An 
Historical  Encyclopedia 
(Greenwood  Press).  The 
entries  are  on  peace  signs 
and  symbols  and  the  fol- 
lowing films:  Apocalypse 
Now,  Hearts  and  Minds, 
and  Rambo:  First  Blood,  Part  II.  He  has  also 
written  an  entry  on  'The  Weathermen"  for 
the  Encyclopedia  of  the  Sixties,  forthcoming 
from  Salem  Press.  He  was  selected  to  write 
the  entries  because  of  his  earlier  work  about 
Vietnam,  especially  his  1993  book,  Ameri- 
can Rhetoric  and  the  Vietnam  War. 

Dr.  Pilar  Tirado.  assistant  professor  of 
foreign  languages,  participated  in  the  annual 
reading  and  scoring  of  the 
College  Board's  Advance 
Placement  Examinations 
in  Spanish  in  June.  Tirado 
was  among  3,600  faculty 
consultants  from  high 
schools  and  universities 
across  North  America 
who  evaluated  more  than 
900,000  examinations. 

An  article  by  Dr.  Thomas  Wolosz,  pro- 
fessor in  the  Center  for  Earth  and  Environ- 
mental Studies,  has  been 
included  in  the  book  Pa- 
leontological Events  (Co- 
lumbia University  Press, 
1997.)  In  "Thicketing 
Events:  A  Key  to  Under- 
standing the  Ecology  of 
the    Edgecliff  Reefs 
(Middle  Devonian 
Onondaga  Formation  of  New  York  and 
Ontario,  Canada),"  Wolosz  describes 
how  water  depth  was  an  important 
f ac  t  o  r  i  n  de  v  e  1  op  m  e  n  t  o  f  Ed  g  e  c  1  i  ffs 
in  the  Onondaga  Formation. 


Tirado 


Wolosz 


"The  Quake" 
Replaces  WPLT 

No  it' s  not  another  new  radio  station  in  the 
Champlain  Valley.  It's  WQKE,  formerly 
WPLT,  Plattsburgh  State's  student  run  radio 
station. 

Since  the  mid  1970s  the  students  have 
been  rocking  the  FM  airwaves  for  listeners  on 
campus,  in  the  city  and  the  surrounding  areas. 
That  will  not  change  except  for  the  name. 

The  call  letters  WPLT  were  relinquished 
by  station  personnel  after  a  major  radio  net- 
work asked  the  students  to  give  up  the  letters. 

"WPLT  stood  for  'Pilot/"  said  Brian 
Larzelere,  station  manager  and  a  senior  mass 
communications  major  from  Clinton.  "With 
the  loss  of  the  air  force  base  a  couple  of  years 
ago,  it  just  didn't  seem  to  make  sense  to  hold 
onto  the  name  for  only  that  reason." 

"It  was  a  tough  decision  for  the  student 
management  of  the  station  to  make,"  said 
Stephen  Matthews,  the  college' s  FCC  license 
designee.  "So  many  alumni  before  them  have 
worked  at  the  station  under  the  former  call 
letters.  But,  they  felt  it  was  in  the  best  inter- 
ests of  the  station  and  future  students  who 
will  train  and  participate  in  the  operation  of 
the  radio  station  in  the  future." 

The  campus  radio  station  has  had  the  WPLT 
call  letters  since  before  1 974  when  the  station 
began  broadcasting  on  the  FM  band.  In  return 
for  relinquishing  the  call  letters,  the  station 
will  receive  an  undisclosed  contribution  that 
will  be  set  aside  in  an  endowment  for  future 
purposes  yet  to  be  determined. 

The  Federal  Communications  Commis- 
sion allocated  the  new  call  letters  which 
Larzelere  believes  will  be  useful  in  promo- 
tion of  the  station. 

WQKE,  or  "the  Quake,"  as  it's  being  called 
around  campus,  has  been  building  its 
listenership  since  students  turned  on  the  trans- 
mitter Sept.  8.  The  studios,  located  in  Yokum 
hall,  have  been  remodeled  and  equipment 
upgraded  the  last  several  years.  The  10  kilo- 
watt-radio station  can  be  heard  at  93.9  on  the 
FM  band. 


Landscapes  and  Scupltures  on  Display  Through  Sept.  30 

Crosby,  Osborn  Exhibition  in  Old  Forge 


Origins  -  Horizons  -  Signs,  an  exhibition  of  landscapes  by 
William  Crosby,  professor  of  art,  and  welded  steel  sculptures 
by  Don  Osborn,  professor  of  art,  are  on  display  at  the  Arts 
Center/Old  Forge  now  through  Sept.  30.  The  exhibit  is  on 
display  simultaneously  with  The  Adirondack  National  Exhibi- 
tion of  American  Watercolors. 

Crosby's  images  are  of  landscapes  from  Alaska,  coastal 
Maine  and  the  Adirondack-Lake  Champlain  region.  Some  of 


Osborn' s  sculptures  are  painted,  some  monochromatic,  with 
oxidation  creating  a  rust  effect. 

Crosby  also  has  another  exhibit  on  display  at  the  Arts  Center, 
Alaskan  Images,  a  display  of  black  and  white  and  color  photo- 
graphs of  Alaska. 

The  exhibition  is  open  to  the  public  10  a.m.  to  4  p.m.  daily 
and  noon  to  4  p.m.  on  Sundays  through  Sept.  30  at  the  Arts 
Center  in  Old  Forge. 


[7] 


Cardinal  Sports  Roundup 


Men's  Soccer 

Despite  a  strong  effort,  a  goal  early  in  the  second  half  proved 
to  be  the  difference  as  the  Plattsburgh  State  men's  soccer  team 
lost  1-0  to  Nazareth  for  their  first  defeat  of  the  season  Sept.  13. 
Down  1-0  in  the  second  half,  the  Cardinals  turned  up  their 
intensity  a  notch,  but  were  unable  to  get  the  ball  in  the  goal.  The 
Cardinals  open  SUNYAC  play  this  weekend  at  home  against 
Utica/Rome  on  Friday  and  New  Paltz  on  Saturday. 

Men's  Cross  Country 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men's  cross  country  team  won  the 
Cardinal  Classic  Saturday.  Walter  Long  from  Smithtown  won 
the  Cardinal  Classic  finishing  in  a  time  of  27:33.  Jim  Roth  of 
Uticaplaced  second,  followed  by  Corey  Davidson  from  Cady  ville. 
The  Cardinals  will  be  back  in  action  this  weekend  competing  at 
the  Williams  Invitational  on  Saturday,  Sept.  20. 

Women's  Volleyball 

In  a  week  where  they  played  six  road  matches,  the  Plattsburgh 
State  women's  volleyball  team  came  away  with  three  victories, 
including  a  third  place  finish  at  the  North  Country  Volleyball 
Invitational.  On  Tuesday,  the  Cardinals  swept  St.  Michael's  and 
lost  to  Clarkson.  At  the  North  Country  Invitational,  the  women 
defeated  Nazareth  and  Clarkson  and  lost  to  Oneonta  on  Friday. 
On  Saturday,  the  Cardinals  lost  to  the  eventual  tournament 
runner-up  Elmira  3-1  before  gaining  a  five-game  victory  over 
Potsdam. 


Women's  Cross  Country 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  cross  country  team  gained  a 
pair  of  1 5-50  victories  over  CI arkson  and  Norwich  and  capture  the 
Cardinal  Classic  last  weekend.  Heather  Spellman  from  Platts- 
burgh, posted  her  first  college  win,  finishing  in  a  time  of  19:41  to 
lead  Plattsburgh.  Amy  Nutt  from  Plattsburgh,  was  the  runner-up 
for  the  Cardinals  with  a  time  of  19:44.  The  Plattsburgh  State 
women's  cross  country  team  travel  to  the  Williams  Invitational 
this  weekend. 

Women's  Soccer 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  soccer  team  finished  the  week 
with  a  win,  loss  and  a  tie  as  they  beat  St.  Michael's,  lost  to  Elmira 
and  tied  national  powerhouse  Keene.  The  Cardinals  open  their 
SUNYAC  season  on  the  road  with  games  against  Oneonta  and 
New  Paltz. 

Women's  Tennis 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  tennis  team  posted  a  3-0 
victory  over  Clarkson  on  Tuesday  to  bring  their  home  match  win 
streak  to  five  and  defeated  Russell  Sage  on  Saturday  to  start  the 
season  a  perfect  2-0.  Melissa  Zwick  of  Hopewell  Junction  and 
Margrielle  Wilburn  of  East  Boldon,  England  dominated  their 
singles  matches  and  then  teamed  up  to  win  their  No. 2  doubles 
match  8-0  against  Clarkson.  Plattsburgh  won  five  of  six  singles 
matches  and  two  of  three  doubles  matches  to  gain  a  7-2  victory 
over  Russell  Sage. 


New  Men's,  Women's  Basketball  Coaches  Appointed 


Plattsburgh  State's  basketball  programs 
are  betting  their  new  coaches  will  set  the 
courts  on  fire. 

Ed  Jones  has  been  appointed  head  coach 
of  the  men's  basketball  team  while  Cheryl 
Cole  has  been  named  his  counterpart  for  the 
women's  team. 

Jones,  who  was  previously  head  coach  at 
Utica  College  since  1987,  led  the  Utica  Pio- 
neers into  the  post-season  five  times  in  the 
1 0  years  he  had  been  at  the  helm  of  the  Divi- 
sion III  team. 

An  assistant  at  Utica  for  six  years  prior  to 
becoming  head  coach,  Jones  also  held  assis- 
tant positions  at  all  levels  in  college  coach- 
ing including  Manhattan  College,  Wayne 
State,  and  Rockland  Community  College.  He 
began  his  24-year  collegiate  coach  career  in 
1973  as  head  junior  varsity  coach  at 
Brockport  State. 

"Plattsburgh  is  a  terrific  school  with  an  ex- 
cellent commitment  to  athletics  and  a  qual- 
ity basketball  program,"  said  Jones.  "We  have 
a  nice  nucleus,  but  there  is  definitely  some 
building  to  do."  Jones  said. 

Since  taking  the  reigns  August  15,  Jones 
has  spent  90  percent  of  his  days  on  the  phone 


Jones  Cole 


recruiting.  He  said  that  the  refurbishments  to 
Memorial  Hall  gymnasium,  including  a  new 
hardwood  floor,  will  help  in  recruitment  of 
new  players. 

Jones  replaces  Larry  Cowan  who  was  ap- 
pointed director  of  athletics. 

Cole  was  head  women's  basketball  coach 
at  nearby  Paul  Smith's  College  since  1994. 
She  led  the  Paul  Smith's  Lady  Bobcats  to  the 
team's  most  wins  in  the  school  history  com- 
piling a  25-4  record  including  a  runner-up 
finish  in  the  NJCAA  Region  III,  Division  II 
tournament.  The  team  also  won  the  North- 
ern Independence  Conference  Championship 
the  past  two  seasons. 

The  1996/97  National  Junior  College  Ath- 
letic Association  Region  III,  Division  II  coach 

[8] 


of  the  year  will  continue  the  building  pro- 
cess begun  last  season  by  interim  women's 
head  basketball  coach  Erin  Griffin. 

"With  the  appointment  of  Cheryl  Cole,  I 
truly  believe  that  we  have  one  of  the  bright, 
young  coaching  talents  to  lead  our  women's 
basketball  program  into  the  future,"  said 
Cowan.  "This  is  particularly  pleasing  as  she 
will  add  stability,  credibility,  and  leadership 
which  the  current  players  in  the  program  de- 
serve, and  which  will  be  an  attraction  to  pro- 
spective student-athletes." 

A  native  of  Syracuse,  Cole  said  she  was 
attracted  to  the  prospects  of  coaching  a  ris- 
ing four-year  college  team.  "Plattsburgh  has 
shown  me  a  real  commitment  toward  build- 
ing a  successful  women's  basketball  program. 
I'm  excited  about  this  new  challenge." 

Cole  holds  a  B.A.  in  psychology  and  an 
M.S.  in  human  development  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Rochester.  An  accomplished  col- 
legiate basketball  and  soccer  player,  Cole  was 
inducted  in  the  U.  of  R.  Hall  of  Fame  in  1995. 
Team  captain  of  the  1986  U.  of  R.  national 
championship  women's  soccer  team,  Cole 
also  served  as  the  assistant  athletic  director 
and  women's  soccer  coach  at  Paul  Smith's. 


ocus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 


THURSDAY,  SEPTEMBER  18  -  WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  1 
Unless  otherwise  noted,  all  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public. 


Thursday,  September  18 

11  a.m.-2  p.m.  —  InterVarsity  Christian  Fellowship  book  table. 
Angell  Center  Lobby. 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Kol  Derekh 
Hatzafon  (Sound  of  the  Northway).  Sponsored  by  the  Women's 
Studies  Program,  with  support  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Cardinal 
Lounge. 

4:30  p.m. — The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Katie  Boulay , 
Student  Association  President  speaking  on  "Getting  Involved  on 
Campus."  Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Am- 
nesty Room. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

8  p.m.  —  The  Presidents' 
Speakers  Series  presents  Dr. 
James  Loewen  speaking  on 
"Lies  My  Teacher  Told  Me," 
sponsored  by  the  Offices  of 
the  Presidents':  Plattsburgh 
State,  CAS  and  Student  As- 
sociation. Angell  Center  War- 
ren Ballrooms. 
8  p.m.  —  Organization  for 
Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Con- 
ference Room. 


7:30  p.m. 

Room  2. 


-  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 


Friday,  September  19 
1-3  p.m. — Town  Hall  Meet- 
ing sponsored  by  the  Student 
Association.  Open  to  mem- 
bers only.  Angell  Center 
Amnesty  Room. 
9  p.m.  —  Open  Mic  Program 
hosted  by  Plattsburgh  State  Student  Brooke  Babbie.  Java  Jo's, 
Angell  College  Center. 

Saturday,  September  20 

9  a.m.-5:30  p.m.  —  Bus  to  Montreal,  sponsored  by  Campus  Life. 
Tickets:  $10  round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Bus 
departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 
11  a.m.-2  p.m.  —  SA  Club  and  Organization  Fair,  sponsored  by  the 
Student  Association.  Angell  Center  Courtyard  (Lobby  in  the  event 
of  rain). 

2  p.m.  —  Men's  Soccer  vs.  SUNY  New  Paltz.  Plattsburgh  State 
Field  House. 

Sunday,  September  21 

11  a.m.  —  Lyon  Mountain  Guided  Hike,  sponsored  by  the  Student 
Association.  Tickets:  $5  SA  Members,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center 
Desk,  includes  round  trip  bus  transportation.  Bus  departs  from  the 
Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents 
The  Devil 's  Own  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets:  $  1 
SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angel  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 


Mary  Gregory  Glass  Added 
To  Regina  Slatkin  Collection 

The  Plattsburgh  Art  Museum  has  received  a  selection  of 
Mary  Gregory  Glass  from  Regina  Slatkin. 

What  has  come  to  be  known  as  Mary  Gregory  glass  is  best 
described  as  objects  of  transparent  colored  glass  decorated 
with  white  or  colored  enamel  designs  —  often  of  children  de- 
picted in  natural  settings. 

The  glassware  was  added  to  the  original  glass  collection 
Mrs.  Slatkin  has  given  to  the  college  over  the  past  ten  years. 

It  is  on  display  in  the  Regina  Slatkin  Art  Collections  Study 
Room  on  the  second  floor  of  the  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building,  1 2 
-  4  p.m.  daily  and  12  -  8  p.m.  Thursdays. 


Monday,  September  22 

7  p.m.  —  Philosophy  Club  organizational  meeting.  Philosophy 
Department  Lounge,  3rd  Floor,  Champlain  Valley  Hall. 

7:15  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  7. 

7:30  p.m.  —  Fall  Speaker:  Norman  Kleeblatt,  Jewish  Museum, 
sponsored  by  the  Student  Art  Club  and  Temple  Beth  Israel.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Ballroom  A. 

8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m. — El  Pueblo  weekly  meet- 
ing. Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 


Tuesday,  September  23 

1 1  a.m.-l  p.m. — Weekly  Blood 
Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all 
campus  employees  sponsored  by 
the  EAP  and  Department  of  Nurs- 
ing. EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's 
Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  6. 
12:15  p.m.  —  The  Wellness 
Workshop  Series  presents  Laurie 
Estes,  Upward  Bound,  speaking 
on  "Studying  in  the  90s."  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 
4  p.m.  —  Women's  Soccer  vs. 
Clarkson  University.  Plattsburgh 
State  Field  House. 

4:15  p.m.  —  Music  Awards  Ceremony  sponsored  by  the  Music 
Council.  Hawkins  Hall  Recital  hall. 

7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  2. 

8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  September  24 

3  p.m. — Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building 
Room  232  (the  fish  bowl). 

4:30  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Student  Forum,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom  B. 

7  p.m.  —  LGB  A  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 


Thursday,  September  25 

11  a.m.-2  p.m.  —  InterVarsity  Christian  Fellowship  book  table. 
Angell  Center  Lobby. 

11  a.m.-3  p.m.  —  CVPH  Blood  Drive.  Angell  Center  Flynt  Com- 
mons. 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Berry 
Matthews  speaking  on  "Impressions  of  Ceramics  and  People  of 
Lithuania."  Sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies  Program,  with 
support  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
3-3:50  p.m.  —  Study  Abroad  Informational  meeting,  sponsored  by 
International  Programs.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
3:30  p.m.  —  Women's  Tennis  vs.  St.  Michael's  College.  Pitts- 
burgh State  Field  House. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Friday,  September  26 

4  p.m.  —  Women's  Soccer  vs.  SUNY  Oswego.  Plattsburgh  State 
Field  House. 

7  p.m.  —  Meditation  Seminar  sponsored  by  CAS.  For  registration 
information  call  564-3054.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  —  Pendragon  Theatre  presents  "The  Puppetmaster  of  Lodz," 
sponsored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council.  Tickets:  $1  SA  Members, 
$5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8  general  public,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

8  p.m.  —  Champlain  Flute  Quartet  Performance,  sponsored  by  the 
Music  Council.  Admission  is  free,  reservations  encouraged  by 
calling  564-2180.  Hawkins  Hall  Recital  Hall. 

Saturday,  September  27 

9:30  a.m.  —  Family  Weekend  3-Mile  Fun  Run  and  Walk  sponsored 
by  the  Student  Health  Center.  Registration  is  at  9  a.m.  in  the  Lobby 
of  the  Student  Health  Center. 

1  p.m.  —  Women's  Soccer  vs.  SUNY  Cortland.  Plattsburgh  State 
Field  House. 

2  p.m.  —  "The  Miller's  Tale"  from  Chaucer's  The  Canterbury 
Tales.  Sponsored  by  Campus  Arts  Council.  Studio  Theatre,  Myers 
Fine  Arts  Building. 

3-4:30  p.m.  —  Family  Weekend  presents  Ice  Skating  with  Burghy. 
Skate  rentals  available.  Stafford  Ice  Arena,  Plattsburgh  State  Field 
House. 

4  p.m.  —  Phi  Eta  Sigma,  Freshman  Honor  Society,  Induction 
Ceremony.  Open  to  members  and  invited  guests  only.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  —  Pendragon  Theatre  presents  "The  Puppetmaster  of  Lodz," 
sponsored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council.  Tickets:  $1  SA  Members, 
$5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8  general  public,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 
8:30  p.m.  — The  Presidents  Speakers  Series  presents  "An  Evening 
with  Joe  Clark."  Sponsored  by  the  Offices  of  the  Presidents:  Platts- 
burgh State,  CAS,  Student  Association.  Angell  Center  Warren 
Ballrooms, 

9:30  p.m.  —  Family  Weekend  Cabaret  Night  features  the  Platts- 
burgh State  Jazz  Band  and  Gospel  Choir.  Angell  Center  Flynt 
Commons. 

Sunday,  September  28 

10  a.m.  —  Family  Weekend  Breakfast  Buffet  with  the  Presidents. 
Tickets:  $6.85  per  person,  reservations  required.  Angell  Center 
Warren  Ballrooms. 

11  a.m.  —  Ampersand  Mountain  Guided  Hike,  sponsored  by  the 
Student  Association.  Tickets:  $5  S  A  Members,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk,  includes  round  trip  bus  transportation.  Bus  departs 
from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 


6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents 
The  Fifth  Element,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets: 
$1  SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angel  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  2. 

8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

Monday,  September  29 

7:15  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Ballroom  A. 

8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Tuesday,  September  30 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all 
campus  employees  sponsored  by  the  EAP  and  Department  of 
Nursing.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  6. 

12: 15  p.m. — The  Wellness  Series  presents  Bryan  Hartman,  Project 
HELP,  speaking  on  "Community  Service  Opportunities."  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

4:15  p.m.  —  Faculty  Senate  Meeting,  open  to  the  campus.  Angell 
center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  2. 

8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

10  p.m,  —  Performance  Art,  sponsored  by  the  Music  Council. 
Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

Wednesday,  October  1 

3  p.m.  — Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building 
Room  232  (the  fish  bowl). 

3  p.m.  —  National  Student  Exchange  informational  meeting  spon- 
sored by  the  International  and  Exchange  Programs.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

4:30  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

4:30  p.m.  —  New  Faculty  Program  and  Reception,  sponsored  by 
Omicron  Delta  Kappa  Honor  Society.  Angell  Center  Cardinal 
Lounge. 

6:30  p.m.  —  SBE  Career  Launcher,  sponsored  by  the  School  of 
Business  and  Economics.  Open  to  members  only.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  —  LGB  A  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 


Special  Collections 
Feinb,erg  Lib.,  PSUC 
Poet  Not  Circulate 


ocus 


on  I Plattsburgh 

STATE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NEW  YORK 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  OCT.  2,  1997 


Plattsburgh  State  Receives  $554,600 
More  in  Funding  in  '97-98  State  Budget 


When  the  State  Legislature  approved  the 
1997-98  state  budget  this  summer,  Platts- 
burgh State  University  received 
a  $554,600  increase  over  last 
year's  state  appropriation. 

John  Homburger,  vice  presi- 
dent for  business  affairs,  said  the 
state's  funding  is  now  $28.67 
million. 

"There  seems  to  be  more  rec- 
ognition of  public  higher  educa- 
tion by  stopping  the  annual  re- 
ductions that  have  occurred  dur- 
ing the  past  seven  to  eight  years,"  said 
Homburger.  "The  increases  in  state  aid  is  a 
response,  although  it  is  a  small  increase." 

The  additional  money  is  earmarked  for 
contract  negotiated  salary  increases  (prima- 
rily with  CSEA  and  Council  82),  temporary 
services,  library  acquisitions,  equipment,  and 
utility  expenses. 

Homburger  also  said  there  will  be  some 
additional  funds  coming  from  SUNY  for 
meeting  fall  enrollment  goals. 


Homburger 


He  is  optimistic  that  some  projects,  which 
are  not  funded  directly  through  the  college' s 
budget,  will  be  given  the  go  ahead 
by  SUNY  Administration  in  Al- 
bany. They  include  redesign  of 
Amitie  Plaza,  planning  and  replace- 
ment of  the  rubber  floor  and  track 
in  the  Field  House,  and  upgrading 
of  fire  alarms  systems  on  campus. 

The  state  budget  allocated  a  total 
of  $  1 .5  billion  for  operations  of  the 
SUNY  campuses.  This  is  equal  to 
the  operating  budget  requested  by 
the  SUNY  Board  of  Trustees  last  fall,  which 
at  that  time  included  a  $34.4  million  increase 
in  State  tax  support  over  the  previous  year. 

"We  are  very  pleased  that  the  leaders  of 
our  state  have  favorably  responded  to  our 
budget  requests,"  said  SUNY  Board  of 
Trustees  Chairperson  Thomas  F.  Egan.  "This 
increased  financial  support  ensures  access, 
strengthens  academic  quality  and  helps  move 
our  university  into  the  front  ranks  of  Ameri- 
can higher  education." 


Laura  Dominy  Appointed  Financial  Aid  Director 

Laura  Dominy  has  officially  been  named  the  Director  of  Financial  Aid. 

Her  appointment  comes  after  she  was  named  interim  director  April  30 
when  Suzanne  Sokolowski,  the  long-time  head  of  the  financial  aid  office, 
retired,  and  a  lengthy  search  for  a  replacement  for  Sokolowski  proved 
fruitless. 

Laura  is  a  very  seasoned  professional  with  sound  judgement  and 
capable  of  addressing  the  changes  occurring  nationally  in  the  financial  aid 
arena,"  said  John  Homburger,  vice  president  for  business  affairs.  "She  has 
the  leadership  that  will  help  us  move  to  the  next  level."  Dominy 

Dominy  has  worked  for  Plattsburgh  State  since  coming  as  a  student  in  1972.  She  began 
in  the  Bursar  and  Payroll  offices  as  a  clerical  assistant.  Upon  graduation  from  Plattsburgh 
State  in  1976  with  a  B.A.  in  biology,  she  was  hired  as  a  staff  member  with  the  Educational 
Opportunity  Program.  She  worked  there  for  two  years,  first  as  an  assistant  to  the  learning 

(See  "Dominy  Appointed"  on  Page  3) 


Stafford  Provides 
$150,000  For  Three 
Academic  Programs 

Plattsburgh  State  has  received  a 
$150,000  member  item  from  Senator 
Ronald  B.  Stafford  to  support  the  Lake 
Champlain  Research  Institute,  the  Di  stance 
Learning  Project  in  Rural  Health  Care,  and 
the  purchase  of  equipment  for  the  mass 
media  program. 

During  the  past  seven  years,  Senator 
Stafford  has  authorized  legislative  initia- 
tives for  this  institution  totaling  more  than 
$4  million.  In  learning  of  the  latest  alloca- 
tion, President  Judson  said,  "Senator 
Stafford  deserves  the  thanks  of  our  entire 
College  community  for  his  continued  and 
long-standing  support  for  Plattsburgh  State. 
We  are  deeply  grateful  to  the  Senator  be- 
cause he  is  a  person  who  recognizes  the 
value  of  a  college  education  in  general  and 
the  quality  of  a  Plattsburgh  State  education 
in  particular." 

The  three  programs  that  will  receive 
funding  are: 

Lake  Champlain  Research  Institute. 
The  Institute  is  still  too  embryonic  to  de- 
velop an  independent  funding  stream  on  its 
own.  Since  the  current  Plattsburgh  State 
budget  cannot  support  the  additional  ex- 
pense of  the  Institute,  and  research  grants 
will  offer  only  partial  funding,  it  was  re- 
quested that  a  special  and  continuing  ap- 
propriation for  the  Institute  be  sought. 

Distance  Learning  Project  in  Rural 
Health  Care.  This  pilot  demonstration 
project  is  intended  for  the  health  primary 
application  area.  The  goal  is  to  provide 
health  information  programs  to  residents 
living  in  ten  rural,  medically  under-served, 
Northern  New  York  counties.  The  ten  coun- 
ties are  Clinton,  Essex,  Franklin,  Hamilton, 
Warren,  Washington,  St.  Lawrence, 
Jefferson,  Lewis  and  Herkimer 

Equipment  for  Television  Studios  for 
Mass  Media  Program.  The  equipment  in 
the  television  studios  is  rapidly  becoming 
outdated.  A  legislative  initiative  will  alle- 
viate using  institutional  funds  to  replace 
this  equipment. 


Shaffer  Featured  in  No  Mercy:  A  Journey  to  the  Heart  of  the  Congo 


Plattsburgh  State  Psychology  Professor  Dr.  Lary  Shaffer  would 
prefer  traveling  the  swamps  of  the  Congo  basin  to  scrapping  the 
paint  off  his  house. 

"Wouldn't  everyone?"  Shaffer  asked. 

Shaffer  actually  has  right  to  lay  claim  to  that  observa- 
tion, having  traveled  the  swamps  of  the  Congo  basin  the 
summer  of  1989  with  long-time  friend  and  travel-adven- 
ture author  Redmond  O'Hanlon,  on  a  quest  for  a  prehis- 
toric beast  rumored  to  live  deep  within  the  forest.  The  re- 
sultant book,  No  Mercy:  A  Journey  to  the  Heart  of  the 
Congo,  chronicles  the  pair's  jungle  adventures  and  misad- 
ventures in  an  often  comical,  sometimes  foreboding  narrative. 

"I  had  known  O'Hanlon  in  grad  school  and  had  wanted  to  go 
with  him  on  earlier  trips,  but  we  could  not  make  the  schedules  work," 
Shaffer  said.  "My  assignment  was  to  take  pictures  for  the  book." 
Shaffer  has  a  background  in  film  making  and  photography. 

"O'Hanlon  worked  very  hard  taking  notes  about  everything,  and 
—  inasmuch  as  the  government  permitted  me  to  —  I  worked  hard 
photographing.  We  both  spent  considerable  time  trying  to  plan  the 
next  move  as  there  was  no  public  transport  once  we  left  the  river." 


Shaffer 


Shaffer,  who  admits  he  hasn't  read  the  book,  which  has  been  out 
since  April  of  this  year,  said  he  saw  some  of  the  early  manuscript, 
"but  this  is  in  no  way  'my'  book.  It  is  O'Hanlon's  story 
about  the  trip  we  took,"  he  said. 

It  may  also  be  O'Hanlon's  movie  about  the  trip  they  took. 
There's  talk  that  a  movie  deal  has  been  discussed. 

O'Hanlon  told  Shaffer  in  a  phone  conversation  that  the 
book  "has  been  bought  by  a  Hollywood  deal-maker  who 
puts  together  packages  of  books,  stars,  directors,  etc.,  and 
tries  to  sell  them  to  studios  or  other  financial  backers," 
Shaffer  said.  "The  package  for  'No  Mercy'  included 
Harrison  Ford,  who  had  read  the  book  and  was  interested  in  play- 
ing the  character  that  O'Hanlon  has  written  as  me." 

Shaffer  said  he  last  heard  the  project  "had  about  a  one  in  50 
chance  of  actually  being  made. 

"Needless  to  say,  most  movie  deals  fall  through,  although  this 
one  has  progressed  farther  than  many  others,"  he  said. 

Shaffer  said  he  and  his  Congo  companion  keep  in  touch  regu- 
larly, "and  he  visited  us  in  Plattsburgh  last  summer  at  the  end  of  his 
American  book  tour,"  he  said. 


Seven  Year  Mystery  Resolved 


City  Hall  Plans  Found  in  Special  Collections 


City  Hall  in  Plattsburgh  was  constructed 
in  1918  by  nationally-renowned  architect 
John  Russell  Pope.  A  number  of  changes 
have  occurred  during  the  past  80  years. 

However,  no  one  has  known  for  nearly 
twenty-years  how  similar  or  different  those 
changes  have  been  in  relation  to  the  original 
architectural  drawing  for  the  Plattsburgh 
City  Hall  have  been  missing  for  many  years. 
That  is,  until  recently  when  the  original 
sketches  and  a  blueprint  were  found  among 
the  files  in  the  Special  Collections  in  Feinberg 
Library. 

The  designs  detail  the  city  hall  building 
commission's  original  floor  plans.  City  Hall 
today  is  somewhat  different  due  to  the  alter- 
ations made  over  the  years  and  to  changes 
called  for  by  Plattsburgh  citizens  after  re- 
jecting the  original  plans  in  1916. 

Working  with  Wayne  Miller,  librarian  in 
Special  Collections,  Plattsburgh  City  Clerk 
Keith  Herkalo  located  the  drawings  among 
other  documents  in  Feinberg  Library.  Al- 
though no  one  knows  exactly  when  the  draw- 
ings disappeared  from  the  city's  archives, 
Miller  said  records  indicate  that  the  designs 
were  given  to  Special  Collections  in  1 974  by 
an  anonymous  donor. 

"This  is  just  wonderful,  just  wonderful," 
said  Herkalo,  who  has  been  searching  for  the 
plans  for  the  past  seven  years.  "They  are 
great  stewards  here  and  protect  the  intellec- 


Plattsburgh  City  Clerk  Keith  Herkalo  (far  right)  explains  to  Wayne  Miller,  Special  Collections  librarian, 
Carla  Hendrix,  Special  Collections  librarian,  and  Cerise  Oberman,  dean  of  library  and  informational 
services,  that  city  residents  in  1916  objected  to  the  city  hall  building  commission's  attempt  to  approve  the 
plans  during  an  afternoon  meeting  while  most  people  were  working.  Plattsburgh  citizens  eventually  voted 
to  reject  the  plans  at  an  evening  meeting  in  the  Clinton  County  Courthouse  on  Aug.  28, 1916.  Several  changes 
were  made  and  the  facility  was  completed  two  years  later. 


tual  integrity  of  the  college." 

The  designs,  which  also  detail  the  plot 
plan  of  City  Hall  in  relation  to  MacDonough 
Monument,  were  turned  over  to  Herkalo  and 
the  City  of  Plattsburgh  on  Sept.,  24  to  be 
placed  in  the  city's  special  temperature  and 

[2] 


humidity-controlled  storage  room.  A  full- 
size  copy  of  the  drawings  will  be  made 
available  for  Special  Collections. 

Herkalo,  beaming  over  the  plans,  said,  "A 
mystery  has  come  to  an  end." 


Family  Weekend  at  Plattsburgh  State  a  Success 


Runners  head  out  for  the  three-mile  Fun  Run  and  Walk  on  Saturday  morning  during  Family  Weekend. 
Parents,  grandparents,  siblings  and  friends  had  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  a  variety  of  activities 
during  the  weekend.  Joe  Clark,  the  former  principal  who  won  fame  for  turning  Eastside  High  School  in 
Paterson,  N.I,  into  a  model  educational  institution,  was  the  guest  speaker  during  the  weekend. 


Kick-off  Set  For  Oct.  16 

SEFA  Appeal  Reaches  for  $35,000 

Reaching  for  old  heights"  is  the  theme  at  Plattsburgh  State  as  the  State  employees 
Federated  Appeal  kick-off  Sept.  1 6. 

Marlyn  Cotter,  one  of  the  campus  coordinators  for  the  SEFA  campaign  along  with 
John  Homburger  and  Peter  Luguri,  said,  "Our  goal  this  year  is  to  reach  $35,000.  The 
high  number  of  employees  retiring  during  the  past  two  years  has  had  a  dramatic  impact 
on  our  support  of  charitable  organizations  in  our  area." 

Last  falTs  appeal  at  state  agencies  in  Clinton  and  Essex  counties  raised  $93,680.68, 
down  from  the  1996  appeal  total  of  $98,394. 

Plattsburgh  State  was  one  of  eight  agencies  where  charitable  support  decreased  in 
the  1 997  appeal  from  the  previous  year.  Contributions  by  Plattsburgh  State  employees 
last  fall  reached  $33,445,  down  from  the  previous  year's  amount  of  $36,025. 

"We  hope  everyone  here  can  give  just  a  little  more  toward  their  favorite  organiza- 
tions," said  Cotter. 

The  kick-off  breakfast  for  coordinators  will  be  held  Thursday,  Oct.  16,  at  8:30  a.m. 
in  the  Plattsburgh  Room,  Angell  College  Center. 


Dominy  Appointed  (Continued  From  Page  1 ) 


consultant  and  later  as  a  graduate  assistant. 

In  1978,  Dominy  was  hired  as  a  financial 
aid  advisor  and  the  college  work-study  pro- 
gram coordinator  in  the  financial  aid  office. 
She  was  promoted  to  assistant  director  of 
financial  aid  and  federal  work-study  coordi- 
nator in  1985. 

She  has  taken  an  active  role  on  several 
committees,  including:  Adult  Learning  Ser- 
vices Steering  Committee,  Faculty  Senate; 


UUP  Employees  Assistant  Program  Com- 
mittee; Sexual  Harassment  Advisors  Net- 
work; Committee  to  Organize  Semester 
Opening;  Minority  Concerns  Committee; 
Data  Base  Users  Group;  Transfer  Project 
Committee;  Cooperative  Education  Steer- 
ing Committee:  Faculty  Affairs  Committee 
for  Student  Affairs;  Student  Affairs  United 
Way  Fund  Drive,  and  search  committees  for 
Admissions,  Upward  Bound  and  EOP. 

[3] 


Robert  Tabor  Named 
Personnel  Director 


Robert  R.  Tabor  has  received  a  promotion 
to  director  of  personnel  at  Plattsburgh  State. 

Tabor  has  been  senior 
personnel  associate  since 
December  1989. 

His  promotion  to  di- 
rector of  personnel  has 
been  long  overdue,"  said 
I  \  fl^B  John  Homburger,  vice 
president  for  business  af- 
fairs. "Bob  has  been  op- 


Tab  or 


erating  as  director  without  the  title.  We  took 
the  opportunity  to  promote  him  based  on  his 
work  performance  and  his  total  commitment 
to  the  campus  and  everyone  working  here." 

Under  Tabor' s  leadership,  the  department 
has  been  responsible  for  employee  relations, 
training  and  professional  development,  ben- 
efits administration,  classification  and  com- 
pensation, time  and  attendance,  recruitment 
appointment,  separation,  employee  date  base 
and  legal  compliance. 

He  came  to  Plattsburgh  State  in  1989 
from  Maiden  Mills  Industries,  Inc.,  in 
Lawrence,  Mass.,  where  he  was  manager  of 
personnel,  industrial  engineering  and  safety. 
He  has  previously  worked  at  the  former 
Harris  Graphics  Corporation  facility  in 
Champlain,  and  General  Railway  Signal 
Company  in  Rochester. 

He  hold  a  bachelor's  degree  in  industrial 
management  from  Rochester  Institute  of 
Technology.  Tabor  has  been  a  member  of 
several  campus  committees  and  is  currently 
the  chair  of  the  Campus  Safety  Committee. 
He  is  also  active  in  several  community  orga- 
nizations  including  the  Lions  club  and  the 
Champlain  Management  Club. 

In  addition  to  supervising  the  personnel 
department,  Tabor  has  been  resp9nsible  for 
the  college' s  affirmative  action  program  fol- 
lowing the  departure  of  Janet  Saunders  this 
summer.  Interviews  with  candidates  for  that 
position  will  begin  this  week. 


An  academic  advisor  for  undeclared  stu- 
dents, Dominy  has  also  acted  as  a  mentor  for 
the  Student  at  Risk  and  the  Phoenix  pro- 
gram. She  is  the  advisor  to  the  co-ed  national 
service  fraternity  Alpha  Phi  Omega. 

She  is  a  member  of  Alpha  Phi  Omega, 
Alpha  Sigma  Lambda,  and  several  other 
professional  organizations.  Dominy  also 
participates  in  many  community  volunteer 
programs. 


Induction  Ceremony  Oct.  19th 

Jamison,  Rees,  Teague  Named  to  Sports  Hall  of  Fame 


Three  outstanding  former  athletes  at 
Plattsburgh  State  will  be  inducted  into  the 
Cardinal  Sports  Hall  of  Fame  on  Sunday, 
October  19. 

This  year's  selection  committee 
unanimously  elected  Richard  Jamison 
'58,  Lucy  Walbridge  Rees  '81,  and 
Bruce  Teague  '76  for  induction. 

Jamison  was  an  outstanding  player 
for  both  the  soccer  and  basketball  teams 
at  Plattsburgh  State.  He  co-captained  the 
basketball  team  for  two  years,  held  the 
best  free  throw  average  for  two  and  the  as- 
sist average  for  two.  Captain  of  the  soccer 
team  for  three  years,  Jamison  was  the  team 
high  scorer  for  three  years  and  held  the 
record  for  most  career  goals  at  that  time. 
MVP  for  two  years,  he  was  named  to  the 
SUNY  All-Conference  Team  twice  and  was 
the  Athlete  of  the  Year  twice. 

An  education  major  at  Plattsburgh  State, 
he  taught  elementary  education  and  later 
health  and  physical  education  for  many  years 
on  Long  Island  prior  to  assuming  the  post  of 
Director  of  Athletics  at  Dowling  College.  He 
is  now  retired. 

Jamison's  interest  in  soccer  has  been  a 
lifelong  pursuit  and  he  has  been  very  active 
in  local,  regional,  statewide  and  national 
soccer  events  and  associations.  To  list  just  a 
few  of  his  activities,  Jamison  has  served  as 
presidentof  the  National  Intercollegiate  Soc- 
cer Officials  Association  (NISOA),  national 
director  of  the  NISOA  Referees  Training 
Camps  in  several  states,  New  York  State 
Chairman  of  the  Eastern  College  Soccer 
Association,  NISOA  liaison  to  the  United 


TAC  Publications  Go  On-Line 


Internet  users  now  have  round-the-clock 
access  to  two  popular  sources  of  regional 
data  and  economic  development  information 
from  the  Technical  Assistance  Center. 

TAC  has  uploaded  onto  its  homepage.  A 
Guide  to  State,  Regional,  County  and  Local 
Business  Financing  Programs  for  Northern 
New  York,  information  about  non-bank 
sources  for  business  financing  in  the  16 
upstate  counties.  Also  available  is  the  Eco- 
nomic and  Demographic  Characteristics  of 
16  New  York  Counties, —  34  tables  of  eco- 
nomic and  demographic  data  for  the  region. 

This  information,  which  is  also  available 
in  hard  copy,  is  located  on  the  Web  at 
www.plattsburgh.edu/tac. 


States  Special  Olympics,  and  national  coor- 
dinator of  the  Adidas  Academic  All- Ameri- 
can in  the  United  States  for  Men. 


Jamison  Rees  Teague 

His  list  of  awards  is  also  lengthy.  He  was 
named  NYS  NCAA  Division  II  Coach  of  the 
Year  three  times,  received  the  1984  Honor 
Award  given  by  the  NISOA,  has  been  in- 
cluded in  numerous  editions  of  Who's  Who 
and  was  inducted  into  the  National  Soccer 
Hall  of  Fame  in  1980. 

He  has  a  master's  degree  in  health  educa- 
tion from  New  York  University. 

Rees  was  a  member  of  the  women's  var- 
sity swim  team  for  four  years.  Co-Captain 
for  two  years,  she  set  individual  school  records 
in  the  50, 60, 1 00  and  200  yard  freestyle.  She 
was  a  member  of  relay  teams  that  held  school 
records  in  the  200-yard  medley,  200-yard 
freestyle  and  400-yard  freestyle  relays.  Rees 
qualified  for  the  NYS  AIAW  Division  III 
championships  three  times  and  she  placed 
well  in  several  of  her  events. 

A  home  economics  teacher  in  Hudson, 
NY  for  the  past  fifteen  years,  Rees  currently 
chairs  the  department.  During  her  college 
years,  she  was  a  member  of  Phi  Upsilon 
Omicron  and  Kappa  Delta  Pi,  the  national 
honor  societies  in  home  economics  and  edu- 
cation, respectively. 


She  has  coached  the  varsity  boys'  and 
girls'  swim  team  and  the  synchronized  swim 
team  at  Hudson  City  School,  and  has  also 
coached  for  the  City  of  Hudson's  Youth 
Department  and  a  U.S.S.  swim  club. 
She  is  active  in  numerous  community 
service  activities,  including  Girls  Scouts 
and  the  American  Red  Cross. 

Rees  earned  a  masters  degree  in  edu- 
cation from  SUNY  Albany. 

Teague  excelled  in  track  and  cross- 
country at  Plattsburgh  State  and  was  a 
two-time  NCAA  Division  III  All-America, 
once  in  each  sport.  He  set  school  track  records 
in  the  mile,  two-mile  and  three-mile  indoor 
events,  as  well  as  the  six-mile  outdoor  event. 
He  was  the  SUNY  AC  cross-country  cham- 
pion in  1974  and  1975,  the  SUNY  AC  mile 
and  three-mile  champion  in  1976  and,  in 
1980,  was  an  Olympic  Trials  qualifier  in  the 
marathon.  Teague  was  named  the  SUNY 
Chancellor's  Scholar-Athlete  of  the  Year  in 
1975-76. 

A  secondary  education/mathematics  ma- 
jorat Plattsburgh  State,  Teague  teaches  math 
at  Santa  Fe  Community  College  in 
Gainesville.  He  has  a  master's  degree  in 
teaching  from  the  University  of  Florida. 

Teague  has  been  youth  soccer  and  select 
soccer  coach  since  1990,  has  been  active 
with  the  Florida  Track  Club  for  many  years, 
and  has  also  been  active  with  United  Way. 

The  induction  ceremony  will  take  place 
in  the  Warren  Ballroom,  Angell  College 
Center,  10  a.m.,  Oct.  19.  Tickets  are  avail- 
able by  contacting  the  Alumni  Office  at  ext. 
3090. 


Roberta  Allen,  Visiting  Writer/Artist  to  Visit  Campus 

Roberta  Allen,  well-known  author  and  conceptual  artist,  will  give  three  presenta- 
tions on  campus  Oct.  8th  and  9th. 

On  Oct.  8th,  at  8  P.M.,  Allen  will  give  a  reading  from  her  new  collection  of  short 
stories,  Certain  People,  in  the  CVH  Commons. 

She  will  give  a  talk  entitled  "Amazon  Dream:  Traveling  Alone  in  the  Peruvian  Ama- 
zon" for  the  Womyn's  Forum  on  Oct.  9th  at  noon.  Allen  will  also  present  a  slide  show 
of  her  artwork  entitled  "Redefining  Signs:  Installations  and  Works  on  Paper,"  that 
evening  at  8  p.m.,  in  the  Cardinal  Lounge  of  Angell  College  Center. 

Roberta  Allen  is  the  author  of  five  books:  Amazon  Dream,  an  account  of  her  travels 
alone  in  the  Amazon  Wilderness,  The  Traveling  Woman,  The  Daughter,  Five  Minute 
Fiction,  and  Certain  People.  She  is  one  of  the  first  of  the  conceptual  artists  of  the  early 
seventies.  Her  artwork  is  included  in  collections  at  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  the 
Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art,  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  the  Cooper-Hewitt  Museum, 
and  the  Yale  University  Collection. 

Allen's  activities  on  campus  are  sponsored  by  College  Auxiliary  Services,  Poets  & 
Writers,  Inc.,  and  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Arts  and  Science. 


[4] 


§POTlIGHT 


Dr.  Sylvie  Beaudreau 
Dr.  George  Flynn 
Dr.  Lise  Heroux 
Dr.  James  Csipak 
Carla  List 
Roger  Williams 


Beaudreau 


Dr.  Sylvie  Beaudreau, 

assistant  professor  of  his- 
tory, will  present  a  paper 
in  Ottawa  at  an  Oct.  5th 
conference  honoring  the 
retirement  of  Ramsay 
Cook,  one  of  Canada's 
foremost  historians.  The 
paper,  entitled  "Observa- 
tions of  a  Perpetual  Outsider:  Quebec  and 
the  English  Canadian  Question"  examines 
how  the  economic,  political  and  cultural  evo- 
lution of  Quebec  has  increased  Quebec's 
sense  of  separatism  during  the  last  30  years. 
The  presentation  is  made  possible  with  fund- 
ing from  the  Center  for  the  Study  of  Canada. 
On  Oct.  12-14,  she  will  attend  the  28th  An- 
nual Leadership  Conference  of  the  Ameri- 
can Center  For  The  Study  of  the  Presidency 
in  Ottawa.  The  theme  of  this  conference  will 
be  "Canadian  and  American  Relations  in  the 
New  Millennium." 

Dr.  George  Flynn,  pro- 
fessor of  physics,  has  had 
an  article  published  in 
Nature  Magazine  (May 
1997).  Flynn  states  in 
"Collecting  Interstellar 
Dust  Grains,"  that  small 
interplanetary  dust  par- 
ticles may  survive  vapor- 
izing in  the  Earth's  atmosphere  when  the 
Earth  is  moving  in  the  opposite  direction  of 
the  Sun. 


Flvnn 


Csipak 


Dr.  Lise  Heroux,  asso- 
ciate professor  of  market- 
ing, and  Dr.  James 
Csipak,  assistant  profes- 
sor of  marketing,  have 
been  elected  officers  in 
the  Tourism  and  Hospital- 
ity Management  Division 
of  the  Administrative  Sci- 
ences Association  of 
Canada.  Heroux,  who  was 
programme  chair,  was 
elected  division  chair  for 
the  1997-98  year.  Csipak, 
the  academic  reviewer 
and  editor  of  1997  ASAC 
Tourism  and  Hospitality 
Management  Proceedings,  replaces  Heroux 
as  programme  chair. 

Carla  List,  librarian, 
was  named  Librarian  of 
the  Year  by  the  Eastern 
New  York  Chapter  of  the 
Association  for  College 
and  Research  Libraries. 
The  new  edition  of  her 
book,  An  Introduction  to 
Information  Research, 
was  recently  published  by  Kendall/Hunt 
Publishing  Company  and  is  being  used  in 
all  our  LIB  101  classes.  Her  book  has  also 
been  adopted  by  many  other  colleges  nation- 
wide. 

Roger  Williams,  pro- 
fessor of  art,  has  several 
pieces  of  his  color  pho- 
tography included  in  the 
"1997  Adirondack  Life 
Juried  Art  Exhibition." 
Selection  was  made  from 
more  than  100  artists  who 
submitted  works.  The  ex- 
hibition opened  Sept.  12  and  runs 
through  Oct.  1 8  at  the  Lake  Placid^  *}W 
Center  for  the  Arts  Gallery.  ^ 


List 


Williams 


"War  and  Its  Uses" 
Symposium  Opens 
This  Evening 

The  sixth  interdisciplinary 
symposium,"War  and  its  Uses:  Con- 
flict and  Creativity,"  in  the  "Pitts- 
burgh Studies  in  the  Humanities"  se- 
ries begins  this  evening  and  runs 
through  Saturday  . 

The  symposium  opens  this  evening 
with  the  7:30  p.m.  showing  of  the  film 
Nikolaikirche  in  200  Yokum  Hall.  The 
films  tells  the  story  of  a  family  in 
Leipzig  during  the  trouble-some  years 
from  1 987  until  the  street  demonstra- 
tions in  October  1989,  which  led  to  the 
downfall  of  EastGermany  and  the  sub- 
sequent fall  of  the  Berlin  Wall. 

The  symposium  will  continue  Fri- 
day 9  a.m.  -  8  p.m.  and  Saturday, 
9  a.m.  -  4  p.m.  in  the  Cardinal  Lounge 
of  Angell  College  Center. 

All  lectures  and  presentations  are 
free  and  open  to  the  public. 


Register  to  Vote  by  Oct.  10 

Are  you  eligible  to  vote  in  the  Nov.  4 
election? 

If  not,  you  still  have  time  to  complete  a 
registration  form  by  the  Oct.  10  deadline. 

The  forms  are  available  at  the  Student 
Association  office  or  the  Office  of  the  Dean 
of  Students  in  Angell  College  Center. 


Faculty  Encouraged  to  Participate  in  International  Recruitment  Program 


Plattsburgh  State  has  taken  several  steps 
to  increase  the  number  of  international  stu- 
dents in  the  undergraduate  population. 

Edward  Engelbride,  assistant  to  the  asso- 
ciate provost,  said  students  in  approximately 
30  countries  are  targeted  through  the  Interna- 
tional Student  Recruitment  Program.  He  said 
that  a  number  of  efforts  are  underway  to 
attract  more  international  students  including 
informational  mailings  to  select  locations, 
networking  with  embassies,  personalized  cor- 
respondences, and  the  use  of  existing  tech- 


nologies to  communicate  more  efficiently 
with  applicants. 

While  these  efforts  will  result  in  increases 
in  the  number  of  inquiries,  personalized  con- 
tact is  one  of  the  most  effective  recruitment 
strategies,"  said  Engelbride.  Faculty  travel- 
ing abroad  to  speak  at  international  confer- 
ences, conduct  research,  vacation  or  partici- 
pate in  cultural  exchanges  would  be  excel- 
lent ''recruitment  ambassadors"  for  the  col- 
lege. 

Faculty  participating  in  this  program 

[5] 


would  be  asked  to  meet  with  a  guidance 
counselor,  educational  advisor,  or  embassy 
official  and  provide  information  about  our 
college,  our  academic  programs,  scholar- 
ship opportunities,  as  well  as  the  English 
language  support  program." 

Engelbride  said,  "Everyone  can  play  an 
important  role  in  attracting  new  students  to 
Plattsburgh  State."  Interested  individuals  can 
contact  Engelbride  in  the  Student  Affairs 
office  at  564-2280. 


Cardinal  Sports 


Remain  Unbeaten  (4-0)  In  SUNYAC 

Cardinal  Men's  Soccer  Team  Sweeps  Games  on  The  Road 


The  Pittsburgh  State  men* s  soccer  team 
had  a  successful  road  trip,  defeating  Os- 
wego and  Cortland  to  stay  a  perfect  4-0  in 
the  State  University  of  New  York  athletic 
Conference  and  improve  to  6-1-0  overall. 

Friday,  the  Cardinals  got  a  five-point 
effort  (2  goals,  1  assist)  from  junior  Mike 
Paolini  of  Liverpool,  to  roll  past  Oswego 
3-2.  Paolini  tallied  twice  in  the  first  half, 
both  assisted  by  Pat  McMahon,  a  sopho- 
more from  Scottsville,  to  put  Plattsburgh 
up  2-1  at  the  intermission.  The  men 
wasted  no  time  getting  their  third  and  fi- 
nal goal  of  the  game.  With  just  over  a 
minutes  elapsed  in  the  second  stanza, 
sophomore  Christian  Gondek  from  Chazy, 
scored  off  a  double  assist  from  Paolini  and 
junior  Kevin  Riddleberger  of  Endicott,  to 
seal  the  victory  for  Plattsburgh. 

On  Saturday,  the  men  completed  the 
weekend  sweep  with  a  2-0  victory  over 
Cortland.  Junior  Phil  Lombardo  of 


Holtsville  put  the  Cardinals  on  the 
board  at  20:50  of  the  first  half  with  a 
goal  assisted  by  Riddleberger  to  give 
the  men  a  1-0  advantage  at  the  half. 
Gondek  provided  Plattsburgh  with 
an  insurance  goal  less  than  two  min- 
utes into  the  second  half,  blasting  a 
cross  from  Marc  Hinds,  a  freshman 
from  Rochester,  into  the  back  of  the 
Cortland  net. 

Andrew  Cumbo,  a  sophomore  from 
Fairport  made  three  saves  and  Mike 
Kuznia,  a  freshman  from  Syracuse, 
made  five  saves  to  combine  for  the 
shutout. 

The  men's  soccer  team,  currently 
first  place  in  the  SUNYAC,  second  in 
New  York  State,  and  ranked  15th  in 
the  nation,  take  a  break  from  their 
conference  schedule  to  face  non-con- 
ference opponent  Thomas  College 
from  Maine  on  Saturday,  Oct.  4. 


Cardinal  star  Mike  Paolini  of  Liverpool  knows  how  to 
handle  the  ball  while  his  opponent  falls  behind. 


Children 's  Book  Illustrator 

DuQuette  to  Speak  Oct.  6 

Keith  DuQuette,  an  artist  and  children's 
book  illustrator,  will  speak  at  Plattsburgh 
State  Monday,  Oct.  6,  at  7:30  p.m.  in  the 
Cardinal  Lounge  of  Angell  College  Center. 

DuQuette  will  speak  about  his  public/ 
mass-produced  books  and  his  private  unique 
paintings,  addressing  the  wonders  and  pit- 
falls of  navigating  between  the  to  worlds. 

He  has  three  publications  with  Viking 
Press:  A  Ripping  Day  for  a  Picnic  (1990); 
Happy  as  a  Tapir  (1992);  and  Hotel  Animal 
(1994),  which  was  recently  featured  on  the 
PBS  program  Reading  Rainbow. 

DuQuette  holds  a  bachelor  of  fine  arts 
degree  from  SUNY  Purchase  where  he  ma- 
jored in  painting. 

His  lecture  is  being  sponsored  by  the 
Campus  Arts  Council's  Visual  Artist  Series. 


Correction 

Two  names  were  inadvertently  left  out 
of  the  Faculty-Staff  Honor  Roll.  Patty 
Bentley,  librarian,  is  a  member  of  the 
President's  Club.  Dr.  and  Mrs.  James 
Olmstead,  professor  emeritus  of  ge- 
ology, are  members  of  the  Dean's  Club. 
We  apologize  for  the  omissions. 


Student  Ambassadors  "Blindly"  Accomplish  Ropes  Course 


Student  Ambassadors  got  together  recently  to  participate  in  the  Ropes  Course  at 
Valcour  Conference  Center.  Bryan  Hartman,  director  of  service  learning  and  leader- 
ship in  Campus  Life,  and  Danielle  Devins,  a  graduate  assistant,  lead  the  group  through 
some  of  the  activities.  The  students,  blindfolded  for  this  demonstration,  had  to  talk 
with  each  other  to  get  through  the  course.  The  Student  Ambassadors  assisted  during 
Family  Weekend.  They  will  be  around  campus  in  their  bright  blue  blazers  during 
Homecoming  Weekend.,  Oct.  16  -  19. 


[6] 


ocus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 


THURSDAY,  OCTOBER  2  -  WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  15 
Unless  otherwise  noted,  all  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public. 


Thursday,  Oct.  2 

12:10-1  p.m.  -  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Debbie 
Stewart  speaking  on  "Sexual  Assault  Nurse  Examiners  at  CVPH." 
Sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies  Program  with  assistance  from 
CAS.  Angell  Center,  Cardinal  Lounge. 

4:30  p.m.  -  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Dr.  Priscilla 

Myers,  Educational  Studies  speaking  on  "Test  Anxiety."  Sponsored 

by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

5  p.m.  -  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 

Room. 

7:30  p.m.  -  War  and  its  Uses:  Conflict  and  Creativity  Symposium 
presents  the  film 
Nikolaikirche,  (German  with 
English  Subtitles.)  Sponsored 
by  the  Offices  of  the  Presi- 
dent and  Academic  Provost. 
Yokum  CL  200. 

8  p.m.  -  Organization  for 
Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly 
meeting.,  Angell  Center  Con- 
ference Room. 

9  p.m.  -  Adirondack  Experi- 
ence Club  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 


flalional  Deptessien  ^cuminq  Day 
Thursday,  Oct.  9 
9  a.m.  -  4  p.m. 
Angell  College  Center,  Flynt  Commons 

Free  Depressions  Screenings 
Informational  Presentation  —  1:15  p.m. 


1  p.m.  -  Men's  Soccer  vs.  Thomas.  Field  House. 

I  p.m.  -  Women's  Volleyball  hosts  the  Cardinal  Classic  with  games 
against  Russell  Sage  and  Clarkson.  Field  House. 

Sunday,  Oct.  5 

I I  a.m.  -  Cascade  Mountain  Guided  Hike,  sponsored  by  the  Student 
Association.  Tickets:  $5  S  A  Members,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center 
Desk,  includes  round  trip  bus  transportation.  Bus  departs  from  the 
Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

6  p.m.  -  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  -  Sunday 
Night  at  the  Movies  Series  pre- 
sents .Con  Air  sponsored  by  the 
Student  Association.  Tickets  $1 
SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on 
sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ball- 
rooms. 

7:30  p.m.  -  Club  Kreol  weekly 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  2. 


For  more  information,  call  564-3086. 


Sponsored  by  the  Counseling  and  Psychological  Resource  Center  and 
Northeastern  New  York  Association  for  Counseling  and  Development 


Friday,  Oct.  3 
9  a.m. -8  p.m.  -  War  and  its 
Uses:  Conflict  and  Creativity 
Symposium,  sponsored  by  the 
Offices  of  the  President  and 
Academic  Provost.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
4  p.m.  -  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
4  p.m.  -  ODK  monthly  meeting  of  the  membership.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

4:30-6  p.m.  -  AKEB  A  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

6  p.m.  -  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

9  p.m.  -  Open  Mic  Program  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie,  Plattsburgh 
State  Student.  Java  Jo's,  Angell  Center. 

Saturday,  Oct.  4 

9  a.m.-5:30  p.m.  -  Bus  to  Montreal,  sponsored  by  Campus  Life. 
Tickets:  $10  round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Bus 
departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 
9  a.m. -4  p.m.  -  War  and  its  Uses:  Conflict  and  Creativity  Sympo- 
sium, sponsored  by  the  Offices  of  the  President  and  Academic 
Provost.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

9:30  a.m.  -  Defensive  Driving  Course,  sponsored  by  the  Student 
Association.  Registration  fee:  $10  SA  Members,  $13  faculty/staff, 
$15  public,  payable  at  the  SA  Office.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh 
Room. 


Monday,  Oct.  6 
8  a.m.-  American  College  Test 
Prep,  sponsored  by  CAS.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
12-1  p.m.  -  Special  Women's 
Studies  Forum:  Felicity  Hill, 
Women's  International  League 
for  Peace  and  Freedom,  speak- 
ing on  "Why  Be  An  Activist?"  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
7:15  p.m.  -  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  7. 

7:30  p.m.  -  Visual  Artist  Series  presents  Keith  Duquette,  sponsored 
by  the  Campus  Arts  Council.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
7:30  p.m.  -  Campus  Poets  Series  presents  Alea  Harkawik,  spon- 
sored by  the  Department  of  Foreign  Language  and  Literature  and  the 
Faculty  of  Arts  and  Science.  Newman  Center,  90  Broad  Street. 
8  p.m.  -  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 
8  p.m.  -  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
8  p.m.  -  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Tuesday,  Oct.  7 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  -  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all 
campus  employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

11-  11:50  a.m.  -  Informational  meeting  for  the  National  Student 
Exchange  Program,  sponsored  by  the  Office  for  International  Pro- 
grams. Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

12-  2  p.m.  -  UUP  Retiree  Group  Luncheon  meeting,  open  to  mem- 
bers only.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

12  p.m.  -  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell 


[7] 


Center  Meeting  Room  6. 

12:15  p.m.  -  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Bryan  Hartman 
speaking  on  "Approaching  Life  with  a  Positive  Attitude,"  sponsored 
by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 
7  p.m.  -  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  -  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  -  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  2. 

8:15  p.m.  -  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meet- 
ing Room  8. 

9  p.m.  -  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  -  Joint  Faculty  Chamber  Recital,  sponsored  by  the  Music 
Council.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

Wednesday,  Oct.  8 

10  a.m.-3  p.m.  -  US  Marine  Corps  information  table,  sponsored  by 
the  Career  Services  Center.  Angell  Center  Lobby. 

3  p.m.  -  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building 
Room  232. 

4:30  p.m.  -  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

6  p.m.  -  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

6:30  p.m.  -  SBE  Career  Launcher' s  second  Seminar:  "Networking," 
presented  by  Mr.  Richard  Lagiewski.  Sponsored  by  the  School  of 
Business  and  Economics.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  -  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
10  p.m.  -  S  A  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Thursday,  Oct.  9 

9  a.m.-  4  p.m.  -  Depression  Screening  sponsored  by  the  Counseling 
and  Psychological  Resource  Center.  Angell  Center  Flynt  Com- 
mons. 

12:10-1  p.m.  -  The  Women's  Studies  Forum,  sponsored  by  the 
Women's  Studies  Program  with  assistance  from  CAS.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

4:30  p.m.  -  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Kristina 
Opalka,  Counseling  Center,  speaking  on  "Relationships/Communi- 
cation." Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 
Room. 

5  p.m.  -  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

6:30  p.m.  -  Benefit  Trust  Workshop  sponsored  by  the  Psychology 
Department.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m.  -  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting., 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  -  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

Friday,  Oct.  10 

9:30  a.m.  -  Benefit  Trust  Workshop  sponsored  by  the  Psychology 

Department.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

3:30  p.m.  -  Women's  Soccer  vs.  SUNY  Fredonia.  Field  House. 

4  p.m.  -  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
4:30-6  p.m.  -  AKEBA  weekly  r  ning.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 


6  p.m.  -  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

Saturday,  Oct.  11 

I  p.m.  -  Women's  Soccer  vs.  Buffalo  State.  Field  House. 
Sunday,  Oct.  12 

6  p.m.  -  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  -  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents 
.  Grosse  Pointe  Blank  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets 
$  1  SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

7:30  p.m.  -  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 

Room  2. 

Monday,  Oct.  13 

(NO  CLASSES  -  COLUMBUS  DAY  OBSERVED) 

Tuesday,  Oct.  14 

(NO  CLASSES  --  COLUMBUS  DAY  OBSERVED) 

II  a.m.-l  p.m.  -  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all 
campus  employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

12  p.m.  -  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  6. 

7  p.m.  -  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  -  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7  p.m.  -  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  2. 

8:15  p.m.  -  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meet- 
ing Room  8. 

9  p.m.  -  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  Oct.  15 

3  p.m.  -  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building 
Room  232. 

4:30  p.m.  -  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

6  p.m.  -  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

6:30  p.m.  -  SBE  Career  Launcher's  third  Seminar:  "Job  Sources  and 
the  Web,"  presented  by  Dr.  Robert  Christopherson  and  Mr.  Mark 
Kaiser.  Sponsored  by  the  School  of  Business  and  Economics. 
Hawkins  Hall  053D. 

7  p.m.  -  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

10  p.m.  -  S  A  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 


i8] 


Special  Collection* 
Feinberg  Lib.,  PSUC 
Doet  Not  Circulate 


on 


OCUS 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  October  17,  1997 

Area  Schools  Benefit  From  Community  Service  Scholarships 


Kimberly  Accettella  is  no  stranger  to  per- 
forming community  service. 

The  17-year-old  Plattsburgh  State  fresh- 
man, majoring  in  special  elementary  educa- 
tion, has  been  involved  in  volunteer  services 
since  she  could  walk  in  her  Babylon,  Long 
Island  home. 

So  it  was  no  surprise  she  applied  for,  and 
was  granted,  one  of  10  community  service 
scholarships  funded  by  the  Office  of  Cam- 
pus Life  this  year. 

"One  of  the  prerequisites  of  the  scholar- 
ship is  a  history  of  community  service," 
Accettella  said.  "My  dad  is  involved  in  poli- 
tics at  home,  and  I've  been  helping  out  on 
his  campaigns  since  I  was  a  little  girl.  I've 
always  been  involved.  I  served  as  a  tutor  for 
two  years  to  a  girl  in  special  education.  I've 
done  beach  clean-ups  every  summer  (on  Fire 
Island).  My  senior  year  in  high  school  I  per- 
formed 300  hours  of  community  service." 

The  Plattsburgh  State  opportunity  came 
in  the  form  of  a  letter  Accettella  received  in 
the  mail.  "I  had  to  fill  out  an  application, 
which  was  essentially  seven  mini-essays," 
she  said.  'The  number  of  applicants  were 


cut  down  to  finalists,  and  they  took  the 
top  10." 

Bryan  Hartman,  coordinator  of  the 
program  in  the  Office  of  Campus  Life, 
sent  a  mailing  to  all  incoming  freshmen 
and  transfer  students  accepted  into  the 
college  describing  community  service 
on  campus  and  the  opportunity  to  ap- 
ply for  the  scholarship. 

'There  is  an  application  and  inter- 
view process,"  he  said.  "A  committee 
set  up  by  Provost  Thomas  Moran  re- 
views the  finalists'  folders  and  recom- 
mends 10  recipients,"  he  said.  "The  de- 
cision is  based  on  past  participation  in 
service,  letters  of  recommendations, 
interviews  (and)  a  sense  of  a  commit- 
ment to  service." 

Recipients  get  $500  per  semester  to- 
ward tuition  from  the  Plattsburgh  Col- 
lege Foundation;  $100  per  semester  to- 
ward the  meal  plan  from  College  Aux- 
iliary Services;  and  half  off  room  rent 
for  a  double  room  on  campus. 

Accettella  works  12  hours  a  week  at 
Cumberland  Head  Elementary  School  help- 


Freshman  Sarah  Greene  cuddles  one  of  the  children  she 
works  with  at  Cham  plain  Valley  Tech  as  part  of  her  com- 
munity service. 

ing  out  in  grades  3,  4  and  5  and  in  a  special 
education  class. 

(See  "Community  Service"  on  Page  2) 


Zelda  Holcomb,  Chris  Pak  Named  to  SUNY  Alumni  Honor  Roll 


Plattsburgh  State  has 
nominated  two  alumni  for 
the  1997  SUNY  Alumni 
Honor  Roll. 

Dr.  Zelda  Holcomb, 
Class  of  1971,  was  nomi- 
nated for  her  significant 
Holcomb  Pak  contributions  to  higher 

education  and  for  her  outstanding  success  in  her  profession. 

Dr.  Koon  Yan  "Chris"  Pak,  a  1974  graduate  of  Plattsburgh 
State,  was  selected  for  his  significant  contributions  in  education, 
particularly  in  the  field  of  science,  and  for  his  eminent  accom- 
plishments in  his  profession. 


The  two  will  be  honored  at  the  SUNY  Alumni  Conference  on 
Nov.  15  in  Binghamton. 

Holcomb  is  currently  chief  of  educational  accountability  for  the 
180  schools  in  the  Baltimore  City  Public  School  system.  Her 
office  initiates  programs  to  hold  schools  and  teachers  accountable 
for  student  achievement. 

She  graduated  from  Plattsburgh  State  in  1971  and  earned  her 
master' s  degree  in  educational  psychology  from  the  College  of  St. 
Rose  in  Albany  and  her  Ph.D.  in  educational  research  at  the  Ohio 
State  University  in  Columbus,  Ohio. 

Holcomb  has  worked  in  various  educational  positions  includ- 
ing posts  with  the  College  of  St.  Rose,  University  of  Delaware, 
(See  "SUNY Alumni  Honor  Roll"  on  Page  2) 


Welcome  Alumni  to  Homecoming  '97  October  17  - 19 


Dr.  Hiroshi  Itoh  to  "Probe"  Japan's  Judicial  Minds 


Itoh 


Japanese  judges  and  the  I 
decisions  they  make  will 
be  scrutinized  in  an  18- 
month  project  being 
mounted  by  a  Plattsburgh 
State  political  science  pro- 
fessor. 

Dr.  Hiroshi  Itoh,  an  ex- 
pert in  the  field  of  Japanese 
law,  has  been  awarded  a  $52,590  U.S.  De- 
partment of  Education/Fulbright-Hays  Fac- 
ulty Research  Abroad  grant  to  "probe 
(Japan's)  judicial  minds  through  the  infor- 
mation coming  directly  from  the  judges' 
mouths,"  Itoh  writes  in  his  grant  application. 

The  project,  called  "Constitutional  Liti- 
gation in  Japan:  How  Judges  Think  They 
Decide,"  Itoh  will  conduct  a  series  of  inter- 
views with  Supreme  Court  justices  and  other 
decision  makers  like  law  clerks,  lower  court 
judges  and  private  attorneys. 

"Each  justice  responded  orally  to  a  set  of 
questions  ranging  from  personal  back- 
grounds to  his  activities  in  the  courtroom," 
Itoh  said.  "Judicial  accounts  of  interactions 
among  co-decision  makers  contains  a  wealth 
of  information  on  both  the  psychological  and 


sociological  dimensions  of  the  judicial 
thought  process."  Narratives  were  cross- 
checked with  those  of  other  justices  for  ac- 
curacy and  credibility,  Itoh  said. 

The  constitution  in  Japan,  established  in 
1947,  is  the  "supreme,  organic  and  basic  law 
in  Japan,"  according  to  Itoh.  In  the  absence 
of  constitutional  revisions  since  its  inception, 
the  courts,  especially  the  Supreme  Court, 
have  played  a  vital  role  in  interpreting  con- 
stitutional and  inferior  laws  in  the  process 
of  settling  legal  disputes. 

"Resulting  judicial  policies  have  greatly 
affected  political  and  socioeconomic  activi- 
ties of  the  society,"  Itoh  said.  "They  have 
contributed  to  political  stability  and  predict- 
ability, which  in  turn  provided  a  basis  for 
economic  growth  and  democracy  for  the  past 
half  century." 

Itoh  said  his  proposed  research  is  among 
the  first  to  analyze  judicial  impact  and  feed- 
back in  depth  and  is  relevant  to  the  college's 
efforts  to  strengthen  global  studies. 

"(Plattsburgh  State)  has,  over  26  years, 
offered  Japanese  government  and  law  as  an 
integral  component  of  global  perspectives," 
he  said.  "The  college  has  also  been  selec- 


tive in  distinguishing  itself  on  its  members' 
scholarly  achievements  and  international 
recognition." 

Itoh's  research  will  take  him  to  Japan  and 
the  libraries  at  the  (Japan)  Supreme  Court 
and  Keio  University,  of  which  he  will  be 
affiliated  with  the  faculty  of  law. 

"Most  of  this  research  involves  interviews 
with  justices,  government  officials,  private 
attorneys  and  constitutional  scholars  inside 
Japan  and  cannot  be  done  anywhere  else," 
he  said.  "One  overriding  reason  for  relative 
ease  ...  to  secure  access  to  Supreme  Court 
justices  and  former  prime  ministers  seems 
to  be  that  they  are  less  suspicious  toward 
serious  researchers  from  overseas;  knowing 
that  that  their  remarks  and  comments  will 
not  be  used  for  political  or  mass  media-in- 
spired publicity." 

Itoh  has  presented  his  research  results 
both  in  the  United  States  and  Japan  on  nu- 
merous occasions  and  has  been  published  in 
Japan.  A  book  authored  by  Itoh  in  1989  on 
the  Japanese  Supreme  Court  is  being  trans- 
lated into  Japanese  for  a  Japanese  audience. 


Community  Service  (Continued  from  Page  1) 


"I  help  teachers  do  bulletin  boards,  grade 
papers,  give  extra  help  to  students  if  they're 
behind  in  their  work,"  she  said.  "It's  perfect 
for  my  major.  It's  like  a  pre-internship.  It's  a 
wonderful  advantage  and  I'm  learning  a  lot 
—  I'm  learning  that  it's  what  I  really  want 
to  do." 

The  1 2  hours  she  works  at  the  school  are 
in  addition  to  the  17  credit  hours  she  takes 
as  a  freshman.  It  leaves  little  time  for  free 
time.  "But  it  keeps  me  focused,"  Accettella 
said.  "I  realize  what  I  want  to  be  is  a  teacher. 
I  see  my  goal  right  in  front  of  me." 

Sarah  Greene,  an  18-year-old  freshman 
majoring  in  speech  and  hearing  disorders,  is 
another  of  the  10  scholarship  recipients  this 
inaugural  year.  Her  project  is  working  with 
special  education  clients  of  Champlain  Val- 
ley Tech. 

"I  really  like  (the  program),"  Greene  said. 
"I  see  a  lot  of  things  I'll  have  to  learn  in  my 
major.  It's  a  lot  of  fun." 

Like  Accettella,  Greene  has  been  involved 
in  numerous  community-service  projects  in 
her  hometown  of  Keeseville.  She  was  presi- 
dent of  the  Key  Club  at  AuSable  Valley  Cen- 
tral School,  a  community-service  organiza- 
tion; she  organized  and  participated  in 
fundraisers  for  groups  like  the  Association 
for  Retarded  Citizens  and  Muscular  Dystro- 
phy Association. 


'The  idea  behind  the  scholarship  is  to  rec- 
ognize students  involved  with  community 
service  and  to  provide  an  avenue  to  continue 
service  here  in  college  while  at  the  same  time 
rewarding  that  involvement,"  said  Hartman. 

Hartman  said  Plattsburgh  State  is  the  first 
of  the  SUNY  schools  to  have  implemented 
such  a  program  with  others  working  to  cre- 


ate similar  programs  on  their  campuses. 

Hartman  submitted  the  proposal  to  cre- 
ate the  scholarship  program  based  on  his 
experience  and  involvement  with  the  Clinton 
County  AmeriCorps  program,  he  said. 

"Both  these  scholarships  and  AmeriCorps 
combine  service  with  education.  To  me,  this 
\%  a  win-win  situation,"  Hartman  said. 


Benefit  Information  Day  Set  For  Oct.  21 

Plattsburgh  State  and  its  unions  will  be  hosting  a  Benefit  Information  Day  on  Tuesday, 
Oct.  21,  from  9  a.m.  to  3  p.m.  in  the  Warren  Ballrooms  of  Angell  College  Center. 

This  event  will  provide  college  employees  the  opportunity  to  receive  information 
pertaining  to  the  benefits  available  to  them,  including  health  insurance,  retirement,  dental 
and  vision. 

According  to  Maria  Visco,  personnel  associate,  employees  have  been  authorized  one 
hour  of  release  time  or  one  hour  of  compensatory  time  for  those  employees  not  working,  to 
attend  this  event,  pending  supervisor  approval. 

Visco  is  also  encouraging  employees  to  stop  by  the  Empire  Plan-MetraHealth  Insurance 
table  to  recommend  the  insurance  company  recruit  more  participating  providers  in  the 
Burlington  area. 

"Many  times  state  employees  are  referred  to  non-participating  physicians  in  Vermont  and 
face  deductibles  for  these  referrals,"  said  Visco.  "Our  employees  can  persuade  Empire  Plan- 
MetraHealth  to  recruit  more  physicians  in  the  Burlington  area  by  stopping  at  their  table 
during  the  day." 

Two  workshops  will  also  be  conducted  in  the  Plattsburgh  Room.  Staff  from  Cornell 
Cooperative  Extension  will  discuss  financial  stability  at  10  a.m  while  members  of  TIAA- 
CREF  will  explain  retirement  options  available  during  a  3  p.m.  workshop. 

Door  prizes  will  be  available  for  participants. 

Anyone  with  questions,  can  contact  Visco  in  the  Personnel  Office  at  Ext.  5062. 
[2] 


Casino  Night,  Circus  Set  for  Oct.  17,  18,  19 

New  Activities  Planned  For  Alumni 
During  Annual  Homecoming  Weekend 


Plattsburgh  State  alumni  from  across  the 
country  will  be  returning  to  their  alma  mater 
Friday  for  the  annual  three-day  Homecom- 
ing Weekend,  Oct.  17-19. 

Rose  Robinson  '95,  director  of  alumni 
affairs,  says  more  than  1 ,000  alumni,  spouses, 
friends  and  guests,  will  be  participating  in 
the  events  on  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday. 

"We  have  some  new  and  exciting  activi- 
ties planned  this  year,  including  a  casino 
night  Friday,  a  multi-cultural  continental 
breakfast  Saturday  morning,  and  the  1997 
Shrine  Circus,  which  will  be  holding  two 
performances  on  Saturday  and  will  partici- 
pate in  the  annual  parade,"  said  Robinson. 

Homecoming  is  for  all  alumni  to  come 
back  and  celebrate  their  Plattsburgh  experi- 
ence, with  special  attention  paid  this  year  to 
classes  ending  in  2  and  7,  Robinson  said. 

"We'll  have  alumni  from  as  far  back  as 
1 932  to  1 992,"  she  said.  "We'll  have  a  golden 
anniversary  club  for  anyone  who  graduated 
50  years  ago  or  prior.  President  and  Mrs. 
Judson  will  open  their  home  for  a  reception 
Friday  evening,  and  the  50,  55,  60,  and  65 
classes  will  be  honored  at  a  luncheon  at  the 
Valcour  Conference  Center  on  Saturday." 

Individual  luncheons  are  also  planned  for 
the  spotlight  classes  from  1952  through  1972. 


An  alumni  family  picnic  will  be  held  Satur- 
day at  Valcour  at  which  everyone  is  wel- 
come but  graduates  from  classes  1977-1992 
will  be  highlighted,  Robinson  said. 

Also  new  this  year  will  be  an  informal 
coffee  hour  with  President  Judson  Saturday 
from  8  to  9  a.m.  at  Java  Jo's  in  the  Angell 
College  Center.  Tours  of  Hawkins  Hall  will 
be  held  Saturday  and  Sunday  and  Dr.  Bryan 
Higgins,  professor  of  geography,  will  con- 
duct a  tour  of  Plattsburgh  Saturday  after- 
noon from  2:30  to  4:30. 

"Alumni  often  comment  on  how  the  city 
and  surrounding  areahas  changed,"  Robinson 
said.  'This  year  we  want  to  show  them  those 
changes  that  will  include  a  look  at  the 
former  Plattsburgh  Air  Force  Base." 

Other  events  planned  throughout  the  week- 
end include:  the  annual  homecoming  pa- 
rade, anniversary  reunion  luncheons,  fire- 
works, a  dinner  dance,  meetings  of  the  Platts- 
burgh Alumni  Association  and  the  Board  of 
Directors,  and  the  Sports  Hall  of  Fame  In- 
duction Ceremony  and  Brunch. 

"All  of  us  at  Plattsburgh  State  are  looking 
forward  to  welcoming  our  alumni  back  to 
campus,"  Robinson  said.  "Seeing  alumni 
who  haven't  seen  each  other  in  years  remi- 
niscing at  homecoming  is  always  exciting." 


SUNY  Alumni  Honor  Roll  (Continued  From  Page  1) 


The  Ohio  State  University  and  the  New  York 
State  Education  Department. 

She  served  as  coordinator  for  New  York' s 
Goals  2000  initiative  and  was  responsible 
for  implementing  Commissioner  Thomas 
Sobol's  New  Compact  for  Learning  as  it 
related  to  research,  evaluation  and  technol- 
ogy for  school-based  programs  and  class- 
room practices. 

Holcomb  has  returned  to  Plattsburgh  State 
on  several  occasions  to  speak  with  students. 
This  past  May,  she  returned  to  her  alma 
mater  to  receive  the  1997  Distinguished 
Alumna  Award  at  spring  commencement. 

Pak  received  a  bachelor's  degree  in  biol- 
ogy from  Plattsburgh  State  in  1974.  He  went 
on  to  obtain  a  master's  degree  in  biochemis- 
try from  the  University  of  Pittsburgh  and  a 
Ph.D.  in  immunochemistry  from  Memphis 
State  University. 

Pak  worked  in  research  and  developed 
seven  patented  high  tech  procedures  in  the 


field  of  diagnostic  imaging  and  therapeutic 
reagents.  His  work  is  so  highly  regarded  that 
he  was  elected  president  of  the  Chinese 
American  Society  of  Nuclear  Medicine. 

In  1993,  Pak  formed  Molecular  Targeting 
Technology,  a  biotechnology  firm  in  Penn- 
sylvania of  which  he  is  president  and  chief 
executive  officer. 

Pak  returned  to  Plattsburgh  State  last 
spring  as  a  participant  in  the  Distinguished 
Visiting  Alumni  Program.  During  his  three 
days  on  campus,  he  spoke  with  various  stu- 
dent groups,  lectured  in  several  classes,  and 
gave  a  public  presentation. 

Don  Garrant,  executive  assistant  to  the 
president  for  college  relations  and  develop- 
ment, said,  "Plattsburgh  State  has  many 
alumni  who  are  leaders  in  their  fields  and 
who  are  supporters  of  our  college.  We  are 
proud  to  honor  these  two  individuals  for 
their  accomplishments  and  their  continued 
advocacy  of  Plattsburgh  State" 

[3] 


Former  Home  Economics  Director 

Mar4aParkDeadat99 


Martha  A. 
Park,  former 
director  of 
the  home; 
economics 
education  de- 
partment at 
Plattsburgh 
State  Univer- 
sity, died  Au- 


Parfc 


gust  23  at  the  age  of  99  in  Rolla,  Ma 
where  she  had  resided  for  the  past  10 
years. 

Miss  Park  was  one  of  five  educa- 
tors who  came  to  Plattsburgh  State  in 
1938  to  develop  the  home  economics 
program  for  the  training  of  junior  and 
senior  high  school  economics  teach- 
ers, which  bl|iil|| •  1 937. 

Miss  Park  supervised  off-campus 
student  teachers  in  home  economics! 
and  taught  classes  in  foods  and  con- 
sumer economics.  For  a  time,  she  was- 
also  in  charge  of  the  college's  food  ser- " 
vice  program. 

In  1959  she  was  named  Erector  of 
the  home  economics  department  after 
the  retirement  of  the  college's  first 
!*6me  economics  chair,  Loyjje  Norton 
who  also  died  last  August  at  the  age  of 
93.  , 

Miss  Park  was  director  of  the  de- 
partment until  her  retirement  Sept.  l> 
1963.  She  was  granted  professor 
emeritus  status  by  the  Board  of  Trust- 
ees in  1966. 

A  graduate  of  the  University  of  Illi- 
nois where  she  received  a  bachelor  of 
arts  degree  in  home  economics,  Miss 
Park  was  awarded  the  master  of  sci- 
ence degree  in  the  same  area  by  Iowa ; 
State  College. 

She  participated  in  many  commu- 
nity and  professional  organizations 
both  as  an  active  member  and  elected 
officer  including  the  Business  and  Pro- 
fessional Women's  Club  of  which  she 
had  served  as  president. 

Miss  Park  retired  to  Boca  Ratsp, 
Fla.,  until  about  ten  years  ago  whens§e 
moved  to  Rolla,  Mo.  to  be  with  her  sis- 
ter. 


Consulate  General  Deputy  Head  to  Attend  Canada  Day  Activities  Oct.  23 


Bernard  Etzinger,  deputy  head  of  the  Po- 
litical/Economic Relations  and  Academic 
Affairs  Division  of  the  Consulate  General 
of  Canada  in  New  York  City,  will  be  at  the 
college  for  Canada  Day,  Thursday,  Oct.  23. 

Etzinger  will  meet  with  students  in  Ca- 
nadian Studies  throughout  the  morning. 

Prior  to  joining  the  Consulate  General's 
office  in  New  York  in  August  1 996,  Etzinger 
worked  for  the  Canadian  government  in  the 
Foreign  Policy  Communication  Division, 
Western  Europe  Relations  Division,  Cana- 
dian Foreign  Service  Institute  and  the  U.S. 
General  Relations  and  Programs. 

Originally  from  Munich,  Germany, 
Etzinger  obtained  degrees  in  political  science 
and  Canadian  history  at  Carleton  University 
in  Ottawa. 

Several  activities  are  also  planned  for 
Canada  Day.  Students  in  Canadian  Studies 
will  be  available  to  hand  out  free  maps,  bro- 
chures and  other  information  on  Canada  in 
the  Angcll  College  Center  lobby  from  1 1 

LIB  101  Proficiency  Exam 
Scheduled  for  Oct.  29, 30 

The  Proficiency  Exam  for  LIB  101,  In- 
troduction to  Library  Research,  will  be 
offered  on  Wednesday,  Oct.  29,  at  12 
p.m.  in ,  Feinberg  Library,  Room  112  and 
at  6  p.m.  in  Yokum  Hall,  Room  205.  The 
;  exam  will  also  be  held  on  Thursday,  Oct. 
;  30,  at  12  p.m.  in  Feinberg  Library,  Room 
112,  and  at  6  p,m.  in  Yokum  Hall,  Room 
208. 

The  optional  exam  is  open  to  any  stu- 
;  dent  who  has  never  taken  the  exam  or 
;  the  course  previously,  and  who  has  never 
|  received  grade  (including  a  W  or  W/ 
I  E)  for  LIB  101.  Each  student  should 
bring  a  photo  I.D.  to  the  exam.  Results 
will  be  posted  in  Feinberg  Library, 

Students  who  do  not  pass  the  exam 
should  register  for  LIB  101  for  spring 
1998,  Students  who  pass  will  receive  PR 
credit  for  LIB  101  and  will  not  have  to 
register  for  the  course.  A  student  may 
take  the  Proficiency  Exam  only  one.  It 
is  offered  once  per  semester,  during  the 
first  week  of  Advisement  and  Registra- 
tion. 

The  dates  when  the  exam  will  be  of- 
fered during  the  spring  semester  will  be 
printed  in  the  Spring  1998  Master  Sched- 
ule. Questions  about  the  exam  should 
be  directed  to  Caria  List,  Feinberg  Li- 
brary; ext.  5307;  splava::listck. 


a.m.  to  2  p.m. 

Political  comedy  clips  from  Canadian 
television  shows  will  be  shown  at  1 1  a.m.  in 
Room  202,  Yokum  Hall.  Marriott  Food  Ser- 
vice will  hold  its  annual  Canada  Day  Lun- 
cheon in  Ballroom  B  of  the  Angell  College 
Center  from  1 1 :30  a.m.  to  2  p.m. 

Donald  Cuccioletta,  adjunct  lecturer  in 
Canadian  and  International  Studies,  will  dis- 
cuss Canada  in  world  relations  and  current 
issues  at  a  2:45  p.m.  talk  in  the  Plattsburgh 
Room. 

Murnane  Re-Elected 


Dr.  William  Culver,  professor  of  political 
science  and  coordinator  of  the  Latin  Ameri- 
can Studies  Program,  will  talk  about  Canada 
and  its  relations  with  South  American  coun- 
tries at  4:15  p.m.  in  the  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Later  that  evening,  Montreal  pianists 
Pamela  Reimer  and  Olga  Gross  will  perform 
a  piano  recital  in  the  Cardinal  Lounge  at  8 
p.m.  The  concert  is  free  and  open  to  the  pub- 
lic. However  reservations  are  recommended 
by  contacting  the  Center  for  Canadian  Stud- 
ies at  564-2180. 

Foundation  President 


Plattsburgh  College  Foundation  President  Patrick  Murnane  (center  right)  chats  with  Foundation  mem- 
bers Celine  Paquette,  Adore'  Kurtz,  William  Brooks,  David  Farr  and  Larry  Jeffords. 

Community  members  elected  to  serve 
three  year-terms  on  the  Board  were:  William 
E.  Brooks,  managing  director  of  Wyeth- 


PatrickT.  Murnane,  president  of  Murnane 
Building  Contractors,  has  been  re-elected 
president  of  the  Plattsburgh  College  Foun- 
dation. Murnane,  who  has  just  finished  his 
first  year  as  president,  was  initially  named  to 
the  Board  of  Directors  in  1990  and  later 
served  as  second  vice  president.  In  addition, 
he  co-chaired  and  later  chaired  several  of  the 
Foundation' s  successful  business  campaigns. 

The  Board  of  Directors  also  re-elected 
Elizabeth  "Betty''  Kelly,  former  president  of 
Holcombe  Abstract  Corp.,  first  vice  presi- 
dent; Roger  Forrence  of  Forrence  Orchards, 
second  vice  president;  Debra  Thomas,  sec- 
retary in  the  Office  of  College  Relations  and 
Development,  secretary;  and  John 
Homburger,  the  College's  vice  president  for 
business  affairs,  treasurer. 

The  board  also  approved  the  appoint- 
ments of  Murnane,  Kelly,  Forrence  and  Rob- 
ert T.  Booth  to  serve  on  the  Foundation's 
Executive  Committee  along  with  President 
Horace  Judson. 


Ayerst  Laboratories  and  Larry  W.  Jeffords, 
president  of  Jeffords  Steel  and  Engineering. 

Dr.  Celine  R.  Paquette  '60,  owner  of 
Paquette's  Insurance  Agency,  was  appointed 
to  a  three-year  term  as  alumni  representa- 
tive by  the  Plattsburgh  Alumni  Association 
Board  of  Directors. 

Two  new  community  members  were 
named.  They  are  Adore'  Kurtz,  president  of 
the  Clinton  County  Area  Development  Cor- 
poration; and  David  Farr,  treasurer  of  the 
Stewart' s  Corporation  and  a  1 976  Plattsburgh 
State  alumnus. 

The  Board,  on  the  recommendation  of 
President  Judson,  approved  the  appointment 
of  Don  Garrant,  executive  assistant  to  the 
president  for  college  relations  and  develop- 
ment, to  serve  during  1997-98  as  executive 
director  of  the  Foundation  at  no  additional 
remuneration. 


[4] 


Macdonough  Hall  Renovations  to  Begin  Soon 


Renovations  to  the  second  floor  east  wing  of 
Macdonough  Hall  which  was  severely  damaged 
in  an  early  morning  fire  Oct.  4th  will  begin  soon. 

Stanley  Supinski,  director  of  facilities,  said 
emegency  repairs  to  lossened  and  cracked  tiles 
in  the  stairways  have  been  made  to  prevent 
injuries  to  students.  Cleaning  on  the  adjoining 
floors  is  nearing  completion,  and  officials  arc 
still  determining  the  scope  of  renovations  to  be 
completed  on  the  second  floor  of  the  residence 
hall. 

Students  living  on  the  second  floor  were 
moved  to  other  residence  halls  on  campus  or 
allowed  to  live  off-campus  for  the  rest  of  the 
semester  until  renovations  are  completed  by 
Murnane  Associates,  the  contractor  hired  by  the 
Office  of  General  Services  to  handle  the  project. 

Meanwhile,  the  student  who  accidentally  set 
f  re  to  his  room  faces  college  disciplinary  charges. 

President  Horace  Judson  said  we  can  be  thank- 


The  second  floor  east  wing  of  Macdonough  Hall 
sustained  heavy  smoke  and  water  damage  from 

ful  everyone  got  out  of  the  building  without  the  fire. 

serious  injury.  "We  can  replace  a  room  and  personal  belongings,  but  we  cannot  replace  a 
human  life." 


Distinguished  Visiting  Professor 

Dr.  Bernard  Murchland  on  Campus  Oct  26 


Dr.  Bernard  Murchland,  chairperson  of 
the  philosophy  department  at  Ohio 
Wesleyan  University,  will  be  on  campus 
Oct.  26  and  27  as  distinguished  visiting 
professor. 

Murchland  will  meet  with  faculty,  staff 
and  students  and  give  a  public  lecture  on 
"Strong  Humanism  and  Rebuilding  Civil 
Society,"  on  Monday,  Oct.  27,  at  7:30  p.m. 
in  Warren  Ballroom  B,  Angell  College 
Center. 

Murchland  is  the  Trumble  G.  Duvall 
Chair  in  philosophy  at  Ohio  Wesleyan 
University  and  is  editor  of  the  Civic  Arts 
Review,  a  journal  relating  liberal  learning 
to  public  life. 

He  has  translated  several  books  and 
edited  and/or  written  several  others  in- 


cluding The  Meaning  of  the  Death  of  God, 
TheNewIconoclasm,  The  Dream  of  Chris- 
tian Socialism,  and  Humanism  and  Capi- 
talism. He  has  also  published  more  than 
100  articles  and  reviews  of  philosophical 
and  social  themes. 

Murchland  is  the  recipient  of  the  1996 
Herbert  Welch  Meritorious  Teaching 
Award  —  Ohio  Wesleyan  University's 
highest  teaching  honor.  He  holds  a 
bachelor's  degree  from  the  University  of 
Moncton,  Canada  and  a  Ph.D.  from  SUNY 
Buffalo.  He  also  holds  graduate  degrees  in 
religion  and  comparative  literature. 

His  visit  is  being  sponsored  by  the  Of- 
fice of  the  Provost,  Phi  Kappa  Phi,  Student 
Association  and  the  Distinguished  Visit- 
ing Professor  Program. 


Lifelong  Learning 
Reviews  Summer 
Course  Offerings 


Worthington 


The  Center  for 
Lifelong  Learning 
is  attempting  to  ex- 
pand  summer 
school  offerings  by 
working  closely 
with  faculty  and 
students. 

Dr.  Janet  Worth- 
ington, director  of 
the  Center  for  Life- 
long Learning,  says 
that  the  1998  summer  session  will  consist  of 
two  five-week  sessions,  with  a  variety  of 
other  options  ranging  up  to  10  weeks. 

"Faculty  members  have  identified  pro- 
jected courses  which  they  would  be  inter- 
ested in  teaching  during  the  summer,"  said 
Worthington.  "these  projected  courses  will 
be  listed  in  the  spring  schedule.  We  are  now 
attempting  to  define  the  types  of  offerings 
students  would  be  most  interested  in  during 
the  summer." 

In  an  effort  to  solicit  information  from 
students,  the  Center  will  be  sending  out 
questionaires  to  students  via  campus  mail 
and  e-mail.  The  surveys  will  be  collected  in 
drop  boxes  in  the  Angell  College  Center. 

"We  need  to  identify  what  courses  stu- 
dents would  be  interested  in  taking  during 
the  summer,  and  we  will  try  our  best  to  meet 
their  needs,"  said  Worthington.  "If  a  student 
suggest  a  course  be  offered  during  the  sum- 
mer, they  will  not  be  required  to  take  these 
courses,  nor  can  we  guarantee  that  all  sug- 
gested courses  will  be  offered" 

The  Center  for  Lifelong  Learning  will 
also  seek  information  from  Plattsburgh  and 
Clinton  County  residents  about  courses  they 
would  be  interested  in  during  June  and  July. 

Individuals  with  suggestions  for  summer 
courses  can  contact  the  Center  for  Lifelong 
Learning  at  564-2050  or  email  birdce 
@  splava.cc.plattsburgh.edu,  or  drop  in  to 
the  Center  at  413  Kehoe  between  8  a.m.  and 
4:30  p.m.,  Monday  through  Friday. 


Wellness  Fair  Set  for  Oct.  29;  Flu  Shots  Will  be  Available 


The  Wellness  Center  and  the  Student  Health  Center  will  be 
hosting  the  annual  Plattsburgh  State  University  Wellness  Fair, 
Wednesday,  Oct.  29,  from  10  a.m.  to  3  p.m.  in  the  Warren  Ballrooms 
of  Angell  College  Center. 

The  Wellness  Fair  will  feature  displays  on  physical,  emotional, 
spiritual,  occupational,  intellectual  and  social  wellness.  The  fair, 
which  is  open  to  faculty,  staff  and  students,  and  community  mem- 
bers, will  include  aerobics  and  massage  demonstrations. 


A  blood  drive  will  also  be  held  in  the  Cardinal  Lounge  in 
conjunction  with  the  event  while  door  prizes,  including  a  free 
membership  to  the  Fitness  Center  will  be  awarded  throughout  the 
day. 

Flu  shots  will  be  available  to  college  students,  faculty,  and  staff 
at  a  cost  of  $3  for  students  and  $5  for  faculty  and  staff  during  the 
Wellness  Fair.  The  shots  will  also  be  available  on  Thursday  and 
Friday,  Oct.  30-31,  in  the  Wellness  Center. 


[5] 


PI  SPOTLIGHT 


Dr.  Paul  Johnston 
Dr.  Edwin  Hamblet 
D.  Elaine  Leavitt 
Michele  Little 
Dr.  Shakuntala  Rao 
Dr.  Thomas  Rumney 


Dr.  Paul  Johnston, 

associate  professor 
of  English,  pre- 
sented a  chapter 
from  his  sabbatical 
project  on  the 
American  sense  of 
nature  at  the  11th 
International  James 
Fenimore  Cooper 
Seminar  at  the  Col- 


shop  on  designing  creative  staff  training 
programs.  Little  discussed  how  to  moti- 
vate learning  disabled  athletes. 


Dr.  Shakuntala 

Rao,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  communi- 
cation, will  have  her 
research,  titled 
"Woman-  As-Sym- 
bol:  Intersections  of 
Identity  Politics, 
Gender,  and  Indian 
Nationalism,"  pub- 
lished soon  in  a  spe- 
cial issue  of  the  journal  International 
Women's  Studies  Forum.  Rao  was  also 
one  of  40  faculty  selected  to  participate  in 


Johnston 


lege  at  Oneonta  in  July.  Johnston' s  paper, " A 
Puritan  in  the  Wilderness:  Natty  Bumpo's 
Language  and  American  Nature  Today," 
examined  the  influence  of  colonial  Ameri- 
can Puritanism  on  Cooper  and  on  the  sense 
of  nature  Americans  have  inherited  from 
Cooper's  Leatherstocking  tales. 


Dr.  Edwin  Ham- 
blet, professor  of 
French,  recently  re- 
viewed Pamela 
Sing's  Le  Villages 
imaginaire  in  the 
spring  issue  of  The 
American  Review  of 
Canadian  Studies. 


Hamblet 


Leavitt 


Little 


Elaine  Leavitt,  director  of  Upward  Bound, 
and  Michele  Little,  director  of  Student  Sup- 
port Services,  recently  presented  programs 
at  the  16th  annual  National  Council  of  Edu- 
cational Opportunity  Program  in  New  Or- 
leans. Leavitt  was  a  co-presenter  in  a  work- 


Rao 


the  Ford  Foundation  Curricula  Project  at 
SUNY  Albany  this  summer. 

Dr.  Thomas  Rum- 
ney, professor  in  the 
Center  for  Earth  and 
Environmental  Sci- 
ence, has  published  a 
review  of  the  book, 
The  Road  to  Love 
Canal;  Managing  In- 
dustrial Waste  Before 
EPA,  by  C.E.  Colten 
and  P.N.  Skinner 
(Austin,  TX:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1 996) 
in  The  Journal  of  Geography,  Volume  96, 
No.  4,  July/August  1997. 


Rumney 


Sculpture  Terrace  Dedication  Oct  17 

Artwork  Installed  at  Hawkins  and  Hudson  Halls 


Bystanders  watched  as  a  portion  of  the  sculpture,  Here  I A  m  by  artist  Harry  Gordon,  was 
lowered  intoplacein  front  of  Hawkins  Hall,  Oct  3.  It  was  one  of  several  new  stone  sculptures 
installed  on  the  front  lawn  of  Hawkins  Hall  and  on  the  side  lawn  of  Hudson  Hall, 

Edward  Brohel,director  of  the  Pittsburgh  State  Art  Museum,  said  the  newestadditions 
are  part  of  the  Art  Museum  Park  Project  and  are  just  three  of  the  more  thaa  175  art  pieces 
put  out  around  campus  since  early  summer, 

Gordon's  sculpture  and  another  one*  Danny  Kainz's  Harmony,  were  selected  after  their 
art  works  were  presented  at  the  summer  1996  Project  and  Proposals  exhibition,  Kainz's 
sculpture  was  judged  best  while  Gordon's  was  runner *up. 

Brohei  says  the  installations  represent  a  growing  response  by  professional  artists  to  the 
Museum's  Sculpture  Park.  A  third  work,  Iroquois  Crossing  by  Rodger  Mack,  was  also 
lowered  into  place  next  to  Hudson  Hall  on  the  same  day. 

In  a  related  note,  on  Friday*  Oct  17,  from  4  to  6  p.m.,  the  Sculpture  Terrace  located 
between  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  and  Yokum  Hall  will  be  dedicated  with  a  reception  for 
the  artists*  The  Sculpture  Terrace  will  present  annual  or  biannual  exhibitions  of  challeng- 
ing contemporary  sculptures  by  international  artists  who  create  visions  of  the  21st  century. 


[6] 


"Macbeth"  to  be  Performed  For  Halloween 


Plattsburgh  State  theater 
students  will  take  advantage 
of  the  Halloween  season  to 
perform  a  haunting  produc- 
tion of  "Macbeth." 

Karen  Lordi,  visiting  assis- 
tant professor  in  theater  and 
English  at  Plattsburgh  State 
this  year,  is  directing  the 
Orson  Wells  three-act  version 
of  Shakespeare's  five-act  play 
Oct.  30-Nov.  2  in  Hartman 
Theatre. 

"We're  setting  it  in  a  con- 
temporary post-apocalyptic 
world  with  anachronistic 
touches  of  gothic  flavor," 
Lordi  said.  "It  is  a  witch  and 
supernatural  story,  so  it's  ap- 
propriate for  Halloween." 

The  cast  of  1 8  will  perform 
for  high-school  students  at  a 
preview  Wednesday,  Oct.  29 
and  then  open  Thursday  night. 
Performances  Thursday,  Fri- 
day and  Saturday  begin  at  8  Macbeth  (center),  played  by  Aaron  Brehm,  is  surrounded  by  the  witches 
p.m.;  Sunday's  performance  ^  tney  practice  a  scene  from  Macbeth.  The  witches  are:  (clockwise 
is  a  2  p  m  matinee  from  lower  left)  April  Wortmann,  Leigh  Reynolds  and  Cara  Furiosi. 

Tickets,  available  at  the  Angell  College  Center  desk,  are  $5  for  faculty,  staff  and  senior 
citizens,  $1  for  Student  Association  members,  and  $8  for  the  general  public.  For  more 
information,  call  564-2180. 


Of  Interest: 

MIGHTY  MIGHTY  BOSSTONES  will  appear  in  concert  Wednesday,  Oct.  29,  at  8  p.m. 
in  the  Plattsburgh  State  Field  House.  Tickets  are  $5  for  SA  members,  $10  for  general 
admissions  and  are  available  at  the  Angell  College  Center  Desk  and  Peacock  Records. 

Pi  Kappa  Phi's  Annual  Roof-A-Thon  to  benefit  PUSH  America,  Friday,  October  24  - 
Sunday,  October  26,  Wal-Mart,  Cornelia  Street. 

Public  Skating  will  be  held  at  the  Plattsburgh  State  Field  House  on  October  19,  25  and  26 
from  1:30-2:45  p.m.  Admission  is  $2  for  the  public  and  $1  for  Plattsburgh  State  Students 
with  ID.  Skate  Rentals  available  at  the  same  rates. 

Recreational  Skating  for  Plattsburgh  State  Faculty  and  Staff  will  be  held  on  October  21, 
23,  28  and  30,  from  12- lp.m.  No  charge.  For  further  information  call  564-4062. 

Men's  and  Women's  Indoor  Intramural  Soccer  entry  forms  due  October  20-23.  Entries 
accepted  in  322  Memorial  between  3-4:30  p.m. 

Resident  Assistant  position  applications  for  the  1998-99  academic  year  will  be  available 
at  the  Angell  Center  Desk  beginning  Friday,  Oct.  17,  1997.  All  full-time  students  who  will 
be  enrolled  in  an  on-campus  program  for  the  entire  1998-99  academic  year  and  who  have 
achieved  a  2.75  cumulative  grade  point  average,  effective  January  1998,  are  eligible  to 
apply.  The  application  deadline  is  Friday,  December  5,  1997,  by  4:30  p.m.  Applications 
must  be  filed  at  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students. 


[7] 


Events  Planned  For 
National  Alcohol 
Awareness  Week 

Plattsburgh  State  students  will  cel- 
ebrate National  Collegiate  Alcohol 
Awareness  Week  Oct.  20-25  with  sev- 
eral events,  both  social  and  educational, 
planned. 

The  week  has  grown  to  become  the 
largest  event  of  its  type  because  stu- 
dents take  the  opportunity  to  design  and 
implement  the  observance  to  promote 
personal  responsibility  and  positive  de- 
cision making  regarding  alcohol  and 
other  substance  use. 

"Not  all  college  students  are  abusing 
alcohol,  and  others  are  finally  begin- 
ning to  realize  that,"  said  Katrina  Day, 
graduate  assistant  at  Plattsburgh  State' s 
Wellness  Center. 

Participation  by  more  clubs  and  or- 
ganizations in  hosting  events  through- 
out the  week  is  a  sign  of  progress  on  the 
local  campus.  Additionally,  Banks  Hall 
has  been  designated  as  wellness  and 
substance-free  housing  for  students  who 
not  want  alcohol  to  be  a  part  of  their 
living  environment. 

During  alcohol  awareness  week 
Plattsburgh  State  students  will  have  the 
opprotunity  to  participate  in  several 
events,  including: 

♦  Pieces  of  the  Puzzle:  the  Issues  of  a 
Generation.  A  fun  comedy/drama/mu- 
sical act  highlighting  issues  surround- 
ing alcohol  use  on  Oct.  20, 8  p.m.,  Flynt 
Commons,  Angell  College  Center. 

♦  Monday  Night  Football  at  the  Fit- 
ness Center. 

♦  Fatal  Vision  Goggles.  Public  Safety 
will  have  goggles  that  allow  one  to 
experience  the  impaired  vision  of  an 
intoxicated  person,  Oct.  22,  1 1  a.m.  -  1 
p.m.  Angell  College  Center  lobby. 

♦  Milk  and  Cookies  Party!  Sponsored 
by  Pi  Kappa  Phi,  Oct.  23, 7  -  9  p.m.,  55- 
57  Broad  Street. 

♦  The  "Quake"  Saturday  Night  Dance 
Party,  Oct.  25,  7:30  —  1 1:30  p.m.,  War- 
ren Ballrooms,  Angell  College  Center. 

The  National  Collegiate  Alcohol 
Awareness  Week  originated  in  1983  on 
only  25  campuses.  Plattsburgh  State  has 
been  recognized  the  past  two  years  as 
one  of  10  colleges  in  the  country  with 
outstanding  alcohol  awareness  pro- 
grams. 


Cardinal  Sports 


Intramura 


Women's  Volleyball  Team  to  Host  SUNYAC  East  Tournament 


Burdick 


The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  vol- 
leyball team  will  hosts  the  second  round 
of  the  SUNYAC  East  Tournament  in  the 
newly  renovated  Memorial  Hall  Gym- 
nasium this  weekend.  This  will  be  the 
first  SUNYAC  East  Tournament  at 
Plattsburgh  since  1994  and  will  boast 
three  teams  ranked  among  the  top  10  in 
the  New  York  State  region  and  one  na- 
tionally ranked  team.  There  will  be  a 
total  of  15  matches  starting  at  4  p.m.  on 
Friday  and  continuing  on  Saturday  be- 
ginning at  10  a.m. 

The  Cardinal  women's  volleyball  team  defeated  Utica  Rome  (3- 
1)  to  finish  third  in  the  1997  Oneonta  Volleyball  Classic  this  past 
Saturday.  Plattsburgh  won  three  games  in  the  tournament;  Hartwick 
(3-2),  Keuka  (3- 1 ),  and  Utica/Rome,  against  two  losses;  Geneseo  ( 1  - 
3),  and  Oneonta  (0-3).  Earlier  in  the  week,  the  Cardinals  lost  to 
Middlebury  0-3. 

Freshman  Corinne  Burdick  led  the  Cardinals  in  the  win  (8-15,15- 
6,  15-4,  6-15,  15-6)  over  Hartwick  with  20  assists  and  the  recipient 
of  many  of  those  assists  was  Tracey  Groblewski,  who  finished  with 
14  kills  and  16  digs.  Burdick  was  named  Plattsburgh  State  Female 
Athlete  of  the  Week  for  the  week  ending  Oct.  12. 

Burdick  also  led  the  Cardinals  over  Keuka  (10- 15, 15-9, 15-5, 15- 
8)  with  20  assists.  Jackie  Rotelli  added  16  kills  to  the  Cardinals 
attack  in  that  game.  In  the  third  place  match,  Rotelli  did  most  of  the 


SUNYAC  East  Volleyball  Tournament 
October  1748,1997 
Memorial  Hall 


Pl^ttStHirgh  vs  J 

Ptaflmirgb  vs.  Potsdam 
Cortland  vs.  Oneonta 


Friday,  Wp 

4  p.m.     Potsdam  vs.  Utica 
6  p.m.     New  Paltz  vs.  Cortland 
8  p.m.     New  Paltz  vs.  UtieatfS£ro$ 

Saturday,  10/18 

  torn  1 

1 0  a.m.  Oneonta  vs.  Utica/Rome  PoESam  vs.  Cortland 

12  p.m.  Potsdam  vs.  New  Paitz  Plattsburgh  vs.  Cortiand 

2  p.m.  Plattsburgh  vs.  Utica/Rome  New  Paltz  vs.  Oneoma 

4  p.m.  Potsdam  vs.  Oneonta  Utica  vs.  Cortland 

6  p.m.  Plattsburgh  vs.  New  Paltz 

*  All  matches  will  take  place  in  Plattsburgh 's  nmfy  renovate^ 
Memorial  Hall.  Admission  is  free  and  open  to  the  public. 


damage  against  Utica/Rome  with  17  assists  and  14  kills.  Penny 
Spofford  added  nine  kills  of  her  own  and  seven  digs  as  Plattsburgh 
claimed  third  with  the  win  (15-6,  15-13,  10-15,  15-8).  Rotelli  and 
Burdick  received  All-Tournament  Team  honors  for  their  efforts. 


Cardinal  Sports  Briefs  ^^^^h 

Soccer  Team's  Six-Game  Win 
Streak  Snapped  by  Fredonia  State 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men' s  soccer  team  dropped  to  fourth  in  the 
Northeast  Region  this  week  after  going  1-1  in  two  road  games  this 
past  weekend.  The  men  lost  0-2  to  conference  leader  Fredonia 
Saturday  before  blanking  Buffalo  State  1-0  on  Sunday.  The  men's 
soccer  team  will  be  home  for  Homecoming  Weekend  hosting 
Brockport  Friday  at  3:30  p.m.  and  Geneseo  Saturday  at  1  p.m. 

Men  Ranked  Third,  Women  Hold  Fourth  in  State 

Men's,  Women's  Cross  Country 
Teams  Prepare  For  SUNYACS 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men's  and  women's  cross  country 
teams  were  busy  this  past  weekend  preparing  for  the  1997 
SUNYAC  Championships.  The  men  finished  their  regualar 
season  third  in  the  state  while  the  women's  team  finished 
fourth.  The  two  teams  will  travel  to  the  campus  of  Buffalo 
State  this  Saturday,  for  the  championships. 


Cardinal  Tennis  Team  Sixth  of  11 
At  SUNYAC  Championships 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  tennis  team  closed  out  the  1997 
season  at  the  SUNYAC  Championships  at  Limestone  Country  Club 
in  Manlius,  with  a  sixth  place  finish.  Margrielle  Wilburn,  Erica 
Butler,  and  Melissa  Zwick  all  reached  the  semifinals  in  singles. 
Wilburn  and  Butler  also  reached  the  semifinals  in  #2  doubles. 

Women's  Soccer  Team  Rolls 
Over  Fredonia,  Buffalo  State 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  soccer  team  opened  up  the 
scoring  in  home  SUNYAC  contests  last  weekend  against  Fredonia 
and  Buffalo  State,  winning  both  games  7-0. 

Jill  Hubright  led  the  Cardinals  with  two  goals  and  two  assists 
during  the  two  games  and  Jessica  Allen  tallied  three  goals  on  four 
shots  in  the  win  over  Buffalo  State. 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  soccer  team  continue  in  SUNYAC 
this  weekend  as  they  travel  to  Brockport  Friday  for  a  4  p.m.  start  and 
Geneseo  Saturday  for  a  2  p.m.  game. 


[8] 


 focus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 

Friday,  October  17  -  Wednesday,  October  29 
Unless  otherwise  noted,  all  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public. 
Events  in  italics  are  part  of  Homecoming  Weekend.  For  more  information  on  Homecoming,  contact  the  Alumni  Office  at  2090. 


Friday,  October  17 

8  a.m.-3  p.m.  -  Genetic  Update  Conference  sponsored  by  Admissions  and  the 
Biology  Department.  Registration  is  free  for  Plattsburgh  Students  and  $  10  for 
H.S.  Students,  payable  the  day  of  the  Conference.  Sibley  Hall  Cafetorium. 

3  p.m.  -  the  Philosophy  Colloquium  presents  "Science,  Consciousness  and  Dr. 
Marcel  Vogel."  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

3  -  4:30  p.m.  -  EO?  Alumni  Reception.  EOF  Office,  Algonquin  Dining  Hall. 
3:30  p.m.  -  Men's  Soccer  vs.  SUN  Y  Brockport.  Field  House. 

4  p.m.  -  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
4-5:30  p.m.  -  UUP  Reception  for  NYSUT  members  Angell  College  Center, 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

4:30-6  p.m.  -  AKEB  A  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7:30  p.m.  -  Homecoming  Weekend  Prism  Concert.  Tickets:  $1  SA  Members 
and  Alumni,  $3  general  admission,  available  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell 
Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

8:30  p.m.  -  Homecoming  Weekend  Fireworks  Display,  sponsored  by  the 
Student  Association.  Memorial  Hall  Field. 

9  p.m.  -  Homecoming  Committer  presents  the  crowning  of  the  Man  and 
Woman  of  the  Year  followed  by  a  Bonfire  and  Battle  of  the  Bands.  Sponsored 
by  the  Student  Association.  Memorial  Hall  Field. 

9:30  p.m.  —  Open  Mic  Program  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie,  Plattsburgh  State 
Student.  Angell  Center  Java  Jo's. 

Saturday,  October  18 

8-9  a.m.  -  Conversation  with  President  Judson.  Angell  Center,  Java  Jo's. 
9:30  a.m.  -  ODK  Alumni  Breakfast,  open  to  members  only.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

10  a.m.  -  Annual  Homecoming  Parade,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association 
and  the  Alumni  Association.  Parade  begins  at  the  Field  House  Parking  Lot  and 
concludes  behind  Memorial  Hall. 

1  p.m.  -  Men's  Soccer  vs.  SUNY  Geneseo.  Field  House. 

1  and  6  p.m.  -  Shrine  Circus.  $5  per  person.  Field  House 

7:30p.m.  -  Homecoming  Dinner  Dance  sponsored  by  the  Alumni  Association. 

Reservations  required.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

Sunday,  October  19 

10  a.m.  -  Sports  Hall  of  Fame  Induction  Ceremony  and  Brunch,  sponsored  by 
the  Alumni  Association.  Reservations  required.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ball- 
rooms. 

1  p.m.  -  National  Collegiate  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  presents  Tie  One  on  for 
Safety  at  the  Tie  Dye  Party,  sponsored  by  M  ADD,  Clinton  County  STOP  DWI 
and  Campus  Life.  Angell  Center  Courtyard. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents  .Chasing 
Amy  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets  $  1  S  A  Members  or  Movie 
Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

Monday,  October  20 

1 1  am- 1  p.m.  -  National  Collegiate  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  presents  Mocktail 
Sampling,  hosted  by  the  Peer  Educators.  Angell  Center  Lobby. 

7 : 1 5  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  7. 

7:30  p.m.  -  Plattsburgh  Downtown  Business  Improvement  Survey  Assess- 
ment. Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  -  National  Collegiate  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  presents  Jeff  Desjarlais 
speaking  on  "Pieces  of  the  Puzzle:  The  Issues  of  a  Generation."  Sponsored  by 
CAS,  SA,  Campus  Life  and  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Warren 
Ballrooms. 

8  p.m.  -  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 


8  p.m.  -  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  -  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  -  National  Collegiate  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  presents  Monday  Night 
Football  at  the  Fitness  Center,  hosted  by  Pi  Kappa  Phi  Fraternity  and  sponsored 
by  Judicial  Affairs.  Memorial  Hail  Fitness  Center. 

Tuesday,  October  21 

9  a.m.-3  p.m.  -  Benefit  Information  Day  for  all  Plattsburgh  State  Employees, 
sponsored  by  the  Personnel  Office.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  -  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus 
employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

12  p.m.  -  PSU  Chapter  of  United  University  Professors  (UUP)  Executive 
Board  Meeting.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

12  p.m.  -  Alternative  Spring  Break  informational  meeting,  sponsored  by  the 
Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
12  p.m.  -  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  6. 

12:15  p.m.  -  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Dr.  Paul  Morocco, 
Counseling  Center,  speaking  on  "College  Students  and  Alcohol,"  sponsored 
by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 
3:30  p.m.  -  Men's  Soccer  vs.  Oberlin.  Field  House. 

5-6:30  p.m.  -  Southwestern  Festival  Buffet  sponsored  by  Quantity  Foods. 
Tickets:  $10  students  and  Sr.  citizens,  $12  faculty/staff  and  public.  For 
reservations  call  564-2216.  Sibley  Cafe,  Sibley  Hall,  Room  409. 
7  p.m.  -  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Am- 
nesty Room. 

7  p.m.  -  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  -  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room 
2. 

8  p.m.  -  "The  Jewel  Box,"  a  new  Opera  featuring  the  music  of  Mozart  and 
performed  by  the  American  Opera  Musical  Theatre  Company  of  New  York 
City.  Sponsored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council  and  Funded  by  the  Student 
Association.  Tickets:  $7  S A,  $10 faculty,  staff,  Seniors,  children  under  1 2,  $  13 
general  admission,  on  sale  at  the  Hartman  Box  Office,  564-2283.  Hartman 
Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

8: 15  p.m.  -  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Mtg.  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  -  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  October  22 

10  a.m. -2  p.m.  -  US  Army  information  table.  Angell  Center  Lobby. 

1 1  a.m.- 1  p.m.  -  National  Collegiate  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  presents  Public 
Safety  Alcohol  Awareness  Table  featuring  the  Fatal  Vision  Goggles.  Angell 
Center  Lobby. 

3  p.m.  -  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room  232. 

3:30  p.m.  -  Women's  Soccer  vs.  SUNY  Potsdam.  Field  House. 

3:30  p.m.  -  Guest  speaker  sponsored  by  SNAPS.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh 

Room. 

5  p.m.  -  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
6:30  p.m.  -  SBE  Career  Launcher's  fourth  Seminar:  "Resumes  and  Cover 
Letters,"  presented  by  Dr.  James  Csipak.  Sponsored  by  the  School  of  Business 
and  Economics.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  -  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  panel  discussion  sponsored  by  the  Social 
Work  Association.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

7  p.m.  -  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

10  p.m.  -  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Thursday,  October  23 

8  a.m.  -  One  Day  Conference:  "A  Coordinated  Community  Response  to 


Domestic  Violence,  "  sponsored  by  Public  Safety  and  the  Clinton  County 
Domestic  Violence  Task  Force.  For  registration  information  call  Stacey  Bruce 
at  Clinton  County  Probation  Department,  565-4640.  Angell  Center  Flynt 
Commons  and  Warren  Ballroom  A. 

12: 10- 1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Christine  Hurd,  RN, 
speaking  on  "Women  and  Recovery  from  Alcoholism,"  sponsored  by  the 
Women's  Studies  Program  with  assistance  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Cardinal 
Lounge. 

12:15  p.m.  -  Information  Session  for  students  interested  in  the  Resident 
Assistant  position  for  the  1998-99  academic  year,  sponsored  by  the  Dean  of 
Student's  Office.  Angell  Center  Pittsburgh  Room. 

2:45  p.m.  -  Global  Issues  Update  presents  Don  Cuccioletta,  Visiting  Adjunct 
Professor  of  Canadian  Studies,  leading  a  discussion  on  "Canada:  The  New 
Canadian  Parliament;  Canada-US  Controversies;  Canada's  Native  Peoples." 
Sponsored  by  the  Center  for  International  Programs  and  Political  Science. 
Angell  Center  Pittsburgh  Room. 

4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Steve  Matthews, 
Judicial  Affairs,  speaking  on  "You're  All  Wet:  Scuba  and  You."  Sponsored 
by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

5  p.m.  -  Club  Kreol  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

7-  9  p.m.  -  National  Collegiate  Alcohol  Awareness  Week  presents  a  Milk  and 
Cookies  Party  sponsored  and  hosted  by  Pi  Kappa  Phi  Fraternity.  55-57  Broad 
Street. 

8  p.m.  -  Canada  Day  Piano  Recital  featuring  Pamela  Reimer  and  Olga  Gross, 
sponsored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts 
Building. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting.,  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  -  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

Friday,  October  24 

12  p.m.  -  "Take  Back  The  Night,"  events  include  speakers,  music  and  a  march. 

Sponsored  by  the  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns.  Watch  for  posters  with  exact 

times  and  locations.  Angell  College  Center. 

4  p.m.  -  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

4  p.m.  -  ODK  meeting  of  the  membership,  open  to  members  only.  Angell 

Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

4:30-6  p.m.  -  AKEBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

6  p.m.  -  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

9  p.m.  -  Open  Mic  Night,  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie.  Angell  Center  Java  Jo's. 
Saturday,  October  25 

9  a.m.-5:30  p.m.  —  Bus  to  Montreal,  sponsored  by  Campus  Life.  Tickets:  $  10 
round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Bus  departs  from  the  Angell 
Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

12  p.m.  -  Ubaka  Hill  Drumming  Workshop,  sponsored  by  CWC.  Angell 
Center  Flynt  Commons. 

1  p.m.  -  Women's  Soccer  vs.  Skidmore.  Field  House. 

7:30  p.m.  -  WQKE  "The  Quake"  Dance  Party,  sponsored  by  the  Campus  Radio 

Station.  Angell  Center  Flynt  Commons. 

8-  1 1  p.m.  -  Banks  Hall  presents  Game  Night  in  Celebration  of  Alcohol 
Awareness  Week.  Angell  Center,  Java  Jo's. 

Sunday,  October  26 

9  a.m. -5  p.m.  -  3-on-3  Basketball  Tournament  for  DARE,  sponsored  by  the 
Plattsburgh  State  Men's  Basketball  Team.  Field  House. 
6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9: 1 5  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents  .Batman  and 
Robin  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets  $1  SA  Members  or 
Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell  Center  Warren 
Ballrooms. 


Honors  Program.  Angell  Center  cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  -  Meeting  of  the  Winter  Sports  Athletes,  open  to  members  only  and 
sponsored  by  PEARS.  Yokum  CL  200. 

7:15  p.m. — American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  7. 

7:30  p.m.  -  Public  lecture  by  Bernard  Murchland  "Civic  Responsibility, 
Democratic  Practices  and  Higher  Education, "  sponsored  by  Phi  Kappa  Phi  and 
the  Honors  Program.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom  B. 

8  p.m.  -  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Ballroom  A. 

8  p.m.  -  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  -  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Tuesday,  October  28 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  -  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus 
employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

1 1 :45  a.m.  -  Phi  Kappa  Phi  Honor  Society  sponsors  a  lunch  for  Distinguished 
Visiting  Lecturer  Bernard  Murchland,  open  to  members  only.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

12  p.m.  -  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  6. 

12: 15  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Arlene  Sabo,  Public 
Safety,  speaking  on  "Rape  Aggression  Defense  Training."  Sponsored  by  the 
Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

4:15  p.m.-  Faculty  Senate  meeting,  open  to  campus.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh 
Room. 

7  p.m.  -  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Am- 
nesty Room. 

7  p.m.  -  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  -  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room 
2. 

8:15  p.m.-  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  -  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  October  29 

10  .a.m. -3  p.m.  -  Annual  Wellness  Fair,  sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

1 1  a.m.-3  p.m.  -  Wellness  Fair  Blood  Drive,  sponsored  by  CVPH.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

12  p.m.  -  LIB  101  Proficiency  Exam,  Feinberg  Library,  Room  1 1 2.  Bring 
photo  I.D.  to  exam. 

3  p.m.  -  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room  232. 

5  p.m.  -  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
6:30  p.m.  -  SBE  Career  Launcher's  final  Seminar:  'Interviewing,"  presented 
by  Dr.  James  Csipak,  Mr.  Richard  Lagiewski  and  Mr.  Mark  Kaiser.  Sponsored 
by  the  School  of  Business  and  Economics.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

6  p.m.  -  LiblOl  Proficiency  Exam,  Yokum  Hall,  Room  205.  Bring  photo 
I.D.  to  exam. 

7  p.m.  -  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

8  p.m.  -  College  Theatre  Mainstage  Production  of  "Macbeth,"  featuring  an  all- 
college  cast.  Tickets:  $1  SA,  $5  faculty /staff/Seniors,  $8  public,  on  sale  at  the 
Angell  Center  Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

8  p.m.  -  Brass  Ensemble/Jazz  Ensemble  performance  sponsored  by  the 

Campus  Arts  Council.  Newman  Center,  90  Broad  Street. 

10  p.m.  -  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 


You  can  find  the  Today  @  Plattsburgh  Calendar  of  Events 
on  the  Internet  at  www.plattsburgh.edu. 


Monday,  October  27 

3-4  p.m.  -  Visiting  Distinguished  Lecturer,  Bernard  Murchland,  meets  with 
students  about  civic  responsibilities,  sponsored  by  Phi  Kappa  Phi  and  the 


Four  Runners  Named  to  All-SUNYAC  Athletic  Conference  Team 

Long  Takes  SUNYAC  Cross  Country  Conference  Championship 


Scott  Slade 
Named 
Coach  of 
the  Year 

{See  story 
on  page  8) 


Long 


Special  Collections 
Feinberg  Lib.,  PSUC 
Does  Not  Circulate 


Saying  he  thought  he  had  "an  outside 
chance"  of  winning  the  SUNYAC  men's 
cross  country  championship,  senior  distance 
runner  Walter  Long  of  Smithtown  covered 
the  course  in  a  time  of  26:08  to  win  the  men's 
individual  race  and  become  the  fourth  Car- 
dinal runner  to  win  the  individual  SUNYAC 
Championship,  Oct.  18  in  Buffalo. 

"I  knew  I  had  an  outside  chance  of  win- 


ning the  championship,  but  I  really  would 
have  to  run  a  great  race  to  win,"  said  Long. 
"I  worked  with  my  team  mates  and  suc- 
ceeded." 

Those  teammates  are  Corey  Davidson  of 
Cadyville  who  placed  third,  Ken  Drake  of 
Plattsburgh  in  sixth,  and  Jeremy  Drowne  of 
Plattsburgh  in  seventh. 

(See  "Long  Wins  SUNYACs"  on  Page  2) 


ocus 


on  /Plattsburgh 

STATE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NEW  YORK  £j 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  October  30,  1 997 


Foundation  Receives  $302,000  Bequest  From  Alice  Moyer 


The  Plattsburgh  College  Foundation  has 
received  a  $302,000  bequest  from  the  estate 
of  the  late  Alice  S.  Moyer,  the  wife  of  a 
former  faculty  member,  who  died  Dec.  30, 
1995  at  the  age  of  93. 

The  gift  is  one  of  the  largest  bequests  ever 
received  by  the  Foundation  and  is  the  third 
largest  received  from  an  individual. 

Undergraduate  students  with  financial 
need  will  benefit  from  the  Dr.  Haverly  O. 
and  Alice  S.  Moyer  Endowment  Fund,  also 
named  in  honor  of  Mrs.  Moyer' s  late  hus- 
band. 

President  Horace  A.  Judson  praised  the 
late  Mrs.  Moyer.  "We  are  deeply  grateful  to 
have  enjoyed  Mrs.  Moyer' s  confidence  and 
support  over  the  years,  and  we  are  honored 
by  her  bequest.  Most  of  all,  we  are  thankful 
to  be  able  to  offer  new  opportunities  for 
Plattsburgh  State  undergraduates  for  years 
to  come. 

"Traditionally,  bequests  to  the  Plattsburgh 
College  Foundation  have  been  the  main 
source  of  endowment  support,"  added 
Judson.  "Just  as  the  bequests  of  past  alumni 
and  friends  have  helped  to  create  the 
Plattsburgh  State  of  today,  the  continuation 
of  this  tradition  of  remembrance  will  help  to 
ensure  that  there  will  be  a  financially  strong 
and  academically  excellent  Plattsburgh  State 
for  tomorrow. " 

Mrs.  Moyer,  a  resident  of  Cumberland 


Head,  taught  at  the  College' s  former  cam- 
pus school  for  several  years,  then  at  C hazy 
Central  Rural  School  before  joining  the 
faculty  of  the  Plattsburgh  City  School 
District  where  she  taught  at  Broad  Street 
School  for  21  years,  retiring  in  June  1968. 

Dr.  Haverly  O.  Moyer  served  on  the 
faculty  of  Plattsburgh  State  for  32  years 
as  a  professor  of  education  and  retired  in 
1969,  when  he  was  granted  professor 
emeritus  status.  He  died  Oct.  3,  1972. 

"The  Foundation  certainly  appreciates 
the  fact  that  Mrs.  Moyer  thought  so  highly 
of  the  College  to  make  such  a  significant 
gift,"  said  Don  Garrant,  executive  direc- 
tor of  the  Foundation.  "She  and  her  hus- 
band were  part  of  the  college  community 
for  many  years.  He  was  one  of  our  out- 
standing professors  of  education,  and  she 
was  one  of  the  top  educators  in  the 
Plattsburgh  City  School  District.  It  was 
very  thoughtful  of  them  to  set  up  an  endow- 
ment fund  for  needy  students.  We  have  a 
significant  number  of  students  in  need  of 
financial  assistance." 

Mrs.  Moyer  was  active  in  Girl  Scouting, 
bird  watching,  travel  and  gardening  and  was 
involved  in  activities  of  the  College.  A  sup- 
porter of  the  Kent  Delord  House  Museum, 
Hospice  and  the  Audubon  Society,  she  was 
a  member  of  the  First  Baptist  Church. 

The  largest  bequest  received  to  date  by  the 


Alice  Moyer  (File  photo) 
Foundation  was  a  gift  of  $676,042  from  the 
estate  of  the  late  Dr.  Edward  E.  Redcay, 
former  academic  dean  of  the  College  and 
director  of  the  Honors  Program,  who  spent 
more  than  50  years  of  his  life  at  the  institu- 
tion. 

George  Winkel  and  his  wife,  Nina,  who 
donated  most  of  her  sculptures  to  the  Col- 
lege, and  for  whom  the  Winkel  Sculpture 
Court  was  built  and  named,  provided  a 
planned  gift  of  $623,999  to  the  College. 


One  of  Two  Geochemists  in  Ocean  Crust  Exploration 

Adams  Analyzing  Atlantic  Ocean  Bottom  Samples 


Dr.  Donald  Adams, 
a  professor  in  the  Cen- 
ter for  Earth  and  Envi- 
ronmental Science,  re- 
cently spent  two 
months  aboard  a  drill 
ship  off  the  coast  of 
Africa. 

Adams  was  one  of 
two  organic  geochem- 
ists asked  by  the  Ocean  Drilling  Program  to 
participate  in  August  and  September  in  an 
on-going  exploration  of  the  ocean  crust  and 
is  now  working  with  24  other  scientists  from 
nine  different  countries  analyzing  data  col- 
lected from  the  bottom  of  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
off  the  coast  of  southwest  Africa.  His  work 
will  take  him  away  from  campus  throughout 


Adams 


the  rest  of  the  semester. 

Adams,  whose  project  is  funded  by  a 
$38,898  grant  from  the  Joint  Oceanographic 
Institutions  and  the  National  Science  Foun- 
dation, is  an  expert  on  sediment  gases.  His 
time  on  board  the  drill  ship  JOIDES  Resolu- 
tion was  spent  measuring  sediment  gases, 
which  provide  signatures  of  past  oceano- 
graphic processes  and  climates.  Adams  also 
served  as  one  of  the  safety  officers  who  made 
decisions  on  whether  to  abandon  drill  sites  if 
they  posed  a  danger  from  fire  or  explosion 
from  gases  or  if  they  were  drilling  into  petro- 
leum deposits. 

JOIDES  (pronounced  JOY-DEEZ)  stands 
for  the  Joint  Oceanographic  Institutions  for 
Deep  Earth  Sampling.  The  ship  is  a  47 1  -foot 
converted  oil  drilling  rig  whose  maiden  voy- 


Students  Use  Co-Curricular  Transcripts  to 
Enhance  Resumes,  Academic  Transcripts 


Plattsburgh  State  University  students  who 
are  active  in  civic  and  campus  programs  now 
have  something  to  show  for  their  efforts. 

The  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students  has 
developed  the  Co-Curricular  Transcript, 
which  is  similar  to  the  students'  academic 
transcript  but  lists  activities  and  accomplish- 
ments relative  to  their  college  experience. 

"I  gathered  information  on  co-curricular 
transcripts  from  other  colleges  and  looked  at 
what  would  work  best  here,"  said  Bryan 
Hartman,  director  of  service  learning  and 
leadership.  "Our  program  mimics  much  of 
what  they're  doing  at  University  of  Buffalo. 
Theirs  seemed  to  best  fit  our  needs.1' 

Hartman  said  the  transcripts,  new  this 
fall,  will  enhance  a  student's  resume  and 
academic  transcript  and  are  presented  as 
official  documents  of  the  college. 

"The  project  is  in  its  infancy  stages,  hut 
we've  seen  some  interest  already  and  it's 
exciting,"  he  said. 

Students  who  want  to  start  a  transcript 
need  to  fill  out  a  co-curricular  transcript 
activity  report  form  for  each  activity  they 
want  included.  Types  of  activities  include 
leadership,  paraprofessional  work,  commu- 
nity involvement,  campus  organizational  and 
professional  or  educational  development. 
Honors,  awards  or  special  recognition  are 
also  noted. 

Transcript  report  forms  must  be  verified 
by  someone  involved  in  the  program  or  ac- 


tivity other  than  the  student  applicant.  For 
instance,  activity  in  the  Student  Association 
could  be  verified  by  the  SA  president.  The 
finished  transcript  will  be  printed  on  bond 
paper  with  the  college's  raised  seal  and  be 
accompanied  by  a  letter  from  Dean  of  Stu- 
dents William  Laundry. 

"Students  who  consider  a  co-curricular 
transcript  have  to  think  about  what  they're 
doing,  what  they're  getting  out  of  it  and 
hopefully  see  how  their  activity  directs  them 
to  other  experiences,"  Hartman  said. 

The  transcripts  can  be  helpful  to  students 
in  the  job  market  or  those  applying  for  gradu- 
ate work.  Working  copies  or  those  to  be 
placed  on  file  with  the  Career  Life  Planning 
office  will  be  available  to  students  for  $1; 
official  copies  to  be  mailed  to  employers  or 
graduate  schools  are  available  for  $3.  Those 
funds  will  be  turned  back  over  to  educational 
programs  such  as  Alternative  Spring  Break 
and  Omicron  Delta  Kappa,  the  national  honor 
society,  which  is  a  co-sponsor  of  the  tran- 
script program. 

Activities  must  be  related  to  students' 
college  experience.  It's  not  the  place  to  list 
summer  employment  unless  that  employ- 
ment was  an  internship  or  co-op  job,  Hartman 
said. 

For  more  information  on  the  Co-Curricu- 
lar Transcript  program,  contact  Hartman  at 
564-3824. 


age  was  12  years  ago.  Since  then,  the  ship 
has  traversed  the  world's  oceans  collecting 
sediment  and  rock  samples,  recording  geo- 
physical and  geochemical  information  and 
establishing  long-term  observatories. 

Information  gleamed  from  JOIDES  Reso- 
lution explorations  will  be  studied  over  the 
years,  Adams  said.  Scientists  on  Adams' 
trek  hail  from  the  United  States,  Germany, 
Japan,  Sweden,  France,  Netherlands,  Tai- 
wan, United  Kingdom  and  Canada. 

"In  the  past  25  years  the  Ocean  Drilling 
Program  has  collected  more  than  88  miles  of 
sediment  cores  that  are  archived  for  future 
generations  of  geoscientists,"  Adams  said. 
"As  theories  change,  these  cores  can  be  re- 
examined to  test  new  ideas  about  earth  his- 
tory and  the  evaluation  of  our  planet." 


Long  Wins  SUNYACs 

(Continued from  Page  1) 

"It  was  the  greatest  feeling  after  crossing 
the  finish  line  to  look  back  and  see  my  other 
team  mates  coming  up  close  behind  me," 
said  Long. 

Long,  Davidson,  Drake  and  Drowne 
earned  All-SUNYAC  honors  to  bring  the 
total  number  of  All-SUNYAC  runners  at 
Plattsburgh  to  28.  This  marks  only  the  sec- 
ond time  in  conference  history  one  team  has 
had  four  runners  win  All-SUNYAC  honors. 
In  addition,  Long  and  Davidson  gained 
SUNYAC  Hall  of  Fame  recognition  for  plac- 
ing in  the  top  five.  They  become  the  14th 
and  15th  Cardinal  runners  inducted  into  the 
SUNYAC  Hall  of  Fame. 

Long  joins  other  past  individual  champi- 
ons from  Plattsburgh  State  including  Cardi- 
nal Sports  Hall  of  Fame  inductee  Bruce 
Teague  ('74,  '75),  Bob  Russell  ('79)  and  Jer- 
emy Burt  ('96).  Long  said  Burt,  whom  he 
used  to  run  with  last  year,  "was  really  a  big 
inspiration  for  me.  I  think  it's  great  I  can  be 
compared  to  him  and  have  comparable  run- 
ning times  like  his." 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men's  cross  coun- 
try team  is  idle  this  week  as  they  prepare  for 
the  ECACs  which  will  be  held  at  Westfield 
State  (MA)  on  Saturday,  Nov.  7.  The  men 
are  also  preparing  for  the  NCAA  Regional 
in  Saratoga  Nov.  15,  and  the  NCAA  Nation- 
als, which  will  be  held  Nov.  22  in  Boston. 


[2] 


Award-Winning  Author  Ronald  Takaki  to  Speak  Nov.  10 


Award-winning  author  Ronald  Takaki  will  speak  at 
Plattsburgh  State  University  of  New  York  on  Monday, 
Nov.  10,  at  8  p.m.  in  the  Warren  Ballrooms  of  the  Angell 
College  Center  as  part  of  the  President's  Speaker  Series. 

The  grandson  of  Japanese  plantation  laborers  in  Hawaii 
and  a  professor  of  ethnic  studies  at  the  University  of 
California  at  Berkeley,  Takaki  has  taken  on  the  role  of 
spokesperson  for  multicultural  education.  His  1993  book, 
A  Different  Mirror:  A  History  of  Multicultural  America,  is 
a  study,  of  America  from  the  founding  of  Jamestown  in 
1607  to  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  in  the  1990s.  His  study 
analyzes  comparatively  the  experiences  of  African  Ameri- 
cans, Asian  Americans,  Chicanos,  and  Native  Americans 
as  well  as  English,  Irish,  and  Jewish  Americans. 

In  his  lectures,  Takaki  demonstrates  that 
multiculturalism  is  not  only  an  unquestionably  accurate 
assessment  of  social  reality,  but  also  an  intellectually 
stimulating  approach  to  an  array  of  academic  disciplines. 
He  has  lectured  throughout  Russia,  Europe  and  Asia  on 
ethnicity  and  racial  conflicts. 

His  appearance  is  made  possible  through  the  President's  Speak- 
ers Series,  which  is  sponsored  by  the  offices  of  the  presidents  of 


Takaki 


Plattsburgh  State  and  the  Student  Association,  and  the  College 
Auxiliary  Services.  Takaki' s  speech  is  free  and  open  to  the  public. 


Four  Grant  Proposals  to  Receive  Funding 


The  SUNY  Research  Foundation  has 
announced  the  funding  of  several  grant 
applications  for  faculty  and  staff  projects 
totaling  more  than  $36,000. 

Two  $1,839  grants  were  awarded  to 
Feinberg  Library,  one  by  the  New  York 
State  Library  Division  of  Library  De- 
velopment and  the  other  by  New  York 
State  Education  Department,  to  be  used 
for  environmental  monitoring  and  con- 
trols in  the  library's  Special  Collections. 
The  funds  will  be  used  to  assist  in  im- 
proving and  monitoring  the  environ- 
mental conditions  where  Feinberg's  ar- 
chival collection  is  housed. 

In  particular,  the  library  needed  funds 
to  purchase  UV  filtering  sleeves  for  the 
standard  fluorescent  lamps  installed  in 
the  main  collection  area.  In  addition, 
funds  will  be  used  to  purchase  tempera- 
ture monitoring  instruments.  Electronic 
measuring  and  recording  devices  offer 
advantages  over  conventional  methods. 

A  $7,500  grant  was  awarded  to  the 
Center  for  Earth  and  Environmental 
Science  Department  for  Dr.  David 
Franzi's  work  in  compiling  watershed 
information  and  assessment  of  nonpoint 
source  pollution  in  a  Geographic  Infor- 
mation System  database  for  the  Little 


Chazy  River  watershed.  The  database 
will  provide  baseline  information  for 
resource  managers  and  planners  to  iden- 
tify potential  sources  of  nonpoint  source 
pollutants  and  to  aid  in  evaluating  the 
impact  of  nonpoint  pollution  on  water 
quality  in  the  watershed  and  Lake 
Champlain.  Funds  for  Franzi's  work 
were  made  available  through  the  Clinton 
County  Planning  Department 

The  Bell  Atlantic  Foundation  granted 
the  Center  for  Educational  Studies  and 
Services,  in  collaboration  with  the  North 
Country  Teacher  Resource  Center,  a 
$25,000  grant  to  provide  intensive  train- 
ing in  technology  utilization,  especially 
telecommunications,  for  students  en- 
rolled in  the  professional  semester  and 
in  student  teaching. 

Last  year,  the  Center  and  NCTRC 
provided  telecommunications  training 
for  secondary  education  p re-service 
teachers  and  their  cooperating  in-ser- 
vice teachers  in  a  pilot  project  during 
the  professional  semester.  This  funding 
allows  expansion  of  that  program  and 
takes  the  project  to  the  next  step,  pro- 
viding additional  training  activities  dur- 
ing the  student  teaching  semester  that 
follows  the  professional  semester. 


Soul'd  Out  II  Concert 
to  Benefit  Child  Abuse 
Prevention  Program 


Faculty,  staff  and  students  will  have  the 
chance  to  bare  their  souls  at  a  variety  show 
to  raise  funds  for  the  Plattsburgh  Child  Abuse 
Prevention  Program. 

"Soul'd  Out  II,"  sponsored  by  the  School 
of  Business  and  Economics  and  Sigma  Delta 
Tau  and  coordinated  by  Drs.  James  Csipak 
and  Kevin  O'Neill,  begins  at  6:30  p.m.  in 
the  Warren  Ballrooms  Thursday,  Nov.  13. 

"We're  looking  for  anyone  on  campus 
interested  in  performing,"  said  Csipak.  "Po- 
etry reading,  juggling,  piano,  comedy  skits 
—  anything  that's  decent  and  legal  we're 
interested  in." 

In  an  effort  to  monitor  and  maintain  taste- 
fulness  in  the  evening's  venues,  Csipak  said 
an  audition  for  interested  participants  will 
be  held  Oct.  30  from  6  to  1 0  p.m.  in  Hawkins 
Hall  Room  125. 

Admission  to  the  Nov.  1 3  performance  is 
$3  at  the  door. 

"All  proceeds  go  to  the  Child  Abuse 
Prevention  Program,"  Csipak  said.  "It's  a 
lot  of  fun  for  a  serious  cause,  and  students 
will  get  to  see  each  other  and  faculty  mem- 
bers in  a  different  light." 

For  more  information,  call  Csipak  at  564- 
4219. 


[3] 


Xylophone  Symbol'  of  Thai  Village 

Adams  Donate  Musical  Instrument  to  Music  Program 


The  hand-made  wooden  xylophone  Ken 
Adams  recently  donated  to  the  music  pro- 
gram at  Plattsburgh  State  was  more  than  a 
souvenir.  "It  was  a  symbol  of  the  good  days 
in  Tha-U-Then,  a  small  village  on  the 
Mekong  River,1'  said  Adams. 

A  professor  in  the  Center  for  Earth  and 
Environmental  Science,  Adams  was  an  Air 
Force  sergeant  stationed  at  Nakhon  Phanom 
Royal  Thai  Air  Base  in  the  early  1970s.  His 
intelligence  unit  was  responsible  for  moni- 
toring the  movement  of  North  Vietnamese 
troops  and  supplies  on  the  Ho  Chi  Minh  trails 
in  Laos  and  Cambodia.  The  information  was 
used  to  determine  "real  time"  and  strategic 
bombing  targets. 

During  his  time  off,  Adams  said,  "four  of 
us  would  visit  the  school  in  Tha-U-Then  and 
meet  with  the  teachers  and  children.  The 
villagers  had  so  little  in  terms  of  material 
things  but  they  were  rich  in  human  spirit." 

"Thai  children  have  the  greatest  smiles  in 
the  world,"  remembered  Adams. 

In  one  of  his  visits  to  the  village,  he 


received  the  wooden  xylo- 
phone as  a  gift.  And,  even 
though  Adams  does  not  play 
the  instrument,  he  has  held 
onto  the  "conversation  piece" 
for  the  past  25  years. 

"I  learned  about  Buddha, 
Thai  music,  and  that  point- 
ing your  foot  at  someone  is 
an  impolite  gesture,"  Adams 
said  of  his  visits  with  the 
local  Thai  people.  "We 
gained  a  greater  understand- 
ing of  each  other's  cultures 
and  customs." 

The  xylophone  is  now  in  Drs>  Ken  Adams  and  Marshall  Onofrio  exam  the  hand-made  Thai 
the  hands  of  Dr.  Marshall  wooden  xylophone  Adams  recently  donated  to  the  Music  Program  at 
Onofrio,  coordinator  of  the  thecol,ege- 


music  program.  Onofrio  said  he  has  plans  for 
the  musical  instrument  that  is  kept  in  a  secure 
and  humidity-controlled  room. 

"I'm  sure  that  the  xylophone  will  be  a 
great  addition  to  our  World  Music  and  Acous- 
tics courses,"  said  Onofrio.  "The  Percussion 


"Roof-A-Thon"  Nets  Fraternity  $1,700  to 
Improve  Handicapped  Accessibility 


Members  of  Pi  Kappa  Phi  waved  to  shoppers  as  the  fraternity  brothers  spent  two  chilly  nights  on  the  roof 
of  Wal-Mart  to  raise  funds  for  PUSH  America. 

The  Pi  Kappa  Phi  Fraternity  at  Plattsburgh  State  University  recently  held  its  annual 
"Roof-A-Thon"  on  top  of  Wal-Mart  in  Plattsburgh. 

Fraternity  members  camped  out  on  the  large  department  store's  roof  through  the 
weekend,  while  other  members  sold  raffle  tickets  below.  A  portion  of  the  more  than  $1,700 
raised  during  the  weekend  will  be  donated  to  the  North  Country  Center  for  Independence 
through  the  fraternity's  national  philanthropy,  PUSH  America.  PUSH  America  serves 
people  with  disabilities.  NCCI  will  use  these  funds  to  advance  their  effort  to  improve 
accessibility  for  people  with  disabilities  in  the  North  Country. 

The  members  of  Pi  Kappa  Phi  will  also  devote  a  portion  of  their  community  service  efforts 
to  the  North  Country  Center  through  other  future  local  projects  to  improve  accessibility  for 
people  with  disabilities. 


Ensemble  may  have  occasion  to  include  it  in 
their  performances  as  well." 

He  also  said  that  the  wooden  instrument, 
which  produces  different  musical  pitches, 
will  be  tested  for  comparison  to  the  tradi- 
tional western  scale. 


"FutureDay"  Business 
Conference  Set  For 
Nov.  12 

B  usiness  may  be  looking  up  now. 
But  what  direction  will  business  be 
looking  in  six  months?  Or  at  the 
turn  of  the  century  ? 

No  one  knows  for  certain  but 
five  of  the  top  business  trend  fore- 
casters in  America  will  meet  on  the 
same  stage  to  hold  "FutureDay,"  a 
live,  closed  circuit,  national  semi- 
nar on  the  future  of  business  Nov. 
12. 

The  seven- hour  long  seminar, 
which  will  originate  in  Chicago, 
will  be  broadcast  live  in  the  Angell 
College  Center  Cardinal  Lounge 
beginning  at  10:15  a.m.  The  local 
broadcast  of  "FutureDay"  is  being 
sponsored  by  the  Center  for  Life- 
long Learning  and  College  Auxil- 
iary Services. 

The  cost  of  the  conference  is 
$199  and  will  include  lunch.  To 
register  for  the  conference,  call  800- 
262-3795. 


[4] 


Art  Faculty  Exhibition  Opens  Today  With  Reception 


The  Pittsburgh  State  Art  Department's 
Faculty  Exhibition  will  be  held  Oct.  30 
through  Jan.  9,  1998,  in  the  Burke  Gallery, 
Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

Ten  faculty  members  of  the  art  depart- 
ment will  display  various  art  work  during  the 
exhibition. 

The  faculty  and  their  works  include:  Robin 
Brown,  college  photographer  and  lecturer, 
photographs;  William  Crosby,  professor, 
photographs  and  painting;  Diane  Fine,  asso- 
ciate professor  of  art,  prints  and  book  arts; 
Susan  Lezon,  adjunct  faculty  member,  pho- 
tographs; Berry  Matthews,  associate  profes- 
sor, ceramics;  Richard  Mikkelson,  profes- 
sor, drawings  and  paintings;  Don  Osborne, 
professor,  sculptures;  Peter  Russom,  adjunct 
lecturer,  paintings;  Rick  Salzman,  profes- 
sor, graphic  design;  and  Roger  Williams, 
professor,  photographs. 


"Smoke  Screen"  by  Diane  Fine,  a  print  produced 
by  intaglio,  will  be  one  of  the  art  works  on  display 
during  the  faculty  exhibit. 

An  opening  reception  will  be  held  today  4 
-  6  p.m.  in  the  Burke  Gallery. 


Plattsburgh  State  Celebrates  Canada  Day 


Rick  White(right),  a  senior  business  management  major  from  Patchogue  who  is  also  minoring  in  Cana- 
dian Studies,  points  to  a  display  at  one  of  the  information  booths  manned  by  students  in  the  Angell 
College  Center  during  Canada  Day,  Oct.  23.  Several  faculty  members  discussed  Canada's  relations 
with  the  LLS,  and  other  countries,  and  Bernard  Etzinger,  the  deputy  head  of  the  Political/Economic 
Relations  and  Academic  Affairs  Division  of  the  Consulate  General  of  Canada  in  New  York  City,  was 
also  on  hand  to  speak  with  students  throughout  the  day.  


Poland  Focus  of  Nov.  3  North 

Emerging  business  and  trade  opportunities  in  Poland  will  be  the 
focus  of  activities  during  a  workshop  on  Monday,  Nov.  3  in  the 
Angell  College  Center.  Andrzej  Laganowski,  the  Polish  Commer- 
cial Counselor,  Zofia  Scnhitzer,  the  Polish  Embassy  Economic  At- 
tache, and  George  Buchanan,  the  regional  representative  for  federal 
export  assistance  at  the  Buffalo  Export  Assistance  Center,  will  offer 
an  inside  look  at  one  of  the  world's  fastest-growing  economies. 

Participant  will  discuss  business  and  investment  opportunities  in 
Poland,  that  country's  food  industry,  emerging  markets,  export 
assistance  programs,  and  prospects  for  forming  strategic  alliances 
with  European  companies  in  Poland,  Russia  and  other  Center  Euro- 


Marriott  Receives 
Employer  A  wards 

Workforce  Network  in  Plattsburgh  has 
chosen  Marriott  Corporation  as  its  Employer 
of  the  Year. 

At  its  awards  ceremony  Oct.  14,  the  job 
placement  service  for  individuals  with  dis- 
abilities said  it  chose  Marriott  because  it 
"exemplifies  the  qualities  that  are  impera- 
tive to  a  successful  supported-work  pro- 
gram." 

To  celebrate  October  as  National  Disabil- 
ity Employment  Awareness  Month, 
Workforce  honors  a  local  employer  that  sup- 
ports employees  with  disabilities. 

In  addition,  Marriott  received  the  New 
York  State  Employer  Recognition  Award 
from  the  New  York  State  Department  of 
Labor,  Empire  State  Development  Voca- 
tional and  Education  Service  for  Individuals 
with  Disabilities  and  the  New  York  State 
Commission  for  the  Blind.  This  marks  the 
second  year  in  a  row  that  Marriott  has  been 
honored  by  this  award,  which  recognizes 
businesses  that  employ  the  developmentally 
disabled  in  Clinton,  Essex  and  Franklin  coun- 
ties. 

Visual  Artist  Series 

Keiko  Hara,  Painter 
To  Speak  Nov.  5 

Painter,  printmaker  and  installation  artist 
Keiko  Hara  will  present  her  works  on  cam- 
pus as  part  of  the  Visual  Artist  Series  Wednes- 
day, Nov.  5  at  7:30  p.m.  in  the  Cardinal 
Lounge. 

Hara  marks  the  fourth  and  final  visual 
artist  series  presentation.  The  Visual  Artist 
Series  is  sponsored  by  the  Plattsburgh  State 
Student  Association  and  Campus  Arts  Coun- 
cil. 


pean  markets  at  briefings  during  the  morning  in  the  Cardinal  Lounge. 

During  the  afternoon,  businesses  can  schedule  an  individualized 
counseling  session  with  one  of  the  three  speakers.  There  is  no  charge 
for  the  sessions,  but  advance  registration  is  required. 

The  workshop  is  being  sponsored  by  the  School  of  Business  and 
Economics  in  cooperation  with  the  North  Country  Trade  Council  and 
the  Plattsburgh-North  Country  Chamber  of  Comerce. 

On  Tuesday,  Nov.  4,  the  Polish  representatives  will  meet  with 
officials  from  Clinton  County  Area  Development  Corporation,  the 
Plattsburgh  Airbase  Redevelopment  Corporation,  Plattsburgh  City 
Development  Office,  and  Bombardier  Corporation. 


[5] 


In  Pictures  and  Words 


Homecoming  Weekend  '97 


[6] 


Merrens,  Brannigan  Put  Personality  into  Textbook 


Drs.  Matthew  Merrens  and  Gary 
Brannigan  have  injected  some  personal- 
ity into  a  text  about  personality. 

The  two  psychology  professors  have 
written  Experiences  in  Personality:  Re- 
search,  Assessment,  and  Cliange,  a  work- 
book-like text  designed  to  supplement  the 
more  traditional,  and  often  staid,  person- 
ality textbooks. 

Arranged  with  a  combination  of  read- 
ings, culled  from  various  sources,  hands- 
on  learning  exercises  and  a  feature  called 
"Spotlight,"  in  which  research  projects 
and  studies  are  highlighted  and  profiled, 
the  book  covers  standard  topics  in  per- 


Merrens  Brannigan 


sonality  in  an  engaging  way. 

"You  Know  What  They  Say ..."  is  a  read- 
ing about  proverbs  and  their  validity  —  or 
lack  thereof — in  life.  "Fortune  Tellers  Never 


Starve"  discusses  the  ever-popular  use  of 
psychics  in  today's  society,  and  "What  I 
Meant  to  Say"  takes  a  wry  look  at  the 
Freudian  slip  of  the  tongue. 

"AH  too  often  traditional  texts  present 
materials  in  a  dry,  static  manner," 
Merrens  and  Brannigan  write  in  their 
introduction.  They  should  know  what 
they're  talking  about  The  pair  have  had 
to  use  those  traditional  texts  in  their  own 
classrooms. 

"It  is  our  belief  that  this  book  will 
provide  a  more  favorable  learning  cli- 
mate that  will  enable  (students)  to  engage 
with  the  topics  more  successfully." 


SPOTLIGHT 


Dr.  Anthony  J,  D'Aristotile 

Don  Garrant 

Dr.  James  M.  Lindgren 

Wayne  Miller 

Tim  Myers 

Dr.  Pilar  del  Carmen  Tirado 
Dr,  Nicholas  Troisi 


D'Aristotile 


Dr.  Anthony  J.  D'Aristotile,  professor  of 
mathematics,  was  a  visiting  scholar  at 
Stanford  University 
over  the  past  several 
summers  and  com- 
pleted two  papers:  "An 
Invariance  Principle  for 
Triangular  Arrays;"  and 
"Brownian  Motion  and 
the  Classical  Groups." 
He  is  the  sole  author  of 
the  first  and  worked 
jointly  on  the  second  with  Professor  Persi 
Diaconis  ol  Cornell  University  and  Profes- 
sor Charles  Newman  of  the  Courant  Institute 
of  Mathematical  Sciences.  Both  articles  will 
appear  as  technical  reports  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Statistics  of  Stanford  University. 
Don  Garrant.  assistant  to  the  president  for 
college  relations  and 
development,  was  re- 
cently appointed  by 
Governor  George 
Pataki  as  New  York 
State's  Local  Govern- 
ment Representative  to 
the  Lake  Champlain 
Steering  Committee. 

(warrant  & 


The  committee  oversees  a  $2  million  budget 
to  cleanup  the  lake  that  is  surrounded  by 
New  York,  Vermont  and  the  Canadian  prov- 
ince of  Quebec.  Garrant  has  been  in  local 
government  as  a  county  legislator  since  1 974. 
Dr.  James  M.  Lindgren,  professor  of  his- 
tory, was  a  keynote 
speaker  at  a  conference, 
"Beyond  the  Life- 
styles of  the  Rich  and 
Famous :  New  Ideas  for 
Old  Houses,"  Oct.  4  in 
Cooperstown.  His  ad- 
dress, "Old  Buildings 
in  a  New  Nation:  The 
Changing  Meaning  of 
Historic  Preservation  in  the  Nineteenth  and 
Twentieth  Centuries,"  was  co-sponsored  by 
the  Cooperstown  Graduate  Program  in  His- 
tory Museum  Studies  and  the  Cooperstown 
Graduate  Association. 
Wayne  Miller,  associ- 
ate librarian,  was  re- 
cently awarded  the 
Mary  G.  Leggett  Award 
for  his  service  on  the 
Clinton-Essex- 
Franklin  Library 
System's  Board  of 
Trustees. 


Lindgren 


Tirado 


Myers 


Miller 


Tim  Myers,  lecturer  in 
education,  has  pub- 
lished 15  poems,  in- 
cluding one  in  South- 
ern Humanities  Review 
and  two  in  Eclectic  Lit- 
erary Forum.  He' s  also 
placed  three  children's 
pieces  with  magazines 


in  the  Cobblestone  group  and  recently  had  a 
second  story,  "Why  the  Volcanoes  are  Quiet 
on  Oahu"  accepted  by  Cricket  Magazine. 
Dr.  Pilar  del  Carmen  Tirado,  assistant 
professor  of  Spanish 
language  and  literature, 
presented  a  paper  at 
Hofstra  University  in 
Hempstead,  N.Y.  at  an 
Oct.  16-18  conference 
on  Spanish  and  Span- 
ish-American Litera- 
ture in  the  Arts  of  the 
World.  The  paper,  en- 
titled "Bridges  of  Song:  Christian,  Judaic 
and  Islamic  Influences  in  Poetry  and  Mu- 
sic," examines  multicultural  perspectives  on 
the  end  of  Moorish  Spain. 
Dr.  Nicholas  Troisi,  professor  emeritus  of 
education  and  former  dean  of  the  faculty  of 
professional  studies, 
has  been  selected  by  the 
Middle  States  Associa- 
tion of  Colleges  and 
Universities  fo  serve  as 
chairman  of  an  evalua- 
tion team  for  accredita- 
tion of  the  American 
Cooperative  School  in 
Tunis,  Tunisia  Dec.  6- 
1 1 .  The  school  enrolls  students  grades  kin- 
dergarten through  12.  Troisi  has  served  on 
20  evaluation  teams  and  chaired  1 2  of  them. 
Troisi  retired  in  1990  after  serving  35  years 
on  the  college  faculty  and  administration. 


Troisi 


[7] 


Cardinal  Sports 


Pittsburgh's  Scott  Slade  Named 
SUNYAC  Coach  of  the  Year 

Cross  Country  Head  Coach  Scott  Slade  earned  both  the  men's 
coach  of  the  year  and  women's  coach  of  the  year  honors  as  the 
men  claimed  their  third  SUNYAC 
title  in  the  last  four  years  and  the 
women  finished  second  at  the 
SUNYAC  Cross  Country  Champi- 
onship meet  Oct.  18  in  Buffalo. 
This  was  the  first  year  that  coach 
of  the  year  selections  were  made 
in  SUNYAC  cross  country. 

"Scott's  selection  in  both  men's 
and  women's  cross  country  is  a 
well  deserved  accolade,"  said 
Larry  Cowan.  Plattsburgh  State's 
director  of  athletics.  "He  is  a 
humble  and  unassuming  professional  who,  through  hard  work 
and  dedication,  has  earned  the  respect  of  his  student-athletes 
and  colleagues.  We  are  all  very  proud  of  him." 


Slade 


Men's  Soccer  Team  Continue  Win  Streak 

The  men's  soccer  team  improved  their  winning  streak  to  five 
games  as  the  Cardinals  defeated  Oberlin,  OH,  and  conference  foe 
Potsdam  last  week. 

Mike  DiCrescenzo  of  Clifton  Park  had  two  goals  and  an  assist  to 
help  lead  Plattsburgh  to  a  5-0  rout  of  Oberlin  on  Oct.  21 .  The  Cards, 
who  outshot  Oberlin  14-1,  also  got  goals  from  Marc  Hinds  of 
Rochester,  Christian  Gondek  of  Chazy,  and  Dan  Corbett  of  Oswego 
in  the  win.  Andrew  Cumbo  of  Fairport  made  one  stop  in  goal  to  post 
the  shutout  for  Plattsburgh. 

The  Cardinals  had  their  second  five-goal  performance  of  the 
week  as  Plattsburgh  defeated  Potsdam  5-1  in  their  final  SUNYAC 
game  of  the  season  Nov.  23.  The  Cards  got  two  goals  from  Dan 
Ciolck  of  Ithaca  as  well  as  goals  from  DiCrescenzo,  Gondek  and 
Richard  Arazosa  of  Miller  Place.  With  the  win.  the  Cardinals  finish 
conference  play  in  second  place  behind  Fredonia. 

The  men  were  on  the  road  to  play  St.  Lawrence  Tuesday  and  will 
face  Clarkson  on  Friday  at  home. 

Women's  Cross  Country  Runner  Take 
Second  at  NCAA  Regional  Meet 

Despite  being  without  their  top  runner  Cara  Cameron  of  Delmar, 
the  women's  cross  country  team  had  a  strong  showing  at  the  pre- 
NCAA  regional  meet  at  Saratoga,  last  weekend,  finishing  second  out 
of  10  teams. 

K.T.  Vanboden  of  Cleveland  was  the  top  finisher  for  the  Cardi- 
nals, covering  the  course  in  a  personal  best  of  1 9e;08  to  finish  ninth. 
Amy  Nutt  of  Champlain  was  the  second  Cardinal  to  cross  the  finish 
line,  in  10th.  Heather  Spellman  of  Plattsburgh.  ChristinaTorrence  of 
Fairport  and  Audrey  Hendricks  of  Altamont  finished  17th.  19th  and 
20th.  respectively. 

The  women  will  be  idle  this  week  as  they  gear  up  for  the  ECACs 
that  will  be  held  at  Westfield  State  (MA),  on  Nov.  7. 


Women's  Soccer  Team 
Receives  NYSWCAA  Bid 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  soccer  team  rolled  past  Potsdam 
4-1  before  battling  Skidmore  to  a  0-0  double-overtime  tie  in  their 
regular  season  finale. 

The  Cardinals  got  goals  from  Jessica  Allen  of  Buffalo,  Jamie 
Retersdorf  of  Gloversville,  Karen  Perrotta  of  Mahopac  and  Carrie 
Rose  of  Waddington  in  their  win  over  Potsdam  Oct.  22  and  closing 
out  the  team's  State  University  of  New  York  Athletic  Conference 
schedule. 

The  Cardinals  also  held  a  commanding  2 1  -6  advantage  in  shots  on 
goal,  but  could  not  find  the  back  of  the  net  as  Plattsburgh  and 
Skidmore  played  to  a  0-0  double-overtime  tie  on  Saturday,  Oct.  23. 
Marnie  Feldman  of  Northvillc,  starting  in  her  second  game  of  the 
season,  went  the  entire  120  minutes  in  goal,  stopping  six  shots  to 
hold  Skidmore  scoreless. 

With  a  bid  to  the  1997  New  York  State  Women's  Collegiate 
Athletic  Association  (NYSWCAA)  Tournament,  the  Plattsburgh 
State  women's  soccer  team  (10-5-3)  made  their  eighth  consecutive 
post-season  appearence. 

The  Cardinals  streak  of  post-season  appearances  began  in  1990, 
head  coach  Karen  Wiley's  first  season  at  Plattsburgh.  Plattsburgh, 
the  defending  NYSWCAA  champions,  traveled  to  face  #4  seed 
Union  College  ( 1 0-4- 1 )  on  Wednesday,  Oct.  29,  at  2:00  p.m. 

Plattsburgh  and  Union  met  last  season  in  the  NYSWCAA  play- 
offs with  the  Cardinals  defeating  the  Dutchwoman  at  home  by  a  5- 
1  score.  The  Cardinals  then  defeated  Geneseo  (3-2  ot)  and  Nazareth 
(2-1  ot)  to  win  the  1996  NYSWCAA  Championship. 

The  semifinal  and  finals  of  the  1997  NYSWCAA  Tournament 
will  be  held  on  Saturday,  Nov.  1 ,  and  Sunday,  Nov.  2,  on  the  campus 
of  SUNY  Onconta. 


Women 's  Volleyball  Team  Wait 
For  NYSWCAA  Tourney  Bid 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  volleyball  team  closed  out  their 
regular  season  this  week  with  wins  over  St.  Lawrence,  Green 
Mountain  and  Skidmore  to  Finish  18-17  overall. 

The  Cardinals  used  a  balanced  attack  to  sweep  St.  Lawrence  3-0 
(15-4,  15-4,  15-6),  Oct.  21.Tracey  Groblewski  of  Holtsvillc  led  the 
charge  for  Plattsburgh  recording  seven  kills  and  three  digs,  while 
Karianne  Gronau  of  Cuyler  registered  six  kills  and  six  assists.  Jackie 
Rotelli  of  Keeseville  added  five  kills  and  nine  assists. 

The  team  also  competed  in  the  three-team  Skidmore  Invitational 
Oct.  25  winning  matches  against  Green  Mountain  and  Skidmore  but 
losing  to  Middlebury.  Rotelli  led  the  Cardinals  with  28  kills,  and 
Kcrri  Heaney  of  Greenwood  Lake  notched  1 1  kills,  3 1  assists  and  28 
digs  in  her  final  collegiate  matches. 

The  Skidmore  Invitational  closed  out  the  regular  season  for 
Plattsburgh.  The  Cardinals,  who  posted  their  first  winning  season  in 
head  coach  Lisa  Vicencio's  four  seasons  at  Plattsburgh.  now  await 
a  possible  bid  to  the  1997  New  York  State  Women's  Collegiate 
I  Athletic  Association  Volleyball  Tournament. 


[8] 


focus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 

Thursday,  October  30  -  Wednesday,  November  12 
Unless  otherwise  noted,  all  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public. 


Thursday,  October  30 

1 1 :30  a.m.  -  1  p.m.  —  National  Student  Exchange  information  table, 
sponsored  by  International  Programs  Office.  Angell  Center  Lobby. 
12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  "More  than  a 
Misunderstanding:  Sexual  Harassment  on  Campus,"  featuring  a  blend  of 
comic/dramatic  vignettes  combined  with  factual  information,  developed  by 
Dartmouth  College.  Sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies  Program  with 
assistance  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 
4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop 
Series  presents  "More  than  a  Misunder- 
standing: Sexual  Harassment  on  Campus." 
Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center  and  the 
Sexual  Harassment  Committee.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
5  p.m.  —  Club  Caribbean  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
5:30  p.m.  —  Academic  Advisement  for 
Sociology  and  Criminal  Justice  Majors, 
sponsored  by  the  Sociology  Dept.  Angell 
Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 
8  p.m.  —  "The  Dating  Game"  sponsored 
by  the  Organization  of  Women  of  Ethnicity. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 
8  p.m. — Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Depart- 
ment presents  the  Scottish  play  Macbeth, 
featuring  an  all-college  cast.  Tickets:  $1 
SA  Members,  $5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8 
general  admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine 
Arts  Building. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of 
Ethnicity  weekly  meeting.,  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Adirondack  Experience  Club 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 


NOTES: 


Saturday,  November  1 

10:30a.m.  -  24-Hour  Sleep-Out  to  benefit  the  Homeless,  sponsored  by 
Alpha  Phi  Omega  Service  Fraternity.  Angell  Center  Amite  Plaza. 

8  p.m.  — Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Department  presents  the  Scottish  play 
Macbeth,  featuring  an  all-college  cast.  Tickets:  $  1  S  A  Members,  $5  faculty/ 
staff/seniors,  $8  general  admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

9  p.m.  —  Saturday  Night  at  the  Angell  Center  presents  the  film  Rocky 
Horror  Picture  Show,  sponsored  by  Moffitt 
and  Macdonough  Hall.  Admission  is  free, 
costume  contest  included.  Angell  Center  War- 
ren Ballrooms. 


Bus  to  Montreal  set  for  Saturday,  Nov  .  1 5, 9  a.m. 
-  5:30  p.m. 

Sponsored  by  the  Office  of  Campus  Life. 
Tickets:  $10  round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk. 

Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street 
pull -off  and  brings  you  to  Dorchester  Square. 

Public  Skating  at  the  Plattsburgh  State  Field 
House, 

1 :30  -  2:45  p.m.  Nov.  1 , 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 23, 29, 
30. 

Admission  is  $2  for  the  public,  $  1  for  Plattsburgh 
State  Students  with  ID.  Skate  Rentals  available  at 
the  same  rates.  Field  House. 

Recreational  Skating  for  Plattsburgh  State 
Faculty  and  Staff 

12-  1pm,  Oct.  30  and  Nov.  4, 6, 1 1 , 1 3, 1 8, 20, 25. 
No  charge.  For  further  information  call  4062. 


Friday,  October  31 

2:30  p.m.  —  Men's  Soccer  vs.  Clarkson 
University.  Plattsburgh  State  Field  House. 
4  p.m.  —  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
4:30-6  p.m.  —  AKEBA  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
6  p.m.  —  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh 

Room.  

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Special  Halloween 

Movie  presentation:  Scream,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association. 
Tickets  $1  SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

8  p.m.  —  Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Department  presents  the  Scottish  play 
Macbeth,  featuring  an  all-college  cast.  Tickets:  $  1  SA  Members,  $5  faculty/ 
staff/seniors,  $8  general  admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

9:30  p.m. — Open  Mic  Program  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie,  Plattsburgh  State 
Student.  Java  Jo's,  Angell  Center. 

11p.m.  —  Halloween  Party  and  Reception  sponsored  by  El  Pueblo.  Tickets: 
$3  SA  Members,  $3  faculty/staff/public,  on  sale  at  the  AC  Desk.  Angell 
Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 


1998-99  Resident  Assistant  position  applica- 
tions are  available  at  the  Angell  College  Center 
Desk. 

All  full-time  students  who  will  be  enrolled  in  an 
on-campus  program  for  the  entire  1998-99  aca- 
demic year  and  who  have  achieved  a  2.75  cumu- 
lative grade  point  average,  effective  Jan.  1998, 
are  eligible  to  apply. 

The  application  deadline  is  Friday,  Dec.  5,  1997, 
by  4:30  p.m.  Applications  must  be  filed  at  the 
Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students.  For  further 
information  contact  Cheryl  Hogle  or  Aaron 
Bochniak  at  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students. 


Sunday,  November  2 

2  p.m.  —  Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Depart- 
ment presents  the  Scottish  play  Macbeth, 
featuring  an  all-college  cast.  Tickets:  $1  SA 
Members,  $5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8  gen- 
eral admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center 
Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts 
Building. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the 
Movies  Series  presents  The  Lost  World:  Ju- 
rassic Park  sponsored  by  the  Student  Asso- 
ciation. Tickets  $1  SA  Members  or  Movie 
Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

Monday,  November  3 

9  a.m.  -  Public  presentation:  "Business  Op- 
portunities in  Poland,"  sponsored  by  the  Tech- 
nical Assistance  Center/IB ERT.  Angell  Cen- 
ter Cardinal  Lounge. 

1 2  p.m. — PSU  Chapter  of  United  University 
Professions,  Executive  Board  Meeting,  open 
to  campus.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
8  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association 
weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Warren  Ballroom  A.. 
8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 


Tuesday,  November  4 

1 1  a.m.  -  1  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus 
employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  6. 

12: 1 5  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Heather  Duquette, 
Student  Health  Center,  speaking  on  "Nutrition/Procuisine,"  sponsored  by 
the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting. 


Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  2. 

8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  November  5 

3  p.m.  —  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room 

232. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7:30  p.m.  —  Visual  Artist  Series  presents  Keiko  Hara,  sponsored  by  the 
Campus  Arts  Council.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Thursday,  November  6 

12:10  -  1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Shakuntala  Rao 
speaking  on  "Women-As-Symbol;  Intersections  of  Gender  Identity  and 
Indian  Nationalism/'  sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies  Program  with 
assistance  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Steve  Frederick, 
Plattsburgh  State  Alum,  speaking  on  "Personal  Financial  Planning."  Spon- 
sored by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Caribbean  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

Friday,  November  7 

4  p.m.  —  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 
4:30-6  p.m.  — AKEBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

6  p.m.  —  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m. — The  Black  Student  Union  Conference  presents  Bobby  Seale  giving 
a  public  address,  sponsored  by  AKEBA.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

9  p.m.  —  Open  Mic  Night,  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie.  Angell  Center  Java 
Jo's. 

9:30  p.m.  —  Black  Student  Union  Conference  hosts  a  candle  lighting 
ceremony  to  commemorate  the  29th  Anniversary  of  BSU,  sponsored  by 
AKEBA.  Angell  Center  Courtyard. 

Saturday,  November  8 

10  a.m.  -  5  p.m.  —  Annual  Fall  Arts  and  Crafts  Fair  featuring  over  170 
vendors  from  New  York,  Vermont  and  Canada,  sponsored  by  Campus  Life. 
Admission:  $1  public,  Free  for  children  under  12  and  Plattsburgh  State 
Students.  Field  House  Gymnasium. 

12-4  p.m.  —  Children's  Day  sponsored  by  the  Organization  of  Education 
Majors.  Sibley  Hall  Cafetorium. 

1  p.m.  —  Joint  meeting  with  the  Lake  Champlain  Committee:  "Aquatic 
Nuisances,"  sponsored  by  the  Center  for  Earth  and  Environmental  Science. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Sunday,  November  9 

10  a.m.  -  4  p.m.  —  Annual  Fall  Arts  and  Crafts  Fair  featuring  over  170 
vendors  from  New  York,  Vermont  and  Canada,  sponsored  by  Campus  Life. 
Admission:  $1  public,  Free  for  children  under  12  and  Plattsburgh  State 
Students.  Field  House  Gymnasium. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9: 15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents  My  Best 
Friend's  Wedding  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets  $1  SA 


Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell  Center 
Warren  Ballrooms. 

Monday,  November  10 

7:30  p.m.  —  The  Campus  Poets  Series  features  Rose  Robinson,  sponsored 

by  the  Department  of  Foreign  Language  and  Literature  and  the  Faculty  of 

Arts  and  Science.  Newman  Center,  90  Broad  Street. 

8  p.m. — The  Presidents'  Speakers  Series  presents  Ronald  Takaki  speaking 

on  "A  Different  Mirror — A  History  of  Multicultural  America."  Sponsored 

by  the  Offices  of  the  Presidents:  Plattsburgh  State,  Student  Association  and 

College  Auxiliary  Services.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

8  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 

Meeting  Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Tuesday,  November  11 

1 1  a.m.  - 1  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus 
employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

1 1 :45am  -  Phi  Kappa  Phi  Honor  Society  sponsors  a  lunch  for  Distinguished 
Visiting  Lecturer  Bernard  Murchland,  open  to  members  only.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  6. 

12: 15  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Brenda  Stiles,  RN, 
speaking  on  "Alternative  Medicines."  Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center. 
Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

4:15  p.m.  —  Faculty  Senate  meeting,  open  to  campus.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

5-6:30  p.m.  —  "Going  Ga-Ga  for  Garlic  Dinner,"  sponsored  by  Quantity 
Foods.  Tickets:  $8  students  and  Senior  Citizens,  $10  faculty/staff/public. 
For  reservations  call  564-2216.  Sibley  Hall  Cafe,  Room  409. 
7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  2. 

7  p.m.  —  Peer  Recruitment  Training  Session  sponsored  by  Admissions. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  —  Champlain  String  Quartet  performance,  sponsored  by  the 
Plattsburgh  State  Music  Department.  Free  admission,  however  advance 
reservations  recommended  -  564-2180.  Hawkins  Recital  Hall. 

8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  November  12 

9:30  a.m.  —  Teleconference:  "Future  Day  —  The  Business  Seminar," 
sponsored  by  the  Center  for  Lifelong  Learning  and  CAS.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

3  p.m.  —  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room 
232. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  Peer  Recruitment  Training  Session  sponsored  by  Admissions. 
Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  —  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 


"Today  @  Plattsburgh"  and  the  "Calendar  of  Events"  at 
Plattsburgh  State  are  accessible  via  the  Internet  at 
www. plattsburgh.  edu. 


Special  Collections 
Feinberg  Lib.,  P6UC 
Does  Not  Circulate 


on 


ocus 


Plattsburgh 

STATE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NEW  YORK 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  November  13,  1997 


Plattsburgh  State  Wins 
Two  Alumni  Awards 

The  Office  of  College  Relations  and 
Development  will  receive  top  honors 
in  two  of  five  categories  in  the  1997 
Awards  for  Excellence  in  Alumni  De- 
velopment and  Programming  by  the 
SUNY  Confederation  of  Alumni  As- 
sociations. 

The  Plattsburgh  State  Alumni  Leg- 
islative Network  received  top  honors 
for  the  second  year  in  a  row  in  the 
Advocacy  Programs  category.  The 
College  was  also  named  winner  in  the 
Undergraduate  and  Recruitment  Pro- 
grams category  for  the  special  early 
spring  issue  of  Plattsburgh  Today, 
which  was  developed  specifically  for 
prospective  students  whom  Admissions 
had  accepted  but  at  that  point  had  not 
accepted  Plattsburgh  State. 

The  legislative  network  matches 
key  Plattsburgh  State  alumni  with  leg- 
islative leaders  and  with  those  state 
law-makers  who  serve  on  key  legisla- 
tive committees.  Alumni  communi- 
cated their  concerns  about  the  proposed 
$124  million  shortfall  in  SUNY's  fis- 
cal year  1997-98  proposed  operating 
budget. 

Several  new  initiatives  took  place, 
including  the  first  "Legislative  Leader- 
ship Forum/*  held  in  February  and 
hosted  by  President  Judson  for  Senator 
Ronald  B .  Stafford  and  Assemlypersons 
Chris  Ortloff  and  Elizabeth  Little.  Also 
attending  the  Forum  were  members  of 
the  administrative  staff,  union  leaders 
and  several  representatives  of  the  stu- 
dent government. 

Also  in  February,  a  meeting  was 
held  between  President  Judson  and 
members  of  the  Press  Republican  edi- 

(See  "Alumni  Awards"  on  Page  2) 


Student  Support  Services  Keeps 
Sailing  With  $1.2  Million  Grant 


Student  Support  Services  will  continue  to 
thrive  at  Plattsburgh  State  well  past  the  year 
2000  thanks  to  renewal  of  a  grant  that  will 
exceed  $1  million. 

Michele  Little,  director  of  the  program, 
said  the  federally  funded  U.S.  Department  of 
Education  grant  has  garnered  $333,091  for 
the  1997-98  budget  year  and  will  increase  by 
two  percent  each  year  thereafter  until  2001, 
bringing  in  about  $1.2  million. 

"Student  Support  Services  is  designed  to 
get  people  through  the  academic  pipeline," 
Little  said.  "We're  the  baccalaureate  com- 
ponent; Upward  Bound  is  the  high-school 
component." 

Students  who  qualify  for  the  program 
must  meet  at  least  one  of  three  criteria:  they 
are  disabled  in  some  way;  neither  parent 
went  to  college;  or  they  meet  income  guide- 
lines. 

"The  income  guideline  is  based  on  net 
taxable  income,"  Little  said.  The  three  areas 
are  broad  enough  that  "nearly  half  of  the 
students  here  would  qualify,"  she  said.  "But 
we  let  the  students  decide  if  they  want  the 
services." 

As  a  result.  Student  Support  Services  helps 
between  500  and  600  students  a  year  in  one 
capacity  or  another,  she  said. 

"We  teach  courses  in  math,  English,  sci- 
ence, reading  —  they're  regular  classes  that 
students  would  take  anywhere  on  campus. 
It' s  just  that  we  can  offer  smaller  classes  with 
tutorial  support." 

Students  who  receive  support  from  the 
program  are  regular  admissions  to  the  col- 
lege. 

"They  find  us.  usually  through  word  of 
mouth  or  referrals  from  faculty  who  see  a 
struggling  student,"  Little  said.  "If  one  stu- 
dent has  a  good  experience,  very  often  he'll 
bring  in  five  of  his  friends.  We're  very  stu- 


A  student  tutor  assists  others  in  the  Student  Sup- 
port Services  Center. 

dent-oriented.  They're  in  there  all  the  time." 

The  fact  that  the  center,  located  in  the 
Angell  College  Center,  is  open  until  8  p.m. 
can't  hurt.  Students  find  walk-in  help  in 
math,  writing,  science,  "just  about  anything 
they're  struggling  with,"  Little  said.  "Some- 
times they  come  in  just  to  work  on  a  paper  or 
use  the  computers.  Sometimes  they  come  in 
just  to  talk,  to  unload." 

In  addition  to  academics,  the  center 
handles  all  services  needed  for  students  with 
disabilities. 

"There  are  more  than  500  students  who 
have  declared  themselves  as  disabled  and 
can  be  eligible  for  services.  We  see  a  core 
group  of  300  on  a  regular  basis,"  she  said. 

The  program  has  been  in  continual  opera- 
tion on  campus  since  1 978.  Funding  secured 
for  the  program  pays  the  salaries  of  staff  and 
buys  supplies  to  keep  the  staff  on  board  to 
run  the  program.  Little  said. 

"We  see  about  10  percent  of  the  student 
population,  but  we  know  there  are  many, 
many  more  students  out  there  who  haven't 
linked  up  with  our  services,"  she  said.  "We'd 
like  to  connect  with  them." 


Tracy 


Dr.  Ann  Tracy  to  Give 
'Last  Lecture'  Nov.  18 


English  Professor  Ann  Tracy  will  be  the 
featured  speaker  in  the  Honors  Students  As- 
sociation Last  Lecture 
Series  Tuesday,  Nov. 
18  at  7:30  p.m.  in 
Hawkins  Recital  Hall . 
Tracy,aSUNY  Dis- 
tinguished Teaching 
Professor  and  author 
of  such  books  as  What 
Do  Cowboys  Like? 
and  Higher  Ground: 
A  Memoir  of  Higgins 
Classical  Institute,  will  give  a  talk  entitled 
"What  I'm  Almost  Sure  I  know.  Maybe, 
Subject  to  Revision." 

Each  semester  one  or  two  Plattsburgh 
State  faculty  are  invited  to  address  the  ques- 
tion: "If  you  were  to  give  the  last  lecture  of 
your  career,  what  would  you  say?" 

Alumni  Awards 

( Continued  From  Page  1 ) 

torial  board  to  discuss  the  effects  the  pro- 
posed budget  cuts  would  have  on  Platts- 
burgh State.  Five  positive  editorials  con- 
cerning the  SUNY  budget  resulted  from  the 
February  meeting. 

As  part  of  the  advocacy  effort,  three  direct 
mailings  went  to  more  than  9,900  alumni 
who  reside  in  key  legislative  districts  (areas 
where  a  leader  of  the  legislature  resides)  in 
support  of  the  State  University  budget.  More 
than  4,400  parents  received  a  "Legislative 
Alert"  concerning  the  budget.  Resolutions 
supporting  full  restoration  of  the  SUNY  bud- 
get came  from  the  Plattsburgh  and  North 
Country  Chamber  of  Commerce,  the  Clinton 
County  Legislature,  Plattsburgh  City  Coun- 
cil, and  the  Plattsburgh  Press  Republican. 

The  majority  of  the  articles  in  the  special 
issue  of  Plattsburgh  Today  were  news  re- 
leases or  stories  about  the  unique  programs, 
faculty  and  students  at  Plattsbugh  State.  Sev- 
eral distinguished  alumni  were  also  high- 
lighted in  a  "Where  are  They"  section.  Five 
thousand  copies  of  the  newspaper  were 
printed  and  the  publication  has  received  many 
positive  reviews. 

The  awards  will  be  presented  at  the  Alumni 
Confederation's  annual  meeting  this  Satur- 
day evening  in  Binghamton.  Other  award 
winners,  besides  Plattsburgh  State,  were: 
SUNY  Binghamton  (Alumni  Events);  The 
College  of  Environmental  Science  and  For- 
estry (Communications);  and  Orange  County 
Community  College  (Alumni  Fund  Rais- 
ing). 


Cohen 's  Book  Examines  Cultural 
Blindspots  Leading  to  Racism 


Cohen 


Racism  is  get- 
ting in  the  way  of 
solving  our  real 
problems,  says 
Dr.  Mark  Cohen 
in  his  new  book, 
"Culture  of  Intol- 
erance: Chauvin- 
ism. Class  and 
Racism  in  the 
United  States." 

The  Plattsburgh  State  distinguished 
teaching  professor  of  anthropology  main- 
tains that  the  real  problems  "stem  from 
some  arbitrary  and  inappropriate  assump- 
tions of  American  culture. 

"There  are  no  races  and  never  have 
been,"  Cohen  said.  "A  black  and  a  white 
are  in  fact  likely  to  be  as  similar  to  one 
another  biologically  as  each  is  to  members 
of  'his  own'  group.  This  is  because  color 
accounts  for  only  six  or  so  pairs  of  genes 
out  of  20,000  pairs  of  genes  that  produce 
human  differences." 

Our  problems,  Cohen  says,  are  about 
culture. 

"Culture  is  more  than  song  and  dance;  it 
is  a  whole  set  of  unspoken  rules  that  govern 
our  thought  and  behavior  as  much  as  the 
grammar  of  language  governs  our  speech," 
he  said.  "Each  group  has  its  own  arbitrary 
culture  just  as  it  has  its  own  arbitrary  lan- 
guage. Learning  another  culture  is  hard, 
just  as  learning  another  language  is,  espe- 
cially if  one  is  an  adult.  Until  you  are 
exposed  to  another  culture  it  is  hard  to 
imagine  that  different  people  have  differ- 
ent cultures  — just  as  if  English  were  the 
only  language  we  knew,  it  would  seem  like 
the  only,  obvious,  natural  human  language." 


Cohen  maintains  our  inability  to  un- 
derstand these  cultural  differences  has 
three  results. 

"First,  we  don't  understand  what  other 
people  are  doing  and  why,  so  we  see  only 
primitive  failure,"  he  said.  "For  example, 
an  African  witch  doctor  is  actually  doing 
things  that  our  doctors  are  now  starting  to 
emulate  —  but  for  years  we  dismissed 
them  as  crackpots. 

"Second,  we  don' t  understand  how  im- 
portant cultural  barriers  are  to  perfor- 
mance in  our  own  culture  by  immigrants 
and/or  minority  groups,"  he  said. 

Cohen  said  that  society  presumes  these 
people  are  "ignorant  or  dumb  when  in  fact 
they  just  haven't  learned  our  arbitrary 
rules.  IQ  tests  are  an  obvious  example  of 
this.  They  aren't  about  logical  ability; 
they  are  about  knowing  our  logical  rules." 

The  third  result  is  that  we  have  no 
perspective  on  the  arbitrary  nature  of  our 
own  cultural  assumptions  that  generate 
our  problems. 

"American  perception  of  freedom,  of 
the  individual,  of  property,  profit,  law  and 
justice  are  arbitrary,"  Cohen  said.  "We 
have  some  blind  spots  obvious  to  people 
from  other  cultures  —  like  the  degree  to 
which  the  community,  not  the  individual 
conditions  both  success  and  failure.  Those 
blindspots  generate  the  economic  pres- 
sures that  get  translated  into  racism,  al- 
though race  is  the  wrong  target." 

Cohen  addressed  the  issues  he  raises  in 
his  book  at  a  presentation,  "Why  Every- 
one Needs  to  End  Racism"  Nov.  1 2  on  the 
eve  of  the  college's  Dialogues  fof  Diver- 
sity workshops. 


Dialogues  For  Diversity  Workshops  Today,  Friday 

The  President's  Advisory  Committee  on  Diversity  is  sponsoring  three  diver- 
sity workshops  today  and  tomorrow.  The  Dialogues  for  Diversity  workshops 
feature  Dr.  Trevor  Chandler,  assistant  vice  chancellor,  office  of  the  president  of 
the  University  of  California,  Oakland. 

The  first  of  the  three  sessions  which  will  be  held  at  the  Valcour  Conference 
Center  will  be  held  Thursday,  Nov.  1 3  from  8:30  to  1 1 :30  a.m.;  session  two  is  1 :30 
p.m.  to  4:30  p.m.;  session  three  is  Friday,  Nov.  14  from  8:30  to  1 1:30  a.m. 


[2] 


Arnold  Amell  '53,  College  Council  Member,  Elected  ACT  President 


Amell 


Arnold  Amell  of 
Scotia,  a  1953 
graduate  of  Pitts- 
burgh State  and  a 
member  of  the  Col- 
lege Council,  has 
been  elected  presi- 
dent of  the  Associa- 
tion  of  Council 
Members  and  Col- 
lege Trustees  of  the 
State  University  of  New  York  (ACT). 

Amell  is  a  retired  assistant  superintendent 
for  personnel  and  management  with  the 
Schenectady  City  School  District.  An  active 
supporter  of  Plattsburgh  State  and  the  alumni 
association  for  many  years,  he  is  a  past 
president  of  the  Alumni  Association  and 
conti  nues  to  serve  it' s  board  of  directors. .  He 
was  appointed  by  former  Governor  Mario 
Cuomo  to  the  Plattsburgh  State  College 
Council  in  1989. 

Amell  said  ACT  is  particularly  concerned 
about  the  new  SUNY  selection  criteria  for 
campus  presidents.  College  councils  are  now 
required  to  submit  the  names  of  the  three  top 
finalists  for  a  campus  presidency  to  the  SUNY 
Board  of  Trustees  who  will  then  make  the 
final  selection.  Amell  also  said  council  mem- 
bers are  disturbed  by  the  trustees'  demand 
requiring  the  hiring  of  an  outside  consultant 


to  assist  colleges  in  the  presidential  search 
process. 

ACT,  which  supports  the  campus  coun- 
cils in  their  efforts  to  contribute  to  the  suc- 
cess of  the  University,  is  an  advocate  for  the 
campuses  individually  and  collectively. 

Amell  will  also  attend  SUNY  trustees 
meeting  as  the  representative  of  ACT. 


He  is  not  the  first  Plattsburgh  State  Col- 
lege Council  member  to  lead  ACT.  Robert 
Garrow  '52,  current  chair  of  the  College 
Council,  is  a  past  president  of  the  statewide 
organization. 

Jacqueline  Walker  of  Plattsburgh,  also  a 
member  of  the  Plattsburgh  State  College 
Council,  sits  on  the  ACT  Board  of  Directors. 


President  Search  Process,  Residence  Hall  Fire 
Top  College  Council's  Nov.  20  Meeting  Agenda 


Changes  in  the  search  process  for  new 
SUNY  campus  presidents  and  the  response 
to  the  fire  in  Macdonough  Residence  Hall 
will  be  on  the  agenda  at  the  next  meeting  of 
the  Plattsburgh  State  College  Council  on 
Thursday,  Nov.  20,  at  4  p.m.  in  the  Confer- 
ence Room  of  Memorial  Hall. 

The  College  Council  will  discuss  changes 
in  the  selection  process  for  a  campus  presi- 
dent. SUNY  college  councils  are  now  re- 
quired to  submit  the  names  of  the  three  top 
finalists  for  a  campus  presidency  to  the 
SUNY  Board  of  Trustees  who  will  then  make 
the  final  selection.  They  are  also  required  to 
hire  an  outside  consultant  to  assist  colleges 
in  the  presidential  search  process. 

Council  members  will  also  hear  a  report 
on  the  status  of  the  early  morning  fire  Oct.  4 


Businesses  Look  to  Poland  For  New  Market 


Zofla  Schnitzer,  the  Polish 
Embassy  economic  attache' 
(left),  and  Andrzej  Laga- 
nowski,  Polish  commercial 
counselor,  spoke  to  approxi- 
mately 120  students  and 
business  leaders  from 
Northern  New  York,  Ver- 
mont and  Canada  who 
attended  the  Nov.  3  work- 
shop on  emerging  business 
and  trade  opportunities  in 
Poland.  The  workshop, 
which  was  sponsored  by  the 
School  of  Business  and  Eco- 
nomics, the  Institute  for  In- 
ternational Business  Education  Research  and  Training,  the  North  Country  World 
Trade  Council  and  the  Plattsburgh-North  Country  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
introduced  a  new  cooperative  effort  to  expand  business  efforts  at  the  same  time  in 
Poland  and  New  York  State.  The  Polish  officials  also  met  with  representatives 
from  the  Empire  State  Development,  New  York  State  Department  of  Labor, 
PARC,  Plattsburgh  City  Development  Office,  and  Bombardier  Corporation.  Due 
to  the  success  of  the  workshop,  the  trade  council  will  be  bringing  in  other  trade 
representatives  from  the  nine  major  emerging  world  markets* 


! 

T 

i 

that  destroyed  a  room  and  displaced  40  resi- 
dents of  Macdonough  Hall.  No  one  was 
seriously  injured  in  the  blaze.  An  outside 
contractor  is  renovating  the  second-story 
floor  of  the  residence  hall. 

On  the  agenda  as  well  with  be  a  review  of 
the  new  student  recruitment  publications  and 
a  walking  tour  of  the  renovations  to  the 
Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium. 

The  College  Council  will  also  act  on  three 
resolutions  commending  student  Walter 
Long  on  winning  the  1997  SUNY  AC  Indi- 
vidual Cross  Country  Championship,  the 
men's  cross  country  tream  on  winning  the 
SUNYAC  championship,  and  Scott  Slade 
on  being  named  Men's  and  Women's 
SUNYAC  Cross  Country  Coach  of  the  Year. 
The  meeting  is  open  to  the  public. 

High  School  Students 
Focus  Of  Summit  at 
Plattsburgh  State 

Plattsburgh  State  will  play  host  to  Clinton 
County's  Summit  for  Youth  this  weekend  as 
approximately  30  high  school  students  and 
45  adults,  including  parents  and  representa- 
tives of  schools,  non-profit  agencies  and 
governments,  gather  to  discuss  issues  affect- 
ing the  future  of  today's  youth. 

Bryan  Hartman,  director  of  service  learn- 
ing and  leadership  and  one  of  the  summit 
coordinators,  said  Clinton  County  needs  to 
address  issues  confronting  youths  daily. 

"Our  task  is  to  recruit  a  volunteer  of  men 
and  women,  community-based  organizations 
and  corporations,  to  provide  our  young 
people  with  the  fundamental  resources  that 
are  necessary  to  maximize  their  potential, 
live  the  American  dream,  and  give  back  to 
society  in  meaningful  ways,"  said  Hartman. 

Members  of  Omicron  Delta  Kappa  will 
play  host  to  the  youth  participants  through- 
out their  entire  stay  on  campus. 


Within  One  Year  After  Graduating  From  Plattsburgh 

More  Alumni  Pursuing  Advanced  Degrees 


More  and  more  Plattsburgh  State  alumni 
each  year  are  pursuing  advanced  degrees  im- 
mediately after  graduation  from  Plattsburgh 
.In  the  most  recent  survey  of  the  Class  of 
1996,  18.5  percent  of  those  responding  said 
they  were  furthering  their  education  full- 
time.  That's  in  comparison  to  15.2  percent 
f  or  the  Class  of  1995  a  year  ago  and  12.6 
percent  for  the  Class  of  1990. 


year  to  the  next.  Smallman  said  74  percent  of 
the  Class  of  1996  surveyed  were  employed 
on  a  full-time  basis  and  another  13.7  percent 
were  in  part-time  jobs.  Except  for  the  Classes 
of  1 992  and  1 993  when  the  rates  dipped  to  70 
percent,  the  percentage  of  recent  graduates 
continued  to  remain  around  75  percent. 


said  they  were  satisfied  with  their  coursework 
at  Plattsburgh  State,  and  alumni  believe  that 
their  internships,  cooperative  work  experi- 
ences, summer  and  part-time  jobs,  and  extra- 
curricular activities  during  college  played  a 
role  in  their  efforts  to  obtain  employment. 
"Many  employers  are  seeking  educated, 


well-rounded  individuals,"  said 
"Our    graduates  get  a  good  Solid    Smallman.  "When  it  gets  down  to  ex- 


Dr.  Ed  Smallman,  director  of  the  Ca-  foundation  here  and  then  are  able  tO  gO    Perience,  our  graduates  who  have  com- 


reer  Services  Center,  said  the  survey 
suggests  that  Plattsburgh  State  is  prepar- 
ing students  to  meet  the  necessary  quali- 
fications for  entry  to  graduate  school. 

"The  value  of  the  college  degree  is  not 
what  it  used  to  be  25  years  ago.  The  need  for 
advanced  degrees  for  entry  level  positions  is 
reflective  of  the  economy,"  said  Smallman. 
"Our  graduates  get  a  good  solid  foundation 
here  and  then  are  able  to  go  on  to  graduate 
schools  and  achieve  success." 

In  comparison,  the  percentage  of  alumni 
pursuing  advanced  degrees  on  a  part-time 
basis  one  year  out  of  college  continues  to 
decrease.  For  instance,  23.5  percent  of  the 
respondents  of  the  Class  of  1 99 1  were  taki  ng 
graduate  courses  on  a  part-time  basis  while 
the  number  of  alumni  from  the  Class  of  1 996 
has  decreased  to  16.1  percent. 

The  percentage  of  recent  graduates  going 
into  the  work  force  right  out  of  Plattsburgh 
State  continues  to  be  consistent  from  one 


on  to  graduate  schools  and  achieve 
success.  "       —  Dr.  Ed  Smallman,  Director 
Career  Services  Center 


Graduates  are  also  obtaining  competitive 
full-time  entry-level  salaries  averaging  be- 
tween $25,900  and  $29,800. 

"Entry-level  salaries  reflect  the  economy's 
continued  growth  and  there  are  employment 
opportunities  out  there,"  said  Smallman. 

"As  employers  do  more  hiring,  salaries 
need  to  be  more  competitive  to  lure  appli- 
cants their  way.  It's  the  old  supply  and  de- 
mand curve." 

That  supply  and  demand  in  the  economy 
still  continues  to  haunt  women  whose  sala- 
ries continue  to  lag  behind  those  of  their  male 
counterparts.  While  the  average  entry-level 
salary  for  men  is  $29,855,  the  average  salary 
for  women  amounts  to  $25,939. 

Eighty-five  percent  of  those  responding 


New  Entrance  Sign  Nears  Completion 


Construction  on  the  new  main  entrance  sign  to  Plattsburgh  State  at  the  intersection  of 
Draper  and  Broad  streets  continues  to  progress  smoothly  as  workers  attach  Lake 
Placid  Blue  Granite  to  the  concrete  wall.  When  completed  this  fall,  the  wall  will  bear 
the  college's  name  in  12-inch  high  lettering  and  a  36-inch  diameter  casting  of  the  logo 
made  of  bronze.  The  new  sign,  which  is  just  the  first  part  of  a  project  to  improve  the 
open  space  area  near  Ward  Hall,  will  be  illuminated  at  night. 

[4] 


pleted  internships  or  worked  during 
college  now  have  adiscriminating  fac- 
tor that  put  them  ahead  of  others." 

For  the  most  part  there  were  no 
major  differences  in  the  survey  results 
from  past  samplings  of  the  al  umni.  Smallman 
said,  "In  general,  these  results  demonstrate 
that  our  students  are  doing  well  and  each 
year  they  are  doing  a  little  bit  better  than  the 
year  before." 

He  said  he  was  pleased  with  the  continued 
high  percentage  of  alumni  responding  to  the 
survey  on  an  annual  basis  even  though  this 
was  the  lowest  response  rate  during  the  de- 
cade. "Ten  to  15  percent  return  is  considered 
good,  but  42  percent  is  a  phenomenally  high 
rate." 

Five  hundred  and  eighty-three  surveys 
were  received  from  1,388  alumni  of  the 
Class  of  1996  who  were  sent  the  question- 
naires. 


Correction 

The  names  of  the  two  project  coordi- 
nators for  two  grants  featured  in  the  last 
issue  of  Focus  were  inadvertently  left  out 
of  the  article. 

Judy  Charland,  project  director  and 
coordinator  of  the  secondary  education 
program,  will  oversee  a  $25,006  grant 
from  the  Bell  Atlantic  Foundation  to  pro- 
vide students  in  the  Center  for  Educa- 
tional Studies  and  Services  training  in 
technology  utilization,  especially  tele- 
communications, for  students  enrolled  in 
the  professional  semester  and  in  student 
teaching.  The  North  Country  Teacher 
Resource  Center  is  under  contract  to  pro- 
vide the  training. 

Wayne  Miller,  Special  Collections  li- 
brarian, is  the  project  coordinator  for  a 
$1,839  grant  from  the  New  York  State 
Education  Department,  to  improve  and 
monitor  the  environmental  conditions  of 
Feinberg  Library's  archives. 


Dr.  Allen  S.  Everest,  Former  History  Department  Chair,  Dead  at  84 


Everest 


Dr.  Allen  S. 
Everest,  professor 
emeritus  and 
former  chair  of  the 
history  department 
at  Plattsburgh  State, 
died  Monday,  Nov. 
3,  1997,  at  the  age 
of  84. 

Everest  is  re- 
garded as  one  of  the 
premier  historians  of  his  generation  and  an 
authority  on  the  history  of  Northern  New 
York. 

Born  Oct.  9,  1913  in  South  Shaftsbury, 
Vt.,  Everest  grew  up  in  New  Haven,  Vt.  and 
attended  Beeman  Academy. 

He  received  a  bachelor's  degree  from  the 
University  of  Vermont  in  1 936  and  a  master' s 
from  Teachers  College  at  Columbia  Univer- 
sity in  1 937.  After  enlisting  in  the  U.S.  Army 
Air  Force  during  World  War  II,  Everest 
earned  his  doctorate  from  Columbia  Univer- 
sity in  1948. 

Everest  joined  the  faculty  of  Plattsburgh 
State  University  of  New  York  in  September 

'Great  American 
Smokeout '  Returns 
To  Campus  Nov.  20 

The  Wellness  Center  will  be  sponsoring 
Plattsburgh  State's  "Great  American 
Smokeout,"  Thursday,  Nov.  20. 

Faculty,  staff  and  students  can  find  pledge 
cards  around  campus  at  the  Wellness  Center, 
College  Center  Desk,  Counseling  Center, 
Student  Health  Center,  dining  halls,  and  the 
Personnel  Office  in  the  Kehoe  Administra- 
tion Building. 

If  you're  a  smoker,  take  the  pledge  and 
quit  for  the  day.  If  you  don't  smoke,  support 
a  friend  who  is  trying  to  quit. 


Advocates  of  the  campaign  say: 

•  More  than  400,000  deaths  in  the 
U.S.  each  year  are  due  to  smoking- 
related  illnesses. 

•  Quitting  smoking  decreases  the 
risk  of  lung  cancer,  heart  disease, 
stroke,  lung  diseases,  and  other  can- 
cers. 

•  Smoking  harms  not  only  the 
smoker,  but  others  who  breathe  the 
second-hand  smoke. 


1947.  He  taught  courses  in  history  about 
New  York  State,  the  North  Country,  Colo- 
nial times  and  the  American  Revolution,  as 
well  as  introductory  courses  during  his  more 
than  35  years  as  a  teacher  at  the  College. 

He  chaired  the  committee  that  produced 
the  first  Faculty  Senate  by-laws  from  1965 
to  1 967  and  was  elected  the  first  chair  of  the 
Faculty  Senate,  from  1967  to  1969. 

He  chaired  the  History  Department  from 
1971  to  1974  and  was  a  founding  member 
of  the  Special  Collections  unit  in  Feinberg 
Library.  He  retired  in  July  1983. 

During  his  tenure  at  Plattsburgh  State  and 
even  after  his  retirement,  Everest  authored 
many  articles,  books  and  publications  about 
Northern  New  York. 

Horace  Judson,  president  of  Plattsburgh 
State,  said,  "We  are  saddened  to  hear  of  the 
death  of  Professor  Everest.  While  I  did  not 
know  him  personally,  V  ve  learned  that  from 
the  day  he  arrived  on  this  campus  in  Septem- 
ber 1947  until  his  retirement  in  1983,  he  was 
a  steadfast  proponent  of  the  preservation  of 
our  heritage.  He  was  one  of  the  foremost 
authorities  on  the  history  of  Northern  New 


York  and  was  one  of  the  original  founders  of 
our  Special  Collections  in  Feinberg  Library. 
He  will  be  sadly  missed." 

John  Myers,  professor  of  history  and  a 
colleague  of  Everest  for  many  years,  said  hi  s 
death  is  a  loss  to  the  community. 

"American  History  and  the  North  Coun- 
try will  both  miss  Allen  Everest  who  un- 
doubtedly knew  more  about  the  history  of 
this  region  than  any  other  individual.  His 
breadth  of  research  covered  subjects  from 
the  War  of  1 8 1 2  to  prohibition  in  the  1 920s. 
He  was  always  willing  to  provide  informa- 
tion to  researchers  wanting  to  know  about 
the  North  Country  and  to  local  organizations 
who  wanted  to  hear  about  the  research  he  had 
completed,"  said  Myers. 

"The  History  Department,  for  which  he 
served  as  chair  for  a  number  years,  will  miss 
him  and  the  Faculty  Senate,  for  which  he 
served  as  the  original  chair,  will  long  be 
grateful  for  his  services." 

Everest  was  a  founding  member  of  the 
Clinton  County  Historical  Museum  and 
served  on  its  broad  for  a  number  of  years. 


Shipman  Tourney  Raises  $3,000  For  Scholarship 


The  sixth  annua!  Curtis  E.  Shipman  Memorial  Golf  Tournament,  held  in  September, 
added  $3,000  to  the  Shipman  Scholarship  Endowment  Fund.  Chaired  by  (1.  to  r.)  Gil 
Burnell  '55,  Dick  Conners,  and  Jim  Andre,  the  tournament  attracted  nearly  150 
professional  and  amateur  golfers.  During  the  past  six  years,  the  Shipman  Tourna- 
ment has  earned  nearly  $19,000  for  the  endowment  This  major  scholarhip,  which 
covers  full  tuition  and  fees,  is  awarded  to  an  outstanding  student  in  the  School  of 
Business  and  Economics  in  memory  of  the  late  president  of  the  Plattsburgh  College 
Foundation  and  former  president  of  Keeseville  National  Bank  (now  Evergreen 
Bank).  The  endowment  has  also  received  major  support  from  that  bank. 


[5] 


Chilean  Trip  Emphasizes  Global  Librarianship 


Leonard 


Feinberg  Library 
Patron  Services  Librar- 
ian Terry  Leonard  now 
wears  another  hat:  Chil- 
ean librarian  ambassa- 
dor. 

Leonard  traveled  to 
Chile  in  July  to  assist 
librarians  there  with  the 
implementation  of  the 
same  circulation  system  found  at  Feinberg. 
Her  trip  was  in  response  to  a  1 995  visit  made 
by  five  Chilean  librarians  to  Feinberg  to 
witness  the  integrated  library  system  here. 

"I  worked  with  a  group  of  librarians  who 
are  working  on  a  project  to  get  64  libraries  up 
and  running  with  this  new  system,"  Leonard 
said.  "They're  training  to  help  these  libraries 
set  up." 

In  addition,  Leonard  participated  in  a  three- 
day  workshop  for  librarians  from  other  Chil- 
ean universities.  Although  she  speaks  no 


Spanish,  Leonard  said  she  managed  to  un- 
derstand and  be  understood  in  what  could 
have  been  an  intimidating  setting. 

"It  was  a  challenge,"  said.  "We  were 
taking  a  library  system  developed  in  Montreal 
with  a  program  that  was  written  in  French 
and  having  it  installed  in  Santiago.  They 
want  the  system  limited  to  only  those  stu- 
dents using  the  material  in  each  library, 
unlike  our  philosophy,  which  is  to  make  as 
much  information  available  as  possible  to 
anyone  who  needs  it." 

Even  with  the  language  difference, 
Leonard  was  able  to  retrieve  information 
from  Plattsburgh  on  one  computer  and  send 
it  back  to  a  second  computer  in  Chile  to  show 
the  librarians  what  they  were  capable  of 
doing  on  the  new  system.  The  Chileans  could 
then  call  their  computer  technicians  in  to 
address  how  to  implement  the  features. 

"It  was  amazing,"  Leonard  said.  "I  was  in 
a  Spanish-speaking  country  using  my  En- 


Students  Collect  Food  for  Hunger  Awareness  Day 


Nine  members  of  the  Stu- 
dent Dietetic  Association 
at  Plattsburgh  State  sort 
food  they  collected  re- 
cently during  the  group's 
fourth  annual  Hunger 
Awareness  Day.  Four- 
teen students  collected 
more  than  500  cans  and 
350  boxes  of  food  items 
from  their  friends  and 
neighbors  in  the  City  of 
Plattsburgh.  The  food 
was  given  to  the  Salva- 
tion Army.  Shown  with 
the  food  are  (clockwise 
from  lower  left):  Sandra 
Langtry,  Nadeeka 
Pathirana,  Sara  Dieck, 
Jacquelyn  Hoffman, 
Denise  Shorkey,  Kristin 
Napora,  Tricia  Stewart, 
Dr.  Ena  Joseph,  and 
Michelle  Stark.  Missing 
from  the  photo,  but  who 
collected  food,  are:  Erin 
Baughn,  Scott  Holmes, 
Renee  Morrill,  Maria 
Skopeiitis,  Erin  Wheeler 
and  Linda  Spencer. 


glish  to  teach  them  a  French-originated  pro- 
gram. Everything  was  done  on-line." 

Leonard  also  spent  four  days  with  the 
Plattsburgh  State  Latin  American  Southern 
Cone  Program  orientation  going  on  at  the 
same  time  with  Plattsburgh  State's  Dr.  Wil- 
liam Culver,  the  program  director,  and 
Carmen  Madariaga  Culver,  the  assistant  di- 
rector. 

After  the  Southern  Cone  orientation,  at- 
tended by  Plattsburgh  State  Latin  American 
studies  major  James  Gyle,  Leonard  took  part 
in  a  conference  on  library  automation  for 
directors  and  librarians  across  Chile. 

The  trip  was  paid  for  in  part  by  the  South- 
ern Cone  program  and  the  University  of 
Chile.  Leonard  made  a  presentation  at 
Feinberg  on  her  experiences  in  Chile  and 
will  give  another  presentation,  "Global 
Librarianship:  A  Chilean  Experience,"  Nov  . 
1 8  at  a  Latin  American  Studies  lunch  collo- 
quia  from  12  to  1  p.m.  in  Hawkins  107. 

County  Arts  Fund-Raiser 
Features  Campus  Artists 

Four  Plattsburgh  State  faculty  have  con- 
tributed works  of  art  to  the  Council  on  the 
Arts  for  Clinton  County  fund-raiser  "In  Your 
Wildest  Dreams." 

'"In  Your  Wildest  Dreams'  is  the  major 
fund-raising  event  for  the  Council  on  the 
Arts,"  said  Janice  Marchut  Conrad,  lecturer 
in  biological  sciences  on  the  event's  public- 
ity committee.  "Outside  of  the  Plattsburgh 
State  museum  and  campus,  the  Arts  Council 
has  the  largest  community  space  dedicated 
to  the  display  of  art  in  our  community." 

The  event  features  a  silent  auction  that 
features  many  works  of  art,  crafts,  gift  cer- 
tificates. Donating  works  from  the  college 
are  art  faculty  members  Don  Osborn,  Robin 
Brown,  William  Crosby  and  Susan  Lezon. 

"The  Council  helps  to  support,  through 
state  decentralization  grants,  Champlain 
Valley  Orchestral  Society,  Oratory  Society, 
North  Country  Ballet,  artists  in  residence 
and  a  high-school  juried  art  show,  to  name  a 
few,"  said  Marchut  Conrad.  "The  council 
also  sponsors  workshops  for  children  as  well 
as  adults,  and  it  has  monthly  gallery  exhibits 
at  its  Bridge  Street  location." 

"In  Your  Wildest  Dreams"  will  be  held 
Saturday,  Nov.  22  at  7  p.m.  at  the  Valcour 
Educational  Conference  Center.  Cost  is  $25 
per  person  and  includes  complimentary  hors 
d'oeuvres.  Bids  will  be  opened  beginning  at 
9  p.m. 


[6! 


eft 


SPOTLIGHT 


Dr.  Richard  Bernardi 
Dr.  William  Kelting 
Dr.  James  Dawson 
Mary  Dossin 
Marcia  Gottschall 
Dr.Mary  Roden-Tice 
Dr.  Roger  Sandwick 


Drs.  Richard  Bernardi 
Kelting,  associate  profes- 
sors of  accounting,  have 
had  an  article,  "A  Career 
in  Public  Accounting:  A 
Comparison  of  Four  Year 
and  Transfer  Students"  ac- 
cepted for  publication  in 
The  Accounting  Educa- 


and  William 


Bernardi 


tor 's  Journal,  due  for  pub- 
lication  this  month. 

Dr.  James  Dawson,  Distin- 
guished Service  Professor  with  the 
Center  for  Earth  and  Environmental 
Science  and  member  of  the  New 
York  State  Board  of  Regents,  was 
elected  president  of  the  National  As- 
sociation of  State  Boards  of  Educa- 
tion at  the  Association' s  annual  con- 
ference in  Kiawah  Island,  S.C. 
Dawson's  term  begins  Jan.  1  and 
runs  through  1998.  He  currently  serves  as 
chair  of  the  New  York  State  Regent's  Cul- 
tural Education  Committee  and  the  Audit 
Subcommittee.  Vice-chair  of  the  Facilities 
and  Technology  Subcommittee,  Dawson  is 


also  a  member  of  the  Administration,  Legis- 
lation and  Litigation  Committee;  Higher 
and  Professional  Education  Committee;  the 
Professional  Practices  Committee;  and  the 
Vocational  Educational  Services  For  Indi- 
viduals with  Disabilities  committee. 

Mary  Dossin  and  Marcia  Gottschall, 
writing  specialists  in  the  Claude  J.  Clark 
Learning  Center  and  Student  Support  Ser- 
vices respectively,  gave  a  featured  presenta- 
tion at  the  Third  International  Writing  Cen- 
ters Conference  in  Park  City,  Utah.  Entitled 
"High-Success Tutoring  with  High-Risk  Stu- 


Kelting 


Dawson 


Gottschall 


Roden-Tice 


Sandw 


dents,"  the  paper  detailed  their  work  in  train- 
ing peer  writing  tutors  to  work  with  popula- 
tions of  students  who  are  traditionally  at  high 
risk  of  failure  and  attrition:  physically  chal- 
lenged and  learning  disabled,  English  as  a 


Second  Language,  and  minority  students, 
among  others.  Dossin  and  Gottschall  claimed 
that  the  connection  to  a  caring  and  compe- 
tent person  that  the  writing  center  offers  can 
be  crucial  to  the  success  of  these  students. 
They  also  said  that  tutors  need  to  follow 
certain  guidelines,  however,  in  order  to  be 
effective  without  taking  over  the  task. 

Dr.  Mary  Roden-Tice,  assistant  profes- 
sor of  geology  in  the  Center  for  Earth  and 
Environmental  Science,  was  co-author  of  a 
paper  entitled,  "Apatite  fission-track  dating 
of  the  Cowichan  fold  and  thrust  system, 
I  southern  Vancouver  Is- 
\        land,  British  Columbia," 
published  in  the  Canadian 
I  Journal  of  Earth  Sciences, 

f  <  Wft  v.  34,  p.  635-645,  in  May 
4  ^»  1997.  Roden-Tice  also 
published  a  laboratory  ex- 
ercise entitled  "Mineral 
Separation  and  Prov- 
enance Lab  Exercise"  in 
Teaching  Mineralogy ,  acollection  of 
exercises,  activities  and  methods  for 
teaching  mineralogy,  published  by 
the  Mi  neralogical  Society  of  America 
and  the  National  Science  Founda- 
tion, September  1997. 

Dr.  Roger  Sandwick,  professor  of 
chemistry,  and  Plattsburgh  State 
alumna  Monica  Puskas  '96,  made  a 
presentation  at  the  northeast  region 
meeting  of  the  American  Chemical  Society 
i  n  Saratoga  Springs  in  June  on  "Spontaneous 
Degradation  of  5-Phosphribosy  1-1-  £ 
pyrophosphate  in  the  Absence  and  f 
Presence  of  Mg2+."  4j 


Dossin 


Campus  Life  Staff  Leads  Annual  Association  Meeting 


Dean  of  Students 
William  Laundry, 
Stephen  Matthews, 
judicial  coordinator, 
Cori  Jackson  Matt- 
hews, wellness  coor- 
dinator, and  Mary 
Ellen  Gillespie 
Greek  affairs  coordi- 
nator, attended  the 
College  Student  Personnel  Association  annual  conference  at 
Silver  Bay  Oct.  4-7. 

Steve  Matthews  is  the  organization' s  vice  president  for  pro- 
fessional development  and  led  a  roundtable  discussion  at  the 
conference  on  judicial  affairs;  Gillespie  was  outgoing  regional 
coordinator  for  the  Association  in  the  North  Country.  She  led  a 


Laundry 


Matthews 


roundtable  discussion 
at  the  conference  on 
Greek  Affairs. 

Jackson  Matt- 
hews was  conference 
co-chair  for  profes- 
sional development 
and  will  hold  the  posi- 
tion again  at  next 
year's  conference. 
Joining  Plattsburgh  State  staff  were  graduate  students  Dan 
Bennett,  Katrina  Day,  Jen  Jadwin,  Marc  Jennette,  Curtis 
Thompson,  Tim  Loughan  and  Marcia  Dumesnil,  where 
Bennett  and  Day  took  second  place  in  the  graduate  student  case 
study  challenge. 


Jackson  Matthews 


Gillespie 


[7] 


Cardinal  Sports 


Three  Cardinals  Receive  All-State  Honors 

Women's  Soccer  Team  Ends  Season 

The  individuals  honors  continued  to  roll  in  for  members  of  the 
Plattsburgh  State  women's  soccer  team  as  three  Cardinals  received  All- 
State  honors  last  week.  Jamie  Retersdorf  of  Gloversville,  Shanna 
Saunders  of  Rochester,  and  Keri  Honors  of  Kirkville,  were  selected  to 
the  New  York  State  Women's  Collegiate  Athletic  Association 
(NYSWCAA)  1997  All-State  Soccer  team. 

The  women's  soccer  team,  making  their  third  Eastern  Collegiate 
Athletic  Conference  appearance  in  five  years,  defeated  Skidmore  3-1 
Nov.  5  in  the  opening  round  of  the  EC  AC  Division  III  Women' s  Soccer 
Tournament  with  two  goals  by  Karen  Perotta  of  Mahopac  and  one  by  Jill 
Hubright  of  Williams.  Erin  Shaw  of  Rochester  made  one  saves  in  goal 
in  the  Cardinal  victory.  Shanna  Saunders  of  Rochester,  registered  two 
assists  in  the  game,  raising  her  season  total  to  10  assists,  a  new 
Plattsburgh  State  single  season  record.  Three  days  later  the  team  was 
unable  to  overcome  a  early  second  half  goal  by  Brockport,  falling  0-1 
to  the  Golden  Eagles  in  semifinal  action.  The  EC  AC  tournament  marked 
the  eighth  straight  post-season  showing  for  Plattsburgh  and  the  final 
collegiate  game  for  senior  Carrie  Rose  of  Waddington.  Rose,  a 
midfielder,  finished  the  season  with  two  goals  and  three  assists. 

Men's  Cross  Country  Team  Solid 
At  ECAC  Championships 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men' s  cross  country  team  gave  a  solid  showing 
at  the  ECAC  Track  and  Field  Championships  this  weekend,  finishing 
fifth  out  of  45  teams.  Walter  Long  of  Smithtown,  continued  his  out- 
standing season  with  a  5th  place  finish,  covering  the  course  in  a  time  of 
25:51.  Corey  Davidson  of  Cadyville,  was  the  second  finisher  for  the 
Cardinals,  placing  30th  in  a  time  of  26:55  while  Matt  LoPiccolo  of 
Norwich,  took  33rd  in  27:01. 

The  Cardinal  men  will  travel  to  Saratoga  this  weekend  to  participate 
in  the  NCAA  Regionals. 

Six  Qualify  For  SUNYACs  as 
Women,  Men  Swim  Past  St.  Rose 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  and  men's  swim  teams  kicked  off 
their  dual  meet  season  Nov.  8  with  wins  over  St.  Rose  in  which  the 
Cardinals  qualified  six  swimmers  for  the  State  University  of  New  York 
Athletic  Conference  (SUNYAC) .  Three  swimmers,  Beth  Heybyrne  of 
West  Islip,  Sue  Starr  of  Avon,  and  Jill  Andreeff  of  Hamburg,  had  two 
first  place  finishes  a  piece  while  Ann  White  of  Rome,  and  Holly  Burge 
of  Elmira,  each  won  one  event  at  the  women  out  swam  St.  Rose  55-40 

The  men  had  a  convincing  44-1 1  win  in  which  Keith  Kazmer  of 
Schenectady  led  the  charge  for  the  Cardinals,  winning  the  100m  fly  and 
100m  back  while  placing  third  in  the  200m  IM.  Kazmer's  time  in  the 
1 00  fly  (59.79)  was  good  enough  to  qualify  him  for  the  SUNYAC  men' s 
swimming  championships.  Another  major  contributor  to  the  Platts- 
burgh win  was  Mike  Fischetti  of  Honeoye  Falls,  who  finished  with 
victories  in  the  100m  free  and  500m  free. 

The  Cardinals  will  be  idle  the  next  two  weeks  while  they  train  forthe 
Potsdam  State  Invitational  to  be  held  on  Nov.  21-22 


Cardinal  Men's  Soccer  to 
Host  ECAC  Tournament 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men's  soccer  team  earned  the  top 
seed  in  the  1997  ECAC  Tournament  and  will  host  the  four- 
team  tournament  this  weekend  (Nov.  15  and  16)  at  the  Field 
House.  On  Saturday,  Plattsburgh,  the  defending  ECAC 
Champions,  will  host  St  Lawrence  in  the  first  semifinal  game 
at  1 1  a.m.,  and  Geneseo  will  take  on  R.LT.  in  the  2  p.m.  game. 
The  final  to  be  played  on  Sunday  at  1  p.m.  Despite  having  a  15- 
2-0  overall  record  including  10  wins  by  shutout,  the  Cardinals 
did  not  receive  a  bid  to  the  1997  National  Collegiate  Athletic 
Association  Division  HI  Men's  Soccer  Tournament.. 

Cardinal  Women  Take  Second 
At  ECAC  Championships 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women' s  cross  country  team  gave  an  outstand- 
ing performance  at  the  ECAC  Track  and  Field  Championships  in 
Westfield,  MA  Nov.  7  by  placing  four  runners  in  the  top  20  and  finishing 
second  out  of  49  teams  to  record  their  best  showing  in  school  history. 
Chrissey  Torrence  of  Fairport,  was  the  first  Cardinal  runner  to  cross  the 
finish  line,  completing  the  course  in  19:32  to  finish  1 5th  overall.  Amy 
NuttofChamplain,  followed  Torrence  placing  16th  in  19:32,  while  K.T. 
Vanboden  of  Cleveland,  finished  17th  (19:33)  and  Cara  Cameron  of 
Delmar,  took  18th  (19:36). 

The  women's  cross  country  team  will  be  back  in  action  this  weekend 
as  they  compete  in  the  NCAA  Regionals  Saturday,  Nov.  1 5  in  Saratoga. 

Hockey  Team  Scores  1 7  Goals  in  Two  Games 

Cardinals  Wins  First  Two  in  SUNYAC 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men's  ice  hockey  team  opened  their  SUNYAC 
season  with  a  weekend  sweep  of  Buffalo  State  and  Fredonia. 
On  Friday,  the  Cardinals  scored  eight  goals  in  the  third  period  to  trounce 
Buffalo  State  13-1.  Ten  different  players  scored  goals  for  Plattsburgh 
while  Steve  Moffat  of  Hatboro,  PA,  Bryan  Murray  of  Barry '  s  Bay,  Ont., 
and  Derrick  Shaw  of  Scottsdale,  AZ,  all  had  two  goals  each.  Brad 
Erbsland  of  Rye  Brook  made  20  saves  while  Dave  Martin  of  Elizabeth, 
NJ,  stopped  all  four  shots  he  faced  in  the  win. 

Saturday,  Plattsburgh  survived  a  third-period  scare  by  Fredonia  to 
win  their  second  SUNYAC  game  4-2.  Eric  Weidenbach  of  Clarkston, 
MI,  scored  first  with  assist  by  Trevor  Cameron  of  Massena,  and  Jeff 
Paluseo  of  Plymouth,  MA,  at  18: 10  of  the  first  period.  Second  period 
goals  by  Tracey  Belanger  of  Merrimack,  NH,  and  Eric  Silverman  of 
Nyack  gave  the  Cardinals  a  3-0  advantage  going  into  the  final  stanza.  In 
the  third  period,  Plattsburgh  was  able  to  withstand  Fredonia' s  comeback 
effort  and  added  an  empty  net  goal  by  Evan  Sylvester  of  Hanson,  MA, 
to  post  the  win.  With  two  goals  and  two  assists  over  the  weekend. 

The  Cardinals  continue  their  SUNYAC  home  schedule  this  weekend 
as  they  host  conference  opponents  Brockport  on  Friday  and  Geneseo  on 
Saturday  both  games  beginning  at  7  p.m. 


 focus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 

Thursday,  Nov.  13  -  Wednesday,  Dec.  3 

Unless  otherwise  noted,  all  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public. 

NOTES: 

The  next  Bus  to  Montreal  in  on  Saturday,  November  15,  9  a.m.  -  5:30  p.m.,  sponsored  by  the  Office  of  Campus  Life.  Tickets:  $10  round  trip,  on  sale 
at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  The  bus  brings  you  to  Dorchester  Square.  Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

Public  Skating  will  be  held  at  the  Plattsburgh  State  Field  House  on  November  15,16, 22,  23,  29, 30,  from  1 :30-2:45  p.m.  Admission  is  $2  for  the  public 
and  $1  for  Plattsburgh  State  Students  with  ID.  Skate  Rentals  available  at  the  same  rates. 

Recreational  Skating  for  Plattsburgh  State  Faculty  and  Staff  will  be  held  on  November  13,  18, 20, 25,  and  December  2, 4, 9. 11,  16, 18,  from  12-1  p.m., 
no  charge.  For  further  information  call  4062. 

Applications  for  the  1998-99  Resident  Assistant  positions  are  due  in  to  the  office  of  the  Dean  of  Students  by  Friday,  De.  5  at  4:30  p.m  For  further 
information  contact  Cheryl  Hogle  or  Aaron  Bochniak  at  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students.  


Thursday,  Nov.  13 

1 1:30  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  World  Week  presents  International  Food  Festival  —  come 
sample  foods  from  Around  the  World.  Sponsored  by  Multicultural  Affairs.  Angell 
Center  Lobby. 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Priscilla  Hammond,  Platts- 
burgh Alum  and  owner  of  Directions  North  Photography,  speaking  on  "What  Price 
Liberty."  Sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies  Program  with  assistance  from  CAS. 
Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  the  Student  Health  Center  Staff 
speaking  on  ''Smoking  Cessation."  Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Caribbean  weekly  meeting  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
5:30  p.m.  —  World  Week  presents  "Show  and  Tell"  performed  by  Club  Caribbean 
and  sponsored  by  Multicultural  Affairs.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

6  p.m.  —  "Soul'd  Out  II,"  to  benefit  Pittsburgh's  Child  Abuse  Prevention  program, 
sponsored  by  Sigrna  Delta  Tau  Sorority  and  the  School  of  Business  and  Economics. 
Tickets:  $3  general  and  $1  children  under  12,  on  sale  at  the  door.  Angell  Center 
Warren  Ballrooms. 

8  p.m.  —  Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Department  presents  Steel  Magnolias,  featuring 
an  all-college  cast.  Tickets:  $1  SA  Members,  $5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8  general 
admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts 
Building. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting.,  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Friday,  Nov.  14 

3  p.m.  —  World  Week  presents  Dr.  Joseph  speaking  on  "Life  in  India,"  sponsored  by 
Multicultural  Affairs.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

4  p.m.  —  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

4  p.m.  —  The  SA  Activities  Coordination  Board  presents  '  Zap  Attack."  Angell 
Center  Flynt  Commons. 

4:30-6  p.m.  —  AKEBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

6  p.m.  -  lntervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh 
Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Men's  Ice  Hockey  vs.  SUNY  Brockport.  Field  House. 

8  p.m.  -  Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Department  presents  Steel  Magnolias,  featuring  an 
all-college  cast  Tickets:  $1  SA  Members,  $5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8  general 
admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Haitman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts 
Building. 

9  p.m.  —  Open  Mic  Program  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie  and  sponsored  by  Campus 
Life.  Java  Jo's,  Angell  Center. 

Saturday,  Nov.  15 

9  a.m. -3:30  p.m.  —  The  SA  Student  Services  Board  sponsors  a  Defensive  Driving 
Course.  Cost:  $10  SA  Members,  $13  faculty /staff,  payable  at  the  SA  Office.  Yokurn 
CL  207. 

9  a.  m.-5 :30  p.m.  —  Bus  to  Montreal  sponsored  by  the  Office  of  Campus  Life.  Tickets: 
$  1 0  round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center, 
Rugar  Street  pull-off. 

1 1  a.m.  —  Men's  ECAC  Soccer  Semifinal  Game,  Plattsburgh  vs.  SLU,  Field  House. 
1  p.m.  —  Men's  ECAC  Soccer  Semifinal  Game,  Geneseo  State  vs.  R.I.T.  Field 
House. 

1  p.m.  —  Zeta  Rho  chapter  of  Alpha  Sigma  Lambda  Adult  Honor  Society  Induction 


Ceremony.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Men's  Ice  Hockey  vs.  SUNY  Geneseo.  Field  House. 

8  p.m.  —  Plattsburgh  State  Theatre  Department  presents  Steel  Magnolias,  featuring 
an  all-college  cast.  Tickets:  $1  SA  Members,  $5  faculty/staff/seniors,  $8  general 
admission,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts 
Building. 

Sunday,  Nov.  16 

2  p.m.  —  Men's  ECAC  Championship  Game.  Field  House. 

3-4:30  p.m.  —  "Discover  "  Protestant  Campus  Ministry  discussion  group.  Angell 

Center  Meeting  Room  4. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents  Men  in  Black 
sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets  $  1  S  A  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale 
at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

Monday,  Nov.  17 

6-7:30  p.m.  —  Exit  Interviews  sponsored  by  the  Financial  Aid  Office.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  College  Chorale/Cardinal  Singers  Performance,  sponsored  by  the  Campus 
Arts  Council.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

8  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Tuesday,  Nov.  18 

1 1  a.m.-l  p.m.  -  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus  employees. 
EAP  Office,  Kehoe410. 

1 1 :30a.m.- 1  p.m.  —  PSU  Chapter  of  United  University  Professions,  Executive  Board 
Meeting,  open  to  campus.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  6. 

12:15-1:15  p.m.  — Exit  Interviews  sponsored  by  the  Financial  Aid  Office.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

12.15p.m.  —  Br*w*Bag  Recital  sponsored  by  the  Music  Department.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

12: 15  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Ed  Engelbride  speaking  on 
"Wellness:  An  International  Perspective,"  sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

4: 15  p.m.  —  Faculty  Senate  Meeting.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
5-6:30  p.m.  —  Quantity  Foods  Dinner:  "Continental  Cuisine  "  Tickets;  $8  SA/ 
Faculty/Seniors,  $  1 0  general  public,  on  sale  at  the  door.  Reservations  required  —  call 
564-2216.  Sibley  Hall  Cafe. 

7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 
Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  2. 
7:30  p.m.  — The  Last  Lecture  Series  presents  Dr.  Ann  Tracy,  Distinguished  Teaching 
Professor,  speaking  on  "What  I'm  Almost  Sure  I  Know,  Maybe,  Subject  To 
Revision."  Sponsored  by  the  Honor's  Students  Association.  Hawkins  Hall  Recital 
Hall. 


8: 15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  7. 

Wednesday,  Nov.  19 

1 1:30  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  National  Student  Exchange  information  table,  sponsored  by 
International  Programs.  Angell  Center  Lobby. 

3  p.m.  —  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room  232. 
5  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7-8:30  p.m.  —  Exit  Interviews  sponsored  by  the  Financial  Aid  Office.  Angell  Center 
Pittsburgh  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  LGB  A  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Chamber  Ensembles  Performance,  sponsored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council. 
Angell  Center  Ballrooms. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
Thursday,  Nov.  20 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  Thanksgiving  Buffet  sponsored  by  Marriott.  Reservations  not 
required,  cost  to  be  announced.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Elaine  McCrate,  UVM, 
speaking  on  "Welfare  and  Women's  Earnings,"  sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies 
Program  with  assistance  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Pittsburgh  Room. 
2:45-4  p.m.  —  Global  Issues  Update  presents  Dr.  Hiroshi  Itoh,  Political  Science 
leading  a  discussion  on  "Asia:  Old  and  New."  Sponsored  by  the  Center  for  Interna- 
tional Programs  and  the  Dept.  of  Political  Science.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Carol  Shuttleworth  speaking 
on  "Understanding  Eating  Disorders."  Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Caribbean  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Fall  Dance  Production  presented  by  the  JEDI  Dance  Production  Co,  an  S  A 
Student  Organization.  Tickets:  $2  S A/faculty/staff,  $3  public,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Sibley  Hall  Cafetorium. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting.,  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Forum  on  Womyn's  Body  Image  sponsored  by  CWC.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

9  p.m.  —  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Friday,  Nov.  21 

4  p.m.  —  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

4  p.m.  —  Omicron  Delta  Kappa  meeting  of  the  Membership,  open  to  members  only. 
Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

4:30-6  p.m.  —  AKEBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

6  p.m.  —  Men's  Basketball  hosts  the  Cardinal  Classic  (Teikyo  Post  vs.  Potsdam 
State.)  Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium. 

6  p.m.  —  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Platts- 
burgh Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Men's  Basketball  hosts  the  Cardinal  Classic  (Plattsburgh  State  vs.  S. 
Vermont.)  Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium. 

8  p.m.  —  Symphonic  Band  Performance  sponsored  by  the  Campus  Arts  Council. 
Hartman  Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

8  p.m.  —  Fall  Dance  Production  presented  by  the  JEDI  Dance  Production  Co,  an  S  A 
Student  Organization.  Tickets:  $2  SA/faculty/staff,  $3  public,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Sibley  Hall  Cafetorium. 

Saturday,  Nov.  22 

8  a.m. -5  p.m.  —  SA  Leadership  Conference,  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association. 
Agenda  of  Conference  Programs  to  follow.  Angell  College  Center. 
I  p.m.  —  Men's  Basketball  hosts  the  Cardinal  Classic  Consolation  Game.  Memorial 
Hall  Gymnasium. 

3  p.m.  —  Men's  Basketball  hosts  the  Cardinal  Classic  Championship  Game. 
Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium 

7- 1 1  p.m.  —  Esoteric  Night  featuring  presentations  on  Astrology,  Numerology, 
Tarot,  Palmistry,  Psychic  Phenomenon  and  a  basic  introduction  to  the  Stars.  Spon- 
sored by  Campus  Life.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

Sunday,  Nov.  23 

3-4:30  p.m.  —  "Discover  "  Protestant  Campus  Ministry  discussion  group.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  4. 

6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series  presents  Air  Force  One 
sponsored  by  the  Student  Association.  Tickets  $  1  S  A  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale 
at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 


Monday,  Nov.  24 

8  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 
8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Tuesday,  Nov.  25 

1 1  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus  employees. 
EAP  Office,  Kehoe410. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  6. 

12:15  p.m.  — The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Brenda  Stiles,  RN,  speaking 
on  "Alternative  Medicines."  Sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center 
Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Men's  Ice  Hockey  vs.  Middlebury.  Field  House. 

7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 

Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  2. 
8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  Nov.  26 

3  p.m.  —  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room  232. 
5  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  Peer  Recruitment  Training  Session  sponsored  by  Admissions.  Angell 
Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

7  p.m.  —  LGB  A  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Thurs.  -  Sat,  Nov.  27  -  29  (No  events  or  activities  planned  due  to  Thanksgiving) 
Sunday,  Nov.  30 

3-4:30  p.m.  —  "Discover  "  Protestant  Campus  Ministry  discussion  gjoup.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  4. 

Monday,  Dec.  1 

3and4  p.m.  —  AIDS  Awareness  Week  presents  "AIDS  101,"  sponsored  by  the 
Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom  A.. 
8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Tuesday,  Dec.  2 

1 1  a.m.-l  p.m. — Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all  campus  employees. 
EAP  Office,  Kehoe410. 

12  p.m.  —  PSU  Chapter  of  United  University  Professions,  Executive  Board  Meeting, 
open  to  campus.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting 
Room  6. 

12:15  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Denise  Burcume,  with  the 
AIDS  Council  speaking  on  "HIV/AIDS  101,"  sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center. 
Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Men's  Ice  Hockey  vs.  North  Adams.  Field  House. 

7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 

Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  2. 
8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

Wednesday,  Dec.  3 

3  p.m.  —  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building  Room  232. 
3  and  4  p.m.  —  AIDS  Awareness  Week  presents  "AIDS  101,"  sponsored  by  the 
Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 


Special  Collections 
Feinberg  Lib.,  PSUC 
Does  Not  Circulate 


on 


ocus 


STATE  UNIVERSITY  OF  NEW  YORK 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  December  4,  1 997 


$100.000  Gift  Over  Five  Years 


Plattsburgh  State  Students  to  Benefit  from  Pepsi-Cola  Gift 


The  Pepsi-Cola  Keeseville  Bot- 
tling Company  has  agreed  to  con- 
tribute a  major  gift  of  $100,000 
over  the  next  five  years  to  the  Platts- 
burgh College  Foundation.  This  is 
the  second  largest  gift  from  a  cor- 
poration ever  received  by  the  Foun- 
dation. 

The  funds  will  be  used  to  sup- 
port three  annual  student  scholar- 
ships, as  well  as  to  sponsor  the 
annual  Pepsi  Cardinal  Classic  Tour- 
naments in  ice  hockey,  basketball 
and  soccer  (men's  and  women's). 

Plattsburgh  State  President 
Horace  A.  Judson  said,  "This  gift 
demonstrates  remarkable  generos- 
ity on  the  part  of  the  Pepsi-Cola 

Keeseville  Bottling  Company.  We  have  had  a  very  positive  relation- 
ship for  many  years  and  have  been  very  grateful  to  Pepsi  and  its 
general  manager,  Roger  Burke,  for 
their  outstanding  commitment  to  pub- 
lic higher  education.  Many  students 
have  been  assisted  in  earning  their 
college  education  through  Pepsi's 
support  and  those  students  are  now 
living  and  working  in  our  own  com- 
munity.  In  addition,  thousands  of 


Roger  Burke,  general  manager  of  Pepsi-Cola,  signs  the  agreement  to  pro- 
vide $100,000  to  Plattsburgh  State  as  President  Horace  Judson  and  Fresh- 
men Marcie  Lane  of  Malone,  Christopher  Greeno  of  Brushton,  and  Chris- 
tine Cunningham  of  Troy  look  on.  The  three  students  have  received  finan- 
cial assistance  as  a  result  of  Pepsi-Cola's  previous  support  of  the  college. 


Roger  Burke,  general  man- 
ager of  Pepsi-Cola  Keeseville 
Bottling  Company,  said:  "We 
are  very  pleased  to  continue  our 
support  of  Plattsburgh  State 
University.  The  college  pro- 
vides a  first  quality  education 
to  its  students  and  we're  proud 
to  be  able  to  offer  a  helping 
hand  to  deserving  students. 
We're  also  very  aware  that  the 
college  adds  a  great  deal  to  the 
quality  of  life  in  this  region  and 
that's  why  we  will  continue  to 
support  intercollegiate  athlet- 
ics by  sponsoring  the  three  tour- 
naments." 

Don  Garrant,  executive  di- 


rector of  the  Plattsburgh  College  Foundation,  explained  that  Pepsi 
will  contribute  $20,000  each  year  to  the  Foundation  for  the  next  five 
«t-7  ii  -j         -r  7  ^     j     years.  As  part  of  the  agreement,  three 

The  College  provides  a  first  quality  edu-  new  $2  000  scholarships  will  be 

Cation  to  its  Students  and  We  're  proud  to  be  awarded  annually  to  residents  of 

able  tO  Offer  a  helping  hand  tO  deserving  Clinton,  Essex  or  Franklin  counties 
„  attending  Plattsburgh  State  on  the 

Students."  -  Roger  Burke,  General  Manager,     basis  of  academic  achievement  and 


Pepsi-Cola  Keeseville  Bottling  Co.  financial  need.  Those  students  will 

be  known  as  "Pepsi  Scholars". 

North  Country  sports  fans  have  enjoyed  the  various  intercollegiate  I  Garrant  added  that  Pepsi  has  not  only  supported  the  Foundation's 
athletic  tournaments  sponsored  by  Pepsi."  I  (See  "Pepsi-Cola  Major  Gift"  on  Page  2) 


Student  Life  Programs  Cited  as  Outstanding  in  SUNY  System 


Four  Plattsburgh  State  University  stu- 
dent-life programs  have  been  cited  by  the 
SUNY  Student  Life  Committee  of  the  Uni- 
versity Faculty  Senate  as  outstanding 
among  SUNY  campuses. 

Alternative  Spring  Break,  the  Wellness 
Workshop  Series,  Adopt-a-Friend,  and  the 
HighSchoolEmerging  Leaders  Workshop 
were  among  65  programs  nominated  by 


fellow  institutions  in  the  SUNY  system. 

In  the  fall  of  1996,  the  committee  in- 
vited nominations  from  every  SUNY  cam- 
pus for  programs  that  enrich  the  quality  of 
student  life.  Nominations  were  then  re- 
viewed and  published  in  a  volume  made 
available  to  all  campuses  as  a  way  of  shar- 
ing the  ideas  and  programs. 

The  Alternative  Spring  Break  program. 


developed  through  the  guidance  of  Bryan 
Hartman,  director  of  service  learning  and 
leadership,  was  developed  "to  challenge 
students  to  participate  in  an  extended  and 
intense  volunteer  experience.  It  provides 
students  with  an  experiential  learning 
opportunity  that  both  educates  them  about 
today's  societal  issues  and  develops  their 
(See  "Student  Life  Programs**  on  Page  2) 


Distinguished  Teaching  Professor  Douglas  Skopp 
To  be  Honored  With  Portrait  Unveiling  Dec.  11 


Dr.  Douglas  Skopp,  distinguished  teach- 
ing professor,  will  be  honored  during  a  4  p.m . 
ceremony  Thursday,  Dec.  1 1  when  his  por- 
trait is  unveiled  next  to  those  of  previously 
recognized  colleagues  in  Feinberg  Library. 

Skopp  received  his  promotion  to  SUNY' s 
highest  rank  in  April.  Skopp  became  the 
1 5th  member  of  the  Plattsburgh  State  faculty 
to  be  honored  with  the  highest  academic 
rank  in  the  64-campus  SUNY  system. 

Skopp  began  his  career  at  Plattsburgh 
State  as  an  assistant  professor  in  the  history 
department  in  September  1972  and  was  pro- 
moted to  associate  professor  in  1976.  In 
1982,  Skopp  served  as  acting  associate  vice 
president  for  academic  affairs  and  was  pro- 
moted to  full  professor  in  1983. 

He  is  the  recipient  of  the  Chancellor's 
Award  for  Excellence  in  Teaching  and  was 
selected  last  year  by  a  student  committee  as 
the  first  faculty  member  asked  to  give  a 
lecture  in  the  Honors  Council  series,  "The 


Skopp 


Last  Lecture,"  in  which 
speakers  are  asked  to  give 
their  hypothetical  last  lec- 
ture of  their  career. 

Among  his  other  hon- 
ors, Skopp  received  a 
Fulbright  Fellowship  to 
do  research  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Hannover  in  West 
Germany  ;  he  was  invited  to  lecture  at  Oxford 
University;  and  is  the  author  of  Plattsburgh 
State's  centennial  history,  "Bright  With 
Promise." 

Skopp  earned  his  bachelor' s  degree  from 
Dartmouth  College  in  1963,  his  master's 
degree  from  Connecticut  College  in  1964 
and  his  doctorate  from  Brown  University  in 
1974. 

The  Dec.  1 1  portrait-unveiling  ceremony, 
being  held  near  the  reference  room  in  Feinberg 
Library,  is  open  to  all.  A  reception  will  fol- 
low the  unveiling. 


Madrigal  Dinner  Fit  For  a  King  and  Queen 


The  Plattsburgh  State  University  Mu- 
sic Department  will  host  a  madrigal  din- 
ner Dec.  12  and  1 3  beginning  at  6  p.m.  in 
the  Warren  Ballrooms,  Angell  College 
Center. 

The  madrigal  dinner,  a  two-and-a-hal  f  - 
hour  production  set  in  the  year  1 5 1 4,  is  a 
combination  of  a  dinner  theater-in-the- 
round,  a  period  movie,  an  irnprovisa- 
tional  workshop  and  a  three-ring  circus. 

Students  in  the  Lyrics  Scenes  work 
shop  and  the  Choral  Program  will  be 
joined  by  members  oi  the  Flute  Guitar 
x  and  Brass  Ensemble 


Tickets  are  $20  per  person  and  avail- 
able at  Hartman  Theatre  Box  Office.  A 
king's  table,  which  seats  eight,  may  be 
reserved  for  $240.  Otherwise,  guests  are 
seated  at  long  tables  with  priority  for  seats 
given  in  order  payment  is  received.  Phone 
and  walk-up  orders  will  be  filled  in  order 
received.  No  refunds  will  be  given.  Box 
office  hours  are  Monday,  Wednesday  and 
Friday,  12  to  2  p.m.;  Tuesday  and  Friday,  ..r| 
2  to  5  p.m*  <m^^^^s^^i^.i^  ^w-^^vv---  

For  more  information  or  to  make  reser-  * 
vations,  call  564-2283^        "  ' "iCSS ' 

— ■■  *'■    v         mi  I  i 


Pepsi-Cola  Major  Gift  (Continued  from  Page  1) 

student  aid  program  for  many  years,  but  has  also  provided  funding  totaling  nearly  $30,000 
for  scoreboards  in  both  the  hockey  and  basketball  arenas. 

"Whenever  we  have  invited  Pepsi  to  participate  in  special  projects  like  these,"  Garrant 
said,  "the  company  has  always  responded  generously.  We  are  very  grateful  for  all  of  their 
efforts  on  our  behalf." 

During  the  past  fifteen  years  Pepsi  has  provide  the  Foundation  with  more  than  $  1 30,000 
in  private  support. 

Garrant  credited  the  College  Auxiliary  Services  with  assisting  the  Foundation  to  achieve 
the  gift. 

"It  was  necessary  to  have  CAS  sign  the  five-year  agreement  that  spells  out  the  terms  and 
conditions  of  the  gift  to  the  Foundation,"  said  Garrant.  "We  appreciate  the  support  CAS 
President  Cheryl  Hogle,  Executive  Director  Stanley  Supinski  and  the  CAS  Board  of 
Directors  have  provided  in  achieving  this  gift  from  Pepsi-Cola." 

[2] 


Student  Life  Programs 

(Continued  from  page  1) 

sense  of  identity,  community  and  responsi- 
bility." 

Student  participants  are  involved  with 
building  new  homes,  repairing  existing 
homes,  serving  meals  in  soup  kitchens  or 
assisting  in  homeless  shelters.  Since  it  began 
four  years  ago,  Alternative  Spring  Break  has 
increased  its  participation  to  seven  sites 
throughout  the  eastern  United  States. 

The  Wellness  Workshop  Series,  coordi- 
nated by  Douglas  Morrissey,  a  graduate  as- 
sistant in  Campus  Life,  is  a  compilation  of  40 
individual  presentations  on  topics  dealing 
with  some  area  of  multi-dimensional 
wellness.  Topics  vary  from  "Making  the 
Transition  to  College"  and  "Bike  Mainte- 
nance for  Beginners"  to  "Community  Ser- 
vice in  Plattsburgh"  and  "Balancing  Athlet- 
ics and  Academics." 

The  program  is  designed  to  draw  together 
various  efforts  being  presented  in  academic 
departments  and  student  affairs  offices  un- 
der one  umbrella  to  better  address  the  needs 
of  students  on  campus. 

The  annual  Adopt-a-Friend  program  be- 
gan nine  years  ago  as  a  residence  hall  pro- 
gram initiative  to  lend  a  hand  to  members  of 
the  community  in  need  at  holiday  time. 
Coordinated  by  Melanie  Wyand,  director  of 
student  activities,  it  has  grown  to  include  all 
92  residence-hall  floors,  many  student  clubs 
and  offices  as  well  as  faculty  and  staff  offices 
who  either  adopt  an  individual  or  make  a 
financial  contribution. 

The  Department  of  Social  Services  pro- 
vides the  committee  with  a  list  of  names  of 
some  175  children  and  teens  and  30  adults 
in  need.  About  50  families  are  also  services 
through  this  program  by  receiving  a  holiday 
meal  food  basket. 

Omicron  Delta  Kappa,  the  national  lead- 
ership honor  society,  coordinates  the  High 
School  Emerging  Leaders  Workshop,  which 
is  an  effort  to  promote,  recognize  and  nurture 
leadership  skills  among  area  high  school 
students. 

Area  high  schools  participate  by  select- 
ing those  freshmen  and  sophomores  who 
exhibit  potential  leadership  skills.  The  day 
consists  of  such  topics  as  leadership  styles, 
working  with  different  types  of  people,  per- 
sonal management  and  wellness  as  well  as  a 
workshop  on  how  to  get  involved  and  utilize 
one's  skills  and  abilities. 

Some  60  area  high  school  students  and  20 
members  of  the  Plattsburgh  Circle  ODK  are 


Janet  Worthington's  "Novels  and  Plays" 
A  Comprehensive  Teaching  Guide 


Middle-  and 
high-school  En- 
glish teachers 
now  have  a  useful 
and  useable 
guide  that  covers 
30  literary  works 
in  one  easy-to-use 
volume. 

Written  as  a 
tool  for  teachers  Worthington 
by  Janet  Evans  Worthington,  director  of 
the  Center  for  Lifelong  Learning  at 
Pittsburgh  State,  and  Albert  B.  Somers, 
professor  of  education  at  Furman  Univer- 
sity, Greenville,  S,C>  "Novels  and  Plays: 
Thirty  Creative  Teaching  Guides  for 
Grades  6-12  offers  a  brief  summary,  a 
listing  of  honors  or  notices  the  works  have 
received  and  how  the  young  reader  may 
perceive  the  work,  themes  and  concepts 
encountered  and  lists  the  resources  avail- 
able to  teachers  and  students,  including 
related  reading,  media  aides  and  printed 
materials, 

As  with  most  companion  texts,  each 
novel  or  play  includes  activities  for  writ- 
ing, discussion  and  vocabularly  that  in- 
structors can  select  to  weave  into  their 
appropriate  grade  level  and  curriculum. 

*  Teachers  are  also  given  literature-based 


discussion  questions  and  activities  de- 
signed to  encourage  critical  thinking 
and  exploration  of  the  authors*  message. 
Writing  activities  develop  students*  abil- 
ity to  look  beyond  the  story  and  incorpo- 
rate personal  opinion  and  experiences. 
For  instance,  in  the  chapter  on  the  book, 
'The  Giver/'  students  are  asked  to  pre- 
pare a  chart  that  compares  and  contrasts 
behaviors  in  the  book  with  those  in  con- 
temporary American  society. 

Students  see  a  multitude  of 
multicultural  offerings  that  depict  Afri- 
can Americans  ("Maniac  Magee;"  "Roll 
of  Thunder*  Hear  My  Cry");  Native 
Americans  ("Light  in  the  Forest");  Eski- 
mos ("Julie  of  the  Wolves");  and  the 
horrors  of  prejudice  and  war  ("Diary  of 
Anne  Frank")  among  others, 

An  update  of  1984's  "Candles  and 
Mirrors,"  Somers  and  Worthington  cover 
20  titles  from  the  original  and  add  10 
more.  All  have  been  updated  with  re- 
vised questions,  activities  and  include 
new  suggestions  for  related  reading  and 
teaching.  It's  a  must  for  an  ever-increas- 
ing on-line  population  as  it  offers  re- 
sources students  can  find  on  the  Internet, 
unheard  of  in  teaching  literature  1 5  years 
ago. 


New  Sports  Added 
At  Plattsburgh  State 

Plattsburgh  State  will  add  golf,  lacrosse 
and  Softball  to  it  roster  of  sports  starting  in 
the  fall  of  1998. 

Following  the  recommendation  of  the 
Intercollegiate  Athletic  Board,  President 
Horace  Judson  has  formally  approved  pro- 
posals to  add  men's  lacrosse,  women's 
softball  and  men's  and  women's  golf  to  it 
sports  at  Plattsburgh  State. 

Judson  said  the  four  sports  will  provide 
opportunities  for  approximately  75  new  stu- 
dent-athletes. "We  are  pleased  to  be  able  to 
add  these  new  sports  which  are  gaining  in 
popularity.  The  new  sports  are  either  current 
SUN  Y  Athletic  Conference  sports  or  are  being 
added  by  other  SUNY  schools,"  said  Judson. 

The  new  sports  teams  will  play  a  non- 
traditional  season  next  fall  in  preparation  for 
their  first  intercollegiate  schedule  in  the 
spring  of  1999. 

Improvements  to  the  softball  field  on 
Rugar  Street  are  already  underway  while 
modifications  for  the  lacrosse  field,  which 
will  be  replace  the  old  football  field  behind 
the  Field  House,  are  being  prepared. 

It  will  not  be  without  cost  though.  The 
athletic  fee  at  Plattsburgh,  which  is  second 
lowest  in  the  SUNY  system,  will  increase  by 
$10  to  $55  per  semester. 


Dr.  Ralph  Grover,  Professor  Emeritus  of  Education,  Dead  at  76 


G rover 


Long-time 
Plattsburgh  State 
education  professor 
Dr.  Ralph  N.  Grover 
Jr.,  76,  of  Plattsburgh, 
died  Thursday,  Nov. 
20,  1997. 

Dr.  Grover,  who 
retired  from  the  Cen- 
ter for  Teacher  Edu- 
cation in  1985  but 
continued  teaching  part-time  in  retirement, 
was  born  June  18, 192 1  in  Islip,  N.Y.  the  son 
of  Ralph  N.  and  Mary  B.  (Arnold)  Grover. 

Dr.  Grover  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  Air 
Corps  during  World  War  II  from  1943  to 
1946  where  he  was  a  first  lieutenant,  a  B- 1 7 
pilot  assigned  to  the  100th  Bomb  Group, 
351st  Squadron,  8th  Air  Force,  Third  Divi- 
sion in  England. 

He  received  his  bachelor's  degree  in  el- 
ementary education  from  Plattsburgh  State 
in  1947;  a  master's  degree  in  elementary 
education  from  St.  Lawrence  University  in 


1949  and  earned  his  doctorate  in  1955  from 
Teachers  College  at  Columbia  University. 
He  also  studied  at  the  American  University 
in  Biarritz,  France  and  did  post-doctoral 
work  at  McGill  University  in  Montreal. 

He  joined  the  faculty  of  his  alma  mater  in 
1956  as  a  professor  of  education.  Prior  to 
that,  he  served  as-supervising  teacher  at  the 
campus  school  of  Potsdam  College  and 
taught  grades  6-8  at  Cha/y  Central  Rural 
School  in  the  spring  of  1947. 

Dr.  Horace  Judson,  president  of 
Plattsburgh  State,  commended  Dr.  Grover 
for  his  many  years  of  service  to  the  college, 
community  and  scores  of  students  he  helped 
educate  to  become  teachers. 

"Ralph  Grover  contributed  more  than  30 
years  of  dedicated  expertise  in  education  to 
the  students  of  our  college,"  Judson  said. 
"He  was  a  pioneer  in  the  field  of  teacher 
education,  administration  and  supervision. 
While  I  did  not  know  him  as  a  teacher,  I  knew 
him  personally  and  I  have  heard  from  many 
of  our  alumni  —  who  were  his  former  stu- 


dents —  that  he  was  a  beloved  individual 
admired  for  his  outstanding  teaching  and 
dedicated  service  to  students.  He  will  be 
sadly  missed." 

Dr.  Grover  is  survived  by  his  wife,  Joyce; 
two  sons  and  daughters-in-law,  a  brother  and 
sister-in-law,  two  grandsons,  several  nieces 
and  nephews.  Memorial  donatiorfs  may  be 
made  to  the  Plattsburgh  State  College  Foun- 
dation or  the  American  Heart  Association. 

Annual SEFA  Campaign 
Reaches  $35,000 Goal 

Plattsburgh  State  faculty  and  staff  have 
pledged  more  than  $35,500  toward  the  State 
Employees  Federated  Appeal.  That  repre- 
sents 101  percent  of  this  year's  goal  of 
$35,000. 

Although  the  campaign  on  campus  offi- 
cially ended  Monday,  Marly n  Cotter  said 
she  would  still  take  any  contributions  or 
pledges  from  those  who  have  not  completed 
their  forms. 


[3] 


City  Plan  Updated  by  Alum,  Faculty,  Students 


Bryan  McMahon  of  Saratoga  Associates  (center)  and  Professors  Brian  Higgins  and  Richard  Lamb 
review  information  for  a  project  to  update  the  City  of  Plattsburgh  comprehensive  plan. 


Three  generations  of  Plattsburgh  State 
geographers  and  planners  are  involved  in  a 
City  of  Plattsburgh  comprehensive  plan 
update. 

The  comprehensive  plan  for  the  City  of 
Plattsburgh  was  last  updated  in  1982.  The 
current  update,  started  in  September  1996, 
was  funded  by  a  $120,000  Housing  and 
Urban  Development  grant  designed  to  ad- 
dress changes  due  to  the  closing  of  Plattsburgh 
Air  Force  Base. 

A  subcontract  between  the  Saratoga  Asso- 
ciates and  the  college  includes  the  design, 
administration  and  analysis  of  a  downtown 
planning  research  component. 

Bryan  Higgins,  professor  of  geography 
and  coordinator  of  the  department's  plan- 
ning program,  Brian  McMahon,  1982 
Plattsburgh  graduate  and  partner  with 
Saratoga  Associates,  and  current  geography 
and  planning  students  Dan  Kwasnowski  and 
Matt  Rogers,  are  coordinating  the  effort. 

"I'm  the  old-timer;  Brian  is  the  second 
generation  and  Dan  and  Matt  are  the  current 
generation  of  the  geography  and  planning 
departments,"  Higgins  said.  "The  City  of 
Plattsburgh  hired  Saratoga  Associates  to 
update  their  plan  from  1982.  Because  of  my 
knowledge  of  the  area  and  my  relationship 
with  Brian  —  he  took  the  first  planning 
course  I  ever  taught  —  they  invited  us  to  be 
part  of  the  project. " 

Dr.  Richard  Lamb,  a  professor  in  the  Cen- 
ter for  Earth  and  Environmental  Science  and 
a  noted  expert  in  planning,  is  also  involved 
in  the  project. 

"I've  kept  in  touch  over  the  years  with 
Bryan  and  Dick  (Lamb),"  McMahon  said.  "I 


liked  the  idea  of  working  with  friends  on  a 
pretty  substantial  project.  These  guys  do 
some  outstanding  work,  some  on  a  national 
and  international  level.  It  was  great  to  work  I 
with  them  on  something  in  their  own  back 
yard." 

Part  of  the  project  included  conducting  a 
survey  of  downtown  businesses  that  asked, 
among  other  things,  how  they  viewed 
changes  in  downtown  Plattsburgh  over  the 
last  five  years. 

"Surprisingly,  a  large  percent  of  those 
surveyed  thought  things  had  improved 
downtown,"  Higgins  said.  "More  than  80 
percent  thought  downtown  has  seen  some 
degree  of  improvement." 

"The  biggest  challenge  is  finding  a  solu- 
tion to  the  Center  City  problem  —  the  need 
for  student  housing  versus  the  need  to  give 
single-family  homeowners  a  reasonable  re- 
turn for  their  property,"  McMahon  said. 

Although  McMahon  traveled  to 
Plattsburgh  during  the  course  of  the  project, 
he  has  been  back  to  his  alma  mater  on  previ- 
ous occasions  over  the  years.  The  36-year- 
old,  originally  from  Albany,  makes  his  home 
in  Saratoga  Springs  with  his  wife,  Susan 
McDonough. 

After  graduating  in  1982  with  a  dual  de- 
gree in  environmental  science  and  geogra- 
phy, McMahon  received  his  master's  in  en- 
vironmental science  from  the  College  of 
Environmental  Science  and  Forestry  at  Syra- 
cuse. He  worked  briefly  in  New  Hampshire 
and  then  from  1985  through  1990  worked  in 
Washington,  D.C.  in  community  planning 
for  a  regional  planning  commission.  He 
joined  Saratoga  Associates  in  1990. 

[4] 


Art  Museum  Acquisitions 
Featured  at  Holiday  Event 

The  Plattsburgh  Art  Museum  staff  will 
host  "Holidays  at  Kent  and  Slatkin,"  a  dis- 
play of  treasures,  gifts  and  acquisitions  that 
have  been  added  to  the  permanent  collec- 
tion during  the  year. 

This  year's  gifts  include  an  African  piece 
purchased  by  the  Student  Association  Ac- 
quisition Committee,  six  floral  watercolor 
paintings  donated  by  former  Plattsburgh 
resident  Noriko  Hasegawa  and  four  large 
sculptures  by  Harry  Gordon,  Rodger  Mack, 
Danny  Kainz  and  Jon  Isherwood.  A  com- 
plete list  of  all  works  and  their  locations  will 
be  available  in  the  Kent  Gallery  and  the 
Regina  Slatkin  Art  Collections  Study  Room. 

"Holidays  at  Kent  and  Slatkin"  will  be 
held  Friday,  Dec.  5  from  4  to  6  p.m.  at  both 
the  Rockwell  Kent  Gallery  and  the  Slatkin 
Room.  For  more  information,  call  564-2474 
or  564-2178. 

Operation  Safeguard 
SUNY  Today 

Calling  it  a  preemptive  strike  against  ex- 
pected attacks  on  SUNY's  budget  for  the 
coming  year,  Operation  Safeguard  SUNY 
kicked  off  this  morning  with  a  testimonial 
breakfast  from  8  to  9: 15  a.m.  in  the  Angell 
College  Center  Warren  Ballroom. 

Coordinated  by  the  United  University 
Professions,  Civil  Service  Employees  Asso- 
ciation and  the  SUNY  Community  Mayors 
Coalition,  Operation  Safeguard  SUNY  will 
draw  attention  to  Plattsburgh  State  and  the 
other  campuses  in  the  SUNY  system. 

Several  community  individuals  were  to 
speak  about  the  college  and  its  relationship 
with  the  surrounding  communities. 

Plattsburgh  State  students  are  also  plan- 
ning a  noontime  rally  in  Amitie  Plaza  (War- 
ren Ballrooms  if  bad  weather).  At  3  p.m., 
faculty  members  Linda  Ames  and  Olivia 
O'  Donald  will  lead  discussion  in  the  Warren 
Ballroom  and  Cardinal  Lounge  of  Angell 
College  Center  on  the  importance  of  public 
higher  education  in  New  York  State. 


Correction 

The  name  of  Senator  Ronald  B. 
Stafford  was  inadvertently  left  out  of 
the  E.  Glenn  Giltz  Society  in  the 
1996-97  Friends  Campaign  listing  of 
the  President 's  Report  and  Honor  Roll 
of  Donors.  We  apologize  for  the  error. 


SPOTLIGHT 


Dr.  Anna  Battigelli 
William  Crosby 
Mary  Dossin 
Richard  Lagiewski 
Dr.  Alexis  Levitin 


articles  in  various  stages  of  publication.  "No 
Contest,"  a  piece  written  collaboratively 
with  her  basic  composition  and  tutoring 
students,  will  be  published  in  the  Winter 
1997  issue  of  "Indiana  English,"  the  official 
publication  of  the  Indiana  Council  of  Teach- 
ers of  English.  "Preparation,"  an  essay  de- 
scribing her  training  of  peer  writing  tutors, 
has  been  accepted  for  publication  in  an  up- 
coming issue  of  Writing  Lab  Newsletter,  a 


Dr.  Anna  Battigelli,  associate  pro- 
fessor of  English,  was  the  featured 
speaker  at  the  Biography  Seminar  at 
New  York  University  Oct.  22  where 
she  presented  a  paper  and  biography 
on  Virginia  Woolf. 

William  Crosby,  professor  in  the 
art  department,  has  an  exhibition  of  68 
works  at  the  Council  on  the  Arts  for 
Clinton  County  through  Nov.  14. 
Called  "Edges:  The  Natural  Shoreline  of 
Lake  Champlain,"  the  photos  depict 
Crosby's  love  of  Lake  Champlain  and  its 
varied  landscape.  In  addition.  Crosby  has 
two  abstract  landscape  paintings  in  the 
Alumni  Art  Show  1997  of  the  University  of 
Michigan  School  of  Art  and  Design,  Ann 
Arbor,  Mich,  through  Nov.  15.  Crosby  re- 
ceived his  bachelor's  degree  in  1961  and  his 
master's  degree  in  1963  from  the  University 
of  Michigan. 

Mary  Dossin,  writing  specialists  in  the 
Claude  J.  Clark  Learning  Center,  has  three 


Lagiewski 


.evitin 


publication  of  the  National  Writing  Centers 
Association.  It  will  include  a  bibliography 
of  all  of  her  published  articles  on  tutoring 
and  writing.  "Holy  Days,"  a  meditation  on 


her  mother's  final  days,  will  be  published  in 
the  spring  1998  issue  of  The  Cresset:  A 
Review  of  Arts,  Literature  and  Public  Af- 
fairs, published  by  Valparaiso  University. 

Richard  Lagiewski,  assistant  professor 
in  the  Department  of  Hotel,  Restaurant  and 
Tourism  Management,  has  been  selected  to 
serve  as  chairman  of  the  Computer  Users 
Special  Interest  Section  of  the  Council  on 
Hotel,  Restaurant  and  Institutional  Educa- 
tion. 

Dr.  Alexis  Levitin,  professor  in  the 
English  department,  spent  the  month 
of  July  as  a  resident  scholar  at  the 
Rockefeller  Foundation  Bellagio 
Study  and  Conference  Center  in 
Bellagio,  Italy  to  continue  work  on  his 
anthology  of  20th  century  Portuguese 
poetry  in  translation.  In  addition, 
Levitin  has  just  had  a  new  book  of 
translations  slated  for  publication  in  No- 
vember: Another  Name  for  Earth  by  Eugenio 
de  Andrade.  Also,  an  article  about  his  travels 
around  the  United  States  with  de  Andrade 
nearly  10  years  ago  has  just  appeared  in  the 
current  issue  of  Gavea-Brown,  a  bilingual 
journal  of  Portuguese- American  letters  and 
studies.  Additionally,  a  newly  published 
book.  Leading  Contemporary  Poets:  An  In- 
ternational Anthology, contains  Levitin' s 
translations  of  six  poems  by  four  E§Sffif\ 
leading  Portuguese  poets. 


4^ 


CAMUS  Project  Brings  Canadian,  Mexican  Students  to  Campus 


A  joint  project  between  the  United  States, 
Canada  and  Mexico  is  allowing  students  to 
experience  the  educational  and  socio-eco- 
nomic offerings  of  their  neighbors  to  the 
north  and  south. 

Pittsburgh  State  is  among  six  universi- 
ties participating  in  the  Canada-Mexico- 
U.  S.  Academic  Exchange  Program  as  part  of 
the  North  American  Student  Mobility 
project,  a  tri-lateral  educational  program 
spearheaded  by  Carleton  University  in  Ot- 
tawa. 

According  to  Dr.  Jeanne  Kissner,  director 
of  international  projects  at  the  Center  for  the 
Study  of  Canada,  Plattsburgh  State  was  in- 
vited to  be  one  of  two  U.S.  institutions  to 
participate.  She  was  asked  to  direct  the 
project  in  the  United  States  and  selected  as 
the  college's  U.S.  partner  the  University  of 
Connecticut. 

Joining  Plattsburgh  State  and  UConn  are 
Carleton  University  and  Universite  Laval  in 
Quebec  City,  and  Universidad  Autonomo 
de  Coahuila  and  Universidad  de  Monterray 
in  Mexico. 


The  CAMUS  project,  funded  by  a 
$306,000  grant  from  the  Fund  for  the  Im- 
provement of  Postsecondary  Education,  in- 
volves the  exchange  of  72  students  over 
three  years  among  the  six  institutions,  the 
development  of  an  electronic  link  between 
institutions  and  the  strengthening  of  profes- 
sional language  skills  in  English,  Spanish 
and  French. 

"The  entire  grant  was  written  on  email, " 
Kissner  said.  "The  text  of  the  grant  had  to  be 
identical  in  all  three  countries,  so  email 
made  it  easier.  Each  set  of  institutions  had  to 
present  the  application  to  their  own  govern- 
ment. Ours  was  through  FIPSE.  Each  was 
then  adjudicated  in  each  country  and  then 
through  a  tri-lateral  commission. " 

Kissner  said  that  the  vast  majority  of  the 
money  goes  into  student  scholarships. 

The  fall  1 997  semester  is  the  first  in  which 
students  were  exchanged  on  each  campus, 
Kissner  said.  This  year,  Plattsburgh  State 
plays  host  to  four  students  from  the  north  and 
south:  Valerie  Beausejour  and  Annie 
Fournier  from  Laval  and  Marcella  Vargas 

[5] 


and  Cristina  Guerra  from  Monterrey.  Stu- 
dents involved  in  the  exchange  represent  a 
wide  variety  of  majors,  from  business  and 
law  to  medicine  and  political  science,  Kissner 
said. 

"The  best  part  of  the  program  is  the  orga- 
nization," Fournier  said.  "We  all  have  some- 
one to  relate  to  here  on  campus.  I  think  it's 
the  best  experience,  especially  for  someone 
wanting  to  learn  (a  language).'' 

Fournier,  who  is  studying  to  be  an  En- 
glish-as-a-second-language  teacher  in  Que- 
bec, praised  the  Center  for  the  Study  of 
Canada  as  well,  saying  the  staff  "is  always 
there  to  answer  questions  and  give  us  what- 
ever help  we  need.  We're  never  alone,  and 
I've  met  a  lot  of  people  through  the  (CAMUS) 
program." 

"Our  ultimate  goal  is  to  have  students  who 
are  multilingual,  culturally  sensitive  and 
well-informed  about  their  neighbors  to  the 
north  and  south  who  will  establish  among 
themselves  a  CAMUS-scholar  network  that 
works  in  partnership  in  a  global  society," 
Kissner  said. 


Cardinal  Sports 


Alumnus  Honored  For  Gift 
To  Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium 


Thomas  Cummmgs,  a  1956  Plattsburgh  State  graduate  and  mem- 
ber of  the  Pittsburgh  State  Sports  Hall  of  Fame,  is  congratulated 
by  President  Horace  Judson  after  a  plaque  was  recently  unveiled 
honoring  Cummings.  The  plaque,  located  at  the  entrance  to  the 
Memorial  Halt  gymnasium,  honors  Cummings  for  his  recent  dona- 
tion of  $10,001)  to  the  Pittsburgh  College  Foundation,  which  was 
used  for  the  sound  system  in  the  newly  renovated  gym. 


Remains  Undefeated 

Men'sBasketbaDTeamWinsThirdStraight 

The  Pittsburgh  State  men' s  basketball  team  continued  their  winning  ways, 
handing  St.  Joseph' s  (VT)  an  83-67  loss  to  gain  their  third  straight  victory  Nov. 
24. 

Glenn  VanHouten  of  Norwich  led  the  Cardinals,  scoring  15  points  and 
grabbing  6  boards  in  just  22  minutes.  Jeff  Woodell  of  Glens  Falls  and  Cory 
Burke  of  Rochester  each  added  1 2  points  as  Pittsburgh  improved  to  a  perfect 
3-0  on  the  season. 

The  Cardinals  will  travel  to  Utica/Rome  on  Friday. 

Women  Open  SUNYAC  Season  at  Utica/Rome 

Opening  their  season  at  the  highly  competitive  North  Country  Invitational 
Nov.  2 1  and  22,  the  Plattsburgh  State  women' s  team  lost  to  St.  Lawrence  6 1  - 
62  in  overtime  and  fell  to  Vassar  44-51  in  the  consolation  game. 

In  the  first  game,  the  Cardinals  were  up  by  as  much  as  1 0  points  in  the  second 
half  but  could  not  hold  the  lead  as  St.  Lawrence  handed  Plattsburgh  a  one-point 
overtime  loss.  North  Country  Invitational  All-Tournament  selection  Kerry  of 
North  Bangor  led  the  Cardinals  with  1 1  points  while  freshman  Jodi  Forgette 
of  Plattsburgh  sank  three  free  throws  with  one  second  left  in  regulation  to  force 
overtime,  chipped  in  10  points. 

The  next  day  the  Cardinals  fell  to  Vassar  44-51.  Katie  of  Champlain  paced 
Plattsburgh  with  1 0  points  while  Tara  Butler  from  Childwold  had  nine  points 
and  six  boards  and  freshman  Jana  Rhude  of  Rome  pulled  down  a  game-high 
10  rebounds. 

The  women's  team  will  play  on  the  road  at  Utica/Rome  on  Friday. 


Hockey  Team  Defeats  Defending  Div.  Ill  Champs 

The  men' s  ice  hockey  team,  facing  Middlebury,  the  three-time  defending 
Division  III  national  champions,  gave  a  solid  team  performance  to  shutout  the 
Panthers  4-0 

The  Cardinals  jumped  out  to  a  2-0  first  period  lead  with  a  goals  from  Eric 
SilvermanofNyackandTrevorCameronofMassena.  Despite  being  outshot 
36-9  over  the  final  two  periods,  Brad  Erbsland  of  Rye  Brook  turned  away  all 
36  shots,  and  a  total  of  45  for  the  game,  to  hand  Middlebury  their  first  shutout 
in  47  games.  Silverman  registered  his  second  goal  of  the  game  in  the  second 
period  while  to  Eric  Seidel  of  Nyack  tallied  a  third-period  goal  to  give 
Plattsburgh  the  4-0  victory. 

Last  weekend,  the  Cardinals  skated  to  a  4-4  overtime  tie  with  Colby  in  the 
UCONN  Tourney  Colby  scored  at  four  minutes  of  the  second  overtime  to  win 
5-4  and  send  Plattsburgh  to  the  consolation  game.  In  Saturday '  s  consolation 
game,  Jeff  Paluseo  of  Plymouth,  MA,  had  a  hat-trick  to  lead  Plattsburgh  over 
the  University  of  Findlay  6-4.  Eric  Silverman  had  three  assists  in  the  win  whi  le 
Evan  Slyvester  of  Hanson,  MA,  T.J,  Bannister  of  Arlington,  MA,  and  Eric 
Seidel  all  added  goals.  Bannister's  goal  was  the  first  of  his  Cardinal  career. 
Silverman  has  been  the  hottest  Cardinal  of  late,  registering  7  points  (3  goals, 
4  assists)  in  the  last  three  games. 

Plattsburgh  will  hit  the  road  to  face  conference  opponents  Oswego  State 
and  Cortland  State  this  Friday  and  Saturday. 

Long  Top  Finisher  For  Cardinals 

Men's,  Women's  X-Country  Season  Ends  at  NC  A  As 

Making  thei  r  thi  rd  NCAA  appearance  in  four  years,  the  Plattsburgh  State 
men's  cross  country  team  raced  to  a  19th  place  finish  at  the  NCAA  Division 
III  Cross  Country  Championships  Nov.  22  while  the  women' s  team, ,  fini  shed 
2 1st  overall. 

Walter  Long  of  Smithtown  finished  80th,  covering  the  8,000  meter  course 
in  26:4 1 .  Matt  LoPiccolo  of  Norwich  was  the  second  finisher  for  Plattsburgh, 
taking  1 26th  place  in  27: 14,  followed  by  Mike  Yemma  of  Orchard  Park  127th 
in  27: 14. 

Amy  Nutt  of  Champlain  was  the  top  finisher  for  the  women  Cardinals, 
placing  1 1 2th  in  20: 1 2.  Cara  Cameron  of  Delmar  was  the  second  finisher  for 
Plattsburgh,  covering  the  course  in  a  time  of  20: 14  to  finish  1 19th.  Close 
behind  was  K.T.  of  Cleveland  who  placed  121st  in  20:15. 

It  marks  the  final  cross  country  meet  for  seniors  Nutt,VanBoden,  Long, 
LoPiccolo  and  Ken  Drake  of  Plattsburgh. 

Nine  Women,  Three  Men  Qualify  For  SUNYAC s 

Women's  Swim  Team  3rd,  Men  6th  at  N.  C.  Invite 

The  Plattsburgh  State  women's  swim  team  finished  third  at  the  10  team 
North  Country  Invitational  Nov .  22  and  23  while  the  men  swam  to  a  sixth  place 
finish. 

Ann  White  of  Rome  led  the  Cardinals,  breaking  her  own  school  record  in 
the  200  backstroke  (2: 19.67)  to  win  the  event  and  shaved  .6  off  the  school 
record  in  winning  the  100  backstroke.  Beth  Heybyrne  of  West  Islip  was  the 
other  top  finisher  for  Plattsburgh  taking  second  place  in  the  500  and  1 ,650  free. 
To  date,  nine  team  members  have  qualified  for  SUN  Y  ACs.  Along  with  White 
and  Heybyrne  are  Sue  Starr,  Jill  Andreeff,  Holly  Burge,  Dana  Singer,  Amy 
Parry,  Katie  Flanagan  and  Leslie  Crawford. 

Keith  Kazmer  of  Schenectady,  Robert  Bahr  of  Setauket  and  Matt  Buneo 
of  Victor,  had  SUN  Y  AC-qualifying  performances  for  the  Cardinals.  Kazmer 
qualified  in  the  1 00  fly  and  1 00  back;  Bahr  the  1 00  and  500  free  and  1 00  fly; 
Buneo  the  400 1.M. 

The  Cardinals  will  travel  to  Potsdam  State  on  Friday  and  then  face  Norwich 
at  home  at  1  p.m.  on  Saturday. 


[6] 


_focus  ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 

Thursday,  Dec.  4  -  Friday,  Dec.  19 
Unless  otherwise  noted,  all  events  are  free  and  open  to  the  public. 
Check  out  the  daily  Calendar  on  the  Web  at  www.plattsburgh.edu. 


NOTES: 

The  next  Bus  to  Montreal  will  be  on  Saturday,  Dec.  6, 9  a.m.  —  5:30  p.m.,  sponsored  by  the  Office  of  Campus  Life.  Tickets:  $  10 
round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk.  The  bus  brings  you  to  Dorchester  Square.  Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar 
Street  pull-off. 

Recreational  Skating  for  Plattsburgh  State  Faculty  and  Staff  will  be  held  on  Dec. 4,9,  11,  16,  18, from  12-1  p.m.,  no  charge.  For 
further  information  call  4062. 

Applications  for  the  1998-99  Resident  Assistant  positions  must  be  filed  with  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students  in  Angell  College 
Center  by  Friday,  Dec.  5,  at  4:30  p.m.  For  last  minute  details,  contact  Cheryl  Hogle  or  Aaron  Bochniak  in  the  Office  of  the  Dean 
of  Students. 


Thursday,  December  4 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  presents  Susan 
Kelley  and  Heidi  Zielinski  of  STOP  Domestic  Violence  present- 
ing an  interactive  workshop,  sponsored  by  the  Women's  Studies 
Program  with  assistance  from  CAS.  Angell  Center  Cardinal 
Lounge. 

1:30-8  p.m.  —  Teach-in  on  SAFEGUARD  SUNY,  sponsored  by 
UUP.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge,  Warren  Ballrooms  and 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  the  Student 
Health  Center  Staff  and  "FIT  Stop."  Sponsored  by  the  Wellness 
Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Caribbean  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Hall  Council  Presidents'  meeting,  open  to  members 
only.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

Friday,  December  5 

3  p.m.  —  Holiday  Shopping  Bus  to  Burlington  —  Downtown 
Church  Street  and  the  University  Mall,  sponsored  by  Campus 
Life.  Tickets:  $3  per  person,  on  sale  at  the  Angiell  center  Desk. 
Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street  pull-off. 
4-6  p.m.  —  Holidays  at  the  Kent  and  Slatkin,  hosted  by  the 
Plattsburgh  Art  Museum  Staff.  Rockwell  Kent  Gallery  and  the 
Regina  Slatkin  Art  Collections  Study  Room. 

4  p.m.  —  Omicron  Delta  Kappa  meeting  of  the  Membership, 
open  to  members  only.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

4  p.m.  —  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room 
8. 

4:30-6  p.m.  —  AKEBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

5:30  p.m.  —  Holiday  Gala  and  Ballroom  Dinner  Dance  with  the 
Jazz  Ensemble,  sponsored  by  the  Music  Department  and  the 
Quantity  Foods  Program.  Tickets:  $20,  general  admission,  call 
564-2216  for  ticket  and  reservation  information.  Sibley  Hall 
Cafe. 

6  p.m.  —  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  The  SA  Activities  Coordination  Board  presents  De  La 
Soul  in  Concert.  Tickets:  $5  SA,  $10  public,  on  sale  at  the 
Angell  Center  Desk.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms.  . 

Saturday,  December  6 

9  a.m. -5:30  p.m.  —  Bus  to  Montreal  sponsored  by  the  Office  of 


Campus  Life.  Tickets:  $10  round  trip,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Bus  departs  from  the  Angell  Center,  Rugar  Street 
pull-off. 

1  p.m.  —  Men's  and  Women's  Swimming  vs.  Norwich  Univer- 
sity. Memorial  Hall. 

1  p.m.  —  Medieval  Festival,  sponsored  by  the  Medieval  Reen- 
actment  Club.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 
4  p.m.  —  Omicron  Delta  Kappa  Honor  Society  New  Member 
Induction.  Hawkins  Hall  Recital  Hall. 

7  p.m.  —  Holiday  Banquet  sponsored  by  the  Honors  Student 
Association,  open  to  members  only.  Tickets:  $11  students,  $14 
faculty/staff,  on  sale  in  the  Honors  Center  Office.  Angell  Center 
Plattsburgh  Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Sadie  Hawkins  Dance  and  Hawaiian  Night,  sponsored 
by  Moffitt  Hall  Council.  Donation  of  a  canned  food  item,  to 
benefit  the  Food  Shelf  is  requested  for  admission.  Angell  Center 
Warren  Ballrooms. 

Sunday,  December  7 

3-4:30  p.m.  —  "Discover"  Protestant  Campus  Ministry  discus- 
sion group.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  4. 
6  p.m.  —  Activities  Coordination  Board  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Meeting  Room  8. 

6:45  and  9:15  p.m.  —  Sunday  Night  at  the  Movies  Series 
presents  Nothing  to  Lose  sponsored  by  the  Student  Association. 
Tickets  $1  SA  Members  or  Movie  Pass,  on  sale  at  the  Angell 
Center  Desk.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 
8  p.m.  —  Men's  J.V.  Basketball  vs.  the  Word  of  Life  Institute. 
Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium. 

Monday,  December  8 

6  p.m.  —  Chapters  of  Excellence  Banquet  sponsored  by  Greek 
Affairs,  open  to  members  only.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom 
B. 

7:30  p.m.  —  The  Campus  Poets  Series  presents  Steven  K. 
Mitchell,  sponsored  by  the  Department  of  Foreign  Language  and 
Literature  and  the  Faculty  of  Arts  and  Science.  Newman  Center, 
90  Broad  Street. 

8  p.m.  —  "After  the  Heroes:  Work  (and  play)  of  an  Antarctic 
Engineer,"  a  public  lecture  featuring  a  slide  and  film  presenta- 
tion by  George  Blaisdell,  sponsored  by  the  English  Department 
and  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Arts  and  Science.  Angell  Center 
Cardinal  Lounge. 

8  p.m.  —  American  Marketing  Association  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  7. 

8  p.m.  —  Circle  K  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 
Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Hillel  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  8. 


8  p.m.  —  El  Pueblo  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

Tuesday,  December  9 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinic  for  all 
campus  employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 

12  p.m.  —  Center  for  Womyn's  Concerns  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  6. 

12:15  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  Tracey 
Corey  of  the  Fitness  Center  speaking  on  "Fitness  Basics," 
sponsored  by  the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Amnesty 
Room. 

4:15  p.m.  —  Faculty  Senate  Meeting.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh 
Room. 

5:15  p.m.  —  Holiday  Gala  with  Flute  Ensemble  and  Saxophone 
Quartet,  sponsored  by  the  Music  Department  and  the  Quantity 
Foods  Program.  Tickets:  $17  general  admission,  $14  SA  Mem- 
bers and  Sr.  Citizens,  $8  children  ages  4-10.  Call  564-2216  for 
tickets  and  reservations.  Sibley  Hall  Cafe. 
7  p.m.  —  Medieval  Re-enactment  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Amnesty  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Institute  of  Management  Accountants  (IMA)  weekly 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  Men's  Ice  Hockey  vs.  SUNY  Potsdam.  Tickets  on  sale 
at  the  door.  Stafford  Ice  Arena. 

7  p.m.  —  College  Republicans  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  2. 

8  p.m.  —  The  Visiting  Poet  and  Writer  Series  presents  Elliot 
Richman,  author  of  World  Dancer,  reading  from  his  poetry. 
Sponsored  by  the  English  Department  and  the  Office  of  the  Dean 
of  Arts  and  Science.  CV  Hall  Commons. 

8  p.m.  —  Men's  J.V.  Basketball  vs.  Clinton  Community  College.  | 
Memorial  Hall  Gymnasium. 

8:15  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Meeting  Room  8. 

9  p.m.  —  Environmental  Action  Committee  weekly  club 
meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  7. 

Wednesday,  December  10 

3  p.m.  —  Music  Council  weekly  meeting.  Myers  Fine  Arts 
Building  Room  232. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Canada  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Ringing  Down  the  Curtain  —  a  reprise  of  the  semester's 
best  class  work,  sponsored  by  the  Theatre  Department.  Hartman 
Theatre,  Myers  Fine  Arts  Building. 

7  p.m.  —  Peer  Recruitment  meeting,  sponsored  by  the  Admis- 
sions Office.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 
7  p.m.  —  LGBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

Thursday,  December  11 

10  a.m.-2  p.m.  —  US  Army  Information  Table.  Angell  Center 
Lobby. 

11  a.m.-3  p.m.  —  CVPH  Blood  Drive.  Angell  Center  Flynt 
Commons. 

12:10-1  p.m.  —  The  Women's  Studies  Forum  celebrates  Winter! 
Many  cultures  have  major  celebrations  in  the  winter  —  come 
hear  about  some  and  bring  your  favorite  stories  to  share.  Spon- 
sored by  the  Women's  Studies  Program  with  assistance  from 
CAS.  Angell  Center  Cardinal  Lounge. 

12:30  p.m.  —  Guest  Speaker  on  Dietetic  Internships,  sponsored 
by  the  Student  Dietetics  Association.  Angell  Center  Conference 
Room. 

4  p.m.  —  Order  of  Omega  New  Member  Reception,  by  invitation 
only.  Angell  Center  Flynt  Commons. 

4:30  p.m.  —  The  Wellness  Workshop  Series  presents  the  Stress 


Management  Trainers  speaking  on  "Relaxation."  Sponsored  by 
the  Wellness  Center.  Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

5  p.m.  —  Club  Caribbean  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Club  Appreciation  Dessert  Reception.  Sponsored  by 
Organization  Activities  Board  of  SA.  College  Center  Plattsburgh 
Room. 

8  p.m.  —  Economics  Club  presents  Mr.  Goodman,  speaking  on 
trading  on  the  NY  Stock  Exchange.  College  Center  Meeting 
Room  8. 

8  p.m.  —  Organization  for  Women  of  Ethnicity  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Adirondack  Experience  Club  weekly  meeting.  Angell 
Center  Conference  Room. 

Friday,  December  12 

4  p.m>  —  ASPCE  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room 

8. 

4:30-6  p.m.  —  AKEBA  weekly  meeting.  Angell  Center  Confer- 
ence Room. 

6  p.m.  —  Madrigal  Dinner  sponsored  by  the  Plattsburgh  State 
Music  Department.  Tickets:  $20,  on  sale  at  the  Hartman  Box 
Office  (M-W-F  12-2p.m.,  T-Th  2-5p.m.)  or  call  564-2283.  Angell 
Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

6  p.m.  —  Intervarsity  Christian  Fellowship  weekly  meeting. 
Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

7  p.m.  —  Performance  Reading  featuring  a  new  student  play, 
sponsored  by  the  Theatre  Department.  Studio  Theatre,  Myers 
Fine  Arts  Building. 

7  p.m.  —  Social  Work  Association  Dinner  and  Holiday  Social, 
open  to  the  campus.  Tickets  on  sale  at  the  Angell  Center  Desk. 
Angell  Center  Amnesty  Room. 

9  p.m.  —  Open  Mic  Night,  hosted  by  Brooke  Babbie.  Angell 
Center  Java  Jo's. 

Saturday,  December  13 

9  a.m.  —  Pi  Kappa  Phi  Journey  Retreat,  open  to  members  only. 
Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

6  p.m.  —  Madrigal  Dinner  sponsored  by  the  Plattsburgh  State 
Music  Department.  Tickets:  $20,  on  sale  at  the  Hartman  Box 
Office  (M-W-F  12-2pm,  T-Th  2-5pm)  or  call  564-2283.  Angell 
Center  Warren  Ballrooms. 

Sunday,  December  14 

9  a.m.  —  Pi  Kappa  Phi  Journey  Retreat,  open  to  members  only. 
Angell  Center  Plattsburgh  Room. 

3-4:30  p.m.  —  "Discover  "  Protestant  Campus  Ministry  discus- 
sion group.  Angell  Center  Meeting  Room  4. 

Tuesday,  December  16 

11  a.m.-l  p.m.  —  Weekly  Blood  Pressure/Wellness  Clinjc  for  all 
campus  employees.  EAP  Office,  Kehoe  410. 
12-2  p.m.  —  UUP  Retiree  Group  Luncheon/meeting,  open  to 
members  only.  Angell  Center  Conference  Room. 

Wednesday,  December  17 

1 1  a.m.  —  Holiday  Buffet  sponsored  by  Marriott.  Tickets 
available  at  the  door,  reservations  not  available.  Angell  Center 
Warren  Ballrooms. 

10  p.m.  —  SA  Executive  Council  meeting.  Angell  Center 
Conference  Room. 

Friday,  December  19 

11:30  a.m.  —  The  School  of  Business  and  Economics  Gradua- 
tion Luncheon,  by  invitation  only.  Tickets  available  from  the 
SBE  Office,  Redcay  Hall.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom  B. 

2  p.m.  —  Graduation  Ceremony.  Field  House,  Gymnasium. 

3  p.m.  —  CSEA  Holiday  Gathering,  open  to  members  only. 
Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom  B. 


Happy  Holidays  and  3esr  Wishes  For  19981 


Special  Collections 
Feinberg  Lib.,  PSUC 
Does  Not  Circulate 


on 


ocas 


PUBLISHED  BY  COLLEGE  RELATIONS  AND  DEVELOPMENT  FOR  THE  COLLEGE  COMMUNITY  •  December  17,  1997 
SUNY  Opinion  Survey  Report 

Pittsburgh  Student  Satisfaction  Tops  Among  SUNY  Undergrads 


It  may  not  be  heaven  on  earth,  but  students 
attending  Plattsburgh  State  are  much  more 
satisfied  here  than  at  other  SUNY  colleges. 

That's  according  to  the  SUNY  Student 
Opinion  Survey  completed  last  spring  1 997. 

According  to  Dr.  Henry  Morlock,  profes- 
sor of  psychology  and  coordinator  of  assess- 
ment activities,  the  survey,  "is  a  collabora- 
tive effort  by  the  American  College  Testing 
program  and  SUNY  designed  to  determine 
how  students  feel  about  many  aspects  of  the 
SUNY  unit  they  are  attending. " 

A  diverse  range  of  issues  in  academic  ser- 
vices from  new  student  orientation  programs 
to  campus  efforts  to  address  acquaintance 
rape  was  covered  in  the  survey,  which  has 
been  conducted  every  three  years  for  the  past 
15  years.  Respondents  also  rated  environ- 
ment, climate,  class  size,  freedom  from  ha- 
rassment and  the  college  in  general. 

According  to  the  survey,  Plattsburgh  stu- 
dents were  generally  positive  about  the  cam- 


pus programs  and  activities  offered  in  com- 
parison to  their  counterparts  at  other  SUNY 
campuses.    ACT  concluded,  "Overall, 


Pittsburgh's  respondents'  ratings  for  col- 
lege services  and  facilities,  college  programs 
(See  "SUNY  Student  Survey"  on  Page  3) 


Top  10  Areas 

Here  are  the  tap  10  areas  Plattsburgh  State  students  were  most  satisfied 
with  and  least  satisfied  with  at  the  campus  (not  in  any  numerical  order): 

Least  Satisfied  Areas 

♦  Parking  facilities 

•  Campus  food  services 


Most  Satisfied  Areas 

♦  Sufficient  challenge  offered  by  program 

of  study 

•  College  in  general 

•  Transfer  of  course  credits  from  other 

colleges 

♦  Freedom  from  harassment  on  campus 

♦  Quality  of  instruction 

•  Athletic  facilities 

•  Library  facilities 

•  Campus  tutoring  services 

♦  Study  areas 

♦  Learning  labs  for  writing,  languages  and 

math 


•  Dissemination  of  campus  crime  statistics 

•  Campus  efforts  to  address  acquaintance 

rape 

•  Campus  services  for  victims  of  crime 

•  Purposes  for  which  student  activity  fees 

are  used 

•  Student  voice  in  college  policies 

•  Availability  of  courses  at  certain  times 

•  Racial  and  ethnic  diversity  of  the  student 

body 

•  Extent  to  which  this  campus  helps 

students  appreciate  ethnicity 


Degrees  to  be  Conferred  Upon  500  Graduates  at  Commencement 


Nearly  500  Plattsburgh  State  University 
students  are  eligible  to  receive  bachelor's 
and  master's  degrees  during  Winter  Com- 
mencement exercises  2  p.m.  Friday,  Dec.  19 
at  the  Field  House. 

Some  1,000  friends,  faculty  and  staff  are 
also  expected  to  attend. 

Five  students  will  graduate  with  highest 
honors  of  summa  cum  laude,  3.9-4.0  gpa, 
Alison  Armstrong,  a  Spanish/Latin  Ameri- 
can Studies  major  from  Plattsburgh;  Cyndi 
Fenton,  a  cellular  biology  major  from 
Plattsburgh;  Jaime  E.  Gustafson,  environ- 
mental science  major  from  Greenfield  Cen- 
ter; Barbara  A.  Peria,  special/elementary 


education  major  from  Ticonderoga;  and 
Brandy  Jo  Thwaits,  elementary  education 
major  from  AuSable  Forks. 

Six  students  will  graduate  magna  cum 
laude,  gpa  of  3.7  to  3.89;  and  39  will  gradu- 
ate cum  laude,  gpa  of  3.4  to  3.69. 

Commencement  remarks  will  be  made  for 
the  Class  of  1997  by  Vonetta  Williams,  an 
English  major  from  St.  Albans,  (Queens,)  N.  Y 
Williams  belongs  to  the  Honors  Program,  is 
a  third-year  resident  assistant,  executive  vice 
president  of  the  Student  Association  and 
before  that  served  as  a  senator,  teaches  a 
Freshman  Experience  course,  is  a  teaching 
assistant  for  an  English  101  class,  served  as 


editor  and  chief  of  the  yearbook,  tutors  at 
the  Claude  J.  Clarke  Learning  Center,  is  a 
member  of  Omicron  Delta  Kappa  and  is 
newly  listed  in  Who's  Who  Among  College 
Students. 

Williams  is  a  recipient  of  the  Robert  Frost 
Memorial  Poetry  Prize,  a  Redcay  Scholar- 
ship, Toni  C.  Bloom  Scholarship  and  an  EOP 
Scholarship. 

Dr.  E.  Thomas  Moran,  provost  and  vice 
president  for  academic  affairs,  will  present 
candidates  for  degrees.  Conferring  degrees 
upon  graduates  will  be  President  Horace  A. 
Judson.  Robert  M.  Garrow,  chairperson  of 
(See  "Winter  Commencement"  on  Page  3) 


Commencement  Speaker 

Vonetta  Williams  Reflects  on  a  Very  Busy  Collegiate  Life 


Williams 


The  21-year-old 
English  major 
from  Queens  who 
will  deliver  the 
Winter  Com- 
mencement stu- 
dent address  said 
she's  not  surprised 
she  was  asked  to 
do  so. 

"I'm  not  sur- 
prised, but  I  am  excited,"  she  said  before 
taking  her  final  exams.  "I'm  glad  I  am  the 
one  to  speak.  I  know  I've  exhausted  all 
possible  opportunities  and  services 
Plattsburgh  State  has  to  offer." 

When  Williams  started  her  college  ca- 
reer in  the  fall  of  1993,  she  hit  the 
Plattsburgh  campus  running.  She  belongs 
to  the  Honors  Program,  is  a  third-year  resi- 
dent assistant,  executive  vice  president  of 
the  Student  Association  and  before  that 
served  as  a  senator,  teaches  a  Freshman  Ex- 


perience course,  is  a  teaching  assistant  for 
an  English  101  class,  served  as  editor  and 
chief  of  the  yearbook,  tutors  at  the  Claude 
J.  Clarke  Learning  Center,  is  a  member  of 
Omicron  Delta  Kappa  and  is  newly  listed 
in  "Who's  Who  Among  College  Students." 

Williams  is  a  recipient  of  the  Robert 
Frost  Memorial  Poetry  Prize,  a  Redcay 
Scholarship,  Toni  C.  Bloom  Scholarship 
and  an  EOP  Scholarship. 
Originally  a  bio-chemistry  major,  Williams 
was  supposed  to  graduate  in  May. 

"But  I  wasn't  disappointed.  I  saw  it  com- 
ing. I  could  have  gone  to  summer  school, 
or  I  could  have  taken  21  credits  a  semester 
to  catch  up,  but  I  wanted  to  spend  my  sum- 
mer tutoring  in  EOP,"  she  said. 

Williams  could  never  be  accused  of 
lacking  confidence.  She  has  her  future 
mapped  out,  although  she's  realistic 
enough  to  recognize  some  elements  may 
take  longer  than  others. 

"I  plan  to  start  graduate  school  in  the 


fall  at  George  Mason  University  in  Vir- 
ginia and  pursue  a  masters  of  fine  arts  in 
creative  writing,"  she  said.  "I  will  have  a 
book  of  poetry,  a  novel  and  an  autobiog- 
raphy. I  also  plan  to  do  lots  of  teaching. 
I'm  also  looking  into  a  teaching-abroad 
program  in  Africa  through  the  Peace  Corps. 
Some  day  I'd  like  to  come  back  here  to 
teach  as  well " 

Her  only  regret  was  not  switching  to 
English  earlier,  she  said. 

"But  even  the  struggle  I  went  through 
in  deciding  what  to  do  was  good,"  she  said. 

The  words  of  wisdom  she  plans  to  im- 
part at  Friday's  2  p.m.  ceremony  relates  to 
the  college's  motto:  "A  Proud  Past;  A 
Strong  Future." 

"I  want  to  tell  (students)  that  they  need 
to  carry  out  to  the  world  what  we  had  the 
opportunity  to  do  through  extra-curricu- 
lar activities,"  Williams  said. 


1828  U.S.-Canada  Boundary  Maps  in  Hands  of  Special  Collections 


Seven  original  maps  and  an  associated 
report  dating  back  to  1828  detailing  the 
boundary  between  the  United  States  and 
Canada  are  now  in  the  possession  of  Spe- 
cial Collections  at  Feinberg  Library. 

The  War  of  1812  between  Great  Britain 
and  the  United  States  ended  with  the  sign- 
ing of  the  Treaty  of  Ghent  in  1814.  Ratified 
by  Congress  two  months  later,  the  treaty 
called  for  commissions  that  would  resolve 
boundary  issues  through  subsequent  nego- 
tiations. 

The  boundary  line  between  New  Hamp- 
shire and  Lake  Superior  separating  Canada 
(then  a  colony  of  England)  and  the  U.S.  was 
a  problem  and  was  not  finalized  until  1 842 
with  the  signing  of  the  Webster-Ashburton 
Treaty. 

The  document  and  maps,  which  were  pre- 
sented by  the  Secretary  of  State  to  the  House 
of  Representatives  in  1828,  detail  the  re- 
solved issue  over  the  boundary.  The  maps 
established  the  boundary  at  the  45th  parallel 
from  New  Hampshire  to  the  Akwesasne  In- 
dian Reservation  in  New  York  State  and  then 
set  the  boundary  in  the  middle  of  the  St. 
Lawrence  River  through  the  Great  Lakes  to 
the  head  of  Lake  Superior. 


Hermon  Brown 
of  Grand  Isle,  Vt.,  re- 
cently  presented 
the  documents  to 
Special  Collections 
Librarians  Wayne 
Miller  and  Carla 
Hendrix. 

"There  were  four 
originals  made  in 
1 828  and  we  know 
where  only  two  of 
them  are,"  said 
Miller.  "We  have 
one  and  the  New 
York  Public  Library 
has  the  other." 

Miller  said  an  Hermon  Brown  (right)  of 
anonymous  donor  Librarians  Wayne  Miller 

was  about  to  give 
the  report  to  another 
area  university. 

Brown,  who  frequently  reviews  materials 
in  the  Special  Collections,  interceded  and 
suggested  that  the  rare  documents  would  be 
more  appropriately  used  if  placed  with  the 
War  of  1812  resources  available  in  Special 
Collections  at  Plattsburgh  State. 

[2] 


between  Canada  and  the 
Special  Collections. 


Grand  Isle,  Vt.,  points  out  for  Special  Collections 
and  Carla  Hendrix  the  northern  boundary  line 
United  States  on  a  1828  map  recently  donated  to 


"To  say  the  least  we  are  pleased  to  be  able 
to  add  these  rare  pieces  to  our  collection," 
said  Miller.  "These  documents  will  be  avail- 
able to  anyone  who  is  interested  in  the  his- 
tory of  Canada,  our  region,  and  the  War  of 
1812." 


Alumni  Pledge  Record  $130,000  in  Fall  Phonothon 


With  the  five  most  recent  graduating 
classes  yet  to  be  contacted,  this  year's 
Alumni  Phonothon  has  already  reached  a 
record  amount  in  pledges  to  the  Plattsburgh 
Fund. 

Carolee  Smith,  director  of  annual  giving, 
credited  outstanding  student  callers  with 
generating  $130,429  in  specific  pledges 
from  3,526  alumni.  An  additional  1,907 
alumni  said  they  would  support  the  cam- 
paign, but  did  not  commit  to  a  specific 
amount. 

"Our  student  workers  spoke  with  12,292 
alumni  during  29  calling  sessions  over  the 
past  two  months,"  Smith  said.  "Of  the  alumni 
we  were  able  to  reach,  50.22  percent  re- 
sponded positively ,  either  by  making  a  pledge 
or  by  indicating  they  had  already  sent  a 
contribution  in  response  to  our  mail  cam- 
paign. While  we  know  that  not  all  of  these 
pledges  will  be  fulfilled,  these  figures  are  an 
indication  of  growing  support  on  the  part  of 


our  alumni  for  their  alma 
mater  and  we're  very  grateful 
for  that  support." 

"More  than  40  students 
worked  this  fall  to  help  us 
raise  money  for  student  aid 
and  other  important  projects 
on  campus.  Smith  said  the 
students  were  terrific.  "Last 
year's  alumni  campaign 
raised  just  over  $244,000,  an 
increase  of  22  percent  above 
the  previous  year' s  efforts  and 

we  expect  that  this  year's   Some  of  this  year 

campaign  will  set  another  graph  during  one 
new  record,  thanks  to  these  students.  They '  ve 
worked  very  hard  to  attract  new  donors  and 
also  to  convince  previous  donors  to  increase 
the  size  of  their  pledges.  We  cannot  thank 
them  enough  for  their  dedication  to  this 
effort." 

Compared  to  last  year's  completed 


•'s  student  phonothon  workers  posed  for  a  photo- 
of  this  fall's  calling  sessions. 

phonothon,  this  year's  callers  have  already 
raised  $10,427  more  in  pledges  with  260 
fewer  pledges.  At  least  5,000  additional 
alumni  are  still  to  be  contacted  during  three 
to  four  weeks  of  calling  planned  for  the 
spring  semester. 


Campus  Community  Donates 
To  Adopt-A-Friend  Program 


Amy  Insaiaco,  a  graduate  student  in  child  and  family  services  from 
Pleasant  Valley;  Cori  Jackson-Matthews,  residence  hall  develop- 
ment coordinator;  Brooke  Babbie,  a  sophomore  general  educa- 
tion major  from  MorrisonviHe;  and  Jennifer  Wiseman,  a  gradu- 
ate assistant  In  Campus  Life;  took  time  out  from  sorting  to  review 
the  list  of  presents  for  the  annual  Adopt-A-Friend  appeal  This 
year  more  than  1,000  gifts  were  purchased  by  various  offices, 
department  and  groups  on  campus  for  130  Clinton  County 
residents.  A  total  of  $1,250  was  also  given  to  the  appeal  to  be  used 
toward  57  food  baskets.  In  addition  to  the  many  toys  purchased 
this  year,  there  were  numerous  winter  coats,  boots,  and  hats 
donated*  A  15-speed  mountain  bike  was  also  donated  by  the 
residents  of  the  sixth  floor  of  Whiteface  Hall.  Plattsburgh  State 
has  participated  in  the  Adopt-A-Friend  program  with  the  Clinton 
County  Department  of  Social  Services  for  many  years. 


SUNY  Student  Survey 

health  issues,  diversity/ 
multicultural  issues,  faculty  issues, 
special  opportunities,  campus  cli- 
mate, college  information/publi- 
cations, and  student  activities 
tended  to  be  higher  than  those  from 
other  SUNY  university  and  state- 
operated  colleges." 

President  Horace  Judson  echoed 
the  same  sentiments.  He  said, 
^Plattsburgh  State  is  a  beacon  of 
light  in  the  SUNY  system.  The  stu- 
dents coming  to  this  campus  know 
from  their  first  day  here  that  our 
faculty  are  of  the  highest  caliber 
and  are  committed  to  the  highest 
quality  of  teaching.  College  must 
be  educational,  exciting  and  di- 
verse if  we  are  to  be  successful  in 
preparing  students  as  future  profes- 
sionals/' 

In  comparison  with  the  12  other 
SUNY  university  colleges, 
Plattsburgh  State  consistently 
placed  in  the  top  three  categories 
over  70  percent  of  the  time. 


(Continued  from  Page  1) 

"Although  no  single  overall  nu- 
merical index  of  quality  is  com- 
puted on  the  data,  the  ratings  from 
our  students  were  significantly 
above  the  means  of  the  other  units," 
said  Morlock.  "An  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  items  strongly  sug- 
gest that  compared  to  students  at 
the  other  colleges,  Plattsburgh  State 
students  are  much  more  satisfied 
here,"  he  added. 

Even  though  the  survey  put 
Plattsburgh  State  in  a  favorable 
light,  Judson  stated  there  is  always 
room  for  improvement.  "Ifweareto 
continue  to  be  successful  at  educat- 
ing students,  we  need  to  address 
those  areas  that  deserve  attention. 
They  may  be  tough  to  overcome, 
but  we  should  strive  to  provide  the 
best  atmosphere  for  our  customers, 
our  students." 

More  than  15,000  students  from 
the  27  state-operated  colleges  rated 
their  institutions.  At  Plattsburgh, 
990  students  completed  survey. 


Winter  Commencement  (Continued  from  Page  1) 


the  Plattsburgh  State  College 
Council,  and  Wayne  H.  Byrne,  vice 
chairperson  of  the  Council,  will 
award  diplomas. 

About  70  masters  and  certificate 
of  advance  study  students  who 

[3] 


graduated  in  August  are  eligible  to 
participate  in  the  winter  ceremony. 

A  reception  for  graduates  will  be 
held  immediately  following  the 
ceremony  in  the  Field  House. 


Individualized  Studies  Program  Offers  Choice  in  Degree  Planning 


Hammond 


Students  who  want  to  finish  a  degree  pro- 
gram in  the  typical  four  years  need  to  apply 
for  the  program  no  later  than  the  beginning 
of  their  junior  year.  Sophomore  year  would 
be  better,  Brohel  said. 

"It's  a  vigorous  program,"  Brohel  said. 
"Students  have  to  justify  why  they  want  to 
do  an  individual  studies  program" 

That  justification  is  then  scrutinized  by  a 
committee  and  carries  a  committee  approval. 
Often,  the  committee  recommends  changes 
to  the  project  to  make  it  academically  sound, 
Brohel  said. 

Dr.  Nancy  Church,  professor  in  the  man- 
agement and  marketing  department,  served 
as  Hammond's  faculty  advisor. 

"(Church)  was  invaluable  in  helping  me  in 
the  design  of  the  program,  especially  where 
the  business  courses  were  concerned," 
Hammond  said.  "This  program  worked  espe- 
cially well  for  me  because  of  the  direction  I 
wanted  to  go." 

Sole  proprietor  of  Directions  North  Pho- 
tography, Hammond  was  able  to  mold  a 


College  didn't 
really  click  for 
Prise  ilia  Ham- 
mond until  she 
walked  into  the 
Center  for  Life- 
long Learning 
and  met  Bette 
Brohel. 

"For  the  first 
time  I  felt  like  I 
was  in  a  place 
where  things 
could  happen, 

where  I  could  accomplish  what  I  set  out  to  do 
because  of  the  structure,  the  guidance  I  re- 
ceived there,"  Hammond  said.  "By  having 
Bette  there  to  guide  me,  lead  me,  give  me  the 
next  step,  I  felt  I  was  finally  going  to  finish 
this  program.  She  never  failed  me." 

Brohel,  coordinator  of  the  Individualized 
Studies  Program  at  the  Center  for  Lifelong 
Learning,  enrolled  Hammond  in  the  pro- 
gram that  assists  students  in  designing  a 
major  of  their  choice. 

"It  is  designed  to  assist  students  T     , .    .  ,  ,  0.     i  v 

increatingamajorthatisn'tavaii-    (The  Individualized  Study)  program 

able  but  for  which  we  have  appro-  worked  especially  Well  far  me  because  of  fered  through  the  Center  and  took  off. 

priate  courses,"  Brohel  said.  ,     direction  I  Wanted  tO  20  "  "!  WaS  excited  aboul  lhc  Pro^ram;' 

The  program  appeals  to  highly  mt  ""ecuon  1  wumzu  iu  gu.  Hammond  said.  "As  an  adult,  I  have  an 

--  PriScilla  Hammond  idea  what  I  enjoy,  and  this  program  gives 

you  the  opportunity  to  apply  that  to  your 

program  that  combined  the  nuts  and  bolts  of 
running  a  business  with  the  visual  aspect  of 
photography  and  the  art  of  communicating 
with  the  public. 

As  a  result,  Hammond  holds  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  visual  arts  and  communication  in 
business,  a  degree  not  found  in  the  tradi- 
tional Plattsburgh  State  undergraduate  cata- 


log but  valid  nonetheless. 

Hammond  came  by  her  degree  by  degrees. 
She  spent  nearly  20  years  as  communication 
coordinator  at  Georgia-Pacific.  In  the  frame- 
work of  her  G-P  job,  Hammond  learned  pho- 
tography. 

"Photography  is  what  got  me  back  in 
school,"  she  said.  Although  she  attended 
college  in  the  early  1960s,  she  never  fin- 
ished. "(College  Photographer)  Robin 
Brown's  classes  got  me  going.  I  had  taken  a 
couple  classes  with  her  in  the  early  '80s  and 
realized  I  enjoyed  school.  I  also  felt  I  had 
found  something  I  was  really  interested  in  — 
photography.  But  at  the  time,  I  couldn't 
pursue  it  as  anything  but  a  hobby." 

Hammond  looked  into  a  degree  program 
from  Empire  State  College,  which  credits 
students  for  life  experiences  if  appropriate, 
"but  I  found  I  could  not  discipline  myself  in 
a  way  that' s  necessary  for  their  program,"  she 
said.  She  started  taking  courses  again,  and 
then  called  the  Center  for  Lifelong  Learning 
to  find  out  about  its  programs. 

"That's  when  I  met  Bette,"  Hammond 
said.  She  switched  from  an  art  major  to 
the  individualized  studies  program  of- 


motivated  students  as  well  as  to 
adult  students  who  want  to  ad- 
vance their  careers,  she  said.  Not  an  indepen- 
dent study  program  or  one  that  gives  credit 
for  experience,  Individualized  Studies  re- 
quires students  to  take  regular  courses  on 
campus  in  a  degree  program  designed  by  the 
student,  a  faculty  advisor  and  a  committee  of 
faculty  and  staff  who  help  guide  students  in 
selecting  appropriate  courses. 


Dr.  Skopp  Honored  at  Portrait  Unveiling 


Dr.  Douglas  Skopp,  SUNY 
distinguished  professor  of 
history,  (right)  unveils  his 
portrait  as  President  Horace 
Judson  and  colleague,  Dr. 
David  Mowry,  professor  of 
philosophy  and  director  of 
the  Honors  Center,  look  on. 
Judson,  Mowry,  Dr.  Thomas 
Moran,  provost  and  vice 
president  for  academic  af- 
fairs, and  Dr.  Kathleen 
Whittier,  associate  professor 
of  education  and  vice  chair 
of  the  Faculty  Senate,  be- 
stowed tribute  on  Skopp  for 
his  many  contributions  to 
the  college  and  the  students. 
Skopp  in  turned  thanked 
many  individuals  who  he  said  he  owed  thanks  to.  More  than  100  of  his  colleagues,  friends  and  family 
attended  the  unveiling  of  Skopp's  portrait  that  now  hangs  alongside  the  portraits  of  other  SUNY 
distinguished  Plattsburgh  State  professors  in  Feinberg  Library. 

[4] 


studies." 

A  major  component  of  Individualized  Stud- 
ies is  the  final,  or  capstone,  project  to  bring 
together  all  the  pieces  of  the  students'  pro- 
gram. 

'That  capstone  project  can  be  an  intern- 
ship, a  final  project  or  a  final  paper,"  Brohel 
said.  Hammond's  capstone  project  was  a 
brochure  and  presentation  she  calls,  "What 
Price  Liberty?"  that  depicts  the  many  contri- 
butions made  to  society  by  prominent  and 
not-so-prominent  women  and  the  liberties 
still  denied  them  by  that  same  society.  It 
encompasses  the  business,  communication 
and  visual  arts  components  of  her  degree 
program. 

"I  presented  it  (Nov.  13)  to  the  Women's 
Studies  Forum,"  Hammond  said.  Along  with 
about  200  brochures  she  had  printed, 
Hammond  designed  a  collage  of  photos 
taken  of  the  women  she  interviewed  and 
attached  them  to  a  silhouette  of  a  stooped- 
over  Statue  of  Liberty. 

"After  meeting  with  all  those  women  I'm 
even  more  convinced  that  the  project  had 
meaning,"  she  said.  "There  was  a  message 
there  and  it  was  the  way  I  chose  to  send  that 
message." 

"It  was  an  exceptional  capstone  project," 
Brohel  said.  "She  did  a  wonderful  job." 


Applied  Environmental  Science  Program  at  Miner  Center  Healthy  at  25 


For  25  years,  the  campus  at  Miner  Center 
in  Chazy  has  been  home  to  Plattsburgh  State 
environmental  science  students,  providing 
them  with  a  unique  opportunity  for  hands- 
on  field  experience. 

"Discussion  about  an  environmental  pro- 
gram at  Plattsburgh  began  with  the  first  Earth 
Day  in  the  spring  of  1 970,"  said  Dr.  Kenneth 
Adams,  a  professor  with  the  program.  What 
followed  was  a  year  or  more  of  meetings  "in- 
volving the  administration,  Miner  Center 
and  the  community  about  how  to  address 
the  issues  being  raised  as  a  result  of  Earth 
Day." 

"Gov.  (Nelson)  Rockefeller  came  rolling 
into  the  North  Country  and  made  a  surprise 
announcement  that  Plattsburgh  State  would 
become  a  center  for  the  environment,"  said 
Dr.  Malcolm  Fairweather,  director  of  the 
Center  for  Earth  and  Environmental  Science. 
"It  came  as  a  big  surprise  to  everybody.  That 
the  college-Miner  Institution  connection 
led  to  the  development  in  1972  of  the  Insti- 
tute for  Man  and  His  Environment." 

Department  personnel  were  sent  "all  over 
the  country  looking  at  fledgling  environ- 
mental studies  programs  and  institutes" 
Fair-weather  said.  "They  all  came  back  with 
ideas  and  that  was  the  beginning." 

After  a  short  time,  the  demand  on  the  pro- 
gram, was  so  great,  it  had  to  move  to  the 
Plattsburgh  State  campus,  but  the  program 
at  Miner  was  retained  as  "an  integral  part  of 
the  program  requirement,"  Fairweather  said. 

"Because  we  had  no  environmental  sci- 
ence faculty  at  the  and  made  a  surprise  an- 
nouncement that  Plattsburgh  State  would 
become  a  center  for  the  environment,"  said 
Dr.  Malcolm  Fairweather,  director  of  the 
Center  for  Earth  and  Environmental  Science. 
"It  came  as  a  big  surprise  to  everybody.  That 
the  college-Miner  Institution  connection 
led  to  the  development  in  1972  of  the  Insti- 
tute for  Man  and  His  Environment." 

Department  personnel  were  sent  "all  over 
the  country  looking  at  fledgling  environ- 
mental studies  programs  and  institutes," 
Fair-weather  said.  "They  all  came  back  with 
ideas  and  that  was  the  beginning." 

After  a  short  time,  the  demand  on  the  pro- 
gram was  so  great,  it  had  to  move  to  the 
Plattsburgh  State  campus,  but  the  program 
at  Miner  was  retained  as  "an  integral  part  of 
the  program  requirement,"  Fairweather  said. 

"Because  we  had  no  environmental  sci- 
ence faculty  at  the  time,  the  faculty  from 
individual  departments  who  had  an  interest 
were  given  release  time  to  teach  at  the  pro- 


gram," Adams  said. 
"William  'Jerry' 
Berberet  was  with  the 
history  department 
and  he  served  as  the 
program's  first  direc- 
tor." 

"I  became  in- 
volved in  the  pro- 
gram in  the  fall  of 
1974,"  Fairweather 
said.  "By  that  time, 
an  environmental  sci- 
ence faculty  was  es- 
tablished." 

"As  was  the  degree 
program,"  said  Adams,  who  himself  began 
his  tenure  at  the  college  in  1974. 

The  mandated  program  was  originally 
offered  each  semester.  However,  as  the  pro- 
gram evolved  and  state  budget  cuts  started 
hitting  SUNY,  the  program  was  turned  into 
an  option  rather  than  a  requirement  and  was 
offered  during  the  fall  semester  only. 

In  1983,  the  program  name  was  changed 
to  the  Applied  Environmental  Science  Pro- 
gram. 

The  semester  is  intensive.  Juniors  and  se- 
niors enrolled  in  the  program  select  their 
course  work  from  five  day-long  courses  of- 
fered, one  course  per  day  of  the  week.  They 
have  the  option  of  residing  in  the  dorm  at 
Miner  or  elsewhere.  Adams  said  the  major- 
ity of  participants  opt  to  stay  on  the  Miner 
campus. 

"We  have  32  students  participating  this 
semester  with  25  residing  there,"  said 
Fairweather.  "We're  essentially  full.  We  have 


Miner  Institute  and  its  surrounding  8,000  acres  of  forest  land  are  an  ideal 
location  for  students  to  study  in  the  field  in  the  morning  and  undertake 
experiments  on  specimens  in  the  lab  that  same  afternoon. 

very  healthy  (enrollment)  numbers." 

Courses  include  a  mixture  of  lab,  class 
and  field  time.  Students  can  take  intro  to 
soil  science,  forest  ecology  and  manage- 
ment, water-quality  modeling,  environmen- 
tal geology  and  field  ecology.  Situated  on 
some  8,000  acres  of  forest  land,  the  Miner 
Institute  is  ideal  for  a  program  such  as  this, 
Adams  said. 

"I  can  give  a  two-hour  lecture  in  the  morn- 
ing and  say  we're  going  out  in  the  field  to 
take  soil  samples  in  the  afternoon  and  re- 
turn to  the  lab  to  run  the  data  in  the  evening," 
he  said. 

Last  fall  the  college  had  its  1,000th  stu- 
dent complete  the  AESP  semester. 

"It's  a  special  program,  and  the  outcomes 
are  so  beneficial  to  the  students;  that's  what 
we're  here  for,"  Fairweather  said.  "It's  posi- 
tive for  the  students  and  it  makes  Plattsburgh 
State  a  little  different." 


TAC  Appoints  New  Director 


Wayne  Glass  of  Scarborough,  ME  has 
been  appointed  director  of  the  Technical 
Assistance  Center  at  Plattsburgh  State, 
effective  Jan.  19th. 

Dr.  Prem  Gandhi,  dean  of  the  School  of 
Business  and  Economics  and  acting  direc- 
tor of  TAC,  said  Glass  has  more  than  15 
years  of  leadership  and  administrative 
experience  in  business  development  ac- 
tivities. 

"He  has  administered  a  highly  recog- 
nized enterprise  development  program 
and  has  successfully  facilitated  and  imple- 
mented various  collaborative  projects.  In 
addition,  he  has  had  extensive  experience 
with  university-based  centers  of  business 


development,"  said  Gandhi. 

Since  1984,  Glass  have  been  connected 
with  small  business  development  centers 
at  Auburn  University  (Ala.),  the  Univer- 
sity of  West  Florida  in  Pensacola,  and  fi- 
nally as  the  director  of  the  small  business 
development  center  at  Washburn  Univer- 
sity in  Topeka,  Kan. 

He  holds  a  bachelor's  degree  in  natural 
sciences  from  Indiana  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania and  a  master' s  degree  in  business 
administration  from  Auburn  University. 

Glass  replaces  Allen  Lessler  who  was 
TAC's  director  for  six  years  until  he  re- 
signed last  June  and  moved  to  Florida. 
Lessler  is  currently  consulting  with  TAC. 


[5] 


Operation  Safeguard  SUNY  Draws  Attention  to 
Funding  of  Higher  Education  in  New  York  State 


President  Horace  Judson  was  one  of  several  people  to  speak  at  the  Operation  Safeguard  SUNY  rally 
at  Pittsburgh  State  Dec.  4.  The  rally  was  one  of  three  events  planned  throughout  the  day  to  draw 
attention  to  the  funding  process  for  public  higher  education.  Also  speaking  at  the  rally  were  (1-r): 
Pittsburgh  City  Mayor  Clyde  Rabideau;  Andrea  Spreter,  a  junior  political  science  major  with  a  minor 
in  women  studies  from  Baldwins ville;  Elizabeth  Lennon,  president  of  the  local  CSEA  union;  and  Jackie 
Walker,  member  of  the  College  Council.  The  morning  breakfast  was  attended  by  more  than  130  persons 
from  the  faculty  and  community.  At  the  afternoon  workshop,  which  was  coordinated  by  Al  Mihalek, 
executive  assistant  to  the  dean  of  arts  and  science,  speakers  discussed  the  need  to  draw  attention  to  the 
budget  process.  UUP  local  president  Patty  Bentley  said  15  other  SUNY  campuses  held  similar  events. 


Students  Elect  Jeff  Pray  New  S A  President 


Jeff  Pray,  a  junior  communication:  mass 
media  major  from  Yonkers,  has  been  elected 
president  of  the  Student  Association. 

In  a  recent  article  in  "Cardinal  Points," 
Pray  said  he  wanted  to  pursue  better  com- 
munications between  the  SA  and  the  other 
student  organizations. 

"The  students  and  these  student  clubs  and 
organizations  make  up  the  SA,  they  are  of 
vital  importance  and  need  to  be  heard,"  said 
Pray"  I  listen  to  students  who  voice  their 
opinion  to  me  and  I  try  to  fulfill  their  wish." 

Pray  has  been  involved  in  several  cam- 
pus organization  while  at  Plattsburgh  State. 
He  is  the  executive  vice  president  of  SA, 
member  of  Alphas  sigma  Phi,  vice  president 
of  fraternities  for  the  Greek  council,  mem- 
ber of  the  Central  Affairs  Board,  chair  of  S  A 
Leadership  conference  and  was  Kent  Hall 
dorm  council  president  last  year. 


LeSean  Redmond,  a  junior  communica- 
tion: mass  media  major  from  New  York  City, 
was  elected  executive  vice  president  of  SA. 

Also  elected  to  the  SA  Executive  Coun- 
cil were:  Stefanie  Walters,  a  secondary  edu- 
cation/biology major  from  Oswego,  vice 
president  for  academics;  Philip  Sarnoff,  a 
sophomore  political  science  major  from 
Potsdam,  vice  president  for  activities; 
Amanda  Santa,  a  junior  art  major  from 
Plattsburgh,  vice  president  for  arts;  Marc 
Antonelli,  a  junior  marketing  major  from 
Catskill,  vice  president  for  finance;  Mylande 
Zamor,  a  junior  accounting  major  from 
Spring  Valley,  vice  president  for  organiza- 
tions; Daisy  Joy,  a  junior  special/elemen- 
tary education  major  from  West  Nyack,  vice 
president  for  student  services;  and  Christo- 
pher Kennedy,  a  junior  business  major  from 
Rexford,  chief  justice  for  court  of  appeals. 


Second  Polish-American 
Christmas  Dinner  Set  For 
Dec.  19  at  Valcour 

In  response  to  multiple  requests  from 
Plattsburgh  arearesidents  of  Polish  ancestry, 
the  Polish-American  Community  at 
Plattsburgh  State  will  host  the  second  Pol- 
ish-American Christmas  dinner  on  Friday, 
Dec.  19,  from  5:30  to  8: 1 5  p.m.  at  the  Valcour 
Conference  Center. 

This  is  the  third  gathering  of  area  residents 
with  Polish  ancestry  and  individuals  inter- 
ested in  Polish-American  culture.  The  first 
dinner  was  held  in  December  1996  and  the 
second  in  March  1997.  About  40  individu- 
als, primarily  from  the  Plattsburgh  area,  but 
also  from  Montreal,  Albany  and  New  York 
City,  attended  each  dinner. 

The  dinner  on  Dec.  19  will  feature  a  dis- 
cussion on  Polish- American  History  by  Dr. 
Jaroslaw  Fedorwski  of  Dannemora,  Polish 
music  played  on  various  instruments  by  a 
Polish- American  artist,  a  video  on  contem- 
porary Poland.  Attendees  will  also  share 
funny  stories  related  to  their  Polish  ancestry 
and  eat  plenty  of  traditional  Polish  food. 

The  cost  of  the  dinner  is  $  1 4  per  person.  To 
make  reservations,  contact  Carol  Johnson  in 
College  Auxilliary  Services  at  564-2035  by 
Dec.  17.  Seating  is  limited. 


Cohen  Autographs 
Latest  Book 


Dr.  Mark  Cohen,  SUNY  distinguished  profes- 
sor of  anthropology,  autographs  a  copy  of  his 
newest  book,  "Culture  of  Intolerance:  Chau- 
vinism, Class  and  Racism  in  the  United  States." 
A  book  signing,  held  recently  in  the  Kent  Gal- 
lery of  Feinberg  Library,  was  attended  by 
Plattsburgh  State  faculty  and  staff  and  mem- 
bers  of  the  community.  


Computer  Science  Team  Takes  2nd  Place 

A  team  of  three  computer  science  students  took  second  place  in  an  Oct.  18  computer 
programming  contest  sponsored  by  the  Association  for  Computing  Machinery  in  Oswego. 

The  team,  made  up  of  Chris  Allegretta,  Shawn  Bisgrove  and  Eric  Gottlieb  and  manager/ 
coordinator  Sue  Wendt,  placed  second  among  a  field  of  eight.  They  have  been  invited  to 
compete  in  the  semi-final  round  in  Westbury,  Mass. 


[6] 


SPOTUGHT 


cstf 


Dr.  Rodney  Cavanaugh 

Carol  Frome 

Dr.  Robert  Fuller 

Don  Garrant 

Dr.  Carrie  R.  Harris 

Dr.  Patricia  Higgins 

Dr.  M.  Priscilla  Mvers 


under- 


Cavanaugh 


For  the  fourth  consecutive  year, 
graduate  special-education 
majors,  advised  and  spon- 
sored   by    Dr.  Rodney 
Cavanaugh,  associate  pro- 
fessor in  the  Center  for  Edu- 
cational Studies  and  Services, 
have  made  research  presen- 
tations at  the  New  York  State 
Convention  of  the  Council 
for  Exceptional  Children. 
Studies  conducted  by  Amy  Perretta 
'97,  and  Jennifer  Benante  97,  were 
presented  Nov.  7  in  New  York  City  and 
featured  the  results  and  implications  of 
applied  research  on  learning-mediated 
approaches  to  behavior  management 
with   students   with  disabilities. 
Cavanaugh  presented  a  model  for  in-_ 
corporating  teacher-researcher  features 
into  teacher  education  at  the  1997  conven- 
tion and  at  the  1997  Association  for  Behav- 
ior Analysis  International  Convention  in  Chi- 
cago. 

Carol  Frome,  coordinator  of  the  Claude  J. 
Clark  Learning  Center  and  instructor  in  the 
English  Department,  has  recently  had  apoem, 
"Eve,"  accepted  for  publication  in  a  forth- 
coming issue  of  American  Poetry  Monthly. 
She  has  also  been  asked  to  contribute  work 
in  two  upcoming  anthologies:  The  Practice 
of  Peace  (Sherman  Asher  Publications);  and 
The  Sojourner  Anthology  (University  of  Illi- 
nois Press). 

Dr.  Robert  Fuller,  professor  in  the  Center 
for  Earth  and  Environmental  Science,  was 
among  a  team  of  scientists  that  has  just 
completed  the  second  phase  of  an  assess- 
ment of  toxic  substances  in  sediments  from 
three  areas  of  concern  in  Lake  Champlain: 
Cumberland  Bay,  Outer  Mallets  Bay  and 
Inner  Burlington  Harbor.  The  study,  funded 
by  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  through  the  Lake  Champlain  Basin 
Program,  was  conducted  by  Fuller,  Dr.  Al 
Mcintosh  and  Dr.  Mary  Watzin  from  the 
School  of  Natural  Resources  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Vermont,  and  Dr.  John  King  from  the 


University  of  Rhode  Island,  and  others.  The 
team  focused  on  these  three  sites  because 
they  were  found  to  have  elevated  levels  of 
toxic  substances  during  Phase  I  of  the  study, 
which  examined  3 1  sites  throughout  the  lake. 

Don  Garrant,  executive  assistant  to  the 
president  for  college  relations  and  develop- 
ment, has  been  named  to  Seton  Catholic 
Central's  Hall  of  Acclaim  for  his  "outstand- 
ing contributions  in  forwarding  the  ideals  of 
Catholic  high  school  education."  Garrant  is 
a  1953  graduate  of  the  former  Our  Lady  of 
Victory  Academy  in  Plattsburgh  and  a  1957 


Frome 


Fuller 


Mvers 


Harris  Higgins 

graduate  of  Plattsburgh  State. 

Dr.  Carrie  R.  Harris,  certified  dietitian- 
nutritionist  and  director  of  transfer  services, 
was  appointed  Dec.  1  to  the  State  Board  for 
Dietetics  and  Nutrition  by  the  Regents  of  the 
University  of  the  State  of  New  York.  Certi- 
fication of  these  professionals  was  accom- 
plished in  1991  through  an  amendment  to 
the  Education  Law.  The  State  Board  for 
Dietetics  and  Nutrition  will  function  as  do 
other  state  boards  in  providing  advice  to  the 
commissioner  of  education  and  the  Regents 


on  all  matters  relating  to  education,  licen- 
sure/certification,  practice  and  discipline  of 
the  professions.  Her  appointment  ends  on 
Nov.  30,  2002. 

Dr.  Patricia  Higgins,  distinguished  ser- 
vice professor  of  anthropology,  has  recently 
published  "Adolescent  Ethnic  Identities:  Ira- 
nians in  the  United  States"  in  DANESH 
Bulletin,  1,2  (Summer  1997):  10-14,  which 
summarizes  the  keynote  address  she  deliv- 
ered at  the  DANESH  Institute  Conference 
last  October  based  on  her  1 990  research  with 
Iranians  living  in  California.  She  also  has  co- 
authored  along  with  alum- 
nus Roy  Scheller  "Disabil- 
ity and  Inclusion:  A  Summer 
Practicum  for  Undergradu- 
ates" in  Practicing  Anthro- 
pology 19,4(Fall  1997):  5-9, 
which  discusses  Plattsburgh 
State's  practicum  program 
with  Hope  Cottages,  an 
agency  providing  support  for 
Alaskans  who  have  experienced  de- 
velopmental disabilities.  Over  the  last 
three  years,  17  students  have  partici- 
pated in  the  program  that  promotes 
community  inclusion  for  individuals 
with  disabilities. 

Dr.  M.  Priscilla  Myers,  assistant 
professor  in  the  Center  for  Educational 
Studies  and  Services,  made  a  presenta- 
tion in  collaboration  with  two  graduate  stu- 
dents at  the  1997  New  York  State  Reading 
Association  Conference  on  creating 
multidisciplinary  literature  units.  Myers  has 
had  an  article,  "Passion  for  Poetry,"  ac- 
cepted for  publication  in  the  Journal  of  Ado- 
lescent and  Adult  Literacy.  In  addition, 
Cobblestone  Publishing  Company  has  con- 
tracted with  Myers  to  include  several  of  her 
original  photographs  for  an  ar-  SffilX 
tide  on  Montreal  in  Faces  Maga-  f  7^ 
zine. 


Garrant 


Plattsburgh  State  Group  Attends  BiannualACSUS  Meeting 

A  large  contingent  of  faculty,  staff  and  students  attended  the  biannual  meeting  of  the 
Association  for  Canadian  Studies  in  the  U.S.  held  in  Minneapolis  in  November. 

Attending  the  conference  were:  Dr.  Richard  Beach,  director,  Center  for  the  Study  of 
Canada;  Dr.  Jeanne  Kissner,  director  of  international  projects  at  the  Center;  Dn  Sylvie 
Beaudreau,  assistant  professor  of  history;  Dr.  Bruce  Butterfleld,  professor  of  English;  Dn 
Robert  Christopherson,  assistant  professor  of  economics;  Dr.  Nancy  Church,  professor  of 
management  and  marketing;  Ellen  Fitzpatrick,  assistant  professor  in  economics;  Dr.  Frem 
Gandhi,  dean,  School  of  Business  and  Economics; 

Dr.  Lise  Heroux,  associate  professor  in  management  and  marketing;  Dr.  Bryan  Higgins, 
professor  of  geography;  Dr,  Patricia  Hoffman,  writing  program  administrator  in  the  School 
of  Business  and  Economics;  Dr.  Martin  Lubin,  professor  of  political  science;  Dr.  Kevin 
O'Neill,  assistant  professor  in  management  and  marketing;  Matthew  Smith,  director, 
Canadian  Film  Distribution  Center;  Amy  Sotherden,  project  staff  assistant.  Center  for  the 
Study  of  Canada;  students  Chad  Tourville,  Michael  Burnett,  Candy  Crary  and  Joy  Wilson. 


[7] 


Cardinal  Sports 


Men's  Basketball  Team  Win  by 
Four  Over  Southern  Vermont 

Cory  Burke  of  Rochester  scored  16  of  his  24  points  in  the  second 
half  as  the  Cardinals  came  back  from  13  points  down  at  the  half  to 
win  62-58  over  Southern  Vermont  last  Friday.  Gavin  Mazurak  of 
Plattsburgh  continued  his  hot  shooting  with  a  7-10  shooting  effort 
to  finish  with  15  points. 

After  the  first  semester  of  play  the  Cardinals  stand  at  4-2  overall. 

The  Cardinals  will  begin  the  second  semester  of  play  on  the  road 
against  Cazenovia  Jan.  6  at  7  p.m.  They  will  return  home  for 
conference  games  against  New  Paltz  and  Oneonta  Jan.  10  and  11. 

Women's  Basketball  Team  Defeats 
Lyndon  and  Southern  Vermont 

The  Cardinals  completed  their  first  semester  of  play  with  two  more 
wins  against  Lyndon  and  Southern  Vermont  on  the  road. 

Katie  Castine  of  Champlain,  Heidi  Burns  of  Childwold,  Tara 
Butler  of  Cadyville,  and  Kerry  Chapin  North  Bangor,  all  scored  in 
double  figures  in  the  63-49  win  over  Lyndon.  Burns  and  Butler  led 
the  way  with  12  points  each. 

Jodi  Forgette  of  Plattsburgh  turned  in  the  big  performance  in  the 
63-61  squeaker  over  Southern  Vermont  with  her  first  career  double- 
double  (16  pts.,  13  rebs.).  Castine  and  Burns,  once  again,  scored  in 
double  figures  with  16  points  and  12  points,  respectively. 

After  the  first  semester  of  play  the  Cardinals  stand  at  4-2  overall. 

The  Cardinals  will  begin  the  second  semester  of  play  with  their 
first  home  game  of  the  season  versus  Skidmore  on  Jan.  7.  They  remain 
home  after  that  for  conference  games  against  New  Paltz  Jan.  9  and 
Oneonta  on  Jan.  1 1. 

Women  Swimmers  Fall  to  Potsdam,  Norwich 

Despite  some  outstanding  individual  efforts,  the  women's  swim 
team  lost  meets  recently  against  Potsdam  and  Norwich. 

The  Cardinals  fell  to  Potsdam  92-117.  Individual  winners  for 
Plattsburgh  were  Sue  Starr  of  Avon  capturing  the  200  fly  in  2:34.18 
while  Ann  White  of  Rome  took  the  200  back  in  2:23.39.  Holly  Burge 
of  Elmira  was  second  in  the  50  free  (28:41)  and  100  free  (1:00.95). 

Norwich  spoiled  the  Cardinals  home  opener,  defeating  Platts- 
burgh 117-84.  Ann  White  was  the  only  winner  for  the  Cardinals, 
taking  the  100  back  in  1:05.08  while  Holly  Burge  had  another  fine 
performance,  posting  SUNYAC  qualifying  times  in  both  the  1000 
free  (3rd  place/12: 17.22)  and  100  free  (2nd  place/1 :00. 13).  The 
women,  with  a  9-5-0  overall  record,  will  next  compete  Jan.  14  at  New 
Paltz. 


focus 


Hockey  Team  Defeats  New  England  College, 
Potsdam  For  3- Way  Tie  For  First  in  SUNYAC 

In  a  see-saw  battle  with  Potsdam  at  the  Stafford  Arena  that  saw  the 
Cardinals  jump  out  to  a  5-1  lead  only  to  be  tied  in  the  third  period 
at  5-5,  Eric  Seidel  scored  the  game  winner  with  just  1:15  left  in  the 
game. 

The  6-5  win  moved  the  Cardinals  into  a  three-way  tie  for  first  in 
SUNYAC  with  Geneseo  and  Oswego.  The  Cardinals  then  closed  out 
the  first  semester  of  play  on  the  road  with  a  decisive  5-0  win  over  New 
England  College. 

Eric  Silverman  of  Nyack,  who  assisted  the  game  winning  goal 
against  Potsdam,  led  the  Cardinals  against  Potsdam  with  a  goal  and 
two  assists. 

Defenseman  Jason  Desloover  of  Saginaw,  MI  was  the  Cardinals 
leading  goal  scorer  for  the  week  with  two  goals  and  one  assists 
against  Potsdam,  and  a  goal  and  an  assist  versus  New  England 
College. 

Brad  Erbsland  was  in  net  for  the  Cardinals  in  both  games, 
registering  his  second  shutout  of  the  season  with  a  25  save  perfor- 
mance against  New  England  College. 

After  the  first  semester  of  play  the  Cardinals  stand  at  10-3-1 
overall. 

The  Cardinals  will  begin  the  second  semester  of  play  at  home  with 
the  Pepsi  Cardinal  Classic  Jan.  2-3.  Mercyhurst  plays  Hamilton  at 
4  p.m.  and  the  Cardinals  hosts  Trinity  at  7  p.m.  The  consolation  is 
set  for  Saturday  at  4  p.m.  and  the  winners  will  meet  for  the  champi- 
onship at  7  p.m.  The  Cardinals  then  host  rival  Elmira  on  Jan.  10. 


Men  Swimmers  Lose  to  Potsdam,  Norwich 

The  Plattsburgh  State  men's  swim  team  suffered  losses  to  tough 
Potsdam  State  and  Norwich. 

The  Cardinals  fell  to  Potsdam  54-101  Dec.  5,  but  had  a  host  of  fine 
individual  performances.  Keith  Kazmer  of  Schnectady  took  home 
the  lone  Plattsburgh  victory  with  a  time  of  2:23.25  in  the  200  fly. 
James  Nowak  of  Centereach  took  second  in  the  50  free  in  a  SUNYAC 
qualifying  time  of  23.94.  Nowak  also  recorded  a  second-place 
finish  in  the  100  free  (54:51). 

On  Dec.  6,  Plattsburgh  could  not  match  the  depth  of  Norwich  as 
the  Cardinals  lost  their  first  home  meet  48-123.  Matt  Buneo  of 
Victor  won  the  200  I.M.  in  2:15.33  and  was  second  in  the  100  fly 
(59:80)  and  500  free  (5:39.08).  James  Nowak  took  second  in  the  50 
free  (24.35)  and  the  100  free  (55:19). 

The  men,  with  a  5-8  record,  are  off  until  Jan.  14  when  they  travel 
to  New  Paltz. 


ON  CAMPUS  EVENTS 


Friday,  December  19 

1 1:30  a.m.  —  The  School  of  Business  and  Eco- 
nomics Graduation  Luncheon,  by  invitation  only. 
Tickets  available  from  the  SBE  Office,  Redcay 
Hall.  Angell  Center  Warren  Ballroom  B. 

2  p.m.  — Winter  Commencement.  Field  House, 
Gymnasium. 

3  p.m.  —  CSEA  Holiday  Gathering,  open  to 
members  only.  Angell  Center  ,Warren  Ballroom 
B. 

5:30  p.m.  —  Second  Polish- American  Christmas 
Dinner,  Valcour  Conference  Center.  Tickets  $  1 4/ 
person.  Contact  Carol  Johnson,  CAS,  564-2035. 


Intersession  Hours 


Feinberg  Library 

Monday  thru  Friday  8am  -4:30pm 
Saturday  &  Sunday  Closed 
ClasedDec.24~-Jan,2 
Monday  Jan.  19  -  Closed  (Legat  Holiday) 
Monday,  Jm  26  ~  Spring  Session 
Hours  begin 


Fitness  Center 

Monday  thru  Friday  11:30- 1:30/ 4:30  - 
6:30  pm 

Saturday  (Dec.  20  & Jaa  3)  1  -  5  p.m 
Dec,  19 -Closing  af  2  ^in- 
Closed  Dec.  24-28,  Dec  3 1  -  Jan.  1 
Monday,  Jan  19  -Closed  (Legal  Holiday) 
Monday.  Jan*  26 -Resume  Normal 
Schedule  for  Spring  Semester 


[8] 


