{ 


o 
or 


CP 


Cr- 


SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  COMMISSION 
450  5th  Street 
Washington,  D.C.  20549 


FORM  8-K 

CURRENT  REPORT 

Pursuant  to  Section  13  or  15(d)  of  the  Securities 
Exchange  Act  of  1934 


Date  of  Report:  January  9,  1994 
Date  of  Earliest 

Event  Reported:  December  23,  1994 


AMERICA  ONLINE,  INC. 


(Exact  name  of  registrant  as  specified  in  its  charter) 


Delaware 


0-19836 


54-1322110 


(State  of  incorporation 
or  organization) 


(Commission  File  Number) 


(IRS  Employer 
Identification  No.) 


8619  Westwood  Center  Drive,  Vienna,  Virginia 


22182-2285 


(Address  of  principal  executive  offices) 


(Zip  Code) 


Registrant's  telephone  number,  including  area  code:  C7031  448-8700 


2is: 


Item  2  .  Acquisition  or  Disposition  of  Assets, 

(a)  BLT  Acquisition  Corporation,  a  Delaware  corporation  ("Acquisition  Sub")  which  is  a  wholly-owned 
subsidiary  of  America  Online,  Inc.  (the  "Registrant"  or  "Parent")  merged  with  and  into  Booklink  Technologies, 
Inc.,  a  Delaware  corporation  (the  "Company"  or  "Booklink")  effective  December  23,  1994,  pursuant  to  the 
General  Corporation  Law  of  the  State  of  Delaware  (the  "Delaware  Statute"),  the  terms  of  an  Agreement  and 
Plan  of  Reorganization  dated  as  of  November  8,  1994  and  amended  by  Amendment  No.  1  thereto  dated  as  of 
December  1 6,  1 994  (the  "Reorganization  Agreement")  entered  into  by  and  among  the  Registrant,  Acquisition 
Sub,  Booklink  and  CMG  Information  Services,  Inc.,  a  Delaware,  corporation  and  parent  of  Booklink  ("CMG"), 
and  an  Agreement  of  Merger  dated  as  of  December  23,  1994  entered  into  by  and  among  Acquisition  Sub  and 
Booklink  (the  "Merger  Agreement")  (which  transaction  is  hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  "Merger").  Capitalized 
terms  not  defined  herein  have  the  meanings  ascribed  to  them  in  the  Reorganization  Agreement. 

The  effect  of  the  Merger  is  that  the  Acquisition  Sub  ceased  to  exist  and  was  merged  into  and  with  Booklink,  the 
surviving  corporation.  As  such,  Booklink  possesses  all  of  the  rights,  privileges,  powers  and  franchises  and  is 
subject  to  all  the  restrictions,  disabilities  and  duties  of  each  of  Acquisition  Sub  and  Booklink,  pursuant  to 
Section  259  of  the  Delaware  Statute.  The  Merger  was  effected  on  a  tax-free  basis  as  a  stock-for-stock  merger, 
the  result  of  which  is  that  Booklink  became  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  the  Registrant. 

CMG  received  710,000  shares  of  the  Registrant's  common  stock  for  all  of  the  outstanding  common  stock  of 
Booklink  on  December  23,  1994,  the  effective  date  of  the  Merger.  Common  stock  of  the  Registrant  will  also  be 
reserved  for  outstanding  employee  options  issued  by  Booklink  and  assumed  by  the  Registrant.  No  cash 
consideration  was  paid  by  the  Registrant. 

The  following  description  of  the  determination  of  the  consideration  paid  by  the  Registrant  is  qualified  in  its 
entirety  by  reference  to  the  Reorganization  Agreement  and  the  Merger  Agreement,  both  of  which  are  attached 
hereto  as  exhibits  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  The  total  consideration  paid  or  payable  by  the 
Registrant  for  all  of  the  outstanding  shares  of  capital  stock  of  Booklink  and  for  all  options,  warrants,  rights, 
calls,  commitments  or  agreements  of  any  character  to  which  Booklink  is  a  party  or  by  which  it  is  bound  calling 
for  the  issuance  of  shares  of  capital  stock  of  Booklink  or  any  securities  convertible  into  or  exercisable  or 
exchangeable  for,  or  representing  the  right  to  purchase  or  otherwise  receive,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  such 
capital  stock,  or  other  arrangement  to  acquire,  at  any  time  or  under  any  circumstance,  capital  stock  of  Booklink 
or  any  such  other  securities  (the  "Fully  Diluted  Company  Shares")  is  an  aggregate  of  the  number  of  shares  of 
Common  Stock  of  the  Registrant  as  equal  the  product  of  (x)  the  Exchange  Ratio,  defined  below,  multiplied  by 
(y)  the  Fully  Diluted  Company  Share  Amount.  For  purposes  of  the  calculation,  the  number  of  Fully  Diluted 
Company  Shares  was  deemed  to  equal  945.250.  Each  share  of  Booklink  common  stock  issued  and  outstanding 
at  the  effective  time  of  the  Merger,  with  certain  exceptions  and  upon  certain  terms  described  with  particularity 
in  the  Reorganization  Agreement,  was  exchanged  and  converted  into  0.8875  (the  "Exchange  Ratio")  of  a  share 
of  common  stock  of  the  Registrant.  Each  share  of  the  Registrant's  common  stock  issued  or  issuable  upon 
conversion  of  shares  of  Booklink  common  stock  as  part  of  the  consideration  includes  the  corresponding 
percentage  of  a  right  to  purchase  shares  of  the  Registrant's  Series  A  Junior  Participating  Preferred  Stock,  $.01 


par  value,  pursuant  to  a  Rights  Agreement  dated  as  of  April  23,  1993  between  Registrant  and  Chemical  Bank, 
N.A.,  as  Rights  Agent. 

(b)  The  assets  of  Booklink  indirectly  acquired  by  the  Registrant  by  virtue  of  the  Merger  were  used  in  the 
exploitation  of  certain  software  technologies,  including,  without  limitation.  Booklink's  "Internetworks" 
technology,  its  viewer/browser  client  and  server  technology  and  the  application  thereof  to  the  corporate  server 
and  VAR  market,  and  the  provision  of  an  electronic  document  repository.  See  also  the  Press  Releases  attached 
hereto  as  exhibits  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  The  Registrant  intends  to  continue  such  use  of 
Booklink's  assets. 

Item  7.  Financial  Statements  and  Exhibits. 

(a)  and  (b).  It  is  impracticable  to  provide  any  of  the  required  financial  statements  or  pro  forma  financial 
information,  which  are  not  yet  available.  The  Registrant  intends  to  file  such  financial  statements  and  pro  forma 
financial  information  as  an  amendment  hereto  on  or  about,  but  in  no  event  later  than,  60  days  after  the  date 
hereof. 

(c)  Exhibits. 

1.  Agreement  and  Plan  of  Reorganization  dated  as  ofNovember  8,  1994  among  America  Online,  Inc.,  BLT 
Acquisition  Corporation,  CMG  Information  Services,  Inc.  and  Booklink  Technologies,  Inc.,  and  Amendment 
No.  1  thereto,  dated  as  of  December  16,  1994. 

2.  Agreement  of  Merger  dated  as  of  December  23,  1994  between  BLT  Acquisition  Corporation  and  Booklink 
Technologies.  Inc. 

3.  Press  Releases  dated  November  9,  1994  and  December  29,  1994. 


SIGNATURE 


Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  the  Registrant  has  duly  caused 
this  report  to  be  signed  on  its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized. 

Dated:  January  9,  1995 

AMERICA  ONLINE,  INC. 


By:  STEPHEN  M.  CASE  

Stephen  M.  Case 

President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer 


EXHIBIT  INDEX 


Description 

Agreement  and  Plan  of  Reorganization  dated  as  of 
November  8,  1994  among  America  Online,  Inc., 
BLT  Acquisition  Corporation,  CMG  Information 
Services,  Inc.  and  Booklink  Technologies,  Inc.,  and 
Amendment  No.  1  thereto,  dated  as  of  December  16,  1994. 

Agreement  of  Merger  dated  as  of  December  23,  1994 
between  BLT  Acquisition  Corporation  and  Booklink 
Technologies,  Inc. 

Press  Releases  dated  November  9,  1994  and  December  29,  1994. 


