‘4 


Australian! MUStralian Bureau of Statistics 


Statistics 


1364.0.15.002 - Treasury Model of the Australian Economy -- 


Standalone Version, Jun 1997 
Latest ISSUE Released at 11:30 AM (CANBERRA TIME) 14/10/1997 Ceased 


Summary 


About this Release 


ABOUT THIS RELEASE 
Related to: 1364.0.15.001. 


The Treasury Macro-economic (TRYM) Model of the Australian economy has been 
developed and is used within the Commonwealth Treasury of Australia. The TRYM Model 
was designed to assist in policy analysis and forecasting at the macro-economic level. It can 
be used as a tool to assist with understanding the workings of the Australian economy and 
with economic research and analysis. The Model continues to be the focus of research and 
development. The TRYM Model is available in two versions: a TSP version and a 
standalone Windows compatible version. The TRYM Database is included in both versions 
of the Model and is also available as a separate product. The standalone version of the 
TRYM product allows you to simulate the Model using a familiar Windows spreadsheet 
interface. The software assists time series analysis of data and Model results. The multiple 
document interface allows the concurrent use of time series databases and multiple data 
views and graphs; this facilitates comparison of different Model scenarios. Graphs and data 
derived from TRYM Databases and simulations can also be pasted into other Windows 
applications such as spreadsheets and word processors, or simply printed for reference and 
comparison. The Model comes with comprehensive documentation and a user's guide for 
running the Model in the interface software. The recommended PC hardware is a Pentium 
or 486DX (however it will run on a 80386 with at least 4MB of RAM, Microsoft Windows 
version 3.1 or later, and at least 5 MB of free disk space. 


Note: Also available is the TSP Version of TRYM (1364.0.15.001) and the TRYM Database 
(1364.0.15.003). 


© Commonwealth of Australia 


All data and other material produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) constitutes Commonwealth copyright administered by the ABS. 
The ABS reserves the right to set out the terms and conditions for the use of such material. Unless otherwise noted, all material on this website - 
except the ABS logo, the Commonwealth Coat of Arms, and any material protected by a trade mark - is licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution 2.5 Australia licence 


