Missouri Corporation for 


Science and Technology 
1989 Annual Report 


Se 
<< SS 


ee 


% 


PIOLLTIITS 


An eee 


Ses No 


PLO 


a 


January 1, 1990 


Governor John Ashcroft and 

Members of the 86th General Assembly 
State Capitol Building 

Jefferson City, MO 65101 


Dear Governor Ashcroft and Members of the 86th General Assembly: 


The Missouri Corporation for Science and Technology is pleased to submit to you its 1989 
annual report in accordance with RSMo. 348.255(1) Supp. 1983. 


Significant advances occurred in Missouri’s technology programs during 1989. This report 
will provide you with a comprehensive summary of the successes achieved in each of these 
programs. 


The Centers for Advanced Technology are in full operation and have attracted the interest 
and support of significant private co-sponsors. The four Innovation Centers have each 
reached major milestones in client activity and new product development. The Higher 
Education Applied Projects fund has provided support for several new projects and con- 
tinues to advance applied research across the state. The Seed Capital Program has been util- 
ized this year by investors who assisted in funding a variety of early stage technology 
opportunities. The Small Business Innovation Research Program has provided an additional 
source of funding for many research projects undertaken by Missouri companies during 
1989. 


The state’s research parks at Weldon Spring and Kansas City have been actively pursuing 
companies that are interested in locating within one of these two parks. 


The Missouri Corporation for Science and Technology is proud to be a part of each of these 
expanding programs. 


Sincerely, 


C pi 


Robert C. West 


Chairman 


Sen 


SS 
a8 Se 


Robert C. West 


Chairman 


MEMBERS 

Timothy J. Bennett 
Income Development Corporation 
Springfield, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1991 


Ruth R. Blake 
President 
Blake Development Co., Inc. 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


Jerry M. Hunter 
Director 
Missouri Department of Labor and 
Industrial Relations 
Jefferson City, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


Martin C. Jischke, Ph.D. 
Chancellor 
University of Missouri-Rolla 
Rolla, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1991 


Dixie A. Kohn, Ph.D. 
President 
Mineral Area College 
Flat River, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 
Marvin Marks 
Retired-McDonnell Douglas 
St. Louis, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


James McKelvey, Ph.D. 
Dean, School of Engineering and 
Applied Science 
Washington University 
St. Louis, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


Lowell Miller, Ph.D. 
Marion Laboratories 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1991 


Roger L. Mitchell, Ph.D. 
Dean, School of Agriculture 
University of Missouri-Columbia 
Columbia, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


James C. Olson, Ph.D. 
President Emeritus-UM 
University of Missouri-Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


William D. Phillips, Ph.D. 
Retired-Mallinckrodt, Inc. 
St. Louis, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


George A. Russell, Ph.D. 
Chancellor 
University of Missouri-Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1991 


Robert Schutz 
President of the Advanced Circuitry 
Division of Litton Industries 
Inter-Pak Electronics 
Springfield, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


George Sloan 
Vice President 
Research and Technology 
St. Louis RCGA 
St. Louis, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1991 


Tom Sowers 
President 
Tom Sowers Company 
Rolla, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


William Stacy, Ph.D. 
President 
Southeast Missouri State University 
Cape Girardeau, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1990 


Duane Sunderman, Ph.D. 
Midwest Research Institute 
Kansas City, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1992 


Robert C. West 
Chairman Emeritus 
Sverdrup Corporation 
St. Louis, Missouri 
Term Expires January 1991 


1989 OFFICERS 
Chairman, Robert C. West 


Vice-Chairman, George A. Russell, Ph.D. 


Secretary/Treasurer, Jerry Hunter 
Executive Director, Garry E. Taylor 


COMMITTEES 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Robert C. West, Chairman 
George A. Russell, Ph.D 

Roger Mitchell, Ph.D 

William D. Phillips, Ph.D. 
George Sloan 

Ruth R. Blake 

Martin Jischke, Ph.D 

Lowell D. Miller, Ph.D 


INNOVATION & RESEARCH COMMITTEE 


William D. Phillips, Chairman 
George Sloan 

Roger Mitchell, Ph.D 

Duane Sunderman, Ph.D 
Marvin Marks 


FINANCE COMMITTEE 
Ruth R. Blake, Chairman 
Jerry Hunter 


POLICY & GOALS COMMITTEE 
George A. Russell, Ph.D, Chairman 
Marvin Marks 

William Stacy, Ph.D 

James C. Olson, Ph.D 


EDUCATION COMMITTEE 
Martin Jischke, Ph.D, Chairman 
James McKelvey, Ph.D 

Dixie Kohn, Ph.D 

Jerry Hunter 

Lowell Miller, Ph.D 


CENTERS FOR ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY 
Marvin Marks, Chairman 

Duane Sunderman, Ph.D 

William D. Phillips, Ph.D 

Lowell D. Miller, Ph.D 


HIGHER EDUCATION APPLIED PROJECTS 
Ruth R. Blake, Chairman 

Dixie Kohn, Ph.D 

Robert Schutz 


wh 


John D. Ashcroft 


Governor 


History 

The Missouri Corporation for Science 
and Technology, established in 1983, has as 
its exclusive purpose to contribute to the 
strengthening of the state’s economy by 
fostering the development of science and 
technology. The Corporation emphasizes 
its goal of promoting the state’s future 
economic growth by supporting and nur- 
turing scientific research and advanced 
technology companies. Representative of 
Missouri's commitment to the future, the 
Corporation continues to advise the Gov- 
ernor and the Missouri Department of 
Economic Development on programs and 
initiatives which enhance the development 
of science and technology in the state. 

Working with Missouri’s universities 
and colleges, the Corporation continues to 
assist in meeting the research needs of pri- 
vate industry; to attract private and public 
sector investment for research and devel- 
opment; and to assist in the development 
of science education by participating in 
programs such as the Missouri Academy of 
Science annual poster presentation, and 
support for the Missouri Alliance for 
Science, Mathematics and Technology. 
These organizations provide support for 
science, mathematics and technology edu- 
cation at the elementary, secondary and 
post-secondary levels. Other educational 
activities include support of National 
Science and Technology week, which will 
be observed during the week of April 22, 
1990 by the National Science Foundation. 


Higher Education Applied 
Projects Fund 

The Higher Education Applied Projects 
(HEAP) fund, established in 1982 through 
the Missouri Research Assistance Act, is a 
challenge grant competition with a maxi- 
mum two-to-one, public-to-private dollar 
match for small businesses participating in 
the program. These projects focus on 
applied research conducted through any 
higher education institution in Missouri 
except the University of Missouri. The 
definition of an applied project is “any 
activity which seeks to utilize, synthesize, 
or apply existing knowledge, information, 
or resources to the resolution of a speci- 
fied problem, question, or issue.”’ In addi- 
tion, the Missouri Research Assistance Act 
also provides funding for the Higher Edu- 
cation Research Fund administered by the 
University of Missouri Board of Curators 
for basic research conducted through the 
University of Missouri campuses, St. Louis 


University or Washington University. 
This challenge grant competition provides 
a maximum two-to-one, private-to-public 
dollar match for small businesses, and a 
one-to-one match for large businesses. 
With the transfer of administration 
from the Coordinating Board for Higher 
Education to the Department of Economic 
Development, HEAP program guidelines 
were revised by the Fund Advisory Com- 
mittee (FAC) in an effort to improve the 
quality of proposals received. The Applied 
Projects FAC is made up of members of 


- the Corporation, the Missouri Department 


of Economic Development, and represen- 
tatives of eligible higher education institu- 
tions. It is charged with the administration 
and review of the HEAP program. This 
committee reports directly to the Director 
of the Department of Economic Devel- 
opment. It is this committee that reviews 
each proposal and forwards funding 
recommendations to the Director for final 
decisions. The FAC established two annual 


Ly 
Ly 
_. 


solicitation periods for the submission of 
proposals, January 1-February 15 and 
July 1-August 15. 

In calendar year 1989, 7 grants were 
awarded to Missouri’s higher education 
institutions and businesses, totaling 
$203,053 with a private match of more 
than $237,964. 

The FAC conducts on-site reviews of 
those projects funded during the depart- 
ment’s solicitation periods. The committee 
looks for tangible evidence that the funds 
are wisely and properly used in these 
applied research projects. Direct access to 
the intellectual and scientific resources of 
Missouri’s eligible public/private higher 
education institutions, in combination with 
the needs of our existing businesses, will 
prove beneficial for both parties. The 
benefit to business is accelerated develop- 
ment of a new product, process or service 
at a reduced research and development 
cost. 


Higher Education Applied Projects (HEAP) 
1989 


Project HEAP Match Private Match 


Development and Evaluation of Recreational $ 11,100 $ 33,740 
and Boat Trailer Guide Rails and Runners/ 
Southwest Missouri State University 


Noise Pollution Reduction in Industrial $ 35,000 $ 33,595 
Vacuums and Blowers/Central Missouri State 
University 


Development of Advanced Polymeric $ 31,633 $ 65,100 
Materials Process and High Performance 

Automotive Accessory Drive Pulleys/ 

Southwest Missouri State University 


Advanced Photoresist Materials for $ 16,100 $ 11,500 
Integrated Circuits Manufacturing/Southwest 
Missouri State University 


Using Traces of Non-Radioactive Chemical $ 41,420 $ 22,809 
Substances for Fast Oil-Consumption 

Measurements in Piston Engines During 

Continuous and Transient Operations/ 


Washington University 


Implementation of a Transportation $ 47,800 $ 41,220 
Management System/Central Missouri State 
University 


= 


Star II, A Solar Powered Vehicle/Crowder $ 20,000 $ 30, 
College 


Totals $203,053 $237,964 


Innovation Centers 

Entering their fifth year of operation, 
Missouri’s four innovation centers, autho- 
rized by the Missouri Legislature, located 
in Columbia, Rolla, St. Louis and Kansas 
City, continue to create environments of 
support and assistance for innovators and 
entrepreneurs involved in various stages of 
bringing new products or processes to 
market. The centers provide low-cost 
physical space and shared administrative 
and clerical services as well as technical, 
managerial, financial and other assistance 
to new firms, with special emphasis given 
to the needs of firms in advanced technol- 
ogy areas. 

Coordination of the four centers is one 
of the responsibilities of the Missouri Cor- 
poration for Science and Technology. The 
Corporation’s Innovation and Research 
Committee oversees the centers’ actions 
and plans and advises the Department of 
Economic Development on recommenda- 


tions for the future innovation center 
operations. 


The Center for Business 
Innovation, Incorporated— 
Kansas City, Missouri 

The Center for Business Innovation 
(CBI) is governed by a Board of Directors 
comprised of 29 prominent business and 
community leaders, successful entrepre- 
neurs, financiers and representatives from 
the University of Missouri-Kansas City 
(UMKC). 

CBI assists start-up business ventures 
engaged in key technology areas such as 
basic life sciences, telecommunications and 
computer science, and innovative techno- 
logical products and services by providing 
management, technical and financial 
assistance. Its policy is to provide “‘value- 
added”’ assistance to start up ventures 
through the provision of professional busi- 
ness services which can help to create a 
more valuable business. CBI provides 
office and laboratory space, as well as 
shared administrative and support services: 
receptionist and telephone answering, con- 
ference rooms, computer facilities, secret- 
arial services, photocopier, fax and audio/ 
visual equipment. 

The management staff at CBI offers 
tenant companies (those housed at CBI) 
and client companies (those not residing at 
CBI) combined experience in the areas of 
start-up businesses, start-up financing, 
product development, sales, marketing, 
business management, accounting, educa- 
tion, engineering, business planning and 
financial planning. The management staff 
takes an active role in the development of 
business and strategic plans for tenants, 
and is involved in the implementation of 
specific aspects of the tenants’ and clients’ 
stated objectives for development and 
growth. 

CBI is located on the campus of the 
UMKC. This locale enables CBI to link 
tenants and clients needing technological 
assistance in the University’s areas of 
research expertise with the best resources 
at UMKC. CBI and UMKC have deve- 
loped a cooperative partnership to advance 
the commercialization of technology from 
the University to the marketplace. CBI 
also works closely with UMKC’s Henry 
W. Bloch School of Business and Public 
Administration. 

CBI is situated within the area of the 
68-acre University Park at Kansas City, 
which will become a $300 million research 
park development designed to house new 
technology companies. Linda Hall Library, 
considered one of the finest scientific and 


technical reference libraries in the world, 
is located a short distance from CBI. Mis- 
souri Research Institute is also located 
adjacent to this area. 

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 
1989, the Center for Business Innovation, 
its tenant and client companies, and its 
graduate tenant and client companies 
employed 170 people; total tenant/ 
graduate/client revenues exceeded $5.9 
million with a total tenant/graduate/client 
payroll in excess of $2.6 million. During 
the past year tenants and clients generated 
$407,000 in debt financing, $1,395,855 in 
equity financing, $100,188 in royalties and 
grants, for a total of $1,903,043 in tenant/ 
client financing. 

CBI is a founding member of and main- 
tains a close relationship with the “Silicon 
Prairie Technology Association,” estab- 
lished to serve area needs in technology 
education and information exchange, and 
to promote the Midwest as a growing 
technology center. 

All of these activities support CBI’s 
mission to create jobs, stimulate economic 
development within the state of Missouri, 
and create beneficial partnerships among 
entrepreneurs, universities, government 
and private investors. 


The Center has been credited with 
assisting a diverse group of new business 
ventures in the Kansas City area. Most 
noteworthy is its assistance to the Primus 
Corporation and Radiant Systems, Incor- 
porated. The Primus Corporation is 
involved in the development of automated 
clinical blood testing instrumentation 
based upon High-Performance Liquid 


Chromatography, an advanced technique 
of chemical measurement. The initial 
application of the company’s instrumenta- 
tion will be improved blood testing, 
important in the management of diabetic 
therapy. Additional applications of the 
instrumentation are planned to improve 
clinical testing for a variety of compounds 
in blood and other body fluids. The 
UMKC Schools of Pharmacy and medi- 
cine are conducting the applications 
research. The Center assisted Primus Cor- 
poration in its successful $258,000 common 
stock offering. The Center also assisted in 
negotiating the letter of intent Primus 
Corporation recently signed with the local 
branch of a venture capital company for 
an investment of $1 million in the com- 
pany’s preferred stock. The Center also 
assisted Primus Corporation in obtaining a 
grant of over $140,000. This grant was 
received through the Missouri Research 
Assistance Act (MRAA). 

Radiant Systems, Inc. is developing a 
series of intelligent instruments based upon 
a general purpose computer platform. The 
software is based on an object-oriented 
programming environment commonly 
used for artificial intelligence applications. 
These technologies provide a highly reac- 
tive development base which can rapidly 
develop instruments for any industry. 
Radiant Systems’ initial pursuit is a pro- 
duct for use in hospital operating rooms. 
The Center has assisted Radiant Systems 
with business plan development and 
acquiring capital funds for start-up, devel- 
opment and production. 


St. Louis Technology Center— 
St. Louis, Missouri 

The St. Louis Technology Center assists 
emerging technology-based businesses 
through a series of programs designed to 
cut costs, to ease administration, and to 
develop strategic plans based on market 
research and technology assessment. Addi- 
tionally, the Center provides programs for 
financing, product development assistance, 
and managerial support. 

The Center’s clients work in the fields 
of biotechnology, factory automation, 
laser technology, health care and life 
sciences, electronics, hazardous waste 
management, and computer sciences. 

The employment of center clients 
reached 194 in mid-1989 and is expected to 
reach 220 by year end. Their aggregate 
annual payroll of $3.5 million last year 
will approach $6 million this year. This 
payroll will generate personal income and 
sales taxes in excess of the financial sup- 
port provided by the State of Missouri to 
the Center. 

Client sales of $9.7 million in 1988 was 
matched in July of 1989 and is expected to 
total $16 million for 1989. 

To date, over $18 million of private 
equity money has been invested in these 
Missouri businesses, which also have raised 
over $2 million in debt financing. 

The Technology Center provides a ser- 
ies of programs to its clients that are 
designed to meet the full range of needs 
common to new technology-based busi- 
nesses. In addition to typical business ser- 
vices, the St. Louis Technology Center 
offers the following: 


A. Strategic Planning 


The Technology Center assists its clients 
in the development of their business, mar- 
keting, and operational plans through the 
strategic planning process, which is based 
on detailed market research and technol- 
ogy assessment conducted through its Bus- 
iness Development Group. This Group is 
composed of experienced professionals and 
is staffed by five graduate students. While 
strategic planning teams that include indi- 
viduals experienced in product develop- 
ment, marketing, manufacturing and cost 
analysis are common in industry, the con- 
cept is novel to incubators. 


B. Access to Financing 


In 1989 the Center formed a $2 million 
fund to guarantee bank loans to provide 


working capital for start-up businesses that 


need the money to perform on contracts. 
This Fund was capitalized by the Missouri 
State Employees Retirement System and 
was formed in conjunction with the Mis- 
souri Corporation for Science and Tech- 
nology and the Rolla Innovation Center. 

The Center is developing a seed capital 
fund, which is expected to close this year 
and ultimately reach $5 million. The Cen- 
ter has developed excellent relationships 
with area financial institutions, venture 
funds, and local investor groups, who, to 
date, have provided the local funding for 
the Center’s clients. 


C. Product Development Support 

The Center has arranged for substantial 
product development support for its 
clients through area universities on an ad 
hoc basis. This support has included tech- 
nical assistance, equipment use, personnel 
support and laboratory use. 


D. Managerial Support 
The Center has developed a program 


for the delivery of operations management 
geared toward supporting its clients in the 
sale of their products during start-up. The 
St. Louis Technology Center has been 
instrumental in the successful start-up of 
several new companies. Its early support 
of Gold Biotechnology, Incorporated, 
which produces biological kits for 
sequencing and cloning of DNA, enabled 
the company to begin successful marketing 
of its production. Currently, the company 
is marketing three products, conducting 
SBIR-sponsored research while working 
on additional research in the biotechnol- 
ogy field. 

System Integrators, Incorporated is 
another successful start-up company which 
evolved at the St. Louis Technology Cen- 
ter. The firm, which develops electronics 
for medical instrumentation, acoustical 
signal processing, statistical process con- 
trol, and micro-miniaturization, is pres- 
ently expanding and active in designing 
custom computer systems for industrial 


process control and statistical analysis. 


* 


So 


SS 


: — 


Missouri Enterprise Business 
Assistance Center—Rolla, Missouri 

The Center at Rolla is administered by 
the Missouri IncuTech Foundation. During 
the past twelve months, the center has 
assisted more businesses than ever before, 
and broadened its client base to include all 
parts of Missouri. 

Job creation through the use of tech- 
nology is the primary mission of the cen- 
ter. To accomplish this goal, Missouri 
Enterprise offers assistance in business 
planning and support, location of financ- 
ing, market matching and consulting, and 
product development. 

Missouri Enterprise has made the actual 
application of existing technology a prim- 
ary goal. A review of the center’s clients 
reveals that assistance has been provided 
to a diverse number of Missouri businesses. 

The Center’s active client list indicates 
approximately 40 projects now receiving 
assistance in 24 communities. When com- 
bined with projects where our assistance 
has been completed in the past year, the 
innovation center's cumulative total 
represents 91 business clients in almost 40 
communities. 

The center’s best known success 
resulted from it’s assistance to Alliance 
Semiconductor Corporation, which began 
operation in AT&T’s vacant semi- 
conductor manufacturing facility in Lee’s 
Summit. Once in full operation, Alliance 
Semiconductor is expected to employ 
1,200 workers with a payroll of over $24 
million. 

Another major success was realized 
through the center’s technical assistance 
program available to local economic 
development efforts. After providing the 
city of Marshfield with consultation 
regarding refurbishing of a vacant building 
and assistance in preparation of a financial 
package and other project elements, 
Navistar International Transportation 
Corporation announced plans to open a 
plant in this location. This leading truck 
manufacturer, formerly known as Interna- 
tional Harvester, will initially hire 30 to 40 
employees with plans for expansion. 

Missouri Enterprise has become a 
partner in beginning a new loan guarantee 
fund. The Missouri Venture Partners Guar- 
anty Fund will provide up to 100% guar- 
antees on commercial loans financing the 
capital needed by new businesses to fulfill 
specific sales contracts. 

Missouri Enterprise contributed 


$100,000 of tax credits available through 


the qualified seed capital program toward 
the $2 million Guaranty Fund. This contri- 
bution has been combined with a previous 
commitment of $1,250,769 in credits used 
for the Alliance Semiconductor project. 

During 1990, job creation through the 
use of technology will continue to be a 
major emphasis. Other major objectives 
have been identified. 

They include: 1) utilization of new 
technologies to assist communities with 
problems in infrastructure maintenance 
and solid waste reduction; 2) start-up of a 
flexible, state-of-the-art metal machining 
facility; 3) improving educational systems 
resulting in an increased emphasis on 
math, science, and technology for rural 
students; and 4) investments resulting in a 
higher degree of self-sufficiency for the 
center and independence from state 
allocations. 

In addition to the Missouri Department 
of Economic Development, the Rolla Cen- 
ter is working with larger numbers of city 
managers, university extension representa- 
tives, county commissions, chambers of 
commerce, regional planning commissions, 
and professional and volunteer economic 
developers in order to make its services 
and expertise available to more diverse 
business interests. 


Missouri Ingenuity, 
Incorporated—Columbia, Missouri 

Missouri Ingenuity (MI) is guided by a 
Board of Directors comprised of members 
from the local business community and the 
University of Missouri-Columbia in con- 
junction with its Executive Director. All 
of the board members and the staff of the 
Center are diligently pursuing the mission 
of Missouri Ingenuity, which is technology 
transfer from the entrepreneurs of the 
University and the private sector to a 
commercial reality. The Center styles 
itself as a “venture assist corporation.’ 

MI specializes in product development 
and business planning/evaluation for new 
projects at the’’start-up” phase. To 
accomplish this, the Center employs and 
networks necessary business and technical 
specialists to properly prepare the entre- 
preneur for the real world of commercial 
ization. MI utilizes the resources of the 
University of Missouri-Columbia campus 
for prototype development, product 


enhancement and research. 

The Center has incubator office space 
for critical project activities, and is 
actively pursuing the establishment of a 
full-service, technology-based incubator. 


Although office space is at a minimum, 
the Center offers other services that can 
be utilized by all clients for a minimal fee. 
Services include, but are not limited to, 
accounting assistance, business planning, 
marketing plans, and sourcing of suppliers 
and manufacturers to produce projects. 
Another asset of the Center is the clerical 
support. By utilizing the latest in compu- 
ter technology and office equipment, MI 
provides numerous support services such as 
desk-top publishing, word processing, data 
base systems, laser printing and the use of 
a facsimile machine. 

Missouri Ingenuity’s staff will review in 
detail any person’s business or product that 
is within the state of Missouri. 


The majority of start-up ventures 
require a significant amount of seed capi- ! 
tal. To establish a reliable source of funds, 
Missouri Ingenuity is structuring a Seed 
Capital Fund whereby sources of capital 
may invest in a specific project and obtain 
special tax benefits. 

MI currently has a spectrum of active 
clients and projects including: high tech- 
nology radiant heating, aquaculture, agri- 
cultural by-products, and specialty elec- 
tronics. MI’s most successful client has 
developed into a $2 million operation with 
18 employees. In addition, the center has 
demonstrated it’s ability to successfully 
work with the SBIR program. 


Innovation Center 
Performance Statistics 


Annual Sales Forecast for 
All Client Companies $35.4 million 
Annual Payroll for 


All Client Companies $12.9 million 
*Total Economic Benefit to 

the State of Missouri $23.5 million 
Missouri employment 

as a result of projects 

of client companies 1,051 jobs 


Sources: 1989 Innovation Center Reports 


*Missouri Department of Economic Development 


Tax Benefit Programs 
Preece seca 98/2 SSE TMA I TRNAS aS SEPA PE HDD PAT ak EMEA TOPE OLS EEL SM Ta OR TALEAN SATIN SOT TPR SETS TE ST ET ELD RTT ES) 


15 


FD 


University Research Parks 

The state of Missouri is determined to 
establish a franchise as the “Gateway to 
the Future” by attracting millions of dol- 
lars in private development for the 
nation’s newest university-affiliated 
research parks in St. Louis and Kansas 
City. 

Missouri Research Park (MRP), a proj- 
ect of the University of Missouri in coop- 
eration with other education institutions in 
the St. Louis area, offers a campus-like 
environment on 246 gently rolling, 
forested acres at the western edge of St. 
Louis’ booming U.S. Highway 40/64 
commercial corridor. The park will offer 
tenants access to university facilities and 
educational resources, including libraries, 
information processing, conference facili- 
ties, and professional staff and faculty. 

The University of Missouri Board of 
Curators has a contract with Trammell 
Crow Company, the nation’s largest pri- 
vate commercial developer, to manage 
and develop Missouri Research Park. The 
developer will concentrate on attracting 
companies and organizations that can 
draw on the academic strengths of univer- 
sities in the St. Louis area, which include 
such fields as agriculture, computer scien- 
ces, robotics, aerospace, medicine, bio- 
technology and engineering. 

Early in the summer of 1987, ground 
was broken at Missouri Research Park for 
the installation of roads, utilities and 
drainage systems. The Missouri General 
Assembly has appropriated $4.5 million for 
construction of infrastructure as part of 
the first phase of the park’s development, 
which consists of about 105 acres. The 
installation of infrastructure is now com- 
plete, and construction is near completion 
on a building for the National Weather 
Service, the Park’s first tenant. 

Preliminary design work for a Univer- 
sity Technology Center at MRP is being 
developed by the Leo A. Daly architectu- 
ral firm of St. Louis from planning funds 
appropriated by the legislature in 1987. 
The planned center will house support 
functions for the park, including a MRP 
management office, a library/resource 
center, and telecommunication/computer 
services for the tenants of the park. In the 
Kansas City area, the University of Mis- 
souri at Kansas City, has entered into a 
joint venture with the Continental Devel- 
opment Group Inc. of New York. This 
venture will focus on the development of 
a 68-acre tract of land adjacent to the 


campus. 

Because of the proximity of research 
faculty specializing in basic life sciences, 
pharmacology, telecommunications/ 
computer science and marketing, busi- 
nesses will be able to be on the “cutting 
edge”’ of their respective areas. 

Tenants will have access to the video 
network at UMKC, which features micro- 
wave and satellite broadcast capabilities as 
well as fiber optic lines connecting the 
four campuses of the University of 
Missour1. 

Final land purchases, relocation and 
demolition will be completed by spring of 
1990. The research park will then be ready 
to commence construction of the first of 
17 buildings to have a total area of two 
and one half million square feet. Over 
5000 employees will be housed in this 
scenic area located in the heart of Kansas 


City’s country club district. 


Centers for Advanced 
Technology 

The Centers for Advanced Technology 
(CAT) program was established through 
RSMo. 378.272 in 1986. The objective of 
this program is to encourage the inter- 
action of Missouri’s academic, business, 
and industrial communities to develop and 
commercialize new technologies. These 
partnerships are intended to encourage 
new innovative technologies, create new 
businesses, revitalize existing enterprises, 
and create new jobs in Missouri. The 
CAT program is based on the view that 
economic development and growth will 
result from benefits of academic research 
and development efforts which are applied 
to business and industrial problems in a 
timely and relevant manner. Funds pro- 
vided: under the CAT program are 
intended to catalyze formation of new, as 
well as the enhancement of, existing uni- 
versity and business consortia interested in 
the development and implementation of 
innovative advanced technology. The 
CAT program is under the overall gui- 
dance of the Missouri Department of Eco- 
nomic Development. Advice on the pro- 
gram is provided by the Missouri 
Corporation for Science and Technology. 


Center for Plant Science and 
Biotechnology— Washington Uni- 
versity, St. Louis, Missouri; The Uni- 
versity of Missouri-Columbia; The 
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis 
The Center for Plant Science and Bio- 
technology, located on the campus of 


Washington University, is a cooperative 
effort among Washington University, the 
University of Missouri at Columbia, and 
the Missouri Botanical Garden. Research 
being conducted at the Center is designed 
to develop new and more disease-resistant 
crop plants. The nine projects currently in 
progress at the center include new plant 
genes, increasing the yield of soybeans, 
and the effect of drought conditions on 
various species of plants. Of particular sig- 
nificance are those projects which have 
the potential for commercialization. 

The development of the internationally 
recognized plant biotechnology program 
at Washington University is due in large 
part to the efforts and successes of the 
research group along with their collabora- 
tors at the Monsanto Company in St. 
Louis. With the support of Monsanto, 
Washington University scientists were co- 
inventors of a novel mechanism for mak- 
ing plants resistant to virus attack. This 
invention, for which patents have been 
applied, is one of the first real opportuni- 
ties for the application of biotechnology to 
agriculture. The co-discovery of this novel 
mechanism for developing virus resistant 
plants has led to an increase in grant funds 
to Washington University and an increase 
in research staff at Monsanto Company. 
Approximately ten scientists are funded 
for research projects at Washington Uni- 
versity from funding sources outside of 
Missouri, including the Government of 
France, the Rockefeller Foundation, and 
the National Institutes of Health. 

Several new business ventures may 
develop out of the discovery made by 
scientists at Washington University and 
Monsanto. These opportunities revolve 
around genetic transformation to produce 
virus disease resistance in ornamental, for- 
age and food crops. 

A modified particle gun was developed 
in the instrument shop in the Biology 
Department at Washington University. 
The gun is used to introduce novel genes 
into plants. One of the guns produced by 
the shop will be used at Washington Uni- 
versity and a second has been donated to 
the University of Missouri at Columbia. 
Several of the center’s staff are consider- 
ing starting a business to manufacture and 
market the modified particle gun for 
transfer of DNA to plant cells. The 
demand for particle guns has increased 
dramatically as scientists in academic and 
industrial research laboratories have rec- 
ognized the potential of these instruments 
to introduce new genes into cells. 17 


SISA, 


Sage 


mene Gee URE nee . 


AAA ERR 


Center for Advanced 
Technology in 
Telecommunications and 
Computer Networking— 
University of Missouri, Kansas City 

The Center for Advanced Technology 
(CAT) in Telecommunications and Com- 
puter Networking is located on the cam- 
pus of the University of Missouri at Kan- 
sas City. Companies that include AT&T, 
Southwestern Bell, United Telecom, and 
U.S. Sprint encouraged the University of 
Missouri-Kansas City to establish this cen- 
ter. It provides a unique opportunity for 
the consortium of university and businesses 
to work together by blending computer 
science disciplines with the equipment and 
media capabilities which exist on the Uni- 
versity campus. There are more than 80 
courses being offered through this pro- 
gram, 40 of which are at the graduate 
level. There have been six projects 
brought into this center during the past 
fiscal year. Three additional research proj- 
ects are to be added during fiscal year 
1990. 

CAT scientists conduct research in areas 
of general interest to the telecommunica- 
tions and computer networking industry. 
Among these are the investigation of inte- 
erated digital networks. They will study 
the fundamental design mathematics asso- 
ciated with voice and data networks in an 
attempt to unify the mathematical defini- 
tion of “integrated digital networks,”’ 
which are indiscriminate to voice and 
data. Another project involves the con- 
tinued development of a full-text, online 
information service containing the current 
literature in the fields of telecommunica- 
tions and computer networking. Not only 
is effort needed to identify appropriate 
sources of this information, but significant 
effort will also be required to customize 
the software on which to run the service 
for CAT members. Several members of 
the CAT research team are exploring the 
development of new proposals for generic 
research, preparing research proposals to 
government and private agencies, solicit- 
ing additional Consortium members and 
developing linkages with appropriate eco- 
nomic development agencies and educa- 
tional institutions. Besides noted scientists 
in telecommunications and computer net- 
working, the faculty includes prominent 
experts in artificial intelligence, in data- 
base design and development, in software 
engineering and in other academic and 
research specialties in cooperation with 


experts in other academic institutions 
across the nation. 


Missouri Manufacturing 
Research and Training Center— 
University of Missouri, Rolla, Missouri 

The Manufacturing Research and Train- 
ing Center is located on the campus of the 
University of Missouri at Rolla. The 
objectives of this center are to conduct 
research and development activities 
related to manufacturing while assisting in 
the assessment and transfer of manufactur- 
ing technology to Missouri industry. In 
addition, the center will provide hands-on 
laboratory instruction using state of the art 
manufacturing equipment. 

Presently there are twenty projects 
under way within the center. Efforts are 
concentrated on new product or process 
development. Work within the Intelligent 
Systems Center includes projects in artifi- 
cial intelligence, sensor technology, flex- 
ible manufacturing, and the development 
of new manufacturing techniques. 
Research in the Materials Research Center 
includes biomaterials, ceramics, compo- 
sites ion-implantation polymers as well as 
significant research in metals and metal 
adaptation. The Computer Integrated 
Manufacturing Center researches oppor- 
tunities for Computer-Aided-Design and 
Computer-Aided Manufacturing. Flexible 
manufacturing cells include the latest 
robotic equipment, which is utilized in a 


variety of applications. 


sSeeeioonemteananthonccceornnnnnoniconnnanannmneenes 


% 
3 
i 
$ 
; 
: 
: 
B 
$ 
: 
; 
$ 
$ 


Eo LE, COW: 


EERE 
Oh 


ropriations 


A 


Missouri Technology Assistance Programs 
Millions 
$20.000 - 
15.000 - 
10.000 - 
5.000 - 
1.000 
.400 - 
.300 - 
.100 - 


*MCSA&T receives only private donations. The corporation had a cash balance on December 31, 19839, of 


$73,700.53. 


23 


Program Resources 


INNOVATION CENTERS 
Mr. Greg Wolff 


Executive Director 
Missouri Ingenuity, Inc. 
T-16 Research Park 
Columbia, MO 65211 
314/882-2822 


Mr. Bill Reisler 
President 
Center for Business Innovation 
4747 Troost Avenue 
Kansas City, MO 64110 
816/561-8567 


Mr. Dennis Roedemeier 
Executive Director 
Missouri Enterprise Business 

Assistance Center 
800 West Fourteenth Street 
Rolla, MO 65401 
314/364-8570 


Mr. Gene Boesch 
Managing Director 
St. Louis Technology Center 
10143 Paget Drive 
St. Louis, MO 63132 
314/432-4204 


CENTERS FOR 
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY 
Dr. H. Dean Keith, Associate Dean 

Missouri Manufacturing, Research 

and Training Center 

Engineering Annex Building 

University of Missouri-Rolla 

Rolla, MO 65401 

314/341-4550 


Dr. Roger N. Beachey, Director 
Center for Plant Science and Biotechnology 
Department of Biotechnology 
Washington University 
Campus Box 1137 
St. Louis, MO 63130 
314/889-6856 


Dr. Dick Hethrington, Director 

Center for Telecommunications and 
Computer Networking 

Computer Science Department 
University of Missouri-Kansas City 
5100 Rockhill Road 
Kansas City, MO 64110 
816/276-1193 


SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION 
RESEARCH PROGRAM (SBIR) 
Jeffrey J. Kormann 

SBIR Project Manager 

SBIR/High Technology Small Business 

Development Center 

P.O. Box 118 

Jefferson City, MO 65102 

314/751-3906 


MISSOURI DEPARTMENT OF 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
Ms. Lisa Kane 
Manager 
High Technology Programs 
Missouri Department of Economic Development 
P.O. Box 118 
Jefferson City, MO 65102 
314/751-3906 


Mr. Thomas W. Barry 
Coordinator 
High Technology Programs 
Missouri Department of Economic Development 
P.O. Box 118 
Jefferson City, MO 65102 
314/751-3906 


MISSOURI CORPORATION FOR 
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Mr. Garry E. Taylor 

Executive Director 

Missouri Corporation for Science 

and Technology 

P.O. Box 118 

Jefferson City, MO 65102 

314/751-3906 


Missouri Corporation for Science and Technology — 


PRO. Box 118 
_ Jefferson City, MO 65102 
314/751-3906 


