TL a 


May 13th 


Mothers Day ? 
) 


Treat her special 


St 
see pages 10-11 Ds | 


sere WO? 


_ 


Record Number 
Donate Blood Here 


On Wednesday, May 2, the Crawford County Ameri- 


can Red Cross Blood Drive, spousored by the [igh 
School students, had the largest donor turnout in: its 
history. One hundred sixty five students, community, 
and military donors came in. 

The top donor groups were: The [07 1st Maintenance 
Co., Students, and The Crawford AuSable School Per- 
sonncl. 

Gallon Pins were awarded to: Ralph Coon, Jr., 2 
rallon,; Gary F. Bryant, 3 gallon; Eugene E. Kindler, 5 
gallon; and Clarence Burse, 13 gallon, 

There was a record breaking number of first time 
donors also: Andrew Burkley, Timothy Hough, James 
Petric, Hannah Peterson, Jeremy Beroser, Joseph Lee, 
Frank Hartwick, Scott Barker, Heather Stephenson, Jef- 
fery Edinger, Max Prosser, Gregory Sancrant, Andrea 
Mclaughlin, Raymond Carr, Brent Day. Albert Rock- 
hord, Dwayne Morse, Kenneth Heendlcy, Daniclte Waldo, 
John Beeman, Matthew Branch, Staricen Stanley, Kris- 
ten Walker, Ross Pike, Jennifer Garner, Angelo Poli, 
Heather Willoughby, Craig Neimon, lan Bolender, 
Eugene Cadarette, Richard O’Brien, Julte Jensen, Robert 
Tinker, Mickcy McKinney, Adam Mead, Heather Peevey, 
Peter Opperman, David Maule, Cheryl Johnson, Robert 
Harris, and Scott Cinciala. 

The next Blood Drive will be Wednesday, June 27. 


2 Inmates Escape 
From Camp Lehman 


Two inmates walked away from the Camp Lehman 
minimum security facility last Thursday, May 3rd. 

Michacl Lee Westmoreland, 29, from Livingston 
County, and Patrick Donald Roberson, 24, from Che- 
boygan County, were discovered missing during the 
Camp’s 11 p.m, head count. 

Westmoreland was serving 6-10 years for assault tess 
than murder and 10-15 years for breaking and entering. 
He had about two years and five months before he was 
chgible for parole. 

Roberson was serving 7-25 years for armed robbery 
and two years for possession of a firearm, [clony, He was 
not cligible for parole until January, 1993, 


Both men arc still at large. 


Law Enforcement Memorial 
Ceremony Set for May 15 


The annual Law Enforcement Memorial Ceremony 
will be held at the Crawford County Sheriff's Depart- 
ment Tuesday, May 1 Sth, at 2 p.m. Former officers and 
the public are invited tothe ceremony. Refreshments will 
be served after the ceremony, 


Avalanche — 


Crawford County's newspaper 
for 112 years 


‘Vol. 112 No. 19 22 pages _ 


Crawford 


RRR 


Ronlanche 


THURSDAY, MAY 10, 1990 


Fire Destroys At Least 50 Homes 


By Irene Pettyjohn and Jon Thompson 


The most expensive forest fire in Crawford County's history 
burned oul of control from 3:58 p.m. Tuesday, May 8, unul 
about EL p.m. when most of the blaze was contained. 

Firefighters estimated more than 50 houses burned to the 
ground in an area from Thendara Rd. northeast to Stephan 
Rridge Rd., Shaw Rd., Pine Rd., and North Dowu River Rd., 
to Bald Hill Rd. Damages were initially estimated at $2.4 
million by county equalization director Bill Borchers. At 
9:55 p.m, Governor Blanchard declared ita disaster arca. 

DNR firefighter Duane Brooks said the fire produced more 
monctary loss than the large Mack Lake fire a couple years ago. 

“Tt was the scariest fire ’ ve ever been in,” said Beaver Creek 
Fire Chicf Ed Holtcamp. “It was the most houses lve ever seen 
burn in my 27 years of firefighting,” 

Strong winds pushed the blazc northeast quickly from Pappy’s 
Trail, where the fire started. 

“This was the worst fire Uve fought because of the wind,” 
said Howard Taylor, a firefighter with the DNR crew for 15 
years, 

“In all the 37 years I’ve becn around house fires in Grayling, 
I saw more houses burn today than all the other ycars com- 
bined, “ said Sheriff Harold Hatfield, 

Only two persons were listed as injured from the fire — two 
firefighters --- as of midnight Tuesday, DNR Conservation 
officers, Sheriff deputies, and other law enforcement person- 
nel evacuated 300-400 persons from the fire arca. 

Among some of the homes that were reported as destroyed 
or close to the fire’s path were Carl Yost’s, Jay Stephan’s, Del 
Sheldon’s, Nancy and David Lemmen’s, Dick Wakeley’s, Joc 
Kuck’s , and RaxAnn Adam's. 

Officer Dean Goss, who is also the assistant fire chief for the 
Grayling City and Township Fire Dept., said the destruction 
was unbehevable. 

“J saw 14 houses buming in a single block in the Shaw Park 
area,” he said. Goss said manyhomeson Pine Road and both 
sides of North Down River Road were Jost. He satd the first 
house that burned was on Pappy’s Trail. 

“There ts no way to take an accurate count of the homes and 


_ cabins burned,” stated Goss. “We cvacuated about 300 people.” 


Large Hometown 


The fire path jumped around. One house on Stephan Bridge 
Rd. did not burn while houses on each side burned. Garages 
and outbuildings burned at Mike and Beth Wicland’s but their 
house did not burn. That happen in several places. 

Police suspect the blaze started near Pappy's Trail and a 
person burning brush was the cause. 

While this major fire was burning, other fires were blazing 
in the county Tuesday afternoon. A fire in Indian Glen's 
destroyed homes there, Three small fires were reported ncar 
Arrowhead Rd. 

Every township fire department in the county was called to 


NO ENTRY gt 
oe ey wives 2 


‘ 


«a oo 6 


M-72 Eee " 


rth. Down River Ra. . 


"! saw 14 houses burning in a 
single block in the Shaw Park 


area." 
--firefignter Dean Goss 


Continued on Page 3 


! Bald Hill Rd. \y 
_:". 
pee 
| 

| 
} va 
ef 
ect or 
} 

‘ 


Crowd Supports 


GMS Band at State Competition 


The four adjudicators atthe — the performance, 


sized that the judges were band. [They were} appreci- 


M.S.B.0.A. Middle School 
State Band Festival on May 5 
split thetr ballots, and the re- 
sult was a Il (Second Divi- 
sion) rating for the Grayling 
Middle School Band. 

The [came as adisappoint- 
nent to the large hometown 
crowd which filled the Joseph 
Stripe Auditorium at the 1:00 
p.m. performance, responded 
with a standing ovation and 
hoped foral. And then it was 
standing room only, with the 
high school band room lined 
with wall to wall people, for 
the sight reading segment 
which immediately followed 


GMS Band Director Den- 
nis Ormsbee explained the 
balloting of the judges: Of the 
three performance adjudica- 
tors, wo gave the band IT rat- 
ings and a third awarded the 
band al. The sight reading 
judge also gave the band a I. 
Had the group received their 
two I's in performance and 
their I] from the sight reading 
judge, they would have carned 
aI (excellent) overall rating. 

Nevertheless, Director 
Ormsbee was pleased with the 
Hf rating, which he said, “is 
really good at state competi- 
tion.” Mr. Ormsbee empha- 


“tough but fair.” 

“The students played music 
way above their classification 
and should be proud of their 
performance,” said Mr. 
Ormsbee. Their selections, 
two of which were different 
from the District Festival, 
included: “Spartans of To- 
morrow” by Balent, “Ameri- 
can Pioneer Suite” by Fox (a 
Class A middle schoo! piece), 
and “Exaltation” by Swearin- 
gen (from the Class C high 
school list). 

The director said, “It was 
great to see all of the home- 
town crowd out to support the 


ated, not only in the way they 
turned out for the perform- 
ance, but also all their help for 
the festival.” He added that 
many people from other 
schools commented on “how 
well the festival was run and 
atl the really finc help that was 
here.” 

Grayling was onc of six sites 
throughout Michigan to hosta 
Michigan School Band and 
Orchestra Association Middle 
School State Band Festival on 
Saturday. Of the 17 groups 
which performed here, six 
reccived I ratings, 8 received 
II's, and 3 received II's, 


Cable TV Adding 
15 New Channels 


P.O. Box 490, Grayling, MI 49738 517/348 6811 


Inside... 


OPINIONS... eerie page 4 Fifteen new channels will be added to the cable ti levision 

Mother's Day.......... we pages 10-11 system in Grayling this summer, 

COMMUNIY seers page 13 C-Tec Cable Systems of Michigan is currently rebuilding its 

TV PAge..cccccsseeeseree fae 16 system in the Grayling area, Jeff Miller, system manager, says 

23 VOATS AGO... reese page 17 the $750,000 rebuilding project should be completed by late 

HOFOSCOPE....orsevterreeseeee page 17 June or early July, 

Business Directory reenaens page 17 Miller said C-Tec is currently negotiating to add PASS as 

CrOSSWOI, errr page 17 one of new channels. PASS, a Detroit pro sports network, 

Church page... cence page 18 telecasts most of the Detroit Tiger games, ‘Tiper fans in 
Grayling started a peution drive in Grayling: LWO Yeats ago Lo 


Classltleds....... pages 19 21 
i aia — have PASS added to cable television channels, 


GRAYLING MIDDLE SCHOOL BAND Continued on Page 3 


Page 2 -- AVALANCHE - 


a ——_ ee VM 


1/3 OFF mn 


+4, © my 
, SN ~ AN. me " Pc 4 : Be . : 4 ore 
‘ nae * . ’ 
ge 
wae + 


BC6CD’WKCW, ,),’'’~WW[ 


BCBCQ.W;W«CGK 
a 


SN 


SN 
WN 


SO 


“ 


SCT 


DGG] 
WS 


\N 


Everything 
in Our Store 
at Least 


if 
OK | 
20 Corr | 


All Nationally Known Brands - All at Discounted Prices 


CW 
STK 


1116 


yds ‘ 
. \ TY. 
ag aoe . re 
+ é Pete 
‘ ‘ D. f : BG 
} : | Sa rs * { “as 
: Lary “eS : by 
é xy 4 “2 RRE:. SR : eis 
an x iat shinai ae we § es fe 
~ ay x / 
< : ‘S 


Nobody Sells our Quality for Less 


meine heitieailia 3 


WBCBCWws 


We Have Quality 
Summer Play Togs 


For Women 


FROM SUCH FAMOUS MAKERS AS 
RUSS TOGS, COS-COB, BOBBIE BROOKS, 
ROBBY LEN, COLE & DEE CEE & 

NORTHERN ISLE AND AS ALWAYS - 


20% OFF 


NATIONAL SUGGESTED RETAIL PRICES. 


6] ] KH 


AX 


QQ \D">] Gi 


Wp W~W WV 


\\ 


WA“ 
UW 79w Wye: v® vw vw e ©"; °° vee °v°'vU ww " 


AQ ,\w 


DTCKWAR WANRK\U’\ 


i. rs . ST. “f FF = 
 - ok <P: Rea es ’ oe 
ae a SRE me 2 eae fo 
: . ok Na Ret ae Te i 
c¢ Rosy, Rea ‘ ees ae pat | : 
Nive & “Sf DNS : t : - <a 
oy AS 7 : MR a oe a , F j . ra 
bn S , OA a Laer + ry 7S 
“48 aan ft a + ‘ 


4,  @@ eS} Remember Entire Lot of Free Parking in the Grayling Mall = 
oS _ Remember Ene Lotot Free Panng ne Greying alae 


a 
PA 
; x 


VOLUNTEER RECOGNITION--Senators Connie Binsfeld (right) and John Engler presented the 
Mercy Hospital Auxiliary with a copy of the Senate resolution recognizing the efforts of Michigan's 
volunteers. Accepting on behalf of the auxiliary is Donna Pflum, Volunteer and Community Services 
Coordinator for Mercy Hospital. 


a 


HOSPITAL AUXILARY RECOGNIZED--Mercy Hospital held it Sth Annual Recognition Tea at 
the Holiday Innon April 23. Pictured are members of the hospital auxiliary. Back row (I-r); Marie Taylor, 
Ruth Cruz, Jean Riemer, Coye Taylor, Lillian Dickey, Margaret Buckner, Martin Buckner, and Donna 
Pflum, Volunteer and Community Services Coordinator. Seated: Sue Brenner, Evelyn Schuraleff, Betty 
Stephenson, Doris Payne, Rose Gunderson, and Helen Leykauf, 


MERCY AUXILIARY VOLUNTEERS--Back row (1-r): Rita McCormack, Olga Zrebski, Barbara 
LaDronka, Treva Engel, Margaret Hayes, Bernice Mauren, Shirley Schonhoff, Rita Sarrault, Herb 
Westlake, Millie Fairgrieve, Joyce McParland, June Ryan, Gladys Tufts, Rita Schlehuber and Mae 
Blackmer. Seated: Angela Kirkum, Frances Olsen, Sr. Alice Marie Morrow, RSM, Gertie Westlake, 
Martha Taylor, Charlotte Radzwion, and Dorothy White. 


GRAYLING FUELGAS' 


MOTHER'S DAY GRILL SALE! 


FRIDAY & SATURDAY ONLY 


Prices From $29.95 - Models By Broilmaster, Arkla, 
Charmglow « Free $20 Fill-up On Most 
Models « Replacement Parts In Stock For Most Mcdels 


NEW REOI-FRAME 


FACTORY ASSEMBLED + READY TO COOK IN MINUTES 


901 savare incr COOKING AREA 


+34,000 Btu Twin Stainless Steel Burner With 5 Year 
Limited Warranty 

-Porcelain Coated Cooking Grid, Dishwasher Safe. 
‘Charm Rok Briquets - Heat Up Fast, Less Flare Ups. 
‘Rotary Electronic Ignition 

‘Front & Sides Shelves Fold Down For EasyStorage 


NOW ONLY 


$2 39 Ee apa Fuel Gas & Appliances 
Item #5243 d VEGAS 525 N Grayling Rd. 


(517) 348-6241 
Monday - Friday 8- 5, Saturday 
OB to 12 


No More Frustrating 
Nut & Bolt Assemblies 


ee ee ree ene Si heEEN w 


te Ce ner NR ets WPI EE ee pr, 


an evens, 


ZS IS SRAOR NSN 


Crawford 


County 


Avalanche 


Page 3 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


ee eae 


renin ei Sree 


River House Receives 
$2,500 from Weyerhaeuser 


On Friday, May 4, Kathi 
Esckilsen, an employee of the 
Weyerhacuser Corperation, 
presented a check for $2,500 
rrom the Weyerhacuser Foun- 
dation to Ferne A, Farber, 
Director of the River House 
Shetter Program. Farber indi- 
cated that these funds will be 
used to implement an Out- 
reach Prograrm within the serv- 
ice countics of Crawford, 
Ogemaw, Oscoda, and Ro- 
scommon, 


The goal of the Outreach 
Program is 10 reach tore vic- 
tims of domestic violence by 
placing River House staffand/ 
or trained volunteers tn out- 
reach offices throughout the 


communities served, 

River House, which serves 
approximately 100 adults and 
140 children per year, hopes 
lo reach an additional 25 
families this year through this 
outrcach effort. Basic serv- 
ices for victims of domestic 
violence include: 24 hour 
crisis line and shelter, food, 
clothing, transportation, medi- 
cal treatment, individual and 
group counseling, child care, 
advocacy and assistance with 
reporting crimes to the police 
and prosecutors. 

River House provides resi- 
dential and non-residential 
services, Its crisis line num- 
ber ts (517) 348-8972: collect 
calls are accepted. 


Chamber Hosts Tourism 


Informational Program 

A special “Eggs & Issucs” program on Thursday, May 
10, 8:30 a.m., at the Copper Kettle Restaurant, Grayling, 
will feature Executive Director for the Gaylord Conven- 
tion and Tourism Bureau, Paul Beachnau. 

The topic of the “Eggs & Issues” program is dedicated 
to the Tourism industry both locally and regionally. 
Beachnau will also discuss tourism trends and how they 
directly effect ihe Grayling Community and our geo- 


graphic region, 


The cost for the Breakfast program is $6 for Grayling 
Chamber of Commerce Members and $7.50 for non- 
chamber members, Moncey will be collected at the door. 
Reservations are needed, and can be made by calling the 
Chamber office at 348-2921, by Wednesday, May 9th. 


New Channels .... 


Continued trom Page t 


Included in the new channels are MTY, the Comedy 
Channel, The Discovery Channel, and Cable . 


Currently, C-Pee has about 1,500 subscribers in the Gray- 
ling areca, says Miller, and about 44 miles of cable lines. 
Depending on the final price of the rebuilding project, C-Tec 
may also be able to go ahead with some expansion, Miller says 
the next two areas C-Tec is looking to expand into are the 
AuSable Trail arca and the Beaver Island area. 

With the addiduon of 15 more channels to the Grayling 
system, Miller says the basic rate of $1 fa month will increase 
to probably $16.50 a month, 


Fire Destroys. 


Continued from page 1 


fight the fires and Kalkaska County put out the Arrowhead Rd. 
fires. The DNR called in other area units and Camp Grayling 
unils also assisted. 

‘The strong gusting winds did not die down until some rain 
mercifully swept through the area about 8:30 p.m. But before 
the winds died down, they shifted from the southwest and the 
path of the fire went back to some areas it had missed before 
and more houses were lost. 

Problems firefighters ran into were crown fires (fires racing 
among the tops of trees), power lines falling, and propane tanks 
exploding. About 1,400 Top of Michigan customers fost power 
because of downed lines. 

Beth Wieland was at her home trying to gather upa few items 
before the fire came. 

“Ht came down the power line and it sounded like a train 
coming,” she said. “The heat and smoke were so bad we had to 
leave.” ‘ 

Police had trouble evacuating people. Some were refusing 


unc 


PROBATE COURT TEEN JURY--These GHS students served as jurors 


$2,500 DONATION--Kathi Esckilsen, 
presents a check for $2,500 from the Weyerhaeuser 
Foundation to Ferne Farber of the River House 
Shelter Program. 


left, 


Local Weather 


Courtesy of the City of Grayling 


Snow on 
Date High Low Ground 
5/1 49 37 
5/2 57 21 
5/3 63 21 
5/4 §2 32 
5/5 60 30 
5/6 57 30 
5/7 17 35 


Extended forecast courtesy of the U. S. Weather Service in 
Houghton Lake: 

On Wednesday there will be considerable cloudiness with a 
chance of showers and thunder showers. The high will be 70 and 
tow willbe 50, Thursday’‘s likaly to have a few showers with the 
high near 60 and the low in the mid 40s, Friday and Saturday will 
be dry with Friday’s high to be near 60 and low in the 30s. 
Saturday’s high will be [n the 60s and low In the 30s. 


to leave the danger area. Other people were causing problems 
at the roadblocks and one man was arrested for carrying a 
weapon. As the firefighters began getting a handle on the blaze, 
reports of people looting in the evacuated areas started coming 
into the central dispatch office at the sheriff dept. 

People throughout Grayling pulled together during the trag.- 
edy. Motels offered lodging; restuarants and grocery stores 
offered food and items to firefighters and evacuated people. 
Camp Grayling opened its doors to the evacuated people for the 
night. 

As the Crawford County Avalanche went to press carly 
Wednesday morning, DNR firefighters were planning on 
meeting at the Command Center set up at Duane LaMotte’s 
Down River Pines store at the intersection of M-72 East and 
Stephan Bridge Rd. early Wednesday morning for the next 
step. Firefighters were concerned another dry, windy day 
would start up smoldering fires. . 

The next issue of the Avalanche will publish detailed DNR 
accounts of property loss and maps showing the burned areas, 


' 


ist 
b 


HE A) RRP EN OEE 
last week in Probate 


Court. ‘Their questions to the juvenile and parent were both relevant and insightful. Judge John Hunter 
said he is very satisfied with the program which began this month. Pictured are: (back row I-r) Holly 
Madowisz, Heather Stephenson, Andrea McLaughlin, Jeff Pernie, Pat Gizinski, and Anne Petrosky, 
Frontrow: Scott Englund, Jennifer Lochner, Chery! Walters, Brian Shepherd, John Jurkovich, and Kristy 


Reichelderter. 


Fe ee Ee ee a ee Ee CAS Se SE ee ON RA (mare se ea Nee een ae ee Ree ee Se eee meee Caer eae eae ee Oe eee vy eee eee = 


Page 4 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


Letters to the Editor 


Your views are welcome on the Opinion Page. Letters may 
be typed or handwritien but please double space or use every 
other fine. 

Every letter must be signed and an address or phone number 
should be included. Letters will not be published without the 
author’s name. 

Letters are limited to 500 words. 

The opinions expressed in the letters and columns on this 
page are solely those of the writer and do not reflect the views 
of the Crawford County Avalanche. 


Let's Talk About It 


By Joe Murphy 


If you missed the Campbell’s Ozark Country Jubilee 
Show at the High School Auditorium on the 28th of April 
you missed some great country music. The Grayling 
Lions and Lioness Clubs sponsored it. The members of 
the show displayed a great deal of talent and put ona heck 
of a good show. But I guess Grayling isn’t ready for top 

- rank talent. The attendance was very poor and I'm afraid 
ihe clubs took a real bath in bringing them here. Folks 
complain that there is not much entertainment in Gray- 
ling, yet fail to support efforts to correct that situation. 
Come on fotks, when efforts are made to bring some top 
rank talent into town, let's support them. 

To the young to look ahead fifty years seems like an 
ciemity. To the old looking back fifty years is as if it were 
yesterday. [ can look back fifty years and recall conver- 
sations word for word. It is strange how common every 


Count On Usto Care 


By Dennis J. Renander 
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Mercy Health Services North 

In 1776, John Adams cried out in discouragement, “Is 
anybody there? Does anybody care? Does anybody see 
what I sec?” [express a sentiment not of discouragement, 
but rather of challenge, opportunity, and the desire to 
share what I sce are the selected issues and concerns that 
we at Mercy Hospital will face in the future. 

In arecent report titled “The Fiscal Health of Michigan 
Hospitals,” Peter Pratt, a consultant in the health care 
industry, writes, “In the last three years 150 of the 
nation’s 6,000 plus hospitals have closed their doors, 12 
in Michigan. One-half of Michigan’s 102 hospitals with 
fewer than 150 beds lost money last year. On any given 
day over one-third of the state’s 335,000 hospital beds do 
not necd linens changed. No patient has lain there. If the 
economic yardstick of manufacturing (percentage of 
plant capacity in production) were applied to hospitals, 
the trade associations would scream ‘depression.”” 

“The patient (Mercy Hospital) is not terminally ill and 
in truth has performed well. Few industries have buffeted 
more radical declines in sales volumes, drastic changes in 
the products they deliver and tighter regulations, deterio- 
rating prices and stronger competition, all while provid- 
ing a public service to which most people believe they 
have the right.” 

Some 30 years ago a medical sociologist, Anne Sum- 
mers, wrote a book entitled, “Health Is A Community 
Affair.” For many years I have cited her book and am in 
agreement, but I have notably added that in recent years 
health care has become more of a “political affair.” It 
needs to remain a community affair. 


Notes from the Woods 


By Nancy Lemmen 


Well, I’m getting a little excited and a little nervous. 


Guest Column. 


eee 


day events stick in your mind: and more momentous 
events may be forgotten. Computers are wonderful 
machines, but only that, the human brain ts mighty hard 
to beat. Some folks say the computers arc superior to our 
brain but they seem to forget the human brain invented it. 
Sounds, smells, cic. not encountered in many years can 
bring instant recognition of them. Faces notseen in many 
ycars somehow ring a bell, maybe you can’t put a name 
to the facc, butsome how you know you knew them atonc 
‘time, The human brain is one of the wonders of tife. 

I don’t think we give animals credit for their brains as 

muchas we should. They scem to be alot morc intelligent 
than we give them credit for. I know fora fact that horses 
and dogs have a good memory. I sold a saddle horse and 
it Was gonc about six years, the man had to sell it, and 
called me asking if}’d buy it back. ] sure did and we went 
up near Gaylord to get it. I rode the horse back home, with 
no signals from me the horse went right to our back door 
and stopped. I was surprised that he remembered that 
long, 

I’ve told about how our cow dog would walk through 
the barn once when we brought them in in the fall. They 
were the the cows that would calve in the spring. The 
steers and young cattle stayed outside in an open shed. 
The dog knew from that one trip which went into the bam. 
She would stand at the barn and let just the ones that 
belonged in the barn past her. Then she would go into the 
barn and if any were in the wrong stalls she got them back 
where they belonged without any help from us. In fact, 
she remembered where cach cow went better than we did. 
Don't sell animals short, they must have a pretty good 
brain. 

Lhave often wondered about dreams thatanimals have. 
I think most of us have seen dogs having dreams; | 
wonder how far down the chain goes. Do the lower 
animals have their own little dreams also? 


Crawford Aualanche 


County 


Established 1878 


Member of the Michigan Press Assoclatton 
and the National Newspaper Association 


Jon Thompson Irene Pettyjohn 
Editor & General Manager Reporter - Photographer 


Kim McClain 
Advertising Director 


LeRoy H, Papendick 
Plant Production Supt. 


Alice Galvani Debbie St. Germain 


Business Office Advertising 
Linda Golnick Sharon Lynch 
Business Office Composition/typesctting 


Todd Pfaff 
Composition/circulation 


Office: 110 1/2 Michigan Ave., Grayling 
Mail Address: P.O. Box 490, Grayling, MI 49738 
Telephone: 517/348-6811 


Subscription Rates 
One year for subscriber in Crawford, Roscommon, Kalkaska, Otsego, 


and OSCOdA CONICS circ eee ee es creer eeni neater ites $12.00 

One year outside these COUMUCS oie terrier rien $13.00 

Ome year local senior CHi2ONS..... cece es HEOO 

Onc year non-local senior CHUZONS. eee iret $12.00 
(USPS 1346-860) 


Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Grayling, Michigan, 49734, 
under the ActofCongressof March 3,191, Published each Thuredsy at 1001/2 Michigan 
Ave., Grayling, M1 49738 For changing your address send 1.5, Post Ommice Form 3879 
to Crawford County Avalanche, P.O, fox 496, Grayllng, MI 49738. 


Book Club is meeting next Saturday and we’re discuss- 
ing a book I nominated — ‘Cold Sassy Tree” by Olive 
Ann Burns. 

Being at Book Club when they discuss my nomination 
is a bit like taking friends to my favorite Oriental restau- 
rant or convincing them to see the Swedish film I loved 
next time we're all ina city. Now that I’ve dragged the 
whole party to my favorite spot, I start worrying. 

What if they don’t love the hot and spicy soup as much 
as Ido? What if they don’t find the film as magnificent 
as! did? The burden of the cvcning’s entertainment rides 
heavily upon my increasingly jittery shoulders. 

But actually I think they will like “Cold Sassy Tree,” 
the story of a widower in asmall Georgia town around the 
turn of the century. To the dismay of his family and the 
townspeople of Cold Sassy Trec, E. Rucker Blakeslee 
causes a minor scandal by remarrying immediately after 
the death of his wife, 

When I read it originally two years ago, I found it one 
of those books that begged to be discussed with fellow 
readers. But I couldn’t find anyone who had read Burs’ 
story of the stubborn iconoclast who violates a small 
town’s rigid and traditional social and religious norms. 

Sol went to Book Club on nominations night and told 
them that even if they didn’t choose to discuss “Cold 
Sassy Tree,” they must read it anyhow because I wanted 
to talk about it. 

Well, it made the final cuts, along with such titles as 
“The Joy Luck Club” by Amy Tan, “This Boy’s Life” by 
Tobias Wolff, and ‘Crime and Punishment” by Feodor 
Dostoevsky. Next Saturday we discuss it. I hope the 
others like it as much as I did. ; 

Throughout the seven years that I have been a member 
of Book Club, some of my nominations have been win- 
ners. Perhaps my most inspired one was “Beloved” by 
Toni Morrison. We had a far-reaching discussion that 
moved us from the novel’s late 1880's rural setting to the 
inner cities of today, where — a full century after its 
abolition — slavery’s ugly tentacles still reach out to 
adverscly affect the black family unit. 

And likewisc, others of my nominations have been 
weaker, Perhaps my biggest disappointment was ‘East 


Almanac 
By Cc ard Milliman 


THE CITY OF DETROIT is having its trouble these 
days, including problems with its incinerator, expiration 
of a special city tax on utilities, organizing and financing 
its school system, to list just a few. 

To help solve its problems, Detroit increasingly has 
turned to the state for help. Lately, it appears, state 
assistance has been a bit more difficult to secure. The 
utility tax, for example, was somehow permitted to 
expire, and Detroit officials expected automatic renewal. 
Instead, the legislature gave the city a rather rough time. 
For another, the city’s incinerator was shut down by state 
officials because it didn’t meet certain standards of 
pollution control, Tltoak some negotiating to get it going 
apain, 

Why is everyone picking on Detroit? A long article in 
a recent Sunday edilion of Detroit's combined daily 
newspaper pointed to “Detroit-bashing” as a popular 
sport. 

The same article explored even more devious fears — 
specifically, that oulstaters arc practicing racism against 
the city. 

* * * 

BLACK LEGISLATIVE Icaders see anti-Detroit 
sentiments growing. 

“The Detroit-bashing for a while was on more subile 


i 


‘Anti-Detroit’ not 
always ‘anti-black’? 


In the 1950s, we had little government involvement in 
health care, and yet, by the 1960s the state and federal 
governments were major players as a result of the enact- 
ment of Medicare and Medicaid. By the 1970s, everyone 
was predicting the passage of national health insurance. 
By the beginning of the 1980s, however, we were expe- 
riencing more health care competition and more govern- 
ment involvement as a means of controlling health care 
inflation. At the end of the last decade, the government 
was controlling our overall health care system, and yet, at 
the same time the number of uninsured grew to over 37 
million people in the United States. Today in Michigan 
there are one million uninsured. 

What the role of government will be in the 1990s 
remains open to speculation. If the health care system 
follows the current trends, it will continue to unravel in 
terms of financing while costs will continue to grow with 
no major changes seen in the federal government’s in- 
volvement. But this scenario isn’t likely to happen. 

Instead, the two biggest players in health care services, 
government and large corporations, will increasingly 
control their expenditures by placing greater burdens on 
individuals. That action in turn will not only lead to a 
higher percentage of total health care paid by individual 
patients, but a greater number of uninsured as more and 
more people go without insurance all together. It is a 
living political issue. Perhaps we are caught in a web not 
of our own making. 

Many rural communities today are facing the indigni- 
ties of subtraction, for there is something about a rural 
hospital that can cure more than physical ailments, and 
that can go a long way toward restoring the citizens to 
their sense of civic conscience. Having Mercy Hospital 
here gives a feeling of respect. A community that loses 
its hospital has one less thing to take pride in. 


of Eden” by John Steinbeck. Dave was lobbying for a 
discussion of “The Grapes of Wrath.” But I remembered 
being extraordinarily moved by the religious themes and 
symbolism of “East of Eden” when | read it in high 
school. 

I thought that the discussion turned out just fair. And 
immediately, I regretted that we had not chosen 
Steinbeck’s masterpiece work about the disastrous Okla- 
homa dustbowl of the 30s and the Joad family’s doomed 
attempts to find economic and spiritual salvation in Cali- 
fornia. 

And so it goes with nearly all the books we have read 
in the past seven years. Sometimes a book I dislike upon 
the actual reading stimulates a fine discussion, while 
other times a wonderful story leads to a fairly mediocre 
one. 

Yet that is one of the many beauties of Book Club. I 
find it exciting to get together on one Saturday a month 
to exchange our wide variety of reactions and opinions 
and ideas on whatever book the ten to twenty of us just 
read. 


Anotherof Book Club’s strengths is that it validates the 
act of reading. While there are evenings when I really 
should be doing my laundry or going through the mail, I 
can justify curling up on the living room couch to read 
because “I have to get this novel done for Book Club.” 

Also, Book Club has expanded my reading repertoire. 
I figure that, of the nearly 70 titles we have read for 
discussion since 1983, roughly 90 percent of them were 
books J had not yet read. 

Furthermore, perhaps 75 percent of them were books! 
never would have chosen if left to my own tastes and 
interests, What a toss to have never read ‘Sophie's 
Choice” by William Styron, “The Color Purple” by Alice 
Walker, “Blue Highways” by William Least Heat Moon, 
“Stones for Ibarra” by Harriet Doerr, “Night” by Elie 
Wiesel, “War Day” by Whitley Streiber and James 
Kunetka, “Mr. Bridge” and “Mrs. Bridge,” both by Evan 
Connell. 

Sometimes a particular writer catches some members’ 
fancies and they read more by and about that person. 
Dave and Teri became our resident experts on Emest 
Hemingway when we discussed three of his novels in 


terms,” according to Rep. Nelson Saunders of Detroit, 
chairman of the Legislative Black Caucus. “I see it now 
rearing its ugly head and becoming more visible.” 

Veteran Detroit lawmaker Rep. Morris Hood con- 
curred: “I have sensed over the last year and a half, a 
greater degree of reluctance to support Icgislation that 
helps Detroit.” 

But is reluctance to vote for Detroit measures — or 
“Detroit bashing” — outright racism? Many Detroit 
leaders see it as such. 

Mayor Coleman Young, a legislative leader before 
becoming mayor, is inclined to charge racism in many 
issues, Closing the incinerator, predictably, received the 
racisin label from Mr. Young. 


Arthur Johnson, president of the Detroit branch of the 
NAACP, claimed anti-Detroit Icgislative sentiment is 
rooted in racism. 

“Most fair minded observers sce Detroit-bashing as a 
very serious problem, with deep roots, that has been 
going on for a long time,” said Mr. Johnson. “It is a 
problem at its core of racism against the city. It is a 
problem ultimately that threatens everyone, and every- 
one in the end pays.” 

Sen, David Holmes, who has been around the capital 
for the last 30 years or so, said racial overtones have 
always been present. 

“Detroitis a key word for anti-black,” said Mr. Holmes. 
“We in the Legislature who live in Detroit have come to 
accept that.” 


To the citified eye, the hospital’s main facility may not 
look like anything special, merely a modest building set 
in the middle of rural America. But to most of us within 
this area, it is an institution for all seasons starting with 
prenatal care and continuing through the entire life cycle. 
In the interim, each family in some way is likely to make 
use of Mercy Hospital, I don’t think we can survive 
without a hospital. 

The blessings of Mercy Hospital extend well beyond 
the city limits as the institution provides service to all the 
residents of Crawford and the surrounding counties, 
Sooner or later we will touch just about everyone in the 
counties we serve. We are very much a part of this 
community and our social mission is paramount. 

In the 1970s, it was the belief that health care was a 
right for all; and excess overshadowed cost containment 
and quality. In the 1980s, cost cutting came to over- 
shadow excess and quality. Inthe 1990s, efficiency must 
mean more than cost cutting. Efficiency must mean 
balancing cost containment, quality, andexcess. Ifhealth 
care remains a right, any imbalance must favor quality 
and access. 

Mercy Health Services North, Mercy Hospital/Gray- 
ling stands ready to work with the communities in the 
development of a community health care system that 
truly is a ‘community affair” and not a political affair. 
We are working with and through our state and federal 
legislators to assure there is an appropriate balance. The 
success of Mercy Hospital and its community health care 
system truly rests with the local consumers and providers 
of health care services as we strive for that balance to 
assure access and quality. 

Yes, John Adams, we at Mercy Hospital do care and in 
keeping with this year’s National Hospital Week slogan, 
you can “Count On Us To Care.” 


1987. Patti and I enjoyed “Oh, Pioneers!” so much that 
we each bought several other Willa Cather books, as well 
as two different biographies of the American regional 
author. 

We attempt tocross genres by including drama, poetry, 
science fiction, mythology, biography, nonfiction, and 
philosophy. A challenging 90-page treatise by Freud, 

. “Future of an Illusion,” stimulated a lively yet friendly 
discussion of religion at the December meeting in 1985. 

While our selection method is relatively free and un- 
structured, we try to include world authors as well as 
Americans, classics as well as contemporary fiction. 
Whereas Dave nominates modern fiction by Jack Ker- 
ouac and Jim Harrison, Tom convinced us to try “The 
Plague” by Camus, and Judy had us read “Heart of 
Darkness” by Conrad. 

Every individual member is important and we each 
seem to assume adifferent role. Bill serves as a model for 
the non-directive discussion leader. Paul keeps us to our 
inch rule (all books must be paperback, no more than one 
inch thick). Susan provides the literary analysis. 

We move our meeting place from house to house, and 
the meetings themselves are models of civility. Cigarette 
smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages are banned, in 
an effort to keep the air and our minds unpolluted. While 
we tend to congregate for small talk around 8:00, the 
official discussion is started by Barb, Book Club’s leader 
and founder, a half hour later. 


Then the discussion facilitator (usually the book's 
nominator) takes over and we continue until 10:00. We 
eat dessert and drink coffee or teaand chat a while longer. 
Each meeting is an oasis of civilized behavior in a world 
normally filled with noise, action, chaos, and discord. 

We meet for the final time before summer this month 
to discuss the aforementioned “Cold Sassy Tree.” Then 
we have the next three months to tackle William 
Manchester’s mammoth work, “The Last Lion,” a biog- 
raphy of Winston Churchill. Dave has already finished it 
and recommends it highly to me. 

I just look forward with great anticipation to begin 
reading itin June, Picking upanew book has always been 
a delicious experiénce for me. Thanks to Book Club, I 
don’t deny myself that regular pleasure. 


* * * 


DOES THIS MEAN that everyone who opposes 
measures tailored to help Detroit is necessarily racist, and 
anti-black? Not in my book. 

Outstate, there is a large residue of resentment against 
Detroit, because many outstaters believe Detroit gets 
special treatment from state and federal governmont, and 
this special treatment — not accorded their hometowns 
Outstate ~- COst oulstaters extra tax dollars, 

Tax dollars for the ridiculous downtown Detroit people 
mover are resented. Tax dollars to bail out Detroit 
schools are resented. Tax dollars in ever higher and 
higher welfare costs, most of them winding up in Detroit, 
are resented. Tax dollars for the Detroit Art Institute and 
Detroit museums and the Detroit zoo and other elements 
of the so-called “Detroit equity” package are resented. 

Is Mayor Coleman Young resented outstate? Yes... but 
not because he’s black. He's resented because outstaters, 
too, are aware of the police fund scandal and rising 
Detroit crime and drug problems, and deteriorating De- 
troit neighborhoods, and limousines and jet planes, and, 
yes, the paternity suit. Outstaters are aware that Mr, 
Young blames his failures on the media, or the state, or 
President Reagan, or racism, The truth in the eyes of 
many Outstaters is that Mr. Young, simply put, is not an 
effective mayor; and the resultis resentment by outstaters 
who believe they are paying unjustly for his failures, 

Is there anti-black sentiment in mostly-white areas 
outstate? Yes, there’s some... but not nearly as much as 
Claimed by those who shout “racism” at every turn. 


peel. tele a 


scouts Race In Annual 
Pine Wood Derby 


The Cub Scouts held their 
Annual Pine Wood Derby at 
the February pack mecting. 


Winners were: Ist place Wolf- 
Brian McCurdy, Ist place 
Bear-Troy Kellogg, Ist place 
Ist year Weeblos-Jerry Ro- 
man, who is unable to attend 


Trophy winners are: Ist place 
trophy-Troy Kellogg, 2nd 
place trophy-Chip Mason, and 
3rd place trophy-Jamie Cas- 
sell, 

District Pinewood was held 
May Sth at Wurtsmith Air 
Force Base, Oscoda. Local 
Troop 979 also competed in 


Page 5 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


The Grayling Hotidisy Onn: 
er Speak Easy Saloon 


PRESENTS 


PAT PAULSEN 


THURSDAY, MAY 10TH, 


District Pine Wood, so 2nd spring camporce for trophies 
place TravisJohnson willrace on Knowledgeable Scouting 
in his place. Overall Pack Skills, 


SHOW BEGINS AT 8 PM 


Pat Paulsen is taking time off from his 
1992 bid for the White House just to 
appear at the Grayling Holiday [nn 

. aN MEMORY eoneay Hour. fee few) fos his 

Dori Jean [Lovely - May 15, ; comedy routines on the Smothers 
1988. el Brothers television shows, he's also a 
Whon God calls litue children oem popular star of film, theatre, and live 
to dwell with Him above, comedy performances. 

We mortals sometimes ques- 

‘tion the wisdom of his love; TICKETS ARE $10.00 
Perhaps God tires of calling 
the aged to His fold, 

So He picks a rosebud, before 
it can grow old. 

God knows how much we 
nced them, and so He takes 
but few, 

To make the land of heaven 
more beautiful to view. 
Believing this is difficult, stall 
somchow we must try. 

The saddest word mankind 

knows will always be good- 


; = i ii 7 sar i ” cara ae “ee — oes Saeeres bye. gl 


~ PINE WOOD DERBY WINNERS--Shown 


NT. 


KECBVG RSG 
Ek 


* 
euuy 
Fes usany 


IN ADVANCE 
SALES ARE LIMITED oO 


Warm-up comedian, Jim Hanna is a four year veteran of the comedy club 
circuit and his hilarious material and comfortable, conversational style entertain 


& audiences across the cour ‘ry ys 


Join Us For Dinner Before The Show In Our 


Woodside Dining Room e& Terrace 


Diners Receive 1/2 OFF ADMISSION TO THE SHOW 
SELECT FROM OUR MENU OR THESE SPECIALS: ba 
YOUR CHOICE FOR ONLY $7.95 each—snrimo Primaveria, 
served over Pasta; Broiled Shrimp Scampi, served over Rice: Grilled 
Chicken Breast, with Pineapple Satsa; Walleye Fillets. broiled or deep tried: »- 
Grilled Prime Rib 8 oz. 


All of the above dinners are served wilh Woodside Salads, choice of potato or vegetable, 
ané warm honey buns. os 


| Live Entertainment With Risque immediately Following The Show 
_In The Speak Easy Satoon 


3% Hotiday Sun 


2650 S. Business Loop 1-75 ¢ Grayling, Michigan 49735 — 
(517)348-7611 1-800-292-9055 


So whena little child departs, 
we who are Icft behind, 
Must realize God loves chil- 
dren, angels are hard to find. 
Grandpa and Grandma 


MAGNETIC SIGNS 


LOYALTY DAY CEREMONY--Members of VFW Post 3736 met in front of the courthouse on 
May Ist to commemorate Loyalty Day. 


348-6811 


Inte ret ible Bargains 


SEND MOM A BOUQUET 
AS FRESH AS SPRING. 


for Vay 


ak Hips 
nt Aad 


| AGAINST 
| MOISTURE 
4 DAMAGE 


We're waiving all fees on our Home Equity Line of Credit and our Homeowner's \ 


Loan between now and June 30. 
And unlike some banks, there are no annual fees with these home equity 


loans, either. 


Once you apply, you'll get an answer on your loan in as few as 24 hours. All you 
need to do is provide us with the necessary information, including the existing 
balance on your mortgage, which you can get from your mortgage lender, and 
vour home’s assessed valuation. 


HOME EQUITY 


You can borrow anywhere from $5,000 to $100,000, depending on the equity in 
your home, And Old Kent gives you two choices: 
Home Equity Line of Credit — offers the flexibility of writing a check 
whenever you need a loan. 
Homeowner's Loan — offers the comfort of a fixed rate, fixed term loan. 
Both offer advantages over many credit cards or installment loans: 


As Adverised 
(iy 
Nananal 


230A110-6° WHILE 
17210,10,16991,12 SUPPLIES 
{AST 


Ace Waterproof 
Sealer - Gal. 


Transparent penetrating seoler. for 
use On OOH. concrete and ROsony, 
5 Gal. Can. 32.45 


_ ACE. 


Stmday GAID Fos 


The FTD® Spring Garden™ Bouquet. 
Mother's Week is May 7-13. 


Florals 


; 348-7423 
“927 Michigan Ave. * Downtown Grayling 
1M Tradernarks of FID € 1990 F1D. 


Main 
Street 


McLean's 
Hardware. 


Mon.- Sat. # ASA To 3: = PTA 


BIRTHDAY | 

CELEBRATION 

The month of May at 
SPIKE'S 


Friday Ni ights - Fish Fry 
HAND BATTERED Yop ITH FRIES, COLE SLAW & ROLL 
SERVED FROM 5 PM TO 10 PM 


$3.95 PER PERSON 


ALL oe CAN EAT 


COME IN, AND WA 
ATCH Tui — 
& GAMES” "HE FUN 


Bobbe Morley 
CUSTOM 
DRAPERIES 


Mini Blinds 
Pleated Shades 
Verticals 
Woven Woods 
Bedspreads 
Upholstery 
Carpet 
Wallcovering 


Because of our 
Volume we can 
offer SALE PRICES 
EVERY DAY on 
Many Products. 


¢ Lower interest 
¢ Lower monthly payments 
¢ Tax deductible interest — consult your tax advisor. 


Old Kent offers low interest rates, too. The current Annual Percentage Rate 
is 144% or 12%, depending on your line of credit. The APR may vary, but will 
not exceed 18%, and can go as low as 10%, 


You can apply for your home equity loan right over the phone by calling 
{-800-FON- KENT: And to make it even easier, if you don’t live near an Old Kent 
office, we'll close the loan ata place that’s convenient for you. 

So don't wait. Call Old Kent and say yes to this special no-fee, no-wait 
offer --- loday. 


APPOINTMENTS 
DAYS, EVENINGS & 
WEEKENDS 


621 -6131 


SPECIAL ae sii 


..We Being H All To You! 


CX OLD KENT 


‘ 
Common Sense Uncommon Service 


f=} No tine pent, either! 


\tnoth 


anean 


UNDER THE WATER TOWER 
GRAYLING, 348-7113 


AMA ntti 


® OLOKENT fANK 1990 
lr et 


Page 6 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


Glen's Market Raising 
Money for Special Olympics 


Glen's Market employees 
will be participating in a 652- 
made Bike-a-thon from Muni- 
sing to southem Michigan and 
back to Gaylord May 4-11, 
The Bike-a-thon will leave 
Grayling at Lf a.m. Wednes- 
day, May 9, and local em- 
ployees will be riding 3! miles 
to Houghton Lake. 

Spectal Olympic athlete 


Jerry Whaley, 20, of Gray- 
ling, will be joining Glen's 
Marketemployees riding from 
Grayling to Houghton Lake. 

The Bike-a-thon is part of a 
fundraising effort by Glen’s 
Market for Michigan Special 
Olympics. The Summer 
Michigan Special Olympics 
will be at Mt. Pleasant May 31 
to June 2. 


No stretch. 
\ No 


No squint. 
bifocals. 


It you've been putting off that eve 
check-up because youre atiaid youtea 
in tor bitucals, do (tus, Come in toduy 
aNd 08% 5 about Vantux® “ineless” 
eyegluss lanses Varilux dre better 
than bifocals at ali drstances -- lor 
reading. forin between, and tur 
away So come in s00n, Weill give 

you J rea Vantux demonstration 

that'th really Open your eyes 


FAMILY VISION CARE 
WILLIAM DEAN, O. D. 


Open daily 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.-Sat. 9 a.m.-noon 
517/348-3211— 904 Michigan Ave.—Grayling 


VARILUX’ 


The cat Chace Over bihocass 


Glen’s Market in Grayling 
will also be sponsoring a hot 
dog stand and a bake sale from 
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday and 
Saturday, May 11-12 to heip 
raise money for the Arca 4 
Special Olympic athletes. A 
car wash will be held 11 a.m. 
to 5 p.m. Saturday, May 12. 
Cost to sponsor each athlete is 
$45 and donations willalso be 
accepted. Call Nancy Persing 
at the Grayling Glen’s Mar- 
ket. 


Obstacles to 
Healthy Families 


Discussed Here 

The Bishop’s Task Force on 
Substance Abuse will mect 
Wednesday evening, May 16, 
at7:30p.m. inthe Board Room 
at Mercy Hospital. Father Jim 
Mausolf will present a video 
by Terry Kellogg entitled: 
“Intimacy in Recovering 
Family Relationships.” 

Terry Kellogg is a pioneer 
in Family Systems therapy. 
In this video he discusses how 
the recovery process opens up 
family members to renewed 
intimacy and openness with 
each other. Obstacles to 
healthy family relationships 
are explored and aids pre- 
sented in removing these ob- 
stacles. The process of af- 
firming healthy family sys- 
tems is explained. The public 
is welcome. 


Are You Ready For A Brake Job? 


Get a complete brake job now—and get up to $20 
"BONUS BUCKS" and a Lifetime Warranty* 


weet 


AS ONE OF 


Roscommon Elementary School students. 


personally to each student. 


Rodger Anger at the Grayling Elementary School. 


St. Mary’s Plan 
Style Show 


On May 17th 


The Styte Show given by 
the Catholic Women’s Club 
of St. Mary's Church in Gray- 
ling at the Family Center, 
Spruce Street, will be held oa 


Weyerhaeuser Distributes 1750 Seedlings 


THE SEVERAL activities to celebrate Earth Week, 
employces of the Weyerhaeuser Company Structurwood Mill distributed 
1750 Douglas fir and blue spruce tree seedlings to Grayling, Frederic, and 
Frederic students are shown 
above. Rodger Anger, Weyerhaeuser General Manager, Ray North, and Kent 
Ruby, Operations and Maintenance Team Members, distributed the seedlings 
Planting instructions went along with the 
specially packaged seedling, to assure their care and growth. 


owt woul = 


ee) 
af <F Bikes y | 
Les aS ra a nel & ae: 

SAWN wien oe 
‘[SRAPHIC oA ig 


for the desi r 4 or 
production of: - 
ogos ° letterheads « . brochures 
, brint advertising « signs & | 
banners 


TODD PFAFF. 
PO BOX 330, GRAYLING 
MICHIGAN 
-817-348- 1232, 


your celle mney he Aoewarded to ine 


Rialto Theatre 


GRAYLING, MICHIGAN — 348-5948 


-——— Fall & Winter Schedule —— 
Thurs.-Fri.-Sat. — 7:00 & 9:00 
1 Show Sunday 7:30 
Admission $3.00, Children under 12 $1.75 


Thursday thru Sunday—May 10-13 


BEST PICTURE 
BEST ACTOR — Morgan Freeman 
BEST ACTRESS — kssica Tandy 


Shown is 


COMING SOON: Tango and Cash; Teenage Ninja Turties; 
Hunt tor Red Act; Ernest Goes To Jall. 


Now is the time to have it 
done—for your family’s safety 
and for the “BONUS BUCKS" 
you'll receive from any ap- 
proved installer who uses 
genuine NAPA Brake Parts. 
Have your brakes serviced 
during this limited time promo- 
tion and you'll receive 
"BONUS BUCKS" worth 20% 
of the retail cost of the brake 
parts purchased—up to a $20 
maximum. You can use your 
“BONUS BUCKS" in the fu- 
ture to purchase NAPA parts 
or NAPA will send you a check 
for the 20%, up to $20. 


Make an appointment now for 
a complete brake job ata 
NAPA AutoCare Center. 

You'll drive away with new con- 
fidence in your brakes, 
covered by a Lifetime Warran- 
ty and valuable "BONUS 
BUCKS” in your pocket. 


For details see your NAPA 
Brakes installer. 


‘Limited Lifetime Warranty on pans 
purchased. 


Siz. 
(HAPA) Brakes 


Moore’s Automotive 


210 James Street 
Grayling 
517-348-6731 


NAPA AutoCare Centers - We Install Quality NAPA Parts 


2 PIZZAS _ 
10 TOPPINGS 


os ec ycsars 
the Tee oelble: 


Pep os 


italian Saveaas 
Onions 
Green Peppers ( 
Mushrooms 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Tomatoes 
Binck Olives 


GRAYLING 
348-2828 


SOUTH I La 7$ BUSINESS Li BUSINESS LOOP 


Little Caesars rs Pizzal Pizzal 


Two great pizzas! One low price: 


2 MEOIUM PIZZAS 


99 


Pius Oy 
WHERE APPLKABLE 


‘ )) Offer volid on 
Pirzo!Pirz0® or 

Pon! Pon! ™ thre 5/27/90 
ot portkipating stores. No 
topping substitutions of 

deletions. ies 


Thursday, May [7, at 7 p.m. 


Price is $4.25 including: des: 
sert and coffee bar. Tickets 
are on sale at Ivie Girl and 
Kathleen Plus, Mac's Drug 
Store, Weaver's Gifls, or at 
the Church office 9 a.m. to 2 
p.m, Tickets are also avail- 
able at the Family Center on 
Sunday after both masses, For 
more information call 348- 
8189, 348-2331, or 348-7217. 


Church Hosts 11th 
Annual Spring 
Pancake Supper 

The Grayling congrega- 
tion of Reorganized Church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter Day 
Saints will sponsor their 14th 
annual spring pancake supper 
Saturday, May 12th, begin- 
ning atS pan, and going until 
they run out of pancakes or 
customers. Begun in 1980, if 
was conceived as a eclebra- 
tionoftheend of ourlong cold 
winters and in appreciation of 
the retum of warm weather, 
sunny skics, and that untival- 
led delicacy of our area, maple 
syrup. 

The supper features, 
AuSable Buttermilk pancakes, 
fresh scasoned pork sausage, 
fresh maple syrup, and many 
othercondiments and gamish- 
ments, beverages, and calo- 
rics. 

All of the food is do- 
nated by the local conprega- 
tion, and all of the proceeds Is 
donated to the World Hunget 
Fund. The Grayling Saints 
have been able over the years 
tomakc over $3 OO) available 
to needy people in the world, 
Everyone welcome, donations 
will be accepted. Vhe church 
is located on North Down 
River Road directly opposite 
1-75 exit, 


nual fee, 


four years at med school 
a 28-foot motor home 
an in-ground pool 
a two-car garage 
or any number of things 


ON THE HOUSE. 


With our Golden Credit Line Home Equity, only your imagination and 
the equity in your home limit the major purchases you can make. 

So you can add on that guest room, buy that time-share condo in 
Tampa, or build that stronger stock portfolio-on the house. 

And along with all these opportunities, you'll have easy access to your 
Golden Credit Line Home Equity, with your special Golden Credit Line 
Checks. You also have the advantage of having your credit line secured 
by the equity in your home (in which case, the interest may be tax- 
deductible on your federal return). All this with no membership fee or an- 


See a Grayling State Banker about Golden Credit Line Home Equity 
today, Orcall 348-7631. And See what you can get on the house. 


Citizens Banking Corporation » 


348-7631 — Downtown — In The Mall — Member F.D.1.C. 


Page 7 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


| We the undersigned residents of Crawford 
'County, wish to express our support and | 
appreciation of Camp Grayling and all other | 
‘employers that contribute to the continuing 
prosperity and growth of a hate 


nee — 
st he Vn vim 
| hit ry oe 


Maas. = Se Sp 
Ge Blo wke | Laks fault pi tp 
ay Oho wht” i ALD fi 


ia > tac 
CY 


ar a RE 


2 ee tren meeene arehe 


SOhaze.. MI, Pie Ag! = Cpe. |. rapes , 


Paid for by area businesses end citizens In supportic of Camp Grayling: 


Page 8 


VAAL ALEGRE 
ee: 


7” 
C0376 
” 


ERR 


SERRE 


Y 
_ y 
2 


Oi: 
, Ve 


-- AVALANCHE -- side MAY 10, 1990 


N 


Ry) ports 


ef 


Vikings Hold Off West Branch 10-9 


With the tying run on sec- 
ond and the winning run on 
first base, Joel Mack struck 
oulthe batter for the third out 


GHS BASEBALL--The GHS Varsity 1990 squad: (back row, L-R) Jeff Pernic, manager, Kar! 
Mead, Tom Cox, Brian Palmer, Jim Abney, John Jurkovich, Aaron Millikin, Matt Branch, and coach Fred 


Wolcott. 


Nicholas, Tim Hough, and Jim Liberty. 


Camp Grayling Range Firing 


Range finng will be conducted at 
Camp Grayling in the following ar- 
cas: 

The Small Anns ranges located 
west of Lake Margrethe, north of 
Howe Road, cast of the gas pipeline, 
and south of Portage Creek. Firing 
will bepin on 11 May and ceascon 13 
May. 

‘The Smatt Amns ranges located at 
\rnowhead Road in Kalkaska County, 


DAVIS JEWELERS 


Aincthyst 
Blue Topaz 
Pearl 
Sapphire 
Atl with Diamonda 
values te £00 


ei 4 we 
if eGR: 
GEM STONE 
RINGS 
al 


indices Pearl or 
CHAIN ENHANCER 
with Genulne Blue Topaz 
or Aintheyat & Dlamonda 
Ref $450 


Firing will begin) on 11 May and 
cease on 13 May. 

Range 20, Demotition Range lo- 
cated south of Howe Road, west of 
the Crawford County Line, north of 
Daniels Road, and cast of the gas 
pipeline. Firing will begin on 1] May 
and cease on 13 May. 

Range 30 Complex located north 
of Nonh Down River Road, cast of 
Jones Lake Road, south of County 


- Spring 
Sbiakaraes 


REGISTER TO 
WIN A FREE 
TRIP FOR TWO! 


RING 


Ref $140 


RING 


Ref $400 


a wait aS 
gE NWS 
Yellow ’ ae 
* erty yas 


6 DIAMOND DOME 


‘99" 


3 } DIAMOND NUGGET 


*199 


Road 612, and west of Damon Truck 
Trail, Firing will be from 8 a.m. 
(daily) to three G3) hours after sunset 
(daily) from 09 May through 16 May. 

The Range 40 Complex, Air to 
Ground, located nonh of County Rd. 
612, cast of Guthrie Lake, south of 
Old State Rd 618, and west of County 
Rd. £97 Clwin Bridge Rd). Firing 
will be from 8 a.m, (daily) lothree (3) 
hours after sunset (daily) from 09 


GIF’ 


$- od 
Coenen ho rs ae a aN 


ee Sky 


Lt. One cari 


Rif §- 


DIAMOND EARRINGS 


ae 965" 
mt fia  FQG® 
mie 5G 
iad ee . 4999" 
a et . 'g4y™ 


Register 
To WinA 
. FREE 
$500 JEWELRY WARDROBE 
‘CERTIFICATE 


Sale 


IN TIME FOR 
MOTHER'S DAY 


WIN A FREE CRUISE ON 
CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES 


Yodlow Gold 


-f DIAMOND RINGS 4° 


tw. Cie ted 
Ret $1006 ac. exe Cw. 
F9QQ ee EE St 
ee » '289 


Lt. 12 carat .40 to 45 tow. 


$499 


(front) Mike McMillan, Joe LaForest, Mick McKinney, Joel Mack, David Teddy, Scott 


May through 12 May, and 14 May 
through 16 May. 

‘The Range 40 Complex, located 
nornh of County Rd. 612, east of 
Guthrie Lake, south of Old State Rd. 
618, and west of County Rd. 197 
(Iwin Bridge Rd). Firing will begin 
on 09 May and cease on 13 May. 
Howiver and tank main guns will 
cease firing three (3) hours after sun- 
sel, 


"1S carat 


DIAMOND PENDANTS 


Of carat 


Rae. #49” 
eee 19g” 
Reeve O79" 
acer *499% 


Ve EN tie 
Had Gon 


ra 


to give Grayling a 10-9 win 
against West Branch Thurs- 
day, May 3. 

Mack got the save, pitching 
the last one and a third in- 
nings, and Jim Abney got the 
win. 

Brian Palmer was the hit- 
ting leader forthe Vikings with 
two home runs and three 
RBI's. Mack, Mick McKin- 
ney, David Teddy, and Tim 
Hough added two hits cach. 

The Vikings went ahead 6- 
3 after four innngs. West 
Branch, who had a 13-6 rec- 
ord, scored | inthe fifth, Gray- 


ling scored twice in the sixth, 
and West Branch scored twice 
inthe sixth fomake it8-6. The 
Vikings scored 2 more in their 
half of the seventh, West 
Branch scored 3 in their lastat 
bat before Mack got the final 
strike out. 


West Branch took Grayling 
5-3 in the second game of the 
doubleheader. Mack and Ab- 
ney each had two hits. Teddy 
pitched and took the loss. 
Viking coach Fred Wolcott 
said Grayling was playing 
bettcr defensively against 
West Branch, 


Against Petoskey at Cor- 
nell Field May 1, the Grayling 
defense let down in 15-1) and 
14-4 losses to the unbeaten 
Northmen. 

The Vikings led Petoskey 
4-Oafter three innings and then 
errors and poor defense gave 
Petoskey five-run and cight- 
run innings, 


Teddy led the Grayling at- 
tack with two hits and three 
RBI's. Mack had two doubles 
and Scott Nicholas had two 
hits in the first game, Abney 
took the loss pitching the first 
four and two-thirds innings 


Little League Season Starts 


The 1990 Grayling Little 
League season will officially 


* get underway, Monday, May 


14th, with play starting at the 
Major Leaguc Level. The first 
game will be at 5:15 p.m, 


- between Mac’s Drugs Store 
/ andMcDonald’s. At7:15 p.m. 


Millikin’s ~~ will 
Weyerhacuser’s. 


play 


This year, the first ball will 
be thrown out by the Crawford 
County Undersheriff, Tom 
Coors, who is also the presi- 
dent of the Grayling Youth 
Boosters Club. The first ball 
ceremony will be prior to the 
first game at approximately 
5:00 p.m. 

230 children have signed 


up to play litle league base- 
ball this year, an increase of 
approximately 25 percent over 
last year’s enrollment. 

Other games this weck are 
as follows: 

Major League 

Wednesday, May 16th-- 
5:15-Grayling State Bank vs, 
R & H Sports. 7:15-Weyer- 
hacuscr vs, Mac's Drug Store. 

Friday, May 18th-~ 7:15- 
McDonalds vs. Grayling State 
Bank. 

Minor League 

Tuesday, May 14th— 5:15- 
Holiday Inn vs. Rochette’s 
IGA. 7:15-Glen’s Markct vs. 
Litlle Cacsars. 

Thursday, May 16th— 
5:15-Mercy Hospital vs. Davis 


LIKE GRANDPA--LIKE GRANDSON—On 
the second day of trout season 11-year-old Clark 
Wilcox caught a 19" brown in the East Branch. On 
the same day his Grandpa, “Curly” caught a 19" 
brown in the Main Stream. They were the first fish 
caught by each fisherman this season. 


Commission on 


Dining Senior Style Menu 
& Activitics: 

Monday, May 14- 10:00- 
Pxercises: 2:00-Finglish Class; 
§:00-Dinner (Stuffed Green 
Peppers). 

Tuesday, May 15- 11:45- 
Songbirds & Kitchen Band al 
the Meadows of Grayling; 
4:30-Salad Bar, 5:00-Dinner 
inhonor of the Shawono boys 
- (Spaghetti & Meatballs); 
5:30-Program-"Top Hats,” 

Wednesday, May 16- 
10:00-Quilting; 12:30-Swim- 
mercize; 1:00-Stag Party; 
2:00-Swimmercize; 5:00- 
Dinner (Hamburgers); $:30- 
Cards Night. 


Jewelry. 7:15-Rotary vs. K of 
& 


*Note home tcams listed» 


first. 

The league invites every- 
onc to attend these games and 
supportarca youth. The league 
is still collecting Glen’s green 


Join the 


Team McDonald's 


Now Starting Employees 
At $3.95 per Hour! 


Higher pay for fast food experience. 
FREE employee meal benefits. 

. "Food of the Month” for employees. 
Flexible scheduling. 

FREE Uniforms, 


: WEST OF F 1-78 ON FOUR MILE RD. 


3 ‘RAT TOROL HOLES 


SOREN GKOM 
TE PUBLIC 


Driving Range - Lounge - Food 
Reasonable Rates 
Tee Times by Reservation | 


FAMILY MEMBERSHIPS $550 
Includes Students through high school 
SINGLE MEMBERSHIPS $375 


memberships limited to 125 
Good 7 days a week 


GOLF LESSONS by PGA PRO 
BOB KOUTNIK | 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 


INOW OPIN 
CALL OR WRITE 


FOX RUN COUNTRY CLUB 
6825 W. FOUR MILERD., 
RT. 1, BOX 1667, GRAYLING, MI 49798 
517- 348-4343 


GRAND OPENIN @ 
OPIN OWS 


Saturday, May 19 
from 2pm to 5pm 


and Teddy pitched two and 
one-third innings allowing ore 


Nit. 
Inthe second game, Palmer 


started and was lagged with 
hus first loss ob the season, 
Cox and Mack also pitched, 
Palmer Ied the hitting with 
two hits, including a home 
run. Abney had two hits and 
two RBI's, 

The Vikings played Che- 
boygan here on Tuesday, May 
8, travel to Boyne City Thurs- 
day,and play ata West Branch 
tournament Saturday. Next 
Tuesday they travel to Sault 
Ste. Maric. 


May 14 


slips and these can be taken to 
participating area banks, and 
also at the concession stand at 
the Litde League Field. If 
thercarc any questions regard- 
ing Little League, you can 
contact, Bud Morgan, 348- 
2548, 


‘299 


Chase not pahaded 


i K Yellow Gotd 
CHAINS | 


Detailed training program: 

Job variety. 

VIP Cards. 

Crew activities to meet people from other 
communities and make new friends. 


Chet pe 

BLUE TOPAZ en Bg 
OR ql 

AMETHYST AND | Ref ro? 81 gg 

CUBIC ZIRCONIA 


Thursday, May 17- 2:00- 
Science Class, §:00-Dinner 
(Spanish Rice). 

Priday, May 18- 11:30-Lov- 


° 


Ref 8150" A 


9 o" 


WAN AMON H 


Dare a 


\ 

= 

i : . RINGS ‘lis’ Satetite: 12:00-Di 
- aaa Bracelet It Suan ue pee he eeane 10. Crew member of the month awards. 
} a ay ‘ ‘ : wey Vi : 11. Bi h ; i 

: . 18" Herringbone Chain nee ‘269 1:00-Attorncy from Wim, Bnday Minton employees 

. *\ Goth guia tygn at “<a Carey's Office Here, Walk- ; 

— po" : f N fenuine RUBY and nate ' : 1 

N Hr Hernghne Chin not ox cca eee DO cote All that's missing is you! 

YN Wel BIND OS 159% RING f an fe may i . IM RC ¢ f= 
XX % 7" Triple Herringbone 1289 wee wt AARP Potluck. Everyone 

y if Bracelet Me she at : is tie 

= Me 149% } melee Bring a dish to N 0 ii) H | A { NG 

: ¥) 18" Triple Beveled pass. 


Herringbone Chain 


Pick up an application today 


YK ws twas 20” WI Navia | 236 MICHIGAN AVE. - ose, euing 
- Fy sold Hope Chai Oe nt, | GRAYLING, MI GET YOUR No. 3711 (517) 348-2269 
PF cece 1369 So gag sna Vv AL ANCHE I-75 Bus. Loop - Grayling, Ml. 
Tne aoe 8d AMR ore gore cetcn egererenictare sree A ON 

\, Bracelet sag Layaway Greavaiy Te mtr previe HOF ov. prvwe! errr Se Bs nung ta sow Sad SUBSCRIPTION 


¢ TODAY An Equal Opportunity Employer M/ 


Clinic 


1317 West Main 
Gaylord 


Family Practice 
Call 732-6421 
For Appointments 


Specialties 
By Appointment 
Call Our Fetoskey Office 
732-1155 


Audiology 
Dermatology 
Eur, Nose & Throat 
Endocrinology/Diabetes 
Gyn cology 
Internal Medicine 
Neurology 
Obstetrics 
Ophthalmology 
Optometry 
Orthopedic Syrgery 
Pediatrics 
Surgery 
Urotogy 


On-Site X-Ray & Lab 
Optical Shop 


“UNITED WAY NOTICE 


The Allocations Committee of the Crawford County 
Unitec Way has begun activities in anticipation of the 
1990-91 Fund Drive. The Committee is presently 
accepting requests for applications from potential 
recipients. 

Consideration for United Way funding will be given 
to any non-profit organization in Crawford County that 
has obtained 501-C-3 status from the Federal 
Government, a License to Solicit from the Michigan 
State Attorney General, and whose By-Laws contain 
a non-discrimination clause. 

lf your agency is interested in applying for 1991 
funds, please request an application from the 
Crawtord County United Way Allocations Committee, 
D.J. Brown, Chairman, F.0. Box 171, Grayling, Mi 
49738, no later than May 17, 1990. 


-2-9-16 


: Especially for 


the Summer Bride 
Gowns © Veils 
Undergarments © Gloves 


Plus complete 
Wedding Services 
Catering 

© Decorating 

© Videotaping 
Call for all your 
celebration needs 


Once Upon a 
\G\S Time Fashions 
ae 3 er Events 
(517) 348-4094 


as = es Aga ir. 7 
Z Bey s 
Pi ee AS, ED ~ 


ge 


GHS SOFTBALL--The GHS Varsity 1990 squad. (back row, L-R) Terry Nielson, assistant coach, 
Shannon Gizinski, Kristen Walker, Heather Stephenson, Melanie Ojala, Jenny Lochner, Anne Petrosky Jim 
Smith, manager (front) Heidi Craigie, Lisa Jo Barber, Nikki Morrill, Janet Bickford, Tammy Duby, 
Margarita Perez, Shannon Hinds, Susan Huss, , not shown coach Rebbeca Brown. 


15 GHS Students Earn 


Conference Academic Honors 


Five Grayling High School 
students were named to the 
Michigan Huron Shores Con- 


ference All-Athletic Aca- 
demic Team. 
Kevin Austin, Paula Nunn, 


Ojala Advances To 
Economics National Finals 


Jennifer Ojala, of Grayling, 
is onc of the | 1-member Lake 
Superior State University team 
that has won the Students in 
Free Enterprise (SIFE) Re- 
gional Competition in Chi- 
cago and has qualified for the 
Intemational Expo in Kansas 
City, Missouri on May 20-22. 

The LSSU team won the 
12-team North Central States 
Regional Competition, using 
displays, demonstrations, vid- 
eos, and written and spoken 
explanations of 14 different 
projects. 


“It’s the first time our team 
has won the regional and quali- 
fied for a national final,” said 
Charles Meiser, economics 
professor at LSSU, and fac- 
ulty advisor, “We've done 
well at the Regionals many 
times, but never won it.” 

Lake State competitors in- 
cluded: Paul Barbe of North 
Bay, Ontario; Jodie Christesen 
of Iron Mountain; Deanna 
Fischer of Flint; Jennifer Fur- 
gason of St. Ignace; Thomas 
Galbraith of Mio; Diane Kiel- 


iszewski and Bradley 
Michaud of Alpena; Craig 
LaBlanc of Lansing; Jennifer 
Ojala of Grayling; Mia 
Roberts of Ontanagon; and 
Thomas Wiegand of Sterling 
Heights. 

Some of the Lake State proj- 

ects, explained and demon- 
strated at the Regional com- 
petition were: a leadership 
training seminar in Gaylord; a 
halt-the-deficit survey con- 
ducted at LSSU and in Sault 
Ste. Marie; a Christmas oma- 
ment fundraiser; jewelry sales; 
Winter Carnival 1990; a club 
fair; a save-energy program, 
restaurant place mats; and 
sponsorship of lectures and 
tours. 
Other teams competing in 
LSSU’s bracket included: St. 
Joseph's College of Rensse- 
laer, Indiana; North Central 
College of Naperville, Illinois; 
Inver Hills Community Col- 
lege of Inver Grove Heights, 
Minnesota; Olivet Nazarene 
University of Kankakee, Iili- 
nois; and Davenport College 
of Grand Rapids. 


Melanie Ojala, Margarita 
Perez, and Nicole Trenary all 
qualified for the team by earn- 
ing atleasta 3.5 average while 
participating in a sport. 
Perez and Ojala both had 
4.0 averages and playcd bas- 
ketball, volleyball, and soft- 
ball. Nunn earned a 3.82 
average and wasacheerleader. 
Austin eared a 3.80 average 
and wrestled. Trenary earned 
a3.58 average and played bas- 
ketball, and volleyball. 


Page 9 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


GERTA'S DRAPERIES 
HEADQUARTERS FOR 
WINDOW COVERINGS 


32 Years Of 
Serving 
Michigan 


GERTA'S DRAPERIES 


CALL 732-3340 FOR HOME APPOINTMENT. 
2281 OLD 27 S. — GAYLORD 


Spring and Summer 
Fashion Show 


Sponsored by 
St. Mary's Catholic Womens Club 


Place: St. Mary's Family Center - Spruce St. 
Clothes by “Jvie Girl” & "Kathleen's Plus” 


Date: Thursday, May 17, 1990 
Time: 7:00pm to 9:00pm 


Dessert Buffet with coffee and tea 


Cost: $4.25 per person 


TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: IvieGirl 
& Kathleens Plus, Mac's Drug Store, 
Weaver's Gifts, The Church Office 
or After Both Sunday Masses. 


Here's How Smart People 


Money! 


ayaa “Chae, 
Airy ATER OT SE > 


3 


At DOLLAR WISE we're working hard to buy only quality items that offer deep savings and 
we're passing that savings on to you. At DOLLAR WISE we're committed to saving you 
money. In fact we guarantee it! 


SAVE THIS WEEK ON: 


DOG FOOD 


25 LB. BAG 


CONTADINA 
TOMATO PASTE 


e 


9 


' ‘“, IVORY DISH 
DETERGENT 
Mey 


32 OZ. 


$1.59 


COLGATE 
ret (a) MOUTH WASH 
ay Ke 32 OZ, BOTTLE 


oo 
=i 


COUPON EXPIRES 5/15/90 


PAPY BRAND 


_ SPECIAL BLEND SEASONING SALT 


BUY ONE GET ONE FREE 


16 OZ. JAR 


Money Back Guarantee It's Better Than Lawry's 


___ LIMIT ONE WITH COUPON eumnwwe 


WE NOW ACCEPT FOOD STAMPS 


DOLLAR WISE DISCOUNT STORES 


M-72 West (Fred Bear Plaza) « Grayling * (517) 348-1100 
Open 7 Days A Week « Monday - Saturday 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. - Sunday 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. 


Limit 6 free 
<2 Now thru May 20th 


ENN 


Next To Denny's IGA 
Grayling —- 348-1353 
Open 24 Hours, 


Page 10 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


We know your Mom... ~ 
and just what she’ll love! 


With every 
Mother’s Day 
Purchase 

Receive 


rez 


MLE ae oe if : 


She'll Feet "the beriece. ‘ 
Pretty Gift for Mom 
In Our ‘‘Isotoner 
Fine K j Slippers”’ 
Lingerie 4 Si mee oe 
ae 5to10%% ss) 
SAR sh Oe ey RN) on . 
Offer Good Now See ea ae 
Thru Mother’s Day 


Free Gift Wrapping! 


Be Ree er en eet ss 


. git Ms Duhon ! 
SAY htons 


oe Ry % 
inherent pees Phen: ‘ ~—e 
seaman gnnEnERenianemananttendabemeemnemnintier cnanecataameaaedaniemeenaeatenianieeannmmmemaienearsah 


Specializing in Sizes 3 to 46 


Mon.-Sat. 9:30 a.m.-6 p.m. ; 
, Sun. 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Le - rl, 
Mercantile Mail Se WY ol 

"Uptown" Grayling hi & 


ae Tk mont selegant 
Mothers Day Dining 


Mothers Day Breakfast Buf fet 
Rotary Room —— 8 a.m. - noon 


Country Fresh Scrambled Eggs 
¢ Link Sausage 
American Fries « French Toast 
Baked Ham + Waffles w/hot fruit sauce 
Country Gravy * Homemade Biscuits 
Fresh Fruit « Bagels 
Danish ¢ Juices 


Mothers Day (Champagne Puffer 
Main Dining Room — Noon - 8 p.m. 
Rotary Room —1 p.m. - 4 p.m. 
Baked Strip Loin * Chicken Primavera 


Vegetable Lasagna « BBQ Ribs 
Fried Chicken « Roast Pork with dressing 


Peach Cobbler « Garden Fresh Vegetables | . re 
Roasted Red Potatoes « Multi Grain Bread er eee 


Gourmet Salad and Dessert Bar Se ae ae 


7 oslesaaeee aan aeaneepaeet mineral 


sniuenanaaahakemnntss 


¢ “omplimentary ( Tampagne. for Motlier's s i 


CHIEF SHOPPENAGONS 
MOTOR HOTEL 


STEER NOPDPHES FOES ESE DS DOW BEDOK \ GRA YING, 
103 Michigan Ave. - Grayling - 517/348-6071 . oe 


a a ee -, : 
RTI Hee me Pawnee ev 


at aametl Smoked Ribs 


’'s Day — Pamper Her! 


Hasn't your mom made you fabulous 
meals every time you've had a 
special day? It's time to return the 
favor. This Mother's Day, take Mom 
out to the Iron Gate Restaurant 

for breakfast and show her 

how special she is. 


Choose from Fggs Benedict, Ham 
and Egg Crepes, Belgium Waffles, 
Pecan or Blueberry Pancakes or 
choose from our menu. 


on her special day, bring her 
to the [ron Gate Restaurant, 
We can help you toast your 
specia] lady and make 
her the meal of her 


Our fabulous specials start at 
6:30 a.m. and ends at 2:00. 
Everyone in the family 


will find his or her dreams—and you 
favorite meal at won't have to do 
the Iron Gate the dishes! 


Restaurant. 


a Jay Karrings 
and Gift Box, 


ok $1.99! 


$9.99 value, just $1.99 
with any $5.00 Carlton Cards purchase 


>» DRUG STORE 


. 422 Michigan Ave. ee Mi 49738 
PHONE: 348-21 
"Get To Know Mac's er 
Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9 a.m.-8 p.m. 
Sun. 9 a.m.-1 p.m. 


°MCMXC Carlton Cardsinc. 


348-3171 


CALL US TO 
ORDER DELICIOUS 


Broasted Chicken 


FREE CONES 


or Mom on Sunday 
Mother's Day May 13th 


Tey lay Falher 
es : ; tert d pues 
Phrepniey ‘Waffle Cones 
Made Easy Parfaits 


Call us with your 
order frozen Yogurt 


If you want to pamper your mom: 


mr eet ee ae ee ee ee ee 


ms and 


(hes ef andstro 
Mother's Day. 


a) 
A 


. 


a nice ring to it. 


Versatile mother’s ring designs from fandstrom’s. 
Ask us about customizing stones and designs. 
Plus pendants, earrings and much more. . 


_fendstroms 


: ORIGINAL 
ly BLACK HILLS GOLD 
pean CREATIONS = 


Open 7 Days A Week! 
203 Michigan Ave. — 348-5829 
Uptown Grayling 


Pender 


RENT-TO-OWN 


T.V. And Appliance 
RENTALS AND SALES. 


* 


G. E. Microwave Oven 
With Cart 


Only $1 0.95 Per Week 


Features: Auto Defrost 
Auto Timer + Clock 


« Three Models To Choose From > 
If She's been wanting a Microwave 
Now's the time to Surprise Her! 


FEATURING: 
GE -RCA +-MAGNAVOX 
No Credit Hassles 


No Down Payment 
No Long Term Obligations 


Best Prices 
Best Warranty 
Best Service 


HOURS: Mon. - Thurs. 10 - 6 — Fri, 10.7 ~ Sat. 10-4 
LOCATION: 303 James Street 
PHONE: 348-2499 


Pricos May Vary Between Locations 


@n‘‘Why Go Anywhere Else” 


Aunt Bettys Restaurant 


MOTHERS DAY 


MAY 13, 1990 


“4 Something Special For Her 
\ CFD 

For All The Special 
Things She s Done 


Make our place your place to enjoy some great 
home style cooking at the best prices in town. 


Happy Mother's Day 


SPECIAL DINNERS: 
Roast Turkey & Dressing 


Swiss Steak & choice of potato 


Included with Specia}s: 
Satad Bar, Homemade Bread $5.95 


Salad Bar on Menu — Add $1.25 


Delicious Homestyle 
Cooking 


Breakfast 
Anytime 


Hours: 6 a.m. - 8 p.m. 


SPECIALS FOR 
Breakfast « Lunch » Dinner 
Homemade Biscuits & Gravy 

Homemade Soup & Chill 
Kiddie Menu 


T WIEBER gewetera ) 


Wa 


SJ 


a.at 


Dining Room “ts, ~S<Ze, Wey, 
& Terrace | Na 


Sunday, May 13 ——- Noon to 9 p.m. 


HOT ENTREES: 
Roast Steamship Round of Beef 


Breast of Chicken w/white wine sauce 
Roast Pork with Peach Chutney 
Seafood Lasagna 

Breaded Trout w/Cajun Pecan Butter 
Lemon Parsley potato and rice pilaf 
Green Beans and Mushrooms 


Cauliflower Polonaise 
BREAKFAST ENTREES: BAKED GOODS: 
Waffles with Fruit Topping Assorted Fruit Bread 
Bratwurst Sausage Peach Cake 
Egg Cardinal w/Lobster Sauce English Truffles 
Omelet Table Croissants 
Strawberry Shortcake 
COLD ENTREES: and much more 
Fresh Fruit and Cheese Tray ey 
Raw Vegetables and Dip 
Mother's Day Salad Bar 
Jello Molds 
Deviled Eggs 5 


—-——~—The Grayling 


2650 I-75 Business Loop South — Grayling, Ml 49738 
800-292-9055 or 517-346-7611 


se ET oes 
SOARES SAT eS N 


_LaMBReaiete oy 


aaa 


+ 
BOA 
2 ae tas 


* 


NAN 2 8 8 PESTS! 
ns, SEN ers Siesta, Saag Eee SBS % 
: oa autre ee 


avewerwes 
2 nee SI 
Oe © Bee Le 


“hate 


brad 


te WA Aas. 
Mel yanee eases nae 


om > 


= Fe RED Oa a Dee tee, el ee 2 oP 
Oe BOR ERR ER RE ee at AR a Seg I Bota de odie Yeeros a 5 


illiam R. Eppler, M.D. 
éffirey K. Chaulk, M.D. 
eclallzing in Medical and Surgical 
éatinent for Eyes, including 
itaract Surgery, Glaucoma, and 
__ Diabetic Retingpathy. 
(617) 348-8689 


0 North Down River Orive — Grayling 


th gators 


/ iN . 


er cr 


YOU CAN 
AFFORD 
$239 PLUS TAX 


UP TO HS UNITED INCHES 
PRICE INCLUDES; 


ff m/ 


f- 3/4" INSULATION GLASS + FINANCING + AVAILABLE 


«INSTALLATION » 1/2 SCREEN - BACKED BY A 50 


517-821-5995 
Home improvement Center 
802 McKinley, Higgins Lake 


ADVANCED 
BUILDING 


Ws Have 


Boat Insurance 


that'll set you salling. 
Call us for a Quote 
§17/348-6711 

DAVE JANSEN, CIC 


Sorenson Agency 
5688 M-72 West, Grayling 


Page 12 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 


SAAN 


CORARAANRE RRA 


WINDOWS — 


YEAR WARRANTY “ALUMINUM WRAPPING OUTSIDE 


Dane 


1990 


Fick & Sons Open Computerized Fuel Station 


CF Fick & Sons’ new Pa- 
erhe Pade Commercial Fuel- 
ine System has replaced gas 
station attendants with com- 
puters 

Pacefte Pride is a nation. 
wile fueling network that 
started on the west coast and 
has spread across the United 
States and Canada tt was 
designed primarily for com: 
mercial carriers, bul anyone 
can apply for a credit card. 
The card system ts especially 
good for the individual whose 
job requires him to drive great 
(tistances and would benefit 
from a detailed record of his 
GOS {aANsacuions. 

The computerized credit 
card system allows commer- 
cial carriers to purchase fuel 
fromany Pacific Pride fucting 
station and receive a single 
monthly bill itemizing each 
purchase. 

“Tf our customer goes from 
our home site in Grayling toa 
sie in Grand Rapids, his bil 
ing allcome back to his hore 
office,” said Scott Fick, vice 
president of operations. He 
said the location on the in- 
voice indicates the fueling site 
and Ficks pays a small com- 
mission to the site indicated 
on the invoice for allowing 


B otheic cushomer Wy use their 


facility. The commission prin- 
ciple works the same {Gr out- 
af-town carriers who use the 


F Crayling site. 


Fick compared the Pacific 
Pride Commercial Fucting 
System to a bank automatic 
teller machine with various 
locations. The customer in- 
serts the access card into the 
computer station and enters 
the necessary code numbers. 
When the computer accepts 
the information. it directs the 
customer to use the pump. 

Pacific Pride has about a 
dozen locations in Michigan 
and is getting more all the 
lime. 

The new system: replaces 
Fick’s old key system, which 
Keith Bodi, Pacific Pride ac- 


aes 


count manager, said was a 
manual system that required 
each purchase to be entered 
into the computer individu- 
ally. 

“Ht was a very laborious 
task,” said Bodi. “The record 
keeping that Pacific Pride 
furnishes with its invoice is 
superb.” 

Bodt said Charlie Fick, 
fourterof C.F. Fickand Sons, 
was looking for a system that 
would allow his distributor- 
ship to tie into a national fran- 
chise and provide service to 
commercial carriers who 
nceded access to fuel supplies 
24 hours a day, seven days a 
WEEK. 


Pacific Pride's computer- 
ized invoice contains 14 dif- 
ferent pieces of information 
including: location, date and 
time of the purchase, drivers 
name, type and quantity of 
product purchased, price per 
Ballon, and total cost of the 
transaction. Fick said this 
service was especially valu- 
able for fleet management. 

Other advantages to the Pa- 
cific Pride fueling system in- 
chides a credit card that does 
not have an antual fee, the 
end of keeping track of nu- 
merous receipts, no added 
charge to the cost of fuel pur- 
chase, and a credit card that 
allows the owner to set limits 
on the type and quantity of 
products that can be pur- 


chased. The commercial fu- 
eling system also offers busi- 
nesses an alternative to com- 
pany gas pumps. Fick said 
tighter controls, tiability and 
large security bonds are mak 
ing businesses think twice 
about installing of maintain- 
ing underground tanks. 

Computerized probes inside 
Fick’s underground tanks 
monitor 24 hours a day For the 
amount of water in the tanks, 
temperature, amount of fucl 
remaining, daily totals of fuel 
sold, as well as leakages. 

Twenty years ago, Fick said 
self-serve gas stations were il- 
legal. New technology and 
improved and simplified 
equipment brought changes in 
regulatory lawsand self-serve 
became areality. Further ad- 
vances in technology contrib: 
uted to additional safety fea- 
tures and now there are unit- 
tended fucling stations. Fick 
said these improvements in- 
clude emergency shut off 
systems, emergency (ele- 
phones with automatic dial- 
ing that connects the caller di- 
rectly to an answering sery- 
ice, and gas pumps with anto- 
matic snap-releases on tts 
hoses to prevent majer fuel 
spills. 

Fick's fuel station is afso 
equipped with an underground 
catch basin tocapture any ma- 
jot fuel spill. 

Will computerized fucling 
stations eliminate the need for 


ABWA Plans Annual 
Business Associate Night 


The A.B.W.A.’s Annual 
Business Associate Night will 
be at Chief Shoppenagon's, 
Tuesday, May 15, with a 
Soctal Hour at 6 p.m. and 
Dinner at 7 p.m. Price is 
$12.50 per person and the 
theme of the night will be 50’s 
& 60's, 


‘Tickets are available from 


any A.B.W.A. member or by 
calling Donna at 348-5435, 

A.B.W.A.’s “Woman Of 
The Year’, Darlene Fenn, wil! 
be honored and the “Business 
Associate Of The Year” will 
be announced and honored. 

Dance to the music of “The 
Bondarz.”’, 50’s and 60's type 
music and bring back the 
“memories.” 


conventional gas stations? 
Fick said he did not think so. 
He said their fueling system ts 
acreditcardonly business and 
there are still people who 
prefer io pay cash for their 
purchases. 

“Others watch the prices of 
fuel and are not particular to 
brand,” he satd. “The extra 
service we provide (detailed 
records) some people domt 
need and other services pra- 
vided ata gas station such as 
conventence store ems, auto 


New Business 


& 


HIGH TECHIE SYST 


‘apts 


‘EM 


mechanic work and wrecker 
service we will never offer. 
“Our system, per se, won't 
revolutionize the industry,” 
said Fick, “but it is more and 
morte the trend of socicty, in 
general, to use telephone 
cards, automatic teller ma- 
chine cards, and even some 
grocery stores now allow 
credit cards. The world is 


more and more accustomed to 
using a credit card to obtain a 
service and then paying for 
the service ata later date.” He 


Ms . 


iy 
Lt 


pa 


--V 


ower 


said many of the major oil 
companies are installing credit 
card readers at self-serve test 
station locations in different 
parts of the country. 

Future plans include insta). 
lation of a canopy over the 
pumps and they intend 10 
expand their franchise with 
other branch locations. 

The Pacific Pride fuchrz 
station opened for busines: 
the last week in March ands 
located on M-72 West nextto 
the railroad tracks. 


irgil Foster, of Houghton Lake is shown 


inserting his computerized credit card at C. F. Fick and Sons' Pacific Pride 
Commercial Fueling Station. 


gt te ata lea ata Renn = ees os MT en ee ; 

Che Meadows of Gravli 

ae I-75 BUSINESS LOOP : ae 
% 2301 SOUTH GRAYLING ROAD TELEPHONE: (517) 348-2801 
= GRAYLING, MICHIGAN 49738 : a 
a oe 
a 2 . e e oe 
a eae ope HOME WEEK You are invited to attend = 
me ROCLAMATION NMA . ae 
= The Meadows of Grayling =e 
& WHEREAS, our community's citizens living in nursing Nursing Home Week Activities: oe 
se homes proudly strive to maintain their dignity and _ ° X05 
a independence, May 13 Mother's Day Tea 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. a 
a WHEREAS, the staff in nursing homes take pride in May 14 Open House 10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. a 
om «Caring for the body and spirit by providing continuous, Hearing Aide Checks/ meh 
a loving care; Cleaning 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Se 
x oe . Hearing Evaluations/ ae 
oo WHEREAS, the volunteers in nursing homes take pride Accuchecks 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. eh 
eo in their ability to enhance the lives of nursing homes Blood Pressure/Heights Soi 
ee residents through special programs and events; and Weights 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Se 
a Balloon Launch 3:00 p.m. =X 
=3 WHEREAS, HEA Management Group is proud to Oo . ah 
= sponsor National Nursing Home Week 1990 and the May 15 Music Gala with the SONG ce 
we activities thereof; BIRDS and THE KITCHEN BAND __ 1:30 p.m. 8 
eo OX 
x THEREFORE, do I Robert Golnick, as mayor of The May 16 oe ee at hl eats ae 
x City of Grayling proclaim the weck of May 13-19, 1990, epee nerinci * y pee eo a 
2% as Nursing Home Week in this community and urge all ae nS ene eee aa eee a 
we citizens to take pride in caring by visiting nursing homes M TRAT TG = 
a ; : May 17 2nd Annual PIE KA'TING CONTES x oy 
=x and lending support and congratulations to the residents, : one oe 
x Staff and volunteers who make long term care something May 18 Strawherry Social 2:00 p.m a 
ev for which this community truly can be proud. Me SR 
= : 

oR mn es a 
= | We Care About Chose You Care About = 
Seance ) x SR AEA 

Pa Ky Aophys Pah toe iv, ee, De, iu tt te, tre he ee * 


Students Launch 
Bottle Messages 


Recently Mr, Hayes’ fourth 
grade reading class was in- 
volved with a fun project of 
sending a bottle message. The 
Students previously read a 


BINGO! 
“SATURDAY | 
7:00 P.M. 
Frederic Volunteer 
Fire Department 


Basement Frederic 
Township Hall 


SUNDAY 
AMVETS POST 90 
6:30 PM 
K OF C HALL 
604 Norway St., Grayling 


MONDAY 
Hanson Hills 
7:00 p.m. 

At the K of C Hall 
604 Norway St., Grayling 


TUESDAY 


2121 Industrial Dr. 
Grayling, Michigan 
WEEKLY JACKPOT 


6:30 TO 11 P.M. 
KNIGHTS OF 
COLUMBUS 

604 NORWAY ST. 

GRAYLING, MICHIGAN 


6:30 p.m. 
St. Francis of Asissi 
Church, Lewiston 


THURSDAY 


American Legion 
Hall 
Post 106 
7:00 p.m. 
Grayling 


FRIDAY 


602 Huron, M72 East 


DISTRICT: 


school election. 


Election. 


BINGO! 


LAST DAY OF 
REGISTRATION 
SCHOOL ELECTION 


NOTICE OF LAST DAY OF REGISTRATION 
OF THE ELECTORS OF CRAWFORD 
AUSABLE SCHOOL DISTRICT CRAWFORD, 
OTSEGO, AND KALKASKA COUNTIES, 


story about how messages 
were sent across oceans in a@ 
bottle. Mr. Hayes’ class of 
three years ago had done a 
similar project, and for what- 
ever reason the bottle was 
found over one hundred miles 
upstream from where it was 
launched on the Mississippi 
River, 

This year his class prepared 
two bottles. One group of 
students had their bottle 
launched on the Ohio River at 
Covington, Kentucky, and the 
other group of students had 
their bottle launched at Cot- 
tonwood Point, Missouri, on 
the Mississippi River. Mr. 
Hayes and his class hope to 
get a response before the end 
of the school year. 


AuSable Valley 
Youth Service 


Bureau Moves 

The AuSable Valley Youth 
Service Bureau have moved 
to 203 Huron. After having 
been located at their old loca- 
tion on M-72 West for nine 
years, it was felt that a move 


of Social Services and the local 
Community Mental Health 
office would be bencficial to 
the clients being served. 

The public is invited to stop 
by and see the new office (next 
to the Craig Combs State Farm 
Insurance). 


sty 


MICHIGAN 


TO THE ELECTORS OF THE SCHOOL 


Please Take Notice that the annual school election of the 
school district wilt be held on 


Monday, June 11, 1990. 


The tast day on which persons may register with the 
appropriate city or township clerks, In order to be eligible to 
vote at the annual schoo! election called to be held on 


Monday, June 11, 1990, Is 


Monday, May 14, 1990. 


Persons registering after 5 o'clock In the evening on 
Monday, May 14, 1990, are not eligible to vote at the annual 


Persons planning to register with the respective city or 
township clerks must ascertain the days and hours on which 
the clerk's offices are open for registration. 

This Notice Is given by order of the board of education. 

Rodney R. Lobsinger 
Secretary, Board of Education 


ADDENDUM 


PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE 
Blennlal Election of C.0.0.R. Intermediate School District, 
Michigan, with be held In conjunction with the Annual School 


ADDENDUM 


PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that 
Blennlal Election of Kirtland Community College, Michigan, 
will be held in conjunction with the Annual School Election. 


SENIORS 
THIS I$ FOR 
YOU! 


it's not tou late to order 


lart:’ 


announcements for graduation. 


We offer rush service! 
Hurry in and see our fine selection 
of graduation announcements end 


PH®T@GRAPHY 


400 North Old 27 
1 1/2 miles north of Scheer Motors 


BOTTLE EXPERIMENT-- 


i 


This group of Mr. 


Hayes' students launched a bottle on the Mississippi. 


Bits of Talk 


By Fay Bovee 


Ryan Hindmarsh, who at- 
tends Clarenceville High 
School in Livonia, will be 


accessories. 


that the regular 


the regular 


BOTTLE LAUNCHED..-This group of stu- 
closertothe local Department dents launched a bottle on the Ohio River. 


spending a month in Japan 
this summer as partof the YFU 
program. Ryan, the son of 
Wayne and Jinnic Hindmarsh 
will spend from July 13 to 
August {4 with the Fujisaki 
family in Tomisat, Chiba, 
Japan. The father is an engi- 
necr, the mothera homemaker, 
and there is a daughter, Aya, 
age 17, and a son, age 14, 

Alva and Eva Stephan have 
returned to their Grayling 
home after spending the win- 
ter in Florida. 

Artand Monica Weideman 
visited their two sons and their 
familics during April. They 
went to Dayton to visit Tom 
and his family and to attend 
the christening of their grand- 
son, Peter Carl Weideman, on 
April 29. Peter was born on 
December 28, 1989. In Indi- 
anapolis they visited the Bill 
Weidemans who had moved 
there from North Carolina last 
fall, 

April birthdays were cele- 
brated when Cal and Suc 
Brenner, Buzz and Betty 
Stephenson, Leo and Lucille 
Bagrosky, Ken and Peg Car- 
lisle, and Dick and Jean Raab 
went out for dinner. The 
Brenners were hosts for cock- 
tail hour and the group wentto 
Holiday On The Lake at 
Houghton Lake to fete Cal, 
Sue, Betty, Leo, Ken, and 
Dick's birthdays. All of them 
have recently returned from 
the winter spent in Gulf 
Shores, Alabama, except the 
Dick Raab’s who spent the 


winter in Florida. 


Chapter Forming 
For Military 
Retired Officers 


An effort is being made to 
establish a Chapter of The 
Retired Officers Association 
in Norther Lower Michigan. 
All retired military officers, 
their widows, National Guard 
and Reserve Officers, former 
officers, as well as active duty 
officers are urged to contact: 
Lt. Col, Ervan L. Amidon, 
3782 Incochee Trail, Traverse 
City, 49684, 1-616-946-8948; 
or Lt, Col. Donald K. 
McClure, 855 N. Marion 
Drive, Traverse City, 49684, 
1-616-941-0408 for details, 


Local Studenis 
Earn Degrees 


Pamela Lewis and Kim- 
berly Stockton, both from 
Grayling are among 3,000 
May graduates at Central 
Michigan University, 

Lewis received a bachelor 
of science degree in health 
care administration. Stock- 
ton received a bachelor of 
science degree in education 
with a major in English. 


Local H & R Block 
Office Recognized 


H & R Block franchises in 
Grayling and Gaylord won 
honors at the annual H & R 
Block Appreciation Banquet 
held March 31 at the Park 
Place in Traverse City. 

H & R Block of Grayling, 
owned by Daniel Blamer since 
1986, won the award for the 
Greatest Percent of Growth in 
number of retums. 

In announcing the Office 
Award, Autie Lamb, District 
Director of Satellite Fran- 
chises, mentioned that Mr. 
Blamer has been with H & R 
Block for six years and pre- 
sented him with a six year 
Service Award. She further 
noted that in June 1989, he 
passed the Treasury Card 
Exam becoming an enrolled 
agent. . 


5 Local Students 
Join Chapter 


Five Crawford County resi- 
dents were accepted into Al- 
pha Omicron Gamma, the 
chapter of the Phi Theta Kappa 
National Honors Society that 
is active at Kirtland Commu- 
nity College. 
recently held their [nitiation 
Ceremony for qualified stu- 
dents on Friday, April 27, 
1990. 

Phi Theta Kappa is the only 
National Honor Society for 
two-year colleges that is rec- 
ognized by the American 
Association of Junior Col- 
leges. To qualify, a student 
must have a minimum g.p.a. 
of 3.0,a minimum cumulative 
of 15.5 credit hours, and be 
working towards completion 
of an Associates Degree. 

New Members from 
Frederic are Lori Bentley and 
Sheri Earl. New Members 
from Grayling are Dorthea 
Fowler, Laurie Hoggard, and 
Lorraine Yousif. 


Savole Earns 
Aquinas Degree 


Ann Marie Savoie, daugh- 
ter of Phil and Rose Savoie of 
Grayling, graduated cum 
laude from Aquinas College 
in Grand Rapids on Saturday, 
May 12, 1990. She has a 
double major of mathematics 
and business and is employed 
by American Actuary Co. in 
Grand Rapids. 


The chapter §f 


Page 13 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


GRAYLING GLASS co. 


503 McClellan, Grayling 


a 
/ 4tx 
At the same banquet, H & R if j 348-6641 
Block of Gaylord won the sex * AUTO 
award for the Highest Percent Pas) y , * HOME 
cso for Rapid Refunds. ; We 3 . * BUSINESS 
is was Gaylord’s first year BY WE COME TO YOU 
under new ownership. \\ 
Both Grayling and Gaylord a 
offices, as well as the Mio KEN TASKEY — OWNER 
17 YEARS EXPERIENCE 


office, are owned by Daniel 
Blamer of Mio. 


Milltown Marine_ 
Hours for the month of May: “aaery 
Monday thru Saturday 9 a.m.-5p.m.—Closed Sunday 


ve 
e: 


SRA 
MQGA. 


N 1990 
OMC COBRA 2887 Grayling Avenue —Jonnson Outboards 
Dealer 348-9116 in Stock 


nnd 


GET A HANDL 
ON OUR NEW 


6-PACK. (2) 
SPECT $282 


plus deposit 


Lic 


Plus Deposit 
Bottles THIS WEEK 


. Ca 


Papel end cole 
ere regtetered 
treet eo of PeperCo, ine 


wile 
= 


A 


Mes 
LS7s 


19 


LM 


Yt: 


45 


ME 72 West - Phone 348 9675 


~ Community Calender | 


CORREO IOS 
3 S 


~ SPONSORED BY 


gi iee Central Area 


— ae 


(Se 


Wh statiang, sel 


° CHAMBER "EGGS & ISSUES" WITH PAUL BEACHNAU OF GAYLORD CONVENTION & 
VISITORS BUREAU, 8 AM. Copper Kettle Restaurant 
eCRAWFORD COUNTY FAIR ASSOCIATION BOARD MEETING, 7 pm. Bear's Restaurant 


¢ MOTHER'S DAY, Treat your Mom todayl Take her on a picnic to Hartwick Pines or a 
canoe trip on the AuSable or Manistee River, remember she's the only Mom you have. 


GRAYLING KIWANIS MEETING 12 Noon, Chief Shoppenagon's Hotel 
ST, FRANCIS EPISCOPAL CHURCH ROAST BEEF DINNER, 5 pm to 7 pm, at Church 


*ROTARY MEETING, 12 Noon, Chief Shoppenagon’s Hotel 
GRAYLING HIGH SCHOOL SPRING BAND CONCERT & FINE ARTS AWARDS, 7 pm, Joseph 
Stipe Auditorium, Grayling High School 


WELCOME TO THE 
GRAYLING BRANCH 
OFFICE 


MAY 6 - 12 1S NATIONAL TOURISM WEEK 


*GPA LUNCHEON MEETING, 12 Noon, Chief Shoppenagon's Hotel 


- 


ASK ABOUT MEMBERSHIP 


ELIGIBILITY TODAY 
LOCATED AT 505 CLYDE 
[ACROSS FROM 
MERCY HOSPITAL, 
IN GRAYLING] 


348-7488 


os: 


Page 14 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


New Conservation Club Hatches 1st Service Project 


MOTHER'S DAY 
SPECIAL 


Keep Mom's Car Clean 


Just before Earth Day, 
members of the newly-formed 
Camp Grayling Conservation 
Club initiated their “Bird 


House Contest °90.” Bird 
house kits were made avail- 
able to every third and fourth 


GIFT COUPONS 
NOW AVAILABLE 


5 washes - $1 6 | grade studentin the Crawford- 

($20 value) AuSable School District. 

ae) (¢ After minimal assembly and 

t— CEI installation at their home, 
eto 10 washes - $30 students will watch for bird 
oe ($40 value) activity, and listen for the 


sounds of baby birds. The 
first registered student report- 
ing verifiable baby birds in 
their house will be awarded a 
new bicycle. 

The Camp Grayling Con- 


| 
: MILLTOWN CAR WASH 
| 


AUTOMATIC DRIVE-THRU 


Corner of M72 W. & Norway 
' Grayling - 348-5384 


The five-mile March of 
Dimes WalkAmerica will start 
at 10:30 a.m. Saturday, May 
12, at Mercy Hospital, rain or 
shine. 

Walkers should be at the 
hospital by 10.a.m. The five- 
mile course will take walkers 
through both the north and 


Military News 


Help With: 


Wallpaper 
ePleated Binds 
Vertical Blinds 
° Mini Binds 
efwaneries 


WE'LL BRING IT ALL TO YOU 
AND AT NO EXTRA CHARGE 


CALL 348-3141 FOR APPOINTMENT 


Marine Pfc. Timothy J. 
Pemie, son of Patrick V. and 
Donna L. O’Grady of 205 N. 
Park Drive, Grayling, has 
completed the School of In- 
fantry. 


FN en Ye 2 ae aes 
Crenelope’s Home Decor 
348-3141 Mon- aos 

41 Mon-Sat 9 to 5 the Marine Corps in Septem- 
, ber of 1989. 


*SE LESKY) FOR 103rd STATE REPRESENTATIVE 


re ee 

a "FUN RAISER" a 

Zz Tuesday, May 15, 1990 — 7:00 p.m.-10:00p.m. Zz 

a. Grayling Eagles Club ao. 

te — MUSIC BY: NICK at NIGHT — o 
Cocktails at 6:30 p.m. 


$15.00 per person 
CASH BAR 


Hors doeuvre's & Entertainment at 7:00 p.m. 
SPONSORED BY COMMITTEE TO ELECT SELESKY 


How can low cost insurance 
guarantee all your valuables are covered? 
No problem. 


Auto-Owners Personal Articles Protection assures you that your “valuable 
belongings are covered against financial loss. And, it's offered at a low 
cost, too. So ask your "no problem" Auto-Owners agent how you can 
protect your valuable articles such as artwork and jewelry the same, safe 
way you protect your home. 


oe 


@ 


The Grayling Insurance Agency 
LIFE — HOME — BUSINESS — CAR 
120 Mich. Ave. — Grayling, Mi. — Phone 348-2851 


Complete 
_ Dentistry 


Dr. A. Knizner- 
Higgins Lake Family Dentistry 


New Patients Welcome Accepting all Insurance plans 
Including Medicaid. 


Emergency Service | 
9787 Ww. Higgins Lake Drive 
| (51 7) 821-6223 


A 1989 graduate of Gray- 
ling High School, he joined 


servation Club, founded in 
January, 1990, is a member 
clubof Michigan United Con- 
servation Clubs. Its member- 
ship is open toall who share in 
concems for environmental 
preservation, public educa- 
tion, and enjoyment of nature. 
Other projects planned for 
future months include hunter 
safety instruction, youth fire- 
arm education, outdoor sur- 
vival, and deer and turkey 
feeding programs. Current 
strength of the club is over 
cighty members, with most 
from Crawford County, but 
with some living as far away 
as Grand Rapids, Lansing, De- 


south side of Grayling. 

The March of Dimes Birth 
Defects Foundation seeks to 
help the unborn and the new- 
bom through the prevention 


i 


iroit, and Michigan’s Upper 
Peninsula, 

Bird house kits, with mate- 
rials donated by Weyer- 
hacuser Corporation, were 
distributed to 314 students in 
grades three and four of Gray- 
ling Elementary, Frederic Ele- 
mentary, and Calvary Baptist 
Academy. Help from family 
members is authorized for the 
assembly process of sawing, 
nailing, glucing, and painting. 
The birds must also do their 
share to furnish a nest and 
baby birds. Local varictics of 
blucbirds, tree swallows, and 
sparrows will be the most 
likely residents, with baby 


WalkAmerica March of Dimes 
Course to Cover 5 Miles 


of birth defects. 

For more information call 
WalkAmerica chairperson 
Noreen Harmer at Mercy 
Hospital, 348-5461. 


5 1 
a 
Tin Ae abt 
f : ; > 
, NN “a . 
or, 
“ae » a Wy “ 
A » 
. ime f A gage 
bee 
oe 4 
: ae 
ree : y 
. j 
’ . : ; ; 
; nag ah 
\ \f | 
‘ 


ENGAGEMENT ANNOUNCED.- Harry and 


Elaine Karician of Green River, Wyoming, an- 
nounced the engagement of their granddaughter, 
Shantel, to Randy Calkins of Grayling, Michigan. 
Randy is the son of Mary Ann and the late Ray 
Calkins of Grayling. Randy is presently employed 
as a technician at Mid America Pipeline. The two 
plan to be married on May 12, 1990 at the Congre- 
gational Church in Green River. 


oe 


teats 


Thomas D, Bellish and Re- 
becca J. Carroll of Grayling 
are proud to announce the ar- 
rival of Thomas Duane on 
April 30, 1990. Thomas 
Duane weighed 7 Ibs. 11 ozs. 

Mark Milwee and Sherry 
Rusher of Grayling are proud 
to announce the arrival of 
Laura Lee Milwee on April 
30, 1990. Laura Lee weighed 
7 Ibs, 3 ozs. 

Donald R. and Melony 
Haskin Jr. of Fairview are 
proud to announce the arrival 
of Alora Suzanne on May 1, 
1990. AloraSuzanne weighed 
8 Ibs. 10 1/2 ozs. 

Loyd D. and Terri Lynn 
Wilson Jr. of St. Helen are 
proud to announce the arrival 
of Shalon Brittany on May 2, 
1990. Shalon Brittany 
weighed 5 Ibs. 1 oz. 

Ken and Michele Davis of 
Houghton Lake are proud to 
announce the arrival of Paul 
Kennethon May 2,1990. Paul 
Kenneth weighed 8 Ibs. 4 ozs, 

David Pearce and Gloria 
Johnson of Fairview are proud 
to announce the arrival of 
Chelsea Lila Pearce on May 
3, 1990. Chelsea Lila weighed 
6 Ibs. 11 1/4 ozs. 

John and Debra Kelzer of 
Roscommon are proud to an- 
nounce the arrival of Court- 
ney Lynn on May 4, 1990. 
Courtney Lynn weighed 7 Ibs. 
6.2 ozs. 

Gordon Hockin and Nancy 
Liss of Houghton Lake are 
proud to announce the arrival 
of Scott Gordon on April 22, 
1990. Scott weighed 8 Ibs. 4 
ars. 

Robert and Donna Ostran- 
der of Higgins Lake are proud 
to announce the arrival of 
James Thomas on April 25, 
1990, James weighed 8 Ibs. 3 
1/2 o7s. 

Jeff and Wendy McMann 
of Grayling are proud to an- 
nounce the arrival of Ashlcy 
Maric on April 27, 1990, 
Ashley weighed 7 Ibs. 8 1/2 
07S, 


Lovells News 


Jim Koemkce of Jackson, vis- 
ited his parents Mr. and Mrs. 
Bill Koernke. 

Miss Paula Harwood of Mt. 
Clemens, spent the weekend 
with her mother, Mrs, Margie 
Harwood. 

Mr. and Mrs, Bart DeVos and 
sons visited his parents Mr. 
and Mrs. Robert DeVos over 
the weekend, 

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Douglas 
and daughter from Traverse 
City, spent Sunday with his 
aunt, Miss Margaret Douglas. 
New books in the library are: 
Cold Harbour by Jack Hig- 
gins, The Evening News by 
Arthur Hailey, Mystery by 
Peter Straub, and The Bad 
Place by Dean Koontz. 


IN MEMORY 
In Joving memory of Jake 
Helsc!], whom God called 
home | ycar ago, May 10, 
1989, 
often times we've needed 
you. often times we’ ve cried. 
Ifloving andcaring could have 
saved you, you never would 
have died. In life we loved 
you dearly, in death we love 
you and you are in our hearts 
sul. Our hearts hold a special 
place no one else can fill. 
Sadly missed and loved by: 
Wife Ellen Helse], 
& family, Luke, Jake, 
Ginger, Debbic, Cindy, 
Sucy & grandchildren 


Ditdeiv’ 


Military News 
Darrin M. Alimenti, entered 
the United States Air Force 
April 15. 

Upon graduation from six 
weeks at the Basic Military 
Training course at Lackland, 
Texas, he will receive techni- 


cal training as an Aircraft | 


Maintenance Specialist and be 
assigned to an Air Force duty 
station, 

Darvin is a 1987 graduate of 
Grayling High School and 
resided at Route 2, Box 2762, 
Grayling. 


birds predicted to hatch in 
early June. 

Students were informed that 
when they first hear the sounds 


immediately call Mr. Wally 
Walsh, secretary of the Camp 
Grayling Conservation Club, 
at 348-3700. The first caller 


will be taken shopping for a 
new bicycle suited to his or 
her size and tastes, to be pur- 
chased locally from Club 


whose baby birdsare verified, funds. 


TIMBER SALE 
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
STATE OF MICHIGAN 


of baby birds, they should 


Notice is hereby given that bids will be received by the Area Forest 
Manager, Mio Forest Area, AuSable State Forest, for certain timber on 
the following described lands: 

Oak Lake Block - T28N, ROZE, Sec. 19, E1/2 /NW1/4, SW/NW. 
Oscoda County (Appr. $3,296.45). 


Fifteen Acre Block - T28N, RO2E, Sec. 16, W1/2/SE1/4. Oscoda 
County (Appr. $4,174.70). 


Beaver Creek Block - T27N, RO1E Sec. 26, N1/2 /NE1/4; Sec. 
25, NW/NW. Oscoda County (Appr. $11,968.20). 


The right to reject any and all bids is reserved. 

Bid forms and envelopes may be obtained from the Area Forest Manager. 
Ail bids must be submitted on the bid form and in the Department's bid 
envelope, or envelope clearly identified. 

Bids must be received by James McMillan, Area Forest Manager, 
Department of Natura! Resources, AuSable State Forest - Mio Area, P.O. 
Box 939, 191 South Mt. Tom Road, Mio, Michigan 48647 not later than 
10:06 a.m., Wednesday, May 23, 1990. 


For further information, contact James McMillan at 517-826-5211. 


David F. Hales 
Director 


Announcement 


Trial attorney, Thomas R. Rensberry, has 
moved his offices from Gaylord, Michigan to 
Cadillac, Michigan. 


For over 20 years, Mr. Rensberry has 
had the privilege of representing injured 
and disabled persons throughout Northern 
Michigan. He has assisted them in 
transferring millions of dollars from reluctant 
insurance companies to deserving Northern 
Michigan residents. 


A full staff of attorneys is available in the 
Cadillac office to handle all personal injury 
cases, including workers’ compensation. Mr. 
Rensberry is limiting his practice to: 


1. Wrongful death cases; 


2. Very serious injury Cases. 


Thomas R. Rensberry, P.C, 
302 East Cass Street 
Cadillac, Michigan 4960] 
(616) 775-6507 


Pictured Are The "Graduates" From 
55 Alive/Mature Driving Course 
Sponsored By Old Kent Bank 
On May 2nd & 3rd 


Front Row: Rita Stern-instructor, Verna Gunderson, Muriel Latuszek, Madeline 
Decker, Anne Buron, Lillian Smith, and Jan Sell. Back Row: Donna Masker- 
Branch Manager, Teddy J. Stern, Violet Forbush, Anna Rouse, Richard Doman, 
David Brundage, Roy Smith, Larry Sell, and Betty Wargo. 


The eight hour classroom refresher course is designed 
especially for motorists over age 50. The course covered 
the effects of aging and medications while driving, basic 
driving rules, local traffic hazards, energy saving, and 
accident prevention measures. 


This course was offered free of charge and Old Kent Bank 
hopes to sponsor similar programs in the future. 


Cf OLD KENT 


Common Sense. Uncommon Service’ 


og 
7 


RES 


aoa 


ae arr nee 


ave 


Pe COL LET PIM PPE TAT, 
SELES 


es 
zf 


LAL. 


sey 


SIE 
Ks 


RGM 


ly 


bl 


Zi 


\ 


yy 
ZY 


dds 


rroubled waters, we're 
the friend you need: 


(x 

6 

a 

ps Wo IF protect your boat 

a nguinst damage. theft, and 

y) latubry cisks—i9 of out of the 

yy woler Complete an approved 

yy boating closs and reduce your 

a HERB OLSON 

& 114 Michigan Ave. 

y Grayling 
Phone: 348-9456 

, 
he 
y) 

re 
na 


Premium. 

Quality boot protection . , , 
from Farm Bureau Mutual 
insurance Company of Michigan 
Coll (oday 


me FARM BUREAU | 


Maki f 
__ Be. _ INSURANCE _ aking your future 


oO litle more prediciable. 


sv . 


Dont Forget Mother's Day 


Large Selection Of 
Hanging Baskets & Flowers 


CRABGRASS PREVENTER 
WITH IRON — 20LBS. $7.00 


GRAYLING TOWNSHIP 
NOTICE 


Please be notified the Zoning Board of Appeals will 
hold a public hearing on May 21, 1990, at 7:00 p.m. in 
the Township Office, 6539 M-72 W., to hear the 
following casas: 


Case # 90-8: Stephan Jorgenson, 
petitioner. T26N, R2W, Sec. 4. 
Shaw Park Road. NAD Zone. 
A request to construct a residence 60’ 
from the river, a varlance of 132' 
(Includes 8’ rise in bank). 


Off 


Case # 90-9: Gladys Munford, petitloner. 
T26N, R3W, Sec. 10. Burton's 
Landing. NRD Zone. 
A request to add a 16' X 18' addition to 
an existing residence 98' from the 
river, a variance of 102', a 16' X 30' 
porch 116’ from the river, a variance of 
84', and a detached accessory buliding 
161’ from the river, a varlance of 39’. 


Case # 90-10: Jay Jaqua, petitioner. 
T26N, R2W, Sec. 11. Off Wakeley 
Bridge Road. 

A request to construct a residence 67' 
from the river (includes 12’ rise In 
bank) a varlance of 133’, and 20° from 
rear lot line, a varlance of 30'. 


Tentative text and zoning maps may be examined 
at the township office during regular business hours. 
Correspondence concerning the request should be 
directed to” Grayling Township, P.O. Box 521, 
Grayling Ml 49738. Telephone: 517/348-4361. 
Monica S. Ashton 
Clerk 


Phyllis Barber 

Phyilis A, Barber, 61, of 

Livonia, Michigan, passed 
away on Saturday, May S, 
1990. Funeral services will 
he held Thursday, May 10, 
1990, at 11:00 a.m. at Soren- 
son Funeral Home, McEvers 
Chapel, Grayling, with the 
Reverend Michacl Conner 
officiating, with burial in 
Elmwood Cemetery. A Mass 
of Christian Burial was cele- 
brated Tuesday, May 8, at St. 
Maurice Catholic Church in 
Livonia. Following the serv- 
ice there, her body was trans- 
ported to Grayling for funcral 
services and burial, 

Mrs. Barber, a former resi- 
dent of Grayling, was born in 
Detroit, Michigan , on Febru- 
ary t1, 1929. 

She is survived by her hus- 
band, Jack Barber, of Livonia; 
one son: Mark Barber and his 
wife Carolyn; one brother: 
Raymond Schmucker; three 
sisters: Betty Lou Vuichard, 
Mary Ann Torbit, and Delores 
Shaw; two grandsons: Joel 
and Kyle. 


STATE OF MICHIGAN 
CIRCUIT COURT 
COUNTY OF 
CRAWFORD 


File No: 90-2258-DM 
GLORIA JEAN MOLOGIANES, 
Plaintiff, 
Vv. 
JAMES CONSTANTINE 
MOLOGIANES, 
Defendant, 
CHRISTINE M. BRZEZINSKI 
(P35405), 
Attormcy for Plaintiff, 
160 East State Street, Suite [I], 
Traverse City, Michigan 49684 
(616) 941-0771 
JAMES CONS'TANTINE 
MOLOGIANES, 
Defendant, 
c/o Crawford County Jail 
Grayling, Michigan 49738 
(Last known address) 
ORDER ‘TO ANSWER 
Ata session of said Coun, held in 
the Courthouse, Grayling, Michigan, 
on the 24th day of April, 1990. 
Present: HONORABLE WIL- 
LIAM A. PORTER, Circuit Judge. 
On February 27, 1990, an action 
was filed by GLORIA JEAN 
MOLOGIANES, Plaintiff, against 
JAMES CONSTANTINE 
MOLOGIANES, Defendant, in this 
Court for an absolute divorce. 
IT IS ORDERED that the 
Defendant, JAMES CONSTANTINE 
MOLOGIANES, shall answer to lake 
such other action as may be permitted 
by law on or before June 14, 1990. 
Failurcto comply with this Order will 
resullinaJudgment by default against 
said Defendant for the relief de- 
manded in the Complaint filed in this 
Court. 
WILLIAM A. PORTER, CIRCUIT 
JUDGE 
LEGAL SERVICES OF NORTH- 
ERN MICHIGAN 
by: CHRISTINE M. BRZEZINSKI 
{P35405) 
Attormey for Plaintiff 
160 East State Street, Suite ITI 
Traverse City, Michigan 49684 
Telephone: (616) 941-0771 
-3-£0-17- 


Shelter 


Friday, May 11 
11 AM to 4 PM 


Private Dining Room 
Mercy Hospital/Grayling 


Wish List: 


households. 


will be served, 


support 


for River House 


Towels/Wash Cloths, Dishwasher 

safe Food Storage Containers, Sets of 
Dishes/Tablesettings (Service of four fo set 
up new households), Hairbrushes, Light 
Bulbs, Games/Arts & Crafts for children. 


Donations will be given to the battered 
women who are setting up new 


Stop by with your giff and refreshments 


Thank you for your 


Newman Bancroft 
Newman (Norm) Roland 
Bancroft died May 3, 1990. 


He was a resident of 


Crawford County, and is sur- 
vived by family: Dorts Ban- 
erolt, Grayling - Erwin and 
Barbara Bancroft, Spring 
Lake, - Erwin and Eugene 
Kindler, Grayling - Norman 
and Vicki Bancroft, Grayling 
> Irene and Bill Gildner, Sr., 
Grayling - Larry and Janet 
Bancroft, Ft. Knox, Kentucky 
- Anita and Russ Hiltiker, fr,, 
Higgins Lake - {7 grandchil- 
dren and 14 great grandehil- 
dren. 

Norman was born May 12, 
1918, in Antrim County, the 
son of Lottie Mae Cook and 
Louis Bancroft, who preceded 
him tn death. 

He is survived by one 
brother: Robert Bancroft, of 
Hesperia; two sisters: Beulah 
Arrowsmith, and Erma Holli- 
day, both of Grayling. 

He was a disabled Ameri- 
can Veteran of WW IT. 

Arrangements were handled 
by Sorenson Funeral Home, 
McEvers Chapel. 


STATE OF MICHIGAN 
PROBATE COURT 
COUNTY OF CRAWFORD 
CLAIMS NOTICE 
Independent Probate 
FILE NO. 90-4734-lE 

Estate of Barnpa Lou Ksooure, 
Deceased, 369-68-5659. 

TO ALL INTERESTED PER- 
SONS: 

Your interest in the estate may be 
barred or affected by the following: 

She decedent, whose Jast known 
address was Box 2216, Rt. 2, Stephan 
Bridge Road, Grayling, MI, 49738 
died April 3, 1990 

Creditors of the deceased are nou- 
fied that all claims against the estate 
will be forever harred unless pre- 
sented to the independent personal 
representative, Betty Barrett, Box 
2216, Rt. 2, Grayling, ME 49738, or 
to both the independent personal 
representative and the Crawford 
County Probate Coun, 209 West 
Michigan Avenue, Grayling, Michi- 
gan, 49738, within 4 months of the 
date of publication of this notice, 

Notice is further given that the 
estate will be thercaficr assigned and 
distnbuted to the persons entitled to 
. 
Foster, Swift, Collins, & Smith, B.C. 
Charles A. Janssen P30453 
333 South Washington Square 
Lansing, MI 48933-2193 
(517) 372-8050 

-10- 


NOTICE OF MORTGAGE 
FORECLOSURE SALE 


Default having been made in the 
conditions of a cenain mortgage made 
November 7, 1986, by David L. Jones 
and Susan K. Jones, husband and 
wife, 

as mortgagor(s), to the United 
States of America, as mongagec, and 
recorded on November 7, 1986, in the 
Office of the Register of Deeds for 
Crawford County, Michigan, in Li- 
ber 254 of mortgages on pages 337- 
340; 

On which mortgage there is 
claimed to be duc and unpaid al the 
date of this Notice Thirty Fight Thou- 
sand Hight Hundred Fifty Seven and 
26/100 Dollars ($38,857.26) princi- 
pal and 

Nine Thousand Nine Hundred 
Highty Seven and 40/100 Dollars 
($9,987.40) interest; 

no suil of proceeding at law or in 
equity having been instituted to re- 
cover the debt or any part of the debt 
secured by said mortgage, and the 
power of sale contained in said mort. 
gage having become operative by 
reason of such default; 

NOW, THEREFORE, Notice is 
Hereby Given that on June 12, 1990 
at 10:000' clock inthe forenoon atthe 
Front steps (east sidc) of Courthouse 
in Grayling, Michigan, that being the 
place for holding the Circuit Court 
for the County of Crawford, there 
will be offered for sale and sold tothe 
highest bidder, at public sale, for the 
purpose of satisfying the amounts duc 
and unpaid upon said mortgage, to- 
gether with the legal costs and charges 
of sale provided by law and in said 
mortgage, the lands and premises in 
said mortgage mentioned and de- 
scribed, as follows, to wil: 

Lo139, Plat of Bennar Woods No 
2 according to the plat thervof as 
recorded in Liber 3 of Plats, Page 22, 
Crawford County Records, South 
Branch Township, Crawford County, 
Michigan, 

The redemption period will be one 
month from the foreclosure sale. 
Propeny may be redeemed by paying 
the amount of the bid at the foreclo- 
sure sale plus interest and any unpaid 
encumbrances on the propeny from 
date of sale. For additional informa- 
tion, contact UNITED STATES OF 
AMERICA acting through Farmers 
Home Administration, 377 S. Mt 
Tom Rd., Mio, MI 48647, mortga- 
gee. 

Dated May 1, 1990 


-3-10-17-24- 


Frank Davison 

Frank A. Davison, 75, of 
Grayling Township, passed 
away Friday, May ++, 1990, at 
Mercy Hospital, Grayling. 
Funeral services were held 
Monday, May 7, at Mount 
Hope Lutheran Church, at 
11:00.a.m., with the Reverend 
Daniel Lochner officiating. 
Burial was in Floral Gardens 
Cemetery, Bay City, Michi- 
gan. Pallbearers were: Bill 
Hartwig, Dave Jansen, George 
Johnston, Howard Schroeder, 
Bob Schulz and Jerry Zinzo, 
Honorary pallbearers: Henry 
Balzer, Don Chambo, Paul 
Mesack, Fred Mitchell, Tom 
Whipple and Jim Fleintein. 

Mr. Davison was born in 
Fairgrove, Michigan, on May 
18, 1914, to James and Anna 
(Trimble) Davison, and had 
been a resident of Grayling 
for thirteen years, having 
moved here from Essexville, 
Michigan, where he had been 
a quality control supervisor 
for Prestolite. He was a 
member ot Mt. Hope Lutheran 
Church, Grayling, where he 
was an clder of une church. 

He leaves his wife, Lucinda 
(Rickwalt) Davison, of Gray- 
ling Township; three daugh- 
ters and two son-in-laws: 
Janith and Robert Shaw, Bay 
City - Linda Davison, 
Essexville - Margery and 
Edward Franklin, 9 of 
Essexville; two brothers: 
Ralph Davison, Grayling and 
Clark Davison, Caro; two 
sisters: Waive McDonald, St. 
Helen and Leta Barriger, of 
Akron, Michigan; five grand- 
children and one great-grand- 
child. 

The family suggest memo- 
rials to Mount Hope Lutheran 
Church, Grayling. 


STATE OF MICHIGAN 

IN THE CIRCUIT COURT 
FOR THE COUNTY OF 
CRAWFORD 

NOTICE OF SALE 


File No. 88-1963-CH 
GARY ‘T. CLUBINE & BARBARA 
[. CLUBINE, his wife, Plaintiff(s), 
vs, 

JOSEPH 
Defendant(s). 
JOHN B. HUSS P15297 

Attomey for Plaintiff(s), 

Default having becn made in the 
terms and conditions of a certain Land 
Contract made, executed and deliv- 
ered by Defendant(s), JOSEPH TH- 
OMPSON to Plainuff(s) GARY T. 
CLUBINE & BARBARA E, 
CLUBINE, his wife, dated Septem- 
ber 24, $982, and a JUDGMENT OF 
FORECLOSURE having been en- 
tered in the Circuit Court for the 
County of Crawford, onthe 7th day of 
February, 1990, Ordering that there is 
due to the Plaintiff(s), ELGUT 
HUNDRED, FIFTY-FIVE AND 81/ 
1000($855.81) DOLLARS plus inter- 
cst on the principal balance due al a 
rate of nine percent (9%) per annum 
fromthe 2h day of March, 1987, to 
(day of filing Complaint) November 
30, 1988 and Twelve Percent (12%) 
from the 30th day of November, 1988 
(date of filing Complaint) to date of 
sale, logether with costs and expenses 
of sale and any taxes or insurance 
paid by Plainuiff(s). 

NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of 
the tenns of said JUDGMENT OF 
FORECLOSURE and pursuant to the 
statute of the State of Michigan in 
such case made and provided, NO- 
TICE is hereby given that onthe 17th 
day of May, 1990, at 10:00 o'clock in 
the fore-noon, said JUDGMENT OF 
FORECLOSURE will be enforced 
by a sale al public auction to the 
highest bidder at the front door of the 
Crawford County Courthouse in the 
City of Grayling, Michigan, that being 
the building where the Circuit Court 
forthe County of Crawford is held, of 
the premises described in said JUDG- 
MENT OF FORECLOSURE, or so 
much thereof as may be necessary bo 
pay the amount due on said JUDG- 
MENT with interest, legal costs, 
expenses and charges including at- 
tomey fees allowed by law and also 
any sums which may be paid by the 
Plaintiff(s), GARY T. CLUBINE & 
BARBARA E. CLUBINE, his wife, 
lo protect hisAheir interest in the 
premises, which said premises are 
described as follows: 


THOMPSON, 


LOT #742 of UNIT SIX 
of INDIAN GLENS of the 
AuSable (loincludethe 1962 
Champion Mobile Hore lo- 
cate therean, Identification 
4X 3343), all in South Branch 
Vownship, Crawford 
County, Michigan, accord- 
inp tothe Plat thereot. 


The period of redemphon expires 
six (G@) months from the date of sale. 
DATED: March 27, 1990 
JOHN B. HUSS, Attarney for 
Plainuff(s), 

GARY T.CLURINE & BARBARA 
I. CLUBINE 
Grayting Mini Mall 
P.O. Box 832 
Grayling, Michigan 49738 
(S17) 348-5431 
-5-12-19-26-3-10 


Anna Malloy 

Anna (LaMotte) Malloy, 96 
years old, passedaway Febru- 
ary 27, 1990. Funeral serv- 
ices were held on Friday, 
March 2, at St. Michael 
Church, Livonia, Michigan, 

Wife of Lawrence (ile: 
ceased), mother of 5S, zrand- 
mother of 20, great grand- 
mother of 18. 


ADVERTISE IN THE 
AVALANCHE 


Manistee area tree Planting: 


caused by five cars. 


Acknowledgments Concerning 
The AuSable Conservation Trust's April 2, 1990 
Douglas Lenz Memorial Tree Planting for Earth Day 1990 


The AuSable Conservation Trust wishes to gratefully acknowledge the following 
organizations and individuals that contributed to the success of ACT'S Deward and 


AFEW THINGS ONE TREE CANDO; | 
Provide home and shelter for our wildlife. 
Produce oxygen. Enough to replace the pollution 


Keaps Nature Ahyihms strong tor our children, 
grandchildran and ganerations to come. 


Thanks to the efforts of these people and businesses ACT was able to 
plant over 2000 Pine Trees! Now all we need is rain! 


-- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


TO RESIDENTS OF 
GRAYLING TOWNSHIP 


The annual spring date for the disposal of 
used household appliances and furniture will be 
held at the GRAYLING TRANSFER STATION on 
North Down River Road, oe May 26, 1990 


from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p 

PLEASE-~ NO COMMERCIAL APPLIANCES 
NO TIRES 
NO BATTERIES 


FEE FOR DISPOSAL OF ABOVE 
ITEMS- $3.00 per item maximum. 


Dawn Donuts — Grayling 

Denny's IGA — Grayling 

Dollar Wise Discount 

Goodale's Bakery 

Hardy's — Grayling 

McDonald's — Grayling 

Royal Laundry and Linen 
Service of Grayling 

The ACT Membership 

The giris from St. Mary's 

CCD class, the triplets, and Willy. 

The entire Lenz Family 

The faithful friends from Kalkaska 

The two couples that came to help, | 
because of the ACT road signs. 


CHIEF SHOPPE NAGONS 
MOTOR HOTEL 


PROM NIGHT SPECIAL 


Must be dressed in Prom Attire 


SEAFOOD PLATTER FOR TWO 


STEAMED CRAB LEGS 


DEEF FRIED PERCH 


SAUTEED SCALLOPS AND 


JUMBO SHRIMP 


DEEP FRIED FROG LEGS 
VEGETABLE DUJOUR 


CHOICE OF POTATO 


GOURMET SALAD BAR 


. == : be : 
. J ¢ 
sn 


THIS SPECIAL FOR HIGH SCHOOL 
STUDENTS ONLY 
Reservations 
Welcome 


Favorites 


recreate art tea Rk A APSO POPPE Pac A SAIN OS NITES SAP TT fa OATS ITC TELA Pit oe eit 


CHATEAUBRIAND FOR TWO 


TWO CHOICE TENDERLOINS, 
COOKED TO YOUR LIKING, 
ACCOMPANIED WITH FRESH 
BOUQUET OF STEAMED 
VEGETABLES, 
DUCHESS POTATOES 
SAUCE BEARNAISE 
GOURMET SALAD BAR 


$27.95 


STEAK AND SHRIMP PLATTER 
FOR TWO 


TWO NEW YORK STRIP STEAKS, 
SMOTHERED WITH SAUTEED 
MUSHROOMS, 

ACCOMPANIED WITH ONES 
DOZEN DEEP FRIED JUMBO 
SHRIMP 

VEGETABLE DUJOUR 

CHOICE OF POTATO 

GOURMET SALAD BAR 


$22.95 


ANT 


348-6071 


103 MICHIGAN AVE. — GRAYLING 


ee ye es ae ees 


ere 


rs) 


eae ey oe 


NO 


<2 Ferre, 


AA Aut 


SO PITTS 


Oz 


SPOR ST TESS 


4 


Page 16 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 
“CELELOEP ESSERE. 


ep 


WE 
Ne 


SS 


N AN 


ONCORE 


; SCRA Ae 
ees ' 


1 2 KID'S 3 RENTA A 
DAY NINTENDO 
Aas MACHINE & 
MOVIES 2 GAMES HB 
BENE i tape $5.00 fT gto in AND 2 
PLAY THE 10 11 NFEDA SEE Tha Circus 


Babar 


tuesday |° 


PLAYER? TARE 


GAME DAD ONE TODAY ANO Eon Rasen [Mate fo 
2 NINTENDO i RELEASED BE TURN BY 6 co Big Troudle Mouse Hee feloe 
GAMES FOR y) f TODAY MONDAY RIGHT inuittin (Perry Mason (207 
$2.00 of $15 ee ee 
18 f [asa * rie eee eg hee 
an a ) t sokei j a) " : anee ns 
ae one | um Houghton pal RES. eae 
“Vothers Se fGilligan Our Lives 
ane day MRELEASED ahr eo tee ieee 
Dat RELEASED Grayling! eS othy Big Ene 
— 21 Fresh | 22 23 ites 6 Best ces, sha gat . 
Fresh 2 Encyclopedia fFunnouse.... jrgeven.. 
Remember, ie Dat FAMILY playground | “HAVE A 5 |sthsisction |GhastCharge ‘News. 
Kids movies| jing ina fresh night | 70 THE inthe SAFE &FUN| [6 } lacie [NBC News 
onty $4.00 | flower and get a All G and PG FUTURE 2 North! HOLIDAY 7 ingutie Farnly Toes Farniy Feud 
pveueay ty _ meae ine lah de WEEKEND | [8 [! MRtbuuaw [enor 
ce ements aor Sant reenter Ratedeat SRNASANE Cheers 
27 FREE 29 30 31 Oe * {9 eng. 
LA law 
POPCORN | CITIZEN'S LOOK | OLD | | ae ee 
WITH MOVIE FOROUR | GRINGO Jetlesons._ [to 
RENTAL Dries RELEASED | : endeee ieee 
N 


FRIDAY 


180. WKBD  WPBN TNN  WCMU 
2 3 (50) 4 {7] 5 6 


May 11, 1990 


ESPN 
11 


TBS 
12 


WGN WHTV 
9 10[9] 


CBN WGTU 


] 8 [29] 2 


Wizard O2 Smurtly Today Show Business Fuanes Good Comedy CBS This Nation's Flintstones 7 
Tom Sawyer {Dally Ouck | - : Body Elec y: | rts, peisonniing) Tht. a3 (Morning: jBuginess:. _:|Tom & Jarry’ oo 
Pokterceist Chipmuaks Mr Rogers |Wowser Armeiied Boro Show Today Gulgan 8 
Ih The | |Maxie [ ee eet feee eee ee fZOOBHEe —— |Mapintown  f mig Meee ae lie Na Sporiscentar [Bewliched 1M): 
Other Skte Lite Rogts And VKieo Sesame (Our House Joan Rivers :Bugs Bunny mally Jessy Orgest Little 9 
ftlstory OF [House [Kathie Lee {Morning Streal ' ; _ Beaver Raphael. jLight/Side_ jHouse AU 
The NBA Petry Mason (227 Contact 700 Chats 700 Club ISuceess Family Feud {Lennis Movie 10 
bady Jane po Concentrat'n Reading We ee ae ease tat pe tte, lWhi Fortune [Sports | Spinout” ad 
Webster GoldGirls Lifpracy |Hearl Heart Mone Joa Rivers [The Price Getting Fil ll ; 
Nows 9 [M Warheld (0 By Consent (Scott Russ Is Raght Workout of a4) 
tlovalucy |News American Mystery Talk Strangers Geraldo Midday Body Motion {Parry 12 
meee fA Gatti” [Genorabions |Magazme f Ame: Baby  jLoving ee Young And |Bodyshaping {Mason acl be 
Orunk 4nd Hilibithes Days O1 Qutdaos Nova Various All My tNows Restless Galt Movie 1 : 
Deauty COUNG ON, ce [OUP EINES, (TEE BUR cos, eons Chels \Chadren [fold Beauty Inside/PGA |" Allin 4 {8 
2 The Happy Days jAnother Crook Chase |Journal ttaeel (Ore tile \A Griffith As The ISenior PGA =} The Family 2 
la Laverne | Workd jMusikc Shop [Honestretch | jlo live Honey mourer| World Turns {Tour Le en ee i 
Vestigatiun — jPorky Pig Santa Country Zoohbiles Father 'Gennsal DV Dyke Guiding ? ‘Ttom & Jerry | > 
3 _ fOucklaies  |Barbara = [funa [Mr Rogers [Knows Best Hospital COPS Light en ee eee Flintstones” 3 
Babi Chip N Dale 'Highway To = |Videogold Sesame Funes eae You Gear Bonahwe PGA Galt Flintstones i 
ee LOOM 2 SEMMN OURO: NORCO Pas cian cade POE ONO a SEES Pun NOR 2) cotise mete 12h Say 02 Brady Bunch Al 
5 Ol Towners = | SilwS ns ‘People's Ct (On Stage Reading) }Baterean Work? OF ich N Dale [Family Ties Munsters 
\ChasCharge [Nows 9 jAmencan (Contact ; Doney Funhouse (News { Good Times 5 
Who's Boss |Naws Magazine Newlon's 2010 (Mash Uhas Charge [News “THightghts (Hillbillies se te 
6 Poltergeist jFactylita = |NBC News — |Top Card Previews Rin tin | (ABC News [Hangin In CBS News Sporl's ok JA Grittith 
i tha Who's Boss [Currant All iMusic Row = | Business Scarecrow [Wh Forlune |AbCastello [Cosby [Sportscenter |dallersons = =r 
fF jOther Side [Family Ties [Family Feud (Video | Wid Amenca (& Mrs King | leapardy Basabaill Grow Pains Basebal ig Santord 7 rang u 
Tales Crypt | Movie Baywatch Holiday Wash Week = Movie IFutl Howe | [Ghwaga Smalltalk [teams tba {dellersons meal epee laidianai 
8 Hae Wal. fumes. en {FOUL [Wall Street) The Far Fang Martens Ven Cand Camera Be Bosebull 8 
UT) vil, /Rental Nasty Boys [Nashville Feesh Fiokis tMoueons Strangeas Cincinr ati Bagdad Cate oo. ey Allania 7 oa |" 
7 [Hear No mele To [NOW Slress | . 1001s . Sugarspice Al ; 9 
10" News Hardball Macnen 00 Cha 12090 Dallas TS tous 
ee Amen tn erat ier Rem MRC R CrookChase |lehrer : | |News Baseball : 
St Craey Sanloed News Holiday Mclaughlin Zorro News AbbCoslello [News Teams tba |/Wrestlng 
. .. ... pYallersons [Tonight [Gourmet Ot Record — Borderoan Nigh tiise Hill Stewed Pal Sajak CINE Pee econo 
Fall Guy Show Nashiville Movie “Ward Cop Blues Show —Ttove 
12 Chaton Letlorinan ow > The Far espn i iMovie BA Heat ath ol 
SUNDA May 13, 1990 


2 


2 


3.{50} 4 [7] 5 9 10(9] 11 


as 


aS 


3 (50! 


Sinuels 
jDatly Duck 


SATU 


3 {50 


_j Batteries 
Not 
jincluded”  |Chat 
Stas Trek 


Ta 8 


THURSDAY 


+ 


RDA 


WKBD 


Chipmunks 
_|Saved/ Belt 
National 
_... |Aeographic 
Synchronal 
Lwin Star 


Roller 


Walorsporls 


4 (il 
Today Sho 


WPBN 
4 (7) 


FarmR 
_..,Depuly. 
Kissylur 
... {Camp Gandy 
Captain 
Karale Kid 
Smurts 


Federation [Jub 


se__|NBC Nows_ 


GoidGiris 
_{Emply Nost _ 


Saturday 


Night 
Live 


MONDAY 


WKBD WPBN 
3 (50) 4 {7} 


Stat Search _ 


~TNN 


TH 
5 6 


WCMU 
6 


TAN 
5 


Bon 


Sesamo 
vee POOR 
Backyard Mr Rogers 
Gardaning — |Homerline 
SxlaSide My Studio 

[Outdoors |CpukiCheap 
Remodeling (Collectors 
Kichan  pBoater 
CatryMusic [Quldcor 
SieSide — |Ouldgors 


Frugal Gour 
VicVGarden 
Warksh 

Old House 


Ouldoors 
Remodeling 


At Home 
Long Lance 
Moyers 
Boat on 
' Nature 
Jubilee |. 
Dinah 
[Wh Music 
Church St 
{Opty Live. 
Barbera 
Mandrell 
Music Shop 
Connection __ 


Wanderworks 
Jacques. 
feousteau 
Lawrence 

_ {Welk Show 
Austin City 
Limils 
onesome 
JPine 
Special 


Mowe Hour Of darter: f f ’ aaa ve Movia Cont. |S ts Today St Busu 
: \ jSaartierss HF jitstone Jo Kenned La Jot S$ Center jTom & Jare ovia mur oday Show Siness 
ee ore - Mewia hs : Karurusby . \Weekend : [hou owen IDiscovery Bbdyshaping Funhouse f drittle Women [Datly Duck —[" ae _. .., |Bouy Elect 
agar ruth OF Jerry Mr Rogers (Swas Family toa Vv . Mac pt \Magazine. {Flintstones Big Trouble Chipmunks Mi. Rogors 
G |wisas or [Today Fate | Reading [Geren Waste his eee oe jenna Janae Blintute [Maes | Zoom 
Chimps Marve) Robert Speed Beauty (Sesame _ Clowns Kennath “TMass CBS Sunday ‘One Grand _ Brady Bunch "G [China Teittle Regis And Vidaa Sasamo 
G |say"P*_ [Universe [Schuller |frack" USA.” [Street | Get'Along Copeland — [Beaver [Mommg™ [Pax ot [A“Grthin Gri’ ttouse [Kathie Loe [Morning (Steno 
10 Anything Wrestling Sunday Powar Wonderworthks {Pale Past |Mussage Star Seweh 5 San Matino _ 10 The Perry 227 i Contact 
~ ana ont es {Today fhesNs ‘oe [Stereo Davai World’ Tew |Wk/Sporls |Movie. “UiChrisimas [Mason {Concentrat’y Aoading _ 
merican instoa Cup |Wonderwarks [Banana Brinkle Wester J Kean fh riers Wile Webster Gold’Girls Literac 
1] ron Eagle Gladiators __jMaetPress Champion: Bice tod Som. in Sisktbert  [Viealer Face Nalin Ganaoy 4 A jOeaaty Newsline = |M Warhekd jo Governinent_ 
12 i Star Trek Business Ship Rodno $[OttRecond | The iMovie { Folhes indy 500 ? Caro VLovetucy [News _ Amoiican Nature 
P . — {hile Easier JOuldoors  [Melaughie — |Viginian 7) Guasimoke | jl bo Great Hils = ___ {A Grittith: — |Ganerations [Magazine [Yo 
Movie Nows Bassmaster |WashWeek Return To "Lone Ranger "PreGame [Senior A Griffit “4 [Talk Sax Hillbillies Days Ot | Side/Siclo Proviews 
I Iscrooges [. Sinokey And|NBC Sports jMagazing [Wall Street [Ailleinan “Dodge Wk'Baseball Baseball [PGATour Loonies’ [gnugon”— fouttives [Pop Card, [chronicios _ 
The Bandit [Ringside Quidoors Firing bine | |Wagon fran itnay 900 Basedval) Detront ani aie 2 In The Happy Days |Anothar Crook/Chasa |Wid America 
Mo. ce. [Sportswodld [Heroes [A avinterest Tinie Voals | Ohitaqa Ve  |Misi Lavivehule Works Connection jHomesiralch 
Movie: i American Richard tay Vall T A : Ta lane aint ae Oo Spare a Sant “Tcountty  {Zoobilee 
; Americar whare Big, Valley w | ‘Toronto Tenné ¥ or Santa ountty oobilee 
a Ventanas | SIA 1 eee REE Sports Tucker Opera j iMemoral jCinannan be iid es Pe Pee Seah Oucktalos, Barbara Time | Mr Rogers __ 
4 rio yous Be Cavalcade = 1Gala jPumamoke Gott ' oe Winners Chip N Dale {Highway To [VKseogald = |Sasarin 
Estee stirring LMI. |NARA Today |Landnvarks VFourmnament : 4 ISenior Class [Funhouse [Heaven Steal 
Willow “Pvfesiyies Winstan Cup [Club Connect [tienen Indy 800” (Good THnes F |Got Marcied |SiSpoons [People’s Ci |GnSinga [Reading 
) [Ruch amous weer. Speed Beauty| Ongrass: be ee tiehy, <TD [Hogan [Tine Trials. Jeffersons 2 Big Trouble {Chas/Charge_ ews American Contact 
Stat Carer Truckin USA jLocal Bordanown Hee Haw Movie ony Dean In Lilthe Who's Boss |News Magazine Collactors 
te 48 Search. . News [Magazine | [Haroes [Zorg . iba CBS News 6 China Facts/Lile NBC News |Top Card Hometime — 
ne Do (t American La wren fe Ren Ties Life Coase leo M t — JItacehal Sr =F, Who's Boss | Current All. Music Row i- Business — < 
F encyclopedia Ouisiters _ fYourseit Ty. [Spats |Welk'Show (and) On Pegae Fong. 7 {Babar Family Tis |Family Feud |Video Givoaway 
Say Most Wanted |Story Behind |Cavalcade [Nature Ovieates funneest ‘Movie Murde Ba a ‘n~ lth 34 Jump [My Two Dade |Jubilee Sempra pi 
: ir : atl : ' t. The 21 Jump My Two Dads |Jubiloe Skyscraper 
Anything Simpsons |The Story JNHAA Today | pShapshot Mame Videos Tha She Wrote Heuston im take Se OE 8 Accused [Street Working Gurl [On Stage ; pean 
Married iMovie Winston Cup |Maslerpiece in Touch "Mov | iMovie At .—_ {National 9 i Alien Movin: Nashville Gorbachev's 
wee cee ies | Peep at dobes Vhonla. : \ Vlatoan Shattecad [Pristurgn __ {Geagiaphic oy pation People (Now USSR 
SCromgert Banker Like Us Outdoor Croaturas Loves H Wis Dreams ; Frantic News luke Us i Macnoil/ 
ae Part Bassmasters [GraavSmall [Ankerberg | t Replay | ih “ " Pan CrooWwChase |Leahrar 
soltersous News Spoed Beauly] Oil Moyors Varniuus Morsterss ‘Nows Sporlscanter” Future Watch eai1 07 Santord : Nows own Gospel ‘ = Gaptto} Rant 
r Ken Spots [Trackin USA | Tony Brown | [Winning Wik Mama's Fam Public, {Litastylas eee: Losa Weight 11 : Jatlarsous Toaight Jubilee $8 Holmes. 
wacle Copeland AlMovies Power Larry Jones Eotertamn 1 “hE an eg lpaany a alAccinn) EallGuy Show. dU Nashville Vuae 
tt Worldvision {Don lewis | Herves J Osteon this Week Move Nene tee. Dawe Word miw 1 AR Suds Saha ieee Now bes 


May 15, 1990 
ESPN TBS 
8 12 


TUE 


2 


SDAY 


TNN 
5 


WOMU 
6 


WOTU —SWGN 
8 [29] 9 


CBN 


7 WHTV 


D 
3 [50 2 


7 Wont Bay ick Vuntay Shuw Business iPunatos Good i CHS Inn "Nalions Flintstones 7 Encyclopedia |Smurts Today Show 
Q JPoice Chi a nis pooy Elect: <[Uiiies jMarning, Moning Business Funhouse # |Naturewatch [Dalfy Duck oP 
8 ree: en sf i Me Rogers IWowser [America Bozo Show [' fusinass {Gilligan 8 Bed Chipmunks 
Q [ie Framing Tite Togs Ang Wid Zone Mp OM cc fon flee nea fSPONCRNLOY [Bowlichest_ 7S eel ee 
O M : : bo Sesame ‘Our House loan Rivers [Bugs Bunny {Salty Jes Sanion i Little agis An 
10 conde Sie aun bea |Murning ae ee Cee Boavor [isp Sean tie Meee ene JF WSay House iKathie Lea. 
Sontacl 00 Club "200 Chat Success Far : ve OMin Anything... [Parr 2% 
Ae Mason Pore Ontcats Roading “ inte Whi eortune Moke 10 : i ; : ; Mason Concentra 
11 faba Belgrais : Womdeworkd teat tear! Home Joan The Price Galting Fa [Faynn” “ Wahstes Gold Girts 
12 ine tee . partied sty Si anteveksens Seo Ross ; Rivers Is Right Workou! ; Tidy Nowslino iM Warfield | 
Oust Oovelucy jNaws Amaucan Skyscraper Tath Strangers [Geralde i ei So duadation (Parry Mason. Endings. jt Love Luc Nows 
1 ial oe ih Boner guons Mee (198 fess ‘Various joweg hy as yout Beueeteping Sea dae Downhill A.Grittith” jJGonerations 
. OYE emodeling Gorbachev's  Varigus AttM Nows Rost! feeder A: dbted oe am wee oe Racer Hikbilites Days 01 
2 lero. |Happ cater Gn anh aM ee Children Eh pana he Bold Beauty Mine oe Rnttowe" 1 *  fGilligan [Our Lives 
Cone toow/Chase {Bill Mayor ‘tazel One Lite A Grltith As Tho jatonat [ : Happy Days /Another 
. Sa lava; _dtubiloe _ptomestronch ‘ iTo Live Hanaytnonner [Word Varns jMagezine tard 2 Poltergeist _ Lave Snirtoy World oo, 
3 y Paitin Zoobilee Fath Goneral D Van Dyke [Guiding IFishin Hole | y I The Porky Pig Santa 
4 Tine a ere ee Ogers , nows Best [itospial IGOPS jught ‘KID. Flintstones jOther Side [Oucktales = |Barbara “ 
} H Vidaogol esame IN IUES Onrah Yoo: Bear Denwhue cali g TFiintgtonas _ Wizard/Oz Chip N Dale [highway To 
F Oli siepasac? peaven Ge esas Strat Dinasaucers antrey Duchtales pens Brady Bunch eney eopanis Futhousa. Heaven 
Mh Ah cople’s Ct n Stage soading iBatinan World Ol Chip N Qale [Family tes (Play Ball Munsters AhanFiom |SilSpoons = [Peopie's Ct 
6 atte Wher ane a oe Contact Disney Pasty Ete Naws. ~ Biedky ard Good Tins 5 LA _ [ChasCharge {Nextt 
R Nho's Boss |News aga zine alarwerk — [Hardeasties ‘Eat Tonight (ChasCharqe {Nows 'NE fillbilhes i Who's Boss |News 
7 ums a vonet BENS : Nae MS rer Card Euatoy jMeGoemick ANC nee Hangin in CBS News cporleioan A Grituth 6 The Wrong, jFacts/Lite  |NBC Nows. 
sae au lusic Row USENESS caectaw — Whitortune Abbott Cosby Sportscentnr jJotinrsons Guys Who'sQoss [Currant Alt. 
8 aa ae se Lacmly Reud \idou. me Amnowa ja is King [Jovpardy” Besant — [Geaw Pans lgpentscentes |getenar® ay" Family Ts [Famuity Feud 
: Mallox: Special ova Move {Who's Boss jChaa Re eee Braves Sa Movie Unsolved 
9 ee best ie a Wan Wander ven Chin ago | escue 9tl [leans Tha piaves 8 Reining sit bgearios 
Nn The Heal ashvilla rontine Roseanne Atlant. / Chicac i Night Court 
1 ytralaweniat. INaee Ol The Night [Now haa: Coach. | ee [Mire Maina) srrenge MANQHI Ia J _E i 5 
alevCrypt |News Midnight |: Macred Wisely. a yerer taal | Meee Maat Tho life Ot WWaws {Quani 
. ‘ Y: Brom The i We NAWS Quunivis 
10 SNE So Calter {CroowChase |Vehrer ee soantihing |News Train {Bgsebal. (Move: Jimmy Oe leap 
nto ews Church Local Scarectow Nows : t t Teas tba | Destination. Reardon Santard News 
11 Tacit Jolforsons {Tonight Streat Haroos & Mis King [Nightline ti Steger ate ate yeaa ioe Third Jottersons — {Tonight 
12 a sonnin Fol Guy Show Nashville Movs Hod Copy [Blues Night = Degren Fall Guy Show 
é ou teliorman [Now Waco Arsenin Movie Night tiat Burn Laltnyinan 


GRAYLING HOUGHTON LAKE 


208 MICTHGAN AVENUE 
(517) 318-8942 


(S17) §22-1576 


3 {50 


M-55 ACROSS FROM LITTER CARSER'S 


4 {7} 


WEDNESDAY _ 


TNN 


WOMU 
5 6 


“1700 Chub 


__ JDinosaucers _ 


. J& MeCocmick 


~ CBN W6TU 


7 _8 {29] 


Sylvanians 
Hello Kitly _ 


Slimer And. 
Hin Telling 


Ghostbuster 


Funnies 
Littles 
Wowser 
Mapletown fT 
Our House Joan Rivers 
700 Club: 
Hoart/Heait 
Scot! Ross __ 
Talk 
Amer. Baby 
Various 
Chals 
Hazel 


Father 
Knows Best 
Furnes 


Batman 
ance fOlSNAY___ 
Hardcastlo/ jEnt/Tonight 
McCormick JABC News. _ 
Scarecrow 

& Mis. King |Jeopardy 
Movie MacGyver 
Carson” 


Wh ortune 


700 Club 
Hardcastle |N 


Mavie 
“KIT 


CBN WGTU 
7 8 [29 


Chicago. 


Businass 


Naws 


by 


WGN 
9 


Larry Jones 


Bugs Gunny 
. {Beaver 


Success lu 
bite 


~~ Toan 
{Rivers Show _ 


A Griffith 

__|Huneymooner 
D. Van Dyka 
C.ORS. 
Yogi Bear 

_ Joveataies 


Chip N Dale |F 
Fun House |News 


‘VAtianta 


Comady 
JHU Steaet 


WGN 


9 


ae 


WIV 
10(9] 


'Businass Fuanes Good pore CAS This 
: ‘Body Elect titties yMoming, [Tha Morning 
’ Me Rogers (| Wowser Ameznca Bao Show 
ar ,2oobilae jMapletown Pe pe be 
vdeo 'Sesarne Our House Joan Rivers [Bugs Bunny Eaally class 
[Morang Street foes one Beaver... pRBRNSE 
, Contact 700 Club 1700 Chab Success jFamily Feud 
MRORMING foie coool woe hea a CM Ele 3. ou IT Cte 
"Wonderworks |Hear/Heart [Home Joan Rivars |The Price 
we Of. Seo Ross fs Bight 
American Survival Talk Strangers Geratdo Maiday 
Magazine = Special Kitchen jloving. fo foun And 
Side’Side ‘Moyers \Vartous Alt My Nows Restless 
flop Card cache veo PORIS. LL. {chutdren. mene be acsoneen ne {ONG BOOTY 
Grook Chase ‘Editors tHavel Omer Life A Gaffith As The 
Oia jHomastretch jo 9 Live Honaymoone:|World Turns 
Country ‘Zoobilee Father Ganerat Oick V Oyke Guiding 
Jtme | [Mr Rogers [Knows Bast [Hospital Cops. flight 
Videagald Sesame Funnies Cpa Yog: Bear Donahue 
jaifevenaes. ~ {RUEOE Ls __Joinosaucers. Winfrey Ducktales of 
On Stage iReadin Batman World Of Chip N Dale jFamily Ties 
Amarican Contact. |) sne Fun House |News 
Magazine Frugal Gaur |Hardcastl Ent Tonight {ChasChaige |News 
_Hopéacd outdoor McCormick |ABG News [Hangin In [GBS News. 
Musk: Row Business Scarecrow WhFortune [Costello Gosby 
_[¥leo Wid Amenca |& Mrs Xing [Jeopardy jNight Court |Grow!Pains __ 
Speciat Ask The Or Movie Fathos Movie 48 Hours 
;o jOutdoors Zorro: The |Oowlng Ta cfveteeterre 
Nashville I Mystery Legend Twin Peaks Fatcan 
Now frases cone Bogins Pd Crest. 
Macneil) 700 Club Prime Time |News Knots 
Crook'Chase tlebrer 0 twa landing | 
IMusic Shop jVarces And [Hardcastle |News Comed News | 
On Stage —_ Visions & McCorm'ck |Nightlinag JH! Street [Pat Sajak 
Nashyille Movie tard Copy = | Blues Show 
Now Zorro The [Arsenio Movie Night Heat 


1019] 


Rocky 


Muppel 
Babies | 
Pee Wee's 

_fGartield 
& Friends 


a Shes 


WIV 


TTTTTT LLL LLL 


Ti 


May 10, 1990 


FSPH ‘TBS 
lit 


Nation's iTom/Jerry’s 
{Business |... Funhouse, 
|Business iGilkgan 
[SpontCenter [Bowncned 
'Advanture = tittle 

Pace ce eee ftlOUse 
iChaeseadn'g Movie 


jGhampionst” | Hero At 
‘Getting Fit juarge 
Workout, 


)Body. Motion Beery 
'Bodyshaping (Mesen. 
‘Track And | Movia 
Field 4 Nouman 
iChampionsh’ its That 
rodeo You? 
i Tarn & Jerry 
Shi Express | Flintstones 
PGA Golt Flintstones 
Cee we. JBtady Buren, 
jMunsters 
cease eevee fOOOE Times. 
Qigast Hillbitias 
Spocstook ___ [A Gaiflith | 
Sportscenter jJetlersons 
Ladies {Santor 
Pro Bowlers |Movis 
Tour. [A Oeath 
Top Rank In 
Boxing | Cahtorma _ 
fiasebol | 
Sportscenter Po 
Supercross jMovie 
Serias * Coogan’s 


May 12, 1990 


ESPN TBS 
ll 12 


_]World'Tmiw [Webster 
Dink 
CalRaisins _ 


Crosk 


Baseball 


Arkansas 
PN aes Soa 
Wichita S4 


_ {Sener 


PGA Tour 


“Sportscenter 


Generation |Beetlejuice, [At Movies 
IMSA Grand |Bugs Bunny {Anglers 
B fweoly [Angler 
Lassie Soul Train 
That 
Indéanapatis 
itlanan [500 Time 
Wagon from |Trials 
Big Valley Moinorial 
Seen af Tournament _jTba 
Gunsinoke ‘ 
_ [Wide World |} 
O1 Sports 
ABE Wows” | 
Zorro Paycheck __ [Fortune Hunt, 
Rin Tin Tin |WhfFortune [Baseball 
jCAnd T [Fame/Forlune(Chicaga | 
Movie: Sunsel Vs 
“Wanen {Beat _.fGincinnatl 
Obssessed = |Movin “ 
GeUARR Wrote) AS. eae oeces 
Wardcasie 
& McCormick J : 
Scarecrow Nows 
_pArsanio _.___ {Mo 
Hall 
Friday The 


CBS This 


Salty Jessy _ 
Raphael 
Family Feuc 


Prica Is 
Right 
Nows 
{Young And. 
Restless 
Bold/Beauty 
As The 
World Turns. 
Guiding 
bight 
Donahue 


Family Tins 


: Cosby 7 
_.{Grow/Pains 
Major Dad 
Nowhart 


Eveni With 

[e"Chutg 
News 

CBS tate 


Night 
Night Heal 


WHTV 
1019} 


Business Funnies Good i CBS This 
Body ffect  flities (Morning, Ph {Morning 
{Mr Rogers |Wowser America Bozo : 
nee sae Lae Cok) aha OEE rer Cee AP ETOR PATE TWEE 
Video Sesacio Gur Housa |Joan Rivers [Bugs Bunny {Sally Jassy 
Morning iss : oh ENN eats peaet Ten Fala. 
eee YGontact 1700 Club” 7700 Club uccess amily Feu 
Rondiay POO CMD [FOO CN finttitor” [Whi Fortune 
Literac Heart/Heart | [Home Joan The Price 
ssh hohe [Governivent Scott Ross f" {Rivers fis Right 
Amovican Ricnarg talk strangors Goraldo Midday 
Maga ¢ine plucher  |Snapshots Loving ‘aii . Young And 
Kilchan Opera Gala [Various | My iiday Rastless 
Top cord [landmarks Chale _|hvdien |News... 4Boutenuty 
{GroowChase [Cap Report |tHazel One Lite A. Griffith s Tho 
Church St Homosteatch fae Tolive.... jHoneymoona Work Turns, 
Country” Zoobilen Father O Van Dyke = [Guiding 
Time - Mr Rogers {Knows Bost COPS. tron... 
videugotd Sesame Funnws Yog? Bear Donahue 
Seis gerteun Dinosaucers pues ~~ 
lon Stage Roading Aatman Chip N Dale [Family Ties 
Rnanenn kes i. _\Fus House INGws. 
Magazine Old House Hardcastle’ Chas‘Charge |News 
Topcard,  |VicvGarden JMcCormick 5... {Hangin ia”. JCBS News 
Music Row listens Scurociow Abbott Cosby 
Video Wid America [& Mes King Night Cour! [Grow Pans 
Dinah Jan Raposo |Movie: Movie Jake And 
On Stage & Hes Music | | The Proud Tha |The Fatman | 
Nashvill Aaauean Ones” . Movie 
Nae ad Playhouse ; = {Hands Or 
is if 700 Chul: A Muiderar 
(conan ‘ Be Seater eae ye 
inah MacNan/ carecrow = |News omeay ws 
On Stogo Lobrar J& Mrs King  [Nightler Hil Street CBS Late 
‘TNastv Movie ’ Blues Night 
Nowe. Tho Proud Movie. Night Hoat 


WE RENT MOVIES & PLAYERS 


PRUDENVILLE 
VILLAGE SQUARE 
(317) 366-8728 


[Morning 


Whortune } 


_ {Workout 


“TMurph/Browa 
. Design Wome 


Magazine ¥ 
"Teight/Side __. 


Natron's Flintstones 

{Business jTom & Jerry 
Businoss Gilligan 
SpoiCenior |Bowitched 
Mon's tittle 
Volleybat [House 
Cycling 


{Top Rank 69 


[Backyard [Good Tunes. 
Instdo/PGA Hillbittios 

_{Sporstook 1A Grittith 
Sportscenter [Jeffersons 
Home Rien SanlardSon 
Magazine Mve | Oirly 
Baseball jOingus 
Taams Tha = |Magoo" 
: Movie. | Tho, 


Speadweek | |" 
Monster 
[Truck Racing [Atlanta 


{Sporiscemar |/t 
Basketball 


May 14, 1990 


ESPN TBS 
1} 1 


Business Fhiutstones 

Today 0. {Funhouse 

Gilligan 
_qsporscenter |Bewitched ___ 


Liltte 

House 

Movie. 
“Hawai 5:0 
Once Upon 

A Hine 


Ladies Pro 


Bowlers Tour 


Gett ing Fa 


BouyMation- 

Bouyshaping [Mason _ 

Tennis 

Cheers Tom & 

Leading 

Wresibing Flintstones 

Yee eee  fotady Bunch 

Play Bail Munstors 
{Brickyard | {Goad Tunes _ | 

Sports Hitibillies 
_{Sporisiook JA Griflith, 


Jotlersons 
Basaball. __ 


Sportscentar 
Motorweak 
Indy 500 
Man's Pro 
Volleyball 
Windsurfing _ 


Basaball 
Sporiscentar 


Supercross 
Series 


Jayhawkors” 


National 


May 16, 1990 
ESPN TBS 
1] 12 


_The Feanch 
Atlantic 


Golting Fit 


Workout. jAffate 
Body Motion 

Bodyshaping (Mas 

Top Rank 2 
Rowng Kansas 


City Bomber” 
Tom & Jeay 
_Legintstones 
Flintstones 
Brady Bunch 


Munastars 


Harness 
Wresting 


Play Ball 


Man Who 
loved Cal 


Dancing’ 


Sportscantar 
Baseball 
Quiz 


iMovie 
‘ Brandad 


23 Years Ago 


May 11, 1967 

The United States Naval 
Nuclear-Powered submarine 
Grayling is scheduled to be 
launched June 22 at the U.S. 
Naval Shipyard in 
Portsmouth, New Hampshire. 
This word was received today 
from Lt. Commander Seward 
of the Portsmouth, New 
Hampshire Shipyard and who 
is in charge of arrangements 
for the launching. The call was 
made to the Chamber office to 
ascertain ifany Grayling resi- 
dents would be making the 
trip to witness the launching. 


Look At Our 


American Legion Wolver- 
ine Boys’ State is a program 
for young citizens of Amer- 
ica. [ts purpose is to develop 
the responsibility of leader- 
ship; to prove the advantage 
of citizenship; and to promote 
the art of clean sportsman- 
ship. Douglas Wilson, son of 
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Wilson of 
Grayling, has been chosen by 
the American Legion Post 106 
of Grayling to attend Wolver- 
ine Boys’ State on the carnpus 
of Michigan State University 
in East Lansing June 14 to 2. 
David LaGuire, son of the late 
Merril! LaGuire of Flint and 
now making his home with 
his sister and husband, Mr. 
and Mrs. Charles Fick of 
Grayling, has been named by 


fe a! the Boys and Girls Commit- 


tee of the Kiwanis Club to 


, represent them at Boys’ State 


on the Campus of Michigan 
State Universily. 

The St. Mary’s Ladies an- 
nual mother and daughter 


" banquet was held at Wert’s 
"te Lone Pine Inn Sunday, May 
a 7th, following the 8:30 mass 


at St. Mary’s Church. There 


; wasarccordattendance of 91, 


Me with many here from out of 


town. Chairmen of this year’s 
banquet were Mrs. Fraser 
Dean and Mrs. Earl Whaley. 
Present from St. Mary’s 
School were Sister Cecelia and 
Sister Lawrence Therese. 


46 Years Ago 
May II, 1944 

May 12th has been set as 
National Hospital Day in 
commemoration of Florence 
Nightingale’s birth 124 years 
ago. Open house has always 
been held at our local Mercy 
Hospital on that day; how- 
ever, due to war situations, no 
observance of the day will be 


Past 


held this year at the hospital, 
The late Mr, Rasmus Hanson, 
envisioning the future necd of 
Grayling, conceived the idea 
of a community hospital, 
heading the list of contribu- 
tors, together with Dr. O. 
Palmer, who donated the site 
for the hospital, plus the gen- 
erosity of nearly every person 
in the county and some out- 
siders, the project was made 
possible and in August of 1910 
the ground was broken for the 
new hospital building, to cost 
in the neighborhood of 
$25,000. The hospital became 
a reality on March 28, 1911, 
Miss Shirley Murray, 
daughter of Mr, and Mrs. D.H. 
Murray, will represent Gray- 
ling High School in an invita- 
tional Typewriting contest 
Friday afternoon, May 12 at 1 
p.m. Shirley gained the right 
to enter the inter-school finals 
by defeating nine other final- 
ists last week in eliminations 
inthe local typing classes. She 
topped Betty Smith and Caro- 
line Post, who were second 
and third respectively. In 
between typing contests will 
be a shorthand and transcrip- 
tion contest among four stu- 
dents of the first year stenog- 
raphy course, Helen Gould, 
Dorothy Smith, Shirley Nel- 
son, and James Small. 


Quite a number of Gray- 
lingites took in the perch run 
in Lake Charlevoix Sunday 
and broughthome some of the 
big ones. Great schools of 
perchcould be seen going into 
Lake Michigan, and hundreds 
of fishermen were out in boats 
to hook a few of them. These 
perch runs are short and it is 
expected this weck will end it. 
Among those from Grayling 
were Charles Melichar, Fred 


CANT AN 


Lamm, Amos Hoesli, Charles 
E. Moore, Ernest Hoesli, 
Ernest Borchers, Fred Barber, 
Emit Niederer, Litand Smock, 
and Pat Walmsley, All report 
big catches and claim the perch 
were “Whoppers.” 

Miss Mary Jane Joseph of 
M.S.C., East Lansing, spent 
the weekend with her parents, 
Mr. and Mrs. A.J. Joseph. 

In Wednesday’ s issue of the 
Detroit Times was a picture of 
Sgt. Bernard Feldhauser 
cleaning up between trains at 
the Central Depot, where 
hundreds of servicemen 
freshen up before they arc 
grected by their families. 
Bernard is a son of Mr.and 
Mrs. Robert Feldhauser. 

A very nice time was had 
when the people of Maple 
Forest gave a farewell party at 
the town hall honoring Clyde 
Smith, Carl Richter, and 
Charles Owens. A delicious 
potluck lunch was enjoyed by 
all, Cart Richter and Charles 
Owens left for the Navy on 
May 10th. 

Mr. and Mrs, David Lowe 
spent the weekend in Mio 
visiting Mr, and Mrs. Herman 
Frank, Mr, Frank is Mrs. 
Lowe’s brother. 


69 Years Ago 
May 12, 1921 

The first baseball game of 
the season was played here 
Sunday when the M.C. Rails 
blew up before a big crowd of 
spectators and humbled them- 
selves before the All City team 
to a tune of 22 to L. Clarence 
Johnson and Claude Cardinal 
did the battery work for the 
AllCity and A.L. Johnson and 
Kenneth MacLeod for the 
Rails, Holger Hanson is 
manager for the All City and 
Mike Brenner for the Rails. 


City Team — A. Smith, Rey- 
nolds, E. Johnson, W. Lau- 
rant, C. Johnson, F. Bennett, 
Charlefour, Cardinal, J. 
Brown, McPhee. M.C. Rails 
-—— Hodge, Milnes, Berg, 


DeLaMater, O. Cody, 
Weaver, Dobson, Green, O, 
Nelson, V. Bennett, MacLeod, 
Johnson, 

Paul Zicbell is driving anew 
Ford and Nels Corwin is the 
possessor of a new Ford se- 
dan. 


Page 17 


ys 
SRS ENE ES 


Invitations have been re: 
ceived by ciuzens to attend 
the wedding of Miss Gerald: 
ine, daughter of Mr. and Mrs 
George Robertson of South 
Bend, Ind., and Mr. fferbert 
Sargent Wolff, son of Mr, and 
Mrs. HW. Wolff of Chicago, 
at the First Presbyteriin 
Church May 19. Mr. and Mrs. 
O.S. Hanson, Margrethe and 


-Ella, Mr. and Mrs. Esbern 


Hanson, Mrs. fh A. Bauman 
and Maregrcthe are planning to 


Forecast Period: 5/13 -5/19/90 


ARIES 
Mar. 21-Apr. 19 


Signs indicate a productive period ahead. 
Sell your ideas to top brass and be con- 


fident of success. 


TAURUS 
Apr. 20-May 20 


Be willing to make changes when the 
need becomes obvious. Clinging to out- 


dated beliefs is counter productive. 


GEMINI 
May 21-June 20 


A financial transaction looks very favor- 
able. Read the fine print fo understand 


the surprise twist as events unfold. 


CANCER 
June 21-July 22 


Thoughts may take root leading to reform, 
A pattern of growth and expansion is 


likely; an awakening of inner resources. 


LEO 
July 23-Aug. 22 


Contact with an institution is quite poss- 
ible, either in acaretaker capacity orasa 


recipient of such. 


VIRGO 
Aug. 23-Sept, 22 


Friends shower you with care and atten- 
tion, and you in turn, show great can- 


cern forthe well being of associates. 


LIBRA 
Sept. 23-Oct. 22 


The emphasis ts on business and profes- 
sional affairs. Efforts for achievement 


bring recognition and monetary rewards. 


SCORPIO 
Oct. 23-Nov, 21 


The need to push for reforms could find 
you out crusading for converts to your 


ideologies and beliefs. 


SAGITTARIUS 
Nov, 22-Dec. 21 


Concern in such matters as insurance, 
taxes, inheritance, etc. is likely. An un- 


expected development brings a nice sur- 


prise. 


CAPRICORN 
Dec. 22-Jan, 19 


Enter into cooperative endeavors and 
watch them flourish. Your public is wait- 


ing for youto express your desires. 


AQUARIUS 
Jan, 20-Feb. 18 


Working conditions are excellent and co- 
workers are very cooperative. Take ad- 


vantage of this very progressive periad. 


PISCES 
Feb. 19-Mar. 20 


Pleasurable pursuits are on tap for the 
Piscean. The office picnic could lead ta 


arather unusual situation. 


-- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


auond, 

Lou Mead has been ap- 
potted special state game and 
fire warden. 

Miss Ruth Brenner was 
hostess to 14 guests Monday 
evening in honor of Miss 
Donna Lockoff who was ccle- 


brating her birthday. 

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph 
Fournier are leaving Monday 
ona motor trip to Port Arthur, 
Canada, 


Born to Mr, and Mrs. Seth 
Chappel Tuesday, May 10th, 
a daughter. 


5 Before AD 


tC Aastern US GR ty 6 Mr Capone 

5 Spa autiers ? Chatter 

Q Range network 8 Breathednoisily 
Ae ey 9 Peak 
oe a 2 10 Vassot 
WA Koreade Y) Evils 

a eee ee ee 16 Conclude 

VP Geo cat yes 18 Hind 

tt acre 8 20 Relates 

PY bane s liye ee 22 Whistted 
22 Propagate: U' 23 Part 
25 Maweatace us 24 Circular 
26 Narngs NM & 28 Necessary 

2? Dans vie ey 2 29 Spirit 

gQ try Ww Crumbs 

nm Cas 49 Bulining cheer 32 Moredistant 

2 dat 30 Cindersof the comics ‘Kb Linger 

VERMA Gyan 53 Congers 36 Jalapeno. for one 
1 Youatrpine 54 Patra’ 37 Depressions 

V8 Wasno! 55 Deli breads 39 Male 

36 Place 56 .. Scot 40 Rush 

i? LGungr decision 41 LA foracast 

38 Maalens 42 Suants star Negri 
4! Shope DOWN 45 Foxy : 
$3 Nottneranomay ! Quarrel 47 Hoos drink 


44 Hoag openings 2 Account lype 
46 Batvspen tata 


any tobe! 


3 Variety ot Gails’ 
‘4 AlittleQephaa 


48 Landingcratt 
51 Francharticlea 
52 Because 


Mercy Hospital/Grayling 


, 948-5461 
Alter Hours MercyCare Clinic 
8 a.m. to 12 noon weekdays 
Noon to 11 p.m. weekends 
and holidays. 


(Eligibility tor Clinte Is 
determined by physician) 


THE SERVICE STORES 


14 
1 Block North of Downtown 


501 Cedar - Grayling - 346-5571 


Plumbing, Heating, 
Major Appliances 
BALES & SERVICE 
Appliance Parts 


Pump Service 
Licensed Plutng and 
Mechanical Contractors 


36 Years In Grayling 


Jack 


Millikin, Inc. 


Excavating 


Masonry Work 
Rodimix Concroto 
Complete Soptic 
Systoms & Cleaning 


— 348-6411 


Well Drilling 


WATER WELLS 
PUMP SERVICE 
Pree EStiates 
348-8788 
Lomi. hoof Grayling 
on M72 1 


NEIG 
Oe 2S, 
o B= xv 
Cy J 


4 a 
anMnce® 


Mac's Drug Store 
REGISTERED 
PHARMAC. "TS 
Phone 348-2181 
Grayling 


Clyde's Heating . 


& Plumbing 
SALES & SERVICE 
Licensed Master Plumber 
-~ FREE ESTIMATES -—-- 
204 ionta St. 

Ph, 348-9717 


RENT 


Place 
business 
front of 
8,000 readers 
by calling the 
Avatanche today. 
348-6811 


your 
in 
nearly 


SEPTIC SERVICES 
SCOTT'S SEPTIC 
SYSTEM SERVICE 

Instatiation 
Saget 
Rapairs : 
Rosidontial A 7 : 
Commarcial 
RADIO DISPATCHED « INSUAED 
NEW EQUIPMENT 
Noscommon, Michigan 


Groaning 
COMPLETE EXCAVATING SEAVICE 
Phone 275-5011 


First 
Impressions 


Sportswear 
Computerized Embroidery 
or Screen Printed 
T's and Sweats 


Your Design or Ours, We Can 
Print or Embroider Anything. 


348-8627—Grayling 


~ ARMY — NAVY 


Pineview 
Surplus 
& Supply 


Open 7 Day a Week 


517-348-8300 


PINEVIEW MOTEL 
| OLO 27 NORTH 
_ FREDERIC, M!..49733 


SUPERIOR 
JANITORIAL 
SERVICE, INC. 


Conmercial -- Industrial 


PHONE 
348-2114 


John D. Cherven 


Certified Public Accountant 
Grayling Mini-Mali 
P,0. Box 825 


348.2554 
Tax Preparation and 
Consultation, General 
Accounting Services. 


No 


M&M Crafts 
Mary's Corner 
Book Swap 
Mary Coy - Bill Coy 
Hand Crafted Gifts 
New & Used Books 


100 Michigan Ave. 
Grayling, MI 49738 


(517) 348-4731 
Closed Sun. & Mon. 


MYERS LAND 
SURVEY CO., INC. 


P.O. Box 831 
Grayling, Mi 49738 
Ph. (517) 348-4036 
MARVIN E. MYERS, 


LICENSED SURVEYOR 
Michigan No. 21600 


GOODALE'S 
MINI STORAGE 


24 HOUR ACCESS 


WELL LIGHTED 
DISCOUNTS ON LONG TERM 


CALL 348-9414 
Industrial Park, Grayling 


Charlie's 
Prumbing & 
Repair 


Charies Schoen, Master Plumber 
NEW HOMES, ADDITIONS, 
REMODELING 
WARN AIR BOILERS 


Phone 348-8517 
650 Millikin Rd., Grayling 


Mickey Perez P.C. 


Certitio! Public Accountant 


Milltown Corner Burtding 
M 723 East &E 75 Bus. Loop 


§17/348-2811 
OFMICE HOURS: 


Monday thru Feiday ~ 8 tS 


Grayling Hospital 


For 


Animals, P.C. 


TNAN. Miltikin Ad. 
Grayling, Michigan 49738 
HOURS. BY APPOINTMENT 
Or. Wayne lL, Castor 
Dr. Poul W. Mosack 
At all times Ph, 348-8622 


ALU ABOUT TRAVEL 


of HowgMon Lake, Yc 
Travel Arrangements 
The World Over 
Call Us For: @ 
© Airline Vichets a4 


(At Arepont Aitces) wry tay 


© Crunses © Tours © forcls © Car 
Individual and Groups 


1-800-622-0988 | 


366-6344 | 


2ND2 W. Houghton Lake Dr. 


—-——- Houghton Lake oc: = 


North Village 
Travel, Inc. 


Monday-Friday 9-5 
Saturday 10-2 


Northland Plaza Mall-Kalkaska 
A FULL SERVICE TRAVEL AGENC 


258-4123 
TOLL FREE 1-800-462-0501 


Back In the Woods 
ANTIQUES 


and Collectables 

COUNTY ROAD F-97 

1/2 MILE SOUTH OF 612 
Open 7 Days a Week 
14:00 a.m. to 9 p.m. 

Stop in and Enjoy the Decor. 
(517) 348-7761 
LOVELLS, MICH, 49738 


Jim (Jinx) 
Parkinson 
BUILDER 
Earth Borm Homes 
Custom Built Homes 
Remadeling & Garages 
348-B880 


Rt. 4, Box 4161 
Grayling, Michigan 


Wm. Giidner, §r. 


Licensed Builder 


Homes, Additions, 
Garages, Remodeling, 
Cabinets 
Caraniic Tite 
Roofing - Siding 
348-8472 
Route 4, Box 4306 
Grayling, Michigan 49738 


~ Beckett 


Contracting, Ine. 
P.O, Box 319 
Grayling, Michigan 497386 
Now Homes - Additions 
Remodeling - Garages 
Roofing - Siding 
Phone 348-7237 


Don Kernstock 


Licensed Builder 


348.8945 
P.0. Box 652 
Grayling, MI49738 
WEW HOMES, ADDITIONS, 
REMODELING 
GARAGE-MASONRY WORK 


PROPERTY 
PATROL 


RESIOENTIAL & COMMERCIAL 


By RU. Ruddy 
Investigation Sorvices & 
AuSable Valfoy Sacurity 

LICENSED ANO BONDLD 


S.G 912P O lan 
“YOUR SECURITY IS OUR CONCT RE 


Phone (517) 348-7339 
§07 Ottawa Stract 
Grayling, Michigan 49738 


\ 
\ 


A Drinking Problem? 


CAL Alcoholics 
Anonymous 
SCHREIBER | four, 20007 coied Moatng 
M-72 Weet. 


LICENSED BUILDER 
HOMES, REMODELING, 
GARAGES, ADDITIONS, 

ROOFING, SIOING. 
Raoule §, Box 5055 
Grayling, Mich. 49738 
Phone 
(517) 348-9344 


Richard Gildner 
& Sons 


LICENSED BUNDER 
New Homes, Additions, 
Garages, Remodeling, 
Roofing, Siding, Brick & 
Block Laying. 


SELE EMPLOYED BUUOER 
FOR JO YEARS 


P.0. Box 197 - Grayling 
Phone Richard 348-2928, 
if no answer 348-8208, 


= 1% is 5 

Dur Business is Building 
General Contractors 

Grayling Industrial Park 
2342 South Millikin Road 


P.O. Box 594, Grayling, Mi 49738 
348-5477 Office 


Mon. 800 p.m. St. John's Lutheran 
Chestnut Street 
“Irkroduction To AA* Open Meating 
fTues, §8:00p.m. Michelson Memorial 
Methodist Church-Michigan Ave. 
Closed Meeting 
Thurs, 8.00 p.m, - City Hall 
Fr BOO p.m St. Mary's 
Sat. 6:45p.m Camp Lehman 


For A.A. or Al-Anon 
348-2488 


Al-Anon 


Support Group for 
Family and Friends 
of Alcholics 
Thursday 7 p.m. 
Mercy Hospital 


Domestic Violence 
Victim 


Support Group 
Mon. — 6-8 p.m. 
Thurs. — 10 a.m.-12 noon | 


River House 
348.8972 


HOSPICE 


Crawford County 
Hume Hospice 
VOLUNTEER . NON PROFIT 


In Home Care For The Lerminatty Ill 
Collor Werle 


Phone 348-5499 of 
348-5461 Ext, 128 


e P.O. Box 2, 
Security/ {auton Grayling, MI 49738 
Investigations 
348.4353 ALZHEIMER'S 
Homes, Cottages, SUPPORT GROUP 
Commercial Meadows of Grayling 
P.O, Box 58 last Monday of every month 
Grayling, MIL49738 2:30 - 4:30 P.M. 
Licensed for further information 
eroceolMichigat Call 517-348-2801 


$G61137 PD1918 


(en) THIS WEEK'S KOWALSKI SPECIALS 
Kas. Smoked Kielbasa..............93.19 Ib, 


J 


: ey 
ree ALL NON-FILLED 
San rt) 
LONDON DAIRY ee | 


OM MILK 
$1.89 GAL. 


ORANGE JUICE 
$1.69 1/2 GALLON 


DONUTS 
30¢ EACH 


OR 
, $3.60 DOZEN 


LONDON DAIRY 


ICE CREAM 
$1 99 half gaifon 


Goopates Baxery 

500 NORWAY STREET COFFEE BAR 
GRAYLING, MI! 49738 7AM TO 6207 ONLY 
517-348-8682 


CLOSED SUNDAY 


URCH "DI DIRECTORY 


Sunday 
Matthew 
&5 13 


Monday 
Matthew 
6:24.34 


Tuesday 
Romans 
12:)-2] 


Wednesday 
Matthew 
23:1-12 


Thursday 
| Thessalonians 
413-18 


Friday 
Mark i 
£412.25 i 


A mother's love begins before she feels 
the first faint flutter of I{fe. It grows as she 
awaits this new individual who is developing 
as a unique person with his or her own dis. 
tinct quatities. 


A mother’s love continues through end- 
less diaper changes and sleepless nights, 
through report cards and puppy love. She 
rejoices {n each triumph and grieves with 
each tragedy... .atways there... nurturing 
and loving. 


God js like that... always there... 
watching over us as we learn and grow. ..or 
stumble and fall. He has created each of us 
as a unique individual. Yet, we share one 
common need .God's strong and loving 
care which can guide us along the paths we 


Church 
Hosts 
Singer 


Nick Clark will be in con 
cert at 1] a.m. on May 13 at 
the AuSable Valley Church of 
God, Frederic. A relative 
newcomer, he has performed 
a number of concerts ali over 
the state of Michiganand some 
in Florida since 1988. 

His music ts southern pos: 
pel and he received much of 
his tre'eing from singing in 
churchandattending the ort 
nal Stamps-Baxte School of 
Music which is run by the re- 
nowned Speer Family, 


in 


Is 


Candy Sales 
To Help Library 


The friends for the Frederic 
Community Library are scll- 
ing candy bars. ‘Fhe proceeds 
of this project will go to the 
Library Building Fund. 


First Baptist Church 
Of Frederic 


Rev, Jim Wright 
Sunday Sehool.........9°-48 a.m. 
Morning Worshtp........11 a.m. 
Evening Worship ........ 6p.m,. 


Wed. Prayer & Bible Study 7 p.m. . 


Christ Missionary 
Minister HA, Hennig 
4M. Wast of Frederic 
On County Rd. 612 
Sunday School... ... 10 aam., 
Worship & Prasie........ It acm. 
Sunday Evening Service 


Winter... 0.0.0. 6pm 
Summer. oes Tp.m 
Wednesday Prayer, Bible Study 
WINMO Rg ici ek waka deals Mets f pom. 
Summer. . atte .tpm 


Christian Science Society 
209 First St. - Suite 108 
Gaylord 
Sunday Service....... 
Wednesday Service... 


10:30 a.m 
8:00 pom, 


Michelson Memorial 
United Methodist Church 
Minister Dr. Dennis N. Paulson 
400 Michigan Avenue 


Sunday 
Worship Services ..8:30& l1a.m. 
Church Schoo! .......-- O45 a.m, 


Seventh Day Adventist 
Pastor, Arthur Myers 
Phone 348-5481 
Services held Saturday at Camp 
AuSable in fst buildtnp on the 

right off new entrance road. 

Church Service........9:30 a.m. 
Sabbath Schoot........ 10-80 an. 
Prayer Meeting Tues.. t p.m. 


Grayling Assembly of God 
Rev. Ron Voelker. Pustor 
Old 27 North, 701 Grayling Ra, 
Church - 348-8885 
Parsonage 348-25R8 


Sunday School......... tiacm. 
Morning Worship... .. {1 acm. 
Evening Service. . 6 pan, 
Wednesday -- Family Night 


Adult-Youth-Chitdren Sessions 
7:00 p.m 


Heritage Baptist 


{i John 1:1-4 
Part # 2 
The Heart ofl John 


personally Cod as manifested 
with Him, and rejoicing in Him 


John. 
upon historical facts commu: 
nicated by disciples who knew 
the person they were promot: 
IgE. 
the be ginning, which we have 
heard, which we have secn 
with our eyes, which we have 
looked upon, and our hands 
have handled, of the Word of 
life; 
fested, and we have scen it, 
and bear witness, and shew 
unto you that eternal life, 
which was with the Father, 
and was manifested unto us.” 
(l John 1:1,2). 

Receiving the revelation of 
the divine trinity brings us into 
the unique position where we 
can fellowship with Gad. 


Page 
The Bible Speaks 


“That which we have seen and 
heard declare we unto you, 
that ye also may have fellow- 
ship with us: and truly our 
fellowship is with the Father, 
and with his Son Jesus Christ.” 
(I John 1:3). ‘To know God 
and fellowship with Him is 
the highest of human achiceve- 
ments. ‘The great apostle Paul 
reminded us of this in Philip- 
pians 3:10, “That [may know 
him, and the power of his 
resurrection, and the fellow- 
ship of his sufferings, being 
made comformable unto his 
death.” This becomes our 
calling as Christians. “God is 
faithful, by whom ye were 
called unto the fellowship of 
his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, 
(I Cor, 1:9). ‘This fellowship 
is a natural response of our 
love to God, “Jesus answered 
and said unto him, If a man 
love me, he will keep my 
words: and my Father will 
love him, and we will come 
unto him, and make our abode 
with him.” QUohn 14:23). 


Knowing intimately and 
the flesh, fellowshipping 


the heart of the book of J 
Christianity is based 


“That which was from 


For the life was mani- 


AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


From Calvary va ee Church 


anheoloaiane hi erenindsd 
us for centurics that the chief 
end of man is to glorify God 
and enjoy Him forever. Truc 
personal knowledge of Cod 
and fellowship with Him is 
not only the highest human 
achievement, but conse- 
quently brings us the greatest 
amount of joy, “And these 
things write we unto you, that 
your joy may be full.” (I John 
1:4). ‘The Psalmist knew this 
centuries ago. “Thou wilt 
shew me the path of life: in 
thy presence is fulness of joy; 
at thy right hand there are 
pleasures for evermore.” «es 
(Psalm 16:11). The prophet ry 
Habakkuk said in 3:18, “Yet | er Bite ren, 
will rejoice in the LORD, I orrespondence °* 
will joy in the God of my Courses 
salvation.” Our Lord Jesus Send name, 
Christ told His disciples, a sper 
These things have I spoken Church. Rt. 4. ae 
unto you, that my joy might 4103-C, Grayli 

+g : fy y ng, MI 

remain in you, and that your | g9q7gg_ 
ee be full. Gohn | or ca(517) 348-4966 

My friend, do you know * ar 


qeause hrist intimately as your 
creator, and redeemer who 
loved you and washed you 
from your sins in His own 
blood? (Rev. 1:5). Are you 
expericncing His fellowship 
and joy? This is God's plan 
for every Christian fully sur- 
rendered to Him, 

(Hear “The Bible Speaks” 
at 12:15 p.m. Tuesday on 
WQON 100 FM). 

Pastor “R” 
"Phe Bible Speaks” is a paid 
advertisement and does not reflect 


the views or policies of the Crawford 
County Avalanche. 


ad- 


Free Methodist 


; a : Calvary Baptist 
oe eR . Pastor Robert Barnett Jaseph Carpenter - Pastor 
Hees Gah AAiUEAbH M-72 West 8652 W. Kalkaska Rd. 
Sunday School......... 8:45 a.m (M-72West)- Phone 848-8362 
TOSprice St Ph 34k s224 Worship Service......10:30 a.m Sunday School....0....., 10 am. 
Sunday School cece. 9:30 a.m. Eivening Worship... ....... 6 p.m Morning Worship........ tl a.m. 
Worship 100 ami Mid-Week Services Evening Service.......... 6 p.m. 
Neg ; nas Prayer & Prayer Meeting.....Wed. 7 p.m. 
Youth Croup vc cece 6:00 p.m. Awaliia Cibo ees Wed., 7 p.m. 
Quilt Group ‘Tues. ........ 10:00 a.m. Jehovah's Witnesses 
Choir Rehearsal Mon.....7:30 p.m. Church Of Cheist Hal Leas 


Luthern Vespers, Sunday 
WGRY 1230 Radio ....... 9:30 a.m. 


Reorganized Church 
Of Jesus Christ 
of Latter Day Saints 
Pastor Lacey Stephan, Jr. 
Corner of North Down River Rd. 
and South Millikin Ra. 
Chureh Sehool... . 9:45 acm. 
Preaching. eee TE Am, 
Midweek Service Prayer. .7 


Wed. 


Gaytord Christian 
Reformed 
Rev. V. Schaap 


Gordon French - Minteter 
Old US 27 at Skyline Rd. 

Ph. 348-8573 

Sunday Schoot........ 
Communion & Preaching. 11 a.m. 
Sunday Evening.......... 8 p.m. 


Mid-week Bible Study. .... ‘ 


The Church of Christ 
with the Filija Message 
Pastor Dohn £, Weaver 


Mr. Robert L. Kirn 
Phone 348-498! - Kingdort Hall 


Public Talk...... Sunday t0 a.m. 
10:16 a.m. Watch Study..... Sunday tt a.m. 
Book Study....... Tuesday &p.m. 


Ministry School. Thurs. 7:30 p.m. 
Service Meeting. Thurs. 8:30 p.m. 


Bear Lake Christian 
M-72 & East Bear Lake Rd. 
Sunday School........... 
Sunday Service,......... 


Pam. 


Mt. Hope Evangelical 
10 a.m. 


Lutheran — Missouri Synod 
Rev. Daniel B. Lochner, Pastor 
805 Old U.S. 27 North 
At the junctton of M-93 & Old 27 
Sunday School and 


415 Ohio North 
Sunday School... .. 9:46 alm. 


Morning Worship. ...... Hoacm 
Evening Service 6 pom 
Wed. Bible Study... 0... 7:30 p.m 


St. Mary's Catholic Church 
Fr. Michael Conner - 848-729 
Sr. Marita VMaceNalt O.P.- 
348-7857 
702 Poninswar 


Winter Schedule 


Saturdays 8 p.m. 
Sundays .. 8&1) aim. 
Weekday Mass 
‘Tuesday .. 8:00 am. 
Wednesday. oo...0.......10 a.m. 
Thursday at Hospital. 8:00 a.m. 
Friday 8am. 
Confessions Saturday 4:00 p.m. 
Memortal Day, July 4. Mlttown 
weekend & Labor Day . Sat. & 

p.m. Sun. &:00, 18:00. 12:30 acm, 


Christian Science Society 
Zone 11, LOB James St, 
Houghton Lake 
Sunday Service & 


7062 Kelly Ave, - Frederic Adult Bible Clags........ 8a.m 
Sunday Worship..... 10:@a.m. - Sunday Worship....... [0:30a.m. 
Sunday Worship.... ..? pm. . 


Wed. Prayer Service, ... 


Abundant Life Tabernacle 
Pastor Don Brigham 
211 Shellenbarger St. 
Grayling, Mich. 
Sunday Morning....., 
Wednesday evening. .. 


Grayling Baptist Church 
Affiliated with 8.B.C. 
Pastor Donn Broecker 

Meeting at 501 Michigan Avenue 
(517) 348-2457 


Sunday Bible Study...,9:45 a.m. 
Morning Worship.,...... 11 a.m. 
Evening Worship.......... 6p.m. 
Wednesday Services...... 7 pam. 


AuSahle Valley 
Church Of God 
Pastor - Marie Cox 
6330 Johnson - Frederic 


Sunday School........! {0:15 a.m. 
Morning Worship........ {1 am. 


evening Service......., 


.Tpom. » 


10:00 a.m. 
.7:00 p.m, 


St. Francts’ Episcopal 
Vicar: The Rev. Derik J. Roy. dr, 
M-72 West — Office - 348-5860; 
Rectory - 348.2682 

Sunday Holy Fucharist 
ite ieta tied A 8:30 & 10:30 a.m. 
Morning Prayer 
Service..........00, 10:30 a.m. 
The second Sunday 
Of Fach Month 
Healing Service On 
The 5th Sunday OF The Month. 
Adult & Childrens 
Sunday School - 9:80 a.m. 
(except the Ist Sunday 
of the month which 
is Family Sunday | 
Sunday nursery 


care provided....... 10:30 rtm. 
Monday; Adalt Choir 
practice, ............ 7:00 pom, 


Saturday encounter as we travel through our lives. Pastor dim Van Liere - 348 7699 Sunieg: Seno Tee t pm. 
Luke Reach out to God with faith as we pray for 1841 Hartwick Pines Rd =" a se Wednesday Prayer Service? p.m. 
17:5-19 His guidance and as we thank Him for 1, mile west of (-75 pce anal Potluck Fellowship 2nd Sunday 
erties Sanrio by TNS Ampicar Brin So0ety mothers everywhere. Sunday School. . 9-45 a.m. Pastor Gage iond UU ae 
Cocnogn 1986 Kester ita Nowscae Saniies POC Be BOOS Cratottesyitn YA 22006 Morning Worship 11sAcm. Sunday School. : 10 acm. morning service. 
oe : Evening Worship. 8pm, Chapel Service. . Wtacm. 
Wednesday. ........ 7 pam. 


A ae A eh rtm pee 


This Church Directory is sponsored by the following community-minded individuals and businesses 


AIR WAY AUTOMATION RIDLEY'S ANTIQUES HON. ALTON T. DAVIS HOLIDAY iNN CORNELL REALTY, INC. 
Specialized Machinery * 348-5176 Specializing in Camival Glass Circuit Court Judge 2600 1-75 Bus. Loop South CORNELL AGENCY, (NC. 
2268S Millikin Rd — Grayling Collectibles -- Primitives BRAYLING GLASS 348-7611 © Grayling, Mich 49738 REALTY ESTATE & INSURANCE 
CLYDE’S 6330 M-72 West © Grayling * 348-5907 COMPANY DAVIS JEWELRY +-75 Bus Loop South — Grayling Mich 


Hours 900am -6 00pm 
Your Hometown 


PIZZA HUT 


Phone 348-6781 and 348-6481 


CARLISLE PADDLES, INC. 
348-9886 — 4562 E Down River Rd 


Guaranteed Watch. Jewelry and Ring 
Repair in Our Own Shop” 
238 Michigan Ave. © Grayling, M1 49738 


PLUMBING & HEATING 


Licensed Plumbing & Heating Contractor 
C lyde & Deanne Weiss 


Ken & Carol Taskey 
503 McClellan © Grayling * 348-664 t 


DON KERNSTOCK 


348.9717 © 204 lonia © Graylin 400 State St BANK Grayling. Mich 49738 
M&MCRAFTS & MARY'S Ginsing 340 8888 eeeNerD au OF GAYLORD McLEAN’S ACE HARDWARE 
»Coasinict . 
CORNER BOOK SWAP ee REST ANEA NY Tone ‘ cn Sie Old US-27 North -- Grayling -- 348-5435 Complete Hardware —- Giltware 
Coy 880 es sins smi CHEMICAL BANKNORTH sone ibis 
. * oe Q-- 7312 -2931 * 209 So ames ® Graylinc 
100 Michigan -- 348-4731 SUCHETTE'® A COMFORT CENTER 2600 I-75 South Bus. Loop # 348-6511 ee ee GiCAViiNe FEEL sc me 
watt PETE TEE HIRE Wel acniehatincondse Grayling, nee 49738 o . 
ING 248.9612 — 808 Cedar BS a in the Rest ic Up te You! McDONALD’S RESTAURANT | Se nen 
Caring for the Quality of Your Lite’ he he ies ee The Miracle Mile * Grayling © 347 2064 “McDonald s and You" ns ep 
a 100 Michigan Ave MINER & SON ROOFING MOORE'S AUTOMOTIVE Breaktast served until 11 a.m on Sundays DOORWAYS OF THE NORTH 
Wayling - 348.5461 COMPANY, INC. 175 Bus Loop Soulh -~ Ph 348-2269 
, . 348.6731 -- 201 James — Graybna + , Mict 49738 2306 South Industrial 
HARDEE’S Commercial # Industrial ms Grayling. Michigan 497< Grayling, Mich. 348-5426 
Lica Arboiter Mgr & Staff Rooting & Sheet Metal JANSEN SORENSON AGENCY & MAC’S ORUG STORE 
arg Sar ae raeelrans 348-5482 a — Grayling ee Aer er a ia es, ASSOCIATES, AC. Your vendly Rexall'St 
Grayling Holiday Inn WARG S oc On Wh a ; S ; Or Frienc ; StOre 
( 348-5571 © 501 Cedar * Grayling omplete Insurance Service 22 Michigan Ave ® Grayling @ 348.9128 
HAMRICK REAL ESTATE €0. MILLTOWN MANOR ace 30 Vears in Sane : 348 6711 * 5688 M-72 Wes! © Grayling yar CAAWELADICOUNTY 
J Lee Hamuck, Owner-Broker Adult Foster Care AUTTER'S ACE 
175 Bus Loop. across rom 948-9647 — 808 Chestnul _ Graying paceman Mai LUMBER & ipsa aneabia tbe: 
3 € 3 apendable Trash Removal , Ay Cs 
ne fomecaniease. SUPERIOR JANITORIAL forbs Giayiing An BUILDING CENTER 106 Bulton Conky Grevings 3409897 
Fave ACIANE ‘ SERVICES, INC. 348-7218 ~~ 2086 Oliver 6372 .M-72 West -- Grayling 
~- HOP Commercial Cleanina Service WURTSMITH COMMUNITY Ph. 517 348-2865 of 617 348-2882 
Dan ne & Employens Phone JAB 2114 FEDERAL CREDIT UNION HOSPITALITY 
4601 Riverview Road ’ 
Grayhng 348-5283 ERNE S FLEA MARKET 2405 So. Grayling Ra (next to Kmart) HOUSE MOTEL 
Open 7 Days Year-round. 348-5695 Grayling ¢ Phone 342 84414 348 8900 * 1-75 Bus Loop No. ® Grayling 
sable ey ages 7M i of Grayling on M-7? STEPHAN WOOD PRODUCTS ELIAS BROTHERS’ This Church Directory ts 
TV & Appliances - Rent to-Own WORTHOPEDICS, P.C. 605 Huron» Graylag Mich BIG BOY RESTAURANT used by residents and 
Grayling ® 303 Jamas * 348. ¢ ORTHOPEDIC. SURGERY z Stes x . 4 + ry 
waving 8 8.2499 FORALL (Maieclets. enna a ele BEN FRANKLIN | Stop i alter ve for Brunch visitors 
CENTURY 21 RIVER beech tia: FAMILY CENTER 348.7654 #222? So Grayling Ra if you wish to show your 
COUNTRY REAL ESTATE, INC. 1200N Down River Ro Grayling Fabrics — Apparel = Shoes - Hardware AL BENNETT FORD, support for area churches, 
Sandy & Randy Thompson Tel §17- 348 2896 Auto = Toys Flee trea s Wis LINCOLN, MERCURY call the Avalanche, 348.- 


B48 2900 © Grayling Mi 4agy aR 


6814, to be Included on this 
page. 


5B8BM 7? West ~- 348.5474 


Ola 27 North © Grayhng © 348-8421 


Crawford County Avalanche 


Ti he Classifieds 


LOG HOME across from AuSable 
River near Roscommon. ‘Fhree bed- 
rooms, great room, fieldstone fire- 
place, modern kitchen. $46,000.00 
348-7934, evenings. 

-3-10/1 


4 BEDROOM HOUSE for sale in 
town by owner. Call 348-5994. 
-3-10/1 


HOUSE FOR SALE on Fast Branch, 
348-9046. 
-3-10/) 


FOR SALE OR LEASE- 50,000 
square foot warchouse, all or part, 
tailroad siding, M-72 East. 1-800- 
648-3507. 

3/29/ 


THIS IS YOUR DREAM HOME! 
4 bedrooms, 2 baths, dining room, 
break fast nook, den, parlor and more! 
Priced below bank approved ap- 
praisal. Ownertransferred. Call 348 
8014 or 348-9246. 

LOSE 


FOR SALE BY OWNER trailer with 
addition, roof over and basement. 4 
inch well. $12,000.00, L.C. terme. 
Calkevenings, 348-8428 or 348-7588. 
10/1 


PRIVATE3-4 BEDROOMHOME 
- Behind Fox Run Country Club. Full 
basement, family room with fireplace, 
attached garage, Satcllite dish, 10 
wooded acres. 348-2292. 

-10-17/1 


VACATION AREA: FOR SALE 
Pentwater-Ludington-Bass Lake area. 12 x 60 
Skyline Mobile Home. 2 bedroom, 8 x 12 addition, 
12 x 15 storage shed. On approximately 10 acres. 
3/8ths cf a mile from Lake Michigan. 


$22,500 


For more information and appointment call! 


517/278-5410 


Bai? dvetu, 


#2403 BIG PRICE REOUCT- 
ION FOR THE MONTH OF 
MAY ONLY. Reduced by 
$6,400.00. Asking $23,500.00 
Cash. 3, possibly 4 bedrooms, 
basament, garage, apartment 
above garage needs work. 


RACH RED CARPET KEIM OFFICE Is 


oe 
a N 
. 


EP yim 


Hy wl 


peaceful setting close 


$82,500.09. 


INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED 


We 1 Pe e ‘a 3 
CH-481—AUBSTIC LOG HOME amongst 
large pine trees overlooking the AuSabie. 
1,868 sq. ft, large inaster bedroom, full bath 
with door onto patio, tamily room with 
fireplace, generous storage and built-ins, 
tnisthed healed garage. Ail appliances, 
to «Grayling. 


-26-3-10-17/1 


TURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — 


4 s cf “s a 
#2457 NEW LISTING on the 
Manistee River! Enjoy the 165 
ft. of frontage from this very 
spacious 3 bedroom home. 
Gorgeous new kitchen, 35 x 17 
deck and over 1700 sq. ft! 

a Priced to sell in the 60's. 


Put your trust in Number One.™ 
EACH OFFICE IS INDEPENDENTLY OWNED 


River Country Real Estate 
-72 West, Graylin 


— CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — 


Ph. 348-5474—5474 M 


Grayling, M 


Moving Soon To Our New Location 


| 308 Cedar Street, Across From Spikes Keg "O" Nalis 
and Next Door to Murdocks Fudge. 


L REALESTATE 


is 


£ 


"a4 


#2234 COUNTAY CHARM! 3 


Cybart & Associates Real Estate 
(517) 348-4122 
5671 M-72 West — Suite A-1 
P.O. Box 836 


" Corner 1-75 Business Loop 
and M-72 East 
Phone 348-6481" 


AUSABLE RIVER MAINSTREAM | 


CH-478 HIGH BANK—Excellent view of 
river, spacious 2 bedroom Ranch, full 
basement, brick fireplace w/veatalator, (2) 
detached garages, deck, patio, dock at tiver, 
very sectuded. All appliances. lmnmediate 
occupancy, $68,500.00. 


pak eg Re et a ee 


AUSABLE RIVER FRONTAGE - 
Approximately 233 ft., near MeMas- 
ters, ideal building site, $23,200.00 
with terms. Call Duane Cripps, 
Century 21, 826-5584, 

Ant 


GRAYLING TOWNSHIP 
Crawford- AuSable Schools - 2 bed- 
room with another bedroom in base- 
ment, dls on 2 1/2 acres, Call Mark 
Dandy, home (517)348-8317orN.C., 
R.F. Simpson Realty, (517)790-0230, 
SAVOOLR/| 


AUSABLE RIVER lots nomh of 
Grayling - near Frederic Waterfront 
from $4000.00. Land contract terms 
available. Write “Gregg”, Box 214 
Whitmore Lake, MI 48189 of call 
642-998-9397. 

Ofhfsl 


“RICHARD GILDNER 
& SONS 


LICENSED BUILDER 
New Horoee, Ackitione, 
Garages, remodeting, Roofing, 
Siding, Brick & Blotk Laying. 
SELF EMPLOYED BUILDER 
FOR OVER 30 YEARS. 


P.O. Box 197 - Grayling 
Phone Richard 
348-2928 
IF NO ANSWER 


348-8208 


bedroom, 1 bath ranch style 
house. House Is nicely 
decorated on {1 acre with 
Wakeley creek running through 
property. This house could be 
yours for just $34,500.00, 


AL BC US NG 


| 

g 
2 
: 
1 
: 
| 
: 
: 
: 
| 


ichigan 


£QUAL HOUSING 
OPFOATUNITY 


Page 19 -- AVALANCHE 


CLASSIFIEDS MUST BE PAID FOR IN ADVANCE 


Display Classified Rate; $3.15 per column inch 


CLASSIFIEDS MUST BE PAID FOR BY TUESDAY NOON TO 
APPEAR IN THAT WEEKS ISSUE 
Minimum $2.25 for 20 words or less, 10¢ for each additional 


HOUSE FOR SALE - Lake Mar- 
grethe access, nice 3 bedroom ranch, 
fireplace, large deck, large garage 
with storage up. $39,500. Call 
Hamrick Real Estate Co. 348-5433, 
evenings, 348-8336. 

ANGE | 


LOT FOR SALE - 90 x 120 ft. on 
Maple Street. $5000.00, Between 
Smith and Vine. 348-4908. 
AOL 


AuSABLE COURT 200Mf1, residen- 
lial site, financing. Hall Southard, 
348-5965. 

S/tOnf/t 


MANISTEE RIVER/M-72 
BRIDGE 700 ft. highway, 300 ft. 
river. Income possibility. Financing, 
Hal Southard, 348-5965. 

S/EOU/E 

1-75 BL/AUSABLE BRIDGE - 
Commercial C-1 cotner, Zlevel build- 
ing site, high traffic, financing. Hal 
Southard, 348-5965. 

SARA 


HOUSE FOR SALE by owner, 3 
miles north of Grayling, 2 story alv- 
minum sided, 1800 sq. ft. 2 1/2 car 
Rarage , 2 1/2 acres with pond and 
island, backed up to state land. For 
more information call evenings be- 
tween 7-9 p.m. or weekends, 517- 
939-8523. 

V/V8tf/t 


FOR RENT EFFICENCY CABIN 
near uptown, $250.00 pee month with 
utilities, furnished. Phone 348-868] 
-3-10/2 


ASSORTED size stotage units. 
Please call Comell-U-Stor-lt, 348- 
6761 

8/2410 /2 


Hanson Hills | 


Recreation Area 
Reunions, Family Picnics 


Company Outings, 
Wedding Receptions 
For Reservations Cali 
348-9266 


2rettie 


fot -- $18,500. 


#2415 CUTE 2 
conveniently located in town, neat floor 


plan. 
$32,000. 


#2448 
AIVERFRONT HOME. 


with 150' of pone 
fireplace, 1900 sq, ft. 


tes 


| — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — 


#2350 AFFORDABLE 1 B/R HOME for 
recreational use or year round living. Lovely wooded 


B/R HOME 


Ideal starter or retirement home, 


GORGEOUS EXECUTIVE 


LAKEFRONT 


LOW WEEKLY RATES Carpeted 
rooms with cooking Faciliies. Spruce 
Motor Lodge - Downtown Roscom- 
mon. 


LR S24A/P0R 


OFFICE SPACE - 140 Sq. Fito 
1800 Sq. ft. available. Uuilities fur- 
nished, excellent parking. Call $48. 
5433, evenings, 348. 8336. 

AS 


2 BEDROOM Aparinent, water and 
sewer paid, for more information call 
$17-463-5025. 

2/1 81/2 


PROFESSIONAL OFFIQGE 
SPACE: 1200 sq. ft. Ind. heat and air 
cond. Ideal for Doctors, Insurance 
Agency, Real Estate, Travel Agency, 
ete. Grayling Mini Mall. Phone 
(517) 348-5323 or 348-2258. - 
S/24f/2. 


WANTED TO RENT - small cabin 
on Mainstream or North Branch of 
AuSable River, last three weeks in 
June. (616) 2/6-9747. ° 

-3-10/2 


NEW3 BEDROOM HOME - 1,196 
sq. ft. with attached garage. Almost 
finished, $52,900.00. Will mect 
Farmers Home Administration re- 
qitirements. Call 348-2928 between 
5 p.m. -9 p.m., or 348-5870 days. 
A/LOATSL 


HALL FOR RENT 
NEWLY RERMODLED 
LARGE PARKING LOT 


CONTACT 
EAGLES CLUB 
348-5287 


HALL FOR RENT 
At THE GRAYLING 
K of C HALL 
Catering Available, 
Alr Conditioned 
For Surnmer Events. 


FOR RESERVATION CALL 
348-2929 


gr8H/2 


2 ph 
#2423 
MANISTEE. 


Massive 
Calitornla Ladgerock fireplace, 2168 sq. ft. 
and 524 it. of frontage on the Manistee. 
$138,000. 


$54,850. 


on Lake Margrette. Beautiful fieldstone 
, plus quest quarters. $185,000. 


Call Joanne Shively, 


. a, 


RESIDENTIAL 


#2436 THIS 1900 SQ. FT. home with 
full basement on 2 tots may be the answer 
for the growing family -- recently rewired & 
relurbished -- Must See to appreciate, a 
real bargain al $62,900. 


MANISTEE RIVER 


= we 


100.8 FY ON THE 
Lovely full log home with 
gorgeous view of tha river. 
Fieldstone fireplace, and 24 X 28 garage. 


LAKE MARGRETHE 


JOR INTER VIEW - to another and 
hearing “Sorry we are not hiring” or 
“We are looking for experienced 
people only?” ‘Then read on! We are 
Century Companies of America, and 
you may just be the person we are 
looking for. We are expanding our 
persemal insurance operation in this 
area, and we are looking for people 
who are eager to lear our life, health, 
and disability products. In addition, 
we will be training you in our com- 
plete line of financial service prod- 
ucts. We offer a salary plus commis- 
sion, a¢ well as having a complete 
fringe benefit package available. 
Inexperience is a must, we will train. 
(This is not a misprint) Send your 
resume to Century Companies of 
America, P.O, Box 1280, Bay City, 
MI 48706. An Equal Opportunity 
Employer. 

-26-3-10-178 


LPN’S IMMEDIATE OPENINGS 
- for Med-Certified LPN's on all shifts. 
Excellent working conditions and 
fringe benefits. Send letter of intro- 
duction and resume to: Director of 
personnel, Alpena General Hospital, 
1501 West Chisholm St, Alpena, MI 
AYT07 of call 517-356-7355 to make 
other arrangements. 

-26-3-10/3 


NOW ACCEPTING APPLICA. 
TIONS: for summer employment. 
Full-time and part-time available. 
Apply daily at Grayling Big Boy. 
2222 South Grayling Road, Gray- 
ling. 

[R/SBINOB 


ATTENTION: Earn money watch- 
ing TV! $32,000/year income poten- 
tial, Details (1) 602-838-8885 Ext. 
TV6548. 

-19-26-3-10f3 


ATTENTION: Postat Jobs! Start 
$41.41fnour! For application info 
call (1) 602-838-8885, Fixt. M-6548, 
6am. -10p.m.. 7 days. 
-19-26-3-10/3 


REALESTATE SALESPERSON; 
prior experience required. Contact 
John Naour, Comell Real Estate, P.O, 
Box 527, Grayling, MI 49738, 517- 
348-6481. 

1/11 


— CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — 


A little or a lot - On the water or not 


We have what you're looking for! 
RECREATIONAL OR YEA 


R ‘ROU 


a 


#1926 COZY 1 


$28,500. 


plus, 
landscaped. 


1300 sq. ft, 


NEAR 


Ped 


#2124 NEAR LAKE ACCESS and just minutes from town. 
3 EVR ptus fixer upper Guest Quarters. 


1-800-432-4595 ext. C-21-J. 
Put your trust in Nun 


EACH OFFICE IS INDEPENDENTLY OWNED 
River Country Real Estate 
Ph, 348-5474-—5474 M-72 West, Graylin 


— CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 — CENTURY 21 —| 


ND 


OR 2 8/R HOME with beautiful 
brick fireplace on 5 acres, well wooded with pines. 
Short distance to Kneff Lake or AuSable Mainstream. 


#2424 BRIGHT AND CHEERFUL 2 
B/R home with attached garage, 940 sq. It. 
12 X #8 Florida Room. 
Located in Beaver Creek 
Township. Just 38,900. 


#2360 CHARMING 2 B/R home on 
high bank of Manistee River. Hot water 
baseboard heat, fower level features lovely 
brick freplace, and watk oul to patio -- 250' 
of river frontage. $49,200. 


RUWLDING TO RENT - 20 «40 
with drive-in door, M-72 west, } mile 
frony town, $350 GD per month rent. 
Frontier Buitding, 348-8358 
APL2L/2 


EFFICLENCY APARTMENTS 
FOR RENT - One and two rooms, 
$250.00 to $275 00 a memth, deposit 
required, includes lights and heat, 
sorry no pets. Call 348 7592 
1017/2 


FOR RENT 2 bedroom efficiency, | 
mile from town, $300.00 per month 
plus deposit, inchides ablities/cable 
TY, no pets, 348-2010 days, 348. 
8713 evenings. 

SAOUR 


FOR RENT - bt bedroom efficiency, 
| mile from town, $265.00 per month 
plus deposit, includes utilitics/cable 
TV, no pets, 348-2010 days, 348. 
8713 evenings. 

S/) Off 


HIGGINS LAKE - Small furnished 
cottage near water and shopping, 
patio, boat, no pets, available by week 
or month. (517)754.2510 or 821- 
&199. 
10/2 


WHY RENT? Homes for $1.00. 
Repos.. Gov't give away programs! 
For information !-708-742-1142 Ext. 
R- 1234. 

10/2 


FOR RENT - 1 BEDROOM 


CABIN - Partially furnished, 8 miles 
out of Grayling off West M-72, just 
across the Manistee River Bridge. 
$275.00 a month, $150.00 deposit, 
plus utilities, no pets. Phone 348- 
5154 or 348-8758 

-10/2 


WANTERD 1 - Experienced block 
layer for week end job, grayling area. 
313-392-3084 after 6:00. 

-3-10/3 


WANT TO HIRE - Young aggres- 
sive person, preferably between 18 
and 24 years old. Part-time growing 
into full time position. Apply in per- 
son at Continental Rental. 

-3/2H6f3 


Residents of Crawford, 
Oscoda, Otsego Counties 
SUMMER YOUTH EMPLOYMENT 


5 Fp fot 14 through 2$ year 
old youth - must be JTPA atigible 


Full time eampioyment at $3.80 per 
hour. To see il you quality contact: 


C.0.0.R. 

Intermediate School District 
11051 N. Cut Road, Roscommon 
or Call Donna Campbell at 275-5137 

19-26.3-10/3 


fa. 


Nicely 


— be AHNLNAD — é AYNLNAD — Le AYNLNAD — Le AHNALNAD — 


AC 


2, 


CESS 


Nang 


AKE 


8,500. 


L? AMUMLINAD — Le AYNLNAD — 12 AYNLNAOD 


Thursday, MAY 10, 1994 


(EMPLOYMENT 


eeeeruse te CU LOUnT Une ny SOU veCe POY Seg SUC te CaREY 


ms 
RN. LPN, NURSE AIDES 


immediate openings in temporary 
staffing poobin Mercy Manor our 
long-teem care facility, RN's and 
LPN's also needed in our acute 
care setting. We also offer 
apportumlies to apply for 
permanent part-time and perro sie it 
full time positions as they bacon: 
available LPN's rust be 
N.A.P.NLELS. cenified. Cenifics 
tiem 13 also required of Nurses 
Aides, Qualified candidates ¢ ail 
call or apply in person to: Mery 
Hospital, Cirayling Human 
Resources Departrnent, 110% 
Michigan Avenue, Grayling, Vii 
ADAIR (SVBAR SAGL Fete sian 
140, 

3/153 


REGISTERED NORSES, CT 
CENSED PRACFIAL NURSES, 
NURSE AIDS: Imenediate perce 
nent openings for RN's in acute cine 
and long term care facihty. Pena 
nent openings for LPN's and Mure 


Aides in ourldong term cate faciley 
RN's coast have corrent Michi 
licensure LPN's onus 


NLALP.NLEDS. cenfied, Nurse Ages 
must be certified. Excetlent ways 
and benefits. Qualified candidates 
can call or apply in person to. Mercy 
Hospital, Grayling Resources Deyuurt 
ment, 1100 Michigan Avenue, Gray 
ling, MI 49738, (S17)348 S401 Ex 
tension 140. 

BASU 

HELP WANTED - resident aticn- 
dant full time relief. Timibeeview 
Village Adult Foster Care, Predera. 
Apply in person. 

3-103 


MILLTOWN ELECTRIC js seck- 
ing full time licenced Journeyman 
Electrician. Call 348.5280. 
-3-10-17-248 


ATTENTION: Sharp individuals 
needed for supervisor positions with 
"I'm special", a new ladies fashion 
and accessory party plan, Call collect 
or direct. 517-697-3334. 

3-10f3 


ANYONE CAN APPLY! Guaran- 
teed Visa/MC, US Charge. Even 
with bad credit. Noone refused, cal) 
1-602-842-FOR7 ext. C1894, 
3-10-1773 


EMPLOYMENT OPENINGS Bus 
persons (parttime), cashier (part tir), 
cook (full time). Apply at Chaicf 
Shoppenagons, 103 Michigan Ave 
10-17/3 


NURSES - RN's and LPN's necded 
for immediate home care assignment, 
Hexible schedule and top wages. Call 
Allen Health Care 1-800 878 6079, 
NOE. 

10-1773 


ASSISTANT COOK - for resort on 
Higgins Lake, $200.00 per week. 
Michigan Catering Service. 517 192. 
2689. 


10-1773 


RESPIRATORY 
THERAPY 
TECHNICIAN 


Immodiato, — full-time 
opening. Minimum 
qualifications include: high 
school diploma or equivalent, 
graduate of A.M.A. approved 
Schoot of Respiratory Therapy 
(Technician Program) or 
Licensed Practical Nurse with 
current Michigan Licensure 
Excellont wages and benefits, 
on-site Child Care Center. 
Qualified candidates can call 
or apply in porson to: 

MERCY HOSPITAL. - 

Grayling 
Human Resources 
Department 
1100 Michigan Ave. 
Grayling, MI 49738 
(517) 348-5461 
extension (40 
-3- 10/3 


OFFICE MANAGER 

Administrative/suparvisory 
position responsible for 
clerical managemant of the 
office. Supervisory and 
clerical skills, including word 
processing and ability to type 


60 WPM. — High School 
graduata of equivalont, 2? 
years supervisory 


responsibility and 2 years 
clerical experiance. Salary: 
$14,682 - $18,793, plus fringe 
benefit package. Diract 
resumes to: Paul Cronstrom, 
Program Director, Central 
Michigan Community Mentat 
Health Services, P.O. Box 
817, Harrison, Michiaan 
48625. EOE, 

310 87/0 


NS Ie erneette a ot . 


Sales Professtonat 


$100,000+ 


or nore In 
Annual Conminissions 


. And that's averaging only ove sale e 
day! As you can ace, this is an opqgentinity 
without an canbigt veiling. 


In iwy nine peace with NRO Ve inade 
millions of dollars fue iy elite eaten tear 
Now Toneed @ fem more oulstanding 
salespecqle lo youn tne orl this agaie ssuely 
expecting, Gyan tmiiveim Sain 


P prefer filling avy positiona by i feral, 
ao itp rare when Tron an ed like thie So. a 
yu sre nunty one ahbere you all oon, yan 
say be the persons Fire tobi fee 


Call totay for an apponmtiert aia fice 
has torr. 


Jammet BO McCormick 
Executive Vice Preeldent 


NRC 

PO, Boy torso 
Columbus, OR didn 
1-800-848-7589) 
YN 
\ 


Page 20 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 10, 1990 


The Classifieds 


CRUISE SHIPS: Now hiring all 
positions. Both skilled and unskilled, 
For information call (615) 779-5507, 
Ext. H-220. 

-3-11-17-248 


JOBS IN ALASKA - Hiring. 
$600.00 wkly. Summer/ycar around 
canneries, fishing, constmuction. Call 
now! |-206-736-7000 Ext. $7912 
-3-10-17-143 


WANTED Person to rake lawn. Pay 
by the job, call 348-8497 after Sp.m. 
-10/3 


ATTENTION: EASY WORK 
Excellent pay! Assemble products at 
home. Details. (1)602-838-8885 Ext. 
W-6548. 

-10-17-24-313 


COOKS WANTED - Local restau- 
rant and banquet operation. Experi- 
enced only, please call 348-8337 for 
details. 

- 10/3 


COCKTAIL WAITRESSES 
and BAR TENDERS 
EXPERIENCE HELPFUL BUT NOT 
NECESSARY. 

GOOD PAY & GOOD HOURS 
APPLY JN PERSON AT 
GRAYLING RED BARN 

M-72 WEST 100749 


REGISTERED 


NURSE POSITIONS 
Medical/Surgical Units. All 
shifts. Full time, Part time and 
per diem. 8 and 12 hour 
shitts. Competilive salary and 
benefits package. 
Competitive differentials 
include per diem and wages in 
lieu of benefits for full time. 
Call or write for more 
information or to arrange an 
interview. 
Tolfree Memorlal 
Hospital 
335 Houghton Ave. 
West Branch, Mil 48661 
5§17-345-3660 ext. 151 
-10-17/3 


R.N.- 
EDUCATION/ 
EMPLOYEE 
HEALTH 


immediate full-time 
opening. Excellent 
wages/venelits. On-site Child 
Care Center. Qualified 
candidate will have current 
Michigan licensure, previous 
clinical experience, previous 
teaching experience, 
excellent communication and 
interpersonal skills. Calt or 
apply in person to: 

MERCY HOSPITAL - 

Grayling, 
Human Resources 
Department, 

1100 Michigan Ave., 
Grayling, MI 49738 
(517) 348-5461 
extension 140 


-10°17/3 


REGISTERED NURSES - Otsego 
Memorial Hospital has part-time 
position openings for Registered 
Nurses and Med/Surg, ICU/CCU and 
O.B. We offer competitive area wages 
and an excellent benefit package, as 
well as a pleasant and professional 
selling. Please respond between 
1:00p.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday - 
Friday to: Personnel Dept. Otsego 
Memorial Hospital, 825 N. Center, 
Gaylord, M?- 49735, 517-732-1731, 
Ext. 2393. E.O.E. 

-10-17-24-311 


ATTENTION - Excellent income 
for home assembly work. 504-646- 
1700 DEPT. P4558. 

-10/3 


ATTENTION - HIRING! Govem- 
ment jobs - your arca. $17,840 - 
$69,485. Call 1-602-838-8885. Ext. 
RG6S48, 

-10-17-24-313 


MASTERS LEVEL Limited License 
Psychologist to work with children 
and familics in Wexford County. 
Competitive salary and excellent 
fringe benefits. Send resumeto: North 
Central Community Mental Health, 
201 N. Mitchell, Suite 200, Cadillac, 
MI 49601. Attn: Outpatient Super- 
visor. EOE, 

-)0/3 


HAIR STYLIST NEEDED Apply 
at Golden Touch, Grayling. 
-10-17-14/3 


WANTED person torakelawn. Pay 
by the job. Call 348-8497 after 5 


Residents of Crawford, 
Oscoda, Otsego Counties 


MICHIGAN YOUTH CORP appli- 
calions lor 18 through 21 year old 
unemployed workers. Full Time 


employment at $3.80 per hour. 


Contact: 
C.0.0.R. 

Intermediate School District 
11051 N, Cut Road, Roscommon 
or Call Donna Campbelt at 275-5137 

19-26-3-10/3 


RESPIRATORY 
THERAPY 
ASSISTANT 


Immediate, full-time 
opening. Hours primarily 8:00 
a.m. {9 2:00 p.m. Minimum 
qualifications include: high 
school diploma or equivalent, 
current B.C.L.S., medical and 
cardiopulmonary experience 
preferred. Excellent wages & 
benefits, on-site Child Care 
Center. Qualified candidates 
can call or apply in person to: 

MERCY HOSPITAL - 

Grayling 
Human Resources 
Department 
1100 Michigan Ave. 
Grayling, MI 49738 
(517) 348-5461 
extension 140 
-3-10/3 


WWW Retail is secking a Pan Time 
Sales Associate for our Grayling 
location. Our Sales Associates must 


be aggressive, 
motivating, and 


ambitious, self 
able to respond 


enthusiastically to the needs of the 
public. We offer important fringe 


benefits, 


liberal 


employce 


discounts,and the opportunity to 
reach retail management and beyond, 
Please contact Store Manager today 


for an interview. 


Little Red Shoe House . 
125 Michigan Avenue 
Grayling, Michigan 49738 | 
An EEO Affirmative Action M/F/H/V 


Competitive salary 


The #1 carryout pizza chain offers you an Invitation 
to explore a career adventure, 


CREW LEADERS, ASSISTANT MANAGERS... 


Little Caesars allows ypu the opportunity to grow 
into a management position through our extensive 
Management training program, 

Join a company committed to growth, expansion 
and leadership in the restaurant industry. 


*Comprehensive benefits pkg. 

¢Pald training program 

Explore the advantages of building or starting 
your management future with usl 
bitious, hard working and can supervise others, then 
call: (17) 422-4178 or send resume to: 


LITTLE CAESAR 
ENTERPRISES, INC. 


126 Pinecrest 
Houghton Lake, MI 48629 
CIO Geoffrey King 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 


143 
MANAGERS & 
ASSISTANT MANAGER 
TRAINEES 


If you are am. 


Bei Melsa 


ATTENTION: — Excellent pay! 
Assemblc products at home. Details. 
(1) 602-838-8885 Ext. W-6548. 
-10-17-24-318 


IMMEDIATE OPENING for part- 
ume LPN, Northern Michigan Health 
Services in Houghton Lake. If inter- 
ested, contact Marj Kelsey, RN, Di- 
rector of Nursing, at (517)422-5148. 
-10-173 


REGISTERED DIETICIAN to 
work on a contractual basis in the 
following counties: Wexford, Mis- 
saukee, Roscommon and Crawford. 
Contract for up to 10 hours per week, 
and not to exceed 480 hours a ycar. 
Must provide own liability insurance. 
Duties may consist of: Annual as- 
sessments, consultations, in-service 
trainings, etc. Negotiable contract 
rate. Send resume to: North Central 
Community Mental Health, 201 N. 
Mitchell, Suite 200, Cadillac, MI 
49601. Attn: Dietary Position. 
-10f8 


AMICARE HOME HEALTH 
Services in Grayling has a part-time 
position for a Home Health Aide in 
the Grayling, Roscommon, Houghton 
Lake, Mio and Fairview arca. Quali- 
fied applicants will be aide cenified 
andhavean interestin working with 
people in their home environment. 
Wage hourly-dependent on experi- 
ence. Excellent benefits and mileage 
reimbursement. Please contact Chris 
Losce at (517)348-4383, from 9:00 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through 
Friday. 

-10/3 


ATTENTION FARMERS HOME 
ADMINISTRATION HOME 
OWNERS; If you are having prob- 
lems making your paymenis or back 
taxes arc weighing you down or 
maybe you just want to sell your 
home. We have been involved in 
over 150 FmHA Transactions, our 
expertise may help you. Contact 
Denise of Shelly at Century 2} River 
Country Real Estate, Inc. 348-5474. 
12/4 4t£/4 


MOWING - RAKING light naul- 
ing, painting, light construction, 
window washing, Call Jan or Steve. 
348-7675, references. 

LR6/28/90/4 


~~ Curt's 
Steam Cleaning 


Carpet & ° 
Upholstering 
— Cleaning 


Call Curt Feldhauser 
348-7250 | 


Great Lakes Tree Removal 


Stump Grinding—Aerlal Equipment for Limb Removal 
Serving Crawford, Roscommon, Otsego Counties 
and Lewiston Area. 

RESIDENTIAL — shor eB 
yc ae (517) 348-9233 After 5 p.m. 


or 1-800-726-9233 


Transmission Exchange and Salvage 
Overdrive Specialist, Transmission Tune-Up, 
Rebullts as Low as $224.95, Installed. 


County Road 612--Lovells, Michigan 
17) 348-3133, ask for Russ. 


Wood 'N Things « 
1 Mi. West of Grayling on M-72 


* Custom Furniture Restoration 


* Quality Refinishing & Supplies 10:00 to 5:00 
» Fine Handcrafted Gifts 


SWEET BOTTOM 
DIAPER SERVICE 
° ENUIRONMENTALLY SAFE 
° 100% COTTON DIAPERS 


Call 517-732-1943 Day or Evenings = 
GAYLORD, MICHIGAN 3 


NOW HAVE OPENINGS forhome 
day care license #FH2000223. All 
ages welcome. Monday thru Friday. 
Prefer full time. Call Denise 348- 
2177. 

-26-3/4 


ALTERATIONS A.S.A.P. Is your 
closet full of clothes that are to big? 
To small? To long? or just have a 
broken zipper. Call me, I can Help! 
348-1348. 

-26-3-10-177/4 


COME TO GRAYLING R.YV. 
CENTER for all your towing and 
R.V. Service & Parts needs. Our 
Service Deparment is now open 
Monday thru Saturday, from 8:30 to 
5:00. Old 27 Nosth. 517-348-8999. 
4/2674 


FOR SALE 
FIREWOOD 


OAK AND HARDWOOD 
8 ft. length-Buy It 
Now for Next Winter 


GEO. WARREN 
348-7133 


R5/17/90/4 


KUK'S 
EVERGREEN 
NURSERY 


NOW OPEN 


PEAT & TOP SOIL, 40 LB. 
BAGS - $1.59 EACH - 4 FOR 
$6.06. Great time to dig Birch, 
Maple, Mt. Ash at Wholesale 
Prices. Landscape sizo Mugho 
Pine, Junipers, etc., STILL ONLY 
$4.95 each, you dig. All spruce on 
sale including the Blues. We have 
hundreds of POTTED shrubs and 
tees AT LOW, LOW PRICES 
FOR THOSE WHO DON'T 
WANT TO DIG. Just come in, 
take a look and see why we have 
been in business for 29 years. 
HARDINESS, QUALITY, 
PRICE & FRIENDLY ADVICE... 
OUR POLICY, Located 8 miles: 
north of Roscommon on Old M-76. 
Northbound |-75 take exit 244, turn 
left 1 1/2 miles to blinkar, then right 
3 miles on Old M-76. Southbound 
-75 take 251 exit and follow Old 
M-76 signs south 4 1/2 miles. 
Open everyday 9-5 


(517) 275-8491 


10/5 


HOMESTEAD 
LANDSCAPING 


e LAWN 
MAINTENANCE 


@ FERTILIZING 


® FLORAL & 
SHRUBBERY 


e YARD DESIGNS 
SPECIALIZING IN 


Spring & Fall 
CLEAN UP 
"FREE ESTIMATES" 


HATES. Starting at $15 


SEASONAL RATES 
(517) 348-2615 


10/4 


S/15tH/4 


LAV5!17/90/4 


* 
%e, > Od 
"ey, ) 
traried & 


348-3249 


Have Saw Will Travel 
Quality Tree Removal 
| ALSO STUMP GRINDING 


Free Estimates — Complete Clean Up — Insured 


Foe Greer & Sous 
(517) 348-4171 


TRENCHING - FOOTING « 
FOUNDATIONS - Have Ditch 
Witch. Will travel. Call early for 
appointment and price, 517-275- 
5820. 

-19-27-3-10/4 


AMERICAN CHILD CARE has 
openings for one infant and two tod- 
dlers full of pant time. Cal] 348-4166. 
GD2000007. 
LR6/14/90/4 


LOVING MOTHER would enjoy 
babysitting your child in my home. 
72 East by Stephan Bridge Rd. Call 
Becci 348-4248. 

-10/4 


GRAVE MAINTANANCE at 
Elmwood Cemetery. 348-4032. 
-10-17/4 


NEWLY LICENSED 
BABYSITTER. #FH-2000231 has 
opening in my home. Clean, caring 
atmosphere, nutritious meals and 
snacks provided, Monday thm Fr- 
day, ages 3 and up, reasonable rates. 
348-4366 

-10/4 


TO LOOK YOUR VERY BEST - 
forthe spring season, call Lora Gould, 
348-2331 andtry Mary Kay, We have 
Sun essential to - "tis the season 10 
protect your skin. 

-10/4 


WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS: 
washers, dryers, ranges, micro- 
waves, dish-washers, disposals and 
water softeners. Jansen’s Sales & 
Service. 348-5571. 

6/25 /4 


Complete Septic Tank 
Installation & Cleaning 


Jack Millikin, Inc. 
348-8411 


10/1 18/4 


THE FRAME SHOP 
CUSTOM FRAMING 
AND MATTING. 
Services are Avaliable 
By Calling 348-8817 
FOR APPOINTMENT 
12/4 TF/4 


HAVE YOUR SEPTIC TANK 
PUMPED BY 5 
AuSable Septic 


Service 
LOUIE MAURER 
948-9088 or 348-9233 ee 


JAN'S 
CUSTOM SHIRTS 
710 MADSEN ST. 
Mothers Day Sale 


SAVE up to 50% OFF ~ 
MAY 3-5—9 a.m. to 6 p.m." 


Lon's Pump & 


Plumbing Repair 
MASTER PLUMBER 
21 YEARS EXPERIENCE 
—~ INSURED — 
CALL 348-8585 
AFTER 5:00 P.M. sion 


HUBER'S 
CAR CLEANING 
FOR PROFESSIONALLY 
CLEANED CARS 
INSIDE AND OUT 
BY CHUCK HUBER 
348-5836 


AIBERS 
MECHANICAL 


+ Hot Water Heating Systems 
+ Water Heaters 
SALES & INSTALLATION 
Licensed Boiler Specialists 


348-8006 


0-17/4 


ODD-JOB 
ENTERPRISES 
LET US DO YOUR 


SMALL HOME REPAIRS 
FREE ESTIMATES 


CALL 
LTC, NORM SCHMOOCK 
Ret.) 
348-5132 


No Odd Jobs Too Small for Odd Job 
L2/1B ud 


QUALITY 
CARPETING 
& FLOOR 
COVERING 
Professional 
Carpet Cleaning 
& Instatlation 


ps WILTSE : 
CARPET yay & SEAVICE 
WENDY CANE A 
GRAYLING — 348-5658 


(6) 


To soften 
the sorrow, 
To comfort 
the living, 
Flowers Say It Best!® 


MainStreet 


Florals 
227 Michigan Ave. 
348-7423—Grayling 


DOLL’S BY BARBARA - classes - 
Porcelain dolls, Tuesday - Thursday. 
Call forappointment. 517-348-8350. 
4[26£/4 


HATE HOUSE WORK? Spring 
house cleaning? 1 do quality work!! 
Call Cindy. 821-5171 

3726/4 


EAZ-LIFT trailer hitches and 
towing products and all types of 
accessories. Dealer programs 
available. Milltown Motors, I-75 
Business Loop South. 

5/251f/4 


GREEN EARTH ENTERPRISES 
- Quality lawn care. We also fertilize, 
rake, ull, prune, plant and more. Free 
estimates. Call 821-5171. 

3/20f/4 


PIANO TUNING and repairs. 
Rogers Piano Service, Fairview, MI 
48621. Over 20 years experience. 
517-848-2262. 

3/1%£/4 


6 PLACE CANOE TRAILER 
$160. Full size double bed - complete 
$55. 348-3241. 

10/5 


FOR SALE - Garden Way Model 26 
cart brand new still in box, $200.00. 
348-2347, aftemoons. 

-10/5 


CAMPER TRAILER 69 Orbit - 20 
foot. with awning, sleeps 8, good 
condition. Price $2,200, Call 348- 
3264. 

-10-17/5 


FOR SALE: Kenmore frostfree 
refrigerator, white, texture doors. 
Kenmore gas range white, black glass 
door, both one year old, under war- 
ranty, excellent condition, Must sell 
call 348-5626. 

-10/5 


CANOE .- Sawyer (6' fiberglass, 2- 
Carlise paddles, 2 tifevests, 37# thrust 
Minnikota electric motor, $350,00 for 
lot. 348-8783. 
-10-17-24-31/5 


FOR SALE Drili press $100.00, 
Dune buggy $200.00, Case farm trac- 
tor $1000.00, 72 VW Bus $1000.00, 
Camper $600.00, VW Bug dunce 
buggy parts. 348-3218. 

-10-17/5 


FOR SALE 8 ' slide in popup pickup 
camper in good condition $400.00. 
Phone (517) 348-2322. 

-10-17/5 


1990 QUAD RUNNER EL160, new 
cost $2500.00, must sett 1500.00. 
Truckmate tool box full size $50.00. 
348-5698. 

-10-17/5 


ST. FRANCIS THRIFT SHOP has 
for sale: Refrigerator, table and 6 
chairs; end tables, etc, lots of new 
summer clothing. 348-2572. 
-10-17/5 


MOVING - FURNITURE SALE - 
Dining room table/6 chairs, dark 
wood; two bedroom sets; sofa, end 


| tables, lamps; Lowrey Organ, walnut 


with brass symphonizer and many 
more features. after 5 p.m. call (616) 
587-9847. 

10/5 


RUGER 22 Target pistol with locked 
carrying case, like new, $200.00, Call 
348-7186 after 4:00p.m. 

“10/5 


SHORESTATION BOAT HOIST, 
Lake Margrethe, $300,00, 313-647- 
4107 or 348-9034. 

-10/5 


BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY - 
Your chance to set up your own sport- 
ing goods shop for under $9,000. 
Basicinventory, including trout flies, 
archery supplies, camoclothing, fish- 
ing equipment, plus fixtures, cash 
register, and much more. Call 
(517)348-9419 or 348-2187. 
-10-17/5 


WOLF HI-BRED CUBS - 77% 
specially bred for disposition. Call 
Wolf Haven Kennels, $350.00. 517- 
833-7453. 

“10/5 


MOTHERS DAY SPECIAL - Afni- 
can Violets, by Don Geiss, Free de- 
livery on May 12 and May 13 any- 
where in Crawford County. Our 
choice of color. $4.50 cach. Call 
348-5657. 

-10/5 


SHOW HER YOUR LOVE - on 
Mother's day with an African Violet 
by Don Geiss. Sec them at Chief 
Shoppenagon’s lobby display. Pur- 
chase from An Clough Realty office, 
500 McLellan St. 

-10/5 


CRAFTMAN RIDING MOWER- 
12 HP, 6 speed, 38 inch cut, 1 year 
old, $1000.00. 616-258-8735. 
-3-10/5 


ROTOTILLER , $65.00; dining 
room hutch, server, table with two 
leayes and six chairs, $1200.00; Rust 
couch and chair, $150.00; Lazy boy 
recliner rocker, $150.00; piano, 
$325.00; antique cherry desk, 
$125.00; free cement blocks. 348- 
8776. 

-3-10/5 


1983 GOLDWING 1100, FULL 
DRESS, $3000.00; Pine Ridge Road, 
off Chase Bridge Rd. 

-3-10/5 ( 


APPLIANCE PARTS available at 
Jansen's Sales and Service, 50! 
Cedar Street, Call 348-5571. 
6/251f/5 


HOT WATER HEATING 
SYSTEMS, fumaces-standard and 
high efficiency models, water 
heaters & softeners. Grayling 
Fuclgas & Appliances, 348-6241. 
1/2Hf/5 


PICKUP CAPS by Galaxie, 
Milltown Motors South, sunroofs 
sold and installed, 348-7352. 
TALES 


APPLIANCES FOR SALE- 
Jacuzzi and Charmglow gas grills, 
Magic Chef washers, dyers, 
refrigerators, gas ranges and 
dishwashers, Grayling Fuclgas & 
Appliances, 348-6241. 

12/1 1/5 


RECONDITIONED WASHERS, 
refrigerators, dryers, and ranges, 
$100.00 and up with warranties. 
AAAA Appliance Repair, 204 
James, Grayling, 517 348-5081. 
Neat to Sears Store. 

2/1tf/S 


DON’T THROW AWAY your 
cordless phone! Give them new 
life. Batteries and repair, AAAA 
Appliance Repair, 204 James, 
Grayling, 517 348-5081, Nextto 
Scars Store. 

2/ltt 


USED WEDDING GOWN - size 
12P, Ivory color, veil included. Call 
348-4094 after 5:00 p.m. 

4/26f/5 


MAKE AN OFFER: 1977 Execu- 
tive 15'x65' mobile home by Patriot. 
Valued at$10,015.00, Buyertomove 
to anew location. Call Karen at 616- 
946-8744 

AALS 


QUALITY OAK FIREWOOD - 
cut, split, delivered. 5 cord’s mini- 
mum, $30.00 per cord. Call (517) 
348-7046. 

LR5/31/90/5 


FOR SALE - Hardwood firewood, 
cut and split or 8 foot lengths. Dis- 
counts on 10 cords or more. (517) 
348-8924. 

4/1 HE/5 


VAGABOND 5TH WHEEL - self 
contained, $1200.00 or best offer,Pine 
Ridge Road, off Chase Bridge Rd. 
-3/10/5 


1983 HONDA GOLD WING AS- 
PENCADE-22,000miles,$4,000.00 
firm, 348-8022 days, 348-2597 eve- 
nings. , 


5/uf/5 


FOR SALE: Gas range. White. 
Very good condition. $75 or best 
offer, 348-2099, 

-3-10/5 


MOVING-MUST SELL 24' Crest 
aluminum pontoon with 50 H Mer- 
cury motor. New carpet, stereo, and 
hoist - $5,000.00. Also 17'Gramman 
canoe with equipment - $500.00. Call 
after 5:00 p.m. (517) 348-2287. 
-3-10/5 


FOR SALE Two 10 speed bikes, 
Huffy Omni and Schwinn Varsity, 
very good condition. Call 348-4285 
anytime, 

3-10/5 


PONTOON 21 ft. Crest, 40 horse 
power motor, good condition. 
$4,500.00, Call 348-2607 after 4:30 


p.m. 
-26-3-10-17/5 


FOR SALE - 2 boat hoists $200,00 
and $700.00 or best offer. Call 348- 
8497 after 5 p.m. 

“10/5 


Kelly's Music 
Bible & Book 


Store Guitars, 
Strings & Accessories 


Across From Weyerhaeuser 
On North Down River Road 
OPEN Tuesday Thru Saturday 


10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
4g ; S/10tf 


4S 


> 


a 


FOR SALE 4 Daytona radials P255/ 


7FORIS $100.00, Call 348-3026, 
10/5 


STH AVENUE - all options, 34,000 
miles, never driven in winter, well 
taken care of, exceptionally clean, 
$6,500.00, 275-8354. 

-3-10/6 


FOR SALE 1983 CAMARO excel- 
lent condition, air, cruise, AM-FM, 
casselte, needs engine work, call 348- 
3774. 
-10/6 


FOR SALE ‘78 Oldsmobile Delta 88 
in good condition or will trade for 
track of equal value. Phone (517) 
348-5974. 

-10-17/5 


FOR SALE 1982 FORD pick-up, 1/ 
2 ton, 6 - stick, $1500.00, Call 348- 
5214. 
-10/6 


COUGAR 1986 - Loaded, 43,000 
miles, metallic beige, onc owner, Blue 
Lake Road. 616-587-8756, 

-10/6 


ATTENTION Government seized 
vehicles from $100.00, Fords, Mer- 
cedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus 
Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 Ext. 
A6548. 

-}0-17-24-31/6 


GOVERNMENT SEIZED Ve- 
hicles from $100.00, Corvettes, 
Chevys, Porsches, and other confis- 
cated properties. For buyers Guide, 
1(800)448-2562 Ex1. 6607. Alsoopen 
evenings and weckends. 

-10/6 


79 FORD VAN full size, runs good, 
$1100.00. 348-8267. 
-3-10/6 


1977 MGB British racing , green in 
good condition, asking $3800.00 Call 
348-5850 or 348-2682. 

5Bu/6 


_ © &F AUTO 
(nae SALVAGE | 


USED AUTO PARTS 
WE BUY AND SELL 
OLD & LATE MODEL WRECKS 


948-2864 


FREE PICKUP OF 
JUNK CARS AND 
WRECKED VEHICLES 


SPRING SALE ON USED TIRES! 
On Old 27 


2 Miles North of Frederic 
LR-5-31/6 


MILLTOWN MOTORS SOUTH, 
Pickupiruck accessories, sliding glass 
windows, bumpers, truck covers, 
sunroofs sold and installed, 348-7352. 
T4tE/7 


“PONTOON TRAILER FOR 


RENT 348-4235, 
“10/7 


Cash for Antiques 
Old Quilts, Jewelry, Furniture, 
Duck Decoys, Fishing tems, 
Linens, Toys, Old Baskets Advariising, 
Anything Ot. 

Complete House Fulls. 
Beehive Antiques 


275-5643 


CALL TODAY 
SASTFT 


CLASSIFIEDS 
CONTINUED ON 
NEXT PAGE 


400-adult 
(%.0 - child 


2 a ee ee ia dee 


Page 21 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 


DON’T FORGET MOM - Seé our 
Mother's Day Pages, 10 and 11, for 
some great idcas on how to pamper 
her on her special day. 

-10/7 


FREE TO GOOD HOME . large 
mixed breed neutered male dog, 3 
ycars old, all shots up to date, good 
with children, completely house bro- 
ken, needs loving home. call 348- 
$273. 


SEND MOM A BOUQUET asfresh 
as spring, from Main Street Florals. 
348-7423, Downtown Grayling. 
-10/9 


PAMPER MOM - Treat her outto a 
meal] or dessert, sce our Mothers Day 
pages for some fine dining ideas, 
“L049 


PROM GOERS - Don't forget your 
boutonniere or corsage for your date 
this weekend. Order now from Main 
Street Florals. 348-7423. 

-10/9 


“ 1 AM NO LONGER RESPON.- 


MOTHERS ARE SPECIAL - for 
some great gift ideas check out our 
Mothers Day Pages, 10 and 11. 
10/8 


FOX RUN COUPLES LEAGUE 
Meeting 8:00p.m., practice round, 
5:00p.m., May 22nd., first league 
night, May 29. Please register in 
advance. Call Jeff Nester or Jim 
Lederman, 275-5105 - Fox Run C.c.,, 
348-4343, 

-10/8 


THE PROM IS THIS WEEKEND 
And everyone attending will want to 
order a boutonniere and corsage for 
their dates. Call 348-7423, Main 
Street Florals, downtown Grayling. 
-10/8 


WELCOME WAGON 
HOSTESS'S- Call Betty Mansfield, 


348-8562 or Shirley Carpenter, 348- 
5362 if you are anewcomer, engaged : 


ora new mother. ~12/12uf/8 


NEED 
AIRLINE 
TICKETS? 


2/15tt/8 


Call 348-5187 


I AM NO LONGER RESPON.- 
SIBLE for any other debts than my 
own. May 1, 1990, Todd Hammer. 
-10/9 


Ethyl, Liza Mae, Marie Leveau, 


Happy Mothers Day 


toa 


Whale of a Mom 
We Love You, Randy, Dede 


Happy Birthday 
Nelson Miles 


5 5 Years Young 


On 


Wednesday, May 9th 
From Your Friends 


Happy 25th 
Chum and Barb 


Love from the 
Lovelys & Jenny 


SIBLE for any other debts than my 
own. May 1, 1990, Todd Harmer. 
-10/9 


CONGRATULATIONS - MIKE 
LEVELWIND BARR for winning 
over Looselips Lobsinger 7 to 1, 10 
take over the prestigious position -. 
Back of the Boat! Billy Johnson. 
-10/9 


PAMPER MOM .- Treather outtoa 
meal or dessert, see our Mothers Day 
pages for some fine dining ideas. 
-10/9 


PROM GOERS - Don't forget your 
boutonniere or corsage for your date 
this weekend. Order now from Main 
Street Florals. 348-7423, 

-10/9 


ee ae 


We Love You 
Karen, Svenny, 
Heidi, et al 


) 


10, 


1990 
ERSONAL 


CONGRATULATIONS - MIKE 
LEVELWIND BARR for winning 
over Looselips Lobsinger 7 to 1, to 
take over the prestigious position - 
Back of the Boat! Billy Johnson. 
-L0/9 


SEND MOMA BOUQUET asfresh 
as spring, from Main Strect Florals. 
348-7423, Downtown Grayling. 
-10/9 


THURSDAY 

BIG MOVING SALE: Everything 
goes! Dressers, pine trestel table and 
chairs, apartment size washer and 
dryer, couch, desks, dishes, sheets, 
kids clothing, etc. All excellent con- 
dition. Two miles east past Weyer- 
hauser on 4 Milc Rd. Look for signs. 
Thursday through Saturday only. 
10/10 


GARAGE SALE East M-72 to 
Pappy's Trail. Boat motor, buzz rig, 
trout flies, lots of misc. Thurs, Fri- 
day, Saturday, 9-5. 

-10/10 


YARD SALE - Thur, Fri, Sat. 
Across from Weyerhauser, North 
Down River Road, 10a.m. to 6p.m. 
10/10 


FRIDAY 

YARDSALE.- lawnmowers, clothes, 
puzzles, etc. 706 Erie Street. i lth - 
13th. 

-10/10 


GARAGE YARD SALE- 133 Bar- 
bara, Friday, Saturday, Sunday ,t1-4. 
Fumiture, freezer, water bed, T.V.’s, 
baby fumiture, adult, children, and 
baby clothes, dishes, 66 GMC 1/2ton 
trans, 2 1965 Mustang doors, 
-10/10 


GARAGE SALE - Lots of quality 
baby and children’s clothing, Baby 
fumiture and much more. Friday 9 - 
4 , Saturday 9-12. 413 Peninsular. 
-10/10 


GARAGESALE - May 18, 19 & 20, 
22t Holton, Higgins Lake, 821-9335, 
lots of everything. 

-10-17/10 


YARD SALE - May 1] & 12,9 -5, 
Stoneware dishes, 8 place settings; 
baby clothes, Fisher Price swing, 
stroller, high chair, walker, boys 
clothes, exerciser bike, House of 
Lloyd dealer close out, large size 
matemity clothes and much more, 
behind Hospitality House Motel, fol- 
low signs. 

-10/10 


MOVING SALE - 5711 Wellington 
Way, off old 27 N, Everything must 
go and is priced to sell. Houschold 
items, clothes, toys and miscellane- 
ous. Friday and Saturday, 9 - 5, May 
1] & 12. 

10/10 


SATURDAY 


GARAGE SALE - 202 pak St, 
Saturday only, May 12, 9 a.m. to 9 
p.m. Crystal, china, kitchen items, 
and misc. 

-10/10 


YARD SALE - Saturday 9 a.m. to6 
p.m. off of M-72 West -Old Dam Rd. 
to West Tumer Trail. Follow signs. 
Numerous quality infant and 
children’s clothing, infant toys and 
odds and ends. Cancel if rain. 
-10/10 


MISC, 


MOVING SALE- ATV, cars, utility 
trailer, furniture, fishing poles, trailer 
axle, tools, clothing & more. May 
14th., 7am. to 8p.m., 1386-D Ole 
Damm Road. For info. 348-9357 
-10/10 


MOVING SALE 


May 24, 25 & 26 
119 JASON 
GRAYLING MOBILE ESTATES 


Furniture and 


Miscellaneous Items. 
Dining Room Set, 
Sofa and Chairs, Water Bed, 
End Tables, Lamps, etc. 
10-1 7/10 


South Branch 


Antiques 
Buying & Selling 
General Line Of 


Antiques 


Open Fri. thru Mon. 10-5 
Tues, thru Thurs. by Chance 


Located on M-72 
14 Miles East of Grayling 
Harold & Jean Boucher 


348-2514 


5/3t¥10 


Take Me Home... 


BLACK LABRADOR MIX--The Crawford 
County Animal Shelter has several different kinds 
of puppies ready for adoption including this lab mix. 
Shelter hours are Monday through Friday from 1-3 
p.m. and on weekends from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 


Resource Review 


By Bruce Patrick, 
Conservation Oficer 


Hunter education has come 
along way since Kentucky in- 
Stituted the first formal fire- 
arm safety course in 1946. 
Such training is now manda- 
tory in 44 states and will proba- 
bly soon be required in the 
rest, Additionally, most Ca- 
nadian Provinces require for- 
mal training or testing. 


In Michigan, the program 
was informally initiated in 
1945 and has been mandatory 
since 1971, Recent legisla- 
tion requires cither a safety 
training certificate or a previ- 
ously issued hunting license 
be produced prior to purchase 
of a new license by anyone 
bom after January 1, 1960. 
Over 1,110,000 hunters have 
been trained in Michigan since 
the program began. Each year, 


about 25,000 morc hunters are 
trained in Michigan and over 
650,000 are trained in the 
United States by nearly 50,000 
active instructors. 

The end result of this un- 
dertaking is that sport hunting 
is one of the safest activities 
around, which debunks the 
feeling of some that hunters 
are a bunch of trigger happy 
oudaws. A feeling which, by 
the way, is not uncommon in 
northern Michigan. Itis up to 
the truc hunting sportsmen to 
rid their ranks of the elements 
which cause this misconcep- 
tion. 

A Hunter Safety class will 
be held May 19th and 20th at 
the Northland Sportsman’s 
Club in Gaylord. Call 732- 
5662 or 732-5950 for further 
information. 


Doodles from 
the Tall Timber 


oR 


by Wendail Hoover 


Spring has sprung, at Icast 
according to the flowers. 
Some might have been a few 
days carly, but not by much. 
If you have been around some 
of the hardwoods in the area, 
it is obvious that the Trillium 
is out, Arbutus and Adders 
Tongue is also in bloom. 
Flowers such as the Marsh 
Marigold, Gold Thread, False- 
Lily-of-the-Valley and Gay- 
wings have to bloom carly in 
order to have all the sun they 
require before the leaves come 
out fully on the trees. The 
flowers of early May will go 
through the blooming and 
fertilization period because 
they aren’t shade tolerant, but 
yet they need the morc fertile, 
moist soil of the forest to grow 
in, 

The early flowers are often 
delicate in shape, color and 
fragrance. Do not put off 
seeing them as they will not 
be around long. 

Remember the 17th and if 
you are interested in a walk 
through the Pines, meeton the 
porch of the Visitors Center at 
7:30 p.m. Leave your flash- 
light home, dress for a cool 
evening and be prepared for 
the Pines at twilight. 


Hobby Club 
Plans Mother 
Daughter Banquet 


The Frederic Hobby Club’s 
Annual Mother and Daughter 
Banquet will be held Mon- 
day, May 14th, 5:30 p.m., at 
the clubhouse. This banquet 
is open to the mothers and 
daughters of the community. 
You are asked to bring a dish 
to pass and your own table 
services. You must pre-regis- 
ter (o attend, For reservations 
call: Linda Copeman 348- 
4998, Eva Ritter 348-716], or 
Annabelle Armstrong at 348- 
8008. 


Verse or Worse 


By Joe Murphy 


ANGELS OF MERCY 


What do nurses do after they retire? 

lf that question ever entered your mind 
| think | can supply the answer 

They continue to serve mankind 


After so many years in service 

You think they would have their fill 

But they’re not the kind to turn their backs 
On folks that need their skill 


Elsie, Bernice and Juanita 

Are three nurses that come to mind 
And three finer people 

Would be very hard to find 


When the Blood Mobile comes to our fown 
You're sure to find them there 

Proudly wearing their Red Cross Nurse’s pin 
For they‘re the kind of folks that care 


Where ever their skills are needed 
In the service of their fellow man 
They’ll be there showing concern 
And doing all they can 


Now |’m not saying they’re the only ones 
But they've worn that pin a long time 
And when | think of special effort 

Those three ladies come to mind 


| think they offer a fine example 
Of the way we all should live 

To offer in the service of mankind 
What ever skills we have to give 


Animal Care Tip 


SAS 


According to the Humane Society of the United States, the 
U.S. Congress designated April 1990 as National Prevent A 
Litter (P.A.L.) Month. 

Youcan commemorate it all year long if you remember to be 
a P.A.L, to your pet: 

Prevent A Litter. Have your pet spayed or neutered. 

Provide A Leash. Don’t allow your dog to run loose and 
keep your cat inside. 

Purchase A License. If your dog or cat does get lost, 
identification can be its ticket home 

Pet A Lot. Give your pet your affection, attention, time, and 
companionship. 

Spread the "Bea P.A.L.” message to friends, neighbors, and 
organizations. For more information, contact the Companion 
Animals Department, the Humane Society of the United States, 
2100 L Street NW, Washington, DC 20037. 


SCHEER MOTORS 


HAS REDUCED PRICES ON ITS MOST POPULAR 


AUTO AND TRUC 


a 


RSE 


TUNE-UP 


: INCLUDES: NEW SPARK PLUGS, SET 


E TIMING, ADJUST IDLE, INSPECT 
: : EMISSION PARTS, CLEAN THROTTLE 
_ LINKAGE. (6 CYL, 8 CYL.,4BBL. 


eA 
{FRONT DISC BRAKE SERVICE 
INCLUDES: REPLACE W/REMANU- 


% FACTURED PADS, INSPECT MASTER 
CYL., CALIPERS, ALL LINES AND 
#REAR BRAKES, REPACK FRONT 


For Ail Your Printing Needs 


Phone the Avalanche 348-6981 1 


THE POTBELLY 


Antiques & Things 
CARL AND ROSE HATFIELD 


Soh 
& St 
& 


¢ 


DEPRESSION GLASS, PRIMITIVES, 
WOOD STOVES, CHINA and FURNITURE 


HOMEMADE BASKETS 


4729 N. DOWN RIVER ROAD 


(NEXT TO THE FISH HATCHERY 
WE BUY & SELL ANTIQUES 


eg) 


NORTHERN 
CHIMNEY 
SWEEP 


Appointments Available 


Year Round. 
EXPERENCED SWEEPS 
MINOR REPAIRS 
INSURANCE INSPECTION 
SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNT 


Call 348-7539 


Heats 


Have Questions 
about Primary 
Power Inc. 


Please Write Us At 
300 St. Andrews Road 
Saginaw, Mi 48603 


K SERVICE 


ANS RA SOAR IR ROR SSS SPRUE SUPER NORASCE One Soo 


TRANSMISSION 


NOW NOW 


INCLUDES: NEW FILTER, PAN } 
GASKET & FLUID, ADJUST BANDS %: 
ROAD TEST. (SOME 2: 


$34.95 $45.95 THAN MIsION MODELS SLIGHTLY 


HIGHER) 


ee ee ee 


ALIGNMENT 


NOW NOW 


$52.95 $26.9 


TIRE PRESSURE, ROAD TEST. REAR 
ALIGNMENT ALSO AVAILABLE. j 


(SOME VEHICLES SLIGHTLY HIGHER) 


SN NL a SAO ALLL 


CALL TODAY FOR AN APPOINTMENT 


SCHEER MOTORS [wae sic 
GRAYLING - (517) 348-5451 Srfoawrene 


OFFER GOOD THRU TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1990 


nS peceeeceveencemunneettet tt 


MARKETS 


Glen's 


TET 
PROM OUR FAMILY 


TO YOURS 


Glen's 


POTATO 
CHIPS 7 


*GRAYLING STORE ONLY 


Page 22 -- AVALANCHE. Ihursday, MAY 1 1990 


Mercy Hospital/Grayling 
salutes our — 
Employees of the Month 
During 
- oe National Hospital Week Ne 
iy 1989 May 6 - 12, 1990 np 190 


Jean McDonald Thomas Elsner 
LPN 


Pharmacist 


Count On Us To Care 


sometimes, in the routine and the rush 
of every day, we forget: Caring is wnat 
Mercy Hospital is all about. 


SS: 


, Every single employee contributes to 


* a our ability to care for our community - —: =o 
i arch 
bear oT ike not just for one week of the year, but (_ Vanna Word 
eS day in, day out, 52 weeks of the year. las 


There are many people and places to 
which the community can turn for 
compassion. At Mercy Hospital, they 
also find the know-how, skills, energy, 
technology, and information essential 


to healing and health. i 
_ Thanks to you, we can not only care ‘b i 
July 1989 about, but take care of the members fea ee 


Janet SanCartier Keitha Knepp 


Cook/Dietary Aide of Our community. They count On US. Cardiopulmonary Supervisor 
We count on you. 


I24\NN 
QOVERCY HEALTH 
S 5 RVIC ES NOIRTH /VIERCY HOSPITAL/GRAYLING 


La Caring for the quality of your life. 


ryt A Cimision Of the Sisters of Mercy Health Comporaton . 7 
August 1989 ~ January 1990 
James Cross Nancy Robbins 
Radiologic Technician | Suracry Aide 


‘ _ bs ef . 

¥ gee f ; 

4 ; ‘ : ; , aed 
ay Al a i | a 7 ell 


September 1989 November 1989 December 1989 Januety 1990 
Steven Olson Cheryl McCarver Mary Kay Barclay Beveily Hubbard 
Certified Laboratory Assistant LPN Nurse Aide LIN 


5 aA od 


