Special Forest Fir 


Articles and Photographs 

Reprinted from May 10, 17, 

24, and 31st Issues of the 
Crawford Co.Avalanche 


Crawford 
County 


rint Issue 


Avalanche 


Fire Destroys At Least 50 Homes 


Reprinted from May 10th issue 
By Jon Thompson and Irene Pettyjohn 


The most expensive forest fire in Crawford County’s history 
burned out of control from 3:58 p.m, Tuesday, May 8, until 
about 11 p.m. when most of the blaze was contained. 

Firefighters estimated more than 50 houses burned to the 
ground in an arca from Thendara Rd. northeast to Stephan 
Bridge Rd., Shaw Rd., Pine Rd., and North Down River Rd., 
to Bald Hill Rd, Damages were initially estimated at $2.4 
million by county equalization director Bill Borchers, At 
9:55 p.m, Governor Blanchard declared ita disaster arca. 

DNR firefighter Duane Brooks said the fire produced more 
monetary loss than the large Mack Lake fire a couple ycars ago, 

“It was the scariest fire I’ ve ever been in,” said Beaver Creck 
Fire Chief Ed Holtcamp. “It was the most houses I've ever secn 
burn in tny 27 years of firefighting.” 

Strong winds pushed the blaze northeast quickly from Pappy’s 
Trail, where the fire started. 

“This was the worst fire I’ve fought because of the wind,” 
said Howard Taylor, a firefighter with the DNR crew for 15 
ycars, 

“Inall the 37 years I've been around house fires in Grayling, 
I saw more houses burn today than all the other ycars com- 
bined, “ said Sheriff Harold Hatficld. 

Only two persons were listed as injured from the fire — two 
firefighters — as of midnight Tuesday. DNR Conservation 
officers, Sheriff deputics, and other law enforcement person- 
nel evacuated 300-400 persons from the fire area. 

Among some of the homes that were reported as destroyed 
or close to the fire's path were Carl Yost’s, Jay Stephan's, Del 
Sheldon’s, Nancy and David Lemmen’s, Dick Wakelcy's, Joe 
Kuck’s , and RaxAnn Adam's. 

Officer Dean Goss, who is also the assistant fire chief for the 
Grayling City and Township Fire Dept., said the destruction 
was unbelicvable, 

‘T saw 14 houscs buming in a single block in the Shaw Park 
area,” he said. Goss said manyhomeson Pine Road and both 
sides of North Down River Road were lost. He said the first 
house that burned was on Pappy’s Trail. 

“There is no way to take an accurate count of the homes and 
cabins burned,” stated Goss. “Weevacuated about 300 people.” 

The fire path jumped around. Onc house on Stephan Bridge 
Rd. did not burn while houses on each side bumed. Garages 
and outbuildings bumed at Mike and Beth Wicland’s but their 
house did not bum. That happen in several places. 

Police suspect the blaze started near Pappy's Trail and a 
person burning Brush was the cause. 


"The Most Destructive Fire in Crawford 


SS 


While this major fire was buming, other fires were blazing 
in the county Tucsday afternoon. A fire in Indian Glen's 
destroyed homes there. Three small fires were reported near 
Arrowhead Rd, 

Every township fire department in the county was called to 
fight the fires and Kalkaska County put out the Arrowhead Rd. 
fires, The DNR called in other arca units and Camp Grayling 
units also assisted. 

The strong gusting winds did not die down until some rain 
mercifully swept through the area about 8:30 p.m. But before 
the winds died down, they shifted from the southwest and the 
path of the fire went back to some arcas it had missed before 
and more houses were lost. 

Problems firefighters ran into were crown fires (fires racing 
among the tops of trees), power lines falling, and propane tanks 
exploding, About 1,400 Top of Michigan customers lost power 
because of downed lines. 


Rain Helpe 


By Irene Pettyjohn 

Mother Nature’s rain and cooler temperalures were cx- 
tremely helpful in extinguishing the fires, said Duane Brooks, 
‘DNR fire officer. . : 

“If the rains had not come and the winds died down as they 
did,” he said, “the fire would have probably burned through the 
night and taken off and run all day the next day.” 

Brooks described the fire as “extremely dangerous.” High 
winds fanned the flames moving the fire approximately nine 
miles in about 4 1/2 hours. He said there were so many people 
involved in evacuating the area and the fire was spreading so 
fast, the chance of someone getting trapped in the fire was a 


“Some people refused to move,” said 
Duane Brooks“and we can’t make them 
leave, All we can do is warn them, give 
them the facts.” 


N 


SMOKING RUBBLE--The remains of this home on Pappy's Trail shows the destruction of Tuesday's fire. 
around taking and leaving property. The fire destroyed the house and both cars, but left the clothes lines behind the house. 


Beth Wieland was at her home trying to gather up a few items 
before the fire came. 

“It came down the power lines and it sounded like a twain 
coming,” she said. “The heat and smoke were so bad we had to 
leave.” 

Police had trouble evacuating people. Some were refusing 
to Icave the danger arca, Other people were causing problems 
at the roadblocks and one man was arrested for carrying a 
weapon. As the firefighters began getting a handle on the blaze, 
reports of people looting in the evacuated arcas started coming 
into the central dispatch office at the sheriff dept. 

Peoptc throughout Grayling pulled together during the trag- 
edy, Motels offered lodging; restuarants and grocery stores 
offered food and items to firefighters and evacuated people. 
Camp Grayling opened its doors to the evacuated people for the 
night. 

As the Crawford County Avalanche went to press carly 


very real possibility. 

“Some people refused to move,” he said, “and we can't 
make them leave. All we can do is wam them, give them the 
facts,” 

Grayling City and Township assistant fire chicf Dean Goss 
said the intense heat and speed of the fire forced his firemen to 
get themselves and their equipment out of the Pappy’s Trail 
area, abandoning some of the homes there, He said there were 
times when it was all they could do to stay ahead of the fire. 

Brooks said the heat from any forest fire is tremendous. The 
energy released can create a full size tomado. He said this 
forest fire bumed so intensely that it disintegrated the struc- 
lures in its path, leaving only ash, cement work and scrap metal. 

Tuesday's fire was a crown fire and Brooks said there is no 
technology known to fight a crown fire, 

The second week in May is an historic weck for forest fires 
in northern Michigan. On May 8, 1968, fires in Beaver Creek 
and South Branch townships bumed over 6,000 acres. On May 

10, 1975, 3,598 acres burned in the Bald Hill area and an 
additional 2,802 acres bumed on North Down River Road. 
More than 25,000 acres were destroyed in the Mack Lake, Mio, 
fire on May 5, 1980, and 1,931 acres were lost in Ogemaw 


te 
oy 
aerate: 


It also shows the fire jumped 


"| saw 14 houses burning ina 
single block in the Shaw Park 


area.” 
--firefighter Dean Goss 


Wednesday moming, DNR fircfighters were planning on 
meeting at the Command Center set up al Duane LaMotte’s 
Down River Pines store at the intersection of M-72 East and 
Stephan Bridge Rd. early Wednesday morning for the next 
step. Firefighters were concerned another dry, windy day 
would start up smoldering fircs. 


d Knock Down Fire 


“If the rains had not come and the 
winds died down as they did ... the fire 
would have probably burned through 
the night and taken off and run all day 
the next day.” 


County during the Damon Fire on May 9, 1987. 

Brooks said the burning index on Tucsday afternoon was at 
17. 

“That's about as bad as it gets,” he said. 

In an effort to save time should a fire be reported, Brooks had 
equipment standing by at Wakeley Bridge and M-?72 East and 
at McMasters Bridge and North Down River Road. Even with 
these precautions, he said they lost time getting to the South 
Branch fire because the equipment at McMasters Bridge and 
North Down River roads had to double back to Wakeley Bridge 
Road because the equipment was too heavy for the three ton 


load limit on McMasters Bridge. 
Reprinted from May 17th issue 


County” 


wats, Fs & 


a 


7 eat oe 


Photo by Jon Thompson 


ble River Fire Are 


a > nn 


a i 
2 


O » 
a 
= am *aR GR 


26D «WO Be aeGawaese @e 


Connor's March 


33 


e 
¥ 


Nie 


Stephan Bridge Ra. 


* 


CROWN FIRE--Flames from the AuSable River fire could be seen above the trees. The blaze was 
a crown fire which is nearly impossible to stop. Photo by James Dennis 


Bhiman Rd. 


Steckert Bridge Rd, 


PS 


TWO STORY HO 


- i by xy 
. tay Re Sth 


ME--This home was located on Pappy's Trail. 
Photo by Jon Thompson 


= 4 . $45. . me Fhe x 


tina sled 


ee a ey 


aaa eee ; 5 : can a, : 7 va 
Biot OE cas 7 Rs a S ae . ne N an 


satieidtaiteeniieniiaies ii acacia me ; mee | INTENSE HEAT--Fire destroyed Robert Musch 
DELEON HOME:--Only the chimneys and satellite dish remained of the Paul DeLcon home. 


Ley 


* 


prise 


iana's pole barn, but only melted the vinyl siding 
on his home and garage. Photo by Jon Thompson 


Articles and Photographs 
Reprinted from May 10, 17, 
24, and 31st Issues of the 

Crawford Co.Avalanche | 


¢) 


O00 Acres Burned 


Fire Losses Hit $3.5 


By Irene Pettyjohn 

The most destructive forest fire in Crawford County history 
swept through the area on Tuesday, May 8, destroying homes 
and outbuildings valued at nearly $3.5 million. The DNR said 
the fire was started by “human activity.” 
_ Miraculously, the only fire related injury reported was 
smoke inhalation by a fireman who was treated and released 
from Mercy Hospital. The injury occurred during the evacu- 
ation effort when the fireman pushed open a door and was met 
with a thick cloud of black smoke. 


Reprinted from May 17th issue 


The fire burned more than 5,000 acres 
destroying 81 residences (year-round 
homes, vacation homes, cabins and 
mobile homes), 115 outbuildings, and 
37 motor vehicles such as snowmobiles, 
ORV’s, boats, trucks, and cars. 


Pees 


The DNR estimates the fire burned more than 5,500 acres 
destroying 81 residences (year-round homes, vacation homes, 
cabins and mobile homes), 115 outbuildings, and 37 motor 
vehicles such as snowmobiles, ORV’s, boats, trucks, and cars. 
Of the total acres burned, Grayling Township assistant asses- 
sor Curt Marshall estimated that approximately 3,500 acres 
was residential acreage valued at about $850,000. 


DNR fire officer Duane Brooks said the fire could be the 
most expensive forest fire in Michigan’s history. 

He said the fire appeared to have started off Thendara Road 
and burned out of control from about 3:56 to 11 p.m. The fire 
traveled in a north casterly direction for about nine miles 
jumping Stephen Bridge Road just south of the bridge, the 
AuSable River at Guides Rest, and North Down River Road 
twice before it was contained in a swampy area near Dyer Trail. 
It was finally extinguished by heavy rains on Thursday. 


Governor James Blanchard declared the county a disaster 
area at about 10:50 p.m. on Tuesday and he and DNR director 
David Hales visited the bumed area on Wednesday afternoon. 
Designation as a disaster area will allow victims to apply for 


i 2 og 


Losses at $500,000 
South Branch Fire 


Burns 615 Acres 


By lrene Pettyjohn 

At the same time fire fighters were fighting the big fire, two 
smaller fires were buming in South Branch Township. 

DNR officials believe a downed power fine started the fire 
on Sunrise Road off McMasters Bridge Road that bumed about 
15 acres. The third fire was located in the Indian Glens 
" subdivision, near the Roscommon County line and bumed 
about 615 acres before fire fighters were able to bring it under 
control, 

The Indian Glens fire was spotted at 5:06 p.m. by the DNR 
airplane. It was contained at 4:30 a.m. 

“The rain at 8:30 that night really contained the fire,” said 
Jim Fisher, DNR fire supervisor, “but we didn’t call it con- 
tained until we had a line around the fire.” 

Fisher said an initial estimate of structure damage, suppres- 
sion costs and timber damage is $500,000, He said one pole 
barn contained nine snowmobiles, four ORV’s and several 
picces of heavy equipment. 

“Those kinds of losses add up fast,” he said. 

Property destroyed in South Branch Township included five 
motor homes, ten travel trailers, 15 sheds, one automobile, two 
pole bams and onc garage. Property damaged included a travel 


trailer, cabin and one home. 

Fisher said one travel trailer that was thought to have 
survived the fire bumed the following day when temperatures 
buili up inside the trailer causing it catch fire. He said firemen 
saw smoke coming from the trailer, but it had already been 
gutted. 

Most of the property destroyed in South Branch Township 
was privately owned. Fisher said he recommended that prop- 
erty owners contact a consulting forester for advice on replant- 
ing the bumed woodlands, 

Human activity was also cited by DNR officials as the cause 
of this fire. Reprinted from May 17th issue 


“The rain at 8:30 that night really 
contained the [Indian Glens] fire,” said 
Jim Fisher, DNR fire supervisor. 


all A. ll AI A al i ee ctt ne eee adt al ial 


TOTAL LOSS--This is all that remained of Carl and Sally Yost's home on Stephan Bridge Road. 


After consuming their home the fire traveled on, leaving their garage intact. Photo by Irene Pettyjohn 


state aid to help with reconstruction cfforts. 

DNR fire fighting units from all over northern and north 
central Michigan were called in to battle the blaze. Voluntcer 
fire departments from surrounding counties, as well as every 
fire dept. in Crawford County assisted in the fire fighting effort. 
The Michigan National Guard fire unit assisted with men and 
equipment. An Ohio National Guard helicopter crew fought 
the fire with their Bambi Bucket until additional heltcopters 
could be flown in by the Michigan National Guard, Eventually 
three buckets were used to carry water to the fire. 


The Crawford County Sheriff Dept. was assisted by the 
Michigan State Police, military MP’s, and sheriff departments 
from several neighboring counties. Conservation officers 
were called in from all over northem Michigan. 


About 150 persons worked together to evacuate the arca, 
contain the fire, and control traffic. Equipment at the firc 
included 73 tractors/plows and water units. 

Brooks said there was machinery lined up for about a block 
down both sides of Stephans Bridge Road. 


More than 300 persons were evacuated Tuesday afternoon, 
Shelter was provided at the Michelson Memorial United 


nn ee rere nt nn etl Lm Maret 


DNR fire officer Duane Brooks said 
the fire could be the most expensive 
forest fire in Michigan’s history. 


Methodist Church, the Grayling High Schoot gymnasium and 
Camp Grayling. Some stayed with friends, 


Residents were allowed to return to the evacuated area about 
4 p.m. on Wednesday afternoon. Some residents complained 
because they had been kept out of the area 17 hours after the fire 
had been contained, but Brooks said this was necessary to 
allow the electric utilities time to cut power to all downed 
electric wires and to ensure there was no further danger of 
propane gas tank explosions. 


Many of those who had been evacuated returned to find their 
homes as they had left them, but others found only ash where 
their homes once stood. 


CLOUDS OF SMOKE -- The billowing clouds of smoke that rose above 


the tree tops warned residents for miles that a major forest fire was ripping 
through the county. The smoke could be smelled in Grayling. 


2 


MECHANICAL SKELETONS-- Automobiles caught in the path of the fire became scrap metal, 


The rubber on these tires was melted leaving the van sitting on its rims. 


Photo by Jon Thompson 


Property Losses 


Grayling Township 

Reprinted from May 17th issue 
Name Address Structures lost 
Arlene Fraley Grayling home, garage | 
Murray Adams Grayling home, garage, barn | 
Ronald & Hazel Dean Hastings mobile home, shed 
Michael & Beth Wieland Grayling pole barn 
Joseph & Ester Kuck Grayling mobile home | 
Delbert & Love Sheldon Grayling home, pole barn | 
Stanley Clark Walled Lake home, garage 


David Clark, et al 
Mrs. Fred Bloetscher 


Leslie Huffines 


Anthony Foley 
John Welton 


Grand Blanc 


N. Miami Beach, FL 


Crane Hill, AL 


Rochester Hills 


Hillsdale 


mobile home 
home, garage 


home 


home, garage 
shed 


South Branch Township 


1 Duane Hilden 


Center Line 


travel trailers - 2 


fire and prepared breakfast and 
dinner at the Knights of Co- 


Crawford County fire will be 
presented by the Good News 
Choir of the Michelson 
Memorial United Methodist 
Church in Grayling. 

The Choir will perform the 
musical “Get On Board, Chil- 
dren” (or, what do youdoona 


Michigan arrived to help with 
the recovery effort. The Red 


they’ve been giving victims 
of the May 8th fire thal struck 
Crawford County. But after 


the Red Cross Service Center 


in the Knights of Columbus 
Halt relocates 10410 Cedaron 
Saturday, May 19th, help will 


Funds are available for 
security deposits, appliance 


able for anyone with unmet 
necds, “If there are any fire 
victims who have somchow 
slipped through the cracks, or 
may have thought they did not 
need help and have now dis- 
covered that they do, Red 
Cross can and will still be 


Fifteen children, between the age of 6 and 19, sold 
cool aid, peanut butter cookies, and popcom on 


sistance and they will! be able 
10 slay in touch with Red Cross 
by calling the local chapter 
number at 517-348-9745.” 
Joseph is joined by the 
Chapter Chairman, Paul Th- 
omson, in urging all disaster 
victims to contact the Ameri- 


victims are not expected to 
pay back any aid that they 
receive.” Thomson noted that 
Red Cross aid in time of disas- 
ter is a gift of the American 
people. 


Reprinted from May 24 


Y. Szkotnicki Grayling garage 
Jay Stephan, Sr. Grayling home, garage | 
Arthur Kerle Grayling home, garage Vs oul | 
Paul Deleon Southgate home, garage iy ~ ac ee ‘\ ms 
William Meagher ___Essexville home SACK LUNCHES.--Red Cross volunteers packed hundreds of sack lunches and then distributed 
Mark & Jessie Pegouskie Grayling mobile home them along with coffee and cold drinks to fire victims and volunteers working in the burned area. 
Bruce Murray Grayling pole barn & home damage Photo by Irene Pettyjohn 
Steven Christenson Royal Oak home 
John Murray Grayling mobile home, garage ba 
Ward Rathbun Grayling home, garage O Mm m LU Nn f U Dp Do i O L re n 
Richard Lee Grayling mobile home, garage 
Jorn Aleman Kenly, N.C. mobile home, pole barn As soon as people in came the community disaster © RaxAnn Adams, a volun- Counselors at the Grayling and monetary donations have 
Charles Dixson Grayling home, garage Crawford County learned of _ relicf center and representa- teer at the center, said their High School also met with been arriving ona daily basis. 
Ernest Angel Westland damage to home the seriousness of the fire and tives from the American Red recordsindicated that 48 year- students whose homes were A Petoskey radio station is 
Leigh Bonner Clarkston home its affect on al oe i See Sue Dept. on pues has ae destroyed. ne eed ie ee raiser " 
: ; the community beganlooking of Social Services, and insur- pletely destroyed by the firc, Further support will be Crawfor ounty with 
Me ey bo ue oer elie for ways to help, ance companies began meet- leaving 136pcrsonshomeless. availableon Monday, May 21, $10,000asits goal. The Gray- 
erbert Hl enodorg Garden City travel trailers - 2 LTC Wayne Koppa, Camp ing with people whose homes The estimated valuc for these at9a.m.,whenKristiMcKen- ling Lions Club has offered 
George Miller Grayling home, garage Commander, open Camp had beendestroyed by the fire. homes ts $3,675,780 and she —zic from the Lutheran Social $3,000 and the Quality North 
Ronald Hahn Unionville home Grayling’s barracks for about Crawford County Emer- said that estimate is probably Services of Michigan, holdsa Chevrolet Dealerships do- 
James Lupan Warren garage 30 people Tucsday night. gency Management director low. seminar on crises grief recov- nated $5,000. 
Carl Yost Gravli h ‘ Glen's Market offeredgrocer- Howard Taylor began com- Adams said the estimated cry at the Grayling Holiday Assistantanimal control of- 
: 6 nay Ing ons ies tofeed those whohadbeen — piling information about the loss for both destroyed and [nn, Rev. Robert Gordon, ficer Dixie Lobsinger was at 
Guy Williams Grayling home, garage evacuated. fire for state and federal agen- damaged property iswellover pastor of St. John’s Lutheran the Crawford County Animal 
Richard Horton Flint home Personnel from the 1071st cies. $4.5 million. She said nearly Church, said school counsel- Shelter Tuesday night to ac- 
Edward Robinson Grayling home, garage ran a shuttle bus between Everyone who sufferedany 400pcoplehave been affected ors, clergy, or anyone inapo- cept pets from persons evacu- 
Wayne Ferguson Grayling Nene Grayling andCampGrayling, kind of toss as a result of by the fire. sition to counsel victims of ated from their homes. She 
Bas and between buildings on the — Tucsday’s fire is being asked = The good news is there the fire are encouraged to at- said ten puppies and a yellow 
William Snyder Clark Lake mobile home base, Bobby Martinez stayed to report the loss to Taylor so appears to be all kinds of as- tend. lab were brought in for tem- 
Hoot Owl Hunt Club Grayling cabin atthe telephone, tryingtohelp — that a total assessment of the sistance available to fire vic- Food, clothing, furniture — porary housing. 
William Curtis Walled Lake mobile home, garage people calling the Camp lo- damage caused by the firecan tims through ae American Reprinted from May 17th issue 
Theodore Sieger Grayling home, garage cate iheir familics and relay- be compiled. Governmental Red Cross, Salvation Army 
1. E. Frankenfield Gravlin — : ing messages. Area ministers agencies use this information and DSS, but people must 
ae : y ; 8 Barag were contacted to talk to the — to determine the arca’s eligi- come into the disaster center 5 : 
ae mies . aes pe garage people. bility for low interest loans as ie possible and regis- C h [ ld ren Raise 
verett Beattie rayling lome Clark's and Mac’s drug and grants. Fire victims are ter with the various agegcies 
Brian & Joyce Starks Grayling mobile home storcsopened so that prescrip- asked to report their losses there. $305 98 ‘For 
: ‘ : if the “Tf they don'tcomce into see * 
Robert Tubbs Burin ai tions left at home could be even if they do not intend to Ries 
R &) Helj D ey ore nome | filled. Mercy Hospital offered — requestany type ofassistance. us,” said Darlene Adas, a Red . , 
oger udy eliste etroit mobile home free medical treatment to In addition to scores of lo- Cross family services officer, Fi re Victims 
Leon Wallace Royal Oak mobile home anyone suffering from inju- cal volunteers, about 25 Red “we don’t know they need ; 
Mary Stowers Flint mobile home ries or iflness caused by the Cross voluntccrs fromaltover help.” Age has not been a factor in the relief effort. 


Roy Barrett Hazel Park mobile home lumbus hall on Thursday and Cross nurse came from Ne- replacement, utility bills, re- Saturday and Sunday, May 12 and 13, at the comer of 
Douglas Gardner Gladwin mobile home Friday for fire victims, More _ braska. location expenses and other North Down River and Wakeley Bridge roads. On 
Donald Steffes Grayling home than 2300 meals were served. Throughout the week the needs for those who qualify. See Herr lien pulses oe eneion: Sunday, (ey 
Thomas Killoran Grayling pole barn Families from the Michel- numbers of homes lost and Emotional support was Same 67.98, The Sia ke taken by several of 
William Middleton Grayling mobile home son Methodist church invited damaged and the number of made available to Grayling | [1 Rahn Nok ROU Rector i ordon sa 
erica aes ee evacuated persons into their personsaffectedbyTucsday’s Elementary Schoo! students he us - ae ee of Me fire. Pastor Gordon said 
‘ - Pp homes, and area motels of- fire continued to increase as on Wednesday following the ns ne ‘ ue meren cares aus ii ae 
rhomas Joseph Swartz Mt. Clemens home, garage feredroomsatnocharge. Res- people registered at the disas- fire from the school district’s ae ay ae oe children's names 
Michael Sowuleuski Grayling home taurants prepared and deliv-  tercenter. AtAvalanchepress social worker, Donna oy ames Love 10, Marty 7, Kathi Oberg 16, Becky 
Gerald Falaska Jackson home ered food to the fire fighters time, the AmcricanRedCross —Ribaudo, and Craig Hexham, ae a ree aaa - 0 ee : 
Richard Wakeley Grayling homenearnse and police agencies Tuesday had registered 50 families, of NewLifeCommunityServ- ] 4A Ah rae Side Ai ci init 
night, and offered meals to Thirty-sevenfamilicsreceived ces. Children were cncour- eae ee ence rae ( 
Joy Wright Grayling home gm, ys pete 19, Chad Lingle 9, and Leah Lingle 12. i 
; fire victims. financial assistance from the 48¢d to talk about the fire and ; } 
Ronald McClure Grayling home, pole barn Ribaudo anc -exhan Children from the Grayling Elementary School 
j 5 OnWednesday momingthe Red Cross at a cost of more ‘ pre donated canned goods for the relicf effort 
sie ai : ee Lake home Knights of Columbus hall be- than $11,000. there to answer questions. | 
avi ancy Lemmen rayling home, garage. i 
Ronald Lewis Grayling home | 5 = 
lames Sheldon Gaying ho Musical Red Cross Still Offerin 
Clyde Schwartz Utica garage 
Thomas Murray Warren home To Aid a o " 
Robert Muschiana Grayling pole am Assistance To Fire Victims 
| Fleet Finance W. Palm Beach, FL home Victims 7 
Jack Millikin Grayling cabin = cates ud al cae ; si eat re 
Disaster specialists of the = Crawford Co. Chapter available to help,” said Jo- can Red Cross if they have not 
David Pettyjohn Grayling shed A benefit musical for per- American Red Cross are fin- Executive, Bill Joseph, said soph. “There are also still done so. “All Red Cross dis- 
Marvin Smith Livonia home, 2 sheds sons affected by the May 8 ishing up the assistance that assistance will be avail- cases in various stages of as- aster assistance is free and the 


Larry Schultz Warren motor home, shed ' eels 
Jae Sick Detroit ; i trailer. ched rainy day in an ark?) on Sun- 4 
ames TAN ARCH SNe day, May 20, at 6:30 p.m., at gant 
Constance Faustman Fairbanks travel trailer the Michelson Church, 400 4 \ 
Frank Horvath Southgate shed Michigan Avenuc, Grayling. A 
Charlton Thomas Belleville auto Donations will beaccepted, 7k 
M.J. Ellsworth Jackson travel trailer, shed ane Precece e Oe stay ae 
} Baker Riven 2 eal 2 shed AuSable Ministerial Associa- 
ales WEENIE travel travers, 2 sneds tion for distribution, nie 
i Gary Selden Portland 2 travel trailers, 2 sheds whe ” 
Michael Marriott Jackson shed son 
Thomas Rourk Allen Park trailer DAV Funds th 
Hugh Sherrard Clarklake cabin damage Available To ane a 
Frank Hursey Southgate mobile home Disabled Vets fe a 
Anne Sisk Roscommon pole bam ; ; wee | | 
j uthfield onic ani Bicane The Disabled American eA tan ee 
Clarence Stanley Southfie rome damage, pole bi Vsiowanie-have-Higaston relat AS, Sanen,, 
Jay Gladwin Ferndale shed funds available for service i as Vania Sheanee ' 
Myron Wise Detroit travel trailer connected disabled vetcrans DONATED--Dog and cat food was donated to = 
Ralph Smith Lincoln Park mobile home, shed whosufferedlossesinthe fire. the Crawford County Animal Control Shelter for SR a PASO 
Ronald Clark Roseville shed, travel trailer damage ee ee our four-legged fire victims. Pictured with the food BURNED OUT--Jonathan, Kimberly and six 
i : : ance please contact the Dis- - “ ; : ; 
George Heacock Redford Twp. shed, plumbing abled American Veterans a"@ K-Mart Assistant Manager Judy Morgan and month old Amanda Weymers were downstate when 
Arthur Huffman W. Bloomfield mobile home, shed Service Office, 348-5645, in husband Bud, Other K-Mart donaters were Joyce Tuesday's fire destroyed their home on North Down 
Rev. Isadore J. Mikulski Oscoda garage, shed the Crawford County cour- Martin, Tami Cook, Marsha Krocll, Rose Ames, River Road. The Weymers are shown with Red 


house. Chris Hanger, and friend Ken Trish. Cross volunteers. 


As residents begin the rebuilding process, emergency serv- 
ices in the county are moving from their mass care phase that 
provided emergency shelters and dining hall meats to provid- 
ing individual and possibly long term assist>~ce to the victims 
of last week's fire, 

Red Cross family services officer Darlene Adas said the Red 
Cross has financial assistance available for temporary housing 
at area motels and hotels, and can also help with some or all of 
the cost of rebuilding for individuals with limited resources. 
She said all assistance from the American Red Cross comes 
Reprinted from May 17th issue 


from grants, not loans, and does not require repayment. She 
said representatives frora the national office would be in the 
area as long as they are needed. 

Donations of food and clothing are no longer needed, but 
temporary housing that can be rented for three to six months 
while families rebuild is desperately needed. Especially hous- 
ing that will allow pets. 

Grayling Township assistant assessor Curt Marshall said 
most of the people he talked to intend to rebuild their homes as 
soon as possible. Rebuilding the destroyed forests will take 


Some Residents Will Rebuild 


By Irene Pettyjohn 


John Murray, a victim of the fire, who tost his home on the 
corner of Shaw Park and Stephan Bridge roads, said he had 
been told for years that Crawford County with all its Jack Pines 
was a prime candidate for a devastating forest fire, but said he 
never believed it. 

“T always knew it was going to happen,” said DNR fire 
officer Duane Brooks. “I just didn’t know when.” 

Murray said his insurarice would not replace everything he 
had fost in the fire, He said he would be able to replace his home 
and most of its contents, but not his garage or recreation 
vehicles, 

“Tl rebuild,” he said, “but then] am going to think seriously 
about putting the place up for sale. Two fires in three years is 
enough for me,” said Murray. 

A chimney is all that remains of Linda and John Speese’s 
house on North Down River Road. Linda and John live in 
Oakland County and planned to retire in Crawford County in 
afew years, Besides their home, John said they tost 20 acres 
of woods that is now only a blackened graveyard of smolder- 
ing stumps. 


“ft’s crazy,” said Linda, “the woods are gone the house is 
gone, but not a single leaf on the peony that is located about 1 
1/2 feet from where the house stood is even singed,” 

Jonathan, Kimberly and six month old Amanda Weymers 
had gone downstate to pick up a bed, and returned to find that 
everything but the bed had been destroyed by the fire, They did 
not have arty insurance. 

“We were just getting started up here,” said 2!-ycar old 
Jonathan. He said he was waiting until he got a better job 
before he got homeowners insurance. 

Patrick and Peggy’s mobile home was spared, but they lost 
their travel trailer and snowblower. Peggy said everything 
inside their home is covered with black smoke. They estimated 
their loss at $15,000. 

Two historic homes in the County were among the homes 
destroyed by fire. The Schreiber farm house, owned by Delbert 
Sheldon, was built in 1889 by Hugo Schreiber, Fay Bovec's 
grandfather. 

The Hoffman farm, owned by Theodore Sieger, was also 
destroyed. Both homes were located on North Down River 


Road. Reprinted from May 17th issue 


Landowners Faced With Tough 
Choices About Burned Timber 


By Irene Pettyjohn . 


Experts in the field of forest management met with Crawford 
County Jandowners fast Friday at the courthouse to suggest 
ways of salvaging their burned timber and reforest their prop- 
erties. 

Foresters Jim McMillan, from the DNR, and Jim Wad- 
sworth, from Weyerhaeuser, Barb Stauffer, from the U. S. Soil 
Conservation Service (SCS) and the Agricultural Stabilization 
Conservation Service (ASCS), and Roy Spangler, from the 
Cooperative Extension Services explained to landowners 
several options available to them regarding their timber sal- 
vage efforts. 


Wadsworth told the group the Weyerhaeuser Structurwood 
Plant was going to try to increase its consumption of jack pine 
from 25 percent to 30 or 40 percent in an effort to offer an 
increased market for Crawford County landowners who lost 
their forests in May 8th’s devastating fire. 


Weyerhaeuser is also offering the services of their foresters, 
Wadsworth and Mike Castle, as consultants to fire victims to 
help them make important decisions such as when to harvest, 
whether to harvest, what markets are available to them and 
finally what to do with the land. Landowners will also have to 
decide whether they want to let the forest reforest itself natu- 
rally with jack pines, or choose to plant other types of trees. 

General manager of the Grayling Weyerhaeuser plant Rodger 
Anger said the effort on their part was in no way intended to be 
opportunistic, but rather to offer their assistance in the 
community's resource recovery process. 


McMillan told landowners the trees killed by the intense heat 
and fire on their property could still be valuable for pulp and 
saw logs if they act within the next 60 to 90 days to have it 
harvested. After that time, McMillan said bark beetles will 
begin destroying what is left of the wood, 

Property owners with three acres or more appear to have a 
better chance of selling their timber to logging companies than 
small lot owners, said McMillan. 

“The person with two acres or tess will probably have to 
&icar their land themselves,” he said. “The more acreage a 
person has the more likely they are to be able to sclll it 
commercially”. 


Buildings 
In Clearings 
Fared Better 


To the untrained observer, Tuesday’s fire appeared to jump 
around taking this house and that onc, but leaving the house 
over there without rhyme nor reason, but according to DNR 
officials, in many cases there were precise reasons why some 
structures bumed and other did not. 


On Good Morning Michigan this week, Scott Heather, from 
the DNR Regional Headquarters in Roscommon, told viewers 
that buildings in clearings, away from pine trees, fared much 
better than those sitting in a wooded area. 

During the program, Heather suggested that homeowners 
cut pine trees back 75 fect from their structures and replace 
them with tess flammable trees such as maples, oaks, and 
poplars, Shrubs should be not be planted next to buildings. 

Other suggestions included keeping wood piles away from 
buildings and Icaving a hose connected to an outside faucct, 


Reprinted from May 17th issue 


McMillan said small lot owners can either cut the timber for 
their own wood use or they can try to market it locally for fuel 
wood. Persons with more property will probably be able to 
market the “smaller stuff” (less than ten inches in diameter) for 
chipping to be sold to cogeneration for energy plants in 
Midland, Lincoln and Hillman. 

According to McMillan, there is a good market for saw logs 
ten inches or more in diameter, He advised persons with 
marketable saw logs to contact the DNR Field Office for 
suggestions regarding ways to sell the timber. 


Not all the trees in the burned area were killed. Spangler 
cautioned persons thinking about having the trees on their 
property cut to have a forester examine the trees to detennine 
which trees are dead and which are not. 

Itsounds incredible, but McMillan said notall the trees in the 
burned area are dead. If the top half of the tree is still green, he 
said landowners should monitor it before cutting it down. He 
said there is a good chance those trees will survive the fire. 

Trees that are all brown or black, with needles that are bent 
and curled, are most likely dead and should be harvested as 
soon as possible. 


The SCS conservationist and forester are atso available to all 
victims of the fire to assist them in the re-establishment of 
vegetation. 

Stauffer told the group that she was not sure, at this time, 
what help is going to be available for reforestation and stream - 
bank erosion projects. 

Those property owners who have previously registered their 
land as agricultural, forestry producing, or wildlife lands with 
the SCS are eligible for the SCS cost share programs. These 
programs make available grass sced mixtures, trees for refor- 
estation, and wildlife vegetation. Those who are notregistered 
should contact the Roscommon SCS office to inquire of avail- 
able programs and to sign up for the fall seedling program. 

The spring seedling program is over, but Stauffer said 
persons intending to replant their bumed acreage should reg- 
ister with the SCS for fall and spring 1991 seedlings. This fall 
red and white pine, douglas fur, and blue, White and norway 
spmuce trees will be available for a nominal fee. 

“Weare a unit of government and not out to make a profit,” 
said Stauffer. “‘Our fees are set to cover our costs for the two- 
year seedlings.” 


Inthe spring, besides the pine trees, the SCS will have shrubs 
such as honeysuckle, Autumn Olive, Red Osier Dogwood, 
Mountain Ash and Russian Olive. Small wildlife ornamental 
trees such as Washington Hawthom, White Birch and Hybrid 
Poplar will also be available. 


Stauffer suggested that property owners consult with a 
forester before any planting is started. Shc said they can advise 
on what types of trees are best suited for this area. To prevent 
streambank erosion, Stauffer suggested cedar posts, rock rip 
rap, and strcambank shrubs. Before any river restoration is 
started, she said owners of river frontage should consult with 
the DNR to see what is allowed under the recently approved 
Natural Rivers Act. 

Landowners with questions regarding the harvesting of their 
burned forests or reforestation of the land are urged to contact 
the DNR, the Weyerhacuser Structurwood Plant, and the Soil 
Conservation Service office in Roscommon, 

“Nobody wants these landowners to be taken advantage of,” 
said Stauffer, “They have lost enough already.” 

Reprinted from May 24 issue 


Articles and Photographs 

Reprinted from May 10, 17, 
24, and 31st Issues of the 
Crawford Co.Avalanche 


much longer. DNR offtetals are estimating reforestation will 
take 50 years, 

Meanwhile Forestry Management is busy inventorying the 
damaged forest and plans to offer the salvageable timber for 
sale. 

Jim MceMillian, DNR forest manager, said damaged jack 
pines would be chipped and offered to cogeneration plants in 
Midland, Lincoln and Hillman. The larger red pines (over 10 
inches in chameter) will be sold for tunber. Because of the 
threat of damage from bark beetles, MeMilltan said the timber 
harvest would have to take within the next three weeks or so. 

Another victim of Tuesday’s fire is the tiny Kirtland’s 
warbler. About a quarter of the “active” warbler habitat 
located on Bald Hill Road between Grayling and Lovells was 
destroyed as well as about halfofan “on-line” plantation being 
developed for future use. Dr, Sylvia Taylor, district wildlife 
biologist at Mio, said the burned portion of the plantation, 
planted this spring, had a value of about $50,000. 

“We would have lost a lot more active habitat if the new 
plantation hadn't acted tike a fire break,’ she said. ‘We cannot 
have fires fike that,” 

In an effort to cut down the numbers of forest fires, Dr. 
Taylor said the DNR has developed the Kirtland’s Plan which 


What Comes Next in Aftermath of Fire? 


will provide more warbler habitat by keeping the forest young. 
She said the plan is ideal because it will also provide the most 
production for timber and is the safest way to manage a jack 
pine forest. Since jack pines reforest themselves durini a 
forest fire when the heat opens its pinecones spilling out ue 
seeds, Dr. Taylor said the DNR wilt be artificially revene rating 
the forest by planting young trees. 

“IT know people have a hard time with clear cutting,” said Dr, 
Taylor, “but these open areas serve as fire breaks and prevent 
large forest fires, like the Mack Lake fire.” 

What affect the lost Kirtland’s warbler habitat destroyed in 
Tuesday's blaze will have on the endangered bird is stil) 
uncertain. Dr. Taylor said they will know more after they 
conduct their warbler census in June. She said she had not 
heard any Kirtland’s warblers prior to the fire, but when she 
toured the burned area on Monday, she heard them singing. 

Dr. Taylor said there is a Kirtland’s habitat plantation near 
Red Oak and another near Lovelts ready for the birds. 

The Kirtland’s warbler is an endangered species that divides 
it ime between north central Michigan inthe summer and the 
Bahamas during the winter. There are only about 200 pairs of 
the small birds feft. The birds usually return to Michigan 
during the second week in May. 


* aia 


FIRE BREAKS--Fire ren ioned wide ditches i in an effort t to save structures oe nthe fi fire. 


Photo by Jon Thompson 


County Declared 
Disaster Area | 


Asaresultof thedevastating fires which awiepi Crawford 
County earlier this mont, the Federal Govertiinent has 
declared the county a disaster area. The declaration came 
alee an audit ot He ae completed by. the niall 


| nanornied, wohl adits, or financial assis 
As a result of the deckiration, a One Stop A 


Hall on Norway Street i int Grayling The | cenie 
open, to fire voi on ewirehe May: 30, fi 


Center, At the center “will be by he Os 
agencies, fedora, § state, and tocal, Wh hav 


grant money available tor thase who he aie 9 = . 
— Pire victims are also reminded that there is an aiiyle 
ae of food and clothing ae Ne who need 


Verse of Worse _ 


By Joe Murphy ae 


Hell’s Fury 


The fire struck ike Hell's fury 

The quiet country side became a raging hell 
Billowing smoke filled the alr 

Full of wood smoke's smell 


High winds in the jackpine forests 

Along with tne weather being hot and dry 
Sent the fire scampering here and there 
sending each containment plan awry 


Fire units from the near by area 
Came to help as good neighbors do 
The D.N.I. and the National Guard 
And some private contractors too 


Many homes were lost fo the fire 
But their efforts sdved quite a few 
Men working in that hot smoky hell 
Did ail that men could do 


No lives were lost in the fire 

Thanks to the evacuation plan 

That was first to save propery when possible 
But first of all save man 


When finally the fire was defeated 
Wilh scme help from the Man Above 
The fire’s victims could find solace 
In. an out pouring of Christian love 


Folks rallied to help their neighbors 

In their great hour of need 

Hell's fury may have destroyed those homes 
But God's love made folks pay need 


nomen foen nee hy ve it 
: pais Sab -™_ 


REFORESTATION: “Camie Trudgeon, 20, of Grayling, and Angie Parker, 19, of 
Roscommon, are shown planting jack pine seedlings to replace the Kirtland's warbler 
habitat lost in the May 8th fire. As of Wednesday afternoon, the four member Michigan 


Youth Corps crew had planted over 7,000 trees. 


‘he project will continue for about three 


weeks. Not pictured are Henry Cousins and Scott Cochman, of Grayling. 


Sather cg 


Nee. 


Articles and Photographs 


Reprinted from May 10, 17, 
24, and 31st Issues of the 
Crawford Co.Avalanche 


Northern Views 


By Jon Thompson 
Here are tenthings I'l carry with me from that tragic fire: 

1, Anyone who felt or saw that horrible wind pushing 
the forest fire knows how lucky we are that no human life 
was lost. 

2. Atone point Tuesday aftemoon on May 8 there were 
two large fires in Grayling Township, one large fire in 
South Branch, and several small ones along Arrowhead 
Rd. One fire was moving toward Lovells and the South 
Branch and Arrowhcad fires were pointed in the direction 
of Grayling. As strong as the wind was blowing and as dry 
as this county has been, guess what scary thoughts started 
creeping into people's thoughts? 

3. Our policemen, DNR conservation officers, DNR, 
Camp Grayling, township, and city firefightcrs put in 
some heroic efforts. Please store that in your memories. 

4. At nearly the same time Tuesday night that some 
people were actually praying for the rain to hit the fire 
area, the first reports of looting came in. 1 was madder 
than hell, But later on it became apparent the number of 
good people wanting to help outnumbered the looters 
probably 10,000 to 10. 

5. The mittions of dotlars lost may grab headlines but 
the losses that seem to hurt the most arc the possessions 
lost that hold special memori¢s. Possessions treasured 
because they can never be replaced. 

6. I don't agree with tetting the Governor and media 
into the arca before the homeowners. Homeowners 
deserve to be put in front of politicians and media. 

7, “The 2nd week of May.” Thad an ecric feeling the 
first time in 1983 ] heard DNR firefighter Duane Brooks 
say that the 2nd week in May has traditionally been the 
worst week of the ycar for fires in Crawford County. 
Almost all the big fires have struck during that one weck, 

8. We had that week's newspaper just about finished 
Tuesday afternoon when the fire struck. Because of all 
the rumors flying around, we rebuilt pages to include a 
forest fire story, stayed up all night covering the action, 
and took the pages to the printer in Gaylord at 5:30 a.m, 
hoping to have newspapers back in Grayling carlier than 
usual for people wanting information, A part broke on 
the press and we didn’t get the newspapers back to (own 
until 9:15 am, 

9. We have some of the most independent, stubbom 
people in the nation living in our county. But during a 
disaster, they're also the strongest, most determined, and 
even the most caring, 

10. Something that made the loss of all the homes, 
Structures, possessions, pets, wildtife, and forests even 
tougher to swallow .was an observation by Gmyling 
firefighter Dean Goss on Wednesday after the fires: “It 
this rain had come a day sooncr, all those houses and 
everything would still be here.” 


Opinions | 


Thank You 


National 


To the Editor: 

‘ollowing the fire on May 8 
T returned to my home. 
Though I lost my garage and 
sustained some damage to the 
rear of my home, the house 
and its contents were saved, 

While inspecting the house, 
two young men drove up and 
introduced themselves as fire- 
fighters from Frederic. As 
they were driving past my 
home, the day of the fire, they 
glimpsed an orange light in 
the garage, which tumed out 


Guards 


10 be a blaze at the rear, Lam 
sorry that I did not get the 
names of the gentlemen who 
surely saved my home. 

To them and to all of the 
wonderful people who have 
shown so much courage, care, 
and concem, I want to give 
my thanks. 

The kindness shown to me 
by everyone involved since 
the fire will never be forgot- 
ten. 

Norma G. Hull 
Grayling 


Kindness Will 
Never Be Forgotten 


To the Editor: 

] am a prond resident of 
Grayling and have been for 50 
years. In all that time I have 
seen old business go and new 
come in. Thave lived most of 
the SO years at Lake Margre- 
the, only a couple of miles 
from the National Guard 
Camp. In all those years | 
have never been bothered by 
ihe noise or the Guards them- 
selves personally. In fact, 1 


for onc am glad they are here. 
When we hear the “noise” we 
should feel secure in knowing 
we have them here to protect 
us in case they are needed. 
They have come through for 
Grayling many times - - one 
example is the recent fire. 

I for one would like to sa- 
lute the National Guard here 
in Grayling. 

Gloria A, Alef 
Grayling 


Believes in Miracles 


Editor: 

1 believe in miracles and 
would like to thank Dean Goss 
and all the fire fighters who 
worked so hard to savé my 
home on Stephan Bridge 


Road. It is a miracle that my 
home is still standing. 
M. Frankenfield 


Letters to the Editor 


Crawford County Is Filled 
With Wonderful, Caring People 


Dear Jon, 

Ihave never written a Ictler 
toan Editor before, but [think 
the events of the past few days 
warrant it. 

1 want to thank everyone 
who had anything to do with 
fighting the fire and furnish- 
ing aid and comfort to the 
fighters and evacuces alike. 

To our dear Lord, His holy 
Mother, His Angels, and His 
Saints for mercifully sparing 
the lives of all the people in- 
volved and for sparing the 
homes He did, ours included. 
For the saving and healing 
tain that got here just in the 
nick of time. We are not 
worthy. Thank you. 

We had dear friends and 
ncighbors wholosteverything 
they owned in the fire and we 
are SO very, very sorry. But 
you already know.... 

To Rex and Barbara Shep- 
ard for opening their hearts 
and their homes to us while 
the fire burned, To Rudy and 
Bobbie Martinez for the kind 
offer of their home to us, and 
to Terry and Rosemary Gal- 
lagher of Roscommon who 
offered us an apartment. 
Thank you. 

To the people who gave us 
their best wishes, their prayers 
and their love, at Glen's, the 
Grayling Country Club, 
Moore's Auto Parts, you know 
who you are ...thanks you. 

A very sincere, from the 
bottom of our hearts, THANK 
YOU and job well done, to 
every DNR Crew, all the fire 
department who come from 
all over Northem Michigan 
and the Michigan National 
Guard Units 1439th and 
1440th for risking life and limb 
to contain this horrible, dev- 
astaing fire, To Duane and 
Brenda LaMotte at “Function 
Junction” for a warm place to 
sitand hot coffee, comfort and 
kind words while we waited 
to go back to the bumed over 
area, 

In mentioning the National 
Guard, men from the 1439th 
and 1440th manned the Camp 
Grayling fire trucks and doz- 
crs, assisting the DNR and all 
the fire departments in con- 
taining the fire. 

A special congratulations 
and job well done toSSG Tom 
Shepard, SSG Dick LaPan and 
SPC 4 Tom Baldwin forkeep- 
ing Gate’s AuSable Fishing 
Lodge protected during the 
fire. You will never get it 
from him. Mr. Gates was 
quoted as saying it was an act 
of God that kept his lodge 
from buming. Knowing his 
attitude toward the Guard and 
how the majority of people 
feel toward him, I would say it 
was an act of God that you 
buried your personal feclings 
and kept spraying. Well done 
Gentlemen. 

ISU set up twenty four hour 
phone watch and guided 
evacuces toassistance, 1438th 
Engineers set up a dining hall 
on Camp Grayling and pro- 


vided beds for evacuees, 
Thank you. 

1071 HEMCO was attend- 
ing AT orsummercamp when 
the fire occurred, and they 
were the first lo get flood lights 
scl upand portable generators 
running at the fire command 
center, Those gencrators were 
manned for over thirty six 
hours by members of 1071 st. 
The Mess Scction started 
cooking food, provided by 
Glen’s at no charge, about 
10:00 p.m., Tuesday night to 
provide hot meals for the fire- 
fighters and cvacuces. They 
cooked all nightlong Tucsday 
andaliday Wednesday. They 
finally turned over food op- 
erations to the Red Cross 
Thursday in the morning. 
They provided a shuttle bus to 
lransport evacuces out to 
Camp Grayling and shelter, 
Thank you. 

Brigadicr Gencral Schulte, 
Adjutant General of the Ohio 
National Guard, offered the 
men and equipment that were 
here to help fight the fire and 
he made it known that if they 
weren't cnough, he would 
send more, The helicopters 
that carried the huge buckets 
full of water to help drench 
the fire belonged to Ohio 
National Guard. Thank you. 

To all units of Camp Gray- 
ling, and the Ohio National 
Guard, Gentlemen, and La- 
dies, you can be proud of 
yourselves and your Units. 
Well done. 


To the Michigan State Po- 
lice, the Crawford County 
Sheriff's Department, The 
Roscommon County Sheriff's 
Department and all other po- 
lice departments I don’tknow 
about, and the people behind 
the scenes at these depart- 
ments, for their fast action in 
setting up road blocks and 
evacuating all of us, the main- 
(enance of those road blocks 
had to require considerable 
patience, and you came 
through with flying colors, For 
patrolling the fire devastated 
areas after the fires went 
through, for acting as guides 
to those of us who needed to 
secif we still had homes, thank 
you. 

To the local chapter Red 
Cross Volunteers and Insur- 
ance Agents, the Pastors of all 
the churches and all the busi- 
nesscs in Grayling who pro- 
vided food, bedding, care, 
comfortand Spirited guidance 
during this most trying of 
limes. Thank you and God 
Bless you. 

To Top ‘O Michigan Rural 
Electric Company and GTE 
North for their co-operation 
during the fire and for the quick 
restoration of services after 
the fire, Thank you. 

To all the people who 
washed dishes, served food, 
donated clothing, blankets, 
comfort, your lime, to every- 
one of you, thank you and 
God bless you. 


Resource Review 


By Bruce Patrick, 
Conservation Oficer 


The Stephan Bridge Road 
Fire of 1990 is now history, 
and a terrible memory for 
hundreds of people. As] write 
this, ] do not know the final 
figure for lost homes, garages 
and property. Roughly 70 
Structures with an estimate 
value of 2.5 million dollars 
were lost according to pre- 
liminary estimates. As greata 
tragedy as this is, it is nothing 
short of miraculous that there 
were no deaths or scrious in- 
juries, This kind of wind 
driven wildfire can race at 
terifying speed, consuming 
everything in its path. 

I honestly feel that deaths 
would have occurred had it 
not been for the efforts of a 
handful of Conservation Offi- 
cers and Shenffs Deputies 
who risked their own lives to 
wam and evacuate residents 
inthe path of the fire, Tcannot 


say enough about what the 
officers did to help the resi- 
dents of the area. 

Something else that most 
people do not realize is that 
we nearly lost a DNR pilot 
airplane. The Aircraft was 
working the fire when the 
engine quit at low altitude. 
The pilot was auiempting to 
land on North Down River 
Road, but could not because it 
was filled with traffic. Mostly 
gawkers. Fortunately, he was 
able to restart the engine and 
barely made the Grayling 
Airport. 

DNR fire fighters were also 
at risk as they attempted to 
save what they could for 
people in the areca. 

You may not like every- 
thing the Department of Naw- 
tal Resources does, but it is a 
public service agency. This 
was very evident in the late 
afternoon of May 8, 1990. 


To you Jon, last, but cer- 
tainly not Icast, and to your 
staff for the fine coverage of 
the fire in the Crawford 
County Avalanche. Your 
information helped answer a 
lot of questions. Thank you. 

If 1 have missed anyone, | 
ask your forgivencss, it was 
not intentional. Thank you 
and God bless you. 

Crawford County is filled 
with wonderful, caring people. 
It’s a terrific place to live. 

Lynda K. Hetrick 


Thanks 
Again 


To the Editor: 

Many thanks to our imme- 
diate family, D.N.R. officer 
Bruce Patrick, Red Cross, and 
all those people too numerous 
io mention for all they have 
donc tohelp us. Thanks again 
and again. 

Mr, & Mrs. Charics Dixon 


Tremendous 
Job Done 


Asoncof many private citi- 
zens I wish to commend all 
who had a part in the evacuat- 
ing of all the people the day of 
the fire. The Fire Fighters, 
D.N.R., National Guards, 
Sheriff Departments, and all 
who helped. You did a tre- 
mendous job and in such a 
bricf time, Many thanks to 
you all, 

M. Smith 


Notes from the Woods 


By Nancy Lemmen 


Rearend ain 


~My Sincere 
Thanks To: 


* NANCY NIEDERER 

* DAVE NIEDERER 

* JODI HARWOOD 

* KARY HARWOOD 

* TODD GABRIEL 

* JERRY FAGAN 

* ALLEN FAGAN 

* TODD MESSERSCHMIDT 
* GEORGE ROHDE 


These friends, relatives 
and neighbors saved my 
homo from the fire which 
was backburning toward 
Thendara Road. They put 
in many hard hours of 
labor. By saving my 
home, I believe they also 
saved the homes of oth- 
ers. The fire had jumped 


the first trench and was. 


heading West. I want 
them to know their efforts 
will always be remem- 
bered and are greatly 
appreciated. 


Milene Steele 
Grayling Twp. 


Thanks 
To All 


To the Editor: 

We would like to say “thank 
you very much” to everyone 
who had a part in helping to 
fight the fire here in Grayling 
on Tuesday, May 8, 1990, 

Because of everyone's hard 
work, our home did not burn. 
We'll never forget what you 
did for us! 

Ken & Jeanne Hey 
Grayling 


Thank You Letters 
Accepted Here 


In the aftermath of the May 8th forest fires, the 
Avalanche will be accepting thank you notes from fire 
victims and will publish them free of charge on our 


letters to the editor page. 


Heartwarming To See How 
Community Joined Together 


Dear Editor, 

My sympathy goes out to 
those residents who lost their 
homes and property in the 
devastating fire which swept 
through the AuSable River 
Valley this last week. We 
should ail be grateful that lives 
were not lost. It is extremely 
heartwarming to sce how the 
community joined together to 
give its time, resources, and 
especially themselves during 
this crisis. 


So Many 
Care 


A big thank you from the 
famities of Pappy’s Trail to 
everyone who worked so hard 
tosavc ourhomes. Also to the 
policeman who helped cvacu- 
ate, 

Also to Borchers Canoe 
rental who Ect us camp out and 
enjoy a home cooked break- 
fast. 

The nightmare of this will 
always stay with us but the 
comfort of knowing there are 
so many people who care is a 
big help. 

Grant and Chery] 
Alandt 


Ihave been spending much 
of my time in the Grayling 
area for the last 17 years. 
Needless to say, I feel as 
though I am a part of that 
community, The concern for 
preservation of nature and the 
environment and quality of 
life is shared by all. This is 
evident in how quickly the 
DNR, the American Red 
Cross, the National Guard, 
local businesses and con- 
cerned individuals reacted to 
rclieve (he suffering and prop- 
erty loss of their neighbors. 

With so much of my time 
spent in Grayling, it's been 
hard to avoid the conflict be- 
tween AMAC, the Anglers, 
the AuSable Conservation 
Trust and the National Guard. 
But when the chips were 
down, whocame through? Of 
all these groups, the only or- 
ganized effort I saw was the 
National Guard — housing 
and feeding evacuees and 


‘lending a hand wherever 
needed. 


If I had to “choose sides” in 
this debate, I don’t think it 
would surprise anyone if I 
went for the Grayling Com- 
munity and the National 
Guard. As far as I can tell, 
they are one and the same. 

Bob Sauvage 
Bay City 


Tuesday, May 8, 1990. 

Now to tell Dave, At six o’clock, the two of us had 
been sitting in Taste of Traverse cating an early dinner of 
vegctable lasagna and frozen Iemon yogurt, In the short 
span of one and one half hours since then, I have been to 
the inferno and back. 

So now to Iell Dave. But what and how to tell him? 
Tam not very good at dissembling, so I report the simple 
truth as ] know it: 

There has been a horrible forest fire. I saw the 
parage burning. Moments later I saw the house burning. 
I do not have the animals with me. 

His response is a wail: Fcan live without the house, 
but Ican’e live without the animals. 

I don’t think they are alive, [tell him, I saw the 
house and I saw the garage, but I did not sce them. 
Although [tricd, J tell him, I heard the reports of fire as 
I drove toward Grayling, and I defied a roadblock to get 
home, and I tricd hard to save them, but 1 don’t think . , 


I wait for an hour or morc as he drives from Traverse 
City to Grayling alone. He tells me fater that in the car, 
he called out the names of the pets. Jody. Missy, 
Murphy, Ally. Ifhis calling their names again and again 
could have saved them, they would be here with us today. 

Meanwhile darkness descends and a chill sets in 
and the tardy rain begins to fall. We mect somewhere 
along North Down River Road at nine o’clock and wait 
with all the others for some news. When can we retum to 
our homes? Are there homes standing to which we can 


rectum? Rumors swirl and conflicting reports abound. ~ 


I see a small black dog with a woman, who is using 
a towel in place of a leash. The dog looks like Murphy. 
I shine my flashlight on him and the woman recoils as if 
she thinks I will take him from her, But! will not, because 
he is not my Murphy. 

That night we wait until cleven, then leave with 
friends, They will housc us and nounsh usin the next few 
hours and the next few days, as the magnitude of the 
disaster unfolds, 

We are surrounded by good people who comfort us 
until twelve, then until one, and finally, until two, when 
we stumble off to the bedroom, Dave and 1 talk until 
three, until four, until five. Perhaps we drift in and out 
of sleep for a few minutes between five and six, when we 
getup. We want to go home, 

When the officials finally let us back, we go first to 
the garage. Surely the kitten Ally died in the house, but 
maybe - MAYBE - the dogs escaped under the fence. 
They have donc it before. We sec a fresh hole and fora 
few moments we feel hope for the first time since the 
evening before. 

It is shortlived. Our friends find the remains of 
Murphy, then Missy. Dave is stoic, but now J wail. They 
look further for Jody, but cannot find her. Tan distressed 
because T want her buried with her kennelmates. 

Dave and ! are like parents who, though sickened 
by the messes of others, can easily and lovingly clean the 
vomit and the offal of their own children. We pick up the 
charred remains of our dogs and take them to be buried 
next to Buddy. 

When we buried Buddy four years ago, we senthim 
to the afterworld with food and treats and balls and sticks 


to sustain him in his journey. We have no such niceties 
to send with Missy and Murphy, but I suspect that they 
will not be needing sustenance or toys. 

They take only their bells, which they wore in this 
world, so we could track them as they ran off on their 
various unapproved adventures. Dave says later that for 
a moment he wished he had kept the bells. But then, he 
adds, they would only have served as a reminder of the 
dogs and he does not reed bells to remind him of Missy 
and Murphy. 

We are miffed at Missy. She was the lead dog, and 
she has tricked us so many times in the past to sneak off 
and into trouble. Why did she not use her wiles to escape 
this time? Perhaps she tried. Perhaps the space under the 
fence was her futile attempt. 

We try to accept that our life with our pets is over. 
In the days and months and years to come, we will grieve 
for: 

Jody, the mangy puppy that became the grand dame 
of our family. Our greying, arthritic 13-year-old black 
Lab/German short hair pointer was my birthday gift 
from Dave in 1977, In her prime, Jody was a combina- 
tion of mountain goat, Earth mother and Prom queen, A 
team player, she refused to be an only dog after Buddy 
died in 1986, so we got her... 

Missy, a lovely, spirited, athletic yellow Lab cross 
that was about to be shot by an owner who could not 
tolerate her chasing the deer in his yard. Usually we 
called her“ Mischief,” Other animals adored Missy, even 
the neighbor cats and our own kitten. We took her 
through three terms of dog obedience classes, so that our 
friends and family might love her too. She was the best 
buddy of... 

Murphy, anctermally happy, wiggly mutt that looked 
like a miniature black Lab. Dave found him abandoned 
under a mobile home in the winter of 1987 and brought 
him home, Daveand Murphy were “the guys.” The two 
of them would regularly curl up on the couch for an 
evening of good reading. Occasionally he woutd do the 
same with me. He wasa little frightened of .. . 

Ally, a wild yet gentle six-month-old grey kitten, 
We were just getting to know her, but already loved her. 
In bed Dave would fall asleep with his arm crooked to 
make a place for her when she was ready to scttle down 
for the night. When he awoke near moming, she would 
be curled up against his arm, waiting to have her neck 
scratched and her tummy stroked. 

I find her little grey bones in the area that had been 
our kitchen. We bury them in one of the many holes that 
Murphy had dug on the property in his constant quest to 
subdue the gopher and chipmunk traffic. 

And yes, we lost our home and all of our belongings. 
T will deat with that loss later, but today it seems only a 
footnote to the four little lives that went with the fire. 

} remember this quotation by Sophia Loren, of all 
people. She said, “Never love anything that can’t love 
you back.” When I read it years ago, I thought it scemed 
wise counsel, ¥ still do today, even as I recall the literally 
thousands of items that I erroncousty believed made up 
my existence, 

Of course il was not the things. 1¢ was our family 
and our fricnds and our pets. Today I can only trust that 
to the end, those little creatures knew how beloved they 
were to us and how lonely we would be without them. 


| 


Oe a Re ee See RR Ay ee 


Letters to the Editor 


Mee ge NG on pegs ON the pas 


Dear Sirs: 

This is a letter in thanks to the 
DNR and the people who were 
directly involved in fighting 
the fire. 

My wife’s cottage and the 
homes of her relatives next to 
us were spared, Itis clear that 
the fire fighters stopped the 
fire from reaching one of our 
homes, for which we are all 
very thankful, especially since 
five cottages and homes near 
us were not as fortunate, Even 
though there was a great loss 
of property, it is clear that the 
fire fighters saved many 


Until we could get into the 
area to assess the damage it 
was a very stressful period. | 
would also like to say that ail 
of the people that I came in 
contact with were very polite 
and sympathetic. This is par- 
ticularly true of the State Po- 
lice, Crawford County 
Sheriff's Deputies, and the 
DNR officers who manned the 
road blocks. | also found the 
public utility employces cour- 
teous and helpful. 

After the fire had swept 


through the arca, property 
owners were kept out of the 
area much longer than was 
necessary. There were four 
reasons given at different 
times why the property own- 
ers were not allowed to enter 
the fire area: 1, Hotspots; 2. 
Downed power lines; 3, 
Looters in the area; and the 
worst one of all 4, The Gov- 
emor had not inspected the 
area yet. During the height of 
the fire all people must be 
kept out of the fire area to 
facilitate the fighting of the 
fire and preventconfusion, but 
I do not believe that because 
the Govemor is going to in- 
spect the area he has more 
rights than the property own- 
ers whose property is directly 
involved, Allowing property 
owners access to their prop- 
erty would not have interfered 
with the Governor’s flightover 
the area. Property owners 
gathered at the corner of 
Stephan Bridge Road and N. 
Down River Road were in- 
censed at this one. 


Once the immediate fire 
danger had passed, none of 
those reasons have any valid- 


Heartful Thanks 
To All Who Helped 


Editor: 

A heartful “Thank You” to 
all the Fire Fighters, Law 
Enforcement Officers, Na- 
tional Guard, Red Cross 
Workers, Emergency Services 
Council, Volunteers, K of C 
Members & Spouses, Utility 
Service Employees, our Fami- 
lies (especially the Martella's 
and McDonell's), many 
Friends and Neighbors for all 
their support, prayers and 
clean-up work during our 


recent traumatic experience in 
the fire. We can't begin to 
thank cach one of youcnough. 
We arc among the very 
fortunate who still have a 
home torctum to. We ask that 
you continue to help and pray 
for those around us who do 
not. We can’t begin to com- 
prehend what they must be 
going through now and will 
continuc to experience in the 

future, 
Mike & Beth Wieland 


Grayling Fire Department 
Thanks Everyone For Support 


Editor: 

The Grayling Fire Depart- 
ment extends their sympathy 
to the victims of the fires on 
May 8th, 1990. We feel the 
helplessness you are feeling 
and our thoughts are with you. 

We would also like to thank 
‘all persdns connected with 
Emergency Services, civil- 
ians, and businesses for sup- 
port during and after the fire 


County 


Jon Thompson 


LeRoy H. Papendick 
Plant Production Supt. 


Alice Galvani 
Business Office 


Linda Golnick 
Business Office 


Todd Pfaff 
Composition/circulation 


Telephone; 517/348-6811 


Crawford Ayglanche 


Established 1878 


Member of the Michigan Press Association 
ald the National Newspaper Association 


Irene Pettyjohn 
Editor & General Manager Reporter - Photographer 


Kim McClain 
Advertising Director 


Debbie St. Germain 
Advertising 


Sharon Lynch 
Composition/jypesctting 


Office: 110 1/2 Michigan Ave., Grayling 
Mail Address: P.O. Box 490, Grayting, MI 49738 


Subscription Rates 
Cne year for subscriber in Crawford, Roscommon, Kalkaska, Otsego, 
and Oscoda COUNTES..c. recesses 
Onc year outside these counties... 
One year local senior citizens......... siesta, 
Onc year non-local senior CIUZONS, 0. ie tseneeteanrcne $12.00 


(USPS 136 866) 

Entered as Second Class Matter al the Poat Office at Grayting, Michigan, 49738, 
wader the Actof Congress of March 3, 2919, Published cach Thursday at 1001/2 Mk higan 
Ave, Grayling, MI 49758 Por changing your address send U.S. Peet Office Form 3579 
Wo Crawford County Avalanche, P.O, Box 496, Crayting, MI 49734 


suppression efforts. 

It’s heartbreaking to realize 
that it takes a disaster of this 
magnitude for all of us to put 
aside our indifferences and 
bond together for the attain-— 
ment of the same goal; but 
heartvamming to know that we 
can, because we did - and did 
so because that's the way we 
are. 

The Grayling Fire 
Department 


Stic O00 


ity over the rights of the prop- 
erty Owners to inspect and 
protect their property, espe- 
Cially those of permanent resi- 
dents. The permanent resi- 
dents should have been al- 
lowed in immediately even if 
there was some danger to 
themselves on showing proof 
of residency in the fire area, 
i.e. drivers license. Non-resi- 
dent property owners should 
be allowed in on furnishing 
proof of ownership, i.e. copy 
of tax notice ora simple noton 
official stationary issued by 
the township or county treas- 


Page 5 -- AVALANCHE -- Thursday, MAY 24, 1990 


Le tne neey 


overnor's Inspection 


urcr stating that the person 
owns property in the fire area. 
By allowing property owners 
in, they could fight the hot 
spots themselves, stop foot- 
ers, and direct linemen as 
needed. 

I was allowed in some 16° 
hours after the fire had been 
brought under control and 
some 20 hours after the fire 
had passed by my home. There 
were still smoldering logs and 
stumps that I put out. I was 
able to save the phone and 
electric line men necdiess 
duplication of effort and time 


by telling them our wires were 
OK and that our neighbor’s 
wire was nol. Several electric 
and phone linemen came to 
inspect the lines and were able 
to continue on without having 
to check further. 


The biggest problem was 
with gawkers and sightseers. 
[ can not believe the number 
ofcuriosity seekers who drove 
in just to see what had hap- 
pened, including two differ- 
ent instances where people 
with trucks drove in and when 
they saw my wife or me they 


left in a big hurry. 

Road blocks are necessary, 
especially to keep out people 
who have no legitimate rea- 
son to be there, but the prop- 
erty Owners, especially per- 
manentresidents, should have 
been allowed in as soon as the 
imminent danger had passed 
and it was daylight. 

Thank you fire fighters on 
behalf of myself and my 
immediate neighbors. For 
those who were not so fortu- 
nate, my hearifelt sympathy. 

John B. Pruchnicki 
Flushing, MI 


A Hope For The Future 


Last week as I was tidying 
up before going to bed, I re- 
flected on our evening drive. 
Usually our drives are so re- 
laxing, and they help us set the 
pace for the weekend tocome. 
We have spent many of them 
along the lakeshore, rolling 
along the countryside, and 
watching the sunset. 

My boys had already gone 
to bed, and my husband was 
making his way to ours, We 
were all exhausted from the 
previous work week. I de- 
cided I couldn’t sleep until I 
had some peace of mind. For 
you see this week, our drive 
took us along North Down 
River Road, Stephan Bridge 
Road, and Wakely Bridge 
Road. 

I remember Tuesday viv- 
idly. The sun was shining and 
it had the promise of being a 
beautiful spring day, with just 
a taste of summer to come. I 
had high hopes for a renewing 
of my spirits. Things changed, 
asmy oldest son woke up with 
a high fever and vomiting. 

Halfway through the moming 
I was hanging on the clothes- 
line every blanket, afghan, 
sheet, pillow covers, andeven 
the cushion cover from the 
couch. This is not what I had 


planned to do with my day. I 
was thankful for the strong 
winds that dried my washing 
so quickly. 

That same wind that 1 was 
so grateful for, was later to 
become acurse to others. That 
afternoon the wind took a 
small flame and turned it into 
an inferno. The sirens blared 
non-stop for hours. By late 
afternoon, I was realizing this 
was more than just an ordi- 
nary fire. 

From my front porch, my 
workroom, I watched as my 
neighbors loaded up all the 
children and friends and 
headed out vehicle by vehicle, 
to watch the fire. The smoke 
was high into the sky now and 
making its presence known to 
many. 

Evacuations of residents in 
the path of the fire were now 
intensifying. Roadblocks 
were Set up to keep the curi- 
ous from coming into the dis- 
aster area, Then there were 
the looters. You know the 
rest. 

On Friday night, when all 
the areas were clear, we too 
went for a drive to see with 
our own eycs, the horrors the 
television screen had been 
revealing. Our drive revealed 


the parched, blackened for- 
ests, the foundation and chim- 
neys that were once a part ofa 
home. People standing in 
small groups trying to com- 
fort one another in front of a 
desolate, scorched, rubble they 
once called “home.” 

Inanareaof 1/2 mile, where 
5 houses once made upa nice 
little neighborhood, two re- 
mained. They were scorched, 
the siding literally melted and 
curled, the other three were no 
longer there. 

The landing where we had 
waited for canoe’s on Sun- 
day, was now blackened. The 
flowers, trees, and the stump 
where tny boys had played, 
were all charred. 

Can you hear the cries of 
those who suffered the loss 
two weeks ago. “Hear my 
prayer, O Lord, and let my cry 
come unto thee. Hide not they 
face from me in the day when 
I am in trouble; incline thine 
ear unto me: in the day when 
Icallanswer me specdily. For 
my days are consumed like 
smoke, and my bones are 
bumedas an hearth. My heart 
is smitten and withered like 
gtass; so that I forget toeat my 
bread. By reason of the voice 
of my groaning my bones 


Reader Says DNR Should Stop 
Leasing Land To Oil Companies 


Dear Mr. Thompson, 

I would like to say that I am 
sorry to all the good folks that 
have lost their homes and 
everything in them and we all 
can be thankful that no one 
got hurt and no one lost their 
lives in the fire and I would 
like to thank each and every 
one that helped in anyway 
when we had this fire. We all 
became friends and helped 


Still Paying Price 


each other. I hope it will stay 
that way — just like Earth 
Day should be year round, not 
just for a day. 

I would like to ask the DNR 
officers in Lansing to stop 
leasing the land to the oil 
companies because all you are 
doing is helping to damage 
the environment and harm the 
wildlife. Ido not know if you 
people are for the oil compa- 


nies or if you are for a clean 
environment. If you are fora 
clean environment then do not 
lease the land to the oil com- 
panics; the fire did too much 
damage and we do not need 
the oil companies to do any 


more damage than they are 


doing now tothe environment. 


Joe Stanek 
Grayling 


For Cutting White Pine 


Dear Jon: 

The tragic fire at Grayling 
reestablishes one of the laws 
of nature. When the balance 
of nature is upset or altered, a 
price must be paid. 

The price for the cutting 
down of the Amazonian rain 
forests wiil be paid for by our 
children and grandchildren by 
& gradual warming of the earth 
and its attendant disasters. 

The price paid for by South- 
em Californians who build 
their homes over and over 
again in the canyons and ar- 


royos that are dried by the 
Santa Ana winds, or cirocco, 
is the destruction of those 
homes when the inevitable 
fires begin, 

The price is still being paid 
for by us the for the massive 
cutting of the White Pine for- 
estsin Michigan. In yourarea, 
the immediate price was the 


siltation of the AuSable River 


and the loss of the Grayling 
trout. The successive price 
was theestablishment of aJack 
Pine forest that is genetically 
determined to bum periodi- 


People Make 
Tragedy Easier 
To Accept 


Never ina million years did 
we think that the home we 
grew up in would be taken 
away from us. At such a dif- 
ficult and devastating time in 
our life, so many people have 
meant so much and made this 
tragedy a little casier to ac- 
cept. We would like to thank 
the Red Cross for all their 
assistance and caring, the 
churches for food, clothing 
and linen, and all the unmen- 


tioned for your love, support , 
and kindness. We know say- 
ing “Thank You” may not be 
enough, buteverything you've 
done has incant so much and 
we appreciate it more than we 
can express. You've made 
our life alot brighter with your 
help as we start to rebuild our 
life. Thanks to everyone who 
volunteered, 

The Del Sheldon Famity 


cally so that its pinecones can 
release their seeds. The 
immediate price is the loss of 
the homes of those who choose 
to build there. 

My question is, unlike the 
Califomians who build in tin- 
derbox canyons oron the sides 
of mountains that periodically 
have mud slides that take 
homes down with them, have 
we learned from this disaster 
not to build in the same or 
similar environment again? 

Michael H. Johnson 
Lansing, MI 


Thanks To 
Firefighters 


To all Firefighters and 
workers: 

We extend lo you our deep- 
cst gratitude and sincere 
thanks for your long hours of 
work and dedication during 
the fire of 1990! Thanks! To 
those who suffered loss from 
the fire, our love and heartfelt 
sympathy. God Bless. 

The Johnsons 
Pine Road 


cleave to my skin. Iam likea 
pelican of the wilderness: I 
am like an owl of the desert. I 
watch, and am as a sparrow 
alone upon the house top.” 
“Mine enemies reproach me 
all the day; and they that are 
mad against me are sworn 
against me. For I have eaten 
ashed like bread, and mingled 
by drink with weeping.” Ps 
102:1-9. 

Ourcompassion goes out to 
them who have suffered loss. 
We pray for them, to have the 
courage and the strength to 
endure the present. “Restore, 
I pray you, to them, even this 
day, their lands, their vine- 
yards, their oliveyards, and 
their houses, also the hun- 
dredth part of the money, and 
of the com, the wine, and the 
oil...” Neh 5:11. 

And we also wish to impart 
to those who have fost so 
much, a hope for the future, 
by letting them know that 
“God shall wipe away all tears 
from their eyes; and there shall 
be no more death, neither 
sorrow, nor crying, neither 
shall there be any more pain: 
for the former things are 
passed away.” Rev 21:4, 

Darlyn Townsend 
Grayling 


. am 
, ed 


at 


By Joe Murphy 


SUL alia 


arene SOA 


The tragic fire that struck our area on the cighth of May 

was the most costly in property in our county’s history, 
But we can all be thankful that no lives were lost. The fact 
that the number one priority was evacuating folks from 
the endangered arcas is highly commendable. Property 
can be replaced, human life can’t. Perhaps more could 
have been saved but al the cost of human lives. My heart 
goes out (0 those that lost their homes. But I feel a great 
deal of pride of the way folks pitched in to help their 
neighbors in their time of need, Fire departments from 
many surrounding towns were there to help. City Police 
Officer Dennis Long tclls of while manning a road block 
a fire truck manned by two young ladics from Lewiston 
appeared through the heavy smoke. They asked him if 
there was ahome near by. He replied that onc that might 
have already bumed was back in ona nearby road. They 
said they’d check and took off through the heavy smoke. 
He became worried when they didn't come back and 
went in to find them busy saving the home. There were 
many acts of heroism on that tragic day. We should say 
a big Thank You to everyone who worked so hard to 
contain that terrible fire. 

The outpouring of aid for the fire’s victims again 
proves that concem and love for others is alive and well 
in this area. Sometimes we tend to feel that neighbor 
helping neighbor is a thing of the past. Then in times of 
need the outpouring of Christian love people demon- 
Strate proves us wrong. To everyone who stepped for- 
ward tc offer help to the fire’s victims another big Thank 
You for restoring my faith in human nature. 

Another point! wish to make is while we expect the fire 
department, the D.N.R., andthe National Guardtocommit 
and endanger men and equipment in fighting fire, there 
were many private contractors who furnished men and 
equipment to the fire suppression efforts. Again I fecl we 
owe them a big Thank You. 

The local merchants were there to do all they could in 
supplying food both for the fire fighters and its victims, 
The school offered the victims a place of shelter. Again, 
Camp Grayling proved a good neighbor in opening 
buildings for the over flow from the school. The Red 
Cross was right on the job along with many others to _ 
serve the needs of those evacuated from the fire’s path. I 
know there arc many that gave aid that I may have failed 
te mention, A Big Thank You To All Who Helped In 
Any Way On That Tragic Day And lis Aftermath. I am 
very proud to be a part of this arca and its caring people. 


I think that full page ad that appeared in last week's 
Avalanche was very impressive and will do much to 
show that Crawford County residents arc not all anu 
Camp Grayling or industrial growth. All of us want to sec 
our cnvironment protected and improved but balanced by 
Lne reality of the need for growth and development. We 
cannot shut down alf growth and still provide a livelihood 
for those younger folks that also wish to live here. The 
vast majority of our residents see the need for controls, 
and we have agencies charged with that responsibility; 
let’s give them a chance lo do their job. | wish to Thank 
everyone who signed and or contributed to help pay for 
the ad. Thank You For Caring. 


Let Us Help Now And Someday 
You Can Be On The Giving End 


An Open Letter To The Fire 
Victims: 

] am going to presume to 
speak for the rest of the com- 
munity, although I have no 
right, but [ want you to under- 
Stand how most of us feel. 
From the moment we heard of 
the devastating fire on Tues- 
day, we have prayed for life 
and safety; we have agonized 
over how best to show our 
suppon when we realized what 
a true tragedy it was going to 
be for so many people. 

By Wednesday everyone I 
know was either calline or 
showing up at the various re- 
lief agencies around town, 
saying “Howcan! help? What 
can 1 do? Whatis needed?” 
And the answers were neither 
simple nor certain, because 
we could only imagine your 
loss, not having gone through 
it Ourselves. What we did 
know is how it feels to stand 
hetplessly by while our friends 
and neighbors losc everything 
they have worked for all their 
lives. We had to do some- 
thing, but what? 

In most cases we have tried 
to find our own answers; 
money and houschold sup- 
plics, clothing and food came 


pouring in; churches were 
mobilized to handle the in- 
flux. The Knights of Colum- 
bus opened theirhall torcscuc 
workers, Red Cross and So- 
cial Services; voluntecrs 
manned phones and helped 
with logistics. Businesses, 
stores, the hospital, the Na- 
tional Guard, and others all 
began in their various ways to 
lry to minimize the damage. 
People from other communi- 
lies throughout the state called 
— of came — or sent things, 
because they too, necded to 
do something. 

What prompted this letter 
are two families I know of thai 
were affected by the fire — 
onc istoo proud to take “hand- 
outs”; another is hesitant, 
saying that “other people may 
need it worse than we do.” 
We are wondering if some of 
you might feel the way one of 
these families docs. Please 
don’t! We're all in this world 
together, and when we're up 
against forces we can’t con- 
trol, no one should have to -—— 
orshould try to— standalone. 

Many of you are covered by 
insurance and will eventually 
get your lives back on track 
We're confident of that. 


Articles and Photographs 
Reprinted from May 10, 17, 


24, and 31st Issues of the 
Crawford Co.Avalanche 


Also, we know it’s not casy 
to accept “charity” — we all 
take pride in our scif-suf- 
fiency, right? Butitshouldn’t 
be difficult to accept love, and 
such an outpouring of love 
and concern I have never secn 
before! Let us help you now, 
for our sakes, if not for your 
own. 

Take the money, the furni- 
lure, theclothes, the food, ctc., 
and rebuild your lives; some- 
day, when you're stronger, 
some of us will need to leanon 
you, and we know you'll be 
there! 

Phyllis Hamilton 


DNR Thanks 
Community 


Editor: 

We wish to express our sin- 
cere gratitude for the way the 
public agencies and private 
sector pulled together on the 
recent wildfires in Crawford 
County. 

It would be impossible to 
name all who provided heavy 
equipment, water tankers, 
food, ctc. Township fire de- 
partments, county sheriff, state 
police, National Guard, and 
others joined forces with the 
Department of Natural Re- 
sources to form a coordinated 
evacuation/fire suppression 
lecam. 

Similarly the townships, 
county, Red Cross, arca 
schools, and churches and 
many private businesses and 
individuals rallied to assist the 
familics who suffered the 

tragic loss of theirhomes. This 
effort continues, 

To all who have joined in 
this total community effort 
Thank You. 

Michigan Department of 
Natural Resources 


ON SITE INSPECTION--Governor James 
Blanchard and DNR director David Hales visited 
the burned area Wednesday afternoon. The gover- 
nor said state aid would be made available to the vic- 


tims of the fire. Photo by Irene Pettyjohn 


Property Damage 
Estimates Reach 
$5.5 Million 


By Irene Pettyjohn 

Property damage estimates have reached the $5.5 million 
mark as insurance companies continuc to process claims from 
victims of the devastating forest fire that ripped through 
Crawford County on Tuesday, May 8. 

George Stancil, vice president of the Comell Agency, said 
preliminary estimates of losses insured by his agency alone 
have reached $2 million and will go higher. He said two other 
Grayling independent insurance agencies, Sorenson and Gray- 
ling Insurance, have processed 26 more loss claims that total 
about $650,000. 

State Farm Insurance has approved in excess of $600,000 in 
claims. Disaster supervisor for the agency, Bill Heemer, who 
has becn working from a temporary office at the Grayling 
Holiday Inn, said they are still getting a trickle of claims, 
primarily for tree damage. 

Herb Olson, agent for the Grayling Farm Bureau [nsurance 
office, said his company has approved nearly $200,000 in 
claims that varied from one total loss of a residence, destroyed 
recreational vehicles to smoke damage. 

Total insured losses are estimated at $5.5 million, but Stancil 
said a complete loss figure, insured and uninsured, is difficult 
to project because of the fluctuation of land values. 

“It is not uncommon for us to process one million dollars in 
small claims during a year,” said Stancil, “but $2 million inone 
day puts a different color on things,” 

Stancil said, at last count, Cornell had processed claims for 
31 total residential losses. 

RELIEF EFFORTS CONTINUE 

As fire victims file for insurance claims, community relief 
efforts continue to try to help with its citizen’s losses. 

Last Friday, Crawford County cmergency management 
director Howard Taylor announced that the federal govern- 
ment had declared the county a disaster area, making fire 
victims eligible for a variety of services. He said a One Stop 
Assistance Center will be established at the Knights of Colum- 
bus Hall on Norway Strect beginning Wednesday, May 30,and 
concluding at 4 p.m. on Friday, June 1. (Sec details in separate 
article in this week’s issue.) 

In addition to Taylor, representatives of the Ministerial 
Association will be present to accept applications from victims 
of the fire. 

Rev, Robert Gordon, president of the Ministerial Assoc., 
said his organization is asking everyone who has a need as a 
result of the fire, regardless of the size, to make application 
with them so that they can assess the community's needs and 
begin processing the applications, according to need. Gordon 
said the Ministerial Assoc. is hoping to have all applications by 
July Ist. 

“The Salvation Army, American Red Cross and Michigan 
Dept. of Social Services arc limited to type and quantity of 
services they can give,” said Rev. Gordon. “We are not,” 

He said the Ministerial Assoc. will be focusing their assis- 
tance on needs not covered by the other agencies. 

The organization of local clergy has received more than 
$47,000 in donations for fire victims. These donations range 
from $110.85 given by the Grayling Middle School fifth grade 
students, earned by collecting pop bottles, to a $10,000 dona- 
tion from Shel! Western. 

“The goal of this organization is to use these funds to help the 
fire victims,” said Father Derik Roy, treasurer for the group, 
“not to have $30,000 sitting in the bank this time next year.” 

“The folks who had the least and lost the most are the pcoplc 
we need to help the first,” said Rev. Gordon. “But every 
application will be considered, and we will be extending 
financial support as long as the moncy holds out.” 

Clothing ouuets are beginning toclose their operations as the 
need for clothing is diminishing. 

Rev, Gordon said a truck from St. Vincent DePaul, of 
Detroit, came to St. John Lutheran Church fast Friday and took 
the clothing items not needed by fire victims. Inmates from the 
Crawford County Jail helped foad the bags of clothing on the 
tnick, 

St. John Lutheran Church's fellowship hall and sanctuary 
have been so full of clothing since the fire that Sunday worship 
services were held outside on May 13, and at St. Mary’s 
Catholic Church on May 20, 

Clothing and food items will be available at the St. Mary’s 
Catholic Church Family Center for one more week, and then 
clothing needs will be handled through the St. Francis Thrift 
Shop. Father Roy said there will be no charge for fire victims. 
Clothing will be available through the Thrift Shop for three or 
four months, or until all the needs of the community have been 


met. 


Reprinted from May 24 issue 


The May 8th forest fire started from a brush and dirt pile that 
had been burned seven and a half weeks earlier, according to 
DNR investigators. 

No charges were sought against the owner of the brush pile, 
Gerald Fagan, 57, of Thendara Rd., because of the “incredibly 
bizarre set of circumstances” said Crawford County Prosecu- 
tor John Huss. 

Fagan had burned the brush pile on March 16 with a DNR 
permit while there was one inch of snow on the ground, The 
brush pile had apparently burned out within the weck and 
Fagan had checked the pile periodically after that and found no 
fire left. 

Even though it snowed and rained after that date, some of the 
coals remained beneath the dirt and ashes and were re-ignited 
by the strong winds nearly seven weeks later on May 8th. DNR 
investigators believe the forest fire orginated from this brush 
pile. 

Here is the entire opinion issued by the Prosecuting Attor- 
ney: 

The forest fire of May 8, 1990, which commenced at ap- 
proximately 3:30 o’clock p.m. near Thendara Road in Gray- 
ling Township, Crawford County, Michigan and eventually 
involved over five thousand, four hundred acres of land, the 
destruction of eighty-one domiciles, one hundred, thirteen 
outbuildings and twenty-five motor vehicles, boats and all 
terrain vehicles was caused by an incredibly bizarre set of 
circumstances which are detailed as follows and leads me to 
conclude that there was no criminal violation of P.A. 1969, No. 
329, being the Prevention And Suppression of Forest Fires Act 
as found at MCLA 320.21 et. seq. 

On May 17, 1990, the Michigan Department of Natural 
Resources, Law Enforcement Division, presented my office 
with a report prepared by CO Bruce Patrick, requesting a 
warrant for Gerald Landon Fagan of Thendara Road, Grayling, 
Michigan, charging him with a violation of MCLA 320.25 (b) 
which provides “a person shall not... set fire, or cause, or 
procure the setting on fire of any flammable material on or 
adjacent to Forest Land without taking reasonable precautions, 
both before and after lighting the fire, and at all times thereafter 
to prevent escape thereof or leave the fire before it is extin- 
guished.” 

The 21 page report establishes the following facts: 

1. In early March, 1990, the suspect hired a commercial 
excavator to bulldoze stumps, trees and slash into four separate 
piles on his property located in a line and easterly of his home 
as a result of his efforts to clear his property. 

2, The suspect sought and was granted a buming permit 
from the Department of Natura! Resources on March 16, 1990, 
and burned both the first brush pile or the onc nearest his home 
and the sccond brush pile on that day, there being approxi- 
mately one inch of snow on the ground at that time. 

3. Ithas been established that the suspect had no intention 
of burning the third and fourth brush piles, being further East 
of his home, and had evidenced this intention to neighbors 
stating that he was going to leave them there for rabbit and 
other small game cover. 

4. That the first brush pile burned and then smoldered for 
approximately two weeks and the second brush pile immedi- 
atcly to the East burned itself out in two days to one week after 
being set afire. 

5. Visual inspection of the land showed that bulldozer 
tracks were evident over the entire property and that other than 
several large oak trees, the property appeared to have been 
stripped of all brush and slash. 

6. On April 16, 1990, the #1 brush pile, or the brush pile 
nearest the suspect’s home, rekindled itself and the suspect 
sought and received from the Department of Natural Re- 
sources, a burning permit that day for a “flaming old brush 
pile” and states that after allowing it to burn down again, he 

proceeded to dowse it with water. 

‘7, » The suspect states that he then checked the second brush 
pile to the East of the one which had re-kindled itself, and could 
find no sign of fire, smoke or heat in tnat pile going so far as to 
place his hands down inside the brush pile in an effort to 
determine if there was any indication of smoldering. 

8. Thesuspect then continued tocheck this pile #2 periodi- 
cally for any signs of fire, smoke or heat and finding none, 
continued to pick up his property and hand pile brush on the site 
of the second brush pile. 

' 9. Interviews with neighbors indicate that there had been 
no burning on the subject property since the re-kindling inci- 
dent of April 16, 1990, and that one neighbor was on the day 
of the fire at the back of his own property where he could 
plainly see the suspect’s property and that immediately prior to 
3:30 p.m., there was no one on that property nor was there any 
sign of smoke or fire. Shortly after 3:30 p.m, this same 
neighbor observed that two of the brush piles were burning and 
there was no sign of anyone in the vicinity. 

‘ 40. That approximately 1:30 p.m., being approximately 
two hours prior to ‘the start of the fire, a DNR plane had flown 
over the Thendara Road area and had not noticed any smoke or 
indication of fire at that time. 


Doodles from the Tall Timber 


by Wendall Hoover 


Fire! The mere mention of 
the word can bring shcar ter- 
ror into a person’s heart and 
mind. Too many people in 
this area have had a taste of 
that terrible fright and the 
tearing anguish that goes with 
it, We can, and have, helped 
with moncy and asympathetic 
ear, but the stilling terror can- 
not be quenched so easily, 

Thank heaven we don't give 
up casily, that there is a resil- 
icnce which makes many want 
lo start over again, knowing 
full well that some things lost, 
will never be replaced. Itis a 
good thing that our ancestors 
were cesilicnt too, because 
wildfire has, along with its 


aftermath, been with usa very 
long time in this state, 

In the fall of 1871, fires 
badly damaged Holland and 
Manisice and then, pushed by 
very strong westerly winds, 
coupled with extremely dry 
conditions, burned across the 
state into the city of Port 
Huron. The fire destroyed the 
major portions of 21 countics 
in just two days. That fire 
combined with other fires in 
ihe state consumed 14,000 
square miles of Michigan for- 
est along with towns, and 
numerous lives, during 1871, 
Those fires bumed over the 
equivalent of 24 Crawford 
Countics. 


s March 16th Brush Pile Burn 
@ Re-ignited To Start Forest Fi 


ire 


UNDERGROUND FIRE--DNR i investigators found charred ed) that had sfnldeted sadenoaa 
since March 16. 


11. Interviews with a University of Michigan Fishery Re- 
search Crew, neighbors and a Crawford AuSable School bus 
driver, indicate that with winds blowing out of the South West 
from fifteen to thirty miles an hour, the fire took less than ten 
minutes from the time that smoke and fire were spotted in the 
second brush pile until the flames reached the other brush piles 
and woods to the North and East of the suspect's property and 
was out of control. 

12, The Department of Natural Resources Fire Investiga- 
tion Team has determined that the second brush pile was the 
source of the fire and excavation of thai pile revealed that in 
bulldozing the initial pile together, logs and stumps had been 
covered partially by sand and dirt. Excavation of those stumps 
from beneath the ground reveal that there were a number of 
pieces of charred wood which were extremely hot indicating 
that in fact the fire had smoldered under ground since March 
16, 1990 in much the same way as charcoal is made without 
trace of flame, smoke or heat despite snow storins of one half 
inch or More on the 22nd, 25th, and 30th of March and again 
on several occasions in April. The extremely dry conditions 
and high winds of May 8, 1990 combined to cause this 
“charcoal-like” substance to either re-ignite or ignite combus- 
tible substances in the vicinity which was the cause of the 
eventual forest fire which then bumed Northeasterly from that 


RD AuSable River 


Start of Forest Fire-— 


g 
Steele Residence 


8 Re RN Mi 


Thendara Rd. 


spot. 

I conclude that Gerald Fagan did take responsible precau- 
tions before and after lighting the fire on March 16, 1990 on or 
adjacent to Forest Land as evidenced by the placing of the 
brush piles in the middle ofa field which had been cut over and 
bulldozed clear and his procurement of a burning permit even 
though there was snow on the ground at the time. 

The only issue remaining is as to whether the suspect took 
reasonable precautions at all times thereafter to prevent escape 
of the fire. In that regard, f conclude that with a ime lapse of 
seven to cight weeks since the permitted burning of the number 
2 brush pile (the forest fire’s point of origin) combined with the 
periodic checking of the same, Mr. Fagan had taken such 
reasonable precautions under the circumstanccs to leave a 
reasonable person with the expectation that no fire would occur 
much lessescape from the number 2 brush pile on May 8, 1990. 

Accordingly, I would decline the Department of Natural 
Resources’ request for a criminal misdemeanor warrant. My 
decision would have no impact or effect on any civil liability 
which Mr. Fagan may have incurred as a result of his conduct 
between March 16th and May 8, 1990. 

Date: May 17, 1990 
John B. Huss 
Prosecuting Attorney 


~~ 


K 


