UNIV OF MO LIBRARY 


ee 


The Missouri Department of Natural Resources ts the 
state agency responsible for the wise use of Missouri’s 
natural resources. 


MODOL 
NR. P 


/ f a 
vi po pf - 3 7 } 7 
fA A/H [GY Tf 
MAS; i~_ / tf | 
i j 


. wa famec 
State Park 


UIRAIERANTY NATWRAEGRRA GUIDE 
LIBRARY 


} 


* 
Ae Lowe 


; 


va, $ 


Meramec 
State Park 


TRAIL AND NATURAL AREA GUIDE 


Meramec State Park lies along one of the most scenic stretches of one 
of Missouri’s most beautiful rivers—the Meramec. In the expansive 
regions of the park that lie beyond the principal park facilities, there 
are wonderful opportunities for hikers to explore varied Meramec 
valley landscapes, from rich thick forests to high bluffs, to narrow 
hollows carved by trickling streams. This brochure briefly describes 
some of these lands and the trails that provide access to these areas of 
the park. 


NATURAL HISTORY 


Several hundred million years ago what is now Meramec State Park lay 
beneath a shallow sea. As countless tiny sea creatures died, their shells 
were compressed into layers of flat dolomite rock. Eventually a giant 
thrust of the earth’s crust pushed this rock, the Ozark plateau, out of the 
sea. Rainwater filtered down through this flat plateau, dissolving the 
rock and forming water-filled voids. Streams and rivers eventually 
eroded down to these water-filled voids, and, as the water drained, 
they became air-filled caves. There have been more than 30 caves 
recorded so far in Meramec State Park and more than 4,500 recorded in 
the state. 


The Meramec River and its tributaries have eroded so deeply into the 
land that it is difficult to see the level plain on which they originated. In 
fact, the section of the river that runs through the park is more than 400 
feet lower than the surrounding uplands. 


Due to the thousands of years of erosion, this ancient landscape is now 
a very rugged one and the dissected hills in the park display a variety of 
interesting natural communities. Here you can find where different 
plants and animals make their homes, each filling a specific niche as 
the environment changes from valley floor to ridgetop. These 
adaptations to the environment are remarkably well represented in the 
Meramec Upland Forest Natural Area. You may see a lady slipper 
orchid tucked away on a moist hillside; a rare red-shouldered hawk, 
which is known to nest in undisturbed bottomlands along the 
Meramec River; or a desertlike glade opening on south-facing slopes. 
These are all testimony to the ancient natural cycles that you can learn 
more about as you hike the trails at Meramec State Park. 


THE NATURAL AREA PROGRAM 


Missouri has been blessed with an unusual diversity of native plants, 
animals, and scenic areas. The state has some of the largest springs in 
North America and the greatest number of caves of any state. There are 
tallgrass prairies, deep rich forests, barren glades, and numerous 
crystal-clear streams. All these contribute to an unusually varied, 
beautiful, and interesting natural history that has helped shape 
Missouri’s cultural history. 


As you tour Missouri’s state parks, you will learn about our state’s 
natural and cultural heritage. To ensure that special recognition and 
protection is afforded to some of the significant natural elements, 
certain areas have been designated as Missouri natural areas. Natural 
areas are managed to protect their scientific values. They are formally 
recognized as the least-disturbed and highest-quality biological and 
geological sites across the state. 


You are invited to explore Missouri natural areas as you tour Missouri’s 
state park system. 


MERAMEC UPLAND FOREST NATURAL AREA 


The 461-acre Meramec Upland Forest Natural Area is one of Missouri's 
best examples of a forest community that typically grows on well- 
drained cherty soil formed from dolomite rock. Much of the area is a 
forest dominated by white oak, black oak, and black hickory trees. 
Beneath these grow shade-loving flowering dogwoods and service- 
berries that add a dazzle of white blossoms to the forest in spring. In 
summer and fall, wild turkeys feast on one of the dominant shrubs in 
the forest, the lowbush blueberry. Although these plants characterize 
the typical forest of the natural area, there are also many other 
interesting plant communities. 


On the south side of several ridges, excessively drained rocky slopes 
have led to the development of dolomite glades. On these glades the 
bedrock is at or near the surface and soils, which are very thin, support 
prairie grasses and wildflowers. Rock outcrops are often exposed over 
the surface ofa glade, and persimmons and red cedars are scattered in 
otherwise open areas. In spring, when water is usually most abundant, 
these glades erupt in color from plants like Indian paintbrush, rose 
verbena, and orange puccoon. 


At the base of north-facing hillsides, moisture-loving black walnuts, 
white oak, northern red oak, and basswood trees are common 
members of the dense forest canopy. The moist, rich soils also allow 
for a well-developed understory where paw paw trees, spicebush, and 
flowering dogwood thrive. 


THE TRAILS 


Meramec State Park offers developed camping and day-use areas, 
overnight accommodations, and dining facilities, but most of the 
park’s 6,734 acres are traversed only by trails. These trails can guide you 
to open glades dotted with Indian paintbrush, lush ravines laced with 
walking fern, gold and red hillsides ablaze with fall color, and quiet 
places seldom visited by the majority of the park’s visitors. If you have 
never taken the time to explore the park on foot, why not give it a try?A 
whole new experience is awaiting you. 


The first explorers to these forests were French prospectors. Although 
the French had little success looking for minerals in this area, 
prospectors in the mid-1800s discovered a deposit of copper just west 
of the present natural area. Water power from a spring in the natural 
area was used by the early miners to run a pump that supplied air to 
their smelter furnace. Today, however, nearly all traces of man’s 
activities have been erased by years of forest succession. 


Despite the lack of recent human disturbance in the natural area, 
nature has taken its toll. A ttememdous windstorm struck the area on 
July 2, 1980, with winds in excess of 90 miles per hour. In some places 
more than half of the mature trees were heavily damaged. Although 
some of the majestic trees now lay on their sides, they still contribute to 
the special character of the area by providing shelter to numerous 
types of wildlife. 


Caves also provide shelter for inhabitants of the natural area. Bobcats 
use the smaller caves for dens and some of our rarest bats use the larger 
caves for home. Gray and Indiana bats, which are both endangered 
species, inhabit caves in the natural area. To protect these beneficial 
animals, gates have been constructed over the entrance of two caves. 
One of these caves is closed year-round because of the presence of 
bats, while the other is closed only part of the year. 


NATURAL WONDERS TRAIL - 1.3 MILES 


Natural Wonders Trail is a treasure chest of diversity. Mature forests, 
caves, glades, old fields, and beaver ponds are a few of the reasons 
there is always something exciting to discover along this trail. Each of 
these habitats shelters special groups of plants and animals, which 
indicate the complexity of the natural world. The trail is signed in a 
clockwise direction with red arrows. 


BLUFF VIEW TRAIL - 1.5 MILES 


Bluff View Trail is a loop trail with access points at the picnic area, the 
lodge area, and the southern end of the campground. This very 
popular trail provides outstanding views atop bluffs overlooking the 
Meramec River. Two trail shelters constructed during the 1930s by the 
Civilian Conservation Corps are located along this trail. The trail is of 
moderate difficulty and designed for hiking use only. It is signed with 
blue arrows in a clockwise direction. 


WALKING FERN TRAIL - .5 MILE 


The trail’s namesake is a large fern-covered boulder located near the 
midpoint of the trail. Although the trail is the shortest in the park, it is 
also one of the most interesting. This is largely due to the trail’s sharp 
change in elevation that allows you to pass through several major plant 
communities. The trail begins and ends near the entrance of Fisher 
Cave, which is a nice cool place to visit after a summer hike. Walking 


THE ETHICS OF GOOD TRAIL USE 


® Carry out what you carry in. If the trail users before you have not done 
this, you can help by removing their trash, too. 


@ Keep your group small. Groups of more than 10 persons usually 
damage the environment. 


@ Dispose of human waste properly. Fortunately, the top six or eight 
inches of soil provide a system of biologic disposers that decompose 
organic material. Keeping this in mind, hikers should select a spot at 
least 100 feet from any open water; dig a small hole no deeper than six 
or eight inches; after use, fill the hole with loose soil and tramp in the 
sod; nature will do the rest. 


@® Stay on the trail. Do not take shortcuts. The trail has been laid out to 
minimize destruction of surrounding vegetation and to prevent 


Fern Trail is designated for hiking use only. It is signed with green cee 
arrows in a counterclockwise direction. 
DEER HOLLOW TRAIL - 1.8 MILES SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS 


@® When hiking into remote areas of the park, inform someone of your 


Deer Hollow Trail is a point-to-point hiking trail that leads from the 
intended route and anticipated time of return. 


lodge area to Fisher Cave. Cabin guests may want to consider using this 
trail as an alternative to driving to Fisher Cave. Deer Hollow Trail was 
constructed by the Civilian Conservation Corps and was one of the 
park’s original trails. The trail is marked with yellow arrows. 


WILDERNESS TRAIL - 6 MILES 


Wilderness Trail is a loop trail that begins near the cabin area. It isa trail 
of moderate difficulty, but due to its length should not be attempted by 
beginning hikers unless accompanied by someone more experienced. 
This trail enters the southwest corner of Meramec Upland Forest 
Natural Area and can be used as access for exploring this area. This trail 
in the future will be opened to backpacking, but at the present time it is 
only open to hikers. The trail is signed ina counterclockwise direction 
with red arrows. 


RIVER TRAIL - .8 MILE 


River trail is a loop trail that begins at the southern end of the 
campground. Part of this trail winds along the western bank of the 
Meramec River. At its midpoint, the trail passes through a trail shelter 
built by the Civilian Conservation Corps. At this location, hikers can 
gain access to the scenic Bluff View Trail. River Trail is the easiest trail 
in the park to hike. It is signed in a counterclockwise direction with 
yellow arrows. 


@ If it becomes necessary to drink water from streams or springs, it 
should always be purified by boiling or chemical treatment. Many 
streams and springs contain high levels of bacteria. 


If you have any questions concerning the trails or natural areas at 
Meramec State Park, please write the park superintendent or naturalist 
at Route 4, Box 4, Sullivan, MO 63080, or call (314) 468-6072. 


For information on the more than 300 miles of trail and 27 natural areas 
in other state parks, contact the Missouri Department of Natural 
Resources, P.O. Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102, or call 
1-800-334-6946. 


LEGEND 


TRAILS 
WILDERNESS TRAIL 6. MILES 
DEER HOLLOW TRAIL —.— YELLOW | __s 1.8 MILES 
BLUFF VIEW TRAIL een emia insane, “tS PAILES 
WALKING FERN TRAIL stntietncienina 2 WLES 
RIVER TRAIL ELLOW 


Y 
NATURAL WONDERS TRAIL —..—.. ek cette 1.3 MILES 


FRANKLIN CO 


HAMILTON SPRING 


