NEWS FOR THE PRESERVATION COMMUNITY 


issues 


MISSOURI vitor 


* Vol. 1, No. 4 * 


Fairgrounds Nominated for National Register 


215-acre section of the Missouri State 

Fairgrounds at Sedalia, with buildings 
dating as far back as the first fair in 1901, 
has been nominated for listing in the Na- 
tional Register of Historic Places. 

The Missouri State Fairgrounds Historic 
District contains a fine collection of early 
20th century fair and exposition-type build- 
ings which are significant for their architec- 
ture, as well as in the areas of agriculture, 
social history and entertainment/recreation. 

The nomination, prepared under a His- 
toric Preservation Fund grant to the Show- 
Me Regional Planning Commission, iden- 
tifies 66 contributing buildings, sites, struc- 
tures and objects, anda slightly larger num- 
ber of noncontributing properties. 

Most, perhaps all, district buildings con- 
structed through 1926 were designed by 
Sedalia architect Thomas W. Bast. Bast’s 
blueprints often featured Missionesque 
parapets, comer towers and other exuber- 
ant details which contributed to a festive 
atmosphere. Among Bast's clients was John 
Homer Bothwell, whose stone mansion 
atop a tower ridge north of the city is the 
centerpiece of Bothwell State Park. 

Missouri was a relative latecomer on the 
state fair circuit, although lesser fairs were 
common during the decades following the 
Civil War as agriculture and livestock hus- 
bandry expanded. Beginning in 1866, St. 
Louis hosted agricultural fairs which drew 
especially large crowds. But many farmers 
wanted an official “state” fair where their 
achievements could be recognized, 
preferably in a rural setting. Finally, in 
1899, the 40th General Assembly voted to 
establish a Missouri State Fair at a site to 
be determined. 

Competition was keen. There were five 
finalists in addition to Sedalia: Centralia, 
Chillicothe, Marshall, Mexico, and Mober- 
ly. While any of these cities might have 
been a good choice, Sedalia had the largest 
population and its proposal was the most 


FILE PHOTO 


12 Gee ate 


impressive. On June 3, 1899, delegations 
traveled to Jefferson City to make their 
final presentations. Ten ballots later, the 
State Board of Agriculture made Sedalia 
the “State Fair City.” 

Governor Lon V. Stephens, in explain- 
ing the selection, noted that Sedalia was 
served by two steam railroads and an 
electric street car company “running 
directly into the grounds, assuring ample 
facilities for handling an immense number 
of visitors . . . and freight; a guarantee 
secured by bond that water mains and 
electric wires for light and power would be 
extended into the grounds; and by the 
beauty and adaptability of the (160-acre) 
tract offered for Fair purposes.” 

Only a few wooden speed horse barns 
east of the mile racetrack survive from the 
first fair, in 1901. No brick buildings were 
erected until 1903, but the three exposition 
halls built that year (as the Agriculture 
Building, Horticulture Building and 
Poultry Building) survive as the Commer- 
cial Building, Varied Industries Building 
and FFA Building. Other early brick build- 
ings include most of the animal barns, the 
Womans Building and the Coliseum. 

Later-built resources include the art 


Live Stock Pavilion dcavily after construction. 


deco/art moderne main entrance (con- 
structed in 1939) plus various properties 
erected under 1930s Works Progress Ad- 
ministration projects on the fairgrounds. 

Of special interest are the Coliseum, a 
spectacular arcaded pavilion of three 
stories built in 1905-06, and the Womans 
Building, aca 1910 Georgian Revival man- 
sion recently leased by the Missouri 
Department of Natural Resources for ex- 
hibits, meetings, and educational activities. 

The Missouri State Fairgrounds, main- 
tained by the Missouri Department of 
Agriculture, is open to the public year 
round. Visitors are welcome. ~ Roger 
Maserang 


Inside 
Y\, HPP Updates 


Archaeology Profiles 
Historic Architecture 
CAP Grants 


July/August 1991 


Historic 
Preservation 
Program 


his has been a suc- 

cessful year for the 
passage of Missouri 
legislation concerning 
historic preservation. 
Three bills have passed the House and 
Senate; one of those has already been 
signed by the Governor. 

House Bill 613, sponsored by long-time 
friend of preservation the late Representa- 
tive Martha Jarman, was signed by Gover- 
nor Ashcroft on May 9. The bill allows 
transfer of the historic Warden's Residence 
at the Missouri State Penitentiary in Jeffer- 
son City to the Department of Natural Re- 
sources for preservation under our Historic 
Preservation Revolving Fund. 

Awaiting signature is Senator Henry 
Panethiere’s Senate Bill 75, which contains 
provisions for the protection of abandoned 
shipwrecks. The bill requires a permit for 
the excavation of historic vessels, requires 
that at least 50 percent of recovered ar- 


» tifacts be offered to Missouri institutions, 


and imposes penalties for violations. 

Also awaiting signature is Senate Bill 
124, a cornerstone bill for the Missouri 
preservation effort, which was introduced 
by Senator Harry Wiggins. It confirms the 
Historic Preservation Program (HPP), Mis- 
souri Department of Natural Resources, as 
the official State Historic Preservation Of- 
fice and provides legislative authority for 
the responsibilities of the HPP. The bill 
also provides much-needed clarification of 
the role and authority of local government 
efforts, empowering both municipalities 
and counties to carry out fundamental 
preservation activities. 

The support of the legislature in passing 


PHOTO BARBARA COCHRAN 


UPDATES 


these three key bills reflects a growing 
awareness of historic preservation issues in 
Missouri. — Claire Blackwell 


TY native Americ- 
ad ans who had rested 
peacefully in a central 
Missouri burial mound 
for more than 1,400 
years were recently disturbed by the ad- 
vance of modern civilization. 

Senior archaeologist Michael Weichman 
was notified of the disturbance by a Colum- 
bia developer who discovered the Late 
Woodland (600-900 A.D.) burial mound 
while surveying streets for a new sub- 
division. Work in the immediate area was 
halted until archaeological excavations 
were completed this spring. 

The discovery consisted of a rectangular 
crypt, six feet wide by eight feet long by 
three feet deep, constructed of stacked 
limestone slab rock and containing the 
human remains of a female 25-30 years of 
age and a child under four. One ariifact, a 
biface (stone tool), was found near the knee 
of the female. 

The burials were sited above evidence 
of a much earlier Late Archaic (3,000- 
1,000 B.C.) occupation. Several projectile 
points from the period were found below 
the burials. In addition, scattered human 
remains were found in the backfill outside 
the crypt which suggests the disturbance of 
an even earlier burial. 

The remains are currently undergoing 
scientific analysis. They will then be 
released to native Americans for ap- 
propriate reburial as required by state law. 


Governor John Ashcroft, seated center, signing House Bill 613. Representative Martha 


Jarman is seated right . 


For more information about the Un- 
marked Human Burial Sites Law or to report 
a discovery, call (314) 751-7958 or write 
Michael Weichman, Senior Archaeologist. — 
Karen Grace 


he Historic Preser- 

vation Revolving 
Fund (HPRF) has nearly 
completed negotiations 
for the acquisition of two 
more endangered historic properties. 

The most recent involved the impending 
transfer of ownership of the Warden‘s 
Residence in Jefferson City from the Mis- 
souri Department of Corrections to the 
HPRF via House Bill 613, signed by 
Governor Ashcroft on May 9. 

This magnificent Queen Anne free clas- 
sic style house remains largely unchanged 
from its original appearance (see Missouri 
Architecture at right). A sweeping staircase 
with a stained glass window above the 
landing, many large windows and curving 
windowseats are some of the many interior 
features. Outside, the turret, large porches, 
and wrought iron perimeter fence are likely 
to catch your attention as the most striking 
elements. 

While the law will not take effect until 
August, preparations are underway to mar- 
ket the home to a preservation-minded 
buyer. An open house is planned to allow 
the public to view this unique home before 
it returns to private ownership. The poten- 
tial for commercial use of this property as 
a bed and breakfast or as offices would 
allow some public access after the sale. As 
always, once the property is sold, preserva- 
tion covenants will be attached to the deed 
to ensure the property's protection in per- 
petuity. 

In a second transaction, the Wheeling 
Methodist Church has been donated to the 
fund by the Missouri West Conference of 
the Methodist Church Inc. to ensure its 
preservation. This ca 1874 property fea- 
tures lovely Gothic-arched stained glass 
windows and a bell tower with the bell 
intact. Declining membership in recent 
years caused the church to be closed and 
threatened with demolition. The revolving 
fund is in the process of having the church 
appraised and will then seek a buyer for the 
property. Preservation covenants will be 
used to protect its historic character, while 
allowing for rehabilitation and reuse. 

For more information about the HPRF 
or available properties, call (314) 751-5373 
or write Jane Beetem, Revolving Fund 
Coordinator. — Jane Beetem 


Archaeology 
PROFILES 


A study of some unusual historical ar- 
chaeological artifacts recovered from 
the Current River near Doniphan has re- 
cently been completed. Dr. James E. Price 
of the University of Missouri-Columbia, 
Department of Anthropology, conducted 
the study of fourteen log raft steering sweep 
poles found and recovered by Ray Joe 
Hastings, an amateur archaeologist and 
avid historian from Doniphan. 

The study, funded by the National Park 
Service, involved measuring and photo- 
graphing the specimens and preparation of 
a report describing each and the role they 
played in the cultural and technological 
history of the southeastern Missouri Ozarks 
region. 


MISSOURIS > 


= = -APPROX: 26 FEET - 


PIVOT HOLE 


BLADE 


me, 
4 


Illustration of archaeological raft sweep recovered from the Current River. 


The specimens represent rather massive 
(25-36 feet long) steering devices which 
were attached to upright pivot posts on the 
front end of log or railroad tie rafts. These 
were floated down the Current River for 
processing and sale to various lumber com- 
panies in Doniphan ca 1880-1930. Rafts 
were usually 700 to 800 feet in length, 
consisting of logs or ties held together with 
“chain dogs” and coupling poles. 

A steering oar or sweep was used to 


HISTORIC ARCHITECTURE aes 


Characteristics: 


— 2 . — 


FILE PROTO 


2.3 78 


RTA vy tone 
prt rered iss ifbeens 


Queen Anne Free Classic Houses 1880-1910 


« Usually large scale, two to three stories. 

¢ Irregular shape due to various projecting parts which may include towers, turrets, 
projecting: bays and pavilions, oriels, porches, and encircling verandas. 

* A variety of wall textures (materials) often used in combination. 

* Multi-gabled roof or hipped roof with lower cross gables. 

* Irregular fenestration; stained glass in door and window transoms and accent 
windows is typical; most windows are one-over-one. 

¢ Little or no spindlework, “gingerbread.” 

* Liberal use of classical details characterizes the free classic subtype and may 

include classical columns and pilasters, palladian, half-round, and cameo win- 

dows; dentils and ornamental moldings - swags, scrolls, florals, egg and dart, etc. 


: . _ 


7 “ah ae ie Bas RN & aS 
4 Oe de eh = 9 - 


ss 2 ~ 
a wirpens RESIDENCE, MISSOURI STATE PEN 


EPPERSON CITY, MO 
Historic Photo ca 1900 


maneuver the front end of a rapidly moving 
raft through the steep bends in the river. 
The “sweep man” was at the mercy of the 
raft’s speed in the current and had to con- 
stantly ply the sweep to keep the front of 
the raft away from the river bank, rootwads, 
snags, and bluffs. Rafters called “bag men” 
were stationed along the length of a raft 
with pike poles to keep the raft shoved 
away from obstacles. Toward the rear of the 
raft, “snub men” inserted strong hickory 
poles vertically between the logs and 
dragged their ends of the river bottom to 
slow the rear of the raft, preventing the 
front of the raft from diving to the bottom. 

There are only a few men alive who 
actually rode the rafts down the Current 
River but a rich legacy remains along the 
river in the form of archaeological sites as 
well as colorful place names such as “Log 
Yard”, “Pulltite”, “Pig Ankle”, “Harry's 
Root”, and “Snaggy Bend.” 

All 14 sweep specimens recovered by 
Mr. Hastings had their blades removed 
either by driving or cutting out the retaining 
pegs. Apparently, at the end of a raft jour- 
ney, the blades were removed from the 
sweep poles and taken back up river to be 
remounted on new poles and used again for 
another descent. 

Results of the study of these significant 
wooden artifacts, which were fortuitously 
preserved, will be used to interpret the com- 
plete raft sweep specimen in possession of 
the National Park Service, Ozark National 
Scenic Riverways, which is exhibited at 
Alley Spring in Shannon County. Another 
specimen, with a reconstructed blade, is on 
public exhibit at the Current River Heritage 
Museum in Doniphan. — James Price 


Preservation Issues is funded by a grant from 
the National Park Service, U.S. Department of the 
Interior. Grant awards do not imply an endorse- 
ment of contents by the grantor. Federal laws 
prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, 


religion, sex, age, handicap or ethnicity. For more 
information, write to the Office of Equal Oppor- 
tunity, U.S. Department of the Interior, 
Washington, DC 20240. 
Editor: Karen Grace 
Designer: Musick & Co. 


1992 CAP Grants 
Available Dates to Remember 


The National Institute for the Conserva- 
tion of Cultural Property has announced the President’s Historic Preservation Awards and National Historic Preservation 
availability of grants for the Conservation Awards nomination deadline July 31. Call Ann Post, Advisory Council on 
Assessment Program (CAP). Historic Preservation (202) 786-0503 for entry forms or more information. 

Funded by the Institute of Museum Ser- 
vices, CAP provides funds for an inde- 
pendent, professional conservation assess- 
ment of a museum’s collections and en- Great American Home Awards nomination deadline August 30. Awards are 
vironmental conditions and, where ap- open to homeowners and/or professionals for rehabilitation projects com- 
propriate, historic structures. The assessor's pleted after July 1986. Call Maureen McKasy-Donlin, National Trust for 
resulting report will identify conservation. Historic Preservation (202) 673-4283 for entry forms or more information. 


priorities to assist the museum in develop- ‘ : 
Second Annual Route 66 Motor Tour St. Louis to Joplin September 21-22. 


ing a long-term plan for collections care 5 re : 
and management. For more information call Jim Powell (314) 539-5500. 


Missouri Advisory Council on Historic Preservation Meeting August 9, 
Jefferson City. For more information call (314) 751-5365. 


CAP grants are one-time awards that The 45th National Preservation Conference October 16-20, San Francisco. 
support a two-day site visit by a conserva- For information contact Preservation Conferences at the National Trust 
tion professional. For museums located in 1 (800) YES-NTHP. 


historic structures, the grants will also sup- 
port the on-site participation of an architec- 
tural assessor. 

The CAP program is first-come, first- 
served; the final date for application receipt 
is Dec. 6, 1991. To request an application 
or receive further information, contact im- 
mediately: 


American Society of Landscape Architects Annual Meeting October 19-22, 
Kansas City, celebrates the 100th anniversary of Kansas City’s parks 
system. For information call Katherine McKnight (816) 842-2550. A one- 
day pre-session on the preservation of historic landscapes is scheduled for 
October 18. Call Janet Rowson (202) 686-1001. 


National Institute for the 


Conservation of Cultural Propert _STATE HISTORIC ____ ____NATIONAL REGISTER _ 
329K Sie. NW PRESERVATION __ “OF HISTORIC PLACES _ 
a ; OFFICERS 1966-1991 
Suite 403 Se 
Washington, DC 20007 
(202) 625-1495. 


PRESORTED 
frredoruntion 
FIRST CLASS 


Sp 
ESS ues U's POSTAGE 
a 


PAID 


Jefierson City, MO 65102 
Permit No. 82 


Missouri Department of Natural Resources 
Historic Preservation Program 

P.O. Box 176 

Jefferson City, MO 65102 


ae 
ed 
uw 
RECYCLED PAPER 


