I N 


N I 


1992 


A STEP  AWAY 


World  Events  Leave  Footprints  on 

Society 


Another  year  of  world  changing  events  can 
be  tacked  on  to  next  year’s  history  books. 
Boris  Yeltsin  and  Mikhail  Gorbachev  fought 
numerous  political  battles  to  claim  the  pres- 
idency of  the  USSR.  Unfortunately,  the  win- 
ner received  a quickly  dissolving  state.  Sud 
dam  Hussein  continued  to  create  turmoil  in 
the  mideast  while  General  H.  Norman 
Schwarzkopfs  popularity  skyrocketed  past 
George  Bush's  falling  “approval"  ratings. 


The  Minnesota  Twins  beat  the  Atlanta 
Braves  in  the  1991  World  Series. 


On  July  11,  1991,  the  moon  slipped  over  the 
sun  turning  day  into  night. 


Over  730  oil  wells  were  damaged  or  set  ablaze  during  the  Iraqi  occupation  of  Kuwait. 
A woman  prays  as  the  land  behind  her  goes  up  in  flames. 


President  Bush  and  former  Presidents  Carter,  Ford,  and  Nixon  joined  former  President 
Ronald  Reagan  in  opening  his  presidential  library. 


2 World  Events 


About  2 million  Iraqi  Kurds  and  other  minorities  fled  north  in  April  1991  to  the  Turkish  General  H.  Norman  Schwarzkopf  wows  the 
border  when  the  rebels  failed  to  oust  President  Saddam  Hussein.  crowd  during  Operation  Welcome  Home. 


Tanks  parked  in  front  of  St.  Basil’s  Cathedral  and  elsewhere  on 
the  Red  Square  during  the  Soviet  military  coup  in  Moscow. 


Eight  humans  and  thousands  of  species  of  plants  and  animals  will 
spend  two  years  in  a sealed  structure  called  Biosphere  2. 


Anita  Hill  loses  sexual  harassment  charge 
against  Clarence  Thomas. 


Mikhail  Gorbachev  is  released  from  house 
arrest  only  to  be  removed  from  office. 


Russian  President  Boris  Yeltsin  celebrates 
end  of  coup  attempt. 


World  Events  3 


Students  Outside 


Center  left:  Andy  Martin  says,  “May  I help  you?”  Center  right:  Jason 
Drake  smiles  as  he  helps  customers  at  Wal-Mart.  Lower  left:  A lucky 
customer  benefits  from  the  film  knowledge  of  Brian  Patterson  at  C 
& M Video.  Lower  right:  Debbie  Willis  makes  change  while  working 
at  The  Prescription  Shoppe. 


Work  outside  of  school  is  an  integral  part  of  many 
students’  lives.  Fast  food  restaurants  are  not  the 
only  places  that  hire  teenagers.  Some  high  school 
students  find  jobs  at  department  stores,  grocery 
stores,  filling  stations,  and  car  washes. 

While  shopping  or  running  other  errands  in  Clin- 
ton, one  is  very  likely  to  run  into  students  working 


of  School 


at  after-school  jobs.  Many  students  at  Clinton  High 
not  only  have  the  duty  of  getting  their  homework 
done,  but  they  are  also  responsible  for  their  jobs. 
Students  who  are  capable  of  holding  an  after-school 
job  and  keeping  up  with  their  grades  deserve  much 
praise. 


Center  left:  Andrea  Glenn,  Shari  Brinkley,  and  David  Huffman  are 
happy  to  be  helpful  at  KFC.  Center  right:  Debbie  Scolcs  welcomes 
you  to  Hardee’s.  Lower  right:  Eric  Sessions  tries  not  to  smash  the 
bread  while  packing  groceries  at  IGA. 


A Step  On  the  Wild  Side  . . . 


The  Fry  Guys  now  attend  Clinton  High  School. 


The  ’G’-rated  version  of  the  Obsession  perfume  ad. 


Above:  Halloween  was  accompanied  by  snow  this 
year  despite  the  weather  reports.  Upper  right:  “I 
told  you  Adam  Nagy  did  it,”  says  Mrs.  Laffey,  while 
Mr.  Knutson  agrees.  Lower  right:  The  bird’s  eye 
view  on  Cell  Block  ’D.’ 


6 Wild  Side 


Clear  the  runway  for  Brad  Cutright’s  maiden  voyage! 


Brandy  Kress’s  true  feelings  on  school  as- 
semblies are  finally  known. 


Wild  Side  7 


Parents  Get  Involved 


Moms  and  Dads  of  the  cast  of  “Wiley  & the  Hairy  Man"  participate  in  parents’  night.  This  included  a mock  audition  containing  many 
different  games  and  activities  along  with  an  assortment  of  several  desserts. 


Parental  involvement  at  CCHS  is  a crucial  part 
of  sports,  clubs,  plays,  and  various  other  organi- 
zations and  activities.  There  are  groups  that  the  par- 
ents take  part  in:  the  1 2th  Man  Club  and  the  Booster 
Club.  In  theater,  there  are  many  parents  who  find 
time  in  their  busy  schedules  to  lend  their  handiwork 
to  the  sets,  costuming,  make-up,  hairdressing,  and 
any  other  area  where  they  are  needed.  In  most  cases, 
the  parents’  efforts  go  unnoticed,  but  they  never 
complain  about  not  getting  recognition. 


Adam  Long’s  mother  cheers  for  the  Maroons  as  she  watches  her  son  assist  Pam  Graves  participates  in  the  parents’  night 
the  football  team  to  another  victory.  for  “Wiley.” 

Mike  and  Carol  Hager  let  their  frustrations  show  when  Stephanie’s  working  with  Parental  support  is  shown  by  the  many  balloons 
the  cast  and  crew  of  “Wiley.”  and  flowers  in  the  office. 


Trends  Mark 
Students 

The  students  of  Clinton  High  School  are  known  for 
trying  to  keep  up  with  the  times  by  wearing  fashionable 
clothing.  While  walking  down  the  hall,  one  can  usually 
see  outfits  that  have  graced  the  pages  of  COSMO  and 
GQ.  Even  the  guys  like  to  wear  stylish  clothes,  some- 
times even  more  so  than  the  girls.  Whatever  the  gender 
of  the  person,  clothes  and  fads  are  an  important  part 
of  a high  school  student’s  life. 


Mm  I * f 


;•  i*  v \ ; 


< v 


k 


Athletic  logos  were  a popular  item  this  year. 


Ribbed  fabric  was  used  for  everything  from  shirts  to  skirts  and 
stretch  pants. 


Jackets  with  team  logos  were  eagerly  bought,  regardless  of  the 
somewhat  steep  prices. 


10 


Fads  are  a large  part  of  our  world. 
Guess  was  still  in.  Esprit  apparel  hit 
it  big  this  year,  and  B.U.M.  clothes 
quickly  gained  popularity.  Girls 
found  Esprit  a satisfactory  name, 
and  Bugle  Boy  was  popular  with  the 
guys.  Any  clothing  that  advertised 
athletic  equipment  quickly  became 
sought  after.  Concert  t-shirts  were 
also  a regular  sight.  Music  stars  like 
Michael  Jackson  and  Dire  Straits 
were  still  going  strong.  Elton  John 
and  George  Michael  teamed  up  this 
year  to  cut  a #1  song,  “Don’t  Let 
the  Sun  Go  Down  on  Me.”  Heavy 
metal  bands  such  as  Mctallica,  Mc- 
gadeath,  and  Anthrax  were  a stu- 
dent body  favorite,  as  well  as  coun- 
try singers  Garth  Brooks  and  Tris- 
ha Yearwood.  Individuality  be- 
came more  popular  with  musicians 
and  their  appearances.  For  exam- 
ple, Sinead  O’Conner  and  Right 
Said  Fred  promoted  BALDNESS! 
Queen  made  a surprising  comeback 
from  the  late  70’s  with  the  single 
“Bohemian  Rhapsody”  from  the 
motion  picture  soundtrack 
“Wayne’s  World.”  Other  movies 
that  really  hit  it  big  this  year  were 
the  award  winning  “Silence  of  the 
Lambs,”  “Beauty  and  the  Beast,” 
and  “Problem  Child  II.”  Disney 
made  yet  another  comeback  with 
the  musical,  “Newsies.” 


Esprit  remained  a sought  after  name. 


Ties  were  still  popular  among  the  administration. 


Students  made  a statement 
with  environmental  clothes. 


Guess  was  as  popular  as 
ever. 


11 


CZM  i mto  n 

■— list 


Outside  of  extra-cumcular  activities,  CCHS’s  students  get  many 
chances  to  choose  what  they  want  to  do  during  regular  school  hours. 
This  year  PE  classes  were  given  the  opportunity  to  rollerskate.  Dur- 
ing the  two  half  days  of  standardized  testing  in  the  second  semester, 
students  were  given  a break  during  their  examination. 


Kristen  Tilley  and  Amy  Mathias  skate  after  Grease  practice. 


Denny  Scogin  and  Karen  Cameron  dance. 


Jason  Stith  squints  while  Courtney  Bock  and  Laura  Trotter  hold  him  back. 


Jenny  Kuntz  is  the  student  teacher  for  the  day. 


12  Student  Life 


Josh  Decker  explains  the  finer  aspects  of  literature. 


Student  Life  13 


tudent  Life 


The  students  at  CCHS  participate  in  the  many  things  that  the  school 
has  to  offer.  We  dedicate  these  pages  to  these  students.  In  these  photos, 
we  have  captured  small  parts  of  this  excitement  while  they  cheer  on  teams, 
perform,  or  even  stand  around.  These  pages  show  that,  even  though  these 
students  have  very  busy  lifestyles,  they  are  willing  to  give  up  their  free 
time  to  support  our  school.  Student  life,  busy  or  not,  reflects  a feeling  of 
togetherness. 


Gina  Alsup  happily  displays  her  school  spir- 
it while  practicing  for  Flag  Corps.  Mark  Po- 
len  struts  his  stuff.  Brad  Gordon,  Brian  Pat- 
terson, Chastity  Turney,  Jennifer  Schottel, 
Melanie  Wilson,  Jamie  Torbert,  and  Tricia 
Tuggle  support  the  Maroons.  Sarah  Bloch 
loves  school. 


14  Student  Life 


Kristi  Helton,  Nikki  Karr,  Lisa  Goodwin,  Jennifer  Schottel,  Jamie 
Torbert,  and  Tricia  Tuggle  make  a “heat  huddle.”  Gina  Alsup  and 
Jason  Wrage  have  a great  time  square  dancing. 


CCHS  students  show  their 
spirit  through  everyday  life. 
We’ve  had  fun  monitoring 
student  life  throughout  this 
year.  Stepping  down  . . . 


Shane  VanFossan  focuses 
on  playing  in  the  Pep  Band. 


Todd  Norrington  and  Brant 
Obermeyer  are  insepara- 
ble. 


Darcie  Webb  tries  to  avoid 
the  camera’s  eye. 


Student  Life  15 


A Step 


Compute  this  one,  sucker! 


Beyond  the  Norm 


Sisters  Rebecca  and  Sarah  Bloch  assist  Mrs.  Jones  with  her  roller  skating 
technique. 


Mrs.  Wunderlich’s  sophomore  English  class  gets  ready  for  the  lineup. 


Tasha  Walston  seems  thrilled  to  be  taking  the  CTBS  test. 


16  Beyond  the  Norm 


More  Trends  at  CCHS 


Locker  decorations  often  depict  pictures  of  actors 
and  actresses. 


Former  CCHS  student,  Brandon  Alcorn,  displays  his  Metallica  shirt. 


Kristi  Helton,  Denise  Korneman,  and  Cathy  Trago  symbolize  their  P°wers  models  one  ot  the  stylish 


affection  for  their  boyfriends. 


letterman  jackets  often  seen  in  the  halls. 


Tequila  Burge 
Nikolai  Jones 
Shari  Nixon 
Bradley  Earl 
Beth  Maxwell 
Jeffrey  Metz 


Wendy  Rossio 
Clint  Seaman 
Vanessa  Stephenson 
Jason  McKinzey 
Lynette  Gibson 
Ryan  Black 


Shallon  Gyuran 
Gregory  Chick 
Camie  Wilson 
Edward  Kivlehan 
Beverly  Clymer 
Matthew  Goddard 


Neha  Patel 
Gregory  Brannan 
Jennifer  Andrew 
Michael  Chambers 
Jamie  Devore 
David  Lemmel 


Joanna  Latham 
Joseph  Harris 
Amy  Puckett 
Jared  Butler 
Adrienne  Kielar 
Eric  Young 


A 


* N 


* \jpf 


Heather  Wise 
Lance  Taylor 
April  Davis 
Ryan  Taylor 
Angela  Newberry 
Ryan  Jent 


Jamie  Hoffman 
Justin  Hackett 
Nicole  Cox 
Aaron  Rasor 
Amanda  Spenser 
Ross  Graber 


Karl  Thorpe 
Tracey  Smith 
Jacob  Tyler 
Patricia  Peppers 
James  Boysen 
Marcy  Madix 


Dustin  Ridenour 
Sonia  Perez 
Joshua  Deerwester 
Andrea  Sams 
Adam  Blue 
Sarah  Bloch 


Brian  Ballenger 
Melody  Alexander 
Jeffrey  Brokish 
Tracy  Chrispen 
Ryan  Connelly 
Chastity  Turney 


Christopher  Martin 
Tiffany  Brown 
Brian  Molitoris 
Cassandra  Roberts 
Michael  Todd 
Hardwick 
Amy  Sessions 


Joseph  Adams 
Kimberly  Evans 
Paul  Briggs 
Angela  Monts 
Christopher 
Sim  merman 
Heather  Shonk 


David  Killian 
Sondra  Crutcher 
Craig  Landstrom 
Amy  Fatheree 
Jason  Moore 
Amanda  Walston 


J.  Shane  Van  Fossan 
Paula  Conover 
Travis  Peck 
Jason  Cornell 
Sara  Davenport 


William  Smart 
Matthew  Polen 
Carla  Hoke 
Jacqueline  Taylor 
Paul  Finch 
Brently  Cooper 


Brooke  Lemmel 
Marci  Donovan 
Joshua  Weiss 
Brian  Doggett 
Nathan  Wheeler 
Christopher  Brady 


Kathryn  May 
Betsy  Cooper 
Tyler  Rogers 
Karle  Koritz 
Kristy  Evans 
Belinda  Wilson 


Edward  Brady 
Erik  Danison 
Andrew  Stephenson 
Donnie  Gillespey 
Stacey  Douglas 
Shelley  Shepherd 


Judson  Carter 
John  Austin 
Ken  Sowers 
Jamie  Hardwick 
J era  mi  Sugg 
Johnney  Lowe 


James  Queer  II 
Randy  Bateson 
Heather  Anderson 
Sheila  Russell 
David  Delmonico 
Samuel  Arnold 


Stephanie  Beck 
Sara  Bateson 
Robert  Woollen 
Andrew  Taylor 
Ross  Wantland 
John  Fenton 


Justin  Webb 


Joshua  Morris 
Matthew  Tilley 
Sean  Kelly 
Sara  Martin 
Amy  Johnson 
Christine  Hemn 


Jeffrey  Wrage 
Brooke  Bostwick 
Joshua  Fort 
William  Huffman 


Wow!  It  was  tough  finding  the  way  this  first  year! 
The  freshmen  may  have  gotten  lost  a few  times— 
especially  trying  to  figure  out  semester  exams!  And 
oh  those  schedule  changes!  Thank  goodness  for  guid- 
ance counselors  that  helped  with  the  credit  stuff. 

The  sponsors  for  the  freshmen  are  Marilee  Jakobitz 
& Jan  Hogan.  CCHS  freshmen  won  FIRST  PLACE 
in  the  Homecoming  Parade  Float  Contest!  Thanks  go 
to  a lot  of  loving  parents  who  helped.  The  sponsor 
became  ill  when  she  realized  what  she  had  done  by 
becoming  sponsor.  But  with  the  help  of  Mrs.  Arnold 
(who  sponsored  another  class  also)  and  Cathy  Weiss, 
things  got  done  AND  “SKIN  THE  REDSKINS! 
(What  a theme!  a Nik  Jones’  original!)  won  first  prize! 

The  freshmen  also  won  the  Canned  Food  Drive! 
With  funds  from  their  “prizes”  and  the  concession 
stand  in  February,  they  didn’t  have  anymore  fund- 
raisers. 

The  officers  were  president,  David  Lemmel;  vice- 
president,  Christine  Herrin;  secretary,  Camie  Wilson; 
and  treasurer.  Chastity  Turner. 

Well,  ’92-’92  was  NOT  a good  year — TOO  much 
too  learn— classes  TOO  hard — BUT  it  wasn't  really 
a bad  year  either. 


Kim  Tuggle  practices  for  flag  corps 

FRESHMEN  WOW! 


Front  Row:  Darcie  Webb,  Emily  Conners,  Jenny  Moore,  and  Denise  Korneman.  Row  2:  Joe  Utter,  Thai  Son  Pham,  Jared  Anderson, 
Bev  Nannini,  and  Mr.  White.  Row  3:  JefT  Brokish,  Chris  Hammer,  Jared  Callison,  Richard  Tennison,  and  Jason  Wrage. 


J.E.T.S. 

The  JETS  team  placed  eighth  in  state  out  of  500 
schools.  The  members  of  the  team,  sponsored  by  Joel 
White,  were  Jared  Andersop,  Jeffrey  Brokish,  Jared 
Callison,  Emily  Conners,  Chris  Hammer,  Denise 
Korneman,  Jenny  Moore,  Bev  Nannini,  Thai  Son 
Pham,  Richard  Tennison,  Joe  Utter,  Darcie  Webb,  and 
Jason  Wrage.  Individual  winners  included  Jared  An- 
derson (2nd  in  state  for  engineering  graphics,  1st  in 
regional  for  engineering  graphics,  1st  in  district  for 
engineering  graphics,  2nd  in  district  for  math),  Ri- 
chard Tennison  (1st  in  regional  for  physics,  2nd  in 
district  for  physics),  Jeffrey  Brokish  (1st  in  regional  for 
computers,  3rd  in  district  for  computers),  Bev  Nannini 
(2nd  in  regional  for  English,  2nd  in  biology  at  district), 
Emily  Conners  (tied  for  2nd  in  regional  for  biology), 
Jared  Callison  (tied  for  3rd  place  in  regional  for  phys- 
ics), Jason  Wrage  (1st  place  in  district  for  computers), 
Joe  Utter  (2nd  in  district  for  engineering  graphics), 
Thai  Son  Pham  (3rd  in  district  for  chemistry). 


26  JETS 


Bev  Nannini  also  did  very  well  for  her  last  year  as  a member  of 
JETS. 


Seniors  Jason  Wrage  and  Jared  Anderson  both  had  extremely 
successful  years  on  the  JETS  team. 


Scholastic  Bowl  Excels 


The  Scholastic  Bowl  team  ended  a winning  sea- 
son with  a second  place  finish  at  District  compe- 
tition. This  was  the  first  year  IHSA  divided  state 
quiz  team  playoffs  into  small  and  large  school  di- 
visions, giving  the  smaller  schools  a greater  oppor- 
tunity for  advancement.  In  addition,  the  varsity 
quizzers  brought  home  two  tournament  trophies:  a 
third  place  in  the  Okaw  League  Conference  Tour- 
nament and  a fourth  place  at  the  Eastern  Illinois 
University  Tournament.  The  team  finished  first  in 
its  division  at  the  Sullivan  Invitational  Tourna- 
ment, but  was  eliminated  in  the  finals. 

Leading  the  team  in  individual  scoring  was  senior 
Jared  Anderson  with  95  toss-ups.  Anderson  was 
named  to  the  all-tournament  teams  as  one  of  the 
five  high-scoring  individuals  at  the  EIU,  Okaw,  and 
Richland  tournaments.  Junior  Savilla  Joss  followed 
Anderson  closely  with  82  toss-ups. 

Junior  Josh  Rich,  with  37  toss-ups,  and  senior 
Bev  Nannini,  with  29,  also  made  a strong  showing. 
Senior  Jason  Wrage,  the  team’s  captain,  pulled  down 
19  toss-ups.  Junior  Jared  Callison  scored  16,  soph- 
omore Joe  Daniels  made  14,  and  junior  Mark  Mich- 
el scored  10.  Freshman  Jeff  Brokish  made  3 toss- 
ups  for  the  varsity  team  and  sophomore  Mike  Ber- 
nard made  2,  as  did  senior  Debbie  Willis.  The  team 
was  coached  by  Mr.  Galen  Strain. 

The  varsity’s  overall  record  for  the  1991-1992 
season  was  21  wins,  20  losses.  The  quizzers  broke 
even  in  Okaw  Tournament  play  with  8 wins,  8 losses. 

The  Junior  Varsity  Scholastic  Bowl  team  finished 
the  season  with  a 12-4  record  and  a fourth  place 
trophy  in  Okaw  Tournament  play.  Team  captain 
Joe  Daniels  made  the  all-tournament  team  as  one 
of  the  five  individuals  with  the  most  toss-ups.  The 
team  finished  second  in  regular  conference  play. 

The  JV  team  was  paced  by  Daniels,  a sophomore, 
who  pulled  down  49  JV  toss-ups,  as  well  as  making 
a strong  showing  in  varsity  tournament  play.  Fresh- 
man Jeff  Brokish  scored  32  toss-ups,  sophomore 
Mike  Bernard  28  toss-ups,  and  freshman  Joe  Adams 
26.  Tasha  Walston  contributed  4 to  the  total.  Scor- 
ing was  well  balanced,  with  Daniels  strong  in  math 
and  spelling,  Brokish  in  social  studies,  Adams  and 
Bernard  in  science,  and  Walston  in  English.  The 
JVs  were  coached  by  Mrs.  Becky  Adams. 


Scholastic  Bowl  team  members — Front  row:  Josh  Rich,  Jason  Wrage, 
Debbie  Willis,  Dionna  Earl,  Bev  Nannini,  Savvy  Joss.  Row  2:  Karle 
Koritz,  Joe  Adams,  Joe  Daniels,  Tasha  Walston,  Mike  Bernard,  JefT 
Brokish,  and  Jennifer  Kuntz. 


Varsity  team  members  spend  their  time  before  school  getting  ready 
for  the  big  tournaments. 


The  fourth  place  winners  at  the  E1A  tournament. 


Interact  Officers:  Mrs.  Shelton,  Joe  Daniels,  Jill  Hickerson,  Jennifer 
Schottel,  and  Kimberly  Tuggle. 

INTERACT 

CLUB 

“A  friend  is  someone  who  understands  your  past,  be- 
lieves in  your  future,  and  accepts  you  today  just  the  way 
you  are.”  This  quote  aptly  describes  the  philosophy  of 
the  Interact  Club.  Members  act,  as  well,  as  ambassadors 
representing  the  student  body  at  a variety  of  functions 
throughout  the  year.  Activities  included  being  tour  guides 
at  both  the  fall  and  spring  parent  conferences,  student 
panelists  at  SOS — Start  Off  Successful,  the  freshman  ori- 
entation program,  and  adopting  a grandparent  at  a local 
nursing  home.  At  Christmas  time.  Interact  Club  baked 
cookies  and  visited  the  nursing  home,  where  they  played 
games  and  chatted  with  the  residents.  Club  members 
also  entertained  senior  citizens  at  the  Friendship  Center 
by  singing  everyone’s  favorite  Christmas  carols.  This  field 
trip  was  fun-filled.  Traditionally,  Interact  Club  members 
pass  out  programs  at  graduation  and  Baccalaureate.  In- 
teract Club  also  plans  to  end  the  year  with  a trip  to  Six 
Flags  and  a cookout  at  Weldon  Springs.  New  members 
are  ALWAYS  welcome. 


Above:  Josh  Rich  and  Jennifer  Schottel  tell  the  camera  to  join  Interact 
Gub.  Below:  Smile  Mrs.  Shelton!! 


28  Interact  Gub 


TOP— NHS  Officers— Denise  Komeman,  Jason  Wrage,  Julie  Heap, 
and  Debbie  Willis.  BELOW:  Stacy  Newberry  shows  off  the  8 lb.  bar 
of  chocolate  that  she  won. 


NHS 

INDUCTS  17 

Eleven  returning  NHS  students  faced  the  fall  with  the 
task  of  raising  money  to  ensure  an  elegant  luncheon  and 
a memorable  ceremony  for  the  new  inductees.  The  usual 
lollipop  sales  were  ruled  out  because  of  their  messiness. 
A request  to  sell  Bike’s  candies  was  approved,  and  sales 
went  smoothly  UNTIL  a new  rule  regarding  candy  sales 
in  the  halls  and  classrooms  was  instituted.  At  that  point 
the  remaining  bars  were  quickly  sold  at  cost,  and  the 
boxed  candy  was  donated  to  charity.  On  March  1 7,  six- 
teen juniors  and  one  senior  were  inducted  into  the  Charles 
Evans  Chapter  of  the  National  Honor  Society.  Members 
of  their  families  and  their  friends  were  invited  to  witness 
these  honors.  After  the  ceremony,  guests  and  members 
enjoyed  delicious  cookies  and  punch  prepared  by  Mrs. 
Hogan’s  food  classes.  Much  of  May  was  spent  in  organ- 
izing and  obtaining  permission  for  the  community  work 
project.  As  always,  Mrs.  Wunderlich,  Mrs.  Fry  and  Mr. 
Bauersachs,  were  pleased  with  NHS’s  efforts  and  service 
to  the  community. 


NHS  29 


:t*k  LI 


fSLi 


u 


This  year,  the  Student  Council 
sponsored  the  Homecoming  and 
Sweetheart  dances.  The  council  also 
established  two  academic  awards  for 
the  1991-92  school  years.  These 
awards  included  the  Dynamic  Duo 
award,  given  to  teachers,  and  the 
Genin'  Better  award  for  improved 
students.  For  the  end  of  the  year 
party,  the  Student  Council  went  to 
Six  Rags. 


Senior  members  Dionna  Earl  and  Stephanie  Hag- 
er guard  the  cash  box  during  the  Homecoming 
dance. 


Scott  Fort  D.J.s  the  Homecoming 
dance. 


Student  Council  Officers:  Travis  Cornwell,  treasurer,  Dionna  Earl,  secretary;  Stephanie  Hager,  vice-president;  Bev  Nannini,  president; 
and  Dan  Hendrix,  parliamentarian 


C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  Officers — Front  row:  Stacy  Newberry  and  Bev  Nannini.  Row  2:  Brad  Gordon,  Denise  Komeman,  Kristi  Helton,  Tad 
Baird,  and  Julie  Heap. 


Clinton  High  School  students  take  a break  during  state  test- 
ing. 


C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  sponsored  several  dances,  including  a free 
one  for  those  willing  to  pledge  to  be  alcohol-free  for  the  week- 
end. CAPTAINS  also  sponsored  and  organized  a highly  suc- 
cessful afternoon  assembly,  addressed  by  Butch  Cotter.  Over- 
all, CAPTAINS  had  a highly  productive  year. 


C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  31 


TAKING  A STEP  AHEAD  WITH 

PEP  CLUB 


This  year  an  entirely  different  club  left  their 
mark  on  the  students  of  Clinton  High  School. 
The  Clinton  Community  High  School  Pep 
Club  had  one  terrific  beginning.  Throughout 
the  year  the  pep  club  established  its  real  mean- 
ing. which  was  to  show  total  school  spirit,  and 
to  be  known  as  leaders  of  school  spirit  in  all 
sports  activities.  The  club  ended  up  with  a 
medium  size  group,  that  had  done  a large 
amount  of  activities.  Some  of  the  activities 
included,  the  50/50  raffle,  the  signing  of  a ban- 
ner that  displayed  the  names  of  every  student 
in  this  school,  the  making  of  the  signs  for  the 
cheering  from  all  of  the  fans,  and  getting  the 
parents  to  support  us  with  all  of  the  activities. 


i '.  3r£»5 


- Jbl  P 


ABOVE:  SMILE  PEP  CLUB  OFFICERS!  Rebecca  Bloch,  sec- 
retary; Jennifer  Schottel,  secretary;  Kristi  Helton,  president;  Cathy 
Trago,  liaison;  and  Rebekah  Imig,  vice  president.  Below:  Mrs. 
Werts  spends  her  time  counting  the  plotto  money.  Left:  Beth 
Maxwell  waves  at  the  camera  while  Chris  Hammer  hides.  Lower 
left:  Rebecca  Bloch,  Jennifer  Schottel,  and  Cathy  Trago  all  think 
about  what  they  are  doing. 


32  Pep  Club 


Kristi  Helton  and  Sherry  Arnold  enjoy  the  pizza  party. 


S.A.D.D.  ’92 

S.A.D.D.,  Students  Against  Driving  Drunk,  had  a very 
productive  year  in  1991-92.  They  held  a pizza  party  to 
promote  one  home  football  game  and  one  home  bas- 
ketball game.  They  also  sponsored  a dance  in  conjuction 
with  C.  A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  after  a basketball  game,  where  they 
provided  pizza  and  soda.  In  March,  the  club  recognized 
S.A.D.D.’s  birthday  with  cookies  for  the  whole  school. 
In  April  S.A.D.D.  held  Death  Day  for  the  second  year 
in  a row.  It  was  held  on  April  30th  in  order  to  make  the 
students  aware  of  the  dangers  of  drinking  and  driving 
both  on  prom  night  and  any  other  night  of  the  year.  One 
teenager  dies  every  23  minutes  from  a drunk  driving 
accident,  and  that  is  what  Death  Day  is  all  about. 
S.A.D.D.  also  provided  money  to  sponsor  prom  events 
such  as  putting  reminders  in  the  flower  boxes.  To  raise 
the  money  for  all  of  its  events,  S.A.D.D.  held  a fund- 
raiser in  the  fall.  From  this  fund  raiser,  S.A.D.D.  raised 
about  $1,000.  Steve  Zartler  is  the  sponsor  for  S.A.D.D. 
and  enjoys  it  very  much. 


Ross  Graber  participated  in  Death  Day  in- 
voluntarily but  did  a great  job.  Steve  Zar- 
tler has  a lot  to  smile  about.  S.A.D.D.  had 
another  great  year.  The  turnout  for  the 
meetings  was  not  as  high  as  previous  years 
but  was  impressive,  nonetheless. 


S.A.D.D.  Officers— Back  row:  Andrea  Sams,  Brandy  Kress,  Tracey  Kress,  Cheri  Jent.  Front 
row:  Debbie  Willis,  Kristi  Helton,  Jacque  Bray,  Denise  Komeman,  Dionna  Earl,  and  Bobbie 
Isaac.  President:  Kristi  Helton.  Vice-President:  Denise  Komeman.  Secretary:  Debbie  Willis. 
Treasurer  Bobbie  Isaac.  Publicity:  Jacque  Bray. 


Debbie  Willis  samples  the  delicious  pizza  from  Sorrento’s. 


Grim  Reaper,  Kristi  Helton,  leads  freshman,  Lynnette  Gibson, 
back  to  class. 


S.A.D.D.  33 


The  FHA  decided  to  start  the  year  off  early  by  being 
a part  of  the  Homecoming  parade  and  by  decorating  a 
float.  While  they  held  their  Wednesday  night  meetings, 
many  of  them  had  fun  learning  to  cook,  doing  crafts, 
and  learning  to  do  counted  crosstitch.  During  the  Christ- 
mas season,  they  participated  in  the  Angel  Tree  Program 
by  buying  little  gifts  for  kids  in  need.  They  also  did  the 
ever-popular  secret  sisters.  They  bought  gifts  for  other 
people,  gave  them  to  them,  and  didn’t  identify  them- 
selves for  at  least  4 weeks.  Once  again,  the  FHA  had 
their  annual  canned  food  drive,  which  was  co-sponsored 
by  the  exchange  club.  Mr.  Zartler’s  1st  hour  class  won 
with  the  most  donations,  and  the  freshmen  won  the 
overall.  Besides  the  normal  FHA  year,  there  were  also 
the  Home  Economics  classes.  Within  those  classes,  they 
held  a child  care  preschool  during  7th  hour.  They  also 
constructed  a playground  using  household  materials  and 
glue.  The  creative  cookery  class  went  to  Dave’s  and 
worked  decorating  cakes.  Along  side  the  FHA  program 
is  the  FFA  program.  The  FFA  also  had  their  annual  float 
in  the  Homecoming  parade,  and  their  children’s  zoo  here 
at  the  high  school.  The  zoo  entertained  kids  from  kin- 
dergarten all  the  way  to  fifth  grade.  There  were  even 
some  parents  that  came  and  joined  the  fun.  The  FFA 
banquet  honored  the  best  of  those  who  joined  in  on  the 
fun.  Prizes  were  presented  to  those  that  had  won  honors 
at  different  competitions  throughout  the  state.  Also  hon- 
ored were  the  seniors  that  were  actively  involved  in  the 
group  and  those  underclassmen  actively  involved.  The 
FFA  also  helped  out  at  the  local  Easter  celebration.  They 
had  a petting  zoo  for  anyone  that  wanted  to  pet  an  an- 
imal. They  even  had  a special  turkey  there.  Animals 
included  ranged  from  a rabbit  to  a calf.  All  of  the  little 
kids  enjoyed  the  animals  and  the  fun.  Obviously,  both 
the  FHA  and  the  FFA  had  a great  year. 


Front  row:  Angie  Zieman,  vice  president;  Susan  Anderson,  social  di- 
rector; Marie  Henson,  president.  Row  2:  Renae  Whitney,  treasurer;  Mrs. 
Arnold,  advisor,  and  Sarah  Roberts,  secretary. 


The  FHA  gang  sits  at  Millikin  University.  Right:  Ross  Graber  and  Sara 
Bloch  cook  up  a storm.  Below:  Sara  Leimbach  and  Sherry  Arnold 
consult  Mr.  Prather. 


Front  row:  Zack  Howell;  Sherry  Arnold,  secretary;  Kimberly  Best,  treas- 
urer, Bill  Musick,  reporter;  I jeslie  Hunt,  president.  Row  2:  Rusty  Sayers; 
Mr.  Prather,  advisor,  and  Kesha  Ridenour. 


Far  above:  Sam  Arnold  prepares  for  the  banquet.  Above:  Kesha  Ri- 
denour and  Mr.  Prather  look  their  best  for  their  guests.  Below;  Many 
of  the  FHA  members  enjoy  their  day  at  the  regional  rally.  Front — Back: 
Meghan  Arteman,  Susan  Anderson,  Kim  Tuggle,  Angie  Zieman,  Marie 
Hensen,  April  Davis,  Sarah  Roberts,  Angie  Nagy,  and  Renae  Whitney. 


SUPER  SECRETARIES 


Super  Secretaries  is  a club,  spon- 
sored by  Mrs.  Allison,  for  students 
interested  in  business.  Social,  edu- 
cational, and  philanthropic  events  are 
planned  throughout  the  year.  This 
year  they  enjoyed  a fall  cookout  and 
games  at  Weldon  Springs  State  Park. 
Many  participated  in  Secret  Santa 
and  celebrated  Christmas  with  a 
Christmas  party  at  Mrs.  Allison’s, 
where  they  exchanged  gifts,  sang  car- 
ols, and  ate  goodies.  While  enjoying 
a pizza  party,  several  girls  made  Val- 
entines for  residents  of  The  DeWitt 
County  Nursing  Home  in  February. 
In  May,  numerous  members  of  Su- 
per Secretaries  enjoyed  a field  trip  to 
the  State  Farm  Corporation  in 
Bloomington,  Illinois.  After  their 
tour,  the  students  devoured  their 
lunch  at  Avanti’s  Italian  Restaurant. 
The  food  from  Avanti’s  just  was  not 
enough,  and  they  convinced  the  bus 
driver  to  make  a stop  at  Dairy  Queen 
on  the  way  home. 


Nikki  Karr  and  Amy  Wheeler  roasting  hot  dogs 
at  the  annual  cookout. 


Front  Row:  Dyan  Shepherd,  vice  president;  and  Steph  Beadles,  student  council  represen- 
tative. Row  2:  Amber  Graves,  social  chairman;  Sarah  Gentry,  secretary;  and  Kristin  Lane, 
president. 


36  Super  Secretaries 


AUTO  MECHANICS 


“Is  this  the  engine?"  asks  Andrew  Goodman. 


Brian  Cooper,  treasurer  and  Rick  Heath,  secretary 

Auto  Mechanics  is  a club,  spon- 
sored by  Mr.  Adams,  for  any  student 
who  has  been  enrolled  in  a mechan- 
ics class.  The  members  of  Auto  Me- 
chanics enjoyed  a variety  of  activi- 
ties this  year.  In  the  fall  Scott  Baum, 
of  Baum  Chevrolet  Buick  in  Clinton, 
came  to  a meeting  and  spoke  to 
members  about  automobile  restora- 
tion. Baum’s  donated  a 1985  Chev- 
rolet Celebrity  for  instructional  pur- 
poses in  classes  at  the  high  school 
this  year.  Marve  Murphy,  of  Mur- 
phy’s Performance  Shop,  spoke  to  the 
club  about  the  automotive  program 
which  will  be  available  soon  at  Rich- 
land. Several  members  participated  in  the  annual  Christ- 
mas party  held  at  Monical’s  in  December.  Each  year  the 
club  spends  long  hours  working  at  the  concession  stands 
at  games  to  raise  money  for  their  scholarship.  The  $300 
scholarship  is  given  to  a mechanics  student  who  shows 
ability  and  interest  in  furthering  his  education  in  the 
field.  The  vice-president  of  the  1992  Auto  Mechanics 
club,  Will  Daniels,  placed  sixth  overall  in  a Small  Engine 
Contest  held  in  Peoria.  The  Auto  Mechanics  club  had 
a successful,  fun-filled  year. 


Will  Daniels  gets  a look  under  Mr.  Zartler’s  car. 


Auto  Mechanics  37 


THESPIANS 

The  Thespians  present  two  productions  each  year,  the 
fall  play  and  the  spring  musical.  The  fall  play  was  WIL- 
EY AND  THE  HAIRYMAN  with  Cary  Luttrell  cast  as 
Wiley  and  Jonathon  Hale  cast  as  the  Hairyman.  Rebek- 
ah  Imig  and  Rebecca  Bloch  took  turns  playing  Wiley’s 
Mammy.  The  rest  of  the  cast  consisted  of  thirteen  swamp 
members.  WILEY  AND  THE  HAIRYMAN  was  a real 
success  for  the  Thespians.  The  spring  musical,  GREASE, 
was  another  big  success  for  the  Thespians.  Josh  Rich 
and  Kristi  Helton  were  cast  as  the  leads,  Danny  Zuko 
and  Sandy  Dumbrowski.  Stuart  Coon  and  Eric  Weaver, 
both  friends  to  the  Thespians,  volunteered  their  time  to 
be  cast  in  the  spring  musical.  The  total  cast  and  crew 
numbered  between  60-70.  The  Thespians  also  did  a great 
job  of  the  annual  production  of  Drama  and  Doughnuts 
held  in  May. 

The  Thespians  attend  the  All-State  Theatre  Festival 
yearly  to  attend  workshops  and  watch  plays.  Jared  Cal- 
lison  was  cast  in  this  year’s  All-State  production  of  TO 
KILL  A MOCKINGBIRD.  This  production  consisted 
of  80-100  of  the  best  actors  and  actresses  from  around 
the  state. 


Upper  right:  Darcie  Webb  and  Kristi  Helton  finish  getting  their  make- 
up on.  Right:  Jared  Callison,  president,  and  Julie  Heap,  secretary.  Lower 
left:  Students  gather  at  the  All-State  Theatre  Festival.  Lower  center 
Jonathon  Hale  prepares  his  make-up  for  GREASE.  Lower  right:  Ms. 
Jones  guides  the  Thespians  through  another  great  year! 


38  Thespians 


TECH  ENGINEERS 


CCHS  has  a small  group  of  stu- 
dents that  are  well  trained  in  all  as- 
pects of  the  auditorium.  They  work 
with  most  all  of  the  plays,  are  avail- 
able when  called  upon  to  run  the 
sound  booth  or  light  booths,  and  help 
out  when  needed.  These  people  are 
the  Tech  Engineers.  This  group  was 
started  last  year,  1990,  and  has  be- 
come a very  vital  part  of  the  theater. 
Roger  Massey,  a former  student  at 
CCHS,  is  the  sponsor  of  the  group. 
Mrs.  Jones  also  helps  out  and  calls 
upon  the  Tech  Engineers  whenever 
they  are  needed.  Without  the  Tech 
Engineers,  the  school  plays  would  not 
be  as  successful  as  they  are.  The  ac- 
tors and  directors  thank  the  Tech  En- 
gineers for  all  the  time,  effort,  and 
pride  they  put  into  their  job. 


Ben  Helton,  sophomore,  is  new  to  the  Tech  Engineers  program  this  year.  Jared  Anderson, 
senior,  is  a veteran  to  the  Tech  Engineers,  and  has  done  much  for  the  program.  Ryan  Archey. 
senior  and  veteran,  does  just  as  much  for  the  Tech  Engineers  as  Jared.  The  two  seem 
inseparable  during  the  play  season.  Cathy  Trago  recruited  Tracey  Kress  for  the  1992  Tech 
Engineers.  Jason  Wrage.  senior  and  leader  of  the  Tech  Engineers,  helped  to  make  the  1992 
season  a successful  one. 


Tech  Engineers  39 


A STEP  UP  TO  ART 


The  Clinton  Art  Club  was  involved  in  a huge  num- 
ber of  activities.  The  members  helped  update  the  girls’ 
basketball  signs  for  the  gym.  They  also  helped  the 
First  Christian  Church  celebrate  their  50th  anniver- 
sary by  creating  a sculpture.  The  local  Me  Donald’s 
had  the  art  club  do  window  displays.  The  club  made 
special  designs  for  the  windows  at  Homecoming, 
Christmas,  Valentines  Day,  Easter,  and  Mother’s  Day. 
The  club  raised  money  for  matting  and  framing.  The 
money  also  purchased  prizes  that  were  donated  to  the 
area  nursing  homes.  This  year  Jeff  Wrage  was  given 
the  Hallmark  Award  for  the  best  art  entry  in  the  show. 
He  was  also  chosen,  out  of  70,  to  have  his  art  rep- 
resented in  New  York.  CONGRATULATIONS 
JEFF!! 


Above  left:  Mr.  Bryant  gives  the  art  club  members  directions.  Above: 
Michelle  Purkes  gets  good  advice  from  her  student  teacher.  Lower  left: 
Jason  Stevens  works  on  the  set  for  WILEY  AND  THE  HAIRYMAN. 
Below:  Brooke  Lemmel  and  Danielle  Basden  help  paint  the  important 
parts  for  the  set. 


40  Art  Gub 


Above:  Michelle  Purkes,  librarian;  Will  Conaty,  president  and  vice  pres- 
ident; Cary  Luttrell,  treasurer,  Jennifer  Brown,  secretary;  and  Jonathon 
Hale,  librarian. 


Above:  Jenny  Kuntz  tells  her  friends  how  much  fun  chorus  is. 


This  year  there  were  two  choruses  for  twice  the  fun. 
Another  new  addition  was  the  male  barbershop  quartet, 
which  sang  for  several  functions,  including  the  Bloom- 
ington Elks,  the  National  Honor  Society  Initiation,  and 
the  CCHS  Honors  Banquet.  Several  chorus  members 
attended  the  ISU  Choral  Festival  in  the  fall.  Josh  Rich 
was  selected  for  top  honors  at  the  Illinois  Music  Edu- 
cators Conference  in  January  as  a member  of  the  Honors 
Chorus.  Both  groups  gave  concerts  for  “The  Young  At 
Heart”  group  at  the  First  Christian  Church,  entertained 
the  folks  at  the  First  Christian  Church,  and  held  two 
exchange  Christmas  Concerts  with  Douglas  and  Lincoln 
schools.  The  Winter  Holiday  Concert  was  held  in  con- 
junction with  the  band  this  year.  Members  sold  Easter 
candy  to  raise  the  funds  for  awards,  concert  T-shirts,  and 
a trip  to  a dinner  theater.  The  spring  concert  featured 
both  groups  separately  and  in  combination.  Several  four- 
year  chorus  members  were  honored  at  the  spring  concert. 


Above:  The  advanced  chorus  practices  for  their  final  concert  of  the 
year.  Left:  Gina  Alsup  boards  the  bus  to  another  concert. 


41 


A STEP  IN  TIME 
WITH  CCHS  BANDS 


Chad  Samson  and  Jared  Callison  direct  the  band  while  Tiffany  Brown  and 
Heather  Anderson  carry  the  new  banner. 


When  late  August  rolled  around,  Mr.  Streight  found 
the  hand  was  easy  to  work  with.  Students  were  self- 
motivated  and  had  real  pride  in  what  they  were  doing. 
A spirit  of  teamwork  prevailed.  Drum  majors,  Jared 
Callison  and  Chad  Samson,  displayed  excellent  lead- 
ership and  marching  skills.  Many  band  members,  es- 
pecially squad  leaders,  displayed  a keen  interest  in 
marching  correctly,  which  carried  over  to  all  band 
members.  The  Marching  Maroons  performed  much 
better  than  they  had  in  the  five  years  Mr.  Streight  had 
been  at  CCHS. 

The  band  was  video  tapecj  on  several  occasions  dur- 
ing the  marching  season.  This  tape  was  sent  to  Disney 
World  as  a part  of  the  audition  requirements.  The 
band  was  accepted  to  perform  at  Epcot  Center  during 
the  late  March  of  1 993.  Even  though  past  Clinton  Bands 
had  performed  at  Disney  World  as  a Concert  Band, 
CCHS  had  never  been  accepted  to  march  at  Disney 
World  before. 

Rebekah  Imig,  Todd  Norrington,  and  Stephanie 
Purkes  were  members  of  the  prestigious  ALL  STATE 
BAND.  Their  selection  into  this  band  was  based  on 
two  auditions,  one  at  the  district  level  and  one  at  the 
state  level.  This  is  the  first  year  Clinton  has  had  more 
than  one  All-Stater.  Special  congratulations  to  Rebek- 
ah, Todd,  and  Stephanie.  This  is  one  of  the  highest 
honors  a high  school  musician  can  achieve. 

Plans  are  being  made  for  the  band  to  travel  to  the 
University  of  Illinois  for  clinic  sessions  with  U of  I 
staff.  The  band  will  also  take  a short  weekend  trip  to 
Chicago  or  St.  Louis  after  performing  at  IHSA  State 
Band  Contest. 

42  Band 


Above:  Jared  Callison,  president;  Todd  Norrington,  vice  president; 
and  class  representatives  Rebekah  Imig,  Ben  Lowers,  Brandi  Kress, 
and  Amy  Nunnery.  Below:  Smile  percussion!  Front  row:  Shane  Van 
Fossan,  Andrew  Goodmon,  and  Wes  Pollock.  Row  2:  Rick  Harney, 
Bill  Lehman,  Aaron  Rasor,  Brian  Patterson,  and  Amy  Stevens.  Row 
3:  Richard  Kuntz. 


Todd  Norrington,  Stephanie  Purkes,  Rebekah  Imig,  and  Josh  Rich  get  ready  for  their  All- 
State  performance. 


Above:  Ross  Graber,  Melissa  Harvey,  Kristi 
Powers,  Cary  Luttrell,  and  Kimberly  Wool- 
len show  what  band  trips  are  like.  Left:  Kim- 
berly Woollen  practices  her  fire  batons. 


Above:  Alicia  Sprague  flashes  a sweet  smile 
after  a pep  band  performance.  Below:  Ri- 
chard Kuntz  and  Shane  Van  Fossan  strike 
it  up. 


Band  43 


Foreign  Language  Club 

The  Foreign  Language  Club  held  its  annual  Christmas 
Party  at  the  high  school  this  year.  There  was  an  all-time 
record  turnout  for  the  event,  so  it  could  not  be  held  at 
Mrs.  Laffey’s  house  as  it  has  traditionally  been.  They 
also  saw  “Cats”  at  the  University  of  Illinois  Assembly 
Hall.  One  of  the  school-wide  activities  that  the  Foreign 
Language  Club  organized  included  a breakfast  with 
croissants,  coffee,  and  hot  cocoa;  they  also  tried  to  hold 
a poster  contest  for  the  spring  musical,  “Grease,”  but 
there  was  only  one  entrant,  Tasha  Walston.  The  Foreign 
Language  Club  also  tried  to  go  out  to  dinner,  but  they 
were  unable  to  find  an  open  date.  They  also  could  not 
find  a French  restaurant.  The  turnout  for  the  meetings 
was  good  at  the  beginning  of  the  year;  but  towards  the 
end  of  the  year,  attendance  was  declining.  The  sponsor 
of  the  club  is  Sandra  Laffey,  who  gladly  sponsors  the 
Foreign  Language  Club  and  enjoys  working  with  eager 
students.  The  club  includes  people  who  have  been  in  a 
foreign  language  course  previously  and  also  people  who 
are  participating  in  a foreign  language  class  at  the  present 
time.  The  club  tries  to  bring  the  spirit  of  a foreign  lan- 
guage to  the  students  of  Clinton  High  School  as  well  as 
the  teachers  and  community.  The  officers  this  year  con- 
sisted mostly  of  seniors,  with  one  sophomore. 


Top:  Mrs.  Laffey  swings  at  the  pinata  at  the  annual  Christmas  party. 
Center  Jason  Wrage  should  take  a few  pointers  from  Mrs.  Laffey 
on  how  to  hit  the  pinata.  Stephanie  Hager  and  Jacque  Bray  seem 
to  think  so.  Left:  FLC  officers:  Stacy  Newberry,  Jacque  Bray,  Debbie 
Willis,  Stephanie  Hager,  Bobbie  Isaac,  Gina  VanApeldoom,  and 
Cheri  Jent.  Above:  Debbie  Willis  likes  to  kick  up  her  feet  every 
once  in  a while. 


44  Foreign  Language  Club 


Top:  Stephanie  poses  for  a senior  picture,  a tradition  in  the  U.S. 
that  she  decided  to  follow  while  staying  here.  Above:  Malu  enjoys 
staying  in  a hotel  while  meeting  other  foreign  exchange  students. 
Right:  Steph  happily  participates  in  CCHS’s  pep  band.  Stephanie 
played  clarinet  while  living  in  Clinton.  Far  right:  Malu  exhibits 
her  outstanding  singing  ability  through  chorus,  a class  that  she 
enjoyed  very  much. 


Malu  Garcia,  one  of  the  two  foreign  exchange  stu- 
dents this  year,  arrived  in  Clinton  from  the  Philippines 
on  September  15,  1991.  Malu  likes  everything  about 
the  United  States.  When  asked  if  she  liked  living  in 
Clinton,  she  replied,  “Oh,  yes,  very  much.  I don’t  un- 
derstand why  people  ask  me  how  I got  to  be  assigned 
here.  I think  the  people  who  make  up  Clinton  are  fun 
and  people  who  look  at  life  in  a positive  way.”  Malu 
finds  living  away  from  her  parents  considerably  easy 
due  to  the  fact  she  previously  attended  a private  Cath- 
olic high  school  for  girls  in  Manila.  She  thinks  of  her 
parents  often,  but  she  has  gotten  used  to  being  apart. 
After  returning  to  the  Philippines,  Malu  plans  to  finish 
college,  and  intends  to  return  to  the  United  States  to 
visit  her  friends  during  spring  break.  “I  know  that  it 
will  hurt  leaving  my  new  family  and  friends,  but  I just 
have  to  be  positive  like  what  you  guys  are  doing,” 
expressed  Malu.  When  asked  what  ideas  or  mementos 
she  plans  to  take  back  to  her  country,  she  replied,  “My 
yearbook  and  pictures  of  myself  doing  fun  stuff  with 
my  friends.  I’ll  always  remember  this  year,  1991-92, 
because  of  all  the  new  friends  I’ve  made  and  most  of 
all,  I’ve  realized  that,  regardless  of  color,  race,  and 
religion,  people  young  and  old  everywhere  are  the 
same.” 

Stephanie  Bezier,  the  other  foreign  exchange  stu- 
dent, arrived  from  Munich,  Germany,  on  August  7, 
1991,  smiling  and  eager  to  learn  the  culture  of  the 
United  States.  When  Stephanie  was  asked  what  she 
liked  best  about  the  U.S.,  she  responded,  “I  like  the 
big  cities  like  Chicago  and  Milwaukee.  I like  the  people 
and  everything  new  because  I don’t  know  if  I will  ever 
return  to  the  U.S.”  Steph  enjoys  living  in  Clinton,  but 
says  it  is  a very  small  town,  and  she  wishes  there  would 
be  more  places  to  meet  people  other  than  the  Square. 
Her  favorite  foods  are  pizza  and  cheese  sticks.  She 
enjoys  being  outdoors  and  participating  in  sports  such 
as  volleyball.  “I  like  being  here  in  America,”  said  Ste- 
phanie. 


Foreign  Exchange  Students  45 


ONE  STEP  CLOSER  TO 


The  Y earbook  Staff  started  out  the  year  with  a larger 
than  normal  staff.  As  always,  students  were  eager  to 
leave  the  building  to  sell  ads.  After  the  completion  of 
this  aspect  of  yearbook  production,  the  students  went 
to  the  more  complicated  parts  of  the  process — drawing 
layouts,  writing  copy,  organizing  and  cropping  pho- 
tography, and  preparing  final  pages  for  the  publisher. 

Things  went  very  slowly  as  yearbook  work  is  very 
precise.  Errors  are  very  costly — roughly  $2.80  each — 
so  meticulous  work  is  necessary. 

At  the  end  of  the  first  semester,  six  students  selected 
another  class  or  study  hall  in  place  of  Yearbook  Class. 
Work  and  workers  became  more  organized,  and  pages 
started  to  be  completed. 

At  this  writing  (February  28,  1992)  my  hair  has  tak- 
en on  even  deeper  shades  of  gray,  and  Mr.  Zimmer- 
man is  a bit  balder.  If  you  see  this  copy  in  printed 
form,  you  will  know  we  are  no  longer  “One  Step  Away.” 


Above:  Stephanie  Hager  shows  just  how  yearbook  Mondays  really 
are.  Above  right:  Rebekah  Imig  and  Cary  Luttrell  try  to  work  as 
Kristi  Helton  shows  off  her  pretty  smile.  Right  below:  Jonathon 
Hale  messes  around  while  there’s  work  to  be  done. 


46  Clintonia 


PERFECTION 


Above — Clockwise:  Kristi  Helton  and  Renee  Clark  stop  for  a mo- 
ment to  smile  at  the  yearbook  camera.  Bobbie  Isaac  threatens  the 
sleeping  Bryce  McCleary,  while  Jason  Wrage  laughs  and  keeps  work- 
ing. 


Clintonia  47 


PUTTING  THEIR  BEST 


Each  year  Clinton  Community  High  School  holds 
the  Honors  Assembly  to  honor  those  students  who 
have  received  awards  or  scholarships  throughout  the 
year.  Jennifer  Kuntz  was  the  Hugh  O’Brien  Youth 
Foundation  Ambassador.  The  Xerox  Award  went  to 
Amy  Wheeler.  Jennifer  Schottel  and  Darcie  Webb  were 
chosen  to  represent  CCHS  at  Girls  State  at  Eastern 
Illinois  University.  WCIA-TV  Best  of  the  Class  went 
to  Jared  Anderson.  The  Decatur  Herald  and  Review 
Scholar  of  the  Year  was  Denise  Korneman.  Savilla 
Joss  and  Joe  Alexander  were  honored  for  their  lead- 
ership abilities  by  receiving  the  “I  Dare  You  Award.” 
The  Principals  Leadership  Award  was  presented  to  Ja- 
son Wrage.  Kristi  Helton  was  recognized  as  a finalist 
in  the  Jostens  Foundation  Leader  Scholarship  Pro- 
gram. Ambassador  Awards  were  presented  to  the  two 
exchange  students,  Malu  Garcia  and  Stephanie  Bezier. 
The  Presidential  Academic  Fitness  Award  was  pre- 
sented to  Jared  Anderson,  Dionna  Earl,  Denise  Korne- 
man, Bev  Nannini,  Bobbie  Isaac,  Jason  Wrage,  Phil 
Mandrell,  Stacy  Newberry,  Julie  Heap,  Renee  Work- 
man, and  Debra  Willis.  A special  award  for  extraor- 
dinary effort  was  given  to  Thai  Son  Pham.  Julie  Heap, 
the  1991  winner  of  the  Broken  Mirror  Award,  contin- 
ued the  tradition  by  passing  on  this  coveted  award  to 
junior  Melissa  Peters.  The  U.S.  Army  Reserve  Na- 
tional Scholar/Athlete  Award  was  presented  to  Stacy 
Newberry  and  Tad  Baird.  Baird  and  Newberry  also 
received  the  Okaw  Conference  Scholar  Athlete  Award. 
DAR-SAR  Awards  for  outstanding  citizenship,  schol- 
arship, leadership,  and  patriotism,  were  presented  to 
Ryan  Archey  and  Denise  Korneman.  The  Bausch  and 
Lomb  award  for  most  outstanding  math/science  stu- 
dent went  to  Amy  Wheeler. 

Outstanding  students  from  each  department  were  as 
follows:  agriculture — Bill  Music  and  Ashley  Sayers, 
art — Rachel  Lobb,  business — Tricia  Lowrey,  dramat- 
ics— Cary  Luttrell,  English — Jared  Anderson  and 
Denise  Korneman,  foreign  language — Bev  Nannini, 
home  economics — Gina  Alsup,  industrial  arts — Will 
Daniels,  instrumental  music — Brant  Obermeyer, 
mathematics — Jared  Anderson  and  Denise  Korne- 
man, physical  education — Bev  Nannini  and  Tim 
McGhee,  science — Denise  Korneman,  social  stud- 
ies— Jared  Anderson,  vocal  music — Jennifer  Brown 
and  Tina  Russell,  and  vocational  student  of  the  year — 
Sherry  Arnold. 


50  Awards 


The  “M”  Squad  won  the  first  place  trophy  for  their  novelty 
routine  at  state  competition. 


FOOT  FORWARD 


Upper  left:  Jason  Wrage  smiles  as  he  is  announced  the  winner  of  the  Principal’s  Leadership 
Award.  Upper  right:  The  JETS  team  continued  their  tradition  of  winning  many  awards  for 
CCHS.  Center  left:  Kristi  Helton  is  honored  to  be  chosen  as  a finalist  in  the  Jostens  Foun- 
dation Leader  Scholarship  Program.  Center  right:  Members  of  the  J V Scholastic  Bowl  Team 
were  honored.  Left:  Jared  Anderson  is  recognized  as  WCIA-TV  Best  of  the  Class. 


Awards  51 


Top — Senior  Class  Honor  Students:  Bobbie  Isaac,  Julia  Heap,  Denise  Korneman,  Thai  Son 
Pham,  Jason  Wrage,  Bev  Nannini,  Stacy  Newberry,  Debbie  Willis,  Jared  Anderson,  and 
Tricia  Lowrey.  Above  right:  Thai  Son  Pham  receives  a special  award  for  academic  excellence 
from  Mr.  Bauersachs.  Above — Junior  Class  Honor  Students:  Shilo  Rogers,  Richard  Ten- 
nison,  Tricia  Tuggle,  Stephanie  Purkes,  Melissa  Peters,  Anita  White,  Jill  Harris,  Andrea 
Glenn,  Darcie  Webb,  Jared  Callison,  Amy  Wheeler,  Wendy  Conn,  Sherry  Arnold,  Kim 
Woollen,  and  Tracey  Kress.  Center  right:  Julie  Heap  passes  on  the  Broken  Mirror  Award 
to  junior  recipient,  Melissa  Peters.  Right:  Mr.  Bauersachs  gives  the  “I  Dare  You”  award 
to  Savilla  Joss  and  Joe  Alexander. 


52  Awards 


Top — Sophomore  Class  Honor  Students:  Emily  Conners,  Jenny  Moore,  Courtney  Bock, 
Brandy  Kress,  Terry  Brady,  and  Jesse  Johns.  Above  right:  Joe  Daniels  presents  the 
Scholastic  Bowl  trophy  to  Mr.  Bauersachs  and  the  school.  Above:  Freshman  Class  Honor 
Students:  Kelly  Powers,  Marcy  Madix,  Jeffrey  Brokish,  Ross  Wantland,  Jeremy  Sugg, 
Nathan  Wheeler,  Aaron  Rasor,  Jeff  Wrage,  Joe  Adams,  and  David  Lemmel.  Center 
right:  Jason  Wrage  presents  the  JETS  trophy  to  Mr.  Bauersachs  and  the  school.  Right: 
Stephanie  Bezier  receives  an  award  for  being  the  year’s  foreign  exchange  student,  along 
with  Malu  Garcia. 


Awards  53 


Joshua  Decker 
Jonathan  Akers 
Douglas  Russell 
Jami  Windhom 
Kathryn  Goddard 
Alicia  Sprague 


Brandy  Kress 
Jason  Stith 
Joshua  Wheeler 
Moriah  Steward 
Matthew  Lighthall 
Timothy  Evans 


Sophomore  class  officers:  Jamie  Torbert,  Treasurer;  Ben  Helton,  Vice-president;  Matt 
Parson,  President;  and  Chad  Herzog,  Secretary. 

SITTING  BEHIND 


Emily  Conners  Travis  Cornwell  Paul  Martens  Jacob  Follis 


THE  WHEEL 


Joseph  Daniels  Jennifer  Moore  Curtis  Pine  Chad  Herzog 


Angela  Smith 
Benjamin  Nichols 
Mervin  Arthur 
Richard  Harney 
Jesse  Johns 
Julie  Thomas 


Wesley  Pollock 
Richard  Hooker 
Terry  Brady 
Jarod  Mears 
Adam  Long 
Michael  Bernard 


Sherry  Lane 
Angela  Zieman 
Steve  Malone 
Joshua  Carter 
Charlie  Davis 


Ryan  Sharp 
Connie  Roberts 
William  Lacroix 
Melinda  Dubson 
Wayne  Davis 


Angela  Nunnery 
Jackie  Mills 
Gina  VanApeldoom 
Laura  Utterback 
Tasha  Walston 


Kevin  Smart 
Adam  Nagy 
Marcia  Morris 
Jaime  Lobano 
Dusty  Brennan 


Justin  Nauman 
Lisa  Gore 
Angela  Koshinski 
Timothy  Hilbrick 
Charles  Goode 


Shae  Cyrulik 
Eric  Hoff 
Daniel  Hendrix 
Chad  Graves 
Melissa  Nelson 


Shane  Mills 
Sara  Connelly 
Benjamin  Helton 
Jason  Lane 
Dale  Chrispen 


Sara  Roberts 
Terah  Lusch 
Kristina  Goodwin 
Sara  Gentry 
Tracey  Mills 


Tracy  Chapman 
Thomas  Maier 
Karen  Cameron 
Jennifer  Maxwell 
Laura  Trotter 


* 

. . t 

O 


» V 

\ 


Joseph  Wilson 
Angela  Vogel 
Amie  Torbert 
Angelia  Heiberg 
Bret  Cook 


Michael  Brand 
Jason  Stephens 
Michelle  Purkes 
Lisa  Goodwin 
Douglas  Hammer 


Sara  Lei  m bach 
Anthony  Campbell 
Celia  Reynolds 
Matthew  Schneider 
Matthew  Parson 


Stacey  Tennison 
Jamie  Torbert 
Jennifer  Fisher 
Jeffrey  Dodd 
Chad  Hendriex 


Gretchen  Dukeman 
Scott  Moody 
Jarrod  Holmes 
Sara  Nunnery 
Janice  Luttrell 


Zachary  Howell 
Hillari  Winebrinner 
Stephanie  Weiss 
Craig  Snyder 
Raymond  Jimison 


James  Blue 
Jennifer  Kuntz 
Megan  Emerson 
Mark  Gall 
Douglas  Scott 


Jessica  Dahler 
Gina  Short 
Kyle  Bourne 
Nekeisha  Wiegel 
Samantha  Morrow 


Jennifer  Reinhardt 
Courtney  Bock 
Kristina  Rodgers 
Andrew  Kerley 
Mark  Decker 


Some  of  Mr.  Nagel’s  students  sit  so  attentively. 


Adam  Nagy  demonstrates  his  unique  dance  moves. 


What  IS  Michelle  Purkes  thinking  about?!? 


Class  of  1994 

The  sophomore  class  had  a successful  year  for  several 
reasons.  The  class  of  1994  began  the  year  by  building  a 
prize-winning  float  for  the  Homecoming  Parade.  The 
theme  was  “Send  ’em  Back  to  the  Reservation.”  Due  to 
the  many  hours  of  stuffing  pomps  and  eating  pizza,  pop, 
and  cake,  the  class  won  first  place.  Spirit  Week  was  also 
successful  as  the  sophomores  won  first  for  the  number 
of  participants  during  the  week. 

Sophomore  members  of  the  JETS  Team  were  Emily 
Conners  and  Jenny  Moore.  Emily  won  an  individual 
honor  at  the  regional  level  at  E.I.U.  Jenny  was  also  a 
good  member  of  the  team  according  to  Mr.  White,  the 
advisor  for  the  team.  Ben  Nichols  got  the  MVP  award 
for  his  basketball  playing  abilities. 

Many  of  the  sophomores  received  superior  and  ex- 
cellent ratings  for  their  vocal  and  instrumental  solos  at 
the  IHSA  Solo  and  Ensemble  Contest  on  March  7. 


Josh  Decker,  Tom  Maier,  and  Josh  Carter  talk  after  class  about  all 
the  girls  they  really  like. 


Happy  after  a winning  season,  Mr.  Good- 
win? 


When  the  going  gets  tough,  the  tough  get  dirty. 


The  Maroons  score  the  go-ahead  touchdown  at  Argenta. 


62  Football 


Jeff  Mannix  looks  for  a few  more  yards. 


V 


All  Area  Player,  Tad  Baird,  makes  another  tackle. 


Jason  Fairfield  and  Doug  Bostwick  team  up  for  the  extra  point. 


The  1991  Maroon  football  season  closed  at  5-4.  This 
club  established  a sense  of  unity  and  community  ex- 
citement that  had  not  been  seen  for  a long  time.  The 
team  missed  by  inches  becoming  the  first  Clinton  foot- 
ball team  to  make  the  state  playoffs.  Offensively,  the 
Maroons  totaled  the  most  rushing  yards  and  total  yards 
since  the  1984  season.  Jeff  Mannix’s  total  of  812  yards 
and  7 rushing  touchdowns  were  the  best  since  those  of 
Bob  Case  in  1984.  The  73  yard  touchdown  run  that 
Mannix  recorded  against  Sullivan  is  the  longest  in  Clin- 
ton history.  Defensively,  the  Maroons  allowed  fewer  to- 
tal yards  since  1986,  and  the  fewest  points  given  up  since 
1984.  The  special  teams  had  one  of  the  best  years  on 
record,  including  6 blocked  kicks.  The  Maroons  won 
their  first  two  games  by  a score  of  35-6  over  Beardstown, 
and  24-6  over  Unity.  They  lost  their  next  four  games  to 
tough  competition,  including  the  hardest  loss  of  the  sea- 
son to  the  number  one  ranked  team  in  the  state — the 
Monticello  Sages.  The  game  went  into  overtime  and  the 
Sages  scored  a touchdown,  but  their  extra  point  was 
blocked.  On  the  Maroon  possession,  they  moved  the  ball 
to  the  half  yard  line.  On  the  next  two  plays,  the  Maroons 
and  their  fans  were  confident  that  they  had  crossed  the 
goal,  but  the  officials  saw  it  differently.  This  was  one 
game  that  the  Maroons  proved  they  could  play  with  the 
best.  A special  thanks  goes  to  the  following  seniors:  Jared 
Anderson,  Jason  Drake,  Tad  Baird,  Ryan  Archey,  Doug 
Bostwick,  Mike  Doggett,  Bryce  McCleary,  Brian  Peavler, 
Rich  Rybolt,  and  Jon  Taylor. 


The  Maroons  prepare  for  battle. 


Football  63 


The  linksters  of  1 99 1 finished  the 
year  with  a record  of  14  wins  and 
5 losses.  This  gave  Coach  Burger 
his  fifth  winning  season  in  the  last 
six  years,  highlighted  by  a second 
place  finish  in  the  first  Okaw  Con- 
ference Tournament.  This  year’s 
squad  was  led  by  junior,  MVP  Ray 
Stroup,  who  averaged  41.5  strokes 
per  match.  Ray  finished  12th  in  Re- 
gional and  1st  in  Sectionals,  be- 
coming only  the  second  Clinton 
golfer  to  be  a medalist  in  a Sec- 
tional Tournament.  Ray  finished 
34th  in  the  two  day  State  Final  held 
at  the  Danville  Elks  Course.  This 
appearance  at  a State  Final  was  the 
fifth  time  that  Clinton  was  repre- 
sented in  the  finals.  The  JV  squad, 
coached  by  Dave  Hinton,  posted  an 
impressive  1 3-6  record. 


\ 


Nice  shots.  Brad. 


64  Sports 


Will  turns  it  on. 


At  the  start,  Joe  is  in  the  lead. 


The  1991  Boys’  Cross  Country 
team  had  only  one  returning  letter- 
man,  Joe  Alexander.  He  was  the 
Okaw  Conference  Champion, 
placed  eighth  in  sectionals,  thir- 
teenth in  state,  and  finished  in  all 
state.  The  two  injuries  of  the  run- 
ners in  the  top  five  hurt  the  team. 
The  team  was  young  and  inexpe- 
rienced, but  they  placed  second  in 
the  Okaw  Conference  and  sixth  at 
Regionals,  missing  qualifying  for 
sectionals  by  one  point.  This  year, 
the  Most  Improved  award  went  to 
William  Lacroix.  The  Girls’  Cross 
Country  team  began  the  season  with 
seven  girls  and  ended  with  four. 
Those  ending  the  season  were  two 
juniors  and  two  freshmen.  Unfor- 
tunately, the  girls  needed  five  run- 
ners to  score  as  a team,  but  they 
worked  and  competed  hard.  Heath- 
er Wise,  a freshman,  qualified  for 
state  and  finished  seventy-fourth. 
Heather  also  went  home  with  the 
Most  Improved  award. 


Sports  65 


Tricia  gets  ready  to  bump  one  up.  Bev  serves  one  up. 


66  Sports 


The  Maroons  get  ready  to  return  one. 


The  Lady  Maroons  volleyball  team  finished  the  sea- 
son with  a record  of  21-9,  their  second  straight  20  plus 
winning  season  and  the  first  time  ever  to  have  a back- 
to-back  20  plus  winning  season.  They  finished  8-2  in 
the  Okaw  Valley  Conference  and  gained  second  place. 
They  defeated  Maroa  in  the  championship  of  regionals 
by  the  scores  of  1-5,  15-4,  and  15-2.  After  defeating 
Hoopeston-East  Lynn,  ranked  16th  in  state,  the  team 
recorded  the  first  ever  sectional  win  in  girls’  athletics. 
They  finished  second  in  the  Delavan  Tournament,  tied 
for  first  in  the  Rantoul  Tournament,  and  reached 
semifinals  in  the  Clinton  Classic.  The  award  winners 
this  year  were  Melissa  Peters,  Best  Serving  Percentage 
(99.6%,  a school  record);  Tricia  Lowrey,  Best  Passing 
Percentage;  Stacy  Newberry,  Most  Kill  Assists  (439,  a 
school  record);  Natalie  Sams,  Most  Attack  Kills;  Sara 
Davenport,  Most  Stuff  Blocks  (59,  a school  record); 
and  Tracy  Roberts,  Most  Improved.  The  season  had 
several  peaks  and  valleys,  but  it  is  to  the  credit  of  the 
team  that  we  never  saw  them  quit  on  the  court. 


Melissa  goes  to  the  floor. 


Sports  67 


Which  one  of  the  Torbert  twins9  Don’t  look  so  excited,  Denise!  Getting  ready  for  Homecoming. 


The  91-92  cheerleaders  had  a busy  year  keeping  spir- 
it going.  At  camp,  both  squads  placed  second  in  the 
chant  competition.  The  new  year  began  with  the  Ma- 
roon and  Gold  game  and  a new  fall  sponsor,  Christy 
Pruser.  For  Homecoming,  they  made  signs  to  put  on 
all  the  athletes’  mailboxes,  and  provided  breakfast  for 
the  football  team  the  morning  of  the  game.  For  the 
basketball  season.  Winter  Sponsor,  Mrs.  Werts,  brought 
many  new  ideas  with  her.  The  pep  club  was  re-estab- 
lished and  the  Spirit  Team,  a group  of  five  guys,  was 
started.  The  Spirit  Team  helped  with  stunts  and  floor 
cheers  and  were  appreciated  by  the  cheerleaders.  In 
February,  the  girls  held  their  annual  Kiddie  Klinic. 

The  season  ended  with  a trip  to  Jumer’s  and  Stage  2 
in  Peoria. 

J.V.  Cheerleaders  are  just  a little  nuts. 


68  Sports 


The  high  school  and  jr.  high  get  their  act  together. 


The  “M”  Squad  is  just  happy  to  be  here. 


Getting  involved  with  the  school  spirit  was  no  prob- 
lem for  the  Clinton  “M”  Squad.  The  captain,  Kristi 
Helton;  co-captain,  Sherry  Arnold;  secretary,  Jennifer 
Maxwell;  and  activity  director.  Summer  Kelley;  helped 
the  coaches,  Clarene  Arnold  and  Loretta  Rogers,  to 
make  the  1991-92  season  a successful  and  daring  one. 
Their  goal  was  to  assist  in  giving  the  school  spirit  a 
boost.  At  the  Homecoming  Parade,  they  rode  specially 
built  bicycles  for  two  made  by  Lloyd  Weiss;  during 
home  football  games,  they  had  a balloon  launch  during 
kickoff;  and  for  the  sports,  they  supplied  each  of  the 
varsity  players  and  coaches  with  a special  treat  during 
their  lunch  shifts.  The  back-to-school  dance  was  their 
first  school-sponsored  event  for  the  student  body.  The 
squad  greeted  the  Winter  Sports  Preview  in  great  style 
with  a special  routine  done  in  the  athletes’  honor.  From 
dancing  out  of  a jukebox  to  dressing  up  as  Ninja  Tur- 
tles, the  “M”  Squad  entertained  the  crowd  well.  At  the 
end  of  each  season,  awards  are  given  to  the  Most  Val- 
uable, Most  Improved,  100%  Performance,  and  Best 
Choreographer  (teacher).  They  received  first  place  and 
a trophy  at  the  U-High  Regional  Competition  in  the 
Novelty  and  scored  higher  than  last  year  in  the  Pom 
category.  At  Jacksonville  Regional  Competition,  they 
qualified  for  state  in  the  Novelty  category  and  went 
on  to  become  State  Champions.  The  “M”  Squad  would 
like  to  thank  all  those  who  supported  them  this  year. 


Pom  pons  perform  at  the  half. 


Sports  69 


Brian  Peavler  gets  ready  to  roll  his  opponent. 


Doug  Hammer  takes  control. 


The  1991-92  junior  varsity  wrestling  squad  finished 
the  dual  meet  season  with  a record  of  seventeen  wins 
and  two  losses.  The  young  Maroons  competed  in  several 
tournaments,  winning  two  of  them,  Olympia  Frosh-Soph, 
and  Catlin  Frosh-Soph.  Coach  Queer  thought  the  J.V. 
wrestlers  did  an  outstanding  job  all  year. 


Kris  Karr  goes  for  the  pin. 


Roger  takes  care  of  his  opponent. 


70  Wrestling 


James  Barry  goes  for  the  escape. 


Doug  prepares  for  a reversal. 

The  Varsity  wrestling  team  spent  another  year  in  the 
top  ten  ranking.  At  one  point  they  were  ranked  as  high 
as  fourth  in  the  state.  The  Maroon  grapplers  finished 
their  fourth  consecutive  20  win  season  with  a final  dual 
meet  record  of  20  wins  and  3 losses.  While  Clinton  was 
rolling  through  their  dual  meets,  they  were  also  winning 
tournaments.  Their  victories  included  the  Tremont 
Tournament,  Gibson  City  Tournament,  and  the  Okaw 
Conference  title.  The  grapplers  also  saw  many  outstand- 
ing individual  performances.  Eight  wrestlers  qualified  for 
the  state  sectional  meet.  These  eight  wrestlers  were  Dan 
Hendrix,  Josh  Decker,  Jim  Blue,  Kris  Karr,  Pat  Costa, 
Matt  Baker,  and  Russell  Foehr.  Four  of  these  wrestlers 
went  on  to  compete  at  the  STATE  FINALS.  Josh  Deck- 
er, Kris  Karr,  Pat  Costa,  and  Russell  Foehr  were  also 
honored  by  being  named  Chuck  Maddox  Award  Win- 
ners (Central  Illinois  All-Star  Team).  Coach  Nagel  was 
very  pleased  with  his  young  Maroons  and  honored  to 
work  with  the  senior  James  Barry,  Kris  Karr,  Pat  Costa, 
Brian  Peavler,  Will  Conaty,  Marshall  Canfield,  and  Mike 
Hendriex. 


Brian  takes  control. 


Wrestling  71 


Scotty  Koritz  goes  for  a rebound. 


The  1991-92  boy’s  basketball  team  had  a 5-22  rec- 
ord. The  team  had  many  injuries,  more  injuries  than 
Coach  Ray  Bergles  thought  possible.  Terry  Dodds, 
Shilo  Rogers,  Ben  Nichols,  Josh  Rich  and  Brad  Gor- 
don missed  games  due  to  injuries.  These  impairments 
occurred  mostly  at  the  beginning  of  the  year.  The  teams 
that  CCHS  defeated  this  year  included  Flanagan,  De- 
land-Weldon,  and  Riverton.  The  lowlight  of  the  sea- 
son, according  to  Coach  Bergles,  was  the  night  of  De- 
cember 17.  That  night,  the  Maroons  held  an  eight- 
point  lead  against  Mount  Pulaski  entering  the  fourth 
quarter,  before  losing  by  1 8.  The  score  was  63-45.  At 
regionals,  the  team  played  very  well.  “I  was  very  pleased 
because  we  played  the  way  I thought  we  were  capable 
of  playing  on  offense  and  defense”  stated  Bergles.  Ben 
Nichols  led  the  team  in  field  goals  made,  field  goals 
attempted,  shooting  percentage,  points,  and  average. 
The  five  departing  seniors  this  year  are  Scott  Koritz, 
Ryan  Archey,  Tad  Baird,  Terry  Dodds,  and  Brad  Gor- 
don. 


Brad  Gordon  looks  for  two. 


72  Basketball 


Shilo  Rogers  eyes  the  basket.  Ray  shows  why  he  was  IN  THE  HALL. 


Basketball  73 


Lookin'  for  the  rebound. 


Tracy  follows  her  shot. 


JV  scores  again. 


74  Sports 


The  1991-92  Lady  Maroons’  Basketball  team  fin- 
ished with  an  overall  record  of  1 1 wins  and  1 7 losses. 
The  Lady  Maroons’  final  loss  came  at  the  hands  of 
Heyworth  in  the  Regional  Championship  game. 
Stacy  Newberry  led  the  team  in  nearly  all  statistical 
categories  including  scoring,  rebounding,  field  goal 
percent,  free  throw  percent,  steals,  and  assists.  The 
1991-92  season  was  the  last  for  seniors  Tricia  Low- 
rey,  Stacy  Newberry,  and  Natalie  Sams.  The  loss  of 
these  three  leaves  not  only  three  starting  positions 
open,  but  leaves  the  Lady  Maroons  with  a loss  of 
leadership  as  well.  Next  year’s  team  looks  to  be  a 
young  one,  and  Coach  Olson  looks  forward  to  the 
challenge  of  a new  year. 


Natalie  puts  it  up. 


The  Maroons  take  the  position. 


Clinton  has  the  lead  at  the  half. 


Sports  75 


Lisa  throws  to  first. 


The  Clinton  Softball  Team  had  a rough  season  this 
year.  However,  even  though  the  overall  record  added 
up  to  7-14,  the  girls  have  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of 
and  should  definitely  not  hang  their  heads.  The  Varsity 
Softball  team  consisted  of  Stephanie  Beadles,  Tricia 
Lowrey,  Carin  Hoye,  Tari  Winchell,  Nikki  West,  Lisa 
Goodwin,  Summer  Kelley,  Tracey  Kress,  Heather 
Wooldridge,  Candace  Blessing.  Amie  Torbert,  Angie 
Zieman,  Sara  Leimbach,  Jamie  Torbert,  Kristy  Evans, 
Shallon  Gyuran,  Sara  Martin,  Wendy  Rossio,  and  Sara 
Nunnery.  The  Lady  Maroons  ended  with  a 4-2  record 
in  the  Okaw  Conference,  losing  two  tough  games  to 
Warrensburg.  The  season  ended  with  a very  sad  loss 
to  Blue  Ridge  in  the  Regionals.  Clinton  lost  10-11  in 
the  seventh  inning;  however,  they  went  away  from  the 
game  knowing  that  they  gave  it  their  best  shot. 


Tricia  eyes  the  pitch. 


76  Softball 


The  Maroons  protect  the  hot  corner. 


The  1992  Clinton  Maroons’  baseball  team  had  an 
up  and  down  season.  After  getting  off  to  a great  start, 
the  Maroons  dropped  under  .500  with  an  8-9  record. 
They  then  started  playing  well  again  and  were  14-11 
with  regionals  starting. 

The  Maroons,  who  in  the  beginning  set  goals  for  a 
conference  title,  finished  7-3  and  were  Okaw  Confer- 
ence champions.  “When  we  were  2-3  everybody  kinda 
thought  we  wouldn’t  do  it.  Then  we  started  playing 
well  again,  and  we  ended  up  winning  it.  It  was  real 
nice  to  finally  win  the  conference,”  said  Maroons  out- 
fielder and  pitcher,  Doug  Bostwick.  Doug,  who  batted 
over  .320  for  the  season,  was  one  of  the  leaders  of  the 
team  along  with  Jeff  Mannix.  “Jeff  made  some  terrific 
plays  in  the  outfield  and  got  some  key  hits  for  us.  He 
really  helped  us  out  this  year.” 


Jeff  takes  one  downtown. 


Baseball  77 


Shane  Mills  and  Will  Daniels  compete  in  the  hurdles. 


78  Track 


Mr.  Clark  yells  out  the  game  plan. 


Brooke  Bostwick  gets  ready  for  another  win. 


The  boys’  track  team  did  not  win  as  many  meets  as 
it  has  in  the  past,  but  the  boys  still  did  well.  The  team 
was  fairly  new  this  year,  having  very  few  seniors  and 
quite  a few  freshmen.  Although  the  team  was  not  as 
experienced  as  it  has  been,  the  underclassmen  showed 
that  they  could  hold  their  own  when  they  took  first  at 
the  Frosh/Soph  Monticello  Invitational. 

Tad  Baird,  Marshall  Canfield,  Rich  Rybolt,  Ryan 
Connelly,  and  Sean  Kelly  competed  in  the  400  and 
800  meter  relays  at  the  state  track  meet;  Tad  Baird, 
Joe  Alexander,  Will  Daniels,  Scott  Koritz,  and  Mar- 
shall Canfield  competed  in  the  1600  meter  relay.  Joe 
Alexander  also  competed  in  the  1600  meter  run. 

On  the  girls’  side,  Natalie  Sams,  Heather  Wise,  and 
Sara  Davenport  all  helped  score  the  majority  of  the 
points  in  the  bigger  meets.  The  team,  which  was  also 
fairly  new,  still  showed  that  they  were  not  a force  to 
be  tampered  with.  The  team  had  ten  freshmen,  more 
underclassmen  than  they  have  had  in  many  years.  All 
in  all  the  girls’  team  did  well  for  the  year.  Natalie  Sams 
was  the  only  girl  to  go  on  to  the  state  meet,  where  she 
competed  in  the  long  jump. 


Track  79 


Douglas  Clark 
Charles  Oleson 


Joel  Gregory 
Richard  Williamson 


Rachel  Taylor 
Rick  Hamblen 


Patrick  Keane 
Holly  Hughes 


Toby  Pister 
William  Weidner 


Heather  Hughes 
Deborah  Sizemore 


What  could  be  going  through  Josh  Rich’s 
mind? 


Above — Junior  Class  Officers:  Wendy  Conn,  co-secretary;  Jill  Harris,  co-sec- 
retary; Heather  Wooldridge,  treasurer;  Tracy  Roberts,  president;  and  Leslie 
Hunt,  vice-president. 


80 


Jonathon  Hale 
Joshua  Rich 


FINAL  STEP  . . . 

This  has  been  a very  eventful  year  for  the  class  of  1 993. 
Aside  from  Homecoming  activities,  sports,  extracurricular 
activities,  and  academics,  it  was  the  juniors'  turn  to  fund 
the  prom. 

The  juniors  were  extremely  pleased  to  do  this.  All  to- 
gether, they  raised  over  $800  toward  the  prom  budget. 

There  were  many  juniors  that  were  given  special  honors. 
Among  them  were  Erica  Peck  for  her  quest  to  always  im- 
prove and  Sa villa  Joss  for  winning  the  Dynamic  Duo  Award. 

The  class  of  1993  is  finally  ready  for  the  “Final  Step”  of 
High  School being  seniors! 


James  White 
Heather  Wooldridge 


Jennifer  Dcfebaugh 
Ryan  Holt 


Jennifer  Underwood 
Aaron  Friesland 


81 


Tim  Winstead 
Anthony  Riegel 
Tony  Bates 
Tricia  Tuggle 
Jason  Fairfield 
Joseph  Alexander 


Chad  Sampson 
Jennifer  Schottel 
Jill  Hickerson 
Joseph  Utter 
William  Daniels 
Chris  Hammer 


Tracey  Kress 
Eric  Sessions 
Jennifer  Gutierrez 
David  Cooper 
Richard  Tennison 
Jeffrey  Byrd 


Andrea  Glenn 
Jill  Courtright 
Brad  Cutright 
Patricia  Thoms 
Brian  Powers 
Christy  Bauersachs 


Maria  Hansen 
Ronnie  Thoms 
Ryan  West 
Matthew  Baker 
Leslie  Hunt 
Jill  Harris 


Jared  Callison 
Erica  Peck 
Stephanie  Purkes 
Sherrie  Brown 
Kimberly  Best 
Renee  Clark 


Amber  Powless 
Shawn  Conn 
Savilla  Joss 
Brian  Cooper 
Christina  Duncan 
Travis  Dulany 


Vicky  Welch 
Andrew  Goodmon 
Melissa  Peters 
Tracy  Shannon 
Jeffrey  Mannix 
Jason  Gentry 


Matt  Lisk 
Courtney  Webb 
Heather  Day 
Roger  Scott 
Angela  Basham 
Kiesha  Ridenour 


Valerie  Ingram 
Deborah  Scoles 
Tiffany  Stapleton 
Brian  Ewing 
Shilo  Rogers 
Doug  Mearida 


Janette  Mansell 
Candace  Blessing 
Stephanie  Bezier 
Katina  Harmon 
Nicole  Karr 
Laura  Moefield 


Amy  Wheeler 
Matthew 
Leimbach 
Darcie  Webb 
Carey  Mills 
Todd  Dahler 
Anita  White 


Summer  Kelley 
Michelle  Daneker 
Terry  Potts 
Ray  Stroup 
Valerie  Arteman 
Joel  Mansell 


; ft' 
> 


JUn. 


Wendy  Conn 
Dukain  Manning 
Ben  Lowers 
Lea  Shepherd 
Bart  Harris 
Matthew  Brady 


Gina  Ogle 
Nicholas  Buraglio 
Cynthia  Webb 
Stephanie  Bryan 
Eric  Sams 
Tim  McGhee 


Brian  Ashby 
Amy  Stephens 
Jimmy  Tanner 
Steve  Lash 
Chastity  Clymer 
Russell  Foehr 


Sherry  Arnold 
Dyan  Shepherd 
Amy  Mathias 
Jennifer  Griswold 
David  Waterhouse 
Crystal  Wells 


Greg  Geesaman 
Viipnia  Timmons 
Susan  Anderson 
Brandi  Spainhour 
Ronald  Condie 
Ronald  Huffman 


Bobbie  Bateson 
Daniel  Wilson 
Tari  Winchell 
Cathy  Trago 
Timothy 
Defebaugh 
Nikki  Smith 


Kristi  Powers 
Rebecca  Bloch 
Stephen  Sowers 
Phillip  Followell 
Rosamaria 
Lobano 
Kristen  Tilley 


Gregory  Mandrell 
Kimberly  Woollen 
William  Lehman 
Angela  Greenwood 
Stephanie 
Montross 
Mark  Michel 


Upper  left:  Jeff  Mannix  and  Mr.  Nagel 
relax  and  have  a good  time  in  the  gym 
after  their  P.E.  class.  Center  left:  Jon  Hale 
“hams  it  up”  for  the  camera,  as  usual. 
Center  right:  Kimberly  Woollen  tries  to 
show  us  her  better  side.  Right:  Savilla 
Joss  and  Rebecca  Bloch  try  to  act  out 
those  tough  Shakespeare  plays.  Far  right: 
Shilo  Rogers  “strikes  it  up”  for  the  rest 
of  the  student  body  at  the  Homecoming 
Dance. 


Our  Faculty 


Spanish  students  can’t  help  but  bring  a smile  to  Mrs.  Fry’s  face. 


Reliving  the  victories  of  the  Lady  Maroons’  Volleyball  team 
helps  Mr.  Diener  cope  with  first  hour  Geometry. 


Obviously,  Mr.  Strain  didn’t  face  any  problems  today;  he’s  still  able  Mr.  Bergles  always  has  something  to  say. 

to  smile. 


88  Faculty 


Mr.  Bauersachs  resorts  to  forcing  students  to  class. 


Miss  Olson  still  looks  great  after  basketball  practice.  Mr.  Lehman  lays  down  the  law  with  his  human  anatomy 

class. 


Faculty  89 


JAMES  ADCOCK,  earned 
his  B.S.  from  Eastern  Illi- 
nois University  and  his  M.S. 
from  Western  Illinois  Uni- 
versity. To  extend  his  intel- 
ligence, he  has  taken  and  is 
taking  several  classes  out- 
side of  the  time  he  spends 
teaching.  He  has  been  mar- 
ried for  27  years  and  has  a 
son,  Brian,  who  is  22.  Mr.  Adcock  chaperones  prom, 
has  been  named  Unit  District  #15  Teacher  of  the 
Year,  and  Soldier  of  the  Year  presented  by  the 
Tribune.  Every  Saturday  morning  for  25  years  he 
has  helped  with  the  junior  bowlers.  He  is  active  as 
the  vice-president  of  Monday  night  Men’s  Bowling 
Association  and  vice-president  of  the  Clinton  Youth 
Bowling  Association.  In  addition  to  these  activities, 
he  also  takes  part  in  hobbies  such  as  fishing,  bowl- 
ing, golfing,  working  in  the  yard,  and,  as  we  all 
know,  writing  poetry.  Mr.  Adcock  teaches  Amer- 
ican Literature  and  English. 


JOEL  WHITE— He  teaches 
physical  science  and  chemistry. 
Mr.  White  is  active  with  the  Jets 
team.  He  enjoys  amateur  ra- 
dio, also. 


GEORGE  WYLDER— He 
teaches  geometry.  Math  IV,  Al- 
gebra I,  and  calculus.  He  also 
helps  out  with  graduation.  He 
is  a member  of  the  DeWitt 
County  Geneological  Society. 


BRIAN  KNUTSON— He 
teaches  physical  education.  Mr. 
Knutson  also  coaches  sopho- 
more and  varsity  football.  He 
likes  to  play  golf  and  is  active 
in  the  Decatur  Area  High 
School  Football  Association. 


SANDRA  LAFFEY— She  teach- 
es French  and  Spanish.  Mrs.  Laf- 
fey  also  sponsors  the  Foreign  Lan- 
guage Club.  She  also  likes  to  read, 
cross-stitch,  bicycle,  and  travel 
throughout  the  world  in  her  free 
time. 


I 

CHARLES  LEHMAN  — He 
teaches  Biology  I and  human 
anatomy  and  physiology. 


JAMES  MONROE— He  teaches 
chemistry  and  general  science.  Mr. 
Monroe  is  also  involved  with  The 
Illinois  Association  of  Chemistry 
Teachers,  Bike  Club,  and  church 
choir. 


CLARENE  ARNOLD 
earned  her  teaching  cer- 
tificate from  Western  Il- 
linois University.  She 
teaches  consumer  math, 
consumer  law,  clothing, 
and  consumer  education. 
She  has  taken  classes  out- 
side of  school  in  Euro- 
pean Fitting  and  com- 
puters. She  has  been  married  for  19  years  and 
has  two  children.  Sherry  and  Sam.  Mrs.  Arnold 
helps  out  with  the  senior  class,  the  M-Squad, 
and  FHA.  She  enjoys  bridge,  golf,  reading,  and 
lawn  work.  She  participates  in  the  Bridge  Club, 
is  a 4-H  leader,  has  served  as  president  of  the 
Junior  Women’s  Chapter,  and  is  a member  of 
the  Positive  Youth  Development  Committee. 


90  Faculty 


KATHY  SHELTON  earned 
her  Bachelor’s  Degree  in 
English  Secondary  Educa- 
tion and  her  Master’s  De- 
gree in  Counseling  from  Il- 
linois State  University.  She 
plans  to  enter  a Ph.D.  pro- 
gram this  summer  at  the 
University  of  Illinois.  She 
has  taken  various  work- 
shops and  classes  at  Sangamon  State  University 
mainly  in  the  field  of  counseling.  She  has  been 
married  for  19  years  and  has  two  children,  Amy 
and  Brad.  She  sponsors  the  Interact  Club.  Mrs. 
Shelton  enjoys  swimming,  dancing,  low  impact 
aerobics,  beach  combing,  reading,  writing,  baking, 
and  being  with  her  family.  She  also  likes  to  attend 
Cub  games  at  Wrigley  field  and  the  athletic  games 
that  her  children  are  involved  in. 


BETTY  KLINE— She  teaches 
Biology  I and  II.  Mrs.  Kline  has 
published  a DNA-RNA  Pro- 
tein Synthesis  Kit  and  has  re- 
ceived the  DARE  Conserva- 
tion Award.  She  is  also  an  hon- 
orary FFA  Farmer. 


ROBERT  MUNDS— He 
teaches  computer  program- 
ming and  tech  math.  Mr. 
Munds’  hobbies  include  aero- 
bics, bicycling,  and  hiking.  He 
is  a member  of  the  Clinton  Ar- 
ea Cyclers  and  the  Weldon 
Springs  Foundation. 


JEFF  BURGER — He  teaches 
welding,  orientation  technolo- 
gy, and  C.A.M.  Mr.  Burger 
helps  out  with  golf  and  the  bas- 
ketball tournament.  His  hob- 
bies include  golf,  camping,  and 
fishing. 


MIKE  CLARK— He  teaches 
physical  education  and  driver’s 
education.  Mr.  Clark  coaches 
cross-country,  basketball,  and 
track.  He  enjoys  golf,  jogging,  and 
basketball. 


STEVEN  CORS— He  teaches 
Math  I,  and  Algebra  I and  II.  Mr. 
Cors  is  the  sponsor  of  the  Class  of 
’93  and  head  coach  of  the  girls’ 
track  team. 


CAROL  DAVENPORT— She 
teaches  mythology,  spelling/ 
grammar/vocabulary,  and  Eng- 
lish 10B.  Mrs.  Davenport  is  the 
sponsor  of  the  Class  of ’94.  She  is 
a member  in  PEO. 


DORIS  WUNDER- 
LICH earned  her  M.S. 
from  Southern  Illinois 
University.  She  took 
computer  classes  this 
summer  and  tax  classes 
second  semester.  She  has 
been  married  for  32  years 
and  has  two  children,  Gi- 
gi  and  Jay.  Mrs.  Wun- 
derlich helps  out  with  yearbook,  NHS,  and  the 
newspaper.  She  enjoys  collecting  honey  pots,  de- 
pression glass,  crackle  glass,  and  stamps,  and 
hunting  for  antiques  with  her  husband.  She  is 
involved  in  organizations  associated  with  honey 
production  and  depression  glass.  She  is  a mem- 
ber of  the  Lutheran  Church,  Illinois  Association 
of  Teachers  of  English,  and  NCTE.  Mrs.  Wun- 
derlich teaches  journalism  and  desktop  publish- 
ing, English  9H,  10H,  9B,  and  yearbook. 


Faculty  91 


MICHAEL  BRYANT— He 
teaches  art  classes.  Mr.  Bryant 
is  advisor  to  the  Student  Coun- 
cil and  Art  Club.  He  was  Clin- 
ton Education  Association  vi- 
ce-president and  1986  nominee 
for  Teacher  of  the  Year. 


LARRY  TEMPLETON— He 
teaches  CWT  I and  CWT  II. 
Mr.  Templeton  enjoys  snow 
skiing,  water  siding,  golf,  and 
tennis.  While  attending  high 
school,  he  was  All-League 
Shortstop  in  baseball. 


KAY  TENNILL— She  teaches 
advanced  chorus  and  mixed 
chorus.  Mrs.  Tennill  helps  out 
with  the  Barbershop  Quartet. 
She  also  enjoys  reading  and 
quilting. 


0 STUART  COON— He  is  the 
guidance  counselor  at  Clinton 
High  School.  Mr.  Coon  enjoys 
panning,  attending  plays,  spend- 
ing time  with  friends,  traveling, 
and  being  with  his  family. 

i 

STEVEN  ZARTLER— He  teach- 
es sociology,  world  geography,  and 
American  History.  Mr.  Zartler 
sponsors  S.A.D.D.  He  enjoys 
traveling,  snow  and  water  slaing, 
reading,  working  out,  and  golf. 


KAY  WERTS— She  teaches 
physical  education.  Mrs.  Werts 
sponsors  Flag  Corps,  Pep  Club, 
winter  cheerleading,  and  spirit 
team.  She  enjoys  working  with  her 
farm  animals,  especially  the  ba- 
bies. 


92  Faculty 


PAULA  NELSON 
earned  her  Associate  Ad- 
ministrative Assistants 
Degree  from  Southern  Il- 
linois University  and  her 
Masters  in  Education 
Administration  from 
Eastern  Illinois  Univer- 
sity. She  teaches  a num- 
ber of  business  classes. 
She  takes  computer  classes  every  summer  and 
attends  workshops  when  possible.  She  also  at- 
tended a Cooperative  Learning  class  over  the 
summer.  She  has  been  married  for  6 years.  She 
enjoys  golf,  reading,  and  horseback  riding.  Out- 
side of  school,  she  participates  in  M.I.C.E.  ( Mid- 
Illinois  Computing  Educators),  IBM  users  group, 
and  CBIEA  (Central  Illinois  Business  Educators 
Association).  Mrs.  Nelson  and  her  husband  also 
started  their  own  business.  Nelson  Backhoe 
Service;  and  she  says  that  it  takes  up  a lot  of 
her  time. 


RAY  BERGLES  earned  his 
Teaching  Certificate  from 
DePaul  University.  He 
teaches  American  History, 
government,  and  econom- 
ics. He  has  taken  classes  out- 
side of  school  and  is  a grad- 
uate student  in  Curriculum 
and  Instruction.  He  has  been 
married  for  4 and  a half 
years  and  has  two  children,  Joey  and  Jay.  Mr.  Ber- 
gles  helps  out  with  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  and  is  the  var- 
sity basketball  coach.  He  enjoys  reading  and  home 
improvement.  He  is  also  involved  in  church-re- 
lated activities. 


DARRELL  MC  KINZEY  is 
a janitor  at  the  high  school. 
He  has  been  married  for  20 
years  and  has  two  children, 
Wendy  and  Jason.  He  en- 
joys coin  collecting,  antique 
bottles,  making  wood  and 
craft  items,  collecting  fossils, 
and  restoring  wood  furni- 
ture. During  school,  Mr. 
McKinzey  helps  out  with  anything  that  needs 
maintenance  or  custodian  assistance  at  any  time. 
Outside  of  school,  he  is  a member  of  the  First 
Christian  Church,  and  has  taught  4th  grade  Sunday 
School  and  Sunday  night  youth  group  for  several 
years,  and  is  a Deacon  of  the  church. 


KARL  DIENER— He  teaches 
geometry  and  Intro  to  Algebra 
1.  Mr.  Diener  coaches  girls’  high 
school  and  junior  high  volley- 
ball teams.  His  hobbies  include 
reading,  sports,  and  bicycling. 


DEAN  ADAMS— He  teaches 
auto  mechanics  and  conserva- 
tion. Mr.  Adams  is  the  sponsor 
of  the  Auto  Mechanics  Club. 


SHIRLEY  HELDS— She  is  the 
librarian  at  Clinton  High 
School.  Mrs.  Fields’  hobbies 
include  stitchery,  reading, 
walking,  and  spending  time 
with  her  grandchildren. 


D.  ANN  JONES— She  teaches 
theatre  arts  and  speech.  Mrs.  Jones 
is  the  sponsor  of  Thespians  and 
manager  of  the  auditorium  crews. 
She  was  the  director  of  the  1990 
All-State  production  of  “The 
Wiz.” 


SUSAN  DULING— She 
teaches  Math  I and  II,  Ameri- 
can History,  and  government. 
Mrs.  Duling  is  a member  of  the 
Beta  Sigma  Phi  Sorority. 


DORIS  TRENT — She  teaches 
Algebra  I,  Intro  to  Algebra  II,  and 
Algebra  II. 


DOLORES  FRY— She  teach- 
es modem  history,  ancient  his- 
tory, and  Spanish  I.  Mrs.  Fry 
was  honored  as  I MSA  teacher 
and  appeared  in  the  PRO 
Teacher  publication  in  Decem- 
ber 1991  issue. 


BUD  BLESSING— He  teaches 
CAM,  CAD,  and  drafting.  Mr. 
Blessing  enjoys  fishing,  golfing, 
and  hunting. 


JAN  HOGAN — She  teaches 
Foods  I and  child  develop- 
ment. 


Faculty  93 


BRAD  K.IICK — He  teaches 
English  9C,  IOC,  11C,  science 
fiction,  and  world  geography.  Mr. 
Kiick  has  been  a class  sponsor 
for  10  years.  His  hobbies  include 
running,  fishing,  and  camping. 


AMY  OLSON— She  teaches 
physical  education.  Ms.  Ol- 
son helps  with  volleyball  and 
coaches  girls’  basketball.  She 
enjoys  softball,  basketball,  and 
water  skiing. 


DONALD  PRATHER  — He 
teaches  introduction  to  agricul- 
tural science,  landscaping,  agri- 
culture science,  agriculture  busi- 
ness, and  agriculture  building. 
Mr.  Prather  sponsors  FFA. 


DOROTHY  RHODES— She 
teaches  business  classes.  Ms. 
Rhodes  is  involved  in  the 
Clinton  Business  and  Profes- 
sional Women’s  Club.  She  is 
also  the  assistant  softball 
coach  and  7th  grade  volley- 
ball coach. 


GALEN  STRAIN — He  teaches 
Br-  •'-TOpHf  photography,  general  science,  in- 
troduction  to  Algebra  I,  and 
physics.  Mr.  Strain  helps  out  with 
* m*  Scholastic  Bowl  and  anyone  who 
m $|l  needs  AV  equipment. 


DENNIS  STREIGHT — He 
teaches  band  and  cadet  band. 
Mr.  Streight  is  active  with  jazz 
band,  concert  band,  marching 
band,  pep  band,  and  flag 
corps.  He  enjoys  fishing  and 
traveling. 


PAT  ALLISON — She  teaches 
business  classes.  Mrs.  Allison 
sponsors  the  Super  Secretaries 
club.  She  enjoys  painting,  read- 
ing, and  traveling. 


BILLIEMARIE  MONTS— 
She  teaches  research,  short 
stories  & poetry,  and  English 
9A. 


GEORGE  WILLIAMS— He 
teaches  biology  and  driver’s  ed- 
ucation. 


CHARLES  NAGEL— He 
teaches  health  and  physical 
education.  Mr.  Nagel  coaches 
wrestling. 


ALVIN  AUSTIN— He  teaches 
physical  education.  Mr.  Austin 
is  the  girls’  softball  coach. 


94  Faculty 


In  Review  1991-1992 


Superintendent:  Mr.  Gary  Archey 


Secretaries:  Peggy  Newman  and  Linda  Robinson 


School  Board  Members:  Stephen  Tuggle,  Richard  Howell,  Ruth  Lowers.  Row  2:  Laura 
Adcock,  Dan  Holland,  Tim  Donovan,  and  Fred  Crutchfield. 


Certainly  that  youthful  face  couldn’t  be 
that  of  a man  who  just  retired.  Yet,  that  is 
the  case.  Max  Stites,  the  Business  Manager 
of  Clinton  Community  School  District  Unit 
#15  for  the  past  26  years,  balanced  his  ac- 
counts and  turned  in  his  pens.  Max  has  not 
only  kept  the  school  in  the  ’’black”  and  en- 
deared himself  to  his  fellow  workers,  he  has 
also  supported  the  YMCA,  the  IASBO,  the 
Kiwanis  Club,  and  the  Methodist  Church. 

Max  looks  forward  to  some  well-deserved 
golf  and  travel  during  his  retirement.  His 
wife,  Dorisann,  his  sons  Reggie  and  Max, 
and  his  four  grandchildren  will  certainly  ap- 
preciate having  him  around  Vi  Green,  who 
nominated  Max  for  the  ABWA’s  “Boss  of 
the  Year”  in  1978,  described  him  as  “not 
perfect;  he’s  one  of  the  human  race.”  He  was 
a winner  in  1978,  and  he’s  a winner  now. 


Vi  Green,  Business  Manager  Max  Stites,  and 
Sharon  Miller. 


Faculty  95 


Keeping  up  with  the  Times 


Principal:  Mr.  Jerry  Bauersachs 


Athletic  Director:  Mr.  Ronald  Goodwin 


Assistant  Principal:  Mr.  Ed  Byrd 


CCHS  Accomplishments  for  1991-1992: 

— Replaced  lights  on  the  football  field. 

— Improved  the  lighting  around  the  school. 
— Renovated  the  common’s  restrooms. 

— Added  a center  speaker  to  the  gymnasium. 
— Replaced  front  entrance  doors. 

— Added  cable  t.v.  to  several  rooms. 

— Purchased  new  tables  for  the  commons. 

— Sided  and  stained  the  concession  stand. 

— Repaired  the  drive  around  the  school. 

— Added  a third  IBM  computer  lab. 


Mr.  Byrd  wanders  the  halls  in  search  of  passes. 


96  Faculty 


The  Ties  that  Bind  it  all  Together 


Secretaries:  Joan  Lewis,  Merla  Hickerson,  Arlene  Hoffman,  Marsha  Roesch,  and  Mary  Wilkinson. 


Faculty  97 


Cooks:  Ginny  Carter,  Rose  Ellrick,  Mary  Jo  Willits,  and  Lucille  Heinrich.  Row  2:  Emma  Rempe,  Martha  Underwood,  Linda  Wheeler, 
Adele  Lechner,  and  Irene  Honecker. 


Custodians-Front  row:  Mike  Nunnery,  Tom  Bundy,  and  Darrell  McKinzey.  Row  2:  Richard 
Hunt  and  Lyle  Swearingen. 


A familiar  face — Rex  Blue. 


Richard  Hunt 


Tom  Bundy 


98  Faculty 


HOMECOMING  1991 


This  year’s  Homecoming  was  a total  success  for  all 
who  were  involved.  Although  there  was  no  bonfire  due 
to  weather  conditions,  most  activities  involved  a ma- 
jority of  the  student  body.  The  annual  class  contest 
during  spirit  week  was  a total  blast!  Monday  there  was 
no  school  in  session,  Tuesday  was  Sports  Day, 
Wednesday  was  Woodstock  Day,  Thursday  was  Hat 
and  Shades  Day,  and  Friday  was  Maroon  and  Gold 
Day.  Each  class  got  three  points  for  every  member  of 
the  class  that  was  dressed  for  spirit  week  that  day. 
Points  were  also  given  for  floats  in  the  parade. 

Many  floats  entered  the  parade.  Among  them  were 
the  Thespians,  Cross-Country,  F.H.A.,  and  football. 
The  parade  came  down  Center  Street  from  the  Junior 
High  and  then  went  around  the  square.  The  parade 
left  the  square  at  Main  Street.  The  sophomores  and 
freshmen  tied  for  first  in  the  parade,  so  their  classes 
each  got  thirty  points.  The  juniors  placed  second  and 
received  twenty  points.  The  seniors  came  in  last  and 
got  only  ten  points. 

For  showing  spirit  for  the  entire  week,  the  sopho- 
mores took  the  $200  first  place  prize  money  with  210 
points.  The  seniors  took  $100  into  their  account  with 
199  points  and  second  place.  The  juniors  received  $75 
for  their  182  points  and  third.  The  freshmen  came  in 
last  with  $50  and  1 17  points. 

Upper  right:  The  sophomore  float.  Center  right:  The  freshman  float. 
Lower  right:  The  senior  float.  Below:  The  junior  float. 

i 


100  Homecoming 


Left:  The  juniors  display  their  spirit  during 
spirit  week.  Center  left:  The  sophomores 
compete  in  spirit  week,  too.  Center  right: 
Frank  Russell  and  Gina  Short  are  dancing 
the  night  away!  Lower  left:  Stephanie  Bezier 
and  Malu  Garcia  are  in  the  parade.  Lower 
right:  Shilo  Rodgers  and  Mark  Polen  enjoy 
the  dance. 


Homecoming  101 


Upper  left:  Abby  Motsinger  is  crowned  1991  Homecoming  Queen.  Upper  right:  Jason 
Drake  is  crowned  1991  Homecoming  King.  Lower  left:  Jason  and  Abby  have  just 
made  their  grand  entrance  to  the  Homecoming  Dance.  Center:  Stephanie  Hager 
announces  our  royal  Homecoming  Court.  Lower  right:  Jason  and  Abby,  our  royal 
Homecoming  couple. 


102  Homecoming 


RUNNERS  UP 


Jennifer  Brown  and  Marshall  Canfield,  Bev  Natalie  Sams  and  Mike  Doggett,  Denise  Tricia  Lowery  and  Bryce  McCleary,  Amber 
Nannini  and  Max  Wollet,  Julie  Heap  and  Korneman  and  Ryan  Archey,  Kristi  Helton  Graves  and  Kris  Karr,  Shari  Brinkley  and 
Jason  Karr  and  Tad  Baird  Doug  Bostwick 


Homecoming  103 


WILEY  AND  THE  HAIRYMAN 


Wiley  and  the  Hairyman  is  about  a little  boy  named 
Wiley,  who  lives  in  the  swamp  with  his  Mammy  and 
his  dog.  Wiley  is  confronted  daily  by  a representation 
of  his  inner  fears.  Those  inner  fears  are  the  Hairyman. 
This  is  the  story  of  how  Wiley  faces,  fights,  and  con- 
quers his  fear  and  the  Hairyman. 

For  this  show,  the  Thespians  used  a relatively  small 
cast  of  only  eighteen  students.  Thirteen  of  those  stu- 
dents were  swamp  members  or  a “mobile”  part  of  the 
set,  as  they  became  tables,  chairs,  quick  sand,  and  oth- 
er parts  of  the  swamp.  They  were  Marshall  Canfield, 
Amy  Mathias,  Darcie  Webb,  Tim  Hilbrick,  Jacque 
Bray,  Tasha  Walston,  Amber  Graves,  Malu  Garcia, 
Jared  Callison,  Wendy  McKinzey,  Kristen  Tilley,  Kristi 
Helton,  and  Julie  Heap.  Of  those,  Kristi  and  Julie  were 
the  swamp  leaders,  or  the  dance  captains  of  the  swamp. 
Cary  Luttrell  was  cast  as  Wiley,  Shilo  Rogers  played 
Wiley’s  dog,  and  Jonathon  Hale  was  cast  as  the  Hair- 
yman. Rebekah  Imig  and  Rebecca  Bloch  took  turns 
playing  Wiley’s  Mammy. 

The  group  rehearsed  on  Monday,  Tuesday,  and 
Thursday  from  7 pm  until  about  9:30  pm.  The  final 
productions  were  given  on  November  15  and  16  at  8 
pm.  All  of  the  cast  agreed  that  they  really  grew  closer 
to  each  other  during  the  rehearsal  schedule  and  had  a 
lot  of  fun,  proving  that  the  fall  show  provides  great 
entertainment  for  the  public  and  a good  learning  ex- 
perience for  the  students  who  were  involved. 


Top:  Cary  Luttrell  (Wiley)  is  confronted  by  Jonathon  Hale  (Hairy- 
man) and  his  magic.  Center:  Jared  Callison,  a swamp  member,  be- 
comes a tree  in  the  bog.  Below:  The  entire  cast  of  WILEY  AND 
THE  HAIRYMAN. 


104  FALL  SHOW 


The  cast  and  crew  of  the  Spring  Musical  GREASE.  Students  at  Rydell  High  attend  the  annual  Prom. 


The  Greasers  get  loose,  cool,  and  really  hip  for  their  part  in  GREASE! 


GREASE  was  the  spring  musical 
that  Ms.  Jones  chose  for  the  Thespi- 
ans to  present  this  year.  The  students 
were  really  looking  forward  to  the 
opening  night  for  this  show. 

Josh  Rich  and  Kristi  Helton  were 
cast  as  the  lead  roles  for  GREASE. 
They  were  Danny  Zuko  and  Sandy 
Dumbrowski.  GREASE  is  a rockin’, 
hip-hopping  musical  about  students  at 
Rydell  High  School  in  1959. 

The  Thespians  did  four  perform- 
ances of  this  show.  The  first  was  for 
the  Junior  High  on  April  1,  at  9:00  am. 
The  other  three  were  on  April  3 and 
4 at  8:00  pm  and  April  5 at  2:30  pm. 

Two  of  the  Thespians’  friends  came 
back  to  help  with  this  production  of 
GREASE.  Eric  Weaver  and  Stuart 
Coon  donated  their  time  and  efforts, 
also.  GREASE  was  indeed  a great  suc- 
cess! 


Spring  Musical  105 


1992  CHS  Sweethearts 


To  celebrate  Valentine’s  Day,  Clinton  High  School 
holds  the  Sweetheart  Dance  each  year.  This  year  the 
Sweetheart  Dance  was  sponsored  by  the  Student 
Council.  Since  the  Student  Council’s  treasury  was 
overflowing  about  this  time,  they  did  not  charge  ad- 
mission to  the  dance.  Refreshments  in  the  way  of  soda 
and  cake  were  also  provided  by  the  Student  Council. 


Sweethearts  were  designated  by  popular  vote  from 
their  respective  classes.  Sweethearts  crowned  on  this 
occasion  were  Brooke  Bostwick,  freshman;  Amy  Tor- 
bert,  sophomore;  Rebecca  Bloch,  junior;  and  Stacy 
Newberry,  senior.  Music  for  the  coronation  was  sup- 
plied by  Amy  Stephens. 


106  Sweetheart  Dance 


FRESHMAN  CANDIDATES: 
Chastity  Clymer,  Christine  Her- 
rin, Brooke  Bostwick,  Mandy 
Spencer,  and  Beth  Maxwell. 


SOPHOMORE  CANDI- 
DATES: Melissa  Nelson,  Jen- 
ny Moore,  Jamie  Torbert,  Sara 
Connelly,  and  Emily  Conners. 


JUNIOR  CANDIDATES:  Dyan  Shepherd,  Rebecca  Bloch,  and  SENIOR  CANDIDATES:  Malu  Garcia,  Stephanie  Beadles,  Kristi 
Andrea  Glenn.  Helton,  and  Stacy  Newberry. 


Sweetheart  Dance  107 


Right:  Anthony  Riegel,  Bev  Nan- 
nini,  and  Tricia  Lowery  feel  the 
music. 

Below:  Heather  Wooldridge,  Tra- 
cy Roberts,  and  Wendy  Conn  an- 
nounced the  Grand  March  and  the 
1992  prom  king  and  queen  can- 
didates. 


108  Prom 


t w 


Lower  left:  Brad  Cutright  is  a little 
shocked  by  Jeff  Byrd’s  actions. 

Left:  The  1992  Prom  King  and 
Queen:  Tad  Baird  and  Stephanie 
Beadles. 


Prom  1992 


This  year’s  junior/senior 
prom,  called  “Black  Tie 
Affair,”  was  co-chaired  by 
Heather  Wooldridge  and 
Tracy  Roberts.  The  entire 
dance,  coronation,  and 
grand  march  were  held  in 
the  high  school  gymnasium 
for  the  first  time. 

Decorations  centered 
around  a huge  black  and 
white  tuxedo,  which  was 
suspended  from  the  back- 
board  in  the  gym. 


Around  the  tuxedo  stood 
several  decorations  with 
black,  white,  and  clear  bal- 
loons. At  the  south  end  of 
the  gym  stood  a large  black 
top  hat.  In  the  west  gym, 
pictures  were  taken  before 
a large  red  bowtie  with 
white  streamers  hanging 
from  it,  a most  appropriate 
setting  for  prom  goers.  The 
prom  theme  song  was 
“Faithfully.” 


Prom  109 


Right:  Missy  Nelson,  Jenny  Moo- 
re, Amy  Mathias  decide  dancing 
with  heels  on  is  for  the  birds. 

Below:  Wendy  Peck,  the  1991 
prom  queen,  crowns  Tad  Baird 
king. 


Above  right:  Stephanie  Beadles  is 
crowned  the  1992  prom  queen  by 
Wendy  Peck. 

Right:  CCHS  juniors  and  seniors 
find  themselves  enjoying  the  mu- 
sic furnished  by  CBM  Music 
Company. 


Faithfully 


Left:  Rachel  Lobb  is  “light 
on  her  feet”  when  dancing 
on  Mike  Morris’s  feet. 

Far  left:  Jamie  Torbert, 
Chastity  Turney,  Amie 
Torbert,  and  Kristen  Tilly 
“borrow”  their  escort’s 
jackets. 

Below:  Max  Wollet  and  Jeff 
Byrd  are  revved-up  for  the 
garter  dance. 


Prom  111 


S2BSENI0RS 


1 14  Seniors 


Brian  M.  Peavler 


Richard  F.  Kuntz 
Bryce  R.  McCleary 
Layton  Vandervort 


Doug  B.  Bostwick 
Todd  Norrington 
Dionna  Kay  Earl 
Marci  Ellen  Hoke 


Darrell  Conover 
Matthew  Bloch 
Keith  Chapman 
Patrick  Costa 


Brian  Patterson 
Jayme  Isringhausen 
Denise  Korneman 
Terry  W.  Dodds 


Brian  S.  Dennis 
Rachel  R.  Lobb 
Melissa  Bevins 
Beverly  Nannini 


Christopher  Bartels  Jared  Anderson 

Karma  M.  Smith 
Jason  R.  Wrage 


SENIORS 

— 


Seniors  1 15 


Renee’  Anne  Workman  Melanie  Dawn  Wilson  Gina  Marie  Alsup  Marshall  Aaron  Canfield 

Kristin  Leigh  Lane  Malu  V.  Garcia  Tricia  Kay  Lowrey  Jason  Karl  Snyder 


Stephanie  Bezier  Scott  Jerrel  Koritz  Brant  James  Obermeyer 

Anthony  Lynn  Douglas  Stacy  Dawn  Newberry  Leonard  Jacob  Hoback 


SENIORS 


1 1 6 Seniors 


Mart  i Hoke  and  Renee’ Workman  ponder  life  over  their  school  Paula  and  Darrell  Conover  seem  to  be  enjoying  their  Monday  while 

lunches.  Scott  Dennis  shows  us  how  the  rest  of  the  world  feels. 


A 


Carin  Rae  Hoye  Max  Anthony  Wollet  Robert  E.  Pollock  Amber  Nicole  Graves 

Jonathan  David  Taylor  Heather  M.  Wantland  Thomas  H.  Andrews 


_ S E N I O R S 


Seniors  1 17 


Billy  Ray  Dubson  Matthew  Johnson 


Silly  Seniors 


Amber  Graves,  Cheri  Jent,  Stephanie  Beadles,  and  Rene6  Workman  Mary  Thayer  and  Bryce  McCleary  show  how  to  spend  quality 
define  their  territory.  l'me  in  yearbook. 


Jason  Karr,  Mike  Doggett,  and  Marshall  Canfield  are  three  wits  or  together  one. 


By  the  time  students  have 
reached  their  senior  year,  they 
have  decided  that  images  and 
popularity  are  unneeded.  This 
year’s  seniors  like  to  have  fun  no 
matter  what  they  look  like  to 
others.  They  have  thrown  off 
their  junior  high  stereotypes  and 
have  let  their  true  colors  show. 
“Goofing  off’  is  what  some 
teachers  like  to  call  what  the  sen- 
iors do,  but  they  like  to  call  it 
“Being  themselves.” 

The  seniors  this  year  have 
contracted  the  dreaded  disease 
Senioritis,  a little  early.  To  re- 
lieve some  of  the  pressure  and 
tension  that  Senioritis  puts  upon 
the  seniors’  shoulders,  each  sen- 
ior has  his  own  way  of  dealing 
with  it.  Thus,  he  usually  resorts 
to  “Goofing  off.” 


Seniors  1 1 9 


Wendy  Jo  McKinzey  Natalie  Jean  Sams  Jacqueline  Louise  Bray  Tad  B.  Baird 

Rebekah  Ann  Imig  Francine  Deirdre  Acuna  Melissa  Ann  Harvey  Jason  L.  Drake 

Cary  F.  Luttrell  Kimberly  Anne  Bray  Brad  Clayton  Gordon  Kris  A.  Karr 


Molly  Sue  McGuire  Brandi  Michelle  Newman  Amy  M.  Rubenacker 


120  Seniors 


SENIORS 


Seniors  Theresa  Wheat  and  Kim  Bray  assist  junior  Nikki  Karr  Bev  Nannini  tries  to  prove  a point  to  Marshall  Canfield  and  the 
with  a demonstration  project.  rest  of  her  English  Literature  class. 


Jason  Gentry  and  Jason  Drake  seem  to  have  more  fun  eating  pizza  outside  of  school 
than  they  do  when  they  are  in  school. 


Melanie  Wilson  spends  her  lunch  hour 
working  on  her  accounting  homework. 


Rich  Rybolt  shows  off  his  evil  grin. 


Senior  Carin  Hoye  assists  her  fellow  childcare  classmates  on  their 
project. 


SENIORS 


Seniors  121 


Ready  to  Take  a Step 


Richard  Jason  Rybolt 


It  looks  as  if  Jared  Anderson  and  Todd  Norrington  have  some  im- 
portant “plans"  in  the  works. 


Bill  Dubson  spends  another  exciting  day  in  computer  class. 


122  Seniors 


SENIORS 


Belinda  Galuszka 





Mike  Doggctt  watches  while  fellow  senior  Jason  Drake  proves  his  strength  to  Mr.  Knutson's  weights  class 


JIT  Vh.  ▲ 

James  Barry  and  Cletus  Ridgeway  enjoy  one  of  the  always  thrilling  Clinton  pep  assemblies. 


Seniors  123 


James  Barry  and  Cheri  Jent  stand  by  to  watch  Cletus  Ridgeway  lick  Kristi  Helton’s 
ear  while  holding  her  shoes. 


Bryce  McCleary  has  another  productive  day  in 
Yearbook. 


Melanie  Wilson,  Bobbie  Isaac,  Kristi  Helton,  Mary  Hovis,  Steph 
Hager,  Dionna  Earl,  and  Cheri  Jent  celebrate  another  birthday. 


Cheri  Lynn  Jent 


Richard  Lee  Heath,  Jr. 


Debra  Ann  Willis 


Ryan  Charles  Archey 


Shari  Nicole  Brinkley 


Jennifer  R.  Brown 


Movie 


Silence  of  the  Lambs 
Gone  inith  the  Wind 
Wagne's  World 
national  Lampoon's  Vacation 
memphis  Belle 
Iron  Eagle 
Cheech  G Chong 
Benji  the  Hunted 
Robinhood:  Prince  of  Thieves 
Beautg  and  the  Beast 


Thing  to  Do... 

Fish 

Hunt 

Sleep 

Read 

Play  Football 
Listen  to  Music 
Shop 

Be  with  Girl/Boy-friend 
Eat  Pizza  , 

Act 

Dance 

Sing 

Drive  Around 


(O:  /a\ 


D ) 


Cadillac  Seville  STS 
Dodge  Viper 
'62  Corvette 
Dodge  Stealth 
Ford  Mustang  GT  5.0 
'65  Mustang  Convertible 
Acura  Integra 
Acura  Legend 
Chevrolet  Nova 
Truck 

Chevrolet  Beretta 
Mercedes  Benz  600  SEL 


IP 

yyy/yyyy 

SHOE 

Nike 

imp 

Converse 

ip 

KEDS 

Gitano 

Reebock 

ill! 

Adidas  Torsion 

SPORTS 

Basketball 

Badminton 

Baseball 


Football 

Gymnastics 

Swimming 


at  tors 


Sean  Connery 
Kevin  Costner 
Mel  Gibson 
Anthony  Hopkins 
Cheech  Marin 
Leslie  Neilson 
Arnold  Schwarzenegger 
Christian  Slater 
Sylvester  Stalone 


Actresses 

Darryl  Hannah 
Holly  Hunter 
Susan  Sarandon 
Molly  Ringwald 
Julia  Roberts 


SPORT  TEAMS 

St.  Louis  Cardinals 
Chicago  Bears 
Chicago  Bulls 
Boston  Celtics 
Detroit  Pistons 
Chicago  Cubs 
San  Diego  Padres 
San  Francisco  49'ers 
Chicago  White  Sox 


FOOD 

Lobster 

Pizza 

Italian 

Chinese 

Tacos  from  Taco  Bell 
Lasagna 
Ice  Cream 
Pepperoni 


Songs 


Can't  Fight  This  Feeling 
I Wanna  Sex  You  Up 
Unchained  Melody 
Bohemian  Rhapsody 
Tears  in  Heaven 
The  River 
Don't  Tread  On  Me 
More  Than  Words 
Faithfully 
Dream  of  a New  Day 
Phantom  of  the  Opera 


O L O 

BLUE 

BLACK 

JADE 

TEAL 

PINK 

RED 

WHITE 

PURPLE 


R 


MySic 

Light  Rock 
Dance 
Classical 
Rock  'n  Roll 
Oldies  & 
REO 
Pop 
Slow 
Country 


DO  YOU 


128  Seniors 


ANY  OF  YOUR^^™,l■^™," 

classmates? 


Seniors  129 


Right:  Amber  Graves  says  “Good-bye”  with  a mortarboard  message  and  her  famous 
“Peace”  sign. 


1992  COMMENCEMENT  PROGRAM 


Fanfare  and  Processional  — “Pomp  and  Circumstance” Elgar/Ploy har 

Invocation Pastor  James  Bloch 


Senior  Student's  Welcome 


Kristi  Marie  Helton 


“One  Moment  In  Time” Arr.  John  Higgins 

Clinton  Community  High  School  Mixed  Chorus 
Mrs.  Kay  Tennill,  Director 


Recognition  of  Valedictorian/Salutatorian Jerry  Bauersachs,  Principal 

Message  to  the  Class  Valedictorian 

“Manhattan  Beach” J.p.  Sousa 


Clinton  Community  High  School  Band 
Dennis  Streight,  Director 

Presentation  of  the  Class Gary  Archey,  Superintendent 

Awarding  of  Diplomas Richard  Howell 

Benediction Pastor  Glen  Stewart 


Fanfare  and  Recessional Elgar/Ployhar 

(The  audience  will  please  remain  seated  during  the  Benediction  and  Recessional) 

Honor  stoles  are  presented  to  graduates  who  have  maintained  a 3.51  average  or  higher 
for  all  years  of  high  school  attendance. 

Graduates  wearing  blue  and  gold  tassels  are  members  of  the  National  Honor  Society 


Class  Officers 


President Kristi  Marie  Helton 

Vice  President Abby  Christine  Motsinger 

Secretary Marshall  Aaron  Canfield 

Treasurer Dionna  Kay  Earl 


Right:  Smiles  appear  when  it’s  finally  over. 


1 30  Graduation 


WE’RE  OUTTA 
HERE!! 

May  29th  finally  arrived  with  a few  sprinkles,  but  nothing 
could  dampen  the  spirits  of  the  graduating  class  of  1992. 
Smiles,  crazy  slogans,  and  confetti  marked  the  festive  oc- 
casion. The  ceremony  was  brief,  approximately  thirty  min- 
utes, but  that  was  about  all  the  seniors  could  sit  still  for.  As 
the  band  struck  the  final  chords,  the  Class  of  1992  was 
“Outta  There.” 


Above:  This  graduate  has  her 
own  way  of  announcing  the  end 
of  four  years  of  high  school. 
Left:  Hats  in  the  air,  confetti 
everywhere. 


Graduation  131 


Above:  Stacy  Newberry  is  dressed  and  ready  for 
her  march  down  the  aisle  of  the  gym. 

Left:  Looks  varied  as  seniors  marched  to  the 
rhythm  of  “Pomp  and  Circumstance.” 


Graduation  133 


1 34  Graduation 


Left:  Pat  Costa  is  pleased  to  make  this  trip  across  the  stage. 
Below:  Thai  Son  Pham  and  Faith  KJeiss  are  two  eager  graduates. 


The  seniors  blend  their 
voices  one  last  time. 


Graduation  135 


This  year  the  Clintonia  yearbook  staff  decided  to  create 
a new  section  for  the  group  pictures.  This  was  done  in  order 
to  leave  more  space  on  each  organization’s  page  for  candid 
photos. 


136  Groups 


J.  Defebaugh  & Date 
D.  Webb  & J.  Callison 
T.  Norrington  & J. 
Thomas 

K.  Powers  & Date 


BLACK  TIE  AFFAIR 


T.  Dulany  & A. 
Koshinski 
C.  Mills  & Date 
S.  Newberry  & Date 
K.  Tilley  & R.  Rybolt 


B.  Obermeyer  & E. 
Connors 
R.  Bloch  & Date 
K.  Bray  & Date 
T.  Defebaugh  & K. 
Coy 


E.  Peck  & Date 
S.  Anderson  & M. 
Bloch 

D.  Cooper  & S.  Conn 
M.  Cope  & C.  Alwood 


T.  Kress  & A. 
Goodman 

R.  Heath  & T.  Eveland 
C.  Blessing  & Date 
J.  Windhorn  & D. 
Scogin 


All  Prom  1 37 


J.  Harrold  & C.  Jent 
J.  Heap  & S.  Rogers 

A.  Wheeler  & B. 
Crabtree 

B.  Cutright  & J. 
Maxwell 

B.  Isaac  & D.  Cooper 


D.  Willis  & Date 
D.  Dial  & L.  Hunt 
A.  Glenn  & Date 
W.  Wollet  & A. 
Torbert 

W.  Conn  & S.  Morris 


M.  Wilson  & J.  Shobe 
G.  Hale  & R.  Ingram 

A.  Riegel  & B.  Nannini 
W.  Conaty  & K.  Evans 

B.  Duncan  & H. 
Wooldridge 


S.  Brinkley  & Date 
B.  Peavler  & M. 
Maddix 

M.  Canfield  & C. 
Turney 

S.  Weiss  & J.  Byrd 
S.  Henson  & Date 


P.  Costa  & T. 

Stapleton 
S.  Beadles  & Date 
J.  Taylor  & D.  Scott 
P.  Nixon  & K.  Harmon 
N.  Buraglio  & Date 


138  All  Prom 


J.  Hickerson  & B. 
Helton 

R.  Kuntz  & S.  Purkes 

K.  Helton  & R.  Archey 
D.  Korneman  & K. 
Nixon 

B.  Gordon  & M. 

Nelson 


K.  Smith  & Date 
J.  Hale  & Date 
T.  Lowrey  & B. 
McCleary 

A.  Stephens  & V.  Joss 
G.  Ogle  & D.  Scott 


C.  Trago  & R.  Crutcher 
N.  Smith  & Date 
J.  Torbert  & T.  Baird 
J.  Griswold  & Date 
M.  Doggett  & C.  Webb 


K.  Karr  & Date 
C.  Bauersachs  & J. 
Fairfield 

J.  Rich  & J.  Schottel 
J.  Karr  & S.  Nunnery 
A.  Motsinger  & J. 
Mannix 


L.  Welch  & Date 

A.  Mathias  & R.  Foehr 
H.  Wantland  & C. 

Welch 

B.  Ewing  & T. 

Koshinski 

T.  Walston  & J. 

Morrow 

All  Prom  139 


G.  Alsup  & Date  T.  Wheat  & Date 

S.  Brown  & J.  Overbey  D.  Bostwick  & C. 

G.  Mandrell  & T.  Reynolds 

Crispen  T.  Bates  & D.  Howard 


R.  Lobb  & M.  Morris 
B.  Day  & A.  Powless 


N.  Karr  & J.  Follis 
R.  Stroup  & J.  Moore 


G.  Timmons  & Date 
C.  Luttrell  & K. 
Woollen 


A.  Glenn,  C. 
Bauersachs, 

A.  Mathias,  & K.  Tilley 


140  All  Prom 


VARSITY  FOOTBALL— Front  row:  Jason  Fairfield,  Craig  Snyder, 
Tom  Maier,  Jim  Blue,  Adam  Long,  Chad  Herzog,  Frank  Russell, 
Doug  Bostwick,  Josh  Carter,  and  Brian  Peavler.  Row  2:  Tad  Baird, 
Chris  Hammer,  Shane  Mills,  Ron  Condie,  Doug  Hammer,  Jared 
Anderson,  Mike  Doggett,  Rich  Rybolt,  Jeff  Byrd,  Andy  Kerley,  Matt 
Parsons,  and  Doug  Scott.  Row  3:  Dan  Wilson,  Roger  Scott,  Wayne 
Davis,  Jason  Stith,  Kyle  Bourne,  Josh  Rich,  Rick  Williamson,  Trav- 
is Cornwell,  Ryan  Archey,  and  Jarrod  Holmes.  Row  4:  Coach  Good- 
win, Jeff  Mannix,  Jason  Drake,  Jesse  Johns,  Russell  Foehr,  Bryce 
McCleary,  Ben  Nichols,  Jon  Taylor,  Marshall  Canfield,  Ben  Helton, 
and  Coach  Nagel. 


/ 


SOPHOMORE  FOOTBALL— Front  row:  Craig  Snyder,  Jim  Blue, 
Shane  Mills,  Tom  Maier,  Chad  Herzog,  and  Josh  Carter.  Row  2: 
Doug  Scott,  Ben  Helton,  Doug  Hammer,  Travis  Cornwell,  Frank 
Russell,  Paul  Martins,  Adam  Long,  and  Matt  Parson.  Row  3:  Asst. 
Coach  Queer,  Wayne  Davis,  Jason  Stith,  Jarrod  Holmes,  Ben  Ni- 
chols, Jesse  Johns,  Kyle  Bourne,  Andy  Kerley,  and  Coach  Knutson. 


4 


FRESHMAN  FOOTBALL — Front  row:  Judson  Carter,  Jamie  Queer, 
David  Delmonico,  Jerami  Sugg,  Adam  Blue,  Ryan  Black,  and  Greg 
Brannan.  Row  2:  Eric  Young,  Carl  Thorpe,  Jason  Murphy,  Karl 
Koritz,  Shane  VanFossan,  Brian  Molitoris,  Ryan  Connelly,  Josh 
Weiss,  E.  J.  Brady,  and  Travis  Peck.  Row  3:  Casey  Hicks,  Wiley 
Shott,  Mike  Chambers,  Rob  Porter,  Geoff  Wilson,  John  Fenton, 
and  Matt  Goddard.  Row  4:  Coach  Triezenberg,  Rob  Woollen,  Clint 
Seaman,  Brad  Earl,  David  Lemmel,  Sean  Kelly,  Nik  Jones,  Andy 
Taylor,  and  Coach  Urban. 


GOLF — Front  row:  Jim  Tanner,  Jeremy  Hinton,  Nate  Seal,  Bryan 
Martin,  Brian  Ballenger,  and  Tim  Hilbrick.  Row  2:  Coach  Burger, 
Ray  Stroup,  Andrew  Goodmon,  Brad  Cutright,  Brad  Gordon,  Doug 
Bostwick,  Max  Wollet,  and  Coach  Hinton. 


Group  Shots  141 


VARSITY  VOLLEYBALL — Front  row:  Stephanie  Bezier,  Amy  Ste- 
phens, Gina  Alsup,  Jennifer  Schottel,  and  Heather  Wooldridge.  Row 
2:  Jessica  Dahler,  Jennifer  Griswold,  Bev  Nannini,  Alicia  Sprague, 
Melissa  Peters.  Row  3:  Natalie  Sams,  Tricia  Lowrey,  Sara  Daven- 
port, Tracy  Roberts,  and  Stacy  Newberry. 


JUNIOR  VARSITY  VOLLEYBALL— Front  row:  Kristy  Evans, 
Stacey  Douglas,  Brooke  Bostwick,  Amy  Sessions,  and  Sarah  Bloch. 
Row  2:  Mandy  Spencer,  Jessica  Dahler,  Marcy  Madix,  Sondra 
Crutcher,  Shallon  Gyuran,  Angela  Vogel,  and  Sara  Nunnery.  Row 
3:  Amy  Nunnery,  Angie  Newberry,  Gretchen  Dukeman,  Alicia  Spra- 
gue, Sherry  Lane,  Betsy  Cooper,  and  Nicole  Cox. 


GIRLS’  CROSS  COUNTRY — Front  row:  Heather  Wise,  Stephanie 
Purkes,  and  Melody  Alexander.  Row  2:  Wendy  McKinzey,  Jill  Hick- 
erson,  Gina  Ogle,  and  Coach  Clark. 


VARSITY  WRESTLING — Front  row:  Kris  Karr,  Adam  Long,  James 
Barry,  Frank  Russell,  Tom  Maier,  Chad  Herzog,  Jim  Blue,  Dan 
Hendrix,  and  Josh  Decker.  Row  2:  Matt  Parson,  Josh  Carter,  Pat 
Costa,  Doug  Hammer,  Roger  Scott,  Jeff  Byrd,  Jon  Taylor,  Jeff  Man- 
nix,  Russell  Foehr,  Matt  Baker,  Kyle  Bourne,  Andy  Kerley,  and 
Coach  Nagel. 


142  Group  Shots 


FALL  VARSITY  CHEERLEADERS — Front  row:  Kristen  Tilley, 
Tiffany  Stapleton,  and  Cathy  Trago.  Row  2:  Amy  Mathias,  Christy 
Bauersachs,  Andrea  Glenn,  and  Denise  Korneman. 


FALL  JUNIOR  VARSITY  CHEERLEADERS— Front  Row:  Christy 
Hemn  and  Beth  Maxwell.  Row  2:  Celia  Reynolds  and  Jenny  Moore. 
Row  3:  Andrea  Sams  and  Chastity  Turney  Row  4:  Jamie  Torbert 
and  Amie  Torbert. 


FALL  M-SQUAD — Front  row:  Sherry  Arnold,  Stephanie  Weiss,  and 
Melissa  Nelson.  Row  2:  Cheri  Jent,  Bobbie  Isaac,  Lynnette  Gibson, 
and  Stephanie  Montross.  Row  3:  Kim  Best,  Courtney  Bock,  Laura 
Trotter,  Brandy  Kress,  and  Jennifer  Maxwell.  Row  4:  Summer  Kel- 
ley, Kristi  Helton,  Gina  Van  Apeldoorn,  Alicia  Sprague,  Kristi  Pow- 
ers, Tracey  Kress,  and  Debbie  Willis. 


JUNIOR  VARSITY  WRESTLING— Front  row:  Adam  Blue,  Bnan 
Ballenger,  Chad  Hendriex,  Mark  Gall,  Ryan  Black,  and  Josh  Fort. 
Row  2:  Paul  Martens,  Mike  Chambers,  Brian  Molitoris,  Jamie  Queer, 
Jason  Stephens,  Mike  Hendriex,  and  John  Fenton.  Row  3:  Ross 
Wantland,  Kory  Niebarger,  Doug  Mearida,  Matt  Goddard,  Jona- 
thon Hale,  Brently  Cooper,  and  Coach  Queer. 


Group  Shots  143 


S.A.D.D. — Front  row:  Angela  Smith,  Kristina  Goodwin,  Rebekah 
Imig,  Laura  Utterback,  Megan  Emerson,  Brandy  Kress,  Summer 
Kelley,  Tracey  Kress,  and  Lynnette  Gibson.  Row  2:  Brently  Cooper, 
Angela  Zieman,  Cynthia  Webb,  Kesha  Ridenour,  Camie  Wilson, 
Jennifer  Griswold,  Ross  Graber,  Kimberly  Woollen,  Stephanie  Weiss, 
and  Melissa  Nelson.  Row  3:  Robert  Hawkins,  Renee  Clark,  Tina 
Russell,  Brenda  Barger,  Jonathon  Hale,  Nicole  Cox,  Betsy  Cooper, 
Keri  Sowers,  Stephanie  Hager,  and  Rachel  Lobb.  Row  4:  Angela 
Koshinski,  Lisa  Goodwin,  Jennifer  Moore,  Cathy  Trago,  Jennifer 
Maxwell,  Angela  Vogel,  Leslie  Hunt,  Patrick  Keane,  Jennifer  Kuntz, 
Hillari  Winebrinner,  and  Mike  Hendriex.  Row  5:  Jamie  Torbert, 
Kristen  Tilley,  Chastity  Turney,  Michelle  Purkes,  Andrea  Sams,  Bryce 
McCleary,  Melanie  Wilson,  Denise  Korneman,  Mark  Michel,  Todd 
Hardwick,  and  Tyler  Rogers.  Row  6:  Nikolai  Jones,  Mary  Hovis, 
Cheri  Jent,  Bobbie  Isaac,  Kristi  Helton,  Debbie  Willis,  Dionna  Earl, 
and  Steve  Zartler. 


TECHNICAL  ENGINEERS — Front  row:  Jason  Wrage,  Sherry  Ar- 
nold, and  Kristi  Helton.  Row  2:  Ben  Helton,  Jared  Anderson,  Cathy 
Trago,  Ryan  Archey,  and  Brad  Cutright.  Row  3:  Chad  Herzog  and 
Todd  Norrington. 


THESPIANS — Front  row:  Julie  Heap,  Shilo  Rogers,  Jared  Callison, 
Darcie  Webb,  Josh  Morrow,  Jared  Anderson,  and  Stephanie  Hager. 
Row  2:  Wendy  McKinzey,  Cary  Luttrell,  Jacqueline  Bray,  Amber 
Graves,  Amy  Mathias,  Denise  Korneman,  Kristi  Helton,  Mary  Hov- 
is, Kimberly  Woollen,  and  Miss  Miller.  Row  3:  Jennifer  Kuntz, 
Jonathon  Hale,  Brad  Cutright,  Jason  Wrage,  Ryan  Archey,  Rebekah 
Imig,  and  Kimberly  Best.  i 


V 

if  V 

VJ 

FOREIGN  LANGUAGE  CLUB — Front  row:  Jeffrey  Byrd,  Jill  Har- 
ris, Debbie  Willis,  Cheri  Jent,  Kristi  Helton,  Stephanie  Hager,  Jac- 
queline Bray,  and  Stacy  Newberry.  Row  2:  Tricia  Tuggle,  Melissa 
Peters,  Jessica  Dahler,  Tricia  Lowrey,  Jason  Wrage,  Jennifer  Schot- 
tel,  Cathy  Trago,  and  Jared  Anderson.  Row  3:  Laura  Utterback, 
Angela  Vogel,  Lisa  Goodwin,  Jennifer  Maxwell,  Angela  Koshinski, 
Jennifer  Gutierrez,  Jennifer  Fisher,  Gina  Van  Apeldoorn,  and 
Courtney  Bock.  Row  4:  Scott  Moody,  Mike  Bernard,  Thai  Son  Pham, 
Bradley  Cutright,  Celia  Reynolds,  Stephanie  Weiss,  Hillari  Wine- 
brinner, Jennifer  Reinhardt,  Jennifer  Kuntz,  Kimberly  Woollen,  and 
Beverly  Nannini.  Row  5:  Travis  Cornwell,  Kyle  Bourne,  Joseph 
Daniels,  Angela  Newberry,  Sara  Davenport,  Chastity  Turney,  Kris- 
ten Tilley,  Amie  Torbert,  Jennifer  Moore,  Michael  Doggett,  and 
Stephanie  Montross.  Row  6:  Ms.  Laffey,  Jared  Callison,  Darcie  Webb, 
Angela  Monts,  Eric  Young,  Amy  Wheeler,  Sherrie  Brown,  Mary 
Hovis,  Bobbie  Isaac,  and  Dionna  Earl. 


1 44  Group  Shots 


F.F.A. — Front  row:  Vanessa  Stephenson,  Jill  Courtright,  Sara  Mar- 
tin, and  Stephanie  Beck.  Row  2:  Don  Prather,  Ashley  Sayers,  Sherry 
Arnold,  Kim  Best,  Leslie  Hunt,  Bill  Musick,  Zachary  Howell,  and 
Kesha  Ridenour.  Row  3:  Douglas  Mearida,  Stephen  Sowers,  David 
Killian,  Justin  Hackett,  Matthew  Tilley,  Ryan  Black,  Jerami  Sugg, 
Gergory  Brannan,  Sara  Leimbach,  Moriah  Steward,  Sherry  Lane, 
Mark  Decker,  and  Jackie  Mills.  Row  4:  Samuel  Arnold,  Brian  Ashby, 
Daniel  Wilson,  Anthony  Campbell,  Nikolai  Jones,  John  Fenton. 
Bradley  Earl,  Ryan  Connelly,  Phillip  Followell,  and  Eames  Forsberg. 


F.H.A. — Front  row:  April  Davis,  Carla  Hoke,  Sara  Roberts,  Mar- 
jorie Whitney,  Susan  Anderson,  and  Carin  Hoye.  Row  2:  Julie  Har- 
ris, Sara  Bateson,  Tracy  Chrispen,  Gina  Ogle,  Magdalina  Garcia, 
and  Molly  McGuire.  Row  3:  Maria  Hansen,  Angela  Zieman,  Connie 
Roberts,  Gina  Short,  Holly  Hughes,  and  Kimberly  Tuggle. 


NATIONAL  HONOR  SOCIETY— Front  row:  Dionna  Earl,  Denise 
Komeman,  Beverly  Nannini,  Debbie  Willis,  and  Bobbie  Isaac.  Row 
2:  Ryan  Archey,  Jason  Wrage,  Stacy  Newberry,  Jared  Anderson,  and 
Mrs.  Fry. 


AUTO  MECHANICS— Front  row:  Brian  Cooper,  Greg  Hale,  Wil 
liam  Daniels,  and  Rick  Heath.  Row  2:  Stacey  Tennison,  Andrew 
Goodmon,  and  Eric  Sessions.  Row  3:  Tony  Douglas,  Rick  William- 
son, and  Richard  Tennison. 


Group  Shots  145 


VARSITY  GIRLS  BASKETBALL:  Nicole  West,  Natalie  Sams,  Melissa 
Peters,  Tracy  Roberts,  Sara  Davenport,  Tricia  Lowrey,  Stacy  Newberry, 
Candace  Blessing,  Lisa  Goodwin,  and  Angie  Olson. 


VARSITY  BOYS  BASKETBALL — Front  row:  Ryan  Archey,  Phillip 
Followell,  Tad  Baird,  Michael  Wilson,  Shilo  Rogers,  Jason  Fairfield, 
Ray  Stroup,  and  Travis  Dulany.  Row  2:  Ray  Bergles,  Brad  Gordon, 
Ben  Nichols,  Terry  Dodds,  Scott  Koritz,  Matt  Leimbach,  Joshua  Rich, 
and  Bob  Moore. 


JUNIOR  VARSITY  GIRLS  BASKETBALL— Front  row:  Marcy  Ma- 
dix,  Cyndi  Webb,  Heather  Wise,  Sara  Martin,  Jennifer  Andrew,  Melody 
Alexander,  and  Wendy  Rossio.  Row  2:  Sean  Martin,  Shallon  Gyuran, 
Gretchen  Dukeman,  Sara  Davenport,  Angela  Newberry,  Andrea  Sams, 
and  Betsy  Cooper. 


|vWiv| 

34(1 

ft  A 

I 

1 ' 

WINTER  VARSITY  CHEERLEADERS— Front  row:  Andrea  Glenn 
and  Amy  Mathias.  Row  2:  Jennifer  Schottel,  Kristen  Tilley,  and  Darcie 
Webb.  Row  3:  Denise  Korneman  and  Cathy  Trago. 


146  Group  Shots 


SOPHOMORE  BASKETBALL— Front  row:  Ben  Helton,  Phillip  Fol- 
lowed Jeremy  Hinton,  Wayne  Davis,  Justin  Nauman,  and  Adam  Nagy. 
Row  2:  Lyndon  Jason,  Matt  Leimbach,  Jesse  Johns,  Scott  Moody,  Brad 
Outright,  and  Curtis  Pine. 


WINTER  JUNIOR  VARSITY  CHEERLEADERS— Front  row:  Chas- 
tity Turney  and  Stacey  Douglas.  Row  2:  Celia  Reynolds  and  Jennifer 
Moore.  Row  3:  Beth  Maxwell,  Amie  Torbert,  Jamie  Torbert,  and  Brooke 
Bostwick. 


FRESHMAN  BASKETBALL— Front  row:  Tyler  Rogers,  Shane  Van 
Fossan,  Justin  Webb,  Lance  Taylor,  Jerami  Sugg,  and  Ryan  Taylor. 
Row  2:  Erik  Young,  Karl  Thorpe,  Ryan  Connelly,  E.J.  Brady,  Karl 
Koritz,  Judd  Carter,  and  Todd  Hardwick.  Row  3:  Mike  Clark,  Erik 
Danison,  Sean  Kelley,  Christopher  Brady,  David  Lemmel,  Brad  Earl, 
and  Nik  Jones. 


WINTER  M-SQUAD — Front  row:  Clarene  Arnold,  Stephanie  Weiss, 
Melissa  Nelson,  Stephanie  Montross,  Sherrie  Arnold,  and  Loretta  Ro- 
gers. Row  2:  Kristi  Powers,  Cheri  Jcnt,  Jennifer  Maxwell,  Courtney 
Bock,  Kimberly  Best,  and  Brandi  Kress.  Row  3:  Kristi  Helton,  Gina 
Van  Apeldoom,  Summer  Kelley,  Alicia  Sprague,  Tracey  Kress,  and 
Debbie  Willis. 


Group  Shots  147 


INTERACT  CLUB — Front  row:  Kimberly  Woollen,  Jennifer  Kuntz, 
Kesha  Ridenhour,  and  Summer  Kelley.  Row  2:  Julie  Thomas,  Katie 
Goddard,  Michelle  Purkes,  Joe  Daniels,  Jill  Hickerson,  Jennifer 
Schottel,  and  Kimberly  Tuggle.  Row  3:  Patrick  Keane,  Travis  Corn- 
well,  Kevin  Smart,  Leslie  Hunt,  Bev  Nannini,  Stacy  Newberry,  and 
Mrs.  Shelton. 


MIXED  CHORUS — Front  row:  Joanna  Latham,  Katie  Goddard, 
Nancy  Winebrinner,  April  Davis,  Sara  Bateson,  Renee  Clark,  Malu 
Garcia,  Jennifer  Brown,  Mrs.  Tennill.  Row  2:  Maria  Hansen,  Heath- 
er Day,  Kristina  Rogers,  Angela  Nunnery,  Tracy  Chrispen,  Carey 
Mills,  Samantha  Morrow,  Kimberly  Bray,  Amanda  Walston,  Sara 
Gentry,  and  Michelle  Purkes.  Row  3:  Robert  Hawkins,  Cary  Luttrell, 
Mike  Schwab,  Bill  Day,  Jonathon  Hale,  William  Conaty. 


SUPER  SECRETARIES — Front  row:  Chris  Hammer  and  Marshall 
Canfield.  Row  2:  Jamie  Torbert,  Kristen  Tilley,  Lynn  Welch,  Wendy 
McKinzey,  Heather  Wooldridge,  Courtney  Webb,  Abby  Motsinger, 
Mary  Hovis,  Chasity  Turney  and  Laura  Trotter.  Row  3:  Kristina 
Rogers,  Amy  Wheeler,  Renee  Workman,  Kristy  Bevins,  Dyan  Shep- 
herd, Kristin  Lane,  Amber  Graves,  Gina  Van  Apeldoorn,  Courtney 
Bock,  and  Wendy  Conn.  Row  4:  Pat  Allison,  Sara  Gentry,  Sherrie 
Brown,  Melanie  Wilson,  Natalie  Sams,  Andrea  Sams,  Stephanie 
Beadles,  Marci  Donovan,  Debbie  Scoles,  and  Chastity  Clymer. 

l 


BARBERSHOP  QUARTET:  Justin  Short,  Andrew  Martin,  Joshua 
Rich  and  Jonathon  Hale. 


148  Group  Shots 


STUDENT  COUNCIL— Front  row:  Craig  Snyder,  David  Lemmel, 
Tim  Hilbrick,  Jennifer  Fisher,  and  Ryan  Taylor.  Row  2:  Amanda 
Spencer,  Matt  Parson,  Chad  Herzog,  Chastity  Turney,  Marcy  Madix, 
Cheri  Jent,  and  Angela  Newberry.  Row  3:  Travis  Cornwell,  Dan 
Hendrix,  Dionna  Earl,  Bev  Nannini,  and  Stephanie  Hager. 


ADVANCED  AND  MIXED  CHORUSES— Front  row:  Kay  Ten- 
nill,  Tina  Russell,  Joanna  Latham,  Angela  Nunnery,  Kathryn  God- 
dard, Nancy  Winebrinner,  April  Davis,  Sara  Bateson,  Renee  Clark, 
Malu  Garcia,  Jennifer  Kuntz,  and  Jennifer  Brown.  Row  2:  Gina 
Alsup,  Marie  Hansen,  Heather  Day,  Kristina  Rodgers,  Gretchen 
Dukeman,  Tracy  Chrispen,  Carey  Mills,  Samantha  Morrow,  Kim 
Bray,  Amanda  Walston,  Sara  Gentry,  and  Michelle  Purkes.  Row  3: 
Robert  Hawkins,  Cary  Luttrell,  Joshua  Rich,  Mike  Schwab,  Justin 
Short,  Andrew  Martin,  Bill  Day,  Jonathon  Hale,  and  Will  Conaty. 


CAPTAINS — Front  row:  Kristen  Tilley,  Megan  Emerson,  Cathy 
Trago,  Kim  Woollen,  Sherry  Arnold,  Jennifer  Moore,  Dionna  Earl, 
Kristy  Evans,  and  Julie  Heap.  Row  2:  Brandy  Kress,  Bev  Nannini, 
Stacy  Newberry,  Jake  Hoback,  Christy  Bauersachs,  Kristi  Helton, 
Jennifer  Maxwell,  Chastity  Turney,  Will  Conaty,  and  Shilo  Rogers. 
Row  3:  Amy  Mathias,  Denise  Komeman,  William  Lacroix,  Adam 
Nagy,  Mike  Hendriex,  Tricia  Lowrey,  Stephanie  Hager,  Debra  Wil- 
lis, and  Tracey  Kress.  Row  4:  Ben  Helton,  Brad  Gordon,  Tad  Baird, 
Chris  Brady,  Terry  Dodds,  Scott  Koritz,  Bryce  McCleary,  Tim  Hil- 
brick, Jason  Fairfield,  Joe  Alexander,  and  Jeff  Byrd. 


ADVANCED  CHORUS — Front  row:  Tina  Russell,  Gina  Alsup, 
Gretchen  Dukeman,  and  Jennifer  Kuntz.  Row  2:  Joshua  Rich,  Justin 
Short,  and  Andrew  Martin. 


Group  Shots  149 


WRESTLING  STATS:  Sara  Leimbach,  Danielle  Basden,  Sherrie 
Brown,  Jennifer  Brown,  Tiffany  Stapleton,  and  Nicole  Karr. 


FLAG  CORPS:  Cary  Luttrell.  Gina  Alsup,  Kesha  Ridenour.  Kim- 
berly Woollen,  Jennifer  Underwood,  Angela  Heiberg,  Kimberly 
Tuggle,  and  Dionna  Earl.  Not  Pictured:  Michelle  Purkes. 


PEP  CLUB — Front  row:  Jennifer  Schottel,  Leslie  Hunt,  Tricia  Low- 
rey,  Kristi  Helton,  Rebecca  Bloch,  Susan  Anderson,  Rebekah  Imig, 
and  Kay  Werts.  Row  2:  Hillari  Winebrinner,  Jennifer  Kuntz,  Cheri 
Jent,  Dionna  Earl,  Debra  Willis,  Kristi  Powers,  Kimberly  Woollen, 
and  Keri  Sowers.  Row  3:  Kesha  Ridenour,  Michelle  Purkes,  Alicia 
Sprague,  Tracey  Kress,  Jennifer  Maxwell,  Jennifer  Moore,  Celia 
Reynolds,  Doug  Bostwick,  and  Melissa  Harvey.  Row  3:  Chris  Ham- 
mer, Brad  Cutright,  Bryce  McCleary,  Cathy  Trago,  Brian  Patterson, 
Max  Wollet,  and  Amie  Torbert. 


BOYS  TRACK — Front  row:  Travis  Peck,  David  Killian,  Jason 
McKinzey,  Matthew  Parson,  Craig  Snyder,  Adam  Nagy,  Joseph  Alex- 
ander, and  William  Lacroix.  Row  2:  Annie  Queer,  Ryan  Connelly,  Bret 
Cook,  R.  Shane  Mills,  Richard  Rybolt,  Tad  Baird,  Marshall  Canfield, 
Ross  Wantland,  Edward  Brady,  Justin  Nauman,  and  Coach  Mike  Clark. 
Row  3:  Coach  Jim  Queer,  Andrew  Kerley,  William  Daniels,  J.  Kyle 
Bourne,  Sean  Kelly,  Patrick  Kean,  Scott  Koritz,  Benjamin  Nichols, 
Andrew  Martin,  and  Christopher  Brady. 


GIRLS  SOFTBALL — Front  row:  Stacey  Douglas,  Sara  Martin,  Kristy 
Evans,  and  Angela  Zieman.  Row  2:  Wendy  Rossio,  Jennifer  Suttles, 
Christine  Herrin,  Betsy  Cooper,  and  Sara  Leimbach.  Row  3:  Amie  Tor- 
bert,  Sara  Nunnery,  Shallon  Gyuran,  Angela  Vogel,  Marcy  Madix,  and 
Coach  Dorothy  Rhodes. 


BASEBALL — Front  row:  Ryan  Taylor,  Adam  Long,  Chad  Herzog,  Brian 
Martin,  James  Queer  II,  James  Tremble,  Tyler  Rogers,  Lance  Taylor, 
and  Jason  Moore.  Row  2:  Shane  VanFossen,  Scott  Koritz,  Kasie  Hicks, 
Jesse  Johns,  David  Lemmel,  Clint  Seaman,  Jeremy  Hinton,  Benjamin 
Helton,  and  Coach  Evans. 


GIRLS  TRACK — Front  row:  Michelle  Purkes,  Stephanie  Purkes,  Brooke 
Bostwick,  Kristen  Tilley,  Gina  Ogle,  Heather  Wise,  and  Wendy 
McKinzey.  Row  2:  Natalie  Sams,  Kimberly  Evans,  Melody  Alexander, 
Heather  Shonk,  Jennifer  Maxwell,  and  Nicole  Cox.  Row  3:  Coach  Steve 
Cors,  Andrea  Sams,  Christy  Bauersachs,  Jill  Hickerson,  Sara  Daven- 
port, Amanda  Rich,  Kori  Murray,  and  Stephanie  Bezier. 


Group  Shots  1 5 1 


VARSITY  BASEBALL— Front  row:  Bart 
Harris,  Shilo  Rogers,  Jimmy  Tanner,  Doug 
Bostwick,  Jason  Fairfield,  and  Josh  Carter. 
Row  2:  Coach  Steve  Stokowski,  Mike  Dog- 
gett,  Jesse  Huisinga,  Jeff  Mannix,  Russell 
Foehr,  Joshua  Rich,  Matthew  Leimbach,  and 
Coach  Kenneth  Sams. 


JUNIOR  VARSITY  SOFTBALL— Front 
row:  Sara  Martin,  Kristy  Evans,  Angela  Zie- 
man,  Nikki  West,  and  Tari  Winchcll.  Row 
2:  Sara  Leimbach,  Lisa  Goodwin,  Wendy 
Rossio,  Jamie  Torbert,  Heather  Wooldridge, 
and  Carin  Hoye.  Row  3:  Coach  Dorothy 
Rhodes,  Shallon  Gyuran,  Candace  Blessing, 
Tricia  Lowrey,  Tracey  Kress,  Stephanie  Bea- 
dles, and  Coach  A1  Austin. 


YEARBOOK:  Bobbie  Isaac,  Melanie  Wil- 
son, Jason  Wrage,  Heather  Day,  Adviser 
Doris  Wunderlich,  Kristi  Helton,  Bryce 
McCleary,  Jonathon  Hale,  Stephanie  Hager, 
Brenda  Barger,  Renee  Clark,  and  Rebekah 
Imig. 


1 52  Group  Shots 


CONCERT  BAND— Drum  Majors:  Chad  Samson  and  Jared  Cal- 
lison.  Front  row:  Stephanie  Purkes,  Amy  Nunnery,  Kim  Evans,  Mel- 
issa Schwab,  Alicia  Sprague,  Jeremy  Hinton,  Rebekah  Imig,  Christ> 
Bauersachs,  Amy  Mathias,  Jennifer  Griswold,  Brandy  Kress,  and 
Megan  Emerson.  Row  2:  Sara  Nunnery,  Jami  Windhom,  Karle  Ko- 
ritz,  Adam  Long,  Max  Wollett,  Scott  Moody,  Sonia  Soto-Perez,  Ste- 
phanie Bezier,  Adrienne  Kielar,  Heather  Wise,  Stacey  Douglas,  and 
Katina  Harmon.  Row  3:  Todd  Norrington,  Jason  Lane,  Scott  Fer- 
guson, Jarod  Mears,  Ryan  Sharp,  Sean  Kelly,  Scott  Koritz,  Nathan 
Wheeler,  and  Melissa  Harvey.  Row  4:  Melanie  Alexander,  Ben  Low- 
ers, B.J.  Obermeyer,  Curtis  Pine,  Erik  Danison,  Jake  Follis,  Tim 
McGee,  E.J.  Brady,  Ross  Wantland,  Steve  Lash,  Joanna  Latham, 
and  Greg  Chick.  Row  5:  Ross  Graber,  Ben  Nichols,  Rick  Harney, 
Amy  Stevens,  Rich  Kuntz,  Wes  Pollock,  Andrew  Goodman,  Tom 
Andrews,  Bill  Lehman,  Brian  Patterson,  Kristi  Powers,  Anthony 
Riegel,  Eric  Young,  Aaron  Rasor,  Chris  Brady,  and  Shane  Van  Fos- 
sen. 


CADET  BAND— Front  row:  Paul  Briggs,  Ross  Graber,  Roger  Scott, 
Justin  Webb,  Stephanie  Bryan,  Amy  Johnson,  and  Heather  Ander- 
son. Row  2:  Tiffany  Brown,  Ryan  Jent,  Andrew  Stevenson,  Judd 
Carter,  Chad  Graves,  B.J.  Obermeyer,  and  JoAnna  Latham. 


JAZZ  BAND— Front  row:  Katie  Goddard,  Max  Wollett,  Scott  Fer- 
guson, Brian  Patterson,  Jared  Callison,  Scott  Moody,  Jami  Win- 
dhom, Stephanie  Purkes,  Nathan  Wheeler,  and  Chad  Graves.  Row 
2:  Ryan  Jent,  Erik  Danison,  B.J.  Obermeyer,  Jarod  Mears,  Todd 
Norrington,  Ross  Wantland,  Steve  Lash,  and  Joanna  Latham.  Row 
3:  Chris  Brady,  Richard  Kuntz,  and  Tom  Andrews. 


BOYS  CROSS  COUNTRY— Front  row:  Jason  McKinzey,  Joe  Al- 
exander, Josh  Morris,  Adam  Nagy,  William  Lacroix.  Row  2:  Jason 
Stevens,  Justin  Nauman,  Will  Daniels,  Scott  Koritz,  Chris  Brady, 
David  Killian,  and  Coach  Clark. 


ORGANIZATIONS  153 


SILVER 

DONATED 

Four  Star  Video 
102  E.  Side  Square  (935-9741) 
Congratulations 


Rs 

124 


Congratulations  & Best  Wishes 
Class  of  '92 
Dave's  Food  Basket 


Clinton  IGA 

Open  24  Hours,  7 Days  A Week 
220  E.  Va  Buren  (935-3779) 


McDonald's 
Rt.54  West 
Clinton,  IL  61727 


First  Mutual  Savings  Bank 
211  S Quincy  Clinton,  IL  61727 
135  E Main  Decatur,  IL  62523 


Cyrulik,  Inc. 

East  Johnson  Street  Limits 
Clinton,  IL  61727 


Miller  Container  Corporation 
Clinton,  IL  61727 
Good  Luck  '92 

Action  Technology  Company 
Rt.  10  E Clinton,  IL  61727  (935-8311) 
Congratulations  Class  of  '92 


157 


1*€| 

Donated  $41-$75 


,{i|»boilS 


Corn  Belt  FS.  Inc. 

Decatur,  IL  61526 

Kathy's  Auto  Body 
Rt.  54  E.  Clinton,  1L 

Herington-Calvert-Pullen-Boos 
Funeral  Directors 

Dr.  John  Warner  Hospital 
Clinton  Ambulance  Service 

Brady  Builders 
Clinton,  IL  (935-6648) 

Board  of  Education 
115  W.  Johnson  Clinton,  IL  61727 

i 

YMCA 

Clinton,  IL  61727 

Quality  Glass  & Trim 
Congratulations  Graduates 

Terry  G.  England  D.M.D. 

Monica  M.  DeGrauwe  D.M.D.,  P.C. 

Best  Wishes 
Heavenly  Parties 

Good  Luck  Class  of  '92 
From  the  Staff  at  Love's  on  the  Square 


Red  Ribbons  Continued 

Anderson  Ford  Mercury 
Rt.  10  West  Clinton  (935-310 

Paul's  Sales  & Service 
Best  Little  Mower  House  in  Clinton 

Performance  Transmissions 
Rt.  54  West  (935-5352) 

SUPERWASH 

Studio  54  Hair  & Tanning  Salon 
(935-5484) 

Merna  M.  Tucker 
DeWitt  County  Circuit  Clerk 

Murphy  Trucking 

R.R.  1 Box  241  Clinton  (935-8292) 

City  of  Clinton 

Mayor,  Commissioners,  & Staff 

Congratulations  Class  of  '92 
The  Prescription  Shoppe 

National  Environmental  Services 
R.R.  4 Box  243L  Clinton 


Hope  you  have  a successful  future  Class  of  '92 
Gary  Riegel,  DDS 


McElroy  Metal  Mill 
Rt.  10  East  Clinton,  IL  61727 


BLUE  MOONS  do 


Ace  Hardware 
Lootie  Adcock 
Baum  Chevrolet  Bulck  Geo 
Chandler  W.  Brown,  E.A. 

Casey's  General  Store 
Clinton  Dairy  Queen 
Clinton  Medical  Association 
Clinton  Travel  Agency 
Coastal  Convenience  Mart 
Cross  Bros.,  Inc. 

Dan's  Welding 
Days  Inn  of  Clinton 

DeWitt  County  Federal  Savings  & Loan 

Dr.  Weinberg 

Drs.  Gordon  & Gordon 

The  Flower  Corner 

Tom  Gaff,  Edward  D.  Jones 

George  H.  Dunn 

The  Greeks 

Harris  TV  and  Appliance 
H & M Trucking 
Jr.  Food  Mart 


JTPA 

Kelley's 

Lobb  Printing 

Major  Disposal 

Martin  Auction  Co.,  Inc. 

Modern  Cleaners 
Monical's  Pizza 
NAPA  Auto  Parts 
Revere  Ware  Corporation 
Rich's  Home  Center 
Shinny's  Sales  & Services 
Kay  Tennill 

Thrall  Car  Manufacturing 

Todd  Uniform 

Triple  K Construction 

Utterback  Real  Estate 

Wal-Mart 

Walker  Tire 

Watkins  Jewelry 

Wilson  Chrysler-Douglas  Olds 

Helen  Pollock  "You  Did  it  Rob  Pollock!! 


159 


Senior  Directory 


Gina  Alsup — Volleyball  1,  2,  3,  4;  Chorus  1,  2,  3,  4; 
Flag  Corps  1,  2,  3,  4;  Library  Club  2. 

Jared  Anderson — Football  1,  2,  4;  Scholastic  Bowl 

1,  2,  3,  4;  J.E.T.S.  3,  4;  Foreign  Language  Club  3, 
4;  Thespians  3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4. 

Ryan  Archey — Football  1,  2,  3,  4;  Football  Captain 
4;  Basketball  1,  2,  3,  4;  Thespians  2,  3,  4;  S.A.D.D. 
4;  Varsity  Club  3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4;  Track  1. 

Jacque  Bray— S.A.D.D.  2,  3,  4;  S.A.D.D.  Public  Af- 
fairs Director  3,  4;  Foreign  Language  Club  2,  3,  4; 
F.L.C.  Co-president  4;  Thespians  2,  3,  4;  Wrestling 
Stats  2 

Shari  Brinkley — Student  Council  1;  Cheerleading  1, 

2,  3;  Foreign  Language  Club  2;  Class  Officer  3; 
S.A.D.D.  2;  Thespians  3. 

Kasie  Coy — Wrestling  Stats  1,  2,  3,  4. 

Bill  Dubson — Baseball  1,  2,  4;  Basketball  1,  4; 
S.A.D.D.  2,  3. 

Dionna  Earl — Flag  Corps  3,  4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  2, 

3,  4;  Student  Council  1,  2,  3,  4;  Student  Council 
Secretary  4;  S.A.D.D.  1,  2,  3,  4;  Class  Officer  4; 
Foreign  Language  Club  2,  3,  4;  F.H.A.  1,  3;  Library 
Club  1;  N.H.S.  3,  4. 

Brad  Gordon — Football  1;  Golf  2,  3,  4;  Baseball  1, 
2;  Basketball  1,  2,  3,  4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  3,  4;  Var- 
sity Club  3,  4. 

Amber  Graves — Cheerleading  1,  2,  3;  Thespians  2, 
3,  4;  Chorus  2,  3;  Super  Secretaries  4. 

Stephanie  Hager— Track  1,  2;  Softball  3;  Foreign 
Language  Club  2,  3,  4;  F.L.C.  Vice-president  4; 
S.A.D.D.  2,  4;  Student  Council  2,  3,  4;  Student 
Council  Vice-president  4;  Thespians  3,  4;  Varsity 
Club  3;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  4;  Yearbook  4. 

Julie  Heap — S.A.D.D.  2;  Foreign  Language  Club  So- 
cial Director  2;  Cheerleading  1,  2,  3;  Class  Officer 
2,  3;  Prom  Committee  3;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  2,  3,  4; 
C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  Secretary  3;  Thespians  3,  4; 
Thespians  Secretary  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4;  N.H.S.  Vice- 
president  4. 

Kristi  Helton — Thespians  2,  3,  4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S. 


160  Senior  Directory 


2,  3,  4;  S.A.D.D.  2,  3,  4;  S.A.D.D.  President  3,  4; 
“M”  Squad  1,  2,  3,  4;  Foreign  Language  Club  2, 

3,  4;  F.L.C.  Secretary  4;  Class  Officer  2,  4;  Year- 
book Assistant  Editor  4;  Prom  Committee  3. 

Marci  Hoke — Softball  1;  Super  Secretaries  2,  3,  4. 

Mary  Hovis — S.A.D.D.  2,  3,  4;  Foreign  Language 
Club  2,  3,  4;  F.L.C.  Social  Director  4. 

Rebekah  Imig — S.A.D.D.  2,  3,  4;  Thespians  3,  4;  Pep 
Club  4;  Foreign  Language  Club  1,  2. 

Bobbie  Isaac— “M”  Squad  1,  2,  3,  4;  “M”  Squad 
Secretary  4;  S.A.D.D.  Treasurer  3,  4;  Student 
Council  Representative  2,  3;  Foreign  Language 
Club  2,  3,  4;  F.L.C.  Social  Director  4;  Varsity  Club 
3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4;  J.E.T.S.  3;  Yearbook  Co-editor 
4;  Prom  Committee  3;  Homecoming  Committee 
2. 

Cheri  Jent— ' “M”  Squad  1,  2,  3,  4;  “M”  Squad  Stu- 
dent Council  Representative  2,  3;  S.A.D.D.  2,  3, 
4;  S.A.D.D.  Class  Representative  3,  4;  Foreign 
Langauge  Club  2,  3,  4;  Varsity  Club  3,  4;  Prom 
Committee  3;  Pep  Club  4. 

Denise  Korneman — Cheerleading  1,  2,  3,  4;  S.A.D.D. 
2,  3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  3,  4;  Foreign 
Language  Club  2;  Varsity  Club  3,  4;  Class  Officer 
2,  3. 

Tricia  Lowrey — Volleyball  1,  2,  3,  4;  Basketball  1, 
2,  3,  4;  Softball  1,  2,  3,  4;  Cheerleading  1,  2;  Stu- 
dent Council  1,  2;  Varsity  Club  3,  4; 
C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  2,  3,  4;  Foreign  Language  Club 
2,  3,  4;  Scholastic  Bowl  1. 

Bryce  McCleary — Football  1,  2,  3,  4;  Football  Cap- 
tain 4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  4;  Varsity  Club  3,  4; 
S.A.D.D.  4;  Yearbook  4. 

Wendy  McKinzey— Class  Officer  1;  Volleyball  1; 
Basketball  1,  2;  Track  1,  2,  3,  4;  Super  Secretaries 

1,  2,  3,  4;  Cross  Country  2,  3,  4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S. 
2;  S.A.D.D.  2;  Thespians  2,  3,  4;  Flag  Corps  2,  3. 

Abby  Motsinger — C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  2,  3;  Cheerlead- 
ing 1,  2,  3;  S.A.D.D.  1,  2;  Foreign  Language  Club 

2,  3;  Student  Council  1,  2;  Super  Secretaries  4; 
Class  Officer  3,  4. 


Bev  Nannini — Volleyball  1,  3,  4;  Class  Officer  1; 
Scholastic  Bowl  1,  4;  J.E.T.S.  3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4; 
Club  Interact  3,  4;  Club  Interact  President  3; 
C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  3,  4;  Foreign  Language  Club  3, 
4;  Varsity  Club  4;  Student  Council  1,  4;  Student 
Council  President  4. 

Brandi  Newman — Super  Secretaries  3,  4. 

Thai  Son  Pham — Art  Club  1,  2,  3,  4;  Foreign  Lan- 
guage Club  3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4;  Student  Council  4; 
J.E.T.S.  4;  Scholastic  Bowl  4;  Wrestling  2,  3. 

Debbie  Willis — “M”  Squad  1,  2,  3,  4;  Student  Coun- 
cil 2,  3;  Student  Council  Secretary  3;  S.A.D.D.  2, 
3,  4;  S.A.D.D.  Secretary  3,  4;  Scholastic  Bowl  2, 
3,  4;  C.A.P.T.A.I.N.S.  2,  3,  4;  N.H.S.  3,  4;  Varsity 
Club  4;  Foreign  Language  Club  3,  4;  F.L.C.  Pres- 
ident 4. 

Melanie  Wilson — S.A.D.D.  2,  3,  4;  Super  Secretaries 
4;  Class  Officer  1;  Yearbook  4. 


Renee  Workman — Student  Council  2;  Super  Secre- 
taries 3,  4;  S.A.D.D.  2;  Prom  Committee  3. 


Senior  Directory  161 


162  Their  Day 


THE  LAST  STEP 


A 

Acuna,  Francine  120 
Adams,  Dean  93 
Adams,  Joe  21,  27 
Adcock,  James  91 
Akers,  Jonathon  54 
Alexander,  Joe  65,  82 
Alexander,  Melody 
21 

Allison,  Pat  36,  94 
Alsup,  Gina  14,  15, 
41 

Anderson,  Heather  22 
Anderson,  Jared  26, 
39,  63,  124,  132 
Anderson,  Susan  34, 
35,  84 

Andrew,  Jennifer  20 
Andrews,  Thomas 
117 

Archey,  Gary  95 
Archey,  Ryan  39,  63, 
103,  125,  14 
Arnold,  Clarene  34, 
91 

Arnold,  Sam  22,  35 
Arnold,  Sherry  33,  35 
Arteman,  Meghan  35 
Arteman,  Valarie  83 
Arthur,  Mervin  55 
Ashby,  Brian  84 
Austin,  Alvin  94 
Austin,  John  22 

B 

Baird,  Tad  31,  63, 
103,  110,  12 
Baker,  Matt  82 
Ballenger,  Brian  21 
Barger,  Brenda  118 
Barry,  James  71,  122, 
124 

Bartels,  Christopher 
115 

Basden,  Danielle  23 
Basham,  Angie  83 
Bates,  Tony  82 
Bateson,  Bobbie  84 


Bateson,  Randy  22 
Bateson,  Sara  22 
Bauersachs,  Christy 
17,  82 

Bauersachs,  Jerry  89, 
96,  132 

Beadles,  Stephanie 
36,  107,  118,  119,  1 
Beck,  Stephanie  22 
Bergles,  Ray  88,  90, 
93 

Bernard,  Michael  27, 
55 

Best,  Kimberly  35,  82 
Bevins,  Melissa  36, 
115 

Bezier,  Stephanie  45, 
53,  83,  116,  132 
Black,  Ryan  20,  141 
Blessing,  Bud  93 
Blessing,  Candace  83 
Bloch,  Matthew  1 14 
Bloch,  Rebecca  16, 
32,  84,  85,  107 
Bloch,  Sarah  14,  16, 
21,  35 

Blue,  Adam  21 
Blue,  Jim  58,  141 
Bock,  Courtney  12, 
58 

Bostwick,  Doug  62, 
63,  103,  114,  14 
Bostwick,  Brooke  23, 
79,  107 

Bourne,  Kyle  58,  141 
Boysen,  James  21 
Brady,  Christopher  22 
Brady,  Edward  22, 
141 

Brady,  Matthew  83 
Brady,  Terry  55 
Brand,  Michael  57 
Bray,  Jacque  33,  44, 
120 

Bray,  Kimberly  120, 
121 

Brennan,  Dusty  56 
Briggs,  Paul  21 
Brinkley,  Shari  5, 
103,  125 

Brokish,  Jeffrey  21, 


26,  27 

Brown,  Jennifer  41, 
103,  125 

Brown,  Sherrie  17,  82 
Brown,  Tiffany  21,  42 
Bryan,  Stephanie  84 
Bryant,  Michael  40, 
92 

Buraglio,  Nicholas  84 
Burge,  Tequila  20 
Burger,  Jeff  91,  141 
Bush,  George  2 
Butler,  Jared  20 
Byrd,  Jeff  82,  89,  109, 
111 

c 

Callison,  Jared  26,  38, 
42,  82,  104 
Cameron,  Karen  1 2, 
57 

Campbell,  Anthony 
57 

Canfield,  Marshall 
103,  121,  124 
Carter,  James  2 
Carter,  Joshua  56,  59, 
141 

Carter,  Judson  22 
Carter,  Melinda  118 
Carter,  Michael  162 
Chambers,  Michael 
20 

Chapman,  Keith  114 
Chapman,  Tracy  57 
Chick,  Gregory  20 
Chrispen,  Dale  57 
Clark,  Douglas  80 
Clark,  Mike  79,  91 
Clark,  Renee  47,  82 
Clymer,  Beverly  20 
Clymer,  Chasity  84, 

107 

Conaty,  William  7,  41 
Condie,  Ronald  84, 
141 

Conn,  Shawn  82 
Conn,  Wendy  80,  83, 

108 

Connelly,  Ryan  21, 


141 

Connelly,  Sara  57, 
107 

Conners,  Emily  26, 
54,  107 

Conover,  Darrel  1 14, 
117 

Conover,  Paula  21, 
117 

Cook,  Bret  57 
Coon,  Stuart  92 
Cooper,  Betsy  22 
Cooper,  Brently  22, 
144 

Cooper,  Brian  37,  82 
Cooper,  David  82 
Cornell,  Jason  21 
Cornwell,  Travis  30, 
54,  141 

Cors,  Steven  91 
Costa,  Pat  71,  114, 
134 

Courtright,  Jill  82 
Cox,  Nicole  20 
Crispen,  Tracy  21 
Crutcher,  Sondra  21 
Cutright,  Brad  7,  64, 
82,  109 

Cyrulik,  Shae  56 

D 

Dahler,  Jessica  58 
Dahler,  Todd  83 
Daneker-Cope,  Mich- 
elle 83 

Daniels,  Joe  27,  28, 
53,  55 

Daniels,  Will  37,  78, 
82 

Danison,  Erik  22 
Davenport,  Carol  91 
Davenport,  Sara  2 1 , 
66 

Davis,  April  20,  35 
Davis,  Charlie  56 
Davis,  Wayne  56,  141 
Day,  Heather  83 
Decker,  Josh  13,  54, 
59 

Decker,  Mark  58 


Index 


Deerwester,  Joshua  21 
Defebaugh,  Jenifer  81 
Defebaugh,  Timothy 
84 

Delmonico,  David  22 
Dennis,  Brian  115 
Devore,  Jamie  20 
Diener,  Karl  67,  93 
Dodd,  Jeffrey  58 
Dodds,  Terry  1 15 
Doggett,  Brian  22 
Doggett,  Michael  63, 

119,  122,  141 
Donovan,  Marci  22 
Douglas,  Anthony 

116 

Douglas,  Stacey  22 
Drake,  Jason  4,  63, 

120,  121,  123 
Dubson,  Bill  118,  123 
Dubson,  Melinda  56 
Dukeman,  Gretchen 

58 

Dulany,  Travis  82 
Duling,  Susan  93 
Duncan,  Christina  82 

E 

Earl,  Brad  20 
Earl,  Dionna  27,  30, 
33,  114,  124 
Emerson,  Megan  58 
Evans,  Kim  21 
Evans,  Kristi  22 
Evans,  Timothy  54 
Ewing,  Brian  83 

F 

Fairfield,  Jason  63, 
82,  141 

Fatheree,  Amy  21 
Fenton,  John  22 
Ferguson,  Scott  59 
Fields,  Shirley  93 
Fisher,  Jennifer  58 
Fleming,  Mike 
Foehr,  Russell  71,  84, 
108,  141 
Follis,  Jake  54 
Followell,  Phillip  84 
Ford,  Gerald  2 
Fort,  Joshua  23,  141 
Fort,  Scott  30 


Friesland,  Aaron  81 
Fry,  Dolores  88,  93 

G 

Gall,  Mark  58 
Galuszka,  Belinda 
122 

Garcia,  Malu  45,  107, 
116,  134 

Geesaman,  Greg  84 
Gentry,  Jason  83,  121 
Gentry,  Sara  36,  57 
Gibson,  Lynnette  20 
Gibson,  Rebecca  118 
Gillespey,  Donnie  22 
Glenn,  Andrea  5,  82, 
107 

Goddard,  Katie  54 
Goddard,  Matthew 
20,  141 

Goode,  Chuck  56 
Goodmon,  Andrew 
42,  83 

Goodwin,  Kristina  57 
Goodwin,  Lisa  15,  57, 
76 

Goodwin,  Ron  62 
Gorbachev,  Mikhail 
2,  3 

Gordon,  Brad  31,  64, 
120 

Gore,  Lisa  56 
Graber,  Ross  22,  33, 
35,  43 

Graves,  Amber  88, 
103,  117,  119 
Graves,  Chad  56 
Graves,  Pam  9 
Gregory,  Joel  80 
Griswold,  Jennifer  84 
Gutierrez,  Jennifer  82 
Gyuran,  Shallon  20 

H 

Hackett,  Justin  20 
Hager,  Carol  9 
Hager,  Mike  9 
Hager,  Stephanie  30, 
44,  46,  102,  124 
Hale,  Greg  37,  118 
Hale,  Jonathon  38,  46, 
41,  86,  104 
Hamblem,  Rick  80 


Hammer,  Chris  26, 
32,  82,  141 
Hammer,  Douglas  57, 
71,  141 

Hansen,  Maria  34,  35, 
82 

Hardwick,  Jamie  22 
Hardwick,  Michael 
Todd  21 

Harmon,  Ka-Tina  83 
Harney,  Richard  55 
Harney,  Rick  42 
Harris,  Bart  83 
Harris,  Jill  80,  82 
Harris,  Joseph  20 
Harvey,  Melissa  43, 
120 

Harvey,  Melissa  120 
Heap,  Julie  29,  31,  38, 
52,  103 

Heath,  Richard  37, 
125 

Heiberg,  Angelia  57 
Helton,  Ben  39,  54, 
57,  141 

Helton,  Kristi  15,  31, 
32,  33,  38 
Hendriex,  Chad  58 
Hendriex,  Michael 
143 

Hendrix,  Dan  30,  56 
Henson,  Sara  81 
Herrin,  Christine  23, 
107 

Herzog,  Chad  54,  55 
Hickerson,  Jill  28,  82 
Hilbrick,  Timothy  2 
Hill,  Anita  2 
Hinton,  Jeremy  141 
Hoback,  Leonard  1 1 6 
Hoff,  Eric  56 
Hoffman,  Jamie  20 
Hogan,  Jan  93 
Hoke,  Carla  22 
Hoke,  Marci  114,  117 
Holmes,  Jarrod  58, 
141 

Holt,  Ryan  81 
Hooker,  Richard  55 
Hovis,  Mary  119, 
124,  125 

Howell,  Zachary  35, 
58 

Hoye,  Carin  117 
Huffman,  David  5 


Huffman,  Ronald  84 
Huffman,  William  23 
Hughes,  Heather  80 
Hughes,  Holly  80 
Hunt,  Leslie  35,  80, 
82 

Hussein,  Saddam  2,  3 

I 

Imig,  Rebekah  32,  43, 
46,  120 

Ingram,  Valarie  83 
Isaac,  Bobbie  33,  47, 
125 

Isringhausen,  Jayme 
115 

J 


Jent,  Cheri  33,  44, 
109,  119,  12 
Jent,  Ryan  20 
Jimison,  Raymond  58 
Johns,  Jesse  55,  141 
Johnson,  Amy  23 
Johnson,  Matthew 
118 

Jones,  D.  Ann  38,  88, 
93 

Jones,  Nikolai  20,  141 
Joss,  Savilla  27,  52, 
85,  87 

K 

Karr,  Jason  108,  1 19, 
125 

Karr,  Kristofer  70, 
103,  120 

Karr,  Nicole  15,  83, 
36,  121 

Keane,  Patrick  80 
Kelley,  Summer  83 
Kelly,  Sean  23 
Kerley,  Andrew  58, 
141 

Kielar,  Adrienne  20 
Kiick,  Brad  94 
Killian,  David  21 
Kivlehan,  Edward  20 
Kleiss,  Faith  135 
Kline.  Betty  91 
Knutson,  Brian  6,  90 
Koritz,  Karle  22,  27 


Index  165 


Koritz,  Scott  1 16 
Korneman,  Denise  26, 
29,  33,  36,  69 
Koshinski,  Angela  56 
Kress,  Brandy  7,  33, 

42,  54 

Kress,  Tracey  33,  39, 
82 

Kuntz,  Jenny  12,  27, 
41,  58 

Kuntz,  Richard  42, 

43,  114 

L 

Lacroix,  William  56, 
65 

Laffey,  Sandra  6,  44, 
90 

Landstrom,  Craig  21 
Lane,  Jason  57 
Lane,  Kenny  23 
Lane,  Kristin  116 
Lash,  Steve  84 
Latham,  Joanna  20 
Lehman,  Bill  42,  84 
Lehman,  Charles  88, 
90 

Leimbach,  Matthew 

83 

Leimbach,  Sara  35,  57 
Lemmel,  Brooke  40, 
22 

Lemmel,  David  20 
Lighthall,  Matthew  54 
Lisk,  Matt  83 
Lobano,  Jaime  56 
Lobano,  Rosamarie 

84 

Lobb,  Rachel  111, 
115 

Long,  Adam  55,  141 
Long,  Sherry  56 
Lovall,  Dawn  1 18 
Lowe,  Johnney  22 
Lowers,  Ben  42,  83 
Lowrey,  Tricia  66,  76, 
103,  108,  II 
Lusch,  Terah  57 
Luttrell,  Cary  41,  43, 
46,  58,  120 

M 

Madix,  Marcy  21 


166  Index 


Maier,  Thomas  57, 
59,  141 

Malone,  Steve  56 
Mandrell,  Gregory  84 
Mandrell,  Phillip  163 
Manning,  Duke  83 
Mannix,  Jeff  63,  83, 
85,  141 

Mansell,  Janette  83 
Mansell,  Joel  83 
Martens,  Paul  54,  141 
Martin,  Andrew  4 
Martin,  Christopher 
21 

Martin,  Sara  23 
Mathias,  Amy  12,  84, 
108,  110 

Maxwell,  Beth  20,  32, 
107 

Maxwell,  Jennifer  57 
May,  Kathryn  22 
McCleary,  Bryce  47, 
63,  103,  114,  11 
McGhee,  Tim  84 
McGuire,  Molly  120 
McKinzey,  Darrell  93 
McKinzey,  Jason  20 
McKinzey,  Wendy 
120 

Mearida,  Doug  83 
Mears,  Jared  55,  141 
Metz,  Jeffrey  20 
Michel,  Mark  84,  141 
Mills,  Carey  83 
Mills,  Jackie  56 
Mills,  Shane  57,  78, 
141 

Mills,  Tracey  57 
Moddy,  Scott  58 
Moefield,  Laurie  83 
Molitoris,  Brian  21, 
141 

Monroe,  James  90 
Montross,  Stephanie 
84 

Monts,  Angela  21 
Monts,  Billiemarie  94 
Moore,  Jason  21 
Moore,  Jenny  26,  55, 
59,  110 

Morris,  Joshua  23 
Morris,  Marcia  56 
Morrow,  Samantha  58 
Motsinger,  Abby  102, 
118 


Munds,  Robert  91 
Musick,  Bill  35 

N 

Nagel,  Charles  85,  94 
Nagy,  Adam  56,  59, 
141 

Nagy-Greenwood, 
Angela  35,  84 
Nannini,  Beverly  26, 
67,  30,  31,  44 
Nauman,  Justin  56,  65 
Nelson,  Brian  81 
Nelson,  Melissa  13, 
56,  107,  110 
Nelson,  Paula  93 
Newberry,  Angela  20 
Newberry,  Stacy  29, 
31,  107,  114,  13 
Newman,  Brandi  120 
Nichols,  Ben  55,  141 
Nixon,  Richard  2 
Nixon,  Shari  20 
Norrington,  Todd  15, 
42,  43,  115,  122 
Nunnery,  Amy  42 
Nunnery,  Angie  56 
Nunnery,  Sara  58 

o 

Obcrmcycr,  Brant  15, 
116 

Ogle,  Gina  84 
Oleson,  Charles  80 
Olson,  Amy  94 

P 

Parson,  Matt  54,  57, 
141 

Patel,  Neha  20 
Patterson,  Brian  4,  14, 
42,  115 

Peavler,  Brian  63,  70, 
1 14,  141 
Peck,  Erica  82 
Peck,  Travis  21,  141 
Peppers,  Patricia  21 
Perez,  Sonia  21 
Peters,  Melissa  52, 
67,  83 

Pham,  Thai  Son  26, 
52.  118,  134 


Pine,  Curtis  55 
Pister,  Toby  80 
Polen,  Mark  14 
Polen,  Matthew  22 
Pollock,  Robert  117 
Pollock,  Wes  42,  55 
Potts,  Terry  83 
Powers,  Brian  82 
Powers,  Kelli  23 
Powers,  Kristi  43,  84 
Powless,  Amber  82 
Prather,  Donald  35, 
94 

Puckett,  Amy  20 
Purkes,  Michelle  40, 
41,  57,  59 

Purkes,  Stephanie  43, 
82 

Q 

Queer  II,  James  22, 
141 

R 

Rasor,  Aaron  20,  42 
Reagan,  Ronald  2 
Reinhardt,  Jennifer  58 
Reynolds,  Celia  57 
Rhodes,  Dorothy  94 
Rich,  Amanda  105 
Rich,  Josh  13,  27,  43, 
69,  80 

Ridenhour,  Kesha  35, 
83 

Ridenhour,  Dustin  21 
Ridgeway,  Cletus 
123,  124 

Riegel,  Anthony  82, 
108 

Roberts,  Cassandra  2 1 
Roberts,  Connie  56 
Roberts,  Sarah  34,  57 
Roberts,  Tracy  67,  80, 
81,  108 

Rodgers,  Kristina  58 
Rogers,  Shilo  83,  85 
Rogers,  Tyler  22 
Rossio,  Wendy  20 
Rubenacker,  Amy 
120 

Russell,  Douglas  54 
Russell,  Sheila  22 
Russell,  Tina  1 18 


Rybolt,  Richard  63, 
121,  122,  141 

S 

Sams,  Andrea  21,  33 
Sams,  Eric  84 
Sams,  Natalie  66,  75, 
103,  120 

Samson,  Chad  42,  82 
Sayers,  Rusty  35 
Schneider,  Matthew 
57 

Schottel,  Jennifer  13, 
14,  15,  28,  32,  69, 
82 

Schwarzkopf,  H.  Nor- 
man 2,  3 

Scoggins,  Denny  7, 
12 

Scoles,  Debbie  5,  83 
Scott,  Doug  58,  141 
Scott,  Roger  70,  83, 
141 

Seaman,  Clint  20,  141 
Sessions,  Amy  21 
Sessions,  Eric  5,  82 
Shannon,  Tracy  83 
Sharp,  Ryan  56 
Shelton,  Kathy  28,  89, 
91 

Shepherd,  Dyan  36, 
84,  107 

Shepherd,  Lea  83 
Shepherd,  Shelley  22 
Shonk,  Heather  21 
Short,  Gina  58 
Simmerman,  Christo- 
pher 21 

Sizemore,  Debi  80 
Smart,  Kevin  56 
Smart,  William  22 
Smith,  Angela  55 
Smith,  Karma  1 15 
Smith,  Nikki  84 
Smith,  Tracey  21 
Snyder,  Craig  58,  141 
Snyder,  Jason  1 16 
Sowers,  Keri  22 
Sowers,  Steve  84 
Spainhour,  Brandi  84 


Spencer,  Amanda  20, 
107 

Sprague,  Alicia  43,  54 
Stapleton,  Tiffany  83 
Stephens,  Amy  42,  84 
Stephens,  Jason  40, 
57 

Stephenson,  Andrew 
22 

Stephenson,  Vanessa 
20 

Steward,  Moriah  54 
Stith,  Jason  12,  54, 
141 

Strain,  Galen  88,  94 
Streight,  Dennis  94 
Stroup,  Ray  64,  83 
Sugg,  Jerami  22 

T 

Tanner,  Jimmy  84 
Taylor,  Andrew  22 
Taylor,  Jacqueline  22 
Taylor,  Jon  63,  117, 
141 

Taylor,  Lance  20 
Taylor,  Rachel  80 
Taylor,  Ryan  20 
Templeton,  Larry  92 
Tennill,  Kay  92 
Tennison,  Richard  26, 
82 

Tennison,  Stacey  58 
Thomas,  Clarence  3 
Thomas,  Julie  55 
Thoms,  Patricia  82 
Thoms,  Ron  82 
Thorpe,  Karl  20,  141 
Tilley,  Kristen  12,  13, 
84,  110 

Tilley,  Matthew  23 
Timmons,  Virginia  84 
Torbert,  Amie  57,  69, 
107,  110 

Torbert,  Jamie  14,  15, 
54,  58,  69 

Trago,  Cathy  32,  84 
Trent,  Doris  93 
Triezenburg,  Eldon  89 


Trotter,  Laura  12,  57 
Tuggle,  Kimberly  23, 
28,  59 

Tuggle,  Tricia  14,  15, 
82 

Turney,  Chastity  14, 

21,  110 

Tyler,  Jacob  21 

u 

Underwood,  Jennifer 
81 

Utter,  Joe  26,  82 
Utterback,  Laura  56 

V 

Van  Apledoorn,  Gina 
44,  56 

Van  Cong,  Hoai  163 
Vandervort,  Michael 
114 

VanFossan,  Shane  15, 
21,  42,  43,  141 
Vogel,  Angela  57 

w 

Walston,  Amanda  21 
Walston,  Tasha  16, 
27,  56 

Wantland,  Heather 
117 

Wantland,  Ross  22 
Waterhouse,  David  84 
Webb,  Courtney  83 
Webb,  Cynthia  84 
Webb,  Darci  15,  26, 
38,  83 

Webb,  Justin  23 
Weidner,  William  80 
Weiss,  John  22,  141 
Weiss,  Stephanie  13, 
58,  59 

Welch,  Lynn  83 
Wells,  Crystal  84 
Werts,  Kay  32,  92 
West,  Ryan  82 
Westerfield,  Betty 
162 


Wheat,  Theresa  121 
Wheeler,  Amy  36,  83 
Wheeler,  Joshua  54 
Wheeler,  Nathan  22 
White,  Anita  83 
White,  James  81 
White,  Joel  26,  90 
Whitney,  Marjorie  34, 
118 

Wiegel,  Nekeisha  58 
Williams,  George  94 
Williamson,  Richard 
80 

Willis,  Debbie  4,  29, 
33,  125 

Wilson,  Belinda  22 
Wilson,  Camie  20 
Wilson,  Daniel  84 
Wilson,  Joseph  57 
Wilson,  Melanie  14, 
108,  116 

Winchell,  Tari  84 
Windhorn,  Jami  54 
Winebrinner,  Hillari 
58 

Winstead,  Tim  82 
Wise,  Heather  20,  65 
Wollet,  Max  64,  103, 
111,  117 

Wooldridge,  Heather 
80,  81,  108 
Woollen,  Kimberly 
43,  84,  85 
Woollen,  Rob  22 
Workman,  Renee  1 15, 
117,  119 

Wrage,  Jason  15,  26, 
27,  39,  44 
Wrage,  Jeffrey  23 
Wunderlich,  Doris  91 
Wylder,  George  90 

Y 

Yeltsin,  Boris  2,  3 
Young,  Eric  20,  141 

z 

Zartler,  Steve  90,  92 
Zieman,  Angie  34,  56 


Index  167 


THE  END 

1992  GRADUATES 

Francine  Deirdre  Acuna 

Faith  Omias  Kleiss 

Gina  Marie  Alsup 

Scott  Jerrel  Koritz 

Jared  Michael  Anderson* 

Denise  Annette  Komeman* 

Thomas  H.  Andrews 

Richard  Francis  Kuntz 

Ryan  Charles  Archey* 

Kristin  Leigh  Lane 

Tad  B.  Baird 

Rachel  Ren  ee  Lobb 

James  Floyd  Barry 

Dawn  Marie  Lovall 

Christopher  Terry  Lee  Bartels 

Tricia  Kay  Lowrey 

Stephanie  Anne  Beadles 

Cary  F.  Luttrell 

Melissa  Kristin  Bevins 

Terry  Michael  Malone 

Stephanie  Bezier 

Phillip  Dorr  an  Mandrell 

Matthew  James  Bloch 

Andrew  M.  Martin 

Douglas  Bradford  Bostwick 

Bryce  Randel  McCleary 

Jacqueline  Louise  Bray 

Molly  Sue  McGuire 

Kimberly  Anne  Bray 

Wendy  Jo  McKinzey 

Shari  Nicole  Brinkley 

Joshua  Jon  Morrow 

Jennifer  R.  Brown 

Abby  Christine  Motsinger 

Marshall  Aaron  Canfield 

Beverly  Jean  Nannini* 

Melinda  K.  Carter 

Stacy  Dawn  Newberry* 

Michael  Dewayne  Carter 

Brandi  Michelle  Newman 

Keith  Allen  Chapman 

Michael  Todd  Norrington 

Darrell  Dean  Conover 

Brant  James  Obermeyer 

Patrick  T.  Costa 

Brian  Leslie  Patterson 

Brian  Scott  Dennis 

Brian  M.  Peavler 

Terry  William  Dodds 

Thai  Son  Pham* 

Michael  Shane  Doggett 

Amy  Michelle  Rubenacker 

Anthony  Lynn  Douglas 

Tina  L.  Russell 

Jason  Lee  Drake 

Richard  Jason  Rybolt 

Billy  Ray  Dubson 

Natalie  Jean  Sams 

Dionna  Kay  Earl* 

Jesse  Joseph  Schmid 

Malu  V.  Garcia 

Michael  David  Schwab 

! Rebecca  JeanAnne  Gibson 

Karma  Michelle  Smith 

Brad  Clayton  Gordon 

Jason  Karl  Snyder 

Amber  Nicole  Graves 

Jonathan  David  Taylor 

Stephanie  A.  Hager 

Mary  Grace  Thayer 

Gregory  William  Hale 

Michael  Lynn  Underwood 

Julia  Ann  Heap* 

Hoai  Van  Cong 

Richard  Lee  Heath,  Jr. 

Layton  M.  Vandervort 

Kristi  Marie  Helton 

Heather  Michelle  Wantland 

Leonard  Jacob  Hoback 

Betty  Jean  Westerfield 

Marci  Ellen  Hoke 

Rebecca  Sue  Wheat 

Carin  Rae  Hoye 

Theresa  M.  Wheat 

Rebekah  Ann  Imig 

Marjorie  Renae  Whitney 

Bobbie  Jo  Isaac* 

Debra  Ann  Willis* 

Jayme  J.  Isringhausen 

Melanie  Dawn  Wilson* 

Cheri  Lynn  Jent 

Max  Anthony  Wollet 

Jason  Dale  Karr 

Renee  Anne  Workman 

Kristofer  Addison  Karr 

Jason  R.  Wrage* 

•Indicates  membership  in  National  Honor  Society 

168  The  End 

