3G[j?  laptiHt  U  wnri 


JOURNAL  OF  THE  MISSISSIPPI  BAPTIST  CONVENTION 


Thonday,  NovcalMr  5, 1992 


PttUMied  Since  1877 


Faith  of  Chick-fil-A  founder  reflected  in  company 


ATLANTA  (BP)  —  When  the 
readers  of  Bosiness  Atlanta  were 
asked  to  choose  their  city’s  most 
respected  CEO,  they  bypassed 
high-profile  executives  such  as 
T^  Turner  and  Coca-Cola  (Thief 
Executive  Roberto  Goizueta. 

Instead,  drey  selected  a  fast-food 
chicken  magnate  and  Southern 
Baptist  layman,  Truett  Cathy,  a 
man  who  looks  like  everyone’s 
graiK^  and  whose  coipmate  goal 
doesn^t  fit  the  Fmtune  SOO  proto- 
type. 

An  engraved  plaque  comainmg 
his  goal  greets  all  visitors  to* 
(Thi<±-fil-A’s  Atlanta  headquar¬ 
ters:  To  glorify  God  by  bemg  a 
faithful  steward  of  all  that  is 
entrusted  to  os;  and  to  have  a  po^ 
five  influence  on  all  who  come  in 


contact  widi  Chick-fil-A.’’ 

In  1964,  Cathy  hiied  Chick-fil- 
A’s  first  em|doyee.  Todi^,  its  365 
restaurants  rank  No.  3  lutiotudly 
in  chicken  fast-food  sales. 

Ideas  come  from  God,  Cathy 
says,  but  “they  won’t  keep.  They 
have  to  be  act^  upon.”  A^  act  is 
what  Cathy  did  when  he  experi¬ 
mented  with  pressure-cooking  a 
bondess  dud^  breast  and  serv¬ 
ing  it  as  a  sandwich. 

(Talfay’s  round  face,  gentle  smile, 
and  lehnced  Southern  accent  dqrait 
from  foe  stereotype  of  the  harried 
executive.  But  ^  easy  manner 
should  not  be  misudeen  for  a  lack 
of  dMerminadon.  Behind  it  lies  a 
vigorous  faith  rooted  in  foe  belief 
that  succeeding  in  the  fast-food 
chicken  bosiness  is  (Sod’s  mission 


By  Carey  Kinsolving 
for  his  life. 

Jesus  said  something  that  every¬ 
one  knows,  but  few  believe,  (Tathy 
says:  “It  is  more  blessed  to  give 
fo^  to  receive." 

(Tafoy  finds  great  joy  in  giving, 
“especially  to  those  from  whom 
you  don’t  expect  anything  in 
return.  The  greatest  gift  of  ^  is 
the  promise  of  eternal  life.  If  we 
ate  goin^  to  be  the  recipients  of 
eter^  ufe  and  (Sod’s  blessings 
upon  os,  we  have  a  doty  to  give.” 

For  more  than  30  years,  (Tathy 
has  taught  a  Sunday  School  class 
of  13-year-old  boys  at  First 
(Thorch,  Jonesboro,  Ga.  He  tells 
foe  class  that  life  boils  down  to  foe 
three  Ms:  Who  will  be  your  mas¬ 
ter?  What  will  be  your  mission? 
Who  win  be  your  mate? 


Where  there’s  a  will:  church  finds  way  to 
baptize  wheelchair-bound  new  Christian 


HOBART,  Ind.  (BP)— When 
members  from  Sutmyside  Baptist 
in  Hobart,  Ind.,  first  visited  Ken¬ 
ney  Payne  to  share  foeir  faith  and 
hope  in  (Tbrist,  he  politely  refused 
their  attempts  to  interest  him  in 
attending  durch. 

Though  be  had  only  recently 
developed  multiple  sclerosis, 
Payne  was  no  longer  able  to  work 
and  expressed  a  great  deal  of  frus¬ 
tration  and  anger  over  his  disease. 
But  that  didn’t  stop  the  visits  from 
church  members  or  pastor  Bill 
Gibbs. 

After  two  years  of  deteriorating 
health,  Payne  was  admitted  to  a 
hospital  anid  doctors  were  not  sure 
be  would  live  much  longer. 
Breathing  had  become  diffi^t; 
his  muscles  lost  their  sttength. 


By  Tanud  Ledbctta* 

During  tins  time  in  the  boqxtaL 
while  I  was  visiting  with  Kerny,  I 
began  to  talk  to  him  about  the 
things  of  (Thrist  and  his  need  to 
know  him  as  personal  Savior,” 
Gibbs  recalled.  “Kenny  committed 
his  life  to  (Thrist  there  in  the  hoqx- 
talroom.” 

As  he  began  regaining  his 
strength,  Payne  shared  with  others 
about  his  commitment  to  (Thrist 
and  said  he  was  a  Southern  Bap¬ 
tist.  With  the  transfer  to  another 
hospital  and  completion  of  physi¬ 
cal  therapy,  be  improved  even 
more  and  eventually  went  to 
Oown  PoiiM  nursing  home.  There 
be  attended  various  worship  ser¬ 
vices  at  the  facility. 

“I  bad  forgotten  about  it,”  said 
Gibbs  as  be  trtid  of  Payne  calling 


Church  realizes  power  of  prayer  as 
man  is  saved  after  eight-year  vigil 


WOODSTOCK,  VL  (BP)  —  No 
one  had  come  forward.  John  Pate 
signaled  an  end  to  the  invitation: 
“Just  As  I  Am.” 

“I  want  to  thank  you  for  coming 
this  morning,”  Pate  said,  wrrmping 
up  Woodstock  Baptist  Fellow- 
smp’s  morning  worship  in  this 
Vetmoni  village  of  1,500.  “We’re 
here  to  meet  your  qnritual  needs. 
If  we  can  be^),  just  IM  ns  know.” 

Suddenly,  a  man  in  the  con^- 
gation  did  —  rooming  up,  raising 
arxl  waiving  his  narii^,  walking 
forward,  alinost  shouting,  “Is  there 
still  time  left?  I  want  to  accept 
Jesus  into  my  heart!” 

Many  of  the  50-itius  worshippers 


were  stunned;  then  emotions  and 
tears  began  to  flow;  tiiey  had  been 
praying  for  him  for,  maybe,  ei^ 
years. 

Pate,  pastor  of  the  church  the 
past  year  and  a  half,  had  hoped  for 
some  conversions  Oct  18  —  but 
hadn’t  dreamed  it  would  be  the 
early-408  man  who  bad  been 
atterrding  with  his  wife,  a  faithful 
Christian,  for  so  many  years  with¬ 
out  ever  making  a  decision  for 
(Thrist. 

Several  unsaved  persons  and 
their  families  had  b^  attending 
the  church  several  months,  and 
Pate  bad  them  in  mind  as  he  pre¬ 
pared  his  sermon. 


him  at  home  to  emphatically 
announce,  "I  want  to  join  the 
church.” 

(3ibbs  explained  brqrtism  was  a 
part  of  church  membership  and 
Payne  rq>lied,  “I  know.  I  retd  that 
in  the  bo^  you  gave  me.” 

Aware  of  the  complications  that 
would  result  from  Wyne’s  con¬ 
finement  to  a  wheelchair,  Gibbs 
assured  Payne  tiud  if  he  was  cer¬ 
tain  he  wanted  to  be  b^zed,  the 
church  would  make  it  possible. 
Payne  immediately  invited  his 
fainily  and  one  of  tus  nurses. 

“I  was  still  wondering  how  we 
were  going  to  accomphfo  the  task 
of  getting  Keimy  iq)  the  stairs  and 
down  into  the  bi^stry,”  Gibbs 
said.  That’s  when  he  deci^  such 
a  move  would  be  impossible  and 
defied  to  work  on  an  altenufove. 

A  farm  supply  conqnmy  in  Val¬ 
paraiso  loaned  a  large  watering 
trou^  which  was  set  at  flotH’  level 
in  foe  front  of  the  sanctuary  and 
several  men  were  enlisted  to  help 
lift  Payne  into  the  water  for  the 


“If  you  foul  up  on  any  (me  of 
those,  you  will  probably  be  miser- 
aUe,”  Cathy  said  in  an  interview. 

(Tathy  cemfesses  to  being  more 
pcqrolar  with  his  kids  after  Sunday 
School,  when  he  sometimes 
invites  them  to  go  dirt-lxke  riding 
at  his  farm.  On  the  road,  Atlanta’s 
most  re^)ected  CEO  may  be  seen 
aboard  a  Harley  Davicison  with 
young  bikers,  as  well  as  a  band  of 
Bwtist  old-timers  called  the  Hedy 
RoUers. 

But  on  Sunday,  don’t  look  for 
Cathy  or  his  employees  in  a 
(Thick-fil-A  restaurant.  They’re 
dosed.  Harvard  Business  Scfoool 
probably  wouldn’t  recommend 
(Ta^’s  p(dicy  but  be  defends  it  by 
saying  he  attracts  the  kind  of 
employees  who  want  to  attend 
chinch  oo  Sunday  and  spend  time 
wifo  their  families. 

Cathy  has  beard  all  foe  argu¬ 
ments  fm  staying  open  seven  (biys 
a  week,  but  a  slight  grin  can  be 
detected  when  he  says  his  restau- 
ranss  usuallv  generate  more  sales 
in  six  dr^  than  others  do  in  sevea 

As  a  child,  Cathy’s  elementary- 
school  teacher  reepnred  students  to 
submit  a  Bible  passage  for  a  verse 
of  tile  week.  (Tr^  chose  Proverbs 
22:1:  “A  good  name  is  rather  to  be 


chosen  than  great  riches.” 

(Tathy  has  managed  to  earn  both. 

Many  of  his  employees  think  of 
themselves  as  being  part  of  an 
extended  family  wifo  (Jatby  serv¬ 
ing  as  a  caring  patriarch.  Les 
Brown,  27,  started  working  for 
(Thi(±-fo-A  in  school,  while 
living  in  Fredricluborg,  Md.  He 
attended  college  using  Chick-fil-A 
scholarship  money  a^  continued 
working  part  time.  Today  he  oper¬ 
ates  Cathy’s  restaurant  in  the 
Landmark  Center  mall  in  Alexan¬ 
dria,  Va.,  and  expects  to  earn 
about  $70,000  from  sales  in  the 
neiriiboifacKxl  of  $800,000. 

^  was  raised  in  the  company,” 
Brown  said. 

And  closing  oo  Sunday?  “I  think 
it’s  great  thm’s  a  company  that 
will  make  that  kind  of  human 
investment,”  he  said.  “I  work 
about  six  days  a  week  so  I  need 
the  break.” 

Tik*  tus  employer.  Brown  can  be 
found  in  a  Bqitist  (fourch  oo  Sun¬ 
day  morning. 

Friends  of  en^oyees  ctxistitute 
85%  of  his  Stan,  Brown  said.  “I 
haven’t  lost  a  person  doe  to  dis¬ 
agreement  in  the  last  year.” 

Kinsolving  is  a  Washington- 
based  free-lance  writer. 


Making 
Missions 
Happen 


“Kenny’s  adamant 'commitment 
to  be  baptized  and  the  testimony  of 
his  biqitism  were  an  encourage¬ 
ment  and  a  challenge  to  every  one 
of  os,”  (libbs  said.  “There  were 
very  few  dry  eyes  that  morning 
and  many  choked  op  as  we  sang 
‘We  are  One  in  the  Bond  of  Love’ 
for  our  benediction. 

“It  was  certainly  the  most  unusu¬ 
al  bimtism  service  I  have  ever  bacT 
part  m  and  one  of  the  most  mean- 
mgfuL” 

Ledbetter  is  managing  editor 
of  INDIANA  BAPTIST. 


r 

Wij 

Boyal  Ambassador  Week 

SOUTHERN  BAPTIST  1-^  '*992 

UBRARY  AND  ARCHIVES 
Historical  Commission,  SBC 
Nashville,  Tennessee 


Editor’s  NmTumit  ^ 

What  are  we  about? 


Ask  this  qoestion  to  sn  soto  in  economic  and  political  realms.  Within  the  last  month,  I  have 
dealer,  a  supomaiket,  or  hardware  More  than  one  aomor  has  dedaied  heaed  a  dqrartment  dbector  in  the 
store  and  yon  get  a  straight  the  Tro^  hooe  ot  fanmanism  has  Baptist  Building  qniedy  tell  the 
answer.  ''We  adl  cars  —  or  food,  been  tolled  inside  ovr  walls  and  stoay  of  fcKing  a  person  lo  C3iiat; 
or  hardware.”  Ask  the  same  qi^  the  troaUesome  contents  are  ae^  of  a  lady  in  Ibe  Jackson  area  who 
don  to  a  cfamch  or  to  a  convention  ing  oat  A  woefol  ignorance  the  baked  a  cake  for  a  deqwndent  ooo- 
and  what  answer  do  we  receive?  Bible  has  sent  diadows  of  dark-  pie  and  later  returned  to  lead  both 
We  are  about  die  proclamadon  ness  creeping  over  the  land.  of  them  to  Jesus;  of  an  unsaved 

of  the  gospel  We  are  under  a  Only  dre  futhfol  podamadon  (rf  pcaon  who  told  a  store  owner  how 
to  ^iread  the  good  Ood’s  Word,  with  salvation  mixed  a|>  he  was  about  die  polidcal 

Christ  bei^  eiqioande^  and  social  climree  of  oar  nation. 

The  store  owner  said,  "Let’s  read 
what  Ood  haa  tt>  say  aboot  it”  The 
bat  a  unsaved  became  saved. 

In  the  schools,  CUldien’s  VO- 
F(v  every  {neacher  in  the  pu^  lages,  the  work  of  the  Converaioo 

Board,  and  throagh  the  mirnstry  of 
1,975  churches,  from  Biloxi  to 
Byhaha,  that’s  what  we  are  about 
John  Wesley  said,  "You  have 
nothing  to  do  bat  save  soals.” 

Oar  focus  must  be  on  the  desti¬ 
nation,  not  the  trmspoctadon.  it’s 
the  water,  not  the  container,  diat  is 
irnpoftant.  Ours  is  a  voice  in  the 
wuldeniess  {uodaiming  Christ  not 
the  beauty  of  the  wilderness.  In 
our  conveiuioo  meetirtgs,  associa- 
donal  idanning  sessions,  or  in  the 
local  church  bosiness  hoar,  let’s 
recall  what  we  are  about 


divine 

news  of  Christ  to  the  entire  world,  throng  ( 

Proclaiming  the  Word  is  the  unfeloed,  and  cqdained  in  the  pul- 
barmneter  of  the  church.  When  pit  and  the  marlM  place  will  aher 
prodamadon  has  been  strong,  the  the  trend,  ft  is  not  a  program  ' 
efaurcfa  fois  been  strong.  Person  who  makes  the  diffinence. 

Gaines  Dobbins  said  it  well: 

"Evangdism  according  to  Christ  is  we  need  a  hundred  lay  pereons 
not  an  extra,  an  elective,  or  an  prodaiming  the  Wmd  outside  the 
occasional  activity.  It  is  Christiani-  church.  Evangdism  is  not  to  be  a 
ty  at  work  producing  the  fruit  of  mere  task  to  be  done  nor  just  a 
discqdeship.  ft  is  not  fight^  ^)0-  department  in  an  organization,  but 
radk  battles  but  an  unceasing  war-  ramer  something  tint  is  h^jpoung 
fine.  Evangelism  is  never  defen-  all  the  time  wbra  the  church,  in 
sive;  it  has  but  one  strategy  —  feUowsfaq),  is  renewed  and  renew- 
oonqoest”  A  divine  strategy  is  laid  ing.  A  loving,  caring  fellowdiip 
iq>on  us  arKl  "woe  is  me”  if  I  do  will  do  more  to  disdple  people 
not  {uoclaim  the  Word.  than  all  oar  programs  a^  budgets. 

Christians  in  our  tuUioa  and  oar  We  must  be  ab^  dus  work  or  be 
state  are  seemingly  becoming  a  prepared  to  see  our  churches 
minority  group.  As  a  rule  Chru-  become  something  less  than  vkto- 
tums  are  ignm^  with  greater  ease  lious. 


The  COOPERATIVE  PROGRAM 
— Reaching  out  to  our  world  in  love 


Recoounciidatlou  of  Edocatioo  Coaamisaion  through  the  ConvcntioB  Board  to  the  Mhaiaalppi  Bapdat  Conventhm  relative  to  Clarke  CoOegc/hfiasiaa^rpi  Colege 

Prior  to  1980,  darke  College  was  e]q)eriencing  severe  financial  proUems  and  operating  at  a  deficit  In  1980,  Mississqipi  Baptists  voted  to  merge  College  into  Kfississm 

kge.  Mississ^i  College  was  to  be  the  surviving  coUeae  and  was  to  adminisier  Clarte  College  and  recdve  its  assets.  CUuIb  CoD^  conrinned  to  experience  consiatratiM 
operating  deficits  under  hfcsissippi  College’s  coitroL  From  time  to  time,  Mississippi  Baptists  teimbursed  Mississippi  CoO^  for  operatirre  deficits  rncutred  in  operating  fTad 
kge.  Qarke  College  was  threatoied  with  the  loss  of  accreditatioa.  Nfississmpi  Ccwge  worked  diligentiy  to  save  tre  acoemtation  of  Qjra  CoDege,  even  filirre  a  lawsuit  in  ] 


1.  Mississippi  Colkge  herein  returns  to  the  Mississippi  Btqjtist  Convention  Board  the  buildings  and  property  known  as  the  Qarke  CoDege  canqjus.  Deeds  wiD  be  executed  accordingly. 

2.  The  accumulated  tmreimbursed  operating  deficit  Qarke  Colkge  is,  according  to  KFMQ  Peat  Marwick,  approximaiely  $484,000.  Additionally,  Kfississippi  Odkge  has  had  cod 

-'* — i - -•  — * - - - with  its  efforts  to  maintain  Qarke  Cdkge  as  a  viabk  institution  not  reflected  in  the - — - - - — 

and  the  Education  Commission  is  willing  to  propose  to  the  Budget  Committee  of  the 


skleraUe  administiative  and  oilier  costs  associated  with  its  efforts  to  maiotain  Qaike  Colege  as  a  viable  institutioD  not  reflected  in  the  operating  deficit  and  not  letmbais^  After  isgo- 
tiations,  Missiasinpi  Colkge  is  wilhM  to  accqit  and  the  Education  Commission  is  willing  to  propose  to  the  Budget  Committee  of  the  hmssinqipi  Baptist  Convention  dut  die  Conv^ 
tion  reimburse  Nfississippi  College  $242,000  as  die  Convention’s  minimal  share  of  this  operatmg  deficit  This  noay  be  done  over  a  period  of  several  years. 

3.  Mississqipi  CoUere,  as  the  successor  to  Qarke  CoDege,  hcdds  kgal  tide  to  aU  endowmetu  funds  of  Qarke  CoDege  subject  to  the  expressed  intent  of  the  donoo  for  such  endowment 
funds.  Being  mindful  of  the  Baptist  polity  of  maintaining  separateness  but  cooperation  between  various  Baptist  bodies  and  understuiding  trustees  are  ultimatdy  reqionsiUe,  and  yet 
responding  to  Mississippi  Colkge’s  requ^  for  instruction  and  direction,  it  is  reqiectfaUy  recommended  that  Missistippi  CoDege  will  receive  all  of  the  proceeds  from  the  Q***  OA- 
kge  endowment  for  the  next  six  (6)  yern  to  ofbet  die  briance  of  the  Qarke  Colkge  operwng  defidt  hfississippd  Colkge  wfll  continoe  to  be  the  legal  owner  of  the  ClMke  endowmeitt. 
However,  after  six  ^  yem  it  is  respectfully  requested  diat  the  trustees  consider  manng  all  proceeds  from  the  endowment  (funds  heretofore  received  or  received  in  the  fiitare) 
with  the  other  two  Chrutian  cdkges  of  Mireissqiin  Baptists,  namely.  Blue  Mountain  C^ge  and  William  Carey  CoDege,  according  to  thdr  ratio  of  (fistribotion  of  undesignaied  fimriK 
in  the  Mississqipi  Mission  to  the  extent  that  das  can  be  done  consistent  with  die  wishes  of  the  donon  to  the  Qarke  Qdkge  endowmert. 

4.  Mississippi  Cdkge  further  accepts  responsibility  for  any  expenses  m  record  keqang  that  wiD  he^)  Qarke  alumni  as  an  identifiaUe  gioiq>  and  the  records  will  be  kept  safe  and  availaUe. 

5.  Further,  it  is  understood  that  any  proceeds  from  the  further  use  of  the  Qarke  campus  will  be  equally  divided  among  existing  kfississippi  Bqitist  ccdkges  throagh  the  capital  aDoca- 
tion  budget  hem. 

6.  Mississippi  CoUese  has  pledged  to  preserve  the  strong  heritage  and  unique  contribotion  to  the  Kingdom  of  God  that  Qarke  CoDege  has  made  throu^  its  conunitmeih  to  missioiK 
and  ministry  as  mwa  as  possiUe  through  any  and  aU  means. 

Board  is  reroectfully  requested  to  appoint  a  qiedal  conunittee  to  reconunend  the  future  use  of  the  buildings  and  real 
scommended  that  wntten  proposals  oe  made  to  this  special  committee.  Such  uses  considered  should  not  be  inconsis- 
Ippi  Baptist  Conventioa 

8.  After  the  inmkmentation  of  the  recommendations  contained  heieiii,  Mississippi  Cdkge  shaU  have  no  additional  or  further  oMisation  to  Mississropi  Bmtists  in  regard  to  the  opera¬ 
tion  of  Clarke  CoDege  and  NGssissippi  Baptists  shall  have  no  further  obhgation  or  responsibility  to  hfisrissipin  CoDege  relating  to  Imsissippi  Qdkge^  operation  of  Quke  Colkge. 

9.  A  final  audit  of  Clarke  CoDege  wiU  be  permanently  on  file  in  the  records  of  both  Mississippi  Colkge  and  the  Mississqipi  Baptist  Convemioo  Board. 

10.  We  express  our  deepest  respect  and  our  highest  regards  for  the  contribution  made  CJZ.  Holland,  W.E.  Green,  Lowery  Compere,  Lewis  Nobles,  the  odier  mesidents,  w«ff,  frKxifty, 
and  students  of  Qarke  CoDege  for  the  immeasoraUe  contribution  made  to  Mississqim  Bq)^  life  and  the  Kingdom  of  Godaroond  the  world  tfaroajh  OvHtv  Cemge. 

(To  be  signed  by  the  chairman,  Mississippi  Gdkge  trustees;  chairman.  Education  Commission;  preskfentTCIarke  Afarmni  Association;  cfaaitman^Execative  Committee;  and  the  presi¬ 
dent,  Mississippi  Baptist  Convention  Board.) 


7.  The  Executive  Committee  of  the 
property  previously  occiqned  as  the 
tent  wim  or  hinder  the  missions,  go 


Tl>T?$^it^ir<K<ri 

VOLUME  116  (iSSN-0006-6778)  NUMBER  38 

PubHshed  weekly  except  weeks  ot  July  4  and  Christmas  by  the 
Baptist  ConventkMi,  515  MissiseippI  Street.  Jackaon,  MS 
a^OlTSubsoription  $7.36  a  year  payable  In  advance.  Second  daaa 
poataga  paid  at  Jackson,  MIsatsaIppi.  The  Boptlat  Record  is  a 
member  of  Southam  Baptist  Praas  Association. 


Asaodata  Editor . 

. William  H.  Parldna  Jr. 

AdvartMflQ/News  writer . 

. Taraaa  Dickens 

Editorial  Ataodatn . 

. Florenca  Larrimore 

Circulation  Manager . 

. nanaa  WaNay 

Bookkaapar . 7. . 

. . Batty  Anna  BaMay 

Proofraader/Secratary .., . 

Ectitor  Emeritus . 

Baptist  Rscord  Advisory  CommiUsa:  Deborah  Brum,  CorlMh:  Susan 
KkMon,  Walnut  Qrova:  Randy  Turner,  Laurel,  vioa-chairman;  Tommy 
Tutor,  Clafksdala.  chaimian;  ax-ofllcio,  Tsrsaa  Oidcana.  ascrotary,  Jack 
son. 

Poslwaalar.  Sand  ohangaa  o«  adebeoa  to  The  BAmST  RECORD, 
P.O.  Box  830,  Joohsen,  M  3a208. 

The  EiMor,  Bapttsl  Record 
P.  O.  Boa  830,  JaMcaon,  MS  30306 
<001)0004000 


Sairttat  l^rnrh 


JOURNAL  OF  THE  MISSISSIPPI  BAPTIST  CONVENTION 


StUn 


Clarke,  MC  addressed  in 
Educ.  Commission  action 


!  GoOefe  wt  bang  leioned 
MiMiwimi  BaptiM  Conmi- 
o«d.nib^io  appfoval  of 
■date  meeting  fw.  9. 


The  bmldingi  and  ptoneity  of 
riMto  College  -  "  ~  - 

loibe  “ 
tioo  BoiKl, 
the  bomd  i 

Missisnppi  Odlege  trustees. 
opwating  (jatee  Colw  in  Neur- 
ioo  sinoe  a  merger  in  1^,  dosed 
the  janior  college  das  qnng  dtiog 
deficit  financing.  enroU- 

BKoi,  nl  loss  of  acoedtetioo. 

Adocameni.oiidiningtfaepaitic- 
ntes  of  the  lelBni.  was  proposed  Iqr 
the  Mississippi  Bapcte  Education 
romnuMinn  me  aignatnics  of 
Hany  Vkh^,  Missmipa  Con^ 
tnMiee  chairman;  Ron  Kirkland, 
«««  Pnn— iririnn 
and  Glenn  Shows,  Clarke  ahmini 
presktaa.  (The  document  is  rquo- 
duoed  in  its  entiKty  on  ^age  2.) 

At  a  called  mee&ig  of  the 
MBCB  Bsecotive  Commwee.  the 


ByTlmNkMM 


document  was  ap|»Dved  by  that 
group  with  only  two  minor 
dian^:  adding  the  name  of  the 
aoditii^  company,  and  changing 
dm  assignment  oi  the  mdal  com- 
mteee  to  "recommeixr  talha  than 
“determine’*  future  use  of  the 
Qaike  moperty.  MC  retains  the 
ownersnm  of  the  name  “Clarke 
C(dlege,’^said  Harr^  Victery  to 
the  Esec^ve  Cornmniee. 

Calling  events  idated  to  Clarke 
“an  agoruzmg  aqterieaoe 
for  MiatisBipp  Baitists  for  many, 
many  years,^  Vickery  ix>aed  tint 
MC  President  Lewis  Nobles 
“poured  his  heart  out  to  try  to 
the  mme  and  ina^iity  (rf 
Cfaake  CoO^  as  it  was  iitended.” 

The  doenment  retnrm  all  teal 
estate  and  buildings  ■  the  Newton 
campus  to  the  comrention  board 
asking  the  Bxecutiue  Committee  to 


Billy  Graham’s  Oct.  Moscow 
crusade  gleans  thousands 


MOSCOW,  OcL  26  —  Evange¬ 
list  Billy  Graham  eimrienced  a 
“Miracle  in  Moscow**  as  he  con¬ 
ducted  an  historic  crusade  which 
ended  yesterday  in  Moscow’s 
huge  indoor  Otympic  Statfium  dur¬ 
ing  bis  two-wete  visit  to  the  Russ¬ 
ian  capita. 

Crowds  averaging  ova  45,000 
packed  iito  the  staefiom,  breaking 
the  pieviooa  attendance  record  of 
38,000  for  the  1988  Goodwill 
Games.  Thousands  more  were 
locked  out  of  each  meeting 

At  the  final  meeting  on  Sunday, 
according  to  stadium  officials, 
50,000  peo^  jauuned  the  stadi- 
■n,  standing  shoukfer  to  shoulder 
*aroiHid  the  arena  floa  and  then  up 
the  aisles  to  the  ceding  The  polioe 
estimated  an  additional  20,000 
were  unable  to  gain  admittance 
and  watched  on  a  large  screen  out¬ 
side,  making  this  the  largest  crowd 
to  himr  the  gospel  at  one  time  in 
the  fbnna  Sovtet  Union. 

An  average  of  over  14,000  — 
more  than  one-quarter  of  the  andi- 
ences  —  responded  to  Graham’s 


invitation  to  make  a  commitment 
to  Chriat,  confirming  an  observa¬ 
tion  of  one  Moscow  academic  who 
said,  “People  are  tired  of  history 
and  want  to  personally  esperienoe 
the  piesence  of  God  in  their  hves.” 

On  ttieir  first  mgfat,  42,000  peo¬ 
ple  crowded  the  stachum,  quOing 
down  from  the  seats  and  standing 
reverently  in  a  large  semi-circle 
formed  by  Russian  members  of  die 
Moscow  Salvation  Army.  Graham 
preached  on  the  topic,  “Why?” 
which  had  been  the  theme  of  a 
huge  advertising  campaign  in  the 
Russian  oqj^. 

On  one  night,  a  large  contingent 
of  Russian  military,  including 
Army,  Navy,  and  Air  Force  — 
attended  the  meeting  wearing  their 
onifonns  and  many  le^nded  to 
Graham’s  invitation.  The  former 
Red  Army  Chenr —  now  tiie  Russ¬ 
ian  Army  Choir  —  accompanied 
by  their  band,  sang  a  selection  of 
religious  songs,  l^y  iiKlnded  a 
memorable  English  rendition  of 
“The  Battle  of  the  Repub- 
lic”  with  its  stirring  affirmation 


that  “Ifis  truth  goes  mardung  on.” 

At  tile  final  crusade  meeting, 
Joni  Eareckson-Tada,  a  quadri- 
Neipc  who  was  ippointed  tot  he 
National  Council  on  Disability, 
Oso  qxtke  from  the  Oatform.  Ste 
thanked  VOZROmDENIYE 
(Renewal)  ’92  for  making  the 
gospel  available  to  all  people 
including  those  persons  witii  dis¬ 
abilities. 

When  Graham  gave  the  invita¬ 
tion  for  people  to  make  a  commit- 
meiu  to  Chnst,  an  average  of  ova 
27%  of  the  densely-packed  crowd 
made  their  way  to  the  front  of  the 
rtiatform.  Unlike  most  Billy  Gra- 
tuun  crusades,  no  music  was  used 
■  the  time  of  the  invitatioa  Still, 
the  evangelist  had  to  appeal  to  the 
inquirers  surging  fowatd  to  walk 
and  not  run.  The  only  sound  was 
the  muffled  beat  of  thousands  of 
feet  making  their  way  to  the  front 
At  each  service,  Graham  later 
noted  he  made  a  special  effort  to 
point  out  that  it  was  hard  to  be  a 
Christiao  and  it  was  not  a  dedsion 
to  be  made  hgbtly. 


Cooperative  Program  begins  year  with  increase 


NASHVILLE  (BP)  —  Southern 
Baptist  Convention  Cooperative 
Program  receipts  for  the  first 
month  of  the  new  fiscal  year  were 
0  1.28%  ova  the  previous  yea’s 
mit  month,  according  to  Morris  R 
Chapman,  president  and  chief 
executive  ofxioa  of  the  SBC  Exec¬ 
utive  Committee. 


Octoba  1992  receqits,  the  first 
month  of  the  1992-93  fiscal  yea, 
were  $10,830,045  compared  to 
Octoba  1991  of  $10,693,592,  or  a 
1.28%  increase,  according  to 
Chapman. 

However,  the  monthly  basic 
operating  budget  requirement  for 
the  moom  is  $11,6^366,  leavkig 


the  October  CP  gifts  about  7.9% 
below  budget  The  1992-93  Coop¬ 
erative  Program  AUocation  Budget 
is  $140,200595. 

Desigiuted  gifts  for  the  first 
month  were  up  a  whopping 
41.9^  ova  last  yea.  $2,10(),758 
for  October  1992  compaed  to 
$1,479520  for  Octoba  im. 


BSSB  retirement  “window” 
chosen  by  159  employees 


urr 


nme  a  ^wdal  committee  to  deter¬ 
mine  future  use  of  the  property. 
Tint  could  be  sale  a  rental  of  the 


document  divkks  an  opera- 
ing  debt  of  $484,000  between  MC 
and  the  MBCB,  witii  tin  MC  po¬ 
tion  coming  from  proceeds  of 
Clarke  endowment  rands  for  tte 
next  six  vears.  The  document  rec¬ 
ommends  that  at  that  time  the 
endowment,  which  is  about 
$778,000,  be  divided  among  the 
three  bfississm  Baptist  colleges: 
MC,  William  C^y  College,  and 
Blue  Mountain  College.  Also 
divided  among  the  three  schools 
would  be  any  proceeds  from  future 
use  (tf  the  property.  All  of  tins  is  te 
be  done  conantent  with  tin  wisites 
of  endowment  donors.  MC  also 
accepts  recod  keemng  reqioosi- 
bihtia  conoenang  Oante. 


NASHVILLE  (BP)  —  More  timi 
83%  of  the  191  Bqitist  Sunday 
School  Board  employea  ehgiblie 
for  a  apedal  vetirnttary  retirement 
window  have  elected  to  take  the 
enhanced  early  retirement  proviaion 
approved  by  the  institotion’s 
trustea  in  Auguat 

A  total  (tf  159  elected  to  retire 
between  Sept  1  and  Nov.  1.  The 
one-tirae  provision,  part  of  a 
restructuring  fa  the  101-yea-old 
church  programs  and  pubbeations 
agency,  was  offered  during  the 
summer  to  persons  with  a  mini- 
mum  age  (rf  52  and  whom  age  and 
tenure  totaled  ■  least  77. 

In  addition  to  the  retiremea  of 
eight  employea  from  middle-  and 
uppa-level  marugemern  positioos 
aonounoed  in  June,  six  department 
directois  are  retiring.  They  are  bto 
Caldwell,  Sunday  School  youth- 


adult  dqNUtment;  Muriel  Black- 
well,  Simday  School  oeschool- 
cfaildten’s  departnent;  Tom  n**, 
Bibles  Old  books;  Ray  Conna, 
church  recreation;  Joe  Derurey, 
video/andiovisoals;  and  Jerry  Ross, 
art 

Retirea  among  Baptist  Book 
Store  managers  mdude  two  s^ion- 
al  managers,  Robert  Mendenhall, 
southeastem  region,  and  A1  Crvar- 
fotd,  cetoaVeampus  region. 

Five  store  managm  in  the  63- 
store  chain  will  retire.  They  ate 
Ken  Brannon  of  Greensboro,  N.C.; 
Charies  CTark  of  Nashville; 
Chaiia  McGlocklin  of  Jackson, 
bfias.;  Loren  Miller  of  Knoxville, 
TeoTL;  Jeanette  Scott  of  Wake  Fa- 
est  N.C;  and  Fnui  Webb  of  Cba- 
loite,  N.C  (See  related  stay,  page 
A) _ 

wrtes  for  BSSB. 


Couple  with  state  ties  will 
serve  with  CSI  in  East  Asia 


RICHMOND,  Va.  —  Mr.  and 
Kfrs.  Patrick  A  Brunson  have  been 
named  represenutiva  of  Coopoa- 
tive  Services  International,  a 
Southern  Baptist  aid  oganizatiotL 

The  Brunsons  will  Uve  in  East 
Asia,  where  they  will  use  their 
dolls  in  development  of  CSI-rda- 
ed  projects  in  developing  nations 
of  East  Asia.  He  attended  New 
Orieans  .Seminary.  They  are  mem¬ 
bers  of  Lake  Forest  Church  in 
New  Orleans. 

Born  a  Elgin  Air  Force  Base, 
Fla.,  Brunson  is  the  son  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Preston  Brunson  of  Samson, 
Ala.  He  considers  Samson  his 
bometowiL 

He  received  a  degree  from 
Auburn  (Ala.)  University. 

He  has  been  directa  of  pharma- 
^  a  Bi^st  Medical  Center  in 
(jerttre,  ^a.,  and  a  pharmacist  a 
Homa  D.  CObb  Memorial  Hospi¬ 
tal  in  Fherux  Chy,  Alru 

Bom  in  Wichita  Falls,  Texas, 
bfrs.  Brunson  is  the  forma  Cyn¬ 
thia  Zgarba,  daughta  of  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Jerry  Zgarba  of 
Brooksvile,  Miss.  While  growing 
up  she  also  lived  in  Meridian, 
N^.  The  Brunsons  consida  EOc- 
mont  (Ala.)  Church  their  home 
church. 

She  received  degrees  from 


Meridian  Junior  College,  Liv¬ 
ingston  (Ala.)  University,  and 
N^  Orleois  Seminary. 

The  Brunsons  have  four  chil¬ 
dren:  Joel  Scotty,  bom  in  1981; 
Amanda  Elizabeth,  1984;  Andrew 
Isaac,  1989;  and  Thomas  Pattick, 
1992.  The  family  will  go  to 
Rockville,  Va.,  in  January  fa  a 
seven- week  orientation  before 
leaving  for  tile  field. 


Patrick  and  Cynthia  Brunson 


Brotherhood  announces  ’93 
World  Changers  work  dates 


MEMPHIS,  Term.  (BP)  —  The 
Southern  Baptist  Brotherhood 
Commission  has  announced  11 
World  Changers  national  work 
projea  dates  for  1993. 

A  project  in  Puerto  Rico  and  a 
junia  high  project  also  are  sched¬ 
uled. 

World  Qumgers  is  a  week-long 
missions  project  fa  Southern  Bap¬ 
tist  youths  roonsored  by  the  Bro& 
erhood  CTommission.  World 
Changers  wok  projects  indude  a 
missions  education  compenent 
before  the  youtiis  go  to  thm  pro¬ 


ject  locations.  Once  on  site,  they 
are  involved  in  activities  allowing 
them  to  experience  missions,  first¬ 
hand. 

Project  dates  and  locations  fa 
1993  are:  Houston,  Kansas  Chy, 
Mo.,  and  Millington,  Term.,  June 
12-19;  Briceville,  Tenn.,  and 
Brockton,  Mom.,  June  26-Jnly3; 
Savannah,  Ga.,  a^  Caaon,  N.C, 
July  10-17;  Campbell  County, 
Term.,  July  17-24;  Tuscaloosa, 
Ala.,  July  24-31;  and  Eastern 
Shore,  Va.,  and  Clarksdalc» 
Mias.,  July  31-Aiig.  7. 


Parks  tells  missionaries  why 
he’s  retiring:  FMB  has  changed 


RICHMOND,  Va.  (BP)  —  R.  experienoe  to  make  administiattve  to  help  Soothem  Bwtists  reach 
Keith  Fades  wrote  Sot^iem  Bqv  decisions”  on  foreign  missions  their  Bold  Mission  Inrust  goals, 
tists’  3,900  foreign  missionaries  "increasingly  doing  staff  work  He  offered  his  personal  commit- 
Oct  23  that  his  dedsioo  to  retire  instead  of  BilfiUing  the  role  of  ment  to  lead  preparatioos  to  a 
now  "is  the  Lord’s  will  under  trustees.”  1995  launch  dke  for  his  "Miraons 

unfortunate  circumstances,”  7)  Mote  pressure  on  the  board’s  21”  vision,  which  wopld  extend 

But  the  Foreign  Kfission  Board  news  office,  whidi  serves  as  the  into  the  21st  century, 

president  added;  "I  feel  we  are  Richmond  (foreign)  bureau  of  Against  the  background  of 

missing  the  best  that  God  had  for  Baptist  Press,  repmt  only  ‘po^  "iiaai^bte  qjportunity  in  Eastern 
os.  Soothem  Baptists  should  be  itive’  news,”  which  Parlu  said  Europe  and  the  former  Soviet 
marching  through  God’s  open  dueatens  to  "destroy  the  credil^-  states,  I  felt  compelled  to  share 
door  of  opportunity  as  a  united,  ty  of  the  press.”  with  the  trastees  some  concepts 

loving,  obedient  people  of  God.  8)  A  new  develc^mieia  of  asking  duo  I  believed  the  Lord  had  given 
May  God  forgive  os  and  have  prospective  staff  members  "for  me,”  Parks  wrote.  "In  keeping 
mercy  on  us!”  expressions  of  loyalty  toward  with  my  style  of  leaderriup  I  asked 

Piiiks  told  missionaries  he  was  trustees  and/or  the  ‘conservative  the  staff  and  trastees  to  study, 
writing  them  to  darily  why  he  felt  resurgence.’”  change,  expand  or  modify  these 

led  to  retire  at  65,  rat^  than  serve  9)  Increasing  emphasis  fOT  mis-  ideas.” 

until  1995  as  he  proposed  in  sionary  appointment  on  the  four  But  "the  trustee  suberunmittee 

August  1991.  ~  -  backgroimd  statements  in  the  1987  r^rpointed  to  work  with  staff  never 

“Many  of  you  have  indicated  that  Southern  Baptist  Convention  consulted  me  nor  sought  staff 
our  reason  for  retiring  earher.than  Peace  Committee  repmt,  instead  of  input,”  he  said.  "Their  report 
planned  is  still  not  clear,”  he  said.  just  die  Baptist  Faith  and  Message  seemed  designed  to  discredit  die 
Parks  also  said  he  is  sdll  receiv-  statemeru  (Southern  Bqitists’  tra-  concepts,  encourage  my  retireinent 
ing  similro'  questions  from  South-  didonal  statement  of  fai^  adopted  and  focus  on  other  trustee  con- 
era  Baptists  in  general  and  from  in  1963).  cerns.” 

some  of  the  boaM’s  own  trustees  10)  The  convention  controversy  However,  Parks  said,  his  tenure 
who  say  they  encouraged  him  to  atmosphere  causing  “many  fine  rather  than  his  vision  became  the 
coiuirue  serving.  He  sent  copies  oi  (missionary)  candidates  eidier  to  issue  in  committee  discussions.  "It 
his  letter  Oct  26  to  FMB  trustees  believe  they  cannot  be  qipoirtted  became  eviderU  that  I  would  not  be 
and  staff  and  state  Biqitist  execu-  or  to  decline  apprnntroent  because  allowed  to  fulfill  my  role  as  prra- 
dve  directors  and  editcHS.  they  are  not  comfortaUe  with  the  dent  without  restrictions  ana  hin- 

He  also  sent  a  separate  letter  to  present  Foreign  Mission  Board  dranoes,”  he  wrote. 

FMB  trustees  elaborating  on  his  diiection.”  “It  was  staled  that  *60%  of  the 

reasons  for  retiring  OcL  31,  1992,  Jackson  said  "trustees  have  the  board  members’  would  vote  for 
three  years  earlier  than  he  (xiginal-  highest  admiration  for  Dr.  Parks  me  to  stay,”  he  continued.  "But  in 
ly  planned.  .  and  his  ministry  to  Southern  Bap-  board  meetings  in  August,  Octo- 

A  number  of  trustees,  staff  and  tists  and  ihe  worid.  He  has  a  heart  ber,  December,  and  Aj^,  as  w(^ 
others  “have  insisted  ‘nothing  has  fm  missions  and  desires  to  see  the  as  the  Retreat  in  March  (with 
dianged’  (at  the  Fmeign  Mission  world  evangelized.  However,  I  trustees  in  the  Dallas  area),  every 
Board)  and  have  objected  to  my  strongly  disagree  with  the  conchi-  effort  to  vote  on  affirming  my 
saying  there  were  ‘philostmhicid  sions  regarding  phdosophical  dif-  leadership  mail  1995  was  ddayed 
differences’  with  tMm,”  Parks’  fietenoes  found  in  Us  letOerT'  or  ruled  out  of  order.” 
letter  to  missionaries  said.  Jackson  said  he  has  "no  desire  to  Parks  said  many  fieh  tUs  was  an 

Parks  disagreed  with  that  opin-  attack  Dr.  Parks,  but  I  do  know  the  intentional  maneuver  by  several 
ion,  listing  10  areas  in  wUch  be  heart  of  trustees  and  feel  com-  trastees  on  the  board.  Other 
believes  the  Foreign  Mission  pdled  to  defend  them.  There  are  trustees  vibo  favored  li^  continued 
Board  has  changed  since  the  "con-  always  two  sides  to  every  state-  service  "never  forced  the  issue,” 
servative  resurgence.”  But  trusiee  menL  Each  rd  us  tends  to  >^w  our  he  said. 

charnrum  John  Jackson  of  Califor-  positioa  as  correct.  I  am  certain  At  the  March  19-20  spiritual 
nia,  responding  to  Parks’  letter.  Dr.  Parks  believes  Us  views  are  emphasis  retreat,  a  joiia  statement 
expressed  strong  disagreement  accurale.  However,  trustees  would  the  trustees  and  Parks  rHeased 
wim  its  Ciondusioos.  disagree  on  most  of  his  allega-  at  a  concluding  press  conference 

Ihe  letter  from  Parks  died:  tions.”  said  Parks  alone  made  the  decision 

1)  Lack  of  appropriate  rquesen-  As  an  example,  Jackson  dted  to  retire  at  the  end  of  (X:tober.  The 
ration  o{  "a  yery  large  percentage  one  statement  Parks  made  in  Us  statement  said  trastees  affirmed 
of  Bible-believing,  theologically  letter  to  missionaries:  "When  Ihuks  and  rroeamdly  requested  he 
conservative  Southern  Bqitists”  on  issues  or  problems  cannot  be  dis-  corUnne  Us  leadenUp. 

boards  of  trustees.  "Their  money  is  cussed  honestly,  they  carmot  be  But  in  Us  leOer  to  tw  missionar- 
still  solicited  but  not  their  repre-  dealt  witii  produotively  or  sdved.”  ies.  Parks  exjdained  he  Uid  reason 
seiuatives  nor  aify  contribation  of  Jackson  said  most  of  the  state-  to  question  whedier  trustee  suppmt 
convictions  or  viewpoints,”  Parks  meius  in  Parks’  letter  were  never  for  Um  would  last.  During  the 
wrote.  discussed  with  trustees.  retreat.  Parks  said,  he  "leoei^  a 

2)  Decisions  being  "increasingly  "In  addition,  when  discussion  fax  reporting  that  a  prominent 

sha^  ^  uhra-cortiervative  th^  did  take  pUoe,  any  negative  view  trustee  had  stated  at  a  puUic  meet- 
logical  interpretations  rather  than  was  exploited  or  labded  as  the  iim”  before  ttie  retreat  "I  would  be 
temed  and  adopted  missioo  prind-  controven^  weaving  its  way  into  affirmed  during  the  meeting,  but 
pies.”  board  affa^”  Jack^  said.  "Kfis-  would  be  ‘on  my  way  out’  by 

3)  "An  atmoniheie  of  trust  and  sionaries  and  Southern  Baptists  are  summer.  TUs  and  other  develop- 
respect  for  differences  of  view-  not  told  of  individual  disagreement  ments  confirmed  my  impression 
poims  has  been  iqdaoed  by  si^-  witUn  the  Global  Strategy  Group  that  my  leadetshq)  would  remain 
cion,  distrust,  criticism  and  iruimi-  (the  FMB’s  top  executive  council^  an  issue  continually.” 

datioiL”  But  if  one  trustee  voices  a  ne^ve  At  the  retreat  itadf,  he  said,  "the 

4)  Freedom  to  disagree  being  opinion,  it  is  trumpeted  as  if  all  Lord  impressed  me  that  if  I  was 

“replaced  by  expectation  of  con-  trustees  have  voied.^  not  going  to  te  affirmed  to  lead, 

formity.”  Parks  added:  "When  Parks,  in  the  letter  to  missionar-  then  my  sttying  would  be  a  Un- 
issues  or  problems  cannot  be  dis-  ies,  said  the  confusion  over  Us  drance  to  missions  and  just  a 
cussed  honestly,  they  cannot  be  retirement  is  summed  up  in  one  marking-of-time.”  He  said  he 
dealt  with  pro<te;trvely.  or  solved.”  craestion:  "Why  did  you  stw  it  was  remained  open  to  see  how  the 

5)  A  decline  in  career  missionary  dod’s  will  to  lead  until  1995  and  trustees  would  interact,  but 
appointments  and  increased  then  a  few  months  later  say  it  was  claimed  that  in  subsequent  set- 
emphasis  on  volunteers  that  is  God’s  will  to  retire  in  19927”  sions  at  the  retreat  tU  trustees’ 
"bringing  an  imbalance  overseas.”  In  August  1991  Parks  revealed  a  questions  were  "inquiaitoriaL” 

6)  Soi^  trustees  "without  die  vision  he  said  God  had  given  Um  Stanley  is  dkector  of  News  and 
time,  expertise,  knowledge  or  for  new  foreign  missioa  initiatives  Informatioa  Office,  FMB. 


Distinguished  faculty  lecturer 

Sam  Gore,  Clinton,  left,  professor  and  head  of  the  Department  of  Art  at 
Mississippi  College,  has  been  selected  as  the  Arts  ana  Sciences  Distin¬ 
guished  Facuify  Lecturer  for  1992.  Glen  Eaves,  Clinton,  dean  of  the  CoHege 
of  Arts  and  Sciences,is  pictured  presenting  Gore  with  a  plaque.  Gore's  lec¬ 
ture,  entitled  ‘Reflections  on  Art  and  Values,”  will  be  presented  on  Nov  9 
at  2:30  p.m.  in  the  Hall  of  Fame  Room  of  the  B.C.  Rogers  Student  Center 
on  campus. 

McGlockin  takes  early 
retirement  with  BSSB 


Churches  adopt  Expanded  Annuity  Plan 


The  foUowing  churches  have  adopted  the  Eimanded  Aonuity  Plan 
smee  those  reported  in  the  Sept  3  issue  of  the  BaptM  Record:  Gulf 
Coast:  Sharon;  Lafayette:  Umoo  West;  Lamar:  Coaltown;  Marion: 
Emmanuel;  MissisBp(n:  Calvaiy,  Smithdale;  Pontotoc:  Troy,  Rankin: 
Meadow  Grove:  Simpson:  Siloam;  Sunflower.  Linn;  and  Walthall; 
Knoxo. 


Other  state  conventions 


Dobson  targets  Madonna  book, 
urges  boycott  of  Time,  printer 


By  Art  Toalston 

NASHVILLE  (BP)  —  Incensed  numerous  other  national  publish- 
over  Madonna’s  controversial  ers  of  religious  materials. 

$49.95  Sex  coffee-table  book,  Dobson  said  the  Madonna  boot 
Morality  in  Media  and  author-  “is,  without  question,  the  mosi 
broadcaster  James  Dobson  have  outrageous  single  event  that  ha: 
called  for  a  boycott  of  Time  Warn-  occur^  in  my  lifetime  with  refer¬ 
ee  loc.  ence  to  teen-agers  eq>ecially.” 

Warner  Books,  a  subsidiary  of  “This  is  not  just  some  pome 
New  York  City-based  Time  Warn-  queen,”  Dobson  said,  noting  mil- 
er,  is  the  book’s  publisher.  More  lions  of  youth  “imitate  Madonm 
than  800,000  copies  of  the  book  —  she  has  such  influence  witl 
—  in  six  languages —  were  placed  them.” 
on  foe  market  21. 

Dobson  also  called  for  a  boycott 


lication  of  foe  pornographic  book. 
Sex,  by  Madonna. 

“We  have  been  in  contact  with 
rqnesentatives  from  both  of  these 
companies  concerning  this  matter. 
Rand  McNally  sent  us  a  letter  stat¬ 
ing  that  they  regret  foeir  invt^ve- 
ment  with  t^  bo<^  and  would  not 
be  involved  in  sudi  projects  in  the 
future. 

“We  have  received  no  such  writ- 
ten  communication  from  R.R. 
Of  Donnelley,  foe  printer.  Dob-  Donnelley, 
son  said,  “We’re  not  going  to  do  The  Madonna  book  is  part  of  “a 
business  with  them  any  more.”  dvil  war  of  values,”  Dobstm  said. 

~  ’  It’s  “a  tidal  wave  of  evil  —  that’s 

what  we’re  faced  with.” 

“Madonna  is  not  the  enemy,” 
when  the  present  agreements  are  Dobson  said.  “Satan  is  the  enemy, 
over,  we’re  thOTgh.”  She  is  being  exploited  by  the 

enemy.  We  need  to  pray  for  her 
that  tte  truth  will  become  evident 
to  her.  I  don’t  hate  Madonna.  I 
don’t  hate  Time  Warner.  We  need 
ty  for  them,  but  we  also  need 
.  i  to  let  our  opinions  be  heard.” 
welfare  of  foe  American  pe^le.”  “The  $50  price  tag  on  this 
Nashville-based  SBC  Executive  James  T.  Drrq)er  Jr.,  president  of  obscenity  leads  one  to  conclude 
con-  Committee.  the  Sunday  Sdiotd  Board,  issued  a  that  Time  Warner  aiKl  Madoima 

In  addition,  Donnelley  does  statement,  noting:  “We  are  sur-  are  out  to  make  a  fast  buck.  The 
extensive  business  with  the  Biqx^  prised  and  outraged  that  two  of  txx^  costs  less  than  $g  per  copy  to 
Sunday  School  Board  in  our  siq)pliers,  R.R.  Donnelley  and  produce,”  Cooper  said. 

Nashville,  induding  Bible  printing  Rand  McNally  (which  owns  a  Toalston  writes  for  BP. 


the  century,  ^  X  2(X)0,”  was  the  focal  point  for  the  two-<toy  meeting.  _  _ _ _ 

reception  wu  given  to  WJ.  ’TJub”  and  Dorothy  Hughes  of  of  tlte'^’s'  printer7RrR7Do^ 

nelleyA  Sons  Company  of  Chica-  Focus  on  the  Family  has'relied  on 
been  comrmOT^by  foe  FfeUows^  to  go.  DonneUey,  the  world’s  largest  Donnelley  for  virtually  all  its 
the  histoty  of  the  development  of  Southern  Baptist  work  m  Mon-  printing  company,  has  printed  major  printmg  needs,  he  said.  “But 

numerous  books  for  Dobson’s 

^  Colorado S^g^cSo™*”^*^  Morris  H.  Ch^an,  president- 

\yEST  DES  MOINES,  lo^  (BP)  Iowa  B^rtists  have  elected  their  Donnelley  also  was  the  printer  treasurer  of  foe  SBC  Executive 
tot  layn^  ^sident  ^  mcr^  to  g^g  to  Southern  Baptists’  of  40,000-plus  copies  of  this  Committee,  told  Baptist  Press,  “I 
Cooper^ve  Program  by  1%.  More  than  90  messengers  representing  year’s  Southern  Baptist  Conven-  am  shocked  that  Donnelley  chose 

tion  Annual  and  12,000-plus  to  print  a  book  which  so  blatantly  to 
get  of  $L092,567,  up  $1 1,720  over  foe  budget  adopted  for  1992.  Chop-  copies  of  the  SBC  Book  of  disregards  the  moral  and  spiritual 
Mve  Pro^am  t^ipte  have  increased  significantly  this  year,”  O.  Wen-  Reports,  both  pubUshed  by  the  welfere  of  foe  American  people.” 

dell  JonM,  Iowa  Baptists  execotive-diiecter,  said  in  his  address.  “We  . .  . . 

are  within  reach  of  to  budget  again  if  every  (fourch  continues  to  ^ 
sistenL” 

Missourians  Decide  Race,  Try  to  Define  Family 

CAPE  GIRARDEAU,  Mo.  (BP)  —  Jackson  pastor  Rodney  Travis 
received  62%  of  to  votes  in  a  race  with  director  of  missions  Marvin 
Nobles  for  the  Missouri  Baptist  Convention’s  presidency  during  its 


dren’s  Village  to  publish  the 
Memorial  Giving  Roll  Fuither,  we 
are  all  aware  of  the  vast  (^q>Oftuni- 
ties  DOW  available  to  win  souls  in 
Eastern  Europe  and  central  and 
South  America. 

After  hearing  this,  it  is  prudent 
to  look  at  our  cnnent  bud^  pro¬ 
posals,  that  is  the  Baptist  Record 
going  from  $395,435  in  1991  to 
^99,261  in  1992,  and  a  proposed 
amount  for  1993  of  $340,320. 
Also,  I  have  noticed  that  we  have 
five  full-time  consultants  for  Sun¬ 
day  School,  five  for  Disci^esfaip 
Training,  and  five  for  the  WMU. 
Additionally,  we  give  back 
$125,000  to  the  associations. 

Hnally,  when  you  realize  that 
63%  of  all  cooperative  money 
given,  vrtiich  most  Bqjtists  e:q)ect 
to  go  to  missions,  never  leaves 
Jacuoa,  you  are  struck  by  the  fact 
that  our  church  govermnent  has 
grown  too  large.  I  firmly  believe 
that  all  who  read  the  Baptist 
Reco^  as  I  do,  will  gladly  pay 
for  this  service.  Also,  if  our  associ¬ 
ation  is  in  need  of  mote  money, 
we  win  raise  this  within  our  asso- 
ciation.  I  do  not  ask,  nor  do  I 
desire,  my  fieDow  Oirutian  givers 
to  subsidire  my  piq)er  m  associa¬ 
tion.  I  also  believe  that  a  candid 
look  at  our  church  government 
could  result  in  consolidarion  and 
savings,  to  aUow  that  money  to  go 
for  ttie  Great  CommissiofL 
Pan!  David  WaUey 
Ricfaton 


In  praise  of  Runnels 

Editw: 

On  Oct.  23,  1992,  God  called 
Vardaman  J.  Runnels,  89,  of 
Magee,  home.  When  his  pastor 
began  the  memorial  service  saying 
be  was  going  to  use  verses  about 
Enoch,  we  knew  the  text  was 
appropriate  because  Vardaman  did 
indeed  walk  with  God. 

Vardaman  is  survived  by  his 
wife  of  many  years,  Virgie  Run¬ 
nels;  four  daughters,  Katherine 
McCarley,  Virginia  Burchfield, 
Adva  Jean  Voile,  and  Mary  Jo 
Wedge  worth;  12  grandchildren; 
nine  great-grandcwdren;  and  a 
host  of  other  relatives. 

Vardaman  is  also  survived  by  a 
group  men  who  call  themself 
‘‘Vardaman’s  Boys,”  and  who 
served  as  honorary  pall  bearers. 
These  men  came  from  many  areas: 
Billy  Allen  and  Billy  Kennedy 
from  Jackson;  Otto  Walker  from 
Laplace,  La.;  Scott  Buffington 
from  Collins;  Mayo  Mangum  from 
Laurel;  and  from  Magee,  Joe 
McNair,  Pete  Russell,  and  Ray 
Roberts. 

Vardaman  was  the  Sunday 
School  teacher  for  this  group  of 
men  when  they  were  growing  iq> 
in  Magee  and  going  to  First 
Church.  The  class  bad  100%  atten¬ 
dance  for  52  weeks  because  Var¬ 
daman  made  sure  they  were  in 
Sunday  School.  The  class  sat 
together  in  church  on  the  same 
pew  vritfa  Vardaman. 

About  25  years  ago  the  class 
began  to  have  an  annual  reunion 
with  the  last  one  being  on  Var- 


daman’s  birthday  in  September,  a 
month  before  his  death.  Through 
the  years  Vardaman  taught  mai^ 
other  young  men  who  held  him  in 
high  esteem,  and  dne  of  the 
reunions  included  them,  their 
wives,  and  the  original  group. 
Without  a  doubt,  this  would  have 
been  among  the  biggest  Sunday 
School  class  reunions  ever  held. 

Vardaman  had  a  big  impact  on 
the  lives  of  these  men,  and  the 
sweet  spirit  Of  love  was  evideitt  at 
each  gathering. 

Mr.  Vardaman,  you  will  be 
missed  and  thou^  of  often. 
WandaMangum 
Laurel 


Spirit  of  Clarke 

Edilm: 

I  grew  up  near  Newton  in  the 
Mklv^  Chmch  conununity.  Rom 
the  time  I  was  6  until  age  15,  John 
F.  Carter  was  my  pastor.  During 
those  years  Cla^e  College  and 
Outer  were  almost  synonymous.  I 
learned  about  God  from  him  — 
and  about  love  and  frdth.  The  best 
way  to  describe  the  Clarke  campus 
at  the  time  I  enrolled  there  is  to 
say  that  the  qririt  of  God’s  love 
just  permeated  tfiat  campus.  And 
that  really  doesn’t  do  justice. 

The  faculty  gave  so  much  of 
themselves  to  dbe  students.  They 
gave  me  something  I  bad  never 
experienced  —  they  believed  in 
me,  in  my  ability  as  a  student  and 
my  worth  as  a  human  being.  They 
understood  the  importance  of 
encouragement,  of  high  eiqiecta- 
dons,  aixl  at  the  same  time  stressed 
discipline  and  academic  excel¬ 
lence. 

The  students  also  shared  that 
spirit  of  love  with  one  another. 
Friendsiiqis  were  formed  that  will 
last  a  Ufe&ne  —  and  beyond. 

Today,  Christmas  cannot  come 
without  the  Lottie  Moon  Christ¬ 
mas  Offering.  At  Qarke,  tihat  was 
snedal,  too.  The  image  of  Lowery 
Compere  lifting  that  final  bulb 
to  com{dete  the  ’’star”  is  indelibly 
burned  into  the  memory  of  hun¬ 
dreds  of  students.  Many  students 
took  odd  jobs  in  order  to  give. 
Some  gave  the  money  they  were 
saving  to  boy  gifts  —  and  over 
the  years,  not  a  few  felt  God’s 
call  to  “trust  Me,  try  Me.”  They 
gave  their  "going-bome-for 
Christmas”  money.  Not  knowing 
how  they  would  get  home,  they 
learned  the  joy  of  sacrificial  giv¬ 
ing,  the  peace  of  knowing  that 
God  would  provide,  and  then 
experieixnng  the  victory  when  he 
did 

Clarke  College  was  special.  She 
was  more  than  a  scfaocH.  She  was 
a  special  creation!  Hundreds  of 
former  students  feel  as  I  do. 
That’s  why  we  mourn.  That’s 
why  we  objected  to  the  merger 
and  then  to  the  closing.  We  real¬ 
ize  that  noth^  short  of  a  miracle 
can  restore  Clarke  College.  The 
Master  may  have  other  pUns,  we 
don’t  ktxm.  But  we  do  l^w  God 
stW  works  miracles. 

Joyce  Simmons  Johnson 

Newton 


son  recommended  me  to  become 
minister  of  evangelism  at  First 
Church,  Jackson.  Just  before  mov¬ 
ing  to  Jackson,  be  visited  our 
home  and  said  to  me  almost 
qiologeticatly,  ’T  hr^  I  will  not 
offend  yon,  but  I  have  bought  sev¬ 
eral  new  suits  for  myself  and 
would  like  to  give  you  some  of 
my  old  ones  if  you  would  like  to 
have  them.”  Wluu  he  juesented  to 
me  were  seven  of  tte  prettiest 
suits  yon  have  ever  seen.  Some¬ 
body  in  Jackson  once  said  that  I 
was  the  best-dressed  man  on  the 
staff. 

That’s  one  or  two  of  the  reasons 
why  I  have.been  indebted  to  this 
man  for  nei^  a  quarter  of  a  cen¬ 
tury.  Some  years  ago  when  I  nom- 
iiu^  him  to  be  president  of  the 
state  convention,  and  he  was 
elected  easily,  several  pastors  said 
to  me  later,  “Had  I  known  he 
would  have  accqiced  the  presiden¬ 
cy  of  the  conveiuion,  I  would  have 
nominated  him  for  it  years  ago!” 
That’s  a  glimpse  of  the  kind  of 


Book-Link  will  glean  direct  donations 
from  convention  goers  at  book  drop  points 


ByTirnNkhota 


More  on  Richardson 


Editor. 

Recently  the  Baptist  Record 
carried  a  brief  atmouncement  of 
the  retirement  of  James  Richard¬ 
son  from  Rrst  Church,  Madison, 
ate  11  years  there.  You  did  have 
die  basics  about  die  man  —  where 
he  has  pastmed  and  served  in  die 
denomination.  There  are,  however, 
a  handled  other  things  that  need  to 
be  said  about  this  man. 

Your  article  mentioned  that  he 
and  Qssa  have  four  duldien.  Let’s 
point  out  that  in  addition  to  their 
daughter,  Vivian,  who  lives  in 
Louisiana,  they  have  three  sons,  all 
of  whom  are  in  the  ministry.  Jay 
Richardson  pastors  Di^  Church. 
Gary  Richardson  pastors  Edgewa- 
ter  Church  in  New  Orieans.  Ian 
Ridmdson  is  minisier  of  music  at 
Mt.  Pleasant  Church,  Bogalusa, 
La. 

Twenty-two  years  ago,  when  I 
was  a  straggly  young  psstor  in 
Greenville,  Miss.,  James  Ricfaard- 


esteem  this  man  is  held  in  by  his 
colleagues. 

I,  for  one,  owe  him  more  than 
I’ll  ever  be  rj>le  to  say.  My  bunch 
is  there  are  plenty  of  others  out 
there  in  the  same  boat 
JoeMcKeever 
Kenner,  La. 


Brown-Davis  Award  winners  honored  in  Tupelo 


Proposes  changes 


Editor 

Last  night,  Oct  19,  Perry  Asso¬ 
ciation  was  addressed  by  Jeff 
Rimes,  a  former  US-2  home  mis- 
sionaiy.  He  told  os  (rf  Indiana  pas¬ 
tes  getting  paid  less  than  $500  per 
mondi,  and  cities  with  over  20,000 
peofde  havirm  one  Southern  Bap¬ 
tist  church  the  size  of  a  two-car 
garage.  Next,  we  were  advised  of 
the  current  financial  condition  of 
the  Bqitist  Children’s  Village, 
wfaicfa  was,  as  always,  desperate. 
What  was  not  said  was  that  adding 
to  this  conditioo  is  that  the 
Record  duuges  the  Baptist  Cbil- 


Persons  attending  the  hfississippi 
Baptist  Convention  will  have  the 
opportunity  to  make  direct  dona¬ 
tions  to  missions  diroogh  Book- 
Link. 

The  organizatioa,  affiliated  whh 
the  MissiKippi  Bn^  Educational 
Missions  Fbflowriiip,  will  have  a 
book  drop  in  front  of  the  Baptist 
Building  on  Mississippi  Street  on 
Nov.  9,1^  10. 

The  grmq;)  mails  rehgious  books 
and  thore  related  to  ministerial  edu¬ 
cation  to  foieign  missionaries  and 
national  pastors  in  approximately 
56  cotmtries. 


Coordinating  die  book  drop  is 
Charles  Holladay,  former  state 
superimendent  (tf  schorl  HoUaday 
sau  die  types  of  books  needed  are 
Bibles,  Biole  dictionaries,  Bible 
adases,  expositt^  books,  sermon 
b^is,  discqileship  beh»,  and  study 
course  books. 

“These  should  be  usaUe  books,” 
said  Hoihriay,  “for  overseas  teach¬ 
ing  situations  in  churches,  seminar¬ 
ies,  and  conveiaions.” 

He  said  that  the  orgamzation  has 
some  money  in  hand  for  postage 
which  is  about  75  cents  per  Ib.,  bm 
that  in  some  of  the  requ^,  a  new 


book  needs  to  be  purchased 
Holladay,  widi  45  years  in  educa¬ 
tion,  told  bis  friend  Hal  Buchanan, 
who  beads  im  Book-Iirdc,  that  Mis¬ 
sissippi  neeaed  regular  book  drops 
—  as  does  the  whole  SBC.  He 
agreed  to  heh>  out 
The  drop  will  be  in  {dace  Monday 
afternoon,  Nov.  9,  and  Tuesday 
monang  a^  afternoon. 

Permanent  drops  will  be  in  place 
at  the  Brotist  Building  and  at  Kfis- 
sissippi  College  in  Jennings  Hall. 
Books  mailed  will  only  be  accqited 
at  the  MC  drop  at  200  S.  Cu^ol, 
P.O.  Box  4221,  dioton,  MS  39058. 


number  of  California  churches 
bef(»e  joining  the  Southern  Bqitist 
General  Convention  of  Califorma 
as  director  of  black  church  min¬ 
istries  in  1980.  He  moved  to  the 
Home  Mission  Board’s  black 
church  relations  department  as  a 
national  consuhant  m  1984.  He  is 
a  graduate  of  Califotitia  Baptist 
College  and  Golden  Gate  Semi¬ 
nary  in  San  Randsco. 

Ford,  who  grew  op  in  the 
Auburn  community  east  of  Timlo, 
has  been  a  teacher  and  dean  for  a 
cominned  41  years  at  the  Kfissis- 
sippi  Biptist  Seminary,  which 
conducts  classes  in  Tipdo.  He  has 
paAmed  ei]^  churches  and  served 
as  interim  pastor  in  eight  churches 
during  his  52  years  in  the  ministry. 
He  ai^  his  wife,  Dorothy,  have 
been  married  for  X  years. 

The  award  is  nari^  for  South¬ 
ern  BtptiA  minister  WP.  Davis  of 
Blue  Spri^  and  National  Baptist 
minister  T.B.  Brown  of  Brook- 
haven,  both  of  whom  worked  as 
pioneers  in  racial  recondhation  in 
te  stale  from  the  1950b  until  thdr 
deaths  less  than  two  months  aiart 
in  1989. 


Gmdie  Lee  Fonl  (left,  in  photo 
below)  and  Willie  McPherson 
(second  from  right)  were  present^ 
with  the  1992  Brown-Davis 
Award  Oct  22  at  Rising  Star  Mis¬ 
sionary  Church  in  Tupelo,  in 
recognitioo  of  their  efforts  to  work 
across  cultural  and  radal  differ¬ 
ences  for  the  furtherance  of  the 
eospel.  Richard  Brogan  (second 
from  left),  consultant  m  the  Coop¬ 
erative  l^ssions  Department  of 
MBCB,  and  Bill  Smith  (right),  Lee 
County  director  of  missions,  made 


the  presentations. 

After  the  awards  were  presenled, 
Brogan  led  the  125  participants  in 
a  “breal^  of  bread^  ceremony  in 
recognition  that  Jesus  is  the  bread 
of  life  and  (Christ  is  to  the  spirit 
what  bread  is  to  the  body. 

McPherson  is  an  Okolona  native 
now  saving  as  director  of  Mack 
chnrdi  exteodoo  at  the  Home  Mis¬ 
sion  Board  of  the  Southern  Baptist 
Convention.  He  also  served  as  a 
missionary  associate,  youth  direc¬ 
tor,  assiAant  pastor,  and  paAor  in  a 


Letters  to  the  editor 


Nativity  Conference  scheduled 


Various  piq)ers,  relating  to  the  other  New  Testament  personalities 
broad  subject  of  the  nativity  and  also  come  from  Masaoa). 
chronology  of  Jesus,  will  be  pre-  The  1992  conference  will  also 
sented  at  the  Nativity  n  Confer-  produce  a  memorial  volume  hon- 
ence,  Nov.  21  in  San  Francisco,  oring  Ray  Summers,  long  time 
The  first  such  conference  was  held  professor  of  New  Testament  at 
at  Mississippi  State  University  in  Southern  and  Southwestern  semi- 
Staikville  in  1983.  naries  and  at  Baylor  University. 

New  census  documents  have  just  The  {nesident,  or  a  represeittative, 
been  discovered  demonstrating  from  each  panicq>ating  institution  One  face  I  keep  remembering  — 
that  Roman  census  practice  was  will  present  a  p^r  at  the  meeting,  the  wistful  frK^e  of  a  young  man  in 
craducted  in  Nabatea  in  the  eariy  This  limited  edition  is  being  made  Granada,  Spain.  If  I  didn’t  bate  so 
Second  Centntv,  A.D.  New  light  possible  by  a  number  of  donations  much  to  riim,  I’d  never  have  met 
on  King  Iferod  comes  from  new  mdnding  the  LJ).  Hancock  Foun-  him.  I’d  rather  be  outdoors  any 
Latin  a^  Greek  documeitis  focmd  dation  of  Tupdo.  For  more  infor-  time  looking  at  mountains  and 
at  Masada  (14  documents  in  all  mation  contact  Jerry  Vaidaman,  flowers  than  wearing  out  my  feet 

i  State,  MS  in  a  department  st(we. 


By  Anne  Washburn  McWilliams 


relaie  to  King  Herod,  who  tried  to  Box  1,  Mississip 
kdll  Jesus;  new  texts  relating  to  39762  (601)  323-91! 


The  New  Property  and  Casualty  Insurance 
Program  Offered  by  Preferred  Risk  and 
Approved  by  the  Annuity  Board  Covers 
Everything  From  Here: 


All  New.  Comprehensive  Coverage. 

Affordable  Prices.  Personal  Service. 

Planned  protection  takes  care  of  unplanned  losses.  That's  why  your  church 
needs  to  get  Cornerstone  Plus  -  the  new  property  and  casualty  insurance  pro¬ 
gram  underwritten  by  Preferred  Risk.  From  fire  to  theft,  property  and  casualty 
to  general  liability,  churches  will  have  extensive  protection  from  unplanned 
losses. 

Here  are  some  of  the  ways  this  new  Preferred  Risk 
insurance  program  can  benefit  your  church: 

#  Fast,  efficient  claims  service  with  coast-to-coast  offices 

#  On-the-spot  catastrophe  teams  in  24  hours 
.  #  Free  safety  inspections 

#  Free  accident-prevention  and  loss-control  information 

#  2,600  professional  agents  at  your  service 

#  Personal  planning  meetings  with  church  committees 

#  Timely  updates  on  coverage 

#  Toll-free  Preferred  Risk  Hotline: 


A  good  set  of  tires 
determines  whether  or  rux 

a  missionaries  Marvin  and  liiKla 

Leech  in  Btmgkulu,  Itxlonesia, 

Tires  provided  by  Lottie 
Moon  Christmas  Offering  funds 
enable  the  Leeches  to  travel  in 
their  four-wheel-drive  vehicle  to 
carry  the  gospel  throughout  the 
country.  They  work  each 
weekend  in  a  new  church;  offer 
leadership  training  proems; 
and  visit  Indonesian  friends  to 
share  the  plan  of  salvation. 

The  Leeches  travel  at  least 

10,000  “hard"  miles  a  year.  For  instatKC,  a  180-mile  trip  in 
Indonesia  could  take  up  to  13  hours.  Pray  that  God  will 
continue  to  protect  the  Leeches  from  danger  arnl  accidents  in 
their  day-to-day  ministry. 


Lottie  Hooi  Oristias  Offeriif 
NattoullinI;  $84nlliH 


i 


Pril|riM*s  Rcil  Charcii,  Ethd, 
will  have  dedicadoo  od  Nov.  8 
11  a.in.  for  die  recent  renovation 
and  bricking  of  die  sanctuary.  The 
^mdcer  will  be  Bill  Causey,  exec¬ 
utive  secretary-treasurer,  Missis¬ 
sippi  Bap^  Convention  Board. 
Lu^  wm  be  served  following  the 
11  a.m.  service. 


Jones  Connty  Jnnior  College 

BSU  joined  in  “See  you  at  the  X 

P(de”  prayer  service  with  students 
and  faculty  in  paying  for  our 
nation.  Larry  GoH  BSU  director, 

rqxiited  125  stude^  attended  die  «  mm’ 

first  ‘‘Back  to  School”  welctMne  GAs  at  Ltxia  Charch,  Tyiaftown,  were  recently  recognized  at  a  Mission 
party.  Adventure  banquet  Those  receiving  awards  tbiiowing  the  meal  are  shown 

above,  left  to  light  Amanda  Hill,  Aaron  Conerly,  Jennifer  Conerty.  Cassie 
Cowan  Road  Chnrch,  Gnif-  Hilbum,  Karena  Coneity,  Kim  Conerty,  Patti  Hill,  Jade  Brock,  and  Kamie 
port,  wiD  observe  its  13th  anniver-  Dillon.  In  the  back  row  are  GA  leaders  Lorey  Alford  and  Bonnie  Dunnam. 
si^  on  Nov.  8.  Sunday  School 
will  be  held  at  9:45  ajn.  and  a  qie- 
cial  service  at  11  a.m.  Merrick 
Henry,  {^or,  will  be  the  i^ieaker. 

Lunch  will  be  served  at  nooit 


First  Ctarcli,  Magnolli,  recently  held  a  recognition 
service  in  honor  of  its  mission  service  groups.  GAs 
recognized  are  shown  above,  ieft  to  right:  front  row, 
Shannon  Barron,  Michelle  Flowers,  Molly  Herbert, 
April  Monceret,  Melissa  Jonas;  second  row,  Amanda 
Byrd,  Patricia  Honea,  Tina  Monceret  Tara  Rhodus, 
Kate  Honea,  and  Richelle  Baustian.  Actaens  recognized 
are  shown  below:  front  row,  Leslie  Dickinson,  Robin 
Mainieri;  back  row,  Lori  Jones,  Mellonee  Honea,  Krisfy 
Welch,  and  Holly  Schilling.  At  left  is  Megan  Whitting¬ 
ton,  Mission  Friend. 


Luther  Rice  alumni  meet  Nov.  10 


The  NQssiss^ipi  Alumm  Assoct-  Hills  Church,  Southaven.  Other 
ation  of  Ludier  lUoe  Seminary  will  items  on  the  agenda  include  elec- 
meet  Nov.  10  at  5  pjn.  at  Western  tion  of  officers  and  an  update  on 
Sizzlin’  on  1-55  North,  Jackson,  the  seminary. 

The  meeting,  in  conjunction  with 
the  Mississipp  Baptist  Convention 
annual  meeting,  will  feature 
Steven  Betmett,  pastor  of  Colonial 


The  Duncan  Sisters  will  be  in 
concert  at  First  Charch,  Rose 
HiH,  Jas^  County,  on  Nov.  8  at  6 
p.m.  Keith  Bogan  is  pastor. 


ORDER  DIRECT 

Name  Brand  Carpet  &  Vinyl 

•  Reeidential  and  Commercial 
•  Any  specHicalions 

For  information  and  samploa. 
cal  tol  free 

Bearden  Carpet 
and  Textile 
1-800-223-8916 


Pents.  pulpits,  baptistries. 

V^n  Winkle 

vail  wiiiniv  steeples,  lightirtg. 

Church  Mdittg  Ooors. 

_  ...  _  theater  seats. 

Furnishings  & 

Pew  Upholstery 

Box  SOI,  Fulton,  MS.  38843 
In  MS  1bH  Free  1-800a24-9627  . 


A  church  has  different  requirements 
than  most  other  buildings  an  insurance 
company  covers.  It  represents  the 
shared  commitment  and  sacrifice  of 
many  people . . .  it's  an  invaluable 
emotk^  investment. 

Church  Mutual  hasspedalized  in 
insuringchurches  for  nea^  1 00  years. 
Today  we  are  the  nation’s  laigest 
insurer  of  churches,  protecting  over 
5,800 Southern  Baptist  churches  alone. 

We  know  you  can  never  forget 
the  enduring  importance  of  your 
church  in  the  lives  of  your  congrega¬ 
tion.  We  take  the  critical  step  of  getting 
to  knowyourchurch  Firsthand  to  learn 
your  unique  needs  and  concerns. 

To  Iram  about  the  difference  that 
our  personalized,  specialized  expertise 
and  competitive  insurance  coveri^ 
can  mean  toyou  andyourcongregation, 
write  or  call  us  at  1-800-542-3465. 


BAPTIST  BOOK  STORES 

Become  a  vital  pit  cf  ■  growing  Chrirtim  Book  Store 
(xgmwjitiop!  fl»»tingtrMnedaiidcBq)eri«PcedpeninniieHbrkey 
leadenhip  poeitaana. 

BOOK  STORE  MANAGERS  A  MANAGER  TRADVEES 

Minimum  raquirementa  include: 

*  Bachelor's  Degree 
(Business  Degree  desired) 

*  Active  member  of  a  Southern  Baptist  (3iurdi 

•  Willing  to  relocate  anywhere  in  United  Stat^ 

•  Retail  experienoe  desired. 

If  qualified  phase  send  leeume  with  sahny  hisbxy  and  referenoee  to: 

Book  Store  Search  Committee 
Human  Reaouroes  Department 
Baptist  Sunday  School  Board 
127  Ninth  Avenue,  North 
Nashville,  TN  37234 
(Equal  Opportunity  Employer) 


n  For  Sleepy 

MS  DOS/IBM  M 
Computers  ^ 

Available  now:  Church 
Treasurer.  Offering  Records, 
Membership/Prospects, 
Question  Maker,  Bible  Studies 
Demo  Disk  $6.00 

Includes  two  free  progrsnu: 
Checkbook  Hel|m  ind 
Interest  Cstculslor. 

r^n  *  *  0  IWOaMATION  SVSTIMS 
I—  U  U3S  aiASI,  BUXNI,  OR  fitn 

^  ™  1-503-689-3200 


The  Specialist 


Church  MutusI 
3(XX)  Schuster  Lane 
P.0.BOX357-S 
Merritt,  WI 54452 


imperial 


Manufacturer  Sereins  the  Naliun,  Since  19A0 

1-800-234-6624 


Custom  C  hurch 
Interiors 


1-800-654-1294 

ot  601  'e .  M  1 


dosU  State  College  and  did  grad¬ 
uate  woik  at  New  Orieans  Semi- 
naiy  where  he  earned  the  master 
of  ^vinity  and  the  doctor  of  the- 
(4ogy  degrees. 


•astor 


Mrs.  Lalioii  Bny,  a  member  of 
New  Libert^  Church,  Glen,  has  34 
years  of  perfect  attendance  in  Sun¬ 
day  School.  Her  husband  is  pastor 
of  New  Liberty.  She  is  pictured 
above  with  Greg  Kennedy,  assistant 
Sunday  School  director. 


The  Mississippi  College  School  of  Education  awarded  the  Kappa  Delta 
Pi  Ann  Wilson  Clark  Memorial  Scholarship  to  Tracy  Lynn  Brannon  (cen¬ 
ter)  of  Meridian.  On  hand  for  the  presentation  were  Rachel  T.  Peeples 
(left)  of  Madison,  instructor  of  education:  and  Alan  O’Dell  of  Clinton,  asso¬ 
ciate  dean  of  the  School  of  Education.  (MC  photo) 

Edwards  is  new  HK  i 

Lauderdale  DOM 


PEWS— PULPITS 


First  Church,  B»  SL  Louis,  rec¬ 
ognized  Margarat  DaHaan  Sept  27 
for  completing  25  years  of  perfect 
attendance  in  Sunday  School.  Ed 
Deuschle  is  pastor. 


Sixteen  ieet  of  retractable  screening  on 
each  side  of  a  storage  cabinet  with  marlcer 
board. 

^  •  sound  absorbing  panels 
I  •  locking  casters 
B  •  completaly  portable  and  varsable 
r  •  available  in  a  variety  of  firtishee  and 

^  COlOfB 

•  perfect  for  temporary  Sunday  School 
or  small  group  use 


The  adult  choir  of  Glllsburg 
Church,  Osyka,  recently  honored 
Hilda  Blount  on  her  55tn  consecu¬ 
tive  year  as  organist/pianist  Ken 
Adams,  music  director,  presented 
her  with  a  plaque  and  flowers.  Paul 
Pearson  is  pastor. 

Renee  Scheldt  will  appear  in  con¬ 
cert  at  West  EUisville  Church, 
ElhsviUe,  on  Nov.  8  at  7  pjn.  Call 
477-9989  for  more  infotnuakn. 


Available  from  Mississippi  School  Supply  Company. 
Call  Patty  Self  at  948-8600  or  800-222-7698. 


Are  you  paying  too  much  for  your  hospital  or  Medicare 
Supidemeot  Insuxanoe?  If  the  answer  Is  YES,  call  or  fill 
out  coupon  bdow. 


Bernard  Ebbera  was  honored 
Oct  24  by  Kfissiasra  College  with 
the  **Alumin8  of  the  Year”  award 
for  1992.  A  1967  gradinie,  received 
his  award  from  the  National  Alnmiii 
Association  duiiirg  its  annual  alum¬ 
ni  hmeheon  on  campus. 

The  Brotherhood  Conudssion 
has  named  Timothy  Craig  Seanor, 
36,  as  national  Royal  Ambassador 
director.  He  succeeds  Karl  Boze- 
m^  who  retired  May  31.  Seanor 
will  be  responsible  fw  promoting 
and  diiectiDg  the  national  RA  pro¬ 
gram 


Q  MBDICARB  SUFFUClIEIfT 

•  100%  Part  A  ($652.00)  deductible 

•  100%  Part  B  ($100.00)  deductiUe 

•  100%  Part  A  &  B  copayment 

•  Onnpare  our  affwdalde  rntmthty  rates: 
Age/Rate  —  65/$68;  72/$79.33:  80/$95.84 
No  watting  perl^  on  pre-existing  conditions. 

Persons  under  Medicare  disability  may  also  aqrply. 


son.  If  you  want  a  sketch  or  cari- 
catura  of  Nm/har  in  tha  cartoon, 
$100.  Sand  2  photos.  I  pay  all 
postage.  Sand  check  with  your 
order.  Quarantaad.  Joe  McKaav- 
ar,  P.O.  Box  1357,  Kenner,  LA 
70063. 


FOB  SALE:  WhHa  1078  21-pas- 
sangar  bus  with  ratrwnufaoturad 
350  angina,  P-^OChasaia,  H/D 
raarand,  auto  trarOEfiSsion,  dual 
rear  whaaia,  power  brakes  and 
doors.  $4,500  Call  825-3313  and 
laavs  massage. 


ADOPTION  —  Craativa,  furvlov- 
ing  ooupla  longing  to  be  a  famHyl 
Hopefully  wa  can  help  each  othw 
through  a  difficult  tkna.  Please  cal 
Jan  and  Michael  (802)  235-2312 
oolact. 


POND  STOCKERS  —  Catfish, 
bream,  grass  carp.  Phone  (601) 
267-0850  at  night. 


B.  F.  Hutton  Insnnmce  Bfazketing 
P.  O.  Box  26 
CUnton,  lie  39060 

1-601-924-2300 

1-800-737-2300 

_ Age: _ 

_ Fhmie: _ 


SEARCY  MINISTRIES  needs 
parson  to  arrange  corroarts,  ral- 
iaa.  aaminarB.  1-800-478-4307. 


PEWS  NEW  A  USED 

Pew  RefinishIng  &  Reupholstering 
Stain  Glass  •  Carpet  •  Lights 
Painting  •  Complete  Renovations 


DEFEND  FAMILY  VALUE8l| 
Avoid  violent,  pornographic 
moviasi  Stop  liberal  biasi  Call 
Moral  Madia’s  review  line  at  1- 
000-788-8667  ($3  par  min.)  Chris¬ 
tian,  famlly-oriantad  movie 
raviawsi 


Name: 

Street: 

Cl^._ 


HONORING  YOUR  MINISTER? 

Or  your  Sunday  School  teacher? 
How  about  a  pareonalizad  cartoon 
—  hand-drawn,  water-colored, 
0x12”,  ready  to  be  framed.  $50. 
Sand  informatkMi  about  tha  par- 


i 


Life  and  Work  Uniform 

Faithful  to  Christ’s  purpose  You  eure  held  accountable 


By  Milton  Bnrd 

2  nmothy  2:1-3, 8-10, 14-15, 24-26 


By  Margaret  H.  Rogers 
Amos  2:6-3:2 


All  of  us  recall  ttx>se  experioices  with  a  pesky,  persistent 
fly  or  mosquito.  They  never  give  up.  They  continue  to 
attack  until  the  battle  is  ended  with  a  fly  swatter  or  bug 
spny.  Their psrsistetkce  is  well  known  Paul  continually 
encouraged  Timothy  in  his  first  letter  to  teadi  the  goqpd 
faithfully  and  reinfotced  tus  encouragement  in  this  lemon 
from  2  Timothy  2.  Paul  used  several  examples  of  steadfast 
(persislettt)  service  to  encourage  Timothy,  m  wrote  about 
a  soldier,  an  athlete,  a  fanner,  a  workman,  a  house  (vessel), 
and  a  servant  All  of  these  are  examries  of  faithful  service. 
But  Paul  also  instructed  'nmothy  to  begin  to  prepare  others 
to  teach.  Let’s  look  at  our  sct:q>tore  passage. 

Exhortatioa  to  farthfalness  (w.  1-3).  Paul  challenged 
Timothy  to  remain  strong  and  ^thful  in  his  work  of  & 
Goq>el.  But  he  also  add^  “in  the  grace  that  is  in  Clnist 
Jesus,”  which  indicates  the  source  for  strength.  Timodiy 
was  to  continue  to  depend  on  that  grace.  It  not  only  saves 
but  provides  strength. 

Paul  was  very  persistent  in  his  challen^  to  Timothy  to 
remain  faithful.  'Ilus  was  ui^rmost  in  Im  letters  to  1^. 

But  now  in  verse  2,  Paul  moves  progressively  forward.  He 
requested  Timothy  to  entrust  these  truths  to  relud>le  men 
who  will  also  be  qualified  to  teach  others.  Paul  knew  that 
Timothy  needed  help.  Sharing  the  goqiel  is  not  a  one  man 
job.  It  has  been  entrusted  to  many  through  the  years.  Timo¬ 
thy  was  to  become  an  equipper  in  additioo  to  pastor/ 
teacher. 

The  reason  for  faitfafhliiess  (w.  8-10).  “Remember 
Jesus  Christ!”  Tliis  was  the  command  from  Paul  to  Timo¬ 
thy.  Remember  that  Christ  was  descended  from  David,  that 
be  was  resurrected  from  the  dead.  He  was  human  and 
divine.  He  was  God  incarnate.  Christ  was  the  perfect  exam¬ 
ple  of  steadfast,  sacrificial  service. 

Paul  eiqdained  diat  even  though  he  was  sufferiiig  and 
chained  hke  a  criminal,  the  Word  of  (jod  was  not  chained. 
God’s  Word  is  at  w(»k  in  the  world  to  work  in  the  lives  of 
people.  You  may  chain  the  messenger,  but  tibe  message  will 
never  be  subdued  So  Paul  did  not  wallow  in  self  pity.  He 
fouixl  great  joy  and  satisfaction  in  knowing  God’s  redemp¬ 
tive  w^  would  cominue. 

Paul  gave  the  reason  for  his  own  steadfast  endurance.  It 
was  for  the  sake  of  the  elect,  that  they  may  (Obtain  salvatioa 
Everyone  is  dected  to  be  saved  and  Paul  knew  that  even  in 
his  suflering  that  others  were  b^g  saved 

A  basis  for  God’s  approval  (w.  14-15).  Paul’s  great 
ccxicem  about  false  teachers  and  their  potential  fm-harm 
was  uppermost  in  his  mind  when  he  told  Timothy  to  keqi 
reminding  tbnn  (the  elect)  of  these  things.  Do  not  become 
involved  in  quarrels  over  words.  It  will  be  noimrodnctive 
and  confusing.  Do  not  be  combative  widi  the  nlse  teachers 
or  within  die  fellowshq).  Instead  Timothy  was  to  present 
himself  to  Gcxl  as  an  approved  workman  who  did  not  need 
to  be  ashamed.  “Do  your  best”  conveys  the  meaning  of  dili¬ 
gence  and  persistence  in  doing  God’s  woik.  An  approved 
worker  correctly  handles  the  word  of  truth.  The  fate  teach¬ 
ers  cannot  be  approved  because  they  mishandle  the  truth.  2 
Timothy  2:15  is  one  of  the  well-known  verses  in  the  Bible. 
We  need  to  let  these  words  speak  to  us  today  as  we  do  our 
best  to  be  approved  workers. 

The  attitude  of  the  fatthfril  (w.  24-25).  Paul  implied 
that  the  Lord’s  servants  most  also  have  an  attitude  that  will 
undergird  steadfast  service.  Do  not  quarrel;  be  kind  to 
everyone.  Do  not  be  resentful  or  car^  a  grudge.  Instead,  - 
cultivate  the  ability  to  gently  teach  others.  How  often  have 
we  learned  this  lesson  the  luud  way? 

A  potential  result  of  faithfhlness  (w.  25b-26).  A  gentle 
attitude  toward  others  may  result  in  leading  them  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  Leading  otheis  to  repentance 
becomes  the  goal  of  steadfast  service.  Repentance  leads 
persons  to  discover  saving  grace  in  Christ  Jesus.  We  are 
called  R)  the  same  goal  today.  We  can  serve  steadfastly  so 
that  others  may  find  the  truth  in  Christ.  What  a  great  privi¬ 
lege  we  have  in  serving  Christ! 

Burd  is  minister  of  education.  First  Chuirh,  Cleve- 


Bible  Book 

Victory  through  the  Spirit 


By  R.  David  Raddin 
Romans  8:1-4, 14-17, 22-23, 28-31 


TThe  name  Amos  means  “burden”  or  “sustained”  Amos  is 
called  the  prophet  of  righteousness.  He  was  a  herdsman  and 
a  pruner  of  sycamore  trees  from  the  small  town  of  Tdcoa, 

12  miles  south  of  Jerusalem.  He  was  not  a  man  of  the  court 
like  Isaiah,  nor  was  he  of  priestly  lineage  like  Jetenuah. 

Though  Amos  lived  in  Judah,  he  was  sent  to  announoe 
God’s  judgment  on  the  Northern  Kingdcmi  of  Israel.  Amos 
prophesied  during  the  reigns  of  King  Uzziah  and  King  Jer-  ^ 
obcMun  n  about  760-750  B.C.  Tliis  pericxl  in  Israel’s  history 
was  marked  by  peace  and  proximity,  but  it  was  also 
accompanied  by  an  almost  uquecedei^  degree  of  social 
corruption.  Tliaefore,  Amos’  theme  was  that  social  justice 
is  an  mdiqiensable  enuessioo  of  true  piety.  Amos  was  a 
vigcuous  ^lokesman  for  God’s  justice  and  ri^tteousness, 
and  he  condemned  tiiose  who  became  rich  and  powerful  at 
the  expense  of  others. 

Amos  points  out  Israel’s  sins  (Amos  2:6-8).  Amos’ 
inaugurd  sermon  in  du^iters  one  and  two  is  a  remarkaUe 
pn^ihetic  utterance.  Ife  delivered  that  sermon  with  the  skill 
of  a  master  orator.  One  wonders  how  many  days  and  nights 
this  lonely  shepherd  ^nt  with  God  in  the  preparation  of 
tile  message.  Amos’  message  is  a  striking  example  of  the 
most  effe^ve  ways  to  preach  to  a  hostile  audience.  He 
cqitur^  their  attention  by  denouncing  sins  of  the  surround¬ 
ing  nations  and  pronouncing  God’s  wrath  on  those  nations. 
'Tl^  be  frdlow^  with  a  pronounoement  of  doom  upon 
Israel.  The  crowd  was  alert  to  every  word  until  be  began  to 
pour  forth  judgment  of  Yahwehiqion  Israel  for  their  sins. 
Amos  told  them  that  tiie  rich  grew  richer  and  tiie  poor, 
poorer.  The  courts  were  corrupt,  and  gross  immorality  pre¬ 
vailed  in  the  homes  and  in  the  land.  Amos,  accustomed  to 
the  sifnple  life,  'was  disgusted  ^tii  the  pampered  lives  of 
the  rich  and  tiie  irreverence  of  tiieir  worship. 

Amos  reminds  Israd  of  God’s  Messfa^  (w.  9-12). 

God  had  made  room  for  Israel  to  occupy  Omaan  as  be  had 
given  Israel  victory  over  the  inhabitants  of  Canaan.  Amos 
tdd  Israel  of  bow  even  the  giants  of  tiie  land,  the  Amorites, 
had  been  overcome  by  God^s  power.  God  bad  led  bis  peo- 
jtie  out  of  bondage  from  Egypt  and  sustained  them  tiiiough 
the  40  years  of  wilderness  wanderings.  God  had  called  cer¬ 
tain  young  men  as  Nazarites  and  promts.  Ahhougb  tiie 
Nazarites  had  taken  vows  of  purity  f^  their  lives,  they 
were  influenced  to  denounce  those  vows.  Even  the  prophets 
were  commanded  not  to  prophesy. 

God’s  punishment  is  promised(3:l-2).  It  is  no  wonder 
God  upbraided  Israel  at  their  re^ioose  to  all  the  qnritual 
privileges  they  enjoyed  as  a  holy  nation.  It  was  an  honor 
that  they  had  cbildrra  of  their  own  to  be  God’s  messengers 
to  them.  God  charged  them  with  abuse  of  all  the  means  of 
grace  they  enjoyed  TTie  children  of  Israel  would  not  regard 
the  words  God  bad  qxtiten  to  them,  and  they  must  hear  the 
words  of  reproof.  All  the  favors  God  bad  bestowed  could 
not  exempt  them  from  the  punishment  for  tteir  sins.  Amos 
explained  to  the  nation  that  the  reason  for  their  purushment 
was  their  complete  misundetsumding  of  the  nature  of  true 
religion.  Israel  thought  that  religion  and  social  morality 
were  separate  matters;  however,  God’s  expectation  was 
love  and  faithfulness  to  him,  sincerity  of  heart,  and  justice 
tootiieis. 

Amos  was  a  dedicated  prc^ih^  who  qxAe  out  against  the 
evils  of  his  day.  Ife  knew  what  God’s  le^xxise  was  to  tiieir 
hypocritical  worship.  Religion  and  social  morality  are 
in^arable.  A  man  must  love  both  God  and  tus  ^owmaiL 
Was  this  not  the  emphasis  of  Jesus  laler  to  his  followers? 
'The  wrath  of  God  is  never  vindictive.  All  divine  justice  is 
an  expression  of  God’s  love,  and  its  purpose  is  r^mptive. 

This  study  of  Amos  should  be  a  remiriderto  Christians  of 
God’s  blessing  and  the  ensuing  responsibility  to  show  love 
to  him  and  to  show  justice  to  a  nee^,  sinful  wmld. 

Rogers  Is  a  member  of  Salem  Church,  ColHns. 


“I  expect  to  past  through  this  world  but  once.  Any  good 
thing,  therefore,  that  I  can  do  or  any  kindness  /  can  show 
to  any  fellow  human  being  let  me  do  it  now.  Let  me  not 
defer  nor  neglect  it,  for  I  shall  not  pass  this  way  again. " 

—  Stephen  Grellet 


“Therefore,  there  is  now  no  condemnation  for  those  who 
are  in  Christ  Jesus,  because  through  Christ  Jesus  the  law  of 
tiie  anrit  of  life  set  me  free  from  &e  law  of  sin  and  death” 
(w.  1-2).  Throng  Jesus  we  ate  offered  victo^  over  life  and 
over  deatii.  The  victory  comes  to  afl  who  believe  in  him  as 
Lord  and  Savior. 

*  The  Sfrihit  makes  ns  firee  (8:1-4).  What  a  statement  of 
freedom:  New  life  in  Christ  delivers  the  believer  from  the 
old  life  of  sin  and  death.  The  bondage  of  sin  as  the  law  of 
life  bti^  condemnation  from  God.  To  live  witiiout  sin  is 
impossible,  as  all  have  sinned.  Thanks  be  to  God  that  be 
“commendetii  tus  love  toward  us,  in  that,  while  we  were  yet 
siimers,  Christ  died  fitt  us”  (Rmn.  5:8).  The  law  of  the  Spir¬ 
it  of  life  ctrnies  by  God’s  matchless  grace  that  enables  sin¬ 
ners  like  you  and  me  to  find  life  in  Christ 

“For  the  law  was  poweriess  to  do  in  that  it  was 
weakened  by  the  sinful  nature,  God  did  by  sending  his  own 
Son  in  the  likeness  of  sinful  man  to  be  a  sin  offering.  And 
so  be  condemned  sin  in  sinful  man,  in  order  tiuit  the  right¬ 
eous  requirements  of  tiie  law  might  be  fitity  met  in  os,  who 
do  not  live  according  to  the  sinful  nature  bm  according  to 
the  Spirit”  (w.  3-4).  Our  sin  keeps  os  from  the  ri^deoos- 
ness  required  by  the  law.  Jesus  came  as  a  man,  yet  did  not 
sin.  He  diose  to  live  his  life  as  the  only  accrataUe  sacrifice 
for  our  sins.  Through  Jesus,  and  only  throo{h  him,  we  can 
have  eternal  life  and  live  according  to  the  Spirit. 

The  Spirit  witnesses  that  we  are  God’s  children  (8:14- 
17).  “Fm  you  did  not  receive  a  ipirit  that  makes  you  a  slave 
again  to  fcai,  but  you  received  tte  Spirit  of  somi^.  And  by 
him  we  cry,  Abba,  Father”  (v.  15).  J.W.  McGorman,  in 
Romans:  Everyn^’s  Go^pd,  points  out  three  aspects  of 
soosliip.  The  flm  is  tiae  test  of  sooshq>:  “All  who  are  led  by 
the  Spirit  of  God  are  sons  of  God”  (v.  14).  Be^  a  child  of 
God  IS  evidenced  by  being  d^  led  bv  Spirit  ot  God. 

The  second  aspect  is  the  privilege  of  soashq>.  The  right  to 
call  God  “Abba,  Iteher”  is  a  privile^  that  is  given  by  the 
Father  to  his  children.  “Abba^’  is  an  intimate  term  us^  by  a 
Jewish  boy  for  his  father.  The  word  reminds  os  of  the  per¬ 
sonal  relationship  Jesus  has  with  those  who  believe  in  him. 

The  third  aspect  is  the  assurance  of  sonslte:  “The  Spirit 
himself  testifies  with  our  qyiiit  that  we  are  God’s  children” 
(v.  16)l  As  children  we  are  heirs.  Paul  enqihasizes  sharing 
in  Ch^’s  suffering  Ifis  intent  is  to  show  the  suffering  tiM 
comes  as  a  result  of  frtilowirtg  Christ 

The  Spirit  assures  ns  that  vfeto^  wfll  come  (8:22-23). 
God’s  creation  “groans”  with  pain  in  the  {uesent  world. 

Paul  writes  of  the  drcomstances  in  which  Christians  live. 

In  the  trials  of  life,  we  “groan”  as  we  “wait  eagerly  for  our 
adoption  as  sons,  the  redemption  of  our  bodies”  (v.  23). 
God’s  Spirit  assures  os  that  victory  WILL  come. 

Confidence  in  God’s  purpose  (8:28-30).  “And  we  know 
that  in  aU  things  God  worirs  for  the  good  of  those  who  love 
him,  who  have  been  called  according  to  his  purpose”  (v. 
28).  God  works  fm  good  even  in  the  midst  of  bad  circum¬ 
stances.  When  life  is  hard,  God  works  to  bring  good  out  of 
hard  times.  McGorman  says,  “Evil  and  tragedy  are  real  in 
the  wodd,  and  sometimes  G^’s  peoftie  suffer  crustung  sor¬ 
row.  We  must  refrain  from  attributing  to  the  ‘will  of  CRxl’ 
that  which  is  not  true  of  God’s  reveh^on  of  turn!  God  is 
not  responsible  fm  teniUe  crimes,  sinful  men  are.  Yet 
God’s  love  and  tesonrces  are  so  great  that  he  can  overrule 
in  the  tragedies  we  suffer.  Whether  sorrow  and  teats,  or 
joys  and  taugfeer,  he  can  work  through  them  all  to  make  us 
increasinglv  like  Jesus  Christ  And  that  is  what  God’s  grace 
is  all  abour’  (Romans:  Everyman’s  Gospd,  p.  103). 

Be  careful  to  understand  thtt  these  verses  do  not  say  that 
God  works  for  the  good  of  all  people  but  “of  tiiose  wte 
love  him.”  God  does  not  take  the  rejection  of  himself  and 
sin  lightly.  “The  wages  of  sin  is  de^..,”  says  Romans 
6:23,  “but  the  gift  of  God  is  eternal  life  in  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.”  We  need  to  hear  and  accept  ttis  ftik 

Victory!  (8:31).  “What,  then,  shaU  we  say  in  response  to 
this?  If  CJod  is  for  ns,  who  can  be  against  os?”  God  won  tiie 
ultimate  victory  over  sin  and  death  through  the  cross.  God 
gives  us  victory  as  we  give  ourselves  to  him  as  Lord  and 
live  in  personal  lelatiorafaipto  Christ 

Raddin  is  pastor,  First  Church,  Yaaoo  City. 


»  I  . 


THE  VILLAGE  VIEW 

Vhe 

H  ®  AptUt  ^ilUk^c 

Ronny  E.  Robinson.  Executive  Director  ^C^OTjJEC 


P.  O.  Box  27. 
Clinton.  MS  39060-0027 
(601)  922-2242 


C 

ACCBEDITED 

<B 


Thank  You! 

Fbr  the  fiist  time  in  several  years  we  have  not  only  met,  but  exceed¬ 
ed  oar  BACK  TO  SCHOOL  goal  Hie  goal  for  1992  was  $85,000. 
We  received  $91333.21.  It  wotdd  not  tove  been  possible  wi^ut 
your  genero^  —  Thank  yonl 

The  Bi^Mist  Childien’s  Village  received  37  invitations  to  1992  Rdl 
Asiodational  Meetings.  Thanks  to  each  of  you  for  allowing  os  time 
cm  yoor  pionam  to  share  each  year  new  thit^  that  God  is  doing  in 
onr  midst.  Tnank  yon. 


COME  BY  AND  SHAKE  OUR  HAND 


Sept.  1,1992 - 
Sept  30, 1992 


MEMORIALS 


Mir.*ini.l.P.U> 


lir.nita.ca 
Mr.CT.Mjw^ta. 
Itanita-Dtatav* 


Mi.  n  ita.  a  a 

ItanitaiW.T.IWIta 


Gifts  of  Honor  and  Memory 


A  poitioo  of  The  Village  l^ew  is  allocated  each  month  to  a  list  of 
Gifts  of  Honor  and  Memory.  Many  gro<q)S  and  individuals  elect  to  pay 
tribute  to  otbea  tfaioaA  this  sensitive,  meaningfal  and  helpful  medi^. 
This  feature  is  hoperolly  designed  to  further  honor,  with  taste  and 
reqiect,  tboK  who  are  and  have  been  qiedal  to  our  qiecial  friends. 


Henry  Glaze  recently 
awarded  Maggie  Winters 
with  her  1  -year  Service 
Pin  for  her  work  as  Child 

\ 

Care  Worker  on  our  India 
Nunnery  Campus.  Maggie 
works  with  our  Emergency 
Care  Program. 


The  CHOICE  (Choosing 
Higher  Objectives  in  Chal¬ 
lenging  Experiences)  ele¬ 
ment  demonstrated  this 
week  is  The  Wall."  The 
ok^ective  is  to  see  how 
quickly  and  efficiently  an 
entire  group  can  safely  get 
up  and  over  the  10* 
smooth-sided  wall.  The 
Counseling  Department 
uses  this  element  to  aid  in 
teaching  young  people  to 
work  through  problems,  to 
work  together,  to  trust,  to 
overcome  fears  (barriers), 
to  challenge  themselves 
physically  and  to  experi¬ 
ence  exhilaration  and 
pride. 


lfem.tanTi,ta 
■— taftaCtaw* 

Mr.  ^  Ita.  H— ■  Cbta 
A^WtaliUiTiyta 
Mi.  *  Ita.  Crfta  taM  Sr. 
Jit«i  AAm  Amms 
Mr.  A  lib*.  Mk»  MeAlpta 
BugiitaM 

Ml.  *  Ita.  BO,  W.  BntaiiVi 

TMaMS|*Ttara 
Mr.  B  Ita.  Mm»I  B.  OiKtam 
Mf«.  ItafMt  WUmb 
Mn  IlMilfTmlli 
Mi;  BMn.  WalMrB.  Moon 
lta.lter1BI 
Mi..ltalor<**<»P< 

Ifr.  Jotaaj  Ttaotj,  Sr. 

Crotao >BiftfatCtarA 
KarwTtaMii^ 

Mk  *  Mn.  KataM  D.  Itanu. 
BM1B.TM»ii»|>i 
Mr.  *  Ita.  AbMoa  Tntai^^ 
MoMSr  UrSirMi 
Ita  *  Ita.  StaM  B.  Srtaw 
Ita-rtataUirT 

lfe*lta.takilnta« 
lta.WJii«Lnillnli  I 
Mi.  BMn.A.Cn^M 


Mo  *  Mb.  aim  B.  SbMi 
Do  *  Ita.  T.  SoM  MM>r 
D.T.WMIO 

Mr.*Mn.W.M.PI,p*> 

JMrA.WMIo 

Mi.*MioKooBMmi 

MoAMn-taMlSWii 


kh.  <M«  W.  Va  ihoM  Ir. 
ta.JwiflCWBBoM 
l*.ltahBllt.Willkn< 


Homa,  Sh.roo  B  ChriBopSor 


IB-.  Lpaa  tapir  WBao 
Mi.BMb.DomMDm 
BM  WtaSarr 
MaLaWnno 
Ifcfc  BMrwr  CSaky)  HrBaS 
ta.BMB.B>,CHhM 
DoBMaHniirnOTIrd 
Ita  B  Mb.  C  P.  Wrdnata 


Mr.BMB.BitaCtaay 


IiAb.  JwbI  SigMi 
Ife'.CA.WlM 
Mr.Blta.PrMaAlla 
ta*.  Tataai# 

Mr.  B  Mb.  Han  WOao  Imt 
ltaLMrMa.ta. 

lta.A.DlHBtaa 
Mm  tab,  TrNatai 
lta.BBai.OBMia 
DmBvYoItbm 
OaBrytaCbacb 
M.J.T.Yra4 
Mn.KBirKav 

TrmBVoait 

M.  B  Mb.  Btaal  I.  Mope 


Atthe 

Baptist  Children’s  Village  Booth 
Mississippi  Baptist  Convention 
Nov.  9-11,  First  Church,  Jackson 


As  is  our  custom,  we  will  serve  that  delicious  "red 
punch”  and  coffee.  Come,  visit,  and  let  us  answer 
your  questions.  We  will  be  looking  for  you. 


ItaBMoPWaABa 


My  name  is  Kelli  Salers.  I  go  to  My  name  is  Giimy  Wol£  I  am  10 
Edinburg  School  and  am  in  the  6th  years  old.  My  hobbies  are  reading, 
grade.  I  go  to  Remus  Baptist  swimming,  writing  letters,  and 
Omrch.  I  live  in  Carthage,  Miss,  shopping.  I  would  like  to  have  a 
My  hobbies  are  reading,  playing  pen  My  address  is: 
baseball,  and  horseback  riding.  If  Rt  1,  Box  167-A 

you  would  like  to  be  my  pen  pal.  Forest,  MS  39074. 

here’s  my  address: 

Rt  8,  Box  161-C 
Carthage,  MS  390S1 


"Unit  In  any  Langnagt”  was  the  theme  of  a  recent  Lori  Amos;  back  row,  Lori  Beth  Salyer,  Jenny  West- 
GA  recognition  service  held  at  Easttiaven  Church,  brook,  Kelly  Jones,  Nakiskia  Nash,  Ciisay  Rutledge. 
Brookhaven.  Participating  In  the  service  were,  from  Amanda  Westbrook,  Ana  Case,  Monica  Pitts,  Lacey 
left;  front  row,  Linds^  Holmes,  Jeniw  Hill,  Kayia  Allen,  Holmes,  and  Erin  Lyons.  Bendon  Ginn  is  pastor. 

Emily  Williamson,  Anna  Lee  Etheridge.  Lindy  Salyer, 


The  Kids  Praise  Kampara  of  Van  Winkle  Church,  enrolled  in  the  week-long  camp.  Directors  were  Lance 
Jackson,  presented  “Psalty’s  Missing  9,  The  Secret  of  Fendley  and  Carolyn  Stringer.  Mike  Burc^nski  is  pas- 
How  to  Grow  in  the  Lord,"^  under  the  direction  of  Beni-  tor. 
ta  Johnsey  this  summer.  There  were  60  children 


Pilgrims  to  Color 


a  U' 
•ro 
mor 

'UJJ 

I 

5  a  »  -j 
»> 

'  1 
c>Oo«r 


This  is  a  Thanksgiving  Day  picture.  Try  to  find 
the  following  items  hidden  in  the  picture:  an  ax, 
an  ear  of  corn,  a  turkey,  a  wooden  spoon,  a  ket¬ 
tle,  a  duck,  a  tepee,  a  pumpkin,  an  apple,  and  an 
Indian. 


(o  wht4e  9  blua 
n  Qr«*n 


Novemoer 


