NORTHWEST 


INSIDE 

GREEN  SQUAD  DEFEATS  WHITE 

►  The  traditional  Green  and  White  Scrimdge  was  lick* 
Saturday  with  Green  squad  winning  25-15.  Pag#  9 

FOOTBALL  FRENZIE  BEGINS 

> 

►  Fans  break  out  their  water  jugs  and  prepare  to  watch  the 
upcoming  football  season.  Page  11 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


Vol.  66  -  Issue  3 


1  Section  - 1 2  Pages 


Northwest  Missouri  State  University 


POSITION  FINALIST 


FOR-PROFIT  ORG. 
U.S.  POSTAGE 
PAID 
PERMIT  NO.  215 
MARYVILLE,  MO 


Maryville,  Mo. 


Coffee  houses,  little  taverns’  Hubbard  interests 


and  now  Northwest 


Northern  Arizona 


JON  BRITTON/Northwest  Missourian 


SUSY  BOGGUSS  PERFORMS  for  the  audience  gathered  in  the  Mary  entertained  the  crowd  with  stories  and  anecdotes  from  her  life  on  the 
Linn  Performing  Arts  Center  Monday.  Bogguss  has  a  new  album  road.  She  recently  completed  a  national  tour  with  Dwight  Yoakam. 
coming  out  in  three  weeks.  In  addition  to  her  music,  Bogguss  The  two  performed  at  the  Missouri  State  Fair  Sunday  night. 


President  did  not  seek 
position  but  will  weigh 
all  options  in  deciding 

By  SCOTT  A.  PUMMELL 

Associate  Editor 

University  President  Dean  Hubbard 
has  been  named  one  of  Five  finalists  for 
the  vacant  presidential  position  at 
Northern  Arizona  University. 

“It  is  the  goal  of  our  Regents  to  have 
the  position  filled  by  Jan.  1,”  according 
to  Jane  Manning,  director  of  News  and 
Information  at  Northern  Arizona  Uni¬ 
versity. 

Hubbard  said  he  was  notified  by 
letter  he  was  being  considered  for  the 
position  earlier  this  year. 

“I  just  sent  them  the  standard  letter 
first  that  said  I  wasn  ’  t  looking  for  a  job, 
but  I  was  honored  for  them  to  think 
about  me,”  Hubbard  said.  “I  didn’t 
send  a  resume  or  anything  of  that  na¬ 
ture.” 

Hubbard  was  notified  he  was  one  of 
the  finalists  out  of  the  original  149 
people  being  considered  for  the  posi¬ 
tion.  Afterspeaking  with  them ,  Hubbard 
visited  Arizona  last  weekend  to  discuss 
the  position. 

“They  asked  me  what  I  wanted  to 
know,  and  so  I  got  together  with  them 
last  Saturday,  but  never  actually  went 
to  the  campus,”  Hubbard  said.  “They 
called  me  the  next  day  to  say  that  I  was 
one  of  five  finalists  and  wanted  to 
know  when  I  could  come  to  visit  the 
campus.  I  told  them  I  would.” 

ENROLLMENT 


Aftcrvisit- 
ing  the  cam¬ 
pus,  Hubbard 
said  he  would 
then  have  to 
decidewhcther 
or  not  to  ac¬ 
tively  pursue 
the  position. 

“I  don’t 
want  to  get 
rushed,” 


Hubbard 

president 


Hubbard  said.  "I  think  people  make  a 
lot  of  bad  decisions  because  they  try  to 
move  too  quickly.  If  I  am  interested  at 
all,  then  I  ought  to  look  very  carefully 
and  ask  a  lot  of  hard  questions  to  try  to 
decide  what  is  best  for  me,  my  family 
and  Northwest.” 

Hubbard  compared  Northern  Ari¬ 
zona  University  to  the  University  of 
Northern  Colorado,  which  offered 
him  apresidential  position  nearly  three 
years  ago.  According  to  Hubbard,  the 
decision  was  a  difficult  one  because  of 
the  situations  that  were  developing. 

“There  are  a  few  times  in  an 
institution ’s  history  where  you  can  re¬ 
ally  do  some  damage,  and  I  was  not 
interested  in  hurting  Northwest,” 
Hubbard  said. 

Hubbard  said  there  are  many  fac¬ 
tors  influencing  his  decision  on  the 
current  affair,  and  added  he  is  happy 
here. 

“This  is  a  comfortable  place,” 
Hubbard  said.  “We  like  the  people  and 
the  types  of  students  that  we  get  here. 
We’ve  got  a  good  faculty  and  staff.” 


Performance  by  Bogguss  is 

declared  sellout,  nearly  800 
tickets  sold  first  day  on  sale 


By  STEVEN  WOOLFOLK 

Editor  in  Chief 

i  /  ■  started  out  playing  by  myself . . .  doing  a  lot 
I  of  coffee  houses  and  little  taverns  and  road 
■  side  places.  Places  where  people  let  me 
practice  real  good  -  because  they  mostly  didn’t 
pay  much  attention  to  me,”  Suzy  Bogguss  said. 

People  are  certainly  paying  attention  now. 
Bogguss’  concert  was  one  of  the  fastest  selling 
shows  in  Northwest  history,  selling  nearly  800 
tickets  the  first  day  they  were  on  sale. 

She  turned  in  five  of  her  complementary  seats 
prior  to  show  time  Monday  night,  but  the  seats 
were  scattered  about  Mary  Linn  Performing  Arts 
Center,  and  all  the  seats  C  APs  had  put  on  sale  were 
sold,  prompting  Dave  Gieseke,  Campus  Activity 
Programmers  adviser,  to  proclaim  the  show  a 
sellout. 

As  of  Aug.  24 ,  the  only  seats  remaining  were  on 
the  back  row  of  the  balcony. 

“Many  people  didn’t  buy  tickets  because  they 
didn  ’  t  want  to  sit  back  there,”  Gieseke  said.  ‘  There 
is  no  telling  how  many  tickets  we  could  have  sold 


FRESHMAN  ORIENTATION 


to  this  show  if  we  had  held  it  in  (Lamkin)  Gym:’-’ 
:  Bogguss  has  recently  been  touring  with  fellow 
country  performer  Dwight  Yoakam.  The  two  per¬ 
formers  finished  up  their  stint  together  the  night 
before  Bugguss’  performance  here. 

The  Northwest  show  marked  the  first  in  a  series 
of  performances  by  Bogguss  as  a  headliner,  and 
she  said  the  sell-out  crowd  was  a  positive  sign  for 
her  and  her  band. 

“They  told  us  that  it  was  going  real  well  shortly 
after  it  had  gone  on  sale,”  Bogguss  said.  “Because 
this  was  one  of  the  first  things  we  have  done 
headlining,  it  made  me  feel  really  great  -  encour¬ 
aged:” 

While  she  was  anxious  to  get  her  tour  as  a 
headliner  started,  Bogguss  was  admittedly  a  little 
apprehensive  about  her  new  set. 

“We’ve  been  kind  of  locked  into  this  one 
particular  set  for  the  summer,  and  when  I  gave 
them  (the  band  and  crew)  the  set  list,  it  was  all 
totally  new.  So  itkind  of  confused  them,”  Bogguss 
said. 

In  addition  to  the  new  set,  Bogguss  said  head¬ 
lining  allowed  her  the  opportunity  to  be  more 
“personable”  with  her  audience. 

At  several  points  during  her  show  Bogguss 
took  time  out  from  performing  to  share  anecdotes 
and  explanations  of  songs.  Atone  pointshestopped 


to  explain  one  of  die  many  ballads  in  her  show. 

“I’m  gonna  sing  you  all  a  lesson  in  love,”  she 
said.  “I’ve  learned  a  lot.  Of  all  the  things  I’ve 
learned  about  love  (the  most  important  is)  if  it 
doesn’t  go  right,  make  sure  that  you  have  the  last 
word.” 

Gieseke  said  a  major  contributor  to  the  rapid 
depletion  of  tickets  for  the  show  was  C  APs  “mak¬ 
ing  an  event  out  of  tickets  going  on  sale.” 

The  additional  publicity  resulted  in  ticket  seek¬ 
ers  lining  up  outside  the  Administration  Building 
the  morning  tickets  went  on  sale. 

“We  didn’t  quite  have  people  waiting  out  there 
all  day,  but  there  were  some  people  waiting  for  us 
when  we  got  there  to  open  it  up,”  Gieseke  said. 

He  added  it  wasn’t  only  the  Bogguss  concert 
people  were  looking  for  tickets  to;  other  shows  are 
also  selling  quickly. 

He  said  there  are  less  than  100  tickets  remain¬ 
ing  to  the  Howie  Mandel  show,  and  CAPs  has 
already  sold  approximately  450  tickets  to  come¬ 
dian  Carrot  Top  -  a  mark  they  did  not  reach  last 
year  until  about  two  weeks  prior  to  his  show. 

In  1988,  Bogguss  won  the  Best  New  Country 
Female  Vocalist  award  from  the  Academy  of 
Country  Music.  Southern  Wind  opened  for 
Bogguss,  and  Gieseke  expressed  interest  in  bring¬ 
ing  them  back  for  another  show  next  year . 


New  numbers  out, 
show  1  percent  fall 


By  SCOTT  A.  PUMMELL 

Associate  Editor 

Projected  enrollment  for  the  fall 
semester  accounts  for  a  1  percent  de¬ 
cline  in  students.  However,  the  total 
number  of  credit  hours  has  increased, 
according  to  Michael  Walsh,  director 
of  Enrollment  Management  Admis¬ 
sions. 

“Our  enrollment  is  down  slightly, 
as  far  as  a  head  count  is  concerned,” 
Walsh  said.  ‘Total  credit  hours  seem 
to  have  risen  though,  which  implies 
that  we  have  fewer  part-time  students, 
but  more  full-time  freshmen  and  trans¬ 
fer  students.” 

The  projected  enrollment  is  5,800 
students  for  the  fall  semester,  which  is 
down  slightly  from  5,865  last  year, 
according  to  Bob  Henry,  University 
public  relations  officer.  Henry  also  said 
the  number  of  new  freshmen  is  up  from 
last  year. 

“There  are  about  1,250  incoming 


freshmen,  which  is  up  about  3  percent 
from  last  year,”  Walsh  said.  “Both 
freshmen  and  graduate  student  enroll¬ 
ment  is  up  for  the  first  time  in  three 
years.” 

The  recruitment  of  freshmen  has 
been  made  difficult  this  year  for  most 
area  colleges  and  universities,  accord¬ 
ing  to  Walsh. 

“The  economy  is  such  that  people 
are  thinking  that  one  to  two  years  in  a 
community  college  is  a  viable  alterna¬ 
tive,”  Walsh  said.  “It  saves  them 
money,  and  they  see  that  they  can  still 
transfer  to  a  university  in  one  or  two 
years.” 

Other  area  colleges  have  also  seen 
dramatic  decreases  in  enrollment  this 
year.  Central  Missouri  State 
University’s  enrollment  decreased  10 
percent.  Southwest  Missouri  State 
University  lost  6  percent,  and  both  the 
University  of  Missouri-Columbiaand 
the  University  of  Kansas  dropped  4  to 
5  percent,  according  to  Walsh. 


.  Program  deemed 
success  by  students 

University  conducts  survey  in  attempt 
to  fine  tune  system,  meet  new  needs 


By  LISA  KLINDT 

Associate  Editor 


In  an  effort  to  improve  Northwest’s  Freshman  Orientation, 
surveys  from  students  are  being  compiled  and  reviewed  by  Shari 
Schneider,  coordinator  of  Freshman  Orientation,  transfer  students 
and  non-traditional  students. 

“Every  year  it’s  a  matter  of  fine  tuning  (the  program),’’  Schneider 
said.  “We  try  to  respond  to  meet  the  students’  needs.” 

The  purpose  is  to  get  students  acclimated  with  the  campus  by 
meeting  people  and  locating  the  buildings,  according  to  Schneider. 

“It  helped  me  find  where  places  were  and  prepared  me  for  the 
rest  of  the  year,”  Brian  Smith,  freshman,  said.  “I  got  a  head  start  on 
the  year.” 

Freshman  Jason  Tern  us  agreed  and  added  it  was  beneficial  in 
helping  form  friendships. 

“It  kind  of  helped  you  meet  people,  so  you  weren’t  so  lonely,” 
Temus  said. 

Upperclassmen  agree  the  program  was  significant  in  beginning 
their  career  at  Northwest 

“Being  a  senior  and  looking  back,  it  was  so  nice  because  it  gave 
us  a  chance  to  scope  out  the  campus  and  find  everything  without 
looking  like  a  dork  when  the  upperclassmen  came,”  Heather 
Houseworth,  senior,  said, 


►  ORIENTATION,  page  5 


Minority  organizations  propose  alterations 


GALTAN,  ABC  request  changes 
to  Affirmative  Action  Booklet, 
Regents  to  hear  proposal  next 

By  CHRISTY  SPAGNA 

Assistant  Editor 

With  another  semester  beginning,  Student 
Senate  is  gearing  up  for  a  new  year.  President 
Trent  Skaggs  welcomed  all  returning  membersof 
Senate  as  well  as  new  members.  GALT  AN  and 
ABC  announced  revisions  they  wish  to  see 
changed  in  two  school  handbooks. 

Several  campus  organizations  attended  the 
weekly  meeting  on  Tuesday. 

Once  the  floor  was  open  for  new  business,  a 
representative  from  GALT  AN  read  a  proposal 
from  both  GALTAN  and  ABC.  They  proposed 
changes  towards  the  Affirmative  Action  Plan 
Booklet  and  the  Student  Handbook. 

Patrick  Mahoney,  senior  GALTAN  member, 
read  the  proposed  changes  to  those  in  attendance 
at  the  meeting.  The  basis  for  the  revisions  were 
made  because  GALTAN  and  ABC  believe  cur¬ 
rent  Northwest  policies  do  not  define  discrimina¬ 
tion  and  sexual  harassment  in  enough  detail. 

The  two  groups  presented  the  revisions  to 
Senate  before  they  went  to  the  Board  of  Regents 
hoping  “to  pass  a  resolution  in  support  of  the 
proposal,”  explained  Mahoney, 

Their  revisions  also  included  the  Student  BiU 


of  Rights  sections  of  discrimination  and  sexual 
harassment. 

The  revisions  cover  any  and  all  possible  dis¬ 
crimination  cases  or  sexual  harassmentcases  that 
could  occur.  Denise  Ottinger,  dean  of  students 
and  Student  Senate  sponsor,  noted  Senate  may 
vote  on  this  section  of  the  revisions.  Next  week. 
Senate  will  vote  whether  or  not  to  accept  the 
revisions. 

Senate  has  also  made  a  number  of  revisions  in 
its  method  of  conducting  business.  A  Financial 
Affairs  Committee  has  been  formed  to  monitor 
organizations  that  need  to  “plead  their  case” 
when  they  are  in  need  of  University  funds. 

Treasurer  PJ.  Amys  said  five  to  six  Senate 
members  will  meet  with  an  organization  and 
listen  to  their  reasons  why  the  group  should  be 
allocated  funds. 

According  to  Amys,  the  financial  affairs  com¬ 
mittee  is  not  the  only  “new  kid”  on  the  block,  as 
a  multi-cultural  fund  has  also  been  set  up.  ABC, 
ISO,  CSA  end  HALO  have  been  set  aside  and 
will  receive  their  funding  through  this  concept. 
Pat  Foster  is  in  charge  of  this  multi-cultural  fund. 

“We  felt  Pat  Foster  will  be  able  to  better  watch 
where  students  money  goes,’’  Amys  said. 

With  the  $9,000  left  over  from  last  year, 
Student  Senate  will  start  a  perpetual  scholarship. 
They  will  invest  $6,000,  and  to  pay  for  the 

►  SENATE,  page  7 


JACK  VAUQHT/Northwest  Missourian 


REPRESENTING  GALTAN,  PATRICK  MAHONEY  discusses 
proposed  changes  to  the  student  handbook  and  the  affir¬ 
mative  action  plan  booklet 


Page  2  NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN 


Opinion 


Editorials  express  the  view  of  the  Northwest 
Missourian.  Observations  elsewhere  on  the  page 
represent  independent  viewpoints  of  columnists, 
cartoonists  and  readers. 

Senate  must  be 
ready  for  issues 


I  he  first  Student  Senate  meeting  has 
already  been  held,  and  the  Northwest 
Missourian  would  like  to  present  a  few 
ideas  which  it  would  like  to  see  Senate 
address  this  year. 

One  problem  which  students  face  is  the 
yearly  contract  with  residence  halls.  Why 

not  try  making  . . . . — — „ - 

the  contracts  for  Issues  Student' 

each  semester  Senate  should 

instead  of  locus  on  this  year: 

yearly.  Perhaps  ►  Contracts  with 

this  flexibility  Residence  Halls 

would  increase  ►  Scrutinizing 

the  chances  of  cutting 

...  „  •  of  departments 

students  remain- 

•  rtn  no _ _  ►  Be  accessible 

tng  on  campus.  *  6tuderrts 

E  ucation  is  jjlkcampus  Judiciary 


mg  on  campus.  students 

E  ucation  is  jKCampus Judiciary 

the  reason  ,  ,,  , ,,  "  > 

students  are 

here.  It  seems,  though,  that  the  administra¬ 
tion  has  overlooked  the  basic  need  of 
students  and  is  more  concerned  with 
building  up  its  image. 

Scrutinizing  the  cutting  of  departments 
is  important.  The  reason  students  were 
elected  into  the  Senate  was  based  upon 
their  respective  platform. 

Though  we  are  aware  of  campus 
judiciary,  we  would  also  like  to  see 
Student  Senate  take  an  active  role  in 
helping  to  create  a  more  open  forum. 

Crimes  committed  on  this  campus  are 
not  to  be  shoved  under  the  rug  with  a  slap 
on  the  wrist  to  the  offenders.  A  harsher 
punishment  is  definitely  needed  and 
names  of  the  offenders  should  be 
released.One  of  the  main  goals  of  the 
current  platform  was  accessibility  for  the 
students,  so  Student  Senate  should  help 
them  keep  their  departments  and  graduate 
with  the  students  degree  they  want,  not 
what  the  administration  wants. 

One  last  thought,  be  available  for  the 
students.  Let  them  know  you  are  there  for 
their  needs.  Senate  isn’t  designed  to  be 
one  huge  clique,  which  is  how  many 
people  perceive  it. 

Adopting  town 
to  help  victims 


Yes,  we  are  all  tired  of  hearing  about 
the  suffering  so  many  people  have 
had  to  endure  during  the  “Great  Flood  of 
’93,”  but  the  student  publications  depart¬ 
ment  wants  to  challenge  every  organiza¬ 
tion  on  campus  to  help  those  who  are  in 
need. 

We  challenge  all  organizations  on  cam¬ 
pus  to  follow  our  example.  The  student 
publications  are  sponsoring  a  town  that  was 
virtually  destroyed  by  the  viscous  flood. 

We  decided  to  offer  a  helping  hand  to  the 
city  and  citizens  of  Plattsburg,  Mo..  This  is 
a  small  town  on  the  banks  of  the  Missouri 
River  and  it  not  too  far  from  the  campus.  We 
have  students  from  Plattsburg  attending 
Northwest.  In  fact,  one  of  the  previous  edi¬ 
tors  of  the  yearbook  was  from  Plattsburg. 
So  we  decided  to  help  this  community. 
All  of  the  editors  are  skipping  two  meals 
and  utilizing  that  money  to  benefit  Plattsburg. 
We  are  also  asking  all  of  the  staff  members 
to  skip  one  meal.  Hopefully,  this  money  will 
help  the  citizens  get  back  on  their  feet. 

We,  at  the  Northwest  Missourian  hope 
each  organization  will  accept  our  challenge 
and  raise  as  much  money  to  help  the  flood 
victims  of  1993. 

As  college  students,  we  respect  the  fact 
time  is  not  plentiful.  Donating  precious  time 
might  accomplish  more,  but  we  can  only 
give  what  we  have  to  give. 


msi 


i 


rintf-nur 


/  \  (jcBABe 

<LT  ENTBUtiMM 


MY  TURN 


Officer  s  behavior  unacceptable 


Scott  A. 
Pummell 

Associate  Editor 

- v - 

Conflict 
leads  to 

student's 
anger, 
frustration 
towards  law 
enforcement. 


■  would  like  to  paint  a  picture  -  an 
image  that  should  horrify  anyone, 
no  matter  what  their  stature  or  posi¬ 
tion. 

The  picture  involves  a  man  six  feet 
tall,  weighing  one  hundred  and  eighty 
pounds.  He  wears  his  hair  cropped 
closely  to  his  head  in  much  the  same 
style  as  worn  by  most  militant  Marine 
drill  instructors. 

I  guarantee  it  will,  if  only  a  uniform 
and  a  badge  made  of  not-quite  pre¬ 
cious  metals  are  added  to  my  portrait 
I  know  most  of  you  are  sitting  there 
feeling  secure  in  the  thought  you  will 
never  have  a  problem  with  these  types 
if  you  avoid  committing  crimes. 

Two  weeks  ago  I  felt  much  the 
same  way,  but  no  longer  can  1  entertain 
those  notions  of  false  security  due  to  an 
incident  in  which  I  was  involved. 

I  parked  my  truck  on  a  University 
lot,  with  the  idea  that  I  could  return  to 
it  after  class  with  no  worries. 

Instead,  I  returned  to  find  that  my 
new  truck  had  been  hit.  The  worst  part 
is  the  perpetrator  did  not  have  the  de¬ 
cency  to  wait  or  to  apologize. 

I  drove  to  Campus  Safety  in  my 
freshly  dented  pickup  to  report  the 


crime.  They  asked  if  I  wanted  it  re¬ 
ported  to  Public  Safety.  In  a  moment  of 
anger  and  weakness,  I  told  them  yes, 
makingthemistakeof  wanting  to  exer¬ 
cise  my  right  to  police  protection. 

I  admit,  sometimes  I  am  rather  na¬ 
ive.  Imagine,  I  honestly  thought  the 
police  would  try  to  help  me.  I  never 
would  have  thought  I  would  be  the  one 
threatened  with  citations  and  trips  to 
prison.  I  have  since  learned  expecta¬ 
tions  very  rarely  become  reality. 

A  Public  Safety  patrol  car  made  its 
appearance  on  the  scene.  Inside  was  a 
man  who  acted  as  if  his  childhood  had 
been  a  nightmare. 

After  five  minutes  on  the  scene,  he 
spoke  only  to  demand  my  driver’s 
license.  When  he  didn  ’t  return  it  to  me, 
I  asked  for 'it;  he  threw  it  back  at  me. 

After  he  finished  filling  out  a  few 
sheetsof  paper,  hesaid,  “Give  me  your 
proof  of  insurance.” 

I  explained  I  had  changed  agents 
only  recently  and  hadn’t  received  a 
new  card.  He  then  explained  he  was 
forced  to  give  me  a  citation.  I  finally 
dug  out  the  actual  policy  from  my 
glove  compartment;  being  such  a 
friendly  and  understanding  man,  he 


GUEST  COLUMN 


Time  has  come  for  new  sexual  morality 


Ted  Roedel 

Philosophy/ 
History  Major 
- ▼ - 

Our  society 
needs  new 

set  of  ethics 
for  sexual 
responsibility. 


Look  around  you.  Our  country  is 
having  a  crisis  of  the  soul.  Vio¬ 
lence  of  all  kinds  -  emotional, 
racial,  sexual  and  physical  -  is  spiral¬ 
ling  ever  upward  in  society.  It  is  in¬ 
creasingly  coming  to  wreak  havoc 
on  the  lives  of  our  children. 

We  have  a  responsibility,  as  mem¬ 
bers  of  a  free  society ,  to  face  the  many 
problems  plaguing  our  nation.  If  we 
don’t,  we’ll  only  have  ourselves  to 
thank  for  the  bleak  world  we’ll  be 
living  in  not  long  from  now. 

In  this  space  I  want  to  talk  specifi¬ 
cally  about  one  struggle  we  are  having 
right  now:  the  changes  in  American 
attitudes  toward  sexuality. 

I’m  sure  you  have  heard  moral 
majority  types  bemoaning  the  recent 
decline  in  “responsible’' sexual  behav¬ 
ior.  On  this  subject  I  think  they  are 
right;  where  I  disagree  with  them  is  on 
the  solution  to  this  problem. 

The  key  point  is  not  that  we  have 
strayed  dangerously  far  from  our  basic 


moral  beliefs;  rather  to  a  certain  de¬ 
gree,  those  beliefs  and  values  regard¬ 
ing  sexuality  have  become  obsolete. 

Our  traditional  moral  views  on  this 
subject  originated  long  ago  with  au¬ 
thoritarian  leaders,  who  demanded 
unquestioning  acceptance  of  their  rule. 

Though  we  are  not  in  the  Middle 
Ages  anymore,  we  have  a  culture  in 
which  encrusted,  outmoded  morality 
is  set  against  sexual  mores  gone  adrift 
The  result  is  far  from  having  articu¬ 
lated  a  consistent  set  of  values  on  this 
very  important  issue. 

We  have  a  schizophrenic  culture 
that  entices  us  with  sensual  pleasures 
on  the  one  hand,  and  then  on  the  other, 
criticizes  us  for  our  indulgence. 

Instead  of  developing  a  mature, 
balanced  approach  toward  sexual  ex¬ 
pression,  we  have  become  obsessed 
with  it  thus  leading  to  unregulated, 
irresponsible  behavior  (sexual  abuse 
and  teen  pregnancy,  for  example). 

We  need  a  new,  common-sense 


sexual  morality,  one  more  germane  to 
our  democratic  sensibilities;  a  moral¬ 
ity  based  on  popular  agreement  and 
consensus,  rather  than  blind  obedience. 

Weneedtomovepasttaboosagainst 
pre-marital  sex,  and  more  generally, 
past  the  view  of  the  body  and  human 
sexuality  as  a  somehow  banal  part  of 
our  “lower”  nature. 

I  don’t  have  the  space  here  to  out¬ 
line  the  specifics  of  a  new  sexual  mo¬ 
rality. 

Besides,  I  don’t  believe  this  task  is 
merely  my  responsibility. 

We  live  in  a  democracy.  We’re  all 
participating  in  the  shifts  taking  place 
in  our  culture,  and  we  shouid  all  be 
responsible  for  them. 

As  we  set  out  to  re-evaluate  our 
sexual  mores,  we  should  keep  in  mind 
both  their  power  and  their  importance. 

Human  sexuality  is  a  great  gift.. 
Rather  than  be  abused,  it  should  be 
taken  seriously  and  regarded  with  re¬ 
spect. 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


CAMPUS  VOICE 


accepted  it.  (Please  note  the  sarcasm.) 

Before  theexperience  was  finished, 
he  not  only  threatened  to  ticket  me,  but 
also  to  arrest  me  for  “copping  an  atti¬ 
tude.”  I  ’  ve  never  heard  of  such  a  viola¬ 
tion,  but  he  seemed  rather  confident 

As  I  think  back,  I  am  ecstatic  I  was 
not  the  victim  of  a  more  serious  crime. 
If  I  had  been  burglarized,  the  officer 
would  most  likely  have  executed  me 
on  sight. 

Citizens  are  guaranteed  the  right  to 
police  protection.  This  officer  seemed 
ignorant  of  such  a  right. 

I  have  dealt  with  policemen  in 
Maryville  who  will  do  anything  for  a 
person,  so  I  am  not  aiming  my  criti¬ 
cism  at  the  department  as  a  whole,  but 
it  must  be  remembered  it  only  takes 
one  officer  to  ruin  the  city ’s  perception 
of  the  whole  force. 

When  I  am  a  victim  of  any  crime, 
I  deserve  to  be  treated  with  common 
courtesy  and  politeness.  This  officer's 
attitude  was  a  crime  in  itself. 

No  one  should  be  forced  to  with¬ 
stand  the  verbal  and  mental  harass¬ 
ment  of  such  men  who  will  always  be 
hiding  behind  the  cloak  of  superiority 
surrounding  a  badge. 


What  issues  would 
you  like  to  see 
Student  Senate  address 

in  the  following  year? 

* 

“I  think  that 
Student  Senate 
should  be 
involved  in  the 
encouragement  of 
our  sports  teams. 

I  think  that  they 
should  combine 
with  the  rest  of  the 
students  of  the  school  to  support 
football,  for  example,  or  basketball 
or  volleyball,  because  a  lot  of  times 
the  student  ratio  and  the  student 
participation  or  audience  is  so  low.” 

Jennifer  Gum,  sophomore 

Jason  Tcrnus, 

freshman  1 


“Why  should 
male  students 

have  to  pay  for  a  ’  jfF 

female  hall?  And 

why  should  non-  W  y 

athletes  or  people  \ 

who  do  not  use 

the  gymnasium 

facility  . . .  have  to 

pay  for  the  renovations?  I  think 

maybe  that  should  be  taken  care  of 

with  some  other  funds.” 

Jason  Elam,  junior 

“I  think  that 
we  should  have 
more  lighting  on 
campus,  espe¬ 
cially  over  by  the 
library  and  more 
over  by  Hudson 
and  Perrin, 
because  when 
people  walk  to  the  library  sometimes 
you  can’t  help  but  walk  by  yourself. 

There  have  been  rapes  in  the  past 
year  and  the  year  before.  I  think  they 
need  to  improve  the  lighting  all  over 
just  to  help  reduce  that.  I  also  think 
we  need  more  parking  lots,  espe¬ 
cially  for  off-campus  and  commuters 
because  I  know  I’ve  had  a  tough 
time  trying  to  find  a  parking  place 
when  I  want  to  go  to  the  library  or  go 
to  the  Union.” 

Shelly  Schumacher,  senior 


w  y' 

Voice  Your 
Opinion  ; 


letters  to  the  editor  should 
he  signed  and  Include  the 
author’s  name,  address  and 
phone  number  for  verification 
purposes. 

Th  ftMissovricm  reserves  the 
right  to  refine  and  to  edit  such 
:  article#,  tetters  should  notcoo- 
tain  over  250  words. 

All  letters  must  be  addressed 
to  the  editor. 


LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR 


Winter  commencement  desired 

Dear  Editor, 

lam  writing  in  regards  to  a  possible  December 
commencement.  I  have  been  a  student  at  North¬ 
west  for  the  past  three  years  and  will  complete  the 
requirements  fora  Bachelors  degree  this  Decem¬ 
ber. 

I  feel  strongly  that  Northwest  should  have 
commencement  in  December  for  December 
graduates,  and  I  also  feel  that  I  am  not  alone. 

After  much  thought,  I  still  cannot  understand 
the  rationale  behind  not  having  a  graduation 
ceremony  in  December  since  there  is  one  in  both 
May  and  August. 

I  am  aware  that  this  same  situation  was  being 
considered  last  year  and  don’t  know  why  any¬ 
thing  wasn’t  done  about  it  then. 

I  realize  that  budget  constraints  may  play  an 
important  role  here,  but  I  believe  that  commence¬ 
ment  is  more  important  than  beautifying  our 
campus  with  expensive  flowers  and  landscaping; 
thus  funding  should  be  allocated  accordingly. 

According  tomyresearchfrom  the  Registrar’s 
.  Office,  135  students  graduated  from  Northwest 


in  December  1992  and  246  in  December  1991; 
however,  only  109  graduated  in  Summer  1992 
and  1 12  in  Summer  in  1991 . 

Come  on,  Northwest,  let’s  be  fair!  The  statis¬ 
tics  clearly  show  that  more  people  graduate  in 
December  than  in  August,  yet  a  ceremony  is  held 
in  August.  This  makes  no  sense,  Northwest! 

Students  who  complete  the  requirements  for  a 
degree  certainly  deserve  a  timely  commence¬ 
ment  After  four  years  of  hard  work  at  this  univer¬ 
sity,  I  cannot  believe  you  expect  me  to  wait 
another  six  months  for  a  graduation  ceremony! 

December  graduates  deserve  a  prompt  com¬ 
mencement  ceremony  and  should  not  have  to 
wait  until  May  because  by  then  we  will  have 
already  received  our  diplomas.  What  sense  could 
this  possibly  make? 

I  hope  you  consider  eveiy  thing  I '  ve  presented 
here,  especially  the  hard-core  statistics  from  the 
Registrar's  Office  showing  that  more  people 
graduate  in  December  than  in  August.  Feel  free  to 
verify  my  research  from  the  Registrar’s  Office. 
Please  try  to  understand  my  point  of  view,  and  I 
hopeitchangesyourmind.  Thank  you  very  much. 

Tina  Ebrecht,  senior 


NORTHWEST 


An  Associated  Collegiate  Press  Regional  Pacemaker 
and  All  American  with  five  marks  of  distinction 

The  Northwest  Missourian  is  a  weekly  newspaper  produced  by  students  of  Northwest 
Missouri  State  University,  The  Missourian  covers  Northwest  and  the  issues  that  affect 
the  University.  The  editorial  board  is  solely  responsible  for  its  content. 

EDITOR  IN  CHIEF  -  Steven  Woolfolk 
PERSONNEL  MANAGING  EDITOR  -  Teresa  Hobbs 
ASSIGNMENT  MANAGING  EDITOR  -  Jodi  Puls 


ASSOCIATE  EDITORS 
On-Campus  News  -  Scott  A.  Pummell 
Off-Campus  News  -  Lisa  Klindt 
Sports  -  Kristi  Underwood 
Lifestyles  -  Shane  Whitaker 

PHOTOGRAPHY  EDITOR 
Jack  Vaught 

ASSISTANT  EDITORS 
Jon  Britton 
TonyMiceli 
Hawkeyc  Wilson 

CHIEF  REPORTER 
Roger  Hughleu 


COPY  EDITOR 
Don  Munsdt 

ADVERTISING  DESIGNER 
Scott  Landers 

EDITORIAL  DESIGNERS 
Derrick  Barker 
Christy  Spagna 

ADVERTISING/BUSINESS 
Business  Manager  -  Blase  Smith 
Advertising  Director  -  Greg  Glesinger 

ADVISER 
Laura  Witkner 


I 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


Weekly  Briefing 


NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN  Page  3 


University  News 


5  students  are  studying  in  Czech 

Five  Northwest  students  arc  currently  enrolled  in 
fall  semester  classes  at  the  University  of  Ostrava  in  the 
Czech  Republic,  as  University  of  higher  learning  in 
Southeastern  and  Central  Europe  commence  what  is 
expected  to  be  a  growing  exchange  program  involv¬ 
ing  students  and  faculty. 

The  five  students  involved  in  the  exchange  pro¬ 
gram  arc  Robert  Schneider,  David  Myers,  Andrea 
Bcrthclsen,  Daniel  Vcerkamp  and  Cynthia  Hanson. 

The  students  will  be  in  the  Czech  Republic  until 
early  January,  when  they  return  to  studies  on  the 
Northwest  campus.  Five  to  10  Czech  exchange  stu¬ 
dents  will  also  enroll  at  Northwest  at  that  time. 

The  students  arc  currently  involved  in  an  intensive 
study  of  the  Czech  language  for  the  next  three  weeks 
in  the  mountain  village  of  Guly ,  according  to  Richard 
Frucht,  professor  of  history/humanities. 

Regents  approve  lot  resurfacing 

More  parking  lots  will  receive  concrete  surfaces  in 
1994  as  a  result  of  final  approval  earlier  this  month  by 
the  Board  of  Regents. 

The  Regents  gave  approval  to  the'University’s 
refinancing  of  a  1991  loan  with  Boatman’s  First 
National  Bank  of  Kansas  City  to  provide  funds  to 
pave  the  additional  campus  parking  lots. 

It  is  expected  that  the  refinancing  package,  which 
benefits  from  current  low  interest  rates,  will  result  in 
savings  sufficient  to  pave  parking  lots  to  the  east  and 
west  of  the  Fine  Arts  Building,  south  and  west  of  the 
North/South  Housing  Complex,  and  north  of  the 
Garrett-Strong  Science  Building. 

Post  office  requests  cooperation 

The  Maryville  Post  Office  is  asking  students  living 
off  campus  to  help  them  with  mail  delivery. 

Students  living  off  campus  should  put  their  names 
on  their  individual  mailboxes  to  further  assist  the  post 
office  in  making  deliveries.  Any  old  names  on  mail¬ 
boxes  should  by  taken  off. 


15-year-old  boy  dies 
in  drowning  accident 


Regional  search  involves  200; 

horseback  team  finds  boy  dead 
in  pond  one-half  mile  from  home 

By  JON  BRITTON 

Assistant  Editor 

The  body  of  a  15-year-old  boy  was  found  in 
a  pond  one-half  mile  west  of  his  home  Monday 
followingatwo-daymanhuntcovering  lOsquare 
miles. 

Apparently,  the  boy,  Danny  L.  Jasper  of 
Maryville,  died  of  an  accidental  drowning.  Jas¬ 
per,  who  was  severely  mentally  handicapped, 
was  reported  missing  at  6:45  p.m.  Saturday.  He 
was  last  seen  by  a  neighbor  at  5:45  p.m. 

“He  just  wandered  away  from  his  home,  and 
hehadthementalityofaone-year-old,”Nodaway 
County  Sheriff  Ben  Espey  said.  “He  would  be 
unable  to  find  his  way  back.” 


ABOVE:  MEMBERS  OF  THE  Cameron  Correctional  K-9  unit  watch  as 
the  Missouri  Water  Patrol  searches  the  1 02  River  for  the  body  of  Danny 
Jasper.  Right:  Bloodhounds  from  the  K-9  unit  search  the  area  around 
Lee  Bridge  for  clues  that  would  lead  to  the  whereabouts  of  Jasper. 
Photos  by  Jon  Britton 


State  News 


National  News 


The  Nodaway  County  Sheriff’s  Depart¬ 
ment  and  the  Polk  Township  Fire  and  Rescue 
Unit  coordinated  the  search  that  included  over 
200  men  and  women,  including  150  volun¬ 
teers.  Several  Northwest  students  also  volun¬ 
teered  to  search  for  Jasper. 

The  search  initially  covered  a  four  square- 
mile  area  around  Jasper’s  home  but  was  wid¬ 
ened  to  the  area  east  of  Maryville  to  Mozingo 
Lake. 

Bloodhounds  from  the  Cameron  Correc¬ 
tional  K-9  unit  led  the  team  to  Lee  bridge  on 
the  102  river,  where  the  majority  of  the  search 
was  conducted.  The  bloodhounds  also  fol¬ 
lowed  Jasper’s  trail  to  the  pond  near  his  home 
where  the  body  was  eventually  found  by  a 
horseback  search  party. 

The  Missouri  State  Water  Patrol  searched 
the  pond  twice  Sunday  without  success.  Jas¬ 
per  was  found  by  one  of  the  horseback  rescue 
teams  at  8:30  a.m.  Monday. 

Maryville  Public  Safety,  a  Missouri  State 
Highway  Patrol  plane,  the  Nodaway  County 
RescueSquadand  nearly  50National  Guards¬ 
men  also  assisted  in  the  search. 

The  search  was  the  largest  Espey  could 
remember  in  the  past  nine  years. 

According  to  Espey,  people  were  more 
willing  to  help  given  the  circumstances  sur¬ 
rounding  the  case. 

“The  first  night  we  went  from  7  (p.m.) 
Saturday  night  until  3  o’clock  in  the  morn¬ 
ing,”  Espey  said.  “I  think  it  was  an  excellent 
job  for  the  turnout  that  we  had  and  the  long 
hours  that  everybody  put  in.” 

Maryville  stores  contributed  to  the  Ameri¬ 
can  Red  Cross,  which  provided  food  to  the 
rescue  teams  during  the  search. 


World  News 


Man  gets  four  life  sentences  plus  120  years  Republican  senators  back  Clinton’s  health  goals  Afghanistan  agrees  to  release  five  border  guards 


MARYVILLE  (AP)  -  A  Westboro  man  convicted  of  nine  counts  of 
sodomizing  a  fourth-grade  girl  has  been  sentenced  to  four  life  terms  plus  120 
years  in  prison. 

Robert  D.  Jackson  was  given  four  life  sentences,  three  30-year  terms  and 
two  15-year  terms  on  the  nine  convictions.  Nodaway  County  Circuit  Judge 
John  Andrews  sentenced  Jackson  Friday. 

The  charges  involved  a  girl  who  lived  in  the  home  with  Jackson,  who  had 
a  previous  felony  conviction  for  robbery  in  California. 

,  “I  think,  reading  between  the  lines,  the  judge  wanted  to  try  to  make  sure 
he  (Jackson)  didn’t  have  a  chance  to  ever  do  this  again,”  Nodaway  County 
Prosecuting  Attorney  David  Baird  said  Monday. 

Baird  said  there  was  no  way  of  knowing  whether  or  no  Jackson  ever  would 
be  paroled. 

The  girl  was  abused  from  the  time  she  was  in  the  first  grade  until  she  was 
halfway  through  the  third  grade.  The  incidents  occurred  from  August  1989 
until  February  1992. 

Westboro  is  in  the  extreme  northwest  county  of  Atchinson.  Westboro  is 
approximately  40  miles  from  Maryville. 


WASHINGTON  D.C.  (AP)  -  A  statement  of  principles  on  health  reform  by 
two  dozen  Republican  senators  embraces  some  of  the  same  goals  that  President 
Clinton  has  endorsed. 

Someof  the  goals  they  agree  on  include  universal  coverage,  cost  containment, 
insurance  reforms  and  portability  of  benefits. 

However,  the  Republican  senators  also  come  down  firmly  against  many  of 
Clinton’s  plans  including  requiring  employers  to  finance  a  plan  (which  Clinton 
favors)  and  price  controls. 

“We  are  offering  this  in  a  constructive  posture  to  show  where  there  are  votes 
(among  Republicans)  for  meaningful  health  care  reform,”  said  Sen.  Christopher 
Bond  at  a  news  conference  last  Monday  called  to  draw  attention  to  the 
proclamation. 

Bond,  Sen.  John  H.Chafee,  head  of  the  Senate  Republican  Health  Care  Task 
Force,  and  other  moderate  Republicans  favor  private-sec  torpurchasing  coopera¬ 
tives  for  health  insurance,  to  help  small  businesses  and  individuals  buy  coverage 
at  affordable  rates. 

According  to  Bond,  there  is  a  danger  the  Clinton  administration  would  make 
regulatory  “monsters”  out  of  the  cooperatives. 


DUSHANBE,  Tajikistan  (AP)  -  Tajik  leader  Emomali  Rakhmonov 
returned  from  Afghanistan  Monday  with  five  kidnapped  border  guards. 

The  breakthroughs  followed  weeks  of  recriminations  and  threats  from 
Tajikistan,  Afghanistan  and  Russia  over  violence  along  the  former  Soviet 
border  and  in  the  Central  Asian  nation. 

Dozens  of  civilians  and  soldiers  have  been  killed  in  the  skirmishes  over  the 
past  two  months.  They  are  among  an  estimated  20,000  people  killed  sin$e 
civil  war  erupted  in  Tajikistan  last  year. 

Other  former  Soviet  nations  worried  that  the  fighting  could  spread,  have 
joined  the  Central  Asian  nation  in  guarding  its  border  with  Afghanistan. 

At  the  end  of  a  three-day  trip  to  Afghanistan,  Rakhmonov  brought  back 
four  Russian  soldiers  and  a  Kazakh  border  guard  seized  by  Afghan  mujahedeen 
on  Aug.  10,  Russia’s  Interfax  news  agency  reported. 

Afghan  mujahedeen  have  helped  Tajik  rebels  attack  border  posts  staffed 
by  Tajikistan,  Russia,  Kazakhstan,  Uzbekistan  and  Kyrgyzstan. 

The  rebels  are  fighting  a  coalition  of  ex-Communists  and  regional  war¬ 
lords  who  drove  Islamic  and  self-described  democratic  groups  from  power 
last  fall. 


$y&PIT  STOP  {§§  Continuous  Quality  Improvement: 

- \  K  1  •  .1  T  ••  T->  I 


Jack  Daniels  Country  Cocktails ; 
punch,  tea  and  lemonade  flavors 


Tato  Skins  Potato  Chips 


Breakfast  Burritos 


% 


Missouri  Lottery 


Making  the  Transition  to  Education 

edited  by  Dean  L.  Hubbard 

Includes  27  chapters  by  43  authors  describing  how 
they  are  implementing  quality  at  their  institution  of 
higher  education.  Chapters  include  specific  examples 
of  programs  and  techniques.  Unique  collection  of 
perspectives.  This  book  points  the  way  for  educators 
grappling  with  TQM  issues. 

$22,95,  softcover,  5  1/2  X  8  1/2,  525  pages, 

ISBN  0-9633819-8-9  CIP  93-85009 

AVAILABLE  IN  MARYVILLE  AT  THE 
BEARCAT  BOOKSTORE  OR  THE  BOOK  STOP 


PRESCOTT  PUBLISHING  CO. 

206  li.  Third  Struct  •  I'.O.  Box  713 
Muryvlllo,  MO  64408 


Give  a  special  gift 
for  your  special  friepd! 


Beautiful  Roses 
Floral  Arrangements 
Balloons  for  all  Occasions 


Serving  Northwest  Missouri  for  nearly  60  years 

40)  118  W.  3rd  Maryville 

W  582-2159 


4  CONGRATULATIONS  TO  THE  NEW  MEMBERS  OF  jV 

SIGMA  SIGMA  SIGMA! A 


Ann  Capra 
Anne  Carlson 
Dawn  Dempsey 
Mieke  DeSimone 
Amgela  Eirsman 
Jill  Franklin 
Amy  Frederick 
Sarah  Gagnon 
Tiffany  Gates 
Lindsay  Hagan 
Tiffany  Hardman 
Courtenay  Hill 
Megan  Horn 


4 


Lynette  Humphreys 
Kelly  Kuehner 
Beth  Lewis 
Any  Lindsey 
Keri  Lucas 
Lori  Lyle 

Michelle  Macmahon 
Rebecca  May 
Tiffany  Marr 
Christy  Maslowski 
Jackie  Messner 
Michelle  Mobley 
Margie  Panettiere 
Debbie  Queen 
Heather  Ridder 
Nicole  Riley 


Kathy  Rives 
Jennifer  Schlamp 
Johna-Kaye  Schuster 
Toni  Scimeca 
Julie  Sebanc 
Tracy  Sibbernsen 
Rebecca  Szabo 
Melissa  Thomas 
Brooke  Thrasher 
Danielle  Thorp 
Becky  Vasek 
Kerry  Wells 
Sarah  Young 


Page  4  NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN  CityNews 


Repairs  in  progress  on  city  streets 


1993  improvement  program 

to  cost  Maryville  an  estimated 
$300,000,  involves  30  blocks 

By  ROGER  HUGHLETT 

Chief  Reporter 

Maryville  streets  are  getting  a  face  lift. 

Construction  crews  have,  been  working  on 
streets  for  about  a  month  as  part  of  the  1993  street' 
program,  according  to  Ron  Franz,  director  of 
Maryville  public  works. 

The  program  includes  replacing  water  and 
sewer  lines  as  well  as  refinishing  some  local 
streets. 

“The  program  entails  utility  work,  which  is 
new  water  lines  and  some  new  sewer  lines,”  Franz 
said.  “The  policy  is ,  if  we  are  going  to  rip  the  street 
up,  we  are  going  to  replace  the  utilities  to  make 
sure  we  do  not  have  to  rip  it  up  again.” 

Theprojectis  estimated  tocostaround$300, 000 
as  part  of  a  continuing  five-year  program  involv¬ 
ing  approximately  30  street  blocks  in  Maryville. 

All  the  streets  being  refinished  will  include 
concrete  curbs  and  gutters,  according  to  Franz. 
Driveway  cuts  are  also  being  placed  along  the 
streets. 

“On  our  permanent  street  program  we  put  in 
the  driveway  cuts  with  the  existing  concrete,” 
Franz  said.  “Some  of  the  driveways  are  almost  all 
replaced  because  of  existing  conditions.  Some 
people  on  these  streets  have  elected  to  hire  the 
contractor  to  put  in  new  driveways  for  them.” 

Besides  the  streets,  some  busy  intersections  in 
the  city  will  also  be  worked  on.  Franz  said  this  will 
be  a  major  improvement  to  the  intersections. 

“We  arc  going  to  do  some  intersections,  too,” 
Franz  said.  “We  are  going  to  totally  redo  the 
intersections.  We  are  going  to  make  them  wider 
and  put  20  foot  radius  curbs  on  all  the  intersec¬ 
tions.” 

Repair  work  on  the  intersections  will  begin  in 
the  next  few  weeks,  according  to  Franz.  They 
include  7th  and  Main  Street,  9th  and  Main  Street, 

1 1th  and  Main  Street  and  Park  Street  and  Main 
Street. 

The  completion  of  the  intersections  will  be  the 
final  phase  of  the  1993  street  project. 

“They  are  the  last  of  the  project,”  Franz  said. 
“We  expect  the  roads  to  be  completed  soon  if  we 
do  not  get  rained  out.  The  weather  has  been  a  big 
factor.  We  hope  to  have  them  completed  next 
week.  They  will  start  on  those  after  that.” 

The  five-year  program  was  designed  by  the 


City  Street 
Constructii 


A 

NWMSU 


sr§f0- 


v5e§L 


JENKINS 


STREET 


&ST 


JBR 


q  UPTOWN^ 

■  ■  i  ^ 


■W  THOMPSON 

Hr  — i 


STREET 


BgPII -  - - 

JEST  fcl  COOPER  STREET 


city  council  a  few  years  ago,  according  to  Franz. 
The  city  council  is  already  discussing  plans  for  the 
1994  installment  of  the  plan. 

“In  the  last  council  meeting  they  agreed  to  do 
the  engineering  for  the  1994  street  program,” 
Franz  said.  “They  did  not  commit  to  those  streets 
because  there  is  some  federal  money  the  city 
received.  It  is  around  $210,000.” 

The  federal  funds  will  be  combined  with  the 
city’s  $300,000,  according  to  Franz. 

According  to  Franz,  the  city  is  looking  at  some 
tentative  streets  to  be  worked  on  in  the  following 
year. 

“We  are  looking  at  College  Avenue  from 


Areas  under 
construction 


BRIAN  MEYERS/Contributing  Artist 
College  Road  to  1 6th  S  treet,  7 th  Street  from  Laura 
Street  to  Route  CC  and  Munn  Street  from  the 
existing  Route  D  to  the  present  high  school  en¬ 
trance,”  Franz  said.  “Another  one  would  be  South 
Avenue  out  to  the  new  bypass.” 

The  city  council  is  planning  to  hold  a  public 
hearing  on  the  matter,  according  to  Franz. 

“We  are  putting  that  all  in  the  council’s  lap,” 
Franz  said.  “They  are  thinking  about  a  public 
hearing  in  October  to  get  the  public’s  input  on 
this.” 

The  street  program  did  suffer  some  delays  due 
to  the  summer  rains,  but  Franz  said  the  scheduled 
work  is  coming  along  nicely. 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


Maryville  residents 
begin  clothing  drive 


Today's  Civic  Women 

collecting  winter  articles 
for  area  children  in  need 

By  LISA  KLINDT 

Associate  Editor 

Children  in  Maryville  will  stay  a  little 
warmer  this  winter  thanks  to  the  annual 
Koats  For  Kids  program  sponsored  by 
Today’s  Civic  Women. 

Coats,  gloves  and  hats  are  being  col¬ 
lected  at  Fisher  Cleaners,  311  East  Third, 
until  Sept.  30. 

The  coats  will  be  distributed  in 
Nodaway  County  to  children  of  all  ages. 
Adult  size  coats  are  also  being  accepted. 

“If  the  need  is  there,  we  would  like  to 
try  to  help,”  Jenny  Mullen,  co-chairwoman 
in  charge  of  the  collection,  said. 

The  articles  will  be  hanging  on  a  rack 
at  Eugene  Field  Elementary  School’s  Par¬ 
ent-Teacher  conferences  in  October,  ac¬ 
cording  to  Amy  Driskell,  co-chairwoman 
in  charge  of  the  collection. 

“Nurses  have  said  there  is  a  need  for 
this, especiallyatEugeneField’s, ’’Mullen 
said.  “Most  (articles)  go  back  into  the 
community.” 

Mullen  said  they  will  accept  coats  in 
any  size  or  condition. 

“We’ll  take  about  anything,”  Mullen 
said.  "If  they  need  minor  repairs,  such  as 
missing  buttons,  we  can  fix  them.  We 
can’t  really  fix  zipper  problems,  though.” 

Fisher  Cleaners  is  cleaning  the  coats 
free  of  charge.  They  may  be  dropped  off 
from  7:30  a.m.  until  5:30  p.m.,  Monday 
through  Friday.  The  store  is  open  from 
7:30  a.m.  until  noon  on  Saturday. 

Coats,  hats  and  gloves  may  also  be 
dropped  offal  Mullen  or  Driskell’s  homes 
if  anyone  is  unable  to  get  them  to  Fisher 
Cleaners,  according  to  Mullen. 

“If  someone  has  a  garage  sale  and  they 


have  coats  left,  they  can  get  them  to 
myself  or  Amy  Driskell,"  Mullen  said. 

Anyone  interested  in  receiving  or 
donating  a  coat  or  other  articles  may 
contactMullenat562-2583  or  Driskell 
at  582-7548. 

Area  churches  and  schools  are  also 
involved  in  the  collection  and  distribu¬ 
tion  of  the  articles.. 

This  is  the  third  year  for  the  annual 
drive.  Last  year,  the  committee  col¬ 
lected  935  coats,  hats  and  gloves.  All 
of  the  articles  were  placed  somewhere 
last  year,  ac¬ 
cording  to  ' ;;;  ' '  --  ' 

Mullen.  Drop  Off 

“Last  year  ioca*jons. 

the  extra  coats  lOCailons. 

wenttothcani-  ^ 

rnal  Shelter  to  Flsher  Cleaners : 
be  used  as  bed-  Monday-Frlday 

ding, ’’Mullen.  7:30  a.m.-5:30  p.m. 

Driskell  Sat.  7:30  a.m.-noon 
said  she  re-  ♦ 

ceived  90  ar-  Amy  Driskell 

tides  in  the  582-7548 

first  shipment  ^ 

from  Fisher 

Cleaners.  Jenny  Mullen 

Driskell  said  562-2583 

the  committee  * ' 

is  hoping  the 

drive  will  not  be  affected  by  the  flood. 

“We’re  afraid  that  because  of  the 
flood,  some  people  might  decide  to 
hang  on  to  their  coats  another  year,  so 
we’reafraid  donations  mightbedown,” 
Driskell  said. 

The  22-member  organization  is  in¬ 
volved  in  other  projects  such  as  Toys 
For  Tots  and  face  painting  at  the 
Nodaway  County  Fair.  They  are  also 
involved  in  a  child  car  seat  program 
with  St.  Francis  Hospital.  The  seats  are 
loaned  to  families  in  need. 


a  someone  nas  a  garage  saieanuuiey  lutuicu  iu  lamuics  in  necu. 

For  26  ways  to  help  save  the  ' 
earth  call  1-800-488-8887.  « 

A  Put*c  S«rvic«Ot 

tSX!  Earth  Share w 


CHINESE  FAST  FOOD 


Its  god:  To  be  the  leading 
“authenic  Chinese  food”  by  the 


provider! franchiser  of 
id  of  the  %.  Today  the 


$70  million  restaurant  chain  operates  a  production  facility  in  Columbus,  Ok  that 
produces  over  U  million  meals,  "This  puts  us  10  years  ahead  of  the  competition, * 


Grand  Opening  Wednesday,  Sept.  8 
Ribbon  Cutting  at  4:30  p.m. 
Demonstrations  from  5  to  6  p.m. 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


News 


NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN  Page  5 


Campus  kicks  off  earth  program 


TONY  MICEU/Northwest  Missourian 

TWO  NORTHWEST  ENVIRONMENTAL  Services  employees  separate 
garbage  that  was  taken  directly  from  campus  grounds.  The  amount  of 
incorrectly  disposed  trash  is  too  time  consuming  for  the  workers. 


By  CHERIE  THOMAS 

Missourian  Staff 

University  officials  kicked  off  a 
recycling  program  this  summer  to 
separate  tin ,  aluminum,  plastic,  glass 
and  general  waste  products. 

After  deliberating  with  officials 
from  several  universities  with  recy- 
cling  programs,  Northwest  opted  for 
the  useof  corrugated  cardboard  con¬ 
tainers.  Not  only  are  they  cheaper, 
butthcyarealsoeasiertoreplace.  At 
a  cost  of  about  $5  each,  they  are 
easily  disposed  of  if  tom  or  soiled, 
according  to  Gene  Spear,  Environ¬ 
mental  Services  director. 

Paper  and  aluminum  were  al¬ 
ready  being  recycled,  according  to 
Spear.  The  recycling  of  tin,  glass 
and  plastic  are  new,  though.  Each 
item  has  a  different  colored  card¬ 
board  drop  box  and  each  will  be  kept 
in  alphabetical  order  for  the  visually 
impaired. 

“The  big  thing  is  that  it’s  (recy¬ 
cling)  a  change...and  people  will 
have  to  get  used  to  it,”  Spear  said. 

Bob  Bush,  vice  president  of  the 
CenterforAppliedResearch, pointed 
outthatcustodians  are  working  over¬ 
time  to  sort  materials  thrown  into  the 
wrong  containers. 

“It  is  getting  better,  people  are 
beginning  to  get  used  to  it,  but  some 
(not  from  a  recycling  background) 
are  having  a  little  trouble  forming 
the  recycling  habit,”  he  said. 

Bush  said  once  he  started  recy¬ 


cling  it  became  a  habit  he  carried 
home  with  him.  Now,  his  whole 
family  recycles. 

"We  (the  University)  have  a 
social  and  environmental  commit¬ 
ment  we  have  to  fulfill  if  we  want  to 
be  on  the  cutting  edge...whether 
it’s  an  electronic  campus  or  a  recy¬ 
cling  program,  itneeds  to  be  done,” 
Bush  said. 

Aluminum  has  been  recycled 
by  the  University  for  several  years 
now.  Recycled  aluminum  is  sold, 
with  funds  going  back  into  the  re¬ 
cycling  program.  At  this  point, 
Spear  is  not  sure  how  much  capital 
that  will  entail,  but  will  help  allevi¬ 
ate  some  of  the  costs.  Current  pro¬ 
gram  costs  are  not  yet  available. 

A  current  problem  is  storage. 
Each  type  of  recycled  item  must  be 
stored  separately.  Paper  is  the  big¬ 
gest  problem,  because  it  has  the 
largest  waste  volume.  This  prob¬ 
lem  will  be  solved  when  the  pellet¬ 
izing  plant  goes  on  line  in  two 
weeks,  according  to  Spear. 

Once  paper  is  pelletized,  it  will 
be  mixed  with  wood  chips  and 
burned  to  heattheUniversity.  Spear 
said  the  pellets  and  chips  will  be 
burned  whenever  the  nights  cool 
down,  usually  in  mid-October.  Until 
then,  pellets  will  be  stored. 

'  An  estimated  5,000-6,000  tons 
each  of  paper  pellets  and  wood 
chips  will  be  burned  this  winter, 
also  helping  the  Maryville  City 
Landfill. 


Music  department 
seeks  new  faculty 


Upperclassmen  look  back  on  first  seminar 


►  ORIENTATION,  page  5 

Junior  Matt  Van  Weelden  also  be¬ 
lieves  the  program  is  a  valuable  way  to 
get  to  know  others  before  upperclass¬ 
men  arrive. 

“I  got  to  know  other  guys  who  were 
in  the  same  boat  as  me,”  Van  Weelden 
said.  “You’re  by  yourself  and  every¬ 
one  else  is  too.  It  helps  you  get  to  know 
some  people  before  everyone  else  gets 


Temus  said  the  computer  lessons 
are  essential  to  every  student’s  aca¬ 
demic  career. 

“For  computer  class,  if  you  didn’t 
go  to  that  (session)  it  was  hard  to  do 
anything  on  the  computer,”  Temus 
said. 

Carol  Starkebaum,  freshman,  said 
her  classmates  had  numerous  ques¬ 
tions  about  the  computers. 

...  “They  (the  instructors)  could  get 
down  to  Ihe  point  instead  of  making  us 


wonder, ’’Starkebaum  said.  “They  need 
to  be  a  bit  more  informative.” 

Houseworth  said  she  was  not  in¬ 
structed  on  computer  use  when  she 
was  a  freshman  and  believes  the  com¬ 
puter  sessions  are  invaluable  to  stu¬ 
dents. 

“Nobody  taught  me  how  to  use  the 
computer  when  I  came  here,” 
Houseworth  said. 

“I  know  they  did.that  this  year,  and 
that’sreallybeneficialbecausethecom: 


puter  is  your  lifeline  here,”  she  said. 

Temus,  Smith  arid  Houseworth  all 
believe  the  program  was  worth  the 
$60.  The  money  is  used  to  cover  the 
cost  of  tapes,  films,  printing,  food, 
lodging  and  entertainment,  according 
to  Michael  Walsh,  director  of  Enroll¬ 
ment  Management  (admissions). 

Walsh  believes  the  program  pro¬ 
vides  a  beneficial  transition  for  fresh¬ 
men,  transfer  students  and  non-tradi- 
tional  students.  ........... 


Bobo  takes  sabbatical, 

band  director  replaces 
absent  fine  arts  chair 

By  CODY  WALKER 

Missourian  Staff 

Temporary  course  load  transitions 
in  the  Department  of  Music  staff  have 
occurred  as  a  result  of  the  sabbatical 
leave  of  chairman  Richard  Bobo. 

Bobo  announced  hisdeparture  from 
the  position  in  early  February,  and  it 
was  officially  effective  July  1. 

A  national  search  was  conducted 
by  the  University,  which  was  unsuc¬ 
cessful  in  finding  a  suitable  replace¬ 
ment. 

“In  July,  the  University  opened  the 
position  to  applicants  within  the  Uni¬ 
versity  who  were  interested  in  being 
Interim  Music  Department  Chair,” 
Alfred  Sergei,  director  of  bands,  said. 

In  orderto  fill  the  various  positions, 
theUniversityrehiredPeggy  Edwards, 
who  had  retired,  in  addition  to  hiring 
Jana  Bobo  for  the  fall  term  and  Eric 
Johnson  as  part  time  adjunct  faculty. 

As  Sergei  acquired  a  large  number 
of  new  responsibilities,  his  original 
course  load  was  reduced. 

Sergei  had  been  in  charge  of  con¬ 
ducting  the  marching  band,  select  con¬ 
cert  band,  wind  symphony  and  the 
symphonic  band.  Sergei’s  teaching 
load  was  reduced,  and  he  relinquished 
his  duties  as  conductor  of  both  the 
symphonic  and  marching  band. 

John  Entzi,  instructor  of  trumpet, 
horn  and  jazz  studies,  has  become  the 
assistant  director  of  marching  band, 
while  continuing  to  instruct  the  trum¬ 
pet  and  jazz  studies. 

Johnson  became  the  teacher  of  ap¬ 
plied  horn  and  the  brass  ensembleclass. 

Bobo  will  teach  five  sections  of 
classical  piano-  which  had  been  taught 
by  Richard  Bobo  -  and  two  sections  of 
the  components  of  art  and  music  in  the 
elementary  school,  which  had  been 
taught  by  Edwards. 

Sergei  became  the directorof  bands 
in  1981  with  only  26  students  enrolled, 
but  the  number  of  students  grew  to  65 
by  theend  of.the  year.  After  12  years 


of  recruiting 
students,  the 
enrollment  has 
increased  to 
160  students. 

Sergei  ex¬ 
plained  his  in¬ 
terest  in  the  po¬ 
sition  despite 
his  past  ties  to  Sergei 
the  marching  Music  department 
band.  chairman 

“I’m  pursu¬ 
ing  a  doctorate  in  Higher  Education 
Administration,  and  the  opportunity 
for  me  to  apply  and  use  what  I  learned 
in  the  classes  was  great,”  Sergei  said. 

“It  was  not  an  easy  decision,  after 
having  done  the  job  with  the  marching 
band  for  12  years,”  Sergei  said.  “It 
wasn’t  easy  to  say  goodbye  to  the 
students  - 1  couldn’t  just  walk  away.” 

Entzi  explained  that  he  is  not  a 
newcomer  to  the  marching  band  area 
of  music. 

“I  was  involved  with  1 1  years  in 
high  schooland  graduate  school,  which 
amounted  to  about  140  events,”  Entzi 
said. 

The  change  between  marchingband 
directors  is  not  something  that  most 
students  have  found  difficult  to  deal 
with,  since  Entzi  is  a  familiar  face, 
according  to  Senior  Field  Assistant 
Brenda  Ashley. 

“Rightnow,  everyone  is  just  getting 
used  to  each  other,”  Ashley  said.  “I 
really  think  it’s  a  positive  thing.  You 
really  appreciate  the  people  you’re 
working  with.” 

“Since  I  know  of  Mr.  Entzi,  I  know 
his  attitude  toward  marching  band;  we 
have  the  same  ideas,”  Sergei  said.  “We 
want  the  students  to  be  involved  and  to 
enjoy  themselves.” 

“Mr.  Sergei  and  I  think  alike;  we’re 
on  the  same  level,”  Entzi  said. 

Assisting  Entzi  isCarol  Cronin  from 
Boone,  NC.  Cronin  helps  with  vocals, 
band  and  in  accompaniments. 

“There  was  great  enthusiasm  from 
the  students  and  faculty,”  Sergei  said. 
“We  want  to  improve  some  things  such 
as  building  use  policies  and  time  effec¬ 
tiveness.”  • 


Associate  member 
interviews  for  Student 
Senate  will  be  held  Sept,  8, 
Applications  may  be 
obtained  in  the  Student 
Senate  office  or  call 562- 
1218  for  information. 


Northwest  Bookstore 


Recycled  Academic 
DESK  PAD 

Regularly  $1 1.50 

NOW  $4.99 


BACK  TO  CLASS 


Uni-Blazer 
VIEW  HILITER 


Academic 

PLANNER 

Regularly  $8.95 

NOW  $4.99 


Two  Pocket  ^ 
FOLDERS 


Regularly  $2.45 

NOW  990 


NOW  $23.99 


“s 

in  Ihe  usl 


Take  a  Shot  at  the 

FUJI  PHOTO  CONTES 

and  a  Chance  to  vvm  a 

$1500  Scholarship. 


Feeling  a  little  ^ 

off  balance?  f)  jffc. 

Let  the  experts  at  the  Maryville  Chiropractic 
Clinic  get  you  back  on  track! 

Call  582-85 1 1  for  an  appointment  now.  . 


Maryville  Chiropractic  Clinic 

Dr.  Greg  M.  Thomas 
Dr.  Bette  L.  Spangenberg 
Building  your  foundation  for 
whole  family  wellness, 

1713  S.  Main  •  Maryville,  Mo. 
across  from  Food-4-Less 


Russell 
100%  Cotton 
TEE  SHIRT 

Regularly 

$14.98  J 

$9.99/5 


,  PRO-WEAVE 
1  SWEATSHIRT 

Regularly  $41.98  i 

\\  NOW  $29.99 


Oversized 

BACKPACK 

Regularly  $36.98 

NOW  $29.99 


Pag*  6  NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN 


News 


KXCV  expands  broadcasting  area 


University  radio  station 

increases  service  to 
61,000  new  listeners 

By  JODI  PULS 

Managing  Editor 

More  than61, 000  rcsidcntsof  north¬ 
ern  Missouri  arc  now  able  to  receive 
public  radio  programming  since  KXCV 
expanded  its  services  to  a  station  in 
Chillicothc,  Mo. 

“Essentially,  what  we  have  in 
Chillicothe  is  satellite  repeater,  and 
that  means  that  our  signal  here  in 
Maryville  that  we  send  out  is  picked  up 
and  reprocessed  on  a  different  fre¬ 
quency  and  then  we  transmit  it  into  the 
new  coverage  area,”  Sharon  Bonnett, 
station  manager,  said. 

Even  the  call  letters  reflect  the 
station’s  tie  to  the  University. 

“We  were  able  to  select  our  call 
letters  -  you  must  not  have  the  same 


call  letters  as  any  other  radio  or  any 
other  TV  station  in  the  nation  -  and  we 
chose  KRNW  for  Radio  Northwest,” 
Bonnett  said. 

According  to  Bonnett,  the  Univer¬ 
sity  opened  the  station  to  provide  those 
residents  who  could  not  receive  it  with 
public  radio  programming. 

“It  was  an  outreach  endeavor  on  the 
part  of  the  University  to  offer  public 
radio  programming  to  people  whohere 
to  for  could  notrcceive  the  public  radio 
signal,”  she  said. 

There  are  two  reasons  why 
Chillicothe  was  selected  to  be  the  loca¬ 
tion  of  KRNW,  according  to  Bonnett 

“Chillicothe  is  a  very  progressive 
community  -  they  seem  to  be  very 
excited  about  having  a  public  radio 
station  there  -  and  it  was  strategically 
located,”  she  said.  “Because  of  the  area 
we  wished  to  cover,  Chillicothe  was  a 
wise  choice.” 

Before  KRNW  began  operating  on 


Monday,  KXCV  was  transmitted  from 
Omaha  to  Kansas  City  to  close  to  Dcs 
Moines,  but  there  was  an  area  in  the 
eastern  section  of  the  transmitting  zone 
that  was  what  Bonnett  called  a  “fringe 
area." 

"Sometimes  they  can  be  reached, 
and  sometimes  they  can’t,”  she  said. 

The  new  station  will  serve  that  area. 

“By  placing  the  satellite  repeater  in 
Chillicothe,  we’reable  to  assure  people 
that  they  can  receive  our  signal  on 
either90.5,  which  is  Maryville,  or  88.9, 
which  is  Chillicothe,”  Bonnett  said. 

The  type  of  programming  provided 
by  KRNW  is  unique,  according  to 
Bonnett 

“Our  programming  ^classical,  jazz 
and  news  and  information,  and  essen¬ 
tially,  it  is  programming  that  you  can  ’  t 
receive  elsewhere  on  the  radio  dial,” 
she  said. 

Not  only  does  the  new  station  pro¬ 
vide  something  to  the  residents  of  the 


:  lO^A 

•  <K*fcV&5FM) 


KAfTTC 

public  radio  \ 
listening  area  yKl 


SHIeotha 

’88.9fM) 


M0. 

t. 

iiiiilli! 


area,  it  allows  students  work  to  be 
heard  over  a  larger  area,  according  to 
Bonnett 

“It  essentially  enables  what  they  do 
to  be  heard  from  Dcs  Moines  to  Kansas 
City  and  Omaha  to  Kirksville,”  she 
said.  “The  fact  that  they  worked  for  X 
number  of  years  for  a  public  radio 
station  with  that  strong  of  signal  should 
speak  well  for  the  kind  of  responsibil¬ 
ity  they  are  able  to  assume.” 


Freshmen  scheduling  placed  on  pilot  program 


By  CARRIE  RONSICK 

Missourian  Staff 

A  team  of  Northwest  faculty  has  designed  a 
specific  class  schedule  for  freshmen  to  take  during 
their  first  four  semesters  at  Northwest,  according  to 
a  letter  addressed  to  freshmen  from  acting  Vice 
President  of  Academic  Affairs,  Pat  VanDyke. 

It  is  a  four-semester  plan  in  which  the  120  ran¬ 
domly  picked  students  will  finish  their  general  edu¬ 


cation  core  requirements  in  two  years. 

“Asateacher.you’reconstandywantingtochange 
how  you  teach  courses,  hopefully  to  improve  things,” 
said  Gae  Irby,  a  member  of  the  pilot  planning  com¬ 
mittee.  “To  me,  this  was  a  natural  extension  of  what 
all  teachers  want  to  do,  look  at  what  we’re  doing  and 
see  if  we  could  do  it  better  than  we’ve  been  doing.” 

A  sequence  of  courses  for  the  fall  semester  have, 
been  planned  for  120  randomly  picked  freshmen. 
These  courses  were  set  aside  so  those  participating  in 


the  pilot  would  have  their  schedules  assured  and 
would  move  systematically  through  the  course  work 
and  activities.  Although  these  courses  have  been  set 
aside  for  those  in  the  pilot,  all  course  work  will  be 
equivalent  and  comparable  to  the  course  work  in  the 
standard  curriculum. 

The  pilot  planning  committee  is  attempting  to 
look  at  the  general  education  core  requirements  and 
determine  if  there  is  a  way  they  can  deliver  the  same 
services  in  a  better  way. 


ead  the  Northwest  Missourian 


Soda 


Northwest  jersey 8,  Sweats  and  T-shirts  | 

LARGEST  GREEK  SHOP 
IN  NORTHWEST  MISSOURI 

*  pledge  shirts  •  hats 

1  T-shirts;  sweatshirts  *  custom  embroidery 
•umbrellas  •boxers 

*  key  tags  •  screen  printing 

%  DOZENS  OF  NEW  STYLES  TO  CHOOSE  FROM* 

202  East  Third  *  Maryville,.  Mo,  *  on  the  tow rt  square  , 
Mon  -  Fri  10-6  *  Sat  11-5  *582-8889 


M 


NORTHWEST 


rmmmm 


FRATS!  SORORITIES! 
STUDENT  GROUPS! 


Raise  as  Much  as  You 
Wani  In  One  Weekl 

$100... $600... $1500! 
Market  Applications  forthe  hot¬ 
test  credit  card  ever  -  NEW 
GM  MASTERCARD.  Users 
earn  BIG  DISCOUNTS  on  GM 
CARSI  Qualify  for  FREET-SHtRT 
&  '94  GMC  JIMMY. 

Call  1  -800-932-0528,  ext  65. 


NEED  EXTRA  CASH?  A  grow¬ 
ing  computer  distributor  seeks 
student  sales  representative. 
Must  have  good  working  knowl¬ 
edge  of  computers  and  soft¬ 
ware,  and  a  sales  personality. 
Excellent  opportunity  for  right 
person!  Send  resume  to  Simply 
Software  Inc.,  868  S.  Brunswick, 
Suite  201,  Marshall  Mo.  65340. 


FRATS!  SORORITIES! 
STUDENT  GROUPS! 


Raise  as  Much  as You 
Want  In  One  Week! 
$100... $600... $1500! 

Market  Application!  for  VISA, 
MASTERCARD,  MCI, 
AMOCO,  etc.  Call  for  your 
FREE  T-SHIRT  and  to  qualify 
for  FREE  TRIP  to  MTV 
SPRING  BREAK  '94. 
Pali  1-800-950-1039,  ext  75. 


New  Mexican  Pizza 

^  at  our 

New  Location  on  the  corner  of 
South  Main  &  South  Ave. 

TOCO  JOHN'S® 

*  V-d  ^  More  Than  You  Imagined 

*  ^  Comer  of  South  Main  ft  South  Ave  •  Maryville,  Mo. 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


Thursday,  Sept.  2 

3  p.m.  Advanced  E-mail  short  course  will  be  held  in  the  electronic  lecture 
room. 

3:30  p.m.  IFC  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Northwest  Room. 

4  p.m.  Flag  football  captains’  meeting  will  be  held  in  Martindalc  Gym. 
4  p.m.  Campus  Punt,  Pass  and  Kick  will  be  held  at  the  Intramural  Fields. 
5:30  p.m.  Panhellcnic  Council  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Governor’s 
Room. 

7  p.m.  Football  Kickoff  Rally  will  be  held  at  the  Courthouse  Square. 
7:30  p.m.  Bearcat  Sweethearts  meeting  will  be  held  in  243  Colden  Hall. 

8  p.m.  Chi  Phi  Chi  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Regents  Room. 

9  p.m.  Drive-in  movie:  “Groundhog  Day,”  will  be  showing  at  the 
Tundra. 

Flag  football  entries  due  in  the  Campus  office. 

Friday,  Sept.  3 

5p.m.ChineseStudentAssociationmeetingwillbeheldinlheGovemor’s 

Room. 

Saturday,  Sept.  4 

7  p.m.  Football  game  at  Mankato  State  University. 

Men ’s  and  women’s  cross  country  teams  will  be  at  the  Simpson  Invitation. 

Sunday,  Sept.  5 

10:30  a.m.  Catholic  Mass  will  be  held  in  the  University  Club  North. 

Monday,  Sept.  6 

Labor  Day-no  classes  will  be  held. 

Tuesday,  Sept.  7 

4  p.m.  ROTC  Rangers  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Cadet  Lounge. 

4  p.m.  Alpha  Sigma  Alpha  meeting  will  be  held  in  334  Colden  Hall. 

4  p.m.  Sigma  Sigma  Sigma  meeting  will  be  held  in  209  Administration 
building. 

4:30  p.m.  Delta  Zeta  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Governor’s  Room. 
4:30  p.m.  Homecoming  Committee  meeting  will  be  held  in  228  Colden 
Hall. 

5  p.m.  Amnesty  International  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Northwest 
Room. 

5:30  p.m.  Circle  K  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Stockman  Room. 

6  p.m.  International  Students  Organization  meeting  will  be  held  in  the 
Regents  Room. 

7  p.m.  Bible  Study  will  be  held  at  the  Christian  Campus. 

7  p.m.  Student  Senate  meeting  will  be  held  at  the  University  Club. 
Northwest  volleyball  at  Benedictine  College. 

Wednesday,  Sept.  8 

10  a.m.  Board  of  Regents  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  University  Club 
Room. 

1:50  p.m.  Graduate  student  orientation  will  be  held  at  the  Conference 
Center. 

3:30  p.m.  Graduate  student  council  meeting  will  be  held  at  the  Confer¬ 
ence  Center. 

4  p.m.  Beta  Sigma  Phi  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Regents  room. 

4  p.m.  Omega  Chi  meeting  will  be  held  in  the  Regents  room. 

4:30  p.m.  Made  Pi  grand  opening  will  be  held  at  the  World  of  Cuisine. 
5:30  p.m .  Mark  Pi  noodle  making  demonstration  will  be  held  at  the  World 
of  Cuisine. 

6  p.m.  Mark  Pi  noodle  making  demonstration  will  be  held  at  the  World 
of  Cuisine. 

7  p.m.  Rodeo  Club  meeting  will  be  held  in  209  Administration  building. 


,  Sfe- 


VVN/  *  *  »  — ■ 


ifS 


Dunkin'  Donuts'81  delivers 
once  again.  So  now  you 
can  get  an  assortment  of 
fresh,  delicious  Dunkin' 
Donuts®  without  going  to 
great  lengths.  In  fact,  all 
you  have  to  do  is  visit  the 

“  DUNKIN' 
DONUTS’ 

Its  worth  the  trip. 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


News 


NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN  Page  7 


Forensic  students  compete 


Top  Hat 


Debate  team  prepares, 

plans  for  first  tourney; 
Rude  seems  optomistic 

By  SUE  MOHAMED 

_ Missourian  Staff _ 

-According  to  one  student,  being 
involved  in  forensics  can  be  hard  work, 
but  it  also  has  its  rewards. 

“Forensic  involves  a  lot  of  research, 
and  it  has  improved  my  public  speak¬ 
ing  skills,”  Mary  Moore,  a  sophomore 
who  participated  in  10  tournaments 
last  year,  said. 

“Everyone  should  get  involved.  It 
helps  polish  your  skills  and  extend 
your  knowledge  about  research  top¬ 
ics,”  Alphonso  Atkins,  senior,  said. 

Forensics  is  a  spcech/drama  and 
debate  team  that  competes  with  other 
colleges  and  universities  around  the 
United  States  throughout  the  year,  ac¬ 
cording  to  John  Rude,  director  of  fo- 


“Northwest  Speech  Communica¬ 
tion  department  has  a  forensic  team 
that  has  been  going  on  for  a  long 
time,”  Rude  said.  “It  trains  students 
for  competitive  speech  tournaments." 

“About  seven  tournaments  are  ten¬ 
tatively  scheduled  for  this  semester, 
starting  October  1993,”  Rude  said. 
“Students  get  the  opportunity  to  travel 
as  a  group,  at  least  on  every  other 
weekend." 

Other  perks  include  scholarships, 
paid  expenses  for  tournaments,  trans¬ 
portation  and  room  and  board,  all  spon¬ 
sored  by  the  University. 

“The  forensic  team  isopen  toevery 
student  with  any  majors  enrolled  with 
the  University  in  forensics,  with  a 
minimum  requirement  of  a  2.0  GPA,” 
KathieLeeper,  department  chair,  said. 

The  tournament  is  divided  into  two 
categories:  oratorical  speech  and  in¬ 
terpretation  of  literature,  including  both 
poetry  and  prose,  presentational  mate¬ 
rials  of  after  dinner  speaking,  im¬ 


promptu  special  and  extemporaneous 
speaking. 

“The  first  tournament  will  be  held 
in  Nebraska,”  Rude  said. 

“Forensic  squad  puts  into  factors 
the  principle  of  presentational  com¬ 
munication, "RobertBohlken.whoisa  . 
member  of  the  scholarship  committee, 
said.  “Incoming  freshmen  will  receive 
$250  if  they  qualify,  and  they  are  non¬ 
renewable.  Primarily,  they  have  to 
prove  themselves  in  an  event  just  like 
an  athlete.” 

“One  thing  nice  about  forensics  is 
you  compete  against  yourself,  and  it  is 
a  personal  thing,”  Rude  said.  “When 
people  look  at  your  resume  they  know 
you  are  a  top  person  and  will  be  a  better 
person  to  hire,”  he  said. 

Students  interested  in  forensics 
should  not  feel  intimidated.  The  three 
coaches  in  the  forensic  team  to  be 
sought  are  Rude,  Jeff  Pryzbylo,  assis¬ 
tant  forensic  coach,  and  Nathan  Pruitt, 
graduate  assistant 


Senate  creates  new  perpetual  scholarship 


►  SENATE  from  page  1 

scholarship  they  will  draw  off  the  in¬ 
terest.  Skaggs  said  guidelines  will  be 
written  to  explain  the  scholarship  in 
detail. 

The  other  $2,000  will  help  fund  a 
trip  to  Washington,  D.C.,  for  a  confer¬ 
ence  Senate  was  invited  to  attend. 

Vice  President  A1  Gore,  two  sena¬ 
tors  and  other  national  leaders  will 


make  special  appearances  at  the  con¬ 
ference.  The  four  student  senators  who 
go  will  attend  several  leadership  meet¬ 
ings. 

Freshmen  elections  wereheldTues- 
day,  and  at  the  meeting  Skaggs  swore 
in  the  newly  elected  representatives 
along  with  other  new  members  of  Stu¬ 
dent  Senate. 

Freshmen  Thomas  Hiatt,  Cori 
Elifrits,  Jill  Wood  and  Denise  Way 


were  the  new  freshmen  sworn  in. 

Skaggs  announced  a  slight  discrep¬ 
ancy  with  the  elections.  It  seems  one  of 
the  candidates  left  a  poster  up  after  the 
expired  time. 

In  most  cases,  Skaggs  explained 
Senate  would  take  away  5  percent  of 
the  vote,  but  in  this  case  there  was  not 
enough  to  sway  the  decision. 

Senate  is  also  planning  a  fall  leader¬ 
ship  retreat  for  Sept.  17-19. 


JON  BRITTON/Northwest  Missourian 

RICHARD  FULTON,  LEFT,  wears  the  fuzzy  hat  and  talks  with  Richard  Frucht,  right,  at  University 
President  Dean  Hubbard’s  open  house  on  Tuesday.  Funny  hats  were  required  to  attend  this  event. 


V 


IT'S  BACK 

Limited  Time  Offer 

SINGLE  SESSIONS  s2°° 

•Beds  With  Face  Tanners 
•New  WoHe  Bdbe  *New  Acrylics 


-  Tanning  Salon - 


116  E.  2nd  Maryville.  Mo  *  Mon.-Fri.  11  a.m.-7  p.m.  Sat.  10  a.m.-2  p.m.*562-3330 


AUDIO  IMAGE 

-  Car  Audio  At  Its  Finest — 

.  .»• 

•  Professional  Installation 

•  Finance  Available 

•  JVC,  Clarion,  US  Amps,  JBL 


Look  for  Student  Discount 
in  the  1 — 

Booklet! 


CZXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX2 


p/f 

PALMS 


Monday  Night 
FootbalL.FREE  FOOD 

Thursday  Night  is 
Sneak-A-Leak 


r-,VAnOe'-'rV- 


Maryville,  MO 


>  Come  in  and  check  out  g 
our  weekly  specials.  A 

422  N.  Buchanan  •  562-9965  H 


816-582-2161 


106  S.  Main 


Keystone  12  packs 

$4.99 


Rt  nrwmNF  ■ 

svcimur  •/rTN^k'Wawi 


Milwaukee's  Best  and 
Milwaukee's  Best  Light 
24  packs 
$6.75 


Cold  kegs  in  stock  plus  a 
wide  variety  of  beer,  liquor, 
soda,  drink  mixes  and  more. 

213  W.  5th  •  Maryville,  Mo.  •  next  to  the  Outback  •  582-4434 
Mon  •  Sat  open  until  Is30  ajn.  •  Sun  open  until  Midnight 


■  ■ 

ASA  4  Vol 

on 

■■ 

■ 

leyball  Tournament 

V/ll 

4 

$20  per  team. 

At  Beal  Park 

September  12 

Application  deadline: 
September  1 1  at  5  p.m. 

Register  with  any  Alpha. 

Divisions 

•  Women 

Flood  Relief 

•  Men 

•  Co-rec 

Food  and  Prizes  available! 

Sponsored  by  Alpha  Sigma  Alpha  and  KDLX! 

CONGRATULATIONS  TO  THE  NEW  MEMBERS  OF 


Gulsen  Akalan 
Gecky  Gelsiger 
Liz  Beach 
Carrie  Belcher 
Lisa  Burnett 
Jennifer  Callahan 
Courtney  Churchill 
Dana  Crouch 
Jeena  DeMay  ^ 

Amy  Duden 

Tara  Duncan  l 

'  < 

Jennifer  Eck  ! 

Kayla  Eychaner  | 

Jenni  Gaddi  © 


Maria  Groumoutis  Jennifer  Lucas 
Becky  Hassig  Amy  Mandarich 

Susan  Houston  Kristi  Martain 

Carrie  Hunter  Melissa  Mayer 

Stacia  Knipp  Kimberly  McKenzie 

Trina  Liverman  Andrea  Merino 

Amy  Lovell ^ - \  Jill  Newland 

oorayl)  All 

Alpha 

Sigma 


Alp 


Angela  Nolan 
Angie  Orr 
Theresa  Renner 
Francie  Romano 
Julie  Ruddy 
Rachelle  Schiemer 
Emily  Sehrt 
Jill  Smolik 
Jill  Stansbury 
Lynn  Triefenthaler 
Jessica  Velasquez 
Kaylie  White 
Molly  Wiess 
Amanda  Wright 


Page  8  NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


4 ; 4-1 


LIVE!  At  the  Mary  Linn  Performing  Arts  Center 

Saturday,  September  II 

7:30  p.m. 


BROUGHT  TO  YOU  BY: 

Campus  Activity  Programmers  ■ 
"Your  Entertainment  Ticket” 
&  The  Northwest  Missourian 


MISSOURI  STATE  UNIVERSITY 


TICKETS  AVAILABLE  AT: 

Student  Services  Center,  8  a.m.-4:30  p.m.,  Monday  -  Friday 
Mary  Linn  Box  Office,  6-8  p.m.,  Monday  -  Thursday 
Or  call  562-1212  daytime,  562-1320  evenings 

$10  Northwest  I.D.,  Children  12  &  under 
$12  Other  students,  Senior  citizens 
$15  Adults 


NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


OFF  THE  BENCH 


▼ 

Monday  night 
football  is  back  - 
and  just  in  time 


Okaysports  fans,  the  time 
has  come  again  for  the 
beginning  of  a  new 
sports  season.  No  longer  do 
football  addicts  have  to  endure 
the  reruns  of  Northern  Expo¬ 
sure.  Monday  NightFootball  is 
back. 

Just  imagine  pizza,  beer  and 
1  the  Chiefs  (or  a  team  of  your  Kffs 

choice), kickingbackwithyour  Underwood 
friends  and  relaxing  to  the  Associate  Editor 

week ’s  hottest  NFL  match  up.  - - 

You  may  opt  for  a  Monday 
night  football  celebration  here  in  Maryville.  The 
Outback  has  quarter  draws,  and  even  if  football  is  not 
your  cup  of  tea,  you  could  still  cash  in  on  the  beer 
bargain. 

4  But  the  madness  does  not  end  there.  Forget  not  the 
Sunday  night  George  Michael’s  Sports  Machine, 
complete  with  buttons  and  all,  the  football  plays  of 
the  week  and  issues  upon  issues  of  Sports  Illustrated 
with  the  latest  on  college  and  pro  ball  coverage.  I 
know  it  is  not  the  swimsuit  issue,  but  you  read  SI  for 
the  articles,  right? 

The  thought  of  the  Chiefs  proceeding  to  the 
playoffs  increases  the  anticipation.  Hopefully,  Mon- 
4  tana  will  be  able  to  live  up  to  the  golden  image  of  the 
savior  that  Kansas  City  fans  are  counting  on.  If  not, 
his  golden  throne  may  quickly  tarnish. 

Visit  Minneapolis  on  the  way 

With  all  this  also  comes  the  first  Bearcat  football 
and  volleyball  game,  as  well  as  a  cross  country  meet. 

I  will  admit  it.  I  am  going  to  the  ’Cats  football 
game  against  Mankato  State  as  much  to  go  to  the 
4  Mall  of  America  in  Minneapolis  as  anything ,  but  that 
is  just  the  point. 

The  Minneapolis  metropolitan  area  offers  count¬ 
less  attractions.  The  Mall  of  America  houses  an 
amusement  park,  almost  every  store  imaginable, 
night  clubs  and  restaurants. 

The  Hubert  H.  Humphrey  Metrodome,  home  of 
the  Twins,  Vikings  and  Gophers,  is  right  next  door. 
*  The  state  of  Minnesota  is  known  for  it  lakes  and 
scenery. 

For  non-diehard  sports  fans,  away  games  provide 
an  excellent  opportunity  to  getaway  from  Maryville 
for  the  weekend,  or  for  just  an  evening,  to  see  the 
beautiful  heartland  and  support  your  team. 

That  is  what  college  weekends  are  all  about: 
friends,  school  sports  and  doing  the  things  you 
“  always  wanted  to  do,  but  never  could,  while  living  at 
home. 

I  think  I  know  what  you  might  be  thinking  at  this 
point.  It  sounds  great,  but  what  college  student  has 
the  money  to  just  run  up  to  Minnesota  for  the 
weekend? 

With  a  little  planning,  penny  pinching  and  some 
creative  thinking,  money  does  not  have  to  be  an 
4  obstacle. 

Most  college  level  games  are  free,  or  of  minimal 
charge  to  students  with  IDs.  Car  pooling  will  save 
gas  money,  and  doubling  up  in  hotel  rooms  is  a  must 
For  eight  of  us  to  stay  in  Mankato,  for  one  night, 
it  will  only  cost  $7.50  each.  That  is  assuming  that  we 
are  unable  to  find  a  less-expensive  room  than  the  one 
we  have  reserved. 

As  far  is  food  is  concerned,  one  should  take 
enough  to  stave  of  hunger  until  dinner.  Then  call 
around  to  find  a  bar  or  restaurant  that  serves  a  free 
happy  hour  buffet  of  snacks,  because  beggars  can’t 
be  choosers. 

There  is  always  the  dine  and  dash  possibility, 
although  I  would  not  advise  it.  It  might  end  up 
costing  more  than  the  meal  in  the  long  run. 

Shorter  day  trips  also  exist 

If  the  Mankato  trip  is  too  visionary  for  the  pock- 
etbook,  consider  traveling  to  our  rivals  home  court  or 
to  Warrensburg. 

The  volleyball  team  will  be  playing  home  games 
at  Missouri  Western  State  College  this  season,  and 
what  a  perfect  excuse  to  head  down  to  St.  Joseph  for 
dinner  at  Taco  Bell  and  a  trip  to  the  East  Hills  Mall 
*  before  catching  the  Bearcats  match. 

The45-minute drive  throughscenic  rural  America 
helps  relieve  weekly  stress  build  up.  Counting  cows, 
horses  or  any  other  combination  of  farm  animals, 
will  help  pass  the  time. 

Both  the  football  and  the  volleyball  team  will  play 
Central  Missouri  State  University  in  Warrensburg 
this  year,  and  for  those  who  have  yet  to  experience 
that  college  town,  attendance  should  be  mandatory. 

The  football  game  is  scheduled  for  November  6 
and  the  volleyball  game  for  October  23.  Cross  coun¬ 
try  has  the  MIAA  championships  there  as  well  on 
October  23. 

It  is  only  about  45  miles  east  of  Kansas  City  and 
over/under  bars  are  plentiful  and  worth  the  trip. 

Speaking  of  Kansas  City,  cross  country’s  John¬ 
son  County  Invitational  is  on  September  25  in  Over¬ 
land  Park,  Kan.,  which  is  just  a  hop,  skip  and  jump 
from  Westport,  the  Plaza,  the  Nelson  Atkins  Mu¬ 
seum  of  Art  and  the  Sports  complex. 

I  guess  what  I  am  trying  to  say  is  that  you  do  not 
have  to  know  every  player's  name  orcareerstatistics 
to  enjoy  an  away  game.  Go  to  the  game,  cheer  for  the 
our  team  and  then  hit  the  bars,  a  shopping  center  or 
the  miniature  golf  course.  The  choice  is  up  to  you. 
See  you  at  the  mall  (and  the  game  of  course.) 


Kris 

Underwood 

Associate  Editor 


KEY  QUOTE 


“He's  a  true  freshman  that  Just 
moved  to  the  line  the  day  before 
the  scrimmage,  and  Saturday  he 
did  a  hell  of  a  Job,  hustling  all  over 
the  field.” 

Erie  Johnson,  football  dafanalvo  tin*  coach 
on  Michael  Greene's  performance 


TOP  20  IN  DIVISION  1-A  FOOTBALL 

1.  Forida  State 

8.  Tennesse 

15.  Stanford 

2.  Michigan 

9.  Washington 

16.  Penn  State 

3.  Florida 

10.  Fresno  State 

17.  Boston  College 

4.  Alabama 

1 1 .  Notre  Dame 

18.  Oklahoma 

5.  Colorado 

12.  Arizona 

19.  Georgia 

6.  Miami 

13a.  Nebraska 

20.  Southern  Cal. 

7.  Syracuse 

13b.  Texas  A&M 

SOURCE:  Sports  Illustrated 

NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN  Page  9 


’Cats  ready  for  season 


DON  CARRICK/Contributing  Photographer 

SENIOR  QUARTERBACK  LAWRENCE  LUSTER  evades  two  would-be  tacklers  in  mage  allowed  the  team  to  practice  both  their  offensive  and  defensive  plays 
Saturday’s  Green  and  White  Scrimmage  at  Rlckenbrode  Stadium.  The  scrim-  In  preparation  for  Saturday’s  game  against  Mankato  State. 

Green  squad  edges  White,  25-15,  in  scrimmage 


QB  rushes  61  yards, 
throws  35-yard  TD; 
Elliott  impressed  with 
play  of  running  backs 

By  MATT  KITZI 

Missourian  Staff 

The  Bearcats  lit  up  the  scoreboard 
in  the  annual  Green  and  White  Scrim¬ 
mage  Saturday,  scoring  a  combined 
41  points  in  just  two  quarters  of  play. 

The  Green  squad  scored  the  last 
two  touchdowns  of  the  day,  en  route 
to  their  26-15  victory. 

Despite  rainy  conditions  and  a  slip¬ 
pery  field,  quarterbacks  senior 
Lawrence  “Bunky”  Luster  and  fresh¬ 
man  Ryan  Blum  launched  an  aerial 
assault,completingfiveandsix  passes, 
respectively. 

Luster  threw  a  35-yard  touchdown 
pass  to  senior  halfback  Jason  Krone 
and  also  scoredonan  1 1-yard  run.For 
the  day,  Luster  rushed  for  61  yards  on 
15  carries. 

“It  was  kind  of  a  broken  play,” 
Luster  said,  referring  to  the  Krone 
touchdown  play.  “He  kind  of  picked 
off  the  pass  from  the  other  receiver, 
and  just  walked  in.” 

Blum  compiled  6  of  10  passes  for 
112  yards  and  a  touchdown. 

Blum  hooked  up  with  junior  re¬ 


ceiver  Jaysen  Horn  on  a  35-yard 
touchdown  toss  in  the  first  quarter, 
giving  the  White  team  a  9-6  lead. 

“We’d  been  running  a  slant  all 
day,"  Horn  said.  “We  had  the  cor¬ 
ners  biting,  which  opened  up  the 
long  route,  and  he  (Blum)  just  laid  a 
perfect  pass  in  there  for  me.” 

Freshman  quarterback  Greg 
Teale  sat  out  the  scrimmage  due  to  a 
.  bruised  knee. 

The  injury  is  not  serious,  and 
Teale  is  expected  to  be  ready  for  the 
season  opener  Saturday. 

For  the  defense,  senior  defensive 
back  Cody  Buhrmeister  was  a 
kicker’s  nightmare,  as  he  blocked  a 
punt  that  senior  linebacker  Ahmed 
Mortis  recovered  and  took  in  for  a 
touchdown. 

Buhrmeister  also  came  close  to 
blocking  an  extra  point,  broke  up 
another  pass  and  provided  strong 
run  support 

On  the  line,  6- 1 , 2 10  lb.  freshman 
defensive  lineman  Michael  Greene 
gotrave  reviews  from  defensive  line 
coach  Eric  Johnson. 

“He’s  a.  true  freshman  that  just 
moved  to  the  line  the  day  before  the 
scrimmage,  and  Saturday  he  did  a 
hell  of  a  job,  hustling  all  over  the 
field,”  Johnson  said. 

Greene  had  10  solo  tackles  and  a 
pair  of  sacks,  despite  working  out 


with  the  linebackers  all  summer. 

“I  was  really  impressed  with  our 
running  backs,  particularly  Jason 
Krone,  Jesse  Haynes,  Chris  Brooks, 
Antwoine  Thurman,  and  Michael 
Ford,  and  withRyanBlum,  our  fresh¬ 
man  quarterback,”  head  coach  Bud 
Elliou  said.  “But,  the  green  offense 
and  defense  was  very  inconsistent 
and  our  kicking  game  isn’t  where  it 


should  be  at  all.” 

With  the  scrimmage  and  another 
week  of  practice  behind  them,  the 
Bearcats  now  look  to  Saturday’s 
opener  against  nationally  ranked 
Mankato  State  University. 

“We  just  want  to  go  play  and  do 
what  we  have  to  do,”  Luster  said. 
“Whetherits  withbigplays  or  drives, 
we  just  got  to  gel  it  done.” 


SCRIMMAGE  STATS 

Blum 

6-10,  112  yards,  1  TD 
Luster 

5-9, 106  yards,  1  TD 
Krone 

(rushing)  5-33, 1  TD 
(receiving)  2-58, 1  TD 
Horn 

(receiving)  3-63, 1  TD 


’Cats  to  square  off  with  Mavericks 


By  MATT  MARCKMANN 

Missourian  Staff 

As  the  summer  comes  to  a  close,  it  once  again  is 
time  for  football.  This  Saturday,  the  Northwest 
Bearcats  begin  the  1993  season  on  the  road  against 
the  Mankato  State  (Minn.)  Mavericks. 

“I’m  excited  for  the  season  to  start,”  junior 
defensive  tackle  Clarence  Greene  said.  “Mankato 
is  a  great  team  to  start  the  season  with.” 

Both  the  Mavericks  and  Bearcats  went  6-5.1ast 
season  and  have  been  ranked  in  ’93  pre-season 
polls. 

Northwest  is  rated  25th  by  the  College  Football 
Pfreview,  and  Mankato  State  has  been  ranked  by 
three  different  polls,  the  best  being  13  th. 

Mankato  State  is  5-1  lifetime  against  the 
Bearcats,  winning  last  year’s  meeting,  27-13. 

Four  top  seniors  are  returning  for  the  ’Cats, 
halfback  Jason  Krone,  fullback  Grant  McCartney, 
middle  linebacker  Ahmed  Mortis  and  free  safety 


Cody  Buhrmeister. 

The  Mavericks  are  returning  16  starters  and  are 
lead  by  running  back  Eric  Skow,  widereceiver  Josh 
Nelsen  and  quarterback  Jamie  Pass. 

Last  year,  Pass  went  15-32  for  203  yards  and 
two  touchdowns. 

“We  need  to  stop  Jamie  Pass  from  having  a  big 
game,”  defensive  coordinator  A1  Cade  said. 

On  the  offensive  side  of  the  ball,  Northwest  is 
confident  in  their  play. 

“I  expect  it  to  be  a  tough  game  because  they  have 
good  returning  linebackers,”  junior  center  Brian 
Lanning  said.  “But  they  lack  experience  on  the 
defensive  line.  Our  schemes  should  work  well 
against  their  defense.” 

Despite  the  Mavericks’  rank,  the  ’Cats  are  anx¬ 
ious  for  the  competition. 

“Stepping  on  the  field  with  a  team  like  Mankato 
S  late  will  give  us  an  indication  of  what  we’ll  beable 
to  do  against  the  top  teams  in  the  MIAA,”  head 
coach  Bud  Elliott  said. 


Netters’  starting  lineup  indefinite 


9  players  compete 

for  starting  positions; 

3  have  collegiate  play 

By  SCOTT  ENGLERT 

Missourian  Staff 

On  the  brink  of  the  1993  volleyball 
season,  head  coach  Sarah  Pelster  is 
encouraged  by  the  play  of  her  young 
Bearcat  team.  With  only  three  players 
having  played  last  year,  inexperience 
may  plague  the  Bearcats  early  on. 

“Practiceisgoingfine,"Pelstersaid. 
“The  cool  weather  has  really  been 
helping  us  out.  With  this  weather,  it 
allows  us  to  up  our  intensity  during 
practice.  Now  we  don’t  have  to  take  a 
water  break  after  every  drill." 

The  Bearcats  will  play  all  of  their 
games  on  the  road  this  year  due  to  the 
construction  of  Lamkin  Gym.  Games 
that  were  previously  scheduled  at  home 
will  be  moved  to  Missouri  Western. 


“Most  of  the  players  don’t  know 
what  it  is  like  to  play  here,  so  they 
won’t  miss  the  home  fieldadvantage,” 
Pelster  said.  “The  only  bad  part  is 
traveling.  The  players  will  miss  a  lot 
more  school,  but  it  wQn’t  be  quite  as 
bad  playing  at  Missouri  Western  and 
traveling  only  40  miles.” 

Pelster  is  still  without  a  definite 
starting  lineup,  but  she  does  say  that 
the  positions  have  come  down  to  eight 
or  nine  players.  Only  three  of  those 
have  any  collegiate  game  experience. 

“Inexperience  may  hurt  us  early 
on.  Especially  at  the  setter  position. 
We  have  three  freshman  playing  there 
and  a  junior  and  none  of  them  have  any 
game  experience  there,”  Pelster  said. 
“The  game  is  so  much  more  faster  than 
what  these  girls  are  used  to.” 

The  team  will  rely  on  three  senior 
outside  hitters  in  Becky  Brown,  Heidi 
Yurka  and  Tracie  Simmons  to  provide 
the  leadership  for  this  year’s  squad. 

Brown,  a  two-year  starter,  for  the 


‘Cats,  led  the  team  in  kills  last  season 
with  329,  and  saving  digs  with  455. 
She  needs  only  seven  digs  to  pass  fifth- 
place  Nancy  Pfeifler  on  the  school 
career  digs  list. 

Y  urka  played  in  all  42  matches,  and 
in  151  of  the  team’s  154  games  last 
season.  She  was  also  second  in  the 
team  in  saving  digs  with  437.  She  had 
a  career-high  27  digs  last  year  against 
College  of  St.  Mary. 

Simmons  transferred  to  Northwest 
las  t  year  following  two  years  af Yavapai 
Community  College  in  Prescott,  Ariz. 

This  physical  education  major  was 
second  on  the  team  last  year  in  season 
kill  percentage  with  a  .255  average. 

“These  should  be  our  three  stabiliz¬ 
ing  factors,"  Pelster  said,  “They  have 
the  most  game  experience  and  will 
have  to  take  control  out  on  th£  court” 

The  ’Cats  will  face  Benedictine 
and  the  College  of  St.  Mary,  Tuesday. 
On  Wednesday,  they  will  take  on  Em¬ 
poria  State  in  Emporia,  Kan. 


WEEK  AT  A  GLANCE 

(q}  TUlevtied  Broadcasting 

.  7™  "  "  7"’  ""s'" ' 

Friday  Royals  at  Boston  Red  Sox,  6:35  ‘ 

Saturday  Royals  at  Boston  Red  Sox.  i2:05  „ 

Northwest  football  at  Mankato  State  Umv^Sity/  ' 
Mankato,  Minn.,  7  p.ro,  \ 


Sunday  ,Royals  at  Boston  Red  Sot*  lfcOS  $&,(£&  ,  ; 

-v'  Chiefs  at  Tfooipa  Bay  Buccaneers,  noon 


:||Jg 


Pago  10  NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


Sports 


’Cats  bear  up  for  fall  ball  season 


By  NATE  OLSON 

Missourian  Staff 


When  one  thinks  of  baseball  during  the  fall,  they 
likely  think  of  the  Major  League  Baseball  pennant 
races  and  the  World  Series. 

However,  Northwest  also  has  some  baseball  action 
to  offer,  as  fall  baseball  practice  started  on  Monday. 

Head  coach  Jim  Johnson  and  the  Bearcats  are  not 
playing  in  the  World  Series,  but  they  are  entering  an 
important  part  of  their  season. 

The  NCAA  allots  college  teams  22  weeks  to  prac¬ 
tice,  and  the  ’Cats  will  use  five  of  those  this  fall.  The 
teams  are  allowed  to  practice  20  hours  a  week.  They 
usually  practice  six  days  a  week  for  2-3  hours. 

“The  first  purpose  (of  fall  baseball)  is  to  evaluate 
prospects  and  suspects  for  the  spring,  and  the  second  is 
to  introduce  and  review  the  philosophy  of  Northwest 
baseball  to  the  players,”  Johnson  said. 

In  addition  to  practicing,  the  team  will  also  get  a 
chance  to  play  junior  colleges  in  some  exhibition 
games. 

“It  helps  us  to  play  outside  competition,  and  it 
allows  us  to  look  at  players  that  we  may  be  interested 
in  recruiting,”  Johnson  said. 

According  to  senior  Brian  Davis,  the  ’Cats  will  play 
Iowa  Western  and  Southwestern  Iowa  in  September. 

“They’re  junior  colleges,  so  we  should  be  able  to 
beat  them  because  we’re  D-II,”  Davis  said.  “They’ll  be 
tough  but  we  should  have  more  talent  than  them  since 
we’re  a  four  year  school.  They  only  have  freshmen  and 
sophomores.” 

Freshmen  and  transfers  find  the  fall  practices  ad¬ 
vantageous. 

“It’s  a  lot  different  than  high  school,”  freshman 
Justin  Abbott  said.  “It  helps  because  it  gets  you  ready 
for  spring  and  helps  get  you  over  the  change  from  high 
school  baseball  to  college  baseball.” 

The  returning  players  find  the  freshmen  players  to 
be  adjusting  well  to  practice. 


PLAYER  WATCH  fl||jS 

Mark  Roberts  •> 

Class:  Senior 

Hometown:  Kitchner,  Ontario  XSillL 
(Forest  Heights  HS) 

Major  Business  management 

Career  stats:  Fifteenth-place  finisher  at  last  year’s 

MIAA  championships 

finished  third  at  the  1991  MIAA  meet  with  an  8K 
clocking  of  25:03,  three  seconds  behind  teammate 
Kenrick  Sealy’s  second-place  time 
Last  tear's  stats:  First  Bearcat  to  hit  the  finish  in 
five  of  Northwest’s  seven  meets  last  season 
second  at  the  Northwest  Distance  Classic  (27:28, 8K) 
finished  18th  (33:35, 10K)  at  Great  Lakes  Regionals 


JON  BRITTON/Northwest  Missourian 

SENIOR  FIRST  BASEMAN  DAVID  HOBBS  shags  a  grounder  during  the  fall  practice  Wednes¬ 
day.  The  Bearcats  began  their  five-week  stint  Monday.  The  ’Cats  have  to  rely  on  their  new 
pitching  staff,  only  three  pitchers  returned.  After  fall  practice  ends,  the  Bearcats  will  begin 
weight  training  and  informal  workouts.  The  season  will  officially  start  In  January. 

1  Rally  celebrates  football  teams 


By  GENE  CASSELL 

Missourian  Staff 

The  Bearcat  football  season  will  get  its  offi¬ 
cial  kickoff  tonight  with  the  annual  rally  begin¬ 
ning  at  7  p.m.  at  the  Nodaway  County  Court¬ 
house. 

The  event  will  start  with  a  tailgate  party  and 
cookout  at  6  p.m.  with  food  being  served  by 
Easter’s,  Country  Kitchen  and  Mid-Continent 
Bottlers. 

Head  coach  Bud  Elliott  will  introduce  his 
coaching  staff  and  the  Bearcats.  The  Northwest 
Marching  Band,  Varsity  Cheerleaders  and  the 
High  Steppers  Pom  Pon  Squad  will  perform. 


The  kickoff  will  be  sponsored  by  KNIM  Ra¬ 
dio  and  will  be  emceed  by  disc  jockey  Jerry  Lutz. 

“The  puipose  of  the  kickoff,  is  to  get  the 
community  fired  up  about  the  upcoming  Bearcat 
and  Spoofhound  seasons,”  Lutz  said. 

In  addition  to  the  Bearcats,  the  Maryville  High 
School  football  team  will  be  introduced  with  their 
coaches  and  cheerleaders. 

The  Marching  Spoofhounds  Band  will  also 
give  a  performance. 

“It’s  a  good  chance  for  us  to  meet  the  public,” 
sophomore  strong  safety  Jeff  Wheeler  said.  “It 
allowsthemtoputsome  faces  with  the  numbers.” 

“The  rally  helps  us  get  pumped  up  for 
Mankato,”  senior  linebacker  J im  Willits  said. 


Part-time  Philadelphia  Phillies  lend  morale 
to  help  keep  teammates  on  winning  streak 

PHILADELPHIA  (AP)  -  Mickey  Morandini  and  Wes  Chamberlain  do 
not  care  whether  they  play  supporting  or  starring  roles  for  theJPhiladclphia 
Phillies,  as  long  as  their  team  keeps  winning. 

The  part-timers  stepped  forward  Sunday  to  drive  in  four  runs  as 
Philadelphia  beat  Cincinnati  12-0.  Rickey  Jordan  added  three  hits  to  back 
up  Danny  Jackson’s  strong  pitching  as  the  Phillies  prevented  the  Reds 
from  sweeping  the  series  at  Veterans’  Stadium. 

Morandini- who  losthis  starting  jobatsecondbase  to  Mariano  Duncan 
-  had  two  triples,  while  Chamberlain,  who  platoons  in  right  field  with  Jim 
Eiscnreich,  contributed  a  bases-loaded  double  in  a  four-run  second  inning. 

Asked  about  his  recent  lack  of  playing  time,  Morandini  said,  “Obvi¬ 
ously,  I’d  like  to  play  more  -  everybody  on  the  team  would.  But  Mariano 
got  hot,  and  he  deserved  to  play.” 

“I  have  to  keep  a  positive  attitude,”  he  added.  “It’s  not  difficult  when 
you’re  winning  like  we  are.” 

“Everybody  wants  to  get  out  there  and  play,”  said  Chamberlain,  who 
made  his  first  start  Sunday  since  Aug.  25.  “You  can  always  pop  off  about 
it,  but  it  wouldn’t  make  sense  because  we’re  winning.” 

Phillies  manager  Jim  Fregosi  lauded  his  bench  players. 

Mountain  bike  popularity  climbs  to  cities 

CHARLESTON,  W.Va.  (AP)-From  the  rugged  hiUs  of  West  Virginia 
to  New  York’s  grid-locked  blocks,  mountain  bikes  have  become  the 
favored  means  of  transport  for  America’s  peddle-philes. 

Mountain  bikes  -  with  flat  handlebars,  fat  tires,  rugged  frames  and 
sticker  price  of  roughly  $500  -  have  zoomed  ahead  since  their  invention 
in  the  1970s. 

Meanwhile,  conventional,  curved-handlebar  ten-speeds  -  called  road 
or  touring  bikes-have  fallen  behind.  Mountain  bikes  now  accountfor  two- 
thirds  of  the  $3.5  billion-a-year  U.S.  bicycle  market.  That’s  up  from  5 
percent  in  1982,  when  combined  gross  sales  were  around  $2.5  billion, 
according  to  Steve  Ready,  owner  of  Interbike,  which  produces  bicycle 
trade  shows. 

At  the  Charleston  Bicycle  Center,  owner  Bill  Nottingham  sells  10 
mountain  bikes  for  every  conventional  10-speed. 

“In  fact,  we  almost  celebrate  every  time  somebody  comes  in  and  buys 
a  (10-speed)  because  it’s  so  infrequent,”  Nottingham  said. 

Braves  fight  for  No.  1  seed  in  the  NL  West 

ATLANTA  (AP)  -  The  Atlanta  Braves  hold  the  trump  card  as  they 
begin  their  second  critical  NL  West  series  in  a  week  against  the  San 
Francisco  Giants  Tuesday  at  home. 

Three  of  their  pitching  aces  are  ready  for  the  staggering  Giants,  who 
have  been  beset  by  injuries  and  slumps. 

The  Giants  hold  a  4  1/2-game  lead  with  their  big  series  at  Atlanta, 
winning  3-2  at  Atlanta  on  Wednesday  night.  But  San  Francisco  has  seen 
a  10-game  advantage  over  the  Braves  on  July  22  shrink  after  Atlanta’s 
three-game  sweep  at  San  Francisco  last  week. 

The  two-time  defending  NL  champion  Braves  have  won  seven  of  nine 
and  16  of  their  last  20  games. 

“Atlanta’s  not  the  type  of  team  you  want  to  go  down  to  the  wire  with,” 
Giants  first  baseman  Todd  Benzinger  said,  after  San  Francisco  beat  the 
Marlins  9-3  Sunday  night.  ,a,v. 


Friday  Nights. 
Football  Games. 
Seat  Belts, 


mmm 


ponsored  by  the  National  Highway  Traffic  Safety 
Administration  and  your  State  Highway  Safety  Office 


Check  Student  dr  Bam 
Coupon  Book  _  ,  , 

Fit  Levi  & 

20%  OFF 

ANY  PURCHASE 

Fields  Clothing 

The  look,  the  price  and  the  service  you  deserve! 

N.  Side  of  Square  •  Maryville,  Mo.  •  582-2861 
Open  Daily  9  a.m.-5:30  p.m.  •  Thurs.  9  a.m.-9p.m. 


oflavaliers. 

<DEK  AKA 
A<DA  AXO 
AX  XOE 
TKE  £T r 
Arp 


119  W.  Third 
582-5571 


GRAY’S 

RESTAURANT 


Mranicol  M\ 

Tonight  &  Tomorrow 
OVEH/UNDER  Tom# 

Happy  Hour  Tomorrow 
/J Drink  Special  Tomorrow  VCk 


World  Famous  Outback  •  424  N.  Buchanan  •  562-6621 


Pepsi,  Dr.  Pepper  ^Ifj^ 
&  Mountain  Dew  24-oacks 


Just  3  miles  north  of  campus 
on  Highway  71. 

Open  Daily  6  a.m.  - 11  p.m.  •  582-2412 


Guy’s  Potato  Chips 
6  oz.  bag 


Hostess  multi-pack 
Iwinkies  or  cup-cakes 


EMPLOYEE  OWNED 


mjgj  “Lots  of  little  differences.„you’ll  like!" 

loinrct  .  n.- _ _ m.  n.n. 


FOOD  STORES 


1217  S.  Main  •  Maryville,  Mo.  •  582-2191 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 _ 

HAVIN’  FUN  YET? 


▼ 

,  Cops,  security  put 
unwarranted fear 


•  •  • 


into  my  activities 


*  o  I  smell  bacon? 

I  I  I  don’t  use  this 

to  refer  to  the  sweet  '•  Sr  ! 

pungency  produced  when 
the  frying  pan  is  filled  with  “S|k' 
a  slab  of  cured  pork,  but  | ' 
instead  to  the  doughnut  , 
smell  of  a  man  in  blue. 

Policeofficers,  tobepo- 
h  litically  correct,  arc  our  Shane 
friends  -  at  least  that  is  Whitaker 
what  I’ve  thought  since  I  Columnist 

was  young  boy.  Yet,  for  - y - 

some  unknown  reason, 
whenever  I  come  across 
one  I  just  seem  to  tense  up. 

The  last  thing  I  want  to  do  is  to  trash  all  cops 
in  this  column.  I  have  great  respect  for  the  profes¬ 
sion;  it’s  right  above  convenience  store  worker 
4  and  slumlord. 

I  would  never  want  to  be  a  cop,  but  if  Slick 
\  Willy  gets  a  good  community  service  program 
\  through  as  a  way  to  pay  off  college  loans,  I  might 
|  just  suit  up  for  a  couple  of  years.  Clinton  wants 
|  more  cops,  I  hate  being  in  debt;  the  right  incen- 
M  tives  could  see  me  being  a  cop. 

M  Enoughspeculation.Ihavethesame.chanceof 
W  being  struck  by  lightning  twice  or  winning 
f  *  Powerball,  and  if  I  were  to  ever  be  a  policeman  I 
I  would  play  Powerball  all  the  time.  I  could  specu¬ 
late  on  what  I  would  do  if  I  won  the  lottery  for 
weeks,  maybe  years. 

Back  to  the  original  topic,  my  fear  of  cops.  It’s 
not  like  I’ve  ever  done  anything  wrong;  I’d  never 
do  that  (very  sarcastic). 

I  just  turned  21,  so  I  no  longer  have  to  fear 
meeting  a  cop  after  I’ve  had  a  few  drinks.  Unless 

*  I  am  driving  -drinking  and  driving  don’ t  mix;  I’d 
never  do  that  (I’m  not  being  sarcastic,  it’s  not  a 
funny  subject). 

I  once  passed  a  sobriety  test,  but  I  was  com¬ 
pletely  sober.  The  cop  just  pulled  me  over  be¬ 
cause  he  said  I  swerved.  I  gave  him  a  face  full  of 
my  sober  breath  just  to  prove  to  him  I  was  a  poor 

driver  and.  not  drinking.  ....  —  . . - 

«  Most  of  my  dealings  with  cops  have  been 
because  of  my  bad  driving.  I  am  the  man  who 
once  hit  a  school  bus,  but  it  was  one  of  those  little 
school  buses. 

Rubbemeckers  came  out  of  nowhere  to  gawk 
at  the  sight  of  an  accident  involving  a  school  bus. 
However,  the  cops  were  very  gentle  with  me.  The 
judge  was  not  so  polite  as  he  embarrassed  me  in 
Vourt  by  reiterating  the  fact  that  it  was  a  yellow 
school  bus  I  had  hit. 

Like  most  good  college  students,  I  consumed 
a  fair  amount  of  alcohol  before  legal  age.  I  was 
able  to  keep  out  of  trouble,  or  at  least  with  the  law. 

Friendly  officers  give  warnings.  Pigs  break  up 
a  party  because  of  a  complaint  made  by  an  elderly 
couple  a  block  down  the  street. 

**  The  way  of  the  game  is  to  figure  out  the  law, 
but  the  law  can  be  so  relative. 

In  a  town  where  I  used  to  live,  a  policeman  left 
after  15  years  of  service.  Within  six  months  of  his 
leaving  the  town,  my  town  had  gone  through  three 
officers.  He  had  created  a  law  much  more  relaxed 
than  a  new  cop  wanted  things  to  be.  The  people 
had  created  and  worked  with  this  easy  way  of  the 


Shane 

Whitaker 

Columnist 


The  people  don’t  always  control  the  show. 

I  learned  this  the  other  night  at  a  Fugazi 
concert.  If  the  people  there  would  create 
the  law,  then  everyone  would  have  been  on  the 
^floor  level  moshing  - 1  don’t  even  care  for  mosh 
pits,  but  the  spirit  was  there. 

I  couldn’t  review  this  concert  because  I  know 
as  much  aboutFugazi  as  1  do  about  Barry  Manilow; 
probably  less,  considering  I  know  how  to  sing  a 
couple  of  commercial  jingles. 

The  security  officers  were  hired  to  keep  order, 
and  that’s  what  they  did.  As  people  rushed  to 
^jump  over  the  lower  balcony  wall  to  the  mosh  pit, 
security  guards  apprehended  the  teens  and  es¬ 
corted  them  out  of  the  concert. 

Teens  comprised  most  of  this  concert.  I  never 
felt  so  old  in  my  life.  My  adolescent  years  are 
coming  to  an  end.  In  my  younger  days  I  would 
have  made  the  thrilling  jump  onto  the  floor  in 
hopes  of  avoiding  the  authorities. 

While  security  was  handling  the  hoodlums 
ooking  for  fun  in  the  pit,  there  was  a  fight  which 
ost  took  place  right  in  front  of  me. 

A  guy  was  sitting  in  his  seat  that  he  had  paid 
1.50  service  charge  to  reserve,  and  then  some 
y  comes  and  blocks  his  view.  He  reached  up  to 
young  man  and  told  him  to  step  out  of  his  way. 
»ere  weren’t  many  people  who  could  sit  through 
■  show,  but  this  gentleman  could.  The  young 
proceeded  to  leave  the  spot  he  was  standing 
,  but  soon  returned  to  throw  a  sucker  punch  at 
gentleman. 

No  fight  broke  out.  There  was  a  lot  of  talk,  but 
security  ever  jumped  on  that  situation.  The  old 
e  is  true:  The  best  way  to  keep  a  cop  away 
to  call  one. 


I 


NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN  Page  11 


Oh,  baby,  what  a  play!” 

Yes  these  words  from  Kan¬ 
sas  City  Chief  broadcaster 
Kevin  Harlan  are  familiar  to  all 
Chiefs  fans  who  listen  to  the 
games  on  the  radio  while  watching  them  on 
television. 

Starting  S  unday.  Chiefs  fans  can  hear  these 
immortal  words  again  as  the  professional 
football  season  kicks  off  the  season. 

Senior  Shannon  Nelson  said  the  epitome 
of  football  is  in  the  contest  between  everyone 
-  not  just  the  players. 

“It’s  not  only  the  players  versus  the  play¬ 
ers,  but  the  coaches  versus  the  other  players 
•  and -the- coaehes  versus  the  other  coach.” 
Nelson  said.  “It’s  like  a  chess  match  with  real 
people  as  the  pieces.” 

While  Nelson  said  he  enjoyed  football  for 
the  strategy  some  people  like  to  look  at  it  in  a 
more  simple  manner. 

“I  love  football,”  Norm  Jarrett,  junior,  said 
“It’s  an  organized  struggle  for  power  on  a 
weekly  basis.” 

Football  is  definitely  a  weekly  event,  and 
for  the  next  1 8  weeks  the  NFL  regular  season 
will  be  in  full  gear.  All  three  major  networks 
and  two  cable  stations  will  televise  profes¬ 
sional  games  all  day  Sunday  and,  of  course, 
there  is  ABC’s  Monday  Night  Football. 

“Football  is  very  important  on  Sunday 
during  football  season,”  Jarreu  said.  “Most  of 
the  time  I  will  always  watch  football.  If  there 
is  a  way  of  trying  to  get  out  of  something  to 
watch  football,  I’ll  do  it.” 

Tickets  to  football  games  are  a  hot  com¬ 
modity  in  today’s  market,  as  the  Kansas  City 
Chiefs  have  already  sold  out  every  home 
game. 

Sophomore  Chris  Brownsbergersaid  he  is 
a  Chiefs  fan  because  they  are  a  local  team .  He 
also  hopes  to  be  able  to  make  it  to  a  couple  of 
games  this  year,  but  will  probably  enjoy  most 
games  on  TV  with  friends. 

“I  usually  sit  around  with  my  friends  and 


Television,  radio  tune  into  NFL  games ; 
fans  ecstatic  as  season  gets  under  way 


drink  beer,”  Brownsberger  said.  “Unless 
we’re  lucky  enough  to  get  a  ticket  to  go,  then 
we  sit  around  the  stands  and  drink  beer.” 

Brownsbergersaid  the  correlation  be  tween 
drinking  beer  and  football  is  partly  male 
bonding,  but  then  women  can  enjoy  the  game, 
too. 

“I  don’t  think  drinking  is  crucial  to  it 
(watching  football),  but  I  just  usually  drink 
when  I’m  sitting  around  doing  anything  with 
my  friends,”  Brownsberger  said. 

Going  to  a  friend’s  house  is  a  popular  way 
to  enjoy  the  game  of  football. 

“I  go  over  to  friends  and  watch  (football) 
most  of  the  time,”  Jarrett  said.  “I  go  over  to 
somebody ’s  house  if  there’s  a  good  game  on, 
and  going  to  the  bars  can  be  a  good  way  to 
watch  a  game.” 

Bars  around  here  do  not  cater  to  the  usual 


football  watching  crowd,  Jarrett  said. 

“I  go  to  the  bar  for  big  games  like  Super 
Bowl  or  playoff  games,”  Jarrett  said.  “There 
are  no  sports  bar  here.” 

Every  fan  seems  to  have  a  favorite  football 
team  they  like  to  watch.  Richard  Frucht,  pro¬ 
fessor  of  history,  cheers  for  the  Los  Angeles 
Raiders. 

One  glance  atFrucht’s  office  and  the  silver 
and  black  will  forever  be  stuck  in  your  head. 
Raiders’  posters,  player  figurines,  a  clock  and 
even  a  black  and  silver-haired  troll  doll  deco¬ 
rate  the  walls  and  shelves  of  his  office. 

His  enjoyment  of  the  game  is  not  as  rabid 
as  his  office  would  portray,  Frucht  said. 

“It  gives  my  wife  and  my  daughter  some¬ 
thing  to  give  me  for  my  birthday  and  Christ¬ 
mas  other  than  the  proverbial  tie,’’Frucht  said. 

Frucht’s  Raider  imagecameaboutbecause 


of  a  college  dish  collection  that  always  in¬ 
cludes  a  wide  variety  of  football  items,  he  said. 

“The  Raider  identification  came  about  be¬ 
cause  I  carried  in  a  Raiders’  coffee  mug  one 
day  14  years  ago  and  the  Chief  fans  started 
giving  me  a  hard  time,”  he  said.  “So,  I  realized 
this  was  a  way  to  get  that  line  between  student 
and  professor  as  thin  as  possible.  If  you  could 
feel  comfortable  about  giving  me  the  razz 
about  the  Raiders,  you  shouldn’t  be  reticent 
about  asking  a  question  or  making  a  point  It 
seems  to  work.” 

Students  make  comments  to  him  all  the 
time  about  being  a  Raiders  fan,  and  now  that 
the  Chiefs  are  doing  well  -  and  the  Raiders  are 
not  -  he  gets  alot  of  razzing,  he  said. 

“It  got  to  be  the  trade  mark;  so  what  the  heck 
-  run  with  it,”  Frucht  said. 

Jarrett  said  he  roots  for  both  the  Chiefs  and 
Pittsburgh  Steelers. 

“Back  when  they  were  a  power  house,  in 
the  late  ’70s,  I  loved  the  Steelers,”  Jarrett  said. 
“I  went  through  a  lot  of  mean  years,  but  now 
they  finally  haveaquarterback,andTrn  happy." 

Both  Jarrett  and  Brownsberger  believe  the 
Steelers  will  have  a  good  season. 

Nelson  said  he  picks  the  Chiefs  and  Green 
Bay  Packers  to  do  well  this  year,  but  also  thinks 
the  New  England  Patriots  will  surprise.  He 
roots  for  the  Patriots  because  they  are  always 
an  underdog. 

Not  everyone  is  able,  to  get  into  football. 
Senior  Matt  Williams  said  he  was  not  raised  in 
a  sports  family,  and  he  never  learned  to  under¬ 
stand  the  game. 

“I  just  can’t  get  into  the  sport,”  Williams 
said.  “The  whole  purpose  of  the  game  just 
seems  to  be  lost  on  me.  I  just  don’t  see  what’s 
fun  about  it," 

Williams  said  his  not  liking  to  watch  foot¬ 
ball  doesn’t  really  impede  on  his' social  life 
until  playoff  or  Super  Bowl  games. 

“I  just  find  something  else  to  do  on  those 
days  like  do  some  studying  or  read  a  book,”  he 
said. 


ROCKER  HELPS  FLOOD  VICTIMS  John  Mellencamp  raised  more  than  literary  tributes — the  T-shirt.  Grisham  is  the  author  of  “The  Firm”  and  “The 
$450,000  last  month  for  Midwest  flood  victims,  a  spokesman  for  the  singer  Pelican  Brief.”  He  reportedly  sold  his  yet-to-be  written  book  for  a  whopping 
said.  The  rocker  sold  out  “Concerts  for  the  Heartland”  in  Chicago,  Indianapo-  $3.5  million,  the  largest  amount  to  be  paid  to  any  author  for  a  book-tumed- 
lis  and  St.  Louis.  script. 


SUPERSTAR  FACES  CHARGES  Mega  star  Michael  Jackson  is  facing 
allegations  of  child  molestation  from  a  13-year-old  boy,  who  accuses  Jackson 
of  performing  sexual  act  on  him  during  a  four-month  relationship.  Jackson 
said  the  allegations  grew  from  somebody  who  tried  to  extort  $20  million  from 
him.  He  returned  to  stage  to  perform  in  Singapore  tocontinue  his“Dangerous” 
tour.  Jackson,  who  turned  35  on  Sunday,  postponed  two  concerts  in  Bangkok 
because  of  acute  dehydration  caused  by  excessive  heat  and  humidity  in  the 
Thai  metropolis. 

DENVER  FAILS  TEST  Folk  singer  John  Denver  failed  a  roadside  sobriety  test 
on  his  way  home  from  a  restaurant  in  Aspen,  Colo,  last  week  and  was  arrested 
on  a  charge  of  driving  under  the  influence,  The  singer  was  released  to  the 
custody  of  a  friend,  police  said. 

GRISHAM  MAKES  HISTORY  Famed  author  John  Grisham  has  joined 
Dickens,  Shakespeare  and  others  celebrated  with  that  most  American  of 


ANOTHER  VIDEO  GAME  HITS  HOME  A  new  book  called  “Game  Over”  is 
about  a  machine  that  has  entered  over  34  million  American  homes  via  the 
Nintendo  Entertainment  System  and  Super  NES,  Author  David  Sheff  said 
Nintendo  may  do  in  America  in  the  last  decade  of  this  century  what  the  Model 
T  Ford  did  in  the  second  decade — literally  change  the  way  wo  live  our  lives. 

UNTIL  DEATH  DO  US  PART  Bruce  Willis  and  Demi  Moore,  pregnant  with 
her  third  child,  now  have  more  than  their  children  and  show-biz  careers  in 
common.  At  the  ground-breaking  last  weekend  for  the  new  Planet  Holly¬ 
wood  in  Las  Vegas,  it  was  announced  that  Moore  has  joined  her  husband  and 
actors  Arnold  Schwarzenegger  and  Sylvester  Stallone  as  business  partners. 

HAVE  A  COKE  The  Coca-Cola  folks,  jumping  on  an  advertising '  (pporlpjuty, 
ran  half-page  ads  in  English-language  newspapers  in  Bangkok,  Thailand. 
Beside  a  picture  of  a  very  large  chilled  bottle  of  their  product  were  the  woids: 
“Dehydrated?...  There’s  always  Coke;" 


Page  12  NORTHWEST  MISSOURIAN 


Arts  &  Entertainment 


Thursday,  September  2, 1993 


DISCO'S  DEAD 


▼ 

‘Saturation*  creates  original  \ 70s  sound,  fashion 
Urge  Overkill  gains  recognition  after fourth  album 


The  shinny  medallion  and 
color  me  ’70s  look  can  be 
backed  up  by  the  music  of 
Urge  Overkill.  On  the  band’s 
fourth  full-length  release  “Satu¬ 
ration,”  it’s  the  music  that  sets 
them  apart,  not  their  funky  attire. 

Urge  Overkill  has  always  had  that 
reputation  for  being  original,  but  jjm  \ 
now  they’re  getting  the  public  Music 

nod'for  their  musical  talent.  - 

“Sister  Havana”  begins  yourridc  through 
melodies,  ’70s  riffs,  rhythm  and  feedback. 
When  Nash  Kato  invites  you  to  “Come 
around  to  my  way  of  thinking,”  it’s  time  to 
kick  back  and  enjoy  what  the  band  has  to 
offer. 

Each  song  offers  its  own  surprise. 
“Heaven  90210”  is  a  perfect  mix  of  grunge 
and  rock  ballad  without  being  cheesy,  as  is 
“Back  on  Me.”  Urge  Overkill  takes  ’70s 
funk,  mixes  it  with  Boston  and  creates  some¬ 
thing  full  of  crashing  guitar,  groovy  bass 
and  that  crazy  disco  beat  shadowing  Blackie 


Jim  Krabbe 

Music  Critic 


Onassis’s  drumming. 

This  band  doesn’t  ignore  the 
underground  that  it  came  from. 
On  “Crackbabies”  and  “Erica 
Kane,"  the  snarl  of  Kato’s  guitar 
and  racing  thumps  on  Onassis’s 
snare  show  its  underground  ag¬ 
gression.  This  band  is  in  its  own 
abbe  wonderful  zone. 

ritic  Every  cut  gives  something  no 

i -  other  can  display.  “Nile  and 

Grey ’’rolls  along  with  underlying  bass  remi¬ 
niscent  of  Rea,  with  guitar  riffs  coming  at 
you  with  theauthority  Lenny  Kravitzevokes 
andOnassis  working  thedrums  forall  they ’re 
worth.  It’s  one  of  those  tunes  you  can  listen 
to  and  find  something  new  in  it  every  time, 
and  it’s  by  far  one  of  the  best  cuts  on  the 
whole  release. 

“Saturation”  gives  off  a  sound  that  can 
pleasea  wide  variety  of  tastes.  From  Grunge 
to  garage  days,  and  bass  to  ballads,  Urge 
Overkill  has  created  something  that  any 
music  connoisseur  will  be  aching  to  add  to 


their  collection.  Just  look  at  these  guys: 
With  their  flare  forpurple  polyester,  tyc-dye 
silk  shirts  and  glittering  peace  medallions, 
nobody  can  accuse  them  of  not  being  cre¬ 
ative.  What’snottolove?  “Saturation”  may 
be  the  band’s  biggest  release  yet,  as  it’s  still 
climbing  up  the  charts  as  fas  t  as  anything  out 
there. 

The  Chicago  trio  started  in  1986,  and 
soon  thereafter  acquired  a  rather  large  un¬ 
derground  following.  Since  then,  each  new 
release  showcases  their  talent  in  a  new  di¬ 
mension. 

Since  1986,  they’ve  gotten  notice  for 
their  ’70s  wardrobes  more  than  the  creative 
vibes  they’ve  written  and  recorded.  The 
band  still  practices  in  their  own  warehouse 
in  downtown  Chicago,  where  the  people  in 
the  neighborhood  have  jammed  to  the  mu¬ 
sic  since  its  earliest  days.  “Saturation”  is 
finally  giving  Urge  Overkill  some  of  the 
notice  they  really  deserve. 

Now  I  have  to  tell  you  I  don’t  dig  those 
thumbs  up,  five-star  types  of  rating  systems. 


“Saturation” 

Urge  Overkill 

I  also  don’t  get  overly  tripped  out  over  just 
any  half-way  decent  release  from  a  band.  I 
just  see  if  I  can  jam  out  to  it  and  appreciate 
what  talent  they’re  letting  me  hear.  I  can  say 
that  nobody  should  be  disappointed  with 
Urge  Overkill’s  “Saturation,”  so  just  make 
sure  you  put  this  one  on  the  list. 


REEL  TO  REEL 


▼ 

Gibson  Faces  hardships  in  directorial  debut 

An  item  appeared  in  the  paper  a  few  tionship  between  McCloud  and  '~r" — '~u u:  - * — ' 

years  ago  that  could  have  easily  aforlom  12-year-old  boy  named 
been  TV  talk  show  fodder.  The  Chuck  Norstadt  (Nick  Stahl), 


An  item  appeared  in  the  paper  a  few 
years  ago  that  could  have  easily 
been  TV  talk  show  fodder.  The 
story  revealed  a  poll  that  showed  whatquali- 
ties  men  and  women  sought  in  mates.  Both 
men  and  women  said  they  revered  honesty, 
intelligence,  sensitivity  and  sense  of  humor 
as  the  top  characteristics.  Strangely,  women 
claimed  sex  appeal  was  the  12th  mostdesir- 
ablequality;  whereas  men -not  surprisingly 
-  ranked  sex  appeal  much  higher  at  fifth. 

Yet,  in  light  of  American  pop  culture 
(TV,  books,  magazines,  movies,  music), 
how  does  this  poll  accurately  reflect  and 
reconcile  the  superficial  values  that  many 
people  seem  to  embrace  most  (sex  appeal, 
money,  material  items)? 

These  thoughts  came  to  mind  as  I  con¬ 
sider  “The  Man' Without  A  Face,”  Mel 
Gibson’s  directorial  debut.  Gibson  stars  in 
the  film  as  Justin  McCloud,  a  man  whose 
face  was  burned  by  a  fiery  car  accident.  By 
starring  as  a  disfigured  man,  Gibson  seems 
to  suggest  that  his  “true”  sex  appeal  derives 
from  his  personality  -  his  wit,  charisma  and 
easygoing  disposition.  Playing  McCloud, 
he  gets  to  show  the  audience  he’s  just  an 
ordinary  Joe  -  burned  face  and  all.  Will 
audiences  buy  it? 

The  story  of  “Face”  chronicles  the  rela¬ 


tionship  between  McCloud  and 
aforlom  12-year-old  boy  named 
Chuck  Norstadt  (Nick  Stahl), 
who  wants  McCloud  (a  former 
teacher)  to  tutor  him  in  numer¬ 
ous  subjects  as  a  ticket  to  pass  an 
enhance  exam  intoaprestigious 
military  academy. 

But  McCloud,  a  gruff,  reclu¬ 
sive  sort  who  lives  in  a  river-  ®on  Munsch 
side  farm  house,  shuns  Chuck.  Movie  Critic 
Persistent,  Chuck  comes  back  Y 

later  and  wins  the  trust  of 
McCloud,  whom  the  locals  ignore  and  refer 
to  as  “the  freak.” 

McCloud  schools  Chuck  in  poetry,  ge¬ 
ometry  and  Shakespeare,  all  the  while  con¬ 
cealing  his  ulterior  motive  of  learning  to  risk 
himself  emotionally  again,;- 

Chuck,  who  is  fatherless,  is  looking  for  a 
father  figure  and  comes  from  a  dysfunc¬ 
tional  family  he  wants  no  part  of. 

“Face”  wants  to  be  about  how  McCloud 
and  Chuck  forge  a  friendship  in  spite  of  their 
backgrounds.  But  we  never  really  get  a  feel 
for  the  big,  emotional  moments  of  their 
relationship  -  it  seems  as  if  many  scenes 
were  left  on  the  cutting  room  floor.  Nor  do 
we  get  a  handle  on  the  way  the  film  treats 
learning. 


THE  STROLLER 


Is  Chuck  changed  by  “The  Mer¬ 
chant  of  Venice,”  or  what?  As  a 
director,  Gibson ’s  style  seems  solid, 
but  rather  mechanical.  He  doesn’t 
pull  any  surprises.  Buthedoes  pull 
out  a  few  cliches  to  make  sure 
we’re  paying  attention. 

Acdng  is  a  very  tricky  thing.  An 
actor’s  body  -  or  face,  in  this  case 
tsefi  _  is  an  instrument,  one  that  can  be 
c  used  for  many  purposes.  Stahl  gives 

a  pretty  good  performance,  and  his 
face  shines  with  wonderand  amaze¬ 
ment  Gibson,  on  the  other  hand,  has  em¬ 
ployed  his  usually  bankable  face  for  the 
purpose  of  not  making  it  bankable.  He  took 
a  chance  with  this  material,  as  did  Jack 
Nicholson  in  “Chinatown,”  where  he  wore 
abandageon  his  nose.  Butthebandage  there 
didn’t  make  as  much  noise  as  scar  tissue 
does  here,  and  that’s  the  point. 

Rating: 

“The  Thing  Called  Love”  (★★)  More 
like  “The  Thing  Called  Tedium.”  Samantha 
Mathis  stars  in  this  country-western  music 
vehicle  as  Amanda,  a  young  New  York 
woman  who  treks  to  Nashville  to  make  it  big 
in  the  country  music  world. 

She  meets  James  (River  Phoenix),  an¬ 
other  aspiring  singer.  They  fall  in  love,  get 


Your  Man,  Bob  ready  to  party 
early  drinking  changes  plans 

Bob  forgot  to  give  me  his  phone  zels,”  I  hinted,  but  he  couldn’t  take  a  hint, 

numberlastweckafterwewent  I  I  I  became  blunt.  “I’ll  gladly  give  you  a  beer 

to  go  get  doughnuts.  I  knew  he  I  I  Tuesday  fora  Dretzel  todav.” 


If  you  have  a  news  tip  or  an 
idea  for  a  human  interest  story, 
call  the  Missourian  at 
562-1224. 


Wild  Kingdom 


Bob  forgot  to  give  me  his  phone  p*** 
numberlastweckafterwewent 
to  go  get  doughnuts.  I  knew  he 
was  a  student,  and  I  thought  he  was  prob- 
ably  a  freshman. 

Yet,  I  had  no  idea  how  to  get  a  hold  of 
him. 

We  had  begun  the  bonding  process,  but 
I  was  left  high  and  dry  on  how  to  continue  Yours  Trul  V 

my  blossoming  friendship  Invites  friend 

Well,  after  a  couple  of  days  of  situng  .  R  . 

around  and  waiting  for  my  friend  Bob  to 
walk  by,  I  finally  saw  him.  proves  to  be 

It  was  a  bright  and  sunny  day,  and  there  unique  with 
was  Bob  with  his  nose  in  a  book  sitting  by  simple,  easy 
ColdcnPond.  going  style. 

I  leaped  with  joy  and  yelled,  “Hey,  Bob. 

Bob,  look,  it’s  me.”  He  didn’t  notice  me  until  I  had  fallen 
in  his  book;  maybe  he  forgot  his  name  was  Bob. 

He  was  deep  into  reading,  so  I  decided  to  leave  him 
in  peace.  As  he  sat  and  read,  I  hummed  the  “Battle  Hymn 
of  the  Republic.”  I  only  knew  a  few  bars,  so  I  just  kept 
repeating  the  same  verses  over  and  over. 

He  finally  looked  up  at  Your  Man  and  asked,  “Could 
you  be  quiet?” 

“Not  really,”  I  answered.  “It’s  Friday  afternoon,  and 
we  need  to  party.”  . 

The  word  party  seemed  to  ignite  a  fire  in  him.  He 
closed  his  book  and  proceeded  to  ask  if  I  knew  where 
there  was  a  party. 

“I  always  know  where  there’s  a  party,  man.”  I  told 
him,  “So,  arc  we  going  to  paint  the  town  red?” 

“Sure,  I  just  need  to  take  my  books  back  to  my  room,” 
he  said. 

He  actually  thought  we  were  heading  to  a  party  at  one 
in  the  afternoon.  Yeah,  Bob  is  a  freshman,  I  thought  to 
myself.  As  we  were  walking  back  to  his  room,  Bob 
wanted  to  stop  in  the  Union.  He  picked  up  four  pints  of 
milk  to  carry  back  to  his  room. 

Your  Man  was  hungry,  but  failed  to  have  any  money 
on  his  Aladine.  I  mentioned  this  to  Bob,  but  he  didn’t 
seem  to  get  the  picture  desipite  the  fact  I  was  hinting 
really  hard  that  1  wanted  him  to  buy  me  a  snack. 

“God,  I  could  really  go  for  one  of  those  large  pret- 


zels,”  I  hinted,  but  he  couldn’t  take  a  hint. 
I  became  blunt.  “I’ll  gladly  give  you  a  beer 
T uesday  for  a  pretzel  today.” 

“Oh,  would  you  like  me  to  buy  you 
something?”  he  finally  asked. 

^  I  got  my  pretzel,  and  we  walked  back  to 

his  room .  I  wanted  to  scope  out  his  belong- 
ings  to  get  a  real  feel  of  who  I  was  dealing 

||y  with. 

jen(j  As  we  entered  past  the  doors,  I  noticed 

R  .  his  room  was  a  single.  One  shelf  was  filled 

with  empty  liquor  bottles,  and  the  trash  can 
|  was  over-flowing  with  empty  milk  car- 

ith  tons, 

asy  Bob  didn’t  seem  like  your  typical  alco- 

le .  holic,  but  this  was  only  the  third  week  of 

school  and  he  had  amassed  such  a  collec¬ 
tion  already. 

“So  do  you  like  to  drink  a  lot?”  I  asked,  pointing  to  all 
the  bottles. 

“I’ve  collected  those  since  I  started  school,”  he  an¬ 
swered. 

“But,  school  only  started  a  couple  of  weeks  ago. 
Aren’t  you  a  freshman?”  I  inquired. . 

His  eyes  glared  for  a  moment  with  frustration,  “This 
is  my  third  year  here,  thank  you.” 

“Well,  I’ve  never  noticed  you  before,”  I  responded, 
Uying  not  to  be  too  offensive.  “You  been  hiding  under  a 
rock?” 

“Hike  to  think  of  myself  as  a  little  more  studious  than 
your  normal  college  student,’’  he  said.  “I  finished  ‘War 
and  Peace’  last  semester," 

A  quick  glance  around  the  room  proved  he  was 
simple-minded  but  interesting. 

“Let’s  go  to  Beer-4-Less,"  I  suggested.  “You  drive?" 

“No,  don’t  you?" 

Well,  neither  of  us  had  a  car,  so  we  walked  to  the  new 
liquor  store.  We  purchased  a  couple  of  bottles  of  cheap 
wine,  and  started  drinking  while  watching  Jeopardy. 

Your  Man  and  Bob  didn’t  quite  make  it  to  all  those 
parties,  but  we  manage  to  drench  our  bodies  in  alcohol 
and  pass  out  before  eight  that  evening. 

The  Stroller  has  been  a  tradition  at  Northwest  since 
1918. 


tt  By  Anthony  Kublno,  Jr. 

"I  chink  chat  I  shall  never  see  /  A  billboard  lovely  as  a  tree  /  Indeed, 
unless  the  billboards  fall  /  I'll  never  see  a  tree  ac  all." — Of  dm  iVash— 


When  advertising  agenries  get  lazy. 


(no!  to  b*  conh/Md  with  “When  Cartoonist!  gel  lazy.*} 


BUY  THIS 

IT'S  GOOD. 


C  Anthony  Rybeno,  Jr  1991 


b 


Jim’s  Journal 


Movies 


(check  with  theaters  for  show  times) 


Maryville 

Missouri  Twin 

“Another  Stakeout”  and  “Rookie  of  the  Year” 

St.  Joseph 

Hillcrest  4 

“Needful  Things,”  “Rising  Sun,” 

“The  Fugitive,”  “Hard  Target” 

Plaza  8 

“Heart  and  Souls,”  “The  Thing  Called  Love,” 
“Free  Willy,”  ‘The  Secret  Garden,” 
“Son-in-Law,”  “Sleepless  in  Seattle,” 

“The  Man  Without  a  Face,” 

“Robin  Hood:  Men  in  Tights” 

Dickenson  Trail  Theater 
“Snow  White  and  the  Seven  Dwarfs” 


Stage 


married  in  a  Memphis  convenience  store  (in 
a  banal  and  hokey  sequence),  fight  about 
bills,  get  divorced  and  get  back  together 
again. 

This  description  fulfills  the  requirements 
for  many  country  songs  you’ll  hear  on  the 
radio,  but  you  don ’t  want  to  see  it  in  a  movie, 
do  you? 

No,  not  when  the  movieis  leisurely  paced 
and  contains  an  annoying  Phoenix  perfor¬ 
mance.  Phoenix  has  been  a  mannered  actor 
before,  but  here  he  apes  Peter  Fonda  in  one 
scene  and  does  the  James  Dean,  I-gotta-an- 
attitude-so-whal?  bit  in  the  next.  He  barely 
seems  to  be  on  the  same  page  as  the  other 
actors,  as  he  mumbles  his  lines,  tilts  his  head 
and  turns  his  eyes  away  from  the  other 
performers  in  a  grandstanding  fashion. 

There’s  a  good  cast  here  -  Mathis  and  co- 
star  Mulroney  have  done  good  work  before 
and  are  line  here  -  but  everyone  seems  to  be 
written  according  to  conventions  applicable 
to  movies  about  Southerners  and  country 
music.  Peter  Bogdanovich  directed  the  film, 
and  some  locations  (the  motel  with  the  funny 
marquee,  in  particular)  possess  a  sense  of 
quirkiness  and  personality.  Bogdanovich 
directed  the  classic  “TheLastPicture  Show” 
in  1971 ,  but  big-city  Nashville  is  a  long  way 
from  small-town  Texas. 


Kansas  City 

“Scaryman” 

Coterie  Two 
Sept.  3-4,  8  p.m. 

(call  816-756-3942  for  more  information) 

“Group  Therapy,  Murder  in  Session” 
Mystery  Capers  Dinner  Playhouse 
Sept.  3-4, 7:30  p.m. 

(call  816-454-SHOW  for  more  information) 

Ames 

Billy  Ray  Cyrus 
Hilton  Colliseum 
Sept.  5,  8  p.m. 

Tickets  $20 


Nightlife 


Kansas  City 

Improvised  Humor 
Kansas  City  Comedy  Sportz 
Sept.  2-3,  7:35  p.m.  . 

Greg  Ray  and  Brad  Nelson 
Stanford’s  Comedy  House 
Sept.  2-4,  9  p.m. 


Festivals 


Kansas  City 

10th  Annual  Spirit  Festival 
Celebrate  cultural  and  regional  arts, 
entertainment  and  food 
Musical  entertainment  by  B.B.  King, 

The  Doobie  Brothers,  The  Fabulous 
Thunderbirds  and  Eddie  Money. 

Sept.  3-6 
Tickets  -  $5 

(call  1-800-366-FEST  for  more  information) 


Off  the  Mark 


THE  ONLY  CERTAINTIES  IN  THIS  WORUD  ARE" 
DEATH ,TAYES  AND  ELVIS INRFRSONATDRS. 


by  Jim 


Or*  per jor>  showed 
»  V.tW 


aa 

o 

ra 

EJ 

a  *=» 

ra 

R3 

**jj,vt*v*t  xve 
)<>*  two 

otk«r  p«oplt  who 

w«nt  t*  ** 

I 

<*,  •&  u 


