Lillehammer  Baptists  go  for  the  gold  in  witness 


By  Mike  Creswefl 


LILLEHAMMER,  Norway 
(BP)  —  When  you  prepare  for  the 
Olympics,  you’ve  got  to  “go  for 
the  gold”  DO  matter  what  you  do. 

Just  ask  Roald  Juliussen,  pastor 
of  Lillehammer  B^tist  Quirch. 

Juliussen,  a  former  missionary 
to  Zaire,  attacked  the  Olympics 
with  the  same  passion  for  mimstry 
that  his  countiy’s  athletes  iqiplied 
to  training  for  skiing,  skating,  and 
other  winter  events. 

He  took  a  volunteer  evangelism 
team  from  his  church  to  the  1992 
Winter  Olympics  in  Albertville, 
France,  and  has  prepared  bis 
church  for  the  Lillehammer 
Games  even  longer  —  for  four 
years. 

“I  think  this  congregation  was. 
the  first  to  congratulate  the  com¬ 
mune  of  Lillehammer  for  win¬ 
ning”  the  right  to  play  host  to  the 
Games,  he  said  with  a  smile. 

It  was  a  sizable  undertaking  for 
the  76-member  congregation 
housed  in  an  attractive  building  a 
few  blocks  from  downtown  Lille- 
bammer.  The  church  threw  open 
its  doors  and  invited  Olympics 
fans  to  come  for  coffee  or  to  spe¬ 
cial  nightly  services,  all  under  the 
theme:  “Christ’s  Way  through 
Norway.” 

A  daily  coffeehouse  featured  a 
large-screen  TV  showing 
Olympics  events  nonstop.  Some 
days  the  church’s  young  people 
hauled  a  sled  equipped  with  a  cof¬ 
fee  urn  to  serve  shivering 
Olympics  fans  waiting  in  line  for 
events. 

Each  night  the  church  offered 
worship  services  with  special 
music,  dramas,  and  Bible-based 
messages.  A  15-member  Southern 
Baptist  evangelism  team  used  the 


church  as  its  home  base  through  a 
special  partnership  worked  out 
between  Juliussen  and  Southern 
Baptist  missionary  Fred  Dallas, 
the  team’s  coordinator. 

Dallas,  of  Friendswood,  Texas, 
has  been  in  Lilldiammer  since  last 
October  preparing  for  the 
Olympics  a^  has  preached  in  the 
church  almost  every  weekend  he 
has  been  in  town.  “Fred  has  an 
open  door  here.  He’s  a  man  who 
has  gifts  to  make  contacts  with 
people  outside  the  church,” 
Juliussen  explained  in  an  inter¬ 
view  in  Lillehammer. 

Dallas  emphasized  the  partner¬ 
ship  with  the  church  was  just  that 
—  a  good  working  arrangement 
that  pleased  everyone.  “We  really 
did  want  to  work  alongside  them, 
riot  just  use  their  facilities  and  go 
home,”  be  said. 

But  the  church  also  welcomed 
other  groups  that  came  to  minister 
during  the  Olympics:  French  evan- 
gelicids,  Norwegian  Baptist  youths 
and  seminary  students,  a  group 
from  Spurgeon’s  College  in  Lon¬ 
don,  and  others. 

The  diurch  base  gave  the  visit¬ 
ing  Southern  Baptist  team  another 
platform  for  mirustry.  Team  mem¬ 
bers  spent  many  hours  there  talk¬ 
ing  to  young  people  about  their 
faith,  lliey  sdso  found  themselves 
giving  ministry  advice  to  Norwe¬ 
gian  seminary  students  headed  to 
their  frrst  pastorates  in  coming 
months. 

Lillehammer  B<q>tists  also  took 
part  in  an  interdenominational 
church  committee  that  brought 
Baptists,  Pentecostals,  Orthodox, 
Reformed  believers,  Roman 
Catholics,  and  Salvation  Army 
members  together  with  the  pre¬ 


HOCKEY  HALL  WITNESSING  —  Southern  Baptist 
missionary  W^ne  Jenkins  explains  —  over  the  noise 
of  an  Olympic  ice  hockey  crowd  —  the  Olympics-relat¬ 
ed  evangelistic  pins  adorning  his  cap.  Jenkins  joined 
fellow  missionaries  and  volunteers  from  Norwt^  and 
the  United  States  in  an  evangelism  effort  in  Lilleham- 
mer,  Norway.  Olympic  pins  are  eagerly  collected 


spectators,  who  buy,  sell,  and  swap  them.  During  the 
hockey  match  between  Russia  and  Germany,  Jenkins 
and  a  fellow  missionary  used  the  pins  to  start  a  con¬ 
versation  with  a  German  family,  then  explained  the 
plan  of  salvation  and  gave  them  Christian  literature. 
(BP  photo  by  Mike  Creswell) 


dominant  Lutheran  Church,  the 
state  church  of  Norway. 

“We  hope  such  cooperation 
will  last  past  the  Olympics,”  said 
George  Hille,  a  retired  Lutheran 
bishop  and  chairman  of  the 
Olympic  Church  Ccmrnittee.  Hille 


visited  Lillehammer  Baptist 
Church  to  chat  with  Juliussen 
about  Baptist  work  and  looked  on 
approvingly  at  the  busy  comings 
and  goings  of  visitors. 

While  the  visiting  Southern 
Baptist  team  had  kind  words  for 


the  church’s  ministry,  they 
reserved  their  highest  praise  for 
Juliussen ’s  wife,  Solveig. 

She  really  went  for  &  gold  — 
taking  on  the  mammoth  task  of 
doing  their  laundry. 

Creswell  writes  for  FMB. 


Conservative  Christian  school  board  members  have  with¬ 
stood  a  recall  drive  in  Vista,  Calif.,  that  aimed  to  oust  them 
from  their  positions  of  influence  over  local  public  school  pol¬ 
icy  and  curricula. 

Of^xxients  of  school  board  president  Deidre  Holliday  and 
members  Joyce  Lee  and  John  Tyndall  failed  to  collect  the 
9,130  signatures  needed  to  proceed  with  a  recall  initiative  in 
the  San  Diego  suburb  of  76,000. 

The  Coalition  for  Mainstream  Education,  formed  to  head 
off  the  prospect  of  the  school  board  with  Christians  in  the 
majority,  promised  to  continue  the  recall  campaign. 

Leslie  Brazier,  spokesperson  for  a  group  that  organized  to 
fight  the  recall,  described  the  recall  effort  as  “religious  big¬ 
otry." 

Among  the  issues  stirring  controversy  in  the  school  district 
is  a  proposal  to  include  a  discussion  of  creationism  where 
appropriate  in  student  materials. 


Hons 


Bulgaria,  for  decades  an  offlcially-athiest,  communist 
satellite  of  the  defunct  Soviet  Union,  now  plans  to  crack 
down  on  “sects  and  cults”  that  will  probably  include  Bap¬ 
tists. 

Most  evangelical  churches  in  the  country  are  treated  as 
sects  and  are  widely  expected  to  fall  under  the  recently- 
passed  Bulgarian  Parliament  law  requiring  registration  with 
the  government. 

Orthodox  and  Catholic  churches  are  exempted,  as  are  Jew¬ 
ish  synagogues  and  Moslem  mosques.  Other  church  groups 
with  a  growing  preseiKe  in  the  country  were  not  iiKluded. 

Registration  could  be  denied  to  any  church  or  para-church 
organization  by  a  commission  set  up  under  the  law  to  review 
{qrplications. 

Nikolay  Nedelchev,  a  spokesman  for  the  Bulgarian  Evan¬ 
gelical  AUiaiKe  said,  “We  consider  this  meager  persecution 
compared  to  the  communists.”  ' 


hoohji^^B^h 

10  years  ago 


February  Cooperative  Program  contributions  by  Mississip¬ 
pi  Baptists  amounted  to  more  than  $1.4  million,  the  second 
largest  figure  in  state  convention  history.  The  largest  offer¬ 
ing  ever  given  was  in  June  1983  — just  over  $1.5  million. 


20  years  ago 


The  Baptist  Record  circulation  punches  through  the 
115,000  mark,  making  it  one  of  the  t(^  newsjoumals  in  the 
Southern  Btqrtist  Convention.  Neatly  80%  of  Mississippi's 
churches  participate  in  the  Every  Family  Plan. 


50  years  ago 


A  Baptist  piother,  stunned  to  discover  teenage  boys  leaving 
the  numerous  “peep  joints”  at  .the  Mississippi  State  Pair, 
calls  for  Christians  to  unite  in  a  campaign  to  rid  the  fair  of 
such  bad  influences  on  the  state’s  youths. 


Editor’s  Notfrooi^  .  i 

Election  at  Disneyworld 


TOPA'Y* 

PADlfM 

S6iraaD!l«iK 


The  electioD  of jmsideot  of  the  the  fundamental/conservative  Way  newspaper  and  other 

Southern  B;q>tist  Convention  has  group,  both  are  S6,  and  both  have  leptMters  were  a^ed  to  leave, 

been  a  huge  item  of  business  at  the  been  effective  pastors.  Wolfe's  James  Richards  of  Baton 
annual  meeting  for  the  past  IS  support  seems  to  be  snowballing  Rouge,  La.,  said  they  met  for  a 

years.  Plans  have  been  carefully  through  the  ranks.  Morris  Chap-  concentrated  time  of  prayer,  pray- 

made,  effectively  executed,  and  man,  SBQ  Executive  Committee  ing  for  revival  in  the  nation,  God’s 

the  desired  results  obtained.  The  [xesident,  requested  the  Executive  direction  for  the  SBC,  and  for 

Orlando  Convention  in  June  is  Committee  to  “pray  for  Bro.  Fred”  blessings  on  various  ministries, 

unlikely  to  be  different.  as  he  contemplates  the  SBC  presi-  Naturally,  then,  no  editor  would 

Jerry  Vines,  fonner  SBC  presi-  dency.  be  permitted  to  attend  a  prayer 

dent,  set  the  scene  for  the  1994  This  plea  was  a  bit  too  much  meeting.  Fred  Wolfe  did  attend 
Convention  at  the  most  recent  for  all  the  Executive  Committee  and  said,  “These  are  good  peofde,” 

First  Church,  Jacksonville,  Fla.,  members;  at  the  closing  session,  upon  an  early  departure. 

Annual  Pastors  School,  where  he  Florida  member  J.C.  Mitchell  The  convention  will  meet  in 
nominated  Fred  Wolfe  for  SBC  requested  the  group  to  pray  for  Jim  Henry’s  hometown.  There 

president.  The  school  has  been  the  Jim  Henry  during  the  agony  of  his  will  be  many  Floridians  present 

spawning  grounds  for  other  SBC  dedsioiL  They  all  hastily  agreed  to  but  signs  of  the  time  forecast  that 

presidents.  Wolfe,  Mobile  pastor  do  this.  Fred  Wolfe  will  be  the  next  SBC 

and  chairman  of  the  SBC  &ecu-  “I  have  not  sought,  rKM*  am  I  run-  president  I¥ed  has  served  the  fun- 
tive  Committee,  flew  in  to  Jack-  rung,”  W(^e  told  Baptist  Press.  damental/Sonservative  wing  well 

sonville  to  receive  his  endorse-  For  several  years  a  group  of  the  and  on  their  calendar  it  is  bis  time, 
ment.  There,  the  unofficial  Col-  fundamental/conseryatives  have  Jim  Heiuy  has  also  served  well 
lege  of  Cardinals  sent  up  the  met  for  fellowship  and  to  discuss  albeit  not  as  politically.  “I  would 

smoke  which  is  tantamount  to  ways  to  take  over  the  state  con-  feel  virtually  all  these  present 

election.  ventions.  They  did  so  again  Feb.  would  support  Wolfe,”  said 

Meanwhile,  down  in  Orlando,  23  in  a  Nash^e  hotel,  immedi-  Richards  at  the  Nashville  meeting, 

affable  pastor  Jim  Henry  cleared  ately  following  an  Executive  They  control  the  gavel  and  the 

his  throat  and  said  be  was  serious-  Committee  meeting.  The  press  votes.  Fred  Wolfe  will  be  the  next 

ly  considering  the  possibility  of  was  excluded.  In  fact.  Bob  Terry,  SBC  president.  Sorry  Jim,  maybe 

teing  a  candidate.  Both  men  are  in  editor  of  the  Missouri  Word  &  in  a  couple  of  years. 


The  Fragments 


m  by  making  it  easier  for  Americans 

I  I  ^1  III  HI  III  V|  III  themselves  and  each  other? 

Nothing. 

I  which  came,  a  man  and  several  high  At  Delta  State  University  the  (Drug)  legalization  experiments 
idiately  school  boys  began  sawing,  clean-  BSU  swung  into  action  as  Bill  worldwide  have  failed  miserably 
leets  of  ing,  stacking,  and  soon  were  on  Kirkpatrick  led  the  students  on  a  in  delivering  the  “benefit”  most 
ice  will  the  road  again.  Women  made  cof-  mission  trip  to  clean  houses,  often  touted  by  legalization  propo- 
agging  fee  and  sandwiches  for  the  utility  yards,  comfort  the  people,  and  nents  —  a  drop  in  violence  associ- 
e  oaks,  workers  and  took  to  the  road  to  share  spiritual  victories.  This  min-  ated  with  the  drug  trade. 

IS,  and  distribute  them.  istry  continues  even  as  T-shirts  Consider  a  few  of  the  failures 

i  scene  Jim  Didlake  and  those  hardy  proclaimed  the  individuals  to  have  other  countries  have  experienced: 
ttoll  in  men  on  the  Mississippi  Baptist  survived  the  “great  ice  storm  of  —  Heroin  addiction  has  sky- 

;ry  and  Disaster  Relief  truck  rolled  in  ’94”.  Ryan  Whitley,  pastor  of  Hrst  rocketed  in  Italy  since  passage  of  a 
.beared  from  shaken  California  and  bead-  Church  in  Cleveland  said,  “There  national  law  permitting  narcotics 
issippi  ed  for  the  Delta.  Food  was  being  was  more  contact  and  conversa-  for  personal  use.  Italy  has  the 
;  storm,  served  to  hungry  workers  in  tion  with  neighbors  than  we  had  largest  number  of  drug-related 
storms.  Qeveland  within  a  few  hours.  ever  erqrerieooed  before.  Sudden-  deaths  in  Western  Europe,  and 

he  dty.  Other  vans  owned  and  operated  ly,  we  had  time  for  each  other.”  estimates  indicate  that  more  than 

iving  a  by  the  WMU,  individual  churches.  It  was  not  all  Mr.  Good  Samari-  half  of  Italy’s  300,000  heroin 

sorrow,  and  their  volunteer  crews  are  a  tan.  Greed  and  generosity  walked  addicts  are  infect^  with  AIDS. 
Qeve-  real  asset  to  the  state  of  Mississip-  the  same  streets,  but  most  pet^le  —  The  price  of  cocaine 

and  the  pi.  First  Church,  Yazoo  Qty,  filled  were  so  busy  pulling  a  neighbor  dropped  40%  during  the  early 
voke  to  a  truck  with  blankets,  candles,  from  the  ditch  that  they  didn’t  1980’s  in  the  Bahamas.  Cocaine- 
lie  dti-  lamps,  and  batteries  and  rushed  it  notice.  related  admissions  to  the  only  psy- 

I.  Elec-  to  their  neighbors.  “A  friend  Now  the  heroic  are  about  gone,  ctuatric  clinic  went  from  0  to  300. 

ne  cold,  loveth  at  all  times,  and  a  brother  is  People  are  accustomed  to  the  tan-  —  After  softening  drug  laws, 
even  if  bom  for  adversity”  (Prov  17:17).  glea  wires  and  endless  limbs  in  Sweden  has  stiffened  its  laws 
Brookbayen,  sister  city  of  their  yards.  Chilling  days  of  again  in  response  to  high  abuse 
doors.  Qeveland,  bird  dump  trucks,  saws,  depression  and  despair,  more  rates.  (After  tougher  laws  were 
strewn  and  loaders  headed  north  soon  deadly  than  the  ice,  can  invade  the  reenacted,  the  number  of  teenagers 
igbags.  after  they  beard  of  conditions  city.  Pastors  and  church  members  who  tried  drugs  was  cut  in  half.) 
vs,  a^  there.  Meridian  pastors  sent  32  now  have  another  task.  Believe  —  Many  years  ago,  England 
be  pre-  workers  to  clean  yards.  Delta  me,  they  will  measure  up  to  it.  legalized  heroin  sales  at  pharma- 
ly  m>m  women  had  full  freezers  and  no  The  picture  I  will  long  remem-  cies.  The  number  of  heroin  users 

ford  to  electricity;  they  solved  two  prob-  ber  was  in  the  midst  of  tte  twisted  doubled,  and  imports  of  illegal 
Corinth,  lems  as  they  cooked  the  contents  power  lines  and  broken  pecan  heroin  increased  300%.  Scotland 
for  the  volunteers.  “We  ate  high  limbs,  there  arose  a  flock  of  yel-  Yard  had  to  increase  its  narcotics 
ring  in  on  the  hog  for  several  days,”  said  low  jonquils  all  testifying  that  squad  by  100%. 

Struck  a  weary  hne  worker.  spring  was  coming.  —  GH  But  we  don't  have  to  look 


Baptist  Racord  Advisory  Committee:  Deborah  Brunt.  Corinth, 
David  Raddin,  Yazoo  City;  Robert  Self,  Brookhaven;  Charles 
Dunagin,  Summit;  Horace  Kerr,  Brandon;  Grady  Collins.  Philadel¬ 
phia;  Teresa  Dickens,  secretary. 

Postmaster:  Send  changes  of  address  to  The  BAPTIST  REC¬ 
ORD,  P.O.  Box  530,  Jackaon,  MS  30205.  Send  r>sws,  communi¬ 
cation,  and  address  changes  to  The  Editor,  BAPTIST  RECORD, 
P.O.  Box  530,  Jackson,  MS  30205  (601)  068-3800. 


. Guy  Henderson 

.William  H.  Perkins  Jr. 
. Teresa  Dickens 


Associate  Editor 


Advertising/News  writer 


VOLUME  118  (ISSN-0005-5778)  NUMBERS 

Published  weekly  except  weeks  of  July  4  and  Christmas  by  the 
Mississippi  Baptist  Convention,  515  Mississippi  Street,  Jackson, 

MS  392oL  Sumcription  $7.35  a  year  payable  in  advance.  Second 
class  postage  paid  at  Jackson,  Mississippi.  The  Baptist  Record  is  LayouVNews  writer 
a  member  of  Southern  Baptist  Press  Association.  Editor  Emeritus . 


Editorial  Associate 


Rorence  Larrimore 


Circulation  Manager 


. Renee  Walley 

. Betty  Anne  Bailey 

Shannon  T.  Simpson 
. Don  McGregor 


Annuity  Board  offers  states  $35  mil  for  annuity  changes 


DALXAS  (BP)  —  /The  Aimu- 
ipr  Board  is  offering  state  conven¬ 
tions  $35  million  over  the  next 
five  years  if  they  will  approve 
changes  in  the  Church  Annuity 
Plan,  the  basic  r^irement  program 
the  board  administeis  for  the  con¬ 
vention’s  38,000  churches. 

Outlining  the  proposal  to 
Annuity  Board  trustees  during 
their  Feb.  28-March  1  meeting  in 
Dallas,  W.  Gordon  Hobgood  Jr., 
executive  vice  president  and  chief 
operating  officer,  said  if  the 
changes  are  approved  by  the  vari¬ 
ous  state  conventions,  the  Annuity 


Board  will  fond  the  states’  entire 
protection  section  —  the  amount 
the  states  provide  to  encourage 
ministers’  participation  and  which 
pays  for  supplemental  disability 
protection  ara  survivor  benefits. 

-  The  bill  for  that  is  $7  million 
annually.  The  Annuity  Board  will 
pay  it  for  the  next  five  years,  if  the 
states  ^rove  the  chants. 

The  state  conventions  will  be 
asked  to  consider  the  changes  this 
fall.  If  all  approve,  the  changes 
will  go  into  effect  Jan.  1,  Hobgood 
said. 

Under  the  proposed  amend¬ 


ments,  states  would  determine 
requirements  for  coverage  of  non- 
ministetial  employees.  The  current ' 
provision  is  thk  all  employees  of  a 
church  using  the  C3ki^  Aimuity 
Plan  automatically  are  covered  as 
of Jan.  1, 1998. 

The  dianges  would  provide  for 
withdrawals  of  funds  from  the 
plan  regardless  of  a  partic^ant’s 
age  if  te  or  she  discontinues  ser¬ 
vice.  Currently,  if  a  person  has 
$20,000  or  more  in  the  retirement 
plan,  it  cannot  be  withdrawn  until 
the  person  is  55. 

Another  change  would  permit 


THE  SECOND  FRONT  PAGE 


JOURNAL  OF  THE  MISSISSIPPI  BAPTIST  CONVENTION 


Thursday,  March  10, 1994 


PuMlshed  ^ce  1877 


Home  Mission  Board  plans 
to  combat  gambling  spread 


ATLANTA  (BP)  —  It’s  a  con¬ 
flict  between  morality  and  lifestyle 
increasingly  faced  by  Southern 
Bqjtist  cbmehes  across  the  country 
—  including  Mississippi  —  as  they 
learn  bow  to  minister  tb  their  com¬ 
munities  when  gambling  is  legal¬ 
ized. 

In  response  to  increased  calls 
fi'om  churches  in  regions  where 
gambling  has  been  legalized. 
Southern  Bsqjtist  ministers  gathered 
for  a  Feb.  2^Marcfa  2  ‘*thirA  tank” 
to  formulate  a  strategy  of  training 


and  awareness  for  churches  across 
the  Southern  B^mst  Convention. 

“We  see  the  need  to  help  our 
churdies  where  gambling  has  come 
to  impact  their  church  &ld,”  said 
Bill  Lee,  director  of  the  Home  Mis¬ 
sion  Board  special  ministries 
department,  ^onsor  of  the  meet¬ 
ing.  “Our  focus  is  to  provide  train¬ 
ing  and  materials  for  churches  fliat 
will  equ^  them  to  do  ministiy  with 
pet^le  affiliated  with  the  gaming 
industry.” 

Across  the  United  States  the 


ACTS  visionaries  observe 
system’s  10th  anniversary 


FORT  WORTH,  Texas  (BP)  — 
ACTS  (American  Christian  Tele¬ 
vision  System)  is  10  years  old  this 
year. 

^  The  faith  and  values  cable  tele¬ 
vision  service  of  die  SBC’s  Radio 
and  Television  Commission  was 
the  vision  of  Jimmy  AUen,  former 
president  of  die  RlVc  and  former 
president  of  the  Southern  Bqitist 
Convention.  He  guided  the  net¬ 
work  from  inception  ihrough  its 
formative  years. 

“Jimmy  Allen’s  vision  was  the 
cornerstone  for  what  ACTS  has 
become  over  the  past  10  years,” 
said  RTVC  President  Jack  John¬ 
son.  “What  began  as  a  small  cable 
service  reaching  a  few^ieqple  in  a 
limited  geographical  area  now 
teadbes  into  more  that).  20  million 
homes  nationwide.  We  must  now 
take  Jimmy  Allen’s  vision  into  the 
next  century,  using  all  the  new 
technology  that  becoines  available 
to  reach  people  with  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Ch^. ' 

“There  has  been  some  con¬ 
cern,”  said  Johnson,  “that  ACTS  is 
sharing  j  channel  ^ith  VISN 
members  who  are  not  evangeUcal 
Christians.  I  see  sharing  the  chan¬ 
nel  as  a  positive,  not  a  negative.  It 
enables  us  to  present  the  truth  of 


the  go^l  to  people  who  other¬ 
wise  might  not  have  opportunity  to 
hear  it  And  I  happen  to  believe 
that  when  the  truth  of  (Thrist  is 
presented,  the  truth  will  be  victori- 
ous  in  any  confrontation  with 
other  teadung.  The  shared  charmel 
arrangement  enables  os  to  more 
effectively  car^  out  the  Great 
Commissioo,  which  is  what  we  are 
about 

“ACTS  exists  as  'an 
autonomous  network.  VISN  has 
no  control  over  die  content  of  our 
programming  and  we  have  no  con¬ 
trol  over  theirs.  This  was  not  a 
merger,  blending,  marriage,  union, 
coalncence  or  linking  of  the  two 
networks.  This  was  simply  an 
arrangement  to  share  the  same 
cable  channeL” 

Johnson  said  ministiy  programs 
continue  to  be  the  most-watched 
on  die  channel,  and  monthly  tele¬ 
phone  calls  and  letters  ret^uesting 
spiritual  be4>  have  tri{ded  since  the 
onset  of  the  arrangement 

“The  TV  ministries  of  preach¬ 
ers  Frank  Pollard  (First  (^arefo 
Jadtson),  (Thailes  Stanley,  Ronnie 
Floyd,  Ed  Young,  Jaeje  Graham, 
Ron  Phillips,  and  Robert  Hamlin 
are  reaching  the  lost...  because  of 
the  shared  channel  agreement” 


partic^ants  to  borrow  fimn  their 
retirement  accounts,  aldioogh  the 
amount  has  not  been  determined. 

Paiticipaiks  in  the  old  Plan  A 
pro^am  would  be  permitted  to 
receive  a  reduced  retuement  bene¬ 
fit  at  age  55,  regardless  of  whether 
he  or  she  had  terminated  service 
with  all  churches  and  assodadons, 
which  is  the  current  provision. 

Other  changes  will  bring  the 
Church  Annuity  Flan  into  confor¬ 
mity  with  standard  provisions  of 
other  plans,  simplify  and  clarify  it, 
and  conform  to  administrative 
practice,  a  summary  stated. 

“We  are  proposing  it  because 


we  are  able  to  do  it  and  because  of 
die  ease  in  administration  that  it 
win  provide,”  Hobgood  sakL  “h  is 
very  difficult  now  to  have  peofde 
understand  the  difference  between 
the  church  plan  and  odier  corpo¬ 
rate  plans. 

“We  are  trying  to  make  the 
Church  Annuity  Pl^  more  under¬ 
standable  so  t^  people  can  feel 
better  about  it  and  abcHit  us.” 

Elected  as  new  trustee  chair¬ 
man  was  Richard  C.  Scott,  dean  of 
the  Hancamer  Schotfl  of  Business 
at  Baylor  University,  and  as  vice 
chairman,  S.A.  Adlrins,  pastor  of 
Forest  Church,  Forest. 


gaming  industry  is  spreading  like 
an  out  of  control  range  fire  wifo  48 
states  having  some  type  of  legal¬ 
ized  gaming. 

The  gaming  industry  includes: 
parimutuels  (horse  and  ^g  racing); 
fongo;  casinos;  riverboats;  lotteries; 
card  rooms;  ebaritaUe  games  (raf¬ 
fles  and  drawings);  Tndim  reserva¬ 
tions;  and  legd  bookmaking.  In 
1992  diere  were  proposals  and  ini¬ 
tiatives  in  45  states  to  begin  or 
expand  legalized  gaming  activity. 

Presently,  the  Home  Mission 
Board  has  sqrpointed  missionaries 
in  Atlantic  (5ity,  Las  Vegas,  Reno, 
Lake  Tahoe,  arid  I  .angWin,  Nev., 
where  the  gaming  industry  has 
beenptedominaia. 

However,  with  the  erqransioo  of 
gaming  along  the  Nfississqipi  River 
and  on  Indrim  reservations,  tradi¬ 
tional  Southern  BrqMist  church  set¬ 
tings  now  are  being  impacted  as 
never  befoie. 

Churches  in  Mississippi  and 
Louisiana,  feu  example,  are  esqieri- 
endng  the  onslaugfo  of  riverboats 
and  casinos.  Presratly,  69  dockside 
casinos  are  in  operation  along  die 
Mississippi  River  and  the  Golf 
Cfoast 

John  Ljunh-um,  a  fonner  pas¬ 
tor  and  now  duqilaBi  to  the  kfis- 
sissippi  Coast,  is  working  with 
enqilpyees  of  the  casinos  in  Gulf¬ 
port 

The  HMB  Special  Ministries 
Department  has  enlisted  Frank 
Stark  of  Stafford,  Mo.,  to  serve  as  a 
gaming  mitustty  coosultait. 

He  luu  served  as  a  Nfissioo  Ser¬ 
vice  Corps  volunteer  and  has  led 
the  Raoe^y  KGnistries,  a  ministry 
to  die  stock  car  racing  dreuiL 

Stark  will  be  assisting  field  per- 
soimel  in  gaming  impacted-com- 
munities. 

As  a  result  of  the  think  tank, 
several  conferences  are  being, 
planned  and  resources  written  to 
assist  churches  discover  how  they 
can  minister  in  a  gaming  impacted 
community. 


VBS  season  begins 


The  1994  Vacation  Bible  School  season  kicked  off  Feb.  26  with  the  train¬ 
ing  of  regional  VBS  leaders  at  the  Baptist  Building  in  Jackson.  The  39 
leaders  in  turn  led  training  for  349  associational  leaders  March  5  in  five 
locations  around  the  state.  Between  now  and  June,  those  workers  will 
train  local  church  leaders  in  preparation  for  the  summer  Bible  study  pro- 

z6  session  (pictured  left  to  right)  were  Jeff 

ion  Board; 


gram.  Leaders  for  the  Feb.  26  session  (pictured  left  to  right) 

Ingram,  Wiggins:  Linda  Reeves,  Mississippi  Baptist  Conventic 
Peggy  Britt,  Jacteon;  Larry^^lter,  MBCB,  coordinator,  Patti  Edwards, 
Meiidia  . . 


lian;  Keith  Wilkinson,  MBCB;  and 


kins,  MBCB.  The  train¬ 


ing  events  were  ^onsored  by  the  MBCB’s  Sunday  School  Department. 
(Photo  by  Teresa  Dickens) 

SBC  CP  gifts  are  over 
budget,  down  for  month 


NASHVILLE  ^P)  —  Southern 
Baptist  ConventioD  Cooperative 
Pr^ram  lece^  for  Frimuuy  were 
down  from  tte  previous  year  but 
the  year-to-date  totals  are  still  above 
the  budget  requirement,  aoemding 
to  Morris  H.  Cluqiman,  president 
and  chief  executive  officer  of  the 
SBC  Executive  Committee. 

February  1994  CP  totals  were 
$10,425,1(^  compared  to  Febniary 
19^  of  $10,9%,497,  a  decrease  of 
$571386  or  5.20%.  However,  the 
fiscal  year-to-date  totals  (for  five 
months)  were  .49%  above  the  sim¬ 
ilar  period  a  year  ago. 

YTD  figures  for  1993-94  stand 
at  $59,047,066  coiiq)aied  to  1992- 


93  of  $58,760304, 

Chapman  said  he  also  was 
encouraged  that  the  1993-94  YTD 
figures  are  2.52%  above  the  pro¬ 
gram  allocation  budget  require¬ 
ment  for  five  mondis;  $57397,806. 
The  $1,449359  overage  is  fiv  tie 
October  1^3  throng  February 
1994  budget  period.  The  monthly 
budget  requirement  is 
$11319361. 

Designated  gifts  for  the  month 
feU  slighUy,  $35,103,734  com¬ 
pared  to  a  year  ago  of  $35369335, 
.75%  decrease.  YTD  totals  for  des¬ 
ignated  gifts:  .$63^217,513  com¬ 
pared  to  the  prtvious  YTD  of 
$64,929399,  a  2.M%  decrease. 


State’s  Feb.  gifts  to  CP 
show  rise  over  last  year 


Mississippi  Baptists  gave 
$1,878,325  tliTOugh  the  Coopera¬ 
tive  Program  in  Rbruary,  accord¬ 
ing  to  Bill  Causey,  executive 
director-treasurer  of  the  Missis¬ 
sippi  B^tist  Convention  Board, 
which  disburses  the  funds. 

This  amount  is  $74,791  less 
than  that  given  in  February  of 
1993,  but  ^  two-month  total  for 


1994  of  $3,878,180  is  $3380  (or 
.09%)  more  than  that  given  in 
January  and  February  of  last 
year. 

The  pro  rata  budget  for  two 
months  of  1994  is  $3,742,000. 
This  means  that  giving  is 
$136,180  (or  3.64%)  more  than 
that  needed  to  reach  the  total 
budget  of  $22,452,000. 


I 


PAGE  4  BAPTIST  RECORD 


JERUSALEM  (BP)  —  South¬ 
ern  Baptist  workers  in  the  West 
Bank  and  Gaza  stayed  out  of 
sight  as  an  eerie  stillness  settled 
into  the  normally  bustling  Israeli- 
occupied  territories  Palestinian 
Arabs  claim  as  their  own. 

A  round-the-clock  curfew  — 
imposed  hours  after  a  Jewish  set¬ 
tler’s  massacre  of  Muslims  wor¬ 
shiping  in  a  Hebron  mosque  Feb. 
25  —  stilled  angry  Palestinians 
who  took  to  the  streets  in  protest. 

In  Gaza;  Southern  Baptist  rep- 


Hmndp.  Murdi  Mi  iS9i 


resentative  Paul  Lawrence  of 
Leeds,  Ala.,  stayed  inside  with 
his  wife,  Harriet,  and  two  chil¬ 
dren.  V 

They’re  joined  by  Glenn 
Glover  of  Birmingham,  Ala.,  a 
Southern  Baptist  International 
Service  Corps  worker  unable  to 
speak  Arabic  who  otherwise 
would  be  shut  in  alone. 

As  soon  as  they  knew  about  ^ 
the  massacre,  the  Lawrences 
stocked  up  on  groceries  in  antici¬ 
pation  of  a  curfew,  he  said. 


Mississippi  Roman’s  Missionary 

Union  Annual  Meeting 

March  18-19, 1994 

Broadmoor  Church,  Jackson 

THEME:  SERVE  IN  CHRISrS  NAME 

1  Friday 

1  10-10:50  a.fn.  Conferences  (each  will  be  repeated  two  additional  times)  I 

1  MINISTERING  AND  WITNESSING 

Laura  Pry  Allen  I 

1  PRAYER 

Jennifer  Dean  I 

1  WHATS  HAPPENING  WITH  WMU?  June  WhiUow  and  ManeanPatteraon 

11-1 1:50  a-m. 

Conferences  repeat 

12-1:15  p.m.  * 

Lunch  (on  your  own) 

1:15-205  p.m. 

Conferences  repeat 

2:15  p.m.  ^ 

Pie-session  music 

Group  praise 

Welcome 

Jim  Futral 

Prayer  calendar  and  prayer 

Martha  Ellen  Marler  ' 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

In  New  Orleans 

Loretta  Rivers 

In  Bolivia 

Cynthia  Martin 

Through  Witnessing  and  Ministering 

Laura  Allen 

Through  Change  in  WMU 

June  WhiUow 

Missionary  parents  recognition 

Betty  Dobbs 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

< 

Through  Prayer 

Jennifer  Dean 

Benediction 

Betty  Malone 

6:30  p.m.  Processional  of  flags  of  the  nations 

“Songs  for  die  Nations”  *  Praise,  Broadmoor  Church 

1  Group  praise 

1  Prayer 

Sharon  Neff  1 

1  HANDS  OF  PRAISE  CHOIR  Woodland  Hills  Church,  Jackson 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

In  China 

Kaye  Wilson 

Group  praise 

OfiCertpry  Prayer 

Betty  Breland 

09»iing 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

Through  Ministry  in  WMU 

June  Whitiow 

Testimonies 

• 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

Through  Prayer 

•  Jennifer  Dean 

Through  Ministry/Witness 

Laura  Allen 

Solo 

Betty  Jo  Lewis 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

In  Ghana 

Earl  Hewitt 

Prayer 

Linda  Donnell 

Saturday 

9:30  a.m. 

Group  praise 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

Through  Prayer 

Jennifer  Dean 

Prayer  Calendar  and  Prayer 

SyWe  Myers 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

State  WMU  Staff 

Group  praise 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

In  My  Own  Surroundings 

Laura  Allen 

Business 

Offertory  Prayer 

Joan  Tyler 

Offering 

Group  Praise 

Serve  in  Christ’s  Name 

Trudy  Johnson 

“My  Soul  Desire” 

Betty  Jo  Lewi^ 

Benediction 

Fae  Maroon 

Music:  Mary  Simmons,  June  McKee,. Betty  Jo  Lewis 

Southern  Baptists  cautious  as 
Palestinians’  anger  escalates 


Fellowship’s  “impact”  on  SBC 
is  $8.7  million,  spokesman  says 


NASHVILLE  (ABP)  —  An 
Executive  Committee  study  on 
“the  impact”  of  funds  coming  to 
Southern  Baptist  Convention 
agencies  through  the  Cot^rative 
Biq)tist  Fellowship  is  unneeded,  a 
leUowsbip  spcdcesperson  says. 

”1  think  the  ‘impact’  is  rather 
evident,”  said  David  Wilkin- 
son,  communications  coordi¬ 
nator  for  the  Atlanta-based 
alternative  missions  organiza¬ 
tion  for  Baptists  dissatisfied 
with  the  SBC’s  fundamental- 
conservative  leadership. 
“Over  the  past  three  years, 
the  FeUows^  has  forwarded 
more  than  $8,773,000  to  the 
work  of  the  agencies  and 
institutions  of  the  Southern 
Baptist  Convention.”  ___ 

The  stikly  was  ordered  at  ■■■ 
the  Executive  Committee’s  Feb. 
21-22  meeting  in  Nashville.  It  will 
include  a  recommendation  regard¬ 
ing  “the  acceptance  or  rejection” 
of  Fellowship  funds  by  SBC  enti¬ 
ties  and  is  to  be  reported  to  the 
Executive  Committee’s  business 
and  finance  subcommittee  at  a 
June  13  meeting  in  Orlando,'Fla., 
prior  to  the  June  14-16  SBC  annu¬ 
al  meeting. 

The  motion  was  adcmted  with¬ 
out  discussion  during  the  Execu¬ 
tive  Committee’s  closing  plenary 


sessicm.  It  reportedly  surfaced  in  a 
subcommittee  meeting,  where  it 
also  passed  with  little  discussion. 

Early  in  the  meeting,  officials 
making  routine  budget  requests  to 
the  Executive  Committee’s  pro¬ 
gram  and  budget  subcommittee 


Press  were  vague  about  the 
motion’s  specific  intent. 

Scott  Humphrey,  an  Alexandria, 
Va.,  layman  who  chairs  the  busi¬ 
ness  and  finance  subcommittee, 
said  the  motion  was  not  an  agenda 
item,  that  it  was  made  by  a  member 
of  the  subcpmmittee,*seconded,  and 
passed  unanimously.  “I  think 

Over  the  past  three  yearsy  the  pur^se  was  that  pe^ie 

^  were  asking  questions  about 

Fellowship  has  forwarded  more  what  was  l^pening  with  the 
than  $8,733,000  to  the  work  of  the 

agencUs  and  institutions  the  sl^tKcoUvfl^oo 
Southern  Baptist  Convention.”  record  to  that  effect.  Home 

— David  Wilkinson 
CBF  Comm.  Dir. 


their  respective  agencies  were 
recipients  of  any  Fellowship 
funds.  Several  reporters  tracking 
the  development  of  the  SBC’s 
1994-95  operating  budget  heard 
no  further  mention  of  the  Fellow¬ 
ship. 

Meanwhile,  the  issue  emerged 
unnoticed  by  the  press  in  the  big¬ 
ness  and  finance  subcommittee 
during  a  review  of  denominational 
giving  patterns. 

Executive  Committee  members 
approached  by  Associated  Baptist 


Mission  Board  President 
Larry  Lewis  told  Baptist  state 
paper  editors  last  month  that 
refusing  Fellowship  money 
would  be  an  “insult”  to  indi¬ 
vidual  Baptists  who  choose  to  sup¬ 
port  SBC  work  in  a  non-traditional 
manner. 

Lewis  told  editors  be  planned 
to  meet  with  administrators  of  the 
SBC  Foreign  Mission  Board  and 
Executive  Committee  the  follow¬ 
ing  week  in  Nashville  to  discuss 
how  to  handle  funds  from  the  Fel¬ 
lowship.  Asked  there  about  the 
meeting,  Lewis  said  “it  was  a 
good  dialogue  time”  but  that  the 
leaders  “didn’t  come  to  any  spe¬ 
cific  conclusions.” 


BSSB  eliminates  trade  discount  for 
Lifeway  books,  Convention  Press 


NASHVILLE  (BP)  —  The 
Baptist  Sunday  School  Board’s 
church  growth  group  has 
announced  Convention  Press  and 
Lifeway  products  will  no  longer 
be  sold  at  discourt  to  retail  outlets 
other  than  Bap^  Book  Stores  and 
Lifeway  Christian  Stores. 

The  effective  date  for  Conven¬ 
tion  Press  will  be  April  1;  for  Life- 
way,  May  1.  The  action  marks  a 
return  to  the  sales  policy  Conven¬ 
tion  Press  followed  prior  to  1988. 

The  change  will  not  affect 
church  literature,  whidi  will  con¬ 
tinue  to  be  sold  direct  to  churches 
and  individuals.  Broadman  &  Hol¬ 
man  products,  produced  by  the 
board’s  trade  and  retail  markets 
group,  will  continue  to  be  pro¬ 
duced  primarily  for  sale  through 
trade  stores. 

The  decision  will  affect 
approximately  9.5%  or  $1.9  mil¬ 
lion  of  sales  of  the  two  product 
lines.  In  1993,  about  52%  or 
$10.2  million  of  the  $19.6  million 
an^al  sales  of  the  two  lines  was 
generated  through  the  board’s  1- 
800  customer  service  center  and 
about  38%  or  $7.6  million 
through  the  64-store  Baptist  Book 
Store  chain. 

“The  primary  reason  for  this 
very  difficult  decision  is  that  Life¬ 
way  and  Convention  Press  materi¬ 
als  are  priced  to  sell  direct  to  cus¬ 
tomers,  not  at  the  percentages  dis¬ 
count  trade  outlets  customarily 
receive,”  said  Gene  Mims,  vice 
president  of  the  church  growth 
group.  “By  selling  to  retail  stores 
at  discounts,  we  couldn’t  cover  the 


cost  of  the  material.  Our  other 
option  would  be  to  raise  prices, 
but  we  don’t  believe  this  is  in  our 
best  interest  or  that  of  the  churches 
and  individuals  we  serve.”^ 

For  example,  Mims  ^d  the 
popular  Lifeway  discipleship 
course  book,  “Experiencing  God,’’ 
sells  for  $9.95.  If  priced  to  sell  at 


discount  through  independent 
trade  outlets,  the  price  wmild  need 
to  be  sqjpToximately  $15. 

“Our  continuing  commitment  is 
to  provide  the  highest  value  in 
materials  at  the  lowest  possible 
cost,”  Mims  said.  “A^e  regret  any 
inconvenience  caused  by  our  need 
to  make  this  change.” 


WMU  leader  is  MC  guest 

Dellanna  W.  O’Brien  (second  from  left)  of  Birmingham,  Ala.,  executive 
director  of  Woman’s  Missionary  Union,  was  recently  guest  lecturer  in  the 
Evangelism  Lecture  Series  sponsored  by  the  Department  of  Religion  and 
Philosophy  at  Mississippi  College.  Pictured  with  O’Brien,  from  left,  are 
Don  Gann,  BSU  director,  O’Brien;  Roger  Patterson,  a  senior  religion  major 
from  Houston,  Texas;  and  Loyd  Allen,  head  of  the  Department  of  Religion 
and  Philosophy.  (MC  photo  by  Jesse  Worley) 


Wrap-up... 

CLC  seminar  speakers  warn 
of  family,  cultural  breakdown 


OKLAHOMA  CITY  (BP)  —  Executive  Director  Richard  Land  dent  Paige  Patterson  said  families 
The  breakdown  of  American  fami-  said,  “The  family  has  almost  must  rear  their  children  in  the 
ly  life  can  be  reversed  by  a  con-  ceased  to  function  in  a  nurturing,  “fear  of  the  Lord.” 

certed  emphasis  on  the  role  of  the  moralizing  way  in  major  segments  “Parents  must  store  the  Word 

husband  and  father  in  the  tradi-  of  society.”  of  the  Lord  in  their  hearts  and 

tional  two-parent  family,  where  “We  must  not  only  reawaken  express  profound  love  for  God,” 
husbands  and  wives  share  mutual  intact  families,  revive  intact  fami-  he  said. 

affection  and  respect  and  where  lies,”  he  said,  but  Christians  must  Several  speakers  said  pomogra- 
children  are  disciplined  in  love,  reconstruct  within  communities  of  phy  and  homosexuality  are  two  of 
speakers  to  the  Christian  Life  believers  a  biblical  understanding  many  ways  Satan  is  attacking  fam- 
Commission’s  “Family  in  Crisis”  of  the  family  as  God  meant  it  to  ilies  today. 

1994  annual  seminar  said.  fiinctioa  Every  Christian  needs  to  be 

At  the  same  time,  speaker  after  “There  is  a  way  back  from  this  involved  in  the  fight  against 
speaker  criticized  the  elements  in  moral  s^yss,  but  it  is  only  found  in  pornography,  said  Jerry  Kirk, 
American  society  today  "they  say  God’s  Word  and  God’s  institution  founder  and  president  of  the 
are  destroying  the  family,  such  as  of  families,”  Land  said.  National  Coalition  Against 

sex  outside  marriage,  drug  abuse.  Baptist  Sunday  School  Board  Pomogr^hy  (N-CAP). 
pornography,  homosexuahty,  and  President  James  T.  Dn^r  Jr.  said  “Pornography  is  anti-child, 
educational  institutions,  govern-  the  hope  of  America  lies  in  return-  anti-woman,  anti-man,  anti-mar- 
ment  entities,  and  media  outlets  ing  to  biblical  principles  of  the  riage,  anti-family,  anti-church,  atxl 
that  enable  or  glorify  such  £a^y.  anti-God,  and  it  is  filling  Ameri- 

immoral  behavior.  “TTie  crowning  achievement  of  ca,”  he  said.  Kirk,  a  former  Pres- 

Over  and  over  speakers  said  the  God  was  the  creation  of  the  fami-  byterian  Church,  U.S. A.,  pastor, 
traditional  family  of  a  man  and  ly,”  he  said.  “When  sin  entered  die  called  for  a  united  Christian  effort 
woman  with  children  is  God’s  world,  things  changed,  but  God  to  eliminate  child  pornography 
ideal  presented  in  the  Bible.  did  not  abandon  his  plan  for  the  and  all  illegal  pornography  in 

For  the  first  time  since  the  CLC  family.  It  was  his  plan  for  a  uni-  America, 

began  holding  annual  seminars,  fied  world.”  Americans  can  win  the  war 

the  1994  meeting  was  held  in  a  Draper  said  authority,  affection,  against  pornography,  but  they  will 
local  church.  First  Church,  Del  and  admonition  are  the  principles  have  to  do  it  one  batde  at  a  time, 
City,  Okla.  The  seminar  drew  the  God  laid  down  for  a  unified  fami-  said  Oklahcxna  City  District  Attor- 
second  largest  registration  of  any  ly.  ney  Bob  Macy,  also  a  Presbyter- 

CLC  seminar  ever,  746,  and  was  Drs^r  said  the  tr^edy  today  is  ian. 

the  largest  CLC  seminar  in  more  that  Clmstian  morality  suid  ethics  “My  goal  has  been  and  will 
than  a  decade.  is  often  no  different  fiom  that  of  always  be  to  make  Oklahoma  Qty 

“The  family  is  the  most  basic  the  world.  “Marriage  is  an  exclu-  the  safest  and  most  decent  city  in 
unit  of  society,”  said  Southern  sive  union.  It  excludes  a  sexual  this  nation,  a  place  where  families 
Seminary  President  R.  Albert  relationship  with  anyone  other  can  raise  their  children  in  safety 
Mohler  Jr.  “God  intended  it  that  than  one’s  spouse.  It  is  never  right  and  a  moral  climate,”  Macy  said, 
way.”  to  compromise  God’s  standards.”  “In  order  to  achieve  that  goal, 

Christian  Life  Commission  Southeastern  Seminary  Presi-  something  had  to  be  done  about 

Pastor  leaving  church 

.-i.  ^  ill  porrtpgraphy-rclated  business- 

thflt  was  on«tpn  hv  SKI  >  es  and  prostitutes.  His  efforts  are 

said  to  have  lowered  the  rate  of 
sexually  related  crime  in  the  city 
and  saved  the  taxpayers  millions 
of  dollars. 

In  his  keynote  address  to  the 
seminar,  former  U.S.  drug  czar 
William  Bennett  said  happiness 
“has  moved  ahead  of  commitment 
in  modem  American  thinking.” 
During  the  196()s  and  1970s  some 
Americans  embraced  the  belief 
they  “were  not  only  entitled  to  the 
pursuit  of  hiqjpiness,  we  were  enti¬ 
tled,  as  a  right,  to  happiness 
itself,”  he  said. 

Bennett,  a  Roman  Catholic, 
said  he  believes  the  United  States 
is  on  the  “edge  of  a  moral,  reli¬ 
gious  revolution”  which  will  re¬ 
establish  atKl  reinvigorate  the  fam¬ 
ily  in  this  country. 


Vestal,  Scoper  td  address 
CBF  meeting  on  March  26 


The  Cooperative  Baptist  Fel-  Scoper,  a  member  of  First 
lowship  of  Mississippi  will  hold  Church,  Laurel,  is  a  fc^er  mem- 
its  spring  meeting  on  March  26, 10  ber  of  Mississippi  Wbihan’s  Mis- 

■  sionary  Union 
executive  board 
and  past  presi¬ 
dent  of  the 
national  Missis¬ 
sippi  College 
alumni  associa¬ 
tion. 

Registratiap 
for  the  CBF 
-  meeting  begins 

Scoixf  at  9:30  a.m.  A 

dutch-treat  lunch  will  be  provided 
at  the  church.  For  more  informa¬ 
tion,  call  First,  Meridian,  at  (601) 
484-4600,  or  Gene  Triggs  at  (601) 
969-7502. 


CHAPEL  HILL,  N.C.  (ABP)  a  marriage-type  ceremony  for  a 
—  The  pastor  of  a  church  kicked  gay  couple, 
out  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Con-  Although  neither,  church 
vention  in  1992  for  licensing  a  requested  to  have  messengers  at 
homosexual  to  the  ministry  has  the  SBC,  it  marked  the  first-time  a 
said  she  will  resign  the  pastorate,  church  bad  evec  been  excluded 
citing  repercussions  from  the  finm  the  nearly  150-year-old  con- 
episode.  vention  for  doctrin^  deviation. 

Linda  Jordan,  %nior  pastor  of  Because  of  the  episode,  the  SBC 
Olin  T.  Binkley  Church,  Chapel  amended  its  constitution  to 
Hill,  N.C.,  mailed  a  letter  in  late  expressly  exclude  from  member- 
February  to  the  congregation  ship  any  church  which  acts  to 
announcing  she  would  step  down  affirm,  approve,  or  endorse  homo- 
Aug.  3 1 .  sexual  behavior. 

Nearly  all  of  Jordan’s  four-year  The  two  churches  were  also 
pastorate  has  been  tumultuous,  the  voted  out  of  the  Baptist  Conven- 
Raleigh  News  &  Observer  don  of  North  Carolina, 
reported  March  2.  When  the  “It  goes  without  saying  that  the 
church  voted  to  call  her  in  May  last  four  years  have  been  strenuous 
1990  as  its  first  woman  pastor,  ones  for  the  Binkley  con^gadon 
several  members  left.  and  for  me,”  Jordan  said.  “We 

A  decision  in  April  1992  to  have  dealt  with  some  very  difficult 
license  John  Blevins,  an  openly  and  controversial  issues.” 
gay  Duke  Divinity  School  student,  “Nevertheless,”  she  said, 
created  another  split,  with  seven  of  “change  demands  a  high  price, 
Binkley’s  20  deacons  resigning  in  especi^y  of  those  in  leadership.” 
protest  and  a  number  of  longdme  Jordan  told  the  qpngregation 
members  deserdng  their  pews.  she  was  not  being  fired,  but  that 

That  decision  gained  national  she  felt  the  “need  to  make  a 
attendon  when  the  Southern  Bap-  change.” 
dst  Convendon  voted  in  1992  not  “I  have  felt  supported  by  the 
to  recognize  messengers  from  majority  of  the  membership.  I  was 
Binkley  and  another  church  in  not  asked  to  resign,  nor  has  there 
North  Carolina  —  Pullen  Memori-  been  undue  pressure  to  force  my 
al  Church,  Raleigh  —  which  held  resignadon,”  she  said. 


a.m.  to  2  p.m., 
at  First  Church, 

Meridian.  Fea- 
tured  speakers 
be  Daniel 
Vest^  of  Hous- 
Texas,  atnl 
Dell  Scoper  of 
Laurel. 

Vestal,  pastor 
of  Houston’s 
T  a  1 1  0  w  o  o  d 

Church,  served  as  the  first  moder¬ 
ator  of  the  nadonal  CBF.  Prior  to 
the  formadon  of  CBF,  Vestal  ran 
for  the  presidency  of  the  Southern 
Baptist  Convendon. 


SBC  registration 
cards  available 


Southern  Baptist  Convention 
registradon  cards  for  the  conven¬ 
don  which  meets  in  Orlando,  Fla., 
June  14-16,  are  available  from  the 
office  of  Bill  Causey,  executive 
director-treasurer,  Mississippi 
Bapdst  Convendon  Board. 

For  more  information,  call 
(601)%8-3800,ext.  3801. 


ta  “can  lady”  walks,  gathers 
student  summer  missions 


Frances  Wong  stands  behind  the  counter  in  the  kitchen  of  the  Deita 
State  University  Baptist  Student  center.  She  is  a  reguiar  voiunteer  who 
serves  iunches  to  students  on  Wednesdays.  (Photo  by  Tim  Nichoias) 


HMB  director  says 
black  communities 
ripe  for  the  harvest 


First  person... 

Jose’s  health  due  to  gifts  of  many 


fn  an  article  by  Tim  Nicholas,  child  life  specialist  given  in  a  set-  who  helped  make  arrangements 
published  in  The  Baptist  Record  ting  in  which  there  were  cultural  for  his  transfer  to  Mississippi 
Feb.  24,  we  told  of  Jose  Mendoza-  and  language  barriers  is  what  Methodist  Rehabilitation  Center 
Oseguera,  the  young  Honduran  gave  a  child  who  was  negr  death  on  Feb.  28.  On  that  day,  he  left 
boy  who  has  been  the  guest  of  when  be  arrived  the  will  to  live.  behind  not  doctors,  nurses,  and 
Mississippi  Baptist  Medical  Cen-  As  his  condition  improved,  therapists,  but  ftiends  who  just 
ter  and  the  Brotherhood  Depart-  they  went  above  and  beyond  the  h^pen  to  bear  those  titles  at 
ment  of  the  Mississippi  Baptist  call  of  duty  by  taking  him  to  their  MBMC. 

Conygfttion  Board  since  last  sum-  homes  for  meals,  to  the  zoo,  to  The  hospital  staff  most  closely 
mer.  The  following  item  is  written  the  movies,  to  the  fitness  center  connected  to  Jose’s  care  prayed 
by  Vich  McCall  ^Clinton,  Jose’s  to  swim,  out  for  a  drive  to  see  the  with  me  as  I  sought  a  Spanisb- 
Stateside  guardian,  in  response  to  Christmas  lights,  to  name  but  a  speaking  family  to  care  for  him 
that  article.  few.  ,  after  his  discharge  from  the  bos- 

It  was  emotionally  draining  for  pital  until  the  time  of  his  return  to 
As  the  legal  guardian  for  Jose  the  physical  therapy  staff  to  per-  Honduras.  The  Lord  provided,  as 
Mendoza-Oseguera,  it  has  been  form  diuly  treatmeitts  which  were  he  always  does,  the  very  best, 
my  privilege  to  work  with  some  very  painful  for  Jose,  but  tiiey  did  Elizabeth  and  Larry  Payne  of 
wonderful  pecmle.  I  wish  to  thank  so  with  professionalism  and  true  Clinton,  who  have  very  close  ties 
the  churches  t^  have  prayed  for  compassion.  Patient  transporta-  to  Honduras  and  who  have  for 
Jose  and  all  of  the  ministers  and  tion  services  provided  wonderful  many  years  kept  Honduran  chil- 
church  members  who  so  faithful-  care  as  they  took  Jose  from  one  dren  needing  medical  care  in  their 
ly  visited  him.  I  ha^e  greatly  department  to  the  other  each  day.  home,  will  be  Jose’s  primary 
appreciated  all  of  the  bilingual  The  surgical,  pre-  and  post-anes-  caretakers  when  he  leaves  the 
interpreters  who  have  given  so  ihesia  services  provided  excellent  ho^ital.  He  is  very  hippy  about 
much  of  their  time  to  help  Jose  care.  this  arrangement, 

communicate.  The  dietary  department  put  It  has  been  my  privilege  to 

I  particularly  wish  to  express  forth  extra  effort  to  try  to  prepare  serve  in  missions  endeavors  in 
my  gratitude  to  God’s  wonderful  meals  that  would  be  pleasing  to  several  foreign  countries,  but  I 
servants  who  are  affiliated  with  Jose’s  Honduran  palate,  and  can  honestly  say  I  have  receiv^ 
the  Mississippi  Baptist  Medical  assisted  with  supplements  to  no  greater  blessing  in  my  min- 
Center.  I  have  seen  no  better  care  immove  his  nutritio^  status.  istry  to  others  than  through  my 
provided  anywhere  than  I  saw  The  flexibility  of  the  pharma-  relationship  with  Jose, 
provided  for  Jose  at  MBMC.  The  cy  staff  allowed  a  Spanish-speak-  I  shall  be  forever  grateful  to 
untold  hours  of  care  provided  by  ing  pharmacist  to  be  available  to  Greg  Fiser  and  Paul  Harrell 
a  team  of  medical  and  dental  pe-  interpret  for  Jose  when  needed.  (Brotherhood  Department  direc- 
cialists,  coordinated  by  Greg  The  chaplain  was  a  friend  to  Jose,  tor)  for  allowing  me  to  be  part  of 
Fiser,  was  delivered  with  kind-  visited  him  often,  and  was  avail-  the  team  that  brought  Jose  to 
ness  arxl  compassion.  able  whenever  ne^ed.  Jackson.  And,  1  shall  always  be 

Beginning  with  administration.  The  social  service  department  thankful  to  the  special  people  at 

1  say  tfank  you  to  each  hospital  was  involved  from  the  very  first  MBMC  for  their  witness  to  him 
department  which  had  a  part  in  day,  and  always  had  Jose’s  best  in  word  and  in  action.  Without 
caring  for  Jose’s  needs.  The  pro-  interests  at  heart.  It  was  the  social  them  and  their  love,  Jose  may  not 
fessional  yet  tender  loving  care  of  worker  who  placed  weekly  calls  have  lived  to  hear  about  his  new 
the  pediatric  nursing  staff  and  to  Jose’s  mother,  and  it  was  she  friend,  Jesus. 


,Start  Churches 


IN  Underchurched 
Communities 


cities. 

‘These  17  metropolitan  areas 
hold  the  potential  for  a  growth 
erqrlosioo  in  the  Southern  Brqitist 
Convention  between  now  and  the 
turn  of  the  century,”  be  said. 

The  number  of  new  African- 
American  Southern  Baptist 
churches  pew  from  79  in  1991  to 
1 17  in  19%  and  274  last  year. 

To  reach  African  Americans, 
Southern  Baptists  must  also 
appoint  African  Americans  to 
more  positions  of  leadership  in  the 
denomination,  McRierson  said. 

“Although  there  dite  several 
positions  to  be  filled,  at  present 
there  are  only  three  state  (hreaors 


CeUbrih  Church  SturHugf 

StaYt-a-Church 
Commitment  Sunday 
March  27,  1994 


HOME  MISSION  BOARD,  SBC 
For  more  mfrrmation.  call  /  tOO  634  2462 


HouseTops  is  a  supplement  to  the  Baptist  Record  and  is  produced-by  the  Mississippi  Baptist  Convention  Board 


March  1 0,  1 994 


MISSION  ACCOMPLISHED! 

By  Joe  Anderson 
Pastor,  FBC,  Boyle 

A  new  church  is 
born  and  there  is  an 
air  of  excitement 
about  what  God  is 
doing  in  Zimbabwe. 

The  name  of  the 
new  church  is 
Mutiwawora  Baptist 
Church.  It  was 
named  after  a  mountain  that  is  a  short  distance  from 
the  church.  There  were  over  400  professions  of  faith 
with  1 64  of  them  being  made  in  the  church.  If  people 
will  only  hear  the  call,  there  is  the  strong  possibility 
that  three  more  churches  could  come  into  being  in  the 
area  that  we  were  in.  How  shall  they  hear  if  no  one 
goes  to  tell? 

We  had  many  exciting  experiences  while  we  were 
there.  There  were  two  who  were  demon  possessed. 
One  we  could  not  help  because,  even  though  they 
professed  Christ  as  their  savioj,  they  were  unwilling,  or 
too  frightened,  to  remove  some  of  the  satanic  items  the 
-  local  witch  doctor-left  in  their  home.  The  other  pos¬ 
session  we  were  able  to  do  something  about.  Tim 
Cearly,  our  missionary  there,  and  myself  prayed  and 
Jesus  cast  out  the  demon.  It  was  marvelous  to  see  our 
Lord  work  with  such  power. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  experiences  we  had  was 
with  a  woman  who  had  been  a  prostitute  on  the  high¬ 
way  between  Mozambique  and  Harare,  Zimbabwe. 
She  sold  herself  to  the  truck  drivers  that  came  on  this 
highway.  Now  she  has  given  herself  to  Jesus  as  Lord 
and  He  is  using  her  in  a  mighty  way.  I  don't  know 
how  much  longer  she  will  live  on  this  earth  for  this 
highway  is  the  route  that  AIDS  is  being  carried  into  the 
country.  I  do  know  that  she  will  live  eternally  with 
Jesus.  That  is  special.  We  need  to  pray  for  her  for  now 
she  is  troubled  as  to  how  she  will  support  her  three 
children.  The  new  church  is  already  looking  for  a  way 
for  her  to  earn  an  income  to  support  herself  and  her 
family.  There  was  a  wonderful  out|X)uring  of  love  for 
her. 

On  Monday  the  chief  of  the  tribe  came  to  Christ.  He  is 
the  chief  of  over  4000  p>eople.  His  name  is  Kawere 
Chimhanda.  His  salvation  will  almost  guarantee  the 
future  success  of  tl^e  church.  He  could  not  be  bap¬ 
tized  on  the  Sunday  we  left  for  he  had  to  hear  a  cus¬ 
tody  case.  He  tokj  us  that  he  would  be  baptized  the 
next  baptism.  He  is  a  man  of  his  word.  Barry 

MISSION,  cont.  on  back  page 


Mississippi  Conference  on 

PREACHING  &  WORSHIP 

CALVARY  BAPTIST  CHURCH 

Starliville 

APRIL  25-26,  1994 


To  {Hxmde  an  in-d^pdi  Woriodiq)  cm  BU>Ie  preaching,  focusing  on  preparation 
mat  delivery  •>  practicai  he^s  for  wc^y  sermon  preparation. 


charge  for  this  conference. 


^4;onsuItant  in  the  pastoral  section  of  the  Church 

f  department.  Baptist  Sunday  School  Board 
1  pastor.  Colonial  Heights  Baptist  Church,  Jackson 
I,  minister  of  music.  Highland  B^tist  Church,  Meridian 
I,  pastor.  First  Baptist  Church,  Norman,  Oklahoma 
,  First  Baptist  Church,  Vancleave 


F  INSIGHT  AND  INSPIRATION 

xg  ”  "How  to  Focus  Your  Preaching  " 

"The  Impact  of  Sermons  on  People ’s  Lives  ” 
"The  Impact  of  the  Preacher  on  the  Sermon 
“Communicating  the  Message  ” 

'^lace  for  a 


"The  Supernatural  In\ 
"Preaching  in  the  90  \ 
"Preacher,  What  Do  ] 
"Finding  The  Sermori 
"The  New  Testament  j 
Dangerous  Messa\ 


WORKSHOP  TITLE 

(REPEATED  THREE  TIMES) 

\ing  on  the  Life  and  Ministry  of  Christ” 

"Ways  to  Enrich  Worship”  ’ 

\e  Run  When  You  Haven't  Taken  Batting  Practice 


To  register  contact : 
CHURCH  ADMINISTRA 


IINISTRIES  DEPARTMENT  •  (601 )  %8-3800, 


PROORAM 

HIOHLIOHTS 

*  How  tp  organize  your  people  for  a 

building  program 

*  Expert  presentations  on  Master  Planning  and  role  of 

space  in  church  growth 

*  Planning  for  uiuque  needs  of  worship  and  education 

1 

*  Personalized  consultation  for  the  unique  programs  of 

your  church 

*  Fund  raising  and  financing 

*  Workshops  for  specialized  situations 


March  16-31, 1994 


Sunday 

Monday 

Tuesday  1 

_ 1 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 

Saturday 

She  was  3  1/2,  spending  a  week  with  us,  her  grandparents.  A  stomach  zrirus  hit  her  in 
the  night,  and  I  was  rocking  her  in  the  darkened,  still-quiet  den.  The  chair  squeaked 
regularly.  Finally,  she  squirmed  and  said,  "Mammy,  1  wish  it  wouldn't  keep  saying 
that."  By  now,  you  prcmably  wish  we  wouldn't  keep  saying  these  dismal,  shocking 
facts  about  our  country.  But  they  are  true;  this  is  the  world  that  children  and  grand¬ 
children  of  all  ages  must  live  with  -  unless  Christians  change  it  through  xvork  like  the 
Home  Mission  Board  does.  Again,  statistics  come  from  IFM  DIMENSION. 
—  ‘Wilda  Fancher 

for  the  nearly  2.7  mil¬ 
lion  children  reported 
to  be  abused  or 
neglected  in  1991,  and 
for  their  counterparts 
in  the  years  since 

16 

for  the  almost  10  mil¬ 
lion  latchkey  children 
in  our  country 

17 

for  the  estimated  179 
million  persons  in  our 
country  who  are 
unsav^ 

18 

for  those  affected  by 
the  more  than  3,000 
new  cases  of  AIDS 
diagnosed  in  our 
country  each  month 

19 

for  the  seven  to  ten 
million  Americans 
who  will  carry  AIDS 
by  the  year  2000  (only 
six  years  from  now?) 

20  * 

for  the  people  affected 
by  the  deaths  of  the  30 
million  Americans  who 
will  already  be  dead  or 
dying  from  AIDS  by  the 
year  2000  (surely  not 
only  six  years 
from  now) 

for  those  affected  by 
growing  numbers  of 
teei\age  suicide 

22 

for  the  average  televi¬ 
sion  viewer  in 

America  who  will  see 
an  estimated  10,000 
murders  by  the  time 
he's  21 

23 

for  the  one  of  four  girls 
who  will  be  sexually 
abused  by  someone 
within  her  family  by 
age  18 

24 

for  those  affected  by 
the  reported  53,000 
people  who  die  each 
year  as  a  result  of  sec¬ 
ond-hand  smoke 

25 

for  the  7.6  percent  of 
America's  population 
who  receive  food 
stamps 

26 

on  a  brighter  note,  for 

for  churches  as  they 

for  service  organiza- 

for  the  ability  of  the 

for  those  who  need  the 

Christians  who  care 

plan  local  ways  of 

tions  and  industries 

ones  who  give  the  help 

help  to  be  able  to 

Prayer  Miiustry  Office 

and  are  giving  time  and 

helping  with  many  of 

which  work  with 

to  be  able  to  minister 

understand  that  it 

P.O.Box  530 

money  to  help  one-to- 

these  problems 

churches  and  home 

in  the  name  of  Christ 

comes  because  of 

Jackson,  MS  39205-0530 

one 

27 

28 

missionaries  to  meet 
'needs 

29 

30 

God's  love,  in  the  name 
of  Christ 

31 

Phone:  968-3800,  Ext.  3904 

Mississippi  PrayerLine  1-80O-787-PRAY 

MISSISSIPPI 

OH  U  R  O  H 
FAOl  LITI  ES 

W  O  R  K  S' H  0  P 

April  12, 1994 
RIDGECREST  BAPTIST  CHURCH 

Madison,  Mississippi 
7469  Old  Canton  Road 


*  Choose  your  workshop  schedule 

*  VENDORS  OF  CHURCH  FURNISHINGS  AND 

SERVICES 


SOHEDULE 

S:30  a.m.  -  REGISTRATION 
WELCOME 

9ma.m.  -  noon  -  WORKSHOPS 
noon  -  m  p.m.  -  LUNCH  AT  THE  CHURCH 
1.-00  -  3:15  p.m.  -  WORKSHOPS 
3:15  p.m.  -  APPOINTMENTS  scheduled  at 
concluskmof  woilcshop  (F(»^  appointment 
widi  program  perstmnel,  call  Matt  Buckles.) 


E  -  $10.00  per  person 
(fee  includes  lunch) 


REGISTRATION-  To  register  please 
contact  Matt  Buckles  Or  Vonda  Clouter 
at  (601)  968-3800 


Sponsored  by 


Church  Building  Services 

Mississippi  Baptist 


Convention  Board 


Mississippi  Baptist 
Secretaries'  Conterence 

CAMP  GARAYWA 

April  18-19,  T994 

44 /^ne  of  the  finest  opportunities  for  pastors 
V^and  staff  to  receive  more  help  is  to 
encourage  their  secretaries  to  attend  the 
Secretaries'  Conferences  and  be  a  member  of 
the  MBSA.  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  supfiort- 
ing  and  being  a  part  of  the  ministry  and  training 
for  secretaries  from  the  very  beginning.  I  know 
what  continuing  training  has  done  to  assist  sec¬ 
retaries  in  being  more  proficient  in  their  profes¬ 
sion.  The  conferences  also  provide  secretaries 
opportunities  for  spiritual  enrichment  and  per¬ 
sonal  growth,  so  they  will  have  a  more  mean¬ 
ingful  life." 

— /.  C.  RBNPROE 

Director  of  missions,  Rankin  Association 


To  register 
contact  Anne 
Martin  at 
(601)968-3800, 
ext  3905 


MULTIHOUSING 
MINISTRY  ' 
CONFERENCE 


April  30,  1994 

9:00  a.m.  -  noon  | 

Hinds-Madison  * 

Baptist  Association  Building  | 
6530  Dogwood  View  Parkway 
Jackson,  Mississippi  39213  I 


Alta  Woods  Baptist  Church,  Jackson,  Miss 
March  28-31,1994 


SENIOR  ADULT  CONFERENCES 

•  Growing  Older,  Growing  Wiser 

•  Grandparenting  By  Grace 

•  Watchman  Prayer  Ministry 

•  Master  Your  Money 

•  Experiencing  God/Fresh  Encounter 

•  The  Mind  of  Christ 


Helping  Families  Meet  Needs  Oues. 
Evening) 

First  Place  (Tues.  Evening) 

TeamKID  (Tues.  Evening) 

Beginning  a  Single  Adult  Ministry  (Tues 
Evening) 


‘^OUR  MULTWOUSING 
MISSION 

Led  by:  .  $:  ] 

Vivian  Hite  tk " 


DAY  TIME  WORKSHOPS 

•  MasterLife  (Mon.  -  Thurs.) 

•  MasterBuilder  (Mon.  -  Tues.) 

•  Experiencing  God  (Mon.  -  Wed.) 

•  Entrepreneurial  Church  Leadership  (Tues, 
afternoon) 

•  LIFE  Support  (Tues.  -  Thurs.) 

•  Christian  Sex  Education  ( Tues.  -  Wed. 
Morning) 

•  The  Bible  Speaks  to  End  Times  (Wed.) 

•  Fresh  Encounter  (Mon.  -  Wed.) 

•  DiscipleYbuth  (Wed.  and  Thurs.) 

•  The  Mind  of  Christ  (Thurs.) 


Multihousir^^nsultant  ■  PB 
Missouri  Convention  - 


EVENING  WORKSHOPS 

(Mon.  evening  topics  repeated  Tues.  afternoon  and 
Tues.  evening  topics  repeated  Wed.  afternoon) 

•  Overview  of  LIFE  and  LIFE  Supp)ort  (Mon. 
evening  -  no  cost) 

•  Single  Parenting  (Mon.  Evening) 

•  Ingathering:  Reclaiming  Inactive  Church 
Members  (Mon.  Evening) 

•  Master  Your  Money  (Mon.  Evening) 

•  New  Member  Training  (Mon.  Evening) 

•  Leading  Preschoolers  in  Discipleship  (Tues 
Evening) 

•  Leading  Children  in  Discipleship  (Tues. 
Evening) 

•  Leading  Youth  in  Discipleship  (Tues. 
Evening) 

•  Leading  Adults  in  Discipleship  (Tues. 
Evening) 


^  how-to  conferei 


For'eranff^al  infot  Wlrotf  'imout 
diverse  needs  of  multihousing  resjd«(H 
Neron  Smith,  State  Consultant,  Mission? 
and  Associational  Administration,  MBCB 
968-3800,  Ext.  3961 . 


To  register  or  learn  rrxsre  about  this  conference 
contact  Robins  Nichols  at  (601)  968-3800,  ext. 
3888. 


REGISTRATION  DEADUNE:  MARCH  25,  1994 


Conference  Set  for  Church  Sunday  School  Directors  and  Church  Outreach  Directors 

The  1 994  Church  Sunday  School  Directors  and  Church  Outreach  Directors  Seminar 
has  been  set  for  April  15-16,  1994,  This  Is  listed  irvthe  Mississippi  Baptist  Diary  as 
the  Key  Leader  Seminar.  The  program  will  begin  with  registration  at  6:30  p.m.  on 
Friday  and  conclude  at  1 2:1 5  p.m.  on  Saturday. 

The  1993  Key  Leader  Seminar  had  a  record  attendance  in  the  history  of  this  event. 

(Xer  1(X)  individuals  attended  the  event. 

The  1994  Seminar  will  incorporate  sev€(ral  suggestions  from  those  who  came  in 
1993.  There  will  be  a  conference  for  ChunA  Outreach  Directors,  Church  Sunday 

_ 1  _ * _  ^  m  I  I  M  ^  •  ■ 


Key  Leader  Seminar  for  Church  Sunday  School  Directors 
and  Church  Outreach  Directors 

April  15-16,  1994 
Baptist  Building 


School  Directors  with  two  or  more  years  experience  and  Church  Sunday  School 
Directs  with  under  two  years  experience.  There  will  also  be  more  time  given  for 
dialogue  and  discussion. 

There  will  be  a  $7.00  registration  fee  to  cover  the  cost  of  conference  materials. 
There  will  also  be  a  Baptist  Book  Store  display.  Items  for  sale  at  the  Book  Store  dis¬ 
play  will  include  Outreach  materials,  Sunday  School  Director's  Handbook,  Sunday 
School  Planning  materials,  Worker  Enlistment  materials,  etc.  • 

Those  interested  in  this  Seminar  should  fill  out  the  registration  form  and  return  it  to 


j  Name: _ 

!  Address: 

1 

I  City,  State  Zip: _ 

i  Daytime  phone  number:( 

I 

j  Church  name: 

I I  am  the 


®  Church  Sunday  School  Director 
^  Church  Outreach  Director 


CHURCH  WEEKDAY 
EDUCATION  MINISTRIES  , 

By  Barbara  Brown 
Preschool  Minister 
First  Baptist  Church,  Madison 

Is  yours  a  church  overflowing 
with  young  families  and  their  ^ 

children  or  one  with  a  small  ^ 

number  of  boys  and  girls? 

Either  way — you  may  be  a 
prime  candidate  for  new  or 
additional  Weekday  Education 
Ministries. 

• 

Designed  to  attract,  reach,  and 
meet  the  needs  of  families  in., 
your  community,  weekday 
ministries  include  a  variety  of 
programs  which  provide  care, 
nurture,  guidance,  and  teaching  for  children.  These 
programs  are  not  designed  to  replace  any  church  pro¬ 
grams,  but  rather  to  provide  parents  the  opportunity  for 
work  and/or  leisure  time. 

Weekday  Ministries  include: 

Mother's  Day  Out — ^Moms  are  provided  one  or  two  half 
or  whole  days  per  week  for  a  nominal  fee.  Moms  are 
then  free  to  clean,  shop,  or  participate  in  Bible  study 
during  that  time  while.preschoolers  enjoy  peer  fellow¬ 
ship. 

Preschool  Kindergarten — A  half-day  program  designed 
to  meet  developmental  needs  of  preschoolers;  usually 
includes  ages  3-5  years. 

Daycare — Employed  parents  are  provided  full  day,  five- 
day-a-week  childcare.  Stale  licensing  procedures  must 
be  followed.  A  wide  range  of  ages  is  usually  included. 

I 

Before  and  After  School  Care — Provided  for  children  in 
elementary  school.  This  program  is  usually  an  exten¬ 
sion  of  daycare.  Often,  though,  before  and  after  school 
care  is  an  independent  program  providing  transporta¬ 
tion  to  and  from  school,  snacks  as  needed,  supervision, 
and  even  tutoring. 

Summer  Day  Camp — This  program  extends  the  Before- 
and-After  School  Day  Care  program  for  elementary 
children  whose  parents  are  employed.  One  or  more 
thenr>es  may  be  developed  as  children  enjoy  field  trips, 
Bible  teaching,  games,  outside  play,  art,  music,  etc.  A 
summer  musical  may  even  be  prepared  and  presented. 

Parent's  Night  Out — This  ministry  is  provided,  usually 
on  a  cost  recovery  basis,  for  parents  to  have  the  oppor¬ 
tunity  to  spend  time  alone  while  at  the  same  time  know 
their  children  are  having  fun  and  learning  Bible  truths. 

Kid's  Club — Planned  for  one  afternoon  per  week  or 
Saturday  mornings.  This  program  gives  boys  and  girls 
an  opportunity  for  Christian  growth  and  fellowship. 
(TeamKIDs,  produced  by  the  Discipleship  Training 
Department,  is  the  perfect  material  for  this  ministry.) 

Weekday  ministry  programs  provide  exciting  ways  to 
reach  many  unchurched  people  for  the  Lord. 


FM*F«T«H 


A»N*N*U*A*L 


Mississippi  College 
MINISTERS'  GOLF  TOURNAMENT 
August  8&9, 1994 

The  fifth  annual  Mississippi 
College  Ministers’  Golf  'hurnament 
has  been  scheduled  for  August  8  and 
9,  1994.  All  ordained  ministers, 
including  DOMs,  Pastors,  Youth, 
Music,  Education,  and  BSU  Directors 
are  invited.  Registration  will  be  at 
1:00  p.m.  on  August  8  at  Live  Oaks 
Golf  Club.  Tee  time  is  1:30.  The  entry 
fee  is  $50.00.  This  includes  green 
fees  and  cart  for  two  days,  lunch  on 
August  9  and  refreshments.  Format 
will  be  two-man  scramble.  Pick  your 
own  partner.  Pre-registration  is 
required.  Please  call  925-3263  if  you 
have  questions. 


ENTRY  FORM 

Registration  deadline  is  July  29,  1994 


Stale _ Zip _ Daytime  f 


Handicap _ Partner^ 


VOLUNTEER  &  SMALL  CHURCH 

yOUTH  MINISTERS 

CONFERENCE 


MISSION,  cont.  from  front  page 

Robinson  told  us  that  it  was  not  unusual  for  peo¬ 
ple  to  be  forced  to  wait  several  days  to  see  the 
chief.  On  our  arrival,  he  invited  us  in  and  he  and 
his  wife  were  wonderfully  saved.  He  then 
brought  the  elders  of  the  tribe  to  see  us  and  we 
were  able  to  plant  the  seed  of  the  Gospel  with 
them.  » 

Henry  Blackaby  said  that  "God  is  at  work  all 
around  us.  We  need  to  see  what  He  is  doing  and 
get  involved."  God  is  truly  at  work  in  Zimbabwe 
and  for  Christians  who  want  to  experience  the 
power  of  the  Living  God,4hey  need  to  join  Him 
there.  They  won't  necessarily  find  comfort  but 
they  will  find  those  who  are  starving  for  the  Word 
and  who  are  open  to  the  Gospel  and  they  will 
experience  the  presence  of  the  Living  Lord  as 
never  before. 

I  want  to  thank  the  team  of  Carl  and  Martha 
Holland  for  going  with  me  and  also  the  Merrits 
who  were  most  gracious  and  helpful.  Also  to 
missionaries  Barry  Robinson  and  Tim  Cearley  and 
their  families.  They  were  wonderful  and  helpful. 
By  the  way,  Tim  will  be  moving  soon  for  his  work 
permit  is  not  being  renewed.  Our  missionary  staff 
there  will  be  very  short  soon  for  the  government 
is  not  renewing  the  work  permits.  I  think  that 
they  will  only  allow  them  to  stay  for  ten  years 
now.  This  makes  the  need  for  volunteers  even 
more  urgent  for  soon  the  doors  may  be  shut  com¬ 
pletely. 

Thanks  also  to  Mississippi  Baptists  for  allowing 
me  to  be  a  part  of  the  partnership  team  in  foreign 
missions.  Ya'II  are  doing  a  great  job  and  our  love 
and  prayers  are  with  you. 


.Handicap - Entry  fee  Enchstd  mis  ONo 


F\is»BaP^^.30p.n'- 

Fo«PBaP^oV*^oo.^ 


This  conference  Is  for  volunteer  and  part-time  persorts  who' work  wtth  youth  ministry  in  the 
smaller  membership  church. 

Partlcip>ants  will  discover  basic  principles  that  can  lead  to  a  balanced,  comprehensive, 
and  effective  youth  ministry  in  the  smaller  membership  church. 

There  is  no  cost  for  attending  this  conference. 

For  more  information  please  call  (601)  968-38(XI,  ext.  3906. 


Letters  to  the  editor 


and  for  that  I  commend  him.  Jesus  himself  saicTrhat  he 
The  only  thing  that  I  hold  came  to  mini.ster,  not  to  be  min- 
against  him  is  his  belief  that  the  istered  to  (Matt.  20:28;  Mark 
pastor  should  be  a  ruler.  I  do  not  10:43).  Since  Jesus  was  a  faith- 
believe  that  a  pastor  should  be  a  ful  servant  when  be  was  on  the 
ruler.  He  is  to  be  a  servant  of  earth,  then  preachers  should  be 
God  and  a  shepherd  of  the  flock  faithfol  servants  of  God  as  well, 
that  he  pastors.  They  should  not  act  like  kings, 

Peter  wrote  that  pastors  as  if  they  own  the  churches  they 
should  feed  the  flock  of  God  pastor.  Christ  is  the  head  of  the 
willingly  and  with  ready  minds,  church  and  the  chief  shepherd. 
They  should  not  be  “lords  over  The  pastor  is  merely  an  under- 
God’s  heritage,  but  examples  to  shepterd  and  an  overseer.  He  is 
the  flock”  (1  Pet.  5:2-3).  to  preach  the  Word  and  be  con- 

,Paul  wrote  that  a  pastor  is  to  sistent  in  prayer.  If  he  is  faith- 
be  “blameless,  as  the  steward  of  ful,  then  he  will  hear  Jesus  say 
God;  not  self-willed”  (Titus  to  him,  “Well  done,  thou  good 
1:7).  Paul,  in  writing  his  epis-  and  faithful  servant.” 
ties,  referr^  to  himself  as  a  ser-  Kevin  Waller 
vant  of  God,  never  as  a  ruler.  Bude 


was  that  be  only  used  one  chap¬ 
ter  in  the  Bible  to  ^ak  on,  and 
that  was  Matthew,  (jbapter  1. 

Only  God  and  not  man  could 
have  arranged  the  numbering 
structure  of  the  Bible  to  prove 
his  Word. 

Kimble  Hembree 
Hattiesburg 


Follow  Paulas  lead 


Editor: 

I  have  great  respect  and 
admiration  for  W.A.  Criswell 
because  of  his  many  years  of 
service.  Criswell  believes  in  the 
infallibility  of  the  Bible  and  in 
other  fundamentals  of  our  faith. 


Southern  Baptist 
Convention  (1993) 


Miss.  Baptist 
Convention  (1993) 


Churches 


Baptisms 


Membership  15,404,621 


Receipts  $5,384,132,020 

(total) 

Missions  $76 1 ,639,840 

(total  expenditures) 


Arrows  indicate  %  change  from  previous  year 

Source:  Uniform  Church  letters  as  repotted 
to  the  Baptist  Sunday  School  Board 


UNION  BAFnST 
CHURCH 

Pica^m^,  Mississippi 

is  offering 

$500,000 

First  Mortgage  Bonds 

5.0%  to  8.0%  Intmst 

Bonds  dated  March  15, 

Fdt  prospectus,  call  or  write: 

Nationwide  Bond,  Incx 
460  Briarwood  Drive, -Suite  515 
Jackson,  MS  39206 
601-94^500»800-748-8877 

■nounoeaent  im  nekhtr  «  offer  4p  mH  nor  a  wlkienioii  of  aa  offer  to  bay.  Ihe  offer  ia 
01^  ^  pro^ieclaa.  AH  bonk  ax  offend  «  face  vahn,  plaa  aocned  iBfcnat,  adfiect  to 


Alta  Woods  Church,  Jackson,  hosts 
March  28-31  discipleship  institute 

An  extravaganza  training  in  10:10xm.,  11:15  ajn..  and  1  pjn.  evening  (repeated  Tuesday)  are 
various  Discqdesfa^  Training  and  A  nDt  at  2:15  pjiL,  M  by  ardbor  Single  Parenting,  Master  Your 
fianfly  mkistry  tools  will  be  bdd  Irene  Endicott,  will  end  the  day.  Money,  New  Member  Training, 
Mar^  2S-31  at  Alta  Woods  Coat  is  $10  per  penon,  indodittg  TeamKid,  ud  Adventure  Week. 
Chordi,  Jadcson.  Hntiried  “Insti-  famdh.  Cassra  offered  Tuesday  evening 

tnte  for  Quistian  I>iac4>lesli9,**  Multi-day  courses,  with  cost  Wednesday)  me  First 

the  fonr-di^  event  is  sponsored  where  andicable,  are:  MamerLife,  Place,  Helping  FamUies  Meet 
the  bfissisqjpi  Baptist  Conveotion  ^tol.-Tnm.,  $95;  MasteAnilder,  Needs,  and  Beginniim/Bnhancing 
Board  Discipleship  and  Family  Mon.-Tues.,  $75;  Biqieriencing  Your  Senior  A^t  buiistry.  Ses- 
Kfiniatry  Dnartmeot  God,  Moa-Tbes.,  $25;  LIFE  Sup-  sioos  on  leading  various  ^  levels 

Leaden  tor  the  institute  will  be  TOit,  Mon.-Tues.,  $35;  Fresh  also  will  be  offered  Tuesday 
consultants  from  the  Biqrtist  Sun-  Encounter,  Tues.-Wed.,  $35;  evening 
day  Scfaod  Board,  induing  T.W.  Clwtian  Sex  Education,  Toes.-  Registratioa,  including  irayment 
H^  Ho(^  Ji^  Johnston,  Wed.;  Entrepreneurial  Church  where  applicable,  for  all  classes 
J.  Da^  Carter,  Job^  Jones,  Don  Leadership,  Tues.  afternoon,  are  doe  by  March  25.  Reservadoos 
Atkaoson,  and  Todd  Ndson.  repeated  at  nraht;  The  Bible  for  Senior  Aduh  Day  and  Wednes- 

The  institute  schedule  will  Speaks  to  End  Tunes,  Wed.,  8:30  day  night  supper  at  Alta  Woods 
indode  moU-day  courses,  as  wdl  a.m.  to  4  p.m.;  DiscipleYooth,  Church  also  should  be  made  by 
as  one-hour  dames.  The  program  Wed.-T  ors.,  $45;  MasterLife  Match  25.  All  other  meals  are  “on 
also  features  a  Monday  evening  Refireb  ,  Wed.  1:30  pjn.-Thurs.,  yourowa” 

Disci(deshq>  Rally  and  Wednesday  noon;  ad  The  Mind  of  Christ,  .  Make  checks  payable  to  the 
evening  prayer  service  led  by  Tfaurs'l  )  a.m.-3  p.m.,  $15.  Mississippi  Baptist  Convention 

Hunt  A  *  ifferent  selection  of  one-  Board  and  mail  to  Discipleship  and 

A  qiedal  taught  dL  the  event  hou  session  classes  will  be  Family  Ministry  Depaittnent,  P.O. 
will  be  Senim  Addt  Day,  sched-  off'  zed  Monday  and  Tuesday  Box  530,  Jadcs^  39205.  For 
uled  for  March  31.  Registration  evc  ungs.  Each  evening  series  wiU  additional  informatioo,  write  to  the 
begins  at  8:30  a.m.  with  relecdve  be  repeated  the  following  after-  above  address  or  call  Robin 
conferences  offered  at  9  a.m.,  noon.  Topics  offered  Monilay  Nichds  at  (601)  968-3800. 


staff  Changes 


PAGE  8  BAPTIST  RECOB ^  -  Thursday.  Mardi  10. 1994 

Revival  Dates 


Liberty,  Flowjud  (5.199 
Li.  eland  Dr.  Maxh  15-16;  ser- 
vi<  es,  7  p.ni  F’.ink  Pollard, 
Ja  kson,  evangelic*;  John  Cofer, 
pa  for. 

rlolcomb  tGrenada):  March 
1?  20;  youth  revival;  services,  7 
p.  .  nightly  and  1 1  a.in.  on  Sun- 
d;  .Ron  e  Robinson,  director, 
B  list  Craldren’s  Village,  evan- 
gi  St;  Booby  Irvin,  music;  Randy 
A  .iey,  pastor. 

Gooden  Lake,  Beizoni: 
M  irch  20-23;  7  p.m.  nightly; 
Chuck  King,  Davis  Road,  Jack- 
sor ,  evangelist;  Shelly  and  Irene 
Jc  nston,  Jackson,  music;  Bill 
Hudso^  pa^or. 

Puckett  (Rankin):  March  20- 
r|;  Sunday,  11  a.m.  and  6:45 
/m.;  Mon.-Wed.,  7  p.m.;  Odus 
/ackson,  Morton,  evangelist; 
,'Bemie  Parker,  Columbia,  music; 
Barry  Ward,  pastor. 

Immanuel,  Natchez:  March 
20-23;  Sunday,  1 1  a.m.,  lunch  at 
noon,  and  1:30  p.m.;  Mon.-Wed., 
7  p.m.;  Max  Price,  Raleigh,  evan¬ 
gelist;  Butch  Hosea,  Natchez, 
music;  Jim  Hill,  pastor. 

First,  Calhoun  City:  March 
20-23;  Sunday,  11  a.m.  anch? 
p.m.;  Mon.-Wed.,  7  a.m.  ah^!7 


p.m.;  Dean  Register,  Hattiesburg, 
evangelist;  Tommy  Lane,  Coldwa- 
ter,  music;  Antbony  Kay,  pastor. 

HoUandale  (Washington): 
March  20-23;  services,  7  a.m.  and 
7  p.m.;  Buford  Easley,  New 
Orleans,  evangelist;  John  and 
Lisa  McDaniels,  Memphis, - 
music;  Greg  Williams,  pastor. 

Emmanuel,  Grenada:  March 
20-23;  services,  noon  and  7  p.m.; 
Bobby  Douglas,  Columbus,  evan¬ 
gelist;  Price  Harris,  Shreveport, 
La.,  music;  Qarence  Cooper  Jr., 
pastor. 

Bethlehem,  Laurel;  Oakland 
Grove,  Laurel:  simultaneously; 
March  20-23;  Sunday,  Bethle¬ 
hem,  10:30  a.m.  and  6  p.m.  and 
Oakland  Grove,  11  a.m.  and  6 
p.m.;  Mon.-Wed.,  Bethlehem  and 
Oakland  Grove,  7  p.m.  nightly; 
dinner  served  in  Fellowship  Hall, 
Sunday,  noon;  Dave  Walton  and 
Don  Stanley,  both  of  Spartan¬ 
burg,  S.C.,  evangelists;  Bethle¬ 
hem,  Jimmy  Knight,  Laurel, 
music;  Oakland  Grove,  Ron 
Hamilton,  Laurel,  music;  Bethle¬ 
hem,  Valton  Douglas,  pastor; 
Oakland  Grove,  Jimmy  J.  Jones, 
pastor. 

Central,  Golden:  March  27- 
30;  services,  10:30  a.m.  and  7 


p.m.;  John  Walker,  Winona, 
evangelist;  Judy  Humphries,  (Cen¬ 
tral,  music;  Ralph  Culp,  pastor. 

Harmony,  Crystal  Springs: 
March  27-30;  Sunday,  8:30  a.m., 
11  a.m.,  and  7  p.m.;  Mon.-Wed., 
7  p.m.;  Dale  Patterson,  Pensacola, 
Fla.,  evangelist;  Lewis  OSwalt, 
Clinton,  music;  Clark  Stewart, 
pastor. 

Agricola  (George):  March  27- 
30;  Sunday,  11  a.m.  and  6:30 
p.m.;  Mon.-Wed.,  7  p.m.;  Ed 
Lacy,  evangelist;  Bruce  Worrell 
Jr.,  pastor. 

Phillipston  (Leflore):  March 
27-30;  Sunday,  6:30  p.m.;  Mon.- 
Wed.,  7  p.m.;  Ralph  Cain,  Mathi- 
son,  evangelist;  Lester  M.  Jeffers, 
pastor. 

Mt.  Gilead,  Meridian:  April 
10-15;  Sunday,  10:45  a.m.  arid  6 
p.m.;  Mon.-Fri.,  7  p.m.;  Albert 
Wilkerson,  Memphis,  evangelist; 
Max  Burris,  Meridian,  music;  Jim 
Smith,  pastor. 

Midway,  Newton:  Youth  re¬ 
vival;  March  12-13;  Saturday, 
youth  fellowship,  6  p.m.;  wor¬ 
ship,  7:30  p.m.;  Sunday,  11  a.m. 
and  7  p.m.;  Chuck  Provine,  Ft. 
Worth,  Texas,  evangelist;  Wayne 
Miley,  pastor. 


Virginia  F ellowship  meets  for  first  time 


RICHMOND,  Va.  (ABP) 
Virginia  Baptists  uncomfortable 
with  the  more  conservative  direc¬ 
tion  taken  by  the  Southern  Baptist 
Convention  since  1979  can  find  a 
new  home  in  the  Cooperative  B:^- 
tist  Fellowship,  fakers  said  at  tte 
first  meeting  of  the  CBF’s  state 
organiza^doa 

“In  the  Cooperative  Baptist  Fel¬ 
lowship  we  have  a  fellowship  of 
missions-minded  people  who  are 
seeking  the  will  of  God  for  our 
lives,”  said  layman  Jan  Levy  of 
Radford.  His  comments  were 
echoed  by  other  program  headlin¬ 
ers  during  the  Feb.  25-26  meeting 
at  Second  Church,  Richmond,  Vx 

The  two-day  meeting  was  the 
first  formal  gathering  of  the  Vir¬ 
ginia  Cooperative  Baptist  Fellow¬ 
ship,  the  state  affiliate  of  the  three- 
year-old  national  organization  of 
moderates.  Earlier  meetings  have 
been  informal  and  unstructured. 

During  a  brief  business  session 
a  constitution  and  bylaws  were 
adopted  and  budget  needs  present¬ 
ed.  Butthe  focus  of  the  more  than 
400  participants  was  on  the  mis¬ 
sion  work  of  the  Fellowship  and  its 
distuiction  from  trends  in  the  SBC. 

“The  message  that  needs  to  go 
out  to  Baptist  churches  is:  to  what 
degree  can  we  be  faithhil  to  Christ 
and  yet  compromise  convictions? 
To  what  degree  can  we  corrupt  the 
gospel  to  which  we’ve  committed 
ourselves?”  said  Keith  Parks,  mis¬ 
sions  coordinator  of  the  national 
Fellowship. 

Being  a  “fiee  and  faithful”  Biqr- 
tist  does  not  mean  freedom  to  dis¬ 
regard  absolutes,  said  Parks.  “It 
really  means  you  have  so  mastered 
the  absolutes  that  you  are  free  in 


the  way  you  express  them. 

“This  freedom  frees  us  from 
human  institutions  that  would 
define  how  we  worship  God  and 
how  we  relate  to  God,”  he  said. 

The  Fellowship  is  “another 
alternative  which  gives  our  people 
hope,”  said  TlKxnas  McCann,  pas¬ 
tor  of  First  Church,  Martinsville, 
Va.,  noting  that  moderate  Southern 
B^tists  are  “ugly  stepchildren  in  a 


family  that  is  no  longer  ours.” 

“Tlie  Southern  Baptist  Conven¬ 
tion  as  I  have  known  and  loved  it 
is  dead  —  it  is  gone  —  it  has 
passed  from  our  time  and  will  not 
return,”  said  James  Baucom  Jr., 
pastOT  of  Warsaw  (Vx)  Clnircb. 

“But  I’m  not  v^ing  to  wander 
aimlessly  anymore....  I  long  for  a 
land  where  Baptists  are  free  and 
faithful,”  be  said. 


CLASSIFIED  ADS 

RATE:  50  cents  per  word,  $5  minimum.  Cash  wWi  order  except  on  contract 
advertising.  Include  name,  addretn,  zip  code,  and  phone  number  in  word  count. 
No  blind  add. 


BAPTISTRY/BATHTUB  REPAIR. 

Porcelain  or  fiberglass.  No  job  too 
large  or  small.  Statewide  service. 
No  mileage  charge.  K&K  Bathtub 
Repair,  1642  Hwy  84E,  Laurel, 
MS  39440;  1-800-349-2882. 

BIG  TOP  GOSPEL  TENTS,  all 

sizbs.  Open  Air  Ministries.  (318) 
939-2239. 

CHURCH  PEW  CUSHIONS: 

Manufactured  in  our  plant.  For 
free  estimate  contact  —  Emmons 
Brothers,  P.O.  Box  186,  Meridian, 
Miss.  39301.  Since  1899.  Phone 
(601)693-4451. 

USED  COMMERCIAL  KITCHEN 
equipment  for  sale:  Complete  set¬ 
up.  First  Baptist  Church,  Brook- 
haven,  MS  Smith  or  Sones,  (601) 
833-5118. 

FOR  BEST  SEATS  at  THE  PAS¬ 


SION  PLAY  in  Eureka  Springs, 
ARk.,  Reserve  Now  at  KELLER’S 
COUNTRY  DORM  RESORT  (For 
Groups  of  12  or  More)l  Just  $30 
Each  includes  Lodging,  Meals, 
Taxes.  &  BEST  ($12.50)  TICK- 
ETSI  Call  (501)253-8418. 

ORLANDO  CONVENTION  AR¬ 
RANGEMENTS:  Wide  Choice  of 
accommodations/shuttle  service. 
Disney-Convention  combination 
packages.  Discount  airfares  (New 
Orleans:  $135)  CHRISTIAN 
TRAVELERS  1-800-972-8952. 

POND  STOCKERS  —  Catfish, 
Bream,  Grass  Carp,  Crappie, 
Bass.  Phone  (601)  267-9859. 

FUND  RAISERS...  Sell  Clipless 
Coupons.  Get  the  funds  you  need 
and  provide  a  service  your  cus¬ 
tomers  need.  RMC,  Box  7191, 
Gulfport,  MS  39506. 


Unity  Church,  Pike  Associa¬ 
tion,  has  called  Jimmy  T.  Smith 

RJr.  as  pastor, 
effective  Feb. 
20.  He  goes  to 
Unity  Church 
from  Hepzibah 
Church, 
Lawrence  Asso¬ 
ciation.  Smith  is 
a  graduate  of 
William  Carey 
Smith  CoUege. 

Clifford  E.  Allred  has  been 
called  as  pastor  at  Knoxo  diurch, 
Tylertown,  effective  Feb.  27.  He  is 
pursuing  his  doctorate  degree  at 
New  Orleans  Seminary.  Scott 
Holder,  former  pastor,  was  called 
as  pastor  at  North  Long  Beach 
Church,  Long  Beach. 

Dan  T.  Guest,  minister  of 
music,  Bowmar  Avenue  CTrarch, 
Vicksburg,  retired  Dec.  31,  1993. 
He  and  his  family  now  live  in 
Gienadx 

We^t  Corinth  Church, 
CorinTh,  has  called  Shawn 
Bigham  of  Ecru  as  minister  of 
music  and  youth  effective  Feb.  27. 
His  previous  place  of  service  was 
First  Church,  Troy.  He  is  currently 
attending  Blue  Mountain  College. 


First  Church,  Terry,  has 
called  two  new  staff  members. 
Mark  San^fer,  minister  of  y^th/ 
activities,  is  a  graduate  of  M^is^ 
sippi  College  and  received  a  mas-^ 
ter  of  religious  education  degree' 
from  New  Orleans  Seminary. 
Johnny  Speedling  Jr.,  minister  of 
music,  is  a  graduate  of  William 
Carey  College  and  holds  a  master 
of  religious  education  degree  from 
New  (Means  Seminary. 

First,  Yazoo, 
continues  to 
mark  150th 

Rrst  Church,  Yazoo  City,  will 
celebrate  its  150th  anniversary 
throughout  1994.  Church  minutes 
from  1844  in(dicate  it  was  the  first 
Baptist  church  in  the  community. 

Harold  Shirley,  former  pastor, 
will  preach  March  13  at  11  a.m. 
and  6  p.m.  He  currently  lives  in 
Rock  Hill,  S.C. 

Another  former  pastor,  Wilmer 
C.  Fields,  will  preach  April  10. 
James  F.  Yates  will  return  to  his 
former  pulpit  Aug.  21.  Other  guest 
speakers  will  include  Clifton 
Perkins  and  Zig  Ziglar. 


Notice  of 
Position  Available 

w 

The  First  Baptist  Church  of  Fort  Myers,  Florida,  is  receiving 
recommendations  and  applications  up  to  May  15,  1994Tlor  a 
pastor  to  lead  the  church  into  the  twenty-first  century. 

This  102  year  old  historic  church  located  in  downtown  Fort 
Myers,  has  a  congregation  of  700  members,  and  an  annual 
budget  of  $825,0(30.00?  The  church  supports  the  Cooperative 
Baptist  Fellowship.  Sunday  morning  services  are  broadcast  live 
on  the  local  NBC  affiliate.  A  new  33,500  square  foot  Family  Life 
Center  is  under  construction. 

Interested  individuals  should  submit  a  letter  application  to: 
Pastor  Search  Committee 
First  Baptist  Church  of  Fort  Myers 
Post  Office  Box  204 
Fort  Myers,  Florida133902 

Applications  should  include  a  personal  resume, 
including  at  least  the  following; 

1 .  A  personal  history. 

2.  Academic  history,  including 
special  achievements. 

3.  Work  history,  with  emphasis  on  responsibility 
and  compensation  received. 

4.  Professional  certifications  and  affiliations. 

5.  Experience  and  affiliations  with 
church  related  organizations. 

6.  Civic  and  community  involvements. 

7.  Date  you  would  be  available. 

In  gerieral,  full  information  is  preferred.  Detailed  responses  will 
assist  the  Search  Committee  in  evaluating  candidates.  If  out-of¬ 
area  applicants  are  accepted  for  interview  by  the  Committee, 
appropriate  travel  allowances  will  be  available. 

Questions  regarding  this  position  may  be  directed  to: 

T.  Wainwright  Miller,  Jr,  Chairman 
Pastor  Search  Committee 
First  Baptist  Church  of  Fort  Myers 
Telephone:  813/656-0196 
Facsimile:  813/656-4621 


Names  in  the  News 


TharadaT.  March  10. 1994 


Rev.  and  Mrs.  E.  Jerry  Sion* 
aker  will  celebrate  their  SOth 
wedding  anniversary  on  March 
13.  The  celebration  will  be  held 
in  the  fellowship  hall  of  Bunker 
Hill  Church,  Marion  County, 
from  2-4  p.m. 

Randy  Robbins  was  recently 
ordained  to  the  gospel  ministry  by 
Rosen  Heights  Church,  Fort 
Worth,  Texas.  He  is  currently 
serving  as  associate  pastor  of 
Rosen  Heights  Church.  Robbins 
is  a  graduate  of  Mississippi  Col¬ 
lege  and  Southwestern  Seminary. 


Southern  Seminary,  Louis¬ 
ville,  Ky.,  has  received  a  gift  in 
excess  of  $1.5  million  that  will 
benefit  the  school’s  extension- 
center  in  the  Northeast  and  other 
seminary  programs.  Charlotte 
Hoover,  a  longtime  seminary 
donor  from  Armandale,  Va.,  des¬ 
ignated  more  than  $900,000  of 
the  gift  for  the  establishinent  of 
the  Hoover  Endowment  Fund. 
Income  from  the  fund  will  pro¬ 
vide  scholarships  and  help  meet . 
other  financial  needs  related  to 
the  seminary’s  Northeastern  Bq>- 
tist  School  of  Ministry. 


Immanuel  Church  honors 
Arinder,  10-year  pastor, 
with  10  special  days 


BAPTIST  RECORD  PAGE  9 


Baptist  hospital  acquires  pastoral 
care,  counseling,  education  center 


The  Pastoral  Counseling  and  Psychotherapy  CeiUer 
has  been  transferred  to  the  Pastor^  Care,  Counseling 
and  Education  Center,  under  the  direction  of  the  Mis¬ 
sissippi  Baptist  MetUcal  Center  (MBMC)  Pastoral 
Care  Department 

Eugene  Dyess,  founder  and  director  of  the  original 
Pastor^  Care  and  Psychotherapy  Center,  transferred 
his  center  to  MBMC’s  owtKrs^  after  more  than  25 
years  of  operation.  The  PCCEC,  at  336  Keener  Street, 
now  operates  under  the  direction  of  Paul  Stephenson, 
ctumlain  and  director  of  pastoral  care  at  MBMC,  and 
Jack  FoUis,  MBMC  clinical  supervisor. 

PCGEC  counselors  are  certifiaUe  by  the  American 
Association  of  Pastoral  Counselors  an^or  the  Ameri¬ 
can  Association  of  Marriage  and  Family  Thettq>ists. 
For  additional  information,  call  (601)  968-5146. 

Pictured  at  right  are  Dyess  (left)  and  M.  Kent 
Strum,  MBMC  executive  director. 


Ron  Chandler  is  Stewardship  nominee 


imperial 


Manufacturer  Serving  the  Nation.  Since  1960 

1-800.234-6624 


NASHVILLE  (BP)  —  Ronald  The  searcl 
E.  Chandler,  director  of  steward-  ed:  Samuel  J 
ship  for  the  California  Southern  Heights,  Md, 
Bi^tist  Convention  for  nearly  20  Martinville, 
years,  is  the  nominee  of  the  SBC  Burton,  Mid 
Stewardship  Commission  search  Lakewood,  C( 
committee  to  succeed  A.R.  Fagan  Chandler  fa 
as  president.  the  SBC  Ste' 

Chandler,  if  approved  by  the 
full  board  of  commissioners  at 
their  annual  meeting  March  24-25 
in  Nashville,  will  become  presi- 


Association  and  written  exten¬ 
sively  in  materials  for  the  SBC 
Stewardship  Commission.  He  has 
written  numerous  articles  in  var¬ 
ied  SBC  publications  as  well  as 
stewardship  Sunday  School 
lessons  for  the  Baptist  Sunday 
School  Board. 


Tommy  Arinder,  pastor  of  golf  balls. 

Immanuel  Church,  Cleveland,  On  Wednesday,  the  adult 
was  recently  honored  by  that  choir  redecorated  Arinder’s 
congregation  for  his  10  years  of  office  and  presented  him  with  a 
service.  plaque;  Thursday,  the  Adult  II 

A  10-day  period  of  apprecia-  department  presented  him  a  book 
tion  was  kicked  ofi  with  a  charge  and  a  magazine  subscription;  the 
to  Arinder  and  the  congregation  Brotherhood  also  gave  him  a 
by  Lucius  Marion,  as  be  bad  book;  Saturday,  the  WMU  gave 
done  10  years  ago.  Each  day  Arinder  a  gift  certificate  for 
after  that,  a  difierent  department  name  cards  to  be  printed;  arKl  the 
or  orgaruzation  took  charge  of  children  gave  him  an  office 
special  efforts  for  Arinder:  on  globe. 

Monday,  the  Adult  IV  Sunday  Sunday,  Adult  HI  gave  a  pic- 
School  class  delivered  an  ice  ture/letter  album  and  an  offering 
cream  cake  to  him;  Tuesday,  the  for  Arinder  to  use  for  benevo- 
youths  held  a  bamburgef  cookout  lence;  Monday,  the  preschool 
at  the  parsonage,  and  the  college  children  gave  him  a  tape  of 
department  gave  him  a  gift  of  songs  they  had  made;  and  the 

gra^  school  children  gave  him 
an  album  of  posters  and  letters. 
Tuesday,  Adult  I  honored  the 
pastor  at  his  home;  and  the  dea¬ 
cons  on  Wednesday  presented 
him  with  a  three-day  retreat  to 
Grenada  Lake. 


dent  June  1.  He  Win  work  along¬ 
side  A.R.  “Rudy”  Fagan  until 
Fagan’s  retirement  on  Sept.  30, 
according  to  commission  officials. 

Chandler,  61,  will  receive 
$81,000  in  salary,  Robert  L.  Ross, 
chairman  of  the  five-member 
search  committee,  told  Baptist 
Press. 


M.  Canzoneri 
dies  at  age  96 


PEWS— PULPITS 


Mabel  B.  Canzoneri,  96,  of 
Jackson,  died  at  her  home  Mardi  6. 

The  Standing  Pine  native  was 
the  mother  of  Antonina  Canzoneri, 
former  SBC  missionary  to  the 
Bahama  Islands  who  retired  in 
1985.  ' 

Services  were  held  at  First 
Church,  Clinton  at  10:30  a.m. 
March  10.  Burial  followed  in 
Lakewood  Memorial  Park  Ceme¬ 
tery. 

Additional  survivors  include 
two  sons,  Joe  of  Jackson;  and  Bob 
of  Columbus,  Ohio. 

Memorials  may  be  made  to  the 
SBC  Foreign  Mission  Board. 


Spring  Bible  Conference 

Park  Place  Baptist  Church 

March  17,  1:30-9  p.m. 

Featuring 


^Adults  love  this  walk  through  history 

OldAlabamaTown 

I9tk  Century  Uring  History  ViUagt 

Tour  more  than  20 
restored  buildings 

K  Guid^  Tours  &  Film 
¥  Crafts  Demonstrations 
if  Museum  Shop 
if  Crafts  Shops 

For  information  a  to  stheMe  grong  tears: 
310  N.  HuU  SL,  Montgomry,  AU.  36104 
205-240-4500 

tsaj SKtm oni-8Sai4S.  Opa  DiMr. 
Schedule  Your  Group's  Spring  Tour  Now! 


Dr.  Paige  Patterson 

president,  Southeastern  Baptist 
~  Theological  Seminary 


Dr.  Al  Mohler 

president.  Southern  Baptist 
Theological  Seminary 


Park  Place  is  located  on 
Hwy.  80  East,  Brandon/Pearl 
Phone:  (601)  939-6282 


Send  your  counoeUog  quomUous  to  UfeAnswers  c/o  The 
Baptist  Record,  F.O,  Box  530,  Jmckaon,  MS  39205-0530. 
Plemae  be  brief.  Mmme  mad  mddreaa  aot  requbed.  Bemetabert 
la  tbae  ofaMs,  your  pmmtor  emu  make  reciHaaieadmtloaa  oa 
your  couaaeUag  needm. 


recently  dedicated  a  new  350-seat  sanctuary, 
sndance  record  that  day  with  220  in  Sunday 


PACK  !•  ■ArnST  RECOttP 


Just  for  the  Record 


ThTad«T.  March  10. 1994 


Harmony  Church,  Crystal  Springs,  recently  held  a  note  burning  ceremo¬ 
ny  for  its  new  Family  Life  Center  and  Sunday  School  rooms.  A  $250,000 
building  was  constructed  and  paid  for  in  exactly  one  year.  . From  left  are 
Larry  Bell,  building  committee  chairman;  Wayne  Sojourner,  chairman  of 
deacons;  Clark  Stewart,  pastor;  and  Charlie  Sojourner,  chairman  of  trus¬ 
tees. 


Central  Church,  Golden,  held  dedication  services  and  an  open  house  for 
its  family  life  center  on  Jan.  30.  Over  400  attended  the  open  house.  The 
total  cost  for  the  family  life  center  was  $227,000.  Building  committee 
members,  pictured,  are  Rocky  Hughes,  Davy  Ginn,  Jeff  Mahan,  Kane  Har¬ 
ris,  Tim  Burton,  contractor,  Ralph  Culp,  pastor,  and  Mackey  Massey. 

Cowart  Church,  Charleston, 
will  have  homecoming  and  dedi¬ 
cation  of  a  stained-glass  mural 
given  by  the  family  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Clifton  Etheridge,  March 
20,  at  11  a.m.  The  speaker  will 
be  O.B.  Robertson,  former  pas¬ 
tor.  Lunch  will  be  served  follow¬ 
ing  the  service. 


The  William  Carey  College 
Theatre  will  present  the  drama 
“1918”  March  9-11  at  8  p.m.  in 
the  O.L.  Quave  Theater  on  the 
college’s  Hattiesburg  campus. 
Regular  admission  is  $6,  while 
the  cost  to  non-Carey  students 
and  college  employees  is  $3.  For 
reservations,  call  S 82-6221. 

Twenty-one  cast  members 

Supper  fellowship 
helps  bivocational 
ministers/wives 

A  bivocational  ministers/wives 
supper  fellowship  for  Area  5  will 
take  place  March  25  at  Shoney’s 
Restaurant,  High  Street  in  Jackson. 
The  event  will  begin  at  6:30  p.m. 
and  conclude  at  9. 

After  supper  there  will  be  train¬ 
ing,  focusing  on  worship  and  plan¬ 
ning  skills. 

There  is  no  cost  for  the  meal, 
sponsored  by  the  Church  Adminis¬ 
tration/Pastoral  Ministries  Depart¬ 
ment  of  the  Mississippi  Baptist 
Convention  Board.  No  pre-regis¬ 
tration  is  required. 


from  the  youth  of  First  Church, 
Flowood,  recently  hosted  Late 
Nite  Extra  for  Rankin  County. 
They  presented  the  program 
“Snow  Right  and  the  Seven 
Wrongs.”  The  youths  will  pre¬ 
sent  “Snow  Right  and  the  Seven 
Wrongs”  March  13  at  6  p.m.,  at 
Calva^  Church,  Columbia.  For 
more  information,  call  939-4266. 

Georgetown  Church,*  Copi¬ 
ah  Association,  set  a  goal  of 
$3,630.30  for  its.Lottie.^oon 
Christmas  Offering.  The  total  of 
$3,994.91  is  the  highest  amount 
ever  received.  Gene  Ertvin  is 
pastor. 

Calvary  Church, ''New 
Augusta,  will  host  the  annual 
L.K.  Turner  memorial  services 
on  Match  13.  The  Davis  Trio  of 
Eastlawn  Church,  Pascagoula, 
will  be  the  featined  singers.  The 
surviving  children  of  L.K.  Turn¬ 
er,  who  was  pastor  of  Cilvary 
and  other  churches  in  Mississippi 
and  Alabama,  will  have  charge  of 
the  services.  They  are  Roland  D. 
Turner,  Pascagoula,  message; 
G.E.  Turner,  Pascagoula,  and 
Roudet  O.  Turner,  Tyler,  Texas, 
congregational  singing;  and  Tere¬ 
sa  Dossett,  Mobile,  pianist.  Din- 


BAPTISTRIES 

HEATElia  PUim 

FACTORY  DIRECT 

TOU  FREE  NATIONWIDE  | 
1-MO-SSI-M79 

FBERGLASS  BAPTKTKV  CQ 
,3511  HKSON  PKE  •  CHATTANOOGA,  TN  37415i 


ner  on  the  grounds  will  be  served 
at  noon  and  singing  will  continue 
until  3:30  p.m. 

Goodyear  Church,  Pica¬ 
yune,  will  host  the  third  annual 
Spring  Bible  Conference,  March 
13-16.  The  times  are  Sunday.  11 
a.m.,  6  p.m.  and  7  p.m.;  Mon.,  7 
p.m.  and  8  p.m.;  and  Tues.  and 
Wed.,  7  p.|n.  Speakers  are  Lan¬ 
drum  P.  Leavell,  New  Orleans 
Seminary;  Moody  Adams;  Larry 
Robertson;  Poplarville;  Jerry 
Swimmer;  James  Messer;  Pat 
Porter;  and  John  Brock.  Arlis  F. 
Grice  is  pastor.  For  further  infor¬ 
mation,  call  (601)  798-6193. 

Over  100,000  collegiate  ath¬ 
letic  scholarships  are  available 
each  year  to  high  school  and 
junior  college  student  athletes. 
Contrary  to  popular  belief,  stu¬ 
dents  don’t  have  to  be  all-state  to 
qualify.  A  new  publication  with 
factual  information  is  available 
to  take  students  step  by  step 
through  the  important  process  of 
getting  a  scholarship.  It  includes 
college  and  conference  listings. 
For  more  information,  send  a 
self-addressed,  stamped  envelope 
to-  the  National  Sports  Founda¬ 
tion,  611 A  Willow  Drive,  P.O. 
Box  940,  Oakhurst,  NJ  07755. 

First  Church,  Nettleton,  held 
a  dedication  service  for  its  new 
chimes  on  Feb.  27.  The  Carillon 
System  from  Van  Bergen  Bell- 
foundries,  Inc.  was  donated  by 
the  Coggin  family  in  memory  of 
B.G.  Coggin  Sr.  and  Christine 
Coggin.  George  C.  Johnson  is 
pastor. 

First  Church,  Picayune,  will 
celebrate  its  90th  anniversary 
on  March  27  at  11  a.m.  Dinner 
on  the  grounds  will  be  served  at 
noon.  The  guest  speaker  will  be 
Carless  Evans  of  Meridian.  Paul 
Padgett  will  have  charge  of  the 
music.  The  church  choir  will  pre¬ 
sent  the  20th  anniversary  edition 
of  Gaither’s  “Alleluia”  at  4  p.m. 
Raymon  Leake  is  pastor. 

Calvary  Church,  Durant, 
will  host  a  gospel  concert  featur¬ 
ing  The  Pattersons,  March  12  at 
7  p.m.  For  more  information,  call 
(601)653-6461. 

First  Church,  Vicksburg, 
will  host  a  concert  by  Missions 
USA  Live  at  4  p.m.  on  March 
13.  The  music/drama  group  is 
sponsored  by  the  Home  Mission 
Board.  For  more  information, 
call  (601)  636-2493. 


XHURCH  PEWS  & 
FURNITURE  CO. 


it  Cushions  it  Baptistries 
it  Steeples  it  Renovation 
it  Pews  and  Pidpit 
Furniture 
(New  and  Used) 

'  Wallace  E.Foy 


WATTS  1-800-898-0551 
Jackson  957-3762 


GAs  Of  Osyka  Church,  Osyka,  made  and  donated  Valentine  angels  to 
Civic-Club  members  Tammy  Strickland  and  Stacee  Ott  (pictured)  for  use 
in  the  annual  Senior  Citizen  Valentine  Banquet.  The  angels  are  one  of  the 
mission  action  projects  the  girls  participate  in  to  earn  a  GA  badge.  GAs 
pictured,  from  left,  are  Abigail  Wall,  Megan  Gill,  Lana  Schilling,  Tiffany 
Strickland,  Kristy  Wall,  Katie  Cutrer,  Elizabeth  Wall,  and  Toni  Schilling. 
Suzanne  Cutrer  and  Kim  Wall  are  GA  leaders. 


Holly  Church,  Corinth, 

■’  The  church  set  a  new  attendance  record  that  day  witn  zzo 
School  and  307  in  worship  services.  Marc  D.  Howard  is  pastor. 

Barbara  Chapman  dies 


Barbara  Curtis  Chapman,  82,  of 
-Jackson,  died  March  5  of  re^ira- 
tory  failure.  She  was  the  mother  of 
Morris  Cbrqnnan,  president  of  the 
Southern  Baptist  Convention 
Executive  Conunittee. 

Funeral  services  and  burial 
were  held  March  7  in  Jackson. 

A  native  of  Rench  Camp,  Mrs. 
CluqMnan  was  a  member  of  Wood¬ 
land  Hills  Church,  Jackson.  In 


addition  to  Morris  of  Nashville, 
she  is  survived  by  a  son  Ron  of 
Jackson  and  four  grandchildren. 


•Steeples  & 
Baptistries 


AUTHORS  WANTED 

Leading  subsidy  book  pubisher  seeks  manu- 
scripts  of  al  ty^s:  ficlion,  non-lclion,  poetry, 
scholarly,  juvenile  and  reRgious  work^etc. 
New  authors  iwicomed.  Send  for  free  32-page 
ikjstr^  booklet  H-101  Vantage  Press,  516 
W.  34^,  New  York,  NY  10001 


CUwanUfot 

awintcaHlot 


ALL  NEW  CHAMPION  CRUSADER 

1 4  Passenger  Full  Size  Bus 
NO  CDL  REQUIRED 

Bus  Supply  Company 
Hwy.  98  East 
(601)684-2900  McComb,  MS  1-800-748-8681 

I _ \ 


} 


Uniform 

Receiving  God’s  gift 


Life  and  Worn 


Bible  Book 

True  light,  true  freedom 


Saved! 


By  Billie  Buckley 
Luke  19 


By  Doug  Bain 
Romans  4 


By  Dan  Howard 
John  8 


Tbe  day  I  was  saved  the  pieacber  told  us  about  a  man 
named  Paul  being  in  jail.  He  bad  a  chance  to  escape,  but  be 
didn’t.  The  jailer  was  so  surprised  that  be  asked  Paul,  “What 
can  I  do  to  be  saved  like  you?" 

Those  words  got  my  attention  because  I  also  needed  to 
know  how  to  do  that  Paul  ejqdained  it  sim{4y  enough 
through  the  revival  preacher  that  a  nine-year-old  little  girl, 
bom  far  away  in  Mississippi  some  2,000  years  later,  could 
understand. 

I  reasoned  that  I  was  lost  from  God,  but  be  was  looking 
for  me.  1  was  told  that  God  had  a  plan,  and  if  I  followed  it,  I 
could  be  bis  child  and  he  could  be  my  Father.  I  just  had  to 
believe  that  Jesus  was  tbe  way  to  establish  a  saving  relation¬ 
s' with  God. 

Luke  19  instructs  us  to  recognize  our  lostness;  react  to 
his  interest  in  us;  reflect  his  presence;  recall  our  experience 
of  faith;  and  remind  others  of  his  plan  and  purpose. 

Recognize  your  lostness  (w.  1-4).  Zacchaeus  was  a  tax 
collector,  which  meant  he  was  a  cheating,  corrupt  official  of 
the  Roman  government  He  was  to  die  Jews  a  traitor  — 
“public  enemy  No.  1.”  He  had  sold  out  to  the  Roman 
authorities. 

Looking  at  Zacchaeus,  we  can  reco^ze  many  qualities: 
his  wealth,  tus  cutming,  ttis  curiosity,  Us  “shortness,"  atKl 
his  hunger  for  sometlniag  more  in  life.  He  must  have  recog¬ 
nized  ti^  need  or  lostness  in  his  life,  for  he  went  to  great 
effort  to  see  Jesus  when  he  came  to  Jericho.  Even  today,  this 
is  the  first  stra  to  salvation  —  looking  around  and  saying, 
“Where'  am  I?  Why  am  1  here?  What  is  my  purpose  in  life?  I 
need  help.” 

React  to  his  interest  ki  you  (w.  5-7).  Jesus  found  me  at 
a  revival  in  a  church  in  Mississippi.  Jesus  found  Zacchaeus 
in  a  tr^  in  Jericho.  Where  did  Jesus  find  you? 

Jesus’  interest  in  Zacchaeus  caused  him  to  come  down 
just  as  God  stoops  down  and  takes  us  into  union  with  him¬ 
self.  How  did  Jesus  get  Zacchaeus  to  do  this?  It  was  with  an 
invitation  that  could  not  be  refused.  He  invited  himself  to 
the  worst-sinner-in-the-town’s  house.  Why?  Could  it  be 
because  he  knew  Zacchaeus  was  seeking  for  a  better  plan 
than  the  one  he  was  following  —  one  of  fraud  and  thievery. 

Jesus  took  advantage  of  tlK  interest  that  was  expressed  in 
him.  Do  we  take  advantage  of  sharing  our  knowledge  of 
Jesus  with  others  when  ttey  show  interest  in  our  Savior? 

Reflect  his  presence  in  you  (v.  8).  Zacchaeus’  actions 
and  words  demonstrate  that  he  was  saved.  “Lord,  Lord!" 
was  his  first  response.  What  do  these  words  irxlicate? 

The  greatest  indication  is  a  change  of  heart.  No  longer 
was  Zacchaeus  in  control.  Jesus  was  Lord  and  the  control¬ 
ling  agent  in  his  life.  At  this  point,  he  had  believed  in  the 
power  and  presence  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth  to  save  him  fixMn 
being  separated  fiom  God.  Jesus  bad  singled  him  out  to 
establish  a  relationship  —  not  by  keepng  the  Jewish  laws, 
but  by  believing  that  Jesus  was  the  means  to  entering  into 
the  presence  of  God. 

Zacchaeus’  life  truly  reflected  Jesus’  presence  because  of 
bis  desire  to  pay  back  with  a  400%  rebate  to  those  he  had 
knowingly  cheated,  plus  giving  half  of  his  net  worth  to  the 
poor. 

Recall  your  experience  tlrough  faith  (v.  9).  Recalling 
our  salvation  erqrerience  gives  us  assurarxe  that  we  are 
“saved  by  faith,  not  of  works,  least  any  man  should  boast” 
(Eph.  2:8). 

This  gives  us  power  and  authority  to  share  our  discovery 
witii  others.  We  need  to  be  aware  that  there  are  those  who 
speak  and  act  like  a  Christian  today  who  are  not  necessarily 
saved  We  ate  not  saved  because  of  how  we  speak  and  act. 
However,  spe^  and  action  can  be  eroeaed  to  reflect  our 
^iritual  coition.  How  can  you  tell  the  difference?  The 
real  thing  “bears  fruit,"  cm’  brings  God  atKfman  together. 

Remind  others  of  his  purpose  (v.  10).  Wasn’t  Jesus’ 
purpose  to  seek  atxl  to  save  those  who  were  lost,  like  Zac- 
chaieus?  Not  for  one  minute  do  I  think  the  meeting  between 
Zacchaeus  and  Jesus  was  coincidental.  It  was  part  of  the 
plan  and  purpose  of  God  to  bring  us  back  into  his  family 
again,  releas^  from  sin’s  power  over  us.  Because  of  tto  ' 
new  relationship,  we  are  loved  and  accepted  relieved  and 
restored,  clean  and  beautifiil  in  God’s  sight. 

Buddey  is  a  member  of  Petal-Harvey  Church,  Petal. 


The  faith  experience  of  which  Paul  speaks  was  a  new 
reality  totally  foreign  to  tus  former  way  of  being  religious. 
What  is  this  incredible  reality  he  refers  to  as  “faith,"  this 
gift  of  a  totally  new  posture  that  makes  Jesus’  life  a  present 
reality  iti  Paul?  A  way  of  getting  to  rightness,  a  way  of' 
knowing,  seeing,  believing,  comnutting,  a  way  of  being  in 
touch  with  feeling  and  witii  healing,  a  way  of  grounding 
life  in  sheer  gift,  coming  to  God  based  on  grace  —  this 
faith  is  sheer  giff  not  self-constructed  It  must  be  experi¬ 
enced  to  be  described,  but  then  it  cannot  really  be  defined. 
Faith  is  tbe  way  in  which  we  incline  toward  God  It  qiCns 
us  to  the  power  of  God,  to  resources  beyond  ourselves  that 
do  for  us  what  we  could  never  do  for  ourselves! 

Faith,  however,  was  not  something  foreign  to  the 
Hebrews.  The  father  of  Israel,  Abraham,  was  “Fatiier  of  the 
Faithful.”  It  was  true,  however,  that  God’s  original  repre¬ 
sentative  people  had  gotten  off  track  and  bad  t^en  the 
good  gift  of  the  Torah  (Law)  out  of  the  context  of  faith 
relationship,  transforming  it  into  an  agenda  of  religious 
items  by  which  to  achieve  sqiproval  from  God.  After  the 
'exile,  Israel  learned  their  le^on  too  well;  instead  of 
neglecting  the  Law.,  now  they  were  centralizing  it,  exter¬ 
nalizing  it,  making  tbe  Law  an  end  in  itself  rather  than  tbe 
means  by  which  to  cooperate  with  God  By  tbe  first  centu¬ 
ry,  faith  relationsh^  was  basically  being  ne^ected;  but 
Jesus  reintroduce  it  in  a  radically  new  fasbioit  Paul  dis¬ 
covered  this  faith  as  he  had  been  discovered  by  the  risen 
Christ. 

The  promise  guaranteed  through  faith  (w.  13-17). 
Righteousness  is  the  experience  of  right-ness  —  not  only 
being  right  with  God,  but  also  no  longer  anxiously  bursting 
to  prove  oneself  right  or  vindicated.  Such  a  gift  of  “being 
ri^t"  comes  only  through  the  gift  of  faith.  To  drive  home 
ti^  significant  truth,  Paul  makes  reference  to  Abraham. 

Tbe  promise  to  Abraham  did  not  rest  on  tbe  method  of 
“rule  keeping”  or  performance  of  required  ritual.  Nothing 
Abraham  could  accomplish  would  merit  the  fulfillment  of 
God’s  promise  of  a  distinctly  different  representative  peo¬ 
ple.  The  absolute  confidence  that  Yabweb  would  be  true  to 
his  promise  was  the  only  basis  for  Abrahana’s  hope.  That 
basis  shifted  the  focus  of  responsibility  and  reliability  off 
Abraham  and  onto  God,  requiring  only  from  Abraham 
faith  and  faithfulness.  The  God  who  calls  nonexistent 
things  into  existence  is  the  one  whose  grace  guarantees  the 
promise.  Faith,  then,  and  not  ritual  rule  keeping,  guarantees 
the  promise. 

Faith  despite  incredible  obstacles  (w.  18-22).  Abra¬ 
ham  hoped  against  all  odds,  trusting  the  promise  for  which 
he  left  home  territory  would  hold  true,  that  he  would  be  the 
forerunner  of  a  new  people,  a  people  of  faith.  When  there 
was  no  obvious  ground  for  ho^,  be  took  God  at  his  word. 
He  was  10  deca^  ancient,  tus  wife  was  barren  and  aged. 
Who  in  their  right  mind  would  take  that  as  evidence  for  a 
child  on  the  way?  Although  Abraham’s  futb  was  not  per¬ 
fect  and  be  did  some  unfaithful  deeds  (as  related  in  G^- 
sis),  his  inclination  was  basically  faith^iieoted.  In  the  long 
run,  no  distrust  made  him  waver.  He  grew  strong  in  fahh, 
fully  convinced.  And  this  kind  of  faith  made  him  not  give 
up  on  the  promise  of  God,  which  was  all  that  was  required 
Abraham’s  style  of  moving  into  the  great  unknown,  on  the 
basis  of  pure  promise,  is  what  Paul  capitalizes  on  as  a 
model  for  “having  faith.”  Faith  is  taking  God  at  his  word 
so  that  life  is  built  absolutely  on  that  basis. 

Righteousness  for  the  believer  (w,  23-25).  Tbe  point 
of  tbe  text  is  that  the  same  principle  that  was  true  for  Abra¬ 
ham  bolds  true  today.  God’s  promise  is  the  basis  for  our 
moving  into  tbe  great  unknown  and  for  our  beconting  a 
presentative,  elect,  aiKl  covenant  people.  By  unwavering 
trust  we  take  God  at  his  word  that  we  too  will  see  it  come 
to  pass,  despite  obstacles.  We  in  fact  have  evidence  in  tbe 
resurrection  of  Jesus  (v.  24)  of  what  God  will  do  for  us.  As 
we  are  in  Christ,  God’s  power  will  do  tbe  same  raising  to 
new  life  that  be  did  in  Jesus.  But  tbe  principle  is  the  same 
as  it  was  for  Father  Abraham  —  by  faith  alone  —  sola  fide. 
What  radical  and  revolutionary  truth  —  only  by  faith  — 
and  even  that  is  God’s  gracious  gift! 

Bain  is  professor  of  biblical  and  related  studies.  Blue 
Mountain  College. 


During  a  mission  trfe  to  Bangladesh  my  wife  aral  I  spent 
one  night  in  Bangkok,  Tfiailarxl.  Entry  to  our  hotel  room 
>was  made  with  a  connputer  card.  We  also  discovered  that  in 
order  for  tbe  lights  to  wrak,  we  must  place  the  card  in  the 
slot  by  the  door.  After  tbe  lights  were  on,  I  took  tbe  card 
out  of  the  slot  and  placed  it  on  the  dresser.  Through  a  series 
of  mishiq)s,  we  fou^  we  were  to  leave  tiie  card  in  tire  slot 
for  the  li^ts  to  stay  on. 

Just  l^e  that  card,  having  Jesus  in  our  lives  is  the  key  to 
having  li^t  in  our  lives. 

Jesus:  the  light  (w.  12-lti).  At  the  beginning  of  tbe 
Feast  of  Tabernacles,  enormous  candelabras  were  lit  in  the 
Court  of  tbe  Women.  This  was  a  reminder  to  die  people  of 
the  pillar  of  fire  which  accompanied  the  children  of  Israel 
at  night  during  tiieir  wilderness  experience.  Because  of  the 
time  of  tile  feast  Jesus  was  speaking,  these  candelabras  may 
not  have  been  burning.  In  the  absence  of  this  great  light, 
Jesus  made  the  claim,  “I  am  tiie  light  of  the  world....” 

Because  Jesus  is  the  light  of  the  world,  be  is  tbe  source 
of  true  light.  If  we  are  to  have  true  light  we  must  have  Jesus 
in  our  lives.  Tbe  phrase  “be  who  follows  me”  describes  a 
disciple  who  is  continuously  following.  As  we  follow  Jesus 
we  are  promised  that  we  will  not  live  in  darkness,  but  we 
“shall  tave  the  light  of  life.”  The  phrase  “li^  of  life” 
could  signify  the  light  which  gives  life,  tbe  light  which  is 
life,  tbe  light  whidi  springs  from  life,  or  the  light  whidi 
illuminates  life.  All  of  these  are  true  about  Jesus. 

The  Pharisees  questioned  the  validity  of  Jesus’  witness 
because  be  bore  testimony  of  himself.  Tbe  Mosaic  law 
required  at  least  two  witnesses  to  determine  if  a  person  was 
guilty  or  innocent  Jesus  stated  in  verse  16  that  tus  testimo¬ 
ny  was  true  because  he  bad  the  witness  of  himself  and  his 
father. 

Sin’s  slavery  and  true  freedom  (w.  31-18).  Some 
commentators  think  that  verse  30  refers  to  true  believers 
and  verse  3 1  refers  to  those  who  made  an  outward  profes¬ 
sion  but  their  faith  was  flawed.  That  the  people  in  verse  3 1 
did  not  have  a  genuine  trust  in  Jesus  may  be  implied  when 
Jesus  stated,  “If  you  abide  in  my  word....”  The  way  Jesus 
said  one  could  distinguish  his  true  disciples  was  if  they 
abide  in  his  word.  To  abide  in  his  word  implies  that  we 
believingly  receive,  lovingly  obey,  and  faithfully  continue 
to  five  by  the  words  of  Jesus.  The  result  of  living  this  type 
of  life  is  that  we  will  know  Jesus,  the  Truth,  and  be  sh^  set 
us  free  fiom  the  bondage  of  sin. 

The  Jewish  people  responded  to  Jesus’  statement  by  say¬ 
ing  that  they  did  not  need  to  be  fieed  fiom  bondage.  This  is 
the  attitude  of  many  people  today  who  do  not  realize  that 
they  are  enslaved  by  sin. 

Jesus  stated  in  verse  34  that  tbe  person  living  a  life  of 
sin  is  the  slave  of  sin.  Jesus  is  not  saying  an  individual  act 
of  sin  makes  one  a  slave  to  sin;  but  te  does  indicate  that 
every  time  we  sin  it  increases  the  grip  of  sin  (hi  our  lives  to 
the  point  that  we  may  become  enslaved.  Only  tiie  Son, 
Jesus,  can  set  us  free  fiom  tbe  bondage  of  sin.  When  he  has 
set  us  fiee  through  our  belief  in  him,  we  will  have  the  sedb- 
rity  of  remaining  in  his  bouse  forever. 

In  verses  37  and  38  Jesus  reminds  tbe  pe^le  and  us  that 
our  actions  and  attitudes  indicate  to  whom  we  belong. 
Because  the  pec^le  were  still  thinking  about  killing  Jesus, 
this  proved  that  they  belonged  to  tbe  devil  and  not  to  God. 

Jesu»  makes  a  great  claim  (w.  56-59).  Jesus  stated  iii 
verse  56  that  Abraham  anticipated  with  great  joy  the  day 
Jesus,  the  Messiah,  would  be  bom,  die,  and  be  resurrected. 
The  Jews  responded  in  a  sarcastic  way  by  noting  Jesus’ 
youthfulness  and  asking  if  he  had  seen  Abraham.  Jesus 
made  an  imposing  claim:  to  have  existed  before  tbe  founda¬ 
tion  of  the  worid  and  to  be  God.  The  words  “I  Am”  are 
words  God  used  to  identify  himself  in  tbe  Old  Testamerk. 
Tbe  Jews  would  have  understood  tiiese  words  as  a  claim  by 
Jesus  to  betiivine.  To  tbe  Jews  this  was  blasphemy,  a  crime 
punishable  by  stoning.  When  they  attempted  to  stone  Jesus, 
God  intervened.  Through  a  supernatural  concealment  Jesus 
was  hidden  and  protected  fiom  them.  . 

Jesus  is  Light,  Truth,  and  is  Divine.  Only  he  will  set  us 
free  fiom  tbe  darkness  and  bondage  of  sin. 

Howard  is  pastor,  Woodville  Church,  Woodville. 


ARK-  PROCLAMATION  SPARKS  DEBATE  BETWEEN  BAP¬ 
TIST  LT.  GOV.,  ACLU:  LTITLE  ROCK,  Aik.  (BP)  —  Christian  Her¬ 
itage  Week,  set  for  Feb.  27  through  March  5  in  Aikansas,  has  marked 
controversy  between  Lt.  Gov.  Mike  Hu£kabee  and  the  state  chapter  of  the 
American  Civil  Liberties  Union.  Huckabee  signed  the  Christian  Heritage 
Week  proclamation  eariier  in  February  while  serving  as  a^ing  governor. 
The  one-page  proclamation,  guested  by  attorney  Brenda  Vassaur  Taylw 
of  Altbeimer,  Ark.,  cites  Benjamin  Franklin,  George  Washington,  Thomas 
Jefferson,  and  other  American  forefathers  as  “Christian  statesmen  of  cali¬ 
bre  and  integrity  who  did  not  hesitate  to  express  dieir  faith.”  Huckabee,  a 
former  Aikansas  Baptist  pastor  and  former  {Resident  of  the  Aikansas  Bap¬ 
tist  State  Convention,  said  he  never  anticipated  the  {Roclamation  would 
cause  concern.  “We  are  one  of  14  states  so  far  who  have  simply  issued  a 
proclamation  acknowledging  the  contribution  of  Christians  to  this  coun¬ 
try,”  he  explained.  “To  simply  recognize  that  a  certain  segment  of  our 
sodety  has  contributed  to  that  society  and  allow  them  the  privilege  of 
being  acknowledged  and  beard  in  a  completely  voluntary  manner  is  not 
only  appropriate  but  it  is  unthinkable  it  would  be  objectionable  to  anyrme 
except  '^Chiistophobics.”’  Rita  Spillenger,  executive  director  of  the  ACLU 
in  Arkansas,  sees  it  differently.  While  acknowledging  the  proclamation 
does  not  violate  the  U.S.  Constitution  or  state  law,  she  questioned  the 
proclamation’s  content  and  {mipose.  “I  think  it’s  misleading.  I  think  it’s 
^toition  of  history  for  a  political  pui{X)se.  I  think  it’s  es|>e(^y  mislead¬ 
ing  when  it  comes  from  the  governor’s  office.”  ^ 

CROATIA'S  FASTEST  GROWING  CHURCH,  BUT  NO  PASTOR 
WANTS  TO  TRADE  PLACES:  KARLOVAC,  Croatia  (BP)  —  Ladislav 
Ruzieka  is  pastor  of  Croatia’s  fastest  growing  Baptist  church.  But  not 
many  pastors  would  trade  places  with  him.  His  church  building  is  400 
yards  from  a  “no  man’s  land'  that  separates  Croatian  and  Serbian  troops 
in  a  ^nd  wracked  by  civil  war.  “I  watched  the  whole  war  from  this  win¬ 
dow,’’  the  animated  young  pastor  says,  turning  to  the  window  behind  his 
desk  in  a  tiny  second-floor  office.  “Twenty-five  grenades  landed  within 
100  meters  (ff  this  building,"  he  adds,  describing  the  three-month  siege  of 
Karlovac  by  Serbian  troops  in  October  1991.  The  exterior  walls  of  the 
church  still  wear  the  scars  of  shrapnel  from  mortar  shells  bursting  in  the 
church’ s  front  yard.  But  Ruzieka,  his  wife  Melanie,  and  their  5-year-old 
daughter  rffused  to  leave.  At  stake,  he  believes,  was  their  credibility  as 
believers  and  his  as  a  pastor.  “If  I  had  left  I  could  never  have  come  back," 
says  Ruzieka.  “We  just  trusted  that  God  would  take  care  of  us.  The  church 
must  continue  to  go  forward  regardless  of  politics."  Despite  the  danger 
and  hardships,  the  church  continued  to  worship,  but  not  without  difficulty. 
'P eople  would  not  come."  says  the  pastor.  “There  was  no  plumbing,  the 
front  line  was  next  to  the  church,  and  there  were  no  lights  at  night." 

REBELS  BOMB  COLOMBIAN  SCHOOL,  KIDNAP  MISSION¬ 
ARIES:  CALI,  Colombia  —  Leftist  guerrillas  bombed  an  American 
school  operated  by  Presbyterians  in  Cali,  Colombia,  Feb.  18  during  a  cam¬ 
paign  of  anti-American  violence  protesting  the  presence  of  about  250 
American  troops  in  Colombia.  No  one  was  injured  in  the  blast,  which 
occurred  when  someone  threw  a  bomb  over  a  fence  around  the  school, 
said  Raixlall  Sledge,  Southern  Bi^:)tist  worker  in  Colombia.  During  the  lat¬ 
est  violence.  Southern  Baptist  missionaries  in  Colombia  have  not  been 
harmed  or  threatened  but  are  being  cautious.  “The  main  thing  is  not  to  be 
in  the  v^ng  place  at  the  wrong  time,”  Sledge  said.  “Pray  for  us  that  we’ll 
have  wisdom  to  be  alert  and  to  be  carefiil  about  where  we  go  and  what  we 
do.”  Two  American  missionaries  with  New  Tribes  Mission  were  kid- 
napfied  by  guerrillas  Jan.  16  near  Villavicencio,  Colombia,  arxl  remain  in 
detention.  Three  New  Tribes  missionaries  kidn^{)ed  last  year  in  Panama 
also  are  still  being  held  hostage. 

BIBLE  PORTIONS  NOW  IN  2,062  LANGUAGES:  LONDON—  The 
Bible  or  portions  of  it  were  available  in  an  additional  44  languages  by 
1993’ s  end,  reported  the  United  Bible  Societies.  The  Bible  or  books  from  it 
have  been  translated  into  2,062  of  the  world’s  estimated  6,000  languages. 
The  complete  Bible  exists  in  only  337  tongues,  however.  New  Testament 
translations  total  799.  At  least  80%  ^  the  world s  population  have  access 
to  at  least  part  of  the  Scriptures  in  a  language  they  can  understand, 
according  to  a  societies  spokesman. 

BOY  SCOUTS  CANNOT  REQUIRE  OATH  TO  GOD,  COURT 
RULES:  LOS  ANGELES  (ABP)  —  The  Boy  Scouts  of  America  caitnot 
exclude  members  who  refuse  to  swear  duty  to  God,  a  Cahfomia  ap()ellate 
court  ruled  Feb.  28.  The  4th  Distria  Court  of  Appeals  allowed  12-year-oId 
twins  Michael  and  William  Randall  of  Anaheim  to  remain  Boy  Scouts. 
The  boys  bad  been  kicked  out  for  refusing  to  recite  “God”  in  the  Scouts’ 
oath.  The  court  raled  that  Scouting  is  essentially  a  business  and  therefore 
camot  discriminate  based  on  religious  belief.  The  boys  were  kicked  out  in 
1991  and  reinstated  by  a  lower  court  in  1992.  The  Boy  Scouts  appealed 
the  ruling,  now  upheld  by  the  appeals  court.  1-ast  December,  the  U.S. 
Supreme  Court  refused  to  hear  another  challenge  to  the  Scouts’  require¬ 
ment  that  members  affirm  a  belief  in  God.  In  that  case,  the  Ugh  court  left 
starxling  lower  court  rulings  that  a  federal  anti-discritnination  law  did  not 
a|)ply  to  the  Boy  Scouts.  Tte  ca%  involved  an  Illinois  youth,  Mark  Welsh, 
an  agnostic,  who  was  |)revented  from  joining  a  suburban-Lhicago  Cub 
Scout  pack  fot  refusing  to  sign  a  pledge  {nomising  “to  love  God” 


Pollard  urges  preachers 
“to  sit  where  people  sit” 


NASHVILLE  (BP)  —  To  help 
{leople  relate  to  and  enjoy  sermons, 
the  preacher  must  learn  to  love  and 
relate  to  people,  two  Southern 
Baptist  pastors  told  175  of  their 
peers  attending  a  nationwide 
preaching  confereiKe  in  Nashville 
Feb.  14-16. 

Frank  PoOard,  pastor  of  First 
Cliordi,  Jackson,  and  Dean  Ro¬ 
ister,  pastor  of  Temple  Church, 
Hattiesburg,  were  two  of  the  ses¬ 
sion  leaders  for  the  National  C!on- 
ference  chi  Preaching  aiKl  Worship 
at  the  Baptist  Sunday  School 
Board 

Pollard  said  be  .believes  preach¬ 
ers  need  to  know  how  they  feel 
about  the  {)eople  they  are  preach¬ 
ing  to  in  offier  to  help  the  {)eople 
relate  to  their  sermons. 

“As  you  share  the  Word  of 
God,  that  may  be  the  best  thing 
you  do  for  them.  When  you  are 
standing  before  i)eople,  you  are 
doing  something  no  one  else  is 
going  to  do  for  them,”  he  said 

Pollard  said  be  s{)ends  a  part  of 
each  Saturday  “sitting  where  the 
peopl^sit,”  to  consider  what  a 
recent  widow  will  hear  when  he 
preaches  on  Sunday  or  what  needs 
a  specific  15-year-old  boy  will 
have. 

“The  Word  of  God  is  relevant; 
you  don’t  have  to  make  it  relevant. 
But  if  you  are  thinking  about  s{)e- 
cific  {leople,  you  have  to  remember 
their  needs  as  you  preach. 

“Somehow  we  have  to  entertain 
the  idea  we  will  preach  without 


notes,”  be  continued  “We  will  talk 
with  them  rather  than  reading  from 
notes.  Can  you  see  Jesus  Christ 
standing  on  the  side  of  a  mountain 
saying,  ‘Blessed  are  the  ...  uh...’ 
and  then  looking  down  at  his 
notes?” 

Pdlaid  urged  preachers  to  look 
at  |)eople  in  the  congregation  while 
preac^g  and  in  doing  so  to  say, 
“I  care.”  To  do.that,  he  said  he 
does  not  memorize  sermons.  “I 
leam  them,”  be  said. 

Humor  can  play  a  significant 
role  in  relating  to  persons  from  the 
[MiljMt,  he  observed. 

“Relating  to  {iqople  by  humor  is 
a  national  thing  for  us,”  he  said. 
“Do  you  know  what  this  nation 
does  when  it  faces  crises?  People 
begin  to  {>ray  and  they  tell  jokes.” 

But,  he  cautioned,  “We  have  to 
know  our  limits.  Some  of  us  just 
can’t  tell  stories.” 

Pollard  also  said  there  is  “some 
danger  in  saying  my  big  goal  is  to 
get  ]>eople  to  enjoy  sermons.  We 
communicate  that  they  are  cus¬ 
tomers,  that  we  are  going  to  sell  a 
product.  We  don’t  need  to  make 
religious  customers  out  of  {)e(^le 
who  ought  to  be  a  congregation. 
Some  of  our  {ninted  programs  look 
like  we  are  trying  to  sell,  to  make 
religious  customers  out  of  stewards 
of  God. 

“The  way  to  see  worship  is  not 
as  platform  performers  and  an 
audience.  When  worship  takes 
place,  the  people  in  the  congrega¬ 
tion  are  the  perfomters,  God  is  the 


Hawaii  will  suffer  boycott  if 
same-sex  marriage  laws  pass 


TUPELO  (EP)  —  The  Ameri¬ 
can  Family  Association  (AFA) 
will  encourage  its  1.8  million 
members  to  boycott  Hawaii  if  the 
state  le^slattire  fails  to-enacMaws 
forbidding  same-sex  marriag^N. 

The  Hawaii  Supreme  Court 
ruled  last  year  that  homosexuals 
should  be  allowed  to  marry  unless 
there  is  a  “comfwlling  state  inter¬ 
est”  at  stake  —  an  issue  now  under 
consicteration  in  the  legislature. 

AFA ’s  founder,  Donald  Wild- 
mon,  said,  "We  feel  that  those 
who  believe  in  traditional  mar¬ 


riage  between’heterosexuals  would 
observe  the  boycott  and  it  would 
receive  wide  support.  The  possi¬ 
bility  of  Hawaii  becoming  a 
homosexual  tourist  destination 
will  certainly  turn  away  millions 
of  others  who  op|X)se  thie  legaliza¬ 
tion  of  homosexual  marriages.” 

According  to  a  new  poll  by 
Newsweek  magazine,  opjiositioo 
to  legally  sanctioned  homosexual 
marriages  is  growing  in  America; 
62%  of  Americans  oppose  gay 
marriages,  up  from  58%  in  an 
1992  survey. 


r 


Bibliocipher 

By  Charles  Marx 
copyright  1994 


OZWJWXGJW,  AX  YGV  KG  UDGLZW  LZW  YJSKK 
GX  LZW  XAWDV,  OZAUZ  LGVSQ  AK,  SFV  LGEGJJ- 
GO  AK  USKL  AFLG  LZW  GNWF,  KZSDD  ZW  FGL 
EMUZ  EGJW  UDGLZW  C^GM,  G  QW  GX  DALLDW 
XSALZ? 

ESLLZWO  KAP:  LZAJLQ. 

Have  fun  with  cryptography  and  exercise  your  Bible  knowledge.  A  King 
James  Version  Bible  verse  has  been  encoded  by  leUer  substitution.  The  same 
letter  is  substituted  throu^out  the  puzzle.  Solve  by  trial  and  error.  Answer 
to  last  wedc's  puzzle  Haggai  Two:  Five. 


audience,  and  the  {leople  on  the 
platform  are  prompters,’^  he  said. 

“Lead  jie^e  to  understand  this 
is  a  service  of  worship,  and  they  are 
the  ones  who  are  sfiealring  to  God.” 

Pollard  reminded  conference 
participants  that  “God  understands 
we  are  not  {lerfect.  The  church  is 
the  place  where  we  have  been 
loved,  accepted,  and  forgiven 
when  we  were  unlovable,  unac¬ 
ceptable,  and  unforgivable^  so  we 
should  be  loving,  accepting,  and 
forgiving.” 

Pollard  said  preaching  can  be 
aimed  at  behavioral  change,  but  “it 
is  the  Lord  who  changes  us.  It  is 
the  Word  of  the  Lord  he  uses  to 
tell  us  bow  to  change. 

“Believe  God  can  change  {)eo- 
ple,”  he  encouraged  preachers. 
“We  are  {noducts  of  our  decisions. 
People  are  the  only  creations  God 
didn’t  finish. 

“God  gave  to  us  the  dignity  arxl 
the  danger  of  decisions.  We  finish 
our  own  creation  by  what  we 
decide  to  do,”  PoUard  said. 

Register  reminded  pastors 
“pleaching  is  not  merely  what  we 
do;  it  is  who  we  are.  What  we 
preach  is  mightily  reinforced  or 
negated  by  the  life  we  live.” 

He  urged  pastors  to  model  love 
for  others,  adding:  “The  atmos¬ 
phere  of  our  church  is  so  often  a 
reflection  of  who  we  are  as  lead¬ 
ers.” 

Register  discussed  the  three 
needs  he  believes  every  church 
member  has  in  common;  to  be 
loved,  to  be  valued  by  others,  and 
to  express  love  to  others  through 
ministry. 

He  ^so  suggested  five  “moves 
that  make  a  difference”  in  under¬ 
standing  and  loving  church  mem¬ 
bers:  1)  Ask  Jesus  to  give  you  a 
passion  for  people  (Matt.  9:36-38); 

2)  Realize  that  loye  is  more  devo¬ 
tion  than  emotion  (Luke  6:33-35); 

3)  Scrutinize  your  motive  when 
you  preach  mad  (Jonah  4:2,  Prov. 
16:2);  4)  Prescribe  a  solution  when 
you  point  out  a  problem  (Prov. 
15:2);  5)  S{>end  time  with  a  mentor 
who  models  compassion  (Prov. 
11:14). 


oo 


1 

0 

3 

1  O 

no  rj 

O  N 

^cn 

_io 

►-’Ul 

m 

roKO 

0) 

no 

n 

V) 

X  H- 

S 

O-Ui 

8 

CO 

ac 

■X:C'. 

u 

4JJUJ 

<Q 

zz:_]v 

• 

51 51  ' 

2 

h-  O)  C  ^  . 

in 

O  H 

1  P  i* 

X 

o 

iDDt-fCO 

CD 

oocc 

1 

c.o>.z’ 

March  10, 1994 


