““ Colloid Journal, Vol. 56, No. 6, 1994, pp. 674 - 679. Translated from Kolloidnyi Zhurnal, Vol. 56, No. 6, 1994, pp. 761 - 766. 
Original Russian Text Copyright © 1994 by Zharkikh, Lyklema, Dukhin. 


Electrophoresis and Electrical Conductivity 
of Suspensions under the Conditions of Quasi-Equilibrium 
Polarization of the Double Layer as a Whole 


N. I. Zharkikh*, J. Lyklema**, and S. S. Dukhin*** 


* Institute of Biocolloid Chemistry, Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, pr. Vernadskogo 42, Kiev, 252680 Ukraine 
** Wageningen University of Agriculture, Wageningen, P/O 8038 6700 EK, Netherlands 
*** Institute of Colloid Chemistry and Chemistry of Water, Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, 
pr. Vernadskogo 42, Kiev, 252680 Ukraine 


Received March 14, 1994 


Abstract — The double layer as a whole includes a diffuse part and other structural parts such as, for example, 
the Stern layer (a porous adsorption layer). Phenomenologically, polarization and, consequently, the electroki- 
netic behavior of a particle are described by a set of parameters (phenomenological invariants); the moments of 
double layer and partial surface conductivities for each type of ion should be used as such parameters. On a 
molecular level, the task is to express these phenomenological invariants in terms of parameters characteristic 
of individual parts of the double layer. Calculations were performed for a model of a thin adsorption layer, for 
which the Henry—Stern isotherm is valid. The conductivity increment for such a system was shown to be very 
sensitive to the mobility of adsorbed potential-determining ions. The magnitude of this mobility may be evalu- 


ated by measuring adsorption and conductivity in a wide concentration range 


The aim of this paper is to combine various 
approaches to considering the polarization of constitu- 
ent parts of the electrical double layer. The basic 
assumptions underlying this study are quasi-equilib- 
rium polarization (i.e., for ionic concentration in some 
volume, the relaxation time is of the same order of 
magnitude as the time of diffusion relaxation) and the 
thickness of the electrical double layer (the thickness of 
the diffuse part amounts to a predominant fraction 
of the overall thickness) is small as compared to parti- 
cle size. 


TWO LEVELS IN DESCRIBING 
THE SURFACE OF A PARTICLE 


The theory of electrokinetic phenomena uses two 
principal approaches [1]. The first one — the phenome- 
nological approach — establishes the relationship 
between the magnitude of observed phenomenon and a 
set of certain phenomenological parameters describing 
the surface. The extent of the correlation between a cer- 
tain set of parameters (phenomenological invariants) 
and a specific set of experimental data offers a criterion 
to assess the validity of this approach. It is an advantage 
of this approach that phenomenological invariants are 
derived directly from the experimental results and are 
as reliable as direct observations. The weaknesses of 
this approach are a continuation of its merits: by oper- 
ating with phenomenological invariants only, it is 
impossible to make any specific conclusions about why 
the values of the discussed invariants are these, and not 


any other values. Phenomenological theory quite sol- 
idly considers the problem “how”, but is almost help- 
less in explaining “why.” 


The other approach, which is traditionally denoted 
as a model approach (we believe that it is more appro- 
priate to speak of a molecular level or approach), rests 
on assuming a certain microscopic (molecular) model. 
On the basis of this model, both phenomenological 
invariants and the actual observed effects can be calcu- 
lated. The approach may be considered fruitful when it 
involves a minimal number of parameters, which have 
clear physical meaning, and the predictions allowed by 
this approach are meaningful. The major advantage of 
this approach is the clarity of elementary physical pro- 
cesses underlying the phenomenon. The principal 
drawback is that it requires an a priori model. 


The drawbacks of both approaches may be compen- 
sated by using them together, that is, by combining 
them. In this case, experimental data are interpreted in 
terms of theory of the first level (i.e., in terms of phe- 
nomenological invariants), whereas the molecular the- 
ory is used to analyze microscopic processes and prop- 
erties that bestow a specific value to the invariant. 


In this study we strive to demonstrate the advan- 
tages of the combined method by way of an example 
involving the analysis of the contributions of polariza- 
tions of diffuse and compact parts of the electrical dou- 
ble layer to conductivity during electrophoresis. 


1061-933X/94/5606-0674$12.50 © 1994 MAMK Hayxa/Interperiodica Publishing 


ELECTROPHORESIS AND ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY OF SUSPENSIONS 


BASIC SET OF EQUATIONS 


Consider an electrolyte of arbitrary composition, 
which contains ions of N types with valences z, (z > 0 
for cations and z < 0 for anions), and diffusion coeffi- 
cients D; at concentrations C;. Within the framework of 
the ionophoretic approach [2, 3], the equations for the 
flux rate of liquid v, flux pressure p,, and flux chemical 
potentials p; (these are dimensionless quantities 
reduced to RT) are as follows 


N 
nrotrotv + Vp, + RTS. Cy7,V pn, = 0, 
i=l 1 
divv = 0, (!) 


div[(1+y, (-D,Vu,;+v)] =9, 


where 7 is the viscosity of liquid, and yr) is equilib- 
rium local excess concentrations of the ions of ith type 
with respect to bulk concentration (y; is also a dimen- 
sionless quantity reduced to C;). 


The approach using chemical potentials of individ- 
ual ions is rather popular [4, 5], especially in the studies 
of systems containing ions of more than two types. 
However, formal usage of 1; variables is not always 
associated with the true understanding of the physical 
meaning of the substitution performed, or of the dra- 
matic simplifications introduced by this substitution 
into the initial set of electrokinetic equations. 


The term flux quantity refers to the thermodynamic 
force causing the associated flux. For example, the 
electrical double layer is characterized by an equilib- 
rium potential difference and equilibrium electric field; 
however, they do not cause electric current. Such an 
electric field is not a flux quantity. Polarization of the 
double layer by some external action distorts the equi- 
librium electric field; if this distortion gives rise to elec- 
tric current, the corresponding component of the poten- 
tial is a flux electric potential. 


In the set of equations of creep flow and convective 
diffusion (1), it is the local concentration excesses ¥; 
that are the most physically important quantities. Stick- 
ing to phenomenological methodology, we ignore the 
fact that the concentrations of ions at the surface of par- 
ticles are different from concentrations in bulk; we 
assume that this difference does exist and is confined to 
a relatively thin layer. 


The procedure described in [6] makes it possible to 
express the contribution from a thin surface layer in the 
form of a boundary condition. Applying this procedure 
to equations of convective diffusion in (1) reveals that 
beyond the surface layer, the flux chemical potentials p1; 
satisfy the Laplace equation 


Au; = 0. (2) 


COLLOID JOURNAL Vol. 56 No.6 1994 


675 


At the surface of a spherical particle of radius a, the fol- 
lowing boundary condition holds true: 


On, Le A 
(-D) 571 = came ge (Ms). ) 
Ou, 
Js, = - ary: + W,, (4) 
Py, = [D,@)y(@)dzx, (5) 


0 


where J;; is the surface flux of the ions of ith type; Ig; is 
the weighed total excess of the ions of ith type in the 
surface layer. These calculations are described in detail 
in [7]; the structure and meaning of electroosmotic cor- 
rection factors W; are also discussed there. These fac- 
tors are significant for counterions and are always small 
for co-ions. As demonstrated in [8], under certain con- 
ditions, these factors may be included into Pg; as addi- 
tional components. In this study, we ignore these 
factors. 


In writing expression (5) for the total excess, we 
assume that the diffusion coefficient may be a function 
of the distance to the surface (in the simplest case this 
dependence may be stepwise, with the steps associated 
with the boundaries between structural parts of the dou- 
ble layer). However, if one assumes that the diffusion 
coefficient is constant within the surface layer, the total 
excess is equal to the product of diffusion coefficient by 
dimensionless adsorption of the ions of the ith type. 


To solve the equation of creep flow, let us make use 
of the fact that the surface layer is thin and may be con- 
sidered locally planar. The liquid outside the limits of 
the surface layer satisfies Stokes’ equations 


Nrotrotv + Vp, = 0, 
tee: (6) 
divv = 0. 
The effect of surface layer is reflected in the boundary 
conditions on the surface of a particle: 


Vs| a9 = 9 
| RTS oy a (7) 
v, x= oy as an a ye 2 
‘ > q i=] dy x=0 
Ty, = xy@)dx (8) 


(the details are described in [7]). The magnitude of 1; 
given by formula (8) is the first moment of local con- 
centration excess (adsorption is the zero moment). In 
this formula, the lower integration limit coincides with 
the position of the slipping plane, so that the integration 
is performed over only the mobile part of the surface 
layer. 


676 


Hence, we demonstrated that electrokinetic behav- 
ior of a particle with a thin surface layer is described by 
equations (2) and (6) for the bulk solution that must be 
solved with boundary conditions (3) and (7). The effect 
of the surface layer on electrokinetic phenomena is 
mediated via the quantities Ty, and T',;, which are the 
above described phenomenological invariants of the 
theory. 


ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY 
AND PHENOMENOLOGICAL INVARIANTS 


To calculate electrical conductivity, let us first cal- 
culate the distribution of flux chemical potential 1, 
around a spherical particle placed into a homogeneous 
flux of ions of the ith type (such a flux corresponds to 
the wt; gradient that is uniform over a large distance 
from the particle). Solution of the Laplace equation (2) 
satisfying the condition 


Vu 


and condition (3) is 


= A; (9) 


roo 


LL, = cosO(A,r+ B,/r’), (10) 
where B; is the induced dipole moment of a particle, 
which is given as 


5 a°A,1—-2R, 4 
C7 eR, ve 
Formula (11) involves partial polarization criterion Rel; 
(R; in abbreviated form) 

R,; = [5,7 (Da), (12) 
which actually represents the appropriately reduced 
total excess. The physical meaning of R; is the dimen- 
sionless partial surface conductivity of a particle with 
respect to the ions of the ith type. 


Variation of the flux Aj; of the ions of the ith type is 
associated with the presence of disperse particles, 
whose content in solution is characterized by a small 
volume fraction a. According to [6], this variation is 
unequivocally related to the induced dipole moment as 


Aj, = (-3B,C;D,0) /a’. (13) 

If a uniform gradient of chemical potential pL; is 
caused by external electric field E, 

A; = -z,FE/(RT), (14) 


and the variation of electric current A/ associated with 

polarization of particles is given as 
N 3 N 

AI =) z,FAj, = -5KakE 


i=l i= 


el = 2R;) 


eR) 


ZHARKIKH et al. 


where tf, is the transport number for the ions of ith type 
in solution, 


N 
i= zZiDiC/ > 7 D,C;, 
i=l 


and 


= — ) 27D,C, are the conductivity of solution. 
i=] 
Thus, the increment to conductivity associated with 
the disperse particles is described as 
N 
3 1—2R; 
Inc = = — 5 —. 
nc = (Al) /(KGE) 5 out FR, (16) 
Expression (16) is identical to the equation reported 
by O’Brien [4] for the conductivity of dilute suspen- 
sions in an electrolyte of arbitrary composition. This is 
not surprising, because all phenomenological theories 
that rely on the same initial equations produce identical 
results. Differences arise on a molecular level. 


Thus, we established that the low-frequency limit 
for the conductivity of a suspension is expressed in 
terms of R;, which is the phenomenological invariant of 
this effect. 


ELECTROPHORESIS 
AND PHENOMENOLOGICAL INVARIANTS 


To calculate the rate of electrophoresis, let us make 
use of the well-known result [9] relating the velocity of 
electrophoresis of a sphere to the velocity of electroos- 
motic slinpage at the equator of this particle: 


V, == Vio 


eph ae 3 


(17) 


r=a,@=n/2 


The slippage velocity at the equator is given by the 
combination of equations (7), (10), and (14). Finally, 


(18) 


N 
FE 
V4 = He Lael, /(1+R,). 
i=] 


This formula demonstrates that partial polarization 
criteria and moments of the surface layer, which were 
both discussed above, are the phenomenological invari- 
ants for the description of electrophoresis. 


THE ELECTRICAL DOUBLE LAYER 
AS A WHOLE AND ITS’ CONSTITUENT PARTS 


After discussing briefly the phenomenological the- 
ory, we proceed by analyzing a molecular model that 
allows the calculation of the required invariants. 

The following models are usually considered. 


COLLOID JOURNAL Vol. 56 No.6 1994 


ELECTROPHORESIS AND ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY OF SUSPENSIONS 


(a) A standard electrokinetic model, in which a fixed 
charge lies on a mathematical plane identified with the 
surface of a particle; this charge is assumed to be 
immobile, whereas the charge of the diffuse part of the 
double layer is mobile. 

(b) The Dukhin—Seminikhin model [10], which is 
different from the preceding model in that the internal 
part (adjacent to the surface of a particle) of the diffuse 
layer is assumed to be hydrodynamically immobile. 


(c) A model of mobile ions of the Stern layer, which 
supplements the standard model by assuming that the 
ions adsorbed at the surface may have a finite mobility. 
This model was qualitatively discussed in (11, 12]. 
Simonova and Shilov [13] used this model to elaborate a 
quantitative theory of electrophoresis and conductivity. 


(d) A model of a porous surface layer in which, in 
contrast to the preceding model, the adsorbed ions are 
assumed to stay within a layer of finite thickness [14, 15] 
rather than on an infinitely thin plane. 


(e) A united model may be considered that com- 
bines all characteristic structural elements of the pre- 
ceding models: a porous adsorbed layer of finite thick- 
ness, a hydrodynamically immobile part of the diffuse 
layer, and a conventional diffuse layer. 


Figure 1 compares these models. 


Let us examine whether it is justified to assign the 
Stern layer a finite thickness [models (d, e)] instead of 
identifying it with the thickness of a monolayer 
[model (c)]. The Stern isotherm of adsorption was sug- 
gested in electrochemistry to explain the patterns of 
electrocapillary curves. The following specific features 
are inherent to the corresponding experiments: the sur- 
face (of mercury) is smooth on a molecular level, that 
is, it has the least roughness available in nature; the sur- 
face possesses the highest possible energetic unifor- 
mity; the concentration of electrolyte is high (moles per 
liter) and the diffuse double layer is very thin (almost 
completely suppressed). 


The combined effect of these three features makes it 
possible to reveal the role of the structures with dimen- 
sions on a molecular scale, that is, the role of the 
adsorbed monolayer identified, as conceived, with the 
Stern layer on the surface of mercury. 


When these concepts (which are quite universal 
from a physical point of view) are applied to colloidal 
objects, the specific features of these objects are often 
ignored: a molecularly smooth surface for them is an 
exception (e.g., mica) rather than a rule; energetic uni- 
formity of any solid surface (especially crystalline) is 
very rare, nonuniformity associated, for example, with 
the presence of adsorption sites being a rule; the upper 
limit of electrolyte concentrations lies in a centimolar, 
rarely decimolar, range, which corresponds to the 
er ig of diffuse layer of the order of magnitude 
of 10 A. 


When these three specific features act together, the 
role of the structures with molecular dimensions is 
No. 6 


COLLOID JOURNAL _ Vol. 56 1994 


677 


strongly disguised, because both the roughness of the 
surface and the diffuse layer are the structures with super- 
molecular dimensions. This is why, we believe, the con- 
cept of a porous surface layer, otherwise, the Stern layer 
of finite thickness, makes it possible to reflect the specific 
features of the surface structure of colloidal particles with- 
out getting involved in detailed geometrical modeling 
(i.e., without involving the concepts of fractal surfaces). 


BINARY ELECTROLYTE 


Let us specify general formulas for a particular case 
of a1: | binary electrolyte. The situation is the simplest 
with the moments of double layer, because only the dif- 
fuse periphery of the double layer contributes to these: 


Tt = 41n((1 + exp(#6/2)) /2)/(ka)?, (19) 


where € is the potential of the slipping plane and x is 
the reciprocal radius of shielding in solution (see [7] for 
details). 

For partial surface conductivities, integral (5) gives 
a sum over individual parts of the double layer. Denot- 
ing the potential of the boundary of the diffuse layer 
[which does not coincide with ¢-potential for models (c) 
and (d)] by ws, we come to the following formula for 
conductance of the diffuse layer (the so-called Biker- 
man’s surface conductance) [16]: 


R* = (exp(FWs/2) — 1)/(ka). (20) 


We call surface conductance over other structural 
parts of the double layer additional surface conduc- 
tance. The corresponding calculations are described 
in [17] for model (c) and in [18] for model (d). 


¢-POTENTIAL 
AND PHENOMENOLOGICAL INVARIANTS 


Is ¢-potential a phenomenological invariant? By 
substituting expressions (19) for the moments into elec- 
trophoretic formula (18), one may easily show that the 
knowledge of C-potential, which is equal to 


=~(kay (IY -1y)/2 


makes it possible to predict the velocity of electro- 
phoresis only when all partial surface conductivities are 


Eee 


(a) (b) (c) (d) (e) 
ms ——- 


Fig. 1. Different models for the structure of the electrical 
double layer as a whole. (J) The volume of dielectric imper- 
meable to ions, (2) hydrodynamically immobile layer, 
(3) porous adsorption layer, (4) schematic depiction of a 
very thin adsorption layer (Stern layer), (5) outer boundary 
of the diffuse plate. See the text for discussion. 


678 


0 02° 04 06 O8 10 
D/D* 


Fig. 2. Conductivity increment as a function of the ratio 
between diffusion coefficients of potential-determining ions 


(cations) in the adsorption layer Ds and in bulk solution D*. 


(1) Gt = 1000, (2) 10000, and (3) 100000; (4) shows the 
upper limit of the increment for unipolar surface conductivity. 


Inc 
0 
-0.5 
2 
-1 
1 
- 15 
0.0001 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 
C, mol/l 


Fig. 3. Conductivity increment as a function of electrolyte 
concentration C: (7) D§/D* = 0, (2) D5/D* =0.1. 


small. When this condition holds true, C-potential is a 
phenomenological invariant. As is common in the 
development of physical theory, a more general 
approach does not eliminate one suggested earlier, but 
specifies the range of its applicability. 


If a more complex structural model of the double 
layer is considered, the ¢-potential is no longer a phe- 
nomenological invariant, even in the absence of notable 
surface conductivities. In the Dukhin—Seminikhin 
model, the region in which the liquid is hydrodynami- 
cally immobile (region 2 in Fig. 1) is assumed to be 
completely impermeable to the liquid. However, in 
more complex studies [14, 15, 19], which predomi- 
nantly elaborate on modeling the electrokinetic behav- 
ior of the adsorption layers of polymers, the flow of lig- 
uid within the layer is allowed. As demonstrated 
in [15], in some cases, the contribution of this flow 
may be taken into account simply by modifying formu- 
Jas (19) for the moments. 


ZHARKIKH et ai. 


THIN POROUS LAYER 


Let us consider in more detail the partial surface 
conductivities in model (c) (Fig. 1). The basic assump- 
tion of this model is that the adsorption of ions occurs 
in such a thin layer that the variation of potential across 
this layer may be ignored. In [17], where additional sur- 
face conductivity within the framework of this model 
was studied in detail, this property was called the iso- 
potentiality of the adsorption layer. 


The principal inferences made in [17] are as fol- 
lows. Let the adsorption of ions be described by the 
Henry—Stern equation 


M; = GCexp(-z,6), 


where M; is the concentration of adsorbed ions and G; 
is the Henry constant. For the adsorbed layer of thick- 
ness H, the potential ¢ is given by the equation 


sinh(‘Yp — ¢) = vsinh&/2; v = 2/(KH(G*G>)!2, 


where ‘¥, = 0.5In(G*/G-) is the Donnan potential. 
Using these equations one may write 


R* = (exp(¥6/2)- 1) / (ka) 
+ (H/a) (Djs/D;) Gexp(-z;$), 


where D,; is the diffusion coefficient within the 
adsorbed layer and D; is the diffusion coefficient in 
bulk solution. The first term in (21) reflects the contri- 
bution of the diffuse part of double layer (Bikerman’s 
surface conductivity), whereas the second term corre- 
sponds to additional surface conductivity associated 
with the mobility of adsorbed ions. 


Substitute (21) into formula (16) for the conductiv- 
ity increment and analyze the result for the following 
set of parameters: H = 1 A; Dt = D™; G* = 10000; G- = 1. 

Figure 2 illustrates the variation of the increment as 


a function of the ratio Dj: D* between diffusion coef- 
ficients of potential-determining ions (cations, in the 
case considered). The increment increases with an 
increase in adsorption affinity of the cations (concomi- 
tantly, the Donnan potential and ¢-potential also grow); 
it is also quite sensitive to the variation of mobility of 
potential-determining ions within the adsorption layer. 
When this mobility increases, the increment also 
increases, because the unipolar character of surface 
conductance ensured by the counterions of the diffuse 
layer is deteriorated. It was reported [6] that at any arbi- 
trarily high unipolar surface conductance, the low-fre- 
quency increment of conductivity cannot exceed the 
limiting magnitude, which is equal to 0.75 (horizontal 
line 4 in Fig. 2). The flux of adsorbed co-ions reduces 
the concentration polarization of a particle and the 
polarization pattern acquires the features characteristic 
of high-frequency limit, for which the maximum incre- 
ment is 3. 

When the mobility of mobile counterions is taken 
into account, the magnitude of the increment is affected 
only slightly (the variation amounts to hundredths of 


(21) 


COLLOID JOURNAL Vol. 56 No.6 1994 


ELECTROPHORESIS AND ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY OF SUSPENSIONS 


a fraction, which is indistinguishable on the scale of 
Fig. 2). 

Figure 3 shows the variation of the increment with 
electrolyte concentration. As can be seen, when there is 
no flux of the adsorbed co-ions (curve /), the increment 
first slightly increases because of the increased charge 
of the double layer (one should keep in mind that it is 
the concentration of potential-determining ions that is 
plotted on the abscissa). When the concentration is 
increased further, the increment decreases because of 
the increasing conductivity of bulk solution. The 
nobility of adsorbed co-ions results in a significantly 
greater increment, which monotonically decreases as 
the concentration of electrolyte is increased. In this 
case, the concentration dependence of the increment is 
more prominent. 


Generally, analysis of the particular case examined 
here allows a conclusion that the conductivity incre- 
ment is rather sensitive to the mobility of adsorbed co- 
ions; the magnitude of this mobility can be determined 
in complex studies involving the studies of the adsorp- 
tion of ions and of conductivity in a wide concentration 
range. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 


The authors wish to thank the International Associ- 
ation for Collaboration between the Scientists of the 
Independent States of the Former Soviet Union and the 
State Committee for Science and Technology of the 
Ukraine for financial support of this study. 


REFERENCES 


1. Dukhin, S.S., Adv. Colloid Interface Sci., 
p. 1. : 

2. Shilov, V.N., Zharkikh, N.L, and Borkovskaya, Yu.B., 
Kolloidn. Zh., 1985, vol. 47, p. 757. 

3. Shilov, V.N., Zharkikh, N.U., and Borkovskaya, Yu.B., 
Kolloidn. Zh., 1985, vol. 47, p. 927. 


1993, vol. 44, 


COLLOID JOURNAL Vol. 56 No.6 1994 


4. 


5. 


. Zharkikh, 


. Dukhin, S.S. and Seminikhin, N.M., Kolloidn. Zh., 


. Simonova, T.S. and Shilov, V.N., Kolloidn. Zh., 


. Ohshima, H., J. Colloid Interface Sci., 


679 
O’Brien, R.W., J. Colloid Interface Sci., 1983, vol. 92, 
p. 204. 


Kyjlstra, J., van Leuven, M.D., and Lyklema, J., 
J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans. 1, 1992, vol. 88, p. 3341. 


. Dukhin, S.S. and Shilov, V.N., Dielektricheskie Yav- 


leniya i Dvoinoi Sloi vy Dispersnykh Sistemakh i Poliele- 
ktrolitakh (Dielectric Phenomena and the Double Layer 
in Disperse Systems and Polyelectrolytes), Kiev: Nauk- 
ova Dumka, 1972. 


N.L and -Borkovskaya, Yu.B., Fiziko- 
Khimicheskaya Mekhanika i Liofil’nost’ Dispesnykh 
Sistem (Physicochemical Mechanics and Lyophilicity of 
Disperse Systems), Kiev: Naukova Dumka, 1985, 
vol. 17, p. 76. 


. Razilov, 1.A., Pendze, G., and Dukhin, S.S., Colloid. J., 


1994, vol. 56, no. 5, p. 610. 


. Dukhin, S.S. and Derjaguin, B.V., Elekrroforez (Electro- 


phoresis), Moscow: Nauka, 1976. 


1970, 
vol. 32, p. 360. 


. Dukhin, S.S., Issledovaniya v Oblasti Poverkhnostnykh 


Sil (Studies of Surface Forces), Moscow: Nauka, 1967, 
p. 335. 


. Lyklema, J., Dukhin, S.S., and Shilov, V.N., J. Electroa- 


nal. Chem., 1983, vol. 143, p. 1. 


1986, 
vol. 48, p. 370. 


. Yaroshchuk, A.E., Kolloidn. Zh., 1985, vol. 47, no. 5, 


p. 1006. 
1994, vol. 163, 
p. 80. 


. Dukhin, S.S. and Derjaguin, B.V., Electrokinetic. Phe- 


nomena, Matijevic, E., Ed., Surface Colloid Sci. Ser., 
vol. 7, New York: Wiley, 1974. 


. Zharkikh, N.I., Pendze, X., and Dukhin, S.S., Colloid. J., 


1994, vol. 56, no. 5, p. 571. 


. Zharkikh, N.I., Vincent, B., ped Dukhin, S.S., Colloid. J., 


1994, vol. 56. 


. Donath, E. and Pastushenko, V., Bioelectrochem. Bioen- 


erg., 1979, vol. 6, p. 343. 


