WS5YI 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


REPORT 


Up to the minute news from the world of amateur radio, personal computing 
and emerging electronics. While no guarantee is made, information is from 
sources we believe to be reliable. May be reproduced providing credit is 


given to The W5Y! Report. 


Fred Maia, W5YI, Editor, P.O. Box 565101, Dallas, TX 75356-5101 
Electronic mail: fmaia@internetMCl.com 


Tel. 817-461-6443 


Vol. 18, Issue #11 $1.50 


PUBLISHED TWICE A MONTH 


* In This Issue * 


Dayton HamVention - 1996 

Remarks by FCC at Forum include: 
Telecom Act, Digital Changes, 
NPRM WT95-57, IARP, Vanity Calls 

FASC Releases Discussion Paper on 
“Ham Radio in the 21st Century” 
Amateur Radio Definition, Banned 
Country List, Emergency and Third 
Party Communications, Morse Code, 
Ham Qualifications ...Satellite Service 

Amateur Call Signs Issued to 5/7 

Ham Jammer Loses Ticket for Life! 

ARRL Opposes TAPR STA Proposal 

FCC Approves Family Radio Service 

...and much much more! 


June 1, 1996 


DAYTON HAMVENTION HELD MAY 17, 18, 19 


This was the first year that the Dayton Ham- 
Vention was not held the last weekend in April. A 
change was made to the third weekend in May due 
to a long conflict with University of Dayton gradua- 
tion. The threatening weather held off and the con- 
vention was generally well attended. Attendance 
estimates ranged from 30,000 to 35,000. General 
Chairman Ken Allen, KB8KE and his many commit- 
tees did an outstanding job. The Governor of Ohio, 
County Commissioners and the Mayor of Dayton 
proclaimed May 13-19 as Amateur Radio Week. 

As always, there were plenty of hospitality 
rooms, “get-togethers” and dinner meetings held 
after exhibit hours in the various downtown and out- 
lying hotels. The flea market got going at the crack 
of dawn (6:00 a.m.) and covered some 24 acres! 

The Grand Banquet held Saturday evening had 
a sellout crowd of 900 ...less than usual due to the 
unavailability of the larger ballroom at the Dayton 
Convention Center. Award winners: Bill Tynan, 
W3xXO, John Kraus, W8JK and Bill Orr, W6SAI were 
honored. Banquet speaker, Dr. Paul Shuch, N6TX 
(an electronics professor at the Pennsylvania Col- 
lege of Technology) told about his search for intelli- 
gent life in space. Shuch is Executive Director of 
the SETI League, Inc., a non-profit group set up to 
support the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence. 
The major banquet and Hamvention door prizes 
were donated by ICOM America, Yaesu, Japan 
Radio Co., and Alinco. 


FCC Forum held Sunday morning, May 19. 


John B. Johnston, W3BE (who oversees ama- 
teur radio in the FCC’s Washington, DC Wireless 
Telecommunications Bureau) started by saying that 
the previous year was a busy one for the Commis- 
sion. 

“The Telecommunications Act of 1996 was enacted. 
We held some spectrum auctions. Electronic filing by your 
VECs has become the standard. Some of the VECs are 
electronically filing applications directly from the exam 
room so that you can get on the air within a few hours. 
Automatic renewal notification came on-line and licensing 
of club stations was resumed. Your access to the 219- 
220 MHz band was affirmed. You came up with a novel 
approach to the newer digital modes. 

“We initiated a Notice of Proposed Rule Making for 
your comments on various and sundry items. There was 
the vanity call sign system. 


License examination administrative changes 


“The TeleCom Act eliminated two unpopular require- 
ments of your VEC system. First, the law prohibited pub- 
lishers and manufacturers and their employees from being 
VEs. The purpose probably was to prevent the appear- 
ance of favoritism toward examinees who buy certain 
manuals or equipment. 

“All of your exams, however are drawn from the 
same pools. Each exam is administered by three VEs and 
coordinated by one of your VECs. Itis highly unlikely that 
anyone could unfairly benefit. 

“The most controversial unintended consequence 
was to prohibit instructors from administering license 


THE W5Y! REPORT [Pub. No. 009-3111] is published twice monthly by The W5YI Group, 2000 E, Rando! Mill Rd, #608A, Arlington, TX. 76011 
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: (U.S., Canada and Mexico) One Year (24 issues) $24.50 * Two Years: $45.00 © Three Years: $64.00. Tel. 817/461-6443 
Foreign Subscriptions via Air Mail: $39.50 per year. (Payment may be made by Check, Money Order, VISA or MasterCard payable in U.S. funds.) 
Second Class Postage paid at Arlington, TX. POSTMASTER: Send address changes to THE W5Y! REPORT, P.O. Box 565101, Dallas, TX. 75356 


WSYI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


examinations when they distributed manuals to their students. 

“Secondly, your VEs had to keep records of their ex- 
penses and to annually certify them. Many of your VEs forwent 
reimbursement rather than go to all of that trouble. The maxi- 
mum allowable examination reimbursement fee of $6.07 should 
be enough to keep your expenses necessary and prudent. 


Digital communications 


“To many people, one of the most astounding aspects of 
amateur radio is that the way has cleared for you to 
communicate with other hams in every country of the world. 
There are some conditions in the international Radio 
Regulations that are necessary to make this possible. One is 
*.. that transmissions between amateur stations in different 
countries be in plain language.’ Your rules, therefore, prohibits 
transmitting in codes or ciphers intended to obscure the mean- 
ing. 

“As digital communications have evolved over the years, 
there have been a number of accommodations made in the 
rules in order to satisfy to those conditions. First, there was the 
Baudot code for RTTY. There was an international standard 
that could be specified in the rules. The rationale being that 
because there is a standard, then messages in Baudot are in a 
plain language. 

“Next came ASCII. Again there was an international 
standard that the rules could specify. Then came AMTOR. 
Strictly speaking, there is no international standard for AMTOR, 
but it is based on an international standard that can be cited. 

“Around this time, you were able to obtain personal com- 
puters and some of you started developing your own digital 
codes. You got around the international agreements by using 
your codes in domestic communications only. You used the 
shorter wavelength bands where international communication is 
unlikely (1.25 m). 

“Paul Rinaldo [W4RI, ARRL Tech Manager] pointed out 
that some of you were concerned about the propriety of using 
the new codes on the HF bands because your rules specified 
only Baudot, ASCII, and AMTOR. So, the League worked with 
the developers of CLOVER, G-TOR, and PacTOR codes to doc- 
ument the technical characteristics so there would be standards 
to reference in the rules. Now they authorize your stations to 
use any digital code that has had its technical characteristics 
documented. 

RM-8737 is a petition from the League. It wants to ex- 
pand the types of spread spectrum transmissions that are auth- 
orized. 


Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, WT95-57 


“The National Conference of VECs wants recognition for 
your session managers. The League wants the eligibility for a 
club station license to be increased to four members. Currently, 
only two are required. Each of you may hold only one, but only 
one, station license having only one call sign. 

“When you append a self-assigned indicator to your call 
sign, the rules require that it come after your call sign. Some of 
you want to append it to the front. The FCC proposed all pos- 
sible combinations. 

“You had asked that we reserve a block of 750 one-by- 
one call signs for temporary use by your special event stations. 
This item also proposed that your VEs give exam credit to form- 


Page #2 


June 1, 1996 


er amateur operators. We have under consideration your 27 
comments. 


International Amateur Radio Permit 


“RM-8677 is another petition from the league. This one is 
to implement the /nter-American Convention on an Intemational 
Amateur Radio Permit. CITEL is a component of the Organiza- 
tion of American States. |t is developing a mechanism modeled 
after the triple AAA's International Driver's Permit that would 
also provide for reciprocal operation. 

“Instead of obtaining a reciprocal operating permit from 
the FCC in order to operate in the U.S., citizens of Argentina, 
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, Mexico, Paraguay, 
Peru and Uruguay would obtain an IARP in their home country. 
Currently, we issue about 125 reciprocal permits annually to 
hams from these countries. 

“The League is the U.S. member organization of the 
IARU. The ARRL has offered its services to the Department of 
State to issue the IARPs to those of you planning on traveling to 
those countries. 


Vanity call signs... 


“Most of the good unassigned call signs were those of 
hams no longer with us. These are the very ones that those of 
you who have worked hard for your Extra want to get. You told 
us that a first-come-first-served system would be fair, but you 
want some linkage between the sequential and the vanity sys- 
tems. You want former holders to have first crack at their old 
call signs. You want close relatives of former holders now de- 
ceased to have first crack at those call signs. 

“You want Extras to reach into the call sign cookie jar be- 
fore Advanced. You want Advanced to go before Generals, 
Techs and Novices. You want the club to which the deceased 
ham belonged to be able to get a jump on the call sign before 
other hams. 

The purpose of Gate 1(A) is a short-term priority for old- 
line club stations to get the call signs of deceased members. 
The club must have held a license on March 24, 1995, the date 
the FCC resumed licensing new club stations. 

That date was picked so that individuals would not form 
clubs merely to gain early access to the good call signs. Club 
trustees can still apply for call signs, in memoriam, when the 
gates open for their class of operator license. 


“The order of selection is: 

1) Former holders [Gate 1]; 

2) Close relatives of deceased former holders [Gate 1]; 

3) Clubs of the deceased former holders, with close relative’s 
approval [Gate 1(A)]; 

4) Amateur Extra operators and club stations for which they 
are license trustees [Gate 2]; 

5) Advanced class operators and club stations for which they 
are license trustees [Gate 3]; 

6) All other operators and clubs [Gate 4]. 


“When you become a ham, the sequential system assigns 
your station a call sign according to the region of your mailing 
address and your license class. There are thirteen call sign 
tegions. They have evolved from the nine Naval Districts as 
they existed early in this Century. In your comments, there was 
a call for a strict conformance to the regions so that you can 


WS5YI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


determine the location of the station. 

“Both systems allow you to have a call sign corresponding 
to your class and mailing address. Unless you ask, your call 
sign is never changed regardless of where you move or up- 
grade. The choice is yours. Knowing your call sign, anyone 
can find your mailing address and operator class. The infor- 
mation is available in several formats. 

“To find your options under the vanity system, there are 
several tools that you will need. The first is the current version 
of the Fact Sheet that describes the sequential system. It is 
PR-5000 #206 dated February 1995. [Copies of this form - and 
others - are available from the W5Y1 Office without charge. 

P.O. Box 565101, Dallas, TX 75356. Please include a large 
self-addressed stamped envelope.] 

“The sequential system apportions out the 15 million pos- 
sible call sign combinations into four groups: Group A is for 
Amateur Extra; Group B is for Advanced; Group C is for Tech- 
nician, Technician Plus, and General; and Group D is for Novice 
and clubs. The sequential system also designated certain prefix 
and numeral combinations for your thirteen regions. [Region 1 
through 10 correspond to call sign district 1 through 0. Region 
11 is Alaska, Region 12, Caribbean and Region 13 is Hawaii 
and Pacific areas.] 

“You will need a copy of the licensee data base. You're go- 
ing to search out those call signs that are not assigned. You 
want the latest version you can get. Several parties are down- 
loading the data base and making it available. Any recent ver- 
sion may serve your purpose now. After the system gets rolling, 
however, the more recent the data base you are using, the more 
successful you will be. [The W5Y! Group offers a custom made 
call sign availability computer disk for $15.95.] There are over 
700,000 listings. Of course, you'll be looking for the 14 million 
call signs that are not listed. 

“You will need a FCC Form 610-V. That is the form that you 
use to request a vanity call sign. You mail it to our fee collection 
contractor: 


Federal Communications Commission 
Amateur Vanity Call Sign Request 
P.O. Box 358924 

Pittsburgh, PA 15251-5924 


Include your check [payable to the FCC] for $30.00. 

“You are going to need Fact Sheet PR5000 Number 206-V. 
The current version is dated October 1995. It describes the 
procedures of the vanity system. 

“A ‘vanity call sign’ is one that is selected from your list. 

Only primary stations and club stations are eligible. RACES 
and military recreation stations are not. On the Form 610-V, 
you list up to 25 call signs in order of your preference. Write 
those call signs as clearly as possible. Some of you are going 
to have to write a lot better than you have been on your appli- 
cations. 

“If the processor can't be sure of what you have written, they 
will skip down your list until they find one that can be read. You 
must give the exact prefix, numeral, and suffix for each call sign. 
The system only works with actual call signs. Do not use gen- 
eral terms such as ‘Any call with my initials’ or ’Any 1-by-2.’ 

“The application will be processed in the order they are re- 
ceived from the fee contractor. When that instant in time arrives 
for your application, the processor will key stroke the call signs 


Page #3 
June 1, 1996 


from your list -- one-by-one -- until there is a match with an 
assignable call sign for your operator class and the region of 
your mailing address. 

“At that point, your current call sign is replaced with the 
vanity call sign. You can begin using it just as soon as it 
appears on the data base. Your vacated call sign will not be- 
come available for reassignment for two years. There are three 
exceptions to the two year eligibility policy. I'll explain hat ina 
moment. 

“Your class of operator license determines your eligibility for 
a call sign group: 

Amateur Extra Class - Group A, B, C or D. 

Advanced Class - Group B, C or D 

General, Tech Plus or Technician Class - Group C or D 
Novice Class - Group D. 

“There is one exception to that which I'll explain at a more 
appropriate point. 

“Your mailing address determines your eligibility for prefix. 
If your mailing address is anyplace where the U.S. Postal Ser- 
vice delivers mail, you are eligible for a call sign corresponding 
to any Region 1 through 10... W1, K2, etc. For a call sign in 
Region 11, 12 or 13, your mailing address must be at a place 
corresponding to the call sign requested. 


“Again, the eligibility policies are: 

) A vacated call sign becomes assignable after two years, 
Your operator class determines the call sign group: A, B, C 
or D; 

Your mailing address determines the format and region 
number; 


“Now about those three exceptions to the three policies. 
The first policy is for a former holder. For you, all three 
exceptions do apply: 

1) You do not have to wait two years before applying for your 
old call sign; 

2) You do not have to hold the operator class corresponding to 
the call sign group, 

3) You do not have to have a mailing address in the region of 
the call sign. 


“The second policy is for a close relative of the former hold- 
er, now deceased. Only two of the exceptions apply: 
1) You do not have to wait the two years following death before 
applying for the call sign. 
2) You do not have to have a mailing address in the region of 
the call sign. 
A close relative, however, does have to hold the operator class 
corresponding to the call sign Group. 


“Who are your close relatives? They are the same people 
to whom you cannot administer the examinations. They include 
your spouses, children, grandchildren, parents, grandparents, 
siblings, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and in-laws. 


“The third policy is for a club station that requests a call sign 
in memoriam. With the consent of a close relative a club station 
can obtain the call sign in memory of the deceased. This ex- 
ception also applies to only two of the three policies: 


1) The club does not have to wait two years following the death 
of the holder. 
2) The club does not have to have a mailing address in the 


WSYI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


region of the call sign. If the Dayton Amateur Radio Club 
can get written concurrence from a close relative of Smurd- 
ley, it can get that KH6 call sign. 


“Gate 1(A) will be a special opportunity for an old-line radio 
club in which Smurdley was a member to request his old call 
sign in-memoriam. This is not open to these new clubs that 
have sprung up over the past year. The club must have held a 
license on March 24, 1995. 

“The license trustee of a club making an in-memoriam re- 
quest, however, does have to hold the operator class corres- 
ponding to the call sign Group. 

“Now all of this is not going to start on day one. There will 
be a series of gates. Each gate will open the system to another 
group. If you file before your gate opens, your application will 
be dismissed. There will be a public notice announcing each 
gate. 

“Gate 1 will open May 31st. Itis to provide a short-term 
priority to former holders and, where the former holders are 
deceased, to their relatives who hold the necessary class of 
operator license. 

“The former holder exceptions apply. If you once held a 
Group A call and you are now a codeless Technician, you are 
eligible to get it back. If you want the call sign of your deceased 
relative, you do not have to have a mailing address in the 
tegion. You do have to have the proper operator class. 

“When the dust settles from Gate 1, Gate 1(A) will be open- 
ed. The exact opening date should be announced within the 
next couple of weeks. It is for your club to request in-memoriam 
the call signs of former members. For this gate, you club must 
have held a club station license grant on the day that issuing 
club station licenses resumed: March 24, 1995. If your club was 
licensed after that date, you will have to wait until your license 
trustee becomes eligible under a later gate. 

“For an Extra, that opportunity arrives at Gate 2. Starting on 
that date, an Extra can apply for any assignable call sign from 
any group for the primary station of for the club station. An 
Extra Class trustee can also make a request in-memoriam for 
the club station. 

“Starting with Gate 3, Advanced Class operators can start 
applying. The system opens to any class operator at Gate 4. 
That will be the end of the Gates. From then on, any amateur 
operator can request a vanity call sign. 

“Now let's look at the answers to some interesting questions 
that we've actually received, The call signs that I'll mention are 
for example only. The have been altered to protect the identi- 
ties of the questioners. 


GATES 


Q. When is Gate 1 going to open? 
. May 31st. 


A 

Q. When will Gate 1(A) open? 

A. My guess is that Gate 1(A) should probably open about a 
month after Gate 1 opens. (Johnston also guessed that 
Gate 2 would open a month after than and that all gate 
would be open by this fall. This, of course, depends upon 
how many applications are submitted and how smoothly the 
system is working.] 


. How can | be moved to the head of the line when the gate 


Page #4 


June 1, 1996 


for my license class opens? 

. Except for the former holder provisions, it is first-come, first- 
served. You can increase your chances by carefully making 
your selection of preferred call signs from those that are 
currently unassigned for your license class and mailing 
address. 


. Can | mail my application to the bank the day before the 
gate opens and gamble on it arriving just after the gate 
opens? 

. That's up to you. There's no assurance that you will win. 


. For which call signs am | eligible? | have never held 
another call sign and | don't have any dead relatives that 
were hams. 

. You are eligible for any unassigned call sign for your 
operator class. Unless your mailing address is in Alaska, 
Hawaii or Pacific or Caribbean Insular Areas, you cannot 
request a call sign designated for those places. 


. Am | eligible for my former call sign KZ5XX that | had while | 
was in the Canal Zone? 

. Yes. You are considered a former holder although the 
license you formerly had was issued by the Department of 
Interior. The KZ5 series is now administered by the FCC. 


FORMAT & PREFIX 


Q. | aman Extra Class operator and my mailing address is 
Dayton, Ohio. What call sign prefix can | request. 

A. Unless you are the former holder, or a close relative of the 
former holder, you can request Group A, B. C or D call signs 
for Regions 1 through 10. You will be eligible when Gate 2 
opens. 


. |am an Advanced Class operator and my mailing address is 
Agana, Guam. What call sign format and prefix can | 
request? 

. Unless you are the former holder, or a close relative of the 
former holder, you can request two letter suffix call signs 
having the prefix AH2, KH2, NH2, or WH2. You can also 
request three letter suffix call signs having the prefix KH2 or 
Wb2. Further, you can also request Group B, C or D call 
signs for Regions 1 through 10. You will be eligible to file 
when Gate 3 opens. 


. | amin the military overseas. My operator class is General. 
My mailing address is in APO New York, NY. What call sign 
format and prefix can | request? 

Unless you are the former holder, or a close relative of the 
former holder, you can request Group C or D call signs for 
Regions 1 through 10. You will be eligible to file when Gate 
4 opens. 


MULTIPLE CALL SIGNS 


Q. | want a vanity call sign but | also want to retain my present 
call sign. Is there some way that | can get a vanity call sign 
for my primary station and move my present call sign to a 
new club station? 

. That cannot be guaranteed. When you obtain a new call 
sign, you vacate your present call sign. Assuming that a 
former holder, or the relative of a former holder doesn't re- 
claim it, it goes into limbo for two years after which you, as a 


WS5YI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


club license trustee, and other eligibles can apply for it. If 
you die, however, your relative, or your club with the con- 
sent of your relative, can obtain the call sign immediately, 
provided they hold the proper class of operator license. You 
might also consider simply requesting the new vanity call 
sign for your club station. 


. My wife and | are both hams. We want to obtain call signs 
having the same suffix. Can we submit our applications 
stapled together? 

. That might work, but they could become separated before 
they reach the processor's work station. 


. What if | obtain a vanity call sign, and then my wife applies 
listing 25 call signs having the same suffix? 

. That should increase your chances. There may be other 
ways that might result in what you want to have happen. 


PASSING ON CALL SIGNS 


. Is there any way that | can designate who gets my call sign 
after | die? 
. No. That is a matter left to your close relatives. 


. Which relative has priority? 
. The one whose application document arrives at the bank 
first. 


. Is there some way that | can get a vanity call sign for my 
primary station and my son get my current call sign? 

. That cannot be guaranteed. When you obtain a new call 

sign, you vacate your present call sign. It also goes in limbo 

for two years after which your son and other eligibles can 

apply for it. If you die, however, he and your other relatives 

are eligible to apply for it immediately, 


. My deceased close relative had a call sign back in the 
1920s that did not have a letter prefix (such as 3XX, for 
example). Can | get that call sign? 

. No. Such call signs are not in the sequential system. 


. Those call signs were later given the prefix ‘W.' Am| 
eligible for W3XX? 

. You are eligible if your relative actually held call sign W3XX 

and it is otherwise assignable. Otherwise, no. 


. My best friend died recently. In his will, he stipulated that 
his Group C call sign should go to me. | am an Advanced 
Class operator. 

. Because you are not a close relative of the deceased, you 

are not eligible to request the call sign until it becomes 

generally assignable two years following the person’s death. 


. Do! have any other options? 

. You could form a radio club and obtain a club station license 
with yourself as the license trustee. With the consent of a 
close relative, you could apply in-memoriam when Gate 3 
opens. 


. I've held my call sign for over 50 years, and | can't bear the 
thought of it going to some new ham. Is there some way | 
can have it retired? 

. No. [But a close family member could obtain an operator's 
license of the appropriate class and apply for your call im- 
mediately after death, never use it and continually renew it] 


Page #5 


June 1, 1996 


. | do not want to give up my present 1x3. My deceased 


father held a 1x3 and the family doesn't want it assigned to 
anyone else. Can we have it set aside or retired? 


A. No. You might consent to have your father’s call sign 


assigned to a club station in-memoriam. 


. How soon does an expired call sign become available? 
. Normally two years following license expiration, surrender, 


revocation, set aside, cancellation, voiding, or death of the 
grantee. Where the grantee dies, however, the call sign is 
assignable immediately to the primary station of a close 
relative and to a club station in-memoriam. 


CLUB STATIONS 


. How many club station licenses can the same club hold? 
. There is no limit. 


. Does this mean that one person can obtain a number of 


vanity call signs? 


; Ves, 


. ls there a limit on the number of clubs for which the same 


amateur can be the trustee. 
No. 


. Does the mailing address for the club station trustee have to 


be the same as the mailing address for his or her primary 
station? 


A. No. They can be different. 


. We want to honor the memory of a former member of our 


club who is now deceased by obtaining his old call sign for 
our club station. How can we do this? 


. Obtain a letter consenting to the assignment from a close 


relative of the deceased person. If your club station had a 
license grant as of March 24, 1995, your club station license 
trustee is eligible to apply beginning at Gate 1(A). 


. The former member we want to honor died less than two 


years ago. Are we still eligible to apply? 


. Yes, provided your club station had a license grant as of 


March 24, 1995. Otherwise, you will have to wait until the 
Gate opens for your class of operator license. 


. Our club station did not receive a license grant until after 


March 24, 1995. How can we obtain the former call sign of 
a deceased member in-memoriam for our club station? 


. Ifa person has been dead for at least two years, and if the 


license trustee is Amateur Extra Class, the application can 
be filed beginning with Gate 2. If Advanced Class, this 
application can be filed beginning with Gate 3, If any other 
class, the application can be filed when Gate 4 opens. 


. We want to honor the memory of a non-member of our club 


who is now deceased by obtaining his old call sign for our 
club station. How can we do this? 


. Ifthe person died more than two years ago, the call sign is 


assignable to the first eligible requestor. A club can apply 
starting at Gate 2 if the trustee is Amateur Extra Class, at 
Gate 3 if Advanced Class, or Gate 4 if any other class. 


. But the person just died. Do we have to wait two years? 
. You do unless you obtain a letter from a close relative of the 


deceased consenting to the assignment 


WSYI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 
AMATEUR RADIO IN THE 21ST CENTURY 


ARRL Exec. VP Dave Sumner, K1ZZ recently furnish- 
ed us with a copy of the Discussion Paper being circulat- 
ed by the International Amateur Radio Union's Future of 
the Amateur Service Committee (FASC) to the various 
amateur radio societies of the world. The 20-page IARU 
document was prepared by a six person blue ribbon panel 
selected by IARU president, Dick Baldwin, W1RU. 

The April 1996 Discussion Paper looks toward formu- 
lating the needs of the Amateur Services for the next cen- 
tury. The Committee consists of Chairman Michael 
Owen, VK3KI, and members: John Bazley G3HCT, Tom 
Atkins VE3CDM, Terry Carrell ZL3QL, Larry Price W4RA 
and David Sumner K1ZZ. In addition, Dick Baldwin, 
W1RU is an ex officio member of the Committee. 


Background of the Discussion Paper 


The World Radiocommunication Conference 1995 
adopted the following resolution (Resolution GT PLEN-S5) 
calling for the inclusion of the following item in the Prelimi- 
nary Agenda for the 1999 World Radiocommunication 
Conference: 

— 2.2 Consideration of Article S25 concerning the ama- 
teur and amateur-satellite services” 

with a view to formulating appropriate changes (if any) to 

the Radio Regulations. 

The IARU is therefore developing a policy in respect 
of that agenda item and the committee has been given 
the task of assisting the development of that policy. This 
Discussion Paper is the first step in that process. It pro- 
vides a vehicle for debate by the amateur community and 
attempts to identify the relevant issues, provide the back- 
ground, and offer some possible solutions. It does not 
express the final view of the Committee, any IARU region 
or the IARU itself. 

The issues are complex ...and there may be more 
issues than first identified. That is why the FASC seeks 
as many responses as possible to the issues raised by 
the consideration of Article S25 

The section of the international Radio Regulations 
dealing with the amateur and amateur satellite services 
are to be found in Article S25. The Radio Regulations are 
part of a treaty between nations and do not of themselves 
impose obligations on amateurs. Instead they provide the 
guidelines to the various countries on how they are to reg- 
ulate the amateur service. These conditions are 


+ Communication between amateurs of different coun- 
tries is to be prohibited if one country objects; 

+ Messages are to be limited to plain language, about 
technical or personal matters and of such unimport- 
ance that the use of a public communications system 
would not be justified; 

- Communications on behalf of third parties is prohibit- 


Page #6 
June 1, 1996 


ed, though the Article permits countries to make 
arrangements to allow such communications; 
Amateur licensees using frequencies below 30 MHz 
must have demonstrated an ability to send and re- 
ceive Morse; 

Administrations shall take such measures as they 
think necessary to verify the operational and technical 
qualifications of amateurs; 

The maximum power of amateur stations is to be fix- 
ed by administrations, having regard to the operators’ 
technical qualifications and the conditions under 
which the stations operate; 

All the general Radio Regulations apply to amateur 
stations, which shall be stable and free from spurious 
emissions; 

Amateur stations shall transmit their call signs at short 
intervals; 

The same provisions apply to the amateur satellite 
service; and 

Amateur space stations must have sufficient earth 
command stations and be fitted with devices so that 
harmful interference can be terminated. 


What are the issues? 


The FASC has identified several subjects on which 
they seek comments. 


1) The definition of the “amateur service": 

That definition has not been significantly changed since the 
first international regulation of radio. The FASC asks if it is still 
suitable? 

FASC Recommendation: “The present definition is: 
$1.56 Amateur Service: A radiocommunication service for the 
purpose of self-training, intercommunication and technical in- 
vestigations carried out by amateurs, that is, by duly authorized 
persons interested in radio technique solely with a personal aim 
and without pecuniary interest. 

“We are of the opinion that the definition of ‘Amateur Ser- 
vice’ in the present Regulations is entirely appropriate and that 
no change should be considered.” 


2) The banned country list: 

Should the Radio Regulations leave it to administrations to 
prohibit or permit their amateurs to engage in international com- 
munications, or should the international Regulations them- 
selves prohibit such communications if one country objects? 
Does it matter? 

FASC Recommendation: “We suggest that this could be re- 
placed by a provision that provides, in effect, that Article S25 
does not oblige an administration to authorize amateur stations 
under its jurisdiction to engage in international communication 
except for distress and safety communication.” 


3) Resource for emergency communications: 

Should Article S25 include a provision encouraging the 
amateur service to provide emergency communications? Does 
the prohibition of international communications on behalf of 
third parties inhibit the development of emergency communi- 
cation nets? Is the ability of the amateur service to provide 


WS5YI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


emergency communications inhibited by the nature of the 
messages permitted to be transmitted by amateur stations? 
FASC Recommendation: “We are concerned that the prohibi- 
tion of carrying messages on behalf of third parties and the re- 
striction on what may be transmitted by an amateur station may 
work against the growth of the ability of the amateur service to 
provide emergency communications. 

We are of the view that a change that could be considered 
is that S25.4 could be reversed, in the same way as S25.1 
allows communications between amateur stations of different 
countries unless one of the countries concerned has notified 
that it objects. 

We believe that a provision should be inserted into the 
Radio Regulations to encourage administrations to permit ama- 
teurs stations they license to not only to transmit emergency 
messages, but to be prepared to do so. 


4) Messages on behalf of a third party: 

The FASC does not question the right of a nation to pro- 
hibit its amateurs from carrying messages on behalf of a third 
party. The Committee does, however, believe that any mess- 
ages so carried must be non commercial and not carried for 
reward. They question whether or not the attitudes that existed 
when the international prohibition was included in the Regula- 
tions have changed and raise the question whether the prohi- 
bition is really consistent with the international use of store and 
forward techniques. Should the international prohibition remain 
in the Regulations? Would its removal enhance the ability of 
the amateur service to provide emergency communications? 
FASC Recommendation: “Our tentative view is that what is 
loosely called ‘third party’ by amateurs, which does not include 
any commercial or paid messages, should not be prohibited by 
the international regulations. Certainly the removal of the pro- 
hibition would remove any doubt as to the legality of modes of 
international communication using store and forward techni- 
ques. It is appropriate to emphasize that this change would not 
in any way obligate an administration to permit its amateurs to 
conduct communications on behalf of third parties, international 
or otherwise.” 


5) Technical and operational qualifications: 

The FASC believes that the technical and operational qual- 
ifications to be an amateur are fundamental to the privileges 
that are given to the amateur service. The appropriate prereq- 
uisites are essential to distinguish the amateur service from 
other use of the spectrum. However, the present Regulations 
do not set a "standard," but leave that to each administration. 

If it is considered desirable that some standard be set, the 
FASC would not suggest an elaborate curriculum, rather the 
identification of basic topics on which knowledge should be 
demonstrated. 

Should the Article set some standard for the technical and 
operational qualifications for the amateur service? How can 
this be made flexible? If a standard is "incorporated by refer- 
ence," should the standard be mandatory? 

FASC Recommendation: “It is of fundamental importance 
to administrations as well as to radio amateurs that the amateur 
service be limited to operators who are qualified both technical- 
ly and operationally. Amateurs share the radio spectrum with a 
myriad of other radiocommunication services, and share their 


Page #7 
June 1, 1996 


relatively narrow bands with one another. They must be quali- 
fied to assume the responsibility for the safe installation and 
proper operation of their stations. They must possess the abil- 
ity to intercommunicate with one another, to ensure that their 
equipment will not cause harmful interference to other services 
in normal operation, and to resolve such interference whenever 
it may arise. They must understand the obligations that arise 
from the privilege of operating radio transmitters.” 

Therefore, FASC believes that technical and operational 
topics should be identified which would still permitting each 
administration to set its own standard of knowledge of the 
specified topics. 


6) Morse code: 

The FASC does not question the value of Morse code as a 
means of communication, nor do they question the right of an 
administration to require its amateurs to demonstrate a skill in 
Morse code. At present, Morse code as a qualification is a 
treaty obligation covered in $25.5. 

The FASC points out that it is dealing with guidelines that 
will govern the amateur service in the next century. It therefore 
asks, should testing the Morse code ability of certain amateur 
licensees be retained as a treaty obligation? If so, what are the 
reasons that administrations would find persuasive? 

FASC Recommendation: “In 1994 the IARU CW Ad Hoc Com- 
mittee concluded that it remains essential for radio amateurs 
using the bands below 30 MHz to be able to intercommunicate 
without regard to equipment or language barriers, to ensure the 
orderly shared use of a limited resource.” It also observed that 
“future technical developments may provide an alternative 
means for ensuring that amateur stations can intercommuni- 
cate, and that these new means could become sufficiently uni- 
versal to obviate the present requirement. “ 

While little has changed since 1994, “World Radiocommun- 
ication Conference agendas are very crowded. ...It is unrealistic 
to expect that Article S25, having been placed on the agenda 
for WRC-99, will again be reviewed at another conference in 
the foreseeable future. Any changes to Article S25 that may be 
desirable in the next decade or two, must be considered now. 
On that basis, the Committee has concluded that S25.5 should 
be removed as a treaty obligation of administrations.” 


7) International recognition of amateur licenses: 

Many countries accept a home country driving license to 
allow visitors to drive in their country. Should an amateur be 
able to visit another country and during that visit be able to use 
his home country license? The FASC has examined the CEPT 
arrangements for Europe, and the CITEL arrangements for the 
Americas and suggest that Article S25 could include provisions 
encouraging such use. 

Should the Article include a provision facilitating the inter- 
national recognition of amateur licences of visiting amateurs? If 
so, would the prospects of the acceptance of such a provision 
be enhanced if the Article set a standard for the technical and 
operational qualifications of amateurs? 

FASC Recommendation: The IARU has identified as an 
objective the global recognition of amateur licences to permit 
operation by an amateur in the course of a visit to another 
country 

The CEPT approach recognizes equivalent qualifications 


WSYI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


from other administrations and CITEL has an International 
Amateur Radio Permit (IARP) similar in concept and nature to 
the International Driving Permit. 

“We consider that there is a need for the Radio Regulations 
to provide a basis for the global recognition of amateur licenses 
issued by all administrations to permit amateurs to operate 
while visiting.” 


8) The amateur satellite service: 

The FASC has examined the definition of the amateur 
satellite service, and have a concern that the service is restrict- 
ed to space stations on "earth satellites". We do not know 
whether that restriction could present a problem in the future. 
We have also looked at the measures to ensure that amateur 
satellites do not cause harmful interference. 

Should the amateur service seek a change to the definition 
of “amateur satellite service"? Or, does the definition not mat- 
ter? Should any other change to the provisions governing the 
amateur satellite service be sought? 

FASC Recommendation: We suggest that the following 

change to the definition could be considered: 

- $1.57 Amateur-Satellite Service: A radiocommunication 
service using space stations on earth satellites for the 
same purposes as those of the amateur service. 

Some may question is why is there a separate satellite service, 

rather than a single amateur service. The separate definition of 

the service may have the advantage that it puts beyond doubt 
the right of the amateur service to use space stations. 


9) What amateur stations may transmit: 

Current rules provide that amateur transmissions “shall be 
made in plain language and shall be limited to messages of a 
technical nature relating to tests and to remarks of a personal 
character for which, by reason of their unimportance, recourse 
to the public telecommunications service is not justified.” 

FASC Recommendation: The FASC believes that these pro- 
visions were first adopted over a concern for security and to 
protect government monopoly of communications. With the 
notable exception of the United States, most common carrier 
communications are government owned and controlled. 

“We wonder, if that identification of policy objectives is cor- 
rect, whether either objective is as important today. In particu- 
lar, the traditional government monopoly of communications 
has shifted, and will no doubt continue to shift, to a deregulated 
and competitive market, in an increasing number of countries. “ 


10) Other matters: 

Are there other matters that are not included in Article S25 
and should be addressed in the Article, or other changes to 
Article S25 that should be sought? 


Send in your comments 


The FASC wants “...the reasoned views of as many indi- 
viduals and organizations as possible, whether in favor or not, 
in respect of the suggestions we make and in respect of mat- 
ters that we have not raised." Please communicate to the Com- 
mittee as follows: 


Mail: IARU FASC 
c/o IARU International Secretariat 


Page #8 
June 1, 1996 


P.O. Box 310905 
Newington, CT 06131-0905 USA 


+1 860 594-0259 
IARU FASC, c/o IARU International Secretariat 


iaru@iaru,org 
Subject: "To IARU FASC" 


FAX: 


E-mail: 


Things to consider when making comments: 


Remember that the FASC is dealing with international 
regulation, that is regulation that exists by treaty between 
sovereign states. What is appropriate for national regulation 
may not be appropriate for treaty. The Radio Regulations, 
having the status of a treaty, must deal with principle, and 
provide the basic foundation for national regulation. 

“We must be careful that whatever we propose cannot be 
seen by any member country of the ITU as an attempt to dimin- 
ish sovereignty. The importance of sovereignty cannot be over- 
stated,” the FASC said. 

The Radio Regulations should be simple. “We should 
avoid judging what amateur radio ‘ought to be’ by applying our 
own standards without having regard to the fact that there are 
differences throughout the world and we should have particular 
regard to the needs of the developing countries where the per 
capita amateur population is at present low. If we seek change 
we should, we think, look for improvement to make the amateur 
service more valuable and meaningful to those countries that 
presently encourage it, and more attractive to those that do not. 

“We suggest that all involved in this process should 
attempt to take a global approach to the issues, trying to under- 
stand and accept differences, with a view to seeking change, if 
change is desirable, that will enhance amateur radio for the 
future and throughout the world. 

“Unlike spectrum allocation issues, we are not in competi- 
tion with other services. If we present a single world wide posi- 
tion, and we have sound and logical reasons for that position 
and that position is sensitive to the differing needs of the differ- 
ent countries, we have every prospect of that position being 
accepted.” 


A Possible Time Table 


The FASC will develop the world wide position through an 
evolutionary process. “We do not believe that the I|ARU can 
develop policies to meet the needs of different administrations 
and the needs of amateurs throughout the world without a per- 
iod of consultation.” 

This Discussion Paper was distributed on April 12, 1996 
and the FASC would like comments and submissions by the 
end of June 1996. The Committee will prepare a Report by the 
end of July 1996 with recommendations to be considered by 
the Region 1 Conference in October 1996. A further Report will 
be prepared for the Region 3 Conference in 1997, and then re- 
peat the process for the Region 2 Conference in 1998. 

“We believe that it is essential that a final position and sup- 
porting material be adopted well before WRC-99, and the latest 
that can occur is immediately following the 1998 Region 2 Con- 
ference, so that the member societies and the regions are able 
to present the IARU position to their national telecommunica- 
tions administrations. 


W5SYI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


AMATEUR RADIO STATION CALL SIGNS 
... sequentially issued as of the first of May 1996: 
Radio Gp."A" Gp."B" Gp."C" Gp."D" 
District Extra Advan. Tech/Gen Novice 
0 (*) ABOBS KIGCS  (****) KBOWHV 
KG) AA1PY KE1EO N1XFI KB1BXY 
(*) AB2AW KG2GV (****) KB2YSX 
(Cy AA30F KE3WL N3XHP- KB3BQP 
ay AE4TZ KT4PM_ (****) KF4JEE 
(ed) ACSHR KK5ZR_ (****) KC5UHB 
(*) 
(*) 
) 
(*) 


* 
* 


* 


i AC6UL KQ6FX (****) KF6DMG 
AB7QN_ KJ7XJ (Ss) KD7AAC 
AA8WV KG8WW (****) KC8DNZ 
AASSA KG9GG (****) KBONNQ 
KHOY AHOGAW KH@EZ WHOABF 
WH2T AH2DB KH2QF WH2ANP 
AH3D AH3AD KH3AG WH3AAG 
AH4AA KH4AG WH4AAH 
Hawaii () AH6O0O_ (****) WH6DAW 
Kure Is. KH7AA 
Amer.Samoa AH8O KH8CT 
Wake W.Peale AH9C KH9AE 
Alaska (**) (**) 
Virgin Is. WP2X KP2CJ NP2JF WP2AID 
Puerto Rico (**) (Ce) (255) WP4NLY 
*= All 1-by-2 & 2-by-1 call signs have been assigned. 
**= All 2-by-1 call signs have been assigned 
*** = All KP4-by-2 call signs assigned in Puerto Rico. 
****= Group "C" (N-by-3) call signs have now run out in 


all but the 1st and 3rd call district. 
[Source: FCC, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania] 


AMATEUR JAMMER LOSES HAM TICKET FOR LIFE! 


In what signals much tougher FCC enforcement 
handling of intentional interference complaints, the Wire- 
less Telecommunications Bureau has reached a settle- 
ment with Irvin J. Foret, of Metairie, LA , KB5UJD. 

Under the terms of the settlement agreement, 
Foret will pay $500 within 30 days to the U.S. treasury, 
submit his Technician Plus operator license for cancella- 
tion and refrain for the remainder of his life from applying 
for any FCC license. He is further precluded from partici- 
pating in any amateur or CB radio communications, even 
as a third party. Foret also waived all future rights to seek 
reconsideration, review, appeal or to otherwise challenge 
or contest the settlement. In exchange, the FCC has 
agreed to end its investigation and prosecution of Foret. 

Foret's amateur operator license was suspended 
on April 5th after being monitored by FCC engineers in 
December and January initiating transmissions which the 
FCC said “...constituted willful or malicious interference to 
the communications of other amateur radio stations.” 

Some of Foret's transmissions were termed “ob- 
scene or indecent” and included music which is prohibited 
by the rules. (Action by FCC, May 2, 1996) 


(* 
9(* 
N. Mariana 
Guam 
Johnston Is. 
Midway Is. 


AH8AH 
AHSAD 
AL7QI 


WH8ABF 
WHQAAI 
WL7CSZ 


Page #9 


June 1, 1996 


EXTENDED COVERAGE HF HAM TRANSCEIVERS 


On May 13, the FCC issued a Public Notice stating that 
it is concerned about the number of transceivers that are being 
imported as “supposedly” Amateur Radio Service (ARS) trans- 
ceivers. These transceivers have extended frequency cover- 
age making them capable of being operated in nearby bands 
allocated to other radio services such as the Private Land 
Mobile, Maritime, Auxiliary Broadcast, International Broadcast- 
ing, Citizens Band and U.S. Government radio services. 

“Some of these transceivers are capable of using output 
powers or emission types which are not permitted for these 
radio services and some are capable of transmitting in the radio 
astronomy band where no two-way radiocommunications is 
permitted. Some manufacturers are promoting the sale of con- 
version kits, or have designed their transceivers such that they 
can easily be modified by the users, to extend the operating fre- 
quency range. |n addition, so-called ‘export’ radios which are 
deliberately designed to facilitate this capability are also being 
imported and marketed,” the Public Notice reads. 

“Manufacturers, importers, vendors and users of these 
transceivers are reminded that transmitters intended for opera- 
tion on frequencies allocated to any of the FCC authorized 
radio services listed above, except the ARS, must be type 
accepted by the Commission for the particular radio service(s) 
in which they are intended to operate prior to their importation, 
marketing or use.” 

The FCC also considers transceivers “as intended for 
use on other than ARS bands" when frequency conversions are 
facilitated by a very simple modification. It is a violation of 
Commission regulations to import, market or operate a trans- 
mitter designed or intended to operate on frequencies outside 
the ARS bands if it has not been issued an FCC equipment 
authorization. 

“Violations of the Commission's regulations will subject 
manufacturers, importers, vendors and users of this equipment 
to appropriate criminal penalties ...including fines and/or im- 
prisonment. In addition, the equipment can be seized by, and 
forfeited to, the government.” 

We saw Gary Hendrickson, W3DTN, at last weekend's 
Dayton HamVention. Gary is an engineer at the FCC Labora- 
tory in Columbia, Maryland. | asked him what about the ex- 
tended coverage capability afforded by many of the well known 
ham transceivers (such as those made by Yaesu, Icom, and 
Kenwood.) Gary said that these firms were not the ones that 
the FCC was going after. 

Hendrickson said the government is primarily concerned 
with non-amateur radio equipment manufacturers - especially 
those making “10-meter” transceivers - who use the ARS equip- 
ment authorization exemption loop-hole as a method of illegally 
distributing equipment intended for other than amateur opera- 
tion. Hendrickson can be reached at: 301/725-1585. 


ARRL SOUNDS OFF ABOUT TAPR STA 


The American Radio Relay League has filed comments 
with the FCC on the request of Tucson Amateur Packet Radio 
Corp. (TAPR) for Special Temporary Authority (STA) to experi- 
ment with spread spectrum emissions (see 5/15 W5Y1 Report). 

TAPR and ARRL agree that there needs to be more, 
rather than less, spread spectrum experimentation in Amateur 


WS5YI REPORT 


Nation's Oldest Ham Radio Newsletter 


Radio, The two organizations differ on which bands should be 
available to the experimenters. 

ARRL endorsed the use of 219-220 MHz for the experi- 
ments, especially given the severe geographic restrictions on 
amateur use of that band. The restrictions are intended to pro- 
tect maritime operations. Spread spectrum, ARRL said, would 
reduce the potential for interference and might allow amateurs 
to operate in closer proximity to maritime licensees than would 
otherwise be possible. 

ARRL said that "the League has serious concerns with 
regard to the proposed use of other frequencies in the 6m, 2m 
and 1.25m bands." ARRL said it was "persuaded that spread 
spectrum emissions pose a significant interference potential to 
existing amateur operations in these bands” and noted that 
unlike 219-220 MHz, there is no geographic separation require- 
ment that might protect narrowband users from interference. 
The FCC has not yet acted on the TAPR request. 


FCC CREATES FAMILY RADIO SERVICE 
Unlicensed Radios May Be Under Christmas Tree 


The FCC has established the first new Citizens Band Radio 
Service since the 27 MHz CB was created. The Family Radio 
Service (FRS) is a category within CB. FRS will operate on 
channels overlapping the 462 and 467 MHz allocations of the 
General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS), CB's predecessor. 

The FRS culminates more than 20 years of attempts by 
FCC and industry to establish a new unlicensed personal radio 
service: the Class E CB and Personal Emergency Locator 
Transmitter Service (PELTS) at 220 MHz, the Personal Radio 
Communications Service (PRCS) at 800 MHz and the Consum- 
er Radio Service (CRS) at 460 MHz. The FCC even consider- 
ed placing a new CB type service in the 902-928 MHz band, 
and a personal digital service in the six-meter band 

General Electric spent millions on PRCS in the 1980s, but 
pulled out of the business just before the FCC ruled on PRCS 
spectrum. (Some PRCS radios -- known as "CarFone" -- are 
believed to still be on the air illegally. They are like a private 
cellular phone system.) 

PRCS and the other ideas never received official spectrum 
allocation. But after Tandy Corporation's Radio Shack division 
petitioned the FCC in 1994 to create a short-distance Family 
Radio Service on frequencies it believed were underutilized, the 
FCC moved promptly to authorize it. 

The FCC likes to see equipment manufacturers eager to 
make radios for a proposed service. Besides Radio Shack, 
other industry biggies weighed in such as Cobra, Uniden and 
Motorola (probably the single most influential corporation at the 
FCC). They told the Commission they want to release products 
into the FRS band as soon as possible 

GMRS licensees had been arguing in favor of a new per- 
sonal radio service for the public since the 1970s. The one 
thing they had been unable to deliver, however, was manufac- 
turers willing to make products. 

They were not thrilled by Radio Shack's insistence that 
FRS be placed in the GMRS band, including the 467 MHz 
channels the FCC had, only a few years before, withheld from 
allocation due to Commission concern about interference to 
GMRS repeaters. 

There are about 4.000 GMRS repeaters nationwide, most 
of them operated by not-for-profit organizations, communica- 


Page #10 


June 1, 1996 


tions teams and individuals. Often a group of families will pool 
resources and put up a GMRS repeater for their use. Some 
repeaters are used by businesses, holdovers from past years 
when commercial entities could obtain GMRS licenses. Friction 
between commercial and personal users used to dominate 
GMRS; it continues to be a problem in some geographic areas. 

GMRS licensees feared that, far from being used by hunt- 
ers and campers as the FCC portrayed it, FRS would turn out 
to be mostly used by businesses who historically have cared 
little for sharing radio channels. They believed that FRS would 
interfere with their repeaters and bring unlicensed CB-style 
chaos to the band. 

Some 58 of the 73 comments in the FRS proceeding ob- 
jected to FRS, at least as it was proposed by the FCC. The 
Commission dismissed these concerns. "The comments over- 
whelmingly support establishing the FRS," the FCC said on 
May 15. "The FRS is a low power (ERP is 0.500 W - F3E) FM 
service such that the range of any particular transmitter is small 
as compared to the more wide area nature of GMRS." 

The Commission declined to use technical standards to in- 
hibit the connection of external packet data and repeater con- 
trollers. The FRS operator rules prohibit such violations, but 
manufacturers need not inform purchasers of FRS rules. There 
is little realistic possibility of enforcement anyway, with the FCC 
pulling back from local monitoring and enforcement. 

FRS antennas must be permanently fixed to the FRS radio. 
There will be no external RF connector. This should frustrate 
those who would attach amplifiers or external antennas. Radio 
Shack has stated that it expects to have one or two models of 
FRS radio available for Christmas or the first quarter of 1997. 


Essentials of the Four FRS Rules: 


@ FRS Rule 1 - Eligibility and responsibility. Anyone of 
any age may use FRS unless they represent a foreign govern- 
ment. No license will be issued. The operator is responsible 
for all communications; must share each channel with other us- 
ers; and may not claim any channel for private or exclusive use. 
@ FRS Rule 2 - Authorized locations. |f the operator com- 
plies with FRS rules, he/she may operate FRS anywhere in the 
FCC's jurisdiction 
@ FRS Rule 3 - Types of communications. FRS may trans- 
mit two-way voice communications and one-way messages to 
establish communications, send an emergency message, pro- 
vide traveler assistance, make a voice page, or conduct a brief 
test. (Communication with GMRS users is apparently allowed.) 
@ FRS Rule 4-FRS units. Only FCC-certified FRS radios 
may be used. No internal modification is allowed. Nothing may 
be attached to the FRS unit that was not FCC certified as part 
of that unit. Internal modification or external, non-certified 
attachments to the FRS radio cancel the FCC certification of 
the radio and void everyone's authority to operate it. 

More information and the full text of the FRS Rules are 
available on the FRS Web Page operated by Bennett Kobb, 
KCS5CW, at http://home.navisoft.com/nspi/frs.html. 


Family Radio Service - Channel No. (MHz) 


1, 462.5625 2. 462.5875 3. 462.6125 
4. 462.6375 5. 462.6625 6. 462.6875 
7. 462.7125 8. 467.5625 9. 467.5875 
10. 467.6125 11. 467.6375 12. 467.6625 
13. 467.6875 14. 467.7125 


