NEWSLETTER 


December  1998 


CHAIRMAN’S  CHRISTMAS  MESSAGE 


T this  is  a  much  more  optimistic  message  than  a 
year  ago  -  the  Club  will  trade  profitably  in 
1998  and  I’ll  have  some  good  financial  news 
to  report  to  you  all  in  the  New  Year. 


Other  positive  steps  that  your  Committee  have 
achieved  since  the  AGM  include  the  successful 
introduction  of  the  catering  contract,  improvement 
in  food  quality,  provision  of  a  breakfast  service, 
better  maintenance  programs  and  cleaning  services 
in  the  Athletics  Department  and  an  improved 
administration  support  service  for  all  Members. 

Shortly,  a  new  AD  Manager  will  be  joining  the  Club 
with  a  brief  to  raise  its  profile  and  the  range  of 
services  offered.  We  are  also  obtaining  design  input 
for  the  planned  Brasserie  and  Lounge  on  Level  TWo. 

.) 


Together  with  the  guaranteed  profit  from  very 
prestigious  and  lucrative  bid  for  the  Sydney  2000 
Olympics,  financial  changes  already  made  wiQ  put 
the  Club  into  a  secure  financial  position  for  1999. 
Next  year  will  also  see  a  significant  increase  in  the 
range  and  quality  of  functions  offered  to  Members. 

If  you  have  any  good  ideas,  please  share  them  with 
your  Committee  or  the  Secretary.  I  wish  you  all  a 
very  Merry  Christmas  and  look  forward  to 
reinforcing  our  comradeship  in  the  Club 
throughout  1999. 

Denis  Cleary 
Chairman 


NEW  YEAR’S  RACE  DAY 

Each  Member  should  be  receiving  their  two 
complimentary  entry  tickets  and  Members  passes  to 
the  New  Year’s  Race  Day  on  January  1,  1999  with 
their  November  accounts. 

As  mentioned  in  the  previous  Newsletter,  Tattersall’s 
will  be  once  again  holding  its  annual  New  Years  Day 
Luncheon  in  the  Vice  Regal  Room.  This  well- 
appointed  room,  with  its  own  private  viewing 
balcony  is  always  popular,  and  at  the  time  of  press, 
only  a  handful  of  tickets  remain. 


If  you  call  quickly,  these  seate  might  still  be  available. 
Tickets  are  great  value  at  just  $70.00  per  person, 
which  will  include  your  meal,  beer,  wines,  soft  drinks 
and,  entry  to  the  Racecourse  and  Members’  areas. 

To  make  your  booking,  please  call  the  Club  on 
92646111. 


