











irst Things First is the title of the 
best selling business and personal 
management book by Stephen 
Covey and Roger and Rebecca Merrill. 
In the book, they describe how to orga- 
nize, manage and lead a business or 
better manage one's own life by putting 
first things first. 





Mission or Purpose 

First they describe the importance 
of creating a mission or purpose state- 
ment. In other words, define and 
explain what the organization is all 
about. The mission of the Police 
Protective League explains what we 

are about and what is really important. 
Our mission explains why the League 
exists: to negotiate a good contract, in 
other words, to obtain the best eco- 
nomic package possible and to protect 
your legal rights. Both of those areas 
have been identified as the important 
reasons for the League to exist. 

A mission statement should be 
applicable to all of the stakeholders. A 
stakeholder is someone who has a 
stake or an interest or an involvement 
in an organization. AS a member of 
the League, you are a stakeholder. 
Covey says that a mission statement 
should also address what he calls the 
four basic needs of the human experl- 
ence: 1. spiritual needs; 2. physical 
needs: 3. social needs; and, 4. mental 
needs. A mission statement should 
also inspire all of the stakeholders to a 
commitment to fulfill their concerns 
and needs. One of the things I hope to 
coordinate is the modification and 
improvement of our mission — in order 
to meet those criteria and needs. 


Set & Prioritize Goals 
That desire notwithstanding, in 

order to fulfill our current mission, 
we need to set goals. Once we have 
established the goals we need to pri- 
oritize them by focusing on First 
Things First. The most important 
goals we have right now are, the 
ones that are First are: 

* Get a Great Contract 

* Bring Back CWS 

- Improve Legal Representation 

* Settle FLSA 

* Binding Arbitration Signed into 

Law 
We are focusing on what's most 

important. That has to be accom- 
plished by constant reviews. Studies 
have shown that a weekly review 
appears to be the optimal time for 
reassessment of the progress of each 
goal 


mail postal permit whe: 





ces 


‘. ‘ ieee Sey gant = * site ye = 21 sf ‘ 
Ms, Los/AngelesPolice 
‘7m Protective League 


Pai Saris wee ~ S 


Space anh eet F 


nee ee ee 


4 _ 


———— em 


1308 West 8th Street 
Los Angeles, Calif. 90017 


ME S2Sn A’ GE 





First Things First 


Work the Plan 

Finally, it takes discipline to stick 
to the plan and to do things that you 
may not necessarily want to do but you 
have to do. Let’s look at the status of 
some of our projects. 


Status of the Blue Line 
The purpose of the 7hin Blue Line 
is to serve as the primary communica- 
tion instrument for our League. It 
helps both active and retired personnel 
to stay in contact with what is going on 
in the Department. 
The U.S. Postal Service has noti- 
fied us that they will revoke our bulk 
e reach the 


point where half of the copies of the 


Thin Blue Line we mail each month 
are sent to non-paid subscribers, 1.c., 
retired personnel. Retired LAPD 
personnel do not pay dues to the 
League and according to the Postal 
Service are not paid subscribers. 
Therefore, retired personnel are not 
entitled to receive the Blue Line at 
the reduced bulk mail rate. In fact, if 
we don't resolve the problem right 
away, the Postal Service will revoke 
our bulk mail permit for all recipients 
of the Blue Line. To solve the prob- 
lem we are planning to start an asso- 
ciation especially for retired person- 
nel so they can continue to receive 
the Thin Blue Line if they want to. 

The second thing that we did was 
to renew the contract with our current 
publisher who has been publishing 
the Blue Line for 17 years. We have 
the best police association newspaper 
around and it runs like clockwork. 
We can't remember the last complaint 
about the Blue Line that could be 
tracked to the publisher. In consider- 
ing the contract renewal, we remem- 
bered the old adage, "If it ain't broke, 
don't fix it." The Thin Blue Line 1s a 
very good product at a price that is 
comparable to other professional 
journals and magazines. 

The third thing we did was to 
sign a contract to completely revise 
and revamp our Website at no cost to 
the League. The Website contract 1s 
tied to the Thin Blue Line contract 
which we believe is a particularly 
smart business decision. By linking 
the two contracts, we'll receive, at no 
cost to the League, all of the hard- 
ware, software and labor cost to build 
and maintain the new Website. In 
addition, the business plan for the 
new Website projects a significant 
amount of income to the League 
based on advertising and shopping 


o> i oe” ee 


cart sales. It will take some time to 
build it up, but we think it will be one 
of the best sites on the net. Check the 
progress at LAPD.COM. 


Contract Survey 

An opinion survey was developed 
with input from all of the delegates 
who attended the recent Delegate's 
Conference. The reason we develop 
and mail out the survey is to ensure 
that every member of the League has 
the opportunity to have their own input 
into the next contract. Please take the 
time to fill out your ideas. 


National League of Cities 
The National League of Cities will 
hold its winter conference in Los 
Angeles, December 2 & 3. Thousands 
of mayors, city council members, city 
administrators and managers from all 
across the United States will come to 
our City for the event. As a part of our 
public relations program we have a 
League booth in one of the highest 
foot traffic areas of the exhibition hall. 
The plan and design we have for our 
booth will make it one of the best, if 
not the best exhibit at the convention. 
We should really get our message 
across. If you or your spouse or any 
family or friend want to help staff the 
booth, please call and we'll arrange 
credentials, parking and meals. Call 
Ted Hunt or Dennis Zine at 213-251- 
4554 and tell us you want to work at 
the League's welcoming booth at the 
National League of Cities convention. 


LAPPL Foundation 

We have nearly completed all of 
the work necessary to launch the 
League's non-profit foundation. We'll 


ne Da 


vt 


' 
t _ 
= kk 
= A og 
s 
2 + | 
i 


7% 4 PULTE PILTinn 
s- 


tela 





use the foundation to enhance our rela- 
tionships with our members and with 
the various communities throughout 
Los Angeles. We'll enhance our image 
and do it at little or no cost to the 
League. 


LA: World Port 

Los Angeles is one of the trans- 
portation hubs of the Pacific Rim 
which makes us a "global city" and an 
economic powerhouse. The Port of Los 
Angeles and LAX serve huge markets 
around the but particularly 
countries in Asia. As people and prod- 


world 


ucts move through our ports of entry, 
there are increasing police problems 
that trace back to other countmie 

Just as we have established 
excellent relationships with police 
agencies and associations 
throughout California and our 
nation, so we have been invited to 
establish relationships on _ the 
Pacific Rim by participating in 
international symposia, one in 
Thailand (expenses paid) and 
another in New Zealand (partial 
expenses paid). It is important to 
cultivate relationships but at this 
time we have postponed going to 
these seminars because we are 
putting First Things First. 

Since we are revising many of the 
most basic elements of the League 
such as the Thin Blue Line, the Web 
site, establishing a retiree association 
and a non-profit foundation, we decid- 
ed to stay close to home and focus on 
the basics. The Things that we are 
working on are major and significant 
projects which will bring improve- 
ments to our League and help us fulfill 
our goals. SS. 


ax Center Spread for this Mont 


Sey 












ements de 


















ave time and postage by paying your bills electronically through LAPFCU’s 
PATROL Bill Pay. With just a few quick clicks of your mouse, your bills are paid 
directly from your checking account. PATROL Bill Pay is accessed through 
PATROL, LAPFCU’s internet branch. It’s convenient, safe, fast and, best of all, 
it’s FREE to members of LAPFCU. If you already use PATROL, just use your 
regular password to access this new feature. If you’re not using PATROL, give 
us a Call and we'll get you started. Sign up for PATROL Bill Pay today. 
Having your bills paid is just a click away. 





LOS ANGELES 
POLIGE 


FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 















(800) 872-2843 





Page 2/ The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





Je) ey NING m@) > 


THE FUTURE 


“=, GARY MORGAN, VICE PRESIDENT 





And Survey Is Out 
N The Membership 
ING€eds To Respond! 


The MOU” contract survey has been 
Balled out and the Protective Le 
Board need ; otective League 
Bid) Voic. A veryone to take the time 
: is/her opinion. Th 
will resolve ¢ oa rae a 
The fire maine very important issues. 
Be bers, ve determine what the 
fey see rea ly wants and what are 
‘ond a ng In our contract. The sec- 
a © send a vitally important message 
4 the City that we care about our future 
fand we are united in our cause. 
fe The contract negotiating team will be 
evaluating the data retumed by the mem- 
Qership and establishing a priority list of 
those items to be considered during the 
bargaining sessions. Yes, the member- 
‘ship does have a voice and both the Board 
fof Directors and the negotiating team will 
ibe responding to your direction. I am sure 
sthe membership will be satisfied with the 
fend results. This was actually a first for 
the Board and the League in regards to a 
sdetailed evaluation. In years past the 
‘Eeague attempted to establish an evalu- 
sation process and the results were very 
broad based and members returned an 
‘open “Wish Sheet.” The negotiating 
team believes the new approach will fur- 
‘ther define our objectives and assist the 
€ntire process. I am totally convinced, 
scome January 2000, the Board and your 
— “negotiating team will prepared to deliver 


Imagine life wit 
swimming...eve 





see TH 


In your line of work, your vis 
Dr. Manger is a leader in the 
| of the best success rates 


e BEVERLY BEASLEY-FRAISER, 


“| heard about laser vision corre 

Many of my co-workers highly he pane D 
S 7 

cedure was absolutely painless an 


; wonderful results. | realize 
happier. The pro 
unbelievable. | 


NOW 






Ophthalmology Medica! Group 
© 1997 Saddleback Eye Center 


z 


= 





hout relying on glasses or co 
ryday life in the L.A.P.D. 


The doctor you choos 


ion is critical. The fi 
field of laser vision co 
in the nation. 


went from 20 





LL 1 (800) 98-SIGH 


Watch an actual pr 
L.A.P.D. co-workers! 
answered. Com F 
COVER 
FOR L.A. 


you an acceptable contract. If these ex- 
pectations are not met, the membership 
must be willing to stand up and fight for 
what we deserve and are in fact entitled 
to receive. 


The Patrol Incentive 
Lawsuit, Gary Morgan 

vs City of Los Angeles, 

for Pension-Base 
Benefits, is Preparing for 
Depositions and Trial 


The City has taken the position that 
every officer who comes on the Los An- 
geles Police Department is expected to 
work patrol and the function does not 
require additional compensation into 
your retirement. I strongly disagree and 
our attommey believes we will prevail at 
trial if the City elects to maintain this 
position. The fact that officers lose their 
patrol incentive after two deployment pe- 
nods clearly demonstrates the compensa- 
tion is paid and based on either 
assignment or special pay. The Protective 
League just recently lost an arbitration 
ruling where the arbitrator ruled you 
must in fact be working the assignment 
to receive the compensation. Based on 
this ruling and the Department position 
during the hearing, it will be interesting 
to see how they change their position. I 
believe the language in both the Article 
18 and 35 Pension systems clearly show 
it must be calculated into your retirement 








NN * 


advanced laser visi 


LASIK is an 
tients are 
cane. Dr. Manger has perf 


never thought possi 


d 





nest surgical ski 
rrection and 


Let Dr. Manger's experien 


Police Officer 
ction but I was $s 


time to get it done—and | couldn 


/400 to 20/20 





ocedure. Spea 


Find out which p 


plimentary Consultations can be sc 





ntact lenses. The freedom of waking up and ‘seeing the clock, skii 
without the hassle and limitations of glasses and contacts. 


— 


on correction procedure offering 

rk the next day! An 
eet kad ormed LASIK on 
ble. See the difference 


lis will give you 
has develope 


keptical...until recently. 


r. Manger and they all had 
't be 


d recovery time is 
in less than one day!” 


T TODAY FOR FREE CONSULTATIONS 


k with some of our patients, 
rocedure is right for you and get all your questions 
heduled Monday through Friday. 


BY BLUE CROSS PRUDENT BUYER 


P.D. AND FAMILY MEMBERS 


base and awarded as a pension benefit. 
The courts will clearly be the ones who 
decide and determine who is correct on 
this issue. 


The Department Wants 

to Utilize Detectives and 
Modifying Work Schedules 
to Avoid Paying Overtime 
During the Y2K Deployment 


According to some recent documents I 
received, the Department appears to want 
to modify the “MUD” agreement (Maxi- 
mum Uniform Deployment) and adjust 
work schedules to avoid paying over- 
time. I have been tasked the responsibil- 
ity to negotiate this process and I have 
informed the Department we have an 
“MOU” that does not give them the right 
to change our working hours unless we 
are on a tactical alert or mobilization. 
Additionally, the “MUD” agreement 
clearly establishes how detectives may 
be deployed in uniform and under what 
conditions and restrictions. The Depart- 
ment’s position was that the “MUD” 
agreement was no longer applicable. | 
know you will find this hard to believe, 
but once again I strongly disagree. The 
Protective League Board is and will con- 
tinue to protect your rights and benefits 
when it comes to appropriate compensa- 
tion or modification of working condi- 
tions. I will keep you fully informed of 
the final resolution. 


What Does the 
Department Want to do 
During the Democratic 
National Convention 
about Vacation and Days 
Off, and How Would their 
Plan Impact your Vacation 
and Work Schedule? 


Guess what the Department doesn’t 
want to pay overtime once again. The 





ng: 














d, more importantly, 






ifference. 


the best result...so choose the best. 
d LASIK techniques resulting in some 
ce, dedication and knowledge work for you. 





e CHIC DANIEL, Detective 


“1 am now glasses-free and i 
will continue to recomme 
everyone | know 







including many of your 









a — 


hundreds of L.A.P.D. and their families, inj 
LASIK may make at California's leading laser visi 


Department is attempting to try the 
same type of deployment as the Y2K 
guidelines. The department does not 
want to declare a tactical alert or a mo- 
bilization. The department says no 
overtime is available and vacations and 
days off will be canceled. The Protec- 
tive League Board disagrees and is cur- 
rently attempting to negotiate a 
resolution to this problem. The depart- 
ment does not want anyone off on va- 
cation (unless certain conditions are 
met) and maximum deployment for a 
period two weeks prior and a week after 
the convention ends. The Board is un- 
derstanding of the potential problems 
and is willing to make some modifica- 
tions to prepare for this important 
event. The Board believes any reduc- 
tion in vacation deployment must be 
equally divided during deployment pe- 
riod six, seven and nine accordingly. 
The Board further believes no modifi- 
cation of work schedules should be 
made without proper compensation. | 
am putting out this information so offi- 
cers throughout the department can un- 
derstand what we are doing to address 
these difficult problems. The depart- 
ment in the past has been willing to 
compensate employees when special 
events require difficult security needs. 
The new “LAPD” command staff ap- 
pears to believe we will dance to the 
same song as they’re currently being 
forced to do. The problem Is we are not 
salary employees and we do have a 
contract. Our contract protects Our 
rights and working conditions and we 
are willing to stand up and fight for the 
continued support of those issues. I’ ve 
said many times in prior articles please 
don’t modify your work schedule to be 
part of a ‘favored team’, in the end we 





continued on page 11 


is - i RIC sw ae “eh 7 
; ee ed ee 
. fr Rr al . 
& — : 
e bk i 
F 


! > 
> 
‘es : 


fd 
’ 


a ls Gl Ont 7-4 » A DB. 


SDKHORCYV 


HOCZRKDSVN 


NZCOSKDVRN 
HCSKOVRNHZ 



















— DiIgFeRENCE VV in el os 


almost immediate recovery.. 
in the hands of Dr. Manger, 


allowing 


t was painless. | have beer 
nd Saddleback Eye { ant: 
who wears glasses, 


Sess 


L.A.P.D. Officers can receive 


complimentary stay at a 
hotel the evening of 
their procedure 


f i Coy “e 
fos 
aS 









Charles C. Manger Ill, A.D. 


Certified by the American Board of Eye Surgery 


33161 Moulton Pkwy. ¢ Laguna Hills, CA 92653 


(800) 98-SIGHT * (800) 987-4448 ° (949) 951-4641 


http://www.saddlebackeye.com 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 3 








TIM SANDS, TREASU 





1999 Delegates Conference 


The 1999 Delegates Conference was 
held on August 26, 27, and 28 in San 
Diego. The attendance was outstand- 
ing. After reviewing the critiques it ap- 
pears that the Delegates were quite 
interested and informed during the pro- 
gram. A variety of subjects were pre- 
sented and discussed. City Attorney 
Jim Hahn spoke on the many issues 
facing the membership today. 

Also, Sergeant Sandy Jo MacArthur 
spoke on the functions of the LAPD 


i Wass 


RER 3 


The new LDF insurance plan 
(P.O.L.I.C.E) was explained and pre- 
sented to the delegates. The delegates 
had many good questions which were 
answered by representatives of 
P.O.L.I.C.E. and our General Counsel 
Hank Hernandez. The P.O.L.I.C.E. 
plan provides an attorney to all LAPPL 
members who opt to join, for all admin- 
istrative investigations, from inter- 
views to Board of Rights. Mailers and 
enrollment forms are expected to be 
sent out in October. 





BES 
Se Se 


photo by Dennis P. Zine 


1998 Delegates honored: Keith Jackson (BAD), Delegate of the Year; Adolph Rodriguez (Harbor), 
Outstanding Delegate of the Year; Don Lint (ORS), Defense Representative of the Year; Joe Oliveri 


(Northeast), Outstanding Delegate of the Year. 


Ombudsman’s office. Representatives 
from the Police Memorial Foundation 
and Employee Assistance Unit gave in- 
formative presentations. The M.O.U. 
survey was articulated as was certain 
revisions of the delegate system. One of 
the most informative presentations was 
from Dr. Harvey Eisenberg, repre- 
senting the HealthView Medical Pro- 
gram. 

The HealthView Medical Program is 
the medical examination being offered 
by Blue Cross Prudent Buyer, where an 
officer essentially gets a CAT Scan of 
his or her vital organs. The scan is then 
displayed on a monitor and a doctor 
explains what you are seeing. The scan 
will show blockages in the heart, can- 
cers, ulcers, etc. It is state of the art and 
the presentation by Dr. Eisenberg was 
excellent. For an appointment and more 
information, call HealthView Medical 
Center at 949-717-4500. 


Please see your divisional delegate 
for additional information that was pre- 
sented at the Delegates Conference. I 
want to personally thank the Delegate 
Conference Committee and the LAPPL 
staff for their support in making the 
1999 Delegates Conference a success. 


Delegate and Defense 
Representative of the Year 


Congratulations to Detective Keith 
Jackson of B.A.D. for being nominated 
by the Board as the 1998 Delegate of 
the Year. Also receiving honors were 
Sergeant Joe Oliveri, Northeast Divi- 
sion; and Officer Adolph Rodriguez, 
Harbor Division, for being nominated 
Outstanding Delegates of the Year for 
1998. Congratulations are also in order 
for Officer Don Lint of O.R.S., who 
was nominated as Defense Repre- 
sentative of the Year for 1998. Con- 
gratulations to all for a job well done. 

Take care. oe 


EDITORIAL POLICY 


1. Opinions expressed in this publication are not necessarily those of the Los 
Angeles Police Protective League. 
2. No responsibility is assumed for unsolicited material. 


3. Letters or articles submitted shall be limited to 350 words and must be 
accompanied by writer's name but may be reprinted without name or 


address at writer's request. 


4. Freedom of expression is recognized within the bounds of good taste and 


the limits of available space. 


5. The Board of Directors reserve the right to edit submissions and/or include 
Editor's Notes to any submitted materials. 
6. Deadline for submissions to the Thin Blue Line is the 6th of the month for 


the following month's issue date. 


Page 4/ The Thin Blue Line / October '99 


For Info and Ad Rates 
Call... 


Mark Deitch & Assoc., Inc. 
(818) 558-1010 



















THIN BLUE LINE (THE) Ss 
PUBLISHED MONTHLY 
ISSN #0279-697% USPS 440-930 
LOS ANGELES POLICE PROTECTIVE LEAGU 
1308 W. 8th Street, Los ANG A Es CA 90017 
Phone: (213) 251-4554 1-(800)-53-LAPP! 
(213) 368-7288 (213) 368-7277 League Message Lin 
LAPPL Insurance Information Phone: (213) 386-9955 or (800) 73¢ 
E-mail address: lapp|@aol.com / Website address: lapd cor 
In emergencies, during non-business hours 
Contact DHD for Directors’ home phone numbers 
ADVERTISEMENT IN THIN BLUE LINE (THE) 
DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT BY THE LEAGUE 


Thin Blue Line (The) is the official publication of the Los Angeles Police p,,., 
League and published monthly under the supervision of its Board of p,, 
However, opinions expressed by individual Board members or any other w,, % 
this publication do not necessarily reflect the opinion of the entire Board of, 


tors. $15.00 of your annual dues is for subscription to Thin Blue Line (The nec. 
Periodicals postage paid at Los Angeles, Calif. and at additional mailin, 


POSTMASTER: Send address changes to Thin Blue Line (The), 1308 W. 8th Stree 
Angeles, CA 90017, Fax: (213) 251-4566. Log 


LOS ANGELES POLICE PROTECTIVELEAGUE =~ 
EXECUTIVE BOARD 1999 


President: Ted Hunt Secretary: Dennis P. Zine 
Vice President: Gary D. Morgan Treasurer: Timothy Sands 
THIN BLUE LINE EDITORIAL STAFF 


Editor: Ted Hunt Associate Editor: Helen Mc\/a\ 
Designed & Produced by Mark Deitch & Associates, Inc. _ 





1999 COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS — 
(First name listed under each Committee indicates Chairman) 
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS EMPLOYEE RELATIONS/ P.O.5.T. LIAISON 
Timothy SANDS LABOR RELATIONS/ Ted HUNT 
Cliff RUFF LABOR LAW Gary FULLERTON 
Rick WELLS Gary FULLERTON POLICE COMMISSION 
AUDIT Timothy SANDS TCT SANDS 
Gary MORGAN FINANCE & BUDGET ennis P. 
Gary FULLERTON Timothy SANDS POLICE MEMORIAL 
Rick WELLS Gary MORGAN Timothy SANDS 
Ted HUNT GRIEVANCES POLICE RELIEF LIAISON 
Gary FULLERTON Timothy SANDS Ga 
ry MORGAN 
Timothy, SANDS Gary MORGAN Gary FULLERTON 
BYLAWS INSURANCE Timothy SANDS 
Sy SNE ATON Gary FULLERTON POLITICAL ACTION 
Gary MORGAN Gary MORGAN Ted HUNT 
ae vetile Rick WELLS Cliff RUFF 
CITY HALI JUDICIAL LIAISON BOE INE 
Dennis P. ZINE Gary FULLERTON PRESS RELATIONS 
Ted HUNT LEGAL Sty ee 
Cliff RUFF Gary FULLERTON sie 
CITY UNIONS Gary MORGAN PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Cliff RUFF Cliff RUFF Ted HUNT 
Ted HUNT LEGISLATIVE Set MORGAN 
Dennis P. ZINE Cliff RUFF Dennis P. ZINE 7 
CIVIL SERVICE Dave HEPBURN pe 
Ted HUNT ' 
Csry MORGAN nea TNE Dennis P. ZINE 
DEFENSE REPS Dennis P. ZINE SCHOLARSHIP 
Rick WELLS Ted HUNT Sa nae 
Cliff RUFF MINORITY LIAISON oes 
Timothy SANDS Gary MORGAN UNIFORMS 
DELEGATE & MEMBERSHIP Ted HUNT 
Tim SANDS Gary MORGAN 
Gary MORGAN OFFICE Rick WELLS 
Te HUNT Dave HEPBURN WORKERS’. a 
DISTRICT ATTORNEY LIAISON = PENSIONS COMPENSATION 
Rick WELLS Cliff RUFF Timothy SANDS 
Gary FULLERTON Tinethy SANDS Gary MORGAN 
ELECTIONS ic 
Gary FULLERTON 
Timothy SANDS 
Rick WELLS 
AD HOC COMMITTEES 
BAKER to VEGAS DISCIPLINARY MEMORANDUM OF 
Cliff RUFF NEGOTIATIONS UNDERSTANDING (MOU) 
ary MORGAN Timoth 
y SANDS Dave HEPBURN 
Timothy SANDS Cliff RUFF Gary MORGAN 
BOXING TOURNAMENT Rick WELLS Timothy SANDS 
Dennis P. ZINE LAPPL FOUNDATION AN 
Timothy SANDS Dennis P. ZINE NAPO (National 
CATASTROPHIC ILLNESS Ted HUNT Associationof 
Rick WELLS Gary MORGAN Police Organizations) 
Timothy SANDS LEAGUE Cliff RUFF 
CCLEA (California Coalition | FACILITY REVIEW Dave eee 
of Law Enforcement Assn.) Gary MORGAN Ted HUNT 
Cliff RUFF Timothy SANDS Rick WELES 
Dave HEPBURN LEAGUE GOLF SCALE (Southern 
Ted HUNT TOURNAMENT California Alliance of 
Gary FULLERTON a 
Dave HEPBURN Gary MORGAN Sole io 
Cliff RUFF Timothy SANDS rr 
Dennis P. ZINE LEAGUE PICNIC Ted HUNT 
STRATEGIC PLANNING 
Rick WELLS 
Timothy SANDS Dennis P. ZINE ore 
e 
Dennis PINE Health Network) SUMMER GAMES 
nnis 
: Gary MORGAN 
Rick WELLS 
Gary FULLERTON 
Ted HUNT Y at 
a eee See rene MSANOS EE Rea a et 
OFFICE PERSONNEL 
RECEPTIONIST 
Lisa Burrola Yolanda RIVERA Hank HERNANDEZ 
INSURANCE ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF GENERAL COUNSEL STAFF 
Camille NELSON Feni RICARD Sheila BAKER 
Adrianne MCCOWAN Sandra PEREZ-NEGRON Midori ROBLES 
Alondra SHIELDS eecora tT oe BOOKKEEPING 
RESEARCH ANALYST dapat Dixie MCDONALD 
Helen ROBLES McVAY Susie WATSON 





NOTICE: The LAPPL is affiliated with the following organizations on 
the national and state level. 


NAPO @) National Association of Police Organizations representing neat) 
220,000 police officer members in 4,000 police associations nationwide 


CCLEA California Coalition of Law Enforcement Associations representing 28 
California police officer associations. 


SCALE Southern California Alliance of Law Enforcement representing 19 police % 
officer associations, . 





UPPORT ‘@® 





™ Not Retiring 


Beome Ea asked if | am planning on 
“a To that I was found not guilty 
Bip arges at my Board of Rights 
A eswer is very simple. I don’t 
i ap any time in the near 
. eee 86 Chief has three years left on 
! Nt 5 year contract and I think it 
ould be most appropriate for me to 
emain around as a League Director for 
© next few years to stand up to the 


Richard Melendez. 


Chief and Department management and 
‘thallenge them when they are wrong. I 





In just minutes, 
provide you wi 


For more info 


Directors Cliff Ruff, Ted Hunt and Dennis P. Zine with LAPD Officer ae West Covina Gaeneiinan 


Amongst the first Surgeo 
‘Down-up 

Chief of Ophthalmology, 
Associate Clinical Professor, 












continue to have the courage, experi- 
ence and ability to stand up for what is 
right and challenge what is wrong. 


City Hall and 
Our Next Contract 


Word is circulating around City hall 
about our next contract which is due in 
just nine short months on July 1, 2000. 
While we have not begun formal con- 
tract talks, lam making well known that 
we will not settle for “Peanuts” when 


Ww WE 


NN WX WS > 


‘ 


we deserve the best the City can offer. 
Crime is down and the City is a much 


~ DEPTS Ua ae OL 


' Kiss em’ Goodbye: 
a Tired of glasses and contact lenses? 


the new ‘Down-up LASIK’ procedure can now 
th the freedom you’ve been waiting for. 


ua mation or a complimentary screening call 
; 1 (800) 701-4448 


visit us on the internet at www. laser-prk.com 


CREDENTIALS: 
Yaron S. Rabinowitz M.D. 


LASIK procedure’ 






ns in the US to perform the new 


Cedars-Sinai Medical Center 
U.C.L.A. School of Medicine 





cleaner and safer place to live, play and 
work. Each and everyone of you Is re- 
sponsible for the many factors which 
led to the positive turnaround of Los 
Angeles. You deserve appropriate com- 
pensation and rewards for your efforts 
and hard work. 

City revenues have increased and the 
forecast is for more economic growth 
in Los Angeles and the entire Southern 
California region through 2000, ac- 
cording to the Los Angeles Count Eco- 


held at the Staples Center with thou- 
sandsofDemocratsattending andmega 
millions pouring into the City’s cash 
registers. 

What does this all mean for you? It 
means a contract with significant finan- 
cial rewards for all your hard work and 
dedication. I will remain diligent at 
City Hall to make sure your contract 
provides what you want and deserve. 

While the economic package is 1m- 
portant to all, your working condi- 


ates 
Tea 


‘Photo by Dennis P. Zine 


Congratulations to latest LAPD Motor School graduates. 


nomic Development Corp. 

L.A.’s hotel occupancy is up and so 
are the taxes the City receives from 
each hotel and motel room rental. With 
an improved economy, our local sales 
tax revenues have increased and the end 
result is a very positive economic pic- 
ture with millions and millions of addi- 
tional dollars flowing into the City’s 
treasury. 

With all this bright news, we also 
have the nearly complete Staples Con- 
vention Center in downtown L.A. 
The center will be the home of the 
Kings, Lakers and Clippers sports 
teams. Concerts and various conven- 
tions are also being planned for the 


state-of-the-art facility. The 2000 Na- 
tional Democratic Convention will be 


tions must be improved. Since we are 
the only Department in this region 
without a compressed work schedule, 
this matter must be addressed in the 
next contract. I am still working the 
halls at City Hall to make our case for 
a Department wide C.W.S. 

The Chief remains opposed to any 
form of C.W.S. 


In the next few weeks, you will all be 
receiving a League survey asking for 
your input in the contract. Please take 
the time to complete the survey and 
return it to the League. Your participa- 
tion is valuable and important 





continued on page 11 


7 


CORNEA-GENETIC 
EYE INSTITUTE 
at Mark Goodson Building 


CEDARS-SINAI 
MEDICAL CENTER 


‘The only hospital in the 


Los Angeles area with the 









Cedars-Sinai Laser 


VISX/S2 smoothing upgrade’ 


Other Lasers 


CONSULTATIONS: 





Los Angeles 






444 §. San Vicente Blvd., #1102 
Los Angeles, CA 90048 






Santa Clarita 


1900 Soledad Canyon Road 
Canyon Country, CA 91315 






Lancaster 





44407 Tenth St. West 


(CO uito ws \i ce De 






Lancaster, CA 93534 






Telephone number all locations: 


1 800 701-4448 









October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 5 























































Because your aj, 
is only aS good x 
your eyesight. 





Is it busy out there or what? All hear there is always money available for the 
from the troops I speak to is that, even things the bosses want, but overtime for 
with more officers, it is getting harder you? Surely you jest. Just remember what 
and harder to get the job done. There are Councilmember Joel Wachs told me sev- 
several reasons for this. First, we are be- eral years ago when discussing the City 
ing inundated with paperwork. From the budget and our contract. He said, “Never 
patrol officer, to the field supervisor, and _let them tell you they don’t have the 
so on up the line there seems to be a never money. They always have the money. It’s 
ending paper trail that never seems to just a matter of how they want to spend 
please anyone. A very large part of this it.” Obviously, they don’t want to spend 


You've got to be able to act )) 
of an eye. You can't afford to 
You can't stop to clean a sn 


your glasses. 






defoliation of the world is due to our it on overtime, even if it means not being 
wonderful complaint policy. A bypro- able to do an effective job. 
duct of this mess has been the virtual I noticed recently that the Chief has . 


extinction of the commendation. It used reported a projected budget shortfall be- 
to be that supervisors had the time to cause he has had to pay too much over- 
identify and document the good work of __ time to our civilians to get the work done. 
their officers, but nowadays, a supervisor _ It seems that he is having a difficult time LASIK is the latest advance in laser 
has so much to do that he/she veryrarely _ hiring and retaining civilian employees, correction of nearsightness, farsigh- 
gets to actually observe the good work so the few that remain have to work too ; 
done. The only time the actions of their much overtime. I found it amusing that 
Officers comes to their attention is when __ the excuse given for the difficulty in hir- 
someone is complaining. Between com- _ ing and retaining civilians was because 
plaints, projects, and community-based _ civilians feel that they are treated as sec- 
policing, who has time to writecommen- _ ond class employees compared to sworn 
dations? This is a great disservice to our _ officers. The truth of the matter is that 
officers because it creates an out-of-bal- _ civilians are treated too much like sworn “s ee refractive surgery 

ance picture of the quality of work done _ officers in the sense that they are held to a center for VI SION (ea [@ + Free seminars (call for schedule) . 
by our officers. And Lord forbid that a _ the same impossible disciplinary stand- * Financing available/Blue Cross coverage 


edness, and astigmatism. Before yoy 
make a decision, talk to us. 


a 





_— 












og * Over 20 years of experience in 


= si 












supervisor request overtime to work on ards as sworn officers. Why should a * Discount for HMO members 
such trivial matters. civilian work for the Police Department 

It seems that the saving of overtime has _ and be disciplined for things not related (818) 762-0647 Dr. Donald I. Goldstein 
become an almost all-consuming passion to their work when they can work for E-mail: http//www.2020@acvci.com Dr. Alan I. Mandelberg 
of the command staff these days. But | Water and Power, make more EY: 4418 Vineland Avenue, Suite 106 Board Certified Eye Physicians 
Saw in a recent City Council agenda that and have no worry about an out-of-con- North Hollywood andiSunpeons: 
they transferred over $500,000 from the __ trol disciplinary system? a ee 
police payroll account to fund some ci- Remember, the Chief doesn’t pay your a 
vilian firearms positions. Soitseemsthat _ legal bills, he creates them! “ 


c 


-P.O.L.LC.E. Insurance Se 


your first line-of defense. . . 





Your SECOND LINE of defense 
will be there to protect you. 


f 
ve 1-888-879-8228 


POLICE 


PELE DARE WHO PROTECT UY 


INSURANCE SERVICES, LLC 





P.O.LI.C.E. Insurance Services offers the only insurance plan that covers your legal defense costs. 
For more information on enrollment call 1-888-879-8228 


We offer two plans for your protection: 
BASIC PLAN - $500,000 legal defense coverage per year with up to eleven fons a oN. 


of payroll reimbursement for $25 per month. 


FULL COVERAGE PLAN - $1,000,000 legal defense coverage per year with up to twenty-two 


days payroll reimbursement for only $32 per month. 


Loli ollolatm olxon ale (-Ml-Yo [ol Mel-li-lalt-MeloSSiMl rolaololalllRiceliniMRcliccael elite ie) lV Mae late Meth Yi Melate etaTiiisYe? ele clgele |= P 0 L | ( t 


INSURING THOSE WHO PROTECT LS 


while in the course and scope of employment Mlalelatellell Nal exe lel. <-1o Ml o\Me l-Crel i-ToM|atalivelitere company 





Page 6 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


: ami etree tae ce = Fina ee ee ee Ae a eee 















GENS <s Qe — —s 
os ee nt 


e opi OES ‘ . 
ner Llane “a oy \ 5 





photo by Dennis P. Zine is 33 So SENS terre oe ei is SS S ee oy 2 wo “ y iis ¢ Me, —_ . coat 
photo by Dennis P. Zine 


‘League President T 
Bearement arty ed Hunt and City Councilman Alex Padilla recognize Lenny Munoz at his , 
Congratulations to Lenny Munoz for 30 years of service. 


: 


| 
| 






—— 2 eee 









photo by Dennis P. Zine 
; Lenny Munoz receives his retirement plaque 
e McCullough at Lenny’s retirement party from outgoing Presi dent. Dave He pburn 


Director Dennis P. Zine congratulates Let 
Munoz at his retirement party 





photo by Dennis P. Zine 





Ee OA OT FG TS Fee Pane es =T ms 


os a A sama ’@) W Ww f Yr 


AWE SIN TAA NV en On a, SO, swe 


IMENT NIVAIN NTS 


a is currently accepting applications for: 


le PLUS up to 5% bilingual pay 
(after academy). To qualify for bilingual 





















The City of Santa An 


& NON-bilingual Lateral Police offiéers 


($4579-$505 1/mo.) BM AG ) 
é Bilingual Lateral Police Officers ee pay the applicant must be fluent in 
($4579-$505 1/mo.,Plus 5%) | | _English& 2nd approved | 
° 7 ; | 
¢ Entry level Police Recruits-bilingual language. ‘ 3 
($3449-$4194 during academy), i PLUS pay increase for education and ; 
& Police Officer-academy paaer ate sgl wma years of service up to $5847.00 per 
“wu montiy-\ ; 
(gales ee0> lf +. eis ae nag liigey OY * PLUS city’ paid retirement | 

. "oe > ii aller kd, * PLUS excellent benefits package 


For application packet, contact: 
City of pone Ana- Personnel 
















recruitment may close at Bi ss _ 
Police Officers perform 4 full" on oi 20 Civi ay Plaza 


duties in a progressive comm inity-policing a S4 San y oS 92702 
environment. Lateral Transfer Applicants mv Ty c 347- 5340 
must possess a V 


and have complete 


as a sworn law enforce 
State of California within the last pa eet OTHER MINORITY CANDIDATES ARE 
For additional duties and requirements, St STRONGLY ENCOURAGED TO APPLY. 


application packet. | 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 7 





alid basic POST Certificate > SS 


d the probationary period — ier | 
ment officer in the : THE CITY OF SANTA ANA IS AN EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER. WOMEN AND 





CLIFF RUFF 





Vote 


As you receive your October Blue 
Line, you will shortly receive your bal- 
lot for the primary election of League 
Directors. This year’s primary election 
will be held for the position of Lieuten- 
ant, Sergeant, Detective and Police Of- 
ficer. Next year’s Board will have a 
minimum of three new Directors with 
the retirements of Lieutenant Dave 
Hepburn, Officer Lenny Munoz, and 
Detective Gary Fullerton. 

Their retirements represent signifi- 
cant loss of leadership, knowledge, and 
experience. It will take the new Direc- 
tors six months to a year of training to 
become fully-functional Directors, and 
this is in a contract year. 

It is alarming that two out of three 
members do not vote in League elec- 
tions. Is that because of voter apathy or 
is it that you’re satisfied with our work 
at the League? Your future salaries, 
pension benefits, representation and 
working conditions depends on the 
skills, knowledge, and quality of the 


nine Directors you elect to serve you. 
The election process is where you, the 
membership, hold the Directors ac- 
countable for their work ethic and serv- 
ice to the members. 

Should you allow one-third of the 
membership to control your destiny? 
Voting is an important function you 
have in the direction and destiny of 
your bargaining unit. 

Many times it is difficult for police 
officers who do not know the candi- 
dates or issues to become interested in 
the election process. Most often League 
Directors are elected on the basis of 
name recognition or popularity rather 
than job qualifications and skills. Once 
elected though, all Directors are sent to 
schools and seminars to hone their 
skills. The membership should do re- 
search and interview the candidates as 
to their experience and skills that would 
qualify them to be a good servant to the 
membership. 

Ask the candidates to come to the roll 
calls or other forums to address issues. 


POSITIVE TERMITE CONTROL 


Complete Pest Control Service 
KH.A., G.I., Escrows, State Licensed, Bonded 


TERMITES - ROACHES 
ANTS, ETC. 


Call Bill McKenna 


Gemological Institute of America 









with a Large Loose 
Diamond Inventory 
4 
Jewelry Manufacturers, 
Designers and Gemologists 
4 
Bangles, Anniversary Rings, 
Colored Stone Rings and 
Much More Available 











(323) 254-5161 


6122 N. Figueroa St., Los Angeles 90042 


Members 


SAVE 


Up to 


(N70 


Below Retail 
without sacrificing 


Financing and Layaways 


All Major Credit Cards Accepted 


; 213/627-7620 


Quality 
Ings 


Over 3000 Contemporary 
and Traditional Designs 


Providing Personalized Service 
for Over 10 years 


What do the candidates know aboul 


pensions, employee representation, ne 
gotiating, interacting with management 
and politicians? Beware of pie-in the 
sky promises OF reform-minded candi 
dates without facts. | for 
experience, knowledge, professional- 
ism, and a commitment to serve the 
membership. 

Most important, VOTE. Participate 
in the process that determines your fu- 


ture well-being. 


Look 


Pension Issues 


Eighty percent of LAPD is on the 
Article 35 pension plan, which is vastly 
inferior to the Article 18 pension. Any- 
one hired after December 1980, is on 
Article 35. In a year, the first eligible 
20-year retirements will be vested and 
eligible to leave. 

The shortcoming of that system will 
become recognizable and relevant to a 
vast majority of the membership who 
will start demanding improvements to 
their pension benefits. 

Thanks to the good work of Gary 
Mattingly and Tom Lopez in the Pen- 


gion Department, our pe 
close to being fully fund 


































Mayo! Richard Riordan 
vantage of the large equi 
is rumored to propose pay), 4 
million less in City contrjt iy 
pensions next year, That could Ny 
news for next year 8 contra ny 


they can’t say, “We do “ity 
money to give you 4a rals 
the money for a raise because -» % 
failing to fully fund the | 
negative side to this $100 m Me 
ened payment is that if they y 3 
fund the system we could neg,)),, 
proved pension benefits for , im, 
officers. | 
Pay attention to your pensioy 


; Vot 
no matter how much time yoy}. 
the job. Sooner or later we 4 ‘ll 
the pension. Always work for imp, 4 

Tove 


pension benefits. 
Be careful out there. Alway. th 
safety and plan for your future ful 
participating in the League electig 
process and voting for the best-quali: 
fied candidates to serve the entire mee’ 
bership. : 


> 
% 





MORTGAGE LOANS 


FREEPORT 
FINANCIAL 
GROUP, INC. 
REAL ESTATE LOANS 


2659 Townsgale Road, #232 - Westlake Village, CA 91361 
Pager: 805-446-7429 


Phone: 800-562-6495 

Fax: 805-449-7286 

Purchases - Refinances - 
Pon): 


e@ 3% Down 
Cost Loans 


@ Community Homebuyer 
Program 
# 95% Loans Available 





Better Business Bureau 


4 


125% Equity Lines: 
Pay off cars, credit 
cards, ete. & have 
a tax write off. 


eo Owner & Non-Owner 
« 0 Points & No 


« Conforming - Jumbos 
« EZ Qualifiers & 
Cash-Out Loans 


Additional $50 discount with 
minimum purchase for all active 
and retired officers and family. 
Present this ad at time of purchase. 






















a 


John Matarazzo 
Retired LAPD 
Senior Loan Officer 


~~ SS 











































SSritul 


550 S. Hill Street * Suite 620 © International Jewelry Center, 6th Floor * L.A., CA 
Appointment Suggested * Convenient Parking in Building 






Page 8 / The Thin Blue Line / October '99 





Sn: : 


ils 


on Sie: N ae i 2: : Nh 
ea yal peace officers of their departments, 





Legislative Update 


On J 
ment mai ive ae eect the 

Stogra sea decided to post the 
ESLOs") on the Departiient'y Wes 
<i rtment’s We 
_ ee? ONLINE.org) without the 
a cane After receiving nu- 
ee iplaints from SLOs regard- 
—- 4 concerns, we at the League 
a Bae Cabeneuage management not 

Pe artncte sce photographs on the 
officers S Web site without such 

consent. After management 
refused to accommodate our legitimate 
Safety concerns, we sought the assis- 
tance of the Police Commission, who 
assigned Commissioner Gerald Chaleff 
(now President of the Commission) to 
attempt to resolve the dispute. The par- 
ties had one meeting with Commis- 
sioner Chaleff, who eventually sided 
with management’s views on the issue. 
The League was then forced to file a 
Civil action in Superior Court seeking 
to enjoin the posting of officers’ photo- 
graphs. 

On October 9, 1998, Judge Joseph R. 
Kalin agreed with our legal arguments 
and issued a preliminary injunction 
prohibiting the L.A.P.D. from posting 
on the Web site the photograph of any 
SLO who does not voluntarily consent 
to the posting. 

We did not stop there. Being cogni- 
zant of the fact that throughout the State 
of California law enforcement adminis- 
trators were probably giving little 
the effects and safety con- 
bh cite N_s ON 







ele 


‘we decided to sponsor legislation that 
would offer all peace officers through- 
out the state the protections we had 
obtained locally from Judge Kalin. On 
February 26, 1999, Assemblymember 
Dean Florez (D-Bakersfield) intro- 
duced Assembly Bill 1586 (AB 1586) 
at our request. We are proud to inform 
you that on September 7, 1999, Gover- 
nor Gray Davis signed AB 1586 into 
law after it passed both the Assembly 
and Senate. 

Effective January 1, 2000, AB 1586 
will add section 3307.5 to the Govern- 
ment Code. This new section adds a 
provision to the Public Safety Officers 
Procedural Bill of Rights to prohibit a 
public agency from requiring a public 
safety officer to consent to the posting 
of his or her photograph or identity on 
the Internet if the officer reasonably 
believes that the disclosure may result 
in a threat, harassment, intimidation or 
harm to that officer or his or her family. 
The new law will also permit the officer 
to notify the department or agency to 


Our Dentistry 1s 
known for gentle 
patient care with a 
patient explanation 


O71 1 BY, (ree 
(818) 789-3263 






Mark Siegel 


‘ SS : * : : S | = a Ww 
ey Sa ae 


ruary 16, 1999, the Police Commission 
- approved 333 HGAs for tht Depart 


CMH 
WA 
\ Ss 


~ 


~ 


cease and desist from that disclosure 
and to seek an injunction and a civil 
monetary penalty in an amount not to 
exceed $500 per day for unauthorized 
use of the officer’s photograph after 
receipt of the notice to cease and desist. 

Our sincere thanks and appreciation 
go to Assemblymember Florez and to 
Tim Yaryan, our lobbyist in Sacra- 
mento, for introducing and guiding this 
very significant legislation through the 
legislative process for us on behalf of 


all state public safety officers. Great 
job! 


Home Garaging 
Authorities Revoked 


At the direction of the Police Com- 
mission, L.A.P.D. management was di- 
rected to drastically reduce all 
home-garaging authorities for City- 
owned police cars. As a result, Chief 
Bernard Parks established a new Home 
Garaging Review Committee 
(“HGRC”) with the Chief of Staff as 
Chair; the Commanding Officer, Op- 
erations-Headquarters Bureau; and the 
Commanding Officer, Human Re- 
sources Bureau as Committee mem- 
bers. The HGRC met with all the 
Department executive officers and al- 
legedly determined the “operational ne- 
cessity” to continue, increase, or 
decrease home-garaging authorities 
throughout the Department. The HGRC 

submitted its recommendations 
through channels. As a result, on Feb- 


ment, an embarrassing 33 percent re- ' 
duction from a total of 495 HGAs, not 
including motorcycles and command- 

ing officers’ cars (their cars are pro- 

tected by their MOU). Additionally, as 

a result of the reduced HGAs, the De- 

partment must now address parking re- 

quirements to identify 162 additional 
parking spaces that are primarily in the 
Civic Center area. At an average cost of 
$100 per parking space per month, the 
cost of additional parking spaces 1S es- 
timated at about $194,400! 

Police management will have to meet 
and confer with the League over the 
impact of the decision that the HGAs 
revocations will have on the wages, 
hours and other working conditions of 
the officers to be affected by this mind- 
less revocation of their HGAs. We in- 
deed have strong opposition to the 
changes and full implementation of the 
HGAs revocations will most likely take 
as long aS SIX months to satisfactorily 
resolve. We will keep you posted of 
future developments. 








_e@ Full Service Dentistry f 

rc Infection Control Practiced — 

e Emergency Care 

@ Delta Dental and Most | 
Other Insurance Accepted ae 

_ e Saturday and Evening appointments 





RES 









What is very sad and ironic about 
management’s actions in this regard is 
that the Police Commission and police 
management refuse to recognize that 
the Department is fast collapsing inter- 
nally. For instance, we hear that rou- 
tinely officers and detectives are 
being denied needed overtime to 
properly perform their law enforce- 
ment duties. This is not funny, but the 
crooks in this great City, the ones that 
steal professionally hundreds of thou- 
sands of dollars worth in autos, boats, 
jewelry, etc., must be laughing out 
very loud. What happened along the 
way to cause management to lose 
sight of the many studies that have 
clearly shown that 10 percent of the 
criminals commit 70 percent of 
crimes? Our once great police depart- 
ment is now the laughing stock in the 
law enforcement community. LASO 
detectives, CHP detectives, TRAP 
task force detectives and all other law 





enforcement task forces statewide all 
have cars, overtime funds and other lo 
gistical resources in support of their 
missions, butour LAPD detectives and 
task forces’ personnel do not. This 1s 
truly aprofessionalembarrassment! 

Oh well, it may be that soon when 

another law enforcement agency calls, 
or our dedicated detectives get a hot tip, 
they will have to let it go if it’s after 
1300 hours because there is no over- 
time available. Can we just imagine the 
millions in lost property and lost evi- 
dence throughout the City of Los An- 
geles? Will our expert professional 
detectives have to take an RTD bus to 
respond after duty hours to the next 
major mass shooting scene? Not our 
idea of doing things! 

Keep in touch and have a safe and 
happy Halloween. 


, 
“9 


News Release - September 16, 1999 


Los Angeles - The Los Angeles Police Protective League (“League”), the 
police union for over 9,600 LAPD officers of the rank of Lieutenant and below, 
agrees with the statement made by Chief Parks that yesterday was indeed not a 
good day in Los Angeles because of the relief from duty of 12 of our members. 

We have been in touch with all of the involved officers and our General 
Counsel has assigned panel attorneys to each of them for legal consultation. 

We wish to remind the media and the public, in general, of the highly 
professional and competent work being performed on a daily basis, 24-hours-a- 
day, by the vast majority of our LAPD officers. All of them, like us at the union, 
do not condone nor support criminal actions by any individual - private citizen 
or officer. We must also avoid passing judgment on the guilt or innocence of our 
12 officers simply because the Chief of Police acted within his legal duty in 
assigning these officers to inactive duty. The investigation is ongoing and 
eventually all relevent facts will be publicly disclosed. 

We are hopeful and confident that the majority of the 12 officers relieved from 
duty will return to their jobs. Let’s protect and be concerned about them and their 


families, as well as for their reputation and good name until such time when their 
guilt or innocence is finally established in a court of law. 


~~ 









BS x 
LAN sa 


< 


Working New Year’s Eve...? 








Watch off cancelled? Missing the new year’s party? 


Dublin's St. Patrick's 2000 festival is hotting up to 
be one of the best ever with top Irish and interna- 
tional entertainment. An intoxicating mix of 
pageantry, color music and madness. During St. 
Patrick's week there will be a Monster Ceili in St. 
Stephen's Green. One of the world's great street 
theatre companies will perform a unique nighttime 
spectacular on the streets, the river and roof tops of 
the city. Party at An Garda Siochana's (Irish Police) 
exclusive social club. 













The party of a lifetime is on, how you get to it is up 
to you. There are three packages to choose from, or 
you can create your own package to suit your indi- 
vidual needs. Simply call (800) 4-Celtic for infor- 
mation and assistance in making this the trip of a 
lifetime. A deposit of two hundred dollars is all that 
is needed to reserve your trip. 


CST #: 1008137-40 


Join us as we ring in the new Millennium at a very special LAPD celebration in Ireland. 
Celtic Travel is proud to offer reduced LAPD tour prices. 


THE PARTY IS IN IRELAND WHERE THE CRAIC* IS MIGHTY 


Celtic Travel 
3520 Geary Boulevard + San Francisco + California 94118 »* (800) 4-Celtic 
Tel 415.386.7774 + Fax 415.750.9670 + Email celticpaddysday2000@yahoo.com 


Tour A: March 14-25 - tour includes air, accommo- 
dation, breakfast, dinner, coach’ guide expenses, 
entry fees, and entertainment for two evenings. One 
of the envenings entertainment is in a sixteeth cen- 
tury castle with dinner included! $1,350 


Tour B: March 14-25 - tour includes air, accommo- 
dation, breakfast, coach/guide expenses, entry fees, 
and entertainment for two evenings. This tour is dif- 
ferent from Tour A in that you have two free days 
and you do not have dinner included in Dublin. 
Dinner is included after leaving Dublin. $1,230 


Tour C: March 14-21 - tour includes air, accommo- 
dation and breakfast with one nights entertainment 
at An Garda Siochana's (Irish Police) exclusive 
social club. Transfers to and from the airport and the 
social club. $995 


(Pronounced “crack", Gaelic for fun) 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 9 








f 


\ 
\] 
4 

/ 


by Gary Ingemunson, Attorney at Law 


“Never send to know for 
whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee” 





Slow Learners? 


L.A.P.D. management is largely 
credited with the impetus that resulted 
in the passage of the Public Safety Of- 
ficers Procedural Bill of Rights Act. 
The League was energized by the unfair 
treatment of officers and sought a set of 
laws to protect an officer’s basic rights. 
Testimony of L.A.P.D. officers on their 
mistreatment by management in front 
of the lawmakers helped push the leg- 
islation through. That was over twenty 
years ago. Nowadays, most officers on 
the job have never known anything 
else. The right to representation, rea- 
sonable hours of interrogation, bath- 
room breaks, prohibition of threats, and 
SO on are taken for granted. In the end, 
management’s mistreatment of the 
troops had a beneficial effect, namely, 
Statewide recognition of basic rights for 

police officers. 


Almost five years ago, L.A.P.D. 
management radically altered the way 
that Officer Involved Shootings 
(O.I.S.) were handled. The League re- 
sponded by establishing an attorney roll 
out program whenever an officer be- 
came involved in a shooting with a hit. 
Again, the younger officers on the job 
have never known anything different. It 
seems normal to them that they are en- 
titled to an attorney “on the spot” when 
they are involved in an O.I.S. Once 
again, management’s actions ulti- 

























Sails each Sunday— 


3 AND 4 DAY BAJA 


7 DAY CRUISES 











Dy Carnival Cruise Lines 


THE MOST POPULAR CRUISE LINE IN THE WORLD! 


Friday and Monday sallings— 


CARIBBEAN CRUISES 


Each Saturday and Sunday— 


* Guaranteed Savings 
* Special 3rd/4th passenger fares 
* Free cabin upgrades 


Prices and special offers vary with sailing date. 
Port taxes and airfare, if needed, are additional. 


Call our cruise experts for full details. Or visit us on 
the web at: www.awcv.com 


Carnival Cruise Lines Agency of the Year 





—John Donne 


mately ended up benefiting police offi- 
cers. 

Now in 1999, L.A.P.D. manage- 
ment’s decisions may ultimately give 
officers another benefit. The irrational 
and draconian disciplinary system in- 
stituted in 1998 has managed to make 
almost every officer on the job a “sus- 
pect.” If not today, probably tomorrow. 
By placing every officer in jeopardy of 
being gangster-slapped by the disci- 
pline system in one way or another, 
management has created a fertile field 
for the opinion that an attorney in your 
war bag could be a good thing. Once 
again, the League has responded by ne- 
gotiating a legal plan making attorney 
representation possible for all inter- 
views, Skelly responses and Board of 
Rights. Even reimbursement for taking 
days off. Management should be hear- 
ing warning bells. The final result of 
this is unknown at this time, but let me 
speculate. 


A New Element in the 
Discipline Equation - 
Economics 


The P.O.L.I.C.E. legal plan is admin- 
istered by an insurance company. Insur- 
ance companies are really good at one 
thing above all others, making money. 
They analyze risk down to the fifth 
decimal place. They can tell you that 
young males will crash more than 
young females. They can tell you at 


Some vacations are just more FUN! 


MEXICO CRUISES 


7 pay MEXICAN RIVIERA 


from 
only 


$659. 
$194.°° 


from 
only 


from 
only 


$499.°° 


American Way Cruise Vacations 


5743 Corsa Avenue 


Westlake Village, CA 91362 
818/707-0397 or 800/456-SAIL 


Serving the Law Enforcement Community since 1980 
Internet address- http://www.awcv.com 


CA # 2001446-40 








a And Then There is the 
Nature of Attorneys 


Suddenly, soon twenty-five o, 
League attorneys will be spe, me 
major portion of their time deg), >! 
L.A.P.D. disciplinary probley "ith 
sive Internal Affairs investiga... ” 
become quickly known amo, ; 
torneys, as they already 4; 
among the defense representa; 
difference will be that the attorp, 
not suffer the same handicap tha 


he 
defense reps do because the ay, C 
B 


what age the young male becomes 
better driver. They can tell you that 
drivers that get good grades crash less 
than those that do not. They can tell you 
that wearing seat belts reduces injuries, 
that drivers training reduces accidents 
and that drunk driving public education 
messages on televisions reduce drunk 
driving accidents. They are great bean 
counters. They not only know the sta- 
tistics, they know how to reduce pay- 
outs to keep the premiums coming 1n at 
a profit. 

This kind of expertise and the money 
behind it will now be analyzing the 


L.A.P.D. disciplinary system at the re- 





Meys 


do not work for the Departmen, i 
abused defense rep can report the bu 
ay Se 







quest of the League. Risk analysis and to the Department where it js Usually 2 
then risk management. How can this af- ignored, but the attorney will oo right 
fect the lay of the land in the next two OF into court. Being told to sit down ang ni 
three years? Here are some possibilities. | shutup by a higher ranking investipator o1 
In a year, the League's insurance may happen to the defense repre. al 
company will know down to the nickel sentative, but it won t happen to the B 
where its representation dollar is being attorneys. A different Standard of be. F 
spent. The next step will be to manage havior will be in force when nop-De. | 
the risk. Reducing the thousands of dis- partment attorneys are present a, T 
ciplinary interviews would be a logical interviews. 
first step. Any sergeant out there will Also, thirty League attorneys jm- 
tell you that he or she spends far too _mersed in L.A.P.D. matters day after M 
much time investigating obviously day are going to stumble across many a 
baloney complaints against officers be- potential lawsuit where lack of interest 
cause of the 1.28 policy. Everyone’ or lack of knowledge previously safe- al 
probably agrees with this, but nothing guarded the Department. With a little $s 
is done about it. Our insurance com- experience, the attorneys will be falling hi 
pany has political clout. Maybe the all over themselves setting the Depart- b: 
Chief will hear from the Mayor about ment up for future action in court. Ex- ) 


wasting police assets on frivolous com- 
plaints. 

False complaints could be another 
area that might be addressed by an in- 
surance company with an eye on reduc- 
ing unnecessary interviews. How about 
a public education program about 148.6 
P.C. (False complaint on a police offi- 
cer)? Sort of a “make a false complaint, 


go to jail” billboard program. How 
about some political push to actually 


prosecute some of these liars? 


Maybe the figures will show that a 
significant amount of attorney repre- 
sentation time is being expended in in- 
terviews regarding off-duty complaints 
from disgruntled neighbors, unhappy 
soon to be ex-spouses, civil disputes, 
and the like. How about assigning some 
appellate lawyers to focus their talents 
on creating case law recognizing pri- 
vacy rights of police officers and re- 
stricting the Department’s discipline 
investigations where there are bona fide 
civil courts and family law courts spe- 
cifically trained and experienced in 
handling these kinds of disputes? 

What if a particular commanding of- 
ficer “recaps” far more disciplinary 
scalps in his or her division than the 
average commanding officer. How 
about targeting that commanding offi- 
cer for multiple lawsuits until that C.O. 
no longer has time for an above average 
number of cover letters because of all 
the time being spent in depositions? 

To our insurance company, it’s noth- 
ing personal; it’s just business. 


aa 


¢ Lumber Racks 
¢ Bedliners 
¢ Tool Boxes 


¢ Bumpers 
¢ Carpet Kits 


aS 
2h 


> ag w 
a. ae 
a : 
oN 


See 
ee P 


(805)259-25 1 | 
25897 San Fernando Rd. 
(Next to the Saugus Cafe) 


¢ Tonneau Covers ° Sliding Windows 
¢ Bug Shields 


= = 





pect an increase in lawsuits somewhere 
in the vicinity of last year’s increase in 
personnel complaints. 

Finally, scheduling interviews will 
become more difficult for everyone. 
This is unfortunate, but easily foresee- 
able. A defense rep might be ordered to 
be somewhere at a particular date and 
time, but that will be a little more d\\l\- 
cult to accomplish though an attorne y's 


secretary. And the interview ftse/; 
likely be more complex (read Io 
with attorney input. Some of them think 
they are being paid by the word. In 
short, the Department is likely to look 
back at the good old days when all they 
had to deal with was defense reps. 
(Well, they should have treated the reps 
better and given them more support.) 
The defense reps, on the other hand, 
will likely welcome the reinforce- 
ments. Accused officers will get the 
best of both worlds. A defense rep fa- 
miliar with the institutional issues an¢ 
an attorney familiar with the legal 1s- 
sues, each supporting the other. 

Ten years from now, it may well be 
that the new officers will think that 
officers have always had the right (© 
have an attorney assist them in a per 
sonnel complaint interview. Or maybe, 
L.A.P.D. management will have finally 
learned its lesson and fair treatment 0! 
officers and good leadership will make 
attorney participation unnecessary... 

Nah. 

Be legally careful out there. 


GNOUPER SHELLS AND 
TU k¢ AVEEaSSonS 


See Us & Save! 





a } 


oon 


(818)892-4327 
8454 Sepulveda Blvd. 
(Just North of Roscoe) 








ae 








Ptr a 2 So . SS. Fo 2 


Zine 
~—Shnued from pagels maeainnanany 
Ex ‘ 
| ©cutive Board Position 
Wish to tha 


) 
2Oard for un 
© the new 


nk my colleagues on the 
animously voting for me to 
mitieaye fre Secretary. lam com- 
Gane eh ate a professional and ac- 
recone aes the League's official 
the nian | ur documents will meet 
nnde: ae Standards of excellence 
responsita een eye. This added 
~ ee ity will not detract from 
: NY activities at City Hall. 


Minority Associations 
and the League 


Bip aie eee nashag a rocky relation- 
. e Department’s mi- 
Fe Organizations Over the years. 
ae ee eee close to 

S groups, oth- 
€rs have not shared an open and cordial 


And They Keep Moving On 


Many of you have asked about the 
number of officers leaving the De- 
partment. I have heard many rumors 
and decided to find out the facts and 
put the rumors to rest. The following 
information was obtained from offi- 
cial City sources and reflect accurate 
records on personnel leaving the De- 
partment. 

In addition to the growing departure 
of highly trained, dedicated and experi- 
enced personnel, the Department is 
having a difficult time recruiting new 
officers. There are millions of dollars in 
both federal and local funds available 
to hire new officers, but fewer candi- 
dates are applying to join. There are a 
number of reasons for this lack of inter- 
est in the LAPD. It is the only Depart- 
ment in Southern California without 
any form of Compressed Work Sched- 
ule. While many of our officers are 
quitting to join departments with a 
C.W.S., others are just not interested in 


WHY IS YOUR BOSS A MORON? 





“e 
° i 
me eet” 


This billboardirecen 


. 





relationship. I have volunteered to es- 
tablish a new committee called the “Af- 


filiate Organizations.” This 
organization will invite all of the De- 
pattment’s organizations representing 
Sworn members to join in quarterl} 
meetings to share concerns and work 


together to solve problems and improve 
the working conditions of all our mem- 


tly appeared in Los Angeles. It is NOT paid for by the League! 


joining a department without a C.W:S. 
and operating in a 1950’s tyrannical 
management style. 
Will Department management listen? 
I believe they are beginning to listen 
and make subtle changes for the better. 
Terminations at Boards of Rights have 
reduced and we are currently working 


with the Department to modify the out 


Morgan 
continued from page 3 


will all lose. Once again, I will keep 
you informed of the negotiation proc- 
ess for this important event. Remem- 
ber, this event is scheduled after our 
contract expires. I don’t think, I need to 
say more. 


Recommendation to 
Establish an ‘AD HOC’ 
Committee on the 
Delegates System and 
Possible Reform was 
Made to the Board 


During our Delegates Conference, I 
went to the Delegates and asked them 
how and what should Delegates be do- 
ing and how could we do it better. The 
responses were overwhelming. I hon- 
estly believe the ideas and plans for our 
organization will greatly enhance our 
ability to communicate and provide 
service to our members. I requested the 
Board authorize an “AD HOC” com- 
mittee be established to evaluate and 
prepare a report that would address the 
various modifications to the current 
system. I believe the report will clearly 
benefit our members and the future of 
our organization. I plan on having such 
a report completed by the first of the 
year and hopefully implement the rec- 


ai ely 


ommendations as directed by the com- 
mittee and the Board, This will further 
assist us in our contract negotiations 
and our future plans. 


The Los Angeles Police 
Relief Association Prepares 
To Move Into Their New 
Facility at the Protective 
League Building! 

Yes, the construction, improve- 
ments, new furniture, and move in are 
almost complete. The project took al- 
most year to put together and the 
Boards worked collectively towards 
this important project. The member- 
ship will now have one location to 
address their medical, dental, and per- 
sonal needs. I believe the project will 
greatly improve the working relation- 
ship between the two organizations 
and the ultimate service to our mem- 
bers. I would like to once again thank 
the Police Relief Board of Directors 
for their support and effort in moving 
this project forward. This project is 
something I have worked extensively 
on for almost two years and the end 
results are very rewarding. The vision 
and direction of your Protective 

League is improving and our future 
will continue to address such recom- 
mendations and efforts. 











bers. The meetings will be open to all of control 1.28 complaint process. The 


: 


oo 


“ Affilate Organization” members with 
the leaders of those organizations chair- 
ing the meetings on a rotating basis. No 
single organization will control the af- 
fliates since all organizations will be 
equal and share in the responsibilities. 

It sometime appears that instead of 
being the “LAPD Family” we are po- 
tential guests for the Jerry Springer 
Show. I hope all elected repre- 
sentatives of the many Department 
Affiliate Organizations see the bene- 
fits of working together and partici- 
pate in the “Affiliate Organizations.’ 

Our first order of business will be to 
refer to all Department Organizations 
as “Affiliate Organizations” instead 
of minority organizations. Working 
together, we can all make a differ- 
ence and improve the working con- 
ditions of the Department for all 
personnel. 

The following organizations cur- 
rently assist personnel in a variety of 
ways ranging from training programs 
and promotional seminars to social and 
diversity understanding. 


Golden State Peace Officers Assn. 
Latin American Law Enforcement Assn. 
Law Enforcement Assn. of Asian Pacific 
Los Angeles Police Command Officers 
Assn. 
Los Angeles Police Foundation 
Los Angeles Police Historical Society 
Los Angeles Police Memorial Foundation 
Los Angeles Police Protective League 
Los Angeles Police Reserve Foundation 
Los Angeles Police Revolver & Athletic Club 
Los Angeles Women Police Officers Assn. 
Oscar Joel Bryant Foundation 
_ Shomrim Society of Southern California 


William H. Parker Police Memorial 
Foundation 


Department appears willing to meet 
and confer on issues with a new coop- 
erative attitude. Could it be that Chief 
Parks has realized that he has success- 
fully alienated the League and thou- 
sands of officers, many community 
groups and nearly the entire City Coun- 
cil with his arrogance in his first two 
years as Chief? Could it be that he is 
changing to gain support for his confir- 
mation for a second term? 


SUIVEY.--ceeeeree 
The following numbers reflect Pen- 

sions, Resignations, Terminations and 

Deaths during the listed fiscal years: 


1994-95 479 
1995 - 96 416 
1996 - 97 458 
1997 - 98 373 
1998 - 99 478 


There were 169 Resignations, Terminations 
and Deaths in the last 6 months of the 1998 


calendar year. 


Are things better, worse OF just the 
same? You be the judge.. 


City Hall Activity 

The City Council has been pushing 
forward with ordinances necessary to 
implement the new voter-approved 
City Charter Reform measures. 

Council President John Ferraro 
appointed Council Members Laura 
Chick, Jackie Goldberg, Nate 
Holden, Mike Feuer and Joel Wachs 
to oversee the process. 

1 will be monitoring the progress 
and making sure you are protected 
with the new ordinances. The new 
City Charter takes effect July ] , 2000. 
Many of the Charter’s provisions im- 
pact our job and benefits. 








City Hall Profile- 
Do you Know Them? 


You are on patrol and observe a 
minor traffic violation. You stop the 
violator in the E plate vehicle and 
approach with curiosity. The person 
does not look familiar, but you be- 
lieve they may be an elected City of- 
ficial. You ask for their driver’s 
license, vehicle registration and in- 
surance card. As the person removes 
their driver’s license, you notice a 
badge and become more curious. It 
turns out that the person is an elected 
city official. You politely explain 
the violation to the individual and 
decide to give them a warning. They 
depart and you return to patrol duties. 
You notify your supervisor of the in- 


- 


Director Dennis P. Zine and President of Rec & Parks, Steve Soboroff, inspecting the Staples 
Convention Center. ae 





~ é 
(Ee os % 


Mi? Toes eae Teaeee 
, - BAW A 

09h. matinee atc i 

= ote ‘ s 


cident and that is the last you hear of it. 

In order for you to easily recog- 
nize our elected City officials, lam 
going to feature their photo and 
profile each month. This month 
City Attorney James K. Hahn will 
be profiled. In future months, all 
council members and other elected 
City officials will be featured. 

See Political frontline Section on 
page 12. 


Dates To Remember 


October is the month to dress funny 
and act the fool. Just visit Hollywood 
Blvd. on Halloween and you will see 
for yourself. It is quite an experience. 

Happy Halloween to you and yours, 


oe 
October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 11 











James Kenneth Hahn 


James Kenneth Hahn was born July 3, 
1950, the son of Kenneth and Ramona 
Hahn, and has been a lifelong resident of 
Los Angeles. He and his wife, Monica 
Ann, were married May 19, 1984, and 
have a daughter, Karina Natalie, and a 
son, Jackson Kenneth Hahn. The Hahns 
reside in San Pedro. 

Hahn attended Los Angeles city 
schools and graduated magna cum laude 
from Pepperdine University with a 
Bachelor of Arts degzee in English in 





City Attorney James Hahn and Dennis P. Zine. 


1972. Hahn was graduated with a Juris 
Doctor degree in 1975 from Pepperdine 
School of Law and was admitted to the 
California Bar later that same year. After 


being admitted to the California Bar, 
Hahn joined the Los Angeles City Attor- 
ney’s Office in 1975 and worked as a city 
prosecutor for four years. Hahn was suc- 
cessful in his first run for public office 
and was elected City Controller on June 
2, 1981. He was sworn in on July | of that 
year as the fifth and youngest City Con- 
troller ever elected to the office. 

On Apmil 9, 1985, Hahn was elected 
Los Angeles City Attorney in the primary 
election. He was sworn in on July 1 of 





that year. He has since been re-elected to 
three additional four-year terms. He was 
sworn in on July 1, 1997, to begin a new 
term which will run until July 1, 2001. 


Back Pain 
Relief Without 
Surgery 


INTRADISCAL THERMAL MODULATION 
Recently Featured on: 
Good Morning America & Channel 4 News 


* Board Certified M.D. 
with 10 Years Experience 


Of @) Os Bestiitere 


We accept most insurance plans. 


Please call 


888-325-0149 


for more information. 


Please refer to this ad chen calling. 


3445 Pacific COAST HIGHWAY, SUITE 300, TORRANCE 


Page 12 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





















and desist. 


As City Attorney, Hahn manages an 


office comprised by 400 attorneys, 
backed up by a support staff of 358, 
which is one of the largest municipal law 
offices in the nation. The Criminal 
Branch of the office files almost 160,000 
criminal complaints each year. The Civil 
Branch of the office—which is the legal 
advisor to all city departments and agen- 
cies—not only handles traditional mu- 
nicipal legal matters, such as land use, 
contracts, personal injury and zoning, but 
also represents the city’s billion-dollar 
pension system, the Harbor Department, 
Airport Department, Department of 
Water and Power, Community Redevel- 
opment Agency and the city Housing 
Authonty, which is one of the largest 
public housing authorities in the nation. 
Under Hahn’s leadership, the Civil 

Branch underwent a complete reorgani- 
zation in 1998 to modemize its operation. 
The reorganization included creation of a 
new Police Division and LAPD Liaison 
Unit to consolidate and expand the re- 
sources dedicated to providing legal 
services to the Los Angeles Police De- 
partment. A part of the Police Division is 
the Police Litigation Section, which 
Hahn created in 1991 to meet the chal- 
lenge of the growing number of claims 
and lawsuits filed against the LAPD. 
That effort has resulted in a dramatic 
decline in the cost to taxpayers of claims 
and lawsuits since the litigation explo- 
sion that began hitting government enti- 
ties around the nation in the early 1990s. 
Hahn also has been a leader in promoting 
risk management procedures as long- 
term solutions to the problems that lead 
to litigation costs. 


As City Attorney, Hahn has focused 
his efforts on restoring and preserving the 
quality of life in Los Angeles neighbor- 
hoods through the innovative use of the 
law. In June, 1998, those efforts were 
recognized by the Los Angeles County 
Bar Association which honored him with 
its Career Achievement Award. 


Upon being elected City Attorney in 
1985, Hahn created a Gang Unit and 
made its first assignment the writing of a 
package of new state laws—the Street 
Terrorism Enforcement and Prevention 
(STEP) Act—designed to combat crimi- 
nal street gangs as a new form of organ- 
ized crime. Hahn, who has made 


Governor Signs Internet Photo Bj| 


League-sponsored bill, AB 1586, authored by Assembly Member Deg, 
Florez, was recently signed into law by Governor Gray Davis, 


The bill prohibits a police officer from being required by his or he, 
employing department or any other public agency, as a condition og 
employment, to consent to the use of his or her photograph or identity 
as a public safety officer on the Internet for any purpose if the Officer 
reasonably believes that the disclosure may result in a threat, 
harassment, intimidation, or harm to that officer or his or her family, 
The bill would permit the officer to notify the department or agency 
to cease or desist from that disclosure and to seek an injunction ang 
a civil penalty for unauthorized use after receipt of the notice to cease 


For Info and Ad Rates 
Call... 


Mark Deitch & Assoc., Inc. 
(818) 558-1010 






combating gangs one of his top priorities. 
also pioneered the use of state public 
nuisance laws to carry out gang abate- 
ments against such notorious criminal 
street gangs as the 1 8th Street Gang, Cul- 
ver City Boys, Langdon Street Gang, 
Mara Salvatrucha Gang, Harpys Gang 
and Blythe Street Gang. 

Hahn also re-established a Domestic 
Violence Unit in his office and fought for 
funding to make it the Jargest such unit in 
the nation with a no-drop policy on 
prosecuting batterers. In addition, he has 
led a legislative effort which has resulted 

in California now having the toughest 
domestic violence laws in the nation. 


Slum housing prosecutions by Hahn’s. 


i 


Housing Enforcement Unit—which’¢o= 

ordinates the Slum Housing Task 
Force—have resulted in 20,000 sub- 
standard dwelling units being returned to 
the city’s housing stock; defendants be- 
ing required to pay a total of $6.9 million 
in fines, costs and charitable donations; 
and about 150 convicted slumlords being 
sent to jail or forced to live under house 
arrest in their own buildings. 

The Housing Enforcement Unit is a 
part of Hahn’s Special Operations 
Branch which also contains the Con- 
sumer Protection Unit, Environmental 
Protection Unit, the nation’s first 
AIDS/HIV Discrimination Unit which 
Hahn created in 1986, and the Special 
Enforcement Unit, which handles an 
array of complex, cutting-edge crimi- 
nal cases, including child abuse and 
molestation, workplace safety, worker 
exploitation, and obscenity cases, as 
well as cases involving criminal con- 
duct on the Internet. 

Hahn also was instrumental in creating 
the FALCON Narcotics Abatement Unit. 
a task force which combats neighbor- 
hood blight caused by drug trafficking 
and related criminal activity. He also 
teamed up with other city officials to 
create the Citywide Nuisance Abatement 
Program (CNAP), another task force— 
the first of its kind in the nation—which 
is charged with targeting the worst aban- 
doned structures and nuisance properties 
plaguing Los Angeles neighborhoods. 
During its first year of operation in 1997- 
98, CNAP targeted 530 problem loca- 
tions around the city and carried out 380 
successful abatements. 






























Letters to the Editor is a regular feature of The Thin Blue Line. Letters may be limited to 350 words or less. 
Deadline for submission is the 6th of the month for the following month’s issue date. 


Dear Editor: 
Child Psychology 


Out of the mouths of babes..." 


fing ss as a police officer we 
air eae ves faced with incidents that 
ee any and all emotions. For the 
=e percentage of officers we find nu- 
ht ways and techniques to cope 
the non-stop psychological and 
Physical attacks on our bodies. The sta- 
tistics are readily available when one 
discusses the aspects of the job on offi- 
ers (alcohol, mental breakdown and 
suicide), 

Out of the mouths of babes..." 

In November of 1998 I became in- 
volved in an off duty incident that 
caused an outside agency to respond. 
This incident appeared to be just a sim- 
ple traffic incident... so] thought. 

In January of this year I received a 
letter from the San Bernardino County 
D.A.’s office. The letter advised me 
that I had been filed on for brandishing 
a firearm. Before I could digest that 
information, a week later I found my- 
self rushed to the hospital and undergo- 
ing emergency surgery. Only later to be 
told that I was just minutes from visit- 
ing the "grim reaper." 

After ten days in the hospital and 55 
pounds lighter, I found that I was un- 
able to fight my way out of a wet paper 
bag. I was very depressed and needed 
the aid of my wife just to get in and out 

ofacar. This was a point of dependency 
that I had never required and was hav- 


Ang major problems accepting. How- 


ever, my five-year-old son was not sure 
why his dad could not play with him 
and looked like a broke down Yugo. 
Often my son would bring me some- 
thing to drink, help with my shoes and 
ask if I was okay, and most of all he 
would say "I love you." 

As I was recovering from my sur- 
gery, I received a letter from the Chief 
of Police stating that my promotion to 
sergeant was placed on hold. Upon re- 
turning to work I was removed from 
my primary duties and found myself 
shuffling papers from one side of the 
desk to the other. I was interviewed on 
the personnel complaint and found 
myself in a jury trial on the brandish- 
ing, which was dismissed ($5,000 
later). I also found myself taking the 
last sergeant exam and [ stubbed my 
toe. Now I understand how Caesar felt 
at that luncheon. 

With my stress levels riding on high 
for more than seven months, the only 
psychological stabilizer I had was my 
son telling me how much he loved me. 
I found it wonderful when we held 
hands as we walked down the street or 
to the store. I got great joy in listening 
to my son telling me about his day. It 
had become clear that my son con- 
tained my sanity. "Out of the mouths 
of babes." 


Jeffrey Wilson, #24837 
Training Division 


Dear Editor: 

On August 20, 1999, P.O. III Paul 
Cardinet, #27845, lost his courageous 
fight with cancer. Paul was a fun-lov- 
ing, dedicated man who was loyal to 
every member of this Department, serv- 
ing over nine years to the city of Los 
Angeles, . 

As a small token to Paul’s dedica- 
tion to us all, a citywide "End of 
Watch" broadcast was made in his 


honor on the day of his passing. I was 
dismayed and to say the least very dis- 
appointed that some members of this 
Department called and complained 
about the broadcast and the fact that it 
was made citywide. 

The few people who voiced their ob- 
jection have obviously lost sight of 
something I have valued for 25 years, 
and instead have only a very narrow 
perspective of their own arrogant self 
worth. Yes, many unfortunately did not 
personally know this man; however, the 
fact that he was a Los Angeles Police 
Officer should be enough. We have 
truly become self-focused and self-ab- 
sorbed in our own importance. Our lit- 
tle clubs and separate organizations 
have fractionalized us to the point that 
we cannot even hold sacred the passing 
of our own, unless it personally affects 
us and/or our little groups. This should 
be an embarrassment to those people 
who would object to such a small token 
of appreciation, but I know that they 
somehow already rationalized their in- 
credible shortsightedness. 

I am available to anyone who has 
another perspective on this matter. You 
can leave me a message at 818-623- 
4016 or contact me by LAN at 21126, 
or by E-mail at GAVinger@aol.com. I 
welcome your point of view. 


Sincerely, 
Greg A. Vinger 
Dear Board of Directors: 
In December of 1998 my father-in- 


law passed away. In his will he named 
my wife as executrix. With the many | 


laws and procedures involving wills 
and probate my wife knew she would 
need the services of an attorney. A fel- 
low officer advised me that the Protec- 
tive League would assist her in this 
matter. I contacted the League office 
and explained the situation and within 
an hour I was called back and given the 
name of a probate attorney. I was also 
told that we would have a free counsel- 
ing session. 

The attorney we were referred to was 
a Mr. A. Martin Lybrand. Upon calling 
Mr. Lybrand’s office, an appointment 
was made for the following day. From 
the beginning, my wife and I could both 
see that Mr. Lybrand was professional 
and very knowledgeable. 7 

Probate usually takes twelve to eight- 
een months on the average, sometimes 
much longer if not handled properly. 
Through his hard work and dedication 
Mr. Lybrand completed the process in 
seven months. During the course of the 
seven months, my wife had to meet 
with Mr. Lybrand on several occasions 
to sign court documents. Mr. Lybrand’s 
office is in downtown Los Angeles (50 
miles one way from our residence). Mr. 
Lybrand was kind enough to meet half 
way in the valley to save my wife the 
hundred-mile journey. — 

My wife and I would like to thank the 
Protective League for their quick re- 
sponse to our request for assistance, 
and to let the League know what an 
outstanding job Mr. Lybrand did. 


Sincerely, 

Walter B. Thornhill 

West Valley Area 

cc: Mr. A. Martin Lybrand 


Dear Editor: 

My name is Christopher Hill. lam 19 
years old. I am about to go into the 
National Guard to become a military 





policeman. I am also thinking of mak- 
ing law enforcement my lifelong career 
when I return to my community. 

The reason I am writing you is be- 
cause I was wondering if I could have 
a L.A. Police Officer is a pen-pal. You 
see I was coming home every day 
from school watching the courage and 
dedication of the Officers of the Los 
Angeles Police Department on televi- 
sion that made me want to get into law 
enforcement. 

I do not know if I will ever get the 
chance to be an officer with the Los 
Angeles Police Department because I 


NAME: Matthew Cunningham #4450 
RANK: Policeman 

ASSIGNED TO: University 

BORN: May 26, 1918 

APPT: April 7, 1947 

RETIRED: April 19, 1972 

DIED: July 14, 1999 


ey yee Fee 
NAME: Jack D. Rich #4751 
RANK: Policeman 
ASSIGNED TO: Newton 
BORN: July 13, 1922 


APPT; July 1, 1947 


RETIRED: July 16, 1966. 


DIED: July 19, 1999 
b= Be = tise 5 = .. 
NAME: Donald A. Ramsey #10385 
RANK: Investigator Il 
ASSIGNED TO: Central 
BORN: (No birthdate found) 
APPT: August 3, 1959 
RETIRED: June 8, 1983 
DIED: July 25, 1999 


We aX 
NAME: Robert O. Merritt #1344 
RANK: Sergeant 
ASSIGNED TO: West L.A. 
BORN: (No birthdate found) 
APPT: May, 1937 
RETIRED: July 9, 1958 
DIED: July 26, 1999 


Ko ON 


NAME: Kenneth T. Carpenter #4514 
RANK: Investigator Il 

ASSIGNED TO: Bunco Forgery 
BORN: January 15, 1916 

APPT: April 28, 1947 

RETIRED: December 3, 1968 

DIED: July 30, 1999 


KK 


NAME: William Jacquez #4463 
RANK: Policeman 

ASSIGNED TO: Hollenbeck 
BORN: June 25, 1920 

APPT: April 7, 1947 

RETIRED: August 12, 1967 
DIED: August 8, 1999 


Kk * 


NAME: Thomas G. Crenshaw #3385 
RANK: Investigator III 

ASSIGNED TO: 77th Street 

BORN: February 7, 1922 

APPT: November 18, 1945 
RETIRED: January 19, 1971 

DIED: August 9, 1999 


xk KRY 


live so far away. That is why I would 
like so much to have an LAPD officer 
as a pen-pal. I believe the Los Angeles 
Police Department is the best Depart- 
ment in the world. I would truly con- 
sider it a privilege to have one of your 
courageous officers as a pen-pal. 

Thank you for all your inspiration. 

Sincerely, 

Christopher Hill 

4201 Abbeydale Drive 

Charlotte, NC 28205-4607 





NAME: George Bell #4563 
RANK: Policeman 

ASSIGNED TO: Communications 
BORN: November 14, 1921 
APPT: June 16, 1947 

RETIRED: September 16, 1967 
DIED: August 10, 1999 


OIE IK 


NAME: Charles B. Yocum #6193 
RANK: Investigator | 

ASSIGNED TO: Narcotics 
BORN: April 16, 1917 


APPT: May 16, 1949 


—— 





RANK: Policeman 
ASSIGNED TO: P.I.C. 
BORN: October 16, 1919 
APPT: October 16, 1946 
RETIRED: September 29, 1970 
DIED: August 11, 1999 
kK KK * 
NAME: Paul A. Cardinet #27845 
RANK: Police Officer III 
ASSIGNED TO: North Hollywood 
BORN: November 16, 1956 
APPT: June 25, 1990 
ACTIVE 
DIED: August 20, 1999 
IK OG 
NAME: Richard E. David #3395 
RANK: Lieutenant 
ASSIGNED TO: Jail 
BORN: November 17, 1919 
APPT: November 5, 1945 
RETIRED: March 13, 1976 
DIED: August 21, 1999 
re Ie Us 
NAME: Carl E. Johnson #7924 
RANK: Sergeant II 
ASSIGNED TO: Newton 
BORN: August 20, 1936 
APPT: October 28, 1957 
RETIRED: September 30, 1995 
DIED: August 21, 1999 
STIG 
NAME: Roger P. Church #14700 
RANK: Police Officer III 
ASSIGNED TO: Harbor 
BORN: January 11, 1945 
APPT: December 1, 1968 
RETIRED: July 6, 1996 
DIED: August 28, 1999 


~ 


October 99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 13 












































For Your Information is a regular feature of The Thin BI 
Deadline for submission is the 6th of th 


ue Line. We encourage you to submit articles for publication. 
e month for the following month's issue date. 








The Heart of a Lion 


by Larry Poehls 





On August 20, 1999, P.O. III Paul 
Cardinet rested his head on his pillow 
for the final tme. Today he succumbed 
to the demon of diseases that takes 


thousands of vibrant people every 


year—cancer. Over the past couple of 


years | got to know Paul a bit better, as 
we watched football games in his apart- 
ment while he was fighting his battle, 


Or met in the station hallways on one of 


his frequent visits to North Hollywood. 
Paul’s life was centered around the Los 
Angeles Police Department. While 
home during his long battle, officers 
would stop by his apartment and visit 
with him. He always made sure that our 
radios were turned up so he could hear 
what was or wasn’t happening. You 
never had enough stories to tell him, as 


Ba *\ : 
Vest yy 
Ny ony a. e x] 2 









kl . 


Page 14/ The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


2 => 
. 
Mack 


he always wanted more. He may have 
been out of sight of many in the Depart- 
ment, but the Department was never oul 
of his sight. On August 11, 1998, he 
was married to Jakkie at a ceremony al 
the North Hollywood Police Station. 
He stood proud in his uniform, even 
though the unstoppable enemy already 
ravaged his body. In the end, he wanted 
to be remembered as a Los Angeles 
Police Officer, and laid to rest in the 
uniform that he loved so much. In the 
eyes and heart of Paul, this Department 
was the best in the world. The Depart- 
ment has lost its biggest fan and its most 
devoted son. The Department has lost 
part of its soul. 

In all of our contacts with Paul, not 
once did anyone ever hear him complain 
about his situation. To the contrary, he 
always maintained that he would win his 
battle and return to work to fight other 


“ bt § 


, - 
i « 
- a 


a 









Pee 
> 


— 
Za 
Bo 


Bo & 








= 


photo by Dennis P. Zine 


4 
—_-—oo ro 


wn 


_ 


Ba 5+ 
“PN 


photo by Dennis P. Zine 





battles. Several times over this period we 
rushed him to the hospital in what we 
thought was his final code-3 run in a 
police car. Every time he proved us 
wrong and returned to continue the fight. 
He refused to lie down and allow the 
demon to take him away. He fought 
fiercely and with more passion than 
thought humanly possible. Paul always 
portrayed a positive, upbeat attitude, and 
never allowed us to be anything else. Paul 


photo by Denn 5P Zine 


lived life every day and made sure thar 
those around him did the same. God myst 
have really wanted Paul badly to take him 
away from his earthly loved ones so soon, 
I know Paul is watching over us from up 
there, just as the King of Beasts looks 
over his pride. Paul has something that | 
hope to find some day. Paul has the heart 
of a lion. 





Tribute to Officer Paul Cardinet 


When Officer Paul Cardinet, 
#27845, passed away on Friday, Au- 
gust 20, 1999, at 1352 hours, my part- 
ner, Officer Isaac Martinez made an 
End of Watch broadcast announcing his 
passing. An addition to this, an em- 
ployee downtown wrote a very touch- 
ing 30-second EOW broadcast and it 
and shame | was advised that several 
people (I refrain from using the words 
“police officers" because obviously 
they're not) complained about the 
broadcast. One even stated, "Why did it 
have to be citywide? We didn’t even 
know the guy.” 

Let me tell you people a few things 
about Paul that you don’t know: 

1. Paul was 42 years old. 

2. Paul was married, leaving behind 
a broken-hearted widow, dad and 
brother. 


3. Paul battled a horrible disease for 
Over two years without complaint or 
self pity. 

4. Paul was a street cop whose only 
desire was to come back to join his 
brother and sister officers in the unre- 
lenting fight to maintain peace and 
safety in this city. 

3. Paul was hospitalized after win- 
ning the Police Star for bravery. 

6. Paul displayed all the qualities ex- 
pected of a Los Angeles Police Officer. 
He fought the battle with cancer with 
quiet courage and he kept the faith to 
the end. 

This is the only thing about Paul that 
you people need to know: 


Office, Academy, Jesse 
Branches will be closed 


The Los Angeles Police Federal Credit Union’s Main 


1999, in observance of Columbus Day. 


1. Paul was a Los Angeles Police 
Officer and therefore deserving of that 
citywide broadcast whether vou knew 
him personally or not. 

I and the undersigned officers «: 
saddened by this display of selfishne 
We were taught by the old timers wae 
came before us that we are a special 






breed, Willing | make UW Utumate 


rifice for our brothers and sisters. Ap- 
parently that tradition has gone the way 
of the dinosaur. Was there a reason you 
couldn’t give up 30 seconds of airtime 
to honor a fallen comrade? Speaking 
for myself and the rest of the dinosaurs 
at North Hollywood Area, we really 
pity you. 

Officers Gene Ferone, #22433; 
Larry Taylor, #21830; _ Isaac 
Martinez, #25978; Robert Rowed- 
der, #26915; Jake Fernandez, 
#26455; Chris Razo, #33276; Matt 
Jones, #34406; Tito Mariscal, 
#27227; Roy Guthrie, #26211; Mike 
Patriquin, #26502; Ron Foxhoven, 
#35157; Ivan Guillermo, #35060, 
Steve Rakoski, #35173; Tom Bron- 
ley, #21009; Bryan Pinto, #35170: 
Gretchen Schultz, #34564; Tracy 
Callis, #34621; Jose Alvarez, #34962. 
Jorge Juarez, #34870; Jonatnan 
Kirkpatrick, #33335; Shelley Gale, 
#24119; Norma Stang, #33434; Paul 
Scott, #31460; Robert Munoz, 
#33266; Scott Young, #30686; Carol 
Sawamura, #31322; Mike Jensen, 
#17648; Allen Kamai, #31336; Sr. 
PSR Joane Bryant. 


Brewer, and Manchester 
on Monday, October 11, 


More For Your Information on page 16 







































Purchasing or refinancing your home? 







Call The P.R.I.D.E.° Program 


PLANNING ¥* FISK REDUCTION * INSURANCE 
DEPENDABILITY * EQUITY PROTECTION 





F 


To thank you for your protection and service, 


The Richland Group has created the P.R.I.D.E.” 


NO COST 
National Home Loan Benefit Program:: 


The Program provides: 
* Competitive rates 
Compare our rates with ANYONE 


* No costs to the Borrower 
All direct costs paid by The Richland Group 





* If you die, on- or off-duty, your loan is paid in full 
The first 7 years’ premium is paid by The Richland Group 


ENDORSED BY THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF POLICE ASSOCIATIONS, AFL-CIO, 
. INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIRE FIGHTERS, AFL-CIO-CLC, 
y | - xwe SACRAMENTO Deputy SHERIFFS’ ASSOCIATION, THE =,SAN,FRANCISCO DEPUTY _ 
| SHERIFFS’ ASSOCIATION, THE LoS ANGELES POLICE HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 
THE OHIO TROOPERS COALITION, AND NUMEROUS OTHER =... a 
Law ENFORCEMENT ORGANIZATIONS | 


Join the hundreds of Southern California law enforcement officers 
who are already enjoying the benefits of the P.R.J.D.£.® Program 


Call Toll Free 1 (877) PRIDE-11 or (310) 207-0329 


and ask for your free 7-minute videotape 
or visit us on the Web at www.prideloan.com 


This program is only offered through The Richland Group 






at 


For 3 quicker response, fax this card to (310) 207-6681 

Q | would like to receive an application packet for the P.R.I.D.E.. Program 

OQ Iwould like a P.R.I.D.E.” Program representative to call me about a home loan 
The best time to contact me Is am/pm at | } 





ee ee oad 7° 


Name) le). = SS 


Street Address: 
City/State/Zip: 


Home Telephone: Public Safety Agency: 
You may also mail this form to the P.R.I.D.E.° Program, 2042 Armacost Avenue, Los Angeles, CA, 90025 
O 


— es cs Se wl 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 15 








————esrrsr" S 





FOR YOUR INFORMATION 


Perceptions of Crime and Policing 
in Los Angeles Neighborhoods 
Some Results from a USC Survey of Four LAPD Areas 


by Cheryl Maxson, 
Karen Hennigan, David Sloane 
& Molly Ranney, University 
of Southern California 





March, 1999 


This research was supported by grant 
#961JCX0069 from the National Institute 
of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, 
U.S. Department of Justice. Points of 
vie€W OF Opinions in this document are 
those of the authors, and do not necessar- 
ily represent the official position or poli- 
cies of the U.S. Dept. of Justice. 


The Survey 


In winter 1997-98, a survey was 
mailed to a random sample of house- 
holds in four (out of 18) LAPD Areas, 
Hollenbeck, Pacific, Southeast and 
West Valley. The people who answered 
the survey lived evenly throughout the 
Areas and were 
representative of 
the other people 
living’ there. 
Slightly fewer 
young adults, Lat- 
inos, and non- 
English speakers 
answered the sur- 
vey. Overall, 
1,405 people re- 
sponded to the 
survey (57% co- 
operation). This 
paper reports the 
survey results on 
residents’ fear of 
crime, contact 





West Valley 


Wl disorderly neighborhoods 





Specific Results 
From the Survey 


Fear of Crime 


Fear of crime affects people’s quality 
of life, and their perceptions of crime 
and safety. As expected, these areas 
differ dramatically in levels of fear of 
crime. While 70% of Southeast and 
62% of Hollenbeck were somewhat or 
very fearful, only 32% of the West 
Valley and 33% of Pacific responded 
that way. 


What Factors Are 
Associated With Fear? 


Aside from direct experiences of 
crime victimization and the rate of 
crime in these areas, what else does the 
survey suggest about who is fearful and 
why? In the neighborhoods surveyed, 
gender (women feel more vulnerable to 
crime than men); neighborhood "dis- 


Percent who are fearful in disorderly 
or orderly neighborhoods. 


75% 


54% 


45% 51% 
36% 
16% 22% 
° 


Pacific Hollenbeck Southeast 


[_] orderly neighborhoods 





with the police, 
opinions of the 
police, and perceptions of neighborhood 
problems and priorities for police re- 
sources. 


The LAPD Areas 


The four LAPD Areas surveyed were 
chosen because they were different. 
Each area presented different potential 
obstacles to effective surveys. Chal- 
lenges include reaching residents who 
have lower incomes (Southeast, 
Hollenbeck); who speak languages 
other than English (Hollenbeck, South- 
east, and Pacific); and who might be 
intimidated by high violent crime rates 
(Southeast, to a lesser extent Hollen- 
beck and Pacific). The LAPD Areas 
selected had different crime profiles: 
Southeast and Hollenbeck suffer more 
violent crimes, Pacific and Southeast 
more property crimes, Hollenbeck 
lower property crimes and West Valley 
lower violent crimes. 


order" (defined as places where people 
are hanging out on the streets, lots or 
buildings are abandoned, vandalism 
and graffiti are problems); and neigh- 
borhood social cohesion (levels of 
trust, good will, and shared values 
among neighbors) each were strongly 
related to fear. Across these areas, 46% 
to 77% of respondents who live in "dis- 
orderly" neighborhoods are fearful, 
compared to 16% to 54% of those who 
live in orderly neighborhoods. Further, 
within disorderly neighborhoods, fear 
was 24 percentage points lower among 
residents who reported living in places 
where residents trust and feel close to 
one another than those living in neigh- 
borhoods not described as cohesive. 


Contact With the Police 
Most respondents in the four areas 


reported police were doing an okay or 
a good job, were fair, trustworthy, help- 




















Page 16/The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


The Italian American 
Police Officers Association 


The Italian American Police Officers Association will have 
its next meeting on October 20, 1999, at Palermo’s 
Restaurant on 1858 North Vermont Avenue, near the 
intersection of Franklin and Vermont. The meeting is open 
to all those who like good food, good friends and good 
times. This is strictly a social organization with no political 
agendas or political affiliations. The meeting starts at 

1700 hours and will last through Dinner. 


For further Information contact: 
Fred Tredy - Hollywood at 485-4301; 
Joe Oliveri - Northeast at 485-2563; 

or Tony Lomedico - Rampart at 485-4061. a 





90% 


ful and concerned. Respondents 1n 
Southeast were most critical, those in 
West Valley most supportive. Respon- 
dents also thought the LAPD was doing 
a better job at protecting people and 
preventing crime than at working to- 
gether with the community. 

Overall, respondents from lower vio- 
lent crime neighborhoods tend to give 
police more favorable ratings than re- 
spondents living in places higher in vio- 
lent crime. Opinions of police are also 
affected by the media and by personal 
experiences with the police. Persons 
having only "traditional" contacts (re- 
lated to crimes or problems) report less 
favorable opinions than persons having 
"community" contacts with police (in- 
formal interactions with police on pa- 
trol or at meetings, events, OF other 
activities). 


Neighborhood 
Problems & Priorities 

Having residents identify neighbor- 
hood problems helps the police under- 
stand their needs more clearly. The 


° as 4 


Overall, how good a job are the police doing 
in your neighborhood this year? 









Good or very good [ ]Okay { Poor or very poor 


problems mentioned most frequently 
by respondents varied for each LAPD 
Area. Hollenbeck and Southeast were 
more likely to identify social problems 
such as gangs and drugs, while West 
Valley and Pacific respondents were 
more concerned about property and 
traffic crimes. However, the need for 
more police or more police visibility 
was among the five most frequently 
mentioned problems in each of the four 
LAPD Areas. 

Respondents were asked if more re- 
sources came to your police station, 
what would you like to see improved or 
given more attention: patrolling, re- 
sponding to 911, investigating crimes, 
working with community, or coordinat- 
ing with other city services? Three ar- 
eas responded that they wanted more 



















Police Sergeant | 


Police Lieutenant | 


Attention Off-Duty Officers 


If you are working an off-duty job you should know the salary schedule 
we publish for our members working movie job security for the Motion 
Picture and Television Industry. While this schedule applies to the media 
industry, you are encouraged to use it with your off-duty jobs. 

We should never permit our highly trained and dedicated members to work 
for peanut wages. The risks are too high and the Department is not very 
sympathetic when a 1.28 complaint is generated while you are working off duty. 


Los Angeles Police Department 


Off-Duty Salary Rates (Hourly) 
July 1, 1999 - June 30, 2000 


ee | sJuly1,1999 
Re i 
orem ss 
sans | 
[Policetieutenanti | RD 


Police Officer Il 
(Assigned to two-wheel motorcycle) 
(Assigned to two-wheel motorcycle) 


(Assigned to two-wheel motorcycle) 


7 


patrolling, while West Valley 
dents made responding to 91 | 
their first priority. Nearly half of § 


east respondents named “meeting wi, 


community” as their Ist, 2nd, o 
priority. 

Conclusions and 
Recommendations 


The survey was conducted |; 
four of the eighteen LAPD Area 


results do not represent the perceptip,. 
and attitudes of the entire city. The., 
preliminary conclusions and recom. 


mendations are offered. 


1. Annual surveys of Los Angeles 
communities should be undertaken P 
track changing perceptions of fear of 
crime, neighborhood disorder, police. 
community contact, opinions of police 
and public safety priorities. Results 
should be distributed among the LApp 
and communities to facilitate joint 
problem identification, goal setting 
and tracking progress toward goals. 
2. Community-police partnerships that 
are sensitive to the unique challenges 
and opportunities within each LAPD 
Area should be fos- 
tered to address local 
priorities effectively, 
because areas differ 
greatly in the chal- 
lenges they face. 











3. Community-police 
partnerships that iden- 
tify the reduction of 
fear of crime as a pri- 
ority should focus on 
community policing 
strategies that work to 
reduce disorder and 
promote social cohe- 
sion which may help 
defuse high levels of 
fear. 


Woe 





Southeast 


priority should promote o rtunitie 
for informal interactions between offi- 
cers and residents, so they will develop 

a more positive relationship with indi- 

vidual police officers, and improve 

perceptions of the entire department. 

5. With input from area community- 

police partnerships, LAPD manage- 

ment should continue to explore ways 
of increasing police visibility, which 
improves the public’s perception of the 

LAPD. 

Foracomplete report, please contact 
Dr. Cheryl Maxson, Social Science Re- 
search Institute, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles 90089-0375. 


+0 








et — —" wy =z _~ — | - 







Police Officers at Three Times 
the Normal Risk of Death 


ey. ae 

| Olice Officers 
4S like 
Amerj 


are nearly three times 
ly to die on the job as the average 


a vehicle accounted for 43 percent of all 
police officer fatalities. “Quick re- 


Br tt Sak 


Officers Need Donor Help 


To the men and women of The Los 
Angeles Police Department. Active 
Duty Personnel Retirees. 


Through your Blue Line newspaper, 
I am attempting a "clarion call,” re- 
spectfully to all of the men and women 


i “an worker a study issued by the 
We 2 of Labor Statistics (BLS) re- 
ae es rom 1992 to 1997, police offi- 
ee , led at a rate of 14.2 per 100,000 
100,058 This compares to 4.7 per 
fire f : employed for all workers. The 
* : ter death rate also exceeded that 
y po Ice officers during the same pe- 
Od. Fire fighters average 16.5 deaths 
Per 100,000 employed. 
| The highest occupational death rates 
are found among timber cutters, fisher- 


I am making this request, on behalf 
of "one of your own." Det. Guy 
Reneau, Homicide Division, Ana- 
heim Police Department. His late 
mother and my mother were the best 
of friends, knowing Guy from the be- 
ginning. They are still close, with Guy 
in essence a second son. I value him 
and his integrity with the greatest re- 
spect. Also in need is Anaheim Police 
Detective Judi Harmon, who is also 
fighting leukemia, and two children 


sponse often requires traveling at high 
rates of speed in police cruisers to get 
to the scene of the crime or emergency. 
Over half of the highway incidents in- 
volved collisions between two vehi- 
cles, mostly moving in opposite 
directions or through intersections. 
One-third of the highway incidents in- 
volved vehicles that ran off the road or 
overturned without colliding with an- 
other vehicle,” the report notes. 

The report entitled “Fatalities to Law 





in blue, active and inactive to please 
volunteer and give a blood sample. This 
can be done through your local Red 
Cross, National Bone Marrow Regis- 
try; City of Hope in Duarte, (626) 359- 
8111, ext. 8386; Anaheim Police Dept., 
Marilyn Whittingham, (714) 765-1530; 

Anaheim P.D., (714) 765-1900. On the 

6:00 "news" when the tragedy of one of 
your own is killed, always we see im- 

ages of rank and file from all over the 
state converge. Let’s see if we can get 





in terms of 
men Pai A ; some of the same for them in 
0 ek ie and aircraft pilots. Un- ee Officers and Firefighters, | of other Anaheim police officers who Aboore 
L Ree ice oe and fire fighters, (Soothes tae te ee are battling cancer. I do not know Det. Thank you for any assistance that 
er, these occu ations magazine om- ome : . 
( are not 
4 broadly dispersed ie societ pensation and Working Conditions. ORE DISEIS, poweverya regicst \ymaygte LOT Cony Hoi UNE DH. 
Bistros eres Y- The publication is also available on the | £07 blood samples from which analy- My special thanks to your Protective 
mt ingly. thane ay SUTPIIS- Internet at www.bls.gov/opub/ | Sis would determine to find if bone League for allowing me this forum. 
: Breas aie eee sie niede cwe/cwchome htm. marrow would match up for both. 
| e ; Ss Wi im. j ; oe 
A deaths but transportation incidents such Reprinted from Police Labor Monthly, Sey S wate. soi, U5 8 P atic! ofticer With appreciation and respect, 
| hi Aueust 1999 with Anaheim P.D. She is facing back ‘ar - A Friend 
as highway crashes or being struck b S S EON a “eo 
y “* | surgery. They have one young son. M 
ni 
ft 
° oO 
J Police Officer John L. Casey 
B ° ° e 
‘ Stricken with Leukemia Needs 
Ek 
) Bone Marrow Transplant 
A Orangetown, NY. -- P.O. John L. for 4-6 months incurring an additional 
L Casey was diagnosed withChronic My- expense, while maintaining his home 
N logenous Leukemia (CML) in February and expenses here. 
(; of 1999. This is a cancer that affects the John is married with 3 yoOune chil- 
I white blood cells and the bone marrow ren. He has been a police officer for 
N in your body, weakening your immune 18 years, serving with the Village of 
( system. He has been treated with a type AVaGKs ENG! CHCA Cate ie Bown as 
f ch Ny eT ee Orangetown. He was President of the 
I PERE ES eo lC AON S DCC Nyack P*B/ A") Past President of: the 
( his diagnosis. The only true cure is a RaclliandEG cunt PAB eAGnOOASOOdF 
Ss bone marrow transplant. John had his His father John is retired from NYPD. 
entire family tested as potential donors, 42Pct. His brother Tom isa Lt. in Bronx 
_ but no one was a match. This means’ Narcotics. His Uncle Tom Casey is r 
=| 










"life After LAPD." 





rivers for boater safety. 





cers wins a League logo package. 





Desert Refuge For Peace Officers 
by Chaplain Michael McCullough 





s a goal I set in 1986. We now have 





A house of prayer and spirituality wa ; 
a cabin on a a in Joshua Tree, Calif., about 30 bid pda ee 
Springs. Over the past five years, numerous officers ae ; tee ae 
have Bone to the Desert Refuge to help me raise chan in sae 2 Boer 
the cabin, lay PVC and plant nearly 30 trees. It has also se P 


needs for many officers. 
The Desert Refuge for Peace Officers 


as a non-profit organization. Our lawyer has drafted the Articles of Incor- 


poration and is now in the process of filing them with the state of California. 


Mission Statement 
The Desert Refuge for Peace Officers 1s a pt eee ea 
personal and other-centered spiritual pyle ae a ee ne ; 
The Refuge is to be a place of hospitality, soln a greene 
law enforcement personnel and their families. The Ketug 
to all races, cultures and creeds in the 
Ecumenical approac 
of the Catholic Church. 
Inquiries about the 
Desert Refuge may 
be directed to me at 
(323) 298-7174. 


Sincerely yours, 
Chaplain Michael y 
McCullough A 









will very shortly be incorporated 



































Three retired officers are now working for a 
Northwest state as Marine Deputies, patrolling the lakes and 


Name the officers. First caller correctly identifying the three offi- 


John must now search for an unrelated 
donor through the National Bone Mar- — 
row Donor Program. On a recommen- 
dation of his doctor and after visiting 
several transplant centers, John is going 
to have the procedure done in the Fred 
Hutch Cancer Research Center in Seat- 
tle, Washington, the number one trans- 
plant center in the world for unrelated 
donor transplants. 

The procedure will involve getting an 
unrelated donor for the bone marrow. 
The search for this donor is now under- 
way. John’s procedure, hospital stay, 
doctors costs and donors expenses are 
expected to be in excess of 
$350,000.00. After many hours on the 
phone with the insurance carrier, he has 
learned the insurance carrier will not 
pay for the majority of these expenses. 
That means most of the expenses must 
be paid for by John and his family. John 
must also set up a residence in Seattle 








Plaza (10 Frwy. at 


CHP Officer Noreen Vargas 
Memorial Ride 


October 10 


Registration starts at 10:00am at Chevy’s Fresh 
Mex Restaurant in the West Covina. Fashion 


There is the ride to Tom's Farm, live band, 
___. bike contests and food: 


tired from Port, Authority P.D. Newark 
Airport. His cousin, Jim Casey, is a 
P.O. with Weehawken N.J.P.D. He also 
has many cousins inthe NYPD. _ 

A non-profit corporation has been 
established to help raise the funds 
needed to save John’s life. Contribu- 
tions may be made out to “The Friends 
of John Casey,” and sent to the follow- 
ing address: 


The Friends of John Casey 


500 Bradley Hill Road 
Blauvelt, New York 10913. 


For more information about John’s 
condition or to inquire about donating, 
call one of the following committee 
members: 

e Joe Clark, 18° V.P.R.C.P.B.A. at 

914-727-3960 
e Brent Newbury, Orangetown 

P.B.A. President at 914-359-3700 
e Lt. Tom Casey, NYPD Bronx Nar- 

cotics at 718-543-6854 


>, 


Vincent Ave. off). 


More For Your Information on next page 


eee ee 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 17 











Bup Bup... Bup Bup... Bup Bup 


One Perspective 
by Officer Binnie M. Phan 





"Clear," I said. 


“Clear in this room also," Jonini re- 
plied. 

Then we both aimed towards the back 
door, not knowing the exterior layout of 
the location. The children in the living 
room watched us, bewildered but yet 
questioning. The caretakers continued 
to teach the class to lure the children 
away from watching us. 

“Okay, kids. Who wants to play 
clay?" asked one of the caretakers. 

From my peripheral vision, I could 
see the kids raising their hands excit- 
edly, wanting and longing to touch the 
clay. As I walked past the living room, 
I could smell the fear and shock the 
Caretakers all wore on their faces. It was 
SO intense and overpowering that a 
bloodhound could smell through their 
frightened faces. (bup bup bup ... bup 
bup bup) 

The windows were all shut and 
locked, covered by the closed blinds. 
All the doors in the room were locked, 
especially the back door. The children 
continued to play, totally oblivious to 
the surroundings. One little girl started 
to cry, sensing fear and confusion. 

"One, two, THREE!" I counted as I 
pulled the back door open. (bup bup 
bup bup bup bup bup) Jonini walked out 
first with the shotgun in his hands, 
readying for target. I walked immedi- 
ately right behind him covering his 
right side. We both saw a red barn 
ahead of us which had not been cleared 
yet. I think for about ten seconds, my 
soul completely frozen, I felt like a cat 
running across the street trying to beat 
the speedy car racing down the street at 
60 mph. Then all of a sudden I hear the 
screechy brakes. I turn and look, giving 
the driver the "wish of death" eye con- 
tact. The world suddenly stops, and 
everything seems to be in slow motion. 
It’s the same "wish of death" feeling I 
felt when I walked around the corner, 
expecting to be confronted by the gun- 
man. (bupbupbupbupbupbupbupbup) 
Luckily, there was neither a gunman 
nor a dead body. Then my partner came 
to our assistance and helped us search 
the rest of the barn. "Huuuuh," I sighed. 
(bup bup . . . bup bup) 

"Gosh, I can’t finish this. I just don’t 
feel all that hungry this morning," I said 
to my partner, Herrera, as I continued 
to stuff my mouth with egg-a-la-bagel. 
Herrera just sat there and ate his bagel 
with the newspaper laying on the table 
at Western Bagel. Today was my first 
time working with Herrera on a foot- 
beat detail. (bup bup . . . bup bup) 

"17A45 handle the shots fired at 
16600 Rinaldi, man with a shotgun at 
the Jewish Community Center,” said 
the RTO. "17A45, respond C-3. Multi- 
ple victims down,” continued the RTO. 

"Hey, that’s just right around the cor- 
ner, said Herrera. 

"Let’s go!" shouted. "17FB96, show 
us backing 45." I yelled to the RTO, as 
we both raced to the car, not allowing 
our stomachs to digest the food. (bup 
bup bup . . . bup bup bup) 

The RTO then continued, "17A45, 
unknown suspect armed with possibly 
an Uzi. Numerous victims down." 

Short pause. "17A45, suspect is a 
male Asian, NED, possibly still inside 
location," described the RTO. 
"17FB96, C-6 Rinaldi," I reported. (bup 
bup bup. . . bup bup bup) 

Herrera parked the car just east of the 
wall which divided the Jewish Commu- 
nity Center from the building to its east. 


Page 18/ The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


We both walked quickly across the 
parking spaces to the main building, 
where I saw Sgt. Surette’s vehicle 
parked just south of the driveway to the 
main building. 

"Oh my god, oh my god!" cried a 
woman, as she ran hastily towards me. 
Another woman followed right behind 
her along with several young counselors. 

"Ma’am, where is the gunman, and 
what did he look like?" I asked calmly. 

"I don’t know, but... but... but I 
saw him walking up to the second 
building," she replied panickingly. 

"Ma’am, calm down. I want every- 
body to get behind this wall, NOW!" I 
shouted over the hysteria. 

"Now, I want you to calm down and 
do what I tell you!" I commanded. 

Then about two more people came 
racing down the hill, all hysterical and 
frightened to death. 

"Officer, somebody’s been shot up in 
the second building,” a young coun- 
selor reported shakily. 

"Okay, I want YOU to take everyone 
across the street and find a safe place. 
Make sure everyone stays together. Go, 
NOW!" I hollered. 

With just little information on the 
suspect, I was caught in confusion my- 
self. I didn’t know how many suspects 
we had or who we were searching for. 
But I certainly knew that we were look- 
ing for a male suspect with a high-pow- 
ered weapon. So they all ran across the 
street, where I felt at that moment was 
a safer place to stay than the crime 
scene. More officers arrived at the 
southeast area of the main building, 
where I was. Then I saw my partner 
evacuating people across the street. 
Then we stayed behind the southeast 
wall of the main building for coverage, 
just right below the second building, or 
the red building. Sgts. Savala and An- 
tenucci came and gave directions. I told 
Sgt. Savala that a victim was shot up in 
the second building. So we needed to 
make entry immediately. We had to 
wait for the other units to clear the main 
building because we had to pass by the 
main building in order to advance our 
way up to the red building. Once that 
was completed, about eight officers in- 
cluding the two sergeants started to 
form an entry team. Still, at this time, 
we had no clear information on the sus- 
pect. There were two descriptions, with 
one white male and the other male 
Asian. We could be looking for one 
gunman or multiple shooters. So we 
advanced up the hill and redeployed 
ourselves. Four officers including my- 
self moved forward across the northeast 
side of the chain-linked fence tactfully, 
using the vehicles that were parked in 
the area as shields. The air unit had 
already cleared the playground area 
where we were lined up along the fence. 
It’s been about 15-20 minutes since my 
partner and I first arrived at this scene. 

As the four of us lined up behind each 
other, with my partner right behind me 
and the shotgun officers in front of me, 
I was getting very impatient of waiting. 
I motioned to my sergeant across the 
way that perhaps we could climb over 
the fence and get a better view of the 
location. At the same time, I was an- 
noyed by the media helicopters, hover- 
ing around and causing such loud 
commotion that I couldn’t hear any- 
thing from the radio. Then Sgt. Savala 
finally signaled us to enter. By now, our 
adrenaline rush was extremely high. 
There was no space for fear. It was too 
late to back out (bupbupbupbupbup) 
Jonini entered first with the shotgun. I 
trailed behind him followed by Herrera 


To Whom It May Concern: 


lam a Police Officer with this De- 
partment and have been for several 
years. I have met a lot of “hard- 
charging” good officers who come to 
work and do what they got to do 
every day. I have worked with them 
and respect them for all the knowl- 
edge they give me as a young officer. 
They don’t ask for commendations 
or “pats on the back,” but I believe 
some incidents should be recognized 
by the Department. This incident I 
believe ranks among those “Com- 


mendable Copper Capers.” 


There was a call of a “Suicide At- 
tempt” of a young woman threaten- 
ing to jump off a cliff at Pt. Fermin 
Park. Officers responded and 


checked all over the area for the 
young lady. Officers Victor Pappas, 
Patrick Kalscheuer, James Shray 
and Jason Pedro discovered her at a 
cliff at Pt. Fermin Park. Without 
hesitation, Officer Kalscheuer im- 
mediately started contacting the nec- 
essary resources while Officer 
Pappas, Shray and Pedro approached 
the teenage girl, attempting to talk 
with her. Officers Shray and Pappas 
continued to talk with the teenage 
girl while Pedro formulated a last 


and a female officer, Saindon, along 
with Sgt. Antenucci. I pulled the black 
gate open that led us to a hilltop stair- 
way and right to the front door. We all 
stood behind the wall adjacent to the 
front door. Then a woman opened the 
door, and we reacted by entering. Jonini 

led the way. When I walked right be- 

hind him, I saw a young boy lying on 

the floor with two bright red spots near 

the leg area and close to the lower ab- 

domen. There were two white sheets 
that covered the bleeding spots. The 
young boy looked right into my eyes, 
wondering what was happening. He 
wasn’t scared or terrified, nor was he 
crying. He just laid there and watched 
us in full shock. For a second, I looked 
back at him to reassure him that every- 
thing will be all right. He somehow 
knew that something bad had occurred. 
He had every piece of the puzzle, but 
didn’t know how to fit them together. 

After our eye contact, Jonini and I 
searched the two small rooms in the 
back. Then we passed by the children 
and the caretakers in the living room 
down the hallway leading to the rear 
door. Then we checked outside and 
cleared the playground area. 

When I returned back to the red 
building where the children were, the 
paramedics already tended the little 
boy. Herrera questioned the witnesses 
for further description of the suspect. My 
partner and I asked her several times for 
confirmation of the gunman’s descrip- 
tion and ethnicity. Because during this 
whole time, officers did not know if the 
gunman was white or Asian. So, I asked 
her meticulously, "Ma’am, I’m gonna 
ask you again. Are. you sure that the 
shooter was not Asian?" 

She replied positively, "Yes, officer, 
I’m very sure that he is not Asian. He’s 
a white male with almost a bald head." 

Herrera broadcasted the description 
of the suspect on the radio from the 
other units who were at the scene. The 
rescue ambulance took the little boy 
and airlifted him to the hospital along 
with the main caretaker. Then my part- 
ner and I continued to question other 


minute plan with his partnes 

going to grab the girl. The gi 

toward the edge of the clif! 

talked with the officers. She 
officers she had nothing to | 

and she was going to jump. Off 

Pedro ran up behind the gi; 

grabbed her from the edge, ris} 
his life to pull her from th 
Officers Shray and Pappas hel, 
bring the girl from the edge of ¢} 
cliff. 

I asked Officer Pedro and Shray ;; 
they had received a commendatio; 
or anything from the event. But by 
officers stated nothing was done | 
couldn’t believe what I heard. These 
2 officers are some of the hardes 
working officers in Harbor Division 
They are well respected by their 
peers and supervisors. They told me 
they don’t mind that nothing was 
done, but I believe such an incident 
deserves at least a commendation or 
some type of recognition. 

Thank you for taking the time t 
read this letter, but I like to remain 
anonymous because I don’t deserve 
the praise as much as these officers do 


A Fellow Brother Officer 


witnesses for more information on the 

shooter. Then we finally found a place 

to safely place the children under our 
custody and away from the crime scene 
Then I walked over to the classroon; 
area and told the children that we w 
going on a field trip. The children é 
cheered and got excited because they 
knew that police officers were going 

with them. 

"Okay, kids, I want all of you to hold 
each other’s hands like this and follow 
the police officers out the door, okay?” 
I said, and demonstrated. 

"I want one single line. And the 
teachers can join us too," I repeated. 

The caretakers were hurrying the 
kids to hold hands and to form a line. | 
saw the tiredness in their exhausted 
faces and emotions, both overly over- 
whelmed. Then we marched the chil- 
dren down the hill and across the street. 
At the bottom of the hill, one parent, 
who was dressed in a black outfit, saw 
her child and rushed over to us. She 
grabbed her child and cried continu- 
ously. She almost fell to her knees be- 
cause she was so emotionally relieved 
that her child was safe and was not one 
of the wounded victims. I pulled her 
along with her child with us and walked 
them to a nearby residential house. 
Then the officers found a better loca- 
tion that was right across the street in 4 
church. We escorted the children to the 
church, where the pastor served the 
children apple juice. The firefighters 

brought out animal crackers and dis- 
tributed them to the kids. We asked 
each child for his or her name and gave 
the name list for the officers waiting 
impatiently outside who were with the 
frantic parents. The pastor also brought 
out a box, full of toys which sudden!) 
caught ALL of the children’s attention 
away from the hunger, fatigue, and the 
long wait each endured. I stood there 
and watched the kids play inside the 
church innocently, while the gunman 





continued on page 20 












\ LOS ANGELES 
{POLICE 


FEDERAL CREDIT UNION gy Gapsnet Inc. PPoullly Presents... . 











‘sport utility vehicles for very important people! 
ee  , 


GIANT SPORT UTILITY TRUCK 
ui IMINI-VAN SALE EVENT! 



















SW 
*' ~ “ SOY 
SOAS. 


A SS 
. 
RSS FES 





RSQQqugy 
SSS, 


SS 
AX 
“! 

















a nn a 


+* 
. 
a aces Sa, 
\ 
SATS 
~ SS 
IS ~ 
SS : 
SSNS ~ 
F = 
» on 
; > 
ST _ 
~ . = 
>» . ~ Ss = 
oN nt ’ ~ 
$ > SN SS ¢ > 
NS Se < 
~ 
; ~ 
< 
3 4 SSN S : : 
. > SS : ~ 
S 3 = SS ; 
SANSA ESSAY WA 


SAT. & SUN., OCT. 23RD & OCT. 24TH, 1999 
Saturday 9am-5pm ¢ Sunday 10am-5pm 


Exclusive Location: 


POLIGE AGADENIY 


A880 NORTH ACADEMY DR., LOS ANGELES, CA ......... 


1 OAN OFFICERS ON SITE .. TRADE-INS WELCOME 
TEST DRIVE ANY VEHICLE .. PRICES STARTING AS 
LOW AS S499 


early 150 Pre-Owned Vehicles on sale 
at One Convenient Location 






SSS 
* 




































All vehicles 








iy clearly marked 
ially priced S, with credit union 
e a wide selection of specia : 

ear ane trucks to mini-vans, imports & domestics, for ee 


= ee is SSS 





—— PRICES 
work or play! 





UP TO 


SS 
LED . . > 
ae . 
- ~ ~ IRR 
~~ 
See < ~, s 
{ ~ oe . ee 
x _ = . w% 
? ot . Nees Ny 
P = i $252 = a Sn OO RR 
- Ben. a A (a . a 
5 < an oe = se Se 
o Soe x 
s SOO Ser 
SJ > Nese ~~ PP, ~ 
- b aN * 
4 : 


WIND Nelly (Cue ‘ea RARE: 2a7\ FINANCING 
WWI NN Haley hi ee NS er Bs On Approved 
Ries! oS see Credit 


You Might Win & be BER 16TH OR 17TH 

SALE ON OCTO ae ; f 
aa STE eee vere ON THE BACK OF THIS LETTER! Take the 5 Freeway. Exit Stadium Way and follow the signs. 
S 


B OVED! CALL OUR 24 HOUR LENDING CENTER AT 800-950-9794 
aa PrrOR SALE INFORMATION, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-601-CARS (2277) 


6.99% fixed rate available on the days of the sale only. All loans subject to credit evaluation & approval. No other 
‘APR = Annual percentage rate. - discounts apply. Automatic transfer or payroll deduction available. 
















October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 19 











Veteran's Corner isa regular feature of The Thin Blue Line. We enco 
eadline for submission is the 6th of the month for th 


D 


urage you to submit articles for publication 
e following month's issue date. 





mh. 4 if 


sng Ptr = a ( ; 
eee Seria Maoh yee a C dip gees st 
ey = COE oe ees ree 
" Sar (el ek St Cy” ae! 

ic 1 ins he ; 
g 7 ese e ag . a 
a cee {= ree | - & a 
Spee HS ard ee . $e 
ite aaa es Lr a Se Side 

oF: ht ae : 


“ee 
A 


a Post #817 a 
cal 13553 Reedley Avenue 
Panorama City, CA 91402 
(818) 781-2261 
Adjutant Frank Ortiz 
160 N. Glendora Avenue 
Covina, CA 91724 
Reve Hm: (626) 331-4271 








August Meeting 


On July 17, 1999, the Los Angeles 
Police Post #381 had their monthly 
meeting at the Panorama City Post. 
This was the annual "Law and Order" 
meeting. 


Welcome Recruit Classes 
#8A-99 and 8B-99 


On August 2, 1999, and August 30, 
1999, Marty Chalupa and J. J. 
Leonard welcomed the new police re- 
cruit classes. There were 19 with mili- 
tary service. They all joined Police Post 









: 7 
www.eyesight.com 


Se Doacat 


Douglas Engh, MD 
Valley and is consi 
California. Just listen to what 


LASIK procedure: 


“Tf you have an active lifestyle, 
now enjoy outdoor activities so muc 





CALL FOR A FREE CONSULTATION 


Weide Me 18 INOS 


MEDICAL DIRECTOR 


Page 20/ The Thin Blue Line / October ’99 


What Are You 
Waiting For? 


permanently improved by 


was the first to bring Refractive Surgery to the Santa Clarita 
dered one of the premier LASIK surgeons in Southern 
one of his patients has to say after having the 


I would recommend having the LASIK procedure. I 
h more without my glasses.” 


Mobs Nolo eat Nea SE 
EYE INSTITUTE 


95775 McBean Parkway, Ste. 208 
Valencia, CA 91355 


(661) 253-5000 
DOUGLAS MARSHALL ENGH, M.D. 


BOARD CERTIFIED OPHTHALMOLOGIST 
FELLOW AMERICAN COLLEGE OF SURGEONS 


#381. Congratulations and welcome to 
all the new members. Class 8A-99: Tri- 
cia Criswell (USAF), Mare Gonzales 
(USA), Carlos Martin (Nat Guard), 
Edward Ormes (USA), Rene Santos 
(USMC), Bryce Verna (USAF). Class 
8B-99: Rennick Brown (USA), 
Stephen Carr (USA), Charles Cha- 
con (USA), Christopher Chavez 
(USMC), Jon Daymen (USN), Peter 
Der (USN), David Dickerson 
(USMC), Kenneth Drucker (USAF), 
Jesse Lopez (USMC), Jesse Murphy 
(USMC), Mario Ramirez, Jr. (USA), 
Richard Ramos (USMC), Roberto 
Rodriguez (USA). 


1999 National Convention 


The national convention was held 
this year in Anaheim, over Labor Day 
weekend. Representatives from every 
state in the union were in attendance. It 
was very impressive to see all of the 
state flags and post banners displayed 
in the massive Convention Center. The 
required business activities were com- 
pleted. Many Legionnaires took advan- 
tage of the convention to say "hello" to 
friends that they only see once a year. 


The Parade 


Quote: "The Parade is really some- 
thing that brings out families and the 
community together. Children, moth- 
ers, fathers, the police, firemen are all 


Over one million people 
have already had 
their vision 


LASIK 


















_ Jeffery Nordella, M.D., Valencia, CA 


LABER VIBION CORRECTION DY 


AA. os 
ViSx 


eax 





out for this. You can really see the im- 
portance of having the parade,” Na- 
tional Chaplain Henry Eisenhart. 

Minnesota Legionnaires decided to 

start the parade early Sunday. The band 
from 9th District, in Northwest Minne- 
sota played an impromptu concert in 
the lobby of the Hilton, before heading 
over to the assembly area. They kept the 
guests clapping and toe-tapping with a 
Dixieland jazz rendition of "This Land 
is Your Land.” The group was formed 
in 1929 by 89-year-old Herschel 
Lysaker, who hasn't missed a single 
convention since. The 55 band mem- 
bers have moved to all parts of the 
United States, yet they come together 
every year for Convention. My home 
state is Minnesota, and I can still speak 
the language (don’cha know). 

The parade was led by the Los Ange- 
les Motorcycle Drill Team. If you have 
never seen this group, do yourself a 
favor and catch them in their next per- 
formance. Their precision is just amaz- 
ing. There were 103 units in the parade, 
including the U.S.Army 40th Infantry 
Division Marching Band, five Legion 
bands, and five high school bands. 
There was a replica of a battleship, 
made of Legos (is that what they mean 
by downsizing the military?). Every 
state in the country was represented, 
including Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, 
and the Philippines. The state that had 
the largest representation was Ohio. 
Texas had the most cowboy hats (of 
course), Wyoming had the second 
most. Colorado had the most cowboy 


boots (go figure). The state 

flags was Wisconsin. They car; 

60 full-size flags. What an in 

sight it was. The Oklahoma contin... 
wore Native American headgear y; 
lowa waltzed by carrying corn «aj, 
As in most cases the volunteers » 
named, however, they did a tremendoy. 
job of putting together this three hae 
event. We are now looking forwarg 0 
the next national convention, jp Mit 
waukee, Wisconsin, in August, 2099 


Can’t Find 
Military Reunions? 

There is a group called "Nationaj 
VETS Archives.” This is a private ver. 
erans program that provides veterans 
and their families with information 
about outfit reunions. VETS maintains 
records of over 12,000 groups that are 
planning reunions, or have a designated 
contact person for information about 
that outfit. The service is free and can 
be found at www.vets.org/. 


| 
LK 


Upcoming Meeting 

The next monthly meeting will be on 
October 19, at 6:30 p.m. at the Panorama 
Post #817, located at 13553 Reedley 
Street, Panorama City. For information 
on the meeting, please call Adjutant 
Frank Ortiz at (626) 331-4271. 


Notifications | 
If you have any questions Or 


Pa 


ments, please contact Marty Chalup@a 
(818) 591-1024. 


ee eee 


One Perspective 
continued from page 18 


continued to terrorize the outside 
world. I looked into their sweet, little, 
fragile faces. Some had clear blue eyes, 
curly hair, white soft skin, and lots of 
smiles and energy. Others had light 
brown eyes, dark black hair, and full of 
curiosity. Then there were a mixture of 
both, also with lots of giggles and spunk. 
I continued to watch them and wondered 
unacceptingly to myself how anyone 
could possibly consider the thought of 
harming these faces. These are the same 
faces that bring us love and joy. 

The parents of the children finally 
arrived at the church, where they were 
reunited with their children. The long 
waiting period sparked a rush of joy and 
relief when the parents ultimately 
hugged their children with tears rolling 
down their cheeks. I, too, caught myself 
almost tearing because the atmosphere 
was so intense and wrapped with high 
emotions. Then I realized that I didn’t 
want to become part of the problem, but 
just to serve as a solution. Det. Packard 
advised the parents that police escorts 
will be provided for them as they leave 
the church area. So one by one, they 
left. Then I was told that a second group 
of older students were in the process of 
being transported to the church along 
with LAPD officers. These students 
were not at the community center when 
the shooting occurred. They were on a 
field trip coming back from the Mu- 
seum of Tolerance. A third group of 
students, also part of the community 
center, was also considered to be trans- 


ported back to the church from 
Northridge Park. The second group of 
students actually arrived at the church, 
where they too reunited with the par- 
ents. The third group was kept in a 
secured and protected environment at 
the park by the LAPD officers. So, 1! 
was safer for the parents to pick them 
up there. I stayed in the church and 
watched all of the parents and children 
leave the location safely. Then I found 
myself suddenly staring up at the cross 
in this empty church, and I said, "I think 
I’ve done my deed for today.” ' 
I went home that night having a dil- 
ficult time to fall asleep. That same 
adrenaline rush never stopped until 
the following night. I couldn’t sleep. 
I was physically exhausted, but my 
mind remained at the crime scene. | 
did find some time to unwind and 
thought about the whole inciden! 
philosophically. I’ve learned thal 
when a tragedy strikes, it takes 4 
whole community to fight it. This 
tragedy surely brought the valley 
community together as a team, nol 
just individuals. I was touched by the 
parents who thanked us and made us 
feel a part of their family. I especially 
like to thank them and the caretakers 
who worked patiently with us on that 
day. I was impressed by the mannet 
we, LAPD, handled ourselves in mak- 
ing smart, yet quick decisions and sac 
rificing our courage in a life and death 
situation. I will modestly admit that 
am proud to be part of this family 
Like a little girl who quoted 
Dorothy’s ending words in “The Wiz- 
ard of Oz." and she whispered quiet) 
to my ears, “There's no place Like 


ome." 
home & 





Pevammenmpezwzancovzaooger 




























ZI 
=A 







6: 


eee 






eee SS, 


a 







’ 





Ce tne aac he 
GRECO Ki aS 4 
2 
3 
ri 
SONA 






YY 
ad 
\ 


SPORES! TP OORETS 





- 
“ 
‘ ‘ 
4 


4 
a . 


arrested and two other suspects will no 
longer be terrorizing the citizens of this 
city. 

We would like to thank all of the offi- 
cers from throughout the valley area for 
their assistance with these investigations. 
Both of these incidents were "big" news 
items. People throughout the world again 
observed how professional and brave our 


officers are. 


New to the Division 


We would like to welcome to our divi- 
sion Senior Management Analyst Teri 
Dixon. She is on a long-term loan from 
OCB. I asked, but no one knows the 
definition of long term! A belated wel- 
come to PSR Emily Newell assigned to 
Rape Specials as the Crime Analyst. She 
has been with the department 30 years 
and with us at RHD for over one year. I 
was informed, with a slap on the back of 
my square head, that I have never men- 
tioned her. Sorry. (I have only been writ- 
ing this article for a year.) 


Here Comes the Bride 


Congratulations to Clerk Typist 
Donna Corrales who is assigned to the 
robbery section. She tied the knot on 
September 4th in Los Angeles. Good 
luck. 


5 V4 4 
~ 
Ae ee, Sone) 
ye Sh Pemathaned 
2 CS epee 
> 
g “4 ; 


Cnn 
Morr, 
ph 





Lite 


ALI pans 
I <a 
LYE Sez 
pa 
7 
> om, TO OY : 
25 ys ltt Ty 
ti ” notes . 
da Calero 
Lg 


pao 
. & 


PS 
(Pald 


't 
\ 





The Divisional Reporter is a regular feature of The Thin Blue Line. Divisional Reporters may submit one report per Division for publication. 
Deadline for submission is the 6th of the month for the following month’s issue date. 








Jerry Beck has been up in Van Nuys 
Detectives for quite a spell. Harry Hol- 
lywood has been working Detectives for 
ages. Steve Fisk, a really old timer, is still 
running our Homicide Unit. Richard 
Richter, I saw him the other day. Must 
be holding down a caseload somewhere. 
John Edwards is getting very, very close 
with Greg Demirjian and Philip Mor- 
ritt a couple of years away. If there be 
more, they are not on the Van Nuys ros- 
ter, and I should be held accountable for 
them, or my glasses got fogged up and I 
missed them. 

Van Nuys did have its annual picnic 
and everyone got lots of sun, food and 
fun. It was one of those beach parties. 

I should mention a personal thing: my 
mother-in-law, Velma Sitler, passed 
away after a lengthy illness. Her suffer- 
ing is now over and she must be in a better 
place. This follows the passing of her 
husband, Vince, just one month prior. 
Just a note in Van Nuys, I did not mention 
how much I appreciated the flowers, 
cards, and support during this trying 
time. I was really impressed by the genu- 
ine concern by all. 

Some shuffling around occurred. As I 
already mentioned, Lt. McKeon will be 
on loan for at least a couple of months. I 
know these things sometimes extend the 
assigned time. Good luck, Anita. You are 
one of the best. Lt. Al Dravidzius has 
returned to Patrol, changing places with 


Steve Knieriem, who goes to the Admin 
Unit. Lt. Bill Guerrero just gets to stay 
put on PMS. Heather Gahry also went 
very special package she is carrying. Due 
in January. Congrats to Heather and 
Tom. Hope all goes well. 

I did miss one good caper last issue. 
Paul Prevost and Tarek Ismail were on 
patrol in Woodley Park and observed a 
Ford van for expired tabs. The driver also 
had an expired OP license. While filling 
out forms and tickets the van suddenly 
started to roll away as one of the driver's 
children inside the van was playing with 
the gear shift selector. Officer Ismail 







VANNuys 
HaPpeninds 


by Bob Rose 
Van Nuys Division 









Divisional Dragnet 


by Det. Tom Wich 
Robbery Homicide Division 










_ After a wonderful and relaxing vaca- 
ton in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, I 
; ee work to find no one submitted 

1g Tor publication in the Blue Line, 
and, of course, I was not here to see if 
anything newsworthy was happening. | 
did notice that Lt. Anita McKeown was 
on loan to ATD fora couple of months. I 
soon learned that Sgt. 2 Robert Hun- 
dertmark now has a free rein to imple- 
ment his rein of terror on Day Watch to 
whip us all into a finely-tuned machine. 

He did state that he was planning on 
leaving the department next July to teach 
School in Australia. Just think, a group of 
fun-loving young Aussies are enjoying 
life not knowing what is in store. 

Just a quick note to two of my old 
partners from my Foothill Patrol days. 
Ha, ha, to both of you. I made it. Thirty 
4 years. Just wanted you guys to know that. 

Norm Hunt, whatever shade tree you are 
sitting under and whatever animal you re 
taking down to skin, g } oe 

before you, I hope life has been as good 
to-you as it has been to me. Would not 
| trade any of it. Of course, I cannot be too 
puffed up. Two of the guys who broke me 

in are still on the job, and both of them 
right here in Van Nuys. Volker 
Wendlenner is still working down the 
hall, going out every day to train those 
Valley Traffic types. Then upstairs sits 
Dan Moran. I cannot believe this guy, 
still out tracking down bad guys and put- 





Commendable Incidents 


What a month for RHD! The whole 
division was called into action when an 
armed suspect decided he wanted to 
make a statement by shooting innocent 
children at a Jewish day care facility in 
Devonshire Division. The first respond- 
ing units from Devonshire did a heroic 
job securing the location and rescuing the 
victims. They then held the scene until 
other entities (SWAT, RHD, SID, etc.) 
responded. RHD initiated our Major 
Case Management System for the first 
time. A few weeks prior to this incident 
RHD began preparing for a major inci- 
dent that we thought might occur during 
the upcoming New Year celebration. The 
entire unit worked as a team and with the 
cooperation and assistance of outside lo- 
cal and federal agencies this menace to 
society was captured in Las Vegas within 
20 hours of the crime. 

Our next adventure included our 
friends from SIS. My.partner, Jack Gi- 


roud (yes, he has 44 years on the job), retirement paz 
_-and I have been investigati 7 f 








mmm mm le ~- — ~~ —_ 

















a tal 








Retirement Corner 

Here we go again. D-III Ted Ball. 
Homicide Specials, has decided to hang 
‘em up after 27 years of loyal dedicated 
work. It happened so fast that I was no’ 
able to put it in last month’s article. His 


pe Pwr i = 
party was held September 


i + 
























* reme 






‘ 
wth 








estigating a string of 29th at the academy. 
armed takeover robberies involving ppymp~ye... Se 
travel agencies. During our investigation RHD News — eo eae AS 
we requested the assistance of SIS. Dur- Well, it looks like we are going to have 
ing their part of the investigation they Citywide Detective X-mas party after all. 
came in contact with four suspects who Det. John Garcia is hunting down a Io- 
travel agency. As they attempted to take 

the suspects into custody an OIS oc- 


article. Until next time, BE SAFE. 
curred. As a result, two suspects were 






















oe 
% 





Sia. A ee Be 


cai , ss ew Fan ee 
ete eee ene wet ieee 


ting them away, only now as a Detective. 
I will be joining three other Van Nuys 
Patrol types in the thirty year club. Lead- 
ing the parade is Dick Powers, the Senior 
Lead Ron Carpenter, and Tom Bibbs. 
Right behind us is Jim Rigney and Jim 
Conrad. Close, but not there yet. One 
sergeant is in this group, but | won't 
mention Paul Anderson. Joe Aparicio 
was going to write something about the 
detectives with over thirty, but as usual, 
it’s time to write this all up and Joe 1s in 
court, Joe is in a meeting, Joe cannot be 
found. What else do you expect of old 
timer. | 


OFFICERS, ARE 


Law Enforcemen 










longer! Call for back up now al 


(818) 993-3668 


Your health insurance welcome! 


VOU SUFFERING FROM SAM BROWN SYNDROME? 


Dr. Goldstein is familiar with the problems unique to 
t and has successfully treated hundreds of 


officers with Chiropractic Care. He specializes in the 
treatment of headaches, back and neck pain. 


Officers, don’t ache for assistance any 


* 10D * T/C’s * Sports Injuries 


quickly went in foot pursuit of the run- 
away van. The van failed to respond to 
verbal commands, Officer Ismail caught 
up with the van, rescued the child, then 
managed to depress the emergency 
brake. All parties were saved. Good job. 
But, of course, he still cited the driver and 
impounded the van. Got to keep up that 
recap. Don’t want to be a drone or a slug. 
Well, that’s all for this issue. Maybe 
next month I will be in "the know" or then 
again I may remain in a fog that I have 
been in for thirty years. Or I could be 
gone... Naw, having too much fun. 


>, 
“9 






Seth D. Goldstein, D.C. 
19350 Business Center Dr., Ste. 103 
Northridge, CA 91324 

(818) 993-3668 
L.A.PD. Panel Doctor 

























More Divisional Reporter on next page 


CITY OF NOVATO 
50,000 population 
Lateral Police Officer 
POST Academy Graduate 
Police Trainee 


Salary: 7/1/99 $3,772 - $5,055 + benefits 
7/1/00 $3,885 - $5,206 + benefits 


The City of Novato is seeking capable, ambitious and highly motivated individuals to join its 
Department. The City will be conducting oral interviews for LATERAL CANDIDATES 
ONLY in the Los Angeles area and at the City of Novato the week of November 15, 1999, 
for interested candidates. 


Our Department has been nationally recognized for its diversity and citizen outreach pro- 


grams. We offer a broad variety of career opportunities with assignments in investigations, 
traffic (motors), K-9, School Resource Officer, DARE, Bicycle Patrol, Crime Prevention, SRT 
(SWAT) and more. Several of the benefits we currently offer include: a work schedule either 
a 9/80 and 4/10, City paid PERS (2% @ 50), POST incentive pay, a flex benefit program (pre- 
tax dollar program) and in the process of finalizing a post retirement medical program. 


Novato is located 30 miles north of San Francisco in picturesque Marin County, just minutes 
away from San Francisco, the Napa Wine Country, beautiful coastal beaches and parks and a 
host of other recreational amenities. 


Application form and position brochure may be obtained by contacting the Personnel Office, 
900 Sherman Avenue, Novato, CA 94945 or (415) 897-4349. Please visit our web site at 
www.ci.novato.ca.us. Closing date is 5:00 p.m. October 30, 1999, Women and minorities 
are encouraged to apply. EOE 7 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 21 














by Julian Almaraz 
Foothill Division 





Well I am sorry about last month’s 
article. | was on a needed vacation. 


Foothill Patrol 


Senior Lead Officer Scott Kennedy, 
#26227, and his partner, Officer Anna 
Garza, #31810, working 16A7 day 
watch patrol, received information that 
a robbery suspect’s name was Daniel 
Chavez. The suspect, who is a known 
gang member, was responsible for nu- 
merous robberies of the high school 
students. The suspect would simulate a 
handgun, kidnap and rob the high 
school students of their personal prop- 
erty. 

Officers observed the suspect’s car 
parked at 1941 7th Street in the city of 
San Fernando. Officers conducted a 
Code 5 in the area to monitor the activ- 
ity of the suspect. When the car left the 
location, the officers followed and con- 
ducted a traffic stop. The suspect was 
not in the car and the officers responded 
back to 1941 7th Street. SLO Kennedy 
knocked on the door of the suspect’s 
house and used a ruse to get the suspect 
outside of the house. When the suspect 
exited the house, the officers arrested 
him without incident. 

The officers are to be commended for 
their attention to duty, keen observation 
skills and working relationship with 
area detectives in obtaining informa- 
tion on violent gang members. This ar- 
rest will clear numerous robberies and 
remove a predator off the streets for a 
very long time. 


Foothill Detectives 


This month’s article is about Captain 
I Kenneth Garner, #21899, was pro- 
moted to a well-earned Captain II posi- 
tion to South Traffic. All of us here at 
Foothill will miss his kindness, caring, 
and friendship to all of his subordinates 
in his command. We also enjoyed his 
great leadership skills and motivation 
of all officers to study to promote. 

Captain Garner also promoted physi- 
cal fitness, teamwork, and healthy liv- 
ing. On occasions he would run with the 
Code 7 running group from area detec- 
tives. Captain Garner also organized 
the Foothill bench press team, which 
we placed in 2nd place behind 77th 
Division. He was also involved in all of 


Tom Sweet 
President 
Retired LAPD officer 


DIVISIONAL REPORTER 


the division’s fund-raisers by cooking 
for the officers at the station, open 
house and family picnic. Captain Gar- 
ner is also a great father, with his beau- 
tiful daughter. He is always with her on 
his days off and spending valuable time 
with her. When you see them together 
you could see the mutual love between 
both of them. 

One of the greatest quotes I have 
heard from a 25-year-plus senior detec- 
tive stated to several roll calls said 
"This is one of the best captains I ever 
worked for and all of us will truly miss 
his leadership, both in patrol and detec- 
tives. We are blessed.” 


Sports 

We had several officers involved in 
the California Police Summer Games: 
Sgt. I Erick Jones, who was involved 
in both small and large bore rifle event, 
Laura Jackman, Jorge Morales were 
both involved in soccer, Sharon Biggs 
played tennis and basketball, Kelly 
Kocun was in all the swimming events. 
I was involved in the bench press, 
equestrian and played softball. Softball 
players were Robert Collier, Darrell 
Davis, Paula Davidson, Diane Esca- 
lante, Hector Guzman, Anna Hart- 
well, John Izzo, Michelle Rodriguez, 
and Olando Rodriguez, Jr., Sgt. Phil- 
lip Smith, Brian Strothers, Marti 
Whittemore. 

The majority of these athletes were 
involved in the Nevada Police Summer 
Games in Las Vegas. 


Ins and Outs 


We have several great officers and a 
sergeant we are losing: Det. II Brophy 
to Sgt. I, NE Division; Sgt. II 
Lawrence to TBD; Officer McConnell 
to VTD; Officer Biggs to VTD; and 
Officer Fields to VTD Motors. We will 
miss you and take care. 

We're gaining Capt. I Singh from 
IAG, Det. Knolls from SB-Hom, and 
P-I Bunker. We welcome all of you to 
a great division. 


Foothill Picnic 


Thanks to all involved. We had a 
great picnic. We fed over 400 officers 
and their families at Castaic Lake, 
which was secured by Sgt. Steve Sam- 
Bar. Officer Forman organized all 
concessions and the menu. Officers 
Erick Yepes, Teresa Wilson, 
Michelle and Rolando Rodriguez, 
Mario Barillas, David Swanson, Sgt. 
Ellias, and myself helped with the 
cooking. Officer Jacqueline Landit- 
ser was the activity director for all the 
children events and gave out prizes to 
all the kids involved. Sgt. Gordon 
Wade and his brothers band provided 
all the entertainment for the picnic. In 
addition, Officer John McAdam enter- 
tained the families with songs and im- 
personations of Elvis. 


o, 
“9 


Richard Sweet 


Sales Representative 
Retired LAPD officer 


REASONABLE & RELIABLE 
RE-ROOFING ¢ NEW & REPAIRS 


RESIDENTIAL 
COMMERCIAL 
FULLY INSURED 


Page 22/ The Thin Blue Line / October '99 


Free Estimates 


EL ERIE: 





CONTRACTORS LICENSE 
NO. C 39-G71848 








MIGHTY 





by Tom Fox 
Central Traffic Division 


Congratulations to Sgt. 1+2 Bruce 
Wallace, 30 years of dedicated service 
to the LAPD. Looking forward to the 


next ? years. 


Retiring 

Rich Madison #17136 242, Rich is 
retiring after 28 years of dedicated serv- 
ice to the LAPD. . 

Rich joined the Department in Au- 
gust of 1971, from the Academy he 
went to 77" Division, then to STD, 
Central, Northeast and CTD. Have a 
good retirement Rich, we’ll miss you. 

Sgt. 1+2 Tom Hatter is retiring after 
28 years of service to LAPD. Retire- 








by D. A. McCallum 
Valley Traffic Division 


Valley Traffic Division 
20 Year Reunion and 
Annual Picnic 

VTD’s annual picnic is approaching 
soon and this time will be combined 
with a 20-year reunion since its incep- 
tion in 1979. The picnic/reunion is 
scheduled for Saturday, September 18, 
between 11:00 to 6:00 at the Rancho 
San Antonio Boys Town located at 
21000 Plummer Street in Chatsworth. 
Adults - $6.00, children (4-12) - $3.00, 
and 3 years and under are free. Contact 
Kelly for additional information at 
818/756-8514. Get your tickets soon 
and your defense rep’s standing by! 


New Arrival 


Congratulations to Officer Watson, 
#33294, for a “bouncing baby girl," 











- 
: 
<=> 
—... . 
b ; 
s * 
. at 
< od ~ 


Natalie Laine Watson, DOB: 4/14/99; 6 Ibs. 12 
0z.; 19" long; Mom: Lisa. 


LUCKY-BUILDER'S CENTER 





THE GOLD RUSH 


20% Discount to LAPD Members 
Custom Jewelry Designs 


18569 DEVONSHIRE STREET, NORTHRIDGE, CALIFORNIA 91324 


ment party will be held on Octotl 
at the Academy 
S gt }4+2 Rich Greenwood | 
up his motor for a Sgt. 2 spot at C) 
Tom Fox was promoted to P 
will fill the P-3 sp?! left | 


Bonilla. 
The Ins and Outs of CTD 


Leaving CTD on the Next Traner.. 
Angel Bonilla left CTD, transferring ,, 
Hollenbeck for an FTO spot 

In Coming: Sgt. Art Jones joins 4 
ranks at CTD, welcome aboard 


Cops for Tots Car Show 


CTD held the 4" Annual Cops fo, 
Tots Car Show. Again it was a hyo, 
success raising over $20,000 for the 
Bone Marrow Unit at Children’s Hog. 
pital. There were approximately 459 
cars entered. A lot of money and time 
was spent on the cars that were entered. 
Looking forward to next year. (See 
photo coverage in this issue’s center 
spread.) 


Natalie Laine Watson, born Apri! |4. 
1999. Natalie weighed in at a whopping 
6 pounds, 12 ounces, 19 inches long, 
and was born at Henry Mayo Newhall 
Memorial Hospital in Valencia. Also, 
congratulations to Officer Fuller, 
#34077, for a new baby boy. Devon 
James Fuller weighed in at 7 pounds, 8 
ounces, and 20 inches long at Mercy 
Southwest Hospital in Bakersfield, 
born August 29, 1999. 


New Peeps 

Welcome to the following person- 
nel Zoek, VTD: Sgt. Wheeling, 
Houze, #24531 (from Var Naya tate 
Officer McConnell, #30596 (from 
Foothill), Officer Boka, #33212 
(from Van Nuys), Officer Tate, 
#33700 (from West Valley), Officer 
Biggs, #33211 (from Foothill), and 
Officer Turner, #27260 (from West 
Valley). 


BUHHH BYYYE 


We wish the following personnel 
transferring out of VTD the best of 
luck: Officer Royce, #32126, en route 
to DARE; Officer Grenci, #26867, on 
a follow-up to SID; and Officer Roth- 
man, #33431, soon to be Code-6 al 
West Valley. 


Birthdays 


Happy B-day to the following VTD 
personnel for another candle on the ol’ 
cake: Akana (9/19), Alfonso (9/10), 
Biggs (9/13), Bowen (9/16), Brous- 
seau (9/3), Clark (9/26), Delatorre 
(9/6), Espino (9/20), Fields (9/29), 
Gambill (9/17), Gomez (9/18), Hop- 
kins (9/24), Johnson (9/3), Landry 
(9/11), Macgregor (9/12), Mascola 
(9/8), Palma-Cabarrus (9/6), Ponce 
(9/4), Rives (9/21), Sandoval (9/30), 
Schram (9/22), and Williams (9/10). 


1.0.D. 


Let’s not forget those that are 1.0.D. 
Give them a call or stop by and say hi: 
Officers Baker, Schott, Klein, Helm, 
Rives and Garza. 






RS 





368-2815 IRA KAPLAN 











an 


fol 
is 


ne 
tin 
vi! 


jus 
fir 





Tn wee ee Oe OO 


am em Gees CA — -_-—— 


— = =e ele lS 





by Elaine Dewberry 
Devonshire Division 





North Valley Jewish 
Ommunity Incident 


. Without Saying a word, a middle- 
es balding gunman stormed the 

Orth Valley Jewish Community Cen- 
ter (NVJCC) on Tuesday, August 10, 
1999, and Sprayed approximately 70 
rounds in the lobby and hallway, 
wounding three children and two staff 
members. The Suspect, later identified 
as Buford Furrow, fled on foot to a 
waiting van and drove off. 

The first Supervisors at the scene 
were Sgts. Tim Surrette, Jim An- 
tenucci and Steve Savala, Devonshire 
Area Patrol. Police Officers Andrew 


ae a al 72 - 
North Valley Jewish Community 
Memorial. 


Center 


Thompson, Misty Goodnight, 

Gabriel Colon and Ranon Samuels, 
Devonshire Area Patrol and Officer 
Robert Trulik, Van Nuys Area Patrol, 
were the first officers to arrive at the 
location. 

The supervisors and officers were 
met by frantic employees of the com- 
munity center and were directed to- 
wards various victims of gunshot 
wounds. R/A units were requested, as 
were additional resources. Sgt. Art 
Tom took control of the perimeter es- 
tablishment. 

The supervisors formulated the arriv- 
ing officers into teams for cover, search 
and rescue. Utilizing officers with shot- 
guns as point officers, the supervisors 
directed the search of the two buildings 
that comprised the community center. 








Five victims were located and removed 
from the location by LAFD Paramedics 
and Firefighters, under the cover of 
protecting officers. Additionally, ap- 
proximately 36 children, ranging from 
four to seven years of age, and approxi- 
mately 12 adults were safely escorted 
from the community center to a pro- 
tected area by teams of officers. 

Captain John Egan, Acting Area 
C/O, Devonshire Community Police 
Station, Lt. Joe Eddy, O.1.C. of Devon- 
shire OSD, and Lt. Paul Wright, Dev- 
onshire Administrative Lieutenant. 
arrived at the Incident Command Post. 
Capt. John Egan took over as the Inci- 
dent Commander. 

While this was occurring on Rinaldi 
Street, three busloads of children from 
the NVJCC were away from the loca- 
tion. One busload of children was on a 
field trip to the Museum of Tolerance 
in West L.A., the other two buses. with 
60 children on board, fled to Northridge 
Park. Det. III Tom Broad, Supervisor, 
Burglary Table, was the O.LC. at 
Northridge Park. Det. II Bruce 
Heschong and Det. II Bob Wantling, 
along with several other detectives. 
took over the task of interviewing the 
children and staff. We wish to com- 
mend the Recreational Staff at 
Northridge Park for their patience and 
assistance in securing the children. 
Some of the children who were eyewit- 
nesses to the incident were transported 
to Devonshire Station, where they were 
interviewed by Detectives Kenneth 
Crocker and Robert Peloquin and 
Det. Trainee Claudia Martin. A big 
thank you to P3+1 Sally Barnes for 
supplying the food from McDonald’s 
for the children. 

At approximately 1110 hours, a 


woman reported that a man carjacked 
her green Toyota Corolla after aban- 


doning ared van with Washington State 

PlatessiThe officers located sthousands 
of rounds of ammunition, a flak jacket 
and survivalist books inside of the van. 
It was later determined that Buford Fur- 
row committed this crime as he was 
fleeing from the NVJCC incident. 

At 1153 hours, Joseph Ileto, an on- 
duty postal employee, was murdered in 
the 9900 block of Valley Circle Blvd. 
This incident was later attributed to 
Buford Furrow. Det. III Michael Op- 
pelt, Det. II Malena Heissel, Det. II 
John Flemming and Det. I Abel 
Parga, Devonshire Homicide, con- 
ducted this investigation, later taken 
over by RHD. 

At 1623 hours, Devonshire Area Pa- 
trol Officers Michael Judge and Jan- 
ine Green, were on a Station call 
regarding a theft suspect at 21603 Dev- 
onshire Street, when they located the 
1999 Toyota Corolla vehicle taken in 
the carjacking that occurred earlier that 
day. 

Devonshire Area personnel are to be 
commended for their quick response, 
presence of mind, professionalism and 
attention to duty in dealing with this 
most critical incident. The entire Dev- 
onshire family would like to express its 
sincere appreciation to all of our sisters 
and brothers in "BLUE," who re- 
sponded to this incident from surround- 
ing areas. We would also like to thank 
the Devonshire Area Community for 
their continuing show of support. 


Multicultural 
Fiesta Luncheon 

Devonshire Area Personnel recently 
displayed their culinary talents by pre- 
paring dishes that represented their eth- 
nicity. This was an avenue to express 
how we are alike (we all enjoy good 
food!), and Devonshire personnel were 


able to sample delicacies from around 
the world. This luncheon was the brain- 
child of Sgt. Danny Mastro. Thanks, 
Danny! This was a spectacular idea. 
We're all looking forward to the next 





Photo by Elaine Dewberry 
Officers enjoying International lunch. (I-r) Ra- 
non Samuels, Binnie Phan, Susan Herold and 
Sally Barnes. 


heads out to WVAL, David Ross off 
to 77th Street, Lea Lopez and Doreen 
Wilson will be riding the waves at 
Pacific and Marshal Webb joins the 
STD team. Best of luck to you all and 
enjoy your new assignments. 


Welcome 


We extend a warm welcome back to 
Sgt. Paul Miller, in from the Chief's 
office, and welcome to Officers Julie 
Leszczynski (can you say x@/o*%$? 
Easy for you to say) joining us from 
DHD, Paul Waymire in from NHWD, 
Daryoush Sameyah joining the ‘A 
Team” at the Grand Theft Table, and 
fresh from the Academy, Raymond 
Corrales. Welcome to each of you. All 
I can say is enjoy the ride! We hope 
your stay will be enjoyable. 


Thought for the Month! 


We bid a fond farewell to Sgt. Al- Value what you do and 


bert Gavin, who leaves us for MSD, do what you value. 
Officers Victor Renzelman. who “ 


| More Divisional Reporter on next page 


\ . PAP ear - — — — 





Officer Jeff Branson looking over selections at 
International luncheon. 


one. I hear that Sgt. Steve Savala wants 
a chili cookoff. No fair, Steve, you’ve 
had time to practice. 


In Sympathy 

The entire Devonshire family 
would like to express our condolences 
to Sgt. II Jim Meyer, his wife, Bon- 
nie, and their daughter, Christina, on 
the passing of their son-in-law and 
husband, respectively. Our thoughts 
and prayers are with you. 


Farewell 







4 





OLICE OFFICER 
(Lateral or Academy Graduate) 
City of Santa Rosa 
Salary: $4,162-$5,059 







Additional compensation paid for: Special Response Unit 3%; Crisis 
Negotiations Unit 3%; Hazardous Device Unit 3%; Environmental 


Crimes Unit 3%; Field Training Officer 2.5%; Motorcycle Bonus 2.5%; 
Accident Investigator 2.5%; Detective 5%; Bi-Lingual Pay (2 levels) 3% 
or 5%; POST incentive pay - Intermediate 4.5% and Advance 7% of 
monthly base salary; City paid 9% PERS; 4/10 work week; paid life 
insurance; and other excellent benefits. Qualified laterals may be eligible 
for appointment up to the Sth step in the salary tange commensurate with 
experience, education, training, and POST certificates. 














Special assignment opportunities include: Detective - Property Crimes, 
Sex Crime & Family Violence, Homicide, Robbery & Felony Assault, 


Gang Crime and School Resource, Career Criminal Apptehension & 
Investigative Support, Background Investigations; Neighbothood 
Enforcement Team; Accident Investigations; Motorcycle and Downtown 
Foot/Bicycle Patrol; and Narcotic and Auto Theft Task Forces. 












Minimum qualifications: Currently enrolled in or completion of a CA 
Basic Academy within the last 2 years; possess, or eligible to possess, a 
CA POST Basic Certificate and currently, or within the past 12 months, 
employed for a minimum of | year as a California Peace Officer. 











If you are interested in pursuing a career with a modern, progressive, mid- 
sized (166 sworn) police department located in the heart of the Sonoma 
County wine country, contact the City of Santa Rosa Human Resources 
Dept. at (707) 543-3060, or call Debbie Houser in the Police Dept. at 
(707) 543-3566, or the Recruiting Hotline (800) 675-6554. Applications 
may be obtained from the City of Santa Rosa Human Resources Dept., 
100 Santa Rosa Ave., Santa Rosa, CA, 95404. This is a continuous 
examination. The final filing date has not yet been established. 

http://ci.santa-rosa.ca.us/pd/santarosapd.htm 












October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 23 









by Eugene "The Taxman" Bedolla 
South Traffic Division 





Greetings, Amigos. 


Due to technical difficulties, last 
month's Blue Line article was mysteri- 
ously not included in the September 
issue. The FBI is currently investigat- 


ing. 


Change of the Guard 


Okay, let’s start at the top. A change 
at the top has been made at South Traf- 
fic. We wish to express our best wishes 
to Capt. Reggie Maeweather as he 
ventures back to Newton Division. 
Good luck, Capt. Maeweather. Thanks 
for all of your hard work at STD. 

South Traffic is now privileged to 
receive back an alumnus, Capt. Ken- 
neth Garner (formerly Lt. Garner). 


our movie would be "I Know What You 
Did Last August 13." There would be a 
sequel titled, "I Still Know What You 
Did on August 13.” The title role in 
both movies would be one of L.A.’s 
finest Motor Officers, namely Robert 
"Bob" Williamson. Picture if you will 
Officer Williamson arising on August 
13, 1998. The daily routine goes as 
planned. Badge, sidearm, and motor- 
boots are put in place. Motorcycle is 
started and off he rides. However, what 
Officer Williamson doesn’t know is 
this is August 13. The gremlins are out 
and they have him in their sights. Offi- 
cer Williamson is riding N/B on the 110 


774 ; | 
arshallWebb, Officer Carto 
quick-thinking citizen follows this , VMiar 
£ | a 
dividual long enough to flag down SI 
Sgt. Liggett and the cilizen 15 taken 
fast forward [to 


lars 


Summer Picnic 


into custody. Now, S1 1) had 1 VCry 16 
Aucust 13, 1999. Same routine as yicnic at the Harbor Kang 
ahove for Officer Williamson. But ae oe ny (ae 
ic illiamson ne- . 
once again Officer say a super deluxe time. Mai 


glects to check his Police Protective 


‘olved in the planning o! 
League calendar because if he had he volve p 


at the picnic but I would |i) 
nize Sgt. Lanette Smith 


would have noticed the date read: Au- 
gust 13. Officer Williamson is N/B on 
Normandie Avenue in pursuit of a 





STD's finest BCMC'’s. 


greenie. However, those gremlins 
cause him to lose control of his motor- 
cycleandcollide with the street, suffer- 
ing injury. This is a true story, believe 


, Training Notice 
if or not. 


and Officer Connie Whit, 


Ron Roberson for their effor 


were even able to procure a profes- 
sional entertainer. See photo on this 
page. 


Welcome Capt. Garner. We know 
your stay here will be productive and 
challenging to us all. 


Stra nge Happen in’s Sgt. Carl "Smokey Robinson" Henderson. 





Let it be known that Officer William- 
son forevermore will be granted a day 
off, T/O, assigned to the desk or sent 
away fishing each and every day the 


I would like to say how disappointed 
I am with our Training Unit. They have 
failed, you see. There is a certain STD 
officer who has been waiting and wait- 
ing to attend the Post Certified Emer- 





Those of you who are moviegoers 
know that the recent trend of movies 
out right now have a horror or mystery 
theme to them. Well, South Traffic has 
its own unsolved mystery. The title of 


Fwy when without any warning a mo- 
torist collides with Officer Williamson, 
causing him to go down and suffer in- 
jury. This motorist, to add insult to in- 
jury, thinks he can get away, but a 


49G2 37YEARSOFEXPERIENCE 1999 


37 YEARS OF SERVICE 37 YEARS OF RELIABILITY 


weeps TT a. WE 


f 2 
TS NG a COE 


— as Wl de té Phas 
ret TLE Lm 
7 ig. 


SIT Le ep PPT a ) 
aa ADDS. cos ae BS PTT FT iit tse 


TIT td 


Ps 


eee ey 


ONSTRUCTION CORP 


"pace GAEDAR PINE 
4 Fy = . 


wt 
. epee twtan nm . 


© a’ 4 ~~ . ; 
a.) ? 
he re c. 
as a nad - . iter 3 . 
7, 4 i a! 


° » ‘ 4 - 
; “Biggs pee TS er 
er, OW . nad er. Ease 


7 


ADD-A-ROOM 


© SPECIALIZING IN SECOND FLOOR ADDITIONS 
e Lovely Family Rooms e 3/4 and Roman Baths 
e Luxurious Master Bedrooms ¢ Fireplaces 


100% FINANCING 
WE FINANCE OUR OWN JOBSoac 


- 
7 


ADD AROOM . 


Baan ate oo 
. Ms ad ’ . . oJ 
sought tag aie I 
SF oh “~> a om, . % 


Yen 4 


- 
Sa; 


= 


WRITTEN 
COMPLETION 
DATES 


WHITTIER BL. 


: WASHINGTON BL. 


YOU PREFER, WE'LL DO THE 
ROUGH YOU FINISH - SAVE MORE 


& 
VISIT OUR MODEL DISPLAYS WEEKDAYS 9-5, SAT 10-5 
a 


> 
bax 

oe 
ee 

tee 
[5 $2 
> 

2 
< 

eS 


| Special 
4? Rates for 


ONSTRUCTION CORP.) tarp 


ISLES IRIE LESLIE LTA EERSTE pa 


FREE 
DESIGNER 
+) oh 


Page 24 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





OPTI y 
ISITE 


REFERENCES 


Bank of Amorica 


(562) 692-0304 |... 


Contra. Uc. (/0. 244416 


"10690 E. WASHINGTON BLVD., WHITTIER 


(CORNER OF PIONEER & WASHINGTON BLVD. 


AT THE 605 FREEWAY) 


calendar reads August 13. P.S., at the 
time of this writing, Officer William- 
son is back full duty. 


Baby Tall 


a pe ae es e ee 
— Justa guteiof congiaty ati 
aan Ray Banker on 


daughter and to Officer Lloyd Johnson 
on the birth of his son. All are well and 
those who have been there share your 
lack of sleep and changing of dirty dia- 
pers. But as a sign I read states, refer- 
ring to parenthood, "It’s the hardest job 
you ll ever love." 





Recent Arrivals 


Welcome to Day Watch, Lt. Gre- 
gory “American Gladiator" 
Montgomery. Also, Officer Frank 
Bancalari, Officer Walter Attlesey, 
Officer Wendy Tanaka, Officer 


DAL 


GOS LS LSE = Costes le OmN 


Diamond Importers 
Designers and 
Manufacturers of Fine Jewelry 





gency Road Flare Lighting Class 


Officer Ladonna Cissell has within a 


two week period scalded her flare light- 


ing hand not once but twice. Please. 
a ial show some compassion 
ons to Of- 4d send Officer Cissell to this class 


Training Unit, 






aA 


Please note the retirement of three 
very special LAPD officers: Sgt. Steve 
Ellis, 31 years; Officer Mike Hill- 
house, 30 years, and Officer Gary 
Robbins, 30 years. The date is Wednes- 
day, October 6, at the Harbor Range at 
1630 hours. For info contact Dave 
Lehman at STD. 


Final Thoughts 


As always, don’t forget your fellow 
officers who are sick, ill or injured. 
Give them a call. Finally, Motors, keep 
the rubber side down and CI keep the 
light bar off of the pavement. “ 


Y 


Special offer to LAPD employees. 
Up to 40% off, 


¢ Gemologists to assist you. 
© GIA-EGL certified diamond stones 


available, 


Layaway plan, No finance charge 


© 15-day exchange or money back 
quarantee. 


Hours: 10-6 Monday-Friday 
9:30-5 Saturday 


International Jewelry Center 
550 S. Hill St., Ste, 830 
Los Angeles, CA 90013 


(213) 623-3780 * 623-4087 





A Of =e = NA A FPA eS Fs PA eS et lS 


_—_—— —_—et ATA AN OO. Ke olCUlr 





by Jorge F. Torres 
Officer of the Quarter 


We'd hi 

ike to congratulate O 

7 ns S te J = 
il Castor fficer Vir 


for being chosen the Officer 
arter for the second quarter of 
(I told you I was catching up. I'll 
hird quarter officer 
n say "Mobile Field 
as distinguished himself by 
of service, productivity, and 
On to duty. Furthermore. his 


of the Qu 
1999. 


© announcing the t 
quicker than you ca 
Force!") He has 
his quality 
his dedicati 






ae “ 
SS < 


Proud father, Officer Leonard Johnson. 


supervisors have noted the personal char- 
acter demonstrated by Virgil and the peer 
leadership he provides on a daily basis 
He 1s always in his spit-shined shoes and 
ready to respond to any emergency. Con- 
gratulations to a well-deserved officer! 


promocenst™ 
Promotions! Promotions! 

There were lots of promotion opportu- 
nities last deployment period. And that 
meant almost everyone had their nose 
plunged inside his or her traffic manual. 
(What’s the definition of a T/C again?) 
Congratulations to Al Rice for being cho- 
sen as the new Sergeant II. As a reward 
he was promptly assigned to morning 
watch! Ken Koch went from a P-2 motor 
dog to a shiny new sergeant al Central 
Division. (Who said the department 
didn’t have a sense of humor.) Sal 
Jaramillo gives up his motor to become 
a field training officer. Lee Wilmon be- 
comes the new follow-up investigator. 
And Sandra Kipp and Ken Hobbes are 
promoted to detective auditors. I know 
the rank and file will benefit greatly with 
these well deserved promotions. 


Fun at the Beach 


On July 17, West Traffic, along with 
our sister station Wilshire Division, en- 
joyed a fun-packed family picnic at 
Zuma Beach. The Wilshire Area Boost- 









First National Funding Group 


ers provided the food. the weath 

er wa 
spectacular, and the officers Rae 
the fun. A great day was had by all! 


Retirements 


Ken Farrell joins Roy Langheld 
and the gang in the "Life of Leisure 
Club." After 30 glorious years Ken 
Says, "No mas." We are going to miss 
you, Ken. 


Recoup 


Early in August Motor Officer Efren 
Acosta had the misfortune of having a 
vehicle turn in front of him causing 
Efren to go down on his bike. He suf- 
fered a severely sprung right ankle and 
a badly shaken body. We wish Efren a 
speedy recovery. 


Like Father Like 
Daughter, Almost 


They say example is the best teacher. 
No one epitomizes this better than our 
own Leonard Johnson. Leonard grew 
up in a small town in northern Florida. 
He excelled in both academics and bas- 
ketball. When the time came, Leonard 
chose to become a proud LAPD officer 
as his life’s ambition. 

Leonard’s daughter, Lynetta Black- 
Shear, also grew up ina small town in 
northern Florida. She attended the 





Proud daughter, Cadet Lynetta Blackshear. 


same schoolsas her father, and she also 
excelled in academics and basketball. 
However, when the time came for her 
to choose her life’s dream, Lynetta 
chose the West Point Military Acad- 
emy. In her family’s tradition she 
excelled in her academics. 

Lynetta recently graduated from 
the Academy near the top of her class. 
She is currently stationed in Missourl 
and will soon become a brand new 
second lieutenant. 

Congratulations to a proud father 
and daughter who are fine examples 
to all of us! 

Well. it was a fun and almost safe 
summer. The fall should be better. Start 
thinking about attending our Christmas 
dinner. This year it’s being held at the 
luxurious Universal Sheraton Hotel. 
Call or visit Efren. I’m sure he would 
appreciate it. As Roy used to say, "Keep 


the rubber side down!" 


ee 


° 


Retired LA.P.D. 
Rampart Detectives 


PURCHASING AND REFINANCING! 
















Now ist 


* 30 year and 15 year fixed 
° Adjustable Rate Loans 
° FHA and VA Loans 









he Time to Buy 
it’s a Buyers Market 


We Have Outstanding Rates On the Following Programs: 


For a Free Consultation Call 


-6138 
Pager (626) 916 6 
othe (626) 332-9400 


e No Down Loans Available 


e 2nd Mortgages with 
425% Loan to Value 


Joe Robinson 











by Caesar Gonzalez 
DARE Division 





Le Ann Rimes Concert 
at the L.A. Sports Arena 

On October 5, 1999, DARE Ameri- 
can will host an educational event at the 





Officer Shiree Arrant (ba 


Los Angeles Sports Arena featuring 
country music star Le Ann Rimes. 
Le Ann is currently touring the 





ESS ov sa 
Ss 
< s 
we 
x . - 

3 2 

‘ + BOSS rs 

~ e. 


ckground) poses with DARE students. 


tors, police officers, and others who 
reach out and help children. 

Her albums have sold millions and 
she continues to be a formidable force 
in the music industry influencing the 
youth of our country. 


In and Out 


New to DARE Division are Clerk 
Typist Sylvia Solis, Senior PSR Adri- 
ane Ables, Lt. Pratt, and Officer De La 
Rosa. Welcome to all classroom man- 
agement and DARE balloons. 

Promoting out of DARE is Anthony 
Aceves who is moving on to be one of 
Southeast’s newest Training Officers. 

Anthony is a ten-year department 
veteran with a wealth of experience un- 





der his belt. Tony is a soft spoken offi- 
cer who lets his work speak for itself. 
He has a great work ethic and will be an 





Manchester School displays their DARE pride with a school mural. 


United States and performing commer- 
cial concerts in all major metropolitan 
cities except Los Angeles. 

Due to this and her support of the 
DARE ideology, she will be perform- 
ing a concert to honor students, educa- 


asset to Southeast. 
Joining Tony will be Sgt. Piersol 
who is headed for Southeast Vice. 
Thanks for all your hard work and 
keep in touch. You will be missed at 
DARE Division. 


\/ 
4 


More Divisional Reporter on next page 












Lace or 
Buckle 





Double 


8833 Lankershim Blvd. qe 


Sun Valley, CA 91352 
(818) 768-7880 FAX (818) 767-3101 
e-mail: boots@bootsonline.com 
Custom Senior Boots: 
$380.00 
Senior Stock Boots: 


$275.00 
gx (Delivery Time: 3-5 Weeks) 








Attention Motor Cops!! ¢ 


-FRENCH CALF- | 
SENIOf 





Boot Features: 
@ 100% Leather 
@ Fully Lined 
@ Oil Resistant Heavy Duty Soles | 
@ Plain or Laced Instep 
@ Buckled Top or Laced Top 
@ Each Boot is 100% Handcrafted 
to ensure the highest quality 


Patrol Boots 
| 


{ 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 25 








by Cathy Hardy 
Metropolitan Division 


Greetings from the hub. H 
. Ha 
Autumn! Here’s what’s up and 
these parts. 


Going to thec 
Son e Chapel... 





ployee in connection with an inye 
tion that the employee reasonah) 
lieves may result in disciplinary ;.. * 


Tene lations to Fernando against the employee wiJ] eMlitle 

; team) and fiancée, Ilene. employee to a representative of jm 

uring a surprise birthday party in her choice. (Emphasis added) Md 
honor on August 7th, Fernie FINALLY When and Where Will 


Popped the question (yes complete with 
bended knee) and presented Ilene with 
a spectacular engagement ring. Best 
wishes for a splendid engagement and 
many more happy moments! 


Maternity Ward 


Congrats to Canales family. Chris 
(B-pltn) and wife Patricia welcomed 
Alyssa Christina on 8/3 weighing in at 
6.12 ounces and 19 inches long. 





by Paul M. Weber 
Officer Representation Section 





the Interview Take Placa) 


Section 3303 (a) of the Go ern 
Code provides that the interyvjey, ... 
preferably occur while the Officer ;. 
duty, or during normal waking p..” 
This is unless the seriousnes< of a 
investigation requires otherwise ; 


The supervisor from IAD or your 


In my experience most inter, 


work place has contacted you regarding 
an incident. What triggers your rights 


lews 
on duty or very close to it. This Not; 


complies with state law, but he} my 


Incoming 3300 of the California Govern- 7 
Alyssa joins big brother Steven. The | Under - Z PS Con. 

Welcome to newcomers Tony Trusk lor ‘ baby sine at the Aoki resi- | Ment Code? When and where will the te ee eee ave OCCasions : 

(B pltn), Gus Ramirez and Timothy ence. Congrats to Damon Aoki (C- interview take place? How do you get a aa They cael os neue inter. : 
A ; . 9 . c ‘O ve 2 Nie 

Swift (A pltn) pltn) and wife Deborah (MSD) on the | fepresentative: misconduct or a severe scheduling cn’ | 


and Do Poirier (C pltn). 





TASS re SRO ergs 
SE. RE ; Sh Des 
~ ete S 





What Triggers Your Rights 
Regarding a Department 
Interview Under Section 
3300 of the California 
Government Code? 


3303 Government Code provides in 


Dismissal, demotion, suspension, re- 


flict with the involved parties. 

The interview should occur at the of. 
ficer’s division, the Investigator’. 
workplace or some other site (lawyer's 
office, the League or ORS) agreed upon 
by the parties. 


school. 


Js ooh ae as 


pertinent part that any time a public How Do! Geta ] 
safety officer is under investigationand Representative? 
is subject to interrogation by his De- During normal business hours ian 
partment, that could lead to punitive can contact representatives at ORS at 

action, the interrogation is subject to (213) 485-9516 or through DHD durino 

the Public Safety Officers Procedural off hours at (213) 485-2504. ORS s 
Bill of Rights Act (3300). maintains the names and phone num- : 
Punitive action is defined as any ac- ers of local employee representatives . 
tion that may lead to: who have attended our representation - 


duction in salary, written reprimand or 
transfer for the purpose of discipline. 
The current MOU provides further 
clarification on this matter. The MOU 
provides in Article 10 the following: 


The League can be contacted at (213) 
251-4554. If you are a League member 
you are entitled to a one hour free con- 
sultation with a League attorney. If you 
are accused of criminal misconduct this 





a’ 












SWAT Challenge: (Front |-r) RJ. Cottle, Steve Gordon, Jimmy Veenstra. (Rear Ir) Mark Richardson 
Joe Witty, Troy Thomas, Lee McMillion and Lou Reyes. 


, 


Up and Out 


Congrats to LiFernando Garcia (B 
pitn). Li is making a triple chevron 
fashion statement to his sleeve and tak- 
ing up residency at West Valley as a 
sergeant. Best wishes for continued 


SUCCESS. 


Pagliotti Award 


The Jim Pagliotti award was estab- 
lished by C-Platoon to honor Officer 
James Pagliotti. Officer Jimmy 
Pagliotti was killed in the line of duty 
on June 22, 1987. Jim’s courage, pro- 
fessionalism and sense of humor were 
the personification of a Metro Man. The 
recipients are selected by vote amongst 
their peers. This year, Officers John 
Robertson and Ed Maytorena are 
honored by the men and women of C- 
Platoon. Congratulations, gentlemen. 


Introducing EyeTrac* 
Perfection in Vision Correction 
at Laser Ultra-Vision Centers. 

As an LAPD. employee, you know 
fellow workers or family members 
who are enjoying the benefits of 
LASIK vision correction. But until 
now, the natural movement of your 
eye made truly accurate laser vision 
correction difficult. With EyeTrac; a 
special beam of light watches the 
eyes’ rapid movement and adjusts a 
unique small-spot correcting laser 
over 4,000 times every second! The 
result; unprecedented visual clarity. 


convenient locations. Call 877-LUV- : 
2020 for the address nearest you. 


birth of son Conner Shigeru on August 
25th. Conner weighed in at an even 8 
pounds and 21 inches. A new baby boy 
is now home at the Holguin’s home. 
Mark and wife, Raelynn, welcomed 
baby boy #3 on July 10th, weighing in 
at 6 pounds and 5 ounces. Jacob Ryan 
joins big brothers, Brian and Mark. 
Congrats to the Fairbanks family. 
Baby 20 girl McKenzie is finally 
home. McKenzie departed the hospi- 
tal at a healthy 5.5 pounds. She will 
need the assistance of oxygen for a 
couple of months, but otherwise she is 
doing just fine. 


Set the SAIC for Further... 


In July, SWAT Officers Jimmy 
Veenstra, Lou Reyes, Lee McMillion, 
R. J. Cottle, Steve Gordon, Troy 
Thomas, Joe Witty and Mark 


Call 877-LUV-2020 and See 

What You've Been Missing. 
EyeTrac™ LASIK vision correction is now. : 
fully covered by Blue Cross Prudent 
Buyer for LAPD. and family members. : 
We invite you to call Laser Ultra-Vision : 
Centers for an appointment and free : 
consultation. Our trained staff will : 
explain the remarkable results possible: 
with the EyeTrac™ system and discuss 
your personal vision profile. 


A Neighborhood Place. 
Laser Ultra-Vision Centers have six : 


: State-of-the-Art Lasers 
Utilizing the Autonomous 
LADARVision® system, most 
accurate laser correction 
system available. 


Free Seminars 
} Call 877-LUV-2020 to attend our 
: weekly informative seminars 


Board-Certified 
sicians 
: Have confi ea reg 
: are in the hands of hig es 
: trained and experienced laser 


“The right to representation during 
the investigation and adjudication of 


misconduct and during grievance pres- 
entations is not to be denied to any 
employee. [ [ em- 


Richardson traveled to the High Sier- 
ras resort at Kirkwood Mountain and 
participated in the second annual FBI 
High Sierra SWAT Challenge. Four- 
teen teams of eight members took part 
in the event, via zodiac. The event 
lasted approximately 48 hours involv- 
ing fourteen check points at 2 and 9 
mile intervals with a few tactical exer- 
cises including rappeling, hostage res- 
cues, trip wires, land mines and a lake 
voyage via zodiac boat to an island 
clandestine narcotic lab. Phew! 


Will the Real K9-1 
Please Stand Up 


Congrats to K9 plus one handler, 
Danny Bunch. Danny has returned to 


should be your first stop. 


If we can be of assistance please con- 
tact us at ORS. Please have a safe and 


Happy Halloween/ 565 tia ton 


La agai 


the training crew and renewed his K9 
number. Nice going, Danny! 


Meanwhile, 
Back at the Barn 


Congrats to Steve Weaver. Steve is 
joining the Metro Calvary after an in- 
itial run as an element member of C 
pltn. MG, please make sure he reads 
this! Get well wishes to Lou "10-Lin- 
coln" Huett. Hurry back, Lou. Hector 
needs supervision! 

R-10girl, clear. 













en 
ata 2 -" 


| Ifyou are nota 


Dei 
=A U B > 2 
IW LD wD ; = 
- —_— a et ‘, eR : “Ts 


A 
Pez, 
= tue ms See aie 
La 4 I B - , “let ~~ ’ aS te 
7 S ell ie 
Pe 4 % I HAN LN ~ 
. ! Nie a _= m \ \ 


> 







memberofthe The Thin Blue Line 





=~ 

- 2 
= 
ee 





ae, 
an 
.. 
> a 
Lay =e. 
Z > 
2 ee “Es 
~~ 2, ' 
rg te 
Rd Fi 
~ 


1308 W. 8th Street 


Ss 7 
. 


——n te De BS og hay 






, LAPPL and wish'to receive 84 Stre 

| your own copy of this monthly. - “Los Angeles, CA 90017 
newspaper, please mail this 2. “.. 

| form & $15.00 (U'S. dollars: «Make check payable to: 

| only) for a one-year subscrip= ~ The Thin Blue Line. 

| tion to: ASST 


vision physicians. 


Discover the EyeTrac’ Difference Today! 


5 ‘ hy a 4 y - | . > | > Fi 
nas Ni ONYON) 
f . ; — « -» 
. a , 
y , s ss | . & ] . S ; 4 p 
; ’ gg a i j ’ — — 7 Le. = | 
- ‘~~ « . . = { - Deel 
sf | fs —_— Se 
_— = 


Laser Una Vision Centers ae members of the Laser Vision Intute. (ip) 





Page 26 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





| 
| 
) 















LAPPL members 


Get Connected., 


Now LAPPL members have more choices 


to fit your phone usage needs. Call 
Tele-Cell today for information. 


Our representatives can assist 
you in selecting the calling 
plan that will provide you with 
the services you need at a price 


you can afford. Visit our website to 
see this month’s special. 


People will talk. 
800-366-2222. 











FREE! FREE! FREE! 


One 


TE CELLULAR SERVICE BY OCT. 15 AND 
= A CAR ADAPTER AND LEATHER CASE! 











AT&T Digital PCS Plans 
to fit every need. 


| ik Call today to get connected 


800-366-2222 
(TAL CELLULAR PCS 800-366-22 





lit www.telecell.com 


Authorized 
werent { ° Qo Nei@) 
stat [)y | AKG Melee GA J Ov Dealer 
Bre LvKe Leb Ile! ~ h 


; 





mum Fi ibility wi individual party contracting service O.A.C. 
' ire am nancial responsibility will be the sole responsibility of the in 
withou . Aaehtin her icti **"One-Rate™ i tales One-Rate. No long distance or 
Prune oe. (as of fiore are subject 10 change with t notice aaron portngtes establishment fee applied. Some restrictions may apply. “*“One Rate™ compatible. {50 s g 
s op ne whe lax, shipph hen details. 
re pnstls apap we “ chusdo tax, shipping oF 1 literature for complete 
Lapdgrnand trite to supply on hand a é . poh excluded.) Reed contract and produc 
i Wid # 
Heatiieny arya’ (" ADoriastie CARS ORY 





















































4 . + 3 i Photos by Dennis P Zine 
LAPD Honor Guard opened the ceremony at th £1999 Downed Officer Support Ride, . | —_———n 


P n August 22nd, 1,000 motorcycles and | 204) 


supporters participated in the 4th Annua| 
Downed Officer Ride. The ride started at the 
Valencia Town Center Mall and began with a post- 
ing of colors by the LAPD Honor Guard and the 
LASD Mounted Honor Guard. This was followed by 
an invocation by Chaplain Steve Hillman and the 
following poem written and read by the ride’s 
founder, Sgt. Bob Norlemann, LASD Santa Clarita 
Station: 






































































The Peace Officer’s Memorial 

As I sit and listen to the names being read, 

I often wonder, why didn’t the bad ones die in their 
stead. 

I stand and watch as the survivors walk by, 

the families left behind can do nothing but cry. 

One hundred fifty-six names are posted this year, 
each one a story, each story brings tears. 

I can't help but notice, the children I see, 

some so very small, not even up to my knee! 

They are so young, it’s so sad to think, 

from their parent they'll never see, a smile, or a wink. 
Our heroes die younger each year, so it seems, 

we lay them to rest, beneath so green. 

We must do something, I don’t know what just yet, 
but I can guarantee one thing, we will never forget! 


1 Brunzell LAPD Chaplin Steve Hillman, Do them a favor, each night before you Test 
Sheriff Lee Baca and Deputy Chief remember in your prayers, COPS ARE THE BEST! 
Maurice Moore. ee : 


Sheriff Leroy Baca, Deputy Chief Maurice 






~ League 
Director 
2 vy _° Dennis 
LAPD Motor Officers Mike Bissett and Daryl a > ere P Zine 
Hinson partieipated in the Downed Officer —"} aa with 
Support Ride along with Debbie Bissett and Fe ag = 4 KZA 
Ron Michel fie : ms F radio. 






hip, made 
possible by proceeds from past rides, to Russell 
Elkins. Russell’s father was LAPD Officer John 
Elkins, who worked at Parker Center prior to his 
untimely death three years ago. 
The riders left the mall and went on the beautiful 
90-mile poker run, ending up at the Rye Canyon 
West film facility back in Valencia. The riders 
received a lunch catered by Chuy’s Mesquite Broil- 
er Restaurant, a live band and lots of vendors. A 
great time was had by all. 
This year the ride grossed approximately $28,000 
before expenses, and a portion of the proceeds will 
be donated to the Family Support Group and Sur- 
| | vivor’s in Partnership. The Downed Officer Support 
Specialized “ _ * , “s ; Ride has been formed as a nonprofit foundation this 
Enforcement Sec- ks) Gm ~ year. As such, plans are to help families of police 
tion Officer Mario i | officers, deputies and firefighters anywhere in 
@ruz and soon-to- | | a =< i Southern California, when a death occurs not only 
kg be wife. . # a ee — in the line of duty, but from natural causes or acci- 
dental death while in the service of the respective 
department. The foundation will be sending several 
survivors to grief counseling seminars and intends 
to specialize in children’s grief issues as well as 
counseling adult survivors. If you are aware of any- 
one needing these services, you can contact Set. 
Norlemann at 661-255-1121. 
Next year’s ride will be on August 20, 2000, and 
will be the fifth year of the event. Plan to attend if you 
can; it is a memorable experience. “ 





Wendy 





LAPD 
Officer 
Phil Dud- 
ley and 
wife. 


LAPD family Support Group Members with KZLA radio host Wendy. 


a 
7 i 
i’ 
ck 


Page 28 / The Thin Blue Line / October '99 








; 
| 
‘ ; 7 
{ - 
Photos by Ted Hunt 
Se eee oe ee 
. ee POLICE PATROL 





October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 29 








by Alley Cat 
Harbor Division 


Summer has come and gone with no 
major incidents to report out of Harbor. 
Most of the vacations are over and every- 
one 1s back to work. There are a few tid- 
bits | would like to throw out to past 
employees of this quiet little division. 

Harbor Division had its annual picnic 
at the Harbor Range. I would like to 
thank the responsible persons who 
worked so hard to put on this fine event. 
Sgt. Kellie Castillo, Sgt. Rich Harper, 
Barry Telis, John Urban, Jeff Brouwer. 
Kara Silverstein, and last but the most 
important, Richard Henry, Father Floyd 
Henry, and brother Floyd Henry for all 
the fine lip-smacking BBQ food. Art 
[barra has been there for the last three 
years and fighting the heat by assisting 
with all the hot coals of the BBQ pit. 
Ladies and gentlemen you all did a bang 
job and a big thank you goes out to all of 
you from Harbor personnel. Oh yes, | 
forgot, Harbor Detectives, with the help 
from a lot of youngsters, beat Harbor 
Patrol in the annual softball game. 

Sgt. Gary Bean and Fritz McDowell 
thought it would be a good idea to relate 





with Central Traffic Division. They 
entered their old cars in the C.T.D. Cops 
for Tots Car Show. Gary has a super- 
clean ‘56 Chevy Belair and Fritz had his 
‘68 Mustang and ‘72 Chev El Camino. 
Once again, C.T.D. did a fantastic job of 
putting on a car show at the LAPD 
Academy (old one) that drew a crowd of 
thousands. There were hundreds of cars, 
all years, all models and people from all 
walks of life. If one gets the chance next 
year to just stop and visit at the show, it 
is well worth the time spent. Of course, 
this is for car and motorcycle buffs. 
Transfers have slowed somewhat to 
the people that matter—the real street 
cops. We lost a few young, new, P-2s: W. 
Joyce and G. Bush, who are en route to 
Pacific Division. Eric Peterson bailed to 
South Bureau. We were really lucky and 
got two young sergeants in: S. Moody 
and R. Plows. The fresh bodies from the 
Academy are: J. Coyle, S. Laule, J. 


DSF ba ae Sh ts 





Cops for Tots ... 


Lawrence, and F, Pajaro. We even lost an 
old PSR, Cindy Curti to WLA. Good 
luck to all of you in your new endeavors. 

I still can’t figure out what's going on 
with all the sick, lame, and lazy on 
LAPD. We have 19 people off with vari- 
ous illnesses and injuries. Someone 
please enlighten me how we can have 
this many off from one division? Is it the 
physical conditioning of these people or 


just malingering? | would hope not. 





Imagine life without relying on glasses or contact lenses. The freedom of waking up and seeing the clock, skiing, 


swimming...everyday life in the L.A.P.D. without the hassle and limitations of glasses and contacts. 





8 ne el — 8 — 0 ee VV Dl  -W —0 








Photos by Gar) Bean 


Mavbe the rest of us better get on ¢ 
stick and start taking better care of ou 
selves. To those of you who are off with 
a legitimate illness, I wish you a speedy 
and full recove§ry. } 

We have one last retirement for a 
while at Harbor Division: Dickie 
Simmons. His part is October 15, 1999. 
at the Sheraton Hotel in San Pedro 
Contact Harbor Detectives for further 
info or tickets. 

[ just received information this morn- 
ing that a retired employee of Harbor 
Division passed away. Roger Church (P- 
3), #14700, passed away on August 28, 
1999. while in the hospital. He had a 
heart attack, after contacting a fungal 
pneumonia. Roger retired a few years 
back from Harbor Desk. He was very 
instrumental in keeping the inside of this 
station in one piece. He was liked by all, 
even with his grumpy old attitude. I send 
my regards to his family and to those of 
us who knew him for so many years. 

Please be careful and street smart out 
there. Remember, you and your partner 
are what counts the most. 


o, 
“~~ 


is G3 Gy i FF 
| = 1 1 ZZ 









Of Gy 4a BI) 


v 
OZNRHVC t 
E 
RKCSZHVD h 
SDKHORCV 


HOCZRKDSVN t 


NZCOSKDVRN 
HCOSKOVANHZ 


= — => by 





LASIK is an advanced laser vision correction procedure offeri 
patients are back to work the next day! And, more important 
results. Dr. Manger has performed LASIK on hundreds of L. 

never thought possible. See the difference LASIK may ma 


ng almost immediate recovery.. 
ly, in the hands of Dr. Manger, 





The doctor you choose makes a real difference. 


In your line of work, your vision is critical. The finest surgical skills will give you the best result...so choose the best 
Dr. Manger is a leader in the field of laser vision correction and has developed LASIK techniqu ; 


. . es resulting i 
of the best success rates in the nation. Let Dr. Manger's experience, dedication and knowledge monaco a 


° JAY SOARES, Police Officer 


“Before having the LASIK procedure, | couldn't even see the big “E“on Laser vision correction was so simple and painless! It! 



















hee 


A.P.D. and their families, allowing eh RAPS 
ke at California's leading laser visi6n core 


Tr awe lt CUO FTlUCU ST ATUCRASC 


Tn 


the eye chart. Glasses and contacts were always a hassle, especially after o ts nee 5° without dealing with contacts. Ino longe lave 10 WC é 
a long day on the job. Now after LASIK, my vision is fantastic. I'd ee oe 1 on POSINg aniofficer/safety issue, like co s fallin 
recommend this procedure and Dr. Manger to anyone!” Or Biasses getting knocked off while on the job. I'd do it agai 
minute and would recommend Saddleback Eye Center to ai ‘ 
CALL 1 (800) 98-SIGHT TODAY FOR FREE CONSULTATIONS [MM 1 a.P.D. Officers can reece | 
Watch an actual procedure. Speak with some of our patients, including many of your 1: \ 
L.A.P.D. co-workers! Find out which procedure is right for you and get all your questions complimentary, Sas ata t 







answered. Complimentary Consultations can be scheduled Monday through Friday. 


NOW COVERED BY BLUE CROSS PRUDENT BUYER 
FOR L.A.P.D. AND FAMILY MEMBERS | 










= SADDLEBACK Certified by the American Board of Eye Su 
EYE CENTER 


23161 Moulton Pk 
An Ophthalmology Medical Group 


© 1997 Saddleback Eye Center 


http://www.saddlebackeye.com 


Page 30 / The Thin Blue Line / October '99 





Charles C. Manger Ill, M.D. 


Ot 
(800) 98-SIGHT * (800) 987-4448 » (949) Say 3053 





hotel the evening of 
their procedure 


(949) 951-4644 

















by Officer Robert Peters, Tunnel Rat 
Transit Group 





Greetings fellow Tunnel Rats and 
Exhaust Eaters. Sorry we missed last 
month’s reporter, but we have a new 
guy (that’s me) doing the reporter now, 
and he wasn’t fast enough on the draw 
to get last month’s article out prior to 
deadline. My apologies and it won't 
happen again . . . often. 

Well, unfortunately summer is over 
and the cold months of winter are fast 
approaching. I hope all of you made it 
to the Protective League’s annual Rag- 
ing Waters party. We should have 
plenty of pictures from that for next 
month’s piece. 


B2V 2K 


And speaking of rapidly approaching 
seasons: the last Baker to Vegas race of 
the twentieth century will take place 
during April of the year 2000, and Tran- 
sit Group will be there. 

Co-Captains Mike Hall (P-2) and 
Nathan Kouri (P-2) have decided that 
TRG will be competing in the divi- 
sional category, and we are taking aim 
at some of the "Big Threat" divisions 
such as Rampart, 77th, and Metropoli- 
tan Divisions. Okay, maybe Metro will 
have to wait until next year for us to 
unseat them, but we’re thinking posi- 


¥ 





which we have held since its inception 
[wo years agomBut, we have to get to 
B2V 2K first, and our fearless leaders 
have already begun the necessary beg- 
ging, and the shameless merchandising 
required to raise money for our running 
team. 

A barbecue was held on August 25th. 
Mike and Nathan cleverly located the 
feast right next to Central Jail so that 
many of the deputies who will be run- 
Ning against us aided in our fund-rais- 
ing efforts. 

Thanks to our captains (assisted by 
part-time chef, Tony Ochoa) we man- 
aged to raise $500 for the team to buy 
shoes for our feet and Band-Aids for 
our blisters. Future fund-raiser feasts 
will be held every pay day at Transit 
Bus Division parking lot on Bauchet 
Street at Vignes Street. All are wel- 
Come to attend. 


Hostage Crisis Looms 
at TRD! 


In other news, Lt. Davis, who 
Strangely enough is proud to be a Bay 
fa native, has proudly displayed a 
San Francisco "City Limits" sign in the 
"atch commander’s office for some 
ime now, Sadly, upon reporting for 






is the LAPD/LASO transit trophy _ 


duty the-other morning the good lieu- 
fenant was shocked and dismayed t6 
find that his beloved Sign was missing 
from its usual place on the wall behind 
his desk. 

A ransom note and a Strange video 
tape identifying the kidnappers only as 
“The People’s Choice" was found in its 
place. I understand that the FB] has 


been notified and is looking into the 
matter. 


Sure they are... 

Lt. Davis is quoted as Saying, "I never 
thought it would happen to me." There 
is nO word as to whether the good lieu- 
tenant intends to pay the ransom or wait 
it out. Luckily, I understand the kidnap- 
pers accept major credit cards. personal 
checks and small items in barter. But 


they don’t take American Express.) . 
go figure. 


Condolences 


Our condolences go out to Officer 
Guadalupe Nufiez and her family on 
the loss of her father, Rito Nufez. 
Several officers from TRD along with 
Cdr. Zimmon attended the funeral as 
a show of support for Officer Nufiez 
who is new to TRD. 


New Beginnings 
On the happier side of life’s cycle, 
TRD would like to congratulate Offi- 
cer Bowens and his wife on the birth 
of their son, Zion. Zion came into the 
world on Friday, August 13, 1999, at 
0400 hours. Mother, son and proud 
pops are doing fine. 
"Hi’s and Bye’s" 

TRD would also like to welcome its 
newcomers: Officer Guadalupe Nufiez 
from VTD, P-2 Robert Burbois, and 
P-2 Robert Peters from 77th Street, 
and Capt. Wasson, our new C.O., pre- 
viously of Uniform Support Division. 








= entered Se ae 








mot d P-3 S 2rgio Ss } 
who migrated from LAPD 
lice, then MTA back to his roots, was 
recently awarded a P-3 spot at South- 


west Patrol Division. Congrats, Sergio! 


Until Next Time... 


Okay, that’s about it from Transit 
Group. Let me just take the time to say 
that being the new guy on the block, 
both as a tunnel rat and as the writer for 
the divisional reporter, that I am happy 
to be here. After 2 DPs at "the Rail," I 
am proud to say that this division just 
gets better and better. We are con- 
stantly bringing in “new blood" in the 
form of our usual influx of new P-2 

dawgs off the wheel as well as some of 
the more “tenured” officers from 
around the department who are anxious 
to try something new and different. 

Like the Marine Corps, we are al- 
ways looking for a few good men (and 
women) to add to our family down here. 
If you are interested in a “specialized” 
assignment that offers good training 
and advancement opportunities, then 
put together a 15.88 and contact Lt. 
Davis at 922-3550. And, hey, let him 
know if you see his sign, huh? 


- 


>, 
“~ 





For Info and Ad Rates 
Call... 


Mark Deitch & Assoc., Inc. 
($18) 558-1010 
















by Floyd Toledo 
Hollywood Division 


Only in Hollywood 


From the "has this ever happened to 
you" files. On a bright, sunny summer 
day in Los Angeles you get a subpoena 
to appear in court. You ask your fellow 
detectives if you can borrow one of 
those fancy, nobody-but-the-bad-guys- 
can-tell-it’s-the-police undercover 
cars. After that fails, you go to the kit 
room and ask Officer McGowin for 
keys to a black & white patrol vehicle. 
SO you go to court and put another bad 
guy behind bars. You go to the parking 
structure where you parked your police 
vehicle, in compliance with the Chief’ s 
orders. You drive back to your station 
and hear a radio broadcast of a stolen 
police vehicle. A quick check reveals 
that the vehicle that you are in is not the 
one that Mac loaned you earlier. So you 
turn yourself in to Det. Binford of the 
Hollywood Auto Detail and demand 
credit for one "recovered stolen." 


(7 

Ins, Outs & Ups 

Did you see who was on the transfer 
list for DP #9? Moving into our neigh- 
borhood from the Chief’s office came 
Capt. I D. Baca, He will lead our "High 
Profile Case Team.” If you don’t be- 
lieve that then just ask Det. Gasparian 
and Det. Trainee Dennis McNeal about 


2 uw = . 2 > ie} 
+ 1 — ox Bete 
¥ 





rales. 

Leaving was Capt. 1 S. Diaz, who 
completed his probation and left for the 
glamour of IAG. DHD has Russian- 
speaking P-2 L. Kroyan, Newton re- 
ceived P-2 S. Walsh, and Van Nuys 
welcomed P-2 K. Kelley. 


Detective Honored 


Det. Gevork Shamlyan is an 1 1-year 
veteran of the department. He is cur- 
rently assigned to the sex crimes unit. 
His abilities in the investigation of sex 
crimes are recognized not only by the 
rank and file of Hollywood Area but 
also by colleagues in other related dis- 
ciplines, such as the Sexual Assault 
Medical Examiners and Sexual Assault 
Prosecutors. Det. Shamlyan is known 
to volunteer for every department 
school that is offered and he dedicates 


SS Sa — NS TE oe 


ae = i -« & 


himself to excellence through contin 
ued training. He is trilingual, speaking 
English, Russian, and Armenian. He 
provides expert translation in Arme- 
nian for the Department, a great benefit 
for the Armenian community. 

His dedication to his investigations 
was demonstrated when he investigated 
a serial rapist that had been preying on 
women on the west side of Sunset 
Boulevard in late 1998. Det. Shamlvan 
carried that case through from the start 
to the finish with a successful prose- 
cution. That sexual predator now 
faces a sentence of 41 years in prison. 
Shamlyan is a valuable asset to Holly- 
wood Detectives and has demon- 
strated his potential to be one of the 
top investigators in the city. The com- 
munity of Hollywood and the citizens 
of Los Angeles are fortunate to have 
such a dedicated and competent detec- 
tive. 

Det. Shamlyan’s efforts have been 
recognized and it is with great pride that 
Det. Shamlyan has been selected as the 
Hollywood operations Support Divi- 
sion Employee of the Second Quarter 
1999. 


Patrol Officer Honored 


P.O. II] Nathan Banry is a five-year 
veteran of the Los Angeles Police De- 
partment. The past two years he has 
been assigned to the Hollywood Patrol. 
Banry has recently been assigned to the 
Hollywood footbeat detail due to his 
outstanding communications skills, te- 
nacity, dedication, and ability to solve 
complex problems. The Hollywood 
footbeat is a high profile and name rec- 
Ognition assignment where incidents 
frequently become front page news. 
The challenges of this assignment are 
many, with the influx of tourists from 
all over the world, the migration of run- 
away kids, the large homeless popula- 
tions loitering and begging for money. 


_ Officer Banry is the kind of officer who 


can easily communicate with these di- 
verse groups. When a major problem 
arises, Banry is the recognized problem 
solver. He recently streamlined a book- 
ing process of Hollywood Boulevard 
arrests that enabled patrol officers to 
return to field activities in a very short 
time. Banry, as a training officer, in- 
structs his probationers in the fine art of 
making quality observations and arrest. 
He will instruct them on how to solve 
problems permanently. Officer Banry 
projects a very good image to the many 
people who see and meet him on the 
boulevard. Banry can often be seen 
talking and assisting tourists, answer- 
ing questions and giving them direc- 
tions. 

It is with great pleasure that Officer 
Nathan Banry is selected and honored 
as the Hollywood Patrol Officer of the 
Quarter 1999. 


\ 
“9 


More Divisional Reporter on next page 


ulbry j 
Photography & Video Productions 


Your Professional Wedding Provider Since 1984 


Special Savings to LAPD Officers & Los Angeles City Employees 


Member 
Professional Photographers of Los Angeles County 
Wedding & Event Videographers Association, International 
American Videographers Association 


(310)375-6107 


(800) 843-3681 


e-mail: aubrys4u@gte.net 
www.aubrysproductions.com 


Owned By Retired L.A. County Deputy Sheriff 















by Tony Valadez 
West Valley Division 





Hello again everyone! As I write this, 
the Labor Day weekend and another 
gorgeous Southern California summer 
come to a close. I hope everyone had a 
great summer. We can only hope that 
the transition to Y2K is as pleasant. 


Local Heroes in Blue 


Many congratulations and thanks gO 
out to four of West Valley’s own. On 
September 15, the LAPD Medal of 
Valor was awarded to P-3 Joe Kaylin, 
P-3 Andy Azodi, P-3 Kevin Foster 
(now at Foothill Div), and P-2 Jude 
Bella (OK, he’s on “temporary" loan to 
Training Division). They were recog- 
nized for their bravery, self sacrifice. 
and teamwork, while attempting to save 
a downed Glendale P.D. detective. All 
of us are busting buttons with pride. A 
well-earned "Good job!" to all of you. 


The WVAL Stork Report 


Officer Robert Surman and his 
lovely wife announced the birth of their 
new baby boy. Andrew Philip Surman, 


all 7.0 pounds of him, came into their 
lives on September 2, 1999. Officer 
Surman, wife, and baby are all doing 
fine. Congratulations. 


Commendable 
Copper Capers?? 

On August 22, 1999, at approxi- 
mately 1700 hours, PM Watch Officers 
P-3+1 Sabrina Kuhn and her partner, 
P-2 Dennis Mesa were on routine pa- 
trol, in the area of 4700 Lindley Avenue 
(probably en route to a C-30), when 
they were flagged down by a very dis- 
traught WVAL citizen. The upset citi- 
zen informed the officers that her cat 
(yes, you read right, her cat) was stuck 
in a 60 foot cypress tree for several 
days. A crowd of concerned neighbors 
began to form around the officers. The 
crowd of neighbors confirmed the re- 
port, stating that the cat had been 
“howling” for days and nights. LAFD 
was unable to locate the cat on prior 
occasions and other city entities would 
not respond. Officers Kuhn and Mesa 
conducted an intensive search of the 
area for the cat, with negative results. 
Officer Kuhn. being the dedicated SLO 
that she is, returned with Officer Mesa at 
2300 hours, to continue the search. They 
could hear the cat’s pleas for help, but 
could not locate it. Being a good officer, 
that actually reads the training and spe- 
cial orders given to her at roll call, Offi- 
cer Kuhn left her business card with the 
visibly distraught WVAL citizen. 

Officer Kuhn and Mesa returned to 
the location on August 23 (after receiv- 
ing additional calls at the station from 


citizens) and finally observed the weak- 
ened cat atop a 40 foot high tree. The 
officers again attempted to contact varl- 
ous city entities, to no avail, as neigh- 
bors rallied to the cat’s aid. Officers 
Kuhn and Mesa were finally able to 
contact LAFD, who sent in the hook- 
and-ladder. Betsy the cat was finally 
rescued after a 6-day ordeal, to the re- 
lief of her very grateful owners. Offi- 
cers Kuhn and Mesa are to be 
commended for their concern and rev- 
erence for life, their persistence, com- 
passion, responsiveness to community 
needs, unwavering commitment to ac- 
complishing their mission, and their 
ability to cut through the city’s red tape 
and actually get something done. And 
who says nothing happens in the Val- 
ley! Good job guys! 


The Welcome Mat 


All of us at WVAL would like to 
welcome in Sgt. Whitman, Sgt. Gar- 
cia, P-2 Renzelman, P-2s Rothman 
and Castro, along with our newest 
Academy graduate P-ls Armijo and 
Beidle. 


A Fond Farewell 


A teary goodbye goes out to Sgt. Ar- 
melin (OVB-COBRA), P-2 Kip Jack- 
son (our newest poster child at EODD), 
P-2 Francisco Diaz (NWTN), P-2 
Robert Sieger (OVB), along with P-2s 
Phillip Tate and Terry Turner 
(VTD). We wish all of you good luck 
in your new assignments. Don’t forget 
to stop in and visit. 


Up the Ladder 


Two more of WVAL’s best were re- 
cently promoted. Sgt.-1 Cindy Benes is 
now Lt. Benes, now assigned to HOBK 
AM Watch. P-3 Dennis Hammonds is 


now Sgt. Hammonds at Pacif 
Congratulations to both of you + 
have a T/O now? 

Congratulations also go out tg p 
Donovan Lyons and Chris Warren 
who are our newest P-3 CRAS} Orr 


cers. Go get ‘em guys 


A Personal Opinion 

Sgt.-2 Paul Sciarrillo came ;, 
Watch roll call to discuss Leggy, 
ness. He gave a very detailed an, 
mative review of 
up-and-coming in the League 
have any League-related questioy 
the League phone number (2 
4554), or flag down Set. Sciarrij, 
any of the other WVAL League 4 
gates. As an additional reming 1 
League directors need OUR inp), 
prioritize what to fight for during +, 
upcoming contract negotiations The 
are OUR voice. How are they to x an 
what WE want if WE don’t te}} them 
League surveys are going out ip the 
mail, if you haven’t received on 
ready. Take the time, fill it out. and 
send it back to the League! The upcom- 
ing contract negotiations are important 
to the city as well as to us. If you want 
a raise and/or CWS, pension-based pay. 
or anything else negotiated into the 
contract, you need to tell the League 
Oh, by the way, the Compressed Work 
Schedule (hint-hint: 3/12) is a good 
thing (based on personal experience). 
Make your voice heard! 

Well, that’s all I have this month. 
Remember, the Blue Line box is in the 
Area office, if you have anything you 
want placed into the article. 

This is 10A57. Roger on continued 
patrol. 


inf 


. | 
Winall 


OFal 








by Ruben Rodriguez 
Hollenbeck Division 





Happy first month of fall to you and 
your loved ones. May you have a very 
haunting Halloween night! 


Congratulations 


I want to offer my most sincere con- 
gratulations to my good friend, John 
"Johnny-O" Lopez, who recently wed 
his sweetheart. On August 29, 1999, 
John walked his beautiful bride, Tina, 
to "the altar" in a lovely garden cere- 
mony. I was fortunate enough to have 
been invited and attended the event. 
John and Tina, I wish you both a life- 
time of happiness and may nothing but 
the best come your way. 






INCLUDES RT AIR - HOTEL & SHUTTLE 
PI ONLY citccscccarcscseseoes $219 


SINCE 1976 


Page 32 /The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


f47Sunquest. 


Hawai Specials 


Walkiki 7 Night Package from...$399 Maul 7 Night Package from...$559 


HOTEL PACKAGES ARE PRICED PER PERSON DOUBLE - FOR SELECT DATES - SOME TAXES NOT INCLUDED 


For More Specials See: www.marina-pacifica-travel.com 


Marina Paeifiea Travel 


AN OFFICER (LAPD) OWNED AGENCY 
562-594-8806 714-842-0955 1-800-244-8238 
CST#2007452-10 


More Congratulations 

Speaking of weddings, I also extend 
hearty congratulations to Erika Galle- 
gos, who was also recently married. 
Erika tied the knot with Mr. Joseph 
Phillip Rodriguez on Saturday, July 1, 
1999, in a ceremony held in Pasadena. 
Congratulations and best wishes for a 
wonderful future. 





The happy newlyweds, Mr. and Mrs. 


John Lopez. 





INCLUDES RT AIR - HOTEL & CAR 
AIR) ONLY eiteersstessesteeeses $249 


















New married couple Erika and Joseph 
Rodriguez. 


Pat on the Back 


I wish to acknowledge Josh Martinez, 
son of our very own property officer, 
Robert "Yoda" Martinez. Josh was a 
member of the Covina baseball team that 


Robert and son Josh Martinez. 


recently captured the Pony League 
World Series Championship by beating 
Chinese-Taipei. Bob, obviously a proud 
father, stated that this is the first time that 
the cit of Covina produced a champion- 
ship team since 1975, Bob also stated that 
the last time a California team was 


crowned as champions w fas 13 yea 
in 1986. This is obviously a great 






Josh and all of his teammates. Josh. dow? 


forget your old friends when you getto § 


“—_ 
v 


the Major Leagues. 


Update 


According to PM Watch Commander 
Lt. Mariani, this year’s summer picnic, 
held at the Police Academy, was a great 
Success. A great time was had by all at 
the annual family event. A special thanks 
to PSR Linda Ortega for her participa- 
tion in helping to put the event together. 


Welcome 


We wish to extend a warm Hollenbeck 
welcome to Lt. C. Benes, who promotes 
in from West Valley. Lt. Benes is now the 
AM Watch Commander. We also say hi 
and welcome to Det. V. Corella, joining 
us from South Bureau Homicide. A wel- 
come hand also goes out to P-2 R. San- 
tos, in from Wilshire, and P-2 M. Rubin, 
coming to us from West L.A. We have 
four new recruit officers in from the Po- 
lice Academy. They are P-1s O. Castillo, 
C. Jones, A. Schubert, and T. Walch. 


So Long 


We say goodbye this month to M. 
Reyes, who promotes to P-3 and moves 
on to TD. We also say good luck to R. 
Ferrer, who also promoted to P-3 and is 
now assigned to West Valley. Con- 
gratulations to both of you on your pro- 
motions. E. Chavez is now working the 
Streets of Central Division, while 
Wendy Geraci is now a gunfighter at 
Southwest. K. Lau is assigned to TBD 
and B. Kanuit is now keeping the citi- 
zens of Van Nuys safe. Good luck to all 
of you in your respective new assign- 
ments. 


Que Paso? 


This month’s salute goes out to my 
good friend, Cynthia Gonzales. who re- 
cently returned to Hollenbeck Patrol. 
Cindy, good to have you back! 

~ 











7 US 


42meettmpo7d 3 


a f= 





; 
; 
, 











by Cheri Roberts 
Pacific Division 





RTC Assistance 


Sgt. Pete Lopez was recently in- 
volved in an attempted traffic stop, 
turned pursuit. The young driver of the 
unreported stolen Chevy Suburban 
failed to stop at a stop sign, and when 
Sgt. Lopez lit him up, the chase was on. 
But due to the inexperience of the 
driver, he crashed into a house and took 
off on foot. Sgt. Lopez, while in his 
black & white, continued to follow the 
suspect, who began to run up a "hilly" 
street. Then suddenly, appearing in his 
rear VieW mirror, was a recruit class on 
arun. How convenient! So the two P.T. 
instructors (Officer Barrios and Offi- 
cer Marshall) came running up along- 
side of Sgt. Lopez, looking at him like, 
"You want us to get him?" As soon as 
he gave the YEAH! sign, they took off 
after the suspect, catching up to him and 
taking him down just like in the movies. 
There were three lessons learned on this 
day. To the suspect, don’t run from the 
police when you’re near the RTC, you 
won't outrun Officer Barrios or Mar- 
shall! To the recruit class, this is an 
example of a foot pursuit and take down 
perfectly maneuvered. And to all offi- 
cers, this is an example of doing any- 
thing to get there before your 
supervisor actually has to get out and 
chase the suspect themselves. Ha! Ha! 

P.S. Thanks for your help! 





wit 

Setup by Det. Chuck Worthen, where 
Patrol personnel bowled against Sup- 
port. It was amazing to see just how 
many people showed up with their own 
ball and shoes! Due to the odd number 
of people, Chuck took the total scores 
and divided them by the number of peo- 
ple bowling for each side . . . or some- 
thing like that. He claims that 
Detectives won by about three pins, but 
we're not sure about his adding! None- 
theless, a great time was had by all, and 
we want a rematch! 


with a CA county, city, or agency 


tion filing. 


1 0 0) oe Oy OL OY IYO. 


erage level as at time of retirement; 
gram; Flex Spending Plan (pre-tax d 
sation; Credit Union membership & more. 


a peace officer 
REQUIREMENTS: must be currently employed as 
for a minimum of 1 year & possess a 


Basic POST Certificate. Must attach a copy ° 


FOR A DETAILED JOB BROCHURE & 
CITY’S 24-HOUR JOB LINE, (310) 607- 
cation w/City of El Segundo Hum 
Main Street, El Segundo, CA 9024: 





Day at the Races: 
October 30th 


We would like to let everyone know 
about our exciting upcoming event on 
Saturday, October 30th. We are putting 
on a family-filled fun day at Santa 
Anita Raceway. In addition to the “po- 
nies," there will be a moon bounce, a 
Caricature artist, pony rides, a face 
painter, and more for the kids. We will 
be in the middle section of the racetrack 
and will be providing a barbecue lunch 
for everyone! It should be a lot of fun. 
Bring your whole family! For tickets: 
See Judith in Admin, (310) 202-4571, 
or any CRO officer, (310) 202-4524. 
Prices are: Adults 16+ - $20, kids 6-15 
- $10, under 6 free! See you at the races 


Movin’ In 


We would like to welcome the fol- 
lowing people to Pacific Area: Sgt. 
Brooks in from LAS, Sgt. Campbell 
over from SW, Sgt. Hammonds in 
from WVAL, Set. Feliciano over from 
77th, Sgt. Aduato over from WIL, Sgt. 
Glodery back from LAX, Officer 





PYRE ‘ ; NS 
Paul Williams shows his 


little girl the proper 
form to throw (or roll) a strike. 





Judith Gorum checks Chuck Worthen’s math 
during our mini bowling competition. 


LATERAL POLICE OFFICER 
$4,394 - $5,341 per month (incl. 9% PERS) 


(applications accepted on continuous basis) 


Are you an officer seeking recognition and support in a challenging 
work environment? Then why “start over” when the ESPD respects 
& understands the needs of lateral officers & can offer you an innov- 
ative lateral benefits package. ESPD provides a $2,000 Transfer _ 
Bonus & may allow you to transfer up to 960 sick leave hrs.; vacation 
accrual based on your years of sworn law enforcement experience; 
special assignment pay up to $210 mo.; city provided uniforms and 
safety equipment plus $325/yr. uniform allowance; 96 holiday hrs. 
paid annually; educational incentive pay up to 18%; 
reimbursement; physical fitness incentive; City paid PERS retire- 
ment plan (2% at 50, single highest year); $429/mo. toward PERS 


100% educational 


Health Insurance Program (increases to $456/mo eff. 1/1/2000); paid 
family optical/dental/life; paid retiree medical insurance at same cov- 


$4,000 interest-free PC loan pro- 
ollar program); deferred compen- 


f cert. at time of applica- 


APPLICATION, CALL 
2220. Must submit appli- 
an Resources Department, 350 

§, (310) 322-4670, ext. 204. 















SANTA ANITA PARK 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30TH 


FUN FOR THE ENTIRE FAMITLY! 


YOU'LL ENJOY: 
“A FULL DAY OF GREAT THOROUGHBRED RACING 
“FUN ENTERTAINMENT FOR THE KIDS 
“BARBECUE LUNCH WITH ALL THE TRIMMINGS 
: Pe Pas 


PRICE INCLUDES PARKING: 
ADULTS 16 & UP § 20:00 
KIDS 6-sF  $f/0.00 
KIDS UNDER 6 FREE 










i] GATES OPEN AT 11:00 _ 
FIRST RACE AT (2:30 


in their future endeavors: LT Regina 
Scott, who recently promoted and went 
to SE; newly promoted Sgt. Pete 
Casey, who went to SW; Sgt 2 Islas, 
who went to IAG; newly promoted Sgt. 
2 Pettway, who went to WIL; Sgt. 
Beatty, who went to VNYS (exactly 
how much time did you spend here at 
Pacific?); Det. Scott, who went to 77th; 
newly promoted P-3 Durell, who went 
to CID; Officers Armstead (congrats!) 
and Dobine, who went to DHD; Officer 
Cannon, who went to ND; Officer Ba- 
con, who went to NEWT; Officer Dom- 
inguez, who went to SE: Officer 
Garcia, who went to TBD; Officer 
Ramirez, who went to TBD: and Offi- 


cer Hodson, who went to WIL. Good 
luck! 


Perry in from SE, Officer Vasquez in 
from 77th, Officers Lopez and Wilson 
in from DEV, Officers Bush and Joyce 
over from HARB, Officer Holguin in 
from NE, Officer Elder in from WIL, 
Officer Eguez over from WVAL, Offi- 
cer Connolly from LAX, Officer 
Weaver from SE to LAX, Officer 
Pasquariello over from VNYS to 
LAX, Officer Ficken in from WIL to 
LAX, and P-1 Robinson in from 
TRNG. 
Movin’ Up 

Congratulations to the following 
people who have recently promoted: 
D-3 Kurt Wachter, Sgt. 2 Arneson, 
and Sgt. 2 Hallford. 


Movin’ Out 


We wish the following people who 
are leaving Pacific Area the best of luck 


}, 
“Pe 


More Divisional Reporter on next page 


PROTECT YOUR INCOME,ASSETS & SAVINGS 


® 
Serving LAPD since 1985 - Insures 40 Million Worldwide 


“NO INSURANCE IS COMPLETE WITHOUT IT” 


POLICE ALERT!! 


NEW BENEFIT OPTIONS AVAILABLE 


FOR: & 
C om 


C 
oz 
cr 


DISABILITY 

ACCIDENT (ON/OFF JOB) 

HOSPITAL (INCLUDING-IN/OUT SURGERY) 
CANCER PROTECTION 
INTENSIVE/CORONARY CARE 


PLEASE CALL TO REVIEW YOUR PROGRAM 
(213) 625-7375 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 33 












by Gail Ryan 


Newton Division 
ER et te kk 


It doesn’t pay to rob in your own 
neighborhood. Several days after a vic- 
tim was relieved of his vehicle by a gun 
toting gang member at 53rd and Hol- 
mes he saw the gangster again while 
driving around the area looking for his 
vehicle. The victim confronted the sus- 
pect and demanded the return of his 
vehicle and property. The suspect re- 
fused. The victim notified investigating 
detectives Marrufo and Mitchell. The 
detectives conducted a check of the ad- 
dress the victim gave them. They dis- 
covered the suspect’s true name and 
that he had been arrested recently by 
LASO for a crime using a gun. The 
detectives arrested the suspect and were 
able to file two counts of robbery and 
two counts of car jacking against him. 

On July 17th, Officers Jordan and 
Winter responded to USCMC in re- 
sponse to radio call regarding a shoot- 
ing victim. The victim was a suspect in 
a petty theft at a Newton "mom and 
pop’ store, and he was reluctant to talk. 
The officers conducted a follow-up to 
the store. They learned the store owner 
had taken matters into his own hands, 
when he chased a juvenile, who had 
stolen beer, out of his store and fired 


five rounds at his getaway car, striking» 


an occupant in the back seat. The 

owner, a veteran of the Korean and 
Vietnam Wars, did not recognize the 
error of his ways of shooting at fleeing 
petty thieves in the middle of the street. 
Thus, the victim now became the sus- 
pect when the DA filed one count of 
ADW against him. 

On July 21, Officers Arellano and 
Ellis caught one of Newton’s more fa- 
mous bandits, THE THREE Cs BAN- 
DIT. The officers had responded to a 
burglar alarm at the Avalon Slauson 
Pharmacy, a location the officers had 
responded to on several previous calls. 
They deployed quickly and were able to 
observe the suspect scaling an interior 
wall in an attempt to escape. The ban- 
dit, who only stole candy, cash, and 
condoms during the commission of his 
crimes, was taken into custody without 
incident, putting an early end to his 
evening and crime spree. 

In another unique burglary, Offi- 
cers Miller and Larrinua responded to 
a radio call at the True Samaritan Bap- 
tist Church, at 5415 S. Main Street. 
Upon arrival, they observed that the 
rear window of the church was 


Sepulveda 








smashed and the lights were on. Check- 
ing the interior, the officers located a 
fresh trail of blood. They followed the 
trail and the K-9 dog alerted to a rear 
wall. The officers located the suspect 
and took him into custody. Following 
the arrest, the officers noted the 
church’s refrigerator was open and a 
large salad pan was resting on a chair. 
They also found a large turkey roasting 
in the oven. The suspect’s defense was 
that he had arrived early at the church 
for Thanksgiving dinner and decided to 
help cook the turkey and fix the salad. 
Only problem with his defense is that 
Thanksgiving is November not July 
and it doesn’t take four months to roast 
a turkey. 

Newton vice officers were busy re- 
cently when they conducted an inspec- 
tion of the Carioca Bar, located at 5517 
South Broadway. The officers, working 
in an undercover capacity, made six 
arrests within minutes of entering the 





NA 


D3 "Tony K" Ketelsleger and D2 J.C. Johnson at 
retirement luncheon. 


location. Immediately upon entering 
the bar, they were surrounded by "B- 
girls," obtaining two violations from 
the 75 girls working there. While ar- 
resting the bar manager for allowing the 
activity to occur, they also observed 
three other individuals passing and 
dropping cocaine on the floor. Next, 
vice turned their attention to the East- 
sider Motel, located at 2133 S. Central 
Avenue. Working with personnel from 
Organized Crime, Newton Vice con- 
ducted a spontaneous trick task force in 
the area. This location was the subject 
of prior vice complaints. The operation 
was a success, resulting in the arrest of 
seven suspects for prostitution. And fi- 
nally, Vice turned their attention to the 
Central Avenue corridor, from 7th 
Street to Florence Avenue, in the AM 
hours. They made over eight arrests for 
prostitution before 8:00 a.m. It seems 
some enterprising "ladies of the eve- 
ning" had decided to become "ladies of 
the morning" and cash in on an early 
morning clientele en route to work. 
DON’T FORGET: Det. III "Tony 
K" Ketelsleger and Det. II J. C. 
Johnson’s Retirement Steak Fry on 
October 7th at the Griffith Park Ranger 
Station. Contact: Detectives Baitx or 


Auto Body 





We do all the work for Van Nuys Cobra 


Corp. Serving the L.A.P.D. for 25 years. 
Go where your insurance company sends 
you, pay your deductible, come to us—save 
at least $250.00 off of your deductible 






Page 34/The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


Support those who support you! 


Richard & Elliott n> (818) 997-8480 
7650 Sepulveda Boulevard, Van Nuys, California 91405 


















rt. ZA 
Jounal 


by Mary Dacey 
West L.A. Division 


Senior Lead Officer Ragsdale did a 
commendable job coordinating the 
event and was assisted by Julie Fuller, 
Gerry "Klink" Trinidad, Raphael 
Trosclair, Robert Jaramillo and Car- 
rera... please forgive my omissions. 





Trinidad, Jaramillo and Carrera - can you be- 
lieve we trusted them to Bar-B-Q?! 


Rheuban’s Tow provided the barbecue 
sauce for which I am still attempting to 
find out the secret ingredient! That was 
by far the best chicken I have ever had. 
The steaks and hot dogs weren’t bad 
either. Mojarro will soon be off to hear 
Don Ho and his ukelele as he was the 


grand prize winner of tickets to Hawaii. 
RATS. Several of other prizes were 
also awarded and Lt. Markloff man- 
aged to score a few, as usual. A splen- 
did time was guaranteed for all. Join us 
next year, just don’t forget to bring your 
sunscreen. The only thing worse than a 
Summer sunburn is a summer mosquito 
bite. 

Joining me here in the studio is Det. 
Paul Bishop, a 23-year veteran of the 
LAPD who has also had a parallel 22- 
year Career as a writer. His current re- 
lease is Tequila Mockingbird with his 
8th novel, Chalk Whispers due out in 


WLA Detective Paul Bishop. 


April of 2000. Paul began his writing 
career by submitting freelance articles 
to various magazines and turned to 
writing novels in 1984. Chalk Whispers 
is his 4th in a series featuring female 
homicide detective Fey Croaker. He 





For Info and Ad Rates 
Call... 


Mark Deitch & Assoc., Inc. 
(818) 558-1010 


—' 


has also written episodes for televise), 
shows including “Diagnosis Murde, 
starring Dick Van Dyke. He recen; y 
finished an original television scr Dt for 

a movie titled, "Cardinal Sins.” p,,) 

gave me some words of wisdom fo, 


aspiring writers. He ‘aid Writ 
you want to write. Don’t chase tren 
Sit down and tell the best story th, 
can." He recommended Writer's [)j,, 
magazine and a book titled Write, 
Market, which contain information yn 
where and how to submit Manuscripts a 
for consideration. He said they are 
"kind of like the bibles of the profes. 
sion." If you are writing as an officer 
he said to weave your experiences into 
the framework of a plot. Det. Bishop 
supervises the Sex Crimes and Major 
Assault Crimes units at West L.A. He 
has been honored twice as the Detective 
of the Year and has also been presenteg 
with the city’s Quality and Productivity 
Award. He completed a tour of duty 
with the Anti-Terrorist Division, Payj 
Bishop has been specializing in interro- 
gation techniques for several years and 
said he loved the one-on-one situation 
in the interrogation room with him and 
the suspect. He has also found time to 
spend with his family and even gets in 
some pleasure reading from time to 
time. After all, he himself said, "I be- 
came a writer as a direct result of being 
a voracious reader." 

Welcome and congratulations to Lt. 

Tom McDonald who recently arrived 
at WLA, just in time to help with Y2K' 
How many officers are there in a Mo- 
bile Field Force? 40. That and other 
issues will be ongoing topics for roll- 
call training during the upcoming 
months. Some of you have probably 
already started collecting food and 
water, etc., for Y2K. For those who 
haven’t, I’d like to include a litt]e 
cerpt (or 2 or 3... .) from some 12, 
many articles I have acquired Nl ex=) 
perts on Y2K. Ready? Here goes 
nothin’ ... From London’s Associated 
Newspapers, Ltd., 8/5/99, "Thousands 
of London Electricity’s pre-paying cus- 
tomers have been left without hot 
water, light or cooked food for days, as 
a plan to save them from the millen- 
nium bug goes ‘horribly wrong.’ Also, 
Gary North’s Y2K Links and Forums, 
“The number of companies in the world 
that have reported 100 percent compli- 
ance of all mission-critical systems, 
and 100 percent compliance of its ven- 
dors and suppliers, is zero. There is no 
compliant industry today. No major 
center bank on earth is compliant. No 
national government is compliant. The 
U.S. train transportation system is not 
compliant. No large telephone com- : 
pany has announced full compliance. 
Public water/sewer systems are not 
compliant, all over the world. Russia is 
sitting on top of a huge nuclear arsenal 
that will become unpredictable on 
January Ist. The FDIC’s insurance pro- 
gram is not compliant. And this from 
the January, 1999, issue of Vanity Fair, 
"The potential for mayhem was demon- 
strated in °93, when curious engineers 
turned computers ahead at the North 
American Aerospace Defense Com- 
mand, which alerts the President of ap- 
proaching ICBMs (incoming ballistic 
missiles). At the simulated Stroke of 
midnight, January 1, 2000, every NO- 
RAD warning screen froze. Of course, 
I could go on and on... but I won’t .. 
. that is, not until next time. 


= TA ee ee * 65 


rz - ee nil 


J 
| 









_—— | | oS a | 












by Lauro V. Montes 
Northeast Division 





| hope everyone had a great summer 
and enjoyed spending some quality 
time with your family. But as we all 
found out, three months of quality time 
‘; more than enough. Thank God for 
September and the beginning of the 
new school year. 

If any of you were like me and spent 
the summer at weekly barbecues, it’s 
time to reintroduce yourself to your di- 
yisional weightroom. The treadmill, 
stationary bicycle, and free weights are 
just what the doctor ordered. Sign in 
first and just remember, it only hurts for 
the first two weeks. 


Thirty and Counting 


Sgt. Joe Oliveri, #14481, 31 
years, P-3 Rich Will, #13813, 31 
years, and Sgt. Ron Lopez, #15363, 
30 years, are three of Northeast’s 
finest. Not only are they three of 
our most tenured officers, they are 
three of our most respected. Of all 
three officers, Rich Will has the most 
time at Northeast Division (31 years), 
and counting. 


Welcome Back! 


Sgt. William Clements returned to 
duty on Labor Day, 9/6/99, after his 
recent illness. I’m sure I speak for all 


your friends when I say, "What took 
you so long?" 


Open House 


Northeast Division will be hosting its 


annual open house on Saturday, Octo- 
ber 23rd, in the rear parking lot. There 
will be special appearances by DARE, 
SWAT, Motors, K-9, Bike Patrol 
LAED, Mounted Unit, Air Support and 
the Red Cross. Station tours will be 
available along with free hot dogs and 
drinks. Come on out and join all of us 
between 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. 


Wedding Bells 


Congratulations to Officer Cindy 


Perez on her August wedding. 


Promotions 


Congratulations to Lt. Kirk (Sgt. 2 


from IAG), and Lt. Biersborn (Sgt. 2 
from MSD) on their recent promotions. 


We hope you enjoy your stay at North- 
east Division. 


Bienvenidos 


A big Northeast Division welcome to 
Sgt. A. Sandoval from SE, Set. R. Bro- 
phy from FTHL, recruits Gillani, 
Jones, Park and Smith from TD, and 
PSR M. Fournier from BAD. 


Adios 


Thanks to the following former 
Northeast personnel on their hard 
work while at Northeast Division: Lt. 
Byron Young to Newton, Lt. J. J. 
May to SE, Sgt. Dave Hall to HWD, 
P3+1 Louie Chavez to CID, P2 Mike 
Rodriguez to ASD, P2 Henry Guar- 
dado to CTD, and P\s Eric Holguin, 
Gail Bury and Marie Jimenez. 


Co-Ed Softball 


Congratulations to Northeast Divi- 
sion softball (co-ed) players Paul Wil- 





liams, John Marroquin, 
Terri Anderson, Eli Vil- 
lasenor, Everardo Amaral 
and Alex Jacinto. Their team 
captured fourth place among 
32 other teams at the August 
Nevada Police Games held in 
Las Vegas. 


Lt. Byron Young 


After having spent 10 plus 
years as a Northeast watch 
commander, Lt. Byron 
Young was recently trans- 
ferred to Newton Division. He 
was a patrol favorite due to his 
fairness, calm demeanor and 
quasi-military approach to po- 
lice matters. He did his best to 
take care of his own and for that we are 
very grateful. Best of luck at your new 
assignment. (The enclosed photo de- 






S REXWOH SS 
SET NS 
SY eS S 


Lt. Young and morning watch co-workers. 
picts Lt. Young, in the middle of the 


photo, along with some of his morning 
watch co-workers.) 


Off-Probation Party 


My sources tell me that a recent off- 
probation party was thrown by Officers 





N/E Detectives hard at work: (left to right) B. Sabado, T. 
Stephenson and V. Carreon. 


Holguin, Bury and Jimenez. They 
were trying to thank all their TOs that 
trained them over the last 12 months. I 
was also informed it was the first such 





party thrown in the last 9 to 10 months. 
I told my sources that since I didn’t get 
a personal invitation I couldn’t menton 
it in the Blue Line. 

C-ya next month! 


eo 








by Cole Burdette 
Air Support Division 





ASD Happenings 


Well, as we move through the Labor 
Day weekend and summer ends Air 
Support Division continues to change 
like the seasons. After our last big 6 
Officer retirement a few months ago 
and some recent transfers and promo- 
tions we continue to change. We're not 
adding two new sergeants, two com- 
mand pilots, two tactical flight officers, 
and a partridge in a pear tree . . . (that’s 
right, only 89 more shopping days be- 
fore Christmas.) 

Officer Andy Whitman, an Air Sup- 
Port Division Tactical Flight Officer 
for the last nine years, just turned in his 
Wings for a set of stripes. He’s now 
West Valley Sgt. Whitman, but if you 
call him "Air 10," I guarantee he’ ll an- 
‘Wer up. This is just another example of 

© talent/experience we are losing. 

Ngratulations, Andy, and thanks for 
the Memories. Be careful out there and 

n't be a stranger. From everyone at 
Alt Support, good luck and Godspeed. 
5 anticipated, Officer Mike Ro- 

6Uez from Northeast CRASH just 

“'Sfetred in as our newest Tactical 
ht Officer. Welcome to Air Sup- 

With a little hard work Mike will 

"his TRO Wings just after last 

“Ss new arrival, Wayne Oatis. 


(Don’t worry guys, the three-month 
ready. He and his wife, Cindy, went and 
had a baby boy on August 20, 1999. 
Jonathan Patrick Oatis hasn't been up 
for a ride-along yet, but we all wish him 
and his proud family well. If he’s any- 
thing like dad, we'll hand him a map 
book and put him to work. 
Celebration is also in order for our 
two newest Command Pilots former 
TFOs Dan Hadfield and Larry Cham- 
berlain. Dan and Larry earned their 
Pilot’s Wings the first week in Septem- 
ber. Thank you both for the meals you 
provided at your wings presentation. 
(Why is it when someone gets their 
wings, there are always footprints on 
the tile from the hanger to the locker 
room?) On behalf of Dan, Larry and the 
entire division, we'd also like to offer 
our thanks for the time and dedication 
put in by Dan Johnson and Dave 
Gomez, our ASD flight instructors. 
Last, but not least, we’d like to wel- 





come two new sergeants to Air Sup- 
port—Bob Ackerman 4! 

Shortly. I’m sure flight training won t 
be a real warm welcome, but it s kind 
of required. You asked for it. Good luck 
to you both and welcome aboard. 


and Bill 


As you can see by now, Air Support 


Division is really, really changing. We 
continue to strive for high standards to 

ain strong li 
va itis like the willow. (Had to 
throw some woodworker stuff in here.) 
During this evolution many opportuni- 
ties are becoming available so if anyone 
is interested, come on Up and check us 
out. Pilot orals should be complete by 
the time this is printed but our Tactical 


Flight orals s 
(We're guessing 


one nee 
ai our Chief Tactical Flight Officer 


Jack Schonley at 5-2600. Five years on 


ke the oak tree but al- 


hould be right behind. 
October sometime.) 
ding further information 


ee - es 


the job is still required so we can con- 
tinue to provide you with.the best serv- 
ice possible. . i 

Thanks to Officer Deb Kickbush we 
even look better these days. "No, not 
you, Deb," I mean thanks to Deb’s co- 
ordination the repainting of our Air 
Support Buzzard Logo is now com- 
plete. Thanks to everyone who assisted 
with the painting and surface prepara- 
tion. (And thanks to Sgt. Al 
Thatcher—that pressure washer really 
saved my back.) The logo once again 
looks great and is once again worthy of 
making anyone who walks on it give the 
Sgt. Major some pushups. (That's re- 
tired USMC Sgt. Major John Whi- 
taker our station security guard.) 


ASD Tip of the Month 


Let’s talk about followings. We fol- 
low felony suspects so we can stop 
them when we are ready. This allows 
response of additional units, Air Sup- 
port and you can just be K-9 heard it on 
Tac-1 and is rolling your way just in 


case. When you hear sufficient units in 
the following there is still more to do. 
Take the initiative to cover a street on 
either side of the suspect vehicle and 
create a "rolling perimeter" around 
him. Hang back to slow traffic or find 
a safe Code-100 spot to stop facing 
traffic from entering the stop. (Always 
watch your crossfire here.) When you 
are primary and put out or hear suffi- 
cient units, "you pick your spot." As a 
rule, we won’t illuminate the suspect 
vehicle until you do, so we don’t force 
it when you’re not ready. Consider 
background, available cover, pedes- 
trian activity and terrain. Also if you are 
under or near trees, bridges or tall 
buildings, we can quickly lose our ef- 
fectiveness. Use barriers like fences, 
walls and even cliffs to your advantage 
to stop escape routes. If the suspect 
doesn’t stop where you want, try to 
direct him on the P/A. It’s worth a try. 
Be safe, you watch your six and we’ ll 
watch the rest. Take care. 


2, 
“2 


More Divisional Reporter on next page 


Officer Needs HELP.. 


Need help with your Tax Problem? 
Audits? 


Unfiled Tax Returns? 
Owe Back Taxes? 
We are able to “Protect and to Serve” 


ALL YOUR TAX SITUATIONS 








Robert L. Peterson 
(LAPD Retired) 





or Call toll free (888) 645-1040 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 35 


(818) 845-1040 







7-7 














by Al Labrada 
Southeast Division 





Changes around Southeast are not 
unusual but they are during the summer 
vacation months. We recently had de- 
parture of several lieutenants here at 
Southeast but in their place we had sev- 
eral good replacements. We would like 
to bid a farewell to Lt. P. Fontanetta 
(IAG), and Lt. D. McCarthy (RHD). I 
would also like to congratulate Lt. 
Blake Chow on his recent new promo- 
tion to lieutenant. He will now be a WC 





assigned to Southwest. A welcome 
back to Southeast for Lt. R. Scott 
(PAC) and Lt. J. May from Northeast. 


d like to wish a 





was involved in a serious on duty acci- 
dent while responding to a call. 
Ramirez received injuries to his right 
eye when his face hit the windshield. 
Officer Ramirez will be off for a while 
as he recovers and we wish him well. 

On August 6, 1999, Officer Kriski 
Neilsen and her partner, Officer Alan 
Little, were on patrol in the area of the 
Nickerson Gardens Housing Develop- 
ments. They conducted a traffic stop of 
a previously known to be 415 loud and 
big woman (I mean real big). They 
stopped the car and the woman refused 
to cooperate, thinking that her big 
frame would help intimidate the offi- 
cers. She was wrong. Officers Neilsen 
and Little jumped right on it and unfor- 
tunately sprained Officer Neilsen’s left 
wrist. The WWF candidate suspect not 
only went to jail for felony battery but 
lost her car and will have to settle for 
low calorie jail food. Kristi, welcome to 
Southeast and we hope you have a 
speedy recovery. 

On August 14, 1999, Southeast Area 
held the annual divisional picnic which 
was held at the Harbor Range. Lt. Deb- 
bie McCarthy, Sgt. Kelly Arnett, Of- 
ficer Linda Manrow, and Officer 
Danielle Wells spearheaded the plan- 
ning for the event. It had been some 
time since Southeast held a divisional 
picnic; therefore, this one was well an- 
ticipated. I was unable to attend due to 
a pre-planned trip with a very, very 
special person. However, from what 
was said, the dunk tank with Sgt. 
Brooks was not only the big money 
maker but also the biggest laugh of the 
picnic. I can’t for the life of me think 
why someone would want to dunk Sgt. 
Brooks or intentionally throw baseballs 
at him. In addition to the intentional 
ball throwing, patrol challenged detec- 
tives to a friendly game of softball. In 


Page 36 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


a 


3 Spee: a | 
ea O fficer Ramirez 


Short, the results of that game are evi- 
dent by the small number of detectives 
walking around the station (who says 
they don’t retaliate). 

One of the other highlights was the 
volleyball game which the Southeast 
probationary officers won. However, 
they were stripped of their title because, 
(1) they don’t address their superiors as 
sir Or ma’am anymore; (2) they don’t 
know FASTRAC as well as they play 
volleyball; (3) they take too many sick 





days in conjunction with days off. Need 
I say more! In short, Southeast officers 
Said they had a good time and look 
forward to an annual repeat. Thanks to 
the officers who planned the event. 
The second annual Southeast base- 
ball night was held on August 21, 
1999, at Edison Field. The Angels 
were awful as usual, losing 5 to 0 to 







the Detroit Tigers. Despite the poor 
performance of the Angels, it was a 
good family night and fun evening for 
all that attended. A big thanks goes out 
to P.O. III Paul Scire for setting the 
whole thing up again this year. (Story 
and photos submitted by Det.-II] 
Candy Delgado). 


From the Bird 


We would like to welcome into our 
deployment the new Colomey. Cassidy 
Jordyn Colomey was born on July 4, 
1999. She weighed in at 8.5 pounds 
and was a Laker 30-1/2 inches long. 
We are hoping the baby will run like 
dad, Officer Tim Colomey (South- 
east) but will talk like mom, Marci 
Colomey (Harbor). 


On the Move 


I would like to bid a divisional fare- 
well to Sgts. P. Smith (Jail) and A. 
Sandoval (NE). Congratulations to 
the new Metro Officer T. Swift. Re- 
member, you need a new suit. Fare- 
well to P.O. III J. Perry (Pacific), 
P.O. II J. Arenas (Central), P.O. II 
Nancy Amoroso (ND), P.O. II R. 
Weaver (PAC-LAX) and P.O. II R. 
Puettmann (SB), 

I would like to welcome to the divi- 
sion new PIII Officer A. Aceves 
(DARE), P.O. III S. Garcia (ND), and 
P.O. II F. Dominguez (Pac); our new 
boot (wearers) P-1 T. Burke, P-1 B. 
Crafton, P-1 F. Garcia, P-1 G. Hard- 
en, and P-1 M. Lorenz. 

Till the next one, if any of you current 
or retired Southeasters have some divi- 
sional war stories, send them in, atten- 
tion Al Labrada, Southeast Area, 145 
West 108th St., L.A., CA 90065. I will 
get them printed for upcoming issues. 

BE SAFE! % 








by Maria C. Marquez 
77th Street Division 


To Hook, Book and B.B.Q. 


It is no well kept secret that if ne 
our "numbers" be! 
77th 


morale is up so will your” 
I suppose one of the things that 


Ln iy ar ar a 
Street always takes pride in 1s that 


initio fe onan | 


Officer Art Yanez "Our Veterano" showing Of- 
ficer Dan Vasquez the art of chopping carne 


asada. 


continue to strive in true "traditional 
form." Hard efforts do not go unrecog- 


nized, and so our watches now go that 
extra mile and put on some outstanding 


barbecues and potlucks for our officers. 


Special thanks to our watch commanders 


for their support! The best part of this 
type of event is that the officers feel that 
they are appreciated, and that in itself 


ee 





Officer Cliff Lloyd and Officer 
enjoying a P.M. Watch BBQ. 


makes all of the hard work by those offi- 
cers involved worthwhile. Let it be 
known that there is more than doughnuts 
and coffee for 77th Street Officers. 


Give Me the Time and 
| Will Solve the Crime. 


Calls for service have gone down in 
77th Division. Whoa! Another miracle in 
the "City of Angels"!! With this blessing, 
some of our officers have done some 
outstanding work! Check it out ._. 

On August 16, 1999, Officer Mario 
Cardona, #33905, and Officer Ruben 
Martinez, #33929, received a Call about 
an ADW invest wherein the victim was 
soaked with alcohol and lit on fire. They 
met the victim and she provided some 
outstanding follow-up locations for the 
suspect. The officers met up with LAFD 
arson and conducted their follow-up in- 
vestigations. These officers teamed uy 
with Officer Jay Nam, #31310, and Of- 
ficer Erik Dagly, #32255 , and proceeded 
to the possible suspect’ s locations. 

The first location was the residence of 
the suspect’s mother and it was deter- 
mined that he did not live there. They 
were, however, able to recover from this 
location four handguns. At the next loca- 
tion they were able to determine that the 
suspect did live at this location. However 
he was not home. While conducting their 
investigation, the suspect returned and 








vas | iken info cu Lod 
vv 


Sub equenu /, He 
187 PA 

Five nights later, Ollicer Dayig ¢ 
#341/411, and Officer Ron ly 
431676, were following 
possible narcotulc sales al 
location. After establishin; 
were able to obtain enoug!} 
cause to S€CcuUIre a “search warra, 
location and prepared samy 
something that patrol office; 
continual basis, since this duty , 
specialized units. However the ov); 
ing preliminary investigation qo, 
these two officers was so exemplary 1 
a search warrant was more than rer),,. 
to resolve this blatant narcotic pr bt a 

Once the warrant was obtained 4... 
two officers received total suppor ba 
numerous 77th Street officers nd 
pervisors for its execution. The 
of the warrant was a “multj-s eee 
involving the sales of marijuana ind 
cocaine. 

These are just two outstanding inc} 
dents that have been brought to my 
tention lately. Congratulations yy. ,,, 
a job well done. It is nice to see jh. 
sometimes we have the opportunity 
do some real police work. After all 
isn’t that why we all became Dolic 
officers? 


Girls Will Have Fun 


The female population (no proba. 
tioners) recently took a break frop 
things around the station lately. Than} 
to Senior Lead Officer Renee Minnick 
we were provided with a fully stocked 
tour bus and a stretched out limousin¢ 
for Nina "Jackie" Brown and her 


ASt oy, 


SOT Vics 


i 




















Officer Kristin Kolenda and Officer Eric 
Hagerty, "77th Partners For Life.” 





smoking crew! Our destination was the 
Greek Theater for a Go-Gos concert. 
Thanks, Northeast, for takin g care of us 
when we arrived. We had been taken 
care of by the Greek as well as with 
outstanding seats, and even though the 
Go-Gos are from twenty years ago, it 
was surprising to see just how many of 


us could still sing "We got the beat.’ 
Right, lieutenant . . 


Code 4, in Custody 


77th Street would like to congratulate 
Officer Kristin Kolenda and Officer 
Eric Hagerty on their recent marriage 
which took place on August 7, 1999. 
Both of these officers are Currently as- 
signed to 77th Street and this divisional 
family was very happy to see this "part- 
nership" take its full course! 

Something for us all to remember: 
Love is patient, love is kind. It does 
not envy, it does not boast, it is not 
proud. It is not rude, it is not self- 
seeking, it is not easily angered. jt 
keeps no record of wrongs. Love Hives 
not delight in evil but rejoices with 
the truth. It always protects always 
trusts, always hopes, always = 
veres. —1 Corinthians 13 4-7 — 

Take care and God bless! 


+ 








LAPRAAC Sports Roundup 


by Lew Snow 
LAPRAAC Sports Editor 
0 eS 


We’re Looking for a Few 
Good Skiers 


The LAPD Ski Team is on the look- 
out for skiers and snowboarders of all 
ability levels to join the team. Prospec- 
tive new members are invited to the 
annual Ski Team party on Sunday, No- 
yember 7, at the home of Mike and 
Ingrid Braun, to meet other team mem- 
bers and learn more about ski and snow- 
board racing. 

Last year the 50 members competed 
in four different events in California, 
Colorado and Canada. This year will 
feature races in Canada, Lake Tahoe, 
Mammoth Mountain, and Keystone, 
Colorado. For more information, call 
Braun at (661) 250-8167 or (213) 485- 
2811. (If you prefer E-mail Braun at 
lapdski@aol.com or via LAPD E-mail 
27025. The Ski Team also has a Web 


site located at http://us- 
ers.kcyb.com/lapd.) 
Dey 


Flag Football, Volleyball 
Seasons Underway 
welt everything goes to according to 


ental Flag Foot- 
seasons ‘shoul 












The Flag Football season was slated 
to start Sunday, September 26, culmi- 
nating with a post-season tournament 
on Sunday, November 14. The Vol- 
leyball season will definitely feature 
a tournament on either Wednesday, 
October 20, or Thursday, October 21. 
League play in the Elysian Park Acad- 
emy Gym was dependent upon how 
many teams signed up at the Septem- 
ber 22 team captains meeting. 

For more information on Football 
and Volleyball schedules, call the 
Sports Beat Info Line at (323) 221- 
5222, ext. 800, or Debbie Moeller at 
(323) 221-5222, ext. 219. 


2 OMG 


Upcoming Team 
Captains Meetings 


The next Baker to Vegas team cap- 
tains meeting will be held on Thursday, 
October 14, 1130 hours, in the Acad- 
emy Gym. Lunch is included. Atten- 
dance is strongly suggested for any 
station or division looking to enter a 
team in the Y2K Challenge Cup Relay. 

Not to be outdone, the first Intrade- 
partmental Basketball team captains 
meeting is scheduled for Monday, Oc- 
tober 18, 1130 hours, in the Academy 
Lounge. Lunch is included. League 


play is © kpected to begin around the 
first of November, with the Capt. Al 





L.A. Cops Vow Revenge Against 
London Metropolitan Police Team 


by Lenny Munoz 
LAPD - Retired 


The 6th annual Fight for Life box- 
ing event is upon us. This yearly fund- 
raiser for the City of Hope in Duarte, 
California, benefits their treatment of 
and research for cancer victims. Co- 
sponsored by the Los Angeles Police 
Protective League, the Los Angeles 
County Sheriff’s Relief Associa- 
tion, the Commerce Casino, and the 
Officer Needs Help Foundation, this 
worthy spectacle will feature a com- 
bined team from LAPD and the 
Sheriff’ s Department, going up 
against (for the third time) a team 
ftom London, England, comprised 
Of various young British talents rep- 
fesenting the Metropolitan Police. 


The English team is a tough bunch, 
an is comprised of near professional 
nt from the London area, not all 
oO are law enforcement offi- 
= Amateur boxing is taken very 
by t usly over there, as evidenced 
ing ; high number of amateur box- 

Pa a scattered throughout Lon- 
skilleg he fighters are dedicated, 
tional a trained by some excep- 
iS to th andlers all year around. This 
; Clr credit and it’s one reason 
Ythey have been able to handle our 
lets with relative ease during the 
Wo meetings. In 1997, the Lon- 
ads and lassies came to L.A. and 
ing one had an easy time wallop- 
gd L.A, cops. Last year the L.A. 

Went to London, vowing to 


fi 
first 
don | 


avenge their previous showing. Our 
team did better, increasing the num- 


ber of wins and losing some hotly 
disputed decisions. Even though this 
may sound like sour grapes, I will 
repeat the time honored boxing tradi- 
tion and claim “we ‘wuz’ robbed!" 
Now the rubber match is here and our 
guys and gals are roaring to go. 

LAPD team trainers Tomas and 
Manuel Delgado from East Los An- 
geles, and the "Candelas" Guitar 
Shop in Hollenbeck Division are 
proud of the team and insist the 
squad will do well this year. A wel- 
come addition to this year’s team Is 
Troy Laster, the current California 
Summer Games champ in the 165 
lb. open class. Returning with high 
hopes is relative newcomer Donna 
Shoates, who was courageous and 
dynamic in her first-ever bout last 
November against Tanya Edwards 
of the LASD. Also representing 
LAPD will be George Lopez, 
Manny Zapata, Rudy Barragan, and 
Ruben Palomares. The Sheriff’s De- 
partment has an improved cadre of 
boxers and vow that this will be the 
year the Brits return to London on 
the short end of the stick. 

Be sure to be there. Don’t miss an 
explosive night of rivalry and ath- 
leticism, excitement and camarade- 
rie, and the post fight party at the 
Cafe America. Be there. Friday, No- 
vember 19, 1999, 6:30 p.m. at the 
Grand Olympic Auditorium. Tell 


o, 
your pals. os 


Sports reo is a regular feature of The Thin Blue Line. For information about submissions to 
ports Beat, please call the Sports Beat Info Line at (323) 221-5222, ext 800. 


Nelson Tournament for the department 
championship in February. 

Please RSVP for either (or both) 
meetings to Debbie Moeller at (323) 
221-5222, ext. 219. 


ys Satin * Cli 


Almost the Last Word 
on the Power Pigs 


Can’t close off this month’s report 
without a reminder that the last Intrade- 
partmental Bench Press competition of 
the millennium is coming up on Friday, 
October 29. Paul von Lutzow’s 77th 
Streeters have the opportunity to close 
out the century with eight straight wins 
and earn the distinc- 
tion as the LAPD 
team of the nineties. 

Applications for 
the event are now 
available at all de- 
partment weight 
rooms and divisions. 
Weigh-ins will be 
held Thursday, Octo- 








Jerry Bichlmeier, 


—— 






le 
















A) BENEFITING [@ 


7, 
4 
yx : ; ¥ , = 
4 Ss we , > 
MONS aA aD ? y ere ee fea a = p “ > 


Friday, November 19, 1999, 6:30pm 
at the Grand Olympic Auditorium 


(EBD DIMLMEIER INSURANCE SERVICES, INC. 


LAPD - Ret. “Your Independent Agent Since 1961” 


Free Computerized Phone Quotes 
All Forms of Insurance Provided 


310-376-8852 #0B26427 


ber 28, 0900-1600 at the Elysian Park 
Academy Gym. Registration is $18 for 
individual lifters, and includes a t-shirt. 
All participants (except retirees) must 
be dues-current LAPRAAC members. 
Teams of no less than three, nor no 
more than 40 lifters, must submit ros- 
ters to the Athletic Director’s office by 
the close of weigh-ins on October 29 
(divisions may enter more than one 
team). The event starts at 0900 sharp on 
October 29, following an 0830 rules 
briefing. 

Is anyone out there planning a pre- 
Halloween surprise for the Power Pigs, 
or will the boars and sows evade the 
slaughterhouse once again and remain 
department champions? 
Sounds like a good way 
to spend some Code 7 
time on the 29th. For 
more information on the 
Bench Press competi- 
tion, call Jeanne 
Schwab at (323) 221- 
5222, ext. 218. “~ 


Metropolitan Police 
&S 


a eae 


rin 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 37 














Ball Bounces True 
for the LAPD Racquetball Team 


by Bart Landsman 


Mark Archuleta 
Bill Bowen 


Bronze - "B" Senior Singles 


Gold - "B" Grand Master 
Doubles 


Derek Brandon Bronze - Senior Singles 
Rich Householder Gold - Senior Doubles 
Steve Howe Gold - Senior Doubles 
Arturo Koenig Bronze - “B" Senior Singles 
Bart Landsman Gold - Senior Singles 
Manuel Santoyo Bronze - “B" Senior Singles 
Erik Solter Silver - Open Singles 
Bronze - Open Doubles 


Nevada Police Games 
Derek Brandon Gold - Senior Doubles 
Silver - Age Group Singles 
Rich Householder Silver - Age Group Singles 
Bart Landsman Gold - Open Doubles 
Gold - Age Group Singles 
Bronze - Open Singles 
Silver - Age Group Singles 





The members of the LAPD Racquet- 
ball Team had a very successful season. 
In 1999 The World Police/Fire Games 
were held in Sweden and because there 
are no racquetball courts in that coun- 
(ry, Our team was forced to remain 
Stateside. There were three events in 
which members of the team partici- 
pated. They included The Arizona Po- 
lice Games in Phoenix, The California 
Police Games in Pasadena (I mean 30 
miles east in Claremont), and the just- 
concluded Nevada Police Games in Las 
Vegas. A special congratulations 
should go out to Rich Householder and 
Erik Solter for improving their play to 
a level that they are challenging for the 
number one position within the Depart- 
ment. If there are any racquetball ath- 
letes who wish to participate next year 
and would like more information, 
please contact Bart Landsman at South- 
east Division at (213) 485-6924. Here 
are the 1999 results: 


Erik Solter 


Arizona Police Games 

Bart Landsman Gold - Open Doubles 
Gold - Open Singles 

Gold - Age Group Singles 
Gold - Open Doubles 
Silver - Age Group Singles 


Erik Solter 


California Police Games 

Paul Anderson Silver - Grand Master Singles 
ss Gold-"B" Grand Master 

Doubles — 


7 
EEE 
“Selina 





LAPD Wrestling Team 


The wrestling mis.now actively 





United Nations Sata, ee 


Ng riNS 
nm Road Traffic pow ts Noe ™@ Absolutely legal by 
CON SS g P . the international road 


“<, Ke +> 
~ 1968>—— oe 
Vienna 7 October ~ 8 Navemee’ tad Sa traffic law. 
SEX 258 tte, 
shel itccie ie ocp bers oy m Valid for 5 Years with valid 
[NTE RNATIONAL DRIVING PERMIT original driver's license. 


(D9 0796176 @ Drive 207 Countries legally with 


valid original driver's license. 


@ Best choice for when you have plan to 
trip around the world. 


Special fee for L.A.P.D. officers 





ed Friday, October g 


Jaramillo, WTD, al (310) 14. 
Perry Barnes, NE, at (213) 425.9<, 

At the tournament held Frida | 
13. at Knollwood Country ¢},, 


Golf Tourney Slat 


The fifth in a series of Bmore 
Intradepartmental Golf Le z 
will be held on Friday, October we 
Simi Hills Country Club in Simi Va— 0g Hills, Devonshis 
ley. Both individuals and LN dae course advantage” proved | 
divisional teams are welcome to spen “A 
Lae SH 
eee ll 
Ris 


a 
P| 
As 
ys. 
ye 


< i ? 
? ¥ 


Sy = 
A 





a 7 ah What Batter way to spend a lazy Friday than golfing with your LAPD bud ~ 
oIn : 
(pictured here at Knollwood Country Club). 


factor as the Highlanders carded a net 299 
to finish a stroke ahead of Northeas 
(Narcotics came in third at 294). Amono 
individual golfers, Kenny Korn’s 65 wa; 
good enough for low net while Devon 
shire Det. Russell shot a 72 to take |oy 
gross honors. 

In the four tournaments to date North 
east has won three and holds the cumula 


a relaxing day in the sun whacking the 
smithereens out of those small, round, 
dimpled things. 

Scoring is based on handicap "stroke 
play" and the perpetual trophy goes to 
both team and individual first place for 
low net and gross. Registration is $180 
per team, $45 for individuals, and in- 
cludes green fees and aca FOumore tie Jow net score with West Tale 
information on 
LAPRAAC-sponsored event, contact Sal second. % 


Los Angeles Police Golf Association 
Annual Year End Tournament 


Friday, December 3, 1999 
California Country Club 


Come out and join your fellow officers in a golf 
tournament played at one of Southern 
California's most prestigious golf courses. 











This tournament is one of the best deals in 
golf. Your fee of just $85 includes: 

golf, morning coffee and donuts, refresh- . 
ments served on the course, dinner and ) 
fabulous prizes. 


The 1999 tournament will be held at the 
California Country Club 

at 1509 S. Workman Mill Rd. 
Whittier, California, (562) 692-0421. 


The starting time will be 8:00am and the 
tournament will be a shotgun team scramble. 
You may sign up as a single, double, triple or 
team of four. 


If you are interested in participating, please call 
Charlie Loust at (562) 862-1260. ¢ 





SPORTS BEAT INFO LINE 
(323) 221-5222, ext. 800 


(Note new area code due to 213 split) 


Keep Up To Date 
on The Latest In LAPD Sports 


Whether it’s scheduling changes, newly announced events, 
or for updated scores, call the Sports Beat Info Line for the latest 
details. Athletic Director Tony Adler updates the message weekly 
or more often, as events warrant. ; 








=e 


ee wo A a SS 


—* jo" <3 70 « 


ar 


arse Gore lee) 6 er 











Wilshire Fundraiser: 


3rd Annual Wilshire Community Police Council Golf Tournament 
Monday, October 25, 1999 at 8:00 a.m. 


eakfast, Lunch & Dinner volved in crime or being intimidated into 
Br lusi being involved with gangs. As members 
at the exclusive as 
Club of the DAPs and Explorer programs the 
Braemar Country ’ youth are taken on educational field trips 
4001 Reseda Blvd. designed to educate them through real 
Tarzana, CA 91357 life experiences. 


An extremely fun-filled and memora- 
ble day is being planned for you. A won- 
derful day in the sun, a challenging game 
of golf with your friends, a pre-golfing 
putting contest, breakfast, a barbecue 
lunch and a relaxing sit-down dinner in- 
side the clubhouse. Additionally, prizes 
will be awarded for winning teams, clos- 
est-to-pin, longest drive and any hole-in- 
one. There will also be a drawing where 
winners will be eligible to receive a vari- 
ety of donated gifts and prizes. 

You are invited to participate in our 
first corporate sponsorship program. 
Consider this: Hundreds of golfers, such 
as yourself, viewing your business 
logo/advertisement placed in a strategic 
location on the course for all to see. As a 
corporate sponsor, you will benefit the 

youth in your community as well as pro- 
mote your business and actively support 


af Community Member: 

the Wilshire Community Police 
Council (WCPC) is proud to announce 
its third annual fund-raising golf tour- 
nament set for Monday, October 235, 
(999, at Braemar Golf and Country 
Club located in Tarzana, California. 
The purpose of our golf tournament is 
io raise funds for the Explorer and Dep- 
uty Auxiliary Police (DAP) youth pro- 
grams at Wilshire Division. These 
programs have been a tremendous 
value to the youth in our community by 
providing them with the opportunity to 
get involved in after hours school ac- 
tivities. Currently, there are over 200 
youths involved in these programs and 
the number of participants is growing. 

These programs focus on mentoring 
youth to keep them from becoming in- 





a al 

| Wilshire Fundraiser: 3rd Annual 

, Wilshire Community Police Council Golf Tournament | 

| Entry Form | 

. Please Print/Complete Information | 

Name: 

| Address: | 

| City, State & Zip: 

| Prone | ) | 

ital | 

ail Other members foursome: include full name and phone # | 

' fe . > ies =o) os : . ‘ Se 

: Phone: _ 

. 
Phone 

| 

| 

for ( ) Golf and Banquet at $150 per golfer. 

$ for ( ) Banquet at $40 per person | 


45th Annual 
Sports Awards 


Dinner 


Celebrating A Century of LAPD History 
Friday, November 19 
























Attitude Adjustment 1700 
Sumptuous Buffet Dinner & Awards 1800 
Entertainment » Special Guests » Surprises Galore! 


New This Year! 
Individual members of intradepartmental League 
and Tournament champions who attend the dinner 


will receive LAPRAAC gym bags 
Trophies to top LAPD teams in all Baker to Vegas categories 


Tickets ($20 per person) available from the Athletic Director's 
Ce, your unit’s LAPRAAC rep, or by calling Jeanne Schwab at 
(323) 221-5222 ext. 218 


the crime prevention and youth programs 
of the Los Angeles Police Department. 

Please respond as soon as possible, as 
spaces are limited. Contact Floyd Sim- 
mons or Officer Corina Draper at the 
Beverly Center Management Office at 
(310) 854-0832; Fax (310) 854-6376. 

Mailing address: Beverly Center 
Management Office, 8500 Beverly 
Blvd., Suite 501, Los Angeles, CA 
90048, Attn: Golf Tournament. 

We look forward to seeing you in 
October! 


Braemar Country Club 


Take the Ventura Freeway (101) to 
Reseda Blvd. offramp. Travel South two 
miles to the club entrance on the night. 
The entrance is indicated by the club 
sign. Proceed to the guest parking area. 


Monday, October 25th 

Registration is from 8:00 a.m. to 9:45 
a.m., tee-off will be at 10:00 a.m. sharp, 
scramble format. 

eContinental breakfast will be pro- 
vided. 

ePutting contest will be held from 8:30 
to 9:45 a.m. 

eA BBQ lunch will be provided as well 
as a banquet dinner. 

e Awards, trophies and prizes will be 
presented. 





eThe cost also includes Ditty Bag Polo 
shirt, beer and beverages, golf cart, tour- 
nament cap, and much, much more, all 
included for $150 per golfer. 


Sponsorships 

e Corporate Sponsor - $5,000 

Includes two foursomes and plaque 

Shirt Sponsor - $2,500 

Includes one foursome and plaque 

*Business logo on Polo shirt 

e Hat Sponsor - $1,500 

Includes two golfers’ entry fees & 

plaque 

Banquet Sponsor - $1,000 

Includes two golfers’ entry fees & 

plaque 

e Hole-in-One Sponsor - $1,000 
Includes two golfers’ entry fee & 
sign 

e Beverage Sponsor - $500 
Includes one golfer’s entry fee & 
plaque 

e Ditty Bag Sponsor - $500 
Includes one golfer’s entry fee & 
plaque 

*Golf entry fee is not included in below 

sponsorships* 

e Closest to Pin Sponsor - $300 

e Longest Drive Sponsor - $300 

e Hole Sign Sponsors - $200 
Includes sign after event. ae 





LAPD Motocross Team 


by Richard Swisher 
LAPD MX Team 


The LAPD Motocross Team 1s back in 
action again on October 4th and 5th at 
Glen Helen National Motocross track for 
rounds 3 and 4, of the Fire and Police 
Motocross Nationals. We will be facing 
stiff competition from police and fire de- 
partments from all over the United States 
and would really love to have as many 
LAPD fans in the stands as possible. 
There are two giant table-top jumps right 
in front of the grand stands where all of 
us racers try to throw as much style as we 
can while we fly through the air just feet 


40-hour P.O.S.T. accredited school near 
Gorman. Calif., to become instructors, 
and then schedule days through their 
CRO office to take the kids up and ride. 
All motorcycles are provided and main- 
tained by the state and the equipment is 
supplied by the state as well, so basically 
you are getting paid to mde dirt bikes and 
teach a wonderful sport to some great 
kids. Unbelievably there are only two 
instructors on our department right now, 
but P.A.L. wants to train a lot more and 
get this program rolling. To find out how 
to put your name into one of these empty 
school slots, contact Officer Villasenor at 
HBK P.A.L. at (323) 881-6762. 

The photo of the month is Officer An- 





from the spectators so they get somewhat 
of a show. We would like to invite you 
all to come out in force, watch us rage on 
the competition, hang out with us in the 
pit area, and enjoy the BBQ they provide. 
We would also like to bring to your atten- 
tion the P.A.L.’s "Off Road Pals" pro- 
gram. This is an outstanding program that 
P.A.L. has up and running strong in 
Hollenbeck Division that takes youths 
from your division out to a national forest 
O.H.V. site and teaches them how to ride 
dirt bikes safely. Officers are sent to a 


gel Gomez of Central Division just 
barely holding it together after a rough 
launch. Officer Gomez is currently nurs- 
ing some heavy duty hurts after a wicked 
get-off while practicing for the upcoming 
race at Glen Helen. Angel broke six ribs, 
three bones in his shoulder and punctured 
a lung so send him your good wishes. Or 
better yet, come visit him at the races! If 
you have any questions about joining our 
team or the P.A.L. motorcycle program, 
feel free to contact Officer Rich Swisher 
for the answers at (213) 485-4396. & 


More Sports Beat on next page 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 39 








“wee aS. : 





SPORTS BEAT 


LAPD Soccer Team Takes Fifth at 
California Police Summer Games 


by Don Barfield 





| LAPD’s Division II Soccer Team met 
its law enforcement challengers at the 
California Police Summer Games in an 





SS 


+ alte WS 


Phil Arreola fakes, then dribbles past an op- 
posing player. 





ultimate test of strength, endurance and 
cunning. (Division II was composed of 
20 teams with LAPD’s qualifying pool 
consisting of Chula Vista, Central Valley 
Combo, Santa Clara Combo and IRS- 
CID.) The game of soccer is a grueling 
sport played in two 45-minute halves, 


RK. . FAD 
et . 


LAPD Summer Games Soccer Team - (standing, 








team (which was fresh and had not played 
that day). They clawed and snarled 
throughout the entire game and we found 
ourselves behind 1-0 after the first half. 
The outstanding goal keeping of Louie 
Estrella along with his defensive wall of 
Gullermo Fajardo, Serafin Rodriguez, 
Herman Usma and our secret weapon 
from the north, Shawn Connolly, kept 
them at bay. That gave us enough time to 
rebound with another brilliant header by 
Flores (his second of the tournament) and 
we managed to squeak out a 1-1 tie. This 
was a costly game as we lost Fajardo and 
Serafin to injuries. 

Our third game in two days was against 
a tough Santa Clara combo team. We 
mistakenly played them soft and they 
played us fiercely with wild body checks 
and slide tackles. With our first line of 
defense down with injuries Chris Silva 
and Jorge Morales took up the challenge, 
and we again managed to eke out a 1-1 
tie. 

The fourth and final game in our pool 
matched us with Chula Vista PD. We 
were not sure how to play them so we 
drew from the inner strength of our team- 








from left) Chris Silva, Francisco Lopez, Carlos 


Gonzalez, Serafin Rodriguez, Aaron Korth, Coach Don Barfield, Peter Lee, Shawn Connolly, 
Marlon Marrache, Gullermo Fajardo; (kneeling) Julio Flores, Luis Romero, Herman Usma, Louie 
Estrella, Robert Morales, Alex Fuentes, Jorge Morales, Felipi Arreola. Not pictured: Raphael Ferrer. 


and nowhere except at the Summer 
Games is it played with such a furious 
pace—seven games in six consecutive 
days. Not even the professional teams 
compete more than twice per week. 

On the first day of competition we 
faced the cunning and calculating IRS- 
CID team, which proved to be very me- 
ticulous in its attack. Coach Don 
Barfield, fearing a relentless battle, ad- 
vised all his players to leave their social 
security cards home. This stroke of gen- 
ius worked to our advantage and while 
the IRS’s attention was diverted, Julio 
Flores headed in a smart goal. Later in the 
game Robert Morales drove the ball into 
the net with a driving shot. We checked 
our 1040s and claimed two goals to win 
2-0. One sad note is that we lost Francisco 
Lopez to injuries with a torn hamstring. 

Later that day a hot and tired LAPD 
squad took on the Central Valley combo 





mate, Peter Lee. He has studied the ways 
of the mysterious East and provided us 
wit tactics that were second to none. His 
plan was so successful that six different 
players scored: Alex Fuentes, followed 
by Silva, Luis Romero, Carlos Gonzalez, 
Marlon Marrache, and Usma. With this 
win we moved onto the quarter finals. 

It is now Thursday, the fifth game in 
four days, and we are tired, ragged, 
bruised and in pain. This was an impor- 
tant game as the winner continued to- 
wards the gold while the defeated team 
played for the last place medal. We drew 
the INS, winners of their pool while we 
were the second team in our pool. This 
was a game of games for both sides . . . 
we thought we could penetrate the "re- 
volving door" of the INS but the game 
was tied 0-0 after the first half. Aaron 
Korth and Raphael Ferrer combined to 
shore up the defense and stopped their 


Need More Energy? 


Want to lose weight? 


Fast -acting Thermo Fusion, all Natural drink dramatically boosts 
your energy level and controls appetite by stimulating your body's 


3 nS § 
be MOKMEKR TEVLOMG no 


THERMO 


FUSION) 


‘Tea your Body tat? 
Mourning Mackie 


Wey are a HO 


| Call Today! 


Satisfaction guaranteed. 


ability to generate heat through process known as thermogenesis 
which turns fat into lean body mass. 


Used by professional NFL and NBA as well as LAPD officers. 
30 day supply regular Price is $45.95 now $39.95 


oe (800) 943-7111 Karen Shepherd Kare (Wife of LAPD Detective) 


Page 40 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





Claybusters Hit 


by Jimmy L. Trahin 


Okay, so we admit we are not Bod 
the best at shooting dice . - - but sei 
shotgun in our hands and our “ a 
improves dramatically! Such he 
case in August when the Trap an e 
Team ventured up to Las Vegas for 








Elliot, Greg DeWitt; (kneeling) Jimmy Trahin, Bill Page. 


annual Nevada Police Games. With tem- 
peratures on the range exceeding the cen- 
tury mark during the four-day marathon, 
those brave souls who accepted the chal- 
lenge included Don Bray, Joe D’ Anjou, 
Vic Elliott, Bill Page, Greg DeWitt, An- 
nie Hennessey, Ed Chauff and yours truly 
(Jimmy Trahin). 

The first two days of trap shooting 
resulted in our teams taking silver medals 
in riot and doubles trap and the bronze in 
16 yard and 21 yard handicap events. 


a i 


Jackpot In Vegas 


my appearan @ at the award:, eremo, 
by donning the same garh. We looked 
a band of used camel dealer; 
them for their support... and 
coming! 

Our teams basked in glory th 
days, which involved «kee: ce 
LAPD took the gold and bron 
gauge skeet and a second gold jp, 4 


' 


lik, 
/ Nan} 


VaYDach 





Bg rns CA Od 





mr 

photo by Bunso Trahi- fe 

Jackpot Winners in Vegas: (I-r standing) Joe D’Anjou, Annie "Oakley" Hennessey, Ed Chauff, vic J 
B 

gauge event. Bray and Page were unstop- T 
pable with each taking several individu; E 
medals including, respectively, gold ang © 
silver in skeet, silver and gold in rig A 
skeet, and gold and bronze in the 3 L 
gauge event. Bray’s impeccable shooting 
also resulted in anice shiny bronze medi (¢ 
in the High Overallinalleventscategoy LL 
The team can now relax for the nevi WV 
couple of months, but we will be gearin; (2 
up soon for the millennium games at th: p 
start of the year. Anyone interested ( 
shooting with the LAPD "Towe] He. ° 


Trahin captured the silver individual 
medal in trap doubles. 


This writer will acknowledge the entire 
team’s levity following trap events. Well 
known at the shoots for my fashionable 
headgear (soaking wet, turban wrapped, 
borrowed" white hotel towel to cool off 
in the heat), the team decided to mimic 





onslaught time and time again. with just 
15 minutes left, Usma drew first blood, 
driving a header past their goalie. But 
time had apparently run out as the INS 
was able to jump back into that revolving 
door, catching us off guard to win 2-1. 
This was our first loss of the tournament. 

The sixth game in five days is now 
upon us, this one against the Los Angeles 


County Sheriffs. After regrouping from 
the previous day’s loss, we seemed to 
draw from each other’s inner strength. 
They came out slowly, being scored upon 
first. That woke the sleeping giant in us 
as we bush-whacked them 7-1. Now 
that’s team camaraderie. 

The seventh and final game in six days 
(on Saturday) was for the fifth place 
medal: the winner takes home a medal, 
the loser goes home empty-handed. We 
were down from 18 players to just 13 and 
facing a tough, competitive Long Beach 
PD for the privilege of taking home that 
medal. We have met them several times 


can call yours truly at (562) 698- 
E-mail jtrahin @ ix. netcom.com. . 

Jackpot Winners. (standing, from left 
Joe D’ Anjou, Annie Hennessey, k 
Chauff, Vic Elliott, Greg De Witt; (knel 
ing) Jimmy Trahin, Bill Page. (Phot 
courtesy of Bunso Trahin.) 


4 A, 























, 
U 
* 


in the past years and there is somewhat of 
a rivalry between us. They came at us 
with burst after burst of speed and scored 
the first goal, but we took this challenge 
head on. Determined not to lay down ir 
front of the enemy, we came storming 
back to tie the game, then quickly score¢ 
two more. We won this final game with 
an impressive score of 5-1. 





After this long and grueling tourna 
ment we can reflect on the pride am 
passion that the LAPD team displayed. A 
handful of officers, from various assicn 
ments around the city, came together to 
challenge their law enforcement broth- 
ers. Each and every one of them can be 
proud of their courage, sacrifices. spint, 
and personal drive in representing LAPD 
in this sporting event. 

Anyone interested in participating in 
the LAPD Soccer Progiain Seen ‘call 
Don Barfield at (562) 929-9222. ext. 29? 
Hugo Cepeida, (213) 485-4] 13, or Offi 
cer Sal Duarte (213) 473-4806. x 











The Retirement News is a regular feature of The Thin Blue Line. Retirees may submit articles for publication. 
Deadline for submission is the 6th of the month for the following month's issue date. 


valley Retired Blues 


by Clinton O. Erickson 
—_—<—< 


Our next luncheon meeting will be on 
Qctober 29, 1999, at "The LAMP- 
LIGHTER” Restaurant, located on the 
commer of DeSoto Avenue and Nordhoff 
Street. There is no set start ime so you 
may arrive anytime after 10:30 a.m. We 
meet in the room adjacent to the BAR 
LOUNGE. A special lunch menu is 
available. 

We had 27 at the August 18, 1999, 
meeting with Glen Sherman attending 
for the first time. The attendees were 
John Becker (5059), Barney 
Boronich (3861), Betty Carr (3298), 
Ted Debs (6808), Gene Dillon (3411), 
Emmett Drennen (3279), Ed Elliott 
(4703), Clinton Erickson (5608), 
Alan Evans (25546), John (5918) and 
Lois Evans, Bill Fedderson (4823), 
Mel Harner (4501), Glen Kailey 
(3503), Tom Lindholm (4734), Lloyd 
Lundy (4132), Bob May (3747), Boris 
Meneghelli (3522), Paul Nicholas 
(4047), Joe Nieznalski (5014), Ray 
Palaszewski (6934), Dale Rickards 
(3593), Bob Schneider (3677), Glen 
Sherman (7201), Stu Stremsterfer 


(4394), Norm Sulflow (6902), and 
Richard Young (10585). 

The annual BBQ at Dale Rickard’s 
Ranch in Malibu will be on Sunday, 
October 24, 1999, the Sunday before 
Pacific Daylight Time ends. We will 
have barbecued chicken and tri-tip beef 
with trimmings. The cost will be $15 
each that includes the beer and soft 
drinks. Send your reservations and pay- 
ment to Clinton O. Erickson, 23441 
Aetna St., Woodland Hills, 91367- 
3128 before October 16. 

Here are the directions to reach 
Dale’s place: Take Westlake Blvd. 
(Hwy 23) south from the Ventura Fwy 
(Hwy 101) approximately 5 miles to the 
crest of the Santa Monica Mountains 
where you will intersect with Mulhol- 

land Hwy. Continue southwesterly on 

Mulholland Hwy for about | mile to 

Dale’s address. There will be signs at 
the driveway entrance for the BBQ at 

33173 W. Mulholland Hwy. If you get 

lost, call Dale at 818-889-1447. 

If you need any information about 
meetings (always the third Wednesday 
of each month), call me (Erickson) at 
(818) 340-2430. 





= Retired Fire 


Police 


“Association 
“General Membership Meeting’ 


When: 


Location: 


November 3. 1999 
GRACE E. SIMONS LODGE 


1025 Elysian Park Drive (Elysian Park ) 
Los Angeles. CA 90012 


Time: 


10:00 am to 12:00 pm 


Coffee and donuts will be served 
For more information call the Assn. Office at our toll free number 


(888) 288-5073 












Featuring... 
Texas BBQ - 


Prizes, Gifts, and 
mMmemorative Items. 


$15 per person 


Plan NOW to attend! 


CENTRAL REUNION 


Advance Notice 
The Central Reunion scheduled for year 2000 will be 
held May 20, 2000, at the Chavez Ravine Academy 


BBQ Chicken, corn on the cob, cole slaw, 
Potato salad, beans, etc. plus cold drinks. 



























October, 1999 


P-I| Norman J. Nagengast 12158 VID .......-seee seer terete ttre 34 
SGT-II Alexander C. Salazar 13037 Hollenbeck........+-++++++++s: 32 
P-II| John McCrossen 13403 Metro.......--seeeeeee err teenereteee 31 
SGT-II Ronald L. Shoop 13444 Hollenbeck........----+s+eeesereres 32 


D-Ill Michael V. Vaughn 14590 DSD .......-.--- es eee eerste ress: 30 
SGT-II William "Bill" Florez 15612 Valley Bureau........----++++++>: 30 
P=1INohniA: Ptak 15668'VID.. 2.0.2... ete eos rir 29 
P-IIl Joey "Street Dog" Vege 16235 North Hollywood.........----: 29 
SGT-II William Dolan 16757 Communications .......---+-+++++++++ 28 
SGT-I Richmond Dresser 17074 Rampart.........--+eee+eeeeereee: 28 
P-IIl Randy D. Walker 17530 Metro .........--.--e sees reece cere ees 27 


D-II Robert V. Pulley 17805 Northeast ............:--eeee ener eee eee 
P-Il Ronald G. Stringer 20248 VID...........-- eee reer e eee eees 
D-II Robert "Bobby" Leon 20787 Bunco Forgery .......-.-.-++++-:: 25 
SGT-I Susan F. Yocum 26434 Van NuySs.....-...---eee erste eee eters 9 


15 of L.A.’s finest for a total of 416 years of service. 


Dr. Brian K. Padveen, D.C. 
A.F.1.C.C., QME 
Director 


R K Pp HIROPRACTIC 


& REHABILITATION 
The BEST of 


Chiropractic, 
Orthopedic and 
Physical 
Rehabilitation 


e Full Service 
Facility, not 
limited to 
spinal care 

e X-ray ° Massage 

e Rehabilitation Gym 

e Physio Therapy 

e Flexion 

Distraction 
Therapy 


injured 

¢ At work 

¢ Auto accidents 
° Sports injuries 


¢ Chronic Pain 
Antelope Valley 


Lancaster 


San Gabriel Valley 
Arcadia & Rosemead 


Los Angeles 
Beverly Hills 


San Fernando Valley 
Northridge 
North Hollywood & Valley Village 


Santa Clarita Valley 
Valencia 


South Bay 
Lomita 


Thousand Oaks 
Oxnard 


1-800-BKP-BACK ¢ 1-800-257-2225 


October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 41 


Open Mon. & Wed. 9-7, 

Tues., Thur. & Fri. 9-6 

Saturday mornings by appointment. 
Immediate appointments available. 











Inland Northwest Division Steak Fry 


many years but are just now byj), 
their dream home. Grady wa port 
a very large Metro tattoo 

After many years of talking gt 
attending, Claude Rouleau an¢ k 
wife made it down from their ; 
Alberta, Canada. He is usuaj)) 
combine this time of year bur , 
weather put off harvesting unt 

The only physical activity of the, 
ning was the cherry stem tying cop) 
Roger “Robby” Robinson wor | 
year and reluctantly agreed to defo, 





by Gail Coutts 


The weather cooperated in the 
North Idaho panhandle for the annual 
Inland Northwest Division Steak-Fry. 
This was the third year that the Coeur 
d’Alene group enjoyed a private park 
in neighboring Post Falls. Thunder- 
storms and rain preceded the event 
and the temperature plummeted two 
days later, but on August 28th the 
weather was perfect. Sixty-five for- 








Director Dennis P. Zine and Lenny Munoz congratulating Detective Steve Haberfield on his 
retirement. 





te 


Retired RATCeNOIICN attended the Inland Northwest Division Steak Fry in Coeur d’Ale 
idaho: (left to right) Corki Rochlitz, Linda Crispin (reserve), Jeanne Mulford, Gail Coutts ar 
Carolyn Murphy. aa, . a — 


ee 


‘er: 

























— 


mer and current officers, along with 50 — = 
family members and friends gathered 
for storytelling, a steak BBQ, and a 
grouppicture. 

Californians made a good showing. 
Several officers from the south planned 
their vacations around the event: Ron 
Gray and his wife, the former Elayne 
Yochem, from the League, Pat and Roy 
Jensen, Carol and Gary Strickland, 
Corki Rochlitz, Larry Moore, Gail 
and Gene McCloskey, Chris (still at 
RHD), and Bud Arce, Candi and Steve 
Kehoe, Vanessa and Steve Fisher, 
Linda and Ray Gilmore and their son 
who works Blythe CHP, Monica and 
Bob Weir and Chery] Richards (Prin- 
cipal-R&I). Larry made the 1,300-mile 
trip on his motorcycle in two days. 

Six items were donated and raffled 
during the evening. Half of the pro- 
ceeds were given to a facility for bat- 
tered women and children. Celia 





photo by Dennis P. Zine 
Congratulations to Detective John Hunter who is dancing with his daughter at his retirement 


party. 









or > ae 
Roger “Robby” Robinson displays his med: 
for cherry stem tying. He won in 1998 and w: 
try for a threepeat in 2000. 












: 
photo by Dennis P. Zine 


Three retirees enjoying the wild territory in South Dakota - Sgt. Roy Langheld, Officer Ed Pedneau 


and Sgt. Bill Walker. 


Global 


aie 


SE, 
40% Discount 
to ALL LAPPL Members 


and Family. 
Owned and 
operated 

by LASD 
Reserve Deputy, __ 
Billy Lula /4~ > 


~~ 
> 





Page 42/ The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


x. . eo Wholesale 


4f 


Unlimited Co. 


) Specializing 
7 in 14K & 18K 
Fine Jewelry, 
Engagement 
- Sets, and Loose 
_ Diamonds at 


“eee Prices 


- 5 - - . 
be 7 
V7 3 
7. 
. - eden | 
A , iso, —— 
es - - 





DeWeber won the handmade quilt 
made by Rio Setty and Ken DeWeber 
won a round of golf for two people on 
the world famous CDA resort course. A 
round for one person is normally $160. 
Ken decided to auction off his prize and 
Roy Jensen bested everyone with a bid 
of $110. He will try his luck at the only 
floating green in the world next Spring. 

Carolyn Murphy introduced the 
newest full time residents: Gary and 
Kathy Lyles (civilian-BAD), Diane 
and Larry Clark, Linda (reserve) and 
Wej Crispin, Rosemary and Mike 
Schadel, Steve Kolb and Sue and 
Grady Dublin. The Dublins have 
owned property in Hayden Lake for 













Lic. 70C08014 


Call Ron for a Quote 
661-259-0277 


Local Agent in the Santa Clarita Valley 









Ron Rooner 


INSURANCE AGENCY 
Quality Products and 


Personalized Service... 
The Team you can trust! 


his title. Jerry Sparks was first but th 
Knot didn’t hold and Robby was de 
clared the winner. Jerry’s son, Chr 
Was a contender, along with Car 
Strickland. 

One of the challenges for the commi 
tee is to get all of the swom officer 
organized for the group photo. The: 
resist being ordered about. The 
change positions and give the rov 
monitors a hard time. Kent Setty an 
Carolyn did a magnificent job this year 
Watch for the June, 2000, issue of th: 
Blue Line for this group Photo. Mar! 
your calendars now for the next Coeu! 
d’Alene steak-fry on August 26, 2000 

a 


4 
*, 


Home - Auto . Life 


ARID 
INSURANCES 
(Qe crow 2 
KES 
3 5 


Gets you back where you belong 















sacramento Area Blue Line Association 


by Roy Kerton 


Our chairman, Justin Dyer, opened 
he August [2th meeting with a hearty 
' ‘Je and introduced his son-in-law, J. 
Ac prorsch, visiting from Kuna, Iowa. 

We welcomed Dick King, retired 
c.0. from Pacific Detectives. Having 
28 years experience with LAPD, Dick 
was a member of the department s Fo- 
rensic Hypnosis Team which inter- 
viewed witnesses and crime victims by 
yse of hypnosis. Be sure to be at our 
September 9th meeting when he will be 
our guest speaker. Guarantee you won't 
be put to sleep by his presentation. 


Art Sjoquist, who retired in 1988 
from Foothill Division, also attended 
our meeting. Art is known to be the 
LAPD historian. He informed us of the 
LAPD Historical society and the at- 
tempt to restore the old Highland Park 
Station for the purpose of a museum. 

Art explained his involvement with 
Phase II which will be the development 
and construction of a world class, high 
tech, interactive police learning and en- 
tertainment center. The facility will be a 
showcase for LAPD’s history and be 
made available for public viewing. 

Art offered to return to SABLA 
either in October or November and pre- 
sent a video and slide exhibit of the 
historical project entitled "Behind the 
Badge! The LAPD Experience." This is 
one not to miss. 


I saw this man 
Ss, do incredible things 
He ptihis life on the line each 
time the’siren would sing 


To protect and defend, 
to answer the call 


He would rescue the battered, 
the weak and the small 


He’d knock down the doors, 
through burning buildings 
he'd go 
If one life he could save he 
wouldn't hear the word no 


He was a hero in the 
grandest way 


He had the guts to stand up - 
his courage display 
He was tough on the bad guys 
but fair and true 


His heart always told him 
the right thing to do 


To rescue an animal 
hurt or in need 


He might carry them on his lap 
driving his motorized steed 


He raised a house 
with his bare hands 
To Provide for the widow and 
child of a fallen man 
Loyal to his buddies, his part- 
ners, his friends 
The men he serves with; 
Life and death choices - 
Trust that transcends 
Bonds so strong, 
“OmMmunication sublime 
N€ false move or indecision 
Might be his last time 


The faithful wife 
° worries and waits 


John Gillis was our guest speaker this 
month. After a great career with LAPD. 
John was appointed as a commissioner to 
the State Board of Prison Terms where he 
served several years as chairman. John 
gave an interesting dissertation of the 
prison term board and the type of hear- 
ings being conducted. As a board mem- 
ber he has conducted hearings for some 
of the predominant prisoners as Charles 
Manson and Sirhan Sirhan. 

John apparently likes to be involved in 
politics. He ran for the 10th Assembly 
District seat in 1988 and is now working 
with the George W. Bush campaign. 
Good luck, John and George. 

Our attendance soared to 27 bodies 
this month. Present besides Justin and 
Hoy Key were Kenneth Calstad. 
Lew Ritter, the motorcycle group, 

Chuck Crawford, Bill Wilhelm, and 
Chuck Ward, plus Bob Keel, Ray 
Lauritzen, Ed Lewandowski, Den- 
nis McDonald, Bill and Muriel 
McMonagle, Ted Morton and 
George Puddy. There were other 
members attending like A. J. Mills 
and, of course, Bernie Remas. The 
rest, | could not remember names. Just 
another senior moment, I guess. Keep 
Showing up guys and gals, and we will 
all get to know you better. 

Our next meeting was held on Sep- 
tember 9, 1999, at our favorite location, 
the Palomino restaurant at Watt and El 
Camino, Sacramento, at 11:30 a.m., 
phone: 916-482-5500. 





He Who Serves - Ode to a Policeman 


Never knowing her loved one’s 
hourly fate 


A kiss goodbye may be forever 


They must treasure each moment 
they spend together 
The sacrificed holidays 
and private time 


The marathon shifts seeing 
humanity’s worst crimes 


The darkest depraved 
unspeakable acts 


The tormented souls with 
whom he must interact 


But through it all he makes a dent 


On society's gloom 
and embattlement 


He thinks he was just doing his job 


Proud to serve, 
protect the crowds 


But he gave it his all, 
his passion, his care 


His lighthearted nature, 
his dedication beyond compare 


A jokester, a prankster, 
humor in his soul 


His car shot up; he joked about 
the day he’d grow old 


Knocked off his bike, 
run down or run over 


He still kept on going - Life's too 
precious for him to roll over 


He charged through the build- 
ings, knocked down the doors 


With no thought of his safety 
- he never gave less but always 
gave more 


He was and is a valiant, a 
trooper, helped those in need 


He, who served, served well and 


stood tall indeed F 
“ 








ates to Remember dy 


October 




























Oct. 6 Steve Ellis, Steve Kehoe, 

Mike Hillhouse, 

Gary Robbins 
Oct. 7 Jerry Johnson & 1600 

Tony Ketelsleger 
Oct. 13 Inland Blue Line 1100 
Oct. 15 Dickie Simmons 1700 1800 
Oct. 15 Thomas Hatter 1700 1800 
Oct. 15 Coachella Valley Blue Line 1200 

Golf Tournament at Sun Lakes C.C. 
Oct. 20 Valley Retired Blues 1030 
Oct. 23 Norm Nagengast, 1400 

John Ptak, 

Bob Leahy, 

Ron Stringer & 

Rich Zielinski 
Oct. 24 Valley Retired Blues Annual BBQ 
Oct. 25 Wilshire Community Council 0800 

Golf Tournament 

November 

Nov. 8 LAPPL Golf Tournament 0900 

Porter Valley C.C. 
Nov. 17 Fred Miller 1700 1800 
Nov. 18 John R. Mattingly 1100 1200 
Nov. 19 LAPRAAC Sports Awards Banquet 1700 1800 






Fight For Life Boxing Event 1830 






Wanted Los Angeles Police Officers 
For A New Television Series: 


‘Alternatives to Violence" 


Due to the recent barrage of violent youth crimes.in Colorado, Georgia 
and in Los Angeles, a Hollywood director and producer have decided 
to put together a television series, which will address the issue of youth 
violence. The series will highlight Los Angeles Police Officers and 
Detectives (retired) who have come in contact with youthful offenders 
of serious crimes. If you have had an interesting case, which you would 
be willing to appear in a television series, please contact Fred Tredy at 
626-913-3195. The series is scheduled to air in April. 





ARE STILL DOWN! 


It's a great time to buy a 
house or refinance your 
adjustable loan 


First-time Buyers: 
We have programs 
available with as little 


as 3% DOWN 


We also do: 

PERS Loans, commercial, SBA, 
construction, VA, out-of-state 
(most states) and vacation 

home loans. 

Let a brother officer help you with 
your loan. Call me anytime, 24 
hours a day for rates and full 
information. I'll save you money! 


NOEL CARPENTER 
L.A.P.D. Reserve for 30 years 


800-245-NOEL (6635) 


PERFORMANCE 





31220 La Baya Drive, #110 
Westlake Village, CA 91362 
Calif. Dept of Real Estate, Broker License #00643231, Dept. of Real Estate Information #916-227-0931 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 43 








as ay rarly Das Thi his ir 





RETIREMENT HEWS 


The Older Blue Running Team 


by Neil Parker (retired) 





Hey, who changed the team’s byline? 
Who added the ER onto OLD? Well, it 
was changed for this month in honor of 
our OLDER BLUE team captain, 
Chuck McTaggart, who, in his August 
newsletter to the team shared a personal 
triumph which I thought he might also 
want to share with all of the readers of 
The Thin Blue Line. Without a mo- 
ment’s hesitation, Chuck and Mrs. 
Chuck, his lovely wife, Linda (aka plan 
L), who is quite a champion long dis- 
tance runner in her own right, agreed. 

In an intra-team newsletter that 
Chuck writes, he fills us in on various 
race results and other news of interest 
to team members. But last month the 
back page was titled "Important Medi- 
cal Message" and Chuck went on to 
discuss a personal medical subject that 
most men, especially those of us who 
have been drawing pension checks for 
a while, are reticent to discuss let alone 
follow up on. Enough editorializing, 
here’s Chuck’s letter and if you know 
Chuck, it epitomizes him to a T. It’s 
gutty, serious, to the point but reflect- 
ing a deep and serious concern for his 
forty or so teammates who, whether we 
want to or not, may have to face the 

Same Situation. 

Important Medical Message. . . Pros- 
tate cancer is a dreaded disease that is 
usually found in older men. All men 
over 50 years joLage should be tested on 


ya _— 


=mbers of “the "Ole 4 Blue" running 
team. Unlike women, who usually talk 
freely among themselves about inti- 
mate health problems, most men shy 
away from exchanging information 
about any of their physical disorders. 
Especially problems involving a gland 
that produces seminal fluid and affects 
urinary flow. They prefer not to un- 
dergo or even to think about the tradi- 
tional test for detecting prostate 
problems: the infamous digital rectal 
exam. The American Cancer Society 
estimates that in 1996 almost 317,000 
American men were told that they had 
prostate cancer, more than the 184,000 
new cases of breast cancer. In early 
May, 1999, I had my checkup for pros- 
tate cancer. I’ve been having this annu- 


ally since I was 50 (7 years). 


“state 





| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
[Seu 
[e-: 
a 
te 
[e 
| 


LAPPL and wish to receive- 


| newspaper, please mail this. 


| form & $15.00 (U.S. dollafs:.: Makeehecknayable to: 
, only) for a one-year subscrip- ~ “eTeune eelue Line. 


tion to: 


a Ss 


Page 44/The Thin Blue Line / October '99 


ludes most of the — 





The. Rec 


if you are nota member of a ) 


your own copy of this monthly Los x ANEELESES CA 90017 


These annual checks were precipi- 
tated by a family history of prostate 
cancer. After having a digital rectal 
exam, P.S.A. and needle biopsy, they 
found the P.S.A. was somewhat ele- 
vated. The P.S.A. and the family his- 
tory resulted in the need for the needle 
biopsy. The biopsy came back positive 
and indicated that the cancer was in a 
moderate stage. My doctor explained 
the treatment options of radical prostec- 
tomy, radiation, radioactive seed im- 
plants, freezing, and hormone therapy. 
I elected to have the prostate gland re- 
moved as my doctor believed the can- 
cer was confined to the gland and 
hadn’t metastasized. Radical prostatec- 
tomy virtually guarantees a cure if the 
cancer hasn’t metastasized. None of the 
other treatments did. I had the surgery 
on June 28, four weeks prior to the 
writing of this newsletter and am happy 
to inform everyone that the surgery was 
successful, the cancer was confined to 
the prostate gland, and that I am cur- 
rently re-starting my running program. 
I feel great and at the current time do 
not have any side effects! Remember, 1 
in 5 American men will develop pros- 
tate cancer in his lifetime. Most are 
only vaguely aware of the disease, its 
treatment and its consequences. /t can 
happen to you, too!! 

God bless you and your family, Cap- 
tain Chuck McTaggart. Your candor in 
sharing your experiences are extremely 
commendable. If your testimony con- 
vinces one guy, just one guy, to set up 


an appointment with his doctor, and 


possibly save his life, your decision to 
share this medical problem will have 
been all the more worthy. And THE 
OLDER BLUE RUNNING TEAM? 
We will follow the advice of Chuck as 
well as several of the teammates and 
schedule those exams to ensure that we 
not only become the OLDER BLUE but 
the OLDEST BLUE as well. 

Hey, new runners... Sunday, Octo- 
ber 31, 8:00 a.m., rain or shine, behind 
the Griffith Park Ranger Station will be 
the first qualifier for Baker-Vegas 
2000. I/5 to Griffith Park Blvd., r/t at 


the stop sign, and 1/2 mile to the first 
r/t before the Ranger Station and follow 
the asphalt. October 31st is also SET 
BACK the clock day. Run with the 
greatest, with the best, with OLDER 
BLUE. 








“1308 W. 8th Street 


as 


7 
“~ 













- 








aie 


.e Service Representative 
Honoring Police : 
Retirement Luncheon 


777 Judith Evans ~SS” 


Thursday, November |! Bth 


Encino Glen Golf Course Banquet Facility 
16821 Burbank Blvd., Be icy 
(between Hayvenhurst & Balboa) 


Social Hour: 11:00 - Lunch: 12:00 
RSVP by November 1 Oth 


Marcia Brandon (818) 756- 8546 or 
Lynn Trotter (213) 485-5225 


$20.00 P.P., Includes tax, tip and gift 















South Traffic Division Retirement Steak Fry 
6 October 1999 - Honoring: 


Ofcr. Steve Kehoe 
Ofcr. Gary Robbins 


$25.00 / ticket (includes gift) 


Sgt. Steve Ellis 
Ofcr. Mike Hillhouse 


at the Harbor Range -- 


Contact: STD - Trng. Section 
Sgt. L. Smith/Ofcr. D. Lenman/Ofcr. J. Gryder 
(213) 485-7744 / (213) 485- 7336 (Day Watch) 


Motors Auditors - DU! Checkpoints - O & P Detail - Cruiser Task Force - 
ACC INV_AIFU Training 


Sierra Nevada 
Retired Blue Lt 


_ Dear Brothers in Blue, ae 
e giniou oo ret ired a SSOC. iat on woulda 


_s 


our Christ [mas dinner. 
WHEN: SUNDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1999 
WHERE: CAKSON CITY NUGGET. CASINO ae 


TIME: 6:50 p.m. (buffet at 7:00 p.m.) 
COST: $14.25 per person Ss 


Please send your prepaid reservation by 
NOVEMBER 23RD t Oo: 


xX vi 














R@x Dox. SS Carso nats 1, NV 897 


—_ “FOR MEMBERS ONLY” 
he Los ae Retired Fire 


re ae Los Mireles Police ey 
Bet nes Ge on Drive 


c Holiday Feast” 


a4 Music Door Prizes 


liveth. have’ any itioas: call the office at (626) 285-5138, 
alee GOR OO ESes by Dec 
ee. 


RAS. ta Non 


PRE 


rt mat 
~% 


Number attending: 3 
$A 
RSVP by December 7, 1999. 





Dolce Depo hmevit 


og Angeles 
. WKUTeS 0 


. » = cp { R ie fy 
neTIREMENT KE : f/ 
RASS Swe ? ’ n—— = 
_ “ ey | FRED'S "FROLICS 
. ie a Acodemy e-24 

q Fred NS oi ve el = ‘ 


Detect ye 
2-72 


\ 5 = ual 
MILLER ‘SZ 
Pv” ay HOWCIDE Ops | = 
aoe tN icide Special S10 / \ @ ‘ 


oO 


\ *. 
it: 


; ? 
h i? RHD- HOM. Spee 6-64 
f| Retired 10-93-99 
ANA; 79S, 705, ISONS. 
ey a a ai 
4 
bien] 


<x 


te rl 

o «Sf . 
feast FOR S F $ ; ~ _ *t BASS BOAT ri 
as, i 4y ~ : > 
gard 1 o> ‘oe \ : y — ae! 
(ee : yy- 4 2 ir 
CT sete 


(ea PE Ia%! BY, 


y ‘ ( 

v7 y ~ 

es ne Caan PAVELERS { 
a/578) area CHAMPS = WOMEN'S — eeneree ! 
_——~ c aI RT i — 
to be held of vos ~— --Ma= ey 
LA POLICE ACADEMY Make checks payalrte to: 


1080 WV. lef ppd RHD STATION FUND 
LOSA SLED, 


$9) 20 PER PERSON INCL. 


wed. Nov. (7, 1999 
COCKTAILS e@ 1700 
DINNER 1800 . 


; 
{ 
4 


wu = 
' 
‘* 
” Se 
S y =a 
; 


> 


Sor tickele % info... contact: 


RON ITO = 
BUD wars} (213) 465-2531 


CHRIS ARC6 (213) 485-2155 


TAX, TIP ¢ GIFT. 


SUMMONS 


You are ordered 
to appear ata 


Multi-Five 
Retirement Party 
at the time and | 


place indicated 
elow 


See VTD WIC For Tickets 


Ron orringet 26 yré (819) 756-8381 


Rich 7; 
iclinski Or, 
25 y 
Y yrs 


Leoc...21000 Plummer St. 
% Chatsworth, CA 


3 Oee SSB" 11400 — 1900 hrs 
Rancho San Antonio Boys Town 


~~ Bail — $30 Per Person 






The Los Angeles Police Department- Detective Support Division- 


Si. GCT TD CALL TWE HITMAN? 
Vit 42am FROM MENDERSON ! 











KATHY, GET ME MUTHEKN 
Mea | SEER! (M BLSY WITA } 
BMY 4 DELTA KING 11 AND 










on pride 






; a/ g 
NQY, 12, 1999 ,/ 
UBATIONS @ 1100 HOURS || 






LUNCHER 8 1200 NOON cet 
| 





Wie, 
\ ¢ 


RESTaAU RANT 
3500 RAMONA\ BLVD. 
Monterey Dork A 
(323) 228-4177 \ 








The cost is 













OT 
WSL LUNCH TAX HE GiET 

. ie 

Make checks payable to ALN. 

989 STANQN FUND =| 








. es 

a. = << tN, 

i'M LOST I'VE CONE SSNS 
“tll, gh 








LOCK FOR MVSELF. IF 5 


| RETURN BEFORE | GET) >— 
BACKPLEASE ASK ME 


——S 















de tickets comtact Pe SC colon al 
Der MIKE KRIHA z 
Det OLIVIA VanDernoen | (213) 473-744 
Det LARRY GARRETT 


Advertising Policy 


Wertising, classified and display, is subject to the approval of the 
tor, the Los Angeles Police Protective League Board of Directors, 


an : 
Vor the Blue Line Review Committee. 


visplay Ads 
"deadline is always the 6th of the month prior to publication. (For 
sj Mle, March 6th is the deadline for the April issue.) For ad rates, ad 


Dei, 24 Photograph line screen information, 
ch & Associates, Inc. at (818) 558-1010, 





please telephone Mark 


Los Angeles Police Department- ou 
Central Traffic Division _ oN Tom's TOUR" 


4a . 
IS Cogeiny 


wolly WOOC 

PY 

Panpart Div 
M 


Pol 
4 


v ¢ 5 
RETIREMENT | 

Din IS [R _ ET | 
: | Canty Ov M@ S- 


PIOTWOT ING 
x Wee - TNnty 


MOTOR SGT [ ’ 


° rr. ‘+ 
—_ - mon |) hae > | md . 
c IK rHowas ¢ Madd Gs ve 
as AYER EO Y lf 
AT VE LR Naa) 
a YS Se $0. é 
CENTRAL TRAFFIC DIVISION ots ee Br 
on Friary, {iG 

OCYo IS, 199YY 
Refreshments @ 1700 hrs 

Dinner @ |8CO hrs 


on a 
att 


at the 


di et ‘ 4 fs 5 
6°? MD CRS RM IY ’ ig %4 nem | $4 SLYPAL 
vr AsO ACADEMY OR. AM ROp ld: 
LOS ANGELES, Ca “yy ma foes ~ 
‘ Tt; A 44% > 
SE Ce Pd "hee | YD 
PER PERSON INCL. (Ra Ata MT YS Pears te 
oQgee 2 a 
DINNER, TAX, TIP ¢ GIFT \ae yay WE aa het 
: gos for Tots” 
‘ a in CAH GHOW 4 
. aN (a5 NA (a Coober heels Ef 
a Rene Marecow bewet pend (927 
9 — ' 
FOR DINNER TICKETS,,, -~h 


ay 


Rh. 4 

Contack CTO- 

SOT. TOM TAVARES 
or 

WATCH COMDR. & 


The Los l< Police Department Announces A 


2fr1 Retirement Steak Fry + BEER! 


honoring... DETECTIVE Il 


Jerry Jc Johnson 


Thursd ay NEWTON STREET ROBBERY 


Oct. 7th 1999 FAMDZOO 2C# Rap Sheet 
@TheGrilfih Pak et 


Univ. Div. 11/69 
Comm. Div. 11/F7O 
Ranger Station 


FFth Petre! 5/71 
S.5. Crmh 1/31 
S/E Det-! 3/81 
7FTth Det: 11/81 
5/82 
6/82 
9/84 


5.5. Croth 
DsD 

TT th Detr D-II 
5.5. Homicides 
Newton Detr. 
FETIED.__..7/02/99 


also honoring: 
Tony Kotelsiogor 


Kelle Botts ($25) 846-6572 Nevius Mamicide 
Steak Fry ¢ gift Newton Statin Pad or Tem Kotekleger (525) 646-6572 Newton Robbery 









The Los <&% Police Department Announces A 


2 for 1 Sg tay Steak Fry + BEER! 


honoring. DETECTIVE III 


Anthony ‘Tony k" Ketelsleger 
AGZSN eae 























Tony's Rap Sheet 

Thursday [etm wart 
Oct. 7th 1999 Newt Petrol Sr 
Newton Pet. P-lil 5/78 





9/68 
1/89 
Newten Det’s D-li 8/90 
Newton Det's D-Ill 7/97 







RETIRED ‘99 





also honoring: 
J.c. Johnson 
#15200 









Wit, 





Ce 


Cost: ~ 


per perce 
$20 ae, 








, for tickets 
Contact: Kelle Beth or LD. Fur 
(325) 646-6556 Newton Homicide 






Strtion Fond 


Classified Ads 


The s) Angeles Police Department onnounces a splen Jiferoy 


a Oe PIREMAEN|) 

ath *) Ke — PAIR INA Wi 
mies de® 

ae’ 


honoring a r- 
Dm RICHARD “ Dichein” 


Simmons 


AKA: *THE CHECKS ARE IN* #/6539 
HARBOR AREA DETECTIVES 


\\ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1999 


SOCANZAUON € 1700 HTS 
: inner © 1800Hrs 


DICKIE'S “RAPS" | 
Academy 1/30 70| 
Dor 


Venice P] 4-7 


THinst Pat Pm 6-12| fnleg a a | 
TTINCRASH PII 8-15/ Fy 
Def. HQ Div DI m| 


K-CarCity Arty Iny 
SoBur CRASH 7-42 
77MSf. Del O19 2.45 
SoBur Homicide 1-89 : 
SepurHom. Dm 7-90; /@ 
kKabor Dets 12-9) 
Retired 312-99 
7 and otf 


5 
Fid Deg for Co. Spyr. 
DON KNABE. (Harbor ba! 
5 PV Peninsutio Crlies) 
3-15 39 


¥ 
c—=S== 


, 
cs 4 


Foatt 
"TL ev8?) 


Fi mz: 


SHERATON San Pedro 
601 S PALOS VERDES ST. 
SAN PEDRO. CA 90731-3329 


(310) 519-8200 


Jennifer RAMCLAM, Hor Dets. (3'0) 548-762! 
Ofe.Allynnn SIMMONS, Hbr Pits (310) 548 - 7603 
Det Ten MCAVAY, Harbor Dets. (310) 548-762! 
Sabrina WILLIAMS, 5/8 Narce77th(213) 473- 4804 
Van Nathan. OCOP PAB (213) 485- 3252 


# 30 ph PERSON INCL 


DINNER, TAX, TIP & GIFT 
Mate checks poyabie fo ALLYAN SIMMONS 


Retirement Fart 


Honoring... SERGEANT I - ' : 5 
"rig SOUTH TRAFFIC DIVISION 


oe VA V1) 83 Steve's RAP SHEET 


6/68 
Wednesday 


Kamgart Patrol Pla We 
H . Drv. 7) 
Oct. 6th 1999 ea 
@ The 


Wikhire P Il 1/7% 
Seth Traffic Dv, Pile2 73 
Sertheatt Div. Set | {1/80 
Harbor Comm Div. 11/81 
Range 
Attitude 
Adjustment 


6/62 
lr2 12/85 
@ 4:00 pm 
BBQ 


Training. Div, 


le2 3/85 
84 
fF? 


Pitt 


(213) 465-7744 
se beg vA EI A 





Although the date has passed, we are 
publishing this retirement announcement 
for commemorative purposes. 







Puuc’s "THaiis” 
3-71 















honoring 
Police Officer I 


Phil ‘crasu-90. EN iF 


RODRIGUEZ + 


ed 
NORTHEAST CRASH Se . : 


( Gee r | 
Cerlgcher soe, ta 


@ 1700 hrs. B! ‘ rn 
Victual Consumption e 1800 is CF BY = NS 
» * re . oj Ps 
~ i lex 
- Bae i 
\ I Nd 73 
a 


ipWw4 
LA. POLICE ACADEMY | 
Rock Garden 
1880 N. ACADEMY DR. 
Los Angeles, CA ~-! 


SWiN ss oe 
iia 





4 












| 
uf | 


a) 












$2 YOO PER PERSON For tiskety/inpo... contact : 
DINNER, TAX, TIP 3 GET SGT. BOB ARCOS (213) 465-313) 
DET. BOB LOPEZ 
Goole # Moffett OFCR. ELI muLAsehion f(2!3) 647-026) 
8/99 S6T. CARLOS DELAROCA (213) 485-9365 






Classified advertisers must be members of the LAPPL, and advertising 
may be for sale or rental of personal items ONLY. All new ads or ad 
changes should be typed or legibly handwritten and submitted on or 


before deadline date (the 6th of the month prior to issue, i.e.: March 6th 
is the deadline for the April issue) in the attention of Mark Deitch, The 
Thin Blue Line, 4444 Riverside Dr., Ste 202, Burbank, CA 91505. Ads or ad 


changes will not be taken over the phone. Please include a check or 
money order payable to The Thin Blue Line and a note indicating the 
number of months you wish your ad to be published. Rates for members 
of the LAPPL are $10 per month for every 35 words. 





October '99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 45 








> 
» + 

: 
? - 7 

mf" <= - ° 
’ / 





Inland Blue Line 
by Loyd H. Yandle 


The fall meeting and luncheon of the 
Inland Blue Line wil] be held on 
Wednesday, the 13th of October at the 
Anchor restaurant, 2524 E. Florida 
Ave, in the old city of Hemet, "God’s 
waiting room." Tariff is only $10 per 
person. Where in hell is Hemet, you 
ask? Well, just look to the east and pick 
out the brightest star in the heavens and 
there is Hemet, directly under it. A 
place where 90 percent of the popula- 
tion of Hemet is retired. That’s why 
they call it "God’s waiting room." If 
you are planning on visiting us on Oc- 
tober 13th and you’re not sure of the 
route to take, give meacall and I’ll give 
you the best route to take. I may be 
getting along in years (I am only 61 
years since 1979), and I may be slowing 
down a little and sometimes I can’t find 
my car keys or remember my bookie’s 
name, but I can always find my way 
home. So in that category I won’t steer 
you wrong. My way will get you here. 
And you'll be glad you came when you 
hear who’s coming as our guest 
speaker. Are you worried about the 
coming of year 2000 and the much 
talked about "Millennium?" Are you 
one of those people who believe all the 
hoopla that has graced our TV and 
newspapers for the past year? Have you 
stocked up on water and food, candles, 
or did you buy a generator? If you be- 
lieve all the ballyhoo,maybe you’re 
planning on drawing out all your life 
savings and burying it in the rear yard. 
Believe it or not, that’s what some of 
the information coming over TV and 
news media would have you believe. 
Come 2000 all computers will be in 
trouble. Well, come to our house on 
October 13th and you’ll set your mind 
at ease, because I have scheduled an 
expert on this Y2K situation. After 
many calls and much investigation, 
Steven Endaya’s name kept popping up 





to top out the list of experts on the 
millennium. Steven Endaya will set our 
minds at ease because he is ina position 
where he knows what is going to hap- 
pen at midnight on December 31, 1999. 
Come hear Steven and relax. Then you 
Can stop taking your Maalox. Call early 
because this should be a sell-out per- 
formance. Oh, by the way, Steven En- 
daya holds one of the top positions in 
our L.A. Police Credit Union. 

I enjoy reading The Thin Blue Line 
every month. I, like most retirees, look 
first at "the end of watch" and the next 
“retirees.” Sure are a lot leaving the 
department. If you went to all the retire- 
ment dinners like we used to, it would 
take all your pension. I see officers re- 
tiring that came on after I retired. Boy 
do I feel old. Speaking of old, I was just 
notified that one of my old classmates 
of March 16, 1949, passed away. Char- 
les Yocum passed away last week. He 
was a good friend. He and his lovely 
wife were at our class reunion for our 
SOth anniversary, at the Academy on 
March 16, 1999. We always kidded 
each other. I called Charles "the old 
man." He was 2-1/2 months older than 
I. We sat next to each other going 
through the academy. The old man, 
Charles Yocum, on one side and the 
youngster, Mark Wolf, on the other 
side, with me in the middle. Yes, Char- 
lie Yocum, you will be missed. Now I 
have to be referred to as the old man of 
the class of ’49. At our 75th reunion I will 
have the honor of being the oldest and 
also married the longest. As of this writ- 
ing, I have been married to my lovely 
wife, Beverly, for 58 years, and we hope 
you all will be as happy as we wish we 
were. 

God, it’s been hot this summer. The 
past week it has been 105 degrees to 108 
degrees. We just got back from Portland, 
Oregon. We held "The Yandle" reunion 
in Portland. Seventy-three relatives 
showed up from Arkansas, Missouri, 





CLASSIFIED AD 











Real Estate for Rent 


MAUI CONDO 


Oceanfront on sandy beach. Spec- 
tacular view. 2 Bedrooms, 2 Baths, 
sleeps 6. Fully furnished, complete 
kitchen, washer-dryer in unit, just 
bring clothes. $85 - $125 per nite. 
Call Barbara DeVore @ (800) 586- 


1636. A-5 


CATALINA BEACH COTTAGE 


3 bedrooms. 1 bath. One block to 
beach, view, fully equipped house- 
keeping unit. Marci (818) 347-6783 
or Clarence (310) 510-2721. A-12 








PALM SPRINGS CONDO 
1 Br sleeps 4. Color TV & VCR. Relax- 
ing pools / hot tubs, tennis courts, cov- 
ered parking, security gate. Close to 


| golf, restaurants & shops. No smoking, 


no pets. (714) 739-8880. B98-05 


Page 46 / The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 


Oe eee sg a ea See eer FSD aa re 
IW S3 SRO LEHR: Bi sos 


LAKE HAVASU, ARIZONA 


3 bedroom, 2 bathroom home, fully 
equipped, air, washer/dryer. D/W, 
sleeps 8. $200 a day, includes 24’ 


deck-boat. Call (818) 353-5744. 
E97-02 


FOR RENT "THE PARKER STRIP" 


2 story, 2 bedroom, 1 1/2 bath, private 
boat dock, fully furnished. Sleeps 6 
plus. Only $125.00 per night. Call Dick 
Metz (805) 270-1381 LAPD retired or 
Fred Erickson (805) 522-3090 LAPD 
retired. D97-02 


LAKE TAHOE GETAWAY 


3 Bedroom / 2 Bath home with all of 
the amenities, complete kitchen, 
washer-dryer, TV/VCR. Quiet neigh- 
borhood near the Lake, Casinos and 
Ski Slopes. $550.00 per week. Call 
Cal or Linda @ (805) 584-2718. F98-03 





Real Estate for Rent 


Colorado, Texas and Washington. It 
only rained one day out of the ten we 
Stayed in Oregon. . 

If any of you are planning a tip, be 
prepared to pay from $1 57.9 to $1.97.9 
for gas and from $1.35.9 to $1.65.9 for 
diesel. And it is supposed to go higher. 
With the giant raise we got in August I 
was able to fill my gas tank twice. 
Whoopee!! And Clinton says the econ- 
omy is great and that crime 1s down. I 
don’t know where he has been. Have you 
been shopping lately? And only 15 shoot- 
ings this past week. When is it going to 
end? 





The International Police Association 





But [ did win the lottery Jast ¢ tun 
day. Not the $4 million, but 3 Out are 
Got the $7.00. Wow! Don’t knoy, y] } 
I am going to do with all thay money 
Maybe I'll take Beverly out fo, dinner 
Can’t make up my mind though shee 
ger King or Carl’s Jr. She don’t jy, 
Taco Bell. She is afraid of the), 
Remember October 13th fo, th 
luncheon. Members wil] be og, 
their notices about middle of Sor 
ber. For all you non-members. y, 


if p 
Diey 


it) 


call me at 909-925-4491. You'li he», 
you did. Hey! Be careful oyt there le 
a jungle on those freeways. | 
get your shotgun. 


ty} 
Jon’ t for 


A Friendship Organization 


for serving and’tetiped Law Enforcement Personnel 


* 
s 
47 t 4% «24 


a ee 
*», 


IPA is the largest inte national police 


e 


world, with more than 276,000 members in 61 countries. There are 
nearly 10,000 members in 54 Reglonad 


Come Join US!! 


-_-Fr-- 


ra oe 
. : . 
a ony 
‘e f 
=, 
OS 
— am 


—— 


a 





Banquet Room - 
RSVP Bob Swaitek - AG’s Office 

lst VP - IPA Region 38 Northern Nevada (Reno) 

775 825-3330 b - Email: Bob Swaitek @aol com 

visit our www page -< www. ipa-usa.org> 


“tis @f » 

"49.4 4 2 

. a 
«t= * 


organization of it’s kind in the 


nthe U.S.A. | 


=~ 1 +s 





jy ine 
> a a ae ae 
= a €4 s 
eee eo 
. sy _ 


, 
— ty IPA LET 4 
< ” 


For Further Information: 


For Lunch with 182 IPA members 





and spouses from 3 Region - UK (Northern England) W 
November 17 Noon Oo XY 
Peppennill Hote) Casino JS? 








Sponsored by: GALT Sos: United States’ largest supplier of \aw entorcement equipment 


For FREE Caisiog Phone: 1-606-266-7227 FAK: 1-606-280-4007 


E-mail: niarnational @ galiz.com —s Internet: www.guilsine.com 





Printed By: Fidlar Printing » Davenport, lowa * 319.386.2311 





Real Estate for Rent 


DESERT CONDO 
RANCHO MIRAGE 


(Near Palm Springs) 2 bed, 2 ba, 
fully furnished condo. TV and VCR, 
pools, spas, tennis courts, gated 
community from $85.00 per night. 3 
bedroom - Sunrise Country Club 
$125/night - Barbara at (626) 798- 
2484. 





F-17 


VACATION & WEEKEND RENTAL 
LAKE HAVASU, ARIZONA 
3 bedroom / 2 bath, fully furnished (i.e. 
towels, sheets, kitchen, etc.). Sleeps 
6-8 people, fenced secured auto-boat 
parking for 10 vehicles. Full RV hook- 
ups. Rudy Andrews - 520-680-9300; 
Fax: 520-855-9339; e-mail: Tuffy- 
and@CTZ.com. Matthew Kuckowicz 
- 310-519-0249. J99-02 





LAKE ARROWHEAD RENTAL 


3 bdrm, 2 1/2 bath, fireplace, gas 
BBQ, balcony, washer, dryer, com- 
plete kitchen, TV, VCR, sleeps 6. 
Weekend $290, holiday weekend 
$395, weekly $695, Thanksgiving 
$795, holiday week $795. Steve - 
(909) 428-6564. G99-04 


GREAT GET-AWAY 
MISSION BAY CONDO 


Bay view. Completely “oak” fur- 
nished 2 bdrm / 2 bath. Space under- 
ground parking; 1/2 block to bay, 4 
blocks to ocean (Pacific Beach). No 
pets. Daily, weekend, weekly. 
monthly. Sun-Thurs, $75 night; Fri, 
Sat & Holidays, $85 night. (760) 731- 
6117, AS 





MAMMOTH LAKES CONDO. 


1 bedroom at Ski Lift #15. Ski in, ski 
out & 3 tennis courts, pool and weight 
room available. TV, VCR, fireplace, 
Spa, underground Parking, game 
room, complex newly rennovated. 
Reasonable. By owner, (310) 476- 


4784 or fax # (310) 472-1865. <1, 






VOR TES MONTROSE ERR ANT RRO a 
USER RY 1 1B ai ES OYE ES 








real Estate for Rent 


WAIKIKI DREAM OCEAN VIEW 


charming one bedroom condo. 
geautifully furnished with every 
amenity. Pool, Pvt. Lanai, A/C, 24 hr. 
security. Steps to beach, world class 
hotels. 1 or 2 adults. $600/week, 10% 
off for LAPD/FD. Summer rates avail- 
able. Dream Makers - Joan / Roy 
Bean (Ret. LAPD) (800) 446-1962 or 
Fax: (808) 638-9673. 


F-5 

—_——- 

| VACATION PARADISE 
OCEAN FRONT MAUI 


Maui oceanfront condo, fully 
equipped incl. washer/dryer, a.c. 
and nitely rates start at $75 summer, 
$95 winter for 2 people. Pictures on: 
http//www.mauilodging.com or 
call (800) 487-6002 for more in- 


formation. F-15 








Real Estate for Sale 





MAZATLAN, MEXICO 


Beautiful waterfront apartment, mas- 
ter suite, guest bdrm, 2 1/2 baths, 
custom furniture - all kitchen appli- 
ances, all rooms have whitewater 
view. Balcony, pool, wetbar, sundeck 
- low taxes and maintenance fee. Cov- 
ered parking - full security. Bud Zan- 
der (714) 969-3927. G99-01 





BEACH HOUSE FOR SALE - 
CANTAMAR, MEXICO 


Ten minutes south of Rosarito, located 
on the beach. One bedroom, 3/4 bath, 
kitchen, and den. Located in a secure 
compound with access to pool and 
restaurant/bar. $45,000 OBO. Go in 
with others and have a time-share. Bill 
Duke. Call (323) 254-2545. 


LIVE LIKE ON VACATION 
ALL YEAR! 


in Mason Valley near Yerington, Nevada, 
90 miles SE of Reno. Golf, hunt, fish, ski 
& pay no state income tax! 2 new Karsten 
Company quality homes on full founda- 
tions & large lots. Each with 3 bedrooms, 
2 baths & upgrades including cathedral 
ceilings, quality appliances and more. 
1,512 sq. ft.on 14,915 sq. ft. lot- $85,000. 
1,152 sq. ft. on 16,840 sq. ft. lot - 
$79,500. Tele. #: 775-463-4555. 99-03 


Vehicles for Rent 





MOTORHOME FOR RENT 


Brand new, 1996 wide body 
Bounder, 32’. Fully equipped, mi- 
crowave, oven, fridge, VCR, 2 color 
TV’s, sleeps 6 comfortably. Nov- 
Mar rates: $85/day & $0.25/mile. 
Apr-Oct rates: $110/day & 
$0.25/mile. Reserve now. Call Mark 
@ (661) 259-2396 or (323) 469- 
8171. 


B-8 
For Sale - Misc. 
LAPD COMMEMORATIVE 
SHOTGUN 


200th anniversary (1781-1981) Ith- 
aca 12 gauge with 2 barrels. Much 
gold decorative engraving. Serial 
#1198 of approx. 2000 made. Never 
fired. Carring case with LAPD logo. 


$1,000 firm. Roger (310) 822-7660. 
H99-03 





FOREST LAWN CRYPT 


Companion Lawn crypt in Gar- 
den of Protection. $6580.00 
value, sell for $4500.00. Call 
Mr. or Mrs. O’Dea @ 916-663- 


4553. 199-03 





OLD RADIOS AND CLOCKS 


Zenith or Scott 1930/1940’S floor 
model radios. Scott’s without cabi- 
nets OK. Also want Old Clocks, es- 
pecially Marble Mantle Clocks and 
Ships Clocks from 1900/1950. Ken 
(818) 368-8161. 





E-22 
ee 
LAPD COMMEMORATIVE 
SHOTGUN 


200th Anniversary (1781-1981), !th- 
aca 12-gauge with 2 barrels, much 
gold decorative engraving. 2000 
made, never fired. Carrying case with 
LAPD logo. $1000. Tanner @ 805- 


497-3477. 
J99-01 


Announcement 


IN MEMORY OF 
Lou Slagle, "The Peanut But- 
ter Man." - the Wooden's, 
LAFD. 





199-02 





[Eee CAROL LAZARUS 


STL Cee REA TOR® 
Town & Country 


RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE 


Mother of 


} Specializing in 


the beach 


cities of beautiful 
~~ Orange County. 
Providing professional 

service and special 


Gott consideration 


etired) 
®) 


Capt. Ra 
LA, Sheriff Y 
REALTOR 











RETIRED 


LASD and LAPD. 





All that its name implies 


Bob Hopkins 


Realtor Associate 


Office 1-800-654-2565 
email; Bob4C21 @aol.com 


CONTURy 21 Results Realty, 5800 Clark Rd., Paradise, CA 95969 


24 hr. Pager: (805) 371-2482 | 
Bus: (805) 581-4405 | 
1-800-700-8991 


LAPD Defective 


Serving: Simi Valley, 
Agoura, Westlake, 


Moorpark, San Fernando Valley, 
Thousand Oaks & Newbury Park 





Ye 


a 





B 


Berg Realty 


9036 Adams Avenue 
Huntington Beach, 
California 92646 


Business 714-962-8891 


Fax 714-968-0031/ 
Residence 714-843-5140 


for 


California 
















A 
(805) 255-4600 


ee ee ee 


COLDWCLL 
BANKCR () 


VISTA REALTY 


Serving the 


honest, hardworki 
and conscientious 


for LAPD 


serving the Santa Clarita & San Fernando Valleys 


MEMBER LAPD FAMILY SUPPORT | 


Por: (805) 286-1712 * Res: (805) 297-57 
CA: (800) 400-4620 + Fax: (805) 255-4620 


DAVID MUSIL 
Realtor (Retired-LAPD) 


San Gabriel Valley. 
Providing professional, 


real estate representation. 
Special consideration 





NN BRUNZELL (a 


REALTOR® Relocation Specialist [4 














—~~ Al 


Val Realty 

77 W. Las Tunas Dr. 
Arcadia, California 91007 
Business: (626) 574-2349 
Fax: (626) 574-5943 
Cell/pager: (323) 376-6454 
E-mail: dmusil @ earthlink.net 





ng 


Realtor-Associate, RETIRED LAPD 


Specializing in the Inland Empire, 
Alta Loma. Rancho Cucamonga, Fontana, Rialto, Upland, 


On 


tario, and San Bernardino 


Providing Professional Service and Special Consideration 
to Law Enforcement Personnel and Their Families. 
Free Market Analysis & Pre-Qualification 


Steve Mills 


VM/Pgr: (909) 376-0356 
Office (909) 483-8000 EXT 343 
Fax: (909) 350-9171 
Emall: Hunter@Milis.Net 


TAR 


7319 Milliken Avenue 


Rancho Cucamonga,CA, 91720 


BELL, Realtors 





October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 47 











818 789-7117 x 424 








Realtor-Associate® 
Specializing in: 


“PRESCOTT, AZ” 


Everyone's Hometown 


TONY PFALZGRAF 


REALTOR® /GRI 


Residential, Commercial, Land, Investment 


Call for Information 


OFFICE: (520) 778-4202 
RES: (520) 776-8599 







i A 
John Beutler @ Associates 


Coeur d’ Alene 


the heart of North Idaho 


























CALL DOWN 


--- TO ADVERTISE IN --- 


The Thin Blue Line 


Real Estate Section il 


call Mark Deitch & Associates, Inc. 
at (818) 558-1010 


Page 48 / The Thin BLue Line / October '99 





San Fernando Valley and Santa Clarita 










818 203-0117 cel-pgr. 
REMAX ON THE BOULEVARD * “WIFE OF RETD. LAPD” 

. | Website: www.ateamremax.com E-mail: a24remax@aol.com 
“Specializing in LAPD families” ; 





- ist time Buyers 
- No/Low Down Payments 
- Low Monthly Payments 


SERVING SAN FERNANDO & SANTA CLARITA VALLEYS 
; 24 Hour Voice Mail 
a (818) 829-8373 WATER 


24 Hour Voice Mail 
(661) 290-0904 
TAXbenefit@aol.com 


Member Multi-Million Dollar Club 


973 W. Gurley Street 
Prescott, Arizona 86301 





COEUR D’‘ALENE, IDAHO 
“Come live among friends.” 





(800) 786-4555 (208) 765-5554 
Residence (208) 772-4548 
4900 Northwest Blvd., Coeur d’ Alene, ID 83814 





DONNA RUSSELL, CRS 


REALTOR/Associate Broker, Certified Residential Specialist 
Licensed Since 1970 
Member, Santa Clarita and San Fernando Valley Board of Realtors 


18 Year Volunteer, LA County Sheriffs’ Dept. 





Widow of LASD Officer 


(805) 259-3102 private tine 


7 HE DELVES Realty Executives, P.0. Box 55189, Valencia, CA 91385-0189 





} oO ) 
‘Certified Residential Specialist REAL ESTATE since 1976. 
~ ing the Valley? Let me get you top § 
JIM EZ EL L CR 5 rp be ariel | know the Valley! 
Son of LAPD Detective 


aus. 818 366-1776 RES. 818 993-9470 


Serving San Fernando Valley, DON KITC H E N 

Contuy, Westlake, Thousand Oaks, Retired L.A.P_D. 
dy || Moorpark, Santa Clarita, Simi Valley 

Specializing in: 

Nina) ScceeUle Business: (818) 882-2821 Law enforcement 


Home: (818) 703-7917 personnel 


21049 Devonshire Street and their families 


Perera rire rinicz a Pager: (618) 608-3267 


Your Real Estate Loan Connection! 


Conventional MILESTONE AMALIA ALMASY 
& Jumbo oon MORTGAGE Loan Officer/Wife of LAPD Officer 
har eh ede en 7 »N office: 800.800.3435 x193 
Lett ILI AY ALS Real Estate Broker MONI +~—~—«spager: 714.804.9348 


Programs 


Py SIMIVALLEY — ereis... 


hese ) SAFEST CITY IN AMERICA Distinctive 


Dennis F. Lockhart 
Retired LAPD 























Specializing in: Business 
Y Law enforcement personnel (805) 582-3290 
and their families 24 hr. voice mail 
(805) 379-7859 





Specializing in Simi Valley & Moorpark 
Thousand Oaks, Westlake & Agoura 








1296 Los Angeles Ave. 
for a Realtor imi Valley, CA 92065 








wor a Ae ~ a ——~ 
NS 


olaom@reliicokelatcommm 


~Yo [ali m=1sale|ale(emy(eli(=\\4 


FREE ESCROW! 
Why Pay More? 
Mike McCormick, Broker 
L.A.PD. Retired 
21 years residential sales. 


lf you want to buy or 
sell a home call 
Mike McCormick today! 


(661) 286-8600 Ext. 502 
(661) 259-5434 (private line 


eh OS ae 








s 
N 
. 


YS SET 8 
WK 
SM 


. — Se ae ROA oa 
WAN >. BIO 
. SS ~ SON 


ee xs ~ Ss 
-N LEAN 
SA AAR Awe 
SIVA" VA 















WANTED: 

© 

Active/Retired/Reserve 
Officers 


Officers needed for all shifts, FT & PT, 
downtown L.A. federal prevailing wage paid. 





Serving LAPD Since 1992 LAPD Serving LAPD Since 1992 1992 


e-maul: smal: KidCareLA@aol.com 
http://members.aol. stip://members.aol.com/KidCareLA/INFO.htm html 


377-10TS =... 360-8170 


| Direct * 7am/7pm 


5:30 a.m. to Midnight ° 7 ) 
Full- & Part -Time 


Contact Human Resources @ (661) 252-7234 
or www.farnhamsecurity.com 


Lic. #PP08679 








Farnham Security, Inc. 
owned and operated by 
Ret. LAPD Officer Dennis 
Farnham since 1979 


Info Lines 24 Hrs| . 


BLUELINE BUSINE 









FREE PAGER 


$2. 99 month« 


* Free Voice -Mail 

* Free Activation 
* Unlimited Pages . Thy ow 
*$107.64 == Czy 3 
Three Years Airtime . Pena 
Expiration 12/31/99 LA ™~ 
Airlink Cornmuuntentione 















reas See 






18110 Nordhoff Street 
Northridge, CA 91325 


(81 8) 701 -0622 Ask for Abe 


Hrs.: M-F 10 am - 6pm + Sat 12-4pm 
Airtime provided by Pagemart 


SS 





MAYA SHOE REPAIR 
6206 W. MANCHESTER AVE. 
LOS ANGELES,CA. 90045 


SPECIALIZING IN GUN BELTS, 
SHOES AND BOOTS SPIT SHINE 


MON-FRI: 8am-7pm/ 
SAT: 8am-5:30pm 
(310) 670-2467 
ASK FOR JUAN 





TROPICAL OPTIC & SUNGLASSES 


—_ Wholesale 


gy 


se } Balorama 
y ww 
Cats 3000 


PAUL H. TOFFEL, 
M.D., INC. 


Ear, Nose and Throat 
Nasal and Facial Plastic Surgery 


Reserve L.A. County Sheriff for 
over 20 years 









UT. 


Lloyd Park SUNCLOSS 


Tel: (213) 749-3757 





GARGO 
RAY-BAN 
Distributor 


Fax: (21 3 ail “ 





4644 Lincoln Blvd., 1808 Verdugo Blvd., 


Suite 414 Suite 418 


Marina del Rey, CA 90262 Glendale, CA 91208 
(310) 674-2197 (818) 790-3172 





















ED BUTTS FORD has 
been serving L.A.P.D. 
and their families for 
over 7 years by one | 
of your own, Sgt. Sal ~ 

Apodaca (LAPD active). ED BUTTS FORD offers 
fleet prices on new and used cars as well as 
parts and service. CALL FOR A PRICE TODAY 



















* EXCURSION 
* EXPEDITION 
* EXPLORER 
* F-SERIES 

* TAURUS 

* FOCUS 


i “4 Gm 


Tough 
ED 
TEL: ) BUTT FORD 


SAL PAGER (213) 701-9582 
MAIL; SALAPODACA@EDBUTTSFRD.COM 


PLEASE CALL SAL APODACA OR ANTHONY IANNOE 


960-3673 
Sore UTTS FORD 
1515 N. HACIENDA 
LA PUENTE, CA 91744 
www.edbuttsfrd.com 




















2000s 


are Here!!! 
* New Dakota 4 Dr 


* Durango 


¢ RAM Quad 





1983 Hammer Ave., Norco, CA 91760 







For the absolute best in service ask for 


“Mr, Edsel” Mike Gaiser 


SB. Sheriff RSV., Former USMC 






Toll Free & Hassle Free 
(888) 50-DODGE or (909) 272-3110 


tscouny to all Law Enforcement & Family® One of the largest inventory of 4x4, Trucks, Durango’s 












COPWARE™ 


Software for Peace Officers 


¢ California Peace Officers 
Legal Sourcebook 

e Penal/Vehicle Codes 

e Drug Laws 

e Justice Directory 

e Custom eublications) A 


Call to Order . _s 
(805)578-6800 ~;~ 


Zax Electronic Publications, Inc. 












Highway Patrol and their 


Just a few block North 


YOU ARE APPRECIATED 


>) TOYOTA 
of North Hollywood 


And for that we give huge discounts to all Police, 


and used cars to choose from, great service department, 
huge parts and state of the art bodyshop. 


Contact: lan Hovey or Nathan Aharoni at 


(800) 371-TOYS 


4645 Lankershim Blvd, North Hollywood 





Ne set away for 
a week or weekend? 


Specializing in that much 
needed vacation. 
Years of expenence in finding best 
available priced vacations. 
Call Cindy Thibodeau 
(626) 812-0997 


Special attention given to Law Enforcement members . 





WATER SYSTEMS. 


Don’t Drink the Water! 
‘Til You Talk to Me! 


Call for more information on the newest 


water enhancement system. 
Tom Burris 
LAPD Active 

Sgt. Pacific Division 


(562) 696-3996 - 








families. Over 500 new 


of Universal Studios 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 49 


























»> J 
: | 
A 
j 
sane. | 
i TOYOTA OF SE 
Seen 1949 Auto Centre Drive» Glendora, CA 91740 9 
pois, ll | 
For special Law Enforcement 
consideration, please call for a quote 
or appointment contact: 
Luis Guzman or Al Abdalla 
888-855-5600 ° 626-289-359] Call 
Lowell Hornung 
Fleet Manager 
toll free 
ext. 220 } 
E-mail: Toyotas4u@aol.com 
: | 
nen lviorgan i. = 909/394. 9899 | 
Fleet/Sales/Leasing Manager ; 2 | aii pa 
enuine Chevrole 828/792-9889" 
— 1959 Auto Centre Drive ical SONS OR | 
>. Glendora, CA 91740 Fax: 909/394.9960 
& os a. a 





~ LINCOLN e ° MERCURY « * VOLKSWAGEN 
ear @ 








: IMiscatlaa ys aN 
: Drivers Wanted 
“e PRICES TO THE 

= MEN AND 
Be WOMEN OF 
be LAPD THAT 
. . nat CAN’T BE Contact 
ie: PAT DE GAETANO BEAT! CAROL WAGNER 
it General Manager Fleet Manager 
te Active LASD Reserve - 27 Years 

: _ | (10) 370-6311 ° Fax (310) 371-4911 . (310) 370-6311 Fax (310) 542-8750 


Co : 
«<p, 


— 


Visit our website @ www.peytoncramerlincoinvw.com 


_ ~ / + ~ —_—_—_ 
. f » | t } 
= 


‘ [a 


sm. 
(iets 


* 
sr od 
4 

- ; 





The LAPPL anticipates that the following dealers will offer to all Los Angeles Police Officers courteous and ethical] Service 





hi / Page 50/The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





a 2 tag tye 


% nal | 


vo 


ae 


tm, 

























enactment en —— DPPC OTE ap ‘ ’ pefF if e “Up, Ss | 
") OAL PEACE : E OFFICERS &: | Andy Has Your Car! 
P se RS : } 
Active-Retired-FamilyMembers | ‘Fleet Prices for 


— ns eee 


= T & friends 


INC a ° Huge Stock of New 
|B DD. 4 ON OF TT CaNY Oh As 
Large selection of | Mitr merariitz pure 





California's # 1 Corvette Dealer 


Genuine J cubvneier 4 Trucks Owned Lexus 
. Vinee Suburbans (with 3-year/100,000 
Tahoes | WMO) 
MICHAEL C. WILCOCK 4 ° Dozens of “non-Lexus”’ 
Ask for Fleet & Leasing Manager used vehicles; nearly every 
oe Peticat brand, suclr as Honda, 
(800) 486- 


Toyota, Mercedes, BMW 
Acura, VW, Chevy, Nissan 
and more. 


° ° . “ry 
he = - - ww. glendalelexus.com Bring this ad to receive a free gift! 


191 South Indian Hill Boulevard 
Claremont, CA 91711 






Lowest Fleet Prices to All 
Law Enforcement and 
Family Members 


Contact: 


—e _ 


SS Raa et 


: 











(714) 546-1200%% 
2828 Harbor Blvd. ™ 
Costa Mesa, CA 92626 


i ee nS | 






PROUDLY SERVING LA’S FINEST FOR OVER 20 YEARS. 
Major discounts to all LAPD Officers and their families. 









— Contact: 
_ ’ — Marlene Morris 9399 Autoplex Drive 





SRE or Montclair, CA 91763 
Re NE i r Honda: 909/625-5000 
oo Soe __ Jim McKie — Jt McKie Acura: 909/626-6000 

Co nnn serving LAPD Fax: 909/ 624-2109 
Officers for over _ Toll Free: 800/649-2277 


www.metrohonda.com 


20 years 





\ NAN e on SNSASSAAS ‘ yas 
. Sy WO SAN SSN SOS SS Qa SN ANS ~~ » 
> >>) Wey’ SSNS NAMI AY 5) 8 eS AA SA SANS 





NNSaraatate 


Wy) yy PODS GE oF ALHAMBRA KY) AW 


Fleet Department 


1811 W. Main St. e Alhambra, CA 91801 
Phone 626 308-4415 e fax 626 308-4420 


Contact Tom Williams, Fleet Manager 








r family 
treat y 


a : 
gS ial seed family va be recelV 
. enforcement personnel & 3 
: i 
pecial | fleet prices on new ve 


re 
iscounts on parts es se a ex 
: & 7) Bacn shopper vat 


_to make aus hassle- pee 








cake 


lityToyot®. or 





se bari 02 






Email: dodgefleet@earthlink.net 





LU LAPPL anticipates that the following dealers will offer to all Los mngeles Police Officers courteous and ethical service 


Oktober ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 51 


YOUR TRUCK & CAR SFADOUARIERS! 


SPECIAL FLEET PRICES 
TO ALL POLICE PERSONNEL AND FAMILY MEMBERS 


15000 Firestone Blvd. 
La Mirada, CA 90637 


Contact 


Puente Hills Pontiac GMC Buick 





Contact 

Bonita Cummins 
- Fleet Manager 
A rdy4mycar@aol.com 


Contact 

Rachel Martinez 
Fleet Manager 
newcar2day@aol.com 


~~ Low Fleet Prices for ALL Law Enforcement 
Personnel and their Families 


We're too close not to 
make the drive! 


Oo Hassle-Free Fleet Pricing 


O Largest Inventory in 
the Valley 


oO New and Used Cars 
and Trucks 





e - 
aL’ 
BGaAB ow aGag wed od Ny QO 


ry . AA. 

rIAOy | nrriar 

g ey] i be crc 4% wi 
» 


Please Call for 
pee or itreiee 


‘ > 9 ¢ > “YY -™, oy 
mn” 1 C4 
, ; 1 


~) - aat ep ALITS > ~™ ‘ae Awe | \ ALIID 
| JIU} | } 
b tode FAX IUMUTLIV, EY 


18600 ‘beveutine Street, Northridge, California 91324 


— 


Page 52/The Thin Blue Line / October’99 













The LAPPL anticipates that the following dealers will offer to all Los Angeles Police Officers courteous and ethical Service 





Pontiac GMC Buick Automotive 
Center. Offering Special 
“I aw Enforcement” 
Prices to Officers and their Families 


call 


Your 

















2100 First Street 
Simi Valleys CA 93065 


(805) &Q9_ 
JJ} SO” 


VI 


BuIcK 


6101 


LCi. OUD) 582- OLUYU 


LM 






David Perez 
Metropolitan Division 
Active 19 years 
“Toyota Central is 100% 
committed to providing the 
lowest prices and most 
courteous service to all law 
' enforcement personnel and 

their families.” 


All Toyota models in stock, plus a gigantic 
Selection of pre-owned cars and trucks, 
including all makes and models. 





L.A.PD. Contact; Lillian Andrews-Fleet Manager | 






Right across 
from the LA. 
Convention Center 


: 1600 S. Figueroa St. « Downtown LA, Open 7 
www.toyotacentralla.com 








, 


Tare 
b y 


is”. 
& 


- 
’ 
e. a 4 4 
a 
of , at | a 
? ney 
. 


ae 


eS 


Mercur : 


— i. . ; . =~ Be aR » 
" ee ' ' ss 


FORD 
INVAGICELINCOUNBIERCURY, 


invite all law enforcement 
personnel & their famil 
members to see us for a fleet 
price on a new Ford, Lincoln 
or Mercury. 


= its > -; 1 Sew e » > ied “ 
me oe . : Veo os a, or TS Nea ee Se ~ s 


Cau. Us At 


HaVOOaO9Oa FORD 


and ask for Paul Cassotta, Retired Police Officer, Assistant Sales Manager 


OVER 1000 Cars, TRUCKS, VANS AND Sport Uriury VEHICLES? 


ENSIDE ROMD RESALE CENTER 24136 CREENSIDE ROAD 
Pine 24076 GREEKSIDE ROAD ANGI 


818) 362-1511 (818) 882-7100 


400-08 FORD|661-222-2525|800-E0-MAcie 


October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 53 

























































BELL PONTIAC 
GIMC VALLEY TRUCKS 


Your Absolute 
BEST DEAL! 


LAPD contact: 
Blake Montero, Fleet al 


fa 7 ) *™> Fy =a 


| 
"SA Mw 


(SIMIC 









The lowest fleet prices 










ot = ~ id _ “oy j 7 - _ ——— en 
¢ 


~~ bh 


ee —_ WS at i 


Your Truck. & Car 
Headquarters 
"We Have Them All" 


Call for Quote By Phone 












Blake Montero 
(800) 422-2206 


Bewley Allen Cadillac 
Ted Hwang or Creighton Joscelyn 
(626) 289-5203 


Gary Kirpatrick, Fleet Sales Manager 
Bob McNay, Fleet Manager 
Don Martinez, Fleet Manager 





Bell Pontiac GMC 





Glendora Chevrolet 

Ken Morgan 

Toll Free: (888) 792-9899 
(909) 394-9899 


Goudy Honda 


Terry McCartan or Michael Tognetti 


(800) 423-1114 x617 


12000 E. Firestone Blvd 
Norwalk, California 90650 


(562) 868-0825 
(800) 853-9786 


Puente Hills Pontiac GMC Buick 





October | 


Rachel Martinez or Bonita Cummins 


(626) 810-4648 


Quality Toyota 
Barbara Cadkin 
(909) 734-6020 






















NEIL C. JENSEH 


Fleet Sales Manager 













8625 Artesia Bivd., Bellflower ca 907N¢ 


Providing 5 of the 10 Best 
Selling Cars in America to 
Law Enforcement Personne] 


Bob Wondries Ford Richard Hibbard Chevrolet and 
Luis Guzman or Al Abdalla Guaranty Chevrolet Michael Wilcox sous wads : Thej Ir 
(888) 855-5600 / (626) 289-3591 Mike Gertz or Marilyn Schreiber (800) 486-4541 / (909) 624-4541 amilies. 


Celebrity Auto 


Dodge of Alhambra 
Tom Williams 
(626) 308-4415 


Domenich Basso Chrysler 
Plymouth Jeep Eagle 


(562) 925- 2500 


Glendale Dodge 
Karen Marcus 
(818) 244-6034 


SERVING THE 


L.A.P.D. 





SINCE 1967 


Contact: JEFF VITZ 










(714) 973-1711 


Don Martinez 
(562) 868-0825 / (800) 853-9786 


Lexus of Glendale 
Andy Eisenstein 
(800) 245-LEXUS 


Livingston Ponitac Buick 


Pat De x Melina or Carol Wagner 


(310) 370-6311 


Puente Hills Mazda Volkswagen 
Richard Cannell 


(800) 573-7900 / (626) 965-7500 Ba. 146 


GHAND THEE] 





jy Lae 





Robertson Honda 


(818) 832-1610 


Scandia Volvo 
Dan Jensen 
(562) 698-0547 


Sierra Honda 


(800) 9-TOYOTA ext.220 






(800) 371-TOYS 


Woodland Hills Honda Chevrolet 


Linda Sullivan 
(818) 887-7111 


HUNDA. 






[ 












RUCK Kevin Kline or Susan Tower ater Blaine Gray 
ray (800) 994-2353 -3841 

° onne evroiet Nissan j 4 

ston Motors Mike Kraus Honda of Hollywood R.V.'s eeecnaat * Kim Slaughter 

for 714) 546-1200 Paul Geck 
Charlie Ni . a (213) 466-7191 / (800) 371-3718 (818) 885-2500 Fleet Manager 
arlie icgo orski Dependable Dodge Neal chemalet 
LAPD Reserve Officer Gradon Greenwood Keystone Ford de 
Since 1983 (818) 883-9060 Gary Kirkpatrick, Bob McNay, Vicki Marasco 


13900 Hawthorne Blvd 
Hawthorne, CA 90706 
(Rosecrans & Hawthorne Blvd.) 


Jeff Stern or Mike Nickoloff = ; Chris Kretzschmar 
| Ed Butts Ford al Simi Valley Pontiac GMC Buick 
L T 
Sal Apodaca ti Se Dan de la Cuadra 
CHEWROLET || oo hem met 
| ee eee Magic Ford Lincoln Mercury Sopp Chevrolet 
| (562) 790-3673 Paul Cassotta Betty Munillo 
Chev y Us ucks (800) 690-3673 (213) 562-8600 = 
| Par orc McCoy & Mills Ford South Bay Ford - 
, Ross Willis Kimberly Slaughter 
| (888) 50-DODGE or (909) 272-3110 (714) 526-5501 (310) 644-0211 | eS a > — ‘ 
| paipraintach Metro Honda Toyota Central DOM AG NIC 
ea Shafer Marlene Morris or Jim McKie Lillian Andrews | ¢ aD) VU. 
(818) 787-3800 / (800) 649-2277 (800) 748-9963 | Ch rysl (Te a 
(800) GO-GALPIN 8th An: er E 
Pacific Ford Toyota of Glendora 3th Anniversary 1 
D.J. Martin or John pete (310) 426-3301 / (800) 334-7711 ng Call for Special 


We work with your Credit Union 





Contact: Jeff Stern or Mike Nickoloff 
Life Member - NRA/ CRPA* Fed Flyfish, CWA, DU 
323/ 221-2151 
1201 N. Broadway 
(near Dodger Stadium) 

LA., CA 90012 
Visit our home page at basso.com 













Always Special 
Consideration for Police 
Officers, Personnel, & 
Family Members 


















For oe Call 













Don’t worry...there’s no crime in “stealing” 
a new Civic, Accord, Prelude, Odyssey, 
Passport or CR-V from us! Get the savings 
and treatment you deserve from the dealer 














or any other 
FLEET MANAGER 











] 
: 















4 
Z 
’ og ww @ ya 


> Ra Vm 


ss 













A 
‘ee * 
; 


ad “if 


. 
—_ , ' > yf 
a> GO Vw Gap Sw 6h —JF a Na vw >a 4 














a4 —_ (626)-580-6000 that’s been serving you since 1971! WORLD CLASS DEALER 
sis Mark Schrader 323-686-1000 * (714) 434-7000 CALL BLAINE GRAY 
& ae ae FLEET PRICES FOR In aaa = sac 







Your L.A.PD. Fleet Mgrs. 
(562) 925-2500 
Fax (562) 925-1498 


17000 Lakewood Bivd. 
Bellflower, CA 90706 


4 


818-008-3841 


Special Fleet Services Department 
Huge New & Pre-Owned Selection! 







LAW ENFORCEMENT 
& FAMILY MEMBERS 


| Eg 
TOYOTA 
3534 N. PECK RD ° EL MONTE, CA. 



















i 
4 "a “ 
- ,* - 


rn ~~ ' « - — a 
\ i /@- 4 S | - j { af 
PZ YYW VY ASJZEV A ¥Y 


. a ~ - a 








— 


| 
(AY e ae 
4 7 


20 years of service 
call toll free: 


(800) 466-2442 


A PENSKE COMPANY 










eee eae eS ON xa ie 


MAURICE J 


ni, Me Group 

































ALL GM CARS new & used (é 
Lease or buy 
BEST PRICE | Ua ae | = 
for you & your family )] ILLC Bic é AEE ane Director 
OG 
CALL 393-562-8600 AEL TOGNETTI 
Mariola Sharsky 3 : | 
Your LAPD Fleet manager ry 7° pp 


$< 
1400 W. Main St., Alhambra 
(800) 423-1114 


C ‘hork f | sai i rwOC| 
Me VOUrY Le Cy ff A FoVUYVUuUese 


6400 S. Atlantic Ave. Bell, CA 90201 





818/885-2500 


8400 G/U Blvd, Northridge 


Page 54 /The Thin Blue Line / October ‘99 





— aly —- 













Your Truck & Car 
Headquarters 
“We Have Them iy 





SPECIAL 
HASSLE-FREE 
FLEET PRICES 
(a Lae 


































CUE ROLE 








$0 DOWN LEASE 


and Buy Programs 
O.A.C. 


: est 
e 
co ompetitin’?, bh | 






— CONTACT — 


MIKE GERTZ 
MARILYN SCHREIBER 


714/973-1711 


711 E. 17th St. ¢ Santa Ana, CA 92701 
Genuine Chevrolet gaa 


Jim Williamson 


Coys AN ale [=1(oso¥m eae) |(e1>¥m DY=) oY-V aca at=Valt 
Fleet & Lease Specialists 


Ask for ann Presents 


Chris Major 


6511 Santa Monica Bivd., Hollywood, CA 90038 






, MERCEDES BENZ » CHEVROLET » NISSAN » PONTIAC » JAGUAR * FORD = 
TO ALL POLICE DEPT. EMPLOYEE'S 


Fleet Prices & NO DOWN | 


Celebrity Auto Leasing 


<Honpa ty Gj Kawasaki 


ay es 


EXUS 


ek 





ISUZU 


TEST H TT) om CH) ere 
Kretzschmar ZZ a cress 


Just For YOU! 


jr WEOFFER >< 
sr LEASE OR PURCHASE 1 
sr BEST RATES in the STATE 1 
us‘ HASSLE FREE SHOPPING - ALL MAKES Wie 


Officers and 


Fleet Manager their Families 





Sales 
Service 
Parts and 
Accessories 


if you're thinking about a new car OF truck 
call us FIRST or LAST — 
(Over 25 years experience) 


KEVIN KLINE * SUSAN TOWER 
(800) 994-2353 


"ALL OUR CLIENTS ARE STARS TO US* 


ntral 


1450 South Shamrock Avenue, 
Monrovia, California 91016 Tel: 626-359-8291 


1 C00-S0 54886 












* NSSWMSYIOA * NOIND + KAMV * HINOMWATd * VOZVFl * ANNOUSI » YONOH 


NUNS 


Ask for Paul Geck 
6525 Santa Monica Blvd., Hollywood 


323-466-7191 or 800-371-3718 


BEWLEY 


VOLVO + JEEP « INFINT * DODGE « HYUNDAI + OLOSMOBILE + 


TOYOTA * CADILLAC = BMW « LINCOLN » PORSCHE « CHRYSLER « 













¥ ass MG AL L EN | ‘Vp 
h ins Gir : bee | A | | | 
i= at = ED bial LINCOLN | TiazDa vf 
Excellent VOLKSWAGEN 













selection of 


© Eivtior. J 


& Chevrolet SUarry Cia ~ MPV's, Miatas, | | 1922 becties 
Be Fig va ali eL BPO At Ss Fleet Prices to all Police Cea as S - / 
y B.P.O.A. Denartinanteand ilies. enias ee our I 
UNBELIEVABLE Ficet Prices : LTT Trucks. Jettas now! 


New & pre-owned certified automobiles 


to afl Police Personne! z 3600 Cherry Ave. 


Contact 


and Their Families For special 
_ CONTACT Long Beach, CA 90807 Ted Aang LAPD Consideration 
Linda Sullivan General Manager Contact 








LAPD Consultant 
Call Now! 


$18) 887-7111 


For Your Appointment 
and Directions 


Peter Yang 


Sales Managers 


(626) 289-5203 


801 East Main Street, Alhambra \& PVUfole ~ 


Richard Cannell 
(626) 965-7500, ext. 146 





696. ‘97 & ‘98 PRESIDENTS AWARD WINNER 


1.) FLEET PRICING 
TO RETIRED & ACTIVE DUTY LAW 
ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL & 
THEIR FAMILY. 
2.) NO HASSLE PRICE QUOTES 
OVER THE PHONE. 


“My loyalty is to the L.A.P.D.” 


The perfect get away car. 


THE RULES HAVE CHANGED 


Now buying can be fun & hassle free. Lowest fleet 
prices to all law enforcement & families. 






DANIEL JENSEN 








Call 
Ross Willis 


(714) 
526- 
5501 


Scandia 


“Dealer of Excellence” 


14021 E. WHITTIER BLVD. 
WHITTIER, CA 90605 


(562) 698-0547 (714) 739-8804 
FAX (562) 945-7218 


: . FORMER SERGEANT 
www.mecoymillsford.com  eETRO SiS.Wi DIVISION 


S <= i 

= ya Pay EF Ga FT 
DE ‘DE 2 iS IO DL Cy = 
= BS a fs ‘Te id f os Room Mf iW ag Eee Qo Eo ' 


Intrepid Viper Avenger Neon Stratus Caravan Trucks 


















Family Owned and Operated for 25 YEARS 
Serving LAPD for over 20 YEARS © 





GRADON GREENWOOD, Manager | 
“ ee a a | 1101 S. Brand Ave. — Glendale, CA 91204 
Ms. Phone (818) 883-9060 Res. Phone (818) /UG-2<020 


a October ‘99 / The Thin Blue Line / Page 55 





1993 1995 1996 "1997 


VOLUME RETAIL, CAR & TRUCK «sig 


1993 ¢ 1994 « 1908 
VOLUME Leasing & rms | 


Ford Motor Credit 


[7 SHEA SHAFER 


PLP 


: or Galpin Ford New Car General Manager in eS oa | vy 


7 er 25 TE i F d 
vo 
| _  -/ , y 
are 3 v ss \ 
a Ny : } & e 
i: ,) 
“ 2, 
es\ 
Q Am - dj 


) 787-3800 2 220. ae 


; — ee" ex re ti NS } 
| ~All of us-at Galpin ane proud lime : S Ss 
. : | —— oS 


Special Consideration for ae a _ 
Law Enforcement Officers, === Sx = 
Personnel & Fami y Members | 


















“da DAVID GANDEL on JEFF FISCHER ¢@ } 


Galpin Jaguar e Lincoln-Mercury Sales Managers 


615) 892-3600 


TIM MENDENHALLE, Mess), ¢ JOE FEREZY 


‘Saturn of the Valley Sales Manager : ee aeons Nearly New Car General Manager 


2 13) 895-3800 (8138) aa 


CONVENIENTDY, 


Just Gif UNS GOS Away ait CEATEM Vattey 


44 ALI VAFEE | 3 
et our newest location Saturn of satis ane 
amily: 


=: . | The newest member of the Galpin 


~ 23645 Creekside Road 
B77) 284-a500 > Santa Clarita, CA 91355 



























