Municipal  Government  Act 


/dlbcrra 

MUNICIPAL  AFFAIRS 


i 


ALBERTA 
MUNICIPAL  AFFAIRS 


Office  of  the  Minister 
Responsible  for  Housing,  Consumer  Affairs,  Registries 
and  Local  Government  Services 
MLA,  Sherwood  Park 


July  1998 


Albertans  rely  on  the  Municipal  Government  Act  (MGA)  to  guide  the 
operation  of  local  government.  This  makes  it  imperative  to  keep  the  provisions 
of  the  MGA  relevant  to  the  needs  of  municipalities  in  today's  changing 
environment. 

The  present  MGA  was  passed  in  1994  and  has  been  strengthened  and 
improved  through  annual  amendment.  It  is  anticipated  that  the  Act  will  be 
amended  during  the  Spring  1999  Session  of  the  Legislative  Assembly. 
Stakeholders  were  therefore  invited  in  March  1998  to  submit  their  suggestions 
for  amendments  by  mid-June  1998. 

I  am  pleased  to  present  all  municipalities  and  other  stakeholders  with  a 
summary  of  the  requested  amendments  that  have  been  received.  There  are 
some  cases  where  different  stakeholders  have  expressed  differing  viewpoints  on 
a  particular  issue.  All  have  been  included  for  your  review  and  evaluation. 

Your  positions  and  recommendations  on  all  the  requested  amendments 
are  important  to  me.  Please  fonA/ard  your  comments  by  September  10,  1998,  to 
Boyd  Oberhoffner,  Director,  Legislative  Projects,  at  the  address  given  on  the 
following  page. 

A  subsequent  consultation  document  on  the  requested  amendments  that 
receive  substantial  support  from  the  stakeholders  participating  in  this  review 
process  and  from  Standing  Policy  Committee  will  be  sent  out  in  October  1998. 


424  Legislature  Building,  Edmonton,  Alberta,  Canada  T5K  2B6  Telephone  403/427-3744,  Fax  403/422-9550 
116B,  937  Fir  Street,  Sherwood  Park,  Alberta,  Canada  T8A4N6  Telephone  403/417-IRIS,  Fax  403/417-4748 


O  Printed  on  recycled  paper 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2015 


https://archive.org/details/1999requestedame00albe 


WESF'  ^ 

IVIUI  llUlju^UI  Ot^lVI^^O  DIUMl^M 

[  Municipal  Government  Act 


Please  provide  your  comments  by  September  10,  1998,  to: 

Alberta  Municipal  Affairs 
Municipal  Services  Branch 
Legislative  Projects  Unit 
17th  Floor  -  10155  102  Street 
Edmonton  AB  T5J  4L4 


/Liberia 

MUNICIPAL  AFFAIRS 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


Item  Page 

1  Correct  Referential  Error  1 

2  Add  Street  Lighting  to  Public  Utility  Definition  1 

3  Add  General  Fee-Charging  Power  for  Councils  1 

4  Add  User  Fees  for  Police  Services  2 

5  Clarify  Control  of  Roads  by  Municipalities  2 

6  Regulate  Electricity  Supply  to  Third  Party  Sellers  2 

7  Clarify  Approval  Process  for  Waste  Management  Agreements  3 

8  Authorize  the  Chief  Administrative  Officer  to  Correct  Minor  Errors  in  Bylaws  3 

9  Dispense  With  Certain  Procedural  Requirements  for  Some  Bylaws  4 

10.  Clarify  Municipal  Disposal  of  Land  for  Less  Than  Market  Value  4 

1 1  Clarify  Separation  of  Land  From  an  Existing  Municipality  to  Form  a  New 
Municipality  5 

12  Change  the  Name  and  Status  of  a  Municipality  by  Ministerial  Order  5 

1 3  Clarify  Dissolution  Orders  6 

14  Cross-Reference  Sections  to  Related  Sections  7 

15  Require  Councillors  Seeking  Municipal  Employment  to  Resign  7 

1 6  Clarify  Eligibility  for  Re-election  of  Disqualified  Councillors  7 

1 7  Strengthen  Enforcement  of  Disqualification  of  Councillors  8 

18  Add  Automatic  Offence  for  Councillors  Breaching  Conflict  of  Interest 
Provisions  8 

1 9  Change  Provisions  for  Appointment  of  Councillors  to  Committees  by  Secret 
Ballot  9 

20  Clarify  Majority  Needed  at  Special  Council  Meetings  to  Address  Matters 
OtherThan  Those  Stated  in  Notice  of  Meeting  9 

21  Allow  Resolutions  at  Private  Council  Meetings  10 

22  Clarify  Chief  Administrative  Officer  Advising  Council  of  Legislative 
Responsibilities  10 

23  Restrict  Petitions  to  Matters  Within  Council's  Jurisdiction  10 

24  Petition  for  a  Resolution  for  a  Vote  of  the  Electorate  11 

25  Provide  Allowance  for  Recovery  of  Municipal  Costs  1 1 

26  Prevent  Liability  Claims  for  Damage  Caused  by  Trees  1 1 

27  Enhance  Municipal  Inspections  and  Enforcement  12 

28  Add  Restoring  Rights-of-Way  Costs  to  the  Tax  Roll  12 

29  Add  Fire-Fighting  Costs  to  the  Tax  Roll  12 

30  Use  Certified  Copies  of  Documents  in  Place  of  Oral  Testimony  13 

31  Use  Certified  Copies  of  Licences  in  Place  of  Oral  Testimony  13 

32  Allow  for  Mandatory  Municipal  Benefit  Plans  13 

33  Clarify  Tax  Exemption  for  Councillors  14 


Requested  Amendments  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act  i 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


Item  Page 

34  Modify  Pipeline  Assessment  Process   21 

35  Amend  "Parcels  of  Land"  and/or  "Improvements"  to  "Property"  21 

36  Adopt  Annual  General  Assessments  21 

37  Clarify  Appointment  of  Municipal  Assessor  22 

38  Provide  Information  Necessary  to  Defend  an  Assessment   22 

39  Obtain  Information  Necessary  to  Prepare  Assessments  23 

40  Clarify  Date  for  Providing  Assessment  Information   24 

41  Deny  Income-Based  Assessment  Appeals   25 

42  Assign  Assessment  Classes  to  Property   25 

43  Clarify  Tax  Treatment  of  Crown  Land  26 

44  Reduce  Qualifiers  for  Travel  Trailer  Exemption   26 

45  Delete  an  Assessed  Person's  Name  from  Municipal  Assessment  Rolls...........  27 

46  Clarify  Assessed  Persons  of  Crown-Owned  Property  27 

47  Assess  Sites  Under  Machinery  and  Equipment   28 

48  Expand  Property  Assessment  of  Industrial  Lease  Sites  28 

49  Delete  an  Assessed  Person's  Name  From  Assessment  Notices  29 

50  Clarify  Definition  of  Requisition  29 

51  Delete  Taxpayer's  Name  From  Municipal  Tax  Rolls   30 

52  Delete  Taxpayer's  Name  From  Tax  Notice  30 

53  Clarify  Recipient  of  Complaint  in  Tax  Notices  30 

54  Add  Deemed  Receipt  of  Electronic  Tax  Payments  31 

55  Clarify  Tax  Refund  on  Non-Residential  Property   31 

56  Clarify  Surplus  Revenues  32 

57  Clarify  Tax  Rates  for  Non-Residential  and  Machinery  and  Equipment 
Assessment  Classes  33 

58  Clarify  Minimum  Property  Tax  Amounts  33 

59  Allow  Flexibility  for  Alberta  School  Foundation  Fund  Requisitions  33 

60  Extend  Qualification  for  Property  Tax  Exemption  Applications...  34 

61  Consolidate  "Seniors'  Use  Property"  References  in  Section  362  34 

62  Change  Property  "Held"  by  a  Health  Region  to  "Owned"  35 

63  Change  Tax  Status  of  Residential  Property  held  by  a  Non-Profit  Organization  35 

64  Tax  Seniors  Housing  Facilities  35 

65  Clarify  Taxing  Non-Profit  Organizations  in  Privately-Owned  Facilities  36 

66  Change  Exemptions  for  Non-Profit  Organizations  37 

67  Clarify  Notice  Provisions  37 

68  Add  Property  Used  and  Held  by  a  Specific  French  Non-Profit  Organization 

as  a  Specific  Exemption   38 

69  Repeal  Exemptions  Granted  by  Bylaw  for  Non-Profit  Organizations  38 

70  Clarify  Tax  Status  of  Licenced  Property  39 

71  Expand  Grants-in-Place-of-Taxes  39 

72  Pro-rate  Property  Assessment  and  Taxation  of  Airport  Leases   40 

73  Add  Another  Method  for  Determining  Business  Assessment  Value  41 

74  Business  Revitalization  Zone  Tax  41 

75  Restrict  Definition  of  Business  for  Exemption  From  Business  Tax  41 

76  Clarify  Tax  Status  of  Linear  Property  in  Business  Premises  42 

77  Change  "Parcel  of  Land"  to  "Property"  in  Special  Tax  Provision  43 

78  Vary  Local  Improvement  Tax  Rate  43 

79  Eliminate  Equalized  Assessments  44 

80  Refund  Overpayment  of  Property  Tax  44 


Requested  Amendments  to  the  Municipal  Govemment  Act  " 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


Item  Page 

81  Allow  Members  to  Sit  on  More  Than  One  Assessment  Review  Board  53 

82  Limit  Right  of  Assessment  Complaint  to  Assessed  Persons  53 

83  Deny  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals  if  Required  Fees  Not  Paid  54 

84  Allow  Assessment  Review  Boards  to  Dismiss  Assessment  Complaints 

for  Lack  of  Evidence  54 

85  Extend  Time  Limit  for  Assessment  Review  Board  Decisions  55 

86  Establish  Maximum  Fees  for  Assessment  Complaints  55 

87  Modify  Assessment  Review  Board  Structure  56 

88  Clarify  Jurisdiction  of  Panels  of  One  for  Assessment  Review  Boards  56 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 

89  Recover  Costs  Related  to  Contaminated  Parcels  59 

90  Deny  Removal  of  Tax  Recovery  Notification  59 

91  Enforce  Collection  of  Rent  for  Tax  Arrears  59 

92  Add  Rural  Electrification  Liens  on  Title  of  Tax  Recovery  Lands  60 

93  Clarify  Acquisition  of  Condominiums  in  Tax  Recovery  Proceedings  61 

94  Add  Provincial  Contributions  to  Costs  of  Contaminated  Sites  61 

95  Clarify  Bidding  for  and  Buying  of  Tax  Recovery  Land  61 

96  Clarify  the  Warning  of  Sale  in  Tax  Recovery  Process  for  Designated 
Manufactured  Homes  62 

97  Enforce  Reporting  Requirements  for  Designated  Manufactured  Homes  62 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 

98  Remove  Retro-activity  of  NRCB  and  EUB  Decisions  67 

99  Add  Mediation  as  a  Prerequisite  to  Dispute  Hearings  67 

1 00  Clarify  Reasonable  Fees  68 

1 01  Require  Intermunicipal  Development  Plans  68 

1 02  Reduce  or  Eliminate  Population  Threshold  for  Municipal  Development  Plans..  68 

1 03  Expand  Mandatory  Provisions  of  Municipal  Development  Plans  69 

1 04  Enforce  Consistency  Between  Land  Use  Bylaws  and  Statutory  Plans  69 

1 05  Clarify  Advertising  Provisions  Regarding  Changes  to  Direct  Control  Districts ..  69 

1 06  Deny  Development  Permit  After  Issuance  of  Stop  Order  70 

1 07  Impose  Fines  Regarding  Non-Compliance  of  Stop  Order  70 

1 08  Modify  Off-site  Levies  71 

1 09  Exempt  Minor  Subdivision  Applications  From  Referral  Process  71 

110  Modify  a  Subdivision  Approval  72 

1 1 1  Clarify  Definition  of  Body  of  Water  72 

1 1 2  Add  Reserve  Dedication  for  Targeted  Housing  73 

1 1 3  Clarify  Use  of  Reserves  for  "School  Authority  Purposes"  73 

1 1 4  Clarify  Disposal  of  Environmental  Reserve  74 

115  Reduce  Subdivision  Appeal  Period  With  Consent  of  All  Parties  74 

1 1 6  Hear  Subdivision  Appeals  at  Local  Level  Only  74 


Requested  Amendments  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development  (continued) 

117  Clarify  Relationship  Between  Land  Use  Policies  and  Statutory  Plans  75 

1 1 8  Clarify  Development  Appeal  Process  75 

1 1 9  Apply  Evidentiary  Matters  to  Subdivision  and  Development  Appeal  Board 
Hearings   76 

120  Allow  Development  Permit  and  Redistricting  Application  to  Vary  Appeal 

Board  Decision  ....76 

121  Remove  Municipal  Address  in  Notice  Provisions  for  Land  Use  Bylaw 
Amendments  77 

122  Allow  or  Prohibit  Conditions  on  Land  Use  District  Redesignations  77 

123  Clarify  Jurisdiction  of  the  Municipal  Government  Board  Regarding  Municipal 
Fringe  Matters  78 


Requested  Amendments  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act  'v 


E 


Correct  Referential  Error 


Section  1(1  )(n)  defines  "market  value". 

Tliere  is  a  referential  error  in  this  section  where  it  refers  to  section  284(r).  This 
reference  should  read, "      as  defined  in  section  284(1  )(r)". 

It  is  requested  that  section  1(1  )(n)  be  amended  to  correct  the  referential 
error. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


2      Add  Street  Lighting  to  Public  Utility  Definition 


The  definition  of  "public  utility"  in  the  Municipal  Government  Act  (MGA)  includes 
systems  or  works  to  provide  water  or  steam,  sewage  disposal,  public 
transportation,  irrigation,  drainage,  fuel,  electric  power,  heat,  and  waste 
management.  The  definition  does  not  include  street  lighting. 

It  is  requested  that  section  1(1  )(y)  be  amended  to  include  residential  and 
commercial  street  lighting  in  the  definition  of  public  utility  so  that 
municipalities  could  bill  properties  for  this  service  on  an  ongoing  basis. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Rocky  View  No.  44. 


3      Add  General  Fee-Charging  Power  for  Councils 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  section  7  does  not  give  council  a  general  power 
to  charge  fees. 

It  is  requested  that  section  7  be  amended  to  give  council  a  general  fee- 
charging  power. 

Sections  8(c)(i)  and  (ii)  give  council  the  power  to  pass  bylaws  setting  fees  for 
licences,  permits  and  approvals,  including  those  that  may  be  in  the  nature  of  a 
reasonable  tax  for  the  activity  authorized,  for  the  purpose  of  raising  revenue,  or 
providing  that  fees  can  be  higher  for  persons  or  businesses  who  do  not  reside  or 
maintain  a  place  of  business  in  the  municipality. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


1 


E 


Add  User  Fees  for  Police  Services 


The  previous  MGA  specifically  prescribed  the  bylaw-making  powers  of 
municipalities,  including  specific  authority  to  charge  fees  as  part  of  the  bylaw. 
The  1995  rewrite  of  the  MGA  introduced  the  concepts  of  natural  person  powers 
and  broad  spheres  of  jurisdiction  to  guide  municipal  governance. 

Some  municipalities  have  raised  the  concern  that  their  general  jurisdiction  to 
pass  bylaws  is  not  specific  enough  and  can  be  challenged. 

It  is  requested  that  a  provision  be  added  to  specifically  allow  municipalities 
to  charge  fees  for  the  provision  of  certain  police  services. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


5      Clarify  Control  of  Roads  by  Municipalities 


Part  3,  Division  2  outlines  municipal  powers  regarding  roads.  Section  18 
specifies  that  a  municipality  has  the  direction,  control  and  management  of  all 
roads  within  the  municipality,  subject  to  certain  limitations.  If  a  council  wants  to 
close  a  road,  it  must  follow  the  procedures  outlined  in  section  22.  Unless  a  road 
is  formally  closed,  it  is  deemed  to  be  open  and  thereby  providing  legal  but  not 
necessarily  physical  access. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  state  that  roads  are  only 
considered  open  to  vehicular  traffic  if  council  so  authorizes. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


6      Regulate  Electricity  Supply  to  Third  Party  Sellers 


The  MGA  has  provisions  regarding  the  regulation  of  gas  supply  obtained  from 
direct  sellers  and  allows  the  council  of  a  municipality  to  enter  into  a  tax 
agreement  with  an  operator  of  a  public  utility  which  supplies  fuel. 

No  such  provisions  exist  with  respect  to  electricity,  nor  does  a  municipality  have 
the  ability  to  collect  revenues  on  the  value  of  the  electricity  being  transported  for 
a  third  party. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Adnninistration 


2 


It  is  requested  that: 

a)  a  new  section  be  added  for  electricity  which  would  be  the  equivalent 
of  section  31  (which  addresses  regulation  of  a  gas  supply  obtained 
from  direct  sellers  through  municipal  distributors);  and 

b)  section  360(4)  be  amended  to  add  "or  electricity"  after  the  five 
references  to  "fuel"  in  that  section. 

These  changes  may  be  altered  depending  on  the  proposed  electrical 
deregulation. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


7      Clarify  Approval  Process  for  Waste  Management  Agreements 


The  definition  of  public  utility  in  the  MGA  includes  a  system  or  works  for  waste 
management.  Where  a  council  wants  to  enter  into  an  agreement  with  a  person 
to  supply  a  public  utility  service,  the  agreement  must  be  advertised  and  be 
approved  by  the  Energy  and  Utilities  Board  (EUB). 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  approval  by  the  EUB  for  the  collection  of 
waste  in  a  municipality  is  unnecessary  and  cumbersome. 

It  is  requested  that  section  45  be  amended  to  reflect  that  the  involvement  of 
the  EUB  in  respect  of  waste  management  agreements  is  on  a  complaint 
basis  only. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  EUB  and  some  municipalities. 


8     Authorize  the  Chief  Administrative  Officer  to  Correct  Minor 
Errors  in  Bylaws 


Section  63(2)(h)  provides  for  the  passage  of  a  bylaw  to  authorize  the  correction 
of  clerical,  grammatical  and  typographical  errors  in  bylaws. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  process  is  unduly  lengthy  and  complicated 
for  the  task. 

It  is  requested  that  section  63(2)(h)  be  amended  to  provide  that  the  power 
to  correct  minor  errors  in  bylaws  be  delegated  in  the  authorizing  bylaw  to 
the  chief  administrative  officer. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Fort  Saskatchewan. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


3 


9 


Dispense  With  Certain  Procedural  Requirements  for  Some  Bylaws 


Section  65  provides  for  the  passage  of  revised  bylaws  which  are  in  substitution 
for  existing  bylaws.  It  states  that  "Revised  bylaws  that  are  in  effect  are  deemed 
to  have  been  passed  as  if  all  the  requirements  respecting  the  passing  and 
approval  of  the  bylaws  for  which  the  revised  bylaws  are  substituted  have  been 
complied  with." 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  MGA  is  unclear  about  whether  council  can 
bypass  procedural  steps  required  to  amend  a  bylaw  where  the  amendment  is 
simply  a  consolidation. 

It  is  requested  that  section  65  be  amended  to  state  specifically  that  when 
council  enacts  a  revision  of  a  bylaw,  council  may  dispense  with  certain 
procedural  requirements,  such  as  hearings  or  advertisements,  if  the 
revision  does  not  make  a  substantive  change  to  the  existing  bylaw. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


10    Clarify  IVIunicipal  Disposal  of  Land  for  Less  Than  Market  Value 


Section  70  requires  that,  with  certain  stated  exceptions,  a  municipality  must 
advertise  any  proposal  to  transfer  or  grant  an  estate  or  interest  in  land  for  less 
than  its  market  value.  This  means  that  a  municipality  cannot  dispose  of  land  for 
anything  under  market  value  without  first  alerting  the  public  of  its  intention. 

There  is  a  concern  that  the  inclusion  of  the  term  "transfer"  can  create  problems 
for  a  municipality.  The  underlying  issue  is  that  any  delay  between  the  time  that  a 
municipality  sells  or  leases  its  land  and  the  time  that  title  is  transferred  may 
hinder  the  task  of  determining  whether  the  disposal  price  will  be  less  than  market 
value — and  hence  whether  the  disposal  needs  to  be  advertised. 

It  is  requested  that  section  70  be  amended  by  removing  the  word  "transfer" 
and  substituting  "sell  or  grant  an  estate,  lease,  licence,  permit  or  interest 
in." 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


4 


11     Clarify  Separation  of  Land  From  an  Existing  Municipality  to 
Form  a  New  Municipality 


Section  85(1  )(a)  empowers  the  Minister  to  form  a  municipality  upon  being 
requested  by  the  council  of  a  municipality  or  improvement  district. 

Section  86(b)(ii)  requires  the  Minister,  before  a  municipality  is  formed,  to 
consider  the  viability  of  "any  remaining  municipality"  continuing  to  operate  as  a 
separate  entity. 

Section  103(2)  requires  a  municipality  which  is  initiating  an  amalgamation  to 
notify  its  intention  to  annex  land  which  would  lie  within  the  boundary  of  the 
amalgamated  municipal  authority,  but  is  not  part  of  that  authority. 

Section  103(3)  relieves  a  municipality  of  its  responsibility  under  section  103(2)  if 
the  inlaying  land  comprises  the  area  of  an  existing  municipal  authority. 

Sections  1 13  to  128  contain  provisions  relating  to  the  annexation  of  land  by  one 
municipal  authority  from  another  municipal  authority. 

There  is  a  concern  that  the  specific  provisions  dealing  with  the  annexation  of 
land  from  an  existing  municipality  are  not  matched  by  specific  separation 
provisions  in  the  Division  on  Formation  and  could  invite  challenges  to  a  proposed 
formation. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  in  Part  4  where  necessary  to 
specifically  authorize  the  separation  of  land  from  an  existing  municipality 
for  the  purpose  of  forming  a  new  municipality. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Alberta  Justice. 


12    Change  the  Name  and  Status  of  a  Municipality  by  Ministerial  Order 


Under  section  93,  a  change  in  the  status  of  a  municipality  is  initiated  when  the 
Minister  of  Municipal  Affairs  receives  a  request  from  the  municipality's  council  or 
a  sufficient  petition  from  the  majority  of  electors,  or  is  satisfied  that  the 
municipality  no  longer  meets  the  parcel  size  and  population  requirements  for  its 
existing  status.  Section  96  provides  that  the  status  of  the  municipality  may  then 
be  changed  by  Order  in  Council  upon  the  Minister's  recommendation. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


5 


Under  section  98,  the  name  of  a  municipality  may  be  changed,  on  the 
recommendation  of  the  IVIinister,  by  Order  in  Council  when  the  municipality's 
council  has  requested  the  change. 

The  frequency  of  proposals  for  name  and  status  changes  has  been  increasing, 
meaning  that  Cabinet  has  had  to  devote  more  time  to  such  issues.  However, 
while  municipal  formations,  amalgamations,  annexations  and  dissolutions  may 
be  important  enough  to  deserve  Cabinet's  attention,  the  same  may  not  be  true  of 
name  and  status  changes. 

It  may  be  more  practical  for  name  and  status  changes  to  be  implemented  by 
Ministerial  Order  rather  than  by  Order  in  Council.  If  so,  sections  96  and  98  would 
have  to  be  amended  to  vest  the  appropriate  authority  in  the  Minister.  As  well,  if 
there  were  any  concerns  over  having  one  less  level  of  review  in  the  procedure 
for  changing  a  municipality's  status,  the  Minister's  invitation  of  public  input  on  a 
proposed  change  might  have  to  be  made  mandatory  instead  of  discretionary  (as 
is  presently  the  case  under  section  94). 

It  is  requested  that  sections  96  and  98  be  amended  to  effect  ctianges  in  the 
name  and  status  of  a  municipality  by  Ministerial  Order  instead  of  Order  in 
Council. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


13     Clarify  Dissolution  Orders 


The  MGA  specifies  that  the  Minister  of  Municipal  Affairs  must  undertake  a 
dissolution  study  in  respect  of  a  municipality  if  requested  by  the  council  of  that 
municipality.  The  term  "dissolution"  is  not  defined  in  the  Act  and  has  led  to 
problems  in  distinguishing  it  from  "amalgamation".  The  process  for 
amalgamation  is  different  than  that  for  dissolution. 

To  avoid  confusion  as  to  which  restructuring  process  should  be  followed  in  a 
particular  instance,  it  has  been  suggested  that  the  MGA  allow  the  preparation  of 
a  dissolution  study  by  the  Minister  to  be  discretionary  rather  than  mandatory. 
This  would  allow  some  flexibility  in  the  process  without  predetermining  whether 
the  issue  is  one  of  amalgamation,  formation  or  dissolution. 

It  is  requested  that  section  130(2)(a)  be  amended  to  read  the  Minister  'may' 
rather  than  'must'  undertake  a  dissolution  study. 

It  is  further  requested  that  section  129  be  amended  to  reflect  that  this 
Division  does  not  apply  to  the  dissolution  of  a  municipality  as  a  result  of 
annexation,  amalgamation  or  formation. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Local  Government  Issues,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


6 


14     Cross-Reference  Sections  to  Related  Sections 


There  is  a  concern  that  related  sections  are  spread  throughout  the  MGA  making 
it  more  difficult  to  read,  for  example: 

•  Section  170(3)(g)  stipulates  that  a  councillor  does  not  have  a 
pecuniary  interest  in  a  matter  if  the  interest  is  only  due  to  the  councillor 
or  a  family  member  being  a  member  or  director  of  a  non-profit 
organization. 

•  Section  241  (f)  defines  a  "non-profit  organization"  as  including  a  credit 
union  established  under  a  law  of  Canada  or  Alberta. 

•  Section  250(c)  provides  that  a  municipality  may  invest  its  money  in 
securities  issued  or  guaranteed  by  a  bank,  treasury  branch,  credit 
union  or  trust  company. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  by  cross-referencing  sections  to 
related  sections  or  by  clustering  all  the  provisions  related  to  a  particular 
matter. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Northern  Lights  No.  22. 


15    Require  Councillors  Seeking  Municipal  Employment  to  Resign 


Section  174(1)(j)  provides  that  councillors  are  disqualified  from  council  when 
they  become  employees  of  the  municipality. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  councillors  should  have  to  resign  from 
council  when  they  apply  for  municipal  employment. 

It  is  requested  that  section  174(1)(j)  be  amended  to  provide  that  councillors 
cannot  continue  to  hold  office  when  they  apply  for  employee  positions  with 
the  municipality. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipality  of  Crowsnest  Pass  and  the  Village  of 
Delia. 


16    Clarify  Eligibility  for  Re-election  of  Disqualified  Councillors 


Section  174(4)  provides  that  councillors  who  are  disqualified  under  section  174 
are  eligible  to  be  elected  at  the  next  general  election  if  they  are  otherwise  eligible 
for  nomination. 

There  is  a  concern  that  the  section  does  not  deter  councillors  from  disqualifying 
conduct.  There  is  a  request  to  have  the  period  of  ineligibility  increased. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


7 


It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  provide  that  disqualified 
councillors  be  prevented  from  running  in  the  next  general  election  after 
their  disqualification. 

This  issue  was  a  resolution  carried  by  the  members  of  the  Alberta  Association  of 
Municipal  Districts  and  Counties. 


1 7    Strengthen  Enforcement  of  Disqualification  of  Councillors 


Section  175(1)  provides  that  councillors  who  are  disqualified  {as  per  174(1)} 
must  resign.  If  the  councillor  does  not  resign,  section  175(2)  allows  council  or  an 
elector  to  apply  to  the  Court  for  an  order  to  have  an  apparently  disqualified 
councillor  disqualified  or  stating  that  a  person  was  never,  or  has  ceased  to  be, 
qualified  to  be  a  councillor. 

The  MGA  does  not  specifically  state  that  a  disqualified  councillor  is  removed 
from  council  or  cannot  exercise  the  office  of  a  councillor  until  a  judgment  is 
rendered.  If  the  councillor  simply  ignores  the  situation,  including  council's 
position  that  disqualification  has  occurred,  or  contests  the  view  that 
disqualification  has  occurred,  the  MGA  does  not  allow  council  to  declare  that  the 
councillor  is  disqualified  on  its  own  motion. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  provide  that  disqualified 
councillors  cannot  continue  to  hold  office. 

This  issue  was  a  resolution  carried  by  the  members  of  the  Alberta  Association  of 
Municipal  Districts  and  Counties. 


18    Add  Automatic  Offence  for  Councillors  Breaching  Conflict  of 
Interest  Provisions 


Division  6  of  Part  5  of  the  MGA  sets  out  when  a  councillor  is  in  a  conflict  of 
interest  position  and  what  the  consequences  are.  Division  5  of  Part  13  sets  out 
offences.  Section  566  prescribes  a  maximum  penalty  for  an  offence. 

Contravening  the  conflict  of  interest  provisions  is  not  automatically  an  offence,  as 
it  and  similar  actions  were  under  the  old  MGA.  Presently,  although  the  maximum 
penalty  is  higher,  more  steps  are  required  to  have  the  councillor's  actions 
classified  as  an  offence.  An  order  must  be  issued  to  the  councillor  under  section 
545.  The  councillor  must  then  contravene  the  order  to  commit  the  offence. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Govemance  and  Administration 


8 


There  is  a  concern  that  the  provisions  for  penalizing  councillors  who  breach 
conflict  of  interest  provisions  are  too  lax  or  cumbersome. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  provide  an  automatic  offence 
and  penalties  for  councillors  breaching  conflict  of  interest  provisions. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Westlock  No.  92. 


19    Change  Provisions  for  Appointment  of  Councillors  to 
Committees  by  Secret  Ballot   


A  provision  was  added  to  the  MGA  in  1998  to  allow  that  where  council  appoints 
the  Chief  Elected  Official,  or  council  members  to  council  committees  or  boards, 
the  voting  can  be  done  by  secret  ballot,  but  the  appointment  must  be  confirmed 
by  resolution. 

A  concern  was  raised  that  this  section  does  not  appear  to  do  what  was  intended. 
It  appears  to  a  stakeholder  that  the  section  only  allows  a  secret  ballot  for 
establishing  a  committee  and  not  membership  on  the  committee. 

It  is  requested  that  section  185. 1  be  amended  to  allow  for  the  appointment 
of  councillors  to  committees  by  secret  ballot. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert. 


20    Clarify  Majority  Needed  at  Special  Council  Meetings  to  Address 
Matters  Other  Than  Those  Stated  in  Notice  of  Meeting 


Section  194(5)  limits  the  matters  transacted  at  a  special  council  meeting  to  those 
stated  in  the  notice  of  the  meeting  "unless  the  whole  council  is  present  at  the 
meeting  and  the  council  agrees  to  deal  with"  another  matter. 

The  present  wording  does  not  state  explicitly  that  the  whole  council  must  agree 
to  specifically  deal  with  another  matter. 

It  is  requested  that  section  194(5)  be  clarified  as  to  whether  the  whole 
council  must  vote  unanimously  to  deal  with  any  other  matter. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Northern  Lights  No.  22. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


9 


21    Allow  Resolutions  at  Private  Council  Meetings 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  section  197(3)  does  not  allow  resolutions  at 
private  council  nneetings  other  than  to  revert  to  a  public  meeting.  This  does  not 
allow  council  to  instruct  its  negotiators  or  legal  counsel  confidentially  respecting 
collective  bargaining  agreements  or  dispute  resolution  matters.  This  prevents 
the  negotiators  from  having  clear  instructions  on  their  task. 

It  is  requested  that  section  197(3)  be  amended  by  adding  provisions 
allowing  a  resolution  to  instruct  negotiators  respecting  collective 
bargaining  agreements  or  dispute  resolution  matters. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


22    Clarify  Chief  Administrative  Officer  Advising  Council  of 
Legislative  Responsibilities  


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  new  section  208(1  )(o)  is  unclear  as  to  the 
meaning  of  "legislative  responsibilities"  and  places  too  great  a  burden  on 
administrators. 

It  is  requested  that  section  208(1 )(o)  either  be  amended  by  providing  a 
definition  of  'legislative  responsibilities",  or  repeal  the  section. 

An  Interpretation  Bulletin  providing  clarification  of  the  new  section  has  been 
prepared  and  distributed  to  all  municipalities. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Taber. 


23    Restrict  Petitions  to  Matters  Within  Council's  Jurisdiction 


The  MGA  allows  municipalities  to  receive  petitions  and  hold  a  vote  of  the 
electorate  on  any  matter  within  their  jurisdiction  or  to  obtain  information. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  petition  provisions  are  too  broad  and 
councils  are  receiving  petitions  on  matters  outside  their  jurisdiction  or  on  which 
they  cannot  act  (such  as  Video  Lottery  Terminals  where  councils  cannot  remove 
Video  Lottery  Terminals  themselves,  but  can  only  ask  the  body  with  authority  to 
act  as  per  the  wishes  of  the  municipality's  voters). 

It  is  requested  that  the  provisions  allowing  for  petitions  be  restricted  to 
allow  only  those  petitions  (on  subjects)  which  are  within  municipal 
jurisdiction. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


10 


24    Petition  for  a  Resolution  for  a  Vote  of  ttie  Electorate 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  where  petitioners  wish  to  have  a  question  put  on 
the  ballot  for  a  vote  of  the  electorate,  the  petition  sections  only  allow  this  through 
passage  of  a  bylaw.  This  process  is  seen  as  too  cunnbersome  as  plebiscites  are 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  council. 

It  is  requested  that  section  232  be  amended  to  allow  the  electors  to  petition 
for  a  resolution  to  have  a  question  on  any  matter  within  the  jurisdiction  of 
council  voted  on  by  the  electorate. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


25    Provide  Allowance  for  Recovery  of  Municipal  Costs 


Section  243  provides  that  a  municipality  must  prepare  an  operating  budget  that 
includes  the  estimated  amounts  needed  to  provide  for  programs.  The  costs 
related  to  taxation  would  be  considered  a  program  and  should  be  included  with 
the  expenditures  of  the  operating  budget. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  allow  for  a  collection  allowance 
to  offset  the  municipal  costs  of  preparation  of  the  tax  roll,  production  and 
mailing  of  notices,  collection  of  taxes  and  handling  of  tax  appeals. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Grande  Prairie. 


26    Prevent  Liability  Claims  for  Damage  Caused  by  Trees 


Section  528  protects  a  municipality  from  actions  based  on  nuisance  or  any  other 
tort  that  does  not  require  a  finding  of  intention  or  negligence.  The  damage  must 
arise  from  roads  or  the  operation/non-operation  of  a  public  utility  or  a  dike,  ditch 
or  dam. 

There  is  a  concern  that  the  MGA  does  not  protect  municipalities  for  claims  based 
on  damage  caused  by  trees  or  roots  of  trees  on  city  land. 

It  is  requested  that  a  provision  be  added  protecting  municipalities  from 
liability  for  damage  caused  by  trees. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


11 


27    Enhance  Municipal  Inspections  and  Enforcement 


The  MGA  outlines  the  conditions  under  which  a  municipality  may  enter  on  land  to 
investigate  lack  of  compliance  with  municipal  bylaws,  including  land  use  bylaws. 

Concerns  have  been  raised  that  these  provisions  have  rendered  municipal 
enforcement  time-consuming  and  ineffective. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  provide  municipalities  the 
same  inspection  opportunities  as  those  of  safety  codes  officers  under  the 
Safety  Codes  Act. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


28    Add  Restoring  Rights-of-Way  Costs  to  the  Tax  Roll 


Section  553  allows  a  municipality  to  add  certain  types  of  amounts  to  the  tax  roll 
on  a  parcel  of  land.  These  include  unpaid  costs  or  charges  for  utilities,  cleanup, 
or  action  by  the  municipality  to  remedy  some  problem  with  respect  to  the  parcel. 

There  is  a  concern  that  when  a  licence  of  occupation  for  a  right-of-way  expires, 
the  municipality  must  pursue  the  licensee  in  a  debt  action  for  its  restoration  costs 
if  the  licensee  has  not,  as  agreed,  restored  the  parcel  to  the  necessary  condition. 
The  MGA  does  not  allow  the  municipality  to  add  these  costs  to  the  tax  roll. 

It  is  requested  that  section  553  be  amended  to  allow  a  municipality  to  add 
restoration  of  rights-of-way  costs  to  the  tax  roll  when  the  licensee  does  not 
restore  the  right-of-way  to  the  necessary  condition  at  the  termination  of  the 
licence. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


29    Add  Fire-Fighting  Costs  to  the  Tax  Roll 


Section  553  provides  that  council  may  add  certain  amounts  to  the  tax  roll  of  a 
parcel  of  land. 

It  is  requested  that  section  553  be  amended  to  allow  council  to  add  the 
costs  of  fighting  fires  to  the  tax  roll.  The  requested  amendment  would 
allow  municipalities  to  allocate  costs  where  they  felt  it  was  appropriate  and 
where  they  had  passed  a  bylaw  authorizing  such  allocations. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  County  of  Minburn  No.  27. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Adnninistration 


12 


30    Use  Certified  Copies  of  Documents  in  Place  of  Oral  Testimony 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  members  of  the  public  and  businesses  are 
inconvenienced  in  municipal  business  licence  bylaw  prosecutions  by, 
respectively,  having  to  appear  in  court  to  authenticate  documents  required  to  be 
kept  as  a  condition  of  the  licence,  and  having  those  documents,  which  are 
necessary  for  day-to-day  business,  seized  and  therefore  unavailable  until  the 
proceedings  conclude. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  (560.1)  be  added  to  allow  a  peace  officer 
to  issue  a  certificate  respecting,  or  make  a  certified  copy  of,  a  document 
that  is  required  to  be  kept  as  a  condition  of  a  licence,  and  to  allow  that 
certificate  or  certified  copy  to  be  entered  as  prima  facie  evidence  of  the 
facts  stated  in  the  documents  without  proof  of  the  signature  of  the  person 
signing  or  completing  the  document  or  record. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


31     Use  Certified  Copies  of  Licences  in  Place  of  Oral  Testimony 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  too  much  municipal  staff  time  is  spent  testifying 
in  court  proceedings  to  the  existence  of  a  municipal  business  licence  in 
prosecutions  of  business  licence  violations. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  (564. 1)  be  added  to  allow  a  certificate 
respecting,  or  a  certified  copy  of,  a  licence  to  be  entered  as  prima  facie 
evidence  of  the  existence  of  a  business  licence  without  proof  of  the 
signature  of  the  person  signing  it. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


32    Allow  for  Mandatory  Municipal  Benefit  Plans 


The  previous  legislation  allowed  a  municipality  to  enter  into  a  compulsory 
scheme  with  a  union  to  provide  and  deliver  benefits  not  subject  to  individual 
collective  bargaining. 

While  the  current  MGA  allows  a  municipality  to  enter  Into  agreements,  there  is  a 
concern  that  the  general  bylaw-making  powers  and  the  natural  person  powers 
are  not  sufficient  to  prevent  individual  unions  or  employee  groups  from 
withdrawing  from  a  benefit  plan  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Labour 
Relations  Code.  The  argument  is  that  if  membership  is  optional,  unions  will 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


13 


move  in  and  out  of  the  plan  to  such  an  extent  that  the  plan  will  become 
unworkable. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  by: 

•  adding  a  new  section  which  wouid  ailow  a  municipality,  by  bylaw 
to  set  up,  contract  for  and  maintain  a  benefit  plan  for  civic 
employees  or  any  group  thereof,  fire-fighters  and  police  officers. 

•  adding  an  additional  section  which  would  allow  the  municipality 
to  require  membership  in  and  contributions  to  the  benefit  plan  by 
all  employees  as  a  condition  of  employment  and  to  compel 
employee  groups  to  participate  in  the  plan. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


33    Clarify  Tax  Exemption  for  Councillors 


The  previous  legislation  provided  that  "A  council  may  provide  for  the  payment  of 
reasonable  allowances  for  travelling  and  for  subsistence  and  out  of  pocket 
expenses  incurred  in  attending  meetings  affecting  the  municipality,  which  shall 
be  paid  to  members  in  the  manner  and  at  the  rates  provided  by  the  resolution." 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  traditional  1/3  income  tax  exemption  for 
councillors  may  not  be  available  unless  a  deeming  clause  is  inserted  in  the  MGA. 
Apparently  some  Revenue  Canada  personnel  have  taken  the  position  that  if  this 
expense  allowance  has  not  been  statutorily  authorized,  it  is  taxable.  This  would 
also  affect  any  amounts  paid  to  councillors  as  a  result  of  their  appointment  to  a 
committee. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  include  a  provision  to  alleviate 
Revenue  Canada's  concern. 

Between  the  federal  Income  Tax  Act  section  81(3),  Revenue  Canada's 
Information  Bulletin  IT-292,  and  Custom  Clearing  House's  Canadian  Tax  Reports 
commentary,  it  appears  that  either  a  deeming  clause  In  the  appropriate  Act  by 
the  provincial  govemment,  or  a  resolution  or  bylaw  by  the  local  government  for 
the  payment  and  the  payment  itself  is  required  to  activate  the  exemption. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Fort  Saskatchewan  and  the  Municipal 
District  of  Northern  Lights  No.  22. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


14 


X)     Requested  Amendments  for  1999  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act 
Comments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


Respondent:  

Position:   

Representing:  

1      Correct  Referential  Error 


2     Add  Street  Lighting  to  Public  Utility  Definition 


3     Add  General  Fee-Charging  Power  for  Councils 


4     Add  User  Fees  for  Police  Services 


5     Clarify  Control  of  Roads  by  Municipalities 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


15 


6     Regulate  Electricity  Supply  to  Third  Party  Sellers 


7     Clarify  Approval  Process  for  Waste  Management  Agreennents 


8     Authorize  the  Chief  Administrative  Officer  to  Correct  Minor  Errors  in  Bylaws 


9     Dispense  With  Certain  Procedural  Requirements  for  Some  Bylaws 


1 0    Clarify  Municipal  Disposal  of  Land  for  Less  Than  Market  Value 


1 1    Clarify  Separation  of  Land  From  an  Existing  Municipality  to  Form  a  New 
Municipality 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


16 


12    Change  the  Name  and  Status  of  a  Municipality  by  Ministerial  Order 


13    Clarify  Dissolution  Orders 


14    Cross-Reference  Sections  to  Related  Sections 


15    Require  Councillors  Seeking  Municipal  Employment  to  Resign 


16    Clarify  Eligibility  for  Re-election  of  Disqualified  Councillors 


17    Strengthen  Enforcement  of  Disqualification  of  Councillors 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


17 


18    Add  Automatic  Offence  for  Councillors  Breaching  Conflict  of  Interest 
Provisions 


19    Change  Provisions  for  Appointment  of  Councillors  to  Committees  by  Secret 
Ballot 


20    Clarify  Majority  Needed  at  Special  Council  Meetings  to  Address  Matters 
Other  Than  Those  Stated  in  Notice  of  Meeting 


21    Allow  Resolutions  at  Private  Council  Meetings 


22    Clarify  Chief  Administrative  Officer  Advising  Council  of  Legislative 
Responsibilities 


23    Restrict  Petitions  to  Matters  Within  Council's  Jurisdiction 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


18 


24    Petition  for  a  Resolution  for  a  Vote  of  the  Electorate 


25    Provide  Allowance  for  Recovery  of  Municipal  Costs 


26    Prevent  Liability  Claims  for  Damage  Caused  by  Trees 


27    Enhance  Municipal  Inspections  and  Enforcement 


28    Add  Restoring  Rights-of-Way  Costs  to  the  Tax  Roll 


29    Add  Fire-Fighting  Costs  to  the  Tax  Roll 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


19 


30    Use  Certified  Copies  of  Documents  in  Place  of  Oral  Testimony 


31    Use  Certified  Copies  of  Licences  in  Place  of  Oral  Testimony 


32    Allow  for  Mandatory  Municipal  Benefit  Plans 


33    Clarify  Tax  Exemption  for  Councillors 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Governance  and  Administration 


20 


AMENDMENTS 

relating  to 


Assessment  and  Taxation 


34    Modify  Pipeline  Assessment  Process 


Section  292  provides  tinat  an  assessment  for  linear  property  would  be  based 
upon  a  report  by  the  operator  provided  to  the  Minister  by  Decennber  31 .  Section 
304  provides  that  the  assessed  person  for  linear  property  is  the  operator  of  the 
linear  property  as  defined  in  section  284. 

The  department  is  considering  a  change  to  its  process  when  preparing 
assessments  for  pipelines.  It  is  proposing  to  use  information  filed  at  the  Alberta 
Energy  and  Utilities  Board  (AEUB),  rather  than  a  reliance  on  self-reporting,  as 
the  basis  for  the  calculation  of  the  pipeline  assessment.  Because  AEUB  records 
would  be  used,  the  liability  for  the  taxes  would  therefore  be  with  the  licensee. 

It  is  requested  that  sections  284(1 )(p)  and  304(1 )(i)  be  amended  to  provide 
for  this  revised  process. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Assessment  Services  Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs. 


35    Amend  "Parcels  of  Land"  and/or  "Improvements"  to  "Property 


The  MGA  uses  the  terms  "parcels  of  land,"  "improvements,"  and  "property." 

It  is  requested  that  the  reference  to  "parcels  of  land"  and/or 
"improvements"  throughout  the  MGA  be  amended  to  read  "property"  as 
defined  in  section  284(1 )(r). 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


36    Adopt  Annual  General  Assessments 


Section  285  states  that  each  municipality  must  prepare  an  assessment  annually 
for  each  property  in  the  municipality,  except  for  the  property  specifically  listed  in 
section  298.  Section  286,  which  provided  for  the  adoption  of  assessments,  but 
not  in  two  consecutive  years,  expired  on  December  31 ,  1997.  Sections  287  and 
288,  relating  to  adopted  assessments,  expired  on  the  same  day. 

Smaller  communities  have  raised  the  issue  of  financial  hardship  in  preparing 
assessments  annually. 

It  is  requested  that  section  286  be  re-enacted  to  allow  smaller 
municipalities  to  adopt  an  assessment  roll  every  other  year. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


21 


If  section  286  is  re-enacted,  sections  287  and  288  may  also  need  to  be 
re-enacted. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Town  of  Bashaw. 


37    Clarify  Appointment  of  Municipal  Assessor 


Section  289  provides  that  a  municipality  must  appoint  an  assessor  to  prepare 
assessments  on  property  other  than  those  prepared  for  linear  assessments. 
This  section  does  not  refer  to  the  qualifications  which  the  assessor  must  have  to 
prepare  assessments  for  a  municipality. 

A  municipality  must  advise  who  the  appointed  assessor  is  when  reporting  their 
equalized  assessment  to  the  department,  but  it  is  sometimes  unclear  as  to  who 
that  person  is,  especially  if  an  assessment  company  has  been  contracted. 

There  is  a  suggestion  that  the  MGA  be  amended  so  that  the  assessor  appointed 
by  a  municipality  must  meet  the  qualifications  established  in  a  regulation  under 
section  322(a). 

It  is  requested  that  section  289  be  amended  to  add  "who  meets  the 
qualifications  as  stated  in  the  regulation"  after  "municipality." 

The  proposed  Qualifications  of  Assessor  Regulation  would  be  drafted  so  as  not 
to  be  exclusive,  but  instead  would  include  members  of  the  Alberta  Association  of 
the  Appraisal  Institute  of  Canada  and  the  International  Association  of  Assessing 
Officers  and  any  other  valuation  professional  who  met  the  same  standards.  This 
would  ensure  that  municipalities  are  using  qualified  assessment  professionals  as 
their  appointed  assessor. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Assessors'  Association.  The  request  to  be 
included  in  the  proposed  regulation  was  made  by  the  Alberta  Association  of  the 
Appraisal  Institute  of  Canada  and  the  International  Association  of  Assessing 
Officers. 


38    Provide  Information  Necessary  to  Defend  an  Assessment 


Section  295(1)  states  that  a  person  must  provide,  on  request  by  the  assessor, 
any  information  necessary  for  the  assessor  to  prepare  an  assessment  or 
determine  if  a  property  is  to  be  assessed. 

A  request  has  been  brought  forward  to  amend  295(1)  and  related  sections  to 
state  clearly  that  the  information  that  must  be  provided  includes  information 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


22 


necessary  to  assist  the  assessor  in  defending  a  municipal  assessment,  and  to 
assist  the  assessor  in  enforcing  the  requirement  to  provide  the  information. 

It  is  requested  that  section  294(1)  be  amended  as  foilows: 

After  giving  reasonable  notice  to  the  owner  or  occupier  of  any  property,  an 
assessor  may  at  any  reasonable  time,  for  the  purposes  of  preparing  an 
assessment  of  the  property,  determining  if  the  property  is  to  be  assessed, 
or  defending  a  municipal  assessment, 

(a)  enter  and  inspect  the  property, 

(b)  request  anything  to  be  produced  to  assist  the  assessor  in 
preparing  the  assessment,  in  determining  if  the  property  is  to  be 
assessed,  or  in  defending  a  municipal  assessment,  and 

(c)  make  copies  of  anything  necessary  to  the  inspection. 

It  is  requested  that  section  295(1)  be  amended  as  follows: 

A  person  must  provide,  on  request  by  the  assessor,  any  information 
necessary  for  the  assessor  to  prepare  an  assessment,  to  determine  if 
property  is  to  be  assessed,  or  to  defend  a  municipal  assessment. 

It  is  requested  that  section  296(1 )(b)  be  amended  as  follows: 

(b)  refuses  to  produce  anything  requested  by  an  assessor  to  assist 
the  assessor  in  preparing  an  assessment,  in  determining  if  property 
is  to  be  assessed,  or  in  defending  a  municipal  assessment. 

It  is  requested  that  section  296(2)(b)  be  amended  as  follows: 

(b)  requiring  a  person  to  produce  anything  requested  by  an  assessor 
to  assist  the  assessor  in  preparing  an  assessment,  in  determining  if 
property  is  to  be  assessed,  or  in  defending  a  municipal  assessment. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


39    Obtain  Information  Necessary  to  Prepare  Assessments 


The  Municipal  Government  Amendment  Act,  1998,  introduced  a  new  section 
295(4).  It  states  that  no  person  may  make  an  assessment  complaint  if  the 
person  has  failed  to  provide  the  information  requested  under  section  295(1)  on 
or  before  February  15  of  the  year  following  the  assessment  year. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


23 


Concerns  have  been  brought  forward  addressing  the  wording  of  this  amendment 
with  respect  to  the  "information  requested."  Section  295(1)  refers  to  "information 
necessary"  to  prepare  an  assessment  while  section  295(4)  refers  to  "information 
requested."  The  concern  expressed  is  that  the  assessor  may  request 
information  which  is  not  necessary  to  prepare  the  assessment. 

It  is  requested  that  section  295(4)  be  amended  to  replace  "information 
requested"  with  "information  necessary." 

Section  295(4)  refers  to  "infonnnatlon  requested  under  subsection  (1)."  The  test 
of  the  information  being  "necessary"  is  therefore  included  by  this  reference. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  several  tax  representatives. 


40    Clarify  Date  for  Providing  Assessment  Information 


Concern  has  been  raised  about  section  295(4)  regarding  the  date  by  which 
information  required  to  prepare  an  assessment  must  be  provided.  Assessors  are 
preparing  the  assessments  within  a  municipality  during  the  entire  assessment 
year  with  the  bulk  of  the  data  collection  and  valuation  analysis  completed  prior  to 
year  end.  Therefore,  the  information  necessary  to  prepare  the  assessments, 
specifically  valuation  parameter  setting  Information  such  as  income  and  expense 
data,  should  be  provided  much  earlier  in  the  process. 

Inventory  type  Information  is  primarily  compiled  in  the  fall  of  the  year  and 
therefore  it  may  be  unrealistic  to  request  that  information  be  provided  any  earlier 
than  December  31  of  the  assessment  year.  Assessments  must  reflect  the 
characteristics  and  physical  conditions  as  of  December  31  of  the  year  prior  to  the 
taxation  year. 

It  is  requested  that  section  295(4)  be  amended  by  one  or  more  of  the 
following  options: 

a)  change  the  February  15  date  to  November  1  of  the  assessment 
year  for  valuation  parameter  setting  information  and  to  December 
31  of  the  assessment  year  for  inventory  type  information,  or 

b)  change  the  February  15  date  to  December  1  of  the  assessment 
year  for  valuation  parameter  setting  information  and  to  December 
31  for  inventory  type  information,  or 

c)  change  the  February  15  date  to  60  days  after  receiving  the 
request  for  information  with  final  inventory  type  information  to  be 
provided  by  December  31  of  the  assessment  year,  or 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


24 


d)  change  the  February  15  date  to  December  31  after  receiving  the 
assessor's  request  by  December  1. 

Several  municipalities  and  the  Assessment  Services  Brancli  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs  have  requested  a  change  to  the  section,  but  have  suggested  different 
dates  and  timelines  for  providing  the  information. 


4 1    Deny  Income-Based  Assessment  Appeals 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  assessment  appeals  on  income-based 
assessments  are  allowed  even  when  the  municipality  cannot  obtain  income 
information  from  the  property  owner. 

It  is  requested  that  section  295(4)  be  amended  to  prevent  an  income-based 
assessment  appeal  where  the  owner  refuses  to  provide  the  assessors  with 
income  information  necessary  to  calculate  the  assessment. 

Section  295(4)  already  prevents  an  appeal  being  made  when  income  information 
necessary  to  prepare  an  assessment  is  not  provided  on  request. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Grande  Prairie. 


42    Assign  Assessment  Classes  to  Property 


The  MGA  currently  states  that  property  may  be  classed  into  one  of  the  following 
four  classes: 

1)  residential; 

2)  non-residential; 

3)  farm  land;  and 

4)  machinery  and  equipment. 

A  concern  was  raised  about  the  classing  restrictions  in  section  297  when 
assigning  classes  for  farm  buildings. 

It  is  requested  that  section  297  be  amended  to  allow  farm  buildings  to  be 
classified  as  farm  property  and  be  taxed  at  the  same  level  as  farm  land  in 
an  urban  municipality. 

In  addition,  there  is  a  suggestion  that  recreation  properties  such  as  golf  courses 
and  arenas  be  classed  separately  at  a  lower  municipal  property  tax  rate. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  class  be  allowed  for  sports  and  recreation 
properties. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


25 


The  farm  building  issue  was  raised  by  the  Honourable  Lome  Taylor,  MLA, 
Cypress-Medicine  Hat  and  the  Assessment  Services  Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs. 

The  Issue  of  classing  recreation  property  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of 
Rocky  View  No.  44. 


43    Clarify  Tax  Treatment  of  Crown  Land 


Section  298(1  )(j)  provides  an  assessment  exemption  for  property  held  by  the 
Crown  in  a  municipal  district,  improvement  district,  special  area  or  specialized 
municipality  that  is  not  used  or  actively  occupied  by  the  Crown,  or  is  not  occupied 
under  an  interest  or  right  granted  by  the  Crown.  The  exception  is  property 
located  in  hamlets  or  urban  service  areas  of  a  specialized  municipality. 

Urban  and  rural  municipalities  are  treated  differently  with  respect  to  Crown  lands 
as  these  properties  would  be  assessable  in  an  urban  municipality.  The  intent  of 
this  legislation  was  not  to  require  the  large  tracts  of  vacant  Crown  property 
throughout  the  Province  to  be  assessed. 

The  current  wording  has  created  an  issue  in  that  if  an  improved  property  is 
unoccupied  in  a  rural  municipality  the  tax  status  changes  from  grants-in-place-of- 
taxes  to  exempt. 

It  is  requested  that  section  298(1)(j)  be  amended  to  provide  ttiat  "vacant 
property  held  by  the  Crown"  in  a  rural  municipality  that  is  not  used  or 
actively  occupied  by  the  Crown  is  exempt  from  assessment. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County  and  the  Assessment  Services  Branch  of 
Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


44    Reduce  Qualifiers  for  Travel  Trailer  Exemption 


Section  298(1  )(bb)  states  that  an  assessment  is  not  to  be  prepared  for  travel 
trailers  that  are  not  connected  to  any  utility  services  provided  by  a  public  utility 
and  not  attached  or  connected  to  any  structure. 

It  is  requested  that  section  298(1)(bb)  be  amended  so  that  travel  trailers 
only  have  to  meet  one  of  the  criteria  to  be  assessable. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  County  of  Red  Deer. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


26 


45    Delete  an  Assessed  Person 's  Name  From  Municipal  Assessment 
Rolls 


Section  303(b)  provides  that  the  name  and  mailing  address  of  an  assessed 
person  be  included  as  part  of  the  information  in  municipal  rolls. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  since  this  information  is  available  to  the  public, 
privacy  and  even  safety  are  at  risk. 

It  is  requested  that  section  303(b)  be  deleted. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Strathcona  County  and  the  Municipal  District  of  Bighorn 
No.  8. 


46    Clarify  Assessed  Persons  of  Crown-Owned  Property 


Some  concerns  have  been  raised  about  assessed  persons  holding  a  lease, 
licence,  or  permit  from  the  Crown. 

The  first  concern  is  that  it  is  difficult  to  determine  who  the  assessed  person  is 
under  the  provisions  of  section  304(1  )(c). 

Section  416  was  amended  in  1998  to  state  that  where  a  parcel  of  land  described 
in  section  304(1  )(c)  is  held  under  a  lease,  licence  or  permit  from  the  Crown  in 
right  of  Alberta,  the  Crown  must,  on  a  quarterly  basis,  notify  the  municipality  in 
which  the  parcel  is  located  of  any  changes  in  the  status  of  the  lease,  licence  or 
permit. 

The  second  concern  raised  is  that  section  304(1)  does  not  adequately  account 
for  the  assessed  person  being  the  Crown.  Section  304(1  )(a)  provides  for  the 
assessed  person  being  the  owner  of  the  parcel  of  land. 

The  third  concern  raised  regards  the  ability  to  deal  directly  with  the  Crown,  under 
a  grant-in-place-of-taxes  arrangement,  as  dealing  with  tenants  is  inefficient  and 
often  costly. 

Section  366  outlines  the  framework  for  the  payment  of  grants-in-place-of-taxes. 
Subsection  366(5)  allows  the  Crown  to  pay  a  grant  under  this  section,  in  respect 
of  property  where  the  Crown  is  not  the  assessed  person  if,  in  the  Crown's 
opinion,  it  is  appropriate  to  do  so. 

It  is  requested  that  section  304(1 )(c)  be  amended  by  replacing  "the  holder 
of  the  lease,  licence  or  permit"  with  "where  the  holder  is  granted  an  estate, 
lease,  licence,  permit  or  interest. " 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


27 


These  issues  were  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert,  the  Municipal  Government 
Board,  and  Grants  and  Administration,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


47    Assess  Sites  Under  Machinery  and  Equipment 


Section  304(1  )(a)  provides  that  the  assessed  person  for  a  parcel  of  land,  unless 
othenA^ise  specified,  is  the  owner  of  the  parcel  of  land.  Section  304  outlines  the 
different  scenarios  for  assessed  property  and  stipulates  who  the  assessed 
person  is. 

Currently,  a  site  located  under  machinery  and  equipment  is  assessed  to  the 
owner  of  the  parcel  (farm  land  or  other)  at  the  same  rates  as  surrounding  land.  It 
is  only  assessed  to  an  oil  company  when  the  company  owns  both  the  land  and 
the  machinery  and  equipment. 

When  a  municipality  prepares  a  new  assessment  under  the  MGA,  a  market  site 
under  all  machinery  and  equipment  will  be  assessed  to  each  land  owner  when  a 
well  is  not  on  the  same  titled  parcel.  If  a  well  is  located  on  the  same  parcel,  the 
site  assessment  will  reside  with  the  well  and  will  be  assessed  by  Municipal 
Affairs. 

It  is  requested  ttiat  section  304(1 )(g)  be  amended  to  provide  that  the 
assessed  property  will  also  include  a  value  for  the  site  which  would  be 
assessed  to  the  owner  of  the  machinery  and  equipment 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


48    Expand  Property  Assessment  of  Industrial  Lease  Sites 


Section  304(1  )(a)  provides  that  the  assessed  person  for  a  parcel  of  land,  unless 
otherwise  specified,  is  the  owner  of  the  parcel  of  land.  Section  304  outlines  the 
different  scenarios  for  assessed  property  and  stipulates  who  the  assessed 
person  is. 

Currently,  oil  and  gas  well  lease  sites  on  privately-held  farm  land  are  assessed 
and  taxed  directly  to  the  oil  or  gas  company  (the  lessee).  Other  leases  on  farm 
land,  including  buildings  and  improvements,  are  assessed  and  taxed  to  the 
owner  of  the  parcel  (the  farmer).  It  has  been  suggested  that  land  leased  and 
used  as  a  battery  or  gas  compressor  site  should  also  be  assessed  and  taxed 
directly  to  the  oil  or  gas  company. 

It  appears  that  some  municipalities  are  sending  assessment  and  tax  notices  for 
buildings  and  machinery  and  equipment  on  battery  and  compressor  sites  directly 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


28 


to  the  oil  companies.  The  MGA  does  not  provide  for  this;  rather,  the  assessment 
and  tax  notice  should  be  sent  to  the  property  owner. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  [304(1 )(f.  1)]  be  added  to  provide  that 
property,  including  buildings  and  improvements,  used  for  the  purposes  of 
battery  or  compressor  sites  is  to  be  assessed  to  the  lessee. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Farmers'  Advocate  of  Alberta  of  the  department  of 
Alberta  Agriculture,  Food  and  Rural  Development. 


49    Delete  an  Assessed  Person's  Name  From  Assessment  Notices 


Section  309(1  )(a)  provides  that  the  name  and  mailing  address  of  an  assessed 
person  be  included  as  part  of  the  information  in  municipal  assessment  notices. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  since  this  information  is  available  to  the  public, 
privacy  and  even  safety  are  at  risk. 

It  is  requested  that  section  309(1 )(a)  be  deleted. 

Sections  300  and  301  provide  confidentiality  protection. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Strathcona  County  and  the  Municipal  District  of  Bighorn 
No.  8. 


50    Clarify  Definition  of  Requisition 


Section  326(a)(iv)  defines  the  requisition  of  hospital  districts  under  the  Hospitals 
Act,  health  regions  under  the  Regional  Health  Authorities  Act  or  ambulance 
districts  under  the  Ambulance  Services  Act.  However,  neither  the  hospital 
districts  nor  the  health  regions  have  any  authority  to  requisition  municipalities. 

It  is  requested  that  section  326(a)(iv)  be  amended  to  remove  the  reference 
to  hospital  districts  under  the  Hospitals  Act  and  health  regions  under  the 
Regional  Health  Authorities  Act. 

Section  326(a)(v)  refers  to  section  1 1 .2  of  the  Senior  Citizens  Housing  Act,  which 
has  been  repealed.  The  section  also  uses  the  term  "foundation,"  which  is  no 
longer  used. 

It  is  requested  that  section  326(a)(v)  be  amended  to  change  the  reference 
from  section  1 1.2  of  the  Senior  Citizens  Housing  Act  to  section  7  of  the 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


29 


Alberta  Housing  Act,  and  further,  that  the  reference  to  "foundation"  be 
changed  to  the  appropriate  terminology. 

These  issues  were  raised  by  Municipal  Services  Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs. 


51     Delete  Taxpayer's  Name  From  Municipal  Tax  Rolls 


Section  329(b)  provides  that  the  name  and  mailing  address  of  the  taxpayer  be 
included  as  part  of  the  information  in  the  municipal  tax  roll. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  since  this  information  is  available  to  the  public, 
privacy  and  even  safety  are  at  risk. 

It  is  requested  that  section  329(b)  be  deleted. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Strathcona  County  and  the  Municipal  District  of  Bighorn 
No.  8. 


52    Delete  Taxpayer's  Name  From  Tax  Notice 


Section  334(1  )(a)  provides  that  the  tax  notice  must  show  the  same  information 
required  to  be  shown  on  the  tax  roll.  This  includes  the  name  and  mailing 
address  of  a  taxpayer. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  since  this  information  is  available  to  the  public, 
privacy  and  even  safety  are  at  risk. 

It  is  requested  that  section  334(1 )(a)  be  amended  to  remove  the 
requirement  to  show  the  taxpayer's  name  and  mailing  address  on  the  tax 
notice. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Strathcona  County. 


53     Clarify  Recipient  of  Complaint  in  Tax  Notices 


Section  334(1  )(e)  was  amended  in  1998  to  state  that  the  tax  notice  must  show 
the  name  and  address  of  the  designated  officer  with  whom  a  complaint  must  be 
filed. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  some  municipalities  have  made  only  the  Chief 
Administrative  Officer  (CAO)  the  designated  officer.  This  would  require  all 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


30 


complaints  to  be  filed  with  the  CAO.  The  concern  is  that  this  change  will 
represent  an  additional  administrative  step  for  appellants  and  the  municipality  will 
have  to  look  at  ways  of  maintaining  a  timely  straightforward  appeal  process. 

It  is  requested  that  section  334(1 )(e)  be  amended  to  specify  a  designated 
officer,  othier  than  the  CAO,  with  whom  a  complaint  can  be  filed. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert. 


54    Add  Deemed  Receipt  of  Electronic  Tax  Payments 


Section  341  provides  that  a  tax  payment  sent  by  mail  is  deemed  to  have  been 
received  on  the  date  of  the  postmark  on  the  envelope.  The  deemed  date  of 
receipt  of  the  payment  is  thus  determined  by  a  third  party  (Canada  Post). 

Some  stakeholders  have  indicated  that  they  are  making  the  majority  of  their 
property  tax  payments  by  electronic  transfer  or  similar  means  (such  as  wire 
transfer,  direct  deposit,  direct  credit,  electronic  data  interchange,  or  electronic 
funds  transfer). 

It  is  requested  that  section  341  be  amended  to  provide  that  when  a 
taxpayer  makes  a  tax  payment  by  electronic  transfer  of  funds  or  similar 
arrangement,  receipt  will  be  deemed  to  occur  on  the  date  and  time  shown 
on  the  financial  institution's  transfer  record. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Nova  Corporation. 


55    Clarify  Tax  Refund  on  Non-Residential  Property 


The  MGA  provides  for  the  assignment  of  assessment  classes  to  property  and 
allows  the  non-residential  class  to  be  divided  only  into  vacant  non-residential  and 
improved  non-residential. 

Section  354  allows  for  the  setting  of  tax  rates  for  each  assessment  class  or  sub- 
class established  in  section  297.  The  intent  of  the  legislation  is  to  allow 
municipalities  to  establish  a  tax  rate  which  is  consistent  for  all  properties  within 
the  same  assessment  class. 

There  is  a  concern  that  a  municipality  may  choose  to  refund  part  of  a  tax,  as 
provided  for  in  section  347(1  )(b),  as  a  means  of  reducing  the  tax  payable  for 
some  specific  properties  within  an  assessment  sub-class.  This  effectively  results 
in  a  reduced  tax  rate  for  certain  property  within  an  assessment  sub-class  which 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


31 


was  not  the  intent  of  the  legislation.  It  also  may  be  seen  as  creating  inequities 
within  a  municipality. 

It  is  requested  that  section  347  be  amended  to  state  that  a  council  may 
cancel  or  refund  all  or  part  of  a  tax  but  may  not  utilize  this  provision  as  a 
means  of  creating  a  reduced  tax  rate  within  a  specific  assessment  class. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Telus  Corporation  Inc.,  TransAlta,  and  Alberta  Power. 


56    Clarify  Surplus  Revenues 


Section  353  requires  a  municipality  to  pass  a  property  tax  bylaw  annually.  The 
provision  authorizes  council  to  impose  a  tax  in  respect  of  property  to  raise 
revenue  to  be  used  towards  the  payment  of : 

a)  the  expenditures  and  transfers  set  out  in  the  budget  of  the  municipality; 
and 

b)  the  requisitions. 

It  has  been  suggested  that  some  municipalities  are  collecting  significantly  more 
funds  than  those  required  for  the  operation  of  their  municipality.  The  MGA 
allows  a  municipality  to  collect  revenues  in  excess  of  the  required  annual  funds 
for  operating  the  municipality.  These  funds  can  be  held  in  an  account  or  can  be 
transferred  into  a  reserve  fund.  There  is  no  restriction  on  the  amount  of  revenue 
a  municipality  can  annually  collect  which  would  be  in  addition  to  the  annual 
operating  requirement. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  limit  the  amount  of  surplus 
revenues. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Telus  Corporation. 


57    Clarify  Tax  Rates  for  Non-Residential  and  Machiinery  and 
Equipment  Assessment  Classes  


There  is  a  concern  that  the  requirement  in  section  354(3)  that  machinery  and 
equipment  (M&E)  and  non-residential  tax  rates  must  be  the  same  to  raise  the 
revenue  for  payments  under  section  353(2) (a)  is  being  overlooked  because  of 
the  way  it  and  section  354(3)  are  written. 

It  is  requested  that  sections  354(3)  and  (3.1)  be  amended  to  state  clearly 
that  M&E  and  non-residential  tax  rates  to  raise  the  revenue  for  payments 
under  section  353(2)(a)  must  be  the  same. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Northern  Lights  No.  22. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


32 


58     Clarify  Minimum  Property  Tax  Amounts 


Section  357  allows  a  municipality  to  specify  a  minimum  amount  payable  as 
property  tax  in  its  property  tax  bylaw. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  wording  of  the  section  does  not  reflect  the 
original  intention.  This  was  to  have  a  minimum  amount  payable  by  all  property 
owners  to  cover  costs  that  are  incurred  by  the  municipality  in  respect  of  all 
properties,  regardless  of  value,  and  the  balance  of  taxes  would  be  set  by  some 
other  method  related  to  value. 

Some  municipalities  are  using  the  section  to  impose  a  minimum  tax  in  the  nature 
of  a  flat  tax,  regardless  of  property  value,  to  cover  all  the  municipalities'  revenue 
needs. 

It  is  requested  that  section  357  be  amended  to  provide  for  principles  for 
levying  a  minimum  tax. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Local  Government  Issues,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


59    Allow  Flexibility  for  Alberta  School  Foundation  Fund 
Requisitions 


Section  359.1  provides  how  the  Alberta  School  Foundation  Fund  requisition 
revenue  can  be  raised.  It  stipulates  that  the  tax  rate  required  to  raise  the 
revenue  needed  to  pay  the  requisition  must  be  the  same: 

•  within  the  assessment  class  to  which  the  requisition  applies  if  it  applies 
to  only  one  class; 

•  for  all  assessment  classes  that  are  to  be  combined  if  the  requisition 
applies  to  a  combination  of  assessment  classes;  and 

•  for  all  linear  property. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  legislation  does  not  provide  any  flexibility  for 
the  local  authority  in  respect  of  the  school  tax  levy.  The  requisition  stipulates  the 
amount  to  be  collected  and  which  classes  of  properties  to  levy.  There  is  a 
suggestion  that  the  municipality  should  be  able  to  alter  the  levy  between 
assessment  classes  to  pattern  a  levy  that  best  suits  the  local  circumstances. 

It  is  requested  that  section  359. 1  be  amended  to  provide  additional 
flexibility  for  the  local  authority  in  respect  of  the  school  tax  levy. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Grande  Prairie. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


33 


60    Extend  Qualification  for  Property  Tax  Exemption  Applications 


The  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation 
implemented  some  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Non-Profit  Organization  Tax 
Exemption  Review  Committee.  The  Review  Committee's  recommendations 
served  to  clarify  tax  exemption  provisions  and  to  ensure  consistency  in  the 
application  of  tax  exemptions  throughout  the  Province.  The  recommendations 
were  implemented  through  a  combination  of  the  regulation  and  1998 
amendments  to  the  MGA,  one  of  which  is  an  application  process  for  certain 
specific  properties. 

Several  municipalities  have  requested  changes  to  the  regulation  and/or  further 
amendments  to  the  MGA.  The  majority  of  the  concerns  or  issues  raised 
regarding  tax  exemptions  for  non-profit  organizations  will  be  addressed  in  the 
1 999  Regulation  intended  to  recognize  the  long-term  issues  for  non-profit 
organizations. 

However,  one  legislative  request  is  to  amend  the  MGA  so  that  any  exemption 
under  sections  361  to  363  would  require  an  application  prior  to  granting  an 
exemption. 

It  is  requested  that  the  requirements  of  section  362(1 )(n)  for  other 
properties  to  qualify  for  an  exemption  be  extended  to  all  other  tax 
exemption  provisions,  notably  sections  361  to  363. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


61     Consolidate  "Seniors'  Use  Property"  References  in  Section  362 


The  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation 
implemented  some  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Non-Profit  Organization  Tax 
Exemption  Review  Committee.  The  Review  Committee's  recommendations 
served  to  clarify  tax  exemption  provisions  and  to  ensure  consistency  in  the 
application  of  tax  exemptions  throughout  the  Province. 

It  has  been  suggested  that  the  exemptions  for  seniors'  property  are  confusing 
because  the  references  are  located  in  a  number  of  different  subsections  of 
section  362. 

It  is  requested  that  all  the  sections  providing  exemptions  for  "seniors'  use 
property"  be  consolidated  into  one  subsection  of  section  362,  and  any 
definitions  required  to  be  placed  in  section  284. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


34 


62    Change  Property  "Held"  by  a  Health  Region  to  "Owned 


Concern  has  been  raised  by  a  number  of  municipalities  that  property  that  is 
leased  by  a  health  unit  is  exempt  if  it  is  used  by  the  health  unit  under  the 
Regional  Health  Authorities  Act.  It  is  felt  that  the  only  properties  that  should 
receive  this  exemption  are  those  owned  by  the  health  unit. 

It  is  requested  that  section  362(g.1)  be  amended  by  changing  the  term 
"used"  to  "held". 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


63    Change  Tax  Status  of  Residential  Property  Held  by  a  Non-Prof  it 
Organization 


The  MGA  does  not  allow  for  any  assessment  exemptions  for  residential  property 
unless  it  is  a  designated  manufactured  home  held  in  storage  and  forming  part  of 
the  inventory  of  a  manufacturer  or  dealer.  The  legislation  also  does  not  allow  for 
any  tax  exemptions  on  residential  property  except  for  the  tax  exemptions 
provided  for  farm  land  residences  under  the  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation 
or  residential  property  owned  by  a  municipality. 

All  residences  are  assessable  and  taxable  except  for  specific  cases  where  a  tax 
exemption  is  granted. 

It  is  requested  that  section  362(1 )(n)(i)  be  amended  to  exclude  residences 
from  the  tax  exemption  provided  in  that  section. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Foothills  No.  31 . 


64     Tax  Seniors'  Housing  Facilities 


The  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation 
implemented  some  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Non-Profit  Organization  Tax 
Exemption  Review  Committee.  The  Review  Committee's  recommendations 
served  to  clarify  tax  exemption  provisions  and  to  ensure  consistency  in  the 
application  of  tax  exemptions  throughout  the  Province. 

In  addition,  amendments  to  the  MGA  in  1998  allowed  a  council  to  pass  a  bylaw 
to  make  any  property  that  is  exempt  from  taxation  under  362(1  )(n)  subject  to 
taxation  to  any  extent  that  it  considered  appropriate  other  than  properties  that 
are  exempt  under  the  provisions  of  362(1  )(n)(i),  (ii),  and  (iv).  Seniors'  housing 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


35 


would  be  exempt  if  it  qualified  under  362(1  )(n)(iv),  and  therefore  would  remain 
exempt  regardless. 

A  concern  was  raised  that  municipalities  would  be  required  to  exempt  a  seniors' 
housing  facility  that  is  owned  or  held  by  an  unsubsidized  non-profit  organization 
that  met  the  exemption  criteria  in  the  Regulation,  thus  redistributing  to  and 
increasing  the  tax  burden  on  other  residential  properties.  This  is  particularly 
critical  in  municipalities  where  there  is  a  number  of  seniors'  housing  facilities. 

It  is  requested  that  section  362(2)  be  amended  to  allow  a  municipality  to 
pass  a  by-law  to  make  any  property  that  is  exempt  from  taxation  under 
subsection  362(1 )(n)(iv)  to  be  subject  to  taxation  to  any  extent  the  council 
considers  appropriate. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Mr.  Norm  Mayer,  Mayor  of  the  City  of  Camrose. 


65    Clarify  Taxing  Non-Profit  Organizations  in  Privately-Owned 
Facilities 


The  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation 
implemented  some  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Non-Profit  Organization  Tax 
Exemption  Review  Committee.  The  Review  Committee's  recommendations 
served  to  clarify  tax  exemption  provisions  and  to  ensure  consistency  in  the 
application  of  tax  exemptions  throughout  the  Province.  The  recommendations 
were  implemented  through  a  combination  of  the  regulation  and  1998 
amendments  to  the  MGA. 

Several  concerns  have  been  raised  about  non-profit  organizations  using 
privately-owned  facilities.  These  concerns  include: 

•  There  is  no  assurance  that  the  exemption  is  passed  on  to  the  non-profit 
groups  that  rent  the  facility. 

•  It  is  difficult  to  maintain  a  record  of  when  non-profit  groups  occupy  or 
vacate  the  facility  or  change  the  amount  of  space  occupied. 

•  Special  arrangements  can  be  made  between  the  landlord  and  the  non- 
profit organization  where  the  landlord  may  be  covering  the  operating 
expenses,  which  includes  the  property  tax  component,  and  obtains  a 
charitable  donation  receipt  from  the  non-profit  group. 

It  is  requested  that  section  362  be  amended  to  only  allow  a  tax  exemption 
for  non-profit  organizations,  under  sections  362(1 )(n)(ii)  and  362(1 )(n)(iii), 
that  are  not  in  privately-owned  facilities.  A  provision  could  be  made  for 
non-profit  groups  operating  in  privately-owned  facilities  to  apply  to  the 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


36 


municipality  for  a  tax  rebate  if  ttiey  meet  tfie  qualification  for  exemption 
and  upon  proof  of  tax  payment  to  the  owner. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert. 


66    Change  Exemptions  for  Non-Profit  Organizations 


Several  municipalities  have  requested  changes  to  the  Comnnunity  Organization 
1998  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation  and/or  further  amendments  to  the 
MGA  regarding  non-profit  organizations.  One  legislative  request  is  to  remove  the 
ownership  criteria  required  to  qualify  for  a  tax  exemption  for  property  used  for  a 
charitable  or  benevolent  purpose  that  is  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

It  is  requested  that  section  362(1 )(n)(iii)  be  amended  to  change  the 
provision  that  the  property  must  be  "owned  by"  to  "held  by"  the  Crown,  a 
municipality,  any  other  body  that  is  exempt  from  taxation  under  the 
Property  Tax  Division  or  a  non-profit  organization  to  qualify  for  a  tax 
exemption. 

The  majority  of  the  concerns  or  long-term  issues  raised  regarding  tax 
exemptions  for  non-profit  organizations  will  be  addressed  in  the  1999  Regulation. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert  and  the  City  of  Calgary. 


67    Clarify  Notice  Provisions 


Section  362(3)  provides  that  where  a  council  of  a  municipality  has  passed  a 
bylaw  under  subsection  (2)  which  can  make  specific  exempt  properties  taxable,  it 
must  notify  any  person  or  group  that  will  be  affected  of  the  proposed  bylaw. 

The  section  does  not  stipulate  how  the  notification  must  be  given.  It  is 
suggested  that  the  notice  should  be  in  writing  to  be  consistent  with  other  notice 
provisions  in  the  MGA. 

It  is  requested  that  section  362(3)  be  amended  to  state  that  notification  by 
the  municipality  to  any  person  or  group  that  will  be  affected  must  be  given 
in  writing. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


37 


68    Add  Property  Used  and  Held  by  a  Specific  Frencli  Non-Profit 
Organization  as  a  Specific  Exemption 


The  MGA  and  the  attendant  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax 
Exemption  Regulation  have  provisions  which  grant  an  exemption  to  an 
organization  if  the  ethno-cultural  organization  meets  certain  criteria. 

Some  concern  has  been  raised  by  a  French  non-profit  organization  in  the  City  of 
Calgary  which  feels  that  it  would  like  to  be  exempt  but  does  not  wish  to  apply 
under  the  ethno-cultural  provisions  in  the  Community  Organization  1998 
Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  allow  for  a  specific  exemption 
for  this  organization. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary  and  La  Societe  du  Centre  Scolaire 
Communautaire  de  Calgary. 


69    Repeal  Exemptions  Granted  by  Bylaw  for  Non-Profit 
Organizations 


The  MGA  and  the  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption 
Regulation  provide  a  number  of  specific  and  general  categories  which  allow  a 
municipality  to  exempt  non-profit  organizations  from  municipal  and  school 
requisitions. 

Some  concern  has  been  raised  regarding  this  provision.  It  appears  that  the 
same  criteria  are  used  in  section  364  and  the  Community  Organization  1998 
Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation,  thus  making  this  section  redundant.  It  is  felt 
that  any  other  properties  that  are  considered  would  have  to  meet  the  tests  of  the 
Regulation,  and  therefore  would  be  granted  an  exemption  under  those 
provisions,  or  be  rejected  entirely.  It  has  been  suggested  that  the  department 
should  relax  the  requirement  for  the  properties  to  contribute  to  the  Alberta 
School  Foundation  Fund. 

It  is  requested  that  section  364  be  repealed  as  it  appears  to  be  redundant 
since  the  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption 
Regulation  took  effect. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


38 


70    Clarify  Tax  Status  of  Licenced  Property 


Section  365  provides  for  the  tax  status  of  property  licenced  under  the  Gaming 
and  Liquor  Act. 

Section  365(1)  states  that  all  property  licenced  under  that  Act  is  not  exempt  from 
taxation  despite  the  tax  exemption  provisions  provided  for  in  sections  351(1)(b) 
and  361  to  364. 

Section  365(2)  further  states  that,  despite  365(1),  property  listed  in  section 
362(n)  in  respect  of  which  a  liquor  licence  that  is  specified  in  the  regulations  has 
been  issued  is  exempt  from  taxation. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  all  licenced  premises  or  the  licenced  portion  of 
premises  should  be  subject  to  taxation. 

It  is  requested  that  section  365  be  amended  to  provide  ttiat  all  licenced 
premises  or  the  licenced  portion  of  the  premises  are  subject  to  taxation. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  St.  Albert  and  the  City  of  Calgary. 


71     Expand  Grants-ln-Place-of-Taxes 


The  Community  Organization  1998  Property  Tax  Exemption  Regulation 
implemented  some  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Non-Profit  Organization  Tax 
Exemption  Review  Committee.  The  Review  Committee's  recommendations 
served  to  clarify  tax  exemption  provisions  and  to  ensure  consistency  in  the 
application  of  tax  exemptions  throughout  the  Province.  Included  in  the  review 
were  those  properties  used  for  arts  and  museums.  The  consensus  was  that  the 
Jubilee  Auditoriums  and  provincial  museums  would  be  exempt. 

A  number  of  concerns  have  since  been  raised. 

First,  the  Crown's  intention  was  that  the  Jubilee  Auditoriums  in  Edmonton  and 
Calgary  would  not  be  subject  to  grant-in-place-of-taxes.  This  would  have 
occurred  had  the  facilities  been  turned  over  to  separate  non-profit  organizations 
to  operate.  This  type  of  agreement  did  not  occur;  rather,  a  service  contract  was 
entered  into  for  some  specific  functions  such  as  ticket  sales,  coat  checking  and 
liquor  sales. 

Secondly,  it  is  felt  that  "historical  sites"  is  a  very  broad  term  that  has  the  potential 
to  include  any  property  considered  as  having  historical  significance. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


39 


Thirdly,  in  some  cases  liistoric  sites  are  used  for  other  purposes,  such  as 
government  offices.  In  those  cases  the  Crown  may  wish  to  pay  a  grant-in-place- 
of-taxes. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  in  the  foliowing  three  areas: 

1.  to  reflect  an  exemption  for  the  Jubilee  Auditoriums  similar  to  the 
exemption  for  museums; 

2.  in  section  366(3)(b),  "museums  and  historical  sites"  should  be  amended 
to  read  "museums  and  designated  historic  sites";  and 

3.  in  section  366(5),  include  a  reference  to  366(3)(b)  to  (g)  that  would 
simply  give  the  grants  administration  the  ability  to  exercise  its 
discretion  regarding  grant  payments. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Assessment  Services  Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs. 


72    Pro-rate  Property  Assessment  and  Taxation  of  Airport  Leases 


The  property  held  by  a  Regional  Airport  Authority  is  taxable  to  the  Airport 
Authority  except  for  specific  items  exempt  from  assessment  under  section 
298(1  )(x).  Any  property  or  part  of  a  property  held  under  a  lease  from  the  Airport 
Authority  is  assessed  to  the  holder  of  the  lease  [section  304(1  )(e)]. 

Section  368  provides  for  changes  in  taxable  status  for  property.  It  also  allows  for 
the  pro-ration  of  taxes  payable  when  the  taxable  status  changes. 

When  a  lessee  changes  during  the  year,  the  property  reverts  back  to  the  Airport 
Authority  before  the  next  lessee  takes  over.  The  Airport  Authority  becomes  the 
assessed  person  as  of  the  date  of  termination  of  the  lease.  This  is  not 
considered  to  be  a  change  in  tax  status  and  therefore  no  pro-rating  of  the  leased 
area  assessment  can  occur.  The  Airport  Authority  would  be  responsible  for 
assigning  the  portion  of  the  tax  amount  to  each  lessee  throughout  the  year  in  the 
individual  lease  agreements. 

It  is  requested  that  section  368  be  amended  to  allow  the  municipality  the 
authority  to  pro-rate  taxes  to  a  property  based  on  different  lessees  in  the 
same  area  during  one  year. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


40 


73    Add  Another  Method  for  Determining  Business  Assessment  Value 


Section  374(1  )(b)  provides  four  methods  that  can  be  used  to  prepare  an 
assessment  for  businesses  operating  within  the  municipality  which  are  then  to  be 
recorded  on  the  business  assessment  roll. 

A  suggestion  has  been  made  to  add  net  annual  rental  value  standard  as  another 
method  of  determining  business  assessment  values.  The  net  annual  rental 
value  standard  would  allow  business  assessments  to  be  determined  by,  and  be 
more  reflective  of,  the  data  and  analysis  that  will  be  used  to  prepare  market 
value  property  assessments  for  the  types  of  properties  in  which  businesses  are 
generally  located. 

It  is  requested  ttiat  section  374(1 )(b)  be  amended  to  add  the  following 
subsection: 

"(v)  assessment  based  on  the  net  annual  rental  value  of  the  premises. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


74    Expand  Collection  of  Business  Revitalization  Zone  Tax 


Section  381  authorizes  the  Minister  to  make  regulations  regarding  a  business 
revitalization  zone  tax.  In  addition,  section  374  specifies  methods  of  preparing 
assessments  for  business  tax.  The  business  tax  and  the  business  revitalization 
zone  tax  are  levied  on  the  business  owner,  not  the  property  owner. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  increase  the  options  available 
to  collect  a  business  revitalization  zone  tax  in  instances  where  the 
municipality  has  rescinded  its  business  tax.  Specifically,  it  was  requested 
that  the  amendment  allow  for  special  tax  provisions  in  Division  5  of  Part  10 
to  be  used  to  collect  these  funds. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Red  Deer. 


75    Restrict  Definition  of  Business  for  Exemption  From  Business 
Tax 


Section  374(2)  states  that  a  business  tax  bylaw  may  specify  classes  of  business 
that  are  exempt  from  taxation  under  the  Business  Tax  Division. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


41 


The  Municipal  Government  Amendment  Act,  1998,  added  a  provision  (section 
374.1)  which  states  that  a  municipality  is  not  required  to  prepare  an  assessment 
for  any  business  in  a  class  of  business  that  is  exempt  from  taxation  under  the 
business  tax  bylaw.  It  also  added  a  subsection,  375(d),  which  states  that  a 
business  operated  by  a  non-profit  organization  on  property  that  is  exempt  from 
taxation  under  section  362(1  )(n)  is  also  exempt  from  business  tax. 

Both  of  the  above  amendments  were  recommendations  from  the  Non-Profit 
Organization  Tax  Exemption  Review  Committee.  The  Review  Committee 
wanted  to  ensure  that  any  property  held  by  a  non-profit  organization  that 
qualified  for  a  property  tax  exemption  would  also  be  granted  an  exemption  from 
business  assessment  and  business  tax. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  restrict  the  definition  of 
business  to  the  point  where  commercial  or  profit-motivated  operations,  as 
well  as  their  competitors  who  are  established  as  non-profit  organizations, 
are  subject  to  business  assessment  and  taxation  without  the  need  to 
assess  and/or  tax  all  non-profit  organizations. 

The  above  two  amendments  made  in  1 998  appear  to  achieve  the  result  of 
amending  the  definition  of  business. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


76    Clarify  Tax  Status  of  Linear  Property  in  Business  Premises 


Section  376(1)  states  that  when  a  property  tax  has  been  imposed  for  machinery 
and  equipment  or  for  linear  property  on  premises  occupied  for  the  purposes  of  a 
business,  the  premises  on  which  that  property  is  located  are  exempt  from 
taxation. 

Concerns  have  been  raised  that  this  section  is  not  clear  whether  the  tax 
exemption  applies  to  the  part  of  the  premises  where  the  assessed  linear  property 
is  located  or  whether  the  tax  exemption  applies  to  the  entire  premises. 

It  is  requested  that  section  376(1)  be  amended  to  state  that  linear  property 
must  actually  be  located,  assessed  and  taxed  on  part  of  the  premises  for 
that  part  of  the  premises  to  qualify  for  an  exemption.  The  entire  premises 
would  not  qualify  for  an  exemption. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton  and  the  Assessment  Services 
Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


42 


77    Change  ''Parcel  of  Land"  to  "Property"  in  Special  Tax  Provision 


Section  387  states  that  the  person  liable  to  pay  the  special  tax  is  the  owner  of 
the  "parcel  of  land." 

It  is  suggested  that  the  "parcel  of  land"  reference  should  instead  read  "owner  of 
the  property."  Municipal  Services  Branch  observed  this  reference  as  an 
irregularity  in  the  property  and  taxation  provisions. 

It  is  requested  that  section  387  be  amended  to  change  "parcel  of  land"  to 
"property. " 

If  section  387  is  amended,  then  the  reference  in  553(f)  should  also  be  amended 
This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


78     Vary  Local  Improvement  Tax  Rate 


Section  403  provides  for  the  amendment  of  a  local  improvement  bylaw  in 
circumstances  where  council  receives  additional  financial  assistance,  refinances 
a  debt  at  a  lower  interest  rate,  or  where  an  alteration  is  necessary  as  a  result  of 
an  assessment  appeal  under  Part  1 1  (assessment  review  board)  or  Part  12 
(Municipal  Government  Board). 

There  is  no  provision  for  the  amendment  of  a  local  improvement  bylaw  where 
costs  have  increased.  Municipalities  have  an  obligation  to  carefully  determine 
the  cost  of  any  improvements  constructed  pursuant  to  a  local  improvement 
bylaw.  However,  there  are  circumstances  where,  through  no  fault  of  the 
municipality,  even  the  most  careful  calculation  of  costs  or  expenditure  of  funds 
may  be  insufficient. 

To  require  the  ratepayers  at  large  to  pay  for  these  overages  through  taxes  when 
they  do  not  receive  any  benefit  from  the  improvement  is  not  consistent  with  the 
intent  of  the  local  improvement  process. 

It  is  requested  that  section  403  be  amended  to  add  a  provision  allowing  for 
the  revision  of  a  local  improvement  bylaw  where  costs  have  increased, 
subject  to  conditions  or  controls  which  would  be  necessary  to  ensure  that 
cost  estimates  are  not  intentionally  underestimated. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Fort  Saskatchewan. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


43 


79    Eliminate  Equalized  Assessments 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  the  concept  of  equalized  assessments  for 
municipalities  should  be  eliminated,  particularly  where  municipalities  are  at 
market  value  for  assessment  purposes,  subject  to  a  quality  test  in  terms  of 
percentage  of  market  value. 

It  is  requested  that  ttie  concept  of  equalized  assessment  be  eliminated. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Grande  Prairie. 


80    Refund  Overpayment  of  Property  Tax 


Assessment  complaints  can  take  a  number  of  years  to  be  resolved.  When  a 
decision  is  finally  made,  the  municipality  can  be  in  possession  of  funds  which  are 
claimed  by  two  or  more  parties.  There  are  no  provisions  in  the  MGA  which 
provide  direction  on  how  a  municipality  should  address  this. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  be  added  in  Part  11  to  direct  that  when  a 
property  is  sold  with  an  unresolved  assessment  complaint  or  appeal,  the 
purchaser  acquires  the  right  to  any  refund  of  overpayment  of  taxes 
resulting  from  the  resolution  of  the  assessment  complaint  or  appeal, 
unless  other  arrangements  are  entered  into  by  the  purchaser  and  vendor 
and  notice  has  been  served  on  the  municipality  of  these  arrangements 
prior  to  the  mailing  or  delivering  of  the  refund  by  the  municipality. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


44 


X 


Requested  Amendments  for  1999  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act 
Comments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


Respondent: 

Position: 

Representing: 


34    Modify  Pipeline  Assessment  Process 


35    Amend  "Parcels  of  Land"  and/or  "Improvements"  to  "Property" 


36    Adopt  Annual  General  Assessments" 


37    Clarify  Appointment  of  Municipal  Assessor 


38    Provide  Information  Necessary  to  Defend  an  Assessment 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


45 


39    Obtain  Information  Necessary  to  Prepare  Assessnnents 


40    Clarify  Date  for  Providing  Assessment  Information 


41    Deny  Income-Based  Assessment  Appeals 


42    Assign  Assessment  Classes  to  Property 


43    Clarify  Tax  Treatment  of  Crown  Land 


44    Reduce  Qualifiers  for  Travel  Trailer  Exemption 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


46 


45    Delete  an  Assessed  Person's  Name  From  Municipal  Assessment  Rolls 


46    Clarify  Assessed  Persons  of  Crown-Owned  Property 


47    Assess  Sites  Under  Machinery  and  Equipment 


48    Expand  Property  Assessment  of  Industrial  Lease  Sites 


49    Delete  an  Assessed  Person's  Name  From  Assessment  Notices 


50    Clarify  Definition  of  Requisition 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


47 


51    Delete  Taxpayer's  Name  From  Municipal  Tax  Rolls 


52    Delete  Taxpayer's  Name  From  Tax  Notice 


53    Clarify  Recipient  of  Complaint  Tax  Notices 


54    Add  Deemed  Receipt  of  Electronic  Tax  Payments 


55    Clarify  Tax  Refund  on  Non-Residential  Property 


56    Clarify  Surplus  Revenues 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


48 


57    Clarify  Tax  Rates  for  Non-Residential  and  Machinery  and  Equipment 
Assessment  Classes 


58    Clarify  Minimum  Property  Tax  Amounts 


59    Allow  Flexibility  for  Alberta  School  Foundation  Fund  Requisitions 


60    Extend  Qualification  for  Property  Tax  Exemption  Applications 


61    Consolidate  "Seniors'  Use  Property"  References  in  Section  362 


62    Change  Property  "Held"  by  a  Health  Region  to  "Owned" 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


49 


63    Change  Tax  Status  of  Residential  Property  Held  by  a  Non-Profit 
Organization 


64    Tax  Seniors'  Housing  Facilities 


65    Clarify  Taxing  Non-Profit  Organizations  in  Privately-Owned  Facilities 


66    Change  Exemptions  for  Non-Profit  Organizations 


67    Clarify  Notice  Provisions 


68    Add  Property  Used  and  Held  by  a  Specific  French  Non-Profit  Organization 
as  a  Specific  Exemption 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


50 


69    Repeal  Exemptions  Granted  by  Bylaw  for  Non-Profit  Organizations 


70    Clarify  Tax  Status  of  Licenced  Property 


71    Expand  Grants-in-Place-of-Taxes 


72    Pro-rate  Property  Assessnnent  and  Taxation  of  Airport  Leases 


73    Add  Another  Method  for  Determining  Business  Assessment  Value 


74    Expand  Collection  of  Business  Revitalization  Zone  Tax 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


51 


75    Restrict  Definition  of  Business  for  Exemption  Fronn  Business  tax 


76    Clarify  Tax  Status  of  Linear  Property  in  Business  Premises 


77    Change  "Parcel  of  Land"  to  "Property"  in  Special  Tax  Provision 


78    Vary  Local  Improvement  Tax  Rate 


79    Eliminate  Equalized  Assessments 


80    Refund  Overpayment  of  Property  Tax 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  and  Taxation 


52 


AMENDMENTS 

relating  to 


81    Allow  Members  to  Sit  on  More  Than  One  Assessment  Review 
Board 


On  receiving  a  complaint  about  a  property  assessment,  a  municipality  must,  by 
bylaw,  establish  one  or  more  assessment  review  boards.  Council  must  appoint  a 
minimum  of  three  members  to  each  assessment  review  board. 

However,  the  MGA  does  not  state  that  an  assessment  review  board  member  can 
sit  on  other  assessment  review  boards. 

It  is  requested  that  section  454  be  amended  to  allow  council  to  designate 
one  member  of  each  assessment  review  board  as  an  ex-officio  member  of 
any  other  assessment  review  board. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  City  of  Calgary. 


82    Limit  Right  of  Assessment  Complaint  to  Assessed  Persons 


Section  460  sets  out  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  a  person  who  wishes  to 
complain  to  an  assessment  review  board  about  "any  assessment  or  tax".  Under 
section  460(3),  complaints  may  be  made  only  by  an  assessed  person  or 
taxpayer. 

Section  470  provides  for  the  appeal  of  a  decision  by  an  assessment  review 
board  to  the  Municipal  Government  Board.  Under  section  470(2),  the  appellant 
may  be  an  assessed  person,  a  taxpayer,  an  assessor  or  an  affected  municipality. 

There  is  a  stakeholder  concern  that  the  term  "taxpayer"  could  include  federal  or 
provincial  income  taxpayers  or  Goods  and  Service  Tax  payers.  Furthermore,  it  is 
claimed  that  a  separate  reference  to  a  taxpayer  is  unnecessary  because  an 
assessed  person  is  automatically  a  taxed  person. 

It  is  requested  that  sections  460  and  470  be  amended  to  limit  the  right  of 
complaint  about  an  assessment  or  tax  to  assessed  persons  only. 

The  MGA's  definitions  of  the  terms  "tax"  and  "taxpayer"  (in  sections  1(aa)  and 
1  (bb),  respectively)  indicate  that,  for  the  purposes  of  the  Act,  a  taxpayer  is  a 
person  who  pays  a  property  tax,  business  tax,  business  revitalization  3-acre  tax, 
a  special  tax,  well  drilling  equipment  tax  or  local  improvement  tax. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


53 


83    Deny  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals  if  Required  Fees  Not 
Paid 


The  MGA  states  that  a  person  wishing  to  make  a  complaint  about  any 
assessment  or  tax  notice  must  do  so  in  accordance  with  section  460.  In 
addition,  section  481  stipulates  that  council  may  set  fees  payable  by  persons 
wishing  to  make  a  complaint  to  the  assessment  review  board. 

There  is  a  concern  that  section  460  does  not  make  the  filing  of  a  fee  a 
prerequisite  to  a  complaint  being  heard. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  state  that  an  assessment 
complaint  and  subsequent  appeal  may  be  made  only  if  the  required  fee,  set 
by  council,  has  been  paid. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  Government  Board. 


84    Allow  Assessment  Review  Boards  to  Dismiss  Assessment 
Complaints  for  Lack  of  E vidence 


Section  467(1)  sets  out  the  decisions  that  may  be  made  by  an  assessment 
review  board  (ARB)  after  holding  a  hearing  on  a  complaint.  A  board  can  dismiss 
the  complaint,  change  certain  details  on  the  assessment  or  tax  notice,  or  leave 
the  assessment  or  tax  roll  unchanged. 

Under  section  467(1  )(a),  a  complaint  may  be  dismissed  if  it  was  not  made  within 
the  proper  time.  As  a  result  of  a  1998  amendment,  a  complaint  may  also  be 
dismissed  if  it  does  not  explain  why  the  complainant  thinks  the  information  on  an 
assessment  or  tax  notice  is  incorrect. 

It  is  requested  that  section  467  be  amended  to  allow  assessment  review 
boards  to  dismiss  complaints  for  lack  of  evidence. 

Section  467(1  )(a)  indicates  that  there  is  an  onus  on  a  complainant  to  explain  fully 
to  the  assessment  review  board  why  the  information  on  the  assessment  or  tax 
notice  is  incorrect  and  can  therefore  be  a  basis  for  complaint.  Failure  to  provide 
a  reason  for  a  complaint  would  appear  to  constitute  a  lack  of  evidence. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


54 


85    Extend  Time  Limit  for  Assessment  Review  Board  Decisions 


Section  468  states  that  an  assessment  review  board  must  make  a  decision  on 
complaints  related  to  property  tax  or  other  tax  where  a  complaint  may  be  filed  to 
an  assessment  review  board  within  150  days  after  the  respective  assessment  or 
tax  notices  have  been  sent  out. 

A  concern  has  been  expressed  that  the  time  frame  may  be  insufficient  when 
dealing  with  a  large  volume  of  complaints. 

It  is  requested  that  section  468  be  amended  to  double  the  time  for  making 
decisions  from  150  to  300  days. 

Under  section  605,  the  Minister  may  by  order  alter  dates  and  time  periods  and 
specify  another  number  of  days  or  another  day  for  carrying  out  the  task. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


86    Establisti  l\/laximum  Fees  for  Assessment  Complaints 


Section  481(1)  states  that  a  council  may  set  fees  payable  by  persons  wishing  to 
make  complaints  or  to  be  involved  as  a  party  or  as  an  intervener  in  a  hearing 
before  an  assessment  review  board.  This  fee  is  refundable  if  the  decision  of  the 
assessment  review  board  is  in  favour  of  the  complainant. 

Some  taxpayers  have  protested  that  the  fees  set  by  council  are  exorbitant.  If  the 
assessment  review  board  confirms  their  assessment  (they  therefore  cannot  get  a 
refund),  they  are  forced  to  appeal  to  the  Municipal  Government  Board.  The  fee 
paid  to  the  municipality  is  not  refundable  if  the  decision  of  the  Municipal 
Government  Board  is  in  favour  of  the  complainant. 

It  Is  requested  that  section  481  be  amended  to  include  a  maximum  fee 
which  can  be  levied  by  a  municipality  for  an  assessment  complaint.  This 
maximum  fee  would  be  established  for  each  assessment  class  provided  for 
in  section  297. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Assessment  Services  Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


55 


87    Modify  Assessment  Review  Board  Structure 


On  receiving  a  complaint  about  a  property  assessment,  a  council  must  establish 
by  bylaw  one  or  more  assessment  review  boards.  By  contrast,  when  an 
assessment  appeal  is  submitted  to  the  Municipal  Government  Board,  the 
administrator  must  select  at  least  one  member  of  the  Board  to  sit  as  a  panel  of 
the  Board. 

It  is  requested  that  the  equivalent  of  the  provision  in  section  487  regarding 
the  Municipal  Government  Board  (selecting  members  of  a  large  board  to  sit 
as  a  panel  of  the  board)  be  enacted  for  assessment  review  boards. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton  and  the  City  of  St.  Albert. 


88    Clarify  Jurisdiction  of  Panels  of  One  for  Assessment  Review 
Boards 


A  concern  was  raised  in  the  preparations  for  the  1998  amendments  about  the 
description  in  the  March  1 998  consultation  document  of  the  subject  matter  of 
panels  of  one.  The  jurisdiction  was  described  as  covering  matters  of  a  minor  or 
routine  nature.  The  stakeholder  felt  this  would  lead  to  challenges. 

It  is  requested  that  the  jurisdiction  of  panels  of  one  for  assessment  review 
boards  be  clarified. 

The  wording  In  section  48  of  Bill  34  which  amended  section  487  did  not  state 
that  panels  of  one  would  deal  with  matters  of  a  minor  or  routine  nature.  New 
section  484.1  allows  the  Minister  to  make  regulations  respecting,  among  other 
matters,  the  jurisdiction  of  assessment  review  boards.  A  regulation  covering 
these  matters  is  being  prepared. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


56 


X 


Requested  Amendments  for  1999  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act 
Comments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


Respondent: 

Position: 

Representing: 


81    Allow  Members  to  Sit  on  More  Than  One  Assessment  Review  Board 


82    Limit  Right  of  Assessment  Complaint  to  Assessed  Persons 


83    Deny  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals  if  Required  Fees  Not  Paid 


84    Allow  Assessment  Review  Boards  to  Dismiss  Assessment  Complaints  for 
Lack  of  Evidence 


85    Extend  Time  Limit  for  Assessment  Review  Board  Decisions 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


57 


86    Establish  Maximum  Fees  for  Assessment  Complaints 


87    Modify  Assessment  Review  Board  Structure 


88    Clarify  Jurisdiction  of  Panels  of  One  for  Assessment  Review  Boards 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Assessment  Complaints  and  Appeals 


58 


mwmm:mmmm 


89    Recover  Costs  Related  to  Contaminated  Parcels 


Section  410(c.1)  defines  remedial  costs  as  expenses  incurred  to  perform  work 
under  an  environmental  protection  order  or  an  enforcement  order  issued  under 
the  Environmental  Protection  and  Enhancement  Act. 

A  concern  has  been  raised  that  this  definition  restricts  the  definition  of  remedial 
costs  to  only  those  costs  incurred  by  the  Province.  This  definition  will  not  allow  a 
municipality  to  recover  the  costs  incurred  even  in  the  event  of  a  tax  sale.  There 
is  no  ability  to  add  these  costs  to  the  tax  roll. 

It  is  requested  that  section  410(c.1)  be  amended  to  extend  the  definition  of 
remedial  costs  to  costs  incurred  by  municipalities  under  an  environmental 
protection  or  enforcement  order. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary  and  the  City  of  St.  Albert. 


90    Deny  Removal  of  Tax  Recovery  Notification 


Under  section  4.2  of  the  former  Tax  Recovery  Act,  when  a  tax  recovery 
notification  was  placed  on  a  title  to  a  parcel,  the  Registrar  could  not  cancel  the 
certificate  of  title  to  the  parcel  without  the  consent  of  the  municipality  at  whose 
instance  the  notification  was  placed.  It  is  suggested  that  the  present  MGA  does 
not  include  this  provision  and  therefore  parcels  with  tax  recovery  notifications 
filed  against  can  change  ownership  without  the  municipality  receiving  payment  of 
arrears  of  taxes  related  to  the  lands. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  be  added  to  the  MGA  that  would  state 
that  the  Registrar  could  not  remove  a  tax  recovery  notification  without  the 
consent  of  the  municipality  that  requested  the  notification. 

Section  413(4)  already  makes  that  provision. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  County  of  Barrhead. 


91    Enforce  Collection  of  Rent  for  Tax  Arrears 


Section  416  provides  a  mechanism  for  a  municipality  to  collect  rent  payments 
from  a  person  who  holds  a  parcel  under  a  lease  from  the  owner  when  the  owner 
is  in  tax  arrears  on  that  parcel. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


59 


It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  include  a  provision  for 
enforcement  of  section  416. 

It  should  be  noted  that  where  the  MGA  grants  a  municipality  the  authority  to 
collect  funds  but  does  not  provide  a  penalty  for  non-compliance,  a  municipality 
has  the  authority  to  bring  civil  action  against  the  person  as  provided  for  In  section 
411. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Grande  Prairie. 


92    Add  Rural  Electrification  Liens  on  Title  of  Tax  Recovery  Lands 


Section  423(1)  provides  that  a  person  who  purchases  tax  recovery  land  at  a 
public  auction  acquires  the  land  free  of  all  encumbrances  except  for  the 
following: 

•  encumbrances  arising  from  claims  of  the  Crown  in  right  of  Canada, 

•  irrigation  or  drainage  debentures, 

•  registered  easements  and  instruments  registered  pursuant  to  section 
72  of  the  Land  Titles  Act, 

•  right-of-entry  orders  as  defined  in  the  Surface  Rights  Act  registered 
under  the  Land  Titles  Act, 

•  liens  under  section  36  of  the  Rural  Utilities  Act,  and 

•  liens  under  section  15  of  the  Rural  Electrification  Loan  Act. 

The  specified  exceptions  do  not  include  liens  filed  under  the  Rural  Electrification 
Long  Term  Financing  Act. 

The  provisions  of  the  Rural  Electrification  Long  Term  Financing  Act  take 
precedence  over  the  MGA  provisions.  As  a  result,  these  liens  are  not  removed 
from  tax  recovery  land  when  it  is  sold  or  transferred  to  a  municipality  after  15 
years. 

It  is  requested  that  sections  423(1),  424(3)  and  428(4)  be  amended  to  refer 
to  the  liens  under  the  Rural  Electrification  Long  Term  Financing  Act. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Alberta  Transportation  and  Utilities. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


60 


93     Clarify  Acquisition  of  Condominiums  in  Tax  Recovery 
Proceedings 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  purchasers  of  condominiums  in  tax  recovery 
auctions  pursuant  to  section  423,  or  municipalities  acquiring  condominiums  in  tax 
recovery  proceedings  pursuant  to  section  424,  take  title  to  these  subject  to  the 
charges  for  unpaid  condominium  fees  to  the  date  of  acquisition. 

The  condominium  corporations  have  successfully  argued  in  court  that  the 
condominium  fees  are  not  "encumbrances"  and  are  therefore  not  excluded  by 
the  exception  clauses  in  the  particular  sections. 

It  is  requested  that  sections  423  and  424  be  amended  by  adding  a  clause 
stating  that  the  purchaser  or  municipality,  respectively,  of  a  condominium 
acquires  the  land  free  of  the  charges  for  condominium  fees  before  the 
purchaser  or  municipality  takes  title. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


94    Add  Provincial  Contributions  to  Costs  of  Contaminated  Sites 


A  concern  has  been  raised  that  there  are  no  provisions  addressing  municipalities 
acquiring  contaminated  sites  which  have  a  negative  value  because  of  the 
contamination,  and  the  costs  related  to  this. 

It  is  requested  that  an  amendment  be  made  to  make  the  Province,  through 
the  Alberta  School  Foundation  Fund,  responsible  for  a  share  of  the  costs  in 
the  proportion  of  school  tax/municipal  tax  levied. 

If  there  is  no  value,  then  the  assessment  should  reflect  that  and  consequently 
the  municipal  and  school  tax  impact  should  be  minimal. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Grande  Prairie. 


95    Clarify  Bidding  for  and  Buying  of  Tax  Recovery  Land 


Section  429(1)  states  that  when  a  municipality  holds  a  public  auction  on  tax 
recovery  property  the  auctioneer,  the  councillors,  the  chief  administrative  officer 
and  the  designated  officers  and  employees  of  the  municipality  must  not  bid  for  or 
buy,  or  act  as  an  agent  in  buying,  any  parcel  of  land  offered  for  sale. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


61 


Concern  has  been  raised  that  section  429(1)  is  in  direct  conflict  with  section 
173(c)  that  allows  a  councillor  to  purchase  any  other  property  other  than  tax 
recovery  property  from  the  municipality  subject  to  approval  of  the  Council. 

It  is  requested  that  the  inconsistency  between  sections  173(c)  and  429(1) 
be  clarified. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  Grande  Prairie. 


96    Clarify  the  Warning  of  Sale  in  Tax  Recovery  Process  for 
Designated  IVIanufactured  Homes 


The  Municipal  Government  Amendment  Act,  1998,  introduced  a  new  tax 
recovery  process  for  designated  manufactured  homes.  Section  436.03(1 ) (a) 
states  that  a  municipality  must  annually,  not  later  than  March  31 ,  prepare  a  tax 
arrears  list  that  shows  the  designated  manufactured  homes  in  the  municipality  in 
respect  of  which  there  are  tax  arrears  for  more  than  or  less  than  one  year. 

Section  436.08(1)  further  states  that  not  later  than  August  1  of  the  year  following 
preparation  of  the  tax  arrears  list,  the  municipality  must  send  written  notice  to  the 
affected  parties  warning  of  the  impending  sale.  As  August  1  follows  the  March 
31  date,  the  words  "of  the  year"  are  not  required.  Furthermore,  it  implies  that  a 
further  year  is  available  in  the  process  and  this  was  not  intended. 

It  is  requested  that  section  436.08(1)  be  amended  by  deleting  the  words  "of 
the  year"  following  "August  1". 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


97    Enforce  Reporting  Requirements  for  Designated  l\/lanufactured 
Homes 


A  new  tax  recovery  process  was  introduced  in  the  MGA  in  1998  for  designated 
manufactured  homes. 

Section  436.24  addressed  reporting  requirements  regarding  ownership  and 
movement  of  designated  manufactured  homes.  However,  an  enforcement 
clause  was  inadvertently  left  out  of  the  final  version  of  the  Bill. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


62 


It  is  requested  that  a  new  subsection  436.24(3)  be  added  that  states: 

(3)  Failure  to  comply  with  a  bylaw  passed  under  subsection  (2)  is 
deemed  to  be  an  offence  under  the  Municipal  Government  Act 
and  is  subject  to  the  penalties  specified  in  section  566. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


63 


X 


Requested  Amendments  for  1999  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act 
Comments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


Respondent: 

Position: 

Representing: 


89    Recover  Costs  Related  to  Contaminated  Parcels 


90    Deny  Removal  of  Tax  Recovery  Notification 


91    Enforce  Collection  of  Rent  for  Tax  Arrears 


92    Add  Rural  Electrification  Liens  on  Title  of  Tax  Recovery  Lands 


93    Clarify  Acquisition  of  Condominiums  in  Tax  Recovery  Proceedings 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


65 


94    Add  Provincial  Contributions  to  Costs  of  Contaminated  Sites 


95    Clarify  Bidding  for  and  Buying  of  Tax  Recovery  Land 


96    Clarify  the  Warning  of  Sale  in  Tax  Recovery  Process  for  Designated 
Manufactured  Homes 


97    Enforce  Reporting  Requirements  for  Designated  Manufactured  Homes 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Tax  Recovery  Processes 


66 


98    Remove  Retro-activity  of  NRCB  and  AEUB  Decisions 


Section  619  came  into  effect  on  September  1 ,  1995.  This  section  states  that  any 
decision  by  the  Natural  Resources  Conservation  Board  (NRCB)  or  Alberta 
Energy  and  Utilities  Board  (AEUB)  prevails  over  any  local  land  use  decisions. 
The  NRCB  decision  relating  to  the  Three  Sisters  development  in  Canmore  was 
effective  November  25,  1992. 

The  purpose  of  section  619  is  to  establish  the  paramountcy  of  provincial 
decisions  while  maintaining  flexibility  for  local  land  use  decisions. 

It  is  requested  that  section  619(1)  be  amended  by  inserting  "after 
September  1, 1995"  after  ttie  letters  "AEUB."  The  essence  of  the  request  is 
that  section  619  would  not  apply  to  the  NRCB  decision  regarding  Canmore. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


99    Add  Mediation  as  a  Prerequisite  to  Dispute  Hearings 


The  MGA  allows  the  Municipal  Government  Board  (MGB)  to  hear  certain 
disputes  involving  both  municipalities  and  landowners.  Specifically,  these  are: 

•  appeals  pursuant  to  section  619; 

•  intermunicipal  disputes;  and 

•  disputed  annexation  applications. 

In  each  of  these  situations  the  MGB  is  required  to  hold  a  formal  hearing  and  to 
make  a  decision.  Hearings  are  often  time-consuming  and  expensive.  The 
decision  may  not  completely  satisfy  the  parties  involved.  Prior  to  the  dispute 
being  filed  with  the  MGB,  it  would  be  advantageous  to  require  all  parties  involved 
in  a  dispute  to  attempt  a  joint  resolution  of  the  particular  dispute. 

It  is  requested  that  new  provisions  be  added  to  require  that  a  formal 
mediation  process,  or  other  dispute  resolution  processes,  take  place  prior 
to  any  submission  to  the  MGB  in  the  case  of  intermunicipal  disputes, 
appeals  pursuant  to  section  619,  and  contested  annexation  applications. 

A  related  amendment  would  require,  in  the  case  of  intermunicipal  disputes, 
that  the  outcome  of  the  dispute  resolution  process  would  be  the  subject  of 
a  public  hearing  pursuant  to  section  692. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  Sen/ices  Branch  of  Alberta  Municipal 
Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


67 


100  Clarify  Reasonable  Fees 


The  MGA  specifies  that  a  council  may  establish  and  charge  fees  for  matters 
under  Part  17  (Planning  and  Development). 

Concern  has  been  raised  that  fees  charged  by  some  municipalities  are 
excessive  and  should  be  based  on  cost  recovery,  not  profit  generation.  The 
MGA  refers  to  the  term  "reasonable"  in  other  sections  based  on  generally 
accepted  case  law. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  include  a  reference  to 
"reasonable"  in  the  establishment  and  charging  of  fees  in  Part  17. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Urban  Development  Institute,  Ganmore  Chapter. 


101  Require  Intermunicipal  Development  Plans 


The  MGA  authorizes  two  or  more  councils  to  enter  into  an  intermunicipal 
development  plan.  This  provision  is  discretionary,  not  mandatory. 

To  address  land  use  conflicts  in  fringe  areas,  some  municipalities  have 
suggested  that  intermunicipal  development  plans  be  made  mandatory  rather 
than  relying  on  the  Municipal  Government  Board  to  resolve  these  conflicts. 

It  is  requested  that  intermunicipal  development  plans  be  made  mandatory. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  County  of  Camrose. 


102    Reduce  or  Eliminate  Population  Threshold  for  Municipal 
Development  Plans 


Section  632(1)  requires  a  municipality  with  a  population  of  3500  or  more  to  adopt 
a  municipal  development  plan.  Section  632(2)  makes  the  adoption  of  a 
municipal  development  plan  discretionary  for  those  municipalities  with  a 
population  of  less  than  3500. 

In  the  absence  of  an  intermunicipal  development  plan,  there  is  a  concern  that 
smaller  municipalities  will  not  have  explicit  land  use  policies  in  place  that  address 
incompatible  land  uses,  growth  pattern  issues,  and  infrastructure  requirements 
near  municipal  boundaries. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


68 


It  is  requested  that  sections  632(1)  and  632(2)  be  amended  to  reduce  or 
eliminate  the  population  threshold  for  adopting  a  municipal  development 
plan. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Mr.  Ernie  Patterson,  Mayor  of  Claresholm. 


103  Expand  Mandatory  Provisions  of  Municipal  Development  Plans 


The  MGA  outlines  the  requirements  for  the  preparation  of  a  municipal 
development  plan  including  the  contents  of  such  plans.  The  contents  have  both 
mandatory  and  discretionary  provisions. 

It  is  requested  section  632(3)(a)(iii)  and  (iv)  be  amended  to  refer  to 
guidelines  to  address  the  coordination  of  land  use,  future  growth  patterns, 
transportation  and  other  infrastructure  with  adjacent  municipalities. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Town  of  High  Prairie. 


104  Enforce  Consistency  Between  Land  Use  Bylaws  and  Statutory^ 
Plans  : 


Section  638  requires  that  all  statutory  plans  be  consistent  with  one  another.  The 
MGA  is  silent  on  the  relationship  between  a  land  use  bylaw  and  statutory  plans. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  be  added  that  requires  land  use  bylaws  to 
be  consistent  with  statutory  plans. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Fort  Saskatchewan. 


105  Clarify  Advertising  Provisions  Regarding  Changes  to  Direct 
Control  Districts 


The  MGA  allows  a  council  to  designate  a  direct  control  district  in  its  land  use 
bylaw.  In  this  district  a  council  may  "regulate  and  control  the  use  or  development 
of  land  or  buildings  in  any  manner  it  considers  necessary." 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


69 


The  MGA  is  unclear  whether  this  wording  allows  a  council  to  adopt  and  amend 
standards  In  the  direct  control  district  by  resolution  once  the  original  district  has 
been  established.  In  conventional  districts,  council  is  required  to  hold  a  public 
hearing  when  a  land  use  bylaw  is  adopted  or  amended. 

it  is  requested  tiiat  section  641(2)  be  amended  to  mal<e  it  dear  ttiat  any 
ctianges  to  tlie  standards  in  a  direct  controi  district,  after  it  iias  been 
created,  will  be  subject  to  the  advertising  provisions  of  section  692. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Mountain  View  County. 


106  Deny  Development  Permit  After  Issuance  of  Stop  Order 


The  MGA  provides  for  the  issuance  of  a  stop  order  where  a  development  does 
not  comply  with  the  land  use  bylaw,  regulations,  development  permit  or 
subdivision  approval. 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  when  a  development  permit  has  been  applied 
for  after  a  stop  order  has  been  issued,  the  permit  application  would  suspend  the 
stop  order. 

It  is  requested  that  section  645  be  amended  to  state  that  where  a  stop  order 
has  been  issued,  a  development  permit  application  for  the  same  lot  cannot 
be  submitted  until  the  conditions  of  the  stop  order  have  been  satisfied. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


107  Impose  Fines  Regarding  Non-Compliance  of  Stop  Order 


The  MGA  provides  a  number  of  options  for  municipalities  to  enforce  stop  orders, 
including  judicial  review. 

In  some  cases,  these  options  may  be  ineffective  and  time-consuming. 

It  Is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  allow  a  subdivision  and 
development  appeal  board  to  Impose  fines  In  the  case  of  non-compliance 
with  a  stop  order  and  adding  non-payment  of  these  fines  to  the  tax  roll. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


70 


108  Modify  Off-site  Levies 


Section  648  allows  for  the  imposition  of  an  off-site  levy  on  lands  to  be  developed 
or  subdivided.  This  levy  can  only  be  used  for  capital  costs  relating  to  water, 
sanitary  sewage,  or  storm  drainage  facilities,  and  lands  required  for  these 
facilities. 

Due  to  increasing  growth  pressures,  municipalities  are  requesting  that  the 
existing  provisions  be  expanded  to  include,  for  example,  recreation  facilities  and 
arterial  roads.  The  Premier's  Task  Force  on  Infrastructure  is  reviewing  this  issue 
among  others. 

It  is  requested  that  section  648  be  amended  to  include  additional  charges 
that  municipalities  may  impose  on  lands  to  be  subdivided  or  developed. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Calgary,  Leduc  County,  and  the  Alberta 
Urban  Municipalities  Association. 

The  development  industry,  on  the  other  hand,  argues  that  in  many  cases  off-site 
levy  funds  are  reallocated  to  non-qualifying  infrastructure.  It  claims,  for  example, 
that  municipalities  are  starting  to  use  off-site  levies  to  pay  for  the  replacement  of 
aging  water  and  sewer  lines,  rather  than  for  new  or  expanded  facilities  that 
service  new  developments.  There  is  a  concern  that  new  or  replacement  facilities 
in  other  areas  are  being  charged  1 00  per  cent  to  new  development. 

It  is  requested  that  section  648  be  amended  to  require  that  off-site  levies  be 
used  solely  for  new  and  expanded  infrastructure  that  benefits  new 
development  and  to  ensure  that  all  projects  included  in  an  off-site  levy 
bylaw  be  specifically  approved  by  council. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Urban  Development  Institute,  Canmore  Chapter. 


109  Exempt  Minor  Subdivision  Applications  From  Referral  Process 


The  MGA  requires  a  limited  referral  process  for  all  subdivision  applications 
subject  to  the  Subdivision  and  Development  Regulation. 

While  the  referral  process  has  been  significantly  altered  as  a  result  of  the  1995 
MGA  amendments,  concern  has  been  expressed  that  in  some  instances 
referrals  are  not  necessary  (e.g.  minor  applications  involving  boundary 
adjustments). 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


71 


It  is  requested  that  "minor"  subdivision  appiications  be  exempted  from  the 
referral  process  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  Minister  of  Municipal  Affairs. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


1 10  Modify  a  Subdivision  Approval 


The  MGA  provides  for  a  14  day  appeal  period  following  the  decision  of  the 
subdivision  authority.  The  Act  makes  no  allowances  for  adjustments  to  the 
approved  subdivision  plan  after  the  appeal  period  has  lapsed. 

There  are  instances  where  minor  adjustments  are  necessary  following,  for 
example,  a  survey  of  boundary  lines. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  allow  a  subdivision  authority  to 
allow  minor  adjustments  to  an  approved  subdivision  plan  and/or 
conditions  of  approval. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


111   Clarify  Definition  of  Body  of  Water 


The  MGA  allows  a  subdivision  authority  to  require  lands  to  be  dedicated  as 
environmental  reserve  in  certain  instances.  One  of  these  instances  includes  a 
reference  to  "other  body  of  water." 

The  term  "other  body  of  water"  is  not  defined  in  the  MGA,  but  the  Subdivision 
and  Development  Regulation  [section  5(2)]  specifically  excludes  "dugouts, 
drainage  ditches,  man  made  lakes  or  other  similar  man  made  bodies  of  water"  in 
its  definition  of  "body  of  water." 

It  is  requested  that  section  664(1 )(c)  be  amended  to  specifically  exclude 
"dugouts,  drainage  ditches,  man  made  lakes  or  other  similar  man  made 
bodies  of  water"  after  "other  body  of  water. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


72 


1 12  Add  Reserve  Dedication  For  Targeted  Housing\ 


Under  section  666,  a  subdivision  authority  may  require  the  owner  of  land  that  is 
proposed  for  subdivision  to  dedicate  up  to  10  per  cent  of  that  land  (net  of  land  for 
environmental  reserve  and  land  made  subject  to  an  environmental  reserve 
easement)  as  municipal  reserve,  school  reserve  or  both. 

There  is  a  shortage  of  affordable  housing  in  some  Alberta  communities  for  low 
income  families,  low  income  seniors  and  people  with  special  needs.  One  reason 
for  the  shortage  could  be  that  private  developers  find  it  more  profitable  to  serve 
other  sectors  of  the  housing  market. 

It  was  suggested  at  the  Affordable  Housing  Symposium  held  in  June  1998  that 
the  imbalance  in  housing  supply  could  be  reduced  if  municipalities  were 
authorized  under  the  MGA  to  require  the  separate  dedication  of  subdivision  land 
for  "targeted  housing"  in  addition  to  the  dedication  of  land  for  municipal  and/or 
school  reserve.  This  power  would  allow  a  municipality  to  build  an  inventory  of 
sites  suitable  for  housing  projects  meeting  the  needs  of  people  who  are 
inadequately  served.  On  the  other  hand,  the  cost  of  the  additional  dedication  to 
the  developer  would  likely  be  passed  on  in  higher  costs  for  the  other  parcels  in 
the  subdivision. 

It  is  requested  that  section  666  be  amended  to  include  a  reserve  for 
targeted  housing. 

This  issue  was  raised  at  the  Affordable  Housing  Symposium. 


1 13  Clarify  Use  of  Reserves  for  Sctiool  Auttiority  Purposes 


The  MGA  specifies  for  what  purpose  reserve  lands  can  be  used.  One  of  the 
prescribed  uses  is  for  "school  authority  purposes."  The  MGA  does  not  define 
what  the  term  school  authority  purposes  means. 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  school  authorities  are  using  funds  collected 
through  the  money-in-lieu  of  reserve  provisions  to  pay  for  items  or  programs  not 
related  to  the  general  intent  of  section  671  (2). 

It  is  requested  that  section  671(2)  be  amended  to  either  restrict  the  use  of 
monies  used  for  "school  authority  purposes"  to  land  for  schools  and 
school  related  buildings  or  allow  municipalities  to  use  reserves  for 
"municipal  purposes. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Wainwright  No.  61 . 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


73 


1 14  Clarify  Disposal  of  Environmental  Reserve 


The  MGA  allows  a  council  to  "lease  or  dispose  of  an  environnriental  reserve  other 
than  by  sale  for  a  term  of  not  more  than  3  years." 

Since  environmental  reserve  cannot  be  sold,  it  is  unclear  what  the  reference  to 
"or  dispose  of"  means  in  this  context. 

It  is  requested  that  section  676(1 )(c)  be  amended  to  delete  the  words  "or 
dispose  of. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Legislative  Projects,  Alberta  Municipal  Affairs. 


1 15  Reduce  Subdivision  Appeal  Period  With  Consent  of  All  Parties 


The  MGA  provides  for  appeals  on  subdivision  applications  by  the  applicant,  a 
government  department  (if  the  application  was  circulated  to  the  department 
pursuant  to  the  Subdivision  and  Development  Regulation),  a  council  or  a  school 
authority.  The  appeal  period  is  14  days  from  receipt  of  the  written  decision  by 
the  subdivision  authority  (plus  5  days,  as  the  date  of  receipt  is  deemed  to  be  5 
days  from  the  date  of  the  decision). 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  if  none  of  the  referral  agencies  has  any 
objections,  there  is  no  need  to  wait  the  19  days  to  process  the  application. 

It  is  requested  that  the  appeal  period  be  shortened  where  all  the  referral 
agencies  noted  in  section  678  have  no  objection  to  the  subdivision 
application. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Oldman  River  Intermunicipal  Service  Agency. 


1 16  Hear  Subdivision  Appeals  at  Local  Level  Only 


The  MGA  specifies  that,  with  the  exception  of  specified  provincial  interest  areas, 
all  subdivision  appeals  are  heard  by  the  local  subdivision  and  development 
appeal  board. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  have  all  subdivision  appeals 
heard  at  the  local  level. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Association  of  Municipal  Districts  and 
Counties. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


74 


117  Clarify  Relationship  Between  Land  Use  Policies  and  Statutory 
Plans 


The  MGA  states  that  in  hearing  a  subdivision  appeal,  an  appeal  board  "must 
have  regard  to  any  statutory  plan"  and  its  decision  "must  be  consistent  with  the 
land  use  policies."  In  hearing  development  appeals,  an  appeal  board  "must 
comply  with"  the  land  use  policies  and  statutory  plan. 

There  are  differing  opinions  on  the  meaning  of  the  above  wordings  used  in  the 
subdivision  appeal  sections. 

It  Is  requested  that  subsections  680(2)(a)  and  (c)  be  amended  by  replacing 
the  references  to  "must  have  regard  to"  and  "must  be  consistent  with"  with 
"must  comply  with. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


118  Clarify  Development  Appeal  Process 


The  MGA  allows  development  appeals  to  occur  in  two  situations: 

•  where  the  permit  is  refused  or  conditionally  approved;  and 

•  where  a  stop  order  is  issued. 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  the  subdivision  and  development  appeal 
board  (SDAB)  may  hear  arguments  on  the  same  issue  twice. 

It  is  requested  that  section  685  be  amended  so  that  when  a  development 
permit  is  appealed  to  the  SDAB,  a  stop  order  to  uphold  the  SDAB  decision 
cannot  be  appealed. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


1 19  Apply  Evidentiary  Matters  to  Subdivision  and  Development 
Appeal  Board  Hearings 


The  MGA  allows  an  applicant  for  a  development  permit  to  appeal  to  the 
subdivision  and  development  appeal  board. 

There  have  been  a  number  of  instances  where  the  information  raised  at  the 
appeal  board  hearing  is  significantly  different  than  what  was  presented  to  the 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


75 


development  authority.  This  places  the  appeal  board  in  a  difficult  position  as  the 
development  authority  has  not  had  the  opportunity  to  review  and  comment  on 
the  new  information. 

It  is  requested  that  a  new  section  be  added  to  reflect  the  principle  that  an 
applicant  may  present  to  the  subdivision  and  development  appeal  board 
only  that  information  that  was  supplied  to  the  development  authority  at  the 
time  of  the  initial  development  permit  application. 

This  issue  was  a  resolution  carried  by  the  membership  of  the  Alberta  Association 
of  Municipal  Districts  and  Counties. 


120  Allow  Development  Permit  and  Redistrlcting  Application  to  Vary 
Appeal  Board  Decision 


The  MGA  provides  for  the  application  for  a  development  permit  and  a  process  to 
amend  a  land  use  bylaw  district  designation.  This  includes  the  situation  where  a 
person  applies  for  a  new  development  permit  following  a  decision  by  the 
subdivision  and  development  appeal  board  (SDAB)  or  applies  for  a  redistrlcting 
following  a  stop  order  upheld  by  the  SDAB. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  so  that  development  permit 
applications  or  redistrlcting  applications  that  are  intended  simply  to  vary 
the  SDAB  decision  should  not  be  permitted. 

The  MGA  does  allow  a  land  use  bylaw  to  specify  a  time  period  within  which  a 
development  application  or  change  in  land  use  designation  may  not  be 
submitted  following  a  refusal  decision. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  Leduc  County. 


121  Remove  Municipal  Address  in  Notice  Provisions  for  Land  Use 
Bylaw  Amendments 


In  addition  to  the  normal  public  hearing  provisions,  the  MGA  requires  that  when 
an  amendment  to  a  land  use  bylaw  is  made  to  change  the  district  designation  of 
a  parcel  of  land,  the  municipal  address  must  appear  on  the  notice  as  well  as  a 
map  and  legal  address. 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  this  provision  requires  additional  costs  to  and 
resources  from  the  municipality,  and  increases  the  risk  of  error  and  a  legal 
challenge  where  a  wrong  address  has  been  recorded. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


76 


It  is  requested  that  section  692(4)(a)(i)  be  amended  to  delete  the  reference 
to  "the  municipal  address,  if  any. " 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  City  of  Edmonton. 


122  Allow  or  Prohibit  Conditions  on  Land  Use  District 
Redesignations 


The  MGA  outlines  the  process  for  amending  a  land  use  bylaw  including  the  need 
for  a  public  hearing  and  specific  notification  requirements.  The  purpose  of 
creating  land  use  districts  is  to  provide  a  degree  of  certainty  to  the  landowner  as 
to  the  uses  that  are  permitted.  The  Act  is  silent  on  whether  conditions  can  be 
attached  to  land  use  re-designations. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  allow  conditions  to  be  placed 
on  re-designations  to  alleviate  the  potential  of  having  parcels  with  no 
building  site  or  ability  to  meet  other  site  criteria. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Municipal  District  of  Rocky  View  No.  44. 

The  development  industry,  on  the  other  hand,  argues  that  all  land  use  bylaws 
can  be  structured  to  provide  for  site-specific  conditions  of  development  in 
specific  land  use  districts.  Site-specific  concerns  can  be  addressed  at  both  the 
development  permit  application  and  subdivision  application  stage.  It  is 
suggested  that  if  councils  have  legitimate  concerns  about  a  proposed 
redistricting  bylaw,  the  proposed  bylaw  can  be  defeated  or  the  application  can  be 
amended  to  delete  a  contentious  area. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  specifically  prohibit  attaching 
conditions  to  a  land  use  bylaw  proposal. 

The  courts  have  held  that  redistricting  a  site  and  then  limiting  the  uses  on  the  site 
to  fewer  than  those  authorized  for  other  lands  in  the  same  district  is 
discriminatory  and  illegal. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Urban  Development  Institute,  Canmore  Chapter. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


77 


123  Clarify  Jurisdiction  of  the  l\/iunicipal  Government  Board 
Regarding  l\/lunicipal  Fringe  ll/latters 


Section  11  of  the  Subdivision  and  Development  Regulation  expired  on  March  31, 
1998.  The  MGA  and  the  Provincial  Land  Use  Policies  encourage  intermunicipal 
cooperation  including  the  preparation  of  joint  municipal  development  plans.  With 
some  exceptions,  subdivision  appeals  are  heard  by  the  local  subdivision  and 
development  appeal  board. 

Concern  has  been  expressed  that  the  Municipal  Government  Board  (MGB) 
could,  where  applicable,  rule  on  matters  in  the  municipal  fringe  areas  to  the 
detriment  of  municipal  decisions. 

It  is  requested  that  the  MGA  be  amended  to  ensure  provincial  regulations 
providing  protection  to  a  municipal  fringe  area  cannot  be  overturned  by  the 
MGB. 

It  is  also  requested  that  the  Subdivision  and  Development  Regulation  and 
Land  Use  Policies  be  amended  to  disallow  any  development  within  3.2km 
of  an  urban  municipality  unless  a  joint  municipal  development  plan  is  in 
place. 

This  issue  was  raised  by  the  Alberta  Urban  Municipalities  Association. 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


78 


X 


Requested  Amendments  for  1999  to  the  Municipal  Government  Act 
Comments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


Respondent:   

Position:   

Representing:  

98    Remove  Retro-activity  of  NRCB  and  EUB  Decisions 


99    Add  Mediation  as  a  Prerequisite  to  Dispute  Hearings 


100  Clarify  Reasonable  Fees 


101  Require  Intermunicipal  Development  Plans 


102  Reduce  or  Eliminate  Population  Threshold  for  Municipal  Development 
Plans 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


79 


103    Expand  Mandatory  Provisions  of  Municipal  Development  Plans 


104  Enforce  Consistency  Between  Land  Use  Bylaws  and  Statutory  Plans 


105  Clarify  Advertising  Provisions  Regarding  Changes  to  Direct  Control  Districts 


106  Deny  Development  Permit  After  Issuance  of  Stop  Order 


107  Impose  Fines  Regarding  Non-Compliance  of  Stop  Order 


108  Modify  Off-site  Levies 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


80 


109  Exempt  Minor  Subdivision  Applications  From  Referral  Process 


110  Modify  a  Subdivision  Approval 


1 1 1  Clarify  Definition  of  Body  of  Water 


112  Add  Resen/e  Dedication  for  Targeted  Housing 


113  Clarify  Use  of  Reserves  for  School  Authority  Purposes 


114  Clarify  Disposal  of  Environmental  Reserve 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


81 


115  Reduce  Subdivision  Appeal  Period  With  Consent  of  All  Parties 


116  Hear  Subdivision  Appeals  at  Local  Level  Only 


117  Clarify  Relationship  Between  Land  Use  Policies  and  Statutory  Plans 


118  Clarify  Development  Appeal  Process 


119  Apply  Evidentiary  Matters  to  Subdivision  and  Development  Appeal  Board 
Hearings 


120  Allow  Development  Permit  and  Redistricting  Application  to  Vary  Appeal 
Board  Decision 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


82 


121  Remove  Municipal  Address  in  Notice  Provisions  for  Land  Use  Bylaw 
Amendments 


122  Allow  or  Prohibit  Conditions  on  Land  Use  District  Redesignations 


123  Clarify  Jurisdiction  of  the  Municipal  Government  Board  Regarding  Municipal 
Fringe  Matters 


Requested  Amendments  Relating  to  Planning  and  Development 


83 


