MISSOURI DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
DIVISION OF PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION 


BOARD 
REPORT 


STATE BOARD OF CHIROPRACTIC EXAMINERS P.O. BOX 672 JEFFERSON CITY, MO 65102 VOL. 6, NO. 1 DECEMBER, 1999 


Renewal Fee Increase 


At its meeting on June 3, 1999, the Missouri 
State Board of Chiropractic Examiners voted 
unanimously to approve a $25.00 increase in the 
annual renewal fee. The current renewal fee is 
$125.00. The new renewal fee is $150.00. 


“It was a difficult decision to raise the renewal 
fee,” said Larry J. Lovejoy, D.C., President of 
the State Board of Chiropractic Examiners, 
“however, the Board has known for the past cou- 
ple of years that we were faced with a possible 
renewal fee increase.” Since fiscal year 1997, 
the Board’s operational expenses have exceeded 
the revenue collected for the year. In fiscal year 
1997, the expenses exceeded revenue by $34,560 
in fiscal year 1998, expenses exceeded revenue 
by $30,793 and in fiscal year 1999 expenses ex- 
ceeded revenue by $57,796. To cover the 
Board’s operational costs, it is estimated that the 
Board will need to generate approximately 
$32,500 in additional revenues. 


Under Section 331.070, RSMo, the Board is 
required to be totally self-supporting. All the 
salaries and expenses for the operation of the 
Board must be appropriated and paid from the 
“State Board of Chiropractic Examiners’ Fund.” 
Although the Board has instituted measures to 
cut costs, such as reducing staff and office space 
rental, there have been other expenses beyond 
the Board’s control. These include the Board’s 
share of the cost for the Hancock Income Tax 
Refund to all taxpayers. Additionally, the Board 
has been paying its share of a new licensing sys- 


(573) 751-2104 


tem for the Division of Professional Registra- 
tion. The current system is antiquated and is 
not Y2K compatible. 


The renewal fee increase goes into effect 
December 1, 1999. The Board believes the 
licensee’s cost savings with the new continu- 
ing education rules for 1999 will more than 
offset the $25 renewal fee increase. The new 
continuing education rules allow a licensee to 
earn twelve of the twenty-four hour require- 
ment through “other continuing education ex- 
periences.” Information regarding what is 
considered “other continuing education expe- 
riences” was published in the Board’s Novem- 
ber 1998 Newsletter. For those licensees not 
receiving the November 1998 Newsletter, 
please contact the Board Office and ask for a 
copy of the amended rule, 4 CSR 70-2.080, 
Annual License Renewal. 


IN THIS ISSUE..... 


Renewal Fee Increase 

Legislative Update 

Continuing Education Requirements 
Complaint Information 
Advertisements 

Disciplinary Actions 

New Licensing System Implemented 
Next Meeting 


(573) 751-0735 FAX 


¢ asp uo panuyuod 


‘ILIV IDUBINSUI UL WIOA SjtjauIg (q) 


‘ 
AD HOSES eC) Mout soseured () ‘TOIS9 OW ‘AID Wossassof ‘ZLOT XOG ‘O'd “AOASIN :0} soponse juqng 
210] quoned B JO WIR) & : , Tel),, (1) ‘sIouTUIeXY oNovidomyD Jo pleog oyv1g LnossIpy ‘UONeNSIsay [euOTS 


SUBOUT [[eYS SULI9y SuIMOTIOF ay} ‘OSZ0Er -S9JOIg JO UOISIAIG oy) JO UONRoTTGnd [erIoTJo ue st yodoy preog oy] 
0} SctCOEh SUOKI0S Ul pysn SV “TS? OEP 


"SMOT[OJF MPT UST] MOU OY} JO 3X9} O}9[CUIOD OY, 
‘OST OEP 91 OFZ OEP SUOTII—S UT sTeIdsoy 0} poyURIs 
SIYSII UST] OURS OY) DALY [JIM suvToIskyd onovidor 
-TYD ‘sioptaoid oreo yyeoy Joyo pue suerorsAyd on 
-deICOMYS 1OJ MP] UST] MOU B Sd}IIO OSTR [[IQ UL 


"SOIIATI]O’ ISoY} WOT UOSIod B 
urofus 0} ayetidordde aq Avur se JapsO Idy}O JO JapsO 
SUIUTe.NSoI ‘UOT}OUNTUT Ue Yoos 0} AJLIOYINE oY) YIM 
pieog oy sopraoid [Iq sty) ‘orjqnd oy) Jo orejjam 
Jo Ajajes ‘yeoy oy} 0} Josuep snorias Jo AqTIGe 
-qoid jenurysqns ev syuosoid [eNpIAIpUl posudoT] & JI 
JO ‘SonTANOR soTNNvId pasuddI[UN UI SUISeSUO SI yen 
-PIAIPUL Ue Jey) PUNO} st Jy “AyoyNe sanounfur 
WIM pleog oy) sapraoid osye ¢pE ‘ON [Pq esnoy 


‘(L00Z “87 
Arenigo{ 01 OOOT ‘I Yosef) potsed seaX-au0 & JOJ 


2q [TNS [[IM IeoX sty) [eMOUdY “safN1 s preog oy} 
0} sJUdWIpUsWe JUSWATduUIT 0} poposuU su) ay) JO 
asneseq [QOZ JeoA OY) Ul poyreU oe syeMoUdI [HUN 
poyuswsydunt oq jou AjOyI] [[IM osuRYyd sIy} ‘IdA0 
-MOH “IeoX AIOAO STRMOUAI SUTSSId0I1d UY) 9ANDIJ 
-J9 JSOD JOU 9q [JIM IBA JOYIO AIOAD STRMOUSI SUI 
-SSoo0id yey} Poadl[aq SI jt asnedeq A[dunts [eMmoudI 
[etuuslq & syoddns preog ayy, ‘[eMouel yeruUsTq 
B SozlIoyyNe WY} YOSO'IEE UONdSEg 0} JUOWPpUoWe 
ue opnypour sioumuexq onovidomyg jo pieog 
aeig oy Aq powoddns soasueys oy} 3nq spieoq 
SuIsUdoT]T [euOIssajoid oy) Jo Aueul syooyye |[IG 
SIUL “6661 ‘87 IsNSNY UO JoaIJo OJUT JUOM T]IG OL 
6661 ‘ET ATae¢ UO JOUIZAOD oy) Aq pousis sem pur 
‘(UOISSIS DANLISISIT Oy) JO ABP ISP] YI) 6661 ‘PI 
Av UO dINjeISTsa] ay} passed pe “ON [[IG esnoH 


aqopdn, aay) iB az 


.NAWdOTSAAC DIWONODS 40 LNAWLeVdSd 


rHNOSS IN 


SN OUI'9}e)S"[IeU ® OITYO 
/ortya/id/snour'a}e}s'ASpOdT MMM 2 TIA 


xbJ SELO-ISL (ELS) 
POIT-ISL (ELS) 
ZOIS9 OW ‘AND Uosrajjor 
ZLO XO ‘O'd 
preagfnog LINOsstfy CO9E 


uvlolmyoay, SUISUdOTT ‘Ia}00¢g peyD 
uvIOIUYIaT, SUISUDOTT ‘sUdMG vIOINeg 
JURISISSY WeIsOIg ‘spjouday AO 
JOO sANIEXY ‘ZjouUIa}S vUUOG 
PIS 


Linosstpy ‘AjID sesuey 
Jaquia 114d ‘TIHH “S MnopeYD 


LIMOssIpJ ‘0}0S9q 
‘O' ‘axOATOH “VW Arey 


LINosstfy ‘UO}SUTYSE AA 
‘O'd ‘UlajsIeyH ‘Py soueIMeET 


LMosstpq ‘AID yeysAID 
‘O'd “wwsuIsuIpy “gq sopreyD 


LMossip ‘AWD sesuey 
Areyoloag “aq ‘UOspreyory 90°] 


Lnosstpq ‘ydasor 1¢ 
quopisaig “aq ‘Aofaao7T ‘¢ Arey 


SIOUIWUeX'Y INIVIdO.AIYD JO pAvOG 9}k}¢ LINossIy\, 


Joa ‘“Iasurg ‘f [Tepuey 
UOHL.YSISIY [BUOISSIJO1g JO UOISIAIG 


JoJIIG ‘[[FYsuq “TJ ydosor 
qusuidoaaeqg dIMI0U0DY JO yUsUAeEdaq 


ueyeUuled Joy] a]qviouoy oy,L, 
IOUIOA05) 


Continued from Page 2 


(2) "Clinic", a group practice of health 
practitioners or a sole practice of a 
health practitioner who has incorpo- 
rated his or her practice; 


(3) ''Health practitioner", a chiropractor 
licensed pursuant to chapter 331, RSMo, 
a podiatrist licensed pursuant to chapter 
330, RSMo, a dentist licensed pursuant 
to chapter 332, RSMo, a physician or 
surgeon licensed pursuant to chapter 
334, RSMo, or an optometrist licensed 
pursuant to chapter 336, RSMo, while 
acting within the scope of their practice; 


(4) "Insurance carrier", any person, 
firm, corporation, association or aggre- 
gation of persons conducting an insur- 
ance business pursuant to chapter 375, 
376, 377, 378, 379, 380, 381 or 383, 
RSMo; 


(5) "Other institution", a legal entity ex- 
isting pursuant to the laws of this state 
which delivers treatment, care or main- 
tenance to patients who are sick or in- 
jured; 


(6) ''Patient", any person to whom a 
health practitioner, hospital, clinic or 
other institution delivers treatment, care 
or maintenance for sickness or injury 
caused by a tortfeasor from whom such 
person seeks damages or any insurance 
carrier which has insured such tortfea- 
sor. 


2. Clinics, health practitioners and other 
institutions, as defined in this section 
shall have the same rights granted to 
hospitals in sections 430.230 to 430.250. 


3. If the liens of such health practitio- 


ners, hospitals, clinics or other institu- 
tions exceed fifty percent of the amount 
due the patient, every health care practi- 
tioner, hospital, clinic or other institu- 
tion giving notice of its lien, as aforesaid, 
shall share in up to fifty percent of the 
net proceeds due the patient, in the pro- 
portion that each claim bears to the total 
amount of all other liens of health care 
practitioners, hospitals, clinics or other 
institutions. ''Net proceeds", as used in 
this section, means the amount remain- 
ing after the payment of contractual at- 
torney fees, if any, and other expenses of 
recovery. 


4. In administering the lien of the health 
care provider, the insurance carrier may 
pay the amount due secured by the lien 
of the health care provider directly, if 
the claimant authorizes it and does not 
challenge the amount of the customary 
charges or that the treatment provided 
was for injuries cause by the tortfeasor. 


5. Any health care provider electing to 
receive benefits hereunder releases the 
claimant from further liability on the 
cost of the services and treatment pro- 
vided to that point in time. 


Continuing Education 


Re quirements 


At its December 1999 board meeting, the 
board voted to change the continuing edu- 
cation reporting requirements. Effective 
immediately, continuing education must 
now be verified by the licensee on the 
annual renewal form. The licensee is no 


Continued on Page 4 


Page 3 


Continued from Page 3 


longer required to complete the continuing edu- 
cation report form. 


The Board felt that the continuing education 
report form was an undue burden on the licensee 
and therefore approved the more simplified 
method of verification. 


However, the licensee is still required to main- 
tain full and complete records of all C. E. credits 
earned for the two (2) previous reporting periods 
in addition to the current reporting period. The 
Board may conduct an audit of licensees to ver- 
ify compliance with the continuing education re- 
quirement. 


Since there still appears to be some confusion 
regarding the categories of continuing education 
hours required for annual license renewal, please 
review the following information carefully. 
During the 1999 continuing education reporting 
period (January 1 through December 31), licen- 
sees must earn at least twenty-four hours of ap- 
proved continuing education to renew by De- 
cember 31, 1999. Twelve of the twenty-four 
hours may be hours in what the Board has de- 
fined as “other continuing education experi- 
ences”. The Board defined “other continuing 
education experiences” in its December Board 
Report. We will not repeat that information in 
this Board Report but because of all the ques- 
tions, the Board wants to say that the easiest 
method to earn continuing education hours 
through “other continuing education experi- 
ences” is through home study. Licensees can 
earn all twelve hours in this category by reading 
professional materials, such as books, journals, 
and/or periodicals. These hours may also be 
earned by watching videos or listening to tapes. 
The key to what is considered acceptable materi- 
als is that it must be related to the practice of 
chiropractic. 


Page 4 


Another area of confusion regarding the con- 
tinuing education requirements is the question of 
when licensees are required to begin earning 
hours in HIV or infectious diseases. In the 1999 
reporting period, the twenty-four hours must be 
earned in the following categories: 


(a) Twelve hours of general (doctor’s choice) 
or twelve hours of “other continuing edu- 
cation experiences”; 

(b) Four hours of x-ray; 

(c) Four hours of differential or physical diagno- 
sis; and 

(d) Four hours of emergency procedures and/or 
boundary training. 


The Board will propose a rule change in 2000 
regarding the four (4) hour requirement in emer- 
gency procedures and/or boundary training. The 
proposal will require four (4) hours in emer- 
gency procedures, boundary training, Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) or infectious 
diseases. The Board felt that this change would 
simplify the requirements which now state that 
this four (4) hour C. E. requirement must alter- 
nate every third year with the HIV or infectious 


Complaint Informa- 


diseases. 


June 30" ended fiscal year 1999. During fiscal 
year 1999, the Board received forty-three com- 
plaints. This number increased by five from the 
previous fiscal year when the Board received 
thirty-eight complaints. The highest number of 
complaints was received from patients complain- 
ing that the chiropractor misrepresented his/her 
fees. 


Continued from Page 4 


Of the forty-three complaints received, ten 
were strictly allegations of fraud, deception 
or misrepresentation in obtaining or attempt- 
ing to obtain fees. Six additional complaints 
also contained allegations of fraud, decep- 
tion or misrepresentation in obtaining or at- 
tempting to obtain fees, bringing the total 
number of fee complaints to sixteen of the 
forty-three complaints, or approximately 
seven percent. To avoid these type of patient 
complaints, the Board strongly recommends 
that every patient be given a fee schedule 
prior to the time treatment is provided, and 
especially new patients that are not knowl- 
edgeable of the doctor’s fees. If the treat- 
ment is provided as a result of an advertised 
special, make sure the patient understands 
when the treatment for the advertised special 
is completed and then obtain the patient’s 
consent before providing further treatment 
that is going to result in additional fees. 


The number of complaints involving inap- 
propriate conduct, or sexual misconduct, de- 
clined in fiscal year 1999 by thirty-three per- 
cent. Last year, complaints involving inap- 
propriate conduct, or sexual misconduct, de- 
clined by twenty percent. The Board con- 
tributes this two-year decline in the number 
of sexual misconduct complaints to the at- 
tention focused on boundary training. The 
amendment to the Board’s rule on Annual 
License Renewal that was implemented in 
1998, established an additional four-hour 
continuing education requirement in either 
boundary training or emergency procedures. 
Many licensees elected to earn their addi- 
tional four hours of continuing education in 
the past two years in the category of bound- 
ary training and the Board believes that the 
statistics prove that it has been beneficial, if 
for no other reason that to make licensees 
more aware of the problem. 


Advertisements 


The Board would like to remind all licen- 
sees that an advertisement or solicitation, as 
defined by 12 CSR 70-2.060, shall not be 
false, misleading or deceptive to the general 
public or persons to whom the advertisement 
or solicitation is primarily directed. False, 
misleading and/or deceptive advertising shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following 
contents or omissions: 


1. Any untrue statement; 

2. Any matter, or presentation or arrange- 
ment of any matter, in a manner or format 
which is false, misleading or deceptive to the 
public; 

3. Omission of any fact which under the cir- 
cumstances makes the statement false, mis- 
leading or deceptive to the public; 

4. Transmission in a manner which involves 
coercion, intimidation, threats or harassing 
conduct; 

5. An attempt to attract patronage in a man- 
ner which castigates, impugns, disparages, 
discredits or attacks other healing arts and 
sciences or other chiropractic physicians; 

6. Any self-laudatory statements; 

7. Transmission to a person who has made 
known to the licensee a desire not to receive 
communication from the licensee; or 

8. A statement or implication that a licensee 
is a specialist unless the licensee holds a cur- 
rent certificate as a specialist, issued by the 
Missouri State Board of Chiropractic Exam- 
iners, or unless the advertisement contains a 
notice that neither Missouri nor the Missouri 
State Board of Chiropractic Examiners re- 
views or approves certifying organizations or 
specialist designations for chiropractic phy- 
sicians. 


Page 5 


S 
Qn 


iy 


Disciplinary Ac- 


Under Board Rule 4 CSR 70-2.066 (1), the 
Missouri State Board of Chiropractic Examiners 
must publish or cause to be published all disci- 
plinary actions regarding licensees, including the 
name of the licensee, the license number, any 
terms of suspension or probation, or other disci- 
plinary action whether by consent or order. Dis- 
ciplinary actions may be published in any pro- 
fessional journal read by licensed chiropractors 
practicing in Missouri, in any newspaper of gen- 
eral circulation, in any newsletter published by 
the Board, or in any of these publications. The 
Board has chosen to use its newsletter to comply 
with the provisions of this rule. Since the print- 
ing of the Board’s last newsletter in November, 
disciplinary action has been imposed on the fol- 
lowing licensees. 


David J. Goldberg, D.C. License No. 4927 


License suspended indefinitely by Court Order 
on December 17, 1998, as a result of a child sup- 
port enforcement action pursuant to Section 
454.1008.1(4), RSMo. 


Anthony R. Kirksey, D.C. License No. 3679 


License suspended for a period of one year, ef- 
fective December 11, 1998. All but sixty days 
of the suspension stayed with a three-year period 
of probation to run concurrent with the suspen- 
sion period for violating the terms and condi- 
tions of a prior disciplinary agreement with the 
board. 


Page 6 


Joseph F. Tangaro, D.C. License No. 5962 


License suspended effective December 21, 1998, 
for a period of two years. Suspension to be fol- 
lowed by a three-year period of probation for 
violating the terms and conditions of a prior dis- 
ciplinary agreement with the Board. 


Ryan D. Monson, D.C. License No. 6496 


On March 11, 1999, license was suspended for a 
period of three years followed by a five-year pe- 
riod of probation. The suspension shall com- 
mence on the date licensee re-establishes full 
time residency in Missouri. Discipline imposed 
for violation of Section 331.060.2(2) and (8), 
RSMo 1994. 


Joseph C. Probst, D.C. License No. 4903 


License suspended for a period of three years 
followed by a five-year period of probation. The 
suspension shall commence on the date chiro- 
practic license is reactivated in Missouri. Disci- 
pline imposed for violation of Section 331.060.2 
(2), RSMo 1994, 


David Turnbull, D.C. License No. 6014 


License suspended effective November 17, 1999 
for one year followed by a three-year period of 
probation. The one-year suspension stayed on 
the effective date. Discipline imposed for viola- 
tion of Section 331.060.2(6) and 331.060.2(7), 
RSMo 1994. 


New Licensure System Implemented 


On September 23, 1999, the Division of Professional Registration converted to a new 
licensure system called PROMO. PROMO is an acronym which stands for “Professional 
Registration of Missouri”, and it was developed by IFMC (lowa Foundation for Medical 
Care). PROMO is a software program with two components - a licensure system and com- 
plaint/investigations tracking system. Following is a brief description of the changes you will 
experience as a result of the new licensing system. 


> License Numbering System. With the previous mainframe system, a license number 
contained the profession code followed by a 4 to 6-digit number. With PROMO, a license 
number will be the year of license followed by a 6-digit number. Example: 1999134178. 
This is a Division-wide numbering system and will allow the Division to capture valuable li- 
censing information on a Division-wide scale. Professions that were licensed prior to Sep- 
tember 23, 1999 will still maintain their previous license number in the format of the profes- 
sion code followed by a 4-digit number. 


> New Security License Paper. Licenses are now being printed on a new security paper. 
Several small State of Missouri seals appear on the reverse of both the wallet-size card 
and wall-hanging document. The seals are in red ink. If you rub on a seal, it will fade. If 
you photocopy the license or wall-hanging document, VOID will appear on the photo- 
copy. You will also notice that the wallet-size card is laminated and both the wallet-size 
card and wall-hanging document are perforated for easy removal. 


> More Accessibility to Records. The new licensure system will allow staff to search for a 
licensee even if the caller is not exactly sure of the spelling. The system will also allow 
searches by previous last names. 


Since all Board and Commissions under the Division of Professional Registration share the 
same core business needs, it made sense to convert previous systems to one unified licensure 
system for the entire Division. Right now we have a lot of data in systems, with implementa- 
tion of the new PROMO system we are eager to transform that data into information and then 
wisdom. 


Page 7 


Division of Professional Registration 


Missouri State B : . ; 
PO Box 672 oard of Chiropractic Examiners 


Jefferson City MO 65102 


NEXT MEETING 


The Board’s next meeting will be held in March 
2000. The meeting will be held at the Missouri Divi- 
sion of Professional Registration in Jefferson City, 
Missouri. 


The public is invited to attend the open session 
of this meeting. Continuing education credits, up 
to two hours, can be earned by attending a State 
Board meeting. 


An open agenda is available for public distribu- 
tion approximately two weeks prior to the meeting. If 
interested in attending, please call the board office at 
573/751-2104 for information on the exact date in 


March. 
Page 8 


