


y 1s SS ~ Sots 





Lewis Evans Map of Pennsilvania (1749) 


~& 





NTON S 
WILDERNESS 


ENS OF THOUSANDS of wilderness acres within 
an easy day’s drive of tens of millions of people is 
truly remarkable. Bur that’s just what we have along 
the leading edge of the Appalachian Mountains north 
of Harrisburg. Several factors account for this wilderness area, 
most notable being the fact that after being largely exploited of its marketable re- 
sources, nobody wanted it. 

The Game Commission began purchasing much of this land in the 1940s and 
designated it State Game Land 211. Another large, connecting parcel is owned by 
the Harrisburg Water Authority and is left in virtually a pristine state. 

Rich in natural beauty, the area today holds tremendous historical interest, too. 
Years ago the land was an adversary that had to be conquered for its timber and 
mineral wealth. Lands were cleared, exploited and then abandoned — a story re- 
peated over and over. Most of today’s trails incorporate features of this history. 
They connect wagon tracks or inclined planes, while old stone foundations and 
collapsed mine entrances dot the landscape. 

Think of the first human being to see this area. How long after the retreat of the 
glaciers in what’s now northern Pennsylvania did he arrive? We know little of his 
looks, language, social customs and religious beliefs. We have found his stone tools 












By Jim Rice 


illustrations by the author 


FEBRUARY 1999 9 


In 1743 cartographer Lewis Evans and 


botantist John Bartram were guided — 


and weapons; we know he was a hunter. 
Did he hunt mastodon and caribou in the 
valley? The culture of the primitive 


by the Indian interpreter Conrad 
Weiser on‘a journey from Philadelphia 
to central New York. Evans’ map illus- 
trates a path from the Indian village 
of Shamokin, now Sunbury, through 
St. Anthony's Wilderness. Weiser trav 
eled the path on his many visits to 
Shickellamy, the Iroquois vicegerent at 
Shamokin. Shickellamy, a‘ Cayuga‘sent 
by the Iroquois (about 1742) to over- 
see the various tribes, resided there un- 
til his death in December 1748, Like- 
wise, Iroquois embassies from the Six: 
Nations, by way of Shamokin, traveled 
the path to Weiser’s home near 
present day Womelsdorf and on to 
Philadelphia. Shamokin was the Indian: 
capital of Pennsylvania until its aban- 
donment in 1756. 


people was based on wildlite. Leather and 
stone was the staple of the their society 
and for centuries thereafter. 

The Europeans’ arrival, however, 
changed that forever. The old Indian 
paths are all but forgotten. On Third 
Mountain, however, is an obscure trail, 
unmarked and difficult to follow. One sec- 
tion is exposed to the winds and the for- 
est litter is gone, the ground bare. There, 
the passage of man and animal has worn 
a shallow groove in the rock and soil. 
Standing on that centuries old trail one 
can easily drift into the past and imagine 
an Indian hunter or courier approaching. 

Today, the Appalachian Trail is the 
major trail in this area, winding its way 
along a mountain spine, descending, 
crossing a water gap, then climbing to the crest of a mountain again. The AT isa 
white man’s copy of an Indian path, but merely recreational. Although some moun- 
tains had to be crossed, Indian paths tended to be more level and direct, The paths 

flowed through the gaps akin to the water, but above and dry, taking 
advantage of the terrain. Many Indian routes have evolved from 
foot path to wagon road to modern highway. 

Among the first whites to lodge with the Indians and describe 
their customs and character in diaries were the religious mission- 
aries. These explorers possessed courage, uncompromised devo- 
tion to their work.and integrity, all qualities chat permitted them 
to move freely among the tribes and record what they saw. 

Count Nicholas van Zinzendorf, founder of the renewed 
Moravian church, made three journeys into Indian country dur- 
ing his brief visit in the colony of Pennsylvania. In 1742, on the 
third expedition and guided by Conrad Weiser, the group fol- 

lowed the route indicated later on Lewis Evans’ map of 1749. 

Like others of that time, Zinzendorf named everything he saw, 

touched or crossed over. He is credited with naming their settle- 

ment, Bethlehem, on Christmas Eve, 1741. On his journey with 

Weiser, Zinzenforf named the present-day Mahantango Creek 

“Benigna’s Creek,” in honor of his daughter. Mahanoy Creek 

was “Liemback’s Creek,” named for a fellow traveler. 

Spangenherg, a Moravian bishop, was the name given to the 

present-day Shamokin Mountain. And to honor the wife of 

Bishop Spangenber, Zinzendorf named Shamokin Creek, “Eva 

Creek.” 

And evidently, Count Zinzendort named the first ridges and 

valleys of the Appalachians as “Anton’s Wilderness,” for Anton 





GAME NEWS 











—-—_ a a ao a ———— ——_————.._ _— 9 0 0 patie _— 
et Cae et 

= 8.9.) ——— ee Se eee en ee / a 
ee 7 ———"7 . a = 

mE SS SERIE Lene _ je a - 
~—J ee Par a —= A ———_—— 

E Sage OE ER a il | [| on — eee ——-——" 

OO eee er 254 <= et — ———— —————— SS 

a = ae ey <=. te ok Qe ey a — ee ae Se 

a = ~ — = — —— i ee - 

—<— e —— 4. I re AO = —— 69 U-- 

Stl ee aE, Se gn ea 








On 


Se eS een sN AEM OU NE AS No 


gee ee 18 0 
s 























ay ; el to —$——— ge ee DE 
t —— : 
en ae) To ei a ae We - _ - 
3 nn ae ar ope PAalag n ~ 
DO) 3. Saw ee eae rete Pe 8 ae = a 
ia nee ee — 
ONS ee ——SHAR PSO TOW =<} 
ta ie 13 ees oe BS? Ceo 747 i 
sie ee SS - 0oa-— a 2 es a =" pa 4 
= ae I —_ i : 1" a a 
ee ee 
ee a ; et 
= vr Hq rien cet 5 ce. - m 
. ~~ a _ a i sc ee, { “3 . 


Seyffert, a friend and fellow missionary. Seyffert was.a member of the first Moravian 
group to arrive in the British colonies on the ship, Two Brothers, in 1735. A Moravian 
traveling this same path later wrote in his journal: 


4 


. By two o'clock we had crossed the mountain, and struck the 
yu 


Swatara: sslneres through Anton’s Wilderness to the Kittochtinny Hills 
by sun down 


Narrative of Moravian Bishop Cammerhof (1748) 


What is found on Lewis Evans’ map of 1749 and also on William Scull’s map 
of 1775 is “St. Anthony’s Wilderness,” an English derivative. Let’s give this name 
to the count, none of his other names stuck. 


“ 


bearing resemblance to the bed of amighty torrent . . . we 
see no vegetation; for no soil exists between the interstices of the rocks; 
while the rushing or “rattling” of the stream is heard many feet 


” 


below . . . locally known as “the Devil's Race Course 
Richard C. Taylor (1840) 
The valleys within Anton’s Wilderness are underlaid with soft, erodible shales 
and siltstones. Sometimes they are difficult to see because the narrow valleys 
are blanketed with boulders toppled from the adjacent ridges. The 
mountaintops consist of jagged spines of the more erosion resistant ie 
coarse-grained sandstone and conglomerate. Extreme freeze and thaw cycles : 
during the Ice Age accelerated erosion. These conditions caused natural 
quarrying along the ridge crests. Huge slabs of rock were toppled and 
slid down the mountain slopes. The finest example of this geo- 
logic process is the Devils Race Course, a boulder field ap- 
proximately 3,500 feet long and 120 feet wide herween Sharp 
and Stony mountains, west of the Rattling Run Gap, 







FEBRUARY [999 


ve 


About the year 1802, it is stated that two boat loads of the 
coal obtained from about a mile east of the point, were sent down the 
river to Harrisburg and.to Baltimore on trial, as it was a novelty, and 

was ascertained to be bituminous . 
Richard C. Taylor, Pres. of the Board of Directors Dauphin and 


Susquehanna Coal Company (1840) 


Coal, and the company searching for it, would change the valley forever. The 
Dauphin and Susquehanna Coal Company was incorporated in 1826 by an act of 
the Pennsylvania Legislature. Out-of-state financiers provided the funds and the 
company was empowered to build either a canal or railroad along Stony Creek. 

When the Dauphin and 

greg Susquehanna Coal Company be- 

gan its investigation, there was no 

‘G road beyond the schoolhouse 
f=) three miles east of Dauphin. 











ce 


We are, 
therefore, still without 
the power of communi- 


~~ 4 => 


cation between the 
Susquehanna at 

re FER ros | eee EE a RNS one end and 
tte =: \, ees AC y= axe Mount Eagle at 
- ae se Ow ane the other, 
except by very circuitous routes; so that we can reach Philadelphia, 116 
miles, in less time than we can pass by any carriage road leading from 


Port Lyon (Dauphin) to Mount Eagle (Schuylkill County) 2. 2” 


In 1840 the railroad between the Rattling Run mines and the dam in Dauphin 
was completed. A mining operation was concentrated at Rattling Run Gap, and 
more than two hundred trial shafts were dug. Two drifts, or tunnels, the Reliance 
and the Perseverance, were active. An inclined plane was constructed to transport 
the coal from the top of the mountain to the railroad below. Downstream, a reser- 
voir was built and a large saw mill was nearing completion at 

1) ie 
Hp! 


Ellendale. 
t? ‘ 


; ; "2 
fortunately led to the preservation of the umber He cE fn 4 


there. At the present time, therefore, it has the ey tTr | E YELL (iW 
reputation of being the most valuable white oak | © Pp | SPRI 
ING VILL ACE 


te 











The accidental fact of there existing no 
road down Stony Creek valley, and the otherwise 


utterly impracticable nature of the ground, has 





| 


~ 
a 





valley remaining in the country 


In 1850, the railroad was extended to Rausch Gap, connect- 
ing all the operations: Ellendale, Rattling Run, Yellow Springs,  {¥,¥ 
Cold Spring and Rausch Gap. OPENS 3 


“The Dauphin Coal Company have finished their railroad in the most 
substantial manner with H rail, of the best quality, so that it is said to be the 
equal to any 20 miles in the State. The western terminus is at the town of 


Dauphin, 8 miles above Harrisburg, where the company have a basin and large 
depot, constructed to ship, by the Susquehanna State Canal, any reasonable 
quantity of coal to market. The works were finished late in the autumn, but in 
time to send over 4000 tons to marker. . . they will commence their regular 


trade with the opening of the Susquehanna Canal, early in March 


A 


The Daily American, March, [851 


Early in 1854, the line was open to the Reading Railroad at Auburn in Schuylkill 
County. The Dauphin and Susquehanna, in conjunction with the Reading, pro- 
posed to carry freight from Harrisburg to Philadelphia 20 per cent cheaper than the 


Pennsylvania Railroad: The 
route was 20 miles longer, but 


Jan. Feb. Mar. April. May. 


the DSS claimed it would de- Pass, & Ex., $250 $1477 $1932 $2282 $2870 


liver in one-third less time.” Freight, 62 1183 1176 1800 3294 
This great difference in cost and Coal, 239 655 2176 2185 2169 
expedition is undoubtedly owing Total, $1251 $3315 $5284 $6267 $8333 
to superior management,” sup- “Dauphin and Susquehanna Rail Road - The Miner's Jour- 
posed the Democratic Union in nal publishes the following statement of earnings of this 


April 1854. road, which was opened through, on the 1st of Febru- 


ee 


ary: 


1e water from the Virtuous 
Tl ter from the Virt 





Berks and Schuylkill Journal June, 1854 


or Cold Spring was long believed to have healing qualities, but access to the spring 
was difficult. The arrival of the Dauphin and Susquehanna Coal Company, how- 


ever, changed that. 


it 


. Atan early period, even prior to the revolution, an order 


from the court of Lancaster county directed a survey to be made of a 
road leading from Lebanon, through Indian Creek valley, to the 
“Virtuous Spring,” and this road was subsequently directed to be 
completed. It was, however, not finished further than to the Second 
mountain; but measures have been taken to carry the order into 
effect, by completing the road to the Cold Spring. This will assist in 
opening a communication to that part of the estate.” 


Unlike the mining towns of Yellow 
Springs and Rausch Gap on either side, 
Cold Spring went on to be developed and 
promoted asa resort, A hotel complex was 
built, and two watercolors, dated 1851 and 
donated to the Lebanon County Histori- 
cal Society, depict the hotel and bath 
house. 

It seemed to be the best of times, but 
the Dauphin and Susquehanna Coal Com- 
pany was in financial distress. 


FEBRUARY 1999 


Dauphin and Susquehanna R.R. 


FOURTH OF JULY EXCURSIONS! 


OTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that on Inde- 

pendence Day no coal or freight trains will be 
run on this road; and instead of the regular pas- 
senger train, there will be TWO EXCURSION 
TRAINS, doubling the road from both ends. 





[3 


When the 
company 
failed to make 
payments of 
interest on its 
bonds, it was 






ANTON'S WILDERNESS 
COLD SPRINGS 


forced to sell 
its properties 
in 1859 by the 
Supreme 
Court. In its 
place, the 
Schuylkill and 
Susquehanna 
Reat liroead 
Company was organized, with all the powers and privileges previously granted to 
the defunet coal company. The new company continued operation, but the dreams 
of mineral wealth had faded. Once thought to be abundant, the marginal amount 

of coal turned mining towns to ghost towns. Cold 

Spring, however, continued as a summer retreat on 
ANINIUA iy A erouror the line of the Schuylkill and Susquehanna Rail- 
PEOPLE INTERESTED IN road into the early 190s. 


| COL RS GREAT OUT OF DOORS Today, all that remains at Cold Spring are the 


THE KABOB HIKING CLUB 


OF HARRISBURG AND VICINITY various markets by rail. 
WAS FOUNDED 





RETURN TO THES SPOT foundations of the resort structures. Shards of thick 
WHERE ON-OCT. 21.1934 glass are found scattered throughout the estate, re- 
mains of bottles used to ship the spring water to 


The old mainline Dauphin and Susquehanna 
-Gizry Railroad bed is now a Game Commission access 


RATTLING RUN road, It can be traversed with a bicycle to the vari- 
UNFERTUNATELY,, THIS ‘VENERABEE ‘PLAQUE ous points of historical interest in the Stony Creck 
valley. 


Traces of the siding at Yellow Springs can be seen today, where 
empty cars were loaded. The Yellow Springs Trail leads the visitor 
up Sharp Mountain. The trail includes the bed of an inclined A SE 

‘ 4 <- Ot hms = 
plane, where cars loaded with coal were lowered to a breaker and ARS 
the railroad for shipment. Ac the summit, the Yellow Springs 4g7Ass = 

eee , , ‘ ) ane A 4 SERS 
Trail intersects the Appalachian Trail. Along the AT east of Bots ae 


i 










. a “7 PS oe Ea ea hve 

this point are foundations where housing was provided for the — JPRS 
oe ee 4, ae SSS 
mining force. A blue-blazed trail leads north toa stone tower Fh Se Sees 

9 OOO te ae 

and foundation at a collapsed mine entrance near the crest oS See 

of Stony Mountain, The tower was a component of the mine Fags A Sasa So ES 

head frame, and a hoisting engine rested beside it. Sy a 


Rausch Gap can be divided into four areas, using 
the intersection of the creek and the railroad at the 
Rausch Creek bridge as the center. 

North and west of the bridge is the Appala- 
chian Trail and the Rausch Gap shelter. Allow 












settled Cas ie ae sO tn ee Puy) a ee 
enough time to sit and sansa ahi alta doari Wi 
= ie = ~ . = P ' 44 ; ‘ ey i ati sal nen Et ions Ree ssekae ate 
read the entries inthe s.sij/+. ite rlttha liad SHAN NR oe a ade ea 
: a. eat AORN soot UES ATTA cain VER PaO OH Ma 
AT logbook, perhaps [2% 6 U. Re ye cit NaHS ORE Ee 
. : “eh ; ' aie PSs hh it RO ; is ww . uN rs | .’ _—— ———ee 
adding a bit of insight. ly. ve AY <a niet 
= ER:Lo, Yec2bn 5B rer Lui a, Ry aR i ne \s co pa RO EEAN yhee files Seu 
The Rausch (ja PP east yen S Sane Nees Ssh eae ees aM. Mis fn bs ssn oyaht teehee seek iS ey az 
x i | l cnt ‘, b Se A S ne = ., as 
. j ez ~ ? r oh? 1 nw xa tue 
colliery and railroad ‘14 ek: PFPA cata eeabinassl teh ih 
ee ‘ ; RR Lo, ETA eft k SR 
sidings were located in === COLD SEBRING orl : 
Tanks Sod ofAce ' 





SENPAMeys yo! 


this area. ~ ‘ eos Ston i Nii! 
: Nae, ‘sabe a AN \\ \} NAAM lis = AN 
North and east, the 7 ole, NS it TRS eS 





\ ifr, SORE 
; i ' HAN HIN (ie y awe, "te, se i! ‘ ffs, he Al NIT 
dwellings of the com- Wi! tins SS te ae a0 {Efe Ao Men koamndir ane UN T 


pany supervisors over- —.—.— Se pc 0 ——— 
look the carpenter and 
engine shop near the 
mainline. An open well remains, and higher on Sharp Mountain, above the foun- 
dations, is the bed of a railroad siding. The bridge abutments for this siding remain 
at Rausch Creek. The siding continues along the south slope of Sharp Mountain to 
the remains of a breaker at Gold Mine. 

South and west was the major residential section. Foundations of row houses 
can be found. A wa- 
tercolor, dared 185] 
and on display at the 
Stoy Museum in 
Lebanon, depicts the 
company housing. A 
well tilled with debris and the 

wagon track leading to Cold 
Spring completes the area. 
South and east along the main- 
line railroad bed is 
the foundation of a turntable and roundhouse. Metal shavings, 
turned from a lathe, can be found on the ground. House founda- 
tions and a large L-shaped foundation exist in 
this quadrant. The Appalachian 


Trail continues through this area, STONY MOUNTAIN 


and near it is a well filled with 


debris. Three tombstones remain in LOOKOUT 


a cemetery on the southeast fringe of 
the community. TOWER 

Space does not permit me to relate all 
the history of Anton’s Wilderness. There is, though, a certain 
untidiness to the history of the valley. Everyone loves a mystery. 
Whether you find an arrowhead or a piece of hand-forged iron, hoth 
are relics bekoning you into the past. 

Wildlife abounds. Various food plots throughout the game lands 


Frederick W. Beers County Atlas of Lebanon, Pennsylvania (1875) 






RAUSCH CREEK BRIDGE 


present a chance to view deer and, if you’re real lucky, coyote and 
bear. Do not be afraid to leave the beaten path and explore; you 
will find many hidden treasures. One early March day | watched 


a coyote family at play. The pups wrestled with each other and IR 
became quite vocal. The mother watched the trails, knowing 


FEBRUARY [999 Th Ss 








16 


where danger might appear. | was downwind, screened by brush, 
enjoying every moment through my binoculars. 

Use your ears. In June the hooded warbler’s loud 
melodious song will help you find him. Nesting pref- 
erence is dense brushy undergrowth, and although 
difficult to observe, viewing them through your bin- 

oculars on a sunny day is worth the effort. The hooded 
warbler’s need for large tracts of wooded area may cause it 
to play an important role as an indicator species of environ- 
mental change. 
While nearing the summit of Stony Mountain, pause on the steep 
slope and listen for the throaty croak of a raven. Ravens have become more com- 
mon in recent years, more adaptable to human activity than previously thought. 
Superb fliers, ravens use this skill to harass much larger raptors in flight. 

One cold, windy overcast day in early November, | was turkey hunting when a 
large boisterous group of crows gathered on the crest of Sharp Mountain. | hurried 
over to find the object of their ire. | assumed the crows’ interest centered on a great 
horned owl. With the wind concealing my approach through the laurel, | crept up 
and found, on the ground, beneath the noisy crows, a golden eagle, its long wings 
curved, mantling something. To be so close to this splendid bird of prey was a once 
in a lifetime experience. Powerful wings lifted the bird into the air and out over 
Stony Valley, and the crows scattered. What had brought the eagle and the crows 
together on Sharp Mountain was hunger and the remains of a successful bow hunt, 
fresh entrails. Curiosity had brought me, an intruder on the scene, but a fortunate 

one. | have hunted gobblers and bucks 

Fe ee ae ee successfully on this ground, watched 

= Le = ear - black bear, bobcat, beaver and coyote. 
'y Expect the unexpected. 

The area is used hy many 
nonhunters, and a short drive from 
Philadelphia and New Jersey allows 
weekenders to hike and camp along 
the Appalachian Trail. Nonhunters should be encouraged to visit and witness the 
diversity of wildlife that exists here. Areas properly managed for hunting should be 
showcased for the nonhunting populace. Hunters, of course, should conduct them- 
selves as amicable hosts. 

One day | decided to have lunch with the General. 

It’s not what you think, let me explain. My truck was 
parked in the Cold Spring parking area and the Cold 
Spring Trail was chosen as the route for the appointed 
meeting. 

Cold Spring Trail began life as a wagon track over 
Sharp Mountain. The old road is steep and it 
switches back on the ascent, lessening the 
grade as it climbs Sharp Mountain. 

Most of the road is severely eroded and RAUSCH 
some areas are inundated after rain. A GAP 
section of the old wagon track had YILLAGE 


been coarsely paved with conglomer- 












ate and sandstone boulders. La- 
borers of another era had laid 
these stones to prevent erosion. 
More than a century later, | view 
their handiwork and the preserved 
pathway. Long ago, men used this 
road to earn a living. Today, | hike 
this road for recreation. 





Nailed to the trees are old yellow a iia LNG At lt yy oy ees 


metal trail markers, covered with 
black paint to hide the scars. We 
have evolved from blazing the =. __, 
trees with an axe, to the com- ae 
monly accepted standard of 

marking the trails with paint. Faint blue paint blazes can be seen, increasing in 
number nearer the summit. 

Cold Spring Trail ends at the Appalachian Trail on the north side of Sharp 
Mountain. A short walk west on the AT is the intersection of the Sandy Spring 
Trail. A turkey vulture circles overhead; | know he's watching me. “Not today,” | 
say firmly, “the General is waiting.” 

Proceeding north on the Sandy Spring Trail, | cross Rausch Creek on the boul- 
ders to the left and continue toward Stony Mountain. As I ascend the southern 
flank of Stony Mountain, a well defined trail departs to the left. Two signs, old and 
new, direct me to the General from the Sandy Spring Trail. The trail is not marked, 
but well used and easily followed. 

The shallow valley between Sharp and Stony mountains is a syncline, a trough 
of stratified rock. The beds of coal are deep within the trough underfoot and re- 
semble a contorted letter “U,” surfacing on the south flank of Stony Mountain. 
There on the south flank at the end of the trail is the General, beside his last work. 
The hand crank is still there, but the old Sterling engine will not turn over. Manu- 
factured by the now nonexistent General Shovel Company decades ago, the Gen- 
eral lies in state in Anton's Wilderness. 

Over the past 250 years much has taken place in Anton's Wilderness, but today 
it stands in many respects like it had for thousands of years, a place where nature 
holds sway, a place where man can only visit and behold the raw beauty of our 
natural world. [| 


The. Game Commision: pecan Bone land in 1920, and: today owns 293 tracts 
totaling nearly 1.4 million acres. Although hunting license revenues — not gen- 
eral tax dollars — are used to buy and manage state game lands, hiking, photog- 
raphy, nature study, horseback riding, bicycling and other outdoor activities are 
also permitted, provided those activities don’t interfere with wildlife or manage- 
ment activities. Overnight camping is prohibited, except for provisions Bags to 


accommodate backpackers ‘on the Appalachian Trail. 


Most years, in mid- October, the Game Commission opens the Saee Creek ac- 
cess road for a motor vehicle tour of this area. Watch Game News or local newspa- 
pers for details. A map of SGL 211 would be helpful for exploring Anton’s Wilder- 
ness. Order yours from the PGC, Dept. MS, 2001 Elmerton Ave., Harrisburg, PA 
17110-9797. Maps cost 94 cents plus 6% sales tax. 





FEBRUARY 1999 





