MacNeil’s  Notes 


Volume  I,  Number  2 


Summei;  1990 


Official  Publication  of  the 

Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


MACNEIL’S  NOTES 

Official  publication  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society,  a  non-profit 
organization  dedicated  to  bringing  together  and  increasing  the  knowledge  of  people 
interested  in  Standing  Liberty  Quarters. 


VOLUME  1,  NUMBER  2 


SUMMER,  1990 


OFFICERS 

Keith  Saunders  . 

Joseph  E  Abbin . 

Larry  Gedney . 

Lawrence  N.  Rogek . 


. President 

. Treasurer 

. Editor 

General  Counsel 


Printed  by 

TECHNA-GRAPfflCS  SERVICE,  INC. 
450  Interchange  Rd. 
Lehighton,  PA  18235 


Additional  copies  available  at  $2.50  from  the  SLQC  Society  RO.  Box  14762,  Albuquerque,  MM  87191-4762. 


Send  change  of  address  notice  to  the  SLQC  Society,  EO.  Box  14762,  Albuquerque,  NM  87191-4762. 


COlVrElNTS 


Bylaws .  3 

Treasurer’s  Report .  3 

From  the  President .  4 

Letter  to  the  Editor .  5 

Special  Offers .  5 

The  Silver  Coinage  of  1916:  An  Artistic  Reconnaissance .  6 

By  Thomas  S.  Lamarre 

The  Arailability  and  Scarcity  of  AU  Standing  Liberty  Quarters . 11 

By J.H.  CUne 

It’s  Filler  Time .  14 

The  Standing  Liberty  Quarter:  An  Objective  Analysis .  16 

BY  George  W  Vanden 

Classified  Ads . 19 


Articles  and  comments  are  the  opinions  of  their  authors  and  not  necessarily  those 
of  the  SLCQ  Society 

No  material  in  this  publication  may  be  reproduced  in  part  or  in  whole  without  prior 
written  permission. 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


3 


BYLAWS  FOR  THE  SLQCS 

1.  Promotes  the  sharing  and  writing  of  information  on  Standing  Liberty  quarters  to 
an  organization  of  individuals  who  are  interested  in  increasing  their  knowledge 
of  the  series.  For  Society  purposes,  Standing  liberty  quarters  are  defined  as  U.S. 
coins  designed  by  Hermon  A.  MacNeil  and  dated  between  1916  and  1930  (incl.); 

2.  Gives  Standing  Liberty  quarter  collectors  an  opportunity  to  contact  other  collec¬ 
tors  with  similar  numismatic  interest; 

3.  Can  promote  consistent  grading  standards  among  collectors,  dealers.  Society  mem¬ 
bers  and  non-members  alike; 

4.  Provides  members  a  means  to  sell  their  Standing  Liberty  quarters  to  other  mem¬ 
bers,  in  an  effort  to  complete  or  upgrade  their  collection; 

5.  Offers  benefits  to  all  collectors  of  Standing  Liberty  quarters,  whether  they  collect 
AG  through  MS65+  or  in  between; 

6.  Gives  its  members  an  opportunity  to  express  their  opinions  regarding  all  aspects 
of  the  Society; 

7.  Is  a  not-for-profit  organization  in  aU  aspects,  dedicated  solely  to  the  benefit  of  its 
members  and  those  who  assist  the  Society  in  advancing  its  purposes. 


TREASURER’S  REPORT 

ByJoeAbbin 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  Society’s  financial  transactions  for  the  period 
ending  4/30/90: 


INCOME 

EXPENDITURES 

1990  Dues . 

.  .  $300.00 

Mailing  Labels.  .  .  . 

.  .  $  25.00 

Donation . 

.  .  11.00 

Office  Supplies .  .  . 

.  .  .  35.76 

Fact  Sheet  Sales.  .  . 

20.00 

Postage . 

65.65 

Ad  Sales . 

.  .  135.00 

Subtotal . 

.  .  1126.41 

Subtotal . 

.  .  $466.00 

BALANCE  FORWARD  4/30/90 . 

.  .  .  $740.88 

4 


MacNeiVs  Notes 


FROM  THE  PRESIDENT 

The  SLCCS  is  alive  and  well.  The  first  issue  of  our  journal  turned  out  to  be  a 
great  success,  due  largely  to  those  of  you  who  sent  articles  and  advertisements  and 
to  Richard  Barilla  for  producing  an  attractive  publication.  Richard  and  Larry  Gedney 
our  editor  for  the  next  three  issues,  are  working  hard  to  make  MadSfeil’s  Notes 
a  worthwhile  publication. 

Will  you  take  the  time  to  write  a  knowledgeable  article  for  a  forthcoming  issue? 
Or  if  you  read  an  article  in  another  periodical  which  you  think  would  be  of  interest 
to  our  members,  send  a  copy  to  our  editor  He  will  proceed  with  getting  permission 
for  us  to  use  it,  if  he  thinks  it  is  advisable.  Remember,  also,  that  members  can  place 
classified  advertisements  in  our  journal,  free  of  charge  to  non-dealers.  Letters  to  the 
editor  are  also  welcome.  All  material  for  MacNeiVs  Notes  is  accepted  on  a  space 
available  basis  and  may  be  subject  to  editing  by  Editor  Larry  Gedney 

Our  membership  as  of  April  25,  1990  stands  at  ninety-two.  So  we  are  growing! 
Hopefully,  other  collectors  will  “see  the  light”  and  join  our  ranks.  Please  help  to 
spread  the  word!  I  have  received  a  few  comments  on  the  Bylaws  which  appeared  in 
the  first  issue  of  MacNeiVs  Notes.  After  conferring  with  Joe  Abbin,  our  other  officey 
the  final  version  appears  elsewhere  in  this  issue. 

I  have  arranged  to  have  a  formal  meeting  of  SLQCS  at  the  FUN  show  in  Orlando, 
Florida,  during  January,  1991.  We  hope  to  have  a  speaker  at  that  time.  Details  will 
be  forthcoming. 

We  will  need  to  vote  on  officers  for  1991.  If  you  are  interested  and  willing  to 
serve  as  President  (also  membership  chairman)  or  Treasurey  please  send  me  a  blurb 
about  yourself.  We  will  publish  this  information  in  the  fall  issue  of  MacNeiVs  Notes, 
so  send  it  to  me  at  the  club  address  by  August  10th.  Hopefiilly  the  new  officers  can 
be  introduced  at  our  January  1991  meeting  in  Orlando.  If  you  are  attending  the 
ANA  convention  in  Seattle  on  August  1, 1  will  look  forward  to  meeting  you. 


Keith  Saunders 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


5 


LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR 

Concerning  the  statement  made  on  page  7  of  the  spring  issue  that  “all  1916s 
were  struck  from  rusted  dies  and  suffer  from  a  severe  loss  of  head  detail,”  1  have 
never  heard  this  before  and  it  certainly  is  not  true!  The  U.S.  Mint  was  no  neophyte 
to  the  manufacture  of  coins  of  the  realm  and  took  great  pride  in  their  finished 
product,  especially  since  this  was  a  new  coin!  They  were  experimenting  with  differ¬ 
ent  surfaces  on  coins,  mostly  from  1907  through  1917,  and  the  1916  does  have  a 
slightly  matted  or  satiny  look  which  was  fully  intended  by  the  Mint.  A  close  exami¬ 
nation  of  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  patterns  also  show  use  of  this  matting  proc¬ 
ess.  Many  type  ones  have  satiny  surfaces.  Some  more  so  than  others.  Furthermore, 
there  is  no  loss  of  head  detail  in  a  1916  quarter  because  of  rusting.  If  your  readers 
will  closely  examine  a  1916  Standing  Liberty  quarter  and  compare  it  to  a  1917  one, 
they  will  see  that  the  two  coins  are  produced  from  different  dies  that  do  not  have 
the  same  detail  at  all.  The  heads  are  different,  the  bodies  are  different,  the  shields 
are  different,  etc.  When  I  say  this  I  mean  that  the  1916  and  the  1917  type  one  have 
the  same  basic  design  elements,  but  that  their  details  are  totally  different,  not  varia¬ 
tions  or  changes  made  from  the  same  master  hub.  Different  master  hubs  were  used 
for  the  two  dates  of  type  one  quarters.  In  fact  the  1916  and  1917  type  one  Standing 
Liberty  quarters  could  be  considered  two  different  one  year  only  type  coins,  but 
have  been  lumped  together  because  of  their  similar  looks.  There  is  such  a  thing 
as  a  fully  struck  1916  head,  but  it  will  not  show  the  same  detail  as  a  1917  one  be¬ 
cause  it  is  struck  from  a  die  with  a  different  design  on  it.  The  transference  of 
designs  follows  from  the  master  hub  to  the  master  dies  to  the  working  hubs  to  the 
working  dies  following  a  relief  to  incuse  to  relief  to  incuse  progression.  Because 
different  master  hubs  were  used,  two  different  coins  were  produced.  I  hope  this 
information  will  clarify  this  situation. 

Keith  N  Kelman 


SPECIAL  OFFERS 

As  an  educational  service  to  our  members,  Mr.  J.H.  CUne,  author  of  Standing  Liberty 
Quarters,  is  offering  the  revised  ( 1986)  edition  of  the  softbound  copy  of  his  book 
to  Society  members  for  $8.95  postpaid.  Order  it  directly  from  him  at  RO.  Box  68, 
Palm  Harbor,  FL  34682. 

From  the  National  Collectors  Laboratories  we  have  available  to  our  members  the 
following  publications:  Genuine  Characteristics  Reports  of  the  1916  Type  1  quarter 
and  of  the  Overdate  quarter;  Counterfeit  Analysis  Report  of  the  191 7  Type  1  quar¬ 
ter.  The  Society  is  offering  to  members  a  set  of  these  3  at  a  postpaid  price  of  $4.00 
(regularly  $5.00).  Make  checks  payable  to  SLQCS  and  mail  to  RO.  Box  14762,  Albu¬ 
querque,  NM  87191-4762. 


6 


MacNeil’s  Notes 


THE  SIITER  COINAGE  OF  1916 
An  Artistic  Reconnaissance 

By  Thomas  S.  Lamarre 

“The  inferiority  of  our  coinage  to  the  same  kind  of  work  by  almost 
every  other  advanced  nation  of  the  earth.  .  .is.  .  .  keenly  felt.  .  .  ” 

-  Mint  Director  James  E  Kimball,  1887 

Things  were  not  going  well  for  Teddy  Roosevelt  in  1916.  Jungle  fever  had  left 
him  weak  and  prematurely  aged,  and  his  bid  to  recapture  the  presidency  was  crum¬ 
bling  as  the  Democrats  touted  Woodrow  Wilson  with  the  slogan  “He  kept  us  out  of 
wai^’  There  was,  however;  some  consolation  for  the  Rough  Rider.  The  coinage  rede¬ 
sign  movement  that  he  had  set  in  motion  was  about  to  culminate  in  a  new  dime, 
quarter,  and  half  dollar. 

Roosevelt’s  collaboration  with  outside  artists  marked  a  fresh  approach  to  the  prob¬ 
lem  of  redesigning  the  nation’s  coinage.  For  more  than  a  century  the  Mint  had  re¬ 
lied  almost  exclusively  on  its  own  engravers  for  new  designs.  The  first  design  contest 
was  an  internal  affair;  pitting  Chief  Engraver  William  Barber  against  his  assistant, 
George  T  Morgan,  in  the  development  of  a  new  silver  dollar  It  began  in  the  latter 
part  of  1877  and  ended  soon  after  Mint  Director  Henry  linderman  sent  a  friend  to 
advise  Morgan  about  his  models. 

Ten  years  later;  Mint  Director  James  E  Kimball  began  formulating  plans  for  another 
competition.  “The  inferiority  of  our  coinage  to  the  same  kind  of  work  by  almost 
every  other  advanced  nation  on  the  earth,”  he  wrote,  “seems  to  be  keenly  felt  by 
many  as  unworthy  of  the  development  vdiich  the  arts  of  sculpture  and  design  have 
here  attained.” 

Kimball  admitted  that  sometimes  “too  much  is  expected  in  the  way  of  improve¬ 
ment,”  but  he  was  certain  that  new  designs  could  be  developed  “in  keeping  with 
contemporaneous  art.”  In  1891  the  Mint  invited  ten  artists  to  submit  proposals  for  a 
new  dime,  quartet;  and  half  dollar  The  participants,  however;  signed  a  round  robin 
saying,  “The  time  given  for  the  preparations  of  designs  is  too  short  and  the  compen¬ 
sation  altogether  insufficient,  while  no  assurance  is  given  as  to  who  will  make  the 
awards.” 

Outraged  Mint  officials  decided  to  stage  a  public  competition,  judged  by  Chief 
Engraver  Charles  E.  Barber,  seal  engraver  Henry  Mitchell,  and  prominent  sculptor 
Augustus  Saint-Gaudens.  Not  surprisingly,  they  found  that  “none  of  the  designs  or 
models  submitted  are  such  a  decided  improvement  upon  the  present  designs  of  the 
silver  coins  of  the  United  States  as  to  be  worthy  of  adoption  by  the  Government.” 

By  default.  Barber  was  assigned  the  task  of  preparing  the  new  designs. 

Roosevelt  assumed  the  presidency  in  1901,  and  in  characteristic  fashion  he  cut 
through  red  tape  and  egos  to  solicit  coinage  designs  from  Saint-Gaudens.  “I  want 
to  make  a  suggestion,”  he  told  the  artist  in  1905.  “It  seems  to  be  worthwhile  to  try 
for  a  really  good  coinage,  though  I  suppose  there  will  be  a  revolt  about  it!”  Roose¬ 
velt  predicted  that  Saint-Gaudens’  designs  for  $10  and  $20  gold  pieces  would  “seri¬ 
ously  increase  the  mortality  among  the  employees  of  the  Mint,”  but  he  said  they 
would  “perish  in  a  good  cause.” 

Then  came  a  rapid-fire  succession  of  coinage  designs  by  outside  artists:  Bela  lyon 
Pratt’s  quarter  eagle  and  half  eagle  in  1908,  Victor  D.  Brenner’s  Lincoln  cent  in  1909, 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


and  James  Earle  Fraser’s  Indian  Head  flve-cent  piece  in  1913.  In  December  1915 
Mint  Director  R.W  WooUey  invited  Hermon  MacNeil,  Adolph  A  Weinman,  and  Albin 
Polasek  to  submit  designs  for  the  dime,  quarter,  and  half  dollar 

The  artists  were  to  be  paid  $300  each,  with  an  additional  $2,000  per  winning 
design,  and  April  15,  1916,  was  set  as  the  deadline  for  entries.  Winners  were  to  be 
selected  by  the  Mint  Director  and  Treasury  Secretary,  who  promised  to  seek  the 
advice  of  the  Commission  of  Fine  Arts. 

Each  artist  had  impeccable  credentials.  MacNeil  was  a  graduate  of  the  Boston 
State  Normal  Art  School  and  the  Julienne  Art  School  and  Ecole  des  Beaux-Arts  in 
Paris.  C2echoslovakia-born  Polasek  had  studied  at  the  Pennsylvania  Academy  of  Fine 
Arts  and  the  American  Academy  in  Rome.  Weinman,  born  in  Germany,  attended  the 
Art  Student’s  League  in  New  York  and  studied  under  Saint-Gaudens.  Despite  their 
diverse  backgrounds,  the  three  artists  were  not  strangers.  Earlier  in  1915,  Polasek 
and  MacNeil  had  won  awards  for  sculpture  at  the  Panama-Pacific  International 
Exposition;  Weinman  served  as  a  jury  member  in  that  competition. 

It  is  believed  that  twenty-eight-year-old  Elsie  Kacel  Stevens  was  Weinman’s  model 
for  liberty  Stevens  and  her  husband  were  tenants  in  an  apartment  building  owned 
by  the  sciilptor.  MacNeil  reportedly  found  a  roof  studio  in  the  heart  of  New  York 
where  he  eould  work  on  the  coinage  designs  “high  above  the  dirt  and  noise  of  the 
street.”  Little  is  known  about  Polasek’s  entries. 

On  May  30,  1916,  a  press  dispatch  said  that  the  winning  designs  had  been  chosen 
from  “more  than  fifty”  sketch  models.  The  designs  were  approved  by  Ti-easury  Sec¬ 
retary  William  Gibbs  MacAdoo,  Mint  Director  Woolley,  and  the  Fine  Arts  Commis¬ 
sion,  which  pronounced  them  to  be  “most  satisfactory  from  an  artistic  point  of  viewf’ 

Officials  planned  to  have  the  coins  in  circulation  by  mid-summer,  a  deadline  that 
proved  impractical.  “The  United  States  Mint  here  is  having  trouble  in  making  satis¬ 
factory  dies  for  the  new  dimes,  quarters,  and  half  dollars  from  the  designs  furnished 
by  the  Tteasury  Department,”  a  Philadelphia  press  dispateh  dated  September  15, 
1916,  said,  “and  there  is  delay  in  getting  the  new  currency  in  circulation.  The 
treasury  official  hoped  to  have  the  new  silver  money  in  circulation  July  1. 

“According  to  Dr.  Albert  A.  Norris,  chief  clerk  of  the  Philadelphia  mint,  the  die- 
makers  usually  have  trouble  when  designs  are  made  by  artists  who  are  not  familiar 
with  the  mechanical  problems.  At  present  the  Mint  is  working  nights  manufacturing 
silver  coin  of  the  old  design  to  keep  up  with  the  demand.” 

Referring  to  the  half  dollai;  MEHL’S  NUMISMATIC  MONTHEY  said,  “smoothing  out 
the  wrinkles  in  Miss  Liberty’s  dress  and  keeping  the  die-makers  from  cutting  off  the 
tips  of  her  fingers  took  seven  months  of  the  hardest  kind  of  work ...”  Preparation 
of  dies  for  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  required  even  more  time. 

The  Winged  Liberty  Head  dime  was  the  first  to  appeal;  entering  circulation  in  the 
latter  part  of  October  19 16.  The  Walking  Liberty  half  dollar  was  placed  in  circula¬ 
tion  the  first  week  of  January  1917,  and  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  followed  later 
in  the  month. 

“The  design  of  the  dime,  owing  to  the  smallness  of  the  coin,  has  been  held  quite 
simple,”  Mint  Director  EJ.H.  von  Engelken  said.  “The  obverse  shows  a  head  of 
Liberty  with  winged  cap.  The  head  is  firm  and  simple  in  form;  the  profile  forceful. 
The  reverse  shows  a  design  of  the  bundle  of  rods,  with  battle-ax,  known  as  “Fasces,” 
and  symbolical  of  unity,  wherein  lies  the  Nation’s  strength.  Surrounding  the  fasces 
is  a  fuU-foliaged  branch  of  olive,  symbolical  of  peace.” 

He  added:  “The  design  of  the  half  dollar  bears  a  full-length  figure  of  Liberty, 
the  folds  of  the  Stars  and  Stripes  flying  to  the  breeze  as  a  background,  progressing 
in  fioll  stride  toward  the  dawn  of  a  new  day,  carrying  branches  of  laurel  and  oak. 


MacNeil’s  Notes 


symbolical  of  civil  and  military  glory  The  hand  of  the  figure  is  outstretched  in 
bestow'al  of  the  spirit  of  Liberty 

“The  reverse  of  the  half  dollar  shows  an  eagle  perched  high  upon  a  mountain 
crag,  his  wings  unfolded,  fearless  in  spirit  an  conscious  of  his  power  Springing 
from  a  rift  in  the  rock  is  a  sapling  of  mountain  pine,  symbolical  of  America.” 

The  quarter  was  “intended  to  typify  in  a  measure  the  avokening  interest  of  the 
country  to  its  own  protection,”  von  Engelken  said.  “In  the  new  design  Liberty  is 
shown  a  full-length  figure,  front  view,  with  head  turned  toward  the  left,  stepping 
forward  to  the  gateway  of  the  country.  .  .  The  left  arm  of  the  figure  of  Liberty  is 
upraised,  bearing  the  shield  in  the  attitude  of  protection,  from  which  the  covering 
is  being  drawn.  The  right  hand  bears  the  olive  branch  of  peace.” 

Few  coins  have  captured  the  spirit  of  their  time  as  effectively  as  the  dime, 
quarter,  and  half  dollar  of  1916.  Many  Americans  felt  that  the  United  States,  self- 
insulated,  could  avoid  involvement  in  the  affairs  of  the  world.  As  late  as  September, 
1915,  President  Woodrow  Wilson  had  seen  no  need  “to  stir  the  nation  up  in  favor 
of  national  defense.” 

In  contrast,  Teddy  Roosevelt  was  a  strident  advocate  of  preparedness.  Historian 
John  Morton  Blum  says  that  “a  realization  of  the  oneness  of  the  world,  including 
the  United  States,  impelled  him  to  insist  that  the  nation  recognized  its  international 
obligations  and  keep  in  readiness  sufficient  mobilized  resources  to  honor  them.” 

Peace  and  preparedness  preoccupied  the  American  consciousness  when  the  re¬ 
designed  coins  appeared.  As  soon  as  all  three  denominations  were  available,  exam¬ 
ples  were  displayed  at  the  American  Numismatic  Society  in  New  York  through  the 
courtesy  of  'D'easury  ofiBcials. 

THE  NUMISMATIST  said  that  the  designs  formed  “the  most  attractive  set  of  silver 
coins  ever  issued  by  this  or  any  other  government.”  The  Winged  Liberty  Head  dime 
in  particular  was  viddely  praised.  “The  designer  of  the  new  dime  has  given  us  a 
youthful,  even  girlish  head,”  THE  NUMISMATIST  said,  “But  the  innovation  on  the 
obverse  consists  in  adding  wings  to  the  head.  This  is  not,  of  course,  a  new  type 
for  a  coin;  it  is  only  new  for  the  United  States.  The  winged  head  was  used  almost 
exclusively  on  one  side  of  the  family  or  consular  coins  of  the  Roman  Republic  be¬ 
fore  the  Christian  era. 

“While  the  obverse  carries  us  back  to  that  time,  the  reverse  reminds  us  even  more 
forcibly  of  the  coins  of  France  and  of  the  Napoleonic  era  of  little  more  than  a 
hundred  years  ago.  The  fasces  was  a  favorite  emblem  with  the  die-cutters  of  that 
period,  particularly  with  those  who  furnished  the  coins  for  some  of  the  republics 
which  sprang  up  almost  overnight  in  Italy  when  Bonaparte  waved  the  wand.  This 
device  is  equally  new  for  the  United  States.  The  designer  has  taken  the  laurel  and 
oak  wreath  which  has  enclosed  words  ONE  DIME  on  the  coin  for  lo!  these  many 
years  and  gracefully  draped  it  about  the  ancient  emblem  of  authority,  producing  a 
very  pleasing  effect.” 

Fort  Worth,  Texas  coin  dealer  B.  Max  Mehl  described  the  Winged  Liberty  Head 
design  a  “quite  an  improvement  on  the  old  issue  and  equal  in  artistic  beauty  to 
any  previous  issue  of  dimes.” 

As  often  happened  with  new  dimes,  rumors  circulated  that  gold  had  been  inad¬ 
vertently  mixed  with  the  silvei;  and  that  the  dimes  would  be  recalled.  However,  Mehl 
said,  “According  to  the  information  we  have,  there  will  be  ample  new  dimes  issued 
to  be  passed  around  among  everyone  who  has  an  old  dime  to  exchange  for  a  new 
one.”  Mehl  had  “a  few  hundred  of  the  dimes  on  hand”  and  offered  them  to  readers 
of  his  NUMISMATIC  MONTHET  at  face  value,  plus  postage  and  registration. 

Numismatist  David  Proskey  thought  that  Miss  Liberty  resembled  Mercury  “The 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Q^rter  Collectors  Society 


9 


new  dime  is  far  more  beautiftil  than  any  since  the  1807  issue,”  he  said,  “but  not 
nearly  so  beautiful  in  execution  nor  so  appropriate  in  design  as  any  of  the  issues 
from  1796  to  1807.  The  profile  of  liberty  is  strongly  masculine  as  to  chin.  The 
Phrygian  cap,  typical  of  Liberty  is  adorned  with  a  wing  similar  to  that  we  are  accus¬ 
tomed  to  see  on  the  cap  of  Mercury  It  may  be  suggested  therefrom  our  liberty  is 
of  fleeting  character,  or  mayhap  depending  upon  the  development  of  our  flying 
warships,  both  aerial  and  naval ...” 

The  ten-cent  piece  was  christened  with  many  pet  names.  Some  people  called  it 
the  “golf  dime”  because  the  fasces  resembled  a  golf  bag.  Other  referred  to  it  as  the 
“Wilson  dime,”  a  misinterpretation  of  the  small  “W”  on  the  obverse.  There  was  also 
speculation  that  the  "W”  signified  Wilson’s  policy  of  “watchful  waiting”  with  regard 
to  the  war. 

Weinman’s  Walking  Liberty  half  dollar,  highly  regarded  today,  evoked  mixed  reac¬ 
tions  when  it  made  its  debut.  “At  last  we  have  on  our  coins  the  great  American 
eagle  in  a  natural,  lifelike  form,”  THE  NUMISMATIST  said.  “As  represented  on  the 
half  dollar  he  is,  as  the  small  boy  would  say,  “some  bird,”  and  his  size  and  propor¬ 
tions  are  in  keeping  with  the  greatness  and  power  of  the  counti^’ 

Howevei;  ornithologist  Frank  M.  Chapman  chided,  “The  artist  has  made  this  bird 
a  terrestrial  fowl,  striding  or  marching  on  the  ground  like  a  turkey-cock,  and  with 
as  much  dignity  as  one.”  Another  critic  said,  “The  eagle  looks  as  though  it  were 
wearing  overalls  and  marching  through  hot  taf’  Still  another  said,  “Liberty  in  sandals 
taking  giant  strides  across  its  face  might  burn  her  toes  if  she  should  step  one  milli¬ 
meter  nearer  the  rising  sun.” 

Although  THE  NUMISMATIST  called  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  “strikingly  beau¬ 
tiful,”  The  NEW  YORK  TIMES  saw  it  as  “some  too  darkly  veiled  allegory  of  the 
Woman’s  Party  and  the  suffrage  movement.”  Philadelphia  coin  dealer  Henry  Chap¬ 
man  offered  1916  Standing  Liberty  quarters  for  a  dollar  apiece. 

On  January  26,  1917,  a  press  dispatch  said;  “Reports  reached  the  Treasury  Depart¬ 
ment  today  from  numerous  sources  that  sharpers  have  been  selling  at  a  premium 
the  newly  designed  quarters  and  half  dollars  coined  in  1916,  representing  that  the 
new  coins  are  rare.  To  correct  any  impressions  that  the  coins  are  rare,  officials 
today  authorized  the  statement  that  2,330,000  halves  and  62,000  quarters  of  the 
new  design  were  struck  off  in  1916  (TTie  actual  mintage  of  quarters  was  52,000 
pieces.) 

Contrary"  to  numismatic  legend,  there  was  no  public  outcry  against  Liberty’s  ex¬ 
posed  breast.  Rather,  the  design  was  modified  upon  the  insistence  of  Hermon 
MacNeil  and  to  improve  the  flow  of  metal  during  striking.  In  January  1917  MacNeil 
told  a  friend  that  the  Mint  had  “garbled”  his  design  and  that  he  was  “making  a 
stand  for  improvements.”  One  month  later;  Treasury  officials  announced  they  were 
considering  changes  to  the  quarter  H.R.  3548,  enacted  July  9,  1917,  authorized  the 
modifications,  and  by  November  the  revised  T)pe  2  design  was  in  production. 

“The  most  noticeable  difference  is  on  the  reverse,”  Farran  Zerbe  said.  “The  eagle 
is  higher  and  there  is  a  new  arrangement  of  the  stars,  three  stars  being  placed 
below  the  eagle.  On  the  obverse  the  features  of  the  head  of  Liberty  are  stronger 
The  sprig  in  her  hand  does  not  engage  the  “L.”  There  are  fewer  dots  in  the  shield, 
and  the  undraped  chaste  bust  of  the  old  has  been  given  what  looks  like  a  corsage 
of  mail.” 

Collectors  did  not  learn  of  the  existence  of  pattern  dimes,  quarters,  and  half 
dollars  of  1916  until  the  1930’s.  Several  pattern  half  dollars  were  retrieved  from 
circulation  in  the  Philadelphia  area.  As  recently  as  1962,  Guy  Jenkins  of  Midlothian, 
Illinois,  found  a  well-worn  1916  pattern  dime  in  circulation.  Six  or  more  different 


10 


MacNeil’s  Notes 


dime  patterns,  three  types  of  quarters,  and  seven  types  of  half  dollars  are  known, 
most  of  them  differing  only  slightly  from  the  designs  that  were  put  into  production. 

“History  is  being  made  very  rapidly  these  days,”  B.  Max  Mehl  said  shortly  after  the 
1916  silver  pieces  were  introduced.  “Deeds— great  deeds  that  will  be  looked  back 
upon  for  centuries  to  come— are  being  performed,  and  we  can  hardly  keep  track  of 
the  rapid  political  and  national  changes  as  they  transpire.  The  map  of  the  world 
is  changing  before  our  eyes  and  none  can  say  where  the  changes  will  end.  Numis¬ 
matics  will  be  affected,  and  many  changes  will  take  place  in  the  coinage  of  the 
different  nations  taking  part  in  the  present  waif’ 

Never  again  would  coinage  designs  be  the  exclusive  province  of  Mmt  employees. 
A  competition  was  staged  for  the  1932  Washington  quartet;  although  Tlreasury  Sec¬ 
retary  Andrew  W  Mellon  disregarded  the  advice  of  the  Fine  Arts  Commission  in 
selecting  the  design. 

In  1938,  Felix  O.  Schlag  won  11,000  for  his  Jefferson  five-cent-piece  design,  one 
of  390  entries  submitted  for  judging.  The  competition  for  Bicentennial  coins  was 
open  to  the  public,  but  subsequent  contests  have  been  limited  to  small  groups  of 
invited  artists. 

The  1989  Bicentennial  of  Congress  half  dollar,  dollar  and  $5  gold  piece  are  the 
most  recent  coins  selected  via  a  design  competition,  continuing  a  tradition  estab¬ 
lished  by  the  silver  coinage  of  1916. 


Source:  LEGACY  Reprinted  by  permission 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Qtmrter  Collectors  Society 


11 


THE  AVAIIABIUnY  AND  SCARCITY  OF  AU 
SIANDEVG  UBERTY  QUARTERS 

By  J.H.  Cline 

At  the  outset,  let  we  state  that,  in  the  discussion  that  follows,  I  am  not  quite  in 
agreement  with  the  grading  services’  criteria  for  judging  full  heads.  While  the  ser¬ 
vices  maintain  that  the  full  head  can  stop  at  the  hairline  or  curl,  and  does  not 
necessarily  have  to  continue  all  the  way  down,  that  is  not  how  I  rate  full  heads.  I 
also  consider  facial  features  in  my  classification  criteria. 

When  I  think  of  scarce  AU  Standing  Liberty  Quarters,  the  1927-S  in  AU58  comes 
immediately  to  mind.  1  have  seen  MS62’s  and  MS63’s  that  look  AU,  and  supposed 
AU’s  that  actually  graded  MS62.  The  1927-S  is  actually  less  available  in  AU  than 
the  1918/7-S  overdate,  although  the  price  certainly  does  not  reflect  this.  Full  head 
1927-S’s  are  virtually  nonexistent  in  AU.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  believe  that  there  has 
only  been  one  certified  by  each  of  the  services  with  any  mention  of  the  head  at  all. 
(PCGS  stipulates  that  a  hill  head  is  necessary  for  a  grade  of  MS66,  and  NGC  speci¬ 
fies  one  for  MS65.) 

Second  in  scarcity  is  the  overdate.  Everyone  believes  that  full  heads  are  seldom 
found  in  1918/7-S  AU’s.  Actually,  1  have  seen  several,  although  1  stated  in  my  book 
that  I  had  seen  only  one  or  two.  Since  that  statement  went  into  print,  I  have  person¬ 
ally  handled  about  three,  one  at  the  AN.A  in  Cincinnati.  I  had  an  opportunity  to 
buy  that  coin,  and  it  was  recently  advertised  in  COIN  WORLD  for  $19,500. 

Next  in  scarcity  is  the  sleeper  1920-S,  which  is  so  elusive  with  a  full  head  as  to  be 
almost  unobtainable  in  any  grade.  1  believe  that  both  grading  services  have  slabbed 
a  total  of  less  than  ten  1920-S’s  all  told,  so  that  makes  an  AU  full  head  a  virtual 
impossibility  I  don’t  recall  ever  having  handled  a  1920-S  full  head.  If  I  have,  it  must 
have  been  a  piece  that  did  not  excite  my  memory 

The  1926-S  has  to  be  one  of  the  top  ten  coins  in  AU58  full  head  scarcity  It  is 
nearly  impossible  to  find.  Although  I  have  seen  a  few,  it  has  not  been  in  recent 
years.  They  are  few  and  far  between,  and  very  tough  to  find.  Personally,  I  think 
that  I  would  rather  own  an  AU  1926-S  with  a  full  head  than  an  MS62  or  MS63 
without. 

I  suppose  that  the  I926-D  would  have  to  come  in  high  on  the  list  also.  I  can  only 
recall  seeing  two  AU  1926-D’s  with  full  heads.  Many  people  compare  them  with  the 
1924-D,  but  they  should  not,  because  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  full  head  1926-D’s 
are  tougher  than  full  head  1924-D’s  in  all  grades. 

Also,  the  192O-D  would  have  to  be  considered  among  the  “top  ten”  in  terms  of 
AU  full  head  scarcity  Admittedly,  they  are  more  common  than  some  others,  if  an  AU 
full  head  can  be  called  “common.”  I  have  a  buyer  who  buys  virtually  every  full  head 
AU  item  that  I  find  (except  1917  T^e  I’s).  I  just  ship  them  to  him  and  bill  him. 

That  is  why  you  rarely  see  me  advertise  them. 

It  is  surprising  that  the  1929-D  is  also  scarce  in  AU  full  head.  In  AU58,  it  would 
rank  right  up  there  among  the  top  ten  or  twelve,  along  with  the  1927-D  and  very 
close  to  the  1924-D. 

There  are  two  strange  quirks  about  the  whole  series.  One  is  that,  contrary  to  my 
previous  opinion  and  that  of  a  couple  of  other  writers,  1923-S’s  are  readily  available 
in  AU58  full  head.  The  1921,  though,  is  much  more  elusive  than  was  originally 
thought.  There  are  two  types  of  1921  (as  I  point  out  in  my  book)  and  Type  2  is  the 


12 


MacNeil’s  Notes 


harder  to  find.  Although  they  come  with  phenomenal  strikes  and  heads,  most  were 
circulated.  Quite  a  few  exist,  but  not  nearly  as  many  as  the  1923-S. 

The  1919-S  falls  into  this  category  It  was  originally  thought  by  myself  and  other 
authors  that  the  lull  head  1919-D  is  more  scarce  than  the  1919-S.  However,  findings 
over  the  past  three  years  are  causing  me  to  reverse  that  opinion.  The  1919-D  in  full 
head  is  turning  out  to  be  plentiful  in  comparison  vdth  the  1919-S.  I  have  handled 
maybe  six  to  ten  full  head  1919-D’s  in  the  past  six  months  to  a  year.  Some  areas  of 
the  date  are  often  weak,  but  the  head  should  be  nice. 

I  guess  something  should  be  said  about  full  head  1930-S’s.  Even  though  Don  Taxi’s 
comments  in  his  earlier  book  label  them  to  be  so  scarce  as  to  be  “non-existent,”  I 
find  them  to  be  pretty  common,  as  far  as  full  heads  are  concerned.  With  the  1930-S 
on  the  plentiful  list  is  also  the  1930  plain,  which  is  actually  a  lot  more  common 
than  the  1930-S  full  head. 

I  beUeve  that  the  1918-D  and  1918-S  are  in  the  top  ten  or  twelve  Standing  Liberty 
Quarters  in  AU  full  head  scarcity  as  well.  The  1918-S  is  a  very  elusive  coin,  and  the 
1918-D  even  more  so  (almost,  but  not  quite,  as  scarce  as  the  1920-D).  Certainly, 
both  the  1918-D  and  the  1918-S  would  rank  among  the  fifteen  most  scarce  in  ftill 
head  AU58,  with  the  1928-D  close  behind. 

The  1928-S  and  1929-S  rank  in  about  the  same  category  of  availability  as  the 
1930-S.  While  not  exactly  abundant,  they  are  certainly  obtainable. 

I  can  only  recall  having  seen  a  few  1924-S  AU55  or  AU58  full  head  specimens, 
but  I  am  sure  that  there  are  some  around.  I  have  only  bought  and  sold  one  or  two 
in  my  whole  35  years  in  the  coin  industry  Most  that  I  have  seen,  being  a  product  of 
the  roaring  twenties,  were  circulated  to  the  point  that  any  full  heads  that  they  might 
have  had  originally  have  been  obliterated.  The  1924-D  is  much  more  available  than 
the  1924-S,  and  both  would  probably  command  about  $700  to  $1000  in  AU.  How¬ 
ever,  you  are  going  to  have  to  do  a  lot  of  looking  around  to  find  either  with  a  full 
head. 

Concerning  the  plain  mints,  the  toughest  to  find  is  the  1923  full  head  AU58, 
although  it  does  come  very  lustruous  in  AU.  A  1928  is  also  very  elusive  in  full  head, 
and  is  a  very  close  second  to  the  1923.  Third  in  scarcity  among  the  plan  mint  full 
head  AU58’s  is  probably  the  1918. 

The  plain  1925  is  not  a  common  coin  in  AU  fiill  head,  and  it  ranks  among  the  ten 
most  scarce  of  the  plain  mints.  Full  heads  are  not  plentiful  in  any  grade,  and  1925 
just  seems  to  have  been  a  weak  year  The  plain  mints  of  1926,  1927,  and  1928  also 
fall  into  the  same  category  of  full  head  AU58  scarcity,  although  fairly  lustrous  speci¬ 
mens  are  available.  However,  don’t  expect  these  to  have  any  design  in  the  shield.  It 
seems  that  the  shield  is  lacking  when  the  head  is  bold. 

Turning  now  to  the  other,  or  “common”  end  of  the  list  of  full  head  AU  Standing 
Liberty  Quarters,  the  1917  is  first  in  line,  of  course.  Full  head  T^e  Ts  can  even  be 
found  in  XE  Probably  the  next  most  common  is  the  plain  1930.  like  the  1917  T^e  1, 
the  1930  is  abundant  in  full  head  AU58,  and  perhaps  in  grades  as  low  as  XE  Both 
the  1919  and  1920  are  readily  available  in  full  head  AU,  and  they  are  usually  lustrous 
as  well.  There  are  many  full  head  AU  1924’s  available,  but  don’t  expect  any  luster. 
The  1924  coinage  is  a  rather  sad  lot,  subdued  in  appearance  like  the  1916. 

You  can  almost  say  that  the  1917-D  Type  1  and  1917-D  T^e  1  fit  in  the  “very 
available”  category  in  full  head  AU.  They  can  be  found  in  grades  as  low  as  XE 
Although  the  1917-S  is  much  scarcer  than  the  1917-D  in  full  head,  it  seems  that  the 
1917-S  lacks  a  Uttle  on  the  right  of  the  forehead,  where  the  line  separates  Uberty’s 
hair  and  her  face,  cheek,  jawbone,  and  neck.  A  lot  of  people  make  the  common  mis¬ 
take  of  comparing  full  heads  of  the  plain  1917  Type  1  with  the  D  and  S  issues  of 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


13 


that  year.  This  should  not  be.  The  plain  1917  Type  1  is  virtually  in  a  class  by  itself. 
While  the  D  and  S  are  usually  nice,  you  will  find  a  lot  less  than  on  the  plain  mint 
coin. 

The  Type  2  1917-D  and  1917-S  are  both  very  very  tough  in  full  head  AU.  I  have 
retailed  the  1917-D  T^e  2  in  full  head  AU  for  as  much  as  $750,  and  they  are  worth 
every  dime.  The  1917-S  Type  2  seems  to  be  a  little  more  plentiful,  but  they  are  both 
very  scarce,  and  I  think  that  you  should  expect  to  pay  $400  to  $800,  and  maybe  as 
much  as  $1000  for  a  really  super  fifil  head  AU  for  either  of  these. 

Finally,  it  is  time  to  talk  about  the  1916.  Full  head  AU’s  are  available,  but  they 
will  be  mushy  During  a  recent  30  to  45-day  period,  1  bought  and  sold  two.  They 
were  gorgeous  pieces,  but  mushy  in  design.  The  1916  is  in  a  class  by  itself,  not 
comparable  to  the  1917,  so  keep  that  in  mind  as  you  scan  the  19l6’s. 

I  guess  you  could  say  that  this  series  (AU  pieces  that  are  full  head)  are  virtually 
overlooked  by  the  majority  of  the  collecting  world.  Most  of  the  people  who  are 
willing  to  buy  an  AU  full  head  are  often  inclined  to  add  a  few  hundred  or  a  few 
thousand  to  get  an  uncirculated  full  head.  I  recently  saw  a  slabbed  1926  full  head 
MS60  that  could  be  had  for  $1100.  But  there  are  others  in  the  series  which  are  nearly 
impossible.  Most  people  do  not  appreciate  these,  so  they  are  not  willing  to  pay  for 
them.  Those  of  you  who  are  astute  enough  to  shell  out  this  kind  of  money  will  be 
certain  to  reap  the  benefits  in  years  to  come.  When  the  rest  of  the  numismatic 
world  is  willing  to  accept  them  for  the  true  rarities  that  they  are,  things  will  start 
to  look  up.  You  enthusiasts,  hang  in  there.  In  all  of  your  looking,  even  when  you  are 
about  to  give  up,  don’t!  It  is  rewarding  and  a  big  challenge  to  start  and  then  com¬ 
plete  a  set  of  AU  full  head  Standing  Liberty  Quarters.  Lots  of  luck,  guys  and  gals. 


14 


MacNeil’s  Notes 


rrs  FILLER  TIME 


There  was  to  have  been  a  second  part  to  Mark  Nestmann’s  series  dealing  with  the 
finest-known  specimens  of  low-population  Standing  Liberty  Quarters  in  this  issue. 
Howevei;  Mark  received  an  urgent  -writing  consignment  that  demanded  his  attention, 
and  his  series  -will  be  continued  in  the  fall  issue.  At  times  like  this,  editors  have 
been  known  to  get  into  the  act  -with  filler  material.  Thus  the  title  for  this  piece, 
and  the  following  little  story 

Some  of  you  may  have  been  following  the  dialogue  between  Alan  Herbert  and  his 
readers  in  NUMISMATIC  NEWS  regarding  the  possible  number  of  combinations  in 
which  eight-digit  “radar”  notes  (those  whose  serial  numbers  read  the  same  back¬ 
wards  as  forwards)  can  be  formed.  One  of  the  more  recent  replies  in  a  letter  from 
David  Mauro  of  Tolland,  Connecticut,  pointed  out  that  the  number  of  possibilities 
numbered  10,000,  or  10  to  the  fourth.  This  discussion  brought  to  mind  a  story  about 
the  famous  mathematician  Leonhard  Euler 

While  a  Swiss  schoolboy  in  Basel  during  the  early  1700’s,  Euler’s  class  was  given 
the  assignment  of  adding  up  all  the  numbers  from  1  to  100.  The  first  student  to 
finish  was  to  raise  his  hand. 

One  can  imagine  the  schoolmaster  settling  back  for  what  he  must  have  thought 
would  turn  into  a  lengthy  break.  As  all  the  other  students  began  scribbling  madly 
on  their  slates,  young  Euler  sat  quietly  at  his  desk,  looked  thoughful  for  a  few 
moments,  then  slowly  raised  his  hand.  Responding  to  what  he  thought  must  be  a 
question,  the  schoolmaster  asked  what  the  young  man  wanted.  Euler  replied,  “The 
answer,  Sir.  It’s  five  thousand  and  fifty’ 

It’s  tempting  to  speculate  on  what  must  have  been  going  through  the  mind  of  the 
flabbergasted  teacher  at  this  point.  He  couldn’t  imagine  that  Euler  might  have  fore¬ 
seen  the  problem  and  worked  it  out  beforehand,  nor  could  he  conceive  of  him  doing 
the  sum  in  his  mind  in  just  seconds. 

But  that’s  exactly  what  Euler  did.  Except  instead  of  using  grunt  work,  he  used 
logic.  As  he  explained  to  the  class,  what  he  had  done  was  to  visualize  the  sum  of 
all  the  numbers  from  1  to  100  as  the  equivalent  of  50  matching  sets  of  101  each. 
That  is,  the  answer  was  the  sum  of  the  sets  1+100,  2+99,  3+98 .  . .  49+52,  50+51. 
Fifty  sets,  101  per  set,  50  times  101=5,050.  Piece  of  cake! 


Larry  Gedney 


16 


MacNeil’s  Notes 


THE  STANDING  OBERTY  QUARTER:  PART  II 
AN  OBJECTIVE  ANAIYSIS 

By  George  W.  Vanden 

The  present  paper  addresses  the  inherent  or  fixed  characteristics  of  the  Standing 
Liberty  quarter.  Objective  qualities  of  this  coin  may  be  divided  into  two  categories: 
standards  including  composition,  weight  and  dimensions;  constants  encompassing 
dates,  mint  marks,  rarieties  and  weaknesses. 

STANDARDS 


Composition: 

An  assay  of  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  proves  identical  to  that  of  the  previous 
series,  the  Barber  or  Liberty  Head  type.  The  coin  contains  90.0%  silver  and  10.0% 
copper  (Yeoman,  1988). 

Weight: 

By  law  each  specimen  is  to  weigh  6.25  grams.  Utilizing  90%  silver  content,  a  25- 
cent  piece  possesses  5.625  grams  of  the  precious  metal;  with  10%  copper,  the  aver¬ 
age  Standing  Liberty  quarter  contains  0.625  grams  of  the  harder  element. 

Dimensions: 

In  order  to  distinguish  the  coin  from  other  denominations,  diameter  is  24.3  mm. 
Since  the  obverse  and  reverse  do  not  consist  of  flat  surfaces,  but  are  in  relief, 
thickness  depends  on  point  of  measurement  across  coin.  Highpoints  on  the  Stand¬ 
ing  Liberty  quarter  are  considered  again  in  the  section  on  Varieties. 


CONSTANTS 


Dates: 

Quarter  dollars  have  been  produced  since  1796  with  seven  major  types.  The 
Standing  Liberty  quarter  represents  the  third  shortest  series  in  the  denomination 
and  the  shortest-lived  25-cent  piece  of  those  lasting  ten  years  or  more  (Yeoman, 
1988).  A  complete  set  contains  38  different  coins.  This  type  was  minted  for  15 
years  between  1916  and  1930,  inclusive.  However,  no  quarter  was  issued  in  1922. 
(The  reader  may  recall  that  in  1922  just  the  Lincoln  cent  was  produced  only  at  the 
Denver  Mint.  Due  to  die  wear  and/or  breakage  in  the  press,  the  “D”  became  illegi¬ 
ble  under  the  date  and  this  provided  numismatists  with  the  scarce  and  long-sought- 
after  1922-Plain  Lincoln  penny)  (Tayloy  1982). 

One  overdate,  the  1918/7-D  remains  the  second  rarest  of  such  coins  behind  the 
1918/7-D  Buffalo/Indian  Head  nickel.  This  date  is  the  most  difficult  member  of  the 
series  to  obtain,  especially  in  higher  grades  (Bowers,  1986).  The  Standing  Liberty 
quarter  example  is  the  only  overdate  of  any  denomination  produced  at  the  San 
Francisco  Mint  (Zaner,  1990). 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


Mint  Marks: 

Standing  Liberty  quarters  were  minted  at  Philadelphia,  Denver  (D)  and  San  Fran¬ 
cisco  (S)  as  mentioned  above.  Only  the  Philadelphia  facility  produced  quarters  for 
1916,  1921  and  1925,  and  no  “D”  quarters  were  issued  in  1923  or  1930. 

Varieties: 

Due  to  public  outcry  regarding  Miss  Liberty’s  exposed  breast,  in  1917  a  piece  of 
body  armor  was  added  to  cover  the  chest  area.  One  popular  numismatic  writer  calls 
the  solution  “ .  .  .  a  classic  case  of  overcompensation.  .  .  ”  (Bowers,  1986).  At  the 
time  women  were  honored,  respected  and  revered.  Your  author  finds  the  fact  hard 
to  believe  that  in  1916  Miss  Liberty  was  depicted  on  national  coinage  bare  from  the 
waist  up.  Lavmakers  in  Washington  must  have  been  consumed  by  the  ongoing  war 
efibrt.  A  prevailing  relaxed  attitude  tov^rd  exposure,  nudity  ad  explicit  sex  would 
produce  little  public  resentment  now.  I  am  afraid  that  those  early  days,  when 
“female”  and  “modesty”  were  synonymous  terms  are  lost  forever.  On  the  reverse 
the  eagle  was  raised  slightly  to  accommodate  the  addition  of  three  stars  below. 

This  action  gave  rise  to  Variety  I  without  armor  and  Variety  II  with  armor. 

Originally  the  date  was  placed  on  the  step  below  Miss  Liberty’s  feet  and  easily 
wore  off  as  the  figures  remained  unprotected  by  higher  features  of  the  obverse.  In 
1925  the  date  was  relocated  to  a  depression  made  in  the  step.  This  modification, 
although  small  in  scope,  greatly  increased  the  date’s  longevity  and  initiated  Variety 
III. 


Weaknesses: 

Both  sides  of  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  contain  many  fine  details.  In  order  for 
these  points  to  appear  on  business  strikes,  the  dies  must  exhibit  little  or  no  wear, 
be  properly  spaced,  and  the  machine  operating  with  the  correct  amount  of  pressure. 
More  often  than  not,  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter  was  produced  with  variations  in 
these  quantities  and  the  resultant  is  somewhat  weak,  particularly  in  the  head  area. 
Since  the  head  represents  a  high  point  on  the  coin,  it  would  be  low  on  the  die  and 
therefore  very  sensitive  to  weai;  spacing  and  pressure.  The  condition  is  termed 
“Full  Head”  when  the  entire  pattern  is  apparent,  and  “Flat  Head”  if  the  design  is 
missing.  Note  that  intermediate  graduations,  usually  50%,  75%,  90%  and  Virtually 
Full  Head  are  used  to  describe  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter.  Data  for  estimated 
percentages  of  “Full  Heads”  on  a  year-by-year  basis  are  given  by  Cline  (1976,  1986). 

Part  III  of  this  continuing  series  will  concern  a  date,  mint  mark  and  quality  study 
of  the  Standing  Liberty  quarter. 


Bibliography 

Bowers,  Q.  David,  United  States  Dimes,  Quarters  and  Half  Dollars:  An  Action  Guide  for  the  Collector 
and  Investor,  Bowers  and  Merena  Galleries,  Inc.,  p.  103,  1986. 

Cline,  J.H.,  Standing  Liberty  Quarters,  i.H.  Cline,  pp.  76-121,  1976. 

Cline,  J.H.,  Standing  Liberty  Oerters  (Revised),]\i.  Cline,  pp.  101-178,  1986. 

Tayloi;  Dr,  Sol,  The  Collector’s  and  Lnvestor’s  Guide  to  the  Lincoln  Cent,  Sol  Taylor,  Ph.D.,  p.  44,  1982. 
Yeoman,  R.S.,  A  Guide  Book  of  United  States  Coins  -  42nd  Edition  1989,  Western  Publishing  Co.,  Inc., 
pp.  123-137,  1988. 

Zanei;  Keith  M.,  Trends,  COIN  WORLD,  Amos  Press  Inc.,  pp.  50-52  and  81-84,  February  14,  1990. 


FUN 

LM-ANA 
LM-CSNS 
LM-ISNA 
PENN-OHIO 
ICTA  MEMBER 
NGC  DEALER 
PCGS  DEALER 


SIANDEVG  UBERTY 
QUARTER  SPECIAUST 


WE  BUY  &  SELL  ALL  GRADES 


Write  or  Call  for  Details 

CLINE’S  RARE  COINS 

RO.  Box  68 

Palm  Harbor,  FL  34682 


‘We  humbly  solicit  your  want  list” 


J.H.  Cline,  Owner 

Phone: 

(813)  785-2148 
(813)  787-3478 


Journal  of  the  Standing  Liberty  Quarter  Collectors  Society 


19 


ADVERTISEMElVrS 


There  is  no  charge  for  classified  advertisements  from  collector-members;  maximum 
of  40  words. 


DEALER  ADVERTISING  RATES: 

Quarter  Page . 

Half  Page . 

Full  Page . 


One  Issue  Four  Issues 
§15.00  $50.00 

25.00  85.00 

40.00  135.00 


One  possible  copy  change  during  the  four-issue  period. 


Deadlines  for  articles,  letters  to  the  editor  and  advertisements  for  the  remaining  two 
issues  in  1990  are  August  15  and  November  15. 

Send  them  to  the  editor:  Larry  Gedney 
PO.  Box  102 
Ester,  Alaska  99725 


CLASSIFIED  ADS _ 

For  Sale 

Cline,  J.H.  Standing  Liberty  Quarters.  1976,  135  p.,  pi,  ill.,  S.C.  $7  UPS  $8  USPO 
Send  $1  (refundable)  for  full  book  list.  Henry  Bergos,  637  5th  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  NY 
11215. 

Choice  XF  and  AU  Standing  Liberty  Quarters.  Call  or  send  a  stamped,  self- 
addressed  envelope  for  price  list.  J.  Abbin,  1 1716  Tivoli  NE,  Abuquerque,  NM  87111 
(505)  296-7678. 

Wanted 

Needed:  One  1919-D  and  1919-S  IN  PCGS  MS64  State.  Send  price  in  letter  to  Jimmy 
Chan,  5140  East  Beverly  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles,  CA  90022-1704. 


JVote:  The  SLQCS  is  not  responsible  for  the  accuracy  of  any  advertising  contained  herein. 


