Summary of the Friday Sermon Delivered by Hazrat 
Mirza Tahir Ahmad - Khalifatul Masih IV. On 23 rd August 
1996, in Mannheim - Germany 



Surely Allah has purchased of the believers their persons and their property in return for the 
Paradise they shall shave, they fight in the cause of Allah and slay and are slain - A promise 
incumbent on Himself in the Torah, the Gospel and the Quran. So who is more faithful to his 
promise than Allah? Rejoice therefore in the bargain you have made with Him for that is the 
supreme triumph. 

The Holy Quran. al-Tawbah [The Repentance]: 111. 

Repentance is the subject of this sacred verse and also exile and fighting in the cause of Allah 
and in this way this verse is applicable to all those Communities in the world who after 
having been exiled for the sake of Allah are performing another exodus again for Allah's sake 
which relates to the present age. 

This subject does not only concern physical exile but spiritual exile too. Its explanation given 
by the Promised Messiah (peace be upon him) cannot be found anywhere in the whole of 
Islamic literature but all of it is based upon the Quran and the Ahadith [Traditions of Prophet 
Muhammad] which concern migration and is not outside [their remit]. 

This verse is fundamentally related to Bayat [Initiation]. The bargain of believers' lives and 
properties which Allah the Almighty mentions in this verse is declared by the Promised 
Messiah (peace be upon him) to be the true repentance because in offering true repentance 
one presents their all before God desiring salvation in return. 

The Community in Germany are the largest of all the world's Jamats in terms of numbers to 
have emigrated and with the grace of Allah the noble signs of exodus also stand out in you so 
this is why I have chosen this as subject today. His Holiness (peace be on him) has spoken of 
the subject of spiritual exodus alongside physical emigration and clarified the difference 
between spiritual exodus and worldly emigration. Spiritual exodus is lik e death from which 
it is impossible to return. When one gives up sinning and having abandoned its realms for 
good to migrate towards God in true repentance then one never ever returns towards the land 
of sins. Whereas in the physical migration of the world there is a possibility for a person to 
go back to that country at some point from which they had once emigrated. 

There should be no dry [formality] in [offering] Bayat and begging forgiveness and repenting 
because dry wood can never be attached with a flourishing green branch. Possessing 
qualities such as an honest heart and love and loyalty are essentials to receiving the bounties 
of Bayat. God has graced you with the system of Caliphate so tie yourselves to it with love 
from the depths of your hearts and protect it devotedly. There is the incident of Hazrat 
Khalifatul Masih I when he arrived to spend some time in Qadian and then requested the 
Promised Messiah (peace be upon him) to permit him to return but His Holiness said that he 
should stay longer, then when he told him to reside in Qadian instead of returning to his 
native land the first Khalifa says that after that he never once as much as entertained the 



thought of returning back to his native land. 1 This is the real spiritual exodus and this is the 
repentance that is accepted. Moreover this is the oath of Bayat towards which The Holy 
Quran is calling you. Repentance is in fact the name for migration made from sins to virtues. 
You have migrated from your country for the sake of God and are reaping its fruits. It is high 
time that we migrate from the city of sins to the city of virtues to begin a new spiritual life. 
The status of Siddiqiyya granted to Hazrat Khalifatul Masih I was in fact the fruit of both the 
spiritual and the physical migration. We should make use of prayer to achieve this status and 
ask God for the opportunity to offer true repentance. 

O those who have migrated from Pakistan! Wherever you are remember that you have 
performed one exodus and the promises God had made about that exodus have been fulfilled. 
You have seen that with the grace of God you have not diminished but have expanded as a 
result of this exodus. There is not a single promise that God has not fulfilled concerning 
exodus. So perform the exodus from the land of sins to the land of virtues now with full 
intent and complete devotion. This is the exodus after which there is no returning. After this 
death you are not to look behind to see which evil people you freed yourselves from and left 
behind. When you leave then leave completely and forget where you used to live and enter 
into a new life. 

Remember that when God has fulfilled the promises made about the physical exodus far in 
excess of your expectations He would also fulfil the promises made with those who perform 
the spiritual exodus. Perform this exodus and the whole world would be ready to perform 
exodus along with you. May Allah the Almighty enable us to perform this same exodus 
which is the final resort sought by the whole world. 



© Rehan Qayoom / The Tahir Archive, 2015. 



1 Nooruddin, Hazrat al-Hajj Hafiz Maulana Hakeem - Khalifatul Masih I. Mirqatul Yaqin, (1912). 



