Governmest 


P ublications 


Santé 
Canada 


Health 
Canada 


ivi 


LIT 


3 1761 11556850 3 


= 
+ 
= 


i 
= 
Ss 


‘A “a > & 
& 
ad 


\.. Digitized by the Internet Archive 
“wv in 2022 with funding from 
University of Toronto 


https://archive.org/details/31/61115568503 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Published by authority of the 
Minister of National Health and Welfare 


Emergency Services Division 
Medical Services Branch 


Egalement disponible en frangais sous le titre : 
Service d’habillement de secours 


Canadian Cataloguing in Publication Data 
Main entry: title 


|. Disaster relief -- Canada. 

2. Emergency clothing supply 
3. Civil defense -- Canada 

I. Canada. Health Canada. 
Emergency Services Division. 


HV 553:E53 1994 


This publication supersedes Emergency Clothing 
Operations 
1969 Cat. No. H84-4869. 


Printed in Canada 
March 1994 


Except for quoted passages from copyrighted sources, 
material from this free document may be reproduced or 
quoted in a free publication, provided Health Canada is 
credited, and the following copyright indication is given: 
© Minister of Supply and Services Canada 1994 


Written permission is required for reproduction in sold 
publications. 


© Minister of Supply and Services Canada 1994 
Cat. H34-60/1994E 
ISBN 0-662-22350-0 


Table of Contents 


OLCW O10 See te eC Ome ott, ee Ae, Sth SA NS, 
PNCIILOW [COCCI LE /L Sameer eee cts Bre Oa eh NS be Goes So. eon ky Ge 
MOOG OFM HCT? CHG VEO CIOS CIVICES eat ee ae re ao 
ie EIMaT ance OLlse Cenc ero ke LIS AS: Clon amnyea mr eae ee eR ete yay Fe iy hie ee ee i 
Ds EMeCESeNC WS OCIAU SCL VACCS ita er meet Ted eh ee erie TA a vee Beco iva Bellacor oh aloe, olin gitac ee: 
2 Fner CONC iEC LOUMNO SCE Vit Cm rem mara ny sua SB ws ore ana i Ant reid feta Kean Mea a al SO sar 
oe Bier cence COURT Resch Cr mma Me Ate een. nahin) Rb Ae eee US ol Glam ene me ee 
DL MCE CIC VE OOG ss hv C meee mrme Aare ter rar iar gre, kT ware, Reyare Pee gee pei as, eo BE ana ema ees cine 
2.4 Vee Te Prat Onvanel LOUIE yt OCLVICC mera ta made: nih a Sade diate aeaahah he terete PI aac PR aah ala 
MS PCS OM aly Ol VC CS mere ere a a eae ete Ghent Cee te A oh hie TN Te Peale eC tL ae 
of PMcrcenCvesCcla Services loo trl AOIne a each e Pe Gwe oO Pe c- ce ae 5, ns Se. Spay diel vege, «We als oe 
ah RecpolsibiliivsiGise 5 Sle alii Ome metre aa nai re one fk Se) cad Se a oath ot Ma yorey aces 
ae, ESS Goe riz ari cl pene Meee chy or Ri eine, otal Alen os 5 cadence th cl, 
4. (SOMmMUMI NE Me Cele veRN CopOlscsD Ania wae he care ech i tn Rone ae ue ys ee St ae st ea 
SV OMiCreime eel OCNGye GION CIS CLVICGm ates . eee. 5 ot ee ll oe 
Lat JEON Ne OUUCOAPONN a fr So. 6 Sooo SR Se ch Bok or ne ee ae ie a ea een Se eee cme ee: 
lee TAVINOK ES oR hee 8 ee Ge oo kn ae (A ee gm en a ee a ee ee 
es Emencenevat ounce Responsesmi DiISAS(Ci no. a 0 ater eer ete, Soe ee ee hs ee Sw oe SG 
wosoll Wind Neterelwl ase Megs co A 4 es Fee are eee eee nner 2, en a a aoe 
Pe ee AIG CO CCAS marr yen eer nr ae rv Ne ce a ne en eae Cee RRO, a BOON eee Soke. 
1.4 Ong (oro eUNCCC Set mentee etwas no es ee A i a ae ee ee Be 
GGDICIN eRe INeErCenGy CLOWNS NEMVICe OLOGiizauon 22... 4 24 ne sg 
Phe | SAU ANAVROYDC xe et eed ol SR oat gsr Bi ene en ge re ee ee ea a ee eee 
one OT can Z Aon Ages UCL Com mr ct MP nneenn ee cae, Wane Oe AME aS we AAG See dec owls oe ged. 
PPS IG) i ceam Onin SOOIS | DL Lele Sm teen nar erm eRe wrk Oe ah Pee Se co se A gt oleh 2 St ear ee 
Re soll’ « CMEC IVO) NERC SS Saas A 8 oC de a en as NS green or Mee ae ce eer a a 
roe eee CaPrannin se Commitice mm pay aes ose le rece le) oS eA ek F eee oe Sued 
Comer e Ce UPehvasOtsrtsh CCUp ion: © CHILCS mmr wera (Mat Meee ee tte oe ose he eM, eyes 
Der mn Con VNOE MCL orate eCEDILOIn (CONLCS a meee tenant he Ee ROM ie Mer te ht Se ees we ee eng ta a 
(eV OU LCI (Gel CAL saci e tee keine tee see Stee, Paces te ee going nee Ul Sti ge ney ge acs 
2.4 RHAGP TO PR ENN) (a GOR See ct aed alate a Sige ntl. nS, earl a halt Aiea eerie Nera a eee gare 
Je. RECHHEN OL: GePcESONNel Meme matron mare Naas oe ern ys es eam an wages te hn sade sent os. fu tl 
Cor UCC e SIO SOULE CSOr PerCOllclmn ma een tcc KRW Set, 6 lian uncle ane Bare ye 
PPP ELEC OUT @ICli mnene eee ye fir ce ea eee ne net es he. Raictck Bhs eo ah iets nee et 8 
Cem Desirable; hexsOnaleo nti Or Ce WOLKCIS Er a se a eS ee vs es, So se Son hon Gn 
PED OCC ALIZe Cd, COMMUNICA Oly apes sett nies lee ewes aus hau Gani Sang fags 8 SoC he th ope 


Con I) 


(oe) 


Chapter III: Emergency Clothing Resource Survey and Directory ........ 


Sal Training Responsibilsties* 2 sea 03 i wast eee, lee te eee een ene ec ee 


Del introduetione tec es ce eee ates Be ee 
oe Planning.the BC Surveyanaerc 2 sao oestee 
a8 Congucume tiesSUTVE ys ae ce or ea 
3.4 Clouiine Survey VOU. po vee eres cet: 
3.0 Written A STEGINEMES note. Gus ater tis me 
5:6 Emergency Clothing Directory .. 4. 2 2 3. 
ed IV: Operational Guidelines . 

Itc UGE Ole was oes ms ees eee ee 
ie General Operational Guidelines ....... 
4.3 Specitic Operational Guidelmes = 5 2. >: 
4.5.. Hmergency Covering Phase...) 9... - 
a2 ecinerecucy Glothings Phase Sins 4 ae 
4.5.9, Kctumta Notmal Piasee (5. cee) s one een 
4.3.4 Blankets and Bedding Supplies. ....... 
4.4 SPecial ClothineScueSeet = aa cumin eee pee 
A anle New versus Used (Clothingy as eee Sloe « 
4.4.2 Unsolicited Clothing Donations ....... 
Aa) PetsOlal COMmOrN iS) 2 eis ool ee oe 
CEA eA pe AV CUCCS get ee ed eet te Sy Cate ee 
OUGDICTAV Gael Cane ee 
Sey rain e Pro ct atin arene een ee a ee 


Chapter VI: Emergency Clothing Plan 


6.1 Planning -Responsitoilities 0 team. ©. ae eget see as rahe a ate oe err 
Oz some Charactenstics onthe Plan 2a aret serves ns ct att vantage ome gee an een ene ee 
6.3 Contetit of the Platiw yea 4 5 tian ok te oe ae’) a ep ee ee ele 
6.4 Written Aereementa.,, 2's Gata yee ad ci eas Oa eres eee an Nec eo 
6.5 MutuabAvdsA orecments*s 5 515720 ce bal 2 ste dd ect te tens cae 
6.6 Testing oithe-Operation, ©. tec coe eae tee Gi ag i ec ee ce at eo 
6.7 Distabutinie the: Blairs oy hres ee oe Ae tie oct he emcee A ee ee 
Appendices 

Appendix A. Emergency Social Services — Organization Chartecg, 58) sage et 
Appendix BB. Emergency Clothing Services — Organization Chart 2). Gen soe ee 


Appendix C 


Appendix D 
Appendix E 
Appendix F 


Appendix G 
Appendix H 
Appendix I 
Appendix J 


Equipment and Supplies Required by the Emergency Clothing Service at 


Operational sitese se ees 
Emergency Clothing — Operations Log 
Emergency Clothing — Survey Record 


City of Edmonton Disaster Service Social Services Department Blankets and 


Clothing es upp crema me een men ae 


Emergency Clothing Resource Directory Carlingwood District - Ottawa West ....... 


Emergency Clothing Directory Update 
Emergency Preparedness — Checklist 
Emergency Kit — Evacuation Checklist 


Foreword 


This manual, produced by the Emergency Services 
Division of Health Canada, is a practical guide to 
training staff as well as planning, organizing and 
delivering the Emergency Clothing Service in a disaster. 


The objective of the Emergency Clothing Service is to 
provide clothing to persons in need in a disaster in order 
[ee 


e prevent loss of life from exposure; and 
e meet clothing needs until normal sources of supply 
are available. 


The information offered in this manual is based on 
current knowledge and practice derived from case 
reports, the practical experiences of Emergency 
Clothing volunteers and organizations, as well as the 
personal experiences of disaster victims. 


It is hoped that this publication will be a useful tool for 
planners, trainers and workers responsible for the 
Emergency Clothing Service in communities across 
Canada. 


Comments or suggestions that would help improve the 
delivery of this service are welcomed and should be sent 
to: Emergency Services Division, Medical Services 
Branch, Health Canada, 11 Floor, Jeanne Mance 
Building, Tunney’s Pasture, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A OL3. 


Acknowledgements 


This manual is the product of the commitment and 
dedication of many people. The Emergency Services 
Division, Health Canada, wishes to express its 
appreciation to all contributors. 


We are grateful first to volunteers and human service 
professionals from across Canada involved in the 
planning and delivery of Emergency Clothing to 
survivors of disasters such as forest fires, tornadoes, 
floods, toxic spills, explosions and transportation 
accidents. 


We are particularly indebted to provincial and territorial 
directors of Emergency Social Services and to the 
director of the Emergency Services Division, Lorraine 
Davies, for their assistance in the preparation of this 
manual. 


We wish to thank the staff of the Canadian Red Cross, 
both at the national and provincial levels for their 
comments and suggestions. 


We also wish to acknowledge Suzanne Barnes-Bélisle 
for her patient and untiring help in producing this 
document. 


Raymond Lafond, Social Work Consultant with the 
Emergency Services Division, Health Canada, was 
responsible for researching and writing the manual. 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Introduction 


Emergency Social Services 


1. Human Consequences of 
Disasters 


Every year a variety of natural and man-made disasters 
such as floods, fires, tornadoes, ice storms, blizzards, 
hazardous chemical spills, transportation crashes and 
industrial accidents strike communities across Canada. 


Although disasters may cause destruction to the physical 
environment, they primarily affect people. Lives are 
lost, people injured, homes destroyed, and families 
dislocated. The resulting human grief as well as the 
social and economic disruptions affect the well-being of 
individuals, families and the community as a whole. 


2. Emergency Social Services 


In a large-scale disaster, the volume, urgency and 
intensity of human needs and the degree of social 
disorganization are such that regular community social 
service resources are unable to cope. The situation 
requires the implementation of an emergency social 
services response system to meet urgent physical and 
personal needs until regular social services or special 
recovery programs are effectively in operation. 


Emergency Social Services (ESS) is a planned 
emergency response organization designed to provide 
those basic services considered essential for the 
immediate and continuing well-being of persons 
affected by a disaster. 


Five Emergency Social Services are considered essential: 


2.1 Emergency Clothing Service 
supplies clothing or emergency covering until regular 
sources of supply are available. 


2.2 Emergency Lodging Service 
arranges for safe, temporary lodging for homeless or 
evacuated people. 


7 oe einereciicy Foodservice 
provides food or meals to those persons without food or 
food preparation facilities. 


2.4 Registration and Inquiry Service 
assists 1n reuniting families, collects information and 
answers inquiries regarding the condition and 
whereabouts of missing persons. 


2.5 Personal Services 

provide for the initial reception of disaster victims 
arriving at reception centres; inform them of immediate 
emergency help available; offer temporary care for 
unattended children and dependent elderly; assist with 
the temporary care of residents from special care 
facilities; provide or arrange for provision of financial 
and/or material assistance; and offer immediate and 
long-term emotional support to people with personal 
problems and needs created or aggravated by a disaster. 


3. Emergency Social Service 
(ESS) Planning 


3.1 Municipal Planning 


Responsibility for ESS planning rests with a 
community’s existing human service agencies and 
organizations such as: 


e municipal or provincial departments of social 
services, public health, mental health, family and 
children’s services, etc.; 

@ private social service agencies; 

e service clubs, church groups and branches of national 
organizations; and 

e business and professional associations. 


Emergency Clothing Service 


A community’s ESS response organization is built from 
and integrally linked to the existing community human 
service organizations. Its role is to support and assist the 
local human service structure, not replace it. 


3.2 ESS Organization Chart 


An example of a suggested community ESS response 
organization is included in Appendix A. 


4. Community Emergency 
Response Plan 


The Community Emergency Response Plan describes 
the measures that each municipal department — fire, 
police, health, transport, utilities, social services, etc. — 
is expected to carry out in an emergency. 


Once written, the ESS response plan becomes part of the 
overall community emergency response plan and should 
be read in conjunction with the main plan. 


Emergency Social Services 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Chapter I 


Emergency Clothing Service 


1.1 Introduction 


In Canada, because of the climate, it is essential to 
provide for an immediate supply of emergency covering 
and clothing for disaster victims. 


1.2 Purpose 


The Emergency Clothing (EC) service is a planned 
emergency response organization designed to provide 
clothing to persons in need in a disaster: 


e to prevent loss of life from exposure; and 
¢ to meet clothing needs until normal sources of supply 
are available. 


13 Emergency Clothing 
Responses in Disaster 


Emergency Clothing provides the following disaster 
Services: 


oe iulntkeeeption: Gentres 


Disaster victims directed to Reception Centres’ might 
be inadequately clothed. Those requiring immediate 
emergency covering would be given a blanket or other 
clothing items to protect them against exposure before 
assignment to temporary lodging. 


Disaster victims who are inadequately clothed or whose 
clothing was lost or destroyed in a disaster or who are 
evacuated and have no access to the clothing left in their 


homes would be provided with basic clothing assistance. 


* A Reception Centre is a one-stop service site where evacuees are 
received and in which all five emergency social services are 
provided: clothing, lodging, food, registration and inquiry, and 
personal services. 


1.3.2 In Damaged Areas 


Mobile Emergency Clothing teams may have to proceed 
to the damaged area to provide emergency covering to 
SUrVIVOTS. 


1.4 Long-term Clothing Needs 


Emergency Clothing is responsible for the immediate 
provision of clothing to people during the emergency 
phase of a disaster. Long-term clothing needs are the 
responsibility of regular social service authorities. 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Chapter II 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Organization 


2.1 Planning 


In order to meet the clothing needs of disaster victims 
quickly, a community must have a well-trained 
Emergency Clothing (EC) organization ready to begin 
operations immediately after a disaster occurs. This 
chapter outlines the steps to follow to organize EC in a 
community. 


2.2. Organizational Structure 


The size of the community determines the structure and 
scope of the EC organization. It should also be flexible 
enough to respond to varying emergency situations and 
demands. 


A suggested EC organization chart is included in 
Appendix B. 


2.3. Roles and Responsibilities 


EC staff must clearly understand their roles and 
responsibilities if they are to achieve a prompt and 
effective response. 


Zoo ehier one 


The organization of EC in a community begins with the 
appointment and training of the chief of EC by the 
director of Emergency Social Services. 


The responsibilities of the chief of EC include: 
Prior to a Disaster 


e selecting an EC planning and organizing committee; 
e selecting and training staff; 


e establishing good working relations with retail, 
wholesale, and charitable clothing organizations in the 
community; 

e planning with charitable organizations, churches, 
service clubs or other volunteer groups for the 
reception and distribution of used clothing; 

e conducting surveys of the clothing suppliers in the 
community; 

e developing the EC response plan and testing the plan 
by holding regular EC exercises, then revising and 
updating the plan; 

e testing the plan by participating in ESS exercises; 

¢ coordinating the EC plan with those of the other four 
ESS and municipal emergency services; 

e ensuring that all EC operational sites have the 
necessary equipment and supplies (see Appendix C); 


During a Disaster 

e reporting to the director of ESS and, if required, 
initiating and directing EC operations; 

e ensuring the maintenance of an EC log (see 
Appendix D) and providing ongoing reports on 
problems, needs, and status of activities to the director 
of ESS; 

e requesting human resources, equipment and materiel 
from the director of ESS, e.g. telecommunication 
equipment, transportation, etc. 


After a Disaster 

e ensuring that EC staff are included in Critical Incident 
Stress Debriefing, if required; 

e ensuring that all EC operational sites are restocked 
and borrowed equipment is returned; and, 

e preparing a report on EC emergency activities for the 
director of ESS. 


10 


Emergency Clothing Service 


2.3.2 The EC Planning Committee 


In large communities, the chief of EC may want to 
select a committee to assist in planning and testing the 
plan. 


(i) Composition 


In selecting members to form the planning committee, 
the chief should call upon experienced people in the 
clothing field or in related fields such as: 


e retail or wholesale clothing outlets; 

e local dry cleaning or laundry establishments; 

e local or national charitable organizations experienced 
in used clothing operations; 

e church groups, service clubs, volunteer organizations; 

e social service agencies. 


(ii) Responsibilities 


The committee assists the chief in planning, testing and 
revising the EC response plan and making a continuing 
assessment of problems likely to arise in a disaster. 


2.3.3 EC Supervisors at 
Reception Centres 


The chief of EC appoints an EC supervisor for each 
Reception Centre in the community. The EC supervisor 
is responsible to the Reception Centre manager for 
administrative matters and to the chief of EC at the ESS 
coordination centre for operational matters. 


The responsibilities of the EC supervisor are: 


Prior to a Disaster 

e plan the EC service at assigned Reception Centre; 

e determine the operating space, equipment and 
supplies required; 

e train EC staff and ensure availability of necessary EC 
equipment and supplies (see Appendix C); 

e ensure that EC personnel participate in exercises. 


During a Disaster 

e mobilize staff when EC plan is activated and set up 
EC service in assigned Reception Centre; 

e coordinate EC activities within the Reception Centre 
area; 

¢ requisition additional supplies of clothing through the 
EC chief, as required; 


Emergency Clothing Service Organization 


e prepare work schedules, maintain EC log (see 
Appendix D) and report regularly on problems, 
needs, and status of activities to the chief of EC; 

¢ maintain stock records as required; 

© organize and dispatch, on direction from the EC chief, 
mobile EC teams. 


After the Disaster 

e turn over EC administrative records to the chief of EC; 

@ prepare a report on EC activities for the chief of EC; 

e restock EC equipment and supplies at operational 
sites; 

e participate in the evaluation of EC service. 


2.3.4 EC Workers at Reception 
Centres 


Under the direction of the EC supervisor, EC workers 
would: 


e set up clothing issue and stock room as required; 

e brief evacuees on services provided by EC; 

e issue emergency covering such as blankets, coats, 
sweat suits and tops as required; 

e be responsible for the receipt and storing of clothing 
supplies from retailers or other clothing sources; 

e when directed, interview evacuees and make referrals 
for articles of clothing to be obtained; 

e issue available clothing as required; 

e record name and address of the individual or family 
assisted; 

e maintain running records of stock on hand. 


2.3.5 Mobile EC Teams 


Each Reception Centre provides for one EC mobile 
team who, under the direction of the EC supervisor 
would: 


e proceed to the fringe of the damaged or affected areas 
with emergency covering for evacuees pending their 
transportation to Reception Centres; and 

e transport clothing to evacuees at group lodging 
facilities within the Reception Centre area. 


2.4 Backup Staff 


In a major disaster, the EC service may have to operate 
on a 24-hour basis. Backup staff will be required to 
replace initial response staff. 


I] 


Emergency Clothing Service 


2.5 Recruiting EC Personnel 


2.5.1 Suggested Sources 
of Personnel 


Persons with knowledge and experience in the clothing 
field are well-suited to organize and operate the EC 
service. These persons, as part of their daily tasks, 
would be familiar with local clothing resources. 


Such persons can be recruited from clothing businesses, 
cleaning services, charitable organizations, church 
groups, service clubs or social services agencies. 


In some communities, voluntary organizations may 
accept overall responsibility for planning and operating 
the EC service. 


2.5.2 selection Criteria 


In considering candidates for key EC positions, the 
following criteria are suggested for consideration: 


e experience in the clothing field; 

e familiarity with community; 

e leadership and organizational ability; 

e flexibility; 

e ability to cooperate and to delegate responsibilities; 
¢ good communication skills; 

e training skills. 


Regardless of their previous training and experience, 
candidates will need training in community Emergency 
Social Service planning. 


2.5.3 Desirable Personal Skills 
for EC Workers 


In a major disaster, people inquiring about emergency 
clothing may be extremely anxious and upset. It is 
important, therefore, to recruit mature, sensitive EC 
workers who are: 


e caring individuals who can express genuine concern 
for the needs of the survivors; 

e good listeners who can assess a survivor’s emotional 
state and respond appropriately; 

e able to remain calm under pressure; 


|e 


e able to communicate clearly both orally and on paper; 
e able to record information accurately and legibly. 


2.5.4 Specialized Communication 


The Chief of EC should ensure the availability of 
personnel who are capable of responding to persons 
who have specific communication needs: hearing- 
impaired, blind, persons who cannot read, or persons 
who may not speak or understand the language of the 
majority. Persons may have to be recruited from the 
evacuated community to assist. 


Emergency Clothing Service Organization 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Chapter III 


Emergency Clothing Resource 
Survey and Directory 


3.1 Introduction 


The Emergency Clothing (EC) resource survey is the 
means used to obtain detailed information regarding 
location, quantity, type and availability of clothing 
resources in the community. The survey enables the EC 
service to establish and maintain a clothing resource 
directory to respond rapidly to the emergency clothing 
needs of people in a disaster. 


3.2 Planning the EC Survey 


The chief of EC has the overall responsibility for 
planning the EC survey but can be assisted by members 
of the EC planning committee and EC personnel. 


All survey workers should be briefed by the EC chief 
concerning a common approach and details to be 
recorded. 


Each person or establishment to be contacted must be 
forewarned of the survey and know its purpose. This 
information could be conveyed in a letter signed by the 
chief of EC or director of Emergency Social Services. 


3.3. Conducting the Survey 


An on-site survey of various clothing establishments 
will be necessary to obtain precise information on 
sources of clothing supply in a community. 


The main supply sources would be: 


(a) Retail, Wholesale and Manufacturer’s 
Establishments 


The retail, wholesale and manufacturing establishments 
would be the main sources of clothing, blankets, 
footwear, equipment and supplies essential to the EC 
service. 


(b) Used Clothing 
In many communities, charitable organizations operate 


used clothing stores and have on-hand supplies of clean 
clothing, blankets and footwear ready to be distributed. 


(c) Hotels, Motels, Special-Care Facilities 
A survey of potential sources of blankets and bedding 


such as hotels, motels and special-care facilities should 
also be completed. 


3.4 Clothing Survey Form 


A suggested form for conducting a survey of clothing 
supplies available in local areas is attached as 
Appendix E. 


This particular form merely indicates the estimated 
clothing in stock at the date indicated on the bottom of 
the page. 


13 


Emergency Clothing Service 


3.5 Written Agreements 


Once suitable clothing resources in the community are 
identified, EC personnel should contact the individuals 
or organizations which manage these resources and 
written agreements for their use in an emergency should 
be concluded. With some clothing resources, such as 
retail establishments, compensation and methods of 
payment would have to be agreed upon ahead of time. 


See Appendix F for an example of a written agreement 
between the City of Edmonton Disaster Services and a 
clothing supplier. 


3.6 Emergency Clothing 
Directory 


Once a survey of emergency resources in the 
community is completed, EC personnel should 
summarize the information collected in an EC 
Directory. The Directory facilitates quick location and 
access to appropriate clothing supplies in an emergency. 
Refer to Appendix G for an example of an Emergency 
Clothing directory. 


The directory should be reviewed at least once a year. 
This will ensure that recorded information is accurate 
and up-to-date. 


See Appendix H for an example of a letter used to 
review and update the Emergency Clothing directory 
and agreements. 


14 


Emergency Clothing Resource Survey and Directory 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Chapter IV 


Operational Guidelines 


4.1 Introduction 


The purpose of this chapter 1s to provide Emergency 
Clothing (EC) personnel with general and specific 
operational guidelines to be followed in the operation of 
the EC services. 


4.2 General Operational 
Guidelines 


4.2.1 


New clothing from regular suppliers will be the main 
source of supply in order to maintain the dignity of 
disaster victims. In some disasters, used clothing may 
have to be issued as a temporary measure. As soon as 
possible, clothing needs will be met through financial 
assistance so that persons may purchase new clothing 
and make their own decisions as to type, size and so on. 


4.2.2 


If possible, attempt to advise people during the warning 
phase to bring essential clothing items with them if they 
are forced to evacuate. (See Appendix I). 


4.2.3 


Label clothing items borrowed. 


4.2.4 


Maintain records of clothing issued. 


4.3 Specific Operational 
Guidelines 


4.3.1 Emergency Covering 
Phase 


Immediately following a disaster, the main objective is 
the provision of emergency covering in order to prevent 
loss of life. SPEED of service is all important. The 
supply items of greatest value during this phase would 
be woollen blankets and coats. Blankets can be used as: 


¢ complete covering for a person until shelter is reached: 

e tents, stretchers, ground sheets; 

¢ covering to wrap children or casualties or as a 
wind-break. 


In order to respond immediately when a disaster occurs, 
the EC service must have: 


e a mobile EC team that can transport emergency 
covering to evacuees at the disaster site; 

e aready-to-go supply of blankets, sweat pants and tops 
(various sizes); 

e ready access to identified retailers of blankets and 
clothing. 


The main objective in this first phase is to save lives. 


4.3.2 Emergency Clothing 
Phase 


When evacuees arrive at Reception Centres, EC staff 
should provide or arrange for identified clothing outlets 
to provide a basic outfit of clothing to those in need. The 
objective in this phase is to provide adequate warm 
clothing so that evacuees can work and care for 
themselves. There is no attempt at this stage to satisfy 
personal tastes. 


15 


Emergency Clothing Service 


In order to meet the immediate clothing needs of 
evacuees, the EC service at the Reception Centre should 
have a minimum supply of blankets or covering on hand 
or immediate access to clothing outlets. 


4.3.3. Return to Normal Phase 


In this last phase, people would wish to obtain clothing 
in accordance with their personal tastes from retail 
clothing stores in their normal manner if possible. 
Where financial assistance is required, this would be 
provided by social service agencies after interviews in 
which personal needs have been verified. 


4.3.4 Blankets and Bedding 
Supplies 


The EC service may be required to provide pillows, 
bedding and blankets for evacuees lodged in congregate 
facilities such as schools, churches, community halls 

or other sites. EC works in consultation with the 
Emergency Lodging Service which organizes and 
coordinates services to evacuees in group lodging 
facilities. 


4.4 Special Clothing Issues 
4.4.1 New Versus Used Clothing 


The policy of issuing new rather than used clothing has 
been adopted because of a fundamental need to respect 
the dignity of people. 


The policy is also based on the following practical 
reasons: 


(a) new clothing is readily available from local retail 
outlets, this avoids having to store large stocks and 
EC can speedily make use of these; 

(b) people can select clothing that fits and colours that 
are appropriate; 

(c) organizing clothing drives and sorting clothes is a 
time-consuming process and requires a great 
number of volunteers. Such a process cannot meet 
urgent clothing needs; 

(d) costs of handling, transporting and storing clothes 
are high; 

(e) purchasing clothing from local outlets following a 
disaster contributes to the economic recovery of the 
devastated area. 


4.4.2 Unsolicited Clothing 
Donations 


Past experience has shown that communities which are 
struck by a disaster become focal points for a flood of 
unorganized clothing donations. Tons of clothing, some 
of it unsuitable, arrive on the scene where there are 
seldom facilities, people, or time to clean, sort and 
classify it adequately. Under disaster conditions, this 
presents an additional problem for emergency clothing 
authorities. With careful planning, this unorganized 
flood of clothing donations can be avoided. 


A prepared statement that can be immediately 
distributed to the media is one practical means of 
lessening the flow of unsolicited clothing to a disaster 
area. The statement should cover the following points: 


e that the clothing needs of survivors have been met and 
clothing donations are no longer required; 

e that people’s generosity is appreciated; 

e that people can best help survivors and the devastated 
community by making a financial donation to an 
officially recognized disaster relief fund; 

e information should be made available regarding the: 

— name of the relief fund; 
— address (street, city, postal code); and 
— telephone number. 


INSTRUCTION: 


e If donor is insistent about donating goods, state that 
information on the goods offered will be entered in a 
database that local emergency responders in the field 
can access should the need arise. 

e Donors should be discouraged from sending 
unsolicited donations directly to the disaster site. 


4.4.3 Personal Comfort Kits 


In some disasters, people may be forced to evacuate 
suddenly without prior warning. Evacuees arriving at 
Reception Centres would require personal care/toiletry 
items. The EC service should have on hand an adequate 
number of personal comfort kits (for men and women) 
for such a situation. 


16 


Operational Guidelines 


Emergency Clothing Service 


The personal comfort kits could include the following 
items: 


face cloth 

towel 

small bar of soap 

toothbrush and small tube of toothpaste 
comb 

package of facial tissue 

sanitary pack 

disposable razors 


4.4.4 Layettes 


A second type of prepared kit would be baby layettes. 
A suggested list of articles to make up a layette includes: 


three dozen disposable diapers 
two stretch sleepers 

towel 

washcloth 

blanket or bunting bag 
petroleum jelly 

baby wipes 

infant soap 

card of safety pins 


Again, consideration should be given to the storing of a 
number of layettes for an unexpected emergency. 


Operational Guidelines 


Iii 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Chapter V 


Training 


5.1 Training Responsibilities 


The chief is responsible for ensuring Emergency 
Clothing (EC) personnel receive training. 


5.2. Training Program 
The content of the EC training program should include: 
e Orientation to Community Emergency Planning 
— an explanation of the roles and responsibilities of 
municipal emergency response organizations such 
as police, fire, health, public works, etc; 
— an explanation of the role and responsibilities of the 
Emergency Planning Coordinator. 


e Purpose and Role of Emergency Social Services 


— an explanation of the four other Emergency Social 
Services and their responsibilities. 


e The EC Service 
— purpose; 
— responsibilities; 
— organization. 
e The EC Resources Survey and Directory 
— purpose of EC resources survey and directory; 
— EC resource survey records — explanation of their 


use and how to complete them. 


e EC Operational Guidelines 


Role of EC at Reception Centres 


e The EC Plan 


— alerting and mobilizing; 

— action to be taken upon mobilizing; 
lines of succession; 

operating procedures. 


e The Operational Log 


— purpose 
— utilization 


18 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Chapter VI 


Emergency Clothing Plan 


6.1 Planning Responsibilities 


In order to respond promptly to the Emergency Clothing 
(EC) needs of disaster victims, the EC service must have 
a written plan that can be implemented in an organized 
and coordinated manner as soon as a disaster occurs. 


The EC plan is developed by the EC chief and planning 
committee. Once written, the EC plan is an annex to the 
ESS response plan, which in turn is part of the overall 
community emergency response plan. Therefore, the EC 
plan should be read in conjunction with these plans. 


6.2 Some Characteristics 
of the Plan 


The EC plan should be clear, concise, realistic and kept 
up-to-date. It should be flexible enough to allow on-site 
staff to improvise and make adjustments to meet 
changing situations. EC planners should, as part of their 
planning process, attempt to anticipate typical problems 
that could arise within the EC service in an emergency 
and develop alternate solutions. 


6.3. Content of the Plan 


The following information is a guide that could be 
utilized in writing the plan. A brief explanation for each 
suggested main heading is provided, including: 


(1) Name and Date 
The plan should have a name to distinguish it from other 
plans. 


(2) Purpose 
A statement giving the aim of the plan. 


(3) Organization and Line of Authority 
A statement on the organization and lines of authority 
with specific details provided in appendices such as: 


e organization charts; and 
e lines of succession and alternates. 


(4) Implementation of the Plan 
Specific details on when the plan is to be implemented 
and by whom. 


(5) Alerting Procedures 
A statement with specific details provided in appendices 
such as: 


e the alert organization to include alternates and levels 
of response for agencies and individuals; and 

e the fan out or recall procedures including an alternate 
method. 


(6) Resources 
A statement with specific details in appendices which 
should detail resources required such as: 


e Personnel 
Name, address and telephone numbers. of all trained 
EC workers and their job assignments. Remember that 
you may require back-up staff if initial response 
workers become fatigued. 


e Emergency Lodging Resources 
Address and telephone numbers* of Reception 
Centres and group lodging facilities. Name, address 
and telephone numbers* of persons who have access 
to these facilities. 


* Home and work numbers. 


19 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Supplies and Equipment 

Checklist of all EC equipment and supplies (see 
Appendix C) and their locations. Name, address and 
telephone numbers* of persons who have access to 
these supplies. 


Telecommunication 

Name, address, and telephone numbers* of persons or 
organizations who have agreed to assist EC with their 
communication needs (amateur radio, CB clubs, 
telephone company, messenger service). 


Multilingual and Other Communication Services 
Name, address, telephone numbers and 
communication skills of persons who have agreed to 
assist ESS with communication needs. 


(7) Training 
A statement with specific details provided in an 
appendix to include: 


e who is responsible for the training program; 
e when and where the training will be conducted; 
e by whom the training will be carried out. 


(S) Testing the Plan 
A statement with an accompanying appendix to include: 


e who is responsible for testing the plan; 
e how often the plan will be tested. 


(9) Reviewing and Updating 
This section should include methods of review and 
procedures for updating the plan. 


6.4 Written Agreement 


A written statement of agreement should be negotiated 
with organizations which have agreed to provide 
clothing, personnel, facilities and equipment to support 
or operate the EC service. 


* Home and work numbers. 


6.5 Mutual Aid Agreements 


Mutual aid agreements are recommended between 
adjacent communities to ensure that municipalities can 
promptly and effectively assist each other in the event of 
an emergency. These plans should be approved by the 
governing body of each community. 


6.6 Testing of the Operation 


After the EC plan has been drawn up, workers recruited 
and trained, equipment and supplies located, the next 
logical step is to test the organizational and operational 
response plans, procedures, and workers’ performance. 
One of the best ways to do this is to hold a series of 
exercises. The first ones should be "paper exercises." 
These could involve EC staff assigned to one Reception 
Centre. These should be followed by others more 
ambitious in size and scope involving all five 
Emergency Social Services. These exercises should be 
coordinated by the Emergency Social Services director. 


Exercises show up the strengths and weaknesses of the 
plan and performance of the workers. They indicate 
whether the service as it stands, can achieve its aims, 
and whether positions are properly defined. An 
evaluation with the staff should follow each exercise. 


6.7 Distributing the Plan 


The distribution of the plan is sometimes overlooked by 
emergency planners. An emergency plan is of no use if 
the plan and its provisions are only known to the person 
who prepared it. 


To ensure coordination and cooperation in the event of 
an emergency, the content of the EC plan should 
therefore be made known to relevant emergency 
response organizations and agencies who will be 
involved or affected by its execution, such as police, 
fire, health, school board and so on. The distribution of 
the EC plan to interested parties is paramount if the 
desire results are to be achieved during its 
implementation. 


20 


Emergency Clothing Plan 


Emergency Clothing Service 


‘sjuejysisse auinbas Aew suoiyisod asay} jo awos * 
‘panladas aq 0} S2andeAa Jo Jaquinu ayy UO Hulpuedeq =z 
‘suayew aAijesjsiuiwpe Joj Jobeuew asjuad uoldedey —— 
“SJaWEW |BUONOUNS JO} SAdIAJAS pouBisse JIayy JO JalyD ~~ ~~ 
‘pauiquiod eq Aew suoiisod aAoge au} Jo awWoOs Saljediolunw jews U| = E :Qy} 0} Wodas SasjUad UONdeday je BdIAJAS YOeA JO See Lon ) 


4dAVLS ddVLS 4dAVLS dsVLS dAVLS 


“SuoIsod |Je JO} pauinbaJ oue yes yuowace|day =“y 


Asinbuy pue BdIAIBS 
SEDIAIBS JEUOSI8d uonensibey poo4 Aouebiew3 Builbpo7 ar eo Buiyyojo ees 
JosiIAsadns losialedns josiuedns JosiAuadns Josiuadns 


T 1 
| 


T 
i 
! | 
| 


YSOVNVIN 
3YLNAD | ! 
| NOILd393u 
Auinbu| pue BdIAIaS 
IAJag jeu d ; Bulbpo7 Aouebiew3 Buiyjo|ja AousBiews 
Sad! ea ; a pee ae epee 4aiuD 4aIuD 
| 
SSLLINWOS ONINNV Id a SSSDIAYSS 
SSSDIAYSS WIDOS AONSDYAWS 
WIDOS AONSDYAWA 7 a YOLOAYIG 


\ XlGNaddv 


LYVHD NOILVZINVOYO 
SADIAYNAS IWIDOS AONADYAWSA 


Al 


Emergency Clothing Service 


WV3L ONIHLOT9 
AONSOYAWS ATIGOW 


dAVLS 


| 


JYLN3D NOILdd03uy 
ONIHLO1D AONADYAWS 


JSALLINWOD ONINNV Id 
ONIHLO1D AONSADYAWS 


SSDIAYAS ONIHLOT9 
AODNADYAWA 
AAIHO 


gq XIGNaddV 


SSDIAYNAS WIDOS 
AONASDYAWA 
YOLOANIG 


LYVHS NOILVZINVDYO 
SADIAYAS ONIHLO1D AONSSDYSINA 


ap 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Appendix C 


Equipment and Supplies Required 
by the Emergency Clothing Service 


at Operational Sites 


The following is a list of basic equipment and supplies 
required by the Emergency Clothing Service (EC) staff 
at operational sites. 


1. Emergency Social Services 
— Headquarters 


1.1 Equipment and Supplies 


In addition to the usual office equipment, special 
equipment such as maps of the community, overlays, 
resources boards, message forms, log sheets and regular 
or cellular phone should be available. Records, such as 
the Emergency Lodging Plan and manual, are essential. 


2. Reception Centres 


2 le Space 


Space would be required for two clothing issue rooms 
and for reserve stock. For issuing purposes, an average 
classroom size room with entrance and exit doors would 
be suitable. 


2.2 Equipment and Supplies 


e Emergency Clothing Service signs * 

e Directional and other signs * 

Caps, badges and/or arm bands * 

Chairs or benches 

Desks or tables 

Metal coat racks 

Coat hangers 

Large plastic or paper bags 

Paper, pencils *, ballpoint pens, paper clips 
Stapler and staples 


e Felt markers (various colours) 

e Operations Log — see appendix D ** 

e Message form (round trip memos) 

e Emergency Clothing Form — see appendix E ** 

e Blank filing cards (20.5 cm x 12.5 cm) 

e File drawers, card indexes 

e Envelopes or boxes to ship forms 

e Tape — cellulose, masking 

e Telephones (regular and cellular), telecopier, 
computer, photocopier 

e Emergency Lodging Manual* and plan 


2.3 Clothing and Blankets 


Each Reception Centre should have on hand a reserve of: 


e Blankets (minimum of 25) 
e Coats 
e Jogging outfits (various sizes) 


3. Supplementary Items 


Supplementary items required to operate the Emergency 
Clothing Service should be obtained locally. 


4. Reception Centre Kits 


The Reception Centre Kit is a plywood case containing 
the basic operational forms, stationery supplies, and 
equipment necessary to set up and operate the five 
Emergency Social Services in a Reception Centre or 
Group Lodging Facility. 


* — Ttems are available in the Reception Centre Kit. 


** Supplies of Emergency Lodging forms can be produced locally 
ahead of time by photocopying the suggested form. 


23 


Emergency Clothing Service 


5. Location of Kits 


A limited number of Reception Centre kits are 
strategically located throughout the country. Should an 
emergency occur, provincial authorities may obtain and 
use them in accordance with existing arrangements 
respecting federally owned equipment. 


Provincial Emergency Social Services directors may 
obtain one Reception Centre kit to be used for 
demonstration, display and training purposes. Further 
information regarding supplies and equipment may be 
obtained by writing to the Provincial Emergency Social 
Services division. 


24 


Emergency Clothing Service 


yWwsaA 


HLNOW Ava 


UNIdd 3SW31d) Y3QHOOSY JO AWN 


ae 


a 


SMYVWSEY / NANVL NOILOV 


NOILVNLIS JO NOILdIY9S3d0 


OL 


WOuSs 


ay 


Q Xlanaddv 


ALIS mf 


9071 SNOILVYAdO 
ONIHLO1D AONADYAWA 


DS 


Emergency Clothing Service 


y 


4 


4 
(a}eq pue ewen) ey, 


d1va SWVN 
salvddn Q3131dNO9 ASAYNS 
— 
Nes :SINSNWOO/ 
‘dd -G3Ssnosid 
{e) 
nO) aC) NO LNaWaauoV ie eC) NOILWSNadWO9 
ONIHLO19D 
YVSMLOOS | HYOM | ONIGG3S9 SLSYANVIE | SLNV4ANI silo SAOd NSWOM | NAW 
WIOLS Ni LNNOWV 
yeal- O s}eJOpOW - W eus- gs << ALILNWNO 
MIOLS NI ONIHLOTD 
(sseursng) (ewopH) (sseursng) (@woH) 
| Jequinn euoydeje 1) Jequiny euoydejo | Jequinn eucydeye 1 Jequiny euoydeje) Jequinn xe4 Joquiny euoydaje 1 
‘| 

@pod |E}SOd @OUIAOId abej|\IA 10 UMOL ‘AID Epos |e}sod GOUIADI eaBejjiA 10 UMOL ‘AID e@pod je}sod BOUIADIg abe, 10 uUMOL ‘AID 

Le (eens ‘kequinn) SSayadv (eens ‘sequinn) SSayadv (jeens sequin) ssayadw 
KS (eweN) SLYNY3SL TV LOVLNOS 40 AWVN LATLNO SNIHLO19 4O awn / 

qQuoosy ASAYNS 
J XlaNadav ONIHLOID AODNADYAWA 


26 


Emergency Clothing Service 


City of Edmonton Disaster Service 
Social Services Department 


Blankets and Clothing Supplier 


Organization Name 


The Bay 

10230 Jasper Avenue 
Edmonton, Alberta 
Siva 


Contact Names 


R. Pickford, 
Operations Manager 


N. Walker, 
Loss Prevention Manager 


Cx Yates; 
Southgate Store Manager 


Edmonton Social Service Contact 
Margaret Dewhurst 


Emergency Services 
Control Room 


Supplies Available and Time Lines 


Clothing or home furnishings needs as carried by the store...2...3 hours lead time. 


Additional Information 
Payment through City of Edmonton "L" Requisition 
City of Edmonton Signing Authority 


Name: Margaret Dewhurst (Mrs) 


Title: Director of Personnel and Support Services 


Signed as correct: 


Supplier 


Appendix F 
Phone 

Business Residence 

424-0121 438-1234 

424-0121 429-5670 

435-92 1 438-9012 

428-5928 435-3456 

428-7990 

Date 


oy 


Emergency Clothing Service 


- 


« » VS0S-199 e100" ssouel4 


TIN 


ye9lIH - 


a}eJOpoW - W 


IEWS- S$ 


sjequinu auoyde|e} ewioH] , , 


yooys ul AQueND 


TIN iS) Ss 


= 


L8ec-evl 

OUeJUO ‘EMEVO 
peoy puoWyoly 6EL 
INEd 8P JUBDUIA-JS 


» ¥ OCOE-ZEL dieys aibbew 
« ¥ OVOP-6ZZ SWIS eule107 


W TIN 


TIN 


TIN IN IN 


TIN 


IN 


OvO-Erl 

OLEJUC ‘eEMEYO 

peoy PUOWYIIY 676 
910} BuiyjyojD s,eyueqoy 


» » 6€6S-178 ey euNr 
» » OCOS-EEZ Jesei4 Apuy 


5 TIN 


TIN 


TIN TIN TIN 


IN 


TIN 


TIN 


9ElLb-628 

OLEJUC ‘BMEPO 
enuery Auoujuy ¢Ze6 
2101S 90us s,Apuy 


» » 8666-PE8 UEWIOY II1G 
~ « 8C8S-PEB UIPEW 21) 


= 
y86E-628 

oueJUuO ‘eMeVO 

anuaary Bull OLOE 
aujuad s}YyBieH pja!4 ujooury 
B10}S ODJOONA 


« » CETE-GQLB SUI|[OD BOF 
« » LVSGO-CEB UOIAWED U0G 


y80€-628 

OLeJUC ‘EMERO 

enuany Bulyied 000Z 

a13U8D Buiddoys poombuljied 
$leas 


«x x 960S-EvL UuOd}S8jJq ENS 
» » ©60C2-628 JSEM UOY 


i 


LE Le-678 

oOleJUC ‘EMEYO 

anusayy Bulied 0007 

ajjuad Buiddoys poombulped 
$19||9Z 


“| 


SY3d10H Asay 


SSHLO19 
MYOM 


SLAYNV1E 


S| 


SNIGGsaS | SLNVSNI STdID 


SAO 


NSWOM 


NAW 


SNOSUY3d LOVLNOO 


» HOOLS NI SAlddNS ONIHLOT9 


YalNddNs ONIHLOTS 


JequNN euoydaje | 
ssoippy pue awey 


©) XIGNaddv 


1SSM VMVLLO - LOIYLSIG GOOMONITEV9 


AYOLOAYICG ADYNOSSAY ONIHLOTD AONSADYSAWS 


28 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Appendix H 


Emergency Clothing Directory Update* 


Dear: 


The Province of introduced the 
Emergency Measures Act in (year). As required by that 
Act, the (name of municipality) Emergency Social 
Services, along with a number of other government and 
community agencies located in this municipality (or 
region), have been actively involved in formulating an 
Emergency Response Plan for the municipality. 


The preparation of an Emergency Clothing Directory is 
integral to this plan. People forced to leave or those 
stranded from their homes due to natural or 
technological disasters may be faced with the basic need 
for emergency covering or clothing. 


To meet this need, your retail outlet has been included in 
our emergency plan as a potential emergency clothing 
source. 


Prior to developing the Emergency Clothing Directory, 
Emergency Clothing Service personnel contacted retail 
clothing outlets, social service outlets or their 
representatives. Contact persons were informed of the 
purpose of the region’s emergency measures plan. 
Information pertaining to clothing available was then 
gathered with the aim of identifying the critical clothing 
resources available in this community. 


Retail outlets selected by this process were then listed in 
the Emergency Clothing Directory. 


To ensure that information about each clothing outlet 
remains accurate and up-to-date, the Emergency 
Clothing Services mails out, in October of each year, a 
photocopy of the latest Emergency Clothing Service 
Record on file. Enclosed is the Survey Record of your 
clothing outlet for your review and verification as to 
currency. 


Within the next two weeks, please verify the attached 
Survey Record, correct it if necessary, and return it 
in the envelope provided. 


Please note that your reply will be understood by the 
Emergency Clothing Service as an acknowledgement 
of your willingness to continue to provide emergency 
clothing should you be called upon. 


If you should have any questions regarding any of the 
above, do not hesitate to contact 
at 


Your interest, co-operation and efforts in assisting the 
Emergency Social Services is 


greatly appreciated. 


Yours truly, 


Bill Jones, 
Commissioner of Social Services. 


sbb 


* — Adapted from: Hamilton-Wentworth Emergency Social Service 


manual. 


ue 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Appendix I 


Emergency Preparedness — Checklist 


In the event of a major disaster — flood, fire, tornado, 
earthquake, hurricane, winter storm, toxic leak — basic 
supplies and services may not be available or you may 
have to evacuate your residence or community. You may 
not have much time to act. Prepare now to protect 
yourself and your family for a sudden emergency. 


Prepare an Emergency Pack 


An emergency pack consists of such essential items as 
water, food, clothing and first aid supplies tor 3 to 5 
days that are set aside in easy-to-carry containers, ready 
to take with you. Your emergency pack should include 
the following items: 


Water 


Water is essential for survival. Plan on a minimum of 
one litre per person per day for drinking purposes only. 
Store water in unbreakable containers such as plastic 
bottles. Record storage date and replace every six 
months. 


Food 


Choose foods that require no refrigeration, cooking or 
preparation, are compact and lightweight, and familiar 
to users. If food must be cooked, include stove and fuel. 


e Ready-to-eat canned meals: stews, baked beans, 
spaghetti, meat, fish, poultry, fruits, vegetables, 
cereals, trail mix, oatmeal cookies, candies or jellies 

e Canned milk, juices, coffee, tea 

e Staples such as sugar, salt, pepper 

e Baby formula, food and diapers 

e Cutlery, non-electric can opener 


Clothing and Bedding 


The secret of protection from extreme cold lies in 
wearing multiple layers of clothing which prevent the 
loss of body heat. Most of the body’s heat is lost 
through the head and neck. During the summer, provide 
protection against sun and heat. 


e Include one change of clothing and footwear per 
person 

e Sweaters, woollen socks, tuque or hat, scarf, mittens, 
and thermal underwear 

e Rain gear 

Sturdy, waterproof shoes or boots 

e Sleeping bag or two warm blankets per person 


First Aid Kit 


e¢ Keep a complete first aid kit in your home and car 

e Include over-the-counter medications such as aspirin 
or non-aspirin pain reliever, antiseptic, etc. List of 
family physicians, style and serial number of medical 
devices such as pacemakers 

e Be sure to take prescribed medications such as heart 
and high blood pressure medication, insulin etc., with 
you when you evacuate 

e Denture needs, contact lens, hearing aids, mobility 
aids 

e Basic first-aid manual 


Supplies and Tools 


Battery operated transistor radio, extra batteries 
Candles and candle holders 

Flashlight (one per person), extra batteries 
Hammer and nails, crowbar 

Lantern and fuel 

Matches (in waterproof container) 

Mosquito repellent 

Plastic sheeting 

Pliers 


30 


Emergency Clothing Service 


e Pocket knife 
e Rope 

e Shovel (small) 
e Tape 

e Whistle 


Sanitation 


e Toilet paper, wet ones, facial tissues, liquid detergent 


e Personal items: soap, shampoo, deodorant, toothpaste, 


toothbrushes, sanitary napkins and tampons, towels 
and face cloth, comb and brush, lip balm 
e Plastic garbage bags and ties 


Special Items 


e Cards, games and books 
e¢ Colouring books 


Family Records and Documents 


Store important family documents and records in 
waterproof container 


e Will, insurance policies, contracts, deeds, stocks and 
bonds 

e Passports, social insurance cards, health cards, 

immunization records 

Money or cash 

Savings and checking account numbers 

Credit card account numbers and companies 

Important telephone numbers 

Family records (birth, marriage, death certificates) 


Prepare an Emergency Car Kit 


Battery powered radio and extra batteries 
Blanket 

Booster cables 

First aid kit and manual 

Fire extinguisher (2A-IOBC type) 

Flares or reflectors 

Flashlight and extra batteries 

Food: non perishable high energy foods such as 
granola bars, raisins, etc. 

Maps 

Shovel 

Tire repair kit and pump 

Water 


People with Special Needs 


REGISTER IN ADVANCE. In case of evacuation, some 
people may require transportation assistance to 
Reception Centres or Group Lodging Facilities. People 
who require this help may have a physical, neurological 
or psychological disability or have mobility problems. 
Persons who are unable to respond independently to an 
emergency situation which requires them to evacuate 
their home should register in advance for assistance with 
a homecare program, local seniors organization or 
emergency measures organization. 


SOME HEALTH CARE PATIENTS. Persons who receive 
home health care should discuss emergency plans with 
their caregiver or home care agency. Persons should also 
check with their physician if prior arrangements would 
be necessary for evacuation to a hospital. 


ELECTRICAL LIFE SUPPORT. If a member of the 
household is bedridden and requires constant medical 
care or has electrical life support equipment at home, 
discuss this NOW with his physician or local emergency 
measures organization. 


Family Emergency Plan 


If a major disaster strikes your community, you may be 
separated from members of your family who are at 
home, at work, or at school. If your family should 
become separated in a disaster, here are some suggested 
measures that you can take to help reunite them: 


e Identify ahead of time two family meeting places: one 
outside your home in case of fire and one outside your 
neighbourhood in case of disaster. 

e Decide ahead of time on a system of communication. 
Pick one out of province and one local friend or 
relative for family members to call if separated 
because of a disaster. It is often easier to call out of 
province than within the affected area. 

e All members of your family should have a means of 
identification on them at all times: e.g., clothing label, 
wallet card, bracelet with name and address. 

e Take a basic first aid and CPR class. 

e Involve all family members in planning for an 
emergency. 

e Test your plan. Chances of survival are improved if 
you practise your plan. 


aul 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Pets 


Pets may not be allowed in Reception Centres or Group 
Lodging Facilities for health and space reasons. If you 
must leave them behind: 


e Prepare an emergency pen for the pets in the home. 
Ensure there is adequate ventilation. 

e Tag your pet with proper identification and 
inoculation information. 

e Arrange a layer of plastic and paper or cardboard for 
the pet. 

e Leave enough dry food and water for three days. 

¢ Do not leave pets in a car outside of a shelter. 


Adapted from: 


Are You Prepared in Case of Disaster? 
Health and Welfare Canada. Reprinted 1992. 


Self Help Advice 
Emergency Preparedness Canada, 1988. 


Federal Emergency Management Agency 
U.S.A. Background and Fact Sheets. 


Hurricane Counselling Center, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
Dade County (Florida) Hurricane Evacuation Plan 
Summary. 1992. 


a2, 


Emergency Clothing Service 


Appendix J 


Emergency Kit — Evacuation Checklist 


Water 


Food 


Clothing 


| litre per person per day for drinking 


Water purification tablets 


Canned meals: stews, baked beans, spaghetti, meat, fish, poultry, fruits, 
vegetables, cereals, trail mix, oatmeal cookies, candies or jellies 


Canned milk, juices, coffee, tea 
Staples such as sugar, salt, pepper 
Baby formula, food and diapers 
Cutlery, non-electric can opener 


Stove and fuel 


Sweaters, woollen socks, tuque or hat, scarf, mittens, and thermal underwear 
Rain gear 
Sturdy, waterproof shoes or boots 


Sleeping bag or two warm blankets per person 


First Aid Kit and Manual, Medication 


Supplies and Tools 


Sanitation 


Battery operated transistor radio, extra batteries Plastic sheeting 


Pliers 
Pocket knife 


Candles and candle holders 


Flashlight (one per person), extra batteries 


Hammer and nails, crowbar Rope 


Lantern and fuel Shovel (small) 


Matches (waterproof container) Tape 
Whistle 


Colouring books 


Cards, games, books 


WU 


Mosquito repellent 


Toilet paper, wet ones, facial tissues, liquid detergent 


Personal items: soap, shampoo, deodorant, toothpaste, toothbrushes, 
sanitary napkins and tampons, towels and face cloth, comb and 
brush, lip balms 


Plastic garbage bags and ties 


Family Records and Documents 


LIL 


| 


WI UUUUUOOU OU UUW UU 


LJ Ld 


33 


