ahhh, 


etatatal 
aa a 

= of 

Parliament 


Bibliotheque 
- du Parlement 


Background Paper BP-245E 


POPULATION, FOOD AND DEBT: 
THE CHALLENGES TO NORTH AND SOUTH 


Gerald Schmitz 
Political and Social Affairs Division 


April 1989 


Research 
Branch 


The Research Branch of the Library of Parliament works 
exclusively for Parliament, conducting research and providing 
information for Committees and Members of the Senate and the 
House of Commons. This service is extended without partisan 


bias in such forms as Reports, Background Papers and Issue > 
Reviews. Research Officers in the Branch are also available for 
personal consultation in their respective fields of expertise. 


© Minister of Supply and Services Canada 1991 
Cat. No. YM32-2/245E 
ISBN 0-660-13919-7 


CE DOCUMENT EST AUSSI 
PUBLIE EN FRANGAIS 


CANADA 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


POPULATION, FOOD AND DEBT: 
THE CHALLENGES TO NORTH AND SOUTH 


THE DEBATE OVER DEVELOPMENT 


The present world order contains many continuing contradic- 
tions. Human knowledge, wealth, and expertise seem to be increasing more 
rapidly with every generation. The technical means are within our grasp to 
solve or at least alleviate many problems which have afflicted people 
throughout history. At the same time, the biosphere and its occupants, the 
human family, face new threats ranging from the possibility of nuclear 
destruction to environmental contamination and climatic change to diseases 
such as AIDS. In addition to these new challenges, the reality is that a 
large portion of humanity has received very little of the benefits from the 
impressive march of modern progress. Hundreds of millions of people still 
live in conditions of absolute poverty; often they are trapped in situa- 
tions where there is only minimal respect for human rights -- including the 
most basic of all, the right to life. There are still countries which 
appear unable to feed and house exploding populations. Famine and hunger 
have not been eliminated despite a growing world food supply. Many 
developing countries are seeing their economic welfare squeezed by a huge 
burden of debt owed to foreign creditors. 

The presence of so much underdevelopment and maldevelopment 
in the world has led to a critical re-evaluation of many development 
"models," and to an ongoing search for rational and practical solutions to 
the persistent problems of development: problems of too many people who 
are poor, malnourished, and perhaps hostage to a debt crisis which they 
neither control nor comprehend. Canada has earned respect as a development 
partner in the third World and has recently reviewed its own international 
development assistance policies and programs. But achieving sustainable 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


2 


development will obviously require as well much broader efforts in bringing 
together industrialized countries of the North and developing countries of 


the South in ways which deliver concrete benefits to those most in need. 


THE CHALLENGE OF WORLD POPULATION 


Ever since the gloomy predictions of Thomas Malthus at the 
end of the eighteenth century, there have been fears that exponential rates 
of population growth would inevitable overtake the earth's capacity to 
produce enough food and result in widespread starvation. Despite the 
recurrence of local famines and food shortages, which typically involve 
many factors other than population density, these fears have probably 
abated somewhat in recent years. According to current World Bank 
projections, the global population is expected to reach approximately 6.2 
billion by the year 2000 and 8.5 billion by 2025. This compares with the 
alarming prediction in Paul Ehlrich's 1968 book The Population Bomb that 
world population would be 10 billion in the year 2000. | 

The fact that the overall rate of world population growth 
has slowed is no reason for complacency, however. Growth rates of 
industrializd countries have typically stabilized and in some cases fallen 
below replacement levels. By contrast, in many of the poorest developing 
countries population growth remains extremely high. The global picture is 
sharply divided (see Table 1), with almost all of the population increase 
occurring in Asia and the rapid growth regions of Africa and Latin 
America. Within the Third World itself, there are wide divergences in 
population trends. For example, between 1960 and 1987 the following 
countries -- Singapore, Taiwan, South Korea, Cuba, China, Columbia, Costa 
Rica -- achieved declines in fertility rates (i.e., the average number of 
children per woman) of greater than 50%. The fertility rates for these 
countries in 1987 ranged from 1.6 in Singapore to 3.5 in Costa Rica, with 
the unweighted average being 2.3. Countries with very high fertility rates 
in 1987 included: Kenya, Afghanistan, Jordan, Tanzania, Zambia, Saudi 
Arabia, Ethiopia, and Zimbabwe. The unweighted average of fertility rates 


for these countries was 7.2, with a range from 8.0 in Kenya to 6.5 in 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


3 


Table i 


World Population Growth by Geographic Region, 1986 


Population Annual 
Region Population Growth Rate Increment 
(million) (percent) (million) 


Slow Growth Regions 


Western Europe . 381 0.2 0.8 
North America 267 ad heats 
E. Eur. and Soviet Union 392 028 S19) 
Australia and New Zealand 19 0.8 OF? 
East Asia! 1263 1.0 1236 
Total 2322 0.8 Tomo 
Rapid Growth Regions 
Southeast Asia’ 414 202 1 
Latin America 419 273 9.6 
Indian subcontinent O27 2:4 24.6 
Middle East 178 Zas S46) 
Africa 583 226 foes 
Total Znoz | eas) 64.6 


1 Principally China and Japan. 
2 Principally Burma, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. 


Source: Lester Brown and Jodi Jacobsen, Our Demographically Divided World, 
Worldwatch Paper 74, Washington, D.C., December 1986, p. 8. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


4 


Zimbabwe . (1) In general, large declines in fertility levels are 
associated with economic advancement and successful family planning 
policies. Population growth rates are highest where fertility levels have 
remained high even though death rates have fallen substantially. Ina few 
countries with high fertility rates (e.g., Afghanistan and Ethiopia), 
growth rates have been slowed because of high mortality rates due to recent 
crises. 

The two most populous developing countries, China and India, 
together account for nearly 40% of the world's population and for over half 
of annual population growth. China's population is now 1.1 billion and 
India's is about 800 million. However, China's growth rate has slowed to 
1.4% a year compared to India's 1.95%, so by the middle of the next century 
India's population could surpass that of China. In both countries attempts 
to induce slower population growth rates have provoked strong controver- 
Ssies. China's "one child per family" policy introduced in 1979 appears to 
involve some coercion, including such measures as fines for "unauthorized" 
children, mandatory use of intra-uterine devices, and forced abortions. 
Still, the Chinese government recently admitted that its target of limiting 
population to 1.2 billion by the year 2000 would be exceeded by 100 million 
if present trends continue. In India, coercive methods, in particular 
aggressive sterilization programs, were reported during 1975-77, but 
popular reaction against these extreme measures contributed to Indira 
Gandhi's 1977 electoral defeat. 

"Excessive" population growth rates are almost exclusively a 
problem of poor and underdeveloped societies. In rural areas especially, 
women's traditional work patterns combine work and child rearing. At a 
very early age children are an important source of earnings for low- 
income families. High rates of infant and child mortality are additional 
reasons for women to want to bear more children -- to ensure that some live 
to adulthood. UNICEF's 1989 report, The State of the World's Children, 
(Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1989) estimates there were 14 million 


preventable deaths of children in 1988. Together with such chilling 


(1) See tables in Jodi L. Jacobsen, Planning the Global Family, Worldwatch 
Paper 80, Washington, D.C., December 1987, p. 8 and 10. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


5 


statistics are the facts that poor developing countries have by far the 
highest ratio of children to adults. 

Without adequate social security programs parents are forced 
to depend on their children in times of illness or disability and in old 
age. In societies with limited options for women, early marriage and 
childbearing may be the only way young women can gain status. Furthermore, 
a preference for sons in some cultures encourages couples to have several 
children in order to produce a male child. Finally, lack of information 
about and access to effective birth control can be a determining factor in 
family size. | 

The consequences of unplanned rapid population growth in 
poor countries, can be severe -- for individuals, families, communities, 
governments, and the environment. High growth rates can reduce already low 
per capita household savings, and be accompanied by high rates of child and 
maternal mortality and morbidity from poor nutrition and sanitation. They 
may result in large numbers of young people seeking too few jobs, a 
depression of wage levels, mass migrations to urban centres with spreading 
slums, and a general overburden on support systems, community and 
government services. The stress of rising population can also place great 
pressure on food supplies, agricultural land, water, forests, and other 
natural resources. 

the "carrying capacity" of the biosphere has been debated 
Since the last century and not surprisingly the predictions vary enormously 
(see Table 2). It is apparent, however, that "overpopulation" is not a 
simple function of high population densities. The instances of mass 
starvation in recent decades have occurred in the vast rural regions of 
Africa and Asia, not in Hong Kong, Japan, or New York City. Many countries 
of the South have mistrusted the North's concern about their population 
growth, and the emphasis put on family planning to control burgeoning 
numbers of poor people. The problem, these countries have argued, was not 
population per se but global poverty and injustice. As living standards 
rose, population would take care of itself. At the first World Population 
Conference held under UN auspices in Bucharest in 1974, the slogan was 
"development is the best contraceptive." 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


6 


Table 2 


Some Estimates of the Maximum Number of People the World Could Support 


Ratio of Maximum 
Number to 


Authority Millions Present Number 
De facto population (1980) 4,414 

Ravenstein (1871) 6,000 1.4 
Penck (1925) 16,000 B20 
Brown, Bonner and Weir (1957) 7,000 .6 
Clark (1967) low estimate 47,000 1007 
Clark (1967) high estimate 150,000 5309 
De Wit (1967 146,000 3350 
Buringh and Van Heemst (1972) 6,700 iv5 
Lieth (1972) 100,000 2257 
Revelle (1976) 40,000 oot 
Eyre (1978) 17,000 4.1 
Gilland (1983) 7,500 oe | 


Source: Sir Kenneth Blaxter, People, Food and Resources Cambridge 


Univer- 


sity Press, Cambridge, 1986, Table 20, p. 90. 


In the years since then the debate over population control 
has shifted ground to some extent. On the part of the North there is a 
greater appreication of the need to support economic developoment, and in 
particular to boost food production, in the poorest regions. For their 
part, developing countries have become more realistic and "cognizant of the 
need for and value of comprehensive family planning programs." This was 
apparent during the second World Population Conference in Mexico City in 
1984 when virtually all governments "accepted the need to achieve 


population stabilization." The Mexico City declaration referred to 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


7 


"inextricable links between population, resources, environment and 
development. " (2) 

There seems to be an emerging consensus that a slower, more 
deliberate rate of population growth in the developing world is desirable 
as an adjunct to progress on other development fronts. However, in the 
1980s it is also the case that "slower economic growth in developing 
countries plagued by debt, dwindling exports and environmental degradation, 
means that governments can no longer rely on socioeconomic gains to help 
reduce births."(3) These countries have had at least to lower their 
expectations, at a time when world population continues to record its 
largest ever annual increases. At the same time, the experience of the 
past few decades strongly suggests that direct population control programs 
will not work unless they are culturally sensitive and developed in 
conjunction with efforts towards positive social change. Religious customs 
and traditional kinship relationships, which usually support pronatal 
attitudes, must be taken into account. Fertility rates are likely to 
remain high where women's education and employment opportunities are 
restricted to family or female-based activities. Indeed, enhancing the 
social status of women is a key element of sociocultural change leading to 
smaller families and to sustainable patterns of population development. 
Economic growth in some aggregate sense, even with a return to more 
favourable conditions than most development countries now face, is not 


enough. 


THE CHALLENGE OF WORLD HUNGER 


In this century, famines and chronic hunger have caused 
millions of deaths, rivalling the casualty figures of major wars. Although 
droughts and natural disasters have often played a role in extreme food 


shortages, it is also apparent that in some cases (e.g., the Ukrainian 


(2) Cf. Gregory Wirick, World Population: Continuing Challenges, The 
North-South Institute, Briefing Paper No. 11, Ottawa, November 1985, 
Dimi. 


(3) Jacobsen (1987), p. 5. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


8 


famine of the 1930s, the African famines of the 1980s) man-made factors, 
including political ideology and civil and international conflict, have 
been at work. In the Bangladesh famine of 1974, the manipulation and 
maldistribution of the food supply and the distortion of food and 
agricultural markets in a climate of political uncertainty were more 
important (and preventable) causes of mortality from hunger than any actual 
failure of food production. (4) In short, the challenge of hunger is not 
usually just a matter of too many people and not enough food. 

Many development theorists have observed that, despite local 
and regional problems of agricultural production, more than enough food is 
still grown in the world each year to ensure everyone an adequate diet -- 
if the marketing and distribution systems, both public and private, 
national and international, were in place to achieve that result. Ina 


recent book, Keith Griffin persuasively argues two propositions: 


First, there is no world food problem, but there is a 
problem of hunger in the world. Food and hunger are, 
of course, related and it is tempting to argue that an 
increase in food output will lead to a reduction in 
hunger, malnutrition and starvation; alas, the 
connection is not so straightforward or simple. Indeed 
many cases can be found in which hunger increased, or 
failed to diminish, despite a rise in food supplies per 
head. 


Second, even if there were a direct connection between 
the availability of food and the incidence of hunger, 
it does not follow that each region or country or 
continent should aim to be self-sufficient in basic 
foodstuffs. Presumably, nobody would suggest that the 
city-states of Hong Kong and Singapore would be better 
off or better fed if they produced fewer manufactured 
goods and more rice; or that Saudi Arabia and Botswana 
should switch from oil and mineral extraction to 
farming; or even, perhaps that Cuba should reduce its 
production of sugar and concentrate on growing more 
cereals and beans. What matters in countries such as 
these, as far as the average is concerned, is the 
resource endowment people enjoy, the opportunities that 
exist for profitable international trade and the 


(4) See both Amartya Sen, Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Entitlement 
and Deprivation, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1981; and Martin Ravallion, 
Markets and Famines, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1987. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


9 


overall rate of growth of domestic product per 
head. (5) 


The relationship of hunger to income and economic welfare is 
perhaps most striking, and anomalous, in affluent societies which have 
large, efficient agricultural sectors and which are major food exporters. 
The 1980s have seen the growth of "food banks" in many areas of the United 
States and Canada. The fact that some low-income families would go hungry 
without the efforts of these agencies can clearly not be blamed on over- 
population or any incapacity of North American farmers to produce food in 
sufficient volume. It is easy to see how in developing countries with 
fewer resource advantages and greater population burdens the situation can 
be much more dire. This is especially true in emergency situations, 
whether caused by acts of God or man, or both. In such situations outside 
food relief may be the only solution in the short term. But chronic hunger 
and malnutrition are another matter, which presents a more serious politi- 
cal problem because it is frequently linked to inequalities and imbalances 
which may be deeply embedded in the social system. As Griffin puts it: 


Anyone who has thought about the matter knows that 
hunger is not distributed evenly or randomly throughout 
a society; it is largely (but not exclusively) a rural 
phenomenon and within the rural areas is concentrated 
among the poor. That is, hunger tends to be associated 
with particular classes and occupational groups: land- 
less agricultural labourers, small tenant cultivators, 
deficit farmers with too little land to be self- 
sufficient and who consequently must supplement their 
income with part-time off-farm jobs, pastoralists 
living on or beyond the fringes of the arable land, and 
fishermen and petty artisans supplying traditional 
goods and services in traditional ways. 


The fundamental cause of hunger, then, is the poverty 
of specific groups of people, not a general shortage of 
food. In simple terms, what distinguishes the poor 
from others is that they do not have sufficient 
purchasing power or effective demand to enable them to 
acquire enough to eat. More generally, the heart of 
the problem is the relationship of particular groups of 
people to food, not food itself. This relationship is 


(5) Keith Griffin, World Hunger and the World Economy, The Macmillan 
Press, Houndmills, England, 1987, p. 1. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


10 


governed by what Amartya Sen calls “entitlement 
systems," that is, the set of relations embodied in a 
society's laws, customs and conventions that determines 
the ability of people to command food. (6) 


To eliminate world hunger and to realize food security as a 


human right probably will require fundamental social changes in many 
countries and in the relations between North and South. heh Nonetheless, 
promoting sound food and agricultural development in developing countries 


must continue to be an immediate priority complementing the search for 


longer term solutions. 


Because of the momentum of population growth, it is 
certain that the numbers of people in the world will 
increase, even if, suddenly, family size limitation 
became universal. Even if population did not augment, 
the evidence of overt malnutrition in many of the 
developing countries shows that there is a need for 
more food of higher quality. The real need is even 
greater than this for population will increase. 
Because of urbanisation, desertification and the 
deterioration of many irrigation systems it is certain 
that present farm land is being inexorably eroded and 
its future expansion will necessarily mean farming ina 
less favourable environment than hitherto and at the 
expense of natural resources of forest and natural 
grazings. It is also quite certain that there is a 
large gap between the average yields obtained in 
various countries and those which represent the 
potential of the crops concerned; it equally appears 
that these potentials will be static for many years to 
come. There is no doubt that yields of food could be 
increased; at present, however, it appears that to do 
so involves the use of large inputs from outside the 
farm, inputs which involve the expenditure of support 
energy, mostly derived from fossil sources. (g) 


It is extremely worrisome that, as Table 3 and Chart 1 show, 


food production increases in recent decades have varied inversely with 


increased population pressures. According to the analysis by Lester Brown: 


(6) 
(7) 


(8) 


IbDidee pest 


The right to food is already recognized, if only in theory, in 
existing international human rights instruments. See Asbjorn Eide, et 
al., eds, Food as a Human Right, The United Nations University, Tokyo, 
1984. 


Sir Kenneth Blaxter, People, Food and Resources, Cambridge eee 
Press, Cambridge, 1986. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE OU PARLEMENT 


Ma 


Table 3 


Growth rates (% per annum) of population and food supply 
in certain regions of the world 


1952-60 1961-70 1971-80 
Popu- Food Popu- Food Popu- Food 
Region lation supply lation supply lation supply 
Developed countries 1.3 3.2 int 2.6 0.8 1.9 
Africa zee 2.8 2.5 2.6 2.9 1.8 
Latin America 2.8 Ge 2.9 3.5 27, 3.9 
Asia 2.6 3.4 202 27" 2.0 3.2 


Per capita food supply 


Developed countries +1.9 +1.5 ples 
Africa +0.6 +0.1 =e 
Latin America +0.4 +0.6 +11 
Asia +1.4 +0.5 me 


Source: Blaxter (1986), Table 5, p. 46. 


Chart 1 
Per Capita Grain Production, Western Europe and Africa, 1950-87 
Kilograms 
600 
Source: USDA 
500 Western 
Europe 
400 
300 
200 
V7 Africa 

100 

0 

1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 


Source: Lester Brown, The Changing World Food Prospect: The Nineties and 
Beyond, Worldwatch Paper 85, Washington, D.C. October 1988, 
Pagure=s2,°p- 10. 


Third World (e.g., 
farm productivity. 


Africa in general, 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


12 


The principal determinant of whether food production 
per person is rising or declining in the various 
geographic regions is the differential rate of 
population growth. Where the population growth is 
slowest, Western Europe, per capita food production is 


rising most rapidly. In the two regions where 
population growth is fastest, Africa and Latin America, 
it is declining. ... Over the past 38 years, total 


grain output in Western Europe has increased 2.6-fold, 
and in Africa 2.2-fold. As a result, in Western 
Europe, where population growth is negligible, per 
capita output has more than doubled. But in Africa, 
whose population expands at a record 3% annually, 
output per capita has been falling since peaking in 
1967. (9) 


The introduction of modern "green revolution" technologies 
has helped to make food self-sufficiency possible in some parts of the 
the Indian subcontinent) by boosting crop yields and 
But this is a revolution that has least benefited 


landless least of all. According to Edward C. Wolf: 


(9) 


Lester Brown, The Changing World Food Prospects: 
Beyond, Worldwatch Paper 85, Washington, D.C. October 1988, p. 15. 
is worth noting as well that while debt-burdened Third World countries 
are less able to purchase food to make up for domestic shortfalls, 
Western Europe's heavily-subsidized food exports are jeopardizing the 
The “oversupply" of commodities such as 
grain on international markets is blamed for driving down prices at 
the same time as millions of people go without. 


incomes of Canadian farmers. 


Few of Africa's 50 million rural families grow wheat or 
rice, and only in the last decade have researchers 
turned their attention to millet, sorghum, cassava, 
yams, and cowpeas that are the subsistence staples of 
most rural Africans. Only 6% of sub-Saharan Africa's 
wheat and rice area is planted to modern varieties. 


[It is estimated that 230 million households in the 
South] ... use farming methods almost identical to 
those of their ancestors. One reason is energy. Past 
advances have come from increasing the energy intensity 
of farming: fuel to run machinery, fossil-fuel-based 
artificial fertilizers, and diesel fuel or electricity 


to run irrigation pumps. Few of the rural poor can 


afford these costly materials and services. Even if 
they had the income to purchase such inputs, many 


small peasant farmers in particular, and the rural 


The Nineties and 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


1s} 


farmers are not served by roads or markets that could 
reliably supply them. (10) 

Lack of proper storage facilities is another common 
problem. Furthermore, one must distinguish between increases in gross 
agricultural output and adequate local supplies of healthy food at prices 
the poor can afford. It is a fact that some developing countries where 
hunger remains a serious problem are at the same time significant exporters 
of food to richer Northern markets. Land and resources are extensively 
used for cash crops and the production of protein-rich animal products 
destined for foreign consumption. 

Agricultural development and trade have not benefited 
everyone equally: indeed, they have sometimes made life more difficult for 
those who are poor and politically weak.(11) as well, for a long time 
governments in many developing countries neglected their agricultural base 
and rural poor. Farmers had few incentives to produce more food, and the 
countryside was often simply squeezed to provide capital for other 
purposes, or increasingly to help service crushing foreign debts. 
Obstacles to necessary land reform have also condemned millions to a 
marginal existence. While food-producing potential is lost or unrealized, 
countries can find themselves becoming more dependent on food imports and 
food aid. Under these circumstances there is no technological quick fix, 
and "for Third World farmers who never shared in the agricultural advances 
of the green revolution, the issue is economic survival." (12) 

Tackling the hunger problem means addressing the ability of 
the poor to buy food and reorienting agricultural investment, distribution 
systems, research and donor assistance to better serve the needs of rural 
smallholders. It also means finding environmentally appropriate and 
sustainable models of agricultural development. There are innovative 


projects being sponsored by networks such as the Consultative Group on 


(10) Edward C. Wolf, Beyond the Green Revolution: New Approaches for Third 
World Agriculture, Worldwatch Paper 73, Washington, D.C., October 
1986, p. 7-15. 


(11) See the examples given by Griffin (1987), p. 8-9; also George Kent, 
The Political Economy of Hunger, Praeger Publishers, New York, 1984. 


CI2)SWOLES( L986 )ye pp. Sort. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


14 


International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), lending institutions such as 
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and agencies 
such as Canada's own International Development Research Centre (IDRC). 
Canada has been a leading contributor to food and agricultural programs and 
was encouraged to do more by a 1987 parliamentary committee report. (13) 
But as that report also observed, projects and programs, however 
meritorious they may be in themselves, cannot be expected to turn things 
around without commensurate reforms within countries, in government 


policies and in international systems. 


THE CHALLENGE OF INTERNATIONAL DEBT 


At one time or another nearly all countries have experienced 
debt problems. Canada imported large amounts of foreign capital to finance 
its own development. After the Second World War, the bankruptcy of major 
European trading partners caused severe balance of payments difficulties in 
Canada. Today, even in the world's richest country, the United States, | 
there are grave concerns about the size of international trade and payments 
deficits. But the U.S. is in no sense in the throes of a debt "crisis." 
Investment continues to flow in to finance these deficits and people still 
want to hold U.S. dollars. By contrast, developing country debtors are not 
so fortunate. Typically, their currencies are weak, their economic 
prospects uncertain at best, and more capital is leaving then entering. 

According to World Bank figures, developing country debt now 
exceeds U.S. $1.3 trillion. The North-South Institute's annual Review/ 
Outlook of January 1989 notes that: "Even though many debtor countries are 
running arrears, the amounts of debt they have managed to pay add up to 


staggering drain of financial resources. Development countries have 


(13) House of Commons Standing Committee on External Affairs and 
International Trade, For Whose Benefit? Report on Canada's Official 
Development Assistance Policies and Programs, Queen's Printer for 
Canada, Ottawa, May 1987. Elements of the government's response are 
contained in the strategy published by the Canadian International 
Development Agency, Sharing Our Future, Minister of Supply and 
Services Canada, Ottawa, 1987. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


GS) 


transferred U.S. $85 billion to developed countries since 1982. In the 
case of the most highly indebted, this translates to more than 2% of their 
gross domestic product in the period." (14) More than half of all Third 
World countries are currently experiencing debt-servicing problems, and of 
these about one-quarter are considered to be highly-indebted. 

Table 4 and Chart 2 give key debt ratios and rankings for 20 
of the most seriously affected debtor nations, and illustrate the financial 
plight of the region, Latin America, which has created the greatest 
headache for Western banks and governments. The data in the table reveal 
wide variations among countries and show that debt is no respecter eje 
ideologies or political and economic systems. The largest debtors include 


both oil importers (Brazil, Argentina) and exporters (Mexico, Venezuela). 


Table 4. Foreign Debt and Debt Ratios of Twenty Most Affected Developing Countries ($U.S. billions) 


Total Debt Service 


Country External Public Debt Total Debt Service as Percentage of 
(Ranking by Size Total Long-Tern Debt as Percentage of GNP as Percentage of GNP Export Earnings 
of Debt in 1980) 1980 1987 (Ranking) 1980 1987 (Ranking) 1980 1987 (Ranking) 1980 1987 (Ranking) 

in 1987 

oe Brain 57.0 106.1 (1) 17.4 29.1 (19) 335 2.4 (18) 34.6 26.7 (5) 
2. Mexico 41.3 96.9 (2) 18.0 5955" (03) 4.2 6.4 (9) Vaolt SoM (3) 
3. Argentina 16.8 50.3 (3) 18.1 61.7 (12) a6 Srl (12) Naty A 8 (1) 
4. Venezuela 14.0 32.7 (4) 18.1 65.3 (10) 5.0 7.4 (5) Wiest 225th (lo) 
5. Chile 9.4 18.0 (8) Nail 90.8 (7) 5.2 8.0 (3) ANS) Bilal Uhl 
6. Philippines 9.0 23.8 (6) 18.5 64.5 (11) Nef 62pee 10) HO ROT (9) 
7. Morocco 8.6 18.8 Gy) 49.0 118.1 (3) 6.8 het (2) ie alot! (7) 
8. Peru 7.4 13.9 (10) 31.3 28.0 (20) 7.6 1.0 (20) Wiss} Tes) alfshy) 
9. Nigeria Doe 26.1 (5) 4.3 109.8 (5) 0.5 Sc3ee cl 1) 8. 1020. #20) 
10. Pakistan 5.1 Vers ap) 37/0 38508 7 (17) Zed 354 eS) Po SSeear ie ee (1S) 
11. Ivory Coast 4.] Olay) aka 43.5 89.5 (8) 8.8 Ves (4) 24.0 19.6 (14) 
12. Colombia 4.6 15.4 (9) W253! 40.8 (16) 1.6 7.0 (6) BC) ae (2) 
13. Ecuador 4.4 9.1 be) 29.6 92.9 1 5.0 5.1 i Wee) Mad (lsh) 
14. Zaire 4.3 7.3 15) 42.9 139.5 1) 3.6 4.7 13) Wic2 Waoey (ale) 
15. Bangladesh se 8.9 (14) allel 50.6 (15) 0.6 1.8 (19) Gs WSs (IG) 
16. Kenya 2.7 5.0 ve 32.6 57.9 ba 3.7 6.5 (8) Wes} AG! (4) 
17. Bolivia os! 4.8 17) 77.0 110.8 (4 10.0 eS (ONG) QS) Pol (V2) 
18. Costa Rica Zek 3.9 (18) 36.8 88.8 (8) 4.5 4.5 (14) No Wa {OIG 
19. Jamaica 1.5 3.6 (19) 57.1 138.9 (2) Bhs Wad! (1) 14.0 25.8 (6) 
20. Zimbabwe 0.7* 2.1 (20) 13.2 36.2 (18) 0.8 6.8 (7) Bo ta (8) 


* This is the total of short-term public debt as Zimbabwe had no significant long-term debt in 1980. 


Source: Compiled from The World Bank, World Debt Tables: External Debt of Developing Countries/1988-89 Edition, 
Washington, 0.C., December 1988, Volume II. Country Tables. 


(14) Review '88/Outlook '89, The Wider World: Challenges for the Second 
Mulroney Mandate, The North-South Institute, Ottawa, January 1989. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE OU PARLEMENT 


16 


Chart 2 


LATIN AMERICA : NET INFLOW OF CAPITAL 
AND NET TRANSFER OF RESOURCES 
(billions of dollars) 


mn | 


0 


t by) Net inflow of capital 
ant eG Net payments of profits and interest 


VA Net transfer of resources 


1970 1974 


Source: Roy Culpepper, Beyond Baker: The Maturing Debt Crisis, Briefing 
Paper No. 18, The North-South Institute, May 1987, Figure 1, p. 6. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


17 


These debtors pose the most risk to international financial stability 
because of the sheer size of their external liabilities and the degree of 
private bank exposure involved. However, in terms of the economy's 
Capacity to service the debt, many smaller countries are actually worse 
off. For example, in 1987 Zaire had the highest ratio of external public 
debt as a percentage of GNP. Jamaica had the highest ratio of debt service 
as a percentage of GNP. 

The critical debt service/exports ratios present a mixed 
picture with no obvious pattern. The two biggest debtors, Brazil and 
Mexico, have in the past relied heavily on state capitalist approaches to 
development. But recent economic liberalization, and democratization in 
the case of Brazil, have not as yet arrested the debt spiral. Chile, like 
Jamaica, has closely followed orthodox free-market prescriptions over the 
course of this decade. But its debt performance is not evidently superior 
to that of Peru's left-wing government which took the extreme step of 
unilaterally limiting the amount of debt service it was prepared to pay. 
Perhaps the only safe generalization is that the magnitude of the debt, and 
the challenge facing both debtors and creditors, has increased 
Significantly since 1980. In Latin America, the graph shows a dramatic 
reversal in net resource transfers since the global recession of 1981. 

The origins of the current debt crisis are usually 
attributed to the commodities boom and subsequent oil “shocks" of the 
1970s. This was when commercial bank lending to the Third World through 
the laissez-faire Euromoney market began to take off. By the end of that 
decade private banks figured prominently in most development strategies as 
being an efficient means for "recycling" the huge OPEC "Petrodollar" 
surpluses into the hands of capital-poor developing countries. Within a 
few years, however, optimistic lending policies were brought to a crashing 
halt. A deep recession in the Northern economies strangled the export 
growth so critical to the continued servicing of these countries' debts. 
Sharp rises in real interest rates and an overvalued U.S. dollar led to 
acute debt servicing difficulties given that much of the outstanding debt 
was denominated in U.S. currency. As countries veered toward the brink of 


insolvency they lost the creditworthiness required to attract needed 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


18 


capital inflows. In fact, the very opposite was occurring: domestic 
capital was fleeing (often by illegal means) to safer havens, provoking a 
liquidity crisis, as the citizens of these countries lost confidence along 
with the foreign lenders. Ironically, several developing-country oil 
producers were among the worst affected when the world price of oil 
suddenly collapsed in 1982, thereby slashing the anticipated revenues from 
their principal export commodity and major source of foreign exchange 
earnings. 

The near-default of Mexico in 1982 threatened the financial 
integrity of some leading U.S. banks and precipitated the first in a series 
of large and complex debt-rescheduling manoeuvres. Most developing 
countries have had their sovereign debt dealt with on a case-by-case basis 
through negotiations in what is known as the "Paris Club." Typically, the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) has played a central role in debt 
negotiations, arranging emergency loans and bringing together elements of a 
financial "rescue" package. In return for credit, the debtor country must 
submit to an IMF stabilization program of austerity and economic policy 
reforms designed to restore creditworthiness. Countries have had to 
restrict imports, devalue their currencies, emphasize exports, encourage 
foreign investment, and cut domestic subsidies while imposing severe public 
sector spending restraints. Meeting IMF targets is frequently a condition 
for obtaining additional external financing from any source -- whether that 
be the commercial banking sector, Western aid and lending agencies, or the 
multilateral development banks of which the most important is the World 
ee 

The case-by-case approach succeeded in forestalling a 
widespread breakdown of the international financial system. The private 
banks also worked hard to reduce their exposures, shored up by "loan loss 
provisioning" to protect their depositors and shareholders, and largely 
withdrawing from making any new loans to high-risk debtors. Indeed the 
unwillingness of the banks to extend new credits eventually crippled a plan 
presented to the joint IMF-World Bank meeting in Seoul in October 1985 by 
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker (now President Bush's Secretary of 
State). A key part of the so-called Baker Plan involved voluntary 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


19 


commercial bank lending of $20 billion to problem debtors contingent on 
commitments by them to institute free-market reforms. The various elements 
of the U.S. plan went beyond a simple case-by-case approach, but offered no 
escape from the debt crisis. Moreover, the most affected debtors were just 
barely coping with the exigencies of avoiding external default, and were 
doing so at enormous internal cost to the welfare of their own citizens. 
Economic growth was reversed as unemployment rose and output was lost, and 
the poorest members of indebted societies -- the most blameless in the 
accumulation of massive foreign obligations -- were hit hardest by 
governmental austerity measures. Several countries, notably Brazil and 
Peru, rebelled to the extent of suspending or restricting payments to 
foreign creditors, and there was even talk of a "debtors' cartel." But 
these were crisis-driven responses, not a basis for long-term systemic 
reform. 

There seems to be a consensus emerging that stronger and 
more sustained measures are needed. Proposals made run a wide gamut that 
includes: additional lending backed by multilateral guarantees and 
continued adjustment by debtors; debt conversion including debt to equity 
Swaps and creation of a secondary market in discounted loans; deferrals of 
interest payments, caps on interest rates and interest capitalization; 
linkage of debt payments to foreign currency earnings; explicit forgiveness 
of part of the interest and/or principal due; and, as a last resort, 
temporary moratoria on debt service payments or even a repudiation of some 
debts.(15) the problem with more of the same -- i.e., new conditional 
loans on top of the restructuring and rescheduling of old debt -- is that 
this may simply postpone the inevitable reckoning. The problem with the 
more radical forms of debt relief is the "moral hazard" involved when the 
debts of the foolhardy and the delinquent are forgiven along with those of 
countries which have accepted tough medicine to recover financial health. 
Fearing a lost of faith on the part of both debtors and creditors, some are 


(15) For more details see the succinct surveys in Peter Berg, International 
Debt, Current Issue Review #84-30E, Library of Parliament, Research 
Branch, Ottawa; also Roy Culpepper, Beyond Baker: The Maturing Debt 
Crisis, Briefing Paper No. 18, The North-South Institute, Ottawa, May 
19S /pe DO eloLL. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


20 


calling for global negotiations towards a "new Bretton Woods" to restore 
order to the financial system. 

Most observers now accept that much of the Third World debt 
will never be repaid. Indeed the existing level of debt service is 
jeopardizing economic and development progress in many countries while it 
threatens to overwhelm the impact of foreign aid. (16) The desperate 
economic situation in much of sub-Saharan Africa has led official creditors 
(who are the dominant force here, unlike the case in Latin America, where 
private banks play the major role) to consider substantial debt relief for 
this region. Canada has been a leader in this regard, announcing the 
forgiveness of $671.9 million in aid loans to poor African countries at the 
Francophone and Commonwealth Summits in the fall of 1987. Legislation to 
this effect was introduced in Parliament on 17 April 1989. (Since 1986 all 
new Canadian aid has been in the form of grants.) Debt reduction for the 
poorest countries was also on the agenda of the June 1988 Toronto Western 
Economic Summit. At a meeting later that year finance ministers of the G-7 
countries agreed to choose from among several options involving partial 
debt cancellation, interest rate reductions and extension of principle 
repayment terms. 

Riots touched off by new debt-induced austerity measures 
killed over 300 people in Venezuela early in 1989 and turned the debt 
spotlight back on this hemisphere and the major problem debtors. The 
Bush administration in the United States is very concerned that prolonging 
the pain of debt-strapped countries is threatening not only development 


(16) The parliamentary committee report cited earlier in note 13 contained 
a strong plea for urgent attention to the debt burden, stating that 
"if concerted action on the debt overhang is not forthcoming for the 
poorest countries, we fear that aid agencies risk being transformed 
into de facto debt relief agencies, with much of development in these 
countries put on indefinite hold." (For Whose Benefit?, p. 51, and 
"Epilogue. ") This seconded the April 1987 report of the Senate 
Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs, Canada, the International 
Financial Institutions and the Debt Problem of Developing Countries, 
which urged Canada to take a leadership role in debt alleviation 
efforts. Measures advocated included additional concessional finance 
tied to adjustment, specific write-downs on a case-by-case basis, and 
improved dialogue between debtors and creditors. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


Pas! 


progress but also social stability and the democratic gains made in recent 
years. On 10 March 1989, U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady unveiled 
an important shift in approach to Third World debt which, unlike the 
previous Baker Plan, would focus on real debt reductions rather than adding 
to the mountain of private bank loans. Under the Brady Plan, the banks 
would agree to forgive a portion of the money owed them in return for 
guarantees by the IMF and World Bank for the balance of loans outstanding. 
At the spring meeting of the Bank and the Fund there was cautious support 
in principle for the U.S. initiative, but considerable confusion and 
disagreement remains as to the details of implementation. Several 
countries are concerned that the scheme could simply transfer the U.S. 
banks' risk on non-performing loans to public agencies and ultimately, 
therefore, to Western taxpayers. Banks have also reacted rather coolly 
given that, as noted earlier, most have already insulated themselves by 
setting aside high loan-loss provisions. (17) 

Canada continues to be among the Western countries most 
willing to support concrete debt assistance for developing countries. In 
April 1989, in addition to the tabling of the African debt forgiveness 
bill, Canada coordinated an international financial rescue package for 
Guyana and the Canadian government provided Costa Rica with a letter of 
intent to provide a $25 million line of credit supporting that country's 
economic recovery program. Canada acknowledges the danger that the toll of 
past debt will destroy the hopes of millions for a better life, and for 
progress toward human rights and democracy in a climate of social peace. 
At the same time, Canada can do relatively little by itself. All 
responsible for creating the debt crisis must contribute to its resolution 
in ways which protect the poor and most vulnerable from the worst 
consequences of adjustment. The situation can perhaps be contained, just 
barely, with more financial bandaids, but it probably cannot be corrected 
without far-reaching “structural reforms at the level of the world economy 


and within debtor nations themselves. 


(17) "A New Plan for Debt," Maclean's, 27 March 1989, p. 32-3; "IMF Board 
Backs Debt Relief Plan," The Globe and Mail, Toronto, 5 April 1989. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE OU PARLEMENT 


Ze 


CONCLUSION: THE POVERTY CONNECTION 


This paper has been able to survey only briefly the critical 
challenges of population, food, and debt confronting developing countries. 
These are dauntingly large and complex issues that call for a great deal of 
rethinking about appropriate and sustainable approaches to development on 
the part of governments in the North as well as the South. Without a 
sounder basis for development in many countries, Canada's particular 
efforts and projects in these areas, however worthy in themselves, are 
bound to appear rather insignificant in global terms. The compounded 
crises of the 1980s have brought about a new and sharper realism. As Keith 
Griffin argues: "The effects, as we all know, of the macro-economic 
mismanagement of the world economy have been horrific and even optimistic 
forecasts of future prospects leave no hope that there will be a 
substantial fall in unemployment, a reduction of mass poverty or a rise in 
living standards for many millions of ordinary working people, in the rich 
countries as well as in the poor." (18) 

The North-South Institute has recently estimated that 
between 1981 and 1987 Canada lost a cumulative total of $24.2 billion in 
potential export sales to highly-indebted Third World countries. If these 
countries were able to restore their previous buying patterns, an 
additional 200,000 Canadian jobs might be created over the next 10 years. 
The crises of the South -- of material hardship, hunger, increased numbers 
of refugees, violence and repression -- ultimately affect us too. And in 
_ these crises it is usually the poorest who are the most at risk. 
Stabilizing population growth rates, promoting efficient food production 
and distribution, reducing external debts to manageable levels, cannot be 
considered in isolation from each other or from that continuing, painful 
fact of global life. 

Development agencies are having to deal with the reality 
that decades of economic growth and foreign aid, even if the negative 


impact of recession and cutbacks had somehow been avoided, have been 


(18) Griffin (1987), "The Debt Crisis and the Poor," p. 263. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


PXE) 


unable to conquer the causes and consequences of mass poverty. Recent 
crises could have a silver lining if they refocus efforts on directly 
attacking the problems of poverty. Some countries, mostly in Asia, have 
graduated into the ranks of the "newly-industrialized." But as the latest 
annual report of the Asian Development Bank makes plain, in too many cases 
poor majorities are being left behind. (19) Conditions are even more 
acute in most of Africa and Latin America where modest gains have been 
wiped out by civil war, drought, debt, and disease. In the present 
circumstances, the first pillar of Canada's Official Development Assistance 
Charter, adopted as the centrepiece of CIDA's current strategy, has never 
been more timely. In putting poverty first it declares: "The primary 
purpose of Canadian official development assistance is to help the poorest 
countries and people of the world." 


SELECTED REFERENCES 
A. Research Branch and Official Publications 


Berg, Peter. International Debt. Current Issue Review No. 84-30E. Library 
of Parliament, Research Branch, Ottawa. 


Canadian International Development Agency. Sharing Our Future. Minister 
of Supply and Services Canada, Ottawa, 1987 (released March 1988). 


House of Commons Standing Committee on External Affairs and International 
Trade. For Whose Benefit? Report on Canada's Official Development 
Assistance Policies and Programs. Queen's Printer for Canada, Ottawa, 
May 1987. 


The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs. Canada, the Interna- 
tional Financial Institutions and the Debt Problem of Developing 
Countries. Minister of Supply and Services Canada, Ottawa, April 
1987. 


Rutherford, Sally. Agriculture and Famine. Background Paper No. 134-E. 
Library of Parliament, Research Branch, Ottawa, August 1985. 


(19) See “Focusing on Best Way to Help Poor," The Financial 
Post, editorial, 25 April 1989, p. 12. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


24 


B. On Population and Food 
Blaxter, Sir Kenneth. People, Food and Resources. Cambridge University 
Press, Cambridge, 1986. 


Brown, Lester. The Changing World Food Prospect: The Nineties and Beyond. 
Worldwatch Paper 85. Washington, D.C., October 1988. 


Brown, Lester, and Jodi L. Jacobsen. Our Demographically Divided World. 
Worldwatch Paper 74. Washington, D.C., December 1986. 


Griffin, Keith. World. Hunger and the World Economy. Macmillan Press, 
Houndsmills, England, 1987. 


Jacobsen, Jodi. Planning the Global Family. Worldwatch Paper 80. 
Washington, D.C., October 1987. 


Kent, George. The Political Economy of Hunger. Praeger Publishers, New 
York, 19845)” 


National Research Council. Working Group. Population Growth and Economic 
Development: Policy Questions. National Academy Press, Washington, 
DiC 1986, 


Sen, Amartya. Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Entitlement and Depriva- 
tion. Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1981. 


Wirick, Gregory. World Population: Continuing Challenges. Briefing Paper 
No. 11. The North-South Institute, Ottawa, November 1985. 


Wolf, Edward. Beyond the Green Revolution: New Approaches for Third World 
Agriculture. Worldwatch Paper 73. Washington, D.C. October 1986. 


C. Qn Debt and Development 
Culpepper, Roy. Beyond Baker: The Maturing Debt Crisis. Briefing Paper 
No. 18. The North-South Institute, Ottawa, May 1987. 
Culpepper, Roy. The Debt Matrix. The North-South Institute, Ottawa, 1988. 


"Dicing With Debt: The Third World Dilemma." New Internationalist. 
November 1988. 


George, Susan. A Fate Worse Than Debt. Penguin Books, London, 1988. 


Lombardi, Richard W. Debt Trap: Rethinking the Logic of Development. 
Praeger Publishers, New York, 1985. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


2 


Loxley, John. Debt and Disorder: External Financing for Development. 
Westview Special Studies in Social, Political, and Economic Develop- 
ment. Westview Press, Boulder, Colo., and the North-South Institute, 
1986. 


The North-South Institute. Review '88/Outlook ‘80, The Wider World: 
Challenges for the Second Mulroney Mandate. Ottawa, January 1989. 


Nunnenkamp, Peter. The International Debt Crisis of the Third World: 
Causes and Consequences for the World Economy. Harvester Press, 
Brighton, England, 1986. 


The World Bank. World Debt Tables: External Debt of Developing Countries/ 
1988-89 Edition. 


ae Rao ond aaa , 
| Ry) ow 


es et eee) 


oi 
Pouils @ar* © 


aes at vi 
- sates . ee ie ’ at nin iM 
ean nd i OR. 
be Ta ur bid bie j Mert 4 . 
Vine aah nee si iM he 


