ae 
a 
i 
2 


A FOREST NATION 


© Minister of Supply and Services Canada 1991 
Catalogue No. F029-32/1-1991E 
ISBN 0-662-19096-3 


Copies of this publication may be obtained free of charge from: 


Forestry Canada 

Corporate and Public Affairs 
Ottawa, Ontario 

CANADA 

K1A 1G5 


Telephone: (819) 953-2312 
Facsimile: (819) 953-7048 


Cette publication est aussi disponible en frangais sous le titre: 
La gestion forestieres, une question d équilibre 


dans la série 


Le Canada, un pays de foréts 


LAY, 


Nara, 


Recyclable 


Printed in Canada 


SUSTAINING A BALANCE 
IN FOREST MANAGEMENT 


Government 


CANADA 


A FOREST NATION 


Diversity is the key 
to forestry in Canada. 


Generally, the provinces provide rights to 
private companies to harvest on government 
land. Rights are granted to timber, but not 
to the land, water, wildlife or recreation 
resources. These rights involve specific 
reforestation and harvesting responsibilities 
which are monitored by the provinces and 
which are subject to review at usually short- 
term intervals. 


The responsibilities of the federal government 
include trade relations, market development, 
management of federal land, regulation of 
pesticides, monitoring of atmospheric 
pollution, forestry research, scientific 
exchanges and technology transfer. Many of 
these responsibilities are shared with the 
provinces. 


Canada sees the forest resource as the very 
heart of the sustainable future which must be, 
as the United Nations Brundtland World 
Commission on the Environment and 
Development showed almost five years ago, 
the anchor of world-wide development from 
now on. We see a resource that must and can 
be sustained. We see concerns that must be 
addressed in cooperation with all stakeholders 
in the context of environmentally sound 
management. Canada sees a need to further 
reconcile the different values that different 
people place on the forests. The economic 
realities are here and will never go away. We 
see national imperatives of employment and 
prosperity that we can never ignore. 


The various competing demands made on the 
forests must be carefully considered when 
priorities are set in this, a forest nation. Ina 
world of many different viewpoints and 
realities, some things are incontestable. One 
of them is the extent to which the landscape, 
including the forests, has helped to shape the 
very heart and soul of Canada. Trees and 
forests, after all, were one of the reasons why 
many Europeans came to the New World in 
the first place. They are a reason why people 
remained here to work the land and they are a 
fundamental reason why the nation has 
prospered and why we have become who we 
are. No wonder Canadians take so seriously 
the management of their forests. 


Heirs to the third-largest forested expanse in 
the world, Canadians have grown accustomed 
‘to a landscape that seems, with overwhelming 
predominance, to be formed of trees. More 
than half the country -- 453 million hectares -- 
is covered with trees, giving Canada one tenth 
of the world's forests. 


Few countries rely more heavily on the forests 
for economic and social well-being than does 
Canada. Almost 900,000 Canadians are 
employed either directly in the forest industry 
or by companies that support it, and 
approximately 350 communities owe their 
very existence to nearby forests. The forest 
industry accounts for 26 percent of the 
manufacturing sector in Canada with 
investments averaging $6.3 billion annually. 
The forest sector pays out more than 

$8 billion in annual wages. In addition, 


Canadian forests support a multi-billion dollar 
tourism and recreation industry. 


As compelling as these figures are, there is 
more to Canada's reliance on the forests than 
can be demonstrated through statistics and 
ledger sheets. There is, in this forest nation, a 
love of the land and the woods that permeates 
literature and all culture, and that underlies 
the national mystique that binds together a 
diverse and scattered population. 


This association between the people and the 
land goes beyond practicalities, even esoteric 
practicalities. The people of Canada know 
that they are stewards of a crucial link 
between the land and the welfare of the globe. 
They know that the forests are vital to the 
planet's life-support system and are a priceless 
gene pool of plant and animal life that is 
fundamental to the biological processes on 
which human existence depends. 


Canadians know and appreciate the value of a 
white-tailed deer swiftly bounding across a 
clearing no less than they appreciate the value 
of exporting a shipload of lumber. This 
knowledge brings with it immense 


responsibility. 


The values which people around the world 
place on their forests have changed 
dramatically in recent years. Where public 
concern and government policy used to be 
geared primarily to timber supply for 
industry, today a host of values and demands 
come into play. Government policies are 


Forest management 
practices in Canada must 
reflect the values inherent 
to the Canadian reality, a 
complex mix of sometimes 
competing values and 
demands. 


The forest industry 
provides employment, 
directly or indirectly, to 
almost 900,000 Canadians 
and no fewer than 350 
communities owe their 
very existence to nearby 
forests. 


changing to reflect these evolving values and 
demands. Today, the forests must be 
managed not just for commercial timber 
supply, but for fish and wildlife, for 


watersheds, recreation and biodiversity. 


Forest management practices in Canada now 
take an ecosystem approach, a more holistic 
view of the forest, recognizing that it is much 
more than trees, and that each of the 
constituent elements must be nurtured and 
preserved if the integrity of the whole is to be 
maintained. 


Consistent with this vision, Canada embraces 
the concept of sustainable development where 
the use of resources must be in the best 
interest of today's population while not 
endangering the needs and requirements of 
future generations. 


MEETING THE CHALLENGE 


FOREST CONSERVATION 


anada has acknowledged the importance of 


preserving its forest ecodiversity, including old- 
growth, through the creation of a network of 34 


national parks which, once the system is 
_ fully completed, will represent all 39 
natural terrestrial areas found in the 
country. The country's Green Plan for a 
Healthy Environment aims at the 
completion of the system by the end of 


the decade. 


Already, more than 31 million hectares 
within Canada's forests regions are in 
conservation areas, including national 
and provincial parks. This represents the 
highest per capita accumulation of 
protected natural areas in the world, and 
Canada is committed to extending this to 
12 percent of the country, consistent with the 
findings of the Brundtland Commission. 


Canada has a network of parks and wilderness areas 
established to preserve the habitats of species, unique 
ecosystems and samples representative of ecosystems. 


There are more than 3,300 protected sites across the country, 
including ecological reserves, natural areas, wildlife parks, 
wilderness areas, national or provincial parks, and birds 
sanctuaries. The preservation of these 
areas will contribute to the maintenance 
of the gene pool and of ecodiversity and 
ensure that representative segments of the 
Canadian forests are available for the 
satisfaction of all the values associated 
with the forests. 


Canada's perspective on old-growth 
forests recognizes the intrinsic value of 
preserving representative stands of all 
forest ecosystems, old-growth included. 
Sustainable development and common 
sense further require a recognition that 
old-growth forests provide two benefits: 
they are cherished monuments to the past and a source of 
economic wealth. Trees can live a very long time and there is 
something very human and understandable in the way 
people venerate old things. Finding the balance between 
these conflicting demands is the challenge that all of us face. 


Ei! 
Already, over 31 million 
hectares within Canada's 
forest regions are in 
conservation areas. This 
represents the highest per 
capita accumulation of 
designated natural sites 

in the world. 


There is no universally accepted definition of 
what constitutes old-growth forests. In the 
province of British Columbia, stands of 500 
year-old Sitka spruce trees clearly qualify as 
very old-growth, while in Central Canada, 
140 year-old pines may constitute old-growth 
in a different ecological context. 


Canada recognizes that some old-growth areas 
ought never to be touched for a variety of 
important reasons. It also acknowledges that 
trees do not live forever. Many of the trees in 
Canada which qualify by most standards as 
old-growth, are also mature or overmature 
and are potential victims of fire, insect 
infestation or disease. Industry, naturally, 
requires some of these trees, as an important 
part of their timber supply, and will be 
dependent upon their harvesting until many 
second-growth forests reach maturity. This 
transition will likely take decades. 


Environmentalists' concerns about old- 
growth may be no less valid than economic 
and practical considerations. In fact, the 
governments in Canada are addressing both. 


The ecological importance of old-growth to 
species diversity is under research, from a 
multi-disciplinary perspective. More research 
will add to the understanding of this complex 
subject and to the extent to which old-growth 
forests contribute to species diversity. 


A number of provinces have developed a 
review of their old-growth forests to better 
ensure that public and stakeholder demands 


for increased conservation are seriously 
considered in integrated planning. Canada's 
view of old-growth forests is to balance their 
environmental and ecological value with 
economic and commercial concerns in the 
context of sustainable development. 


FOREST PROTECTION 


Because of the expanse and general 
remoteness of Canadian forests, damage from 
insect, disease, encroaching vegetation and 
fire is more difficult to control than in many 
countries with a smaller and closer resource 
base and denser population. Even though 
Canada produces some of the world's best 
aerial- and ground-based forest protection 
systems, millions of cubic metres of wood are 
lost every year. 


Fire is the largest contributor to forest losses. 
Its sources are both natural and man-made. 
In Canada there were more than 9,000 forest 
fires during 1990. Their detection and 
suppression represents one of the largest 
mobilizations of human and technical 
resources in fire fighting anywhere in the world. 


For these reasons, Canada has become an 
innovator in this field. For example, it is one 
of the largest exporters of water bombers 
which help to save forest areas in Europe and 
the developing world. A number of provinces 
use new computer technology in advanced 
fire management. These advanced systems 
incorporate a multitude of field-generated data 
in predicting the number and location of fires. 


Competing vegetation (weeds and brush) that 
too often hampers the successful and quick 
re-establishment of the forest is another major 
problem. Canada has become a pioneer in 
developing state-of-the-art herbicides (weed 
killers) which have an unparalleled level of 
safety. The current elimination of their use -- a 
goal for some --would in the Canadian 
context, make it unfeasible to replant and 
tend many harvested areas, especially in 
remoter areas. However, research continues 
into finding new approaches to controlling 
encroaching vegetation. This will further 
increase the already wide margin of 
environmental safety of these applications. 


As well, millions of hectares of forest have 
been lost to pests such as the budworm and 
bark beetle. Without protection, losses might 
- have been larger and other, non-timber 
values, such as recreation or wildlife habitat 
might have suffered. In response to public 
concerns, the forest sector has increased the 
use of biological agents. Canada has 
developed, on a technical and commercial 
basis, the wide use of Bacillus thuringiensis 
(B.t.), a biological insecticide, as an 
alternative to chemically-based insecticides. 


The use of forest pesticides, whether they be 
chemical or biological, is strictly controlled in 
Canada. Only after thorough research and a 
rigorous review process coordinated by the 
federal government are pesticides approved 
for use. Permits for use are only granted for 
application on specific types of sites and 
under certain conditions to ensure absolute 
safety. 


Canada will continue to build upon its 
strength in forest protection as well as to assist 
developing and developed countries by 
sharing its technical and scientific knowledge. 
Canadian forest protection technology and 
know-how have proven to be key in 
sustaining the forest resources of the world. 


Canada is one of the 
largest exporters of water 
bombers which help to 
save countless forest 
areas in Europe and the 
developing world. 


In reforesting harvested 
land, we rely on natural 
regeneration for the 
renewal of more than half 
of our harvested forest 
land and, on the 
remainder, to plant 
seedlings grown from 
seeds collected primarily 
from wild populations. 


BIODIVERSITY 


Although trees are obviously the main and 
most visible component of the forest, 
Canada's forests also sustain a diversity of 
plants, animals, insects and microorganisms 
that are unique in this country and which 
must be preserved. Many of these life forms 
are already in parks, conservation areas or 
other protected environments, while some are 
in areas which are subject to harvest. 


Canada recognizes the importance of 
maintaining the diversity of ecosystems and 
the wealth of genetic material each contains. 
It also acknowledges that some of these 
systems, though resilient, are fragile and forest 
management practices must recognize this. 


Canada has developed reforestation policies 
that ensure the long-term health and 
preservation of living organisms and gene 
pools and that give nature a helping hand 
where natural regeneration does not quickly 
occur. The key to these policies is to rely on 
natural regeneration for the renewal of more 
than half of our harvested forest land and, on 
the remainder, to plant seedlings grown from 
seeds collected primarily from trees growing 
in wilderness. Where planting is necessary, 
there continues to be a growing emphasis on 
using a broad genetic representation. Natural 
regeneration mimics somewhat natural 
distribution patterns of forest stands and 
helps ensure that the regenerated forest 
reflects what the area is capable of producing. 


Canada has pledged to establish a national 
tree genetics center to ensure the preservation 
of the domestic forest resource, and a national 
network of ecological forest reserves. The 
country is a signatory of the Convention on 
International Trade in Endangered Species of 
Wild Flora and Fauna. It has participated in 
the formation of a World Convention on 
Biodiversity and is committed to a new 
Wildlife and Plant Protection Act. Canada is 
also taking a leadership role in helping to 
formulate an international agreement on 
forests. These measures will further Canada's 
environmental commitment which envisions 
biodiversity as one of the key components of 
sustainable development. 


HARVESTING 


Few of the concerns raised by Canadians 
create as much attention as the issue of 
clearcuts. Clearcutting -- the harvesting of 
trees on a given tract of land by removing 
them all -- may have a definitely negative 
visual impact. Valid concerns are also raised 
about the effects of clearcuts on wildlife and 


the local ecology. 


As noted by a recent publication of a British 
Columbia inquiry into forest management, 
"To suggest that any particular harvesting 
system is all good or bad, fails to take into 
consideration many interdependent factors." 
Past experience in boreal forest nations, for 
example, indicates that where clearcutting is 
not applied on the many sites where it is 
‘required, the net result is to downgrade future 
generation of trees. 


This photo of a clearcut area in British 
Columbia was taken in 1957. 


The forest industry relies on clearcuts because 
they are cost-effective and a safe method for 
workers. They also use clearcutting because 
much of the Canadian forest, is mature, over- 
mature or even-aged and many species must 
receive large amounts of light if they are to 
vigorously regenerate. 


Canada recognizes that improper clearcut 
harvesting or negligence can lead to soil 
erosion and threaten wildlife and fisheries as 
well as biodiversity and the visual appeal of 
the forest. There remains a consensus among 
most foresters and forest managers that if 
practised properly, clearcutting can replicate 
the natural life cycle of the forest. 


New regulations and guidelines in many 
provincial jurisdictions are resulting in the 
wiser use of clearcutting including the 
reduction of the maximum size of the cut- 
over areas. By current law or regulation, all 
cut over areas on public lands must be 
satisfactorily reforested. 


This is how it looks today. 


There remains a consensus 
amongst most foresters 
that if practised properly, 
clearcutting can replicate 
the natural life-cycle of 
the forest. 


mee KORE 
at 
Ram 


Canada's timber supply 
indicated that nationally, 
the resource can sustain 
the present level of 
industrial activity on a 
long-term basis. 


It is important to note that clearcutting is 
only one of several harvesting methods used 
in Canada. In certain areas, techniques such 
as shelterwood cutting are applied but with 
narrower and smaller openings. For example, 
shelterwood cutting tends to be used more in 
mixed forests and in locations where natural 
regeneration potential is extremely high. In 
selection harvesting, usually older trees are 
taken from stands containing trees of 
different ages, opening the stands and 
allowing the remaining trees to receive more 
light, moisture and nutrients. New Canadian 
computer innovations are helping with the 
landscape design and shaping of cutovers to 
ensure that they better blend with the natural 
terrain. 


Clearcutting is, and will remain, an approved 
method for harvesting, salvaging and renewing 
certain forests in Canada. At the same time, 
Canada continues to refine its harvesting 
techniques guided by the principles of 
sustainable development and landscape 
conservation. Canada is increasing research 
on harvesting techniques with the goal of 
further developing more tailored approaches 
for the benefit of all forest values. 


REFORESTATION AND WOOD 
SUPPLY 


Forest regeneration -- the replacing of trees in 
an area harvested to ensure both the 
sustainability of the resource and the long- 
term economic health of the myriad forest 


10 


industries from which Canada and its foreign 
customers benefit -- is also a subject of concern. 


There is no denying either the demands made 
by industry on the forests of Canada or the 
economic importance of that industry. 


The regeneration of harvested forests varies 
somewhat from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. 
Canada believes that the forests must be 
regenerated at least at the rate they are 
harvested. 


The average annual tree harvest nationally 
represents approximately 1 million hectares or 
only 0.4percent of the country's productive 
forest land base. Canada's planting record 
shows a tripling of the area planted and a four- 
fold increase in the number of trees planted 
between 1975 and 1990. In Canada, one 
billion trees are now planted annually which 
means that two trees are planted for every one 
cut. A recent study showed that the net 
growing volume of Canada's forest has 
increased by 693 million cubic metres or 


2.5% from 1976 to 1986. 


Sustainable development, however, requires 
that we do better still. Canada is a leader in 
research into practical methods of enhancing 
successful natural and artificial forest 
regeneration. For example, "variable 
chlorophyll fluorescence techniques" 
developed by Canadian university researchers 
improve the quality and survival of forest 
nursery seedlings. Combined with enhanced 
regeneration technologies, systems are now in 


place to monitor and ensure the overall 
success of regeneration efforts. 


Ensuring a long-term wood supply sufficient 
to maintain industrial growth, as well as 
maintaining Canada's leadership role in the 
delivery of forest products to world markets, 
depends on the regeneration for use 
tomorrow of the areas harvested today. 


Assessments of the viability of Canada's 
timber supply indicate that nationally the 
resource can sustain the present level of 
industrial activity on a long-term basis, 
although there may be regional or local 
variances. Reductions in allowable cuts may 
be mandated in certain areas. Canadian 
scientific advances in satellite technology, 
computer mapping and forest modelling, 
provide improved information on all forest 
values. This, combined with better utilization 
standards and new harvesting technology, 
make some forests previously considered 
economically inaccessible now viable for 
harvest. Advances in processing technology 
will increase the amount of lumber and fibre 
that can be obtained from each tree. 


One of the difficulties is that in many regions 
there is an uneven distribution of age classes, 
with a skew to the older and over-mature 


categories. This necessitates, in the short 
term, the cutting of older forests if the current 
timber supply is not to be significantly 
decreased. Over time, and with more 
intensive forest management, there will be a 
more even balance between younger and 
mature forests. 


The success of sustainability depends heavily 
on formulating strategies that will maintain 
the productivity of the forests and reconcile 
the conflicting demands made on them. In 


Canada's planting 

record shows a fourfold 
increase in the numbers of 
trees planted between 
1975 and 1990. 


The annual tree harvest 
nationally represents 
approximately 1 million 
hectares or only 0.4% of 
the country's productive 
forest land base. 


the long term, assessing the different demands 
placed on the forest resource and the 
resource's capacity to replenish itself either 
naturally or through artificial means is a 
complex exercise. It is clear, however, that 
with effective management techniques geared 
to the different problems encountered in 
different areas, Canada can look forward to 
continued economic benefits from the forest 
resource. 


Canada's 
Land Base 


The 1987 National Forest Sector Strategy for 
Canada signalled an expanding commitment 
to forest management, including forest 
renewal and intensive silviculture, and called 
on all jurisdictions involved to promote forest 
resource development programs that would 
ensure Canada's long-term wood supply. 


922 million ha 


Productive forests 


Commercially operable 
forests 


Area 
harvested 
annually 
Tmillion ha, 


THE TASK AHEAD 


Forest values and attitudes have changed. The 

demands that Canadians place on their forests and 
the price they are willing to pay for their economic 
development have changed radically. There is, today, an 


L ittle today is as it was twenty or even ten years ago. 


awareness of the fragility of ecosystems 
-and of the importance of environmental 
integrity which is unique to the latter 
part of the twentieth century. 


Canadian forestry practices and forest 
management policies, always at the 
leading edge of contemporary wisdom 
and the state of the scientific art, have 
changed too, in keeping with the pace of 
public perceptions and developing 
knowledge. 


Forests, in Canada and elsewhere, used to 
be only managed for timber. Today they 
must be managed holistically, in 


recognition of the fact that a forest is much more than trees 
and that all the myriad parts of the ecosystem are 
fundamental to the integrity of the whole. Regeneration and 


the preservation of biodiversity are more important than 
ever. Greater numbers of trees are planted to replace those 
harvested. They are tended and nurtured in more efficient 
ways and, as a result, more of them survive. But above all, 
there is a recognition in today's forest management practices 
of the crucial importance of ecosystems. 


Canada has instituted integrated resource 
management for more than a decade. 
Most forests will continue to be assessed 
and managed for the values they bring to 
Canadians and to the world. Whether in 
the case of water, fish, wildlife, recreation, 
tourism, range, heritage, biodiversity or 
timber considerations, the planning 
process will increasingly take these 
important -- sometimes competing -- 
values into account. Canadian forests, 
because of their breadth, have always had 
a large, multi-user character. Modern day 
pressures will simply sharpen that inherent 
focus and ongoing research and development will provide 
additional tools for achieving beneficial results. The goal 
must be to satisfy the maximum number of stakeholders and 


13 


users, everyone from conservationists to timber 
companies. Fortunately, Canada has expansive 
forest areas still intact and the ability as a 
young, outward-looking country, to learn from 
others and to keep abreast of developments 
throughout the world. With Canada's proven 
track record as an innovator in the field of 
forest management practices, the potential 
remains to meet the forest challenge. 


"The challenge of the 1990s is formidable, " 
Jules Dufour, professor of humanities at the 
Université du Québec, writes in a recent book 
entitled Resource Management and 
Development. 


"Will it be possible to reconcile the interests of 
the forest industry, which is increasingly trans- 
national , with those of other forest users?” he 
asks. "Will the communities that depend on 
the forest for their livelihood be able to survive 
and even prosper? Will we be able to restore 
those environments which have been degraded 
by industrial waste water? Will we succeed in 
completing the national park network and 
creating enough protected areas to ensure 
diversity and durability in each of Canada's 


major biogeographical units?" 


These are all important questions. They 
describe the magnitude of the task ahead and 
the weight of the responsibility. The Government 
of Canada believes we have, or are developing, 
the resources, skills and attitudes to meet that 
challenge. We have the will and we have the 
tools. 


14 


For further information you may contact the 
following forestry governmental agencies: 


Government of Canada: 


Forestry Canada 

Corporate & Public Affairs Directorate 

21st floor - Place Vincent Massey 

351 St. Joseph Blvd. 

Hull, Québec 

CANADA Phone: (819) 997-1107 
KIA 1G5 Fax: (819) 953-7048 


Provincial Governments: 


Newfoundland 

Dept. of Forestry and Agriculture 

Public Relations 

P.O. Box 8700 

St. John's, Newfoundland 

CANADA Phone: (709) 729-3760 
A1B 4J6 Fax: (709) 729-3374 


Prince Edward Island 
Dept. of Energy and Forestry 


Forestry Branch 

P.O. Box 2000 

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island 
CANADA Phone: (902) 368-5010 
C1A 7N8 Fax: (902) 368-5544 


Nova Scotia Dept. of Lands and Forests 
Extension Services Division 


P.O. Box 698 

Halifax, Nova Scotia 

CANADA Phone: (902) 424-4445 
B3) 219 Fax: (902) 424-7735 


New Brunswick 


Dept. of Natural Resources and Energy 


Communications 

P.O. Box 6000 

Fredericton, New Brunswick 

CANADA Phone: (506) 453-3711 
E3B 5H1 Fax: (506) 457-4881 


Quebec - Ministry of Forests 

Communications 

5700, 4e avenue Ouest, D-300 

Charlesbourg, (Québec) 

CANADA Phone: (418) 643-1809 
G1H 6RI1 Fax: (418) 643-0720 


Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources 
Communications Section 
Forest Resources Group 


258 Queen Street East 


Box 1000 

Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario Phone: (705) 945-6613 
CANADA or (705) 945-6741 
P6A 5N5 Fax: (705) 945-6608 


Manitoba Natural Resources 

Forestry Branch 

300-530 Kenaston Blvd. 

Winnipeg, Manitoba 

CANADA Phone: (204) 945-8238 
R3N 124 Fax: (204) 945-7989 


Saskatchewan Parks and Renewable Resources 
Forestry Branch 


P.O. Box 3003 

Prince Albert, Saskatchewan 

CANADA Phone: (306) 953-2225 
S6V 6G1 Fax: (306) 953-2360 


Alberta Forestry, Lands and Wildlife Forest Service 
Program Support Branch 

10th floor, Bramalea Building 

9920-108 Street 

Edmonton, Alberta 

CANADA Phone: (403) 427-3551 
T5K 2M4 Fax: (403) 427-0292 


British Columbia Ministry of Forests 

Public Affairs Branch 

Information Services 

1450 Government Street 

Victoria, British Columbia 

CANADA Phone: (604) 387-5255 
V8W 3E7 Fax: (604) 387-8485 


Northwest Territories Dept. of Renewable Resources 
Forest Management Division 

Yellowknife, Northwest Territories 

CANADA Phone: (403) 920-6405 
X1A 2L9 Fax: (403) 873-0114 


Yukon Territory Dept. of Renewable Resources 


Policy and Planning 

PO; Box 2703 

Whitehorse, Yukon Territory 

CANADA Phone: (403) 667-5634 
Y1A 2C6 Fax: (403) 667-3641 


Canada 


