EV $0 Se eas fe ie Spiny sees, chats 2 pafirre 


— 3995 DE7 


- STOPPING | : 
_ WATER POLLUTION — 
AT a ) SOURCE 


3 1761 11973579 3 


Me 


fasta Municipal/industrial Strategy for Abatement - 


DRAFT EFFLUENT LIMITS REGULATION 
FOR THE 
- PULP AND PAPER SECTOR 


ieee @ Sengionment- 
| Environnement 


a 


| Report Prepared By: _ 
he Water Resources Branch. 
te Ontario ae of the eae nears 


This Desf Regalatten lay mot bec ‘nally reviewed by the ) 
Registrar of Regulations or by counsel of the Registrar of _ 
Regulations, and may be subject to wording changes. 


- FEBRUARY 1993 _ 
Cette phblication technique a 
| my "est cena qu ‘en ene las: 
ei ges E Copyright: ‘Queen’ S Printer ay Ontario, 1993 ? 
am This Publication may be reproduced for non-commercial purposes 3 
| i with SprenaS attribution. 
" PIBS 2261 


She 


_. DraftP&P.Jan,1993 . 


. Definitions 


_ Purpose 


21. 


24. 


725. 


ie Calculations 
Calculations 


_ Calculations 


“Application . Aron = 


Parameter Limits. 
- AOX. Limits 


Lethality limits . 


Sampling Points aie 


Calculations - 


Calculations 


_ Monitoring : ae 


‘Process Effluent. 


‘Process Effluent 
Process Effluent 
' Process Effluent 
Process Effluent. 
pH Measurement . 


List 


| Sampling and Analytical 


loadings 


e 


OF CONTENTS 


Daily: Limits . . 


Quarterly Limits . 


Quality Control * 


e e-e e e e 


Procedures. §.° 


- Reference Production Rate . 
= Revised Parameter Limits . 


ferocess Effluent Loadings ° 


Reduced Frequency . 


Acute Lethality Testing - Rainbow Trout ° 
Acute Lethality Testing - Daphnia Magna . 


Chronic: Toxicity Testing - Ceriodaphnia . . 
Chronic Toxicity Testing - Fathead Minnow 
Cooling Water Effluent - Weekly Assessment 


Flow Measurement . 


e eo e e- e o> 


Calculations - Effluent eo limecl anata 


Storm Water Control Study 


Record Keeping. . 


‘Cooling Water Effluent Loadings. 


e e e e © 


¢ ¢ @¢ e@ 


: e e @ ° 


Page No. 
Sits 1 
3 
ney 4 
Ae 4 
e e oa 
e e i 5 ‘i 
is. ates 
se es ay f 
a 8 
Sa cuits 8" 
a. 9 
& e e 10 
e e : 10 
ae LZ 
ee ae 
ah eh Cig aia Weg 
s e e aka 
shee? ee 
se e 14 
speco aL 6 
e e j 16 2 
eiite ed, 
aie 7 
Ag. a7 
ee e 18 
naa 
° 20 


‘ 


DraftP&P.Jan,1993 © 


26.6: Reporting 26.7 oo) se ere one 

Compliance 
Quarterly 

- Loadings 

<= DH a 

- Flow Measurement 
By-Passes 
Chronic Toxicity testihg 
AOX Elimination Plan 


14 ° Timing e e e e e e ‘e e e e 


LIST: OF. SCHEDULES -) 0-72 at ce 


List OF PROTOCOLS 4. 4. - =< 


DraftP&P.Jan,1993 is Se Be ca ae sae ad 


Definitions _ 


1.-(1) In this Regulation, 


"combined effluent means effluent that originates from or comes 
into contact by design with any industrial process or process. 
materials. and that is mixed ‘with cooling water effluent or 
stormwater effluent prior to discharge to a surface water; 


"cooling water effluent". means water and associated material that 
is used in an industrial process for the purpose of removing heat 
and, by design, does not come into contact with process materials, 
but does not include blowdown - from SOCLINE LEN Aarts poling water 
systems; 


"cooling ‘water effluent monitoring Brann means a covling water 
effluent stream on which a ha emt paerete is ‘required to be 
_.established under section 6; . 


"cooling water effluent: med tnt EL point" ‘means a "sampling point 


designated under section 6; 


"direct discharger" means an owner or’ person in’ occupation or ae 
having the charge, management or ELAS SEY of a plant that discharges 
effluent to a. surface waters. 


"Director", in Hire of obligations ona direct discharger, means 

a director appointed under section 5 of the Environmental 
Protection Act and responsible for the region in which the direct 
discharger’s plant is located and. oes an. alternate named: by 
ete Director; 


"final treatment procaaan means. ane last treatment process through 
which an effluent passes before the effluent is Bene char ged: to 


' surface water; 


"limited parameter", in. relation to.a airect aischarger’ — plant, 
means a parameter for which a ENS is. specified in columns se aS 


“schedule” ‘2. for the plant;. 


"month" means a calendar month; 


"operating day" means all or part of 24 consecutive hours cantare, 
which process effluent is beings discharged from -a direct _ 
discharger’ s plant; 


"plant" means an Pagcecrial facility and the developed property and 
vests disposal sites associated With Lt 24. sae 


Eaprocers: change" méans a change in equipment, production process, 
proces materials or ‘treatment Degen ss ey, : 


DraftPeP. Jan,1993 — 7 ee Cee ane ae ‘age die 2 


“process effluent" means effluent that originates from or comes 
into contact by design with any industrial process or process 
materials, and includes continuous and intermittent discharges, 
combined effluent, blowdown from recirculating cooling water 
systems, waste disposal site effluent and waste waters discharged. 
during a maintenance shut-down period for all or part of the plant; 


"process effluent monitoring stream" means a process effluent . 
. stream on which a pte taren porns is beac fre to be established ~ 
under section’ 6. ; . 


"process effluent sampling point" means a sampling point designated 
under section 6 of this Regulation. ou 


. "process faateriaten in relation to a direct alecher ents s plant, 
means raw materials ‘for use in an industrial process at the plant, . 
- Manufacturing intermediates produced at the plant, or products or 
by-products of an industrial process at the plant, but does not 
include chemicals added to once-through cooling water for’ the 
‘purpose of controlling organisms ’ fouling and corrosion; . 


"reference production rate", means the production rate for a. direct 
ci Sone s plant as set out in schedule 4. ' 


"quarter" means all. or part of : a period. of three connecacivel months 
beginning on the first day of. TERE NES April, July and October; 


"schedule 3. parameter" , in relation to a direct aieeharcen s plant, } 
means a parameter listed in Schedule # for monitoring - -at: the pia ; 


"semi-annual period" means raid or pare ofa period of six months 
beginning on the first day ae January and rhe . 


"set of samples" means all of the samples. that must be ‘eollectea on 
a given operating day from all of the sampling points established 
under section 464 at a discharger’s pliant, for the purposes of _ 
analysing for the pai oneL ers listed in schedules 2 and 3 SOU that 
eteteieteae hie s plant; : : Bey 26 


"storm water effluent" means ieee: from: a storm | event or thaw 
that is discharged from a Tena ere Ss. plant either ERSTE or 
indirectly to a surface Abeheottt . 


"surface water" means a ey, river,. poral Gee ‘reservoir, 
swamp, marsh or surface SECRET works; F ic soe ea Thee ¥ 


‘s "Waste. disposal site effluent" means ertiuent aisenarcea from any 


waste disposal site other than a waste disposal'.site used. solely ‘ = 


. for the storage, for use as fuel, of wood ES, bark or no 


"week" means a period of seven days commencing at midnight on 
SENSES TAY and oe at Seas on the. ites tothe aha : 


DraftPsP.Jan,1993. 


- The purpose of this Raguiatien is, through the 
- application of monitoring and limits, to control 
the discharge to surface waters of substances 


listed in schedule 2, to assess the discharge to 

surface waters of substances listed in schedule 3, 

and to require mills to. prepare eran for the 
; elimination of AOX. | 


DraftP&P.Jan,1993. , 7 eerie ited 
Lipemtim 


2. ‘This Regulation applies only with respect to othe aber listed in 
schedule 1. . 


Parameter Limits 


3.-(2) The daily plant loading limits for process effluents, 
listed in column 3 of schedule 2 for a rae ah s Sones shall not 
be exceeded for any SITE NEAT day. 


(2) The monthly average plant loading timits for process. 
effluents, listed in column 4 of schedule 2 fora SEES saree a 
shall not be exceeded. for any month." 


(3) The pencentra tion of hydrogen ion in “Sar process effluent 
monitoring stream at a discharger’s plant at the point of discharge of 
that effluent to a surface water, shall be controlled so that the Ph 
value (analytical test cRTS of. each stream is not outside the ~ 
‘range of 6.0 to 9.5. - 


(4) A direct Aechernen shall not discharge a Sracecal effluent from 
ene discharger’s plant except senseets a tied effiuent monitoring . 
strean. 


Adsorbable PEE Eue Halide (20x) Limits 


-* (5). Each direct discharger ‘for which. a limit for AOX is: listea in 
columns 3 and 4 of schedule 2 for that discharger’ s plant, shall 
ensure that on the day after this regulation is filed, the daily plant 
loading and: the monthly average loading for the parameter AOX at that 
discharger’s plant, calculated in accordance with section 8, does not. 
exceed the "day one" limit for AOX listed in columns 3 and 4 ; 
Respect ae of . schedule 2 for that cischarger: a plant. — 


(By Each direct discharger for which a Limit for AOX is listed in 
columns 3 and 4 of schedule 2 for that discharger’s plant, shall 
ensure that by the thirty-first day of December, 1995, the daily plant 
loading and the monthly average loading for the parameter AOX at that 
discharger’s plant, calculated in accordance with section 8, does not 
exceed the "December 31, 1995" limit for AOX listed in columns 3 and 4. 
4 respectively, of schedule 2 for that discharger’ S Sth: E 


(7) Each direct discharger for which a‘ limit for ‘AOX is listed in - 
columns 3 and 4 of schedule 2 for that discharger’s plant, shall 
ensure that by the thirty-first day of December, 1999, the daily plant 
loading and the monthly average loading for the parameter AOX at that 


Vee 


5 ae : | =i 
‘DraftP&P.Jan,1993 te ee ik oe ecu She 
_discharger’s plant, calculated in accordance with: section 8, does not 


exceed the "December 31, 1999" limit for AOX listed in columns 3 and 
4, respectively, of schedule e for that discharger’ s plant. as 


- (8). Each direct’ ai ncneraer shall from time to time as requested by 


the director, provide the Director with plans, schedules and progress 


reports for achieving the requirements of subsections (6) and (7). 
7 jestbaliey ‘Limits 


4. as Each direct discharger ghall ‘control. the’ Clemens of Gach | 
process effluent monitoring stream and each cooling water effluent 
monitoring stream at the discharger’s plant to ensure that any rainbow 


. trout acute lethality test or any Daphnia magna acute lethality test. 


performed on any grab sample under section 9 results in mortality tore 
no more than fifty Bencent of the test cas ame in one-hundred 
percent effluent. Rive 


Sampling and Analytical: Procedures 


5.-(1) For the purposes of this Regulation, the location of nea : 
' points and. sampling and analysis including quality control sampling. 

. and analysis, shall be performed in accordance with the procedures 
described in the Ministry publication entitled "Protocol:-for the 
Sampling and- Analysis of Marine bere Municipal Wastewater" Ghia 
October, 1991. Aah ; 

(2) Each. direct di ccnarqer shail maintain the sampling equipment 
used at designated sampling points at a direct discharger’s plant ina 
way that ensures the collection of eeoneiee that are characteristic of 

the effluent. : 


Sampling Points 


6.-(1) Each direct discharger: shall, within ninety days of this 
Regulation coming into force or within thirty days of the stream 
coming into existence, whichever is later, ensure that a sampling - 
point is established on each process effluent stream ‘at the © 
discharger’s plant in accordance with the peeked point location 
requirements of. subsection (5)- a ; 


ae) A direct discharger need) not establish a feene ting) point ona 

_ process effluent stream that flows into another process effluent 

- stream if the samples collected at the sampling point on the merged 
stream are characteristic: of the effluent in whe cana ease eh stream. 


‘ 

DraftPéP. Jan, 1993 | 

(3). - If the samples. collected ata reeiien point « ‘on the more ‘stream 
cease to be characteristic of the effluent in the contributing strean, 


the direct discharger shall, within thirty days of the change, ensure 
that a sampling Stet is established on coe contributing strean. ; 


g 


(4) For the purposes of subsections (2) andl (3),:;a sample collected 
" ata sampling point on a merged stream is characteristic of the. 
effluent in a contributing stream if analysis of the sample from the 
merged stream would consistently yield a positive analytical result . 
for every limited parameter: for which a sample from the contributing | 
stream taken in the same way at the same time would yield a positive ‘9 


analytical LEE ee 


(5). A sampling = giles on a Procesm effluent A hai pe. 
established at a. location on the stream that, bearer 


. (a) allows the eoitection of samples representative of the: 
effluent in the stream; : 


(b) is downstream of final treatment on the stream) it any; 


(c) in the case of a stream that. goes. through treatment, is 
upstream of any mixing with cooling water effluent or stormwater 
effluent Ceres eet) after final treatment: on the stream; and 


(ad) in the case of a stream that does nee go through any 
treatment, is upstream of any mixing with Spchaes Seae nr rarer 
water effluent or stormwater errluent: ate 


(6) Each direct ajecnereer shall, within ninety days of this 
Regulation coming into force or within: thirty days of the stream 
coming into existence,. ensure that a sampling point is established on 
each cooling water effluent stream at the discharger’s plant in. : 
accordance with che. sampling. aa location ee of subsection 


(8). 


(7). Subsections (2) to (4) apply eich necessary modifications to. 

cooling water effluent streams and, for the purpose, a reference in 
subsections (2) 'to (4) to a process effluent stream shall be deemed to 
be a reference to a. cooling water ASC: strean. "A 


(8) A sampling peiat on a cooling watery effluent stream shall be os 
established at a. location on the stream that, eore - 


(a) _allows the collection of samples representative of the 
effluent in the stream; "and ; Y : 


(b) is. upstream of any mixing with Process: effluent or stormvater 
ert sent: : . 


‘ Cea 
“raftper. Jan,1993, oe | EERO I at See AT 


(9) Within ninety days after this Regulation comes into force, each 
direct discharger shall submit to the Director a list and plot plan 
- showing the sampling points required to be established within that 
ninety day period under. subsections (2) and (6). 


(10) If a sampling point established on a direct Watncnnr cer s stream 
no longer meets the sampling point location requirements of this 
‘section or no longer permits the collection of samples from the stream 
as required by this Regulation, whether because of a process change, 
an installation of a waste treatment works, an alteration of a waste’ 
treatment works, a redirection of an effluent stream or any other 
change, the direct discharger shall, as soon as is reasonably — 
possible, establish an alternate sampling point on the stream in 

- accordance:with the brane point location edt een ce of this 


section. 


(11). x direct discharger may replace a sampling point established on 
- a stream under this section with an alternate sampling point at a new 
- location on the. stream, so long as the alternate sampling point 

accords with the cherish onde poinpeocaS.cn requirements of this section. 


(12) As soon as is reasonably possible but in. any case within thirty | 
days after establishing a new sampling point under subsection (1), 
(3), (6), (7), (10) or (11), the direct discharger shall give the 

_ Director a written notice describing the location of the new sampling 
point, together with a revised version of the list and plot plan 
submitted ‘under subsection (9) showing the new sampling point. 


(13) Subject to subsection 16.-(2)., each direct discharger shall use 
the sampling points established under this section . for Nats sampling 
required ay this Sth hean ; 


‘Calculations - Loadings — 


7 <6=(1)-° For the purposes of performing a ‘calculation under. sections 8 
_and 9, a direct discharger shall use the actual. BES AES result . 
obtained by the ge DOE a OEY. 


(2) Despite subsection Pei. fiers the aerual reinetcat result is — 
less than one-tenth of the analytical method detection limit set out 
in the Ministry publication entitled "Protocol for the Sampling and 
Analysis of Industrial/Municipal Wastewater". dated. Octobér, 1991, the - 

direct discharger shall use the value zero for the purpose ona 
pet LOS Rng a calculation under this section. — agin 


(3) Each direct discharger shall ensure that each nates tion 
required by this section is performed as soon as possible after the 
analytical result on which eae calculation is: based pecones: available 
to the discharger. ; 


5 Sareea Ss 


‘ 
DraftPEP. Jan,1993 : ae ee ea te be Ai ape 8 
Calculations - Reference Production Rates 


‘7a.-(1) Commencing in 1996 and theresteer each year, each direct 
discharger may calculate a revised reference production rate for 
bleached pulp, tales finished product for that discharger’ s plant. Re 


(2) For the purposes of subsection (1),. the reference production: 
rate for any year for bleached pulp is equal to the highest value of 
the 90th percentile of the daily production of bleached eee at -the 
discharger’s plant for any of the Previous three years. 


(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), the reference production 
rate for any year for finished product is equal to the highest value 
of the 90th percentile of the daily production of finished product at. 
the . discharger’ s plant for any of the previous three. years. 


(4) The 90th percentile of the daily production of finished prosden 
at a plant for a year is the statistically derived value that is equal 
to the quantity of finished product, produced daily by the plant, that 
was exceeded on 10 seitecuhe of the aGeye ate the plant she aah in the | 
ea 


(5) For the purposes of subsections (2) and REY the finished 
product is the tonnes of pulp or paper product that has completed the | 
production process ata tet he, and is calculated on an air-dry basis. — 


(6) Each direct discharger that calculates a revised reference 
production rate under subsection (1), shall notify the Director, in > 
writing, no later than the thirty-first day of January of each year 
of the value of the revised reference ahha charac rate. 3 


} calculations - Revised Paraneter Limits 


7b.-(1) ‘Commencing in 1996 and thereafter ‘each year, each direct 
discharger may calculate revised Petters limits for atthe Ciao s 
plant. . . . 


(2) For the purposes of BuneeCtion (1), aerat lees daily. loading limit 
and a revised monthly average loading limit for each parameter shall be 
Calculated by multiplying the revised reference production rate as 
calculated under section 7a., by the respective daily and monthly unit 
of production loading limits for each parameter as set out in schedule — 
2A for the respective SRE? for .the secooaree s plant. 


@) Each direct discharger that calculates revised: parameter limits 
under subsection (1) shall notify the Director, in writing, no later 
than the thirty-first day of. ipbatbercted of each -yeary of the value of the 
revised parameter limits. - : : . 

(4) For the purposes of section 3(1), 7 the epee: daily loading 
limits calculated under subsection ey small replace. the respective 


t 


t:* Base 5 
DraftPéP.Jan, 1993 isn Par ie ae tele gene cate Cle are hax, PG) 
daily loading limits listed in column 3 of Schedule 2: — 


(5) For the purposes of section 3(2), the revised monthly average 
loading limits. calculated under. subsection (1) shall -replace the 
respective monthly ever age MOLISE E limits listed in Becbiie 4 of Schedule 
2. : 


Caicuiation ef precens we popeah vende 


8.-(1) Each direct discharger shall calculate, in kilograms, a daily 
process effluent stream loading for each limited parameter in each 

. process effluent stream of the discharger for each day on which a 
sample is collected under poe ert arian om the stream for analysis 
for. ae SLUICE igh 


(2) When calculating a daily stream Noadincecnder, eUveact ion nos, 
the direct discharger shall multiply,: with suitable adjustment of 
units to yield a-result in kilograms, the analytical result obtained . 
- from the sample for the parameter by the total volume. of effluent . 
discharged on the aave or On ere strean. 


(3) For char purposes of pubsention an ene total volume of 
effluent discharged on an operating day from an SCE stream is the 
volume as calculaced under . lahat 23.° ; . . 


(4) Each: direct acecneroar ‘shall. calculate ‘a daily. process effluent 
plant loading for each limited parameter for each day: in respect of 
which the discharger is required to calculate a Gaily atari ee 
_ stream loading under subsection (1). 


(5). For the purposes of subsection (4), a daily process. fectiuents 
“plant loading for a parameter for a day is the sum, in kilograms, of 

the daily stream loadings for the parameter calculated: under 
subsection. (1) for the day. af 


(6) Where a direct discharger . calculates ‘only one Faatiy. process. 
effluent stream loading under subsection (1), the daily process 
effluent plant loading for the purposes of ‘subsection (4) is the 
sng Te daily process eos stream loading. . 


(7) Each direct avacnarger ‘shall calculate, in. kilograms, a eeenTe 
average process effluent plant loading for each limited parameter for 
each month in which a sample is collected under this Regulation more. 
‘than once from a process effluent ‘stream at the econ sy s Daate for 
analysis for the. parameter. . : 


_ (8) ° For the. purposes of. subsection (7), ‘a monthly average process 
effluent plant loading for a parameter for a month is the arithmetic 

-mean of the daily process effluent plant loadings for Boe parameter 
calculated under: ‘subsection. (4) for the month. 


é 


DraftP&P.Jan,1993 eae | eM enae ay: rer 
calculation of cooling Water Effluent Loadings . 


9.-(1) Each direct aTeonareen shall eaticulatat in kilograms, a daily 
_cooling water effluent stream loading for each Schedule 3 parameter in’ 
each cooling water effluent stream of the discharger for each day on 
which a sample is collected under this ary from the stream for 
analysis for Bee parameter. — : } 


(2) When Caloulaning a. daily stream rosaing: under subsection (1), 
‘the direct. discharger shall multiply, with suitable adjustment of 
units to yield a result in kilograms, the analytical result obtained 
‘from the sample for the parameter by the total volune of effluent 
‘discharged on the Bay from. the ‘stream. 


(3) For the purposes of subsection (2); the total ‘volume of 
effluent discharged on an operating day from an ee stream is the 
volume as calculated under section 23%. 


(4) Each direct discharger isha calculate a Vanity coolines water 
effiuent plant loading for each: Schedule 3 parameter: for each day in 
respect of which the discharger is required to calculate a daily : 
cooling water effluent stream EERE! under subsection (2); is 


(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), a daily cooling water 
effluent plant loading for a parameter for a day is the sum, in 
kilograms, of the daily stream gag Se a. ‘for the Dee eas calculated — 
under subsection (1) for the day. 

(6) Where | a: direct discharger calculates iy one daily ‘coaltneae 
water effluent stream loading under subsection (1), the daily cooling 
water effluent plant loading for the purposes of subsection (4) is the 
single daily cooling sts effluent stream loading... 


(7) Each direct Qi gchererl shall calculate, in kilograms, a “monthly: 
average cooling water effluent plant Beckers for each Schedule 3 
parameter for each meri s 


(8) For: the purposes of subsection (ayiiat monthly average Goolinam 
water effluent plant loading for a parameter for a month is the 
arithmetic mean of the daily cooling water effluent plant mercer for 
the parameter calculated under subsection (4). for the aoe 


Monitoring 


10.-(1) For. the purposes of this Regulation, composite samples of © 
process effluent and cooling water effluent shall be collected and 
analyzed in accordance with the procedures described in the. Ministry - 
publication entitled "Protocol for the Sampling and Analysis’ of 
pabapaiee aor hearin Wastewater" dated MRAS tS: 1991. 


| 
“DraftPap. Jan,1993° s ie | Besse i eh a ese, Te 


(2) Where a direct faiechnt ar is required under this Regulation 
to collect composite ° Sec, those samples shall be collected over an 
dt ete day. . fare \§ 


(3) Despite subsection (2), where a direct discharger has more 
than one process effluent monitoring stream and is required on an 
operating day to collect a composite sample from each stream at the 
discharger’s plant, the discharger may designate any period of twenty- 
four consecutive hours for each stream provided that the discharger; 


i. specifies to the Director in writing no later than 
thirty days after this Regulation comes into force, the 
sampling. commencement time for each stream and ~ 

maintains those times. from day to See and 


ii. commences ‘the sampling of all streams on the | same ; 
S getenaar day. 


(4) Where a direct discharger has more than one process effluent 
monitoring stream and is required on an operating day to collect a set 
of samples from each stream at the discharger’ s plant, the discharger 
shall collect all Sones in the set from each stream on the same 
operating Oayie ea 


(5) Despite subsection (2), where a fect discharger has more 
than one cooling water effluent monitoring stream and is required on 
an operating day to collect a composite sample from each stream at the 
discharger’s plant, the discharger may designate any period of. twenty- 
four consecutive hours for each stream provided that the discharger, 


i. . specifies to the Director in writing no later than 

_thirty days after this Regulation comes into force, the 
sampling commencement time for each stream and 
maintains those times eek day to Cae and 


ii. commences the sampling of all streams on ‘the same 
’ Aer re day. 


(6) Where a direct discharger has more than one cooling water . 
effluent monitoring. stream and is required on: an operating day to . 
collect a set of samples: from each stream at the discharger’s plant,. 
“the discharger shall collect all samples in the set from each: stream 
on the same operating day. 


(7). A: direct discharger shall use ‘all. renaonabie erfarts co ensure 

that all analyses required by this Regulation are completed as soon as 
‘possible and that the results of those Stier fod are made available to. 
et discharger as soon as possible. 


‘ 
DraftPEP. Jan, 1993 igeve hein? Lax “ela 


pera ee - Process Effluent. - Daily Limits 


11.-(1) Each direct Avecnader shall collect a set of samples from 
each process effluent sampling point during each operating day, and 
shall analyze each set of samples for the parameters for which the 
frequency of monitoring, set out in column. 2 of declare 2 for the 
discharger’s ieee is daily. ; 


(2) #oA direct discharger need not meet the requirements of 
subsection - (1) where it is impossible to ‘do so because of sampling ny 
a provincial officer. — ie 


Monitoring - “ Process Effluent = Weekly Limits 


12.-(1) Each qirect a ecnerger shall collect a set of samples from 
each process effluent sampling point on one operating day during each 
week, and shall analyze each set of samples for the parameters for 
which the frequency of monitoring, set out in eRe) 2. Of. schedule io 
for the SENSE ESE 5” s plant, is weekly. 


(2). For the purposes of subsection (1), a set ‘of eamilest 
collected from a process effluent sampling point after the first set 
- Of samples is collected from that point shall be collected no sooner 
than three days after the previous sampling from that sampling point. 


7 ont tla Process Effluent - Crna Limits 


13.-(1) Each direct ai echarder shall collect a’ eatl of éamcieel on 
each process effluent sampling point on one operating day during each 
quarter, and shall analyze each set of samples for the parameters for 
which the frequency of monitoring, set out in column = of schedule 2 
for the discharger’ s plant, ‘is quarterly. © : 


: (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), ‘a set of eaanies 
collected from a process effluent sampling point. after the first set 

of samples is collected from that point shall be collected no sooner 

ar SSCL) days. ‘after the previous epee ste that ae 
pou ‘ 


un cen reciuent ~ nesuoad 2 Frequency. 


14.-(1) Where, for ‘twelve consecuctce months of monitoring under 
subsection 11(1), the monthly average plant loading of a daily .. 4 
parameter is equal to or less than fifty percent of the limit for the 
parameter as set out in column 4. of schedule 2 for a direct ‘a 
discharger’s plant, the frequency of EISEASEEST for: the. parse may 
be reduced to three times per i Tose 


Ls 
DraftPEP. Jan, 1993 oe ere eae Rig es 7 


(2) ° Subsection 1 ceases to aot if the monthly average plant 
loading of a parameter is greater than fifty percent of the limit eschs 
the parameter as set out in column 4 of schedule 2 for the 
- @ischarger’s plant, for two consecutive months and the discharger 

shall instead sample in accordance with the oe rb ee of subsection 
11(1). dir 


(3) here for uel verconascutive months of monitoring under 
subsection 12(1), the monthly average plant loading of a weekly | 
parameter is equal to or less than fifty percent of. the limit for the 
parameter as set out in column 4 of schedule.2 for a direct | 
‘ discharger’s plant, the frequency he Ciba for the parameter may 
. be reduced to bi-weekly. - . 


—(4)— Subsection (3) ceases to apply if the onthe average plant 
loading of a: parameter: is greater than fifty percent of the limit for 
the parameter as set out in column: 4 of schedule 2 for the 
- discharger’s plant, for two consecutive months and the discharger 
shall instead crema in accordance with the ae od enence. of subsection 
12(1)- 


(5) AD Sairact discharger shall. notify the Wirecvos in writing of 
any-changes in the frequency of monitoring at the discharger’s plant 
made under subsections (1) through (4), within seen’ ee after the 
day on which a change Stil hey ies 


‘Monitoring - Process Effluent - ga siento 


18.-(1) . Each cece Wala heroes shall collect or. prepare | the quality 

control samples required by subsections (2) and. (3) in accordance with 

the procedures described in the Ministry publication entitled 

' “Protocol. for the Sampling and Analysis of pena eae ee 
Wastewater" dated October, 1991. , cits 


(2) Once per year, each airect faiecharcer shall collect from one 
process effluent sampling point at the discharger’s plant, a duplicate 
or replicate sample for each sample collected on that day from that | 
sampling point. under subsection 12(1), and shall analyze each | 
duplicate or replicate sample for the parameters .for which the . 
frequency of monitoring set out. in. column 2 of schedule oa for the 
een ea s pian is weekly. : f 


KES )ee i: once per year, on the day ¢ on ‘which duoiicate or raniicace 
‘samples are collected .under subsection (2), each direct discharger 
shall prepare a travelling blank and travelling spiked blank barat 
for each sample collected on that day from one process effluent - 
sampling point under subsection 12(1), and shall analyze the =. 
travelling blank and travelling, ‘spiked blank . sample for the: parameters 
_for which the frequency of monitoring set. out in column 2 of I 
2 for the lata a ear oma is eee: | :: 


‘i Sos 
DraftP&P.Jan,1993 Seaameies oF ee | AS oS See elae Le 


(4) A direct discharger need not anaivee a. travelling. blank 
sample collected under subsection (3) for parameters in analytical 
test groups (ATGs) 3 and 8 listed in schedule 1 of the Ministry 
' publication entitled "Protocol for the Sampling and Analysis of 
industrial/Municipal Wastewater", October, 1991. . 


(5) A direct discharger shall only analyze a travelling spiked 
blank sample collected under subsection (3). for parameters in 
analytical test groups (ATGs) 16 to 20, 23 and 26 listed in ‘schedule 19 
of the Ministry publication entitled "Protocol for the Sampling and » 
poy Sey of Industrial/Municipal Wastewater", October, 1991. 


Monitoring | - Process Effluent - pH Measurement 


16.-(1) Each direct discharger shall ensure that the pH of each 
_. process effluent monitoring stream at the discharger’s plant is | 
_ Measured during each operating Gay 7) Beane an on-line Ro 


(2) For the purposes of this section, a direct Riecharden shall use — 
either the sampling point established under section 6:on the stream or 
an alternate sampling point located downstream of the sampling point 
but before the sehess of discharge of the stream. to surface water. — 


(3). ‘Before using an alternate sampling point under subsection 2, 
a direct discharger shall give the Director a written notice 
describing the location of the alternate sampling point, together with 
a revised version of the list and plot plan submitted under subsection 
nee showing the alternate sampling bon : q 


(4) If an on-line analyzer used by a direct idiscnarger for the 
purpose of measuring pH under this section is not operational due to a 
problem of malfunction, maintenance or calibration for a period of - : 

more than twenty-four consecutive hours, for every subsequent 
- operating day that the on-line analyzer-is not :operational, that. 
discharger shall instead collect eight grab samples throughout . each _ 
operating day, at approximately three-hour intervals, from the as 
sampling point on which the analyzer is located, and shall analyze . 
each connie for the parameter. PH. 


Monitoring = "Aeute Lethality testing ~ Bainbow Trent ae 


17.-(1) Where a direct discharger is ereqaired to ar rora a rainbow 
trout acute lethality test, the discharger shall perform the test 

‘according to the procedures described in the Environment Canada aa 
publication entitled "Reference Method for Determining Acute ee fest! } 
of Effluents to Rainbow Trout" dated July's 1990. = 


(2) Once. in each month and on the same operating day, faxes direct - 
Secharders shall Co ece a gee conte) from each oe ceae effluent - 


ae 
DraftP&P.Jan,1993 4 DOE is area adel ca( oh cee 150 


_. sampling point and each cooling water effluent .sampling point at the 
discharger’s plant, and shall perform a rainbow Se acute lethality 
test on (etek Sete : 


(3) ° Each direct faecharved shall carry out each rainbow mrone 
acute lethality test as a single concentration test being one hundred 
percent effluent and shall record the result. — ) | 


(4) For the purposes of subsection (2), a sample collected from a 
sampling point after the first sample is collected from that point 
shall be collected no sooner than fifteen oa after the previous 
sampling fron that’ sampling point. : 


(5) » Where a direct discharger. has colar a twelve consecutive 
tests under subsection (2) on a sample collected from the same 
sampling point and the mortality of the rainbow trout in each test has 
not. exceeded fifty percent, the discharger is relieved of the 
obligations under subsection (2) and may instead collect a grab sample 
- once per quarter from that sampling point and. aware a rainbow trout 
acute PONSA SBy test on wees soupie- 


(6) -For the purposes aye subsection (5), a sample collected. from a 
-. sampling point after the first sample is collected from that point . 


. shall be’ collected no sooner than forty-five GAYE after Makes Previous 
sampling from that sampling poses ; 


(7) ‘te a rainbow trout acute aeehality, test pierre under 
subsection (5) on any sample from a sampling point results in 
mortality for more than: fifty percent of the test fish, subsections 
(5) and (6) cease to apply in respect to samples from that sampling 
point, and a direct discharger shall instead test in accordance with 
the requirements _of . subsection (2). until the tests performed under | 
subsection (2) on all samples from that sampling point for a further 
_ twelve consecutive months result in Boas oy for no more than fifty 
ees of the fish for. each test. 


(8) — Where etairect discharger reasonably believes aye the BES 
Peecing of an effluent stream would result in mortality to more than 
fifty percent of the test fish,. the discharger shall so acknowledge to 
the Director in writing, and is. then relieved of the obligations to 
perform.a rainbow trout acute lethality. test under subsection (2) 
oes section 4 of this regulation poner into force. 


(9) For the purposes of subsection (2),. each direct cierrere ; 
shall collect each sample from each process effluent sampling point at 
the discharger’s plant on one of the days on which a set of samples is 

collected at the See s Ett under subsections (12 (1) or 14(3). 


'(10): For the purposes of subsections (5) ‘ana (7), a direct | 
discharger shall notify the Director in writing of any changes. in the 
frequency of acute lethality testing at the discharger’s plant, within : 
thirty eh after ie day on which a ats occurs. — a 


‘ 
DraftPéP. Jan,1993 | 3 ie anes | 16 
Monitoring - Acute Lethality wasting - Daphnia Magna | 


18.-(1) Where a arecr a lacnarees is eat hei this ‘Regulation to 
perform a Daphnia magna acute lethality test, the discharger shall | 
perform the test according to the procedures. described in the 
Environment Canada publication entitled "Reference Method for 
Determining Acute Lethality of Eri lven to Daphnia magna" dated July, 
HEEM 


(2) subsections 17(2) to (10). apply with necessary eoaiticatione 
to Daphnia magna — acute lethality tests. his 


(3). Each direct discharger shall collect all samples requires by 
rainbow trout acute SSSR ERE tests Oe E2BDELA magne acute Lethal, 
tests on the same day. 


enivecine Chronic Toxicity Testing - Ceriodaphnia 


. 19.-(1): Where a direct discharger is required to perform a 7-day 
Ceriodaphnia reproduction inhibition and survivability test, the ae 
discharger shall perform the test according to the procedure described 
in the Environment Canada publication entitled. "Test of Reproduction. ~ 
and. Survival bee the Cladoceran Seriodaphnia dubia" dated February, 
1992. ; 


(2) Once in eact Semi -annuat period ana on the same operating 
day, each direct discharger shall collect a grab sample from each 
process effluent sampling point and each cooling water effluent 
sampling point at the discharger’s plant, and shall perform a-7-day | 
Ceriodaphnia reproduction inhibition and Brame mers test on each 
ti eh a 

(3) For cree purposes. of subsection (2), a Peas collected from a 
sampling point after the first sample is collected from that. point 
shall be collected no sooner than ninety ale after the Previcoss 
St SENS Ase from that ey point. xo 


(4) | Subsection (2) does not apply’ anti ttwelvel consecutive 


monthly rainbow trout and Daphnia magna acute lethality tests 


performed on samples collected from process effluent and once-through 
cooling water effluent sampling points at a direct discharger’s prt 
result in mortality for no more than fifty percent of che Leary 
organisms in one hundred Lagann effluent. 


(5) For the purposes of subsection (2), each direct discharger — 
shall collect each sample from each process effluent sampling point at 
the discharger’s plant on one of the days on which a set of samples is 
collected at the discharger’s plant under subsections 12(1) or 14(3). © 


. 
a DraftPéP. Jan, 1993. ne : pe aN oth ane | 17 


Monitoring - Chronic Toxicity Testing =. ‘Pathead Minnow 


- 20.-(1). "Where a direct discharger is required to perform a. 7-day. 

‘' fathead minnow growth inhibition test, the discharger shall perform 
the test according to the procedure described in the Environment — 
Canada publication entitled "Test of Larval Growth and Survival Using 
Fathead Minnows" dated February, 1992. 


_ .(2) Subsections 19(2) to (5) ‘apply, with necesaary SEER GA GN S: 
. to fathead minnow chronic: AE RIEAS f tests. ie 


Paes) ine ‘Each ‘direct Aeecnarcded shall ‘collect Paik samples Peete by 
Ceriodaphnia chronic toxicity tests and pocneao minnow chronic ; 
Poca tC ety tests on the same day. — . aa oe 


meatier = EE as = mesk?y, Assessment. 


| 21.-(1) j Each ‘direct discharger shall collect: a'set of samples. from 
each cooling water effluent sampling point at the discharger’s plant 


- om one operating day during each week, and shall then analyze each set 


of samples for the parameters listed in schedule 3 for the 
ao s plant. ¢ av 


(2) -.For the purposes ‘of Bunseet ion (ay a set of samples 
collected from a cooling water effluent sampling point after the first 
set of samples is collected from that point shall be collected no. 
sooner than ek days after. the previous cane ata! from \eatite pemoent 
Boclae 


_ ‘Flow meararennt 


Be) subject oat subsection [eA ep ‘each direct discharger shall 
determine in cubic metres the daily volume of.effluent in each process 
effluent monitoring stream at the. discharger’ s plant throughout each 
operating. GRY; by peed re eton of continuous flowrate measurements. 


Pan 2:) A direct discharger that has process effluent monitoring 
: streams that discharge on an intermittent basis throughout. an 
operating day at the discharger’s plant, shall determine the daily. 
volume of effluent from each of the streams throughout an operating 
day, either. by integration of continuous flowrate measurements or by utes 
the summation of individual batch volume measurements. 


(3) Each Neri ‘discharger shail use “flow measurement mathoda) 
_ which allow the volume of effluent discharged from each process 
- effluent -monitoring stream at the discharger’ s plant to be determined 


_ to an ae aney. of wichin oS OE minus fifteen percen . 


« : 
DraftP&P.Jan, 1993 We ey Tee Pe: SOA iar ie ae 18 


(4) Each direct discharger shall Aocern ine the ‘daily volume in 
cubic metres of effluent in each cooling water effluent monitoring 
stream at the discharger’ s plant, throughout each operating day on . 
which a set of samples is collected TOE analysis under section 21% 


(5) | Each direct discharger shall use flow measurement methods 
“which allow the volume of effluent discharged from each cooling aS ee 
effluent monitoring stream at that discharger’s plant, to be 


determined to’an accuracy of within plus or minus twenty percent. 


(6) Each direct discharger shall, no later than the day that 
this section comes into force, determine by calibration methods or 
confirm by means of a certified report of a registered professional 
engineer of the Province of Ontario that each flow measurement method | 
or system used under subsections (1) and (2) meets the accuracy | 
requirements of subsection (3). and those used under subsection (Sh 
' meet the accuracy: requirements of subsection Oy 


(7) Where a direct discharger installs a new flow measurement 
method or system or alters an existing flow measurement method or 
system, the discharger shall determine by calibration methods. or. 
confirm by means of a certified report of a registered professional 
engineer of the Province of Ontario that each new:or altered . 
flow measurement method or system meets the accuracy requirements of 
- either subsections (3) or subsection (5) within two weeks after the | 
AM on which the new or altered method or system is used. 


(8) 2. Each direct discharger shall davelor ana implement a 
maintenance schedule and a calibration schedule for each flow 
measurement system installed at that discharger’s plant and shall 
Maintain each flow OREO NS system reheat st] to good operat 
practices. . 


(9). Each dicect Hahaha: use ae to set 
up flow measurement bh fer NS can be pie De by. a provincial 


officer. 


Calculations of Effluent Volumes | 


23.-(1) Each aivect discharger: ‘shall oR GarAraee in cubic metres, a 
Chae process effluent plant MAE for COSEE day. ee 


(2) For the purposes of subeserion (1), a ‘process effluent panel 
volume for a day is the sum of the eee volumes calculated under 
section 22 in respect of the day. | 


_ (3) Each direct discharger shall eT TeE aye in cubic metres, a 
monthly average process effluent plant volume for each month, by 
taking the arithmetic mean of the daily process effluent. plant volumes 
calculated under subsection (1) for the month. at 


‘ . 
_ DraftPsP.Jan,1993 SS ee ee ae Ss Re 19. 
(4). Each direct discharger shall calculate, in cubic metres, a daily 
Cool tag water effluent EEGs volume for each day. © ; 


(5) FOF. the purposes of subsection (4), a cooling water effluent 
plant volume for a day is the sum-of the daily volumes calculated 
under section 22 in respect oe the gaye, 


(6) - Each direct discharger aRaTY ealcdinta:: in cubic metres? ale 
monthly average cooling water effluent plant volume for each month, by 


taking the arithmetic mean of the daily cooling water. effluent plant 
7 volumes calculated under subsection (4). for the EIR. 


eat Pane 


24.-(1) Each direct discharger shall complete a storm water control 


~~ study in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry publication 


entitled "Storm Water control SEOGy Protocol", dated August, 1992. 


(2) Where a direct discharger. meets the exemption criteria set 
out in the Ministry publication entitled "Storm Water Control Study 
Protocol, 4 dated August, 1992, . the discharger shall.so notify the © 
Director in writing, no. later than one year after this Regulation 
comes into force, and is eines aoc ame from the peda emeic! of 
subsection | (1). 


(3) A diréct Si ecnercer, shal? Gemplete che storm water control 
study required by subsection (1) no later than two hehaechi after this 
Regulation comes into force. 


(4) Where, in order ts meet the requirements of section 3 or 4 
of this regulation, a direct discharger plans to make process changes, 
install waste water treatment facilities, implement management | 
practices, or make any other changes at the discharger’s plant that 
will alter the quantity or: quality of storm water discharged from the 
plant, a discharger may delay the completion of the storm water i 
‘control study as required under subsection (3) and shall notify the 
Director accordingly, in CEE ibs) no later than two yeas oy after this - 
Regulation comes into. force. Sha: 


(5): A direct discharger that notifies Phepivcctor inden 
subsection (4) shall complete the storm water control study required - 
by subsection (1) no later than one year after sections 3 and 4 of 
this regulation come -into force. tae 


4, 
A 


DraftP&P.Jan,1993 | a ee = 20) 


Record Keeping © 


25.-(1) Each direct discharger shall keep the records required to be 


kept under subsections (4) to (7) in an electronic format acceptable 
to the Director, and shall, from time to time, make these records 
available in an electronic format to the Ministry during normal. — 
working. hours. , aon 


(2) Each direct Hipchercer: shall ines records of the locations 


of all sampling points established in CEREUS with the patel 2 


of section 6. 


(3) Each direct ‘discharger shall keep records of all samplingn 
and analytical procedures used in meeting the requirements of - 
section 5, including, for each sample, the date, the time of . 
collection, the sampling procedures used, and any incidents likely to. 
affect the analytical results. . 


(4) z Each direct discharger shall keep records of all the “pesnies 
of monitoring for limits, quality control, and assessment performed in 
' accordance with the requirements of sections 11 Ehr oughly and 21. 


(5) Each direct. discharger shall keep records of pH measurements 


performed in accordance with the requirements ot section 16. 


(6) 3 Each direct discharger shall keep acordal of Aisi the results 


ef monitoring for acute lethality and chronic toxicity performed in 
accordance with the requirements of sections. 17 aches 20. 


(7) 2 Each direct discharger shall keep records of all flow . 
measurements and all. maintenance and calibration procedures carriéd 
out on each flow measurement system neces to .be performed under . 
section 22. — | = ee 


(8) Each direct ai senarcee shall. keep eecorde of all prone or. 
malfunctions related to sampling, chemical analysis, on-line analyzers 
for Ph measurement, acute lethality and chronic toxicity testing, or 
flow measurement systems, or, other problems that interfere with | 
fulfilling the requirements of this Regulation, detailing the date, 
duration and cause of each malfunction, and including a 168 Crean of 
any remedial action taken. 


(9) . Each ‘direct discharger ener keep records of any ainchanden of 


process effluent that is not discharged through a process effluent 
monitoring stream at the discharger’s plant, in contravention of 
section 3 of this regulation; detailing the date, duration,. cause and | 
nature of each cies : . 


. . 
a 


ss : 
" praftPéP.Jan, 1993) A Dir ae el Gi a 2 ae 


(10). Each direct discharger Era keep records of all neocesal 
changes and any redirection of ‘effluent streams chat affect the 


quality of any process effluent ‘monitoring etrens er cooling water: 
effluent monitoring stream at the discharger’ s plant. 


(lye | Each direct discharger shall keep. records. of the: daily . 
_ production for the Laan ters adhe in schedule 4 for the Gar etn teat ee s 
plant. | | | : ; | 


(12) . - Each direct diecnerdes shail keep all records required by 
this Regulation for a period of three years. | : 


-. (13) ~~ Each direct discharcer shall from time to time upon Peeeat. 
make records required to be kept under this section accessible to the 
Ministry Sarees normal: working hours. 


| Reporting 


- 26.-(2) Each direct discharger shall notify the Director in writing 

' of any change of name or ownership of the discharger’s plant occurring. 

- after the day this Regulation comes into force, within thirty meth 
after the end of the month in which the change occurs. . pg 


2). ' Each airere discharger shall, within 30 days, noel ret the 
Director in writing of all process changes and any redirection of or 
charige in the character of any effluent stream that. permanently 
affects the qualiry of any effluent stream at the discharger’ s plant. 


(3). Where an operating day. of a direct dischargér spans two 
calendar days, the discharger shall report the date of all sampling 
and flow measurements done on aoe operating’ day as Me first of the 
two calendar days. je) 


ee (4) On or before the first hey of ‘June. faach year, each direct 
‘discharger. shall. prepare a report including instances of non- ~ 
compliance and summarizing the results of all testing performed by the 
discharger during the previous calendar. year in accordance with the 
requirements of monitoring under sections 11 through 21 and 
measurement of flow under section 22, and shall make this report 
available at. the discharger’s ott cee reasonable hours for 
leet by the public.’ - : 


(5) A direct discharger shall motity. the Director. in writing, 
within thirty days, if the discharger’s plant has operated for more 

- than ninety consecutive days, at less than seventy-five percent of the 
. reference production rate Ag TRAN et in Schedule 4 for. the irene ea s 

plant. i a gave 


‘ 


‘ 
DraftP&P.Jan,1993 ts i ie Sho! Ele Ae aa 
Reporting - Compliance | | ; 


: (6). ‘A direct discharger. shall not ity the pirectsrs during Noome 
business hours and as soon as the results are available, if.for any 
parameter, a daily plant loading exceeds the limit specified in column 
.3 of schedule 2 or, a monthly average plant loading CESSES the limit 
SO aie in column 4 of schedule Serre : 


(7)- Where an on-line analyzer is used for the purposes of 
measuring pH under section 16, a direct discharger shall notify the 
Director, during normal business hours and-as soon as the results are 
available, if the discharger fails to meet the pH requirements of — 
section 3 for any period of more than fifteen consecutive minutes 
throughout an operating day, and shall notify the Director of the 
‘duration of the failure. / 


_ (8)- Deenite cuneertion LOR ye a airaee ‘aischarger need not notify - 
the Director if the failure to meet the pH requirements of ‘section 3 
is the result of a problem or malfunction related to the on-line 
analyzer or, the maintenance or calibration of the one analy eeu 


(9) - ' Where an. alternate method is used: for the purposes of 
measuring pH under section 16, a direct discharger shall notify the 
Director, during normal business hours, as soon as the results are 
-available, if the discharger os peta Mae PH Fan te Ett of 
' section 3. | : ; i eee 


— (10) A direct i gene shall AGtLTy the iDiractor ‘as soon as enal 
results are available, during normal business hours, if. the discharger 
fails. to vlas the Eisner limits of section 4. 


| pp are 
(121). Once in each quarter, each direct discharger shall report to 
_ the Director, in a format acceptable to the Director, all information 
required to be reported under subsections (12) through (19) in an 
electronic format, and by hard copy generated from that electronic 


format signed by: the direct discharger, no later than forty-five IBY 
after the and of the eavartes to which the information relates Aiea 


Pane Bey | 


(12) For process effluent monitoring streams, each direct 
ai scharnee shall report for each month, the monthly average plant © 
loadings and the maximum and ninimum daily plant: loadings for each of 
the parameters for which there is a limit at out in columns 3 Of. |e 
schedule 2 for the discharger’s ee yagi 


é 


Z< : 
| DraftPéP.Jan, 11993 ey S | pn Ae é 23 


(13) ° For process Pectlnant monitoring streams, a direct discharger 
‘shall report, for. any parameter, any daily plant loading that exceeded 
the limit specified in column 3 of schedule 2 and any monthly average 
plant loading that exceeded the limit. erected in column 4 of | 
schedule. 2, during any month. 


(14) For cooling water effluent poniteriad streams, each direct 
discharger shall report for each month, the monthly average plant 


_. loadings and the maximum and minimum daily plant loadings for each of . 


the parameters set out in schedule 3 for the discharger’s plant. 


(15) _ | - Each direct. discharger shall report an estimation of an 
average ‘pH range for each process effluent monitoring stream at the 
“ote patabae s > plant, for each month ‘auring the: Satan 


Plow Measurement , 


(16). For process effluent meni tacing ae ee ty, each direct 
discharger shall report the monthly average plant volume, and the 
CE and minimum, daily plant volumes for each month. — 


GET) acc For ‘cooling water. effluent monitoring streams, each As | 
discharger shall report the monthly average plant volume, and the 
maximum and minimum cally AAAS volumes for each month. 


(18). ‘Each direct Bice shall Vrece the auries of days 
- throughout each month on which effluent was discharged from eau: 
pPHOCGES) effluent monitoring hk Ta at 


(19). . Each. direct atacierces shall act the number of avs 
throughout each month on which effluent was eens from each 
SANE) water SEO mons Couend stream. 


"Reporting Srey rested 


(20) . Each direct reenter shall vepcre to the Director, as soon . 
- as is reasonably possible, any process effluent that is discharged 
other than through a process effluent: monitoring stream at the. 
discharger’s plant, detailing the Rate duration, cause and nature De 
each discharge. | 


5 
DraftPEP. Jan,1993..- - oS 5 PRR aa 24 
senereing - Chronic Toxicity Testing : 


(21) Each direct nlecueteas shall enone to the Director in 
writing, the results of all chronic toxicity testing performed under 
sections 19 and 20, together with the date on which each sample was 
collected, no later than sixty days after the end of each semi-annual» 
period in which the tests were Ltt hi = 


nepentine - AOX Elimination Plan (AEP) 


(22) Each direct discharger for which a limit for AOX is listed in 
column 3 of schedule 2 for that discharger’s plant shall, no later 
than 6 months after this regulation comes into force, submit to the 
Director an initial or preliminary plan which contains a preliminary 
schedule and outlines methods by which AOX generated from the | 
bleaching of wood fibre or recycled fibre at the Giacharets s Plage 
may be eliminated by the year 2002. 


(23) Each Aivect discharger for which a limit for. AOX is listed in 
‘column 3 of schedule 2 for that discharger’s plant shall, on or before 
December 31, 1995, submit to the Director an interim, "AOX Elimination 
Plan," prepared in accordance with the Part 1 requirements of schedule 
5 of this regulation, which describes the methods by which AOX. — 
generated from the bleaching of wood fibre or recycled fibre at the 
discharger’ s Peo may be eliminated by the year 2002. 


(24) Each direct discharger for which a’ Limit for AOX is listed inns 

column 3 of schedule 2 for that discharger’s plant shall, on or before 

December 31, 1998, submit to the Director a final "AOX Elimination 

Plan," prepared in accordance with the Part 1 requirements of schedule 

 § of this regulation, which. describes the methods by which the > 
-discharger proposes. to eliminate, by the year 2002, AOX generated | from 
Seip bleaching: of yopS fibre or a gee fibre at the ciecharieag Ss 

P. ant. 


(25) Each direct aiechacqareror anicn = Vimierer ‘AOX is ‘listed in 
column 3 of schedule 2. for that discharger’s plant, shall submit to 
the Director no later than the thirty-first day of December of the. 
year in which it is due, an annual status report and AEP update 
prepared in accordance with the aghom a of part 2 of schedule 5. 


fo 


‘DraftP&P.Jan,1993 : i ener tele Pare anaes Sipe 
| so Timing ae | 

-27.7(1) ‘Sections 46 ris) 5, ar 24 and subsection 3(5) and 26 (22): of 

this ‘Regulation come into force on the day it is filed. 4 


eo 8(2) Sections 7. through 23 and 25; and subsections 26 (1) ekecign! 
(5) and 26(11) ‘through (22),- come into force free days after this 
Regulation is filed. 


(3) ~~: Subsections 3(1) through (4) and (6), gections 4, Ja, 7b and 
subsections 26 (6) through. See ae and £25) c- ‘come anes force on — 
December 31, ak rectal ile 


(ie Subsection 26(24) comes ‘into. force on December 31, 1998. 


(5) Subsection 3 (7) comes into force. on. December ict. 1999. 


= 7) “1 


s : : : 
DraftP&P.Jan,1993 as “i toe OR a ae ieee 
| | LIST OF SCHEDULES rs | 


Schedule 1 = List of Regulated Plants in Sector 
Schedule: 2 — - Process - Effluent Limits 
Schedule 2A - Unit of Production Based Loading Limits. 
Schedule 3.  §- Assessment Monitoring Requirements 

Schedule 4 = Reference Production Rates — 
Schedule 5 


- - Requirements for AEP’s 
LIST OF PROTOCOLS — 


"Protocol for the Sampling and Analysis of ‘Industrial/Municipal 
Wastewater" (1991) 

"Storm Water Control Study Protocol" (1992) ; 
"Reference Method for Determining Acute Lethality of Effluents to | 
- Rainbow Trout" (1990) . be 
"Reference Method for Determining Acute Lethality of Effluents to 
Daphnia Magna"™ (1990) 

"Test of Reproduction and Survival. Using the ‘Cladoceran ¢ Ceri odaphnia 
dubia" (1992) 

"Test of Larval Growth and survival Using Fathead Minnows" (1992). 


ee Pa 


‘pr uopesodiog uewoy |: 


uojresodiog SELSNpU| Pupoqieded 


“pr Bpeued jo yejQ Ayequiyy |. 


‘Pry Bpeued jo yejD Ayequi}y 
QU] 1SGJO4 EPUBION 

oT sjonpold e104 fpp3'a'3 
UO|S|AIG Jedeg euj4 ‘dUj 1e}WOG 


‘pry Auedwod eiqi4 poo serBeg | 
“Pl lepeojg—ueyyoeyy | 


ne PsBoqieujewog ‘oul seWOG 
‘pr Auedwiog Jededg pus JeMod sye4 eoruds 


“ou sedeg shew ‘1S 


. ‘pry Ausduwiog sededg © 2 0 
‘Py] Bpeued epedsen esjog 

_  UOISIAIG S}}1B4 SfoNbos| OU] edUd—!qQNQY 
UO/SIAIG SIEdBq [BJDUIADIg OU} EO1g—IqINQY 
——- UOISIANG LUNIA YO “9U) Ed1d—1qnay 


ay Seta peomod DUS ding yes enojeW ‘oul eneeyy 


"PY] Bpeued jo ej Apequ} 


‘py] UojBseyy—JOEAY Sewer 

> “pyT sionpolg seso4 Appz 'g'3) 
. UOJSIAG PseOqueujEUOD "oUj 18)WOG 
Uo|s|G suede eUul4 “9Uj Je)WOG 


“PNT SyoNpodd Ses04 9j9eg U|peUReD 
‘PY SIONPOld ISOIO4 DIE ue|peueD 
_ Pr] epeued epeosed es}og 


686! ‘St INA 0 SV HSNMO, 


eoueden : 
. uQues | 


SOULBINED "IS 
eqASyUN 
PIOJOUL 
BMENO 
SOULIBIIED ‘IS 
, PIOJOUL 


“sired uoeBinig | 


‘uqquel, 
~ Buyseysndey 


GUeEW EIS WNeS | 


‘PIOJOUL 
.  * BsOUB>| 
sije4 sjonbau| 


.. . Aeg sepunuy | 


. Aeg sepuny 


/ $1184 490 WoowsS 
|. eg eveue) 


uoyeyy | 
_. ejousds3 


490 pel 


WeEMWOD- 
(Reg sepunyy 


ueplig 


en eee seouel4 Od | 


_NOIWOO} 


 BUODIPRAIS . 


os Peywif] CoOUDS 
eI — Apequuyy) 
 YeBIQ — Apequity 

Jesei4 


ae sionpoig se104 App3. 


: eae ae sueded euj4 seIWIOG 
@1Q|4 POOM soneeg 

_ *. fopeojg—ueNWoeW 

: . sewog 

: _ $je4 eonuds 

Fart slew ‘IS 


ogee Jeded oyeiug 9 2eqenH 


OPBIsBD es/0g 


eud—-1qIUgQY ||” 

MW NYY Yod eXg—IqNay || 
WIN WEI YO4 BO.d—IqHIQY 

i eee | 

yeIQ—Apequuyy |! 


JONNY sewer 


+ $yonpold se104 Appz 
jones - . seqwog |] 


se\Wwog 


__sjonpolg e104 oyjoed UeIpEUeD 


- SJONPOId chee Oyjoeg Ue|peued 
ea epecseg esjog 


SWVN LNVId 


“SINVId aaivinozu 4O isn ‘}31NG3HOS | 


- enssiy 
/ssedeg ous |. 
a /pseog . 
 /Buyyujeg 


Buye6nu05 


jequeyoow | 
—eyyding |. 


— ~ (yes) . 
erydins 
MODALVO 


- SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS. =~ —_—_28 


LIMITS — 


Nonmonca 
Frequency 


St Notes: ae . “ 
r) = Daily Monitoring i En : aut . tet Group ara) Number — 
.Q a Cuartety Monitonnig Requirement ms Nya Non=hees 


8 aie eee eae A Naess copa ra: Citak suhcsenn Poets 


"SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


| ANALYTICAL TEST GROUP | | Moni 


Daly Monnoarg {Prenat HS, No,: = Tox onee (70) Number 
= Quarterly Monitonng Requirement. . = Pk eee 1s = Non— oeSle Sa se 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


. LIMITS” 


= Cuarerly Montoning Requirement NM = Non uraple 


31; 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS | 


aie Total Phosphorus 
Eee Total Suspencee Solids (TSS) 


D = Daily Monitoring Requirement ape : xpos (ATG) Number 
Ca ee 


* ee eh ee = 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS - 


Adsorbable Organic Halide — Cay Coe ee 
— December 3, 1995 


= December 31, 1999 


oe 
ara. 


Li LIMITS 


; eee Test ges arm Number 


Measurable 


‘33 


34 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS | 


LIMITS - 


D = Daily Monitoring uirement oe mes Z Ne. regent j Test Group Ta) Nicer 
W @ Weekly Moniton: uirement re ; E 
Q = Quarterly Monitonng Requirement Nee Non SQoeraaec ed 
* Based on m more stingentexetng Ministry Contol Order or Cerca of Approval Requirements 


_- SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


LIMITS — 


Adsorbable Organic Halide — Day One 


= December 31, 1995 


— December 31, 1999 


D = Daly Montorng pcuremertt , eu ss eee ores oI oe | 
Q = Guanety Monttonhg Requrement . RCL Nae “Measurable én a ink 
* Based on more 


siignt exiting Minety Control Order or Certate ct Approval Requirement 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS — 


2,3,7,8-T4CDD 
2,3,7.8—-T4CDF. 


Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5 day) 


Adsorbable Organic Halide — Day One 


ee 


= December 31, 1995 


— December 31, 1999 


{ 
i. 
| 
| 
i 
| 
2 
i 
q 


D Gas Neraotng Rae ie | | Sr Se AT Na | 
Gs praberaal ames so feet caawible ee 


- SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS. 


375 


ts |. Monthly | > 
onitoring | Dai Ave 
FeaUenCy Picesny : foasng 


‘(siege | haar 


* Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5 day) 
_ Adsorbable Organic Halide - Day One 


"+ = December 31, 1995 
"= December 31, 1999 - 


No. = ical Test Group (ATG) Number - 


| Stoeger eee glen giao pha) | 
av W = Weaky Morigeg Beqarment : en yy : 2 Nee None easurable 


_ SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS i 


| 6 | retarProsphons. 


poe Total Suspended Solids ass) 


D = Daily Monitoring rement | sponse Test Group aT) Number 
ras = pisos, Monitonng Requirement : a; 3 per per day 


couere 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


2.3,78-T4CDD 
2.3,78-T4CDF 
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5 day) sin 


" Adsorbable Organic Halide - Day One. 


= December 31, 1995 


__= December 31, 1999 


D = Daily Monitoring irom } ne ) No, = Anslyical Test Group (ATG) Number 
W = Weskiy tigranng Recurement eee eeu: f Non Weasuraole 


“SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS | 


oO 


= Daily Rionionne ing Pecirmert uiremem  - eae Test soe ara) Number . 
W = Weekly M : : 
Q = Quarterly ee Flequrement dats! iY Ba me 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS) 


LIMITS 


| _ Monthly - 
_ Daily —-—*| Average 
Loading | Loading — 


2,3,7,8—T4CDF 


Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5 day) 


Adsorbable Organic Halide — Day One 


"-— December 31, 1995 
= December 31,1999 
D = Daily Monitor : a Be ; a te so) eleorans perasy Number 
a 3 : 3 k . ie ; 
* Based on more stringent existing Ministry Control Order or Certificate of Approval Requirements tierra 


41 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS — 


wie Bay Honma ee Aen eri ; Test Group (ATG) ‘Number : 
Q = Quarterty Monitonng Requirement. : Sole, th ee eure 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS ye 43° 


Monitoring} Daily.” 
Frequency 


Loading 


2,3,7,8-T4CDD 
2,3,7,8-T4CDF 
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5 day) 


Adsorbable Organic Halide — Day One. 


— December 31, 1995 


— December 31, 1999. 


Quarterty Bg Roqurement | 


~ D = Daily Monitoring Requirement = ais: 205 Bias No, = Analytic al Test Group (ATG) Number 


stingert exiting Micetry Cortrl Order or Carticets of Approval Requirements 


-SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT-LIMITS. . 


oe Lan uirement ars } No. ayo eloorars Group (ATG) Number 
a: = Quarterly Monitonng Requirement ats oe Nm Non x8 tind anton ae 


* Based on more etingentexting Minty Conte! Order or Cerca of Approval Requirements 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENTUMITS == 5 


u MITS 


D sie ee ) aeons ie: poe No. = T est G , ATG) etoae 

= ng ment . . : . = roup a 
W = Weekly Monitonng Requirement. ~ ae ko/day. = per day : 

Q= tonng Ne’ Non~ urable 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


= December 31, 1995 


= _ December 31, 1999 


Q= Non— finigclinelon 


b= bay Eitan | : . 2 Proes set et ra 70) no 


. . epee nlorepritpe ep a poe 


_ SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


2.3,7,8-T4CDF 
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (5 day) 
per 


Non— urabie — 


ibce inpettie areaae No. = Analytical Test Group (ATG) Number 


47. 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS _ 


| og | Total Phosphous = ue 
eid Total Suspended Solids Ua) 


Biochemical Oxygen Demand. (5 day) 
‘Adsorbable Organic Halide. — Day One 


— December 31, 1995 


= December 31, 1999 : 


Oe Daly Montoni cone | | ees eprams perce Number 


ion etn ete ete 


“SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENTLIMITS sg 


‘LIMITS 


a 0.0611 0.0611 


ae ot December 31, 1995 


vs December 31, 1999 : 


: T Number 
shark Be a. ome a) 
Quarterly Monitonng Requirement p Non— laaricer! 


50 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


23,78-T4CDD- 
23, 7B-T4CDF 


Biochemical Onan Demand (5 day) 


= Quarterly Monitonng Requirement 


D = Daly Mortorng A ee | : % : Test G “ane 
W's Weekly Monitoning Requirement Ye ome Sig eae cafeiealness 3 


. Hepmoarrmabme Sef e 5S 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS - 


31 


Monmoring Regaremert | z eis sting wore a 
ol ee mee 


52 


SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


LIMITS” 


_ SCHEDULE 2: PROCESS EFFLUENTLIMITS =———s53 


ie | | Monthly eae 

‘|| Monitoring | Daily | Average 
Frequency| Loading | Loading |— 
roe | oy) 


Be eeaeetearemuemet Bn Aneto cry ATO) Naber 
we artes 9 pene) Kan Ne’ Non= feck eh atey ae 


fags 
= 


+84 


SCHEDULE. 2: PROCESS EFFLUENT LIMITS 


Peers uirement eet ie dun No, = AneiyScal Test Group (ATG) Number 
Q= Quanetly Monitoring Requirement ne Nie’ Non x8 dood elie nee : 


Based on more stringent exeting Minty Control Order or Cerificate of Approval Requirements 


SCHEDULE 2A 
Unit of Production Loading Limits for the 
Sulphate bse Gatouoly (kg/tonne) 


money, Avess 


- fazercor 
~_Non-Acuiely Lethal 


‘SCHEDULE 2A | 
Unit of Production Loading Limits for the 
Sulphite-Mechanical Category (kg/tonne) 


a ete Monthly Average 
Parameter __ Daily Limit _Daily Limit 
{ Sa ED 


0.0863 
0.00188 
0.000215 
0.000413 
37, Norneasorablell 
Non-measurable 


Non-Acutely | Lethal 


NI 
oF 
+ 
Q 
Oo 
nN 


TS TS o | 4 maa he 
eleziz/e18lSys | 
ol l*lslalglsle 
oe ae > 3 = | 
Se ele 1 

i 


= 
[*) 


osels 


ty 
x, 


| | Daily Limit Daily Limit 
Noe TL ee 5 day pau O.0 cee) na SOO NEAT 5.00 | 
frat Suspended seize [tsa [787 
FAOX -Day One | 2422.60" 

| _ + December 31, 1995 1.50 

| ° Decembes 31, 1999 7 0.800 _ 
oe : 
Peet ans eo , 


[23.7.8-T600 


55 


[Prerot SSCS 0020 0.000280 
25,7 S100 ki - 


ee ‘SCHEDULE 2A | 
Unit of Production Loading Limits for the 
-Corrugating Category (kg/tonne). 


_ Monthly Average 
| — Daily Limit 


SCHEDULEQA = 
‘Unit of Production Loading Limits for the ? 
Deinking/Board/Fine Papers/Tissue Category (kg/tonne) 


ae bis . ~ | Monthly Average 
jParameter . _ Daily Limit _. Daity Limit 


Po ay ace ee Err es an mer ey ee | 
BOD, 5 day (Noranda Forest Inc. only) 10.0 §.00 — 

Total Suspended Solids sid’ 
Tol Prosphonus——~—S~SC~dtC*‘éi dO 
EO 
Frowene | 0.000218 | 0.000218 _| 


- Non-Acutely Lethal .. 


a 


_ ONCE-THROUGH COOLING WATER, WEEKLY MONITORING 


ANALYTICAL TEST GROUP 


“Total Suspended Solids — 


SCHEDULE 3: ASSESSMENT MONITORING REQUIREMENTS 


ES Tat 


ECs x 
ad As 
ae Rats . 


wey 
Bion 


SCHEDULE 4: REFERENCE PRODUCTION RATES | 


PLANT NAME _ 

Abitibi—Price Inc., Fort William Division 
Abitibi—Price Inc., Iroquois Falls Division 
Abitibi—Price Inc., Provincial Papers Division 
Beaver Wood Fibre Company Ltd. 

Boise Cascade Canada Ltd. (Fort Frances) 
Boise Cascade Canada Ltd. (Kenora) 
Canadian Pacific Forest Products (Dryden) 


Canadian Pacific Forest Products (Thunder Bay) i 


Domtar Inc., Containerboard Division (Red Rock) 
Domtar Inc., Containerboard Division (Trenton) — 
Domtar Inc., Fine Papers Division (Cormwall) 


- REFERENCE PRODUCTION RATE 


| Bleached Kraft | Finished. Product 
eo 2s "428 


‘Domtar Inc., Fine Papers Division (St. Catharines). | 


EB: Eddy Forest Products Ltd. (Espanola) 

E.B. Eddy Forest Products Ltd. (Ottawa) 

James River—Marathon Ltd.- 

Kimberly—Clark Canada Inc. (Huntsville) | 

Kimberly—Clark Canada Inc. (St. Catharines) 

Kimberly-Clark Canada Inc. (Terrace ecey) 

MacMillan—Bloedel Ltd. 

Malette Kraft Pulp and Power Company 

+ Noranda Forest Inc., Recycled Papers 
“Quebec & Ontario Paper Company Ltd. 

St. Marys Paper inc. . 

Sonoco Limited 

Spruce Falls Power and Paper Company Ltd. 

- Strathcona Paper Compa 


a2 


iis 
Sip ss 
F 


. 
‘DraftPé&P.Jan,1993 | e 
_. SCHEDULE 5_ 
UIRE NTS fo AOX Elimination Plans 
Pn | 
This schedule Seine to all dirace) Ratecnercerk: nten: are required 
under Section a5 of this regulation to submit | an AEP. 


Written AEP’s which: are submitted: under this. regulation will be 
- evaluated by the Ministry in the context of environmental, 
pecan ol ods Cal and. economic factors. 


Commencing in 1999, each direct discharger shall prepare and. submit a 
eared ehhh ae AEP bisipatee cuneoanse zi 


Part 1 
». AEP Contents ae 


In order to comply. with the AEP requirement of section 26 of this 
: regulation, each direct discharger shall submit information oe ee 


- a). Describes the AOX elimination policy for the discharger’ s plant, — 
- along with a plan for communicating this policy to relevant : 
employee and management personnel. This description should 
_ include: specific short-term and long-term goals for AOXx 
- elimination; a statement of top-level management commitment to the | 
- elimination policy; methods used to accomplish top-level 
management support (i.e., reward and recognition program); and 
; ‘designation of a AEP oon responsible. for eaten! the: AEP. 


b) Identities the annual amounts of enor ine and chlorine compounds 
' used for bleaching. at the adh ha s plant tere the TEA GE de 
_calendar year: ; 


=<C) ‘Describes (Gaatratively) the sources of mevaration of AOX from the. 

bleaching operations and contains a simple flow diagram or block 

diagram of the unit(s), processes or operations generating the AOxX 
to facilitate evaluation of the chlorine and chlorine elimination 
efforts. The diagram must include, as a niet major pec ess 
steps, equipment and AOX waste Had Sido 


DrartRer Jan Toe eaten as es OU a ae Mie ic {a 
d) Provides etal ted deseripcions of AEP options ‘that aneie to the 


discharger’s. plant including, but ithe pee LY, limited to, 
opens which consider: | 


i eupscicarion of other chemical agents for the bleaching of wood a 
fibre or recycled fibre; Be, 


ii) reformulation of products which will eliminate the need for the 
use of chlorine or chlorine compounds; : 


e) provides an evaluation of the technical feasibility of 
para implementing the AEP Gprsons meee in item d); — 


f) ‘Provides a proposed ‘schedule for implementing the preferred 
option(s) from those listed in’ iten“d). 3 . 


-g) Provides an estimate of the anticipated. reductions in AOX that 
will Results from the various stages of a alos aoe onde 


Part 2: 
| Annual Report and ‘Update of the e AEP | 
In preparing an annual report/update, each direct discharger anal 


a) Include the amount of AOX generated by the discharger’s plant 
(prior to biological treatment) for: the year and the method. PY 
which the amount of AOX chee hh was determined. 


b) -Include any Peavalusticns of the technical feasibility: of the oe 
preferred option(s) submitted in the AEP and evaluations: of the — 
technical feasibility and cost of any new options that were 
considered since the last update of the REF; “ 


c) Include any changes in the discharger’ s priorities, resource 
requis een cute te Poca and schedules: Cee ae the 


The reports Set be iguimitted no later than eee day of 
December of. the year in. which they are que ane must = PRY ae continuity 
with previous ae ater tke 


mn 


