Pubtioatians 


— 
==” «8 Correctional Service _ Service correctionnel 
= Canada 
CAL 


a3 SG 31 
er feo t 2 

=> 

mS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY: REVISION 2003 


Maintenance of a just, 
peaceful and safe society 


http://www.csc-scc.gc.ca/text/public_e.shtml 


Canad 


© Minister of Public Works and Government Services Canada — 2003 
Catalogue No.: JS82-80/2003 
ISBN: 0-662-67922-9 


é — 
Vrron®® 


EcoLogo” Paper / Papier Eco-Logo” 


Foreword 


On December 12, 2003, the Prime Minister announced changes to the Canadian Ministry which 


included the creation of a new Ministry of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness responsible for, 
within a single portfolio: 


* the former Solicitor General Canada portfolio’, 

* the Office of Critical Infrastructure Protection and Emergency Preparedness, 
* the National Crime Prevention Centre, and 

* the new Canada Border Services Agency. 


At the time of the completion of the third Sustainable Development Strategy by the former Department 
of Solicitor General Canada, the activities and processes required to create and recognize the new 
Department of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness were only just underway. 


As such, the new Department of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness will table its first 
Sustainable Development Strategy in 2006. In the interim, the Sustainable Development Strategy of the 
former Department of Solicitor General Canada is being tabled. Progress towards the goals and targets 
will be assessed and reported via the new Department’s annual Performance Report and Report on 
Plans and Priorities. 


* — The former Department of the Solicitor General, Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Canadian Security 
Intelligence Service, Correctional Service of Canada, National Parole Board, Canada Firearms Centre, RCMP External 


Review Committee, Commission for Public Complaints Against the RCMP and Office of the Correctional Investigator. 


Aes 


Commissioner's Message 


Sustainable Development is a government priority and a priority for society. Sustainable Development 
has been enshrined in law and is taking on an increasingly prominent position in policy and operations 
across the Federal Government. 


Sustainable Development is an approach to organizing our society so it can meet the needs of our 
citizens, now and in the future. It does not just mean implementation of an environmental protection 
program. It means considering the biophysical and socio-economic implications of everything we do. 


The tabling in Parliament of the Correctional Service of Canada's first Sustainable Development 
Strategy in 1997 marked the beginning of our participation in a formal planning and reporting process 
to implement sustainable development throughout the federal government. Recognizing the 
uniqueness of our operations, we, as an agency within the Ministry of the Solicitor General, voluntarily 
developed and implemented two Sustainable Development Strategies over the past six years. Although 
we continue to submit our own strategy separate from that of the Department or other agencies within 
the Ministry, we have begun the process of integrating our approach with those of the Secretariat of the 
Solicitor General, the RCMP and other federal government departments. 


I am pleased to say that we have confirmed our priorities, and we are on track toward achieving 
outcomes that will be important to Canadians. As we continue to refine and implement our plans, I 
count on our staff to work with our partners and other stakeholders to help bring about improvements 
in our quality of life and the sustainability of our society, and to sensitize offenders in their role in 
environmental issues. 


Lucie McClung, 
Commissioner 


Executive Summary 


Correctional Service Canada (CSC), along with 27 other federal departments and agencies, published its 
first Sustainable Development Strategy (SDS) in 1997, with a revision in 2000. This is CSC’s second SDS 
revision and, effectively, the Agency’s third presentation. In it, we broaden our understanding of 
sustainable development (SD) as a concept, assess our progress to date and outline what we intend to 
achieve in the coming years. In the next three years, we will continue our efforts toward SD, at which 
point we will update the strategy again. 


We understand SD to mean reaching a state where people’s basic needs are met and where they have the 
safety and sense of belonging that facilitate self-fulfillment and the exercise of compassion. This will 
require us to conduct our activities in a way that will enable the environment to provide for our needs 
without degrading it or depleting Canada or the world's resources. 


So far we have had three priorities: protection of our atmosphere, our water and our resources, both 
physical and human. We have begun to collect background data on our environmental impacts and have 
found the process challenging. We have made some progress on limiting pollution and resource 
consumption, albeit with various levels of performance from site to site. The task of achieving the SDS 
2000 targets has had to compete with new external pressures (Treasury Board policies and priorities on 
contaminated sites, petroleum storage tank compliance and new regulatory reporting requirements on 
various environmental issues) thus preventing us from fully meeting some targets. However, we did 
gain considerable experience and knowledge in the process. 


In this SDS, Revision 2003, we expanded our efforts to involve more stakeholders in our planning. We 
encouraged participation from across CSC, held consultations with partners in the portfolio of the 
Solicitor General (the Department itself and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police) and participated in 
consultations with other departments (such as Justice Canada, National Defence and Citizenship and 
Immigration Canada) to better coordinate our collective efforts as co-participants in Canada’s social 
safety agenda. In future SDSs we will be able to integrate our planning more closely with such 
organizations. 


The focus of CSC’s mandate is to contribute to a just, peaceful and safe society by care and custody of 
inmates, as well as the rehabilitation and reintegration of offenders into the community. To carry out its 
mandate, CSC operates penitentiaries and parole offices. 


The sustainable development issues facing CSC are essentially unchanged from 2000. No major new 
environmental problems have appeared on a global or national scale. There have been no significant 
changes in the scale and nature of CSC operations. 


For Revision 2000, CSC has three environmental goals: protection of the atmosphere, protection of the 
hydrosphere and maintenance of natural resources. Under these goals are a total of nine targets (three 
under each goal) concerning: carbon dioxide emissions, nitrogen oxide emissions, emissions of volatile 
organic compounds, leachate and runoff from contaminated sites, effluent from farm operations, 


sewage discharges and leaks, water reduction, solid waste reduction, and environmental awareness 
among inmates. 


We have set out action plans that we hope will allow us to reach our goals. These action plans involve 
refining our baselines, finding alternatives and implementing changes (such as equipment 
replacement, retrofitting, remediation, upgrading, installation and process revision). 


For each target, measuring our performance will be straightforward, for we have carefully chosen 
targets that are measurable. We will continue to bring into operation data management systems that will 


allow us to store, retrieve and manipulate our data, and then make decisions about how to improve our 
performance. 


iii 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2023 with funding from 
University of Toronto 


https://archive.org/details/31/61116488545 


Table of Contents 


POMIMISSIOner'S Messager s, jh coe to.) me Oe Ne ere nan de ea ee en i 
Executive Sanimany cain ying) Seve Reet frowned hel yea in Paik ae eee aera, il 
LALTOURCEION 2 Ae PVE OI, Ua Bn eee ee Ae eee 1 
Understanding Sustainable Development within CSC ...........ccccccceeccceuecceeues y) 
Global Context Th oO hk SE ee En eae er Ee eee 2 
The Federal Governitaent Settings 727 6 ieee. ee) oe ee ee ee ere erie ere er 4 
Rorpectional: Service: Prone foc. ih Satan. acl ence ee ren eit ae 5 
ISSUGISCER es 8 ee eI ee ee ee eee 7 
GOnSUMACIONS., oh. Dawacenanenc reagent dee cane cea eae nese nec ee 8 
EVAat ng NevisiOMm COO" 2.0 yO. NE US Uh ene eRe errr ee ee ee ee eee 9 
OUT PIEVIOUS SLPALER Va ecm tenis te ce eee ween cae mene aetna aoe ate eee ae tee 9 
PTO RTESSASSESSITICME sr tly ce treite s aicee Mee eile Sig eee eter Neer eemet eye ciate ae meee ert aT 9 
OUP CONT HEMENES Ny. ton5 OC ee ie ne eee CAC’ Cee: 14 
OUP VISION fi oor choles Ce ee DNS koe Ot TE TLe OREO STR ee net em mee 14 
Tite FOLIOS slo a) Bava ee es Sse Oe ee ne ec eee eee 14 
INSSUINPUONIS “eee ee ss cee oa tee tone a clalnineiate hingaie “Sy pian ygtnala aiela elie ia a nea ena mee 14 
Goals: Objectives and Targets::7.. 52. cn... se Sanimnen a ited cee eee eee 14 
MN CEROTL PLAINS se oecee aca Re ws Wisc es tae tia epee oe ee oe 17 
Reporting om PertOrmance:. ¢socncre maa s coh genet tele eee melee ete eer rece 21 
Appendix Vx.GSC ACCIVITIOS. 4. 2u:gamedus ee seer ge cate ae ney mnie metre tear earner 21 


TECHTICAL NOEO® coe. lta essen leks ccd gL See eee 23 


Ves TR: “s 
4 7 > 


b= 


A > 


} > =a 


D es 


See may a 
7 yy 


‘ ew 7 on 
} CST tie s “hye a 
., 34 
Hi] » a 
a a Ld ee : 
,, it e 
an i = = 
‘ . 7 - 
i ¢ ay > WY ree veya. 
Pe: ee a) 
WAIT YY a ym) : 
tonen tire’ PgAN” 
7 = 7 am Pedk 
, mene set 
2 en het 
. Cg ray Livncovtr eee amny, 
oh : ge enalh staji) 7 
r/ right piu Sait” > 
i i Meals Bh. 0s weeeeg hy 
— t a 
: . a ad “are ’ 
0.0 a : as PL 
i 
5 i 7 
« 
f 
| 
i =~ 
= 


Introduction 


In this section, we review the process that has led to the publication of the strategy and that will take us 
forward into the coming years. 


In 1997, Correctional Service Canada (CSC) began its formal course toward sustainable development 
(SD) by building on environmental management programs it had put in place in the early 1990s. The 
new course was begun under the Government of Canada’s legal framework for SD planning, which was 
enshrined in the Auditor General Act as amended in 1995. Specified federal departments and agencies 
were required by law to publish Sustainable Development Strategies (SDSs) that showed what they 
intended to achieve and how they would fulfill their commitments. In 1995, the Government of Canada 
published instructions on how to prepare an SDS in A Guide to Green Government. In line with the 
Treasury Board policy on Results for Canadians, achievements are to be monitored and reported to 
Parliament.' The Office of the Commissioner of the Environment and Sustainable Development (CESD) 
was put in place to audit the performance of each department and agency. 


SDS 1997 dealt with both management activities and specific end-points. We later found we had 
difficulty dealing with all the general commitments we had made and we had limited capability to 
measure progress. 


The first revision of CSC’s SDS was completed in 2000. In Revision 2000 we reduced the number of 
targets we set and refocused our attention on key end-points that we believed were important to achieve, 
each with an associated action plan. As discussed later in this document, we found we still had difficulty 
measuring progress and implementing changes that would bring about measurable results. 


This document, Revision 2003, presents our second comprehensive assessment of progress and a 
refocusing of our efforts. In it we show what has worked well, where improvements are appropriate and 
how we intend to do things differently to bring about the results we know will make important 
contributions to sustainable development. 


poeesenneceveeseeredsaveevereeveePePbODPED>EPOEDUDPLIDIODEDLPDDDDSOSIIDIDLLIDELILESIDOSPPEDD>DOSIDPLISISZILISIOIIOIIOPELIIFLLDE 
PPPPTPPTTT TTT TT 
PPPr rr rT tert 


1. Treasury Board of Canada. 2000. Results for Canadians 2000, Ottawa. 


Understanding Sustainable 
Development within CSC 


In this section, we explain the history of sustainable development and what is required of CSC to respond to 


evolving requirements to plan for a sustainable society. 


GLOBAL CONTEXT 

In Canada, as early as 1867, Prime Minister John A. Macdonald deplored the loss of large trees in the 
forests of eastern Canada, and in 1915, the Canadian Conservation Commission mentioned that, “each 
generation is entitled to the interest on the natural capital, but the principal should be handed on 
unimpaired.” 


On the world stage, in 1968, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization 
(UNESCO) held an International Conference for Rational Use and Conservation of the Biosphere that is 
often cited as a pioneering effort that sparked worldwide debate on SD, or “ecodevelopment” as it was 
sometimes known. In 1972, the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (UNCHE) in 
Stockholm discussed quality of life and intergenerational equity, and initiated the evolution of 
“sustainable society” as something that we might all aspire to create, for the alternative appeared to bea 
world in which limits to growth would lead to social collapse. 


After the UNCHE conference, the United Nations asked Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland to address how the 
world community could develop a shared understanding of SD, and to develop a long-term strategy for 
its achievement from year 2000 onward. In 1987, the Brundtland Commission published its report, Our 
Common Future, stating: “sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present 
without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” Other definitions 
given in Our Common Future included: 


* Development - The satisfaction of human needs and aspirations is the major objective of 
development (essential needs such as food, clothing, shelter, jobs and beyond, people have legitimate 
aspirations for an improved quality of life) (p. 43). 

- Sustainable development - A process of change in which the exploitation of resources, the direction 
of investments, the orientation of technology development, and institutional change are all in 
harmony and enhance both current and future potential to meet human needs and aspirations (p. 46). 

> Sustainability - Requires views of human needs and well-being that incorporate such non- 
economic variables as education and health enjoyed for their own sake, clean air and water and the 
protection of natural beauty (p. 53). 


The 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) in Rio de Janeiro 
(also known as the Earth Summit) accepted SD as a common goal of human development on behalf of 
more than 160 countries attending the event. Ten years later, the World Summit on Sustainable 
Development in Johannesburg resulted in a declaration of SD, a focused plan for implementation and 


2. Roseland, Mark. 1992. Toward Sustainable Communities: A resource book for municipal and local governments. 
National Roundtable on the Environment and Economy. 


solutions to realize Agenda 21.' Agenda 21, originally set out in the 1992 Earth Summit, focused on 


development within the context of conservation rather than preservation of our environments and 
natural resources. 


We have now had almost a century of discussion, yet there is no consensus on what is supposed to be 
sustained in “sustainable development” and, what exactly is “development” in this context. However, we 
can now see that, as the human population approaches 6.5 billion, we need to exercise self-control over 
our levels of material and energy consumption so that there is enough for all of us, as well as for those 
who will come after us — this is the equivalent of living off the interest from our natural resources 
without depleting our natural capital. One major assumption underlies our definition: satisfaction of 
basic needs provides the stability for fulfilling higher needs (Figure 1). Meeting basic needs enables us 
to proceed toward a society in which people have the safety and sense of belonging that facilitates self- 
fulfillment and the exercise of compassion. 


FIGURE 1 
Human Needs Hierarchy 


COMPASSION 


SELF-FULFILLMENT NEEDS 
(psychological stimulation) 


SAFETY NEEDS 


(security, peace) 


BASIC PHYSIOLOGICAL NEEDS 
(food, water, shelter) 


PPPPPPPPPTTTITTTITITITIT Tie) 
Sececadaccesvdecdacwuadshscesesacepdecnedseraasseceenede see 
cece ererececcerccncsereesseseeseres 


3. Agenda 21. From the WWW, September 2003. 
http://www. un.org/esa/sustdev/documents/agenda2/english/agenda2 toc.htm 

4, Adapted from Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. From the WWW, September 2003 
http://www.sad17.k12.me. us/teachers/bburns/com/documents/human_nature/maslow.html 


NADA e SUSTAINAB 


THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SETTING 
There is currently no single set of SD priorities that all federal departments share. The role that 


individual departments are expected to play and how their strategies should contribute to a 
government-wide SD agenda are open to debate. The federal Interdepartmental Network on 
Sustainable Development Strategies (INSDS) is working towards an overall vision of what our country 
would look like in 20 years from the perspective of SD. In advance of that vision, CSC has continued to 
set its priorities in relation to our mandate and operations. At CSC, we provide care and custody of 
federal prisoners, and focus on their rehabilitation and reintegration into the community as law-abiding 
citizens, through the provision of programs in penitentiaries and in the community. CSC’s involvement 
in the criminal justice process is limited to adult offenders with sentences of two years or more. CSC 
operates various facilities and runs a variety of programs. Our physical plant operations entail 
environmental impacts and our rehabilitation programs offer opportunities for offenders to contribute 
to sustainable development, particularly after their release. 


We attempted to broaden our planning horizon in this SDS by looking at our role in relation to the roles 
of other departments. The cost of crime in Canada is estimated to be $46 billion per year if one takes into 
account longer term costs such as lost productivity.’ This is not to mention the unquantifiable costs of 
pain and suffering of victims and others and the fact that people feel unsafe. The ripple effects of crime 
extend to all sectors of society, including health, social services, education, labour and employment.’ To 
combat crime, the Government of Canada has many departments and agencies that contribute to law and 
order, including CSC, the Solicitor General of Canada, RCMP, Justice Canada, National Defence and 
Citizenship and Immigration Canada. These other departments and agencies are our partners. 


The foundations of the Government of Canada’s National Crime Prevention Strategy (NCPS) have been 
built on a social development approach. Simply stated, policy and programs to reduce crime and 
victimization aim to address the root causes of criminal behaviour. Departments with a safety and 
security mandate are sharing the $273 million allocated over four years (2001-2005) under the NCPS to 
assist in the delivery of programs to address risk factors in people's lives such as physical and 
psychological violence, poor parenting, and drug and alcohol abuse. 


The Solicitor General’s portfolio is charged with the responsibility of planning, coordinating and 
implementing the Government of Canada's national security policies and programs. The Department 
of the Solicitor General itself provides policy advice and support to the Solicitor General on all aspects 
of the national public safety agenda. The other portfolio members contribute to the overall National 
Strategy objectives and priorities. From an SD perspective, the RCMP has a major role in helping 
communities identify their safety and security needs, and develop the appropriate financial, human and 
intellectual resources needed to address the causes of crime. Communities who understand their own 
needs and capabilities appear to understand more readily the connection between crime and social 
problems. They are also more likely to employ more effective processes to turn private concerns into 
public community-wide issues, a necessary part of creating cohesion in communities. 


As well, the Department of Justice works to ensure that Canada is a just and law-abiding society. It 
focuses on the accessibility, efficiency and fairness of the system of justice, one which respects the rights 
and freedoms of all under the law and the Constitution. 


5. National Strategy on Community Safety and Crime Prevention from the WWW, September, 2003. 
http.//canada justice.gc.ca/en/news/nr/2001/doc_27386.html 
6. Ibid. 


Correctional Service Profile 


This section contains a summary of what CSC does and how we do it. 


CSC is an integral part of the Canadian criminal justice system which includes legislation and 
regulations, law enforcement agencies, the courts and penal institutions. The Agency is part of the 
portfolio of the Solicitor General. The portfolio also includes the Department of the Solicitor General, 
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), the National Parole Board, the Canadian Security 
Intelligence Service, the Office of the Correctional Investigator, the Commission for Public Complaints 
Against the RCMP and the RCMP External Review Committee. 


CSC contributes to the protection of society by actively encouraging and assisting offenders sentenced 
to imprisonment for two years or more to become law-abiding citizens while exercising reasonable, safe, 
secure and humane control over them. The Agency contributes to the maintenance of a just, peaceful 
and safe society by care and custody of inmates, as well as rehabilitation and reintegration of offenders 
into the community. In pursuing its mission, CSC must deal with various constraints as it engages in 
operations that have both biophysical and socio-economic consequences (see Figure 2). 


The level of crime in Canada significantly influences the quality of life of the country’s citizens and the 
sustainability of its society. Were crime to become commonplace, the levels of stress suffered by 
Canadians might increase, and their health and longevity could suffer. CSC plays a major role in helping 
offenders to be rehabilitated and preparing them to lead productive, crime-free lives after release. In 
fact, the crime rate in Canada has decreased in relation to violent crime. 


CSC operates:’ 

+ 52 penitentiaries, 

* 17 community correctional centres, 

* 71 parole offices, 

- 175 halfway houses (operated under contract by nongovernmental organizations), and 
* one national and five regional headquarters. 


At 31 of the facilities, a Special Operating Agency of CSC called CORCAN operates farming, textiles, 
manufacturing, construction and service businesses that employ inmates and prepare them to take up 
positions in the regular workforce. In its operations, CSC still uses approximately 1,050 vehicles. 


7. CSC 2002-2003 Departmental Performance Report. 


2 88S OBS GS OS OS © OOS SSB SBS OOF ® FFF F OBS FFOEOSSSSSOGSGOISOGOASOOSAOGSSSHGSOG SSSA SOG DY 


CANADIAN SOCIETY 


FIGURE 2 
The Role of CSC in a Sustainable Canada 


UNINTENDED EFFECTS 
TO BE MINIMIZED 
Resource depletion 
Health effects of pollution 
Loss of arable land 

Loss of biodiversity 

Loss of cultural landscapes 
Acid rain 
Climate change 


INTENDED EFFECTS 

TO BE MAXIMIZED 

¢ Just, peaceful and 
safe society 

e Employable offenders 

e Few reoffenders 


CONSTRAINTS 

e Materials 

e Energy 
Funding 
Community settings 
Community values 
Convictions 


CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM 


CSC OPERATIONS 
e Care and custody of inmates 


¢ Rehabilitation and reintegration of 
offenders into the community 


CSC’s penitentiaries are like small self-contained communities. They typically house several hundred 
inmates, providing them with physical and non-physical basic necessities (e.g., food, clothing, shelter, 
health services, education, recreation and counselling). Available amenities include running water, 
solid waste removal, sewage systems, heating and ventilation. 


Canada spends approximately $1.5 billion annually on the federal correctional system. Sixty percent 
covers salaries, 30% operating and maintenance costs and 10%, capital costs (2003-2004 Estimates: 
Report on Plans and Priorities). The overall male institutional population in this period was constant 
from the previous year at around 12,300, and the population of male offenders under supervision in the 
community decreased by 2.5% to 7,874. The institutional population of female offenders was 356, while 
460 were under community supervision. The number of full-time equivalent personnel employed in 
fiscal year 2002-2003 was nearing 16,000. 


In the eight-year period from 1990 to 1998, CSC increased the total amount of space it occupies by 30%, 
from 895,623 m’ to 1,224,613 m’. This increase was not solely as a result of a greater number of inmates 
during this time period, but also the replacement of small cells with standard-size cells, more common 
rooms, and more programming space as old units were replaced. This trend toward increasing space 
has since dramatically slowed down, with an expected 3% increase in floor space from 1998 to 2008. In 
2002-2003, floor space stood at 1,258,938 m’. 


CSC’s overall operations can be divided into correctional facilities, CORCAN, offices and offender 
programs. The activities undertaken in these operations are quite varied (see Appendix | for a list). 


Issue Scan 


This section shows the sustainable development issues that are relevant to CSC’ operations. 


As was the case for Revision 2000, the issues facing CSC remain as outlined in A Guide to Green 
Government, including: 


* Sustaining our natural resources 

* Protecting the health of Canadians and ecosystems 
- Fulfilling our international obligations 

* Promoting equity 

* Improving the quality of life and well-being 


We have not identified any major new environmental issues that should significantly impact on our 
priorities since 2000. 


Similarly, since 2000, there have been no significant changes in the scale and nature of CSC operations. 
Thus, it is appropriate for CSC to address the same issues that were the focus of Revision 2000. The 
significant SD aspects arising from the issues scan can be grouped into three main topics: emissions to 
the atmosphere, emissions to the hydrosphere and resource use. 


At the beginning of the design process for this strategy, the timing appeared right to begin integrating 
traditional environmental programs with other programs in CSC. However, we were not able to consider 
fully the implications of offender programs from the point of view of sustainable development, so 
integration of those programs into the strategy is not completed. Thus, our traditional programs, such 
as security, health and reintegration, remain documented through the business planning process (for 
example, see CSC's Report on Plans and Priorities’). 


8. http:l/publiservice.tbs-sct.gc.calest-pre/20032004/CSC-SCC/CSC-SCC134_¢.asp 


A @ ; 


Consultations 


This section shows the participants in planning for this strategy and the partners with whom our efforts for 
sustainable development will need to be integrated in the future. 


Consultations for Revision 2003 began with CSC discussing what was feasible to accomplish in the next 
few years. We consulted internally with our strategic planning group to gain an understanding of how 
we may better integrate the SDS with the corporate business lines. Additional internal consultations 
were held with operational groups across the Agency to ensure that we settled on commitments that 
were both important and achievable. 


Over the spring and summer of 2003, we consulted externally with the RCMP and the Department of the 
Solicitor General, as well as National Defence, Public Works and Government Services Canada, and with 
other members of the Interdepartmental Network on Sustainable Development Strategies to gain an 
understanding of the extent to which we may collaborate in the future. 


As well, we shared our SDS preparation 
documents with our partners in the SGC portfolio 
CSC is an active participant in and Justice Canada because they are involved in 
many ways with the federal safety agenda. The 
focus of each organization is distinct, however 
Government Operations (SDGO), there are obvious commonalities between them. 


Sustainable Development in 


an interdepartmental initiative aes ; 
We found specific areas of mutual interest with 


designed to identify and coordi- the RCMP in particular: preventing crime, raising 

nate opportunities to advance the awareness in local communities, and Aboriginal 
safety and wellness. 

federal commitment to be a leader 

in sustainable development. Our Efforts to build horizontal bridges emphasize the 


difficulty in deciding who to involve and how to 
ensure that momentum is sustained. To enable us 
with other SDGO departments to to form effective partnerships that will grow over 
time, we intend to maintain this SD forum within 
the portfolio into the next SD cycle. 


department is working together 


adopt common measurement and 


reporting methods. 


Evaluating Revision 2000 


In this section, we examine some of the strengths and weaknesses of Revision 2000 and our progress 
toward the targets set out in that strategy, 


OUR PREVIOUS STRATEGY 


In reviewing Revision 2000 we were satisfied that our goals, objectives and targets aptly addressed CSC's 
major issues. Our environmental commitments were specific and aligned with our environmental 
policy. From the layout through the design process, we found little which we felt required change. 


One area for improvement that we found was in the breadth of what we place in the strategy. On the one 
hand, we face challenges implementing the strategy (as discussed below); on the other, we recognize 
that our offender programs may eventually need to be integrated into our SDS. 


PROGRESS ASSESSMENT 

Information concerning performance under Revision 2000 is shown in the following tables. The tasks 
associated with collecting baseline data and monitoring progress on new 2000 targets have been 
competing with new external pressures (Treasury Board policies and priorities on contaminated sites, 
petroleum storage tank compliance and new regulatory reporting requirements on various 
environmental issues) thus making it difficult to quantify the progress made on achieving our targets. 
Still, our experience has put us in a much better position to understand what it takes to influence 
attitudes and obtain results. Where we did have success, we credit the capacity of those involved in CSC 
to make change happen. 


While the overall Agency budget increased slightly from fiscal year 2002-2003, there were many 
competing priorities for available resources. Over time, we will need to work toward a situation where 
the SD resource requirements of field units are better understood and planned. 


TOPIC 1 

EMISSIONS TO THE ENVIRONMENT 

Goal 1: The integrity of the atmosphere is protected. | | 
| 2001-02 | 2002-03 2003-04 | 


OBJECTIVE 1.1: CSC's contribution to climate change is minimal 


TARGET 1.1.1 

Emissions of greenhouse gas CO, from all sources of combustion are 

reduced by 2% by March 2004. | 

Comments: An Energy Reporting System for facilities is producing accurate data © | GB >) 
across CSC. Baseline CO, emissions have been established. One major energy retrofit | | 
project will yield a significant CO, reduction this fiscal year. Although CSC emitted | | 
over 4% less CO,, this is due in part to weather conditions. | 


TARGET 1.1.2 

Emissions of the greenhouse gas CH, from landfills are reduced 38% by 
March 2004. 
Comments: The reduction of methane gas that is generated from landfill sites is ><) x) x) | 
generally outside the control of CSC. An attempt was made to model and calculate 

this baseline in 2001, based on the amount of material that was sent to landfill sites. | 
The model proved to be unworkable and the effort was put on hold. CSC will not | 
pursue this target. | | 


> OBJECTIVE 1.2: CSC’s contributions to smog are minimal | 


TARGET 1.2.1 | | | 
Emissions of volatile organic compounds [VOCs] from fuel leaks and | 
fugitive vapours are reduced 10% by March 2004. 

Comments: The emissions of volatile compounds and vapours from fuel tanks are 

dependent on the delivery systems that are being used by the petroleum industry. | | 

The systems to prevent emissions of VOCs are currently not readily available in most | © | es | © 
regions. As a result, progress on this target is generally outside the control of CSC, 

and the target was not achieved. CSC collected information needed to establish 

baselines for total emissions of VOCs. The target is being narrowed down to parts of 

the country where air pollution is a significant issue and where the industry has 

taken steps to reduce this source of pollution. Practices for avoiding generation of 

VOCs were included in the new CSC Environmental Guidelines as of 2003. 


© inprocress 9 DELAYED /ONHOLD = @ ACHIEVED 


10 


: 2001-02 | 2002-03 2003-04 


OBJECTIVE 1.3: CSC's contributions to acid rain are minimal 


TARGET 1.3.1 


Emissions of the acid gas NO, from all sources of combustion are reduced 
10%, over and above reductions resulting from burning less fuel, by March 


2004. | | 

Comments: In 2001, CSC collected information needed to establish baselines for total | a | x) v 
emissions of NO,. One major energy retrofit project will be completed in fiscal year | | | 
2003-2004, and will yield a significant NO, reduction. This will allow CSC to 

effectively meet the target that was established. 


TARGET 1.3.2 

Emissions of the acid gas SO, from all sources of combustion are reduced 

10%, over and above reductions from burning less fuel, by March 2004. 

Comments: CSC is heavily dependent on the petroleum industry for making low- © €3 x) 
sulfur fuels available for buildings and vehicles. In 2001, CSC collected information 

needed to establish baselines for total emissions of SO,. This target will not be 

pursued since these types of fuels are not yet readily available. 


TOPIC 2 
EFFLUENT DISCHARGES TO THE ENVIRONMENT 
Goal 2: The integrity of the hydrosphere is protected. 


OBJECTIVE 2.1: CSC’s contributions to water pollution are minimal 7 


TARGET 2.1.1 

Releases of leachate and runoff containing chemicals from contaminated 

sites are reduced 50% by March 2004. 

Comments: A baseline was established to reduce the amount of leachate and 

chemically laden run-off from contaminated sites. This baseline focused on the Q Q >) 
remediation and /or containment of the smaller contaminated sites. Since then, the 

government direction has been clarified to give priority to the high-risk sites. As a 

result, the target was not met and will be adjusted to reflect the new priorities. 

Leachate from landfill sites that are used for CSC waste are out of the control and 

jurisdiction of CSC, and hence do not form part of this baseline. 


© in procress 29 DELAYED/ONHOLD = @ ACHIEVED 


12 


| 2001-02 | 2002-03 | 2003-04 


TARGET 2.1.2 
Releases of effluent containing bacteria, fertilizers and/or pesticides from 
farm operations are reduced 10% by March 2004. 
Comments: In 2002, a report on effluent discharges to the hydrosphere provided a | | 

baseline for contaminant-laden effluent releases from farm operations. However, the Q x © 
baseline was found to be unreliable and must be refined. While we continue to strive 
for reductions, the reporting mechanism to document these reductions cannot be in 
place until the baseline information has been confirmed. | | 


TARGET 2.1.3 
Releases of effluent from lands treated with pesticides are reduced 50% = 
by March 2004. 
Comments: In 2002, a report on effluent discharges to the hydrosphere provided a | © | 
baseline for pesticide-laden effluent releases. CSC land in this category was found to | 
be minimal and this target will be eliminated. 


TARGET 2.1.4 
Releases of sewage from buildings to municipal systems where the sewage 

is not treated are reduced 20% by March 2004. | | 
Comments: In 2002, a report on effluent discharges to the hydrosphere provided a 
baseline for untreated sewage releases. Follow-up work on wastewater treatment © | © | © 
plant operations confirmed that no untreated effluent is being released to 

municipalities except those that are required to treat sewage. This target is no longer 

applicable for CSC and is being redefined. 


lORIES 
INFLUENCE OVER THE FUTURE OF INMATES 
Goal 3: The environmental awareness of people is high. 


OBJECTIVE 3.1: CSC's contribution to the education of inmates on environmental issues is significant 


TARGET 3.1.1 

25% of inmates released every year have participated in awareness | 
sessions on environmental issues provided during their academic | | 
upgrading (Grades 9 to 12). © S) | © 
Comments: Of 7,035 offenders who were released in fiscal year 2002-2003, 2,392 had | | | 
enrolled in ABE III or ABE IV level Educational Courses, which represents 34% of 

released offenders for the year. 


© in procress {J DELAYED / ON HOLD = @ ACHIEVED 


TOPIC 4 


RESOURCE USE 


Goal 4: The availability of natural resources is maintained. 


2001-02 | 2002-03 | 2003-04 


OBJECTIVE 4.1: CSC's contribution to depletion of individual physical resources is minimal 


TARGET 4.1.1 

Use of water is reduced 20% by March 2004 (from 600 L/day/occupant to 

480 L/day/occupant). 

Comments: After further review, the 2000 baseline of 600 L/day/occupant proved to | 

be inaccurate and lower than the actual consumption. Assessing progress against >) Q >) 
this target was inappropriate and unrealistic. Hence, the target consumption level 

could not be achieved. The baseline has been readjusted to 800 L/day/occupant. 


TARGET 4.1.2 

Disposal of solid waste in landfills is reduced 38% by March 2004 (from 

1.6 kg/day/occupant to 1.0 kg/day/occupant). 

Comments: CSC is using a baseline taken 10 years ago, as it is still applicable today 

(2.2 kg per occupant per day). Collecting accurate data in a consistent manner on the x) | &3 © 
amount of material that is being sent to landfill sites has been difficult. As a result, 

CSC has not been able to report effectively on the progress that has been achieved 

against this target. Policy now makes it mandatory for all institutions to collect, 

report and monitor solid-waste data. 


© IN PROGRESS x] DELAYED / ON HOLD 7) ACHIEVED 


13 


14 


Our Commitments 


This section presents our revised plans for the next few years. 


OUR VISION 

CSC’s vision of the future for Canada is that our population will continue to be at peace with itself and 
neighbours and in harmony with its environment. From this vision we can begin to see the way we need 
to structure our world and thus the ends we need to achieve. One of the ends that CSC has to keep 
pursuing is to ensure that its facilities and resources are managed in such way as to limit the impact on 
the environment. 


TIME HORIZONS 

The CESD has stated that federal SDSs need to take a long-term perspective in order to be strategic. 
Their audit showed that, because of the updating requirement outlined in the Auditor General Act, many 
strategies have had a limited three-year time horizon. CSC has always recognized that planning for the 
next generation of Canadians is the very essence of SD. We continue in that belief, but we feel that most 
of our targets need to be framed within a shorter time span in order to make each target more 
manageable. 


ASSUMPTIONS 

On its own, CSC cannot bring about an optimal level of sustainable development in Canada, let alone the 
world. For us to be effective, we need the cooperation of partners in crime prevention, law enforcement 
and local government. The effective reintegration of offenders into society is a basic mandate and a core 
business of CSC. As such, activities and progress are reported in a number of alternate avenues, and CSC 
will continue to report on these activities in this manner. 


GOALS, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS (GOTS) 

Although Revision 2000 was a major milestone, the work must continue to meet our SD commitments. 
To this end, in Revision 2003, we have revisited what is important and what we can reasonably 
accomplish in setting new GOTs. Our commitments are largely consistent with Revision 2000. ’ 


The CESD has repeatedly identified the need to link targets with longer-term objectives and goals. The 
work coming from the federal Interdepartmental Network on Sustainable Development Strategies 
(INSDS) suggests the use of a logic model or results chain to illustrate clearly these links. We have used 
a results chain to help us link our commitments in a logical fashion so that outcomes can be pursued in 
ways that will show long-term progress toward the goal of sustainability. The table on the following page 
highlights the new CSC commitments; it is followed by the actions plans on page 17. 


9. A sequential numbering system for the GOTs was used in Revision 2003. Items present in Revision 2000 and Revision 
2003, however, do not necessarily reflect the same attributed numbers for individual GOTs, due to a refocusing of the 
GOT for Revision 2003. Hence, the numbering in the Action Plan does not track outdated items. 


EGY: REVISION 200: 


GOAL 1: THE ATMOSPHERE IS PROTECTED 


OBJECTIVE 1.1: CSC’s contributions to climate change are minimal 
————————— 
TARGET AMOUNT BASELINE CLOSING 
SS Sass sssssnssssnsssssnsssoes 
1.1.1: Emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide (CO,) from 8% 2000 03-2010 
all sources of combustion are reduced 


1.1.2: Emissions of the greenhouse gas group nitrogen oxides 10% 2004 03-2007 
(NO,) are reduced in the Quebec-Windsor corridor and the Fraser 
Valley 


OBJECTIVE 1.2: CSC’s contributions to smog are minimal 


1.2.1: Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from 20% 2000 03-2007 
fugitive vapours are reduced in the Quebec-Windsor corridor and | 
the Fraser Valley 


GOAL 2: THE HYDROSPHERE IS PROTECTED 


OBJECTIVE 2.1: CSC’s contributions to water pollution are minimal 


TARGET AMOUNT BASELINE CLOSING 
——————————— OE 
2.1.1: Releases of leachate and runoff containing chemicals from 5%o 2000 03-2007 


contaminated sites are reduced 


2.1.2: Releases of effluent containing bacteria, fertilizers and/or 10% 2000 03-2007 
pesticides from farm operations are reduced 


2.1.3: Releases of off-specification effluent at sewage treatment 20% 2004 03-2007 
outfalls and sewage leaks are reduced 


CORRECTIONAL SERVICE CANADA * 


14 


GOAL 3: THE AVAILABILITY OF NATURAL RESOURCES IS MAINTAINED 


OBJECTIVE 3.1: CSC's contribution to depletion of individual physical resources is minimal 


TARGET AMOUNT BASELINE CLOSING 


3.1.1: Use of water is reduced 15% 2003 03-2010 
(from 800 L/day/occupant to 680 L/day/occupant) 


3.1.2: Disposal of solid waste in landfills is reduced 20% 2000 03-2007 
(from 1.6 kg/day/occupant to 1.3 kg/day/occupant) 


OBJECTIVE 3.2: Inmates’ contribution to depletion of individual physical resources is minimal 


3.2.1: Inmates released every year have participated in awareness 30% 2004 March 
sessions on environmental issues provided during their academic each 
upgrading (Grades 9 to 12) year 


In settling on this list of targets, CSC has dropped targets concerning methane, sulfur dioxide and 
effluents from certain lands treated with pesticides. These targets have been dropped because they 
were: 


- Redundant (methane is already assumed to be covered by the target for waste going to landfill) 

* Eventually achievable with no effort as a result of marketplace changes (sulfur dioxide will be 
reduced through changes in the refining industry) 

* No longer meaningful (the area of non-crop lands on which pesticides are being used is now known 
to be negligible) 


In the process, we also re-examined the remaining targets in light of progress to date and resourcing, 
increasing the extent to which some would be implemented and decreasing others. 


e SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY: REVISION 2003 


Action Plans 


The action plans for each of our targets are shown in the table below. 


Assignment of responsibility is also shown in the following table to ensure alignment of expectations for 
completing actions. The following abbreviations are used in the table: 


CEO - Chief Executive Officer 

DGF - Director General, Facilities 

DGSP - Director General, Strategic Planning 

DGTS - Director General, Technical Services 

DG, OPR - Director General, Offender Programs and Reintegration 

RATS - Regional Administrator, Technical Services (positions exist in each Region) 
OPI — Office of Primary Interest (responsible position) 


TARGET 1.1.1 
Emissions of CO, from all sources of combustion are reduced 


ACTIONS 
1.1.1.1 Confirm the established baseline (OPI: DGTS) 
1.1.1.2 Review available and emerging alternatives for each combustion source 
(OPI: DGTS, DGE, RATSs) 
1.1.1.3 Replace or renovate older facilities with energy-efficient accommodations (OPI: DGF) 
1.1.1.4 Demolish or dispose of built space no longer required for program needs (OPI: DGF) 
1.1.1.5 Retrofit selected areas with new lighting systems and mechanical controls 
(OPI: DGTS, DGE, RATSs) 
1.1.1.6 Tune-up or overhaul central heating plants (OPI: DGTS, DGE RATSs) 
1.1.1.7 Use CSC’s energy monitoring protocol to track energy use regularly (OPI: Wardens) 


TARGET 1.1.2 
Emissions of NO, are reduced in the Quebec-Windsor corridor and the Fraser Valley 


ACTIONS 

1.1.2.1 Confirm the established baseline and segregate Quebec- Windsor corridor and the 
Fraser Valley facilities (OPI: DGTS) 

1.1.2.2 Review available and emerging alternatives for avoiding generation of NO, or capturing it 
before it escapes to the atmosphere (OPI: DGTS) 

1.1.2.3 Replace or retrofit emission sources with low-NO, burners or neutralization systems 


(OPI: DGE, RATSs) 


17 


18 


TARGET 1.2.1 
Emissions of VOCs from fugitive vapours are reduced in the Quebec-Windsor corridor and 
the Fraser Valley 


ACTIONS 

1.2.1.1 Confirm the established baseline and segregate Quebec-Windsor corridor and the Fraser 
Valley facilities (OPI: DGTS) 

1.2.1.2 Review available and emerging alternatives for avoiding generation of VOCs or capturing 
them before they escape to the atmosphere (OPI: DGTS) 

1.2.1.3 Install vapour recovery systems (OPI: DGE, RATSs) 


TARGET 2.1.1 
Releases of leachate and runoff containing chemicals from contaminated sites are reduced 


ACTIONS 

2.1.1.1 Confirm the baseline of chemical-laden leachate and runoff from contaminated sites 
(OPI: DGTS) 

2.1.1.2. Confirm practical alternatives for avoiding generation of leachate and runoff or capture of 
these liquids before they can escape to the hydrosphere (OPI: DGTS) 

2.1.1.3 Periodically (at least annually) update the Agency’s Contaminated Sites Management Plan 
(OPI: DGTS) 

2.1.1.4 Remediate contaminated sites based on priorities of location, concentration of contaminants 
in leachate and runoff, and cost (the least expensive site per kg of contaminant release saved 
being preferred) (OPI: DGTS, RATSs, Wardens) 


TARGET 2.1.2 
Releases of effluent containing bacteria, fertilizers and/or pesticides from farm 
operations are reduced 


ACTIONS 

2.1.2.1 Confirm the baseline of contaminant-laden effluent release from farm operations 
(OPI: Corcan CEO) 

2.1.2.2 Confirm practical alternatives for avoiding generation of effluent or capture of the liquids 
before they can escape to the hydrosphere (OPI: DGTS) 

2.1.2.3 Install effluent capture and treatment systems (OPI: Corcan CEO) 


TARGET 2.1.3 
Releases of off-specification sewage treatment outfalls and leaks are reduced 


ACTIONS 


2.1.3.1 Confirm the baseline of contaminant-laden sewage releases and leaks (OPI: DGTS) 


2.1.3.2 Confirm practical alternatives for contaminant removal prior to release to the hydrosphere 
(OPI: DGTS) 


2.1.3.3. Upgrade sewage treatment facilities based on priorities of age and serviceability (OPI: DGF) 


TARGET 3.1.1 
Use of water is reduced 


ACTIONS 

3.1.1.1 Confirm the baseline of amounts of water being used (OPI: DGTS, Corcan CEO) 

3.1.1.2 Confirm practical alternatives for reducing water consumption, concentrating on processes 
where water may be wasted (OPI: DGTS, Corcan CEO) 

3.1.1.3 Revise processes and/or install water-saving devices based on priorities of volume 
(OPI: Wardens, Corcan CEO) 


TARGET 3.1.2 
Disposal of solid waste in landfills is reduced 


ACTIONS 

3.1.2.1 Confirm the baseline of amounts of solid waste being sent to landfills (OPI: DGTS) 

3.1.2.2 Confirm practical alternatives for reducing waste generation, concentrating, in order, on 
opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle (3Rs), particularly packaging (OPI: DGTS) 

3.1.2.3 Negotiate with suppliers to have them minimize and/or take back packaging and recyclables 
(OPI: Wardens) 

3.1.2.4 Expand recycling programs to cover all institutions (OPI: Wardens) 


TARGET 3.2.1 
Inmates released every year have participated in awareness sessions on environmental 


issues provided during their academic upgrading 


ACTIONS 
3.2.1.1 Semi-annually, obtain the list of inmates who have graduated from academic education 


(OPI: DG, OPR) 


19 


20 


Reporting on Performance 


This section describes how we plan to measure our progress. 


The Departmental Performance Reports (DPRs) for fiscal year 2002-2003 produced information about 
our SDS progress. The SD information presented in our DPRs has typically focused on gaps between 
CSC’s actual and planned activities, and not on outcomes achieved. This situation arose because data 
measurement systems are still being developed. 


To improve future reporting, in Revision 2003, we have set logically linked goals, objectives and targets 
that can be measured. While Revision 2003 is in effect, we will continue to improve our data capture 
systems to improve our ability to report on our progress, and we expect to have better data in future 
DPRs. This approach is consistent with Treasury Board’s emphasis on results in performance reporting 
and the need to satisfy the requirements for Parliamentarians and Canadians to determine if progress 
has been made toward SD. 


The performance measures (some would call these “indicators”) that we will use are as follows: 


* Weight of CO, emitted from sources of combustion 

- Weight of NO, emitted in the Quebec-Windsor corridor and the Fraser Valley 

- Weight of VOCs emitted from fuel leaks and fugitive vapours in the Quebec-Windsor corridor and 
the Fraser Valley 

- Volume of releases of leachate and runoff containing chemicals from contaminated sites 

- Volume of releases of effluent containing bacteria, fertilizers and/or pesticides from farm operations 

- Volume of releases of off-specification sewage treatment outfalls and leaks 

> Volume of water used 

> Weight of solid waste being sent to landfill 

- Number of inmates released every year who have participated in awareness sessions 


APPENDIX 1: CSC ACTIVITIES 


AREA: CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES 


Function: Hold and monitor inmates 
Activities: Ensure proper custody of inmates 
Provide food services 
Use motorized vehicles (cars, trucks) and surveillance equipment 
Store fuel 
Provide laundry service 
Maintain cells, activity areas, buildings and grounds 
Heat/cool and light cells, activity areas and perimeters 
Construct and renovate buildings (institutions, headquarters and CCCs) 
Maintain water treatment plants and sewage treatment systems 


Function: Transfer inmates 
Activities: Use motorized vehicles (cars, trucks, airplanes, trains, buses, taxis) 


Function: Train personnel 

Activities: Provide classroom instruction 
Provide field training and target practice 
Heat/cool and light training space 


CORCAN 


Function: Manufacturing, textiles, services 
Activities: | Design products and purchase materials 
Process materials 
Package and store finished products 
Distribute finished products 
Support use and maintenance of products 
Dispose of products 


Function: Construction 

Activities: Design building and infrastructure projects and purchase materials 
Construct and renovate buildings and infrastructure 
Support use and maintenance of buildings and infrastructure 
Dispose of buildings and infrastructure 


Function: Agribusiness 

Activities: Plan farming and purchase materials 
Cultivate, produce and process farm products 
Package and store finished products 
Distribute finished products 
Support use and maintenance of products 
Dispose of products 
Manage waste products from the livestock 


OFFICES (including offices in facilities) 


Function: Plan, set procedures and standards for operations 
Activities: Store documents, photos, inmate records 

Heat/cool and light office and storage space 

Generate office waste 


Function: Build and replace facilities 
Activities: Buy goods and services for construction/ demolition 
Generate construction/ demolition waste 


Function: Train personnel 

Activities: Provide classroom instruction 
Provide field training and target practice 
Heat/cool and light training space 


Function: Travel 
Activities: | Use motorized vehicles (cars, trucks, airplanes, trains, buses, taxis) 
Stay in hotels 


AREA: INMATE PROGRAMS 


Function: Prepare inmates for release through education 
Activities: Buy books and writing supplies 

Buy and operate computers 

Inform inmates of societal values 

Train inmates for the job market 


Function: Provide safe reintegration of inmates 
Activities: | Operate community-based residential beds (halfway houses) 
Provide offender supervision 


Function: Provide chaplaincy services 
Activities: | Ensure appropriate accommodation of religious/spiritual needs 
(sacred space, worship, diets, religious literature, etc.) 
Provide spiritual counseling to assist with safe reintegration into community 


Function: Provide recreation 
Activities: Buy recreation equipment 


Function: Provide health services 

Activities: Buy medical supplies 
Identity and address physical and mental health needs (including treatment for substance abuse) 
Promote health (including avoidance of injury and illness and prevention of substance abuse) 
Detect and control infectious diseases 
Produce and manage biomedical waste 
Dispose of biomedical waste in a safe manner 


22 “TIONAL SERVICE CANADA ® SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY: REVISION 2003 


Technical Note 


WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 
The basic system units of measure used in this document are: 


Item Unit Symbol 
weight gram g 
volume litre iF 
length metre m 
energy joule J 


Each multiple of one thousand of the above units has a separate prefix with its own symbol. Some used 
in this report are: 


Increment Prefix Symbol 
one thousand (10°) kilo k 

one million (10°) mega M 

one billion (10°) giga G 

one trillion (10'”) tera T 

one quadrillion (10") peta F 


These metric system prefixes allow us to avoid compound terms, such as "thousands of kilograms," 
which is better expressed as megagrams, for which the symbol is Mg. One Mg is often called one tonne, 
for which the symbol is t. One thousand tonnes is one kilotonne, for which the symbol is kt. One kt is 
also one billion grams, or one gigagram, for which the symbol is Gg. The gigagram is used in this 
document because the gram (g) is the basic unit of weight. 


One thousand litres is one kilolitre, for which the symbol is kL. One kL is often called one cubic metre, 
for which the symbol is m’. There is no term for one thousand cubic metres; rather, the term for this 
volume is one megalitre, for which the symbol is ML. The millilitre is used in this document because the 


litre (L) is the basic unit of volume. 


CHEMICAL NAMES 
The international system for naming chemicals uses abbreviations that involve symbols for the 
elements that make up compounds. Abbreviations found in this document include: 


CO, carbon dioxide NO, nitrogen oxides HC1 hydrogen chloride 
CH, methane SO, sulfur oxides VOC volatile organic compound 


In addition, the abbreviation PM10 is used for particulate matter smaller than 10 microns in diameter, 
which is fine dust that can remain suspended in the air for extended periods of time. 


23 


7 » ; 
7 7 Ss a : vr as 
: - Sa - 


~ me) & tereienre ct sei lod 
Ym 


7 
- 
l ; 
. 
a ase 


@ 
‘ea 
ia 
iz 
a | 
ai 
, 
A ee 
3 | Geary Nard ft okale isa “hi ; 
; ; 
: oi: (Aree op pea oull sues 
he * ~~ 
“ie dg ae 
| ee vid 
om ; ™ » 6CAN ; wre) Thea 4 


=4 > 
, oye 
i eT ee 


. - 
oy - t r] 7 - pa ahi tha ve 7 : _ 
9 — 7 =—— - 


sere ree a, Pan py Gi a 
’ wee ea . 


— 


ha V4 cers att pig) ony Dire a Gaye we raaegs _ 

TL Lee MNP an ; ee ee opi irista® : 
a WLS <4 &) Pyit | er es 
ae rina 

* an eet pe ieet HEL PO + epg to 

Par ye Pn Sm: iw , e“Tpceh, © pe gy 9c) Mine ere 
Weneyioces ou Las ¢ . (iG llee * amy ode 

© spitin.. main | sh > ian ai eed 


_ . 
- - De ' ; : , 
7 


2 7 -_ | - 7 


7 
a Ya 


va 4 

> : Pid . 

_ 7 « Ry a) os : 

: ‘bP HI | . i f ; 

eae ae “J p Sf 
estos | | - 


Le 


‘Ire | suep uorsuadsns ua sdwia}3uo] Jajsax ynad mnb arpnod aur aun p sioye 
13S [I SUOINIUW QT & IMNITIIFUT aNQweIp UN_P safnotysed say J9UsIsap k 1198 OTINd UONErAgIge J ‘snd aq 


sjyaeyoa sonbrue3i0 sgsoduios AQD adjnos ap sapaxo “QS sueyjow "HD 
qugsOIPAY,P 2NJOTYD IDH 2302? p sapaxo0 “ON gu0gsed ap apAxoIp “QD 


: SdJURAINS $3] 3}dUI0D UO ‘JuaUNIOp JUasgid 

J] SUPP SIdSTTIIN SUOTILIAZIE So] TUNITY “9sOdWI0d NP s]1}N}1}SUOD s}UI]9 So] JURUSISEp sajoquIAs 
sap nied e sag[nuso} suOTeTAgIGe Sap asi]IN anbrw1YD sINjJePUIWIOU ap [BUOTLUIIJUT IU}SAS 9] 
SANDIWIH) SWON 


“pAepUe}s IINSIU 9p NUN J aNjI]SUOD 
[Il 1ed JUatUNDOp Juasaid 9] suLp amqT[eBU J] ast[IIN UO “TW Iso gJoquuds 9y anboy Inod ‘aujyvsaw sw113} 
3 10yNYd astpIWN Uo ssaqnd so7}9WU Ap Jay]IIU UN JousIsap Inod suJ9} UNONe 9}s1Xa U TJ “ctu spoquuds ay red 
gusisap sa mnb ‘aqnoa aja un gjadde yuaanos jsd TY UA “TY IS9 sJoquuds uos ‘aujzo]1y UN 4Sa Sat] TTI 


‘PALPUR]S JINSIUI IP 9HUN J IN}}SUOD [I Jed JUaUINIOp Juasgid a] suUeP IUTWUTLISLSIB J] ASTIN UQ “34H IS9 
JOQUIAS 9] JUOP IUTUILISLSIS UN IITP-R-]Sd9 ‘SIUIWILIS IP PILIJIU UN IUTIJUAI PY BUA) ‘PY 3S9 sJoquiAs 
9| JUOP AUUOJO]1Y UN JSd SIUUO} IP JOTI UL “} Sd I[OQUIAS 9] JUOP ‘aUU0J IUUII} 9] Jed JUBISSp JUSANOS 
189 3 AT BJ 389 9JOquuAs 3] JUOp sowUTeIZeBOW Jojadde p xnatwu JUatAUOd [IL Nb sawiuvssOp1y ap sAayjIU 
anb sya} saxa[duros saut1a} ap roydura | Jay1A9 p Joutsod onbiyjaur auraysds np soxygid sao ap uoTyesipyN J 


d ead (01) PxPtTEG UN, 
uh eI} (01) HONG UN, 
5) e818 (01) preryfrar up, 
W edu (01) worrar uq 
oy (01) a1 
ajoquidsg dxXIJoaIg Jed uonesrydnnyyy 


: 40ddei Juasgid 3] suep sastiyn Jos saxijgid sao ap sute}sa9 ‘aidoud jsa my mb afoquids un 
red gusisep axyaid un p aouasaid ey sed sanbiput jsa amnsawi ap yrun aun p 000 [ sed uoneoydynw ey 


{ 3ino/ a1d19Ug 

w a2 InansuoTy 

‘i WT JUINIOA 

3 dUIUIe IN) splog 
ajoquids oyu aInsayJl 


: JUJUINIOp JUasgid J] sURp sagst[yN snbrygu auIa}sAs Np aINsatll ap saqTUN Say 110A, 
SAYNSAW 13 SGIOd 


anbLuYyda} 81ON 


S002 NoTcraqy * saavunn 
tOO0¢e NOISIAIY = FISVYNG INIWI3d {O19A90 30 ATOFIWHIC © WawNWT 7 
BU SU SLIZLVULS - VOVNVD TSNN¢ 


J1Te]LINIYS UOSL] 9UN, P XNKIIPPWOI sJoYIPP So] JOUTWT[Y 
XNVIIPPUIONG $}aYaP Sap 19198 Ja aINpo1g 

SISNIIIIIJUT SOIPL[EU $3] Ja]9.UOO }2 19J999q 
(aTuetIODTx0} eB] ap UONUaAgAd ey anb 


QUIQUI ap SIIPETEU Sa J9 SAINSSAIq $3] Ja}AZ.P SUOSRJ sa] JUeNPUT) PIURs PT OANOLWOId 
(aTueWOITXO} e| ap JUaUTa}Te.] a] stIduOD 


A) arreysiaes sa] Ja areyuaut ja anbisdyd gques ap aigijeut Uo suTOSaq Se] JOULE}? 
sa[RIIP9UT S2INIIUINOJ Sap J9}9YSV 


91URS Op SBILAJS sop sLuino 


: SQUANOY 
: uoLlWUOJ 


92 


G2 £002 NOISIAIY * JIGVYNG LNIW3ddOTSAIG 4G JTDILVYLS - VOVNV) TSNNOILDIYNOD JDIAYAS 


SJISIO] Op [alsayeu Np 1aya4yOy 
SILSLO] BP S9ILAJVS Sap JaINSsy 


2 NEUNUIUIOD 

R] ap Ulas Ne UOTeIZ9IUTII BUTeS DUN ITUaJNOs Inod JanqtIds Sutfasunod np MuINOy 
(‘d]9 ‘asnarBIfas aNye19}T] ‘Sa}QIp ‘g1atid ‘sarses saoedsa) 

sjanjiatds /xnatsifaq sutosaq xne aipuodgs nod sagtidosdde spipoutwiod say Jainssy 

ILIIUOWNE, Pp SBILAJVS Sap JLUINOY 


syuenburjap xne uorstAsodns ey ap JUNOT 
(UOTISUeI] IP SUOSTLUT) SaITeJNEUNWIWIOD S[ITUAPIS9s S91JUII Sap Joy0[dxgq 
SNUaIP SAP a]LLIOS UOLWaSULAJ Ee} B}LINIAS 3}N0} UA JaINSssy 


[leak] np sysew 9] nod snuajgp so] JOWIOJ 

9191908 B] ap SINI]RA Sap SNUd}9p Sa] JOWIOJU] 

SINIJCUIPIO Sap JayO[dxa ja JaJayOV 

SOITETOIS SIINITUINO] Sap Jd SdIAT] SAP JI}OV 

UOLJELUIOJ &} AP JULAJO IN|] Ua ayaql Ua asi ina] e Snuajap $a} Jaiedaig 


SANJLIG SAG NOILNALNI1 V SAWWVUD0Ud 


s]210Y Sop suep sinol9s sap JaInssy 
(SIXb] ‘sngoyne ‘SUTeI] “SUOTAR ‘SUOTUTED ‘SO]NL) SISTIOJOU SI[NITYIA IP ITAIIS IS 
Jade}dap as 


UONPULIOJ PT & SPAIISII XNIT] SO] JOITJI9 Jo JaSIJVUNT]D /Jayjney) 
41] IP SIDTIIIX9 SIP Jo UTPII9} J] ANS UOTJBULIOF P| Ip ITO 
SINOD SIP ITO 

Jauuosiad 3} JaWI04 


UON![OW Pp Ip }9 UOTJINI}SUOD ap s}aYDPpP Sap d1INpolg 
UONTJOULYP | Jo UOTJIN.YSUOD eT INO sadIAJas Sap 9 SaSIPULYOILUI Sap 19}9yDV 
SUOL}E}]e}SUL Sap 199e]dWas ja aiLN1jSUuO) 


NeaINq ap sjoydap Sap dINpolg 
IBLYIO}S dp Sate Sap ja XNKIING sap JaIep Jd JaseUNT|D/JaNeY 

snula}9p ap SJaIssop sap ‘so}oyd sap ‘s}UatUNIOp sap 194901$ 

JUDWIUUOLIUOJ BP SAWIOU Sap ja Sainpadoid sap saiOQge}—a ‘“JaLyLUe} 


(sjuawiassijqeja Sap ULes ne xneaing sa) jueN}IUL) KNVAYNG 


° 


: SQUAW 
UOL}IUO4 


: SMATOY 


uoL}DUOJ 


: SOUATIOV 


uoLJDUO 


: SUANIY 
uoL}IUO4 


: SUATIY 
uOL}IUO4 


: SQUANOW 
uoL}IUO4 


: SQUANIY 
uol}U04 


: SAY 
uol}UO4 


SOO7 NOTCTAIM - wuOna IN ? IWAI0 20 
COVe NOISIAIY + FIAVUNG LNIWIddOTSAIG 3G ILOIVYIS - VOVNYD TaN NOLL) 
gM “J } vO 2 JVIN TININ 30 


2 


[H819q 9] Jed syinpord syaypap say 19195 

syinpoad sap Jourunyg 

syinpoid ap uanjasqua | 19 UORRSTTIN | JTUaynos 

stuy syinpord sap ranquysiq 

STUY] syinpord sap JayIo}s Ja JayTequiy 

s9[0o118e syinpord sap Jawtsoysue J armnposd JATIN) 
[PHI IPU Np JaJayse Jo sapOotse saLANV sap JayIUR]g —_: SPWATIOV 


esudaijuaoiby : uolu04 


SoIMJIMNSEAJUT Sap Ja Sa|qnautu sap OUTWIT 
SOINJIMISCJUT Sap Jo Sa|qnIWUM Sap UaTja1}UA | Jo UOTJeST[NN J JaB8esn0 DUA 
SdINIJIN.IISLIJUI SIP Ja Sa|qnaUuIUUT sap JoAoUaL Ja aTIN.QsUO) 
XNPIIJ JEU Sap JaJYe J9 SAINJIN.IISLAJUT Sap Jo SI|qNIUIUNT Sap MOAIIUODD —_—: SPYTATIOV 
UOL}INIYSUO} : UOL}IUOY 


syinpoid sap Jour Y 
sympoud ap uarjazjU9 | 39 UOTJeST[NN J Jasenoougq 
stuly sympoid sap JanqI4zsIq 
stu] syinpodd sap 19x90} Jo Joyfequigq 
XNPIJIJCU Sap JOWIOJSUeIT, 
XNPLI9]U Sap Jajayoe jo synpord sap OAINUO)) ~—-: SQHATIOWV 
| SOLAS “S9]L}X9} ‘UOL}EILIGey : UOLJDUOY 


me NVJYO) > 7uIV 


UOTLULIOJ LP] B SPAIISII XNA] $9] JAMLI9 Jd JasIeUITp Janey 
II] P SIIDAIX9 SOP J9 UlLIII} I] INS UOTLULIOJ P| IP ILO 
SINOD Sap IJQ — : SPUATOV 
yauuosiad a] JaW404 +: UOL}DUOY 


(sIxe} ‘sngoyne ‘SuTeI] ‘SUOTAR ‘SUOTLIRD ‘SO]NL) SPSTIOJOUT SI|NITYIA ap IAJAS 2g: S9YIANIOY 
Snudajap $2} Jasaysues, *% UOLWDUOJ 


sagsn xnea sap UoTeIndg p ja nea | ap JUaUIa}Te.] 9p SUOTJP][eISUI Sap UdTaUq 
(999 ‘xnerguas srarysenb ‘sjuatasst]qejg) SJUIWIT eg op UONBAOUYI Jo UOLJIN.YSUO) 
ST}QUILIAd 9] 19 JIATIV P Sate Saj ‘Sa[N][29 saj JoIepI9 Jo JaseUMT]D Janey 
SUTBIIA} $3] 19 S2[QNAWUT Sa] ‘PULATIIE P SMe Say ‘Sa[N][9 sa] AUsjeUY 
alJapueNg ap SAdIAJas Sap ILO 
JURINGILI Np 19YI0IS 
SOURTIIOAINS ap alI9}BUI ap 19 (SUOTUTED ‘sOINL) SPSTIOJOUT S2|NITYPA oP ATATOS IS 
SdITRJUIUUT]R SIITAIAS Sap IUINOJ 

snuajgp sap ajenbape apres ej Jomnssy =: SUATIY 

snuajap sap a2ue}LaAins e] 3a apseb e] Jainssy : UoljUO4 


STANNOILIINNO) SLNAWASSINEVI > JuIV 


39S NG SILIALLIV * T AXINNV 


€¢ 


d[eJUIWIIUUOITAUS 
UONPeSIfIGIsuds ap SUOISsIs ap soIdyjaueq Juede aguUe anbey spJ9ql] snua}yp ap aiquiou - 
ISILYPEP Ua SIL SapT]Os sjoygp sap splod . 
dast[iyn ajqejod neayjap awimnjoa .« 
sasnan}ajap saasn xnva sap UoTeInds p suONe]]eISUT Sap SaqINy Sap ja sjalaI sap sUINOA « 
saplorjsad no steisua 
‘SalIg}2eq Sap JURUA}UOD Ja SafooTIse suOTeI9do Xe snp JUIWIIT[aSsINJ op XNva p ja SjafaI Sap 9UINJOA « 
SPUTUILJUOD Sd}Is Sap dURUDAOId 
ua ‘sanbrurryd saouejsqns sap JULUd}UOD JUIWI]JaSsINI op xnea_p Jd SJIAIXT] 9p Sjafad sap suINJOA .« 
Jasely NP Ig][PA P| 19 JOSPUT-IOqQaNnH 
IOPI1109 a] sup Siatforjad syinpoid ap JUaWapIOgsUeI} ap SaHAIIe Sa] Jed stw9 AQD sep sprod . 
IISLL] NP I9T]RA PJ J2 JOSPUTM-agGaNH JOPIIIOS 3] SUP STUD “ON Sep sprod . 
UOT]SNGUIOD ap SddINOS $a] $9No} Jed sayinpoid “QD ap suorsstuls sap spiod . 


: SJUBAINS SO] JUOS SUOJOST[NN SNOoU anb (« SINQ}JeTPuUr » no) JUIWIIPUII IP SOANSIUW SIT 


‘ajqeinp 
yuawaddojaagp 9] S194 $a1801d sap je} SUOAR SNoU Is JoUTULIA}9p JOAnod yuatnaa Inb ‘sauuatpeur’) 39 
SuaTpeuR) Sap ja SadreJUauayred sap saouasrxo xne nb isure Juaulapual a] Ins $}10dde say] suep syey[NsoJ 
xne s0ue]JOdui apuess aun aps0soe Inb Josaip, Np flasuoy Np ssouasrxo xne sipuodgi tsure suosinod 
SNON YWY sureysoud say suep sasiogid snjd saguuop sap Jo}Uasgid ap jo sais01d sou ap aydtuos aipual 
ap syoeded asQOU Jo]UIUBNe P Ue S99UUOP ap aIsies ap sautaysAs SOU JaLOTTaWe Pp sUdJONUTUOD snou 
‘MANBIA Ud BIBS CONT UOIsIAay ek] anb yuepuag ‘sainsout 339 JUaAnad inb jo satyad JUstuaNbIBo] Juos nb 
S3]qId Sap ja syda{qo sap ‘synq sap T]qeI9 “CQO UoIsiaay eT SUep ‘sUOAR snoU ‘s}Joddes say JaroTaure Nog 


“UOTINJOAD Ud dJOIUD JUOS Sd99UUOP Sap dINsaul Ip Satua}sds SOU ap suTe}190 anb 
jie} Ne anp jsa UOTJENIS 9}}9+ *SNUI}qGO $}eINs9J Say INs JUSTULUeSTyINs sed sTeUI “JS NP Sayjaed SPHAIIe 
Sa] Jo SANAVA SPATE $9] I1JUA $].199 Soy INs yUa}od YY sou suep saquasaid Juos mb syuatausrasual 
sa] ‘ajqeinp yuawaddojaagp ap a18a}ei]s a1j0U ek IdeI3 Sast[eai suOAe snou anb saisoid say Ins 
SUOTJLULIOJU SAP JUIUUITJUOD €(0Z-ZOOZ 991919X9 J OP (YY) JUowWpuar np ainsowi ey Ins syzoddei saq 


‘Sa4801d SOU SUOLAANSAUL SNOU JUIWUILUOI ajuasatd U01]IAS 344) 


S9}dW09 ap UOLLppay 


€002 NOISIAIY : ATaVYNG LNIWIddO13A3 40 3T9F1VYIS - VGYNY) TaNNOT 


(CUdDd: Ud) 9S Np uoneonpes p 
suueIZ0Id a] QUItIa} yUOINe nb snUa}9p Sap a4sI] eT Jammdoid as ‘a1)sauras anbeyd Yomrves 


SNOILIV 


SauLepuodas Sapnja,p awweiboid ne saaibaqul JuOs saoue~as Sa) “JUaWaUUOJIAUA p 
DZHEW Ud UOLJeSI}LGLsUas ap SadUe~as sap e adioiied uO aauUe aNbeYD sasaqly snuajap seq 
Tee 31819 


(‘[qe12 Pp sIn9}d9IIq 
- Udq) sJuswlasstpqeya sa] sno} ainpout e uodey ap adepoAdaI ap saurtueIB0Id say aIpuayy = F'Z'T'E 
(‘]qe}9 Pp sin9qaII(] : 
Udq) saseyfequia sing] Wusuuasdar no/}a yuastnpad sjinb inod sinasstusmoj sj Jaae JIDOBIN —-€“"T"€ 
(LSD: Add) saseypequue sj Jaynoysed 
Ud (YE) JapoAdaI ap Jd JasiyIynal ap “a1Inpal ap saypiqissod sa Ans ‘a1p10 J sup ‘JueIJUIIUOD 
as ua ‘s}Inpoid sjaysap ap sayquenb sap uorjonpes ap sanbryesd sayyiqissod saj JawIyUoD = 7'ZT'€ 
(LSD: Uda) 


sasieypeap xne sadoaua sapljos sjaysap op sayjuenb sap adUatgJaI ap NLIATU a] JOWIYUO = |Z" "€ 
SNOILIV 


sabieyrap Sa] SUBP Sapl]OS SJaYyIEP Sap UOLJeULWa,] ap UO INpsy 
ob’e 3181) 


4 


te 2 NOISIAIY : JIGVYNG LNIW3ddO1SAIG 3G FTOIVYLS - VOWNVD TANNOLLIIYYOD JDIAYIS 


(URd10D Yq “[qeIP,P SIM9}dAIIC : Yqq) awWINJoA ap seysorid sap woTIUO} 
Ud NLI] JasIWIOUOI Pp JUL} IUTIAd sfIyIsodsip sap Ja]TeISUT NO/J9 snssad0I1d Soy JOBIIIOD ET T'E 
(ued10) Fd ‘ESO : Udq) nea p aysod aun sJautesqua Jueanod snssado1d s3j Ans yURIJUIOUOD 
as Ud ‘NIP UOILWWOSUOD ke] ap UOTJINpa1 op sanbiye1d sayyiqissod say JowIyUOD ZT 'T'¢ 
(URDIOD Fd ‘ISOC : Ydq) HUsraJaI ap NVI, p UOTJLWWOSUOD B] IOWIIYUO) = [TT "€ 
SNOILDV 


nea,p UOLJEWWOSUOD e} ap UOLJONp|yY 
Tre 31819 


(IDC? Udg) 319 Ina] Ja ase Inq 
Ted satjqej9 sayiolid sap Uor}DUO} Ud sagsn xnea sap UoTeInda p sUOTETTEISUT Sa] JaIOIPWY ¢"¢"['Z 
(LSDd : Ydg) eaydsorpdAy J suep 
xNbd $99 ap Jala | JURAR S}ULUTWILJUOD sap UOTJeUTUNTT p sanbryesd sayIqissod say 1aUIIYUOD = 7" T'Z 
(ISOC: Udq) Sony 19 sagjafar sagUTLULJUOD Sagsn XNvd Sop IUdIZJ2I 9p NVIATU J] JOWAYUOD = |" T'Z 


SNOILDV 


Saasn xnea Sap JuawayLes} ap SawiaysAs Sap JUBUAaAOId SazLN} sap 
anb isute afar ap quLod ne sawuou saj sed juej~adsa au sjnoba,p sjuanyye sap uoLNpey 


€°t’e 41819 


(URdI0D FQ : Ud) Seno sap JuowoyeI] ap ja ainqdeo ap sautaysds sap JayeIsU] = ¢"Z" TZ 
(ISO: Ud) eeydsompAy] suep yuaddeypg s ou spi.nb yueae ainydeo IN] ap JaINsse s 
ap NO syuanpJe sfo} ap uoInpoad e| J9A9_p JuRourJad sonbyeid saypiqissod say IawIyUoD = 77" [7 
(uedI07) Fd : Ud) Saoorse 
suole}ojdxa say red spja{a1 sgurumeyuod sjuanyJa sap aduaryai ap Neaatu g] JaWIYUOD = [7 T'Z 
SNOILIV 


S9}09Lbe suolze}L0}dxa,p JueuaAoid 
saploijsed sap no/ja sieibua sap ‘satiazoeq sap jueUaUOD sjuamJa,p sjeles sap uoLONpay 
e°L'e 41819 


(194239,P sInaqdaII TSU ‘LS9Od : Ud) 
(9}afo1 ueUTUeIUOD ap 3y Ied 9SN9INOD SUIOU PT UO!N]OS ke] adUaIgI91d ap JuRssIstoyD ua) 


$109 Sap Jo “JUIWI][assINI Sp xnvo s2| J SJLLALXT] $9] SULP sJURUTUTe}UOD sap UONeI]UIDUOD 
B] ap ‘syuauaseydura sap saqiioiid sap uorjouoy ua 9e19 ua sauTUe}UOD Says Sa] aWOWIY = FT] 'Z 
(SLOG : 1dO) aue8y J ap spurureyuod 
Sas sap Uol}sa8 ap uRIg 3 (jUeWaTfenuUe stow ne) juauonbiporsed inof e amay ¢T'T'7 
(LSD: Ud) Azaydsorpdy J suep juaddeype s 
au sjinb Jueae ainjded ina] ap Jamnsse s ap no Juauayjassins ap xnva $29 dP NO S}ELATXI] $30 
ap uorjonpord ey Jay1A9 Pp JUe}UWLIOd JUauade]dutas ap sonbyyesd spufiqissod say auyUuoy = Z°T'['Z 
(LSC: Uda) suIwe}UOD says ap juaddeypg.s mb syerarxy 
Sap J9 JUIWIa]JassInd ap xnea sap sanbrunryp syimpord us aouargjad ap nvaatu ay IWIYUO) = ['T'T'Z 


SNOILDV 


SQULWEJUOD Sd8jLs ap JueUaAOI SanbiwLYyd 
S}iNnpoid sap JUeUa}UOD JUaWATassini ap xnedp ja S}eLALXL] ap sjalai sap UOWONpay 
Tt’? 3181) 


(LSUV: Udgq) syusuraoeydurs 
Sap saysold sap uorouoy us simadea sop uorersdnd91 ap sauiajsks sap Jay[eysuy § ¢"T'Z"] 
(ISD: Udg) aeydsowye | suep juaddeypg s ou spinb jueae ainjdeo inj ap saansse s ap no 
AO) ep UoKonpold e] Ja}1A9 p JuR}oUWJad yUaUIA.e|duIaI ap sanbyyeid sayyiqissod say 1UIIUoy —-Z"[ "7" 
(LSOC : Ud) Jases{ Np aaTjea ek] suUep Jd JOPl1IOD JOSpUIM, 
-99q9NV) JOPIIIOD J] sURP sUOT}ETTEISUT soy Jed B JodnoIB Jo BOUaIDJ9I IP NRIATU I[ JIWIIUOD = [TZ] 
SNOILDV 


jJasel4 np 


Ja}JEA &] Ja JOSPULM-DagaNng JOpLUOD a] SUep SeALQLHNY SinadeA xne sanp AQ) Sep uoLjoNpey 
T’e°r 3141) 


(LSUV ‘IO: Ud) Uouestpenau ap sautaysds sap 
red no *QN ap nad juesmmpord srng[nig sap Jed uorsstwg p S921N0s sa] JoAoupI NO Jaoeduray CTT 
(1S9d: Ydq) Aaydsoune J suep addeypgs ou [inb jueae ainjded es ap Jainsse s ap NO “ON 
ap uonnpoad ey Jay1A9._p Jueouliad yuawae|duras op sanbryeid sayyigissod say JaWIyUOD = 7'7'[" 
(ISDA: Ud) 19sely Np aga P] Suep Jo JOPII10 JOspulM, 
-Jagang) JOpII09 a] sURp sUOTIRT|eISUT sof Jed v Jadnoi3 Ja DUIIIJP1 9p NRAIATU I] JULIO) : ‘ 
SNOIL 


JaSE14 NP BayJeA e} 18 JOPLUOD JOSPULM-IEGEaNH JOPLUOD 9] SUED “ON AP SUOLSSLWD Sep UCHONPIY 
/ | e°t°t 31819 


02 


61 2 NOISIAIY : JIGVYNG INIWIddOTSAIG 3G FTDILVYLS - VOVNVD TANNOILISYNOD JDIAUIS 


(‘]qeI9,p sINI}IOTIG : Yqq) W8s19uU9 p UoTeUTUOSUOD 

Re] JUaMasaTfN39I Jaga nod y9¢ np aiB1ouay ap aorjUOD ap aposojord af arAINS = /'T TT 
(LSYV ‘IDd 

TSO : Ud) [eUso asejjneyo op sauisn sap 3e}9 Ua IsTWad auUN No JuIOd ne asTuI sUN aTeY =O" TT" 
(LSUV ID ‘ISDd: dd) 

anbrursgut a[9.1}U0d ap 39 aseIIe|I9.p SdUId}SAS XNKIANOU Sp SdUOZ SIUTR}IIO SUP JayeIsuU, = S*T “TT 

(IDd : Ydq) snjdins ua sacedsa say Journ T' TT 
(IDd : dd) 

anbrja8rau9 ayovoyjo ayney & sUOTIeTTeISUT Sap Jed suOT}E]TEISUT Sa] JAOUDI NO JaoRjdwWay = ¢*["["] 
(LSUV IDG ‘SDC: dd) Yousnquios 

ap aoinos addy anbeyd snod yuswadejduiai ap sanbryjeid sayyiqissod say JowsyUuoy) §=Z'T'I'] 

- (LSD: Ud) UaIaJoJ ap NVIATU 9] JOWIIUOD = [TTT 

SNOILIV 


UOLISNGWIOD ap SddINOS Sa] S8}N0} Jed sajinpoid °Q) ap SuOlssLIa Sap UOLJONpaY 
TE’ 31819 


(aqLqesuodsai ap aysod) azyiqesuodsai siatwaid ap neaing - udg 
(uoLbai anbeyd suep ajsixa aysod ad) 
SanbDLuYyIe} SadIAJasS Sap XxNeuOLhas SINd}eIISLULWIPY - ISYV 
sjuenbuljap Sap a}e190S UOLPAaSULal Ja BWWeIHOIY ‘}Jelauab ina}DaIIq - Gud9d 
SANDLUYIA} SBIIAIAS Sap jeJaUab Inaqalq - 1$9qG 
anbibayesjs uoljedyLuejd e] ap jeiguab inaqaiiq - S49qd 
SUOL}E}]E}SUL SAP Jes9UaH AN|apag - 19Q 
Jiyndaxa unaqe11q - 7G 


> nea[qe} 3] 
SUPP SI9STIN JUOS SIJUBAINS SUOTRIAZIQR Sa] “Ja}9[AWIOd & SUOTIDE $9] Ja Sa}U9}}e Sa] 91} ddUePIOIUOD 


PB] JIINsse,p Ue JURAINS Nea[qe} a] SUepP a9}UasoId JUDIUA]e39 JSa dIT]IGesuOdsal ke] Ap UOTINGII}}e,J 


‘SNOSSIP-1) NVI|GV] a] SUDp sajuasasd Juos $9]Q1D SOU ap AUNIDY) anod UOLJID Pp suvjd SIT 


UOL}De P SUR} 


€002 NOISIAY + FGVYNG LNIW3 


VOU LNSW3ddO13A3G 30 3I9FIVYLS - VOVNV JINNO] ) 39] 


“‘sagssteqe Saijne p ja 

SIPAITP 939 JUO Sa]qId SauTe}.199 GuauTUaNbgsuo) ‘sinba yuaUIa2IMoOssal ap NeaATU np ja yuasgid ev nbsnf 
. Pe ‘i . 

Sasa sais01d sap a[sur,] snos sayueysaz safqio $a] FUIeXdAI Issne sUOAR snou ‘snssaz0rd np sinoo ny 


(a]qQeast[39u Isa sast{qN Jus sapronsad 

Sap NO sapatyNd UOU $a149} saj ed agquasaidas aoepAns ve] anb gUTULIAIap 9}9 e [1) JIU sues SANUAAaP . 
(adeuyye np alysnpuly suep sjuauasueyp xne ayins ynpo. 

B18 a1JNOS ap apAXOIp 2) 9YIeW Np syuatwWasuEYp ap oyns sed JrOYa sues sayUIae JUSWIaTMIUAAD « 
(jUatassmnojuay e sauT}sap 

SaPI[OS sJayIP Sa] Ans ayqid ey Jed Jaanod efpp sa aueyaUI a] anb suounsse snou) saanede1 . 


: Juate}9 saqja,nb 
ao1ed sagitjal 919 JO Sa[qid say ‘saplonjsad xne sagqes] sata} sap JueUaAold syuanyyo say 1a aayNos 
dP apAXxOIp 9] ‘SULLY IUT J] JULUIDUOD S9]qID Sa] JAqUIO} assTET & IQS 2] ‘S2]qId ap ajst] 91199 JuRssT{qeIa UA 


(ZI 8 6 XneoaTU) 


sew ud Sallepuodas sapnj9.p sutues0id ne $a9189}UI JUOS saduR_S 
aguue $9’) ‘JUIWUUOIAUI P I1QW Ud UOTRSITIGIsuas ap ssdURIS 
anbeu) +002 % OF sap ev adionied yuo aguue anbeyp saigql] snuajgp sa : ['°7"€ 


S}EWLULW 1S9 SayanNpLALpuL 
Sayjauiajew sadinossa sap juawasinda)] e nuajep np uolynqujuoOd e] + @°€ 4ILIICAO 


(quedna9o red snof sed 3y ¢“] @ 8Y 9‘1 ap yuorassed mb) saszeysap 
L002-€0 0002 fo O¢ Sa] SURP SaPl[Os SJoyIap Sep UONPUTWUI] | ep UOHINPZY + CLE 


(juedno90 sed mnof red J 989k 
OLO0Z-€0 £002 o% GIT 008 ap esassed nb) neva p UOHPLUILUOSUOD Pe] ap UONINPPY : [TE 


ee ae 
FUNLOTD = 39N39N949Y 31919 


30 31VG = 30. 33NNV JLILNVND 
SJEWLULW 3S Sey}ENpLALpul 


Sa}jJaua}ewW SadiNOsseal sep juawasinda)] & 39S Np uolyNgujuos Pe] T’€ 41L939C90 


w:€ ind 


S9719UNLVN SAINNOSSIY SIG JLITIGINOdSIG V1 3d NIILNIV 


Lt €002 NOISIAIY ? JIAVYNG INIWIddOTSAIG 3G FTIIAVYLS - VOWNYD TANNOLLISYYOD SDIAYIS 


sagsn xned Sap JUIMa}1eI] ap sotua}sAs 
sap yueuaaold saqyinj sap anb rsure jafa1 ap jutod ne saus0U 
L00z-€0 7002 % OZ say sed yuvjoadsai ou s]n032.p sjuanpje sap UOTINp2Y : €°1'°Z 


saool18e suoTjeyoydxa p JueusAosd sapionsad sap no/}a steisua 
/002-€0 0002 % OL Sap ‘salJa}oeq Sap JULUIJUOD sJUsN Je P sjofas sap UOLINPIY : 7°17 


SPUTUILJUOD Sos op JuRUaAOId sanbrurtyp s}yimpord sap yueUa]UOS 
L002-€0 0002 %G  — qWewWarjassins ap xnea.p yo syeIAIXI] ap sjolar sap UONMPPY : [1° 


ENT RP MERI ENEFEL 
JQ aiva 30 33NNV 3JILNVND 3191) 


ajewiLuLW 4sa Nea) ap uol4nyod e} e 39S Np uoLyNquqUOD e7 : T°z 4TLIILGO 


JYdHdSOUGAH,1 30 NOILIILOUNd - ¢ LNd 


JISeL] NP d9][PA P] }9 JOPLIIOD JOSPUIM 
-J2g9N{ IOpls109 a suep saatjIsnj sInadea xne sanp (AQD) 
1002-€0 0002 % OZ spaejoa sanbruesio sgsodwiod ap suoIssttulg sap UOT}ONPIY : [°7'T 


a]ewiLuLW 4se Bows ne 995 np uoNguqUoD e] : 2°T 41L)aCAO 


Jaseij Np ag][ea 
P] 9 JOPIIIOD IOSPUIM-I9IqG9NV JOPIIIOD a] SUEP I1J9S OP Jajjo 
L002-€0 4002 % OL & ZeB Sap ‘(*ON) 91028 P SapAXO P SUOISSTUID Sap UONINPPY : 7°11 


UOL}SNQUIOD ap S2dINOS $a] $9}No} Jed sayinpod ‘a11as ap Jayja k Ze3 
OT02-€0 0002 fo 8 un “(*Q)) euogsed ap opAXOIp ap SUOISSTUID sap UOINPZY ¢ ['L'T 


ENT P MME RT ENEFET 
30 aivd 3033NNV 3LLLNVYND 4191) 


O}EWLULLU So senbyewjo Sjuawabueyd xne ))S Np uUOlyNgGuAUOD e] : T’°T 4T19IFCIO 


AYaHdSOWLV,1 3G NOILDILOUd : T LN 


£002 NOISIAZY : JIGVYNG LN3IW3ddOTSARG JG JTDSZLVYLS - VOWNV) TANNOIL99NNOD 39 


‘spuntiad syutod xne aouargy9i sed yey au UONDe,p 
ue] Np UOHeIOIJUINU eT ‘<UINbasuOd Ug “E00Z NoISIAPY AP DO Sap UORIUATIOII UN. P UOSTeI Ud JUdWITeSsad9auU sed 
puodsa1109 au CNQZ UOIsIAPY IP 19 OOOT UoIstaay ap sjanptarput syulod sap uonequasaid vy ‘surourueaN 002 uorsiag Y 

9P (D0) S914! sap 32 syq2a/Go sap ‘synq sap UoIdiudsap v] nod aligs Ua UONIOIBUIMU ap auiajsds un gstyyN suoae snon 6 


Cee ee neces eaeeeeeseceseeeeesereseeveseesescnee eases eeseesesesen senses eee eeen eens eeeeeeeeceeeseneeescseseeresceccsoercece 


6] aded ua uolde p uejd np Lams 4sa [1996 ay zed sud syuawa8e8ua xneaanou sa] anbiput ajueamns 
ased ef ap neayqe} a] ‘aUtt1a} Sug] & Sgz30Id 9] eraxUOWIAp Inb uodSey auN p stats anja yuassind syeynse1 3] 
anb uye onbrsoy argruewt oun,p syuatuasesua sou Joy e Japre snou snod sjuauaugag,p aureyp oun astqyn 
SUOAR SNON *SUdT] $99 JaTSNI[I p Ue sJUsUToUA9,p auTeYD no anbisoyamnjon.ys aun, p uoNesT[N | yus1aSSns 
(GaSTa) I4eInp juautaddoyaagp ap sai3pyeIs say ANs [a119}STUTLUIDJUT NeasayY Np JWeUeUTA XNeART) SI] 
‘SUII9} BUOT & Syn xNe Ja sf1}Da{qo xne sajqid sz] Jal] ap ayIssaogu vy sastidar sinarsnjd e ajadar e Gq) 7] 


0007 HOIsIAgY kT IIAP SJUIIPYOO JWOS sUaUIaseSUa XNLIANOU SZI ‘2INSatU IBIe] BUN SUL] “CQDT WOISIAIY 
P| ap Sa[qid 32 sylq9ago ‘sing xneaanou sap uOTeIOgeIA,| ap S10] AT[durod9v JUaUIa|qeuUOSTeI sUOANOd 
snou anb a0 anb tsure yueysodumt ysa mb a9 naad suoae snou Uy 2}}29 YG ap sjuautaseBua sou Ja}dadsau 
dP INA Ua $}1OJJa SOU JINUTJUOD sUOAap snou ‘ajuR}IOduT adej9 aun gnbieur ev EQOZ UoIsiAgy anbionH 


(30a) S31919 13 S41LD3C90 ‘Sing 


‘TIUDAR | SUP dIQTULUT 9}}99 ap dITe] J] 9p JANUUOS puazud Ud 9 ‘syJodde1 ap sapoyjaut saquarayIp 
jURSTTIN Us gsi[ea1 saisoId a] Ja sayAtjOe sas anbrunwwos 4)¢ 92] We} 99 9q “NDS Np Jepueu np 
arsed yey nb ayediourid ayrarjoe oun anjiysuod aarqoe uorejndod ey suep sjuenburjap sap aovoyJa a[e190s 
UOTJISUIAI BT XNEIO] SJUIVIIUIIANOS Sap Jd Io] | ap UOTJeor|dde ua ‘ouIO Np UoTUaAgId Ud sorTeUayIed 
dp uoTJeI9d009 ek] ap UTOSaq sUOAR snoU Jajjo aud [I,nb nod ‘snou Uoag ‘JaIJUa apuOU! Np Jayed 
sues ‘epeury ne ajqeinp yuowaddoyangp 9j yewmndo neoaru un e Joaaqa sed jnad ou V9 9] ‘AWIgUI-IN] 9q 


S3SIHLOdAH 


"UO1]SaB P| Ip 
ueyd a] Ans aispUt ayja,nb uoruaye p neaatu 9] ‘a[q19 onbeyp ek JoUUOp suOTNOA snou Is saguue sanbjanb 
Ip INIIgIUT] & S99IPEIU a1}9 JUAATOP saqid sou ap yzednyd ke] anb stav,p satumuUros snou “UOTITAUOD 
3199 JURUDIUTEUI Ud MO], ‘qq Np aula aouassa anjIsuO0d suaTpeueD ap UONRIZUPs dUTeYyDOId 
ey inod uonesyrueyd ej anb nuuosal ev 96 2] Ad Np uoneoytueyd ap snssadoad np ynggp 2] sindaq 
sue STON] & daqTUNT aTJarodura} aarqdadsiad aun ge sanua} JOS Ua,s sa1BayeIs sinaisnyd uiguas snajvayfii9A 
a] Ans 107 Re] suep agtndns snof e astu ap aouasrtxa | ap asned e,nb g1]UOUWyp & UONPIYLI9A IMs] “aWI9} 
BUC] B aatjoadssad aun Ja}dope yuaatop sales9po} TS $2] ‘sanbisaqeds aja,p uye,nb aiepep & (CAD PT 

SdW4L 37 SNVG SAATLIIdSUad 


‘UgWIIUUOITAUA | INS s}oeduut say aru] Mb argruBUT aUN,p $7198 JUOS SadINOSSal SIS Jo SUOTILT[RISUT Sos 
anb sarnsse,s e ajsisuod ‘aratnsimod e JanuTyUOD Hop JOs a] anb suy sap aup) ‘Ijdttos2e suoAap snou anb 
suy sa] Juanbgsuod Jed ja ‘apuOU aIJOU JoIN}INI}s SUOASP SNOU JUOP USE] P] ATOA & JQUaTHWOD suoAnod 
SNOU ‘UOISIA 3}]99 ap N}J9A UY “WoWIUUOITAUS UOS Joae aTUOWTeY ua nb Isure ‘SuISIOA SOU Ja JW9U 
aja 2aae xed ua axia,p eranutjuoo uoNendod agjou anb ynaa epeueD Np AUAe,| INS YS NP UOISTA CT 

NOISIA JuLON 


‘saauun saurvysod sa] {nod sastagd suvjd sou sap ajiD44 uol}2as ajuasadd VT 


Sjuawebebua SON 


ot 


Gl 2 NOISIAIY ? FISVYENG LNIW3ddOTSAIG 3G JIDFLVYLS - VOVNVD TANNOLLDIYYOD JDIAYSS 


ET ETON a /S MEF ETENADEVEFLO ELI OX | suno) Na 


“s]ayDap Sa] INS saguUOp Say Jo][IoAINs J 19} 10ddea “nstes ap ‘anbrrjod aun 
red ‘smnbas JUBUaJUTRU JUOS s}UIUTassT]qei? Sa] SMO], ‘a[qId ay}20 ev Wodde Jed gstpe9s 
saisoid aj ns npuas a}duro9 a] JUsUIadeIqJo JonbrunwWUIOS ap ainsau Ua 9}9 sed BU 
JS 9] Juanbasuod seg "sag{O1JUOI sasrEYaP So] SIOA JUTUTOYPR [alIayew ap gyUueNb 
B] & JUIIANPL]II SajeX9 S9ZUUOP Sop JOUAJI[NS9I I[[landa1 ap IOJIp $a} 

€) ea | ¢3 dia & [] (anof red yuednovo sed 3y 7°Z) ny prnofne s]qeo1[dde asodue jsa [I nb guuop 
juej}9 ‘sue XIp & A [I ZANSIUI IOUIIZJ9I OP NRIATU UN dsI{IyN OS IT : SalTeJUIUIWO)) 

‘(quednoz0 sed inof ued 6y 0’T e by 9‘T ap quojassed inb) sebieydap 

S93] Suep Sapljos sjaysap ap sjalei sap % BE ap UOLJINP|J ‘YOO? SEW LLG 

et’? 31919 


‘yuedno90 sed nof red 

T 008 8 aysnler aja v IOUdIIJOI Op SUINJOA JT “JUTE 919 sed BU YSTA UOTJRUTWOSUOD 

OP NKAATU 9] “ISUTY ‘a}ST[eII WOU Jo ovdFJo sed j1e}9 U IPqID 9]]99 ev yoddei Jed sgu801d 

NP TAINS JT ‘dAT}IIFJa UONLUWUOSUOD LT B INITIPJUT 19 UOIII ZAPAR 4S38 QYNZ 99UUR | 

° x] x] Inod J 009 & I]qe}9 DUdISJOI 9p IUUNIOA J] ‘UIUUeXa JAANOU UN k& ajING : SarTeJUITWIOD) 
*(quedno90 ued inof ued 7 ogy & 1 009 ap 

ejassed inb) nea,p UOLZeWWOSUOD 2] AP % OZ ap uoLJNpai ‘yOO? SueW 191, 

T’t’y 31819 


WLU LW 1S9 S8}/ANPlALpUL So}JPUVJEW SBDNOSSA Sop juawasinda e975 Np UOl{NguAUOD Be]: T°y 4T1DICIO 


"sa]]o1njeu sadinossai Sap sy] Iqruodsip e] ap uatUTeUI aT: PING 
SIJUNOSSAY SAG NOILVSTIILN 


v/a | bs) 


‘IQUUR | IP SINOD Ne szsaql sJuenbuTjap sap % PE aJUasgidai tnb 99 A] WAT 


NO [J] Vay NVIAIU ap UOTJLONPZ Pp SINOD Sap & S}IOSUI JUITLIIS ZHE Z ‘COOT-ZO0TZ 
991DIIXO J IP SINOD Ne 91JOqI] Ud sTUI 919 JUO INb syuenburjap s¢Q Z saq : SarteUSUIUIO) 


<) Ga ‘€) "(ZL & 6 XNSALU ap) SauLepuddaS SapnNja,p awwebold ne 


SagiDa}UL JUOS SUOLSSAS Sd) “JUBWIUUOILAUS,P dal}eW Ud UOLJeSLILGISUaS 
ap SUOLSSaS Sap e adidipied JUO vauUe anbey) saiaql) snuajap sap % Gz 
Tbe 31819 


SJULLOAUWI }sa XNe}USWAUUOALAUA SawWe}qold ap aiaew Ua Snuajap sap UOeONpa] e 9S Np UONqGUAUOD e7 : L°€ 4LLDACIO 


‘aPULIB }S9 JUIWIUUOATAUA,p 21QTJLUT Ud SoUUOSIad sap UOTWeSITIGISUaS BT: ¢ Ng 
SANA3LIG $30 YNLNA 37 YNS JINAN TANI 


70-€002 | €0-2002 | 20-1002 
Les 


JINIFLLV 7) 


| 
70-£002 | €0-2002 | 


JANALLY N3/FI0NVLIY §Q 


‘ 
| 


€002 NOISIAY * FgVvUNa INJW4dd019A30 JQ 3I9FIVYLS « YGVNY) TANNOTLIIYYOD IDIAYIS 


SYNOD N3 ‘<) 


99 UILIOII STOJaINO} Bsas stew apqeot{dde snyd suop ysa,u a]qtd a}Ja7) ‘sjalar $9] 
sed jua}e.] au nb xnediorunur sauraysds sap ssaA JuTUIaYIe }sa.U 9}1eJ] UOU Juana 
unone nb suru JUO sagsn xnva sap JUaUra}TeI} op sautsn say Ans syuanbasqns 
XNPARI} Sa(] ‘S99He1] UOU S99sN XNva $a] JULUIIIUOD IOUAIIJ9I 9p NRIATU UN TUINO] 
e a1gydsospAy_] suep syuanyja,p sjafar say Ins ysoddes un ‘7907 Uy : samejUaTWO) 

‘sjafas sa] sed juazLe1} au inb xnedioiunw 
SawWia}sAs Sa] S19A SAaQULWIaYIe JUOS Saasn xnea sa} anbsio} sjuawijeg 
Sap jueuaAoid saasn xnea ua sjalas Sap % OZ ap UOLJNpai “yOOZ Sue LLG 


yt? 31819 


‘afqio aq}a9 suoramnsinod snou 
anb sed aynsnf au ‘91.1089}e9 31399 suep JUasse[D as Inb yg np soso} sap aIoy1adns 
eT] ‘saplonsad ua sgsreyo sJuanyjJo Sa] JURUIIOUOD 9dUIIZJ91 IP NRIATU UN TUINOJ 
e alaydsoipAy J suep sjuanpja,p sjofar say ans ysoddes un ‘7907 Uq : sarteyUIUIWOD 

‘Saploiysed xne Sages} Se1l9} 
ap JUeUdAOIA SjUaN4a,p Sjafe1 sap % OG ap UOLINpa ‘yOOZ SueW LdL,g 
e°b°e 314819 


‘Q0UdI9IJ9J ap NKIATU NP UOTeUTITFUOD eT JURAe aoeId UA sTUT ang sed jnad ou 
suoTINpa $ao JoJUatUNIOp k JURAIAS UOIRIEPAp ap auUia}sAs a] ‘s}afad Say a1INp9s Inod 
afqissod azjou arey e suonuTjUOD snou anb uaiq ‘slew “a9JOL[PUe JIS }9 a]qeINISIp Iso 
90U19]91 9p NEIATU 99 ap aITIqey eT ‘sojaynoy, ‘sapootse suorey10]dxa say red spjafar 
SJULUTLUUOD Ud SaBIeYO SJUIN]JJo So] JUPUIIOUOD JdUAIIJII ap NLIATU UN TUINO] 
e a1aydsorpAy suep sjuanyja,p sjafar say ins Jxoddes un ‘7QQZ UY : SazTeJUSUTLOD) 
‘sajooube suoe}o)dxa,p yueuadoid saploysed sap no/je siteibua sap ‘sauiajaeq 
Sap JUeUAa}UOD SjUaNya,p Sjefe1 sap % OT ep UOLJINpy ‘YOO? SAeW L91,q 

ete 41481) 


VAS 


€T )0Z NOISIAIY ? JISVYNG LNIW3ddOTSAIG 3G FTDILVYLS - VOVNVD TANNOLL99YNNOD JDIAYIS 


WINILY @ «NALLY N3/330NVIIY ED synod Na @ 


“QATIPJUA} 9}}99 ap ated sed yuo} au Yuanbasuod sed Ja yOS np 
g0u1a}9dt09 ev] ap sed yuaaayal aU ‘9]9.1JUOD UOs ap sIOYap Ua JOS VS 9] Jed sagstpN 
sag[ouo) sasieysap sap yueUsAold syerArxI] ap sjofa say ‘spysolid sayjeanou 
sap ajdtuoo 1119} nod dastAad BIS Jo dJUTAYE 9}9 Sed BU JIqID e| Ie} 99 ap JURTNOIIq 
‘saaqa snjd say sanbsti say yueyuasaid sgutureyuod says xne ayJorid apuess snid 

‘€) €3 €3 UN JUPUAIUTeUT aUUOp Jd UOTIISOd ks aIBLIePD B JUIWIUIIANOS 2] ‘sIndaq ‘spuTUTeJUOD 
says sjqad snjd sap uotuayas e] NO/}9 WOT}DIIIOD RT INS JUaWaTedioursd stw 939 

B JUI09e J ‘dasT[eal aj9 e sanbrumyp syinpod sap JULUA}UOS JUSWaT[assIn ap xnea p 

}9 SJCIATXT] SAP IUI19JO1 Op NLIATU J] JIWITUOS INOd 3aT}e]Ud} JUL] : SadTe]USUTUIOD 

"SQULLUPJUOD SAS Bp JUBUBAOIC SANbLWLYD SjLNpoid Sap JUeUS}UOI JUSWaTjassin 

ap XNea,pP ja S}ELALXL] Bp Sjolo1 sap % OG ap UOLINpal ‘yOOZ SuewW LLG 

Tt’? 4181) 


a]PULULW Sa Nea.) ap UOLN}}Od ke) e NS Np UoLyNquyUOD e7 : T°Z 4T1ICIO 


‘a19ydsorpAy] ap 9}1139jUL] ap UOT}II}01g : Z Ng 
LNAIWANNOMIANG, 1 SNVG SLNIN1444,.0 SLICIY 


gh all HLS) 


"sayqissaooe JUIWaTIOR] sed JUOS du s}URINGIed ap sad} sao onbsind ararnsinod 
sed B19$ IU I[QID 9199) “XS IP SUOISSTUTA Sd] $9]N0} INod J9UaI9J2I IP XNIATU SIIAIP 
sa] Jaxy Inod sasinbas suoleUIOJUL $a] T[JIoNdaI & YDS I ‘TOOT UY ‘SoPMTYIA so] 
Ja SJUIWT}eQ Say INod anos Ud INIUa} B[qQIeJ B SJURINGILD ap ay]Iqruodstp ey e Juenb 

€3 €3 <) aiatjorad atiysnpul | ap Juepuadap Juawapurss sai} Isa 99 aT : SadreyuaWUIO?) 
"JueINGIeD ap UOLJEWWOSUOD e} ap suOLJONpaL 

$3] Jed sastuiad sajja2 anb snjd ap uolysnqwod ap sadinos sa] sa}no} 

Jed sayinpoid “QS ap SUOLSSLWa SAP % OL ap uoLJINpa ‘YOO? Sew Ld1.q 

cet 3181) 


“OIBITJO JIQIUPU IP IPXTF I[QID PT JoIJUOIUSI ap YAS ne eloyourod 

Jalord 3) *XON Ud SUOISSTUID SoU ap aUe}JOdUT UOTIONpal ouN Jayfa nod eine ya FOOT 

-€00Z 99UUR J ap SINOD nv 9}9[dWOD eas sanbrygs1aUd ayOVdTJa_p a1gTeUI Ud aInafew 

UOT}PAOUD ap Jalord UA “ON AP SUOISSTUD Sa] $9}N0} INod aoua‘gJaJ Ip XNVAIATU SIAIP 

Ce €3 ‘<) sa] Jaxyy Inod sasinbas suolewusojur Say I[londaI & YS 2] ‘TOOT UA : SarteyUaUTUIO?) 
"JueINqIeD 9p UOLJEWWOSUOD ke} ap SuOLJINpaL 

Sa] Jed sastuiuad sajyja9 anb snjd ap uolysnqwiod ap sadinos sa} sa3n0} 

sed sajinpoid “ON ap SUOLSSLWIa Sap % OT ap uolJNpe ‘yOOZ sue LLG 

bet 41819 


dJEWLULW S98 Saploe sainjd xne 7)S Np UOLINqUUOD e7 : €°L 4T19ICGO 


70-€002 | €0-2002 | 20-1002 


€00¢ NOISIAIY = SIGVYNG LNIWIddO13AIG 3G FINILVYLS - VOVNW) TANNOLLJIYNOD ZIANAS 21 


BINISLV @ BUNA N3/33GNvL3N EQ sunoo na @ 


"€007 ep sayeyuaWaUUOIIAUS 
S911}DIIIP SUSI] sa[[eanou sa] suep sasnpuT jus AQ) ap suorsstud $3] 
aiinpai nod sanbiyeid sauuog say ‘uorntjod ap saoanos say amps nod saypIeulap 
sap stidazjua b alysnpul | No Ja ajueysoduut snjd ey sa anbuaydsowne uornyyod ey 
no ef ‘sded np suorsai xne amp eras aIqId ve] ap uoIeat[dde7y ‘AQ9 ap SUOISSTUID P 
XNBAAIU SISAIP $9] Joxy Inod sasinbas suoieuULIOJUT say I]landa1 & YS a] ‘aJoUOD 
UOS ap S1OYap Ua JUaUla[e1PUAB JS9 IN9}dIs 39 suep JUaaoURAe J NbsInd aqid 2129 
juraqye sed eu 99g a] Juanbgsuoo seg ‘suoras sap ysednyd ey suep sajqruodsip sed 
JUUa}Uasgid JUOs 9U AQD ap suOISstUrD sap UOTJeIAdnd9I ap sautaysds sa] ‘a1aTJoNNAd 
A1I]SNPUL] IP UOsIeIAT] ap sauraisds sap yuapuadap jueIngIed ap sIOAIas9I 
Sap siInadea say ja sapiqejoa sanbrue810 sgsoduro9 ap suorsstug sa] : sazreyUsWWO) 
“SOAI}LONy Sunadea xne Ja JUeINGIed ap sazLNy xne sanp (AQ)) sazWe}OA 
Sanbluebio sasodwod ap SuOLsSiWa Sap % OT ap UOLJNpal ‘vOOZ Suew LLG 


| | 2° 9191 


‘a[qio a}399 aarnsinod sed pusqua,u 4)¢ JT ‘33U9}}e Ud STU 99 
s1oye & Jaloid 9] 39 yenbapeut aigae jso,s ddojaagp aapow aT “1007 Ua sanqdaHJa 939 


| —-- B “SagTOIJWOO saBdILYIP Sd] SIA S9BIIIP sJoyDep sop ayjuenb zJ Ans saseq ‘aUaIIJOI 
| | dP NEIATU 3d Ja[Ng]ed Ja JastT{apout nod aatje}U9} BUA “NDS Np 2[01JUOD Np sJOYyap ua 
x) x] | —- yuaurayes9ua$ yso saBxeypep saj zed 91993 suey Jour np UN Nps eT: sasreUaWTULOD 
| | ‘sabieysap sa] ued sayinpoid ‘auas 
| ap Jalja e zeb un “9 ap SUOISSLUa Sap % BE ap UOLJONpad ‘YOO? SHBW L9L,q 
| 2°T'T 3191) 


‘sanbiZojo109}9UI SUOTIPUOD xne at}sed Us a[qenqlye 3sa yeINSPI 29 “OD 
ap SUIOU % F YNpord y1e 9S a] anbrong ‘asgioueuy aguur ayuasgad ey ap sod ne “QD 
| Ud SUOISSTUID SOU ap ayUR]JOdwT UOT INpes uN Jaya Inod eine anbygs.sug aeIYJ2,P 
| a1a1jeu ua ainafew UoTeAoua ap joford UA “PUTWIa}9p 939 & IDUIIZJ9I ap “OD ep 
| @ <) | suorsstug p NRIAIU J’] “QDS Np IMapuess ej eR saqqey s9gUUOP Sap a1QUID SJUdtUAssT|qey? 
| | | say nod a1Ziau9,p suoreurwosuos sap syoddes ap auraysds up, : sarteyuavUWI0) 
| ‘UOL|SNGWOD ap SaDINOS Sa] Sa}No} Jed sayinpoid ‘asias 
| | ap Jaya e zeb un 79) ap SUOLSsiWa SAP % zZ ap UOLJNpel “YOO? SAEW LLC 
| | | EE aa) 


Santi uo sanbiqewtpa syuawabuey xne 7S Np SUOLNGLIUOD so] + TE ALLIALAO 


‘a1gydsounye | ap 9}11893Ul,| ap WOI}Ia}014 : | Ng 
: INJWINNOUIANI.1 SNVG SNOISSIWI 


70-€002 | €0-200¢ | z0-100¢2 | if Tg cS 


TT 


NOISIASY ? JIGVYNG LNIWIddOTSAIG 30 JTOZLVYLS - VOVNVD TANNOILISYYNOD JDIANAS 


‘saaytueyd jo sastiduroo xnatu JUOIaS sayjauUoNesado 
saqtun say Jed sasmbas saoinossar $2] 10 SUOTJIPUOD Sap 19919 SUOIASP snou ‘sue sap [J NY ‘sajqiuodstp 
SadINOSSII SIP UONIUOJ Ua sayuarINouOD sayIoLd sinatsnyd daar Jo[suUol Np uO saseuUOTsas 
$9] ‘C007-Z00Z atalouUeUTy agUUR | ap SINOD Ne gUaWBNe JUSWI1gB9] & BUSY J ap Jaspnq 2 Is awe 


"yuasodu s 
nb sjuaurasueyp say Jajiodde p 795 a] suep saasesua souuosiad sap guoeded P| & SUOAaPp Sa] Snou 
‘SJ09NS SON *S]e][NSI Sap Itua}qo Pp Jo sapnyjtyqe Sa] JOyIpow ap esjjauJad snou mb ao srpuasdwioo nod 
uortsod amarpiaur uatg aun suep aoeyd snou aouatiadxa asjOU ‘SUIOWURAN *Sa[qId SOU ap aJUTI}e | SIOA 
sast[eai saisord say sayuenb ap ayor) e] apoysIp npuad e mb ao “(sajejustwauUOIAUa suoNsanb sasiaAIp 
@ Juenb sajdwos ap UONIppal ap SadUa8Ixo SaTJaANou ap Jd SJatOIad SITOAIISII SOU INS 9ITWIOJUOD 
e] ap aynsinod ey ‘sauTUeyUOD SoS Sa] INS JOSPI], Np [lasuoD np sayJorIg Ja sanbiy[og) sausayxa 
suotssaid sayjaanou ap daar UOT aduOd Ud JUIIL}9 YOO UOIsIAaY SUP S2]QID Sa][aANOU sa] JURUIIDUOD 
sai8oid np tains ay anb aurgul ap ddUa19J9I Ip S99UUOP Sap 9}d9T[09 kT B SagIDOSse Saye} Sa] ‘SnOssap 
-19 xnevajqe} soy suep Wesedde ogz uolsiAay IP UOTJ]IUOJ Ud JUIWIPUAI 9] JURUIIOUOD UOT}EWIOJUT] 


$4u90Ud SIG NOLLWVNIVAI 


‘dS 2430U suep UOT}eI139}UI 
INI] IMOP sURS JUOId}ISSIOIU SJULUIAITIUOD Sap UOTUdJUT] & saUUeIZ0Id sou anb suo}e}sUOD 
SNOU ‘999 dyNe UN p ‘(snossap-1d 9yndsIp anb Ja}) 3139}e1}S JUN P ITAND Ud ISTUI 9]N0} ap say{NITFIp 
Sa] SuoUaIdu0d snou ‘9}99 UN_q INapuojoid ap Janbuew yquias ev snoU 3189}eJ}s eT ‘91]U0D Ieg 


‘sasinbad Juate}9 U SUOT}eYIpoUT ap nad anb npuos suoae snou 
‘aded Ud ast e] & UOIJdadUOd R| aq ‘aeyuaIaUUOMAUS anbrT[od a1j0U JU9}DadsaI J9 STUIJYP Ut JUOS 
JUIUIIUUOIIAUD J SIDAUA SJUIWIASEBUD SON “DDS Np xnatua xnediourid xne assaysnf dane yUapuodsar109 
S9[QID SOU Ja S]1}Da/qo sou ‘sjng sou anb s}eJst}es SUOT}D SNOU “QOQT UOlsiAgy anal Ua Juessed ug 


JLNIGIIFd JIDILVYLS JULON 


‘a1SaqDAJs 3]Ja9 4vd saasia sajqia sap ajulaj{v ] ap pavsad ua sasyva.s saasoad 
saj anb Isuiv QOQZ UOIsIAgy ap sassajqiv{ sap Ja sao.0f sap saun-sanbjanb suosaipnja snou ‘UolJJas ayja7 SUB] 


0002 UOLSIAaY ap UOLeN}eAJ 


£002 NOISIAZY = SIGVYNG LNIWIddOTIAIG JQ JISSIVULS > VOWNY) TAN 


“yodde aitey 


inod saunwwod sapoyjaw sap ja 


saunsaw sap Jaydope,p yng aj suep 

‘ddS P[ ap apAd ureypoid np sino ne 

a][nayajiod np utas ne ajqeinp yuataddozaagp 9 
INS WNIO} 29 IUIJUTeUT ap UOTUAIUT] sUOAR snou Bla rea oN Me 


00d Np sasajsiuiw sasjnep dee 


‘TMUsjo1jUa JUIUTaTIOe] SuoLINOd snou anb saovoyJa 9P Jo49 UN o}9,P ]elape} NP JUswW 
sjelieuajied sap JaWI0J ap amjawiied snou ap 
UIFY ‘NUaNos jos uresJyUa | anb JaInsse_s yUIWIUIOD 
ja sagnbydu 2139 yUaAtop sauuosied satjanb $8] J2ULOPs009 ja JaULWa}ap Inod 
JOUTWII}9P IP 9INIYJIP ey] DUIPIAS Ud JU} 
XNVJUOZIIOY sual] sap 19919 Inod sjiojJa soq 


-abebua) 1LoAnowoid ap suoisesz0 


ANIUOD d}JaL9}SLULWAIUL BALELLUL 


aun ‘(90qq) sejejuawauiaAnob 

“sauo}yoINe sap 93}9-UIIG 

9] 19 JIAINS PT Jd IWITID NP UOTUaAgId eY ‘saTeI0] 
SPINVUNWIWIOD sap dURSSIOID UOTIeST[IGIsuas 
RT : Jarpnoiysed ua DYH e] I9Ak UNWIWOD 9I9}UT p 
sanbyisads sautewop sap 9anoJ} suoae snoN 


suoijeiado §=6sa)_- Suep = ayqeinp 


juawaddojaaag ne adioied 795 24 


"XNd d1JU SUNOS sjutod sinarsnjd e A [I seu S]OUT]SIp s]nq 
Sap INS a1]UI0U0D as aUUSTULBIO anbeYD ‘dINIIS op BQeU Ud [eJOpe} JUIWIAUIJIANOS Np osuUeIS0Id 
a] Jajyoadsaz e ‘syutod saydnynw ap ins sosesua yuos as sjinb aosed epeuey adisn{ ap 9 99S np 
aq[inayajiod np sameuaysed sou daae Gs &[ op UONesed9id ap syuauNdop sou seed suOAR snou ‘IsUTY 


“‘sjanquaag Sauteuajsed sop ulsseq np uolsuedxa Pp saqt{iqissod sa] 110Aaqua 
XN ap urfe ‘ajqeinp justwoddoyaagp ap saispIeNg Say IMs [alIp}STUIWUIIJUT NeIS91 NP SarquIoU 
saline $3] 12 PPEUL?) XNLJUIWAUIOANOS SIdIAJAg Ja Sor[qnd xneaedy ‘afeuorjeu asuaja(] P| PUUIOD JNO} 
TeI9UZ INIYOI]JOS NP azajSTUILU 3] 19 QYD k] P][Nsuo suoae snou ‘¢Q0z 939, ap 32 sdurajutid np sinoo ny 


-99]10d aru & 19 aINBIIAUA Pp STO} P| B SJUAWABeBUA sap IT[quI9,p Ue ‘aouasy | 
ap sjauuonesado sadnois sap sgidne satiajUl SUOT}e}[NSUOD So1]Ne P NUS} SUOAL SNON ‘Saatje10d109 
SATIATION P SINg}das xn GCS P| Jo189]UI_pP UOSRJ aInayfiow P| J9ANO] ap UYe ‘mbrsayeqjs uoryeoyiueyd 
ap adnoi8 amou 9y[nsuoo suoak sno ‘sapuUR saureypord sap sinod ne Tdurosse p aqissod yrej9 
[nb a0 Ans saUIa}UT sUOISSNOSIp ap Ted B PUIWIUOD JUO ENT UOISTAPY PI ap ANA UI SUOTIEI[NSUOD SI] 


U1UaAD J B ajqvinp juawaddojaaap ap sploffa SOU LASIUOULIDY SUOAAap snou sjanbsaj 


' : ; : : 5 aja’ 
gaav sautpuazavd saj anb isu aisayvajs ajuasaid vy juaifiuvjd inb sjuvdiayavd sa] 1149p U01]Ias ajjay) 


SUOLJEI]NSUO) 


OL 


£002 NOISIAIY : JIGVUNG LNIWIddOISAIG 30 JTOILVYLS - VOVNVD TANNOTLD3YYOD JDIAYAS 


dsv‘f-FE4)S-ISO/IOS-ISO/FOOTE00Z/24d-18/09'I8198-Sqy MMM//:dHY “8 


(9S np saytsorid ya sueyd say ans yoddey 9] 110A ‘ajduraxa Jed) 
sauleyye p uoreogtueyd ap snssadoid 93] sIaAeJ] & S9]UIUINIOP JOS ‘UOTeIS9}UII PT J9 9IURS | 9YLINIS 
ey anb sya} ‘sjauuontpes sautuessoid sou ap jsednyd ej Guanbasuos seg ‘39}9[dw0d 9139 nd aq[a- 
-€U aida}el}s eB] SULp sautUeIBZ0OId $99 ap UOTJeIB9IUL | IsuTe ‘a[qeInp Juauaddojaagp np ana ap JuIod np 
SJULUdAaT]UOD sap UOTUAIUT J] B soMUTeIZOId sap dUapIOUT | OAgId ap sINsau Ua 9}9 sed sUOAR U snOU 
‘SIOJINOT, “QOS Np UOISSIW PJ & Ja JepURLE Ne spoUUOTIpes} xNeJUaWOUUOITAUA soUTUTeIZOId Say Ja189}UI 
Inod auuog He[quias UoTsed0 J ‘9189}eI}S 93}99 ap UOTJd9dU09 ap snssad0I1d Np JUaWadUSUTUIOD NY 


"SadINOSsal Sap UOTeSTIIIN J J algydsorpAy J 
suep sjofo1 say ‘o1gydsourje | suep sjofar say : xnedioutid sja{ns stosy ua sgdnoisai o1}9 yUaAned 
}Q19}UT_p suotysanb sap gaaJai 99 ap JURTNOSYP {NP sUejIOdUM $}I]OA $I] ‘YOOT UOIsIAayY ap Nad ne 
juate}9 nb suonsonb sautgut sap ay1e1} 496 a] anb stidosdde ajquuas jt quanbgsuod Jeg ‘suorjyes9do sas ap 
INjeU ky SULP IU YDS Np aJaypa J e NUIAINs sa. U JULIOdUMT JUaMIasULYD UNINe ‘~QQQZ Ue | sIndap ‘IsuTYy 


‘0007 ue | siIndap 
sayiorid Sou JolfIpow yrermmod mb [PJUIWIUUOITAUS joadse jeAnou unone JJIANOIIP SUOAP U SNON 


21}9-UdIq Np ja ata ap ayyenb ey ap uonesoyowey « 

. aymnb J ap uorjowold ey. 

——-- SaTRUOTLUIOJUT SUOTWSI[GO sou ap yDadsaI aq - 
SIUQ]SASOI9 SAP Ja SUIIPeULD Sap 9]URS P] 9p UOTDa}0Id eT 
SO][OINJEU SIdINOSSII SOU 9p dUTIgeinp ey - 


: WouUaIdWIOD Ja Juawausaanosora | ap apiny a] suep 
sagust{nos anb sayfa} JUaINaWap +) 2] ay1e.1) anb suonysanb saz ‘QQOz worsiaay nod sed 3] H1eI9,9 aI 


Dose 
suoijosado xnv sajuauijsad Juos inb ajqvanp juawaddojaagp ap suoisanb say puasduiod uo1jsas ajJa) 


1919}UL,p SuoLjsanb sap anayay 


£002 NOISIARY = JIGVYNG LNAW3ddO13ARG 3d STSSIVULS * VOVNV T3NNOILD9NNOD JDIANA 
y VJ ' LL JIIOGU JJLNGIS 


“(| aXoUUR ] B a}ST[ AUN TOA) SagtIeA Sz} JOS suOTJesgdo sad 
ap amped aj suep sastidamua spqLATIe Sa] ‘sNUalyp Sap UONUIJUT | k sourumersoid ya xneaing ‘NYOUOI 
‘SJQUUOTJIIIION SJUSWAssl[qe}? : NS SUUIOD PSTAIP 2.1}9 ynad 495 np suonessdo sap aquiesua7] 


“Ul 8£6 8ST I 
e WeAaa,s aadno90 atyjsadns ke] E007-Z007 UA °% € 9P anb snjd 1s9,U 3007-8661 epoliad Re] nod nagid 
uore]UaWne p xne} a] anb s1oje JUIMMaATJRITUBIS aasIaAUal 1S9,$ adedsa_p snjd radn590 e aduepud} 
31] ‘saqun sauuatoue sap JUaWade[dtas Np aANsaw kB Jo Inj Ne ‘saurumessoid xne 9}0ayJe a0edsa J 


dP JUdtass1o1IIv | ap Jd SOUNUILUOD safes ap AquUIOU Np UONRJUsWIsNe | ap ‘sa1gt[NB9I sapny[ad sap 
red sajnqjao sayjad sap yuautade[duias np Issne yeyNsas steuT ‘snUa}9p ap aAqWOU Np UOeJUasNe | ap 
JuaUratnas sed yrefNodap aU JUIUassTOIIOR 39%) “cUU €19 FZ | B cll €79 G68 ap JuRssed ‘0% K¢ ap p]USUISNe 
& 99S ay Jed aadno90 aje}0} a1oyysadns ek] ‘661 & O66T OP IeT][e sue MY ap aporsad ek] ap simod ny 


00091 ap said v yWeAa?.S €00Z-Z00T 9919I0X2 | OP 
sinoo ne s9Aojdura urayd sduray syuayeatnbe p a1quiou dT ‘a]NeUNWIUWOD P| SUP ddURT[I9AINS snos JuaTe}9 
Sa] [2 a1]Ud P NOP anb ss0TR “OG¢ ap }e}9 JUStWAssT]qe}9 Ua sayUenbuT[ap ap sIqUIOU aT ‘PZg ZB JURssed 
‘% GZ AP ANUILIP & 9}TATIDITJOO BT SULP IaTTIAAINS 9]J9qQI] Ud UT[NISeU oxas ap sJuenbuT[ap sp eIquoU 
31 19 ‘NOE ZI WoITAUA ek aJUapeoaid aguuR | anb awa I] WeIMIWap $919dIBdUT SIUTUOY,P [e}O} aIquIOU 
a] ‘apotsad 93399 ap sinoo ny *(saysorsd ya sueyd say ins ysoddey : -O07Z-€00Z Jo8png) Uorestfeydes 
Ud $]NOD SI] % OT }9 UdtjJoIU p 39 UOTeIDdO,P $}NOd Sa] % OE ‘SorTEeTeS Sa] 1ANOD (YOT ‘d aUeXIOS 
"[RIQP9] [IUUOT}IIIION IUIISAS J] INS JUSWIT[aNUUR SIe]JOP op pIeI][IW C‘] UOITAUS asUddap epeUeD IT 


"UONRIUIA PT Jd deIJNeYp J] ‘s]nos9 p sautaysds say ‘sapryos 
SJolPapP SIP UOTCUIWT]9 | ‘oJURINOD Nea] JUaUUIIdUIOD sayqruOdsIp sjarjuassa SadIAIas Sa] *(SUTjasuNod 
]9 JUIWASSILIZAIP “UOT}RINPE ‘PJURS IP SadTAIIS ‘UaWIIsO] ‘s]UdTA}QA ‘oINpIINOU) sanbrskyd 
-uou ja sanbisdyd sueyd say ins xne]UsWepUO] SUIOSag SINZ] JUAINsse Jo sNUd}9p ap souTe}UId sinaIsnyd 
UaIge st QuauranbidAy, ‘saurouoyne s9yAatda][09 sayjad ap ke JUITquIassaI Vg Np sia1ouaytuad saT 


sjuenbuljap sap 
9]e190S UOLYasULes Je UOLJeJdeped, e 


sjuenbuijap 
Sep dUe]L9AINS Jo Bbieyd ud asuid « 
JIS NG SNOLLVYIdO 


JIVN3d JILSNC 3d IWALSAS 


2828S 8828828822288 2288828882882 2282SSES82E 8888528829208 00 


anbijzewtjo Juawabueyd 
apie and » 

sjain})no sabesAed ap apied 
PUSIZALPOLG e] BP UOLJINpal « 
Sa]qeie Salle} ap ayed 
gues 

e] INS uoLjN}JOd ke] ap sjaya 
SeoInOssal ap apiad « 
YASIWINIW 

V SAHIYIHIIY NON S14444 


¢ SUOLJEUWEPUOD 
SajLeyneunwwod 
sunayen 
SAJLEINEUNWWOD 
$9]x9]U09 
Juewadueuy 
atbiaue 

saigiqew 


SJLNIVYLNOD 


SO}SIALPLI9I BP Nad 

sa}qeAojdwa sjuenbuyjap « 
aqund—as ua ja xLed 

Ua JURALA ‘aqsnf a}91D0S « 

YISIWIXVW 

V S3HIYIHIAY $1444 


INNFIGVNV) 3131905 


2]qe1np epeuey un suep 795 np ajoy 
e ANNI 


€002¢ NOISIAIY = Favuna LNIW3ddOTSAIG 4G FIDFLVYLS V2 ANNO] : 
: JIU SLUSLVG4 J TINNULIIAG A IJLAGIS 


‘€007-2007 DOS Np Juattapual a] Ins y1oddey */ 


“SQTDITYPA 0S I 
justuaatyeurtxordde ar0sua asin 996 a ‘suonesado sas ap apes 3] sued “aatjoe uoTendod 
P] 2189IUI9I JUOINe sj Nbsso] yuoradns90 syinb stoydura xne juaredgid say ja snuajgp sap yuatojdura 
mb ‘sadtAras sap NO UOIIN.SUOD eT ap ‘UOTedTIqey eT ap ‘QIN]NILISE | ap SaUTRUOP say Sup sastadanua 
Sap aofdxa ‘NYOUOD sfedde “99g np yetsads aotasas ap aurstueSs0 un ‘SUOTJET[LISUI Sds ap [¢ sue 


“xneuolsa1 xneaing burs ja euoreu neainqun . 
Jo ‘(SayeJUsUTAU IANS 
UOU SUOT}esTULBIO Sap dae gssed JeIWUOD UN. NYJaA Ud sag}ojdxa) UOTIsUeT) dp SUOSIRU G/T 
‘Q]JOUUOT}PUOd UOTeJ9q]] ap XNeainq [ZL « 
‘SoTTEINCUNUIUOD S[IUUOT]IIIION SAUDI /[ « 
‘sraiouaytuad 7G. 
No[dxa 9S a7 


‘JUS[OIA dUTTIO ne y10dde1 
Ua SNUIWIIP & epeUey) Ne d}ITPUTWITID ap xne} 9] ‘IWe] U_ “UOTeJaql] IMa] seide aumtIO sues ja aAtOnpoid 
dtd aUN Jouau e JUeIedgid sa] Ud Ja Jojdepeas as e sjuenburjap say Juepre ua Jue}0dwt ayos un anof 
DDS IT JyNOs ua yuatesnod gyagsuoy Ing] 9 gues Ng] anb stpue} Toyuaursne Jworesinod suarpeuey 
Sa] JUL]IaTJe SSaI]s 9p XNAAIU SI] ‘9]ULINOD ISOYP MUIAIP WAIP IWILID JJ IS 9191908 ks ap ayT]Iqeinp 
PT 39 SUAO}D Sap IA ap ayenb eT yUSWATROTIUSIS BUANTJUI epeURD Ne d}[EUTUITID ap xne} dT 


‘(Z anByy e] 0A) sanbrwo0u0990100s Ja sanbisAydorq 
saouanbgsuod sap JURA Sd}UTeIIUOD SOJUIIFFIP & Ide] IIe] HOP 49S a] ‘suoresado sas ap ajinpuod 
e] Jo UOISSTU es ap ayInsinod ey sue ‘aTeIDOS WOT JSUTAI INJ] Jo UOTJe}depess Ing] aonb rsure ‘soueT[IaAINs 
nay JURINsse Ua Ja syuenburap say ad1eYo Us yURUaId Ud ‘9YIND9s Ud ja xTed Ua WA IND aysnf 9}91D0s auN_p 
UdTJUTCU NE INGIIJUOD stUSsTURBIO] “UIEUINY Jo aTeYLANIgS “IMs “O[GeUUOSTE 9[9.1UOD UN k JUR}auUINOS 
Sa] Ud JNO} ‘stoy sap xnanjdadsaI sudo} sap JtUaAap ke UOstid ap snjd no sue xnap ek sguuTepuod 
syuenburap say JUatHAAT}Oe JULpTe Ud Ja JURIBEINOIUA Ud 9191908 PJ ap UOIIa}0Id PT B INGIN}UOI DOS A] 


‘NID eB] ap uauexa p 
9UI9]XA PUTO’) 3] 19 YD PI axjW0o o1jqnd np sayureyd sap uorsstwM0) ve] ‘auuoNde1I09 najgnbua | 
ap neaing aj “(SYyDS) ayinogs op JUaWaUSIasUaI NP UaIpeUed IdTAII¢ 9] ‘(DIND) Se[[PUUOLIpuod 
SUOTILIAQI] Sap I[EUOTLU UOISsTUIUIO? k] (JY) epeuey np efeAOI atsowJepuay e] Issne puaiduros 
mb Jeisu98 anayoyJos np ap[inayajsod np arsed yrey awistues107 ‘slatouaytuad sap ja xneunqiy 
sap ‘s]uaua]8az Ja sto] $20 ap uoTJeoT[dde p satustuLBIO sap ‘S]UIUIa[B9I Sap 32 SIO] Sop puardurod auUaysAs 
2) ‘epeuey np ayeuad aonsn{ ap auaysds np ajuersaqut arysed yey epeULD Np [PUUONIIIIOI II1A195 9] 


‘SAJLALJID SOU Ap Ja UOLDSIUDS.LO J4J0U ap AUINSAd un IUAA{UAd UOLJIAS ajuasa.d DT 


JBUUOL}IAIOI BIAS NP ]YOJd 


Z NOISIASY > FIGVUNG LNIW3IddOTSATG 3G AINIIVYLS - VAVNV) TANNOLLIFYNOD JDIAYSS 


‘UOTININSUO) k] ap Ja SIO] Sap N}JaA Ua sNO} ap $aqJaqI] Sap Jd SHOIp sap yedsa a] suep so1\snf ap auraysds 
np aypenredun | 1a ayoRoyJa | “PU[IqGIssaoov J INS SP}AI}Ie SIs oxXk d19]STUTU ID “sIO] Sap asnanjdadsaI 
J9 aysn{ 919190s auN epeuR) np arey Inod yuejodum aos UN JUaNYp 991}sN{ e] 9p 31a ]STUTUT 9] ‘SUTQUI 9q 


“SOHTAT}ATOO 
SP UlIS NE UOISIYOO L] 9P UOTRIIO P| & ITESSIIPU JUIUIZ]D UN ‘9}TAT}IAT[OO B] 9p d[quasua | JURSSOI9IUT 
suorsanb ud sayjanprarpul suonednsoogid say Jausojsue Inod saovoyyja snd snssaoo1d sap 1adojdura p 
satqudaosns uos sat[yq “XNeIDOS sauta{qosd Say }9 a}TEUTLULID PY a1]U Udt] a] aIpUsIdurOD xnartu yUITquIIS 
sa}oeded ja surosaq saidoid simay yuassteuuod Inb $9}1AT}aT]OO sa] ‘aH[CUTWTIO ey] op sasned xne 
ronbeye s nod sarressadgu sayfan}da]Jayul Jo SouTeLUNY ‘Sa1gIOULUT] SdOINOSSaI SI] JOANOI} & }9 9INIIS 


€00¢ NOISIAZY - JIGVYNG LNIWIddO1SARG 3G ATNILVYLS - YAWN) TANNOTIQIENAD 


A ‘PII *9 
. [MAIY'98EZZ JOP/TOOTHU/smau/4f/09'98-ao1snl-vpouvay/:diy 
€007 exquiaydas : au1I9 np uoTUaAgid eT J aTeyNeUNIUIOD PIANIYs P| AMS apeuoTeU atsayeNs “c 


FREER Ree eee eee eee e eee eee et ee Hees EEE se ese eseeeeeeEeeeeeeEteeessesseseeere 


19 9JOIYS op A1QHEUT U2 SUTOSaq SINI] JOUTULIaI9p & SPILAT]D9T]O9 $3] JUKpTe Ua JarUassa ayoz UN anol JAD 
ey ‘a[qeinp juauraddojaagp np urjd aj ng ‘apeuorjeu aiBajesyg ve] ap saqoud Sap 39 S}1}Da[go sap ayutaye J 
B JUaNgI1}UOd ayfinajayiod np saurstues10 saryne say ‘anbryqnd 9y1mn99s ap jeuoneu suiuresSord ap 
$}adse sa] sNO} Ans s[lasuOd sap WUINOJ My Jo [eJ9UAs INdyoI[Os ay amndde 99 ¢ np azaysturw a] ajeuoreu 
PHINIPS ap d1QIJEW Ud epeULD Np JUaWaUJIANOD np sauuresB0Id ja sanbiyrod say arAna ud aryaw 
9p J9 J9UUOPIOOD ap ‘Jayrueyd ap aypiqesuodsai ey] ve epeuey np [er9UI InayOT]]OS Np a[Inajaj10d aT 


‘SONBOIP ap NO Joos]e Pp UoLJeWWOSUOD e[ Jo Sa]UAaIDIJap soqeyuared 
sanbryead say ‘onbrsojoypsd ya anbisdyd aouajora ey aurt09 ‘suas sap sata sa] suep anbstz ap SINI}IVJ 
so] Jonugie e SUN}sap sauureIsod sap IYO e Jape Inod “)qNS &| ap aiped a] suep ‘saguue saureydord 
arjenb sap sinoo ne anoyye JuawauJaanos aj anb sxe]jop ap suorpiuu ¢ 7 say JUoIdSeyIed as ayLINI98 PTR a1] 
yepueuT UN JuRAk sata]STUTU Sa] “S[PUTUITID syuauta}JOduI0d sap sapuoyord sasned sa] JOUTUNTTD B JUaSTA 
UONSTUNIIA PJ J2 PUTEUTWTID ey aIIMp9l & spUTSap satUTeIBOId say Ja sanbryTTod say Gow un ug "[e1ID0s 
juautaddojaagp np sadioutid sa] ins asodaz (J gNS) awit49 np uoijuadgad v] Ans ajvuolsvU a18aqvAIS eT 


‘SaleUa}ied Sou JUOS saduase Jd Sd19}STUTU Samne say ‘epeuL’) aJauUadoj) 
J9 UOTeIZTUIW] Nb Isure speuoreu asuajaq ey “epeuey a1}sn{ “YH ey ‘epeuey np [es9Uas IMayOITJOS 
3] ‘ODS 2] PUIUIOD ‘aIPIO | ap UsTJUTeUT Ne Ja Io] ke] ap Jadsar ne JUaNgI1jUOD epee’) Np JUaMIaUIOANOs 
NP Ulas ne saduase Ja sasastuTW sInatsnyd ‘owW1ID a] aIjequIOD ap UY *,lojdway ja preaes} 2] 
“UOTJLINP| J ‘XNLIIOS SIdIAJS SI] ‘JUS L] JURNJOUT ‘9}9190S PT IP $1N9}99$ $3] SNO} B JUIPUI}9,$ a}PEUTUITID 
RB] Ip suorssndiad91 say] ‘pylInd9s ua sed juajuas as au souuOsiad say anb jrez aj anb tsure ‘sozjne 
SdP 19 SOWITJOIA SOP DULIJJNOS k] Ip Ja INgTNop ej ap sayqeyueNb wou synod say JaUUOTUIU sues }so 
1997) .aytatjonpod ap o}Jod ke] SUIUIOD dU19} BUOT & $NOD sap d}dtUIOd JUAIT] UO J IS ‘SIeTJOP ap SpARI]ITW OF 
B MMNeAP }S9 EPeULD NL J}[CUTUITIO LY Ip JONUUL JNOD JT “SoJQ}STUTUT SazjNe SUTe}I99 ap Sa[OI XNe UOT}EIAI 
Ud IOI d1}0U JURPIeSaI Ua GS 93399 sUeP UOTJeOIUeTd ap UOZIIOY IIJOU IISILIZ,p 9}U9} SUOAR SNON 


‘uoTesaqy] Ina] saide yuouararNon sed ‘a[qeinp yuouraddoyaagp ne Janqi1jU09 ap spytunj1oddo 
sap syuenbuljap xne yuaryo uonejdepeas op sowurersoid sou 39 xnejueuauUOrAUa s}oedu 
sap uajioduro9 sanbisdyd suoneyjeysut sou e soyuarsyut suonesgdo say ‘saumureis01d ap 9jatieA oun 
a19do Ja SUOTIETTEISUT SASIOATP 2198 VS AT ‘PITIATIDATIOD B| Sup Ja s1aIUayTUPd say sup saUMeIdOId sap 
JULIO NJ] Ud SIO] sap xnanyadsai suadoy anb yu} Ua a]eID0s UOI]JasUIPI Ing] Ja UOIJe}depegs Ing] ANs 
SaqTATIIe SOU SUOXe snoU Ja a[eI9p9} au[Iqesuodsar snos sjuenburjap sap apres | ap Ja aBseyp ua astid 
e] ap suodnos0 snou snou “995 ny ‘suoresado sas ap J9 JepuURUL UOs ap UOI}IUO] Ua spyIOLId sas INIqQeI9 
B MNUTJUOD V9 2] ‘2[eq0]3 UOTSIA a[[a} aUN,p aJUa}e | SUR ‘ayqeinp yuautaddoyaagp np aatqoedsiad 
e] UOJas sue (7 SULP eas epeUey a] anb ad ap ajeqoys UOISIA oUN IN[GeI9  JUaWa[[anjoe a|ffears) 
(STH) a[qeinp Juauaddozaagp ap saiB9yv1}s $9] ANS Jal \STUTLIIIUT NeaspYy a] “STUBPP JWowlosLe]> 
sed JUOs ou [eJap9} JUaUIaUJeANOs np [eqo[s auruessosd ne JonglUOD jUaTeIAIp SaIda}eI}S SIs 
Juop uodey ey anb tsure Janof yop azaystutur anbeyp anb ajo. a7] “xnesppaj SarQISTUTUT sof SNO} B UNUILUOD 
‘giqeinp juauraddojaagp np aurewop a] suep saytsorsd ap ayquiasua un sed yuawajuasgid e Au I] 

1VuI0Id LNIWINYIANOS NV NOLLWALIS V1 


‘uorssedurod e] asTIOAej Ja JUaUasstnoueds | ayrpioey Ind souvuaysedde p yuawimuas un JUa}uassal 
}2 aYLIND9S Ud JUOS suas s2q aTjonbe] suep 9}9190s JUN S19A JONOAY P JoulJod snou xnejUsuepUo} suTOsaq 


[MALY MO]SDLU/a.NJOU UDLUNY/SUaLUNIOp/ML0I/sUsNgag/s4ayIvay/sn aul ZT Y'ZT posmmm/:diay 
C007 axquuardas ‘My MM AP ALL “« spaau jo Aysrerary sMo[seP » ap gdepy “F 

UiJY'I0} | CVpuasDy/Yys1sua/ [Zopuasy/sjuaunsop/aapisns/psa/S10 un MmM//:d)gY 
"E007 arquiaydag MMM IZ UONDY “€ 


(quawebo] ‘nea ‘einjuunou) 
ASV 30 SANDIDOTOISAHd SNIOSI9 


(xied “9}UND9s) 
_LTUNI3S 30 SNIOSI9 


(anbiboyoysAsd uoijejnwiys) 
IOS 4d 
NOILVSITVNLOV.G SNIOSI9 


NOISSVdWO) 


SULELUNY SULOSag Sap alyriesaLy 
T JuNOI4 


Sap aqUOoUal eT ’,(] aINBy ey] ITOA) sgaaqa snjd sutosag sap Ja]quIOD ap esoUIad nb sypiqeys ey eITUINOY 
XNLJUIWLPUO} SUIOSIG SOU ap UOTJIVJsT}eS | aNb }s9 UVOIIUTJSp 3}}99 ap UOTJeSI]IyN 91}0U pUa}-snos 
mb asayjoddy J ‘Jounjeu jeydes a1j0u sAnedde sues sayjainjyeu sdoINOssal SOU dP $}QIPJUT SIP IJATA & 
yneamnbg tnb ao — snou saide yuorpuata tnb xnao nod ja sno} snou Inod yuowUesyns ye ua A [Nb snod 
IBIIUI P Jd SAILUI IP UOTJLUUOSUOD dp XNLIATU SOU Ia]OIJUOD ap }Sa aITe} SUOASP snou onb uoNe}depe 
sigiuaid ey anb ‘spreryrut ‘9 say aydoidde surewny uorejndod ey onb sioye ‘my pinof{ne suojejsuos 
SNON ‘9}X9}U09 99 sURp JUatUaddoyaagp a] JUIUII}IeXd JSa Nb ao Ans Ja ‘« aJqeinp yuaWaddoyaagp » a] suep 
« JaINP » 98Uad ysa Inb 39 Ins snsuasuOd ap sed sino{no} v AU [I ‘SUOISsNISIp ap apats UN UOITAUA saidy 


“Sa]JaINJeU SIdINOSSaI SOU dp Jd SJUSWIUUOITAUD SOU ap 
uorjeatasaid ey ap anb JQ njd UoTeAsasUod ke] ap 3}x9jU0d a] suep yuauaddojaagp 9] ANS axe 1S9‘766] AP 
II], LP] 9P JOUIWOS 9] JULINP a1ogeia JUsWaTeUTSIIO URyd UN ‘]Z WOW *, [7 UOT IY,p uoTestyea. e] Inod 
SUOTINIOS Sap Jd ALAND Uo asTU ap 9IqID ued uN ‘s]qeinp uauaddojaagp a] Ns UOTJeIePep oun siIMpold 
ap stuliad ev ‘Sinqsauueyof e nua} ‘ajqeinp yuawaddojaagp 2] ANs [eIPUOU JaLUUOS 2] ‘prey snqd sue xIq 
‘UaUTaUgAg Je yuatedionsed nb shed yg] ap snjd ap wou ne urewmny yuautaddoyaaap np unurUOD yng UN 


€002 NOISIAJY : FIGVUNG LNIWIddOT9AIG 30 IIDILWY NN 


STULOUOD | }2 JUSWISUUOITAUA J INS aeUOIeU apuol a]qQR], ‘xnediorMU 
J2 xneI0] s110Anod sap UOHUAUT] k apy : suleqin saqjuad sap ajqeinp juswaddojaagp 277661 “YL Purjasoy ° 


SUWUOD a[qvInp juataddopaagp aj a}daqce & (a1IQ], BI AP JOUWOS ap WOU aj snos anUUOD Issne) osoue{ 
2p OY ® (ANNO) 7661 ap Jauaddojaagp 2] 39 JUaWaUUOMAUA J INS satu sUONRN sap a0UAIg}UO) ey] 


‘(¢9d) 93neaq ks a3N0} suep amjeu e] ap UoTda}0I1d 

e] Nea | ap ja Ie | ap gjaind ke] ‘Tos ua sur] sap aUIUIOD 9JURS eB] J9 UoT}eoNp9 J satfaq ‘sonbrurouosg 
UOU Sa[qelseA Sap J9189}UI WOP a1}9-UaIq Np ja sulosaq sap onbijeurgjqoid ey — aiyjiqeing . 

‘(¢¢ ‘d) syueuNy] ap suonestdse jo suIOsaq xne 

spuodas xnatw ap yueyaUrJed ITUAA k& 39 JUasgsd JarUa}od 9] JUZIIOJUSI Jo ISNITUOWIeY IIQIUeW ap 

JUOJ 98 sPSUUOTININsSUI sJusUTaSULYp say ja sonbruyoe} sap UONLJUSLO | ‘SJUIWISSSaAul Sap UOTIIIIP 
RI ‘sadInossal sap UOTeyO]dxe J janba] suep uoNeULIOJsuLT] ap snssado1g — ajqeanp yuswieddojaagq .- 

‘(7S °d) (ata ap 

aujenb arnayfiau aun e JUIWSWTII39] JUaIIdse suas say ‘sjatjUassa suIOSaq $29 ap Rfap-ne ‘Jo JoyfIeaes} 

AP ‘IIIA 9S ap 1980] as ap ‘TIINOU as ap dUUWIOD sjarjUassa suTOsaq) UTeUNY d1}9 | op suonesidse 


v 


}9 SUIOSAq SaJ aTeIsTJes B a}stsuOD yUaWIaddojaagp Np 41}9a/qo Jedioursd a7] - yuautaddojaasq - 


: UOP ‘SN0] B ALUaAD adJON SURP SUOTTUTJp Sazyne p 
JUIWI]e39 IANOIaI UC *« SIN] XNv sIpuodas ap sainqnj suoTJeI9UEs Sap ayoeded ey amJauIOIdUWIOD 
sues Juasgid np sutosoq xne puodgs mnb jyuawaddojaagp un jsa » ajqeinp Juautaddoyjaagp 92] 
anb prerepap A uo {/ 6] Ua ‘sN0} V Auadv adjon 1oddes UOs at{qnd & pueypuNIg WOTsstUIUIO eT “0007 
aguue | ap sjsed e pesanbydde s nb 9w119) Suoy & ayeJUIWIIUUOIAUD 9139}eI]$ JUN JdIOGRIP.,P Jo a[quinp 
yuswaddojaaap np aunwiwo0d uoTsuaysidwoo uN & JOATIIe Ud WeIINOd d[eIpuOW ajneUNWWOD P| 
JUIUIUIOD JOUTUeXO p pueppuNg Ware] OID ou] e PpULLIAP JUO satUA SUOTIEN $2] HANND P| Saidy 


[BIDS JUIWIIPUOFfJo J & JUSTLIIUIUI JOURSSIOID P| B S9PUUT] Sa] Janbay suep apuoUT uN yre}9 
yeIyos nb uornjos aryne J 19 IMOf J] JOA B JOUSUTUIOD B — 13919 B JamIdse sno} SUOLIAap snou anb 9}9190s 
aun — ajqeinp a19tv0s ek] ap }daouod aq ‘suoTjes9UAs Say ax]UA gUINb9 | 19 arA ap auyenb e] Ans saaxe 919 JUO 
SUOISSNSIP Saq WOYYIOIS & NUD} (HANNO) UleUNY JUStMIUUOITAUD J Ins SatUA) SUOTIRN Sop 2UI1ZJUOD 
R] ap S10] ‘ZZ6] U_ ‘stojred yrejadde J uo autos Juauaddojaagporg no ‘ayqeinp yusuraddoyaagp 9] 
IMs [eIPUOUT Jeggp UN syouapap kv INb JUaWaUaAg J SUTLIOD ag}TO JUAANOS JSa adUAIZJUOD aya) ‘a1Qydso1q 
E] AP UOLAIISUOD kT Jd I[AUVOTJeI VONRSTTIN | INS a[PUOTJEUIOJUT FUAI9JUO) UN ‘gg6] Us NUd} e 
(QOSANA) axNIINd eT 9 adU19I19s PT ‘UoINp9 J Inod satu sUOTEN sap UORsTULBIC | ‘[eIPUoU UeId 9] INS 


 JURAINS UOTRIIUDS PI 

@ JORJUT STUISURI} 2139 WeIAap [edioursd a] anb stew ‘jamnyeu [eyded a] Ins s}g19}U! xne HOIp & uol}e19U93 
anbeyp anb yreusi[nos epee’) Np UOT}PAIaSUOD ap UOTSSTUNOD PI ‘G16 ] UY epeULD NP 389] 9P $I910J So] 
suep saiqie spuei3 ap ajJod eR] yesojdap preuoqoew "y UYof ansturu Jattuoid 3] ‘2981 Sap ‘epeuey ny 
TWIGNOW JLX4LNO) 


‘a/QuAnp 219190 dun p amu ua ASI Bi DV sasinbas SaIUuasixa 


xnv aspuodgs anod )9§ np npuayyw jsa inb a9 Ja ajquanp juawaddojaagp np aaioysiy,j 191 suonbydxa sno 


99S Ne e}qesnp 
juawWaddojaAap 3] apusidwo) 


NOISIASY * JIGVUNG LNIW3ddOISAIG 30 FIOILVYLS - VOVNVD JANNOILISYYO) JDIAYAS 


‘PMEIQ ‘NONZ SAUUaIPeUL’?) Saj 9 SUaIPeEURD sa] Inod syeyNs91 saq ‘OOOT “PPeULD Np JOsZAL, NP [lesuo) *] 


‘ajqeinp juautaddojaagp ne suornqiyju0d sajuey10du p 
Ud JUOIINpe as ‘snduTeAUOD sauTtOs snou ‘nb syeyNs9I Sz] AIPUI}e, Pp ULJe sasoyp say ate} suoAoAgsd 
SOU JUOp ayuasayjIp uodey ey op anb augur ap ‘sagridosdde yuos nb suonesorpwe sap ‘puUOTIIUOY 
uatq e Inb a9 ap suosJaynosIp snou ‘uaarns Inb sased sa] sued *s}JOJJo sou Ins jUTOd ne asTU aT[aAnou 
aun nb tsure saisoid sap agi[iejep UoTenyeag apuodas a1joUu ajuasaid “CQQz UorsIAgy ‘JUaUNIOP 9) 


‘SQINSOU $JE][NSI Sap dIpulaye p uaesjouJod 
mnb s}uaurasueyo sap d1Ana ud a1jjow enb swew ap saizoid 3] Jomnsow k 9}[NIJIp e] ap sino{no} 
sUOTA snou anb 9}e}su0d sUOAR SnoU GUauNDOp Juasgid a] suep seq snjd gyndstp anb yay, ‘ajqio anbeyo 
e aidosd uonoe p ued un p opie e 1jdurosor p jueysodumt 139 [1 nb suotA019 snou anb xneuy s}ey[ns9I 
xnedioutid say s1aA UOTJUI}e 31}0U JOIN] d 91}UIIUOD sUOAR SNOU Ja 9xIJ SUOTAR sNoU anb salqid ap a1quIoU 
3] JINpat SUOAR sNoU ‘YO UOIsiAay SU ‘(ODT Ud 29}2[dUUIOD JNJ DDS NP CS Pe] Ap UOIsTAgI agtWaId eT 


‘siid suorae snou onb xneiguas sJUsWIaseSUd Sd] $NO} IdAP Jo}eI} B dY]NIYJIP 
e] ap anb tsure saisoid 9] Jomnsouwi nod a9ytuny] 9y9eded aun suorAe snou anb 33e}su0d pie} snyd suoae 
snoy ‘sonbyoads xneury syeyns9i say Ins anb uonsas ap s9jtatjoe say Ins JueIne yWeIJod /661 AAS eT 


‘Q0UdBP Jd 919} STUTUT 
anbeyp ap saisoid say Jay1Iga ap ue 9919 Inj (CAD) aqeInp yuauraddoyaagp ne jo JUauIaUUOIIAUD J 
R ATISSIWIUIO) ap a}sod a] ’ JUaapIeg Ne a}dW0d sIPUAI Ud jd SJeINS9I Sa] JoINSaU Ne] [I ‘sauuaipouy) 
$a] Ja sualpvuvy sa] nod sjvynsas sag Z{NYYUI JOsZIL, Np [lasuoy np JuauINdop a] Iaae p10d9K 
Ug ‘JUaWaUsaAnosoga | ap apIny J{NIWUI yuaUINDOp I] sup Gs auN Jaredgid JUSWIUIOD ANs sUOTIN.YSUT 
sap gijqnd e epeuey np jUaWoUJAANO8 2] G66] UY ‘s]UsUIaseBuUA sing] ap JoyJINboe,|s JUOA s|I JUSUTUTOD 
}2 I[dwos.¥,p uoTUajUT] UO s{I.nb 99 yuaats99p mnb (qqs) aqvinp yuautaddoyaagap ap sarsajers 
sap Jarfqnd ap toy ey zed sinbas Jusiny sgusisap saduase jd SdIQ}SIUIU SIT “G66 Ud datjIpow anb 
3]]o} [V42UAS ANayvIYfLI9A a] ANS 10 RE] SuUeP YsseYUA ny Janbey ‘qq Np uoTBIyIUETd eT e JNeITeI epeuLD Np 
JUIUISUIIANOS Np [eB9] a1Ped J] SNOS 9TIIUT JNJ IYOILUIAP aTJaANou 2}}9)) ‘(66 | SAPUUR Sap ngap ne adeyd 
Ua STU }eAe [I,Nb yustaUUOIAUD | ap UOT]sa8 ap saumUeIB0Id sap injsed eB (qq) a[qeanp yuautaddoyaaap 
J] SI9A SYIIVUIYP VS JUIW][IUIIOJ BSUIWIWIOD (DS) EpeULD NP JaUUOT}IIIIOI IdIAJIg 2] ‘2661 UT 


U1Uad Y saguuD say anod viauidsut 
snou ayjanbvy ‘a18aj.4Js a}1a9 ap Uo1yvivda.sd v] sUBp atains suoav snou anb aysivwap vj 191 suonbydxa snon 


UOLJINpPOI UT 


rhe - 
Te 
| LR 
wy, 
7 ‘ 


” 


-— 
Pd 


me! 


Cat 


eT, 


Yr 
= 
a 


er - 


J : a 
Pa : Fan ti) Py 


M igils  2* 


eee 


ptege.! 


be 
FO ei 3 
4 


ae 


| 


RP esas op 117) 
es . 
$ ne J 
od Uyeinehing 
OE chat 
a | 


a ‘ 
ae Pera Aw 
- yet: Vins aelt LaIG 
Tiga 


NO IGVYENG LNIWIddOIZATG 3G FTOFLVYLS - VOVNVD TANNOILDSNYOD JDIANSS 
LG OCH ORCROLLOECEC LOUD enue er er PTT Cater wht ie let Cora Cec OPO ce Caron Cur Nitty OsOnU) Ui TS OROBO Os ODuiC cette ct CeO) Or) OS8G anbiuyse} 3}0N 
PC Se 6 [6:7 @ 16@ el Be) 0) O80. Ge: 10. 6.0) 6a! a) OOo) (O16) One 0. 0/6). 0 50188. 8. Oe Oe) B16. 00) 8) 70) A s8) (en O16) One Or C116. aS np SOTIALPIY s 1b OXIUUV 
OK 6! 1G) (6 (6! “OS, 6) 'O. 1@ 8) OO bnie), 01.6) 0:16) 8) 6:18, 10) © OO) 6! 6) 10.616, 1010 OO) 8, (8h) Oe Oe le. 8.8 6 Ol ere ee 108). 6. > (656) 8) 8 te 18 16 sod woo op UOdLJLPPoy 
6I SL Te CACO cere OI MONO GER NCLORO. OMA OOM OahkO DUOMO JO OOO oO OOD OO OD OP OO.c0 DO tO 6 uor}oR p sued 
9] DOL On CHORES ch DRY OLDIE: OO LONG. OOO OO CACO GU. CLO DG Gb OGIO Do Cte (004) sayqio Fy sytjoal(qo ‘sing 
9] Git AO OG thitkO OOO OUD OES OA OOOO OOOO OU COO OO DOO OOOO OOOO GU GUeR ODO Ob OOO G G sasayjodAy 
9] sirelled ouelcelcclisiceiceliel siielisi siisirelieinsite oileliciie (oitslieifelete/ieiteiiel snatialelleslrsieueyciistlolion silo tsienel elelenoneite sduia} 3] suep saatpoadsiag 
9] sisi en eek sich cinetiede’ Saisie eenteaictiel ney ee een ous bonomencnelel (el eieneneitot onic holisMel oft eMeticd ciel diet se ien eur ien ener mea meron cn UOISIA dTJON 
QI 6. fe: jeer 6. @' 8 ae 8 8a & 18:8 eo &, ee 8 ow 8 ef enie! eo: ae (ele) @ (sie ]@! 1¢ Ke. celle 6 (60 (e106) © 6 Me 1:6! (66,0: 0. 10) 0) 10) G10: 10) (0191 © © SjuUawebebus SON 
I I st wise! vite! “olWel-s) "oll s\a\ wiiotliat le Nantel siteu a ial /evelistielis) clei citeliolie/ aitsiale, Tele Nelkelieleiier else] stfelislielleletiesuleilslisit>a site sais0id sap uonjenyeaq 
I I esis isiigheielre iniesite ite Metiel oitaltstcelictivit =i eltelieWelts neliviededs tas LsivaiteWeille/elaileltsiedohtataliet ch cteitettel vleliel aie quapgoai1d 3189}e.1]S d1]0N 
Il CO) O48. @) Oe) PIS) Cae LORS (Oye (O00) 68) Oe Le) (Oi O.Fe) OR, 180 6 Oe WFO 461 Oe. 6) 0,1 8> 8) Oe @ GF:80 8) LG. 8 16) ee) Oe ee 0002 UOILSIADY 3p uoljyenjeAJ 
Ol OO MOS 0 VO Os OG) 8) “Ol 0 8) 6) (0) 18.8 mB 0) 16" <6, 6. 18) 16) 0.0110) Oe OO) 1) Gy Gh (@ (O)-@, (6,00 18:0 O ea 8h On. 6 re eee & 0] O 18 Be 16) 6.6) .$) 0118) 0 a6 SUOLIeR|NSUO) 
6 © © © be 8 6 6 6 6 6. 6 @ 6 6 8 6 4 0 6 4 0 6 6 8 6 8 6 ee 6 © 01.8 0 6 © © © 8 8 et 6 6 6. 8 6 6 6 fe! 8 0 6 6 © JoJo UL p suolysanb sop 9A2]94 
9 Sve! we, aya ee: ee 6 0'O Oe! 6 Sat 18) eee o) 9) °e) 10) eh Ste 10) OO 168 07a. 611% 18) 8 Be) Sie 61 6/6) Oe (67 be ene (6 JSUUOLIIIIUOD DILAIIS np }YO1d 
b OxOeD OO Ca) Cachinro: dard th wt Uo. chtL.c Obiun. fer ooo Gentes GO cbs OOo G 0 O6 [edapay jUdWIOUIOAN03 ne uorjenyIs eT 
Z slonoMnleninl’aks)ejcemeWelelejisilslierlenciloh east oisiehsicne elielhelkelie/ islets: elke: cn cueieneiremeucienetensn meted che ver onen cect sutsMan alte [eIpuow 3)X9]U0’) 
Z a RemalkereMencel (se ustsiie) cits oleue letter etsitedial.chvtvicarneliel skeneatete (lek eie IS ne a}qeinp jUawWaddojaAap 3] aupuadwo) 
if 29 OG we 8 6 WHS SO) O00 NE. 6. (Ge) eb Sw Be ew 50) 8, (00) 01 10)-6 (Oa Ole 0. ye) 8) 0: ae) (e. (o) 6066-6, @-08! (0) @, @) O10) 16) 101.6) Lem: G06" a 8) a8) O28) 6) elle lene: UOLIINPOIAUT 
TI 2:19) 0) @) (0) 8) (e) see) be) ee) 0] eB) 0116) /6(4e 4/ 0) 0, 0 1e: :0) 8) ,a\(e) ‘6, 10): 10! .0).0) 6, .6, 6, @ 0) sia) @ lee ce e)\s) 6) 's ie le suse 6) 6) ws) es) wlfeejeliere) (ale els) «irae @ OILELUWOS 
I S SOS S8)6 CFSE) O00 e 6 le ie 10'S. 8 Ae el Lem eee & ere ella. ee) 8.08) ee) Sete: @) eis Ye Lele ).e) @ 16) 16) eee ei Sikes, eee: DILESSLUILUO’) e} 3p abessay 


SOdIJEW Sap age] 


. 


-~ 


een awe 


eed 


ww’ 
® a ——_ - 
Pe | oa 
‘ 7 
ams 
»* mw 
4 
' ve q 7 
Sy ee | o, 
f 
' 
Sou as 
i Yr 
toy ' 
: 
e 
ir oe 
[are 
sco 
a a 
oy Ty ’ 
a >, t 
ro PL 


“ty He dx 


pee j 


ot ae : aye 


‘ ” 


ee ee 


LL 


JAIG 3G FTOILVYLS - VOWNVD TANNOILDIYYOD JDIAYSS 


‘JUIWIapUaI 31]0U JIIONIWe P SUOSE] Sa] INS SUOISTIAp Sap spud ap aINsaUll Ud agp Ue ‘saguUOpP 
sou Jandrueur ap ja aste1}xa_p ‘IaUsIsuOD ap JuOIaWIEd snou nb saguUOp sap UON|sa3 ap sautaisds 
sap aoeyd Ua ar}JalLl ap SUOIANUTIUOD SNON “saINsoUT 9339 yUaAned nb s41499/go sap Istoyd JUaUasNaUsIOS 
suoae snou onbsind ‘ajduris elas JUaWapUa 91}JOU ap dINSIUI P| ‘SdPXIJ S9fqID sap auNIeYD INog 


‘(snssao0id np UoIstAgi P| 
Jd SUOTIL][L}SUT Sap NVIATU & ISTUU PT S9AT}IIIIO SaInsow ap uoTeot]dde | ‘uoneydepe | Juowadinbg J ap 
justuaoeduras 3] red Quowurejou QuossuINsel as nb) syuaUIasULYO Sop BAND Ud d1]J9W Ja aduRYIAI ap 
SUOIJNJOS SdpP J9ANO} ‘Aseq ap saguuOp sou JasIogdd yoagid Uo “UOT]de Pp suRtd $99 ap aIpPed a] su “sINq 
SOU dIpula}e p ayjauJed snou uatesaap ‘suosgdsa snou ‘tnb uoroe p sueyd sap a1oqeya suOAR SHON 


‘JUITUIUUOITAUD J & SNUdJIP SIP UOTRSTTIGISUaS PR] 19 SAPT[OS sJoydap Sap UOTJONpel 
R] ‘NLI P UOTJLUIWOSUOD FT Ip UOTJINpal kJ ‘sagsn xned P SayInj Say jd sjolor Sa] ‘SaIQIUII} $9ILATOV 
say Jed syinpoud sjuanpja soy ‘sauTUTeJUOD says sap JuRUdAOId UOTRIATXT] ap synpord say Ja JUWATJassInI 
ap xnea saz ‘s[R[OA sanbruesio sasodwiod ap ja 9302% p SapAxXO P ‘aU0GIed ap apAXOIp ap suOIssTUrS 
So] : sJURAINS sjafns sap JUd}TeI} (JN Ied STOI} HOS) SsaTqId JNaN{ “SaTJaIN}eU SadINOssai $3] J9AIJSUOD Ja 
agydsorpAy J ‘asaydsoune J 1989} 01d : xneyUIWIaUUOITAUD $}nq stoJ} WNsInod 9g aI] ‘E007 WorsIAay INog 


“SJIJLOIIUSIS sJUsUasULYO op NuUOD sed JUOU DDS Np 
SHAK Sap UOT Iedad e] Jd oINJeU PJ Jd ‘d1AIAS a] JURSsT3aI onbrprinf ya onbiseyens srped ne 9}10dde 
a} &U Inafew JUaWEsUeYD UNONYy ‘g[eUsIS 949 & U Inafeur sua ;qoid neaanou UNone ‘ajeuoTeU No seqoys 
2T[2422,] ¥ 0007 sindap sasueyour spinowap jowanbyesd Juos ey yey 9S ag] sjanbxne sawiayqoid say 


£002 NOISIAZY = JIGVYNG LNIWSddOTZARG 3G FTOIAVYLS - WOVNY 


‘9[[PUUOTIpUOS UONeIIqT] ap xneaing sap 
}2 S[PUUOT}IIIIOD sJUIWasst[qe}9 Sap 2198 JOS a] JepUeUT UOS Uatq & JBUIUT ap UY ‘ayeID0s UOTJIasUIDI 
Ing] 32 sjuenburjap sap uorejdepead ve] JULsTIOAy saHLATIIe sap Jed jo sourewNyY apres ap sornsout sap 
red pyLind9s Ua ja xted Ua juRATA ‘ajsnf 9}9190s aun k Janqi4}UOd ap Jepuew nod ev y9¢ a] Juawiayedioursg 


‘SSUISTULBIO Sad ap say[ad & UONeoTUETd arj0U aBeJURARp J9139jUI_p aNsaUut Ud suOIaS snoU ‘Gqs 
SIN} sp sped a] SUR “epeULD Np seIDd0s sys op suTtUeIZOId Ne yUIOgeTTOD nb sjueUaAJAqUT 
Sop SJepUeUL Sa] aIpusIdWOd XnaIW ap Ue (epeueD UOTeISIUIW] Jd 9}9UUaA0}T) Jo aTeUONeU 3su3}2q 
‘epeues aorjsn{ anb sja}) sara}sTur soijne p sjurjuasgidas sap daav suOT}e][NsUOD sap v adionsed 
‘(epeue) np ajeAOl a1JaWIepuay k] }9 SWIQUI-IN] [e19UIS INd}OIT[OS Np o1a}STUTUT 91) [e19UEB INAyIOITIOS 
NP y[Maja}Jog np soiteusjied sou daae suoTjeINsuOd sap nua} “y9gS np sadojdusa sap sinodu0d 
3] aYOI]JOS suOA snou ‘IsuTY ‘UOTeoyIULTd ap snssad0Id 91}0U k SJURUIAIDJUT SarjNe p uoTedronsed 
opueis snd aun arated ap ue sp19eSUOD 9}9 JUO S]JO}Jo p aeJULARP JS LE] IP CONT UOISTADY kj INOg 


‘snssadoid np sinod ne sajqeJ9pIsuod sadUessTeUUOD Sap ja adUaTIAdxa J ap sinboe suoae snou ‘STO}a}NO], 
"SaQSTA S3]QID Sap S9UTe}199 sIPUTA}e p JUeYSedua snou s]OJ uN sanof uO sayjanbsaq (saje]UswWAaUUOTIAUS 
suorsanb sasioarp xne juenb sa}dwioo ap uoljIppas ap saste]UsWa]391 SadUaSIXa Sa]faANoU sey 12 
SJURINGID ap SIIOAIASEI Sap adesodarua | Ip UOTJEAIISO J ‘SPUTUULJUOD SayIs Sap S9ILIOLId $a] }9 JOS9I], 
Np [lesuoy np sanbryrjod saz) sainat19}x9 suorssaid sap daae UOIINadWOd Ua agqUA s9 (00Z AAS PI 
sUep Sat[qe}a sajqio sap ajutaqqe J ‘azjne UN e WoIpUa UN Pp a1seA Sg130Id ap neaatu af anb arg s2dINOssal 
Sap UOLPUIUIOSUOD e] ap jo UOTINT[Od ke] ap UOT}ONpg. ke] Ins said01d suTe}1a9 gst[eaI SUOAR SON 
‘JUETNUITS JI9Ae JSS snssadoid 99 Ja GUaTHATTUOITAUA J INS $9}Sa3 SoU ap suOIssndJad9I say JUeUIIUOD 
aseq ap saguUUOp Sap IN]JIandaI eB gUIUIUIOD sUOAR sNON ‘souTeMNY_Nb sanbrsdyd jue} ‘saoinosso 
Sou ap ja nea azjou ap ‘azaydsoune axou ap uorda}0Id eT : sayaor1d ston g]qId suoae snow ‘191 nbsn{ 


‘QpUOU! Np No epeuLy np saoimossar say sagstnd9 yuatos au anb tu Ypessgp azj9 sues SUIOSaq 
SOU Ja] QUO ap ainsou Ud Jos JUaWTSUUOITAUD J ab 2d B a1IULUT ap SPPLATIDE Sas JOUIUT IUOP P1ABP DOS 
gy daatuze A nog ‘uoIssedutod eT asTIOARJ Jd JUSWassInoueds | ayioey mb aoueusyedde p Jusuituas un 
JUO Ja gYLINDgs Ua yUa}UAIs as saUUOSIad saJ afjanbey suep 919190s aun siaA Jassarsoid ynad Uo ‘uonejndod 
e] ap XNeJUIUEpUO] SUTOSaq say JULTQUIOD UA Nb jsa afqeinp yuawaddojaagp np UOIsUdYyaIdWIO0d ION 


‘g189}e1]$ 1}0U ap Inol e asTU eT e NRaANOU op suorapgo0id 
snou ‘aporiad aij99 ap uy e] B39 afqeinp Juauaddoyaaap ne Jay[eAes] ap SUOJINUTJUOD snou 'soguue 
saureyoid siox} sap sinoo ny ‘sopuue sauTeyrold sap sinoo ne sIpulaye suo}eYNOs snou anb sj139a/qo 
sa] I[qe39 12 1 nbsnf sydurosse suoae snou anb saisord say anyeag (qd) a14e4np yuatuaddoyjaagp 
ap idaouos np uotsuaysidt0d aij0U 131e][p SUOA SNOU ‘19-a][99 Ip 2APed 2] SUL ‘Q1B9]LIYS IUIQISIOI} 
BS aP NO GS e] 9p WOISIAPI 9WarxNap ks IP ODS P| nod jueuayureUl 118k S |] “19-a[[a9 ap UOISTAZI 
aun 900z ua yINpod e sind “(qqs) atqeinp yuauraddoyaagap ap a1391e115 aratuuaid es £661 Ua atfqnd 
e XNIIPZ] SUISTULSIO Jd SOIQISTUTU £7 JBAK 11909 ap “(DDS) Epeue| Np [PUUO!IE110 JNAIIS J] 


SALE LOS 


dITRSSTUIUOD) 
‘BuN[DOW 319NT 


“Sa[e]UIUIIUUOITAUA sayTTIqesUOdsal SINJ] & SJULUIAIIJUOD $9] JISI[IqIsUas op J2 
3191908 dIJOU ap aUIqeIA kT JoINsse p Jo d1A ap ayyenb azj}0U JaJOLPWe p INA Ua sJURUIAIOJUT sajne xne 
}9 sarreuajied sou e a}J0J-urew Jajgid mod jauuosiad axj0u Ans ajdur0d af ‘suefd sou arANa Ud a1}jat Ja 
JOULJeI & JURNUTJUOD Ua INO], “sauUaTpeUe? sa] Jo SUaTPeUeD sa] INod syue1Jodutt Jworas Inb syey[Ns94 sap 
MPULINL P IIOA Ud SLUIOS sNoU Jo s9yJOLId sou JWIUOD suOAR snou anb JdWIYe p asnamneay sins af 


“XNIIP] SIIQISTUIL Sd1IN SUTLIIIO IP 19 DYN L] ap ‘[esJ9UuIs INayOI]JOS np yeLseI}Z19as 
np sayjao ve aysoidde ajou Ja189,UI.p Ue snssadoid uN suodroWe snou Juan}suOd a] INnb saouase 
SdIINE SIP NO d19}STUTW Np saqjoo ap JuauIUTepUsdgpuT a139}eI}s s1doId az}0U aI}JaUINOS B SUONUTIUOD 
snou anbiong) ‘saguur saiattiJap XIs sap sind ne aqeinp yuautaddoyaaap ap sa1s9ye.14¢ xnop aoeyd ua stu 
J addojaaap JUIMIAITLJUOJOA SUOA ‘[eIZUIS INI}IITJOS Np Q]sTUILT NP InaI9JUL] e souase Nb Jue} Ua 
‘snou ‘soyAjIe sou ap anbrun 319}deIed 3] JULSSIRUODOY ‘[eJ9P9} JUIWIIUIIANOS Np ayjayog | & a]qesnp 
yuawioddoyaaap a] 21ANA Ud 91}J9UI ap 3s9 J1W9a/go | JUOp sjJoddes ap uoresedgid ap ja ued yrueyd 
dp JaWIOJ snssad0id un e& UONedroJed asJ0U ap synggp sa] anbiew e epeuey np [auUo!}da1109 
INIAIIS Np sqeinp Jusuaddojaagp ap a1sajye4}g asgtuasd ek] ap £66] Us JUoWaTIeg ne 3Odap 97] 


‘suosod snou anb sajsas sap undeyp ap sanbisdydorg Ja sanbrurouosgo0190s suorssno1eda1 
Sd] UONeJgpisuod us aipuaid ap jo nd stew yUsWoUUOIIAUI] ap UOT}DaI}0I1d ap auTUTeI3oOId 
UN IIAND Ud 91}J9U Ip aIIp jUstaTNas sed jNaA aU RIaD ‘sUdAO}D Sap SINJNJ 39 S}eIPpPUIUIT sUTOSaq 
xne a1puodg s10Anod nod 9}9190s a1}0U JasTURBIO eB JUSTIA aysodde aun jsa ajqeinp yuauaddoyaagp a] 


“XNBIPP9} S91Q}STUTUL $3] SNO} ap SayTAIIe 


sa] Ja sanbyjod say suep ajuejsodun snjd ua snqd ap aoejd aun adno90 ajqeanp Juauaddoyaagp 9] 10] P| 
suep asspy rug *9}91908 P| Inod ja JuataUIIANOS azjoUu Inod sysord aun ysa ajqesnp yuawaddopaagp J] 


DILESSLUIWO) &] ap abessay 


a "es Ls ape salient pee yas a Lepr 
mor _ td ight ang Ban, WAGaer eign gee): yvliiers mo ox 
= - > | sorte: he " ey dada me A) ei cpa qo ine 


ake ; Pecan Hii SOK pe Mike oan spe hounts pa yy 


ABE Wma toperrencts: wy: fe PeunGgn mR a4 ae eee 


al ty 


aanaeni tee ee oan, Ob oims. ei Antal fi 


= ig) NI? Sales Mpyaune qn Fe ae tL ee oe Ati St 
PPR A Pitlow f) homie » cele oe > sil 


i: a6) 
SPU, GOCE er, Ph Od jure ys 


Nee a 
Sb? a | a 5 DAT ea (= tx, Lars 
4) DUP te Sth jpg, ger NeerLics 
Soy E W bin¢ git PROG Ai ri hiaes, 
” PO taies 6; a Leber tn Oe A Alsen 
a A] 
fe LL GINS non y's bear , wey 


Aa be-binbo | 


‘JauUoNdaI109 majgnbua J ap neaing 3] 19 OY PI 

anquod dyqnd np sayureyd sap uoIsstUMUO) ke] YH LE] AP UAWIeXa P IUIA}X9 PITWOD a] aj  SPULIE Sop USIPPULD IU) I 

‘sa]]2UUOTIIPUOD SUOTILIAq]] Sap ITEUOTLU WOLSsTLULOD P| “EPEULD NP [PUWO!NII1IO9 DIAG 2] “PHINIPS Op yUaWIsUBIISUAI 
Np UdIpeURd adIAJI¢ a] ‘(JYD) epeury np apedoy atsaulepuay ej ‘epeuey) Np [eraua3 MayOIJOS Np aiaystulw UITDURT x 


‘saytsorid say jo sued say ans j10ddey uos suep anb tsure a1a\stuTjy 
NedANOU Np januue JUsWapual ap j1oddey a] suep sgTeUBIS jo SaNRAD JUOIAS $]1}99[qo sa] IIPUTI}e P 
INA ua stjdurosse saisold say ‘epeuey np [es9uas IMd}OIJOS np s1QystuTUI UaIDUe] ap aqeinp 
juawaddoyaaap ap atsaye1¢ e] asodap uo ‘sdw9}-asuy ‘9907 Ua aqeinp yustaddoyaaap ap 3189}e1}5 
a1gttuoid vs elasodap dfIAId UOT}I9}01g P| ap Ja onbiqnd ayandg¢ ek] ap dJa}STUTUT NeaANOU 9] ‘ISUTY 


*QITAIO 
U01}99}01g E[ ap ja anbiygnd syandag ke] ap a1Q]sTUTLU NeaANOU 9d] a1}[PUUODAI Ja JagJ19 Nod saitessad9uU 
snssad0id sa] ja SpytAt]oe sa] s1puaidaue p JUsWafnas jeuaA UO “epeURD Np [eJauas InayIdIT]OS 
Np AQisTUIW UatoUe | ap a[qeinp JUswWaddojaagp ap 9139}eIIG SWISIOI} kT JQUIUII9} ap JUaMIOW Ny 


"PPeURD NP SIIT[eJUOI] SIOTAIAS Sap BdUaBY J][OANoU ky « 

‘IUITID NP UOTUAAgId ap JeUOTLU [IasUO) IT - 

‘O[EAID UOT}Da}01d PT ap Ja Sa|[aUassa sainjonAYseIJUI sap UOrda}OId Re] ap Neaing ay 
‘peuey Np [eI9UIS IMNI}LIITJOS np aypnayayiod usiouey - 


: I[MNajoJOg sugu UN p UTas ne Wun 


Inb afrAtd Uor}da}01g P| ap ya anbyqnd syansg¢ ey ap asaysTUIW NeaANou UN p UOTe=I9 RT JUSWTUTeJOU 
“UdIPPULD JUSWIUJOANOS Ne sjuaasuLYP sap oUOUUR k ax]sTUTUT JarUard a] ‘EQQZ aIQUIaD9P ZI IT 


Sodoijd-jueAy 


sedeg ,o607005 /,0607-003 Jeideg 


ANLNE yy 
eae 
SS e, 


6-22629-299-0 : NASI 
€002/08-28SP : anBojejyeo ap 
£002 — epeueg xnejuawauieanob sariniag sap ja soyqnd xnenesy sap aNSIUI\) @ 


epeuUe: ) 


~~ 


}waus’s d)gNnd/}xe}/e9°96"99s-9s9°mMM//:dyQU 


9}LINIVS Ud Ja xLed Ud JUPALA 
‘aysnf{ ajaLD0s aun_p uaLjuLey 


€00¢ NOISIAIY + JIEVYNG LNIW4AddO1SAIG AG JIDIIVYLS 


epeuey epeuey ms 
BIIMAS |BUOHOABNWOD  |@UUO!}DE09 BdINIES 


