Government 


| a} ue =~ Minsty 
> aan DSR Dia IA ETE | ae . of Hy Rem aut, F 
aaNet fee ff Education haces, 
Bi Oe OMaRO Ati La ak : 
de 1990-91 — ell 
‘ A \ 


Contents 
: Introduction 
Section 1. General Information 4 


Community-based Services 
Sale of Learning Materials 
ILC Pamphlets 


~ Section 2. Eligibility for Enrolment 6 


Adults ae 
Students Under Sixteen 

- Students Attending Day School 
Ontario Residents Temporarily 
- Living Outside Ontario 


Section 3. Freedom of Information 
and Protection of 
Individual Privacy 8 


section 4. Certification | G 


Certificates of Completion 

Tests | 

Student Records 

The Ontario Secondary School 
Diploma 


Consult the ILC Course Guide for the following: 


General Information About Study With ILC 

How to Choose Your First Course 

How to Apply for Your First Course 

Descriptions of Secondary Courses 

Descriptions of Non-credit Adult Basic Education 
Courses : 

Le Guide de I’éléve est disponible en francais sur 

demande. 


Introduction 


The Independent Learning Centre (ILC) is one of 
Canada’s largest educational facilities. A part of the 
Ontario Ministry of Education, ILC provides a free 
home-study program for Ontario residents who wish to 
earn high school diploma credits, upgrade basic skills, 
or study for enjoyment. 


For further information, you are invited to telephone, 
write to, or visit: 

Independent Learning Centre 

909 Yonge Street 

Toronto, Ontario 

M4W 3G2 


Telephone numbers 


Toronto area: (416) 965-2657 
Toll-free: 1-800-387-5512 
Fax: (416) 965-7644 

or 

Independent Learning Centre 
2141 Lasalle Boulevard 
Sudbury, Ontario 

P3A 2A3 


Telephone numbers 


Sudbury area: (705) 688-3045 
Toll-free: 1-800-461-6257 
Fax: (705) 688-3050 


Office hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Mendes to 
Friday. All services are offered in both official | 
languages in Toronto and Sudbury. 


vy General Information 


= 

= Community-based Services 

mc In many regions of the province, it is now nossa to 

Py obtain ILC services locally. At ILC access centres, you 
can obtain information on the ILC program and 
receive assistance in selecting a course. You can alsc 
enrol and obtain your course materials at these 
centres. Access centres are located in Atikokan, 
Brantford, Dryden, Kenora, Kingston, London, North 
Bay, Ottawa, Peterborough, St. Catharines, Sarnia, 
Sault Ste. Marie, Sioux Lookout, Thunder Bay, 
Timmins, and Windsor. 


A similar service is available at most Contact North 
sites in Northern Ontario. 


For further information, contact the Independent 
Learning Centre. 


Sale of Learning Materials 

School boards and educational agencies may 
purchase selected ILC learning materials. Further 

_ information can be found in the ILC Sales Catalogue. 


ILC Pamphlets 

Information pamphlets available from ILC include 
“English As a Second Language” and “Adult Basic 
Literacy’. These pamphlets describe courses in the 
ILC Adult Basic Education program and provide 
information on the role of the volunteer tutor. 


CN. Eligibility for Enrolment 
c 


2 Those eligible to enrol in ILC courses include: 

adults 

students under sixteen years of age 

- students attending day school 

- Ontario residents temporarily living outside Ontario | 


} 


teed 
q — 
@ 
MD - 


Adults 

Adults sixteen years of age or older who reside in | 

Ontario may enrol in ILC courses if they belong to one | 

of the following groups: | 

- Canadian citizens | 

- landed immigrants 

~ Ontario residents holding work visas, diplomatic 
visas, or ministerial permits 


Those applying as adult students must not be | 
currently enrolled as full-time students in a day school. 


An applicant who has been out of day school for less — 
than three months must include with the application — 
form a recommendation from the principal of his or her 
last school. 


Students Under Sixteen | 

ILC courses may be available to Ontario residents of 
compulsory school age who are unable to attend 
school for three months or more for any of the 
following reasons: . 

- extended illness 

- residence in an isolated location in Ontario 

- temporary residence outside Canada 


A Supervised Alternative Learning for Excused Pupils 
(SALEP) Committee may contract the services of the © 
Independent Learning Centre on behalf of students 
legally exempted from secondary school. 


Further information can be found in the ILC pamphlet 
“Students Under Sixteen”. 7 * 


Students Attending Day School 

A full-time day-school student must fulfil all the 

following requirements to be eligible to enrol in an ILC 

course. He or she must: 

- have completed fourteen credits before applying; 

- be unable to take the course at school: 

- have the signed approval of the ILC day-school 
facilitator. 


A day-school principal may contract the services of 
ILC for students attending day classes. A principal 
requesting this service must appoint a day-school 
facilitator and must inform ILC, in writing, of the 
facilitator's name. An eligible student who wishes to 
enrol in an ILC course may apply through this 
facilitator, using Application Form D. Students can 
enrol in only one course at a time. The facilitator is 
responsible for ensuring that students are carefully 
screened, that pacing contracts are established, that 
progress is monitored regularly, and that final tests are 
supervised during classroom time. 


All school boards and private schools participating in 
the ILC day-school program are required to provide 
ILC learning materials (including lessons, texts, and 
kits) for full-time secondary school students enrolling 
in ILC courses. 


Ontario Residents Temporarily Living Outside Ontario 
Ontario residents who are temporarily residing outside 
the province may be considered for enrolment in ILC 
courses. To apply, an applicant should complete and 
submit Application Form F along with up-to-date 
school records. 


_ An applicant who is leaving Canada must supply the 
name and address of an Ontario resident who will be 
responsible for forwarding books, lessons, and marked 
assignments. The complete duties of this liaison 
person are outlined at the time of the student's 
enrolment. The applicant should contact the 
Independent Learning Centre to discuss plans with a 
counsellor at least three weeks before leaving the 
country. 


CD Freedom of Information and Protection 
S Of Individual Privacy 


a The Independent Learning Centre complies with 
Ontario's Freedom of Information and Protection of 
Privacy Act, 1987. 


In accordance with this act, the staff at ILC require 
written consent from a student to release personal 
information to anyone other than the student. 


The following are examples of personal information: 

- information that indicates your participation in a 
course (e.g., actual course material) 

- information concerning your progress in a course 

- your home address or student number 

- information concerning your final tests or lesson 
marks 


When you complete and sign an application form for 
enrolment with ILC, your signature authorizes the 
exchange of educational information between ILC anc 
other educational institutions. | 


You are asked to indicate on the application form 
whether or not you want educational information to be 
released to your immediate family. 


- = Certification 


Certificates of Completion 

“When you complete a correspondence course 

successfully, you receive a Certificate of Completion. 
This certificate states the credit value of the course 
and your final mark. 


Tests 

If you wish to receive credit for a Grade 11 or 12 basic 
or general level course or any advanced level course, 
you must pass a final test as well as complete the 
lesson assignments. Information about the weighting 
of final tests can be found in the introduction to each 
course. 


The final test for a Grade 11 or 12 basic level course 
is unsupervised. You will write the final test in your 
home. However, all final tests in general and 
advanced level courses are supervised. 


If you are writing a supervised test, you will write the 
final test in your own area with an ILC test supervisor. 
If you live in Metropolitan Toronto, you will write the 
final test at the Independent Learning Centre, 909 
Yonge Street, Toronto. If you live in Sudbury, you will 
write the test at the Independent Learning Centre 
Office at 2141 Lasalle Boulevard, Sudbury. If you live 
in one of the other areas in Ontario that have 
designated ILC test centres, you will write the test at 
the centre. 


Information about the details of the test will be sent to 
you before you are scheduled to write it. 


Students over fifty years of age are not required to 
write final tests except in Ontario Academic Courses. 


Student Records 

The Ontario Student Transcript is the record of a 
student’s educational achievement. If you need a 
transcript of marks for courses that you have 
completed with ILC, you can ask the ILC registrar to 
issue an Ontario Student Transcript. It will include your 
final marks and the credit value of the courses you 
have taken. You can also request a progress report 
for a course in which at least half the lessons have 
been completed and graded. 


If you are an ILC student who is also attending day 
school, you must obtain progress reports and the 
Ontario Student Transcript from the school you are 
attending. Your day-school program facilitator will be 
notified of your final marks for any correspondence 
courses you complete. 


The Independent Learning Centre reports to the 
Ministry of Education all credits and diplomas that 
have been awarded to ILC students. 


The Ontario Secondary School Diploma 

Diploma requirements for all Ontario schools are set 
by the Ministry of Education. If your aim is to earn the 
Ontario Secondary School Diploma (OSSD), the ILC 
staff will work with you to plan a program that meets all 
the requirements. 


An assessment of your educational standing with 
regard to the OSSD requirements is made after you 
have completed your first ILC course. You must 
submit all your educational records to ILC before the 
ILC registrar can make this evaluation. Since it may 
take time for you to obtain these records from your 
previous schools, you should request them before you 
complete your first course. 


| 


ALC will assess the records of students who previously 
‘studied outside Ontario to determine what additional 
‘requirements they must meet in order to qualify for the 
;OSSD. 


‘If you earn your last credit for the OSSD through ILC, 
‘the diploma will be issued by ILC unless you have 
‘requested that it be issued by the school you last 
attended. 


To qualify for the OSSD you must earn thirty credits, 
sixteen of which are compulsory. 


Credits required for the OSSD 


Compulsory courses Number of credits 
-English/frangais 
-French/anglais 

Mathematics 

Science 

Canadian history 

Canadian geography 

Arts 

Physical and health education 
Business/Technological studies 
Social science (Senior Division) 
Total compulsory credits 16 
Elective credits 14 
Total credits 30 


Grade 13 or Ontario Academic Course (OAC) credits 
are required for admission to university. They may be 
included in the requirements for the OSSD, or they 
may be studied independently. The prerequisite for 
each OAC is listed in the course description. 


For information regarding admission to postsecondary 
programs, contact the institution you plan to attend. 


imporian’ information jor mature siucenis 

If you are a mature student—that is, if you are at least 

eighteen years of age and have been out of school for 

a period of at least one year—you may be granted 

equivalent credits towards the OSSD for the following: 

~ your age and the length of time you have been out 
of school (this can count for up to twelve credits); 

- successful completion of courses not normally 
considered secondary school subjects; 

- successful completion of each period of an 
apprenticeship training program. 


Equivalent credits are added to the other credits you 
earn. They may replace some of the compulsory 
credits for the OSSD. 


However, no matter how many equivalent credits you 
are granted, you are still required to complete courses 
before a diploma can be issued. 


Equivalent standing applies only towards completion 
of the OSSD. 


The Certilicate of Education 

lf you leave school without earning an OSSD, you 
may be eligible for a Certificate of Education. You 
must have earned at least fourteen credits: six 
compulsory and eight elective credits. 


If you have a question about your diploma 
requirements, call the Independent Learning Centre 
for further information. 


ae 2 
a ee 


poet - 


eee Se 
SSS RTS 
Sa 
Poa ETS 
< eres. a 
Sa 


