he | Publicetiodd 
YLI¢ 
3 — Background Paper — BP-237E 
==o fi \ 
=o P257A 
=S=n 


| 


< ABORIGINAL LAND CLAIMS ISSUES 


Wendy Moss 
Peter Niemczak 
Law and Government Division 


September 1990 
Revised July 1991 


.. 
| alalala 
» anne 


a of 


auuerer Resear ch 
\ ‘uielerert | DYanch 


Le Service de recherche de la Bibliotheque du Parlement 
travaille exclusivement pour le Parlement, effectuant des 
recherches et fournissant des informations aux parlementaires 
et aux comités du Sénat et de la Chambre des communes. 


Entre autres services non partisans, il assure la rédaction de 
rapports, de documents de travail et de bulletins d’actualité. 
Les attachés de recherche peuvent en outre donner des - 
consultations dans leurs domaines de compétence. 


© Ministre des Approvisionnements et Services Canada 1992 
N° de cat. YM32-2-237-1991-07F 
ISBN 0-660-93787-5 


THIS DOCUMENT IS ALSO 
PUBLISHED IN ENGUSH 


CANADA 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


ABORIGINAL LAND CLAIMS ISSUES 


INTRODUCTION 


Aboriginal land claims today involve much more than strictly 
legal questions about the collective property rights of aboriginal people. 
Contemporary land claims issues are not simply, or even primarily, 
concerned with determining an appropriate amount of monetary compensation 
for existing land rights or for lands improperly taken away. While such 
compensation is an important element, the issue of aboriginal land claims 
is often as broad as the more general field of "aboriginal rights." 
Aboriginal people assert that, in addition to outstanding land rights 
questions, a range of political rights issues have also remained unresolved 
since colonial times and have been largely ignored since Confederation. 

Government policy distinguishes between two kinds of land 
claims. Specific claims are defined as claims arising from specific 
unfulfilled legal obligations of the federal government (such as unful- 
filled treaty provisions respecting reserve land entitlement). Current 
federal policy allows for the settlement of such claims by land grants or 
cash compensation. 

Comprehensive claims are essentially composed of a legal 
element and a factual element. The legal element is a viable legal claim 
to unextinguished aboriginal title through demonstrating that the territory 
in question is not covered by a treaty or a claims agreement and that 
aboriginal title has not been extinguished by the Crown. The factual 
element must demonstrate traditional and, under current policy, continu- 
ing use and occupancy of the claimed territory by the claimant group since 


"time immemorial." 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


2 


The broad-ranging nature of modern land claims is evident in 
these comprehensive claims, which are based upon unextinguished aboriginal 
title to land where the claimant group can establish a "traditional and 
continuing interest." (1) Negotiations of these claims typically involve 
compensation in various forms (money, land) and legal guarantees regarding 
resource use, control of local authorities such as school boards, and a 
voice in regulatory regimes affecting local concerns such as the environ- 
ment. From the aboriginal perspective, these negotiations should 
necessarily include self-government matters in a comprehensive way. 
Current federal policy does not allow this, in order to avoid constitu- 
tional entrenchment of any self-government arrangement by operation of 
S. 35(3) of the Constitution Act, 1982. 

Aboriginal rights, including aboriginal title, can be 
defined in a very general way as the pre-existing rights of the aboriginal 
people of this continent. These rights have their source in the period 
before aboriginal contact with European nations and have survived, to an 
undetermined degree, Euro-Canadian settlement and assertions of 
sovereignty. In the context of Canadian federalism, aboriginal rights 
define the relationship of aboriginal people, collectively and 
individually, with the federal and provincial governments. One of the most 
significant questions yet to be explicitly addressed by the Supreme Court 
is to what extent, if any, aboriginal peoples possess any residual 
sovereignty. This question has become even more critical since the 
enactment of s. 35(1) of the Constitution Act, 1982, which recognizes and 
affirms "existing aboriginal and treaty rights." Following the enactment 
of s. 35, First Ministers' Conferences on aboriginal rights between 1983 
and 1987 failed to produce agreement on a definition of aboriginal rights, 
specifically an aboriginal right to self-government. 


(1) Comprehensive Land Claims Policy, Minister of Indian Affairs and 
Northern Development, 1986. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


3 


It is the view of some authorities that no one coherent 
theory satisfactorily explains how sovereignty over aboriginal peoples and 
their lands was accomplished in terms of 19th century international law. 
These authorities argue that the international legal theory used to 
rationalize the denial of the right to self-determination to indigenous 
people is problematic in view of the similar colonial experience of Third 
World peoples and the reasons advanced for recognizing their right to 
self-determination as a fundamental human right. (2) 

The question is complicated, of course, by the fact that 
aboriginal people are not one undifferentiated group. They have 
historically distinguished among themselves as separate cultures, tribes, 
nations or peoples. These various groups experienced colonisation at 
different periods, and colonial and Canadian federal practice on the 
question of pre-existing aboriginal rights was inconsistent from one area 
to another. 

Aboriginal land claims essentially arise from the failure of 
colonial and post-Confederation governments to address, precisely and 
adequately, the nature, content and scope of aboriginal rights to land, 
resources and political autonomy. Professor Sanders of the Faculty of Law 
at the University of British Columbia has described the development of 
colonial theory on aboriginal rights in Canada, as an ad hoc process that 
occurred as settlement moved westward; he has suggested that the legal 
doctrines commonly relied on to explain the acquisition of land and 
sovereignty are attempts to rationalize government practices after the 
fact: 

The various European powers which established colonies 
in the new world after 1492 did not begin with any 
theory of colonialism or any established law on the 
rights of indigenous populations. The Spanish debate 
on indigenous rights occurred after territories were 
captured. British theory came after British practice. 


The early British grants on the east coast of North 
America were silent on the question of indigenous 


(2) For example, E.S. Gordon Bennett, Aboriginal Rights in International 
Law, Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, 
1978. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


4 


rights and even on the fact of indigenous popula- 

tions. (3) 
Even when colonial policy on aboriginal rights had developed into an 
identifiable body of principles and was eventually codified in the Royal 
Proclamation of 1763, it was inconsistently applied by colonial and 
post-Confederation governments. (4) This is evident from looking. at a map 
of Canada showing the large part of the country that is covered by treaty 
agreements and the large part that is not. 

The precise legal nature of aboriginal title remains to be 
determined by the courts. Consequently, claims negotiations operate under 
a rather large cloud of legal uncertainty. The Supreme Court of Canada has 
had few opportunities to address aboriginal title questions and when it 
has, remarkably little has been said about it. This may change over the 
next five years or so, aS a result of a few carefully framed yet broadly 
based aboriginal title claims now working their way through the courts. 
The Gitskan-We'tsuwe'ten claim (Delgamuukw v. The Queen) recently rejected 
by the British Columbia Supreme Court (March 1991) raises some of the most 
critical issues a Canadian court has ever had to address in this area of 
the law. The indigenous plaintiffs in this case have asserted a claim to 
some form of residual indigenous sovereignty as well as property rights in 
their traditional territory. 

To date, the Supreme Court of Canada has confirmed that 
aboriginal title is a legal concept forming part of the common law of 
Canada - but without determining to what extent the territory of Canada is 
still subject to this interest. It is clear that aboriginal title can only 
be surrendered or sold to the Crown. Significantly, the Court has said 
that aboriginal title has sources independent of statutory or other forms 
of government recognition - in other words, that it is a "pre-existing 
right." The Court has also said that aboriginal title is an interest in 


(3) Douglas Sanders, Aboriginal Self-Government in the United States, 
Background Paper No. 5, Aboriginal Peoples and Constitutional Reform, 
Institute of Intergovernmental Relations, Queen's University, 
Kingston, 1985, p. 3. 


(4) Douglas Sanders, "Native People in Areas of Internal National 
Expansion" (1974) 38 Sask. Law Rev. 63. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


5 


land that amounts to more than a right of use and occupancy. The Court has 
been very cautious in describing the nature of aboriginal title any further 
and has stated that it cannot be easily described in traditional property 
law terms (Canadian Pacific Ltd. v. Paul, [1989] 1 C.N.L.R. 47; Guerin v. 
The Queen [1984] 2 S.C.R. 335). 

The legacy of the ad hoc development of indigenous land 
rights policy and ill-defined legal doctrines remains; large parts of 
British Columbia, the Yukon, the Northwest Territories and other parts of 
the country are not covered by any treaty and there is no definitive set of 
legal rulings that clearly define the nature and content of aboriginal 
title, the conditions required for it to subsist and how it may be 
extinguished. 

Since the Supreme Court of Canada decision in Calder v. 
A.G. of British Columbia [1973] S.C.R. 313, recognizing the concept of 
aboriginal title as part of Canadian common law, the federal government has 
followed a policy of negotiating some of the land claims asserted by 
aboriginal people. The negotiation process available under the federal 
comprehensive claims policy provides an opportunity to settle certain 
claims through an administrative process. The claims recognized by the 
federal government are, essentially, those that the federal Department of 
Justice considers to have a sufficient legal basis to justify an out-of- 
court settlement. If a claim is judged "valid," and the Department of 
Indian Affairs accepts it for negotiation, the same Department has the 
mandate to negotiate a settlement and to allocate funds for claims 
research. Since 1973, federal policy has distinguished between "specific 
claims" (legal claims arising from federal obligations under treaties or 
from federal management of Indian assets (e.g., reserve lands and band 
funds) and "comprehensive claims" (claims based on  unextinguished 
aboriginal title). The current federal policy statement on specific claims 
is a 1982 document entitled Outstanding Business. The original policy 
statement on comprehensive claims policy was entitled In All Fairness 
(1981). A revised policy statement was issued in March 1987 which modified 
some areas of the comprehensive claims policy but kept intact most aspects 


of the previous policy and process. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


6 


To date, 28 comprehensive claims have been accepted for 
negotiation. The land claims process is frequently criticized as 
intolerably slow - some claims have been under negotiation for 15 years. 
Of the three or four existing modern claims settlements, only one, the 
Western Arctic Claims Settlement, is truly the product of the comprehensive 
claims policy process. The Cree, Inuit and Naskapi settlements covering 
northern and northeastern Quebec are products of independent negotiations 
in the early 1970s that perhaps inspired the current policy. 

The number of specific claims under active negotiation is 
not necessarily limited to a given number but is in practice restricted by 
the budgetary allocation in a given year for settlement of these claims. 

The aboriginal community's frustration with the compre- 
hensive and specific claims policy is high. Despite a federal review in 
1985 and a "revision" in 1986, the comprehensive claims policy is not much 
different from when it was first announced in 1973. Many commentators have 
stated that parts of the comprehensive claims process should be managed or 
at least monitored by an independent agency. There is also mounting 
pressure from a number of sources for the creation of an independent 
tribunal to deal with specific claims. Some observers have concluded that 
at the current rate, it will take well into the next century and perhaps 
even longer to deal with both specific and comprehensive claims. 


SPECIFIC CLAIMS POLICY 


Specific claims have been succinctly described by Mr. 
Justice La Forest, now of the Supreme Court of Canada: 


Basically, a specific claim is an allegation by the 
Indians that the Crown through its servants or agents 
has committed a wrong by maladministration of Indian 
matters or by breach of a treaty for which it ought to 
pay compensation. (5) 


(5) G.V. La Forest, Report on Administrative Processes for the Resolution 
of Specific Indian Claims, prepared for the Office of Native Claims, 
DIAND, 1979, p. 9. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


7 


In the 1982 federal policy statement on specific claims 
entitled Outstanding Business, the federal government stated its willing- 
ness to deal with two broad classes of specific claims. The first class is 
‘made up of claims based on unfulfilled "lawful obligations" of the federal 
government (e.g., non-fulfillment of treaty obligations, obligations 
‘arising out of the Indian Act or other statutory instruments, obligations 
arising from improper administration or illegal disposition of reserve land 
or band funds). 

The second class of specific claims relates to situations 
involving some prejudice to Indian interests in reserve lands but not 
creating a legal obligation on the part of Canada; this class appears to be 
limited to two specific types of circumstances: 

1) failure to provide compensation for reserve lands taken 


or damaged by the federal government or any of its 
agencies under authority (e.g., the B.C. cut-off claims 


or expropriations for a public purpose); 


2) fraud in connection with the acquisition or disposition 
of Indian reserve land by employees or agents of the 
federal government, in cases where the fraud can be 
clearly demonstrated. 

The third main element of the 1982 policy is the federal 
government's commitment to examine each case on its merits and not to rely 
on technical legal defences (statutes of limitation, doctrine of laches) to 
reject negotiation of a claim. The government has, however, reserved its 
right to use such defences in litigation, and apparently does so in 
negotiations to discount the question of compensation claimed. (6) 

Since the publication of Outstanding Business, the 
Department of Indian and Northern Affairs has undergone some reorganization 
affecting the claims area. The process for dealing with specific claims 
described in the policy statement is unchanged, except that a Specific 
Claims Branch has taken over the role of the now dismantled Office of 


Native Claims for receiving, assessing and negotiating specific claims. 


(6) Vic Savino, The "Blackhole" of Specific Claims in Canada: Need It 
Take Another 500 Years?, paper presented to Canadian Bar Association 
Conference, Winnipeg, April 1989, at p. 12. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


8 


Figures released by the Department of Indian Affairs reveal 
that the total number of specific claims "settled," in the sense that 
agreements have been reached with the parties concerned, is now at 47. 
Other claims have been processed with some degree of finality, but the 
degree of satisfaction of the native parties is not clear. For example, 44 
claims have been rejected and 69 have been referred out of the specific 
claims process to other parts of the Department ("administrative 
referral"). In 52 cases the Department is taking no further action until 
more information is received from the claimant group ("closed file"). On 
this basis, the Department reports that 212 of the 606 claims submitted 
have been "resolved." Of the remaining 394, 292 are "in process" (of being 
negotiated) and 102 are in "other status" (suspended, under litigation or 
"claimant reassessment"). (7) 

The Minister of Indian Affairs, Tom Siddon, has said he 
would like to deal fairly with the outstanding specific land claims by the 
end of this century, and the Prime Minister has recently stated the 
government's intention to expedite the settlement process for both specific 
and comprehensive claims. 

A recent Communiqué of the Department of Indian Affairs 
provides some details on government plans for a Specific Claims Commission 
and a Joint Indian/Government Working Group that would advise government on 
various matters relating to specific claims, including the working of the 
proposed Specific Claims Commission. (8) The Communiqué states that an 
Indian Specific Claims Commission would be established by Order-in-Council 
under Part I of the Inquiries Act, as an independent body and that "A band 
may go to the Commission when it disagrees with the Minister's rejection of 
its claim for negotiation. The Commission would make recommendations to 
the Governor-in-Council on whether the band has established that Canada has 
an outstanding lawful obligation as defined in the Specific Claims Policy." 
The Working Group would be composed of nominees of the Indian Affairs 


(7) As of 10 July 1991. 


(8) Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, Communique #1-9135, April 25, 
1991. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


9 


Minister and the Justice Minister and an equal number of members nominated 
by the Chiefs' Committee on Specific Claims. The Communiqué also announced 
some substantive policy change: the government will now consider specific 
claims arising from pre-Confederation treaties, a policy change long 
requested by native rights advocates. ee 

The government's proposal keeps the existing process intact 
and adds additional steps. That is, there would be an opportunity to have 
Ministerial decisions on the validity of specific claims reviewed by the 
proposed Commission, but in a non-binding fashion. The proposed Commission 
also would have a mandate to review and make recommendations on criteria 
used in determining compensation if a claimant group so wished. Finally, 
claimants could still take matters to court if not satisfied with 
Commission recommendations or government decisions. The proposed 
commission would therefore be a review panel with no authority to bind 
either party by its decisions, rather than an adjudicative body. It 
appears that the Commission's mandate will be the object of study by a 
Joint Indian/Government Working Group announced in the same Communiqué. 
Among other matters, this Working Group may consider the following: 


- the definition of a specific claim; 

- validation criteria; 

- compensation criteria; 

- the working of the Specific Claims Commission; 

- provincial involvement in the specific claims process. 


Thus, the recommendations of the Working Group could address 
issues such as whether the Specific Claims Commission should have any 
adjudicative function and whether substantive aspects of claims policy 
(such as the definition of "specific claims") should be modified. The 
result of the working group process could be more substantial changes to 
policy and process if such recommendations are adopted by the Government. 
The creation of a tribunal and a task force with native representation to 
advise on its function is in some respects consistent with a recommendation 
of the 1988 Canadian Bar Association Committee Report, Aboriginal Rights in 
Canada: An Agenda for Action. However, that recommendation anticipated 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


10 


some form of adjudicatory function for a specific claims tribunal. While 
the Task Force represents a form of consultation, the government has been 
accused of using the device of Chiefs Committees and Task Forces to bypass 
consultations with the Assembly of First Nations. 

One of the first actions taken towards establishing the 
Indian Specific Claims Commission was announced in a communiqué issued by 
the Department of Indian Affairs. This stated that Mr. Harry S. LaForme, 
a member of the Mississaugas of the New Credit Indian Band, had been 
appointed as Chief Commissioner of the Indian Specific Claims Commission 
and would assume his duties on 5 August 1991. (9) 


COMPREHENSIVE CLAIMS POLICY 


The federal government has had a comprehensive claims policy 
since 1973 but made it more explicit in 1981 by publishing a policy 
statement entitled In All Fairness. Since 1973, three comprehensive claims 
settlements (Final Agreements) have been ratified and are currently in 
operation: 


1) the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement (1975) 
2) the Northeastern Quebec Agreement (1978) 
3) the Inuvialuit Final Agreement (1984) 


In 1990, a Final Agreement was reached with the Dene/Metis 
in the Northwest Territories, as was an Umbrella Agreement with the Council 
of Yukon Indians. An Agreement-in-Principle was reached with the Tungavik 
Federation of Nunavut in 1990. The Yukon Agreement awaits ratification by 
the communities concerned. The Dene/Metis Agreement failed because it was 
not so ratified. 

The federal government has recently lifted the limit on the 
number of accepted claims under negotiation. The comprehensive claims 
resolution process has been severely criticized in terms of policy and 
procedure. In response to widespread criticism, a federal task force 


chaired by Murray Coolican was struck in 1985 to review comprehensive 


(9) Indian and Northern Affairs Canada, Communiqué #1-9173, 15 July 1991. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


ae | 


claims policy. The "Coolican Report," officially entitled Living Treaties: 
Lasting Agreements, was submitted to the government in December of 
1985. 


A. The Coolican Report 


The Coolican Report recommended recasting federal policy 
objectives, by moving away from the goal of blanket extinguishment of all 
aboriginal rights and the view of aboriginal peoples and their rights as 
impediments to national economic growth. The Report suggested a new 
perspective in which claims resolution would be seen as negotiation of a 
social contract balancing the needs and rights of aboriginal societies with 
those of governments so as to ensure certainty of land ownership and 
development of land and resources. 

The Report made a number of specific recommendations, 
summarized as follows: 


allowing alternatives to blanket extinguishment of abori- 
ginal rights 


guaranteeing aboriginal participation in decisions about 
land and resource management 


including offshore rights in negotiations 
allowing for the possibility of resource revenue sharing 


allowing for pre-implementation of certain matters and for 
periodic review and adjustment of settlements (with 
reference to arbitration if necessary) 


acknowledging variation in benefits from settlement to 
settlement to reflect diverging economic needs and oppor- 
tunities 


_ appointment of an independent Commissioner for Aboriginal 
Land Claims Agreements to monitor the process at all 
stages and to report to Parliament as needed 


use of framework agreements to ensure consensus at the 
beginning of negotiations about the key contents of a 
settlement and a timetable for negotiation and implementa- 
tion, 10) 


(10) Northern Perspectives, Vol. 15, No. 1, January-April 1987. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


12 


B. The 1986 Statement of Comprehensive Land Claims Policy 


In December 1986, the Honourable Bill McKnight, then 
Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, announced a revised 
claims policy, the full text of which was published in March 1987. The 
government reaffirmed its policy commitment to resolution of comprehensive 
land claims through the negotiation of settlement agreements that are to 
provide certainty and clarity of rights to ownership and the use of land 
and resources in areas where aboriginal title has not been dealt with by 
treaty or superseded by law. 

One significant change is that aboriginal groups are no 
longer required to extinguish all aboriginal rights, title and interests, 
but only those related to the use of and title to land and resources. 
Other aboriginal rights, to the extent they are defined through the 
constitutional process or recognized by the courts, are not affected by the 
policy. Certainty of title to land is required, but two options are 
available. Aboriginal groups may either: 

Convey all aboriginal title to settlement area lands, 


in exchange for grant-back of lands or land-related 
rights in agreed areas; 


or they may choose to: 

Convey aboriginal title to certain specified lands in 
claim area, and retain aboriginal title in selected 
lands. 


In both cases other defined rights may apply in the entire settlement area. 
Other aspects of the 1986 policy include the following: 


acknowledgement that land claims negotiations are more 
than real estate transactions; 


the range of negotiations is to be set by framework 
agreements beforehand; 


no land grants are to be’ made in areas of dispute between 
different aboriginal groups (overlapping claims); 


negotiations regarding harvesting rights (hunting, 
fishing, trapping) may include offshore areas; 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


ie 


preferential harvesting rights for aboriginal claimants on 
unoccupied Crown lands may be negotiated; exclusive 
harvesting rights on selected lands are possible as are 
preferential rights for particular species of animals in a 
settlement area; 


subsurface rights on some federal Crown land and on 
settlement lands may be granted; 


revenue sharing in resource royalties (including offshore 
areas) may be negotiated but may be subject to some limi- 
tation such as a "dollar cap", time cap or decreasing 
percentage; revenue sharing would not involve resource 
ownership rights and may be deducted from any cash settle- 
ment; 


aboriginal participation in environmental management may 
be negotiated in the form of membership on advisory 
committees or other similar bodies or through participa- 
tion in government bodies that have decision-making 
powers; 


acknowledgment that "community self-government" may form 
part of claims negotiations but self-government arrange- 
ments must be within existing constitutional principles 
and be consistent with "government practices"; self- 
government will take the form of delegated federal 
authority and "most aspects of such arrangements will not 
receive constitutional protection unless a constitutional 
amendment to this effect is in force"; 


provincial participation in negotiations is encouraged and 
provinces should contribute to settlements in exchange for 
certainty of title; 


acknowledgment that appropriate interim measures must be 
established to protect aboriginal interests while claims 
are being negotiated; 


settlements are not to prejudice existing third party 
interests including non-aboriginal subsistence hunters, 
general public recreation, etc.; 


Claimants will be advised within 12 months of the accep- 
tance or rejection of their claims; 


framework agreement negotiations will be initiated where 
the Minister views the likelihood of successful negotia- 
tions to be high, the settlement of claims a priority and . 
where necessary provincial or territorial participation 
may be obtained; 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


14 


a group must satisfy the Minister that it, has a mandate to 
negotiate on behalf of the claimants; 


final agreements must be accompanied by implementation 
plans; 


a comprehensive Land Claims Steering Committee is to be 
established; composed of Assistant Deputy Ministers from 
the agencies and departments most involved, to review and 
provide advice to Ministers at all stages of the negotia- 
tion process. 


C. Aboriginal Response to Coolican Report and the 
1986 Policy Statement 
While the Coolican Report was almost universally praised by 
aboriginal groups, the 1986 policy statement has been criticized for moving 
very little from previous statements and for: 


not dealing with difficulties in defining claims as 
specific as opposed to comprehensive; 


retention of the concept of aboriginal title being "super- 
seded by law" (e.g., by local land grants); 


failing to deal with the issue of conflict of interest 
(i.e., the federal government's role in deciding which 
claims to accept for negotiation, sitting in judgment of 
their legal validity and generally controlling the process 
from beginning to end is considered inappropriate given 
that the government also has a role as a party with 
interests to protect); 


failing to adopt the Coolican Report's recommendations for 

a process of modifying settlements and appointment of an 

independent Commissioner for Aboriginal Land Claims 

Agreements. 

A December 1986 study for the Assembly of First Nations 

(AFN) is reported to have concluded that the 1986 claims policy statement, 
along with federal policies on self-government and constitutional amendment 
strategies, amounts to a policy of terminating federal responsibilities to 
aboriginal people. The AFN view is that the government's 1986 policy 
statement does not represent any significant departure from former policies 
on aboriginal title. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


15 
CLAIMS POLICY ISSUES 


Aboriginal people's criticisms of the process for submitting 
and negotiating a settlement of land claims - whether specific or compre- 
hensive - have remained consistent over the years and have received support 
from a number of authorities. For example, a Committee of the Canadian Bar 
Association (CBA) conducted an analysis of aboriginal affairs policy ina 
document entitled Aboriginal Rights in Canada: An Agenda for Action, which 
was adopted by the CBA at its 1989 annual meeting. The Committee concluded 
that a new policy environment was needed for land claims matters before any 
constructive and meaningful discussions could be expected. 

Many substantive and procedural aspects of both claims 
policies have never been accepted by aboriginal peoples as fair or 
reasonable. This paper will briefly outline a few of these concerns. 


A. Distinguishing Between Specific and Comprehensive Claims 


One criticism of claims policy is the unclear distinction 
between specific and comprehensive claims. This is a major element of the 
well-publicized and ongoing dispute between the federal government and the 
Lubicon Lake Band. The Lubicon people were overlooked in the 1899 negotia- 
tions of Treaty No. 8, and a 1949 federal promise to supply a reserve has 
been embroiled in various delays and controversies. | 

A fundamental area of dispute is the federal position that 
the title of the Lubicon was extinguished by Treaty No. 8 because the 
territory to which the treaty was intended to apply includes Lubicon land. 
In this view, the Lubicon claim is essentially a treaty entitlement claim 
and therefore a specific claim, and the federal obligation is limited to 
compensation to be determined by the terms of the 1899 treaty. The 
Lubicon, on the other hand, consider themselves to have an unextinguished 
aboriginal title to their traditional lands and, therefore, a comprehensive 


claim, open to settlement on more expansive terms. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


16 


B. Conflicts of Interest 


The following quotation on the specific claims process from 
the CBA Report echoes many of the criticisms of the comprehensive claims 
process as well: 


Aboriginal leaders have expressed many times their 
perceptions of numerous conflicts of interest that the’ 
Specific Claims Branch may be in. First DIAND, which 
has been indicted as the cause of many of the claims 

filed, is asked to assess their "validity." Second, 

this same department controls access to the process and 
the funding. Third, the department acts to defend the 

federal government in reaching a compensation agreement 
with the Indian claimants; yet the department also has 

fiduciary or trust responsibilities to the Indian 
people to protect "Indians, and Lands reserved for the 

Indians," under section 91(24) of the Constitution Act, 

1867. (41) 


A number of authorities who have examined the federal land 
claims policy in recent years have focused particular attention on issues 
relating to process, in part because of conflict-of-interest issues and 
also because of the very slow rate at which both types of claims are 
settled. Some claims have been under negotiation for more than 15 years. 
Several authorities, and many aboriginal organizations, have recommended 
that the process for dealing with land claims, especially specific land 
claims, could be expedited and made more fair by involving some neutral 
third party to deal with some aspects. The notion of creating a quasi- 
judicial body to adjudicate specific land claims has been repeatedly 
suggested, most recently by the Canadian Bar Association, whose report 
recommended : 

After a thorough consultation with aboriginal people, 
perhaps with the utilization of a task force such as 
was used to develop the new policy on comprehensive 
claims, the federal government should proceed with the 
creation of a legislatively based specific claims 


tribunal with a clearly defined mandate to adjudicate 
the resolution of special claims. 


(11) Aboriginal Rights: An Agenda for Action, p. 55. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


17 


In 1979, Mr. Justice La Forest concluded in a report for the 
government that: 


The need for impartiality and the appearance of 
impartiality as well as finality in determining Indian 
claims strongly argue for the establishment of an 
independent body separate from departmental structures 
for the settlement of specific claims. (j2) 

Comprehensive claims are regarded as less suitable for this 
kind of adjudication; successful settlements will likely involve a number 
of complex matters, such as the type of legislation to be applied in the 
settlement territory, that are more amenable to political settlement than 
judicial or administrative adjudication. However, recommendations have 
been made over the years for creation of an independent body to handle the 
allocation of research and negotiation funds to comprehensive claimant 
groups. Funding issues arose repeatedly in the negotiations with the 
Dene/Metis of the Northwest Territories. The House of Commons Standing 
Committee on Aboriginal Affairs in May 1991 recommended an independent body 
to advise government on which specific and comprehensive claims to accept. 
The Committee also recommended that, subject to consultations with 
aboriginal groups, the federal government: pi 

Establish a judicial tribunal independent of government 


to deal with the validity of specific claims and to 
recommend compensation required to meet valid claims; 


Establish an independent body to monitor and review the 
implementation of claims policy and of claims 
agreements to ensure fairness; 


* Establish a National Mediation Service, independent of 
the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Develop- 
ment and of the Department of Justice, composed of 
expert mediators in each region of the country 
acceptable to the parties involved. These people would 
be made available to apply their mediation skills to 


(12) Report on Administrative Processes for the Resolution of Specific 
Indian Claims, prepared for the Office of Native Claims, DIAND, 1979, 
p. 64; 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


18 


prevent local land use conflicts from expanding into 
larger disputes. (13) 


Proposals for claims commissions and other forms of third- 
party involvement have been made for many years in Canada. For example, 
Joint Committees of the Senate and the House of Commons in 1946-48 and 
1959-61 recommended the creation of an Indian Claims Commission. Enabling 
legislation to establish such a Commission died on the Order Paper in 1963 
and 1965. An Indian Claims Commission, with advisory powers only, was 
eventually created in 1969, with Dr. Lloyd Barber as the sole Commis- 
sioner. The Commission, which was eventually dismantled, was regarded by 
aboriginal organizations as powerless and, consequently, ineffective. 

In June 1989, the federal government appointed a "Treaty 
Commissioner" to address outstanding treaty issues in Saskatchewan. In his 
report of May 1990, Commissioner Wright made recommendations on how to 
facilitate the settlement of treaty land entitlements (a category of 
specific claims) in Saskatchewan. The federal government views the use of 
a Treaty Commissioner and the Saskatchewan report as initiatives from which 
other treaty groups could benefit. 

The 1990 Indian Commission of Ontario (ICO) report on 
aboriginal land claims policy, Discussion Paper Regarding First Nations 
Land Claims, concluded that the basic choice in considering models for 
claims resolution is between negotiation and adjudication. The Indian 
Commission of Ontario is an independent body established by joint federal- 
provincial Orders-in-Council in 1978 and intended to assist in the 
resolution of issues of mutual concern to Canada, Ontario and First 
Nations, including land claims issues. The ICO favoured empowering an 
independent commission such as itself with powers to motivate parties to 
negotiate in an expeditious fashion. 

The Discussion Paper Regarding First Nations Land Claims of 
the Indian Commission of Ontario commented on concerns about adjudicative 
tribunals in the following manner: "There is a real and present concern by 


(13) House of Commons, The Summer of 1990, Fifth Report of the Standing 
Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, Minutes of Proceedings and Evidence, 
Issue No. 59, May 1991, at p. 32. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


19. 


the First Nations that any tribunal that may be established not model 
itself too closely on the practices and procedures of a court of law. This 
would appear to be the most common complaint regarding the United States 
Indian Claims Commission in that it followed the adversary system and 
played a wholly passive role of weighing evidence" (p. 87) a 

, There are advantages and disadvantages to both negotiation 
and adjudication models. Doug Sanders has noted the potential for claims 
commissions to be élite, non-consensual models for change. On the other 
hand, Sanders has also questioned the assumptions he says underlie the 
Current negotiations model of federal claims policy. These assumptions 
are: 


1. that negotiations presume agreement on what claims should be 
settled; ; 


2. that there is a continuing government commitment to settle 
claims; 


3. that governments will organize themselves properly to negotiate 
settlements; and 


4. that there is equality of bargaining power between native and 
government parties. (14) 

Sanders has concluded, "Something seems wrong with the assumptions behind 
the choice of negotiation alone as the best method of settling claims... 
If there is a real commitment to settle some of these claims, there seems 
little question we need new institutions." (15) sanders also has compared 
the extreme slowness in settling claims in Canada under the negotiations 
model with the speed of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's work and notes 
the problem of not having an institution in Canada to carry on previous 


commitments when federal or provincial governments change. 


(14) Background Paper for the Canadian Bar Association Special Committee on 
Native Justice in 1988: The Australian Aboriginal Land Commissioner, 
publication forthcoming by the CBA. 


(15) Ibid. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


20 


C. Extinguishment of Aboriginal Title 


There are fundamental differences between the government and 
aboriginal people on the appropriate goal of the claims settlement 
process. Governments are intent on achieving an extinguishment of 
aboriginal title. Aboriginal people, on the other hand, object strongly to 
the notion of extinguishment and see claims negotiations rather as an 
Opportunity for the parties to work out an agreement on the practical 
implications of aboriginal title. On this issue, Georges Erasmus, National 
Chief of the Assembly of First Nations, has stated: 

We have opposed extinguishment on many grounds: our 
aboriginal rights flow from the ownership of the land; 
extinguishment severs our links with the past, and 
ensures that our future rights will flow from the 
government's granting of rights. This converts our 
rights into privileges. In addition, extinguishment 
prevents revival of our aboriginal rights when the 
government does not honour its agreement. And, 
finally, we oppose it because it is unnecessary. (16) 

Extinguishment of aboriginal title is often seen by native 
rights advocates as extinguishing an aspect of inherent rights to self- 


government and not just property rights. 


D. Aboriginal Title "Superseded by Law" 


Federal land claims policy attempts to address some but not 
all of the aboriginal title claims currently being asserted. For example, 
the federal government generally refuses to acknowledge the validity of 
aboriginal title claims in most of the Maritime provinces and parts of 
British Columbia, claiming that aboriginal title there has been "superseded 
by law." The government argues that the actions of successive governments, 
before and after Confederation, in opening up lands for settlement, 
granting lands by letters patent, granting rights to third parties and 
setting aside Indian reserve lands, had the effect of overriding and 


(16) Georges Erasmus, "Twenty Years of Disappointed Hopes," Introduction 
to Drum Beat, Anger and Renewal in Indian Country, Boyce Richardson, 
ed., Summerhill Press/The Assembly of First Nations, Toronto, 1989, at 
Dil /z 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


2a 


implicitly extinguishing aboriginal title in all lands other than Indian 
reserves. This position is one of the most highly disputed aspects of 
federal claims policy. This controversial view of how aboriginal title 
could be extinguished prior to the enactment of s. 35 of the Constitution 
Act, 1982 was recently supported by the B.C. Supreme Court case Del gamuukw 
v. The Queen (March 1991) and will be a major point of appeal. 

The concept of aboriginal title superseded by law is also 
reflected in one of the requirements imposed by the federal government for 
acceptance of a comprehensive claim for negotiation: that the claimant 
group establish not only traditional use and occupancy of the territory 
claimed but must also show continued use and occupation. The Sechelt Band 
and the Musqueam Band in British Columbia have had claims rejected because 
they could not do this. 

This requirement presents a number of problems for 
aboriginal claimants. It is not clear what degree of use by non-indigenous 
people is required to trigger rejection. It seems obvious that exclusive 
use and occupancy in the literal sense is not required, or else very few, 
if any, claims would be possible. There is no guidance on this point in 
the 1986 policy statement and some aboriginal people say that the require- 
ment for current use and occupancy is a recent innovation that was not part 
of the 1981 comprehensive claims policy statement, In All Fairness. 

The Sechelt Band has stated that this policy places bands 
located near urban centres at a particular disadvantage and argues that it 
penalizes aboriginal people who have tried to respect the law by respecting 
the contested title of non-indigenous people while seeking recognition of 
their own rights within the system. In a letter from the Sechelt Band 
Council to the Honourable William McKnight of 1 September 1988, the Band 
Council stated: 

We have traditionally complied with laws as they have 
been passed and done our best, as a people, to 
reconcile our own ways with those of our new 
neighbours... As a result, we Sechelts have withdrawn 
to those little pieces of land - formerly known as 
Indian reserves - as directed by the federal govern- 
ment. Now it would appear that we are to be severely 


penalized for having complied with the law. For 
example, we still hunt and fish, but we carry out these 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


22 


activities according to Canadian law, not to provoke 
disputes over the extent of our aboriginal rights. Is 
the federal government now saying that if we were to 
hunt, fish and otherwise occupy our traditional lands 
in defiance of law, our claim would be validated? 
Please ponder the implications of this curious and 
quite disgraceful position. 


E. Exclusion of Self-Government Agreements from Land Claims Agreements 


The 1986 statement of comprehensive claims policy provides 
that "a new feature of the policy will be to allow for negotiation of a 
broader range of self-government matters." The policy statement also 
provides, however, that self-government arrangements negotiated through 
claims settlements will not receive constitutional protection "unless a 
constitutional amendment to this effect is in force." This means that the 
government prefers to negotiate self-government arrangements separately 
from other matters in order to avoid entrenchment pursuant to s. 35(3) of 
the Constitution Act, 1982. This subsection provides that the recognition 
and affirmation of existing treaty rights in s. 35(1) includes "rights that 
now exist by way of land claims agreements or may be so acquired." 

The Final Agreements reached in the Yukon and the Northwest 
Territories are examples of how this aspect of claims policy has been 
implemented so far. They both provide for the negotiation of separate 
agreements on self-government. Delegated federal authority is contemplated 
and specific provision is made so that these self-government agreements 
shall not be construed as aboriginal and treaty rights within the meaning 
of section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982. Both claimant groups, 
however, Will be able to take advantage of any future constitutional 
amendments recognizing aboriginal self-government rights. 

The government has explained this aspect of its policy 
(reaffirmed by a Cabinet decision announced in February 1990) as maintain- 
ing equity between Indian groups with self-government arrangements 
negotiated either within or without the claims settlement process. In the 
absence of a constitutional amendment generally protecting self-government 
rights, the federal government argues that it would be unfair to allow some 
groups to have such protection just because they happened to have 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


Pay) 


negotiated their right to self-government through a claims settlement. 
However, it may be too late to avoid such inequity. A provincial court 
decision (Eastmain Band v. Gilpin) respecting the Cree-Naskapi (of Quebec) 
Act held that the self-government rights of the Crees under the Act, having 
been promised by the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement, were made 
constitutional by s. 35(3) and that "any change to the Natives' existing 
rights would be legal only if brought about by a constitutional amendment." 
From the aboriginal viewpoint, land and self-government are inseparable 
issues. Georges Erasmus, National Chief of the Assembly of First Nations, 
has said: 

Land, and jurisdiction over land, go hand and hand 

[sic]. We have been pressing for fair land settlement 

to provide the basis for an economically viable life 

for our people, but we have also insisted on our right 

to aboriginal self-government over that land. By this, 

we mean our right to exercise jurisdiction over our 

traditional lands, resources, and people. (17) 

Before the Standing Senate Committee on Aboriginal Peoples, 

National Chief Georges Erasmus suggested that federal officials were 
willing to agree to a reversal of this policy position in return for the 
cooperation of aboriginal people in permitting early debate of the Meech 
Lake Accord in the Manitoba Legislature (Minutes of Proceedings and 
Evidence, Issue No. 8:81). 


CONCLUSION 


A number of fundamental differences between government and 
native parties' approaches to land claims issues have led to conflicts over 
many elements of claims policy. For example, from the indigenous 
perspective, the existence of continuing aboriginal title is not in doubt 
and requires a settlement on the future relations between the parties on a 
government-to-government basis (in the sense of inter-Canadian govern- 
ments). The federal government acknowledges the possibility of existing 
aboriginal title for the purpose of claims negotiations but argues against 


A) eebic. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


24 


it in court. Though the federal government acknowledged, in its 1986 
revised statement of claims policy, that comprehensive claims settlements 
are more than mere real estate transactions, it regards aboriginal title as 
a property issue to be dealt with largely independently of self-government 
issues; aboriginal claimant groups are seen as private landholders of 
settlement lands rather than as government landholders. Further, the 
federal government insists on extinguishment of aboriginal title throughout 
any traditional lands not retained under aboriginal control by the 


settlement agreement. 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


STATUS OF NATIVE LAND CLAIMS 
(based on information received from the | 
Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development) 


COMPREHENSIVE CLAIMS (AS OF JULY 1990) 


Settled Claims 


- Cree and Inuit (Quebec) 
- Naskapi (Quebec ) 
- Inuvialuit (NWT) 


Claims in Negotiation 


- Nisga's Tribal Council 
- Labrador Inuit Association 
Conseil Attikamek Montagnais 

Dene Nation/Metis Assoc. of NWT 
Tungavik Federation of Nunavut 
Council for Yukon Indians 


Accepted Claims 

Rejected Claims 

Claims Under Review 

Action Suspended at Request of Claimants 


Anticipated Claims 


18) 


10 


LIBRARY OF PARLIAMENT 
BIBLIOTHEQUE DU PARLEMENT 


it 


SPECIFIC CLAIMS (AS OF 30 MARCH 1990) 


Claims Resolved: 


Claims in 


Claims in 


- Settlements Achieved 

- Rejected 

- Administrative Referral 
Closed File | 


Total Claims Resolved: 


Process: 


- Settlement Process 

- Approved Negotiating Mandate 
- Development of Mandate 

- Under Justice Review 

- Under Specific Claims Review 


Total Claims in Process: 


Other Status 
- Suspended 
- Under Litigation 


- Claimant reassessment 


Total Claims in Other Status 


Total Band Claims Submitted to Date: 


44 
44 
69 
48 


205 


130 


275 


on 
Ze 
55 


98 


578 


