3 1761 11892533 8 


INTO 


* 


; see ir VOLUMES 2 se): Bsa ae 
aie or ENVIRONMENTAL DIVEN GOS oo cont 
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT... | 
Co iN Te GRENT OUTDOORS (04, 
Be tin teal €, Bo oe "MINISTRY OF : ros ‘ : 
ei i _ ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY ee ear ay 
ae ee OMAN. 2 


VOLUME 5. 


ENVIRONMENTAL LIVING: 


_ PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT... | 


IN THE GREAT OUTDOORS | 


For additional copies of this volume, contact: 
_ Ministry of Environment and Energy 
135 St Clair Avenue West : 
- Suite 100 cS 
T Tetonté Ontario — 
- M4V1P5 


| ISBN 0-7778-1068-9 (5 v. set) 
___ ISBN 0-7778-1073-5 (v. 5) 


RIBS 2319E 


STABLE OF CONTENT sm 
ENVIRONMENTAL LIVING: 


PROT ECTING THE ENVIRONMENT ae 


‘Campfires and Cookouts 
Getting The Campsite Ready. 
’ More for You to Read 


Could Swimming in Your Lake. 

Make You Sick? 

Why Swimmers Get Sick 

You Can Keep Your Beach Swimmable . 

And ... Special Advice for Farmers (and Cottagers) 

-Other “Bugs” that Bother Swimmers 
Giardia 

“Swimmer’s Itch” 

Leeches (Bloodsuckers) 

More for You to Read 


Great Lakes! The Feta Mussel Story 
These Clams'are Open for Business 
Small in Stature, These Clams Have Muscle 
Keeping a Lid on Zebra Mussels 
What Boaters Can Do 
Motor Maintenance 
Get the Hull Story 
What Fishing Enthusiasts Can Do 
More for You to Réad © 


IN THE GREAT Ourpoors 


Boating and the Environment 
What to Do About Your Drinking Water Supply 


- What to Do with Waste Waters 
Boating with the Environment in eames 


Filling the Gas Tank 


. Zebra Mussels in the Limelight 


< . More for You to Read 


OW mMmmMDmMOMAaN 


Goin’ Fishing: 


Should You Eat the Catch of 1 the Day? 


Fish Are Monitored for Contaminants 


Which Species Are Tested? 


Good Eating 
Mercury and DDT 


_ PCBs and Mirex . 


Dioxins and Furans 


- Should You Eat “Mutant” Fish? 


More for You to Read 


More for You to Read 


ABOUT “ENVIRONMENTAL LIVING” 


ould you like to do something to see thes environment — but do you feel 
overwhelmed by the magnitude of the problems? Do you wonder if your efforts as an individual can 


make a difference? 


Take heart. Ute in mene Living” was written for all those people who want to - 


protect the environment but need to know how and where to get started. 


The pages of “Environmental Living” describe how to conduct your everyday activities 
in ways that are environmentally friendly. It’s a “primer” on environmental topics that affect people who 
live in the city, people who live in the country and people who spend time in the great outdoors. 


Everything is explained in simple, easy-to-understand, easy-to-remember language. 


_ Do you want to know how to cut down on the garbage you generate? How to starta 
compost heap? How to drive your car to improve its energy efficiency, lengthen its life and reduce the 


pollution it creates? “Environmental Living” shows you how easy it is to do all these things. 


Do you live in the country — or are you thinking about buying a cottage or rural 
property? Do you want to learn how to look after your septic tank system? How. to test for bacteria in _ 
your well water? ee to build an environmentally ya dock? ’ ‘Environmental Living” looks at all 


‘these topics, and more. 


Do you spend a lot of time in the great outdoors? Do you want to know how to avoid 
insects? What to do about zebra ratabel infestations i in the Great Lakes? If it ‘Ss safe to eat oan fish you 


caught? “Environmental Living” has the answers. 


Living environmentally doesn’t mean you have to become an environmental expert. 


You don’t have to Spend a lot of money or time. Nor do you have to make wholesale changes to your life. 


No single, dramatic act oN: one person can save this ee But all of us, doing a lot of 


simple, cornmonsense things, can save it —a little bit at a time. > 


> -y- 


re 


> 


“Environmental Living” is an unusual concept in 
publishing. It is one book, but it is published in five 


separate sections.. You, the reader, decide which 


topics you want to read about, and you need order 


only those sections. 


This means “Environmental Living”. uses less 


paper, and you, the reader, don’t. have to wade 


through pages and pages of information you don’t 


need. 


To order any section of “Environmental Living”, 


contact the Ministry of Environment and Energy by 
telephoningthe Public Information Centre in Toronto 


at (416) 323-4321 or toll-free at 1-800-565-4923. 


wv 


Sa Bo! wT wv 


WHAT YOU LL-FENDeIN: 
“ENVIRONMENTAL LIVING 


-.. Environmental Living: ° 
Protecting the Environment ... in Your Home 
There’s information of interest to everyone in this” i: 
section, which has chapters about handling waste, 


non-toxic cleaning, how to drive to minimize 


pollution, and what you can do about global issues 


* such as acid rain. and global warming, . . 


Each section of “Environmental Living” consists of - 


several chapters that share a common theme. Every 
section and chapter is self-explanatory but, as you 
read them, you may come across references to other 


sections or chapters that can give you related or more 


detailed information. : Those sections and chapters * 


will be referred to by their complete titles, to make it 


easy for you to order that section. 


* .“What.a Load of Garbage!” The 3Rs - 
(Describes the 3Rs and what to do with your — 
garbage); | 

* The 3Rs, Take Two: Little Things. Mean a Lot 
(Quick tips on practising the 3Rs); 

* Cleaning Without ‘Chemicals: Recipes for a Non- 
. Toxic Planet | : 
(Making your own non-toxic cleaning products); | 

* Cleaning Without Chemicals, The Sequel: The 
Non-Toxic Cleaning Kit (Quick cleaning tips); 

¢ Not Down the Drain: What to do With Household 


Hazardous Waste 


_* Water, Water Everywhere 


(How to conserve water); 
° Your Car and the Drive for a Healthy pe ea 
(How your driving habits affect the SER ) 
* Good News about Acid Rain 


. © Global Warming: The Gloves are Off 


At the end of each chapter is a list of publications . 


you may want to read to get even more detail or | 


technical background information; there’s an 


explanation of where and how to obtain copies of — 


those publications. 


Here’s.a list of chapters in ae section (a descrip- 


tion of the chapter’s contents follows, in brackets). + 


(What you can do about global warming). > 


WHAT YOU'LL FIND IN 
“ENVIRONMENTAL LIVING” 


Environmental Living: 


Protecting the Environment .. 
Yard and Garden 


. in Your 


Do you want environmental tips you can put into: 


practice in your backyard? Read these. 


* A Down-to-Earth Guide to Composting and 


Vermicomposting 
TAN Grassroots Look at Your Lawn. 


(Growing a lawn that looks after itself); 


Those Pesky Bugs! And Other Small Hazards of 


the Great Outdoors (Controlling insets); 
Using Insecticides Safely 
Too Close for Comfort: What to Do About 


Nuisance Animals. » 


| Environmental Living: - 
Protecting the Environment ... 
or Buying Your Dream Cottage . 


If you are buying a cottage or rural property, read 
these. 7 | 
* Before You Take the Plunge: Rural Life is Different 
(Adjusting to.country living); 
Bylaws and Buildings: Unravelling the Red Tape 
_ (Building and zoning laws and permits); 
big a Well to Tap.into Groundwater Supplies 
- (How to construct a well); . 
This is a Story about Sewage. Skip It and noe Il 
Be Sorry 


(Disposing of sewage when there’s no municipal 


sewer system); 


Landscaping You Can Live With 


(Landscaping to protect and blend into the envi-- 


~ ronment and to attract wildlife). + ; 


when Building 


Environmental Living: 
Protecting the Environment ... at the Cottage 
Water quality (both groundwater and lake water) is 
emphasized i in this section. _ 
: Testing the Waters: Bacteria and Your Pas 
Water 
(Getting safe ae water from your roll 
Every Cottager’s Covert Operation: Maintaining 


that Septic Tank System (How to run your septic 


_. tank system trouble-free for years); 


Keeping Aquatic Plants Under Control for Boating 
and Swimming 
Stop Old Age from Ruining Your Lake 
_ (Avoiding eutrophication of your lake); 

All the Dirt on Shoreline Alterations 

(“Do’s and don’ts” of changing the natural 


shoreline); 


» Gimme Shelter: Building Docks and Boathouses . 


(Environmentally friendly structures). * 


Environmental Living: 
Protecting the Environment ... 
Great Outdoors 


in the 


This section will interest outdoors enthusiasts. 

* Campfires and Cookouts 
(Fire safety); | 
Could Swimming in Your Lake Make You Sick? _ 
(Diseases and parasites’ that affect swimmers); 
Great Lakes! The Zebra Mussel Story: 
(The. spread of zebra mussels in Ontario’s © 
waterways); | 
Boating and the Environment 
Goin’ Fishing: Should You Eat the Catch of the | 
Day? (Contaminants and the consumption of 


sport fish). + 


ae + ~~ “~- 


Everyone enjoys a fire when they're camping or cot- 

taging. But be careful.. It’s all too easy for a campfire 

to get out of control. Most forest fires aren't caused 

by natural events, such as lightning — they’re acci- 
dentally started by people. 

_ Open fires cause air pollution. Smoke and odors 
from fires can be irritating to people’ s eyes and can 
aggravate breathing problems. The Ministry of 
Environment, and Energy investigates air pollution 
complaints and can take action under The 


Environmental Protection Act. | 


Getting The Campsite Ready | 


* Choose the site carefully. Burn only ina cleared 
area, on mineral (sand and. gravel) soil. Don’t 
locate your fire where trees or rooflines overhang 
the burn site, or near firewood, lumber, buildings, 
decks, or fuel tanks. | 

* Never start a campfire in the middle of a hot, dry, 
windy day — the risk is great that the fire could 

‘get out of control, or that sparks could start an 


unwelcome fire. Burn only on cool, damp, calm 


days. (Mornings and evenings are probably the 


best times to take advantage of these conditions.) 


* Don’t burn on rainy or foggy days — the moisture 


in the air stops smoke from dispersing. 

* Plan a campfire that’s a manageable size. 

* Burn only dry materials. Don’t burn your garbage. 

° Don’t-use wood that has been treated with chem- 
ical preservatives (such as creosote). Don’t put 
petroleum products, plastics or rubber in the fire, 
either. All these things may, when burned, release 
dangerous toxic chemicals. The smoke or fumes 


may contain cancer-causing agents. 


* Don’t throw aerosol cans into a fire — they'll explode! 


wv 


> a As D4 oa 


CAMPFIRES AND 
COOKOUTS 


At BS) ins allow anything into the immediate fire area 


that could ignite or catch fire. That includes your _ 


own clothing — some synthetic materials are. 


‘highly inflammable. — 
* Plan to stay with the fire at all times until it’s com- 
| pletely extinguished and drowned. . 
* Be ready to. clean up properly. Ashes and coals . 
should be put in a metal container and soaked 
with water till they're cold, then buried i ina be of 


‘ mineral soil. 


More for You to Read 


To order the Ministry of Environment and Energy . 


publications in the list below, telephone the Public 


Information Centre in Toronto at (416) 323-4321 or 
toll-free at 1-800-565-4923. Please use the Public 


- Information Bank System (PIBS) number to order ~ 


_ Before you burn grass and debris ... 


publications. 

To order the Ministry of Natural Resdanees publi- 
cations in the list below, telephone the Public Infor- 
mation Centre in Toronto at (416) 314-1553. 
Brochure. Ministry 
of Natural Resources. 5 pp. ISBN 0-7729-5716-9. | 


' Open Burning. Information sheet. Ministry of 


6 


Environment and Energy. PIBS 631b. 


Protect your forest home or summer cottage. Brochure. 


’ Ministry of Natural Resources. 
ISBN 0-7729-5719-3. ¥ 


COULD SWIMMING IN Your LAKE 
| MAKE YOU Sick? 


“Going for a swim” is a ritual of summer. Whether 
you're at the cottage for the season or just visiting the 
beach for the day, swimming is good healthy fun. 

; But can that swim make you sick? How do you 


know to “come on in — the water's fine”? And what 


can you do to keep water from becoming polluted? 


Read on to find out. 


Why Swimmers 


. Get Sick 
WHY BEACHES 
ARE POSTED... 


You can become ill after 
swimming in a lake if the 
water contains high levels 
of bacteria, particularly 
fecal coliform and fecal 
streptococci. 

‘As you swim, the bac- 
teria invades your body, 
and you can get gastroen- | 
flu), 


dysentery, diarrhea, or 


teritis (stomach 
infections of the skin, eye, ear, nose and throat. 

So you arrive at the local beach, and it’s “been 
posted” — there are warning signs telling you not to 
swim. Why? It’s usually because fecal coliform is 
present in densities that can endanger your health, 


according to your local health unit. 


Fecal coliform (FC) can be measured in water sam- 
ples; it is counted and reported as the number of 


organisms counted in 100 millilitres of water. In 


Ontario, the Ministry of Environment and Energy - 


and the Ministry of Health have issued a minimum 
quality guideline: “Safe” water must contain less 
than 100 FC in 100 millilitres of water. Local medical - 
officers of health may apply even tougher standards 
than that. ae 

(To give you an idea how strict a 100 FC limit is, con- 


sider most other provinces set their guidelines at 200 - 


_ FC. There’s less than a 1.5 per cent chance of stomach 


disorders with 200 FC in 100 millilitres of water.) 
When the FC concentration decreases to a point 

that your local medical officer of health Cone ders safe, 

the beach will be re-opened. This can take a few days. 


How does the bacteria get into the water? Fecal 


coliform and streptococci are found in the stool of | ~ 


almost all warm-blooded animals. When the stool 
washes into lake water, it raises the water’s bacterial 
level; contaminating it. Ley: 

Obviously, it can occur naturally. Pet and wildlife 
droppings may wash into water, and large numbers 
of water birds may foul the beach. 


It may come from farms — manure may drain into 


streams or drainage ditches. 


But mostly, the bacteria comes from people, and 


gets into the water from sewer overflows, badly con- 


_structed sanitary sewers, illegally connected base- 


ment bathrooms, inadequately treated sewage, faulty _ 
septic tank systems, grey water from boats, or from 


stormwater runoff. Contamination is so common. . 


-that in some Ontario cities, beaches are posted asa ° 


matter of routine after any heavy rainstorm. — 


And the same weather that sends you heading for — 


“the beach, does. wonders for bacteria. The hot 


weather encourages them to multiply even more. 


eR a x wT Tt 


COULD SWIMMING 
MAKE YOU 


SE 
You Can Keep Your Beach Swimmable’ 


‘Rainfall rurioff happens when heavy rain or melting 


snow “flushes” the land around a lake, carrying con- 

taminants into the water. The contamination shows 

up from 12. to 48 hours after the precipitation. You 

can help prevent coliform and streptococci from 

reaching those waters. 

¢ Pet waste, believe it or not, is a big source of bac- 
: teria in storm water. Observe your local “stoop ‘n’ 

scoop” bylaws. - 


* Cut down on the amount of water you use. 


Sewage treatment plants sometimes have prob- | 


lems coping with the sheer volume of water that 
must be treated. Less wasted water means less 
likelihood of untreated or poorly treated sewage 


getting into lakes and rivers. 


* Adding a new washroom? Make sure it’s con- 


“nected properly to sanitary sewer pipes. If you’ re 
using a septic tank, be sure it can handle the extra 


materials. 


¢ Adjust your eavestroughs to carry rainfall onto 


your lawn — that will reduce the amount of rain 


water going directly into sewers. . 


And ... Special Advice for Farmers 
_ (and Cottagers) 


fee livestock away from streams. 


. * Make a point of containing waste materials moe 


. feedlots and manure Piles. 
* Work out the exact nutrient requysemege for your 


crops. Don’t over-fertilize. 


Ra 


ST vT a vt 


IN YOUR LAKE 
SICK? 


Put in “strips” of vegetation to act as a buffer 
between your cropland and natural waterways, as 
‘well as municipal drains. (Vegetation also cuts 
down on soil erosion. ) ; 


‘As well; leave natural vegetation between your 


house and waterbodies, to absorb runoff and filter . 


stormwater. | 


Be sure your septic tank system is big enough to 


meet your needs. Maintain it properly. Older sys- = 


tems may not conform to current legislated stan-— 
dards and may need to be replaced; be sure your 


septic system 1 1s current. 


Plant grass over your septic tank tile pe and let 


_ the sun and wind do their bit to help evaporation. 


Other Bigs ” that Bother Swimmers 
Giardia 


Also known as “beaver fever” or “the eee burps’, 
giardia is a common parasite that enters your 
stomach as a cyst, attaching itself to the wall of the . 
intestine. It causes diarrhea, nausea, buildup: of gas 


and vomiting; if left untreated, it can continue for 


‘more than a year. 


Giardia is picked up from direct contact with: 


human or animal feces, or from poorly treated 


drinking water contaminated by feces. Don’t swim in - 


a pond or water body where beavers and. muskrats 


live; they defecate in the water and can quickly con- 


 taminate it. 


At the cottage, or when you're camping, canoeing, 


_ or-hiking, make sure you dispose of sewage properly. 


CouLp SWIMMING IN YOUR LAKE 1 
Biete: YOU Sick? | 


“Swimmer's Itch” 
~ Swimmer’s itch is a Varner: infection v ‘S Hnsed 


by the tiny colourless flatworm larva called schisto- 


some cercariae. These larvae usually prey on fresh- - 


water snails and: waterfowl. When they penetrate a 
swimmer’s skin, they: die, leaving an itching, raised, 
red spot that lasts several days 
‘measures: Peat 5 
* Immediately after swimming, rub down briskly 
with a towel. The larvae can’t penetrate the skin 
‘until the water evaporates. 
Or, take a freshwater shower right after swimming. 
.Swim in deeper water. 


concentrate the larvae in the poate: 


Leeches (Bloodsuckers) 
Leeches are flat worm-like animals that usually feed 


- on worms, snails, insect larvae and other small 


‘aquatic animals. Sometimes, you'll find one attached . 


to you. 


They live in shallow, protected ne (where 


they’ re concealed by aquatic plants) or under stones, 


logs and other debris. They're strong swimmers and 


are attracted to water disturbances around docks and 


swimming areas. 

_You’re most likely to come into contact with them 
on hot summer days. (In winter they burrow vas 
just below the frost line.) 

To keep leeches in check, cottagers should keep 
their beaches clean. Rémove debris, stones, logs and 
some of the plant life where the water is warm and 


shallow. 


Simple prevention ° 


Onshore winds tend to - 


You can also trap leeches in heavily infested areas, 
Use a metal can with a reusable lid, drilled with small 
holes matching the size of leeches typical for your 
area. Bait the trap with raw meat., Put it in shallow 


water. When the leeches feed, they’Il get bigger. They'll 


be trapped in the can and you can destroy them. 


More for You to Read 


To order the Ministry of Environment and’ Energy 


publications in the list below, telephone the Public 
Information Centre in Toronto at (416) 323-4321 or 
toll-free ‘at 1-800-565-4923. Please use the Public — 


. Information Bank System (PIBS) number to order 


publications. 


Inquiries about the Environment Canada publica 


_ tions in the list below should be directed to the toll-. 


free number 1-800-668-6767; or call the Toronto office 
at (416) 973-6467. | 


. Clean Water - Life Depends on It! Fact sheet. 


Environment Canada, Conservation and Protection. 
Water 3. ISBN 0-662-17338-4. : 


CURB (Clean Up Rural Beaches) Program. - 


Information sheet. Ministry of Environment and 


Energy. PIBS 1665b. 


Water - Nature’s Magician. Fact sheet. Environment 


‘Canada, Conservation and Protection. Water 1. 


ISBN 0-662-18080-1. - 
What is Giardia? Pamphlet. Ministry of Health. 
ISBN 0-7729-2791-X. 


Why Beaches are Posted. pe Ministry of . 
Environment and Energy. PIBS 1550b. + 


GREAT LAKES! | 
THE ZEBRA MUSSEL STORY 


If you swim, fish, or boat in the Great Lakes, you've 
probably come across zebra mussels. If you haven't, 
it’s probably just a matter of time before you do. 
Zebra mussels have become major pests in the Great 
Lakes since they were accidentally introduced to the 
chain of water bodies around 1986. They're also 
expanding their territory — they’ve been found in 
lakes in the Muskokas and Kawarthas as well as in 


* Ontario’s two canal systems. 


These Clams are Open for Business 


You never find just one zebra mussel — a colony 
numbers in the tens of thousands. They cling to 
underwater surfaces such as boat hulls, motors, 
buoys, docks, water intake pipes and screens, rocks 
and reefs. By the end of the boating season, your 
boat may be dragging in the water as it carries thou- 


sands of zebra mussels along for the ride. 


Zebra mussels are freshwater molluscs (clams) 


‘and have brown, yellow and white stripes. They 
live for up to five years and grow up to five centime- 
_tres (two inches). They’re incredibly prolific — a 
female adult can lay tens of thousands of eggs. . The 
eggs hatch to form larvae, or veligers, which are 
microscopic until they attach-themselves to a hard 
surface and-begin forming a shell. That’s when 


problems begin. 


Maximum 
size - 
(cm) 


Small in Stature, These Clams Have Muscle 


Colonies of zebra mussels have been found — 
clinging to municipal - water intake pipes, pipes for 
power plants and industrial pipes. In one case, zebra 
mussels took up half the volume of a pipe carrying 


water from the Detroit River to an industrial plant in 


~ Windsor in 1989. And in Michigan that same year, 


several tonnes of mussels were scraped off the outer 
screens of a power pai every single pe throughout 
the summer. Riese 

Mussels can damage the engines of boats. Their 


sheer collective weight increases drag and fuel con- 


sumption. They can clog your boat's cooling system. 


GREAT LAKES! 
-- THE ZEBRA MUSSEL STORY 


Fish and mussels don’t mix — at least, not where 


habitat.is concerned. Mussels can ruin spawning | 


shoals for sport fish and drive the light-sensitive 
walleye into deeper waters. | Wee age 

Swimmers will find mussels’ sharp shells cut their 
feet. And decomposing mussels washed up on shore 
have a terrible smell. 

Since 1986, when they probably came over from 
Europe in a freighter’s ballast tank, mussels have 
| spread throughout the Great Lakes. . They‘ve been 
found in Lake St. Clair, Lake Erie, the Welland Canal, 
Lake Ontario (near Burlington, Mississauga, Bath and 
; Picton), in Green Bay of Lake Michigan, in Duluth 


- Harbor of Lake Superior, in the Niagara River and in 


the St. Lawrence River (near Prescott and Cornwall). 


More recently, they’ve moved into other popular 
boating areas such as Lake Simcoe.and the Trent 


Severn Waterway and the Rideau Canal. 


Keeping a Lid on Zebra Mussels | 


How are zebra mussels spread? Mostly by people. 


_ The microscopic veligers, especially, can be carried far 


- afield by unwitting carriers. Here’s a list of ways you 
might never think you'd be spreading zebra mussels 
- inland: : 
* in baitfish buckets 
on boat hulls, in engines and ballast tanks 
on float plane pontoons 
on fishing gear 
on scuba diving equipment 


in boat trailer frames. 


It’s likely zebra mussels will continue to spread, 
hitching rides with recreational boaters and anglers, 
unless people are careful not to transport them. (It 
was once thought that parts of Lake Superior and — 
lakes in the Precambrian Shield were not warm _ 


enough, or didn’t contain enough calcium, for zebra 


- mussels to survive in those waters. However, mus- 


sels are beating the odds — they have turned up in | 
lakes containing those lower calcium levels.) 

A number of provincial agencies are involved in a 
zebra mussel program that includes research, moni- 
toring and studies of possible control measures. But 
control measures may well start with the people who 
are the most likely to transport and spread zebra 
mussels to new areas — the recreational users of the 
Great Lakes. 


What Boaters Can Do 
Motor Maintenance 
Flush the motor by running it at high speed for 10 
minutes, at least ine a week in summer and once 
a week in spring and fall. ) : 
Tip the outboard up and out when it’s not in use 
‘so water can drain and mussels can’t become 
attached to it. Check cooling water inlets and 
spaces around the propeller; remove mussels 
every time. Watch when you start up — is there 


less cooling water being discharged? 


Pull out screens, check intakes regularly and clean 


and replace components. 
Make it a habit to watch temperature gatiges. If 
températures seem to be increasing, check the 


cooling water intake hoses. 


wv Dis Bd vt wv wv oon vv Vv 


GREAT: LAKES! - 
THE ZEBRA MUSSEL STORY 


- Get the Hull Story — 


* Inspect your boat often during the season and 


More rs You to Read 


To order the Ministry of Natural Resources Sie 
tions in the list below, telephone: the Public Infor- 
mation Centre i in eee at (416) 314-1177. 


scrape zebra mussels off regularly. If your boat's 
hull seems grainy, veligers have attached them- - 


selves to your boat. Get them off using hot (40° 


- Celsius orl 10° Fahrenheit) water. Zebra Mussels Boater Ss Guide. Pamphlet. Ministry Otve 
¢ Haul your boat out of the water and onto a rack Natural Resources. ISBN 0-7729- 8708-4. 
when you're not using it. Zebra Mussels: What You Should Know. 


¢ When you take your boat out of the water, ae Pamphlet. Ministry of Natural Resources, 
the propulsion system, bilges, bait well, coolers. ISBN 0-7729-7503-5. + 
and anchor locker. Flush everything with hot tap 
water. 
‘© Wash the outside of the hull before leaving the 
infested lake. A mild chlorine solution: of 15 millil- © 
itres (one tablespoon) of bléach in 4.5 litres (one 
gallon) of water will kill veligers, though not adult 
mussels. / . 
* When your boat's out of the water, a few hot dry - 
days in the sun will kill adult zebra mussels. You'll 


still need to scrape. 


What Fishing Enthusiasts Can Do 


* There could be more than baitfish in that bucket 
you're hauling. Veligers — mussel larvae — are 

invisible to the human eye. Don’t carry baitfish 
from the Great Lakes to another water body. 

Don’t carry water from one lake to.another. 

Wash down your fishing gear using hot Water ora 


mild chlorine solution like those used by boaters. 


Putting the boat in the water is a sure sign of summer 
— and boating is becoming more popular with every 
season. Ontario’s lakes can see some heavy traffic i in 

_the warm-weather months! 


Some vessels may haye a galley with a sink for dish- 


washing. Many even have toilets. Power boats carry — 


~- gasoline and oil. How can boaters protect the quality 


of the lake water from potential contamination? . 


What to Do About Your Drinking 
Water Supply 


Your freshwater tank should be filled from a safe 
‘supply, such as municipally treated water. The tank 
itself should be disinfected. To do this, drain it and 
refill it with water — for each litre of water, add 5 
millilitres of household bleach (or, Ee teaspoon per 
gallon).. Leave this in.the tank at least overnight, 
drain and flush with safe water. 

_ Clean the tank this way twice each month: 

If you suspect the safety of the water that you put 
in the tank, you can purify it by chlorinating it. Add 
0.1 millilitres (two drops) of five per cent unscented’ 
household bleach to each litre of water when you fill 
the tank. Double the bleach if the water looks 
3 cloudy. ne . 

You can’t keep treated water ficetnitely. Water 


that’s been treated with chlorine is good for a few 


days, refrigerated. Distilled water should be used in 


two days. 


BOstue perme 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT | 


- Boaters in Ontario waters 


“must comply with. provin- 


_ shore-based pump-out. 


_ What to Do with 
Waste Waters 


cial regulations regarding 
All boaters 
“black” 


water (from the ‘toilet) 


waste waters. 


must contain 


until they discharge it at 
an approved. pump-out 
facility. Depending on the type of vessel, some boaters 
must also contain and correctly discharge ” grey” 
water (from cooking, washing and from the bilge). 
You can’t use a portable toilet on board unless ‘it’s 
secured to the boat and adapted to a deck fitting’for a 
‘The toilet must.be con- 


_ structed of structurally sound material, be correctly 


installed and be of adequate capacity for its expected 
use. Waste must be stored in holding tanks or incin- 
eration systems. 

_ All marinas in Ontario, including-yacht ae must 
provide facilities to pump out waste. (They must also 


provide litter containers for boaters.) 


BOATING | 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT 


Boating with the Environment in Mind 
Boating means different things to different people. 
Some people prefer “low impact” boats — canoes, 

- sailboats, rowboats, or quiet, low-horsepower power. 
boats. Others prefer large-horsepower, high-speed 
power boats; keep in mind these use a lot of fuel and 
can be very: noisy. The kind of boat you choose — 
whether you rent one for a weekend or buy one to 
use at your cottage — will certainly puta different 
flavor on your recreational exPeten and those of 


people ees 


Filling the Gas Tank 


Fuel spills — even minor ones — from accidental 
handling do affect the water. 

Gasoline ee oil affect micro-organisms, including 
phytoplankton (algae) and zooplankton (fish larvae 
and small crustaceans); they are the main food source 
for fish. 7 


Normal gasoline exhaust and oil discharges have CAS 
little effect on the aquatic environment. It’s more ~: | 
Essence 


important to be careful when refuelling. Fill a 


portable tank well away from the water. To refuel on 

board: ; re 

* Moor the boat securely. Shut off engines and put 
passengers and portable tanks ashore. 
Close all windows and hatches. Don’t smoke; 
extinguish all open flames. Don’t use electrical 
switches. | ; | 
Put the nozzle all the way in the filler pipe. Fill 
carefully to avoid blow- back. Wipe up spills. 
Don't overfill. Allow some space for gas to expand — 
inside the tank in hot weather. 
Turn on the blower for at ieaee five minutes. 


Check for vapor and odors. 


f 


BOATING 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT 


_~ Prohibition on of 
_ a power-driven 

in excess of (in 
- example) 9 kilometres oD 
__per hour over the ground 


- avessel with a motor - 
- larger than the posted — 
maximum kilowatts 
(7.5 KW is equivalent 
tol hp.) oe 


Prohibition on operating 


Prohibition on of 


the purpose of towing a 
__ person on water skis, a 

’ surf-board or any such 

equipment = 


| _ the waters to whi 
prohibition appli 
_ the side of the bounde 
_ to which it applies 


ar 


erating 
_ a power-driven vessel for — 


_ Outer directional rings 
__ indicate the boundary of 


Nn 


Zebra Mussels in the Limelight 


-. Zebra mussels are literally a growing problem in the 


Great Lakes. and in some of our inland lakes. For — 
information on how boaters can combat the spread of 
these tiny clams, read “Great Lakes! The Zebra 
Mussel Story”. 


More for You to Read 


To order the Ministry of Environment and Energy 
publications in the list below, telephone the Public 
Information Centre in Toronto at (416) 323-4321 or 
toll-free at 1-800-565-4923. Please use the Public: 
Information Bank System (PIBS) number to order 
publications. 


To order the Ministry of Natural Resources publica- 


A tions in the list below, telephone. the Public Infor- 


mation Centre in Toronto at (416) 314-1177. 


Boating Regulations and Information. Booklet. 
Ministry of Natural Resources. ISSN 0840-8521. 


Don’t Rock the Boat (10 Tips on Better Boating). 


Brochure. Ministry of Natural Resources. 


ISBN 0-7729-5776-2. 


Marine Pump-Out Stations. Booklet. Ministry of 
Environment and Energy. ISBN 0-7729-5714-2. 
PIBS 591b. + 


aa -y- 


Are you Bianning on “goin’ fishing” 2? With more 
than 260,000 freshwater lakes in Ontario, you can 
take your pick of places to cast your line and catch 


your dinner! 


You may hesitate to stoke the fire and bring out © 


- the skillet, though, because you've heard that fish can 
contain contaminants such as mercury and dioxins. 


How can you be sure your catch is safe to eat? 


Fish Are Monitored for Contaminants 


The Ministry of Environment and Energy and the 
Ministry of Natural-Resources jointly. take samples of, 
and also retest, fish from more than 1,500 Ontario 
lakes. The tests monitor contaminant levels in sport 
fish and the data can be used to advise anglers how 


much fish is safe ‘to eat. 


How are lakes chosen for the sport fish contami-. 


nant monitoring program? Lakes are selected for at | 


least one of these reasons: They're popular angling 
areas; they're a major local. food. source; a probable 
source of pollution is nearby. ” . 

_ You can ask to have your lake tested, although not 
every lake suggested will be chosen. To nominate 
your lake, write to either ministry at the district office 


“nearest that lake. 


The monitoring program has been carried out: 


since the 1960s, when people became concerned. 


about the effects of DDT (an insecticide) on fish. 
Next, testing for mercury began in 1969. Today, the 
monitoring program can test for more than 60 con- 


taminants, including PCBs, dioxin and mirex. 


a 


-_ prepare the biannually 
_updated “Guide to Eating 


16 


> 


GOIN” FISHING: 
SHOULD You EAT THE CATCH Om bass Day? 


The results are used to 


GUIDE 


TO EAT 
ONTARIO POR "ORE RSH™ 


Ontario Sport Fish’, pre- 
pared and distributed by 
both the Ministry of 
Environment and Energy 
the | 


Natural Resources. 


and Ministry of 
Tier 


In chart 


guide is free. : : 
form, it idenhies the lake tested;-the fish types tested _ 


from that lake, which contaminants the fish were 
tested for, the size of the fish tested; the guide offers 


advice on how much of that fish is safe to eat. 


How much fish you can eat depends on another 


important factor — how frequently you eat fish. The > 
guide has a secondary table that will help you take 


that into account. 


5) ov 


os 


-~- 


Ae GOIN’ FISHING: 
SHOULD YOU EAT.THE CATCH OF THE Day?: 


Which Species Are Tested a 


Not every fish species in a lake is tested. Testing one 


species can indicate the likely test results for another. . 


' For example, walleye (yellow pickerel) and northern 
pike are often tested instead of other sport fish of the 
same size but positioned lower down the food chain. 
Walleye and pike are more likely to contain higher 
levels of mercury — they’re the top predators, feeding 
on smaller fish and absorbing mercury from them. 
Testing the top predators, then, reveals the highest 
mercury level likely to be found in fish in that lake. If 


low levels are found in the predators, it’s probably 


not meceeedty to test ak other species. 


Certain species, euch; as salmon, lake trout, brown 
trout and smelt, contain high fat accumulations. 
Organic contaminants — such as PCBs and mirex, 
which are described later in this chapter — tend to 


accumulate in fatty tissue. So fish with high fat levels 


are chosen for testing. If they don’ t contain excessive - 


levels of contaminants, then less-fatty fish from the- 


same lake probably don’t need to be tested. 


| 7 Good Eating | 
Keep in mind that when fish contain organic contam- . 
inants (such as PCBs and mirex) the only part of the 
fish you should cook and eat is the boneless, Sanless 
dorsal (the area along the spine under the dorsal fin) 
fillet. Also; women of childbearing age and children 
younger than 15 years old should never eat any con- 
taminated fish. * 


Here’s a look at the major contaminants. 


Mercury and DDT 


Mercury and DDT were the first substances to be 
tested under the fish monitoring program; mercury 
contamination is the main reason for imposing con- 
sumption restrictions on Ontario sport fish today. 
Mercury is a naturally occurring substance:. It’s’a 


metal which occurs in low levels throughout Ontario 


-in air, water, rocks, soil and plant and animal matter. 


“Mercury was once widely used in industry, but large- 


scale use was stopped in the 1960s after high levels 


were found in fish from Lake St. Clair and the 


English-Wabigoon hee 


GOIN’ FISHING: 
SHOULD YOU EAT. THE CATGH OF THE Day? 


In Japan, where incidents of mercury poisoning | 


were documented, people whose bodies accumulated 


large amounts of mercury were affected by loss of co-’ 


ordination and sensory: functions; some people died 
_ from methylmercury poisoning as their central ner- 
vous systems failed. | 

Today, mercury is still released into the atmo- 
sphere as a result of the burning of fossil fuels and of 
garbage; airborne mercury can travel far from its 
source to affect lakes a great distance away. High 
levels of mercury are still found in some fish from 


some lakes in Ontario, even though mercury has 


never been directly discharged into those lakes from ~ 


an industrial source. That’s why testing is done on 
lakes where, seemingly, there is no evidence of 
industrial contamination. ; 

The amotint of mercury found in fish differs with 
every individual fish — it depends on the type, its 
age, its place in the food chain and the lake it comes 
from. You can eat mercury-containing fish, but the 
allowable amount varies with the level of contamina- 
“tion; when the mercury level is above 1.5 parts per 
million, you must not eat any at all. | ; 

DDT was developed during the Second World 
War and was widely used later as an insecticide. It 
breaks down very slowly in the environment. As 
DDT accumulated in their systems, some fish species 
nearly lost the ability to reproduce. As a result, the 
use of DDT was restricted in the 1960s. 


Testing indicates concentrations of DDT in fish are 


now very. low and. there are no restrictions on eating 


fish that do contain these limited amounts. 


PCBs and Mirex 


PCBs and mirex are organic industrial chemicals. 


PCBs have been given a lot of publicity in recent 
years as we try to find ways to safely dispose of PCBs 3 
and the products that still contain them. Developed 
in the 1920s; PCBs are very stable and don’t break 
down in the environment; they’re also heat resistant, - - 
so they were widely used in transformers, hydraulic 
fluids, oil and grease, fire retardants and paints, inks. 
and adhesives. 

PCBs are a concern because they can cause cancer, 


at least in animals. (There’s no conclusive proof that 


’ PCBs cause cancer in humans.) 


This is one of the chemicals that the fish moni- 
toring program looks for in high-fat fish, such as | 
salmon and lake trout. The PCB concentration can 
vary greatly even between individual fish. For 
example, one salmon can have a higher fat content 
than another — and so may have a proportionately 


higher PCB concentration than another salmon the 


same size from the same lake. 


Ontario’s consumption advisory for PCB-con- 
taining fish is based on a federal guideline of two 
parts per million. | 

Mirex is a pesticide used in the southern United 
States; it is not available in Canada. Like PCBs, it 
accumulates in fatty tissue and breaks down very 
slowly. It is also a potential cause of cancer, 

Mirex concentrations have been found mainly in 


Lake Ontario fish (principally salmon and trout). The © 


federal consumption guideline is 0.1 parts per million. - 


are are 
SHOULD VG oe THE. CATCH. OF THE. Day? 


Dioxins and Furans 


Dioxins and furans (diobenzodioxins and dibenzofu- ° 


rans) are menibers of two. large families of related 


chemical compounds. One. compound, tetra- 


-chlorodibenzodioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) is considered the - 


most toxic form of dioxin; at even low doses it can | 


cause cancer and impair reproduction in animals. 
The Ministry of Environment and Energy tests for 
_this hazardous dioxin and for other toxic forms of 


dioxins and.furans. These other dioxins and furans 


all have different potencies (50 units of one dioxin — 


If other 


dioxins and furans are found through testing, a for- 


may be as toxic as one unit of TCDD). 


mula is used to convert their potencies into a single 


_ number that is the toxic equivalent value of TCDD — 
that is, the number indicates their overall toxicity as if 
‘they were 2,3,7,8-TCDD: 


The guideline for fish consumption is 15. es pez: 


trillion. 


Should You Eat “Mutant” Fish? 


+ Haye you ever pulled a fish out of the water that 


looked like this: A fish with external growths, 


tumors, sores, or lesions? Have you hesitated to cook | 


and eat it? 


_ Sport fish may have growths because of viral or 


bacterial infections. Lymphocytes affect walleye and 


perch and are very common; they look like 
cauliflower growths on the skin. Lymphocytes don’t 
: kill fish and usually disappear in a year.: If you skin 
and thoroughly cook the fish, it is safe to eat. » 


Dermal sarcoma is also a viral disease of the 


walleye that causes growths just under the skin. 


Again, skin the fish to remove the growths and thor- 
oughly cook the fish. | : 


-Lymphosarcoma, a viral disease aecine muskel- 


-lunge (“muskies”) and northern pike, results in thick 


white patches on the fish’s skin. The patches heal to 
form blotchy red sores, or normal skin. The disease 
affects the white blood cells and can kill infected fish. 


But there’s no evidence it’s a human health hazard — 


again, just skin and thoroughly cook the fish. 

What about parasites you find inside fish when 
you clean them? It’s common to find grubs, worms, 
cysts or nodules in the intestines, or fungal growths 
on the body.. Common parasites are black spot ie 


bass and yellow perch), yellow grubs, leeches, lam- . 


_ prey, fish lice and gill flukes. There’s no risk to: you if 
_ the fish is thoroughly cooked. 


More for You to Read 


To order the publication below, telephone the 


Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Public 


-Information Centre in Toronto at (416) 323-4321 or 
toll-free at 1-800-565-4923. Or telephone the Ministry. 


of Natural Rescources Public Information Centre in 
Toronto at (416) 314-1177. Please use the Public 
Information Bank System ane number to order 


publications. 


Guide to Eating Ontario Sport Fish. Book. ) 


' Ministry of Environment and Energy/Ministry of 
- Natural Resources. ISSN 0826-9653. PIBS 590b. ae 


ENVIRONMENTAL 


MINISTRY OF: 
‘ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY 


@ Ontario — 


