Preface. 

i-V 

He who engages in the development of the human mind, from the beginning of civilization to our own 
ways, will have a remarkable result. For he will find that reason first conceived the indisputable power 
of nature, always fragmented, and personified the individual expressions of power. Thus forming gods; 
Then these gods were melted together into a single god; Then, by means of the most abstract thought, 
made this God into a being that was in no way conceivable; But at last it became critical, tore apart its 
fine whip, and put the real individual on the throne, the fact of the inner and outer experience. 

The stations of this route are: 

1) polytheism, 

2) Monotheism - pantheism, 

a. Religious pantheism, 

b. Philosophical do. 

3) Atheism. 

Not all cultural peoples have traveled all the way. The spiritual life of most has remained at the first or 
second developmental point, and only in i-VITwo countries were reached: India and Judea. 

The religion of the Indians was initially polytheism, then pantheism. (Des religious pantheism seized 
later very fine and important heads and trained him for philosophical pantheism [Vedanta].) Since 
Budha, the magnificent King's son entered, and founded in his great Karma -Teaching atheism to belief 
in the omnipotence of individual. Likewise, the religion of the Jews was first crude polytheism, then 
strict monotheism. In him, as in pantheism, the individual lost the last trace of independence. If, as 
Schopenhauer very aptly remarked, Jehovah had tormented his very powerless creature sufficiently, he 
threw them on the dung. On the other hand, critical reason reacted with elemental force in the sublime 
personality of Christ. Christ reintroduced the individual into his unchanging right, and based on it, and 
based on the belief in the movement of the world from life to death (the downfall of the world), 
founded the atheistic religion of redemption. That pure Christianity is, at bottom, genuine atheism (ie 
denial of a personal God coexisting with the world, but affirmation of a vast atheism of a pre-worldly 
dead divinity that permeates the world) and only on the surface is monotheism. 

Exoteric Christianity became world religion, and li-VII According to his triumph, the above-mentioned 
mental development has not taken place in any individual nation. 

In addition to the Christian religion, in the communion of the Western nations, the Western philosophy 
came, and has now come near to the third station. It was connected with Aristotelian philosophy, which 
had been preceded by the Ionic. In this, individual, visible individualities of the world (water, air, fire) 
have been made into principles of the whole, similarly, as in every primitive religion, individual 
observed activities of nature have been designed to be gods. The simple unity gained in the Aristotelian 
philosophy, by the combination of all forms, was then transformed into the philosophically justified 
God of the Christian Church in the Middle Ages (the pure Christianity had long since been 
lost); Because scholasticism is nothing other than philosophical monotheism. 

This was then transformed into philosophical pantheism by Scotus Erigena, Vanini, Bruno, and 
Spinoza, who, on the one hand, led to pantheism without a process (Schopenhauer) under the influence 
of a particular philosophical branch (the critical idealism: Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant) Pantheism 
with development (Schelling, Hegel) was further developed, ie pushed to the top. 

In this philosophical pantheism (it is no matter whether the simple unity in the world is called will or 
idea, or absolute or matter) move i-VIII Present, like the distinguished Indians in the time of 
Vedantaphilosophy, the most educated of civilized peoples whose basis is Western civilization. But 


1 



now the day of the reaction has come. The individual demands, more loudly than ever, the restoration 
of his torn and crushed but undeliverable right. The present work is the first attempt to give it to him 
fully. The philosophy of redemption is the continuation of the teachings of Kant and Schopenhauer and 
confirmation of Budhaism and pure Christianity. These philosophical systems are corrected and 
supplemented, and these religions are reconciled with it by science. It does not base atheism upon any 
belief, like these religions, but as philosophy, on knowledge, and therefore atheism has been 
scientifically established by it for the first time. He will also pass into the knowledge of mankind; For 
this is ripe for him: she has become mature. 


Analytics of Knowledge, 
i 1 


The more familiar the data are, the harder it is to get them 
A new and yet correct way to combine, since already 
An exceedingly large number of heads at them 
And the possible combinations of the same 
Has exhausted. 

Schopenhauer. 


1 . 

T he true philosophy must be purely immanent, that is, their material both as its limit must be the 
world. It must explain the world of principles, which can be recognized by every human being, and can 
not help either out-of-theworld powers, of which absolutely nothing can be known, or powers in the 
world, which, however, by their very nature can not be recognized call. True philosophy must also be 
idealistic, that is, it must not overthrow the knowing subject, and speak of things as though they are the 
same as the eye, independent of an eye which she sees, a hand which she feels Sees the hand she feels. 
Before she dares take a step to solve the enigma of the world, she must have carefully and precisely 
investigated the ability to know. It may be that: 1. That the discerning subject produces the world 
entirely from his own means; Second, That the subject perceives the world just as it is; Third, That the 
world is a product, partly a subject, a part independent of the subject, of the phenomenon. 

The output from the subject is thus the beginning of the only safe way to the truth. It is possible, as I 
may say here, that the philosopher must also make a leap over the subject; But such a method, which 
gives everything to chance, would be unworthy of a prudent thinker. 

Second 

The sources from which all experience, all knowledge, all our knowledge flows, are: 1) The senses, 

2) The self-consciousness. There is no third source. 

Third 

We first consider sensuous knowledge. - A tree standing in front of me throws straight back the beams 
of light which strike him. Some of them fall into my eye and make an impression on the retina, which 
the excited optic nerve transmits to the brain. I touch a stone, and the sentient senses redirect the 
sensations received to the brain. A bird sings and thus produces a wave movement in the air. A few 
waves hit my ear, the eardrum trembled, and the auditory nerve gave the impression of being brains. 


2 




I take the scent of a flower. It touches the mucous membranes of the nose and excites the nerve nerve, 
which brings the impression to the brain. A fruit arouses my taste-buds, and they take the impression of 
the brains. The function of the senses is, therefore, the transmission of impressions to the brain. Since, 
however, these impressions are of a very definite nature, and the product of a reaction, which is 
likewise a function, it is advisable to separate the sense into the sense-organ and the apparatus of 
conduction. Accordingly, the function of the organs of sense should simply be placed in the production 
of the specific impression, and the function of the conduction apparatus, as above, in the transmission 
of the definite impression. 

4th 

The sensuous impressions transferred from the brain to the outside are ideas; The totality of this is the 
world as an idea. It disintegrates into: 1) The intuitive idea, or briefly the intuition; 2) The non-intuitive 
perception. The former is based on the facial sense and partly on the I i 5 Sense of touch (feeling); The 
latter on the sense of hearing, smell, and taste, as well as partly on the feeling. 

5th 

We now have to see how the intuitive notion, the intuition, arises for us, and begin with the impression 
which the tree has made in the eye. More has not yet happened. There has been a certain change in the 
retina, and this change has affected my brain. If nothing else were done, the process would be ended, 
my eye would never see the tree; For how could the weak change in my nerves be made into a tree in 
me, and in what wonderful way should I see it? But the brain reacts to the impression, and the faculty 
of knowledge, which we call understanding, comes into action. The understanding seeks the cause of 
change in the sense-organ, and this transition from the action in the senseorgan to the cause is its sole 
function, is the law of causality. This function is congenital to the understanding, and lies 
in its essence before all experience, as the stomach must have the ability to digest before the first food 
comes into it. If the law of causation were not the a priori function of the understanding, we would 
never arrive at an intuition. The law of causality is, according to the senses, the first condition for the 
possibility of conception and therefore is a priori in us. On the other hand, however, the intellect would 
never be able to function, and would be a dead, useless intelligence if it were not aroused by causes. If 
the causes which lead to intuition lie in the senses, as are the effects, they must be brought forth in us 
by an unknowable, omnipotent, alien hand, which must reject the immanent philosophy. It remains, 
therefore, only the assumption that completely independent causes are produced by the subject in the 
organs of sense, that is, independent things put into operation the understanding. Thus certainly the law 
of causality lies in us, and indeed before all experience, so on the other hand is the existence 
of things in themselves, independent of the subject, whose effectiveness first sets the mind into 
function. 

6th 

The mind searches for the sensation of the sense, and by following the direction of the incident beams 
of light, it reaches it. He would, however, perceive nothing unless there were in him, before all 
experience, forms in which he poured the cause, as it were. One is the space. When one speaks of 
space, one usually emphasizes that he has three dimensions: height, width, and depth, and is infinite, 
that is, it is impossible to imagine that space has a limit, and the certainty of never being in its 
measurement To come to an end is just his infinity. That the infinite space exists independently of the 
subject, and that its limitation, the spatiality, belongs to the essence of things, is a view which is 
surmounted by critical philosophy and which originates from the naive childhood of mankind, which 
would be a useless work. There is neither an infinite space nor finite spaces outside of the observing 


3 



subject. But the room is also not a pure a priori intuition of the subject, nor has this pure a priori 
intuition of finite space, through whose concatenation it the perception of an all comprehensive and 
could reach some space, as I will prove in the Appendix. 

The space as a form of the intellect (of the mathematical space is now not the speech) is a point, ie the 
space as a form of the understanding is to be thought only under the image of a point. This point has the 
ability (or almost the ability of the subject) to limit the things which affect the sense organs in question 
in three directions. Thus the essence of the room is the ability to interact in three dimensions in an 
indeterminate length apart (in indefinitum). Where a thing in itself ceases to function, space sets its 
limits, and space does not have the power to extend it to its very first extent. It is completely indifferent 
in respect of expansion. It is equally pleasing to give a palace like a quartz grain, a 
horse like a bee the border. The thing in itself determines him to unfold as far as it does, 
i 7 If on the one hand the (point) space is a condition of the possibility of experience, an a priori form 
of our knowledge, then on the other hand it is certain that every thing in itself has a completely 
independent sphere of activity from the subject. This is not determined by space, but it is intended to 
limit the space exactly where it ceases. 


7th 

The second form, which the understanding takes to help the found cause, is matter. It is likewise to be 
thought of under the image of a point (the substance is not mentioned here). It is the ability to 
accurately and faithfully objectify every property of things in themselves, any special efficacy, within 
the form drawn by space; For the object is nothing other than the thing passed through the forms of the 
subject in itself. Without the object no object, no objects no external world. With the intention of the 
division of meaning in sense-organism and conduction-apparatus described above, matter is to be 
defined as the point where the transmitted sense-impressions, which are the processed special effects of 
intuitive things in themselves, unite. Matter is, therefore, the common form for all sensory impressions, 
or else the sum of all the sensuous impressions of things in themselves of the intuitive world. Matter is 
therefore a further condition of the possibility of experience, or an a priori form of our knowledge. It 
stands, completely independently, the sum of the efficacies of a thing in itself, or, in a word, the force. 
Insofar as a force is the object of the perception of a subject, it is matter (objective power); On the other 
hand, every force, independent of a perceptive subject, is free of matter and only force. Note well, 
therefore, that, as accurate and photographically faithful to the subjective form of matter reproduces the 
specific modes of action of a thing in itself, the only use for rendering but toto genere of the force is 
different. The form of an object is identical with the sphere of activity of the object underlying it, but 
the objectified by matter i 8 The expressions of power of the thing in itself are not identical with these, 
in their essence. There is also no resemblance, which is why one can only draw with the greatest 
reservation a picture for clarification and say that matter represents the qualities of things, as a colored 
mirror shows objects, or the object is related to the thing itself as one Marble floor to a clay model. The 
essence of power is just the nature of matter toto genere different. Certainly, the redness of an object 
points to a special property of the thing itself, but the redness does not have 

equality with this property. It is quite clear that two objects, one of which is smooth and pliable, the 
other rough and brittle, make distinctions appear in the essence of the two things in themselves; But the 
smoothness, the roughness, the flexibility, and the brittleness of objects, with the respective properties 
of things, have in themselves no equality of being. 

We therefore have to explain here that the subject is a major factor in the production of the external 
world, although it does not falsify the effect of a thing in itself, but only exactly reproduces what is 
working on it. It is here the object of the thing-in-itself, the phenomenon different from that which 


4 



appears in it. Thing in itself and subject make the object. But it is not space which distinguishes the 
object from the thing in itself, nor is it the time, as I shall show immediately, but matter alone produces 
the gulf between the appearing and its appearance, although matter is entirely Indifferent, and can not, 
by his own means, place a property in the thing itself, or strengthen or weaken its effectiveness. It 
simply objectivizes the given sense-impression, and it does not matter whether it has to render the 
fundamental property of the thing, which is the basis of the most screaming red, or the softest blue, the 
greatest hardness, or the full softness; But it can present the impression only by its nature, and here, 
therefore, the knife must be employed in order to make the right, so exceedingly important, cut through 
the ideal and the real, 
i 9 

8th. 

The work of the understanding is terminated with the discovery of the cause for the corresponding 
change in the sense-organ, and with its infiltration into its two forms space and matter (objectification 
of the cause). Both forms are equally important and support each other. I emphasize that without the 
space we would have no successive objects, that space, on the other hand, can only apply its depth 
dimension to the tinted colors provided by matter, to shadows and light. The intellect alone, therefore, 
has to objectify the sense-impressions, and no other capacity of knowledge supports it in its work. But 
the mind can not deliver finished objects. 


9th 

The sensuous impressions, which are objectivized by the understanding, are not whole but partial 
representations. As long as the mind alone is active-which is never the case, since all our capacities of 
knowledge, the one and the other less, always function together, but a separation is necessary here-only 
those parts of the tree which clearly represent the center The retina, or such places as are very close to 
the center. For this reason we continually change the position of our eyes during the observation of the 
object. Soon we move our eyes from the point of the root to the extreme point of 

the crown, sometimes from right to left, sometimes reversed, and sometimes we let them glide over a 
small flower countless times: only to bring every part into contact with the center of the retina. In this 
way we obtain a number of distinct distinct representations, which, however, can not be joined by the 
mind to an object. If this is to be done, they must be handed over by the intellect to another faculty of 
knowledge, reason. 

10th 

Reason is supported by three faculties: memory, judgment, and imagination, li 10 All the powers of 
knowledge, the human mind, are summarized: 

The function of reason is synthesis or conjunction as activity. From now on, whenever the function of 
reason is used, I will use the word synthesis, and, on the other hand, establish a connection for the 
product, the connected one. 

The form of reason is the present. 

The function of memory is: to preserve the sensory impressions. 

The function of the power of judgment is: the composition of the other. 

The function of the imagination is: to hold the intuitions connected by reason as images. 

But the function of the mind is, at all events, to accompany the activity of all faculties with 
consciousness, and to link their knowledge to the point of self-consciousness. 


5 



11th 

In communion with the power of judgment and imagination, reason stands in the most intimate 
relations with the mind, for the preparation of the intuition with which we are still exclusively 
concerned. To begin with, the judging power of reason gives the related representations. This, in turn, 
connects these (and, for example, those which belong to a leaf, a branch, to the stem), by the fact that 
the imagination always keeps the connected one a new piece, and that the whole can be held back by 
the imagination And so on. It then unites the dissimilar, ie, the stem, the branches, the branches, the 
leaves, and the flowers in a similar manner, and repeats their connections individually and as a whole, 
according as necessary. 

ill Reason exercises its function on the almost continuous point of the present, and the time is 
unnecessary; But the synthesis can also take place in this one: More details later. Imagination carries 
the respective connected from the present to the present, and reason fits in a piece, always remaining in 
the present, that is, on the point of the present. The ordinary view is that the understanding is the 
synthetic faculty; Indeed, there are many who maintain in good faith that synthesis does not take place 
at all, that every object is immediately understood as a whole. Both views are inaccurate. The mind can 
not connect because it has only one function: transition from the action in the sense-organ to the cause. 
But the synthesis itself can never fail, even if one looks at the head of a pin, as a sharp self-observation 
will show to each; For the eyes will move, albeit almost imperceptibly. The illusion arises chiefly from 
the fact that we are conscious of finished connections, but are almost always unconsciously active in 
the synthesis: first, because of the great rapidity with which both the most perfect organ of sense, the 
eye and impressions are received and the understanding is objectively the same; Reason itself; 
Secondly, because we remember so little that we, as children, had to learn to apply the synthesis 
gradually and with great difficulty, just as the depth of the space was at first quite 
unknown to us. As we now, upon the opening of the eyelids, immediately perceive every object at the 
correct distance and itself, in its extent, without flaw, while it is an undisputed fact that the newborn is 
the moon as well as the pictures of the parlor and the face of the As the colors of a single surface, float 
close to our eyes, we now at once see the objects, even the largest, as a whole, while we, as infants, 
certainly saw only parts of objects, and as a result of the slight exercise Of our judgment and 
imagination, could neither judge the cohesion, nor hold back the vanished parts. The illusion also arises 
from the fact that most objects, viewed from a suitable distance, take up their whole picture 
i 12 The retina are drawn, and the synthesis is so relieved that it escapes the perception. To an attentive 
self-observer, however, he compels himself irresistibly when he confronts an object in such a way that 
he does not entirely overlook it, so that perceived parts disappear in the course of the synthesis. It 
appears even more distinctly, if we pass by a mountain train closely and grasp its entire form. But it is 
most clearly recognized when we skip the facial sense, and leave the sense of touch alone, as I will 
show in detail in an appendix. 

The Synthesis is an a priori function of the faculty of knowledge and as such a condition a priori the 
possibility of conception. It stands completely independent of it, the unity of the thing in itself, which 
forces it to connect in a very definite way. 

12th 

We have not yet fully measured the field of intuition, but must now leave it for a short time. 

In this way the visible world arises. It is, however, to be noted that, by the synthesis of partial 
representations to objects, thinking is by no means brought into intuition. The connection of a given 
manifold of intuition is, of course, a work of reason, but not a work in terms or concepts, either by pure 
a priori (categories) or by ordinary concepts. 


6 



Reason, however, does not limit its activity to the synthesis of the partial presentations of the 
understanding to objects. It exercises its function, which is always one and the same, in other fields of 
which we shall first consider the abstract, the domain of the reflection of the world in concepts. 

The representations of the understanding connected to whole objects or to whole parts of objects are 
compared with the judgment. The same or the like is compiled by it, with the help of the imagination, 
and handed over to the reason which connects it to a collective unity, the concept. The more similar is 
the summarized, the closer to the I i 13 The concept stands as an example, and the more easily the 
transition to an intuitive representative is made. If, on the other hand, the number of the features in the 
combined objects becomes ever smaller, and the concept is thus always farther and farther, it is the 
further to the intuition. However, even the broadest concept of his mother's ground is not quite 
detached, even though it is only a thin and very long thread that holds him. In the same way as reason 
reflects visible objects in concepts, it also forms, with the aid of memory, concepts from all our other 
perceptions, of which I shall speak in the following. It is clear that the concepts which are drawn from 
intuitive representations are made more easily and more quickly than those which originate in non- To 
have; For, as the eye is the most perfect organ of sense, the imagination is the most powerful faculty of 
reason. 

When the child learns the language, that is, acquires ready-made concepts, it has to perform the same 
operation which was at all necessary to form concepts. It is only made easier by the finished concept. If 
it sees an object, it compares it with what is known to it, and composes the like. It thus forms no 
concept, but subsumes only one concept. If an object is unknown to him, it is without question, and the 
right concept must be given to him. - 

Reason then combines the concepts themselves into judgments, that is, they combine concepts which 
compose the power of judgment. Moreover, it combines judgments with premises from which a new 
judgment is drawn. Their method is guided by the known four principles on which the logic is based. 

In the abstract sphere, reason thinks, likewise on the point of the present, and not in time. But we must 
turn to this now. In doing so, we enter an extraordinarily important domain, namely that of the 
connections of reason on the basis of a priori forms and functions of the faculty of knowledge. 
Sammtliche compounds which we will get to know, are in the hand of experience, so a posteriori 
emerged, 
i 14 


13 th 

Time is a conjunction of reason, and not, as one ordinarily assumes, an a priori form of cognition. The 
reason of the child accomplishes this connection in the domain of the imagination, as well as on the 
way into the interior. We now want to let the time arise in the light of consciousness, and choose the 
latter path, since it is the most suitable for the philosophical investigation, although the inner source of 
experience has not yet been dealt with. If we detach ourselves from the external world, and submerge 
ourselves in our inner being, we find ourselves in a continuous elevation and reduction, briefly in an 
incessant movement. The place where this movement touches our consciousness, I will call the point of 
movement. On it, the form of reason, the point of the present, floats (or sits as screwed). Where the 
point of movement is, there is also the point of the present, and this is always exactly above that 
point. He can not advance ahead of him, and he can not stay behind: both are inextricably linked. 

If we examine with attention the process, we find that we are always in the present, but always at the 
expense or by the death of the present; In other words, we move from present to present. 

Now, when the reason becomes conscious of this transition, the imagination keeps the vanishing 
present and connects it with the evolving. It pushes, as it were, under the rolling, flowing, intimately 


7 



connected points of movement and presence a fixed surface on which it reads the path which has passed 
through, and acquires a series of fulfilled moments, that is, a series of fulfilled transitions from present 
to present. 

In this way it attains the essence and concept of the past. If it then rushes away in the present, for it can 
not separate it from the point of motion, and advance it before the movement, and if it connects the 
coming present with the one following it, it gains a series of moments which will be fulfilled Gains the 
essence and concept of the future. Is she now connecting the past? 

i 15 With the future to an ideal fixed line of indeterminate length, on which the point of the present 
advances, it has the time. Just as the present is nothing without the point of the movement on which it 
floats, time is nothing without the foundation of the real movement. The real movement is completely 
independent of time, or, in other words, the real succession would also take place without the ideal 
succession. If there were no discerning beings in the world, the existing uncritical things in themselves 
would nevertheless be in a restless movement. If knowledge emerges, time is only the condition of the 
possibility of recognizing the movement, or also time is the subjective criterion of movement. 

Above the point of the movement of the individual is the point of the present, in the case of knowing 
beings. The point of the single motion stands next to the points of all other individual motions, that is, 
all the individual motions form a general movement of uniform succession. The presence of the subject 
always indicates precisely the point of the movement of all things in themselves. 

14th 

We go, the important a posteriori - Connection time in hand, back to view. I have said above that the 
synthesis of partial representations is independent of the time when reason, on the moving point of the 
present, accomplishes its connections, and the imagination keeps the connected. But the synthesis can 
also take place in time when the subject draws his attention to it. It is no different with changes which 
can be perceived on the point of the present. 

There are two kinds of change. One is change of location and the other inner change (drive, 
development). Both combine the higher concept of movement. If the change in position is such that it 
can be perceived as a displacement of the moving object against stationary objects, its perception does 
not depend on the time i 16 But is recognized on the point of the present, as the movement of a branch, 
the flight of a bird. 

For the reflective reason, however, all changes, without exception, like the intuition itself, do for a 
certain time; But, like perception, the perception of such changes is not dependent on the consciousness 
of time; For the subject recognizes it directly on the point of the present, which is to be noted. Time is 
an ideal connection; It does not flow, but is an imaginary firm line. Every past moment is as it were 
frozen and can not be shifted by a hairline. Likewise, every future moment has its definite fixed place 
on the ideal line. But what is continually moving is the point of the present: it 

flows, not time. It would also be quite wrong to say that it is precisely this flow of the present time, For 
if we pursue only the point of the present, we never get to the idea of time: one always remains in the 
present. We must look backwards and forwards, and at the same time have fixed embankments, in 
order to gain the ideal connection time. 

On the other hand, changes in the locality, which can not be directly perceived on the point of the 
present, and all the developments are recognized only by means of time. The movement of the hands of 
a watch is beyond our perception. If I now recognize that the same pointer was first at 6, then at seven, 
I must be aware of the succession, that is, in order to be able to attach two contradictorily predicates to 
the same object, I need time. 

This is the case with changes of location, which I might have noticed, but not perceived, in the present 


8 



(displacement of an object behind my back), and with developments. Our tree is blossoming. If we now 
move into the autumn and give the tree fruit, we need the time to recognize the flowering and the early 
tree as the same object. The same object can be hard and soft, red, and green, but it can always have 
only one of the two predicates in a present, 
i 17 

15 th 

We have now measured the whole field of intuition. 

Is it, that is, the totality of spatial- Material objects, the whole world of our experience? No! It is only a 
part of the world as an idea. We have sensory impressions, the cause of which the understanding, 
exercising its function, seeks, but which can not be spatially and materially shaped. And yet we also 
have the notion of non- Intuitive objects and thus, first and foremost, the idea of a collective unit, the 
universe. How do we get there? 

Every mode of action of a thing in itself, in so far as it affects the senses for intuition (facial and tactile 
sense), is objectivized by the form of matter, ie it becomes material for us. An exception does not take 
place in any way, and therefore matter is the ideal substrate of all visible objects, which in itself is 
without quality, but in which all qualities have to appear, similar to the space without expansions, but 
which traces all forces. 

In consequence of this lack of quality of the ideal substratum of all visible objects, reason is offered a 
similar manifold which links it to the unity of the substance. 

The substance is, therefore, as the time to connect a posteriori the reason on the basis of an a priori 
shape. With the help of these ideal connection now reason thinks about all those sensations, which can 
not be pour into the molds of mind, matter and should come in this way to present non-physical objects. 
These and the physical properties make up a coherent set of substantial objects. Only now the air, 
colorless gases, smells and sounds are us (vibrirende air) to objects, if we can not make spatially and 
materially the same, and the sentence has now unconditional validity: that everything that makes an 
impression on our senses, is necessarily substantial. 

The unit of the ideal bonding substance is on real areas compared to the universe, the Collectiv unit of 
forces, which is totally independent of that, 
i 18 

16th 

This leaves the taste sensations. They do not lead to new objects, but to those which are already 
provided by impressions on other senses. The mind seeks only the cause and then leaves to reason the 
more. These easy exercises its function and connects the effect with the existing object, eg the taste of a 
pear with the substantive bite of it in our mouth. 

In general only reason can recognize the different emanating from an object effects than a single force 
sphere entflieBend; because the mind is not a synthetic assets. - 

To sum it all together now, we see that the idea is neither sensual nor intellectual, nor rational, but 
spiritual. It is the work of the spirit, that of all the faculty of cognition. 


17th 

As I have shown above, all sensations lead to objects that make up the objective world in its totality. 
The reason reflects this whole objective world in concepts and wins in addition to the world of 
immediate perception, a world of abstraction. 


9 



Finally, they arrived at a third world, to the world of reproduction, which is located between the first 
two. 

Reason reproduced, separated from the outside world, faded everything perceived by the aid of 
memory, namely either accomplished entirely new compounds, or turns Entschwundenes accurate but 
weak and again before. The process is quite the same as with immediate impressions on the senses. The 
reason quite remembers not complete images, smells, taste sensations, words, sounds, but only of 
sensations. She calls, with the help of memory, in the sensory nerves (and not what we have to think of 
as mind at their tips, but where they open into that part of the brain) produces an impression and the 
mind objectifies him. we take our tree, the mind shapes the impressions that has preserved the memory, 
to partial ideas that I i 19 judgment, this together, reason connects the Collated that imagination holds 
the Related fixed and a pale reflection of the tree stands before us. The extraordinary rapidity of the 
process should not blind us, as I said, lead to the false assumption that an immediate recall of the 
objects takes place. The process is just as complicated as the emergence of 
objects on the basis of real effects on the senses. 

The dreams occur in a similar manner. They are perfect reproductions. Their objectivity they owe in 
general, the rest of the sleeping individual and the specifics Dern full inactivity of the ends of the 
sensory nerves. 

18th 

We have now to consider the rest of the important compounds that, due to a priori functions and forms 
of the faculty of knowledge, accomplished the reason. 

The function of the mind is the transition from the action in the sense organ to the cause. He practices it 
unconsciously, because the mind does not think. It can also its function not exercise reversed and go 
from cause to effect, because only an effect puts it into action, and so long is an object for him, that as 
long as the mind is ever in action, he can come up with nothing more employ, as with the found cause. 
Set, he could think and wanted to go from cause to effect, would disappear the object at that moment 
and it could only be recovered, that the mind recently investigated the cause to effect. 

The mind can thus expand its function in any way. But reason can. 

First, it recognizes the function itself that it recognizes that the function of the mind is to look for the 
cause of a change in the sense organs. Then the reason sets back the way from cause to effect. So you 
see two causal relationships: 

1) the law of causality, ie the law, that any change in the sensory organs of the subject must have a 
cause; 

2) that things seem to be on the subject. 

i 20 In this way the causal relationships of undisputed validity are exhausted, because the knowing 
subject can not know whether to recognize other beings in the same way, or whether they are subject to 
other laws. So, however praiseworthy the careful management of critical reason is so reprehensible they 
would be if they gave up the further penetration into the causal relationships here. You can also not be 
swayed and stamped first the body of the knowing subject to an object among objects. Based on this 
knowledge, they arrived at an important third causal relation. Namely, it extends the law of causality 
(relation between thing in itself and subject) for general causality that I bring into the following 
formula: 

It affects thing in itself on thing in itself and any change in an object must have a cause which precedes 
the effect in time. (I think intentionally thing in itself and object here apart because although we know 
that thing works itself on thing in itself, but things can be perceived by the subject only as objects in 
themselves.) 


10 



So by means of general causality reason linked object with the object, ie the general causality is the 
condition of possibility, the relation in which things in themselves are to each other, to recognize. 

Now here is the place to establish the concept of cause. Since thing acts on to the thing in itself, so 
there is ever only effective causes ( causae efficientes ), which can be one-heal 1) mechanical causes 
(pressure and shock), 2) stimulation, 3) motives. 

The mechanical causes occur mainly in inorganic realms that stimuli mainly in the plant kingdom, the 
motives only in the animal kingdom on. Further, since the man who time the can look forward to come, 
he can set goals, that is for the people and for him there are final causes (by virtue final causes ), or 
ideal causes. They are, like all other causes, acting, because they can only act whenever they are on the 
point of the present. 

The term accidental cause is to limit the effect that he I i 21 designates only the occasion, which gives a 
thing in another, to act on a third. Draws a cloud that shrouded the sun, continued and my hand warm, 
so is the withdrawal of the cloud exciting cause, not the cause itself, the heating of my hand. 

19th 

The reason further extends the general causality which two things linked (the acting and suffering) to a 
fourth causal relationships which comprises the validity of all things in themselves, to the Community 
or interaction. The same states that every thing continuirlich, directly and indirectly, affects all other 
things in the world, and that at the same time to the same all other continuirlich, directly and indirectly, 
act, which it follows that no thing may have to be an absolutely independent efficacy. 

As the law of causality to set an independent from the subject effectiveness and overall causality for 
setting the independent from the subject action of things led to another, so the community is only a 
subjective link virtue recognized what the real dynamic context of the universe becomes. The latter 
would also be present without a knowing subject; but the subject could he not realize when it would be 
unable to accomplish the Association of Community in itself, or in other words, the community is the 
condition of the possibility to capture the dynamic context of the universe. 

20th 

Reason has now produce only one connection: the mathematical space. 

The (point) space is different from the present thereby significantly that he entirely sufficient to bring 
the vision, while the present is not sufficient to detect Sammtliche movements of things. 

It would therefore appear at all as useless, for construction of a connection between the mathematical 
space, a posteriori to proceed, as is the time. But this is not the I i 22 the case; because mathematical 
space is essential to human knowledge, because mathematics is based on it, the high value will also 
recognize one who willingly that her boyfriend is not. Not only is the mathematics, the unshakable 
basis of various studies, including the all-important for the culture of the human race astronomy, but it 
is also the cornerstone of art (architecture) and the foundation of art, which in its further development, 
the social conditions of the people is totally redesign. 

Mathematical space created by reason determines the point-space auseinanderzutreten, and then 
connects any pure space into a whole of indefinite extension. It shall proceed in this case, as in the 
formation of entire objects from partial ideas. 

Mathematical space is the only connection to a priori reason, which does not help determine the thing 
in itself. Accordingly, it is on real areas not a thing in itself, nor a totality such but absolute nothingness 
against which we can imagine in any other way than by the mathematical empty space. 

21st 


11 



Among the manifold relations which has reason to understanding, finally enters this: the appearance, ie 
to correct the mistake of the mind. So we see the moon on the horizon greater than in height, a stick 
broken in the water, a star that is already extinguished, even all the stars in places where they actually 
not on (because the Earth's atmosphere refracts all light and can search the understanding the cause of 
the sensory impression only in the direction of falling into the eye rays); we mean also that the earth 
does not move, the planets sometimes stands still or moving back and so what All rights the thinking 
reason. 

22nd 

We will now summarize the previous close. 

The human faculty of cognition has: 
i 23 a. various priori functions and forms, namely: 

1) the law of causality, 

2) the (point) area, 

3) the matter, 

4) the synthesis, 

5) the presence, 

faced by on real areas, completely independent, the following provisions of the thing itself: 

1) the efficiency at all, 

2) the efficacy sphere, 

3) the pure force 

4) The unit of each thing in itself, 

5) the point of movement. 

The human faculty of cognition has: 

b. different due to a priori functions and forms, bewerkstelligte by reason, ideal connections, 
respectively. 

Connections: 

1) the time, 

2) the general causality 

3) the Community, 

4) the substance, 

5) the mathematical space. 

The four former correspond to real areas following provisions of things in themselves: 

1) the real succession, 

2) the action of a thing in itself to another, 

3) the dynamic context of the universe, 

4) the Collectiv unit of space. 

The mathematical space is absolute nothingness over. We have also found that the object is appearance 
of the thing in itself, and that matter alone produces the difference between the two. 

23rd 

The thing in itself, as far as we have examined it so far is force. The world the totality of things in 
themselves, is a whole of pure forces, which are the subject to objects. I 

i 24 The object is appearance of the thing in itself, and although it depends on the subject, yet we have 
seen that in any way it falsifies the thing in itself. We must therefore trust the experience. Now what is 
the strength in yourself, that has not been dealing with us now. We initially remain still on the bottom 
of the world as representation and consider the force in general, which we anticipate physics as little as 


12 



possible. - The law of causality, the function of the mind, always looking for only the cause of a change 
in the sense organs. Changes in them nothing, so it rests entirely, the other hand, changes a sensory 
organ by a real effect, so the mind occurs immediately in activity and seeks to effect the cause. Did he 
find it, the law of causality as it occurs to the side. 

The mind, and this is well to remember, is not in a position to continue to apply the law of causality and 
ask about the cause of the cause, for he does not think. So he will never abuse the law of causality; also 
is obvious that no other faculty of cognition can do this. The law of causality conveys only the idea that 
the perception of the outside world. Changed under my eyes the discovered object to the law of 
causality only serves to seek the cause of the new change in the sensory organ, not the change in the 
object: it is as if a whole new thing would have exercised in itself an effect on me. 

So due to the causality law, we can never, for example, for the cause of the movement of a branch that 
was previously motionless, wondering. We can only due to the movement thereof perceive and only 
because itself, in which the movement has changed my sense organ by the transition of the branch from 
the state of rest. 

Can we not ask for the cause of the movement of the branch now? Certainly we can do it, but only on 
the basis of universal causality, a compound of the reason a posteriori ; because only through this we 
can see the influence of object to object while the Cau I salitatsgesetz i 25 , only the threads between 
subject and object spins itself. 

So we ask because quite rightly the cause of the movement of the branch. We find them in the wind, we 
like it so we can ask first for the cause of the wind, then so on for the cause of this cause, that we can 
make causality ranks. 

But what happened when I asked for the cause of the moving branch and found the same? I jumped as 
if from the tree and took a different object, the wind. And what happened when I found the cause of the 
wind? I just left the wind and stand for something completely different, such as when sunlight or heat. 

It follows very clearly: 

1) that the application of the general causality always derived from things in themselves, 

2) that causality ranks only linking efficiencies of things in themselves, that is never self-contained 
things as members in itself. 

Let us try to pursue further (every man for himself) the broken up in the heat causality series further, it 
is clearly apparent to everyone, that it 

3) is also difficult to form proper Causalreihen, as it seems to be slightly in the first moments, so that it 
is for the subject quite impossible, starting from any change, a proper causal series a parte ante produce 
which an unimpeded progress in indefinitum would. 

Things in themselves are therefore never in a causality row, and I can for the cause of being a thing in 
itself neither by the hand of the causality law, to ask the hand of the general causality; because a thing 
changed about him that I virtue of the causality law've found as an object, and I wonder virtue of the 
general causality of the cause of the change, the general causality leads me immediately from the thing 
itself from flat. The question: what is the cause of a thing in itself in the world, must not only but they 
can not be made at all. 

i 26 It is evident that never lead to the past of things in us the causal relationships, and it shows an 
incredible lack of reflection, when one considers the so-called infinite causal series for the best weapon 
against the known three proofs of God's existence. It is the dullest weapon that there can be, yes she is 
not holding a weapon: it is the Lichtenberg's knife. 

And strange! Just what makes this weapon to nothing, which also makes the imaginary evidence 
untenable, namely the causality. Opponents of the evidence claim frischweg: the chain of causality is 
endless, without even ever just trying to make a series of fifty right limbs;and the originator of the 
evidence made easily, the things of this world to members of a causal series and then ask extremely 


13 



naive about the cause of the world. Two parties is as above to explain: The general causality never 
leads into the past of things in themselves. 

The seed is not the cause of a plant; for seed and plant are in no causal but in a genetic connection. In 
contrast, you can ask for the causes which brought the seed in the ground to germinate, or the causes 
which made the fuBhohe plant to such six feet high, but you answered these questions, so everyone will 
find what we have found above, namely: that each of these causes is derived from the plant. Finally, 
you will find the plant completely cocooned in members of Causalreihen, but where they never appear 
as a member. 

Is there now no means to be able to penetrate into the past of things? The aforementioned genetic 
relationship between seed and plant answers the question in the affirmative. Reason can form series of 
developments, which are something quite different from Causalreihen. These are created with the help 
of causality, those only with the help of time. Causality rows are the concatenated effectiveness is not 
one but many things; Development series, however it have to do with being a thing in itself and its 
modifications. This result is very important, 
i 27 

24th 

Let us now, based on the natural science, in this single path, which leads into the past of the things on, 
so we must reduce all rows organic forces on the chemical forces (carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, 
iron, phosphorus, etc.) , That we will succeed, even these simple chemical forces, the so-called simple 
substances, due to a few forces, is an unshakable conviction of most naturalists. However, it is for our 
investigation quite immaterial whether this will happen or not, because it is an irrefutable truth that we 
will never reach immanent areas on the multitude out of the unit. It is therefore clear that we would not 
take only three simple chemical forces as hundreds or thousands.So let's stop at the number, which still 
angiebt us the science of our day. In contrast, we find in our thinking not only no obstacle, but even 
logical necessity to bring the multiplicity least on their simplest expression, duality, because the reason 
is what is all objects to basically force, and what would be more natural than that they, their function 
exercising, even for the present and valid all future associations the forces to a metaphysical unity? Not 
the varied effectiveness of forces could prevent them, because it has only the general, the effectiveness 
absolutely every thing is in itself, in the eye, that is the essential equality of all forces, and their 
function but solely the fact that diverse Similar that iibergiebt to her judgment, connect. 

We must, however, their not give here, but must, speaking the truth glancing, preserve the sanity by 
strong curb in front of a safe fall. I repeat: we can on immanent field, in this world, never about the 
multiplicity addition. Even in the past, we must, as a bona fide researchers who multiplicity not destroy, 
and must at least remain at the logical duality. Nevertheless, the reason can not stop, over and over 
again to point out the necessity of a single unit. Their argument is that already mentioned, that for all I 
i 28 forces, which we consider separately, as forces are essentially identical to the deepest reason and 
therefore should not be separated. What is to be done in this dilemma? This much is clear: the truth 
must not be denied and the immanent area must be preserved in all its purity. There is only one way 
out. In the past, we are already. So we can because the last forces that we were not allowed to touch it, 
if we did not want to be visionaries come together to transscendentem areas. There is a past, 
Gewesenes, sunken area, and with it, the simple unity has passed and gone down. 

25th 

By fused multiplicity to unity, we have destroyed the power above all; because the force is only valid 
and meaning on immanent regions in the world. Already from this it follows is that we can form no 
conception, let a term us of the essence of a primeval unity. Clearly, however, the total unknowable this 


14 



antediluvian unit when we all all a priori functions and forms and a posteriori derived compounds of 
our mind, one after the other, before they lead. She is the head of Medusa, before they solidify all. 

First, the sense refuse to work; because they can react only to the effectiveness of a force and the unit 
does not act as force. Then the mind remains completely inactive. Here, yes basically just here, has a 
saying: the mind stands still in full force. Neither he can apply his law of causality because no sensation 
exists, nor can he use his shapes space and matter, because it lacks a table of contents for these forms. 
Then the reason collapses unconscious. What should she join? What you use is the synthesis? what 
their form, the present, which is missing the real point of the exercise? What do you avails the time, to 
even be something that the real succession as support needs? What should the simple unit to start over 
with the general causality, whose job it is,the effectiveness of a thing in itself, as the cause, with the 
action to another to link the effect? can I i 29 they use the important link community where 
simultaneous entanglement of various forces, a dynamic context does not exist, but where a simple unit 
aligns the inscrutable Sphinx eyes on them? What should ultimately benefit the substance that is the 
ideal substrate of various effectiveness of many powers? 

And so they weaken all! 

We can thus determine the simple unity only negative, and indeed, on our present positions, as: 
inactive, ausdehnungslos indiscriminately, not cut fragmented (easy), motionless, timeless (forever). 

But let's not forget, and we are sticking right that this mysterious, utterly unrecognizable simple unit 
has set with its 

transcendental areas and no longer exists. At this knowledge, we want to raise us up and returned us go 
with fresh courage to the existing area, which alone is valid, clear and distinct world. 

26th 

It follows from the foregoing that Sammtliche development series, we like to go out of whatever we 
want, a parte ante in a transcendent unity lead which our knowledge completely closed, an X Nothing 
is the same, and we can therefore say quite clearly that the world was created out of nothing. However, 
as we on the one hand this unit a positive predicate, the need of existence attach, although we can not 
form the allerarmlichsten term us on the nature of this existence, and our reason is simply impossible 
on the other hand, think of a creation out of nothing, so we are dealing with a relative nothingness ( 
nihil privativum to do), which can be described as a past, incomprehensible primordial, in which 
everything is contained in a us incomprehensible way. 

From this it follows here: 

1) that Sammtliche development series have a beginning, (which by the way already follows from the 
concept development with logical necessity); 

2) that it is therefore no infinite Causalreihen a parte ante can give; 

i 30 3) that all forces are created; because what they transscendentem on areas in which simple unit 
were that eludes our knowledge completely. Only we can say that they had the very existence. 
Furthermore, we can say categorically that they were not in the simple power unit; because the force is 
the nature, essentia , a thing in itself to continuous performance areas. But what was the simple unit in 
which nevertheless Everything exists contain the essence was to - that is, as we have seen clearly veiled 
our minds with an impenetrable veil for all time. 

The transcendent area is in fact no longer exists. But if we go with the imagination back in time to the 
beginning of the inherent territory, we can figuratively represent the transcendent next to the immanent 
field. But then both separates a gap that can never be exceeded by any means of the Spirit. Only one 
thin filaments bridges the bottomless abyss: it is the existence. We can do this on thin filaments all the 
forces of immanent domain to the transcendent over: this load can wear it. But once the forces have 


15 



arrived on the far field, they also listen to, to be forces for human thought, and therefore the important 
theorem: 

But although all that is, was not created out of nothing, but vorweltlich already existed, so is all that is, 
any force just emerged as a force, that she had a definite beginning. 

27th 

So to these results we get when we go back from any current being in his past. Now we want to check 
the behavior of things on the continued rolling points of the present. 

First, we look into the inorganic realm, the realm of simple chemical forces, such as oxygen, chlorine, 
iodine, copper etc. As far as our experience goes, the case has never occurred, that any one of these 
forces, shown in the same circumstances, other properties have; well, no case be I known i 31 where a 
chemical force had been destroyed. Do I come sulfur in all possible connections and come out of all 
possible again, he shows his old properties again and his Quantum is neither increased, nor been 
reduced; at least everyone in the latter regard, the unshakable certainty is that it is so, and rightly so: for 
nature is the only source of truth, and their statements are to be considered alone. Never lie, and asked 
about the issue at hand, she answers every time that there is no simple chemical force can pass. 
Nevertheless, we must admit that this statement against skeptical attacks can be made. What they 
wanted to me then respond when I generally attacking and without mentioning even a single feature in 
the matter, resulting in the transience which objektivirenden force could be closed in it, as said: It is 
true that until now no case has become known where a simple substance had been destroyed; but you 
are allowed to say that will teach the experience in the future of all the same? Is it possible to a priori 
anything to say about the power? Not at all; because the force is, the real thing is totally independent of 
the knowing subject in itself. The mathematician may well in the wild of limitations of the 
mathematical space - pulling sets of unconditional validity of the formal of things in themselves, 
because of the mathematical space underlying point room has the ability - whether it is equal only in 
our imagination auseinanderzutreten in three dimensions, and because every thing is extended itself in 
three dimensions. It is also no matter whether I speak of a certain real succession in the nature of a 
thing in itself, or whether I translate the same in the ideal succession, that they bring in a ZeitverhaltniB; 
because the ideal Succession keeps pace with the real.But the naturalist must Nothing from the nature 
of the ideal connection infer substance, which would affect the force; because I can not repeat often 
enough that the essence of matter in every respect, toto genere , is different from the nature of the force, 
although these until it pulls the trigger smallest their properties exactly in the matter. Where are 
touching the real power and the ideal material, since it is precisely the important point, from where the I 
i 32 border between the ideal and the real has to be drawn where the difference between object and 
thing in itself, between appearance and cause of the phenomenon, between the world as representation 
and of the world as a force is evident. 

As long as the world is, as long as things will be extended to her in three directions; as long as the 
world is, as long as this power spheres will move; but you know because what new - (new for you, not 
emerging) - laws of nature you will be discovered later experience that will make you appear in a whole 
new light the essence of power? For it is rock solid, that on the inner nature of the force never a priori 
But a statement is always possible only on the basis of experience, but euere experience complete? Do 
you take already all laws of nature in your hand? 

What did you answer me? 

That now even those skeptical attacks on the above sentence can be made, should we agree very careful 
and determine us, the question for physics, and especially for metaphysics in which the threads of all 
our investigations are converging on purely immanent areas open to keep. But here, in the analysis, 
where we the thing is opposed to itself as something very general, where we therefore take the lowest 


16 



point of the thing in itself, we must unconditionally the statement of the nature that a simple chemical 
force never fades cheap, , however, we take a chemical compound, such as hydrogen sulfide, this force 
is already transitory. It is neither sulfur nor hydrogen, but a third, a fixed self-contained power sphere, 
but a destructible force. Dismantle I put them in the ground forces, it is destroyed. Now where is this 
peculiar force a very specific, both as different impression made from 

hydrogen to me from the sulfur? She's dead, and we can think that this compound at all, under certain 
circumstances, from the appearance of always occur to us quite well. 

In the organic realm consistently Same is the case. The difference between the chemical compound and 
the organism will occupy us in physics; Here it does not concern us nothing, each I i 33 -organism is 
composed of simple chemical forces, such as sulfur and hydrogen sulfide in a single higher, entirely 
closed and uniform, force are canceled. We bring an organism in the chemical laboratory and examine 
it, we will always, he was an animal or a plant found only simple chemical forces in it. 

Now what does the nature when we ask them about living in an organism higher power? She says the 
power is there, as long as the organism lives, he dissolves, so the power is dead. Another testimony she 
gives off not because they can not. It is a testimony of the utmost importance, which can rotate only a 
darkened mind. The death of an organism, the tied up in forces are free again without the slightest loss, 
but the force that dominated the chemical forces since then, is dead. Should they still live apart from 
them? Where's the hydrogen sulfide destroyed? where the higher power of the burned plant or animal 
slain? They float between heaven and earth? They flew on a star of the Milky 

Way? The nature, the only source of truth alone can provide information,and nature says they are dead. 
Impossible as it is for us to think of a creation out of nothing, so easily we can think destroys us all 
organisms and all chemical compounds forever. 

From these considerations, we draw the following results: 

1) are all simple chemical forces, as far as our experience goes far, indestructible; 

2) all chemical compounds and all organic forces, however, are destructible. 

The confusion of substance with the chemical simple forces is as old as philosophy itself the law of the 
permanence of substance is.: 

"The substance is uncreated and eternal." 

According to our investigations, the substance is an ideal link, due to the a priori form of the 
understanding of matter, and the nature of a totality of forces. The intended law would read in our 
language: All the forces in the world are uncreated and eternal. 

We have however, found in good research: 
i 34 1) that all forces are without exception, originated; 

2) that only a few forces are immortal. 

At the same time we made to reconsider this eternity of simple chemical forces in physics and 
metaphysics the reservation. 

28 th 

We have seen that every thing has a force sphere itself, and that the same not a vain pretense is that the 
a priori form of the understanding space conjures up its own resources. We have also, of extremely 
important means of linking community recognized that these forces are at the deepest dynamic context, 
and thus arrived at a totality of forces in a tightly closed Collectiv unit. But hereby we maintained the 
finiteness of the universe, which is to establish closer now. Will we previously clear 
about the importance of the matter. Not a closed finite intrinsic region which would be surrounded on 
all sides by an infinite transcendental, it is; but because the transcendent area no longer exists in fact, a 
alone does existirendes immanent, which is to be finite. 


17 



How can these seemingly audacious claim to be justified? We only have two paths before us. Either we 
provide evidence with the help of imagination, or purely logical. - The point room is, as I said above, 
the same complacent to give a grain of sand and a palace the border. The only condition is that it such, 
will sollicitirt from a reproducirten sensation of a thing in itself, or, failing. Now we have a 
present world: our earth among us, and the starry sky above us, and a naive mind it therefore may well 
seem that the idea of a finite world is possible. Science, however, destroys this illusion. Every day it 
extends the power sphere of the universe, or, more subjective, forcing daily point space of the mind to 
extend its three dimensions. The world is therefore the time being immeasurably great, that the mind 
can you still put no limit. Whether it will reach it, we must leave undecided.We must therefore refrain 
from outer space on a small scale in a similar manner I i 35 to make clear how we can make by plastic 
replica of the earth's surface the design of our earth we comprehensible, and there have even to say that 
we do not get in the way of presentation to the goal, so they can not prove clearly reflect the finite 
nature of the world , Thus, we only the inexorable logic remains. 

And, in fact, she finds it very easy to prove the finiteness of the world. 

The universe is not a single power, a single entity but a totality of finite power spheres. Now I can not 
give to this force spheres an infinite expansion; because first of all I would thus destroy the concept 
itself, then make the majority of the singular, that is the experience hit in the face. In addition to a 
single infinite no other force sphere has more space, and the essence of nature would simply be 
canceled, but a totality of finite power spheres must necessarily be finite. 

Against this objection would be that, although found only finite forces in the world, but that an infinite 
number of finite forces are present, therefore, the world is no totality, but it is infinite. 

Then must be answered: All forces of the world are either simple chemical forces, or combinations of 
such. The former are to include organizations and all connections are due to these few simple forces. 
Infinite, can not be a simple force as set forth above, if we may use any summarily described as 
immensely large. Consequently, the world, basically, the sum of the basic forces that finally all, that the 
world is finite. 

Why now something over and over again leans forward to against this outcome? Because reason with 
the mind molding space drives abuse. The space is only significant for the experience; he's just a 
condition a priori the possibility of experience, a means to detect the outside world. The reason is, as 
we have seen, only entitled to enter on its own space apart (as you press the pen of a stick sword) if it 
reproduces or for mathematics pure intuition of space I i 36 has to produce. It is clear that the 
mathematician has such a space necessary only in the smallest dimensions to demonstriren his 
Samtliche evidence; but it is also clear that just making the mathematical space for the mathematician 
is the rock on which the reason is perverse and commits the abuse. Because if we logically secure 
finiteness of the world (like so well it go up) to capture the image of endeavor us and let come to room 
for this purpose apart so immediately perverse reason causes the space, its dimensions beyond the 
borders of the world beyond to expand. Then the lawsuit is heard: we do have a finite world, but in a 
space that we can never finish because the dimensions extend constantly (or rather, although we have a 
finite worldbut in absolute nothingness). Against this there is only one agent. We have to base 
ourselves firmly on the logical finite nature of the world and to the knowledge that is a thing of thought 
to a limitless mathematical space with positive advanced point-space exists in our heads alone and has 
no reality. In this way, we are like immune and resist with critical prudence to the temptation to 
exaggerate lonely lust with our spirit and to betray the truth there. 

29th 

Likewise, only critical prudence can keep us ahead of other great dangers, which I will explain now. 


18 




As it is in the nature of the dot space that the zero in indefinitum occurs in three dimensions apart, so it 
is also in his nature to be any any pure (mathematical) space are becoming smaller, until the point 
space, that is zero. As the worm their feelers, he pulls his dimensions in back and is again unthatige 
mind form. This subjective ability, called space, can not be thought of differently constituted, because it 
is a condition of the possibility of experience alone predisposed to the outside world, without which it 
has no meaning. 

Now, however, as a matter of fact, the objects set the line as objects, on the other hand also help It is 
necessary to grasp the totality of all things in themselves, the universe, and to be unlimited in 
progression, as well as in retreating to zero, if she had a limit to the separation, she could not shape a 
real sphere of power beyond that frontier; and if it had a limit to retreat before zero, then all those 
spheres of force would be for our knowledge, which would lie between zero and this limit.In the last 
section we saw that reason with the immensity of the point-space drift abuse in divergence and could 
reach a finite universe in an infinite space. Now we have to light the abuse, the reason drives with the 
limitlessness of space in the back falls to zero, or in other words, we stand before the infinite 
divisibility of mathematical space. 

Let us imagine a pure space, such as a cubic inch, we can use this in indefinitum share, ie the recession 
of dimensions in the zero point is always prevented. We may share many years, centuries, millennia - 
always, we are faced with a remaining space that can be divided again and so on ad infinitum . This is 
the basis of the so-called infinite divisibility mathematical space, as on the divergence in infinitum of 
the dot space the infinity of the mathematical space based. 

But what we do, by starting from a certain space and they divide restless? We play with fire, we are big 
kids, each Prudent to beat on the fingers. Or is not comparable to that of children who, handle futile in 
the absence of parents, a loaded pistol that has a very specific purpose, our method? The space is 
intended only for the knowledge of the outside world; he should limit each thing in itself, it was as big 
as the Mont Blanc, or as small as a infusoria: that is his purpose as that of the loaded gun to stretch a 
burglar to the ground. Now we solve the room from the outside world and make him I 
i 38 by a dangerous toy, or as I have above, according Piickler, said: We drive with our spirit "lonely 
lust." 

30th 

The division in indefinitum of a given pure space, incidentally, has so far an innocent side as a thought- 
entity, a space which is located in the head of the part ends and has no reality, is divided. Its danger is, 
however, doubled if the infinite divisibility of mathematical space, almost sacrilegious, is transferred to 
the force, the thing in itself. The punishment follows the nonsensical begin immediately on the heels: 
the logical contradiction. Each chemical force is divisible; against this nothing can be objected, because 
that experience teaches. But it does not consist of parts before the division is not an aggregate of parts, 
because the parts are only really in the division itself. The chemical force is a homogeneous simple 
force of quite the same intensity and then based its divisibility, ie each detached portion is , by its 
nature, not the whole of the at least different. Now we see the real division from which both the nature 
its laws, and the man in plan of work accomplished to practischem benefits, and their results are always 
certain force sphere, so remains the idle frivolous division. 

The perverse reason some take a portion of a chemical force, such as a cubic inch iron, and informs him 
continually in thought, constantly in indefinitum , and finally gaining the conviction that they never, 
they want to share even trillions of years, came to an end. At the same time you say the logic that a 
cubic inch of iron, so a finite force sphere that could not possibly be composed of an infinite number of 
parts, so that it is completely inadmissible at all to speak of infinitely many parts of an object; because 


19 






only in the unfettered activity in indefinitum a faculty of knowledge is the support for the concept of 
infinity, I i 39 here so the unimpeded progressus the division, never, never on real areas. 

So into the cave the perverse reason can at the hands of the restless division, but, once in, it must also 
always forward. Back to the finite power sphere from which they went out, they can not. In this 
desperate situation she breaks away from their leader violently off and postulated the atom, that is a 
force sphere that should no longer be divisible. 

Of course, they can now, through concatenation of such atoms, for cubic inch iron back, but at what 
cost: it has set itself in contradiction with itself! 

Will the thinker remain honest, he must be prudent. The prudence is the only weapon against the abuse 
that feels like driving a perverse reason with our faculty of knowledge. In the present case is therefore 
not provided by us on real areas of the divisibility of the chemical forces in question. But we balk us 
with all his might, first, of the infinite divisibility of forces because such a can be claimed only if, in the 
most amazing way to the thing in the (also abused) being a faculty of knowledge is transmitted; 
secondly, the composition of the force from parts. So we reject the infinite divisibility of the force and 
the atom. 

As I said above, a faculty of knowledge, which will put all the forces that can occur in an experience 
that borders must necessarily be such that it can come apart without restriction and on the way back to 
zero, no border encounters. Let it, however, on one side, ie detached from the experience for which it is 
determined alone, and make conclusions which we drew from its nature, binding on the thing in itself, 
we fall into contradiction with the pure reason: one great evil! 

31st 

We have finally to escape even with a critical spirit a danger that rises out of time. 

The time is, as we know, an ideal combination , a posteriori , won on the basis of a priori form of 
presence I i 40 and is nothing without the basis of the real succession. With their powerful leadership, 
we reached the top of the world, to the border of a lost antediluvian existence of the transcendent area. 
Here she passes out, here it ends in a past eternity, which word is merely a subjective term for the lack 
of any and all real succession. 

The critical reason is content; not so perverse reason. This calls time again into life back and goads 
them into indefinitum weiterzueilen without real support, regardless of the prevailing eternity. 

Here lies naked than anywhere abuse to light, which can be made with a faculty of cognition. Empty 
moments are constantly connected and a line continues, which until transcendent areas probably had a 
solid, reliable basis, the real development, but now hovers in the air. 

We have to do here nothing else than to rely on pure reason and simply prohibit the foolish goings. 

Now if a parte ante real movement whose subjective scale is the time alone, had a beginning, it is 
therefore by no means to say that they a parte post must have an end. The solution to this problem 
depends on the answer to the question: the simple chemical forces are indestructible? For it is clear that 
the real movement must be endless if the simple chemical forces are indestructible. 

So it follows: 1) that the real movement has taken an initial; 2) that the real movement is endless. The 
latter judgment we make with the reservation of a revision in physics and metaphysics. 

32nd 

These studies and the earlier of our faculty of knowledge justify I am convinced the real transcendental 
or critical idealism, not alone but really can with words to things in their empirical reality, that they 
stretch and movement, independent of the subject, of space and time, grants. His main I point i 41 is 
located in the material objectifying force, and it is transcendental in this respect, which word denotes 
the dependence of the object from the subject. 


20 





He is critical idealism against it because he perverted reason (perversa ratio curbs) and does not allow 
her: 

a. to misuse the causality for the preparation of infinite series; 

b. the time of their indispensable basis, the real development to replace and turn them into a line of 
empty moments that come from infinity and hurries into infinity; 

c . the mathematical space and the substance for keeping things as mere thoughts more, and 
cl . In addition to impute absolute insistence that real space infinity and this real substance. 

Furthermore, the critical idealism even less the perverse reason allows the arbitrary transmission of 
such chimeras to things in themselves and annulled their bold statements: 

a. the pure existence of things fall into the endless Causalreihen; 

b. the universe is infinite and chemical forces are divisible in infinitum, or they are an aggregate of 
atoms; 

c . the World Development had no beginning; 
cl . All forces are indestructible. 

The two propositions which we had to make: 

1) the simple chemical forces are indestructible, 

2) the development of the world has no end, 
we declared in need of revision. 

As an important positive result we have then to lead that brought us the transcendental idealism to a 
transcendent areas that can not harass the researchers, because it no longer exists. 

In this way the critical idealism freed every honest and loyal nature observation of inconsistencies and 
fluctuations and makes the nature again the only source of all truth that no one, attracted by deception 
shapes and mirages, impunity leaves: for he must perish in the desert, 
i 42 

A guy who speculated, 

Is like an animal on barren heath, 
led by an evil spirit around in circles, 

And all around is beautiful green pasture. 

(Goethe.) 

33rd 

The most important for our further investigations result of the previous is that things in themselves for 
the subject substantial objects, independent of the subject, moving forces with a certain effectiveness 
sphere are. We acquired it through careful analysis of the outward faculty of cognition, so completely 
on the ground of the objective world; because we had the extra time on the way to the inside as well 
have produced in our consciousness of other things in our body or but more than the knowledge that the 
thing the object underlying itself is a force of a certain extent and having a certain mobility can not be 
obtained on the way to the outside. What the force and is in itself as Am working as they move up - this 
all we can not see outside. The inherent philosophy would have to conclude here, if we were only 
knowing subject; because what they would testify due to this one-sided truth about the art, about the 
actions of men and the movement of all mankind, would be of doubtful value: it could be and could not 
be so short it would lose the safe ground below and all courage, and, therefore, would have to cancel 
their research. 

But the way out is not the only one who is open to us. We can penetrate into the very heart of power; 
because every person belongs to nature, is itself a force and that a self-conscious force. The essence of 
the force must be recognized in self-consciousness. 

So we want to draw from the second source of experience, self-confidence because now. 


21 



We immerse ourselves in our inner being, so listen to the senses and the mind, the outward faculty of 
knowledge, I i 43 entirely to function on irish; they will be posted as it were, and only the upper faculty 
of cognition remain in action. We have no impressions to which we would have to look for a different 
cause of them only in the interior; we can also internally not make space and are completely 
immaterial, that is in us the law of causality does not apply and we are free from space and matter. 
Although we are completely non-spatial now, that can not get to view a form of our interior, we are 
therefore not a mathematical point. We feel our effectiveness sphere just as far as she goes, just missing 
us to make it the means. Until the very tips of our body the common feeling of force is sufficient, and 
we are not concentrated in one point, nor deliquescent in indefinitum , but in a certain sphere. This 
sphere I shall call from now on the real individuality: it is the first cornerstone of a purely immanent 
philosophy. We examine ourselves further, we find ourselves, as stated above, in perpetual motion. Our 
strength is essential resting and restless. Never, not even for the duration of the smallest part, of a 
moment, we are in absolute peace; because silence is death, and the smallest possible interruption of 
life would Verloschung the flame of life. We are so much restless; However, we feel only in motion in 
self-consciousness. 

The state of our innermost being touched as it always, as a real point of the movement, consciousness, 
or floats, as I said earlier, the presence at the point of the movement. Our inner life, we are always 
conscious in the present. If, however, the presence of the main thing and stands therefore the point of 
movement on it, so my being would have during each intermittency of my self-consciousness (in 
blackouts during sleep) total rest, that death would hit it and it could not re-ignite his life. The 
assumption that really the point of the movement of the present (the real movement of 
the time) is dependent, how that space things lend expansion, as absurd as it necessary for the I 
i 44 was course of development of philosophy, which I want to express that it can not give a higher 
degree of absurdity. 

By now the reason of transition from present is aware of the present, she wins the earlier discussed 
ways that time and at the same time the real succession, which I by now, in relation to the real 
individuality, will call the real movement: it is the second pillars of the inherent philosophy. 

It is the greatest deception in which one can be biased if one believes, on the way to the inside, we 
would like on the way to the outside, knowing and the knower would be a Detected opposite. We are in 
the middle of things in themselves, from an object can no longer be any question, and we immediately 
grasp the core of our being, by selfconsciousness, the feeling. It is an immediate awareness of our being 
by the Spirit, or rather by the sensitivity. 

So what is the core of our Inside there entschleiernde force? It is the will to live. 

Whenever we enter also the way in - we may find ourselves in apparent calm and indifference, we may 
be saved tremble under the kiss of beauty, we may rush and run around in the wildest passion or melt 
into pity, we like "sky high shout" or "be sad" to death - we are always will to live. We want to be 
there, always be there; because we want to existence, we are and because we want to existence, we 
remain in existence. The will to live is the innermost core of our being; he is always active, though 
often not on the surface. To be convinced of this, to bring the weary individual in real danger of death 
and the will to live will reveal themselves, carrying on all trains with terrible clarity the desire for 
existence: his hunger for life is insatiable. 

But if man really do not want this life, he annihilated immediately by deeds. Most wish for death, they 
do not want him. This desire is a developing individuality, which is identical to the found external 
moving effectiveness sphere. But he is thoroughly devoid of matter. I 

i 45 This immediate apprehension of the force on his way to the inside and free of matter I consider to 
seal that expresses the nature under my epistemology. Not the space, not the time to distinguish the 


22 



thing in itself from the object, but the matter alone makes the object to a mere phenomenon which is 
related to the knowing subject and falls. 

As the most important outcome of the analysis, we consider the totally independent from the subject 
individual moving will to live firmly in hand. He is the key that leads into the heart of physics, 
aesthetics, ethics, politics and metaphysics. 


23 



