Fall 94 “es 


BIXTY 





nen Art Spiegelman chose 
the form of a graphic novel 
for the story of his parents’ 
survival of the Holocaust, people 
didn’t know what to think. The New 
York Times couldn't decide whether 
to classify it as fiction or nonfiction. 
(Nonfiction prevailed, over the objec- 
tions of an editor who suggested ring- 
ing SpiegeIman's doorbell to see ifa 
giant mouse would respond.) The jux- 
taposition of “comics” and Auschwitz 
was unnerving. What was Maus, any- 
way? Its originality and moral force 








hours of 
interviews 
with his 
father, thou- be’ 
sands of 

beautiful color 
sketches, and 
countless draft 
versions. Each page of The Complete 





Maus is linked to this source materi- 
al, so it’s easy to move “behind” a 
finished panel to see what informed 
it—most poignantly the voice of 
Spiegelman’s father, Viadek, matter 








THE COMPLETE MAUS 

















propelled it onto the bestseller list, 
and the two-volume book went on 
to win a Pulitzer Prize. 

When Maus was exhibited at 
the Museum of Modern Art in New 
York in 1992, we were struck by 
the possibilities of bringing 
together all the elements—pre- 
liminary sketch 
archival posters and photographs, 
prisoners’ drawings, notebooks, and 
commentary—on a CD-ROM. In fact, 
Spiegelman, who proposed the idea 





es, audio tapes, 








a “portable version” of the museum 
exhibit, The product of an intense 
collaboration, the CD-ROM is true to 
the spirit of the graphic novel but it 
is also an original work of art in its 
own right. It's also beautiful: backlit 
and enlarged, the panels look ter- 
rific. Spiegelman 
took thirteen years 
to complete both 
volumes of Maus, 
drawing on 








eighteen 





















recounting horrors with an 
immediacy that tightens the throat, 
or perhaps a contemporary photo- 
graph or a clip from Spiegelman’s 

it to Auschwitz (he calls 








own vi 





these home videos “three-dimen- 
sional footnotes’). In addition, Spiegel- 
man is interviewed at length, in both 
audio and video, discussing the mak- 
ing of Maus and commenting on the 
form, history, and ideas behind this 
profoundly powerful work. 








About the author: Co-founder of 
RAW magazine, Art Spiegelman’s 
work can be seen in many periodi- 
cals and in galleries around the 
world, Honors for Maus include a 
special Pulitzer Prize and a 
Guggenheim fellowship. 





“Completely absorbing. A layered story about 
the creative process, about a father and son, 
and about a great human tragedy.” 
—Lynn Decker, Springfield, OR 


THE COMPLETE MAUS 


@ccmausm| 





















for toch inf 































mo ) 


‘ AN INTERVIEW WITH 


ART 


\ SPIEGELMAN 


Congratulations on Maus. It's 
terri 

It’s amazing, 'm so im- 
pressed with it I'm thinking of 
buying a CD player. 

Any thoughts about the 
medium now that you've had a 
chance to work in CD-ROM? 

I compare it to the magic of 
the Edison cylinder, which let 
people hear music in their homes 
for the first time. CD-ROM is an 
ur-version of some technology 
that’s hard to imagine now, but 
that will become as common- 
ing symphonic 
music piped into your home. 
You say that CD-ROM is an 
ective way to show all the 
layers of Maus. 

I think CD-ROMs imply a new 
kind of narrative. For years I've 

















place as hz 














said that I'm interested in comic 
stories (in the sense of stories of 
a building; the word comes from 
the medieval Latin historia, for 





picture windows in a church). 
Instead of just moving through 
time, all of a sudden stories now 
move through space, so that 
architecture becomes the reign- 
ing metaphor. This is especially 
true for Maus, in that I thought of 
each page as a building which 
you could move in and out of as 





TO ORDER BY PHONE(s) 1-800-446-2001 








though each panel were a win- 
dow. You can read Maus by mov- 
ing through time, but you can 
also dive into each panel, digging 
for sketches or whatever. Each 
page is also treated as a place. 

What do you think Vladek 
would have made of the disc? 

Comics were already too 
high-tech for Vladek. 

Have you, fielded any 
interesting commen: 
family or friends? 

My daughter Nadja 
looked at it for a sec- 











from 


ond or two and said, 

“Now can we put on 
Silly Noisy House?” 
(see page 9) 











‘e get to have a 


F : } eee WHO BUI et AMERICA? 





























4 This is 
i - - ; 
—! ly American Social History Project, Roy Rosengueig, Steve Brier & Josh Brown 
What's Roy ~ —__—_— 

Rosenzweig's Once in a while something comes on the _just reading about the invention of cinema 
favorite part? market that’s so well designed that it looks _but seeing the first film narrative, The Great 
The sidebars, new but feels familiar; we're not sure how it Train Robbery, in its entirety. Black Elk’s 
because people like works but we know just how to recollection of the 

them and they're find out. Who Built America? is massacre of 
surprisingly reveal- one of those inventions, and Wounded Knee is 


ing. The first cross- what it fits so intuitively is the here, as are 
word puzzle, for inquiring mind. It's 
example, asks for a 
five-letter answer to 
“What we should all 
be.” People today 

say, “Happy.” When 


Chinese immi- 
familiar because grant Lee Chew's 


account of life as a 





the look and feel of 
the original text launderer and 
haven't been lost: merchant on both 


coasts, Julia 





it’s still a history 








I showed the pro- book. It’s groundbreaking Nelson's musical rebuttal to the charge that 
gram to a group of because instead of simply swallowing the the act of voting would strip women of their 
FEW WO ry printed page as “truth,” we can check out for | feminine charms—and literally thousands 











ourselves how the text was woven from the more harrowing and inspiring documents, 

R oY threads of actual events. How? By accessing rom Mormon farm women, gay cowboys, 

some of the thousands of original source docu- | African-American “peons,” Wobbly 

eames the indefatigable authors for this CD-ROM and activists who shaped the United 
We've spent hours with this 















colleagues, a promi- (along with graphs, charts, games, and State: 
nent colonial histo- quizzes). It'sa whole | program and only touched the 
Q) rian suggested », and we can't wait to 
“pious.” What was 
the correct early- 
twentieth-century 
answer? “Moral.” Or 


new way to study his- | suri 








tory, andthe chance | get back to it 
to engage firsthand in 


the process totally About the authors: Roy Rosen- 





grabs us. weig, Professor of History at George Mason 














take the early days Because we're history wonks? Hardly University, is the author or coauthor of 
of telephone conver- Because of the scholarship and the intelli- several books. Steve Brier is the Director, 
sation, spoofed in gent design, yes, but also because of the and Josh Brown the Media Director, of the 
the vaudeville rou- immediacy of the experience. It’s one thing | Center for Media and Learning and the 
tine “Cohen on the to read about the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire of | American Social History Project at Hunter 








Telephone.” Because 1911, but when we hear Ida § k about | College of the City University of New York. 
the line stayed open, working conditions in the sweatshops, or see WHO BUILT AMERICA? 

people needed photographs of young women's bodies laid | [ereatewes pe voce 
something to shout out on the sidewalk, we're there. Imagine not | (@CHHOBUM |] rr inn n@8)][*49 


| Education Edition including five CDs 





out so the person on ; oT ae Spe 
the other end would aoe a2 b and teaching guide available. 


know to pick up—so , ? HO BUILT AMERICA? EDUCATION EDITION 


“hello” got invented. 



































with any order over $50! 


shirt of your choice 


Get a FREE T 





mell of 














anniversary gift 

from ny husband. 

It's great.” 
Carolyn Meisel 


“She loves it! 
(Pm not quite 
the baseball fan 
she is.)" 

David Meisel, 
Geneseo, NY 


of bands). The “random” 
function makes the obvi- 


his British publisher does things 
right. Each of the more than 200 






instruments in this elegant vis- ous point—that humans have 





ual encyclopedia pops up on its own made music out of almost every- 


card with a beauti- thing under the sun—in a very 





ful illustration, an entertaining way, especially since 


MUSICAL INSTRUMENT S || 4y Dorling Kindersley 


explanation of the instrument's ori-__ the sounds play automati- 














gin and musical role, and a first-rate _cally. The contents range 
digital audio clip several bars long (which plays through __ from the didjeridu, an ab- 

if you click on the Fact Box—long enough to learn that _ original instrument developed 
the zilli masa, Turkish tong cymbals, evolved from over 1,100 years ago, to the 
And now we 





ample 





tools originally used to pick up hot coals). Some offer a digital 





variety of musical samples. The piano, for instance, is know not only what an atumpan, 
‘a sound like, but also how to 





demonstrated in four modes: orchestral, chamber, jazz, an anklung, and a mbi 
und Box, which demon- pronounce their name 






and blues. We loved the § The emphasis is on sound and 


SIT 


you play notes, 


*s the range of selected instruments or lets graphics rather than text, but any disappointed scholars 





and we were flush with pride after com- will be elbowed away from the screen by children 
“playing” the harpsichord or learning how the jew's 
harp got its name (actually, nobody knows). 


MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 










h posing a short but haunting piece for the accordion 
s The straightforward contents page offers four ways 
AN / through the material: by region, instrument, instru- 






ment family type, and ensemble (rock groups, 








chamber music, Gamelans, and four types 














he subtitle struck us as Map (the big picture), synchro- A request from 

Q@) | pretty ambitious—until we fa eae dilealldaas nized with an inset display Now What Software: 
loaded the program. Other from the Political Map (with _ Just don’t ask us to zoom 

atlases may be just as “real,” but detailed statistics about each in any farther. If you 


country and aspectaculanset_ _want to see your license 
of continental mosaic images), plates, please—don't call 


none are anywhere near as beau- 





tiful, entertaining, and intelli- 





gently designed, We felt as small the Chronosphere (it sets us, call the Department 
as a flea looking at earth from global patterns of day and night _ of Motor Vehicles. 
many miles up (or is it out?), but compensated by manipu- __ in motion), and the USA Relief 

lating nighttime across the globe fora warm, Godlike feel. Map. If there are any pages left in your passport, browse 


ing. We zoomed in on the Kalahari desert from outer space, __ the Gallery for images like the astonishingly revealing 


SMALL BLUE PLANET: te near prevure avtas|) fy Now What Zoftuare 


we checked out thermal inan Icelandic glacier, we Earth at Night (see the West Coast’s Highway 5, gas flares”. 
scrolled across a cool to} map ofthe U.S., and we —_in Tashkent, the Trans-Siberian Railroad, and the Tights if 
couldn't get the adjective ‘awesome” out of our head. from a Japanese squid-fishing fleet). D 


























Earth is, and so is. Small Blue Planet, We hate to think of where most of our tax dollars go, 
A gorgeous testament to the digital revolution in cartog- but Small Blue Planet is enough to make us cheer every 
raphy, Small Blue Planet keeps firmly in sight the fact that __ satellite up there. 
“mapmakers are humans, not machines” (someone named 









Wright said that in 1942). Appropriately, the reis About the authors: James McMi 

one of the best we've Seed. The Control Panel isloaded _ing degree from the University of 

with smart and intuitive tools; an Interrobang button for ‘came to maps Via computer 

cartographic and technological information, a Marquee tool “chips. Landscape architect . ae 
for copying images, a compass for zipping around the map _Eleesa’Hager’s approach is Mtriendly, By far 


in any direction, a *red dot” to logate images of particular ergonomic and environmental. a gc or € 
beauty or interest, a set of Annot tools,andtoo many —_ The partnership, based in San 2 
Patten, 


























more to list. The Control Panel also tracks our path by Francisco, is clearly inspired. e 
“stacking” miniature screens as buttons, sivingretrace” a SMALL BLUE PLANET| 

whole new spin, A central navigation screen (the Grid) See ee | 

gives access to any of the four modules: the Global Reliet — [@CSMALLM [| MHCSMALLW["79"] | “Wild stutth—siephen 


Lawson, -. NY 





may have seen frogs 
the Nature Channel, 


‘our children 
doing it on 
but are they 


habits of the elusive Tooli Bug? Yes! We can think of no 


ready for the mating 


more qualified instructor than Rodney Greenblat on mat- 
-Ray Shorts”), ani- 





ters of natural science, anatomy (see 








RODNEY’S WONDER WINDOW 





ly, Rodney Alan Greenblat 








= = 


a! 


many other topics crucial to a well- om 


mal husbandry (“Pet Shop”), woodcraft 
(“Fire”), maritime history (“Sloop”), and 





rounded education. In fac 





, regular expo- 


sure to Rodney’s Wonder Window will guarantee your 





child's admission to an Ivy League university! 

So we're exaggerating. Actually, one of Wonder 
Window's great virtues is the complete absence of 
any pedagogical intent. Unlike most kids’ programs, 

it’s not a Le: 
Game. CD-R 


expect education, 





arning Experience masquerading as a Fun 





M/Multimedia actually warns you not to 





saying instead, “ 
est CD you can buy.” 


his is probably the silli- 
It’s pure 
fun, and kids play it over 
and over, respond- 
ing to Rodney's 

zany sensibility, wild 





colors, goofy graphics, 
ear-bending sound effects, 
boundless imagination, and com- 
plete lack of condescension. 





Grown-ups go for it too; 

we couldn't resist making 
Mr. Rotato Head 
do his thing in 







three 


dimensions, and 


on our SR, HS * 





checking up 
Digital House Plant (it grows on your hard dri 
you forget to water it). Take a break, and laugh out loud. 


»...unless 





About the author 
Rodney Alan Greenblat, 
a New York artist and 
pioneer in computer- 
generated artwork, is 
partial to plaids. He is 
hard at work on 

Da. 
ing from 


Voyager. 


‘loids, forthcom- 





ps) 





RODNEY" S WONDER WINDOW 


[@MCRODNER [fa wane) 
































The kids were bored one Sunday 
night so I started animating 
this little fly 
who was roam- 
ing around a guy's 
head. The guy’s 
face looked irri- 
tated, and when the fly. 
got to the right spot, the 
guy ate the fly. I called my 
creation Fly Guy, and was so 
















RODNE Y 











THE STORY OF 
WONDER WINDOW 











fp 


— 








pleased with myself that I began 
to make more animations. I hap- 
pened to be having a show of my 
wooden sculptures in an art 
gallery one day so I decided to 
put my Macintosh movies into 
the show. Everybody liked them! 
‘Well, to make a long story 
short, all those Macintosh art 
pieces became Wonder Window. 
Lots of people ask me if 
Rodney's Wonder Window is for 
kids. Heck no! It’s for people 
who like to crawl under the din- 
ing room table and play fort, or 
who like to make jokes while 
other people are drinking milk 
so that it comes out of their 
noses, or who can do a good 
impression of Yogi Bear. It’s for 
everybody in the world who has 
ever dreamed of having an imagi- 
nary giant invisible bunny for a 
friend. So belt on your Rotato 
Head, probe your pet, and watch 
out for male Tooli Bugs, ‘cause 
Wonder Window is a way of life! 


TO ORDER BY eax (2) 1-914 591-6481 


To ORDER BY PHONE (=) 1-800-446-2001 


edro Meyer is not the 

only artist exploring 

the “Brave New World 
of digital truth,” but he’s cer- 
tainly the first traditional docu- 
mentary photographer to go 


so far out on a limb. This is an 





important work. 
At the opening of the 





uths & Fictions exhibit in Riverside, 
California, we scrutinized each mesmerizing photograph, looked to 





see if the caption said “digitally 


ONS || by Pedro Meyer | altered” (which it did more often 


than not), then struggled to figure 






















Few photographers have 
approached the digital 
age with such intellectual 
relish and the willingness 
to reconsider a life's work 
as has Pedro Meyer. Not 
only hos, this Mexican 
photog@pher been a 
budge between the pl 
fozraplite communities of 
the Northand S6uth, but 
Also between those of the 
analog andidigital ages” 
Pred Ritchin, author \ 





Of tn Our Owd Image: 
The Coming Kevolution 


in Photography 4 








out where photographic reality left off and digital image kicked in. 
When we got our hands on the CD-ROM, we dutifully revisited the 


exhibit in the virtual “Gallery.” Then, like children rifling a magician’s 





pockets, we jumped to the Digital Studio section to see how, and why, 
the composite images were created. (Only twenty are featured in this 
way, alas.) Not until Meyer's revealing narrative (available in both 
English and Spanish) had sunk in a bit did we stop to consider some 
of the larger issues. 

Remember when photographs emerged from trays of photochemi 
cals? When their role (think of the family album) was to document 
events? “Photographic reality is an expression that has defined our 
notion of visual truth,” Jonathan Green, Director of the California 
Museum of Photography, points out in his introduction. “Pedro 
Meyer's new digital photos call into question this century-old con. 
cept.” Even Meyer's unaltered images deliberately juxtapose bizarre 
elements and pose unsettling questions about race, religion, and 
commercialism 

Meyer's inquiry doesn’t stop with basic issues of photographic rep 
resentation. In the Correspondence section he turns our computer 


en into a forum in which creative people from eighteen countries 





discuss the cultural implications 





of the digital revolution. The 
responses are marvelously var 
ied—in format, frame of refer 
ence, and attitude. Some people 
clutch their Olivettis and quake, 
while others embrace the new 
freedom. Our favorite comment 
was from Sylvia Stevens: “Form 
and content always take awhile to 
get to know each other. Courtships 
in any form are important.” 

That this pioneering work is 
sparking international debate 
about the cultural implications 
of the digital revolution comes as 
no surprise 
TRUTHS & FICTIONS 
Foectsats py Vovacen 


[@CTRUTHM |] sori ove nG)][49"" 


4 book of Pedro Meyer's digital 
































photographs will be published by 
Aperture in the spring of 1995. 








ive hundred people in business 
suits sat in the audience at 
Digital World. They knew all 

about computers for number crunching 





or word processing or game playing, but 
the idea of the computer as a medium 
of creative expression had never oc- 
curred to them. When I Photograph 


to Remember was shown for the first 





time, nobody left the room. Many cried. 
In the hands of artist Pedro Meyer, the 
computer was revealed for the first 
time as a stunningly personal and 
powerful tool. 





“Let me introduce you to my parents. & ‘ 
Their names are Liesel and Ernesto.” . 
With this invitation we enter Meyer's Ka 
intimate, deeply moving chronicle of NN 
“in ‘ 


their final years. The form is that of an 


I PHOTOGRAPH TO REMEMBER 


electronic photo album, whose “pages” turn as the author 


narrates (in English or Spanish) the story behind each by Pedro. Meyer 


image. Meyer doesn’t 








































pull any punches, and we marveled at how 


unflinchingly hi 





mera documents diagno- 
sis, reprieve, intimacy, death. But there is 

not an ounce of sensationalism, not a wasted 
syllable, not a gratuitous image in this family 


memoir. We come away not 





voyeurs but as privileged 
witnesses to what the 

author calls the “complicity 
of tenderness 
mother and father. We're 


” between his 





grateful, too, that it opens a way for us to learn and think 
about death, such a taboo subject in our society. In the 
words of Rolling Stone, “I Photograph to Remember is a 
universal work.” 





About the author: Pedro Meyer, an internationally 
renowned photographer, has won numerous awards, 
including a Guggenheim fellowship. His work hz 





appeared in more than 125 exhibitions and hangs in the permanent collections of 
major international museums. Published volumes of his photography include the 


besieelling T PHOTOGRAPH TO REMEMBER 


(Mirror of Thorns). He lives in [es o7 = wy vovese 


|L PHOTOGRAPH TO REMEMBER) 
Mexico City and Los Angeles. [@C1PHoTm |[MictPHoTw||*"30™ 








vejo de 
































It was unbelievably com- 
pelling. At the end of the 
Digital World demonstra- @) 
tion, it was immediately 
obvious who in the audi- 

ence had lost a parent. I 

got out of the auditorium, 
picked up the phone, got 

on the red-eye, and went 

to visit my dad in New 





STEVE FRANZESE RECALLS 


“THE FIRST TIME 
ISAW THE CO-ROM” 


York. What plans did I 
have to change? It 








doesn’t mat- 
ter. I Photo- 
graph to 
Remember 
put things in 
perspective. I 
made a lot of 
trips after 
that (my dad 
passed away 
last summer) and was. 





even inspired to write a 
collection of prose 

vignettes which I called 
“I Write to Remember.” 


© were sure we wouldn't like Take Five. It sounds too New Age; we don't have — 
carpal tunnel syndrome (yet); and so what if sitting in front of a computer usually 
turns into an endurance contest—who has time to relax? That was until we actually Men 
tried the program. And you know what? It works. i 
The creator of Take Five looked at how we usually use computers—as work tools—and 





slings as opposed to data, 





then set her sights on the right brain. “I wanted to work with fe 
explains Dina Silver (who swears she's a very left-brain person), “to use computers to experi- 

ence as well as to learn.” Refreshing and unconventional, Take Five offers four different 

arge mental batteries. It’s noninvasive: the 





;, soothe frazzled nerves, and rec 





ways to ease aching muscle 
exercises can be done at your own speed, at your own desk, and do not involve wearing leotards 

send a celestial ball gliding (or zooming) through space. Pick a pleasing 
ck, and let it take you light- 





In “Music of the Spheres, 
soundtrack—from the sounds of outer space to Peruvian flute music—sit 





years away from the office. 


“aN 





JTAKE FIVE | 6y Bina situen 














“Stretch Yourself” bills itself as “a physical therapist at your fingertips.” Grainy but 


* % “GREAT! Demonstrats 
acceptable QuickTime movies demonstrate exercises to restore energy and flexibility to ogi 


200 nurse-educators ag 











whatever part of the body you've selected. In a welcome alternative to tiresome exercise an example of how togse 
videos, you can develop, customize, and save your favorite routines. multimedia, and they laved it!” 
Sick of that tired poinsettia and lousy view? Can't afford a plane ticket? Take a virtual | —Cl?stiue Bolwolk” 
holiday with one of the forty-two “photographic escapes” in “Visual Vacation”: autumn ssam aaa, GA , 
foliage, fireworks, moonlit lagoons, sunsets galore, a gallery of gorgeous images. You can 4 ase Take Fippall the time, \ 


but most of the accompanying soundtracks have a nature theme: loons, frogs _ hpeause it’s vagy soothing and 


songbirds, a tropical rain forest. also very evogétive. When I'm 
‘The most ambitious and innovative done, I'm inafiifferent space: 
relaxed and intellectually 


agery to enhance creativity, solve problems, and relax your body and mind. One set of z 
bd : satisfied —Cella Irvine, 
exercises focuses on physical issues; the other addresses mental health and personal growth. Now York, NF 





opt for jazz 








section is “The Mind’s Eye,” which uses guided im- 











Sound impossible? Surprise yourself. 





TAKE FIVE 
anta Monica and, between earthquakes, [_oe ts Se 7 eet 


@MCTAKEDSH |] et in nS ][DO™ 








About the author: Dina Silver lives in 
fires, floods, mudslides, and riots, is turning to Take Five more and more. 


























Winner 
of the Parents’ 
Choice Awar 








ruth in titles: it’s silly, and 
it’s noisy. And what two 
things do kids like best? 


Every children’s program operates on the principle of 
click-and-something-happens but A Silly Noisy House has a wit 
and unpredictability that set it apart. As you explore a house full of 
teddy bears, fun stuff happens: timers go off, phones ring, birthday bal- 
loons pop, cowboy boots clatter like galloping hooves, nursery rhymes 

















SILLY NOISY HOUSE}! éy Peggy Weit 





and favorite songs emerge from the most unlikely spots. (“Noisy” 
doesn't do justice to the audio; it’s absolutely inspired.) Play games like 
Pin the Tail on the Donkey and a wonderful audio version of Concen- 
tration; match the sounds and get a different picture every time. Open 
the fridge, go for that dairy shelf, and get a totally silly tongue twister 
about better butter. Explore a cookbook, click on the cookie cutter, and 
watch each animal gallop, roar, or cluck off to the cookie sheet. Slide 
down a trap door to who knows where. The surprises are endless. 

Kids can manipulate objects directly: make yucky sandwiches, pour— 
the glasses actually fill up—from a pitcher of what our three-year-old 
tour guide solemnly identified as “purple juice.” She headed right for a 
flashlight to shine around a darkened bedroom, then brandished a 
magic wand to reveal a teddy bear's dream as “Hush Little Baby” played. 
Our favorite spot? The bathroom. Toilets flush 
(endlessly, a California child's dream), water 
turns on and off, crocodiles peer out from 
rugs, and bears make a giant mess with the 
toilet paper. Strong on plot it’s not, but who. 
cares? Just one word of warning: don’t buy A 
Silly Noisy House unless you're prepared to 
hear it over and 
over and over 


again. 




























“There's so much 
tosee and Near 
and it’s soeasy 


to do! Our two- 
id loves it 


About the author: | 


Peggy Weil has 

two children. (and so do his 
older brothers ).” 
—Judy Schatz, 


Elkins Park, PA 





= 
A SILLY NOISY HOUSE 


@MCSILLYH |] rnd) 





























“E® 





TO ORDER ON-LINE, SEND E-MAIL t0() ORDERS@3S1IXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 


TO ORDER BY rax (G) 1-914-591-6481 


@. Be 


Hh 








his handsome guide to London's National Gallery is 
a seriously dead-white-European-male proposition, 
but just a few minutes with these splendid paintings 
put us in too good a mood to complain. The collection— 
2,000 works of Western art from the thirteenth to the twen- 
tieth century—is spectacular, and the pictures look gor- 
geous. Of course, nothing beats the actual experience of 
peering up at giant canvases on marble-weary feet, but in 
the museum itself you can't click on Holbein’s The Am- 
bassadors for its hidden symbolism, or hear “Pollaiuolo” 
xiii land “Ruisdael” pronounced out loud, or 
Spe summon up the Titian self-portrait that 
inspired Rembrandt's Self-Portrait Aged 34. 
Short paragraphs concentrate on a few particu- 


ART GALLERY 


larly noteworthy 
aspects of each image. 












More infor- 








by The National Gallery 








mation is available via “See Also” buttons 
which offer intriguing links among paint- 
ings. We meandered from Caravaggio's 
Salomé to “Chiaroscuro” (although we 
were tempted by “Decapitation”) to 
“Venice 1725-1750" to “Ancient Myth and 
History.” If you'd rather be shown around, 
there are four guided tours of highlights 
of the collection. Not surprisingly, this is 
where most of the bells and whistles 
hang out. Ingenious animations let you 
see how Goya amended his portrait of 
Wellington to keep up with the general's 


military résumé or how Poussin recycled an entire bacchanalian 
grouping in his Adoration of the Golden Calf. Or you can zoom in 
on an early use of pointillism in Seurat’s Bathers at Asniéres. The 
program also includes a historical atlas, a guide to the artists’ lives, 
and an illustrated glossary. Art Gallery isn’t wildly imaginative, 


but it succeeds at what really [ARF GALLERY 


matters: getting us excited Poectswts sy Ateeosorr 
about art. 

















[@carTGAM || MECARTGAW ||"70™ 


























or more items and get 25% off your total order! 


0 


ff; buy 6 


° 


o off; buy 4, get 15 


Buy 2, get 10 





thé Moving mags. Mc 













Volume 1 
of the Voyager 








Shakespeare 


MACBETH 














ver wished that you enjoyed Shake- 
‘speare- as muclt as other people seem 
to? For us, reading Shakespeare was 
everpwith the 
trusty guidance of Cliff's Notes; and at perfor- 





always. Serious homewor 


mances we spent most of the time 
trying to figureout what was 
Actually happening. 

Here at last isa Macbeth 
for those of us who neverreally *got 
high sch6ol: Call it performed text. Or 
maybe annotated performance, Shake- 
speare has\never been’so‘enrichéd or 80 
accessible« Read it, lis- 
fen to.it, or listen tote 
film of the Royal Shake 
speare Company. pro- 
duction No 





more 
squinting at tiny-foot- 
notes and losing our 
place—hold down on 
the mouse for an instant 
definition. Wonder why 





Macbeth is such a big deal anyway? Turn to 
UCLA's David Rodes’s 


panied:by a picture gallery of historic 


introduetion—accom- 
ig? 














aoe 
L by William Shakespeare 
y offers’ variety of tools to do exactly that—you 
can see how effective a drama itis.” Cohen isn't 
: kidding about all the tools. Available alongside 
UCLA Professor Ac R. Braunmuller's definitive 
dition of the play, forthcoming from Cambridge 
University Press, are: the audio portion of the 





Royal Shakespeare Company's 
Macbeth; annotations and 
detailed notes; a.concordance 
(an alphabetical listing of every word in 
the play); a collation comparing this edition 
to others; a textual'a 





plaining wh 
certain éditorial choices were made; 1 





glos- 





saty; a bibliography; 4 section on casting; 
ahd essays on 
Shakespeare 
and the 
Elizabethan 
andJacobean 
eras, on'the 
history of the 





1-800-446-2001 


play’s perfor- 
manee, on its language, on witches and witch 


© 


craft, and on the playwright’s own source 


materials, Not to mention extensive search 





tools, and the ability to make margin notes 





Edited by A.R. Braunmuller 











and eyents—or.to.his and Braunmtuller’s 
commentary ort every imaginable aspect of the 


ures 








play. (We're party to a genuine scholarly con- 
versation, Which gets eSpe- 
cially lively when the two 


and to export or 
printthem, along 
with the corre- 


TO\ORDER BY PHONE 







Sponding lines 
fromthe play. 





| disagree.) Wonder what 
| Hollywood made of Mae- 
| beth? Clips fromyPolanski’s 
and Welles’ 





versions, and 
from Kurosawa's Throne of 
Blood, are available tight-on the page, Yearn for 
the footlights? Perform alongside the pros in the 
Macbeth Karaoke. 
As producer Michael Cohen points out, in 
‘Ssixteenth-century London, sophisticatés’ and. 
peasants alike went to the Globe, and 
Shakespeare Was a pro who warited to 
pack the house. 

“Four hundred years later we talk 
differently, but if-you can’ get \a handle 
onthe language—and this program 


MACBETH 


@ CMACBEM || mrmann G3) [49 




































This 
Shake- 
Speare the 
way it 
should be, but 










couldn't be until 
now—a pleasure, 





instead of a dut, 











e first in the series, this CD Companion estab- 
lished a whole new genre for CD-ROM technol- 
ogy. The response, especially to the Close 

Reading and especially from listeners who'd always 
assumed that a real grasp of classical music was 
beyond them, was tremendous and deeply emo- 
tional. “I've 

=| always loved the 
symphony,” one 
wrote in, “but 
now I under- 
stand it.” Music 
scholars were 
just as enthusias- 


desttees 


1271 The movement els 
olen contrasts Here, the 


trumpets and tina play loud 





tic, because the program works 


~ for people with very different lev- 
FIPY els of musical expertise. It offers 
continuous real-time commentary 
across the entire sixty-eight min- 
tretiven Utes of Beethoven's last, great 
Sjmpdony X9 Work, performed by the Vienna 





Philharmonic with Joan Sutherland 
and Marilyn Horne. There's the 
full text, in English or German, 
of “Ode to Joy,” and the com- 
poser’s rather scandalous life 
comes under scrutiny as well. 
‘The most disciplined of them all, 
Symphony No. 9 
is the classic CD 
Companion. 







SS 


























usic appreciation was one of those subjects 
MU: kept meaning to get around to in college. 

.Too many years later we happened into a 
lecture hall at UCLA where music professor Robert 
Winter had 500 adults transfixed by hi: 
blend of scholarship and showmanship. 
Focusing on a single composition, he 
showed slides to illustrate the historical 
and cultural context of the work; he 
played different works by the composer 
and those who influenced him; he explored the piece 
afew measures at a time, played by a quartet on 
stage; and then he had musicians play the piece 
through. But when we raced home and put the 
record on, we couldn't reconnect Winter's insights 
to the music itself, Which arpeggio? Where, exactly? 





That's when the CD Companion series was born. 
Winter instantly grasped the possibilities of new 
media, but Macintosh technology needed another 
five years to catch up to our dream. We wanted all 
the great stuff Winter was saying, but at a pace and 





in an order we could control. We didn’t want it to be 
for music jocks either. Winter happily describes his 
audience as those whose primary exposure to class 
cal music is on their car radios. (Know how catching 
a bit of that symphony makes you feel virtuous? And 
just a little smarter...fleetingly?) The tone is erudite 












eh ee a 


ee te rea 
flee fF sine t ees? atic ty, tet 





























his program really gives the feel of 
what it’s like to be in Robert Winter's 
classroom. A superb recording of 
Mozart's String Quartet in C 
Major, by the Angeles Quartet, 
is followed by seventy-six min- 
utes of 


Ce 











dialogue 
between 
Winter and the members of the quar- 
4 ae tet. Some- 
the game # times he sep- 
4 @ eC arates out a 
the, le CD, 
¥ passage, some- 
et thou; Vt wi dit all, ) 
} 4 F. times he makes 
nd goes bad to i again and again” of Hye rpusicians 
—Ira Shapiraglitenfield, CT blag one othier 











— than the way it’s written, some- 
“| times he changes the syncopa- 
| tion—whatever it takes to con- 
vey the inner workings of 
Mozart's music and to get his 
point across. Detailed views of 


the quartet's instruments 
are also put to use. This 
vivid exchange of musical 
ideas, driven by Winter's energy and expertise, 
guarantees a complete understanding of this classic 
and difficult 
piece of cham- 
ber music. 











inter calls The Rite of Spring the compo- 
\ X ) sition that “defined the beginning of the 
modern age.” He also points out that, 
while the symphony is better known now than at 


its debut seventy-five years ago, it’s probably no 


oR @® 





better understood. He’s 
absolutely determined to 
rectify this situation, and 





STRAVINSKY: THE RITE OF SPRING : 


There's a diagram of the orches- g >_ 
tra (one of the largest ever 
assembled), and you can go into 
each section, read about any 
instrument (Stravinsky included 
Sn 





che 











his fervor is contagious. To make sure you under- 
stand the Rite's rhythmic innovations, Winter actu- 
ally pounds on 











the piano and 
calls out the ie? fant 
beat ina there’ moc 
Shout It Out '¢ Hancock 
section. 

Se SS 2a 








i $ 





without being highbrow; it’s enlightening, intelligent, 
and highly personal. Winter isn’t lecturing, he’s tak- 
ing you along on a guided tour of his passion. 

Every CD Companion has a Pocket Guide, which 
describes the structural components of the composi- 
tion. The heart 
of the program 
is the Close 
Reading, in 
which the 
music plays and is described measure by measure; 
it's a running commentary across the whole compo- 
sition. Each CD Companion also contains a compre- 
hensive Glossary, with audio assists when neces- 
sary, a Composer's World section which sets the 
music in a historical and cultural context, and 





some weird ones), and play a sample. Be the only 
person on your block to know what the guiro 
sounds like (kind of raspy). And for the more expert 
listener, Winter provides a second level of technical 
annotations. It’s impossible to come away empty- 








handed from —_[ STRAVINSKY: THE RITE OF SPRING 
this gorgeous aac Pun'b By VOVAGER: WIN PUBD BY RicROSOFT 
CD-ROM. CSTRAVM || BICSTRAVW 

















Zea ae a ee ee aa 


Games which test your newly acquired expertise. Go 
head to head with Igor Stravinsky in trivia questions 
about the Rite of Spring, or match questions 
Jeopardy-style with passages from Beethoven's 
Ninth Symphony. 


About the author: A scholar 
and pianist, Robert Winter has 
taught at UCLA since 1974. 

He devotes an increasing 
amount of time to the creation 
of interactive music titles. 


For more great 
CD Companions, see 
page 33 


Note: the Macintosh versions, designed in black and 
white for 9” screens, will play on any Mac; the PC 
versions are in full-screen color. 


ee 











States, Antonin 
Dvorak set out to capture the vitality and diversity 
of America at the dawn of the twentieth century. 
The resulting symphony, From the New World, is 
his masterpiece. The Vienna Philharmonic’s superb 
recording is accompanied by the entire score, 
which rolls before you as the music plays, a first 

a 
The Direct 
Testimony sec- 
tion turns this 
CD Companion 
into a fascinat- 
ing work of 
social history as 








nspired by his first o 
visit to the United [Dv ORAK: symphony no. 9 “From THE NEW WORLD” 
: itali versity well. Audio clips and thousands of 
pages of text—reviews of Dvorak’s con- ANTONIN 





—= | certs, 
| Personal 
"_ reminiscences, gos- 
4 sip, and criticism— 
| >| create a lively por- 
trait of New York at 
_. the turn of the cen- 
tury and the tumultuous world the Bohemian com- 


poser encountered in 1892. There’s a great game, 














too: cam You 8% [OHA SYMPHONY O.9FOM TE NEW ORL” 
Dvorak to 
Carnegie Hall? [@covoran |] om ml Fg 





















TO ORDER BY pone (G)1-800-446-2002 










SIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 


= 


SEND E-MAIL TO(Z)ORDERS 


TO ORDER ON-LINE, 


ta esata ee ela ce lc eal ell Toe 


All T-shirts 
silkscreened on 
100% cotton! 


| 









NING FLOWER 





Achieve the serenity 
of the little traveler 

and dress for the trip. 
In tranquil blue, this 
T-shirt is available in 


large and extra-large 


WE sents [G2 15" am 














MACBETH 


Is that an interactive dagger 

















I see before me? This T-shirt LB el dl 

is printed on jet black so the ip} What creature walked all over 
blood really drips! Silk- eee this beautiful green T-shirt? 
screened with the Macbeth ‘ Celebrate the animal kingdom 
CD-ROM logo, it’s 2 \ , in adult lai -large 

in large and extre « or kids’ medium (8-10), 

MMACBET |[ (1d) f  MWORLDT ‘ids® 1° 












































For more 
stuff, see 
page 44. 





a 











[comre BOOK CONFIDENTIAL % TEXT 


i Yes it’s 100% cotton. 


Go graphic in basic 


black. Available for a BB 


comix lovers in large 


Haven't we been saying it’s 










the content all along! But 
and extra-lar it’s the message too! Text 
the next frontier AND the 
next T-shirt, available in 


large and extra-l 





BEETHOVEN — | 


He’s cool because he’s 
interactive! Available in 
large and extra-large. 


MBEETHT |[9(2)[|*15™| 














® 


fter viewing the inner work-_ cross-referenced. The many 3-D color animations 
How ings of a mouse (LEDs! are mesmerizing (we'd never considered the per- 


Photodetectors pulsing spective from inside a laser printer). There's a lively 
INDIES away! Lots of weird little gears!), we decade-by-decade timeline and a superb index/glos- 
es didn’t feel so bad about shelling out sary function we'd never seen 

pet i Wark eighty bucks for one, How 


before. The jazzy interface is a 
Computers Work is a workhorse of little confusing; but at least it's 
not dull and we got the hang of 


HOW COMPUTERS WORK it before long. 


A lot of thought went into making this program a 





{ 








off your total order! 






























a=] a program—a — hands-on approach to computer technology: a mini- 

5 good value for a applications section offers tutorials and demo ver- 

2 people interested sions of Word, Excel, FileMaker Pro, SuperPaint, 

@ in the history and 

o future of what 

8 the introduction QuarkXPress, and Audioshop (commercial, yes, but 

iS judiciously also highly instructive). And the Activities section is 

° declares “may turn out to be the most important great; we could program in Turtle, a customized ver- 

« invention of all time” (this is Time-Life, after all, not _ sion of LOGO, or try to add two random numbers 
Mondo 2000). It’s also for anyone who just wants written in binary. One thing's for sure: we'll never 
to know how joysticks operate, viruses spread, or take the humble [H@W COMPUTERS WORK 
scanners scan. The editorial content is excellent, barcode for — [rascismer ay tint warner tetermerive 
completely free of technobabble and ambitiously granted again, [@CHOWCON T] wrt wn Qs) ][°79" 



































nthe book that accompanies Xplora, lar intervals to offer help or instructions, a mini-Gabriel 
Peter Gabriel explains, “For anumber presiding over a tour of his own career and persona. But, 
of years I've wanted to be an experi- although he has embraced this new medium 




























ence designer rather than just a musi- 
cian.” Xplora definitely qualifies 


and all the high-tech kicks of computer ani- 
firmly planted on 
advocacy of world music is evi- 





mation, Gabriel's feet ar 
earth, His 
dent throughout (music from forty albums 





an 





experience. It’s a grab bag of 
wild music videos (“Kiss that Frog” is fabulous), 


ly music, 





behind-the-scen 





2s production footage, video tours of by non-Western artists can be sampled), as is 





various festivals and 


events, home movies XPLORA 


from Gabriel's child- 


his commitment to Amnesty International and 
the Witness Program, which Gabriel founded 

















to provide human-rights movements in the 
hood, a detailed study of the Us album, Third World with cameras and other commu- 


with Gabriel talking about his inspira- nication tools. 





tion for the songs and accompanying ‘This guy thinks hard, 
artwork, a tour of works in progress at 


his huge Real World Studios, and 


Xplora is inter- 





active in ways that 


more—but it succeeds brilliantly at other people have 





showing a creative and politically princi- explored, but not as 


well. We can now claim to have plucked a nyatiti 





pled mind at work. 





Xplora’s highly personal nature is clear (there’s a section for sampling “weird and wonderful 
instruments from all over the world”) and 
ion of “Digging in the 


ick board. We could do 


from the very first screen: we had to assemble 
Peter Gabriel's face to get into the program, and 
1 featu 


navigational icons. His talking head appears at regu- 


. mixed our own vei 
) Dirt 
without some of the adventure-game stuff 








his neon-colore 





subsequently functior ona four: 





(you need to locate various passes in 
order to get backstage, for example), but 
Gabriel and Brilliant Media should be 

ks. The intert 





ce is 





applauded for taking all sorts of ris 
intriguing, screens are stunning, and it's packed with 
one hundred minutes of video, thirty of audio, and 

more than one hundred stills. Most important, Xplora 


lives up to its xX PLORA 


name—it demands [ececisees ay tare 
@cxpLorm jor tech nt (G9) *60"" 
































to be explored. 











7e knew we'd come full circle when we saw R. Crumb on the 
cover of The New Yorker. But we couldn't help a twinge of nos- 
talgia for the bad old days when comics were declared a men- 


ace to public morals and the Comics Code ruled distributors. (The Code’s 





and Rule #8 is typical: “All lurid, unsavory, or gruesome illustra- 

tions shall be eliminated.”) Comic Book Confidential is so much fun. 
The heart of the program is Ron Mann's funny, hip documentary. 

Starting with the very first comics (Funnies on Parade, in 1933), 





Mann traces the history of American commercial, alternative, and 
ival of the 
1980s. There’s fabulous footage from the reclusive R. Crumb on the 


COMIC BOOK CONFIDENTIAL | Ron Mann 


genesis of Mr. Natural (while he was tripping, natch), from William 


underground comics from their invention right up to the 






















































Gaines defending “the harmless thrill of a horror story” to a Senate sub- 
committee on juvenile delinquency in 1954, from Dan O'Neill, whose 
and wreck the air 


Air Pirates were on orders to “crawl out the 





waves,” and Bill Griffith, the creator of Zippy 





Zippy doesn't accept 
Fred Flintstone is 





shared reality: Zippy says Fred Astaire is his copilot 
God.... Somebody has to stand outside the whole thing and tell you 
what's going on”), and many others. The possibilities of comic books 





as performance art hadn't struck us till we saw the mixture of graphics 
and performance that Mann calls “filmographs”; a deadpan Lynda 
Barry holding forth on the mysteries of menstruation and home ec is 


side-splitting, and don’t miss Stan Lee bringing Spiderman’s money 





worries to life. 


Mann has gone to great lengths to cover the whole medium of 





comics, combining interviews, historical footage, animations, and 
montages of comic art. The CD-ROM backs it up with over 120 pages of 
comics by the artists profiled, an introduction by Scott McCloud, author 





of Understanding Comics, biographies and publishing 
histories of each of the artists, and even suggestions for 
further reading. It's an all-star cast, with work by Sue 
Coe, Will Eisner, Jack Kirby, Al Feldstein, Shary 
Flenniken, Art Spiegelma 








Gilbert Shelton, and 
many more. Blown up and backlit, their inspired 
artwork looks terrific. In New Media's words, 
Comic Book Confidential is “not a technical mar- 





vel; it just runs fas 
tons of information—plus, it’s a blast.” 





About the author: Ron Mann, 
who has made the films Poetry 
in Motion and Twist, is an 
inspired observer of popu- 
lar culture. He lives in 






Toronto. 





@ccomicm 




















an’t live with Director? Can't live without it? al, open the Expanded Book on your com- 
( Whether you're an experienced producer or a puter for instant reference while you're 

novice, this straightforward handbook will turn _using Director. You can even copy scripts 
you into a power user. Marc Canter, founder of Macro- _and examples directly to your project. 
Mind, declares, “You should only be limited by your What else? Using Macromedia Director 
imagination when you're using Director.” Using Macro- _ is insanely comprehensive, explaining 
media Director actually makes this possible. It covers __ system configurations, animation tech- 


Director 3.1.3, the leading authoring tool recommended niques, graphics and audio features, how 

















by Macromedia, along with Director Player for Windows, __ to use QuickTime, how to produce outstanding special 

for people doing cross-platform development effects, how to use Lingo to create scripts and build 
‘The CD-ROM is packed with multimedia examples: sophisticated interactive presentations, even offering 

snazzy color animations, photographs, and eighty film hints on how to manage multimedia projects produc- 















| dy Tony Boué & Cheryl Rhodes 








Technology, Entertainment, baseball, and David Macauley 


clips in both Director and QuickTime format, all in- tively. “Animation can explain whatever the mind of 
stantly available onthe man can conceive,” says Walt Disney in the epigraph. 
page. In clear, nontech- With this program in hand, the sky's the limit 
nical language, Bové and 
Rhodes explain the About the authors: Tony Bové and Cheryl Rhodes 
fundamentals of multi are pioneers in the field of interactive desktop publish- 
media presentation, then _ ing. They edit amonthly computer industry report 
back them up withsam- and the independent Macromedia User Journal, have ® 
ple presentations and produced an interactive CD-ROM entitled The Rise 3S 
techniques developed by pros who use Director every and Fall of the Haight-Ashbury, and have written nu = 
day. It’s a great way to learn, because you see the pos: merous books and T re 
sibilities and then learn how to create them yourself articles about = 
Instead of trying to keep your place in some huge manu- computers. % 
_ : _ (3 
xe 
‘ot a who but a what, TED is an extra- the globe in search of vanishing S 
ordinary conference founded to species. In 1992 John Seulley be 
address the growing convergence of » unveiled voice-recognition tech- of 
three fields: nology, Stephen Jay Gould talked Fe 
6 
° 
e 


and Design. Its host, Richard showed the way things work. 
~ Saul Wurman, realized thatas And in 1993, Herbie Hancock in 

artists went digital and technol — Kobe, Japan, and pianist Makoto Ozone in Tokyo, linked 
ogy demanded humanizing, the _ digitally and by video conference, improvised 

skills of generalists were ‘a jaza duet in real-time. 5 
increasingly important. How Who else hangs out at TED? Nick Negro- 
“better to acknowledge and gen- _ ponte, founder and director of MIT’s Media 

















_erate this exciting fusion than to bring Lab; architect Frank Gehry; Bill Atkinson 









together the top minds in each field, (he invented HyperCard); Stewart Brand, 
techies and humanists alike, to present | creator of the Whole Earth Catalog; 
their work and thought? Brenda Laurel, the inter- 
In two hours of QuickTime, this CD- face design expert; Alan 
ROM presents the highlights of the first Kay, father of the per- 
four TED conferences. In sonal computer; Marvin 
1984 Mickey Schulhof of Minsky, pioneer of artifi. 
Sony gave out the first CDs most of us had cial intelligence; and too many more to 4 
€ ever seen, Benoit Mandelbrot explained frac- _ name. Here's a chance to see them all 
a tals, and the Macintosh computer was shown _inaction—and at a great price. 





for the second time ever, At TED2, we were introduced [THE BEST OF TED 
to Virtual Reality by Jaron Lanier, and Douglas Adams aftts 


gave a poignant and hilarious account of his trip around [@c rev IM [| mmm mmr] P19" | 











TO ORDER BY PHONE(S) 1-800-446-2001 









@:. Be. 


e groaned at the thought of one more stego- 
saurus. But though there are lots of dino- 

\ V 1r-related programs on the market, this is 
far and away the best of the bunch. In fact we loved it, 
and so did our seven- and nine-year-old fellow critics. 
They went right for “Dinosaur Movies,” clicked on “The 
Hunt,” and got totally spooked by an incredibly realistic 
f QuickTime movie of a tyrannosaurus stalking a tricera- 

" tops through the jungle primeval. 

In the elegant Eyewitness Books, publisher Dorling 
Kindersley packs a tremendous amount of information on 
each page. Amazingly, the designers have pulled off the same 
feat on the computer screen: there are lots of buttons on 











































Pri, 

ae L & n ae eae 
every card, but Dinosaurs is so well designed that the differ- 
ent categories of information and navigational options remain 
distinct. And there are loads of them: animations; an Atlas describing 
nineteenth-century fossil hunts along with prehistoric habitats; a guide to 
dinosaur families; an index; a timeline showing how species came and went 
over some 150 million years; and guided tours of topics like “Dinosaur 
Olympics,” “Smart or Dumb,” and “Dinosaur Fashion Parade” 
(with a Robin Leach-esque commentary on prehistoric 
scalewear). With every card there’s an audio bite 
which includes the pronunciation of every 
dinosaur name. In some places the audio con- 
tinues while different screen elements open 
up. Best of all, the branching is imagina- 
tive and deep; kids have no trouble 
getting and staying involved, but 
they won't get lost in the layers. 
Dinosaurs is fast, it’s full color, 
it’s a good deal. The only 
question it doesn't answer 
is how come kids never 
suffer from lizard glut? 














ling Kindersley Limited, 1990, 














AURS 


@cpinosm || Micprnosw |/*79 





















From The 























ion on page 25. 


11 it took was that memorable open- 
A« chord to blast us back to the six- 

ties. A Hard Day's Night is the first 
fullJength feature film to make it to CD-ROM 
format, and it's a perfect kick-off: fresh, 
funny, and full of great music. But if you just 
want to watch the movie, we suggest you go 
rent a video. If, on the other hand, you want 
to cheek out this cult classic scene by scene, 
charaeter by character, song by song, this is 
the way to go. We fell in love with John, 
Paul, George, and Ringo all over again, and 
nobody complained when we played “Can't 
Buy Me Love” twelve times in a row. We 
couldn't do that in the movie theater. Have 
trouble with those thick Liverpool accents? 
) Read the script alongside the 
movie. Wonder why all four 
Beatles aren’t shown in a cer 
tain scene, or what other 
movies were made by director 
Richard Lester? The answers 
_| are all here, 


Y'’S NIGHT || &y The Beatles (19) 


‘There's plenty for the most 4 
ardent fans (ten minutes with ‘ 
the CD-ROM and we were 
born-again Beatlemaniacs): 
great songs like “All My 
Loving” and “I Should Haye 
Known Better’; the original 
script, including deleted scenes and impro- 
vised dialogue; the theatrical trailer; profiles 
of the band, cast, and crew; terrific essays on 
the Beatles, the music, and the movie; an 
interview with Richard Lester, and clips from 
his early work; and a photo gallery of the 
Fab Four, No wonder MacUser gave A Hard 
Day's Night the number one spot on their 
list of the fifty best CD-ROMs ever. 





has to say about evo! 





















= 
tS) 
() 
> 
i) 
= 
7 
ie 
a 
2 
a 
3 
2S 
= 
o 
o 
& 
¢ 
= 
o 
B 
3 
= 
3 
e 
fr 
= 
re) 
> 























is truly gréater than the sum of its parts...this 
CD-ROM has Been a revelation to me.” 
—Ray Taylor, Montreal, Canada / 


“The first multimedia product I have seen that - 





| Did you know that 

“Way g6ol! I espetially like the seript links f a FT ee 

to the picture. Do more films on CD-ROM!” SUL eal Lney, 
Craig Robinsom, Novato, CA { was in a band 


ar before Wings? 


A HARD DAY’S NIGHT 


@ cHarpon || MEcHARDDw [[*39" 



































nac@ 


1993/1994 Top £ CountDown had been available 
Software Award, when we were in school, we might 
Technology & never have figured out that math 
Lgarnipg isn't supposed to be fun. Three games— 


Nimbles, Leftovers, and Guestimation— 
let kids manipulate mounds of marbles, 
piles of pennies, bites from an apple, 
and many more real-life objects; no bor- 
ing numbers on a flat page. Even very 
young children can plunge in on their 
own and get instant results. It’s multilin- 
gual: children can count in French, 
German, Italian, and Spanish. A little 
girl introduces the program and nar- 








Nes 


Last One Wins 











CountDown is part of the Visual 


\| re 

|| & Margo. Nanny & Robert MohL | Almanac Series, the remarkable tith 
produced by Apple's Multimedia Lab 

which have set new standards for interactive 











rates each Sue so there's a familiar face 

to turn to. And because both the objects and 

the degree of difficulty are easy to change, 
kids will return to CountDown over 
and over again. (Just resist the 


teaching tools. 
Inquire about Windows availability, 


Robert Moh! was the first 
ia Lab at MIT. He and 
nny are well-known multimedia 


About the authors 

Ph.D. from the Med 
Margo N 
designers. 





temptation to point out that they're 
mastering computation, estimation, 
and logic.) 








“The perfect play-along counting garhe for developing essential math skills.” 
—Rab Semper, Associate Director. San Francisco Exploratorium 





COUNTDOWN 


CCOUNTM [| forth arn n( 





ORDERS @3SIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 























= = = (21) 
f ° 
e had a great time zipping around-he—~Tight placerIt’s not a sophisticated Fr 
solar system in our snazzy yellow-texi-—=game-but aspiring asteonomers will = 
cab (once we'd gotten-past the taxi love the snappy sfaphics altd.the = 
dispatcher’s serious Bropx“accent). Planetary———~ancete-pilot their own Space Vehicle, ss 
Tari starts out witb QuickTime Thovie that even one with wlivels. Still photas ait, z 
explains the idgaof a scaleMmodel, and estab- QuickTime movies of rétent space Mris- < a 
lishes the appealing ard familiar metaphor of sions and NASA fly-bys add foahe sense SS ul 
driving aléng an a¢tual highway widetfe sun (an of authenti@ exploration s 
eight-foot-tall Wal —————— x 
loony as theStarting | by Margo Nanny & Robert Mohk| « 
point, pagf a pump- = = = 3 
Mn-sizod Jupite doen weg -Wonderfuivie nevergeen ma pe ‘ 
ponize Fr 













nifty igftow successfully it 
realjf did orient us within 
Epetives 
révved and breakS 
Aquealed satisfingly as we 


the’ solar system 





set out into space, road 





igns for closer planets whizzing averhead. 
\ Whette to? A pig Wants to g 
here she'll weigh the most, a Rastafarian to 
Where hé can jump the highest, a gAjfer to 
where hig drive will réally fly, and so‘on. (These 


Figure it out 





wacky passengers are visible only in thégear- 

view mirrok, another nic@touch.) Buttons onthe 
\\ dashboard Dring up relevarit information about 
\the stars and planets, and pasSengers pay up 

handsdmely one you've gotten them to the 


~ 
~ 



















a ee ried 
Mohl.—Jim Thtinas, 


- Be entary SchoogNill Valley, CA 


PLANETARY TAXI 





BD CPLANEM | 











o 


TO ORDER BY FAX (72) 1-914-591-6481 


Qk: 














66 ‘uck—I hate fi 


our nine-year-old daughter 









Editions Gallimard, in 





imagine. The designer 
Paris—h 


st books,” said 








\s pulled out stops we didn’t know 


when we tossed Taming Fire could exist between two covers: extravagant fold. 












outs, transparent overla lavish textures, reusable 





her way. “Cool book,” she volunteered when 
we had to pry it out of her hands twenty minutes later, vinyl stickers, and eye-popping layouts on every single 


Why books in a catalog of CD-ROMs? Because this page. Kids can’t keep their hands off them 


Four 4 
nd sciences really (that’s the point), and neither could we. 
great 


books! 


extraordinary series about the arts 




















does push book design about as far as we can 


‘an you define “fire”? Here's the 





illustrated story of how man has 


Rotate the sky clock to tell time. Put jenatic. | hamessed combustion for:every 


on 3-D glasses to view a four-page pares ns! 
panorama of the night sky, Travel from SESH baths to making piz 


purpose from heating Roman 








zas and light 
Not to mention volcanoes, 





ancient legends to modern space missions ing cit 
via Copernicus, the telescope, constella lightning, horseshoes, fireworks, and 








tions, meteors, and eclipses. Everything in spacecraft—and how TAMING if f] 
the universe is moving, EXPLORING SPICE on earth did they fit frmmies 
and these pages are no a lighthouse in here? MGALTFB|| | 





exception. 
Each book comes with moveable stickers! 








ift the lid of a grand piano, study an orches- 
al score, look inside a nineteenth-century 
brass-instrument factory. From prehistoric 

lutes carved of bone to electronic synthe- 
sizers and snake-charming to storytelling, 
sical instruments have 










al and put to every purpose 
under the sun. fusical 


























The colors, the techniques, the sur- a 
faces—a history of artists’ tools. 

(Braque used a comb, Rauschen- Pry 
berg a pair of socks!) Open the Ey ePainc and 


doors of a Bosch triptych, or check =@ tae 
out the Sistine Chapel pre- and — 





post-rehab. Humans have painted on silk, papyrus 









(feel a sample), shells, n a cotta, icons, 


PAINT AND PAINTING aoe 


fessrscrousrie| dolls, subway cars, and human 
NGALPPB 


tert 





angs, fans, totem poles, 























skin, and it’s all represented 





@. 





W INSIDE LOOK? 





new theory about how the human 
mind works! We bought The Society 
of Mind because it was so exciting. 


We got it home, we started in...and it’s just 
so...well,dense. “If only Minsky were here 
to explain it,” we muttered. 

We got our wish. The legendary 
and thinker pops up on the screen thinking 


MARVIN MINSKY 
EXPLAINS WHY 
HEMADEA CD-ROM tore 











ientist 











The book has a problem—the brain 
has no plot. It’s just a whole bunch THE SOCIETY OF MIND 
of different mechanisms, probably 
three or four hundred, that interfere out loud, his bald head emerging from unlikely places, explaining, 
with each other. You have to under- demystifying, enlivening, engaging us in dialogue, and occasion- 


















stand many of these things before ally shrugging and walking off the page. Clever animations 
you can understand any of them. bring Minsky’s ideas to life—titerally. This CD-ROM was the ‘ 
‘That's the reason the book has these first to liberate the video ima; m its little square frame, 








is a perfect match for Minsky’s 
challenge to conventional notions 


== | of what makes Fi 
ustick Why | by Maruin Mi AA 


one-page chapters. It's designed to and its technical virtuosity 

skip around. This made it a natural r 

for hypertext, but hypertext didn’t 

exist yet. (It still doesn’t in some | 
's still pretty inadequate.) | 

‘This was the first version that |p 

looked usable, and I wanted to use it | 














read 








Society of Mind from beginning to end? 
Instead, trace thematic links via the ingenious 


“Idea Index. 








to make the book more accessible. 





tour of Marvin's living room, the perfect 








SEES metaphor for his eclectic mind—and get the stories behind rocket models, ro- 
ARE REM BAS botic arms, Stevie Wonder's keyboard, 
DON NORMAN | ssersise2 cn 
dox career. Lots of other stuff— 
ON FLECTRONIE BOOKS | wwmsecrorr | FT RST 


























Artificial Intelligence 
On the face of it, “electronic book” Lab, an interactive 
is an oxymoron. Paper books do a 
perfectly fine job, thank you. In this 
Voyager book we have tried to go a 
step farther, to give a feeling of the 
author and how | approach prob- 
lems, something that is best done 
through the video segments. In the 
video what's important is not what 
Tsay. What's important is that the 
reader experiences me and the way 
I think about things. I've always 


timeline of Minsky’s life, a selection of his best articles, pop- 
up glossary terms, and a bibliography—make this an excep- 
tional But Minsky himself m 








it jump. 





About the author: Dr. Minsky, whose résumé could fill its own 
catalog, is a pioneer in the field of artificial intelligence and a 
cofounder of the MIT Media Lab. He teaches at MIT. 


THE SOCIETY OF MIND 























felt strongly that when you know 
an author, you understand the very lhe word that comes to mind to describe Don Norman is 
same work far better than if you | “guru.” He is the “guru of workable technology” (Newsweek), 
do not know the author. “the gadget guru” (L.A. Times), the guru of interface design. 
‘Am I happy with this book? No. No wonder the producer got nervous. If the program didn't practice 
I'm delighted with it and I'm what Norman preaches—that design should respond and adapt 
proud of it, but I'm not happy -it simply wouldn't fly. 
with it. [Ideally] the book... It flies. Pushing the book metaphor to new limits, the page 











to human needs instead of the reve 








should pose problems for the 
DEFENDING HUMAN ATTRIBUTES 











reader with me on hand to 
has been expanded into a three-dimensional space that Norman actually 


guide towards the solution. It 
should take more advantage 
interacts with and explores. When he has a point to illustrate—criticizing the 


of the computer's ability to synthe- 
size experiences on the spot....Of 
course I knew that going in, but 
the book would still be five years 
from completion. 


tiny “close” box in the upper-left-hand comer of a text window, for example, or 

demonstrating the intuitive way we assemble a Lego toy—he steps into the 

screen to make it. We've never seen video used like th 
‘The central part of the CD-ROM is the Bookshelf, which contains the com- 























fter hearing Stephen Jay Gould speak, we went home to Why would someone so 
read Bully for Brontosaurus. We were struck by how much proud of using a manual 
more involved in the book we got now that we could sum- typewriter consent to such 
mon the person behind the work. Why not pair Gould’s writing a project in the first place? 
with a video of him explicating his ideas? It’s an interesting tech- 
In a one-hour lecture given nology, so I thought I'd 
expressly for the CD, Gould poses learn something about it. 
three riddles: Who was the natu- Also I loved the music pro- 
ralist on board the H.M.S. Beagle? Why didn't grams—I'm an amateur 
Darwin use the word “evolution”? And why did he musician—and the thought 
delay the publication of his views for over twenty that you could decompose 
years? Clues lie not just in Gould's lecture but also ascore, pull apart some- 
in the abundance of source materials that branch mre 55 














for Brontosauru: 
Origin of Spec 


“ off it: a slide show; the entire text of Gould's Bully arrnirly IUAnn 


letters and documents from the Victorian era; maps and over 100 
































































graphs and illustrations. Half the fun is getting derailed, especially with the inspired thing like “The Rite,” was 
guidance of the really quite remarkable. 
“Themes” ON EVOLUTION | by Stephen Jay Gould What was different 
menu, which about working in this 
$ eross the CD. Almost everything is grist for Gould’s mill: pan- medium? 
age stamps, bamboo, baseball, and anglerfish, not to mention It’s really a transition 
George Canning’s left buttock. Constantly searching for the overlooked element that from one world to another. i. 
will unlock the riddles, Gould brilliantly challenges such popular fallacies as the Atone point the producer 8 
assumption that “early” equals “inefficient,” or that nature is, in his words, any- asked, “Shallwe = 
thing but “endlessly fascinating, amoral, and mightily persistent.” have The Origin 
of Species?” I ay 
About the author: said, “Sure, I'll S 
B Evolutiona i pick out a few a 
P E bestsell quotes,” and she 
and Harv said, “Oh, we'll just put the > 
Stephen Jay Gould has whole book in.” At the risk a 
ceived numerous of sounding arrogant, a lot = 
awards, including a of people who write well > 
can't talk well, or vice s 
versa. I happen to be able ry 
to do both well. Intellectual § 
discourse has two totally 2 
different languages, the 
spoken and the written, and 
to be able to combine them 
in one format is fabulous. 























plete text of Norman's three definitive books about the days tested our design 1Q (what exactly do terms like 

relationship between humans and machines—The Design _ “forcing function,” “iterative design,” and “learned helpless- 
lay Things, Turn Signals Are the Facial ness” mean, anyway?), as well as a glossary, bibliography, 
‘ons of Automobiles, and Things that Make Us and index 

Smart—enhanced by audio and video clips, There are also Urging us to quit being passive and to think about how 


three freestanding video talks, where Norman discusses we actually use things, Defending Human Attribute 
the flaws and strengths of the program (this guy isnever _ passionate, entertaining, and brilliantly reasoned call 





a 








for the humaniza- 


IN THE AGE OF THE MACHINE || éy Donald Norman | tion of modem 


design. 


















satisfied); selections from a . 





collection of essays called 
User-Centered System 
Design; the Workbook, 
where one of Norman's 
exams from his teaching 





About the author: Donald A. Norman is a Fellow at ™ 
Apple Computer Inc. and Professor of Cognitive 


nice, Emeritus at [EFENDING HUMAN ATTRIBUTES 


the University of Fortisets 3y vor 
California, San Diego. [@CNORMAM rw a 0G) 






































@. 


‘ied magazine credits Mort Subotnick 
with inventing the term “chamber art,” 
to describe “the intimate, one-on-one 


relationship that an artist can have with a viewer/ 
listener through computer-based art.” Always in 
the vanguard, Mort Subotnick was one of the 
Ques first artists attracted to new 
media, and the first to compose 





apiece expressly for CD-RO 
All My Hummingbirds Have 
Alibis. 

Avant-garde art often strikes 
us as deliberately elitist. “No 


clothes on that emperor,” we 





The Sound of Music it isn’t. Max 
Emnst's surrealist images make Alice 
in Wonderland look folksy, and Subot- 
nick's atonal, percussive, highly cer- 
ebral music m 








or may not be 








cup of tea. It is highly romantic, com- 
pletely original, and deeply personal, 
an be explored in any number of 
Play the music with or without 





the accompanying images, score, or 


composer's comments. Many short 





essays, interactive in various ways, 
explain the structure of the music, the 
instruments, the relation between text 








ALL MY HUMMINGBIRDS HAVE ALIBIS 











by Morton Pubatnick 





mutter on the way home, feeling dis- ~~ 
gruntled and slightly inferior. We were 
startled and seduced by Subotnick’s 
approach to his material, which is 
exactly the opposite of elitist. No fancy 
language, no esthetic debate (he doesn't 
understand Max Ernst either), just a 





straightforward guided tour of how and why he composed 
this landmark piece. The medium appealed, says 
Subotnick, because “CD-ROM is extremely intimate, 








almost a one-on-one 
experience. It’s the 
possibility of...sharing 
my art with you almost 
directly, that has really 
excited me.” This pro- 
gram actually delivers 
that experience, and it 
got us ex 





rited too. 





and music, and the underlying technology. (Unclear what 
MIDI is? Listen to the audio engineer define it, then make 
your own simulated MIDI recording.) Subotnick lays it all 





out. He is that rare 





creature: an unpreten- 
tious visionary. 


About the artist: 
Morton Subotnick is a 
pioneer in the field of 
electronic music and 





interactive computer 
music systems. His work has been commissioned and 
recorded by major symphonic orchestras, chamber ensem- 


bles, opera companies, and music festivals around the 





world. He lives in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where 





Hummingbirds pre- 
miered to rave 
reviews in 1991 





(@caAtimym 





























“e’re always excited when an artist picks the 
\ \ ) computer as his medium of choice, and Jim 
Petrillo was one of the first to do so. Cinema 
Volta is a memoir, a quirky performance piece, an ear- 


popping and eye-grabbing reverie about electricity and 
its transforming power. In twelve stories that pulsate 








CINEMA VOLTA || 6y Jim Petritlc. 














and migrate across the screen, narrator Petrillo considers 
the strange lives of great inventors of the nineteenth 
century: Alessandro Volta, Thomas Edison, Alexande! 
Graham Bell, Samuel Morse, and Nicola Tesla. 

But don't expect a dry treatise on the history of sci- 
ence. Petrillo’s idiosyncratic perspective takes in the 
history of Sicily; Shelley and 
Byron's shenanigans during 
the summer of 1816 (Byron’s 

daughter, Ada, wrote the first 
computer program); Joyce's X- 
rated love letters to Nora (the 







program takes its name from a 
movie theater opened by Joyce in 
Trieste in 1909); the cave paint- 
ings of Lascaux; Frankenstein; 
naked people; vampires; big 
noise; and the artist's own child- 
hood memories. Often ironic (electricity was first used, 
he notes, to make dead frogs twitch), Petrillo’s commen- 
tary weaves together an arresting collage of images and 
text. The subtitle promises “Weird Science and 
Childhood Memories.” Weird it is, and not for everyone. 
But like any cult favorite, it has its fans. 


es \ 










About the artist: James 
Petrillo’s career includes exhibitions of media art, 
bookmaking, video, and storytelling theater works. 
He is the Director of the Electronic Media Art program 
CINEMA VOLTA] ® alfomiaSate 
University, 


Hayward. 









































fter about thirty seconds we under 

stood why The Seventh Guest is 

the bestselling CD-ROM in the 
country. The 3-D motion graphics are 
fabulous, and we were instantly caught up 
in the creepy world of demented toy maker 
Henry Stauf and his horror-filled house 
party. He’s prom 
ised to make his 
guests’ deepest 
wishes come true, with one little catch: 
only one of the six will walk out in the 
morning. So what happened, and who was 


the surprise visitor? 





Zach time you solve 
one of the puzzles Stauf 
has strewn about his 
Victorian mansion, 
floating apparitions of 


the guests material 





ize with ghostly clues. 
Although the 
minded us of a particularly 





acting re- 


embarrassing high school 





play, the program uses live 
actors in a way that we 
haven't seen in anything else rated PG 
Seventh Guest is actually character driven, 


a rarity in the genre. It’s also incredibly 


| by Rob Landeros, Graeme Devine & Matthew. Costello. 





challenging, Our friend the rocket scientist 
(no kidding) took two straight weeks to 
solve the mystery, and she keeps going 
back to it because the puzzles are so much 
fun, (Her favorite? The dollhouse in the 
attic. The one that stumped her? The puz 
zle in the pantry with the cans. Non-rocket 
scientists and the puzzle-impaired can turn 
to a book of clues in the library—not that 
getting there is a piece of cake.) 

The exceptional production 
values make Seventh Guest 
something of a hybrid between 
CD-ROM and a video game, 
which is definitely part of its 
appeal. It runs really fast 
there's great audio; cool icons 
beckon or chatter (a skeletal 
hand shows the way, a throb: 
bing brain—it really throbs—indicates 
the presence of a puzzle), What we liked 
best, though, was the way the story com 
pletely sucked us in. A lot of computer 
games are for geeks, 


Not The Seventh Guest 





DCSEVENNA| MB CSEVEND |] 


THE SEVENTH GUEST 


3SIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 


D> 
e-mait TO(3S 


SEND 





ON 


TO ORDER 


S)orvers 


Oo. m. 


We didn’t come away 

ready to have tea 

did get enough of, 

and language to 

faux-pas free. W 
And it isn't b 

is a wonderful # 













encyclopedic. Yt 


EXOTIC JAPAN 


study only makes sen 





Instead of being dragged 
s of speech, 
the ancient Tokaido Road. 
Illustrated by gorgeous color 
woodblocks by the nine- 
teenth-century artist 
Hokkaido, each of the fifty- 
three stations between Tokyo 





jugations o 















and Kyoto 
which 


presents a set of 
be tackled 
in linear fashion or browsed 
at random. They cover a 
amount of prac- 


lesson: 





tremendou: 
information, from an 





overview of modern Japanese society to a 
gating around Japan. There are 





section on ni 
also tips on “Japanizing” English words and 





on table manners (slurping noodles i 
of the meal had better go 


encour- 





aged, but the 
down silently). When phrases are presented 


in context, they're not only easier to remem- 
ber, you know you'll actually use them. 
ike “The goat is in the woman 


man 





No useless phras\ 
garden of my aunt.” 
Most ingenious, though, is the use of audio 





and animation. Useful kanji characters 
both explained and animated, so the: 
the mind’s eye. Male or female native speake 
(your choice) guide you step by step through Dain 
proper pronunciation as you record and replay cncan 
your own voice—and they never embarrass a 

you or run out of patience. And a traditional | 

Japanese “snakes and ladders” game tests 


what you've learned. The next step? Grab your L 2 left 





are : 
stick in se | 








passport and a fistful of yen. 


About the author: Born and raised 
Noriko (Nikki) Yokokura received her college 


and graduate education in North America. } 


Japan, 





| right 


She teaches Japanese at McMaster University 
in Canada, using an innovative multimedi: 
curriculum. _ 


EXOTIC JAPAN 
(@Micexoria ich nm 0 OP AO™ , 


up 


























down 








ny “ephemeral”? Sponsored by corporate 
America, these films were designed as 
advertisements for a lifestyle and were 
never intended to be preserved. Luckily, media. 
archaeologist Rick Prelinger saw them for what they 


Cy 


Pang 





o | 
Ephemera 4 the domestic realm, behavior 
FLLMS © checks for unruly tee da soci- 

} ety moving from blind faith in the 
<2 future to an inkling that all was not 
PAB quite right in postwar suburbia. 














= 1960) ty ick Ping 





are: rare artifacts that reveal the cultural values and 
social mores of the day (or at least the gospel accord- 
ing to Oldsmobile, Proctor & Gamble, and Esso). 
They had us both laughing and cringing, 

Mostly paid for by big corporations, the films in 
the CD's first section document the golden age of 
American industry. These forerunners to infomercials 
promote products—and, along with them, a world 
view in which Roll-Oh the Robot (your chromium- 
plated butler), an army of tools marching to Tehai- 
kovsky, GM's “Futurama” exhibit at the 1939 World's 
Fair, and the miracle of television promise progress 
without end. And once technology has set us free, the 
second half of the program, a paean to unbridled con- 
sumerism, has plenty of tips on how to handle that 
newfound leisure, Check out “What to Do on a Date” 
(weenie roast or taffy pull?), “'wo-Ford Freedom” 

(a second car will set her free), “American Look” 
(choose among many beautiful products), and 
“The Relaxed Wife” (tranquilizers). 

Prelinger’s perceptive commentaries point 
out the dark side of the American dream as 
well: the shameless relegation of women to 


“The balance of text and film makes 
good use of the technology, and I 
really loved the movies, espécially 
the ones used to scare postwar teens 
into behaving themselves. More, 
more, more.”— Wayne Hammond, 
San Frpmetsco, CA 


ae” 


About the author: Rick Prelinger is a film scholar and 
anthropologist. He is the author of Call It Home, a 
chronicle of the American suburb in the '50s and ’60s. 















ora Owr 


Oe. Be 









omeday somebody will do the elec- couldn't resist going for the flashy multime- 
tronic encyclopedia right. That day dia stuff (which, it’s fairly apparent, reflect 
isn't here yet, but Grolier publishes what was on hand at press time rather than 
the best one around. Microsoft's Encarta any systematic 
has more bells and whistles and a more attempt to cover 
appealing graphic inter- the entire con- 
face, but it’s based onthe —_ tents—but how 
Funk & Wagnall’s ency- many CDs would 
clopedia, which, frankly, that fill up?).'There | Rawshyimit iain. srt ae og 
a "4 ae ‘rm en metals earnd 
isn’t as good. Grolier's are nifty QuickTime | 
reputation for factual clips of everything 





aceur is unbeaten, from mushrooms 





and that’s what we think should come first growing to the 
in a reference work. Hindenburg 

All twenty-one volumes of the Academic — exploding (running Protect 
American Encyclopedia are packed onto that one over and 





THE NEW GROLIER MULTIMEDIA ENCYCLOPEDIA 


ard-winning CD-ROM. That over proved deeply satisfying), from Martin 
nto 33,000 article Luther King's “I Have a Dream” speech to 
ively researched (source the Apollo 11 launch, Grolier’s superb 
notes accompany each entry). We hap- photo archive is animated in a section of 
pened to have a Buckminster Fuller expert 
1 with the 














Grolier's a 
translates 








ten and impres 








inventor's write-up. Also described to his 
faction (and he's hard to please) was 
on molecule discovered 
5 and named after Bucky. 
Feeling pretty hip, we 
searched on “Internet,” and 

were surprised to come up 
empty-handed, 

‘The editors have obvi- 

ously worked hard on the 
Knowledge Tree, which 
ambitiou 


















To ORDER BY prone (@) 1-800-446-2001 









audio-vi 
Explorer, which 


led the Knowledge 
around six main r zles with one arresting 
knowledge. It’s alhandy way to image after another. There are some nice 
browse relevant articles through a animations too, Magellan's voyage being 
hierarchical list of topics and particularly well done. 

subtopics, and we could see We envy our kids the excitement of 

it really helping a student turning to this lively, authoritative refer- 












not quite sure how to ence work instead of to the innumerable 
launch into a research dusty maroon volumes 

project. That’s this ency- of the World Book 

clopedia’s forte: solid Encylopedia, which 

text intelligently organ- we as children hefted 





ized and linked in help- only in desperation, 
ful ways. It also includes — Think of the Grolier 1 
atimeline (type only,so Multimedia 

it’s not much fun to Encyclopedia like a Volvo station wagon: it 
look at, but the content may not get your family there in style, but 

is excellent), very sim- _ it'll get you there safely and well. 


ple maps, and lots of THE NEW GROLIEN MU TTMEDIA ENCYCLOPEDIA 


smart indexes and search CIERES BY SLSR ELECHGRIC FLIER 
functions. Of course we @ccrotm |] Miccrottw|]*149" 






































his may be a catalog to Voyager's 
Criterion Collection of laserdiscs 
but what a catalog it is. Cheek out 

+ clips from more than 140 wonderful 
movies, from the ridiculous (La Cage 


Aux Folles) to the sublime (Wild Straw- 


berries), the obscure (Floating Weeds) 





to the box-office hit (Ghostbusters), the 
classic (King Kong) to the cult favorite 
(Invasion of the Body Snatchers); 


wif nc 


+ pictures of over 1,000 principal actors 
as they appear in the films; 

+ and alittle Os¢ar icon to click on for 
Academy Awards info. 
Our favorites? Getting reac- 

quainted with Robby the 
Robot in Forbidden Planet, 
and watching Fred Astaire 
and Ginger Rogers do their 


thing in Swing Time. 








+ the complete liner notes, and a really 
smart, lively essay about each movie: 

+ all the stats and credits you could want 

+ fot only @ list. of alll that extra stuff the 
Criterion Colléetion is famous for 
(deleted scenes, related shorts, trailers 
and'so'on), but also examples like Syd 
Mead’s futuristic drawings fron Blade 
Runner and Martin Scorsese’s commen 


tary on Taxi Driver 


LA CAGE 


UX POLES 
2 ae 









Nobody does films on interactive video 
better than Criterion, and this CD doesn't 
cut any comers either. The clips retain the 
letterbox format of the original m6vies 
(whenever available), so none of the image 
is lost. And it’s only $24.95, plus a coupon 
good for $125 toward your nex! purchase 


of Criterion 
, “Wonderfully put together—an A+. And it’s packed 


with stuff. I'm still hayfhg fur'going through it and 
finding things, and I bought it six months ago.” 
—Matt Hinrichs, Tempe, AZ 


laserdises, so 







no whining 





DR. STRANGELOVE 




















CCRITEM || MECCRITEW | 





Om 












he first time we walked by a 
computer where A World 
Live was playing, we 


stopped dead in our tracks, 
weren't the only ones. This thirty- 








and we 





minute documentary is drop-dead 






































Murphy Stein produced ee 
A World Alive. anes 

Lots of nature films — = 
are made of old footage beautiful. Killer 
put together, but for A whales splash, 
World Alive they went bighorn sheep lock 


horns, jellyfish per- 
form marine ballet, 
kangaroos bound 
impossibly high in 
slow motion, flamin- 





gos take to wing ina 
pink mist, and on - 


and on, each Paes 4 


out and shot new 
stuff, like shots of 





animals being sequence more spe * 
born or hatched. tacular than the one before. 
‘There's a really Letting the pictures do mo 





the talking, James Earl Jones's 
@) ofaPacific ¥ Yay narration is restrained, and so is 
Ridley sea the design. 





turtle Although the contents are far 
coming from encyclopedic, basic informa- 
out of tion on each animal is included. 


Linked to the movie, which 
forms the core of the CD, is 
an interactive program showcasing 
more than one hundred species. 
The movie is cross-indexed by 
animal, geography, habitat, and 
activity. Check out the marine 
animals, or see which birds live in 





* point of view; central Asia, or go to the section 
then it follows the turtle of the movie called Delicate 
out into the ocean, Beginnings to find out about repro- 
underwater. Turtles are ductive strategies. Detailed infor- 
my favorite animals, mation about each species (diet, 
green turtles in par- life span, gestation, status) is avail- 


able on individual screens. You can 
test what you've learned with a 
fun, picture-oriented game. And 
the program is wonderfully intui- 
tive, so kids won't need any help 
finding their way around. 

The documentary was compiled 
by Sea Studios in collaboration 
with the St. Lou 


[A WORLD ALIVE 


‘e] 3/7 |@ cwoRLDM || MCWoRLDW ||*39" 
‘A! 








Ga 00. 














Ou: Bee 


e think of Douglas Adams as the author of the Hitchhiker's 
Guide to the Galaxy—in other words, as a superb chroni- 
cler of other-worldly life forms and one of the funniest peo- 

ple in the world. In Last Chance to See, Adams's habitat 

is earth and his subject is a serious one, but his sense of a 

* humor comes through intact. 

In Adams's words, this inspired collaboration began 
when “by some sort of journalistic accident” he was 
sent to Madagascar with Mark Carwardine to look for \ . 


LAST CHANCE TO SEE) ¢y Douglas Adams & Mark Camuardine 


an almost extinct form of lemur called the aye-aye. (This passage \ 
in the CD-ROM is accompanied by a photograph of Adams holding 

a lurid stuffed version of the hapless animal.) Adams supplies the 

narrative and Carwardine the zoological expertise, which is lucky 

since Adams describes the aye-aye as “a very strange-looking crea- 

ture that seems to have been assembled from bits of other ani- 

mals.” So begins an odyssey which takes. | 

Adams and Carwardine to the remotest 
corners of the earth in search of animals 
on the edge of extinction: vanishing elephants, 
egrets, rhinos, dolphins, and more. Getting 
there is seldom half the fun (imagine twenty 
hours on a small boat with a goat killed three 
days earlier—Komodo dragons like their meat 
smelly), even when the destination offers more 
poisonous snakes per foot than any other spot 
on earth (“Don't get bitten,” advised an inter- 
national expert on venom when consulted by : 
an anxious Adams). Adams's adventures are punctuated by reflections 
on evolution, the human animal, and the variety and fragility of life on 
our planet. 

The CD also contains pop-up sidebars about each species and its cur- 
rent status, menus for creating custom collections of data and images, 
and audio segments from the BBC radio series based on the book by the 
same name. The CD's design is nothing special, but we were seduced by 
Adams's hilarious narrative (he reads the entire book aloud), by the spec- 
tacular color photographs (over 700), and by the author's evident passion 


TO SEF 























Rodrigues fruit bat 


= 


i 












1-914-591-6481 





< 
> 
rs 
2 
w 
2 
e 
° 
° 
F 


for these rare creatures. If National Geographic had teeth and a “Excellent was oa 
sense of humor, it would look something like Last Chance to See. ve i gg 
1e reads, 
Ui 


About the authors: Douglas Adams's books, notably The 


andl 
way t 
wed Twas 
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and Mostly Harmless, going along Let's see } 








have made him famous around the world. more likeit!” ¢ 
i 4 Gunnin’ 
Bo Mark Carwardine is just as famous in zoo- pe x a) "2 \ 
@cvastcm |[MEcLastcw logical circles, ‘armel, 














“Never thought Id see 
my cousi1yon. computer! 
Good product” 
—John Garwardine, 
Darien, IL, 





hina thinks big. Where but its ancient capital of Xian 
would a 7,000-man terra-cotta army stand guard in mili- 
tomb? And who 








tary formation over an emperc 





NAAR would—or could—have commandeered such a tribute but the 


e- first emperor of China, Qin Shi Huang Di? After all, he unified 
China, founded the Chinese imperial system, built the Great Wall, and standardized 





Chinese writing, laws, weights, measures, and coinage, all in the third century B.< 
The appeal of this CD-ROM lies in its tangible sense of excite- 
ment. Dr. Ching-chih Chen speaks with awe of the privilege of 
exploring the site after hours. Walking in the soft dust, she 
looked down and realized, “Oh my God, I'm leaving my foot- 





First Emperor offers an intimate and otherw 





prints here 













THE LEGEND OF THE 


GREAT WALL 





What's the only man- 




















unavailable view of the figures (tourists aren't allowed to get made artifact visible from 
close to them and must follow a fixed, elevated route through the moon? The Great Wall 
the museum). Amazingly, each figure was modeled after an indi- of China. You probably 
vidual soldier, and the diversity of facial characteristics, hairstyles, knew that, but we bet you 
dress, and weapons (the ones actually used in battle) is didn’t know that this fact 
painstakingly documented in beautiful color pho- is prefigured in a Chinese 
tographs. This is no lifeless memorial, but a vivid testi- legend dating back to the 
monial to the reach of an extraordinary ruler. third century B.C. 
Making it wasn’t easy. China, which zealously ‘The story goes that in 
guards its national treasures, required a rigorous the very darkest hour of 
background check (ten prior visits to China and consulting stints with | the night, the First Em- 
World Health Organization, and the World Bank eventually did the job for Chen) peror of China dreamed 
Determined to visit the site of the ancient Afang Palace, she was told, “There's that his soul traveled to 
absolutely nothing there for you to see, Professor Chen,” and was reminded of the the moon. Gazing back 
00 pounds of camera equipment by bus through “non- from the moon’s surface, 





difficulties of lugging 2, 
reas. “In Professor Chen's dictionary, there is no such word as ‘difficult 





scenit 
coleagie gently informed the government representative. She got the footage. 
Dr. Chen's background is in science and technology (she is Pro- 
chool of Information Science at 































fessor of the Graduate 


Simmons College), and she makes the most of the 





available tools. The First Emperor of China con- 





tains a bilingual English/Chinese soundtrac 


a timeline; a chronology of Qin history; 





maps 
a glossary with Chinese ch: and an 
A 
Experts” section with commentary from 


; a thumbnail 





acter: 








the 





audio of Chinese pronunciation; an 





historians and archaeologist 
index to all the photographs; and an 
“Image Index,” 
which links the 


photographs to 
essays on every- 
thing from archers 
to weaponry. But 
it’s 
movies of the excavation in progress and 





r from dry scholarship. QuickTime 


aerial footage of the Great Wall, con- 
vey much of the excitement of 
being in on the greatest archaeo- 
logical find of the century 

|THE FIRST EMPEROR OF CHINA| 


(@crFirst || MEcFIRSTW 























Emperor Qin’s soul saw 
that his kingdom was 
barely a dot on the surface 
of the planet. At that very 
moment, the idea of build- 
ing the Great Wall came 
to him. His soul returned 
to earth, and when the 
First Emperor woke up 
he set tens of thousands 
of men to building a fif- 
teen-hundred-mile-long 
fortified boundary. Qin 
had vision—the wall 
enclosed an area vastly 
larger than his domain, so 
‘it would be encouraged 
to grow—but we bet he 
never dreamed he'd also 
be providing sightseeing 
for astronauts. 


D-ROMs tend to be 








their choi 





something completely 
different: CD-ROM as a 
contemplative experience. 
It’s not for the MTV-and- 


in-your-face, flaunting all 
and how 
much stuff is crammed onto the 
disc. Shining Flower proposes 


number-crunching moon—materi- 
alize and shake things up. Or you 
can just let the haunting music plz 
and glance at the screen every so 
often to see whether the Wanderer 
are aloft, 
ing along. 
The mere hint of a compulsory 








and his precious Flow 





afloat, or simply mose: 








house-music crowd, But if 





an animated journey of self- 


SHINING FLOWER) éy mage ine. 


religious 
experience is 
enough to 











discovery in the wordle: 
a gentle monklike figur 





for you. As mesmerizing music plays, the Wander 
cross the surreal landscapes of a blue-green 


journeys 
planet. (Instead of that electronically generated 





feeling, the images have a rich texture, almost like oil 
rated degree 


paintings.) There's a carefully orche 





: click on one of 





of interactivit; 
the live fields and funny 





and unpredictable char- 
acters—a carnivorous 
crab, for example, or a 


-ompany of the Wanderer, 
ppeals, Shining Flower’s 








make us check for emergency exits, but we don’t 
think Skining Flower 
Zen-like’ 





‘eligious—how about 





The Wanderer will take you along 
on his quest 
if you're up 
for it, and 
we enjoyed 
the trip. 





SHINING FLOWER 
vr 8) 

















@csHInim 











"30" 






































‘ove over Clue—multimedia murder is here, 
and it’s a lot more fun. Who left restaurateur 
‘Sam Rupert dead on the floor of his legendary 
wine cellar, taking only a bottle of 1947 Chateau Latour? 
And what about Elspeth Haskard laid out on the floor of 
her Chicago apartment, smeared with chicken blood 
and surrounded by weird paraphernalia of 
the voodoo religion she was studying for her 





the virtual forensics lab to work); QuickTime interviews 
with the likely suspects (the acting’s surprisingly good); 
alibis; miscellaneous sources like the victim's desk, cal- 
endar, and phone records; even expert testimony 
drummed up by Lucie. But before naming a suspect, you 
have to navigate a press conference successfully, and 
eyen then the judge may not grant your warrant (we 
began to understand why detectives get ulcers). So take 











THE VIRTUAL MURDER SERIES 


by Shannon Gilligan 

























doctorate? Luckily your dogged assistant, 
Lucie Fairwell, has filed the crime report, 
interviewed the suspects, and checked out their alibi 
But the clock is ticking: ninety percent of murders com- 
mitted in the United States are solved within six hours, 
and you have only six game hours before the chief takes 
you off the case. 
Where to turn? There's the crime report; the crime 

scene (zoom in as a camera shutter whirs away, and put 








Lik 


THE MAGIC DEATH 


® 
« 
C) 

° 


notes in your electronic notebook, and pay attention, 
because the clues are plenty subtle. It's easy to see how 
the Virtual Murder programs are constructed, and at first 
the solutions appear obvious, but there’s actually much 
more here than meets the eye. The “virtual” is deserved: 








the programs create a realistic and involving universe. 





Our inner Sherlock Holmes 


THE VIRTUAL MYSTERY S 





(we hadn't realized we had 








@cvirtum 








Micvirtuw| 


one) had a fine time. 





749" 











vf nc@ 





MYST 


yst is a class act. Even 

under the unconducive 

fluorescent lights at 
MacWorld, where we elbowed 
our way through a crowd for a 
first look, the game's extraordinary depth and detail 











came across clearly. “You are about to be drawn 
into an amazing alternative reality,” the user manual 
solemnly declares, and Myst makes good on that 


claim. Its mythic landscape consists of stunning 3-D 





color images and QuickTime movies that material- 
ize in unlikely places. We wandered through beauti- 
ful pine 
forests, puz- 
zled over the 
controls of 


subterranean 





command centers, scrutinized sunken galleons 
and rockets poised for takeoff, painstakingly 


4 deciphering a mosaic of visual 





systems and code 





J The quest is to figure out who 
destroyed the mythical books of Atrus, an explorer and creator from another time. 
This involves journeying to distant worlds, unraveling and piecing together the narra- 
tives you encounter, deciding whom to believe, identifying “that defiler of sacred tra- 
ditions.” You'll need to record every clue you come across in the blank 
Journal of Myst, because you're on your own. Myst is wildly challenging. 
ts hint book is 





(For the strategy-impaired, the Myst Official Game Sec 
ailable by mail, though no one we know has confessed to ordering it.) 





Why did friends of ours get lost in Myst for days? Jon Katz said it 


best in Rolling Stone: “Myst’s strange, mystical world rewards not the 





quick reflexes of Super Mario Bros. but creative reasoning, The more 

we guess, the more we guess right, and the more we guess right, the more our confi- 

dence builds, the more risks we take, the more quickly we move 

towards the conclusion. The thrill is not in the story so much as in 

discovering that this technology can be mastered by intuition.” y 
Though short on character development, Myst is an important r 

step in the development of a new kind of computer-based fiction. We loved the suc- 

cessful blend of science fiction with good old mock-medieval magic, of the natural 

with the surreal. A modem-toting Maid Marian would be right at home in Myst, 

though we wouldn't know whether to reach her via parchment scroll or e-mail. 









cellent sound effects (optional) anchor the uncanny sensation 
of actually inhabiting this creepy, intriguing, imaginary land. 


It’s absolutely worth a visit 








[Mi Y 




















Dcmyst!m || Micmyst!w |] 


























TO ORDER BY PHONE(S) 1-800-446-2001 


on ® 


en we 
reada 
poem, we 
can sit back and 
think about it; 
when we hear it 
performed, all the passion 
and personality emerge. 
Wouldn't it be great to have 


POETRY IN MOTION || 6 Ron Mann 


the best of both worlds available at the click of a 
mouse? Dramatically combining two media, Poetry 
in Motion makes it happen. Ron Mann's superb film 
of twenty-four celebrated poets performing their 
work is linked to the printed texts on the screen. 
‘The result is a splendid synergy between the 
spoken and written word, a breakthrough for 
people dissatisfied with the single dimension of 
the printed page, and a perfect tonic for anyone 
who thinks poetry is dull. You don’t have to be a 
poetry lover to be seduced by William Burroughs’s 
unforgettable rasp or Helen Adam’s psychedelic 


reminiscences, but this exuberant celebration Halen aimed 
may turn you into one. lam, Miguel Algarin, 


‘Amiri Baraka, Ted Berrigan, Charles gE 


Bukowski, William S. Burroughs, 

















xe} 
a 
a 
o 
$ 
6 
o 
z 
6 
4 
© 
$ 
a 
= 
= 
o 
= 
o 
3 
co 
5 
° 
= 
ro) 
= 
= 
il 
uy 
w 
w 
io 
f 
© 
o 
oO 


Poet ion fe 
ty in Motion features performances, 


interviews, and original texts by 


John Cage, Jim Carroll, Jayne Cortez, 
Robert Creeley, Christopher Dewdney, 


Diane DiPrima, Kenward Elmslie, Four Horsemen, 


jiorno, Michael 





Allen Ginsberg, John C 


McClure, Ted Milton, Michael Ondaatje, 





Ed Sanders, Ntozake Shange, Gary 


der, 





Ww nd Anne W 


POETRY IN MOTION 
@McPOETRH |] oo nm. nS) [[°QO™ 





Tom 





























TO ORDER BY rax ©) 1-914-591-6481 


@ 


‘ant a chill to go down 

your spine? Listen to 

Allan Gurganus reading 
Paul Laurence Dunbar’s “When 
Malindy Sings.” Or try Stanley 





matched with Poe's 
“The Conqueror 
Worm.” Nearly six hours of audio 





(recorded at the poetry reading 
hosted by Garrison Keillor to cele- 


brate the book’s publication) are a 
wonderful reminder that much of 


Crouch reading “Casey at the B 
or Cynthia Ozick a | 





American Poetry pulls it off. Just for fun we 
searched on “prairie,” and rambled from Melville’s 
“Clara: A Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land” 
(“the breath of Sharon's prairie land”) to Emily 
Dickinson's “Vast Prairies of Air” to Bret Harte to 
Emma Lazarus's “In Exile” (“Up from 
the prairie the tanned herdsmen 

| pass”) to a Blackfeet Indian “Song 

\ for a Fallen Warrior” (“You will 

| scalp the enemy in the green 








\ prairie”) and ended with an endear- 

| ing song called “Sweet Betsy from 
Pike” (“Their wagons broke down 
with a terrible crash / And out on 


age 1.2057 
this material was written to be read annary 26.182 rao the prairie rolled all kinds of 

‘ atten = 
aloud, in an era when poetry was \ ane mae trash”). English homework never 


part of everyday life. There's lovely 


used to be this entertaining. 








edited by John Hollander 














music, too: spirituals per- 
formed by the Ebony 
Ecumenical Ensemble, folk | 
music, and entertaining 
parlor songs. 

The greatest pleasure, | 
though, lies in the sheer 
quantity and diversity 
the material on the CD. 
We had no idea that 
early American poets 





came in so many 
shapes and sizes—solitary 
visionaries and congenial story- 
tellers, humorists and dissidents, 
songwriters and philosophers, 
immigrants and Native 
Americans—and all their voices 











are represented. Some we ex- 
pected: Emerson, Bryant, | 
Longfellow, Whittier, Melville, 
Whitman. Others surprised: the | 
actress Fanny Kemble, Presidents 
Lincoln and Adams, Zuni 
storytellers, Edith Wharton. 
So did the forms: comic light- 
verse, recitation pieces from 
the days when schoolchild- 
ren were routinely required 
to “speak a piece,” dialect 
poems, healing rituals, bal- 
lads, and children’s verse. 
It’s the rare reference 
work that’s encyclopedic | 
without being stuffy, but | 

















/ERMAN MELVILLE 
sie 








WALT WHITMAN 
(1819-1892) 


Leaves of Grass (1855) 
een aye 


(And wat Lemme you sal cre, 
For every tom banging ome ws pod belongs you. 








ole snd int my se. 
an nd ote a my oa 
‘samme pe 


seervings para 


Hour nd rooms ae ful f perf... the habe 
fe cowed with perme 

emt he nga pet and ow tad et 

‘Tae ction would intone meant ol nt 
wes, 


| The poems are a pleasure to read 

\ against handsome backdrops of per- 

\ iod paintings, and students will 

| appreciate the timeline, biographical 
| notes, annotations, and extensive 

\ indexes. American Poetry combines 
| ‘The Library of America two-volume 
| edition into a single definitive refer- 

ence, and serves an extraordinary 











cultural legacy very well indeed. 


| About the editor: Distinguished poet and 
| critic John Hollander is A. Bartlett Giamatti 
Professor of English at Yale University and 
a chancellor of the Academy of American 
| Poets. The Library of America is dedicated 
to preserving the works of America’s great- 
est writers in handsome, enduring volumes, 
| featuring 
authorita- 
| tive texts. 








We'll devote some space in each issue of 





IXTY toa _ entertainment media, particularly television, may be 


controversial piece of writing. To start things off, here's _ the sweetest of poison pills. Please write to 3SIXTY 


Neil Postman’s introduction to Amusing Ourselves to with your opinion of Postman’s ideas or recommend 


Death in which he raises the specter that modern other pieces (on any subject) for future issues. 





What would you like 
to see in this space? 
Fax your suggestion 
to 212-431-5799. 
‘e were keeping our eye on 1984. When the year came and 
the prophecy didn’t, thoughtful Americans sang softly in 
praise of themselves. The roots of liberal democracy had 
held. Wherever else the terror had happened, we, at least, had not been 
visited by Orwellian nightmares. But we had forgotten that alongside 
Orwell's dark vision, there was another—slightly older, slightly less 
Brave New World. 
Contrary to common belief even among the educated, Huxley and 


well known, equally chilling: Aldous Huxle: 





Orwell did not prophesy the same thing. Orwell warns that we will be 





overcome by an externally imposed oppression. But in Huxley’s vision, 
no Big Brother is required to deprive people of their autonomy, maturity, 
and history. As he saw it, people will come to love their oppression, to 
adore the technologies that undo their capacities to think. 

What Orwell feared were those who would ban books. What Huxley 
feared was that there would be no reason to ban a book, for there 
would be no one who wanted to read one. Orwell feared those who 
would deprive us of information. Huxley feared those who would give 
us so much that we would be reduced to passivity and egoism. Orwell 
feared that the truth would be concealed from us. Huxley feared the 
truth would be drowned in a sea of irrelevance. Orwell feared we 
would become a captive culture. Huxley feared we would become a 
trivial culture, preoccupied with some equivalent of the feelies, the 
orgy porgy, and the centrifugal bumblepuppy. As Huxley remarked in 
Brave New World Revisited, the civil libertarians and rationalists who 
are ever on the alert to oppose tyranny “failed to take into account 
man’s almost infinite appetite for distractions.” In 1984, Huxley added, 
people are controlled by inflicting pain. In Brave New World, they are 
controlled by inflicting pleasure. In short, Orwell feared that what we 
hate will ruin us. Huxley feared that what we love will ruin us. 

This book 





about the possibility that Huxley, not Orwell, was right. 


NEIL POSTMAN IS THE AUTHOR OF A 








@. 









Pei 








“Bsperanza’s and 0 period piece, ema as a heroine who ¢ usly changes 
Ramon’s relationship, Salt of the Earth is her destiny. Taking strength from 
enmeshed in its matrix a profoundly pow- the women around her, she dares to confront 
of class struggle and erful political document. It usband. “Why are you afraid to have me 





racism, became a well- 
AN EXCERPT FROM THE 


PUBLISHER'S 
INTRODUCTION 


known romance for a 
whole generation of 
women and men— 
those of us who came 





to political conscious- 
ness during the 1960s 
and '70s....Salt of the 
Earth became the film 
that we saw every 
March 8th, Inter- 
national Women’s 
Day. If there was ever 
a film which drama- 
tized our wish for a 
new kind of relation- 
ship between men and 
women, Salt was 
—Aleen Stein 
























was ede as a deliberate 










SALT OF THE EARTH 


Puscrsnes py vovact ee 


i 








to onWEREE PHONE(S) 1-800-446-2001 


ust before this catalog closed, we 
got a call from a company called 
Ignition. They had produced a 
CD-ROM for Amnesty International, 
for free, with all services donated. 
Would we be interested in distributing 
the disc, on a nonprofit basis? We were steeled for that 


do-gooder, low-budget look, but the quality and power of 


the CD took us by surprise. When we admitted as much, 
the producers graciously pointed out that “if you're not 
going to pay people anyway, you can recruit the best and 














section suggests how to take individual action; and there 
are loads of reference documents for teachers and 
students. Most Wha 
affecting are the sto- 
ries of former pris 





oners of conscience 
from Amnesty case 
files—including 
Vaclav Havel, Paul 
Hill, Hsiu-tien 
Annette Lu (founder 








most expensive ones.” 
Amnesty Interactive 
uses stories about people 





AMNESTY INTERACTIVE 


by Amnesty International 














and ideas to set out what each of us needs to know about 
human rights. The evolution of the concept is traced 
from ancient times 
into the twentieth 
century; an atlas 
documents human 
rights conditions 
around the world; a 
What-You-Can-Do 





of a feminist press and arrested in Taiwan in 1979) and 
Gitobu Imanyara (jailed repeatedly for stating his views 
in the Nairobi Law Monthly)—whose articulate voices 
remind us that these are not remote Third-World issues. 
We said yes. We hope you do too. 





(Note: due to the non-profit nature 
of this project, Amnesty Interactive 
does not count toward the “three 
or more” discount on titles.) 


AMNESTY INTERACTIVE 


Posttseto ey Tenition 


@CANNESM T] sr ten ove. nS) [10 

































peEr 


x s children, we loved Jean de Brunhoff's 


aw 


bye | 
/ Babar books; it never bothered us that the 


~| didn’t look much like his counter- 


king of the elephants 















part in National Geographic 


AMANDASTORIES 


Amanda Goodenough’s delightfully idiosyn- 





cratic freehand drawings will never win any 





prizes for camel anatomy, but their charm and 
completely personal nature won us 


over in the same way. If you're 





expecting full-color animation, 


AmandaStories isn’t the way to go, 


| <a> 


appeal all its own. And the affection between the little 


but its simple integrity has an 


girl and Inigo the cat is palpable. 
AmandaStories was the very first “point-and-click” 
program for kids. Not only is there a strong narrative—in | | 


ten separate stories Inigo explores his house, his di 





am, 
the outside world, and Your Faithful Camel ventures as 
far afield as the North Pole—but where you click actually 


ind 





determines the course of the story. As children (ages 


up) move intuitively through one adventure after another 


off; buy 4, get 15% off; buy 6 or more items and get 25% off your total order! 


the combination of color animations, great sound effects, original 





music 





id a variety of endings challenges and 
delights them. Us too. = 
aon ] 
About the author 
Amanda Goodenough 


Buy 2, get 10% 





lives in Los Angeles 


with Inigo and friends. 


“pxcellent. My four-year-old lovesiit” 
Dr. Fernand Martinez, Ann ir, MI 


~~ 
AMANDASTORIES| 


CAMANDH | 
















a«@ 


My grandmother was a great story- 
teller, I was raised on stories, and 
stories have been the passion of my 
life. The dream ended with me riding 
home on my white horse, realizing 
“I'm not making enough money!” and 
having to go to work at a boring job! 
While working, I continued to tell 
stories. Some storytellers stick to 
their lines, but if, for instance, I said, 
“And what do you think was down in 
the well?” and a child came up with 
a likely suggestion, I'd run with it. 

I sent my work to children’s book 
publishers and got back rejection 
notices and posted them on the 
fridge. I was running out of hope 
when I learned about HyperCard. I 
‘was not very computer literate, but 





HyperCard was so easy to use that I 








simple 





* as able to create 
A FEW WORDS FROM 
BY interactive story called 
Inigo Gets Out. Lots of peo- 
ple liked the story and told other peo- 
ple about it, and I was encouraged. 
M 
until my birthday—I would find a 
publisher and fulfill the dream of 
being published by the age of thirty. 
I went to my first MacWorld Expo 
with a new version of Inigo Gi 
Out ona floppy disk. At a software 
exchange meeting, I timidly asked a 
humble, unimportant-looking man if 
I could put my stack onto one of the 
Macintoshes there. He humbly, unim- 
portantly said he didn’t know. I said 
bravely, “This is Inigo Gets Out.” 
He immediately said, “You must be 
Amanda Goodenough. I'm Bob Stein 











ybe, finally—it was two months 

























of the Voyager Company. I want to 
publish your work.” Talk about 
dreams coming true! 

Traditional storytelling is by its 
nature very difficult to capture in 
any medium without losing a lot of 
its vitality. But by allowing the per- 
son playing with the story to have 
some input, HyperCard and other 
multimedia authoring tools provide 
oral storytellers with an invaluable 








bridge to publication—the ability to 
concretize their art, yet still interact 
with their audience. 

















[FRE AE 2008 T- 





< 








MFREAKT G0) 








Keep it covered 
with this classic 
cap. Durable 
cotton in basic 
black with 
elastic strap— 
one size fits 
all brains. 

















[MBRINHT 





r 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l and ex! rge. 
l 
l 
I 
l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 





The Residents say “Buy or is screened on brilliant purple. 
Die!” But we say, “Buy—or buy Get the CD so you can learn to 
a bunch of CD-ROMs and get squeal “Woo! Woo!” just like 


the T-shirt FREE!” The eyeball Rodney does! Available in adult 
really flies. Available in large 






For more 
T-shirts, 


see page 14 





EE 
Woo! Woo! The Wonder Window 


large and extra-large as well as 
kids’ medium (8-10). 


[nwoowor [Pox n(5 [om 15% [wort 2"] 


















DUR BRATN CANVAS B46] 
ERIN, Wits cried ono aah 
YOUR back and ood fr clapping 
BRAIN 


VOYAGER 





BRING 
YOUR 
BRAIN 


VOYAGER 














EAT! EAT! EAT! The blue-plate special 
from Deena’s Diner never looked so good, 
This four-piece setting is dishwasher safe 

and cooler than anything else on the shelf. 
mRODCHT [[=»(5)]] 

















TGOPovasesPedvesasobasedcoddddovevdssedddh 


Type in your own 
margin notes 





First 





Mark passages 
with black lines 


Amusing Ourselves to 
Death by Neil Postman 
Brave New World 

by Aldous Huxley 

Set in the year AF. 
(After Ford) , Brave 
New World depicts a 
utopia without art, with- 
out books, without cre- 








rational 





inquiry. 
Sixty years 
after the 
publication 
of Huxley's 
master- 
piece, Neil 
Postman asks whether 
its vision hasn't already 
come true, Has addic- 
tion to mindless enter- 
tainment blinded us to 
the consequences? 

We've reprinted Post- 
man’s introduction on 

p. 41 of this catalog 
because his message is 
‘So important. (EAMUSIM 
Meamusiw "19" 















Previous 


Dogear 
(mark) 
page 





Issac Asimov— 

The Complete Stories 
Story after story kept 
us up late. Crammed 





with classics of the 
genre, this definitive 
collection includes 
“The Last Question” 
(which Asimov 
reveals in his intro- 
duction to be his 
favorite story of all), 
“Nightfall,” voted the 
best science fiction 
story of all time, and 
forty-four others 
showcasing Asimov's 
vast imagination, tal- 
ent, and mastery of 
the form. @EASTMOM 
MeEAsimow *19% 














Read page-by- 
page or access a 
page by number 


Go to other 
chapters 


Find any word or 
phrase in text or 
margin notes 


Go to 
marked pages 


Select style: 
plain, bold, 
or underline 


Paper clip 
a page 


Hold mouse down on 
any word to search text 





Genius: The Life 
and Science of 
Richard Feynman 
by James Gleick 
Architect of quan- 
tum mechanics 
enfant _e=m 
terri- 
ble of 





the 
atomic 
bomb. 





pro- 
ject, 
win- 


JAMES GLEICK 


ner of the Nobel 
Prize, physicist 
Richard Feynman 
has played a part in 
every major scien- 
tific drama of the 
twentieth century. 
James Gleick, 
author of Chaos, 
brings a novelist’s 
touch and a scien- 
tist’s grasp of the 
facts to this superb 
biography. @EGENTUM 
MeEcentuw *19" 








B® 


Expanded Books are 
books published on 
floppy disks. They 
contain the com- 
plete, unaltered text 
of the hardcover edi- 
tions, but generally 
cost less. You can 
load them onto the 
hard drive of your 


EXPANDED 
BOOKS? 


laptop and read them 
anywhere: on the 
plane, at the beach, 
at bedtime (by the 
light of the screen). 
They're designed to 
look and read like 
the printed versions, 
but let you do lots 
more than just read, 
You can navigate 
through them easily, 
underline passages, 
write and save mar- 
gin notes, copy pas- 
sages into a note- 
book and print or 
export them to 
another document, 
dogear or paper clip 
pages, enlarge or 
change the typeface, 
or search for specific 
words or phrases. 
Some Expanded 
Books have features 





unique to the elec- 
tronic edition: call 
up pictures, sounds, 
author's annotations 
and end notes just by 
clicking on a word. 
Expanded Books 
will run on Macintosh 
PowerBooks or desk- 
top systems with 13” 
monitors or on any 
Windows system. 
‘They require approxi- 
mately 1200K of RAM. 
For a complete 
list of the more than 
100 EBs that will run 
on your Macintosh, 
call 1-800-446-2001. 

















unretouched 
photograph of 
Kathleen Francis's win $100 worth of 


iguana, Marla, 
A READER WRITE 


EXPANDED BOOKS 
CAN GO 
ANYWHERE 








A doctoral student at the 
University of Connecticut, 
Kathleen Francis studies 
iguanas. She'd read about 
Expanded Books in a 
computer magazine, and 
before heading to Panama 
for her first research trip, 
she bought a copy of The 
Annotated Alice. “After a 
long day of chasing igua- 
nas in the rain forest, I 
wanted a form of enter- 
tainment I could load onto 
my PowerBook without 
worrying about dropping 
books in the mud,” 
Francis explained cheer- 
fully. “At night I could 
read by the light of the 
screen.” Since computers 
don’t appreciate heat and 
humidity, Francis bought 
hers a neoprene wetsuit. 
The machine and Alice 
held up nicely. “I was off 
ina strange place and so 
was Alice, and she was 
great company,” reported 
Francis. “I'm going back to 
Panama, and this time I'm 
taking William Gibson. “ 

Stay tuned for the next 
installment: cyberpunk in 
the jungle... 








Send in a story 
about your 
Expanded Book 
for a chance to 


free EBs. 


The Complete Hitchhiker's Guide 
to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams 
When planet earth is demolished 

to make way for an interstellar 
bypass, Arthur 

Dent joins an 
intrepid ba 





wanderers in 
their search 
for the mean- 


A 





ing of the 
universe. Far 
from intrepid himself, he relies 
heavily on the Hitchhiker's 

Guide to the Galaxy, a pocket- 
sized but bottomless electronic 
compendium of invaluable 





information. What better format for your 
‘own copy of this cosmic handbook than 
an electronic version like Arthur's? Just 
don't laugh so hard you drop your com- 
puter. This Expanded Book contains 
four volumes: The Hitchhiker's Guide to 
the Galaxy; The Restaurant at the End 
of the Universe; Life, the Universe, and 
Everything; and So Long, and Thanks 
Jor All the Fish. Don't ask why Adams 




















And | Quote by 
Ashton Applewhite, 
William R. Evans, & 
Andrew Frothingham 
Want to loosen up 
the audience with a 
great opening line? 
Writing a paper? 
Racking your brains for that sayii 

your grandmother loved? What could 
be more convenient than a terrific quo- 








tation reference book right on your 
computer? Search on a word, phrase, 
or name, select the quote or saying you 
like best, and export it right to your 


text document. Or just browse, but 








watch out: And I Quote may prove 
addictive. Thousands of quotes, from 

old chestnuts to the newly minted, 

from Aesop to Allen (Woody), prove 

that a quote doesn’t have to be ancient 

to be classic. Great jokes, too, @EANDIQM 
MBeanprow *19” 


MORE 


calls it a trilogy. @EHXITCHM MJEHITCHW "19" 


The Autobiography of Malcolm X 
as told to Alex Haley 


If any one man articulated 
the struggle of African- 


Americans in the 1960s, it RSs 
YY 


was Malcolm X. His pas- e 








sionate and challenging 
message—that the black 
man should be liberated 
from society rather than 


integrated into it—is every bit as resonant in 


the 1990s, making The Autobiography of 
Malcolm X a classi 
black experience in America. @ EMALCOM 


Wemaccow *19” ( ) 





MALCOLM X 
’ 


Yj 
Las 
p 





in the literature of the 


Jurassic Park 
by Michael Crichton 

Jurassic Park phenomena 
have been cropping up just 
about everywhere, so why not 
‘on your computer? And what 
could be a more appropriate 
locale for this wildly suspense- 
ful tale of 
high tech- 
nology run 
amok, in 


JURASSIC 
PARK 


which 
genetically 
engineered 
dinosaurs 
and human 
shortsightedness threaten the 
whole planet. For the electronic 
edition, Michael Crichton has 
added his own special effects: 
dinosaur cries and pop-up illus- 
trations of the great lizards. 

“No version [of Jurassic Park] 
has given me greater pleasure 
than this edition from 

Voyager,” he writes in his spe- 
cial introduction. We bet it'll be 
more fun for you, too.@ EJURASM 
Mevurasw *19" 





@ 22a >> Dro oe @4 


TAS 2227 RQQVQ0G a aaaa 


CodDdoOSSedeoECedHD 














CF mict 
AND MEN 


Of Mice and Men / 
Cannery Row / 

The Red Pony / The Peart 
by John Steinbeck 

These books have become 
American classics because 
of the way they evoke the 
courage of the ordinary 
man in the face of grief 
and hardship. ‘They're 
whopping good stories, 
too. John Steinbeck won 
the Nobel Prize for Liter- 
ature in 1962, @ EMICEAM 
@ emiceaw “19” 


out it. (Se 






Zen and the 
Art of Motorcycle 
Maintenance 

be! Ce pets and Lila 

ie by Robert M. Pirsig 
Zen and the Art of 
Motorcycle 
Maintenance 





an 


American classic, 
captured the freewheeling and quest- 
ing spirit of the "70s. Part Jack 
Kerouac, part Carlos Castaneda, 
Robert Pirsig rode across the United 
States, always going the extra mile, 
always wrestling with the really tough 
questions (the meaning of life, for 
example). More than fifteen years 
later, Pirsig chronicled a different 
journey, down the Hudson River in a 
sailboat manned by philosopher-nar- 
rator Phaedrus and an unlikely com- 
panion, the utterly disruptive Lila. 
The story of their catastrophic and 
comic encounter, Lila is an explo- 
ration of American identity and val- 
ues every bit as poignant and 
unorthodox as its famous predeces- 
sor. This Expanded Book pairs the 
two for the first time. @EZENANM 

@ EZeNANw "24" 





time. Cyberspace does 
have a road map— 
don’t leave home with- 





surfers can hand out 
copies of this book 
instead of fielding the 
same questions over and 
over.) @EINTERM 
GEINTERW 29" 





The Internet Companion: A Beginner's 
Guide to Global Networking 

by Tracey LaQuey with Jeanne C. Ryer 

Just exactly what is the Internet? And how 





does it work? Here 
your guide to essential 

Internet concepts, termi- 
nology, and too! 
ten in plain English and 
including Internet 

connection software 








and a free hour of 
connect 





soned net 








A Wrinkle in Time / A Wind in the Door / 
A Swiftly Tilting Planet / Many Waters 
by Madeleine L'Engle 

When we recently read A Wrinkle in 
Time to our children, we were delighted 
to find it every bit as mesmerizing—and 


spine-tingling—as we had at age ten. Like 


The Hobbit, it appeals to all ages; no 
wonder it's won so 
many book awards. 
When a wrinkle in 
time (a tesseract) cata- 
pults two of the Murry 
children, Meg and 
Charles Wallace, and 
their friend Calvin 
O'Keefe into outer = 
space, their epic struggle with the fore: 
of evil begins. This Expanded Book con- 
tains Madeleine L'Engle’s entire Time 
Quartet, along with Many Waters, in 
which the twins, Sandy and Dennys 
Murry, discover tessering for themselves. 
Saying this storytelling genius will intro- 
duce young readers to a whole new uni- 
verse (one inhabited by manticores, 
nephilim, mitochondria, unicorns, 
kythings, and other extraordinary phe- 
nomena) is a splendid understatement. 
@EWRINKM PBEWRINKW D1" 











like calm. Quoting liberally from 
A.A. Milne’s 
well as from Lao-tse, Confucius, 
Buddha, and Zen koans, 
Benjamin Hoff has fashioned a 
wise and humorous Taoist mani- 
festo that makes this ancient phi- 
losophy accessible right here, 
































TAO 
OF 
OOH 


on 


classic, as 


right now. 


ETAOOFM EMJETAOOFW “19” 


Neuromancer / 

Count Zero / 

Mona Lisa Overdrive 

by William Gibson 

Jack into the Matrix, con- 
sole cowboys. More than 
any other novelist, William 


sibson deserves to be 
read in electronic form. 
His vision of cyberspace in 
the twenty-first century—a 
navigable electronic hallu- 
cination where the line 
between human and 
machine barely exists— 
put cyberpunk on the map. 
This Expanded Book 
brings his three trail-blaz- 
ing novels together for the 
first time. @ENEUROM 
MeEneuRow “19 





& 
+ 
© 
“ 
a 
a 
ef 
= 





TO ORDER BY FAX 


1-800-446-2001 


PHONE: 


MAIL: ONE BRIDGE STREET, IRVINGTON, NY 10533 ® E-MAIL: ORDERS @3SIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 


FAX: 1-914-591-6481 


un 


dex 











TITLE ORDER CODE TECHSPECS PAGE —PRICE 
cCD-ROMS e a eu ® ® 
All My Hummingbirds Have Alibis CALLMYM N/A Qacd- 26 $39.95 
AmandaStories CAMANDH — CAMANDH 2 2 43 $39.95 
American Poetry: The Nineteenth Century CAMERIM N/A 2ac - 40 $49.95 
Amnesty Interactive CAMNESM N/A 2ac od 42 $10.00 
Art Gallery CARTGAM —CARTGAW os 1 10 $79.95 
Baseball's Greatest Hits CBASEBH CBASEBH 2be 2 3 $49.95 
Beethoven: Symphony No. 9, CDC CBEETOM CBEETOW 1d f 2 $50.95, 
Cinema Volta CCINEMH CCINEMH Qc | 2 26 $49.95 
Comic Book Confidential CCOMICH N/A Ye - 16 $49.95 
Countdown CCOUNTH N/A 2 E 21 $29.95 
Criterion Goes to the Movies CCRITEM CCRITEW 2c 2 31 $24.95 
Microsoft Dinosaurs CDINOSM CDINOSW 2 1 18 $79.95, 
Dvotik: Symphony No. 9 

“From the New World,” CDC CDVORAM N/A ad 1B $50.05 
Ephemeral Films 1931-1960 CEPHENH © CEPHEMH te 2 29 $20.95 
Exotic Japan CEXOTIH CEXOTIH 2ac 1 28 $49.95 
‘The First Emperor of China CFIRSTM CFIRSTW 2be 2 35 $49.95, 
First Person: Donald Norman, 

Defending Human Attributes CNORMAM = N/A 2be py $49.95 
First Person: Marvin Minsky, Society of Mind CMINSKM = =—N/A 2be 4 $49.95 
First Person: Stephen Jay Gould, On Evolution CGOULDM N/A 2be 25 $49.95 
‘The Residents: Freak Show CFREAKM N/A 2be 20 $49.95 
‘The New Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia CGROLIM —CGROLIW = 1 30 $149.95 
‘A Hard Day's Night CHARDDM CHARDDH = be 19 $39.95 
How Computers Work CHOWCOM N/A 2ac 15 $79.95 
I Photograph to Remember CIPHOTM CIPHOTW © 2acd 1 7 $39.95 
Last Chance to See CLASTCM CLASTCH -2acd 1 a $49.95 
Macbeth CMACBEM =—N/A Qe u $49.95 
Using Macromedia Director ‘CMACROM N/A ac - 17 $49.95 
‘The Complete Maus CCMAUSM N/A 2be 1 $49.95 
Mozart: The “Dissonant” Quartet, CDC CMOZADM —CMOZADW i 2 $49.95 
Musical Instruments cMUSICM CHUSTCW 2 1 4 879.95 
‘Myst CMYSTIM CMYSTIW 2ac 2 37 $69.95 
Planetary Taxi CPLANEM =—N/A 2a 21 $39.95 
Poetry in Motion CPOETRH CPOETRH Qe 2 39 $20.95 
Rodney's Wonder Window CRODNEH CRODNEH 2ac 2 5 $39.95 
Ruff's Bone CRUFFSH CRUFFSH 2 1 23 $39.95 
Salt of the Earth SALTON =—N/A 2be 42 $49.95 
Seventh Guest CSEVENM CSEVEND 2 pos 27 $99.99 
Shining Flower CSHINIM N/A 2ac 36 $39.95 
ASilly Noisy House CSILLYH CSILLYH 2a 2 9 $49.95 
‘Small Blue Planet, CSMALLM CSMALLW = ac 4 $79.95 
So I've Heard, vol. 1: Bach and Before csorvim N/A id - 38 $24.95 
‘So I've Heard, vol. 2: The Classical Ideal Csolv2m N/A ld 38 $24.95 
So I've Heard, vol. 3: Beethoven & Beyond SOIV3H_— CSOIV3H (1 38 $24.95 
Richard Strauss: Three Tone Poems, CDC CSTRAUM CSTRAUW ld if 33 $49.95 












































TITLE ORDER CODE TECH SPECS PAGE PRICE 
MORE CD-ROMS e a eu @ ® 
Stravinsky: The Rite of Spring, CDC CSTRAVM CSTRAVW ld ht 13 $59.95 
Take Five CTAKESH CTAKESH = ac. 2 8 $29, 
‘The Best of TED cTeDDIM = W/A 7 "v $19.95 
Tortoise and the Hare CTORTOM CTORTOW 2 1 23 $59.95 
Franz Schubert; “The Trout” Quintet, CDC CTROUTM CTROUTW Id 1 33 $49.95, 
‘Truths & Fictions CTRUTHM N/A 2be = 6 $49.95 
Virtual Mystery Series 
(Magic Death & Sam Rupert) 2 CD set CVIRTUM = CVIRTUW 2be 1 36 $49.95 
Who Built America? CWHOBUM N/A 2be - 2 $49.95 
Who Built America? Education Edition 
5 special-edition CD-ROMS & teaching guide CWHOEDM. N/A 2be - 2 $195.00 
A World Alive CWORLDM CWORLDW 2 32 $39.95, 
Xplora CXPLORM N/A a 6 $60.95 
EXPANDED BOOKS 
Amusing Ourselves to Death: 
with Brave New World EAMUSIM EAMUSIV EB EB 45 $19.95 
And I Quote EANDIOM EANDION =- EB EB 46 $19.95 
Asimov—The Complete Stories, vol. 1 EASIMOM EASIMOW =-EB EB 45 $19.95 
Genius: The Life and Seience 
of Richard Feynman EGENIUM EGENIUW EB EB 4% $19.95 
‘The Complete Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy EHITCHM ENITCHW = «EB «EB 46 $19.95 
Internet Companion EINTERM EINTERW = EB EB a $20.95 
Jurassic Park* EJURASM EJURASW* EB EB 46 $19.95 
‘The Autobiography of Malcolm X EMALCOM EMALCOW = «EBB. 46 $19.95 
Of Mice and Mer/Cannery Row/ 
‘The Pearl/The Red Pony EMICEAM EMICEAW = EB EB. a7 $19.95 
Neuromancer/Count Zero/Mona Lisa Overdrive ENEUROM ENEUROW EB EB a7 $19.95 
The Tao of Pool/The Te of Piglet ETAOOFM ETAOOFW EB EB 47 $19.95 
A Wrinkle in Time/A Wind in the Door? 
A Swiftly Tilting Planet/Many Waters EWRINKM EWRINKW EB EB M7 $24.95 
Zen and the Art of 
Motorcycle Maintenance and Lila EZENANM EZENANW EB EB 47 $24.95 
vers oe MPC compnbic cu rd th spake oF sdphener 
1TEM cope PAGE price || ITEM CODE PAGE PRICE 
STUFF ® ©@ T-SHIRTS ® © 
Scholastic Books Beethoven MBEETHT 14 $15.00 
Exploring Space MGALESB 22 $19.95 Comic Book Confidential MCOMICT 14 $15.00 
Musical Instruments MGALMIB 22 $19.95 Macbeth HNACBET 14 $15.00 
Paint and Painting MGALPPB 22 $19.95 Shining Flower MSHINIT 14 $15.00 
‘Taming Fire NGALTFB 22 $1905 Text NTEXTFT 1d $15.00 
A World Alive (kid size) MWORLDT 14 $12.00 
Other A World Alive MWORLDT 14 $15.00 
Bring Your Brain Bag MBRINBG 44 $18.00 Freak Show MFREAKT 44 $15.00 
Rodney China MRODCHI 44 $49.95. Rodney's Wonder Window (kid size) MWOOWOT 44 $12.00 
Bring Your Brain Hat MBRINHT 44 $10.00 Rodney's Wondler Window MWoowoT 44 $15.00 


index 








{ 
} 
| 
| 
} 
' 
} 
} 
' 
' 
' 
, 













NAME 


COMPANY 


ADDRESS 


city 


CUSTOMER copes 


STATE zip 


order form 


© Add 8.259% in NY State 








FOUR EASY WAYS TO ORDER! 








‘Special shipping availabe; please inquire, 
Your customer cade appears above your 


name on the mailing label on the back cover. 





NAME 
COMPANY 
ADDRESS 


city 


HOW TO ORDER 


‘You can order direct from our distri- 
bution center by mail, fax, or on-line, 
twenty-four hours a day, seven days a 
‘week. Or phone our toll-free order 
line Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 
10 pam, and Saturday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
EST, Use this convenient order form, 
to prepare your order, then call toll- 
free 800-446-2001 or fax 914-591-6481. 
‘Our staff knows these products well, 
‘and will be glad to help you. Please 
be sure to have your eredit card and 
shipping information ready, Inter- 
national customers: please call 914- 
591-5500. On-line customers: send 
your order to ORDERS@ 
SSIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM. 


STATE 2rP 


EASY PAYMENT OPTIONS 


‘Voyager accepts payment by check, 
money order, Vis, MasterCard, 
American Express, or COD. Credit 
card orders wil be billed only for 
items shipped. For COD orders, 
please add $4.50 (sorry, no next day 
delivery on CODs). To order by mail, 
please send check or money order in 
US funds payable to Voyager, 

Voyager Order Department 

‘One Bridge Steet 

Arvington, NY 10533 


CREDIT CARD NO. 


EXP, DATE 


DAYTIME PHONE 


NIGHTTIME PHONE 


FAST DELIVERY 
‘Voyager wants you to enjoy your new 
purchase immediately, so we'll ship 
your order by air for our regular $5 
shipping charge. All in-stock items 
will be shipped within twenty-four 
hours via Airborne Express for 
delivery by 5 pam. the following 
business day*, Federal Express, UPS, 
or Saturday delivery are available on 
request; cal for details, Alaska, 
avail, please add $15,00, APO and 
FPO will ship US Postal Service at 
the prevailing rate. COD orders will 
ship UPS Ground unless otherwise 
arranged. 

‘some restrictions apply. (Inter: 
national customers call for details) 


GREAT CUSTOMER SERVICE 


‘Our customer service staf is on hand 
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 10 
pam. EST, and Saturday, 10 am. to 4 
pam. EST, to answer any questions. 


Please help us not to be wasteful. 
If you get more than one copy of our 
catalog, please send us all of the mail- 
ing labels, indicating which one is 
correct. Pass the extra catalog along, 
toa friend, 

‘Voyager will do its best to honor 
published prices, but over time prices. 
may change. 


ONE BRIDGE STREET, IRVINGTON, NY 10533 Ww 


MAIL 


ORDERS @3SIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 


E-MAIL 


FAX: 1-914-591-6481 


1-800-446-2001 


PHONE 










Just before we went to press, the iconoclastic British 
television writer Dennis Potter (The Singing 

Detective, Pennies from Heaven) died. A news story 
quoted his credo, which we think perfectly positions 
BSIXTY relative to other software catalogs: 











We realized we didn’t 
know which CD-ROMs 
were worth buying, 


v 


and we figured people 
must be having the same |__| 


problem with our stuff. 
listen to new music preview SaaS on 
on the radio, Siskel & Ebert— 


but there was no way 
to check out CD-ROMS [—>| No buzz, even. 
in advance. 





We had a problem. 


































—— 
browse books in 
the bookstore, 
























How could we shop 
with confidence? 





It’s a critical review of the} 
CD-ROMS we like best. 










3S/XTY is our solution, 
at least until on-line 
browsing is possible. 


but the best programs 
—w| from other publishers 
are in here too. 


Y 


Nowhere do we use 


Most of the products 
are Voyager's, 

















It's the first software 
catalog that’s hard on 
your mind and easy on 



































your eyes instead of the And we've tried hard ice-cream flavors 
| other way around. to steer clear 
H Das — or the names of 
{ of unhelpful adjectives obscure desert plants 
y like “multimedia. to describe colors. 
If you aren't v 
completely satisfied We're honest about 
with any purchase, «——————————___ products’ strengths 
you get your and weaknesses. 
money back in full. 


























‘ We'll only ask So we can do better 
one question: why? next time. 


Feedback, please. )« 


LL ____»| 

















Send E-mail to ORDERS@3SIXTY.VOYAGERCO.COM 











write to Voyager, One Bridge Street, Irvington, NY 10533 





Enter the contests, 












































and win software. 
phone us at 1-800-446-2001 
' or fax us at 1-914-591-6481 
The more we know 
about what you like with suggestions, 
and want, the |} submissions, criticisms, 
better job we'll do stories, commentary. 
in future issues. 











@ 





ABOUT THE TECH, REQUIREMENTS 











If a program is available on the Macintosh platform, the product 
description contains an @. If it’s available on Windows, there is a I. 
We've also created a simple number/letter code describing the optimal 
hardware configuration required to run each title. You can find this in 
the index, which starts on page 48. For details on the code, see below. 
Questions? Call 1-800-446-2001. Ask us, We'll help you figure it out. 





TYPE 1 
Any Macintosh with a CD-ROM drive. 








TYPE? 





Any Macintosh with color display and a CD-ROM drive. 





GENERAL 





All products require a hard disk drive with up to 10 MB free space, 
and may require up to 2,200K of free RAM unless otherwise noted, 





KEY TO MODIFIERS 





a: May require up to 3,200K of free RAM. 

b; May require up to 6,200K of free RAM. 

c: Requires 640x480-resolution (13") or larger monitor. 

d; Requires speakers or headphones if CD-ROM drive is external. 





EXPANDED BOOKS (EB) 











All PowerBooks, and all Macintoshes with 13” monitors, 


technical specifications 


7 | 











386SX or higher proc 
640x480, 256-color display 

4 MB RAM (8 MB recommended) 

MPC-compatible CD-ROM drive and sound card with speakers or 
headphones 

Microsoft Windows 3.1, MS-DOS 5.0 or later 














TYPE? 





486SX-25 or higher processor 
640x480, 256-color display (accelerator recommended) 

4 MB RAM (8 MB recommended) 

MPC2-compatible CD-ROM drive and sound card with speakers 
or headphones 

Microsoft Windows 3.1, MS-DOS 5.0 or later 





EXPANDED BOOKS (EB) 











386SX or higher processor 
640x480, 16 color/grayscale display 

4 MB RAM 

Microsoft Windows 3.1, MS-DOS 5.0 or later 

Books with audio annotations (marked with an asterisk) require 
an MPC-compatible sound card with speakers or headphones. 


COPY BY ASHTON APPLE! RSIGN BY ALEXANDER ISLEY DE: 
SSSIXTY* TITLE BY MARK GOZONSKY AND JOHN BARTH / 





N, NEW YORK 
DSITE FIELD 














Win $500 
toward a 

3SIXTY 
purchase! 


A CONTE 


NAME THAT 
VERB 
AND WIN! 


What do you do 
with—or to—a 
CD-ROM? Do you 
play it? Play with 
it? Read it? Do it 
to it? Or does it do 
it to you? There's 
no word around 
that describes the 
experience of 
interacting (ugh) 
with a CD-ROM. 
Our modern lexi- 
con needs help! 
We need anew 
verb, maybe one 
that hasn't been 
invented yet. 

Send your sub- 
mission to Voyager, 
One Bridge Street, 
Irvington, NY 
10533. 

Best entry wins 
$500 worth of 
Voyager software. 

It’s too late to 
start Microsoft, 
but you can still 
invent a word that 
will be slang on 
the Internet 
within weeks and 
that Time 
will discover by 
the end of the 
millennium. 








“I bought a CD-ROM drive just to play “Very very 
A Hard Day's Night. It’s great. good. Wow— 
Fantastic. Wonderful. Any questions?” Amazing— 


—Paul Nixon, Abilene, TX see page Keep it up.” 
“EXCELLENT! Never thought I'd see —A. P. Ryason, 
someting like this until after 2000 AD! Mill Valley, CA 
—Andrew H. Snyder, Edison, NJ see page 


see page(35) “Congratulations for this gigantic work, where technology meets humanities. 
It has been so far the best demonstration of such an interaction... Thank you.” 
—Anna da Soledade Vieira, Professor, UFMG-Escola de Biblioteconomia, Belo Horizonte-MG, Brazil 


“There's so much to see and see page( “This is “A new dimension 
hear and it’s so easy to do! my favorite CD. for baseball fans! 
Our two-year-old loves it (and My friends andI see page Gs) For someone 
so do his older brothers).” see page (9) are freaking out!” who enjoys the his- 
—Judy Schatz, Elkins Park, PA —Rod Williams, torical perspective 

Phoenix, AZ of the game, this is 
“This was the first time I saw music and pictures “a i ie 

™ a a —Brad Heath, 

together on a Mac, and in a daring way. It got me inter- Tong Beach, CA 


ested in the medium.”—Renee Recker, New York, NY sce page(26) 

see page “Now I can travel with a library—which doesn't weigh 
anything—and never get caught without something to read.” 
—Peter Carpenter, Palo Alto, CA. 























. > 2g 
ne 2G & 2 Gi x an 
= eS eS ay Gh OQ eS Zz 
SS lok = Se. ae eg Ie oF SE: aZe« 
A 2a 2 eo 2 eS S 2 pte tea ke S26 
m aS ES mt Jae . - 
“ % 25 2 Se tee Ss eee Za 
x ae Le te ot BR = oS 2 8 8 2.55.5 ~ oO 
3 ze > ae ac, 
: rR as&ae Za 8 
=3 
Pe 
= 
hi g4 
weer 
O 
$ % 
S$ 3 
oa ® 
S > 
A & 
0 za 
2 gx 
a a Ee 
= i, ie 
s = ¢ 
% 
* 
v 
23 So 
Z20nt 
zaBan 
3 
aa 3 














