41 Projects 
using 
741 OP Amp 


M.C. Sharma, M.Se. 


- Publishers : 


BPB PUBLICATIONS 


B-14, CONNAUGHT PLACE, NEW DELHI-110 001 


© BPB PUBLICATIONS, New Delhi 


FIRST EDITION-1982 
REPRINTED — 1992 


Distributors: 


BPB BOOK CENTRE 
376, Old Lajpat Rai Market, Delhi-110 006 


BUSINESS PROMOTION BUREAU 

8/1, Ritchie Street, Mount Road, Madras—600 002 
BUSINESS PROMOTION BUREAU 

4-3-268-C, Giriraj Lane, Bank Street, Hyderabad—S00 195 


COMPUTER BOOK CENTRE 
12, Shrungar Complex, M. G. Road, Bangalore-560 001 


Notice 


All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
stored in a_ retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by 
any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or 
_ otherwise, without the written permission of BPB Publications. 

Although every care has been taken with the production of this 
book to ensure that any projects, designs contained herewith, 
operate in a correct and safe manner, but the Publishers and 
Author do not accept any responsibility in any way for the failure, 
including fault in design, of any project/circuit diagrams. 


Published by Manish Jain for BPB Publications, B-14, Connaught Place, 
New Delhi and Printed by him at Goyal Offset Printers, Delhi. 


a 


PREFACE 


The Operational Amplifier IC741 is perhaps one of the most_ 
inexpensive IC available in the market. Yet it is comparable to the 
best of such IC’s in respect of versatility and superb performance. It 
is, therefore, natural that there is hardly any electronic magazine in 
the world which does not contain a project using this IC. 

This book which is now in your hands contains 41 projects emp- 
loying this IC. You will find the electrical details of this IC in the book 
itself, which make them so versatile. 

These projects will provide the hobbyist, the experimenter and 
even the professional, practical experience in making these projects. 
In this connection, we would like to emphasise two aspects: firstly, — 
good soldering and the use of IC Sockets. It is not proposed to go into. 
the details of good soldering, but, please bear in mind badly-soldered 
joints will invariably disappoint you in the performance of the pro- 
ject, no matter how well the circuit is designed or how good are the 
individual components. 

Secondly, it is always a good practice to use an IC socket, wire it 
up and then insert the IC in the socket in the CORRECT way. 

At this stage, it will be appropriate to indicate that this IC741 is 
not capable of driving a loudspeaker directly. Its output is usually 
connected to an output amplifier stage. At times, however, this IC 
may be designed to actuate a pair of earphones. 

The author Mr. M.C: Sharma is not new to our readers. Sugges- 
tions for improvement will be gratefully received by him as well as 
ourselves. ) 


Publishers 


CONTENTS 


1. INTRODUCTION 
2. PRACTICAL PROJECTS 
3. POWER SUPPLIES 


. Inverting DC Amplifier 

. Non-Inverting DC Amplifier 

. Inverting AC Amplifier 

. Non-Inverting AC Amplifier 

. DC\Voltage Follower 

. AC'\Voltage Follower 

. Xtal Pickup Preamplifier 

. Magnetic Pickup Preamplifier 
. Magnetic Mike Preamplifier 
10. Guitar Preamplifier 

11. Telephone Pickup Preamplifier 
12. Mixer Amplifier 

L. Hate Control 
14. Signal Tracer 
31 Amplifier 
. Intercom 


COrAINNMNABWN 


. Pulse Generator 
23. Multitone Bell 


24. Electronic Siren , 
25. Monostable Multivibrator 
26. Bistable Multivibrator 
27. Trigger Pulse Generator 


. Flasher 

. Timer 

. Light Operated Relay 

. Power Failure Indicator 

. Touch Controller 

.. FM Tuning Indicator 

. Positive Reference Voltage 

. Negative Reference Voltage 
. Regulated Power Supply 

. DC Voltmeter 

. AC Millivoltmeter 

. Microampere Meter 

. Engine RPM Counter 

. Analog to Digital Converter 


aI 


INTRODUCTION 


An operational amplifier, often referred to as an Op Amp, is a 


very high gain high performance amplifier designed to amplify ac and 
dc signal voltages. Modern integrated circuit technology and large 


scale production. techniques have brought down the prices of such | 


amplifiers within reach of all amateurs, experimenters and hobbyists..: 


The Op Amp is now used as a basic gain element, like an elegant 
transistor, in electronic circuits. 


ot 
NX 
| ames ncie —-——-—~—~-—---- vt 
| 
aa 
| 
“i ! 
t | INVERTING 
INPUT 
| Ourpur 
| 
= (+) 
il | NON-/NVERTING 
B INPUT 
fis 
| 
“i pita i 
ta oes 
Be a i V 


Fig. 1. Symbol for an Operational Amplifier. 


A symbol used to represent an operational amplifier in schemat- 
ics is shown in Fig. 1. The operational amplifier has two inputs and 
only one output. One input is called the inverting input and is 
denoted by a minus sign. A signal applied to this input appears as an 
amplified but phase inverted signal at the output. The second input is 
called a non-inverting input and is denoted by a plus sign-#rsignal 


applied to this input appears at the output as an amplified signal 


which has the same phase as that of the input signal. 


af 


The availability of two input terminals simplifies feedback 
circuitry and makes the operational amplifier .a highly versatile de- 
vice. If a feedback is applied from the output to the inverting input 
terminal, the result is a negative feedback which gives a stable amp- 
. lifier with precisely controlled gain characteristics. On the other 
hand, if the feedback is applied to the non-inverting input, the result 
_ is positive feedback which gives oscillators and multivibrators. Spe- 
cial effects are obtained by combination of both types of feedbacks. 


TOP VIEW 


TOP VIEW TOP VIEW 


PIN 4CONNECTED TO CASE 


Fig. 2. Pin Configurations, for 741 Op Amp. 


Of the different types of operational amplifiers produced, type 
741 has achieved a very wide popularity. It is available in 14-pin dual- 
in-line, 8-pin dual-in-line or in TO-style packages. Pin configurations 
for all these packages are shown in F; v2. 


TOP VIEW 


TOP VIEW gt er 


Fig. 3. Pin Configurations, for Type 747 Dual Op Amp. 


Ki 


Integrated circuit type 747 accommodates two type 741 opera- 
tional amplifiers in a single package. Pin configurations for different © 
packages are shown in Fig.3. : 

The operational amplifier needs a dual symmetrical power supply 
with its centre tap grounded as shown in Fig. 1. This enables the 
operational amplifier to amplify dc signals of both polarity, positive 
or negative, with respect to ground. The circuit is so designed that if 
both inputs are connected to ground, the dc output voltage is zero. 
However, because of small internal unbalances, a small dc voltage - _ 
may appear at the output. It is too small to be objectionable in normal — 
applications. For critical applications, the output voltage can be set 
precisely to zero by connecting a 10k potentiometer between termi- 
nals marked “‘offset-null’” as shown in figures 4 and 5. ~ 

It is possible to operate the 741 on a single rail supply also. This is 
usually done by raising the standing dc input voltage to the non- 
inverting input terminal to approximately half the supply voltage-by 4 . 
voltage divider network, as done in figures 11, 12 etc. The output dc 
voltage in such cases stands at half the supply voltage. But this does: 
not matter because the dc can be easily blocked by a capacitor 
allowing only the ac signal to be passed on to the next stage. 

Operationa! amplifier type 741 has many features that have made. 
it so popular. It has a built-in circuitry that provides full protection 
against output overloads or even shorts to ground for any length of 
time. The 741 does not need any external component for phase 
compensation or adjusting its frequency response. This simplifies 
circuit design and minimises the number of components used. Its 
frequency response has a smooth roll-off at the high end which keeps 
the circuit fully stable in all feedback configurations. Important 
technical parameters of type 741 are given below: 


Parameter Min. Typ. Max. Units 
Supply Voltage aS + 18 Vv 

Supply Current 7 2.8 mA 
Input Bias Current 80 500 nA 
Input Resistance | 0.3 0 MQ 
Input Offset Voltage 2.0 6.0 mV 


Offset Voltage Adjustment — “ 
Range Fee ly bs" mV 


2 


PRACTICAL PROJECTS 


1. INVERTING DC AMPLIFIER 


INPUT Z 


a 
) 
a = 


INPUT GAIN rE 


Ourpur ae 


BANDWIDTH = 


5—9V 


Fig. 4. General Purpose Inverting DC Amplifier. 


A general purpose inverting type of dc amplifier operating ona 
dual symmetrical supply of + 9V is shown in Fig. 4. The input sigma ig 
applied to the inverting input terminal of the 741 and the ou en 
signal is therefore, phase inverted. The amplifier gain is decided b 
the ratio of the feedback resistors R1 and R2. The standing dc ou ‘tnd 
voltage can be set exactly to zero by R4. The maximum output 
voltage swing is about + 7 volts. 


6 
2. NON-INVERTING DC AMPLIFIER. 


Re 
100K 


INPUT Z - mm 


= 1+— 
GAIN | ear 


e 
OUTPUT 


wut R3 BANDWIDTH = -aqin 


Fig. 5. General Purpose Non-inverting DC Amplifier. 


A general purpose non-inverting type of dc amplifier operating 
on a dual symmetrical supply of +9V is shown in Fig. 5. As befor. 
the gain of the amplifier is decided by the feedback resistors Ri and 
R2. Since the input signal is applied to the non-inverting input 


terminal of the 741, the output signal has the same phase as that of the | 


input signal. The input impedance in this case is high but the signal 
source must provide a dc ground path for the input bias current. “he 
standing output voltage can be set exactly to zero by R3. The outpu- 
voltage swing is limited to,approximately + 7 volts. 


\ 


3. INVERTING AC AMPLIFIER 


R2 
™1M 


INPUT Z = R1 


GAIN jeer pall dat 
oureur = 30 


| BANDWIDTH = 50HZ 


Fig. 6. General Purpose Inverting AC Amplifier. 


a 


0 


7 


Fig. 6 shows a general purpose inverting type of ac amplifier. As 
the input signal is applied to the inverting input terminal, the output 
signal is phase inverted. The amplifier gain is decided by the ratio of 
the feedback components R1 and R2. The low-frequency roll-off is 
decided by C1. The amplifier gain falls by 3 dB at a frequency where 
the reactance of C1 becomes equal to R1. 

For direct coupling to the next stage, the standing dc can be set 
exactly to zero by Ré. For ac coupling via a | capacitor, R4 can be 
omitted. 


4. NON-INVERTING AC AMPLIFIER 


R2- 

330K 
INPUT Z = ADOK 
R2. 
al | —_—— 
GAIN + R4 
OUTPUT fai 34 
INPUT BANDWIDTH = 15HZ 
| to 30KHz 


Fig. 7. General Purpose Non-inverting AC Amplifier. 


A general purpose non-inverting type of ac amplifier is shown in 
Fig. 7. The input signal is applied to the plus input of 741 and the 
output therefore, has the same phase as that of the input signal. 
Amplifier gain can be set to any value by choosing R1 and R2 but; the 
higher the gain, the lower will be bandwidth of the amplifier. R3 ‘ ~ 
provides a dc ground path to the bias current. The gain falls by 3 dB at’ 
a frequency where reactance of C1 equals R3. R4 may be omitted if 
the amplifier output is to be coupled to the next stage through a 
capacitor. 


5. DC VOLTAGEFOLLOWER 


INPUT 7) :-SNERCRIGH 


OuTPUT Z < 1 0HM 


3B 
Our pur 


ie GAIN A | 
INPUT 
Fig. 8. Unity Gain DC Voltage Follower. 4 


A direct coupled unity gain voltage follower is shown in Fig. 8. 
The circuit is useful for impedance transformation. Because of , 
hundred per cent negative feedback., the input impedance is very « 
high, and thé output impedance is very low. The frequency response 
extends up to 1 MHz. The signal input source must provide a direct 
path to ground of less than 100k ohms for input bias current. The 
circuit can deliver load current up to 10 milliamperes. _ 


6. AC VOLTAGE FOLLOWER 


Fig. 9. AC Coupled Voltage Follower. 5 


An ac coupled unity gain voltage follower operating on a single 
_ Supply is shown in Fig. 9. Voltage divider network of R1 and R2 


9 ’ 
provides a dc voltage equal to half the supply voltage to the non- 
inverting input of the 741. The output dc voltage therefore stands at 
half the supply voltage. The output signal swings above and below 
this value. The standing dc voltage at pin 6 does not matter because 
the output is coupled to the next stage via a capacitor. 

The input impedance is equal to the value of R1 and R2 in 
parallel, i.e. 500k ohms in this case. Because of hundred per cent 
negative feedback, the output impedance is very low. For low fre- | 
quency applications C1 and C2 can be replaced by electrolytic, 
capacitors of large values. 


7. XTAL PICKUP PREAMPLIFIER 


OUTPUT 


| 


Fig. 10. Preamplifier for a Crystal Pickup. 


A preamplifier operating on a single supply and suitable for use. 
with high impedance type crystal pickups is shown in Fig. 10. The 
circuit is basically a non-inverting ac amplifier (see Fig. 7) in which 
the gain is dependent on the feed back resistor R4. The smaller is the 
R4, the lower will be the gain. The low-frequency roll-off 
characteristics are decided by C3. 4 

Voltage divider network comprising of R1, R2 and RS provide a> 
dc bias of about half the supply voltage to the non-inverting input of 
741. The dc output at pin 6 therefore stands at half the supply voltage. 


10 


R5 and C2 form a supply line filter to reduce the hum level as well as 
to reduce the chances of motorboating when the preamplifier is 
operated on a common power supply. 


8. MAGNETIC PICKUP PREAMPLIFIER 


Fig. 11. Preamplifier for Magnetic Pickup. 


A preamplifier for magnetic pickups of record players is shown in 
Fig. 11. The 741 is used as an ac coupled non-inverting amplifier 
operating on a single supply. The amplifier gain is decided by the 
feedback components in which C2 controls the low frequency roll- 
off characteristics while C4 reduces the gain at high frequency end to 
compensate for the pickup characteristics. R3, R4 and R5 form a 
voltage divider to give a bias of about half the supply voltage to the 
‘non-inverting input of 741. The output at pin 6 therefore stands at 1 
half the supply voltage. R5 and C3 form a supply line filter to reduce — 
the hum level and also to eliminate motorboating in case the preamp- 
lifier is operated on a common supply with other circuits. 


i 
9. MAGNETIC MIKE PREAMPLIFIER 


e 
OUTPUT 


INPUT 


| 


Fig. 12. Preamplifier for Magnetic Micropnone. 


Fig. 12 shows a preamplifier operating on a single supply and 
suitable for magnetic microphones. The circuit operation is vezy 
similar to that of Fig. 11. The output can be ac coupled-to the next 
stage via a capacitor. 


10. GUITAR PREAMPLIFIER 


R4 
10K 


T° ‘ye a to 30V 


C4 

~033 pF SW 1 if 
RS 
47K Los cé6 


SOOPf 


Ott *Oint 
ce C3 ; wong pe 
a O-33yF OUTPUT 


2°R6 

72.5 
he ay va 
68.20. 


Fig. 15. Preamplifier for Electric Guitar. 


12 


—A preamplifier suitable for use with high impedance type electric 
guitar pickups is shown in Fig. 13. The circuit is basically similar in 
operation to those shown in figures 10 and 11. Potentiometer R6 
forms the tone control. Switch Sw1 is used to: produce ‘brilliant’ or 
‘soft’ tonal effects. 


11. TELEPHONE PICKUP PREAMPLIFIER 


C2” ae 7 
100uF C1 
# he Oot AF 


TELEPHONE 
PICK-UP. COIL 
> 2000 to 


a turns 


Fig. 14. Preamplifier forTelephone Pickup. 


EAR PHONE 
300 NM 


Ifa high impedance coil with open magnetic core is placed near a 
~ telephone instrument or near one of the telephone wires, it picks up 
inductively both sides of telephonic conversation without any electri- 
cal contact. A preamplifier suitable for amplifying tiny signals picked 
up by the coil is shown in Fig. 14. The circuit is basically an inverting 
amplifier similar in operation to figure 6. Variable resistor R4 sets the 
gain and the circuit delivers sufficient output to drive an earphone 
directly. 


13 


12. MIXER AMPLIFIER | 


C1 R1 R4 
0.22 47K 1.8K 


ea is | +91024V © 
0 0.52 47K sy bee 
Sacer ‘ 
é ose par | 
-22 C5 
—30-——-] 
Opr E out 
OUTPUT 
10 WF ; 
3 ei eo Ces 


Fig. 15. A Mixer Amplifier. 


An operational amplifier works as a highly efficient device for 
mixing a number of input signals without any interaction. In Fig. 15 
the 741 is used as an inverting amplifier and the input signals are 
applied to the inverting input through individual weightage resis- 
tors R1, R2 and R3. These can be variable resistors to adjust the pro- 
portion of each input signal in the final output. The overall circuit 
gain is set by R7. Divider network R4, R5 and R6 provide a de bias to 
the non-inverting input equal to half the supply voltage to enable 
operation ona single supply. Bypass capacitor C4 reduces supply line 
noise and hum. 


13. TONE CONTROL 


gTREBLE 


C4 es Co 
003 HF 00K -003 HF 


Fig. 16. Independent Bass and Treble Controls. 


4 


_ A, preamplifier circuit providing independent Bass and Treble 
tone controls is shown in Fig. 16: The circuit is basically an inverting 
type amplifier operating on a single supply. The tone control network | 
is inserted in the negative feedback path. It provides about 15dB of 
Bass and Treble cut and boost with respect to the gain at the mid- 
frequency of 1000 Hz. The output can be either ac or dc coupled to 


the next stage. 


14, SIGNAL TRACER 


; : 0+ 6to9V 
R5 
iM 


WIEUT. 
oO 
W 


Fig. 17. Signal Tracer. 


| 


| Achigh gain amplifier operating on a battery pack of 6 or 9 volts 
and suitable. for use as a signal tracer is shown in Fig. 17. The 741 is 
used as a high gain non-inverting amplifier and its output is amplified 
by a.complementary pair T1 and T2 to drive a loudspeaker. An 
overall negative feedback from the common emitter junction of T1 
and T2 stabilises the amplifier dc voltages and its gain. The audio 
output is enoughto serve as a signal tracer. A diode input probe at the 
input will convert this audio signal tracer into an rf signal tracer. 


15. 3W AMPLIFIER 


TREBLE 


Fig. 18.3 Watt Audio Amplifier. 


A general purpose 3 watt audio amplifier operating on a single © 
supply of 12 volts is shown in Fig. 18. The first 741 is used as a tone © 
control circuit (see Fig. 16) and is directly coupled to the next 741. 
DC bias for the non-inverting input terminals of both operational 

_ amplifiers is provided by R7 and R8. The output of second 741 is 
amplified by complementary transistor pair T1 and T2. The fre- _ 
quency response extends to 30 kHz and the circuit needs an input — 
signal of about 0.5 volts for full power one. 


16. INTERCOM ( 


IGROUND FIRST 
FLOOR |FLOOR 


1 fe 
SWITCHES 


Fig. 19. Two positiah Intercom. 


16 


__An intercom circuit operating on a dual symmetrical mains 
operated power supply is shown in Fig. 19. The figure shows only two 
positions but any number can be added in a similar manner. 

In this circuit, the speakers serve as microphones also. The first 
741 is used as a microphone preamplifier and the second 741 with T1 
and T2 form a power amplifier similar to those shown in figures 17 
and 18. A bridge rectifier and filter capacitors C3 and C4 provide the 
‘dual symmetrical supply. Resistors R1 and R2 serve. as individual 
volume controls. 


17. 12 W AMPLIFIER 


Fig. 20. A 12 Watt Amplifier. 


Fig. 20 snuws a 12 watt audio amplifier operating on a dual 
symmetricaisupply of + 12 volts. The 741 provides the required gain 
while the speaker drive is provided by the complementary Darling- 
tons T1, T2 aud T3, T4. 

_ The inpuvsignals for the Darlingtons are derived from the supply 
current of tha.741. Since R6 is connected to the. ground, the positive 
oy negative sijinal currents also pass through R4 or R5. The voltage 

rop across these resistors serves as the input signal to the transistor 
pairs. An overall de negative feedback. from the common collector 
junction of T2 and T4 stabilises the-wy conditions of the circuit and 
keeps the junction point at zero vane Hence, no coupling capacitor is 
required for the speaker. 


tT 
18. DC MOTOR CONTROL 


Fig. 21. DC Motor Control. 


Fig. 21 shows a circuit for continuous remote control of speed and 
direction of rotation of a dc motor. Such a circuit is suitable for 
antenna rotators and similar applications. 

Basically, the circuit is a dc amplifier (see Figs. 4 and 5) followed 
by a direct coupled power amplifier comprising of transistor pairs T1, 
T3 and 12, T4. ‘Resistor R7 sets the system sensitivity and 
potentiometers R2 and R3 control the speed and direction of 
rotation. a 


19. AC MOTOR CONTROL 


+24V 


2 Our ~) 
40 V 
T2 
N 6107 
OV 
O) 


Fig. 22. Speed Control of AC Motor. 


18 


The speed of an ac motor depends on the frequency of supply 
voltage. Hence, within limits, the speed of an ac motor can be 
controlled by varying the frequency. Fig. 22 shows a circuit which can 
control the speed of a small 10 volt ac motor by varying the supply 
frequency from 30 Hz to 120 Hz. | 

The first 741 is used as a square wave generator-(see Fig. 24) 
whose frequency can be varied by R1. The second 741 is used as an 
integrator. Because of heavy capacitive negative feedback, this stage 
converts the square waves into triangular waveforms which is almost 
as suitable as a sine wave for driving the motor. Complementary 
transistor pair T1 and T2 provides the required drive to the motor. 
The circuit operates on a single power supply. 


20. SCHMITT TRIGGER 


+9OV.to 36V 


Fig. 23. A Schmitt Trigger. 


. A Schmitt trigger circuit shows two distinct signal input levels for 
‘turning the circuit ‘on’ and ‘off’. The difference between the Von and 
Voff voltages is called ‘hysteresis’. Schmitt triggers are useful in 
converting slowly rising waveforms into fast rising ones and in relay 
like applications. 


19 


The circuit shown in Fig. 23 uses a 741 with positive feedback via 
R5, R6 and R7 for fast switching. Voltage dividers R8 and R9 set the 
dc input voltage to the non-inverting input terminal to half the supply 
voltage. The amount of positive feedback depends on the ratio of R6 
and R7. The larger the ratio, the smaller will be the hysteresis shown 
by the circuit. Potentiometer R2 sets the dc voltage to the inverting 
input terminal and thus sets the threshold voltage at which the signal 
will trigger the circuit. The input signal can be applied to either of the 

two input terminals. 


21. SQUARE WAVE GENERATOR / 


FREQUENCY 
MAX 


1 Hz 25 Hz }' 


O.tpF | 10Hz | 250Hz 
0.01 pF 12,5 KHz 


Fig. 24. Wide Range Square Wave Generator. 


A wide range square wave generator using a 741 is shown in Fig. 
24. The circuit uses positive feedback for Schmitt trigger action ana 
negative feedback for timing of the waveform. | 
Let us presume that the output is high and the capacitor C1 is 
completely discharged. C1 now starts charging via R2 and R1. When 
the voltage across C1 rises above that at the junction of R3 and R4. 
the output quickly switches to fully negative voltage. C1 now starts 
discharging and charges in the opposite direction. Again, when the 
negative voltage across C1 falls below that at pin 3, the circuit 
switches back quickly to the fully positive output value. The cycle. 
repeats endlessly. The table in the figure gives the relationship bet- 
ween the values of C1 and the frequency ranges covered. The fre- 


20 


quency range can be changed by altering the ratio of R3 and R4. 
Since the capacitor C1 charges and discharges through sc same 
resistors, the output is a symmetrical square wave. 


22. PULSE GENERATOR. 


100K ovreur 


10K 


Fig. 25. A Wide Range Pulse Generator. 


The wide range pulse generator shown in Fig. 25 is similar in 
operation to the square wave generator of Fig. 24 except that the 
charge and discharge paths of C1 have been separated by diodes D1 
and D2. C1 therefore charges through D1, R2 and R1 and discharges 
through R1, R3 and D2. The period for which the output is ‘high’ or 
‘low’ can now be controlled independently by R2 and R3. Thus the 
pulse width and the time interval between the pulses can be control- 
led to produce pulses of any duty ratio and repetition rate by choosing 
C1 correctly and adjusting R2 and R3 properly. 


23. MULTITONE BELL 


A multitone call bell saves up and down trips by distinguishing 
between calls made from the front door or back door or a side 
entrance. A three-tone circuit using a 741 is shown in Fig. 26. 


21 


Fig. 26. Multitone Bell. 


The circuit is basically a square wave generator (see Fig. 24) in 
which the three resistors R1, R2 and R3 produce different tones 
when any of the three call buttons is pressed. The output of 741 is 
amplified by acomplementary transistor pair T1 and T2 to give aloud 
tone in the speaker. 


24. ELECTRONIC SIREN 


+12V 
C37 | Son. 
R10 
6 1K 


1 
2N1481 


Fig. 27. Electronic Siren. 


22 


Another application of the square wave generator (see Fig. 24) is 
the electronic siren shown in Fig. 27. The first 741 is a low frequency 
multivibrator, the output of which modulates the high frequency tone 
produced by the second 741 multivibrator. The final output is amp- 
lified and converted into a loud siren sound by T1 and the 
loudspeaker. 

Different and interesting tones can be obtained by changing the 
frequency determining components viz C1, R2, C2 and R6. For 
example if the value of C1 is made large, the siren will be turned on 
and off periodically. a) 


25. MONQSTABLE MULTIVIBRATOR 


o+5 to 15V 


" Fig. 28. A Monostable Multivibrator. 


The output of a monostable multivibrator, when triggered once/ 
remains high for a predetermined period and then falls back to its 
normal value. Such circuits are useful in timing applications. 

A monostable multivibrator using a 741 and operating/on a dual 
symmetrical power supply is shown in Fig. 28. Normally; R1 keeps 
the dc voltage at pin 2 higher than that on pin 3 and hence, the output 
at pin 4 stands at its fully negative value. A sharp negative going pulse 
at the input terminal lowers the voltage at pin 2 to a value below that 
at pin 3. The output therefore, quickly goes fully positive and 
capacitor C2 starts charging through R2. The voltage developed 
across R2 by the charging current maintains the output to its high 
value. When C2 has fully charged, the charging current drops and the 
circuit quickly returnsto its normal position, ready to be triggered by 
the next input, pulsé. Zhe periods for different values of C2 and R2 
are shown in theable. | 


/ 


| 23 
26. BISTARLE MULTIVIBRATOR 


Om | 
005 pF 


o————|}—p—— 
WM PUT=4 


M) peel ee 
Ret ein oh ee 
INPUT =2 


+9 to15V 


OUTPUT 


Fig. 29. A Bistable Multivibrator. 


A bistable multivibrator using a 741 is shown in Fig. 29. The 
output in this case remains latched to its previous position, high 
(output fully positive) or low (output fully negative) till the state is 
changed by a trigger pulse. | 

The latching action is obtained by a small amount of positive 
feedback provided by R2 and R3. A negative trigger pulse at input-1 
OF a positive pulse at input-2 will change the output from low to high. 
Similarly, a positive pulse at input-1 or a negative pulse at input-2 will 
change the output state from high to low. The circuit output will 
remain latched in that position till the next pulse of the proper 
polarity is applied. Such circuits are useful in control applications. 


27. TRIGGER PULSE GENERATOR 


+9 to 15V 


R7 Dt greg oe 
Puls 
AK co SD 40 ulse 


ae] 


OUTPUT 


RO Pulse 


CA 
Ov25 HE 


fF Pulsewidth = 1 py Sec. 
C2 = (O01 uF Pulsewidth = 1 } eee. 


Fig. 30. Positive and Negative Pulse Generator. 


24 


The monostable and the bistable multivibrators require sharp 
pulses for their triggering. A circuit that provides sharp positive or 
negative going pulses repetitively is shown in Fig. 30. 

The 741 is used as a square wave generator (see Fig. 24) whose 
frequency is controlled by R1. The output of 741 is directly coupled to 
T1 via RS and a zener diode. The output at the collector is differenti- 
ated by C2, D1 and R9 to give a positive going pulse; and by C2, D2 
and R8 to give a negative going pulse. The output pulses can be used 
to trigger multivibrators either directly or through coupling 
capacitors. . 


28. FLASHER 


TRANSISTORS a 
ON HEAT SINKS 


Fig. 31. Electronic Flasher. 


In the electronic flasher shown in Fig. 31, the 741 is used as a 
Square wave generator (see Fig. 24) operating on a single supply. 
Resistor R4 sets the flashing rate. If an LED is connected to the 
output as shown in the figure, the circuit becomes a tiny flasher. For 
making a high power flasher, omit R6 and the LED and connect 
‘transistors T! and T2 in a compound emitter follower configuration. 
T2 provides sufficient drive to the lamp. For flashing 230 volts lamps, 
replace the lamp in the emitter circuit of T2 by a relay and a diode 
combination as shown in Fig. 32. | 


29 
29. TIMER 


01 
IN 4001 


Fig. 32. Electronic Timer. 


In the timer circuit of Fig. 32, the 741 is used as a voltage’ 
comparator. The supply to the 741 is applied either through the 
START switch or through the K1 contacts of a DPDT relay. A 
momentary touch on the START switch applies power to the 741. At — 
this time, the input voltage at pin 2 is zero because C1 is completely 
discharged, and the voltage at pin 3 is about 2/3 of the supply voltage. 
The output of 741 is therefore fully positive and the relay latches. ’ 
Capacitor C1 now charges slowly through R1 and R2. When the 
voltage across C1 exceeds that at pin 3, the output of 741 goes to 
almost zero and the relay is de-energised. This interrupts the supply 
line and Ci quickly discharges through D1 and T1. The circuit is now 
ready for next timing cycle. The stand-by power consumption of the 
circuit is zero and hence, the arrangement is suitable for battery © 
operation. 


30. LIGHT OPERATED RELAY 


The light operated circuit shown in Fig. 33 will switch off a relay 
when the light falling on the LDR (Light Dependent Resistor) falls 
below a certain ne be aneaee it can be used as an obstacle alarm. 


the relay is open. When the light intensity increases above a certain 
value, the voltage at pin 2 falls below that at pin 3 and, because of 


26 


+9to24v 


R 1 
FQUALTOLOR 
4T NORMAL 
LIGHT LEVEL 


Fig. 33. Light Operated Relay. 


positive feedback, the output quickly rises to fully positive value. 
This energises the relay. ‘The positive feedback viaeR5 introduces a 
Schmitt trigger action (see Fig. 23) and the consequent hysteresis 
eliminates the relay chatter. The diode in parallel with the relay 
protects the transistor from high voltages induced in the relay coil 
during switch off. The dotted lines show the connections for a latch- 
ing action, if required. In that case, the circuit can be de-energised by 
interrupting the supply line momentarily. 


31. POWER FAILURE INDICATOR 


<~ wee) + 
§ tolev 
01 
' 3AN4001 
RESET 
is oe - R1 \ 
4 100K 
2 
} NK 
OV 


Fig. 34. Power Failure Indicator. 


27 


Many circuits, especially digital systems must have a continuous 
power supply to ensure correct operation. For example, a digital 
clock owner must know that the clock has to be reset to correct time. 
The circuit in Fig. 34 indicates power failure by a glowing LED. 

When the supply is switched on, the voltage at pin 2 of 741 is 0.6 
volts lower than the.supply voltage. Pressing the reset button makes 
pin 3 voltage higher than that at pin 2 and the output swings high. 
Positive feedback via R2 makes the circuit latch in this state. The 
LED is therefore not lit. 

When the supply is interrupted all voltages fall to zero. Upon 
restoration of the supply the inverting input is immediately pulled up 
to its previous voltage via Di. However, C1 being uncharged, holds 
the voltage at the non-inverting input low. The output of 741 there- 
fore swings low thereby lighting the LED. The circuit stays in this 
state till the reset button is pressed again. 


32. TOUCH CONTROLLER 


SERS at nanaeee Oo + 
i 6 to 24V 
R2 Po 
100K 2MF MVLAR 
TOUCH eile 
PLATES aie 2 i 
UE, 


™ 2 a ir ag 


R4 
ge Ae ‘ 
2N1481 
SIGNAL 
; OUT 
1W 


Fig. 35. Touch Controller. 


The simple touch controller shown in Fig. 35 gives a de output 
voltage which can be varied by touching two pairs of touch contacts. 
It may be used to drive a variety of voltage-controlled circuits such as 
voltage-controlled oscillators, voltage-controlled attenuators and. 
amplifiers. : | 


28 


The 741 is used as an inverting integrator. The non-inverting input 
is held at half the supply voltage by R2 and R3. The output voltage 
therefore stands at half the supply voltage. If the lower pair of touch 
contacts is bridged by a finger, the voltage at pin 2 of the IC falls. The 
integrating action of the IC tries to keep this voltage equal to that at 
pin 3. Hence, the output voltage rises and the charging current 
through C1 and R1 tries to keep the voltages at pins 2 and 3 equal. A 
similar action in the opposite direction takes place when the upper 
pair of contacts is bridged by a finger. The net effect is that the output 
voltage can be controlled by the touch on the two pairs of contacts. 
An example to use the output voltage for making a voltage controlled 
attenuator using a lamp and an LDR is also shown in the figure. Due 
to input bias current of 741 the output voltage will tend to drift with 
time. For long term stability, replace 741 with a FET input op-amp 
like $356C. | 


~33. FM TUNING INDICATOR 


Re 
330K 


SENSITIVITY 


_ Fig. 36. FM Tuning Indicator. 


Fig. 36 shows a circuit that can replace a centre-zero tuning 
indicator meter in an FM receiver. The input terminals can be con- 
nected directly in place of the meter. The indication sensitivity is set 
by R2. Correct tuning is indicated when both the LED’s are off. 


34. POSITIVE REFERENCE VOLTAGE 


Fig. 37 shows a variable positive voltage refefence\supply. The 
reference voltage can be set to precise values by R2. 


‘> 


36. REGULATED POWER SUPPLY 


OV, SOMz 
OUTPUT 


22 
O-=to- 15 Voits 1A 


SS 


REGULATED 


RB 
2.2K,1W 


Fig. 39. Voltage Regulated DC Power Supply. 


The voltage regulated power supply shown in Fig. 39 provides an 
adjustable voltage output at a load current up to 1A. The supply has a 
built-in overload protection. 

Rectifier diodes D1 and D2 along with filter capacitor C1 provide 
the main unregulated supply. D3, C2, R8 and a zener diode provide a 
negative voltage supply for the 741. The non-inverting input terminal 
of 741 is given a stable voltage by R3 which is the control to set the 
output. A fraction of the regulated output is fed back via R4 and RS to 
the inverting input terminal. The operational amplifier adjusts its 

output voltage so as to keep the voltage at the input terminals equal. 
Thus the output gets regulated. The output of 741 is amplified by a 
_ compound emitter follower T1 and T2. 
| All the load current flows through R6. If the load current exceeds 
1A, the voltage drop across R6 exceeds 0.6 volts and T3 ‘starts 
conducting. This bypasses the supply to T1 and T2 and the regulating 
action stops. The output voltage therefore starts falling when the load 
current exceeds 1A. Any of the output terminals can be grounded to 
get a positive or a negative voltage with respect to the ground. 


37. DC VOLTMETER 


. A high impedance dc voltmeter using a 741 is shown in Fig. 40. 
The operational amplifier is used as a non-inverting dc amplifier (see 


Full Scale 
R1 R2 
Voltage 


Fig. 40. High Impedance DC Voltmeter. 


Fig. 5) in which the negative feedback is through a dc meter requiring 
ImA for full scale deflection. Since R6 is 100 ohms, the meter will 
show full scale reading when the dc input voltage to pin 3 is equal to 
the voltage drop across R6, viz 0.1 volts. Choice of R1 and R2 for 
getting different voltage ranges are shown in the table. 

Diodes D1 and D2 protect the IC from accidental excessive input 
voltages and diodes D3 and D4 protect the meter from overloads. 


38. AC MILLIVOLTMETER 


TF 
PO Oe 


INPUT 
AC 


Fig. 41. AC Millivoltmeter. 


The ac millivoltmeter shown in Fig. 41 uses a 741 as an inverting 
amplifier. The negative feedback is through a bridge rectifier and R2. 
The operational amplifier Output overcomes the. barrier voltage of 


32 


the diodes and gives linear rectification characteristics. Choice of R1 
and R2 for getting different ranges are shown in the table. Calibra- 
- tion control R7 is set by applying known voltage at the input and 
adjusting R7 till the meter reads the correct voltage. 


39. MICROAMPERE METER 


Fig. 42. Microammeter. 


The microampere meter shown in Fig. 42 is basically a de mil- 
livoltmeter similar to that shown in Fig. 40. The circuit gives full scale 
deflection for 0.1V input. The current to be measured is passed 
through a known resistance 'R and the voltage drop across it is 
measured. The table in the figure shows the relationship between 
different values of R and the current that will give full scale 
deflection. . 


40. ENGINE RPM COUNTER 


The analog meter shown in Fig. 43 indicates the RPM ofan engine 
by deflection on a meter. The input signal is taken from the contact 
points of the engine. As the contacts make and break, the voltage 
~ across the contacts is converted into square waves by D1 and D2. 
Capacitor C1 differentiates these square waves and sharp pulses are 
applied to the inverting input of 741. Zener diodes D3 and D4 
provide a regulated supply to the IC as well as provide a mid point for 
giving half the supply voltage to the non-inverting input terminal. 
The 741, acting as a pulse stretcher, gives a pulse of fixed amplitude 


+ — 


IGHITION 
COIL Ve 


ee 


AUTO 
ENGINE 
CONTACTS 


Fig. 43. RPM Counter. 


and fixed duration for each input pulse. These pulses are rectified by 
D5 and D6 and the average current through the meter is directly 
proportional to the engine RPM. For some particular setting, the 
engine RPM are measured by a stroboscope and R6 is set till the 
meter reads the same RPM. 


41. ANALOG TO DIGITAL CONVERTER 


BC I77 GA 
: A 
res G 
BC 107 
K K 
UNIJUNCTION SYMBOL OF EQUIVALENT CIRCUIT OF 
TRANSISTOR PROGRAMMABLE PROGRAMMABLE 
UNIJUNCTION UNIJONCTION 
TRANSISTOR TRAN SISTCR 


Fig. 44. UJT, Symbol for Put and Put Equivalent. 


\ 


34 


The analog-to-digital converter shown in Fig. 45 gives a saw tooth 
output signal whose frequency is directly proportional to the 
magnitude of dc input voltage. As the circuit uses a PUT (Programm- 
able Unijunction Transistor), let us see how a PUT works. 

A unijunction transistor fires when the voltage V2 between its 
emitter and base two (see Fig. 44) is a certain fraction of the total 
supply voltage (V1+V2). This fraction is the characteristic of the 
UJT and is specified by the manufacturer. In a PUT this fraction can 
be altered and can be set to a desired value by application of a dc 
voltage to the gate of the PUT. The symbol for a PUT is shown in Fig. 
44. Two complementary transistors can also be connected in a re- 
generative nranner to give PUT like operation characteristics. 


INPUT | 
ne VAVAVA 


OUTPUT 
O 


Fig. 45. Analog to Digital Converter. 


In Fig. 45 the 741 is used as an integrator. When a negative dc 
input signal is applied to the inverting input via R1, the output 
voltage starts rising linearly and capacitor C2 starts charging. As soon 
as the voltage across the capacitor C2 reaches a certain value, the 
PUT fires, the output voltage at pin 6 falls to zero and the cycle starts 
again. The capacitor charging current is given by Vin/R1, therefore 
the frequency of the output signal is directly proportional to the input 
signal voltage. Potentiometer R8 is set to give a convenient multiplier 
say 100 or 1000 so that a digital counter directly indicates the input 
voltage. R4 is used to set the input signal threshold to reject noise etc. 


p 4s 


23 
POWER SUPPLIES 


In most of the applications, the operational amplifiers require a 
dual supply. The current drawn by a 741 under no load conditions is 
about 3 mA only and the simplest power supply for its operationisa | 
pack of two batteries connected as shown in Fig. 1. For mains 
operation different circuit configurations are given below: 


1414901 


230V, SOttz 


230V, SOHz 


Fig. 47. Full Wave Rectifier. 


36 


A simple half-wave rectifier giving a dual output is shown in Fig. 
46. A full-wave rectifier using a bridge connected as shown in Fig. 47 
gives lesser hum and better load and supply regulation. 


+ 


SE te ae cae #0 § 


FLOATING 
HHPUT 


Sa PSL TF 


(a) | (5) 
Fig. 48. Voltage Splitters. 


A floating supply can be split up in two voltages, positive and 
negative with respect to ground, as shown in Fig. 48a by a resistive 
divider. A much better arrangement consuming very little stand-by 
power is to use an operational amplifier as shown-in Fig. 48b. 


Fig. 49. Zener Regulated Dual Supply. 


For low current requirements a zener diode provides enough 
regulation economically. A dual supply using two zener diodes as 
regulators as well as splitters is shown in Fig. 49. A similar arrange- 
ment can be used to give a dual low current supply from a high voltage 
dc supply as shown in Fig. 50. 3 


10K, SW 10K, SW 1K, 1W 


+ToV 


Zener 


ISV,1W 


| 


InPuT 32,76 
300V ee a 
joke 350 V 


1S \/ 


Fig. 50. Op Amp, Supply from a High Voltage DC Source. 


0.2 2 pF 
4A00V 220 BY127 220 
+15V 


Zener: 


1SV,1W 


230V, SO0Hz 


O-15V 


Fig. 51. Op Amp. Supply from High Voltage AC Source. 


Fig 51 shows a transformerless dual low voltage power supply for 
operational amplifiers. A series capacitor is used as a voltage drop- 
ping device in place of a resistor. Such arrangements are good only — 


for low current requirements. 


DATA MANUALS-MISC 
” CMOS Data Book (4000 Series) 

1.C. Substitution Manual (Enlarged & Revised) 

international INTEGRATED CIRCUITS index 

MICROPROCESSOR Data Handbook 

Semicon's International TRANSISTOR Index 

The DIODE Manual 

Tower's International DIGITAL IC Selector 

Tower's International CP-AMP LINEAR IC Selector 

Tower's International TRANSISTOR Selector | 3 

The Japanese TRANSISTOR Substitution Handbook 

Up to Date Worid’s TRANSISTORS Diodes - Thyristors 
& IC’s Comparison Table (A _.. 

Up to Date World's TRANSISTORS - Diodes  Thyristors 
& IC’s Comparison Table (IN-60000 series; 

Up to Date World TRANSISTOR Comparison Tabie 


HOBBY ELECTRONICS 
24 $.C.R Project 
103 Projects Using L.E.Ds 
121 Electronic Projects 
150 Circuits — 
500 Electronic iC CKTs with Practical Applications 
An Introduction to DIGITAL ELECTRONICS 
Build Your Own Digital CLOCKS Vol.1 
Build Your Own Digital CLOCKS Vol.2 
Build Your Own DISCO Projects 
Build Your Own SOLID-STATE STEREO AION 
CMOS IC’'S- Learning by Experiments 
Easy to Build Electronic ALARMS 
ELECTRONICS: BUILD & LEARN 
Electronic MUSICAL Projects 
Electronics Projects for Home Security 
Electronic TELEPHONE Projects 
Electronic TEST EQUIPMENT Handbook 
Hobby Eiectronics PROJECTS Special 
INTEGRATED CIRCUITS Applications 
OP AMPS Made Simple 
Practical DIGITAL ELECTRONICS Handbook 
Practical OPERATIONAL AMPLIFIER Projects 
Radio Data Charts 
Relays and their Applications 
The ENCYCLOPEDIA of Electronic Circuits 
THYRISTOR Theory & Applications 
Using Function Generators and PHASE LOCK LOOPS 
_ Using Semi-Conductor DIODES 
_ Versatile Electronic Circuits 


POWER SUPPLY 


B.Y.O. Battery Charger & Emergency Light 

-B.Y.O Battery Eliminators & Voltage Stabilizer 
Electronic Power Supply Handbook 
Power Supplies for all Occasions 
Power Supplies Switching Regulators inverter & Convertors 
Practical Emergency Light & Voltage Stabilizer [HINDI] 
Practical TRANSFORMER Design Handbook 

_ Switch Mode Power Supply Design 

_ Voltage Stabilizers & Automatic Cutouts _ 


AND MANY MORE BOOKS TO COME 


BPB PUBLICATIONS 


B-14, CONNAUGHT PLACE. NEW DELHI-110001 


PRICE Rs. 15-00 _ | DP 06/04/95 


