ADMINISTRATIVE  NOTES 

Newsletter  of  the  Federal  Depository  Library  Program 


Vol.  14,  no.  13  GP  3.16/3-2:14/13    June  20,  1993 

Summary,  Spring  Meeting 
Depository  Library  Council 

Washington,  DC 
May  17-18,  1993 

Monday,  May  17,  1993 

The  Spring  1993  Depository  Library  Council  (DLC)  meeting  was  held  May  17-18,  1993 
in  the  Carl  Hay  den  Room  at  the  Government  Printing  Office  (GPO).  Council  members  in 
attendance:  Gary  Cornwell,  Chair;  Beth  Duston,  Chair-Elect;  Susan  Tulis,  Secretary; 
William  Ellis;  Carol  Gordon;  Sandy  Morton-Schwalb;  Robert  Oakley;  Kay  Schlueter;  Jack 
Sulzer;  Richard  Varn;  Mark  Vonderhaar;  and  John  Weiner. 

The  meeting  began  with  Council  setting  its  goals  and  objectives  for  this  meeting.  It  was 
hoped  that  by  working  through  the  draft  document,  "Alternatives  for  Restructuring  the 
Depository  Library  Program  (DLP),"  Council  could  move  the  discussion  forward,  come  up 
with  some  recommendations,  and  be  able  to  issue  the  report  not  as  a  draft  but  as  a  report  of 
!  Council. 

Wayne  Kelley,  Superintendent  of  Documents,  told  us  that  this  meeting  was  important  to 
GPO  because  of  all  the  changes  taking  place  throughout  the  government.  GPO  staff  would  be 
carefully  listening  to  all  that  is  said  during  this  meeting.  Library  Programs  Service  (LPS) 
will  be  having  a  retreat  in  June  to  talk  about  what  they  are  doing,  their  successes,  their 
frustrations,  and  discuss  how  they  can  improve  on  their  performance  based  upon  what  they 
have  heard  at  this  meeting  and  others. 

Judy  Russell,  Director,  LPS,  updated  us  on  GPO  connecting  to  the  Internet.  Commerce 
is  in  the  process  of  installing  an  Internet  connection  for  its  Electronic  Bulletin  Board.  If  it 
works  for  Commerce,  then  GPO  will  copy  them.  The  plan  is  to  have  telnet  access  through 
the  Internet  to  the  bulletin  board,  allowing  screen  capture  and  supporting  kermit  file  transfer, 
but  no  FTP. 

In  response  to  a  question,  Ms.  Russell  stated  that  GPO  will  accept  the  software  for  Phase 
1  of  ACSIS  by  the  conclusion  of  this  fiscal  year,  after  having  had  one  full  year  of  testing, 
use,  and  debugging.  There  is  no  firm  schedule  for  when  phases  2  and  3  will  be  in  place. 
'      Phase  1  is  already  impacting  GPO;  the  classifiers  have  moved  to  the  receiving  area  so  they 
can  work  with  the  material  as  it  arrives.    This  change  should  expedite  the  processing  as  well 
as  identify  problems,  such  as  shorts,  and  will  provide  more  timely  opportunity  to  respond  to 


1 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


them.  Phase  2  deals  with  the  production  of  shipping  lists;  a  by-product  will  be  electronic 
delivery  of  shipping  lists.  Testing  on  Phase  2  should  begin  Oct.  1,  1993.  Phase  3  has  to  do 
with  microfiche. 

The  breaking  out  of  item  numbers  is  being  done  by  the  inspectors  as  time  permits.  There 
is,  therefore,  no  target  date  for  when  the  30  suggested  items  numbers  might  be  broken  out. 
At  this  point  it  is  hard  to  estimate  if  this  will  result  in  any  cost  savings  since  LPS  will  still 
have  to  resurvey  libraries.  Ms.  Russell  also  mentioned  another  proposal  being  considered.  It 
appears  in  the  May  15,  1993  Administrative  Notes  issue  and  deals  with  the  discontinuation  of 
ephemeral  materials  such  as  newsletters,  preprints,  reprints,  and  separates.  She  stressed  that 
this  is  just  a  proposal. 

Russell  Duncan,  Graphic  Systems  Development  Division,  gave  Council  a  demonstration 
of  a  prototype  online  Congressional  Record.  The  software  he  demonstrated  was  Electronic 
Book  Technology  by  Dynatext.  It  was  fairly  sophisticated  and  supported  a  Windows 
application.  The  company  had  done  some  customization  for  GPO,  such  as  always  showing 
you  what  page  number  you  were  on  and  who  was  speaking.  Standard  Generalized  Markup 
Language  (SGML)  was  needed  so  that  sections  within  sections  within  sections  could  be 
located.  It  is  possible  to  limit  a  search  request  based  on  the  SGML  tags.  With  a  color 
monitor,  the  different  types  of  material  in  the  Record  appeared  in  different  colors.  Mr. 
Duncan  said  that  it  would  be  possible  to  have  it  be  different  type  faces  if  a  color  monitor  was 
not  used.  Tables  are  in  there,  but  GPO  hasn't  figured  out  exactly  how  they  will  be  put  in.  It 
is  also  possible  to  cut  and  paste  portions,  export  portions,  and  set  up  different  screen  views 
and  different  printer  views.  At  present,  GPO  is  working  to  make  its  typesetting  program 
accept  SGML  tags. 

It  is  still  not  clear  how  this  would  be  distributed  to  depository  libraries.  Libraries  might 
dial  up  to  GPO  to  search,  libraries  might  receive  the  SGML  tagged  data  so  they  could  put  it 
up  on  their  local  systems,  or  libraries  might  get  a  monthly  cumulative  CD-ROM.  It  is 
assumed  that  one  year  of  the  Congressional  Record  would  take  2  disks.  It  might  also  be 
possible  to  produce  a  cumulative  index  of  the  bi-weekly  indexes  on  a  CD-ROM.  Ms.  Russell 
said  that  for  a  while  there  will  probably  be  multiple  formats,  until  they  find  what  is  best  and 
most  cost-effective.  The  RFP  for  the  software  is  being  worked  on  right  now;  so  it  is  not 
certain  the  selection  of  software  will  be  finalized. 

Joan  Lippincott,  Coalition  for  Networked  Information  (CNT),  spoke  about  CNI's  Access 
to  Public  Information  Program  (APIP)  which  has  the  overall  purpose  of  improving  public 
access  to  networked  government  information  via  the  Internet.  The  primary  objectives  of  this 
program  are  to  push  things  a  little  more  quickly  than  they  might  happen  in  the  formal 
bureaucratic  environment  of  the  institutions  that  exist  and  to  launch  some  experimental 
products  and  disseminate  what  they  learn.  One  of  the  initiatives  is  to  improve  GPO 
Depository  Library  connectivity  to  and  programming  of  networked  Federal  information. 
Council  was  very  much  interested  in  this  particular  initiative  since  it  has  just  been  talking  ^ 
about  electronic  libraries.  This  may  be  a  way  to  test  out  what  the  issues  are  in  terms  of 
providing  service  to  networked  information,  how  to  receive  it,  how  to  archive  it,  how  the 
receiving  library  can  get  information  out  to  others,  both  on  Internet  and  those  not  on  Internet, 
etc.  No  libraries  have  been  chosen  yet  for  this  project.  It  was  suggested  that  Carol  Gordon 
and  Jack  Sulzer  work  with  CNI  in  whatever  way  possible  and  communicate  back  to  both  GPO 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


and  Council  with  their  findings  or  plan. 

Carol  Watts,  National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  Administration,  spoke  about  the  work 
being  done  at  NOAA  to  collect  and  disseminate  data  on  the  global  change  activities  of  the 
Federal  government.  There  is  a  Library  Information  Subgroup  of  the  Interagency  Working 
Group  on  Data  Management  for  Global  Change.  In  addition  to  saving  researchers'  time  and 
assisting  those  who  need  to  obtain  global  change  information,  this  subgroup  will  coordinate 
library  collections,  work  with  others  on  bibliographic  problems,  identify  and  develop  library 
products,  work  with  libraries  and  information  producers,  and  address  preservation  issues. 

Steve  Hayes  outlined  the  activities  of  the  Dupont  Circle  Group,  an  independent  group  of 
practicing  documents  librarians  who  put  together  a  discussion  document  on  restructuring  of 
the  Depository  Library  Program.  All  depositories  should  have  received  copies  by  now. 

Mike  DiMario,  Acting  Public  Printer,  briefly  touched  on  a  number  of  topics.  (The  full 
text  of  his  remarks  appear  in  Administrative  Notes,  vol.  14,  no.  11,  May  31,  1993,  pp.  1-2.) 
While  it  is  true  that  he  is  in  an  acting  capacity,  GPO  is  not  in  a  holding  pattern.  Some 
changes  he  proposed  are  linking  the  Council  meeting  with  the  annual  Federal  Depository 
Conference,  moving  the  annual  meeting  and  the  Spring  Council  meeting  around  the  country, 
that  new  appointments  to  Council  will  come  from  the  ranks  of  working  depository  librarians, 
and  changing  the  plan  for  the  distribution  of  the  Serial  Set. 

In  regard  to  the  Serial  Set,  Mr.  DiMario  said  that  he  had  received  a  letter  from  Senator 
Ford  asking  him  to  reconsider  his  predecessor's  decision  about  its  distribution.  Since 
Congress  was  willing  to  move  money  from  Congressional  Printing  and  Binding  for  the 
distribution  of  the  Serial  Set,  Mr.  DiMario  sees  this  as  the  direction  Congress  intended  GPO 
to  take.  He  also  feels  that  the  whole  issue  of  the  Serial  Set  has  put  the  Public  Printer  and  the 
Superintendent  of  Documents  in  an  outrageous  position  of  making  political  decisions.  That  is 
not  the  function  of  either  job.  Their  jobs  are  largely  ministerial  in  nature  -  to  carry  out  the 
mandates  of  the  policy  that  have  been  established  by  the  Congress  and  the  President.  But  he 
also  acknowledged  that  there  is  only  so  much  funding.    One  method  of  dealing  with  the 
limited  funding  is  that  when  you  run  out  of  money,  you  go  and  advise  the  Congress  of  that 
situation.  The  amount  of  money  given  to  this  program  to  "inform  the  nation"  is  minute. 

There  was  concern  by  Council  members  about  Mr.  DiMario' s  suggestion  that  being  a 
working  depository  librarian  might  be  a  prerequisite  to  being  a  member  of  Council.  Mr. 
DiMario  stated  that  it  was  his  sense  that  other  interested  parties  should  be  made  ex-officio 
members  of  Council.  They  would  still  participate  fully  in  the  deliberations,  but  not  vote. 
Members  of  Council  felt  that  a  balance  needed  to  be  struck  in  the  membership  of  Council. 

Discussion  of  Council  Document 

Bob  Oakley  served  as  the  facilitator  for  the  discussion  of  the  Council  draft  document. 
The  draft  report  does  not  come  to  any  conclusions  or  recommendations  and  it  was  thought 
that  this  might  result  from  this  discussion. 

The  first  question  addressed  was  "why  are  we  talking  about  restructuring  anyhow?" 


3 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 

Council  suggested  five  possible  reasons  for  restructuring  the  program.  The  changing  nature 
of  information  dissemination,  moving  from  print  to  electronic  is  one  reason.  The  second 
reason  is  a  response  to  the  economic  crisis  surrounding  the  program.  A  third  reason  is 
addressing  the  fact  that  there  is  a  better  way,  a  better  vision  for  disseminating  government 
information.  A  paradigm  shift  to  a  user  driven  system  is  the  fourth  reason.  Lastly,  with  all 
the  electronic  initiatives  taking  place  right  now,  restructuring  may  be  needed  to  redefine  the 
depository  library's  role  in  the  new  information  environment. 

While  it  might  be  true  that  changing  formats  and  a  better  vision  may  be  uppermost  in 
many  people's  minds,  the  economic  crisis  is  still  a  large  factor  that  can't  be  dismissed. 
Observers  pointed  out  that  it  might  be  a  political  crisis  or  an  economic  reality  as  opposed  to  a 
economic  crisis. 

The  second  question  Council  addressed  was  "what  are  the  values/goals  of  the  DLP?" 
Seven  such  values/goals  were  identified  and  Council  felt  that  it  was  possible  to  define  a  role 
for  depository  libraries  in  each  of  them. 

Values/Goals 

1.    Informed  electorate  -  government  accountability; 

2    Economic  benefits  -  building  better  economic  potential  or  opportunities; 

3.  Education; 

4.  Intermediaries  -  librarians  know  what  information  is  out  there  and  how  to  find  it. 
Libraries  serve  as  information  utilities. 

5.  Neutral  sites  -  libraries  serve  as  the  boy/girl  scouts  of  the  information  arena.  Libraries 
don't  have  an  ax  to  grind,  there  is  no  spin  put  on  the  information.  As  Senator  Kerrey 
said,  "People  trust  libraries." 

6.  Libraries  are  the  heart  or  focal  points  of  communities  and  therefore  the  obvious  link  to 
get  government  information  to  citizens. 

7.  Libraries  serve  as  a  way  of  sharing  information  -  between  Federal  government,  state 
governments,  and  citizens. 

It  was  mentioned  a  number  of  times  that  the  $30  million  dollar  program  to  "inform  the 
nation"  is  such  a  small  amount  when  you  are  talking  about  a  trillion  dollar  government 
budget.  While  $30  million  sounds  like  it  is  not  easy  to  cut,  it  is  easy  to  cut.  One  observer 
pointed  out  that  the  current  Federal  budget  proposal  includes  $261  billion  in  incentive 
programs.  Is  the  DLP  part  of  the  group  that  should  be  involved  in  an  incentive  program  to 
have  an  informed  nation  or  is  it  part  of  the  group  that  needs  to  be  sliced  out  of  the  budget  so 
that  you  have  the  money  for  the  incentive  program?  There  is  a  need  to  illustrate  to  Congress 
the  value  of  the  DLP.  In  some  respects,  the  DLP  is  a  victim  of  its  own  efficiency.  The 
program  has  made  do  with  the  funding  it  has  received.  But  we  have  reached  the  limit  of 
what  else  can  be  done  with  limited  funding. 


4 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Assumptions 

Next,  the  report  itself  was  discussed.  It  was  decided  to  change  assumption  nine  to  read: 

9.  New  laws,  regulations  and  information  systems,  and  related  changes  in  how 
government  information  is  collected,  maintained,  and  disseminated  will  have  a  major 
impact  on  the  Depository  Library  Program. 

Assumption  one,  which  reads,  "The  Depository  Library  Program  is  and  will  continue  to 
be  a  vital  link  between  the  citizens  and  the  agencies  of  American  government  needing  to 
distribute  information"  also  generated  discussion.  It  was  questioned  whether  we  should  say 
depository  libraries  or  just  libraries.  Is  this  assumption  too  limiting  for  how  we  envision  the 
future?  Libraries  will  serve  a  vital  link  in  the  transition,  but  depository  libraries  may  be  a 
link,  not  the  link.  It  was  also  pointed  out  that  the  Dupont  Circle  Group  did  not  make  the 
assumption  that  the  DLP  will  exist  as  we  now  know  it.  Does  Council  really  mean  GPO's 
DLP  or  rather  a  system  of  active  government  distribution  in  a  systematic  way  of  its 
information  resources  through  libraries?    Additionally,  it  was  argued  that  the  DLP  will 
continue  to  be  a  vital  link  because  not  everything  is  going  to  be  electronic  and  the  archival 
ftinction  of  libraries  is  essential.  If  Council  can  agree  with  the  DLP  benefits  statements  (both 
to  the  public  and  to  Federal  agencies)  of  the  Dupont  Circle  Group,  then  assumption  one  is 
true.  It  may  not  be  the  DLP  as  we  now  know  it,  but  there  will  be  some  designated  group  of 
libraries  to  act  as  intermediaries  between  the  source  of  government  information  and  the  end 
users.  The  consensus  of  Council  was  that  assumption  one  should  be  changed  to: 

1.  A  Depository  Library  Program  should  and  will  continue  to  be  a  vital  link  between  the 
citizens  and  the  agencies  of  American  government  needing  to  distribute  information. 

i 

Alternative  Scenarios  I 

The  alternative  scenarios  that  appear  in  the  report  are  the  result  of  brainstorming.  The 
plan  was  to  get  a  number  of  scenarios  out  onto  the  table  so  that  they  could  be  discussed.  The 
tougher  job  is  to  see  which  ones  Council  likes  or  dislikes,  and  possibly  make  some 
recommendations  for  the  future  direction  of  the  DLP. 

The  scenarios  can  be  grouped  into  three  clusters:  economically  oriented,  access  to 
electronic,  and  relationships  between  different  kinds  of  depositories. 

Economically  Oriented 

Downsizing  was  the  first  economically  oriented  scenario  that  Council  addressed. 
Downsizing  means  two  different  things:  reducing  the  number  of  libraries  in  the  system  and 
also  reducing  the  number  of  items  selected  by  libraries. 

There  was  a  general  feeling  among  some  Council  members  that  many  smaller  libraries 
feel  that  the  administrative  overhead  is  killing  them  and  they  might  be  forced  to  drop  out  of 
the  Program.  Picking  up  on  the  Basic  Service  Centers  outlined  in  the  Dupont  Circle  Report, 
maybe  some  libraries  would  be  willing  to  receive  a  predetermined  core  set  of  items  in 
exchange  for  different  overhead  responsibilities  (i.e.  no  inspections,  no  disposition  lists,  etc.) 


5 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


The  question  was  raised  as  to  why  libraries  don't  just  select  less?  Besides  the  fact  that  this 
proposal  would  reduce  the  overhead  burden,  there  are  mixed  signals  coming  from  GPO  in 
terms  of  how  much  libraries  are  supposed  to  select.  The  inspectors  are  telling  libraries  that 
they  have  to  select  a  certain  percentage,  and  others  within  GPO  are  telling  libraries  they  need 
to  select  less. 

Another  option  mentioned  was  to  allow  libraries  to  select  a  core  collection,  with  reduced 
overhead  responsibilities,  and  then  shift  some  of  the  money  saved  to  purchase  equipment 
needed  for  accessing  electronic  information.  (Similar  to  what  the  Patent  and  Trademark 
Office  does  with  its  Patent  Depository  Libraries.) 

Another  aspect  of  downsizing  is  requiring  libraries  to  meet  some  sort  of  minimum 
requirements  or  standards  to  be  a  depository  library.    But  what  exactly  is  meant  when  we 
say  minimum  requirements  or  standards?  Are  we  talking  about  overhead  responsibilities, 
computer  workstations,  shelving,  staffing,  or  service?    And  are  we  trying  to  increase  or 
decrease  the  standards?  In  some  instances  we  may  be  trying  to  decrease  the  overhead  burden 
so  the  quality  of  service  can  be  increased.  Equipment  requirements  might  be  used  to 
convince  a  director  of  the  need  for  such  equipment  in  order  to  stay  in  the  Program.  But 
lowering  the  overhead  burdens  may  result  in  the  Program  not  doing  what  it  was  intended  to 
do  by  Congress. 

Reducing  the  number  of  libraries  in  the  system  raises  a  whole  host  of  other 
questions/concerns.  The  Council  report  states  that  one  of  the  strengths  of  the  Program  is  that 
depository  libraries  are  in  every  Congressional  district  -  can  we  turn  around  and  start  pulling 
libraries  out?  How  do  you  handle  redistricting  and  grandfathering  in,  which  produces  more 
than  two  libraries  per  Congressional  district?  The  law  currently  doesn't  allow  for 
undesignating  a  depository  library.  That  is  why  there  is  a  strict  inspection  program  to  meet 
certain  standards. 

It  was  suggested  that  maybe  reducing  the  number  of  libraries  couldn't  exist  on  its  own  - 
maybe  it  needs  to  be  done  in  conjunction  with  another  scenario.  While  it  is  true  that  reducing 
the  number  of  libraries  in  the  Program  would  address  the  economic  concerns,  it  may  not 
address  the  other  reasons  for  restructuring.    If  there  are  two  or  three  depository  libraries  in 
one  district,  do  they  all  need  to  be  of  the  same  service  level?  Can  you  restructure  so  you 
have  different  criteria  for  law  libraries,  Federal  libraries,  etc.?  Or  different  criteria  levels 
dependent  on  the  number  of  items  selected?  Or  could  you  require  that  all  the  libraries  in  one 
Congressional  district  can't  collectively  select  more  than  125%  of  all  available  items  (this 
assumes  Regionals  are  excluded  in  this  formula)? 

It  was  suggested  that  we  might  want  to  recommend  a  moratorium  on  appointing  new 
depository  libraries.  It  was  not  clear  whether  this  was  possible  to  do,  legally.  But  it  might 
work  if  done  in  conjunction  with  minimum  technical  requirements  for  a  library  to  become  a 
depository.  It  was  also  unclear  whether  Council  was  trying  to  say  there  should  be  no  more 
depository  libraries  or  there  should  be  fewer  than  the  current  1400.  It  was  suggested  that  we 
study  this  more  and  come  back  to  it  at  the  Fall  meeting. 

The  other  economically  oriented  scenario  is  the  direct  support  model.  This  model  has  as 
its  basis  the  notion  that  customer  satisfaction  or  empowerment  from  the  perspective  of  the 


6 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


consumer  is  the  best  measure  of  success  and  the  best  place  to  control  the  system.  It  relies  on 
knowing  how  much  each  library  costs  the  system  and  how  much  money  is  available  to 
support  them.  Each  library  then  gets  to  choose  how  to  spend  its  allocation  -  either  on 
products  and  services  from  GPO  or  from  any  other  provider.  This  system  won't  get  GPO 
any  more  money,  but  does  enable  libraries  to  feel  more  ownership  in  the  system. 

There  were  many  questions  about  this  model.  Can  GPO,  would  GPO  give  this  much 
control  to  libraries?  The  additional  administrative  aspects  to  implement  this  are  astronomical. 
How  do  you  assign  value  to  items  -  by  publications,  by  item  numbers,  or  what?  How  do  you 
determine  the  base  budget  for  each  library?  How  do  you  know  when  a  library  has  spent  all 
their  money?  How  do  you  allow  for  new  publications?  What  benefits  does  this  system 
provide  to  users?  Who  is  going  to  take  the  less  glitzy  stuff  and  how  will  librarians  know  who 
has  what? 

There  was  some  discussion  of  expanding  the  potential  uses  of  a  library's  allocated  credits 
to  include  the  purchase  of  equipment.  There  was  also  some  interest  expressed  in  enlarging 
the  scope  of  permissible  uses  to  include  training. 

This  model  is  mainly  designed  for  when  GPO  doesn't  have  enough  money.  If  GPO  is 
covering  all  the  costs  and  everyone  is  getting  what  they  need,  then  this  proposal  isn't 
necessary. 

Tuesday,  May  18,  1993 

Access  to  Electronics 

Four  of  the  Council  scenarios  fit  into  this  cluster: 

1)  GPO  as  the  primary  point  of  access, 

2)  electronic  depositories, 

3)  minimum  technical  requirements,  and 

4)  renaming  the  program  to  recognize  changes  brought  on  by  the  era  of  electronic 
information. 

The  first  question  Council  addressed  was  "what  is  the  role  of  GPO  in  providing  access  to 
electronic  government  information?"  Is  it  limited  to  tangible  products  and  services  as  is 
suggested  in  one  of  the  Dupont  Circle  Group  models?  Should  GPO  concentrate  on  the  print 
products,  the  things  they  do  well,  and  look  for  another  source  for  depository  libraries  to 
receive  the  electronic  information,  so  they  don't  have  to  split  resources  to  get  into  a  whole 
new  ballgame? 

There  are  many  who  feel  that  the  time  for  central  coordinated  distribution  has  passed. 
Agencies  have  information  out  there  on  the  Internet,  and  WAIS  servers.  Should  GPO's  role 
in  electronics  be  having  a  locator  or  access  system?  Is  it  wrong  to  say  that  depository 
libraries  are  going  to  be  able  to  fulfill  their  mission  with  only  online  sources  from  GPO  in  the 
future? 


7 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

Or  should  GPO  act  as  an  intermediary  to  acquire  electronic  services  for  the  DLP  rather 
than  bring  them  up  themselves,  build  its  own  computer  system  or  tie  into  a  supercomputer  in 
the  sky?  Many  believe  that  GPO  should  serve  a  procurement  role  on  behalf  of  the  DLP. 
One  way  for  GPO  to  do  this  is  for  GPO  to  become  a  GOPHER  site,  gopher  into  other 
Federal  data  sources,  or  if  necessary,  telnet  out  to  get  into  other  sources. 

Or  instead  of  GPO  serving  as  a  central  gateway,  should  you  have  electronic  depositories 
serving  as  nodes  themselves,  serving  a  more  distributed  function? 

It  was  unclear  whether  it  is  too  late  for  GPO  to  get  involved.  Things  are  changing  daily, 
maybe  the  best  thing  is  for  GPO  to  stick  itself  into  one  of  the  many  initiatives  currently 
available,  and  get  some  experience.  Just  getting  on  the  Internet  and  experimenting  with  that 
would  be  a  good  start.  Working  with  CNI  on  their  initiative  could  get  GPO  the  answer  to 
some  of  the  questions  we  have  been  asking  in  terms  of  electronic  depositories. 

Although  Council  never  answered  the  question  as  to  whether  GPO  should  be  in  the 
business  of  providing  access  to  electronic  government  information  online,  the  answer  is  in  the 
GPO  Access  bill.  Assuming  it  passes,  the  specific  provisions  as  to  what  GPO  should  be 
doing  are  outlined  in  the  bill.  If  GPO  doesn't  do  a  good  job  of  fulfilling  the  requirements  of 
the  Access  bill,  the  question  is  a  moot  one  because  GPO  won't  be  involved  in  it  anyway. 

The  bill  requires  GPO  to  provide  an  electronic  directory.  What  does  this  mean?  Will  it 
be  a  locator  system  of  everything  or  a  locator  to  agency  locator  systems?  Is  providing  a 
locator  to  locators  something  we  want  the  DLP  to  do?  At  this  point  there  are  no  incentives 
or  standards  for  agencies  to  provide  their  information  in  formats  that  are  usable.  How  will 
GPO  address  that? 

What  would  be  lost  if  users  went  directly  to  the  agencies  as  opposed  to  a  GPO  gateway? 
Would  there  still  be  low  cost  or  free  access  to  information  if  the  direct  access  method  is 
used?  Our  fundamental  principles  should  not  disappear  just  because  the  formats  have 
changed. 

Mr.  Kelley  gave  his  view  of  the  situation.    GPO  at  this  point  needs  to  have  something 
useful,  that  is  visible,  that  is  focused  and  succeeds  in  order  to  move  into  the  electronic  arena 
and  become  a  player.  The  Access  bill  provides  a  starting  point  with  a  core  of  two  items.  If 
GPO  starts  with  high  demand  items,  in  user  friendly  formats,  identifies  depository  libraries 
who  have  the  resources  and  interest,  who  are  able  to  provide  the  participation  and  evaluation 
of  what  worked,  then  GPO  can  take  that  and  build  on  it  as  a  prototype  of  what  might  work 
system  wide.  Unfortunately,  funding  is  still  an  issue. 

Discussion  of  the  third  cluster  of  scenarios,  the  relationships  between  different  types  of 
depositories,  was  incorporated  into  the  discussion  of  the  Dupont  Circle  Group  document. 


8 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Dupont  Circle  Group  Document 

Jack  Sulzer  served  as  facilitator  for  the  discussion  on  the  Dupont  Circle  Group  document. 
The  discussion  moved  from  GPO's  role  in  all  of  this  to  the  actual  structure  of  the 
dissemination  program.  It  was  the  general  consensus  of  Council  that  the  status  quo  was  not  a 
viable  option. 

The  Dupont  Circle  Group  document  has  as  its  Service  Model  1  -  Federal  Information 
Service  Centers.  This  is  based  on  having  three  service  levels  -  basic,  intermediary,  and  full. 
Council  had  had  some  discussion  about  the  basic  service  center  yesterday.  It  was  decided 
that  the  depository  community  should  be  surveyed  to  determine  if  enough  interest  exists  for 
GPO  to  pursue  this  as  a  viable  option.  While  it  was  decided  that  more  than  one  core 
collection  would  be  necessary  (i.e.  law,  sci/tech,  general),  the  incentives  would  still  be 
reduced  administrative  overhead.  The  core  list  would  not  be  restricted  by  format. 

The  intermediate  service  center  seems  to  be  the  model  of  the  average  selective 
depository.  What  makes  the  intermediate  service  centers  unique?  How  are  they  different 
from  full  service  centers?  It  would  appear  that  intermediates  would  serve  as  the  linkage  or 
transition  between  full  and  basic  service  centers.  It  became  clear  that  intermediate  service 
centers  are  very  hard  to  describe  since  they  cover  a  number  of  different  people  and 
collections. 

The  full  service  center  seems  to  get  into  the  role  of  regionals.  What  is  the  incentive  for 
a  library  to  be  a  full  service  center?  Should  full  service  centers  act  as  libraries  of  last  resort? 
It  was  hard  to  see  full  service  centers  as  separate  from  regionals  or  subject  based  libraries.  It 
was  suggested  that  shared  regionals  might  be  the  way  to  go  -  does  every  regional  have  to  get 
everything?  Or  could  2-3  libraries  share  that  responsibility  for  a  given  number  of  states? 

Council  Operations 

Before  Council  wrote  the  following  recommendations,  they  addressed  some  operational 
matters.  Sandy  Morton-Schwalb  agreed  to  attend  the  NTIS  Advisory  Board  meeting  May  27- 
28,  1993  and  report  back  to  Council. 

The  Communications  Committee  reported  on  their  meeting  during  the  Federal  Depository 
Conference  April  22,  1993.  The  meeting  addressed  four  communications  questions,  the 
comments  of  which  are  summarized  on  p.  16  of  this  issue  of  Administrative  Notes.  Some  of 
the  comments  have  been  resolved  as  a  result  of  Mr.  DiMario's  remarks  yesterday.  Although 
the  Communications  Committee  didn't  have  any  specific  recommendations,  they  did  throw 
some  issues  back  to  Council  for  discussion  and  action.  Should  a  friends'  group  of  GPO  be 
established?  Should  an  operations  committee  of  Council  be  established  to  work  with  the 
GODORT  Depository  Operations  Work  Group?  It  is  not  the  intent  to  have  operational  stuff 
brought  to  Council  to  deliberate.  This  committee  would  identify  operational  issues  that 
needed  an  administrative  response,  communicate  directly  with  GPO  to  resolve  them,  and 
report  to  Council,  but  that  is  all. 


9 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Should  GPO  explore  the  use  of  teleconferencing  as  a  way  of  communicating  Council 
deliberations  to  those  individuals  who  are  unable  to  attend  the  meetings?  Should  there  be  a 
Communications  or  Council  column  in  Administrative  Notes?  Is  there  a  way  to  make 
Administrative  Notes  more  timely? 

How  can  we  get  more  agencies  to  participate  at  the  Federal  Depository  Conference? 
Federal  Publishers  Committee  will  send  out  the  information  about  the  conference  if  they  get  it 
in  time.  It  was  also  suggested  that  we  get  some  agencies  that  have  participated  in  the 
conference  to  write  a  one  page  article  about  the  benefits  to  agencies  in  participating  in  the 
conference. 

It  was  the  feeling  of  Council  that  under  the  previous  Public  Printer  the  bylaws  we  had 
were  not  a  reflection  of  what  we  were  doing.  Therefore,  Council  has  drafted  a  mission  and 
charter  that  is  more  flexible,  allowing  for  both  a  policy  role  and  an  operational  role  for 
Council.  In  terms  of  the  make-up  of  Council,  it  says  "at  least  half  will  work  in  a  depository 
library  and  have  documents  experience. "  Another  change  from  the  old  by-laws  is  that  the 
election  of  Chair  is  not  dependent  upon  class.  The  mission  and  charter  will  be  published  in 
Administrative  Notes  to  get  community  feedback  and  then  be  adopted  at  the  Fall  93  Council 
meeting.  [See  p.  14  of  this  issue.] 

Once  the  mission  and  charter  are  adopted  they  will  be  added  to  the  "Handbook  of  the 
Depository  Library  Council"  and  then  the  Handbook  will  be  disseminated  to  the  depository 
community.  It  was  suggested  that  this  Handbook  also  go  with  the  letter  to  various  groups 
requesting  names  for  consideration  as  potential  Council  appointees. 

The  next  step  for  Council  is  to  clean  up  its  draft  report,  make  the  changes  that  resulted 
from  this  meeting,  and  get  it  out  to  the  depository  community  as  a  discussion  piece.  It  will 
be  printed  in  Administrative  Notes  [see  p.  18  of  this  issue],  along  with  this  summary  of  the 
meeting,  as  well  as  a  comment  sheet  [see  p.  55  of  this  issue],  and  Council  members'  names 
and  addresses  [see  p.  59  of  this  issue].  Feedback  on  this  report  is  needed  to  make  it  a 
depository  community  document. 

Although  it  is  hoped  that  this  report  will  end  up  being  a  consensus  document,  stating 
what  the  depository  libraries'  view  is  of  the  future  of  the  DLP,  it  is  not  Council's  role  to  get 
this  document  into  the  hands  of  Congress  and  other  decision  makers.    But  this  doesn't 
prevent  others  from  taking  the  Council  report  and  using  it  or  appending  it  to  other  reports. 

In  the  course  of  making  recommendations,  a  number  of  things  either  got  referred  to  the 
Fall  meeting  or  it  was  felt  a  recommendation  was  not  needed.  The  Council  Corner  in 
Administrative  Notes  is  a  given.  Council  just  needs  to  submit  material  to  the  editor.  The 
Communications  Committee  will  continue  to  exist  and  Beth  Duston  will  appoint  a  new 
member  and  chair  in  the  Fall.  It  was  suggested  that  the  names  of  members  of  this  committee 
as  well  as  a  statement  of  purpose  be  published  in  Administrative  Notes. 

It  was  the  sense  of  Council  that  there  is  a  problem  with  either  the  number  of  depository 
libraries  or  the  way  they  are  distributed,  since  there  are  too  many  in  some  areas.  Although 
Council  could  not  come  up  with  a  recommendation  to  address  this  problem,  we  encourage 
GPO  to  give  this  some  consideration  and  invite  GPO  to  work  with  Council  on  this.  If 


10 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

nothing  changes  before  the  Fall,  Council  will  deal  with  this  then. 

The  question  was  raised  that  as  GPO  moves  into  electronic  access,  is  Council  willing  to 
tell  GPO  how  much  to  spend  on  this  endeavor?  It  was  suggested  that  the  information  shared 
with  the  focus  groups  would  be  very  valuable  in  determining  this,  that  if  Council  members 
could  get  that  financial  data,  then  Council  could  address  this  in  the  Fall. 

Council  was  not  ready  to  make  a  recommendation  on  restructuring  of  the  DLP.  It  is 
expected  that  this  will  be  done  at  the  Fall  meeting  once  the  community  has  had  a  chance  to 
comment. 

Gary  Comwell  turned  the  gavel  over  to  Beth  Duston  who  is  now  Council  Chair.  Kay 
Schlueter  was  elected  Secretary.  Ms.  Duston  announced  that  Jack  Sulzer  will  serve  as  her 
assistant  until  a  Chair-Elect  is  chosen  at  the  Fall  meeting. 

Submitted  by: 
Susan  E.  Tulis 
Secretary 


Recommendations 
Depository  Library  Council 
May  27,  1993 

The  Depository  Library  Council  to  the  Public  Printer  offers  the  following 
recommendations  to  Michael  DiMario,  Acting  Public  Printer  as  a  result  of  our  Spring  1993 
meeting: 

1.  Council  agrees  with  the  Acting  Public  Printer  that  meetings  of  the  DLC  should  alternate 
between  Washington  D.C.  and  other  cities  around  the  country.  However,  it  is  the 
opinion  of  Council  that  there  is  value  to  holding  the  Spring  Council  meeting  in 
Washington  D.C.  in  conjunction  with  the  Federal  Depository  Conference  and  Library 
Legislative  Day. 

Consequently,  we  recommend  that  the  Spring  meeting  remain  in  Washington  D.C.  and 
that  the  Fall  meeting  be  "on  the  road."  Airport  "hub"  cities,  since  they  are  easier  and 
less  expensive  to  get  to,  should  be  given  first  consideration  as  locations  for  road 
meetings. 

2.  GPO  should  experiment  with  teleconferencing  the  next  DLC  meeting  as  a  prototype  for 
improving  communications  with  depository  librarians  and  other  interested  stakeholders 
unable  to  attend  the  meeting. 

3.  Future  Council  meetings  should  be  extended  to  at  least  2  1/2  days  and  should  include  an 


11 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 

Open  forum  discussion  by  observers  on  the  specific  DLC  topic  for  that  meeting.  The 
open  forum  should  be  moderated  by  a  member  of  Council. 

4.  Council  strongly  supports  the  appointment  of  more  practicing  documents  librarians  to  the 
DLC  than  has  been  true  in  the  recent  past,  but  feels  just  as  strongly  that  a  balance  must 
exist  in  the  membership  of  Council  between  practicing  librarians  and  other  interested 
stakeholders. 

5.  An  Operations  Committee  of  Council  should  be  established.  The  first  charge  of  this 
committee  would  be  to  work  with  the  GODORT  Depository  Operations  Work  Group  (and 
other  operations  groups  that  might  exist)  to  determine  the  best  way  to  establish  a  single 
access  point  that  libraries  could  contact  for  assistance  with  operational  issues  affecting  the 
DLP. 

6.  Council  strongly  supports  the  short-term  electronic  goals  of  GPO  (as  articulated  by  the 
Superintendent  of  Documents*)  with  particular  emphasis  on  the  need  for  a  real  (and 
immediate)  success  in  the  online  distribution  of  electronic  information. 

*GPO  at  this  point  needs  to  have  something  useful,  that  is  visible,  that  is  focused  and  that 
succeeds.  We  need  a  visible  success  to  move  into  this  field.    Because  a  lot  of  the  stuff 
we  are  talking  about  is  so  changeable,  the  first  thing  we  need  to  do  is  become  a  player.  I 
am  kind  of  interested  in  the  Access  bill  because,  in  effect,  it  sets  up  a  core.  There  are 
two  things  in  the  core  to  begin  with  and  then  it  says  as  other  agencies  are  willing  to  come 
forward  more  can  be  added.  Hey,  that's  a  start,  right?  If  we  do  that  successfully  we  are 
in  the  ballpark.  And,  I  would  say,  as  we  move  we  would  set  up  certain  things  we  want 
to  see  included.  You  start  with  things  that  are  of  high  level  of  interest.  Why  start  with  a 
low  level  of  interest  and  insure  there  is  no  visible  success?  So,  start  with  high  demand 
items  in  the  core  list.  And  I  would  say  we  would  deliver  it  in  user  friendly  formats  .... 
identifying  the  depository  libraries  who  have  the  resources  and  the  interest,  who  are  able 
to  provide  the  participation  and  the  evaluation  of  what  worked.  Then  we  take  that  and 
build  on  it  as  a  prototype  for  what  might  work  system  wide. 

7.  At  a  minimum,  GPO  should  move  into  the  electronic  arena  as  defined  in  the  GPO  Access 
bills  (H.R.  1328,  S.  564),  whether  or  not  these  bills  become  law.  Inherent  in  this 
recommendation  is  that  GPO  would  connect  to  the  Internet  and  take  the  initiative  in 
developing  an  online  access  program  regardless  of  the  outcome  of  these  bills. 

8.  The  type  of  software  that  was  demonstrated  before  Council  for  the  online  Congressional 
Record  is  the  kind  of  forward  thinking,  innovative  software  that  we  would  like  to  see 
accompany  all  Congressionally  produced  electronic  products.  Council  recommends  that  in 
instances  where  GPO  has  input  into  the  level  and  quality  of  software  that  accompanies 
electronic  products  and  services  that  this  or  similar  level  software  be  used. 

9.  Council  should  work  with  the  Coalition  for  Networked  Information  (CNI)  and  with  GPO 
to  optimize  results  from  the  Coalition's  Access  to  Public  Information  Program  (APIP). 
In  particular,  Council  is  interested  in  ensuring  that  results  from  the  "Connectivity  of 
Depository  Libraries"  initiative  that  is  part  of  APIP  help  provide  the  answers  necessary  to 
determine  the  feasibility  of  "electronic  depositories." 


12 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


10.  Council  recommends  a  moratorium  on  the  establishment  of  new  depository  libraries. 

11.  Minimum  technical  requirements  for  existing  depository  libraries  should  be  developed. 
In  addition,  it  is  the  opinion  of  Council  that  libraries  should  be  given  a  reasonable 
amount  of  time  to  meet  these  requirements.  Failure  to  comply  with  these  requirements 
after  a  reasonable  period  of  time  has  passed  should  be  treated  as  non-compliance  and  a 
major  infraction  of  the  rules  for  depository  libraries. 

12.  The  depository  library  community  should  be  surveyed  (with  all  deliberate  speed) 
regarding  potential  interest  in  the  following  two  ideas  for  short-term  restructuring  of  the 
Depository  Library  Program: 

A)  Basic  Service  Centers  -  a  library  could  select  a  core  collection  but  have  no 
opportunity  for  other  selections  or  changes.  This  would  reduce  overhead  and 
maintenance  for  the  library  and  reduce  distribution  costs  for  GPO. 

B)  Cooperative  regionals  or  multi-state  regionals  where  the  terms  and  conditions  of 
being  a  regional  are  different  from  the  current  structure.  For  example,  Regional^ 
might  not  have  to  select  100%  or  might  not  be  required  to  retain  all  material  forever. 

13.  Council  concurs  with  Mr.  DiMario's  reading  of  Congress  that  the  bound  Serial  Set  is  a 
valuable  resource  tool  for  the  depository  community  and  should  be  available  to  all 
depositories  wishing  to  select  it.  Council  is  willing  to  work  with  GPO  to  develop  a  less 
expensive  method  of  producing  this  title. 

14.  Council  supports  the  recommendation  made  by  the  Dupont  Circle  Group  that  the  focus  of 
the  inspection  program  be  changed  to  place  more  emphasis  on  education  and  training.  In 
addition,  Council  believes  that  inspectors  should  rotate  within  GPO  as  ombudsman  to 
communicate  with  libraries  on  depository  issues. 

15.  GPO  should  explore  the  feasibility  of  distributing  hardware  to  depository  libraries  to  use 
electronic  products.  While  this  would  probably  require  a  revision  to  Title  44,  long-term 
cost- savings  by  a  "wholesale  switch"  to  electronic  distribution  rather  than  traditional 
paper  format  would  give  credibility  to  this  alternative. 

16.  GPO  should  solicit  letters  from  Ken  Rogers  (Dept.  of  Commerce)  and  Phyllis 
Christenson  (GAO)  regarding  the  value  of  the  Federal  Depository  Conference  to 
agencies,  either  as  vendor  demonstrators  or  presenters  at  the  conference.  Letters  would 
go  to  Federal  Publishers  Committee  and  other  appropriate  organizations  for  distribution 
to  Federal  agencies. 

17.  Should  a  stakeholders  conference  on  the  restructuring  of  the  Depository  Library  Program 
be  held,  it  is  the  strong  opinion  of  Council  that  GPO  should  be  an  active  participant. 


13 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Proposed  Charter 
Depository  Library  Council 

The  following  document  is  proposed  as  a  Charter  for  the  Depository  Library  Council 
(DLC)  to  the  Public  Printer.  It  was  tentatively  approved  by  Council  at  the  Fall  1992  meeting 
for  operating  purposes.  The  new  Charter  will  supersede  and  replace  the  Council  Bylaws  that 
were  printed  in  Administrative  Notes,  Volume  11,  Number  17,  pp.  8-10  (August  15,  1990). 
It  is  the  belief  of  Council  that  the  new  Charter  will  allow  the  DLC  the  flexibility  to  advise  the 
Public  Printer  on  policy  issues  as  well  as  on  the  day-to-day  operational  issues  affecting  the 
Depository  Library  Program  (DLP).  Council  anticipates  approving  the  new  Charter  at  the 
Fall  1994  meeting.  If  you  have  any  comments  or  suggestions  regarding  the  proposed 
Charter,  please  forward  them  to  Beth  Duston,  Chair,  Depository  Library  Council. 

Depository  Library  Council  to  the  Public  Printer 
Mission 

To  assist  the  GPO  in  identifying  and  evaluating  alternatives  for  improving  public  access 
to  government  information  through  the  Depository  Library  Program  (DLP)  and  for  optimizing 
resources  available  for  operating  the  Program. 

Charter 

The  purpose  of  the  Depository  Library  Council  (DLC)  to  the  Public  Printer  is  to  provide 
advice  on  policy  matters  dealing  with  the  Depository  Library  Program  as  provided  in  Title 
44,  U.S.C.  The  primary  focus  of  Council's  work  will  be  to  advise  the  Public  Printer,  the 
Superintendent  of  Documents,  and  appropriate  members  of  GPO  staff  on  practical  options  for 
the  efficient  management  and  operation  of  the  DLP. 

The  Depository  Library  Council  shall  be  structured  to  provide  the  Public  Printer  with  a 
diverse  range  of  opinion  and  expertise.  Additionally,  it  shall  represent  a  cross  section  of  the 
various  types  of  libraries  in  the  Depository  Library  Program.  In  order  to  meet  this  goal,  at 
least  half  of  the  Council's  members  shall  work  in  Depository  Libraries  and  have  experience  in 
a  Documents  Department. 

Membership 

The  Depository  Library  Council  shall  consist  of  fifteen  members  appointed  by  the  Public 
Printer.  The  members  shall  serve  three  year  terms,  with  five  members  retiring  each  year  and 
five  new  members  entering.  The  Council  shall  meet  a  minimum  of  twice  each  year  with  the 
meetings  approximately  six  months  apart.  (Hereafter  referred  to  as  the  Spring  and  Fall 
meetings.)  New  members  shall  be  appointed  prior  to  the  Spring  meeting  and  will  assume 
duty  at  the  Fall  meeting.  Vacancies  on  the  Council  will  be  filled  in  cases  where  the 
remaining  term  is  at  least  1-1/2  years.  All  appointments  to  Council  will  be  made  by  the 
Public  Printer  after  consideration  of  recommendations  from  Council,  library  associations  and 


14 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Others  as  deemed  appropriate  by  the  Public  Printer.  Members  may  be  appointed  for 
additional  terms. 

Each  Fall,  members  of  the  Depository  Library  Council  shall  select  a  Chair-elect  of 
Council.  The  Chair-elect  shall  assume  the  office  of  Chair  following  the  next  Spring  meeting. 
Members  of  Council  may  serve  more  than  one  term  as  Chair.  The  Chair  shall  preside  over 
all  meetings  of  Council,  shall  be  responsible  for  the  agendas  for  the  Fall  and  Spring  meetings, 
shall  appoint  such  committees  as  necessary  to  carry  out  the  duties  of  Council,  and  shall  serve 
as  direct  liaison  between  Council  and  the  Public  Printer.  In  the  absence  of  the  Chair,  these 
duties  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  Chair-elect  or  in  absence  of  the  Chair-elect  by  a  designate 
appointed  by  the  Chair. 

At  the  Spring  meeting,  members  of  the  Depository  Library  Council  shall  elect  a 
Secretary  of  Council.  The  Secretary  shall  assume  office  prior  to  the  Fall  meeting  of  Council. 
The  Secretary  may  serve  more  than  one  term  of  office.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the 
Secretary  to  prepare  a  summary  report  of  each  meeting  for  publication  in  Administrative 
Notes  and  posting  on  the  Federal  Depository  Library  Bulletin  Board.  The  Secretary  shall 
handle  correspondence  and  other  record  keeping  at  the  request  of  the  Chair.  In  the  absence 
of  the  Secretary,  the  Chair  shall  appoint  a  member  of  Council  to  serve  in  that  capacity. 

Notice  of  official  meetings  of  the  Depository  Library  Council  shall  be  published  in  the 
Federal  Register  and  mailed  to  members  of  Council  at  least  30  days  prior  to  the  meeting  date. 
All  such  meetings  will  be  open  to  the  public. 

This  document  may  be  modified  by  the  Public  Printer  or  by  a  majority  vote  of  Council. 


15 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Report  on  Communications  Committee  Meeting,  April  1993 

Members  of  the  committee  are  Carol  Gordon,  Sandy  Morton-Schwalb,  Jack  Sulzer,  and 
John  Weiner.  We  held  a  meeting  during  the  Federal  Depository  Users  meeting  on  April  22 
in  order  for  members  of  the  depository  community  who  were  attending  the  meeting  to  share 
their  thoughts  on  a  number  of  communications  issues.  We  were  very  pleased  with  the  large 
turn-out  for  this  session,  which  was  not  part  of  the  formal  proceedings  of  the  users  meeting. 
In  addition,  we  found  the  comments  and  questions  thoughtful  and  thought-provoking. 

The  committee  posed  four  questions,  which  had  been  publicized  in  advance  in  a  memo  to 
you  on  January  14,  Administrative  Notes,  Documents  to  the  People  as  well  as  posted  on  the 
listserv  GOVDOC-L.  Those  questions  were: 

  How  can  the  GPO  and  the  Depository  Library  community  communicate  efficiently 
on  operations  issues  and  problems  affecting  depository  libraries? 

  How  can  the  Depository  Library  Council  and  the  depository  library  community 
best  communicate? 

  Is  there  a  mechanism  for  the  depository  library  community  to  have  input  to  the 
agendas  and  lists  of  discussion  issues  for  the  Federal  Depository  Conference  and 
the  Inter-Agency  Depository  Seminar? 

  Is  there  a  systematic  way  for  agencies  and  the  depository  community  to 
communicate  with  one  another? 

Members  of  the  committee  will  be  discussing  the  outcomes  of  the  April  22  meeting  with 
the  rest  of  Council,  GPO  staff,  and  observers  during  the  Depository  Library  Council  meeting. 
May  17-18.  What  follows,  briefly,  are  some  of  the  points  raised  by  audience  members 
during  the  "open  forum." 

Question  1)  Operational  issues  were  discussed.  How  are  they  being  handled?  The  old 
council  format  of  an  open  forum  addressed  these  issues.    One  way  to  get  these  issues 
examined  is  through  the  operations  subgroup  of  GODORT.  These  issues  can  also  be 
addressed  on  GOVDOC-L,  through  a  column  in  Administrative  Notes,  Documents  to  the 
People,  etc.  All  vehicles  should  be  examined.  Can't  rely  completely  on  Internet,  since  not 
all  libraries  are  "plugged  in."  This  also  applies  to  GPO,  which  is  not  on  the  Internet,  and 
may  not  know  about  the  various  discussions  of  operational  issues  on  GOVDOC-L.  Perhaps 
operational  issues/problems  could  be  posted  on  the  GPO  bulletin  board  and  make  it 
interactive. 

Administrative  Notes  is  a  useful  tool.  It  should  be  mailed  directly  to  depository 
librarians  rather  than  in  shipments.  This  avoids  delays  in  receiving.  There  was  concern 
raised  about  lack  of  proper  indexing  of  Administrative  Notes,  which  makes  accessing  articles 
difficult. 

It  was  noted  that  many  librarians  do  not  feel  they  are  getting  a  direct  response  from  GPO 


16 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


to  their  Inquiry  Forms. 

Question  2)  It  was  suggested  that  the  spring  council  meeting  be  held  in  conjunction  with 
the  annual  users  meeting  (April).  Divide  depositories  geographically  into  15  regions  and 
assign  each  council  member  a  region  to  monitor.  The  community  needs  to  know  what  the 
council  is  doing.  What  does  the  council  need  to  know  from  the  librarians?  Move  the  council 
meetings  around  the  country  to  get  more  librarians  to  attend.  Get  away  from  the  notion  of 
inside/outside  the  Beltway.  Should  council  have  its  own  newsletter? 

There  is  so  much  information  to  digest.  Is  there  some  way  to  distill  and  condense  the 
material?  However,  librarians  have  a  responsibility  to  learn  about  these  many  issues  which 
affect  them  and  their  institutions.  The  community  needs  to  know  which  of  the  many 
legislative/regulatory  initiatives  best  serves  the  libraries'  interests  in  order  to  lend  support  or 
express  opposition  in  a  more  unified  manner. 

The  notion  of  having  a  separate  group  (some  have  suggested  a  "friends"  organization)  to 
support  depository  concerns.  There. were  voices  heard  in  support  as  well  as  opposition. 
Some  felt  there  are  already  enough  advocacy  groups  and  members  of  the  community  can't 
afford  the  time  to  join  another  and  attend  more  meetings.  The  other  side  said  that  the  council 
should  encourage  an  independent  organization  for  the  depository  community  to  represent  their 
specific  concerns  and  interests,  and  don't  leave  this  responsibility  to  the  council  or  GPO.  An 
independent  group  could  also  get  those  documents  librarians  in  who  are  not  ALA/GODORT 
members. 

The  concern  was  raised  that  fewer  working  documents  librarians  are  being  appointed  to 
council  and  that  the  DLC  is  becoming  a  "dinosaur." 

Question  3)  Need  to  take  information  back  to  states  for  feedback.  Members  of  the 
community,  and/or  those  who  are  part  of  a  new  depository  library  group,  could  help  to 
organize  the  conference.  Needs  a  more  varied  format,  and  perhaps  there  needs  to  be 
different  "tiers."  Some  sessions  help  beginners  and  others  can  be  geared  to  more  seasoned 
individuals.  Make  it  a  requirement  (as  part  of  being  a  depository)  that  librarians  must  attend 
a  users  meeting  at  least  once  every  five  years  and  put  more  "teeth"  into  the  letter  from  GPO 
to  library  directors.  Word  such  a  letter  to  (diplomatically)  insist  that  the  depositories  comply 
as  part  of  their  obligation. 

It  was  noted  that  it  is  not  always  easy  to  get  to  these  meetings.  Not  everyone  can  "come 
to  Mecca."  It  is  the  responsibility  of  those  attending  these  meetings  to  "spread  the  word" 
back  home,  through  local  networks,  for  instance. 

GPO/JCP/agencies/librarians  all  have  obligations  here.  All  of  the  parties  have 
somehow  gotten  around  those  responsibilities.  Cooperation  is  needed.  "Depositories  are  a 
responsibility  not  a  right. " 

Question  4)  Help  to  further  the  work  of  the  Agency  Liaison  Program.  Can  GPO 
provide  a  list  of  individuals  within  agencies  whom  librarians  can  contact  about  depository 
issues?  Is  such  a  list  available?  Get  list  of  depository  libraries  into  the  hands  of  agency 
information  managers;  send  such  a  list  to  information  resource  managers  electronically.  Is 

17 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


there  contact  between  federal  publishers  and  public  information  officers?  (The  answer  seemed 
to  be  no,  there  is  not). 

Urge  agency  people  who  deal  with  depository  issues/publishers,  etc.,  to  attend  the  users 
conference  and  interact  with  members  of  the  depository  community  .  Put  an  announcement 
about  the  users  meeting  in  the  Federal  Register.  There  was  a  question  as  to  whether  it  is 
posted  there  now?) 

Some  final  comments  included: 

  Evident  that  people  are  interested  in  issue  of  communication  by  the  turnout  at  this 
particular  meeting  (approximately  150,  more  than  1/2  of  the  conference 
attendees). 

  It  would  be  helpful  for  community  to  see  organizational  chart  of  GPO. 

  Be  persistent  with  agencies:  write,  call,  stay  in  touch. 

  Provide  feedback  to  GPO  on  users  meeting  by  filling  out  meeting  evaluation  form. 


Alternatives  for  Restructuring 
The  Depository  Library  Program 

Preface 

Events  of  recent  years,  coupled  with  many  long-standing  problems  within  the  Depository 
Library  Program  (DLP)  have  necessitated  an  examination  of  the  Program  and  the  various 
alternatives  for  its  restructuring.  The  Depository  Library  Council  to  the  Public  Printer 
explored  many  of  these  issues  at  their  Fall  1992  advisory  meeting.  Following  that  meeting, 
the  assumptions,  ideas,  and  suggestions  they  discussed  were  compiled  into  the  following 
document. 

While  stopping  short  of  making  actual  recommendations,  the  Depository  Library  Council 
presents  a  number  of  options  that  could  eventually  be  developed  into  detailed  proposals  for 
restructuring  the  DLP.  However,  before  that  can  take  place,  it  is  essential  that  librarians  and 
other  interested  stakeholders  in  the  DLP  have  an  opportunity  to  comment  on  these  alternatives 
and  their  potential  impact  on  the  Program. 

Toward  that  end.  Council  urges  anyone  with  an  interest  in  the  Depository  Library 
Program  to  review  the  following  document  and  to  provide  Council  with  their  comments  and 
observations.  In  addition,  Council  urges  any  group  or  organization  that  would  like  to  use  this 
report  as  a  basis  of  discussion  for  restructuring  the  DLP  to  feel  free  to  edit  or  refine  the 
document  to  suit  their  needs.  If  specific  recommendations  or  reports  emerge  from  their 


18 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


discussions,  Council  asks  that  copies  of  those  documents  be  made  available  to  as  wide  an 
audience  as  possible  so  that  they  too,  can  serve  as  the  basis  of  future  discussions. 

Comments  and  suggestions  regarding  "Alternatives  for  Restructuring  the  Depository 
Library  Program"  should  be  sent  to: 

Mr.  Jack  Sulzer 

Head,  General  Reference  Section 
Pennsylvania  State  University 
E108  Pattee  Library 
University  Park  PA  16802 


Alternatives  for  Restructuring 
The  Depository  Library  Program 

A  Report  to  the  Superintendent  of  Documents  and  the  Public  Printer 
from  the  Depository  Library  Council 
April  1993 

Discussion  Draft 
June  14,  1993 


Contents 


I.  History  and  Objectives  of  the  Depository  Library  Program 
n.  Assiunptions 


Assumption  1: 


Assumption  2: 


A  Depository  Library  Program  should  and  will  continue  to  be  a  vital  link 
between  the  citizens  and  the  agencies  of  American  government  needing 
to  distribute  information. 

As  currently  structured,  the  Depository  Library  Program  is  floundering 
so  badly  that  its  very  existence  is  threatened.  The  Depository  Library 
Council  believes  that  significant  restructuring  of  the  Program  is  needed 
to  ensure  its  future  viability  and  to  ensure  that  it  will  continue  to  meet 
the  objectives  for  which  it  was  established. 


Assumption  3:  The  burdens  on  the  Regional  Libraries  are  causing  a  breakdown  in  the 
system.  The  Depository  Library  Council  believes  that  it  may  not  be 
necessary  for  52  regionals  to  keep  everything  in  perpetuity,  and  that 
other  aspects  of  the  regionals'  responsibilities  may  need  to  be  re- 
examined. 


19 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Assumption  4:   The  cost  of  running  the  program  is  increasing  faster  than  the 

willingness/ability  of  Congress  to  provide  the  funds.  If  this  pattern 
continues,  the  program  needs  to  find  ways  to  leverage  its  resources. 

Assumption  5:  The  Depository  Library  Program  will  contain  both  print  and  electronic 
information  for  the  foreseeable  future. 

Assumption  6:   As  a  result  of  the  increased  availability  of  electronic  information  via  the 
INTERNET  and  other  sources,  user  expectations  concerning  access  to  all 
forms  of  information  will  change  and  increase. 

Assumption  7:  Information  professionals,  in  their  roles  as  intermediaries,  will  continue 
to  be  a  key  part  of  the  program. 

Assumption  8:   In  the  new  information  environment,  there  will  be  many  more  diverse 
points  of  access  to  information.  The  traditional  library  will  be  one 
centralized  place  for  information,  but  there  will  be  others  as  well. 

Assumption  9:  New  laws,  regulations,  and  information  systems,  and  related  changes  in 
how  government  information  is  collected,  maintained,  and  disseminated 
will  have  a  major  impact  on  the  Depository  Library  Program. 

Assumption  10:  Some  libraries  will  be  partners  in  the  change;  some  will  not. 

in.  Alternative  Scenarios  for  a  Restructured  Program 

A.  The  ARL  ModelMultiple  Service  Levels 

B.  The  Direct  Support  Model 

C.  A  National  Collection  of  Last  Resort 

D.  A  Network  of  Super-Regionals 

E.  A  System  of  Electronic  Depositories  or  Federal  Electronic  Distribution  Sites 
(FEDS) 

F.  Require  libraries  to  meet  minimum  technical  guidelines  to  be  full  participants  in  the 
system.  Libraries  unable  to  meet  the  guidelines  could  continue  to  receive  core 
collection  publications  but  not  receive  electronic  data  or  other  publications  beyond 
the  core. 

G.  A  System  of  Subject-Based  Regionals  Built  on  Existing  Strengths 

H.  Restructure  the  Depository  program  to  recognize  a  new  role  when  electronic 
government  information  comes  through  a  network  or  a  single  point  of  access,  such 
as  through  the  GPO  Gateway /Windo.  Recognize  that  the  DLP  creates  a  foundation 


20 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

for  building  electronic  dissemination  systems  and  that  it  can  be  a  primary  element  in 
an  active  Federal  information  dissemination  program. 

I.      Rename  the  program  to  recognize  changes  brought  on  by  the  era  of  electronic 
information. 

J.     Downsize  the  program  to  meet  budgetary  constraints. 


I.  History  and  Objectives  of  the  Depository  Library  Program 

A.  History  of  the  Depository  Program 

The  Depository  Library  Program  (DLP)  is  a  national  resource  network  designed  to 
ensure  free  public  access  to  government  produced  and  published  information.  The 
commitment  to  public  access  to  government  information  can  be  traced  back  to  1857  when  it 
was  resolved  that  printed  documents  should  be  made  available  to  the  public  through  official 
sources.  In  1859,  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior  was  given  the  statutory  authority  and 
responsibility  to  distribute  all  books  (except  those  earmarked  for  the  special  use  of  Congress 
or  Executive  Departments)  printed  or  purchased  for  the  use  of  the  Federal  government.  Ten 
years  later,  the  Superintendent  of  Public  Documents  was  created  within  the  Department  of  the 
Interior  and  charged  with  the  custody  of  government  publications  and  their 
distribution. 

Through  the  Printing  Act  of  1895,  the  Superintendent  of  Public  Documents  was  renamed 
the  Superintendent  of  Documents  and  transferred  from  the  Interior  Department  to  the 
Government  Printing  Office  (GPO),  which  had  been  established  in  1860.  The  Superintendent 
of  Documents  was  given  authority  for  the  distribution  and  sale  of  government  documents  as 
well  as  for  maintaining  the  Depository  Library  Program.  In  addition,  the  Printing  Act  of 
1895  laid  the  groundwork  for  bibliographic  control  over  government  information  and 
expanded  the  number  of  libraries  eligible  to  participate  in  the  Program.  The  Depository 
Library  Act  of  1962  established  the  network  of  Regional  Libraries  and  further  increased  the 
potential  number  of  depository  libraries.  It  also  expanded  the  number  of  categories  of 
publications  available  for  depository  distribution.  Efforts  to  reorganize  the  Government 
Printing  Office  and  the  Depository  Library  Program  in  1979  were  unsuccessful. 

While  the  law  has  undergone  several  revisions  over  the  years,  the  guiding  principles  of 
the  Program  have  remained  constant: 

1)  with  certain  specified  exemptions,  all  government  publications  shall  be  made  available 
to  depository  libraries; 

2)  depository  libraries  shall  be  located  in  each  State  and  congressional  district  in  order  to 
make  government  publications  widely  available;  and 

3)  these  government  publications  shall  be  available  for  the  free  use  of  the  general  public. 


21 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Historically,  the  Federal  government  and  the  depository  library  community  have  shared 
equitably  the  costs  associated  with  providing  free  public  access  to  government  information. 

In  recent  years  however,  the  trend  has  been  for  depository  libraries  to  absorb  more  of  the 
cost  of  providing  citizens  with  government  produced  information.  During  the  past  decade, 
GPO's  budget  has  remained  relatively  constant  while  the  cost  of  producing  and  distributing 
the  information  has  skyrocketed.  At  the  same  time,  government  information  in  electronic 
formats,  such  as  CD-ROM,  have  placed  additional  burdens  on  the  GPO.  As  a  result, 
libraries  have  had  to  take  on  the  additional  expense  of  locating  and  acquiring  fugitive  Federal 
documents  as  well  as  the  costs  associated  with  computer/CD-ROM  workstations,  software, 
and  technical  support. 

Consequently,  the  Depository  Library  Program  is  currently  faced  with  two  separate,  but 
interrelated  needs.  First,  GPO's  funding  must  be  increased  to  adequately  fulfill  the  goals  of 
the  Depository  Library  Program.  GPO  must  exert  its  potential  to  be  the  primary  information 
packager  for  the  Federal  government.  Second,  the  depository  library  system  must  be 
reorganized  in  a  manner  that  will  relieve  some  of  the  financial  overhead  from  the  program, 
while  at  the  same  time  continuing  to  provide  the  American  public  with  ready  access  to 
government  information.  The  focus  of  this  paper  will  be  to  document  and  explore  the 
problems  associated  with  the  existing  structure  of  the  DLP  and  to  offer  some  alternatives  and 
strategies  for  its  reorganization. 

B.  Values  &  Objectives  of  the  Program 

Describing  the  Depository  Library  Program,  former  Public  Printer  Danford  L.  Sawyer 
commented  that  countless  Americans  of  all  ages  are  using  materials  distributed  through  the 
DLP.  He  observed  that  it  is  one  of  the  least  recognized  and  most  unique  resources  of  our 
American  public.  No  other  nation  in  the  world,  he  argued,  has  anything  comparable  in  scope 
or  in  freedom  of  public  access.'  Indeed,  it  is  hard  to  imagine  any  other  program  within  the 
Federal  government  that  is  able  to  reach  more  Americans  in  such  an  economic  manner. 

Consisting  of  over  1400  libraries  throughout  the  country,  the  DLP  is  predicated  on  the 
notion  that  all  U.S.  Federal  documentsregardless  of  content  or  formatshould  be  readily 
available  to  the  American  people.  In  addition,  the  Depository  Library  Program  provides  an 
effective,  low  cost  mechanism  for  Federal  agencies  to  disseminate  government  information  to 
virtually  every  congressional  district  in  the  United  States.  The  Program  is  also  a 
supplemental  source  of  government  information  for  private  sector  industries  to  index, 
abstract,  and  enhance  for  the  betterment  of  both  libraries  and  the  information-using  public. 

The  result  of  these  two  factors  is  considerable.  Through  the  distribution  of  all  types  and 
levels  of  government  publications,  the  DLP  has  consistently  met  the  research  and 
informational  needs  of  the  American  public.  Indeed,  it  is  the  diverse  needs  of  the  end-user 
that  drives  the  Program  and  makes  it  a  vital  source  of  information  for  citizens  nationwide. 
Small  businesses  use  census  data;  farmers  use  climatological  data;  and  anyone  may  use  legal 


'  "Public  Printer  Supports  Depository  Library  Program,"  Public  Documents  Highlights,  48/49  (October/December  1981);  1 

22 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


and  regulatory  information.  This  program  is  vital  to  the  economy  insofar  as  the  engine  of  the 
economy  is  the  small  businessman,  farmer,  or  entrepreneur.  At  the  same  time,  by  ensuring 
public  access  to  agency-produced  information,  the  DLP  has  also  helped  to  facilitate  the 
accountability  and  openness  of  the  Federal  government. 

Finally,  the  DLP  has  significantly  enhanced  the  collections  of  depository  libraries  and 
consequently  their  ability  to  serve  the  public.  In  return,  depository  libraries  invest 
considerable  time,  money  and  staff  to  receive,  process,  house,  preserve  and  service  the 
material.  Indeed,  according  to  the  latest  information  available,  the  52  regional  depository 
libraries  alone  are  spending  more  money  to  support  their  depository  collections  than  the 
Federal  government  is  to  run  the  entire  program.  Unfortunately,  libraries  are  currently 
facing  the  same  fiscal  restraints  as  the  Federal  government  and  are  unable  to  continue  the 
status  quo.  It  is  imperative  that  the  equitable  balance  that  once  existed  between  libraries  and 
the  Federal  government  for  supporting  the  Depository  Library  Program  be  re-established. 

n.  Assumptions 

In  considering  the  possible  restructuring  of  the  Depository  Library  Program,  members  of 
the  Depository  Library  Council  made  several  assumptions. 

Assumption  1:     A  Depository  Library  Program  sliould  and  will  continue  to  be  a  vital 
link  between  the  citizens  and  the  agencies  of  American  government. 

Central  to  the  basic  program  objectives  of  most  Federal  agencies  is  the  provision  of 
government  information  to  the  public,  and  for  some  agencies  information  dissemination  is 
their  principal  mission.  Most  agencies  that  are  heavily  involved  in  information  dissemination 
rely  on  the  depository  library  system  as  one  of  several  mechanisms  for  making  their 
information  available  to  the  public;  other  mechanisms  have  historically  included  the 
Government  Printing  Office's  document  sales  service,  the  Commerce  Department's  National 
Technical  Information  Service,  private  contractors,  and  agency  programs  to  distribute  their 
own  products  or  to  maintain  information  centers,  bulletin  boards,  and  other  dissemination 
services. 

Among  all  mechanisms,  however,  the  depository  library  system  is  unique,  in  that  it 
embodies  the  obligation  of  a  democracy  to  keep  all  its  citizens  informed.  In  the  spirit  of  its 
mission,  it  insures  that  agencies  have  an  effective  means  of  disseminating  their  information, 
and  that  the  public  has  access  to  it  regardless  of  economic  status.  In  many  cases  it  represents 
not  only  the  primary,  but  also  the  only  means  that  many  citizens  have  of  gaining  access  to  the 
vast  amount  of  government  information.  It  also  provides  an  important  link  between  agencies 
and  their  user  communities. 

In  addition  to  serving  as  a  primary  disseminator,  the  depository  library  system  satisfies 
the  requirement  for  long-term  availability,  serving  as  an  "active  archive"  to  which  agencies 
can  send  their  clients  for  information  products  no  longer  in  production  or  inventory. 

As  agencies  deemphasize  traditional  paper  and  film  in  favor  of  more  efficient  and,  over 


23 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

time,  less  expensive  electronic  information  products  and  services,  they  will  continue  to  need  a 
nationwide  library  system  through  which  government  information,  current  and  historical, 
remains  physically,  financially,  and  technologically  accessible  to  the  general  public.  As  the 
traditional  depository  library  system  adapts  to  these  changes,  agencies  will  require  more 
feedback  from  libraries  than  they  have  historically  received  concerning  who  their  library 
clients  are  and  how  these  changes  will  affect  them. 

Assumption  2:     As  currently  structured,  the  Depository  Library  Program  is 

floundering  so  badly  that  its  very  existence  is  threatened.  The 
Depository  Library  Council  believes  that  significant  restructuring  of 
the  Program  is  needed  to  ensure  its  future  viability  and  to  ensure  that 
it  will  continue  to  meet  the  objectives  for  which  it  was  established. 

By  any  measure,  the  current  structure  of  the  Depository  Library  system  is  inadequate, 
inefficient,  and  ineffective.  The  introduction  of  electronic  products  and  services  into  the 
program  has  exacerbated  already  existing  problems,  and  the  failure  to  develop  an  online 
service  as  part  of  the  program  has  made  GPO  largely  irrelevant  for  agencies  seeking  to 
disseminate  information  in  that  manner.^  As  a  result  of  these  problems,  neither  the 
information  dissemination  needs  of  government  agencies  nor  the  information  needs  of  the 
public  are  being  met. 

For  over  30  years,  library  literature  has  called  for  the  restructuring  of  the  DLP.  More 
recently,  the  Government  Documents  Roundtable  of  the  American  Library  Association 
(GODORT),  the  Depository  Library  Council,  and  the  GPO  itself  have  all  suggested 
alternatives  for  a  revitalized  program.  While  no  action  has  been  taken  on  any  of  these 
proposals,  preliminary  agendas  from  the  103rd  Congress  indicate  that  now  may  be  the  ideal 
time  for  legislative  reform. 

To  be  more  specific,  in  1988,  Peter  Hernon  and  Charles  McClure,  long  time  observers 
and  critics  of  the  Depository  Library  Program,  identified  several  weaknesses  within  the 
existing  program: 

  The  DLP  is  not  a  formal  interlocking  network  of  libraries;  instead  it  is  a  diverse 
assortment  of  libraries  with  different  goals  and  objectives  and  no  coordinated 
collection  development. 

  The  geographic  distribution  of  Depository  Libraries  creates  an  abundance  of  libraries 
in  some  areas  of  the  country  but  leaves  a  shortage  in  other  areas. 

  Neither  the  program  itself  nor  the  participating  libraries  have  made  as  effective  use  of 
the  new  technologies  for  improved  service  as  they  could  have, 

  Selection  of  "high  quality"  vs.  "low  quality"  documents  is  difficult  because  of  item 


^  We  understand  that  when  the  National  Technical  Information  Service  announced  its  bulletin  board,  many  agencies 
expressed  interest  in  using  the  system  as  a  means  of  public  access,  thus  bypassing  GPO  and  the  Depository  Library  Program. 


24 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

number  groupings. 

  Member  libraries  exercise  limited  direction  and  control  over  the  Depository  program. 

  There  is  frequently  a  lack  of  adequate  support  from  host  institutions  in  terms  of 
personnel,  physical  facilities,  and  budget. 

  Poorly  trained  staff  frequently  service  the  Depository  collection. 

  Substantial  differences  exist  in  the  quality  of  reference  and  referral  services  among 
Depository  Libraries. 

  Variations  exist  among  Regional  libraries  concerning  the  provision  of  interlibrary  loan, 
reference  service,  and  assistance  to  Depository  Libraries  under  their  jurisdiction. 

  Many  libraries  provide  only  limited  bibliographic  control  over  their  Depository 
publications.^ 

The  development  of  new  technologies  has  exacerbated  the  problems  in  many  of  these 
areas.  For  example,  dissemination  of  information  in  electronic  formats  has  necessitated  the 
purchase  of  computerized  workstations  complete  with  CD-ROM  drives,  modems,  and 
software.  Additionally,  staff's  ability  (or  inability)  to  access  digital  information  has  widened 
the  differences  that  already  existed  in  the  quality  of  reference/referral  services  offered  by 
Depositories.  New  technologies  have  also  exposed  the  woeful  lack  of  training  and  support 
that  Depository  Libraries  receive  from  Federal  agencies. 

Assumption  3:     The  burdens  on  the  Regional  Libraries  are  causing  a  breakdown  in  the 
system.  The  Depository  Library  Council  believes  that  it  may  not  be 
necessary  for  52  regionals  to  keep  everything  in  perpetuity,  and  that 
other  aspects  of  the  regionals'  responsibilities  may  need  to  be  re- 
examined. 

The  current  "Regional  Depository  Library  System"  was  created  by  the  Depository 
Library  Act  of  1962.  This  act  allows  a  maximum  of  two  Depository  Libraries  per  state  to  be 
designated  Regional  Depositories,  or  "Regionals. "  In  addition  to  the  obligations  required  of 
all  Depositories,  the  Regionals  have  the  following  additional  responsibilities: 

1.  Permanently  retain  all  (100%)  of  government  publications  distributed  through  the 
Depository  Library  Program.  (Selective  Depositories  have  only  a  minimum  five-year 
retention  period,  and  they  may  select  any  percentage  of  publications  distributed). 

2.  Attempt  to  complete  their  retrospective  collections  of  Federal  government  publications 
by  means  of  purchase,  exchange,  or  gift. 


^  Peter  Hernon  and  Charles  McClure,  Public  Access  to  Government  Information:  Issues,  Trends,  and  Strategies  (Norwood, 
NJ:  Ablex  Publishing  Corp.,  1988),  367-69. 

25 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

3.  Permit  Selective  Depositories  to  dispose  of  unwanted  government  publications,  after 
reviewing  disposal  lists  submitted  by  the  Selectives.  Regionals  screen  the  lists  in 
order  to  add  to  their  own  collections  and  to  ensure  future  availability  of  those  titles  in 
their  region.  Regionals  must  also  make  sure  that  the  publications  on  the  lists  are 
offered  to  other  libraries  in  the  area  before  being  discarded. 

4.  Provide  interlibrary  loan  and  reference  service  based  on  their  Regional  collection  to  all 
Depository  and  non-Depository  Libraries  in  their  region. 

5.  Contribute  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Depository  network  in  their  region  through 
workshops,  training  sessions,  and  consultive  services  (including  designation  and 
termination  of  Selective  Depositories). 

6.  Take  an  active  part  in  the  GPO  Depository  inspection  process,  preferably  by 
accompanying  Library  Inspectors  on  their  visits. 

Citing  these  extra  responsibilities,  one  library  recently  relinquished  its  Regional  status, 
and  others  are  seriously  considering  doing  so.  They  can  no  longer  accept  the  level  of  burden 
placed  upon  them.  A  number  of  factors  have  contributed  to  this  situation  and  have  led  to 
major  discrepancies  in  the  ability  of  Regionals  to  perform  their  additional  responsibilities. 

One  of  the  factors  is  the  geographic  distribution  of  Depository  Libraries.  Since  the 
number  of  Depositories  per  state  varies  widely,  and  since  most  states  have  only  one 
designated  Regional  (that  in  some  cases  is  responsible  for  other  states  as  well),  there  is  a 
severe  imbalance  in  the  ratio  of  Selectives  being  served  by  the  51  Regionals.  As  a  result, 
inequities  range  from  nine  out  of  51  Regionals  serving  40%  of  all  Depositories  to  nine 
Regionals  serving  6%  of  the  libraries  in  the  Depository  system.  Two  Regionals  (the 
California  and  New  York  state  libraries)  alone  are  responsible  for  14%  of  all  Selective 
Depositories. 

Another  factor  affecting  the  Regionals'  ability  to  serve  Selective  Depositories  within  their 
region  is  the  cost  of  being  a  Regional  Depository.  The  estimated  annual  cost  per  Regional 
library  to  provide  the  required  services  and  maintenance  of  its  Federal  document  collection  in 
1991  was  approximately  $500,000;  the  annual  cost  for  all  Regionals  therefore  is  about 
$25,500,000,  more  than  the  total  GPO  budget  for  the  Depository  Library  Program.'*  Most 
Regionals  do  not  have  adequate  resources  ~  staff,  space,  equipment,  and  funding  for  training, 
travel,  indexes,  collection  development,  and  telecommunications  ~  to  carry  out  all  of  their 
obligations  under  the  law.  Depository  publications  may  come  to  the  library  free  of  charge, 
but  considering  GPO's  estimate  of  $100,000^  for  the  value  of  documents  received  annually  by 
the  Regionals,  the  Regionals  have  to  spend  five  times  as  much  as  their  collection  is  worth  in 
order  to  fulfil  their  responsibilities. 


*  U.S.  Congress,  Joint  Committee  on  Printing,  "Government  Information  as  a  Public  Asset",  102nd  Cong.,  1st  sess.,  April 
25,  1991,  24-25,  (hereinafter  ciated  as  "Government  information  as  a  Public  Asset"). 

'  Cite 


26 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


These  problems  are  compounded  by  the  increase  in  electronic  government  information 
being  distributed  through  the  Depository  Library  Program.  Will  Regionals  be  expected  to 
provide  the  same  level  of  services  for  government  information  distributed  in  CD-ROM,  online 
databases,  and  via  satellite  transmission  that  they  now  do  for  paper  and  microfiche  formats  ~ 
ensuring  all  Depository  items  are  available  and  accessible  within  their  region?  Very  few 
Regionals,  if  any,  are  equipped  to  provide  training,  service,  and  access  to  all  electronic 
Depository  information  as  part  of  their  required  reference  and  interlibrary  loan  service  to 
libraries  in  their  region. 

Assumption  4:     The  cost  of  running  the  program  is  increasing  faster  than  the 

willingness/ability  of  Congress  to  provide  the  funds.  If  this  pattern 
continues,  the  program  needs  to  find  ways  to  leverage  its  resources. 

Costs  for  the  Depository  Library  Program  come  out  of  the  Salaries  and  Expenses  (S&E) 
portion  of  GPO's  annual  appropriation.  Approximately  83.4%  of  the  S&E  appropriation 
funds  this  program.  The  other  16.6%  fund  three  other  programs.  In  FY  1992  GPO  received 
just  over  $27  million  for  these  four  programs.  While  it  is  true  that  the  S&E  funding  went  up 
by  $1.5  million  in  FY  1991  and  by  $1.3  million  in  FY  1992,  the  effects  of  inflation  over  time 
have  significantly  reduced  the  purchasing  power  of  the  S&E  dollars. 

In  1980  the  S&E  appropriation  was  $23.2  million.  By  1992  it  had  increased  $3.9  million 
to  $27.1  million.  This  amount,  representing  a  nominal  16.8%  increase,  has  the  buying  power 
of  13.5  million  1983  dollars  -  a  net  loss  of  50.2%  in  real  terms.  The  depository  library 
portion  of  the  S&E  appropriation  sustained  an  even  greater  loss  in  purchasing  power  (50.4%). 
In  FY  1980,  GPO  had  $17.1  million  for  depository  library  distribution;  in  FY  1992,  GPO 
had  $22.6  million.  What  appears  to  be  $5.5  million  in  growth,  when  adjusted  for  inflation, 
represents  purchasing  power  of  $11.2  million  in  FY  1983  dollars,^  a  loss  of  $5.9  million  in 
constant  (1983)  dollars. 

It  is  also  important  to  note  that  during  this  same  time  period,  GPO  added  50  new 
libraries  to  the  program,  thereby  requiring  GPO  to  serve  more  libraries  with  less  money. 

Assumption  5:     The  Depository  Library  Program  will  contain  both  print  and  electronic 
information  for  the  foreseeable  future. 

Over  the  last  25  years,  the  Depository  Library  Program  has  witnessed  changes  to  the 
formats  which  are  distributed  by  the  Government  Printing  Office  to  libraries.  Once  almost 
exclusively  a  print-based  program,  some  sets  began  to  be  distributed  in  microform  in  the  late 
1960's  and  early  1970' s.  Now,  a  substantial  part  of  the  total  distribution  is  made  in 
microform.  In  the  meantime,  many  agencies  are  creating  information  products  in  electronic 
form,  and  the  need  to  distribute  that  information  through  the  program  has  become  evident. 
Moreover,  as  the  public  has  become  more  computer  literate,  it  is  requesting  access  to  certain 
products  in  an  online  form.  Among  the  most  conspicuous  requests  for  online  versions  of 


  Cite. 


27 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


existing  products  are  the  requests  for  an  online  Congressional  Record  and  an  online  Federal 
Register.  The  Toxic  Release  Inventory  is  a  popular  product,  available  online  from  the 
National  Library  of  Medicine,  not  from  GPO,  and  not  through  the  Depository  Library 
Program. 

Response  by  GPO  to  the  need  to  distribute  electronic  information  has  been  tentative  and 
hesitant  at  best,  rather  than  assertive  and  forward  looking.  Consistent  with  its  past  practices, 
GPO  has  been  willing  to  distribute  information  products  on  disk  through  the  Depository 
program.  Examples  include  the  National  Trade  Data  Bank,  the  Toxic  Release  Inventory,  and 
several  others.  However,  GPO  has  been  reluctant  to  explore  bulletin  boards  and  other  online 
technology  to  make  online  information  more  readily  available.  Nonetheless,  the  Depository 
Library  Council  believes  that  the  trend  toward  electronic  distribution  is  well  established  and 
will  grow  rather  than  shrink.  As  a  result,  we  believe  that  for  the  foreseeable  future,  the 
program  ~  if  it  survives  at  all  -  will  have  to  combine  access  to  information  in  many  forms, 
some  print,  some  on  disk,  and  some  electronic  online. 

Some  materials  will  or  should  stay  in  print  (and  some  should  be  available  in  both  print 
form  and  electronic  form).  Among  them  are  the  core  materials  (Congressional  Record,  and 
Federal  Register,  etc.)  that  are  distributed  widely  and  read  closely  so  that  citizens  can  stay 
abreast  of  the  actions  and  activities  of  their  government.  These  materials  are  of  such  vital 
importance  to  our  democratic  society  that  access  to  them  should  not  be  restricted  to  those  who 
have  access  to  a  computer.  Also  included  in  the  list  of  materials  that  should  remain  in  print 
are  those  that  are  intended  to  be  read  cover  to  cover,  rather  than  merely  checked  as  a 
reference.  These  include  booklets,  reports  to  consumers,  brochures,  etc.  People  read  faster 
from  paper  than  from  screens.  Similarly,  reports  and  items  containing  complex  material 
should  also,  in  many  cases,  be  distributed  in  print,  because  they  are  more  intelligible  when 
viewed  in  the  context  of  a  whole  document  rather  than  as  isolated  screens.  Finally,  some 
materials  require  browsing.  Large  amounts  of  text  cannot  be  browsed  easily  from  a  computer 
file. 

On  the  other  hand,  numeric  data  and  other  materials  are  often  intended  to  be  used  as 
computer  files,  and  they  must  be  published  electronically.  In  such  cases,  paper  publication  is 
not  only  unnecessary,  it  is  also  wasteful.  Software  to  support  such  statistical  applications  is 
already  readily  available,  but  documentation  of  the  data  on  tape  or  on  CD-ROM  is  needed  so 
that  data  can  be  extracted  and  downloaded  as  needed. 

Furthermore,  dynamic  databases  such  as  economic  statistics  need  to  be  updated  regularly, 
and  must  be  available  online  so  that  people  can  have  access  to  the  latest  data.  Both  CD-ROM 
and  print  publication  delay  the  transfer  of  this  important  information. 

Many  items,  however,  can  be  stored  on  CD-ROM  or  tape  and  can  be  printed  on  demand. 
Examples  might  include  Congressional  hearings,  or  other  voluminous  files  used  primarily  for 
reference.  In  these  cases,  the  library  could  save  the  space  previously  required  in  the  library 
for  paper,  but  users  could  quickly  get  a  print  of  the  specific  material  they  needed.  One  of  the 
highest  costs  of  being  a  depository  is  the  cost  of  space,  and  the  probability  of  any  government 
or  academic  institution  creating  more  space  for  the  storage  of  paper  material  is  decreasing 
with  each  passing  year. 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


Assumption  6:     As  a  result  of  the  increased  availability  of  electronic  information  via 

the  INTERIVET  and  other  sources,  user  expectations  concerning  access 
to  all  forms  of  information  will  change  and  increase. 

The  number  of  people  with  access  to  the  Internet  has  been  increasing  at  an  accelerating 
rate  for  the  last  several  years.  With  the  passage  of  the  NREN  legislation  in  the  102d 
Congress,  the  network  will  continue  to  expand  in  both  speed  and  capacity.  In  the  103d 
Congress,  S.4  contains  provisions  designed  to  follow  up  on  the  original  NREN  legislation  and 
to  extend  network  access  much  further,  most  especially  into  schools  and  libraries  throughout 
the  country.  Since  the  concept  is  a  high  priority  to  Vice  President  Gore  and  the  program  is 
an  important  part  of  the  Clinton-Gore  economic  stimulus  package,  it  can  be  expected  that  in 
some  fashion  the  provisions  of  S.4  will  be  passed.  As  a  result,  it  seems  entirely  likely  that 
within  the  next  few  years  connectivity  to  the  Internet/NREN  will  be  available  to  all  libraries. 
In  addition  to  providing  much  wider  access  to  the  information  stored  on  the  net,  accessing 
data  via  the  Internet  can  help  individual  libraries  save  on  storage  space  and  provide  them  with 
the  ability  to  download  only  what  they  need  for  their  clients. 

In  addition  to  the  investment  being  made  at  the  Federal  level,  investments  in 
telecommunications  are  also  being  made  at  the  local,  state  and  regional  levels.  Several  states 
are  building  statewide  networks  that  will  also  bring  high  speed  networks  into  schools  and 
libraries,  and  quite  possibly,  even  into  the  home.  No  doubt,  these  investments  will  continue 
for  the  next  5-10  years,  making  it  increasingly  possible  for  more  people  to  gain  electronic 
access  to  all  types  of  information. 

As  more  people  have  access  to  the  network  and  more  information  is  made  available  in 
that  way,  there  seems  to  be  little  doubt  that  it  will  quickly  become  a  primary  vehicle  for  the 
delivery  of  basic  information  to  American  citizens.  This  vision  is  already  taking  shape  with 
the  development  of  local  Freenets  which  make  available,  among  other  things,  community 
information,  news,  and  weather,  as  well  as  local,  state,  and  Federal  government  information. 

Assumption  7:     Information  professionals,  in  their  roles  as  intermediaries,  will 
continue  to  be  a  key  part  of  the  program. 

As  these  new  networks  develop,  citizens  will  face  an  increasingly  complex  information 
world.  Faster  networks,  electronic  storage  of  information  and  telecommunications  have 
already  exponentially  increased  an  individual's  opportunity  to  access  and  receive  information. 
Information  sources  have  also  increased  with,  for  example,  over  2,000  vendors  already 
producing  CD-ROM's.  In  addition,  the  proliferation  of  new  information  technologies  used  in 
the  home,  such  as  fax  and  interactive  video,  has  made  citizens  acutely  aware  of  their  power 
and  potential.  With  all  these  information  resources  available  in  a  variety  of  formats, 
understanding  how  to  use  and  access  them  is  critical  if  citizens  are  to  be  prepared  to  function 
as  fully  participating  members  of  society.  Information  professionals  such  as  librarians  can  fill 
an  important  role  in  helping  citizens  navigate  through  this  complex  information  world. 

All  information  professionals  share  similar  traits;  they  know  where  to  find  the  answers, 
how  to  orgcinize  information,  how  to  communicate  with  man  and  machine,  and  they  know 
about  the  latest  information  technologies.  Anyone  may  be  able  to  find  an  answer  to  anything, 


29 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

but  is  it  the  right  or  the  best  answer?  The  information  professional  is  trained  to  identify  the 
best  sources  for  quality  information. 

Information  professionals  also  know  how  to  organize  information.  Unorganized 
information  is  not  information  at  all  ~  it's  just  data.  Take,  for  example,  the  current  dilemma 
with  the  1990  census  data;  in  order  to  be  replicated  in  the  1980  format,  it  needs  to  be 
processed  through  three  separate  software  programs.  The  typical  interested  citizen  has  certain 
expectations  regarding  census  information  and  simply  handing  him  or  her  a  CD-ROM 
containing  the  raw  data  is  not  satisfactory. 

However,  the  information  professional's  unique  skill  is  the  ability  to  communicate. 
Webster  described  information  as  "the  communication  or  the  reception  of  knowledge". 
Understanding  the  logic  stream  to  a  question,  and  translating  it  back  to  the  individual, 
demands  unique  communication  skills  that  cannot  be  replaced  by  artificial  intelligence,  at  least 
not  in  the  near  future. 

The  information  professional  also  plays  a  critical  role  in  the  development  of  more  useful 
and  usable  information  products  and  technologies.  No  one  works  more  closely  with  the  end- 
user,  knows  the  requirements  of  the  user  better,  and  can  have  a  greater  impact  on  the  future 
of  information  technology  than  the  information  professional. 

While  all  of  this  is  true,  the  rapid  pace  of  change  also  makes  it  necessary  for  librarians  to 
be  constantly  updating  their  skills,  to  learn  to  manage  information  using  the  newest  electronic 
systems.  In  addition,  in  view  of  the  large  number  of  datafiles  being  distributed,  librarians 
also  need  training  in  manipulating  numeric  data  and  responding  to  requests  for  information 
presented  in  a  tailored  fashion.  Extraction  of  data  from  CD-ROM  or  tape,  for  example,  will 
require  more  human  resources  in  depository  libraries.  Librarians  need  to  know  how  to 
manipulate  the  data  and  how  to  produce  a  custom  product  for  each  requestor. 

Assumption  8:     In  the  new  information  environment,  there  will  be  many  more  diverse 
points  of  access  to  information.  The  traditional  library  will  be  one 
centralized  place  for  information,  but  there  will  be  others  as  well. 

With  the  new  information  environment,  users  may  not  need  to  come  to  the  library  to  fill 
their  information  needs.  Electronic  information  allows  dial  in  access  from  a  number  of 
locations.  While  the  traditional  library  will  be  one  centralized  place  for  information,  other 
locations  may  exist  as  well.  The  establishment  of  the  National  Research  and  Education 
Network,  which  will  build  an  information  "super  highway",  guarantees  access  to  government 
information  for  all  citizens  through  libraries,  distribution  programs,  community  learning 
centers  and  the  information  highway. 

Depository  libraries  may  play  the  role  of  providing  local  network  access  and  making  the 
network  function  rather  than  simply  receiving,  storing,  and  providing  access  to  paper  copies. 
Like  the  Depository  Library  Program  which  reaches  every  Congressional  district,  public 
schools  reach  every  neighborhood  in  the  country.  Once  schools  are  on  the  network,  this  will 
be  another  access  point.  Any  number  of  other  scenarios  can  be  envisioned  as  local,  state,  and 
regional  networks  grow  and  become  interconnected.  For  example,  you  could  go  to  your  local 


30 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


government  building  and  through  a  terminal  there  be  connected  to  the  network,  thereby 
accessing  needed  information.  Kiosks  could  be  set  up  in  shopping  malls,  very  much  like  the 
mini-libraries  that  now  exist  in  some  malls. 


Assumption  9:     New  laws,  regulations,  and  information  systems,  and  related  changes 
in  how  government  information  is  collected,  maintained,  and 
disseminated  will  have  a  major  impact  on  the  Depository  Library 
Program. 

The  Depository  Library  Program  is  over  100  years  old  and  the  last  major  revision  of 
Title  44  was  in  1962.  There  are  many  in  the  library /information  community  who  infer  from 
this  fact  that  Title  44,  as  written,  does  not  take  into  account  new  technologies  and  that  the 
Government  Printing  Office  might  not  have  a  mandate  to  distribute  government  information  in 
new  electronic  formats.  This  remains  a  divisive  issue. 

Some  have  argued  that  GPO  has  statutory  authority  under  Title  44  to  disseminate  all 
government  information  regardless  of  the  format  in  which  it  is  stored.  GPO's  General 
Counsel  opinions  in  1982  and  1989  provided  different  viewpoints  in  this  debate.  Another 
opinion  from  the  GPO  General  Counsel  in  1990  does  expand  the  definition  of  a  "government 
publication"  to  include  "government  information  presented  in  an  electronic  format."  Does 
this,  however,  provide  a  definitive  answer?  The  question  remains  as  to  whether  GPO  can 
afford  to  embark  on  a  new  electronic  course  without  a  clearcut  mission  to  do  so. 

Further,  if  GPO  does  forge  ahead  in  the  electronic  arena.  Federal  agencies  still  are  not 
mandated  to  provide  their  products  and  services  (regardless  of  format)  which  they  produce, 
for  distribution  to  the  DLP. 

In  a  1991  legal  opinion  of  the  GPO  General  Counsel  about  cost  sharing,  there  is  a 
footnote  in  which  it  is  stated  that: 

"Our  review  of  the  legislative  history  indicates  that  technological  advancements  in 
the  field  of  information  compilation  and  dissemination  have  outstripped,  in  many 
instances,  the  expectation  of  Congress  when  it  passed  the  Depository  Library  Act  of 
1962.  Regardless  of  this  anachronism,  both  this  office  (GPO  General  Counsel)  and 
the  Joint  Committee  on  Printing  have  construed  Title  44  to  encompass  Government 
information  presented  in  electronic  format,  although  electronic  products  are  not 
expressly  included  in  the  definition  of  Government  publications." 

Another  question  to  consider  is  whether  this  (or  previous)  legal  opinion(s)  could  be 
overturned  or  revised  should  there  be  a  different  General  Counsel  or  Public  Printer. 
"Legislative  intent"  is  always  open  to  interpretation  unless  there  is  definitive  language 
contained  in  public  laws. 

Title  44  must  be  fully  re-examined  in  light  of  the  new  technologies  available  for     -  i;-^  o  - 
information  dissemination.  If  there  is  a  revision,  it  cannot  and  should  not  be  done  in  a 
piecemeal  manner.  It  is  the  guiding  force  of  the  GPO  operations  and  any  changes  should  be 
positive  and  not  done  to  negatively  impact  the  depository  or  sales  programs.  All  stakeholders 


31 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

must  be  part  of  the  debate,  and  that  includes  JCP  and  other  congressional  committees  which 
have  some  relationship  to  the  operations  of  GPO,  the  depository  community, 
library/information  associations,  Federal  agencies,  the  information  industry,  public  interest 
groups,  and  the  oft-discussed  "users"  of  government  information. 

It  is  also  a  given,  however,  that  when  there  is  legislative  overhaul  of  a  program,  this 
could  bring  out  the  "enemies,"  in  this  case,  those  who  might  want  to  restrict  the  scope  of  the 
program,  as  well  as  the  "friends,"  who  see  a  need  to  expand  the  mandate  for  GPO 
operations. 

It  is  imperative  that  Members  of  Congress  be  educated  about  the  DLP.  The  110 
freshmen  members  of  the  House  of  Representatives  and  the  new  Senators  must  be  taught  by 
their  constituents  about  the  value  of  the  program  and  its  cost-effectiveness.  They  must 
understand  what  the  program  offers  to  citizens  ~  their  constituents.  But  they  must  be 
convinced  NOT  only  because  the  DLP  offers  an  information  "safety  net"  or  that  citizens  are 
entitled  to  access  information  about  their  government.  In  these  budget  cutting  times,  there 
must  be  a  case  made  for  how  the  DLP  provides  an  economic  advantage  to  citizens,  helps 
small  businesses,  aids  in  this  country's  competitiveness,  etc.  The  new  Administration  in 
Washington  came  in  on  the  theme  of  "change"  and  the  DLP  and  the  depository  community 
must  be  willing  to  advance  that  theme. 

This  is  especially  important  in  the  area  of  funding  ~  how  to  convince  Congress  to 
adequately  fund  the  GPO/DLP  so  that  electronic  products  and  services  are  an  integral  part  of 
the  depository  program. 

Some  specific  areas  which  should  be  examined  in  reviewing  Title  44  include: 

  Sec.  1911  which  mentions  keeping  permanent  copies  in  either  paper  or  microform  ~ 
should  this  also  include  electronic  records?  What  if  the  material  is  available  only  in 
electronic  format? 

  The  legislation  calls  for  depositories  in  each  congressional  district  ~  what  happens 
when  there  is  redistricting,  as  we  have  seen  since  the  1990  Census?  What  changes 
can  or  should  be  made  so  that  some  areas  of  the  country  are  not  so  "information  rich" 
at  the  expense  of  the  "information  poor"? 

  Is  the  system  of  using  congressional  districts  for  setting  up  depositories  the  best 
approach?  Does  this  offer  the  best  framework  through  which  information  is 
disseminated? 

  Does  sec.  1903  provide  a  cost  disincentive  to  agencies  to  provide  copies  of  their 
material  to  the  DLP  since  they  can  have  their  information  printed  elsewhere? 

  The  Public  Printer  has  stated  in  congressional  testimony  that  "legislative  action  is 
needed  to  clarify  Title  44  and  explicitly  incorporate  publications  in  electronic  format. " 

The  Office  of  Technology  Assessment's  Report  "Informing  the  Nation,"  urges 
Congressional  action  to  resolve  Federal  information  dissemination  issues  and  to  set  direction 


32 


AN-vl4-#  13 -6/20/93 


for  policies.  Discussions  about  national  and  Federal  information  policy  issues  will  have  a 
major  impact  on  any  potential  changes  to  the  Depository  Library  system.  Federal  agencies 
are  using  more  and  more  electronic  products  and  services.  Statutes  should  keep  ahead  of  the 
times  and  not  just  play  "catch  up." 

OMB  Circular  A- 130  in  its  latest  revision  (April  1992),  while  noting  that  Federal 
agencies  should  "ensure  that  government  publications  are  made  available  through  depository 
libraries,"  created  a  number  of  loopholes  for  agencies  to  avoid  utilizing  the  program.  The 
circular  provides  a  narrow  definition  of  a  "government  publication"  and  in  essence  creates  a 
difference  between  paper  and  electronic  formats.  This  difference  would  allow  Federal 
agencies  to  use  the  argument  they  need  not  provide  electronic  products  and  services  to  GPO 
for  distribution  to  the  DLP.  The  writers  of  the  circular  note  that: 

"...the  definition  of  "government  publication"  in  44  USC  1901  is:  'informational 
matter  which  is  published  as  an  individual  document'...,  OMB  does  not  understand 
that  this  definition,  on  its  face,  includes  electronic  data  files,  software,  online 
information  services,  or  the  like  ....  Therefore,  OMB  believes  it  is  not  clear  that 
agencies  have  a  legal  obligation  to  make  electronic  products  available  to  depository 
libraries. " 

Although  the  circular  goes  on  to  say  that  "as  a  matter  of  policy"  Federal  agencies  should 
make  electronic  products  (services  are  not  mentioned)  available  to  the  DLP,  such  a  negative 
approach  sends  the  wrong  signal  to  agencies.  What  are  agency  officials  more  likely  to  base 
their  own  dissemination  policy  on    Circular  A- 130  which  provides  guidance  to  executive 
branch  agencies  in  the  area  of  information  policy  or  a  legal  opinion  of  the  GPO  General 
Counsel  (an  agency  located  in  the  legislative  branch)  relating  to  provision  of  information  in 
electronic  formats? 

With  a  new  administration  and  therefore  new  officials  at  OMB,  it  is  possible  that  there 
will  be  further  revisions  to  A- 130.  Whether  these  revisions  will  take  a  more  positive  stance 
toward  the  DLP  and  the  role  of  agencies  remains  to  be  seen.  But  it  is  something  members  of 
the  depository  community  need  to  be  aware  of  and  they  could  make  their  concerns  known  as 
the  guard  changes  at  OMB. 

As  policy  makers  are  working  on  "building"  NREN,  the  depository  community  and  the 
library  world  as  a  whole  must  be  viewed  as  stakeholders  in  the  process.  The  new 
administration  will  be  closely  linked  to  the  notion  of  an  electronic  super-highway  due  largely 
to  Senator  Gore's  work  on  the  NREN  bill  and  other  allied  legislation.  There  is  a  strong  link 
with  Senator  Gore  also  because  of  his  association  with  the  JCP  over  the  past  years. 

If  the  DLP  is  to  have  a  viable  role  in  the  electronic  information  age,  it  and  the 
community  must  be  part  of  the  NREN.  The  position  paper  produced  by  GODORT/ALA  in 
March  1991  titled,  "National  Research  and  Education  Network  and  the  Federal  Depository 
Library  Program,"  provides  strong  arguments  as  to  why  the  DLP  should  be  included  in  the 
NREN.  It  might  be  worthwhile  for  the  paper  to  be  updated  in  light  of  the  new  administration 
and  new  agency  heads  being  appointed. 

But  while  there  are  many  in  the  depository  community  who  are  conversant  with  the  issues 


33 


AN.vl4-#13-6/20/93 


in  this  area,  it  is  important  that  GPO  is  as  well.  There  were  many  concerns  raised  during 
discussion  of  the  GPO  WINDO  bill  that  the  agency  was  not  equipped  to  handle  these  new 
technological  advances.  It  might  be  well  for  the  agency  to  look  to  the  depository  community 
for  expertise  in  some  of  these  areas.  This  could  forge  a  strong  partnership  between  the 
depository  community  and  GPO. 

A  final  itemor  rather  a  question  for  further  study  is  where  the  regional  Bell  operating 
companies  (RBOC's)  fit  into  the  scheme  of  things.  If  and  when  RBOC's  can  begin  offering 
information  services,  how  might  that  affect  depositories?  Will  there  be  any  impact?  Will  this 
mean  more  players  in  the  information  industry  repackaging  and  selling  government 
information?  Might  this  help  by  increasing  competition  in  that  industry? 

Assumption  10:    Some  libraries  will  be  partners  in  the  change;  some  will  not. 

As  the  Depository  Library  Program  moves  towards  restructuring  due  to  the  addition  of 
electronic  access  and/or  the  need  to  control  the  cost  of  the  program,  some  libraries  will  be 
partners  in  this  change,  while  others  will  not.  There  are  already  many  differences  among 
depository  libraries  in  terms  of  the  services  they  now  provide.  With  the  move  to  electronic 
access,  it  must  be  accepted  that  some  libraries  will  not  be  able  to  participate  due  to  a  lack  of 
financial  support,  necessary  equipment,  or  technical  expertise. 

While  Council  does  not  support  denying  information  access  to  any  depository  library,  it 
must  be  recognized  that  this  may  be  the  result  if  some  libraries  do  not  have  the  capability  of 
handling  electronic  government  information.  The  change  in  how  government  information  is 
delivered  will  happen,  with  or  without  a  restructured  Depository  Library  Program.  But  a 
restructured  program  will  allow  those  depository  libraries  which  do  have  electronic  access  to 
obtain  that  information  and  to  assist  those  libraries  that  do  not. 


in.  Alternative  Scenarios  for  a  Restructured  Program 

A.  The  ARL  ModelMultiple  Service  Levels 

In  1988,  the  Task  Force  on  Government  Information  in  Electronic  Format  of  the 
Association  of  Research  Libraries  explored  the  changing  relationship  between  the  Federal 
government  and  depositories  libraries.  The  Task  Force  noted  that,  "Government  information 
~  its  creation  and  dissemination  ~  is  a  microcosm  of  the  elements  and  layers  of  a  new 
paradigm  for  libraries"  and  that  "the  prospect  of  GPO  providing  government  information  in 
electronic  format  for  depositories  accelerates  the  need  for  libraries  to  address  the  shifting 
paradigm." 

Recent  ARL  statistics  illustrate  the  depth  and  breadth  of  this  shifting  paradigm  and  how 
significant  this  shift  has  become  in  a  relatively  short  period  of  time.   1990-91  ARL  Statistics 
provide  evidence  that  research  libraries  "are  increasingly  moving  from  the  traditional  supply 
or  warehouse  model,  to  a  demand  or  access  model  for  providing  information  to  users.  ARL 
libraries  are  moving  from  the  "just  in  case"  model  of  on-site  resources  to  the  "just  in  time" 
model  of  resource  sharing.  " 


34 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


A  recent  survey  intended  to  provide  a  snapshot  of  ARL  libraries'  activities  considered 
key  elements  of  a  research  library  of  the  future  ~  electronic  document  delivery,  electronic 
journals,  full  text  database  access,  network  access,  and  the  like  ~  provides  additional 
evidence  of  how  widespread  this  shift  is  and  how  it  is  influencing  ARL  libraries'  services  and 
operations.  The  survey  found  that  a  large  number  of  institutions  are  making  "notable 
commitments  to  electronic  networked  systems  and  services. "  (ARL,  a  Bi-monthly  Newsletter 
no.  163,  Toward  a  Realization  of  the  Virtual  Library,  Nancy  Schiller,  and  Barbara  von 
Wahlde)  For  example,  85  %  of  the  respondents  are  using  or  developing  electronic  document 
delivery  services  and  66%  are  providing  access  to  electronic  full  text. 

And  finally,  interlibrary  loan  data  demonstrates  the  continuing  reliance  upon  research 
libraries  for  resources  and  an  increase  in  interlibrary  loan  activity.     Because  of  the  breadth 
and  depth  of  their  collections,  research  libraries  tend  to  serve  as  resource  collections  for  other 
libraries.  As  more  multi-type  libraries  have  used  OCLC  or  RLIN  for  retrospective  and 
current  cataloging,  the  presence  of  their  holdings  in  these  networks  has  spread  interlibrary 
loan  requests  among  a  larger  number  of  libraries,  although  the  general  pattern  of  research 
libraries  as  net  lenders  seems  to  be  continuing.  Since  1981,  while  lending  by  ARL  libraries 
has  grown  155%,  borrowing  has  grown  by  206%.  ARL  Statistics  for  FY  1990  documents  a 
total  of  5.2  million  items  loaned  or  borrowed. 

The  speed  with  which  this  shifting  paradigm  has  been  introduced  and  integrated  into 
research  libraries  can  be  attributed  to  numerous  factors    constrained  budgets,  the  serials 
crisis,  new  opportunities  and  services  resulting  from  computer  and  telecommunications 
investments  and  programs,  changing  user  information  needs  and  requirements  including 
increased  demand  due  to  more  effective  bibliographic  and  access  measures,  increasing 
reliance  upon  electronic  resources,  and  more.  As  noted  elsewhere  in  this  paper  and  in  the 
forthcoming  paper,  "Problems  and  Issues  Affecting  the  U.S.  Depository  Library  Program  and 
the  GPO:  The  Librarian's  Manifesto,"  (forthcoming  in  Government  Publications  Review) 
there  is  ample  evidence  that  documents  collections  in  participating  depository  libraries  are  a 
part  of/or  are  experiencing  many  of  these  same  pressures  and  opportunities.  These  pressures 
result  in  these  authors  reaching  the  same  conclusion  as  the  ARL  Task  Force  on  Government 
Information  in  Electronic  Information  ~  that  there  is  a  pressing  need  to  review  and  assess  the 
Depository  Library  Program  on  a  number  of  fronts,  including  the  questionable  value  of 
retaining  its  current  structure  given  the  shifting  paradigm. 

The  ARL  proposal  for  a  restructuring  of  the  depository  program  or  a  variation  of  it  is 
still  valid  today.  And  such  a  reassessment  of  the  program  should  be  conducted  in  light  of  one 
central  and  underlying  assumption:  a  program  that  provides  equitable,  no-fee  access  to  basic 
public  information  for  all  citizens  should  be  retained  and  in  fact  strengthened  through  any 
restructuring  proposals. 

There  remains  the  commitment  to  the  role  that  libraries  have  always  played:  provider  of 
no-fee  access  for  the  general  public  to  government  information.  What  is  highlighted  by  the 
prominence  of  electronic  information  is  that  not  all  government  information  is  the  same  and 
that  the  level  of  user  accessibility  provided  for  electronic  products  varies  tremendously 
depending  on  the  system  characteristics  provided  by  the  government  or  added  to  it  by 
libraries  or  other  intermediaries.  Government  information  defined  as  essential  for  fulfilling 
the  citizenship  information  needs  of  the  public  and  for  fulfilling  government  responsibilities 


35 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

should  be  distributed  to  depository  libraries  in  a  manner  that  allows  libraries  to  make  it 
available  at  no  fee. 

There  is  also  the  understanding  that  with  the  introduction  of  new  services  such  as  the 
GPO  WINDO,  there  are  also  new  responsibilities  that  must  be  addressed  in  a  restructuring 
proposal.  For  example,  although  a  library  providing  Basic  Services  could  access  the  GPO 
Gateway  directly,  the  request  could  be  for  retrospective  information  no  longer  available  via 
the  agency  or  GPO.  The  role  of  Pull  Service  libraries  vis-a-vis  issues  relating  to  indexing, 
archiving,  and  related  long-term  access  issues  will  need  to  be  addressed. 

The  ARL  model  (see  Technology  &  U.S.  Government  Information  Policies:  Catalysts  for 
New  Partnerships,  1988)  proposed  the  following  redefinition  of  depository  library  service 
responsibilities  in  which  government  documents  and  gateways  to  government  information  will 
be  focused  along  the  following  lines: 

BASIC  Services: 

This  level  of  depository  library  would  serve  as  an  information  center  in  which  there 
would  exist  a  small  government  document  collection  and  a  computerized  gateway  to  electronic 
government  information  located  elsewhere  (e.g.  GPO  WINDO,  an  Intermediate,  or  a  Full 
service  depository).  The  service  might  be  focused  more  on  self-help  and  on-demand  levels. 

INTERMEDIATE  Services: 

This  level  of  depository  library  would  maintain  a  larger  government  document  collection 
and  some  electronic  information  and  gateways  to  other  electronic  information  located 
elsewhere.  This  library  might  devise  products  which  would  work  well  through  the  gateways 
and  might  invest  in  developing  value-added  approaches  to  the  government  information.  The 
service  would  include  more  mediation  and  synthesis  than  the  Basic  level. 

FULL  Services: 

This  level  of  depository  library  would  contain  research  level  government  documents  and 
a  full  range  of  electronic  information  and  the  most  sophisticated  gateways  to  other  electronic 
information.  The  depository  collection  would  be  supplemented  by  related,  locally  available 
databases.  The  level  of  service  would  include  the  highest  levels  of  value-added  characteristics. 
There  would  be  developed  software  packages  and  other  approaches  which  would  change 
wholesale  government  information  into  retail  government  information.  There  would  be  some 
level  of  Federal  support  for  the  Full  Service  libraries. 

Roles  for  depository  library  participants  may  change  in  some  or  all  of  the  following 
ways.  First,  since  requirements  for  equipment,  staff  to  support  a  full-service  electronic 
depository  collection  and  the  growing  amount  of  resources  available  are  considerable,  the 
program  may  be  well  served  by  having  just  a  few  libraries  support  multi-state  or  national 
public  information  needs  as  part  of  the  program.  From  this  there  may  develop  varying  levels 
of  responsibility  for  providing  services  for  electronic  and  other  information  products.  Some 
depository  libraries  may  not  be  able  to  afford  the  equipment  and/or  staff  support  to  provide 


36 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


services  for  certain  kinds  of  government  information  in  electronic  form.  Location,  however, 
becomes  less  consequential  given  the  increasingly  reliance  upon  networks  for  access  to 
resources  recalling  however,  that  the  economics  of  resource  sharing  may  be  different.  All 
depositories  will  require  equipment  and  staff  proficiency  to  provide  effective  access  to 
electronic  resources. 

B.  The  Direct  Support  ModeF 

Depository  libraries  currently  play  only  a  limited  role  in  determining  the  distribution 
policies  and  patterns  of  the  depository  system  as  a  whole.  The  fundamental  design  of  the 
present  system  is  quite  simple:  regional  depositories  receive  everything  distributed  by  GPO; 
selective  depositories  generally  opt  to  receive  items  in  a  recommended  basic  collection,  plus 
whatever  additional  items  are  appropriate  to  the  library's  mission  and  responsive  to  the  needs 
of  the  public  which  it  serves.  The  information  and  incentives  for  managing  the  depository 
program,  to  the  extent  that  they  exist  at  all,  are  centralized  at  GPO. 

There  is  a  widely  held  perception  that  the  obligations  imposed  upon  regionals  for  (a) 
comprehensive  receipt  of  publications  in  multiple  media,  (b)  indefinite  retention  of  at  least 
one  copy  of  each  publication,  and  (c)  service  to  other  libraries  within  the  region  are  too 
burdensome  and  inflexible.  The  model  of  fifty-plus  regional  libraries  all  performing  what  is 
often  (and  incorrectly)  described  as  an  archival  function,  along  with  other  functions  that  owe 
more  to  a  paradigm  of  government  property  management  than  to  any  theory  of  library 
service,  is  becoming  less  sustainable  with  each  passing  year. 

Selective  depositories,  for  their  part,  are  able  to  choose  the  categories  of  publications  that 
they  wish  to  receive.  However,  they  have  little  incentive  to  consider  the  economic  impact  of 
their  choices  upon  the  whole  depository  system,  and,  even  if  they  attempt  to  do  so,  they  have 
very  limited  tools  for  participating  in  the  optimum  allocation  of  resources.  The  subject  of 
cooperation  between  selective  depositories  is  not  well  developed  in  GPO's  "Instructions  to 
Depository  Libraries."  Officially,  at  least,  most  cooperation  must  be  mediated  by  the 
regional  depository.  Moreover,  the  limited  autonomy  that  government  documents 
departments  have  in  most  depository  libraries,  together  with  the  need  for  the  library  as  a 
whole  to  conform  to  broader  institutional  policies,  tends  to  reduce  the  scope  of  potential 
contributions  by  an  individual  library  to  system-wide  management. 

The  flaws  of  the  present  system  have  been  more  fully  described  in  other  sections  of  this 
report,  and  even  more  extensively  in  the  growing  body  of  literature  on  the  subject.  Many,  if 
not  all,  of  these  flaws  can  be  traced  to  a  fundamental  structural  weakness  of  the  system:  the 
member  libraries  that  serve  as  the  critical  link  to  the  ultimate  beneficiaries  ~  the  public  at 
large  ~  are  not  empowered  to  participate  in  managing  the  system  to  best  advantage. 

Federal  funding  has  always  been  restricted  to  support  of  document  reproduction  and 
distribution,  and  has  been  estimated  to  constitute  less  than  half  of  the  full  cost  of  the 


^  The  ideas  in  this  section  reflect  some  of  the  perspectives  of  the  information  industry.  However,  this  section  is  not,  and 
should  not  be  construed  as,  a  position  statement  of  the  Information  Industry  Association. 


37 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


depository  system.^  But  decisions  that  determine  how  the  Federal  resources  will  be  allocated 
largely  control  the  disposition  of  resources  for  the  entire  system.  For  example,  the 
government's  decision  to  distribute  a  certain  proportion  of  titles  in  microform  virtually 
mandates  a  certain  corresponding  level  of  expenditure  by  a  regional  library  ~  and  by  many 
selectives  as  well  ~  for  the  procurement  of  microform  viewing,  storage,  and  replication 
equipment,  as  well  as  for  associated  staffing  and  maintenance.  Moreover,  the  likelihood  of 
long-term  constraints  on  Federal  spending  suggests  that  if  the  present  system  is  maintained, 
there  will  not  be  enough  money  to  continue  distribution  at  current  levels,  to  say  nothing  of 
meeting  the  complex  distribution  challenges  posed  by  the  growing  body  of  agency-produced 
electronic  publications. 

The  Depository  Library  Program  is  desperately  in  need  of  ways  to  maximize  the  return 
on  every  Federal  dollar  expended.  It  is  equally  urgent  that  the  system  enable  depository 
libraries  themselves  to  show  a  return  on  their  investment  in  the  system,  expressed  in  terms  of 
service  to  the  public  and  perhaps  in  terms  of  other  institutional  goals  as  well. 

Reforming  the  depository  system  may  involve  many  elements  of  change.  But  the  one 
change  that  would  most  effectively  align  available  resources  with  the  "demand"  registered  by 
library  patrons  for  government  publications  would  be  to  give  libraries  control  over  how 
depository  resources  are  allocated. 

The  proportion  of  overall  depository  reproduction  and  distribution  costs  that  are  necessary 
to  supply  a  particular  library  with  its  free  publications  represents  the  germ  of  a  budget.  Each 
depository's  budget  can  in  fact  already  be  considered  to  exist,  albeit  in  just  a  latent  sense  in 
the  present  system.  The  aggregate  budget  for  the  entire  depository  system  ~  a  very  real 
figure  for  GPO  -  is  nothing  more  than  the  sum  of  the  costs  incurred  to  serve  each 
depository,  even  if  the  latter  costs  are  not  currently  isolated.  The  question  is  not  whether 
each  depository  has  its  own  budget.  Rather,  the  question  is  whether  the  necessary 
information  and  incentives  will  be  developed  to  manage  that  budget  for  the  maximum  benefit 
of  the  American  public. 

Fortunately,  an  essential  preliminary  step  toward  giving  libraries  control  over  how  the 
expenditures  dedicated  to  their  support  are  allocated  will  be  taken  by  1994,  when  the  GPO 
Library  Programs  Service's  Acquisitions,  Classification,  and  Shipment  Information  System 
(ACSIS)  is  scheduled  to  have  the  capacity  to  report  on  the  cost  of  each  depository  publication 
distributed.  This  capability  will  make  it  possible  to  calculate  the  cost  of  supporting  any 
depository  library  merely  by  summing  the  cost  of  all  the  publications  that  it  receives,  and 
perhaps  adding  to  that  sum  a  standard  proportion  of  GPO  administrative  costs. 

The  next  step  would  be  to  let  libraries  have  a  voice  in  the  disposition  of  the  resources 
that  are  now  used  for  their  support.  This  is  in  fact  already  being  done,  but  only  through  a 
sporadic,  command-oriented,  crisis-driven  process,  as  represented  by  GPO's  letter  to 
depositories  of  Nov.  18,  1992  announcing  certain  curtailments  in  distribution,  asking  for 
voluntary  cutbacks  in  depository  selections,  and  seeking  depositories'  reactions  to  additional 
possible  cuts.  The  only  incentive  that  depositories  have  to  curtail  their  selections  is  their  hope 


"Government  Information  as  a  Public  Asset",  nt.  4,  supra  at  24-25. 


38 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


that  such  action  will  prevent  deeper  future  cuts  affecting  the  entire  system.  In  such 
circumstances,  it  is  very  difficult  for  an  individual  library  to  make  rational  assessments  of  the 
costs  and  benefits  associated  with  GPO's  "either/or"  propositions. 

Assuming  that  for  the  indefinite  future  there  will  be  limited  funding  relative  to  the  costs 
of  distributing  all  Federal  depository  publications  in  a  variety  of  media,  it  would  be  much 
more  productive  to  entrust  libraries  with  the  authority  to  choose  at  the  start  of  each  Federal 
fiscal  year  how  the  library's  share  of  depository  funds  is  to  be  spent.  This  would  help 
depository  librarians  to  more  fully  evaluate  the  consequences  of  their  selections  and  would 
provide  a  basis  for  making  rational  trade-offs.  Coupled  with  cooperative  collection 
development  within  each  region,  this  approach  would  enable  each  library  to  tailor  its  selection 
practices  to  match  its  own  needs  much  more  closely  than  is  possible  today. 

The  question  of  what  base  should  be  used  to  determine  the  size  of  a  library's  individual 
budget  obviously  could  be  decided  in  various  ways,  but  should  not  present  an  insurmountable 
obstacle.  Perhaps  selection  patterns  for  the  immediate  past  year,  or  for  several  previous 
years,  would  provide  a  basis  from  which  to  start.  A  library  might  decide  not  to  use  all  of  its 
budgeted  selection  authority  each  year.  Since  even  free  publications  incur  costs  once  they  are 
acquired  by  the  library,  the  same  forces  that  today  lead  selective  depositories  not  to  select 
everything  would  continue  to  operate. 

Once  a  system  is  in  place  that  gives  libraries  responsibility  for  how  "in-kind"  government 
aid,  in  the  form  of  free  publications,  is  allocated,  it  would  be  attractive  to  consider  expanding 
libraries'  options  by  making  Federal  support  available  as  more  widely  convertible  credits  that 
could  be  used  for  a  variety  of  purposes  in  support  of  depository  responsibilities.  One  could 
envision  GPO's  depository  distribution  operation  becoming  a  more  closely  related  adjunct  to 
the  GPO  sales  program,  with  a  library  "paying"  for  individual  items  with  "depository 
credits."  Eventually,  ACSIS  should  be  able  to  support  a  more  dynamic  selection  process,  so 
that  a  depository  could  choose  to  receive  an  individual  title  at  any  time  up  to  GPO's 
placement  of  the  replication  order.  The  library  could  choose  to  use  its  credits  to  obtain 
multiple  copies  of  some  items,  and  items  placed  by  GPO  in  its  general  sales  program  could 
be  purchased  at  some  time  later  than  the  date  of  original  distribution.  As  electronic  media 
move  into  the  mainstream  of  the  GPO  sales  program,  and  as  GPO  begins  to  take  advantage  of 
print-on-demand  technology,  it  should  be  feasible  to  expand  the  number  of  items  that  are 
available  through  the  sales  program,  and  to  keep  them  "in  print"  indefinitely. 

Additionally,  it  should  be  possible  to  arrange  for  the  use  of  depository  credits  for 
acquisitions  on  concessionary  terms  from  NTIS.  Such  credits  could  also  be  applied  to  the 
purchase  of  dedicated  electronic  equipment,  commercially  produced  document  sets,  and  "non- 
government reference  tools"  such  as  those  recommended  in  the  "Guidelines  for  the 
Depository  Library  System."^  Software  and  databases  from  government  and  non-government 
sources  would  also  be  eligible  for  purchase. 

Such  a  plan  would  make  it  clear  what  could  be  obtained,  by  an  individual  library  and  by 


'  Guidelines  for  the  Depository  Library  System,  as  adopted  by  the  Depository  Library  Council,  revised  1987,  Guideline  4-2 
(Washington,  D.C.:  USGPO,  1988). 


39 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 

the  whole  depository  system,  for  a  given  level  of  expenditure.  The  participation  of  multiple 
suppliers  would  require  GPO  to  offer  high  standards  of  service,  as  measured  by  comparison 
to  the  alternatives  available  to  libraries  rather  than  merely  by  internal  assessments. 
Moreover,  libraries  would  be  the  judges  of  the  adequacy  of  that  service,  and  could  send 
messages  in  the  form  of  choices  about  how  they  allocate  their  depository  credits. 

Such  a  development  would  actually  come  as  good  news  for  GPO.  The  burdens  of 
depository  system  administration  would  be  reduced.  A  rationalized  depository  system  that 
empowers  libraries  and  provides  for  multiple  sources  of  supply  would  elicit  broader  support 
for  congressional  appropriations.  GPO's  Library  Programs  Service  unit  could  emerge 
changed  but  revitalized,  ready  to  fulfill  the  roles  expected  of  it  in  the  future. 

During  the  spring  1992  meeting  of  the  Depository  Library  Council,  Superintendent  of 
Documents  Wayne  Kelley  noted,  in  the  words  of  the  official  summary,  that  "the  only  truly 
equitable  program  is  one  where  the  actual  value  is  transferred  to  be  disposed  of  by  the 
consumer.  "^^   Empowerment  of  the  customer,  the  user,  the  voter,  the  taxpayer,  the 
employee,  the  shareholder,  or  the  consumer  is  a  key  feature  of  the  sweeping  political, 
economic,  and  administrative  changes  that  are  taking  place  today  in  our  own  society  and 
throughout  the  world.  Systems  characterized  by  centralized,  command-driven,  and 
production-line  forms  of  organization  are  giving  way  to  constituent-controlled,  demand- 
responsive,  service-oriented  structures.  It  is  time  to  use  these  new  structures  to  deliver 
maximum  benefit  for  the  American  public's  investment  in  depository  distribution. 

Depository  libraries  have  for  years  been  entrusted  with  the  enduring  legacy  of  the 
depository  system:  the  extensive  collections  of  government  publications  that  are  maintained 
for  public  use  in  hundreds  of  locations  throughout  the  nation.  They  have  also  developed, 
largely  on  their  own,  the  facilities  and  the  trained  staff  to  provide  convenient  access  to  these 
publications,  including  the  electronic  publications  that  form  a  growing  part  of  depository 
information  resources.  Few  would  dispute  that  on  the  whole  depository  libraries  have  merited 
the  trust  that  has  been  placed  in  them,  and  that  they  have  done  an  excellent  job  with  the 
available  resources.  It  is  time  now  to  entrust  to  depositories  all  of  the  tools  that  they  need  to 
deliver  government  information  to  the  people  whom  they  serve.  By  empowering  them  to 
make  their  own  decisions,  the  depository  program  will  remain  true  to  its  original  mission,  and 
will  be  prepared  to  respond  creatively  to  the  challenges  of  a  new  century. 

C.  Creation  of  a  National  Collection  of  Last  Resort 

The  creation  of  a  National  Collection  to  house  at  least  one  copy  of  each  government 
document  printed  or  produced  electronically  would  provide  access,  as  a  depository  library  of 
last  resort,  to  copies  of  documents  by  reproduction,  interlibrary  loan,  or  electronic 
transmission  for  other  depository  libraries  throughout  the  country.  The  primary  function  of 
this  collection  would  be  the  acquisition,  housing  and  dissemination  of  documents  needed  by 
information  users  around  the  country.  In  general,  identification  and  reference  to  specific 
sources  would  be  within  the  purview  of  the  requesting  depository;  however,  in  cases  where 


'"Administrative  Notes,  Vol.  13,  No.  11,  May  31,  1992. 


40 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


such  identification  is  difficult  or  impossible  except  with  onsite  access,  the  librarians  at  the 
National  Collection  could  provide  some  reference  help  and  technical  service  type  information 
based  on  their  holdings.  This  collection  would  be  very  labor  intensive,  very  expensive  and 
have  an  expansive  level  of  service  since  it  would  be  serving  the  whole  nation. 

The  establishment  of  a  National  Collection  would  provide  access  to  otherwise  unavailable 
"fugitive"  documents  by  requiring  agencies  to  submit  only  two  or  three  copies  of  items  that 
could  not  be  procured  in  large  numbers.  With  dissemination  on  demand,  the  National 
Collection  could  house  and  make  available  to  depositories  those  titles  with  limited  interest  and 
infrequent  user  potential  that  are  now  being  distributed  to  and  permanently  retained  by 
fifty-two  regional  libraries.  This  would  be  cost-effective  for  both  the  Government  Printing 
Office  and  for  the  regional  depositories.  GPO  monies  saved  on  printing,  binding  and 
distribution  could  be  reallocated  to  support  the  National  Collection   Funding  in  local 
depositories  that  had  previously  gone  to  process  and  store  these  items  could  be  reallocated  for 
other  purposes. 

The  National  Collection  could  be  built  upon  an  existing  regional  collection  of  exhaustive 
historical  breadth  with  additional  resources  culled  from  the  collections  of  other  regionals 
nationwide  to  create  a  comprehensive  warehouse  of  materials  readily  available  to  any  user  in 
the  United  States. 

With  the  National  Collection  established,  some  regionals,  as  they  are  now  designated, 
could  be  allowed  to  select  less  than  100%  and  to  discard  items  after  some  defined  period  and 
after  offering  their  material  to  the  National  Collection.  Another  option  for  current  regionals 
would  be  to  become  a  Super-Regional  (see  below). 

This  structure  would  meet  some  citizen  information  needs  that  are  currently  unmet  by 
improving  access  to  materials  of  limited  distribution.  It  would  also  allow  Federal  Agencies  to 
disseminate  all  information  to  at  least  one  location,  getting  information  into  the  system  that  is 
not  currently  represented. 

Questions  to  be  answered  include: 

  How  to  fund  the  program? 

  Can  the  National  Collection  benefits  justify  the  cost  involved  in  implementation  and 
operation? 

  Does  it  reach  all  user  groups?  Urban/rural,  academic/business,  different  geographical 
regions,  etc. 

  Is  access  for  the  user  quick  enough  to  be  useful  and  is  access  certain? 

  Who  would  be  the  parent  organization  for  the  National  Collection  and  how  would  it 
mesh  with  other  components  of  the  depository  system? 


41 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


D.  Creation  a  Network  of  Super-Regionals 

Like  the  National  Collection  described  above,  Super-Regionals  would  be  libraries  of  last 
resort,  but  organized  at  a  regional  level  to  insure  coverage  for  all  geographic  areas  within  that 
region.  A  Super-regional  would  be  designated  by  the  Government  Printing  Office  to  serve  as 
the  "regional  collection"  for  one  of  ten  Federal  depository  Regions  to  be  defined  by  GPO 
based  upon  geographic  distribution  and  population  density  in  the  United  States.  (The 
Environmental  Protection  Agency's  10  regions  would  be  a  good  model.)  These  depositories 
would  provide  resource  sharing  and  other  support  activities  to  approximately  five  contiguous 
states  optimally  having  similar  industries  and  services. 

Institutions  agreeing  to  accept  Super-Regional  status  must  demonstrate  ability  to  act  in 
this  capacity  based  on  strength  of  collection,  adequacy  of  facility,  commitment  to  continued 
funding,  and  enough  staff  and  technical  support  to  meet  the  needs  of  constituent  depositories 
and  of  other  Super-Regionals.  Responsibilities  for  Super-Regionals  might  include: 

  dissemination  of  paper,  microfiche,  and  electronic  products 

  continuation  of  the  archival  function  of  current  regional  depositories 

  Coordination  of  training  activities  for  librarians  within  the  defined  area 

  Assistance  with  difficult  reference  questions. 

Unlike  a  regional  depository  under  the  current  structure,  the  Super-Regional  collection 
would  be  based,  at  least  to  a  degree,  on  the  subject  and  geographic  needs  of  the  states  in  its 
designated  region  with  comprehensive  coverage  of  materials  of  more  universal  interest. 
Collection  development  at  this  level  would  necessitate  a  transition  from  the  "item  selection" 
base  to  a  more  flexible  option  such  as  SuDoc  stem  or  title  selection  in  the  Depository  Library 
Program.  This  would  eliminate  the  need  for  52  regionals,  including  the  Super-Regionals,  to 
acquire  and  maintain  ALL  documents  distributed  by  GPO  while  developing  strong, 
comprehensive  subject-  and  geographical-based  "regional"  collections  in  each  of  the  10 
Federal  Depository  Regions.  Also,  as  with  the  National  Collection,  "fugitive"  documents 
could  more  easily  be  brought  into  the  program  if  procurement  of  some  documents  were 
limited  to  10  Super-Regionals  as  opposed  to  52  regional  depositories.  Selective  depository 
libraries  in  each  state  would  also  be  encouraged  to  develop  strong  subject-based  collections  in 
cooperation  with  neighboring  depositories  to  complement  rather  than  duplicate  collections.  In 
this  scenario,  local  participants  could  build  the  strongest  network  possible  by  using  their 
combined,  unique  knowledge  of  their  region,  libraries,  and  patron  needs. 

With  the  rapid  advancement  of  electronic  technologies  and  products,  more  and  more 
information  will  be  made  available  electronically  and  the  capability  of  electronic  file  transfer 
will  greatly  reduce  the  need  for  warehousing  as  much  information  as  is  presently  required. 
With  GPO's  proposed  development  and  implementation  of  FIND,  the  Federal  Information 
Directory,  a  comprehensive  Federal  information  product  and  service  locator  system,  in 
conjunction  with  advanced  delivery  systems  and  electronic  transmission  capabilities 
unavailable  at  the  conception  of  the  Depository  Library  Program  as  we  now  know  it,  a 
reduction  in  hard  copy  distribution  to  depository  libraries  could  be  achieved  without 


42 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


appreciably  limiting  or  restricting  access  to  information.  The  substantial  savings  to  GPO  in 
the  Printing  and  Binding  budget  and  reduction  in  distribution  costs  would  enable  GPO  to 
reallocate  funds  to  the  development  and  support  of  Electronic  Depositories  or  Federal 
Electronic  Distribution  Sites  (FEDS).  Electronic  dissemination  along  with  the  change  from 
Regionals  to  Super-Regionals  could  allow  for  a  reallocation  of  funds  so  that  financing 
limitations  at  all  levels  of  the  system  would  be  less  harmful  to  the  overall  goal  of  information 
dissemination  and  retrieval. 

Questions  to  be  answered  include: 

  Would  current  regionals  or  other  large  libraries  be  willing  to  take  on  the  responsibility 
of  serving  a  larger  area? 

  What  are  the  incentives  for  becoming  a  Super-Regional? 

  How  would  the  Super-Regional  concept  mesh  with  other  components  of  the  Depository 
program?  Would  the  current  regionals  disappear? 

  Would  the  10-region  concept  of  5-state  groupings  work  within  the  current  depository 
structure  in  which  geographical  distribution  of  depository  libraries  is  very  uneven? 

  How  would  this  system  compare  in  cost  with  the  current  system?  At  what  level  and 
by  whom  will  costs  be  absorbed? 

  Does  it  reach  all  user  groups? 

  Is  access  for  the  user  quick  enough  to  be  useful  and  is  access  certain? 

  If  libraries  were  not  willing  to  become  Super-Regionals,  would  a  more  attractive 
alternative  be  to  use  this  same  multi-state  region  but  have  Regional  or  Super-Regional 
responsibilities  shared  by  several  libraries  within  the  area? 

E.   Creation  of  a  System  of  Electronic  Depositories  or  Federal  Electronic  Distribution 
Sites  (FEDS) 

The  Electronic  Depository  concept  is  based  on  the  premise  that  the  effective  use  of 
electronic  products  requires  special  expertise  and  hardware  and  software  technologies  not 
currently  available  in  many  depository  libraries.  As  more  sophisticated  products  are  brought 
into  the  depository  system,  a  way  must  be  found  to  use  these  sources  in  an  effective,  efficient 
manner. 

Electronic  depositories  would  evolve  from  those  depositories  currently  providing  the 
optimum  level  of  service  to  the  general  public  and  from  other  depositories  wishing  to  develop 
advanced  services  by  specializing  in  electronic  products  and  services.  As  designated 
"electronic  libraries",  these  depositories  would  agree  to  select  depository  electronic  products 
and  services  as  they  become  available,  regardless  of  electronic  format.  Such  electronic 
depositories  might  or  might  not  also  collect  selected  depository  items  in  paper. 


43 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Electronic  depository  libraries  would  take  responsibility  not  only  for  receiving  electronic 
products  but  also  for  providing  support  to  others  for  access  to  electronic  information.  This 
type  of  agreement  would  necessarily  charge  these  sites  with  a  commitment  to  learn  the 
developing  technologies  and  to  provide  service  to  their  constituents.  Such  services  might 
include  training  in  the  use  of  the  systems,  the  development  of  user-friendly  front-ends  for 
certain  products,  or  other  activities  intended  to  facilitate  the  use  of  electronic  government 
information. 

In  return  for  this  enhanced  responsibility,  these  depositories  should  receive  supplemental 
support.  For  example,  a  technological  advisor  might  be  provided  for  at  least  one  electronic 
site  in  each  of  the  10  Federal  Depository  Regions.  This  position  could  be  funded  jointly  by 
the  Government  Printing  Office  and  appropriations  from  each  state  in  the  Region.  Each 
technological  advisor  would  be  expected  to  travel  to  other  designated  electronic  sites  within 
the  Region  to  assist  in  training  and  development  for  those  sites.  Staff  at  those  sites  would  in 
turn  serve  as  resource  persons  for  other  depository  libraries  in  the  area  not  designated  as 
electronic  libraries. 

With  the  further  development  of  NREN/Internet  and  with  the  establishment  of  the 
Government  Printing  Office  as  the  "gateway"  to  agency  electronic  information,  it  would  be 
necessary  for  some  FEDS  to  become  nodes  to  provide  access  to  the  information  infrastructure 
for  those  depository  libraries  not  yet  connected.  The  electronic  site  structure  may  develop 
slowly  at  first  with  only  a  handful  of  libraries  willing  to  make  such  a  drastic  commitment,  but 
as  expertise  is  shared  and  more  libraries  become  willing  to  embrace  the  technology,  the 
emphasis  will  shift  much  more  dramatically  from  the  printed  product  to  the  electronic  world. 
There  is  a  real  opportunity  for  economic  efficiency  if  we  can  learn  to  use  electronic  products 
effectively  and  for  improving  access  to  certain  information. 

Questions  to  be  answered  include: 

  Would  current  regionals  or  other  large  libraries  be  willing  to  take  on  the  responsibility 
of  having  this  technological  expertise  and  serving  a  larger  area? 

  What  are  the  incentives  for  becoming  an  Electronic  Depository? 

  How  would  the  Electronic  Depository  concept  mesh  with  other  components  of  the 
Depository  program? 

  How  would  this  system  compare  in  cost  with  the  current  system?  At  what  level  and 
by  whom  will  costs  be  absorbed? 

  Does  it  reach  all  user  groups? 

  Is  access  for  the  user  quick  enough  to  be  useful  and  is  access  certain?  - 


44 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


F.  Require  libraries  to  meet  minimum  technical  guidelines  to  be  full  participants  in  the 
system.  Libraries  unable  to  meet  the  guidelines  could  continue  to  receive  core 
collection  publications  but  not  receive  electronic  data  or  other  publications  beyond 
the  core. 

This  scenario  is  a  variation  on  the  electronic  depositories  scenario.  Rather  than  having 
some  libraries  specifically  designated  as  electronic  depositories,  with  all  the  associated 
responsibilities,  this  proposal  requires  all  depository  libraries  to  meet  the  minimum  technical 
guidelines  in  order  to  be  a  "full-fledged"  depository  library.  The  minimum  technical 
guidelines  should  become  requirements,  not  just  guidelines,  and  be  included  in  the 
"Instructions  to  Depository  Libraries. "  If  a  library  truly  wants  to  be  a  full-fledged  depository 
library,  then  it  will  have  to  have  the  required  minimum  workstation  configuration  and 
software,  and  be  able  to  provide  the  associated  reference  service  necessary  to  access  this 
information. 

Those  libraries  that  are  unable  to  meet  the  minimum  technical  guidelines  could  continue 
to  be  in  the  Depository  Library  Program,  but  they  would  receive  only  a  core  collection  of 
government  information,  in  either  paper  or  microfiche.  None  of  the  materials  that  these 
libraries  receive  would  be  in  electronic  format,  and  therefore  they  would  not  need  the 
hardware,  software,  and  technical  expertise. 

Some  libraries  may  never  have  the  necessary  funds  to  purchase  the  equipment  needed  to 
meet  the  minimum  technical  guidelines.  What  service  will  these  libraries  be  able  to  provide 
to  their  users  if  they  have  a  CD-ROM,  but  no  workstation  in  which  to  play  it?  On  the  other 
hand,  such  a  library  could  serve  to  provide  its  users  with  basic  core  government  information 
and  to  refer  its  users  to  another  depository  who  can  provide  information  beyond  the  core. 

G.  Build  on  Existing  Strengths  to  Create  a  System  of  Subject-Based  Regionals 

Many  current  depository  librariesboth  regional  and  selectivehave  developed  significant 
expertise  in  one  or  more  subject  areas.  The  subject-based  regional  concept  draws  upon  this 
developed  expertise  to  provide  relief  to  those  regionals  having  difficulties  due  to  lack  of 
space,  staff,  and/or  funding.  Selective  depositories  with  expertise  in  specific  subject  areas  or 
those  willing  to  develop  expertise  in  specific  subject  areas  could  accept  the  obligations  of 
comprehensive  collection  and  service  in  their  specialization. 

The  subject-based  regional  concept  would  enhance  an  invigorated  effort  to  bring  about 
closer  cooperation  between  the  information  creators  (agencies),  the  information  disseminators 
(GPO)  and  information  access  points  (libraries)  to  insure  that  information  products  are  used  to 
their  full  potential.  By  having  a  smaller  pool  of  contacts  for  specific  subjects,  these 
relationships  would  have  an  improved  chance  of  developing  into  a  very  effective  tool  for 
improved  communication. 

Many  of  the  factors  important  in  the  Super-Regional  concept  would  be  valid  here: 

  Ability  of  the  library  to  take  on  an  added  role; 


45 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


  Willingness  to  accept  the  responsibilities  for  training,  dissemination,  archival 
functions,  and  reference  assistance  within  a  subject  field; 

  Prospects  for  bringing  more  "fugitive"  documents  into  the  system  since  fewer  copies 
might  be  needed  for  special  subject  collections. 

Questions  to  be  answered  include: 

  Would  current  regionals  or  other  large  libraries  be  willing  to  take  on  the  responsibility 
of  serving  a  larger  area? 

  What  are  the  incentives  for  becoming  a  Subject-based  Regional? 

  How  would  the  Subject-based  Regional  concept  mesh  with  other  components  of  the 
Depository  program?  Would  the  current  regionals  disappear?  What  geographic  area 
would  Subject-based  Regionals  be  expected  to  serve? 

  How  would  this  system  compare  in  cost  with  the  current  system?  At  what  level  and 
by  whom  will  costs  be  absorbed? 

  Does  it  reach  all  user  groups? 

  Is  access  for  the  user  quick  enough  to  be  useful  and  is  access  certain? 

It  should  be  noted  that  there  may  be  some  significant  overlap  and  blending  of  possibilities 
within  four  of  the  scenarios,  the  national  library,  the  super-regional,  the  subject-based 
regional,  and  the  electronic  depository.  For  example: 

  Could  a  Subject-based  Depository  for  Environmental  Protection  also  be  the  Electronic 
Depository  as  well  as  serve  as  the  National  Collection  for  this  topic? 

  Could  a  Super-Regional  serve  as  the  National  Collection  for  a  particular  topic  based 
on  geographical  area? 

  With  new  technologies  providing  instant  access  -  would  an  exceptional  National 
Collection  library  do  away  with  the  need  for  Super  Regionals?  Would  it  be  a  better 
use  of  resources  to  concentrate  everything  at  that  level  except  for  selective 
depositories? 


H.  Restructure  the  Depository  program  to  recognize  a  new  role  for  the  depositories 
when  electronic  government  information  comes  through  a  networlt  or  a  single  point 
of  access,  such  as  the  GPO  Gateway/Windo.  Recognize  that  the  DLP  creates  a 
foundation  for  building  electronic  dissemination  systems,  and  that  it  can  be  a 
primary  element  in  an  active  Federal  information  dissemination  program 

Should  there  even  be  a  Federal  Depository  Library  Program  in  an  age  dominated  by 
electronic  publishing  on  the  Federal  level?  Is  there  a  role  for  a  system  of  library  centers. 


46 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


geographically  dispersed,  acting  primarily  as  information  repositories  in  an  environment 
where  information  can  be  distributed  from  point  of  origin  directly  to  point  of  use  without 
need  for  transmission  through  or  storage  in  a  library? 

In  response  to  these,  and  other  similar  questions,  technologists,  and  many  in  government, 
often  argue  that  the  need  for  library  service,  such  as  the  DLP,  will  diminish  as  individuals 
obtain  the  ability  to  access  information  via  electronic  channels.  They  see  a  system  of 
Depository  Libraries  as  an  anachronism  in  an  information  environment  based  on  high  speed 
computer  networks  and  such  services  as  a  GPO  Gateway,  a  program  like  the  NTIS 
FedWorld,  or  a  Government-wide  Inventory  Information/Locator  System  (GIILS)  like  the  one 
proposed  by  Charles  McClure  and  his  associates.  Certainly,  under  such  scenarios,  the 
traditional  role  of  depository  libraries  as  repositories  of  Federal  information  offers  less  to  the 
information  user.  Those  people  who  can  gain  access  to  the  government  information  they  need 
directly  from  their  homes,  schools,  and  offices,  or  through  "information  kiosks"  located  in 
various  public  centers,  are  less  likely  to  use  depository  libraries. 

Other  commonly  acknowledged  barriers  to  the  DLP  playing  a  significant  role  in  a  system 
featuring  direct  access  to  the  databases  of  Federal  agencies  are: 

  Many  DLP  libraries  do  not  and  will  not  have  the  technological  resources  to  effectively 
handle  electronic  information; 

  Many  DLP  libraries  cannot,  or  are  unwilling  to,  support  the  costs  of  handling 
electronic  information  or  commit  their  resources  to  it; 

  Federal  agencies  are  not  willing  to  consign  the  dissemination  of  their  electronic 
information  to  the  GPO; 

  There  is  no  legal  authority  for  an  electronic  DLP; 

  GPO  is  unwilling,  or  unable,  to  carry  out  the  DLP  effectively; 

  GPO  is  primarily  the  printer,  binder,  and  sales  jobber  for  Congress  and  the  executive 
agencies  and  the  DLP  is  only  a  secondary  part  of  its  mission; 

  Goals  of  the  institutions  controlling  DLP  libraries  do  not  necessarily  support  the 
principles  of  the  program; 

  Ownership  and  care-taking  aspects  of  information  handling  are  unclear  where 
electronic  information  is  concerned;  and 

  The  DLP  libraries  have  a  number  of  weaknesses  including  poorly  trained  staff, 
substantial  variations  in  quality  of  service,  ineffective  use  of  technology,  poor 
geographic  distribution,  and  a  diverse  assortment  of  libraries  rather  than  an 
interlocking  network. 

Nevertheless,  imagination  and  dreams  of  a  network  Utopia  often  cause  us  to  overlook  the 
fact  that  depository  libraries  are  more  than  geographically  dispersed  repositories.  The  idea  of 


47 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

replacing  the  DLP  with  a  high-performance  communication  network  serving  citizens  through 
gateways  and  GIILS-like  systems  is  supported  mainly  by  several  underlying  assumptions.  The 
first  is  that  public  and  private  resources  will  be  available  for,  and  will  be  committed  to 
building  a  government  information  network  from  the  top  down.  The  second  assumption  is  that 
a  single  point/direct  access  system  will  connect  widely  distributed  and  diverse  Federal  systems 
in  such  a  way  as  to  be  easily  accessible  and  easily  manipulated  by  the  user.  The  third  is  that 
this  system  will  be  the  most  cost  effective  for  the  Federal  agencies  and  affordable  to  all 
potential  users. 

In  order  to  duplicate  and  enhance  what  a  system  of  electronically  connected  libraries 
could  attain,  a  dissemination  system  must: 

  Provide  actual  comprehensive/single  point  access  to  a  vast  array  of  Federal 
information  resources  in  a  variety  of  formats  which  represent  historical  as  well  as 
current  data; 

  Provide  equity  of  access  to  the  public  regardless  of  technological  ability  or  ability  to 
pay  for  the  information  and  some  form  of  free  access  to  all  Federal  information 
resources; 

  Prove  more  cost  effective  to  the  government  than  supporting  programs  such  as  the 
DLP  as  a  part  of  the  system's  foundation  infrastructure; 

  Meet  a  wide  variety  of  information  dissemination  needs  for  Federal  agencies; 

  Meet  the  diverse,  specific,  and  esoteric  information  needs  of  the  general  public, 
educators,  students,  researchers,  and  business  people; 

  Provide  a  means  as  an  alternative  to  libraries  to  insure  local  connectivity  to  the 
dominant  communication  network; 

  Provide  an  infrastructure  of  human  resources  that  will  support  the  need  for 
professional  consultation  and  guidance,  research  assistance,  and  public  training. 

The  proposition  that  the  DLP  provides  an  "information  safety-net"  for  those  individuals 
who  cannot  afford  either  the  technology  or  to  pay  for  access  to  electronic  information  is  not 
an  argument  upon  which  the  DLP  should  base  its  continued  existence  as  part  of  the  Federal 
electronic  information  dissemination  system.  It  relegates  the  DLP  to  a  minor  role  in  access  to 
government  information  resources.  Although  it  is  true  that  the  DLP  can  provide  a  system  of 
last  resort  for  people  without  institutional  affiliations,  or,  who  cannot  pay  for  the  information, 
it  implies  that  the  information  provided  through  the  DLP  will  be  in  the  least  desirable  and 
cheapest  form,  and  that  it  will  be  only  information  without  charge  or  with  a  lower  user  fee. 
In  addition,  it  does  not  support  the  mission  of  the  DLP  as  envisioned  under  the  legislation  that 
established  the  program  as  being  one  of  the  major  providers  of  primary  government 
information  resources. 

What  are  the  primary  features  that  give  the  DLP  an  important  role  to  play  as  first,  a 
foundation  for  building  electronic  dissemination  systems,  and,  second,  as  a  primary  element 


48 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


in  a  Federal  information  dissemination  program?  Supporters  of  the  DLP  argue  that: 

  The  program  provides  readily  established  connectivity  to  local,  state,  and  regional 
networks  carrying  government  information  resources; 

  The  DLP  offers  an  established  infrastructure  of  service  points  requiring  less 
investment  of  public  funds  to  enhance  and  a  channel  for  institutional  funding; 

  The  DLP  librarians  are  quickly  developing  their  knowledge  and  use  of  network 
services  and  electronic  systems; 

  DLP  libraries  are  committing  more  resources  to  access  to  information  as  well  as  to 
acquiring  and  storing  it; 

  DLP  libraries  provide  an  array  of  resources  in  hardcopy  formats  and  in  human  ability 
that  cannot  be  matched  by  individuals  using  gateway  or  GIILS  type  services  from 
home  or  office; 

  The  DLP  has  the  best  potential  for  developing  a  comprehensive  information  and 
research  service  for  the  general  public,  educators,  students,  researchers,  business 
people,  and  people  with  specialized  information  needs;  and 

  The  DLP  provides  service  and  training  to  users  regardless  of  social  status,  knowledge 
of  the  technology,  or  the  ability  to  pay  for  electronic  information,  in  a  politically 
neutral,  community  environment. 

I.    Rename  the  program  to  recognize  changes  brought  on  by  the  era  of  electronic 
information 

The  name  "Depository  Library  Program"  is  too  restrictive  and  not  appropriate  in  an  era 
of  electronic  information.  Webster's  definition  of  depository  reads  "a  place  where  something 
is  deposited  especially  for  safekeeping."  The  citizen  soon  will  have  access  to  information  in 
many  formats  including  active  and  interactive  formats  which  will  never  be  stored  or  deposited 
in  the  local  collection. 

The  name  "depository  libraries"  also  is  not  recognizable  to  most  citizens.  Unless  a 
citizen  has  prior  knowledge  that  depository  libraries  contain  collections  of  Federal 
information,  these  libraries  are  probably  the  best  kept  secret  around.  Even  if  a  major 
marketing  effort  were  undertaken  to  improve  and  increase  library  use,  the  name  itself  would 
handicap  these  efforts. 

As  a  suggestion,  the  name  "Federal  Information  Program"  reflects  clearly  the  purpose 
and  content  of  the  program.  Individual  libraries  could  then  be  designated  as  "Federal 
Information  Centers"  for  their  communities. 


49 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

J.    Downsize  the  program  to  meet  budgetary  constraints 

The  Depository  Library  Program  has  been  under  almost  continuous  budgetary  pressure  in 
recent  years,  as  the  costs  of  running  the  program  have  far  exceeded  the  available  resources. 
The  primary  response  of  the  Government  Printing  Office  to  these  pressures  has  been  to  make 
much  of  the  information  available  in  less  costly  alternative  formats,  primarily  microform. 
For  example,  despite  the  fundamental  importance  of  the  bound  Congressional  Record,  it  is 
now  distributed  in  paper  only  to  the  regional  depositories.  Other  depositories  receive  it  on 
microform  or  have  to  pay  to  obtain  it  in  paper.  Many  other  publications  are  also  only 
available  in  microform,  while  some  are  available  in  both  paper  and  microform  in  the 
expectation  that  some  libraries  will  select  the  less  costly  alternative. 

The  rationale  for  this  approach  has  been  that  the  Government  Printing  Office  can  meet  its 
legal  obligation  to  distribute  the  publications  by  doing  it  in  a  less  costly  way.  On  the  other 
hand,  for  the  basic  core  material  heavily  used  by  depository  patrons,  it  is  a  disservice  to  the 
user  and  to  the  program  itself  to  distribute  the  material  in  ways  that  make  it  less  accessible 
and  less  useful.  As  more  material  is  distributed  in  less  accessible  formats  the  program  is  less 
relevant  to  meeting  the  needs  of  an  information  user. 

Rather  than  letting  the  whole  program  deteriorate,  serious  thought  should  be  given  to 
maintaining  the  quality  of  the  program  on  a  smaller  scale.  Converting  selected  materials  to 
microform  is  only  a  piecemeal  solution.  The  problems  of  the  program  are  pervasive,  and 
radical  approaches  may  be  required  for  the  program  to  survive.  Such  radical  approaches  are 
necessary  because  fundamentally,  it  is  not  possible  to  continue  to  disseminate  the  same 
amount  of  material  to  the  same  or  a  larger  number  of  libraries  with  the  same  or  fewer 
resources  without  making  significant  changes including  either  downsizing  or  massive 
conversion  to  electronic  dissemination. 

This  fact  was  demonstrated  clearly  in  the  fall  of  1992,  when  the  program  confronted  a 
crisis  in  which  it  became  clear  that  further  conversion  to  microfilm  threatens  the  program 
itself.  Then,  in  response  to  a  10  percent  budgetary  shortfall,  the  Government  Printing  Office 
asked  libraries  to  reduce  their  selections  and  specifically  targeted  a  number  of  "big  ticket 
items"  for  conversion  to  microform,  including  the  Serial  Set,  the  Code  of  Federal 
Regulations,  the  U.S.  Code,  and  other  basic  materials.  To  many,  these  are  the  most 
fundamental  documents  about  the  operation  of  the  government  that  justify  the  very  existence 
of  the  program.  In  striking  a  blow  here,  GPO  struck  at  the  heart  of  the  program  itself. 

It  should  be  clear  that  if  Congress  is  not  going  to  provide  the  program  with  more  funds, 
other  fundamental  changes  will  have  to  take  place.  GPO  can  either  stop  printing  and 
distributing  material  when  they  run  out  of  money  or  they  can  make  proposals  to  Congress  for 
ways  to  downsize  the  program  and  its  costs. 

There  are  several  possibilities  for  downsizing  the  depository  program  which  would  result 
in  the  distribution  of  fewer  materials  and  reducing  the  cost  to  GPO,  This,  in  turn,  should 


See  discussion  at  nt.  6,  supra. 


50 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


permit  GPO  to  maintain  the  quality  of  the  program  without  further  conversions  to  microform. 
No  proposal  for  downsizing  will  be  popular.  Some  library  or  group  of  libraries  will  feel  the 
pain.  Painful  though  it  is,  some  effort  to  downsize  seems  necessary  if  the  program  is  to 
survive  at  all.  Several  possibilities  for  downsizing  are  listed  below  in  order  of  increasing 
difficulty, 

1.  Downsize  by  reducing  the  amount  of  material  selected  by  each  library. 

Either  voluntarily,  or  through  the  establishment  of  a  ceiling  on  selections,  each  library  ~ 
perhaps  even  including  the  regionals  ~  could  be  asked  to  reduce  the  amount  of  material  it 
acquires.  In  the  past,  libraries  were  encouraged  to  acquire  a  large  number  of  items;  there 
was  even  an  expectation  that  every  library  would  select  a  minimum  of  25  %  of  the  available 
items,  whether  they  needed  that  material  or  not.  In  a  time  of  financial  difficulty,  such 
assumptions  are  no  longer  valid. 

Instead  of  encouraging  each  library  to  select  more  than  they  really  need,  each  library 
should  select  only  those  items  likely  to  be  needed  to  serve  its  constituency.  Under  this  plan, 
regionals  might  be  permitted  to  select  everything,  but  need  not  do  so.  Selectives  would  be 
asked  to  review  the  items  they  select  with  their  primary  depository  constituencies  in  mind. 
Instead  of  minimum  selection  targets,  ceiling  targets    rules  of  thumb  ~  might  be  established 
to  help  libraries  decide  what  might  be  appropriate.  For  example,  large  research  libraries 
might  select  50  to  90  percent,  mid-sized  libraries  might  select  20  to  50  percent,  and  law 
libraries  might  select  7  to  15  percent. 

To  help  libraries  hone  their  selections,  GPO  should  also  refine  its  item  numbers  to  allow 
libraries  to  be  more  precise  in  their  selections.  It  is  widely  acknowledged  that  the  current 
item  numbers  are  quite  broad,  and  that  many  libraries  receive  more  than  they  really  want 
because  they  must  take  a  large  category  of  materials  to  receive  the  few  items  really  needed. 

2.  Downsize  by  eliminating  selective  housing  arrangements. 

A  corollary  of  the  need  to  downsize  and  the  need  to  ask  libraries  to  select  no  more  than 
they  really  need  is  a  need  to  eliminate  entirely  selective  housing  arrangements.  Under  this 
program,  depositories  select  materials  they  don't  really  need  and  send  them  to  another  library 
for  "housing".  These  arrangements  effectively  increase  the  number  of  depository  libraries 
and  the  amount  of  material  distributed  under  the  program.  For  example,  in  the  years  before 
law  libraries  became  depositories,  it  was  not  uncommon  for  another  depository  on  a 
university  campus  to  select  legal  materials  not  really  needed  in  their  collection  and  send  them 
to  the  law  library.  Although  this  arrangement  met  a  significant  need,  it  has  the  effect  of 
increasing  the  costs  of  the  program.  In  an  era  of  financial  stringency,  it  seems  entirely 
appropriate  to  insist  that  only  those  libraries  that  have  been  named  as  depositories  should  be 
able  to  collect  and  hold  the  material  they  acquire.  Elimination  of  such  arrangements  would 
leave  the  total  number  of  validly  designated  depository  libraries  unchanged. 


51 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 

3.    Downsize  by  reducing  the  number  of  depository  libraries. 

If  the  foregoing  measures  do  not  result  in  sufficient  savings,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
confront  the  difficult  political  question  of  finding  ways  to  reduce  the  total  number  of 
depository  libraries.  Reduction  in  the  number  of  libraries  in  the  program  will  be  the  most 
painful  solution,  but  may  have  to  be  done  in  order  to  keep  the  program  from  sinking  of  its 
own  weight.  With  over  1400  depository  libraries  throughout  the  nation,  there  are  an  average 
of  28  in  each  state.  Realistically,  it  may  be  that  that  number  would  have  to  be  reduced  to  24 
or  25,  or  even  fewer.  In  all  likelihood,  if  done  carefully,  that  step  could  be  taken  without 
significant  damage  to  the  overall  program. 

How  is  it  possible  to  reduce  the  number  of  libraries  in  the  program?  What  libraries 
would  be  terminated?  This  is  obviously  the  most  difficult  of  areas,  and  an  answer  probably 
requires  a  re-examination  of  some  of  the  program's  premises.  Two  fundamental  aspects  of 
the  program  are  the  Congressional  designation  and  the  requirement  of  public  access. 

a.  One  Congressional  designation  per  district. 

Under  the  depository  library  law,  each  Congressional  district  is  entitled  to  have  two 
depository  libraries.  However,  over  the  years,  when  redistricting  has  occurred,  a  district 
might  have  ended  up  with  more  than  two  depository  libraries  and  a  new  district  created 
without  any.  This  situation  has  resulted  in  the  designation  of  extra  Congressional  depositories 
in  individual  Congressional  districts.  In  the  past,  such  libraries  have  been  grand-parented  in, 
and  have  not  been  required  to  leave  the  program.  At  a  time  when  the  program  does  not  have 
sufficient  financial  resources  to  stay  afloat,  however,  Congressional  delegates  may  have  to 
decide  which  of  the  libraries  they  will  designate,  and  eliminate  the  other(s).  The  program  can 
no  longer  afford  redundancy  in  Congressional  designations. 

b.  Federal  Libraries. 

In  many  cities,  a  significant  number  of  Federal  libraries  are  designated  as  depositories. 
This  number  cannot  be  justified  for  public  access  reasons,  and  many  Federal  libraries  are  not 
open  to  the  public.  A  review  should  be  conducted  of  all  Federal  libraries  participating  in  the 
depository  program.  If  they  are  not  meeting  the  purposes  of  the  program,  their  participation 
should  be  terminated. 


c.  Libraries  that  do  not  meet  their  public  access  obligation. 

Public  access  to  the  depository  collection  is  a  primary  obligation  assumed  by  each 
depository  library.  All  participating  libraries  should  be  reminded  of  this  obligation,  and 
where  they  fail  to  meet  the  obligation  they  should  be  terminated  from  the  program. 


52 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


d.  Leave  it  to  the  state  delegations. 

If  the  foregoing  does  not  result  in  a  sufficient  reduction  in  the  number  of  depository 
libraries  to  balance  the  budget,  then  each  state  may  have  to  be  given  a  ceiling  ~  perhaps 
based  on  population  or  area,  or  some  combination  of  the  two'^  ~  in  the  number  of  libraries 
that  can  be  supported.  Each  Congressional  state  delegation  could  meet  to  decide  which 
libraries  were  most  important  to  the  program  and  which  they  could  continue  to  support. 

4.   Downsize  by  developing  high  quality  electronic  information  systems  that  could 
adequately  meet  the  need  for  certain  information  products. 

Even  while  this  downsizing  is  going  on,  GPO  should  move  aggressively  to  develop 
effective  alternative  delivery  systems  that,  unlike  microform,  could  meet  the  needs  of  users 
for  access  to  information  and  eliminate  the  need  for  costly  paper  distribution. 

Paper  is  expensive  for  libraries  to  store  as  well  as  for  the  Government  Printing  Office  to 
print  and  distribute.  If  reliable  and  effective  means  were  developed  for  the  delivery  of  some 
information  electronically,  it  would  be  less  necessary  for  libraries  to  go  to  the  expense  of 
acquiring  and  housing  the  documents.  They  would,  no  doubt,  continue  to  select  in  paper  the 
items  they  considered  central  to  their  mission.  However,  in  many  cases,  electronic 
dissemination  could  substantially  replace  paper  distribution. 

TV.  Process  for  the  Future 

This  paper  has  been  written  by  the  members  of  the  Depository  Library  Council  to 
stimulate  a  discussion  about  the  future  of  the  Depository  Library  Program.  We  have  tried  to 
state  a  number  of  assumptions  about  the  future,  and  working  within  those  assumptions,  tried 
to  develop  a  number  of  alternative  scenarios  for  the  future  of  the  program.  This  report 
contains  a  great  many  different  ideas,  and  no  one  on  the  Council  agrees  with  everything  in 
the  report.  However,  we  do  agree  that  the  depository  program  needs  to  be  re-structured  to 
meet  the  challenges  created  by  the  economy  and  the  development  of  new  technology.  We 
further  agree  that  the  ideas  presented  here  deserve  to  be  debated  in  the  hope  of  coming  to  a 
new  consensus  about  a  new  future  for  the  depository  program. 

The  Council  distributed  an  earlier  draft  of  this  paper  for  discussion  at  the  Federal 
Depository  Conference  in  April  1993.  That  draft  also  served  as  the  basis  for  extensive 
discussion  of  the  issues  that  it  treated  during  the  spring  meeting  of  the  Depository  Library 
Council  on  May  17-18,  1993. 

After  that.  Council  plans  to  disseminate  it  more  broadly  and  solicit  comments  from  many 
of  the  stakeholders:  the  depository  community  in  general,  the  Government  Printing  Office, 
Federal  agencies,  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget,  the  information  industry,  and 


"  Double  the  number  of  Representatives  and  Senators  would  result  in  1290  depositories,  a  reduction  of  over  100.  If  that 
doesn't  go  far  enough,  1.5  times  the  same  number  would  result  in  973  depositories.  1,000  depositories  across  the  50  states 
would  go  a  long  way  toward  meeting  the  needs  of  the  people. 


53 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

members  of  Congress,  especially  those  serving  on  the  Joint  Committee  on  Printing,  the 
Subcommittee  on  Government  Information  of  the  House  Committee  on  Government 
Operations,  and  the  Subcommittee  on  Government  Information  and  Regulation  of  the  Senate 
Committee  on  Governmental  Affairs. 

Following  that  discussion,  Council  will  consider  revising  the  report,  adding  to  it  any 
recommendations  that  reflect  a  consensus  among  the  parties.  To  the  extent  that 
implementation  requires  Congressional  action  or  decisions  from  the  Government  Printing 
Office,  it  is  hoped  that  those  bodies  will  follow  up  directly  on  the  recommendations  made  by 
the  final  report. 


Please  fill  out  and  return  the  Comment  Sheet! 

Your  comments  and  concerns  are  very  important  to  us!  Please  fill  out  the  comment  sheet  on 
the  following  pages  and  return  it  before  August  31,  1993.  Send  it  to: 

Jack  Sulzer 

General  Reference  Section 
Penn  State  University 
E108  Pattee  Library 
University  Park,  PA  16802 

814/865-3819 
Fax:  814/865-1015 
E-Mail:  jhs@psulias.bitnet  or 
ui9@psuvm.bitnet 


54 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


"Alternatives  for  Restructuring" 
COUNCIL  REPORT  COMMENT  SHEET 

(Optional) 

Name:    E-mail:   

Institution  Phone: 


I.    History  and  Objectives 

Is  the  amount  of  history  presented  in  the  report: 

 Too  much   Too  littie   Correct  amount 

 Other  comments  (use  back  of  sheet) 

Are  the  values  and  objectives  adequately  represented  in  the  report? 
_____  Yes         No   Other  comments 

n.  Assumptions 

Is  anything  missing? 

 Yes  (if  so,  what?)   No          Other  comments 

Do  you  agree  with  assumptions? 

 Yes   Which  ones? 

 No   Which  ones? 

 Other  comments 

in.     Alternative  Scenarios 

A  number  of  scenarios  for  restructuring  the  DLP  are  presented  in  this  report.  Please  indicate 
which  ones  you  could  support,  for  those  you  don't  support  -  indicate  why  not,  and  any 
changes  or  modifications  you  would  make  to  them. 

A.  Multiple  Service  Levels 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No  ____  Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

B.  Direct  Support  Model 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

C.  Creation  of  a  National  Collection  of  Last  Resort 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

D.  Creation  of  a  Network  of  Super-Regionals 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  


55 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

Additional  comments: 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

E.  Creation  of  a  System  of  Electronic  Depositories  or  Federal  Electronic  Distribution 
Sites  (FEDS) 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No        Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

F.  Require  libraries  to  meet  minimum  technical  guidelines  to  be  full  participants  in 
the  system. 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

G.  Build  on  existing  strengths  to  create  a  system  of  subject-based  Regionals. 
Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

H.  Restructure  the  Depository  Program  to  recognize  a  new  role  for  depositories  when 
electronic  government  information  comes  through  a  network  or  single  point  of 
access. 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

I.  Rename  program  to  recognize  changes  brought  on  by  the  era  of  electronic 
information. 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

J.       Downsize  the  program  to  meet  budgetary  constraints. 

1.  Downsize  by  reducing  the  amount  of  material  selected  by  each  library. 
Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

2.  Downsize  by  eliminating  selective  housing  arrangements. 
Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

3.  Downsize  by  reducing  the  number  of  depository  libraries. 
Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

4.  Downsize  by  developing  high  quality  electronic  information  systems  that 
could  adequately  meet  the  need  for  certain  information  products. 

Do  you  support?   Yes   No   Why  not? 

Any  changes  or  modifications?  

Are  there  other  scenarios  that  should  be  included  in  this  report? 

Any  other  comments? 


57 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 

Additional  comments: 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Depository  Library  Council  Members 


Term  Expires  September  30,  1993: 

Gary  Cornwell  [PAST  CHAIR] 

Documents  Dept.  -  Library  West 

University  of  Florida  Libraries 

Gainesville,  FL  32611 

(904)  392-0367 

Fax:  (904)  392-7251 

E-Mail:  garcorn@nervm.bitnet 

Susan  E.  Tulis  [SECRETARY] 

Georgetown  University  Law  Library 

111  G  Street  NW 

Washington,  DC  20001 

(202)  662-9200 

Fax:  (202)  662-9202 

E-Mail:  tulis@guvax.georgetown.eciu 

Sandy  Morton-Schwalb 
Director  of  Government  Relations 
Special  Libraries  Association 
1700  18th  St.,  NW 
Washington,  DC  20009 
(202)  234-4700 
Fax:  (202)  265-9317 
E-Mail:  slal@capcon.net 

Robert  Oakley 
Director 

Georgetown  University 

School  of  Law  Library  -  Room  205 

111  G  St.  NW 

Washington,  DC  20001 

(202)  662-9160 

Fax:  (202)  662-9202 

E-Mail:  roakley@guvax.bitnet 


Mark  Vonderhaar 

Director,  New  Products 

Academic  Publishing  Division 

SilverPlatter  Information,  Inc. 

1005  N.  Glebe  Rd.,  Suite  605 

Arlington,  VA  22201 

(703)  527-4780 

Fax:  (703)  527-1072 

E-Mail:  silverpl@access.digex.com 


Term  Expires  September  30,  1994: 

Miriam  A.  Drake 

Dean  and  Director  of  Libraries 

Georgia  Institute  of  Technology 

Atlanta,  GA  30332-0900 

(404)  894-4510 

Fax:  (404)  894-6084 

E-Mail:  mdrake@gtri01.bitnet 

mdrake@gtriO  1 .  gatech .  edu 

Beth  Duston  [CHAIR] 

President,  Information  Strategists 

814  Elm  St. 

Manchester,  NH  03101 

(603)  624-8208 

Fax:  (603)  624-8222 

E-Mail:  71163.1402@compuserve.com 

or  bduston@world.std.com 

Kay  Schlueter  [SECRETARY-ELECT] 

Director,  State  Law  Library 

Tom  C.  Clark  Bldg. 

PO  Box  12367 

Austin,  TX  78711 

(512)  463-1722 

Fax:  (512)  463-1728 


59 


AN-vl4-#  13-6/20/93 


Honorable  Richard  J.  Varn 
State  Senator 

3163  Sandy  Beach  Road,  NE 
Solon,  lA  52333 
(319)  363-9196  (work) 
(319)  848-7533  (home) 
Fax:  (310)  364-4033 

John  H.  Weiner 

Energy  Information  Administration 

U.S.  Dept.  of  Energy 

EI-23,  Room  BG-057  Forrestal 

Washington,  DC  20585 

(202)  586-6537 

Fax:  (202)  586-0114 


Term  Expires  September  30,  1995: 

Dr.  William  C.  Cassell 

President,  Heidelberg  College 

310  E.  Market  St. 

Tiffm,  OH  44883 

(419)  448-2202 

Fax:  (419)  448-2124 

E-Mail:  wcassell@heidelberg.edu 

William  W.  Ellis 
Senior  Specialist 
Congressional  Research  Service 
Library  of  Congress  LM-303 
Washington,  DC  20540 
(202)  707-6928 
Fax:  (202)  707-2829 
E-Mail:  well@seql.loc.gov 

Carol  D.  Gordon 
Coordinator 

General  Materials  and  Services  Dept. 

Milwaukee  Public  Library 

814  West  Wisconsin  Ave. 

Milwaukee,  WI  53233 

(414)  286-2167 

Fax:  (414)  286-2137 

E-Mail:  wilson@convex:csd. uwm.edu 


Judith  Rowe 

Manager  of  Research  Services 
Princeton  University  Computing  and 
Information  Technology 
87  Prospect  Ave. 
Princeton,  NJ  08544 
(609)  258-6052 
Fax:  (609)  258-3943 
E-Mail:  judith@pucc.bitnet 

John  (Jack)  H.  Sulzer 
Head,  General  Reference  Section 
Pennsylvania  State  University 
El 08  Pattee  Library 
University  Park,  PA  16802 
(814)  865-3819 
Fax:  (814)  865-1015 
E-Mail:  jhs@psulias.psu.edu  (work) 
ui9@psuvm.bitnet  (home) 


60 


Bringing 
Government 
Information 
to  You 


Information  from  the 
Federal  Government  on 
subjects  ranging  from 
agriculuire  to  zoology  is 
available  at  Depository 
Libraries  across  the 
nation. 

You  can  visit  these 
libraries  and  use  the 
Depository  coUection 
without  charge. 

To  find  one  in  your 
area,  contact  your  local 
library  or  write  to  the 
Federal  Depository' 
Library  Program,  Office 
of  the  Public  Printer, 
Washington,  DC  20401. 


Federal  Depository 
Library  Program 


61 


AN-vl4-#13-6/20/93 


Table  of  Contents 

Summary,  1993  Spring  Council  Meeting   1 

Recommendations,  Depository  Library  Council,  May  27,  1993   11 

Proposed  Charter,  Depository  Library  Council   14 

Report  on  Communications  Committee  Meeting,  April  1993   16 

Alternatives  for  Restructuring  The  Depository  Library  Program  ...............  18 

Alternatives  for  Restructuring:  Council  Report  Comment  Sheet   55 

Depository  Library  Council  Members,  Spring  1993   59 


Administrative  Notes  is  published  in  Washington,  DC  by  the  Superintendent  of 
Documents,  Library  Programs  Service,  Government  Printing  Office,  for  the  staffs  of 
U.S.  Federal  Depository  Libraries.  It  is  generally  published  twice  a  month;  some 
months  have  additional  issues.  Postmaster  send  address  changes  to: 

The  Editor,  Administrative  Notes 
U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Library  Programs  Service,  SLL 
Washington,  D.C.  20401 


62 


