GUIDELINE   C-5 
(formerly  14-06) 


Registration   on   Title  of  Certificates  of  Approval 
for  Waste  Disposal   Sites 


Legislative  Authority: 

Environmental   Protection  Act,    RSO   1990,    Part  V, 
Sections  19  and  27,  Part  XVII,  Section  197 

Responsible  Director: 

Director,  Program  Development  Branch 
Last   Revision  Date: 

April,  1994 


Table   of  Contents 
1 . 0      OBJECTIVE 

1.1  Present  or  Future  Disposal  Sites 

1.2  Past  Disposal  Sites 

1.3  Sites  on  Unpatented  Crown  Land 

2 . 0      POTENTIAL   HAZARDS  FROM  WASTE  DISPOSAL    SITES 

3 .  0      REGISTRATION  ON   TITLE 

3.1  Section  19(1)  EP  Act 

3.2  Registration 

3.3  Section  197,  EP  Act 

4 .  0      BUFFER    ZONES 

4.1  Operating  Waste  Disposal  Sites 

4.2  New  Waste  Disposal  Sites 

5 . 0      ABANDONED    WASTE  DISPOSAL    SITES 

5.1  Director's  Actions 

5.2  Municipalities'  Actions 


SYNOPSIS 

The  primary  purpose  o 

:  this  guideline  is  to  ensure  that 

members  of  the  public 

have  access  to  informat 

ion  about 

municipally  or  privately-owned  lands  used  for 

waste  disposal 

sites.   The  guideline 

covers  the  registration 

on  title  of 

Certificates  of  Approval  and  Provisional  Cert 

ificates  of 

Approval  for  existing 

and  new  waste  disposal 

sites  in  which 

waste  is  disposed  on 

or  in  the  ground,  other 

than  soil 

conditioning  sites. 

The  guideline  will  be 

enforced  by  placing  con 

ditions  on 

applicable  Certificates  of  Approval. 

1 . 0  Objective 

This  guideline  is  designed  to  ensure  that  members  of  the  public 
have  access  to  information  about  municipally  or  privately-owned 
land  used  for  waste  disposal  sites  which  pose  potential  hazards. 

1 . 1  Present   or  Future  Disposal   Sites 

This  guideline  applies  to  all  existing  and  new  waste  disposal 
sites  in  which  waste  is  disposed  on  or  in  the  ground  (other  than 
soil  conditioning  sites) . 

1.2  Past  Disposal   Sites 

This  guideline  does  not  apply  to  abandoned  waste  disposal  sites 
(certified  or  uncertified)  unless  specific  safety  hazards  noted 
in  Section  2,  below,  have  been  identified. 

1.3  Sites   on    Unpatented  Crown   Land 

This  guideline  does  not  apply  to  sites  located  on  unpatented 
Crown  land.   Policy  LM7.04.01  of  the  Ministry  of  Natural 
Resources  requires  MNR  District  Managers  to  advise  the  MOEE  of 
the  location  of  all  existing  and  closed  waste  disposal  sites  on 
public  lands  and  to  ensure  that  the  identified  areas  are  marked 
on  all  pertinent  maps. 

2.0     Potential   Hazards   from  Waste  Disposal   Sites 

Potential  hazards  associated  with  waste  disposal  sites  include: 

(a)  contamination  of  ground  and  surface  water; 

(b)  methane  gas  production  and  migration; 


(c)  leachate  (liquid)  production  and  migration; 

(d)  land  subsidence  due  to  waste  settling  and  decomposition;  and 

(e)  other  hazards. 

3.0  Registration   on   Title 

Requirements  imposed  by  a  Director  upon  any  waste  disposal  site 
as  conditions  in  a  Certificate  or  Provisional  Certificate  of 
Approval  become  part  of  the  Certificate  or  Provisional 
Certificate  of  Approval. 

3.1  Section   19(1)    EP  Act 

Conditions  in  a  Certificate  of  Approval  bind  the  successor  or 
assignee  of  the  interest  in  the  land. 

3.2  Registration 

Registration  on  title  shall  be  implemented  by  the  Director 
requiring  the  Certificate  holder  to  follow  the  appropriate 
registry  procedure  of  either: 

(a)  The  Land   Titles  Act;    or 

(b)  The  Registry  Act. 

3.3  Section   197,    EP  Act 

A  control  document  affecting  land  can  require  that  the  land  not 
be  sold  unless  the  purchaser  is  first  notified  of  the  problem  by 
being  given  a  copy  of  the  control  document;  such  a  requirement 
can  be  registered  on  title  (a  form  to  be  used  for  such 
registration  has  been  prescribed  by  0.  Reg.  14/92  and  0.  Reg. 
15/92  of  the  EP  Act    and  Ontario   Water  Resources  Act, 
respectively) ;  a  purchaser  of  land  can  void  the  purchase  if  the 
purchaser  was  not  given  a  copy  of  the  control  document  as 
required  (EP  Act,    Section  197) .   [Note:   The  requirement  that 
land  not  be  sold  without  a  warning  would  not  be  effective  when 
the  land  is  owned  by  a  corporation  and  a  new  owner  buys  the 
shares  of  the  corporation;  presumably,  persons  conducting 
business  such  as  this  can  protect  themselves.] 

4 . 0  Buffer  Zones 

The  following  provisions  shall  apply  to  buffer  zones  surrounding 
waste  disposal  sites. 

4.1  Operating  Waste  Disposal   Sites 

Registration  on  title  of  buffer  zones  shall  be  required  for  all 
buffer  zones  owned  by  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  waste  disposal 


site.   Where  buffer  zones  are  not  owned  by  the  owner  or  operator 
of  the  site,  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  site  shall  be  required 
by  the  Director  to  carry  out  a  study  of  the  potential  hazards  and 
implement  remedial  measures. 

4.2     New  Waste  Disposal   Sites 

The  buffer  zones  for  all  new  waste  disposal  sites  shall  be  owned 
by  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  site  and  shall  be  registered  on 
title  as  in  Section  3  above  prior  to  certification.   Other 
registered  interests  in  land  intended  for  buffer  zones,  such  as 
easements,  may  be  sufficient  in  some  cases  in  place  of  ownership. 

5.0  Abandoned  Waste  Disposal   Sites 

When  potential  hazards  noted  under  Section  2  above  have  been 
identified  at  abandoned  waste  disposal  sites,  the  following 
measures  may  be  employed  to  notify  the  public  of  the  hazards: 

5.1  Director ' s  Actions 

The  Director  may 

(a)  issue  an  order  and  require  registration  on  title  as  in 
Section  3  above;  or 

(b)  encourage  the  municipality  to  take  appropriate  steps  with 
respect  to  official  plans,  restricted  area  (zoning)  by-laws, 
subdivision  controls  and  severance  controls;  or 

(c)  offer  advice  on  remedial  measures  to  property  owners. 

5.2  Municipalities'   Actions 

Municipalities  may  control  potential  hazards  by  invoking  the 
measures  under  Section  5.1(b)  and  (c)  above,  or  by  municipal 
ownership  of  the  property. 


