Montana's Water Policy -- 1997-98 




An EQC Communique to the 
Montana Legislature 



Environmental Quality Council 

State Capitol, Helena, MT 59620-1704 

406-444-3742 

Fall 1998 



Environmental Quality Council 

The Environmental Quality Council (EQC) is a state legislative committee created by the 1971 Montana 
Environmental Policy Act (MEPA). As outlined in MEPA, the EQC's purpose is to encourage conditions 
under which people can coexist with nature in "productive harmony". The Council fulfills this purpose by 
assisting the Legislature in the development of natural resource and environmental policy, by conducting 
studies on related issues, and by serving in an advisory capacity to the state's natural resource programs. 

The EQC is bipartisan, meets 4-6 times a year, and has 17 members— 6 state senators, 6 state 
representatives, 4 public members, and a representative of the governor. 



Environmental Quality Council Members 

House Members: Representative Haley Beaudry, Representative Vicki Cocchiarella, Representative 
Kim Gillan, Representative George Heavy Runner, Representative Karl Ohs, Representative Bill Tash 

Public Members: Mr. Bill Snoddy, Mr. Jerry Sorensen, Ms. Jeanne-Marie Souvigney, Mr. Greg 
ToUefson 

Senate Members: Senator Vivian Brooke, Senator William Crismore, Senator Lorents Grosfield, 
Senator Bea McCarthy, Senator Ken Mesaros, Senator Barry Stang 

Governor's Representative: Ms. Julie Lapeyre 



EQC Staff 

Todd Everts, Legislative Environmental Analyst; Larry Mitchell, Resource Policy Analyst; Mary 
Vandenbosch, Resource Policy Analyst; Kathleen Williams, Resource Policy Analyst; Maureen Theisen, 
Publications Coordinator; Liz Burke and A. B. Adams, Interns 



•V^A •w\ 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



•V^A •vs^ 



1. THE EQC'S WATER-RELATED STATUTORY DIRECTIVES 1 

THE EQC'S BROAD ROLE 1 

THE EQC'S PROGRAM-SPECIFIC ROLES 1 

WATER-RELATED COMPONENTS OF OTHER EQC ACTIVITIES 1 

2. WATER POLICY DELIBERATIONS OVER THE 1997-98 INTERIM 3 

SUMMARY OF EQC WATER POLICY CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 5 

3. THE EQC'S BROAD WATER POLICY MANDATE 7 

ADEQUACY OF THE STATE'S WATER POLICY 7 

IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS THAT AFFECT MONTANA'S WATER RESOURCES 12 

EQC OVERSIGHT OF AGENCY ACTIONS RELATED TO WATER RESOURCES 20 

COMMUNICATING WITH THE PUBLIC 25 

4. THE EQC'S PROGRAM-SPECIFIC MANDATES 27 

STATE WATER PLAN 27 

RENEWABLE RESOURCE GRANT AND LOAN PROGRAM 32 

WATER-RELATED RESEARCH 36 

WATER DATA MANAGEMENT 41 

5. WATER-RELATED COMPONENTS OF FULL-COUNCIL ACTIVITIES 44 

FWP INSTREAM FLOW LEASING REPORT 44 

HB 546 IMPLEMENTATION OVERSIGHT 44 

GROWTH ISSUES 44 



APPENDIX A-1 



List of Tables 



Table 1. Subcommittee and Council Water Policy Topics Heard in the 1997-98 Interim 4 

Table 2. Summary of EQC Water Policy Conclusions and Recommendations 5 

List of Figures 

Figure 1. Issues, Options, and Subcommittee Actions Related to a Case Study of Water Rights and 

Subdivision Issues in the Gallatin Valley 22 



xWA •W\ 



1. THE EQC'S WATER-RELATED STATUTORY DIRECTIVES 



yW\ .--WA 



Montana's statutes specify two levels of Environmental Quality Council (EQC) oversight of water policy: 1) a 
broad oversight/evaluative/communicative role, and 2) several program-specific roles. The Council also has some 
general environmental and natural resource statutory authorities and duties, many of which relate to water 
resources. 



THE EQC'S BROAD ROLE. . . 

The Council's broad water policy duties are listed below. The fulfillment of these duties over the 1997-98 
Legislative Interim is the subject of Chapter 3 of this report. 

85-2-105. Environmental Quality Council ~ Water Policy Duties. 

(2) On a continuing basis, tine environmental quality council shall: 

(a) advise the legislature on the adequacy of the state's water policy and on important state, regional, 
national, and international developments that affect Montana's water resources; 

(b) oversee the policies and activities of the department [of natural resources and conservation], other state 
executive agencies, and other state institutions as those policies and activities affect the water resources of 
the state; and 

(c) communicate with the public on matters of water policy as well as water resources of the state. 
[Emphasis added] 



THE EQC'S PROGRAM-SPECIFIC ROLES. . . 

The Council's four program-specific roles are listed below (subsections (a) through (d)). The fulfillment of these 
duties over the 1997-98 Legislative Interim is described in Chapter 4 of this report. 

85-2-105. Environmental Quality Council ~ Water Policy Duties. 

(3) On a regular basis, the environmental quality council shall: 

(a) analyze and comment on the state water plan required by 85-1 -203, when filed by the 
department [of natural resources and conservation]; 

(b) analyze and comment on the report of the status of the state's renewable resource grant and 
loan program required by 85-1 -621 , when filed by the department; 

(c) analyze and comment on water-related research undertaken by any state agency, institution, 
college, or university; 

(d) analyze, verify, and comment on the adequacy of and information contained in the water 
information system maintained by the natural resource information system under 90-15-305; and 

(e) report to the legislature as provided in 5-1 1 -21 0. [Emphasis added] 



WATER-RELATED COMPONENTS OF OTHER EQC ACTIVITIES. . . 

In addition to the Council's water-specific statutory roles described above, the Montana Environmental Policy Act 
(75-1-324, MCA) confers broad, general duties on the Council, summarized as follows: 

gather and analyze information related to environmental quality and environmental conditions and trends in 
Montana; 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 1 



evaluate state programs and activities regarding tlneir aclnievement of state natural resource and 

environmental goals and recommend improvements; 

review environmental programs to identify conflicts and suggest solutions. 

respond to legislative requests and make responses available to others; 

provide information to legislative committees, administrative agencies, and the public; 

assist legislators who are preparing environment-related legislation; and 

analyze natural resource legislative proposals and others that might impact natural resources; 



Water-related components of other Council activities that may be relevant to the Legislature are described in 
Chapter 5 of this report. 



Page 2 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



2. WATER POLICY DELIBERATIONS OVER THE 1997-98 INTERIM 



yW\ .--WA 



The members of the Environmental Quality Council (EQC) created a Water Policy Subcommittee at their 
September 1997 meeting and charged the Subcommittee with (among other actions) assisting the Council in 
meeting its water-related statutory mandates. The EQC asked the Subcommittee to prioritize HB 546 oversight and 
to address and research other water-related issues as they saw fit. (HB 546 further directed Montana's Department 
of Environmental Quality (DEQ) to monitor and assess water quality and develop water quality improvement 
strategies (referred to as Total Maximum Daily Loads or TMDLs) to address waters that are threatened or 
impaired.) The Subcommittee was to provide recommendations for Council consideration at the end of the Interim. 

Water Policy Subcommittee members included: 



Rep. Bill Tash (Subcommittee Co-Chair) 
Rep. George Heavy Runner 
Rep. Karl Ohs 



Sen. Bea McCarthy (Subcommittee Co-Chair) 
Sen. Vivian Brooke 
Mr. Bill Snoddy 



In its requests to the Subcommittee, the Council added that the four program-specific updates (as well as an update 
on water leasing) should occur in front of the full Council and that the Subcommittee's approach to HB 546 (the 
Total Maximum Daily Load, or TMDL, bill) implementation oversight should seek to involve the full Council 
where appropriate. 

The EQC's Water Policy Subcommittee approved its work plan in January 1998, which included the following 
goals for the Interim: 

Plan for, and pursue, a productive Interim, but retain flexibility to address issues as they arise. 

• Ensure the Council has the information and products necessary to achieve its water-related 
statutory goals in a timely manner over the Interim. 

• Enable Subcommittee members to better explain water quality regulation in general, and TMDL 
implementation specifically. 

Propose legislation to the Council, where appropriate, to address water-related policy issues. 



The Subcommittee employed a collaborative approach in its deliberations and to arrive at its recommendations to 
the Council. 

The Subcommittee and the EQC met approximately every other month during the 1997-98 Interim. The major 
water-related topics heard by either the Subcommittee or the Council are listed in Table 1 (see next page). 

The following chapters describe the information, issues, and recommendations the Subcommittee and Council 
agreed should be forwarded to the 56th Legislature. Recommendations are summarized in Table 2 and highlighted 
in relevant text sections. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 3 



Table 1. Subcommittee and Council Water Policy Topics Heard in the 1997-98 Interim 



Month 

September 1997 
(Helena) 



November 1997 
(Missoula) 



January 1998 
(Helena) 



Water Policy-Related Topics Heard by. . . 
Water Policy Subcommittee EQC 



March 1998 
(Helena) 



May 1998 
(Great Falls) 



June 1998 
(Dillon) 



July 27, 1998 
August 1998 

September 1998 
October 1998 
December 1998 



Subcommittee Organizational Meeting 



Water OualityrTMDL Training 

Examples of TMDL Efforts at Varied Scales 

Septic/TMDL Issues 

Wetlands Portion of State Water Plan* (cont.) 

Dam-Related Issues 

Return Flow Studies 

Fish Eradication Policy 

HB 546 Implementation Update 

303(d) (Impairedrrhreatened waters) Listing/Delisting 

Septic Regulation/Impairments 

State Water Plan* General Update 
FWP Instream Flow Leasing Report 
1998 303(d) List 

HB 546 and Interagency Coordination 
Statewide TMDL Advisory Group Update 
More HB 546 Policy Issues 

Subcommittee Feedback on Proposed DOT Bill 
More HB 546 Policy Issues 
What will Oualify as Sufficient Credible Data? 
DEO Presents HB546-Required "Schedule" 
Hilger Area Mine/Water Issues (unscheduled) 

Subcommittee as State Water Plan Advisory 
Group on proposed Ground Water Chapter 
Gallatin Valley Water Right/Subdivision Issues 



MEPA Training/Project Update 
Water Inf. System Update* 
State Water Plan* (proposed 
Wetland Chapter) Update 

3 Instream Flow Programs 
EOC tour of liner-board facility 



BMP Mini-Seminar (part 1 ) 
DEO response to recent issues 



Subc./Council Co-Chair Field Trip to Hilger 
Area to Discuss Mine/Water Issues 

Further State Water Plan Advice to DNRC 
Draft Recommendations for: Water Policy, 
HB 546 Oversight, and FWP Leasing Reports 

Decisionmaking on Reports 

Respond to Comments on Report 

(no meeting) 



BMP Mini-Seminar (part 2) 



Water Research* Update 
Blackfoot River Landslide 
Bull Trout Management 
Superfund/Fuel Tank Issues 



HB 546 Demonstration Tour: 
(Upper Beaverhead Valley) 

Dialogue w/Watershed Groups/ 
Conservation Dist. reps. 

Ren. Res. Grant/Loan* Update 

FWP Fisheries 2000 Update 



(no Council meeting in August) 

Subcommittee Report Update 
Adopt Subcommittee Reports 
Council Critique of Interim 



* Denotes a topic upon which the Council is statutorily required to analyze and comment (see Chapter 4). 



Page 4 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



The Council came to the following conclusions and recommendations based on its water policy deliberations over 
the 1997-1998 Interim. These statements are also interspersed throughout the report, by topic. 

Table 2. Summary of EQC Water Policy Conclusions and Recommendations 



Conservations districts and watershed groups associated with them need to be recognized for their 
efforts to resolve natural resource issues at the local level, and in dealing with the policies that are 
passed to them by the Legislature. And they are able to do so with very little financial resources to work 
with. 

Holding legislative committee meetings out of Helena is a very productive way to view water-related 
issues and program implementation in Montana, and to discuss local impacts and responses to state 
policy with a wider variety of Montana's citizens. It also provides broader general access to the 
Legislature by providing an opportunity to hear from citizens and agency representatives that would not 
normally travel to Helena to attend a legislative meeting. In addition to holding meetings outside of 
Helena, committee tours of natural resource uses and conditions in varied areas of Montana were 
beneficial, to see how legislation was working on the ground. 

Agency attempts to coordinate better within their own divisions and with other agencies are positive and 
important steps, but there is continued room for improvement. 

The Subcommittee recommended that DNRC water rights staff work with EQC staff to identify 
mechanisms and means to make the MEPA process associated with water permits more useful and 
credible. 

The Subcommittee endorsed the cooperative efforts in the Gallatin area to develop a combined water- 
related project application list, and the MACD effort to provide Board of Realtors-accredited courses 
related to water and rural issues. 

The Subcommittee recommended water rights information be incorporated into the next version of 
DNRC's Guide to Stream Permitting. 

The Subcommittee endorsed DNRC's efforts to enhance public access to the computerized water rights 
system. 

The Subcommittee recommended that the next Environmental Quality Council develop a policy for the 
1 999-00 Interim regarding when and how to respond to requests for site-specific Council oversight of 
natural resource issues, especially those that would involve Council member travel to a specific site. 
Consideration should be given to: 

Whether the requestor has participated in available processes to address concerns 

Whether there appear to be "real" policy issues that may be applicable to other Montanans and 

solvable; 

Whether all parties subject to an issue or concern are willing to and available to participate in a 

discussion 

Whether legislative involvement could affect or be affected by pending litigation in the matter; 

and 

Whether EQC and/or agency staff are available to assist in distilling facts and issues. 

The next Council should also ensure a standard approach for how such issues are raised to the Council. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 5 



Table 2. Summary of EQC Water Policy Conclusions and Recommendations (cont.) 



Future Councils (or a designated Subcommittee) should strongly consider continuing to serve as the 
State Water Plan Advisory Council. Subcommittees could serve as the focal point for review and 
comment in the development of the Plan sections, with full EQC involvement for final discussion and 
approval of each plan section. 

As suggested at the Great Falls Watershed Conference in December, funds are needed to cover 
administrative costs of local watershed groups. Funds are available for projects, but not general 
operations. The Subcommittee supports local watershed groups and conservation districts having the 
resources necessary to continue this important work. (See also related policy consideration in HB546 
Oversight Report.) 

The Subcommittee encourages appropriate entities work with the agricultural industry to enhance 
development of realistic and practical BMPs for voluntary application within the industry. (See also 
related policy consideration in HB546 Oversight Report.) 

The Subcommittee recommends the next EQC, in collaboration with the Department of Environmental 
Quality's Remediation Division, and the Department of Revenue, should make a priority of undertaking a 
study to determine the need for and utility of tax and other types of financial incentives to encourage 
voluntary clean-up and redevelopment of contaminated sites within Montana. The incentive should be 
structured in a way to be sure that only persons with no prior connection to the property and who did not 
contribute to the contamination receive the incentive. The Subcommittee also recommends this concept 
be introduced to the 1999 Legislature as a Council-sponsored Study Resolution. 

Consistent with the EQC's statutory requirements, the Subcommittee recommends ongoing evaluation 
of whether water research funding and study topics adequately represent Montana's needs for 
information related to its water resources. This should involve continued EQC staff and Council member 
coordination and communication with the Montana State University system Water Center, and continued 
participation the Ground Water Assessment Steering Committee, and continued participation in 
professional water association annual gatherings, to assist in this evaluation. Where appropriate, 
reasonable monitoring in key watersheds could be encouraged. 

The Subcommittee endorses the current efforts by staff of the Montana Water Information System 
program to replace the Palmer Drought Severity Index maps and to develop a mobile computer lab to 
support local training on the use of computer tools to access and use water-related information (e.g. 
GIS, databases, and the Internet). 

Note: Additional water-related findings and recommendations are within two other EQC 1998 Reports; 1) Montana 
Department of Fish, Wildlife & Parks' Water Leasing Study, and 2) Montana's Revised Water Quality Monitoring, 
Assessment, and Improvement Program -- HB 546 and TMDLs in Practice. Both reports may be requested from the EQC 
office. Recommendations in those reports are specific to those two topics, and are not repeated here. 



Page 6 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



•V^A •w\ 



3. THE EQC'S BROAD WATER POLICY MANDATE 



•V^A •vs^ 



Section 85-2-105, MCA requires the Environmental Quality Council (EQC) to: 

(a) advise the legislature on the adequacy of the state's water policy and on important . . . developments 
that affect Montana's water resources; 

(b) oversee the policies and activities of the department [of natural resources and conservation], other state 
executive agencies, and other state institutions, as those policies and activities affect the water resources of 
the state; and 

(c) communicate with the public on matters of water policy as well as water resources of the state. 
[Emphasis added] 



ADEQUACY OF THE STATE'S WATER POLICY 

The EQC felt that one way to communicate their conclusions related to the adequacy of Montana' s water 
policy was to describe some aspects they felt were positive components of state policy, and others where, 
based upon their personal knowledge and information gathered over the Interim, there may be some cause 
for concern. 



Things that are Working Well 

• The Council applauds conservations districts and associated watershed groups for their efforts 
to resolve natural resource issues at the local level and in working with the policies passed to them 
by the Legislature, especially considering the limited financial resources they have to do so. 

• The Council concluded that holding legislative committee meetings out of Helena is a very 
productive way to view water-related issues and program implementation in Montana and to 
discuss local impacts and responses to state policy with a wider variety of Montana's citizens. It 
also provides broader general access to the Legislature by providing an opportunity to hear from 
citizens and agency representatives that would not normally travel to Helena to attend a legislative 
meeting. 

• In addition to holding meetings outside of Helena, committee tours of natural resource uses and 
conditions in varied areas of Montana were beneficial to see how legislation was working on the 
ground. 



Topics of Concern 

• Agency attempts to coordinate better within their own divisions and with other agencies are 

positive and important steps, but there is continued room for improvement. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 7 



Recent Court Challenges/Actions Related to Montana's Water Policy 

Legislation sets natural resource policy, but the judicial branch of government is one entity involved in 
the determination of its adequacy. The following is a summary of relevant court cases where either state 
or federal judicial scrutiny has been focussed on water policy and/or its implementation in Montana. 

The descriptions below were current as of early fall 1998. Please contact EQC staff to discuss the current 
status of these topics. 



U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) challenged for not reviewing changes to 
Montana's water quality standards (American Wildlands v. Carol Browner) 

Three environmental groups filed a lawsuit against the EPA on June 27, 1998, regarding review of 
Montana's water quality standards. The plaintiffs alleged that the EPA violated the Clean Water 
Act (CWA) when it failed to review and approve (within 60 days) or disapprove (within 90 days) 
1993, 1994, 1995, and 1997 revisions to Montana's water quality statutes and standards. The 
complaint references a recent court decision from Alaska that stated that, under the CWA, the 
EPA must review and approve or disapprove each new and revised state water quality standard 
before it takes effect . The EPA and the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) 
disagree with the court's interpretation. As of December 1998, DEQ staff report there has been no 
appeal of the Alaska case. 

The lawsuit requested a court order: 1) finding the EPA in violation of the CWA, 2) requiring the 
EPA to review and approve or disapprove revisions to Montana's water quality standards, 3) 
declaring Montana' s standards ineffective or unenforceable until approved by the EPA, and 4) 
requiring the EPA to promulgate water quality standards for any disapproved portions of 
Montana's existing standards that are not corrected by the state within 90 days of the EPA's 
disapproval notice to the state. 

Plaintiffs also requested the court to issue temporary restraining orders and preliminary and 
permanent injunctions as may be appropriate and necessary until final water quality standards that 
meet the requirements of the CWA are adopted by or for the State of Montana. 

Implications: The Court may render the current Montana water quality standards not effective 
until affirmative approval by the EPA. Statutory changes made between 1993 and 1997 may not 
currently be valid. If the EPA disapproves any of the new/revised Montana water quality 
standards, those revisions might be declared invalid on the date of the EPA's disapproval. There 
has been no indication as to what injunctions or restraining orders would be necessary if the 
plaintiffs were to prevail. Significant concern has been expressed by the regulated community 
regarding the broad scale of potential economic and social impacts of the plaintiffs prevailing in 
this case. 



Page 8 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



TMDL lawsuit challenges Montana's §303(d) list and TMDL progress ( Friends of the Wild 
Swan. Inc. v. Browner (1997)) 

Plaintiffs alleged that the EPA violated the Clean Water Act (CWA) by: 1) failing to promulgate 
a list of "threatened" and "impaired" waters for the State of Montana when Montana did not meet 
the appropriate deadlines to file such a list, and 2) by failing to promulgate Total Maximum Daily 
Loads (TMDLs) for each body or segment of water on the §303(d) hst, as required by the CWA 
when a state has not made progress toward developing TMDLs. Plaintiffs also alleged that the 
EPA violated the Montana Administrative Procedures Act (MAPA) by approving "deficient" 
§303(d) lists submitted to the EPA by the State of Montana— the lists were deficient because they 
represented an assessment of only a fraction of Montana streams and failed to identify all 
threatened and impaired waters. 

Plaintiffs requested that the court issue a declaratory judgment that the EPA is in violation of the 
CWA with respect to §303(d) lists and TMDLs for the State of Montana. Plaintiffs also requested 
the court to mandate the EPA to identify and prioritize a §303(d) list of all threatened and 
impaired waters in Montana and to establish TMDLs for those waters on the list within three years 
from the date of judgment. 

Implications: Montana could lose primacy over promulgation of its §303(d) list and TMDL 
development, or less drastic, Montana could be required to meet specific, court-ordered deadlines 
for §303(d) list promulgation and TMDL development with close scrutiny and monitoring from 
the EPA. (Note: This case is further discussed in the Council's HB 546 Oversight Report to the 
Legislature, available from the EQC office.) 



Challenge to the permitting provisions of the Montana Water Use Act, as amended by Senate 
Bill (SB) 97 ( Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes v. Bud Clinch ) 

The Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes (Tribes) have sued the Montana Department of 
Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) and the State of Montana, challenging 1997 
amendments to permitting provisions of the Water Use Act. Specifically, the Tribes assert that the 
DNRC has no authority to grant water use permits on the Flathead Indian Reservation until the 
Tribes water rights have been quantified. 

In January 1998 the Montana Supreme Court accepted original jurisdiction (i.e. allowed a case to 
bypass the appeals court) of the case and classified the case for oral argument. Oral argument is 
scheduled for January 6, 1999. 

Implications : Possible invalidation of the 1997 amendments at issue in this case and reiteration of 
the Montana Supreme Court's 1996 decision in Ciotti that the DNRC has no authority to issue 
water use permits on the reservation until the Tribes' reserved water rights have been quantified. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 9 



Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes have treatment-as-state status under the federal 
Clean Water Act ( Montana v. EPA . 137 F.3d 1135 (1998)) 

In response to a state challenge, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the treatment-as-state 
status granted to the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes (Tribes) by the EPA under the 
Clean Water Act. With treatment-as-state status, the Tribes have the right to set water quality 
standards for surface waters on Indian and non-Indian land within their reservation. The 9th 
Circuit decision upholds a 1996 ruling by U.S. District Court Judge Charles Lovell in Helena. 

When the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes set water quality standards on the reservation, 
the Tribes adopted the same standards as those in existence for the State of Montana. The Tribes' 
standards have remained the same, while the state's standards were revised somewhat in 1995 and 
1997. The EPA, not the Tribes, asserts enforcement authority over NPDES permitting and Clean 
Water Act compliance on the reservation. 

The state appealed the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court, which rejected the appeal without 
comment. 

Implications : The Tribes may continue to set water quality standards on the reservation, which 
includes areas owned by non-Indians. 



Mandated reconsideration of potential bull trout listing 

In 1994, an Oregon U.S. District Court ordered the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) to 
reconsider the agency's decision that bull trout were "warranted" for listing under the federal 
Endangered Species Act (ESA), but "precluded" due to other agency priorities. In response, on 
June 10, 1997, the FWS proposed listing the Columbia River population segment of bull trout as 
threatened under the ESA, initiating a one-year maximum time period within which to make the 
listing decision. On June 5, 1998, the Columbia population segment was listed as threatened and 
the St. Mary's (the area on the east side of Glacier National Park) population segment was 
proposed as threatened. According to the FWS, listing decisions are based solely on biological 
information. 

Implications: The FWS must now prepare a formal Recovery Plan for the listed bull trout 
population segment (Columbia River). Agencies and others will have to consult with the FWS to 
discuss proposed projects which may have an effect on bull trout before project implementation. 
(See also discussion under "Endangered Species", p. 12 of this report.) 



Westslope cutthroat trout lawsuit 

Several environmental groups petitioned the U.S. Fish & Wildhfe Service (FWS) in May 1997 to 
hst the westslope cutthroat trout as a threatened species under the federal Endangered Species Act. 
On March 3, 1998, the groups filed a lawsuit against the federal government citing the failure by 
the FWS to review the petition within the required deadline of 90 days after submission and 
plaintiffs requested a court order requiring the FWS to respond. A decision on whether westslope 
cutthroat should be listed is supposed to be made by January 1999. 



Page 10 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



Implications: This case is similar to the cases brought against the federal government which 
eventually secured listing of the bull trout as a threatened species. As a result of this and possible 
future litigation, westslope cutthroat trout may be listed as a threatened species throughout its 
historic range in Montana. 



Water Court fees for adjudicating late claims 

The Montana Water Court issued an order requiring water masters and water judges to keep track 
of all time spent adjudicating late water right claims (claims not filed by the statewide 
adjudication deadline of April 30, 1982). Late claimants will be assessed $25 per hour for 
adjudication of their claims. In addition, claimants will be responsible for general associated 
expenses, such as travel expenses, and telephone, postage, and copying charges that exceed $10. 
The Water Court will not issue a final ruling on the claim until the late claim costs are paid, and 
the claim will be terminated if the costs are not paid within a reasonable amount of time. 

Implications: Persons filing late claims that require significant processing time and expense may 
have high costs to pay before obtaining clear title to their water right, or may lose it if they cannot 
afford the processing expense. 



Burden of proof on objector in water rights adjudication ( Burkhartsmeyer Land Company , 

Case No. 40G-2) 

The Water Court held that a properly filed water right claim establishes a prima facie (presumed 
true unless refuted) case for the claimant which meets the minimum threshold of evidence 
necessary to shift the burden of production to an objector. An objector must produce enough 
evidence to overcome the claimant's prima facie case by a "preponderance of the evidence" 
(meaning more probable than not). The claimant is then given an opportunity to introduce 
additional evidence in support of the claim. 

Implications: When no objector presents contrary evidence, a claimant's properly filed claim will 
generally satisfy a claimant's burden of proving the water right. The Water Court cautioned, 
however, that it is not a rubber stamp and the Court is not compelled to accept a claim if no 
objection is filed. 



IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS THAT AFFECT MONTANA'S WATER 
RESOURCES 

Given the Council's statutory requirement to "advise the legislature on . . . important state, regional, 
national, and international developments that affect Montana's water resources," the Water Policy 
Subcommittee decided early in the Interim that each of their meetings should contain an agenda item 
related to important developments. During these agenda items, EQC staff. Subcommittee members, and 
meeting attendees shared information on recent issues, actions, or events that relate to Montana's water 
resources. Over the summer months (1998), EQC staff collated all topics that had been discussed, then 
polled Subcommittee members and Council Co-Chairs regarding which topics they felt were important 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 1 1 



enough that the Legislature should be advised of them. The Council member feedback formed the basis 
for the outline and topics provided below. 

The descriptions below were current as of early fall 1998. Please contact EQC staff to discuss the current 
status of these topics. 



HB 546 -- TMDL Bill Implementation 

HB 546, one of the major pieces of natural resource legislation in the 1997 Session, further directed the 
Montana DEQ to monitor and assess state waters and develop water quality improvement plans (i.e. 
TMDLs) for those waters deemed threatened or impaired. The Legislature provided over $1.4 million in 
funding and authorized nine new FTEs to implement revisions to the program. The state already had a list 
of about 800 waters that were considered to have water quality problems, though there had been criticism 
on how that list had been constructed. A lawsuit was filed against the EPA concerning Montana's alleged 
lack of progress in water quality assessment and TMDL development (see separate discussion of lawsuit, 
p. 9). 

As a result of the legislation and the need to show progress to ensure continued state primacy over water- 
related programs, the DEQ is working to move a major program revision forward. (This topic is covered 
in detail in the Council's HB 546 Oversight Report, available from the EQC office.) 



Endangered Species 

On June 10, 1998, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) announced the listing of bull trout as 
threatened in the Columbia Basin. According to Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks 
(FWP) staff, the impacts to Montana are potentially huge, but are somewhat unknown. The real impact 
will depend upon how the FWS enforces the listing, with enforcement generally driven by complaints and 
lawsuits. 

Significantly, the FWS listed the entire Columbia basin (including much of Montana west of the Divide) 
as one "distinct population segment." This means that to fully recover the bull trout, recovery must occur 
throughout the basin, even though chances might be higher for recovery, say, in portions of Montana 
compared to portions of Oregon. FWP staff note, however, that the FWS has stated that even though the 
species would have to be recovered throughout the listing area to be de-listed, the FWS could propose 
rules that would reduce the requirements for "incidental take" permits, thereby allowing for reduced 
regulation in areas showing progress. 

In general, a listing invokes a requirement for federal agencies to obtain consultation approval (under 
Section 10 of the ESA) for federally-initiated actions, state fish and wildlife agencies to obtain "Section 
6" approval, and other entities proposing actions that could invoke "harm" to obtain an incidental take 
permit, which normally requires the preparation of a habitat conservation plan. Plum Creek is currently 
working on a Habitat Conservation Plan, that, if approved, would allow for blanket incidental take 
permits for the activities covered in the Plan. 

One of the most important components of the listing is the determination of activities that would or would 
not constitute a violation of the Act. According to the Rule, 



Page 12 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



the Service believes the following actions would not be likely to result in a violation . . . provided the 
activities are carried out in accordance with any existing regulations and permit requirements -- 

(1 ) Actions that may affect bull trout in the Klamath and Columbia River basins and are authorized, funded 
or carried out by a Federal agency when the action is conducted in accordance with an incidental take 
statement issued by the Service pursuant to section 7 of the Act; 

(2) Possession of Columbia River basin bull trout caught legally in accordance with authorized State fishing 
regulations . . .; 

(3) State, local and other activities that have been approved by the Service through development of 
Conservation Plans and special rules . . . 

With respect to both the Klamath River and Columbia River bull trout population segments, the following 
actions likely would be considered a violation . . . 

(1 ) Take of bull trout without a permit, which includes harassing, harming, pursuing, hunting, shooting, 
wounding, killing, trapping, capturing, or collecting, or attempting any of these actions, except in accordance 
with applicable State fish and wildlife conservation laws and regulations within the Columbia River bull trout 
population segment; 

(2) To possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, or ship illegally taken bull trout; 

(3) Unauthorized interstate and foreign commerce . . . and import/export of bull trout . . .; 

(4) Introduction of non-native fish species that compete or hybridize with, or prey on bull trout; 

(5) Destruction or alteration of bull trout habitat by dredging, channelization, diversion, in-stream vehicle 
operation or rock removal, or other activities that result in the destruction or significant degradation of cover, 
channel stability, substrate composition, temperature, and migratory corridors used by the species for 
foraging, cover, migration, and spawning; 

(6) Discharges or dumping of toxic chemicals, silt, or other pollutants into waters supporting bull trout that 
result in death or injury of the species; and 

(7) Destruction or alteration of riparian or lakeshore habitat and adjoining uplands of waters supporting bull 
trout by timber harvest, grazing, mining, hydropower development, or other developmental activities that 
result in destruction or significant degradation of cover, channel stability, substrate composition, 
temperature, and migratory corridors used by the species for foraging, cover, migration, and spawning. 

Other activities not identified above will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if a violation . . . 
may be likely to result. (Federal Register, p. 31673) 

The wording in the rule is broad. Interpretive guidance has not been prepared, so the extent of its sweep is 
unclear. According to FWP staff, the FWS has only one person assigned to bull trout consultation and 
recovery in Montana. As a result, the FWS is focussing current efforts on Forest Service lands, where the 
agency feels they can get the biggest conservation "bang for the buck" in Montana. With any listing, the 
FWS encourages development of pooled conservation plans, rather than a plan for each incidental take 
permit needed. Questions loom as to: potential impacts to 310 projects, water diversions, the extent of 
"adjoining" associated with "uplands" in subsection (7) of the rule, the definition of discharge of "silt" in 
subsection (6), etc. There may be answers to many of these interpretive questions by investigating 
implications associated with other species listings, but Montana has many questions at this point. 

There are actions Montana is taking, however. The Governor's Bull Trout Restoration Team has drafted a 
Bull Trout Restoration Plan which will receive public review in late fall 1998. The Restoration Team will 
reconvene to address the comments and compile a final draft. Once the plan is finished, the Team will 
probably be disbanded. The draft plan calls for establishment of a Steering Committee to oversee and 
coordinate implementation of the plan. According to FWP staff, that committee would likely serve as a 
state bull trout recovery team. 

FWP staff also note that since the bull trout is now federally listed, the official recovery criteria will be 
determined by the FWS through their federal recovery planning process. The FWP hopes the FWS will 
recognize and use Montana's Restoration Plan as the basis for the Montana portion of a federal recovery 
plan. That would provide assurances to the state about what would be required to delist the fish, and 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 13 



would ensure that the FWS's standards are not more stringent than the state's standards. The FWS is 
supposed to have a draft recovery plan completed within 18 months of listing, and a final within 30 
months of listing, but often these deadlines are not met. FWP will be proceeding as if the Montana plan 
will become the basis for the federal recovery plan. 

The FWP is also moving forward under a special section of the ESA (for state fish and wildlife agencies 
only) to get their fisheries-related projects approved under the Act. They are also moving forward on their 
westslope cutthroat trout recovery plan, with the hope that early movement will avoid a "warranted for 
listing" finding from the FWS next year. The range for this species is, basically, the west slope of the 
Rocky Mountains, plus the upper Missouri drainage. FWP staff note that, if this species is listed, the list 
of items considered "take" will probably be similar to that for bull trout. The FWP has drafted a 
conservation agreement and management plan for westslope cutthroat trout, but reviewers commented the 
draft falls short regarding formal commitments to implement and fund the items in the plan. As a result, 
the FWP is trying to formulate a strategy to formalize commitments for funds and resources needed to 
implement the plan. 

In the summer of 1998, the FWP was also considering moving forward on a Yellowstone cutthroat trout 

plan (from the Yellowstone River headwaters to just above Billings) which may have had even more 
likelihood of approval since there had been no court action on this species yet. As of August 14th, 
however, the Yellowstone cutthroat trout was petitioned for listing under the ESA. The FWS, therefore, 
has 90 days from August 14th to review the petition and decide whether a status review is warranted. 
FWP staff feel a status review will likely be initiated, with a decision a year from listing of whether listing 
of this species is warranted. 

In general, the FWS appears to be trying to support state-initiated conservation efforts, as long as court 
decisions "do not force their hand" in these matters. Interestingly, the grayling in Montana was headed 
for the ESA list, but the state has made efforts toward its conservation, has seen some success, and the 
petitioners have not, as yet, further pursued the issue in court. FWP staff agree that the proposed 
amendments to the ESA (i.e. Congressional SI 180 in 1998) would assist them in obtaining additional 
state authority in managing listed species. 

On another note, when the FWS listed the Klamath and Columbia stocks, the St. Mary's (and two other 
non-Montana bull trout stocks) were proposed for listing. A final rule on these should be provided in a 
year (by June 1999), though the St. Mary's would likely have less widespread implications to Montana 
than the Columbia listing. 

Federal ESA listing decisions and implementation policies were one of the major multi-state legislative 
interests discussed at the July meeting of the Legislative Council on River Governance in Boise. The 
Council decided to collaboratively draft a letter to the U.S. Senate Majority Leader (Sen. Lott), 
encouraging Senate floor debate on SI 180, the proposed amendments to the federal Endangered 
Species Act. (See also the "Multi-State Activities" section for further discussion of this group.) 



Potential Electrical Utility Deregulation Impacts on Water Rights 

• On December 7, 1997, the Montana Power Company (MPC) announced it would sell its 17 

hydroelectric dams and coal-fired power plants, get out of the generation business, and instead 
focus on marketing, transmission, and distribution of electricity. This was in response to 



Page 14 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



Montana's 1997 legislation related to electric industry deregulation. Soon after this 
announcement, water right holders upstream of one of MFC's generating facilities raised concern 
regarding water rights, as MFC would be selling senior water rights along with the dams. 
Irrigators who had junior water rights upstream of the dams in question were concerned that the 
new owners would put out a call, requesting the irrigators to leave more water in the river, 
allowing more water through the dam. 

In response to these concerns. Governor Racicot met with the DEQ and DNRC in February 1998 
to determine how to communicate these concerns to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(FERC). The group decided to request FERC to evaluate in its EIS process on the proposed 
relicensing of MFC's Missouri River projects the impacts of such a call. This EIS is expected to 
be completed by late summer of 1999. 

The Legislature's Transition Advisory Committee on Electric Industry Restructuring also 
reviewed this issue. 



Relevant Multi- State Activities Related to Water 

• The Western Governors Association passed a resolution in June 1997 related to TMDLs and 

states' ability to accomplish these mandates of the federal Clean Water Act (CWA). The 
resolution stated that the Association supports the goals of the CWA. The Governors note, 
however, that the states do not have the resources available to accelerate TMDL program 
implementation deadlines required by the settlement of lawsuits filed against the EFA. They urged 
the EFA to work cooperatively with the states to develop and implement these TMDL programs. 
The Governors suggested the Fresident's fiscal year (FY) 1999 budget allot for: 1) realistic and 
stable long-term funding of TMDL projects that cover the entire spectrum of activities necessary 
to achieve the CWA's goals, 2) a holistic approach that provides funding for the many interrelated 
components of successful TMDL programs, and 3) recognition of the importance of coordination 
among TMDL programs and other federal agencies' programs and funding sources, such as 
Endangered Species Act requirements, the Farm Bill programs, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and 
federal land management planning requirements. 

• On May 29, 1998, Senator Lorents Grosfield, Representative Bill Tash, two EQC staff members 
and DEQ Director Mark Simonich attended a meeting in Denver sponsored by the National 

Council of State Legislatures (NCSL). The purpose of the meeting was to hold a dialogue on 
important federal policies between key members of state legislatures in the EFA's Region 8 
consisting of North and South Dakota, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado and key EFA 
program officials charged with implementing congressional policies. EFA Administrator Bill 
Yellowtail, a former Montana legislator, initiated the dialogue in an effort to include the concerns 
of state legislatures in the traditional federal to state executive branch discussions on important 
federal initiatives. Fresentations were held on issues including new federal air standards for the 
regional haze rule, the federal Clean Water Action Flan, upcoming federal compliance deadlines 
for underground storage tanks, state environmental self audit legislation, and federal funding of 
state grants for federally delegated environmental programs. 

One key issue that was identified from the meeting is the need for the EFA to provide accurate and 
timely responses to legislators during the consideration of legislative initiatives that may run 



EQC 1998 Water Folicy Report Fage 15 



contrary to federal law or environmental policy and thereby jeopardize state program delegation or 
primacy. Also, legislators want an increased involvement in the budgeting process when state 
agencies and the EPA negotiate performance partnership agreements and grant funding for 
federally delegated programs. 

EPA Regional Assistant Administrator, Max Dodson discussed President Clinton's new Clean 
Water Action Plan proposal which would budget $538 million in new resources for FY 1999, an 
increase of 35%. Included in the package is an increase from $105 million to $200 million for 
Section 319 nonpoint source program grants. Also, the EPA is attempting to focus attention on 
water quality improvement through an increased effort in funding local watershed planning and 
the development and implementation of water quality improvement strategies (i.e. total maximum 
daily loads, or TMDLs) for impaired and threatened waters. A new initiative to develop a federal 
regulatory program that would better control runoff pollution from large agricultural confined 
animal feeding operations (CAFOs) is part of the proposed package. 

Administrator Yellowtail and the regional legislators generally concluded that continuing a 
dialogue on these and other issues could be beneficial in providing legislators and the EPA with a 
better understanding of the respective concerns of each state in the implementation and funding of 
federally delegated environmental programs. 

In 1998, legislative leaders created a new multi-state entity, the Legislative Leadership Council 
on River Governance. Spurred by concerns over excessive executive branch and federal agency 
treading into the policy components of state natural resource decisions, the legislative leadership 
of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and Montana decided to create an ongoing forum for state 
legislators to discuss critical regional issues in a bi-partisan manner. Topics identified to be of 
common interest at the first meeting included: endangered species recovery policy, water quality 
issues, water use, electrical deregulation, and transportation. The second meeting focussed 
primarily on endangered species policy. The adopted purpose of the Council is to 

. . . assert state legislative duty and authority over natural resources and river 
governance, and to unite states for a proactive agenda of legislative action and 
communications 

The membership is determined by the legislative leadership of each state; bi-partisan participation 
is encouraged. The group is facilitated by staff of the Council of State Governments, with state 
staff providing support to their respective state delegations. The Council has held two meetings so 
far; the next is planned for Spokane in the winter of 1998-99. Three 1997-98 EQC members (Rep. 
Cocchiarella, Rep. Tash, and Sen. McCarthy) were included in the six-member Montana 
delegation to the Council. 



Relevant Federal Activities Related to Water 

• On October 18, 1997, Vice President Gore announced a set of Clean Water Initiatives to 

celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Clean Water Act. The initiatives directed federal agencies to 
develop a comprehensive Action Plan within 120 days to improve water pollution control efforts 
across the country. President Clinton also addressed the new initiatives in his 1998 State of the 
Union address. His budget proposal for FY 1999 included $145 million of new funding for a new 
Clean Water Action Plan to prevent polluted runoff, as well as protect and restore critical 



Page 16 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



watersheds. Updates of action items and proposed budget items for the Clean Water Action Plan 
can be accessed at a new EPA web page: (http://www.epa.gov/cleanwater). 

Also associated with the Clean Water Action Plan, the federal Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) released for public comment a draft strategy for additional controls on animal feedlot 

runoff. The draft called for new water pollution control requirements, immediate inspections and 
increased enforcement for larger animal feeding operations. The EPA intends to foster a dialogue 
between the regulated community and other members of the public on how to better protect public 
health and the environment as well as encourage voluntary actions. News articles following the 
issue of this draft indicated concern among livestock owners about the implications of these new 
regulations. An EPA and U.S. Department of Agriculture joint draft was expected in July, with 
final regulations slated for November 1998. Updated information on this plan can be accessed 
through the EPA web page: (http://www.epa.gov/owmitnet/afo.htm). 

In October 1997 the Western Water Policy Review Advisory Commission (Commission) 
presented a draft report for public review, culminating two years of research, field investigation, 
public discussion, and Commission deliberation. The Commission was appointed by President 
Clinton under the Western Water Policy Review Act of 1992. The directive of the Commission 
was to undertake a comprehensive review of federal activities in the nineteen western states which 
directly or indirectly affect the allocation and use of water resources and to submit a report of 
findings to the congressional committees having jurisdiction over federal water programs. 

Through a process facilitated by the Montana DNRC, the EQC Water Policy Subcommittee 
submitted comments on the Commission draft at a November 1997 meeting. The comments 
submitted indicated that the reviewers did not dispute the stated objectives in the report, but had 
specific suggestions related to certain aspects of the draft. An amended Commission report was 
sent to the President in early March 1998 and the final report was presented in late June. The 
document outlined recommendations for suitable water management, new approaches to river 
basins and watershed governance, and other changes in federal water resource policy. Included in 
these recommendations is an emphasis on restoring degraded watersheds, encouraging water 
transfers from farms to cities to accommodate population growth, and charging full-market value 
for water from new irrigation projects. Information on the Commission's products can be found on 
the Internet at (http://www.den.doi.gov/wwprac). 



Dam- Related Issues 

• Staff of the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) provided an 
update on the management and conditions of Montana's dams at the January 1998 Water Policy 
Subcommittee meeting. A leak in the East Fork Dam in 1996 brought dam stability issues to the 
1997 Legislature's attention. The state owns 39 water projects, 22 of which are storage projects, as 
well as 300 miles of canals. The DNRC hopes to continue systematically turning inactive projects 
over to private ownership, having already completed transfer of canal projects that are not 
supported by a storage structure. Water projects generally have a projected life of between 50-75 
years, and many of those owned by the state are reaching the end of this span. 

• A leak was discovered in the Tin Cup Dam, southwest of Darby in the Selway-Bitteroot 
Wilderness Area, on May 9, 1998. This dam, constructed in 1906, is owned by the Tin Cup Water 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 17 



and Sewer District. The earth fill dam' s seepage around its outlet pipe again brought the topic of 
Montana's dam sufficiency to the forefront. Because of concern for public safety as well as a need 
for funds and resources which exceeded the capabilities of the District, the U.S. Forest Service 
assisted District- hired contractors in stabilizing the dam. The spillway channel was lowered 10 
feet and a rock buttress was constructed on the downstream side of the dam. Phase 2 of this 
project began in late August and is continuing. 



Land Use-Related Issues 

• Montana's stream access law allows travel for water- related recreational purposes within the 
mean high water lines of most of Montana's streams. In the spring and summer of 1997, some 
property owners in the Ruby River area reportedly began raising funds to finance a legal challenge 
of Montana's stream access law in federal court. Advocates of stream access formed a counter- 
challenge group and raised awareness of the issue by holding a protest float on the Ruby. The 
issue was twofold: stream access in general, and the more specific concern of access to rivers at 
county bridges. In June of 1998, the Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks (FWP) issued a 
request for an Attorney General's opinion on stream access from road rights-of-way at bridges. As 
of July 1998 the opinion had not been issued nor (regarding the broader issue) was a legal 
challenge filed. (On a related topic, in the late summer of 1998, the counter-challenge group began 
discussing with sportsmens' groups, legislators, and the FWP the viability of proposed river 
management legislation similar to that introduced to the 1997 Legislature that would allow 
broader FWP involvement in river recreation management.) 

• On March 30, 1998, a major landslide entered the Blackfoot River, blocking 200 yards of river 
two miles upstream from River Junction Campground, southeast of Ovando. The landslide 
involved 15 acres owned by a timber company. Montana Department of Environmental Quality 
(DEQ) officials later determined that the landslide occurred naturally and not directly by human 
activity. State officials planned to stabilize the slide by planting willows and other riparian greens, 
but otherwise leave the landslide alone. Meanwhile, the state alerted river floaters by placing 
warning signs at access points upstream from the landslide. 

• During the 1997 Legislative Session, a group of legislators asked the Montana Consensus Council 
(MCC) to assess trends, issues, and concerns related to development pressure and management 
along Montana's stream corridors. Several EQC members were among the 80 individuals 
interviewed for the "situation assessment" (what the MCC called the product of their efforts) 
which followed. In conducting the assessment, the MCC concluded that various entities have 
different definitions for stream corridors. 

The MCC concluded in July 1998 that a statewide consensus building process would not be 
appropriate at this time because there lacked agreement over: 1) the feasibility of consensus, 2) 
the scope of issues that need addressing, and 3) the urgency of addressing stream corridor issues. 
Nevertheless, interviewees endorsed consensus building in general. The MCC concluded that 
perhaps such a process could be invoked when more agreement can be garnered or when 
subcommittees are working on specific issues within the larger stream corridor picture. 

Based on the inquiry, the MCC suggested three options for how to proceed: 1) rely on existing 
voluntary, incentive-based efforts, 2) seek new partnerships, and 3) develop legislative proposals. 



Page 1 8 EQC 1 998 Water Policy Report 



The situation assessment was made available for public comment until August 7, 1998, and MCC 
staff sought additional comment through October 1998. Responses included the following 
repeated, refined, or new themes: 

Support voluntary, incentive-based efforts; 

Promote new watershed-type councils as appropriate; 

Use the Streamside Management Zone law and the BMP approach (Best Management Practices) 

to forest practices as a model for mining, agriculture, and other land uses; 

Develop legislative proposals to address specific needs and opportunities; and 

Realize that some stream corridor issues (i.e. certain riparian habitat issues) related to endangered 

fish species will probably have to be resolved in the courts. 

• Staff of Montana's congressional delegation, as well as state and federal agency representatives, 
met in May 1998 to hear concerns from landowners regarding the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' 
permitting process for river related (i.e. bank stabilization) projects on the Yellowstone 
River. One item discussed was the Governor's Yellowstone River Task Force's effort to lead a 
cumulative effects study on the river. As of July 1998 there had been no change in the permitting 
process. 

• The filing of Chapter 1 1 bankruptcy protection by a Montana mine in 1998 raised the issue of 
bonding adequacy for mine reclamation and the relationship between bonds and water-related 
commitments at Montana mines. In September 1998 DEQ staff provided additional information on 
this topic, noting that water treatment bonding at the mine was on more solid ground than the 
reclamation (dirt work) bonding, as the water treatment bonding is under a Consent Decree (based 
on cash/trust funds), and reclamation bonds are sureties (i.e. essentially insurance policies). DEQ 
staff added that not all of the cash for water treatment was in place; the mine company makes one 
payment a year, and there is a financial assurance bond in place to cover a missed payment. 

Fisheries- Related Issues 

• Montana's fish eradication policy became an issue in the Spring of 1998 when the Department of 
Fish, Wildlife and Parks (FWP) proposed an eradication project to eliminate nonnative fish and 
introduce westslope cutthroat trout to a portion of Cherry Creek, a tributary to the Madison River, 
in southwestern Montana. The proposed action was a component of the statewide fisheries 
management plan (Fisheries 2000). Several public meetings were held to discuss the proposal. In 
July 1998, following the meetings, a decision notice was released announcing the initiation of the 
fish eradication plan. The elimination of nonnative fish was set for August 1 1th- 16th. This project 
was stopped on August 1 1th when the owner of the land where most of the fish-kill was planned 
explained he was unaware that the eradication efforts were set to begin this year. He felt there 
remained several controversial issues which needed to be addressed before moving forward with 
the project. Poisoning of nonnative trout was canceled for Cherry Creek for 1998. 

• As of early 1998, nearly 300 individual Montana waters had been tested for whirling disease, and 
the associated parasite detected at over 60 individual sites. Recent research of the disease focuses 
on the effects of water temperature on its transmission, trout species susceptibility, and the 
possibility that light initial infections may provide resistance to more severe cases. In addition, the 
economic impacts of whirling disease are being investigated, and disease monitoring in Montana's 
waters continues. Whirling disease was found in the Blackfoot River in the fall of 1997. This 
discovery was made accidentally when several cages of young rainbow trout in a metals-pollution 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 19 



study were found to be mildly to severely infected. Previous tests of the Blackfoot indicated that 
this disease was not present in either 1995 or 1996. Updated information on whirling disease in 
Montana is available at two web sites: Montana's Whirling Disease Task Force web page, 
"http://whirlingdisease.org/index.htm" and Montana's Water Center web page, 
"http://btc.montana.edu/watercenter/docs/whirling.html". 

The Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks (FWP) is pursuing a unique planning process to create 
a guide for managing the fisheries of Canyon Ferry, Holter, and Hauser Reservoirs. A unique 
aspect of this planning is that a working group guided by the Montana Consensus Council, and 
consisting of upstream and downstream fishing and business interests, will be collecting data, 
holding public forums, and providing input to the department in the initial stages of the planning 
process before a draft plan is created. The group will address the controversial issue of the 
management of walleye and trout in Canyon Ferry, and similarly affected Holter, and Hauser 
Reservoirs. Currently, an interim Canyon Ferry plan treats walleye as an illegally introduced 
species. Public information meetings were held July 15th and in mid- September. 

The Bull Trout Restoration Team (established by the Governor in 1994) continued its work in 
1997 and 1998 to produce a restoration plan for bull trout. The Team's Scientific Group provided 
guidance on technical issues, including: habitat requirements and land use impacts, removal and 
suppression of introduced species, and the use of hatcheries and transplants in restoration. In early 
fall 1998, the Team completed a draft restoration plan and will seek public review on it in early 
December. After incorporating comments and producing a final plan, the Team will probably be 
disbanded. The plan, however, recommends the creation of a Steering Committee to coordinate 
implementation of the plan. (Additional information on this topic is provided under Endangered 
Species, beginning on p. 12). 



EQC OVERSIGHT OF AGENCY ACTIONS RELATED TO WATER 
RESOURCES 

EQC Oversight Activities 

The EQC, in its role of general oversight of state agencies' programs related to water and other natural 
resource issues, conducted several inquiries into program implementation, including: 

Requesting that the DEQ respond to recent issues related to reorganization of the impact analysis bureau, 

mid-point progress on compliance and enforcement reporting, and other topics; 

Fulfilling a public request for a Council/Water Policy Subcommittee Co-Chair field trip to review water- and 

mine-related concerns in the Hilger area; 

Tracking (along with the EQC's Growth Subcommittee) DEQ's efforts to address jurisdictional issues in the 

review of subdivisions; 

Responding to an outstanding request to look into water right and subdivision issues in the Gallatin Valley 

area; and 

Implementing the first round of natural resource agency compliance and enforcement reporting, newly 

required via passage of HB 1 32 in 1 997. 

In addition to these activities, some topics discussed by the Subcommittee related both to the Council's 
broad oversight responsibilities, as well as potentially to water resources. Notably, the Subcommittee 
expressed concern over the Interim regarding DEQ's loss of its subdivision review staff, and noted that 



Page 20 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



there appeared to be continued issues regarding the program' s ability to keep up with programmatic and 
statutory requirements for subdivision review. 



A Water Policy Case Study 

In their Gallatin Valley water rights case study, the EQC's Water Policy Subcommittee used an individual 
citizen's concerns to investigate the general interaction of four sets of state policies: water rights and 
permitting, 310 permitting, MEPA, and subdivision review at the local and state levels. EQC staff 
provided a chronology of issues related to state and local policies in the situation, and the Subcommittee 
provided a forum in June for the requestor and related agency staff to air their views. Issues, options, and 
Subcommittee/agency actions related to this case study are described in Figure 1 (next page). 



EQC 1 998 Water Policy Report Page 2 1 



Figure 1. Issues, Options, and Subcommittee Actions Related to a Case Study of Water Rights and Subdivision Issues in the Gallatin Valley 



Issues/Opportunities Identified 

1 ) MEPA played a less than helpful role in the 
water use permit process; there is a heavy 
reliance on the objector process to elicit 
information and analysis; 1995 MEPA 
amendments that require an assessment of 
impacts to private property (i.e. water rights) 
were not incorporated into EA. 

2) There is no prohibition to realigning a 
waterway, except for the general prohibition 
against an "adverse effect" downstream; the 31 
process does not include a review of potential 
effects on water rights. 

3) Subdivision development occurs before water 
rights are completely secured. 



4) There was conflicting evidence as to the 
availability of the requested amount of water, 
raising concerns about how DNRC's evidentiary 
test (i.e. preponderance of evidence) is carried 
out in deciding whether to issue a permit. 

5) There are general issues related to ensuring 
water right/ditch access in areas being 
subdivided. 



Options Discussed 

The Subcommittee could recommend that DNRC water 
rights staff work with EQC staff to identify mechanisms and 
means to make the MEPA process associated with water 
permits more useful and credible. 



The Subcommittee could recommend that EQC staff develop 
legislative options for prohibiting realignment of a waterway 
until after relevant downstream water rights are considered. 



The Subcommittee could direct EQC staff to evaluate 
existing permitting statutes and proposals for coordinated 
permitting to see where there may be gaps regarding 
approval of subdivision development before water rights are 
assured. If there is insufficient existing authority to ensure a 
viable project (or one consistent with state or local permit 
conditioning), legislative options could be developed. 

The Subcommittee could request that the DNRC provide a 
written summary of their interpretation of the preponderance 
of evidence test, including examples of when flows are 
insufficient to meet the test, and a description of how 
uncertainty is incorporated. 

The Subcommittee could direct EQC staff to evaluate the 
proposed subdivision-related legislation from the Montana 
Water Resources Association (MWRA) to see if the proposal 
resolves issues identified in this case study, and/or whether 
additions or changes could be made to it to more fully 
address the issues. 



Action Taken 

The DNRC requested MEPA training from EQC staff; 
training occurred November 1 7, 1 998 and included a 
dialogue on how to better integrate MEPA into the 
water use permitting process. DNRC requested follow- 
up EQC staff assistance and training in 1 999. 



This option was not pursued. 



Department of Commerce staff advise that local 
jurisdictions have the authority to condition 
development to prohibit breaking ground until after all 
relevant permits are obtained. EQC staff effort is 
ongoing regarding legislative proposals for 
coordinated permitting. 



The DNRC provided a written response (available 
from the EQC office); no further action was taken. 



The Subcommittee recommended that MWRA, Board 
of Realtors, and Department of Commerce staff meet 
to discuss the MWRA irrigation/subdivision legislative 
proposal, determine if legislation is needed to address 
issues, and if so, whether the proposal needs revision. 
They also recommended that the group discuss 
whether some type of mandatory disclosure related to 
water rights would assist in resolving issues and to 
consider the portion of the proposal dealing with 
situations where it may be best to sever water rights 
from the land before subdividing. 



Page 22 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



Figure 1. Issues, Options, and Subcommittee Actions Related to a Case Study of Water Rights and Subdivision Issues in the Gallatin Valley 



Issues/Opportunities Identified 

6) Additional general information for landowners 
is needed related to water rights and the need to 
protect them. 



7) Even if water use permits are conditioned to 
allow use only in certain ways or at certain times 
and measuring devices are required concerns 
may continue if there is limited agency oversight 
or monitoring of whether conditions are met. 

8) (same issue as above) 



9) The case study provided an opportunity to 
learn about water permitting and investigate 
related policy issues "on-the-ground". 

1 0) The water use permit in this case referenced 
only the higher of two seasonal flows, due to a 
flaw in the computer system. 



Options Discussed 

The Subcommittee could endorse the efforts of the Gallatin 
area agencies to develop a combined water-related project 
application list and determine whether water rights are 
appropriately addressed in that list and related processes. 
Also, the Subcommittee could suggest that water rights 
information in A Guide to Stream Permitting in Montana 
discuss prohibitions to adversely affecting a downstream 
water right holder and how to access water right information. 
The Subcommittee also noted that the Code of the New 
1/Vesf publication developed in Beaverhead County to inform 
landowners of issues associated with purchasing rural lands 
in Montana could assist in this regard. The Subcommittee 
could ask EQC staff to check with the Department of 
Commerce to determine whether the similar publication they 
are contemplating would satisfy this need. 

The Subcommittee could request an update from DNRC 
regarding rule proposals related to measuring devices, to 
determine whether concerns over monitoring/reporting of 
permit conditions are addressed to the satisfaction of the 
Subcommittee. 

The Subcommittee could check with other states regarding 
when water commissioners are invoked and funding 
mechanisms to do so. The results could be compared to 
Montana's system to see if any opportunities became 
evident. 

The Subcommittee could document issues and results in its 
Water Policy Report to the Legislature. 



The Subcommittee could recommend the DNRC make 
corrections to its computer system (to enable seasonal flow 
restrictions on a water permit to show up on the Permit) a 
priority for staff attention. 



Action Taken 

The Subcommittee endorsed the cooperative efforts in 
the Gallatin area to develop a combined water related 
project application list. The DNRC will pursue 
incorporating water right information into the next 
publication of A Guide to Stream Permitting in 
Montana. The Department of Commerce plans to 
produce a Code of the New West-type publication this 
biennium, but it will be less of a priority than any 
guidance they will need to reissue due to legislative 
changes. The Subcommittee also endorsed the 
Montana Association of Conservation Districts' effort 
to provide Board of Realtors-accredited courses 
related to water and rural issues. They discussed 
whether such training should be mandatory, but 
declined to make such a recommendation. 

DNRC staff reported that the Task Force they 
convened to discuss potential rules for measuring 
devices recommended the department not develop 
rules, but follow existing informal policy. The 
Subcommittee took no further action on this issue. 

Attendees at the August Subcommittee meeting 
provided some information on how other states and 
Montana differ. The Subcommittee decided not to 
further pursue the issue. 



Done. 



The DNRC noted the problem was not with the 
computer. The permit was reissued with both flow 
amounts. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 23 



Figure 1. Issues, Options, and Subcommittee Actions Related to a Case Study of Water Rights and Subdivision Issues in the Gallatin Valley 



Issues/Opportunities Identified 

1 1) It appeared in this case that existing water rights 
information was not introduced into the deliberations 
until the objector process, although an applicant is 
required to submit such information with an 
application. 

12) There may be other options to address issues. 



13) Record keeping could be improved, and there was 
a mistake on the permit (see also issues #10 and 11). 

14) If the fish and wildlife flow applied for was really 
to fill a fire protection pond, shouldn't the process 
acknowledge that? Is that type of use non- 
consumptive, as required by the Upper Missouri 
Basin closure? 

15) Current statutes require an analysis of potential 
impacts to "agricultural water use systems"; is the 
implementation of this requirement adequate? 



16) Additional enforcement authority may be needed 
to relieve the need of a water right holder to pursue 
issues in court to protect water rights. 



Options Discussed 

The Subcommittee could recommend that enhanced access to the 
computerized water rights system be made a priority, and request 
an update from representatives of the Water Information System 
and DNRC on obstacles and opportunities for doing so. 



The Subcommittee could direct EQC staff to forward options and 
background to others to gather additional suggestions. 

The Subcommittee could investigate whether a legislative audit of 
the water permitting program had ever been done. 

The Subcommittee could request information from DNRC on the 
relationship between dry hydrants, non-consumptive use, and 
water rights, including whether fire flows are non-consumptive. 



The Subcommittee could direct EQC staff to check with the 
Department of Commerce to see what assistance/guidance they 
provide to local governments regarding assessing impacts on 
agriculture under the Subdivision and Platting Act and see if there 
is room for improvement. 

The Subcommittee could investigate additional enforcement 
authorities for the DNRC or others related to water rights and 
conditioned water permits. This could also involve reviewing the 
"complaint" process to see if that could be improved. 



Action Tal^en 

DNRC staff note this is a high priority for them and 
described recent efforts. The Subcommittee took no further 
action. 



The Subcommittee did not wish to further pursue this 
option. 

EQC staff contacted Audit staff, who noted they did not 
recall conducting an audit of the water permit program. 

The DNRC responded (available from EQC office). The 
Subcommittee took no further action on this issue. 



Guidance has not been provided since the statutory change 
was encoded (1995). Department of Commerce staff plan to 
issue related guidance after the 1999 Session. The 
department feels existing local mitigation authorities are 
broad. (See also actions under issue #5.) 

The Subcommittee did not wish to pursue this option. 



Page 24 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



General Council Conclusions and Recommendations Regarding Oversight 

The Subcommittee discussed the pros and cons of legislative oversight of site-specific natural resource 
issues. They concluded that, on the one hand, it is important to be able to view issues on-the-ground and 
discuss the consequences of state policies with the entities that are affected by them. It also provides an 
opportunity for investigating the interaction (or lack of) of multiple policies on Montana citizens; a 
typical legislative discussion may not deal with interacting policies. However, the Subcommittee 
concluded the Legislature must be careful which case studies they choose to pursue, as they cannot 
respond to all such requests, and fairness is a concern. They recommended the following: 

• The next Environmental Quality Council should develop a policy for the 1 999-00 Interim regarding when and 

how to respond to requests for site-specific Council oversight of natural resource issues, especially those 
that would involve Council member travel to a specific site. Consideration should be given to: 

- Whether the requestor has participated in available processes to address concerns 

- Whether there appear to be "real" policy issues that may be applicable to other Montanans and solvable; 

- Whether all parties subject to an issue or concern are willing to and available to participate in a discussion 

- Whether legislative involvement could affect or be affected by pending litigation in the matter; and 

- Whether EQC and/or agency staff are available to assist in distilling facts and issues. 

The next Council should also ensure a standard approach for how such issues are raised to the Council. 



COMMUNICATING WITH THE PUBLIC 

The following activities fulfilled the EQC's water- related statutory mandate to communicate with the 
public on water-related topics: 

EQC staff have partnered with others to produce guide books on the Montana Environmental Policy Act and 
on Montana's water quality and water quantity policies. They are made available upon request, free of 
charge. A portion of the Subcommittee's HB 546 Qversight Report has been constructed as a "primer" on 
this major revision to Montana's water quality program. 

This Interim, information for the Legislative Services Division and the EQC is available on the Internet for 
the first time. 

Council and Subcommittee agendas are posted to the computerized State Bulletin Board and mailed to the 
Council's 250+ person mailing list two weeks in advance of meetings. 

Council staff regularly prepare responses to information requests from Legislators, agency staff, and the 
public. 

The Council and its Subcommittees held three out-of-town meetings; in Missoula, Great Falls, and Dillon. 

The Council invited interested persons to join their HB 546 Implementation Tour in the Upper Beaverhead 
Valley in June. 

All Council/Subcommittee meetings are open to the public. Public comment is encouraged. 

The Subcommittee/Council chose to respond to certain issues raised by members of the public; 
communication was maintained with those raising the issues. 

Many Subcommittee/Council meetings involve panel discussions, targeted commentors, previous 
solicitation of options from known interested parties, and other mechanisms to solicit and incorporate public 
comment into Council deliberations. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 25 



EQC staff and members attend various non-Council meetings and functions and provide relevant 
information regarding water policy and resources when requested. When resources permit, EQC staff 
respond to requests to moderate or speak at conferences and seminars related to water policy. 

This report was made available for a three-week public review and the final version will be available free of 
charge to those wishing copies. 



Page 26 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



•vw •w\ 



4. THE EQC'S PROGRAM-SPECIFIC MANDATES 



•V^A •w\ 



Section 85-2-105(3), MCA requires the Environmental Quality Council (EQC), "on a regular basis," to: 

(a) analyze and comment on the state water plan required by 85-1 -203, when filed by the department [of 
natural resources and conservation]; 

(b) analyze and comment on the report of the status of the state's renewable resource grant and loan 
program required by 85-1 -621 , when filed by the department; 

(c) analyze and comment on water-related research undertaken by any state agency, institution, college, 
or university; 

(d) analyze, verify, and comment on the adequacy of and information contained in the water information 
system maintained by the natural resource information system under 90-15-305; and 

(e) report to the legislature as provided in 5-1 1 -21 0. [Emphasis added.] 

This section of statute requires the Council to "analyze and comment" on four water-related programs and report to 
the Legislature. Each of the four topics was the subject of an agency update to the Council during the 1997-98 
Interim. Each presenter was asked to provide the following information within their update: 

• history/mandate (how you got to where you are/what it is you're supposed to accomplish) 

• major accomplishments/current status (where you are) 

• goals (where you're headed) 

• challenges and issues (specifically those related to state policy) 

• requests of the Council/potential Council role (if any) in future efforts 

Relevant components of each of these updates are provided below, along with what analysis and comment the 
Council has made so far. Each writeup also includes a series of staff- or presenter-generated options for further 
Council analysis and comment and the resulting recommendations. 



STATE WATER PLAN 

Section 85-2-105(3), MCA, requires the EQC to: 

(a) analyze and comment on the state water plan required by 85-1 -203, when filed by the department. 

Section 85-1-203, MCA, also describes necessary components and procedures of the State Water Plan process: 

(2) The department shall formulate and adopt and amend, extend, or add to a comprehensive, coordinated 
multiple-use water resources plan known as the "state water plan". . . . The state water plan must set out a 
progressive program for the conservation, development, and utilization of the state's water resources and 
propose the most effective means by which these water resources may be applied for the benefit of the 
people, with due consideration of alternative uses and combinations of uses. Before adopting the state 
water plan or any section of the plan, the department shall hold public hearings in the state or in an area of 
the state encompassed by a section of the plan if adoption of a section is proposed. 

(3) The department shall submit to the environmental quality council . . . and to the legislature at the 
beginning of each regular session the state water plan or any section of the plan or amendments, additions, 
or revisions to the plan that the department has formulated and adopted. 

(4) The legislature, by joint resolution, may revise the state water plan . . . 

EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 27 



(7) In developing and revising the state water plan as provided in this section, the department shall consult 
with the environmental quality council . . . and solicit the advice of the committee in carrying out its duties 
under this section. 



Background 

From 1987 to 1994, the Department of Natural Resources and Conservation (DNRC) used a tightly structured 
planning process to develop sections of a statewide water plan. The collaborative, consensus-based planning 
process consisted of a governor-appointed Water Plan Advisory Council (WPAC), public meetings to identify 
relevant issues for study, broad-based steering committees appointed by the WPAC to analyze the identified issues, 
public hearings on the Steering Committee and WPAC recommendations, and Board of Natural Resources and 
Conservation (BNRC) adoption of the final plan sections. This phase of the water planning process produced 
chapters on the following issues: instream flow, water storage, the connection between water quantity and water 
quality, drought management, agricultural water use efficiency, water resource data management, and the 
relationship between state water rights and the authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 

The DNRC decided that during the 1993-1994 Interim, instead of analyzing a specific water issue, it would analyze 
the process itself and therefore created the State Water Plan Review Working Group. Using extensive public 
involvement, the Working Group produced a 17-point decision summary outlining suggestions on the State Water 
Plan process. The primary recommendation was that the DNRC continue developing the State Water Plan, 
addressing both statewide and watershed issues. The DNRC approved the 17-point decision summary regarding the 
water plan evaluation and the Legislature's Water Policy Committee (responsibilities of which are now assigned to 
the EQC) endorsed this document and the implementing legislation during the 1995 Session. The legislation, HE 
192, failed. However, its concept of removing the BNRC from the state water planning process was, in effect, 
approved by the passage of SB 234 that eliminated the BNRC altogether. 

Overall since 1987, eight bills have evolved from the state water planning process; seven were passed into law. The 
remaining bill, which would have ensured compliance with existing water well construction standards, was based 
upon protecting the customer. The Board of Water Well Contractors and the drillers opposed the bill and it died. 



Current DNRC Water-Related Activities: 

Mr. Rich Moy, Chief of the Water Management Bureau in the DNRC, presented an update on the State Water Plan 
and the DNRC's activities regarding water policy at the March 12, 1998 EQC meeting. Mr. Moy stated that there 
are currently three State Water Plan issues at varying stages of development: 1) development of a comprehensive 
ground water plan, 2) a wetland strategy, and 3) integration of surface and ground water management. The first 
issue is the closest to completion, and will likely be considered for legislation during the 1999 Session. The second 
issue is further from completion and will not be covered during the 1999 Legislative Session. Finally, the third 
issue is still in the discussion stage. 

Mr. Moy updated the Council on current focus areas of the State Water Plan and other efforts of his bureau: 

• Currently, most of the DNRC's effort has been spent working in local watersheds. Staff are actively 

involved with the following watershed areas or groups: the Bitterroot Water Forum, the Upper Clark Fork 
Steering Committee, the Big Hole Watershed, the Flathead Basin Commission, the Sun/Muddy Creek Task 
Force, the Blackfoot Challenge, the Upper Yellowstone Task Force, and the Upper Tenmile Watershed. 
The DNRC provides a variety of services to these groups, as detailed in a summary distributed by Mr. Moy 
at the meeting (see Appendix, p. A-1). 



Page 28 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



Several years ago, a collection of entities (including DNRC staff) formed the Montana Watershed 
Coordination Council (MWCC) to assist in ensuring that natural resource agencies active in Montana work 
together to provide more effective assistance at the local watershed level. A 1995 interagency 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) defines goals and procedures for watershed-related interagency 
coordination and cites the Coordination Council as an important player in this coordination. 

The DNRC is working on several projects in river basins, including work on the master manual for the 
Missouri River Basin Association, assisting the Northwest Power Planning Council on issues affecting the 
Columbia River Basin, and producing GIS data in several other areas. GIS data is currently assisting 
decision-making along the Milk River. 

The DNRC has recently become involved in providing coordination for two rural water supply systems, the 
Fort Peck Rural Water District and the Rocky Boy Central Pipeline. Mr. Moy stated that continued DNRC 
involvement is in question. 

The DNRC wrote grants and obtained funding for several groups, including a water quality improvement 
strategy (TMDL) grant for the Flathead, grants for return flow studies for Flint Creek and the North Fork of 
the Blackfoot, and an arsenic study for the Missouri River Basin. 

The DNRC is working in water education and coordinating with the Montana Watercourse to produce 
seminars, publications, and resource documents. 

The DNRC is knowledgeable in drought-related studies and is providing staff support to the Governor's 
Drought Advisory Council. 



Mr. Moy explained to the EQC that because most of the State Water Plan focus areas are dedicated to assisting 
local watershed groups, there is no specific document summarizing this work. However, there are technical reports 
available. Mr. Moy added that no specific State Water Plan report has been submitted to the Legislature for the last 
two sessions. 



Water-Related Challenges facing the DNRC (as presented by Mr. Moy) include: 

(Please Note: The following topics are not specific to the State Water Plan. However, since the Plan has become 
broader in focus, and because these challenges may be of interest to the Legislature and others, they are provided 
below.) 

• Meaningful and accurate adjudication. Questions exist as to the accuracy of the final decrees. The issue 
is how accurate an adjudication does the Legislature want to see? The DNRC has just completed their 
"comments" on claims in the Bitterroot drainage — how will the Water Court consider these comments, and 
will they influence the Court's decisions? 

• TMDLs - how they relate to water rights. A lot of "impairments" (i.e. causes for water bodies to be 
placed on the Department of Environmental Quality's (DEQ) 303(d) list), are related to nonpoint source 
pollution. Many return flows from irrigated agriculture create nonpoint pollution. The statute states there 
may be no effect on water rights, so there needs to be some assurance nonpoint issues can be addressed and 
water rights protected, specifically those dealing with flood irrigation. (Note: This issue is included as a 
"policy consideration" in the Council's HB 546 Oversight Report.) 

• The need for funds to support the administrative costs of local watershed groups. As groups of local 
people begin solving local problems, these organizations are becoming effective modes of governance, but 
have limited funds for administration. About 40-50 groups are in various stages of development in 
Montana. About $5,000-$7,000 per group is an estimated figure needed to cover administrative costs. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 29 



DNRC will request additional funds from the 1999 Legislature to allow them to assist watershed groups 
and conservation districts with administrative expenses. (Note: This issue is also included as a policy 
consideration in the Council's HB 546 Oversight Report.) 

Effects of development and population growth on surface water and ground water quality. These 
issues need to be tracked as more people move into Montana's mountain valleys. 

Funding for rural water supplies. Funding is lacking, and there is little help from the federal government. 

Statewide wetland strategy. It is challenging to develop a statewide wetland strategy that is effective and 
provides incentives at the local level to help agricultural users and others participate in wetland 
conservation. 

Influence on large federal reservoir operations. The state would benefit from more influence on the 
operation of large federal reservoirs, specifically Hungry Horse and Libby Reservoirs. Mr. Moy noted that 
there is discussion that the Northwest Power Planning Council jurisdiction should be expanded so that 
states could have more control over how these reservoirs are operated. 

Infrastructure. Deteriorating water supply infrastructure will continue to be an issue for the next 10-15 
years. There is a need to rehabilitate infrastructure at both private and federal dam and irrigation projects. 
According to Mr. Moy, this is a major issue. 

Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) related issue. With Montana Power Company (MPC) 
selling its hydropower facilities on the Missouri River, the DNRC's concern (as a water supply entity) is 
the effect a new owner might have on existing water rights. The DNRC worked with the Governor on 
wording to request FERC to consider in its final EIS the effects of a call on junior water users. MPC has 
never made a call on the junior water users. Since the priority dates on some of the power projects are very 
early (i.e. 1898, 1905, 1908, etc.), if MPC or its successor starts making calls, there could be significant 
impacts on the junior water users. Local economies have evolved over the last 50-60 years around these 
water projects. 

The DNRC is also looking at a similar issue with Washington Water Power (WWP), which is a non- 
Montana-based utility with a huge water right (50,000 cfs from the lower Clark Fork Basin). It is, by far, 
the largest water right in the State of Montana— 2.5 times larger than any other Montana water right and 5 
times larger than any water right on Montana's portion of the Missouri River system. The company's 
actions can significantly affect water use, but their right is somewhat junior (i.e. 1950, 1951, and 1959 
totaling 35,000 cfs, and 1976 for an additional 15,000 cfs). DNRC is trying to work with WWP to allow 
them to continue operating as they have operated historically (i.e. without making a call to junior water 
users), and encouraging the FERC to incorporate this relationship in its license renewal. DNRC has also 
been encouraging WWP to begin objecting to new provisional water use permits that would adversely 
affect their water right. Historically, WWP had not objected to any permits. 



Council Analysis and Comment -- State Water Plan 

Topics discussed by the Water Policy Subcommittee following this presentation included: 

1. A member of the Subcommittee asked why the failure of the proposed portion of the State Water Plan 

dealing with oversight of proper well construction standards was not listed as a concern. Mr. Moy 
responded that he did identify ground water contamination as a concern and that the intent of the bill that 
didn't pass was to protect the ground water consumer. 



Page 30 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



This same Subcommittee member asked whether there have been any effects of unregulated wells on the 
quality of surface water. Mr. Moy responded that there are problem areas, primarily in the more populated 
valleys, such as the Missoula Valley. He added that the statutes allow for the creation of local water quality 
districts; some are in existence, others are being considered. For small communities or farm lands, ranchers 
and farmers need to become more proactive to protect their water quality. 

The Subcommittee member asked how a watershed group could protect their ground water without being 
able to regulate how ground water wells were constructed. Mr. Moy responded that a group could look at 
the force of statute (i.e. the Controlled Ground Water Area statute or creation of a water quality district). 
They could also choose to be more actively involved in subdivision review, could work with the Montana 
Bureau of Mines and Geology (MBMG) on their ground water assessment and more site-specific ground 
water studies (to build a case that is an issue). They could also seek to close a basin to ground water 
appropriation permits. Even though local watershed groups may not have authority, the people on a group 
can represent enough of a power base that they can influence decisions and affect what happens in the 
watershed. 

Another Subcommittee member asked whether Mr. Moy thought that even though the well-related 
legislation did not pass— was there enough on the books to protect the customer? Mr. Moy responded in the 
negative, but noted the issue was sensitive, was a hard fight in the Legislature, but DNRC lost. 

Mr. Moy commented that the well-related bill that passed in the Upper Clark Fork basin last legislative 
session was a positive step toward better ground water protection. Here, the burden is on the applicant to 
hire a ground water hydrologist and show there will not be an impact on surface water. A Subcommittee 
member agreed that this shift in the burden of proof was a good piece of legislation. He added that well- 
head protection laws are intended to protect from the co-mingling of ground water and surface water; it is a 
violation to use a well as a conduit for surface waters. 

2. The question was raised by a Subcommittee member whether watershed groups can really emerge, given 
that they are primarily voluntary and do not have financial resources and legal expertise at their disposal. 
Mr. Moy responded that there are resources available to these groups. DNRC attempts to help any 
interested groups. If DNRC is unable to help, they will request assistance from DEQ, Conservation 
Districts, or the Natural Resource Conservation Service. Mr. Moy felt government was becoming more 
effective in assisting these groups solve their problems. 

3. Regarding Mr. Moy's request, one member felt that the Subcommittee should recommend to the full 
Council that the Subcommittee serve as the Advisory Committee for the State Water Plan chapter that is 
being drafted. Later in the meeting this suggestion was revisited, and other Subcommittee members 
concurred. 

As a result of the proposed decision to recommend to the Council that the Water Policy Subcommittee 
serve as the State Water Plan Advisory Committee, Mr. Moy commented that the issue he would be 
working with with the Subcommittee would be the Comprehensive Ground Water Plan. One Subcommittee 
member questioned whether the frequency and consistency of membership of the EQC Subcommittee made 
it an appropriate choice. Mr. Moy believed it did. Another member commented that this was an opportunity 
to better coordinate between water quality and water quantity. The Subcommittee began in this capacity at 
their June meeting. 

The Water Policy Subcommittee as State Water Plan Advisory Committee for 1997-98 . As noted 
above, the Water Policy Subcommittee granted a request by DNRC that they serve as the State Water Plan 
Advisory committee for the 1997-98 Interim. They received updates from DNRC on the status of the proposed Plan 
chapter, the efforts of the work group creating the chapter, public comment. The Subcommittee took particular 
interest in the topics related to liability for cleanup, the potential for financial incentives to encourage voluntary 
cleanup (i.e. a state "Brownfields" program), and interagency coordination. At its October meeting the EQC 



EQC 1 998 Water Policy Report Page 3 1 



endorsed the proposed Plan chapter and its recommendations, and requested preparation of a related study 
resolution (see Recommendations, below). 

Council Recommendations 

• Future Councils (or a designated Subcommittee) slnould strongly consider continuing to serve as the State 
Water Plan Advisory Council. Subcommittees could serve as the focal point for review and comment in the 
development of the Plan sections, with full EQC involvement for final discussion and approval of each plan 
section. 

• As suggested at the Great Falls Watershed Conference in December, funds are needed to cover 
administrative costs of local watershed groups. Funds are available for projects, but not general operations. 
The Subcommittee supports local watershed groups and conservation districts having the resources 
necessary to continue this important work. (See also related policy consideration in HB 546 Oversight 
Report.) 

• The Subcommittee encourages appropriate entities to work with the agricultural industry to enhance 
development of realistic and practical BMPs for voluntary application within the industry. (See also related 
policy consideration in HB 546 Oversight Report.) 

The Subcommittee recommends the next EOC, in collaboration with the Department of Environmental 
Ouality's Remediation Division and the Department of Revenue, should make a priority of undertaking a 
study to determine the need for and utility of tax and other types of financial incentives to encourage 
voluntary clean-up and redevelopment of contaminated sites within Montana. The incentive should be 
structured in a way to be sure that only persons with no prior connection to the property and who did not 
contribute to the contamination receive the incentive. The Subcommittee also recommends this concept be 
introduced to the 1999 Legislature as a Council-sponsored study resolution. 



RENEWABLE RESOURCE GRANT AND LOAN PROGRAM 

Section 85-2-105(3), MCA, requires the EQC to: 

(b) analyze and comment on the report of the status of the state's renewable resource grant and loan 
program required by 85-1 -621 , when filed by the department. 

The purpose and policies of Montana's Renewable Resource Grant and Loan (RRGL) Program are described in 
statute as follows: 

85-1-601. Purpose and policies. (1) The legislature finds and declares that in order that the people of 
Montana may enjoy the benefits of the state's water and other renewable resources, the state shall 
establish this long-term renewable resource grant and loan program providing financial and administrative 
assistance to private for-profit, private, nonprofit, local government, state government, and tribal government 
entities for renewable resource grant and loan projects. 

(2) The purpose of the renewable resource grant and loan program is to further the state's policies, set forth 
in 85-1 -1 01 , regarding the conservation, development, and beneficial use of water resources and to invest 

in renewable natural resource projects that will preserve for the citizens of Montana the economic and other 
benefits of the state's natural heritage. 

(3) The legislature recognizes the value of Montana's renewable resources; therefore, it is appropriate that 
a portion of the taxes and other revenue from nonrenewable resources be invested in the replacement of 
nonrenewable resources with the development of renewable resource projects that will continue to provide 
tax and other revenue and will preserve for the citizens the economic and other benefits of the state's 
natural heritage. 

(4) The conservation, development, management, and preservation of water and other renewable 
resources are high priorities because a large portion of Montana's present and future economy is based 
either directly or indirectly on the wise use of these resources. 



Page 32 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



(5) Developments supported by this part may not significantly diminish the quality of existing public 
resources, such as land, air, fish, wildlife, and recreation opportunities. 

(6) This renewable resource grant and loan program supports, in part, the implementation and development 
of the comprehensive, coordinated, multiple-use water resources plan known as the "state water plan". In 
making funding recommendations for grants and loans, the department shall give preference to projects that 
will implement state water plan priorities if, in all other respects, the proposed projects are equal in public 
benefit and technical feasibility. 



The objectives of the RRGL Program are described in statute as follows: 



85-1-602. Objectives. (1 ) The department shall administer a renewable resource grant and loan program 
to enhance Montana's renewable resources through projects that measurably conserve, develop, manage, 
or preserve resources. Either grants or loans may be provided to fund the following: 

(a) feasibility, design, research, and resource assessment studies; 

(b) preparation of construction, rehabilitation, or production plans; and 

(c) construction, rehabilitation, production, education, or other implementation efforts. 

(2) Projects that may enhance renewable resources in Montana include but are not limited to: 

(a) development of natural resource-based recreation; 

(b) development of off stream and tributary storage; 

(c) improvement of water use efficiency, including development of new, efficient water systems, 
rehabilitation of older, less efficient water systems, and acquisition and installation of measuring 
devices required under 85-2-1 13; and development of state-tribal, state-federal, and state-tribal- 
federal water projects; and 

(d) advancement of farming practices that reduce agricultural chemical use. 

(3) The renewable resource grant and loan program is the key implementation portion of the state 
water plan and must be administered to encourage grant and loan applications for projects 
designed to accomplish the objectives of the plan. 



The statutes also require the department to solicit and consider the views of interested parties in its evaluation of 
proposed projects (85-1-61 1, MCA). The DNRC is required to submit a copy of the report to the EQC. (In the past, 
the DNRC submitted their report to the Water Policy Committee (WPC), but the WPC was eliminated in 1995 and 
its responsibilities transferred to the EQC.) The Council must analyze and comment on the report when filed by the 
DNRC. 

Background 

Originally, the DNRC filed its RRGL program report just prior to legislative sessions, after the Water Policy 
Committee (WPC) had concluded its interim business. For this reason, historically, the WPC did not analyze or 
comment on the report. 

The 1991-1992 WPC recommended in its report to the 52nd Legislature that the DNRC submit its draft report to 
the WPC at an earlier date. The DNRC complied with this request and submitted a draft report to the WPC at its 
October 1994 meeting. The WPC recommended that the next interim's WPC (responsibilities now held by the 
EQC) continue to work towards efficient and earlier participation in the review and prioritization process. 

Additionally, the WPC remained concerned about the continued use of trust funds, through the grant process, to 
fund general operating expenses of state agencies. The Committee recommended that this issue be studied during 
the 1995-1996 interim if the 1995 Legislature did not take substantive action. HJR 28, which requested a study of 
Resource Indemnity /Ground Water Assessment Trust (RIGWAT) issues, failed during the 54th Legislature. 

At their June 1998 meeting, the EQC heard a presentation from Mr. John Tubbs, chief of the Resource 
Development Bureau in the DNRC, on the RRGL Program and the 62 applications that the DNRC received for the 
1997-1998 Biennium. Mr. Tubbs reported that the DNRC changed the format of the application process to allow 
sufficient time for EQC review before the legislative session. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 33 



Several types of projects in the RRGL Program are not subject to the legislative process. One of these, the 
Emergency Grant and Loan Program, covers projects which would likely incur damage to property or liability to 
the project's sponsor if they were required to wait for legislative review. Each biennium, the DNRC has requested 
$125,000 of appropriation authority (funded through interest monies from the RIT tax) to support this program. As 
emergencies arise, the DNRC is able to respond with grant money, as well as loans. The Emergency Grant and 
Loan Program has $10 million in emergency loan authority. This biennium, an emergency grant was issued for the 
City of Harlem to address a water intake facility pipeline collapse. The DNRC also issued one emergency loan for 
the East Fork Rock Creek Dam west of Phillipsburg to address unsafe conditions at the state-owned dam. 

Mr. Tubbs stated that another program which is not reviewed by the Legislature is the private loan program, which 
provides loan funding for water projects. Ninety-nine percent of these loans are for purchases of sprinkler 
irrigation systems. Water associations have started to take advantage of this program. The DNRC is able to look at 
the revenue stream that an association presents and use this as the security. They are then able to loan up to 
$300,000 at a fixed rate with a typical term of 15 years. 

The last program which does not go before the Legislature provides private grants. Between 1994 and 1998, over 
$200,000 was received. These funds are to be used to assist private individuals, partnerships, or corporations in 
meeting regulatory requirements. The grant is limited to $5,000 or 25% of the project cost, whichever is less. The 
program has been successful in delivering assistance to rural entities with significant problems, allowing them to 
move forward towards regulation compliance. This legislative session, the DNRC will request $100,000 for this 
program. 

The core of the RRGL program involves requests by government agencies for grants and large loans backed by the 
Coal Severance Tax Trust. The DNRC coordinates with other grant and loan programs within the state government 
which fund water, waste water and solid waste facilities. These program representatives have coordinated to 
produce one common application which allows an applicant to apply for multiple sources of funding. Sixty-two 
applications have been submitted for this biennium (see Appendix, p. A-2). Of these, only one-third to one-half of 
the projects will be able to be funded. All but two of the grants approved by the 1997 Legislature have been 
contracted. 

Mr. Tubbs explained that a point system is used to rank the projects. Key reviewers contact additional experts. If 
there are projects on the list which the EQC believes have strong benefits, the Resource Development Bureau is 
interested in the Council's suggestions. Points can be lost if the financial plan is not properly prepared, if the 
project would create adverse environmental impacts, or if the plan lacks clear project management goals and 
implementation. Reviewers also look very closely at the technical feasibility of the project. The greatest designation 
of points goes towards public benefits and is earned by projects which conserve, manage, or protect Montana's 
renewable resources. Points are also earned by projects which enhance renewable resources. Citizen support is 
considered. Tie breaker points are assigned to projects which support the State Water Plan. 

After applications are ranked by the key reviewers, selected applications are reviewed by the Director and are sent 
to the Governor's Office. The selected applications then go into the Executive Budget Office and are reviewed 
before the Long Range Planning Committee, Subcommittee for Appropriations, and Senate Finance and Claims. 
All the project sponsors have the opportunity to give presentations before the final decisionmakers. 

Challenges facing the Renewable Resource Grant and Loan Program (as presented by Mr. Tubbs) include: 

One challenge which may impact the Renewable Resource Grant and Loan (RRGL) Program is the possibility of 
legislative changes in Resource Indemnity Trust (RIT) tax funding during the 1999 Legislative Session. RIT 
interest revenue provides $2 million per biennium for renewable resource grants. These revenues are allocated for 
grants at the beginning of the biennium before allocations are made to other accounts and programs. RIT interest 
earnings are lower than expected this biennium. As a result, FY 1999 ending fund balances in several accounts 
receiving these funds are projected to be negative. This includes the RRGL State Special Revenue Account which, 
in April, had an estimated ending fund balance of $1,540,380. Even though the Renewable Resource Grant funds 



Page 34 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



are deposited into this account, the $2 million allocation must be used for grants. Therefore, the negative ending 
fund balance does not affect any of the authorized grants. 

The Office of Budget and Program Planning and the executive agencies that receive RIT funding have made 
significant progress in reducing the projected deficits. Agencies have reduced appropriations and in some cases 
increased revenues from non-RIT sources. With continued action this fiscal year, all but the RRGL account will 
balance. As of early fall 1998, a negative fund balance in the RRGL account of $785,000 was expected to still 
remain by January 1999. 

Because of the funding shortfall in RIT accounts and other long standing concerns over the use of RIT funds, Mr. 
Tubbs anticipates several bills seeking to amend the allocation of these funds. The DNRC does not believe that the 
Renewable Resource Grants will be impacted by new legislation; but in a legislative session anything can happen. 
The DNRC is leading an effort to develop legislation that would shift agency expenditures out of RIT accounts and 
increase allocations to grants and other programs. The intent of the DNRC proposal is to replace agency 
appropriations, which grow over time, with fixed allocations that can be maintained by this funding source. If 
successful, there will be increased revenues for grant programs, the orphan share program and other programs. Of 
interest to the EQC, the department is working with the Montana Bureau of Mines and Geology to establish a fixed 
allocation of RIT interest to provide full funding for the Ground Water Assessment Program for the first time since 
its creation. 



Mr. Tubbs' requests of the Council included: 

1. Feedback. Mr. Tubbs requests input from the EQC regarding the 62 applicants. Any recommendations 

from the Council for projects they believe have strong benefits, especially those which relate to the State 
Water Plan, are helpful. 

1. Support for grant programs. RIT revenues represent only a small part of all state revenues, but RIT 

provides a critical funding source for natural resource efforts. The EQC has supported many different 
grants over the years that have provided funding to successful local and state efforts that protect and 
enhance Montana's natural resources. The DNRC hopes for continued support for these grant programs as 
the 1999 Legislative Session approaches. 



Council Analysis and Comment ~ RRGL Program 

Topics discussed by EQC following this presentation included: 

1. One Council member asked if criteria were used to consider whether the project had a land use planning 
element. Mr. Tubbs responded that a planning element was included in project management points. 
Evaluators look at the alternative analyses to see if the applicants have considered the bigger picture. 

This same member asked whether the Growth Subcommittee could request that additional criteria, such as 
annexation possibilities, be incorporated into the point system. Mr. Tubbs stated that although it would be 
too late for this evaluation period, this issue could be brought to the table during the legislative process. 
The statute could be modified to specifically require that type of criteria. He suggested that the Growth 
Subcommittee and the Long Range Planning Committee look into this idea. 

2. A Council member stated that most of the grant and loan applications have gone toward existing 
infrastructure. Many small towns around the state do not have subdivisions in their areas and are struggling 
to provide infrastructure. Mr. Tubbs responded that the infrastructure projects need to have a strong 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 35 



connection to managing, protecting and improving water resources to score high on the evaluation. The 
communities which do well in the Resource Development Bureau's program are the ones that are installing 
water meters, lining lagoons, and protecting water quality. 

3. One Council member asked if there was a $100,000 maximum for grants. Mr. Tubbs explained that there is 
no statutory maximum for a grant. As program policy, the Resource Development Bureau has 
recommended a $100,000 maximum for each project. Those projects requesting more funds need to go 
before the Long Range Planning Committee and justify why they should be funded more grant dollars than 
recommended. 

4. A Council member remarked that the Municipal Waste Water Treatment System in Dillon has applied 
several times to the Long Range Planning Committee for funding assistance. They feel their problem is that 
their water and sewer rates are low and that these lower rates cause them to lose points in the application 
review process. Mr. Tubbs remarked that while they do conduct an affordability analysis, they do not 
penalize a community for low rates. 

5. A Council member asked how many of the 62 applications were repeats— projects which did not get funded 
during the last session. Mr. Tubbs remarked that the number is likely small due to the length of time 
between submitting an application and receiving state funds. 



Council Recommendations 

None. 

WATER-RELATED RESEARCH 

Section 85-2-105(3), MCA, requires EQC to: 

(c) analyze and comment on water-related research undertaken by any state agency, institution, college, or 
university. 

The Council fulfilled this role in the following ways: 

• EQC staff attended and provided a presentation at the 1997 annual meeting of the Montana Chapter of the 
American Water Resources Association (AWRA) (gathering of water-related researchers) in Butte. 

• EQC staff made calls to agencies involved in water-related research, seeking their insight regarding the 
status of water research. Responses included recommendations for additional TMDL-related research and 
concern over the reduction in U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) monitoring stations. 

• The EQC requested and commented on presentations from two prominent water-related university research 
programs— the Montana University System Water Center, and the Ground Water Assessment Program at 
Montana Tech. 

• An EQC staff representative is a member of the Ground Water Assessment Steering Committee and has 
provided some analysis and comment on that research program at Steering Committee meetings. 

• At the direction of the Council, EQC staff have provided follow-up regarding issues raised from the above 
activities, or requests made during the presentations. 



Page 36 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



The two programs that were invited to present updates are described below. 



Program 1: Montana University System Water Center 

Background . As a result of two studies evaluating water research— one in 1988, and the other in 1990— the 
Legislature's Water Policy Committee (WPC) recommended that the University System restructure the Water 
Center to provide better services in water research and education and to improve communication with water users. 
The WPC closely followed Montana State University's restructuring of the Water Resources Center during the 
1993-94 Interim. Following this restructuring, Dorothy Bradley, the new director, presented her plans for the 
Center to the WPC. She said that a useful Water Center would be one that provides a valuable interface between 
academic and other elements of society. 

Presently, the Water Center's goals are threefold: 1) to provide useful service, research and information to all 
sectors in the state, 2) to develop problem-solving partnerships with the university system, government, and private 
sector, and 3) to serve as a switchboard for Montana water information. 

Dorothy Bradley provided a progress report and perspective on the state of Montana water research at the May 
1998 EQC meeting. She reported that when Congress set up 54 water centers at land grant institutions in 1964, each 
institute was given a small federal grant to pursue state-specific research and education programs. For the past three 
years, the funds were allocated among four regions, thus diminishing funding for Montana-specific research. 
However, recent congressional action indicates that state funding will be resumed, in which case the Center expects 
to receive $80,000 for Montana water research. 

The Water Center has met all of the objectives outlined in its 1989-92 Summary of Recommendations (see 
Appendix, p. A-5). Ms. Bradley believes this indicates that the university system has demonstrated its own 
"commitment to important state issues" as outlined in the Water Policy Committee's 1990 restructuring 
recommendations. Other accomplishments include establishment of the Whirling Disease Initiative, the Drinking 
Water Assistance Program, the Septic Suitability Study for the Gallatin Local Water Quality District, and the 
MONTANA WATER web page, all outlined in brochures which were distributed at the meeting. Ms. Bradley 
provided a summary sheet explaining three Montana research projects funded through the Water Center Regional 
Competitive Grant Program. The programs offered by the Water Center— particularly MONTANA WATER— axe 

regularly used by government, university, and private parties. Information gathered and produced by the Center is 
also shared at a variety of meetings including AWRA, Rural Water, and the Watershed Coordinating Council. 

Two challenges face the Water Center in advancing Montana-oriented water research. The first is finding support 
when there is no state appropriation for that purpose. Furthermore, the University faculty compete for private and 
national grants. Most require a state match and those dollars are difficult to secure as well. A second challenge is 
coordinating with the various entities who are involved in water research and outreach, so as to correlate projects, 
share information, and avoid duplication. These entities include the USGS, U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. 
Bureau of Land Management, and state government. 

Ms. Bradley suggested ways the EQC could assist in advancing water research: 

1. Setting priorities. Much of the current research is reactive and often involves people scrambling for 
money when a problem arises. If the Council prioritizes where research most deserves to be focused, 
investigators will follow that direction and have an additional advantage in finding support for that focus. 

2. Advocacy. Former EQCs (and the former Water Policy Committee) indicated they would support state 
funding for the Water Center if the university system took the first initiative. Ms. Bradley feels MSU has 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 37 



done exactly that. The Water Center is well equipped to manage an expanded water research program, but 
would stand little chance of securing state funding without the EQC acting as an advocate. 

3. Fostering Partnerships. There are attractive possibilities for expanding partnerships with the university 

system and the EQC. With help from the EQC, its staff and state government, university students and 
Water Center staff have written materials and constructed web presentations on topics including water 
rights and quality, TMDLs, 1-122, whirling disease and mixing zones. 

Ms. Bradley concluded her report stating that there is extraordinary capability and infrastructure within the 
university system to do state -oriented research. TMDLs and source water delineation are two subjects where these 
resources are available. University teams, student labor, and private sector mentorships are untapped resources 
waiting to be coordinated. Ms. Bradley feels these resources are underutilized due to lack of state funds. 

Council Analysis and Comment -- Montana Water Center 

Topics raised by the EQC following this presentation included: 

1. A Council member asked about the ability to quantify and identify the kinds of people utilizing the Water 
Center, and how these resources fulfilled their needs. Ms. Bradley reported that the MONTANA WATER 
web page tracks "hits", and identifies state of origin, as well as whether the user is from education (edu), 
government (gov), etc. The EQC member stated that it would be helpful to the Council to know what type 
of users seek this information, and how this information is used, if advocating for the Center. After the 
meeting, Ms. Bradley forwarded to the EQC a report of use of the web page, including; most popular 
pages, most downloaded files, weekday vs. weekend use, queries by location (state and city), etc. This 
information is on file at the EQC office. 

2. A Council member asked whether the septic suitability study in Gallatin County was modeled after other 
studies and whether it was being used elsewhere in the state. Ms. Bradley explained that Kalispell, the 
Bitterroot area, and Madison County have expressed interest in the results, and the possible transfer of the 
approach. Another project, which involves assembling detailed, local natural resources data in a common 
database to track septic problems, is the brainchild of Professor Steve Custer and Water Center and Gallatin 
County staff. 

3. A Council member asked whether the MONTANA WATER web site contains drought information. Ms. 
Bradley responded that the web does not address drought issues, and due to the shortage of funds, MSU 
eliminated its climatologist position several years ago. Volunteers have been continuing the data set, but a 
coordinated information base on droughts is not available at this time. Soil moisture content is a particular 
component that has been discontinued. 

Mr. Jim Stimson, coordinator of the Montana Water Information System (MWIS), added that the MWIS is 
one of the partners in the drought monitoring program with the DNRC. They maintain a page on the web 
which addresses drought issues and is very user friendly. A precipitation index replacement for the Palmer 
Drought Severity Index Maps continues to be the missing piece of information in this program. 

4. Ms. Bradley requested more directives from the EQC. Co-Chair Mesaros stated that this would be taken 
under consideration. 

After the May EQC meeting, EQC staff (acting upon the Co-Chair's commitment to consider additional guidance 
for the Water Center) coordinated a meeting between EQC staff, Ms. Bradley, Mr. Stimson, and two University 
faculty members. The group discussed ways to facilitate the requested Council direction to the Center. One 
suggestion was to try to determine in a more focussed manner the water research status and needs of the state and to 
communicate that to the Council in the event they wished to make recommendations to the Center or otherwise 
address Ms. Bradley's requests. 



Page 38 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



In response to these discussions, Ms. Bradley circulated an e-mail questionnaire to over 100 Montana university 
system water faculty on the Center's network, seeking to address the state of water research in Montana. The 
questionnaire asked the following three questions: 

I. What are your three top candidates deserving university water research? 

II. What are your current areas of water research? 

III. What are your primary sources of research funding? 

A list of potential topic areas was generated from the responses to the e-mail (see Appendix, p. A-10). Two 
observations made by Ms. Bradley from the results of this inquiry are 1) minimal financial support has come 
directly from Montana supporting water research, and 2) there is substantial agreement regarding priority research 
needs. 



Program 2: The Ground Water Assessment Program 

Background . The Montana Ground Water Assessment Act, section 85-2-901 et seq., MCA, systematically 
funds efforts to evaluate Montana's ground water resource. Its major purposes are: 

to improve the quality of ground water management, protection, and development decisions within the 
public and private sectors by establishing a program to systematically assess and monitor the state's 
ground water and to disseminate the information to interested persons; and 

to improve coordination of ground water management, protection, development, and research functions 
among units of state, federal, and local government by establishing a ground water assessment steering 
committee. 

Since the 1994-1995 Biennium, the Assessment Act was has been funded by diverting 14.1% of proceeds from the 
$666,000 per year generated by the Resource Indemnity and Ground Water Assessment Tax (RIGWAT), formerly 
the Resource Indemnity Trust (RIT) tax. However, the Ground Water Assessment Act programs experienced a 
serious funding short-fall in FY 1994 due to lower than expected revenues to the RIGWAT and an error within the 
Metalliferous Mines Tax law. 

As a result, the programs received $262,000 less than expected, causing personnel layoffs and a total stoppage of 
field work. The steering committee chair and the Montana Bureau of Mines and Geology staff made a series of 
detailed presentations to the Water Policy Committee, EQC, Revenue Oversight Committee, and Legislative 
Finance Committee. These efforts resulted in the Governor signing a grant agreement to ensure the Assessment Act 
programs would receive full funding for FY 1995, and to eliminate the deficit from FY 1994. In the following 
legislative session, the Legislature passed SB 46 correcting the error in the Metalliferous Mine Tax law. However, 
the Legislature did not modify the 14.1% basis or the funding cap of $666,000 used in determining the amount of 
money the programs were to receive annually. 

Mr. Tom Patton, program leader for the Montana Ground Water Assessment Program, and Jim Stimson, Chairman 
of the Ground Water Assessment Steering Committee, presented a status report to the EQC at the May 8, 1998 
Council meeting (see Appendix, p. A-13). The Ground Water Assessment Program consists of the Ground Water 
Monitoring and Ground Water Characterization efforts under which about 720 water wells are measured quarterly 
and aquifer characterizations are on-going in the Lower Yellowstone River Area, Flathead Lake Area, and the 
Middle Yellowstone River Area. Work has just begun in the Lolo-Bitterroot Area and work in the Upper Clark 
Fork Area will begin within the next two years. The Ground Water Assessment Program also includes the Ground 
Water Information Center (GWIC) databases which store ground water information contained on drillers' logs and 
that are collected by the Monitoring and Characterization programs. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 39 



Staff at the Ground Water Information Center (GWIC) make information readily available by updating records in 
databases on a daily bases. They also respond to approximately 140 to 150 calls for information each month. The 
GWIC has information for almost 155,00 wells; water level measurements from about 5,500 wells; and high-quality 
site-visit data for about 3,500 wells. 

Since July 1996, 1,280 customers have made a total of about 3,000 calls to the GWIC for information. Persons 
served include the general public, water well drillers, industrial/commercial clients, engineering/technical firms, 
and government regulators and scientists. Information supplied by the data base is most often used to determine 
drilling depths, conduct ground water research, and address issues surrounding subdivision of land. 

The greatest challenge for the Ground Water Assessment Program is to effectively plan for income that arrives 
more than 10 months after the Steering Committee sets a budget. Program income is based on percentages of 
RIGWAT and Metalliferous Mines Tax receipts which are collected each year between March and May. Because 
the tax receipts fluctuate with the economic conditions for those commodities, the program has not received full 
funding since FY 1995. In June 1997, for example, the Steering Committee set the program budget to be $495,000 
based on information available from the previous legislative session, and previous performance of the tax. In FY 
1998, economic conditions in the oil and gas and metalliferous mines industries were such that the program had 
received only $396,000 by June 30th. The shortfall of almost $100,000 prevented collection of water-level 
measurements and delayed the start of field work in the Lolo-Bitterroot study area. Two program employees were 
asked to work for other Montana Bureau of Mines projects not related to the Assessment Program, effectively 
cutting the Ground Water Assessment Program by about 2.0 FTE in the final quarter of the year. 

Chronic shortfalls in income occurred each spring for FYs 1996, 1997, and 1998. The annual work slowdown each 
year, enacted so that expenditures could remain below the amount of money received, severely handicapped 
progress in the program. 

Mr. Patton's request of the EQC on behalf of the Ground Water Assessment Program was: 

1 . Stable funding. It would be helpful if the Council would support a constant and stable source of funding 

for the Ground Water Assessment Program should legislation be proposed to restructure the way programs 
are funded by the Resource Indemnity Trust Tax. Full stable funding for the Ground Water Assessment 
Program would include up to $666,000 annually (dependent on unobligated cash carryover between fiscal 
years and the funding cap already in statute). 



Council Analysis and Comment -- Ground Water Assessment Program 

Topics discussed by EQC following this presentation included: 

1. The Council discussed with Mr. Patton the difference between statewide well information and the areas of 
more intensive Characterization Study. Mr. Patton explained that each well in the Characterization Study 
area was usually visited only once. Wells in the statewide monitoring network were visited quarterly to 
obtain time-dependent water-level data. Mr. Patton noted that the designation of the three main study areas 
was the result of the Ground Water Assessment Steering Committee's priorities developed pursuant to the 
Montana Ground Water Assessment Act. 

2. A Council member raised the question regarding coordination between the GWIC and other institutions. 
Mr. Patton remarked that the GWIC routinely sends data to various groups and that coordination is a 
Steering Committee issue addressed at each meeting. 



Page 40 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



Council Recommendations 

Consistent with the EQC's statutory requirements, the Subcommittee recommends ongoing evaluation of 
whether water research funding and study topics adequately represent Montana's needs for information 
related to its water resources. This should involve continued EQC staff and Council member coordination 
and communication with the Montana State University system Water Center and continued staff 
participation in the Ground Water Assessment Steering Committee and in professional water association 
annual gatherings, to assist in this evaluation. Where appropriate, reasonable monitoring in key watersheds 
should be encouraged. 



WATER DATA MANAGEMENT 

Section 85-2-105(3), MCA, requires the EQC to: 

(d) analyze, verify, and comment on the adequacy of and information contained in the water resources data 
management system maintained by the department [DNRC] under 90-15-305 ... 

Subsection 90-15-305(2), MCA, describes the functions of the water information system: 

The Montana water information system shall make available and readily accessible, in a usable format, to 
state agencies and other interested persons, information on the state's water resources, out-of-state water 
resources that affect the state, existing and potential uses, and the existing and potential demand. 

Background 

As Montana's water issues continue to be a source of controversy, reliable and accessible information becomes ever 
more important. Effective and efficient water data management, including the gathering, storing, and dissemination 
of water data, is necessary for a valid long term water policy that ultimately serves all Montanans. 

In 1986, the Montana Water Information System (MWIS) was created and fully integrated into the Natural 
Resources Information System (NRIS). The former Water Policy Committee played a major role in the creation of 
the MWIS. That same year, DNRC delegated its responsibility to "establish and maintain a centralized and efficient 
water resources data management system" to the MWIS. 

The MWIS provides a central contact point for locating and obtaining all types of water data. Statutory authority 
for the MWIS was transferred from DNRC to NRIS in 1997. The MWIS can be accessed through the State of 
Montana home page, "mt.gov", or directly at "nris.mt.gov/wis/wisl.html" 

Mr. Jim Stimson, Coordinator of the MWIS at the Montana State Library presented an update at the September 
1997 EQC meeting (see Appendix, p. A-17). He restated that the MWIS was created to address the need for 
accessible and usable information on Montana's natural resources. Use of the Internet has greatiy aided the ability 
to provide this information. Information requests have increased accordingly, from 500 staff mediated requests 
issued annually by phone or mail a few years ago, to 5,000 requests made by users who accessed information 
through the web pages in July of 1997. A recent survey distributed to MWIS users indicates a high demand for 
information on wetlands, surface water quantity and quality, ground water quality, and geology related to ground 
water studies. 

Several goals were set for the 1997-1998 biennium. In response to the results of the user survey, additional 
information was uploaded to the Internet focusing on wetlands, surface water quantity and quality, and ground 
water and related geologic data. This information was improved by redesigning web pages to retrieve desired topics 
more directly through highlight options and button features. Water supply and drought monitoring issues were also 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 41 



addressed by working with the DNRC to access information from the National Weather Service from which a map 
could be generated. Mr. Stimson has continued to coordinate with several committees, increasing data sharing and 
reducing duplication of effort among such groups as the Watershed Coordination Council, Wetlands Coordination 
Council, Volunteer Water Monitoring Advisory Group, and Drought Monitoring Committee. 

MWIS staff are continuing their efforts to enhance the content and accessibility of the system by: 

1. Improving water supply/drought monitoring capabilities by providing maps monitoring precipitation and 
soil moisture conditions statewide with the continued assistance of DNRC and the National Weather 
Service. 

2. Supporting development of base-level information on Montana's wetlands by revitalizing efforts to 
complete the National Wetland Inventory for Montana and creating a wetland clearinghouse web page to 
notify users that this information is available. 

3. Developing easy-to-use GIS applications to support and improve management of water-related information. 
This includes providing the capability for Internet users to develop and print out their own maps using GIS 
information, and the possibility for Intranet use of information within an agency. Currently this software 
exists on a six-month trial basis. 



Challenges and Issues facing the Water Information System include: 

1. Replacing the Palmer Drought Severity Index maps. Improved data availability and funding to calculate the 
replacement index locally are needed. Water information staff will continue to work with the DNRC and 
other cooperators on this issue. 

2. A mobile computer lab is needed to support training of state agency personnel and citizen groups on the use 
of geographic information systems, databases, and the Internet for water-related applications like 

volunteer water monitoring, watershed management, and TMDL education and outreach. NRIS is exploring 
grant and contract opportunities to help meet this need. 

Council members were invited to visit the NRIS site at the library. 



Council Analysis and Comment -- Water Data Management 

A Council member questioned how many potential users would have the necessary software to be able to use the 
information. Mr. Stimson explained that the only software needed was a web browser or Microsoft Explorer 
capable of reading Java script. Should the individual requesting information have no access to Internet software, 
Montana Water Information System could pull the data up and send a hard copy to the individual. 



Council Recommendations 

The Subcommittee endorses the current efforts by staff of the Montana Water Information System program 
to replace the Palmer Drought Severity Index maps and to develop a mobile computer lab to support local 
training on the use of computer tools to access and use water-related information (i.e. GIS, databases, and 
the Internet). 



Page 42 EQC 1998 Water Policy Report 



yW\ yAAA 



5. WATER-RELATED COMPONENTS OF FULL-COUNCIL ACTIVITIES 



yAAA yW\ 



There are other EQC efforts in the 1997-98 Interim that the reader of this report may be interested in. 
These are described below. 



FWP INSTREAM FLOW LEASING REPORT 

The EQC is required to "complete" the final study report for the Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks' 
water leasing study. Since this is a separate, and narrow, water-related topic (with proposed legislation) it 
has been produced as a separate report. This report will undergo a three- week public review during 
September and October, 1998. Persons wishing copies may contact the EQC office (444-3742). 



HB 546 IMPLEMENTATION OVERSIGHT 

The Water Policy Subcommittee made a priority of oversight of the implementation of HB 546 (the 
TMDL bill), passed in the 1997 Session. This oversight effort and related conclusions and 
recommendations are described in a separate HB 546 Oversight Report. Persons wishing copies may 
contact the EQC office (444-3742). 



GROWTH ISSUES 

The EQC also made a priority of looking into issues and policies related to growth, planning, and land use 
in Montana and created a separate Growth Subcommittee to carry out this inquiry over the 1997-98 
Interim. Many topics in this (and other Water Policy Subcommittee reports) overlap with topics related to 
growth planning and development. The two Subcommittees have coordinated on such issues. 

Persons interested in an update on the deliberations of the Growth Subcommittee may contact EQC staff 
at 444-3742 for further information. 



EQC 1998 Water Policy Report Page 43 



Electronic copies of the appendices for this report are not available. For paper 

copies, please contact the EQC Office. 



