AFU Newsletter 

issue 39 — September 1995 


Small triangular object 
with a jet-like sound 

by Steve Sandstrom 

One of the nicest summer pleasures for many of 
us Swedes is to sit idly by one of our thousands of 
lakes, holding a fishing-rod. Few moments are as 
peaceful as these moments. Often, it is not catching 
one or two fishes that holds our attention, but the 
very mystery of the surrounding nature. Sometimes, 
however, unknown forces can interact with the most 
idyllic hour. This is what happened to Martell 
Astrom last summer, in June 1994. 

It was a very fine summer's day when Martell 
decided to go out in the boat that he has by a 
small lake not far from Floda, where he lives. Floda 
is a small village about 60 kilometers SW of the 
north-Swedish town Skellefteci. 

There was not a cloud in the sky. Martell took 
his boat to his favorite fishing area and sat there 
idly for a long while. The only sound was the waves 
lapping against the sides of his boat. Suddenly he 
heard another sound, a sound foreign to the area. 

At low altitude, maybe about 50 metres, and 
almost in zenith, there suddenly came an unknown 
flying object. It looked like an arrow-head and was 
black in colour. Martell could clearly see that the 
object wasn't very big, he estimated it to be about 
two meters long. 



First Martell thought it was an ordinary jet fighter. 
The sound reminded him of such a plane. He is 
completely convinced, however, that it was no such 
plane. His view of it, against the clear summer sky, 
was too good for such a mistake. 

The unidentified object disappeared towards the 
other shore of the lake. It was then at such a low 
altitude that it seemed to pass between the trees. 
This was probably a misunderstanding since the 
object was by then only a small black spot on the 
horizon. There are no other witnesses to the 
incident but I see no reason to doubt the sincerity 


of the observer. 

The most difficult task is to try to judge whether 
there is a risk that Martell Astrom did in fact see an 
ordinary jet, maybe a Viggen air force fighter, but 
was somehow mistaken in the strong sun-light. 

Probably not so. Even though there is still a 
chance for such a mistake at a certain angle, 

Martell could follow this object for quite a distance 
and he saw it quite distinctly. We can never be 
completely sure, especially since Martell does not 
remember the date of the incident, therefore it is 
impossible to verify if something military was in the 
neighbourhood. 

It is up to each one of us to judge: did Martell 
see an airplane or not? I do not personally think so 
because of his dead certain description of the 
object's appearance. 

Readers of the AFU Newsletter may recognize 
details from another case, published in issue nr 37 
("Miniature stealth-like plane over Lake Vattern"). 
This incident occurred at Brandstorp, close to 
another Swedish lake. Five witnesses reported a 
small, delta-shaped object flying at high speed out 
over the water. The Defence Staff proposed that the 
witnesses had seen a radio-controlled model 
aircraft. Anyone acquainted with model aircraft 
builders, however, know they are not very keen on 
flying their treasures over rough terrain or waters. 

Small objects have been spotted many times in 
our area in the last years. We cannot turn away 
from them. I have a feeling that many answers to 
the UFO mystery depend on the way we treat and 
analyze this very special category of cases. 

Note: Steve Sandstrom is the chairman of a new UFO- 
Sweden group, UFO-Skelleftei, whose investigations 
cover most of the vast northern territories. Steve is editor 
of their excellently desktopped magazine "UFO-Norr" (in 
Swedish only). Steve may be contacted by writing to: 
UFO-Skelleftei, Uppfinnarvagen 4, S-931 45 Skelleftei, 
Sweden. The illustration is by the group's staff artist, 
“Tecknar-Olle". 

The light that 
stopped a car 

by Clas Svahn & Jorgen Granlie 

It was shortly before 23.00 on February 15, 1994. 
Kerstin Heilman had finished her work at the 
Fagerudd conference center to the south of 
Enkoping (80 km NW of Stockholm). It was a clear 
and calm winter night and 12 degrees below zero 
on the centigrade scale. Kerstin started her Volvo 
245 to drive 20 kilometres to her home at Grillby. 

As always she took the small road over Boglosa 
and Villberga instead of the El8 highway. The 






































2 


moon had just passed below the horizon but the 
snowcover still made the road bright and easy to 
observe. 

- I was going at about 60-70 kilometres because 
the road was rather slippery. As I was a few 
kilometres from home there was a sudden 
brightness and I looked up. Over a group of trees 
on my right side I saw a very oblong light that had 
"spikes" on the upper part. Just as I spotted this 
light the car started to act irregularly. I looked at the 
dashboard and noted that the car lights grew 
weaker and the speedometer went down. When I 
looked up on the road again - I had to bend 
forwards - the light took off and it just disappeared. 
The light was yellow, almost like from a candle 
light. Very yellow. The car continued some 100-200 
metres while the lights grew dimmer and dimmer 
and finally it stopped. It was completely dead. 

Kerstin Hallman managed to roll the car to the 
side of the road and waited for help. A few minutes 
later a milk-lorry came by. The driver stopped to 
help her, but he did not succeed in starting her car. 
Instead, he called Kersins husband on the phone 
and asked him to come and help her. 

- As my husband sat down at the wheel and 
turned the ignition key it started with no trouble at 
all. He managed at the very first attempt. 

Her husband tells us he was very surprised 
when the compartment light lit up as he opened the 
door and yet more surprised when the car started 
so easily. 

- But next day it was completely dead. I took the 
battery out and had it checked and loaded at a 
service station. It was faultless. 

A few days after the incident UFO-Sweden paid 
for a new check-up of Kerstin Hallman's car, 
especially with a view of finding out if there was 
something wrong with the electric system. No faults 
were found. The car, a 1983 model, has a 
conventional ignition and carburettor system 
without sensitive electronic equipment. Ice 
formation in the carburettor could result in engine 
failure in this type of car but after a few minutes it 
would usually start up again. Such a failure would 
not have any influence on the lighting, however. 

Another possibility would be that the ignition 
voltage from the generator was somehow disrupted. 
Such a failure would not, however, have any large 
influence on the car's operation in the short 
distance it was the question of in this case. 

UFO-Sweden has also tried to find an 
explanation for the light Kerstin Hallman saw. A 
number of possible airports and helicopter owners 
were checked but none had any activity. 

- I sometimes ponder over what it was that I saw 
but I just don't know, says Kerstin Hallman. It 
resembled an oblong football with spires turned 
upwards, fantastically bright. More I wouldn't know. 

- Are you convinced that there was a connection 
between the light and the car failure? 

- I can't imagine anything else. It has never 
happened neither before nor since that the car has 
stopped in this way. There must have been a 


connection. 

Steve Sandstrom, chairman of UFO-Skellefteci, 
and a member of one of UFO-Sweden's 
assessment groups, cautions us to be careful in our 
judgement. He remembers a similar incident, 
without any light phenomenon, that he experienced 
while driving a Volvo Amazon car. 

"Suddenly the car started to go heavy, the 
engine seemed tortured and the car's lighting 
(even the lights inside) started to glow a pale 
yellow. It was as if someone had connected a two- 
ton trailer to the back of the car. Then suddenly the 
phenomenon released it's grip on the car and 
everything was normal. When the interested owner 
of the Volvo Amazon finally found the fault it turned 
out to be a loose contact in the generator that 
caused a short-circuit." 

Now this explanation is far from applicable to 
this case. The battery in Kerstin Hallman's Volvo 
was OK and the car had started with no problem 
just ten minutes before the incident. A loose 
generator would have no effect on the car since 
there was power from the battery. It hasn 't been 
possible to find any reasonable explanation for the 
incident. 

Source: UFO-Aktuellt, published by UFO-Sweden, pp. 
20-21. Published from: Box 175, S-733 23 Sala, Sweden. 

Wan t to become an 
ambassador for Sirius? 

The UFO business is full of kooks and conmen. 

One of them is Anders B. Johansson, a "New Age" 
Swede who is selling ambassador titles for the 
Sirius people expected, by Johansson, to land on 
Earth before the summer of 1996. If you have 5.000 
SEK to spare you are guaranteed (?) a post as an 
ambassador for the invaders - and you will 
probably help pay for Johansson's new Macintosh 
computer and other office equipment... Johansson 
is selling New Age courses, crystal healing 
treatments and voyages to Egypt at prices that can 
only be described as steep. 

UFO-Sweden investigated Mr. Johansson's 
claims and businesses which include almost 
everything esoteric, from astrology to tarot reading. 
UFO-Sweden chairman Clas Svahn bluntly consider 
Johansson s activities as "confidence tricks". The 
negative publicity from UFO-Sweden resulted in an 
article in Stockholm's new "Metro" newspaper 
(distributed free in the subway). Reportedly, this 
forced Johansson to move his Tri Orion-Sirius 
Center to less prominent localities. 

Johansson lives in Stockholm but is registered 
as an emigrant for the United States on May 1, 

1990. This means he pays no income taxes in 
Sweden. All income is transfered to him through a 
tax-exempt foundation. 

In 1992, Anders B.Johansson invited American 
"ufologist" Wendelle Stevens to talk before Swedish 
audiences. UFO-Sweden has interviewed a woman 




I 


3 


who was hypnotically regressed by Stevens. She 
remembers the hypnosis attempt with fear: 

- Wendelle Stevens tried to force me to 
remember what had happened. It was a most 
stressful situation and I was frightened. He didn't 
appear to be a professional, says the woman who 
as a consolation got money for the taxi home. The 
woman has a written protocol of the session. 

UFO-Sweden continues the investigations of the 
activites of other new age ufologists. One of them is 
Rauni-Leena Luukanen-Kilde, a Finnish medical 
doctor travelling the world-wide new-age/ufology 
lecture circus, and writing "international bestsellers", 
promoting her crude philosophy based on the most 
popular myths in ufology. 

UFO-Sweden s 
25 year anniversary 

On September 2, 1970, the 25th anniversary of 
UFO-Sweden was celebrated at the Lersater 
training center in mid-Sweden. Three UFO-Sweden 
chairmen were present: Clas Svahn (present 
chairman), Christer Nordin and Bevan Berthelsen 
(his predecessors). Traditionally (- since 1977 -) 
UFO-Sweden holds an autumn training weekend for 
field investigators and members of UFO-Sweden s 
report assessment groups. Friday to Sunday 
ufologists from all over Sweden gather to listen to 
lectures on subjects such as misidenfications, 
witness psychology and history of religion. 

One of the prominent subjects of discussion this 
year was the Roswell autopsy film which had been 
aired on Swedish TV4 on August 27. The autopsy 
film was generally regarded with scepticism. AFU 's 
Hcikan Blomqvist reviewed the first 25 years of 
UFO-Sweden's history, noting that from the first 
years of ET belief and esoteric interests the 
organization had now matured into a well- 
established group that attempts to treat UFOs in a 
scientific manner. 

Wingless object near 
Norwegian airplane 

At 16.25 hours on July 11, 1995, a Dash-8 
passenger plane from the Wideroe company was 
on route from Fornebu (Oslo) to Bronnoysund when 
something very strange happened over Steinkjer 
about 70 kilometres N of Trondheim. The co-pilot 
caught sight of a flying object that moved to the 
right of the plane. From his left side of the cockpit 
the captain only saw a part of what happened: 

- First we thought it was another plane but as I 
bent down to get a better view, I noticed it had 
neither wings nor tail-fins, says captain Erik P. 

Risan. It was fine weather and good visibility. 

His (anonymous) co-pilot, on the right side of the 
cockpit, got a better view of the object but does not 
want to elaborate on the incident: 


-1 have already told the facts to the radar station 
in Trondheim. If I wanted this story in the media I 
would have said so, he stated. 

The Wideroe plane was flying at 15.000 feet. The 
unknown object slowed down and disappeared. In 
about a minute it was all over. The crew informed 
the Vaernes tower that something was in the air. 
Sometimes a weather balloon goes astray, but the 
captain does not want to speculate if this might be 
the explanation in this case. The military radar at 
Gr&kallen near Trondheim had coverage of the area 
but caught no return from the unknown object. 
There were no military planes in the area. The 
object was considered unidentified by the military 
forces. 

11 year old Roy Arne Hallem witnessed the 
incident from the porch of his home at Inndalen. 

The boy told his parents on Tuesday evening 
before the incident was published the next day. 

- The object was polished and almost as large 
as the airplane. I saw it for maybe a minute before 
it disappeared straight up at great speed, he said. 
Three hours later a similar silvery, polished object 
was spotted by 75 year old Bjarne Lein. 

Sources: Verdens Gang (Oslo newspaper), July 13 and 
14, 1995; Stig Aggestad (UFO-Sweden). 

More Scandinavian cases... 

If you are interested in Scandinavian UFO cases 
you should subscribe to Trans-UFO a newsletter 
published by Eileen Fletcher, Derwent Cottage, 
Derwent Dam, Bamford, Sheffield S30 2AQ, UK. 


AFU Newsletter 

ISSN 0283-6378 

AFU Newsletter is published quarterly by Archives 
for UFO Research (AFU), P.O.Box 11027, S-600 
11 Norrkoping, Sweden. AFU was founded in 1973 
and the newsletter started in 1975. Copyright is 
not claimed unless explicitly stated. Reproduction 
is encouraged ^if "AFU Newsletter" is referenced as 
your source. 

AFU is a non-profit, private foundation whose aims 
are to build a Swedish/international UFO library 
and research archive; to support and encourage 
serious research; and to stimulate a critical, 
scientific discussion on unidentified flying objects. 

Editor: Anders Liljegren 

Swedish/Scandinavian membership: 120 SEK per 
year. Payable to Stockholm postal giro number 
49 07 14-3. 

AFU Newsletter is mainly an exchange publication. 
International parties interested in sponsorship of 
the AFU foundation or a subscription, please write 
for details. 




AFU Sponsornytt sept 1995 


Donationer frin Brage Janssons familj: 

Stockholmsufologen Brage Jansson (en ging 
medlem i Ifologiska Sallskapet) ar svirt sjuk 
och hans familj tommer kallarforriden. Clas 
har vid flera tillfallen haft mojlighet att gi 
igenom samlingarna. Resultatet: ett par billas- 
ter bocker, tidskrifter, band och annat. En 
knapp halvmeter overskottslitteratur finns 
ocksi till forsaljning - dock inte si mycket att 
det just nu motiverar en ny antikvarialista! 

Nyfdrvarv: Willy Wegner (Horsens, Danmark) 
ar i slutfasen pi en stor internationell UFO- 
bibliografi och har donerat ett manuskript som 
nu finns i tvi parmar hos AFU. Frin USA har 
undertecknad kopt ett ex. av ",Alien Discus¬ 
sions", boken om MIT-konferensen 1992, som 
si sminingom hamnar i AFU:s hylla. Richard 
Haynes och forlaget Wild Flower Press har 
bida skickatAFU smi kartonger gratisbocker. 
Tyvarr kommer mycket att inte vara till utlin di 
vi bara har ett enda exemplar. 

Rapportarkivet: Frin UFO-Sundsvall kom en 
"efterslang" av rapportmaterial frin 70-talet 
som vi nu "smalt in" i rapportarkivet. Proces- 
sen att ta hand om "gamla hogar med rappor- 
ter" ar tidsodande. Rapporterna behandlas pi 
olika satt beroende pi om de forut finns i 
rapportarkivet eller ej, och om de finns i data- 
basen eller ej. 

ScanCat: Under viren/sommaren har vira 
"ALU:n“ Jessica Larsson och Ann-Britt Eriks¬ 
son kodat fall frin 1993 och forsta kvartalet 
1994 samt ett stort antal retroaktiva handelser, 
totalt drygt 400. Till detta kommer cirka 180 
observationer av spokflygare pi 1930-talet 
som Susanna Lindmark registrerat. Ann-Britt, 
Susanna och Jessica slutade alia i augusti, 
men Jessica ar si intresserad att hon fortsat- 
ter att jobba ideellt pi AFU. 

Listor ur ScanCat: I slutet av juli gjordes de 
forsta uttagen ur databasen: fern " lanslistor 11 
som bestalits av tre journalister och tvi av 
UFO-Sveriges faltundersokare. Tills vidare tar 
vi ut en liten avgift pi 100 kr for faltforskare 
och 200 kr for mer kommersiellt bruk. Regi- 
stret har annu inte den pilitligthet som kravs 
for att ta fram statistik (t.ex. over antal fall per 
ir). Under hosten agnar jag en del tid till att 
stada bort de mest uppenbara felen. 

Ubitsprojekt: Arbetscentrum i Nykoping 
beviljade den 23/8 Wolfgang Randisek ytterli- 
gare ett ALU-halvir hos oss med start 11/9. 
Wolfgang har sjalv foreslagit ett jobb med att 
systematisera och forsoka dra nigra slutsatser 
av virt ubitsarkiv. Alla u bits rap porter regi- 
streras i ScanCat och ett amnesindex laggs 


upp. Wolfgang ska forsoka se om det finns 
nigra trender i materialet och om dessa i si 
fall har nigra kopplingar till UFO-fenomenet. 
Wolfgang arbetar med projektet i Arbetscen- 
trums lokaler i Nykoping. 

UFO-Sveriges historia: Hikan Blomqvist har 
i sommar forfattat en ling och detaljerad 
historik om UFO-Sverige, som i ir fyller 25 ir. 
Artikeln publiceras i kommande nummer av 
UFO-Aktuellt. UFO-Sverige startades i samband 
med den forsta riksstamman i Motala 1970. 
Mitt klaraste minne frin den konferensen var 
Gideon Johanssons foredrag. 

Lersater: Lordagen den 2 septfirades UFO- 
Sveriges 25-irsjubileum pi Lersatersgirden i 
samband med den irliga kursen for faltutre- 
dare. Vi itersig gamla ufo-ravar som Bevan 
Berthelsen, Christer Nordin (som kanske flyttar 
till Gambia!) och folkmusikern Ake "UFO" Gus- 
tafsson frin Tranis. Frin AFU deltog Hikan 
Blomqvist, Jessica Larsson och undertecknad. 
Hikan gav i ett av sina foredrag smakprov ur 
den kommande artikeln om UFO-Sveriges 
historia. For undertecknad var det forsta ging- 
en pi Lersater. Jag var imponerad av den 
narmast akademiska kvaliten pi foredrag och 
diskussioner. Aven om vi inte lost UFO-pro- 
blemet (vilket vi inte ar ensamma om..) si har 
vi skaffat oss bra mycket battre forutsattningar. 
Roligt med alia nya, ungdomliga ansikten som 
tar vid nar vi gamlingar en dag trottnar. Som 
vanligt hade vi en serie bidrag till arkivet med 
oss hem till Norrkoping: arkivparmar, kartor, 
bocker och nigra milningarav Carl-Antons far. 

Besok: Den 14 juli hade arkivet besok en hel 
dag av Mikael Nilsson frin Strangnas, nybliven 
faltutredare darstades. Den 5 aug forde vi 
diskussioner pi arkivet med stockholmsfore- 
taget Idefilm om en planerad CD-ROM-pro- 
duktion. Den 24 aug hade vi besok av tre UFO- 
intresserade som arbetar pi Invandrarverket 
har i Norrkoping. Den 5 sept kom Jenny Arnes- 
son, gymnasist som skriver ett specialarbete. 

Massmedia: Roswellfilmen pi TV4 den 27/8 
vackte pi nytt massmedia ur Tornrosasomnen. 
Hikan berattade om arkivet pi TV-Ost den 
28/8 och dagen darpi i Radio Ostergotland. 

Planeringskonferens pi AFU: Ytterligare en 
planeringskonferens med UFO-Sverige hills pi 
Ljuraknuten/arkivet den 11 november i ir. Om 
du inte sett arkivet tidigare ar det val hog tid att 
komma hit, eller hur?l Du ar valkommen! 

Anders Liljegren 



