2 1 










No.27 


January 1993 


TONY'S STONEHENGE RESEARCH 


JC Cmhrkf C*t 


t—£- 


* m M 


—..— ... 


STONCNCNCe . 

n . 4 . *. 

* »* a ^ 


%/hfCr/ty Mtt* 9 • 

S. : 


M 

t 


^2 



%Crwmky Ustft' 


£r Ac4j 


.#C“*—. 


This diagram is the result of Tony Wedd's research into the Stonehenge megalithic site, 
which he believed to be based on the seven-point star, or amskaya, which a thought 
communication message had told him was the symbol of the High Tribunal of the Solar 
Confederation, and a form which is usable in free energy machines. (He had it that form 
is critical in components of these machines, unlike electrical machines). 

The thought was triggered by the fact that there are 56 Aubrey Holes, a number divisible 
by seven. The outer star is based on this. Some leys centering on Stonehenge are also 
shown. 


2 


SKYWAYS AND LANDMARKS 


by Tony Wedd 


Part 3 

There’s an Ordnance Survey trianguladon point on the comer of Mark Beech - the old 
and the new side by side, lien we come to half a dozen Scots pines at Chippens Bank 
• an interesting clump. Here we are in the garden of this nice little farm, Chippens Bank. 
I'm told the water there is rather special, rather like the water that gave Tunbridge Wells 
its name. It’s chalybeate, and stains the rocks red. Whoever possessed this land decided 
it was a gracious and holy spot, and made a grotto among the trees. 

Again, a little clump breaking the sky line, this is the Kent Hatch group • twenty or so Scots 
pines. So we have five marks, truly in a straight line, but also, when looked at in profile, 
each one hitting the hill top. It’s too much to ask that this is coincidence. So there is your 
ley, laid out 

This was only a theory at this point, but I had three flying saucer sightings to link the two 
ideas together. I said, if it’s true that the flying saucers travel along the leys, where they 
change course you might expect to find a landmark - a cross-roads sign as Buck Nelson 
has guided us to. So when Aime Michel comes up with his 1954 flap, fully documented, 
he noticed that where the saucer reached a crossing point and changed direction, it came 
along and pausing, slipped through the air in what’s called a “falling leaf’ and then 
moved off again on its new course. 

This is significant for our research into flying saucers. It was well worth a trip to France 
tocheckuponsomeof these falling leaf sigh tings. My prediction was that where a“falling 
leaf’ had been recorded I should find a Scots pine clump. 

So I drove into the little Burgundy village of Meursanges, where a couple had seen a very 
exciting display of lights as they hurled through the sky and moved off on a different 
course. As I drove into the village late in the evening I saw three Scots pines and was very 
pleased with myself. The sighting was on that side of the village. 

Moving on into the Jura, there is documented in Aime Michel’s book a sighting at Frasne. 
I went there and was disappointed to see nothing that looked like a Scots pine at all. I 
tramped through bogs feeling very disconsolate. Then I went back to my Aime Michel 
and found the sighting wasn’t at Frasne, though he’d marked that on the map. It was at 
Dompierre, and in the valley below this I came across a clump. Thisdidn’t look like Scots 

3 








pines, but the other kind called “pinus nigra” • but all the same a very nice little tumulus- 
hump of a site. I found they had built a little shrine with a Virgin - holy ground. When 
I went into the clump I was able to count half a dozen or more of the true Scots pine. 

Two out of two - let’s see what we can do on the banks of the Rhine. Between Niffer and 
Kembs on the Rhine I drove late in the evening and was saddened not to find the landmark 
I was looking for. I went into the woods and spent the night in the back of my car. I was 
rather astonished in the morning to find myself in the midst of a pine forest! I couldn't 
find a definite mark, so I’ll give myself two and a half out of three. 

To be continued 

Listening for life 

On October 12th, NASA astronomers will initiate a grand-scale multimillion dollar 
search for extraterrestrial intelligence. Astronomy magazine for October reported. The 
project will be in two parts - the Targeted Search which will look at solar-type stars - the 
vast fixed dish in Puerto Rico will be involved in this. The other half will be a Sky Survey 
in which every square degree of the sky will be searched. The smaller dishes at Goldstone, 
California and Tidbinbilla, Australia will be part of this - it is all possible because of the 
sophisticated modern software which now exists. It will get more information in thirty 
seconds than the whole previous SETI project. Tidbinbilla was also the station which 
received the signals from Mariner 4 - and at the same time a glowing UFO was seen in 
the vicinity and local airport switchboards were jammed with calls. 

Structures on Mars? 

But NASA also seems to be searching nearer to home, Fortean Times repoprts. In 
September it launched the Mars Observer probe, equipped with a camera fifty times more 
powerful than that on the Viking probe. The independent group Mars Mission have also 
found remarkably non-natural looking structures in Cydonia, the northern desert region 
of Mars. There is a huge pyramid, and something which bears great similarity to a human 
face. Other features of the area display similar geometric proportions to Silbury Hill and \ 

Avebury, while another researcher seems to have found a representation of the planets in 
the solar system. The Face represents Mats in this system, seeming to try to tell us that 
human-type life either is or was there. NASA certainly seem to be putting a lot of effort 
into life-search at the moment 


4 


Moon mystery 

Foresight magazine reports a claim by Maurice Chatelain that Neil Armstrong saw a UFO 
on the edge of a crater on the first moon landing mission, but the report was deleted from 
the publicly transmitted words of Armstrong from the Moon. I watched part of the first 
landing transmission, which ran all night on television, and I certainly seem to remember 
hearing one of the astronauts say “What’s that?” at one point, followed by a “Shh” from 
the other. An American friend once said that he had been through the whole tape he made 
and found nothing like it Is my memory playing up or did we receive a more direct 
transmission here? 

Surrey group restarted 

The Surrey Investigation Group on Aerial Phenomena (SIGAP) has recently been 
restarted by Gordon Millington, who has contributed several articles to Amskaya, as well 
as its magazine Pegasus. It has had two meetings, at one of which I displayed pictures 
of the Albury Stone, found after Squadron-Leader Shipwright’s sighting there, and 
seemingly displaying markings similar to some of those shown by Mariner 4 on its Mars 
mission. The other was concerned with com circles, and an interesting research project 
using an oscilloscope and probes in the earth seemed to show different results from 
locations within circles and those outside them. 

“Martian” field trip 

The Surrey Earth Mysteries Group had a very interesting field trip last year, visiting 
Horsell Common, the site chosen by H. G. Wells for the landing of the Martians in War 
of the Worlds. We saw the small standing stone near there, and also other sites, including 
Chobham Church and Longcross Church. The latter is on the paw of Mary Caine’s Great 
Dog - and has a stained glass window containing dogs and paws! Lionel noticed, when 
we visited the Queen Victoria Monument described in the last issue, that it had definite 
earthworks round it rather like a tiny version of a camp or hillfort Nothing of this is 
mentioned on the map. A video of the trip, including readings from War of the Worlds 
done on the trip, is being prepared, and hopefully will have other material about Mars 
which is less fanciful but still shows indications of life. 

Interest in Free Energy 

There seems to have been an upsurge of interest in free energy lately, and called by that 
name too, though most has not been associated with extraterresials as it was in Tony 
Wedd's time. There was a talk on orgone energy at the London Earth Mysteries Circle 


5 




last year, and there is to be another in February on applications of free energy. I also went 
to a very interesting meeting of the Borderland Investigation Group at which several 
research projects currently in progress were discussed. 

OUT ON A UMB REVISITED 

Last year I was pleased to see the TV version of Out on a Limb, written by and starring Shirley 
MacLaine. I had found the book very interesting, especially the account of the trip to Peru with 
her friend David, and her finding that almost everyone in the area had seen “flying discs'*, and 
sometimes their occupants, and even took them for granted. David then revealed to her that he 
had been caitaoed by a small but beautiful extratonstrial lady called Mayan, with long dark 
hair and almond-shaped eyes, who taught him on spiritual matters. She had apparently clainxxi 
to have come from a world in the Pleiades star group. 

I was a little disturbed to leam from Shirley MacLaine's latest book. It’s All in the Playing, that 
“David” had not really existed at all, but was in fact a composite of more than one person who 
had recounted contact stories to her. At the end of the book she seems to imply that the Peru 
incident did in fact take place, however, and even suggests that there was a trip in a craft that 
was not mentioned in the original book. I will be writing to her to ask if she can clarify matters. 

It's all in the Playing is largely about the filming of the TV version of Out on a Limb, and even 
suggests that spiritual entities (through a medium) were enlisted as actors in the series, 
replaying former channelling sessions. At the end of the book are two other contact stories. One 
was by Anton Ponce de Leon, who it transpired had met the same entity that “David” had met, 
and who used the same name. In this part of the book David is written about as a real character, 
and it is here that the space ride is mentioned. She writes “I ha. J not included David’s space 
ride in my book because my editors said no-one would believe it”. It is all rather confusing. 

The other is even more interesting. It concerned a Yugoslav, Vitko Novi, who had met tall 
extraterrestrials who could levitate by touching something on their suits, and materialise a fire 
to warm him on the cold night. He was also invited into their aaft, where there were “fat sofas” 
to sit on, and he was shown scenes from his life and thoughts on surrounding screens. He said 
it was like “anotional 3-D”. At the time he thought they were sophisticated communists so 
went to the police, who said he was crazy and should seek psychiatric help. There were many 
other contacts to follow, and the beings spoke to him of philosophical matters and reincarnation. 
He claimed to have been shown the building of the original city or Cuzco, as well as a preview 
of the destruction of a town he was food of, which was to happoi ten years later. 

Shirley MacLaine is a compelling writer who writes of extraordinary events in a very credible 
style. It is also pleasant to know that there are still claims of contact with extraterrestrials who 
are not either hostile or uncaring. 


6 


A VISIT TO TONY WEDD COUNTRY 


Some pictures digitised from the video A Visit to Tony Wedd Country, 
available free to anyone who sends me a blank tape and return postage. 



Eileen Grimshaw by the stone above 
the "Mithraic Temple" cave 



Apologies for the non-appearanceof the October issue - this was due 
largely to my daughter's wedding which did not leave me much 
spare time! Subscribers will, of course, still receive four issues for 
their subscription. __ 


7 






















THE HIDDEN UNITY 
and 

BEGINNINGS 


These two booklets have recently been brought out by the Surrey Earth Mysteries Group. 

The Hidden Unity looks at the strange phenomenon of subconscious siting of ley points, 
and notes that places of worship, of all religions and all ages, tend to predominate on leys. 
The environmental and philosophical implications of this are discussed, and the apparent 
necessity of worship but irrelevance of doctrine. Two ley centres are given as examples, 
and investigated in depth - the Shah Jehan Mosque in Woking and the Guru Nanak Sikh 
Temple, Scunthorpe. There is an appendix by Eileen Grimshaw on the significance of 
the Ragan religion to this study. Illustrated with photographs, maps and line drawings. 

Beginnings is about a series of potentially useful discoveries, mainly made by Jimmy 
Goddard over a period of about twenty years, but having some overlap with discoveries 
made by others. For various reasons, the investigations are all in their early stages, and 
some have not been continued. They include earth energy detection, natural antigravity, 
subconscious siting, ley width, and the solar transition effect. There is also a chapter on 
cognitive dissonance • a psychological factor which seems to have been at the root of all 
bigotry - scientific, religious and other - down the ages. The booklet is concluded with 
an account of the discovery of leys by Alfred Watkins. 

Each booklet is £1 plus 30p p&p from the Amskaya address. 


AMSKAYA is the newsletter of the STAR Fellowship, a continuation of the 
organisation formed in 1960 by Tony Wedd of Chiddingaione, who held that contact 
was the way ahead for flying saucer investigation. £2 for four quarterly issues from 
J. Goddard, 25, Albert Road, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey, KT15.2PX. Please 
make cheques payable to J. Goddard. Original cover design by David Taylor. IF 
YOUR SUBSCRIPTION IS DUE AN "X" WILL FOLLOW THIS SENTENCE: 


8 




