Awareness 

Volume 20 No 3 The jDumal oF CooLacL InLernatianal (UK) 


editor pursued by alien beam - exclusive 



Lord Clancarty 1911-1995 - Tributes 













Season 1995-6 

AWARENESS 

Volume 20 No 3 


A Contact (U.K) Publication 


Editorial Address & 

11, Ouseley Close, New Marston 

All correspondence to: 

OXFORD, 0X3 OJS, England. 

Contents 


Pagejs) 

Editorial 


1 

Lord Clancarty Tributes 


2-8 

- Ruth Rees, Bernard Delair 


Editor Pursued by Alien Beam 


8-11 

- Data Research 



Signs in the Fields -16th Year 


12-13 

All in the Brain 


13-21 

- Craig Roberts 



Earthlights Hypothesis Flawed 


21-24 

- M. Soper 



Astronomical Notes 1995 


24-26 

• G.E. Ambler 



Sightings Latest News 


26 

A Dossier of Greek Ufology - Part II 

27-30 

- B. P. James 



Advertisements 


31-33 

CONTACT INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL 



Founder President: Lord Clancarty 


President: 

J. Bernard Delair 


Vice President: 

Geoffrey Ambler 


National Chairman (U.K.): 

Michael Soper 


Hon Treasurer: 

Geoffrey Ambler 


Membership Secretary: 

Louise Copeland 


Data Systems Co-ordinator: 

Mark Maynereid 


Enquiries and Cataloguing: 

Prances Copeland 


Editor: 

Geoffrey Ambler 


Investigations Co-ordinator 

Brian James 


Librarian: 

Bernard Delair 


London Representative: 

Ruth Rees 


Opinions expressed in this journal are not necessarily those of the Editor or Council of Contact 
International (U.K.|. All contributors are solely responsible for the factual accuracy of their 
texts. Unless otherwise stated, all material herein is copyright of Contact International (U.K.) 
1995. No part or parts of any published article may be reproduced whatever the method, 
without prior permission of the Editor of Awareness except for the purposes of review. 

Subscriptions £9 for 4 

£14 for 8 UK 

£12 for 4 Foreign Airmail 


ADVERTISING RATES 


£15 per page (4 issues) 


£10 per 1/2 page (4 issues) 

£7 per 1/4 page (4 issues) 

Lineage 50p a line of 12 words. 

Issues average 3-4 months each • subject to the workload of the production team who are all unpaid volunteers. 


Cover by M. Maynereid 


Word Processing and DTP by H. Ambler 


EDITORIAL 


It is our sad duty to announce the passing of the founder of Contact International, Lord 
Clancarty, formerly Brinsley Le Poer Trench. Tributes by our past and current Presidents 
follow. More recent members may not be aware of the great contributions to Ufology that 
Brinsley produced in the 60's and 70's. Unfortunately his final years were spent in poor health. 

Since the last edition of Awareness, most of the UFO focus has been on a purported alien 
autopsy shown on a 15 minute black and white silent film of doubtful provenance. Marketing 
man Ray Santilli apparently obtained the film from one of the original cameramen who was 
employed by the military to film an historic event of possibly the alien recovered at Roswell, 
New Mexico in 1947. Needing funds to finance a family wedding, suddenly our mystery man 
releases this red hot property that had been mouldering in a bank vault for 48 years?? It sounds 
the stuff of legend, but so far all it has done is to confuse investigating UFO groups. Most 
opinions are that the film is an elaborate hoax, from the London viewing that was permitted on 
May 5th of one 15 minute segment of the film. A number of pictures secretly obtained have 
now been examined by Contact International. The "alien" is essentially humanoid - looks to 
have male physique, but with no genitals. The stomach is blown out like a beer gut and there 
are huge thighs with the right side badly gashed. On the other hand, the arms are very slender 
and there are possibly 6 fingers instead of 5. I would be most surprised if this concoction came 
all the way from Alpha -Centuri - in fact in true editorial tradition - I will eat my shirt if this is 
an alien! Suffice to say, expect arguments and subterfuge to rage on for the rest of 1995. 

Disturbing news from America in that Professor John E Mack author of the best selling 
"Abduction" is being ostracised by fellow academics at Harvard. Dealing with abductions and 
aliens is not considered "cricket" in the Ivy League! No doubt the same would apply to an 
Oxford or Cambridge man stepping outside the safe limits of academia. Then why are we 
constantly referred to these sages when our field investigations come up with inexplicable 
evidence or data? Just to have a big academic name at the back of an investigation only boosts 
its status but rarely solves the mystery. Paranormal events are there to be rationalised! Our 
night photography work for instance has again come up with some amazing results defying 
explanation. My last film produced the most exciting pictures of spiral beams - 5 on 
consecutive frames. If these cannot be explained in terms of current knowledge, then so be it. 
I am convinced that any attempt to scientifically manipulate these findings will get nowhere. 
Just now and again a view into another world comes through. 

An example of human desire to eliminate the "uncomfortable" arose when I was observing the 
latest crop circles near Alresford Hants a few weeks ago, from a busy lay-by. Two middle aged 
ladies saw one of the "long pole" photographers working in the circles across the field and said 
to me - "So thats how its done". They were convinced the pole man was making the circles in 
broad daylight on a Sunday afternoon, in full view of scores of spectators and close to a farm! 

Congratulations to our President, Bernard Delair, who has co-authored the book "When the 
Earth Nearly Died", published by Gateway. This comprehensive work is probably the most 
complete evidence of a cosmic collision with the planet 11,500 years ago, and should be a 
standard reference subsequently. 


THE EDITOR. 













LORD CLANCARTY (BRINSLEY] 
FOUNDER OF CONTACT INTERNATIONAL 

1911-1995 


Editor : We regret the passing of our Founder President on May 18th 1995. Here follows a 
tribute by Ruth Rees, our former President who knew Brinsley better than most. The obituary 
published in the Times on May 29th is also reproduced. 

From Ruth Rees 


My memories of Contact International’s founder are of a warm, witty and congenial man whose 
dedication to the subject of UFO investigation was an inspiration to all Ufologists. 

Before we ever met we were in communication by letters, for I was living and working in Spain 
at the time (1960s) and had gathered together a large group of local people interested in the 
UFO phenomena. In my work as PRO of a 5-star hotel on the Costa del Sol I had the facilities 
for meetings and most of the members of the group I formed, which was called Amigos de 
Ovnis de la Costa del Sol' - a mouthful translating 'Friend of UFOs of the Costa del Sol’ - came 
from the nearby capital of Malaga. 

Somehow Brinsley (in those days he was still the Hon. Brinsley Le Poer Trench) got to hear 
about out activities, or perhaps I contacted him during a period when I had organised a two-day 
seminar on UFOs which attracted enthusiasts from all over Spain, but anyway around the time 
Brinsley invited me to form a Spanish branch of Contact International which I did most gladly. 

On my return home to London in the 70s, I was invited to join the Contact International 
committee and so met Brinsley personally. I had already read his fascinating books and 
marvelled at the research that had gone into them and the interest-retaining way he had written 
them: once you started any of his books you couldn’t put it down. Our committee meetings in 
his house were always happy occasions with laughter and enthusiastic plans for furthering the 
investigations of UFOs. He told us about the first one he saw from his own home which he 
recounted with his usual great humour, but above all he should be remembered by everyone 
involved in UFO research for his successes in arranging and seeing thorough a debate on UFOs 
in the House of Lords. I still have the Hansard of the time and it evokes strong memories of a 
packed chamber - not a spare seat to be had in the public gallery, and certainly not on the 
Members’s benches - and of the evasive and foolish manner in which the spokesman for the 
government tried to ridicule the proceedings. In this regard Lord Trefgarne, the government’s 
spokesman on the matter was outstanding for his ignorance of the subject and scornful attitude 
towards it, while Earl Kimberley, always a staunch ally, gave great support to Brinsley in the 
fascinating debate, a debate which could never have come about without our Founder’s brilliant 
hard work, imagination and tenacity. 

All in all, we were exceptionally fortunate in having as our guiding figure in Contact 
International a man of Brinsley's calibre and character; somebody without any "side" to him, 
somebody, to sum up, who was so likeable as well as being expert in his specialist subject. 

He will be greatly missed not only in Contact circles but wherever there is serious research into 
the UFO problem. It may all still be a mystery to us, but one thing is fairly certain, Brinsley 
now knows all the answers. 

Everyone in Contact International send their condolences and regards to his widow, the 
Countess of Clancarty. 


Obituary from the Times 


3 


THE EARL OF CLANCARTY 

The Earl of Clancarty, the author of books on unidentified flying objects (UFOs), died on May 
18 aged 83. He was bom on September 18, 1911. 

IN INSTIGATING a House of Lords debate on UFOs 16 years ago, the 8th Earl of Clancarty 
ensured himself a highly eccentric entry in the proceedings of that venerable chamber. On that 
occasion a bemused Lord Strabolgi, speaking for the government, made clear that whatever else 
it believed in, on that particular theme the administration must inevitably remain sceptical. 
"Where are these alien spacecraft now?" he inquired. 

As chairman of the Lords UFO study group, Clancarty had his own answer to that question, 
although not all members of the group endorsed his theory. He maintained that aliens from a 
number of differing galaxies had first peopled the Earth some 65,000 years ago - thus accounting 
for our various races and colours of skin, some still lived near the centre of the Earth, which 
they had entered through a series of tunnels at strategic points, the North and South Poles and 
Tibet being among these. 

When once asked where these aliens had got to, he replied: "Well, you do see a lot of strange 
people around, don’t you?" 

If not all peers accepted this unusual thesis, quite a number were clearly intrigued by the 
subject matter. The debate in 1979 attracted hundreds, who fought their way into the Upper 
House’s chambers. It was one of the best attended for some years. 

Clancarty also wrote seven books in 14 years, which would seem to have sold well in the 1960s 
when interest in space and the possibility of extraterrestrial life was beginning to grip the nation 
as dreams of manned space flight were gradually turned into a reality. 

The Earl of Clancarty was born William Francis Brinsley Le Poer Trench, fifth son of the 5th 
Earl, and was brought up in London, the family had originally been Huguenots who had 
crossed the Channel from France 400 years ago, settling first in Northumberland then, later, as 
Anglo-Irish gentry in Co. Galway. 

Brinsley's most illustrious ancestor was the 2nd Earl who was Britain’s Ambassador to The 
Hague early in the last century and was present at the Congress of Vienna after the Napoleonic 
Wars. The actor Tyrone Power was a later somewhat distant, relative. 

Brinsley Le Poer Trench went to Pangbourne Nautical College and worked for a while selling 
advertising space for a gardening magazine. But he switched to full-time writing after 
publication of his first book in 1960. 

On succeeding his half-brother Greville as the 8th Earl in 1975 he developed a third career at 
the House of Lords. He was a tall, kindly man who, in addition to his obsession with UFOs, 
took an interest in health matters and defence. He regularly attended meetings of the all-party 
defence group as well as turning up faithfully for Lords debates. 

His books, all published under the name of Brinsley Le Poer Trench, were The Sky People 
(1960), Men Among Mankind (1962), Forgotten Heritage (1964), The Flying Saucer Story (1966), 
Operation Earth (1969), The Eternal Subject (1973) and Secret Of The Ages (1974). He also 
edited the Flying Saucer Review, helped to set up the International UFO Observer Corps and 
was founder-president of Contact, an international UFO group. 













4 



His greatest disappointment, perhaps, was 
never to have had a close encounter of his 
own, despite going to some lengths to do so. 
the nearest he got to one was when he 
spotted an "eerie white light" zig-zagging 
across the night sky over South Kensington, 
but although he scrambled on top of the 
kitchen sink to improve his view, the 
"saucer" had vanished behind cloud seconds 
before. 

Lord Clancarty, who died in a Sussex nursing 
home, is survived by his fourth wife. May, 
formerly the widow of a commander in the 
Royal Navy, whom he married in 1976. The 
title passes to his nephew, Nicholas Le Poer 
Trench who becomes the 9th Earl. 


BRINSLEY LE POER TRENCH (1911 - 19951: 

LINK BETWEEN PAST AND PRESENT. 

by 

J.B. Delair. 

Few readers will be unaware that our founder president, Brinsley Le Poer Trench ('Brinsley' as 
he was always called), passed away peacefully, aged 83 years, in a Sussex nursing home on May 
18th this year. Various obituaries and biographical notices of him, his wide-ranging interests, 
and his achievements, have already appeared and still others undoubtedly will in the 
forthcoming months. This note, however, is not intended as yet another summary of his career, 
but rather as a snapshot assessment of his role in British Ufology - unquestionably the area of 
his greatest endeavour and his unique position among recent world ufologists. 

A defensible basis for attempting this (a) the present writer's long acquaintance with Brinsley, 
an association extending over 30 years, and (b) the desirability of placing on permanent record 
some of his otherwise unrecorded thoughts and comments respecting ufology in general and 
certain past ufological personalities expressed at numerous meetings. These latter included 
both one-to-one lunches and the London committee meetings he regularly chaired, first at his 
flat in Earl's Court and then at his house in Belgravia during the initial 4 or 5 years of Contact's 
existence (following the demise of the earlier International UFO Observer Corps and before 
Contact finally crystallised into Contact (UK) International). It was during that period (the 
sixties and early seventies) that Brinsley authored his now famous books "The Sky People" 
(1960), " Men Amo ng Mankind" (1962), " Forgotten Heritage " (1964), " The Flying Saucer Story " 
(1966), " Operation Earth" (1969), " The External Subject " (1973), and " Secret of the Ages " (1974); 
had, prior to the arrival of the late Charles Bowen, edited ' Flying Saucer Review ' (FSR) for a 
while; and, after his elevation to the peerage as the 8th. Earl of Clancarty following the death in 
1975 of his half-brother the 7th Earl, had unwittingly been preparing the ground for what was 
to become one of the more memorable debates in recent history of the house of Lords - the 
Great UFO Debate of 1979. 


The ufological opinions and conclusions of a man enjoying such a 'run', while not always 
coinciding with those of other informed ufologists, certainly merited attention and often 
generated discussion. 

Many of Brinsley's observations concerned early pioneer ufologists who, although in many 
cases well known during their respective eras, are now either almost all deceased or forgotten 
by most modem researchers, or remembered merely as the writers of early 'saucer' books. 
Brinsley, however, knew or had corresponded with most of these figures personally - he was a 
prodigious letter-writer so his remarks, before being lost for ever, and being themselves unique 
links with a now fast vanishing early period of ufology, deserve to be set down here for 
posterity. 

The following notes do not reflect any specific order of importance, but do cast light on how 
Brinsley became involved with ufology and, for a while, the standard-bearer in Britain for UFO 
research. 

Always an avid reader, Brinsley admitted to having become intrigued by UFOs from 1952 
onwards through the writings of the British authors Gerald Heard (" The Riddle of the Flying 
Saucers ", 1950), Desmond Leslie (" Flying Saucers Have Landed ". 1954), and Harold T. Wilkins 
(" Flying Saucers on the Moon ". 1954), and those of their American counterparts, Donald Keyhoe 
(" The Flying Saucers Are Real ". 1950; " Flying Saucers From Outer Space ", 1954), and Kenneth 
Arnold and Ray Palmer (" The Coming of the Sauc er", 1952). These publications encompassed 
not only Arnold's seminal sightings of 1947 but several sensational early episodes like the 
Lubbock lights phenomena (1951), the Capt. Mantell case (1948), Lt. Gorman's mid-air duel 
with a UFO over Fargo, N.Dakota (1948), George Adamski's saucerride claims (1952), the space 
'monster' incident near Sutton, W.Virginia (1952), the impressive Chiles and Whitted airline 
sighting over Alabama (1948), the controversial Harold Dahl affair at Tacoma Bay, Washington 
State (1948), and, via the writings of Leslie and Wilkins, the fact that UFO-like manifestations in 
Earth's skies extended back centuries, even millennia. 

The two latter sources introduced Brinsley to the works of Charles Fort (died 1932) which, with 
their wealth of documented 'natural ephemerabilia', are too well known to require further 
comment here. These sources induced Brinsley to contact American publisher Ray Palmer (see 
above) and, through him, Harold T. Wilkins in Bexley, Kent. Correspondence was also begun 
with Arthur Constance (who shortly afterwards published " The Inexplicable Sky ". 1956) at 
Bath, his London publisher Waveney Girvan (himself to produce the admirable " Flying Saucers 
and Common Sense " in 1955), and the British Flying Saucer Bureau, which, headquartered in 
Horfield, Bristol, was then arguably Britain's leading UFO study group. Communications were 
also established with its contemporary American equivalent, the Borderland Sciences Research 
Association (BSRA) headed by Dr. Meade Layne in San Diego, southern California. Through 
that organisation Brinsley also made contact with pioneer American researcher Frederick G. 
Hehr of Santa Monica, western California. 

Collectively, these publications, organisations, and UFO-minded individuals quickly provided 
Brinsley with a nearly complete overview of world ufology as then comprehended. Wilkins, 
Meade Layne, and especially Hehr, supplied him with many hundreds of original newspaper 
cuttings recording contemporary UFO events published by the local press of their particular 
areas. These now historic items, together with various early issues of the magazine periodically 
issued by the BSRA, were generously donated by Brinsley in the early 1970s to Contact (UK) 
International, and now grace its extensive archives. 

Inevitably, pre-1960s explanations about the UFO phenomena -proffered during the very 
period when Brinsley was rotorvating the general UFO field preparatory to writing his first 


































6 

book - were coloured by the achievements and hopes of early post-WWII technology and the 
contemporaneous Russian/American race to put men onto the Moon. Throughout the 1950s and 
early 1960s, space travel, satellites, astronauts, and even extraterrestrial intelligence - the latter 
commonly presented to the public (pre-eminently by Hollywood) as aggressive, a la the 
Martians of H.G. Well’s " War of the Worlds " fantasy - were subjects frequently discussed at 
virtually all social levels, although society as a whole continued to regard the actuality of UFOs 
as either highly unlikely or arrant nonsense, and the claims and counter-claims of ufologists as 
those of the self-deluded. 

Brinsley's ability, however, to perceive possible links between diverse data of the kind 
previously logged by Fort, Constance, Leslie, Wilkins, and others, and to enquire whether such 
material was somehow connected with human origins and mankind’s early history, led him to 
formulate ideas which, though taken up anew by later writers like Von Daniken and Sitchin, 
were actually first presented in his three earliest books. 

While he did not coin the word ’ufonaut’, Brinsley often used it in conversations, and his ’Sky 
People’, the principal element in his first books, were no more than the ’ufonauts’ or 
’saucemauts’ advocated by other ufologists around that time. At this juncture, it may be of 
interest to note that as early as 1927, the anthropologist W.J. Perry, when tracing global 
traditions of the ’Creation’ story, was able to consistently link them to ’Sky Gods’ (" The 
Children of the Sun: A Study in the Early History of Civilization ". (London), see chapters xiii 
and xiv), again an alternative title of Brinsley’s ’Sky People’. It is also known that Wilkins had 
influenced, at least partially, Brinsley’s thinking on that aspect of ufology. 

But for Brinsley the ’Sky People’ were primarily benevolent creators, quite a contrast to the 
predominately hostile space invaders up to then so beloved of film makers, sci-fi authors, and 

even some pioneer ufologists (e.g., Wilkins).* Privately, he more than once conceded that 
Charles Fort had perhaps had a point when he suggested that humanity was probably ’owned’ 
by some other-world intelligence, not necessarily a particular ’caring’ one according to our 
appreciation of that word. 

Naturally mild mannered - frequently jovial in a ’jolly jape’ sort of way - Brinsley’s initial 
thinking on this theme evidently contained little room for hostile space entities for that very 
reason. Only during the mid-1970s did he accept that several different extraterrestrial races 
probably existed (even co-existed), perhaps on different physical planes (space-time continua), 
and that some, having different policies, could, a priori, be generally hostile or indifferent to 
earthlings, on analysis this is an eminently reasonable line of approach to this particular area of 
enquiry, although not one easily substantiated by solid facts, or necessarily attractive to modem 
ufologists. 

In later years he maintained that several space-races, as reported in UFO-landing cases, and as 
epitomised by large and small forms, appeared to be robotic or programmed and perhaps 
organically engineered, these, he surmised, must be controlled more distantly by some higher 
intelligence, possibly unable, like H.G. Well’s ’Martians’, to operate effectively under natural 
terrestrial conditions. 

Taken as a whole he felt that the UFO phenomenon was not only alien (benign rather than 
hostile) but too superior to need to make regular contact with present humanity. This other- 
world intelligence he suggested simply studied us and our ’peculiar ways’ from afar, via 
controlled machines and android-like entities. 


"Flying Saucers on the Attack" New York, 1956): published simultaneously in Britain as 
Flying Saucers Uncensored" (London) 


Brinsley’s principal premise - shared down the years by the majority of ufologists - was that 
every genuine UFO manifestation (upon discarding the spurious reports) displayed varying 
forms of advanced intelligence, sometimes odd by our standards, which, through the use of a 
near-miraculous technology, was almost always awesome. Such characteristics, he urged, 
betrayed a very long history of development. The intelligence was very ancient. 

He concluded, therefore, that the apparent interest of UFOs in Earth and its human denizens 
signified something special, and mirrored a specific reason. And because it had, according to 
the data massed by Fort, Wilkins, and others, been going for a very long time the likelihood was 
high that today’s UFO occupants were prehistory’s ’Sky Gods', his ’Sky People’, who, in world¬ 
wide tradition, allegedly ’civilised’ early mankind, or even created humanity in the first place. 
Conventional evolutionary theory was not required in such a scenario. Their creation of Man 
underpins their continuing interest in Earth. 

For Brinsley, these archaic ’benefactors’ were synonymous with the celestial Father-God and 
his ’angels’ underlying most of the world’s religions, ancient and modem, and the ’Elohim’ of 
many early archaeological texts and inscriptions, and like the ’Elohim’ they travelled about in 
the flying ’chariots’, ’vimanas’, and ’sky ships’ alluded to in countless ancient traditions 
worldwide. Their earliest discernible activities, enshrined in sketchy racial memories and lost 
world histories, apparently involved Atlantis and other lost continents, shades of the notions 
advanced earlier by Leslie and certain other early ufological authors; and developed, perhaps, 
through Brinsley’s correspondence with Hehr, who is known to have entertained similar ideas. 

That many of Brinsley’s ideas sometimes included novel interpretations of evidence 
demonstrably interpretable in less exotic ways inevitably meant that his hypotheses received 
decidedly limited support from the ’nuts and bolts’ skein of ufologists, although, as he readily 
admitted, that was to be expected. General readers, however, found his theories interesting 
judging from the healthy sales enjoyed by most of his books. In that respect he used to remark, 
"Well, you can’t please all the people all of the time" - and that before he entered the House of 
Lords and the realm of politics! 

On the basis of dinner-table discussions, it is known that Brinsley’s fertile mind toyed with a 
wide range of amazing ideas. He committed few of these to writing. 

Were UFOs controlled by super-advanced plants rather than by creatures we would class as 
zoological? The apparent inability of UFO occupants to interbreed with us (a suggestion 
rendered less cogent by later UFO reports), but their evident strong interest in terrestrial plants 
generally, were thought to support this notion. Did a giant intergalactic computer, which had 
largely superseded organic intelligence, actually generate UFO phenomena? The sometimes 
erratic behaviour of UFOs and their occupants could be accounted for by such a mechanism not 
in possession of all collectable facts about planet Earth. 

There is no doubt that Brinsley’s published ufological concepts consisted of various 
amalgamations of the writings and opinions of his predecessors and contemporaries. These he 
struggled to weld into a coherent, composite, whole. With characteristic generosity of spirit he 
insisted that he had failed to achieve his goal, further observing that "It couldn’t be reached 
anyway since we did not possess all the necessary data". 

Budding authors bent on producing the ’definitive’ UFO book would do well to heed those wise 
words. 


Brinsley’s opinions of his peers were usually favourable, although he could be a shrewd judge 
of character when required. Among those he commented upon were: 











8 

Charles Bowen, his successor as editor of Flying Saucer Review, he considered "the best 
man for the job". 

Frederick Hehr was a "perpetual fountain of energy and interest". 

Arthur Constance he regarded as "one of the most charming persons he had ever met". 

Ray Palmer "meant well but all too often had too much of an eye on making a fast buck". 

Harold Wilkins he found to be "the most erudite person he had ever met, but prone to carping 
unnecessarily at others". 

Meade Layne at San Diego was "kindness itself". 

Dr Allan Hynek, who needs no further introduction, he thought "played his cards too close to 
his chest, doubtless because of associated academic constraints". 

Frederick Passey, long-time chairman of the UK branch of Contact International, he classified as 
"very dependable and level-headed". 

John Cleary-Baker, until his demise a full member of Contact (UK)’s governing committee, he 
considered to be a "sound no-nonsense thinker". 

And Ivan T. Sanderson, whom he met on several occasions, and the author of " Uninvited 
Visitors " and other UFO books, was "blessed with a wonderfully inventive turn of mind". 

Seldom did he seriously castigate others or their beliefs. He looked for the credit side in others 
or their opinions. This somewhat starry-eyed or over-optimistic approach to the UFO 
controversy unquestionably underlay his desire for the final outcome to be an up-lifting one, not 
a ghastly traumatic Wellsian one involving tyrannical Dalek-like creations. Brinsley's outlook 
and hopes surely reflect those of all of us, even though the route by which he arrived at these 
may not always be our own. 

As a figure in ufology he will probably always be somewhat enigmatic. But what cannot be 
denied is that he was one of the last of a band who, beginning with Fort and continuing on until 
about 1960, were the pioneers of ufology as we presently conceive it. He was one of the last 
surviving links with those halcyon days, it being no exaggeration to state that, with his passing, 
ufology will be all the poorer. 

J.B. Delair. 

Oxford: June 1995. 


EDITOR PURSUED BY ALIEN BEAM?? 

Night Photography Update - By Data Research. 

The previous edition of Awareness revealed pictures of unknown life or energy forms captured 
by flash photography. It is accepted that some of the globe like objects seen might be due to 
moisture or internal faults in cameras, but a spiral leaping across a whole shot taken November 
1994 and an amazing structured and beautiful entity snapped in February 1995 remain 
unexplained. 

The present status of groups participating in these experiments is as follows. 


9 

(i) PLYMOUTH UFO GROUP: After producing several hundred photographs with 
globes, squares and hexagons up to Oct. 1994, PUFORG are resuming their operations. Doubt 
was cast on the validity of some of the pictures taken in wet conditions climaxing in globes with 
"faces" on them. 

(ii) CORNWALL 2, CCCS: We have examined several shots taken by members of this 
group up to Spring 1995 showing globes with or without features and taken at various locations 
in the Callington area. Many of these globes are inexplicably "chopped off" at their bases - a 
feature noted earlier at Plymouth. A wider range of locations seems to indicate that results can 
be achieved outside of specific fields with crop circles or similar markings. 

(iii) CONTACT INTERNATIONAL: Separate investigations by Brian James and Geoff 
Ambler continue. Photos taken at the place where the incredible structured object was picked 
up on 2 shots have shown some inexplicable clouds and red areas but the original has not been 
seen again so far. Of course evidence is needed on a second camera or at least a replicate on 
the same camera. 

A number of films taken in the Oxford area have shown a few faint globes, but these are almost 
transparent and featureless. However on May 24th at a skywatch on Wittenham Clumps, 
Oxon, a film of 100 ASA taken by Geoff Ambler in wet, drizzly conditions picked up one 
outstanding globe of over half-an-inch diameter on the shot. This is illustrated in Fig. 1. The 
strange equipment on the stone plinth is a gizmo devised by Mike Soper to pick up signals in 
the infra red area. When a distinctive change in tone was noted, a photograph across the device 
was taken. The very powerful looking globe has some markings etched on it and it is the only 
globe in the picture - the fine drizzle drops have not been captured on this slow film. At the 
same venue, 400 ASA film used by Brian James picked up more faint globes and very small rain 
drops. The faster film did not record any solid looking globes, although an almond shaped 
object is seen on both films on several shots. Whether this could have developed into the final 
globe by absorbing energy is a point of conjecture. 

Our next target is to establish under what conditions globes appear. Although they have 
appeared most noticeably in damp or wet overcast conditions it is not proven that they are 
merely drops of rain. This can be judged from Fig. 1 by scaling the stone plinth, gizmo and 
globe - the plinth is at least 2 feet across the top so the globe - somewhat beyond? - must be at 
least 6" in diameter - far bigger than any rain drops. It is possible that globes are brought down 
with the rain but are not related in any way. 

The second half of the film used at Wittenham Clumps - shots 13-25 was discharged in a casual 
manner over the beach and road at Seaton, Cornwall on 30/5/95 approx. 21:45pm. Weather was 
fine with a clear sky. The vague idea was to see if any globes appeared on film taken near the 
edge of the sea. The first five were uninteresting, but then 5 consecutive shots from 18-22 had 
wonderful spirals on them. The same camera had previously picked up just one spiral last 
November near Oxford. Since then, shooting nearly 200 more pictures, the spiral had not 
reappeared until this sequence. 

Notes 

18. Pink edged opaque beam on RHS. Looking West across Seaton Beach. Lights of Looe clearly 
seen. 

19. Wispy, transparent spiral beam across whole shot, important point is that the skyline is 
visible through beam indicating that the effect is external to the camera. Direction to hills 
behind Seaton. 













10 


Fig. 1 Globe beside Plinth at Wittenham Clumps 24/5/95 



Fig. 2 Beam at Seaton, Cornwall 30/5/95 (Shot 22 Beam Splitting) 



11 

20. On road back to house 10 minutes later - very strong tapering beam in centre of shot. On 
LHS is wooded area; on RHS houses. 

21. Almost similar beam a few yards further on. Car number plate just appearing. 

22. Remarkable splitting of beam into 2 sections. Feathery spiral replacing thicker sort? Car 
number plate fully illuminated. See Fig. 2 

Having gone inside the house for a few minutes, it was then decided to finish off the film, the 
last 3 shots were blank. 

It may or may not be relevant - but Geoff visited Bob Boyd of Plymouth UFO Group earlier in 
the day to discuss these pictures in the dark. Bob and colleagues took several hundred 
photographs of anomalies last Summer! 

If you can offer a mundane explanation of the spirals please phone/write immediately. The 
other conclusion is that Geoff was followed along for around 15 minutes by something quite 
extraordinary but outside the realms of human awareness! 

Data Research welcomes more participants in this project. Just now and again quite remarkable 
things are being photographed. The main point is that instant gratification cannot be 
guaranteed. Patience and persistence will ultimately be rewarded plus a mass of dross costing 
£4 ukp a film! Remember you only need basic cameras and films to achieve results. The skill 
is maybe in knowing where and when to fire off a film. 


strcpoisNjsE: at seaton 3^1 5 MS' 































12 


SIGNS IN THE FIELDS ■ 16 T H YEAR 

by G.E. Ambler 


The crop circles have returned yet again in 1995 inspite of the many dire predictions of their 
demise due to the hoaxers retiring or the rare natural event running out of whatever causes it! 
In fact the "hot spot” is back at Cheesefoot Head district near Winchester where the infamous 
"Doug and Dave” claimed to have created all the formations between 1978 and 1991 and then 
chucked it in. Dave has not been seen for 2 years, while Doug occasionally disrupts a meeting 
claiming the hand of God was guiding him during his cereal vandalism! Unfortunately the 
intricate work and size of the 1995 designs suggests that rather more than a stomping plank or 
roller is involved. 


"Signs in the Fields" might now be more appropriate than "crop circles" as formations have long 
ceased being merely circles. Every conceivable geometrical configuration has appeared. It is 
now a question of combining shapes together. Some of the many hundreds of pictograms have 
meaningful designs but the majority are merely artistic and beautiful. The ultimate purpose 
may be to make the human race aware of another lifeform in another dimension. Where we 
can come together is in a manifestation of controlled energy which physically produces meaning 
and raises consciousness. Depending on the state of your mind you either accept or reject. 


The first formations of 1995 were surprisingly reported from an area of Lancashire around 
Preston in late April; a small line of circles in rape and a ring at Bolton Green. Another rape 
formation with crescent, circle and spht ringed circle was reported from Kings Sombome, 
Hants, rather a long time after it formed - possibly as early as April 9th. The build up in rape 
continued with interesting formations at West Overton, Wilts; Southease, East Sussex; and 
Overton near Basingstoke. (See Diagram). By the time the phenomenon moved into barley it 
was becoming clear that the 1995 area of high activity was on a line from Warminster- 
Winchester (WiltsVHants) with less round the Silbury Hill area which dominated for the first 8 
weeks of the season in 1994. The tendency to cluster early on in one area has been noted for 
many years. From mid-July on a rapid expansion usually occurs across the country. 

-^ i I .. . T 0VeRTor4 





The first barley formation was probably a large ringed circle on the 29th May at Avebury close 
to the A4. The raised portion of crop contained a 9 turn spiral. A very interesting ringed circle 
with galaxy arms arrived 31st May near Alfreston, E.Sussex. In early June another 9 ringed 


13 

affair arrived at Bratton near Westbury White Horse. This had galaxy type features impressed 
on some of the rings. On June 13th came a very large ringed circle which had 4 mini Celtic 
crosses incorporated into the design on Telegraph Hill, Cheesefoot Head. A 1994 style 
"scorpion” formation arrived at Danebury Ring, Hants, on June 16th with a large unique design 
head. 

A series of multiple small circle designs marked the change over to designs in wheat. Two 
groupings appeared simultaneously on June 20th to the east and west of Alresford Hants. As 
many as 80-100 circles were seen on one design forming roughly into a ring around a central 
circle. Whether any geometric sense can be made of this is still under consideration. Our latest 
news is of a huge design comprising 7 rings and a horseshoe shape of 12 overlapping circles 
just west of and visible from the A34 near Litchfield Hants. This appeared on Sat July 8th. 
Once again a very large formation has appeared in the Cheesefoot Head Punchbowl (affording a 
panoramic view from the A272 road), and there is another good one a mile further up the road. 
The Punchbowl design this year is a very large flower head made up of 14 half rings or half 
circles with a projecting stem. It is estimated that the crop will not be harvested before the end 
of July. Not since 1990 has Cheesefoot produced so early in the season. 

Now that events are entering the wheat crop - by far the most frequented by circles - we 
strongly anticipate some very big events quite soon. Our annual Crop Circle Bulletin will be 
sent out in Mid-August to those usually receiving it. If you require a free copy please apply to 
headquarters. 


ALL IN THE BRAIN - Can electromagnetic influences on the brain cause UFO 

sightings and alien abductions? 

by Craig Roberts 

(Part of dissertation for BSc degree Psychology 1994-5, University of Southampton) 

"Perhaps we will find that the UFO dilemma, like so many apparently insoluble problems in the 
history of science, can be resolved by precise numerical analyses." 

(Persinger 1980, p.796). 

"One hypothesis is that close encounter experiences displayed near a luminosity are evoked by 
direct stimulation through current induction within the observer's brain." 

(Persinger 1983c, p.259). 

This article essentially chronicles the research of Michael Persinger who hypothesises that 
UFO/alien abduction experiences can be explained by electrical activity in the percipient's 
brain. 

PERSINGER’S THEORY 

Michael Persinger is a psychologist. Curiously, however, his initial work within the 
UFO/abduction field involved geology and geophysics. His overall theory could be classified as 
geophysical as it is the integration of geology with psychology which forms the rationale behind 
his theory. 

Persinger(1976) assessed 7000 reports of unusual events spanning a 160 year period. Patterns 
seemingly emerged linking geophysical processes with verbal accounts of experiences within 
the locality of these geophysical processes. 
























14 

Luminous phenomena observed near or on the ground before, during, or after earthquakes 
(seismic activity) could, quite easily be mistaken as a UFO. The behaviour of these lights 
appeared strikingly similar to many accounts of UFO behaviour. Maintaining a stable spacial 
position for x amount of time then suddenly moving upwards and vanishing are what both 
phenomena are reported to exhibit. Therefore, through piezoelectric effects from seismic 
activity, could a percipient be affected by these electrical activities in a way reminiscent of 
UFO/abduction reports? Michael Persinger certainly believed this to be true and began to bring 
his psychological knowledge into his theory. 

As a human being is a biosystem including the characteristics of being a complex structure of 
weak electrical and magnetic fields, Persinger (1976) theorized that the luminous phenomena 
generated by seismic activity (being electrically charged) could have a profound effect on the 
percipients electrical make up. Persinger broke these effects down into indirect and direct 
categories. 

Indirect effects primarily involve visual and emotional features of the experience. That is, later 
descriptions of the episode would be affected by aspects such as emotion and the visual record 
of the event. For instance, if the luminous phenomena approached the percipient it could be 
labelled "an attack" whereas a stable light could be conducting "surveillance". 

Direct effects include those proximity sensations, specific brain area electrical stimulation, 
amnesia and exposure after effects. Close proximity sensations would include "tingling", 
"prickly sensation" coupled with piloerection and apprehension. Hippocampal and temporal 
lobe stimulation could allow percipients to gain access to vivid imagery which may become 
indistinguishable from reality. If amnesia is experienced, it could allow confabulation by 
individual-specific fantasies which again may be indistinguishable from reality. After affects 
would include skin bums, nausea and sleep disturbance among others. All of these appear to 
be concurrent with accounts of UFO perception and possible alien abductions (see Nagaitis & 
Mantle 1994, Stone 1993, UFO Casebook 1991). 

A summary of the Persinger hypothesis is that luminous phenomena produced by earth bound 
geological processes, not only mimic "UFO" behaviour, but the electromagnetism released by 
them effects temporal lobe structures in the percipients brain causing them to believe they have 
seen an extraterrestrial craft, or in extreme cases, to have been abducted by aliens. As temporal 
lobe stimulation can produce vivid memories which have no objective reality, the event can be 
easily "mixed up" in a concoction of reality and fantasy. 

Therefore, it would appear that this theory fits rather well into the UFO enigma, explaining 
both sections of the UFO-percipient equation. Alas, a theory needs evidence to aid it's cause 
and this is where Michael Persinger is admittedly weak. 

THE EVIDENCE 

This section will give a chronological discussion of Michael Persinger evidence to show the 
development of his theory. 

Persinger(1980) discovered that in certain areas of the United States of America, the correlation 
between seismic activity and UFO reports approached r=-1-0.7. It must be noted that the 
majority of areas either had negative correlations or very modest values (r= -»-0.1 to -1-0.3). 
Curiously, subsequent papers only assessed the larger correlations in Central and Eastern 
United States in more detail, ignoring areas where correlations wee minimal (Persinger 
1981,1982,1983b). Extending to European reports, the success rate at predicting UFO type 
reports was rather poor at 28% (Persinger 1983a). Persevering, Persinger (1983c) began to 


15 

assess the psychological effects on percipients from the electromagnetic emissions. Figure one 
shows what Persinger( 1983c) believes would happen if a percipient approached a luminous 
emission and vice versa. 


Of 

3 



Toben -pTDm M.A . . 


o 


^ * 

3 

2 6 


W C 

1 2 

(£ ^ 


. c 





y M- 


0 

c 

% o 


<£ ' 



VX) 


distance 

C CWpertcir upon and op LummosCt^ ) 

As the luminosity releases electromagnetic energy it would begin to alter brain function, the 
temporal lobe would be affected due to it's lower electrical firing threshold. This stimulation is 
the crux of Persinger's psychological assessments of percipients. 

The direct stimulation would, according to Persinger( 1983c) "modify consciousness, perceptual 
processing and memory." (p261). Any perceptual episode occurring throughout this stimulation 
would become more vivid relative to normal functioning, these vivid experiences would 
include strangeness, alterations to perception and terror. These three effects appear concurrent 
with UFO/abduction accounts (see Stone 1993 for examples). 

According to Persinger, the most important feature of his theory regards the origin the origin of 
close encounters. That is, the electromagnetic field correlated with these luminous phenomena 
modify the electrical activity of the percipients brain evoking the close encounter experience. 
The exact content should be "standard" with three variable aspects- 

(i) Portion of the brain/body affected 

(ii) Verbal label applied to the event before stimulation 
(hi) The percipients past reinforcement history. 

This essentially covers Persinger from the variations seen in percipient reports. It must be 
noted here that Michael Persinger has subsequently n^yer assessed the three variable aspects 
stated above, choosing instead to focus on temporal lobe activity. 

Persinger continued to report correlational evidence linking seismic activity to percipient 
reports in Washington State (Persinger & Derr 1984), Sweden (Mattson & Persinger 1986), 
Missouri State (Persinger 1988a) and Manitoba, Canada (Persinger & Derr 1990). Interspersed 
within the correlational evidence were papers assessing temporal lobe stimulation and its link to 
paranormal experiences. 

Early research had shown tentative correlational relationships between temporal lobe activity 


odd tun of 






16 

and paranormal beliefs (Persinger 1984 a,b, Persinger & Valliant 1985). That is enhanced 
temporal lobe neuronal firing can produce feelings which can be attributed to paranormal 
phenomena including UFO/abduction experiences. This is due to enhanced access to vivid 
imagery which can be manipulated by pre-situation verbal labelling (e.g. Ts that a UFO?'). 
Persinger and Richards (1991) extended the idea of temporal lobe activity by introducing the 
notion that partial temporal lobe epilepsy could cause beliefs of alien abduction from UFO 
sightings. As normal people who display qualitatively similar phenomenology compared to 
people's displays evoked by surgery or spontaneously, also report more subjective paranormal 
experiences, it could be temporal lobe epilepsy which causes the experience(s). 

Persinger(1989) believed the 'sensed presence’ felt in abduction experiences was also due to 
temporal lobe activity. Again, normal people who appear prone to these experiences show 
heightened temporal lobe activity which, again, gives easier access to vivid, fantastical 
memorial images. Extending these ideas, DeSana and Persinger (1987) had already shown that a 
magnetic field generated around the individuals head gave grandiose imaginings and vestibular 
experiences. 

Blackmore (1994) decided to test Persinger's belief that he could induce alien abduction in the 
laboratory. In a Horizon programme for the BBC (broadcast November 1994), Blackmore was 
taken into a dimly lit laboratory. When sitting comfortably, a special helmet which specifically 
stimulated the temporal lobes with magnetic fields was fitted and ping pong balls placed over 
the eyes. Blackmore was wide awake throughout the laboratory abduction and after ten 
minutes "..it felt for all the world as though two hands had grabbed my shoulders and were 
bodily yanking me upright...something seemed to get hold of my leg and pull it, distort it, and 
drag it up to the ceiling.." (p.31). Blackmore admittedly knew that her experience had occurred 
as a result of the magnetic stimulation, but what if people did not know the cause? Wouldn't 
they want an explanation for their experience? It appeared puzzling that Blackmore did not 
report a vision of an 'alien entity'. She had her doubts of his theory as a whole because her 
experience was created by close range manipulation. What about the accounts of distal visions 
and multiple percipients spread over a relatively large location? "Suddenly prospects of 
magnetic mind control seems an awful lot worse than the idea of being abducted by imaginary 
aliens." (Blackmore 1994, p.31). 

THE ASSESSMENT - criticisms and benefits of Persinger’s theory 

Before critically assessing the theory and its application(s), it appears appropriate to note a study 
described in the previous chapter (Spanos et al. 1993). Using the Personal Philosophy Inventory 
(PPI) which assesses temporal lobe lability, it was seen that it could not differentiate percipients 
from non-percipients. The PPI was designed by Michael Persinger. Jacobs(1994) never 
discovered temporal lobe lability in the abductees he has assessed. In fact one of his clients was 
taking medication which enhanced temporal lobe epilepsy. In one day she reported 125 such 
seizures but not once did she claim being abducted by aliens. It appears strange that only 
Persinger discovers these temporal lobe activities whereas researchers objectively assessing 
percipients find no such activities? Therefore, what other aspects of Persinger's theory appear 
dubious? 

|i) Space and Time 

This is one of the longest standing criticisms of Persinger’s theory. Rutkowski (1984) was 
concerned about the relationship between space and time that Persinger proposes, the 
Manitoba flap reported by Persinger and Derr(l 990) was calculated to be due to seismic activity 
700km away across the border into Minnesota(Rutkowski 1990). "In the case of the Manitoba 
UFOs, for example, why would the energy necessarily have to travel hundreds of kilometres 


17 

before jumping into the air, changing phase and eventually being seen as a glowing ball of 
light?" (Rutkowski 1990 p.l45). Then, it would still have to effect the percipient’s temporal 
lobe. 

Also Rutkowski( 1984) reported that these 'earthquake lights' have a very short life-span. This 
causes Persinger a few problems. According to Blackmore (1994) it took more than ten minutes 
of exposure before she began to feel a sensed presence. If, as reported, these earthquakes lights 
may only last a few seconds, how can they effect temporal lobe structures long enough for an 
abduction-type experience to occur? If there is no earthquake lights there is no 
electromagnetism to affect the percipient yet such scenarios still produce abduction accounts! 
there is not always a UFO involved in an abduction account, so how does Persinger explain 
these cases? 

(ii| Sampling techniques 

Whilst reading through the bulk of Persinger's work, it became apparent that his samples of 
individuals were usually rather small in number and consist of a 'normal population'. He has 
never assessed individuals who believe they had experienced an alien abduction. How can he 
base a theory around a sample population who have never reported an experience? This 
appears to make no sense. A good analogy would be that an individual enters a hospital with a 
broken arm. Asked how it happened, they may reply 'I fell over playing football.' Using the 
approach that Persinger employs, the nurse would then believe ^ broken arms occur because 
the individual fell over. This conclusion would be drawn without actually assessing other 
people who have broken arms . This example appears absurd but this is essentially what 
Persinger had done. 

(hi) Correlational "Evidence" 

Correlations do not equate with causality. This sentence appears to have been partially ignored 
by Persinger. His largest correlations between UFO reports and seismic activity approach 
r = +0.7. This is still less than 50% of the variance accounted for. Many correlations hover 
around the r = + 0.2 to 0.4 mark. This indicates that the relationship is rather weak in nature, 
with seismic activity accounting for rather little in the UFO enigma. Yet Persinger still 
advocates the effect vehemently. All of his research has dealt post hoc data with areas 
notoriously lying on fault lines (e.g. San Francisco) never being assessed! Rutkowski(1990) 
discussed the problems of post-hoc data analysis whilst Little(1987) challenged Persinger 
regarding how many non-significant correlational studies he had performed. Persinger has 
never prospectively predicted a UFO flap, but only nstrqspectively analysed UFO-abduction- 
seismic activity data. Theories are supposed to have some predictive power and Persinger has 
never attempted this. 

|iv| Omission of data and Gross's assessment 

Grosso( 1990b), reporting on a vision he was familiar with, discovered that Persinger's report of 
the same incident omitted sections of the data that did not fit into his theory. Grosso (1990a,b) 
asks has Persinger done this elsewhere? Grosso(1990) reassessed a vision of the Virgin Mary in 
Zeitoun, Egypt, which, according to Derr and Persinger (1989) was a result of seismic activity 
and temporal lobe stimulation. Grosso(1990) argues that if the effect was physical in nature as 
Derr and Persinger] 1989) posited, why did only a proportion of percipients report seeing the 
vision? this lead to the conclusion of "..(it) seems to me that Persinger's theory explains very 
little." (Grosso 1990, p.l40). 


(v) Data sets for UFOs 




18 

Rutkowski (1984,1990) noted that UFO figures Persinger has used could be up to 90% mis- 
identified and not unidentified. One particular source does admit to collapsing the two types 
into one. Therefore, a similar problem arises to that discussed in the previous chapter: 
Persinger is not dealing with true UFOs (and as noted before, people who believe that they have 
been abducted). Therefore, how can a theory and its 'empirical testing' not be conducted on the 
variables your theory is based upon? 

(vi| ^>ecific effects of stimulation 

Swords (1990a,b) contends that Persinger rarely references the specific effects of clinically 
stimulating temporal lobe structures. Swords also believes that it is not at all obvious that earth- 
produced, low-strength electromagnetic fields can influence any human brain to hallucinate. 
This is true. Persinger appears to believe that readers of his articles have prior assumptions 
regarding temporal lobe dysfunctions and therefore cites very little work relating to the 
mechanisms behind how and why it occurs. As a novice to the aspects of this area of 
neuropsychology it was rather annoying not to have any substantial evidence presented for the 
basis of Persinger's theory. Browsing through a variety of neuropsychological textbooks, 
temporal lobe epileptic traits do include hallucinations and perceptual distortions (Lezak 1976) 
but most believe that temporal lobe lability (instability) is a long term condition and is linked to 
psychiatric deviance(s) (e.g. Diamond 1980). This is not concurrent with percipients who only 
claim one experience and with those who exhibit any psychiatric deviance. This raises an 
ethical question which Persinger appears to have overlooked. As he uses 'normal populations' 
to test his theory, has he considered that his epileptic-type induction may precipitate future 
lability in the individual? Has Persinger assessed possible side effects of his experimental 
stimulation? 

Another related aspect which remains unreported from Persinger is the actual alien entity. 
Blackmore (1994) only reported feeling a presence but never described an actual figure. One of 
the common traits of an alleged alien abduction is the 'short grey entity with large black eyes,' 
(see Cassirer 1994, Nagaitis & Mantle 1994). Throughout his articles, Persinger has never 
reported that a participant saw anything! There is also another problem linked to the alien 
entities. Persinger believes that verbal labels prior to stimulation affects the overall outcome of 
the experience (Persinger 1976,1983c). However, verbal labels must surely be culture specific. 
Using myths and legends as an example, the cultural specificity is clearly defined via vast 
differences in text content, why are these entities therefore extremely similar in height, stature 
etc., when pre-verbal labels would most likely be different culture-by-culture? 

(vii) Ignorance of critics 

In order to develop (and defend) a theory it should be capable of surviving criticisms. One way 
in which Persinger has achieved this via ignorance of his critics. Whilst this allows more time 
to develop and extend a theory, it could nullify the entire theory by overlooking the flaws and 
irrationalities. 

A recent debate regarding Persinger's theory and Paul Devereux's "sister" theory of earthquake 
lights features in a new series of the Journal of UFO Studies. Critiques of both theories were 
presented and both authors were asked to respond and justify their theories. 

Devereux(1990) began his response- 

"Though I feel that none of the four response papers adequately deal with the depth and scope 
of the material Michael Persinger and I have presented, either here or in general, I will confine 
myself to brief comments on some of the points raised in them," (p.151) 


19 

The "points raised" that Devereux(1990) deals with include the criticisms already raised in this 
dissertation. In my belief, these criticisms are valid and justified and do deal with the depth 
and scope of material already published in this area. The arrogance of Devereux(1990) could be 
seen as a show of insecurity with his theory. 

Michael Persinger was congratulated because he had found unexpected time to produce a reply 
to the critiques. Why? If his theory could adequately explain the criticisms, the reply would 
have been "supersonic" to dispel the points raised against his theory. 

(viii) Aftereffects of experience 

In the previous chapter. The Omega Project (Ring & Rosing 1990) had reported varying 
psychophysical changes in percipients after their experience(s), mainly beneficial and endurmg. 
Grosso (1990) attacked Persinger's( 1988b) warning regarding the hazards of assessing UFO flaps 
and sites of alien abductions. Persinger( 1988b) believed that UFO field investigators that have 
intermittent close proximity to the electromagnetic fields produced by "UFOs" are at a very 
high risk of cancer, depression, tumours and leukaemia. This must therefore apply to 
percipients who believe they have had multiple experiences as they are exposed to the 
electromagnetic fields too. Persinger( 1988b) gave one piece of evidence from Portugal of three 
children who had proximal exposures, of which two died within three years of their exposure. 
Persinger overlooked the fact that vast numbers of field investigators and percipients who 
continually study and be studied, are perfectly healthy, physically and psychologically. 

Figure One shown previously in this chapter predicts that close encounter percipients should 
either be carbonized or die via electrocution. Evidence for close encounters are widespread and 
the percipients has to be alive to tell their experience, it would appear that Persinger's theory 
requires modifications. 

(ix) Laboratory abductions 

Although these are relatively new research projects for Michael Persinger they already have 
problems, the laboratory set up is very contrived. For a mock abduction to be initiated the 
room must be dimly lit, the percipient has to sit still with a specifically designed helmet on 
theory head and ping pong balls over their eyes. The curious part is that the percipient 
remembers everything and can report it almost immediately but cannot recall specific events as 
in "real" abduction scenario. Nagaitis and Mantle(1994) reviewed UK abduction cases and 
common themes emerged. These included sexual encounters, medical encounters and 
gynaecological encounters. Through his mock abduction scenario, Persinger does not receive 
reports of these types of encounters. In fact, if Blackmore's (1994) account is a a good example 
of a mock abduction, there is no reporting of anything in particular, only a sensation of an 
event. Persinger needs the type of evidence if there is any chance of his theory explaining alien 
abductions. 

The author attempted correspondence with Michael Persinger questioning how he generalizes 
his theory to field settings but did not receive a reply. 

A final criticism is that the "...tectonic strain is one of the least popular of all explanations of 
UFOs..." (Little 1987 p.203). If allowed, in my belief, alien abductions should be inserted at the 
end of this quote. Alas, however, Persinger's theory does have some benefits. 

Persinger should be commanded for teaching 'the art of perseverance.' He had adamantly stuck 
to his initial theory, expanding on it where relevant even in the face of adversity. 





20 

He has also highlighted the role of psychology within the domain of UFO/alien abduction 
research. As discussed in the previous chapter, it is only relatively recently that the percipient 
half of the UFO-percipient equation has been thoroughly studied. Persinger’s theory could 
account for a small proportion of experiences but UFO/abduction research by ufologists (UFO 
researchers) has long passed the 'lights in the sky' period and his theory appears only of use 
within the abduction domain. 

The neuropsychological information that Persinger has gathered could prove useful within the 
realm of temporal lobe lability and the effects that electromagnetism has on the human brain. 

CONTEMPORARY THOUGHT 

The author generated correspondence with notable UFO research groups and individuals 
worldwide plus psychologists who had either studied in this area or parapsychology in general, 
in an attempt to unravel what 'professionals' thought of both psychological theories discussed in 
this paper. 

Michael Soper, Chairman of Contact International (U.K) was annoyed that many scientists go 
around debunking (discrediting) UFO research even though they have not studied the area or 
visited witnesses. The Horizon programme (broadcast November 1994) about Persinger's 
theory and work was conducted "...rather like a survey of psychology which consults a single 
behaviourist and trashes everything else..." Michael Soper noted that Blackmore (1994) was 
told prior to her laboratory abduction what was going to happen. Blackmore had only just 
lambasted a hypnotic researcher for giving pre-hypnotic suggestion! A final point from Michael 
Soper regards Michael Persinger's theory. Why don't power station workers continually report 
UFOs/abduction who are exposed to electromagnetism? Within Contact's 80,000 cases of 
UFOs/abductions, only one case was in or around a power station. 

Malcolm Robinson, founder of Strange Phenomena Investigations, welcomed Persinger's work 
but ultimately believed UFO/abduction accounts to be real. "As for being a by-product of the 
human psyche, well partly yes, who knows...," therefore an open minded approach is evident. 

Tony Dodd, Director of Investigations at Quest International (U.K.) does not hold the temporal 
lobe theory too. this is because the UFO/abduction phenomena is worldwide with near 
identical stories regardless of race, religion or location. 

David Barclay, author and UFO specialist, believes that Persinger is "..flawed by the 
unwarranted assumption that its all in the mind." That is, he presumes a fundamental 
distinction between subjective and objective reality. 

Subjective reality does not necessarily indicate an objective nature for these experiences, a view 
shared by Barry Beyerstein of Simon Fraser University, British Columbia, Canada. 

Paul Norman, from the Victorian UFO Research Society, Australia believes that Persinger 
ignores several characteristics which are not concurrent with his theory. In short, he does not 
include those points which do not fit into his theory. 

Yuri Lozotsev, formerly of the Voronezh Joint Anomalous Phenomena Research Committee, 
Russia, was a man of much knowledge, and proud that a University Undergraduate was being 
allowed to explore this fascinating area. He believes that UFO percipients are normal and has 
this to say about Michael Persinger: "But, alas, the Tectonic Stress Theory as yet fails to explain 
the UFO phenomena as measuring a patients temperature to determine his intelligence 
quotient." 


include those points which do not fit into his theory. 


21 


Yuri Lozotsev, formerly of the Voronezh Joint Anomalous Phenomena Research Committee, 
Russia, was a man of much knowledge, and proud that a University Undergraduate was being 
allowed to explore this fascinating area. He believes that UFO percipients are normal and has 
this to say about Michael Persinger: "But, alas, the Tectonic Stress Theory as yet fails to explain 
the UFO phenomena as measuring a patients temperature to determine his intelligence 
quotient.". 

SUMMARY OF PERSINGER 

It appears from the assessment and contemporary thoughts regarding Persinger's overall theory, 
there is minimal support for his explanations of UFO/abduction experiences. Even 
Blackmore (1994) who underwent a laboratory abduction did not advocate his theory, especially 
concerning abduction cases that occur outdoors, not near any known areas of electromagnetism. 
Admittedly, his contrived laboratory abductions do not contain a lot of the information that 
abductees give of their experiences. However, his evidence is based upon non-abductees. 
Abductees should ideally be given a laboratory version and be allowed to compare experiences 
for similarities and differences, therefore Persinger’s theory cannot be discarded yet, although 
the evidence thus far is weak. If Jacobs (1994) is correct in stating that the 
geological/psychological communities have not accepted the respective aspects of Persinger's 
theory, then there appears little hope for him. 

*Craig Roberts , 54 Coach House Drive, Shevington, Wigan. Lancs. WN6 8AX 

N.B. Extensive Bibliography is omitted for reasons of space. Copies may be fc*varded if 

required. 


EARTHLIGHT HYPOTHESIS FLAWED: EARTHQUAKES, SUNSPOTS AND 

UFO'S. 

by M.C. SOPER 

INTRODUCTION: Check the chart opposite and you will see that when the sunspot cycle is 
divided into MINIMUM, ASCENT, PLATEAU, S DESCENT phases of length 1.8, 2.4, 2.4, 2.1, 
1.8 years each (based on the data from the Sunspot Index Data Centre in Belgiunrv. then the 
percentage in each phase are 5.4, 34.8, 11.9, 38, 9.9 percent of the 46 UFO waves so that UFO 
waves occur least in the minimum phase, and most in the rapid descent phase, with the ascent 
phase coming next in frequency count. 

The Russian scientist Viafonas Zeva in 1963 suggested that major Earthquakes appear to happen 
most often during the MINIMUM phase of the sunspot cycle, these two facts taken together 
indicate that the UFO waves are occurring most away from the phase when these Earthquakes 
do occur. 


MAIN DETAILS: We are currently near a sunspot minimum and within a few months we have 
heard of the tragic Japanese Earthquake at Kobe and nov/ on Sunday the 28th May we have the 
tragic events at Neftegorsk a Russian Island;- two large quakes. 


LARGE QUAKES: 


DATE 

PLACE 

PHASE 

1783 

CALABRIA 

MINIMUM 

1857 

NAPLES 

MINIMUM 

1891 

JAPAN 

MINIMUM 

1896 

HEREFORD 

MINIMUM 












22 


OCT 


1897 

INDIA 

MINIMUM 

1901 

INVERNESS 

MINIMUM 

1906 

ECUADOR 

MAXIMUM 

1952 

KAMCHATKA 

MINIMUM 

1957 

ANDREANOL 

MAXIMUM 

1960 

CHILE 

R DESCENT 

1963 

KURILE 

MINIMUM 

1964 

ALASKA 

MINIMUM 

1995 

KOBE, JAPAN 

N MINIMUM 

1995 

NEFTEGORSK 

N MINIMUM 


in addition to this data from 'Gutenberg and Richter' 1954 : "Seismicity of Earth and associated 
..." we have that the sunspot maxima of 1927 was correlated with a decrease of seismic activity 
to about half (50 compared with 98): of 14 large quakes 11 were minimum phase. 

THOUGHTS: Now for strata to emit Earthlights, which conceivably could happen the strata 
must be under strain, and must be composed of piezo-active crystals. Thus before a quake we 
would expect maximum strain; hence we are concerned with the minimum and the end of the 
SLOWDESCENT phase; however UFO waves occur with only 12% in the latter and 6.5% in the 
former, and thus are not occurring with any very significant correlation to these quakes: 
CEIII's CEIV's and CEII's are the events which the 'ETLE' likes to explain away (Earthlight 
strikes temporal lobe producing epileptic aura). However this fussy little hypothesis does not 
explain why power station workers (who are often exposed to inverse square, inverse fourth, 
switching plasmas and every other high electric field) do not constantly experience the ETLE for 
themselves; our files do not bear this out. 

MORE MATERIAL: Sometimes I have seen the claim that business confidence increases during 
sunspot maxima, and prewar in America there is some basis for this. We also have the 
Geological link of seismic activity with sunspot minima, and the empirical correlation of a 
changing sunspot situation with UFO waves. Is there any evidence that the decrease of 
prosperity during sunspot minima is due to the drain on resources caused by Earthquakes? No, 
not directly, though the question of when major meteorological floods occur in the cycle needs 
checking (the Mississippi region a disease disaster area is currently flooded also; perhaps these 
occur more often at these times. A check is required, clearly. 

FURTHER DIRECTION: When Earthlights are not hypothesised to explain the FOO fighters 
which formated with planes over the Pacific Ocean, and to explain Close Encounters, the idea is 
not inconceivable that a mechanism like this might work occasionally, or once. However the 
evidence given here which places UFO waves, which contain very many CEIII's and CEIV's at 
a different point of the Sunspot cycle from the greatest tectonic stress (according to the Russian 
geologists) does not support the hypothesis at all. Especially is this true in respect of the ETLE 
model. 


In reference to the graph overleaf: 

This indicates that: 

5.4 per cent were at Sunspot Minimum 

34.8 per cent were during the Sunspot ASCENT phase 

11.9 per cent were during the Sunspot Maximum phase 
38 per cent were during the sunspot DESCENT phase 

9.9 per cent were during the sunspot slow descent 


Examination of the Sunspot Curve (SIDC Belgium) will show that these phases are nearly equal. 


UFO WAVES AND SUNSPOTS CONTACT IN1EKNATIONAL ANALYSIS 


23 


The sunspot cycle which repeats every 10.5 years approximately has when averaged a curve 
with five phases: 

Here is a table of UFO wave countries by time and sunspot cycle: 


X- Wave in this phase 


Year 

COUNTRV(S> 

HININUH 

ASCENT 

PLATEAU 

RAPID 

DESCENT 

SLOM 

DESCENT 

1896 

US 




X 


1909 

GB 




X 


1913 

GB« NEH ZEALAND 




XX 


I93Z-4 

SCANDINAVIA 

. 5<X> 




. 5<X> 

1946 

GREECE, SCAND1NAV1 A 


XX 




1947 

USA 



X 



,1950 

N. AFRICA, SPAIN, USA 




XXX 


1952 

H. EUROPE, US 





XX 

1954 

FRANCE, N. AFRICA 

XX 





1955 

USA 


X 




1957 

BRAZIL, USA 



XX 



1958 

JAPAN 




X 


1959 

NEH GUINEA 




X 


1960 

NEH ZEALAND 



1 

X 


1962 

ARGENTINA, BRAZIL 





XX 

1964> 

5> 

AUSTRALIA, C. AFRICA 
CHILE, US, MEXICO 


XXX 

XX 




1966 

S. AFRICA, USSR 


XX 




1967 

USA 


X 




1968 

SPAIN, H. EUROPE 



XX 



1972 

C AND S. AFRICA 




XX 


1973 

USA, H. EUROPE 




X 


1978 

ITALY, NZ, KUHAIT 


XXX 




1981-3 

NORHAY 



. 5<X> 

. 5<X> 


1987-8 

GB 


X 




1988 

SPAIN 


X 




1989-91 

BELGIUM 




X 


1990 

USSR 




X 


1991 

MEX1 CO 




X 


1992 

MEXICO 






1994 

GB 




X 


WAVES IN EACH PHASE 

2. 5 

16 

5. 5 

17. 5 

4. 5 































































24 

In fact the five phases are 1.8, 2.4, 2.4, 2.1, 1.8 years thus the weights are 2.1/1.8, 2.1/2.4, 
2.1/2.4, 1, 2.1/1.8 giving 2.9, 14, 4.8, 17.5, 5.25 as the relative numbers in the phases 

corrected for slight differences in phase length: 

Now splitting up forty six UFO waves with these ratios gives 
3, 14.5, 5, 18, 5.5 in each phase 

A histogram is appended with the help of data from the Sunspit Index Data Centre (Circular 
Ave, B-1180 Brussels, Belgium) to whom many thanks. 


urn u siiNfSPnT phrsf HTKTnnnnH 



ASTRONOMICAL NOTES 

by G.E. Ambler 

The positions of the planets or stars creating UFO mis-identifications are recorded annually for 
the benefit of investigators. The most commonly mistaken planet is VENUS which is far 
brighter than any other planet or star and often low in the sky where it is viewed through layers 
of disturbed air on stormy days. An impression of movement may occur in these conditions. 

MARS, the red planet, has often been misreported and is prominent during the first half of 
1995. JUPITER is seen at some time in every year and usually very bright. Some of its 4 large 
moons can be observed through good binoculars serving as identification to the main planet. 

The planets will vary considerably in brightness and position from year to year but the stars 
behave consistently at all times, the brightest star is SIRIUS which rises below the constellation 
Orion and can be seen before midnight from November-March yearly. This star is very white 
and "twinkles" strongly. During the Summer of 1994 observations of a star believed to be 
ARCTURUS gave an impression of oscillating colour changes. Unusual effects maybe due to 
atmospheric conditions and should be carefully noted. 

The scale of brightness is expressed as MAGNITUDE. Without going into technical details the 
brightest objects in the sky have negative magnitude and the fainter objects positive magnitude. 
Thus we have Venus at >4.4 brightest, compared to Sirius at -1.47 and the Moon at -12.5. The 
sun is far brighter than anything else in the heavens and on the same scale is -26.5 magnitude. 


Below is a list of monthly movements including phases of the Moon and any prominent 
shooting stars. 


25 

JANUARY : It may be possible to see MERCURY near the setting sun to south west, 
mid-month. VENUS is brilliant (-4.4) on the 13th in eastern sky and rises up to 3 hours before 
the sun in the early hours. MARS is around for most of the night - magnitude -1. SATURN 
viewed in early evening but only +1 brightness. 

The New Moon is on Jan. 1st and the Full Moon on 16th. A second New Moon on 30th. Dark 
nights will be about lst-5th and 25th-31st. "Quadranatids" meteor showers on 2-4 January. 

FEBRUARY : VENUS seen to the east about 1.5-2 hours before sunrise. MARS at its 
brightest this month; -1.2 on 12th, around most of night. JUPITER seen in the early hours after 
02 : 00 . 

The Full Moon is Feb. 15th. Darkest nights will be approx. 4th-5th, 23rd-28th. 

MARCH : VENUS shows about an hour before sunrise to east, but difficult to see by end 
of month. No further observations until October. MARS still visible most of the night but 
brightness decreasing. JUPITER seen often after midnight for most of the month. 

The New Moon is on 1st and 31st March and the Full moon on 17th March. Darkest nights will 
be approx. 1-5 and 25-31. 

APRIL : MERCURY visible near setting sun after April 14th (-1 magnitude). MARS fades 
to +0.5 magnitude so will be unlikely to be picked out as a UFO. JUPITER continues to 
brighten now at -2.3 magnitude, now appearing before midnight. 

The New Moon is 29th April and Full Moon is 15th April, the darkest nights will be approx. 1- 
5th and 25th-30th. Lyrid meteorite showers 19-25th April. 

MAY : MERCURY visible as evening star to around May 12th. MARS seen in evening 
but now quite faint. JUPITER rising soon after dark will be only bright object on show for most 
of the night. SATURN appears in the early hours at magnitude +1.2 

The New Moon is 29th May and the Full Moon is 14th May. the darkest nights will be approx. 
l-5th and 25-31st. 

JUN E : MERCURY possibly seen as morning object towards rising sun. MARS visible to 
11 pm but now only +1,2 brightness. JUPITER is best this month; brightest on 1st, -2.6 
magnitude and visible most of night. SATURN is a morning object. 

The New Moon is 28th June and the Full Moon is 13th June. The darkest nights will be approx. 
l-4th and 25-30th. 

JULY : MARS seen in evening but at +1.3 magnitude so very faint. JUPITER is still 
bright at -2.4 and visible for most of the short nights. SATURN visible before midnight but 
+ 1.0 magnitude. 

The New Moon is 27th July and the Full moon is 12th July, the darkest nights will be approx. 
l-3rd and 23-30th. 

AUGUST : MARS now almost invisible. JUPITER seen for early part of the evening, 
little to be seen in the early hours. 

The New Moon is 26th August and Full Moon is 10th August. The darkest nights will be 
approx. l-2nd and 20-27th. Perseid meteor showers arrive 11-14th. These are usually best 
displays of the year. 

SEPTEMBER : No bright planets visible this month. JUPITER still bright but sets almost 
before sunset. SATURN is brightest on 14th at +0.7 magnitude and visible most of the night. 
The new Moon is 24th September and Full moon is 9th September, the darkest nights will be 
approx. 18-26th. 


























































26 


OCTOBER : MERCURY visible low to the SE from 5th. Rises 2 hours before sunrise by 
21st magnitude *1. VENUS very low to SW at sunset; just visible. JUPITER is at -1.8 magnitude 
but sets very soon after sunset. SATURN is visible to 02:00 

The New Moon is 24th October and Full Moon is 8th October. The darkest nights are approx. 
19-26th. 

A total eclipse of the Sun occurs on October 24th but only visible from Asia and Pacific Ocean 
in totality. A minor eclipse of the MOON occurs on October 8th, but ends at 18:00 so is likely 
to be unseen from British latitude. 

NOVEMBER : MERCURY visible low to the SE before dawn but only in first few days. 
VENUS now more prominent setting an hour after sun in SW. JUPITER sets quickly after sun. 
SATURN visible to midnight. 

The New Moon is 22nd November and Full Moon is 7th November, the darkest nights are 
approx. 17th-25th. 

DECEMBER : MERCURY now an evening object setting 1.5 hours after the Sun by the 
31st. Seen towards south west, but has positive magnitude. VENUS now strongly showing for 
nearly 3 hours after sunset by end of month with magnitude -4.0. Position towards west. 
SATURN visible to 22:00. 

The New Moon is 22nd December and Full Moon is 7th December, the darkest nights are 
approx. 18-25th. Geminids meteor showers seen between December 7th and 15th- Maximum 
14th 

Source : The Times - Night Sky 1995. 


LATEST SIGHTINGS NEWS 

Data Research 

The advent of a very hot Summer has brought about a big increase in reported sightings no 
doubt due to the numbers of potential witnesses sitting out in their gardens on sultry evenings 
instead of watching a ceaseless procession of videos! The late June heatwave accompanied by 
a NE wind gave about 5 nights of almost perfect viewing and it was claimed that the Space 
Shuttle and the Russian Mir station it was docked to could be seen at about 10:40 pm on 2 
nights passing over British airspace. This may have caused a frenzy of UFO reports is some 
areas. 

There is now a definite trend in reporting of red rectangles. At least 6 cases have emerged since 
February. Very similar reports of a line of 4 to 6 rectangles have been reported from the west 
of England on 16/2, 13/3 and 26/4 by independent witnesses. A very large single rectangle was 
seen around 1 am near Dorking, Surrey in May. A rectangular amber coloured light in a 
vertical line was seen by 5 witnesses in a car between Solihull and Lichfield close to the M42 on 
July 4th. The object was not moving. The latest case reported is from a 12 year old girl who 
saw a large red rectangle hovering over a farm near Bicester, Oxon on July 6th at 9 pm. More 
details in our next edition. 

Crop circles are arriving in large numbers but mainly confined to North Hampshire and Sussex, 
there are very few near Avebury as at this date (26/7) and other counties seem to be quiet 
compared to 1994. 


A DOSSIER OF GREEK UFOLOGY (PART II) 


27 


THE THESSALONIKI EARTHQUAKE OF 1978 

By Omiros Karajas, summarised by Brian James 

Among the reports from Omiros Karajas, of UPIT, was the following account - the major 
earthquake of 20 Jun. 1978. While it isn't at first an obvious UFO event, there are reports of 
lights that may be significant in terms of the research into 'earthlights', and there were some 
very curious preliminary occurrences. 

During May of 1978 the whole area around Thessaloniki was subjected to many minor 
tremors and quakes, centered on Lake Volvi, about 20km away, and this was naturally 
causing considerable panic. On 25th May a quake of 5.7R (Richter scale) was felt, causing 
considerable damage, and this was followed on the 3rd June by another 5.0R quake, causing 
further damage and widespread fear that the end was near for the town. A further 4.5R quake 
struck on 12th June, and this time the authorities assured the people that it was an aftershock, 
and was not serious. 

It was from the 12th June that strange things started to occur. Many people still in the region 
of Lake Volvi reported underground noises, and that the surface of the lake also shook 
without obvious cause. A taxi driver from Langada was asked to take an old woman, dressed 
all in black, to the Panorama area. The driver asked the woman if she had any baggage, and 
she said no, so he took her on the journey. When they arrived, the old woman then asked for 
her bags, and out of curiosity the driver opened the boot of his car, and there he found a big 
trunk. He opened the trunk, and saw it was divided into two parts, one contained wheat, and 
the other drying blood. The old woman then said "All Salonika will be destroyed on 19th 
June", then just disappeared. In a separate incident, a lorry driver stopped to give a lift to a 
75-80 year old man, dressed in black, who wanted to go to Langada. While traveling, the old 
man turned to the driver and said "Salonika, my boy, will be destroyed on 19th June", and 
then vanished. There were other reports of an old man, dressed in black, that visited many 
homes in Langada, again warning of the destruction of Thessaloniki on 19th June. 

At about noon on 19th June a strong quake hit Thessaloniki, leaving the residents waiting for 
the final quake - this finally came at 23.04hrs on 20th June, with a force in excess of 6.5R, 
and for 16 seconds all hell almost literally broke loose. 

• Just preceding the quake, people on the streets witnessed a very sudden strong wind that 
whipped up dust, then the quake struck, people fell to the ground, and some reported 
seeing 8 storey buildings on opposite sides of the street apparently touch as the ground 
twisted. 

• Many witnesses felt a strong dizziness while they were on the ground. While the ground 
was heaving, streetlights were felled, yet a curious point is that despite power lines being 
ripped apart, lights were observed to remain on for several seconds - suggesting a strong 
electric field emanating from the quake itself, and many people reported an ionization of 
the air. 

• In the northeast part of the town, the quake was preceded by a strong blue light, that lit up 
the area as if daylight, and this light lasted for 16 seconds. Electrical supplies then failed. 

• The centre of the quake was at Lake Volvi, and naturally the situation was very bad. 
Many people heard noises before the quake, and a very thick cloud was seen over the 
lake, with 'thunderbolts' between them. Later on, Omiros learned that 5 large blue objects 
were seen, twice the size of the full moon, and may other smaller lights were seen. 

• Two geology students in separate locations reported that strange 'lightning' occurred 
during the quake. 

















28 


• Two hours after the quake, all of the people were out of what was left of their homes, and 
many people, including UPIT investigators, saw a grey circular object pass over the town 
towards Lake Volvi, its size was like the full moon. There were also many reports of blue 
spheres over the town. 

• On 4th July, another series of 3 quakes hit the area, but during the night a strange 'star' 
hovered over the town for 5 hours before moving towards Lake Volvi. 

• On 14th September a 'fire object' was seen over Thessaloniki. 

• On 16th September a triangular object with a zig-zag motion was seen for a few seconds 
over the town during an eclipse of the moon. 

Omiros himself was left homeless, and had to live in a tent for 3 months, so understandably it 
was some time before he, and other members of UPIT were able to gather all the data. It was 
then that another curious report came to light, as after the quake, one army camp reported an 
object about 200m above the ground, having no noise, and being of a lantern blue in colour. 
It remained over the camp for about an hour, before the light went out and it disappeared. At 
the time, among the confusion, it was assumed it was an aircraft involved in rescue 
operations, another similar light appeared a few nights later. 

During 1980 Omiros was able to correspond, and eventually meet with Dr. Bill Papazahos, a 
Greek seismologist with worldwide respect in his field, being a doctor of geophysics. Omiros 
wanted to know if the various lights seen during, and after, the earthquake, were connected 
with the seismic activity, or were the result of something else. Dr.Papazahos stated that the 
phenomena of'earthlights' was unknown to him, and that it was still unexplained by science. 
Dr Papazahos also stated that the necessary recording devices were not available at the time 
of the event, so the mass of potential data was lost to science. 

• / think you will a^ree that considering what was happening at the time, we have some 
remarkably dear accounts of various lights seen during, and after the earthquake. The 
seismic activity would certainly seem likely to generate energies that could create what we 
call earthlights, which are themselves still little understood. While I feel that some of the 
lights could have been earthlights, I am far from convinced that such a phenomenon would 
remain stationary for several hours as some reports state - natural phenomena vety rarely 
lack any motion, the Earth, and its atmosphere is dynamic. Some researchers have put 
forward the theory that earthlights explain nearly all UFO sightings, but here we have first¬ 
hand evidence that major seismic activity may be required to generate such earthlights - 
whatever physical mechanism is operating to create, and maintain them. I find it hard to 
accept that earthlights can be regularly produced in areas of low seismic activity, and surely 
some highly active seismic regions of the world should be producing vast numbers of reports? 

• 


Spring: 1978 - Didimoticho: Shortly before sunset, an object reflecting sunlight was seen 
moving from northwest to southeast. After the sun had set, an large metallic craft was still 
visible, viewed through 12x40 binoculars, and it was clearly a cigar shape, with no windows, 
and it left no trail, moving at a slow speed. During the sighting, an airliner passed below the 
object in the opposite direction, and was at least three times smaller. The object disappeared 
when it flew into a small cloud. 


29 


May: 1978 - Athens: A UFO was seen from the balcony of a 
house, the weather was good and the sky clear. The object was 
the apparent size of a notebook, and was a uniform greyAjlue 
colour all over, except for a red light source underneath. The 
witness estimated that the object was over 1km away. It moved 
slowly across the sky in strange 'spasmodic' movements, and 
was in sight for about 5 minutes. 


Jul:1978 - Peloponnisos: A 12 year old boy was on his 
bicycle near the beach at midnight, when a strong yellow- 
white light appeared about 50m away through a grove of 
lemon trees. The object was like an upturned saucer, and 
was about 5m above the ground. The witness was very 
afraid and left the scene as fast as possible. 

*UPIT were concerned about the authenticity of this 
report, doubting whether a 12 year old would be out at 
that time of night, but when interviewed he seemed mature 
for his age and was sincere. * 

16:Sep:1978 - Thessaloniki: A strange luminous object was seen in the night sky. 
Astronomers claimed it was a rocket re-entry, but witnesses deny this explanation. 

16:Scp:1978 - Thessaloniki: Omisros Karajas was taking photos of the moon during its 
eclipse. Omiros saw an aircraft flying into the airport, and he took his 8x30 binoculars to 
watch it. He then noticed a very dark object flying alongside the plane. The object was 
triangular, and it made very rapid horizontal and vertical movements, also hovering on 
occasions, the object was so dark in colour that Omiros could not take a photo, and all of the 
sighting was observed through his binoculars. 

26:Oct:1978 - Paphos, Cyprus: The witness - Cristofis Charalampous - was driving into 
town from the village of Tremithousa, with his wife also in the car. He noticed a strange light 
moving in the opposite direction, and stopped the car to watch, and was observing the object 
for 9 minutes until his wife urged him to leave, in this time the object closed from about 2km 
to only 500m away. The object was a bright ball, emitting red, yellow and blue rays. 

26:Oct:1978 - Athens: Two teenage brothers saw a big luminous object in the clear sky at 
about 19.20hrs, it was white-yellow in colour, and had an ellipsoid shape, moving from south 
to north at high speed. After 30 seconds it just 'turned off. Its speed was estimated to be 
faster than Mirage jet aircraft that were common in the skies. One of the witnesses reported 
another smaller object after another 30 seconds, moving at the same speed and direction as 
the first, leaving a tail before 'blowing up' into 4 or 5 pieces. 

l:Jul:1979 - Thessaloniki: A strange UFO was seen over the city just before midnight. It 
was a cone shape, which turned on itself, emitting bright light. It disappeared before re¬ 
appearing again 10 minutes later, finally leaving to the south with a luminous tail. 

ll:Jul:1979 - Niepo, Thessaloniki: Anastasia Hadsikosima was awake at 03.30hrs, having 
been disturbed by her dogs crying, causing her to fear an earthquake was imminent. Her 
attention was drawn to a very bright circular light in the western sky. The witness thought 
the object was about 300m above the ground. The light moved, then disappeared at high 
speed. 













30 

17:Nov:1978 - Kaphos, Cyprus: Georgiou George was on duty at the hotel Theophono at 
02.30hrs, when he heard a 'sound like a transmitter' from outside, so he went out to 
investigate. He saw an object in the clear sky, it was a dark saucer-shaped object, with a 
green luminescence on its rim, which was about 1km away. The witness was scared, and ran 
inside to phone the police, but the phone system in the hotel was inoperative. 


27:Nov:1978 - Paphos, Cyprus: Ntinos Hadjimitsis, a farmer, 
was outside in his fields ploughing at about 03.00hrs, when, in a 
clear sky, he noticed a red disk-shaped object hovering above a 
tree about 100m away. The witness stopped his tractor and 
watched the object for 10 minutes. The object had a small 
dome, and there were small 'portholes' in its lower hull, emitting 
rays of light. Initially the witness thought it to be a helicopter, 
but as he was watching it, it gained speed and disappeared fast 
to the east 



Dec: 1978 - Oresmada: The night sky was bright due to the 
moon, and at about 21.00hrs the witnesses, traveling in a car, 
saw in front of them, just above the horizon, an object shaped 
like a huge 'Z'. The object seemed to be comprised of a blood- 
red point of light moving at very high speed, forming the 'Z' 
shape, but the outline of the 'Z' seemed to be opaque and 
surrounded by a transparent 'fog'. The path of the UFO was 
over mainland Turkey. 


20: Dec: 1978 - Paphos, Cyprus: Mr. Yiannakis lounnou, a 
merchant, was traveling with his wife in his car between Paphos 
and Limassol at 05. lOhrs. His attention was grabbed by a very 
bright UFO in the sky, being so bright it would have been 
impossible not to notice it The object was rectangular, about 
the size of a large car, and it seemed to be expanding while 
emitting bright orange rays of light. The object was in view for 
about 30 minutes while the lounnou's continued their journey, 
though the witness’s wife wanted him to stop. It was lost to 
sight as they continued their journey. 


22:Dcc:1978 - Aegaleo: During the evening, between 
20.30hrs and 21.00hrs, in a sky with some clouds, and object 
was seen above the horizon. It comprised of one large light, 
surrounded by 8 smaller lights in a sort of halo. The object 
moved to the west, then stopped and reversed its course. Then 
it moved north, disappearing after a few minutes. During this 
time, some of the outer lights went out, but all the outer lights 
were on at the time of the object's departure. The sighting 
lasted between 30 and 45 minutes. 





TO BE CONTINUED IN FUTURE EDITIONS 


INTRODUCTION TO UFOs 

AND THE WORLD OF UFOLOGY 

By Margaret Fry 


CONTACT INTERNATIONAL UK 
OFFICIAL INVESTIGATOR & 
CO-ORDINATOR FOR WALES & 
FOUNDER MEMBER WITH GARY 
ROWE 
OF 

WALES FEDERATION OF 
INDEPENDENT UFOLOGISTS 

A4 BOOKLET £3 +50p P + P. VALUABLE 
INFORMATION FOR NEW RESEARCHERS. 

UFO BADGES - METALLIC OVAL BADGE 
WITH 'UFO WORLD FELLOWSHIP' 
SURROUNDING UFO. -£2.50 + 25pP + P 


CONTACT INTERNATIONAL MEETINGS : 
Data Research meet weekly at homes of 
members, mostly on Wednesdays. Ring Mike 
Soper on Oxford 726908 for details of next 
venue. 


EXPAND YOUR SENSORY POWERS 

THE ONLY COURSE OF THIS TYPE IN BRITAIN 
Full money back guarantee when not satisfied. 

Follow the instructions in the books you receive each month and by the completion of the course of twelve you 
have discovered and have the use of extra senses that most are not capable of; success by the end of the course or 
refund, naturally. 

DETECT what your friends cannot detect 
SENSE what your friends cannot sense 

Send £4.99 for the first item in the course to: 

PFTN RESEARCH 11 Ouseley Close, New Marston, Oxford. 0X3 OJS or ring -01865 726908 (cheques payable to 
PFTNI 


UFO NEWSCLIPPINGS SERVICE: Probably the best regular service there is on UFOs, Bigfoot, 
and related topics. Up to date reports on a world wide basis and foreign press reports in 
translated form. A must for every serious ufologist. Each month subscriptions receive a 20 
page report produced from photo-offset. For subscription details and sample pages from our 
immaculate service, write today sending S.A.E. to: UFO NEWCLIPPINGS SERVICE. Route 1, 
Box 200 Plumerville, Arkansas, 721127, USA. 


Midnight Books 


SPECIAUSTS IN SECONDHAND HOOKS ON THE UNEXPlJilNED 



WE AT MIDNIGHT BOOKS pride ourselves in our firsi class service in providing 
(op quality secondhand books by mail order on all aspects of the unexplained. Our 
quarterly 40 page catalogue contains a wealth of out of print and rare books and - if the 
book you want is not in (he catalogue • wc will try to find it for you. We wrap all our 
parcels carefully, so that the books arrive with you as they leave us. Since 1989 wc 
have sent out over 3,000 parcels of books and have hundreds of very satisfied custom¬ 
ers. So. if you are looking for books on subjects such as UFOs, ghosts, forteana. 
cryptoioology, paranonnal, strange people, folklore, myths, legends, archaeology etc, 
(hen we are the ones for you. 

To receive our latest book catalogue, simply send four first class stamps (or if ovcrsca.s. 
two International Reply Coupons) to: 

Midnight Hooks 
Frances and Steven Shipp 
The Mount .AscertonRoad 
Sidmouth, Devon, EX 10 9BT 
England 


QVAUTV BOOKS - (E si. 19119) - QVAUTYSEKVICF 


UFO AND SPACE AGE PUBLICATIONS : 

Full list of books and magazines available for S.A.E.. 

Please write to: Ms. S.R. Stebbing, 41 Terminus Drive, Beltinge, HERNE BAY, Kent. CT6 6PR 











































32 


NEW STOCK 

Issued end-March 1995 Revised April. 
Paperbacks and Softcover books 


Tel; 081-979 3148 

Temporary 

announcement 



LIONEL BEER 

(SPACELINK BOOKS) 

115 Hollybush Lane 
HAMPTON 
Middlesex 
TW12 2QY 


DI1!ENSI0NS-A Casebook for Alien Contact by Jacques Vallee. 1988 .Index.Rec. 315 
EXTRA-TERRESTRIALS AMONG US by George Andrews.FP.1986. Illus.ET motives. 350 
PROM OUT OF The BLUE by Jenny Randles. 1991. 1980 "SKY CRASH" case update.102 
INTRUDERS by Budd Hopkins. 1987. Abduction cases from noted researchers. 330 
MISSING TIME by Budd Hopkins. 1981. Earlier abduction reports from USA. 260 
The ROSWELL INCIDENT by Charles Berlitz & Wm.Moore. FP.1980. UFO crash. 188 
The TRUTH ABOUT THE UFO CRASH AT ROSWELL by K.Randle f. D.Schmitt. 1994. 320 
The WATCHERS by Raymond Fowler. FP.1990. Abduction cases. Index. Illus. 410 
EMBRYOGENESIS by Richard Grossinger.1986. Origins of human hiology.Index. 440 
The HARMONIC CONQUEST OF SPACE by Bruce Cathie. 1994. Diagrams, Index. 190 
UFOS AMONG THE STARS by Timothy Beck ley Green. Famous peoples’ sightings. HO 

ENCHANTED LAND by Janet & Colin Bord. 1995. Legends of UK’s landscap.Ills.170 
WHEN TIME BEGAN by Zecharia Sitchin. 1993. Book 5 of Earth Chronicles. 410 
Hardbacks (various sizes) 

ALIENS The Real Story by Jenny Randles. 1993.History of contacts. Index. 190 
PIECE FOR A JIG-SAW by Leonard Cramp. 1966/1967 edns. V.w.iIlus.(ageing) 388 


PBS. 

£4 . 

.75 

pgs. 

E4. 

.75 

pgs. 

E4. 

.70 

pgs. 

E5, 

.50 

pgs. 

E4, 

.75 

pgs. 

E4, 

.35 

pgs. 

E5, 

.75 

pg**. 

£5. 

,90 

pgs. 

E12, 

.00 

pgs. 

ElO 

.50 

pgs. 

E9, 

.20 

pgs. 

ER, 

.45 

pgs. 

£5 

.75 


pgs. 

£16, 

.00 

pgs. 

ElO, 

.00 


PROJECT UFO by W.A.Harbinson. 1995. Man-made mysterious aerial craft.Index.290pgs. E18.40 


UFO-The Complete Sightings Catalogue by Peter Brookesmith. 1995.W.ill us. 176. prs.E18.40 
A SECRET PROPERTY by Ralph Noyes. 1985. UFO fiction by ex-MOD official. 186 pgs. E5.00 
SECRET LIFE by Dr.David Jacobs. 1992. UFO abductions,genetic testing? (Brgn )336pgs. ElO.OO 

Videos 

Please ask for list up-date. 

MASTERS OF THE STARS (c) 1994-Genesis III. UFOs over Mexico Cityl 70 minutes. E20.70 
Mote Softcover Books 

" ABDUCTION by John Mack .Encounters with a liens. 1994. 440 pgs. E6.80 

The BRIDGE TO INFINiTy - HARMONIC 371244 by Bruce Cathie. 1989.Diagrams. 205 pgs. El 1.65 

TIME TRAVEL by Jenny Randles. 1994. Fact,fiction & speculation. 16 plates.204 pgs. E9.80 


The WARMINSTER TRIANGLE by Ken Rogers. 1994. First-hand account of Warminster’s 

UFO reports and West Country anomalies. Over-priced but recommended. 212 pgs. E12.50 

The WORLD’S GREATEST UFO MYSTERIES by R.Boar A N.Blundell. Bargain. Illus.190 pgs. El.45 
PASSPORT TO MAGONIA by Jacques Vallee. 1993 edn,with sightings list. (3R0p. E9.50 
NIKOLA TESLA - FREE ENERGY and the WHITE DOVE - Commander X. 1992. Illus. 144 pgs. E9.00 

The ULTIMATE DECEPTION - Commander X. 1990. Government conspiracy in USA. 126 pgs. E9.00 
SUBTERRANEAN WORLDS - INSIDE EARIll - Timothy Green Beck ley. 1992. Illus. HR pgs. E9.00 
UNDERGROUND ALIEN BASES - Commander X. 1990. Strange claims. Illus. 12 6 pgs. E9.00 
The COMPLETE BOOK OF UFOs by Peter Hough & Jenny Randles. Index. Illus. 30^ pgs. E13.50 
MAN-MADE UFOS, 1944-1994. by Renato Vesco & D.H.ChiIdress.1994. Illus. 440 pgs. E18.50 


All PflK^ES INCLUDE POSTAGE AND PACKING; Please send pnymeni with order. Cheques and British Postal Orders should be made payable 
to Lionet Beer. USA dollar checks and dollar money orders are not acceptable - sorry! Foreign currency notes are accepted at tourist exchange rates; 
please allow Cl .00 lor bank commission. International registration or insurance is an optional extra at C2.50 and sometimes speeds delivery. 
SAVE POSTAOEI Books may be collected at London meetings of BUFORA or from Hampton Village Antiques. 76 Station Ftond, Hampton. Middlesex. 
Foreign cuatomeri are asked to add 10% to the above prices to cover higher postage prices. 


33 



Unmanned satellites have in our recent past, sent photographs back to 
Earth that have corrected and changed much of our understanding of the 
solar system in which we live. Indeed it has only been through 
advancements in technology which led to a greater understanding of 
astronomy that we were able to discover Uranus in 1781, Neptune in 1846 
and Pluto in 1930. And more recently, NASA has realized that deviations 
in the movements of Uranus and Neptune, have convinced it of the 
existence of an "outer solar system body of 4 to 8 Earth masses, lying 
beyond 7 billion miles from the Sun." Nasa is so sure of this planet, 
that they now conclude that our solar system has 10 planets, or rather 
a solar system with 12 members, when our Moon and the Sun are included. 
This raises a startling question, when we examine the photograph of the 
clay tablet shown above, which clearly depicts a solar system of 12 
members, each represented in their true scale. Dated to nearly 5,000 
years old, it was excavated over 100 years ago with thousands of other 
tablets dating back to Earths first civilization, a country which we 
called Sumer, todays modern Iraq. 

Sumerian cosmology, their science, and the 12th member Nasa is now 
seeking, have been the life times study of archaeologist and author 
Zecharia Sitchin. Sumerian medicine used the symbol of two snakes 
entwined, one that is still used by medical corps today. Yet as a 
pictorial symbol it is the most simplest and exact description of the 
microscopic double helix structure of D.N.A. The precursor to all plant 
and animal life for which we have only recently been able to understand 
and identify. So successful have been the 10 million copies sold of Mr 
Sitchin's books, that an incredible video film has been made, based on 
his book "Genesis Revisited". This film "ARE WE ALONE", which cost over 
a million dollars in its making, explains in beautiful detail who gave 
our first civilization this knowledge, and clarifies the writings of 
our bible, to leave no doubt that not only does E.T. life exist but it 
has co-existed with us from our very beginning. This is fact, not 

fiction, and the 3,000 year old battery cell, and the flywheel that was 
found in a pyramid, are small evidence compared to the scientific 
documents that abound in their thousands. If you have ever been 

troubled with the questions of mans origins, debating between a 

religious conscience that is baffled with the logic of D.N.A. 
evolution to the theories of a biological evolution confounded by 

spiritual incidents, your answer can now be found in the clear and 
scientific explanations Sitchin has made of the Sumerian’s story of 
creation, that was copied, and recopied, and changed numerous times with 
translation before it eventually arrived in our Bible. The books and 
video explaining this are offered from: 


ANKI INTERNATIONAL 

13 Greenland Close, Tarporley, Cheshire (CW6 ODA), England, U.K. 


Film - "ARE WE ALONE" VMS pal is offered at ^16.99 plus 89 pence p&p. 
"The 12th Planet" Hardback valued at £17.99 plus £l.90 p&p. 

"Genesis Revisited" Hardback valued at £16.99 plus £1.90 p&p. 
















For a bit of light hearted 
relief, and to check your 
UFO knowledge, have a 
go at this anagram! 

The Rules: 

Pie anagram may be a single word, 
phrase or name, bia it will always be 
connected with Ufology in some way. 

Last issue's answer: 

POWER CUT 


Sightings involving motor vehicles or 
people at home often feature disruption 
or complete loss of electrical power 
during the event 


UFO DIAL 



Publ ished by Contact Internatioiial U.K 


3 0 1 ^ ‘:>0 3 . br ook . 


E * tU j 1 : 


ac . uk 











