THE BOUGAINVILLE REBELLION, THE MINING 
INDUSTRY AND THE PROCESS OF SOCIAL 
DISINTEGRATION IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA 



Colin Filer 



On 25 November 1988 militant landowners under the leadership of Francis Ona 
embarked on a campaign of sabotage against the installations of the Panguna 
copper mine, operated by Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL) in the North 
Solomons Province of Papua New Guinea. In March 1989, the Papua New 
Guinea government despatched troops to the province in a vain effort to subdue 
the militants. The frequency of armed clashes between the militants and the 
security forces increased to the point at which a protest against the mining 
company had become an act of rebellion against the authority of the state. On IS 
May BCL ceased its mining operations amidst a fresh outburst of attacks on its 

the efforts of various state, church and community organizations to negotiate a 
peaceful solution to the crisis, the violence has continued, the mine has remained 
shut, and Papua New Guincans are learning to live with the consequences. As 
1989 moved to a close, the rebels showed no sign of abandoning their demands 
for removal of the security forces, Bougainvillean secession from Papua New 
Guinea, and an astronomical payment of ten billion kina as compensation for 
environmental damage caused by past mining operations. The new year had 
hardly begun when the national government announced an all-out effort to crush 
the rebellion, but within a matter of weeks all government forces had been 
withdrawn from the province under the pretext of a 'ceasefire* which looked more 
like a concession of defeat. 

The forced closure of the Panguna mine and the virtual secession of the 
North Solomons has been by far the most serious political and economic crisis in 
the fourteen years of Papua New Guinea's independence, 

This paper deals with one particular aspect of the Bougainville rebellion, the 
social aspect, and especially with its social origins, which are at risk of being lost 
to view beneath a spreading cloud of agonizing rhetoric. It also addresses the 
question of whether and how this sort of crisis might recur in relationships 
between local communities and mining companies in respect of those other major 
projects (Ok Tcdi, Porgera, Lihir, et cetera) which are now expected to make an 
even greater contribution to the national economy, and government revenues, I 
suggest that the social origins of the Bougainville rebellion do not warrant the 
optimism displayed by the mining industry on this score. 



Canberra Anthropology 13(1) 1990:1-39 



2 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



SPECIAL EVENTS AND GENERAL TENDENCIES 

It is widely believed, both inside and outside the mining industry, that the 
Bougainville crisis is a unique phenomenon whose origins are to be found in the 
political relationship between the copper mining project and emergent 
nationalist/secessionist sentiment on Bougainville in the late colonial period. It is 
recognized that landowner strikes' against all sorts of capital, not just mining 
capital, have become a national institution since independence, that they am often, 
if not always, violent, and that the state does not possess the will or the capacity to 
seriously limit their occurrence. But when they do occur, they normally run out of 
steam within a week or so, contained by the appearance of a politican or a riot 
squad, a social worker or a man of God, When the 'rambo rebels' of Panguna 
started on their demolition job in November 19 88 many people clearly thought the 
normal methods of containment would suffice to solve the problem. When these 
methods clearly failed to work, many people thought the reason lay with the 
peculiarity of Bougainville and all things Bougainvillean. 

There are two main arguments behind the idea that Bougainvilleans possess 
a very special feeling of hatred for the mining company in their midst. The first 
argument is that Bougainvilleans in general, and the Nasioi language group in 
particular, already shared a special set of grievances against the colonial 
administration before they ever heard of BCL, The second argument is that the 
mining project was imposed upon them, against their will, by that same colonial 
administration, thus massively aggravating the sense of injustice which already 
existed. 1 

There is no denying the element of truth contained in these arguments, but I 
do not think they are sufficient in themselves to account for the origins and 
dimensions of the present crisis. The story of what happened in the decade 
between the discovery of the Panguna copper deposit in 1964, the renegotiation of 
the Bougainville Copper Agreement in 1974, and the celebrated declaration of 
North Solomons Independence' in 1975, has long since become an article of 
national and provincial mythology. 2 But time has not stood still for the last fifteen 
years. There is another story to be told about the more recent development of 
relationships between the mining company, the local villagers, provincial 
politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen. By this I do not mean the story of who 
did (or did not do) what when the Bougainville Copper Agreement came up for 
renegotiation in 1981 , 3 but a story of social change in which individual leaders are 
not called upon to play the role of heroes or demons, and which is therefore not 
the sort of story which becomes a myth. I wish to argue that this story of social 
change contains some vital ingredients of the current problem and some serious 
obstacles to a lasting solution. What is more, this story does not seem to me to be 
uniquely Bougainvillean. On the contrary, it is a warning of the impact which a 



COLIN FILER 3 



major mining project might well have on any other province in the country, once it 
has been operating on a certain scale for a sufficient period of time. 

Let me put forward a fairly simple hypothesis: mines in almost any part of 
Papua New Guinea will generate the same volatile mixture of grievances and 
frustrations within the landowning community, and, all other things being equal, 



a major detonation of the time bomb after mining operations have continued for 
approximately fifteen years. Let me now immediately qualify this hypothesis by 
saying that all other things are not equal, and so one cannot simply predict that 
recent batdes around the Panguna mine will be repeated in the vicinity of Tabubil, 
Misima, Porgera, and so forth. In other words, I suggest that there is a general 
tendency for mining projects to have a negative, and potentially explosive, social 
impact on landowning communities, but there are many contingent factors - 
political and economic, historical and geographical - which affect the operation of 
this tendency in particular cases. 

To give but one example: the lessons of the present crisis and its future 
resolution will be learnt, in one way or another, by other landowning communities 
and by those government and company agencies responsible for dealing with 
them. One might even hope that this learning process will reduce the risks of 
further violence, although my own optimism on this score is limited by my belief 
that the problems to be dealt with are intractable, perhaps insoluble, within the 
system as it stands, and by my doubts that those involved will leam their lessons 



There is more room for optimism on a second count, Panguna is perhaps 
unique, at least it is unusual, not because Bougainvillcans think of themselves as a 
race apart nor because they have special memories of colonial oppression, but 
because of some simple geographical facts which affect the crusading abilities of 
militant landowners. The Panguna mine occupies a central location within the 
North Solomons Province. It is not tucked away in some remote and inaccessible 
corner, like Ok Tedi, nor on a small offshore island, like Misima or Lihir. And 
yet, despite its visibility, the Panguna mine is in a physical location which is 
almost perfect for the conduct of an armed insurgency. And largely because of its 
inland setting and its method of waste disposal, the community of potential 
insurgents is unusually large. The four mining leases, stretching across from 
Rorovana to the mouth of the Jaba River, contain a significant proportion of the 
provincial population. Taken together, these factors have greatly increased the 
vulnerability of the project, But if we deduce from this that disaffected 
landowners will not have the same capacity to shut down other mining projects for 
long periods of time, we should not therefore assume that they will not make the 
attempt. 



4 CA2NTJERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 




CO ON FILER 5 



The argument I have just outlined contains two crucial steps which may still 
seem mysterious, if not downright contentious. These are: 

1. the implication that ethnic loyalties and conflicts have been no more significant 
in the genesis of the present Bougainville crisis than they have been, and will 
continue to be, in the development of landowner-company relationships in 
other parts of the country; and 

2. my reference to the landowning communities which develop in relationship to 
mining companies as 'social time-bombs' - a phrase which Sir Julius Chan 
applied to Lihir back in 1986, 4 and which seems even more appropriate today 
in view of what has happened at Panguna. 

In order to pursue my chosen hypothesis, 1 shall now argue that there are two 
myths which prevent us from understanding the implications of the Panguna crisis 
for company-community relationships in other mining projects in this country. 
One is the myth of Bougainvillean nationalism', the other is the myth of Melanesian 
communism. I shall discuss each of them in turn. I shall then present a model of 
the process of local social disintegration, which is partly based on the evidence of 
what happened at Panguna but whose elements are not unique to the Panguna 
project. By way of conclusion, I shall make a few remarks about the ability of 
'the mining industry' to deal with the realities behind these myths. 

THE MYTH OF BOUGAINVILLEAN NATIONALISM 

In a recent public statement, the Catholic priests of Bougainville have traced 
the origins of the present crisis to 1 an understanding within our people that the 
North Solomons is geographically, culturally, racially and economically different 
from other parts of Papua New Guinea' and that 'this is most clearly illustrated by 
the very name of the province, the darkness of its people's skin and ,„ the 
presence o f the cargo cult mentality' {Times of Papua New Guinea, 24 August 
1989). Much as I hesitate to disagree with the holy fathers, I suggest that; 

(a) the 'cargo cult mentality' is alive and well on Misima, on Lihir, in the North 
Fly region, and in many other parts of Papua New Guinea (see Gerritsen and 
Macintyre 1986 - Misima; Filer and Jackson 1989 - Lihir; Bickerton 1985 and 
Hyndman 1987 - North Fly); 

(b) the black skin celebrated by the Mungkas Association is only one of many 
physical features which Papua New Guineans use to classify and denigrate 
people from other parts of their country; 5 and 

(c) there is, to my knowledge, no traditional cultural institution which unites the 
majority of people in the North Solomons Province and simultaneously serves 
to distinguish them from the majority of people in the other provinces of this 
supremely diverse nation/ 1 



6 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



Let me then suggest that the most important thing which distinguishes the North 
Solomons from the other eighteen provinces of Papua New Guinea, in historical, 
political, cultural, social and economic terms, is nothing other than the massive 
hole in the middle of it. 

Another way of making this point is to ask what would have happened if the 
Panguna copper deposit had not been discovered in the middle of Bougainville 
Island, but in another part of Papua New Guinea. If, for example, it had been 
discovered on the mainland of New Ireland, then I suggest that the relative roles of 
New Ireland and North Solomons provinces in the history of Papua New Guinea 
would simply have been reversed. New Ireland would now have another name 
and New Ireland would have boasted the first provincial government, while 
Bougainville Province would still be a sleepy backwater. And if it is objected that 
New Irelanders could not possibly have demanded a free transfer to an entity like 
the British Solomon Islands Protectorate, as it then was, 1 can only remind you 
that New Ireland has possessed, for at least the last twenty- five years, a 
secessionist movement demanding a free transfer to the United States of America 
(see Filer and Jackson 1989:ch, 9, app. 4). 

But perhaps the example of Ok Tedi will also be raised as an objection. 
Kennecott geologists first entered the North Fly region in 1968, well within the 
period of colonial administration, and the general consensus of opinion is that they 
'were welcomed enthusiastically by the local people, who felt the exploration 
programme would substantially increase development opportunities' (Pintz 
1984:32), Certainly this was a major contrast with the reception of CRA 
geologists in the Panguna area. And it is also certain that the Western District, as it 
then was, did not become a hotbed of resistance to the colonial administration, nor 
a major source of embarrassment to the independent state of Papua New Guinea. 

On this score, I would say that Ok Tedi is no more or less typical than 
Panguna. Those who argue that resistance around Panguna was motivated by the 
feeling that Bougainville had been 'neglected' by the colonial administration would 
have a hard lime in arguing that the North Fly region had been less neglected, 
Indeed, the North Fly region had been so much neglected that the local landowners 
were only too pleased to see someone take an interest in them. In the early 1960s 
the Bougainvillean style of anti-colonial sentiment seems to have been widespread 
in those parts of Melanesia which had already experienced more than fifty years of 
colonial rule, but was much less evident in those inland areas (like Ok Tedi) which 
had been more recently colonized. 7 And beyond this, it may be argued that the 
special local circumstances of 'first contact' between villagers and geologists has 
also been a major factor in deciding the quality of their initial relationship, 
regardless of the political relationship between the villagers and the (colonial or 
national) state. 



COLIN FILER 7 



In retrospect, it does seem true that the Panguna landowners exhibited an 
unusual degree of hostility to the very idea of mineral exploration, but it is not so 
obvious that the reasons had anything to do with Bougainvillean nationalism. 8 In 
the period since independence, landowners confronted by a major exploration 
effort seem to have alternated between an attitude of welcome and an attitude of 
ambivalence, punctuated by an occasional outburst of violent rejection. There 
have been occasions when one might describe the relationship between 
landowners and geologists as a sort of 'honeymoon' (Filer and Jackson 
1989:186), especially during the early stages of exploration, in which the 
landowners are free to expect great things, and the geologists have no need to 
dispel their illusions. However, in the context of the present crisis, one can also 
say that there is no evidence to suggest that the presence or absence of a 
honeymoon makes any difference to the long-term stability of a marriage. It could 
even be argued that those landowners who have experienced a romantic 
engagement wi th mining companies during the process of exploration will be even 
more disappointed by the sordid realities of extraction than those whose marriage 
has been arranged against their wilL 

If the Ok Tedi landowners had a honeymoon in the early 1970s (with 
Kennecott), their marriage in the 1980s (with Ok Tedi Mining Ltd) has been a 
stormy one, as evident in their latest 'strike' of February 1988. This was very 
easily suppressed, partly because the landowners do not have the organization, 
and above all the population, to prolong their protests. But note also that Ok Tedi 
has only been operational since 1984, ten years less than the Panguna mine, and 
the Panguna landowners were already mounting short-term 'strikes' ten years 
ago. 9 

Like most other landowner strikes in the mining industry, the strike at Ok 
Tedi was primarily directed at the presence of 'outsiders' - not the expatriates who 
were targets of a strike by the workforce later in 1988, but Papua New Guineans 
from other parts of the country, whether they be working or squatting at 
Tabubil. 10 It is sad but true that this fear of other Papua New Guineans is aroused 
by most major development projects in Papua New Guinea, If anything, I would 
say that the Panguna landowners are unusual for the fact that this obsession 
became, for them, a matter of secondary concern. Despite the standard litany of 
complaints about 'redskins', their ethnic grievances were complicated, on the one 
hand, by talk of a 'white mafia' using T divide-and-rule tactics', and on the other 
hand, by resentments directed against other Bougainvilleans employed by BCL, 
During the 1987 national election campaign, when Father Momis unveiled his 
'Bougainville Initiative 1 , the 'Panguna landowners' were reportedly demanding 
the replacement of the non-landowning Bougainvilleans in BCL's Village Relations 
Office with expatriates, 'so that there is no bias' (Times of Papua New Guinea, 4 



8 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



June 1987). Francis Ona and the other leaders of the 'new Panguna Landowners 
Association', which was founded in the aftermath of the elections, seem mainly to 
have targeted the 'white mafia' (BCL and the Department of Minerals and Energy) 
and h lhe black men in top [BCL] offices' who were just 'window dressing 1 , rather 
than the 'redskins' working or squatting in the Arawa-Panguna area, There is also 
evidence to suggest that the leadership of the new Panguna Landowners' 
Association had come to think of themselves as the actual or potential leaders of a 
national movement of mining landowners, and in this sense at least had certainly 
moved beyond the confines of Bougainvillean nationalism. 

Although I stand to be corrected on this point, I would say that the old 
secessionist demands were notable by their absence from the agenda of the 
Panguna landowners in the course of 1988. One newspaper article has reported 
Francis Ona as saying that the Bougainville Revolutionary Army was bom on the 
day that Defence Force troops landed at Aropa airport in March 1989 (Times of 
Papua New Guinea, 1 September 1989), It is true that the demand for secession is 
contained in letters purportedly written by Ona in February and in April (Times of 
Papua New Guinea, 10 February and 28 April 1989). However, Premier Kabui 
has indicated his own belief (personal communication) that these were responses 
to the death of the first 'militant' at the hands of the police, in January, and to the 
murder of the Bougainvillean nurse, in March, which sparked the 'payback' 
killing of two Highlanders at Aropa Plantation, and thus led indirectly to the 
deployment of troops, In a well- attested statement made on the day before her 
death, Perpetua Sercro, chairperson of the new Panguna Landowners' 
Association, said that she not only 'feared secession', but that 'the whole crisis in 
the Province has developed into something totally different from the original 
demands of the landowners' (Times of Papua New Guinea, 15 June 1989). All 
the documents produced and observations made in 1988 support this view. 11 Just 
as in the colonial period, secessionism seems to have been a gut response to the 
violence of the state, compounded by further incidents of ethnic strife, but the 
violence of the state had already been prompted by actions with other motives - in 
this case the basic demand to close the mine, 

I conclude this section by suggesting that there has been a period of twenty 
years, from 1967 to 1987, in which the myth of Bougainvillean nationalism has 
effectively concealed the social impact of the Panguna mine on the landowning 
community by diverting national attention, first to the balance of power between 
the colonial administration and the people of Bougainville District, and then to the 
balance of power between the Papua New Guinea national government and the 
North Solomons provincial government. Of course, racial and ethnic issues have 
always been relevant, but not, I think, in a manner which is in any way unique to 
Bougainville. 



COUNF^ER 9 



THE MYTH OF MELANESIAN COMMUNISM 

The myth of Melanesian communism is the story of a village which exists 
everywhere and nowhere, whose traditions were manufactured at the moment of 
their own destruction, and whose institutions are encapsulated in a national identity 
which cannot be distinguished from a hundred other national identities created by 
the same colonial experience. Once upon a time there was a community whose 
members lived in complete harmony with each other and with their natural 
environment, who jointly owned the land to which they had a mystical attachment, 
who chose their leaders by consensus, settled arguments by compromise, and 
redistributed the products of their labour to ensure that everyone enjoyed the same 
condition of subsistence affluence. By general agreement, these are the Papua 
New Guinean forms of social, political and economic organization' whose 
preservation at the level of the village, and whose application to the business of 
'development 1 , became the fifth and last of the National Goals devised by the 
Constitutional Planning Committee. 12 And so, with a bit of luck, they would all 
live happily ever after. 

This vision of the Papua New Guinean or Melanesian village in the sky is 
not only a source of comfort and inspiration to members of the national political 
dtite; it has also been seen by all sorts of expatriates for as long as expatriates have 
been around to see it. Enlightened colonial administrators, romantic 
anthropologists, syncretizing Christian missionaries, fly-by-night consultants, and 
a host of other characters, including the executives of mining companies, have all 
helped to construct this image of 'traditional Melanesian society 1 . And they had no 
great trouble doing so, because it is the image of a communist Utopia which 
Europeans had invented long before they came to Melanesia. Only in the villages 
themselves, the real ones on the ground, does it appear to be what it really is: a 
dream of something radically different from the present and the past. 

If this is so, what general statements can be made about traditional society 
and the experience of social change in hundreds of distinct communities and in a 
country justifiably renowned for the diversity of almost everything which it 
possesses? There are not many, and those which I put forward here will surely be 
disputed, but they do have an important bearing on my present subject 13 

My most general statement would be that Melanesian communities have 
always been on the verge of disintegration, even in pre -colonial times, and it has 
always taken special qualities of leadership, in each succeeding generation, to 
prevent them from splitting apart at the seams. In pre-colonial times, such efforts 
were directed to the pursuit of warfare, the practice of initiation, and the 
organization of large-scale gift-exchange, but the rules of these games were no 
more permanent than the social groups whose continuity depended on the 



10 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



outcome. Colonialism itself had a complex and contradictory impact on this 
unstable state of affairs. 

From the outset, the suppression of tribal fighting, the demarcation of 
communal territories, and the incorporation of these spatial units into the structure 
of colonial administration had the effect of fixing and preserving a particular 
moment in the fluctuation of social fortunes. Those institutions and relationships 
which happened to exist in each community, at this moment of subordination to 
colonial rule, then came to be perceived, like an old photograph or a stuffed 
animal, as a peculiar and ancient legacy. But the question of whether these 
customs should now be preserved, modified or discarded was only the first of 
many new sources of social conflict within and between the local groups whose 
physical existence had come to be guaranteed by the rule of law. 

The new regime created opportunities for modernizing leaders to establish 
their authority as middle men between the colonizing institutions and the rural 
population, even to enlarge the scope of their authority beyond the confines of 
their own communities; and yet their chances of success were limited, just as the 
cost of failure was reduced, by the impossibility of wiping out the opposition. 
Second-hand white man's magic was not much of a match for the spreading fears 
of home-grown sorcery, for it was hardly more effective in achieving social 
harmony than in reducing the disparities of wealth and power between the 
colonizer and the colonized. On the contrary, each new addition to the institutions 
of 'development' has subtracted something from the solidarity of the community 
by dividing a diminishing amount of authority between a growing number of 
leadership roles. 

In so far as customary forms of co-operation have been set aside by 
modernizing forms ofleadership which then failed to deliver the goods expected of 
them, so has popular disappointment provoked those new dreams of social order 
which have been called 'the cargo cult mentality'. But this third road to power, 
which promises to lead beyond the fractured images of custom and development, 
through a variety of 'new deals' with the supernatural, leads only to another form 
ofleadership and extra space for social conflict to occur 

If I seem to suggest that rural communities have been in a condition of 
perpetual turmoil and virtual anarchy for as long as anyone can remember, then I 
should correct this impression by saying that the rate of social change has normally 
not been so great as to prevent each generation of leaders, in each of these 
communities, from arriving at their own T MeIanesian compromise', making their 
own peace with God and with each other, for as long as their leadership lasts. The 
majority faction in each new generation may choose to take a different 'road', and 
each new road may later prove to be a dead end, but the process of social change 
has itself created new forms of 'initiation 1 (the experience of Japanese occupation, 



COLIN FILER U 



indentured labour recruitment, high school education, et cetera) which mark the 
boundaries of each new generation and impose some sort of order on the transfer 
of authority between them. 

Now I would argue that one of the lessons of the Bougainville crisis is that 
large-scale mining projects not only have the effect of speeding up the rate of 
social change in the surrounding communities, but also undermine the sort of 
compromise which has 'traditionally' been sufficient to contain or counteract the 
forces of disintegration. By so doing, they destroy the myth of Melanesian 
communism and replace it with a mental waste land where the 'Rambo' style of 
leadership appears to be the only valid road to power. 

THE PROCESS OF SOCIAL DISINTEGRATION 

There is an idiomatic turn of phrase in Tok Pisin which describes the 
situation in which an individual has embezzled group funds: 'wanpela pinga i bruk 
insait long dispela samting' (one finger is broken in this matter). I suggest that the 
process of social disintegration which is brought about by large-scale mining 
projects can be compared to the process of breaking all Five fingers in the 
outstretched hand of the landowning community, one by one. 

The process of disintegration has a number of distinct aspects or phases, 
each of which can be considered as a process and a problem in its own right I 
shall call these the problems of delineation, distribution, stratification, inheritance 
and succession. Taken together, they constitute a vicious circle, where each 
problem is constantly magnified by the impossibility of resolving the others, and 
the net result is an exponential accumulation of 'bad feelings" (as expressed in the 
Tok Pisin words wari and hevi) which must sooner or later have their day of 
reckoning. To judge by the Panguna case, the total process of disintegration, 
starting with the process of delineation and ending with a drastic solution to the 
problem of succession, takes approximately twenty years, five of which precede 
the start of mining operations while the other fifteen follow it. 

The process of delineation defines the outer limits of those areas of 
customary land which arc to be leased by the owners to the government, and by 
the government to the company, for the purpose of mining and related activities, 
and subdivides these lease areas into blocks or 'titles' which are held to belong to 
particular Tamily groups'. 14 The straight lines which compose the geometrical 
shape of each mining lease bear little or no relation to those tribal or communal 
boundaries which have previously been established by the process of colonial 
administration. Nor is there any time for the new 'community 1 of landowners to 
develop their collective identity, because their land is simultaneously split up into 
units of de facto private property, each one neatly drawn and measured on the 
map, and each one registered under the name of an individual 'titleholdcr', 



12 CANBERRA AhrniROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



normally male, who successfully presses his claim to leadership of the group to 
which it 'really' belongs. This procedure instantly abolishes those very elements 
of flexibility and instability which arc essential to the customary ownership of land 
in Melanesia, 15 A whole dimension of existence is eliminated by this jigsaw 
puzzle of a map, which then becomes not just a puzzle to the people but a secret 
weapon in the hands of the authorities, It may be no coincidence that Francis Ona 
chose to train as a surveyor, was employed by BCL in this capacity, and could 
thus claim that he had stolen back the secrets of the sacred map. 16 

The purpose of the delineation exercise is to determine who will be entitled 
to exactly what proportion of the royalties, occupation fees, and compensation 
payments which the customary landlords will receive by way of 'rent' for the use 
and abuse of their land by the mining company. Although the titleholders 
constitute a relatively small minority within the landowning community, there is no 
outside interest in the question of whether and how they will use these moneys for 
the benefit and satisfaction of their respective family groups. It has evidently been 
assumed that 'customary' norms of distribution and consumption will apply to this 
new form of wealth, and this will raise no special problems for the company or for 
the government. But the complaints of the new PL A have shown that this 
assumption is false. 17 The titleholders stand accused of keeping all the money to 
themselves, not even giving any to their closest relatives. If this is true, it might 
be taken as a sign of selfishness or greed, but I suggest that it may also be a sign 
of something else: the simple absence of a custom which prescribes the proper 
way to redistribute rent. If that is the case, the till didder may justifiably believe 
that any further transfer of the money he receives will cause more arguments than 
it resolves - and so he keeps it to himself. 

When the Panguna militants talk about a "class struggle' within the 
landowning community, they are no doubt partly thinking of the cumulative 
outcome of decisions such as this, where each new round of cheques is locked 
up' by an ageing group of titleholders, progressively reducing their authority 
within the clans and families which they are meant to represent 18 But they are 
also thinking of the inequalities of wealth and power which have emerged within 
the titleholding 'class 1 . These inequalities are partly derived from differences in 
the size of the entitlements established by the delineation process, and they may 
well have been exaggerated by differences in the way that individual titleholders 
have dealt with their receipts. But they were surely consolidated, and have since 
been enlarged, by the formation and operation of the Road Mining Tailings Leases 
Trust. 

This organism was established under the terms of the 1980 compensation 
agreement between BCL and a group of twelve titleholders who 'represented' the 
landowning community as a whole. 19 Under the terms of that agreement, certain 



COLIN FILER 13 



types of compensation would be paid directly into the Trust, and the Trustees were 
then charged with the double task of investing this money for the benefit of future 
generations while spending the income from such investments for the benefit of 
the wider community. But, for masons which are not entirely clear, formal 
membership of the Trust was never extended to the whole body of titleholders 
(according to the Applied Geology Associates report [1989:7, 11], there were 
seventy-five voting members in November 1988), while effective control of the 
funds soon passed into the hands of what appeared to be a self-perpetuating band 
of local businessmen, part of thai class of Bougainvilleans who have apparently 
grown fat from eating at the table of the mining company. 20 The stratification of 
the landowning community thus proceeded to the point at which an inner circle of 
comprador capitalists acted as the bankers, and sometimes as the patrons, of a 
middle class of petty landlords, living on the leftovers from the mining feast, while 

However, the language of class fails to register the fact that these capitalists, 
landlords, workers and peasants are related to each other by customary, and often 
intimate, bonds of kinship, and are distinguished from each other by the lines of 
age and seniority as well as by their economic situation, The problems of 
distribution and stratification are problems in the economic relationship between 
individual members of the landowning community. But individuals grow up, 
grow old, and pass away - just like the mining operation at Panguna, And in so 
far as their relationships have been conditioned by this mining operation, they have 
also been distorted by the fact that human beings, unlike mineral ore bodies, 
reproduce themselves and must, in some sense and in due course, have their 
places taken by another generation. As mining proceeds towards the point of 
exhaustion, the question of which landowners get what benefits becomes a 
question of what, when and how one landowner will inherit from another. 

Identification and compensation of the Panguna landowners has proceeded 
on the bland assumption that inheritance takes place when people die. This 
assumption, which has evidently been inherited from the colonial administration, 
seems quite natural to people bom and brought up in the world of private property, 
but in the world of Mclanesian custom it would probably be more correct to say 
that death is timely if and when the process of inheritance has been completed. If 
the Panguna titleholders have been reluctant to initiate this process, this may not 
simply mean that they have come to share the assumptions made by the Land Titles 
Commission and BCL's Village Relations Office, but may arise from the same 
mixture of motives which has prevented them from redistributing the cash to 
which they are entitled. 

Their reluctance will almost certainly have been compounded by the local 
tradition of matrilineal inheritance, because this form of inheritance is notoriously 



14 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



vulnerable to the institutions of private property. Even the cultivation of cash 
crops on customary land is known to have threatened the integrity of the 
matrilincal principle in those Melanesian communities which subscribe to it, 
because cash crops have come to be defined as male property, so there must be an 
expectation that this custom will be further undermined when cash values arc 
attached directly to the land itself. 21 The male titleholder T torn between the claims 
of his own and his sister's children, may simply be unable to settle the issue in his 
own lifetime, but the titleholders of Panguna have presumably been dying with 
increasing frequency, and matters left unsettled at their deaths will have been 
accumulating in the heart of the community like social versions of the waste 
material which BCL discharges from its mine, The irony of this analogy, of 
course, is that the time through which disputed cases of inheritance remain to be 
resolved is also time through which the monetary value of the titles in dispute is 
rapidly declining. 22 Once the mine shuts down, the legacy is likely to consist of 
heated arguments about the ownership of land whose monetary value has 
dissolved, and some of which will otherwise be wholly useless. The Trust Fund 
was established with the worthy aim of postponing this nasty moment of truth by 
providing a form of rent that would outlast the closure of the mine. But if people 
cannot trust their own mothers' brothers to abide by the rules of matrilineal 
inheritance, how could they trust the Trustees to dispense the legacy of the entire 
community with any kind of justice? 23 

Just as the problem of inheritance reflects and supersedes the problem of 
distributing the benefits and costs of mining, so the problem of succession to 
leadership of the landowning community reflects and supersedes the problem of 
social stratification within it. 24 The problem is that power and influence 
associated with a form of wealth which cannot be distributed by custom are 
themselves immune to any customary method of transmission. If this form of 
wealth is locked up 1 by the leaders of a single generation, then leadership itself 
becomes the price which they must pay for keeping it, as power is stolen from 
them by the leaders of the generation which is being disinherited. This is clearly 
what has happened at Panguna. And, once again, the very nature of the mining 
project, huge in scale but limited in its duration, seems to have progressively 
reduced the intervals between those moments of 'initiation' whereby leadership is 
transferred to successive generations. One of these moments occurred between 
1978 and 1980, with the formation of the original Panguna Landowners' 
Association and conclusion of the new compensation agreement with BCL - events 
which are seen to have spelt the demise of the first generation of local leaders who 
dealt with the mining project in the late 1960s, as well as the first signs of the 
subsequent conflict between the second and third generations. 25 The credibility of 
the second generation certainly seems to have evaporated by 1987, when the 



COUNHLER 15 



formation of the new Panguna Landowners r Association marked the start of 
another 'coup' within the landowning community; If this third generation of 
leaders should now prove willing to accept the 'package' being offered to them by 
the government, their compromise might not secure their influence for more than 
three or four years at the most. One might indeed conclude that those who would 
be willing to accept this brief ascendancy have thereby lost their influence already. 

When the late Perpetua Serero said that 'mining causes mental illness', she 
was almost certainly referring to the widely held belief that BCL is damaging the 
brains of local people by discharging noxious substances into their physical 
environment 26 The company and the government have both taken a great deal of 
trouble to convince the local people that this could not possibly be happening. 27 
But I suggest that the appeal which they have made to chemical and biological 
realities has largely missed the point - which is that local people see and feel the 
transformation of their physical surroundings as the outward symbol of the 
damage done to their society. And it is this deeper sense of social disorder, 
originating in the problem of delineation and culminating in the problem of 
succession, which has induced the sort of 'craziness' which is so blatantly 
impervious to compromise 28 

The infamous demand for ten billion kina has understandably been taken as 
evidence of a lost grip on reality, the reduction to absurdity of the 'handout 
mentality'. But the insanity of this demand does not reside in the belief that such 
amounts of money can or will be paid. Those who know the way in which it was 
originally raised, in March 1988, will also know that it was raised as an alternative 
to the demand for total closure of the mine, 29 And yet the choice of this alternative 
reveals the motives of the authors in a manner which has not been widely 
understood by those who think that money talks. On the one hand, the demand 
for ten billion kina says that no quantity of money can compensate the community 
for the damage which it has suffered, and thus pours scorn on the first principle of 
corporate accountancy: that every man has his price, On the other hand, it 
proposes the impossible condition that if every man, woman and child within the 
landowning community were to become an instant millionaire, then and only then 
would the material rewards of mining not provoke an endless round of social 
conflict, If there is madness here, then I suggest it is the desperation of people 
suffering from acute cultural indigestion, whose eyes have seen through the myth 
of Melanesian communism while their fingers have been burnt or broken by the 
hand-outs which sustain them. 

THE FORUM/PACKAGE CONCEPT 



My account of the social disintegration of the (large) landowning 
unity' which has been created by the Panguna mining project may seem too 



16 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



abstract and mechanical to be an accurate reflection of the local social impact of the 
mine. My account certainly errs on Lhe side of simplification, but that is largely 
unavoidable and also serves a useful purpose in the context of the present 
question. It is unavoidable because of the very slender body of published 
evidence on the local social impact of the Panguna mine over a crucial fourteen- 
year period between 1974 and 1988, which obliges the social scientist to make 
large inferences from a small amount of data. But it is useful if it serves to 
emphasise the possibility that the 'Bougainville crisis' is not a unique blemish on 
the body politic of Papua New Guinea, but the outcome of a social process which 
may generally be expected to accompany certain types of economic development 
but which here, in Bougainville, has reached an extreme and unprecedented form. 
The possibility with which I am immediately concerned in this paper is that mining 
projects in Papua New Guinea all have a similar disintegrative effect on the social 
structure of the landowning (or local) community, even if the 'size' of this effect 
may be expected to vary in accordance with the scale or duration of particular 
projects. 30 

The strategies with which I am concerned in this second part of the paper 
are not strategies for 'resolving' the Bougainville crisis as it stands, but strategies 
which have been or might be adopted to prevent the recurrence of such a violent 
outcome to the relationship between other local communities and other mining 
projects in Papua New Guinea. The crisis has now acquired a momentum of its 
own, as the original grievances of the 'landowners' have been overlaid by 
grievances against the security forces, and simultaneously stirred up by the myth 
of Bougainvillean nationalism and a variety of populist sentiments, until the whole 
question of national identity and national development is at stake. But if we keep 
our eyes focused on the mining industry, we can see that the government and the 
mining companies are still proceeding on the assumption or in the hope that other 
mining projects will continue to sustain the national economy, even if Panguna 
stays shut for a long time. And we must therefore ask what the government and 
the mining companies are doing to ensure that other projects will not at some 
future date be closed down for good by community strikes, and thus to sustain 
their own hopes or assumptions. 

Of course the answer might be that they are not doing very much because 
they really do believe that the Bougainville crisis is the unique result of a series of 
accidents and mistakes which occurred back in the colonial period, and that 
subsequent mining projects, starting with Ok Tedi, have been established under 
completely different circumstances. It is in fact rather difficult to say how the 
Bougainville crisis has affected the rest of the mining industry in Papua New 
Guinea because debate on this subject is mainly conducted by people with fairly 
obvious axes to grind. The industry and its bureaucratic allies can be expected to 



OOUN FILER 17 



put a brave, business-as-usual face on the matter, even while politicians arc 
constantly popping up like demons in a video game, proclaiming the necessity or 
inevitability of a comparable crisis in their own backyards. One also suspects that 
fluctuations in the prices of gold and copper have a larger effect on both the 
confidence and the behaviour of mining company executives than does the risk of 
local protest movements getting out of hand. However, the public statements 
emanating from the larger mining companies, the Chamber of Mines and 
Petroleum, and the Minister/Department of Minerals and Energy, do indicate that 
the problem of 'dealing with landowners' is now taken a good deal more seriously 
than it was before the so-called 'mineral boom' became an object of intense 
political debate, and even more seriously in view of the turn which that debate has 
taken on Bougainville. 

Mining industry spokesmen appear to believe that it is possible to control 

adjusting the size and contents of their compensation 'package' through a form of 
consultation which the present government calls a 'development forum'. The 
explosions of discontent on Bougainville do not seem to have prevented the 
successful conclusion (in April 1989) of a Mining Development Contract for the 
Porgera project after a protracted and tortuous series of negotiations between the 
developers, the national government, the provincial government and the 
landowners. This process of consultation, which came to be known as a 'forum' 
some time after it had actually started, has supposedly produced a 'package' which 
includes, amongst its other delights, a sort of insurance policy against 'strikes' by 
landowners or other local interests. 31 The 'forum/package concept' was 
simultaneously extended, as a matter of national government policy, to all major 
mining projects in Papua New Guinea, not only those (like Lihir or Hidden 
Valley) which arc still in the planning stage, but also those (like Misima, Ok Tedi 
and Panguna) which are already operational under previous mining agreements. 
Following the wrapping and unwrapping of the Porgera package, we have thus 
witnessed applications of the forum/package concept to the awkward task of 
stitching together a new deal between Ok Tedi Mining Ltd and the people of the 
Fly River (Post-Courier, 15 June, 25 August, 14 September and 2 October 1989; 
Times of Papua Mew Guinea, 5 October 1989), and even to the ultimate task of 
resolving the Bougainville crisis itself (Post-Courier, 26 April, 4 May, 22 August, 
5 and 21 September 1989), although the latter effort quickly proved abortive. 

Without going into the detail of what is contained in these various packages, 
we can already see that the forum/package concept rests on two significant 
assumptions. 

1, That there is a way of distributing the benefits and costs of mining that will 

> a mining development forum (we can think of 



18 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1)1990 



this as a way of cutting up the 'cake' which will keep all parties happy for the 
time it takes to finish eating it), 
2. That there is a form (perhaps even a Papua New Guinean form) of consultation 
or dialogue between the four parties which is able to produce this mutually 
satisfactory arrangement. On the basis of this arrangement, lasting 
commitments can then be made by the signatories to a formal agreement, 
I think that these assumptions are not only questionable in their own right, but also 
have the effect of concealing the problem of social disintegration which I have 
outlined in the previous section. 

Public debate on the mineral cake-slicing issue in Papua New Guinea can 
often seem like a dialogue of the deaf. The main reason for this is confusion over 
the question of what is being distributed. Central government departments (and 
their ministers) may be talking primarily about the distribution of quantifiable 
economic benefits, including compensation for quantifiable environmental costs, 
while other participants often appear to be talking about the distribution of 'rights' 
or 'powers' (to say 'yes-or-no 1 ), or about costs (and even benefits perhaps) which 
cannot be quantified or priced. In addition, much of this debate has a David-and- 
Goliath quality, in which the 'customary landowner 1 is counterposed to the wicked 
multinational corporation and its political or bureaucratic allies, and emotional 
identification with the underdog or the 'grassroot' simply fails to engage with an 
economic discussion of costs and benefits, 32 

But while it may be true that the mining companies and the central 
government departments (Finance, Prime Minister's, Minerals and Energy) share 
an 'economic' perspective on the distribution question, it is also true that the 
central government departments, unlike the mining companies, are engaged in the 
pursuit of explicit 'national goals'. In this case the relevant national goals (as 
stated in the Constitution) appear to be: 

4 J 'wise use to be made of our natural resources and the environment in and on 

the land or seabed, under the land, and in the air, in the interests of our 

development and in trust for future generations'; 
3.6 'the Slate to take effective measures to control and actively participate in the 

national economy, and in particular to control major enterprises engaged in 

the exploitation of natural resources 1 ; and 
2.3 'every effort to be made to achieve an equitable distribution of incomes and 

other benefits of development among individuals and throughout the various 

parts of the country'. 
From a technocratic point of view, the "forum/package concept' is both a way of 
controlling the relationship between mining companies and local interest groups 
(landowners, communities, provincial governments) and a way of trying to 



COLIN FILER 19 



maintain the principles of long-term benefit and "regional equality" at a national 
level, against the special pleadings of these local interest groups. 33 

Nevertheless, despite the differences in their ultimate goals, the central 
government departments and the mining companies do share the immediate 
problem of determining the lowest reasonable cash cost, to themselves, of 
purchasing the support and co-operation of these local interests for the duration of 
each new mining project being proposed. (The mining companies, of course, 
have the additional problem of gaining the support and co-operation of the national 
government, and vice versa,) Since both parties tend to approach this problem in a 
similar way, through the spectacles of accountancy, we can say that there is a sort 
of technocratic consensus between the companies and the national government on 
the problem of constructing 'packages' for landowners. Unfortunately, this 
method of approaching the problem docs not have widespread popular support, 
least of all amongst the local interest groups themselves, to judge by the waves of 
populist sentiment which wash through the local newspapers. Indeed, the 
frequency with which new packages are unveiled for public inspection might 
almost serve to confirm the popular impression that each one is an elaborate 
confidence trick on the part of the mining industry. 

The ' forum' part of the Torum/package concept' might therefore be 
regarded, somewhat cynically, as the method by which this confidence trick is 
played, or the way that the cards are dealt by the organizers of the game. But this 
way of regarding the process of negotiation suggests the existence of a conspiracy 
between the companies and some national government departments which is much 
easier to imagine than it is to demonstrate in practice. It would be more accurate to 
say that the 'hands' of the national government, the provincial government, and 
the landowning community, in what appears to be a four-handed game with a 
particular mining company, are all shared by a number of individuals (for 
example, national or provincial politicians) and organizations (for example, 
national or provincial government departments) whose own interests are by no 
means identical. This means, amongst other things, that 'the government's' 
interest in a mining project is a very difficult thing to pin down, and so likewise is 
the idea of a "government strategy" for dealing with cither landowning 
communities on the one side or mining companies on the other side of the 
negotiating table. The Department of Minerals and Energy may sit next to the 
mining company, but that does not mean either that the company controls the 
Department of Minerals and Energy or that the Department of Minerals and Energy 
{or any other government department) controls all the other 'government' players 
in the game. The negotiating table might have four sides, but there are certainly 
more than four players in the game of producing mining agreements. 



20 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13{1) 1990 



From this point of view, the forum concept can he seen as a way of 
organizing the game in such a way that the mining companies and the national 
government* do a deal with 'the provincial government and the landowners', and 
thus bring some semblance of order to what might otherwise become an 
interminable process of discussion. The Department of Minerals and Energy 



between the four 'parties', and if one thinks of this dialogue as a zero-sum game 
one may wish to ask if the cards are therefore bound to be stacked in favour of 'the 
mining companies and the national government', but the more important question 

does have the effect of producing solid and long-lasting agreements based on the 
equitable satisfaction of a range of divergent local interests, I am inclined to think 
of this process as a game of strip poker in which everyone expects to lose some of 
their clothes but no one wants to lose all of their clothes, and which is supposed to 
go on until everyone is satisfied with the total amount of clothing which has so far 
been removed. From this point of view, the packages produced by T the national 
government and the mining companies' for the benefit of 'the provincial 
government and the landowners 1 are to be regarded as claims that this state of 
mutual satisfaction has in fact been reached or is at least in sight. The question is 
whether, and for how long, these claims prove to be correct 

Of course, the forum concept can and has been justified by some of its 
supporters, like Justice Minister Bernard Narokobi, as a method of planning and 
decision-making which exemplifies or should exemplify some peculiarly 
Melanesian or Papua New Guinean spirit of compromise between the interested 
parties. From this point of view, the process of consultation can almost be 
regarded as an end in itself, because it is a way of achieving yet another national 
goal (1.6), which is for 'development to take place primarily through the use of 
Papua New Guinean forms of social and political organization 1 . But it seems to 
me that the question of what, if anything, is 'Papua New Guinean' about the 
process of consultation which actually takes place is something of a red herring 
(like the question of whether the policies pursued by the Department of Minerals 
and Energy are part of the 'unacceptable legacy of Australian colonialism') when 
compared to the question of what actually emerges from the process by way of an 
agreement. 

The spirit of Melanesian compromise has the same relationship to the 
process of consultation as the rights of the customary landowner have to the 
package which it produces. In both cases we are given to understand the necessity 
of extracting a principle of 'custom' from the myth of Melanesian communism and 
injecting it into the legal, fiscal and bureaucratic framework of the mining industry, 
but, to the best of my knowledge, there has been hardly any serious discussion of 




COLIN FILER 21 



how this is to be done, or by whom, so the bureaucratic process of planning, 
negotiating, and managing mining projects rolls on regardless, while 'custom' 
pops up from time to time as an obstacle or a nuisance to the achievement of 
bureaucratic objectives. 

Returning now la the problem of social disintegration, I think it can be seen 
that discussion of the 'forum/package concept' as a form of distribution and a form 
of consultation tends to ignore this problem altogether, partly because of the 
assumptions made by the proponents of the concept, and partly because of red 
herrings derived from the myth of Melanesian communism. It is interesting to 
note how little reference has been made in the mineral policy debate to yet another 
national goal (5,4), which is for 'traditional villages and communities to remain as 
viable units of Papua New Guinean society, and for active steps to be taken to 
improve their cultural, social, economic and ethical quality'. My own argument is 
that 'traditional communities' may well not remain as Viable units of Papua New 
Guinea society' when they find themselves (or lose themselves) in the vicinity of a 
large-scale mining project, and if large-scale mining projects really do engender a 
process of local social disintegration, this is partly because of the social effect of 
whatever 'package' of material benefits has so far been distributed as the price of 
local co-operation* The tragic irony of the package concept can be expressed in the 
form of a hypothesis concerning the so-called 'handout mentality': that the degree 
of strife within a 'landowning community', especially between the leaders of 
successive generations, is proportional to the size of the 'packages' which have 
been delivered lo the community by a mining company and the various agencies of 
government. As we have seen, the Bougainville crisis contains a number of 
elements which should encourage us to think along these lines. Although the 
evidence is by no means conclusive, there is evidence enough to indicate that the 
economic steps which are taken to compensate local people for the damage done to 
their physical environment may have a negative social impact of their own, and 
thus add further insult to existing injury. The construction of new 'packages', 
each more generous than the last, may thus have the seemingly paradoxical effect 
of intensifying the resentment of the recipients, and thus exaggerating the scale of 
their further demands to the point of absurdity (ten billion kina), so that the whole 
exercise becomes a vicious circle. 

Such is the irony of the package concept. The irony of the forum concept 
would then be that these packages also function as time bombs which ultimately 
destroy the 'spirit of compromise' (Melanesian or otherwise) which entered into 
their creation. The spirit of compromise is one thing which has been very 
obviously lacking from the behaviour of the Bougainville 'militants', at least from 
the foundation of the new Panguna Landowners' Association in late 1987. The 



22 CAXBHRRA AN-nCROPOLOGY 13(1)1990 



the philosophy of the Melanesian Alliance party and the myth of Melanesian 
communism. This point has been noted by a number of local commentators, but 
has generally been treated as a problem concerning the leadership 1 which is 
exercised by various individuals - the Prime Minister, Father Mom is, Premier 
Kabui, Francis Ona, and so forth (see, for example, the commentaries by Siaguru 
[1988,1989]; Senge [1989a, 1989b]; Hannett [1989]; and Momis [1989]), My 
own argument is that leadership is not just a quality possessed by certain 
individuals, but also a problem in the relationship between successive generations 
in rapidly changing communities, that this relationship may be severely strained by 
the problem of handling compensation packages, and that this strain is connected 
in some way with the growth of that 'uncompromising militancy' which has been 
a hallmark of the Bougainvillean rebellion. The origins of the Bougainville crisis 
should certainly alert us to the likelihood that 'deals 1 done with one generation of 




of the manner in which these deals are negotiated. So far as the forum concept is 
concerned, one might then suggest that the form or extent of consultation with 
landowners may have linle or nothing to do with the social impact of the 'deals' 
which have to be done, so attempts to reform or expand the process of 
consultation will not make much difference, in the long run, to the perceived 
validity of agreements between landowners, mining companies and government 



SOCIAL IMPACT AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS 

If it is true that public debate about the mining industry in Papua New 
Guinea has largely been diverted from the problem of local social disintegration, 
this does not necessarily mean that the mining companies and some relevant 
government agencies are unaware of the problem or lack strategics for dealing with 
it, but may only mean that they and other participants in the debate see no reason to 
make a fuss about it I think it can be said that the larger mining companies and 
one relevant government agency, the Department of Minerals and Energy Policy 
and Co-ordination Division, do have strategies for dealing with this problem: they 
have 'community liaison' programmes which are partly founded on a recognition 
that the social (as opposed to the economic) impact of mining projects on local 
communities is indeed likely to be negative, even if the nature of this negative 
impact is something of a mystery; and there is a bureaucratic process of planning 
for negative social impact, which involves the conduct of social (and economic) 
impact studies of various kinds, in which the Department of Minerals and Energy 
has played an organising role on the government side, while the companies have 
also taken their own counsel. 



COLIN FILER 23 



On the olhcr hand, it is no easy task to devise a community liaison 
programme, or any other public relations programme, which can actually limit or 
control the community breakdown process. This encourages argument about who 
is responsible for controlling which aspect of this process, which makes it even 
more difficult to find a bureaucratic or technocratic solution to the problem, 
'Community relations' in the mining industry is a veritable minefield, in which 
anything resembling a strategy is likely to blow up in the face of its owner and 
everyone involved would like to pass the buck to someone else. But it is still a 
game which must be played, however many no-win situations it contains. 

The Socio-Economic Impact Study (SEIS) saga illustrates the point. The 
SEIS is the document (or collection of documents) which should contain any 
predictions concerning the negative social impact of a mining project, and which 
may also contain recommendations or proposals for the monitoring and mitigation 



successively from the mining companies to the Department of Finance, thence to 
the Department of Minerals and Energy, and back again (in 1988) to the mining 



co-ordinating role, the consultants were hired and paid by a 'steering committee' 
or 'liaison committee' which represented a variety of government departments, 
including the relevant provincial department, as well as the developer, The 
landowners were not formally represented on this committee (which is what 
distinguishes it from a development forum'), but the SEIS itself was part of the 
process of consultation with them. The terms of reference required the consultants 
to recommend (amongst other things) strategics to 'lessen undesirable social 
influences and impacts of mining on the project area, the local community, the 
district and the province', 35 but without indicating which organizations would take 
responsibility for what sort of activities. The consultants have operated on the 
assumption that recommendations could be made to any and all of the 
organizations represented on the steering committee. The mining companies have 
submitted their own perceptions of their own responsibilities as part of their draft 
environmental plans, while the Department of Minerals and Energy has attempted 
to co-ordinate the government response to the recommendations contained in the 
original SEIS report. 

No sooner had this procedure become relatively well established in the 
minds of the participants than attempts were made to change it. In 1988 Cabinet 
endorsed a proposal that production of the SEIS should no longer be the joint 
responsibility of the government and the developer, but the sole responsibility of 
the developer As I understand it, the argument behind this proposal was that the 
only legislation relating to the 'social and economic impact' of mining projects is 




24 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



the Environmental Planning Act (1978), which requires the developer to include a 
socio-economic impact assessment in the draft environmental plan which it 
submits to the Department of Environment and Conservation, and that department, 
not the Department of Minerals and Energy, should therefore have the role of co- 
ordinating the government response. This change has the effect, perhaps not 
intentional, of reducing the governments own capacity to predict, monitor and 
manage the negative social impact of mining projects, by removing government 
input to the relevant planning process. Left to its own devices, the developer is 
bound to produce a Socio-Economic Impact Study which presents the impact of 
the project in a favourable light, but the government's capacity to make an 
independent assessment of the claims made in this part of a draft environmental 
plan is now more limited than it was under the previous arrangement, when the 
consultants were partly employed by the government. 36 

In practice, the extent of this change has not been very great The 
Department of Minerals and Energy continues to organize what arc now called 
'baseline planning studies' instead of 'socio-economic impact studies', and 
otherwise continues to co-ordinate the process of consultation between the 
company and various other government agencies. 37 The companies continue to 
commission impact studies of their own, but may not publish the results unless 
required to do so by the government, and the Department of Environment and 
Conservation continues to administer the Environmental Planning Act. The main 
change has been experienced by the consultant (like myself) who is now placed in 
the position of either working for the company or working for the government, but 
never both at once. 

The point here is not to discuss the merits or demerits of any particular 
method of organizing social impact studies, nor for that matter to complain about 
the small amounts of money which the government and/or the companies have 
seen fit to spend on the conduct of such studies (see Burton 1989), but to ask why 
the government should thus be reducing its own (limited) capacity to plan for the 
negative social impact of mining projects at the very same time that the Panguna 
crisis was coming to the boil. My own answer would be that several government 
agencies, with a good deal of popular support, have decided that the best way 
forward is to leave all 'social problems' to the people who create them - in this 
case the mining companies. 

Wc might call this the Pontius Pilate' strategy. It must at least seem like 
this to the mining companies, when they find themselves being accused, as they 
often are, of adopting 'divide- and-rule tactics' towards their host communities. 38 
The irony of this accusation is that such tactics are part of a strategy oirule. The 
mining companies may protest that they have no interest in ruling anyone but their 
own workforce, but if they end up 'ruling' their host communities by default, 



COIIN FILER 25 



because the government fails to do so, they certainly have no interest in fomenting 
divisions and conflicts within these communities once an agreement has been made 
with the putative leaders of these groups, because such conflicts are almost bound 
to affect the stability of this agreement, and even threaten the main business of 
extracting minerals, as the Panguna case perfectly illustrates. 39 This is a no- win 
situation for the mining companies. They would much prefer to deal with united 
communities, assuming of course that some previous process of consultation had 
produced an apparent consensus in favour of the project; they have community 
relations programmes which really are designed to maintain this original 
appearance of community support. But if divisions arise within a community as 
the unintended consequence of actions which a company is obliged to take under 
the terms of its agreements with the government and the landowners', the 
company can still expect to collect the lion's share of the blame, regardless of the 
size and content of its public relations budget. 

It is easy enough to criticize BCL's Village Relations Office for its failure to 
maintain local support for the mining project, but this only illustrates a more 
general problem with community liaison programmes in the mining industry, 
whether they are mounted by the industry or by the state. The problem is that 
these programmes are part of a bureaucratic process which is established by the 
original process of planning and consultation which precedes the signing of 
mining agreements. In this original process company and government staff deal 
with individuals who appear to be the leaders of their communities, whether they 
be clan elders, local councillors, or whatever. But the story of the Panguna project 
suggests that the authority of these leaders within their own communities may well 
be undermined by the very fact of their having been party to some previous 
agreement, and even further undermined by the support which they seem to 
receive from community liaison officers. Since the community liaison function 
tends to be localized in the operational stage of a mining project, this means that a 
group of Papua New Guinean staff arc placed in the invidious position of being 
seen to practise the so-called l wantok system', because they cannot settle the 
disputes between generations and factions within the landowning community, and 
are even obliged by previous agreements to recognize the overall leadership of 
what has since become a minority faction. 

The problem is ultimately one of reconciling the inherent flexibility and 
fragility of 'traditional' social structures and the inherent rigidities of legal and 
administrative frameworks. This problem seems to be recognized by those who 
wish to inject a dose of 'Papua New Guinean ways' into the process of 
consultation (by an extension of the 'forum concept'), but it is not so obvious how 
the current practice of consultation is serving to resolve it. If we take only the 
example of land delineation, we find that this particular form of 'consultation' 



26 CANBERRA AJSTHROPOLOCY 13(1) 1990 



between the landowners, the company, and the government is still undertaken in 
ways which have not changed in any significant respect since independence, and 
we might therefore be tempted to say that this is another instance of the nasty 
colonial legacy which ought to be replaced. But if one goes on to ask how a 
particular "package" of royalties, occupation fees and compensation payments 
could and would be distributed within a landowning community if not on the basis 
of customary titles delineated on a map, the answer is not so obvious* 

In my own capacity as a consultant, I have experienced first-hand the 
difficulty of recommending strategies to 'lessen undesirable social impacts on the 
local community, whether they be company or government strategies, while 
recognizing that community liaison programmes of all sorts may be largely 
irrelevant to the basic issue, which is the process of social disintegration 
engendered by the economic relationship between the company, the government 
and the community. The trouble is that there may be no economic relationship 
between the landowners and the developers which will curtail this process, given 
the dimensions of the project and the original demands of the landowners or their 
leaders. Changes can be made in the size or composition of the package(s) to be 
offered to the landowners, or in the method of negotiating agreements with them 
(including the 'forum'), or in the design of community liaison programmes, but no 
one is going to get very far with a suggestion that the companies or the 
government should try to persuade local landowners, in advance, that 
compensation is bad for them, because the landowners will surely believe that this 
is a confidence trick (they might be right), and because the whole tenor of 
government policy (and popular opinion) is shifting in favour of a bigger package 
(and a more extensive process of consultation). 

THE BOTTOM LINE 

I do not wish to seem overly pessimistic. No doubt there are some steps 
which can be taken, either by the companies or by the government, within existing 
political constraints, to limit the social damage caused by successive mining 
projects, and thus improve the prospects and the public image of the mining 
industry as a whole. Even if my own caricature of the process of social 
disintegration fits the Panguna case, political and cultural contingencies, including 
the demonstration effect of the present crisis, will surely prevent any precise 
repetition of this process. 

If it were possible, at this time, to verify my suggestion that landowner 
compensation packages are time bombs which can be expected to explode about 
twenty years after they are first negotiated, as in the Panguna case, then mining 
companies might be tempted to look for projects which would not last more than 
(say) fifteen years. But the hypothesis will only be verified by experience, and the 



COLIN FILER 27 



industry has many other factors lo consider when determining the optimum 
lifetime of a mining project, so one should not expect the mining companies to 
adopt 'high-grading' strategies simply because of the risk of being shut down by 
another Francis Ona in the year 2005 (for example). 

Other mining companies can distance themselves from the misfortunes of 
BCL, but the Papua New Guinea government cannot distance itself from the 
Bougainville crisis, because one of the social costs of that crisis has been the 
authority of the state itself. (In the game of strip poker, the state has suddenly lost 
a lot of its clothes.) If 'the government", or some agency of government, were to 
decide that the social cost of large-scale mining projects was really very 
substantial, especially in view of the national goal for 'traditional villages and 
communities to remain as viable units of Papua New Guinean society', then the 
question would be whether the addition of this negative social impact to the 
admittedly negative impact of each mining project on the physical environment 
outweighed the economic benefit to the nation or the state. This may seem like a 
stark choice - mining or no mining, 'yes-or-no' (as Francis Ona would say) - but 
bureaucrats and politicians both have ways of fudging this question, so we should 
not expect r thc government 1 as a whole to make any firm and lasting decision in 
respect of the industry as a whole. 

However, inaction or indecision on the part of the authorities, like refusal to 
recognize the problem in the first place, or eagerness to abnegate responsibility for 
dealing with it, can better be understood when the problem turns out to be an 
insoluble riddle. The problem is that rural villagers want 'development', and they 
would like to experience economic development without the loss of social 
harmony. The militant Panguna landowners seem to have experienced a loss of 
social harmony and a relationship of economic dependency as a result of the 
compensation package accepted by their own predecessors. But there is no 
obvious way of marshalling community support without a compensation package; 
concessions to landowners can only take the form of increased material benefits, 
while the recipients, and even their successors, may not become aware of the 
negative social impact of these "benefits' until it is too late - if then. The package 
is essential to the project, the package is a time bomb, but new compensation 
packages can and have to be negotiated for new projects, if there are any new 
projects, now that the first time bomb has gone off. 

NOTES 



An earlier and shorter version of this paper was presented to a seminar on The North 
Solomons situation: issues and options', held at the University of Papua New Guinea, 8- 
9 September 1989. I should like to thank John Burton, Jim Griffin, Phil Hughes, 



28 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



Richard Jackson, Peter Larmour, Tim Omundsen, Tony Regan, Vincent Warakai, Martin 
Ward and Michael Young for their comments on an earlier draft 

1 One or both of these arguments recur in many of the publications dealing with the 
development of Bougainvillean secessionism in the period 1966-74 (Crocombe 1968; 
Hannett 1969a, 1969b; Stent 1970; Fingleton 1970; Middlemiss 1970; Ogan 1971a, 
1974; Momis and Ogan 1972; Griffin 1972, 1982; Dove et aK 1974; Mamak and Bedford 
1974; Bedford and Mamak 1979). So far as the Nasioi are concerned, die best evidence in 
favour of the first argument is Ogan's (1972) report of fieldwork conducted in the period 
1962-64, but the argument is not pursued in Oliver's (1973) history of Bougainville. 
The best evidence in favour of the second argument is to be found in Bedford and 
Mamak's (1977) account of relationships between the landowners, the mining company 
and the colonial administration from 1964 to 1974, but this account certainly plays down 
the significance of internal political divisions within the landowning community (Ogan 
1971a, 1974, 1985; Mamak and Bedford 1974; Griffin 1982). These are not the only 
arguments which have been put forward in explanation of the original secessionist 
movement (see Hannett 1969a; Hastings 1976; Griffin 1976), but they have certainly 
outlasted the others, and both have been resurrected in the context of the present crisis 
(see Ketsimur, Griffin, Ogan, Grynberg, Toro, and Priests of Bougainville Diocese, all 
1989), 

2 Aside from the real or imagined grievances of local landowners and other ordinary 
Bougainvilleans, the story has retained its mythical significance because it serves to 
explain or justify both the institutions of provincial and community government 
(Conyers 1976; Connell 1977; Griffin 1982) and the formation of the national 
government's mineral development policy (Zorn and Bayne 1975; Mikesell 1975; 
O'Faircheallaigh 1984a), 

3 In the context of the present crisis, this story has been revived in the form of an 
argument regarding the respective roles of Sir Julius Chan, then Prime Minister, Father 
John Momis, then (as now) Minister for Provincial Affairs, and Mr Leo Hannett, then 
Premier of North Solomons Province (see Hannett 1989; Momis 1989). 

4 In view of the prospect of a large-scale gold mine on Lihir Island, in his own 
(Namatanai) constituency, Sir Julius is said to have told the islanders that they were 
living in a "sociological time-bomb', and 'potentially a worse "time-bomb" than 
Bougainville' (Post-Courier, 4 August 1986). 

* Despite the enormous volume of literature on nationalism, micronationalism, 
regionalism, tribalism, and parochialism in Papua New Guinea, I am not aware of any 
systematic study of the relative significance of physical criteria (for example, skin colour) 
and cultural criteria (for example, tribal fighting) in the ethnic perceptions of Papua New 
Guineans. But it is clear from everyday observation that there is a very great range of 
criteria involved, Aside from the secessionist literature previously cited, Imbun (1989) 
has provided some interesting insights into the complexity of the ethnic relationships 
prevailing amongst Papua New Guineans in the Arawa-Panguna area at the start of the 
current crisis. 

6 Hannett (1969a) argued for the existence of a traditional 'culture area' which embraced 
the black-skinned peoples of Bougainville and the Western Solomon Islands, but it is 
difficult to demonstrate such arguments from the ethnographic evidence, Oliver (1973) 
manages to construct a number of generalizations about 'Bougainvillean culture', but he 
does not claim that they are exclusively true of Bougainville (or the Solomon Islands), 
and they are largely based on his own (1955) observations of Siwai society. 



CO UN FILER 29 



7 See May 1982 and references therein. The literature on local protest movements 
(including 'cargo cults') in the late colonial period is immense, but there are clearly high- 
level regional variations in timing and content. 

8 My own argument would be that Bougainviliean nationalism has always been a hybrid 
phenomenon. Crocombe (1968) says that the idea of secession was being actively 
discussed by educated Bougainvilleans before the viability of the mining project was 
established; Ogan (1972,1974) says that sections of the Nasioi language group (Catholics 
rather than Protestants) exhibited a "cargoistic 7 mentality in the same period; and Bedford 
and Mamak (1977) have documented the violent confrontations which then took place 
between villagers, geologists and government officers (mainly in Guava Census 
Division), while Paul Lapun was trying to amend the Mining Ordinance in the House of 
Assembly. These were amongst the ingredients of Bougainviliean nationalism, but the 
development of the mining project after the grant of the Special Mining Lease (in April 
1969) is what mixed them ail together, 

9 Angry landowners looted the Panguna supermarket in July 1979. Mining operations 
were halted for a few days in September 1981 when landowners erected a roadblock on the 
Arawa -Panguna road to demonstrate their support for renegotiation of the 1974 mining 
agreement. 

10 This at least was the apparent motivation of the strike (Post-Courier. 29 February and 
4 March 1988) although the landowners had a number of other long-standing grievances 
(sec Hyndman 1987; Bickerton 1988). 

11 Evidence of the views held by the new Panguna Landowners' Association leadership in 
the months preceding the wave of sabotage in November- December 1988 is obviously 
crucial to the argument presented here, but is now liable to be obscured by subsequent 
public debate over the development of the crisis itself. My own sources are threefold. 
Firstly, I sent a team of University of Papua New Guinea students to investigate 
landowner-company relationships in April 1988 (see Okole 1989), shortly after the new 
Panguna Landowners' Association leadership had organized a demonstration in support of 
their demands, and I have since had access to a number of documents which relate to the 
negotiations which took place at that time. Secondly, I was able to attend a meeting held 
in New Dapera village on 2 November 1988, at which leaders of the new Panguna 
Landowners' Association (including Francis Ona, Philip Miriori and Cecilia Gcmel) 
addressed a visiting delegation of landowners from Lihir Island, and subsequently 
conducted my own interviews with Messrs Ona and Miriori. And thirdly, I have referred 
to the record (almost a transcript) of another meeting, held in Guava village on 16 
November 1988, at which leaders of the new Panguna Landowners' Association 
(including Perpctua Serero, Philip Miriori and Cecilia Gemel) addressed the team of 
consultants which had been engaged (by the Department of Minerals and Energy) to 
investigate the landowners' grievances. This record appears as Appendix II of the report 
produced by these consultants (Applied Geology Associates 1989), and I can vouch for 
the fact that the views which it contains are very similar to those expressed at the 
previous meeting in New Dapera. Francis Ona had a good deal to say about the 'white 
mafia' at the New Dapera meeting; the record of the Guava meeting contains six hostile 
statements about 'whiles' and a comparable number of complaints about BougainvH leans 
who have supposedly sold out to the mining company, including landowners, politicians, 
and those BCL staff described as 'the black men in top offices', but there is only one 
statement which specifically targets other Papua New Guineans - the complaint that 
'most [small BCL] contracts are owned by redskins who also cause social problems'. 
Apart from criticisms of the national government, I have found no evidence of anti- 



30 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



the new Panguna Landowners' Association leadership in die period from March to May 
1988. 

12 For this and subsequent references to the National Goals and Directive Principles (the 
Preamble to the National Constitution), see Bninton and Colqhoun-Kerr 1984:1-24, The 
'myth of Melanesian communism' is expounded in a wide range of writings by members 
of the national political elite, most notably by the present Minister of Justice, Bernard 
Narokobi (1980,1983,1989). While Narokobi is a member of the Melanesian Alliance 
Party, like John Momis and (formerly) John Kaputin, who were leading members of the 
Constitutional Planning Committee (Deklin 1989), his own philosophy cannot be 
narrowly described as the ideology of this particular party. 

S The analysis which follows is part of a longstanding tradition in the anthropological 
analysis of social change in rural Melanesia which emphasizes the clement of instability 
and even conflict which occurs in the political life of village communities, as leaders, 
factions and generations make different decisions about the best way to achieve 
'development' or the good life. This might be described as 'road theory', because it pays 
particular attention to the way that village people (at least in New Guinea) talk about 
these decisions as choices between 'roads' - as in rot bilong kastom, rot bilong kaunsil, 
rot bilong bisnis r or rot bilong kago. In the Bougainvillean context, Ogan's writings are 
probably the best example of this sort of analysis. 

14 The national Department of Lands (including the Land Titles Commission) 
administers a standard bureaucratic process for the registration and lease of customary 
land, including land required for mining projects. This cumbersome process has not 
changed in any significant detail since the colonial period - much to the annoyance and 
frustration of many would-be developers (Moi et al. 1983; James 1985). Mining 
companies have no option but to follow the requirements of this process. 

15 This argument is advanced at some length in Filer and Jackson 1989:chs 4 and 10. 
Application of this argument to customary land tenure in southern Bougainville is 
hindered by the lack of published evidence (see Burton 1989), which is restricted to 
Ogan's anecdotal paper on the Nasioi (1971b) and sections of Oliver's (1955) and 
Mitchell's (1976) books on the Siwai and Nagovisi respectively. 

16 In a document produced in March 1988 (signed Francis Ona, Perpetua Serero, Damien 
Damen) it is stated that 'members of land owners association were not [sic] been aware of 
the contents of the Land Tide Agreement' and 'there has never been a proper survey done 
on every piece of leased land within the [1980?] Mining Lease Agreement." In a 
simultaneous petition to the company and the government, the new Panguna 
Landowners' Association claimed that 'the Land Title Agreement object [is inconsistent 
with?] the customary laws [of land tenure?]'. In a letter to the BCL managing director (5 
May 1989), Serero and Ona asked 'husat tru i bin go pas long katim mining lease 
boundary insait long ol ground bilong rnipela? Ol papa bilong ground or yu company 
yet?' (Who took the lead in demarcating the mining lease boundary on our ground? The 
landowners or you the company?) The company's response, not surprisingly, was that 
"any queries, disputes or complaints about land ownership within all mine lease areas 
should be referred to the Land Titles Commission. The Commission is the authority 
that determined and registered the land blocks, title holders and areas in terms of hectares 
... Individual landowners were aware and involved with the Land Titles Commission in 
determining land ownership,' (The same could be said of all subsequent mining projects 
in Papua New Guinea,) But at the Guava village meeting (16 November 1988), the new 
Panguna Landowners' Association leadership was still saying that 'there must be a new 
land review; there are too many disputes over overlapping ownership, since ihc surveyors 



COLIN FILER 31 



17 At the Guava village meeting (16 November 1988): 'The original agreement over-rode 
our customs, denied us our land rights and was too rushed. It contradicts our way of life: 
what comes from the land should benefit the landowners. Only land title holders (850 of 
them) gam the benefits. Nobody else ... There are only five beneficiaries in Guava; 
we're only secondary beneficiaries. When the money is distributed from occupation fees 
and royalties the share is not enough for any of us, since there are two clans in Guava and 
one has more than a hundred people. Its not our job to settle these distribution issues.' 
My students also reported complaints about the problem of distribution (Okole 1989), 

18 Again at the Guava village meeting (16 November 1988): The Company has created 
classes in our society, where there were none before the Company came. Family 
disputes have now occurred over land, even within families and within villages/ 

19 The twelve were: Michael Pariu, Gregory Kopa, John Arevoka, Wendelinus 
Bitanuma, Kareoto Tonna, Michael Totombu, Steven Tampura, Mathew Kove, Denis 
Onana, Nelson Open, lenu Dapoi, and Peter Nandopa. Michael Pariu was the original 
organizer of the 'old 1 Panguna Landowners 1 Association, Mathew Kove was the Guava 
village representative. Wendelinus Bitanuma seems at some stage to have 'defected' to 
the new Panguna Landowners' Association, 

20 At the Guava village meeting (16 November 1988): 'We see no evidence of the 
operations of the Trust Fund, except that it benefits a very small group of people. 
Mathew Kove and Seven nus Ampaoi were the people who gave our land away. They are 
doing the same with the Trust Fund, It's just a cover-up to keep us all quiet. [Paul] 
Quodling [former managing director of BCL] fooled the old men. We were all happy 
when it started. Now we have tried to change the leaders at the AGMs, but the only way 
we can do it is when they leave in coffins,' Severinus Ampaoi was head of BCL's Village 
Relations Office at the time of the 1980 compensation agreement. In 1988 he was 
chairman of the Trust Fund and also on the boards of the nationally-owned Bougainville 
Development Corporation and BCL's own 'trust fund', the Bougainville Copper 
Foundation. The question of whether the Trust Fund was or was not 'mismanaged' under 
his chairmanship is a complex one, which has been the subject of extensive litigation 
since the new Panguna Landowners' Association leaders broke into the Trust Fund offices 
in August 1988 (sec Applied Geology Associates 1989:7.1 1-15; Michael 1989). Nor 
should it be imagined that Mr Ampaoi is the only local capitalist to have attracted the 
wrath of the militants. 

21 Although Nash (1974) has argued that the matrilineal principle was alive and well in 
Nagovisi society during the period of her field work (1969-70), when cash-cropping was 
already well established, other studies in the New Guinea Islands region have indicated 
that Nagovisi may be a special case (see Jessep 1987 and references therein). There is no 
published evidence on the subsequent impact of the mining project on the Nagovisi 
recipients. My own observations suggest that the matrilineal principle is already in 
decline amongst the would-be titleholders of the Lihir project, although no mining 



22 At the Guava village meeting (16 November 1988): 'BCL must pay all the landowners 
since our land is almost finished ... They must put the land back to its original state, 
but it's too late.' 

23 References to the decline of matrilineal inheritance have largely been implicit in the 
statements of the new Panguna Landowners' Association leadership (as in previous 
quotations from the record of the Guava village meeting), but there is no more eloquent 
statement of this problem than the abduction and possible assassination of Mathew 
Kove, the maternal uncle of Francis Ona and Perpetua Serero, in January 1989. It is 




32 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



Perpetua Serero seems to have denied all knowledge on her deathbed (Times of Papua 
New Guinea, 15 June 1989). The problem of matriUneal inheritance, at [east in Guava 
village, has all the elements of a Greek tragedy, 

24 There is a substantial body of ethnographic literature devoted to the relationship 
between 'traditional" and modern forms of material inequality in Melanesian village 
communities (see the review by Morauta 1984), and which thus has a bearing on my 
very summary discussion of the problems of distribution, inheritance and stratification in 
the Panguna context. This discussion is not meant to imply thai 'traditional society' in 
Southern Bougainville was a society of equals (see Oliver 1971). 

25 The new Panguna Landowners' Association leadership regards the 1979 Panguna 
supermarket riot as the first political act of the third generation. According to a 
contemporary newspaper account (Post-Courier, 12 July 1979): 'A mob of 300 to 400 
young Bougainvilleans caused K200,000 damage when they ransacked and looted the 
Panguna supermarket yesterday. The incident occurred while village and community 
government leaders were meeting with executives of BCL to discuss land occupation fees. 
The supermarket, set up by the Bougainville Development Foundation [now the 
Bougainville Copper Foundation], feeds all its profits into community development ... 
While [they were] negotiating with BCL, a new lot of leaders arose from the crowd and 
marched on the supermarket [my italics]/ The story goes on to describe the looting 
process, which was interrupted by the arrival of a squad of about forty policemen, who 
made seven arrests. It is somewhat ironic that the Supermarket Seven were bailed out 
that same day by BCL staff, 

26 The full quotation (from the record of the Guava village meeting) is; 'Mining causes 
mental illness and asthma/ Perpetua Serero died of an asthma attack on 14 June 1989. I 
have heard Francis Ona expound the brain damage theory. The Applied Geology 
Associates report documents the local view that environmental pollution has had a 
negative effect on people's physical and mental health (Applied Geology Associates 
1989:4.27-30), 

27 This included the commissioning of the Applied Geology Associates report itself. 
The consultants could not establish any physical link between mining operations and the 
health status of the local population - a conclusion which was utterly unacceptable to the 
new Panguna Landowners' Association leaders. BCL's own staff have apparently 
confronted a blank wall in their attempts to disabuse local schoolchildren of the belief in 
this connection (Bob Cornelius, personal communication). 

28 Before the start of the bombing campaign, some of BCLs national staff subscribed to 
the theory that Serero and Ona really were insane, like the T cargo cult' leader Damien 
Damen. The Applied Geology Associates report found that 'a significant proportion' of 
the landowners were suffering from a 'dependency' complex, which incidentally explained 
their tendency to hypochondria. In the context of a well-armed and well-organized 
uprising, these perspectives seem inadequate, 

2 ^ The petition presented to the company and the government (by Serero, Ona and 
Damen) on 11 March 1988, contained only the one demand: 'Land owners wish to stop 
the mine by stopping National Government and BCL from renewing the BCL Mining 
Agreement; The ten billion kina demand seems to have been formulated after the 
company replied (on 24 March) to the original petition. The original objective has since 
been achieved. 

30 I do not wish to imply that other forms of capital investment in rural areas have no 
such effect. On the other hand, there clearly are certain respects in which large-scale 
mining projects have a greater local impact than do forestry or i 



COLIN FILER 33 



31 The "package" is not formally a part of the Mining Development Contract concluded 
between the national government and the mining company, and may not be legally 
enforceable. The Porgera landowners made this unwelcome discovery when the Enga 
Liquor Licensing Commission flagrantly ignored one of the provisions in the 
'memorandum of understanding" (Post-Courier, 13 July and 7 August 89). 

32 Amongst the commentaries which have so far been published on the Bougainville 
crisis, Grynberg's (1989) comes closest to combining both of these perspectives, Roman 
Grynberg was on the Prime Minister's staff until June 1989. He also held meetings with 
the new Panguna Landowners' Association leadership before the crisis broke. But, 
despite his grassroots sympathies, Gryn berg's economic perspective damned him in the 
eyes of the new Panguna Landowners' Association as another member of the 'white 
mafia' who simply 'came and greased us, tried to buy us off and told us to buy shares'. 

33 These 'distributional aspects 1 of Papua New Guinea mineral policy (including the 
vexed question of whether the state or the landowners own the minerals in the first place) 
were widely discussed in the 1980s (Jackson 1984, 1989; O'Faircheallaigh 1984b; Tilton 
et al 1986; Polume 1988; Grynberg 1988; Donigi 1988; Millett 1988a, 1988b). 
Especially important in the present context is the (1988) report of the Working Party 
established by the National Premiers' Council, to which the "forum/package concept" was 
partly a response. 

34 The Panguna SE1S (Scott 1973) was commissioned by BCL (after the start of mining 
operations). Equivalent studies for the Ok Tedi project were commissioned by the 
Department of Finance (Jackson 1977) and then the Department of Minerals and Energy 
(Jackson et aL 1980). Those for Misirna (Gerritsen and Macintyre 1986), Lihir (Filer and 
Jackson 1986, 1989), Porgera (Pacific Agribusiness 1987), Wapolu (Young 1987), and 
Hidden Valley (Jackson 1988a) were all produced under Department of Minerals and 
Energy co-ordination. The first of the studies commissioned under the new deal was for 
the controversial Mount Karc project (Jackson 1988b). 

35 This quotation is from the Terms of Reference for the original Lihir SEIS (Filer and 
Jackson 1986), but others have been very similar. 

36 The new arrangement actually tends to bring the mining industry into alignment with 
long-standing practice in the forestry sector. Environmental plans for logging projects 
have been notoriously weak in their analysis of social impacts, though it could be argued 
that all aspects of logging projects look shoddy next to the grandeurs of the mining 
industry, 

37 The first (and perhaps the last) of the 'baseline planning studies' was the one done for 
the (now dormant) Lakekamu gold project (Filer and Iamo 1989). 

38 Fr Momis made this accusation when he launched his 'Bougainville Initiative' to 'tame 
the BCL pig' in the run-up to the 1987 national elections (Post-Courier t 6 and 8 May 
1987). It recurs in the previously cited record of the Guava village meeting of 16 
November 1988, and was certainly a major theme of the new Panguna Landowners' 
Association leadership. Although some commentators have suggested that the 'Initiative' 
was partly responsible for the present crisis, this particular accusation has long been a 
commonplace in public discussion of the mining industry. 

39 For many years the government had a remarkably low profile in the area around the 
Panguna mine. To give but one example, the present head of BCL's Village Relations 
Office, Philip Mapah, was the last f kiap* to be stationed in the area. 



34 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



REFERENCES 



Applied Geology Associates Fty Lid 

1989 Environmental socio-economic public health review: Bougainville Copper 
Mine, Panguna. Wellington, Hew Zealand. 

Bedford, Richard and Mamak, Alexander. 

1977 Compensating for development: the Bougainville case. Christchurch, New 
Zealand: Department of Geography, University of Canterbury (Bougainville 
Special Publication no.2). 
1979 Bougainville Copper mineworkers' strike, 1975. In Alexander Mamak and 
Ahmed Ali (eds) Race, class and rebellion in the South Pacific, pp,76-85. 
Sydney: Allen & Unwin, 

Biekerton, K. 

1985 Perceptions and reality: cargoism and development in the Western Province, 
Wheaton, Illinois: Wheaton College. 

1988 Mine shutdown was no surprise, Post-Courier, 10 March, 

Brunton, Brian and Colqhoun-Kcrr, Duncan. 

1984 The annotated Constitution of Papua New Guinea. Watgani: University of 
Papua New Guinea Press. 

Burton, John 

1989 The land tenure system of the Nasioi people: and the bare cupboard of 
sustained research in mining areas- Paper presented to the University of 
Papua New Guinea seminar on The North Solomons situation: issues and 
options^ September 1989, 

Connell, John (ea\) 

1977 Local government councils in Bougainville. Christchurch, New Zealand: 
Department of Geography, University of Canterbury (Bougainville Special 
Publication no.3). 

Conyers, Diana 

1976 The provincial government debate: central control versus local participation 
in Papua New Guinea. Boroko, Papua New Guinea: Institute of Applied 
Social and Economic Research (Monograph 2). 

Crocombe, R.G. 

1968 Bougainville: copper, CRA and secession ism. New Guinea 3(3): 39-47. 
Deklin, T. 

1989 In search of a home-grown constitution: the constitutional development in 
Papua New Guinea between 1962 and 1975. In Sione Latukcfu (ed,) Papua 
New Guinea: a century of colonial impact. Port Moresby: National Research 
Institute and University of Papua New Guinea Press. 

Donigi, P. 

1988 State or the people: who has the right to the nation's resources? Times of 
Papua New Guinea, 7 and 14 July, 



COLIN FILER 35 



Dove, J., Miriung, T. and Togolo, M. 

1974 Mining bitterness. In Peter G. Sack (ed.) Problem of choice: land in Papua 
New Guineas future, pp. 18 1-1 89; Canberra: Australian National University 
Press. 

Filer, Colin S. and Jackson, Richard 

1986 The social and economic impact of a gold mine on Lihir. Konedobu, Papua 

New Guinea: Lihir Liaison Committee. 
1989 The social and economic impact of a gold mine on Lihir: revised and 

expanded (2 vols). Konedobu, Papua New Guinea: Lihir Liaison Committee, 

Filer, Colin S. and Iamo,W. 

1989 Base-tine planning study for the Lakekamu gold project. Konedobu, Papua 
New Guinea: Department of Minerals and Energy. 

Finglcton, W. 

1970 Bougainville: a chronicle of just grievances. New Guinea 5(2): 13-20. 

Gcrritscn, Rolf and Macintyre, Martha 

1986 Social impact study of the Misima gold mine (2 vols). Boroko, Papua New 
Guinea: Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research. 

Griffin, James 

1972 Bougainville - secession or just sentiment? Current Affairs Bulletin 
48(9):259-280, 

1976 Kieta, Honiara and Port Moresby: hidden but not unknown. New Guinea 
10(4):43-50. 

1982 Napidakoe Navku. In RJ« May (ed,) Micronationalist movements in Papua 
New Guinea, pp.1 13-138. Canberra: Department of Political and Social 
Change (Monograph 1), Research School of Pacific Studies, The Australian 
National University. 

1989 Bougainville - a people apart. Times of Papua New Guinea, 6 April. 

Grynberg, R. 

1988 Mining and property rights. Times of Papua New Guinea, 5 May, 

1989 Let them eat tailings'. Post-Courier, 7 July. 

Hannett, Leo 

1969a Down Kieta way: independence for Bougainville? New Guinea 4(1):8-14. 
1969b Resuming Arawa; discrimination against the whites? New Guinea 4(2):72~ 
74. 

1989 My stand on the Bougainville crisis. Times of Papua New Guinea, 3 
August 

Hastings, Peter 

1976 Bougainville and the Solomons: an inevitable union? New Guinea 10(3): 33- 
4L 

Hyndman, D.C. 

1987 Mining, modernization, and movements of social protest in Papua New 
Guinea. Social Analysis 21(3):20-38. 



36 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



Imbun, B. 

1989 'In Panguna we are brothers': the social life and consciousness of an urban 
Engan community (BA Hons sub-thesis). Waigani: Department of 
Anthropology and Sociology, University of Papua New Guinea, 

Jackson, Richard T. 

1977 Kiunga development study: draft. Waigani: Department of Finance. 

1984 A progress report on the monitoring of Ok Tedi and some policy questions 
relating to mining in Papua New Guinea In D. Gupta and S. Polume (eds) 
Economic policy issues and options in Papua New Guinea, Canberra: 
National Centre for Development Studies (Working Paper 41), Research 
School of Pacific Studies, The Australian National University. 

1988a The social and economic impact of the Hidden Valley gold project. 

Konedobu, Papua New Guinea: Department of Minerals and Energy. 
1988b Mount Kare colluvial gold project: socio-economic impact study. South 

Melbourne: Mount Kare Mining Pty Ltd. 
1989 'Let them eat theory': is there any viable alternative to mining for the 

development of remote areas in Papua New Guinea? Paper presented to the 

Conference of the Institute of Australian Geographers, Adelaide. 

Jackson, Richard T\, Emerson, C.A. and Welsch, R. 

1980 The impact of the Ok Tedi project. Konedobu, Papua New Guinea: 
Department of Minerals and Energy. 

James, R.W. 

1985 Land law and policy in Papua New Guinea. Boroko, Papua New Guinea: 
Law Reform Commission (Monograph 5). 

Jessep, O. 

1987 Pigs, children and land among the Barok of New Ireland. Waigani: Land 
Studies Centre (Occasional Paper 87/1), University of Papua New Guinea. 

Ketsimur, C. 

1989 Panguna: who's really to blame? Post-Courier^ 20 February. 

Mamak, Alexander and Bedford, Richard 

1 974 Bougainvillean nationalism: aspects of unity and discord. Christchurch, New 
Zealand: Department of Geography, University of Canterbury (Bougainville 
Special Publication no.l). 

May, R J. (ed.) 

1982 Micronationalist movements in Papua New Guinea. Canberra: Department 
of Social and Political Change (Monograph 1), Research School of Pacific 
Studies, The Australian National University. 

Michael, G. 

1989 Assessment of the controversial RMTL Trust Fund. Unpublished field work 
report. 



COLIN FILER 37 



MiddLcmiss, BJ,A, 

1970 Napidakoe Navitu. In Marion W. Ward (ed.) The politics of Melanesia: 
papers delivered at the 4th Waigani Seminar, pp, 100-104. Canberra: 
Research School of Pacific Studies, The Australian National University, and 
The University of Papua New Guinea, Port Moresby. 

Mikesell, R.F. 

1975 Foreign investment in copper mining: case studies of mines in Peru and 
Papua New Guinea. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. 

Millett, J, 

1988a Minerals and the landowner, Post-Courier, 26 August 

1 988b Are some provinces more equal than others? Post-Courier, 21 October. 

Mitchell, D.D. 

1976 Land and agriculture in Nagovisi, Papua New Guinea. Boroko, Papua New 
Guinea: Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research (Monograph 3). 

Moi, K. et al. 

1983 Report of the Task Force on Customary Land Issues: presented to the 
Minister for Lands, April 1983. Port Moresby. 

Momis, J. 

1989 Bougainville - causes and solutions. Post-Courier, 27 September. 

Momis, J. and Ogan, E> 

1972 A view from Bougainville. In Marion W.Ward (ed.) Change and 
development in rural Melanesia: papers delivered at the 5th Waigani Seminar, 
1971 , pp.106-118. Canberra: Research School of Pacific Studies, The 
Australian National University, and The University of Papua New Guinea, 
Port Moresby . 

Morauta, Louise 

1984 Social stratification in lowland Papua New Guinea: issues and questions. In 
RJ. May (ed.) Social stratification in Papua New Guinea. Canberra: 
Department of Political and Social Change (Working Paper 5), Research 
School of Pacific Studies, The Australian National University. 

Narokobi, B. 

1980 The Meianesian way. Boroko, Papua New Guinea: Institute of Papua New 
Guinea Studies. 

1983 Life and leadership in Melanesia, Suva: University of Papua New Guinea 
and Institute of Pacific Studies, University of the South Pacific. 

1989 Lo bilong yumi yet: law and custom in Melanesia, Suva: Melanesian 
Institute for Pastoral and Socio-Economic Service and University of the 
South Pacific. 

Nash, Jill 

1974 Matriliny and modernization: the Nagovisi of South Bougainville (New 
Guinea Research Bulletin 55), Canberra: Australian National University 
Press. 



38 CANBERRA ANTHROPOLOGY 13(1) 1990 



O'Faircheallaigh, C. 

1 984a Mining and development: foreign-financed mines in Australia, Ireland, Papua 

New Guinea and Zambia. London: Croom Helm. 
1984b Review of Papua New Guinea's mineral policy 1964-82: some preliminary 



Ogan, Eugene 

1971a Charisma and race- In A.L. Epstein, R.S. Parker and Marie Reay (eds) The 
politics of dependence: Papua New Guinea 1968, pp. 132-161, Canberra: 
Australian National University Press. 

1971b Nasioi land tenure: an extended case study. Oceania 42(2): 8 1-93. 

1972 Business and cargo: socio-economic change among the Nasioi of 
Bougainville (New Guinea Research Bulletin 44). Canberra: Australian 
National University Press . 

1974 Cargoism and politics in Bougainville 1962-1972. Journal of Pacific 
History 9:117-129. 

1985 Participant observation and participant history in Bougainville. In Deborah 
Gewertz and Edward L.Schicffelin (eds) History and ethnohistory in Papua 
New Guinea (Oceania Monograph 28), pp. 127 -144. Sydney: University of 
Sydney. 

1989 Plans to aid Papua New Guinea favour wealthy, not underdogs. Times of 
Papua New Guinea, 6 July. 

Okole, H. 

1989 The Panguna landowners 1 organisations. Paper presented to the University of 
Papua New Guinea seminar on The North Solomons situation: issues and 
options', September 1989. 

Oliver, Douglas 

1955 A Solomon Island society: kinship and leadership among the Siuai of 
Bougainville. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press. 

1971 Southern Bougainville, In Ronald M. Bemdt and Peter Lawrence (eds) 
Politics in New Guinea, pp. 276-297. Nedtands: University of Western 
Australia Press. 

1973 Bougainville: a personal history. Melbourne: Melbourne University Press, 

Papua New Guinea National Premiers Council 

1988 Report of the Mining and Petroleum Working Committee. Unpublished. 

Pacific Agribusiness Pty Ltd 

1987 Social and economic impact study: Porgera gold mine (2 vols). South 
Melbourne. 

Pintz, William S. 

1984 Ok Tedi: evolution of a Third World mining project, London: Mining 
Journal Books. 




COLIN FILER 39 



PoJume, Samson 

1988 Mineral resources and the ethics of development In Philip J. Hughes and 
Charmian Thirhvall (eds) The ethics of development: choices in development 
planning (vol 4 of Papers from the 17th Waigani Seminar, 1986), pp.204- 
221 . Port Moresby: University of Papua New Guinea Press. 

Priests of Bougainville Diocese 

1989 The Bougainville crisis: a church perspective, Post-Courier, 24 and 28 
August. 

Scott, WD. & Co. 

1973 A study of the impact of the Bougainville Copper Project on the economy 
and society of Papua New Guinea. Sydney. 

Senge, F. 

1989a A minister goes missing in action. Post-Courier, 29 March. 
1989b PM must look for answers at Waigani. Post-Courier, 19 May. 

Siaguru, T. 

1988 Bougainville: symptoms of a wider disorder. Post-Courier, 9 December. 

1989 Bougainville: it's time for the leaders to take the lead. Post-Courier, 26 
May. 

Stent, W.R. 

1970 Bougainville: what is truth? New Guinea 5(2):6-12, 

Tilton, L, Millett, J. and Ward, R. 

1986 Mineral and mining policy in Papua New Guinea. Port Moresby: Institute 
of National Affairs (Discussion Paper 24). 

Toro, A. 

1989 Bougainville: the view from the grassroots. Post-Courier, 28 July. 
Young, Michael W. 

1987 Wapolu gold mining project; a socio-economic impact study. Canberra: 
Anuiech Ply Ltd. 

Zorn, Jean G, and Bayne, Peter (eds) 

1975 Foreign investment, international law and national development; papers 
presented at the 7th Waigani Seminar, 1973. Sydney: Butterworths, 



