Solar Energy Even After Sundown 

Next-Generation Solar Towers May Soon Tap Sun’s Energy 


From above, the Solar One electric power 
plant in the California desert resembles an expan¬ 
sive glass flower, mirrors blossoming outward 
from its central tower like delicate reflective 
petals. 

On a cloudless summer’s day, the solar power 
research facility near Barstow, Calif., once pro¬ 
duced enough electricity to power 10,000 to 
20,000 homes — not much compared to today’s 

On a cloudless summer’s day, Solar 
One once produced enough electric¬ 
ity to power 10,000 to 20,000 homes. 

oil and coal power plants, but enough to provide 
researchers with a ray of hope for solar power 
technologies. 

Since testing was completed in late 1988, 
however, the plant has lain dormant, a legacy of 
the largest experiment ever in a solar power tech¬ 
nology, called solar central receiver technology, 
developed primarily at Sandia. 

But according to Greg Kolb and Jim Chavez 
of Solar Thermal Electric Technology Dept. 6217, 
a consortium of utility companies led by Southern 
California Edison (SoCal Edison) is plotting to 
turn Solar One into a newer and better solar central 
(Continued on Page Four) 



SEEING DOUBLE — Sandia researchers have played a key role in developing solar central receiver tech¬ 
nology since the early 1970s. Jim Chavez (left) and Greg Kolb (both 6217) are seen here examining glass on 
one of Sandia’s 25 x 25 foot sun-tracking mirrors, or "heliostats.’’ Similar heliostats will be used to direct sun¬ 
light atop an upgraded solar power tower near Barstow, Calif., called Solar Two. Sandia’s Solar Thermal Test 
Facility can be seen reflected in the heliostat. (Photo by Randy Montoya) 



the revamping. “A1 has committed Sandia to an LDRD program more in line with the 
direction other labs are taking and with what DOE wants,” Peter says. 

Indicative of the change, according to members of the Process Management Team 
(PMT) that designed the new program, is Sandia’s funding for LDRD, which grew from 
$15 million in fiscal 1991 to $34 million this fiscal year, and is expected to reach $45 mil¬ 
lion in FY93. 

A small portion of Sandia’s programmatic funding is set aside each year for the LDRD 
program, which allows the Labs to identify and carry out research projects that focus on 
innovative concepts and help maintain the Labs’ scientific and technical vitality. 

PMT members say the program now targets three general areas for funding proposals: 
core competencies, strategic initiative areas, and — new to LDRD — non-programmatic 
work. 

Proposals that fall within the first two areas get both programmatic and technical 
review, but non-programmatic proposals get only technical review. 

Funding Is All or Nothing 

Another major change in the program falls under funding. Beginning with the current 
call for proposals, funding will be provided at the requested level, or not at all. That change 
was made, PMT members say, to discourage the practice of building excess funding into 

(Continued on Page Five) 


LABINB/VS 


VOL 44, NO. 7 SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES APRIL 3,1992 


LAB NEWS Profiles 
The New Center 
Directors — See 
Page Eight 


SUNSHINE AND FLOWERS — Pat Long of Custodial Services 
Dept. 3426 admires a bed of freshly blooming daffodils that her¬ 
alds the arrival of spring. LAB NEWS Head Photographer Randy 
Montoya found this sign of the season between Bldg. 802 and the 
Technical Library. 


New Look and More Money 


Lab Directed R&D Program 
Dusted Off, Spruced Up 

Sandia’s Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD) program has been 
rolled out to accept proposals, and this year it’s a little like the new-year model of a car: 
The name’s the same but the look is different. 

For starters, there’s now a single process with a designated manager: Peter Mattem of 
Core Competency Support 1010. 

“We’ve also made some improvements in the administration of LDRD this year,” 
Peter says. “In the past, for example, we have run the program with volunteers, but now 
we’re in the process of setting up a small office^edicated to the job.” 

The perspective changed when President A1 Narath decided several months ago to 
increase emphasis on the program, Peter says, and its subsequent evaluation prompted 


The refurbished LDRD program is more in line with the direction 
other labs are taking and with what DOE wants. 













This & That 


Good Thing I’m Such a Nice Guy - If I weren’t. I’m pretty sure I 
could embarrass quite a few folks around the Labs. Maybe you noticed 
that several issues ago we started our “this month in the past” column, 
in which we summarize (in one issue each month) selected Sandia news 
items from 20, 30, and 40 years ago. We get that info by perusing old 
LAB NEWS issues, and I’ve come across some mighty interesting photos of 
some of you people. If I see you around the Labs and break into 
uncontrollable laughter, just assume that I’ve come across a moldy oldie 
of you. 

* * * 

Reluctant Interviewee - When I heard several years ago that 
Executive VP Orval Jones (20) was building a harpsichord, I thought that 
would make a nice LAB NEWS feature. But when I asked him about it, Orval 
said something like, “You shouldn't feature Sandia managers - focus on 
non-managers.” In fact, we like to do just that, but I still thought we 
should feature anyone who does something that unusual. So, I asked again 
when I heard that Orval had completed it, and he agreed - reluctantly. 
Read about it on page ten, and drop us a note at Department 3162 if you 
know about other Sandians - managers or non-managers - who have unique 
or unusual hobbies. 

* * * 

Sandians Aren’t Turnips - They’ve proved that in the past by the 
amount of blood they’ve given - averaging more than 100 pints a month 
over the last few years, says Linda Stefoin of Benefits Administration 
and Employee Services Dept. 3543. But lately, Linda says, the donation 
record has become a bit - well, anemic. Lots of folks in our community 
are helped by volunteers’ gift of blood, so maybe we can get the 
“pintage” back up. The Weekly Bulletin regularly prints dates, times, 
and places for donation, and they’re also posted in various places. 

* * * 

Our Fingers Are Crossed - Preparing the copy for this issue was a 
bit of a challenge because of the many revised organization names and 
numbers created by restructuring. Here’s hoping we got ’em all correct, 
because we wrote the copy before it all became official on April 1. 

* * * 

Coming Attraction - As long as we’re hoping, we’ll say we hope to 
have the annual State of the Labs interview in the next issue. LAB NEWS 
Managing Editor Charles Shirley and Media Relations Team Leader Ace 
Etheridge (3161) interviewed President A1 Narath and Executive VPs Orval 
Jones and Lee Bray recently, and they had some interesting things to say 
about the evolving role of the Labs. If all goes according to plan - and 
it seldom does these days - you can read all about it on April 17. 

* * * 

Acronym Poisoning - That’s what LAB NEWS writer John German said 
he was afraid he’d get after reading a recent issue of one Sandia 
newsletter. I wonder whether some folks will ever learn not to assume 
that every Sandian at birth knows every acronym ever concocted — and new 
ones are springing up every day. Too many people use too many 
unexplained acronyms in print and when speaking before groups. If the 
practice continues, I’ll be forced to call another meeting of the 
Society to Outlaw Dumb Acronyms (SODA). And if the paper deluge doesn’t 
stop around here, I’m gonna consider starting an entirely new group - 
the Society to Outlaw Bureacracy (SOB). »LP 


‘No Frills’ Family 
Days Considered 

Employees are getting a chance to say whether 
they’d like to see Sandia’s sites have a scaled-back 
Family Day-type event this year. Full-fledged 
Family Days — with refreshments, videos, and ex¬ 
hibits galore — were held during 1991 in both Liv¬ 
ermore and Albuquerque. In the past, such events 
have been held every five years or so. 

“In recent months,” says Rod Geer, Manager 
of Public Relations Dept. 3161, “a noticeable 
number of people have mentioned, in writing or 
during meetings with management, that Sandia 
ought to open its gates more often to family. A1 
Narath has said that he agrees with that concept.” 

The March 30 Weekly Bulletin printed a ques¬ 
tionnaire designed to learn what employees want 
to do this year. Rod says, “Our decision will be 
based largely on results of that survey, so we’re 
hoping lots of employees respond by the April 17 
deadline.” 

The questionnaire listed three possibilities for 
1992: 

• No Family Day. 

• A “no-frills” event for family and retirees 
during a Saturday morning in mid-October. 

• A mid-October Saturday morning 
“Employee Appreciation Day” that would include 
an employee/family/retiree gathering, followed 
by a several-hour “no-frills” opening of the 
gates. 

“It takes a well-coordinated effort throughout 
the Labs to hold a Family Day,” Rod says. “Be¬ 
cause sustaining that year in and year out would 
be difficult, we’re suggesting a scaled-back ap¬ 
proach as an option this year — with another op¬ 
tion being to do nothing at all.” 

The scaled-back, or “no frills,” approach trans¬ 
lates essentially into opening the gates so that fam¬ 
ily members can see work places and walk around 
the grounds. But the various organizing commit¬ 
tees used for major Family Days — hospitality, 
plant preparation, tour/exhibit planning, for exam¬ 
ple — would not be established. Organizations 
that prepare exhibits would not use them just for 
this occasion, but would have to ensure their con¬ 
tinued display throughout the year and/or their 
regular use as a communications tool in dealings 
with customers and other contacts. 

Labor-intensive events such as rocket sled and 
water impact facility demonstrations and outdoor 
computer exhibits/demos would not be held. Shut¬ 
tle buses to remote sites would not be used. 

Finally, it would be the responsibility of divi¬ 
sions and sectors to communicate with their em¬ 
ployees about special circumstances and plans in 
their organizations. • 


For Help in Teaching Science 

DOE/Sandia Get Thanks from APS Superintendent 


® LABI\BA/S 


Published Fortnightly on Fridays 

SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 

ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO 87185-5800 
LIVERMORE, CALIFORNIA 94550 
TONOPAH, NEVADA 
NEVADA TEST SITE 
AMARILLO, TEXAS 

Sandia National Laboratories, a prime contractor 
to the US Department of Energy, is operated by 
Sandia Corporation, a subsidiary of American 
Telephone and Telegraph Co. 

LARRY PERRINE, Editor (505/844-1053) 

CHARLES SHIRLEY, Managing Editor (844-5199) 
LINDA DORAN, Writer (844-6210) 

JOHN GERMAN, Writer (844-7842) 

RANDY MONTOYA, Head Photographer (844-5605) 
MARK POULSEN, Photographer and 
Production Coordinator (844-0421) 

JANET CARPENTER, Editorial Assistant (844-7841) 
JUANITA MARTINEZ, Assistant (844-7841) 

LAB NEWS FAX, (505/844-0645) 

BARRY SCHRADER, Livermore Reporter 
(510/294-2447; FTS 234-2447) 


Editor’s Note: Albuquerque Public Schools 
Superintendent Jack Bobroff recently sent Energy 
Secretary James Watkins a letter acknowledging 
the efforts of Sandia Science Advisors. Here is 
what Bobroff wrote: 

Dear Secretary Watkins: 

Having reviewed the evaluation report for the 
first year of the Albuquerque Public Schools’ 
component of the Science Advisors Project 
(SCLAD), I wish to express the appreciation of my 
district for the efforts of the scientists and engi¬ 
neers from Sandia National Laboratories in sup¬ 
port of the enhancement of science education, 
K-8, for the benefit of our children. 

Sustained teacher support, on site, is a rare 
component of any effort; support at 100 schools is 
exemplary. Efforts of scientific personnel to in¬ 
crease teacher content knowledge and comfort in 
teaching science, modeling of what a scientist is 
for children, and help in assessing how positive 
changes in science education can be made in our 
schools are making a noticeable difference in atti¬ 


tudes and activities. Both formal questionnaires 
and unsolicited letters of support attest to this. 

No energy is better directed than that which 
seeks to increase the quality of the educational 
experience to the children who will be doing the 
nation’s work in the decades ahead. We, in the na¬ 
tion’s 26th largest school district, look forward to 
the continued support of the SCIAD project. The 
development of “can do” attitudes and the in¬ 
crease in the number and depth of students who 
are scientifically literate will help the United 
States compete in the next century. 

Sincerely, 

Jack Bobroff 


Welcome 

Albuquerque — Lisa Hooper (7712). Other 
New Mexico — Allen Gonzales (3426), Robert 
Reese (7713). 

Elsewhere: Minnesota — Michael Kent 
(1813); Texas — Thomas Blanchat (6422). 




LAB NEWS • April 3,1992 • Page Three 


Women Role Models 

Frozen Candy, Cola Tests, Other Hands-On Projects 
Highlight ‘Expanding Horizons’ Conference 


Rainy weather didn’t dampen the spirits and 
enthusiasm of 606 young women in grades 6-12 
who spent a recent Saturday at a conference 
called “Expanding Your Horizons in Science and 
Mathematics.” 

The program drew students from 44 cities 
throughout Northern California. In fact, the annual 
conference, co-sponsored by Sandia, Livermore, 
has become so popular that some 400 registrations 
couldn’t be accepted this year because of space 
limitations. 

The program was held at the Pacific Bell Ad¬ 
ministrative Center in San Ramon. More than 100 


“Career possibilities are endless if 
girls take as many math and science 
classes as they can in high school.” 

Sandia volunteers helped stage the event, prepar¬ 
ing and stuffing packets of information, setting up 
equipment and tables, passing out information at 
the Career Fair, directing students, and leading 
several of the 30 hands-on workshops. 

Co-directors of this year’s event were Sheila 
Akins of Component Development Dept. 8441 
from Sandia and Laurlee Fry from Lawrence Liv¬ 
ermore National Lab. 

“The message of the conference is that career 
possibilities are endless if girls take as many math 



GAYLE WILSON (left), First Lady of California, 
talks with Sheila Akins (8441), Sandia's co-chair of 
the Expanding Your Horizons conference. 

(LLNL Photo by Jackie McBride) 

and science classes as they can in high school,” 
says Sheila. “Students who attend the conference 
see women scientists who are good role models 
with challenging jobs and a life outside work. 
They see that women scientists aren’t nerds or 
Einstein types.” 

This is Sheila’s fourth year working at the con¬ 
ference. An important indicator of the program’s 
success, she says, is that many students and volun¬ 
teers return. 

This year, a special guest was Gayle Wilson, 
wife of California Gov. Pete Wilson. She spoke 
from personal experience, noting that “although I 
was encouraged to do well in school, no one en¬ 
couraged me to be good in science and math. My 
mother thought science was unfeminine.” 

Mrs. Wilson became interested in math in 
eighth grade when she met an encouraging science 
teacher. She later became a Westinghouse Talent 
Search Scholar, attended Stanford, and graduated 
in the top 10 percent of her class with a biology 
degree. 

“Yet, not one teacher or counselor encour¬ 


aged me to continue in science or to pursue it as 
a career,” she told students. “There are a lot of 
jobs that need people with math and science back¬ 
grounds. Don’t let counselors tell you that you 
only need a few math courses in high school.” 

Is Cola a Hazardous Waste? 

Though obviously interested in what the first 
lady of the state had to say, students consistently 
reported that the hands-on workshops were the 
highlight of their day. 

Kim Mahin (8312), a welding metallurgist, 
and Jane Ann Lamph (8483), a mechanical engi¬ 
neer, attracted interest with their program called 
“Metal Mania.” The demonstration explored the 
properties of materials and their application to de¬ 
signs such as the Space Shuttle and rapid transit 
systems. 

Kim changed the properties of soft, flexible 
gummy bears by freezing several pieces of the 
candy in liquid nitrogen. Not everyone was as will¬ 
ing as she was to eat them once they splintered like 
glass into hardened fragments. 

Jane Ann asked students to sort various 
metals by weight and showed them that weight 
and strength can’t always be estimated based on 
appearance. 

Other students gave high marks to a workshop 
on “How Things Work” led by mechanical engineers 

“Students see women scientists who 
are good role models with challeng¬ 
ing jobs and a life outside work.” 

Ellen Meeks (8245) and Beth Fuchs (8246) and 
structural engineer Vera Revelli (8242). They pre¬ 
pared five hands-on projects to help the girls learn 
scientific principles that apply to everyday life. 

Another hit workshop was led by Sandia engi¬ 
neer Kim Shepodd (8542), whose program was ti¬ 
tled “Coca-Cola — A Hazardous Waste?” She did 
an experiment that tested whether a soft drink dis¬ 
solves enough metal to classify the solution as a 



DEMONSTRATING HOW STEAM from a can of 
heated water can rotate the can in mid-air using di¬ 
rectional tubing is Vera Revelli (8242), who led one 
of the hands-on workshops for girls. 

hazardous waste. (It doesn't, though cola does 
contain phosphoric acid, which would be prob¬ 
lematic in larger quantities.) 

In other workshops, students designed a new 
town, explored how electricity flows through a 
bulb to produce light, discussed risk analysis, 
learned the principles behind bone marrow trans¬ 
plants, and wrote a short computer program. 

Meanwhile, about 60 parents and educators 
attended separate programs on college financing, 
college selection, and why math is important to 
girls. 

Sandians who chaired committees for the 
event include Lois Johnston (8316), Gloria Chris¬ 
tensen (8300E), Mary Rivenbark (8534), Alice 
Johnson-Du arte (8542), Kristy Sibert (8534), Su¬ 
san Crawford (8316), Karen Lee (8316), and Ce¬ 
leste Rohlfing (8341). Sandians who participated 
in the Career Fair booth include Mary Clare Stod¬ 
dard (8441), Charlene Schaldach (1932), and 
Christine Yang (1913). • 


SANDIA 

LIVERMORE INB/VS 



SANDIANS RECEIVED two 
awards from Pleasanton 
Partnerships in Education 
(PPIE) for programs involv¬ 
ing school science carnivals 
and School Links volun¬ 
teers. Accepting the awards 
are Ray Ng (left, 8445) for 
the Science Carnivals he 
coordinates in Bay Area 
schools, and Cindy English 
(8522) for coordinating the 
School Links program. Plea¬ 
santon Mayor Ken Mercer 
presented the awards. Four 
Sandians who volunteer in 
Pleasanton schools on a 
regular basis are Celeste 
Rohlfing (8341), Liz Cox 
(8360), Howard Royer (8512), 
and Victoria Levin (8541). 
Science carnivals have been 
held this year at Pleasanton 
Middle and Valley View Ele¬ 
mentary schools. 









LAB NEWS • April 3,1992 • Page Four 


Desert Power Parks 

Bright Forecast 

Imagine a vast solar power park in the 
Nevada desert. Several power towers and helio- 
stat fields supply electricity to hundreds of 
thousands of homes and businesses across the 
Western US. Electricity produced in the South¬ 
west would be wired to cities such as Seattle, 
where frequent sunless days prohibit the use of 
solar power. Heat energy stored in tanks could 
supply power even at night. 

While desert power parks may seem strange, 
they’re just one way solar central receiver tech¬ 
nology developed at Sandia and elsewhere 
could be used by utilities to reduce emissions 
and meet increasing energy demands in the US, 
says Greg Kolb (6217). 

Another scenario, he says, is using solar 
power generated in the desert to “juice up” 
electric cars in the cities. For several reasons, 
including reduced air emissions, the city of Los 
Angeles wants 70 percent of all new cars sold 


for Solar Power 

in the Los Angeles basin to be electric by the 
year 2010, says Greg. 

But electricity used to charge electric cars 
is still generated by gas or coal plants outside 
the cities, and air pollutants will still be pro¬ 
duced by these plants. Although emitting pollu¬ 
tants away from population centers is preferable 
to emitting the pollutants from tail pipes within 
cities, electric cars still indirectly produce emis¬ 
sions. Solar power plants could be used to han¬ 
dle the extra energy needed to charge electric 
cars, thereby turning electric cars into truly 
clean solar-powered cars, says Greg. 

“The US’s dependence on foreign oil and 
the increased use of natural resources have 
become national security issues,” says Jim 
Chavez (6217). “Clean, renewable energy is 
now a necessity, not a luxury.” These and other 
scenarios, he says, forecast a bright future for 
solar power technologies. 


(Continued from Page One) 

Solar Tower 

receiver plant called Solar Two. The new plant, 
they say, will be able to generate electricity more 
efficiently than Solar One during intermittent 
cloudy weather and after sundown, thanks to a 
new, more efficient heat storage capability devel¬ 
oped by Sandia and industry. 

“We believe solar central receiver technology 
is now ripe for commercial use,” says Jim, “but 
someone must first step in and show that a com¬ 
mercial plant will deliver electricity that is cost- 
competitive and reliable. Solar Two should 
validate the new heat storage technology and pave 
the way for utility companies to invest in solar 
power.” 

Field of Heliostats 

Solar One worked like this: hundreds of 20 x 
20-ft. heliostats (essentially sun-tracking mirrors) 
reflected sunlight onto a receiver atop a 300-ft. 
central tower. The focused sunlight heated water 
inside the receiver, producing high-pressure steam 
that drove a steam turbine on the ground, which 
produced electricity. Some heat energy was also 
stored in oil- and rock-filled tanks so that electric¬ 
ity could be produced at night and during partly 
cloudy weather. 

Built in 1982 and operated until 1988, Solar 
One demonstrated that solar central receiver tech¬ 
nology could tap the sun’s energy to produce 
electricity without polluting the environment, 
says Greg. “It also taught us lessons in how to im¬ 
prove the efficiency of future plants and thus 


SOLAR ONE, a solar re¬ 
search facility near Barstow, 
Calif, (seen here), will soon 
be upgraded and appropri¬ 
ately renamed "Solar Two” 
by members of a consortium 
of Western US utility com¬ 
panies. During the peak of 
its operation, Solar One pro¬ 
duced enough electricity to 
power 10,000 to 20,000 
homes. The upgraded solar 
power tower is expected to 
validate several new solar 
technologies and pave the 
way for utility companies to 
invest in solar central re¬ 
ceiver power plants. 


lower the cost of solar electricity to consumers,” 
he says. 

But Solar One also focused researchers’ atten¬ 
tion on a few inherent problems with the technol¬ 
ogy. First, when a cloud passed over the heliostat 
field, energy production essentially stopped. Sec¬ 
ond, electricity couldn’t be produced at night very 
efficiently, because the heat storage system was too 


complex and inefficient. 

For the last 15 years, researchers at Sandia and 
elsewhere have been studying ways to remedy 
these problems by learning how to store solar en¬ 
ergy more efficiently. The solution: use molten ni¬ 
trate salt instead of water. 

The molten salt substance — similar to the 
chemical saltpeter — has ideal properties for stor¬ 
ing solar energy, says Greg. It’s inexpensive, it’s 
non-hazardous, it can withstand extremely high 

At Solar One, when a cloud passed 
over the heliostat field, energy pro¬ 
duction essentially stopped. 

temperatures, and it stores heat energy much more 
efficiently than the substances used in the Solar 
One storage system. When hot, the salt flows like 
water, and it can be stored in insulated holding 
tanks for hours without losing a significant amount 
of its heat energy. 

“We found that molten salt can be heated and 
used to turn water into steam very efficiently,” he 
says. “When it gets dark or the sun goes behind a 
cloud, you can draw on your energy reserves.” 

Because of these properties, predicts Jim, a 
(Continued on Next Page) 



Leveling the Playing Field 

Solar vs. Fossil: Different Fuels, Different Costs 


Many utility companies still think solar 
power is risky business. Oil and coal prices re¬ 
main low, fossil fuels are the status quo, and 
many new solar technologies haven’t been suc¬ 
cessful in the past ten years, says Jim Chavez 
(6217). 

But recent concerns about the long-term 
availability of fossil fuels, renewed environmen¬ 
tal worries, and uneasiness of politicians about 
the nation’s dependence on foreign oil have put 
alternative sources of energy at the forefront 
again, he says. 

“In the ’70s, the biggest concern of power 
companies was the high cost of crude oil,” says 
Jim. “But when oil prices dropped back down in 
the early ’80s, utilities had no economic incentive 
to develop solar technologies.” Today, however, 
the environment is the focus, he says. “Industry 
and government are beginning to factor in the en¬ 
vironmental costs of burning fossil fuels.” These 


costs include emission of carbon monoxide, 
volatiles, and carbon dioxide (a major contributor 
to global warming). Coal power plants also emit 
sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxides, which are 
linked to acid rain. 

Factoring It In 

Sandia researchers predict that with today’s 
technology, a 200-megawatt central receiver plant 
could produce electricity for only 1 or 2 cents per 
kilowatt-hour more than coal plants of similar 
size. Pending technology advances, including 
new types of stretched-membrane heliostats, will 
narrow that gap even more. 

In addition, some state governments have ini¬ 
tiated incentive programs that force conventional 
coal and oil plants to pay for environmental dam¬ 
age. In Nevada, for instance, a utility company 
that wants to build a new coal power plant must 
add 5 cents per kilowatt-hour to the price of elec¬ 


tricity to pay for environmental damage. The net 
effect is what’s called an “environmental equal¬ 
izer” that makes solar technologies a lot more at¬ 
tractive to companies evaluating types of power 
plants, says Greg Kolb (6217). 

In other states, “tax equalizers” are being 
given to utilities that use solar power, says Greg. 
“The current tax structures often force solar 
power plants to pay more in taxes than conven¬ 
tional power plants,” he says. “Tax equalizers 
tend to ease that burden. 

“Such programs are necessary to level the 
playing field for solar technologies,” he says. He 
predicts that with equalizers and technology ad¬ 
vances in place, solar energy could become less 
costly than other sources of electricity. “We’re 
not saying solar energy is cheaper than other 
sources of energy right now, but we’re within 25 
percent and closing in fast. We think people are 
willing to spend a little more for clean power.” 





LAB NEWS • April 3,1992 • Page Five 


(Continued from Preceding Page) 

Solar Tower 

full-scale solar central receiver plant using molten 
salt technology could be made to operate cost- 
effectively during 60 percent of the year. 

Still Perceived as Risky 

Unfortunately, many utility companies doubt 
that solar power plants can compete economically 
with conventional sources of electricity (see “Solar 
vs. Fossil: Different Fuels, Different Costs” on 
page four). One reason, says Greg, is that it costs 
more to build a solar plant than it does an oil or 
coal plant, mainly because manufacturing he¬ 
liostats is expensive. What’s often not considered, 
however, is that the fuel for a solar power plant is 
free. “It’s like buying a new car with 30 years 
worth of fuel already in it,” he says. “In the long 
run it’s cost effective, but it costs more up front.” 

More than a year ago, Jim, Greg, and Dan 
Alpert (6216) launched a campaign to try to con¬ 
vince utilities in the Southwest that solar central 
receiver technology is a sound investment. The 
plan worked. 

SoCal Edison, along with the other members 
of the consortium (now including nine utility com¬ 


panies in California, Arizona, Idaho, and Utah), 
plans to retrofit the Solar One plant with a new 
molten salt system during the next year. The plant 
should be on-line in late 1994, predicts Greg. 

DOE will be a partner in the project by halving 
the cost of the upgrade with the consortium. Sandia 
will provide technical assistance, including re¬ 
viewing the plant’s design and construction and 
helping resolve technical issues. 

The upgrade will include the addition of about 
100 new, larger heliostats, a new receiver, a ther- 

“It’s like buying a new car with 30 
years worth of fuel already in it. In the 
long run, it’s cost effective.” 

mal storage tank system including hot and cold salt 
tanks, and a new salt-to-steam generator. The up¬ 
grade will use the existing Solar One tower, he¬ 
liostats, turbine, and a portion of the control 
system. 

Once Solar Two is up and running, consortium 
members will share the electricity produced — ap¬ 
proximately 10 megawatts, enough to power 
10,000 to 20,000 homes with a four-hour storage 
capability. Although this amount is relatively small 


compared to 100- and 200-megawatt conventional 
power plants of today, Jim and Greg say it’s the 
first step toward a new energy future (see “Bright 
Forecast” on page four). In addition, they say. So¬ 
lar Two will lead to improved cost projections for 
large-scale solar power plants. 

“This group of companies is taking the initia¬ 
tive in building an energy future that doesn’t rely 
on foreign oil, that doesn’t harm the environment 
significantly, and most importantly, that relies on a 
limitless source of fuel — the sun,” says Jim. 

Technologies for Solar One and Two have 
been under development at Sandia, Livermore and 
Sandia, Albuquerque since the early 1970s. “The 
Sandians involved in helping develop these tech¬ 
nologies are too numerous to mention,” Greg says. 
“Suffice it to say that we are now building on their 
contributions to produce newer technologies that 
should lead to a renewed, more positive outlook 
on energy resources in the near future.” 

Greg says the Solar One upgrade is a signifi¬ 
cant milestone toward building a 100-megawatt 
commercial solar power plant by the end of this 
decade and toward developing and building a 
plant twice that size during the next decade. “Solar 
Two is the first step toward commercializing solar 
central receiver technology,” he says. *JG 


Timetable for Laboratory Directed R&D Proposals 

April 24 Centers submit proposals to LDRD office. 

May 1 LDRD office logs and distributes proposals for technical review. 

May 20 Technical reviews completed. 

May 22 LDRD office logs and distributes proposals for program review. 

June 5 Program review completed. 

After the LDRD plan is prepared, it will undergo a DOE review, probably in June. Feedback to 
proposal submitters will take place within three weeks after the DOE on-site review. 


(Continued from Page One) 

Lab Directed R&D 

LDRD budget requests. 

Here are some other major changes in the 
LDRD program: 

• Targeted technology areas and funding lev¬ 
els are announced so researchers have a feel for the 
appropriateness of their projects before submitting 
them for review. 

• As part of the technical review, lead princi¬ 
pal investigators will be required to make a 10- 
minute oral presentation on their proposals and 
participate in a discussion with the technical re¬ 
view team members. 

• Each proposal must list as a milestone the 
publication of a final SAND report on the project’s 
results. These reports also will serve as LDRD pro¬ 
gram feedback to DOE. 


Peter says each manager at Sandia has re¬ 
ceived a package containing detailed instruc¬ 
tions on how proposals should be prepared and 
submitted. 

Paul Fleury, VP-1000 and chair of the LDRD 
Council, praises the PMT members for their “hard 
work and excellent results. This group has not 
only devised a fair, uniform, and streamlined pro¬ 
cess from which all of Sandia will benefit,” he 
says, “they have also performed as a team in ways 


we should all seek to emulate.” 

Members of the PMT who helped shape and 
define the LDRD changes, in addition to Peter, 
are: Linda Benavides (143), Ernie Brickell (1423), 
Ron Diegle (2523), Jim Gerardo (1120), Duane 
Lindner (8310), Bob Luna (6603), Ed Kozlowski 
(1000), Phil Montoya (9012), Del Owyoung 
(1310), Steve Rottler (1511), Rick Stulen (8342), 
Suzanne Weissman (6000A), David Williams 
(6429), and David Womble (1422). *HK 



NEW IEEE FELLOWS — Paul Peercy, Director of Microelectronics and Photonics 1300, and Mary Ann 
Sweeney of Pulsed Power Theory Dept. 1625 were recently named Fellows of the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronic Engineers (IEEE), an honor reserved for 1 percent of the Institute’s 300,000-person membership. 
Paul was selected for his contributions to ferroelectric materials and device research and for his contribu¬ 
tions to and management of strained-layer, compound semiconductor device programs. Mary Ann was se¬ 
lected for her technical contributions in the areas of plasma opening switches and beam interactions with 
matter in particle beam accelerators. 


Congratulations 

To Grace and Kyu (344) Paek, a daughter, 
Yuri Crystal, Feb. 19. 

To Priscilla (3532) and James Altsisi, a son, 
Matthew James, Feb. 29. 

To Donna and Randy (6233) Cygan, a daugh¬ 
ter, Katharine Adele, March 14. 

To Mary (1511) and Larry (9230) Walker, a 
son, Will Patrick, March 15. 

To Betsy (3532) and Steve (7711) Parker, a 
daughter, Kelsey, March 17. 

To Peggy Clews (1841) and David Beutler 
(9341), a daughter, Rebecca Esther Beutler-Clews, 
March 17. 

To Sherrye (21) and John (9514) Lavasek, a 
daughter, Cindy, March 18. 

To Debbie and Randy (5161) Harrison, a 
daughter, Heidi Lynne, March 20. 


Sympathy 

To Carmie Thompson (2364) on the death of 
her father in Greenup, Ky., Feb. 16. 

To Tony Cordova (2482) on the death of his 
mother-in-law in Albuquerque, March 16. 

To Tom Corbet (6344) on the death of his fa¬ 
ther in New York, March 17. 

To John Guth (7712) on the death of his father 
in Albuquerque, March 23. 




LAB NEWS * April 3,1992 • Page Six 


Inviting 1,900 to Lunch 


Brown Bagging with Brass Begins 


Brown Bagging with Brass, Sandia’s regular 
question-and-answer luncheon sessions with upper 
management, has celebrated its second birthday. 

The program involves inviting randomly se¬ 
lected non-supervisory employees — usually 20 to 
25 at a time — to have lunch with a member of the 
Sandia Management Council (SMC). It began in 
response to employee comments recorded in the 
1989 Employee Communications Survey. So far, 
almost 1,900 employees have participated. 

“The 1989 survey clearly showed,” says Rod 
Geer, Manager of Public Relations Dept. 3161, 
“that employees wanted more information about 
long-range plans and future prospects, more oppor- 

“The moat between upper manage¬ 
ment and staff is getting smaller be¬ 
cause of efforts like this.” 


tunities to express feelings about the impact of new 
practices and policies on their jobs, and more op¬ 
portunities to talk directly — one-on-one, if possi¬ 
ble — with upper management about these 
matters.” 

Brown Bagging with Brass and similar pro¬ 
grams begun at the division, sector, or center level 
seem to be achieving that, particularly when 
viewed in the context of results from last year’s 
all-employee survey. 

“Although issues of concern abound in survey 
results, I like to point out the positives whenever 
possible,” Rod says. “One from last summer’s 
Sandians’ Perspective survey is that 63 percent 
said that in the past year or so communication at 
the Labs has changed for the better or stayed the 
same, and is generally good.” 


Rod, who with Herb Pitts, Director of Infor¬ 
mation Services Center 3100, first approached 
members of SMC about starting Brown Bagging, 
has saved all written comments from employees 
who have attended a session. “This program has 
been highly satisfying for those who’ve partici¬ 
pated. In addition, there’s been some useful input 
on how to fine-time the proceedings,” he says. 

Questions Are Deeper Now 

The Sandians who answer most of the ques¬ 
tions at Brown Bagging with Brass — members of 
SMC — remain high on the program. 

“It’s always been a lot of fun for me,” says 
Dan Hartley, VP-6000. “In the early days, ques¬ 
tions almost seemed as if they were coming 
from people who didn’t work at Sandia. Today, 
however, questions are deeper. People are more 
informed.” 

Roger Hagengruber, VP-5000: “We started 
this with the belief that it’d be a valuable commu¬ 
nications tool. That’s true. It’s been exceptionally 
useful for me to hear from others. Probably the 
most persistent questions have been ones involv¬ 
ing personnel policies — enhanced retirement 
possibilities, secretarial issues, rumors of person¬ 
nel actions.” 

“The strongest impression I get from these ses¬ 
sions,” says Paul Robinson, VP-4000, “is that there 
are issues people feel very strongly about, but for 
some reason we in management haven’t found a 
good conduit through which to hear about and dis¬ 
cuss the issues. So, I get hit with those concerns at 
Brown Bagging sessions — questions about affir¬ 
mative action, questions about why management 
doesn’t display more fiscal trust of employees. 
Thus I find the sessions very useful and hope oth¬ 
ers do also.” 


TAKING NOTES — Rod 
Geer (3161) observes a 
recent Brown Bagging 
with Brass session to hear 
a sample of what’s on 
Sandians’ minds and to 
follow up if further infor¬ 
mation is needed to an¬ 
swer a question. Brown 
Bagging sessions usually 
involve 20-25 employees 
meeting with a member of 
the Sandia Management 
Council. 







Q: We use a system for our SAND report num¬ 
bers that is not good for our image, it seems to me. 
The system is that we assign SAND numbers iden¬ 
tifying the year in which the number was re¬ 
quested; for example, SAND89-1234 might be 
given in 1989. The problem is that by the time we 
actually publish the report, the actual date of pub¬ 
lication has changed and is also identified. Thus, 
SAND89-1234 might not be published until May 
1991. This makes it clear that we were slow be¬ 
cause we took two years to publish, which does 
not look so good even though it is true. Pointing 
this out to the people who supply SAND numbers 
resulted in the response that the number can be 
changed to the current year. However, the original 
number is often used as a reference number on “to 
be published” lists, after which it is not practical 
to change to a new number. Why don’t we just 
start counting from some number? 

A: Your question is timely and valid. Assign¬ 


ment of a SAND report number is part of the doc¬ 
ument Review and Approval process, which is 
currently being studied by a Review and Approval 
Quality Action Team (QAT) comprising a cross 
section of Sandians. 

The SAND report number includes the year of 
issue to allow easy retrieval of old document in¬ 
formation from a personal computer-based infor¬ 
mation system. Changes to this procedure will be 
considered as part of the QAT review. Your sug¬ 
gestion has been forwarded to the team, and you 
will be invited to participate in focus group studies 
of the review and approval process. 

Herb Pitts (3100) 

Q: The requirement for a division supervi¬ 
sor’s signature on shipping documents seems un¬ 
necessary and disempowering. This is especially 
true for those who are not located in the same 
building as their supervisors. In my case, I must 


Its Third Year 


Frankness and Humor Prevailed, 
Say Brown-Bagging Participants 

The following comments (used with per¬ 
mission) are typical of those made by em¬ 
ployees who attend Brown Bagging sessions: 

“I felt that our discussions were quite 
frank. While we didn’t solve any problems, 
we did seem to gain some common under¬ 
standings of the challenges that we, as a 
company, are facing.” 

Ken Erickson (1512) 

“I appreciated how much information 
was conveyed. He [the VP] had a good 
sense of humor and style of conveying 
information.” 

Rudy Matalucci (6257) 

“It was nice to see upper management 
listen to our concerns and try to offer some 
real answers in the wake of an ever-changing 
Sandia Labs. People like to be heard ... it 
breaks down the communication barrier.” 

Sophie Garcia (4540) 


Heinz Schmitt, VP-2000: “It really provides 
me an opportunity for personal interaction with 
employees from a cross section of the Labs that I 
just can’t get any other way. It also seems that 
since we started these meetings, people participat¬ 
ing in them have become more open. The moat be¬ 
tween upper management and staff is getting 
smaller because of efforts like this. It’s imperative 
that we continue, even if my answers aren’t al¬ 
ways as good as I’d like them to be.” 

Says Gerry Yonas, VP-9000: “Every time 
I’m at one of the sessions, I go away pumped up 
with new energy that comes from first-hand in¬ 
teraction with some of the most talented people 
in the country.” 

“I hold these sessions in high value,” notes 
Executive VP Lee Bray (30), “and, in fact, 
have started similar ones specifically for em¬ 
ployees in organizations that report to me. The 
sessions offer the opportunity to regularly em¬ 
phasize the importance of implementing our 
Strategic Plan through discussion of current is¬ 
sues. And I’ve never felt I was appearing be¬ 
fore a hostile audience.” 

Despite its success, Rod says some changes 
are being considered for Brown Bagging with 
Brass. “There are logical spinoffs, such as offer¬ 
ing employee tours of high-profile facilities or 
operations.” • 



travel from one end of Tech Area 1 to the other to 
get my supervisor’s signature. 

A: Please be assured that we are not insensi¬ 
tive to the problems and inconveniences incurred 
by employees when following established policy. 
There are, however, sound business practices and 
legal reasons for the policy. In the case of signa¬ 
ture authority on shippers, we are bound by our 
contract with DOE to follow the property control 
policies of AT&T. AT&T’s policy sets signature 
authority at the management level. In addition, 
this policy provides an auditable process for con¬ 
trol of government property. 

We’re sorry our response does not solve your 
problem, but we do appreciate your inquiry. It is 
Sandia’s objective to reduce administrative impedi¬ 
ments whenever and wherever possible. Com¬ 
ments and questions by employees ensure that we 
continue to pursue this objective. 

Paul Stanford (100) 




LAB NEWS 


April 3,1992 » Page Seven 


Valuable Services in Changing Times 

Tech Libraries Help Meet Sandians’ Changing Info Needs 



STACK SEARCHING — Library Assistant Liz Kuehl of Techni¬ 
cal Library Processes Dept. 3141 selects a volume at Sandia's 
Technical Library in Albuquerque. Although books are still an 
excellent source of information, electronic media and technical 
journals are Sandians' staple information sources these days. 


These days, evolving research focuses, tighter 
budgets, and stricter deadlines mean many Sandi¬ 
ans need a convenient place to get new and rele¬ 
vant information for Labs work. That’s where 
Sandia’s Technical Libraries in Albuquerque and 
Livermore can help, says Jennie Negin, former 
Manager of Technical Library Dept. 3140. 

“Times are changing,” says Jennie, “and 
Sandia’s Technical Libraries are committed to ad¬ 
justing to the changing needs of the Labs. We want 
to provide the most valuable information services 
possible and show that we really can add to the 
bottom line.” 

Several Library initiatives and a continued 
focus on customer service mean Sandians are more 
likely to get the information they want when they 
need it, she says. And in a time when Labs re¬ 
search is changing its focus, the Library can also 
help Sandians learn new fields or reapply their 
skills in other areas. This can save Sandia money 
and lead to new opportunities for work. “The library 
can be a partner in Labs work,” she says. 

In addition, special collections are now avail¬ 
able that contain up-to-date information about 
Labs initiatives such as quality and project man¬ 
agement. And new computer capabilities can help 
bring information right to a researcher’s desktop. 
An extensive interlibrary loan service also expands 
Library capabilities far beyond the walls of Bldg. 
804 (Albuquerque) and Bldgs. 921 and 912 (Liver¬ 
more), she says. 

As part of its customer service initiative, the li¬ 
brary staffs in Livermore and Albuquerque re¬ 
cently surveyed several Very Important Customers 
(“VICs” for short) about their experiences using 
Sandia’s Technical Libraries. Here’s what a few of 
them had to say: 

Bernie Zak, Risk Assessment and Trans¬ 
portation System Analysis Dept. 6321: “I often 
get requests for analysis in areas that are vaguely 
familiar to me. I have from one to six weeks to 
come up with expert judgment. Without competent 
Library services, this would be very difficult. Last 
year, a team of 15 Sandians was asked to evaluate 
likely consequences of certain Hussein actions in 
the Kuwait oil fields. Library information helped 
us go from request to report to the White House in 
six weeks.” 

Ed Graham, Director of Facilities Opera¬ 
tions and Maintenance Center 7800: “I use the 
Library to keep abreast of new initiatives — 
Quality, management, the way we solve prob¬ 
lems. When I find a book that really hits home on 
issues of the workplace, I depend on the Library 
to get my personal copy as quickly as I might 
need it.” 

Art Trujillo, Manager of Best Practices 
Benchmarking Dept. 4313: “The Library has 
been valuable to us in Benchmarking. Having in¬ 
formation at our desks instead of having to go to 


Calling All Library Customers ... 

The Sandia, Albuquerque Technical Li¬ 
brary has selected National Library Week, 
April 5 through 11, to showcase its capabili¬ 
ties and services. An Open House will be 
held Wednesday, April 8, from 1 to 4 p.m. in 
Bldg. 804. All Sandians are welcome. 

Some of the Library’s “VICs” (for “Very 
Important Customers”) will act as docents 
and be available to share with visitors how 
the Library has helped them with Labs’ 
work. Several exhibits will also be dis¬ 
played. In addition, local book vendors will 
be on hand so that Sandians can test out a 
brand new Library service — employees can 
now use their Sandia credit cards to procure 
books from bookstores directly. 


folks saves travel time and money. The Li¬ 
brary also enables us to do homework and 
gain valuable insights about companies 
(called corporate intelligence). This will 
play a tremendous role in Sandia’s future. I 
never realized what a valuable resource 
was sitting right in the middle of this 
company.” 

John Vitko, Program Development 
Org. 8300A: “Sandia is quickly becoming 
a significant contributor to the nation’s 
global climate change research program. 
Because this field is changing and devel¬ 
oping very rapidly, the ability to access in¬ 
formation quickly is critical. During the 
past two years, the Livermore Library has 
provided many useful profiles and 
searches of engineering and meteorologi¬ 
cal literature, often with only one or two 
days notice. This has allowed members of 
our staff to contribute in a timely and ef¬ 
fective way to a variety of forums and 
programs.” 

Judith Mead, ES&H Customer Rep¬ 
resentative Manager 7203: “One of the 
things that came up at a recent Sandians’ 
Perspective cabinet meeting of VPs, direc¬ 
tors, and managers was the usefulness of 
the Management Newsletter distributed by 
the Library. Many people said they are ap¬ 
preciative of the newsletter, often request 
journal articles from it, and feel it is an 
outstanding service to Labs management.” 

Walt Herrmann, Director of Shock 
Physics Research Center 1600: “The Li¬ 
brary provides dozens of journal articles 
that I use to establish the theory underlying 
the way materials deform for computer 
modeling research. This is paying off in a 
real way. Putting my own work together with what 
others have published is giving us new and more 
accurate ways of modeling many materials. The Li¬ 
brary supports similar research of many different 
problems across the Labs — solid mechanics, fluid 
mechanics, shock wave physics, space shuttle de¬ 
bris shield modeling, and reactor safety work.” 

Nina Bergan, Technology Application Dept. 
5377: “Through a literature search recently, the 
Livermore Technical Library supplied information 
that helped us understand what the Environmental 
Protection Agency and industry were doing to 
measure metal aerosol emissions. We found that 
emissions compliance could be improved by devel¬ 
oping a continuous monitoring technique for metal 
aerosols, work which is well-suited to Sandia’s ex¬ 


Albert Baez, a physicist whose work in X-ray 
optics is world-renowned, will speak at Sandia on 

Wednesday, April 8. 
He will discuss “An 
Environmental Ethic: 
Respect and Affection 
for the Earth” at 10 
a.m. in the Technology 
Transfer Center (Bldg. 
825). 

Baez, who is the 
father of folk singer 
Joan Baez, did research 
in X-ray optics at Stan¬ 
ford University together 
with Paul Kirkpatrick 
that opened the way for X-ray imaging micro¬ 
scopes and telescopes. 

Although the Earth fosters life, Baez says, 
large human populations and powerful technol¬ 


pertise. This critical knowledge gave our efforts 
immediate direction and provided background 
information for our proposals.” 

Dick Jones, Electromagnetic Analysis Dept. 
2753: “During one project — called the ‘archaeol¬ 
ogy’ project because we were ‘digging up’ records 
from the past — we were looking for anything ever 
written about stockpile-to-target sequence. I had 
my own desk in the vault [the location of the Li¬ 
brary’s records collections]. The support from the 
Library was really outstanding. Four library staff 
members worked with me. As a result, I did sev¬ 
eral years worth of work in just one year. After 
seeing all that goes on behind the scenes, I know 
the Library is a valuable asset.” • 


ogy have combined to wreak havoc on air, water, 
and soil. Technology can be used constructively, 
but humans have to be educated into curiosity, 
creativity, competence — and compassion. 

In addition to having taught physics at Stan¬ 
ford, Baez has been involved in addressing envi¬ 
ronmental issues worldwide, done innovative 
work in curriculum reform, and promoted self- 
help through science-based education and commu¬ 
nity projects. He received the Chairman’s Award 
at the 1990 Hispanic Engineer Achievement 
Awards and is currently president of the US 
branch of the Swiss humanitarian and education 
foundation Vivamos Mejor (Let Us Live Better). 

While in New Mexico, Baez will also be the 
keynote speaker at two “Share Fairs” in Grants 
and Cochiti, workshops designed to help teach¬ 
ers and science advisors develop innovative 
ideas for classroom instruction in science and 
mathematics. • 


Environmental Ethic 

Physicist Albert Baez to Speak at Sandia 



ALBERT BAEZ 











LAB NEWS 


April 3,1992 • Page Eight 


Profiles of Sandia’s New Center Directors 


The LAB NEWS begins profiling Sandia’s new 
directors in this issue. Space does not permit pro¬ 
filing all new directors (most are new positions 
created as a result of restructuring) in this issue. 
Others will be profiled in the next few issues. 


DORIS MILLER to Director of Nuclear Waste 
Management Center 6300. 

“I’m looking forward to becoming a part of the 
outstanding work that Sandia is doing in nuclear 

waste management 
and hope to facili¬ 
tate the application 
of that expertise to 
new areas of need as 
world events present 
opportunities,” says 
Dori. 

Dori came to 
Sandia in 1978 as a 
member of the Vi¬ 
bration and Modal 
DORIS MILLER Testing Division, 

where she did structural dynamics diagnostics 
testing. She transferred to Applied Mechanics 
Division IV on a rotating assignment in 1980 
and did structural analysis and environments en¬ 
gineering. She returned to the Vibration and 
Modal Testing Division in 1981. Dori was also 
on loan to the Field Test Organization for six 
months to develop a data reduction system for 
field instrumentation trailers. 

She was promoted to Supervisor of the Cli¬ 
matic, Centrifuge, and Devices Testing Division, 
where her work included centrifuge, mass proper¬ 
ties, climatic, and electrical functional testing. In 
1988, she transferred to Sensor Systems Division 
V, where she developed electromechanical sys¬ 
tems and sensors for intrusion detection, access 
control, and battlefield management. In 1990, she 
was on special assignment for three months to the 
DOE Office of Arms Control in Washington, 
D.C., to help with strategic planning. Dori was 
promoted to Manager of the Experimental Me¬ 
chanics Department in 1990. 

She has a BS in mechanical engineering from 
UNM and an MS in mechanical engineering from 
UNM through Sandia’s One-Year-On-Campus 
program. 

Dori enjoys tennis and vocal music. She has 
three children and lives in NE Albuquerque. 

* * * 




MELODIE OWEN EYSTER to Director of 
Financial Services Center 150. 

“I’m looking forward to my new posi¬ 
tion and the op¬ 
portunity to work 
with another high¬ 
ly talented group,” 
says Melodie. “We 
have numerous 
challenges in meet¬ 
ing our customers’ 
needs both internal¬ 
ly and externally, 
while facing in¬ 
creasing demands 
on our resources. 
One of our major initiatives involves bringing up a 
new financial system while ensuring a smooth tran¬ 
sition and integration with other systems. I look 
forward to working with folks throughout the Labs 
in accomplishing this.” 

Melodie joined Sandia in 1979 as a staff ac¬ 
countant in the General Accounting Division. In 
1981, she joined the Financial Policies and Proce¬ 
dures Division, where she was an analyst and acted 
as DOE liaison. She transferred to the Joint Re¬ 
ceipts Tax Division in 1982 and negotiated a $270 
million tax settlement for Sandia and several other 
DOE contractors, working with attorneys from 
Sandia, DOE, and the New Mexico Taxation and 


MELODIE OWEN EYSTER 


Revenue Department. She received a commenda¬ 
tion from DOE for that work. In 1983, she joined 
the Management Information and Results Divi¬ 
sion, where she monitored budget/costs of the 
Military Application programs for reporting to 
Sandia management. 

Melodie was promoted to Supervisor of the 
Payment Processing Section in 1984. While there, 
she assisted in a major conversion project for the 
Integrated Procurement System and consulted on 
Gross Receipts Tax problems. In 1985, she was 
promoted to Supervisor of the Finance Division. In 
1987, she was named Assistant to the Vice Presi¬ 
dent of Research and was promoted to Manager of 
the Accounting Department in 1989. She went to 
the Audit Department in 1990 and then to the 
Budget Department later in 1990. 

Melodie has a BBA and an MBA in account¬ 
ing from Eastern New Mexico University and 
holds a CPA certificate. Before joining Sandia, 
she worked for Rogoff and Youngberg, CPAs, in 
Albuquerque. She is a member of Phi Kappa Phi 
Honor Society, member and past president of the 
American Society of Women Accountants, and 
past chair of the New Mexico Accounting and 
Management Seminar Board. Melodie is chairper¬ 
son of the annual Employee Contribution Plan 
Campaign for 1992. 

She enjoys tennis, ballroom dancing, calligra¬ 
phy, and stained-glass art. She and her husband 
Gary live in the NE Heights. 

* * * 

ALTON ROMIG to Director of Materials and 
Process Sciences Center 1800. 

“I’m excited about the formation of the new 
Centers at Sandia,” says Al. “It will be a wonderful 

experience in build¬ 
ing new teams. The 
development of a 
new business style 
and the develop¬ 
ment of a new and 
evolving customer 
base will be an ad¬ 
venture.” 

Al’s Sandia ca¬ 
reer has been in the 
Labs’ Metallurgy 
Department since 
he joined the Physical Metallurgy Division in 1979. 
His work has been primarily in diffusion-controlled 
microstructural evolution and advanced microstruc- 
tural characterization, primarily for assessing 
weapon component reliability. 

Al was promoted to Supervisor of the Physical 
Metallurgy Division in 1988 and was named Man¬ 
ager of the Metallurgy Department in 1990. He 
was a member of Sandia’s Quality Improvement 
Team, the Phase II Strategic Planning Committee, 
and the Management Restructuring Team. He is 
currently serving on the DOE Technology Assess¬ 
ment Selection Panel for uranium alloys. 

Awards he has received include the ASM- 
MSD (American Society for Metals/Materials Sci¬ 
ence Division) Research Award in 1992, given to 
outstanding mid-career materials scientists; and the 
K.F.J. Heinrich Award in 1991, given by the Mi¬ 
crobeam Analysis Society to outstanding scientists 
under age 40. He was elected Fellow of the Ameri¬ 
can Society for Metals in 1990. In 1988, he re¬ 
ceived the Burton Medal, awarded by the Electron 
Microscopy Society of America to outstanding sci¬ 
entists under age 40. 

Al has BS, MS, and PhD degrees in materi¬ 
als science and engineering from Lehigh Uni¬ 
versity. He is a member of the American 
Society for Metals, the Metallurgical Society, 
the Materials Research Society, the Microbeam 
Analysis Society, and the Electron Microscopy 
Society of America. 

Al enjoys flying. He and his wife Julie have 
one child and live in the NE Heights. 


MIRIAM JOHN to Director of Exploratory 
Systems and Program Development Center 8100. 

“I’m thrilled with the challenge of leading one 

of the most excit¬ 
ing organizations 
in the Labs,” says 
Mim. “Our charter 
is no less than to 
provide leadership 
and coordination 
for new initiatives 
at the Livermore 
site. Our success 
can have a signifi¬ 
cant impact on our 
future work at Liv¬ 
ermore and, we hope, in the Labs as a whole.” 

Mim joined Sandia, Livermore in 1978 as a 
member of the Solar Systems Studies Division, 
where she did systems analyses for the Solar Cen¬ 
tral Receiver Project. She worked with Ted Dellin 
(2376) to develop the DELSOL (“of the sun”) 
computer code for solar systems evaluation. She 
also worked on solar power commercialization 
studies. In 1980, she joined the Thermal Sciences 
Division, where she did weapon component mod¬ 
eling and kinetic and multiphase flow analyses. 

She was promoted to Supervisor of the Analyti¬ 
cal Thermal/Fluid Mechanics Division in 1982. In 
1985, she became Supervisor of the Systems Re¬ 
search Division, where she worked on Strategic 
Defense Initiative system studies. She supervised 
the W89/SRAM II Test and Evaluation Division 
from 1988 until 1991, when she was promoted to 
Manager of the Systems Analysis Department. 

Mim has a BS in chemistry from Rice Univer¬ 
sity, an MS in chemical engineering from Tulane 
University, and a PhD in chemical engineering 
from Princeton University. Before coming to 
Sandia, she spent a year as a postdoctoral fellow 
under the auspices of the Organization of Ameri¬ 
can States at the Institute de Investigaciones Elec- 
tricas in Cuernavaca, Mexico. 

She enjoys ethnic cooking, wine collecting, 
golf, beachcombing, and reading. Mim and her 
husband Bill Wilson (5403) live in Livermore. 

* * * 

MICHAEL EATON to Director of Command 
and Control Center 5700. 

“This new position provides an exciting oppor¬ 
tunity to meld the best practices from the DOE 

Weapons Program 
and Work for Oth¬ 
ers Program in a 
way that benefits 
both,” says Mike. 

He joined San¬ 
dia in 1964 as a 
member of the Up¬ 
per Atmospheric 
Test Division. He 
worked on ground- 
system telemetry 
at Sandia’s rocket 
ranges on Johnston Island and Kauai. He worked on 
air-delivered seismic and acoustic detectors as part 
of the Counter Intrusion (COIN) Detection program 
during the Vietnam War era, and on various security 
systems for the DoD and DOE. 

In 1975, he was promoted to Supervisor of the 
Technology Assessment Division in the Nuclear 
Systems Directorate. Mike led several domestic 
and international programs as part of the 
DOE/OSS (Office of Safeguard and Security) pro¬ 
gram from 1975 to 1983. He was Supervisor of 
Command and Control Division II when he was 
promoted in 1990 to Manager of the Control Sys¬ 
tems Department. 

Mike has a BS from Montana State University 
and an MS from UNM, both in electrical engineer¬ 
ing. He served with the Navy from 1957 to 1960. 

He enjoys golf, tennis, and skiing. Mike and 



ALTON ROMIG 



MIRIAM JOHN 



MICHAEL EATON 






LAB NEWS • April 3,1992 » Page Nine 


his wife Debbie have two grown children and live 
in the NE Heights. 

* * * 

JAMES WRIGHT to Director of California 
Weapon Development Center 5300. 

“The diminishing nuclear weapon stockpile will 
require concerted effort to ensure that what remains 

incorporates the best 
safety, command 
and control, quality, 
and reliability that 
we can provide,” 
says Jim. “At the 
same time, we must 
work to ensure that 
dismantlement of 
no-longer-needed 
weapons proceeds 
promptly, safely, 
and in an environ¬ 
mentally conscious fashion — no mean feat given 
the amount of work to be done.” 

Jim joined Sandia, Livermore in 1958 as a 
member of the Electrical Design Division. He 
was responsible for the afterbody assembly and 
many of the associated components for the B41 
bomb. In 1960, he transferred to the W55 Project 
Engineering Division, where he did firing set de¬ 
sign and development and was responsible for the 
warhead electrical system. He joined the Elec¬ 
tronic Support Division in 1961 and was assigned 
to the Operation Dominic team as an AF&F de¬ 
signer. He went to the Preliminary Analysis Divi¬ 
sion in 1963 and did reentry vehicle and SAM 
warhead studies, including preliminary design of 
the Pebbles reentry vehicle electrical system. In 
1964, he was assigned to the Pebbles advanced 
development team as lead electrical engineer. Af¬ 
ter a brief return to the Preliminary Systems De¬ 
sign Division, Jim was assigned to the W68/Mk3 
project as lead electrical engineer. 

In 1969, Jim was promoted to Supervisor of 
the Nuclear Safety Division. Other divisions he 
headed include the Preliminary Design Division, 
the B77 Electrical System Division, Special Pro¬ 
jects Division, and the B83 Electrical Systems Di¬ 
vision. He was promoted to Manager of the Solar 
Central Receiver Department in 1982 and managed 
Sandia’s activity as lead laboratory for the program 
and test and evaluation effort at the Barstow 100 
MW Pilot Plant. In 1985, he transferred to the Sys¬ 
tems Development Department, where he managed 
the W89 program. 

Jim has a BS in electrical engineering from the 
University of California at Berkeley. He served 
with the Navy from 1950 to 1954. 

He and his wife Judy have three sons and live 
in Livermore. 

* * * 



JAMES WRIGHT 


JAMES KELSEY to Director of Transporta¬ 
tion Systems Center 9600. 

“Our new Center has an important DOE cus¬ 
tomer, the Transportation Safeguards Division,” says 
James. “We will continue our priority support of that 

customer while we 
seek new opportuni¬ 
ties to support the 
nation’s ever-grow¬ 
ing transportation 
problems, such as 
highway safety and 
congestion, and the 
increasingly com¬ 
plex relations be¬ 
tween the various 
transportation 
modes.” 



JAMES KELSEY 


James joined Sandia’s Aerodynamics Depart¬ 
ment in 1968 and spent the next eight years con¬ 
ducting aerodynamic and flight mechanics 
analyses and experimentation, specializing in hy¬ 
personic applications. From 1977 to 1979, he per¬ 
formed feasibility and utility studies of conceptual 
weapon systems. In 1979, he transferred to the 
Drilling Technology Division and worked with a 


group that developed advanced drilling technology 
for geothermal energy exploitation applications. 

He was promoted to Supervisor of the 
Drilling Technology Division in 1981. He joined 
the Advanced Technology Division in 1986 and 
was project manager for a number of robotic sys¬ 
tems, including Fire Ant. In 1988, James was pro¬ 
moted to Manager of the Advanced Systems 
Department, where his responsibilities included 
managing robotic systems activities. He was also 
responsible for advanced communications tech¬ 
nology, systems integration of advanced security 
systems, and software/hardware development of 
large data fusion systems. 

James has a BS and MS in aerospace engineer¬ 
ing from the University of Texas, and under 
Sandia’s Educational Assistance Program, he re¬ 
ceived an MS and PhD in electrical engineering 
from UNM. He is a member of IEEE and the New 
Mexico Society of Professional Engineers. 

He enjoys travel, photography, and wood¬ 
working. James and his wife Suzanne live in 
Four Hills. 

* * * 

CAROL YARNALL to Director of Division 
Operations Center 5500. 

“I’m pleased to be able to use my Air Force ex¬ 
perience to manage the technical activities of the mil¬ 
itary liaison function and to help the Defense Pro¬ 
grams Division im¬ 
plement a new orga¬ 
nizational mode,” 
says Carol. 

Carol joined the 
Labs in 1989 as a 
member of the Sur¬ 
vivability and Secu¬ 
rity System Studies 
Division. She con¬ 
ducted system stud¬ 
ies for Defense Nu¬ 
clear Agency’s “Fu¬ 
ture Look” program and led a project on the future 
world in Europe and its implications for the security 
and survivability of non-strategic nuclear forces. 

She was promoted to Supervisor of the Ex¬ 
ploratory Systems Organization’s Quality and 
Technical Division in 1990. While there she helped 
integrate technical, performance, ES&H, and qual¬ 
ity considerations throughout the organization. She 
initiated a contractor-led ES&H self-assessment, 
which was translated into a Labs-wide effort be¬ 
fore the 1991 Tiger Team visit, and was instrumen¬ 
tal in training staff and management. In August 
1991, Carol transferred to the Laboratory Develop¬ 
ment Organization’s Operations Division, where 
she served as technical and managerial advisor to 
the vice president on strategic planning, total qual¬ 
ity management, technology transfer, management 
information systems, and strategic studies. She was 
a member of the Sandia restructure team. 

Carol has a BS in chemistry from Wheeling 
Jesuit College and an MA in public administration 
from UNM. She graduated from the Senior Execu¬ 
tive Program at Harvard and attended Defense 
Systems Management College at Ft. Belvoir, Va., 
and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces at 
Ft. McNair, D.C. She is a member of the Society of 
Women Engineers, the Albuquerque Committee on 
Foreign Relations, the Air Force Association, and 
the Retired Officers Association. 

Carol served 26 years with the Air Force and re¬ 
tired as a colonel in 1989. Before joining Sandia, her 
last assignment was Deputy Director, Space and 
Strategic Defense Initiative Programs, Air Force Sec¬ 
retariat, the Pentagon. She was Commander of the 
13th Missile Warning Squadron and the Clear Air 
Force Station, Alaska; Chief, Space and Reconnais¬ 
sance System Division, AF Operational Test and 
Evaluation Center, KAFB; and Military Assistant 
to the Defense Science Board, the Pentagon. She 
also held R&D jobs at the Air Force Weapons Lab. 

Carol enjoys tennis, cross-country skiing, and 
reading. She and her husband Bill live in the SE 
Heights. 



CAROL YARNALL 


ALBERT WEST to Director of ES&H and 
Facilities Management Center 8600. 

“People and service will be the fundamental 
themes of our new center as we respond to tomor¬ 
row’s challenges,” says Al. 

A1 joined Sandia, Livermore in 1971 as a mem¬ 
ber of the Metallurgy Division, where he established 

the surface analysis 
laboratory and stud¬ 
ied hydrogen getters 
and catalysts. In 
1979, he transferred 
to the Command 
and Control Divi¬ 
sion, where he de¬ 
veloped concepts to 
protect special nu¬ 
clear materials from 
unauthorized ac¬ 
cess. He was pro¬ 
moted to Supervisor of the Exploratory Chemistry 
Division in 1977, with responsibilities for weapon 
materials compatibility, polymer chemistry, and tri¬ 
tium research. In 1985, he became Supervisor of 
Planning Staff and was customer interface with DOE 
HQ and provided logistical support to the Livermore 
vice president and site management team. 

In 1986, Al transferred to Advanced Systems 
Division, a group that conducted engineering re¬ 
search and constructed prototype hardware for the 
nuclear directed-energy weapons program. He 
also served as technical advisor during construc¬ 
tion of the Defense Engineering Laboratory com¬ 
plex at Livermore. 

Al was promoted to Manager of the Test and 
Model Labs Department in 1991, with responsbili- 
ties for environmental test activities, fabrication 
facilities, and the Tritium Research Laboratory. 

He has a BA in chemistry from the University 
of Oregon and an MS and PhD in chemistry from 
the University of California at Berkeley. Before 
coming to Sandia, Al worked at Lawrence Berke¬ 
ley Laboratory while he was in graduate school. 
He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, the 
American Physical Society, the American Chemi¬ 
cal Society, and the American Defense Prepared¬ 
ness Society. 

Al enjoys amateur wine making, sailing on 
San Francisco Bay, and woodworking. He and his 
wife Carol live in Castro Valley. *JC 



ALBERT WEST 


Take Note 

Marcia Sutton, assistant professor at UNM, 
and Nicholas Mann, an experienced tour guide 
and author, are organizing a “Circle of Stones” 
tour of Britain’s Stone Age and Celtic sites in 
June. The tour leaves Albuquerque on June 1 
and returns June 14. The tour will include sites 
such as Stonehenge, stone rows on the moors at 
Avebury, Neolithic architecture at Cornwall, 
Tintagel (legendary birthplace of King Arthur), 
Glastonbury (likely site of King Arthur’s king¬ 
dom and grave), the Roman baths at Bath, the 
cathedrals of Salisbury and Wells, and other an¬ 
cient places in southern England. Tour cost, in¬ 
cluding round-trip airfare from Albuquerque, is 
$2,400 (includes all transportation, accommoda¬ 
tion, tours, fees, and meals, except lunches and 
three dinners). For more information, contact 
Marcia Sutton on 293-4469 or Nicholas Mann 
on 291-8463. 

* * * 

To help mid-life and older women over¬ 
come obstacles in finding employment, the 
YWCA Career Services Center is conducting a 
series of eight workshops through April 23 at 
the YWCA (7201 Paseo del Norte NE). The 
workshops will train women in job search 
strategies, including deciding on a career and 
identifying marketable skills. Cost is $10. For 
more information and to register, contact the 
YWCA on 822-9922. Space is limited. 




LAB NEWS » April 3,1992 « Page Ten 


An Eight-Year Effort 

Orval Jones Builds 18 th-Century Style Harpsichord 



TUNING TIME — Orval Jones (20) tunes the French harpsichord that he completed last year. The colorful 
painting on the sound board was done by Camille Gibson (113). The small white objects, called jacks, pluck 
the 189 harpsichord strings. These strings wrap around the black wrest pins, which can be turned to increase 
or decrease the tension on the strings and change their pitch. 


Perseverance, patience, and a passion for 
fine furniture and fine music have been com¬ 
bined by Orval Jones (20) to produce one of his 
proudest personal accomplishments — the build¬ 
ing of a beautiful, full-sized harpsichord. Mod¬ 
eled after an 18th century instrument by Pascal 
Taskin, it is called a French double manual harp¬ 
sichord — with two keyboards, one stairstepped 
above the other. 

Orval, Sandia’s Executive VP for Programs, 
began the project in 1983 and completed it only 
last year, but says he didn’t work on it at all for 
several years in the late ’80s when a little short of 
personal-project time. 

Although Orval constructed the instrument us¬ 
ing a kit, it was no small task. “The kit comes with 
instructions, but they’re pretty bare-boned, leaving 
a lot of interpretation to the individual builder. It 
has hundreds of pieces, and the wooden pieces are 
all in primitive condition. I didn’t keep track of the 
hours I spent on the project, but I’d guess that I 
probably put in about 1,500 hours or so on it.” 

Equal Time for Three Tasks 

He says this time was divided about equally 
among three tasks — constructing the case and 
bench; painting, finishing, and decorating; and in¬ 
stalling the strings, keyboard, and jacks. 

Orval plays for his own entertainment and re¬ 
laxation, and only reluctantly for others (nosey 
LAB NEWS editors included). He says that his 
three grown children are more accomplished and 
hints that harpsichords may one day be a part of 
their inheritance. 

He acknowledges several false starts before 
he got cranking on building it. “In the mid-’70s, I 
became very interested in the sound of harpsi¬ 
chords, and I saw a magazine ad for a harpsichord 

“Sometimes I look at it and think, 
‘gosh, I really can’t believe I did that.’ ” 

kit. I wrote off to that company and later to sev¬ 
eral more, but didn’t decide to really build one 
until 1982. 

“I learned then that a local pathologist, Charlie 
Palmer, was in the process of building one. I called 
him, and he said that this particular company was 
having a sale on its kits. That was enough to tip me 
over the edge, and I ordered one. Charlie also gave 
me lots of valuable advice while I was building it 
and let me use his paint room.” 

Obviously proud of his accomplishment, but 
modest about it, Orval says, “There are times when 
I wondered whether I’d ever complete it. Some¬ 
times I look at it and think, ‘gosh, I really can’t be¬ 
lieve I did that.’ ” 



FINISHED PRODUCT — The satin finish on 


Orval’s harpsichord consists of five coats of hand- 
rubbed enamel. The exterior is a dark rust, and 
the interior is a harmonizing cameo cream. Gold- 
leaf stripes and molding accents provide an ele¬ 
gant finishing touch. 


Orval seems particularly proud of the one part 
of the job that he didn’t do — the ornate painting 
on the sound board (see photo) that was done by 
Camille Gibson of Corporate Policies Dept. 113. 
(However, Camille wasn’t a Labs employee at the 
time; she joined Sandia in 1989 after getting her 
business degree.) 

Camille’s colorful sound board painting in¬ 
cludes a gold seal incorporating Orval’s name, 
bright flowers, and a bird sitting on a dead tree 
branch. Such depictions are often used on harpsi¬ 
chord sound boards, explains Orval: “They are 
symbolic in relation to the wood of the sound 
board, meaning, ‘In life I was silent, but in death 
I sing.’ ” 

The harpsichord is the latest of his many 
woodworking projects, which include grandfather 


clocks, coffee tables, and occasional tables. Until 
about four years ago when he had a large work¬ 
shop built in his back yard, Orval did most projects 
in his garage and even in the house. 

In fact, he had large parts of the partially com¬ 
pleted harpsichord on his dining room table for a 
time before his shop was completed. “An uncom¬ 
pleted harpsichord on the dining room table is per¬ 
haps the ultimate conversation piece,” he notes. 
“My wife, Pauline, was probably happier than I 
was to see my workshop completed.” 

Orval plans to build a second harpsichord — a 
single-keyboard Flemish harpsichord — and al¬ 
ready has the kit. But it’s going to be a year or two 
before he starts it. “I’m still recovering from this 
one,” he says. »LP 


Sandia News Briefs 

Sandia to Co-sponsor “Recycle ’92” Next Week 

Information and new ideas about recycling will be shared by government, industry, and community 
groups at the New Mexico Governor’s Symposium on Recycling at the Albuquerque Convention Center on 
April 9 and 10. Sandia is a co-sponsor of the symposium, where information about materials collection, 
transportation, and markets will be offered. General symposium hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Thursday, 
April 9, and 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. the following day. Also, a free “Vendor’s Showcase” will be open to the pub¬ 
lic from noon to 6:30 p.m. on the 9th and from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the 10th. The showcase will feature equip¬ 
ment, processes, and products made from recyclable materials. For registration information, call 243-1344, 
or for general information, call Sandia’s recycling coordinator, Louise Bland (3422), on 4-2540. 

Levin Designated Certified Benefit Specialist 

Jann Levin of Benefits Systems and Health Care Planning Dept. 3545 has been designated a Certified 
Employee Benefit Specialist (CEBS). The certification is by the International Foundation of Employee Ben¬ 
efits Plans and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Jann qualified by passing a series of 
10 national employee benefit exams. One other Sandian has a CEBS designation: Mark Biggs of Benefits 
Planning and Pension Fund Management Dept. 3544. 

Sandia Ties the Knot’ With NM Tech and UTEP 

Sandia agreed recently to help foster interaction in research and academics among the Labs, the New 
Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology (NM Tech), and the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). The 
alliance is expected to help researchers at the three institutions broaden their experience base, use public re¬ 
sources more effectively, facilitate technology development, and encourage technology transfer. 

On-campus liaison offices have been created at NM Tech and UTEP to help facilitate collaborative re¬ 
search, educational initiatives, surplus equipment loans, and mutual requests for speakers, consultants, and 
adjunct professors. For more information, contact Julian Lovato (35B) on 5-9760. 







LAB NEWS » April 3,1992 ■ Page Eleven 


f Finback 


Q: I understand that Transportation Services 
no longer has vehicles available to loan. Is there 
a master list of organizations with vehicles that 
may be loaned to other organizations? The vehi¬ 
cle loan pool has been a valuable tool for Sandi- 
ans to obtain vehicles on an occasional basis. 
Now that this option no longer exists, I must 
spend more time than before to track down a ve¬ 
hicle when I need one. Are there any plans to 
change this in the near future? I suggest publish¬ 
ing a list of vehicles and their organizations in 
the Sandia phone directory. 

A: Effective Oct. 1, 1991, vehicles were put 
on a charge-back system requiring individual 
directorates to bear vehicle costs. Prior to this 
system, all vehicles were funded indirectly. Un¬ 
fortunately, there is no funding at present for 
continued operation of a universal loan pool. Re¬ 
cently, we sent vehicle cost and assignment in¬ 
formation to directors or their administrative 
assistants for review and asked them to identify 
vehicles in their directorates that might be avail¬ 
able on a short-term basis. 

It is sometimes possible to lease used vehicles 
from the Government Services Administration 
downtown on a month-to-month basis if any are 
available. To inquire about this possibility, contact 
Bob Barton (3423) on 4-3086. 

Jim Martin (3400) 

Q: Why are medical insurance deductibles 
based on salary? Other insurance premiums (car, 
life, etc.) aren’t. This seems like social engineering. 
Why do we have this policy? Is there a valid rea¬ 
son other than social engineering? 

A: Before the present formula for deductibles 
under the Medical Care Plan (MCP) was selected, 
various alternatives were investigated. The for¬ 
mula we implemented appeared the most equi¬ 
table, because it was based on the ability to bear 
the cost (somewhat social engineering) and was 
also administratively acceptable. 

One option would have been to increase the 
deductible based on inflation. Because the de¬ 
ductible had not been increased since 1977, it 
would have gone up to $500 for all individuals and 
would have continued to increase each year there¬ 
after. Another option would have been to deduct a 
percentage of annual pay, say 0.3 percent; many 
companies use this formula. However, it is 
difficult to administrate and requires that individ¬ 
ual salaries be provided to administrators, which 


can be a touchy situation. A final option would 
have been to charge a specific deductible for the 
company-paid plan, say $500, and allow employ¬ 
ees to purchase a lower deductible through pre¬ 
mium contributions. 

As with most Sandia benefits, the MCP must 
be comparable to AT&T practice. AT&T uses a 
deductible based on salary tiers. Each employee is 
identified in a tier, but actual salary is not re¬ 
vealed. Because we knew the increased deductible 


Got a Question or Suggestion? 

Employees who have suggestions for 
improvements at Sandia or who need quick 
answers to Feedback questions are encour¬ 
aged to telefax their suggestions/questions to 
the Employee Communications Dept. 3162 
at 844-0645. For additional information 
about how the system works, call Janet Car¬ 
penter (3162) on 844-7841. She can also 
provide printed Feedback forms if you can¬ 
not locate one where they are stocked in 
common areas throughout the Labs. 


would be a personal budgeting concern for some 
employees, we implemented the Reimbursement 
Spending Accounts (RSA) at the same time. This 
program allows employees to set aside tax-free 
dollars from their paychecks to cover eligible 
health care expenses, including deductibles. Open 
enrollment for RSA is held each October. 

Finally, beginning Jan. 1, a Health Mainte¬ 
nance Organization (HMO) option was offered to 
Sandians in Albuquerque. Enrollment for this pro¬ 
gram is also in October. Under an HMO, instead 
of deductibles, a copayment is required at the time 
of treatment. 

Ralph Bonner (3500) 

Q: Recently all of Directorate 1400 was 
shown a security videotape on “Opsec,” or opera¬ 
tional security. For an organization that prides it¬ 
self on the educational level of its staff, this video 
was mind-numbing. Between the 6th-grade intel¬ 
lectual level and the constant use of security jar¬ 
gon, this video was the mental equivalent of 
Novocain™. 

Far more troubling was the attempt to associ¬ 
ate anti-nuclear activities with “unpatriotic” ac¬ 
tivities. On at least two occasions in the tape, 
anti-nuclear activists were lumped together with 


terrorists and foreign spies. This seems to be an 
example of the security establishment’s inability to 
differentiate between legitimate dissent and gen¬ 
uine threat. The last time I checked, free speech 
was still one of the national values we are trying 
to protect. Perhaps while the staff is being sub¬ 
jected to idiotic videos on security we can show 
security management a videotape in American 
civics. 

Anything less than withdrawal of this tape 
from circulation will demonstrate the security or¬ 
ganization’s unwillingness to recognize the differ¬ 
ence between espionage and constitutionally 
protected speech. 

A: I obtained and watched the 12-1/2-minute 
videotape checked out to Org. 1400 Feb. 12, ti¬ 
tled “The OPSEC Picture Puzzle.” I had four 
other employees, two of whom were not associ¬ 
ated with Security, view it as well. We all agreed 
that, though it was perhaps less than inspira¬ 
tional, the video message was accurate and worth 
considering. 

The video was prepared in 1989 by DOE’s 
Nevada Operations Office as a general security ed¬ 
ucation aid. As you stated, there are two refer¬ 
ences to anti-nuclear activities. The exact quotes 
follow; 

“Be aware that there are foreign agents, terrorist 
groups, the criminal element, and anti-nuclear sup¬ 
porters who are actively gathering information to 
disrupt critical DOE work.” 

“No matter how insignificant they may seem, 
pieces of information like these are indicators of our 
capabilities and our plans, and as such provide vital 
clues about sensitive programs. The fact is that there 
are adversaries at work in our community. They 
could be from competing companies, anti-nuclear 
groups, or foreign governments. In any case, at¬ 
tempts are made every day to fit pieces of informa¬ 
tion together to form a total picture of sensitive 
activities. As DOE employees and contractors we are 
entrusted with privileged information about pro¬ 
grams, exercises, facilities, and capabilities...” 

These statements are generally in keeping 
with DOE’s security programs. It is clear to me 
that the reference to anti-nuclear activists is not di¬ 
rected at those who simply disagree with or legally 
protest DOE actions. 

I will have our attorneys, and DOE’s attorneys 
if necessary, review the tape. Meanwhile, the tape 
will remain in our library and be available for use. 

Jim Martin (3400) 



SERVING IT HOT — Three retired Sandians and one retired DOE employee 
spend much of their time serving hot meals and bussing tables at the Good 
Shepherd Center in downtown Albuquerque. C.C. Riley (left photo, a retired 
Sandia foundry foreman) gets up at 3:30 every weekday morning to make toast 
and coffee for the 6:30 breakfast crowd. He also works weekday evenings and 



some weekends. In the right photo, Leo Apodaca (left, a retired DOE employee) 
and Bob Garcia (retired Sandia Personnel Director) serve hot meals. On a typical 
evening, the shelter feeds 300 homeless people. “It’s the most important work 
I do all week,” says Bob. Sandia retiree Chris Garcia (not seen) also works at 
the shelter. 





LAB NEWS • April 3,1992 • Page Twelve 



Q: What is the bluish-green chemical that has 
been sprayed on the bare ground in and around 
Area I? How can I get a copy of the MSDS for it? 

A: The bluish-green chemical is Surflan, a 
pre-emptive herbicide that adheres to soil particles 
and kills weed seeds before they germinate. The 
chemical is water soluble, non-staining, and harm¬ 
less. For a copy of the product safety data sheet, 
call Carol Harrison (7100) on 5-9317. 

Jim Jacobs (7100) 

Q: We have heard about empowerment and 
ownership and in some cases have seen them 
work, but one area where neither is a great suc¬ 
cess is building maintenance. Many small items 
are not being handled because no one consistently 
takes the initiative to fill out the forms requesting 
the work. It appears that no one really owns the 
buildings. We have signs saying that a certain di¬ 
rector is responsible for ES&H, but I don’t believe 
that is the person who should be concerned with 
seeing that light bulbs are replaced. 

It seems to me that each building should have 
one person formally assigned to making sure that 
normal maintenance is done on a regular basis. 
For example, several fluorescent lamps in the 
atrium of Bldg. 836 have been out for weeks and 
the handle on a hot water fountain on the first 
floor is broken. If one person were responsible for 
seeing that such items are repaired, there would 
be a much higher probability of getting it done. In 
larger buildings, someone could also take respon¬ 
sibility for heating and cooling. Regardless of how 
much empowerment and ownership we have, very 
few folks are going to consistently take the time to 
write up maintenance requests unless they are as¬ 
signed to do so. 

A: Your feedback addresses two concerns: 
space ownership and Maintenance Service Re¬ 
quests (MSRs). Consistent with the requirements 
in the ES&H Manual, Facilities Operations and 
Maintenance (7800) employees accept ownership 
of building equipment rooms, utilities chases, and 
building service equipment. Office and laboratory 
areas are owned by individuals who operate or oc¬ 
cupy the space, and public or common-use areas, 
such as corridors and stairwells, are owned by 
Building ES&H coordinators or their designees. 



ES&H coordinators ensure that no space is left 
unassigned, and designated owners are responsible 
for the safety and health of building occupants as 
well as for housekeeping and MSRs. 

I agree that the process to initiate MSRs for 
small items needs improvement. The input pro¬ 
cess is being revised. In the near future, MSRs 
will be accepted by phone on 4-4571. Emergen¬ 
cies will be handled immediately; other small re¬ 
pairs will typically be completed in two to three 
working days. I thank you for sharing your con¬ 
cerns about space ownership, and have reviewed 
your feedback with the Bldg. 836 ES&H Coordi¬ 
nator, who accepts ownership of the atrium and 
corridor areas. 

Jim Jacobs (7100) 


Q: Sandia’s telephone directory is a disgrace. 
It has been over five months since the latest edi¬ 
tion was published, and it will likely be another 
five months before employees see the next edition. 
The previously used loose-leaf method was far su¬ 
perior; changes to it were distributed monthly and 
even semi-monthly in a timely manner. Why was 
the loose-leaf system abandoned? I recommend 
Sandia return to the method that worked so well. 

A: Your comments on the timeliness of the 
Sandia Directory are well-founded. Directory in¬ 
formation will always be somewhat out of date, 
given the rate of change at Sandia. When we 
switched to the new format, we intended to pub¬ 
lish a new directory every quarter. However, the 
Restructure Committee advised us to delay the 
next edition until after new Centers are in place. 
Since it takes about two months to compile the in¬ 
formation and publish a complete directory, you 
can expect to see a new one around late May. 

The loose-leaf form was abandoned primarily 
because it was a constant struggle to keep up with 
it and it was costing a considerable amount of la¬ 
bor. We calculate that Sandia will gain the equiva¬ 
lent of eight full-time employees a year in update 
time alone. Incidentally, about 80 percent of those 
who returned our feedback form favored the new 
format. We received some good suggestions and 
will respond with an even better product next 
time. We hope to have an on-line directory by fall. 

Herb Pitts (3100) 


SHOULD THEY DUCK?— 
No, these retired and other¬ 
wise former Sandians aren’t 
actually under a low-flying 
airplane; they're standing in 
front of one of the Atomic 
Museum’s exhibits at the 
edge of a newly expanded 
parking lot on Kirtland AFB. 
Museum volunteers (from 
left) Hank Willis, Harry Kin¬ 
ney, Betty Brake, Raymond 
Caster, and Joe Taylor say 
they enjoy the chance to 
help the Museum. They 
also want to get the word 
out that there are plenty of 
opportunities for more vol¬ 
unteers, and that they'd es¬ 
pecially like to have Sandia 
retirees working with them. 
Volunteer Coordinator Vir¬ 
ginia Salazar says she 
would be delighted to talk 
with prospective volunteers; 
Virginia can be reached on 
845-5515. 




“WOMEN ON THE MOVE” awards went to two 
Sandians this year — Pauline Ho (left, 1126) and 
Ann Riley (3726). From dozens of nominations, the 
YWCA annually selects a limited number of hon- 
orees for their leadership, community involvement, 
and professional accomplishments. Pauline, se¬ 
lected in the “science and research" category, has 
been at Sandia since 1981 and conducts research 
in processes involved in chemical vapor deposition. 
She is chairperson of the Asian Leadership and Out¬ 
reach Committee. Ann, a Sandia contracting repre¬ 
sentative, is a volunteer and board member for All 
Faiths Receiving Home, a board member of the 
New Mexico Law Enforcement Academy, and presi¬ 
dent of the San Gabriel Area Neighborhood Asso¬ 
ciation. Ann was selected in the “other pro¬ 
fessional" category. 



Recent Retirees 



Jewel Wheelis 
9531 34 


Chad Looney 

5145 40 


Jim Scheibner 
9531 34 


Harry Kovaschetz 
2485 41 







LAB NEWS ■ April 3,1992 • Page Thirteen 


Eclectic Collection 

From Washington to Lincoln to Kennedy, 
Barry Schrader Collects Mementos of Them All 



WHERE’S WALDO? — One of these characters is Barry Schrader (8622); 
he’s the one with glasses. The others are likenesses of Abraham Lincoln. 
Barry collects Lincoln memorabilia along with historic newspaper front pages, 
antique printing presses, old Bibles, and political campaign signs. 

(Photos by Linda Doran) 


What kind of person collects Abraham 
Lincoln busts, famous newspaper front 
pages, old handset type, and antique print¬ 
ing presses? 

How about someone who says he likes 
Abraham Lincoln not just because he was a 
great American, but “because he was big 
and lanky and had a beard like me.” 

Besides that, notes Barry Schrader 
(8622), public information specialist at 
Sandia, Livermore, he and Lincoln hail 
from the same state of Illinois, where Barry 
once owned several weekly newspapers. 

Later, when he was 26, Barry moved to 
California and took a job as a newspaper 
editor in Livermore, where he still resides 
with his wife, Kay, and their youngest son, 
Darrin. 

He cultivates his passion for American 
history and his enthusiasm for the printing 
industry by collecting mementos of both. 

He frequently labors in a makeshift print 
shop he has set up in his garage, which is 
reminiscent of a hands-on museum. He of¬ 
ten shares his love of history with schoolchildren, 
displaying his laminated newspaper pages at local 
schools. 

Among the historic newspaper pages in Barry’s 
collection are the assassinations of President John 

“Ask my wife what she thinks of our 
garage packed full of my miscellany.” 

Kennedy in 1963, presidential candidate Robert 
Kennedy in 1968, and Rev. Martin Luther King in 
1968; the San Francisco earthquake of 1906; the 


Retiree Open Houses 

The Labs is holding an open house in honor of 
retiree Robert Neel (9522) in the Area I Cafeteria 
(Bldg. 861) on Friday, April 10, from 2:30 to 4:30 
p.m. Refreshments will be served. Friends and ac¬ 
quaintances are invited. 

* * * 

The Labs is holding an open house in honor of 
retiree Robert O’Nan (2346) in Bldg. 891, Rm. 
1031, on Monday, April 13, from 10 a.m. to noon. 
Refreshments will be served. Friends and acquain¬ 
tances are invited. 


Summer Housing Needed 

Sandia is seeking furnished summer 
housing and apartments for summer em¬ 
ployees. The housing is for college profes¬ 
sors and graduate students who will arrive 
in May or June and leave in August or early 
September. If you have a summer rental, 
please call Renee Foster on 844-3441 by 
April 8. 


Retiree Deaths 


Salomon Baca (64).Feb. 1 

Phil Moya (63).Feb. 1 

Enroll Gay (72).Feb. 5 

Murt McMullen (71).Feb. 6 

James Wade (87).Feb. 10 

Johnnie Duran (60).Feb. 12 

Wallace Eder (74).Feb. 12 

Charles Hoyle (62).Feb. 15 

Marion Brown (82).Feb. 20 

Charles Randall (66).Feb. 23 

Kathleen Sadler (76).Feb. 28 


discovery of gold in California in 1848; the end of 
both the First and Second world wars; and the 
deaths of Presidents Franklin Roosevelt and Harry 
Truman. Other newspapers in his possession in¬ 
clude an obituary of George Washington from 
1799 and a story about the assassination of Abra¬ 
ham Lincoln in 1865. 

Still Uses the Antique Presses 

Barry actually uses the antique printing 
presses in his collection. The two presses — a 
1911 Peerless handplaten and an 1888 Golding 

Collecting letter presses is a fairly 
weighty hobby — his presses weigh 
2,000 and 750 pounds each. 

Pearl, are completely operational. Barry often em¬ 
ploys the 1911 model to print cards, flyers, and in¬ 
vitations publicizing community events. 

As Barry himself points out, collecting letter 
presses is a fairly weighty hobby — his two 
presses weigh 2,000 and 750 pounds, respectively, 
and the accompanying type drawers weigh 20 to 


50 pounds each. (He has more than 
100 such drawers, known as Califor¬ 
nia Job Cases, each containing let¬ 
ters and numbers in a particular 
typeface.) 

To prepare his machinery for a 
printing job, he painstakingly ar¬ 
ranges letters in a metal form or 
chase and anchors them in place with 
wood blocks and expandable metal 
quoins. When he is finished with 
that, he smears ink onto a rotating 
plate on the press. Rollers pick up the 
ink and transfer it first to the type, 
which then transfers the ink to a 
blank piece of paper — producing 
one printed page at a time. 

Some of Barry’s recent publica¬ 
tions include an American Amateur 
Press Association (AAPA) tribute to 
Walt Brovald, a long-time letter- 
press hobbyist and newspaper pub¬ 
lisher in Minnesota, and an invita¬ 
tion to an autograph signing for a 
book Barry wrote himself, “Will the Last Person 
Leaving Livermore Please Unscrew the Bulb in 
Fire Station One.” 

Runs in the Family 

Besides his printing presses and newspaper 
front pages, Barry also collects old Bibles and po¬ 
litical campaign memorabilia, including all the 
yard signs from local elections for the past 20 
years. 

If that sounds like a lot of collecting, Barry 
notes that he still doesn’t hold a candle to his fa¬ 
ther, who collected cups and saucers, railroad 
lanterns, antique tools, pipes and cigar holders, salt 
dishes, musket loaders, pistols, and samples of 
barbed wire. 

Barry’s older son, Todd, has also picked up on 
the family tradition, amassing collections of Star 
Wars and Batman toys. 

In fact, the only side of the family not actively 
involved in collecting is the female side. Barry’s 
mother sold most of her husband’s voluminous 
collections after his death. As for his own wife, 
Barry quips, “Just ask her what she thinks of our 
garage packed full of my miscellany.” «LD 



BARRY PREPARES to insert a metal form into a 1911 Peerless handplaten, one of two completely opera¬ 
tional antique printing presses in his garage. 



















MILEPOSTS 

IABHB/VS 


April 1992 


Charlie Thomson 


Eddy McClain 


Rudolph Martinez 


Al Manzanares 


James Simpson 


Hugh Church 


Lee Ann Hubbs 


Larry O'Connell 


i'liiinii 
Art Jimenez 


Carla Perea 


George Samara 


Zane Lawson 


Juan Waquie 


Donald Wright 


Bob Bedford 


Norm Warpinski 


Edward Austin 



i i t * I 


Hr mmM 




%' *' %] 


a 

IgM 

• 



1 *• v 

■ 

B 1 

■ 

mm 


IK Wp* 

fl mW | 


2l 


35 




































LAB NEWS • April 3,1992 » Page Fifteen 


UNCLASSIFIED ADWmiMINTS • ^CLASSIFIED ADVSftTOEMENn • UNCLASSIFIED ADVERTOSMSHn • (UNCLASSIFIED AOVURTBSMIMi 


Deadline: Friday noon before 
week of publication unless changed 
by holiday. Mail to Dept. 3162. 


Ad Rules 

1. Limit 20 words, including last name 
and home phone. 

2. Include organization and full name 
with each ad submission. 

3. Submit each ad in writing. No 
phone-ins. 

4. Use 8</a by 11 -inch paper. 

5. Use separate sheet for each ad 
category. 

6. Type or print ads legibly; use only 
accepted abbreviations. 

7. One ad per category per issue. 

8. No more than two insertions of 
same “for sale" or “wanted” item. 

9. No “For Rent” ads except for em¬ 
ployees on temporary assignment. 

10. No commercial ads. 

11. For active and retired Sandians 
and DOE employees. 

12. Housing listed for sale is available 
for occupancy without regard to 
race, creed, color, or national origin. 

13. “Work Wanted" ads limited to stu¬ 
dent-aged children of employees. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

FORMAL DRESSES, great condition, 
worn once, baby blue size 4, purple 
w/matching shoes size 7m, pink 
size 10, $35-$50. Ponce, 831-6864 
after 6 p.m. 

DOWN VEST, “Hunter Mountain,” 
beige/navy w/red accent, zip-up 
pockets, size small, gift (never 
worn), cost $100, asking $25. 
cVhkario POP-SI 

WEIGHT BENCH, w/sit-up attachment, 
$15. Finger, 266-8906. 

DAN WESSON .357-MAG., $185; 
Ruger .22, single-six, short, long 
cylinders, $225; Kelty Ridgeway 
child carrier, $80. Dodd, 293-3404. 

QUEEN-SIZE SOFA SLEEPER, like 
new, $150; French provincial buffet, 
$250; maple double headboard, 
$12; old drying rack, $15. Ramel, 
821-0475. 

MINIATURE DACHSHUND PUPPIES, 
AKC-registered, long-hair, excellent 
w/children, great personalities, see 
mother & father, 3 red males, $250- 
$300. Ferrell, 888-3023. 

LAWN MOWER, MTD, 21-in., 4-hp, 
hardly used; twin bed, headboard, 
mattress; folding cot, mattress, 
springs, excellent for child. Worden, 
881-4486. 

KING-SIZE WATERBED, w/heating el¬ 
ement, $75 OBO; get in shape 
w/the Octagym exerciser, only $45. 
Maldonado, 836-6923 after 5 p.m. 

JETSKI, '85 Kawasaki 550, clean, Im¬ 
ran paint, many extras, runs great, 
$2,100. Striker, 296-8206. 

BOX SPRING, bed frame, & head- 
board, single, $100; 360-KB floppy 
drive w/dual controller, $40; exec¬ 
utive desk chair, $100. Chavez, 
275-0490. 

YORKSHIRE TERRIER PUPPIES, 
purebred, no papers, $225/female, 
$200/male. Gabaldon, 292-7340. 

INFLATABLE RAFT, 4-person, w/4 life 
preservers; antique Singer sewing 
machine/cabinet Guerra, 256-1356. 

SOFTWARE LIBRARY: Lotus 2.2, Win¬ 
dows 3.0, WordPerfect 5.0 com¬ 
plete set, + more programs, original 
books & disks, $350/all. Bremer, 
292-4912. 

SOLO-FLEX, complete, w/butterfly & 
leg extension units, excellent condi¬ 
tion, $850 OBO. Padilla, 294-3127. 

DINING ROOM SET: informal dining, 
includes 6 chairs, 2 leaves, $200. 
Perich, 293-8261. 

ROYAL UPRIGHT VACUUM, $25; 
brand-new fondue set, $10; like 
new bike rack, $20. Anderson, 
897-2772. 

ESTATE FURNITURE: 80-in. long low- 
pillow-back sofa, earth-tone floral, 
$200; pair coordinating burnt- 
orange velvet chairs, $200; good 
condition. Bamum, 298-2865. 

LANE BARCALOUNGER, brown, ex¬ 
cellent condition, wall-hugger; tank- 
type vacuum cleaner. Kindschi, 
256-0531. 


TWO NEW GOLF SKIRT & TOP 
SETS, navy, white, size 10, $12/ea.; 
new golf shoes, 7AA, $9. Hines, 
821-8592. 

WOODSTOVE/FIREPLACE INSERT, 
heats more than 1,000 sq. ft, w/fire- 
place cover, $300 OBO. Blaich, 
271-8470. 

SOFTWARE, Volks Writer Deluxe Plus 
word processor, 2 disks, flight sim¬ 
ulator, Ver. 2.1 for IBM, $25/ea. 
Henry, 266-6467. 

REAR BUMPER for '91 Jeep Chero¬ 
kee, black, slightly scratched, $40 
OBO. Dye, 897-0304. 

STEEL SHELVING ASSEMBLIES, ad¬ 
justable, open frame, new, $30. 
Silverman, 298-1308. 

DYNASTAR STARSOFT 185 SKIS, 
bought Dec. 1987, Look Nevada 
Grand Prix bindings, Nordica size 
9 woman's boots, $125 OBO. 
Leeman, 299-9149. 

GREAT PYRENEES, 11-month-old fe¬ 
male, white, w/papers, needs home, 
doghouse & runner included, $150. 
Pompeo, 293-9204. 

CRIB, $40; high chair, $30; infant/tod¬ 
dler car seats, $25 & $30; walker; 
bassinet; changing table; infant girl's 
clothing. Hodge, 266-6501. 

ENTERTAINMENT CENTER, white¬ 
wash oak, w/matching 5-drawer 
dresser, $450; color TV, $100; Sony 
stereo receiver, $100; more. 
Fitzgerald, 265-7955. 

CRAFTSMAN TABLE SAW, 10-in., 
w/stand & 3 extensions; 8-in. bench 
grinder; 18-in. jigsaw; 9-in. AC/DC 
color portable TV. Nunez, 884-3623. 

TWO NEW LOUNGE CHAIRS, pur¬ 
chased from Homestead House, 
paid $677 ea., sell $350 ea. 
Harrsion, 884-4994. 

MINIATURE DACHSHUNDS, no pa¬ 
pers, 8 wks. old, 3 males, $150/ea. 
Gutierrez, 293-9030. 

KING-SIZE WATERBED, baffled foun¬ 
dation, 6 drawers, cushioned edg¬ 
ing, deluxe UL heater, mattress/cov- 
er, $99. Hagerman, 275-3326. 

DESKS, $50 & $150 cash. Rea, 
296-4620. 

QUEEN-SIZE BED, Sealy Comfort 
Guard, box spring, mattress, & met¬ 
al frame, good condition, $175. 
Henderson, 344-7894. 

AKC CHOWS, 8 wks. old, excellent 
quality, 1 bid. male, 2 dnn. females, 
first shots, health guaranteed, par¬ 
ents on premises, $200 negotiable. 
Brown, 884-0345. 

NCR COMPUTER, IBM XT-compatible, 
20M hard drive, 360K floppy, Epson 
dot-matrix printer, make offer. York, 
828-9505. 

CRAFTSMAN METAL LATHE, 12 x 36, 
on stand, w/complete accessory 
package, excellent condition, 
$1,250. Stinebaugh, 869-2270. 

ROWING MACHINE, w/electronic timer, 
“Tuntori” from Sears, like new, $125; 
“Orthopod" chiropractic back exer¬ 
ciser, $200. Borders, 823-9528. 

BULLET-PROOF GLASS, 2 panels, ap¬ 
prox. 15” x 18”, resists up to .44- 
magnum, $20; exquisite brass 
French-curve door handles, $50. 
Demos, 294-6492. 

FABRIC, 30-35 yards of pale-pink slip¬ 
per satin, still on roll, purchased for 
wedding that didn't happen, $120. 
Davis, 294-0139. 

HOOVER QUIK BROOM, $10; Tech¬ 
nics lOOW/dv receiver, needs parts, 
$25 OBO. Clark, 281-1243. 

PROJECTION SCREEN, 50 x 50, by 
Da-Lite, in original box, $40. 
Wagner, 823-9323. 

ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM: 6-com- 
ponent, fully loaded, w/speakers, 
$1,300 new, sell for $800; Thomas 
organ, new condition, $400 OBO. 
Martin, 294-2863 after 5 p.m. 

BATHROOM VANITY, solid oak, 48-in„ 
$250. Luther, 293-4462. 

WHEELCHAIR, good condition, $450 
value, asking $125. Ottinger, 
242-5944. 

HEATING DUCT, various sizes & fit¬ 
tings, half price or less; screens, 
copper 3-Lite casement, steel 
frame, $3/ea. VanVickle, 299-1240. 

KAR CADDY II, excellent condition, 
$575. Blaine, 299-1036. 

HOT SPRINGS SPA, indoor/outdoor, 
will fit through standard door, self- 
contained, back massager, fully in¬ 
sulated, litre new. Brodie, 836-6977. 


GUITAR PROCESSOR, Roland GP16 
w/Mk II pedal, $850; Martin Em18 
guitar (USA, neck thru), $425 OBO; 
dog run, $110. O’Toole, 866-0403. 

HUGE SALE, furniture, clothes, lots 
more, must see, Sat. & Sun., 8 
a.m.-5 p.m., 5431 Timberline NW 
(Taylor Ranch). Jaramillo, 898-7757. 

PING-PONG TABLE, full-size, folds up 
& rolls, 1 player playback feature, 
$50 OBO. Johnson. 296-3431. 

LEER FIBERGLASS SHELL, fits full- 
size pickup, pass-through window, 
sliding side windows w/screens, in¬ 
terior light excellent condition, $350. 
Zaorski, 281-9194. 

MACINTOSH COMPUTER, w/IMB 
RAM ext., floppy drive, keyboard, 
mouse, software & manuals, no 
hard disk, ideal for students. 
Chapman, 292-6877. 

TOWING DOLLY, adjustable width, ex¬ 
cellent condition, low mileage, spare 
included, $675. Horton, 883-7504. 

YARD SALE, April 4 & 5, corner of 
Hwy. 344 & W. Church, Edgewood, 
saddle, tack, piano, stereo, sleeper 
sofa, miscellaneous. Kulawinski, 
281-8694. 

SOLID OAK WATERBED, queen, com¬ 
plete, $500; Litton Generation II mi¬ 
crowave, $150; oak typewriter desk, 
$75; dining room table, $75. 
Yourick, 822-8148. 

BOUDOIR BENCH, beige velveteen, 
like new, $80; hardrock maple 
country hutch, 45 W x 18 D x 70 H, 
$300. Romero, 821-1924 after 5 
p.m./weekends. 

DROP-LEAF TABLE, Ethan Allen, 
solid maple, 2 leaves, $300; 2 an¬ 
tique oak chairs, make offer; 
framed Japanese print, $10. 
Krahling, 268-8126. 

BABY FURNITURE: matching set 
crib, cradle, dresser, changing 
table, also high chair, electric 
swing, more, all excellent condi¬ 
tion. Cieslak, 294-2383. 

REDWOOD CHAIRS (2), chaise 
lounge, small benches (end tables), 
new cushions, $60/all. Carlson, 
897-1850. 

ANTIQUES: 9-drawer cherry desk, 
$250; unique porcelain gas 
cook stove, $250; wrought-iron 
bed w/new full foundation, $250. 
Sisneros, 899-8048. 

REFRIGERATOR, $350; dresser & twin 
or double bed, $275; love seat, $50; 
rocker, $50; bookcase, $35; dinette 
set, $50. Drebing, 293-3335. 

FIBERGLASS CAMPER SHELL, 
w/locking back door, tinted windows, 
boot, 6 mos. old, excellent condition, 
was on Isuzu Pup, $550. Sanchez, 
831-0515. 

AEROBIC SHOES, new, mid-top, Ryka 
770, size 5-1/2, white w/hot-pink 
trim, for high, low, or bench/step 
aerobics, $50. Monaco, 293-2754. 

APPLE lie COMPUTER w/mono- 
chrome monitor, Epson printer, mis¬ 
cellaneous software, in good condi¬ 
tion, $300/all. Torres, 828-1679. 

EXERCISE BICYCLE, $50, recondi¬ 
tioned Hoover vacuum cleaner, 
w/attachments, $35; mini-tramp¬ 
oline, $10. Morris, 292-5112. 

GARAGE SALE, April 4, 8105 Palo 
Duro NE, dining room table, 
cedar chest, Victorian rocker, pic¬ 
nic table, bedding, much more. 
Vandetti, 299-2318. 

DAISYWHEEL PRINTER, 36 cps, 
parallel, Data South (Brother), 
sheet feeder, cable, switch box, 
original boxes, manuals, $250 
OBO. DeLand, 271-2129. 

AT&T PC, 640K RAM, 10-Meg. HD, 
floppy, mono, some software, $600; 
computer desk, w/hutch, $100; 
$675/both. Warner, 294-2639. 

ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, 
w/assorted updating annuals & 
dictionary, $700 OBO. Misak, 
892-3033 

MICROWAVE OVEN, Litton, digital, 1.2 
cu. ft., good working order, $125. 
Miller, 275-2231. 

TRANSPORTATION 

'84 FORD F-150, 4-spd„ 6-cyl„ 4K 
miles on new engine, $4,000 
OBO; dune buggy, 1600 Volkswa¬ 
gen, w/trailer, $1,800. Gabaldon, 
292-7340. 


'80 PRINDLE 16 CATAMARAN, all 
Harken, double trapeze, 7:1 main- 
sheet, new trampoline, 4 sails, 
cover, garaged, excellent, $1,400. 
Mu rata, 881-8459. 

'77 VOLKSWAGEN RABBIT, good 
body, new tires, runs fine, $900 
OBO. Miller, 292-5634. 

'77 CHEV. BLAZER, Cheyenne model, 
AT, nice interior, good body, $2,950 
OBO. Scrivner, 299-0356. 

'85 PONTIAC GRAND AM; '82 full-size 
Ford Bronoo; both priced below blue 
book. Richards, 281-9471. 

'89 DAIHATSU, like new, 45-mpg, 5- 
spd., AC, rear window defogger, 
42K miles (all highway), $4,000. 
Cole, 281-9873. 

'77 GMC MIDAS MOTORHOME, 19-ft, 
self-contained, 350 engine, 6 new 
tires, great condition, $7,500. Miller, 
281-4004. 

RALEIGH GRAND PRIX BICYCLE, 10- 
spd., 27-in., new tires, great condi¬ 
tion, $100. Hesch, 256-0758. 

REPOS: '89 Ford F250, 41K miles, 
AM/FM cassette, AC, PW, PL, 
cruise; '63 Chev. Impala SS; bids 
accepted through April 7; we re¬ 
serve the right to refuse all bids; 
subject to prior sale. SLFCU, 293- 
0500, ext. 344, ask for Pat. 

'83 WINNEBAGO LESHARO MO¬ 
TORHOME, diesel, 22-mpg., new 
tires, 30K miles, S.4, S.C., 20-ft., 
$7,900.OBO Babcock, 299-3121, 
leave message. 

'81 SUZUKI 450, good condition, 6- 
spd., new chain, extras, $600. 
Finch, 281-8141. 

'87 CHEV. VAN 20, Regency conver¬ 
sion included, rear air, 65K miles, 
new tires, brakes, shocks, etc., 
$11,750 NADA. McEwen, 271-1776 
after 5:30 p.m. 

'85 MERCURY MARQUIS BROUGHAM, 
3.8L V-6, AT, AC, tilt, cruise, all pow¬ 
er, $2,000. Schindwolf, 831-1940. 

CENTURION ACCORDO BICYCLE, 
19-in. frame, 12-spd., touring bike, 
like new condition, $125. Prew, 
296-3815. 

'81 HONDA PRELUDE, drivBable, good 
engine, body damage, make offer. 
York, 828-9505. 

'85 TOYOTA HUNTSMAN MO¬ 
TORHOME, 24K miles, new tires, 
many extras, excellent condition, 
$15,000. Wintersberger, 294-1289 
after 5 p.m. 

PEUGEOT 10-SPD. BICYCLE, excel¬ 
lent condition, $100 OBO. Clark, 
281-1243. 

ALUMINUM DEEP-V BOATS: 14-ft. 
Naden, $500; 12-ft. Larson, $300; 
9.9-hp Evinrude outboard, $400. 
Holmes, 292-0898. 

'89 FORD MUSTANG GT, loaded, new 
tires & battery, $9,500; '67 VW Rab¬ 
bit 67K miles, $2,500 OBO. Martin, 
294-2863 after 5 p.m. 

'87 DODGE DAKOTA, V-8, 5-spd„ 
AM/FM, AC, excellent condition, 
$7,500. Dillon, 877-6795. 

BIANCHI BROADWAY ROAD BIKE, 
12-spd., many extras, $150; Nishiki 
10-spd., $75; both recently tuned 
up. Crego, 292-0266. 

'79 FORD LTD, 302 V-8, 4-dr., AT, AC, 
PS, AM/FM cassette, maintenance 
records, $1,100. Eaton, 299-7271. 

'82 DATSUN, needs transmission, 
asking $500. Rice, 842-9457 after 
5 p.m. 

'75 DODGE PICKUP, 1/2-ton, 318 V-8, 
3-spd., w/hitch, faithful, runs well, 
$900 OBO. Krumel, 281-4406. 

'73 OPEN-ROAD MOTORHOME, A- 
Model, 21 -ft., 350 Chev., 37K miles, 
all power, self-contained, garaged, 
awnings, special compartments, 
$6,950 OBO. R6, 298-0290. 

'88 DODGE DAKOTA, 2x4, 3.9L V-6, 
PS, PB, AM/FM tape, 5-spd„ 8-ft. 
box, $5,500. Eley, 255-2617. 

'81 YAMAHA 550 MAXIM MOTORCY¬ 
CLE, “Pocket Ftocket," burgundy, 8K 
miles, original owner, excellent con¬ 
dition, well cared for, $950. Bryan, 
271-2102. 

'82 HONDA ACCORD LX, 3-dr. hatch¬ 
back, w/louvers, AC, AM/FM cas¬ 
sette, brown, original owner, great 
condition, $2,200. Monaco, 768- 
6140 or 293-2754. 

'90 FORD MUSTANG GT 5.0, titanium 
gray, loaded, AT, 17K miles, extend¬ 
ed warranty, pristine condition. Ney, 
298-6329. 


'86 FORD BRONCO II XLT, 4x4, EFI, 
V-6, 5-spd., AC, PS, PW, PL, 
AM/FM cassette, $5,700. Seidel, 

298- 1791 

77 CHEV. NOVA, 100K miles, 6-cyl„ 
AC, rusty but trusty, $750 OBO. 
Weber, 268-1195. 

REAL ESTATE 

2- BDR. TOWNHOME, excellent con¬ 

dition, 1,350 sq. ft., 1-3/4 baths, 
2-car garage, 8-1/2% assumable 
non-qualifying loan, Indian School 
& Tramway, $91,500. Garcia, 
293-2810. 

1/4-ACRE LOT, custom area, NW 
Albuquerque, $30,000. Mazze, 

299- 4568. 

3- BDR. HOME, 1-3/4 baths, barroom, 

extra-large utility room, garage, 
pitched roof, 1,560 sq. ft Gabaldon, 
292-7340. 

3-BDR. HOME, 2 baths, excellent con¬ 
dition, new carpet, beautiful private 
backyard, 5 minutes from Base, 
$93,900. French, 294-3099. 

2- BDR. TOWNHOUSE, 1 bath, assum¬ 

able 8.5% loan, low down w/sec- 
ond, garage, laundry room, store¬ 
room, near Base, $63,000. Cooper, 
888-4150. 

3- BDR. HOUSE, w/pool, 1-3/4 baths, 

corner lot, pitched roof, assum¬ 
able FHA loan, $94,000. Copus, 
281-4483. 

3-BDR. MOSSMAN BRICK HOME, 
2,500 sq. ft, 1-3/4 baths, approx. .4 
acre, Comanche & Louisiana area, 
$134,000. Teta, 888-1551. 
PRIVATE HILLTOP LOT, East Moun¬ 
tains (Steeplechase), 2-1/4 acres, 
utilities on lot, water membership 
paid, borders national forest, 
$30,500. Zittel, 281-1023. 

3- BDR. HOME, 1-1/2 baths, approx. 

1,000 sq. ft., block storage shed, 
5009 Comanche NE, great starter 
home, $59,500. Baca, 299-4875. 

4- BDR. BRICK HOUSE, 3 baths, 2-sto- 

ry, 1,950 sq. ft, updated, 2-car insu¬ 
lated garage w/extra work space, 
$119,900. Neal, 292-8675. 

3-BDR. HOME, perfect for starter or 
rental, 1 bath, NE Heights, central 
location, $60,000. Lopez, 881-6785. 
3-BDR. CUSTOM HOME, near 
Base, 1 acre, bonus room, 2-1/2 
baths, indoor pool, $179,000. 
Cole, 294-7633. 


WANTED 

BRENTWOOD ROCKER in oak fin¬ 
ish for baby's room. Wormington, 
892-3928. 

ROOMMATE, to share 3-bdr. 1-3/4-bath 
house near Eubank & Constitution, 
$300/mo. Gabaldon, 292-7340. 

MOTOR for buffing & polishing single or 
double shaft, w/exhaust ports for 
dust collection attachment. Ro¬ 
driguez, 296-3277 after 5 p.m. 

PARENT/CHILD BACKPACKERS, to 
join father/sons team for easy 2- or 
3-day trips (sons are ages 7 & 9). 
Shirley, 821-0480. 

PAPERBACK BOOK, How to Win at 
Pac-Man, published around 1980. 
Duncan, 892-2304. 

AQUARIUM TANKS, will haul off, bro¬ 
ken glass OK or buy cheap. Finch, 
281-8141. 

BACKPACK FOR YOUTH (boy age 
11), for overnight camping. Dell, 
291-0274. 

COPY OF "BIG BAND BALLROOM 
BASH,” aired on Channel 5, to 
watch and return. Burke, 294-7548. 

MOTORIZED CEMENT MIXER, must 
be in good condition, 3- to 5-cu.-ft. 
capacity. Kureczko, 281-8206. 

GOOD USED FREE BASEBALL 
GLOVES for children in the Moriarty 
summer baseball program who 
need gloves. Marrs, 281-9889. 

SUMMER RENTAL HOUSE, 2-3-bdr. 
for professor and family in the Albu¬ 
querque area. Letton, 409-845-1534. 

MILLI-VANILLI CASSETTE TAPE, with 
songs: “Girl You Know It's True’ 
and “I'm Gonna Miss You,” in excel¬ 
lent condition, will pay $5. Martinez, 
877-4744. 






LAB NEWS ♦ April 3,1992 


Page Sixteen 


Coronado Club Activities 

Last Call for Membership Drive Specials 


NO TOMORROW — Today, April 3, is your 
last chance to take advantage of the Club’s mem¬ 
bership drive. If you sign up as a new member, 
you’ll get two months’ free membership or one 
free pool pass worth $25. If you’re a current mem¬ 
ber and bring in a new member who joins for a 
year, you’ll get two complimentary meals for 
Sunday champagne brunch. You have until 9 
tonight to sign on the dotted line. 

FAMILY NIGHT TONIGHT — Bring the kids 
out to the Club this evening, starting at 5 p.m., for 
a special buffet, entertainment, and kids’ bingo. 
For children 12 and under, there’s a com dog, fries, 
and drink special for 990. Adults will have their 
choice of sandwich, salad, and drink for $3.75. 
(The menu will have other choices, too.) Bingo 
starts at 6 p.m. — and some lucky kid will win a 
gift-filled Easter basket. Special guests, the Frown- 
busters, will offer balloons, games, and assorted 
fun and excitement. 


POOR BOYS NEXT WEEK — All right! 
The Isleta Poor Boys are coming back next Friday 
evening, April 10, and will be on stage from 7 to 
11 p.m. The menu includes 10 ounces of filet 
mignon for $12.95, golden fried shrimp for 
$11.95, or an all-you-can-eat buffet (with 
poached cod and baron of beef) for just $6.95, 
with service from 6 to 9. Make those reservations 
early (265-6791). 

EASTER BUNNY TIME! The children’s an¬ 
nual Easter egg hunt and party is coming up Sat¬ 
urday, April 11, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The Easter 
Bunny will visit with the kids and even have 
lunch with them (buffet line open from 11 to 1). 
The egg hunt starts at 10:30 a.m., and there will 
be prizes, games such as egg races and pin-the- 
tail-on-the-bunny, and cartoons to watch. Kids 
can decorate an egg at home and enter it in an 
egg-decorating contest. 


Fun & Games 

Sailboarding — The 1992 New Mexico Wind 
Association Sailboard Swap will be held Saturday, 
April 4, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. next to Ski Systems 
at Juan Tabo and Menaul. Sale item check-in is 
Friday afternoon, April 3. For information, call 
Bob Reule on 296-6006. 

Cort Lamed will teach an on-the-water clinic 
Saturday, April 11, at 11 a.m. at Morgan Lake 
(Farmington). A Navajo taco dinner follows the 
clinic. The NMWA Spring Regatta will be held at 
Morgan Lake on Sunday, April 12, at 9 a.m. Entry 
fee is $25. For information, call Larry Weirick 
(2514) on 281-1462. 

* * * 

Soccer — It’s registration time for Sandia 
Summer Soccer. The league is co-ed and is open 
to all Sandia employees, contractors, and adult de¬ 
pendents. Games will be played at the Van Buren 
Middle School field just outside the Gibson gate 
after work on weekdays from early June through 
August. For more information, call Rick Hurley 
(2345) on 299-8401. 


Events Calendar 


Events Calendar items are gathered from various 
sources. Readers should confirm times and dates of 
interest whenever possible. 

April J — Natural Selection Auction, Natural His¬ 
tory Museum Volunteers’ auction of goods and services 
to support specific Museum programs, music, refresh¬ 
ments; 6:30-9:30 p.m.. New Mexico Museum of Natu¬ 
ral History, 841-8837. 

April 3-4 — Victor Mendoza, Latin jazz artist, pre¬ 
sented by the New Mexico Jazz Workshop; 8 p.m.. 
Woodward Hall, 255-9798. 

April 3-5 — “What the Butler Saw,” by Joe Orton, 
directed by Paul Ford, an outrageous comedy presented 
by the UNM Department of Theatre and Dance; 8 p.m., 
Rodey Theatre, 277-4402. 

April 3-5 — “The King and I,” musical presented 
by the Albuquerque Civic Light Opera; 8:15 p.m. Fri.- 
Sat., 2:15 p.m. Sun.; Popejoy Hall, 345-6577. 

April 3-15 — Exhibit, “Played and Printed,” exhi¬ 
bition of lithographs and monoprints made at Tamarind 
Institute by art students from Albuquerque, Cibola, Rio 
Grande, and Valley high schools, represents students’ 
personal expressions after exploring social issues in se¬ 
lected art forms; 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Tues.-Sun., Albuquerque 
Museum, 243-7255. 

April 3-19 — Exhibit, “Then and Now: Pojoaque 
Pueblo in Perspective,” 38 historical photographs on 
loan from the Poeh Center at Pojoaque highlight the 
people and images of life at the pueblo during the last 
century; 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Sat., 
noon-4 p.m. Sun.; Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, 
277-4404. 

April 3-May 17 — Annual Art Graduate Student 
Exhibition, recent and experimental studio work by 
candidates for master’s and master of fine arts degrees 
from UNM’s Art and Art History Department (open¬ 
ing reception 6-8 p.m. March 27); 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Tues.- 
Fri., 5-9 p.m. Tues., 1-4 p.m. Sun.; UNM Art 
Museum, 277-4001. 

April 3-May 24 — Exhibit, “Natural Natives: New 
Mexico Wildflowers,” photographs by Betty and Roy 
Stradford; 9 a.m.-5 p.m.. East Gallery, New Mexico 
Museum of Natural History, 841-8837. 

April 3-Sept. 6 — Exhibit, “Dinosaurs, Penguins, 
and Whales: The Wildlife of Antarctica,” collection of 
45 oil paintings by California artist William Stout, ex¬ 
hibit includes fossils, videos, an iceberg scene, and a 
computer simulation about the ozone hole above 
Antarctica; 9 a.m.-5 p.m., New Mexico Museum of 
Natural History, 841-8837. 

April 4 — Super Saturday Concert in the Park, a 
celebration of Albuquerque Public School’s 100th an¬ 
niversary, with special guests the Green Chile Jam 
Band; 10 a.m.-l p.m., free (donations accepted). La 
Mesa Park (7500 Copper NE), 260-2038 or 262-1581. 

April 4 — Children’s Pillow Concert, Chamber Or¬ 
chestra of Albuquerque, designed especially for early 
elementary and pre-school children and their families, 
narrated by Ellen McCullough-Brabson, music from 
around the world, special guests Bayou Seco; 2 p.m., St 
John’s United Methodist Church (2626 Arizona NE), 
881-0844. 


April 4-5 — African Violet Show and Sale, spon¬ 
sored by the Albuquerque African Violet Club, includes 
information about growing African violets; 2-6 p.m. 
Sat., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Sun.; Albuquerque Garden Center 
(10120 Lomas NE), 296-6020. 

April 4-30 — “The Dance of Creation,” exhibit 
sponsored by the Institute of American Indian Art in 
Santa Fe; 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. (artist reception 1-5 p.m. 
April 5), art gallery. South Broadway Cultural Center, 
848-1320. 

April 5 — State Tomahawk and Knife Throwing 
Championships, New Mexico Mountain Men competi¬ 
tion; 9 a.m.-4 p.m., Albuquerque Museum, 243-7255. 

April 5-June 21 — “WFS 17,” Western Federation 
of Watercolor Societies exhibition, includes work of 94 
artists in a variety of styles; 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Tues.-Sun., 
Albuquerque Museum, 243-7255. 

April 5-June 30 — “Lola Alvarez Bravo: Portraits 
of Frida Kahlo,” study of Frida Kahlo by one of Mex¬ 
ico’s foremost photographers; 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Tues.-Sun., 
Albuquerque Museum, 243-7255. 

April 6 — Monday Lecture Series: oral historian 
Greg Yawakia talks about his work on the Zuni Pueblo 
history project; 10 a.m., Indian Pueblo Cultural Center, 
247^4907. 

April 8 — Hispanic-New Mexican Bake Sale, fresh 
pastries baked in the Maxwell Museum’s homo; 11 a.m.- 
3 p.m.. Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, 277-4404. 

April 8 — “Turquoise Trade in the Southwest,” 
turquoise wholesaler John Chaney talks about the role 
traders have played in the development and expansion 
of Southwestern crafts; 7:30 p.m., Maxwell Museum 
of Anthropology, 277-4404. 

April 8 — Enhancement Series Presentation: histo¬ 
rian John Baxter discusses his book “Las Cameradas: 
Sheep Trade in New Mexico. 1700-1860”; noon-1:30 p.m., 
Albuquerque Museum, 243-7255. 

April 10 — Christopher Hollyday, saxophone 
player, presented by the New Mexico Jazz Workshop; 
8 p.m.. KiMo Theatre, 255-9798. 


April 10-11 — Classical Concert: New Mexico 
Symphony Orchestra directed by Roger Melone per¬ 
forms Bach’s “St. Matthew Passion”; 8:15 p.m., 
Popejoy Hall, 842-8565. 

April 11 — Ozone Depletion Lecture, C. F. Keller 
(Director of the Institute of Geophysics and Planetary 
Physics at Los Alamos National Laboratory) and Robert 
Tapscott (Director of the Center for Global Environ¬ 
mental Technologies at UNM) discuss what’s happen¬ 
ing to the ozone layer and what can be done about the 
problem; 10 a.m.. New Mexico Museum of Natural 
History, 841-8837. 

April 11 — “Just for Fun,” New Mexico Gay 
Men’s Chorus, program includes madrigals, a Mozart 
overture arranged as a tour guide to Europe, three 
American songs arranged by Aaron Copland, pop music 
including Gershwin rhythm songs, and more; 8 p.m., 
First Unitarian Church (3701 Carlisle Blvd. NE), 
296-9215. 

April 11-12 — New Mexico Cactus and Succulent 
Society 1992 Spring Show and Sale; 1:30-4 p.m. Sat., 
10 a.m.-4 p.m. Sun.; Albuquerque Garden Center 
(10120 Lomas NE), 296-6020. 

April 11-12 — “The Ransom of Red Chief,” chil¬ 
dren’s musical based on the famous O. Henry classic; 
2 p.m., KiMo Theatre, 821-8055. 

April 12-May 31 — “WPA Art,” exhibition of paint¬ 
ings by Emil Bisttram, Gene Kloss, and Joseph Fleck, 
done for the Work Projects Administration; 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Tues.-Sun., Albuquerque Museum, 243-7255. 

April 14 — Explorations in World Music Series: 
“Troubadours of the Yucatan,” presented by Prof. Phil 
Bock (UNM Department of Anthropology); 7:30 p.m.. 
Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, 277-4404. 

April 15 — “Trading Posts and Transitions in 
Navajo Weavings,” trading post owner Bruce Burnham 
discusses the importance of trader-weaver relationships 
in the evolution of Navajo weaving styles resulting 
from traders’ market development efforts; 7:30 p.m.. 
Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, 277-4404. 


GETTING SET to board a 
chopper for an aerial tour of 
Coyote Canyon, the Solar 
Thermal Test Facility, and 
Areas 1, 3, and 5 is Do¬ 
minic Monetta (middle), 
DoD Deputy Director for 
Defense Research and En¬ 
gineering. Monetta, seen 
here with Executive VP for 
Programs Orval Jones (20, 
left) and VP for Systems 
Applications Gerry Yonas 
(9000), visited the Labs 
recently to learn about 
many of Sandia's research, 
development, and testing 
capabilities. 






