Historic collaboration pursues breakthroughs for 
21st-century microchip fabrication 

Sandia joins LLNL, LBNL, Intel, Motorola, and AMD in multimillion-dollar lithography partnership 


By Nancy Garcia 


For the three participating national labs, 
announcing an extreme ultraviolet lithography 
partnership was a celebration of doing what 
might once have seemed impossible: working 
together in a seamless fashion as a single entity 
to solve a major problem with leaders of a major 
industry. 

For our microelectronics partners, it signaled 
a commitment to ramp up development of 
promising research that may lead to another 
three decades of ever-improving, ever-cheaper 
computer chips. 

The commitment — $250 million in indus¬ 
try spending over three years — will bring $130 
million to Sandia, Lawrence Livermore, and 
Lawrence Berkeley national labs. An industrial 
consortium led by Intel Corp., Motorola Corp., 
and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. will spend an 
additional $120 million on materials, equip¬ 
ment, and personnel. 

"The strongest possible endorsement of the 
capabilities of the Department of Energy's 
national laboratories is that industry is relying on 


them to make breakthroughs," said Secretary of 
Energy Federico Pefia at the Sept. 11 news confer¬ 
ence announcing the partnership at the Tech 
Museum of Innovation in San Jose. "Their sci¬ 
ence and their work is the best in the world.” 

A major change for Sandia 

The labs will interface with the consortium 
as a single entity, a Virtual National Lab, bring¬ 
ing to bear multiple areas of technical expertise 
to create faster and more powerful microchips. 

"This historic agreement is a major change 
for Sandia, which Lawrence Livermore Associate 


Director for Lasers Mike Campbell and I are com¬ 
mitted to making work," said California Labora¬ 
tory VP Tom Hunter (8000). 

The breakthroughs include Sandia's novel 
source of extreme ultraviolet light to expose pat¬ 
terns on silicon wafers. Rather than use an expen¬ 
sive and bulky synchrotron to fabricate chips, 
Sandian Glenn Kubiak (8250) invented a way to 
turn a supersonic jet of xenon gas into a hot 
plasma that glows with extreme ultraviolet light. 

Intel co-founder and chairman emeritus 
Gordon Moore calls the invention "truly unusual 
(Continued on page 3) 



Sandia LabNews*^ 


Vol. 49, No. 19 


September 26, 1997 




Sandia 

National 

Laboratories 


Get information about benefits 
changes, new vendors at 
Sept. 29 Benefits Vendor Fair 

By Bill Murphy 


A smooth, seamless passing of the baton: That's what folks in Sandia’s 
Health and Work/Family Benefits Dept. 3343 are working for when the Labs 
makes the transition on Jan. 1 to new vendors to administer the Triple Option 
Plan, including the Prescription Drug Program, and Vision Care Plan. 

To help in that transition, New Mexico-area employees and retirees can get 
complete information about a wide range of benefits and meet with vendor 
representatives during a Benefits Vendor Fair Monday, Sept. 29. It will be at the 
Coronado Club 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (For details about the California-site vendor 
fair, see "California-site vendor fair set for Oct. 15" on page 6.) In addition to 
vendor representatives, the fair will feature information about child care, elder 
care, alternative transportation choices, and blood drives. 

New vendors coming on board 

The Triple Option Plan (TOP), one of the primary medical benefit options 
offered by Sandia (the other is Lovelace in New Mexico and Kaiser in Livermore), 
will be administered by the Mutual of Omaha Companies. Mutual, which main¬ 
tained an excellent track record as a former administrator of Sandia's pre-TOP 

(Continued on page 6) 

Congressional Expo in D.C. 
Sept. 30 to highlight future 
of intelligent machines 

By Chris Miller 

The potential of intelligent machines, not only as people helpers but as the 
product of a whole new multibillion-dollar industry, will be the focus of a daylong 
expo on Capitol Hill Sept. 30. Sponsored jointly by Sandia, DOE, and the Robot¬ 
ics and Intelligent Machines Cooperative Council (RIMCC), the Congressional 
Expo on Intelligent Machines is expected to attract the attention of Congress, 
industry, and Washington-area media. 

"This is a very important event for Sandia because it represents the country's 
recognition of Sandia's leadership in the area of robotics and intelligent 
machines," says Pat Eicker, Director of Intelligent Systems and Robotics Center 
9600. "No one bestowed this leadership position upon us; we got it through a lot 
of hard work." 

The Manufacturing Task Forces of the US House and Senate requested the 
Expo for informing Congress about the intelligent-machines industry and its 

(Continued on page 10) 



BETTER ETCHING — Pam Ward examines a glowing plasma created by an 
electric field passing through a nitrogen-oxygen gas. Video and electronic 
monitors (not shown) arranged and programmed by Pam, Michael Smith, 
and Joel Stevenson (all 1812) will save industry millions by ensuring peak 
plasma performance during microchip etching. A license-signing ceremony 
at Sandia on Sept. 18 created Peak Sensor Systems, a new Albuquerque 
company that will commercialize the technology. See story on page 2. 

(Photo by Randy Montoya) 



Southern black church leaders r 

request Labs' security help ^ 

80 Sandians offer their time, skills 7 
during Sept. 12 Day of Caring ' 


o Texas state lottery shows Labs 
0 employee the money — lots of it 

q New processes, technology to 
streamline job movement 












This & That 

John Shunny will be missed - Retired Lab News Editor John Shunny 
didn’t survive the massive stroke he suffered Sept. 4. John, 72, never 
emerged from the coma he entered after a cerebral hemorrhage struck him 
while he was en route to Tucson with his wife Paige, and he died Sept. 11. 
A memorial service was held for him last Friday in Albuquerque. Because 
John retired 15 years ago, most employees today didn’t know him, but he 
had many Sandia employee and retiree friends, 
and he set a direction for the Lab News when 
he became editor back in 1968 that is still 
being followed to a large extent today. 

When John became editor, social 
activities, community events, human-interest 
stories, and other light fare dominated the 
Lab News. Although John knew it was 
important to cover these items, he worked to 
persuade Sandia management that the paper 
should have some real meat in it - 
discussing our interesting technical 
projects and workplace issues that employees 
are truly concerned about. Gradually he was 
successful, and the tone of the paper 
changed to reflect his thinking. 

In the early 1970s John also started 
the first Sandia editor’s column, which he 
called "Afterthoughts,” poking a few sacred 
cows he thought needed poking, offering some serious food for thought, 
and exercising his well-developed sense of humor. It paved the way for 
Bruce Hawkinson’s (12640) similar “Antojitos” column that ran from 1982 
to 1989 and for "This and That," which I've written since 1989. It’s 
largely because John dared to begin speaking his mind in print years ago 
that we have considerable editorial freedom in the Lab News today. 
Company communicators who enjoy such freedom are rare even now. As John 
himself put it, “Reading the typical company newspaper is like going 
down in warm syrup for the third time.” 

John was only 57 years old when he retired from Sandia in 1982, 
and he may have been Sandia’s busiest retiree. He was active in many 
outdoor activities. For years he organized and helped run annual nine- 
day- or -so Colorado River rafting trips through the Grand Canyon, enjoyed 
by dozens of Sandians and their family members.-He was an avid skier, 
teaching classes and participating in the Sandia Peak Ski Patrol. 

I’ll remember John for many reasons, but mostly because he was 
one of the most caring people I’ve ever known, helping organize and 
operate charity drives benefiting underprivileged families and children 
and abandoned/mistreated animals. Ever since John retired. Lab News 
staffers looked forward to his usual Tuesday visits when he came to our 
office to restock the Sandia souvenir items (hats, mugs, T-shirts, 
etc.) that our office and several others sell for the “South 14 
Project.” All profits benefit charitable causes, primarily poor folks 
living in several rural villages south of Tijeras, N.H., near Highway 
14. John was one of the Sandians who started this project in 1967, and 
it was obviously one of his passions. He kept it going ever since, 
contributing thousands of hours toward it over the years. 

All of us here will miss John Shunny a great deal. The world 
will miss John Shunny. His kind is not easily replaced. Memorial 
contributions may be made to the Animal Humane Association or a 
charity of your choice. 

- Larry Perrine (845-8511, MS 0167, lgperri@sandia.gov) 



JOHN SHUNNY, 1925-1997 


Sandia business initiative 
helps spawn new 
Albuquerque company, 
Peak Sensor Systems 

A license-signing ceremony to create Peak 
Sensor Systems, a new Albuquerque company 
that potentially will employ 40 people within a 
year, was held Sept. 18 at Sandia's Microelec¬ 
tronics Development Laboratory. 

Peak Sensor Systems will begin operations 
in mid-October on Renard SE near the Albu¬ 
querque International Sunport. The company 
will produce a sophisticated computer program 
that works with a camera and peripheral equip¬ 
ment to help microchip fabrication companies 
better monitor the etching process and sharply 
reduce the number of errors. 

The technique (Lab News, Aug. 29) was 
developed by Sandia researchers Pam Ward 
(1812), Joel Stevenson, and Michael Smith (both 
1812), all of whom will take two-year entrepre¬ 
neurial leaves-of-absence to produce and market 
the product. 

"We hope to have a product on the market 
by July 1998," says Pam. "There were many 
people involved in the formation of this new 
company and we have high expectations for 
success." 

Strong potential for growth 

Although the company will begin with 
seven people, Pam says the business should 
expand rapidly and employ 30 to 40 production 
and marketing people within a year, with a con¬ 
tinuing strong potential for growth after that. 

This latest example of technology transfer 
was aided by one of Sandia's newest efforts at 
creating partnerships with the private sector — 
the Business Recruitment Initiative. Created this 
year, the initiative is meant to initiate and coor¬ 
dinate corporate-wide efforts to bring key, tar¬ 
geted people near Sandia to create and enhance 
strategic partnerships. 

The program works hand in hand with 
long-term efforts to create a research park near 
Sandia occupied by high-tech companies that 
can benefit from Sandia's proximity. 

"We want to use the initiative to marshal 
the resources and advice necessary to enable the 
creation of spin-off companies using Sandia 
technology," says Cesar Lombana of Technol¬ 
ogy Partnerships and Commercialization Center 
4200. 

"We are looking for new partnerships with 
new customers — new high-tech companies 
that will have a physical presence in the Albu¬ 
querque area." 

The signing ceremony included Mike 
McIntosh of Technology Management 
Advisors, LLC in Denver (which is providing 
initial funding for Peak Sensor Systems), and 
Jeff Bullington of AMMPEC (Advanced Materials 
Manufacturing Processes for Economic Com¬ 
petitiveness) in Albuquerque, which helped 
structure the licensing agreement. 

— Chris Miller 


Science News editor Ivars Peterson headlines 
Sandia/IEEE high-integrity software conference 


StHldia i_ a yj y clvs 

Sandia National Laboratories 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 
http://www.sandia.gov 

Albuquerque, New Mexico 87185-0165 

Livermore, California 94550-0969 

Tonopah, Nevada • Nevada Test Site • Amarillo, Texas 

Sandia National Laboratories is a multiprogram laboratory oper¬ 
ated by Sandia Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Lockheed 
Martin Corp. and a prime contractor to the US Dept, of Energy. 


Ken Frazier, Editor. 505/844-6210 

Barry Schrader, California site contact. 510/294-2447 

Lab News fax.505/844-0645 


Published Fortnightly on Fridays by 

Employee Communications Dept. 12640, MS 0165 

LOCKHEED MARTI */ 


Ivars Peterson, noted author and mathemat¬ 
ics and physics editor of Science News magazine, 
will deliver the keynote address at the High 
Integrity Software Conference in Albuquerque 
Oct. 15-16, sponsored by Sandia, the Institute of 
Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and the 
IEEE Computer Society. 

Peterson's topic, "Averting a State of Perpet¬ 
ual Glitch," will address themes related to safety, 
security, control, reliability, and robustness of 
software and its development. It will be presented 
at 9 a.m. Wednesday, Oct. 15, following a wel¬ 
come address by Heinz Schmitt, Sandia VP of 
Weapons Systems Div. 2000. The two-day confer¬ 
ence is being held at the Doubletree Hotel in 
downtown Albuquerque. 

Featured sessions address methods to aid 
human comprehension of complex systems, for¬ 
mal methods for software creation, software engi¬ 
neering processes, and software systems engineer¬ 
ing. Presenters include faculty members from the 


University of Houston, University of New Mexico, 
University of Minnesota, New Mexico State Uni¬ 
versity, West Virginia University, and Vanderbilt 
University. Federal agency participants include 
Sandia, the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology, the Department of Defense, and 
NASA Ames Research Center. Industry presenta¬ 
tions include representatives from Semantic 
Designs and the Software Engineering Institute. 

The conference concludes with a panel dis¬ 
cussion, "Strategic Directions: The Near- and 
Long-term View." The panel discussion is moti¬ 
vated by the ever-increasing use of software in 
high-consequence operations. Its goal is to seek a 
local consensus identifying the most pressing 
software engineering issues to receive near- and 
long-term attention. 

For more information about the High 
Integrity Software Conference, visit the conference 
Web site at http://www.sandia.gov/events/his97 
or contact Lorraine Baca (2615) at 845-9721. 






SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 3 



HISTORY MAKERS — Secretary of Energy Federico Pena, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Director Bruce 
Tarter, Intel co-founder Gordon Moore, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Director Charles Shank, and Sandia 
Executive VP )ohn Crawford view an advanced lithography projection system designed under an earlier cooperative 
research and development agreement by Rod Nissen and engineered by Dan Tichenor (both 8250). The hardware 
was on display at the news event in San Jose announcing the new multipartner agreement in extreme ultraviolet 
lithography, the largest investment ever by private industry in DOE technology. 


Sandia 


CaliforniaNews 


Microchips 

(Continued from page 1) 

[but] a lot to learn." Advanced light source develop¬ 
ment will be one of Sandia's responsibilities. 

In the lithography system, a mask pattern 
replicating a circuit is projected and reduced. 

EUV lithography (EUVL) uses reflective optics 
consisting of the most precise mirrors ever created, 
coated with multilayers of molybdenum and 
silicon, whose final roughness is controlled 
within the width of a few atoms. The mirrors’ 
reflectivity is about 70 percent, requiring a very 
sensitive resist (that records the image on the 
wafer) to permit short exposure times and effi¬ 
cient factory throughput. 

Sandia leads responsibility for developing 
new resists in organization 1800. Responsibility 
for making mask blanks resides at LLNL, where 
research will also be led on coatings and optics. 

Sixty Sandians participating 

Sandia is also leading the project's systems 
engineering. The lithography tool incorporates a 
frictionless, magnetically levitated stage, modi¬ 
fied by Sandia, for precision alignment between 
exposures. Design cycles will be shortened by 
using Sandia's pow¬ 
erful design, analy¬ 
sis, and visualization 
tools available over a 
secure intranet. 

These tools were 
originally developed 
to facilitate Sandia's 
mission to maintain 
the nuclear stock¬ 
pile. The Labs' EUVL 
effort involves up to 
60 staff members in 
organizations 8000, 2000, and 1800, with some 
optics development in 1300, says EUVL program 
manager Rick Stulen (8250). 

An equal number are participating at LLNL. 
There, VNL technical director Rick Freeman (who 
began collaborating with Sandia nearly a decade 
ago while working for AT&T) administers the 
funding. Research funding will be split so that 
Sandia and LLNL receive about 45 percent each, 
said Sandia Executive VP John Crawford. With 
about 10 percent of the VNL budget, Lawrence 
Berkeley National Laboratory will use its Advanced 
Light Source synchrotron to measure how the 
optics perform with the invisible wavelengths of 
light used for the lithography exposures. 

This largest investment ever by private 
industry in DOE technology helps keep DOE 
research at the cutting edge, Rick said. 

Growing from early, risky, and modest 
expenditures (see "Work goes back to 1984"on 
next page), the program has prospered for several 
reasons, Rick Stulen said. 

California location key 

"A key aspect is geography," he said. "This 
would not have happened, I believe, if there was 
not a California site. It comes down to face-to- 
face interactions, coupled with our proximity to 
Silicon Valley." Intel headquarters are close, and 
the industrial consortium currently occupies 
office space at Sandia. 

Also, the fortunes of the microelectronics 
industry are technologically driven, Intel's Moore 
pointed out. "In many ways, we're unique," he 


said. "Since our inception the cost of our prod¬ 
ucts have dropped as they have improved. The 
cost of a transistor has decreased something like 
10 million fold. No other industry has done this 
over this short a time." However, he added, 
"We're running out of tricks." 

Fundamental physics limits how much 
power can be packed onto a chip, which Moore 
calls a "micro acre" of silicon, adding value to 
this real estate. "When you get smaller, every¬ 
thing gets better simultaneously," he said; speed, 
reliability, and efficiency improve while unit 
costs drop. 

Line widths have been shrinking to 0.25 
micron in Intel's latest mobile Pentium proces¬ 
sors with MMX technology. The industry has 
wrested perhaps four more generations of micro- 
circuit miniaturization from optical lithography 
than once thought possible. 

In production by 2002? 

Imminently, Moore said, "we have to move 
to some other technologies using shorter wave¬ 
lengths. Standard optics don't work." To stay on 
its current curve, Moore said Intel would need to 


put advanced lithography into production by 
about 2002. 

Although no clear contender has arisen for 
this future chip production standard, EUVL is 
attractive as an extension of optical lithography 
that could be conveniently phased into fabrica¬ 
tion lines by replacing perhaps 10 to 15 percent 
of exposure bays at a time in phases, said Intel's 
Sandy Wilson, who is director of business pro¬ 
grams for the consortium. Intel, which makes 
more than 80 percent of the world's microchips, 
has 10 fabrication plants (including one in Rio 
Rancho, just west of Albuquerque), and six more 
under construction. 

"EUV allows us to retain the same paradigm 
of a factory that we've been used to working in 
for the last three decades," he said. Phasing in 
EUV would allow it to be used for the five or six 
critical layers of a 30-layer chip. 

John Carruthers, Intel's director of compo¬ 
nent research (who served on a DOE Basic Energy 
Sciences materials panel for the labs), is credited 
with championing further development of the 
EUV accomplishments made jointly by the labs 
in recent years. 

At a celebration acknowledging the rapid 
preparation of program offices for the consor¬ 
tium (which is known as the EUV Limited Liabil¬ 
ity Co., or EUV LLC) he said, "Without this pat¬ 
terning technique called EUVL, the whole 
semiconductor industry would really grind to a 
halt in about six or seven years. There really are 
no viable alternatives. This is really going to be 
the technology of choice." 

Move entire industry forward 

"This whole technology is enabling. This 
will move the whole semiconductor industry 
world wide, starting in about 2002 to 2003, and 
will carry us into about 2030 or 2035. We 
expect to get about 30 years of production out 
(Continued on next page) 


A world standard to ensure US global competitiveness 


The new CRADA aims to create an engi¬ 
neering test stand to be used by semiconduc¬ 
tor equipment manufacturers to develop engi¬ 
neering systems under contract with 
consortium companies. To participate, semi¬ 
conductor equipment manufacturers must 
substantially manufacture their systems in the 
US. (A full 75 percent of these suppliers are 
currently outside the US, 70 percent of those 
in Japan.) Consortium members have the right 
of first refusal for these systems, which could 
then be offered to other customers. 


All major US semiconductor manufactur¬ 
ers have been invited to join the consortium, 
and more members are expected. The consor¬ 
tium will gather royalties from the equipment 
suppliers to reimburse members' investment. 
The intent is to ensure US competitiveness and 
allow EUVL to become a world standard in a 
global industry. The DOE labs will retain rights 
to intellectual property outside the field of use 
of EUV lithography. Mass production with 
EUV is projected to begin in 2004, with the 
first products in 2007. 


"It comes down 
to face-to-face 
interactions, 
coupled with 
our proximity 
to Silicon 
Valley." 








SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 4 


Microchips 

(Continued from preceding page) 


of this." 

Added Rick Stulen, "It's targeting a very clear 
and crucial need for the microelectronics indus¬ 
try. Our experience in state-of-the-art engineer¬ 
ing clearly impressed the company. One spinback 
is maintaining our staff at the leading edge of 
engineering analysis. Our product-realization 
environment (a suite of software tools) now has 
its first hard deliverable deadlines for real prod¬ 
uct outside." 

The consortium is guiding parallel research, 
such as mask patterning, inspection, and repair, 
said Chuck Gwyn, the consortium general man¬ 
ager (who worked 26 years in microelectronics at 
Sandia). This approach should halve develop¬ 
ment time of prototype production tools to V/ 2 
years. 

Until the end of silicon 

Over the near term, after the current CRADA 
ends in March 2000, Rick Stulen said the labs 
might continue to develop the system for at least 
another three years. Incremental optical 
improvements should allow EUV lithography to 
eventually print features less than 0.05 microns 
wide. 

At some point, semiconductors begin behav¬ 
ing oddly as circuits shrink to a very fine scale. 
But Bill Brinkman, who was Rick Freeman's boss 
when AT&T worked on EUVL, has said this tech¬ 
nology could take semiconductor manufacture 
until the end of silicon, when some other novel 
invention will have to supersede. 

"That fact that it's an extendable technology 
was a key attraction for Intel," Rick Stulen said, 
adding that the investment also retains national 
labs' expertise. "With the reduction in Defense 
Programs support, these people would not be 
here today." 

Eventually, he added, the DOE labs will gain 
faster computers for simulations to ensure the 
safety and reliability of the stockpile in the 
absence of nuclear testing. 

DOE funded early, risky stage 

"We'll come out of this project with 
substantially more skill than we have today," 
John Crawford noted, calling the opportunity to 
work as a Virtual National Lab "a source of great 
expectation and pride." 

DOE funded the riskiest stage of EUV devel¬ 
opment. Although it was always expected that 


What notables said about the agreement 


"We've proven that we can build these chips 
at Sandia National Labs. Now we're going to 
work with the EUV consortium to develop 
mass production techniques to keep US tech¬ 
nology at the forefront of the world's semicon¬ 
ductor industry." 

— Secretary of Energy Federico Peba 

"I want to congratulate [Secretary of Energy 
Pefia] on the role that three of [his] laborato¬ 
ries are playing in the Virtual National Labora¬ 
tory ... I've been a very strong supporter of 
industrial partnerships involving the national 
laboratories that leverage scarce federal and 
private resources for national benefits." 

— Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M. 

"Today's announcement of the public-private 


partnership to develop advanced lithography 
technology is another example of the state's 
important role in the high-tech industry. We 
will continue to be on the forefront of new 
technologies that will ensure that California is 
a leader well into the 21st century." 

— California Gov. Pete Wilson 

"This is a huge win ... As I have been telling 
my colleagues in Congress, these kinds of 
public-private partnerships should be an 
example to the rest of the nation.... The 
American people have made huge investments 
in our national labs over the years and we can 
be proud of these new types of commercial 
applications that will keep America at the fore¬ 
front of the New Economy." 

— Rep. Ellen Tauscher (10th District), D-Calif. 


industry would eventually take over develop¬ 
ment costs, Rick Stulen said, government EUV 
funding was entirely cut in September 1996 
when Congress drastically reduced spending on 
DOE's Technology Transfer Initiative. He said the 
project demonstrates potential return on invest¬ 
ment from "a good program that was cut back 
too far." 

Preserving a national treasure 

Taxpayers benefit from ensuring continued 
US industrial leadership, speakers commented at 
the news conference. 

"The semiconductor industry should be a 
$300 billion industry at the millennium," said 
W. Jerry Sanders III, founder and chairman of 
Advanced Micro Devices. "We pay lots and 
lots of taxes. And we'll preserve a national 
treasure." 

Added Pefia, "This industry is one of the few 
very positive exporters that helps with our bal¬ 
ance of trade. We want to ensure it remains a 
leader." 

"We’re investing heavily now to ramp up 
the learning curve," the consortium's Wilson 
commented. 

"1 don't think there are any other show- 
stoppers that money and effort can't overcome," 
Walter Bauer added. "All the technical problems 
have good solutions, and it's the one technology 
that can lead to the end of silicon. It can extend 
down to 0.07 microns or beyond." 

Crowding several hundred million transis¬ 
tors onto a chip would be possible, Moore said, 


enabling memory chips that might conceivably 
store as much as a terabit. Although he insists he 
has a poor track record of predicting impacts, he 
said gains might include helping computers rec¬ 
ognize speech in context so they can hold intelli¬ 
gent conversations and translate languages, as 
well as forgoing the need for a keyboard. 

"The partnership is significant for the future 
of important industries in this country, which 
employ more than 
twice the number of 
workers than the auto 
and steel industries 
combined," Tom 
said, "and because 
microelectronics is an 
enabler of the infor¬ 
mation age. The 
entire three-year-pro- 
gram funding repre- 


"It takes think¬ 
ing small to 
dream big — 
that's what 
we're doing 
today." 

sents more than the 
nation's peak spending in the TTI program [DOE's 
Technology Transfer Initiative] in one year, which 
was $212 million in 1995." 

By helping power the information age, Pefia 
said, the labs can further their missions in national 
security, energy, and environment with applica¬ 
tions in micromachining, advanced sensors, preci¬ 
sion measurement, and supercomputing. 

Recalling that Moore had once urged future 
microelectronics developers to "think smaller," 
and congratulating the technical teams for a job 
well done, Pefia added, "I would encourage each 
of us to 'think small.' It takes thinking small to 
dream big — that's what we're doing today." 



OVERVIEW — California Laboratory VP Tom Hunter addresses Secretary of Energy Federico Pefia (seated in 
foreground) at Sandia's Integrated Manufacturing Technology Laboratory. Listening are Sandia Executive VP John 
Crawford (on far side of table at left) and Mike Campbell, Associate Director of Lasers at Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory, right. The session was part of the event announcing the new industry/national labs 
partnership in extreme ultraviolet lithography. 


Work goes back to 1984 

The first laser plasma source was built 
at Sandia in 1984 under California VP Dick 
Claassen, who began an unclassified basic 
materials research program (with funding 
from the Strategic Defense Initiative) in 
parallel with Lawrence Livermore's efforts 
in X-ray laser research. The synchrotron 
nearby at the Stanford Linear Accelerator 
Center served as a resource. 

AT&T had been conducting its 
research in this area by using a synchro¬ 
tron at Brookhaven. Freeman, Rick Stulen, 
and Walter Bauer (8302) were pulled 
together by then-Sandia VP Venky 
Narayanamurti, who had been at Bell Labs. 
AT&T first demonstrated EUV lithography 
in 1989. The same year, Sandia and AT&T 
joined with LLNL and NIST to work on 
multilayers to reflect EUV light. The fol¬ 
lowing year, Sandia began collaborating 
with AT&T on EUVL. By 1991, Sandia had 
produced the first EUV images using the 
laser plasma light source. 

Following negotiations in 1991-1992 
(before DOE's Technology Transfer Initia¬ 
tive was formulated), Sandia entered a 
cooperative research and development 
agreement with AT&T, spending abut $3 
million of its own money (AT&T con¬ 
tributed an equal amount in kind). 







Page 5 


_ SANDIA LAB NEWS * September 26, 1997 » 

Black church leaden solicit Sandia's help in protecting people 
and property from anon, vandalism, violence 


By John German _ 

Practicality. Affordability. Two things schools 
and churches ought to consider when they buy a 
security system intended to protect people and 
property from arson, vandalism, and other 
crimes, according to Mary Green (5861). 

Mary returned recently from a conference of 
600 black ministers and church leaders in South 
Carolina where she preached the principles of 
practicality and affordability to an audience 
concerned about the recent spate of racially 
motivated burnings and other hate crimes against 
black churches in eight Southern states since 
January 1995. 

The Congress of National Black Churches' 
(CNBC) Arson Prevention Task Force invited 
Mary and colleague Basil Steele (5804) to CNBC's 
Aug. 5-6 annual con¬ 
ference following 
some nationwide 
publicity last spring 
about Sandia's work 
helping New Mexico 
schools design prac¬ 
tical security systems. 

Although Basil 
couldn't go, Mary 
participated in a two- 
day workshop for 
South Carolina 
church leaders focus¬ 
ing on common- 
sense approaches to 
facility security. 

"The type of 
security systems we 
are recommending 
are not really cutting- 
edge technology, but 
they can seem complicated to church leaders," 
she says. "Typically they end up buying whatever 
system a vendor recommends, and that's often 
not the most practical or inexpensive solution." 

Cost and avoidance 

"I tried to share some common-sense 
approaches that will help them make the right 
decisions and avoid overkill, which most 
churches don't have the money for," Mary says. 

Mary's advice is intended primarily to help 
church leaders sort through some of the technol¬ 
ogy-related decisions they encounter in choosing 
a modern security system — what systems work 
in what situations, where to put cameras and heat 
and motion sensors, which entryways to monitor, 
and (most critical) how much money they need 
to spend. 

"You probably don't need a $30,000 police- 
dispatch alarm system for a rural church that 
would take 30 minutes for the police to get to 
anyway," she says. "And you don't want to put 
motion sensors near a bulletin board where chil¬ 
dren's drawings are posted. Every time there's a 
draft, the papers blow around and set off the 
alarm." 

And false alarms can annoy local police, who 
may not respond as quickly the next time your 
alarm goes off. 

The principles Mary advocates not only pre¬ 
serve funds when a church buys a new security 
system, they also can help avoid expenses associ¬ 
ated with vandalism. 

Church leaders often aren't thinking about 
crime when they build a new church or design its 
grounds, she says. That can result in vandalism 
that is preventable if they insist that builders "do 
things smart" from the beginning, she says. 

For instance, many churches have large 
stained glass windows facing the street, which 
may make a church more attractive to 
passers-by but, in many neighborhoods, invites 
vandals to throw rocks or shoot them out. 
Replacing a big ornamental window can be 
costly. If stained glass windows are used, she 
recommends they be positioned away from the 
street where they are still available for enjoy¬ 
ment by the congregation but are not as easily 


damaged by vandals. 

Mary also presented some of the principles of 
"Crime Prevention through Environmental 
Design" that have arisen from community 
policing efforts nationwide. Bushes near windows, 
security cameras vulnerable to theft, and fence 
lines that encourage graffiti "artists" are exam¬ 
ples of common mistakes that can drain church 
coffers, she says. 

Burnings and bombings 

But solving the problems of black churches 
that have in the past been targets of more serious 
crimes — arson, violence against a congregation 
member, even bombing attacks — may require a 
more resolved approach, Mary says. 

"You have to make people's safety a priority," 
she says. "Again, it's important to plan for the 
worst, and to work with local law enforcement" 

For a church that has been bombed or that 
receives bomb threats, for instance, it's dangerous 
to have a nursery or day care near a street or park¬ 
ing lot. When rebuilding following an arson, use 
flame-retardant building materials, she says. 

"And if it's a target once a month, you might 
look at an aqueous foam system to put out the 
fire," she says. 

She says Sandia's expertise in this area comes 
from years of serving as the lead lab in protecting 
DOE facilities and nuclear weapons in the US and 
abroad. 

"We understand the principles of security 
and we've worked with the equipment," she says. 
"It seems like common sense, but it's more than 
that. We know what works, and that is valuable 
to school and church officials who can't afford to 
make mistakes." 

Although Mary's participation in the work¬ 
shop was informal, she says CNBC may decide to 
provide future funding that will allow Sandia to 
help on a more formal basis. 


Nine groups, 10 individuals honored 

AISES was one of nine groups honored in the 
award's second year. Ten individuals were also rec¬ 
ognized for their mentoring efforts. The award, 
funded and administered through the National 
Science Foundation, recognizes outstanding work 
to increase the participation of underrepresented 
groups in science, math, and engineering through 
all levels of education. 

"I was very honored by the award and I'm 
proud of my work with AISES," says Sandra. "It will 


As the safety of America's school children 
has become a concern in recent years, Mary and 
colleagues have consulted teachers and school 
officials about common-sense security approaches 
as well. 

Mary has visited with school officials in 
Hobbs, Silver City, and Las Vegas, N.M., and 
helped design a security regimen for Belen High 
School that has resulted in fewer acts of on-cam¬ 
pus violence and vandalism (Lab News, March 14, 
1997). 

"Schools and churches are in the same boat," 
she says. "They don't have a lot of money, and 
they're often easy targets for vandalism and theft." 

Dept. 5861 now is compiling a common- 
sense "how to" set of security manuals for 
schools, scheduled for distribution next summer. 
The project is funded by the National Institute of 
Justice. 

"What I hear so often from schools is: 'We've 
lost a VCR, so we're going to spend $10,000 on a 
security system," she says. "But that doesn't really 
make sense from a fiscal standpoint." 

She encourages teachers and school officials 
to deface equipment with paint or indelible mark¬ 
ers, or to affix microdots (tiny pieces of microfilm 
that contain information about the owner) to 
equipment that is easily resaleable. That helps get 
the equipment returned to the school if a thief is 
caught. 

"The best step schools can take is to make it a 
lot of work for someone to sell a stolen piece of 
equipment," she says. 

A simple alarm system can help notify police 
or school officials of an off-hours break-in as well. 
"A few kids on a weekend could do hundreds of 
thousands of dollars worth of damage," she says. 

"For both schools and churches, deterrence is 
the name of the game," she adds. "You’ve got to 
convince your adversary that this isn't a good 
target." 


be difficult for me when my AISES term ends this 
November." 

In 1994, the Clinton Administration's science 
policy blueprint, Science in the National Interest, 
stated the goals of producing the best scientists 
and engineers for the 21st century and raising 
the science and math literacy of all Americans. 
The mentoring awards are one result of that 
report. 

Presenting the awards were Kerri-Ann Jones, 
Associate Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy, and Neal Lane, Director of the 
National Science Foundation. 

— Bill Murphy 


"I tried to share 
some common- 
sense approaches 
that will help 
[church leaders] 
make the right 
decisions and 
avoid overkill, 
which most 
churches don't 
have the money 
for." 


White House/NSF award honon Sandian 
Sandra Begay-Campbell for mentoring efforts 

Sandia engineer 
Sandra Begay-Camp¬ 
bell (4512), chair¬ 
man of the board of 
the American Indian 
Science and Engi¬ 
neering Society 
(AISES), this month 
accepted the 1997 
Presidential Award 
for Excellence in Sci¬ 
ence, Mathematics, 
and Engineering 
Mentoring. 

Sandra and AISES 
Executive Director 
Norbert Hill during 
ceremonies at the 
White House Execu¬ 
tive Office Building 
accepted the award 
on behalf of their 
organization. The 
award included a 
commemorative 
plaque signed by 
President Bill Clinton 

and a grant of $10,000 to advance the group's 
mentoring efforts. 



Y 


MENTORS — Sandra Begay-Campbell (4512), second from left, and Norbert Hill, 
right, accept the 1997 Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, 
and Engineering Mentoring on behalf of AISES, the American Indian Science and 
Engineering Society, of which Sandra is 1997 chairman of the board. Presenting the 
award are Neal Lane, Director of the National Science Foundation, and Kerri-Ann 
jones. Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. 




SANDLA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 6 


Mail-order program 

(For maintenance 
prescription drugs) 

Eckerd Health Services 

retail network pharmacies 

Non-network 

retail pharmacies 

• $9 copayment for generic pre¬ 
scription drugs 

• $20 copayment for formulary 
brand-name prescription drugs 

• $26 copayment for nonformu¬ 
lary brand-name prescription 
drugs 

• Maximum 90-day supply 

• $5 copayment for generic pre¬ 
scription drugs 

• $12 copayment for formulary 
brand-name prescription drugs 

• $15 copayment for nonformu¬ 
lary brand-name prescription 
drugs 

• Maximum 34-day supply 

• 50 percent reimbursement 

• Maximum 34-day supply 

• File claims with Eckerd Health 
Services 

JEftX 



Vendor fair 

(Continued from page 1) 

medical plan, replaces The Prudential, which 
has decided to leave the New Mexico market. 

The contract to administer the Prescription 
Drug Program for TOP participants, currently 
managed by Caremark Inc., has been awarded to 
Eckerd Health Services, a subsidiary of JC Penney. 
Eckerd Health Services, with a long history of 
mail-order as well as retail-store prescription expe¬ 
rience, has a retail pharmacy network of some 
45,(XX) stores nationwide, compared to approxi¬ 
mately 8,000 in the Caremark network. 

The Vision Care Plan, now administered by 
Mutual of Omaha, will be managed by Cole 
Managed Vision. In response to participant con¬ 
cerns, the Vision Care Plan benefit has been 
expanded. In addition to the scheduled benefit 
(i.e., a scheduled reimbursement for covered 
vision services and materials), the plan that takes 
effect Jan. 1 will also include a "member provider 
network" option. 

Triple Option Plan 

The Triple Option Plan combines aspects of 
managed care and traditional medical insurance, 
resulting in a health benefit that might be charac¬ 
terized as "managed choice." 

According to TOP Planner Max Martinez 
(3343), the basic TOP benefit package will remain 
essentially unchanged under Mutual's adminis¬ 
tration. Monthly premiums and copayments will 
remain the same as current rates. The list of Pri¬ 
mary Care Physicians (PCP) in the Mutual 
provider network will match up very closely — 
better than 80 percent — with The Pmdential 
PCP list. Max cautions, though, that Sandians 
should attend the vendor fair to see if their PCPs 
are on Mutual's draft list. If not, new PCPs will 
need to be selected. 

Sandians will be required to notify Mutual of 
their preferred PCP(s) — even if they are retaining 
the same one — during the open enrollment 
period, which is scheduled for Oct. 20-Nov. 9. 

"Mutual of Omaha is extremely pleased to be 
working with Sandia National Labs again, admin¬ 
istering the triple option point-of-service plan," 
says Tim McGill, Senior VP, Group Marketing, 
Mutual of Omaha Companies. "We've had a great 
relationship with Sandia and its employees in the 
past and look forward to providing them with 
quality products and services moving into the 
future." 

Max says he is confident Sandians can expect 
excellent customer service from Mutual. 

"Many of the people who will work on this 
account are people who worked with us before, so 
they understand the Sandia culture," Max says. 
"They understand that we are not your normal, 
everyday company and this is not your normal, 
everyday account. 

"One of the things Mutual finds attractive 
about this account is that they see the Triple 
Option Plan as their flagship product of the 
future, so they are also stakeholders in making 
the TOP at Sandia a real success." 


California-site vendor 
fair set for Oct. IS 

The California-site Benefits Vendor 
Fair is scheduled for Wednesday, Oct. 15, 

9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Bldg. 905 mezzanine. 

The fair will feature representatives 
from Cole Managed Vision (Vision Care 
Plan), Eckerd Health Services (Prescription 
Drug Program), Mutual of Omaha (Triple 
Option Plan), Kaiser (HMO), and Met Life 
(Dental Plan.) The fair will also feature a 
representative from Fidelity to discuss 
401(k)-related issues. 

Kaiser plans to have an allergist at the 
fair to discuss allergies and possible treat¬ 
ments. Cole will provide eyeglass cleaning 
and vision acuity testing. Kaiser and 
Mutual are providing gifts for drawings. 

Refreshments will be served. 


Another plus for Mutual: Max says it places 
great emphasis on its quality processes, and it 
plans Sandia representation on its quality assess¬ 
ment teams. Mutual is certified by the National 
Committee of Quality Assurance, a group that 
accredits facilities and quality processes in the 
medical industry. 

Although the transition to Mutual should be 
essentially "seamless," Max says, there is one 
major change. The Mental Health/Substance 
Abuse program that has been administered by 
Value Behavioral Health has been folded into the 
Mutual contract. And the name of the benefit will 
change — it will now be called a "behavioral 
health" benefit instead of a mental health/ 
substance abuse benefit. 

After the open enrollment period, Mutual 
will send out an information kit including identi¬ 
fication cards, a provider directory, and general 
information about administration of the benefit. 

Prescription Drug Program 

As with the TOP, there will be only minor 
changes to the benefits in the Prescription Drug 
Program (PDP), which will be administered by 
Eckerd Health Services starting Jan. 1. 

Copayments for prescription purchases at 
any of Eckerd Health Services' 45,000 retail net¬ 
work pharmacies — including virtually all phar¬ 
macies that are part of the 8,000-store Caremark 
network — will remain unchanged from current 
rates: $5 copayment for generic prescription 
drugs, $12 copayment for formulary brand-name 
prescription drugs, $15 copayment for nonformu- 
lary brand-name prescription drugs (all payments 
represent a maximum 34-day supply). 

In the mail-order program, rates will increase 
slightly. The new rates, for a maximum 90-day 
supply, are $9 copayment for generic drugs, $20 
copayment for formulary drugs, and $26 copay¬ 
ment for nonformulary brand-name drugs. 

(Because Eckerd has its own list of formulary drugs, 
some medications currently on Caremark's formu¬ 
lary list may not be included. As a result, some San¬ 
dians' prescriptions may become nonformulary, 
with a corresponding increase in copayment. 

Other Sandians may find their previously non¬ 
formulary prescriptions are included on Eckerd's 
formulary list. Their copayments will go down.) 

For prescriptions filled at non-network retail 
pharmacies, the benefit remains unchanged: a 50 
percent reimbursement of purchase price for a 34- 
day supply, with claims filed through Eckerd 
Health Services. 

PDP Planner Deborah Jensen says Eckerd will 
bring a special focus on customer service to its 
management of the program. 

"Eckerd is a subsidiary of JC Penney," says 
Deborah. "We feel that with the connection toJC 
Penney and the retailing industry, Eckerd really 
understands what customer service is all about." 

What's new in customer service? Deborah 
elaborates: Physicians can fax or call in a new pre¬ 
scription to the mail-order program. That's new. 
Under Caremark, those prescriptions had to be 
mailed in. Also, plan participants can call or fax 
refill prescriptions. In other words, Deborah says, 


Retiree deaths 

William Ulrich (71).5114.Aug. 3 

Albert Catuna (88).1832.Aug. 16 

Manuel Martinez (77).1473.Aug. 16 

Robert Boyles (74).3432.Aug. 26 

Alfredo Trujillo (75).3425.Aug. 26 

Charles Garcia (74).3421.Aug. 27 

Walter Henderson (74).8262.Aug. 29 


Eckerd is significantly expanding the way partici¬ 
pants can send in prescriptions to the mail-order 
program. 

Eckerd has a patient call center. Here's how 
that works: If Eckerd gets a prescription and hap¬ 
pens to be out of stock on that drug, it'll call the 
participant right away about the status of the pre¬ 
scription. If the prescription ends up in-house for 
four days or longer, Eckerd calls. Such contact has 
not happened in the past. 

"We feel these are real enhancements," 
Deborah says. "If it’s delayed, you'll get a phone 
call telling you why. Eckerd involves the patient 
in the process." 

Also, with Eckerd's formal "seamless" transi¬ 
tion process, refill mail-order prescriptions on file 
with Caremark will be filled by Eckerd with little 
or no hassle for participants, Deborah says. As part 
of the transition, she explains, Caremark is provid¬ 
ing Eckerd a data tape of active files and prescrip¬ 
tions. Eckerd will merge those data into their own 
system just as if they'd been there all along. For 
the participant: Business as usual. Just use the 
Caremark prescription refill number, Deborah 
says; Eckerd will take care of everything else. 

All Sandians and retirees participating in the 
Triple Option Plan are automatically enrolled in 
the PDP, says Deborah. In early December, Eckerd 
will send out an implementation kit to include 
identification cards, a list of pharmacies, and 
other information. 

Vision Care Plan 

Under the new Vision Care Plan vendor, Cole 
Managed Vision, Sandians have a new option for 
vision care services. In addition to the current 
scheduled benefit option — make a purchase, file 
a claim, and receive a reimbursement — the new 
Vision Care Plan features a managed-care-type 
option: Go into any one of Cole's network facili¬ 
ties nationwide and make a copayment for lenses, 
frames, contact lenses, or eye exams. No paper¬ 
work, no claims to file, minimal red tape. 

Cole, by the way, has an extensive network of 
providers. It owns Pearle Vision Centers and the 
optical shops in JC Penney, Montgomery Ward, 
and Sears stores nationwide. Wherever there are 
gaps in its nationwide system, says Vision Care 
Plan Planner Karen Roybal (3343), Cole contracts 
with local optometrists and ophthalmologists to 
make the network as comprehensive and accessi¬ 
ble as possible. 

The new VCP, Karen says, seeks a balance: a 
move toward managed care — a trend through¬ 
out the private sector benefits field — while still 
retaining the kind of benefit Sandians have 
become familiar with over the years. 

If there has been a perceived shortcoming in 
the vision benefit, Karen says, it has been that for 
most purposes, the benefit can be used only once 
every two years for a given service: one (partially) 
reimbursable eye exam every two years, one new 
set of lenses or contact lenses, one new set of eye¬ 
glass frames. 

Although the frequency of the benefit has 
not changed, Karen says the new plan addresses 
the concern to some extent. Sandians — includ¬ 
ing retirees, who are not eligible for the Vision 
Care Plan itself — can participate in Cole's dis¬ 
count program. Some of the discounts are minor: 
$5 off a regular eye exam. But some are pretty 
substantial: Savings of 40 percent, 50 percent, or 
more on frames, lenses, and various lens options 
such as tinting, antiscratch treatment, and other 
eyeglass enhancements. 

Cole representatives will be at the vendor fair 
to discuss the new provider network option and 
the discount program. 

















SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 7 



r | —— - ™ 


IK )RSI 


Day of Caring — Sept. 12, 1997 




READING IS FUN —Valerie Portillo (10509) shared her time 
with two children at Martineztown House of Neighborly 
Services reading books on Day of Caring. Sandia's Employee 
Contribution Plan 1997 campaign for United Way kicks off 
with the return of last year's Reading is Fun Book Fair the 
week of Oct. 20. Books will be discounted 40 to 70 percent 
off publishers' prices. Look for announcements of locations 
and times in future issues of the Weekly Bulletin and Lab 
News. 


Lab News Photos by Randy Montoya 


A WONDERFUL DAY IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD — Redd Eakin (12670), Sandia Volunteer Program 
Coordinator, shares a hug with Fidelia Montoya at La Amistad Senior Center. 



ARTS AND CRAFTS — In photo above, Gina Pineau 
(6100) shares her crafting skills with a senior citizen 
named Aurora at Martineztown House of Neighborly 
Services' La Amistad Senior Center. More than a thou¬ 
sand volunteers from throughout Albuquerque turned 
out Sept. 12 to participate in the annual United Way of 
Central New Mexico's Day of Caring. Some 80 Sandia 
volunteers offered their time and skills in painting, 
groundskeeping, landscaping, and arts and crafts at Alta 
Mira Specialized Family Services for people with severe 
disabilities, Hogares' Casa Serena, Transitional Living, 
and Martineztown House of Neighborly Services. In 
photo at left, Sandia volunteers Yvonne Batchelor (9784, 
left) and Patrice Sanchez (2000) help spruce up the 
interior of Transitional Living, apartments for people with 
disabilities. 


—— J 

it 

q 

1 

c 

is*- | 

li 

IBM 

















SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26,1997 • Page 8 


Sandian isn't sure what's in store after this week, 
when the Texas lottery 'shows her the money' 


By John German 

It's the long shot we all dream about. One 
day you're you, and the next day you're you with 
a million bucks. 

What would you do if you won the lottery? 
Buy a big house? Pay off your debts? Call in sick 
for the rest of your life? Serenade your boss with 
the lyrics from Johnny Paycheck's "Take This Job 
and Shove It"? 

Last week, a Sandia employee and her husband 
began living their lottery-winner's dream on 
behalf of the hopeful (and envious) rest of us 
when they flew to Austin, Texas, to collect their 
share of the winnings from a $10 million Texas 
State Lottery ticket. 

The employee's name is Anita, an accounting 
clerk in Payable Accounting Services Dept. 10503. 
(Although many Sandians probably already know 
her identity, Anita requested that her last name 
not be used in the Lab News because of its many 
non-Sandia readers. A lawyer has advised Anita 
and her husband to get an unlisted phone num¬ 
ber and post office box as well, to protect them 
from the hundreds of "business people" and char¬ 
ities that are known to hound lottery winners.) 

The rest of the story 

About four years ago Anita, her husband Ray, 
her husband's brother Hubba (who lives in 
Mesquite, Texas), and Hubba's girlfriend began 
buying Texas State Lottery and New Mexico Power- 
ball tickets twice a week regularly. Hubba would 
buy a few Texas "quick picks" (random number 
selections) prior to each drawing. Ray bought the 
Powerball tickets. They agreed that Hubba, his 
girlfriend, and the Anita-and-Ray pair would each 
get one-third if they ever won anything. 

On Thursday, Sept. 4, Anita and Ray arrived 
home after a day's work (Ray works at General 
Electric's aircraft engine plant in Albuquerque), 


where a message was 
waiting for them on 
their answering 
machine. It was 
Hubba who, in a very 
serious voice, said he 
needed to talk to 
them. 

"We thought 
someone had died," 

Anita says. 

After several 
tries, Ray finally got 
through. It took Hubba several tries to convince 
the two that they had won one-third of one-half 
of the $20 million jackpot. 

"We knew it was true when he finally said 
'May God strike me dead if I'm lying," she says. 
"We didn't sleep for four days after that." 

Hubba bought the ticket at a convenience 
store in Mesquite. The winning numbers: 8-13- 
18-29-39-46. The owner of a second winning 
ticket, purchased in Weatherford, Texas, hasn't 
yet stepped forward. 

$10 million ain't $10 million 

Anita and Ray immediately flew to Mesquite, 
where they and Hubba met with a lawyer and a 
financial advisor. They formed a limited partner¬ 
ship, which has certain tax and property rights 
benefits. 

They also found out that $10 million ain't 
really $10 million. 

In some state lotteries, including Texas, you are 
asked to choose either "cash" or "annuity" when 
you buy a lottery ticket. If you choose annuity 
and you win, you get paid the full publicized 
amount over a 20-year period. In that case, the 
lottery commission takes what it has in the "kitty" 
(perhaps half of the jackpot amount), invests it, 
and pays you incrementally from the earnings. 


If you choose cash and you win, you get 
what's in the investment kitty, period. 

In Hubba's case, that was about $5 million. 
Split three ways that's about $1.7 million. Minus 
taxes, about $850,000 cash. Anita and Ray won't 
be rubbing elbows with Bill Gates anytime soon, 
but they are happy as clams anyway. 

"It doesn't seem real. It feels like someone's 
playing a joke on us," she says. "I guess it won't 
seem real until we have the money." 

The couple flew to Texas late last week for a 
press conference involving a red carpet and an 
oversized check. They were told it would then 
take two days to have the money wired into a 
bank account of their choice. 

Don't quit your day jobs, lawyer says 

What's in store for Anita and Ray? Will Anita 
serenade her boss? Will the 46-year-old retire 
early and spend her remaining days at the cou¬ 
ple's cabin near Chama? Will Ray and Hubba buy 
a diamond-studded bass boat, which they have 
joked about? 

Probably not, Anita says. They plan to invest 
the winnings as wisely as possible. Their lawyer 
and financial advisor have warned them not to 
quit their jobs until they find out how much reg¬ 
ular income can be generated from the windfall. 

So Anita still answers her office phone on the 
first ring, processes journal entries, and does 
ledger account analysis. She even told the lawyer 
that she had to get back to Albuquerque soon 
because her work was piling up. 

"He looked at me like I was crazy," she says. 

Her supervisor, Camille Gibson, says Anita 
called her to get a few days off when she found 
out she was a winner, but offered to come in and 
"review the payments" before she left anyway. 

"She's an enthusiastic person, she does great 
work," Camille says. "It's the same ol' Anita." 

"I always joked that if I won I'd throw my 
badge over the fence and wave good-bye," Anita 
adds. "But I plan to keep working at Sandia, at 
least for the near term," though she admits some 
mornings are more difficult than others. 

"My alarm will go off and I'll say to myself, 'I 
don't want to go in today. What are they going to 
do, fire me?' Then common sense returns and I 
get up and go to work like always," she says. 

She has a photocopy of the winning ticket 
thumbtacked to her cubicle wall. 

Anita swears she and Ray haven't purchased 
anything other than groceries since they found 
out about the winnings. They haven't even gone 
out for a celebration dinner. 

Travel, a Toyota, and 108 bagels 

The couple is planning a family trip to Hawaii 
this December. They hope to take Anita's 80-year- 
old mother along, who has always wanted to visit 
Hawaii. They also may make a few jaunts to other 
places they've wanted to see: Australia, the 
Caribbean aboard a cruiseliner, and several desti¬ 
nations in the US, she says. 

And Anita plans to buy herself a new car, 
probably a modest Toyota or Nissan rather than 
the ride she really wants: a Mitsubishi Eclipse, 
which she says she's too old to be seen driving 
around in. 

She'll probably take on that remodeling 
project she's been talking about as well. 

Other than that, not much has changed. "We 
have fewer worries these days," she says. 

They may pay off their mortgage early. It'll be 
easier to keep their two children in college. 

"And if we do it right, they'll have something 
when we die," she says. 

In the long term, Anita says, they'll probably 
at least think about retiring early. She might get 
involved in more volunteer work. 

But above all, she doesn't want to become a 
different person. "People say winning the lottery 
can be a blessing or a curse. I hope it's a blessing." 

The first day of work after Anita learned of 
her good fortune, split three ways, minus taxes, 
she brought in nine dozen bagels for her colleagues 
in Accounting, Finance, and Payroll. 



A MINUTEMAN II blasts through the evening twilight at Vandenberg Air Force Base (Calif.) |une 23 on its way 
to the Kwajalein Missile Range in the Pacific. It was the "first" in a series of 13 National Missile Defense 
Integrated Flight Test Program launches designed to help the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization develop a 
missile defense system capable of protecting the US against a limited missile attack. This test and the next are 
to evaluate sensors onboard interceptor-type missiles launched from Kwajalein. Sandia designed and built the 
experimental payload on the Minuteman — including a 300-pound reentry vehicle and eight lightweight 
decoy targets. During the test, the RV and decoy targets were deployed from the Minuteman in mid flight. As 
a sensor payload onboard a Kwajalein-launched interceptor-type missile flew by the target array, the sensors 
used differences in shape, aerodynamic behavior, and infrared signatures to distinguish between the decoy 
targets and real RV. The june 23 flight test was a makeup launch for a failed test on |an. 16, during which the 
Sandia payload was launched and deployed successfully but the interceptor sensor payload launch was 
scrubbed due to a power system failure (Lab News, Feb. 28). Eric Reece, Manager of Targets and Lethality 
Dept. 2417, says the june 23 makeup test was "successful in every sense of the word." Nine Sandia centers in 
four divisions are involved in the program. (Photo by Diana Helgesen, 9761) 





SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 • Page 9 


Revised business rules / better use of computer 
capabilities will facilitate internal job movement 


Beginning Oct. 1, Sandia staff and managers will use a new computer- 
based post-and-bid system for internal job movement. The reengineered 
internal movement processes take full advantage of the Labs' investment in 
networked computers and reflect significant process and business rule 
changes. The new processes represent the final phase of integrating all 
staffing acquisition — external hires, staff augmentation, and internal move¬ 
ment — and the realization of one-stop shopping. 

Computer capabilities make it possible to automate many of the internal 
movement functions and provide on-line access to information about 
staffing procedures, policies, points of contact, electronic forms, and in some 
cases electronic routing of forms. 

Here are some of the key changes: 

• Same-day job postings —Job vacancies will be posted on line at the 
JOBSS Internal Web site on the same day the approved Tactical Staffing Requi¬ 


sition form is received by the Staffing Dept. (The JOBSS site will be accessible 
beginning in October via the Human Resources home page, which in turn 
will have a permanent link, starting in October, on the Internal Web home 
page.) Job vacancies will no longer be posted in the Weekly Bulletin. 

• Electronic resume — All nonrepresented employees will be required to 
have an electronic resume completed (using Resume Builder accessible via the 
HR home page) to bid for job vacancies. 

• Fewer bidder-eligibility rules — Streamlined rules make it easier for 
employees to bid on job vacancy postings. 

• Expanded Bid Line hours — 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week bidding on 
job vacancies via the Job Vacancy Telephone Bid Line, 845-7958. 

The chart below provides more details about the internal movement 
process. — Bill Murphy 


Reengineered internal movement: What's new? 


Manager initiates 
staffing requisitions 



Employee bids on job 
(non-represented) 


Manager receives 
info about bidders 


Manager makes 
selection 


Personnel action 
approvals 


Directed transfers 


Simplified eligibility 


Staffing is requisition- 
based: 

In addition to external 
hiring and staff augmenta¬ 
tion, post-and-bid is now 
requisition based.* 

Web-accessible TSR form: 

Tactical Staffing Requisi¬ 
tion (TSR) form is electronic 
and accessible on the Web. 
The routing and approval 
process remains a paper 
process for the time being, 
but next year routing and 
approvals will be electronic. 
Job evaluation process: 

Eliminated for all IJS posi¬ 
tions. 

Posting job vacancies: 

Within 24 hours of 
receipt of the approved TSR, 
the vacancy is posted on the 
new JOBSS Web site and the 
telephone bid system. 

Value-added assignments: 

Matrix assignment must 
involve important work val¬ 
ued by both organizations. 

Up-front communication 
and documentation: 

It is suggested that both 
managers and the employee 
discuss skills, duties, and 
responsibilities prior to the 
assignment. Also suggested 
is a memo of record outlin¬ 
ing agreements about these 
issues. 

PMF & compensation 
reviews: 

It is suggested that the 
'matrixed to’ manager have 
input to the employee's PMF 
at beginning of review cycle 
and at mid- and year-end 
reviews; that the 'matrixed 
to’ manager be invited to 
participate in performance/ 
compensation group review 
discussions involving 
matrixed employees. 


rules: 

An employee who has 
been at Sandia for more 
than one year can bid on 
any job vacancy. 

Nomination letters: 

Eliminated 

Resume requirement: 

Before bidding on a 
non-represented job open¬ 
ing, employees must enter 
their resume in the web- 
based application Resume 
Builder. 

Job vacancy listing: 

Post-and-bid vacancies 
are posted on the new 
JOBSS Web site and the tele¬ 
phone bid line system. Bid¬ 
ders still use the telephone 
bid system to bid on job 
openings. Matrix opportu¬ 
nities are also described on 
the JOBSS site, but inter¬ 
ested employees contact the 
manager directly. 

Bidding period: 

New jobs are posted 
daily, with a minimum 
posting period of nine 
working days. 

Represented employees: 

Eligibility rules are spec¬ 
ified in respective con¬ 
tracts. While it is not 
required that represented 
employees enter their 
resumes in Resume Builder 
when bidding on a repre¬ 
sented job opening, doing 
so allows managers to view 
the represented bidder's 
resume and is therefore 
generally considered 
advantageous for bidders. 
Information about repre¬ 
sented job openings is 
found on the new JOBSS 
Web site and the telephone 
bid line. 


Electronic bidder infor¬ 
mation: 

Managers can access 
information about bidders 
on the new Sourcing and 
Selection Web site even 
while the posting is still 
open. 

Scope of bidder 
information: 

Bidder information 
includes a list of all bid¬ 
ders, those who met 
mandatory criteria and 
those who did not, num¬ 
ber of desired criteria met, 
job ladder and level, past 
performance data, occupa¬ 
tion, organization, base 
rate, and other employee 
information. Managers 
also see the resumes sub¬ 
mitted by bidders through 
Resume Builder. 

Electronic skills/word 
matching: 

Managers now receive a 
list of bidders sorted by 
those who met, and did 
not meet, the require¬ 
ments specified in the TSR. 
The list is based on 
skills/word matches 
between the TSR and the 
bidder's resume. 


Number of interviews: 

It is recommended that a 
manager interview a mini¬ 
mum of three bidders for 
each vacancy. 

Selection documentation: 

Two selection documents 
are completed and submit¬ 
ted by the selecting man¬ 
ager. The first is the new 
Web-based Selection Check¬ 
list form available on the 
Sourcing and Selection site. 
The second document can 
be either a justification 
memo, or an Employee 
Selection Matrix. 
Non-selection notification: 

Managers notify non- 
selected bidders by tele¬ 
phone or letter. Anon- 
selection letter template is 
available on the Web under 
Corporate Forms. 


Electronic routing & 
approvals: 

Most personnel actions 
are routed and approved 
electronically. Originators 
of electronic personnel 
actions can now track the 
status of the action and, if 
necessary, electronically 
cancel an in-process per¬ 
sonnel action. Earlier 
approvers are notified by 
e-mail if a later approver 
disapproves the action or if 
the originator cancels the 
action. 

Delegation of authority: 

A designated approver 
may electronically delegate 
authority to an “absence 
delegate." 

New policy on retroactives: 

Retroactive personnel 
actions are approved only 
in very rare cases such as a 
court order. 

Friday dates: 

Personnel actions for 
internal movement must 
be dated with a Friday date. 
"Plus 1 Manager" 
approval: 

About half of all per¬ 
sonnel action codes are 
approved by the manager 
who is one level above the 
affected employee. 

Fewer action codes: 

There are 23% fewer per¬ 
sonnel action codes, and 
many events that previ¬ 
ously required submission 
of a separate OCN are now 
handled automatically. 

Certifier function elimi¬ 
nated: 

There is at least one 
less approver for every per¬ 
sonnel action since the cer¬ 
tifier function has been 
eliminated. 


Redefined criteria: 

Directed transfers are 
used only when: (1) justified 
by business needs; (2) antici¬ 
pated reduction in funding 
and/or lack of work; (3) a 
need for unique skills 
unlikely to be found in the 
post-and-bid process; (4) the 
employee is part of a devel¬ 
opment program or rota¬ 
tional plan; or, (5) the trans¬ 
fer resolves a people issue. 

Does not circumvent post- 
and-bid 

Directed transfers shall 
not be used to circumvent 
the post-and-bid process. 
Documentation: 

Justification must be pro¬ 
vided using a Personnel 
Action Approval form in 
accordance with new guide¬ 
lines and must include an 
explanation as to why the 
position was not filled using 
the post-and-bid process. 

Directed transfer 
approvals: 

When the transfer is 
within a division, the action 
is approved by the next 
higher level of management 
in both the releasing and 
receiving organizations. 
When the transfer is across 
divisions, it must be 
approved by the next higher 
level of releasing and receiv¬ 
ing management and the HR 
director for the site. 

•The Staffing Sourcing 
and Selection Web site 
provides detailed guid¬ 
ance on the requisition 
process as well as a deci¬ 
sion tree for "make/buy" 
and “internal/external" 
sourcing decisions. 


Additional Information 

Beginning in October, the Sandia Internal Web 
home page will provide easy access to these Web sites: 

HR home page and associated links: 

Accessible October 1997 from the Sandia home page 
Resume Builder 

http://www.hris.sandia.gov/Project/resume/resumehtml 
JOBSS Web Site 

Accessible October 1997 from the HR home page 
Staffing: Sourcing and Selection Web Site 

Accessible October 1997 from the HR home page 
HR Procedures 

Call your HR Representative or Staffing Specialist 
Job Vacancy Telephone Bid Line: 845-7958 
Electronic Personnel Action Approvals: 844-8661 


H Take Note 

The Albuquerque-area National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Depen¬ 
dence (NCADD) is seeking individuals interested in serving on its volunteer 
board of directors. The board meets at 5:30 p.m. on the second Monday of each 
month. In addition, members may participate in two to six committee meet¬ 
ings a year. The NCADD provides information, referral, assessment, interven¬ 
tion, training, and other related services to approximately 10,000 people 
throughout New Mexico annually. For more information, call Jill Anne 

Yeagley, executive director, at 256-8300. 

* * * 

The 33rd annual All Faiths Receiving Home Auxiliary's Apple & Arts Festi¬ 
val celebrates fall on Saturday, Sept. 27,9 a.m. to 4 p.m., at the Youth Hall on 
the State Fairgrounds. This fall family event features a variety of arts and crafts, 
a chile lunch, and apples from Dixon Orchard. Bargain hunters will find satis¬ 
faction at the silent auction. Admission is free and a chile lunch is $5. The 
Fairgrounds parking fee is $2. Proceeds benefit All Faiths Receiving Home. For 
more information about All Faiths programs and services, call 268-6648. 


Town meetings scheduled to discuss 
Labs' changing business practices 

Employee town meetings to discuss new internal movement processes 
and other key changes in the Labs business practices are scheduled for 
Oct. 1 and Oct. 8,9-11 a.m. (MT) at the TTC (Bldg. 825). The sessions will 
be simulcast to the California, Carlsbad, and Virginia sites. 

Topics for both the Oct. 1 and Oct. 8 sessions are: 

• Electronic Timekeeping: What's New in FY98 

• The "HowTo" of Reengineered Internal Movement 

• Electronic Business Applications on the Horizon 

• Standard Labor Rates: It All Adds Up 

• Electronic Workflow, Workbox, and Delegation of Authority 

• Using the New Web-Based Employee Benefits Self-Service Application 

• Brief Review: Policy Changes to Vacation Accrual and Carryover 
Sickness Absence 





SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 10 


Mileposts 

September 1997 




Renee Foster 
25 3535 




Roger Edwards 
30 1251 





Sharon Ann Chino 
15 10509 




Ernest Padilla 


20 9781 



Robotics expo 

(Continued from page 1) 

importance to the nation's future competitive¬ 
ness. The Expo will be in the Cannon House 
Office Building. 

The event includes exhibits, intelligent- 
machine demonstrations, and panel discussions 
with speakers from Congress, universities, federal 
laboratories, and industry. Among the exhibitors 
will be Boeing Commercial Aircraft Co., Textile/ 
Clothing Technology Corp., McDonalds Corp., 
Carnegie Mellon University, Deneb Robotics, 
and the Center for Robotics in Medicine and 
Industry. The panel discussions will cover the 
opportunities and economic potential for the 
emerging US robotics and intelligent-machines 
industry, and the need for a national initiative to 
ensure America is the world leader in creating a 
dynamic industry. 

'Father of robotics' to speak 

New Mexico's US Senators Pete Domenici and 
Jeff Bingaman both plan to speak at the Expo, as 
well as Vic Reis, DOE Assistant Secretary for 
Defense Programs, and Joseph Engelberger, 
known throughout the world as "the father of 
robotics." 

Among the Sandians involved in the Expo 
will be C. Paul Robinson, Labs President and 
Director; John Crawford, Executive VP; Gerry 
Yonas, VP of Information and Pulsed Power 
Research and Technology Div. 9000; and Bob 
Eagan, VP of Electronics, Materials Research, and 
Components Div. 1000. 

The intelligent-machines demonstrations will 
include the NASA Sojourner, with video and 
photos from its twin on Mars; miniature mobile 

H Congratulations 

To Debra (12331) and Wayne (1823) Buttry 
on the adoption of their son, Nathan Andrew, 
born Aug. 23. 

To Linda Jaramillo-Alfaro (10511) and 
Lawrence Alfaro, a son, Aaron, Sept. 14. 

To Norma (4823) and David Lauben on the 
adoption of their 9-year-old daughter, Kristen 
Whitney Lauben, Sept. 15. 



LOCO ARTWORK used on invitations and fliers for the 
Congressional Expo on Intelligent Machines scheduled 
for Sept. 30 in Washington, D.C. 


robots, from one foot to little more than an inch 
across; microscopic robotic grippers smaller than 
a human hair used for assembling nanorobots the 
size of a grain of sand; a six-legged walking robot 
that can explore rough and unknown terrain; 
hardware developed for eye surgery that is now 
being applied to automotive assembly tasks; and a 
robot arm demonstrating rapid manufacturing 
assembly processes. 

Pat Eicker playing central role 

Pat, winner of this year's Joseph F. Engel¬ 
berger Robotics Award for leadership, is wearing 
two hats for the Expo. As Director of Intelligent 
Systems and Robotics at Sandia, he will lead the 
effort to promote the Labs' technical accom¬ 
plishments in robotics and intelligent machines 
as well as its role in carrying out the national 
initiative and creating a new industry. As presi¬ 
dent of the Robotics and Intelligent Machines 
Cooperative Council, a volunteer advisory group 
created to accelerate and promote robotics tech¬ 
nologies, Pat will oversee a broader effort to 
coordinate the initiative and garner the aid of 
government. 

Expo organizers hope to demonstrate the role 
the federal government can play in the develop¬ 
ment of the initiative, similar to its role in stimu¬ 
lating the expansion of other major industries — 
automobiles, computers, and airplanes. The gov¬ 
ernment can first identify and promulgate the 
needs of robotics and intelligent machines and 
then can provide seed funding for national test¬ 
bed centers, where government, university, and 
industry researchers can work closely to bring 
new products and technologies to market. Sandia, 


home of the Robotic Manufacturing Science & 
Engineering Laboratory (RMSEL) — the largest 
robotics research and development laboratory in 
the US — would be a logical location for one of 
the testbeds. 

"If we are successful in getting these test¬ 
beds funded, it would allow us to do good, col¬ 
laborative technical work around the country 
with universities and industry in ways it's hard 
to do right now," Pat says. "Those collabora¬ 
tions also will help identify potential customers 
for Sandia." 

The Expo is the principal outcome of the 
National Needs Workshop on Robotics held last 
October in Albuquerque immediately after 
RMSEL's dedication. About 60 robotics experts 
from throughout the country representing 
industry, vendors, universities, and the national 
laboratories attended the workshop, which was 
sponsored by the National Science Foundation 
and DOE. 

The workshop helped solidify support and 
cooperation among different segments of the 
robotics and intelligent machines community, 
from users and suppliers to those involved in 
research and development. The workshop's white 
paper, outlining the vision for a new robotics and 
intelligent machines industry based on coopera¬ 
tion and collaboration, caught the eye of Wash¬ 
ington policymakers and helped establish their 
desire for the Expo. 



Fun & Carnes 


Ice hockey — The 30-30 Ice Hockey Association 
is looking for new players for the fall season. The 
league plays Sunday mornings at the Outpost Ice 
Arena. For more information, contact John Cilke 

(6541) at 291-8732 or Dave Cady at 856-6121. 

* * * 

Tennis — Results of the annual Coronado 
Tennis Club Labor Day weekend tennis tourna¬ 
ment held Aug. 30-Sept. 1: 

Men's 3.0-3.5 singles: Leland Byers (4914), 

6-2, 6-3 

Men's 4.0-4.5 singles: Cliff Ho (6115), 6-2, 6-2 
Men's doubles: Wendell Archer (1251) and 
Herman Smith (DOE), 6-7, 6-3, and 7-6 

Mixed 7.0 doubles: Jim (14405) and Nancy 
Gebhart, 7-6, 5-7, and 6-3 

Mixed 8.0 doubles round robin: Fred (ret.) 
and Sara Cericola 




SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 11 


Sandia _ . _ . Sandia .. . Sandia .. . Sandia 

Classified Ads Classified Ads hh Classified Ads Classified Ads 


MISCELLANEOUS 

ROCKER/RECLINER, $30; oak TV stand, 

$25; XC skis, $30; loveseat, $15; lamp, 
table, $10 ea. Porter, 821-7813 

TODDLER BED, fit linens, $50; infant carri¬ 
ers: backpack, $30; front carrying, $10; 
Macintosh memory, 2x8MB SIMMs, 
$30. Hietala, 867-9577. 

SMOKER BOX, for gas grill, makes smoke in 
gas grill from wood chips, cast iron, 7- 
3/4“ x 4-3/4” x 1-3/4", new. $20. 
DiPrima, 275-3479. 

PENTIUM-90, 1.6 CIC-HD, 16 MEG RAM, 
CD, sound, WIN95, OFFICE97, 21-in. 
SVGA monitor, $850. Burstein, 
899-8971, after 6 p.m. 

CHEST FREEZER, 15.8 cu. ft., Kenmore, 

$90. Owens, 281-8525. 

LEGO PARTS, 7,361 pieces, in 20 sets, 
clean, complete, will sell as a whole on¬ 
ly, $400. Meirans, 271-2313, evenings. 

OGEE CLOCK, 1830's, 24-hour, 27 x 16, 
$155; )im Beam's Duesenberg Model-) 
car decanter, $95. Anderson, 

296-3352. 

TELESCOPE, Celestron Firstscope 114, 4.5- 
in. Newtonian, equatorial mount, tri¬ 
pod, $200 OBO. Bradley, 281-7086. 

GOLF CLUBS, new King Cobra clones, 
graphite shafts, 3-PW, $150; misc. 
dubs, drivers, putters. LaDuca, 
292-6745. 

THULE SKI/BIKE RACK, w/locks, holds 3 
pair skis; 1 bike, w/mountain bike 
adapter, $100. Knisely, 296-2521. 

WASHER/DRYER, (2 sets) almond/white, 
$300 ea. set; Gibson upright freezer, 
$150. Dansby, 821-4416. 

ALUMINUM CAMPER SHELL, fits Ford FI 50 
pickup, $50. Johnson, 296-4659. 

BUNK BEDS, w/3 underbed drawers, Broy- 
hill "Vacation" model, oak, w/mattress- 
es, very good condition, $225. Richard, 
286-2134. 

SOFA BED/MATCHING LOVESEAT, 

$275/both; Igloo dog house, medium, 
$30. laramillo, 292-3295. 

LAWN MOWER, w/grass catcher, 20-in., 
$40; carpeted van floor mats, $20; 
backyard dining canopy, $10. Harrison, 
897-0658. 

POWER RIDER (like Healthrider), mint con¬ 
dition, $90. Hartman, 296-7924. 

ROWING MACHINE, variable resistance, 
great for TV watchers, $40; cycling 
shoes, woman's 40, never used, $30. 
Filuk,281-0078. 

CAMPER SHELL, fiberglass, fits long-wide 
box, excellent condition, $350 OBO. 
Schaub, 865-8807 

DOGHOUSE, large, wooden, free, but you 
pick it up. Robbins, 823-2492. 

NORDICTRACK WALKFIT TREADMILL, 

Model 5500, like new, cost $600, ask¬ 
ing $300. Hardy, 897-9032. 

GARAGE SALE, fund-raising for U-l 3 girls 
Duke City soccer team, more than 10 
families. Sat., Sept. 27, 8:30 a.m.-4 
p.m., 2724 Utah NE. Fraley, 299-6946 

TRAIN TABLE, 4' x 8', for model train set¬ 
up, $25. Kelly, 293-2475. 

SAGUARO CACTUS, 3-ft., healthy, in large 
terra-cotta pot, indoor plant, nursery 
tagged, highest offer obtains. 
Thompson, 292-2877. 

GARAGE SALE, 2-family, Fri. & Sat., Sept. 
26-27, 4900 Casa del Oso, on Morris at 
Osuna. Klamerus, 294-3398. 

TWIN BEDROOM SET, white, French- 
Provincial canopy, bed/mattresses, 
chest of drawers, dresser/mirror, bed¬ 
spread St canopy, $250. Larkin, 
237-2559. 

LEATHER RECUNER, by Lane, cream color, 
paid $600, asking $300; sofa fit love 
seat. Southwestern design, paid $700, 
asking $350. Naru, 821-7490. 

DACHSHUND, AKC, beautiful long-hair 
miniature, male pups, 2nd shots St 
wormed, 15 wks. old, will deliver in Al¬ 
buquerque area, $225 cash. Gray, 
281-4172. 

EXERCYCLE, Tunturi, recumbent, used 3 
months. Thorp, 292-0169. 

LEATHER |ACKET, Hein Gericke, size 42, 
black/gray, $200; chaps, $100; winter 
gloves, $20; diving wetsuit, 6mil, $150. 
Apodaca, 298-2122. 

LARGE SOFA, tan w/neutral flower design, 
$150 OBO. McNeill, 897-2634. 

DUAL-TAPE DECK, $135; lamp table, $125; 
king headboard, $100; cell phone, 

$75; CD player, $50; pager, $40; pet 
carrier, $10. Salazar, 899-0483. 

SOFA, blue sectional, excellent condition, 
built-in bed and recliner, paid $1,400, 
asking $900 OBO. Moore, 286-8924. 

EXERCYCLE, upper/lower body, work-out 
adjustable, men-or-women calorie 
counter, $75. Marr, 345-4006. 

SUN-TANNING UNIT, complete w/bulbs St 
timer. Gillen, 294-7551. 


ELECTRIC LAWN MOWER, hot-water 
heater, woman's 3-spd. bike, electric 
dryer, livingroom furniture, stereo, 
door. Crosby, 565-1310. 

GOLF CLUBS, King Cobra 1, 3, St 5 woods, 
firm graphite shaft, man's RH, w/cov- 
ers, $240 total. Yingst, 835-0749. 

TWO STUDENT DESKS, $10 ea.; Kenmore 
washer/dryer, $ 100/set; American Peo¬ 
ple encyclopedia set (1980), $40. 

Lujan, 822-0205. 

TREADMILL, GE, adjustable speed, good 
condition, $70. Montano, 892-0987. 

TIRES, 4-31/1150, 4-31/1050, w/white 
spoke rims, 4/215/75, w/chrome rims; 
Nissan parts: blue bench seat, dash, 
carpet, electric wire harness. Chavez, 
861-0712. 

CHAIR/LOUNGE, automatic, for elderly, 
arthritic to raise to feet, medium size, 2 
yrs. old, beige, $250; other infirmity 
items. Layne, 296-7159. 

HOLLEY 4011 CARBURETOR, 800 CFM 
spreadbore, dual feed, double pumper, 
too big for my engine, $190. 
Dickenmann, 892-9561. 

HIKING BOOTS, 8-in. leather, used twice, 
$15; front bumper hitch w/ball, makes 
trailer parking easy, $10. Horton, 
883-7504. 

WOMAN'S SKI BOOTS, size 7, Raichle rear 
entry, used little, $20. Krause, 
858-1289. 

OAK ROLL-TOP DESK, S-curve, pidgeon 
holes, 49"W x 30"D x 44'H, $525. 
Dybwad, 296-9047. 

YARD SALE, Sat. Sept. 27,1119 Granada 
Hills Ct. NE, tools, bicycle, camping 
equipment, picnic table, more, 8 a.m.- 
2 p.m. Koenig. 

LARGE AQUARIUM, w/stand, $55; small 
aquarium, w/stand, $35; bookcase, $5; 
bicycle, $10. Dean, 299-3281. 

BARBIES BEACH BUGGY, kids battery-pow¬ 
ered jeep, $50. Wright, 296-3850. 

BOOKS: Life Library of Photography, 27 vol¬ 
umes, $100; Life History of US, 12 vol¬ 
umes, $75; This Fabulous Century, 8 vol¬ 
umes $50. Kaufmann, 292-9249. 

FREEZER, United Commercial, 18-cu. ft., 
heavy-duty, upright, excellent condi¬ 
tion, $400 OBO. Henderson, 

831-5128, weekdays, 6-8 p.m. 

SUNBEAM MIXMASTER, 4-spd., hand mix¬ 
er, excellent condition, $8.50. Wagner, 
823-9323. 

FREEZER, 9-cu. ft., upright, white, walnut 
door, $100; heavy-duty aluminum 
storm doors, $15 ea.; sleeping bags, 
never used, $10 ea. McGirk, 884-4592. 

SOFA SLEEPER, queen. Southwest colors, 
very good condition, $150. Kubiak, 
856-7455. 

HEALTHRIDER, top-of-the-line model, ex¬ 
cellent condition, $150 OBO. Wilson, 
286-8192. 

FULL PA BAND SYSTEM, $1,500 or trade 
for equal value; pop-up camping trail¬ 
er, '96 jayco Eagle 8, sleeps 6, $3,600; 
HealthRider, $100, man's bike, $100. 
Rhoden, 293-5301. 

PRECIOUS MOMENTS COLLECTION, some 
retired, some members only, $35- 
$100. Wenzelburger, 256-9370, call 
5-8 p.m., ask for Rosa. 

SET OF RIMS, 13x7, McLiens St Roadsters, 
chrome w/gold, speakers, amp. 
Gonzales, 869-2186, pager. 

ENTERTAINMENT '98 BOOKS, Boy Scout 
Troop 496, restaurants, travel, lodging, 
lob of bargains, $35. Keener, 

294-1919. 

WHITE WICKER DRESSERS: tall, 5-drawer, 
49"H x 19"W x 17"D, $70; short 3- 
drawer, 29"H x 29"W x 16"D, $50; 
brass pulls. Strascina, 294-0305. 

MICROWAVE, Amana Touchmatic II 

Radarange, w/temperature probe, $65; 
Corning ceramic cooktop, white, $40; 
stainless-steel double sink, w/fauceb, 
$15. Bear, 881-7128. 

BOY'S HUFFY BIKE, 20-in„ $40; double 
umbrella stroller, $20. Fajardo, 
296-6845. 

BROWNING 7MM ACTION RIFLE, Mag 
bolt, walnut stock, w/Bushnell 3x9 
variable scope, $450. Smith, 856-9176. 

BRASS HEADBOARD, queen-size, w/porce- 
lain accenb, $75. Wilson, 858-1131. 

TABLE fit CHAIRS, flfties-style, art deco, 
chrome legs fit vinyl chairs, $175. 

(ones, 856-1837. 

BIKE SEAT FOR CHILD (attaches to adult bi¬ 
cycle), good condition, $10. Ludwig, 
856-5111. 

HEADBOARD, w/shelves, mirrors, queen- 
size, solid oak, good condition. Carroll, 
298-2827. 

THREE-PIECE LUGGAGE, Samsonite (hard), 
strawberry color, $80; brown swivel 
chair/rocker, $40. Greear, 839-4255. 

GARAGE SALE, 8440 Joseph Sharp NE, Sat., 
Sept. 27,9 a.m.-i p.m. Shrouf, 
821-0765. 


DEADLINE: Friday noon before 
week of publication unless changed 
by holiday. MAIL to Dept 12640, 
MS 0165, FAX to 844-0645, or bring 
to Bldg. 811 lobby. You may also 
send ads by e-mail to Nancy 
Campanozzi (nrcampa@sandia.gov). 
Call Nancy at 844-7522 with 
questions. Because of space 
constraints, ads will be printed 
on a first-come basis. 

Ad Rules 

1. Limit 22 words, including last 
name and home phone (We 
will edit longer ads). 

2. Include organization and full 
name with the ad submission. 

3. No phone-ins. 

4. Use 8'A- by 11 -inch paper. 

5. Type or print ad; use accepted 
abbreviations. 

6. One ad per issue. 

7. We will not run the same ad 
more than twice. 

8. No "for rent" ads except for 
employees on temporary as¬ 
signment. 

9. No commercial ads. 

10. For active and retired Sandians 
and DOE employees. 

11. Housing listed for sale is avail¬ 
able without regard to race, 
creed, color, or national origin. 

12. "Work Wanted" ads limited 
to student-aged children of 
employees. 


THREE WORK BENCHES: heavy-duty, w/2- 
in. thick laminated maple worktops; 
two $60 ea., one $85; moving. Sparks, 
266-5060. 

GIRL'S GYMBOREE fit DISNEY CLOTHING, 
coab (infant-4T); toddler car seat, $20; 
infant crib fit mattress, $200; Tot-loc 
chair, $7. Sjaardema, 299-8042. 

THOROUGH8RED MARE, available for half 
lease, intelligent, gentle 6-yr.-old, 
needs experienced, confident, fit gentle 
English rider, $75/mo. Baldo-Pulaski, 
345-0432. 

VSIP BOUTIQUE, professional woman's 
clothing at bargain prices, petite to 
large sizes. Sept. 26, 5-7:30 p.m., 9/27 
10-12 a.m., 9901 Dorothy Place NE. 
Crego, 292-0266. 

TRANSPORTATION 

'84 HONDA CIVIC S, 178K miles, 

runs/looks great, Alpine stereo, roof 
rack, $2,000. Draper, 281-2663. 

'88 CHEV. CORSICA PS, PB, AM/FM, low 
mileage, 1 owner, good condition, 6- 
cyl., $2,500 OBO. Stephenson, 
836-4260. 

'92 TOYOTA PREVIA DELUXE, 5-spd., 
front/rear AC, new clutch fit tires, ex¬ 
cellent condition, 74K miles, $11,750. 
Owyoung, 797-4137. 

'93 MERCURY VILLAGER, blue, tinted glass, 
rear air/heat, PW, PL, PS, (NADA 
$12,400), $10,900. Bates, 291-6060. 

'91 FORD EXPLORER XLT, 4x4, 6-cyL, 5- 
spd„ 4-dr., AC, AM/FM cassette, good 
condition, $11,000 OBO. Maestas, 
299-0336. 

'89 SAAB, Model 900, 4-dr., good condi¬ 
tion, security lock, w/snow tires, 

$6,900. Krone, 293-5778. 

'89 JEEP WRANGLER, 4.2L, V6, 5-spd., 

112K miles, hard-top, bikini-top, AC, 
alarm, oversize tires, $8,000 OBO. 
Cancilla, 298-8741. 

'85 TOYOTA 4-RUNNER, 5-spd„ AC, JVC 
AM/FM cassette, chrome wheels, tow¬ 
ing pkg., white, no accidents/dents, 
169K miles, $7,200 OBO. Newman, 
266-6928. 

'93 FORD MUSTANG GT 5.0, 5-spd., 30K 
miles, warranty, alarm, tint, cruise, PW, 
PS, excellent condition, $11,200. 
Dooley, 828-9243. 

'80 CHEV. STEPSIDE PICKUP, original own¬ 
er, runs great everything under hood 
new, $2,700. Epperson, 268-8409, ask 
for Joyce. 

'83 TOYOTA TERCEL, 150K miles, 2-dr. 
hatch, white. $1,000. Simms, 

345-4429. 

'93 FORD EXPLORER XLT, 5-spd., 4WD, 4- 
dr, AC, PW, alarm, CD, 64K miles, ex¬ 
cellent condition, $15,000. Kincaid, 
296-6014. 

'94 JEEP GRAND CHEROKEE LAREDO, 
44,700 miles, excellent condition, 
loaded, CD, leather, ABS, $17,999. 
Johnson, 286-2276, ask for Curtis or 
Laurie. 


'84 MERCURY MARQUIS, 6-cyl., 4-dr„ AT, 
tan/brown, 90K miles, good condition, 
$1,200 OBO. Kelly, 884-4443. 

'88 PLYMOUTH GRAND VOYAGER LE, V6, 
AT, front/rear AC, loaded, very good 
condition, 1 owner, 133K miles, 

$3,600 OBO. Drotning, 821-9598. 

'90 NISSAN MAXIMA, great condition, AT, 
leather interior, previously owned by 
auto repair shop owner, $8,300 firm. 
Hunter, 865-5745, ask for Jeff. 

'66 BUICK LESABRE, classic, beautiful 
shape, AC, AT, V8, 67K miles, $3,500 
OBO. Reese, 281-3498. 

'91 EAGLE TALON, 91K miles, well main¬ 
tained, red w/black spoiler, gray interi¬ 
or, garguaged, $5,000. Pasco, 
890-6306. 

'93 CHEV. BLAZER LT TAHOE, 4x4, leather, 
royal blue, AT, all power, digital dis¬ 
play, 81K miles, $13,800. Gallegos, 
899-9004. 

'85 VOLVO 760 GLE, excellent, gasoline, 
AT, PS, PW, sunroof, leather seats, 
AM/FM cassette, 78K miles, $4,000. 
Halbgewachs, 268-1584. 

'67 CHEV. 327 PICKUP, 1/2-ton, V8, 4-bar¬ 
rel carb., AT, rebuilt engine, new ma¬ 
hogany long bed, new carpet, beautiful 
condition, $2,800. Colgan, 344-3776. 

'90 FORD AEROSTAR XL, extended van, 
w/7-passenger seating, PL, PW, cruise, 
dual AC, $5,500 OBO. Ferguson, 
281-0135. 

'90 CHEV. CAPRICE CLASSIC, $4,000. 
Martin, 343-9719. 

'83 NISSAN PICKUP, king cab, long bed, 
manual transmission, driver's door 
damage, runs well, $800. Doyle, 
299-9455. 

'95 SUZUKI SWIFT; '95 Jeep W/Y, 6-cyl.; 

'92 Ford F250 pickup, AT; '87 Chev. 
Camera, bids through Sept. 29, right 
to refuse bids, sold as is. SLFCU, 
237-7386, ask for Christine. 

'91 GEO TRACKER, 4x4, convertible, AT, 

AC, power, new belts/hoses, 1 owner, 
62K miles, like new, $7,200. Simonton, 
797-4825. 

'91 JEEP GRAND WAGONEER, Final Edition, 
V8, leather, tons of extras, need more 
tow capacity, will part trade for '92 or 
later Suburban, 3/4-ton, $12,000. 
Barlow, 505-820-6845. 

'92 MUSTANG LX, convertible. Special Edi¬ 
tion 5.0, leather interior, fully loaded, 
AT, factory row bar w/brake light, 
alarm, 90K miles, $9,995. Tedrow, 
866-1106. 

'68 CADILLAC DEVILLE SEDAN, 2nd owner, 
excellent condition, $2,195 OBO. 
Campbell, 268-4925. 

'88 BLAZER, 74K miles, AC, radio, many 
new parts, retail $7,275 + 20 percent 
asking $7,000. Miller, 293-4093, 
evenings or weekend. 

'82 HONDA ACCORD, 5-spd., hatchback, 
w/louvers, silver, AC, cassette, new seat 
covers, good body, reliable, 157K 
miles, $1,300. Feltz, 856-1322. 

'73 DODGE D-200 CLUB CAB, new trans¬ 
mission, 94K actual miles, needs seat fit 
carburator repair, $2,000. Clark, 
869-2569. 

'92 FORD EXPLORER XLT, 4WD, AT, AC, 

PS, PB, ABS, sunroof, PW, PL, power 
mirrors fit seats, 59K miles, $11,900. 
Pecsok, 275-6526. 

'95 TOYOTA TACOMA PICKUP, 2WD, ex¬ 
tended cab, 18K miles, loaded, factory 
warranty, $13,500. Aragon, 888-3473. 

'96 SAAB 900S, 5-dr., 14.5K miles, power 
sunroof, alarm, AC, AT, mint condition, 
$22,500 OBO. Sellinger, 828-4993. 

'80 CJ7, 304-V8, AT, hardtop, smog legal, 
2.5-in. lift, 33-in. mud T/A's, Tuffy con¬ 
sole, more, $6,200. Schlienger, 
822-9326. 


RECREATIONAL 

'93 ALLEGRO BAY MOTORHOME, 37-ft„ 
10.5K miles, 454 Chev., AT w/OD, 
loaded, excellent condition. $55,000 
firm. Homan, 892-3346. 

'93 VACATION AIR TRAVEL TRAILER, Park 
model, 39-ft., tilt-out living room fit 
bedroom, special built w/many extras, 
$12,500. Jarrett, 254-1035. 

CAMPER, 32-ft. Holiday Rambler, 5th 
Wheel; 1 -ton dually truck, self-con¬ 
tained; both $6,000. Sanchez, 
864-3581. 

CABOVER CAMPER, Eldorado, 7-ft Aire, 
old, needs repair, originally for small 
pickup, modified for regular pickup, 
free. Walkington, 839-9662. 

SANDIA PEAK SKI PATROL SKI SWAP, 
check-in Oct. 31-Nov. 7, sale Nov. 1, 

9 a.m.-4 p.m., Nov. 2,1-4 p.m., sell 
old, buy new. Haley, 281-2898. 


GLASTRON BOAT, 14-ft., w/6-hp Evinrude 
outboard, oars, trailer, $1,000 OBO. 
Burns, 281-3922. 

SKI BOAT, 18-ft. Nordic, 460-cu.-in. Ford, 
tandem trailer, cover, $6,900 OBO. 
Abbin, 296-7678. 

'79 COMPANION MOTORHOME, Dodge 
440, 24-ft., 47K miles, roof AC, 3-way 
frig., generator, micro, $7,200. 
Schluter, 281-5954. 


REAL ESTATE 

3-BDR., plus office, den w/fireplace, large 
kitchen, living room, fenced back 
w/playground, very quiet Lomas/Tom- 
asita area, 1,924 sq. ft. Hobbs, 
291-8267. 

2- BDR. CONDO, 2 baths, NE Heights, next 

to mountain fit open space, 1,225 sq. 
ft., $108,900. Brown, 298-8447. 

3- 4 BDR. HOME, 2 baths, remodeled cus¬ 

tom adobe, 3 acres in alfalfa, irrigation 
rights, pipe fenced corral/bam, 
$249,900. Bruff, 232-7608. 

3-BDR. HOME, Towne Parke, 1-3/4 baths, 
1,350 sq. ft., $124,000, 2-bdr. Sandia 
Plaza condo, 3501 JuanTabo NE., 1- 
1/2 baths, pool, clubhouse. Lucero, 
296-2473. 

3-BDR. NE HOME, newly remodeled, 1,900 
sq. ft., 1-3/4 baths, Dennis Chavez 
school district, $159,000. Miller, 
828-2708. 

3-BDR. HOME, 2 master suites, Rio Rancho, 
immaculate, 2 full baths, 1,500 sq. ft., 
much storage space, large xeriscaped 
lot, $92,500. Kovarik, 897-2188. 

3-BDR. HOME, near base, 610 Valencia SE, 
1,600 sq. ft., remodeled, basement, 
workshop, $103,000. Bonn, 298-4263. 

3-BDR. HOME, Edgewood, 1,408 sq. ft., 1- 
3/4 baths, 2-car garage, safe subdivi¬ 
sion, 1 acre, easy commute, must sell, 
upgrades, $132,700. Kunerth, 
281-6689. 

3-BDR. CUSTOM HOME, east mountains, 

2 baths, 2.3 acres, 1,600 sq. ft., wood- 
beam ceilings, Saltillo tile, passive solar, 
garage, $135,000. )ustin, 281-6606. 

3-BDR. HOME, 2 baths, 2-car garage, kiva, 
covered patio, secure enclosed yard, 
fully landscaped, Eubank/Montgomery, 
(Sandia 15-min.). Aguilar, 275-2827. 

WANTED 

FRENCH TRANSLATOR, informal translation 
of French rare-dog-breed book ex¬ 
cerpts. Wilson, 275-8384, after 6 p.m. 

MOVING BOXES, will pick up. Sartor, 
858-2554. 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES, on artist Andrew 
Wyeth, 2/10/97 People and 3/97 issues 
of Life. Harris, 265-4792. 

PEOPLE (5-10), seeking to collectively own 
vacation house in Costa Rica, have 
prospect. Roseth, 856-6964. 

HOUSEMATE, wanted to share spacious 
house, Inez neighborhood, 3-bdr./2- 
baths, garage, off street parking, pets 
ok, S425/mo +1/2 utilities. Murphy, 
323-2796. 

CAR, good, old, safe, nice, fit reliable for 
student. Hill, 293-2376 

USED MACINTOSH POWERBOOK, for 
word processing. George, 292-5368. 

PIANO. Korbin, 299-9088. 

HOUSEMATE, 2-bdr„ 2 baths, 1 mile to 
UNM Law School, 1 st/last, 

$395/month w/utilities. Hsia, 

260-0359, ask for Jim. 

'68-71 CORVETTE, must be in running 
condition; Igloo-type dog house, for 
large or extra-large dog. Kureczko, 
281-8206. 

WORK WANTED 

MATH TUTOR available for high school 
math: all types, all levels, reasonable 
rates. Turner, 823-9606. 

LOST & FOUND 

LOST: Woman's tennis bracelet, on Sept. 2, 
between Cafeteria fit Bldg. 890, can ID 
w/matching eatings. Martinez, 
284-3641. 

FOUND: White envelope, w/new pair of sil¬ 
ver earrings, addressed to "Pat," signed 
"Betty," in Bldg. 836, Room 1000. Tal- 
lant, 845-9832. 

LOST: Small shiny black/white makeup 
bag, with makeup and contacts inside, 
desperately needed. Bldg. 800, Thurs., 
Sept. 4. Torres, 284-2416. 






SANDIA LAB NEWS • September 26, 1997 


Page 12 


Sandia Web developers design 
DOE's new education outreach site 


Department of Energy Headquarters tapped 
Sandia's Web development expertise recently in 
putting together a new Internet site for teachers 
and students that supports Energy Secretary 
Federico Pefia's education outreach initiatives. 

The page is titled ESTEEM, for Education in 
Science, Technology, Energy, Engineering, and 
Math. A link to the new site appears on DOE's 
home page (http://www.doe.gov/), accessible 
through Sandia's External Web. 

The project began in August just prior to 
Pefia's trip to Albuquerque, during which he was 
scheduled to demonstrate use of the Internet at a 
Rio Rancho elementary school. In anticipation of 
that event, Sam Rodriguez, DOE Assistant Direc¬ 
tor of Energy Research for Communications and 
Development, asked Lockheed Martin Energy and 
Environment Sector VP for Public Relations Jerry 
Langheim for assistance in putting together a 
page of links to educational sites that Pefia could 
show students, teachers, and media. 

Langheim offered Sandia's expertise in Web 
site development, and Pefia and his staff were 
impressed with the results, says Manny 
Ontiveros, Manager of Advanced Communica¬ 
tions Dept. 12690, who coordinated the project. 

After the visit, DOE requested that Sandia put 
together a more permanent Web-based entryway 
leading to DOE educational sites complex-wide. 
Mona Aragon of Creative Arts Dept. 12620 
designed and programmed the pages. 

The result is an attractive site featuring a 
cityscape image map with links to DOE laborato¬ 
ries, as well as to a variety of education-related 
sites developed by other government agencies 
and universities. Elementary-, middle-, high 
school-, and university-level links contain educa¬ 
tional information tailored to particular age 
groups. Other links provide information about 
specific topics. 

Click on the cloud icon and get information 
about ongoing climate research, for instance. 
Select the gas station icon and get information 
about fossil fuel energy. The Energy and Science 
Museum is really a link to sites provided by 
Brookhaven National Laboratory, including an 
"Ask the Scientist" site that teachers and students 
can use to get answers to their science questions 
from Brookhaven researchers. 

There's also a computer store (DOE comput¬ 
ing information), a mall (under construction), a 
windmill (the science of wind), a library (primers 
on the solar system, genetics, electronic cash, 
etc.), a teacher's lounge (instructional materials 
for teachers and a virtual chat room), a play¬ 
ground (under construction), a university (infor¬ 
mation about fellowships and internships), and 
roads to NASA, the National Science Foundation, 

Fun & Carnes 

Fun Walk — The 1997 Albuquerque AIDS 
Walk is scheduled for Saturday, Oct. 18, at 
Tiguex Park in Albuquerque. This 6th annual 
5K (3.1 miles) walk raises money for nine Albu¬ 
querque nonprofit organizations that offer pre¬ 
vention education programs to the community 
and provide services to people with HIV or 
AIDS. Beneficiaries include AIDS Emergency 
Fund, Albuquerque Area Indian Health Board, 
Community of Damien, Health Care for the 
Homeless, HIV Coordinating Council, NAMES 
Project New Mexico, New Mexico AIDS Ser¬ 
vices, NM Street Outreach Programs, and 
Youth Development, Inc. Approximately 2,000 
people attended last year's walk and raised 
more than $100,000. For information, call 
271-0003, send a fax to 271-0482, or e-mail 
AIDSWALK@AOL.com. 


and other home page destinations. 

DOE facilities nationwide are adding educa¬ 
tion-related links all the time, says Bill Dawes, 

Manager of Education Outreach Services Dept. 

3613. Dept. 3613 is working to add more informa¬ 
tion about Sandia's summer student internships, 
postsecondary minority institution assistance, and 
other education outreach programs, he says. 

"Our investments to promote national scien¬ 
tific excellence cannot succeed if young Ameri¬ 
cans don't have the appropriate skills," reads a 
statement from Pefia appearing below the 
ESTEEM image map. 

"We need a scientifically literate public, as 
well as a highly skilled technical workforce, to 
support our future energy, environmental, and 
national security objectives. I want to use the 
Internet to introduce our children to DOE's 
supercomputer work, to our work in designing 
super-efficient automobiles, and to our work in 
biology, chemistry, and physics." 

—John German 

Sandia News Briefs 

'Seaborgium' honors science titan, former AEC chairman Glenn Seaborg 

Element 106. Seaborgium. Abbreviation: Sg. To his Nobel Prize, Glenn Seaborg can add another great 
crowning achievement to an illustrious career that spans well over half a century and includes co-discovery 
of at least 10 elements and 10 years as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, predecessor organization 
of the Department of Energy. On Aug. 30, the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry 
approved names for elements 104 through 109. IUPAC designated element 106 "seaborgium." Other names 
include: element 104, rutherfordium; 105, dubnium; 107, bohrium; 108, hassium; 109, meitnerium. The 
elements, belonging collectively to the transfermium family, do not occur naturally but are created in the 
laboratory and have vanishingly small half-lives. The IUPAC names were approved by the American 
Chemical Society on Sept. 7. 

'Character Counts' with Sandia, Southwest Airlines, and YMCA 

Sandia is teaming with Southwest Airlines and Mountainside YMCA to celebrate the lessons of 
"Character Counts." During festivities preceding the Balloon Glow of the Kodak Albuquerque International 
Balloon Fiesta on Oct. 5 there will be Character Counts sign-up and giveaways in the Children's Area at 
the north end of Balloon Fiesta Park. Character Counts week is Oct. 19-25. The Character Counts pillars 
are respect, responsibility, trustworthiness, citizenship, fairness, and caring. 


Coronado Club 

Sept. 2S — Thursday bingo night. Card 
sales and buffet start at 5 p.m., early birds' 
bingo at 6:45 p.m. 

Oct. 3 — Oktoberfest. Bavarian-style 
music and floor show, 7-11 p.m. Music by 
Die Polka Schlingels. Reservations at 
265-6791. 

Oct. 5 — Sunday brunch buffet, 

10 a.m.-2 p.m. $8.95 all-you-can-eat buf¬ 
fet; $9.95 for nonmembers; kids 3-12, 
$4.19; under 3 free. Music by Swingshift, 
1-4 p.m. 

Oct. 2, 9, 16, 22, 30 — Thursday bingo 
night. Card sales and buffet start at 5 p.m., 
early birds' bingo at 6:45 p.m. 

Oct. 17 — "Western Night" dinner/ 
dance. $6.95 all-you-can-eat buffet ($7.95 
for guests), 6-9 p.m. Music by Isleta Poor 
Boys, 7-11 p.m. 

Oct. 19 — Kids bingo. Buffet, 5-8 p.m.; 
cartoons, 5-7 p.m.; bingo, 7 p.m. 

Oct. 21 — Sunday brunch buffet, 
10a.m.-2p.m. Music by Bob Weiler. 


' V 



Welcome 


New Mexico — Henry Duong (6406), Steven 
Hafner (5100) 

Illinois — Richard Lehoucq (9222) 


A SHARP EYE FOR SHARPS — Sharp objects left in trash cans, bags, and boxes can endanger the people who pick 
up and handle your trash and surplus equipment. Here, custodian Bernie Zimmerman (7645-2) carefully handles a 
syringe found in a Sandia trash can. A Reapplication worker was stuck with a hypodermic needle several months 
ago and had to be administered an AIDS tests in Medical. This is not an isolated incident, according to Bob 
Eldredge, Manager of Property and Reapplication Dept. 10267 (844-3260), and Reggie Tibbetts, Manager of Cus¬ 
todial Matrixed Services Dept. 7845 (844-5244). Too often, Sandia Custodial and Reapplication workers are cut and 
receive puncture wounds from needles, glass, coffee can lids, sheet metal, wire, and other sharp objects. They ask 
that you take special precautions with sharp objects. Coffee can lids should be covered with cardboard and tape 
and be labeled. Glass, especially broken glass, should be sealed inside a rigid cardboard container and labeled, or 
deposited in blue-and-white cardboard glass collection containers. Wire and pipe should be bundled and sharp 
ends should be taped. Hypodermic needles used by diabetics should always be wrapped in tape and then sealed 
inside a labeled box or rigid container. (Photo by Randy Montoya) 






