me 





Caliban 

and the 

Witch. 



Silvia 


Autonomedia 


Acknowledgements 

To the many witches I have met in the Womens Movement, and to the other 
witches whose stories have accompanied me for more than twenty-five years, 
nevertheless leaving an inexhaustible desire to tell, to let people know,to make 
sure that they will not be forgotten. 

To our biother Jonathan Cohen whose love, courage and uncompromising 
resistance to injustice have helped me not lose faith in the possibility of chang¬ 
ing the world and in men's ability to make the struggle for women’s liberation 
their own. 

To the people who have helped me to produce this volume. I thank George 
Caffentzis with whom I have discussed every aspect of this book; Mitchel 
Cohen for his excellent comments, his editing of parts of the manuscript, and 
his enthusiastic support for this project; Ousseina Alidou and Maria Sari for 
introducing me to the work of Maryse Conde; Ferruccio Gambino for mak¬ 
ing me aware of the existence of slavery in 16^'- and 17^-century Italy; David 
Goldstein for the materials he has given me on the witches’“pharmakopeia”; 
Conrad Herold, for contributing to my research on witch hunting in Peru; 
Massimo de Angelis,for giving me his writings on primitive accumulation and 
for the important debate on this topic which he organized in The Commoner; 
Willy Mutunga for the materials he has given me on the legal aspects of witch¬ 
craft in East Africa. I thank Michaela Brennan and Veena Viswanatha for read¬ 
ing die manuscript and giving me advice and support. I also thank Mariarosa 
Dalla Costa, Nicholas Faraclas, Leopolda Fortunati, Everet Green, Peter 
Linebaugh, Bene Madunagu, Maria Mies, Ariel Salleh, Hakim Bey. Their 
works have been a reference point for the perspective that shapes Caliban and 
the Witch, though they may not agree with all that I have written here. 

Special thanks to Jim Fleming, Sue Ann Harkey,Ben Meyers and Erika Biddle, 
who have given many hours of their time to this book and, with their patience 
and assistance, have given me the possibility of finishing it, despite my endless 
procrastination.— New York, April 2004 


Autonomedia 

POB 568 Williamsburgh Station, Brooklyn, NY 11211-0568 USA 
www.autonomedia.org info@autonomedia.org 

Text anti-copyright @ 2004 Silvia Federici 

This text may be freely reproduced for non-commercial purposes. 

Please inform the author and publisher at the address above of any such use. 

Designed by Sue Ann Harkey 

First edition, 2004.Third printing. 2009 
ISBN 1-57027-059-7 


Printed in the United States of America 



Table of Contents 


Preface 

Introduction 

All the World Needs a Jolt 
Social Movements and Political Crisis in Medieval Europe 


7 

11 

21 


The Accumulation of Labor and the Degradation of Women 
Constructing “Difference" in the “Transition to Capitalism" 


61 


The Great Caliban 
The Struggle Against the Rebel Body 


133 


The Great Witch-Hunt in Europe 163 

Colonization and Christianization 219 

Caliban and Witches in the New World 


Index 
Image sources 
Bibliography 


244 

271 

272 


Woodcut of untches conjuring a shouvr of rain. In Ulrich Xlolitor ,; De Lamhes 
ET PvMONtCts XIuueribus (On Female Sorcerers and Soothsay™) (1489). 





Preface 


Caliban and the Hitch presents the main themes of a research project on women in the 
*‘transition’’from feudalism to capitalism that I began in the mid-1970s, in collaboration 
with an Italian feminist, Leopoldina Fortunati. Its first results appeared in a book that we 
published in Italy in 1984: II Grande Calibano. Storial del corpo social ribelle nella primaJase 
del capitate (Milano: Franco Angeli) [The Great Calibati. History of the Rebel Body in the 
First Phase o f Capitalism j. 

My interest in this research was originally motivated by the debates that accompa¬ 
nied the development of the Feminist Movement in the United States concerning the 
roots of womens “oppression,” and the political strategies which the movement should 
adopt in the struggle for women’s liberation.At the time, the leading theoretical and polit¬ 
ical perspectives from which the reality of sexual discrimination was analyzed were those 
proposed by the two main branches of the women’s movement: die Radical Feminists 
and the Socialist Feminists. In my view, however, neither provided a satisfactory explana¬ 
tion of the roots of the social and economic exploitation of women. I objected to the 
Radical Feminists because of their tendency to account for sexual discrimination and 
patriarchal rule on the basis of transhistorical cultural structures, presumably operating 
independendy of reladons of production and class. Socialist Feminists, by contrast, recog¬ 
nized that the history of women cannot be separated from the history of specific systems 
of exploitation and, in their analyses, gave priority to women as workers in capitalist soci¬ 
ety. But the limit of their position, in my understanding of it at the time, was that it failed 
to acknowledge the sphere of reproduction as a source of value-creation and exploita¬ 
tion, and thus traced the roots of the power differential between women and men to 
women s exclusion from capitalist development — a stand which again compelled us to 
wly on cultural schemes to account for the survival of sexism within the universe of cap¬ 
italist relations. 

It was in this context that the idea of tracing the history of women in die tran&i- 
tlo n from feudalism to capitalism took form.The thesis which inspired this research was 
first articulated by Mariarosa Dalla Costa and Selma James, as well as other activists in 
the Wages For Housework Movement, in a set of documents that in the 1970s were very 
controversial, but eventually reshaped the discourse on women, reproduction, and capi¬ 
talism. The most influential among them were Mariarosa Dalla Costa’s Women and the 
Subversion of the Community (1971), and Selma James’ Sex 3 Race and Class (1975). 


Preface 


Against the Marxist orthodoxy, wliich explained women s “oppression” and sub- 
ordination to men as a residuum of feudal relations, Dalla Costa and James argued that 
the exploitation of women has played a central function in the process of capitalist 
accumulation, insofar as women have been the producers and reproducers of the most 
essential capitalist commodity: labor-power. As Dalla Costa put it, womens unpaid 
labor in the home has been the pillar upon which the exploitation of the waged work¬ 
ers, “wage slavery/* has been built, and the secret of its productivity (1972:31).Thus, the 
power differential between women and men in capitalist societry cannot be attributed 
to the irrelevance of housework for capitalist accumulation — an irrelevance belied by 
the strict rules that have governed womens lives — nor to the survival of timeless cul¬ 
tural schemes. Rather, it should be interpreted as the effect of a social system of pro¬ 
duction that does not recognize the production and reproduction of the worker as a 
social-economic activity, and a source of capital accumulation, but mystifies it instead 
as a natural resource or a personal service, while profiting from the wageless condition 
of the labor involved. 

By rooting the exploitation of women in capitalist society in the sexual division 
of labor and womens unpaid work, Dalla Costa andjames showed the possibility of tran¬ 
scending the dichotomy between patriarchy and class, and gave patriarchy a specific his¬ 
torical content. They also opened the way for a reinterpretation of the history of capi¬ 
talism and class struggle from a feminist viewpoint. 

It was in this spirit that Leopoldina Fortunati and 1 began to study what can only 
be euphemistically described as the “transition to capitalism,” and began to search for a 
history that we had not been taught in school, but proved to be decisive for our educa¬ 
tion. This history not only offered a theoretical understanding of the genesis of house¬ 
work in its main structural components: the separation of production from reproduc¬ 
tion, the specifically capitalist use of the wage to command the labor of the unwaged, 
and the devaluation of womens social position with the advent of capitalism. It also pro¬ 
vided a genealogy of the modern concepts of femininity and masculinity that challenged 
the postmodern assumption of an almost ontological predisposition in “Western 
Culture” to capture gender through binary oppositions. Sexual hierarchies, we found, 
are always at the service of a project of domination that can sustain itself only by divid¬ 
ing, on a continuously renewed basis, those it intends to rule. 

The book that resulted from this research, fl Grande Calibatto: storia del corpo sociale 
ribelle tiella primafase del capitale (1984), was an attempt to rethink Marxs analysis of prim¬ 
itive accumulation from a feminist viewpoint. But in this process, the received Marxian 
categories proved inadequate. Among the casualties was the Marxian identification of cap¬ 
italism with the advent of wage labor and the “free” laborer, which contributes to hide 
and naturalize the sphere of reproduction. U Grande Calibano was also critical of Michel 
Foucault s theory of the body; as we argued, Foucault s analysis of the power techniques 
and disciplines to which the body has been subjected has ignored the process of repro¬ 
duction, has collapsed female and male histories into an undifferentiated whole, and has 
been so disinterested in the “disciplining” of women that it never mentions one of the 
most monstruous attacks on the body perpetrated in the modern era: the witch-hunt. 

The main thesis in II Grande Calibano was that in order to understand the history 
of women in the transition from feudalism to capitalism, we must analyze the changes 




Preface 


that capitalism has introduced in the process of social reproduction and, especially, the 
reproduction oflabor-power.Thus,the book examined the reorganization of housework, 
family life, cliild-raising, sexuality, male-female relations, and the relation between pro¬ 
duction and reproduction in 16 th and 17 th -century Europe. This analysis is reproduced 
j n Caliban and the Witch ; however, the scope of the present volume differs from that of H 
Grande Calibano, as it responds to a different social context and to our growing know¬ 
ledge of womens history. 

Shortly after the publication of H Grande Calibano, I left the United States and 
took a teaching position in Nigeria, where I remained for nearly three years. Before leav¬ 
ing I had buried my papers in a cellar, not expecting that I should need them for some 
time. But the circumstances of my stay in Nigeria did not allow me to forget this work. 
The years between 1984 and 1986 were a turning point for Nigeria, as for most African 
countries.These were the years when, in response to the debt crisis, the Nigerian gov¬ 
ernment engaged in negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and the World 
Bank, which eventually resulted in the adoption of a Structural Adjustment Program, the 
World Banks universal recipe for economic recovery across the planet. 

The declared purpose of the program was to make Nigeria competitive on the 
international market. But it was soon apparent that this involved a new round of prim¬ 
itive accumulation, and a rationalization of social reproduction aimed at destroying the 
last vestiges of communal property and community relations, and thereby impose more 
intense forms of labor exploitation.Thus, I saw unfolding under my eyes processes very 
similar to those that I had studied in preparation for U Grande Calibano. Among them 
were the attack on communal lands, and a decisive intervention by the State (instigated 
by World Bank) in the reproduction of the work-force: to regulate procreation rates, and, 
in this case, reduce the size of a population that was deemed too demanding and indis- 
ciplined from the viewpoint of its prospected insertion in the global economy. Along 
with these policies, aptly named the " War Against Indiscipline,” I also witnessed the fuel¬ 
ing of a misogynous campaign denouncing womens vanity and excessive demands, and 
the development of a heated debate similar, in many respects, to the 17 th century querelles 
des femmes, touching on every aspect of the reproduction of labor-power: the family 
(polygamous vs. monogamous,nuclear vs. extended),child-raising, womens work,male 
and female identity and relations. 

In this context, my work on the transition took on a new meaning. In Nigeria I 
realized that the struggle against structural adjustment is part of a long struggle against 
land privatization and the "enclosure” not only of communal lands but also of social rela¬ 
tions that stretches back to the origin of capitalism in 16 th -century Europe and America. 
1 also realized how limited is the victory that the capitalist work-discipline has won on 
this planet, and how many people still see their lives in ways radically antagonistic to the 
requirements of capitalist production. For the developers, the multinational agencies and 
foreign investors, this was and remains the problem with places like Nigeria. But for me 
lt Was a source of great strength, as it proved that, worldwide, formidable forces still con- 
tr ast the imposition of a way of life conceived only in capitalist terms.The strength I gained 
also due to my encounter with Women in Nigeria (WIN), the country’s first femi- 
nist organization, wluch enabled me to better understand the struggles that Nigerian 
^Omen have been making to defend their resources and to refuse the new model of patri- 



Preface 


archy imposed on them, now promoted by the World Bank. 

By the end of 1986, the debt crisis reached the academic institutions and, no longer 
able to support myself, I left Nigeria, in body if not in spirit. But the thought of the 
attacks launched on the Nigerian people never left me.Thus, the desire to restudy “the 
transition to capitalism'* has been with me since my return. I had read the Nigerian events 
through the prism of 16^-century Europe. In the United States, it was the Nigerian pro¬ 
letariat that brought me back to the struggles over the commons and the capitalist dis¬ 
ciplining of women, in and out of Europe. Upon my return, 1 also began to teach in an 
interdisciplinary program for undergraduates where I confronted a different type of 
“enclosure**: the enclosure of knowledge, that is, the increasing loss, among the new gen¬ 
erations, of the historical sense of our common past.This is why in Caliban and the Witch 
1 reconstruct the anti-feudal struggles of the Middle Ages and the struggles by which the 
European proletariat resisted the advent of capitalism. My goal in doing so is not only 
to make available to non-specialists the evidence on which my analysis relies, but to revive 
among younger generations the memory of a long history of resistance that today is in 
danger of being erased. Saving this historical memory is crucial if we are to find an alter¬ 
native to capitalism. For this possibility will depend on our capacity to hear the voices 
of those who have walked similar paths. 



Introduction 


Since Marx, studying die genesis of capitalism has been an obligatory step for activists and 
scholars convinced that the first task on humanity’s agenda is the construction of an 
alternative to capitalist society. Not surprisingly, every new revolutionary movement has 
returned to the “transition to capitalism,” bringing to it the perspectives of new social subjects 
and uncovering new grounds of exploitation and resistance. 1 This volume is conceived 
witliin this tradition, but two considerations in particular have motivated this work. 

First, there has been the desire to rethink the development of capitalism fiom a 
feminist viewpoint, while, at the same time, avoiding the limits of a “women’s history” 
separated from that of the male part of the working class. The title, CaJibatt ami the Witch, 
inspired by Shakespeare’s Tite Tempest, reflects this eflort. In my interpretation, however, 
Caliban represents not only the anti-colonial rebel whose struggle still resonates in 
contemporary Caribbean literature, but is a symbol for the world proletariat and, more 
specifically, for the proletarian body as a terrain and instrument of resistance to the logic 
of capitalism. Most important, the figure of the witch, who in 77/e Tempest is confined 
to a remote background, in this volume is placed at the center-stage, as the embodiment 
of a world of female subjects that capitalism had to destroy: the heretic, the healer, the 
disobedient wife, the woman who dared to live alone, the obeha woman who poisoned 
the master’s food and inspired the slaves to revolt. 

The second motivation behind this volume has been the worldwide return, with 
the new global expansion of capitalist relations, of a set of phenomena usually associated 
with the genesis of capitalism. Among them are a new round of “enclosures” that have 
expropriated null ions of agricultural producers from their land, and the mass 
pauperization and criminalization of workers, through a policy of mass incarceration 
recalling the “Great Confinement” described by Michel Foucault in his study of history 
of madness. We have also witnessed the worldwide development of new diasporic 
movements accompanied by the persecution of migrant workers, again reminiscent of 
c he “Bloody Laws” that were intioduced in lfith and 17 th -century Europe to make 
vagabonds” available for local exploitation. Most important for this book has been the 
intensification of violence against women, including, in some countries (e.g.. South 
Africa and Brazil), the return of witch-huniing. 

Why, after 500 years of capital’s rule, at the beginning of the third millennium, 
ar e workers on a mass scale still defined as paupers, witches, and outlaws? How are land 



i mi mwuwuvh 


expropriation and mass pauperization related to the continuing attack on women? And 
what do we learn about capitalist development, past and present, once we examine it 
through the vantage-point of a feminist perspective? 

It is with these questions in mind that in this work I have revisited the “transi¬ 
tion” from feudalism to capitalism from the viewpoint of women, the body, and primi¬ 
tive accumulation. Each of these concepts refers to a conceptual framework that is a ref¬ 
erence point for this work: the Feminist, the Marxist, and the FoucauIdian.Thus, I will 
begin my introduction with some observations on the relation of my analysis to these 
different perspectives. 

“Primitive accumulation” is the term that Marx uses, in Capital Vol. 1, to charac¬ 
terize the historical process upon wliich the development of capitalist relations was 
premised. It is a useful term, for it provides a common denominator through which we 
can conceptualize the changes that the advent of capitalism produced in economic and 
social relations. But its importance lies, above all, in die fact diat“primitive accumulation” 
is treated by Maix as a foundational process, revealing the structural conditions for the 
existence of capitalist society. This enables us to read the past as something wliich survives 
into the present, a consideration which is essential to my usage of the term in this work. 

However, my analysis departs fiom Marx’s in two ways. Whereas Marx examines 
primitive accumulation from the viewpoint of the waged male proletariat and the devel¬ 
opment of commodity production, I examine it from the viewpoint of the changes it 
introduced in the social position of women and the pioduction of labor-power. 2 Thus, 
my description of primitive accumulation includes a set of historical phenomena that are 
absent in Marx, and yet have been extremely important for capitalist accumulation.They 
include (i) the development of a new sexual division of labor subjugating women’s labor 
and women's iepioductive function to the reproduction of the work-force; (ii) the con¬ 
struction of a new patriarchal order, based upon the exclusion of women fiom waged- 
work and their subordination to men; (iii) the mechanization of the proletarian body and 
ite transformation, in the case of women, into a machine for the production of new work¬ 
ers. Most important, I have placed at the center of my analysis of primitive accumulation 
the witch-hunts of the 16 th and 17 th centuries, arguing that the persecution of the witches, 
in Europe as in the New World, was as important as colonization and the expropriation 
of the European peasantry from its land were for the development of capitalism. 

My analysis also departs from Marx’s in its evaluation of the legacy and function 
of primitive accumuIation.Though Marx was acutely aware of the murderous character 
of capitalist development — its history, he declared, “is written in the annals of human¬ 
ity in characters of fire and blood”— there can be no doubt that he viewed it as a nec¬ 
essary step in the process of human liberation. He believed that it disposed of small-scale 
property, and that it increased (to a degree unmatched by any other economic system) 
the productive capacity of labor, thus creating the material conditions for the liberation 
of humanity fiom scarcity and necessity. He also assumed that the violence that had 
presided over the earliest phases of capitalist expansion would recede with the maturing 
of capitalist relations, when the exploitation and disciplining of labor would be accom¬ 
plished mostly through the workings of economic laws (Marx 1909 Vol. 1). In this, he 
was deeply mistaken. A return of the most violent aspects of primitive accumulation has 
accompanied every phase of capitalist globalization, including the present one, demon- 


12 





strating that the continuous expulsion of farmers from the land, war and plunder on a 
vvorld scale, and the degradation of women are necessary conditions for the existence of 
capitalism in all times. 

I should add that Marx could never have presumed that capitalism paves the way 
t0 human liberation had he looked at its history from the viewpoint of women. For this 
history shows that, even when men achieved a certain degree of formal freedom, women 
were always treated as socially inferior beings and were exploited in ways similar to slav- 
e ry.“Women," then, in the context of this volume, signifies not just a hidden history that 
needs to be made visible; but a particular form of exploitation and, therefore, a unique 
perspective from which to reconsider the history of capitalist relations. 

This project is not new. From the beginning of the Feminist Movement women 
have revisited the ‘‘transition to capitalism” even though they have not always recognized 
it. For a while, the main framework that shaped women’s history was a chronological 
one. The most common designation feminist historians have used to describe the tran¬ 
sition period has been “early modern Europe,” which, depending on the author, could 
designate the 13 th or the 17 th century. 

In the 1980s, however, a number of works appeared that took a more critical 
approach. Among them were Joan Kelly’s essays on the Renaissance and the Querelles des 
femmes, Carolyn Merchants Hie Death of Nature (1980),Leopoldina Fortunati s L’Arcano 
della Riproduzione (1981) (now available in English, Fortunati 1995), Merry Wiesners 
Working Women in Renaissance Germany (1986), and Maria Mies’ Patriarchy and 
Accumulation on a World Scale (1986).To these works we must add the many monographs 
that over the last two decades have reconstructed women’s presence in the rural and 
urban economies of medieval and early modern Europe, and the vast literature and doc¬ 
umentary work that has been produced on the witch-hunt and the lives of women in 
pre-colonial America and the Caribbean islands. Among the latter, I want to remember 
in particular Irene Silverblatt’s Hie Moon, the Sun, and the Witches (1987), the first account 
on the witch-hunt in colonial Peru; and Hilary Beckles’ Natural Rebels. A Social History 
of Barbados (1995) which, together with Barbara Bush’s Slave Women in Caribbean 
Society: 1650-1838 (1990), is one of the major texts on the liistory of enslaved women 
in the Caribbean plantations. 

What this scholarly production has confirmed is that to reconstruct the history of 
women or to look at history from a feminist viewpoint means to redefine in fundamen¬ 
tal ways the accepted historical categories and to make visible hidden structures of dom¬ 
ination and exploitation.Thus, Kelly’s essay, “Did Women have a Renaissance?” (1984) 
undermined the classical historical periodization that celebrates the Renaissance as an 
outstanding example of cultural achievement. Carolyn Merchant s The Death of Nature 
(1980) challenged the belief in the socially progressive character of the scientific revolu- 
don , arguing that the advent of scientific rationalism produced a cultural shift from an 
organic to a mechanical paradigm that legitimized the exploitation of women and nature. 

Especially important has been Maria Mies’ Patriarchy atid Accumulation on a World 
Scale (1986), now a classic work, that re-examines capitalist accumulation from a non- 
Hurocentric viewpoint, connecting the destiny of women in Europe to that of Europe's 
c °lonial subjects, and providing for a new understanding of women’s place in capitalism 
an d the globalization process. 


13 



I 

Caliban and the Witch builds upon these works, as on the studies contained within 
H Grande CaJibano (a work I discuss in the Preface). However, its historical scope is 
broader, as the book connects the development of capitalism, on one side, to the social 
struggles and the reproduction crisis of the late feudal period and, on the other, to what 
Marx defines as the “formation of the proletariat." In this process, the book addresses a 
number of historical and methodological questions that have been at the center of the 
debate on women's history and feminist theory. 

The most important historical question addressed by die book is how to account 
for the execution of hundreds of thousands of "witches" at the beginning of the modern 
era, and how to explain why the rise of capitalism was coeval with a war against women. 
Feminist scholars have developed a fiamework that throws much light on this question. 
It is generally agreed that the witch-hunt aimed at destroying the control that women 
had exercised over their reproductive function and served to pave the way for the devel¬ 
opment of a more oppressive patriarchal regime. It is also argued that the witch-hunt was 
rooted in the social transformations that accompanied die rise of capitalism. But the spe¬ 
cific historical circumstances under which the persecution of witches was unleashed, and 
the reasons why the rise of capitalism demanded a genocidal attack on women have not 
been investigated.This is the task I take on in Caliban and the Witch , as I begin to analyze 
the witch-hunt in die context of the demographic and economic crisis of the 16^ and 
17 th centuries, and the land and labor policies of the mercantilist era. My work here is 
only a sketch of the research that would be necessary to clarify the connections I have 
mentioned, and especially die relation between die witch-hunt and the contemporary 
development of a new sexual division of labor, confining women to reproductive work. 
It is sufficient, however, to demonstrate that the persecution of witches (like the slave 
trade and the enclosures) was a central aspect of the accumulation and formation of the 
modern proletariat, in Europe as well as in the "New World." 

There are other ways in which Caliban and the Witch speaks to "womens history" 
and feminist theory. First, it confirms that "the transition to capitalism" is a test case for 
feminist theory, as the redefinition of productive and reproductive tasks and male-female 
relations that we find in this period, both realized with the maximum of violence and 
state intervention, leave no doubt concerning the constructed character of sexual roles 
in capitalist society. The analysis I propose also allows us to transcend the dichotomy 
between "gender" and "class." If it is true that in capitalist society sexual identity became 
the carrier of specific work-functions, then gender should not be considered a purely 
cultural reality, but should be treated as a specification of class relations. From this view¬ 
point, the debates that have taken place among postmodern feminists concerning the 
need to dispose of "women" as a category of analysis, and define feminism purely in 
oppositional terms, have been misguided.To rephrase the point I already made: ^"fem¬ 
ininity" has been constituted in capitalist society as a work-function masking the pro¬ 
duction of the work-force under the cover of a biological destiny, then "women's his¬ 
tory" is"class history," and the question that has to be asked is whether the sexual division 
of labor that has produced that particular concept has been transcended. If the answer 
is a negative one (as it must be when we consider the present organization of repro¬ 
ductive labor), then "women" is a legitimate category of analysis, and the activities asso¬ 
ciated with "reproduction" remain a crucial ground of struggle for women, as they were 


14 



for the feminist movement of the 1970s which, on this basis, connected itself with the 
history of the witches. 

A further question addressed by Caliban and the Witch is raised by the contrasting 
erspectives offered by the feminist and Foucauidian analyses of the body in their appli¬ 
cations to an understanding of the history of capitalist development. From the begin¬ 
ning of the Womens Movement, feminist activists and theorists have seen the concept 
of the “body” as key to an understanding of the roots of male dominance and the con¬ 
struction of female social identity. Across ideological differences, the feminists have real¬ 
ized that a hierarchical ranking of human faculties and the identification of women with 
a degraded conception of corporeal reality has been instrumental, historically, to the con¬ 
solidation of patriarchal power and the male exploitation of female labor. Thus, analy¬ 
ses of sexuality, procreation, and mothering have been at the center of feminist theory 
and womens history. In particular, feminists have uncovered and denounced the strate¬ 
gies and the violence by means of which male-centered systems of exploitation have 
attempted to discipline and appropriate the female body, demonstrating that womens 
bodies have been the main targets, the privileged sites, for the deployment of power- 
techniques and power-relations. Indeed, the many feminist studies which have been pro¬ 
duced since the early 1970s on the policing of womens reproductive function, the effects 
on women of rape, battering, and the imposition upon them of beauty as a condition 
for social acceptability, are a monumental contribution to the discourse on the body in 
our times, falsifying the perception common among academics which attributes its dis¬ 
covery to Michel Foucault. 

Starting from an analysis of “body-politics,” feminists have not only revolution¬ 
ized the contemporary philosophical and political discourse, but they have also begun to 
revalorize the body .This has been a necessary step both to counter the negativity attached 
to the identification of femininity with corporeality, and to create a more holistic vision 
of what it means to be a human being.^This valorization has taken various forms, rang¬ 
ing from the quest for non-dualistic forms of knowledge, to die attempt (with feminists 
who view sexual“difference” as a positive value) to develop a new type of language and 
“[rethink] the corporeal roots of human intelligence.” 4 As Rosi Braidotti has pointed 
out, the body that is reclaimed is never to be understood as a biological given. 
Nevertheless, such slogans as “repossessing the body” or “speaking the body ”5 have been 
criticized by post-structuralist, Foucauidian theorists, who reject as illusory any call for 
instinctual liberation. In turn,feminists have accused Foucaults discourse on sexuality of 
being oblivious to sexual differentiation, while at the same time appropriating many of 
the insights developed by the Feminist Movement. This criticism is quite appropriate. 
Moreover, Foucault is so intrigued with the “productive” character of the power-tech¬ 
niques by which the body has been invested, that his analysis practically rules out any 
critique of power-relations. The nearly apologetic quality of Foucault s theory of the 
body is accentuated by the fact that it views the body as constituted by purely discur- 
Sly e practices, and is more interested in describing how power is deployed than in iden¬ 
tifying its source. Thus, the Power by which the body is produced appears as a self-sub¬ 
item, metaphysical entity, ubiquitous, disconnected from social and economic relations, 
an d as mysterious in its permutations as a godly Prime Mover. 

Can an analysis of the transition to capitalism and primitive accumulation help us 


IS 



to go beyond these alternatives? I believe it can. With regard to the feminist approach, 
our first step should be to document the social and historic conditions under which the 
body has become a central element and the defining sphere of activity for the constitu- 
don of femininity. Along these lines, Caliban and (he Witch shows diat the body has been 
for women in capitalist society what die factory has been for male waged workers: die 
primary ground of their exploitation and resistance, as the female body has been appro¬ 
priated by the state and men and forced to function as a means for the repioduction and 
accumulation of labor. Thus, the importance which the body in all its aspects — mater¬ 
nity, childbirdi, sexuality — has acquired in feminist theory and women's history has not 
been misplaced. Caliban and the Witch also confirms the feminist insight which refuses to 
identify the body with the sphere of the private and, in this vein, speaks of “body poli¬ 
tics.” Further, it explains how the body can be for women both a source of identity and 
at the same time a prison, and why it is so important for feminists and, at the same time, 
so problematic to valorize it. 

As for Foucault's theory, the history of primitive accumulation offers many 
counter-examples to it, proving that it can be defended only at the price of outstanding 
historical omissions. The most obvious is the omission of the witch-hunt and the dis¬ 
course of demonology in his analysis of the disciplining of the body. Undoubtedly, they 
would have inspired different conclusions had they been included. For both demonstrate 
die repressive character of the power that was unleashed against women, and the implau- 
sibility of the complicity and tole-reversal that Foucault imagines to exist between vic¬ 
tims and their persecutors in his description of the dynamic of micro-powers. 

A study of the witch-hunt also challenges Foucault s theory concerning the devel¬ 
opment of “bio-power,” stripping it of the mystery by which Foucault surrounds die 
emergence of this regime. Foucault registers the shift — presumably in lS^-century 
Europe — from a type of power built on the right to kill, to a different one exercised 
through the administration and promotion of life-forces, such as population growth; but 
he offers no clues as to its motivations. Yet, if we place this shift in the context of the 
rise of capitalism the puzzle vanishes, for the promotion of life-forces turns out to be 
nothing more than the result of a new concern with the accumulation and reproduc¬ 
tion of labor-power. We can also see that the promotion of population growth by the 
state can go hand in hand with a massive destruction of life; for in many historical cir¬ 
cumstances — witness the history of the slave trade — one is a condition for die other. 
Indeed, in a system where life is subordinated to the production of profit, the accumu¬ 
lation of labor-power can only be achieved with the maximum of violence so that, in 
Maria Mies’words, violence itself becomes the most productive force. 

In conclusion, what Foucault would have learned had he studied the witch-hunt, 
rather than focusing on the pastoral confession, in his Histoty of Sexuality (1978), is that 
such history cannot be written from the viewpoint of a universal, abstract, asexual sub¬ 
ject. Further, he would have recognized that torture and death can be placed at the serv¬ 
ice of“life” or, better, at the service of the production of labor-power, since the goal of 
capitalist society is to transform life into the capacity to work and “dead labor” 

From this viewpoint,primitive accumulation has been a universal process in every 
phase of capitalist development. Not accidentally, its original historical exemplar has sed¬ 
imented strategies that, in different ways, have been re-launched in the face of every 


16 





rnaj 0r capitalist crisis* serving to cheapen the cost oflabor and to hide the exploitation 
of women and colonial subjects. 

This is what occurred in the 19^ century, when the responses to the rise of social- 
j sm the Paris Conunune, and the accumulation crisis of 1873 were the "Scramble for 
Africa" and the simultaneous creation in Europe of the nuclear family, centered on the 
economic dependence of women to men — following the expulsion of women from the 
waged work-place.This is also what is happening today, as a new global expansion of the 
labor-market is attempting to set back the clock with respect to the anti-colonial struggle, 
and the struggles of other rebel subjects — students, feminists, blue collar workers — who, 
in die 1960s and 1970s, undermined the sexual and international division oflabor. 

It is not surprising, then, iflarge-scale violence and enslavement have been on the 
agenda, as they were in the period of the "transition," with the difference that today the 
conquistadors are the officers of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, 
who are still preaching the worth of a penny to the same populations which the domi¬ 
nant world powers have for centuries robbed and pauperized. Once again, much of the 
violence unleashed is directed against women, for in the age of the computer, the con¬ 
quest of the female body is still a precondition for the accumulation oflabor and wealth, 
as demonstrated by the institutional investment in the development of new reproduc¬ 
tive technologies that, more than ever, reduce women to wombs. 

Also the "feminization of poverty" that has accompanied die spread of globaliza¬ 
tion acquires a new significance when we recall that this was the first effect of the devel¬ 
opment of capitalism on the lives of women. 

Indeed, the political lesson that we can learn from Caliban and the Witch is that cap¬ 
italism, as a social-economic system, is necessarily committed to racism and sexism. For 
capitalism mustjustify and mystify the contradictions built into its social relations — the 
promise of freedom vs. the reality of widespread coercion, and the promise of prosper¬ 
ity vs. the reality of widespread penury — by denigrating the "nature" of those it exploits: 
women, colonial subjects, the descendants of African slaves, the inunigrants displaced by 
globalization. 

At the core of capitalism there is not only the symbiotic relation between waged- 
contractual labor and enslavement but, together with it, the dialectics of accumulation 
and destruction of labor-power, for which women have paid the highest cost, with their 
bodies, their work, their lives. 

It is impossible therefore to associate capitalism with any form of liberation or 
attribute the longevity of the system to its capacity to satisfy human needs. If capitalism 
has been able to reproduce itself it is only because of the web of inequalities that it has 
built into the body of the world proletariat, and because of its capacity to globalize 
exploitation.This process is still unfolding under our eyes, as it has for the last 500 years. 

The difference is that today the resistance to it has also achieved a global dimension. 


17 



Endnotes 


1. The study of the transition to capitalism has a long history, which not accidentally 
coincides with that of the main political movements of this century. Marxist histo¬ 
rians such as Maurice Dobb, Rodney Hilton, Christopher Hill revisited the “tran¬ 
sition’ 1 in the 1940s and 1950s, in the wake of the debates generated by the consol¬ 
idation of the Soviet Union, the rise of new socialist states in Europe and Asia, and 
what at the time appeared as an impending capitalist crisis.The “transition” was again 
revisited in the 1960s byTliitdWorldist theorists (Samir Amin, Andre Gunder Frank), 
in the context of the contemporary debates over neo-colonialism, “underdevelop¬ 
ment,” and the “unequal exchange”between the “First” and the “Third World” 

2. These two realities, in my analysis, are closely connected, since in capitalism repro¬ 
ducing workers on a generational basis and regenerating daily their capacity to work 
has become “women's labor,” though mystified, because of itc un-waged condition, 
as a personal service and even a natural resource. 

3. Not surprisingly, a valorization of the body has been present in nearly all the liter¬ 
ature of“second wave” 20th-century feminism, as it has characterized the literature 
produced by the anti-colonial revolt and by the descendants of the enslaved 
Africans. On this ground,across great geographic and cultural boundaries, Virginia 
Woolfs A Room of One's Own (1929) anticipates Aime Cesaire s Return to the Natii/e 
Land (1938), when she mockingly scolds her female audience and, behind it, a 
broader female world, for not having managed to produce anything but children. 

“Young women, I would say ... [y]ou have never made a discovery of any sort 
of importance. You have never shaken an empire or lead an army into battle. The 
plays of Shakespeare are not by you.... What is your excuse? It is all very well for 
you to say, pointing to the streets and squares and forests of the globe swarming 
with black and white and coffee-colored inhabitants... we have had other work on 
our hands. Without our doing, those seas would be unsailed and those fertile lands 
a desert. We have borne and bred and washed and taught, perhaps to the age of six 
or seven years, the one thousand six hundred and twenty-three million human 
beings who are, according to statistics, at present in existence, and that, allowing that 
some had help, takes time” (Woolf, 1929: 112) 

This capacity to subvert the degraded image of femininity, which has been con¬ 
structed through the identification of women with nature, matter, and corporeal¬ 
ity, is the power of the feminist “discourse on the body,” that tries to unbury what 
male control of our corporeal reality has suffocated. It is an illusion, however, to 
conceive of women's liberation as a “return to the body” If the female body — as 
I argue in this work — is a signifier for a field of reproductive activities that have 
been appropriated by men and the state, and turned into an instrument for the pro¬ 
duction of labor-power (with all that this entails in terms of sexual rules and regu¬ 
lations, aesthetic canons, and punishments), then the body is die site of a funda¬ 
mental alienation that can be overcome only with the end of the work-discipline 
which defines it. 


18 



This thesis holds true for men as well. Marx’s portrait of the worker who feels 
at home only in his bodily functions already intuited this fact. Marx, however, never 
conveyed the magnitude of the attack to which the male body was subjected with 
the advent of capitalism. Ironically,like Michel Foucault, Marx too stressed the pro¬ 
ductivity of the power to which workers are subordinated — a productivity that 
becomes for him the condition for the workers’ future mastery of society. Marx did 
not see that the development of workers’ industrial powers was at the cost of the 
underdevelopment of their powers as social individuals, although he recognized that 
workers in capitalist society become so alienated from their labor, from their rela¬ 
tions with others, and die products of their work as to become dominated by them 
as if by an alien force. 

4 Braidotti (1991) 219. For a discussion of feminist thought on the body, see Ariel 
Salleh’s EcoFeminism as Politics (1997), especially Cliapters 3 through 5; and Rosi 
Braidotti s Patterns of Dissonance (1991) especially the section entided “Repossessing 
the Body: A Timely Project” (pp. 219-224). 

5 I am referring here to the project of ecriturefeminine, a literary theory and move¬ 
ment that developed in France in the 1970s, among feminist students of Lacanian 
psychoanalysis, who were seeking to create a language expressing the specificity of 
the female body and female subjectivity (Braidotti, op. cit.). 


19 




Woman carrying a tnisket of spinach. Women in the Middle Ages often kept 
gardens, udiere they grew medical herbs. Their knowledge of the properties of 
herbs is one of the secrets they handed doitm from generation to generation. 
Italian, c 1385. 



All the World Needs a Jolt 

Social Movements and Political Crisis in Medieval Europe 


All the world must suffer a big jolt.There will be such a game that the 
ungodly will be thrown off their seats, and the downtrodden will rise. 

—Thomas Miintzer, x * 

Open Denial of the False Belief of the Godless World 
on the Testimony of the Gospel of Luke, Presented to Miserable and 
Pitiful Christendom in Memory of its Error, 1524 

There is no denying that, after centuries of struggle, exploitation 
does continue to exist. Only its form has changed.The surplus labor 
extracted here and there by the masters of todays world is not 
smaller in proportion to the total amount of labor than the surplus 
extracted long ago. But the change in the conditions of exploitation 
is not in my view negligible....What is important is the history, the 
striving for liberation.,,, 

—Pierre Dockes, Medieval Slavery and Liberation, 1982 


| Introduction 

A histoiy of women and reproduction in the “transition to capitalism” must begin with the 
struggles that the European medieval proletariat — small peasants, artisans, day laborers — 
vva 8 e d agiinst feudal power in all its forms. Only if we evoke diese struggles, widi their rich 
c *igo of demands, social and political aspirations, and antagonistic practices, can we under- 
stand the role that women had in die crisis of feudalism, and why their power had to be 
c * e * l rc>yed for capitalism to develop, as it was by the thiee-century-long persecution of the 
itches. From the vantage point of this struggle, we can also see that capitalism was not the 
Product of an evolutionary development bringing forth economic foices that were maturing 
m the womb of die old order. Capitalism was die response of die feudal loids, die patrician 
merchants, the bishops and popes, to a centuries-long social conflict that, in the end, shook 
their power, and truly gave "all die world a big jolt.” Capitalism was the counter-revolution 
that destroyed the possibilities that had emerged from die anti-feudal struggle — possibilities 


21 


which, if realized, might have spared us the immense destruction oflives and the natural envi¬ 
ronment chat has marked the advance of capitalist relations woddwide.Tliis much must be 
stressed, for the belief that capitalism “evolved” from feudalism and represents a higher form 
of social life has not yet been dispelled. 

How die history of women intersects with that of capitalist development can¬ 
not be grasped, however, if we concern ourselves only with the classic terrains of class 
struggle — labor services, wage rates, rents and tithes — and ignore the new visions of 
social life and the transformation of gender relations which these conflicts produced. 
These were not negligible. It is in the course of the anti-feudal struggle that we find 
the first evidence in European history of a grassroots womens movement opposed to 
the established order and contributing to the construction of alternative models of 
communal life. The struggle against feudal power also produced the first organized 
attempts to challenge the dominant sexual norms and establish more egalitarian rela¬ 
tions between women and men. Combined with the refusal of bonded labor and com¬ 
mercial relations, these conscious forms of social transgression constructed a powerful 
alternative not only to feudalism but to the capitalist order by which feudalism was 
replaced, demonstrating that another world was possible, and urging us to question why 
it was not realized.This chapter searches for some answers to this question, while exam¬ 
ining how the relations between women and men and the reproduction of labor-power 
were redefined in oppositon to feudal rule. 

The social struggles of the Middle Ages must also be remembered because they 
wrote a new chapter in the history of liberation. At their best, they called for an egalitar¬ 
ian social order based upon the sharing of wealth and the refusal of hierarchies and author¬ 
itarian rule.These were to remain utopias. Instead of the heavenly kingdom, whose advent 
was prophesied in the preaching of the heretics and millenarian movements, what issued 
from the demise of feudalism were disease, war, famine, and death — the four horsemen 
of the Apocalypse, as represented in Albrecht Diirers famous print — true harbingers of 
the new capitalist era. Nevertheless, the attempts that the medieval proletariat made to 
‘‘turn the world upside down” must be reckoned with; for despite their defeat, they put 
the feudal system into crisis and, in their time, they were “genuinely revolutionary,” as 
they could not have succeeded without “a radical reshaping of the social order” (Hilton, 
1973:223-4). Reading the “transition” from the viewpoint of the anti-feudal struggle of 
the Middle Ages also helps us to reconstruct the social dynamics that lay in the back- ( 
ground of the English Enclosures and the conquest of the Americas, and above all unearth 
some of the reasons why in the 16^i and 17 th centuries the extermination ofthe “witches,” 
and the extension of state control over every aspect of reproduction, became the cor¬ 
nerstones of primitive accumulation. 


| Serfdom as a Class Relation 

While the anti-feudal struggles of the Middle Ages cast some light on the development 
of capitalist relations, their own political significance will remain hidden unless we frame 
them in the broader context of the history of serfdom, which was the dominant class 
relation in feudal society and, until the 14 th century, the focus of anti-feudal struggle. 


22 





I 



Farmers preparing the soil for sowing. Access to Lind mis the foundation of 
the power of the serfs . English miniature, ca. 1340. 


Serfdom developed in Europe, between the 5 lh and 7 th centuries A.D., in response 
to the breakdown of the slave system, on which the economy of imperial Rome had 
been built. It was the result of two related phenomena. By the 4 th century, in the Roman 
territories and the new Germanic states, the landlords had to grant the slaves the right 
to have a plot of land and a family of their own, in order to stem their revolts, and pre¬ 
vent their flight to the "bush" where maroon communities were forming at the mar¬ 
gins of the empire. 1 At the same time, the landlords began to subjugate the free peas¬ 
ants, who, ruined by the expansion of slave-labor and later the Germanic invasions, 
turned to the lords for protection, although at the cost of their independence. Thus, 
while slavery was never completely abolished, a new class relation developed that 
homogenized the conditions of former slaves and free agricultural workers (Dockes 
1982:151), placing all the peasantry in a subordinate condition, so that for three cen¬ 
turies (from the 9 lh to the 11 th ), "peasant" (rustic us , vi 11 anus) would be synonymous with 
"serf" (servus) (Pirenne, 1956:63). 

As a work relation and a juridical status, serfdom was an enormous burden.The serfs 
were bonded to the landlords; their persons and possessions were their masters* property 
and their lives were ruled in every respect by the law of the manor. Nevertheless, serfdom 
redefined the class relation in terms more favorable to the workers. Serfdom marked the 
end of gang-labor, of life in the eigastulaj and a lessening of the atrocious punishments (the 
,ron collars, the burning, the crucifixions) on which slavery had relied. On the feudal 
estates, the serfs were subjected to the law of the lord, but their transgressions were judged 
on the basis of "customary" agreements and, in time, even of a peer-based jury system. 

The most important aspect of serfdom, from the viewpoint of the changes it intro¬ 
duced in the master-servant relation, is that it gave the serfs direct access to the means of 
their reproduction. In exchange for the work which they were bound to do on the lords* 


23 


land (the demesne), the serfs received a plot of land (mansus or hide) which they could use 
to support themselves, and pass down to their children 'Mike a real inheritance, by simply 
payinga succession due”(Boissonnade 1927:134).As Pierre Dockes points out in Medieval 
Slavery and Liberation (1982), this arrangement increased the serfs'autonomy and improved 
their living conditions, as they could now dedicate more time to their reproduction and 
negotiate the extent of their obligations, instead of being treated like chattel subject to 
an unconditional rule. Most important, having the effective use and possession of a plot 
of land meant that the serfs could always support themselves and, even at the peak of their 
confrontations with the lords, they could not easily be forced to bend because of the fear 
of starvation. True, the lord could throw recalcitrant serfs off the land, but this was rarely 
done, given the difficulty of recruiting new laborers in a fairiy closed economy and the 
collective nature of peasant struggles. This is why — as Marx noted — on die feudal 
manor, the exploitation of labor always depended on the direct use of force. 3 

The experience of self-reliance which the peasants gained from having access to 
land also had a political and ideological potential. In time, the serfs began to look at the 
land they occupied as their own, and to view as intolerable the restrictions that the aris¬ 
tocracy imposed on their freedom. “Land to the tillers”— the demand that has echoed 
through the 20 th century, from the Mexican and Russian revolutions to the contempo¬ 
rary struggles against land privatization — is a battle cry which the medieval serfs would 
have certainly recognized as their own. But the strength of the “villeins” stemmed from 
the fact diat access to land was a reality for them. 

With the use of land also came the use of the “commons”— meadows, forests, 
lakes, wild pastures — that provided crucial resources for the peasant economy (wood 
for fuel, timber for building, fishponds, grazing grounds for animals) and fostered com¬ 
munity cohesion and cooperation (Birrell 1987:23). In Northern Italy, control over 
these resources even provided the basis for the development of communal self-admin¬ 
istrations (Hilton 1973: 76). So important were the “commons” in the political econ¬ 
omy and struggles of the medieval rural population that their memory still excites our 
imagination, projecting the vision of a world where goods can be shared and solidarity, 
rather than desire for self-aggrandizement, can be the substance of social relations. 4 

The medieval servile community fell short of these goals, and should not be ide¬ 
alized as an example of communalism. In fact, its example reminds us that neither“com- 
munalism” nor “localism” can be a guarantee of egalitarian relations unless the com- ' 
munity controls its means of subsistence and all its members have equal access to them. 
This was not the case with the serfs on the feudal manors. Despite die prevalence of col¬ 
lective forms of work and collective “contracts” with the landlords, and despite the local 
character of the peasant economy, the medieval village was not a community of equals. 
As established by a vast documentation coming from every country of Western Europe, 
there were many social differences within the peasantry diat separated free peasants and 
diose of servile status, rich and poor peasants, peasants with secure land tenure and land¬ 
less laborers working for a wage on the lord’s demesne, and women and men.5 

Land was usually given to men and transmitted dirough the male lineage, though 
there were many cases of women who inherited it and managed it in their name. 6 
Women were also excluded from the offices to which die better-off male peasants were 
appointed, and, to all effects, they had a second-class status (Bennett 1988:18-29; Shahar 


24 


[ 9 # 3 )-This perhaps is why their names are rarely mentioned in the manorial registers, 
except for those of the courts in which the serfs* transgressions were recorded. 
Nevertheless, female serfs were less dependent on their male kin, less differentiated from 
them physically, socially, and psychologically, and were less subservient to men’s needs 
th a n ‘Tree” women were to be later in capitalist society. 

Women’s dependence on men within the servile community was limited by the 
f aC t that over the authority of their husbands and fathers prevailed that of the lords, who 
claimed possession of the serfs* persons and property, and tried to control every aspect of 
their lives, from work to marriage and sexual behavior. 

It was the lord who commanded womens work and social relations, deciding, 
for instance, whether a widow should remarry and who should be her spouse, in some 
areas even claiming the ins priniae noctis — the right to sleep with a serfs wife on her 
wedding night.The authority of male serfs over their female relatives was further lim¬ 
ited by the fact that the land was generally given to the family unit, and women not 
only worked on it but could dispose of the products of their labor, and did not have 
to depend on their husbands for support. The partnership of the wife in land posses¬ 
sion was so well understood in England that *‘[w]hen a villein couple married it was 
common for the man to come and turn the land back to the lord, taking it again in 
both his name and that of his wife*’ (Hanawalt 1986b: 155)- 7 Furthermore, since work 
on the servile farm was organized on a subsistence basis, the sexual division of labor 
in it was less pronounced and less discriminating than in a capitalist farm. In the feu¬ 
dal village no social separation existed between the production of goods and the repro¬ 
duction of the work-force; all work contributed to the family’s sustenance. Women 
worked in the fields, in addition to raising children, cooking, washing, spinning, and 
keeping an herb garden; their domestic activities were not devalued and did not involve 
different social relations from those of men, as they would later, in a money-economy, 
when housework would cease to be viewed as real work. 

If we also take into account that in medieval society collective relations prevailed 
over familial ones, and most of the tasks that female serfs performed (washing, spinning, 
harvesting, and tending to animals on the commons) were done in cooperation with 
other women, we then realize that the sexual divison of labor, far from being a source 
of isolation, was a source of power and protection for women. It was the basis for an 
intense female sociality and solidarity that enabled women to stand up to men, despite 
the fact that the Church preached women’s submission to men, and Canonic Law sanc¬ 
tified the husband s right to beat his wife. 

The position of women on the feudal manor cannot be treated, however, as if it 
were a static reality. 8 For the power of women and their relations with men were, at all 
times, determined by the struggles which their communities fought against the land¬ 
lords, and the changes that these struggles produced in the master-servant relation. 


| The Struggle on the Commons 

% the end of the 14 th century, the revolt of the peasantry against the landlords had 
econie endemic, massified, and frequently armed. However, the organizational strength 


25 


that the peasants demonstrated in this period was the outcome of a long conflict that, 
more or less openly, ran through the Middle Ages. 

Contrary to the schoolbook portrait of feudal society as a static world, in which 
each estate accepted its designated place in the social order, the picture that emerges from 
a study of the feudal manor is rather that of relentless class struggle. 

As the records of the English manorial courts indicate, the medieval village was 
the theater of daily warfare (Hilton 1966: 154; Hilton, 1985: 158-59). At times, this 
reached moments of great tension, when the villagers killed the bailiff or attacked their 
lord s castle. Most frequently, however, it consisted of an endless litigation, by which the 
serfs tried to limit the abuses of the lords, fix their “burdens/ 1 and reduce the many trib- 
utes which they owed them in exchange for the use of the land (Bennett, 1967; Coulton, 
1955: 35-91; Hanawalt 1986a: 32-35). 

The main objective of the serfs was to keep hold of their surplus-labor and prod- 
ucts and broaden the sphere of their economic and juridical rights. These two aspects of 
servile struggle were closely connected, as many obligations issued from the serfs’ legal sta- 
tus.Thus, in 13*-century England, both on the lay and ecclesiastical estates, male peasants 
were frequently fined for claiming that they were not serfs but free men, a challenge that 
could result in a bitter litigation .pursued even by appeal to the royal court (Hanawalt 1986a: 
31). Peasants were also fined for refusing to bake their bread at the oven of the lords, or 
grind their grain, or olives at their mills, which allowed them to avoid the onerous taxes 
that the lords imposed for the use of these facilities (Bennett 1967:130-31 ;Dockes 1982: 
176-79). However, the most important terrain of servile struggle was the work that, on 
certain days of the week, the serfs had to carry out on the land of the lords. These “labor 
services’ 1 were the burdens that most immediately affected the serfs 1 lives and, through the 
13th century, they were the central issue in the servile struggle for freedom. 9 

The serfs’ attitude towards the corvci , as labor services were also called, transpires 
through the entries in the books of the manorial courts, where the penalties imposed on 
the tenants were recorded. By the mid 13* century, the evidence speaks for a “massive 
wididrawal’ 1 of labor (Hilton 1985:130-31).The tenants would neither go nor send their 
children to work on the land of the lords when summoned at harvest time, J 0 or they 
would go to the fields too late, so that the crops would spoil, or they worked sloppily, tak¬ 
ing long breaks and generally maintaining an insubordinate attitude. Hence the lords’ need 
for consunt and close supervision and vigilance, as evinced by this recommendation: 

Let the bailiff and the messor, be all the time with the ploughmen, to 
see that they do their work well and thoroughly, and at the end of the 
day see how much they have done....And because customary servants 
neglect their work it is necessary to guard against their fraud; further 
it is necessary that they are overseen often; and beside the bailiff must 
oversee all, that they work well and if they do not do well, let them 
be reproved (Bennett 1967: 113). 

A similar situation is portrayed in Piers Plowman (c. 1362-70), William Langland s 
allegorical poem, where in one scene the laborers, who had been busy in the morning* 


26 



massed the afternoon sitting and singing and, in another one, idle people flocked in at 
h |rvest time seeking "no deed to do, but to drink and to sleep" (Coulton 1955:87). 

Also the obligation to provide military services at wartime was stiongly resisted. As 


y\ S Bemiett reports, force was always needed to recruit in the English villages, and a 
medieval commander rarely managed to keep his men at war, for those who enlisted 
J^serted at the first opportunity, after pocketing their pay. Exemplary are the pay-rolls of 
c he Scottish campaign of the year 1300, which indicate that while 16,000 recruits had been 
ordered to enlist in June, by nud July only 7,600 could be mustered and this "was the crest 
ofthe wave-., by August little more than 3,000 remained”As a result, increasingly the king 
had to rely on pardoned criminals and outlaws to bolster his army (Bennett 1967:123-25). 


Another source of conflict was the use of non-cultivated lands, including woods, 
lakes,lulls, which the serfs considered a collective property." {W]e can go to the woods..." 
— the serfs declared in a mid 12 lh -century English chronicle —"and take what we want, 
take fish from the fish pond, and game from the forests; we’ll have our will in the woods, 
the waters and the meadows" (Hilton, 1973: 71). 

Still, the most bitter struggles were those against the laxes and burdens that issued 
from die jurisdictional power of the nobility. These included the manomorta (a tax which 
the lord levied when a serf died), the mercheta (a tax on marriage that increased when a serf 
married someone from another manor), the heriot (an inheritance tax paid by the heir of 
a deceased serf for the right to gain entry to his holding, usually consisting of the best beast 
of the deceased), and, worst of all, the tallage , a sum of money arbitrarily decided, that the 
lords could exact at will. Last but not least was the tithe , a tenth of the peasant income, diat 
was exacted by the clergy, but usually collected by the lords in the clergy’s name. 

Together with the labor service, these taxes "against nature and freedom" were the 
most resented among the feudal dues, for not being compensated by any allotments of land 
or other benefits, they revealed all the arbitrariness of feudal power.Thus, they were stren¬ 
uously resisted. Typical was the attitude of the serfs of the monks of Dunstable who, in 
1299, declared that "they would rather go down to hell than be beaten in this matter of 
tallage," and,"after much controversy," they bought their freedom from it (Bennett, 1967: 
139). Similarly, in 1280, the serfs of Hedon,a village ofYorkshire,let it be understood that, 
if tire tallage was not abolished, they would rather go to live in the nearby towns of 
Revensered and Hull "which have good harbours growing daily, and no tallage" (ibid.: 141). 
These were no idle threats.The flight to the city or town 11 was a constant component of 
servile struggle, so that, again and again,on some English manors,"men are reported to be 
fugitives, and dwelling in the neighboring towns;and aldiough order is given diat they be 
brought back, the town continues to shelter them...." [ibid.: 295-96). 

To these forms of open confrontation we must add the manifold, invisible forms 
resistance, for which subjugated peasants have been famous in all times and places: 
foot dragging, dissimulation, false compliance, feigned ignorance, desertion, pilfering, 
sniu ggling, poaching...." (Scott 1989:5) These "everyday forms of resistance," stubbornly 
carried on over the years, without which no adequate account of class relations is pos¬ 
sible, were rife in the medieval village. 


This may explain the medculousness with which the servile burdens were speci- 
^ e d in the manorial records: 


27 



r 

For instance, [the manorial records) often do not say simply that a 
man must plow, sow and harrow one acre of the lords land. They say 
he must plow it with so many oxen as he has in his plow, harrow it 
with his own horse and sack.... Services (too) were remembered in 
minute detail....We must remember the cotmen of Elton who admit¬ 
ted that they were bound to stack the lords hay in his meadow and 
again in his barnyard, but maintained that they were not bound in 
custom to load it into carts to be carried from the first place to the 
second (Homans 1960: 272). 

In some areas of Germany, where the dues included yearly donations of eggs and 
poultry, tests of fitness were devised, in order to prevent the serfs from handing down to 
the lords the worst among their chickens: 

The hen (then) is placed in front of a fence or a gate; if frightened she 
has the strength to fly or scramble over, the bailiff' must accept her, 
she is fit. A gosling, again, must be accepted if it is mature enough to 
pluck grass without loosing its balance and sitting down ignomin- 
iously (Coulton 1955:74-75), 

Such minute regulations testify to the difficulty of enforcing the medieval “social 
contract,” and the variety of batdefields available to a combative tenant or village. Servile 
duties and rights were regulated by “customs,” but their interpretation too was an object 
of much dispute. The “invention of traditions” was a common practice in the con¬ 
frontation between landlords and peasants, as both would try to redefine them or for¬ 
get them, until a time came, towards the middle of the 13 th century, when the lords put 
them down in writing. 


| Liberty and Social Division 

Politically, the first outcome of the servile struggles was the concession to many villages 
(particularly in Northern Italy and Fiance) of “privileges” and “charters” that fixed the 
burdens and granted “an element of autonomy in the running of the village coniniu- 
nity”providing, at times, for true forms of local self-government. These charters stipu¬ 
lated the fines that were to be meted out by the manorial courts, and established rules for 
juridical proceedings, thus eliminating or reducing the possibility of arbitrary arrests and 
other abuses (Hilton 1973:75).They also lightened the serfs’ duty to enlist as soldiers and 
abolished or fixed the tallage; often they granted the “liberty” to “hold stallage,” that is to 
sell goods at the local market and, more rarely, the right to alienate land. Between 1177 
and 1350, in Loraine alone, 280 charters were conceded 

However, the most important resolution of the master-serf conflict was the com¬ 
mutation of labor services with money payments (money rents, money tuxes) that placed 
the feudal relation on a more contractual basis. With this momentous development, serf- 


28 



dom poetically ended, but, like many workers’ 44 victories” wluch only in part satisfy the 
or iginal demands, conunutation too co-opted the goals of the struggle, functioning as a 
means of social division and contributing to the disintegration of the feudal village. 

To the well-to-do peasants who, possessing large tracts of land, could earn enough 
money to “buy their blood”and employ other laborers, conunutation must have appeared 
as a great step on the road to economic and personal independence; for the lords less¬ 
ened their control over their tenants when they no longer depended directly on their 
work But die majority of poorer peasants — who possessed only a few acres of land 
barely sufficient for their survival — lost even the little they had. Compelled to pay their 
dues in money, they went into chronic debt, borrowing against future harvest, a process 
that eventually caused many to lose their land. As a result, by the 13«*> century, when com¬ 
mutations spread throughout Western Europe, social divisions in the rural areas deep¬ 
ened,and part of the peasantry underwent a process of proletarianization. As Bronislaw 
Geremek writes: 

Thirteenth-century documents contain increasing amounts of infor¬ 
mation about “landless” peasants who manage to eke out a living on 
the margins of village life by tending to flocks.... One finds increasing 
numbers of'gardeners,” landless or almost landless peasants who earned 
their living by hiring out their services.... In Southern France the 
“ brassiers” lived entirely by “selling” the strength of their arms (bras) and 
hiring themselves out to richer peasants or landed gentry. From die 
beginning of the fourteenth century the tax registers show a marked 
increase in the number of impoverished peasants, who appear in these 
documents as “indigents,” “poor men” or even “beggards” (Geremek 
1994:56).>2 

The conunutation to money-rent had two other negative consequences. First, it 
made it more difficult for the producers to measure their exploitation, because as soon as 
the labor-services were conunuted into money paymen*, the peasants could no longer 
differentiate between the work that they did for themselves and that which they did for 
the landlords. Commutation also made it possible for the now-free tenants to employ and 
exploit other workers, so that, “in a further development,” it promoted “the growth of 
independent peasant property,” turning “the old self-employing possessors of the land” 
into a capitalist tenant (Marx 1909:Vol. Ill, 924 ff). 

The monetization o feconomic life, then, did not benefit all people, contrary t o what 
is claimed by supporters of the market economy, who welcome it as the Creadon of a new 
c °mmon” replacing land-bondage and introducing in social life the criteria of objectiv- 
,C V> rationality, and even personal freedom (Sinunel 1900). With the spread of monetary 
relations, values certainly chaiiged, even among the clergy, who began to reconsider the 
Aristotelian doctrine of the “sterility of money” (Kaye 1998) and, not coincidentally, to 
its views concerning the redeeming quality of charity to the poor. But their effect 
Were destructive and divisive. Money and the market began to split the peasantry by trans¬ 
acting income differences into class differences, and by producing a mass of poor people 
Wh ° could survive only on the basis of periodic donations (Geremek 1994:56-62).To the 


29 


>v ” 


growing influence of money we must also attribute the systematic attack to which Jews 
were subjected, starting in the 12* century, and the steady deterioration of their legal and 
social status in the same period.There is, in fact, a revealing correlation between the dis¬ 
placement of the Jews by Christian competitors, as moneylenders to Kings, popes and the 
higher clergy, and the new discriminatory rules (e.g„ the wearing of distinctive clothing) 
that were adopted by the clergy against them, as well as their expulsion from England and 
France. Degraded by the Church, further separated by the Christian population, and forced 
to confine their moneylending (one of the few occupations available to them) to the vil- 
lage level, the Jews became an easy target for indebted peasants, who often vented on them 
their anger against the rich (Barber 1992:76). 

Women, too, in all classes, were most negatively affected by the increasing com¬ 
mercialization of life, for their access to property and income was further reduced by it. 
In the Italian commercial towns, women lost their right to inherit a third of their hus¬ 
bands’property (the tertia). In the rural areas, they were further excluded from land pos¬ 
session, especially when single or widowed. As a result, by the 13^ century, they were 
leading the movement away from the country, being the most numerous among the rural 
immigrants to the towns (Hilton 1985: 212), and by the 15 c h century, women formed a 
large percentage of the population of the cities. Here, most of them lived in poor con¬ 
ditions, holding low-paid jobs as maids, hucksters, retail tiaders (of ten fined for lack of a 
license), spinsters, members of the lower guilds, and prostitutes . 13 However, living in the 
urban centers, among the most combative part of the medieval population, gave them a 
new social autonomy. City laws did not free women; few could afford to buy the “city 



Female masons constructing a city 
umIL French, 15 th century. 


30 






^eedom ” & privileges connected with city 1 fe were called. But in the city,, women's 
bordination to male tutelage was reduced, as they could now live alone, or with their 
children as heads of families, or could form new communities, often sharing their 
dwellings with other women. While usually the poorest members of urban society, in 
time women gained access to many occupations that later would be considered male 
In the medieval towns, women worked as smiths, butchers, bakers,candlestick mak- 
ers nat-niakers, ale-brewers, wool-carders, and retailers (Shahar 1983: 189-200; King 
]99l: 64 - 67 ).“In Frankfurt, there were approximately 200 occupations in which women 
participated between 1300 and 1500” (Williams and Echols 2000: 53). In England, sev¬ 
enty-^ 0 out of eighty-five guilds included women among their members. Some guilds, 
including silk-making, were dominated by them; in others, female employment was as 
high as that of men. 1 * By the 14 th century, women were also becoming schoolteachers 
as well as doctors and surgeons, and were beginning to compete with university-trained 
men, gaining at times a high reputation. Sixteen female doctors — among them several 
Jewish women specialized in surgery or eye therapy — were hired in the 14 th century 
by the municipality of Frankf urt which, like other city administrations, offered its pop¬ 
ulation a system of public healdi-care. Female doctors, as well as midwives or sagefemmes, y 
were dominant in obstetrics, either in die pay of city governments or supporting them¬ 
selves with the compensation they received from dieir patients. After the Caesarian cut 
was introduced in the 13* century, female obstetrics were the only ones who practiced 
it (Opitz 1996:370-71). 

As women gained more autonomy, their presence in social life began to be recorded 
more frequendy: in the sermons of the priests who scolded their indiscipline (Casagrande 
1978); in the records of the tribunals where they went to denounce those who abused them 
(S. Colin 1981); in the city ordinances regulating prostitution (Henriques 1966); among 
the thousands of non-combatants who followed the armies (Hacker 1981); and above all, 
in the new popular movements, especially that of the heretics. 

We will see later the role that women played in the heretic movements. Here suf¬ 
fice it to say that, in response to the new female independence, we see the beginning of 
a misogynous backlash most evident in the satires of the fabliaux, where we find the first 
traces of what historians have defined as “the struggle for the breeches ” 



| The Millenarian and the Heretic Movements 

h was the growing landless proletariat which emerged in the wake of commutation that 
^ the protagonist (in the 12th and 13* centuries) of the millenarian movements, in which 
We find, beside impoverished peasants, all the wretched of feudal society: prostitutes, 
defrocked priests, urban and rural day laborers (N.Cohn 1970).The traces of the millenar- 
■ans’ brief apparition on the liiseorical scene are scanty, and they tell us a story of short-lived 
revolts, anc j Q f a peasantry brutalized by poverty and by the clergy’s inflanumtory preach- 
j n g that accompanied the bundling of the Crusades. The significance of their rebellion, 
Wever * is tliat it inaugurated a new type of struggle, already projected beyond the confines 
I me manor and stimulated by aspirations to total change. Not surprisingly, the rise of mil- 
ar, amsm was accompanied by the spread of ptophecies and apocalyptic visions announc- 


31 



J 


ing the end of the world and the imminence of die Lastjudgment, “not as visions of a more 
or less distant future to be awaited, but as impending events in which many now living could 
take active part'* (Hilton 1973:223). 

A typical example of millenarianism was the movement sparked by the appear¬ 
ance of the Pseudo Baldwin in Flanders in 1224-25.The man, a hermit, had claimed to 
be the popular Baldwin IX who had been killed in Constantinople in 1204.This could 
not be proven, but his promise of a new world provoked a civil war in which the Flemish 
textile workers became his most ardent supporters (Nicholas 1992:155).These poor peo¬ 
ple (weavers, fullers) closed ranks around him, presumably convinced that he was going 
to give them silver and gold and full social reform (Volpe 1922: 298-9). Similar to this 
movement were those of the Pastoreaux (shepherds) — peasants and uiban workers who 
swept through Northern France around 1251, burning and pillaging the houses of the 
rich, demanding a betterment of their condition 15 — and the movement of the 
Flagellants that, starting from Umbria (Italy), spread in several countries in 1260, the date 
when, according to the prophecy of the abbot Joachim da Flora, the world was supposed 
to end (Russell 1972a: 137). 

It was not the millenarian movement, however, but popular heresy that best 
expressed the search by die medieval proletariat for a concrete alternative to feudal rela¬ 
tions and its resistance to the growing money-economy. 

Heresy and millenarianism are often treated as one subject, but while a precise dis¬ 
tinction cannot be drawn, there are significant differences between the two movement. 

The millenarian movements were spontaneous, without an organizational struc¬ 
ture or program. Usually a specific event or a charismatic individual spurred them on, 



A procession of flagellants during the 
Black Death. 


32 






t as soon as they were met by force they collapsed. By contrast, the heretic move- 
lt was a conscious attempt to create a new society. The main heretical sects had a 
iai program that also reinterpreted the religious tradition, and they were well-organ- 
ze d from the viewpoint of their reproduction, the dissemination of their ideas, and 
^ven their self-defense. Not surprisingly, they had a long duration, despite the extreme 
persecution to which they were subjected, and they played a crucial role in the anti- 
feudal struggle. 

Today, little is known about the many heretic sects (Cathars, Waldenses, The Poor 
of Lyon, Spirituals, Apostolics) that for more than three centuries flourished among the 
“lower classes” in Italy, France, the Flanders, and Germany, in what undoubtedly was the 
most important opposition movement of the Middle Ages (Werner 1974; Lambert 
l977).This is largely due to the ferocity with which they were persecuted by the Church, 
which spared no effort to erase every trace of their doctrines. Crusades — like the one 
moved against the Albigensians 16 — were called against the heretics, as they were called 
to liberate the Holy Land from the “infidels.” By the thousands, heretics were burned at 
the stake, and to eradicate their presence the Pope created one of the most perverse insti¬ 
tutions ever recorded in the history of state repression: the Holy Inquisition (Vauchez 
1990: 162-70). 17 

Nevertheless, as Charles H. Lea (among others) has shown, in his monumental 
history of the persecution of heresy, even on the basis of the limited records available 
to us, we can form an impressive picture of their activities and creeds and the role of 
heretical resistance in the anti-feudal struggle (Lea 1888). 

Although influenced by Eastern religions brought to Europe by merchants and 
crusaders, popular heresy was less a deviation from the orthodox doctrine than a protest 
movement, aspiring to a radical democratization of social life. 1 # Heresy was the equiva¬ 
lent of “liberation theology” for the medieval proletariat. It gave a frame to peoples’ 
demands for spiritual renewal and social justice, challenging both the Church and secu¬ 
lar authority by appeal to a liigher truth. It denounced social hierarchies, private prop¬ 
erty and the accumulation of wealth, and it disseminated among the people a new, rev¬ 
olutionary conception of society that, for the first time in the Middle Ages, redefined 
every aspect of daily life (work, property, sexual reproduction, and the position of 
women), posing the question of emancipation in truly universal terms. 

The heretic movement also provided an alternative community structure that had 
an international dimension, enabling the members of the sects to lead a more autonomous 
life,and to benefit from a wide support network made of contacts,schools, and safe-houses 
upon which they could rely for help and inspiration in times of need. Indeed, it is no 
exaggeration to say that the heretic movement was the first “proletarian international”— 
suc h was the reach of the sects (pardculaily the Cathars and Waldenses) and the links they 
established ai non g themselves with the help of commercial fairs, pilgrimages, and the con- 
Stant border-crossing of refugees generated by the persecution. 

At the root of popular heresy was the belief that god no longer spoke through 
e c ^ er gYi because of its greed, corruption and scandalous behavior. Thus the two major 

“true churches ” However, the heretics’ challenge was 
o challenge the Church was to confront at once the 
,the biggest landowner in Europe, and one of the insti- 


presented themselves as the 
a political one, since t 
e °logical pillar of feudal power 


33 


tutions most responsible for the daily exploitation of the peasantry. By the 11‘h century; 
the Church had become a despotic power that used its alleged divine investiture to gov¬ 
ern with an iron 6st and 611 its coffers by endless means of extortion. Selling absolu¬ 
tions, indulgences and religious offices, calling the faithful to church only to preach to 
them the sanctity of the tithes, and making of all sacraments a market, were common 
practices firom the pope to the village priest, so much so that the corruption of the 
clergy became proverbial throughout Chrisbanity.Things degenerated to the point that 
the clergy would not bury the dead, baptize or grant absolution from sin unless it 
received some compensation. Even the communion became an occasion for a bargain, 
and “[i]f an unjust demand was resisted the recalcitrant was excommunicated, and then 
had to pay for reconciliation in addition to the original sum” (Lea 1961:11). 

In this context, the propagation of the heretical doctrines not only channeled the 
contempt that people felt for the clergy; it gave them confidence in their views and insti¬ 
gated their resistance to clerical exploitation. Taking the lead from the New Testament, 
the heretics taught that Christ had no property, and that if the Church wanted to regain 
its spiritual power it should divest itself from all its possessions.They also taught that the 
sacraments were not valid when administered by sinful priests, that the exterior forms of 
worship — buildings, images, symbols — should be discarded because only inner belief 
mattered. They also exhorted people not to pay the tithes, and denied the existence of 
Purgatory, whose invention had been for the clergy a source of lucre through paid masses 
and the sales of indulgences. 

In turn, the Church used the charge of heresy to attack every form of social and 
political insubordination. In 1377, when the cloth workers inYpres (Flanders) took arms 
against their employers, they were not only hanged as rebels but were burned by the 
Inquisition as heretics (N. Cohn 1970: 105). There are also records of female weavers 
being threatened with excommunication for not having delivered promptly the prod¬ 
uct of their work to the merchants or not having properly done their work (Volpe, 1971: 
31). In 1234, to punish his peasant tenants who refused to pay the tithes, the Bishop of 
Bremen called a crusade against them “as though they were heretics” (Lambert 1992: 
98). But heretics were persecuted also by the secular authorities, from the Emperor to 
the urban patricians, who realized that the heretic appeal to the “true religion” had sub¬ 
versive implications and questioned the foundations of their power. 

Heresy was as much a critique of social hierarchies and economic exploitation as 
it was a denunciation of clerical corruption. As Gioacchino Volpe points out, the rejec¬ 
tion of all forms of authority and a strong anti-commercial sentiment were common ele¬ 
ments among the sects. Many heretics shared the ideal of apostolic poverty 19 and the 
desire to return to the simple communal life that had characterized the primitive church- 
Some, like the Poor of Lyon and the Brethren of the Free Spirit, lived on donated alms. 
Others supported themselves by manual labor. 20 Still others experimented with “com¬ 
munism,” like the early Taborites in Bohemia, for whom the establishment of equality 
and communal ownership were as important as religious reform. 21 Of the Waldenses too 
an Inquisitor reported that “they avoid all forms of commerce to avoid lies, frauds and 
oaths,” and he described them as walking barefoot, clad in woolen garments, owning 
nothing and, like apostles, holding all things in common (Lambert 1992: 64).The social 
content of heresy, however, is best expressed in the words of John Ball, the intellectual 


34 



Peasants hang a monk who luts 
sold indulge ices. NikLms Manuel 
Deutseh , 1525 . 



leader of the English Peasant Rising of 1381, who denounced that “we are made in the 
image of God, but we are treated like beasts,” and added, “Nothing will go well in 
England... as long as there will be gendemen and villeins” (Dobson 1983: 371). 22 

The most influential among the heretical seels, the Cathars, also stand out as unique 
in the history of European social movements because of their abhorrence for war (includ¬ 
ing the Crusades), their condemnation of capital punishment (which provoked the 
Church’s first explicit pronouncement in support of the death penalty)23 and their toler¬ 
ance for other religions. Southern Fiance, their stronghold before the crusade against the 
Albigensians, “was a safe haven for Jews when anti-semitism in Europe was mounting; 
[here] a fusion of Cathar and Jewish thought produced the Cabbala, the tiadition ofjewish 
mysticism” (Spencer 1995b: 171).The Cathars also rejected marriage and procreation and 
were strict vegetarians, both because they refused to kill animals and because they wished 
to avoid any food, like eggs and meats, resulting from sexual generation. 

This negative attitude towards natality has been attributed to the influence exerted 
°n the Cathars by Eastern dualist sec* like the Paulicians — a sect of iconoclast who 
ejected procreation as the act by which the soul is entrapped in the material world 
(Erbstosser 1984:13-14) — and, above all, the Bogomils, who proselytized in the 10 h 
century among the peasantry of the Balkans. A popular movement “bom amidst peas- 
ants whose physical misery made conscious of the wickedness of things” (Spencer 1995b: 
15), the Bogomils preached that the visible world is the work of the devil (for in the 
Wor ld of God the good would be the first),and they refused to have children not to bring 
" ew slaves into this “land of tribulations,” as life on earth was called in one of their tracts 
Wakefield and Evans 1991: 457). 


35 




The influence of the Bogomils on the Cathars is well-established, 24 and it i$ 
likely that the Cathars* avoidance of marriage and procreation stemmed from a sinu 
ilar refusal of a life “degraded to mere survival*’ (Vaneigem 1998: 72), rather than from 
a “death-wish” or from contempt for life.This is suggested by the fact that the Cathars’ 
anti-natalism was not associated with a degraded conception of women and sexual¬ 
ity, as it is often the case with pliilosopliies that despise life and the body. Women had 
an important place in the sects. As for the Cathars* attitude toward sexuality, it seems 
that while the “perfected*’ abstained from intercourse, the other members were not 
expected to practice sexual abstinence, and some scorned the importance wliich the 
Church assigned to chastity, arguing that it implied an overvaluation of die body. 
Some heretics attributed a mystical value to the sexual act, even treating it like a sacra¬ 
ment ( Christerin ), and preached that practicing sex, rather than abstaining from it, was 
the best means to achieve a state of innocence. Thus, ironically, heretics were perse¬ 
cuted both as extreme ascetics and as libertines. 

The sexual creeds of the Cathars were obviously a sophisticated elaboration Q f 
themes developed through the encounter with Eastern heretical religions, but the pop¬ 
ularity they enjoyed and the influence they exercised on other heresies also speak of a 
wider experiential reality rooted in the conditions of marriage and reproduction in 
the Middle Ages. 

We know that in medieval society, due to the limited availability of land and the 
protectionist restrictions which the guilds placed on entrance into the crafts, neither 
for die peasants nor for the artisans was it possible or desirable to have many children, 
and, indeed, efforts were made by peasant and artisan communities to control the num¬ 
ber of children born among them. The most common mediod used to achieve this 
goal was the postponement of marriage, an event that, even among Orthodox 
Christians, came at a late age (if at all), the rule being“no land, no marriage” (Homans 
1960: 37-39). A large number of young people, therefore, had to practice sexual absti¬ 
nence or defy the Church’s ban on sex outside of wedlock, and we can imagine that 
the heretical rejection of procreation must have found some resonance among them. 
In other words, it is conceivable that in the sexual and reproductive codes of the 
heretics we may actually see the traces of a medieval attempt at birth control. This 
would explain why, when population growth became a major social concern, at a time 
of severe demographic crisis and labor shortage in the late 14 th century, heresy became 
associated with reproductive crimes, especially “sodomy,” infanticide, and abortion. 
This is not to suggest that the heretics* reproductive doctrines had a decisive demo¬ 
graphic impact; but rather, that for at least two centuries, a political climate was cre¬ 
ated in Italy, France, and Germany, whereby any form of contraception (including 
“sodomy,” i.e. anal sex) came to be associated with heresy.The threat which the sex¬ 
ual doctrines of the heretics posed for the orthodoxy must also be viewed in the con¬ 
text of the efforts which the Church made to establish its control over marriage and 
sexuality, which enabled it to place everyone — from the Emperor to the poorest peas¬ 
ant — under its scrutiny and disciplinary rule. 


36 



The Politicization of Sexuality 


Mary Condren has pointed out in The Serpent and the Goddess (1989), a study of 
the penetration of Christianity into Celtic Ireland, the Church’s attempt to regulate 
sexual behavior had a long history in Europe. From a very early period (after 
Christianity became a state religion in the 4 th century), the clergy recognized the 
power that sexual desire gave women over men, and persistently tried to exorcise it by 
identifying holiness with avoidance of women and sex. Expelling women from any 
moment of the liturgy and from the administration of the sacraments; trying to usurp 
women s life-giving, magical powers by adopting a feminine dress; and making sexu¬ 
ality an object of shame — all these were the means by which a patriarchal caste tried 
to break the power of women and erotic attraction. In this process, “sexuality was 
invested with a new significance.... [It] became a subject for confession, where the 
minutest details of one’s most intimate bodily functions became a topic for discussion” 
and where “the different aspects of sex were split apart into thought, word, intention, 
involuntary urges, and actual deeds of sex to form a science of sexuali ty” (Condren 
1989: 86—87). A privileged site for the reconstruction of the Church’s sexual canons 
are the Penitentials, the handbooks that, starting from the 7 th century, were issued as 
practical guides for the confessors. In the first volume of his History of Sexuality (1978), 
Foucault stresses the role that these handbooks played in the production of sex as dis¬ 
course and of a more polymorphous conception of sexuality in the 17 th century. But 
the Penitentials were already instrumental to the production of a new sexual discourse 
in the Middle Ages.These works demonstrate that the Church attempted to impose a 



Punishment for adultery. The lavas arv guided through the street tied to 
each other. From a 1296 manuscript from Toulouse, France. 


37 



true sexual catechism, minutely prescribing the positions permitted during intercourse I 
(actually only one was allowed), the days on which sex could be practiced, with whom ] 
it was permissible, and with whom forbidden. 

This sexual supervision escalated in the 12 th century when the Lateran Councils 
of 1123 and 1139 launched a new crusade against the common practice of clerical mar¬ 
riage and concubinage, 25 and declared marriage a sacrament, whose vows no power on 
earth could dissolve. At this time, the limitations imposed by the Penitendals on the sex¬ 
ual act were also reiterated 26 Then, forty years later, with the III Lateran Council of 
1179, the Church intensified its attack on “sodomy,” targeting at once gay people and 
non-procreative sex (Boswell 1981:277-86), and for the first time it condemned homo¬ 
sexuality (“the incontinence which is against nature”) (Spencer 1995a: 114). 

With the adoption of this repressive legislation sexuality was completely j 
politicized. We do not have yet the morbid obsession with which the Catholic 
Church later approached sexual matters. But already by the 12 th century we see the ! 
Church not only peeping into the bedroom of its flock, but making of sexuality a 
state matter.The unorthodox sexual choices of the heretics must also be seen, then, 
as an anti-authoritarian stand, an attempt the heretics made to wrench their bodies 
from the grip of the clergy. A clear example of this anti-clerical rebellion was the j 
rise, in the 13 th century, of new pantheist sects, like the Amalricians and the Brethren 
of the Free Spirit who, against the Church’s effort to control sexual behavior, 
preached that God is in all of us and, consequently, that it is impossible for us to sin. 


| Women and Heresy 

One of the most significant aspects of the heretic movement is the high status it assigned 
to women. As Gioacchino Volpe put it, in the Church women were nothing, but here 
they were considered equal; they had the same rights as men, and could enjoy a social 
life and mobility (wandering, preaching) that nowhere else was available to them in the 
Middle Ages (Volpe 1971: 20; Koch 1983: 247). In the heretical sects, above all among 
the Cathars and Waldenses, women had the right to administer the sacraments, preach, 
baptize and even acquire sacerdotal orders. It is reported that Wildes split from the ortho¬ 
doxy because his bishop refused to allow women to preach, and it is said of the Cathars 
that they worshipped a female figure, the Lady of rhought, that influenced Dante s con¬ 
ception of Beatrice (Taylor 1954: 100). The heretics also allowed women and men to 
share the same dwellings, even if they were not married, since they did not fear that this 
would necessarily lead to promiscuous behavior. Heretical women and men often lived! 
freely together, like brothers and sisters, as in the agapic communities of the early Church. 
Women also formed their own communities. A typical case was that of the Beguines, I 
laywomen from the urban middle class who lived together (especially in Germany and 
Flanders), supporting themselves with their labor, outside of male control and without 
submitting to monastic rule (McDonnell 1954; Neel 1989). 2 ? 

Not surprisingly, women are present in the history of heresy as in no other aspe<* 
of medieval life (Volpe 1971: 20). According to Gottfried Koch, already in the 10 th cen- 


38 




Heretic woman condemned to be 
burned. Women had a large presence 
in the heretical movemaU in every 
country. 


tury they formed a large part of the Bogomils. In the 11 th century, it was again women 
who gave life to the heretical movements in France and Italy.At this time female heretics 
came from the most humble ranks of the serfs, and diey constituted a true women’s move- 
ment developing widiin the frame of the different heretic groups (Koch 1983: 246-47). 
Female heretics are also present in the records of the Inquisition; of some we know diat 
they were burned, of others diat they were “walled in 1 ' for the rest of their lives. 

Can we say that this large female presence in the heretic sects was responsible for 
the heretics’ “sexual revolution”? Or should we assume diat the call for “free love” was a 
male ploy designed to gain easy access to women’s sexual favors? These questions are not 
easily answeredWe know, however, that women did try to control dieir reproductive func¬ 
tion, as references to abortion and the use of contraceptives by women are numerous in 
the Penitentials. Significandy — in view of the future criminalization of such practices dur¬ 
ing the witch-hunt — contraceptives were referred to as “sterility potions” or malefida 
(Noonan 1965: 155-61), and it was assumed that women were the ones who used them. 

In the early Middle Ages, the Church still looked upon these practices with a cer- 
tain indulgence, prompted by the recognition that women may wish to limit their births 
because of economic reasons. Thus, in the Decretum , written by Burchard, Bishop of 
Worms (circa 1010), after the ritual question — 

Have you done what some women are accustomed to do when they 
fornicate and wish to kill their offspring, act with their malefida , and 




their herbs so that they kill or cut the embryo, or, if they have not yet 
conceived, contrive that they do not conceive? (Noonan 1965:160) 

— it was stipulated that the guilty ones should do penance for ten years; but it was 
also observed that “it makes a big difference whether she is a poor little woman and 
acted on account of the difficulty of feeding, or whether she acted to conceal a crime 
of fornication” (ibid.). 

Things changed drastically, however, as soon as womens’ control over reproduce 
tion seemed to pose a threat to economic and social stability, as it did in the aftermath 
of the demographic catastrophe produced by the “Black Death,” the apocalyptic plague 
that, between 1347 and 1352, destroyed more than one third of the European popula¬ 
tion (Ziegler 1969: 230). 

We will see later what role this demographic disaster played in the “labor crisis” 
of the late Middle Ages. Here we can notice that, after the spread of the plague, the sex¬ 
ual aspects of heresy became more prominent in its persecution, grotesquely distorted 
in ways that anticipate the later representations of the witches’ Sabbat. By the mid-14* 
century the Inquisitors’ reports were no longer content with accusing the heretics of 
sodomy and sexual license. Now heretics were accused of animal worship, including 
the infamous barium sub cauda (the kiss under the tail), and of indulging in orgiastic rit¬ 
uals, night flights and child sacrifices (Russell 1972). The Inquisitors also reported the 
existence of a sect of devil-worshippers called Luciferans. Corresponding to this process, 
which marked the transition from the persecution of heresy to witch-hunting, the fig¬ 
ure of the heretic increasingly became that of a woman, so that, by the beginning of the 
15th century, the main target of the persecution against heretics became the witch. 

This was not the end of the heretic movement, however. Its final consummation 
came in 1533, with the attempt by the Anabaptists to set up a City of God in the German 
town of Munster. This was crushed with a blood bath, followed by a wave of merciless 
reprisals that affected proletarian struggles all over Europe (Po-chia Hsia 1988a: 51—69). 

Until then, neither the fierce persecution nor the demonization of heresy could 
prevent the dissemination of heretic beliefs. As Antonino di Stefano writes, excommu¬ 
nication, the confiscation of property, torture, death at the stake, the unleashing of cru¬ 
sades against heretics — none of these measures could undermine the “immense vital¬ 
ity and popularity” of the haeretica pravitatis (heretic evil) (di Stefano 1950:769). “There 
is not one commune,” wrote James de Vitry at the beginning of the 13 th century, “in 
which heresy does not have its supporters, its defenders and believers.” Even after the 
1215 crusade against the Albigensians, that destroyed the Cathars’ strongholds, heresy 
(together with Islam) remained the main enemy and threat the Church had to face. Its 
recruits came from all walks of life: the peasantry, the lower ranks of the clergy (who 
identified with the poor and brought to their struggles the language of the Gospel), the 
town burghers, and even the lesser nobility. But popular heresy was primarily a lower- 
class phenomenon. The environment in which it flourished was the rural and urban pro¬ 
letariat: peasants, cobblers, and cloth workers “to whom it preached equality, fomenting 
their spirit of revolt with prophetic and apocalyptic predictions” (ibid .: 776). 

We get a glimpse of the popularity of the heretics from the trials which the 
Inquisition was still conducting in the 1330s, in the Trento region (Northern Italy)* 


40 



• nst those who had given hospitality to the Apostolics, when their leader. Fra 
Ticino, had passed through the area thirty years before (Orioli 1993: 217-37). At the 
e of his coming, many doors had opened to give Docino and his followers shelter. 
Again, in 1304, when announcing the coming of a holy reign of poverty and love, Fra 
polcino set up a conununity among the mountains of the Vercellese (Piedmont), the 
local peasants, already in revolt against the Bishop ofVercelli, gave him their support 
/Mornese and Buratti 2000). For three years the Dolcinians resisted the crusades and 
blockade the Bishop mounted against them — with women in male attire fighting 
side by sic * e witb men * In tbe en( *’ the V were defeated only by hunger and by the over¬ 
whelming superiority of the forces the Church mobilized against them (Lea 1961: 
615-20; Hilton 1973: 108). On the day when the troops amassed by the Bishop of 
Vercelli finally prevailed upon them, “more than a thousand heretics perished in the 
flames, or in the river, or by the sword, in the crudest of deaths.” Dolcino s compan¬ 
ion, Margherita, was slowly burned to death before his eyes because she refused to 
abjure. Dolcino himself was slowly driven among the mountain roads and gradually 
torn to pieces, to provide a salutary example to the local population (Lea, 1961: 620). 


| Urban Struggles 

Not only women and men but peasanls and urban workers found in the heretic move¬ 
ment a common cause. This conunonality of interest among people who could other¬ 
wise be assumed to have different concerns and aspirations can be accounted for on sev¬ 
eral grounds. First, in the Middle Ages, a tight relation existed between city and country. 
Many burghers were ex-serfs who had moved or fled to the city in the hope of a better 
life, and, while exercising their arts, continued to work the land, particularly at harvest 
time.Their thoughts and desires were still profoundly shaped by life in the village and by 
their continuing relationship to the land. Peasants and urban workers were also brought 
together by the fact that they were subjected to the same political rulers, since by the 13th 
century (especially in Northern and Central Italy), the landed nobility and the urban patri¬ 
cian merchants were becoming assimilated, functioning as one power structure. This sit¬ 
uation promoted among workers mutual concerns and solidarity. Thus, whenever the 
peasants rebelled they found beside themselves the artisans and day laborers, as well as the 
growing mass of the urban poor.This was the case during the peasant revolt in maritime 
Flanders, which began in 1323 and ended in June 1328, after the King of France and the 
Flemish nobility defeated the rebels at Cassel in 1327. As David Nicholas writes, “[t]he 
* be ls ability to continue the conflict for five years is conceivable only in the light of the 
c itys involvment” (Nicholas 1992: 213—14). He adds that, by the end of 1324, the peas- 
ants 1° revolt had been joined by the craftsmen atYpres and Bruges: 

Bruges, by now under the control of a weaver and fuller party, took 
direction of the revolt from the peasants.... A war of propaganda 
began, as monks and preachers told the masses that a new era had come 
and that they were the equals of the aristocrats {ibid.: 213-14). 


41 


Another peasant-urban worker alliance was that of the Tuchins, a movement qJ 
“bandits” operating in the mountains of Central France, in which artisans joined an 
organization that was typical of the rural populations (Hilton 1973:128). 

What united peasants and artisans was a common aspiration to the levelling of soci^ 
differences. As Norman Cohn writes, this is evidenced in documents of various kinds: I 

From the proverbs of the poor that lament that, “The poor man 
works always, worries and labours and weeps, never laughing from his 
heart, while the rich man laughs and sings...” 

From the miracle plays where it is stated that “...each man ought 
to have as much property as every other, and we have nothing we can 
call our own.The great lords have all the property and poor folk have 
nothing but suffering and adversity...” 

From the most widely read satires which denounced that, 
“Magistrates, provosts, beadles, mayors — nearly all live by robbery 
They all batten on the poor, they all want to despoil them....The strong 
robs the weaker....” Or again: “Good working men make wheaten 
bread but they will never chew it; no, all they get is the siftings from 
the corn, and from good wine they get nothing but the dregs and from 
good cloth nothing but the chaff. Everything that is tasty and good 
goes to the nobles and the clergy...” (N. Cohn 1970: 99-100). 

These complaints show how deep was the popular resentment against the 
inequalities that existed between the “big birds” and the “small birds,” the “fat people” 
and the “lean people,” as rich and poor were referred to in the Florentine political idiom < 
of the 14 th century. “Nothing will be well in England until we are of the same condi¬ 
tion,” John Ball proclaimed during his drive to organize the 1381 English Peasant Rising 
{ibid.: 199). 

As we have seen, die main expressions of this aspiration to a more egalitarian soci¬ 
ety were the exaltation of poverty and the conmiunism of goods. But die affirmation of 
an egalitarian perspective was also reflected in a new attitude towards work, most evident 
among the heretic seels. On one side, we have a “refusal of work” strategy, such as that 
adopted by the French Waldenses (the Poor of Lyon), and the members of some con¬ 
ventual orders (Franciscans,Spirituals), who, wishing to be fcee from mundane cares, relied 
on begging and community support for their survival. On the other, we have a new val¬ 
orization of work, particularly manual labor, that achieved ils most conscious formula¬ 
tions in the propaganda of die English Lollards, who reminded their followers that“TM 
nobles have beautiful houses, we have only work and hardships, but it is from our woifc 1 
that everydiing comes” {ibid.; Christie-Murray 1976:114-15). 

Undoubtedly, the appeal to the “value of work”— a novelty in a society domi¬ 
nated by a military class — functioned primarily as a reminder of the arbitrariness . 
feudal power. But this new awareness also demonstrates the emergence of new social 
forces that played a crucial role in the downfall of the feudal system. 

This valorization of work reflects the formation of an urban proletariat, made up i n 
part of journeymen and apprentices — working under artisan masters, producing for the 


42 





d niaiket — but mostly by waged day-laborers, employed by rich mercliants in indus- 
producing for export. By the turn of the 1century, in Florence, Siena, and Flanders, 
^ cen trad ons of up to 4,000 of such day-laborers (weavers, fullers, dyers) could be found 
C °die textile industry. For them, life in the city was just a new type of serfdom, this time 
111 der the rule of the cloth merchants, who exercised the strictest control over their activ- 
Un and the most despotic class rule. Urban wage-workers could not form any associa- 
- an( j were even forbidden to meet in any place and for any reason; they could not 
0 , ar|lis or even the tools of their trade; and they could not strike on pain of death 

rp renue 1956: 132). In Florence, they had no civil rights; unlike the journeymen, they 
^- ere not part of any craft or guild, and they were exposed to the crudest abuses at the 
hands of the merchants who, in addition to controlling the town government, ran their 
private tribunal and, with impunity, spied on them, ariested them, tortured them, and 
hanged them at the least sign of trouble (Rodolico 1971). 

It is among these workers that we find the most extreme forms of social protest and 
the greatest acceptance of heretic ideas (ibid.: 56-59).Throughout the \4^ century, partic¬ 
ularly in the Flanders, cloth workers were engaged in constant rebellions against the bishop, 
the nobility, the merchants, and even the major crafts. At Bruges, when the mam crafts 
gained power in 1348, wool workers continued to rebel against them. At Ghent, in 1335, 
a revolt by the local bourgeoisie was overtaken by a rebellion of weavers, who tried to 
establish a “workeis* democracy” based on the suppression of all authorities, except those 
living by manual labor (Boissonnade 1927:310-11). Defeated by an impressive coalition 
offorces (including the prince, the nobility, the clergy, the bourgeoisie), the weavers tried 
again in 1378, when they succeeded in establishing what (with some exaggeration, per¬ 
haps) has been called the first “dictatorship of the proletariat” known in lii story. Their goal, 
according to Peter Boissonnade, was “to raise journeymen against masters, wage earners 
against gieat entrepreneurs, peasants against lords and clergy. It was said that they had con¬ 
templated the extermination of the whole bourgeois class, with the exception of children 
of six and the same for the nobles” (ibid.: 31 l).They were defeated only by a battle in the 
open field, at Roosebecque in 1382, where 26,000 of them lost their lives (ibid.). 

The events at Bruges and Ghent were not isolated cases, in Germany and Italy as 
well, the artisans and laborers rebelled at every possible occasion, forcing the local bour¬ 
geoisie to live in a constant state of fear. In Florence, die workers seized power in 1379, led 
by the Ciompi, die day-laborers in the Florentine textile industry. 28 They too established a 
workers* government, but it lasted only a few months before being completely defeated by 
1382 (Rodolico 1971).The workers at Liege, in the Low Countries, were more successful. 
* n 1384, the nobility and the rich (“the gieat/* as they were called), incapable of continuing 
a resistance which had lasted for more than a century, capitulated. From then on, “the crafts 
completely dominated the town,” becoming the arbiter of the municipal government 
(Pireiine 1937:20l).The craftsmen liad also given support to the peasants in revolt, in mar- 
ltUne Handers, in a struggle diat lasted from 1323 to 1328, which Pirenne describes as “a 
f^noine attempt at a social revolution” (ibid.: 195). Here — according to a Flemish con- 
^porary whose class allegiance is apparent — “the plague of insurrection was such that 
became disgusted with life” (ibid.: 196). Thus, from 1320 to 1332, the “good people” 


°*Vpres 


^plored the king not to allow the town s inner bastions, within which they lived. 


tQL *--n — *.... .~—— ..... j -* 

c demolished because they protected them from the “common people” (ibid.: 202-03). 


43 




JiUjuvrie. Peasants took arms in Fla 


in 1323, in France in 1358, in £ 






in 1381, in Florence, Ghent and 


in 1370 and 1380. 


| The Black Death and the Labor Crisis 

A turning point in the course of the medieval struggles was the Black Death, which killed, 
on an average, between 30% and 40% of the European population (Ziegler 1969: 230). | 
Coming in the wake of the Great Famine of 1315-22, that weakened peoples resistance 
to disease (Jordan 1996), this unprecedented demographic collapse profoundly changed I 
Europe’s social and political life, practically inaugurating a new era. Social hierarchies were 
turned upside down because of the levelling effects of the widespread morbidity. Familiarity , 
with death also undermined social discipline. Confronted with the possibility of sudden I 
death, people no longer cared to work or to abide by social and sexual regulations, but tried 
to have the best of times, feasting for as long as they could without thought of the future. 

However, the most important consequence of the plague was the intensification i 
of the labor crisis generated by the class conflict; for the decimation of the work-force j 
made labor extremely scarce, critically increased its cost, and stiffened people’s determi- 1 
nation to break the shackles of feudal rule. 

As Christopher Dyer points out, the scarcity of labor which the epidemic caused I 
shifted the power relation to the advantage of the lower classes. When land had been I 
scarce, the peasants could be controlled by the threat of expulsion. But after the popu- I 
lation was decimated and land became abundant, the threats of the lords ceased to have I 
any serious effect, as the peasants could now freely move and find new land to cultivate 1 
(Dyer 1968: 26).Thus, while the crops were rotting and livestock wandered in the fields, I 
peasants and artisans suddenly became masters of the situation. A symptom of this neW I 
development was the growth of rent strikes, bolstered by threats of a mass exodus to other ■ 
lands or to the city. As the manorial records laconically registered, the peasants “refused I 
to pay” (tiegant solvere). They also declared that they “will not follow the customs any I 


44 



loi lger ” (negant ton sue tudi ties ), and ignored the orders of the lords to repair their houses, 
.j e3ll ditches, or chase escaped serfs (ibid:. 24). 

1 By the end of the 14 th century the refusal of rent and services had become a col¬ 
lective phenomenon. Entire villages jointly organized to stop paying fines, taxes and nl- 
1 and no longer recognized the commuted services, or the injunctions of the manor- 
j courts, which were the main instrument of feudal power. In this context, the quantity 
0 f rent and services withheld became less important than the fact that the class relation, 
which the feudal order was based, was subverted. This is how an early lfith-century 
writer, whose words reflect the viewpoint of the nobility, summed up the situation: 

The peasants are too rich... and do not know what obedience means; 
they don’t take law into any account, they wish there were no nobles... 
and they would like to decide what rent we should get for our lands 
(ibid.: 33). 

In response to die increased cost of labor and the collapse of the feudal rent, various attempts 
were made to increase the exploitation of work, either through die restoradon of labor 
services or, in some cases, the revival of slavery. In Florence, die importation of slaves was 
audiorized in 1366. 29 But such measures only sharpened the class conflict. In England, it 
was an attempt by die nobility to contain the cost of labor, by means of a Labor Statute 
limiting the maximum wage, that caused the Peasant Rising of 1381. This spread from 
region to region and ended with thousands of peasant marching from Kent to London 
“to talk to the king” (Hilton 1973;Dobson 1983).Also in France, between 1379 and 1382, 
there was a “whirlwind of revolution” (Boissormade 1927: 314). Proletarian insurrections 
exploded at Bezier, where forty weavers and cord-wainers were hanged. In Montpellier 
the workers in revolt proclaimed that “by Christinas we will sell Christian flesh at six pence 
a pound.” Revolts broke out in Caicassone, Orleans, Amiens,Tournai, Rouen and finally 
in Paris, where in 1413 a “workers’democracy” came into power.30 In Italy the most impor¬ 
tant revolt was that of die Ciompi. It began in July of1382, when cloth-workers in Florence 
for a time forced the bourgeoisie to give them a share of government and declare a mora¬ 
torium on all debts incurred by wage earners; they then proclaimed what, in essence, was 
a dictatorship of the proletariat (“God’s people”), diough one soon crushed by die com¬ 
bined forces of the nobility and the bourgeoisie (Rodolico 1971). 

“Now is the time”— the sentence that recurs in the letters of John Ball — well 
illustrates the spirit of the European proletariat at the close of the 14 th century, a time 
when, in Florence, the wheel of fortune was beginning to appear on the walls of taverns 
and work-shops, to symbolize the imminent change of lot. 

In the course of this process, the political horizon and the organizational dimen- 
Sl0n $ of the peasant and artisan struggle broadened. Entire regions revolted, forming 
aSSe mblies and recruiting armies. At times, the peasants organized in bands, attacking the 
ca *des the lords, and destroying the archives where the written marks of their servi- 
e were kept. By the 15 th century the confrontation between the peasants and the 
to turned into true wars, like that of the remettsas in Spain, that lasted from 1462 
k 1^6.3 i j n G erman y a cycle of “peasant wars” began in 1476 with the conspiracy led 
y Hans the Piper. This escalated into four bloody rebellions led by Bundschuch 


45 




The Bhuk Death destroyed one-third of the population of Europe. It mu a 
turning point in European history, socially and politically 


(‘‘Peasant Union") between 1493 and 1517, and culminating in a full-fledged war that 
lasted from 1522 to 1525, spreading over four countries (Engels 1977;Blickle 1977). 

In all these cases, the rebels did not content themselves with demanding some 
restrictions to feudal rule, nor did they only bargain for better living conditions. Their 
aim was to put an end to the power of the lords. As the English peasants declared dur¬ 
ing the Peasant Rising of 1381, “the old law must be abolished." Indeed, by the begin¬ 
ning of the 15 th century, in England at least, serfdom or villeinage had almost completely 
disappeared, though the revolt had been politically and militarily defeated and its lead¬ 
ers brutally executed (Titow 1969: 58). 

What followed has been described as the "golden age of the European proletariat" 
(Marx 1909,Vol. 1; Braudel 1967:128ff.),a far cry from the canonic representation of the 
15d> century, which has been iconographically immortalized as a world under the spell 
of the dance of death and memento rttori. 

Thorold Rogers has painted a utopian image of this period in his famous study 
of wages and living conditions in medieval England. "At no time," Rogers wrote,"were 
wages [in England] so high and food so cheap" (Rogers 1894:326ff). Workers sometimes 
were paid for every day of the year, although on Sunday and the main holidays they did 
not work. They were also fed by their employers, and were paid a viaticum for coming 
and going from home to work, at so much per mile of distance. In addition, they 
demanded to be paid in money, and wanted to work only five days a week. 

As we shall see, there are reasons to be skeptical about the extent of this cornu¬ 
copia. However, for a broad section of the western European peasantry, and for urban 
workers,the 15 th century was a period of unprecedented power. Not only did the scarcity 
of labor give them the upper hand, but the spectacle of employers competing for then 
services strengthened their sense of self-value, and erased centuries of degradation and 


46 




k^rvience.The ‘scandal’ of the high wages the workers demanded was only matched, 
die eyes of the employers, by the new arrogance they displayed — their refusal to 
^ork or to cont i nue to work after having satisfied their needs (which they now could 
Jo more quickly because of their higher wages); their stubborn determination to hire 
themselves out only f° r liniited tasks, rather than for prolonged periods of time; their 
j e mands for other perks beside their wages; and their ostentatious clothing which, 
ccordiug to complaints of contemporary social critics, made them indistinguishable 
from the lords. “Servants are now masters and masters are servants,” complained John 
Gower in Mirour de I’omme (1378), “the peasant pretends to imitate the ways of the free¬ 
man, and gives himself the appearance of him in his clothes” (Hatcher 1994:17). 

The condition of the landless also improved after the Black Death (Hatcher 1994). 
Tlus was not just an English phenomenon. In 1348 the canons of Normandy complained 
that they could not find anyone to cultivate their lands who did not ask for more than 
what six servants had earned at the beginning of the century. Wages doubled and trebled 
in Italy, France and Germany (Boissonnade 1927:316-20). In the lands of the Rhine and 
Danube, die daily agricultural wage became equivalent in purchasing power to the price 
of a pig or sheep, and these wage rates applied to women as well, for the diffeiential 
between female and male earnings was drastically reduced in the wake of the Black Death. 

What this meant for die European proletariat was not only the achievement of 
a standard of living diat remained unparalleled until the 19 th century, but the demise of 
serfdom. By the end of the 14 th century land bondage had practically disappeared (Marx 
1909,Vol. 1: 788). Everywhere serfs were replaced by free farmers — copy holders or 
lease holders — who would accept work only for a substantial reward. 


Sexual Politics, the Rise of the State 
and Counter-Revolution 


However, by the end of the 15^h century, a counter-revolution was already under way at 
every level of social and political life. Fitst, efforts were made by the political authorities 
to co-opt the youngest and most rebellious male workers, by means of a vicious sexual 
politics that gave them access to free sex, and turned class antagonism into an antagonism 
against proletarian women.As Jacques Rossiaud has shown in Mediewl Prostitution (1988), 
ln France, the municipal authorities practically decriminalized rape , provided the victims 


' Mfre women of the lower class. In 14^-century Venice, the rape of an unmarried prole- 
tanan woman rarely called for more than a slap on the wrist, even in the frequent case in 
which it involved a group assault (Ruggiero 1989: 91-108). The same was true in most 
reilch cities. Here, the gang-iape of proletarian women became a common practice 
which the perpetrators would carry out openly and loudly at night, in groups of two to 
cen, breaking into their victims’ homes, or dragging their victims through the streets, 
W,t h°ut any attempt to hide or disguise themselves. Those who engaged in these “sports” 
^r^Y° Un g journeymen or domestic servants, and the penniless sons of well-to-do fam- 
^ s , w hile the women targeted were poor girls, working as maids or washerwomen, of 
m was rumored that they were “kept” by their masters (Rossiaud 1988: 22). On 
era ge, half of the town male youth, at some point, engaged in these assaults, which 


47 


Rossiaud describes as a form of class protest, a means for proletarian men — who we^ | 
forced to postpone marriage for many years because of their economic conditions — I 
get back “their own/’ and take revenge against die rich. But the results were destructive 
for all workers, as the state-backed raping of poor women undermined the class solidar¬ 
ity that had been achieved in the anti-feudal struggle. Not surprisingly, die authorities 
viewed the disturbances caused by such policy (the brawls, the presence of youth gangs 
roaming the streets at night in search of adventure and disturbing the public quiet) as a 
small price to pay in exchange for a lessening of social tensions, obsessed as diey were 
with the fear of urban insurrections, and the belief that if the poor gained the upper 
hand they would take their wives and hold them in common (ibid,: 13). 

For proletarian women, so cavalierly sacrificed by masters and servants alike, ] 
the price to be paid was inestimable. Once raped, they could not easily regain their place 
in society. Their reputation being destroyed, they would have to leave town or turn to 
prostitution (ibid.\ Ruggiero 1985: 99). But they were not the only ones to suffer.The 
legalization of rape created a climate of intense misogyny that degraded all women 
regardless of class. It also desensitized the population to the perpetration of violence 
against women, preparing the ground for the witch-hunt which began in this same 






►XsLi * ‘ 



rtf 

9| 



* 

PF! 




hot 

ttiijv* 

fell 

iSq 


VI 

I£J5 


$VMl 


£JU 




'1 

11 


Brothel, from a 15 th -antury Centum woodcut. Brothels u>ere seen as a 
remedy for social protest, heresy, and homosexuality. 


48 





I 


er iod. It was at the end of the 14^ century that the first witch-trials took place, and for 
first time the Inquisition recorded the existence of an all-female heresy and sect of 
jevil-worshippers. 

Another aspect of the divisive sexual politics that the princes and municipal 
authorises pursued to diffuse workers* protest was the institutionalization of prostitu- 
n0 m implemented through the opening of municipal brothels soon proliferating 
throughout Europe. Enabled by the contemporary high-wage regime, state-managed 
prostitution was seen as a useful remedy for the turbulence of proletarian youth, who in 
«j a Crand Mai son *'— as the state-brothel was called in Fiance — could enjoy a privi- 
j e ge previously reserved for older men (Rossiaud 1988).The municipal brothel was also 
considered a remedy against homosexuality (Otis 1985), which in several European 
towns (e g * Padua and Florence) was widely and publicly practiced, but in the aftermath 
of the Black Death was beginning to be feared as a cause of depopulation. 32 

Thus, between 1350-1450, publicly managed, tax-financed brothels were opened 
in every town and village in Italy and France, in numbers far superior to those reached 
in the 19 th century. Amiens alone had 53 brothels in 1453. In addition, all the restric- 
uons and penalties against prostitution were eliminated. Prostitutes could now solicit 
their clients in every part of town, even in front of the church during Mass. They were 
no longer bound to any particular dress codes or the wearing of distinguishing marks, 
because prostitution was officially recognized as a public service (ibid.: 9-10). 

Even the Church came to see prostitution as a legitimate activity.The state-man¬ 
aged brothel was believed to provide an antidote to the orgiastic sexual practices of the 
heretic sects, and to be a remedy for sodomy, as well as a means to protect family life. 

It is difficult retrospectively to tell how far playing the “sex card’* helped the state 
to discipline and divide the medieval proletariat.What is certain is that this sexual “new 
deal" was part of a broader process which, in response to the intensification of social con¬ 
flict, led to the centralization of the state, as the only agent capable of confronting the 
geneialization of the struggle and safeguarding the class relation. 

In this process, as we will see later in this work, the state became the ultimate man¬ 
ager of class relations, and the supervisor of the reproduction of labor-power — a function 
it has continued to perform to this day. In this capacity, state officers passed laws in many 
countries that set limits to the cost of labor (by fixing the maximum wage), forbid vagrancy 
(now harshly punished) (Getemek 1985: 61ff),and encouraged workers to reproduce. 

Ultimately, the mounting class conflict brought about a new alliance between 
the bourgeoisie and the nobility, without which proletarian revolts may not have been 
defeated. It is difficult, in fact, to accept the claim, often made by historians, accord- 
m 8 to which these struggles had no chance of success due to the narrowness of their 
political horizons and the “confused nature of their demands.** In reality, the objec- 
tlVes of the peasants and artisans were quite transparent. They demanded that “every 
man should have as much as another" (Pirenne 1937: 202) and, in order to achieve 
goal, they joined with all those “who had nothing to lose,** acting in concert, in 
different regions, not afraid to confront the well-trained armies of the nobility, despite 
l heir lack miliary skills. 

^ If they were defeated, it was because all the forces of feudal power — the nobility, 

e Church, and the bourgeoisie — moved against them united, despite their traditional 


49 



divisions, by their fear of proletarian rebellion. Indeed, the image, that has been handed I 
down to us, of a bourgeoisie perennially at war with the nobility, and carrying on its ban- 1 
ners the call for equality and democracy, is a distortion. By the late Middle Ages, wher¬ 
ever we turn, from Tuscany to England and the Low Countries, we find the bourgeoisie 
already allied with the nobility in the suppression of the lower classes. 33 For in the peas¬ 
ants and the democratic weavers and cobblers of its cities, the bourgeoisie recognized an 
enemy far more dangerous than the nobility — one that made it worthwhile for the I 
burghers even to sacrifice their cherished political autonomy.Thus, it was die urban bour¬ 
geoisie, after two centuries of struggles waged in order to gain full sovereignty within the 
walls of its conununes, who reinstituted the power of the nobility, by voluntarily submit¬ 
ting to the rule of the Prince, the first step on the road to the absolute state. 

Endnotes 

1. The best example of a maroon society was the Bacaude who took over Gaul around 
the year 300 A.D. (Dockes 1982:87).Their story is worth remembering.These were 
free peasants and slaves, who, exasperated by the hardships they suffered due to the 
skirmishes between the contenders to Romes imperial throne, wandered off, armed 
with farm implements and stolen horses, in roving bands (hence their name: “band 
of fighters”) (Randers-Pehrson 1983: 26). Townspeople joined them and they 
formed self-governing communities, where they struck coins, with “Hope” written 
on their face, elected leaders, and administered justice. Defeated in the open field by 
Maximilian, the colleague of the emperor Diocletian, they turned to “guerrilla” war¬ 
fare, to resurface, in full force in the 5 th century, when they became the target of 
repeated military actions. In 407 A.D., they were the protagonists of a “ferocious 
insurrection.” The emperor Constantine defeated them in battle in Armorica 
(Brittany) {ibid,: 124). Here “rebellious slaves and peasants [had] created an 
autonomous‘state’ organization, expelling the Roman officials, expropriating the 
landowners, reducing the slave holders to slavery, and [organizing] a judicial system 
and an army” (Dockes 1982:87). Despite the many attempts made to repress them, 
the Bacaude were never completely defeated. The Roman emperors had to engage 
tribes of barbarian’invaders to subdue them. Constantine recalled the Visigoths from 
Spain and gave them generous donations of land in Gaul, hoping they would bring 
the Bacaude under control. Even the Huns were recruited to hunt them down 
(Renders-Pehrson 1983: 189). But we find the Bacaude again fighting with the 
Visigoths and Alans against the advancing Attila. 

2. The ergastula were the dwelling of the slaves in the Roman villas. They were “subter¬ 
ranean prisons” in which the slaves slept in chains; they had windows so high (in the 
description of a contemporary landowner) that the slaves could not reach them (Dockes 
1982:69).They “were... found almost everywhere,” in the regions the Romans con¬ 
quered “where the slaves far outnumbered the free men” {ibid,: 208).The name erg#* j 
tola is still used in the Italian criminal justice vocabulary; it means “life sentence.” 

3. This is what Marx writes in Capital, Wol. Ill, in comparing the seif economy with 
the slave and the capitalist economies. “To what extent the laborer, the self-sustain-| 






i n g serf, can here secure for himself a surplus above his indispensable necessities of 
life... depends, other circumstances remaining unchanged, upon the proportion in 
wliich his labor time is divided into labor time for himself and forced labor time for 
his feudal lord.... Under such conditions the surplus labor cannot be filched from 
[the serfs] by any economic measures, but must be forced from them by other meas¬ 
ures, whatever may be the form assumed by them” (Marx 1909,Vol. Ill: 917-18). 
For a discussion of the importance of the commons and common rights in England, 
seeJoanThirsk (1964),Jean Birrell (1987), and J.M. Neeson (1993). The ecological 
and eco-femimst movements have given the commons a new political significance. 
For an eco-feminist perspective on the importance of the commons in the econ¬ 
omy of women’s lives, see Vandana Shiva (1989). 

- For a discussion of social stratification among the European peasantry see R. Hilton 
(1985:116-17, 141-51) and j.Z.Titow (1969: 56-59). Of special importance is the 
distinction between personal freedom and tenurial freedom.The former meant that a 
peasant was not a serf, though s/he may still be bound to provide labor services.The 
latter meant that a peasant held land that was not “burdened” by servile obligations. 
In practice, the two tended to coincide, but this began to change after the comniu- 
tation when free peasants, to expand their holdings, began to acquire lands that car¬ 
ried servile burdens. Thus, “We do fi nd peasants of free personal status (liben) hold¬ 
ing villein land and we do find villeins ( villani , natiw) holding freehold land, though 
both these occurrences are rare and both were frowned upon”(Titow 1969:56-57). 

6. Barbara Hanawalt’s examination of the wills from Kibworth (England) in the 15 th 
century, shows that“men favored mature sons in 41 percent of their wills, while they 
left to the wife alone or the wife with a son die estate in 29 percent of the cases” 
(Hanawalt 1986b: 155). 

7. Hanawalt sees die medieval marital relationsliip among peasants as a “partnership.” 
“Land transactions in manorial courts indicate a strong practice of mutual respon¬ 
sibility and decision making... Husband and wife also appear in purchasing or leas¬ 
ing pieces of land either for themselves or for their children” (Hanawalt 1986b: 16). 
For womens contribution to agricultural labor and control over their surplus pro¬ 
duce also see Shahar (1983:239-42). For women’s extralegal contributions to their 
households, see B. Hanawalt (1986b:12). In England, “illegal gleaning was die most 
common way for a woman to get extra grain for her family” (ibid.). 

This is the limit of some of the otherwise excellent studies produced, in recent years, 
on women in the Middle Ages, by a new generation of feminist historians. 
Understandably, the difficulty in presenting a synthetic view of a field whose empir¬ 
ical contours are still being reconstructed has led to a preference for descriptive 
analyses focussing on the main classifications of women’s social life: “the mother,” 
the worker,” “women in the rural areas,’’“women in die cities,” of ten treated as if 

^ abstracted from social and economic change and social struggle. 

As J. Z.Titow writes in the case of the English bonded peasants: “It is not difficult to 
see why die personal aspect of villeinage would be overshadowed by the problem of 
labour services in the minds of the peasants.... Disabilities arising out of unfree status 
would come into operation only sporadically.... Not so with the labour services, par¬ 
ticularly week-work, which obliged a man to work for liis landlord so many days a 


51 


I 


week, every week, in addition to rendering other occasional services’" (Titow 1969:59) I 

10. “[TJake the first few pages of the Abbots Langley rolls: men were fined for not com- 1 
ing to the harvest, or for not producing a sufficient number of men; they came late 
and when they did come performed the work badly or in an idle fashion. Sometimes • 
not one but a whole group failed to appear and so left the lord’s crop ungarnered, 
Others even when they came made themselves very unpleasant” (Bennett 1967:112). 

11. The distinction between “town” and “city” is not always clear. For our purposes the 
city is a population center with a royal charter, an episcopal see and a market, whereas 
a town is a population center (usually smaller than a city) with a regular market. 

12. The following is a statistical picture of rural poverty in 13 lh -century Picardy: indi- 
gents and beggars, 13%; owners of small parcels of land, so unstable economically 
that a bad harvest is a threat to their survival, 33%; peasants with more land but with¬ 
out draught animals, 36%; wealthy farmers 19% (Geremek 1994: 57). In England, i n 
1280, peasants with less than three acres of land — not enough to feed a family — 
represented 46% of the peasantry (ibid.). 

13. A silk spinners’song gives a graphic picture of the poverty in which female unskilled 
laborers lived in the towns: 

Always spinning sheets of silk 
We shall never be better dressed 
But always naked and poor, 

And always suffering hunger and thirst (Geremeck 1994:65). 

In French municipal archives, spinners and other female wage workers were 
associated with prostitutes, possibly because they lived alone and had no family struc- I 
ture behind them. In the towns, women suffered not only poverty but loss of kin, 
which left them vulnerable to abuse (Hughes 1975:21; Geremek 1994:65-66; Otis 
1985: 18-20; Hilton 1985: 212-13). 

14. For an analysis of women in the medieval guilds, see Maryanne Kowaleski and Judith 
M. Bennett (1989); David Herlihy (1995); and Williams and Echols (2000). 

15. (Russell 1972: 136; Lea 1961:126-27). Also the movement of the Pastoureaux was 
provoked by events in the East, this time the capture of King Louis IX of France by j 
the Moslems, in Egypt, in 1249 (Hilton 1973:100-02). A movement made of’hum¬ 
ble and simple” people was organized to free him, but it quickly took on an anti¬ 
clerical character. The Pastoreaux reappeared in Southern France in the spring and 
summer of 1320, still “directly influenced by the crusading atmosphere.... [They] 
had no chance of crusading in the east; instead, they spent their energies on attack¬ 
ing the Jewish communities of south-west France, Navarre and Aragon, often with , 
the complicity of local consulates, before being wiped out or dispersed by royal offi- I 
cials” ( Barber 1992:135-36). 

16. The Crusade against the Albigensians (Cathars from the town of Aibi, in southern 
France) was the first large-scale attack against the heretics, and the first Crusade 
against Europeans. Pope Innocent III launched it in the regions ofToulouse and 
Montpellier after 1209. In its wake, the persecution of heretics dramatically inten¬ 
sified. In 1215, on the occasion of the fourth Lateran Council, Innocent III inserted j 
in the council's canons a set of measures that condemned heretics to exile, to the 
confiscation of their properties, and excluded them from civil life. Later, in 1224rj 


52 


i 




I 


the emperor Frederick II joined the persecution with the constitution Cum ad eoti~ 
servandum that defined heresy a crime of lesa maiestatis , to be punish with death by 
fire. In 1229, the Council of Toulouse established that heretics should be identified 
and punished. Proven heretics and their protectors were to burned at the stake.The 
house where a heretic was discovered was to be destroyed, and the land upon which 
it was built confiscated.Those who reneged their beliefs were to be inunuted, while 
those who relapsed were to suffer the supplice of fire.Then, in 1231 -1233, Gregorio 
IX instituted a special tribunal with the specific function of eradicating heresy: the 
Inquisition. In 1252, Pope Innocent IV, with the consensus of the main theologians 
of the time, authorized the use of torture against heretics (Vauchez 1990:163,164, 
165). 

|7 Andre Vauchez attributes the”success**ofthe Inquisition to its piocedure.The arrest 
of suspects was prepared with utmost secrecy. At first, the persecution consisted of 
raids against heretics* meetings, organized in collaboration with public authorities. 
Later, when Waldenses and Cathars had already been forced to go underground, su¬ 
spects were called in front of a tribunal without being told the reasons for their con- 
vocadon.The same secrecy characterized the investigative process. The defendants 
were not told the charges moved against them, and those who denounced them 
were allowed to maintain their anonymity. Suspects were released, if they informed 
against their accomplices and promised to keep silent about their confessions.Thus, 
when heretics were arrested they could never know if anyone from their congre¬ 
gation had spoken against them (Vauchez 1990:167-68). As Italo Mereu points out, 
the work of the Roman Inquisition left deep scars in the history of European cul¬ 
ture, creating a climate of intolerance and institutional suspicion that continues to 
corrupt the legal system to this day. The legacy of the Inquisition is a culture of sus¬ 
picion that relies on anonymous charges and preventive detention, and treats sus¬ 
pects as if already proven guilty (Mereu 1979). 

18. Let us recall here Friedrick Engels* distinction between the heretical beliefs of peas¬ 
ants and artisans, associated with their opposition to feudal authority, and those of the 
town burghers, that were primarily a protest against the clergy (Engels 1977: 43). 

19. The politicization of poverty, together with the rise of a money-economy, brought 
about a decisive change in the attitude of the Church towards the poor. Until the 
13* century, the Church exalted poverty as a holy state and engaged in distribu¬ 
tions of alms, trying to convince the rustics to accept their situation and not envy 
the rich. In Sunday sermons, priests were prodigal with tales like that of the poor 
Lazarus sitting in heaven at the side of Jesus, and watching his rich but stingy neigh¬ 
bor burning in flames.The exaltation of Sanaa paupertas (“holy poverty”) also served 
to impress on the rich the need for charity as a means for salvation. This tactic pro¬ 
cured the Church substantial donations of land, buildings and money, presumably 
to be used for distribution among the needy, and it enabled it to become one of the 
richest institutions in Europe. But when the poor grew in numbers and the heretics 
started to challenge the Church’s greed and corruption, the clergy dismissed its 
homilies about poverty and introduced many “distinguo.” Starting in the 13* cen- 
tur y. it affirmed that only voluntary poverty has merit in the eyes of God, as a sign 
°f humility and contempt for material goods; this meant, in practice, that help would 


53 


now be given onJy to the “deserving poor,” that is, to the impoverished members 
of the nobility, and not to those begging in the streets or at city gates. The latter 
were increasingly looked upon with suspicion as guilty of laziness or fraud. 

20. Much controversy took place among the Waldenses on the correct ways of sup¬ 
porting oneself. It was resolved, at the Bergamo Meeting of 1218, with a major split 
between the two main bianches of the movement. The French Waldenses (Poor 0 £ 
Lyon) opted for a life supported by alms, while those of Lombardy decided that one 
must live out of his/her own labor and proceeded to form workers' collectives or 
cooperatives (congregationes laboranti um)(d\ Stefano 1950: 775). The Lombard 
Waldenses continued to maintain private possessions — houses and other forms of 
pioperty — and they accepted marriage and the family (Little 1978:125). 

21. Holmes 1975: 202; N. Cohn 1970: 215-17; Hilton 1973: 124. As described by 
Engels, the Taborites were the revolutionary, democratic wing of the Hussite 
national liberation movement against the German nobility in Bohemia. Of them, 
Engels tells us only that “[Tjheir demands reflected the desire of the peasantry and 
the urban lower classes to end all feudal oppression" (Engels 1977: 44n). But their 
remarkable story is more fully narrated in H. C. Leas The Inquisition of the Middle 
Ages (Lea 1961: 523-40), in which we read that they were peasants and poorfolk, 
who wanted no nobles or gentlemen in their ranks and had republican tendencies. 
They were called Taborites because in 1419, when the Hussites in Prague first came 
under attack, they moved on to Mount Tabor.There they founded a new town, that 
became a center of both resistance against the German nobility, and experimenta¬ 
tion with communism. The story has it that, on arrival from Prague, they put out 
large open chests in which each was asked to place his/her possessions, so that all 
things could be held in common. Presumably, this collective arrangement was short¬ 
lived, but its spirit lived on longer after its demise (Demetz 1997:152-157). 

The Taborites distinguished themselves from the more moderate Calixtins 
because they included among their objectives the independence of Bohemia, and 
the retention of the property which they had confiscated (Lea 1961:530).They did 
agree, however, on the four articles of faith that united the Hussite movement in 
front of its foreign enemies: 

I. Free preaching of the Word of God; 

II. Communion in [both wine and bread]; 

III. The abolition of the clergy's dominion over temporal possessions 
and its return to the evangelical life of Christ and the apostles; 

IV. The punishment of all offenses against divine law without excep¬ 
tion of person or condition. 


Unity was much needed. To stamp out the revolt of the Hussites, the Church* in 
1421, sent against Taborites and Calixtins an army of 150,000. “Five times," Lea 
writes, “during 1421, the crusaders invaded Bohemia, and five times they were 
beaten back.”Two years later, at the Council of Siena, the Church decided that, if 
the Bohemian heretics could not be defeated militarily, they should be isolated and 
starved out through a blockade. But that too failed and Hussite ideas continued t0 
spread into Germany, Hungary, and the Slavic territories to the South. Another 


54 




John Hus being marly red a I 
Gottliebett on the Rhine in 1413. 
After his death, his ashes were 
llirouni into the river. 


army of 100,000 was once more launched against them, in 1431, again to no avail. 
Tliis time the crusaders fled the battlefield even before the battle started, on ^hear¬ 
ing the battle hymn of the dreaded Hussite troops"{ibid.). 

What, in the end, destroyed the Taborites were the negotiations that took place 
between the Church and the moderate wing of the Hussites. Cleverly, the ecclesi- 
astic diplomats deepened the split between the Calixtins and the Taborites, Thus, 
when another crusade was launched against the Hussites, the Calixtins joined the 
Catholic barons in the pay of the Vatican, and exterminated their brothers at the 
Battle of Lipan, on May 30, 1434. On that day, more than 13,000 Taborites were 
left dead on the battlefield. 

Women were very active in the Taborite movement as in all heretic movements. 
Many fought in the battle for Prague in 1420 when 1500 Taborite women dug a 
long trench which they defended with stones and pitchforks (Demetz 1997). 

^2. These words — “the most moving plea for social equality in the history of the 
English language/' according to the historian R. B. Dobson — were actually put 
into John Balls mouth to incriminate him and make him appear like a fool, by a 
contemporary French chronicler, Jean Froissart, a stern opponent of the English 
Peasants’ Revolt. The first sentence of the sermon, which John Ball was said to have 
given many times, (in Lord Berners’ lb^-century translation) is as follows: “Ah, ye 
good people, matters goeth not well to pass in England, nor shall do till everyting 


55 


be common, and that there be no villains nor gentlemen, but that we may be all 
united together, and that the lords be no greater masters than we be” (Dobson 1983 : 
371). 

23. By 1210 the Church had labeled the demand for the abolition of the death penal^ 
an heretical “error,” which it attributed to the Waldenses and the Cathars. So strong! 
was the presumption that the opponents of the Church were abolitionists that every 
heretic who wanted to submit to the Church had to affirm that “the secular power 
can, without mortal sin, exercise judgement of blood, provided that it punishes with 
justice, not out of hatred, with prudence, not precipitation” (Mergivern 1997:101). | 
As J.J. Mergiven points out, the heretical movement took the moral high ground 
on this question, and “forced the ‘orthodox,’ ironically, to take up the defense of a 
very questionable practice” (ibid.: 103). 

24. Among the evidence proving the Bogomils* influence on the Cathars there are two 
works that “the Cathars of Western Europe took over from the Bogomils.”They 
are: The Vision of Isaiah and The Secret Supper , cited in Wakefield and Evans’s review 
of Catharist literature (1969: 447-465). 

The Bogomils were for the Eastern Church what the Cathars were for the 
Western. Aside from their Manicheanism and anti-natalism, the Byzantine authori¬ 
ties were most alarmed by the Bogomils’“radical anarchism,” civil disobedience, and 
class hatred. As Presbyter Cosmas wrote, in his sermons against them: “They teach 
their own people not to obey their masters, they revile the wealthy, hate the king, 
ridicule the elders, condemn the boyars, regard as vile in the eyes of God those who 
serve the king, and forbid every serf to work for his lord.”The heresy had a tremen- ! 
dous and long-term influence on the peasantry of the Balkans. “The Bogomils 
preached in the language of the people, and their message was understood by the 
people... their loose organisation, their attractive solution of the problem of evil, and 
their commitment to social protest made their movement virtually indestructible” 
(Browning 1975: 164-166). The influence of the Bogomils on heresy is traceable in 
the use, common by the 13th century, of“buggery,” to connote first heresy and then 
homosexuality (Bullough 1976a:76ff). 

25. The ban which the Church imposed upon clerical marriages and concubinage was 
motivated, more than by any need to restore its reputation, by the desire to defend 
its property, which was threatened by too many subdivisions, and by the fear that 
the wives of the priests might unduly interfere in clerical affairs (McNamara and I 
Wemple 1988: 93-95). The ruling of the Second Lateran Council strenghtened a 
resolution that had already been adopted in the previous century, but had not been 
observed in the midst of an open revolt against this innovation. The protest had cli¬ 
maxed in 1061 with an “organized rebellion” leading to the election of the Bishop 
of Parma as Antipope, under the title of Honorious II, and his subsequent, fail^ 
attempt to capture Rome (Taylor 1954:35).The Lateran Council of 1123 not o^y I 
banned clerical marriages, but declared those existent invalid, throwing the priests 
families, above all their wives and children, into a state of terror and destitution. 
(Brundage 1987: 214, 216-17). 

26. The reforming canons of the 12 til century ordered married couples to avoid sex dur¬ 
ing the three Lenten seasons associated with Easter, Pentacost and Christmas, on e ver y 


56 





I 


Sunday of the year, on feast days prior to receiving communion, on their wedding 
nights, during their wife’s menstrual periods, during pregnancy, during lactation, and 
while doing penance (Brundage 1987:198-99).These restrictions were not new.They 
were reaffirmations of the ecclesiastic wisdom embodied in dozens ofPenitentials.What 
was novel was that they now became incorporated within the body of Canon Law 
“which was transformed into an effective instrument for Church government and dis¬ 
cipline in the twelfth century ” Both the Chuich and die laity recognized diat a legal 
requirement widi explicit penalties would have a different status than a penance sug¬ 
gested by one’s confessor. In this period, the most intimate relations between people 
becaine a matter for lawyers and penologists (Brundage 1987:578). 

27 The relation between the Beguines and heresy is uncertain. While some of their 
contemporaries, like James de Vitry — described by Carol Neel as “an important 
ecclesiastical administrator”— supported their initiative as an alternative to heresy, 
“they were finally condemned on suspicion of heresy by the Council of Vienne of 
1312, likely because of the clergy’s intolerance of women who escaped male con- 
trol.The Beguines subsequently disappeared, “forced out of existence by ecclesias¬ 
tical reprobation” (Neel 1989: 324-27, 329, 333,339). 

28 . The Ciompi were those who washed, combed, and greased the wool so that it could 
be worked.They were considered unskilled workers and had the lowest social sta¬ 
tus. “Cioi/ipo’* is a derogatory term, meaning dirty and poorly dressed, probably due 
to the fact that the “ciompi” worked half-naked and were always greasy and stained 
with dyes. Their revolt began in July 1382, sparked by the news that one of them, 
Simoncino, had been arrested and tortured. Apparently, under torture he had been 
made to reveal that the ciompi had held a secret meeting during which, kissing each 
other on the mouth, they had promised to defend each other from the abuses of 
their employers. Upon hearing of Simoncino’s arrest, workers rushed to the guild 
hall of the wool industry (Palazzo dell* Arte), demanding that their comrade be 
released Then, after securing his release, they occupied the guild hall, put patrols on 
Ponte Vecchio, and hung the insignia of the “minor guilds” (arti minori) from the 
windows of the guild hall. They also occupied the city hall where they claimed to 
have found a room full of nooses which, they believed, were meant for them. 
Seemingly in control of the situation, the ciompi presented a petition demanding that 
they become part of the government, that they no longer be punished by the cut¬ 
ting of a hand for non-payment of debts, that the rich pay more taxes, and that cor¬ 
poral punislunent be replaced by monetary fines. In the first week of August, they 
formed a militia and set up three new crafts, wliile preparations were made for an 
election in which, for the first time, members of the ciompi would participate. Their 
new power, however, lasted no more than a month, as the wool magnates organized 
a lock-out that reduced them to hunger.After their defeat, many were arrested, hung 
and decapitated; many more had to leave the city in an exodus that marked the 
beginning of the decline of the wool industry in Florence (Rodolico 1971: passim). 
In the aftermath of the Black Death, every European country began to condemn 
idleness, and to persecute vagabondage, begging, and refusal of work. England took 
the initiative with the Statute of 1349 that condemned high wages and idleness, 
establishing that those who did not work, and did not have any means of survival, 


57 



had to accept work. Similar ordinances were issued in France in 1351, when it wa$l 
recommended that people should not give food or hostel to healthy beggars anc jI 
vagabonds. A further ordinance in 1354 established that those who remained idl e 1 
passing their time in taverns, playing dice or begging, had to accept work or face 1 
the consequences; first offenders would be put in prison on bread and water, while 
second offenders would be put in the stocks, and third offenders would be branded 
on the forehead. In the French legislation a new element appeared that became p art 
of the modern struggle against vagabonds: forced labor. In Castile, an ordinance 
introduced in 1387 allowed private people to arrest vagabonds and employ them 
for one month without wages (Geremek 1985: 53-65). 

30. The concept of* workers’ democracy” may seem preposterous when applied to these 
forms of government. But we should consider that in the U.S., which is often viewed 
as a democratic country, not one industrial worker has yet become President, and 
the highest governmental organs are all composed of representatives from an eco¬ 
nomic aristocracy. 

31. The remensas was a redemption tax that the servile peasants in Catalonia had to pay 
to leave their holdings. After the Black Death, peasants subject to the remensas were 
also subjected to a new taxation known as the “Eve evil customs” (Jos maJos wsos) 
that, in earlier times, had been applied in a less generalized way (Hilton 1973: 

117-18).These new taxes, and the conflicts revolving around the use of abandoned 
holdings were the source of a protracted, regional war, in the course of which the 
Catalonian peasants recruited one man from every three households. They also 
strengthened their ties by means of sworn associations, took decisions at peasant 
assemblies and, to intimidate the landowners, put up crosses and other threatening 
signs all over the fields. In the last phase of the war, they demanded the end of rent 
and the establishment of peasant property rights (ibid.: 120-21; 133). 

32. Thus, the proliferation of public brothels was accompanied by a campaign against 
homosexuals that spread even to Florence, where homosexuality was an important 
part of the social fabric “attracting males of all ages, matrimonial conditions and 
social rank ” So popular was homosexuality in Florence that prostitutes used to wear 
male clothes to attract their customers. Signs of a change in Florence were two ini- j 
tiatives which the authorities introduced in 1403, when the city banned “sodomites” 
from public office, and set up a watchdog commission devoted to the extirpation of 
homosexuality: the Office of Decency. But significantly, the main step which the 
office took was to make preparations for the opening of new public brothel, so that, 
by 1418, the authorities were still looking for means to eradicate sodomy “from the 
city and from the county” (Rocke 1997: 30-32, 35). On the Florentine govern¬ 
ments promotion of publicly funded prostitution as a remedy against population 
decline and “sodomy,” see also Richard C.Trexler (1993): 

Like other Italian cities of the fifteenth century, Florence 
believed that officially sponsored prostitution combatted two 
other evils of incomparably greater moral and social import: 
male homosexuality — whose practice was thought to obscure 
the difference between the sexes and thus all difference and 


S8 




decorum — and the decline in the legitimate population which 
resulted from an insufficient number of marriages (p.32). 

Trexler poims out that the same correlation between the spread of homosexuality, 
population decline, and the sponsorship of public piostitution can be found in late 
fourteenth-century, early fifteenth-century Lucca, Venice and Siena, and that the 
growth in the number and social power of prostitutes eventually led to a backlash, 
so that whereas 

[i]n the early fifteenth century preachers and statesmen [in Florence] 
had deeply believed that no city could long endure in which females 
and males seemed the same ... [a] century later [they] wondered if it 
could survive when [upper] class women could not be distinguished 
from brothel prostitutes (ibid.: 65). 

33. In Tuscany, where the democratization of political life had proceeded further than 
in any other European region, by the second half of the 15* century, there was an 
inversion of this tendency and a restoration of the power of the nobility, promoted 
by the mercantile bourgeoisie to block the rise of the lower classes. By this time, an 
organic fusion had occurred between the families of the merchants and those of the 
nobility, achieved by means of marriages and the sharing of prerogatives. This put 
an end to that social mobility that had been the major achievement of urban soci¬ 
ety and communal life in medieval Tuscany (Luzzati 1981: 187,206). 


59 





Albrecht Dunv, The Fall of Man (1510). 
litis poitxrful scene, on the expulsion of Adam and Eve jrom the 
Garden of Eden, evokes the expulsion of the peasantry from its conin' 0 ** 
lands, udiich was starting to occur across western Europe at the very ti* 1 * 
when Dtirer was producing this work. 






The Accumulation of Labor and 
the Degradation of Women: 

Constructing "Difference" in the 
"Transition to Capitalism" 

I demand whether all wars, bloodshed and misery came not 
upon the creation when one man endeavoured to be a lord over 
another?*.. And whether this misery shall not remove... when 
all the branches of mankind shall look upon the earth as one 
common treasury to all. 

—Gerrard Winstanley, The New Law of Righteousness, 1649 

To him she was a fragmented commodity whose feelings and 
choices were rarely considered: her head and her heart were 
separated from her back and her hands and divided from her 
womb and vagina. Her back and muscle were pressed into field 
labor... her hands were demanded to nurse and nurture the 
white man.... [H]er vagina, used for his sexual pleasure, was the 
gateway to the womb, which was his place of capital investment 
— the capital investment being the sex-act and the resulting 
child the accumulated surplus.... 

—Barbara Omolade,“Heart of Darkness,” 1983 


Part One: Introduction 


The development of capitalism was not the only possible response to the crisis of feudal 
Power.Throughout Europe, vast communalistic social movements and rebellions against 
^sm had offered the promise of a new egalitarian society built on social equality 
an d cooperation. However, by 1525 their most powerful expression, the “Peasant War” 
m Ger man y or ^ as p eter Blidde called it, the “revolution of the common man,” was 
Cr ushed.i A hundred thousand rebels were massacred in retaliation.Then, in 1535,“New 


61 



Jerusalem/’ the attempt made by the Anabaptists in the town of Munster to bring the 
kingdom of God to earth, also ended in a bloodbath, first undermined presumably by 
the patriarchal turn taken by its leaders who, by imposing polygamy, caused women 
among their ranks to revolt. 2 With these defeats, compounded by the spreads of witcM 
hunts and the effects of colonial expansion, the revolutionary process in Europe came to 
an end. Military might was not sufficient, however, to avert the crisis of feudalism. 

By the late Middle Ages the feudal economy was doomed, faced with an accu¬ 
mulation crisis that stretched for more than a century. We deduce its dimension 
some basic estimates indicating that between 1350 and 1500 a major shift occurred j n 
the power-relation between workers and masters. The real wage increased by 100%.] 
prices declined by 33%, rents also declined, the length of the working-day decreased, an( j 
a tendency appeared toward local self-sufficiency. 3 Evidence of a chionic disaccum u la- 
tion trend in this period is also found in the pessimism of the contemporary merchants 
and landowners, and the measures which the European states adopted to protect mar¬ 
kets, suppress competition and force people to work at the conditions imposed. As the 
entries in the registers of the feudal manors recorded, “the work [was] not worth the 
breakfast” (Dobb 1963: 54).The feudal economy could not reproduce itself, nor could 
a capitalist society have “evolved” from it, for self-sufficiency and the new high-wage 
regime allowed for the “wealth of the people," but “excluded the possibility of capital¬ 
istic wealth” (Marx 1909,Vol.l: 789). 

It was in response to this crisis that the European ruling class launched the global offen¬ 
sive that in the course of at least three centuries was to change the history of the planet, lay¬ 
ing the foundations of a capitalist world-system, in the relendess attempt to appropriate new 
sources of wealth, expand its economic basis, and bring new workers under its command. 

As we know,“conquest, enslavement, robbery, murder, in brief force” were the pil¬ 
lars of this process {ibid.: 785) .Thus, the concept of a “transition to capitalism” is in many 
ways a fiction. British historians, in the 1940s and 1950s, used it to define a period — 
roughly from 1450 to 1650 — in which feudalism in Europe was breaking down while 
no new social-economic system was yet in place, though elements of a capitalist society 
were taking shape. 4 The concept of “transition,” then, helps us to think of a prolonged 
process of change and of societies in which capitalist accumulation coexisted with polit¬ 
ical formations not yet predominantly capitalistic. The term, however, suggests a grad-1 
ual, linear historical development, whereas the period it names was among the bloodi-J 
est and most discontinuous in world history — one that saw apocalyptic transformations 
and which historians can only describe in the harshest terms: the Iron Age (Kamen),the 
Age of Plunder (Hoskins), and the Age of the Whip (Stone).“Transition,” then, cannot 
evoke the changes that paved the way to the advent of capitalism and the forces that I 
shaped them. In this volume, therefore, I use the term primarily in a temporal sense* 
while I refer to the social processes that characterized the “feudal reaction” and the devel-1 
opment of capitalist relations with the Marxian concept of “primitive accumulation, 
though I agree with its critics that we must rethink Marx’s interpretation of it. 5 

Marx introduced the concept of “primitive accumulation” at the end of C<i/wW* 1 
Volume I to describe the social and economic restructuring that the European ruling class 
initiated in response to its accumulation crisis, and to establish (in polemics with Ada 01 ( 
Smith) 6 that: (i) capitalism could not have developed without a prior concentration of cap- 


62 






I 


i and labor; and that (ii) the divorcing of the workers from the means of production, not 

I » abstinence of the rich, is the source of capitalist wealth. Primitive accumulation, then, 

II useful concept, for it connects the “feudal reaction” with the development of a capi- 

economy, and it identifies the historical and logical conditions for the development of 
tf,e capitalist system, “primitive’ 1 (“originary”) indicating a preconditon for the existence 
of capitalist relations as much as a specific event in time 7 

Marx, however, analyzed primitive accumulation almost exclusively from the 
viewpoint of the waged industrial proletariat: the protagonist, in his view, of the revolu¬ 
tionary process of his time and the foundation for the future communist society.Thus, 
in Ids account, primitive accumulation consists essentially in the expropriation of the 
land from the European peasantry and the formation of the “free,” independent worker, 
although he acknowledged that: 

The discovery of gold and silver in America, the extirpation, enslave¬ 
ment and entombment in mines of the aboriginal population, [of 
America], the beginning of the conquest and looting of the East 
Indies, the turning of Africa into a preserve for the commercial hunt¬ 
ing of black skins, are... the chief moments of primitive accumula¬ 
tion... (Marx 1909,Vol. 1: 823). 

Marx also recognized that “[a] great deal of capital, which today appears in the 
United States without any certificate of birth, was yesterday in England the capitalised 
blood of children” (ibid.: 829-30). By contrast, we do not find in his work any men¬ 
tion of the profound transformations that capitalism introduced in the reproduction 
oflabor-power and the social position of women. Nor does Marx's analysis of primi¬ 
tive accumulation mention the “Great Witch-Hunt”of the 16 lh and 17 th centuries, 
although this state-sponsored terror campaign was central to the defeat of the 
European peasantry, facilitating its expulsion from the lands it once held in common. 

In this chapter and those that follow, I discuss these developments, especially with 
reference to Europe, arguing that: 

I- The expropriation of European workers from dieir means of subsis¬ 

tence, and die enslavement of Native Americans and Africans to the 
mines and plantations of the “New World,” were not the only means 
by which a world proletariat was formed and “accumulated.” 

This process required the transformation of the body into a work- 
machine, and the subjugation of women to the reproduction of the 
work-force. Most of all, it required the destruction of the power of 
women which, in Europe as in America, was achieved through the 
extermination of the “witches.” 

In - Primitive accumulation, then, was not simply an accumulation and 
concentration of exploitable workers and capital. It was also an accu¬ 
mulation of differences and divisions udthin the iwrking class, whereby hier- 


63 


archies built upon gender, as well as “race” and age, became constitu¬ 
tive of class rule and the formation of the modern proletariat. 


IV. We cannot, therefore, identify capitalist accumulation with the liber¬ 
ation of the worker, female or male, as many Marxists (among others) 
have done, or see the advent of capitalism as a moment of historical 
progress. On the contrary, capitalism has created more brutal and 
insidious forms of enslavement, as it has planted into the body of the 
proletariat deep divisions that have served to intensify and conceal 
exploitation. It is in great part because of these imposed divisions — 
especially those between women and men — that capitalist accumu¬ 
lation continues to devastate life in every corner of the planet. 

Capitalist Accumulation and the Accumulation 
of Labor in Europe 

Capital, Marx wrote, comes on the face of the earth dripping blood and dirt from head 
to toe (1909,Vol. 1:834) and, indeed, when we look at the beginning of capitalist devel¬ 
opment, we have the impression of being in an immense concentration camp. In the 
“New World” we have the subjugation of the aboriginal populations to the regimes of 
the mita and cuatelchil* under which multitudes of people were consumed to bring sil¬ 
ver and mercury to the surface in the mines of Huancavelica and Potosi, In Eastern 
Europe, we have a “second seifdom ” tying to the land a population of farmers who had 
never previously been enserfed. 9 In Western Europe, we have the Enclosures, the Witch- 
Hunt, the branding, whipping, and incarceration of vagabonds and beggars in newly con¬ 
structed work-houses and correction houses, models for the future prison system On 
the horizon, we have the rise of the slave trade, while on the seas, ships are already trans¬ 
porting indentured servants and convicts from Europe to America. 

What we deduce from this scenario is that force was the main lever, the main eco¬ 
nomic power in the process of primitive accumulation 1 *) because capitalist development 
required an inunense leap in the wealth appropriated by the European ruling class and 
the number of workers brought under its command. In other words, primitive accumu¬ 
lation consisted in an inunense accumulation of labor-power—“dead labor” in the form 
of stolen goods, and “living labor” in the form of human beings made available for 
exploitation — realized on a scale never before matched in the course of history. 

Significantly, the tendency of the capitalist class, during the first three centuries of 
its existence, was to impose slavery and other forms of coerced labor as the dominant 
work relation, a tendency limited only by the workers’ resistance and the danger of the 
exhaustion of the work-force. 

This was true not only in the American colonies, where, by the 16 th century 
economies based on coerced labor were forming, but in Europe as well. Later, I exam- 
ine the importance of slave-labor and the plantation system in capitalist accumulation 
Here I want to stress that in Europe, too, in the 15 th century, slavery, never completely 
abolished, was revitalized. 11 


64 



/is reported by the Italian historian Salvatore Bono, to whom we owe the most 
pensive study of slavery in Italy, there were numerous slaves in the Mediterranean areas 
16 th and 17 th centuries, and their numbers grew after the Battle ofLepanto (1571) 
111 eS calated die hostilities against the Muslim world Bono calculates that more than 
10 000 slaves lived in Naples and 25,000 in the Napolitan kingdom as a whole (one per 
c ent of the population), and similar figures apply to other Italian towns and to southern 
France- 1° a s y steni public slavery developed whereby thousands of kidnapped 
foreigners — the ancestors of today’s undocumented immigrant workers — were 
employed by city governments for public works, or were farmed out to private citizens 
v ho employed them in agriculture. Many were destined for the oars,an important source 
of such employment being the Vatican fleet (Bono 1999:6—8). 

Slavery is "that form [of exploitation] towards which the master always strives" 
(Dockes 1982: 2). Europe was no exception. This must be emphasized to dispel the 
assumption of a special connection between slavery and Africa. 12 But in Europe slavery 
remained a limited phenomenon, as the material conditions for it did not exist, although 
the employers’ desires for it must have been quite strong if it took until the 18 th century 
before slavery was outlawed in England.The attempt to bring back serfdom failed as well, 
except in the East, where population scarcity gave landlords the upper hand.U In the 
West its restoration was prevented by peasant resistance culminating in the "German 
Peasant War." A broad organizational effort spreading over three countries (Germany, 
Austria, Switzerland) and joining workers from every field (farmers, miners, artisans, 
including the best German and Austrian artists), 14 this "revolution of the common man” 
was a watershed in European history. Like the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution in Russia, it 
shook the powerful to the core, merging in their consciousness with the Anabaptists 
takeover of Munster, which confirmed their fears that an international conspiracy was 
underway to overthrow their power. 15 After its defeat, which occurred in the same year 
as the conquest of Peru, and which was commemorated by Albrecht Diirer with the 
"Monument to the Vanquished Peasants” (Thea 1998: 65; 134-35), the revenge was mer¬ 
ciless. "Thousands of corpses laid on the ground from Thuringia to Alsace, in the fields, 
in the woods, in the ditches of a thousand dismantled, burned castles," “murdered, tor¬ 
tured, impaled, martyred" (ibid.: 153, 146). But the dock could not be turned back. In 
various parts of Germany and the other territories that had been at the center of the 
war," customary rights and even forms of territorial government were preserved. 1 ^ 
This was an exception. Where workers’ resistance to re-enserfinent could not be 
broken, the response was the expropriation of the peasantry from its land and the intro¬ 
duction of forced wage-labor. Workers attempting to hire themselves out independently 
or leave their employers were punished with incarceration and even with death, in the 
case of recidivism. A "free” wage labor-market did not develop in Europe until the 18 th 
centur y,and even then,contractual wage-work was obtained only at the price of an intense 
^ggle and by a limited set of laborers, mostly male and adult. Nevertheless, the fact that 
daVer V and serfdom could not be restored meant that the labor crisis that had character- 
the late Middle Ages continued in Europe into the 17A' century, aggravated by the 
act the drive to maximize the exploitation of labor put in jeopardy the reproduc- 
U ° n the work-force.This contradiction — which still characterizes capitalist develop- 
le ntn .—. ex pioded most dramatically in the American colonies, where work, disease. 


65 



Peasant un furling the banner of “Freedom. ” 


and disciplinary punishments destroyed two thirds of the native American population in 
the decades immediately after the Conquest, 18 It was also at the core of the slave trade 
and the exploitation of slave labor. Millions of Africans died because of the torturous 
living conditions to which they were subjected during the Middle Passage and on the 
plantations. Never in Europe did the exploitation of the work-force reach such genoci- 
dal proportions, except under the Nazi regime. Even so, there too, in the 16< h and 17 th 
centuries, land privatization and the commodification of social relations (the response | 
lords and merchants to their economic crisis) caused widespread poverty, mortality, an< ^ 
an intense resistance that threatened to shipwreck the emerging capitalist economy This*® 
I argue, is the historical context in which the history of women and reproduction in th c | 
transition from feudalism to capitalism must be placed; for the changes which the advent 
of capitalism introduced in the social position of women — especially at the proletarian 
level, whether in Europe or America — were primarily dictated by the search for n£ w 
sources of labor as well as new forms of regimentation and division of the work-force- 


i 


66 





Albrecht Du nr, MoxUMEMTm the 
VAsQUtsHED PiiASAxrs. (1526). This pic- 
(are, nprcsettting a peasant enthroned on a col¬ 
lection of objects from his daily life, is highly 
ambiguous. It cm suggest that the peasants 
arere betrayed or that they themselves should be 
treated as traitors. Accordingly , it has been inter¬ 
preted either iis a satire of the rebel peasants or 
as a homage to their moral strength. What we 
know with certainty is that Diirer ims pro¬ 
foundly perturbed by the events of 1525 , and , 
as a conn need Lutheran, must Init'efollou'ed 
Luther in his condemnation of the revolt. 




I 

In support of this statement, I trace the main developments that shaped the advej* 
of capitalism in Europe — land privatization and the Price Revolution — to argue that nei¬ 
ther was sufficient to produce a self-sustaining process of proletarianization. I then examine 
in broad oudines the policies which the capitalist class introduced to discipline, reproduce 
and expand the European proletariat, beginning with the attack it launched on women 
resulting in the construction of a new patriarchal order, wliich I define as the “patriarchy ^ 
the wage.” Lasdy, I look at the production of racial and sexual hierarchies in the colonies 
asking to what extent they could form a terrain of confrontation or solidarity between 
indigenous, African, and European women and between women and men. 


Land Privatisation in Europe, the Production of Scarcity, 
and the Separation of Production from Reproduction 

From the beginning of capitalism, the immiseration of the working class began with 
war and land privatization.This was an international phenomenon. By the mid-16th C en- 
tury European merchants had expropriated much of the land of the Canary Islands and 
turned them into sugar plantations. The most massive process of land privatization and 
enclosure occurred in the Americas where, by the turn of the 17 th century, one-third of 
the communal indigenous land had been appropriated by the Spaniards under the sys¬ 
tem of the encomienda. Loss of land was also one of the consequences of slave-raiding in 
Africa, which deprived many communities of the best among their youth. 

In Europe land privatization began in the late-15 th century, simultaneously with 
colonial expansion. It took different forms: the evictions of tenants, rent increases, and 
increased state taxation, leading to debt and the sale of land. I define all these forms as 
land expropriation because,even when force was not used, the loss of land occurred against 
die individual’s or the community’s will and undermined their capacity for subsistence. 
Two forms of land expropriation must be mentioned: war — whose character changed 
in this period,being used as a means to transform territorial and economic arrangements 
— and religious reform. 

“[BJefore 1494 warfare in Europe had mainly consisted of minor wars charac¬ 
terized by brief and irregular campaigns”(Cunningham and Grell 2000:95).These often 
took place in the summer to give the peasants, who formed the bulk of the armies, the 
time to sow their crops; armies confronted each other for long periods of time with¬ 
out much action. But by the 16th century wars became more frequent and a new type 
of warf are appeared, in part because of technological innovation but mosdy because th c 
European states began to turn to territorial conquest to resolve their economic crisis 
and wealthy financiers invested in it. Military campaigns became much longer. Armies 
grew tenfold, and they became permanent and professionalized.!* Mercenaries were 
hired who had no attachment to the local population; and the goal of warfare became 
the elimination of the enemy, so that war left in its wake deserted villages, fields cov¬ 
ered with corpses, famines, and epidemics, as in Albrecht Diirer’s “The Four Horsem efl 
of the Apocalypse” (1498).20This phenomenon, whose traumatic impact on the P°P' 
ulation is reflected in numerous artistic representations, changed the agricultural land - 
scape of Europe. 


68 





Jaynes C allot, The Horrors Of War (1633). Engmving.Tliemen hanged 
by military authorities were former soldiers turned robbers. Dismissed soldicis 
were a large part of the vagabonds and beggars that crowded the roads of 17 th - 
century Europe. 


Many tenure contracts were also annulled when the Church’s lands were confis¬ 
cated in the course of the Protestant Reformation, which began with a massive land- 
grab by the upper class. In France, a common hunger for the Church’s land at first united 
the lower and higher classes in the Protestant movement, but when the land was auc¬ 
tioned, starting in 1563, the artisans and day-laborers, who had demanded the expropri¬ 
ation of the Church “with a passion born of bitterness and hope,” and had mobilized 
with the promise that they too would receive their share, were betrayed in their expec¬ 
tations (Le Roy Ladurie 1974: 173-76).Also the peasants, who had become Protestant 
to free themselves from the tithes, were deceived. When they stood by their rights,declar- 
ing that “the Gospel promises land freedom and enfranchisement,” they were savagely 
attacked as fomenters of sedition (ibid.: 192). 2 * In England as well, much land changed 
hands in the name of religious reform. W. G. Hoskin has describe it as “the greatest trans¬ 
ference of land in English history since the Norman Conquest” or, more succinctly, as 
The Great Plunder.”22 In England, however, land privatization was mostly accomplished 
trough the “Enclosures,” a phenomenon that has become so associated with the expro¬ 
priation of workers from their“common wealth” that, in our time, it is used by anti-cap- 
J talist activists as a signifier for every attack on social entitlements. 23 

hi the 16th century, “enclosure” was a technical term, indicating a set of strategies 
th^H^h l° rc k anc * TIC ^ f armers usec * to eliminate communal land property and expand 
e,r holdings.24 mostly referred to the abolition of the open-field system, an arrange- 
^ ent hy which villagers owned non-contiguous strips of land in a non-hedged field. 
°sing a ] so included the fencing off of the commons and the pulling down of the 
c s of poor cottagers who had no land but could survive because they had access to 


69 


customary rights. 25 Large tracts of land were also enclosed to create deer parks, while 
entire villages were cast down, to be laid to pasture. 

Though the Enclosures continued into the 18th century (Neeson 1993), eveti 
before the Reformation, more than two thousand rural communities were destroyed 
this way (Fryde 1996: 185). So severe was the extinction of rural villages that in i 5 jg 
and again in 1548 the Crown called for an investigation. But despite the appointment of 
several royal commissions, little was done to stop the trend. What began, instead, was an 
intense struggle, climaxing in numerous uprisings, accompanied by a long debate on the 
merits and demerits of land privatization which is still continuing today, revitalized by 
the World Banks assault on the last planetary commons. 

Briefly put, the argument proposed by “modernizers,” from all political perspec¬ 
tives, is that the enclosures boosted agricultural efficiency, and the dislocations they pro¬ 
duced were well compensated by a significant increase in agricultural productivity. It 
claimed that the land was depleted and, if it had remained in the hands of the poor, it 
would have ceased to produce (anticipating Garret Hardin’s “tragedy of the com¬ 
mons”), 26 while its takeover by the rich allowed it to rest. Coupled with agricultural 
innovation, the argument goes, the enclosures made the land more productive, leading 
to the expansion of the food supply. From this viewpoint, any praise for conununal land 
tenure is dismissed as “nostalgia for the past,” the assumption being that agricultural com- 
munalism is backward and inefficient, and that those who defend it are guilty of an undue 
attachment to tradition. 27 

But these arguments do not hold. Land privatization and the conunercializadon 
of agriculture did not increase the food supply available to the common people, though 
more food was made available for the market and for export. For workers they inaugu¬ 
rated two centuries of starvation, in the same way as today, even in the most fertile areas 
of Africa, Asia, and Latin America, malnutrition is rampant due to the destruction of com¬ 
munal land-tenure and the “export or perish”policy imposed by the World Banks struc¬ 
tural adjustment programs. Nor did the introduction of new agricultural techniques in 
England compensate for this loss. On the contrary, the development of agrarian capital¬ 
ism “worked hand in glove” with the impoverishment of the rural population (Lis and 
Soly 1979: 102). A testimony to the misery produced by land privatization is the fact 
that, barely a century after the emergence of agrarian capitalism, sixty European towns 
had instituted some form of social assistance or were moving in this direction, and 
vagabondage had become an international problem (ibid.: 87). Population growth may 
have been a contributing factor; but its importance has been overstated, and should be i 
circumscribed in time. By the last part of the 16th century, almost everywhere in Europe, 
the population was stagnating or declining, but this time workers did not derive any ben¬ 
efit from the change. 

There are also misconceptions about the effectiveness of the open-field system 
agriculture. Neo-liberal historians have described it as wasteful, but even a supporter of 
land privatization like Jean De Vries recognizes that the communal use of agricultural 
fields had many advantages. It protected the peasants from harvest failure, due to the v ' ar1 ' 
ety of strips to which a family had access; it also allowed for a manageable work-sched¬ 
ule (since each strip required attention at a different time); and it encouraged a 
cratic way of life, built on self-government and self-reliance, since all decisions — whe®| 


70 





Rural feast. All the festivals, games, and gatherings of the peasant 
community were held on the commons. I ^'-century engraving by 
Daniel Hopfer. 

to plant or harvest, when to drain the fens, how many animals to allow on the commons 
*— were taken by peasant assemblies. 28 

The same consideiadons apply to the*‘commons.’* Disparaged in 16 th century liter¬ 
ature as a source of laziness and disorder, the commons were essential to the reproduction 
of many small fanners or cottars who survived only because they had access to meadows in 
which to keep cows, or woods in which to gather timber, wild berries and herbs, or quar- 
nes ’ fish-ponds, and open spaces in which to meet. Beside encouiaging collective decision- 
ma ^ ln g and work cooperation, the commons were the material foundation upon which 
Peasant solidarity and sociality could thrive. All the festivals, games, and gatherings of the 
P eas ant community were held on the commons. 29 The social function of the commons was 
Specially important for women, who, having less title to land and less social power, were 
^ ore dependent on them for their subsistence, autonomy, and sociality. Paraphrasing Alice 
Can S St3tement about the importance of markets for women in pre-capitalist Europe, we 
sa V that the commons too were for women the center of social life, the place where 




71 





they convened, exchanged news, took advice, and where a women’s viewpoint on canyM 
munal events, autonomous from that of men, could form (Clark 1968: 51). 

This web of cooperative relations, which R.D.Tawney has referred to as the “prim- I 
itive communism” of the feudal village, crumbled when the open-field system was abok 
ished and the communal lands were fenced off (Tawney 1967). Not only did coopery 
tion in agricultural labor die when land was privatized and individual labor contracts 
replaced collective ones; economic differences among the rural population deepened, a$ * 
the number of poor squatters increased who had nothing left but a cot and a cow, and j 
no choice but to go with “bended knee and cap in hand” to beg for a job (Seccombe 
1992). Social cohesion broke down;30 families disintegrated, the youth left the village to 
join the increasing number of vagabonds or itinerant workers — soon to become the 
social problem of the age — while the elderly were left behind to fend for themselves. 
Particularly disadvantaged were older women who, no longer supported by their chil¬ 
dren, fell onto the poor rolls or survived by borrowing, petty theft, and delayed payments. 
The outcome was a peasantry polarized not only by the deepening economic inequal¬ 
ities, but by a web of hatred and resentments that is well-documented in the records of 
the witch-hunt, which show that quarrels relating to requests for help, the trespassing of 
animals, or unpaid rents were in the background of many accusations.31 

The enclosures also undermined the economic situation of the artisans. In the 
same way in which multinational corporations take advantage of the peasants expropri- I 
ated from their lands by the World Bank to construct “free export zones” where com¬ 
modities are produced at the lowest cost, so, in the 16t h and 17 th centuries, merchant ! 
capitalists took advantage of the cheap labor-force that had been made available in the 
rural areas to break the power of the urban guilds and destroy the artisans’ independ- \ 
ence. This was especially the case in the textile industry that was reorganized as a rural 
cottage industry, and on the basis of the “putting out” system, the ancestor of today’s 
“inf omial economy,” also built on the labor of women a nd children.32 But textile work¬ 
ers were not the only ones whose labor was cheapened. As soon as they lost access to 
land, all workers were plunged into a dependence unknown in medieval times, as their 
landless condition gave employers the power to cut their pay and lengthen the working- 
day. In Protestant areas this happened under the guise of religious reform, which dou¬ 
bled the work-year by eliminating the saints’ days. 

Not surprisingly, with land expropriation came a change in the workers’ attitude 
towards die wage. While in the Middle Ages wages could be viewed as an instrument of 1 
freedom (in contrast to the compulsion of the labor services), as soon as access to land came 
to an end wages began to be viewed as instruments of enslavement (Hill 1975: 181ff). 33 

Such was die hatred that workers felt for waged labor that Gerrard Winstanley* 
the leader of the Diggers, declared that it that it did not make any difference whether i 
one lived under the enemy or under one’s brother, if one worked for a wage.This expl** 115 1 
the growth, in the wake of the enclosures (using the term in a broad sense to include aB 
forms of land privatization), of the number of “vagabonds” and “masterless” men, whM 
preferred to take to the road and to risk enslavement or death — as prescribed by lh^ I 
“bloody” legislation passed against them —rather than to work for a wage.34 It I 
explains the strenuous struggle which peasants made to defend their land from exp 10 " I 
priadon, no matter how meager its size. 


72 



In England, anti-enclosure struggles began in the late 15 th century and continued 
roU ghout the 16th a nd 17th w hen levelling the enclosing hedges became "the most 
oiiim° n species of social protest" and the symbol of class conflict (Manning 1988:311). 
C ^enclosure riots often turned into mass uprisings. The most notorious was Kett’s 
Rebellion, named after its leader, Robert Kett, that took place in Norfolk in 1549.This 
no small nocturnal affair. At its peak, the rebels numbered 16,000, had an artillery, 
defeated a government army of 12,000,and even captured Norwich, at the time the sec- 
ui largest city in England. 35 They also drafted a program that, if realized, would have 
c j ie cked the advance of agrarian capitalism and eliminated all vestiges of feudal power 
u i the country. It consisted of twenty-nine demands that Kett, a farmer and tanner, pre¬ 
sented to the Lord Protector. The first was that "from henceforth no man shall enclose 
any more .” Other articles demanded that rente should be reduced to the rates that had 
prevailed sixty-five years bef ore, that "all freeholders and copy holders may take the prof¬ 
its of all commons,*’ and that "all bond-men may be made free, for god made all free with 
his precious blood sheddying** (Fletcher 1973: 142-44). These demands were put into 
practice.Throughout Norfolk, enclosing hedges were uprooted, and only when another 
government army attacked them were the rebels stopped.Thirty-five hundred were slain 
m the massacre that followed. Hundreds more were wounded. Kett and his brother 
William were hanged outside Norwich's walls. 

Anti-enclosure struggles continued, however, through the Jacobean period with a 
noticeable increase in the presence of women.36 During the reign of James I, about ten 
percent of enclosure riots included women among the rebels. Some were all female 
protests. In 1607, for instance, thirty-seven women, led by a "Captain Dorothy,” attacked 
coal miners working on what women claimed to be the village commons in Thorpe 
Moor (Yorkshire). Forty women went to "cast down the fences and hedges*’ of an enclo¬ 
sure in Waddingham (Lincolnshire) in 1608; and in 1609, on a manor of Dunchurch 
(Warwickshire) “fifteen women, including wives, widows, spinsters, unmarried daugh¬ 
ters, and servants, took it upon themselves to assemble at night to dig up the hedges and 
level the ditches" {ibid.: 97). Again, at York in May 1624, women destroyed an enclosure 
and went to prison for it — they were said to have "enjoyed tobacco and ale after their 
feat" (Fraser 1984: 225-26). Then, in 1641, a crowd that broke into an enclosed fen at 
Buckden consisted mainly of women aided by boys {ibid.). And diese were just a few 
instances of a confrontation in wliich women holding pitchf orks and scythes resisted the 
fencing of the land or the draining of the fens when their livelihood was threatened. 

This strong female presence has been attributed to the beliefthat women were above 
die Jaw, being "covered" legally by their husbands. Even men, we are told, dressed like 
women to pull up the fences. But this explanation should not be taken too far. For the 
government soon eliminated this privilege, and started arresting and imprisoning women 
lnv °lved in anti-enclosute riots 37 Moreover, we should not assume that women had no 
sta e of their own in the resistance to land expropriation.The opposite was the case. 

As with the commutation, women were those who suffered most when the land 
l° st and the village community fell apart. Part of the reason is that it was f ar more dif- 
to *° r C ^ eni to b ecome vagabonds or migrant workers, for a nomadic life exposed them 
I violence, especially at a time when misogyny was escalating. Women were also 
lll °bile on account of pregnancies and the caring of children, a fact overlooked by 


7 3 


scholars who consider the flight from servitude (through migration and other forms q 4 
nomadism) the paradigmatic forms of struggle. Nor could women become soldiers f 0f 
pay, though some joined armies as cooks, washers, prostitutes, and wives;^« but by the 17 ^ 
century this option too vanished, as armies were further regimented and the crowds 
women that used to follow them were expelled from the battlefields (Kriedte 1 983: 55 ) 

Women were also more negatively impacted by the enclosures because as soon ^ ] 
land was privatized and monetary relations began to dominate economic life, they fbu nt j 
it more difficult than men to support themselves, being increasingly confined to repro, 
ductive labor at the very time when this work was being completely devalued. As we 
will see, this phenomenon, which has accompanied the shift from a subsistence to a 
money-economy, in every phase of capitalist development, can be attributed to several 
factors. It is clear, however, that the commercialization of economic life provided the 
material conditions for it. 

With the demise of the subsistence economy that had prevailed in pre-capitalist 
Europe, the unity of production and reproduction which has been typical of all societies 
based on production-for-use came to an end, as these activities became the carriers of dif¬ 
ferent social relations and were sexually differentiated. In the new monetary regime, out) 



Entitled "Wowctt and Kruives,” this pi dure by Hints Sebald Bclumt (c. 1530) 
shows the train of women that used to follow the armies even to the battlefield. 1 
wo mat, it winding wives and prostitutes , took care of the reproduction of the sol- 
diets. Notice the woman wearing a muzzling device. 


74 






^uction-f or-markct was defined as a value-creating activity, whereas the reproduction 
^fthe wor ^ er began to be considered as valueless from an economic viewpohit and even 
e ased to be considered as work. Reproductive work continued to be paid — though at 
the lowest rates — when performed for the master class or outside the home. But the 
nomic importance of the reproduction of labor-power carried out in the home, and 
function in the accumulation of capital became invisible, being mystified as a natural 
VOi *ation and labelled “women’s labor.” In addition, women were excluded from many 
v \ lireJ occupations and, when they worked for a wage, they earned a pittance compared 
to the average male wage. 

These historic changes — that peaked in die 19 th century with the creadon of the 
full-time housewife — redefined women s position in society and in relation to men.The 
sexual division of labor diat emerged from it not only fixed women to reproductive work, 
hut increased their dependence on men, enabling the state and employers to use the male 
wage as a means to command women’s labor. In this way, the separation of commodity 
pioduction from the reproduction of labor-power also made possible the development 
of a specifically capitalist use of the wage and of the markets as means for the accumu¬ 
lation of unpaid labor. 

Most importantly, the separation of production from reproduction created a class 
of proletarian women who were as dispossessed as men but, unlike their male relatives, 
m a society diat was becoming increasingly monetarized, had almost no access to wages, 
thus being forced into a condition of chronic poverty, economic dependence, and invis¬ 
ibility as workers. 

As we will see, the devaluation and feminization of reproductive labor was a dis¬ 
aster also for male workers, for the devaluation of reproductive labor inevitably devalued 
its product: labor-power. But there is no doubt that in the “transition from feudalism to 
capitalism” women suffered a unique process of social degradation that was fundamen¬ 
tal to the accumulation of capital and has remained so ever since. 

Also in view of these developments, we cannot say, then, that the separation of the 
worker from the land and the advent of a money-economy realized the struggle which 
the medieval serfs had fought to free themselves from bondage. It was not the workers 
— male or female — who were liberated by land privatization. What was “liberated” was 
capital, as the land was now “free” to function as a means of accumulation and exploita¬ 
tion, rather than as a means of subsistence. Liberated were the landlords, who now could 
unload onto the workers most of the cost of their reproduction, giving them access to 
some means of subsistence only when directly employed.When work would not be avail- 
a ble or would not be sufficiently profitable, as in times of commercial or agricultural cri- 
S1S * workers, instead, could be laid off and left to starve. 

The separation of workers from their means of subsistence and their new depend- 
on monetary relations also meant that the real wage could now be cut and women’s 
j ° r could be further devalued with respect to men’s through monetary manipulation. 
£ n °t a coincidence, then, that as soon as land began to be privatized, the prices of 
°^5^iffs, which for two centuries had stagnated, began to rise.^ 9 


75 



The Pride Revolution and the Pauperisation of the 

European Working Class 

This “inflationary” phenomenon, which due to its devastating social consequences has 1 
been named the Price Revolution (Ramsey 1971), was attributed by contemporaries and 
later economists (e.g., Adam Smith) to the arrival of gold and silver from America, “pour- 
ing into Europe [through Spain) in a manrmoth stream” (Hamilton 1965: vii). But it j las j 
been noted that prices had been rising before these metals started circulating through the 1 
European markets. 40 Moreover, irf themselves, gold and silver are not capital, and could 
have been put to other uses, e.g., to make jewelry or golden cupolas or to embroider 
clothes. If they functioned as price-regulating devices, capable of turning even wheat into 
a precious commodity, this was because they were planted into a developing capitalist 
world, in which a growing percentage of the population — one-third in England (Laslett 
1971:53) — had no access to land and had to buy the food that they had once produced, 
and because the ruling class had learned to use the magical power of money to cut labor 
costs. In other words, prices rose because of the development of a national and interna¬ 
tional market-system encouraging the export-import of agricultural products, and 
because merchants hoarded goods to sell them later at a higher price. In September 1565, 
in Antwerp, “while the poor were literally starving in the streets,” a warehouse collapsed 
under the weight of the grain packed in it (Hackett Fischer 1996: 88). 

It was under these circumstances that the arrival of the American treasure trig¬ 
gered a massive redistribution of wealth and a new proletarianization process. 4 ! Rising 1 
prices ruined the small farmers, who had to give up their land to buy grain or bread 
when the harvests could not feed their families, and created a class of capitalist entre¬ 
preneurs, who accumulated fortunes by investing in agriculture and money-lending, at 
a time when having money was for many people a matter of life or death. 42 

The Price Revolution also triggered a historic collapse in the real wage compa¬ 
rable to that which has occurred in our time throughout Africa,Asia, and Latin America, 
in the countries “structurally adjusted” by the World Bank and the International 
Monetary Fund. By 1600, real wages in Spain had lost thirty percent of their purchas¬ 
ing power with respect to what they had been in 1511 (Hamilton 1965: 280), and the 
collapse was just as sharp in other countries. While the price of food went up eight 
times, wages increased only by three times (Hackett Fischer 1996:74).This was not the 
work of the invisible hand of the market, but the product of a state policy that pre¬ 
vented laborers from organizing, while giving merchants the maximum freedom with I 
regard to the pricing and movement of goods. Predictably, within a few decades, the j 
real wage lost two-thirds of its purchasing power, as shown by the changes that inter¬ 
vened in the daily wages of an English carpenter, expressed in kilograms of grai&i 
between the 14 th and 18* century (SlicherVan Bath 1963:327): 

Years Kilograms of Grain 


76 


1351-1400 

1401-1450 

1451-1500 


121.8 

155.1 

143.5 



I 


1500-1550 122.4 

1551-1600 H3.0 

1601-1650 48.3 

*1651-1700 74.1 

1701-1750 94.6 

1751-1800 79.6 


[t took centuries for wages in Europe to return to the level they had reached in 
t he la^ Middle Ages.Things deteriorated to the point that, in England, by 1550, male 
artisans had to work forty weeks to earn the same income that, at the beginning of the 
century, they had been able to obtain in fifteen weeks. In France, [see graph, next page] 
wages dropped by sixty percent between 1470 and 1570 (Hackett Fischer 1996:78). 4 ^ 
The wage collapse was especially disastrous for women. In the 14 th century, they had 
received half the pay of a man for the same task; hut by the mid-16th century they were 
receiving only one-third of the reduced male wage, and could no longer support them¬ 
selves by wage-work, neither in agriculture nor in manufacturing, a fact undoubtedly 
responsible for the massive spread of prostitution in this period. 44 What followed was 
the absolute impoverishment of the European working class, a phenomenon so wide¬ 
spread and general that, by 1550 and long after, workers in Europe were referred to as 
simply “the poor.” 

Evidence for this dramatic impoverishment is the change that occurred in the 
workers* diets. Meat disappeared from their tables, except for a few scraps of lard, and so 
did beer and wine, salt and olive oil (Braudel 1973:127fF; Le Roy Ladurie 1974). From 
the 16th to the 18 th centuries, the workers* diets consisted essentially of bread, the main 
expense in their budget. This was a historic setback (whatever we may think of dietary 
norms) compared to the abundance of meat that had typified the late Middle Ages. Peter 
Kriedte writes that at that time, the “annual meat consumption had reached the figure 
of 100 kilos per person, an incredible quantity even by today’s standards. Up to the 19 th 
century this figure declined to less than twenty kilos’* (Kriedte 1983: 52). Braudel too 
speaks of the end of“carnivorous Europe,” summoning as a witness the Swabian Heinrich 
Muller who, in 1550, commented that, 

...in the past they ate differendy at the peasant’s house.Then, there 
was meat and food in profusion every day; tables at village fairs and 
feasts sank under their load. Today, everything has truly changed. For 
some years, in fact, what a calamitous time, what high prices! And the 
food of the most comfortably off peasants is almost worse than that of 
day-labourers and valets previously” (Braudel 1973: 130). 

Not only did meat disappear, but food shortages became conunon, aggravated in 
of harvest failure, when the scanty grain reserves sent the price of grain sky-high, 
c °ndemning city dwellers to starvation (Braudel 1966,Vol. 1:328).This is what occurred 
lr » the famine years of the 1540s and 1550s, and again in the decades of the 1580s and 
s > which were some of the worst in the history of the European proletariat, coincid- 
n B with widespread unrest and a record number of witch-trials. But malnutrition was 


77 



Price Revolution und the Fall of the Real Wage, 1480-1640. Vie Price Revolution 
gered a historic collapse in the real wage . Within a few decades, the real tvage lost two- 
thirds of its purchasing poioer, Vie real wage did not return to the level it had reached j t , 
the 15 th century until the 19 tft century (Phelps-Brown and Hopkins, 1981). 


Southern England 


Wage Index 
( 1451 - 75 - 100 ) 


Alsace 


Wage Index 
( 1451 - 75 - 100 ) 


France 


Wage Index 
( 1451 - 75 - 100 ) 


1440 1460 1480 1500 1520 1540 1560 1580 1600 1620 1640 








Population (Millions) price index 


The social consequences of the Price Revolution are revealed Ity these charts, ivhich indicate 
respectively; the rise in the price of grain in England between 1490 atid 1650, the con¬ 
comitant rise in prices and property crimes in Essex (England) between 1566 and 1602, 
and the population decline measured in millions in Germany, Austria, Italy and Sptiin 
between 1500 and 1750 (Hackett Fischer, 1996). 


man annaai pice of gum 
(1430-9^100), twnjaBd 
with 3l-yo» «m»ge 


1 , 


Germany and Austria 





rampant also in normal times, so that food acquired a high symbolic value as a marker qJ 
rank. The desire for it among the poor reached epic proportions, inspiring dreams ^ 
Pantagruelian orgies, like those described by Rabelais in his Gargantua and Patttagrujl 
(1552), and causing nightmarish obsessions, such as the conviction (spread among north 
eastern Italian farmers) that witches roamed the countryside at night to feed upon . 
cattle (Mazzali 1988:73). 

Indeed, the Europe that was preparing to become a Promethean world-mo Vej l 
presumably taking humankind to new technological and cultural heights, was a pj ac ^ 
where people never had enough to eat. Food became an object of such intense desii* 
that it was believed that the poor sold their souls to the devil to get their hands on it. 
Europe was also a place where, in times of bad harvests, country-folk fed upon acorns, I 
wild roots, or the barks of trees, and multitudes roved the countryside weeping and vva ^ 
ing,“so hungry that they would devour the beans in the fields” (Le Roy Ladurie 1974); 
or they invaded the cities to benefit from grain distributions or to attack the houses and 
granaries of the rich who, in turn, rushed to get arms and shut the city gates to keep the 
starving out (Heller 1986: 56-63). 

That the transition to capitalism inaugurated a long period of starvation for work¬ 
ers in Europe — which plausibly ended because of the economic expansion produced 
by colonization — is also demonstrated by the fact that, while in the 14 th and 15 th cen¬ 
turies, the proletarian struggle had centered around the demand for “liberty” and less 
work, by the 16* and 17 th , it was mostly spurred by hunger, taking the form of assaults 
on bakeries and granaries, and of riots against the export of local crops. 45 The authori¬ 
ties described those who participated in these attacks as “good for nothing” or“poor”and 
“humble people,” but most were crafkmen, living, by this time, from hand to mouth. 

It was the women who usually initiated and led the food revolts. Six of the thirty- 
one food riots in 17 th -century France studied by Ives-Marie Berce were made up exclu¬ 
sively of women. In the others the female presence was so conspicuous that Berce calls 
them “womens riots” 46 Commenting on this phenomenon, with reference to 18*-cen- 
tury England, Sheila Rowbotham concluded that women were prominent in this type 
of protest because of their role as their families’ caretakers. But women were also those 
most ruined by high prices for, having less access to money and employment than men, 
they were more dependent on cheap food for survival.This is why, despite their subo^B 
dinate status, they took quickly to the stieets when food prices went up, or when rumor 
spread that the grain supplies were being removed from town. This is what happened at 
the time of the Cordoba uprising of 1652, which started “early in the morning ... when! 
a poor woman went weeping through the streets of the poor quarter, holding the body 
of her son who had died of hunger” (Kamen 1971: 364). The same occurred in 
Montpellier in 1645, when women took to the streets “to protect their children 
starvation” (ibid.: 356). In France, women besieged the bakeries when they became con ~ j 
vinced that grain was to be embezzled, or found out that the rich had bought the be^J 
bread and the remaining was lighter or more expensive. Crowds of poor women wouMj 
then gather at the bakers’ stalls, demanding bread and charging the bakers with hidiflB 
their supplies. Riots broke out also in the squares where grain markets were held, OM 
along the routes taken by the carts with the corn to be exported, and “at the river bank 5 1 
where...boatmen could be seen loading the sacks” On these occasions the riote«l 



^bushed the carts... with pitchforks and sticks... the men carrying away the sacks, the 
v on KM1 Sphering as much grain as they could in their skirts” (Berce 1990:171-73). 

The struggle for food was fought also by other means, such as poacliing, stealing 
fjoin ones ne ighbors’ fields or homes, and assaults on the houses of the rich. In Troyes 
1523, rumor had it that the poor had put the houses of the rich on fire, preparing to 
invade them (Heller 1986:55-56).AtMalines, in the Low Countries,the houses ofspec- 
ulat° rs were marked by angry peasants with blood (Hackett Fischer 1996: 88). Not sur- 
risingly, “food crimes” loom large in die disciplinary procedures of the 16th a nd 17 th 
centuries. Exemplary is the recurrence of the theme of the “diabolical banquet” in the 
vvitch-trials, suggesting that feasting on roasted mutton, white bread, and wine was now 
considered a diabolic act in the case of the “common people.” But the main weapons 
available to the poor in their struggle for survival were their own famished bodies, as in 
tmies of famine hordes of vagabonds and beggars surrounded the better off, half-dead of 
hunger and disease, grabbing their arms, exposing their wounds to them and, forcing 
diem to live in a state of constant fear at the prospect of both contamination and revolt. 
“You cannot walk down a street or stop in a square — a Venetian man wrote in the mid- 
l^th century — without multitudes surrounding you to beg for charity: you see hunger 



Family of vagabonds. 
Engraving by Lucas win 
Ley din, 1520 . 


81 







written on their faces, their eyes like gemless rings, the wretchedness of their bodies witjJ 
skins shaped only by bones” (ibid.: 88). A century later, in Florence, the scene was abo^J 
the same.“[I]t was impossible to hear Mass,” one G. Balducci complained, in April 1650* 
“so much was one importuned during the service by wretched people naked and coy.! 
ered with sores” (Braudel 1966,Vol. II: 734-35). 47 

The State Intervention in the Reproduction of Labor: Poor 

Relief, and the Criminalization of the Working Class 

The struggle for food was not the only front in the battle against the spread of capital¬ 
ist relations. Everywhere masses of people resisted the destruction of their former ways 
of existence, fighting against land privatization, the abolition of customary rights, the 
imposition of new taxes, wage-dependence, and the continuous presence of armies i n 
their neighborhoods, which was so hated that people rushed to close the gates of their 
towns to prevent soldiers from settling among them. 

In France, one thousand “emotions” (uprisings) occurred between the 1530s 
and 1670s, many involving entire provinces and requiring the intervention of troops 
(Goubert 1986: 205). England, Italy, and Spain present a similar picture, 48 indicat¬ 
ing that the pre-capitalist world of the village, which Marx dismissed under the 
rubric of “rural idiocy,”could produce as high a level of struggle as any the indus¬ 
trial proletariat has waged. 

In the Middle Ages, migration, vagabondage, and the rise of “crimes against prop¬ 
erty” were part of the resistance to impoverishment and dispossession; these phenomena 
now took on massive proportions. Everywhere — if we give credit to die complaints of the 
contemporary authorities — vagabonds weie swarming, changing does, crossing borders, 
sleeping in the haystacks or crowding at the gates of towns — a vast humanity involved in 
a diaspora of its own, that for decades escaped the authorities' control. Six thousand 
vagabonds were reported in Venice alone in 1545. “In Spain vagrants cluttered the road, 
stopping at every town” (Braudel,Vol. II: 740) 49 Starting with England, always a pioneer in 
these matters, the state passed new, far liarsher anti-vagabond laws prescribing enslavement 
and capital punishment in cases of recidivism. But repression was not effective and the roadl j 
of 16* and 17d»-century Europe remained places of great (com)modon and encounter* 
Through them passed heretics escaping persecution, discharged soldiers, journeymen and 
other “humble folk” in search of employment, and then foreign artisans, evicted peasants 
prostitutes, hucksters, petty thieves, professional beggars. Above all, through the roads ® 
Europe passed the tales, stories, and experiences of a developing proletariat. Meanwhile, 4*1 
crime rates also escalated, in such proportions that we can assume that a massive reclame I 
don and reappropriadon of the stolen communal wealth was underway.50 

Today, diese aspects of the transition to capitalism may seem (for Europe at lew! 
things of the past or — as Marx put it in the Crwidrisse (1973:459 ) —“historical precon- I 
didons”of capitalist development, to be overcome by more mature forms of capitalism. 
the essential similarity between these phenomena and die social consequences of die ncwl 
phase of globalization that we are witnessing tells us otherwise. Pauperization, rebelling 
and the escalation of “crime”are structural elements of capitalist accumulation as cap 1- ® 
tal ism must strip the work-f orce from its means of reproduction to impose its own 


82 




That in the industrializing regions of Europe, by the 19* h century, the most 
extreme forms of proletarian misery and rebellion had disappeared is not a proof 
against this claim. Proletarian misery and rebellions did not come to an end; they only 
lessened to the degree that the super-exploitation of workers had been exported, 
through the institutionalization of slavery, at first, and later through the continuing 
expansion of colonial domination. 

As for the “transition” period, this remained in Europe a time of intense social 
conflict, providing the stage for a set of state initiatives that, judging from their effects, 
had three main objectives: (a) to create a more disciplined work-force; (b) to diffuse social 
Protest; and (c) to fix workers to the jobs forced upon them. Let us look at them in turn. 

hi pursuit of social discipline, an attack was launched against all forms of collec- 
t,vc sociality and sexuality including sports, games, dances, ale-wakes, festivals, and other 
Broup~ r ituals that had been a source of bonding and solidarity among workers. It was 
^nctioned by a deluge of bills: twenty-five, in England, just for the regulation of ale- 
ouses, in the years between 1601 and 1606 (Underdown 1985: 47-48). Peter Burke 
tu m wor k on the subject, has spoken of it as a campaign against ‘‘popular cuta 
r re * ^ ut we can see that what was at stake was the desocialization or decollectivization 
ti v C re P roc ^ Uct ron of the work-force, as well as the attempt to impose a more produc- 
Use °f leisure time.This process, in England, reached its climax with the coming to 
er of the P ur itans in the aftermath of the Civil War (1642-49), when the fear of 




83 




social indiscipline prompted the banning of all proletarian gatherings and merrynia 
But the ‘‘moral reformation" was equally intense in non-Protestant areas where, in ^ * 
same period, religious processions weie replacing the dancing and singing that had ! 
held in and out of the churches. Even die individual’s relation with God was privatized? 
in Protestant areas, with the institution of a direct relationship between the individual 
and the divinity; in the Catholic areas, with the introduction of individual confession 
The church itself, as a community center, ceased to host any social activity other than 
those addressed to die cult. As a result, the physical enclosure operated by land privati¬ 
zation and the hedging of the commons was amplified by a process of social enclosing 
die reproduction of workers sliifdng from the openfield to the home, from the com¬ 
munity to the family, from the public space (the common, die church) to the private* 5 * 

Secondly, in the decades between 1530 and 1560, a system of public assistance was 
introduced in at least sixty European towns, both by initiative of the local municipalities and 
by direct intervention of the central state. 52 Its precise goals are still debated. While much 
of the literature on the topic sees die introduction of public assistance as a response to a 
humanitarian crisis that jeopardized social control, in his massive study of coerced labor, the 
French Marxist scholar Yann Moulier Boutang insists that its primary objective was "The 
Great Fixation" of die proletariat, that is, the attempt to prevent the flight oflabor.53 

In any event, the introduction of public assistance was a turning point in the state 
relation between workers and capital and the definition of the function of the state. It 
was the first recognition of the unsustainability of a capitalist system ruling exclusively 
by means of hunger and terror. It was also the first step in the reconstruction of the state 
as the guarantor of the class relation and as the chief supervisor of the reproduction and 
disciplining of the work-force. 

Antecedents for this function can be found in the 14 th century, when faced with 
the generalization of the anti-feudal struggle, the state had emerged as the only agency 
capable of confronting a working class that was regionally unified, armed, and no longer 
confined in its demands to the political economy of the manor. In 1351, with the pass¬ 
ing of the Statute of Laborers in England, which fixed the maximum wage, the state 
had formally taken charge of the regulation and repression of labor, which the local 
lords were no longer capable of guaranteeing. But it was with the introduction of pub¬ 
lic assistance that the state began to claim "ownership" of the work-force, and a capi¬ 
talist "division of labor" was instituted within the ruling class, enabling employers w 
relinquish any responsibility for the reproduction of workers, in the certainty that tb* 
state would intervene, either with the carrot or with the stick, to address the inevitable 
crises. With this innovation, a leap occurred also in the management of social repro¬ 
duction, resulting in the introduction of demographic recording (census-taking, 
recording of mortality, natality, marriage rates) and the application of accounting 
social relations. Exemplary is the work of the administrators of the Bureau de Pauvre* 
in Lyon (France), who by the end of the 16^ century had learned to calculate the num¬ 
ber of the poor, assess the amount of food needed by each child or adult, and keep tradfl 
of t he deceased, to make sure that nobody could claim assistance in the name of a 
person (Zemon Davis 1968: 244-46). 

Along with this new ‘‘social science," an international debate also developed on ujfl 
administration of public assistance anticipating the contemporary debate on welfare. Sho«^ 


84 





jjy ^ose unable to work, described as the ‘‘deserving poor,”be supported, or should “able- 
j^jjicd” laborers unable to find a job also be given help? And how much or how little should 
t j lC y be given, so as not to be discouraged from looking for woik? These questions were 
racial fioni the viewpoint of social discipline, as a key objective of public aid was to tie 
, or kers to their jobs. But, on these matters a consensus could rarely be reached. 

While humanist reformers like Juan LuisVives 54 and spokesmen for the wealthy 
^rghers recognized the economic and disciplinary benefits of a more liberal and cen¬ 
tralized dispensation of charity (not exceeding the distribution of bread, however), part 
of ^e clergy strenuously opposed the ban on individual donations. But, actoss differences 
of systems and opinions, assistance was administered with such stinginess that it generated 
as much conflict as appeasement.Those assisted resented the humiliating rituals imposed 
on them, like wearing the “mark of infamy 1 ’ (previously reserved for lepers and Jews), or 
(in France) participating in the annual processions of the poor, in which they had to paiade 
Slll ging hymns and holding candles; and they vehemently protested when the alms were 
not ptomptly given or were inadequate to their needs. In response, in some French towns, 
gibbets were erected at the time of food distributions or when the poor were asked to 
work in exchange for the food they received (Zemon Davis, 1968:249). In England, as 
the 16 1 * 1 century progressed, receipt of public aid — also for children and the elderly — 
was made conditional on the incarceration of the recipients in “work-houses,” where they 
became the experimental subjects for a variety of work-schemes. 55 Consequently, the 
attack on workers, that had begun with the enclosures and the Price Revolution, in the 
space of a century, led to die criminalization of the working class, that is, the formation of a 
vast proletariat either incarcerated in the newly constructed work-houses and correction- 
houses, or seeking itt survival outside the law and living in open antagonism to the state 
— always one step away from the whip and the noose. 

From the viewpoint of the formation of a laborious work-force, this was a deci¬ 
sive failure, and the constant preoccupation with the question of social discipline in 
16th and 17^-century political circles indicates that the contemporary statesmen and 
entrepreneurs were keenly aware of it. Moreover, the social crisis that this general state 
of rebelliousness provoked was aggravated in the second half of the 16 th century by a 
new economic contraction, in great part caused by the dramatic population decline 
that occurred in Spanish America after the Conquest, and the shrinking of the colo- 
nial economies. 


Population Decline, Economic Crisis, and the 
Disciplining of Women 


Within i ess t han century from the landing of Columbus on the American continent, the 
Colonizers dream of an infinite supply of labor (echoing the explorers’ estimate of an 
infinite number of trees” in the forests of the Americas) was dashed. 

Europeans had brought death to America. Estimates of the population collapse 
1C affected the region in the wake of the colonial invasion vary. But scholars almost 
'"‘»°usly liken i% effects to an “American Holocaust.” According to David Stannard 
h in the century after the Conquest, the population declined by 75 million across 


8S 



I 

South America, representing 95% of its inhabitants (1992:268-305).This is also the est jJ 
mate of Andre Gunder Frank who writes that “within little more than a century, 
Indian population declined by ninety percent and even ninety-five percent in Mexico ' 
Peru, and some other regions’* (1978: 43). In Mexico, the population fell “from II 
lion in 1519 to 6.5 million in 1565 to about 2.5 million in 1600” (Wallerstein 1974:89n) 
By 1580 “disease... assisted by Spanish brutality, had killed oft or driven away most of tl^ 
people of the Antilles and the lowlands of New Spain, Peru and the Caribbean littoral** 
(Crosby: 1972:38), and it would soon wipe out many more in Biazil.The clergy rational¬ 
ized this “holocaust" as God’s punishment for the Indians* “bestial" behavior (Williamj 
1986: 138); but its economic consequences were not ignored. In addition, by the 158Q^ 
population began to decline also in western Europe, and continued to do so into the 17th 
century, reaching a peak in Germany where one third of the population was lost. 56 

With the exception of the Black Death (1345-1348), this was a population crisis 
without precedents, and statistics, as awful as they are, tell only a part of the story. Death 
struck at “the poor." It was not the rich, for the most part, who perished when the plague 
or the smallpox swept the towns, but craftsmen, day-laborers and vagabonds (Kanien 
1972: 32-33). They died in such numbers that their bodies paved the streets, and the 
authorities denounced the existence of a conspiracy, instigating the population to hunt 
for the malefactors. But the population decline was also blamed on low natality rates and 
the reluctance of the poor to repioduce themselves. To what extent this charge was jus¬ 
tified is difficult to tell, since demographic recording, before the 17* century,, was rather 
uneven. But we know that by the end of the 16th century the age of marriage was increas¬ 
ing in all social classes, and that, in the same period, the number of abandoned children 
— a new phenomenon —started to giow.We also have the complaints of ministers who 
from die pulpit charged that the youth did not marry and procreate, in order not to bring 
more mouths into the world than they could feed. 

The peak of the demographic and economic crisis were the decades of the 1620s 
and 1630s. In Europe, as in the colonies, markets shrank, trade stopped, unemployment 
became widespread, and for a while there was the possibility that the developing capi¬ 
talist economy might crash. For the integiation between the colonial and European 
economies had reached a point where the reciprocal impact of the crisis rapidly accel- | 
erated its course.This was the first international economic crisis. It was a “General Crisi*»J 
as historians have called it (Kamen 1972: 307ff.; Hackett Fischer 1996: 91). 

It is in this context that the question of the relation between labor, population, and 
the accumulation of wealth came to the foreground of political debate and stiategy *° | 
produce the first elements of a population policy and a “bio-power" regime. 57 The crude¬ 
ness of the concepts applied, often confusing “populousness" with “population," and the 
brutality of the means by which the state began to punish any behavior obstructing P°P“ 
ulation growth, should not deceive us in this respect. It is my contention that it was th®| 
population crisis of the 16^ and 17 th centuries, not the end of famine in Europe in tb*l 
18th (as Foucault has argued) that turned repioduction and population growth into 
matters,as well as primary objects of intellectual discourse. 58 1 further argue that the intett*j 
sification of the persecution of“witches," and the new disciplinary methods that the 
adopted in this period to regulate procreation and break women’s control over rep* 0 ^ 
duction, are also to be traced to this crisis.The evidence for this argument is circun^^B 


86 





I 


j and it should be recognized that other factors contributed to increase the determi- 
qoii of the European power-structure to control more strictly women’s reproductive 
junction. Among them, we must include the increasing privatization of property and eco- 
OIU ic reladons that (within the bourgeoisie) generated a new anxiety concerning the 
u esdon of paternity and the conduct of women. Similarly, in the charge that witches sac- 
rturd children to the devil — a key theme in the “great witch-hunt” of the 16* and 17* 
centuries — we can read not only a preoccupation with population decline, but also the 
(t . ir of the propertied classes with regard to their subordinates, particularly low-class 
N voinen who,as servants,beggars or healers,had many opportunities to enter their employ¬ 
es'houses and cause them harm. It cannot be a pure coincidence, however, that at the 
^ry moment when population was declining, and an ideology was forming that stressed 
the centrality of labor in economic life, severe penalties were introduced in the legal codes 
of Europe to punish women guilty of reproductive crimes. 

The concomitant development of a population crisis, an expansionist population 
theory, and the introduction of policies promoting population g owth is well-docu¬ 
mented. By the mid-16* century the idea that the number of citizens determines a 
nation s wealth had become something of a social axiom. “In my view,” wrote the French 
political thinker and demonologist Jean Bodin,“one should never be afraid of having too 
many subjects or too many citizens, for the strength of the commonwealth consists in 
men” (Commonwealth, BookVI).The Italian economist Giovanni Botero (1533-1617) had 
a more sophisticated approach, recognising the need for a balance be ween the number 
ofpeople and the means of subsistence. Still, he declared that that “the greatness of a city” 
did not depend on its physical size or the circuit of its walls, but exclusively on the num¬ 
ber of its residents. Henry IV s saying that “the strength and wealth of a king lie in the 
number and opulence of his citizens” sums up the demographic thought of the age. 

Concern with population growth is detectable also in the program of the Protestant 
Reformation. Dismissing the traditional Christian exaltation of chastity, the Reformers 
valorized marriage, sexuality, and even women because of their reproductive capacity. 
Woman is “needed to bring about the increase of the human race,” Luther conceded, 
reflecting that “whatever their weaknesses, women possess one virtue that cancels them 
all: they have a womb and they can give birth” (King 1991: 115). 

Support for population growth climaxed with the rise of Mercantilism which made 
the presence of a large population the key to the prosperity and power of a nation. 
Mercantilism has often been dismissed by mainstream economists as a crude system of 
thought because of its assumption that the wealth of nations is proportional to the quan¬ 
tity of laborers and money available to them. The brutal means which the mercantilists 
applied in order to force people to work, in their hunger for labor, have contributed to 
t^eir disrepute, as most economists wish to maintain the illusion that capitalism fosters free- 
j 111 rather than coercion. It was a mercantilist class that invented the work-houses, hunted 
AN n vagabonds, “transported” criminals to the American colonies, and invested in the 
Ve ^de, all the while asserting the “utility of poverty” and declaring “idleness” a social 
^KUe Thus, it has not been recognized that in the mercantilists’ theory and practice we 

le most direct expression of the requirements of primitive accumulation and the first 
Th * 1St P olic Y explicitly addressing the problem of the eproduction of the work-force. 
s Policy, as we have seen, had an “in tensive "side consisting in die imposition of a total- 


87 



itarian regime using every means to extract the maximum of work from every individual 
regardless of age and condition. But it also had an “extensive one" consisting in the e ff 0r ^ 
to expand the size of population, and thereby the size of the army and the work-force. 

As Eli Hecksher noted,“an almost fanatical desire to increase population prevailed 
in all countries during the period when mercantilism was at its heighten the later p^! 
of the 17th century" (Heckscher 1966: 158). Along with it, a new concept of human- 
beings also took hold, picturing them as just raw materials, workers and breeders for the 
state (Spengler 1965: 8). But even prior to the heyday of mercantile theory, in Fra nCe 
and England the state adopted a set of pro-natalist measures that, combined with Publi c 
Relief’ formed the embryo of a capitalist reproductive policy. Laws were passed that put 
a premium on marriage and penalized celibacy, modeled on those adopted by the late 
Roman Empire for this purpose.The family was given a new importance as the key insti¬ 
tution providing for the transmission of property and the reproduction of the work¬ 
force. Simultaneously, we have the beginning of demograpliic recording and the inter¬ 
vention of the state in the supervision of sexuality, procreation, and family life. 

But the main initiative that the state took to restore the desired population ratio 
was the launching of a true war against women clearly aimed at breaking the control 
they had exercised over their bodies and reproduction. As we will see later in this vol¬ 
ume, this war was waged primarily through the witch-hunt that literally demonized any 
form of birth-control and non-procreative sexuality, while charging women with sacri¬ 
ficing children to the devil. But it also relied on the redefinition of what constitutes a 
reproductive crime. Thus, starting in the mid-16th century, while Portuguese ships were 
returning from Africa with their first human cargoes, all the European governments 
began to impose the severest penalties against contraception, abortion and infanticide. 

This last practice had been treated with some leniency in the Middle Ages, at least 
in the case of poor women; but now it was turned into a capital crime, and punished 
more harshly than the majority of male crimes. 

In sixteenth century Nuremberg, the penalty for maternal infanticide 
was drowning; in 1580, the year in wliich the severed heads of three 
women convicted of maternal infanticide were nailed to the scafFold 
for public contemplation, the penalty was changed to beheading (King 
1991: 10)60 

New forms of surveillance were also adopted to ensure that pregnant women did | 
not terminate their pregnancies. In France, a royal edict of1556 required women to && 
ister every pregnancy, and sentenced to death those whose inf ants died bef ore baptism 
after a concealed delivery, whether or not proven guilty of any wrongdoing. SinOT® 
statutes were passed in England and Scotland in 1624 and 1690. A system of spies 
also created to surveil unwed mothers and deprive them of any support. Even hostiojl 
an unmarried pregnant woman was made illegal, for fear that she might escape the J 
lie scrutiny; while those who befriended her were exposed to public criticism (Wies nCf 
1993: 51-52; Ozment 1983: 43). 

As a consequence women began to be prosecuted in large numbers, and nl0lf 
were executed for inf anticide in 16th and 17th-century Europe than for any other crin lC * 



xC ept for witchcraft, a charge that also centered on the killing of children and other 
e lations of reproductive norms. Significantly, in the case of both infanticide and witch- 
^ the statutes limiting womens legal responsibility were lifted.Thus, women walked, 
\ the first time, into the courtrooms of Europe, in dieir own name as legal adults, under 
barge of being witches and chiJd murderers. Also the suspicion under which midwives 
C ^ ie j n ^ period — leading to the entrance of the male doctor into the delivery room 
stemmed more from the authorities’ fears of infanticide than from any concern with 
the nudwives’ aJleged medicaJ incompetence. 

Widi the marginalization of the midwife, the process began by which women lost 
^he control diey had exercised over procreation, and were reduced to a passive role in 
child delivery, whiJe male doctors came to be seen as the true “givers oflife”(asin the 
alchemical dreams of die Renaissance magicians). With diis shift, a new medicaJ practice 
also prevailed, one that in the case of a medical emergency prioritized die life of the fetus 
over that of the mother. This was in contrast to the customary birthing process which 
women had controlled; and indeed, for it to happen, die community of women that had 
gathered around the bed of the future mother had to be first expelled from the delivery 
room, and midwives had to be placed under the surveilJance of the doctor, or had to be 
recruited to police women. 

In France and Germany, midwives had to become spies for the state, if they wanted 
to continue their practice. They were expected to report aJl new births, discover the 
fathers of children bom out of wedlock, and examine the women suspected of having 
secredy given birth. They also had to examine suspected local women for any sign of 
lactation when foundlings were discovered on the Church’s steps (Wiesner 1933: 52). 
The same type of collaboration was demanded of relatives and neighbors. In Protestant 
countries and towns, neighbors were supposed to spy on women and report all relevant 
sexual details: if a woman received a man when her husband was away, or if she entered 
a house with a man and shut the door behind her (Ozment 1983:42-44). In Germany, 
the pro-natalist crusade reached such a point that women were punished if they did not 
make enough of an effort during child-delivery or showed little enthusiasm for their off¬ 
spring (Rublack 1996: 92). 

The outcome of these policies diat lasted for two centuries (women were still being 
executed in Europe for infanticide at the end of the 18 t}l century) was the enslavement 
of women to procreation. WhiJe in the Middle Ages women had been able to use vari¬ 
ous forms of contraceptives, and had exercised an undisputed control over die birthing 
Process, from now on dieir wombs became public territory, controlled by men and the 
stat ^and procreation was directly placed at die service of capitalist accumulation. 

In this sense, the destiny ofWest European women, in the period of primitive 
Cumulation, was similar to that of female slaves in the American colonial plantations 
'''ho, especially after the end of the slave-trade in 1807, were forced by their masters to 
^ ec ome breeders of new workers. The comparison has obviously serious limits. 
r °Pean women were not openly delivered to sexual assaults — though proletarian 
en could be raped with impunity and punished for it. Nor had they to suffer the 

of seeing their children taken away and sold on the auction block. The economic 
sen 0eriVe< ^ from the births imposed upon them was also far more concealed. In this 
’ ]t is the condition of the enslaved woman that most explicitly reveals the truth 


89 




Albrecht 
Diirer, Thh 
Birth otmn 
Virgin 
(1502-1503). 
Child-birth 
mu one of the 
main events in 
tlte life of n 
woman and an 
occasion in 
which female 
cooperation tri¬ 
umphed. 




The mastulinization of 
medical practice is por¬ 
trayed in this English 
design picturing an 
angel pushing a female 
healer aunty from the 
bed of a sick man.The 
bfitmer detiounccs her 
incompetence. 


90 










I 


the logic of capitalist accumulation. But despite the differences, in both cases, the 
female body was turned into an instrument for the reproduction of labor and the expan- 
^ 0Jl of the work-force, treated as a natural breeding-machine, functioning according to 
r hythms outside of women’s control. 

This aspect of primitive accumulation is absent in Marx’s analysis. Except for his 
^inarks in the Communist Manifesto on the use of women within the bourgeois family — 
as pjoducers of heirs guaranteeing the transmission of family property — Marx never 
acknowledged that procreation could become a terrain of exploitation and by the same 
token a terrain of resistance. He never imagined that women could refuse to reproduce, 
or that such a refusal could become part of class struggle. In the Crundrisse (1973:100) he 
ar gued that capitalist development proceeds irrespective of population numbers because, 
by virtue of the increasing productivity of labor, the labor that capital exploits constantly 
diminishes * n relation to “constant capital” (that is, the capital invested in machinery and 
other production assets), with the consequent determination of a “surplus population.” 
But this dynamic, which Marx defines as the “law of population typical of the capitalist 
mode of production” [CapitaiVo\. 1:689ff.), could only prevail if procreation were a purely 
biological process, or an activity responding automatically to economic change, and if cap¬ 
ital and the state did not need to worry about “women going on strike against child mak- 
ing.”This, in fact, is what Marx assumed. He acknowledged that capitalist development 
has been accompanied by an increase in population, of which he occasionally discussed 
the causes. But, like Adam Smith, he saw this increase as a “natural effect” of economic 
development, and in Capital, Vol.l, he repeatedly contrasted the determination of a “sur¬ 
plus population” with the population s “natural increase ”Why procreation should be “a 
fact of nature” rather than a social, historically determined activity, invested by diverse 
interests and power relations, is a question Marx did not ask. Nor did he imagine that men 
and women might have different interests with respect to child-making, an activity which 
he treated as a gender-neutral, undifferentiated process. 

In reality, so far are procreation and population changes fiom being automatic or 
“natural” that, in ail phases of capitalist development, the state has had to resort to reg¬ 
ulation and coercion to expand or reduce the work-force.This was especially true at the 
time of the capitalist take-off, when the muscles and bones of workers were the primary 
means of production. But even later — down to the present — the state has spared no 
efforts in its attempt to wrench from womens hands the control over reproduction, and 
t0 determine which children should be born, where, when, or in what numbers. 
Consequently, women have often been forced to procreate against their will, and have 
experienced an alienation from their bodies, their“labor,” and even their children,deeper 
jhan that experienced by any other workers (Martin 1987:19-21). No one can describe 
ln fact the anguish and desperation suffered by a woman seeing her body turn against 
^ er self»as it must occur in die case of an unwanted pregnancy. This is particularly true 
m t ^ l ° se situations in which out-of-wedlock pregnancies are penalized, and when hav- 
ln 8 a child makes a woman vulnerable to social ostracism or even death. 


91 



The Devaluation of Women's Labor 


The criminalization of women’s control over procreation is a phenomenon whos* 
importance cannot be overemphasized, both from the viewpoint of its effects on won^J 
and its consequences for the capitalist organization of work. As is well documented 
through the Middle Ages women had possessed many means of contraception, mostly 
consisting of herbs which turned into potions and “pessaries” (suppositories) were 
to quicken a woman’s period, provoke an abortion, or create a condition of sterili y. ^ 
Eve’s Herbs: A History of Contraception in the West (1997), the American historian J 0 |m 
Riddle has given us an extensive catalogue of the substances that were most used zni 
the effects expected of them or most likely to occur. 61 The criminalization of conn*, 
cepdon expropriated women from this knowledge that had been transmitted from gen, 
eration to generation, giving them some autonomy with respect to child-birth. It appeal* 
diat, in some cases, this knowledge was not lost but was only driven underground; ye* 
when birth contiol again made its appearance on the social scene, contraceptive meth¬ 
ods were no longer of the type that women could use, but were specifically created fof 
use by men. What demographic consequences followed from this shift is a question that 
for the moment I will not pursue, though I refer to Riddle’s work for a discussion of his 
matter Here I only want to stress that by denying women control over dieir bodies, the 
state deprived them of the most fundamental condition for physical and psychological 
integrity and degraded maternity to the status of forced labor, in addition to confining 
women to reproductive work in a way unknown in pievious societies. Nevertheless,forc¬ 
ing women to procreate against their will or (as a feminist song from the 1970s had it) 
forcing them to “ produce children for the state,” 62 only in part defined women’s func¬ 
tion in the new sexual division of labor. A complemen ary aspect was the definition of 
women as non-workers, a process much studied by feminist historians, which by the end 
of the 17 th century was nearly completed. 

By this time women were losing ground even with respect to jobs that had been 
their prerogatives, such as ale-brewing and midwifery, where their employment was sub¬ 
jected to new restrictions. Proletarian women in particular found it difficult to obtain 
any job other than those carrying the lowest statuses domestic servants (the occupation 
of a third of the female work-force), farm-hands, spinners, knitters, embroiderers, hawk¬ 
ers, wet nurses. As Merry Wiesner (among others) tells us, the assumption was gaining 
ground (in the law, in the tax records, in the oixiinances of the guilds) that women should 
not work outside the home, and should engage in “production” only in order to help 
their husbands. It was even argued that any work that women did at home was “non- 
work” and was worthless even when done for the market (Wiesner 1993:83ff).Thus,# 
a woman sewed some clothes it was “domestic work” or “housekeeping,” even if 
clothes were not for the family, whereas when a man did the same task it was codrfB 


ered “productive." Such was the devaluation of women’s labor that city governments 


told 


the guilds to overlook the production that women (especially widows) did in thei* 
homes, because it was not real work, and because the women needed it not to fall 
public relief. Wiesner adds that women accepted this fiction and even apologized 
asking to work, pleading for it on account of their need to support themselves 


92 





T) ie prostitute and the sol - 
Her. Often a campfollower, 
the prostitute performed the 
fraction of a uHfefor sol¬ 
diers and other proletarians , 
noshing and cooking for the 
,nen she served in addition 
to providing sexual services. 


A prostitute inviting a client .The 
number of prostitutes increased 
immensely in the aftermath of 
land privatization and the com¬ 
mercialization of agriculture which 
expelled many peasant women 
front the land. 














84-85). Soon all female work, if done in the home, was defined as^ousekeeping^j^J 
even when done outside the home it was paid less than men’s work, and never enouj3 
for women to be able to live by it. Marriage was now seen as a woman’s true career, 
women’s inability to support themselves was taken so much for granted, that when a sii^ 
gle woman tried to settle in a village, she was driven away even if she earned a wage 

Combined with land dispossession, this loss of power with regard to wage employ 
ment led to the massification of prostitution. As Le Roy Ladurie reports, the growth ln 
the number of ptostitutes in France was visible everywhere: 

From Avignon to NaTbonne to Barcelona “sporting women "(femmes de 
debauchc) stationed themselves at the gates of the cities, in streets of red- 
light districts... and on the bridges... [so that] by 1594 the “shameful 
traffic” was nourishing as never before (Le RoyLadurie 1974:112-13). 

The situation was similar in England and Spain, where, everyday, in the cities, poor 
women arriving from the countryside, and even the wives of craftsmen, rounded up the 
family income with this work. A proclamation issued by the political authorities in 
Madrid, in 1631 Renounced the problem, complaining that many vagabond women were 
now wandering among the city’s streets, alleys, and taverns, enticing men to sin with them 
(Vigil 1986:114-5). But no sooner had prostitution become the main form of subsistence 
for a large female population than the institutional attitude towards it changed.Whereas 
in the late Middle Ages it had been officially accepted as a necessary evil, and prostitutes 
had benefited from the high wage regime, in the 16^ century, the situation was reversed. 
In a climate of intense misogyny, characterized by the advance of the Protestant 
Reformation and witch-hunting, prostitution was first subjected to new restrictions and 
then criminalized. Everywhere, between 1530 and 1560, town brothels were closed and 
prostitutes, especially street-walkers, were subjected to severe penalties: banishment, 
ging, and other cruel forms of chastisement. Among them was “the ducking stool" or 
actibussade —“a piece of grim theatre,” as Nickie Roberts describes it — whereby thd V1C " 
dins were tied up, sometimes they were forced into a cage, and then were repeatedly 
immersed in rivers or ponds, till they almost drowned (Roberts 1992: 115-16)* 
Meanwhile, in 16th-century France, the raping of a prostitute ceased to be a crime. 63 1® 
Madrid, as well, it was decided that female vagabonds and prostitutes should not be allowed 
to stay and sleep in the streets and under the pordcos of the town, and if caught shouH 
be given a hundred lashes, and then should be banned from the city for six years in 
don to having their heads and eyebrows shaved. 

What can account for this drasdc attack on female workers? And how does d* 
exclusion of women from the sphere of socially recognized work and monetary relation* 
relate to the impositon of forced maternity upon them, and the contemporary ma* 5 *®* 
cation of the witch-hunt? 

Looking at these phenomena from the vantage point of the present, after four ctOr j 
turies of capitalist disciplining of women, the answers may seem to impose themselvcM 
Though women’s waged work, housework, and (paid) sexual work are still studied all 1 
of ten in isolation from each other, we are now in a better position to see that the 
crimination that women have suffered in the waged work-force has been directly roo*^ 



I 


t | K *ir function as unpaid laborers in the home. We can thus connect the banning of 
fostitution and the expulsion of women from the organized workplace with the cre¬ 
ation of the housewife and the reconstruction of the family as the locus for the produc- 
o0 i 1 of labor-power. However, from a theoretical and a political viewpoint, the funda¬ 
mental question is under what conditions such degradation was possible, and what social 
fcrces promoted it or were complicitous with it. 

The answer here is that an important factor in the devaluation of women's labor 
nras the campaign that craft workers mounted, starting in the late century, to 
exclude female workers from their work-shops, presumably to protect themselves 
from the assaults of the capitalist merchants who were employing women at cheaper 
iates. The craftsmen’s efforts have left an abundant trail of evidence. 64 Whether in 
Italy, France, or Germany, journeymen petitioned the authorities not to allow women 


A prostitute 
being subjected 
to the torture 
of the accabus - 
*de.«She will 
be submerged 
«the river 
timm 
a,l d then 

""Prisoned fa 

life.- 



. 


9S 





Like the “battle for the 
breeches ” the image o f 
the domineering urife 
challenging the sexual 
hierarc hy atid beating 
her husbatid was one of 
the favorite targets of 
16th and 17th-century 
social literature. 



to compete with them, banned them from their ranks, went on strike when the ban 
was not observed, and even refused to work with men who worked with women.lt 
appears that the craftsmen were also interested in limiting women to domestic wodt 
because, given their economic difficulties, “the prudent household management on 
the part of a wife*’was becoming for them an indispensable condition for avoiding 
bankruptcy and for keeping an independent shop. Sigrid Brauner (the author of the 
above citation) speaks of the importance accorded |?y the German artisans to «W| 
social rule (Brauner 1995; 96-97). Women tried to resist this onslaught, but — faced 
with the intimidating tactics male workers used against them — failed. Those who 
dared to work out of the home, in a public space and for the market, were portrayed 
as sexually aggressive shrews or even as “whores” and “witches” (Howell 19&®* 
182-83). 65 Indeed, there is evidence that the wave of misogyny that by the late l5 
century was mounting in the European cities — reflected in the male obsession 
the “battle for the breeches” and with the character of the disobedient wife, pic turC ^ 
in the popular literature in the act of beating her husband or riding on his back 
emanated also from this (self-defeating) attempt to drive women from the workpk®^ 
and from the market. 

On the other hand, it is clear that this attempt would not have succeeded if ^ 
authorities had not coopetated with it. But they obviously saw that it was in their i ntc ~l 
est to do so. For, in addition to pacifying the rebellious journeymen, the displacement 
women from the crafts provided the necessary basis for their fixation in reprodu^ 
labor and their utilization as low-waged workers in cottage industry. 


96 



Women: The New Commons and the Substitute 

for the Lost Land 

j ( vVa s from tliis alliance between the crafts and the uiban authorities, along with the con¬ 
tinuing privatization of land, that a new sexual division of labor or, better, a new “sexual 
contract," in Carol Pateman’s words (1988), was forged, defining women in terms — 
piothers, wives, daughters, widows — that hid their status as workers, while giving men 
fat access to women’s bodies, their labor, and the bodies and labor of their children. 

According to this new social-sexual contract, proletarian women became for male 
w0 rkers the substitute for the land lost to the enclosures, their most basic means of repro¬ 
duction, and a communal good anyone could appropriate and use at will. Echoes of this 
‘■primitive appropriation" can be heard in the concept of the “common woman" (Karras 
1989) which in the 16 th century qualified those who prostituted themselves. But in the 
new organization of work every woman (other than those privatized by bourgeois men) became 
a communal good , for once womens activities were defined as non-work, women’s labor 
began to appear as a natural resource, available to all, no less than the air we breathe or 
the water we drink. 

This was for women a historic defeat.With their expulsion from the crafts and the 
devaluation of reproductive labor poverty became feminized, and to enforce men’s “pri¬ 
mary appropriation" of women’s labor, a new patriarchal order was constructed, reduc¬ 
ing women to a double dependence: on employers and on men. The fact that unequal 
power relations between women and men existed even prior to the advent of capital¬ 
ism, as did a discriminating sexual division of labor, does not detract from this assess¬ 
ment. For in pre-capitalist Europe women’s subordination to men had been tempered 
by the fact that they had access to the commons and other communal assets, while in 
the new capitalist regime women themselves became the commons, as their work was defined 
as a natural resource, laying outside the sphere of market relations. 


The Patriarchy of the Wage 


Significant, in this context, are the changes that took place within the family which, in 
fihs period, began to separate from the public sphere and acquire its modern connota¬ 
tions as the main center for the reproduction of the work-force. 

The counterpart of the market, the instrument for the privatization of social rela 
* 0ns anc *’ above all, for the propagation of capitalist discipline and patriarchal rule, the 
1 * emerges in the period of primitive accumulation also as the most important insti¬ 
tution for the appropriation and concealment of women’s labor. 

see this in particular when we look at the working-class family.This is a sub- 
* at has been understudied. Previous discussions have privileged the family of prop- 
for^ men ’P laUs >bly because, at the time to which we are referring, it was the dominant 
Cs( anc * ^e model for parental and marital relations. There has also been more inter- 
Sl2 'j 1 &mily as a political institution than as a place of work. What has been empha- 
°f th t ^ en ’ 1S t ^ iat * n new b° ur g eo * s fairly, the husband became the representative 
st ate, charged with disciplining and supervising the “subordinate classes," a cate- 


97 


gory that for 16*h and 17 th -century political theorists (Jean Bodin, for example) include 
the man’s wife and his children (Schochet 1975). Thus, the identification of the fan^ 
as a micio-state or a micro-church, and the demand by the authorities that single wotfc 
ers live under the roof and rule of a master. It is also pointed out that witliin the bouf 
geois family the woman lost much of her power, being generally excluded from the 
ily business and confined to the supervision of the household. 

But what is missing in this picture is a recognition that, while in the upper class i* 
was property that gave the husband power over his wife and children, a similar power was 
granted to working-class men over women by means of tvomen's exclusion from the w## 

Exemplary of this trend was the family of the cottage workers in the putting-out 
system. Far from shunning marriage and f amily-making, male cottage workers depended 
on it, for a wife could ‘‘help 1 ’ them with the work they would do for the merchants 
while caring for their physical needs, and providing them with children, who ftom an 
early age could be employed at the loom or in some subsidiary occupation. Thus, even 
in times of population decline, cottage workers apparently continued to multiply; their 
families were so large that a contemporary 17 th -century Austrian, looking at those liv¬ 
ing in his village, described them as packed in their homes like sparrows on a rafter. What 
stands out in this type of arrangement is that though the wife worked side-by-side with 
her husband, she too producing for the market, it was the husband who now received 
her wage. This was true also for other female workers once they married. In England “a 
married man., was legally entitled to his wife’s earnings” even when the job she did was 
nursing or breast-feeding.Thus, when a parish employed women to do this kind ofjob, 
the records “frequendy hid (their) presence as workers” registering the payment made 
in the men’s names. “Whether the payment was made to the husband or to the wife 
depended on the whim of the clerk” (Mendelson and Crawford 1998: 287). 

This policy, making it impossible for women to have money of their own, created 
the material conditions for their subjection to men and the appropriation of their labor 
by male workers. It is in this sense that I speak of the patriarchy of the wage. We must also 
rethink the concept of“wage slavery.” If it is true that male workers became only for¬ 
mally free under the new wage-labor regime, the group of workers who, in the transi¬ 
tion to capitalism, most approached the condition of slaves was working-class women. 

At the same time — given the wretched conditions in which waged workers 
lived — the housework that women performed to reproduce their families was nec ~ 
essarily limited. Married or not, proletarian women needed to earn some money, 
which they did by holding multiple jobs. Housework, moreover, requires some repro¬ 
ductive capital: furniture, utensils, clothing, money for food. But waged workers ^ ve< ^ 
poorly, “slaving away by day and night” (as an artisan from Nuremberg denounced 
1524),just to stave offhunger and feed their wives and children (Brauner 1995: ^ 
Most barely had a roof over their heads, living in huts where other families and ***** 
mals also resided, and where hygiene (poorly observed even among the better 
was totally lacking; their clothes were rags, their diet at best consisted of bread, c ^ icC j| 
and some vegetables. Thus, we do not find in this period, among the working 
the classic figure of the full-time housewife. It was only in the 19th century * 
response to the first intense cycle of struggle against industrial work — that the “* n ° 
ern family” centered on the full-time housewife’s unpaid reproductive labor was &*** 


98 



in the working class, in England first and later in the United States. 

Its development (following the passage of Factory Acts limiting the employment of 
Ilie n and children in the factories) reflected the first long-term investment the capital- 
1 1 class made in the reproduction of the work-force beyond its numerical expansion. It 
the result of a trade-off, forged under the threat of insurrection, between the granting 
f higher wages, capable of supporting a “non-working** wife, and a more intensive rate of 
exploitation. Marx spoke of it as a shift from “absolute*’ to “relative surplus,** that is, a shift 
a type of exploitation based upon the lengthening of the working day to a maximum 
a0 d the reduction of the wage to a minimum, to a regime where higher wages and shorter 
hours would be compensated with an increase in the productivity of work and the pace 
of production. From the capitalist perspective, it was a social revolution, overriding a long- 
held conunitnient to low wages. It resulted from a new deal between workers and employ¬ 
ers, again founded on the exclusion of women from the wage — putting an end to their 
recruitment in the early phases of the Industrial Revolution. It was also the mark of a new 
capitalist affluence, the product of two centuries of exploitation of slave labor, soon to be 
boosted by a new phase of colonial expansion. 

In the 16^ and 17 th centuries, by contrast,despite an obsessive concern with the size 
of population and the number of“working poor,** the actual investment in the reproduc¬ 
tion of the work-force was extremely low. Consequently, the bulk of the reproductive labor 
done by proletarian women was not for their families, but for the families of their employ¬ 
ers or for the market. One third of the female population, on average, in England, Spain, 
France, and Italy, worked as maids.Thus, in the proletariat, the tendency was towards the 
postponment of marriage and the disintegration of the family (16^-centuty English vil¬ 
lages experienced a yearly turnover of fifty percent). Often the poor were even forbidden 
to marry, when it was feared that their children would fall on public relief, and when this 
actually happened, the children were taken away from them and farmed out to the parish 
to work. It is estimated that one third or more of the population of rural Europe remained 
single; in the towns the rates were even higher, especially among women; in Germany,forty 
percent were either “spinsters** or widows (Ozment 1983: 41—42) - 

Nevertheless — though the housework done by proletarian women was reduced 
to a minimum, and proletarian women had always to work for the market — within the 
working-class community of the transition period we already see the emergence of the 
sexual division of labor that was to become typical of the capitalist organization of work. 
At its center was an increasing differentiation between male and female labor, as the tasks 
performed by women and men became more diversified and, above all, became the car- 
ners of different social relations. 


Impoverished and disempowered as they may be, male waged workers could still 
ne “ t from their wives’ labor and wages, or they could buy the services of prostitutes, 
nroughout this first phase of proletarianization, it was the prostitute who often per¬ 
ked for male workers the function of a wife, cooking and washing for them in addi- 
to serving them sexually. Moreover, the criminalization of prostitution, which pun- 
1, r ^ t " e woman b ut hardly touched her male customers, strengthened male power. Any 
1 could now destroy a woman simply by declaring that she was a prostitute, or by 
lci2 ing that she had given in to his sexual desires. Women would have to plead with 


Pub!* 

nien“ 


not to take away their honor**(the only property left to them) (Cavallo and Cerutti 


99 


1980: 346ff), the assumption being that their lives weie now in the hands of men 
(like feudal lords) could exercise over them a power of life and death. 


The Taming of Women and the Redefinition of Femininity 
and Masculinity: Women the Savages of Europe 

It is not surprising, then, in view of this devaluation of women's labor and social status 
that the insubordination of women and the methods by which they could be “tam e d* 
were among the main themes in the literature and social policy of the “transition* 
(Underdown 1985a: 116-36). 7 °Women could not have been totally devalued as work-1 
ers and deprived of autonomy with respect to men without being subjected to an intense 
piocess of social degradation; and indeed, throughout the 16* h and 17 th centuries, women 
lost ground in every area of social lif e. 

A key area of change in tliis respect was the law, where in this period we can 
observe a steady erosion of women's rights. 71 One of the main rights that women lost 
was the right to conduct economic activities alone, as femme soles . In France, they lost 
the right to make contracts or to represent themselves in court, being declared legal 
“imbeciles/’In Italy, they began to appear less frequently in the courts to denounce abuses 
perpetrated against them. In Germany, when a middle-class woman became a widow,k 
became customary to appoint a tutor to manage her affairs. German women were abo 
forbidden to live alone or with other women and, in the case of the poor, even with their 
own families, since it was expected that they would not be properly controlled. In sum* 
together with economic and social devaluation, women experienced a process of legal 
infantilizadon. 

Women’s loss of social power was also expressed through a new sexual differenti¬ 
ation of space. In the Mediterranean countries women were expelled not only from 
many waged jobs but also from the streets, where an unaccompanied woman risked being 
subjected to ridicule or sexual assault (Davis 1998). In England, too, (“a women s para¬ 
dise” in die eyes of some Italian visitors), the presence of women in public began to be 
frowned upon. English women were discouraged from sitting in front of thei r homes or 
staying near their windows; they were also instructed not to spend time with their female 
friends (in tliis period the term “gossip” — female friend — began to acquire a dis- 
paraging connotation). It was even recommended that women should not visit their P ar “ 
ents too often after marriage. 

How the new sexual division of labor reshaped male-female relations can be seco 
from the broad debate that was carried out in the learned and popular literature on d* 
nature of female virtues and vices, one of the main avenues for the ideological redefinition 
of gender ielations in the transition to capitalism. Known from an early phase as “la 
des femmes," what transpires from this debate is a new sense of curiosity for the subjcA j 
indicating that old norms were breaking down, and the public was becoming aware 
the basic elements ofsexual politics were being reconstructed.Two trends within this debflJH 
can be identified. On the one hand, new cultural canons were constructed maximizing 
differences between women and men and creating more feminine and more inascumg 
prototypes (Fortunad 1984). On the other hand, it was established that women were inh*® 


lOO 




ently inferior to men — excessively emotional and lusty, unable to govern themselves — 
and had to be placed under male control. As with the condemnation of witchcraft, con¬ 
sensus on this matter cut across religious and intellectual lines. From the pulpit or the writ¬ 
ten page, humanists, Protestant reformers, counter-reformation Catholics, all cooperated 
in the vilification of women, constantly and obsessively. 

Women were accused of being unreasonable, vain, wild, wasteful. Especially blamed 
was the female tongue, seen as an instrument of insubordination. But the main female vil¬ 
lain was the disobedient wife, who, together with the "scold,” the “witch,"and the” whore” 
was the favorite target of dramatists, popular writers, and moralists. In this sense, 
Shakespeares 77 te Taming of the Shrew (1593) was the manifesto of the age. The punish¬ 
ment of female insubordination to patriarchal authority was called for and celebrated in 
countless misogynous plays and tracts. English literature of the Elizabethan and Jacobean 
period feasted on such themes.Typical of this genre is John Ford s '77s a Pity She's a Whore 
(1633) wliich ends with the didactic assassination, execution and murder of three of the 
^ 0Ur feniale characters. Other classic works concerned with the disciplining of women 
^ John Swetnams Arraignment of Lewed, Idle, Forward, Iruonstant Women (1615); and 77 \e 
Parliament ofWomen( 1646),a satire primarily addressed against middle class women, which 
Portrays them as busy making laws in order to gain supremacy over their husbands. 7 * 
canwhile, new laws and new forms of torture were intioduced to control womens 
aVlor in and out of the home, confirming that the liteiary denigration of women 
^*P**ssed a piecise political project aiming to strip them of any autonomy and social 
er> In the Europe of the Age of Reason, the women accused of being scolds were 
j e ^ 2 e d li^ e dogs and paraded in the streets; prostitutes were whipped, or caged and sub- 
of a t0 drowning*, while capital punishment was established for women convicted 
ultery (Underdown 1985a: 117ff). 



It is no exaggeration to say that women were treated with the same hostility ^ 
sense of estrangement accorded ‘‘Indian savages” in the literature that developed on thjj 
subject after the Conquest. The parallel is not casual. In both cases literary and cultu^j 
denigration was at the service of a project of expropriation. As we will see, the dem<^ 
nization of the American indigenous people served to justify their enslavement andth* 
plunder of their resources. In Europe, the attack waged on women justified the app^ 
priation of their labor by men and the criminalization of their control over reprodu c 
tion. Always, the price of resistance was extermination. None of the tactics deploy^ 
against European women and colonial subjects would have succeeded, had they not been 
sustained by a campaign of terror. In the case of European women it was the witch-hunt 
that played the main role in the construction of their new social function, and the degta^ 
dation of their social identity. 

The definition of women as demonic beings, and the atrocious and humiliating 
practices to which so many of them were subjected left indelible marks in the collective 
female psyche and in women s sense of possibilities. From every viewpoint — social^ 
economically, culturally, politically — the witch-hunt was a turning point in women’s 
lives; it was the equivalent of the historic defeat to which Engels alludes, in The Origin of 
the Family, Private Property and the State (1884), as the cause of the downfall of the matri- 


Frontis piece o f Thu 
Parliament or Women 
(1646), a work typical of the 
anti-women satire that domi- 
rvtted English Literature in the 
period o f the Civil Wat 



THE o 

Parliament of Women. 

With the mcrric Lawcs by them newly 
Fruited. Tolive in more Eafe, Porojv, PrkJe, 
and : K* cipedafty dut Hky rrijrf* farvrJu- 

faftanj*: »»h anew wa* 

fewd a 5 b> flarm m ovt a*? <■ «• < mi 

wi nut dxv uda 

-nd ImaS <*nr 


Lmdm. Priranl W am! arr to be fald t* him m 

*4tJ in I kl't C*nb' h m rm ti i |fl 

ijf • 







I 




f hal world For the witch-hunt destroyed a whole world of female practices, collective 


^j 3 ti 0 ns, and systems of knowledge diat had been the foundation of womens power in 
pre-capitalist Europe, and the condition for their resistance in the struggle against feu¬ 
dalism 

Out of this defeat a new model of femininity emerged: the ideal woman and wife 
^ passive* obedient, thrifty, of few words, always busy at work, and chaste. This change 

at the end of the 17 th century, after women had been subjected for more than two 
cen turies to state terrorism. Once women were defeated, the uuage of femininity con- 
striked in the “transition" was discarded as an unnecessary tool, and a new, tamed one 
took its place. While at the time of the witch-hunt women had been portrayed as savage 
beings, mentally weak, unsatiably lusty, rebellious, insubotdinate, incapable of self-control, 
by the 18 th century the canon has been reversed. Women were now depicted as passive, 
asexual being*, more obedient, more moral than men, capable of exerting a positive moral 
influence on them. Even their irrationality could now be valorized, as die Dutch philoso¬ 
pher Pierre Bayle realized in his Dictionaire Historique et Critique (1740), in which he praised 
the power of the female “maternal instinct,” arguing that that it should be viewed as a truly 
providential device, ensuring that despite the disadvantages of childbirthing and childrais- 
ing, women do continue to reproduce. 


| Colonization. Globalization, and Women 

While the response to die population crisis in Europe was the subjugation of women to 
reproduction, in colonial America, where colonization destroyed ninety five percent of 
the aboriginal population, the response was the slave trade which delivered to the 
European ruling class an immense quantity of labor-power. 

As early as the 16 th century, approximately one million African slaves and indige¬ 
nous workers were producing surplus-value for Spain in colonial America, at a rate of 
exploitation far higher than that of workers in Europe, and contributing to sectors of the 
European economy that were developing in a capitalist direction (Blaut 1992a: 45-46)73 
By 1600, Brazil alone exported twice the value in sugar of all the wool that England 
exported in the same year (ibid.: 42).The accumulation rate was so high in the Brazilian 
plantations that every two years they doubled their capacity. Gold and silver too 
played a key role in the solution to the capitalist crisis. Gold imported from Brazil re¬ 
activated commerce and industry in Europe (DeVries 1976:20). More than 17,000 tons 
Were imported by 1640, giving the capitalist class there an exceptional advantage in access 
t0 workers, commodities, and land (Blaut 1992a: 38-40). But the true wealth was the 
kb° r accumulated through the slave trade, which made possible a mode of production 
c °uld not be imposed in Europe. 

It is now established that the plantation system fueled the Industrial Revolution, 
ar 8ued by Eric Williams, who noted that hardly a brick in Liverpool and Bristol was 
^^mented with African blood (1944:61-63). But capitalism may not even have taken 
^rthout Europe’s “annexation of America” and the “blood and sweat” that for two 
Juries flowed to Europe from the plantations. Tliis must be stressed, as it helps us 
ue how essential slavery has been for the history of capitalism, and why, periodi- 


103 



cally, but systematically, whenever the capitalist system is threatened by a major er ^l 
nomic crisis, the capitalist class has to launch a process of t4 primitive accumulation,** 
is, a process of large-scale colonization and enslavement, such as the one we are ^ 
nessing at present (Bales 1999). 

The plantation system was crucial for capitalist development not only because 
of the immense amount of surplus labor that was accumulated from it, but because 
set a model of labor management, export-oriented production, economic integration 
and international division of labor that have since become paradigmatic for capital 
ist class relations. 

With its immense concentration of workers and its captive labor force uprooted 
from its homeland, unable to rely on local support, the plantation prefigured not only 
the factory but also the later use of immigration and globalization to cut the cost oflabor. 

In particular, the plantation was a key step in the formation of an international division 
oflabor that (through the production of “consumer goods") integrated the work of the 
slaves into the reproduction of the European work-force, while keeping enslaved and 
waged workers geographically and socially divided. 

The colonial production of sugar, tea, tobacco, rum,and cotton — the most impor¬ 
tant commodities, together with bread, in the production of labor-power in Europe — 
did not take off on a large scale until after the 1650s, after slavery had been institution¬ 
alized and wages in Europe had begun to (modestly) rise (Rowling 1987: 51,76,85).lt 
must be mentioned here, however, because, when it did take off, two mechanisms were 
introduced that significantly restructured the reproduction of labor internationally. On 
one side, a global assembly line was created that cut the cost of the commodities neces¬ 
sary to produce labor-power in Europe, and linked enslaved and waged workers in ways 
that pre-figured capitalism's present use of Asian, African, and Latin American worken^ 
as providers of “cheap "“consumer" goods (cheapened by death squads and military vio¬ 
lence) for the “advanced"capitalist countries. 

On the other side, the metropolitan wage became the vehicle by which the goods 
produced by enslaved workers went to the market, and the value of the product <» 
enslaved-labor was realized. In this way, as with female domestic work, the integration 
of enslaved labor into the production and repioduction of the metropolitan work-torce 
was further established, and the wage was further redefined as an instrument of accumu¬ 
lation, that is, as a lever for mobilizing not only the labor of the workers paid by it, 
also for the labor of a multitude of workers hidden by it, because of the unwaged con¬ 
ditions of their work. 

Did workers in Europe know that they were buying products resulting from sbtffcjB 
labor and, if they did, did they object to itPThis is a question we would like to ask thcfl^® 
but it is one wiiich I cannot answer. What is certain is that the history of tea, sugar, rum* 
tobacco, and cotton is far more significant than we can deduce from the contributio* 1 ® 
which these commodities made, as raw materials or means of exchange in the 
trade, to the rise of the factory system. For what traveled with these "exports” was n0 *1 
only the blood of the slaves but the seeds of a new science of exploitation, and a nC *l 
division of the working class by which waged-work, rather than providing an altefflj 
tive to slavery, was made to depend on it for its existence, as a means (like 




I 


iin paid labor) for the expansion of the unpaid part of the waged working-day. 

So closely integrated were the lives of the enslaved laborers in America and waged 
^borers hi Europe that in the Caribbean islands, where slaves were given plots of land 
/•‘provision grounds*') to cultivate for their own use, how much land was allotted to 
and how much time was given to them to cultivate it, varied in proportion to the 
ric e of sugar on the world-market (Morrissey 1989: 51—59) — plausibly determined 
j,y the dynamics of workers* wages and workers* struggle over reproduction. 

It would be a mistake, however, to conclude that the integration of slave labor in 
t h e pioduction of the European waged proletariat created a conununity of interests 
between European workers and the metropolitan capitalists, presumably cemented by 
jbeir common desire for cheap imported goods. 

In reality, like the Conquest, the slave trade was an epochal misfortune for 
Euiopean workers. As we have seen, slavery (like the witch-hunt) was a major ground of 
experimentation for methods of labor-control that were later imported into Europe. 
Slavery also affected the European workers’ wages and legal status; for it cannot be a coin¬ 
cidence that only with the end of slavery did wages in Europe decisively increase and 
did European workers gain the right to organize. 

It is also hard to imagine that workers in Euiope profited from the Conquest of 
America, at least in its initial phase. Let us remember that it was the intensity of the anti- 
feudal struggle that instigated the lesser nobility and the merchants to seek colonial 
expansion, and that the conquistadors came from the ranks of the most-hated enemies 
of the European working class. It is also important to remember that the Conquest pro¬ 
vided the European ruling class with the silver and gold used to pay the mercenary armies 
that defeated the urban and rural revolts; and that, in the same years when Arawaks, 
Aztecs,and Incas were being subjugated, workers in Europe were being driven from their 
homes, branded like animals, and burnt as witches. 

We should not assume, then, that the European pioletariat was always an accom¬ 
plice to the plunder of the Americas, though individual proletarians undoubtedly were. 
The nobility expected so little cooperation from the “lower classes” that initially the 
Spaniards allowed only a few to embark. Only 8,000 Spaniards migrated legally to the 
Americas in the entire 16 th century, the clergy making up 17% of the lot (Hamilton 1965: 
299;Willianis 1984:38—40). Even later, people were forbidden from settling overseas inde¬ 
pendently, because it was feared that they might collaborate with the local population. 

For most proletarians, in the 17 th and 1 H^x centuries, access to the New World was 
through indentured servitude and “transportation,” the punishment which the authori¬ 
ses in England adopted to rid the country of convicts, political and religious dissidents, 
* n d tbe vast population of vagabonds and beggars that was produced by the enclosures. 

. ^ eter Linebaugh and Marcus Rediker point out in 77/e Many-Headed Hydra (2000), 
c colonizers’ fear of unrestricted migration was well-founded, given the wretched liv- 
n i> conditions that prevailed in Europe, and die appeal exercised by the reports that cir- 
f rc ab out the New World, which pictured it as a wonder land where people lived 
Phc k° m t0 ^ aiK ^ t y rann y’ masters and greed, and where ”myne” and “thyne” had no 
cc, ^ t j l j tl g S b eiI1 g held in conunon (Linebaugh and Rediker 2000; Brandon 1986: 

So strong was the attraction exercised by the New World that the vision of a new 


lOS 





s. 


society it provided apparently influenced the political thought of the Enlightenm e 
contributing to the emergence of a new concept of “liberty/ 1 taken to signify masteB 
lessness, an idea previously unknown in European political theory (Brandon 19 g|J| 
23-28). Not surprisingly,some Europeans tried to**lose themselves ri in this utopian worlj 
where,as Linebaugh and Rediker powerfully put it, they could reconstruct the lost exp^ 
rience of the commons (2000: 24). Some lived for years with Indian tribes despite ^ 
restrictions placed on those who settled in the American colonies and the heavy p^ 
to be paid if caught, since escapees were treated like traitors and put to death. This 
the fate of some young English settlers in Virginia who, having run away to live 
the Indians, on being caught were condemned by the colony’s councilmen t o ^ 
“burned, broken on the wheel... [and] hanged or shot to death” (Koning 1993: 61) 
“Terror created boundaries,” Linebaugh and Rediker comment (2000:34). Yet, as late a* 
1699, the English still had a great difficulty persuading the people whom the Indians had 
captivated to leave their Indian manner of living. 


No argument, no entreaties, no tears [a contemporary reported]... 
could persuade many of them to leave their Indian friends. On the other 
hand, Indian children have been carefully educated among the English, 
clothed and taught, yet there is not one instance that any of these would 
remain, but returned to their own nations (Koning 1993:60). 

As for the European proletarians who signed themselves away into indentured 
servitude or arrived in the New World in consequence of a penal sentence, their lot was 
not too different, at first, from that of the African slaves with whom they often worked 
side by side.Their hostility to their masters was equally intense, so that die planters viewed 
them as a dangerous lot and, by the second half of the 17 th century, began to limit their 
use and introduced a legislation aimed at separating them from the Africans. But only at 
the end of the 18 th century were racial boundaries irrevocably drawn (Moulier Boutang 
1998). Until then, the possibility of alliances between whites, blacks, and aboriginal peo¬ 
ples, and the fear of such unity in the European ruling class 1 imagination, at home and 
on the plantations, was constantly present. Shakespeare gave voice to it in The Tempo* 
(1612) where he pictured the conspiracy organized by Caliban, the native rebel, son of 
a witch, and by Trinculo and Stephano, the ocean-going European proletarians, sug¬ 
gesting the possibility of a fatal alliance among the oppressed, and providing a dramatic 
counterpoint to Prospero’s magic healing of the discord among the lulers. 

In The Tempest the conspiracy ends ignominiously, with the European proletari¬ 
ans demonstrating to be nothing better than petty thieves and drunkards, and 
Caliban begging forgiveness from his colonial master.Thus, when the defeated rebels ^ 
brought in front of Prospero and his former enemies Sebastian and Antonio (now i®®* 
onciled with him), they are met with derision and thoughts of ownership and division 


SEBASTIAN. What things are these, my lord Antonio? 
Will money buy them? 


106 


, 


ANTONIO. Very like; one of them is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marchetable. 

PROSPERO. Mark but the badges of these men, my lords. 

Then say if they be true. This mis-shapen knave. 

His mother was a witch, and one so strong 
That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs. 

And deal in her conunand without her power. 

These three have robbed me; and this demi-devil— 

For he's a bastard one — had plotted with them 

To take my life. Two of these fellows you 

Must know and own. This thing of darkness I 

Acknowledge mine. (Shakespeare, Act V, Scene 1, lines 265-276) 

Offstage, however, the threat continued. “Both on Bermuda and Barbados white 
servants were discovered plotting with African slaves, as thousands of convicts were being 
shipped there in the 1650s from the British islands" (Rowling 1987:57). In Virginia the 
peak in the alliance between black and white servants was Bacon’s Rebellion of1675-76, 
when African slaves and British indentured servante joined together to conspire against 
their masters. 

It is for tliis reason that, starting in the 1640s, the accumulation of an enslaved pro¬ 
letariat in the Southern American colonies and the Caribbean was accompanied by the 
construction of racial hierarchies, thwarting the possibility of such combinations. Laws 
were passed depriving Africans of previously granted civic rights, such as citizenship, the 
right to bear arms, and the right to make depositions or seek redress in a tribunal for 
injuries suffered.The turning point was when slavery was made an hereditary condition, 
and the slave masters were given the right to beat and kill their slaves. In addition, mar¬ 
riages between “blacks" and “whites" were forbidden. Later, after the American War of 
Independence, wliite indentured servitude, deemed a vestige of British rule, was elimi¬ 
nated. As a result, by the late 18^* century, colonial America had moved from “a society 
with slaves to a slave society" (Moulier Boutang 1998: 189), and the possibility of soli¬ 
darity between Africans and whites had been severely undermined. “White," in the 
colonies, became not just a badge of social and economic privilege “serving to designate 
those who until 1650 had been called ‘Christians’ and afterwards‘English’ or‘free men’" 
194), but a moral attribute, a means by which social hegemony was naturalized. 

Black" or “African," by contrast, became synonymous with slave, so much so that free 
black people — still a sizeable presence in early 17 th -century America — were later 
f Qr ced to prove that they were free. 


Sex. Race and Class in the Colonies 
^ ex, Race, and Class in the Colonies 

° u ^d Caliban’s conspiracy have had a different outcome had its protagonists been 
^°nien? Had the instigators been not Caliban but his mother, Sycorax, the powerful 
St f r *n witch that Shakespeare hides in the play’s background, and notTrinculo and 
Phano but the sisters of the witches who, in the same years of the Conquest, were 


107 



I 


being burned in Europe at the stake? 

This question is a rhetorical one, but it serves to question the nature of the Se ^ 
ual division of labor in the colonies, and of the bonds that could be established ^ 
between European, indigenous, and African women by virtue of a common experieiw 
of sexual discrimination. 


In /, Tituba, Black Witch of Salem (1992), Maryse Conde gives us an insight 
the kind of situation that could produce such bonding, by describing how Tituba an< j 
her new mistress, the Puritan Samuel Parris'young wife, gave each other support at 
against his murderous contempt for women. 

An even more outstanding example comes from the Caribbean, where low-clajj 
English women “transported" from Britain as convicts or indentured servants became 
a significant part of the labor-gangs on the sugar estates. “Considered unfit for njJ 
riage by propertied white males, and disqualified for domestic service," because of their 
insolence and riotous disposition, “landless white women were dismissed to manual 
labor in plantations, public construction works, and the urban service sector. In these 
worlds they socialized intimately with the slave community, and with enslaved black 
men." They established households and had children with them (Beckles 1995 : 
131-32).They also cooperated as well as competed with female slaves in the market¬ 
ing of produce or stolen goods. 

But with the institutionalization of slavery, which was accompanied by a lessen¬ 
ing of the burden for white workers, and a decrease in the number of women arriving 
from Europe as wives for the planters, the situation changed drastically. Regardless of 
their social origin, white women were upgraded, or married off'within the ranks of the 
white power structure, and whenever possible they became owners of slaves themselves,, 
usually female ones, employed for domestic work (ibid.)." 7 * 

This, however, was not an automatic process. Like sexism, racism had to be legis¬ 
lated and enforced. Among the most revealing prohibitions we must again count that 
marriage and sexual relations between blacks and whites were forbidden, white women 
who married black slaves were condemned, and the children resulting from such mar¬ 
riages were enslaved for life. Passed in Maryland and Virginia in the 1660s, these laws 
prove that a segregated, racist society was instituted from above, and that intimate rela¬ 
tions between “blacks" and “whites" must have been very common, indeed, if life* 
enslavement was deemed necessary to terminate them. 

As if following the script laid out by the witch-hunt, the new laws demonized the 
relation between white women and black men.When they were passed in the 1660s,the 
witch-hunt in Europe was comingto an end, but in America all the taboos surroundiflfr 


the witch and the black devil were being revived, this time at the expense of black 

“Divide and rule"also became official policy in the Spanish colonies, after a period 
when the numerical inferiority of the colonists recommended a more liberal atonal 
towards inter-ethnic relations and alliances with the local chiefs through marriage. Bww 


in the 1540s, as the increase in the number of mestizos was undermining colonial P rl ^l 
lege, “race" was established as a key factor in the transmission of property, and a rad* l I 
hierarchy was put in place to separate indigenous, mestizos, and mulattos from each 
and from the white population (Nash 1 980)75 Prohibitions relating to marriage *^1 
female sexuality served here, too, to enforce social exclusion. But in Spanish Aim*ri<* 


zi female slave being branded. 
TJ,c branding of women by the 
del'll bad figured prominently in 
the European Mich-trials, as a 
symbol of fond subjugation. But 
in nudity, the true devils were 
thetvhite slave traders and 
plantation oivners udio (like the 
mat in this picture) did not lies - 
itate to treat the women they 
cnsbtvcd like cattle. 



se regadon along racial lines succeeded only in part, checked by migration, population 
decline, indigenous revolt, and the formation of a white urban proletariat with no 
prospect of economic advancement, and therefore prone to identify with mestizos and 
mulattos more than with the white upper-class. Thus, while in the plantation societies 
of the Caribbean the differences between European and Africans increased with time, 
111 the South American colonies a “re-composition” became possible, especially among 
low-class European, mestizo , and African women who, beside their precarious economic 
Position, shared the disadvantages deriving from the double standard built into the law, 
w hich made them vulnerable to male abuse. 

Signs of this “recomposition” can be found in the records which the Inquisition 
^ Pt in 18tiu ce ntury Mexico of the investigations it conducted to eradicate magical and 
eret * c beliefs (Behar 1987: 34-51).The task was hopeless, and soon the Inquisition lost 
|^ erest in the project, convinced that popular magic was no longer a threat to the polit- 
order. But the testimonies it collected reveal the existence of multiple exchanges 
® Women in matters relating to magical cures and love remedies, creating in time 
i . cu ltural reality diawn from the encounter between the African, European and 
gCn °us magical traditions. As Ruth Behar writes: 


109 



Indian women gave hummingbirds to Spanish healers for use in sex¬ 
ual attraction, mulatta women told mestiza women how to tame their 
husbands, a loba sorceress introduced a coyota to the Devil.This”pop- 
ular”system of belief ran parallel to the system of belief of the Church, 
and it spread as quickly as Christianity did in the New World, so that 
after a while it became impossible to distinguish in it what was 
“Indian“or “Spanish*’ or “African” (ibid.) 76 

Assimilated in the eyes of the Inquisition as people “without reason,” this varie* 
gated female world which Ruth Behar describes is a telling example of the alliances that, 
across colonial and color lines, women could build, by virtue of their common experi¬ 
ence, and their interest in sharing the traditional knowledges and practices available to 
them to control their reproduction and fight sexual discrimination. 

Like discrimination on the basis of “race,” this was more than a cultural bag^ge 
which the colonizers brought from Europe with their pikes and horses. No less than 
the destruction of communalism, it was a strategy dictated by specific economic inter* 
est and the need to create the preconditions for a capitalist economy, and as such always 
adjusted to the task at hand. 

In Mexico and Peru, where population decline recommended that female 
domestic labor in the home be incentivized, a new sexual hierarchy was introduced 
by the Spanish authorities that stripped indigenous women of their autonomy, and 
gave their male kin more power over them. Under the new laws, married women 
became men’s property, and were forced (against the traditional custom) to follow their 
husbands to their homes. A compadrazgo system was also created further limiting their 
rights, placing the authority over children in male hands. In addition, to ensure that 
indigenous women reproduced the workers recruited to do mita work in the mino» 
the Spanish authorities legislated that no one could separate husband from wife, which 
meant that women were forced to follow their husbands whether they wanted it or 
not, even to areas known to be death camps, due to the pollution created by the min¬ 
ing (Cook Noble 1981:205-6). 77 

The intervention of the French Jesuite in the disciplining and training of the 
Montagnais-Naskapi, in mid-17* h century Canada, provides a revealing example of how 
gender differences were accumulated.The story is told by the late anthropologist Eleanor 
Leacock in her Myths of Male Dominance (1981), where she examines the diary ot one 
of its protagonists.This was Father Paul Lejeune, a Jesuit missionary who, in typical cok>S| 
nial fashion, had joined a French trading post to Christianize the Indians,and turn thd* 
into citizens of “New France “The Montagnais-Naskapi were a nomadic Indian nation 
that had lived in gieat harmony, hunting and fishing in the eastern Labrador Peninstffe 4 1 
But by the time of Le Jeune’s arrival, their community was being undermined by 
presence of Europeans and the spread of fur-trading, so that some men, eager to strike J 
commercial alliance with them, were amenable to letting the French dictate how Wl 
should govern themselves (Leacock 1981:39ff). 

As often happened when Europeans came in contact with native Americ^, 
populations, the French were impressed by Montagnais-Naskapi generosity. 



I 


e iise °f cooperation and indifference to status, but they were scandalized by their 
*iack of morals;" they saw that the Naskapi had no conception of private property, 
0 f authority, of male superiority, and they even refused to punish their children 
Peacock 1981:34-38).TheJesuits decided to change all that, setting out to teach the 
Indians the basic elements of civilization, convinced that this was necessary to turn 

into reliable trade partners. In this spirit, they first taught them that "man is the 
ia ster,” that “in France women do not rule their husbands," and that courting at 
night, divorce at either partners desire, and sexual freedom for both spouses, before 
0 r alter marriage, had to be forbidden. Here is a telling exchange Le Jeune had, on 
this score, with a Naskapi man: 

"1 told him it was not honorable for a woman to love anyone else 
except her husband, and that this evil being among them, he himself 
was not sure that his son, who was present, was his son. He 
replied, Thou has no sense. You French people love only your chil¬ 
dren; but we love all the children of our tribe.* I began to laugh see¬ 
ing that he philosopliized in horse and mule fashion** (ibid.: 50). 

Backed by the Governor of New France, the Jesuits succeeded in convincing die 
Naskapi to provide themselves widi some chiefs, and bring “their** women to order. 
Typically, one weapon they used was to insinuate that women who were too independ¬ 
ent and did not obey dieir husbands were creatures of the devil. When, angered by the 
men’s attempts to subdue them, the Naskapi women ran away, the Jesuits persuaded the 
men to chase after dieir spouses and threaten them with imprisonment: 

"Such acts of justice** — Lejeune proudly commented in one particu¬ 
lar case —"cause no surprise in France,because it is usual there to pro¬ 
ceed in that manner. But among these people... where everyone consid¬ 
ers himself from birth as free as the wild animals that roam in their great 
forests... it is a marvel, or rather a miracle, to see a peremptory command 
obeyed, or any act of severity or justice performed** (ibid.: 54). 

The Jesuits* greatest victory, however, was persuading the Naskapi to beat their 
children, believing that the "savages* ** excessive fondness for their offspring was the major 
obstacle to their Christianization. Le Jeune’s diary records the first instance in which a 
&id Was publicly beaten, while one of her relatives gave a chilling lecture to the bystanders 
on the historic significance of the event :"This is the first punishment by beating (he said) 
inflict on anyone of our Nation...*’ (ibid.: 54-55). 

The Montagnais-Naskapi men owed their training in male supremacy to the fact 
t the French wanted to instill in them the "instinct" for private property, to induce 
. em to become reliable partners in the fur trade.Very diff erent was the situation on the 
^tions, where the sexual division of labor was immediately dictated by the planters* 
^Ruirenients for labor-power, and by the price of commodities produced by the slaves 
° n ( he international market. 

Until the abolition of the slave trade, as Barbara Bush and Marietta Morrissey have 


111 


documented, both women and men were subjected to die same degree of exploitation; the 
planters found it more profitable to work and “consume” slaves to death than to encouraJM 
their reproduction. Neither the sexual division oflabor nor sexual hierarchies were thus pj^ 
nounced. African men had no say concerning the destiny of their female companions an<j 1 
kin; as for women, far from being given special consideiation, they were expected to wot^ 
in the fields like men, especially when sugar and tobacco were in high demand, and they 
were subject to the same cruel punislunents, even when pregnant (Bush 1990; 42^44). 

Ironically then, it would seem that in slavery women “achieved” a rough equalityl 
with the men of their class (Momsen 1993). But their treatment was never the same* 
Women were given less to eat; unlike men, they were vulnerable to their masters’ sexual 
assaults; and more cruel punisliment were inflicted on them, for in addition to die phys- ' 
ical agony women had to bear the sexual humiliation always attached to them and the 
damage done, when pregnant, to the fetuses they carried. 

A new page, moreover, opened after 1807, when the slave trade was abolished and 
the Caribbean and American planters adopted a “slave breeding” policy. As Hilary 
Beckles points out, in relation to the island of Barbados, plantation owners had attempted 
to control the reproductive patterns of female slaves since the 17 th century, “[encourag¬ 
ing] them to have fewer or more children in any given span of time,” depending on how 
much field labor was needed. But only when the supply of African slaves diminished did 
the regulation of women’s sexual relations and reproductive patterns become more sys¬ 
tematic and intense (Beckles 1989: 92). 

In Europe, forcing women to procreate had led to the imposition of capital pun¬ 
ishment for contraception. In the plantations, where slaves were becoming a precious 
commodity, the shift to a breeding policy made women more vulnerable to sexual assault, 
though it led to some “ameliorations” of women’s work conditions: a reduction of work- 
hours, the building of lying-in-houses, the provision of midwives assisting the delivery, 
an expansion of social rights (e.g., of travel and assembly)(Beckles: 1989: 99-100; Bush 
1990: 135). But these changes could not reduce the damages inflicted on women by 
field-labor, nor the bitterness women experienced because of their lack of freedom.With 
the exception of Barbados, the planters’ attempt to expand the work-f orce th rough “nat¬ 
ural reproduction” failed, and the birth rates on the plantations remained “abnormally 
low” (Bush 136-37; Beckles 1989, ifc/d.). Whether this phenomenon was a result of out- 1 
right resistance to the perpetuation of slavery, or a consequence of the physical debili- J 
tation produced by the harsh conditions to which enslaved women were subjected, is 
still a matter of debate (Bush 1990: 143ff). But, as Bush points out, there are good rea¬ 
sons to believe that the main cause of the failure was the refusal of women to procreate, 
for as soon as slavery was eradicated, even when their economic conditions in some 
respect deteriorated, the communities of freed slaves began to grow (Bush 1990). 78 

Women’s refusals of victimization also reshaped the sexual division of labor, as 
occurred in Caribbean islands where enslaved women turned themselves into semi-free 
market vendors of the products they cultivated in the “provision grounds” (in Jamaica* ] 
“polinks”), given by the planters to the slaves so that they could to support themselves. 
The planters adopted this measure to save on the cost of reproducing labor. But access 
to the “provision grounds” turned out to be advantageous for the slaves as well; it gave < 


112 



I 


them more mobility, and the possibility to use the time allotted for their cultivation for 
0 ther activities. Being able to produce small ctops that could be eaten or sold boosted 
t j ie ir independence. Those most devoted to the success of the provision gtounds were 
vV omen, who marketed the crops, re-appropriating and reproducing within the planta¬ 
tion system what had been one of their main occupations in Africa. As a result, by the 
uiid-lH lh centur y* enslaved women in the Caribbean had carved out for themselves a 
place in the plantation economy, contributing to the expansion, if not the creation, of 
( hc island’s food market. They did so both as producers of much of the food consumed 
hy the slaves and the white population, and also as hucksters and market vendors of the 
crops they cultivated, supplemented with goods taken from the master’s shop, or 
exchanged with other slaves, or given to them for sale by their masters. 

It was in this capacity that female slaves also came into contact with white prole¬ 
tarian women, often former indentured servants, even af ter the latter had been removed 
from gang-labor and emancipated.Their relationship at times could be hostile: proletar¬ 
ian European women, who also survived mostly through the growing and marketing of 
food crops, stole at times the products that slave women brought to the market, or 
attempted to impede their sales. But both groups of women also collaborated in build¬ 
ing a vast network of buying and selling relations which evaded the laws passed by the 
colonial authorities, who periodically worried that these activities may place the slaves 
beyond their control. 

Despite the legislation introduced to prevent them from selling or limiting the 
places in which they could do so, enslaved women continued to expand their market¬ 
ing activities and the cultivation of their provision plots, which they came to view as 
their own so that, by the late 18 lh century, they were forming a proto-peasantry with 
practically a monopoly of island markeis.Thus, according to some liistorians, even before 
emancipation, slavery in the Caribbean had practically ended. Female slaves — against 
all odds — were a key force in this process, the ones who, with their determination, 
shaped the development of the slave community and of the islands’ economies, despite 
the authorities’ many attempts to limit their power. 

Enslaved Caribbean women had also a decisive impact on the culture of the white 
population, especially that of white women, through their activities as healers, seers, 
experts in magical practices, and their “domination” of the kitchens, and bedrooms, of 
their masters (Bush 1990). 

Not surprisingly, they were seen as the heart of the slave community.Visitors were 
impressed by their singing, their head-kerchieft and dresses, and their extravagant man- 
ner of speaking which are now understood as a means of satirizing their masters. African 
an d Creole women influenced the customs of poor female whites, whom a contempo- 
*^*7 portrayed as behaving like Africans, walking with their children strapped on their 
h| ps, while balancing trays with goods on their heads (Beckles 1989:81). But their main 
achievement was the development of a politics of self-reliance, grounded in survival 
strategies and female networks. These practices and the values attached to them, wliich 
^osalynTerborg Penn has identified as the essential tenets of contemporary African fem- 
lmSm , redefined the African community of the diaspora (pp. 3—7). They created not oiUy 
foundations fora new female African identity, but also the foundations for a new 


113 


I 





Above: A ftmiiiy of slaves (detail)- 
Enslaved tvomett struggled to con¬ 
tinue the activities they had carried 
on in Africa, such as marketing the 
produce they grew, udiich enabled 
them to better support their fami¬ 
lies and achieve some autotionry. 
(From Barbara Bush, 1990.) 

Below:A festive gathering on a 
West Indian plantation . Women 
were the heart of such gatherings 
as they wire the heart of the 
enslaved community, and the 
stauruhest defenders of the culture 
brought from Africa. 


114 












jociety committed — against the capitalist attempt to impose scarcity and dependence 
structural conditions of life — to the re-appropriation and concentration in women’s 
k an ds of the fundamental means of subsistence, starting from the land, the production of 
f 0 od and the inter-generational transmission of knowledge and cooperation. 


| Capitalism and the Sexual Divison of Labor 

/Vs this brief history of women and primitive accumulation has shown, the construction 
0 f a new patriarchal order, making of women the servants of the male work-force, was 
a major aspect of capitalist development. 

On its basis a new sexual division of labor could be enforced that difFeientiated not 
on ly die tasks that women and men should perform, but their experiences, their lives, 
their relation to capital and to other sectors of the working class. Thus, no less than the 
international division of labor, the sexual division of labor was above all a power-relation, 
a division within the work-f orce, while being an immense boost to capital accumulation. 

This point must be emphasized, given the tendency to attribute the leap capital¬ 
ism brought about in the productivity of labor only to the specialization of work-tasks. 
In reality, the advantages which the capitalist class derived from the differentiation 
between agricultural and industrial labor and within industrial labor itself— celebrated 
in Adam Smith’s ode to pin-making — pale when compared to those it derived from 
die degradation of women’s work and social position. 

As 1 have argued, the power-difference between women and men and the con¬ 
cealment of women’s unpaid-labor under the cover of natural inferiority, have enabled 
capitalism to inunensely expand the “unpaid part of the working day,’’and use the (male) 
wage to accumulate women’s labor; in many cases, they have also served to deflect class 
antagonism into an antagonism between men and women. Thus, primitive accumula¬ 
tion has been above all an accumulation of differences, inequalities, hierarchies, divisions, 
which have alienated workers fiom each other and even from themselves. 

As we have seen, male workers have often been complicitous with this process, as 
they have tried to maintain their power with respect to capital by devaluing and disci¬ 
plining women, children, and the populations the capitalist class has colonized. But the 
power that men have imposed on women by virtue of their access to wage-labor and their 
recognized contribution to capitalist accumulation has been paid at the price of self-alien- 
atl °n,and the “primitive disaccumulation” of their own individual and collective powers. 

In the next chapters 1 further examine tliis disaccumulation process by discussing 
three key aspects of transition from feudalism to capitalism: the constitution of the pro¬ 
letarian body into a work-machine, the persecution of women as witches, and the cre- 
atlon Ravages” and “cannibals” both in Europe and the New World. 


11S 


| Endnotes 

1. Peter Blickle objects to the concept of a “peasant war" because of the social COn ^ 
position of this revolution, which included many artisans, miners, and intellectual 
among its ranks.The Peasant War combined ideological sophistication, expressed 
in the twelve “articles" which the rebels put forward, and a powerful military orgaj^ 
ization.The twelve “articles" included: the refusal of bondage, a reduction ofth e 
tithes, a tepeal of the poaching laws, an affirmation of the rights to gather wo<x^ a 
lessening of labor services, a reduction of rents, an affirmation of the rights to use 
the common, and an abolition of death taxes (Bickle 1985: 195-201). The except 
tional military prowess demonstrated by the rebels depended in part on the par¬ 
ticipation of professional soldiers in the revolt, including the Landsknechte — th e 
famous Swizz soldiers who, at the time, were the elite mercenary troops in Europe, 
The Landsknechte headed the peasant armies, putting their military expertise at 
their service and, in various occasions, tefused to move against the rebels. In one 
case, they motivated their refusal by arguing that they too came from the peasantry 
and that they depended on the peasants for their sustenance in times of peace.When 
it was clear that they could not be trusted, the German princes mobilized the troops 
of the Swabian League, drawn from more remote regions, to break the peasant 
resistance. On the history of the Landsknechte and their participation in the Peasant 
War, see Reinhard Baumann, / Lanzicheneahi (1994: 237-256). 

2. The Anabaptists, politically, represented a fusion of “the late medieval social move¬ 

ments and the new anti-clerical movement sparked offby the Reformation " Like 
the medieval heretics, they condemned economic individualism and greed and 
supported a form of Christian communalism.Their take-over of Munstet occurred 
in the wake of the Peasant War, when unrest and urban insurrections spread fro® 
Frankfurt to Cologne and other towns of Northern Germany. In 1531, the crafts 
took control of the city of Munster, renamed it New Jerusalem, and under the 
influence ofimmigrant Dutch Anabaptists, installed in it a communal government 
based upon the sharing of goods. As Po-Chia Hsia writes, the records of New 
Jerusalem were destroyed and its story has been told only by its enemies.Thus, we 
should not presume that events unfolded as narrated. According to the available 
records, women had at first enjoyed a high degree of freedom in the town; 
instance, “they could divorce their unbelieving husbands and enter into new mar " 
riages "Things changed with the decision by the reformed government to intro¬ 
duce polygamy in 1534, which provoked an “active resistance" among women, 
presumably repressed with imprisonment and even executions (Po-Chia 
1988a: 58-59). Why this decision was taken is not clear. But the episode tl eserV ^i 
more investigation, given the divisive role that the crafts played in the “transit* 0 * 1 
with regard to women.We know, in fact, that the craft campaigned in several coUl1 " 
tries to exclude women from the waged work-place, and nothing indicates 
they opposed the persecution of the witches. j J 

3. For the rise of the real wage and the fall of prices in England, see North aD> ^ 
Thomas (1973: 74). For Florentine wages, see Carlo M. Cipolla (1994: 206). F 0 * 


116 




die fall in the value of output in England see R. H. Britnel (1993: 156-171). On 
the stagnation of agricultuial production in a number of European countries, see 
B.H.SlicherVan Bath (1963:160-170). Rodney Hilton argues that this period saw 
“a contraction of the rural and industrial economies, .probably felt in the first 
place by the ruling class.... Seigneurial revenues and industrial and commercial 
profits began to fall.... Revolt in die towns disorganized industrial production and 
revolt in die countryside strengthened peasant resistance to the payment of rent. 
Rent and profits thus dropped even further” (Hilton 1985:240-241). 

On Maurice Dobb and the debate on the transition to capitalism, see Harvey J. 
Kaye, The British Marxist Historians. New York: St. Martin's Press, (1984), 23-69. 

, Critics of Marx’s concept oP*primitive accumulation” include: Samir Amin (1974) 

and Maria Mies (1986).While SamirAmin focusses on Marx’s Euiocentrism, Mies 
stresses Marx’s blindness to the exploitation of women. A different critique is found 
in Yann Moulier Boutang (1998) who faults Marx for generating the impression 
that the objective of the ruling class in Europe was to free itself from an unwanted 
work-force. Moulier Boutang underlines that the opposite was the case: land 
expropriation aimed to fix workers to their jobs, not to encourage mobility. 
Capitalism — as Moulier Boutang stresses — has always been primarily concerned 
with preventing the flight of labor (pp. 16-27). 

6. As Michael Perelman poinis out, the term "primitive accumulation” was actually 
coined by Adam Smith and rejected by Marx, because of its ahistorical character 
in Smith’s usage."To underscore his distance from Smith, Marx prefixed the pejo¬ 
rative ‘so-called’ to the title of the final part of the first volume of Capital , which 
he devoted to the study of primitive accumulation. Marx, in essence, dismissed 
Smith’s mythical ‘previous’ accumulation in order to call attention to the actual 
historical experience” (Perlman 1985: 25-26). 

7. On the relation between the historical and the logical dimension of "primitive 
accumulation” and its implications for political movements today see: Massimo 
De Angelis, "Marx and Primitive Accumulation. The Continuous Character of 
Capital‘Enclosures’.” In The Commoner: www.comnioner.org.uk; Fredy Perlman, 
The Continuing Appeal of Nationalism. Detroit: Black and Red, 1985; and Mitchel 
Cohen, “Fredy Perlman: Out in Front of a Dozen Dead Oceans” (Unpublished 
manuscript, 1998). 

For a description of the systems of the encomienda , mita, and catequil see (among 
others) Andre Guilder Frank (1978),4 5; Steve J. Stern (1982);and Inga Clendinnen 
(1987).As described by Guilder Frank, the encomienda was*‘a system under which 
rights to the labor of the Indian communities were granted to Spanish landown¬ 
ers” But in 1548, the Spaniards "began to replace the encomienda de servicio by the 
repartimiento (called catequil in Mexico and mita in Peru), which required the Indian 
community’s chiefs to supply the Spanish juez repartidor (distributing judge) with 
a certain number of days of labor per month. ...The Spanish official in turn dis¬ 
tributed this supply of labor to qualified enterprising labor contractors who were 
supposed to pay the laborers a certain minimum wage”(1978: 45). On the efforts 
of the Spaniards to bind labor in Mexico and Peru in the course of the various 


117 


stages of colonization, and the impact on it of the catastrophic collapse of the 
indigenous population, see again Gunder Frank (ibid,: 43-49). 

9. For a discussion of the “second serfdom” see Immanuel Wallerstein (1974) an d 
Henry Kamen (1971). It is important here to stress that the newly enserfed peas¬ 
ants were now producing for the international grain market. In other words, 
despite the seeming backward character of the work-relation imposed upon them, 
under the new regime, they were an integral part of a developing capitalist econ¬ 
omy and international capitalist division of labor. 

10. I am echoing here Marx’s statement in Capital >V 61.1Force... is in itself an eco¬ 
nomic power”(1909: 824). Far less convincing is Marx’s accompanying observa- 
tion, according to which:”Force is the midwife of every old society pregnant with 
a new one” (ibid.). First, midwives bring life into the world, not destruction. This 
methaphor also suggests that capitalism “evolved” out of forces gestating in the 
bosom of the feudal world — an assumption which Marx himself refutes in his 
discussion of primitive accumulation. Comparing force to the generative powers 
of a midwife also casts a benign veil over the process of capital accumulation, sug¬ 
gesting necessity, inevitability, and ultimately, progress. 

11. Slavery had never been abolished in Europe, surviving in pockets, mostly as female 
domestic slavery. But by the end of the 15 th century slaves began to be imported 
again, by the Portuguese, from Africa. Attempts to impose slavery continued in 
England through the 16di century, resulting (after the introduction of public relief) 
in the construction of work-houses and correction houses, which England pio¬ 
neered in Europe. 

12. See, on this point, Samir Amin (1974).To stress the existence of European slavery 
in the 16th and 17 th centuries (and after) is also important because this fact has 
been often “forgotten” by European historians. According to Salvatore Bono, this 
self-induced oblivion was a product of the “Scramble for Africa,” which was jus¬ 
tified as a mission aimed to terminate slavery on the African continent. Bono 
argues that Europe’s elites could not admit to having employed slaves in Europe, 
the alleged cradle of democracy. 

13. Immanuel Wallerstein (1974), 90-95; Peter Kriedte (1978), 69-70. 

14. Paolo Thea (1998) has powerfully reconstructed the history of the German artists 
who sided with the peasants. 

“During the Protestant Reformation some among the best 16 th -century 
German artists abandoned their laboratories to join the peasants in struggle- •• 
They draf ted documents inspired by the principles of evangelic poverty, the com¬ 
mon sharing of goods, and the redistribution of wealth. Sometimes... they took 
arms in support of the cause.The endless list of those who, after the military defeats 
of May-June 1525, met the rigors of the penal code, mercilessly applied by the 
winners against the vanquished, includes famous names. Among them are [Jorg] 
Ratget quartered in Pforzheim (Stuttgart), [Philipp] Dietman beheaded, and 
[Tilman] Riemenschneider mutilated — both in Wurzburg — [Matthias] 
Grunewald chased from the court of Magonza where he worked. Holbein the 
Young was so troubled by the events that he fled from Basel, a city that was torn 
apart by religious conflict.” [My translation] 


118 



Also in Switzerland.Austria, and the Tyrol artists participated in the PeasantWar, 
including famous ones like Lucas Cranach (Cranach the old) as well as myriad 
lesser painters and engravers (ibid.: 7).Thea points out that the deeply felt partic¬ 
ipation of the artists to the cause of the peasants is also demonstrated by the reval¬ 
uation of rural themes depicting peasant life — dancing peasants, animals, and flora 
— in contemporary 16 th -century German art (ibid.: 12-15; 73,79,80).“The coun¬ 
tryside had become animated... [it] had acquired in the uprising a personality 
worth of being represented’* (ibid.: 155). [My translation]. 

15 It was through the prism of the PeasantWar and Anabaptism that the European 
governments, through the 16 th and 17* centuries, interpreted and repressed every 
form of social protest. The echoes of the Anabaptist revolution were felt in 
Elizabethan England and in France, inspiring utmost vigilance and severity with 
regard to any challenge to the constituted authority."Anabaptist” became a cursed 
word, a sign of opprobrium and criminal intent, as “communist” was in the United 
States in the 1950s, and "terrorist” is today. 



Etiriy lib-century Centum engraving reviling the Anabaptists' belief in the 
communistic sharing of goods. 


Village authority and privileges were maintained in the hinterland of some city- 
states. In a number of territorial states, the peasants "continued to refuse dues, 
taxes, and labor services”; "they let me yell and give me nothing,” complained the 
abbot ofSchussenried, referring to those working on his land (Blickle 1985:172). 
In Upper Swabia, though serfdom was not abolished, some of the main peasant 




I 


grievances relating to inheritance and marriage rights were accepted with the 
Treaty of Menuningen of 1526. “On the Upper Rhine, too, some areas reached 
settlements that were positive for the peasants” (ibid.: 172-174). In Switzerland,in 
Bern and Zurich, serfdom was abolished. Improvements in the lot of the “com, 
mon man” were negotiated in Tyrol and Salzburg (ibid.: 176-179). But “the true 
child of the revolution” was the territorial assembly, instituted af ter 1525 in Upper 
Swabia, providing the foundation for a system of self-government that remained 
in place till the 19* century. New territorial assemblies emerged after 1525 “[real¬ 
izing) in a weakened form one of the demands of 1525: that the common man 
ought to be part of the territorial estates alongside the nobles, the clergy, and the 
towns.” Blickle concludes that “Wherever this cause won out, we cannot say that 
there the lords crowned their military conquest with political victory, [as] the 
prince was still bound to the consent of the common man. Only later, during the 
formation of the absolute state, did the prince succeed in freeing himself from that 
consent” (i bid.: 181-182). 

17. Referring to the growing pauperization brought about across the world by capi¬ 
talist development, the French anthropologist Claude Meillassoux, in Maidens, 
Meal and Money (1981), has argued that this contradiction spells a future crisis for 
capitalism: “In the end imperialism — as a means of reproducing cheap labor 
power — is leading capitalism to a major crisis, for even if there are still millions 
of people in the world...not directly involved in capitalist employment... how 
many are still capable owing to the social disruption, famine and wars it brings 
about, of producing their own subsistence and feeding their children?” (1981:140). 

18. The extent of the demogiaphic catastiophe caused by “the Columbian Exchange” 
is still debated. Estimates of the population decline in South and Central America, 
in the first post-Columbian century, range widely, but contemporary scholarly 
opinion is almost unanimous in likening its effects to an American Holocaust. 
Andre Gunder Frank writes that: “Within little more than a century, the Indian 
population declined by ninety percent and even ninety-five percent in Mexico, 
Peru, and some other regions” (1978: 43). Similarly, Noble David Cook argues 
that:“Perhaps 9 million people resided within the limits delineated by Peru’s con¬ 
temporary boundaries. The number of inhabitants remaining a century after con¬ 
tact was roughly a tenth of those that were there when the Europeans invaded the 
Andean world” (Cook 1981: 116). 

19. On the changes in the nature of war in early modern Europe see, Cunningham 
and Grell (2000), 95-102; Kaltner (1998). Cunningham and Grell write that: “In 
the 1490s a large army would have consisted of20,000 men,by the 1550s it would 
have been twice that, while towards the end of the Thirty Years War the leading 
European states would have field armies of close to 150,000 men” (2000:95). 

20. Albrecht Diirer’s engraving was not the only representation of the “Four 
Horsemen ”We have also one by Lucas Cranach (1522) and by Mattheus Merian 
(1630). Representations of battlefields, portraying slaughters of soldiers and civil¬ 
ians, villages in flames, rows of hanging bodies, are too numerous to mention. War 
is possibly the main theme of 16th and 17th-century painting, leaking into every 
representation, even those ostensibly devoted to sacred subjects. 


120 




Miittheus Men an, Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1630). 


21. This outcome reveals the two souls of the Reformation: a popular one and elidst 
one, which very soon split along opposite lines. While the conservative side of the 
Reformation stressed the virtues of work and wealth accumulation, the popular 
side demanded a society run by “godly love” equality, and communal solidarity. 
On the class dimensions of the Reformation see Henry Heller (1986) and Po- 
Chia Hsia (1988). 

22. Hoskins (1976),121-123. In England the pre-Reformation Church had owned 
twenty-five to thirty per cent of the country's real property., Of this land, Henry 
VIII sold sixty per cent (Hoskins 1976:121-123).Those who most gained from 
the confiscation and more eagerly enclosed the newly acquired lands were not the 
old nobility, nor those who depended on the commons for their keep, but the 
gentry and the “new men,” especially the lawyers and the merchants, who were 
the face of greed in the peasants' imagination (Cornwall 1977: 22-28). It was 
against these “new men" that the peasants were prone to vent their anger. A fine 
snapshot of the winners and losers in the great transfer of land produced by the 
English Reformation is Table 15 in Kriedte (1983: 60), showing that twenty to 
twenty-five per cent of the land lost to the Church became the gentry's property. 
Following are the most relevant columns. 


121 


Distribution of land by social croups in England and Wales: 



1436* 

1690 

Great owners 

15-20 

15-20 

Gentry 

25 

45-50 

Yeome n / freeholders 

20 

25-33 

Church and Crown 

25-33 

5-10 


[*excl. Wales] 

On the consequences of the Reformation in England for land tenure, see also 
Christopher Hill who writes: 

“We need not idealize the abbeys as lenient landlords to admit some truth ^ 
contemporary allegations that the new purchasers shortened leases, racked 
and evicted tenants....‘Do ye not know,* said John Palmer to a group of copy- 
holders he was evicting,'that the king’s grace hath put down all houses of monks, 
friars, and nuns, therefore now is the time come that we gentlemen will pull down 
the houses of such poor knaves as yet be? 1 ” (Hill 1958: 41). 

23. See Midnight Notes (1990); see also 77 te Ecologist (1993); and the ongoing debate on 

the “enclosures” and the “commons” in The Commoner, especially n.2, (September 
2001), and n.3., (January 2002). 

24. Primarily, “enclosure” meant‘‘surrounding a piece of land with hedges, ditches, or 

other barriers to the free passage of men and animals, the hedge being the mark 
of exclusive ownership and land occupation. Hence, by enclosure, collective land 
use, usually accompanied by some degree of conununal land ownership, would be 
abolished, superseded by individual ownership and separate occupation” (G. Slater 
1968: 1-2).There were a variety ways to abolish collective land use in the 15 th and 
16th centuries. The legal paths were (a) the purchase by one person of all tene¬ 
ments and their appurtenant common rights;” (b) the issuing by the King of a spe¬ 
cial license to enclose, or the passage of an enclosure act by the Parliament; (c) 1,1 
agreement between the landlord and tenants, embodied in a Chancery decree; (d) 
the making of partial enclosures of waste by the lords, under the provisions ofw 
Statutes of Merton (1235) and Westminister (1285). Roger Manning notes, how¬ 
ever, that these “legal methods... frequently concealed the use of force, fraud, ano 
intimidation against the tenants” (Manning 1998:25). E. D. Fryde, too, writes that 
“(pjrolonged harassment of tenants combined with threats of evictions at 
slightest legal opportunity” and physical violence were used to bring about tn& 
evictions “particularly during the disorder years 1450-85 [i.e., the War of th* 
Roses]” (Fryde 1996: 186). Thomas More’s Utopia (1516) expressed the 3009 
and desolation that these mass expulsions produced when he spoke of sheep 
had become so great devourers and so wild that “they eat up and swallow the 
men themselves.” “Sheep”— he added — that “consume and destroy and d eV ° 
whole fields, houses and cities.” 

25. In The Itweiition of Capitalism (2000), Michael Perelman has emphasized the intPyj 

tance of “customary rights” (e.g., hunting) noting how they were often of vita)*#! 



nificance* making the difference between survival and total destitution (pp. 38ff.). 
Garret Hardin’s essay on the "tragedy of the commons" (1968) was one of the 
mainstays in the ideological campaign in support of land privatization in the 1970s. 
The "tragedy,” in Hardin’s version, is the inevitability of Hobbesian egoism as a 
determinant of human behavior. In his view, in a hypothetical common, each 
herdsman wants to maximize his gain regardless of the implications of his action 
for the other herdsmen, so that “ruin is the destination to which all men rush, each 
pursuing his best interest” (In Baden and Noonan, eds., 1998: 8-9). 

27 The “modernization” def ense of the enclosures has a long history, but it has received 

new energy from neo-liberalism. Its main advocate has been the World Bank, which 
has often demanded that governments in Africa, Asia, Latin America and Oceania 
privatize communal lands as a condition for receiving loans (World Bank 1989). A 
classic defense of the productivity gains derived from enclosure is found in Harriett 
Bradley (1968, originally published in 1918). The more recent academic literature 
has taken a more even-handed “costs/gains” approach, exemplified by die works of 
G. E. Mingay (1997) and Robert S. Duplessis (1997:65-70).The batde concerning 
the enclosures has now crossed the disciplinary boundaries and is being debated also 
among literary scholars. An example of disciplinary border-crossing is Richard Burt 
and John Michael Archer, eds., Enclosure Acts. Sexuality Property and Culture in Early 
Modern England (1994) — especially the essays by James R. Siemon, “Landlord Not 
King: Agrarian Change and Interarticulation;” and William C. Carroll, “The 
Nursery of Beggary’: Enclosure,'Vagrancy, and Sedidon in theTudor-Stuart Period” 
William C. Canoll has found that there was a lively defense of enclosures and cri¬ 
tique of the commons in the Tudor period carried out by the spokesmen of the 
enclosing class. According to this discourse, the enclosuies encouraged private enter¬ 
prise, which in turn increased agricultural productivity, while die commons were 
the “nurseries and receptacles of thieves, rogues and beg^rs” (Carroll 1994:37-38). 

28. DeVries (1976), 42-43; Hoskins (1976), 11-12. 

29, The commons were the sites of popular festivals and other collective activities, like 
sports,games, and meetings.When they were fenced off , the sociality that had char¬ 
acterized the village community was severely undermined.Among the rituals that 
came to an end was “Rogationtide perambulation,” a yearly procession among the 
fields meant to bless the future crops, that was prevented by the hedging of the 
fields (Underdown 1985: 81). 

^ On the breaking down of social cohesion see (among others) David Underdown, 
Revel, Riot and Rebellion: Popular Politics and Culture in England, 1603-1660 (1985), 
especially Chapter 3, which also describes the efforts made by the older nobility 
to distinguish itself from the nouveaux riches. 

^ Kriedte (1983), 55; Briggs (1998), 289-316. 

Cottage industry was an extension of the manorial, rural industry, reorganized by 
the capitalist merchants to take advantage of the large pool of labor liberated by 
the enclosures.With this move the merchants aimed to circumvent the high wages 
and power of the urban guilds. This is how the putting-out system was born — a 
system by which the capitalist merchants distributed among rural families wool or 
cotton to spin or weave, and often also the instruments of work, and then picked 


123 



I 


up the finished product.The importance of the put-out system and cottage indus¬ 
try for the development of British industry can be deduced from the fact that the 
entire textile industry, the most important sector in the first phase of capital s t 
development, was organized in this fashion.The cottage industry had two main 
advantages for employers: it prevented the danger of’combinations’; and it cheap¬ 
ened the cost of labor, since its home-based organization provided the workers 
with free domestic services and the cooperation of their children and wives, who 
were treated as helpers and paid low “auxiliary” wages. 

33. Wage labor was so identified with slavery that the Levellers excluded waged work¬ 
ers from the vote, not considering them sufficiently independent from their 
employers to be able to cast a vote. “Why should a free person make oneself a 
slave?” asked The Fox, a character in Edmund Spenser’s Mother Hubbard's Tale 
(1591). In turn Gerrard Winstanley, the leader of the Diggers, declared that it did 
not make any difference whether one lived under one’s enemy or under one’s 
brother if one worked for a wage (Hill 1975). 

34. Herzog (1989), 45-52.The literature on vagabonds is vast. Among the most impor¬ 
tant on this topic are A. Beier (1974) and B. Geremeks Poverty, A History (1994). 

35. Fletcher (1973), 64-77; Cornwall (1977), 137-241; Beer (1982),82-139. At the 
beginning of the 16'h century many enclosure riots involved the lesser gentry who 
used the popular hatred for enclosures, engrossments, and emparkments to settle 
their feuds with their betters. But, after 1549,“the gentry’s leadership in enclosure 
disputes diminished and small-holders or artisans and cottagers were more likely 
to take the initiative in heading agrarian protests” (Manning 1988:312). Manning 
describes the typical victim of an enclosure riot as “the outsider.” “Merchanrs 
attempting to buy their way into the landed gentty were particularly vulnerable 
to enclosure riots, as were farmers of leases. New owners and farmers were the 
victims of enclosure riots in 24 of the 75 Star Chamber cases. A closely-related 
category consists of six absentee gentlemen” (Manning 1988: 50). 

36. Manning (1988), 96-97, 114-116,281; Mendelson and Crawford (1998). 

37. The increasing presence of women in anti-enclosure riots was influenced by a 
popular belief that women were “lawless” and could level hedges with impunity 
(Mendelson and Crawford 1998: 386- 387). But the Court of the Star Chamber 
went out of its way to disabuse people of this belief. In 1605, one year after James 
Is witchcraft law, it ruled that “if women offend in trespass, riot or otherwise, and 
an action is brought against them and their husbands, they [the husbands] shall pay 
the fines and damages, notwithstanding the trespass or the offense is committed 
without the privity of the husbands” (Manning 1988:98). 

38. On this subject see, among others, Maria Mies (1986). 

39. By 1600, real wages in Spain had lost thirty percent of their purchasing power 
with respect to what they had been in 1511 (Hamilton 1965: 280). On the Price 
Revolution, see in particular Earl J. Hamilton s now classic work, American Treasure 
and the Price Revolution in Spain , 1501-1650 (1965), which studies the impact of 
the America bullion on it; David Hackett Fischer 77re Great Wave: Price Revolutions 
and the Rhythms of History (1996),which studies price hikes from the Middle Ages 


124 



1 


to die present — in particular Chapter 2 (pp. 66-113); and Peter Ramsey’s edited 
volume, The Price Revolution in Sixteenth Century England (1971). 

40. Braudel (1966),VoI. 1,517-524. 

41. As Peter Kriedte (1983) sums up the economic developments of this period: 

“The crisis sharpened the differentials in income and property. Pauperization 
and proletarianization were paralleled by an increased accumulation of wealth.... 
Work on Chippenham in Cambridgeshire has shown that the bad harvests of [the 
late 16^ and early 17 th centuries] resulted in a decisive shift. Between 1544 and 
1712 the medium-sized farms all but disappeared. At the same time the propor¬ 
tion of properties of 90 acres or more rose from 3% to 14%; households without 
land increased from 32% to 63%” (Kriedte 1983: 54-55). 

42. Wallerstein (1974), 83; Le Roy Ladurie (1928-1929). The growing interest of 
capitalist entrepreneurs for money-lending was perhaps the motivation behind 
the expulsion of the Jews from most cities and countries of Europe in the 15 th 
and 16 th centuries — Parma (1488), Milan (1489), Geneva (1490), Spain (1492), 
and Austria (1496). Expulsions and pogroms continued for a century. Until the 
tide was turned by Rudolph II in 1577, it was illegal for Jews to live in most of 
Western Europe. As soon as money-lending became a lucrative business, this 
activity, previously declared unworthy of a Christian, was rehabilitated, as shown 
by this dialogue between a peasant and a wealthy burgher, written anonymously 
in Germany around 1521: 

Peasant:What brings me to you?Why, I would like to see how you spend your 
time. 

Burgher: How should I spend my time? I sit here counting my money, can’t 
you see? 

Peasant:Tell me, burgher, who gave you so much money that you spend all your 
time counting it? 

Burgher:You want to know who gave me my money? I shall tell you. A peas¬ 
ant comes knocking at my door and asks me to lend him ten or twenty gulden. I 
inquire of him whether he owns a plot of good pasture land or a nice field for 
plowing. He says: ‘Yes, burgher, 1 have a good meadow and a fine field, worth a 
hundred gulden the two of them.’ I reply: ‘Excellent! Pledge your meadow and 
your field as collateral, and if you will undertake to pay one gulden a year as inter¬ 
est, you can have your loan of twenty gulden.* Happy to hear the good news, the 
peasant replies: ‘I gladly give you my pledge.’‘But I must tell you,’ I rejoin,‘that if 
ever you fail to pay your interest on time, I will take possession of your land and 
make it my property.’ And this does not worry the peasant, he proceeds to assign 
his pasture and field to me as his pledge. I lend him the money and he pays inter¬ 
est punctually for one year or two; then comes a bad harvest and soon he is behind 
in his payment. I confiscate his land, evict him and meadow and field are mine. 
And I do this not only with peasants but with artisans as well. If a tradesman owns 
a good house I lend him a sum of money on it, and before long the house belongs 
to me. In this way I acquire much property and wealth, which is why I spend all 
my time counting my money. 


125 


I 

Peasant: And I thought only the Jews practiced usury! Now I hear that 
Christians do it, too. 

Burgher: Usury? Who is talking about usury? Nobody here practices usury. 
What the debtor pays is interest (G. Strauss: 110-111). 

43. With reference to Germany, Peter Kriedte writes that: 

“Recent research has shown that a building worker in Augsburg [in Bavaria] 
was able adequately to maintain his wife and two children from his annual income 
during the first three decades of the 16<h century. Thenceforth his living standard 
began to fall. Between 1566 and 1575 and from 1585 to the outbreak of the Thirty 
Years War his wages could no longer pay for the subsistence minimum of his fam¬ 
ily” (Kriedte 1983:51-52). On the impoverishment of the Europen working class 
due to the enclosures and the Price Revolution see also C. Lis & H. Soly (1979), 
72-79. As they write, in England “between 1500 and 1600 grain prices rose six¬ 
fold, while wages rose threefold. Not surprisingly, workers and cottars were but 
‘house beggars 1 for Francis Bacon.” In the same period, in France,the purchasing 
power of cottars and waged workers fell by forty five percent. “In New Castile... 
wage labour and poverty were considered synonymous.” (ibid.: 72-4). 

44. On the growth of prostitution in the 16*h century see, Nickie Roberts, Whores in 
History: Prostitution in Western Society (1992). 

45. Manning (1988); Fletcher (1973); Cornwall (1977); Beer (1982); Berce (1990); 
Lombard ini (1983). 

46. Kamen (1971), Berce (1990), 169-179; Underdown (1985). As David Underdown 
notes: 

“The prominent role played by female [food] rioters has often been noted. At 
Southampton in 1608 a group of women refused to wait while the corporation 
debated what to do about a ship being loaded with grain for London; they boarded 
it and seized the cargo. Women were thought to be the likely rioters in the inci¬ 
dent in Weymouth in 1622, while at Dorchester in 1631 a group (some of them 
inmates of the workhouse) stopped a cart in the mistaken belief that it contained 
wheat; one of them complained of a local merchant who “did send away the best 
fruits of the land, as butter, cheese, wheat, etc., over the seas” (1985: 117). On 
womens presence in food riots, see also Sara Mendelson and Patricia Crawford 
(1998), who write that “women played a prominent role in grain riots [in 
England] ” For instance, “[a]t Maldon in 1629 a crowd of over a hundred women 
and children boarded the ships to prevent grain from being shipped away.”They 
were led by a “Captain Ann Carter, later tried and hanged” for her leading role in 
the protest (ibid.: 385-86). 

47. In a similar vein weie the comments of a physician in the Italian city ofBergamo, 
during the famine of 1630: 

“The loathing and terror engendered by a maddened crowd of half dead peo¬ 
ple who importune all comers in the streets, in piazzas, in the churches, at street 
doors, so that life is intolerable, and in addition the foul stench rising from them 
as well as the constant spectale of the dying... this cannot be believed by anyone 
who has not experienced it” (quoted by Carlo M.Cipolla 1993: 129). 

48. On 16«h and 17 th -century protest in Europe, see Henry Kamen, The Iron Century 


126 




I 


(1972), in particular Chapter 10, “Popular Rebellion. 1550-1660“ (pp. 331-385). 
As Kamen writes, “The crisis of 1595-7 was operative throughout Europe, with 
repercussions in England, France, Austria, Finland, Hungary, Lithuania, and 
Ukraine. Probably never before in Eutopean history had so many popular rebel¬ 
lions coincided in time”(p. 336).Thete were rebellions in Naples in 1595, 1620, 
1647 (ibid.: 334-35, 350,361-63). In Spain, rebellions erupted in 1640 in Catalonia, 
in Grenada in 1648,in Coidova and Seville in 1652. For riots and rebellions in 16th 
and 17th-century England,see Cornwall (1977); Underdown (1985), and Manning 
(1988). On revolt in Spam and Italy, see also Braudel (1976,Vol. II), 738-739. 

49. On vagrancy in Europe, beside Beier and Geremek, see Braudel (1976),Vol. II, 
739-743; Kamen (1972),390-394. 

50. On the rise of property crimes in the wake of the Price Revolution see the Charter 
on p. 141 in this volume. See RichardJ. Evans (1996),35; Kamen (1972),397-403; 
and Lis and Soly (1984). Lis and Soly write that“[t]he available evidence suggests 
that the overall crime rate did indeed rise markedly in Elizabethan and early Stuart 
England, especially between 1590 and 1620“ (p. 218). 

51. In England,among the momentsofsociality and collective reproduction that were 
terminated due to the loss of the open fields and the commons there were the 
processions that were held in the spring to bless the fields — which could no 
longer take place once the fields were fenced off—and the dances that were held 
around the Maypole on May First (Underdown 1985). 

52. Lis and Soly (1979), 92. On the institution of Public Assistance, see Geremek’s 
Poverty A History (1994), Chapter 4: “The Reform of Charity” (pp. 142-177). 

53. Yann Moulier Boutang, De Lesclavage au salariat (1998),291-293.1 only partially 
agree with Moulier Boutang when he claims that Poor Relief was not so much 
a response to the misery produced by land expropriation and price inflation, but 
a measure intended to prevent the flight of workers and thereby create a local 
labor market (1998).As already mentioned, Moulier Boutang overemphasizes the 
degree of mobility available to the dispossessed proletariat as he does not con¬ 
sider the different situation of women. Furthermore, he underplays the degree to 
which assistance was the result of a struggle — a struggle that cannot be reduced 
to the flight of labor, but included assaults, the invasion of towns by masses of 
starving rural people (a constant feature, in mid-16*h-century France) and other 
forms of attack. It is not coincidence, in this context, that Norwich, the center 
of the Kett Rebellion became, shortly after its defeat, the center and the model 
of Poor Relief reforms. 

54. The Spanish humanist Juan Luis Vives, who was knowledgeable about the poor 
relief systems of the Flanders and Spain, was one of the main supporters of pub¬ 
lic charity. In his De Subvention Pauperum (1526) he argued that “secular author¬ 
ity rather than the Church should be responsible for the aid to the poor” (Geremek 
1994:187). He also stressed that authorities should find work for the able-bodied, 
insisting that “the dissolute, the crooked, the diieving and the idle should be given 
the hardest work, and the most badly paid, in order that their example might serve 
as a deterrent to others” (ibid.). 

55. The main work on the rise of work-house and correction houses is Dario Melossi 


127 


I 


and Massimo Pavarini, The Prison and the Factory: Origins of the Renitantiary System 
(1981).The authors point out that the main purpose of incarceration was to break 
the sense of identity and solidarity of the poor. See also Geremek (1994), 206- 
229. On the schemes concocted by English proprietors to incarcerate the poor 
in their parishes, see Marx, CapitalV 61. 1 (1909: 793). For France, see Foucault, 
Madness and Civilization (1965),especially Chapter 2:“The Great Confinement’* 
(pp. 38-64). 

56. While Hackett Fischer connects the 17< h century decline of pouladon in Europe 
to the social effects of the Price Revolution (pp. 91-92), Peter Kriedte presents 
a more complex picture, arguing that demographic decline was a combination Q f 
both Malthusian and socio-economic factors. The decline was, in his view, a 
response to both the population increase of the early 16 th century, on one side, 
and on the other to the landlords’ appropriation of the larger portion of the agri¬ 
cultural income (p. 63). 

An interesting observation which supports my arguments concerning the con¬ 
nection between demographic decline and pro-natalist state policies is offered by 
Robert S. Duplessis (1997) who writes that the recovery after the population cri¬ 
sis of the 17 th century was far swifter than that after the Black Death. It took a 
century for the population to start growing again after the epidemic of 1348, while 
in the 17 th century the growth process was reactivated within less than half a cen¬ 
tury (p. 143).This estimates would indicate the presence in ^^-century Europe 
of a far higher natality rate, possibly to be attributed to the fierce attack on any 
form of contraception. 

57. “Bio-power”is the concept Foucault used in his History of Sexuality: An Introduction 
(1978) to describe the shift from an authoritarian form of government to one 
more decentralized, centered on the “fostering of the power of life”in 19th-cen¬ 
tury Europe.“Bio-power” expresses the growing concern, at the state level, for the 
sanitary, sexual, and penal control of individual bodies, as well as population growth 
and population movements and their insertion into the economic realm. 
According to this paradigm, the rise of bio-power went hand in hand with the 
rise of liberalism and marked the end of the juridical and monarchic state. 

58. I make this distinction with the Canadian sociologist Bruce Curtis’ discussion of 
the Foucauldian concept of “population” and “bio-power” in mind. Curtis con¬ 
trasts the concept of “populousness” which was current in the 16 th and 17 th cen¬ 
turies, with the notion of“population” that became the basis of the modern sci¬ 
ence of demography in the 19‘h century He points out that “populousness” was 
an organic and hierarchical concept.When the mercantilists used it they were con¬ 
cerned with the part of the social body that creates wealth, i.e., actual or poten¬ 
tial laborers.The later concept of “population” is an atomistic one. “Population 
consists of so many undifferentiated atoms distributed through abstract space and 
time” — Curtis writes — “with its own laws and structures.” I argue, however, 
that there is a continuity between these two notions, as in both the mercantilist 
and liberal capitalist period, the notion of population has been functional to the 
reproduction of labor-power. 

59. The heyday of Mercantilism was in the second half of the 17 th century, its dom- 


128 




inance in economic life being associated with the names of William Petty 
(1623-1687) and Jean Baptiste Colbert, the finance minister of Louis XIV. 
However, the late 17th-century mercantilists only systematized or applied theories 
that had been developing since the 16th century. Jean Bodin in France and 
Giovanni Botero in Italy are considered proto-mercantilist economists. One of the 
first systematic formulations of mercantilist economic theory is found in Thomas 
Mun’s England's Treasure by Forraign Trade (1622). 

60. For a discussion of the new legislation against infanticide see (among others) John 
Riddle (1997), 163-166; Merry Wiesner (1993), 52-53; and Mendelson and 
Crawford (1998), who write that“[t]he crime of infanticide was one that single 
women were more likely to commit than any other group in society. A study of 
infanticide in the early seventeenth century showed that of sixty mothers, fif ty three 
were single, six were widows”(p. 149). Statistics also show that infanticide was pun¬ 
ished even more frequently than witchcraft. Margaret King writes that Nuremberg 
"executed fourteen women for that crime between 1578 and 1615, but only one 
witch. The Parliament of Rouen from 1580s to 1606 prosecuted about as many 
cases of infanticide as witchcraft, but punished infanticide more severely. Calvinist 
Geneva shows a much higher rate of execution for infanticide that witchcraft; from 
1590 to 1630, nine women of eleven charged were executed for infanticide, com¬ 
pared to only one of thirty suspects for witchcraft (p. 10). These estimates are con¬ 
firmed by Merry Wiesner, who writes that “in Geneva, for example, 25 women 
out of 31 charged with infanticide during the period 1595-1712 were executed, 
as compaied with 19 out of 122 chaiged with witchcraft (1993: 52). Women were 
executed for infanticide in Europe as late as the 18th century. 

61. An interesting article on this topic is Robert Fletcher’s “The Witches 
Pharmakopeia’’ (1896). 

62. The reference is to an Italian feminist song from 1971 titled “Aborto di Stato” 
(State Abortion). 

63. Margaret L. King, Women of the Renaissance (1991), 78. For the closing of broth¬ 
els in Germany see Merry Wiesner, Working Women in Renaissance Germany 
(1986), 194-209. 

64. An extensive catalogue of the places and years in which women were expelled 
from the crafts is found in David Herlihy, Women, Family and Society in Medieval 
Europe: Historical Essays. Providence: Berghahan, 1978-1991. See also Merry 
Wiesner (1986), 174-185. 

65. Martha Howell (1986), Chapter 8,174-183. Howell writes: 

“Comedies and satires of the period, for example, often portrayed market 
women and trades women as shrews, with characterizations that not only ridiculed 
or scolded them for taking on roles in market production but frequently even 
charged them with sexual aggression’’(p,182). 

66- In a thorough critique of 17th-century social contract theory, as formulated by 
Thomas Hobbes and John Locke, Carol Pateman (1988) argues that the “social 
contract” was based on a more fundamental “sexual contract,” which recognized 
men’s right to appropriate women’s bodies and women’s labor. 

67- Ruth Mazo Karras (1996) writes that “‘Common woman’ meant a woman avail- 


129 



able to all men; unlike ‘common man* which denoted someone of humble ori¬ 
gins and could be used in either a derogatory or a laudatory sense, it did not con¬ 
vey any meaning either of non-gentile behavior or of class solidarity”(p.138). 

68. For the family in the period of the “transition,” see Lawrence Stone (1977); and 
Andre Burguiere and Francois Lebrun,“Priests, Prince, and Family “in Burguiere, 
et al.,/1 History of the Family: The Impact of Modernity (1996). Volume Two, 95ff. 

69. On the character of 17 th -century patriarchalism and, in particular, the concept of 
patriarchal power in social contract theory, see again Pateman (1988); Zilla 
Eisenstein, The Radical Future of Liberal Feminism (1981); andMargaret R. 
Sommerville, Sex and Subjection:AttitudesTo Women In Early Modern Society (1995). 

Discussing the changes contract theory brought about in England, in the legal 
and philosophical attitude towards women, Sommerville argues that the contract 
tarians supported the subordination of women to men as much as the patriar- 
chalis*, but justified it on different grounds. Being at least formally committed to 
the principle of“natural equality,” and “government by consent, f, in defense of male 
supremacy they invoked the theory of womens “natural inferiority” according to 
which women would consent to their husbands* appropriation of their property 
and voting rights upon realizing their intrinsic weakness and necessary depend¬ 
ence on men. 

70. See Underdown (1985a), “The Taming of the Scold: The Enforcement of 
Patriarchal Authority in Early Modern England” in Anthony Fletcher and John 
Stevenson (1985), 116-136; Mendelson and Crawford (1998), 69-71. 

71. On womens loss of rights in 16'h and 17 th -century Europe, see (among others) 
Merry Wiesner (1993), who writes that: 

“The spread of Roman law had a largely negative effect on womens civil legal 
status in the early modern period both because of the views of women which 
jurists chose to adopt from it and the stricter enforcement of existing laws to which 
it gave rise** (p. 33). 

72. Adding to the dramas and tracts also the court records of the period, 
Underdown concludes that “between 1560 and 1640... such records disclose 
an intense preoccupation with women who are a visible threat to the patriar¬ 
chal system. Women scolding and brawling with their neighbors, single women 
refusing to enter service, wives domineering or beating their husbands: all seem 
to surface more frequently than in the period immediately before or afterwards. 
It will not go unnnodced that this is also the period when witchcraft accusa¬ 
tions reach a peak** (1985a: 119). 

73. James Blaut (1992a)points out that within a few decades after 1492 “the rate of 
growth and change speeded up dramatically and Europe entered a period of rapid 
development “ He writes: 

“Colonial enterprise in the 16^' century produced capital in a number of ways. 
One was gold ands silver mining. A second was plantation agriculture, principally 
in Brazil. A third was trade with Asia in spice, cloth and much more. A fourth ele¬ 
ment was the profit returned to European houses from a variety of productive and 
commercial enterprises in the Americas.... A fifth was slaving. Accumulation from 
these sources was massive (p. 38). 


130 




I 


74. Exemplary is the case of Bermuda, dted by Elaine Forman Crane (1990). Crane 
writes that several white women in Bermuda were owners of slaves — usually 
other women — thanks to whose labor they were able to maintain a certain degree 
of economic autonomy (pp. 231-258). 

75. June Nash (1980) writes that" A significant change came in 1549 when racial ori¬ 

gin became a factor, along with legally sanctioned marital unions, in defining rights 
of succession.The new law stated that no mulatto (offspring of a black man and an 
Indian women), mestizo, person born out of wedlock was allowed to have Indians 
in encomienda_Mestizo and illegitimate became almost synonymous” (p. 140). 

76. A coyota was a part-mestiza and part-lndian woman. Ruth Behar (1987), 45. 

77. The most deadly ones were the mercury mines,like that in Huancavelica, in which 
thousands of workers died of slow poisoning amidst horrible sufferings. As David 
Noble Cook writes: 

"Laborers in the Huancavelica mine faced both immediate and long term dan¬ 
gers. Cave-ins, floods, and falls as a result of slipping shafts posed daily threats. 
Intermediate health hazards were presented by a poor diet, inadequate ventilation 
in the underground chambers, and a sharp temperature difference between the 
mine interiors and the rarefied Andean atmosphere.... Workers who remained for 
long periods in the mines perhaps suffered the worst fate of all. Dust and fine par¬ 
ticles were released into the air by the striking of the tools used to break the ore 
loose. Indians inhaled the dust, which contained four dangerous substances: mer¬ 
cury vapors, arsenic, arsenic anhydride, and cinnabar. Long exposure... resulted in 
death.Known as tnal de lamina ,or mine sickness, it was incurable when advanced. 
In less severe cases the gums were ulcerated and eaten a way... (pp.205-6). 

78. Barbara Bush (1990) points out that, if they wanted to abort, slave women cer¬ 
tainly knew how to, having had available to them the knowledge brought from 
Africa (p. 141). 


131 




Title page of Andreas Vesalius* Da Humani Corporis Fabrics (Mirt* 
1543). Hie triumph of the male, upper class, patriarchal order through the 
stitutiort of the neu> anatomical theatre could not be more complete . Of the 
woman dissected and delivered to the public gaze, the author tells ^ lilt ,rt 
fear of being hanged Ishel had declared herself pregnant/' but after it u& tii^ 
ered that she u%w not, she tins hung, llie female figure in the back Iperhap 5 a 
prostitute or a midwife) lowers her eyes, possibly ashamed in font of the obs#* 
ity of the scene and its implicit violence. 


























The Great Caliban 

The Struggle Against the Rebel Body 


Life is but a motion of limbs.... For what is the heart, but a 
spring; and the nerves, but so many strings; and the joints 
but so many wheels, giving motion to the whole body. 

(Hobbes, Leviathan, 1650) 

Yet l will be a more noble creature, and at the very time 
when my natural necessities debase me into the condition 
of the Beast, my Spirit shall rise and soar and fly up towards 
the employment of the angels. 

(Cotton Mather, Diary , 1680-1708) 

...take some Pity on me... for my Friends is very Poor, and my 
Mother is very sick, and I am to die next Wednesday Morning, 
so I hope you will be so good as to give my Friends a small 
Trifill of Money to pay for a Coffin and a Sroud, for to take my 
body a way from the Tree in that l am to die on.., and dont be 
faint Hearted...so I hope you will take it into Consideiation of 
my poor Body, consedar if it was your own Cace, you would be 
willing to have your Body saved from the Surgeons. 

(Letter of Richard Tobin, condemned to 
death in London in 1739) 


P®* of the preconditions for capitalist development was the process that Michel 
■^cault defined as the “disciplining of the body/' which in my view consisted of an 
^jfcmpt by state and church to transform the individual's powers into labor-power. 

s chapter examines how this process was conceived and mediated in the philo- 
*°phical debates of the time, and the strategic interventions which it generated. 

I* was in the 16 th century; in the areas of Western Europe most affected by the 
esta nt Reformation and the rise of the mercantile bourgeoisie, that we see emerg- 
* Hew CVer ^ — the sta 8 e » the P u lpit» the political and philosophical imagination — 
con cept of the person. Its most ideal embodiment is the Shakespearean Prosper© 




133 



15 tf * centur ivoodcut . "7) ie 
devil's assault on the dying mn 
is a theme that penwdes all t h e 
Imedieval) popular tradition. ” 
(From Alfonso A/. di Nola, 
1987.) 


of the The Tempest (1612), who combines the celestial spirituality of Ariel and the brutish 
materiality of Caliban.Yet he betrays an anxiety over the equilibrium achieved that rules 
out any pride for “Mans" unique position in the Great Chain of Being. 1 In defeating 
Caliban, Prospero must admit that “this thing of darkeness is mine," thus reminding his 
audience that our human partaking of the angel and the beast is problematic indeed. 

In the 17 th century, what in Prospero remains a subliminal foreboding is formal¬ 
ized as the conflict between Reason and the Passions of the Body, which reconceptual- 
izes classic Judeo-Christian themes to produce a new anthropological paradigm.The out¬ 
come is reminiscent of the medieval skirmishes between angels and devils for the 
possession of the departing soul. But the conflict is now staged within the person who 
is reconstructed as a battlefield, where opposite elements clash for domination. On the 
one side, there are the “forces of Reason": parsimony, prudence, sense of responsibility* 
self-control. On the other, the “low instincts of the Body": lewdness, idleness, systematic 
dissipation of one’s vital energies. The battle is fought on many fronts because Reason 
must be vigilant against the attacks of the carnal self, and prevent “the wisdom of the 
flesh" (in Luthers words) from corrupting the powers of the mind. In the extreme case, 
the person becomes a terrain for a war of all against all: 

Let me be nothing, if within the compass of my self 1 do not find 
the battail of Lepanto: Passions against Reason, Reason against 
Faith, Faith against the Devil, and my Conscience against all. 

(Thomas Browne 1928: 76) 


134 




I 


In the course of this process a change occurs in the metaphorical field, as the philo- 
j^cal representation of individual psychology borrows images from the body-politics 
state, disclosing a landscape inhabited by “rulers* 1 and “rebellious subjects,** “mul- 
° des** and “seditions,** “chains** and “imperious commands” and (with Thomas 
q 1 wne) even the executioner (ibid.: 72).2 As we shall see, this conflict between Reason 
d the Body, described by the philosophers as a riotous confrontation between the “bet- 
aI1 „and the “lower sorts,** cannot be ascribed only to the baroque taste for the figura- 
pve later to be purged in favor of a “more masculine** language. 3 The battle which the 
17th-century discourse on the person imagines unfolding in the microcosm of the indi¬ 
vidual has arguably a foundation in the reality of the time. It is an aspect of that broader 
process of social reformation, whereby, in the “Age of R eason,** the rising bourgeoisie 
attempted to remold the subordinate classes in conformity with the needs of the devel¬ 
oping capitalist economy. 

It was in the attempt to form a new type of individual that the bourgeoisie engaged 
in that battle against the body that has become ite historic mark. According to Max Weber, 
the reform of the body is at the core of the bourgeois ethic because capitalism makes acqui¬ 
sition 11 ^ ultimate purpose of life,’* instead of treating it as a means for the satisfaction of 
our needs; thus, it requires that we forfeit all spontaneous enjoyment of life (Weber 1958: 
53). Capitalism also attempts to overcome our “natural state,** by breaking the barriers of 
nature and by lengthening the working day beyond the limits set by the sun, the seasonal 
cycles, and the body itself, as constituted in pie-industrial society. 

Marx, too, sees the alienation from the body as a distinguishing trait of the capi¬ 
talist work-relation. By transforming labor into a commodity, capitalism causes workers 
to submit their activity to an external order over which they have no control and with 
which they cannot identify. Thus, the labor process becomes a ground of self-estrange- 
ment: the worker “only feels himself outside his work, and in his work feels outside him¬ 
self. He is at home when he is not working and when he is working is not at home** 
(Marx 1961:72). Furthermore, with the development of a capitalist economy, the worker 
becomes (though only formally) the “free owner** of “his** labor-power, which (unlike 
the slave) he can place at the disposal of the buyer for a limited period of time. This 
implies that“[h]e must constandy look upon his labour-power** (his energies, his facul¬ 
ties) “as his own property, his own commodity** (Marx 1906,Vol. 1:186). 4 This too leads 
to a sense of dissociation from the body, wliich becomes reified, reduced to an object 
With which the person ceases to be immediately identified. 

The image of a worker freely alienating his labor, or conf ranting his body as cap- 
l tal to be delivered to the highest bidder, refers to a working class already molded by the 
capitalist work-discipline. But only in the second half of the 19 th century can we glimpse 
that type of worker — temperate, prudent, responsible, proud to possess a watch 
("Thompson 1964), and capable of looking upon the imposed conditions of the capital- 
ISt m °de of production as “self-evident laws of nature** (Marx 1909,Vol. 1: 809) — that 
P er soniftes the capitalist utopia and is the point of reference for Marx. 

The situation was radically different in the period of primitive accumulation when 
eine rging bourgeoisie discovered that the “liberation of labor-power** — that is, the 
^^PriatioH 0 f t he peasantry from the common lands — was not sufficient to force 
e ^Possessed proletarians to accept wage-labor. Unlike Milton*s Adam, who, upon 


13S 



Woman selling mgs and , Mgab 0nd 
Vie expropriated peasants and mi 
sans did not peacefully agree to ^ 
for a wage. Mote often they became 
beggars, vagabonds or criminals. 
Design by Lou is-Leopold Boilly 
(1761-1845). 


being expelled from the Garden of Eden, set forth cheerfully fora life dedicated to work.5 
the expropriated peasants and artisans did not peacefully agree to work for a wage. More 
often they became beggars, vagabonds or criminals. A long process would be required to 
produce a disciplined work-fore^- I n the 16 th and 17 th centuries, the hatred for wage- 
labor was so intense that many proletarians preferred to risk the gallows, rather than sub¬ 
mit to the new conditions of work (Hill 1975: 219—39). 6 

This was the first capitalist crisis, one far more serious than all the conunercial 
crises that threatened the foundati ons of the capitalist system in the first phase of its devel¬ 
opment. 7 As is Well-known, the response of the bourgeoisie was the institution of a true 
regime of terror, implemented through the intensification of penalties (particularly those 
punishing the crimes against property), the introduction of “bloody laws” against 
vagabonds, intended to bind workers to the jobs imposed on them, as once the serfs had 
been bound to the land, and the multiplication of executions. In England alone, 72,000 
people were hung by Henry the VIII during the thirty-eight years of his reign; and the 
massacre continued into the late 16 th century. In the 1570s, 300 to 400 “rogues” were 
“devoured by the gallows in one place or another every year” (Hoskins 1977: 9). I n 
Devon alone, seventy-four people were hanged just in 1598 (ibid ). 

But the Violence of the ruling class was not confined to the repression of trans 
gressors. It also aimed at a radical transformation of the person, intended to eradicate^ 11 
the proletariat any form of behavior not conducive to the imposition of a stricter w ° r ^ 
discipline. The dimensions of this attack are apparent in the social legislation that, by 
middle of the 16th ce ntury, was introduced in England and France. Games were for 1 ■ 
den, particularly games of chanc^ that, besides being useless, undermined the * n ^ V1 , 
ual’s sense of responsibility and “work ethic.” Taverns were closed, along with P 11 


136 


I 


j is< Nakedness was penalized, as were many other “unproductive” forms of sexuality 
a sociality. It was forbidden to drink, swear, curse. 8 
1 ' It was in the course of thi s vast process of social engineering that a new concept 
^tbe body and a new policy toward it began to be shaped. The novelty was that the 
^jy attacked as the source of all evils, and yet it was studied with the same passion 
that in the same years, animated the investigation of celestial motion. 

Why was the body so central to state politics and intellectual discourse? One is 
tempted to answer that t ^ s obsession with the body reflects the fear that the proletariat 
inspired in the ruling class. 9 It was the fear felt by the bourgeois or the nobleman alike 
^ho, wherever they went, in the streets or on their travels, were besieged by a threaten¬ 
ing crowd, begging them or preparing to rob them. It was also the fear felt by those who 
pjesjded over the administration of the state, whose consolidation was continuously 
U nd er mi ne< ^ — but also determined — by the threat of riots and social disorders. 

Yet, there was more. We must not forget that the beggarly and riotous ptoletariat 
— who forced the rich to travel by carriage to escape its assaults, or to go to bed with 
two pistols under the pillow — was the same social subject who increasingly appeared as 
the source of all wealth. It was the same of whom the mercantilists, the first economists 
of capitalist society, never tired of repeating (though not without second thoughts) that 
“the more the better,” often deploring that so many bodies were wasted on the gallows. 10 

Many decades were to pass before the concept of the value of labor entered the 
pantheon of economic thought. But that work (‘‘industry”), more than land or any other 
"natural wealth,” is the primary source of accumulation was a truth well understood at 
a time when the low level of technological development made human beings the most 
important productive resource. As Thomas Mun (the son of a London merchant and 
spokesman for the mercantilist position) put it: 


.. .we know that our own natural wares do not yield us so much 
profit as our industry.... For Iron in the Mines is of no great worth, 
when it is compared with the employment and advantage it yields 
being digged, tried, transported, bought, sold, cast into Ordnance, 
Muskets.. .wrought into Anchors, bolts, spikes, nails and the like, for 
the use of Ships, Houses, Carts, Coaches, Ploughs, and other instru¬ 
ments for Tillage. (Abbott 1946: 2) 


Even Shakespeare’s Prospero insists on this crucial economic fact in a little speech 
°n the value of labor, which he delivers to Miranda after she manifests her utter disgust 
w «h Caliban: 


But, as 4 tis 

We cannot miss him. He does make our fire 
Fetch in our wood, and serves in office 

That profit us. (The Tempest, Act I, Scene 2) 


only 


The body, then, came to the foreground of social policies because it appeared not 
as a beast inert to the stimuli of work, but also as the container of labor-power, a 


137 



I 


means of production, the primary work-machine. This is why, in the strategies adoi 


by the state towards it, we find much violence, but also much interest; and the si 


bodily motions and properties becomes the starting point for most of the the ( 


tudy 


Pted 


of 


ore tical 


speculation of the age — whether aiming, with Descartes, to assert the immortality ^ 
the soul, or to investigate, with Hobbes, the premises of social governability. 


Indeed, one of the central concerns of the new Mechanical Philosophy vv^ ^ 
mechanics of the body, whose constitutive elements — from the circulation of the blood 
to the dynamics of speech, from the effects of sensations to voluntary and inv 0 lunta 
motions — were taken apart and classified in all their components and possibilities! 
Descartes* Treatise of Man (published in 1664) 11 is a true anatomical handbook, though 
the anatomy it performs is as much psychological as physical. A basic task of Descartes* 
enterprise is to institute an ontological divide between a purely mental and a purely 
physical domain. Every manner, attitude, and sensation is thus defined; their limits are 
marked, their possibilities weighed with such a thoroughness that one has the impres¬ 
sion that the “book of human nature” has been opened for the first time or, more likely, 
that a new land has been discovered and the conquistadors are setting out to chart its 
paths, compile the list of its natural resources, assess its advantages and disadvantages. 

In this, Hobbes and Descartes were representatives of their time.The care they dis¬ 
play in exploring the details of corporeal and psychological reality reappear in the 
Puritan analysis of inclinations and individual talents, *2 which was the beginning ofa bour¬ 
geois psychology, explicitly studying, in this case, all human faculties from the viewpoint 
of their potential for work and contribution to discipline. A further sign of a new curios¬ 
ity about the body and “of a change in manners and customs from former times whereby 



The tintUomy lesson at the 
University of Rtdow. 

The anatomy theatre disclosed 
to the public eye a disenchanted 
desecrated body. In Dn FASCICULI 
de Medicina. Venezia (1494). 


138 
















I 


body can be opened” (in the words of a 17«*-century physician) was also the devel- 
n ient of anatomy as a scientific discipline, following its long relegation to the intellec- 
underground in the Middle Ages (Wightnian 1972:90 -92; Galzigua 1978). 

But while the body emerged as the main protagonist in the philosophical and 
jical scenes, a striking feature of these investigations is the degraded conception they 
formed of it. The anatomy “theatre”^ discloses to the public eye a disenchanted, dese¬ 
crated body, which only in principle can be conceived as the site of the soul, but actu- 
jly is treated as a separate reality (Galzigna 1978:16 3-64). 14 To the eye of the anatomist 
the body is a factory, as shown by the tide that AndreasVesalius gave to his epochal work 
0 n the “dissecting industry": De humani corporisfabrica (1543). In Mechanical Philosophy, 
the body is described by analogy with the machine , often with emphasis on its inertia. 
The body is conceived as brute matter, wholly divorced from any rational qualities: it 
does not know, does not want, does not feel. The body is a pure “collection of mem¬ 
bers” Descartes claims in his 1634 Discourse on Method (1973,Vol. I, 152). He is echoed 
by Nicholas Malebranche who, in the Dialogues on Metaphysics and on Religion (1688), 
raises the crucial question “Can a body think?” to promptly answer,“No, beyond a doubt, 
for all the modifications of such an extension consist only in certain relations of distance; 
and it is obvious that such relations are not perceptions, reasonings, pleasures, desires, feel¬ 
ings, in a word, thoughts” (Popkin 1966: 280). For Hobbes, as well, the body is a con¬ 
glomerate of mechanical motions that, lacking autonomous power, operates on the basis 
of an external causation, in a play of attractions and aversions where everything is regu¬ 
lated as in an automaton (Leviathan Part I, ChapterVI). 

It is true, however, of Mechanical Philosophy what Michel Foucault maintains 
with regard to the 17 th and 18th-century social disciplines (Foucault 1977: 137). Here, 
too, we find a different perspective from that of medieval asceticism, where the degrada¬ 
tion of the body had a purely negative function, seeking to establish the temporal and illu¬ 
sory nature of earthly pleasures and consequently the need to renounce the body itself. 

In Mechanical Philosophy we perceive a new bourgeois spirit that calculates, 
classifies, makes distinctions, and degrades the body only in order to rationalize its fac¬ 
ulties, aiming not just at intensifying its subjection but at maximizing its social utility 
(Ibid.: 137-38). Far from renouncing the body, mechanical theorists seek to conceptual- 
it in ways that make its operations intelligible and controllable.Thus the sense of pride 
(rather than commiseration) with which Descartes insists that “this machine” (as he per¬ 
sistently calls the body in the Treatise o f Man) is just an automaton, and its death is no 
more to be mourned than the breaking of a tool. 1 ^ 

Certainly, neither Hobbes nor Descartes spent many words on economic mat- 
j^and it would be absurd to read into their philosophies the everyday concerns of the 
“gush or Dutch merchants.Yet, we cannot fail to see the important contribution which 
Clr speculations on human nature gave to the emerging capitalist science of work. To 
l bod y “ mechanical matter, void of any intrinsic teleology — the “occult virtues” 

^ ute d to it by both Natural Magic and the popular superstitions of the time — was 
inte ^igibl e possibility of subordinating it to a work process that increasingly 
on uniform and predictable forms of behavior. 

Once its devices were deconstructed and it was itself reduced to a tool, the body 


c °uld be 


opened to an infinite manipulation of its powers and possibilities. One could 


139 



I 


investigate the vices and limits of imagination, the virtues of habit, the uses of fear 
certain passions can be avoided or neutralized, and how they can be more rationally 
lized. fn this sense,Mechanical Philosophy contributed to increasing the ruling-class COt) 
trol over the natural world, control over human nature being the first, most indispe nsa 
ble step.Just as natu re, reduced to a "Great Machine "could be conquered and (in Bac 0a ' 
words) "penetrated in all her secrets," likewise the body , emptied of its occult forces, co U 
be "caught in a system of subjection," whereby its behavior could be calculated, 0rgan 
ized, technically thought and invested of power relations" (Foucault 1977:26). 

In Descartes, body and nature are identified, for both are made of the same parti 
cles and act in obedience to unifomi physical laws set in motion by Gods will.Thus not 
only is the Cartesian body pauperized and expropriated from any magical virtue; i n ^ 
great ontological divide which Descartes institutes between the essence of humanity and 
its accidental conditions, the body is divorced from the person, it is literally dehuman¬ 
ized. "I am not this body,” Descartes insists throughout his Meditations (1641). And, 
indeed, in his philosophy the body joins a continuum of clock-like matter that the unfet¬ 
tered will can now contemplate as the object of its domination. 

As we will see, Descartes and Hobbes express two different projects with respect 
to corporeal reality. In Descartes, the reduction of the body to mechanical matter allows 
for the development of mechanisms of self-management that make the body the subject 
of the will. In Hobbes, by contrast, the mechanization of the body justifies the total sub¬ 
mission of the individual to the power of the state. In both, however, the outcome is a 
redefinition of bodily attributes that makes the body, ideally, at least, suited for the reg¬ 
ularity and automatism demanded by the capitalist work-discipline. 16 I emphasize "ide¬ 
ally" because, in the years in which Descartes and Hobbes were writing their treatises, 
the ruling class had to confront a corporeality that was far different from that appearing 
in their prefigurations. 

It is difficult, in fact, to reconcile the insubordinate bodies that haunt the social 
literature of the "Iron Century" with the clock-like images by which the body is repre¬ 
sented in Descartes’ and Hobbes’ works. Yet, though seemingly removed from the daily 
affairs of the class struggle, it is in the speculations of the two philosophers that we fmd 
first conceptualized the development of the body into a work-machine, one of the main 
tasks of primitive accumulation. When, for example, Hobbes declares that "the heart (is) 
but a spring... and the joints so many wheels," we perceive in his words a bourgeois 
spirit, whereby not only is work the condition and motive of existence of the body, but the 


need is felt to transform all bodily powers into work powers. 

This project is a clue to understanding why so much of the philosophical and reli¬ 
gious speculation of the 16 th and 17 th centuries consists of a true vivisection of tlje hutna n 
body, whereby it was decided which of its properties could live and which, instead, bad 


to die. It was a social alchemy that did not turn base metals into gold, but bodily P°' ve ^ 
into work-powers. For the same relation that capitalism introduced between land an 
work was also beginning to conuuand the relation between the body and labor. Wbil* 
labor was beginning to appear as a dynamic force infinitely capable of developm entl 
body was seen as inert, sterile matter that only the will could move, in a conditio* 15|l j^ 
ilar to that which Newton’s physics established between mass and motion, where ^ 
mass tends to inertia unless a force is applied to it. Like the land, the body had to be c 


140 







77 te conception of (he body 
as <1 receptacle of magical 
powers largely derived from 
the belief in a correspon¬ 
dence between the micro¬ 
cosm of the individual and 
the macrocosm of the celes¬ 
tial uwld, as illustrated in 
this 16 th -century image of 
the “zodiacal man ." 


(ivated and first of all bmken up, so that it could relinquish its hidden treasures. For while 
rile body is the condition of the existence o f labor-poiuer, it is also its limit, as the main ele¬ 
ment of resistance to its expenditure. It was not sufficient, then, to decide that in itself the 
body had no value.The body had to die so that labor-power could live. 

What died was the concept of the body as a receptacle of magical powers that had 
prevailed in the medieval world. In reality, it was destroyed. For in the background of the 
new philosophy we find a vast initiative by the state, whereby what the philosophers clas¬ 
sified as “irrational” was branded as crime.This state intervention was the necessary “sub¬ 
text” of Mechanical Philosophy. “Knowledge” can only become “power” if it can enforce 
iteprescriptions.Tliis means that the mechanical body, die body-machine, could not have 
become a model of social behavior without the destruction by the state of a vast range 
of pre-capitalist beliefs, practices, and social subjects whose existence contradicted the 
^Pularizarion of corporeal behavior promised by Mechanical Philosophy. This is why, 
** the peak of the “Age of Reason” — the age of sceptfcism and methodical doubt —- 
^ have a ferocious attack on the body, well-supported by many who subscribed to the 
doctrine. 

This is how we must read the attack against witchcraft and against that magical 
of the world which, despite the efforts of the Church, had continued to prevail on 
Popular level through the Middle Ages. At the basis of magic was an animistic con- 
on of nature that did not admit to any separation between matter and spirit, and 
lin agined the cosmos as a living organism, populated by occult forces, where every 


141 





Frontispiece to the first edition 0 j 
Christopher Marlowe's Dr> ct^ r 
Fausivs (1604), picturing fa 
magician conjuring the Devil j ro ^ 
the protected space of his magical 
circle. 


element was in “sympathetic” relation with the rest. In this perspective, where nature was 
viewed as a universe of signs and signatures, marking invisible affinities that had to be 
deciphered (Foucault 1970: 26-27), every element — herbs, plants, metals, and most of 
all the human body — hid virtues and powers peculiar to it.Thus, a variety of practices 
were designed to appropriate the secrets of nature and bend its powers to the human 
will. From palmistry to divination, from the use of charms to sympathetic healing, magic 
opened a vast number of possibilities.There was magic designed to win card games, to 
play unknown instruments, to become invisible, to win somebody’s love, to gain immu¬ 
nity in war, to make children sleep (Thomas 1971; Wilson 2000). 

Eradicating these practices was a necessary condition for the capi»list rationaliza¬ 
tion of work, since magic appeared as an illicit form of power and an instrument to obtain 
what one wanted luithout ux)rk, that is, a refusal of work in action. ‘'Magic kills industry,” 
lamented Francis Bacon, admitting that nothing repelled him so much as the assumption 
that one could obtain results with a few idle expedients, rather than with the sweat of ones 
brow (Bacon 1870: 381). 

Magic, moreover, rested upon a qualitative conception of space and time that P re ' 
eluded a regularization of the labor process. How could the new entrepreneurs impose 
regular work patterns on a proletariat anchored in the belief that there are lucky an d 
unlucky days, that is, days on which one can travel and others on which one should nor 
move from home, days on which to marry and others on which every enterprise should 
be cautiously avoided? Equally incompatible with the capitalist work-discipline ^ 3 
conception of the cosmos that attributed special powers to the individual: the magne nC 
look, the power to make oneself invisible, to leave one’s body, to chain the W1 H °* 


ers by magical incantations. 

It would not be fruitful to investigate whether these powers were real or llU3 ^ 
nary. It can be said that all precapitalist societies have believed in them and, in re ^ 
times, we have witnessed a revaluation of practices that, at the time we refer to, vV ° u 
have been condemned as witchcraft. Let us mention the growing interest in P anJ r 


142 









. j Q gv^ and biof eedback practices that are increasingly applied even by mainstream med- 
tie. T he revival of magical beliefs is possible today because it no longer represents a 
* *al threat. The mechanization of the body is so constitutive of the individual that, at 
^ in industrialized countries, giving space to the belief in occult forces does not jeop- 
e the regularity of social behavior. Astrology too can be allowed to return, with the 
that even the most devoted consumer of astral charts will automatically con¬ 
it the watch before going to work. 

However, this was not an option for the 17 th -century ruling class which, in this 
^pal and experimental phase of capitalist development, had not yet achieved the social 
con trol necessary to neutralize the practice of magic, nor could they functionally inte- 
te magic into the organization of social lif e. From their viewpoint it hardly mattered 
whether the powers that people claimed to have, or aspired to have, were real or not, for 
the very existence of magical beliefs was a source of social insubordination. 

Take, for example, the widespread belief in the possibility of finding hidden treas¬ 
ures by the help of magical charms (Thomas 1971:234-37) .This was certainly an imped¬ 
iment to the institution of a rigorous and spontaneously accepted work-discipline. Equally 
threatening was the use that the lower classes made of prophecies, which, particularly dur¬ 
ing the English Civil War (as already in the Middle Ages), served to formulate a program 
of struggle (Elton 1972:142ff). Prophecies are not simply the expression of a fatalistic res¬ 
ignation. Historically they have been a means by which the “poor” have externalized their 
desires, given legitimacy to their plans, and have been spurred to action. Hobbes recog¬ 
nized this when he warned that “There is nothing that... so well directs men in their 
deliberations, as the foresight of the sequels of their actions; prophecy being many times 
the principal cause of the events foretold” (Hobbes, “Behemot,” Works VI: 399). 

But regardless of the dangers which magic posed, the bourgeoisie had to combat 
its power because it undermined the principle of individual responsibility, as magic placed 
the determinants of social action in the realm of the stars, out of their reach and control. 
Thus, in the rationalization of space and time that characterized the philosophical spec¬ 
ulation of the 16<h and 17^ centuries, prophecy was replaced with the calculation of prob¬ 
abilities whose advantage, from a capitalist viewpoint, is that here the future can be antic¬ 
ipated only insofar as the regularity and immutability of the system is assumed; that is, 
only insofar as it is assumed that the future will be like the past, and no major change, 
no revolution, will upset the coordinates of individual decision-making. Similarly, the 
bourgeoisie had to combat the assumption that it is possible to be in two places at the 
time, for the fixation of the body in space and time , that is, the individual's spatio-tempo - 
wf identification, is an essential condition for the regularity of the work-process. 17 

The incompatibility of magic with the capitalist work-discipline and the require¬ 
ment of social control is one of the reasons why a campaign of terror was launched against 
11 ®y the state — a terror applauded without reservations by many who are presently 
considered among the founders of scientific rationalism: Jean Bodin, Mersenne, the 
mechanical philosopher and member of the Royal Society Richard Boyle,and Newton’s 
^ c her, Isaac Barrow.l** Even the materialist Hobbes, while keeping his distance, gave 
a Pproval. “As for witches,” he wrote, “I think not that their witchcraft is any real 
but yet that they are justly punished, for the false belief they have that they can 
Su ch mischief, joined with their purpose to do it if they can” ( Leviathan 1963; 67). 




143 




The torture chamber 1809 engraving by Manet in Joseph Laval lee, 
Hisioires di:s Inquisitions reugieuses dTtalie, d’Espagne 
etde Portugal. 


He added that if these superstitions were eliminated, “men would be much more fitted 
than they are for civil obedience'’ ( ibid .). Hobbes was well advised.The stakes on which 
witches and other practitioners of magic died, and the chambers in which their tortures 
were executed, were a laboratory in which much social discipline was sedimented, and 
much knowledge about the body was gained. Here those irrationalities were eliminated 
that stood in the way of the transformation of the individual and social body into a set 
of predictable and controllable mechanisms. And it was here again that the scientific use 
of torture was born, for blood and torture were necessary to “breed an animal” capable 
of regular, homogeneous, and uniform behavior, indelibly marked with the memory of 
the new rules (Nietzsche 1965: 189-9i). 

A significant element in this context was the condemnation as tnaleftcium of abor¬ 
tion and contraception, which consigned the female body — the uterus reduced to a 
machine for the reproduction of labor — into the hands of the state and the medical 
profession. I will return later to this point, in the chapter on the witch-hunt, where 
argue that the persecution of the witches was the climax of the state intervention agaii 15t 
the proletarian body in the modern era. 

Here let us stress that despite the violence deployed by the state, the discipb n111 ^ 
of the proletariat proceeded slowly throughout the 17 th century and into the 18* cCn 
tury in the face of a strong resistance that not even the fear of execution could 
come. An emblematic example of this resistance is analyzed by Peter Linebaugh in 
Tyburn Riots Against the Surgeons” Linebaugh reports that in early l8th-ceni 


144 



J OIlf at the time of an execution, a battle was fought by the friends and relatives of 
condemned to prevent the assistants of the surgeons from seizing the corpse for use 
Anatomical studies (Linebaugh 1975).This battle was fierce, because the fear of being 
j 1 ected was no less than the fear of death. Dissection eliminated the possibility that the 
ndemned might revive after a poorly executed hanging, as often occurred in 18^-cen- 
C ° £ n gland (ibid.: 102-04). A magical conception of the body was spread among the 
c ple according to wliich the body continued to live after death, and by death was 
^ched with new powers. It was believed that the dead possessed the power to “come 
back an< ^ exact their last revenge upon the living. It was also believed that a corpse 

j^d healing virtues, so that crowds of sick people gathered around the gallows, expect¬ 
in from the limbs of the dead effects as miraculous as those attributed to the touch of 
the king 0 'bid.: 109-10). 

Dissection thus appeared as a further infamy, a second and greater death, and the 
condemned spent their last days making sure that their body should not be abandoned 
into the hands of surgeons. This battle, significantly occurring at die foot of the gallows, 
demonstrates both the violence that presided over the scientific rationalization of the 
world, and the clash of two opposite concepts of the body, two opposite invesfcnents in 
it. On one side, we have a concept of the body that sees it endowed with powers even 
after death; the corpse does not inspire repulsion, and is not treated as something rotten 
or irreducibly alien. On the other, the body is seen as dead even when still alive, insofar 
as it is conceived as a mechanical device, to be taken apart just like any machine. “At the 
g^dlows, standing at the conjunction of the Tyburn and Edgware roads,” Peter Linebaugh 
writes, “we find that the history of the London poor and the history of English science 
intersect.” This was not a coincidence; nor was it a coincidence that the progress of 
anatomy depended on the ability of the surgeons to snatch the bodies of the hanged at 
Tyburn. 19 The course of scientific rationalization was intimately connected to the 
attempt by the state to impose its control over an unwilling workforce. 

This attempt was even more important, as a determinant of new attitudes towards 
the body, than the development of technology. As David Dickson argues, connecting the 
new scientific worldview to the increasing mechanization of production can only hold as 
a metaphor (Dickson 1979: 24). Certainly, the clock and the automated devices that so 
much intrigued Descartes and liis contemporaries (e.g. hydraulically moved statues), pro¬ 
vided models for the new science, and for the speculations of Mechanical Philosophy on 
die movements of the body. It is also true that starting from the 17 th century, anatomical 
analogies were drawn from the workshops of the manufacturers: the arms were viewed as 
levers, the heart as a pump, the lungs as bellows, the eyes as lenses, the fist as a hammer 
(Mumford 1962:32). But these mechanical metaphors reflect not the influence of tech- 
Qoiogy per se, but the fact that the machine was becoming the model of social behavior. 

^ The inspirational force of the need f or social control is evident even in the field 
^astronomy. A classic example is that of Edmond Halley (the secretary of the Royal 
aft Clet y)» who, in concomitai^e with the appearance in 1695 of the comet later named 
er him, organized clubs all over England in order to demonstrate the predictability of 
^ Ph en omena, and to dispel the popular belief that comets announced social dis- 
**• That the path of scientific rationalization intersected with the disciplining of the 
body is even more evident in the social sciences. We can see, in fact, that their 


14S 




A telling example of the new 
mechanical conception of the bod • 
this 7 -century German engra^ 
ing where the peas am is represented 
as nothing tnore than a means 0 f 
product ion t »vith his body composed 
entirely of agricultural implements. 


development was premised on the homogenization of social behavior, and the con¬ 
struction of a prototypical individual to whom all would be expected to conform. In 
Marx's terms, this is an “abstract individual,” constructed in a uniform way, as a social 
average, and subject to a radical decharacterization, so that all of its faculties can be 
grasped only in their most standardized aspects. The construction of this new individ¬ 
ual was the basis for the development of what William Petty would later call (using 
Hobbes' terminology) Political Arithmetics — a new science that was to study every f° rrlJ 
of social behavior in terms of Numbers, Weights, and Measures. Petty's project was ted- 
ized with the development of statistics and demography (Wilson 1966; Cullen 197$) 
which perform on the social body the same operations that anatomy performs o n c ^ e 
individual body, as they dissect the population and study its movements — from nat ^ 
ity to mortality rates, from generational to occupational structures — in their most IliaS ~ 
sified and regular aspects. Also from the point of view of the abstraction process that 
individual underwent in the transition to capitalism, we can see that the developing 
of the “human machine” was the main technological leap, the main step in the d ev j 
opment of the productive forces that took place in the period of primitive accuin ^ 
tion. We can see, in other words, that the human body and not the steam engine, and e 
the clock, was thejirst machine developed by capitalism. 


146 








I 



147 


But if the body is a machine, one problem immediately emerges: how to male 
workPTwo different models of body-government derive from the theories of Meehan ** 
Philosophy. On one side, we have the Cartesian model that, starting from the assum^ 
tion of a purely mechanical body, postulates the possibility of developing in the i a ' 
vidual mechanisms of self-discipline, self-management, and self-regulation allowing f ' 
voluntary work-relations and government based on consent. On the other side, thet^ 
the Hobbesian model that, denying the possibility of a body-free Reason, external ** 
the functions of conunand, consigning them to the absolute authority of the state '*** 
The development of a self-management theory, starting from the mechanization 
the body, is the focus of the philosophy of Descartes, who (let us remember it) complete^ 
his intellectual formation not in the France of monarchical absolutism but in the hour 
geois Holland so congenial to his spirit that he elected it as his abode. Descartes* doctrines 
liave a double aim: to deny that human behavior can be influenced by external factors (such 
as the stars, or celestial intelligences), and to free the soul from any bodily conditioning 
thus making it capable of exercising an unlimited sovereignty over the body. 

Descartes believed that he could accomplish both tasks by demonstrating the 
mechanical nature of animal behavior. Nothing, he claimed in his Le Monde (1633), causes 
so many errors as die belief that animals have a soul like ours. Thus, in preparation for 
liis Treatise of Man, he devoted many months to studying the anatomy of animal organs; 
every morning he went to die butcher to observe the quartering of the beasts.20 He even 
performed many vivisections, likely comforted by his belief that, being mere brutes “des¬ 
titute of Reason,” the animals he dissected could not feel any pain (Rosenfieldl 968:8).2l 
To be able to demonstrate the brutality of animals was essential for Descartes, 
because he was convinced that here he could find the answer to his questions concern¬ 
ing the location, nature, and extent of the power controlling human conduct. He believed 
that in die dissected animal he would find proof that the body is only capable of mechan¬ 
ical, and involuntary actions; that, consequently, it is not constitutive of the person; and 
that the human essence, therefore, resides in purely immaterial faculties.The human body, 
too, is an automaton for Descartes, but what differentiates “man 1 * from the beast and con¬ 
fers upon“liim” mastery over the surrounding world is the presence of diought.Thus, the 
soul, which Descartes displaces from the cosmos and the sphere of corporeality, returns at 
the center of his philosophy endowed with infinite power under the guise of individual 
reason and will. 


Placed in a soulless world and in a body-machine, the Cartesian man, like Prospera 
could then break his magic wand, becoming not only responsible for his own actions, but 
seemingly the center of all powers. In being divorced from its body, the rational self-cer- 
tainly lost its solidarity with its corporeal reality and with nature. Its solitude, ho wever ’ 
was to be that of a king: in the Cartesian model of the person, there is no egalitarian dual' 
ism between the thinking head and the body-machine, only a master/slave relation, since 
the primary task of the will is to dominate the body and the natural world. In the Cartesian 
model of the person, then, we see the same centralization of the functions of conU ll3l1 d 
that in the same period was occurring at the level of the state: as the task of the state 
to govern the social body, so the mind became sovereign in the new personality. ., 
Descartes concedes that the supremacy of the mind over the body is not e3S 
achieved, as Reason must confront its inner contradictions. Thus, in The Passion* 


148 



f t (1650), he introduces us to the prospect of a constant battle between the lower and 

f aculties the soul which he describes in almost military terms, appealing to our 
to be brave, and to gain the proper arms to resist the attacks of our passions. We 
s t be prepared to suffer temporary defeats, for our will might not always be capable 
f or arrest ing its passions. It can, however, neutralize them by diverting its 

Mention to some other thing, or it can restrain the movements to which they dispose 
body* h can, in other words, prevent the passions from becoming actions (Descartes 

1973.1:354-55). 

With the institution of a hierarchical relation between mind and body, Descartes 
developed the theoretical premises for the work-discipline required by the developing 
capitalist economy. For the mind's supremacy over the body implies that the will can (in 
principle) control the needs, reactions, reflexes of the body; it can impose a regular order 
on its vital functions, and force the body to work according to external specifications, 
indepeudendy of its desires. 

Most importantly, the supremacy of the will allows for the interiorizadon of the 
mechanisms of power. Thus, the counterpart of the mechanization of the body is the 
development of Reason in its role as judge, inquisitor, manager, administrator. We find 
here the origins of bourgeois subjectivity as self-management, self -ownership, law, respon¬ 
sibility, with its corollaries of memory and identity. Here we also find the origin of that 
proliferation of “micro-powers" that Michel Foucault has described in his critique of the 
juridico-discursive model of Power (Foucault 1977). The Cartesian model shows, how- 
ever,that Power can be decentered and diffused through the social body only to the extent 
that it is recentered in the person, which is thus reconstituted as a micro-state. In other 
words, in being diffused. Power does not lose its vector — that is, its content and its aims 
— but simply acquires the collaboration of the Self in their promotion. 

Consider, in this context, the thesis proposed by Brian Easlea, according to which 
the main benefit that Cartesian dualism offered to the capitalist class was the Christian 
defense of the immortality of the soul, and the possibility of defeating the atheism implicit 
in Natural Magic, which was loaded with subversive implications (Easlea 1980: 132ff). 
Easlea argues, in support of this view, that the defense of religion was a central theme in 
Cartesianism, winch, particularly in its English version, never forgot that “No Spirit, No 
God; No Bishop, No King" (ibid.: 202). Easleas argument is attractive; yet its insistence 
on the “reactionary" elements in Descartes’s thought makes it impossible for Easlea to 
ailsvv er a question that he himself raises. Why was the hold of Cartesianism in Europe so 
^ng that, even after Newtonian physics dispelled the belief in a natural world void of 
fFult powers, and even after the advent of religious tolerance, Cartesianism continued 
to shape the dominant worldview? 1 suggest that the popularity of Cartesianism among 
the middle and upper class was directly related to the program of self-mastery that Descartes’ 
tosophy promoted. In its social implications, this program was as important to 
JP^ttess elite contemporaries as the hegemonic relation between humans and nature 
15 legitimized by Cartesian dualism. 

l The development of self-management (i.e., self-government, self-development) 
Atonies an essent j a j requirement in a capitalist socio-economic system in which self- 
ers hip is assumed to be the fundamental social relation, and discipline no longer relies 
V on external coercion.The social significance of Cartesian philosophy lies in part 


149 



I 

in the fact that it provides an intellectual justification for it. In this way, Descartes’theo 
of self-management defeats but also recuperates the active side of Natural Magic. For^ 
replaces the unpredictable power of the magician (built on the subtle manipulation ^ 
astral influences and correspondences) with a power far more profitable — a power f or 
which no soul has to be forfeited — generated only through the administration and do^ 
ination of one’s body and, by extension, the administration and domination of the bod 
ies of other fellow beings. We cannot say, then, as Easlea does (repeating a criticism raised 
by Leibniz), that Cartesiamsm failed to translate its tenets into a set of practical regula 
tions, that is, that it failed to demonstrate to the philosophers — and above all to the mer 
chants and manufacturers — how they would benefit from it in their attempt to cont^ 
the matter of the world (Ibid.: 151). 

IfCartesianism failed to give a technological translation of its precepts, it nonethe¬ 
less provided precious information with regard to the development of”human technol¬ 
ogy.” Its insights into the dynamics of self -control would lead to the construction of a 
new model of the person, wherein the individual would function at once as both mas¬ 
ter and slave. It is because it interpreted so well the requirements of the capitalist work- 
discipline that Descartes’ doctrine, by the end of the 17 th century, had spread through¬ 
out Europe and survived even the advent of vitalistic biology as well as the increasing 
obsolescence of the mechanistic paradigm. 

The reasons for Descartes’ triumph are clearest when we compare his account of 
the person with that of his English rival, Thomas Hobbes. Hobbes’ biological monism 
rejects the postulate of an immaterial mind or soul that is the basis of Descartes’ concept 
of the person, and with it the Cartesian assumption that the human will can free itself from 
corporeal and instinctual determinism. 22 For Hobbes, human behavior is a conglomerate 
of reflex actions that follow precise natural laws, and compel the individual to incessantly 
strive for power and domination over others (Leviathan: 141£f). Thus the war of all against 
all (in a hypothetical state of nature), and the necessity for an absolute power guarantee' 
ing, through fear and punishment, the survival of the individual in society 

For the laws of nature, as justice, equity, modesty, mercy, and, in sum, 
doing to others as we would be done to, of themselves, without the 
terror of some power to cause them to be observed, are contrary to 
our natural passions, that carry us to partiality, pride, revenge and the 
like (ibid.: 173). 


As is well known, Hobbes’ political doctrine caused a scandal among his con tern- 
poraries, who considered it dangerous and subversive, so much so that, although he 
strongly desired it, Hobbes was never admitted to the Royal Society (Bowie 1952:163). 
Against Hobbes, it was the Cartesian model that prevailed, for it expressed die 


already active tendency to democratize the mechanisms of social discipline by attribuong 
to the individual will that function of command which, in the Hobbesian model, * s le ^ 
solely in the hands of the state. As many critics of Hobbes maintained, the foundations 
public discipline must be rooted in the hearts of men, for in the absence of an 
legislation men are inevitably led to revolution (quoted in Bowie 1951: 97-98)- ^ 
Hobbes,” complained Henry Moore, “there is no freedom of will and consequently 1 


ISO 



jjjorse of conscience or reason, but only what pleases the one with the longest sword'* 
f u oted in Easlea 1980:159). More explicit was Alexander Ross, who observed that “it is 
curb of conscience that restrains men from rebellion, there is no outward law or force 
ore powerful... there is no judge so severe, no torturer so cruel as an accusing con- 
^ence” (quoted in Bowie 1952: 167). 

The contemporaneous critique of Hobbes' atheism and materialism was clearly 
not motivated purely by religious concerns. His view of the individual as a machine 
^oved only by its appetites and aversions was rejected not because it eliminated the con¬ 
cept of the human creature made in the image of God, but because it eb minated the 
possibility of a form of social control not depending wholly on the iron rule of the state. 
Here, I argue, is the main difference between Hobbes’ philosophy and Cartesianism.This, 
however, cannot be seen if we insist on stressing the feudal elements in Descartes’ phi¬ 
losophy, and in particular its defense of the existence of God with all that tliis entailed, 
as a defense of the power of the state. If we do privilege the feudal Descartes we miss the 
feet that the elimination of the religious element in Hobbes (i.e., the belief in the exis¬ 
tence of incorporeal substances) was actually a response to the democratization implicit in 
the Cartesian model of self-mastery which Hobbes undoubtedly distrusted. As the activism 
of the Puritan sects during the English Civil War had demonstrated, self-mastery could 
easily turn into a subversive proposition. For the Puritans’ appeal to return the manage¬ 
ment of one’s behavior to the individual conscience, and to make of one’s conscience 
die ultimate judge of truth, had become radicalized in the hands of the sectaries into an 
anarchic refusal of established authority 23 The example of the Diggers and Ranters, and 
of the scores of mechanic preachers who, in the name of the “light of conscience,” had 
opposed state legislation as well as private property, must have convinced Hobbes that 
the appeal to “Reason” was a dangerously double-edged weapon. 24 

The conflict between Cartesian “theism” and Hobbesian “materialism” was to be 
resolved in time in their reciprocal assimilation, in the sense that (as always in the his¬ 
tory of capitalism) the decentralization of the mechanisms of command, through their 
location in the individual, was finally obtained only to the extent that a centralization 
occurred in the power of the state.To put this resolution in the terms in which the debate 
was posed in the course of the English Civil War: “neither the Diggers nor Absolutism,” 
but a well-calculated mixture of both, whereby the democratization of command would 
rest on the shoulders of a state always ready, like the Newtonian God, to reimpose order 
on the souls who proceeded too far in the ways of self-determination. The crux of the 
matter was lucidly expressed by Joseph Glanvil, a Cartesian member of the Royal Society 
T°» in a polemic against Hobbes, argued that the crucial issue was the control of the 
over the body. This, however, did not simply imply the control of the ruling class 
(the mind par excellence) over the body-proletariat, but, equally important, the develop¬ 
ment of the capacity for self-control within the person. 

^ As Foucault has demonstrated, the mechanization of the body did not only involve 
e re pression of desires, emotions, or forms of behavior that were to be eradicated. It also 
mv oived the developent of new faculties in the individual that would appear as other with 
^Pect to the body itself, and become the agents of its transformation. The product of this 
nation from the body, in other words, was the development of individual identity, con- 
e<4 Precisely as “otherness” from the body, and in perennial antagonism with it. 


151 


I 


The emergence of this alter ego, and the determination of a historic confli^ 
between mind and body, represent the birth of the individual in capi talistsociety. It would 
become a typical characteristic of the individual molded by the capitalist work-disci pl lrie 
to confiont one’s body as an alien reality to be assessed, developed and kept at bay i n 
order to obtain from it the desired results. 

As we pointed out, among the 44 lower classes” the development of self-management 
as self-discipline remained, for a long time, an object of speculation. How little self-disci 
pline was expected from the‘‘common people” can be judged fiom the fact that, rigfo 
into the 18^ century, 160 crimes in England were punishable by death (Linebaugh 1992) 
and every year thousands of “common people” were transported to the colonies or com 
demned to the galleys. Moreover, when the populace appealed to reason, it was to voice 
anti-authoritarian demands, since self-mastery at the popular level meant the rejection 0 f 
the established authority, rather than the interiorization of social rule. 

Indeed, through the 17 th century, self-management remained a bourgeois pie- 
rogative.As Easlea points out, when the philosophers spoke of“man" as a rational being 
they made exclusive reference to a small elite made of white, upper-class, adult males. 
“The great multitude of men ” wrote Henry Power, an English follower of Descartes, 
“resembles rather Descartes’ automata, as they lack any reasoning power, and only as a 
metaphor can be called men” (Easleal 980:140). 25 The “better sorts” agreed that the pro¬ 
letariat was of a different race. In their eyes, made suspicious by fear, the proletariat 
appeared as a “great beast,” a “many-headed monster” wild, vociferous, given to any 
excess (Hill 1975:181 fF; Linebaugh and Rediker 2000). On an individual level as well,a 
ritual vocabulary identified the masses as purely instinctual beings. Thus, in the 
Elizabethan literature, the beggar is always “lusty,” and “sturdy,” “rude,” “hot-headed/ 1 
“disorderly” are the ever-recurrent terms in any discussion of the lower class. 

In this process, not only did the body lose all naturalistic connotations, but a body ■- 
function began to emerge, in the sense that the body became a purely relational term, no 
longer signifying any specific reality, but identifying instead any impediment to the dom¬ 
ination of Reason. This means that while the proletariat became a “body,” the body 
became “the proletariat,” and in particular the weak, irrational female (the “woman in 
us,” as Hamlet was to say) or the “wild” African, being purely defined through its limit¬ 
ing function, that is through its “otherness” from Reason, and treated as an agent of inter¬ 
nal subversion. 

Yet, the struggle against this “great beast” was not solely directed against the “lower 
sort of people.” It was also interiorized by the dominant classes in the battle they waged 
against their own “natural state.” As we have seen, no less than Prospero,the bourgeois^ 
too had to recognize that 44 [t]his thing of darkness is mine,” that is, that Caliban was P art 
of itself (Brown 1988; TyHard 1961:34-35). This awareness pervades the litei-ary produc¬ 
tion of the 16 th and 17 th centuries. The terminology is revealing. Even those who m 
not follow Descartes saw the body as a beast that had to be kept incessantly under cow 
trol. Its instincts were compared to “subjects” to be “governed,” the senses were seen ** 
a prison for the reasoning soul. 

O who shall, fiom this Dungeon, raise 
A Soul inslav’d so many wayes? 


152 





I 


asked Andrew Marvell, in his “Dialogue Between the Soul and the Body.’* 

With bolts of Bones, that fetter’d stands 
In Feet; and manacled in Hands. 

Here blinded with an Eye; and there 
Deaf with the drumming of an Ear. 

A Soul hung up, as t’were, in Chain 
Of Nerves, and Arteries, and Veins 

(quoted by Hill 1964b: 345). 

The conflict between appetites and reason was a key theme in Elizabethan liter- 
ature (Tillyard 1961: 75), while among the Puritans the idea began to take hold that the 
“Antichrist” is in every man. Meanwhile, debates on education and on the “nature of 
man” current among the “middle sort” centered around the body/mind conflict, posing 
the crucial question of whether human beings are voluntary or involuntary agents. 

But the definition of a new relation with the body did not remain at a purely ide¬ 
ological level. Many practices began to appear in daily life to signal the deep transforma¬ 
tions occurring in this domain: the use of cutlery, the development of shame with respect 
to nakedness, the advent of “manners” that attempted to regulate how one laughed, 
walked, sneezed, how one should behave at the table, and to what extent one could sing, 
joke, play (Elias 1978: 129fJ). While the individual was increasingly dissociated from the 
body, the latter became an object of constant observation, as if it were an enemy.The body 
began to inspire fear and repugnance. “The body of man is full of filth,” declared Jonathan 
Edwards, whose attitude is typical of the Puritan experience, where the subjugation of 
the body was a daily practice (Greven 1977: 67). Particularly repugnant were those bod¬ 
ily functions that directly confronted “men” with their “animality.” Witness the case of 
Cotton Mather who, in his Diary , confessed how humiliated he felt one day when, uri- 
nating against a wall, he saw a dog doing the same: 

Thought I ‘what vile and meanThingsare the Children of Men 
in this mortal State. How much do our natural Necessities abase us, 
and place us in some regard on the same level with the very Dogs’... 
Accordingly I resolved that it should be my ordinary Practice, when¬ 
ever I step to answer the one or the other Necessity of Nature, to make 
it an Opportunity of shaping in my Mind some holy, noble, divine 
Thought (ibid.). 

The great medical passion of die time, the analysis of excrements — from which 
^anifold deductions were drawn on the psychological tendencies of the individual 
u CCS ’ virtues ) (Hunt 1970: 143-46) — is also to be traced back to this conception of 
c body as a receptacle of filth and hidden dangers. Clearly, this obsession with human 
^ Ctem ents reflected in part the disgust that the nuddle class was beginning to feel for 
n °n-productive aspects of the body — a disgust inevitably accentuated in an urban 
^^°ninent where excrements posed a logistic problem, in addition to appearing as 
'vaste. But in this obsession we can also read the bourgeois need to regulate and 


1S3 


cleanse the body-machine from any element that could interrupt its activity, and creat e 
‘‘dead time” in the expenditure of labor. Excrements were so much analyzed and deb asec j 
because they were the symbol of the “ill humors” that were believed to dwell in the bo^ 
to which every perverse tendency in human beings was attributed. For the Puritans th ^ 
became the visible sign of the corruption of human natures sort of original sin that ha^ 
to be combatted, subjugated, exorcised. Hence the use of purges, emetics, and enem^ 
that were administered to children or the “possessed” to make them expel their devil r 
(Thorndike 1958: 553ff). lCS 

In this obsessive attempt to conquer the body in its most intimate recesses, we S e e 
reflected the same passion with which, in these same years, the bourgeoisie tried to con 
quer — we could say “colonize”— that alien, dangerous, unproductive being that in its 
eyes was the pioletariat. For the proletarian was the great Caliban of the time-The 
letarian was that “material being by itself raw and undigested” that Petty recommended 
be consigned to the hands of the state, which, in its prudence,“must better it, manage it 
and shape it to its advantage” (Furniss 1957:17ff). 

Like Caliban, the proletariat personified the “ill humors” that hid in the social 
body, beginning with the disgusting monsters of idleness and drunkenness. In the eyes 
of his masters, its life was pure inertia, but at the same time was uncontrolled passion and 
unbridled fantasy, ever ready to explode in riotous commotions. Above all, it was indis¬ 
cipline, lack of productivity, incontinence, lust for immediate physical satisfaction; its 
utopia being not a life of labor, but the land of Cockaigne (Burke 1978; Graus 1987),26 
where houses were made of sugar, rivers of milk, and where not only could one obtain 
what one wished without effort, but one was paid to eat and drink: 


To sleep one hour 
of deep sleep 
without waking 
one earns six francs; 
and to drink well 
one earns a pistol; 
this country is jolly, 
one earns ten francs a day 
to make love (Burke: 190). 

The idea of transforming this lazy being, who dreamt of life as a long Carnival* 
into an indefatigable worker, must have seemed a desperate enterprise. It meant literally 
to “turn the world upside down,”but in a totally capitalist fashion, where inertia to com¬ 
mand would be transformed into lack of desire and autonomous will, where vis 
would become vis lawratiw, and where need would be experienced only as lack, abstinent 
and eternal indigence. 

Hence this battle against the body, which chaiacterized the early phase of cap 1 
talist development, and which has continued, in different ways, to our day. Hence ^ 
mechanization of the body, which was the project of the new Natural Philosophy 311 
the focal point for the first experiments in the organization of the state. If we move A 1011 
the witch-hunt to the speculations of Mechanical Philosophy, and the Puritans '° C 


investigations of individual talents, we see that a single thread ties the seeiningh 
° reent P at ^ ls soc ^ a ^ legislation, religious reform, and the scientific rationalization o 
ji ^iverse.Tliis was the attempt to rationalize human nature, whose powers had to b< 
liannelled and subordinated to the development and formation of labor-power, 
^we have seen, the body was increasingly politicized in this process; it was denat- 
--lized and redefined as the “other,” the outer limit of social discipline.Thus, the birth 
f* t h e body in the 17* century also marked its end, as the concept of the body would 
°case to define a specific organic reality, and become instead a political signifier of class 
iclations,and of the shifting, continuously redrawn boundaries which these relations pro¬ 
duce in the map of human exploitation. 


| Endnotes 

j Prospero is a “new man.” Didactically, his misfortunes are attributed by Shakespeare 
to his excessive interest in magic books, which in the end he renounces for a more 
active life in his native kingdom, where he will draw his power not from magic, but 
from the government of his subjects. But already in the island of his exile, his activ¬ 
ities prefigure a new world order, where power is not gained through a magic wand 
but through the enslavement of many Calibans in far distant colonies. Prosperous 
exploitative management of Caliban prefigures the role of the future plantation mas¬ 
ter, who will spare no torture nor torment to force his subjects to work. 

2. “(E]very man is his own greatest enemy, and as it were, his own executioner,” 
Thomas Browne writes. Pascal, too, in the Penste, declares that: “There is internal 
war in man between reason and the passions. If he had only reasons without pas¬ 
sions.... If he had only passions without reason.... But having both, he cannot be 
without strife....Thus he is always divided against, and opposed to himself (Petisee> 
412:130). On the Passions/Reason conflict, and the “correspondences” between the 
human “microcosm” and the “body politic,” in Elizabethan literature see Tillyard 
(1961:75-79; 94-99). 

3- The reformation of language — a key theme in 16 th and 17 E * 1 -century philosophy, 
from Bacon to Locke — was a major concern of Joseph Glanvil, who in his Vanity 
of Dogmatizing (1665), after proclaiming his adherence to the Cartesian world view, 
advocates a language fit to describe clear and distinct entities (Glanvil 1970: 
xxvi-xxx).As S.Medcalfsums it up in his introduction to Glanvil’s work, a language 
fit to describe such a world will bear broad similarities to mathematics, will have 
words of great generality and clarity; will present a picture of the universe accord- 
ln £ to its logical structure; will distinguish snarply between mind and matter, and 
between subjective and objective, and “will avoid metaphor as a way of knowing 
and describing, for metaphor depends on the assumption that the universe does not 
consist of wholly distinct entities and cannot therefore be fully described in posi- 

^ &ve distinct terms...” (ibid/, xxx). 

does not distinguish between male and female workers in his discussion of the 
“liberation of labor-power "There is, however, a reason for maintaining the mascu- 
in the description of this process. While “freed” from the conunons, women 




1SS 


were not channeled onto the path of the wage-labor market. 

5. “With labour I must earn / My bread; what harm? Idleness had been worse; / ^ 
labour will sustain me” is Adam's answer to Eve’s fears at the prospect of leaving ^ 
blessed garden ( Paradise Lost , verses 1054-56, p- 579). 

6 . As Christopher Hill points out, until the 15 th century, wage-labor could hay e 
appeared as a conquered freedom, because people still had access to the com n i 0ns 
and had land of their own, thus they were not solely dependent on a wage. B Ut 
by the 16 th century, those who worked for a wage had been expropriated; more 
over, the employers claimed that wages were only complementary, and kept them 
at their lowest level. Thus, working for a wage meant to fall to the bottom of the 
social ladder, and people struggled desperately to avoid this lot (Hill, I 975 . 
220-22). By the 17 th century wage-labor was still considered a form of slavery s0 
much so that the Levelers excluded wage workers from the franchise, as they did 
not consider them independent enough to be able to freely choose their repre¬ 
sentatives (Macpherson 1962: 107-59). 

7. When in 1622 Thomas Mun was asked byjames I to investigate the causes of the eco¬ 
nomic crisis that had struck the country, he concluded his report by blaming the prob¬ 
lems of the nation on the idleness of the English workers. He referred in particular to 
“the general leprosy of our piping, potting, feasting, factions and misspending of our 
time in idleness and pleasure” which, in his view, placed England at a disadvantage in 
its commercial competition with the industrious Dutch (Hill, 1975:125). 

8 . (Wright 1960: 80-83; Thomas 1971; Van Ussel 1971: 25-92; Riley 1973: I9ff; 
Underdown 1985:7-72). 

9. The fear the lower classes (the “base,” “meaner sorts,” in the jargon of the time) 
inspired in the ruling class can be measured by this tale narrated in Social England 
Illustrated (1903). In 1580, Francis Hitchcock, in a pamphlet titled “New Year’s Gift 
to England,” forwarded the proposal to draft the poor of the country into the Navy, 
arguing: “the poorer sort of people are... apt to assist rebellion or to join with whom- 
soever dare to invade this noble island... then they are meet guides to bring soldieis 
or men of war to the rich men’s wealth. For they can point with their finger‘there 
it is’,‘yonder it is’ and ‘He hath it’, and so procure martyrdom with mutder to many 
wealthy persons for their wealth....” Hitchcock’s proposal, however, was defeated; ]t 
was objected that if the poor of England were drafted into the navy they would steal 
the ships or become pirates ( Social England Illustrated 1903: 85-86). 

10. Eli F. Heckscher writes that “In his most important theoretical work A Treatise qfE^ es 
and Contributions (1662) [Sir William Petty] suggested the substitution of comp u l' 
sory labour for all penalties,‘which will increase labour and public wealth’. "“Why 
[he inquired] should not insolvent Thieves be rather punished with slavery £ h an 
death? So as being slaves they may be forced to as much labour, and as cheap 25 
nature will endure, and thereby become as two men added to the Commonweal, 
and not as one taken away from it” (Heckscher 1962, II: 297). In France, Colb eTt 
exhorted the Court of Justice to condemn as many convicts as possible to the P* 
leys in order to “maintain this corps which is necessary to the state” (ibid.: 298~^’ 

11. The Ireatise on Man (Haiti de I’Homme), which was published twelve years & cX 
Descartes’ death as L* Homme de Rent Descartes (1664), opens Descartes’ “ inatUl 


1S6 


I 



12 . 

13. 


14. 


15. 


16. 


period.” Here, applying Galileo’s physics to an investigation of the attributes of the 
body, Descartes attempted to explain all physiological functions as matter in motion. 
“I desire you to consider” (Descartes wrote at the end of the Treatise) . - that all the 
functions that I have attributed to this machine... follow naturally... from the dis¬ 
position of the organs — no more no less than do the movements of a clock or other 
auto maton, from the arrangement of its counterweights and wheels” (Treatise: 113). 
It was a Puritan tenet that God has given “man” special gifts fitting him for a par¬ 
ticular Calling; hence the need for a meticulous self-examination to resolve the 
Calling for which we have been designed (Morganl966:72-73; Weberl958: 47fl). 
As Giovanna Ferrari has shown,one of the main innovations introduced by the study 
of anatomy in 16th-century Europe was die “anatomy dieater,” where dissection was 
organized as a public ceremony, subject to regulations similar to those that governed 
theatrical performances: 

Both in Italy and abroad, public anatomy lessons had developed in 
modern times into ritualized ceremonies that were held in places spe¬ 
cially set aside for them. Their similarity to theatrical performances is 
immediately apparent if one bears in mind certain of their features: the 
division of the lessons into different phases... the institution of a paid 
entrance ticket and the performance of music to entertain the audience, 
the rules introduced to regulate the behaviour of those attending and 
the care taken over the “production.” WS. Heckscher even argues that 
many general theater techniques were originally designed with the per¬ 
formance of public anatomy lessons in mind (Ferrari 1987:82-83). 

According to Mario Galzigna,the epistemological revolution operated by anatomy 
in the 16* b century is the birthplace of the mechanistic paradigm. It is the anatom¬ 
ical coupure that breaks the bond between microcosm and macrocosm, and posits 
the body both as a separate reality and as a place of production, in Vesalius’ words: 
a factory ( fabrica ). 

Also in The Passions of the Soul (Article VI), Descartes minimizes “the difference that 
exists between a living body and a dead body”: 

...we may judge that the body of a living man differs from that of a 
dead man just as does a watch or other automaton (i.e. a machine that 
moves of itself), when it is wound up and contains in itself the cor¬ 
poreal principle of those movements.. .from the same watch or other 
machine when it is broken and when the principle of its movement 
ceases to act (Descartes 1973,Vol. I, ibid.). 

Particularly important in this context was the attack on the “imagination” ( u vis imag- 
inativa ") which in 16 ,Jl and 17^-century Natural Magic was considered a powerful 
force by which the magician could affect the surrounding world and bring about 
health or sickness, not only in its proper body, but also in other bodies” (Easlea 
1980: 94ff). Hobbes devoted a chapter of the Leviathan to demonstrating that the 
Pagination is only a “decaying sense,” no different from memory, only gradually 
Wakened by the removal of the objects of our perception (Part I, Chapter 2); a cri- 
U 9 ue of imagination is also found in Sir Thomas Browne’s Religio Medici (1642). 


157 



17. Writes Hobbes:“No man therefore can conceive any thing, but he must con ce - 
it in some place... not that anything is all in this place and all in another pj ac ^ 
the same time; nor that two or more things can be in one and the same pl a ** 
once” (Leviathan: 72). 

18. Among the supporters of the witch-hunt was Sir Thomas Browne, a doctor 
reputedly an early defender of “scientific freedom whose work in the eyes 0 f 
contemporaries “possessed a dangerous savour of skepticism” (Gosse 1905- ocf 
Thomas Browne contributed personally to the death of two women accused 
being“witches” who, but for his intervention, would have been saved ft om t h e 
lows, so absurd were the charges against them (Gosse 1905:147-49). For a detail^ 
analysis of this trial see Gilbert Geis and Ivan Bunn (1997). 

19. In every country where anatomy flourished, in 16 lh -century Europe, statutes wer e 
passed by the authorities allowing the bodies of those executed to be used fo r 
anatomical studies. In England “the College of Physicians entered the anato m ic a l 
field in 1565 when Elizabeth I granted them the right of claiming the bodies of dis¬ 
sected felons” (O’Malley 1964). On the collaboration between the authorities and 
anatomists in 16 tl > and 17 lh -century Bologna, see Giovanna Ferrari (pp. 59,60,64, 
87—8), who points out that not only those executed but also the “meanest” of those 
who died at the hospital were set aside for the anatomists. In one case, a sentence to 
life was commuted into a death sentence to satisfy the demand of the scholars. 

20. According to Descartes’ first biographer. Monsieur Adrien Baillet, in preparation for 
his Treatise of Man, in 1629, Descartes, while in Amsterdam, daily visited the slaugh¬ 
terhouses of the town, and performed dissections on various parts of animals: 

...he set about the execution of his design by studying anatomy, to 
which he devoted the whole of the winter that he spent in 
Amsterdam. To Father Mersenne he testified that his eagerness for 
knowledge of this subject had made him visit, almost daily, a butcher’s, 
to witness the slaughter; and that he had caused to be brought thence 
to his dwelling whichever of the animals’ organs he desired to dissect 
at greater leisure. He often did the same thing in other places where 
he stayed after that, finding nothing personally shameful, or unworthy 
his position, in a practice that was innocent in iteelf and that could 
produce quite useful results.Thus, he made fun of certain maleficent 
and envious person who... had tried to make him out a criminal and 
had accused him of “going through the villages to see the pigs 
killed”..., [H]e did not neglect to look at what Vesalius and the most 
experienced of other authors had written about anatomy. But he 
taught himself in a much surer way by peisonally dissecting animals 
of different species (Descartes 1972: xiii-xiv). 

In a letter to Mersenne of 1633, he writes:” J’anatomize maintenant les tetes de divers 
animaux pour expliquer en quoi consistent I’imaginadon, la memoire...” (Co uS,tl 
Vol.1V: 255).Also in a letter ofjanuary 20 he refers in detail to experiments v,v ^ 
section:“Apres avoir ouverte la poitrine d’un lapin vivant... en sorte que Ie t 1011 ^ 
Ie coeur de I’aorte se voyent facilement.... Poursuivant la dissection de cet anHl ' 
vivant je lui coupe cette partie du coeur qu’on nomnie sa pointe” (ibid. Vol VII 


1S8 


finally, in June 1640, in response co Mersenne, who had asked him why animals feel 
pain if they have no soul, Descartes reassured him that they do not; for pain exists 
only with understanding, which is absent in brutes (Rosenfield 1968: 8). 

This argument effectively desensitized many of Descartes* scientifically minded 
contemporaries to the pain inflicted on animals by vivisection.This is how Nicholas 
pontaine described the atmosphere created at Port Royal by the belief in animal 
automatism: “There was hardly a solitaire , who didn’t talk of automata.... They 
administered beatings to dogs with perfect indifference and made fun of those who 
pitied the creatures as if they had felt pain.They said that animals were clocks; that 
the cr i es they emitted when struck were only the noise of a little spring which had 
been touched, but that the whole body was without feeling. They nailed poor ani¬ 
mals on boards by their four paws to vivisect them and see the circulation of the 
blood which was a great subject of conversation” (Rosenfield 1968: 54). 

2 \ Descartes’ doctrine concerning the mechanical nature of animals represented a total 
inversion widi respect to the conception of animals that had prevailed in the Middle 
Ages and until die 16 til century, which viewed them as intelligent, responsible beings, 
widi a particularly developed imagination and even the ability to speak. As Ed ward 
Westermarck, and more recently Esther Cohen, have shown, in several countries of 
Eutope, animals were tried and at times publicly executed for crimes they had com- 
micted.They were assigned a lawyer and the entire procedure — trial, sentence, exe¬ 
cution— was conducted with all formal legalities. In 1565, the citizens of Arles, for 
example, asked for the expulsion of the grasshoppers from their town, and in a dif¬ 
ferent case the worms that infested the parish were excommunicated. The last trial 
of an animal was held in France in 1845. Animals were also accepted in court as wit¬ 
nesses for the compurgatio. A man who had been condemned for murder appeared 
in cgurt with his cat and his cock and in their presence swore that he was innocent 
and was released. (Westermarckl 924:254ff; Cohen 1986). 

22. It has been argued that Hobbes arch-mechanistic perspective actually conceded 
more powers and dynamism to the body than the Cartesian account. Hobbes rejects 
Descartes dualistic ontology, and in particular the notion of the mind as an imma¬ 
terial, incorporeal substance. Viewing body and mind as a monistic continuum, he 
accounts for mental operations on the basis of physical and physiological principles. 
However, no less than Descartes, he disempowers the human organism, as he denies 
self-motion to it, and reduces bodily changes to action-reaction mechanisms. Sense 
perception, for instance, is for Hobbes the product of an action-reaction, due to the 
resistance opposed by the sense organ to the atomic impulses coming from the exter¬ 
nal object; imagination is a decaying sense. Reason too is but a computing machine. 
No less than in Descartes, in Hobbes the operations of the body are understood in 
terms of a mechanical causality, and are subjected to the same universal legislation 
^ that regulates the world of inanimate matter. 

^ Hobbes lamented in Behemoth: 

[AJfter the Bible was translated into English, every man, nay, every boy 
and wench, that could read English, thought they spoke with God 
Almighty and understood what he said when by a certain number of 
chapters a day they had read the Scriptures once or twice. The rever- 


159 


24. 


25. 


26. 


ence and obedience due to the Reformed Church here, and to the 
bishops and pastors therein was cast off, and every man became a judge 
of religion and an interpreter of the Scriptures to himself/’ (p. 190). 

He added that “numbers of men used to go forth of their own parishes and to\v n 
on working-days, leaving their calling’’in order to hear mechanical preachers (p 
Exemplary is Gerrard Winstanley’s “New Law of Righteousness” (1649), in w }^ , 
the most notorious Digger asks: 

Did die light of Reason make the earth for some men to ingrosse up 
into bags and barns, that others might be opprest with poverty? Did 
the light of Reason make this law, that if one man did not have such 
an abundance of the earth as to give to others he borrowed of; that he 
that did lend should imprison the other, and starve his body in a close 
room? Did the light of Reason make this law, that some part of 
mankinde should kill and hang another part of mankinde, that would 
not walk in their steps? (Winstanley 1941:197). 

It is tempting to suggest that this suspicion concerning the humanity of the “lower 
classes” maybe the reason why, among the first critics of Cartesian mechanism, few 
objected to Descartes’ mechanical view of the human body. As L.C. Rosenfield 
points out: “this is one of the strange things about the whole quarrel, none of the 
ardent defenders of the animal soul in this first period took up the cudgel to pre¬ 
serve the human body from the taint of mechanism” (Rosenfield 1968: 25). 
F.Graus (1967) states that “The name‘Cockaigne’first occurred in the 13d* century 
(Cucaniensis comes presumably from Kucken), and seems to have been used in par¬ 
ody,” since the first context in which it is found is a satire of an English monastery 
in the time of Edward II (Grausl967:9). Graus discusses the difference between the 
medieval concept oP*Wonderland”and the modern concept of Utopia, arguing that: 



Pieter Bruegel, Lamp or Ccx:kaigne (1567). 


160 



\n modern times the basic idea of the constructability of the ideal 
world means that Utopia must be populated with ideal beings who 
have rid themselves of their faults. The inhabitants of Utopia are 
marked by their justice and intelligence.... The utopian visions of the 
Middle Ages on the other hand start from man as he is and seek to 
fulfill his present desires (ibid.: 6). 

In Cockaigne ( Schlataffenland ), for instance, there is food and drink in abun¬ 
dance, there is no desire to “nourish oneself” sensibly, but only to gluttonize, just as 
one had longed to do in everyday life. 

In this Cockaigne.. .there is also the fountain of youth, which men and 
women step into on one side to emerge at die other side as handsome 
youths and girls.Then the story proceeds with its “Wishing Table'’attitude, 
which so well reflects the simple view of an ideal life (Graus 1967:7-8). 

In other words, the ideal of Cockaigne does not embody any rational scheme 
or notion of “progress,” but is much more “concrete ,”“lean[ing] heavily on the vil¬ 
lage setting,” and “depicts a state of perfection which in modern times knows no 
further advance (Graus ibid.). 





161 




Jan Lnyken.The execution of Anne Hendricks for ivttchcmfi in Amsterdam in 1571. 





The Great Witch-Hunt in Europe 

Une bete imparfaicte, sans foy, sans ciainte,sans costance. 

(French lT^century saying about women) 

Down from the waiste they are Centaurs, 

Though Women all above, 

But to the girdle do the gods inherit, 

Beneath is all the fiends; 

There is hell, there is darkness. 

There is the sulphurous pit, 

Burning, scalding, stench, consumption. 

(Shakespeare, King Lear) 

You are the true Hyenas, that allure us with the fairness of your skins 
and when folly has brought us within your reach,you leap upon us. 
You are the traitors ofWisdom, the impediment to Industry... the 
clogs to Virtue and the goads that drive us to all vices, impiety and 
ruin You axe the Fools Paradise, the wisemans Plague and the Grand 
Error of Nature (Walter Charleton, Ephesian Matron, 1659). 


| Introduction 

The witch-hunt rarely appears in the history of the proletariat.To this day, it remains one 
°fthe most understudied phenomena in European history 1 or, rather, world history,, if 
^consider that the charge of devil worshipping was carried by missionaries and con- 
Matadors t o the “New Wo rid “as a tool for the subjugation of the local populations. 

That the victims, in Europe, were mostly peasant women may account for the his- 
to *ians’ past indifference towards this genocide, an indifference that has bordered on 
^mplicity, since the elimination of the witches from the pages of history has contributed 
^vializing their physical elimination at the stake, suggesting that it was a phenome- 
ori °f minor significance, if not a matter of folklore. 

^ Hven those who have studied the witch-hunt (in the past almost exclusively men) 
re often worthy heirs of the 16th-century demonologists. While deploring the exter- 


163 


I 


initiation of the witches, many have insisted on portraying them as wretched f 0o ^ 
afflicted by hallucinations, so that their persecution could be explained as a process r 
“social therapy,” serving to reinforce neighborly cohesion (Midelfort 1972:3) or co u ^ 
be described in medical terms as a “panic,” a “craze,” an “epidemic,” all characteriz a tio 
that exculpate the witch hunters and depoliticize their crimes. 

Examples of the misogyny that has inspired the scholarly approach to the witc^ 
hunt abound. As Mary Daly pointed out as late as 1978, much of the literature on this 
topic has been written from “a woman-executing viewpoint” that discredits the victim 
of the persecution by portraying them as social failures (women “dishonored” or fr Us ^ 
trated in love), or even as perverts who enjoyed teasing their male inquisitors with then- 
sexual fantasies. Daly cites the example of F. G.Alexander’s and S.T.Selesnick’s The History 
of Psychiatry where we read that: 

.. .accused witches oftentimes played into the hands of the persecu¬ 
tors. A witch relieved her guilt by confessing her sexual fantasies in 
open court; at the same time, she achieved some erotic gratification 
by dwelling on all the details before her male accusers.These severely 
emotionally disturbed women were particularly susceptible to the 
suggestion that they harbored demon and devils and would confess to 
cohabiting with evil spirits, much as disturbed individuals today, influ¬ 
enced by newspaper headlines, fantasy themselves as sought-after mur¬ 
derers (Daly 1978: 213). 

There have been exceptions to this tendency to blame the victims, both among 
die first and second generation of witch-hunt scholars. Among the latter we should 
remember Alan Macfarlane (1970), E.W. Monter (1969,1976,1977), and Alfred Soman 
(1992). But it was only in the wake of the feminist movement that the witch-hunt 
emerged from the underground to which it had been confined, thanks to the feminists’ 
identificadon widi the witches, who were soon adopted as a symbol of female revolt 
(Bovenschen 1978:83ft). 2 Feminists were quick to recognize that hundreds of thousands 
of women could not have been massacred and subjected to the crudest tortures unless 
they posed a challenge to the power structure. They also realized that such a war against 
women, carried out over a period of at least two centuries, was a turning point in the 
history of women in Europe, the “original sin” in the process of social degradation that 
women suffered with the advent of capitalism, and a phenomenon, therefore, to which 
we must continually return if we are to understand the misogyny that still characterizes 
institutional practice and male-female relations. 

Marxist historians, by contrast, even when studying the “transition to cap 1 ' 
talism,” with very few exceptions, have consigned the witch-hunt to oblivion, as if Jt 
were irrelevant to the history of the class struggle. Yet, the dimensions of the massac** 
should have raised some suspicions, as hundreds of thousands of women were burn' 
hanged, and tortured in less than two centuries.^ It should also have seemed sl r nl 
cant that the witch-hunt occurred simultaneously with the colonization and exter 
mination of the populations of the New World, the English enclosures, the begi nnin ^ 
of the slave trade, the enactment of “bloody laws” against vagabonds and begga rSr 




164 



L giimaxed in that interregnum between the end of feudalism and the capitalist "take 
ff" when the peasantry in Europe reached the peak of its power but, in time, also 
consunu n ated its historic defeat. So far, however, this aspect of primitive accumula¬ 
tion has truly remained a secret.* 


Witch-burning- times and the State Initiative 


^rhat has not been recognized is that the witch-hunt was one of the most important 
nts in the development of capitalist society and the formation of the modern prole- 
fariat For the unleashing of a campaign of terror against women, unmatched by any 
other persecution, weakened the resistance of the European peasantry to the assault 
launched against it by the gentry and the state, at a time when the peasant community 
was already disintegrating under the combined impact of land privatization, increased 
taxation, and the extension of state control over every aspect of social life. The witch¬ 
hunt deepened the divisions between women and men, teaching men to fear the power 
of women, and destroyed a universe of practices, beliefs, and social subjects whose exis¬ 
tence was incompatible with the capitalist work discipline, thus redefining the main ele¬ 
ments of social reproduction. In this sense, like the contemporary attack on “popular cul¬ 
ture,” and the “Great Confinement” of paupers and vagabonds in work-houses and 
correction houses, the witch-hunt was an essential aspect of primitive accumulation and 
the “transition” to capitalism. 

Later, we will see what fears the witch-hunt dispelled for the European ruling class 
and what were its effects for the position of women in Europe. Here 1 want to stress that, 
contrary to the view propagated by the Enlightenment, the witch-hunt was not the last 
Spark of a dying feudal world. It is well established that the “superstitious” Middle Ages 
did not persecute any witches; the very concept of “witchcraft” did not take shape until 
the late Middle Ages, and never, in the “Dark Ages,” were there mass trials and execu¬ 
tions, despite the fact that magic permeated daily life and, since the late Roman Empire, 
U had been feared by the ruling class as a tool of insubordination among the slaves . 5 

In the 7 th and 8 th centuries, the crime of malefidum was introduced in the codes 
of the new Teutonic kingdoms, as it had been in the Roman code. This was the time of 
the Arab conquest that, apparently, inflamed the hearts of the slaves in Europe with the 
Ptospect of freedom, inspiring them to take arms against their owners.&Thus, this legal 
innovation may have been a reaction to the fear generated among the elites by the 
advance of the “Saracens” who were, reputedly, great experts in the magical arts (Chejne 
1^83: 115—32). But, at this time, under the name of malepciunu only magical practices 
Were punished that inflicted damage to persons and things, and the church criticized 
Aose who believed in magical deeds . 7 


The situation changed by the mid the 15 th century. It was in this age of popular 
^ V °lts, epidemics, and incipient feudal crisis that we have the first witch trials (in 
mem France, Germany, Switzerland, Italy), the first descriptions of the Sabbat , 8 and 
development of the doctrine of witchcraft, by which sorcery was declared a form of 
and the highest crime against God, Nature, and the State (Monter 1976: 11-17). 
1435 anc j 1487 , twenty-eight treatises on witchcraft were written (Monter 


16 S 


I 


1976: 19) culminating, on the eve of Columbus* voyage, with the publication in ^ 
the infamous Malleus Maleficarum (The Hammer ofWitches) that, following a new p 3 p^ 
Bull on the subject. InnocentVIJI’s Stwimrs Desiderantes (1484), indicated that the Chu^ 
considered witchcraft a new threat. However, the intellectual climate that prevailed tim¬ 
ing the Renaissance, especially in Italy, was still characterized by skepticism towards a n y 
thing relating to the supernatural. Italian intellectuals, from Ludovico Ariosto to 
Giordano Bruno, and Nicolo Machiavelli looked with irony at the clerical tales COn 
cerning the deeds of the devil, stressing, by contrast (especially in the case of Bruno), the 
nefarious power of gold and money. “Non i tic anti ma eontattti” (“not charms but coins”) 
is the motto of a character in one of Bruno’s comedies,sumining up the perspective of 
the intellectual elite and the aristocratic circles of the time (Parinetto 1998: 29-99) 

It was after the mid-16 th century, in the very decades in which the Spanish con¬ 
quistadors were subjugating the American populations, that the number of women tried 
as witches escalated, and the initiative for the persecution passed from the Inquisition to 
the secular courts (Monter 1976:26). Witch-hunting reached its peak between 1580 and 
1630, in a period, that is, when feudal relations were already giving way to the economic 
and political institutions typical of mercantile capitalism. It was in this long “Iron 
Century” that, almost by a tacit agreement, in countries often at war against each other, 
the stakes multiplied and the state started denouncing the existence of witches and tak¬ 
ing the initiative of the persecution. 

It was the Carolina — the Imperial legal code enacted by the Catholic CharlesV 
in 1532 — that established that witchcraft be punished by death. In Protestant England, 
the persecution was legalized by three Acte of Parliament passed in 1542,1563 and 1604, 
this last introducing the death penalty even in the absence of any damage inflicted upon 
persons and things. After 1550, laws and ordinances making witchcraft a capital crime and 
incia ng the population to denounce suspected witches, were also passed in Scotland 
Switzerland, France, and the Spanish Netherlands. These were re-issued in subsequent 
years to expand the number of those who could be executed and, again, make witchcraji 
as such , rather than the damages presumably provoked by it, the major crime. 

The mechanisms of the persecution confirm that the witch-hunt was not a spon¬ 
taneous process, “a movement from below to which the ruling and administrative classes 
were obliged to respond”(Larner 1983: l).As Christina Larner has shown in the case of 
Scotland, a witch-hunt required much official organization and administration.? Before 
neighbor accused neighbor, or entire communities were seized by a “panic,” a steady indoc¬ 
trination took place, with the authorities publicly expressing anxiety about the spreading 
of witches, and travelling from village to village in order to teach people how to recognize 
them, in some cases carrying with them lists with the names of suspected witches all d 
tlueatening to punish those who hid them or came to their assistance (Larner 1983:2)- 


In Scotland, with the Synod of Aberdeen (1603), the ministers of the Presbyterian 
Church were ordered to ask their parishioners, under oath, if they suspected anyone of 
being a witch. Boxes were placed in the churches to allow the informers to remain anonY 
mous; then, after a woman had fallen under suspicion, the minister exhorted the fait* 1 
from the pulpit to testify against her and forbid anyone to give her help (Black 1971 : 1 /' 
In the other countries too, denunciations were solicited. In Germany, this was the task 
the “visitors” appointed by the Lutheran Church with the consent of the German pri rKeS 




166 





IVrrcHi-s Sabbath, This was the first and most famous of a series 
of engravings the Gentian artist Hans Rildung Grieti produced, 
starting in 1510, pornographically exploiting the female body under 
the guise of denuticialion. 


■ft 

A, 

j ) 

/, 

m 

A. 







I 


(Strauss 1975: 54). In Northern Italy, it was the ministers and the authorities who fij e ] e ^ 
suspicions, and made sure that they would result in denunciations; they also made su^ 
that the accused would be totally isolated, forcing them,among other things, to carry 
on their dresses so that people would keep away from them (Mazzali 1988:112). 1S 

The witch-hunt was also the first persecution in Euiope that made use of a 
media propaganda to generate a mass psychosis among the population. Alerting the p u b' 
lie to the dangers posed by the witches, through pamphlets publicizing the most famous 
trials and the details of their atrocious deeds, was one of the first tasks of the printing p rcs 
(Mandrou 1968: 136). Artists were recruited to the task, among them the German Hans 
Baldung, to whom we owe the most damning portraits of witches. But it was the jurists 
the magistrates, and the demonologists, often embodied by the same person, who ni0s( 
contributed to the persecution. They were the ones who systematized the arguments 
answered the critics and perfected a legal machine that,by the end of the 16th century, gay^ 
a standardized, almost bureaucratic format to the trials, accounting for the similarities of 
the confessions across national boundaries. In their work, the men of the law could count 
on the cooperation of the most reputed intellecruals of the time, including philosopher 
and scientists who are still praised as the fathers of modern rationalism. Among them was 
the English political theorist Thomas Hobbes, who despite his skepticism concerning the 
reality of witchcraft, approved the persecution as a means of social control. A fierce enemy 
of witches — obsessive in his hatred for them and in his calls for bloodshed — was Jean 
Bodin, the famous French lawyer and political theorist, whom historian Trevor Roper calls 
the Aristotle and Montesquieu of the 16th century Bodin, who is credited with authoring 
the first treatise on inflation, participated in many trials, wrote a volume of “proofs’ 
(Demomania, 1580), in which he insisted that witches should be burned alive instead of 
being “mercifully” strangled before being thrown to the flames, that they should be cau¬ 
terized so that their flesh should rot before death, and that children too be burned. 

Bodin was not an isolated case. I n this “century of geniuses” — Bacon, Kepler, 
Galileo, Shakespeare, Pascal, Descartes — a century that saw the triumph of the 
Copernican Revolution, the birth of modern science, and the development of 
philosophical and scientific rationalism, witchcraft became one of the favorite sub¬ 
jects of debate for the European intellectual elites. Judges, lawyers, statesm efl . 
philosophers, scientists, theologians all became preoccupied with the “problem/’ 
wrote pamphlets and demonologies, agreed that this was the most nefarious crime, 
and called for its punishment. 10 

There can be no doubt, then, that the witch-hunt was a major political initia tlve - 
To stress this point is not to minimize the role that the Church played in the persecu¬ 
tion. The Roman Catholic Church provided the metaphysical and ideological scaffold 
of the witch-hunt and instigated the persecution of witches as it had previously lflS0 ' 
gated the persecution of the heretics. Without the Inquisition, the many papal bulls urg 
ing the secular authorities to seek out and punish “witches” and, above all, without cen 
turies of the Church’s misogynous campaigns against women, the witch-hunt would 
have been possible. But, contrary to the stereotype, the witch-hunt was not just a P 10 
uct of popish fanaticism or of the machinations of the Roman Inquisition. At its P ea 1 

the secular courts conducted most of the trials, while in the areas where the Inquisiu 

x (icf 

operated (Italy and Spain) the number of executions remained comparatively loW.^ 


168 


i 


I 


. e p r otestant Reformation, which undermined the Catholic Church’s power, the 
isition even began to restrain the zeal of the authorities against witches, while inten¬ 
ding its persecution of Jews (Milano 1963:2 87-9). 11 Moreover, the Inquisition always 
j 0 ended on the cooperation of the state to carry out the executions, as the clergy 
jilted to be spared the embarrassment of shedding blood. The collaboration between 
Church and state was even closer in the areas of the Reformation, where the State had 
Income the Church (as in England) or the Church had become the State (as in Geneva, 
and to a lesser extent, Scotland). Here one branch of power legislated and executed, and 
religious ideology openly revealed its political connotations. 

The political nature of the witch-hunt is further demonstrated by the fact that 
both Catholic and Protestant nations, at war against each other in every other respect, 
joined arms and shared arguments to persecute witches. Thus, it is no exaggeration to 
claim that the witch-hunt was the first unifying terrain in the politics of the new European nation¬ 
states, the frst example, after the schism brought about by the Reformation , of a European unifi¬ 
cation. for, crossing all boundaries, the witch-hunt spread from France and Italy to 
Germany, Switzerland, England, Scodand, and Sweden. 

What fears instigated such concerted policy of genocide? Why was so much vio¬ 
lence unleashed? And why were its primary targets women? 


| Devil Beliefs and Changes in the Mode of Production 

It must be immediately stated that, to this day, there are no sure answers to these ques¬ 
tions. A major obstacle in the way of an explanation has been the fact that the charges 
a^inst the witches are so grotesque and unbelievable as to be incommensurable with any 
motivation or crime. 12 How to account for the fact that for more than two centuries, in 
several European countries, hundreds of thousands of women were tried, tortured, burned 
alive or hanged, accused of having sold body and soul to the devil and, by magical means, 
murdered scores of children, sucked their blood, made potions with their flesh, caused the 
death of their neighbors, destroyed cattle and crops, raised storms, and performed many 
other abominations? (However, even today, some historians ask us to believe that the 
witch-hunt was quite reasonable in the context of the contemporary beliefstructure!) 

An added problem is that we do not have the viewpoint of the victims, for all that 
re *nams of their voices are the confessions styled by the inquisitors, usually obtained 
tinder torture, and no matter how well we listen — as Carlo Ginzburg (1991) has done 
— to what transpires of traditional folklore from between the cracks in the recorded 
confessions, we have no way of establishing their authenticity. Further, one cannot 
account for the extermination of the witches as simply a product of greed, as no reward 
comparable to the riches of the Americas could be obtained from the execution and the 
confiscation of the goods of women who in the majority were very poor. 1 ^ 

It is for these reasons that some historians, like Brian Levack, abstain from present- 
contenting themselves with identifying the preconditions for 

_ _nee,the shift in legal procedure from a private to a public accu- 

ty system that occurred in the late Middle Ages, the centralization of state-power, the 
P act of the Reformation and Counter-Reformation on social life (Levack 1987). 


^ any explanatory theory 
Witch-hiinr- fnr imfai 


169 


There is no need, however, for such agnosticism, nor do we have to decide wheth 
the witch hunters truly believed in the charges which they leveled against their vi<> ** 
or cynically used them as instruments of social repression. If we consider the histo ■ 
context in which the witch-hunt occurred, the gender and class of the accused, and^ff 
effects of the persecution, then we must conclude that witch-hunting in Europe was ° 
attack on womens resistance to the spread of capitalist relations and the power th ' 
women had gained by virtue of their sexuality, their control over reproduction, an( j 
ability to heaL 

Witch hunting was also instrumented to the construction of a new patriarchal orde r 
where women’s bodies, their labor, their sexual and reproductive powers were placed 
under the control of the state and transformed into economic resources.This means that 
die witch hunters were less interested in the punishment of any specific transgressions 
than in the elimination of generalized forms of female behavior which they no longe r 
tolerated and had to be made abominable in the eyes of the population. That the charges 
in the trials of ten referred to events diat had occurred decades earlier, that witchcraft was 
made a crimen exceptum , that is, a crime to be investigated by special means, torture 
included, and it was punishable even in the absence of any proven damage to persons and 
things — all these factors indicate that the target of die witch-hunt — (as it is often true 
with political repression in times of intense social change and conflict) — were not socially 
recognized crimes, but previously accepted practices and gioups of individuals that had 
to be eradicated from die community, through terror and criminalization. In this sense, 
the charge of witchcraft performed a function similar to that perfonned by “high trea¬ 
son” (which, significantly, was introduced into the English legal code in the same years), 
and the charge of “terrorism” in our times. The very vagueness of the charge — the fact 
that it was impossible to prove it, while at the same time it evoked the maximum ofhor- 
ror — meant that it could be used to punish any form of protest and to generate suspi¬ 
cion even towards the most ordinary aspects of daily life. 

A first insight into the meaning of the European witch-hunt can be found in che 
thesis proposed by Michael Taussig, in his classic work The Devil and Commodity Fetishist** 
in South America (1980), where the author maintains that devil-beliefs arise in those his¬ 
torical periods when one mode of production is being supplanted by another. In such 
periods not only are the material conditions of life radically transformed, but so are the 
metaphysical underpinnings of the social order — for instance, the conception of how 
value is created, what generates life and growth, what is “natural” and what is antago¬ 
nistic to the established customs and social relations (Taussig 1980: 17ff). Taussig devel¬ 
oped his theory by studying the beliefs of Colombian agricultural laborers and Bolivian 
tin liners at a time when, in both countries, monetary relations were taking root that 
in peoples 1 eyes seemed deadly and even diabolical, compared with the older and sQ ^' 
surviving forms of subsistence-oriented production.Thus, in the cases Taussig studied, 11 
was the poor who suspected the better-off of devil worship. Still, his association between 
the devil and the commodity form reminds us that also in the background of the wltc 
hunt there was the expansion of rural capitalism, which involved the abolition of cUS 
tomary rights, and the first inflationary wave in modern Europe.These phenomena 
only led to the growth of poverty, hunger, and social dislocation (Le Roy Ladurie *9 ^ 
208), they also transf erred power into the hands of a new class of “modernizers 


170 



r 


^ed with ^ ear an< ^ repulsion at the communal forms of life that had been typical of 
^ ca pitali s t Europe. It was by the initiative of this proto-capitalist class that the witch- 
11 nt took off, both as “a platform on which a wide range of popular beliefs and prac- 
ces could be pursued” (Nonnand and Roberts 2000: 65), and a weapon by which 
instance to social and economic restructuring could be defeated. 

It is significant that, in England, most of the witch trials occurred in Essex, where 
by the 16 th century the bulk of the land had been enclosed, 14 while in those regions of 
British Isles where land privatization had neither occurred nor was on the agenda 
y# have no record of witch-hundng.The most outstanding examples in this context are 
Ireland and the Scottish Western Highlands, where no trace can be found of the perse¬ 
cution likely because a collective land-tenure system and kinship ties still prevailed in 
both areas that precluded the communal divisions and the type of complicity with the 
state that made a witch-hunt possible.Thus — while in the Anglicized and privatized 
Scottish Lowlands, where the subsistence economy was vanishing under the impact of 
the Presbyterian Reformation, the witch-hunt claimed at least 4,000 victims, the equiv¬ 
alent of one percent of the female population — in the Highlands and in Ireland, women 
were safe during the witch-burning times. 

That the spread of rural capitalism, with all its consequences (land expropriation, 
the deepening of social distances,the breakdown of collective relations) was a decisive fac¬ 
tor in the background of die witch-hunt is also proven by the fact that the majority of 
those accused were poor peasant women — cottars, wage laborers — while those who 
accused them were wealthy and prestigious members of the community, often their 
employers or landlords, that is, individuals who were part of die local power structures 
and often had close ties with the central state. Only as the persecution progressed, and die 
fear of witches (as well as the fear of being accused of witchcraft, or of “subversive asso¬ 
ciation”) was sowed among the population, did accusations also come from neighbors. In 
England, the witches were usually old women on public assistance or women who sur¬ 
vived by going from house to house begging for bits of food or a pot of wine or milk; 
if they were married, their husbands were day laborers, but more often they were wid¬ 
ows and lived alone. Their poverty stands out in the confessions. It was in times of need 
that the Devil appeared to them, to assure them that from now on they “should never 
want,” although the money he would give them on such occasions would soon turn to 
ashes, a detail perhaps related to the experience of superinflation common at the time 
(Larner 1983: 95; Mandrou 1968: 77). As for the diabolical crimes of the witches, they 
appear to us as nodiing more than the class struggle played out at the village level: the 
evil eye,’ the curse of the beggar to whom an aim has been refused, the default on the 
Payment of rent, the demand for public assistance (Macfadane 1970:97; Thomas 1971: 
565; Kittredge 1929:163).The many ways in which the class struggle contributed to the 
taking Q f an English witch are shown by the charges against Margaret Harkett, and old 
of sixty-five hanged at Tyburn in 1585: 


She had picked a basket of pears in the neighbor’s field without per¬ 
mission. Asked to return them she flung them down in anger;since then 
no pears would grow in the field. Later William Goodwins servant 
denied her yeast, whereupon his brewing stand dried up. She was struck 




171 




A classic image of the English witch; old, decrepit, surroundered by her animals and 
her cronies, attd yet maintaining a dejiant posture . 

From Thi: Wont>erhjl Discoveries ofihe Witchcraf rs 
of Margaret avd Phillip Flowers, 1619 . 


by a baillif who had caught her taking wood from the master's ground; 
the bailJif went mad. A neighbor refused her a horse; all his horses died. 
Another paid her less for a pair of shoes than she liad asked; later he 
died. A gentleman told his servant to refuse her buttermilk; after which 
they were unable to make butter or cheese (Thomas 1971: 556). 


One find the same pattern in the case of the women who were “pre ented” to 
court at Chelmsford,Windsor and Osyth. Mother Waterhouse, hanged at Chelmsfoid in 
1566, was a “very poor woman,” described as begging for some cake or butter and “falling 
out” with many of her neighbor (Rosen 1969: 76-82). Elizabeth Stile, Mother Devell, 
Mother Margaret and Mother Dutton, executed at Windsor in 1579, were also poor wid¬ 
ows; Mother Margaret lived in the aim house, like their alleged leader Mother Seder, and 
all of them went around begging and presumably taking revenge when denied- 0^" 
83-91). On being refused some old yeast, Elizabeth Francis, one of the Chelnisfaid 
witches, cursed a neighbor who later developed a great pain in her head. Moth* r 
Staunton suspiciously murmured, going away, when denied yeast by a neighbor* u P°j* 
which the neighbor's child fell vehemently sick (ibid.: 96). Ursula Kemp, hanged at^ N > 


in 1582, made one Grace lame after being denied some cheese; she also caused a swell* ^ 
in the bottom of Agnes Letherdale's child after the latter denied her some scouring 5211 . 
Alice Newman plagued Johnson, the Collector for the poor, to death after he refi* 




172 





twelve pence; she also punished one Buder, who denied her a piece of meat (ibid.: 
t o) We find a similar pattern in Scotland, where the accused were also poor cottars, still 
h Iding on to a P iece °f land of d^ir own, but barely surviving and often arousing the 
fiostihcy of their neighbors on account of having pushed their cattle to graze on their 
land or not having paid the rent (Larner 1983). 


| Witch Hunting and Claas Revolt 

we can see from these cases, the witch-hunt grew in a social environment where 
lijg ‘'better sorts” were living in constant fear of the “lower classes,” who could cer¬ 
tainly be expected to harbor evil thoughts because in this period they were losing 
everything they had. 

That this fear expressed itself as an attack on popular magic is not surprising. The 
battle against magic has always accompanied the development of capitalism, to this very 
day. Magic is premised on the belief that the world is animated, unpredictable, and that 
there is a force in all things:“water, trees, substances, words.(Wilson, 2000: xvii) so 
that every event is interpreted as the expression of an occult power that must be deci¬ 
phered and bent to one's will. What this implied in everyday life is described, probably 
with some exaggeration, in the letter of a German minister sent after a pastoral visit to 
a village in 1594: 

The use of incantations is so widespread that there is no man or 
woman here who begins or does anything... without first taking 
recourse to some sign, incantation, magic or pagan means. For exam¬ 
ple during labor pains, when picking up or putting down the child... 
when taking the beasts to the field... when they have lost an object 
or failed to find it...closing the windows at night, when someone gets 
ill or a cow behaves in a strange way they run at once to the sooth¬ 
sayer to ask who robbed them, who’s enchanted them or to get an 
amulet.The daily experience of these people shows there is no limit 
to the use of superstitions... Everyone here takes part in superstitious 
practices, with words, names, rhymes, using the names of God, of the 
Holy Trinity, of the Virgin Mary, of the twelve Apostles.... These words 
are uttered both openly and in secret; they are written on pieces of 
paper, swallowed, carried as amulets. They also make strange signs, 
noises and gestures. And then they practice magic with herbs, roots, 
and the branches of a certain tree; they have their particular day and 
place for all these things (Strauss 1975: 21). 

As Stephen Wilson points out in The Magical Universe (2000), the people who prac- 
** Ce d these rituals were mostly poor people who struggled to survive, always trying to 
** Ve off disaster and wishing therefore “to placate, cajole, and even manipulate these con- 
^Uing forces... to keep away harm and evil, and to procure the good which consisted 
[ well-being, health, and life” (p. xviii). But in the eyes of the new capitalist class, 


173 


this anarchic, molecular conception of the diffusion of power in the world was anat^ 
ema. Aiming at controlling nature, the capitalist organization of work must refuse txl 
unpredictability implicit in the practice of magic, and the possibility of establi s hi n ** 
privileged relation with the natural elements, as well as the belief in the existence of 
ers available only to particular individuals, and thus not easily generalized and exploitable' 
Magic was also an obstacle to the rationalizaion of the work process, and a threat to th 
establishment of the principle of individual responsibility. Above all, magic seemed a f 0r 
ofrefiisal of work, ofinsuboidination,and an instrument ofgrassroots resistance to pow e r 
The world had to be “disenchanted” in order to be dominated. 

By the 16* century, the attack against magic was well under way and worn cn 
were its most likely targets. Even when they were not expert sorcerers/magicians, they 
were the ones who were called to mark animals when they fell sick, heal their neigh 
bors, help them find lost or stolen objects, give them amulets or love potions, help 
them forecast the future. Though the witch-hunt targeted a broad variety of female 
practices, it was above all in this capacity — as sorcerers, healers, performers of incan- 
tations and divinations — that women were persecuted. 15 For their claim to magical 
power undermined the power of the authorities and the state, giving confidence to 
the poor in their ability to manipulate the natural and social environment and possi¬ 
bly subvert the constituted order. 

It is doubtful, on the other hand, that the magical arts that women had practiced 
for generations would have been magnified into a demonic conspiracy had they not 
occurred against a background of an intense social crisis and stuggle. The coincidence 
between social-economic crisis and witch-hunting has been noted by Henry Kamen, 
who has observed that it was “precisely in the period when there was the main price 
hike (between the end of the 16 th century and the first half of the 17 th ) [that] there were 
the greatest number of charges and persecutions”(Kamen 1972: 249). 16 

Even more significant is the coincidence between the intensification of the per¬ 
secution and the explosion of urban and rural revolte. These were the “peasant wars” 
against land privatization, including the uprisings against the “enclosures” in England (in 
1549,1607,1628,1631), when hundreds of men, women and children,armed with pitch- 
forks and spades, set about destroying the fences erected around the commons, P ro ' 
claiming that “from now on we needn’t work any more” In France, in 1593 - 1595 , there 
was the revolt of the Cioquants against the tithes, excessive taxation, and the rising P r i ce 
of bread, a phenomenon that caused mass starvation in large areas of Europe. 

During these revolts, it was often women who initiated and led the action* 
Exemplary were the revolt that occurred at Montpellier in 1645, which was started by 
women who were seeking to protect their children from starvation, and the revolt at 
Cordoba in 1652 that likewise was initiated by women. It was women, moreover, NV h° 
(after the revolts were crushed, with many men imprisoned or slaughtered) remained 
carry on the resistance, although in a more subterranean manner.This is what may h aVC! 
happened in Southwestern Germany, where a witch-hunt followed by two decades 
end of die Peasant War. Writing on the subject, Erik Midelf ort has excluded the eXjS ' 
tence of a connection between these two phenomena (Midelfort 1972: 68). Howe^ r * 
he has not asked if there were family or community relations, such as the ones Le 1^°^ 
Ladurie found in the Cevennes, 17 between the thousands of peasants who, from H76 1 


_ NAMUR 



M 


/u 


/l 

A 


v 'lns '» «> ™ ™ !•« MO -20 -JO •» 

Tin's graph, indicating the dynamics of the notch trials between 1505 and 
1650, refers specifically to the area of Namur and Usrmine in France, but „ ts 
representative of the persecution in other European countries. Everywhere, the 
key decades were those from the 1550s to the 1630s, when the prtce of food 
| t Minted. (From Henry Kmtn, 1972 J 


S 





I 


1525, continuously rose up in arms against feudal power and were so brutally defeated 
and the scores of women who, less than two decades later, in die same region and vil 
lages, were brought to the stake. Yet, we can well imagine that the ferocious work 0 f 
repression which the German princes conducted, and the hundreds and thousands 0 f 
peasants crucified, decapitated, burned alive, sedimented unquenchable hatreds, secret 
plans of revenge, above all among older women, who had seen and remembered, a n d 
were Likely to make their hostility known in numerous ways to die local elites. 

The persecution of witches grew on this terrain. It was class war carried out by 
other means. In this context, we cannot fail to see a connection between the fear of up r i s „ 
ing and the prosecutors’ insistence on the Witches Sabbat, or Synagogue, 18 the famous 
nocturnal reunion where thousands of people presumably congregated, travelling 0 f tej) 
from far distant places. Whether or not, by evoking the horrors of the Sabbat, the author¬ 
ities targeted actual forms of organization, cannot be established. But there is no doubt 
that, through the judges’obsession with these devilish gatherings, besides the echo of the 
persecution of the Jews, we hear the echo of the secret meetings the peasants held at 
night, on lonesome hills and in the forests, to plot their revolts. 19 The Italian historian 
Luisa Muraro has written on this matter, in La Signora del Gioco (The Lady of the 
Game)( 1977), a study of witch trials that took place in the Italian Alps at the beginning 
of the 16 th century: 

During the trials in Val di Fiemme one of the accused spontaneously 
told the judges that one night, while she was in the mountains with 
her mother in law, she saw a great fire in the distance. “Run away, run 
away,” her grand-mother had cried,“this is the fire of the Lady of the 
game.” ‘Game’(g/oco) in many dialects of Northern Italy is the oldest 
name for the Sabbat (in the trials ofVal di Fienune there is still men¬ 
tion of a female figure who directed the game).... In the same region 
in 1525 there was a vast peasant uprising. They demanded the elimi¬ 
nation of tithes and tributes, the freedom to hunt, less convents, hos¬ 
tels for the poor, the right of each village to elect its priest....They 
burned castles, convents and the clergy’s houses. But they were 
defeated, massacred, and those who survived for years were hunted by 
the revenge of the authorities. 

Muraro concludes: 

The fire of the lady of the game fades in the distance, while in the 
foreground there are the fires of the revolt and the pyres of the repres¬ 
sion.... But to us there seems to be a connection between the peas¬ 
ant revolt that was being prepared and the tales of mysterious nightly 
gatherings....We can only assume that the peasants at night secretly 
met around a fire to warm up and to communicate with each other... 
and that those who knew guarded the secret of these forbidden meet¬ 
ings, by appealing to the old legend.... If the witches had secrets this 
may have been one (Muraio 1977: 46-47). 


176 


Class revolt, together with sexual transgression, was a central element in the 
descriptions of the Sabbat, which was portrayed both as a monstrous sexual orgy and as 
subversive political gathering, culminating with an account of the crimes which the 
2 rticipants had committed, and with the devil instructing the witches to rebel against 
masters. It is also significant that the pact between the witch and the Devil was 


their 


^ed conjuration like the pacts often made by slaves and workers in struggle (Dockes 1982: 
222 *Tigar and Levy 1977: 136), and that in the eyes of the prosecutors, the Devil rep¬ 
ented a promise of love, power, and riches for whose sake a person was willing to sell 
fief (or his) soul, that is, to infringe every natural and social law. 

The threat of cannibalism, a central theme in the morphology of the Sabbat, also 
jccalb. according to Henry Kamen, the morphology of the revolts, as rebel workers at 
times showed their contempt for those who sold their blood by threatening to eat 
them. 20 Kamen mentions what happened in the town of Romans (Dauphine, France), 
in the winter of 1580, when the peasants in revolt against the tithes, proclaimed that 
"before three days Christian flesh will be sold*’and, then, during the Carnival,“the rebels’ 
leader, dressed in a bear skin, ate delicacies which passed for Christian flesh” (Kamen 
1972: 334; Le Roy Ladurie 1981: 189, 216). Again, in Naples, in 1585, during a riot 
against the high cost of bread, the rebels mutilated the body of the magistrate responsi¬ 
ble for the price rise and offered pieces of his flesh for sale (Kamen 1972: 335). Kamen 
points out that eating human flesh symbolized a total inversion of social values, consis¬ 
tent with the image of the witch as the personification ofmoral perversion which is sug¬ 
gested by many of the rituals attributed to the practice of witchcraft: the mass celebrated 
backwards, the counter-clockwise dances. (Clark 1980; Kamen 1972). Indeed, the witch 
was the living symbol of “the world turned upside down,” a recurrent image in the lit¬ 
erature of the Middle Ages, tied to millenarian aspirations of subversion of the social 
order. 

The subversive, utopian dimension of the witches’ Sabbat is also stressed, from a 
different angle, by Luciano Farinetto who, in Streghe e Potere (1998), has insisted on the 
need to give a modern interpretation of this gathering, reading its transgressive features 
from the viewpoint of the developing capitalist discipline of work. Parinetto points out 
that the nocturnal dimension of the Sabbat was a violation of the contemporary capi¬ 
talist regularization of work-time, and a challenge to private property and sexual ortho¬ 
doxy, as the night shadows blurred the distinctions between the sexes and between “mine 
and thine.” Parinetto also argues that the flight, the travel , an important element in the 
eharges against the witches, should be interpreted as an attack on the mobility ofimmi- 
fcrantand itinerant workers, a new phenomenon, reflected in the fear of vagabonds, that 
jttuoh preoccupied the authorities in this period. Parinetto concludes that, viewed in its 
orical specificity, the nocturnal Sabbat appears as a demonization of the utopia 
in the rebellion against the masters and the break-down of sexual roles, and 
^presents a use of space and time contrary to the new capitalist work-discipline, 
cuti sense * there I s a continuity between the witch-hunt and the earlier perse- 

fcUi$° n °^ t ^ ie heretics which also punished specific forms of social subversion under the 
th c 6 °^ m P os hig religious ortodoxy. Significantly, the witch-hunt developed first in 
afeas w here the persecution of the heretics had been most intense (Southern France, 


177 



Waldensian heretics as represented in Johannes Ti tutor is, Tractatus CONTRA 
SECTUM Valdensium. The witch-hunt developed first in the areas where die P crse ' 
cution of the heretics had been most intense. In the early period in some areas of 
Switzerland, witches were cften referred to as “uuudois. ” 


178 





















, j ur a, Northern Italy). In some regions of Switzerland, in an early phase, witches 
^ called Herege ("heretic”) or Waudois ("Waldenses”) (Monter 1976: 22; Russell 
?g72’ 34^)- 21 F urt ^er, the heretics too were burned at the stake as traitors to the true 
^ygion, and they were accused of crimes that entered the decalogue of witchcraft: 
odoniy. infanticide, animal worship. In part, these were ritual charges that the Church 
^ a d always moved against rival religions. But, as we have seen, a sexual revolution had 
^en an essential ingredient of the heretic movement, from the Cathars to the Adamites. 

Cathars, in particular, had challenged the Church’s degraded view of women and 
advocated the rejection of marriage and even of procreation, which they considered a 
form of entrapment for the soul. They had also embraced a Manichean religion that, 
according to some historians, was responsible for the increased preoccupation of the 
Church in the late Middle Ages with the presence of the Devil in the world and the 
Inquisitorial view of witchcraft as a counter-church. Thus, the continuity between 
heresy and witchcraft, at least in the first phase of the witch-hunt, cannot be doubted. 
But the witch-hunt occurred in a different historical context, one that had been dra¬ 
matically transformed, first by the traumas and dislocations produced by the Black Death 
— a watershed in European history — and later, in the 15 th and 16 th centuries, by the 
profound change in class relations brought about by the capitalist reorganization of eco¬ 
nomic and social life. Inevitably, then, even the apparent elements of continuity (e.g. the 
nocturnal promiscuous banquet) had a different meaning than their anticipations in the 
Church’s struggle against the heretics. 


Witch-Hunting, Woman-Hunting, 
and the Accumulation of Labor 

The most important difference between heresy and witchcraft is that witchcraft was 
considered a female crime.This was especially true at the peak of the persecution, in 
the period between 1550 and 16 50. In an earlier phase, men had represented up to forty 
percent of the accused, and a smaller number continued to be prosecuted later, mostly 
drawn from the ranks of the vagabonds, beggars, itinerant laborers, as well as the gyp¬ 
sies and lower-class priests. By the 16 th century, moreover, the charge of devil worship 
had become a conunon theme in political and religious struggle; there was hardly a 
bishop or a politician who, in the heat of the moment, was not accused of being a witch. 
Protestants accused Catholics, especially the pope, of serving the devil; Luther himself 
Was accused of magic, and so were John Knox in Scotland, Jean Bodin in France, and 
niany others. Jews too were ritually accused of worshipping the devil, often being por- 
tra yed with horns and claws. But the outstanding fact is that more than eighty percent 
jFthose w ho were tried and executed in Europe in the 16 th and 17 th centuries for the 
CTuile witchcraft were women. In fact,more women were persecuted for witchcraft 
in this period than for any other crime, except, significantly, infanticide. 

That the witch was a woman was also stressed by the demonologists, who rejoiced 
* God had spared men from such a scourge. As Sigrid Brauner (1995) has noted, the 
^^nients used to justify this phenomenon changed. While the authors of the Malleus 
caruni explained that women were more prone to witchcraft because of their “insa- 


179 



tiable lust/* Martin Luther and humanist writers stressed women’s moral and mental 
weakness as the origin of this perversion. But all singled out women as evil beings. 

A further difference between the persecutions of the heretics and that of t}^ 
witches is that in the latter the charges of sexual perversion and infanticide had a c e n 
tral role, being accompanied by the virtual demonization of contraceptive practices. 

The association between contraception, abortion, and witchcraft first appeared i n 
the Bull of Innocent VIII (1484) which complained that 

by their incantations, spells, conjurations and other accursed supersti- 
tions and horrid charms, enormities and offenses, (witches) destroy the 
offspring of women.. ..They hinder men from generating and women 
from conceiving; whence neither husbands with their wives nor wives 
with their husbands can perform their sexual acts (Kors and Peters 
1972: 107-08). 

From then on, reproductive crimes featured prominently in the trials. By the l7ih 
century witches were accused of conspiring to destroy the generative power of humans 
and animals, of procuring abortions, and of belonging to an infanticidal sect devoted to 
killing children or offering them to the devil. In the popular imagination as well, the 
witch came to be associated with a lecherous old woman, hostile to new life, who fed 
upon infant flesh or used children’s bodies to make her magical potions — a stereotype 
later popularized by children’s books. 

Why such a change in the trajectory from heresy to witchcraft? Why, in other ivords, in the 
course of a century ; did the heretic become a woman, and why ivas religious and social transgression 
refocused as predominantly a reproductive crime? 

In the 1920s the English anthropologist Margaret Murray in The Witch-Cult in 
Western Europe (1921) proposed an explanation that has recently been revived by eco* 
feminists and practitioners of“Wicca.” Murray argued that witchcraft was an ancient 
matrifocal religion to which the Inquisition turned its attention after the defeat of heresy 
spurred by a new fear of doctrinal deviation. In other words, the women whom demo- 
nologisis prosecuted as witches were (according to this theory) practitioners of ancient 
fertility cults aiming to propitiate birth and reproduction — cults that had existed in the 
Mediterranean areas for thousands of years, but which the Church opposed as pagan rites 
and a challenge to its power. 22 The presence of midwives among the accused, the role 
that women played in the Middle Ages as community healers, the fact that until the 16 th 
century child-birth was considered a female “mystery,” all of these factors have been cited 
in support of this view. But this hypothesis cannot explain the timing of the witch-hunt, 
nor cell us why these fertility culls became so abominable in the eyes of the authorial 
as to call for the extermination of the women practicing the old religion. 

A different explanation is that the prominence of reproductive crimes in 
witch-trials was a consequence of the high infant mortality rates that were typical in 
the 16th and 17th centuries due to the growth of poverty and malnutrition. 
it is argued, were blamed for the fact that so many children died, died so suddenly. ^ 
shortly after birth, or were vulnerable to a broad array of ailments. But this expl al11 * 
tion too does not go far enough. It does not account for the fact that women lab e l 


180 


Witches cooking children. From Francesco Maria 
CUOZZO’S COMPENDIUM XfALEFICARVM, 1608. 


as witches were also accused of preventing conception, and it fails to place the witch¬ 
hunt in the context of 16th-century economic and institutional policy.Thus, it misses 
the significant connection between the attack on witches and the development of a 
new concern, among European statists and economists, with the question of repro¬ 
duction and population size, the rubric under which the question of the size of the 
work-force was discussed at the time. As we have seen earlier, the labor question 
became especially urgent in the 17 th century, when population in Europe began again 
to decline, raising the spectre of a demographic collapse similar to that which had 
occurred in the American colonies in the decades after the Conquest. Against this 
ack ground, it seems plausible that the witch-hunt was, at least in part, an attempt to 
j’ ruil hialize birth control and place the female body, the uterus, at the service of popu- 
°n increase and the production and accumulation of labor-power. 

This is a hypothesis; what is certain is that the witch-hunt was promoted by a polit- 
lc *l class that was preoccupied with population decline and motivated by the conviction 
that a large population is the wealth of the nation. The fact that the 16th an( j 17 th C en- 
iuT^ Were heyday of Mercantilism, and saw the beginning of demographic record- 
(°f births, deaths and marriages), of census-taking, and the formalization of demog- 


181 



raphy itself as the first “state-science 1 'is a clear proof of the strategic importance that con 
trolling population movements was acquiring in the political circles that instigated 
witch-hunt (Cullen 1975:68)23. ^ 

We also know that many witches were midwives or “wise women,” 




The drama of infant mortal ilty is u^ell-captured by this image 
from Harts Holbein the Younger's “The Dance of Death,” a 
series of forty-one designs first printed in France in 1538. 


182 




1 the depository of womens reproductive knowledge and control (Midelfort 1972:172). 
f he Malleus dedicated an entire chapter to them, arguing that they were worse than any 
0 ther woman, since they helped the mother destroy the fruit of her womb, a conspiracy 
made easier, they charged, by the exclusion of men from the rooms where women gave 
birth- 24 Observing that there was not a hut that did not board a midwife, the authors 
r ecoini nen ded that no woman should be allowed to practice tliis art, unless she first 
demonstrated to have been a “good Catholic "This recommendation did not go unheard. 
/\s we have seen, midwives were either recruited to police women — to check, for 
instance, that they did not hide their pregnancies or deliver children out of wedlock — 
or were marginalized. Both in France and England, starting from the end of the 16* cen¬ 
tury, few women were allowed to practice obstetrics, an activity that, until that time, had 
been their inviolable mystery.Then, by the beginning of the 17* century, the first male 
midwives began to appear and, within a century, obstetrics has come almost entirely 



Hitches offer children to the Devil. A woodcut from <j tract on the trial 
of Agnes Sampson, 1591. 



183 



under state control. According to Alice Clark: 

The continuous process by which women were supplanted by men in 
the profession is one example of the way in which they were excluded 
from all branches of professional work, through being denied the 
opportunity of obtaining an adequate professional training (Clark 
1968: 265). 

But interpreting the social decline of the midwife as a case of female de-profes¬ 
sionalization misses its significance.There is convincing evidence, in fact, that midwives 
were marginalized because they were not trusted, and because their exclusion from the 
profession undermined women’s control over reproduction. 25 

Just as the Enclosures expropriated the peasantry from the communal land, so the witch4m nt 
expropriated u\nnen from their bodies, which were thus “liberated**from any impediment preventing 
them to function as machines for the production of labor. For the threat if the stake erected more for¬ 
midable barriers around women's bodies than were ever erected by the fencing off of the commons. 

We can, in fact, imagine what effect it had on women to see their neighbors, friends 
and relatives being burned at the stake, and realize that any contraceptive initiative on 
their side might be construed as the product of a demonic perversion. 26 Seeking to 
understand what the women hunted as witches and the other women in their commu¬ 
nity must have thought, felt, and concluded from this horrendous attack waged upon 
them — looking, in other words, at the persecution “from within,” as Anne L. Barstow 
has done in her Witchcraze (1994) — also enables us to avoid speculating on the inten¬ 
tions of the persecutors, and concentrate instead on the effects of the witch-hunt on the 
social position of women. From this point of view, there can be no doubt that the witch¬ 
hunt destroyed the methods that women had used to control procreation, by indicting 
them as diabolical devices, and institutionalized the state’s control over the female body, 
the precondition for its subordination to the reproduction of labor-power. 

But the witch was not only the midwife, the woman who avoided maternity, or 
the beggar who eked out a living by stealing some wood or butter from her neighbors. 
She was also the loose, promiscuous woman — the prostitute or adulteress, and gener¬ 
ally, the woman who exercised her sexuality outside the bonds of marriage and procre¬ 
ation. Thus, in the witchcraft trials, “ill repute” was evidence of guilt.The witch was also 
the rebel woman who talked back, argued, swore, and did not cry under torture. ’‘Rebel 
here refers not necessarily to any specific subversive activity in which women might be 
involved. Rather, it describes the female personality that had developed, especially among 
the peasantry, in the course of the struggle against feudal power, when women had been 
in the forefront of the heretical movements, often organizing in female associations, p 05 * 
ing a growing challenge to male authority and the Church. Descriptions of witches 
remind us of women as they were represented in the medieval morality plays a n ^ ^ ie 
fabliaux: ready to take initiatives, as aggressive and lusty as men, wearing male clothes* ° r 
proudly riding on their husbands’ backs, holding a whip. 

Certainly, among those indicted there were women suspected of specific cfii lie * 
One was accused of poisoning her husband, another of causing the death of her em ^ 0 ^ t 
another again of having prostituted her daughter (Le Roy Ladurie 1974: 203-4)4)- 



I 



/// the market of Guernsey*, England, three women are burnt alive. 
Anonymous engraving, \ 6 th century. 


it was not only die deviant woman, but the woman as such , particularly the woman of the 
lower classes , that, was put on trial , a woman who generated so much fear that in her case 
the relation between education and punishment was turned upside down. “We must/' 
Jean Bodin declared, “spread terror among some by punishing many.” And indeed, in 
some villages few were spared. 

Also the sexual sadism displayed by the tortures to which the accused were sub¬ 
jected reveals a misogyny that has no parallel in history, and cannot be accounted for on 
basis of any specific crime. According to the standard procedure, the accused were 
^pped naked and completely shaved (it was argued that the devil hid among their hair); 
tittn they were pricked with long needles all over their bodies, including their vaginas, in 
fcarch for the mark with wliich the devil presumably branded his creatures (just as the 
niters in England did with runaway slaves). Often they were raped; it was investigated 
whether or not they were virgins — a sign of innocence; and if they did not confess, they 
Were Emitted to even more atrocious ordeals: their limbs were torn, they were seated 
j**° n chairs under which fires were lit; their bones were crushed. And when they were 
° r burnt, care was taken so that the lesson to be drawn from their end would not 
^Unheeded. The execution was an important public event, which all the members of 
COm inunity had to attend, including the children of the witches, especially their 



18 S 



daughters who, in some cases, would be wliipped in front of the stake on which th 
could see their mother burning alive. le V 

The witch-hunt, then, was a war against women; it was a concerted attem 
degrade them, demonize them, and destroy their social power. At the same time, it w { 
the torture chambers and on the stakes on which the witches perished that the bou \ n 
ideals of womanhood and domesticity were forged. 

In this case, too, the witch-hunt amplified contemporary social trends.There i s 
fact, an unmistakable continuity between the practices targeted by the witch-hunt ai ^ 
those banned by the new legislation that in the same years was introduced to regul at 
family life, gender and property relations. Across western Europe, as the witch-hunt 
progressing, laws were passed that punished the adulteress with death (in England and 
Scotland by the stake, as in die case of High Treason). At die same time prostitution 
outlawed and so was birth out of wedlock, while infanticide was made a capital crime 27 
Simultaneously, female friendships became an object of suspicion, denounced fr om ^ 
pulpit as subversive of the alliance between husband and wife, just as women-to-vvonien 
relations were demonized by the prosecutors of the witches who forced them to 
denounce each other as accomplices in crime. It was also in this period that the word 
4 ‘gossip,” which in the Middle Ages had meant “f riend,” changed its meaning, acquiring 
a derogatory connotation, a further sign of the degree to which the power of women 
and communal ties were undermined. 

Also at the ideological level, there is a close correspondence between the degraded 
image of women forged by the demonologisis and the image of femininity constructed 
by the contemporary debates on the “nature of the sexes ,” 28 which canonized a stereo¬ 
typical woman, weak in body and mind and biologically prone to evil, that eff ectively 
served to justify male control over women and the new patriarchal order. 


Witch-Hunting and Male Supremacy: 
The Taming- of Women 


The sexual politics of the witch-hunt is revealed by the relation between the witch 
and the devil, which is one of the novelties introduced by the 16 th and 17^-century 
trials. The Great Witch-Hunt marked a change in the image of the devil compaitd 
with that to be found in the medieval lives of the saints or in the books of 
Renaissance magicians. In the former, the devil was portrayed as an evil being, 
one who had little power — a sprinkling of holy water and a few holy words were 
usually sufficient to defeat his schemes. His image was that of an unsuccessful dl' 
doer who, far from inspiring horror, was credited with some virtues. The medieval 
devil was a logician, competent in legal matters, sometimes represented in the act 
defending his case in front of a court oflaw (Seligman 1948:151—58) 29 He was ^ s0 
a skillful worker who could be used to dig mines or build city walls, although NV3S 
routinely cheated when the time came for his recompense. Also, the Renaissai^ 
view of the relationship between the devil and the magician always portrayed 
devil as subordinate being called to task, willing or not, like a servant, and made 1 
perform according to his master's will. ^ j t 

The witch-hunt reversed the power relation between the devil and the wltc 


186 


77 ic devil carries awtiy the soul of a woman who served him. 
Woodcut from Ohms Magnus, Historia db gbntibus 
sr.PTUNTKJONA Uisus (Rome, 1555). 


was the woman now who was the servant, the slave, the suaubus in body and soul, while 
the Devil functioned as her owner and master, pimp and husband at once. It was the 
Devil, for instance, who “approached the intended witch. She rarely conjured him up” 
(Larner 1983: 148). After revealing himself to her, he would ask her to become his ser¬ 
vant, and what would follow then would be a classic example of a master/slave, hus¬ 
band/wife relation. He stamped her with his mark, had sexual intercourse with her and, 
in some instances, he even changed her name (Larner 1983: 148). Moreover, in a clear 
P^-figuration of womens matrimonial destiny, the witch-hunt introduced one single 
Devil, in the place of the multitude of devils to be found in the medieval and Renaissance 
Wor ld, and a masculine Devil at that , in contrast with the female figures (Diana, Hera, “/a 
del zogo "), whose cults were spread among women in the Middle Ages, in both 
Mediterranean and Teutonic regions. 

How preoccupied were the witch hunters with the affirmation of male supremacy 
be seen from the fact that, even when in revolt against human and divine law, women 
to be portrayed as subservient to a man, and the culmination of their rebellion — 
^famous pact with the devil — had to be represented as a perverted marriage con- 
P^ The marital analogy was carried so far that the witches would confess that they “did 


187 















not dare to disobey the devil / 1 or, more curiously, that they did not find any pleasure * 
their copulations with him — a contradiction with respect to the ideology of the witch* 
hunt which derived witchcraft from women’s insatiable lust. 


Not only did the witch-hunt sanctify male supremacy, it also instigated men 
fear women, and even to look at them as the destroyers of the male sex. Women the 
authors of the Malleus MalefJcarum preached, are lovely to look at but contamina*ng t 
the touch; they attract men, but only to undermine them; they do everything to pi eas 
them, but the pleasure they give is more bitter than death, for their vices cost men th 
loss of their souls — and perhaps their sexual organs (Kors and Peters 1972: 1 14 , j 
A witch, presumably, could castrate men or make them impotent, either by freezing their 
generative forces or causing their penis to come out and draw back as she wished 30 
Some stole male penises, which they hid in great numbers in bird nests or boxes, until 
under duress, they were forced to return them to their owners . 31 

But who were these witches who castrated men or made them impotent? 
Potentially, every woman. In a village or small town of a few thousand people, where at 
the peak of the witch-hunt dozens of women were burned in the space of a few years 
or even a few weeks, no man could feel safe and be sure that he did not live with a witch. 



Women fly on their brooms to the Sabbat after applying unguents to their bodies- 
16‘i'-a'niury Fretwh print from Thomas Enistus’s Dialogues touchaW IT 
POVVOtR DES SORCri-RES (1570) 


188 




^| afl y must have been terrified upon hearing that at night some women left the mar- 
jjage bed to travel to the Sabbat, fooling their sleeping husbands by putting a stick next 
ip them; or hearing that women had the power to make their penises disappear, like the 
^jtch mentioned in the Malleus, who had stored dozens in a tree. 

That this propaganda successfully divided women from men is suggested by die 
fact that, despite individual attempts by sons, husbands, or fathers to save their female rel- 
ad ves fr° m sta ^ e » w hh one exception, we have no record of any male organizations 
0 posing the persecution. The exception is the case of the fishermen of the Basque 
jegion where the French Inquisitor Pierre Lancre was conducting mass trials that led to 
t he burning of perhaps as many as six hundred women. Mark Kurlansky reports that the 
fishermen had been been absent, engaged in the annual cod season. But, 


[when the men] of the St.-Jean-de-Luz cod fleet, one of the largest 
[from Basque country] heard rumors of their wives, mothers, and 
daughters [being] stripped, stabbed, and many already executed, the 
1609 cod campaign was ended two months early. The fishermen 
returned, clubs in hands, and liberated a convoy of witches being taken 
to the burning place.This one popular resistance was all it took to stop 
the trials... (Kurlansky 2001: 102) 


The intervention of the Basque fishermen against the persecution of their female 
relatives was a unique event. No other group or organization rose up in defense of the 
witches. We know, instead, that some men made a business of denouncing women, 
appointing themselves as “witch finders,” tiavelling from village to village threatening to 
expose women unless they paid up. Other men took advantage of the climate of suspi¬ 
cion surrounding women to free themselves from unwanted wives and lovers,or to blunt 
the revenge of women they had raped or seduced. Undoubtedly, mens failure to act 
against the atrocities to which women were subjected was often motivated by the fear 
of being implicated in the charges, as the majority of the men tried for this crime were 
relatives of suspected or convicted witches. But there is no doubt that years of propa¬ 
ganda and terror sowed among men the seeds of a deep psychological alienation from 
women, that broke class solidarity and undermined their own collective power. We can 
with Marvin Harris that, 


The witch-hunt... scattered and fragmented all the latent energies of 
protest. [It] has made everyone feel impotent and dependent upon the 
dominant social groups, and has furthermore given them a local out¬ 
let for their frustrations. By this it has prevented the poor, more than 
any other social group, from confronting ecclesiastical authority and 
the secular order,and making their claims within the redistribution of 
wealth and the leveling of social status (Harris 1974: 239-240). 

fc*)tir ^ USt 3S re P ress i n g women, the ruling classes more effectively repressed the 

e Proletariat. They instigated men who had been expropriated, pauperized, and 
n *lized to blame their personal misfortunes on the castrating witch, and to view 



the power that women had won against the authorities as a power women would Us 
against them. Ail the deep-seated fears that men harbored with regaid to women ( mo , 
because of the Church’s misogynous propaganda) were mobilized in this context. Y 
only were women accused of making men impotent; even their sexuality was turned 
into an object of fear, a dangerous, demonic force, as men were taught that a witch cou^ 
enslave them and chain them to her will (Kors and Peters 1972:130-32). 

A recurrent charge in the witch trials was that witches engaged in degenerate sexual 
practices, centering on copulation with the devil and participation in the otgies that 
sumably took place at the Sabbat. But witches were also accused of geneiating an excess^ 
erotic passion in men, so that it was an easy step for men caught in an illicit affair to claim 
they had been bewitched, or,for a family wanting to terminate a sons relation with a woman 
of whom they did not approve, to accuse the latter of being a witch. Wiote the Malleus • 


there are...seven methods by which [witches] infect ... the venereal 
act and the conception of the womb: First, by inclining the minds of 



The Devil seduces a woman 
into making a pail with him. 
From Ulrich Molitor, Dn 
Lamies (1489) 


190 









men to inordinate passion; Second, by obstructing their generative 
force; Third, by removing the member accomodated to that act; 
Fourth, by changing men into beasts by their magic art; Fifth, by 
destroying the generative force in women; Sixth, by procuring abor¬ 
tion; Seventh, by offering children to the devil... (1971:47). 


ingan 

paff 


That witches were accused simultaneously of rendering men impotent and arous- 
excessive sexual passion in them is only apparently a contradiction. In the new 


iarchal code that was developing in concomitance with the witch-hunt, physical 
•ppotence was the counterpart of moral impotence; it was the physical manifestation of 
the erosion of male authority over women, since “functionally” there would be no dif¬ 
ference between a man who was castrated and one who was helplessly in love.The demo- 
nologists looked with suspicion at both states, clearly convinced that it would be impos¬ 
sible to realize the type of family the contemporary bourgeois wisdom demanded — 
modeled on the state, with the husband as the king, and the wife subordinate to his will, 
selflessly devoted to the management of the household (Schochet 1975) — if women 
with their glamour 2 nd love filters could exercise so much power as to make men the suc- 
cubi of their desires. 

Sexual passion undermined not only male authority over women — as Montaigne 
lamented, man can preserve his decor in everything except in the sexual act (Easlea 1980: 
243) — it also undermined a mans capacity for self-government, causing him to lose 
that precious head wherein Cartesian philosophy was to locate the source of Reason. A 
sexually active woman, then, was a public danger, a threat to the social order as she sub¬ 
verted a mans sense of responsibility, and his capacity for work and self-control. If women 
were not to ruin men morally — or more important, financially — female sexuality had 
to be exorcised. This was accomplished by means of torture, death by fire, as well as the 
meticulous interrogations to which witches were subjected, which were a mixture of 
sexual exorcism and psychological rape. 32 

For women, then, the 16 th and 17 th centuries did inaugurate an age of sexual repres¬ 
sion. Censorship and prohibition did come to define their relationship with sexuality. With 
Michel Foucault in mind, we must also insist that it was not the Catholic pastoral, nor the 
confession, that best demonstrate how “Power,” at the dawn of the modern era, made it 
compulsory for people to speak of sex (Foucault 1978:116) .The “discursive explosion” on 
sex,that Foucault detected in this time, was in no place more powerfully exhibited than in 
flic torture chambers of the witch-hunt. But it had nothing in common with the mutual 
^filiation that Foucault imagines flowing between the woman and her confessor. Far out- 
s(ri pping any village priest, the inquisitors forced the witches to reveal their sexual adven- 
^ every detail, undeterred by the fact that they were often old women and their sex- 
txploits dated back many decades. In an almost ritual manner, they forced the alleged 
itches to explain how in their youth they were first taken by the devil, what they had felt 
P° n penetration, the impure though* they had harbored. But the stage upon which this 
discourse on sex unfolded was the torture chamber* and the questions were asked 
. ee n applications of the strappado , to women driven mad by pain, and by no stretch of 

^ ©nation can we presume that the orgy of words the women thus tortured were forced 
Utter i nc ited their pleasure or re-oriented, by linguistic sublimation, their desire. In the 


191 




case of the witch-hunt — which Foucault surprisingly ignores in his History of Sexual 
(Vol. 1, 1978) — the “interminable discourse on sex” was not deployed as an alternatiy 
to, but in the service of repression, censorship, denial. Certainly we can say that the I ail 
guage of the witch-hunt “produced” the Woman as a different species, a being suisgetieri' 
more carnal and perverted by nature. We can also say that the production of the “femal e 

pervert” was a step in the transformation of the female vis erotica into vis lavorativa _ 

is, a first step in the transformation offemale sexuality into work . But we should appreciate the 
destructive character of this process, which also demonstrates the limits of a general 
tory of sexuality” of the type Foucault has proposed, which treats sexuality from the p er 
spective of an undifferentiated, gender-neutral subject, and as an activity presumably car¬ 
rying the same consequences for men and women. 


The Witch-Hunt and the Capitalist 
Rationalisation of Sexuality 

The witch-hunt did not result in new sexual capacities or sublimated pleasures for 
women. Instead, it was the first step in the long march towards “clean sex between clean 
sheets” and the transformation of female sexual activity into work, a service to men, and 
procreation. Central to this process was the banning, as anti-social and virtually demonic, 
of all non-productive, non-procreative forms of female sexuality. 

The repulsion that non-procreative sexuality was beginning to inspire is well 
captured by the myth of the old witch flying on her broom, which, like the animals she 
also rode upon (goats, mares, dogs), was the projection of an extended penis, symbol of 
an unbridled lust. This imagery betrays a new sexual discipline that denied the “old and 
ugly” woman, no longer fertile, the right to a sexual life. In the creation of this stereo¬ 
type the demonologists conformed to the moral sensibility of their time, as illustrated by 
the words of two illustrious contemporaries of the witch-hunt; 

To see an old lecher, what more odious? What can be more absurd? 

And yet so common_Worse it is in women than in men_Whilst 

she is an old crone, a beldam, she can neither see nor hear, a mere car¬ 
cass, she caterwauls and must have a stallion (Burton 1977: 56). 

Yet it is even more fun to see the old women who can scarcely carry 
their weight of years and look like corpses that seem to have risen 
from the dead. They still go around saying “life is good,” still in heat, 
looking for a mate.. .they are forever smearing their faces with make 
up and taking tweezers to their pubic hair, exposing their sagging, 
withered breasts and trying to rouse failing desire with their quavery 
winning voices, while they drink, dance among girls and scribble their 
love letters (Erasmus 1941: 42). 

This was a far cry from the world of Chaucer, where the Wife of Bath, after bury" 
ing five husbands, could still openly declare:“Welcome the sixth.... I don't mean tob* 


j 


192 






A dispute between a witch iuid an 
Inquisitor: H t ms Bur kin air (before 
1514). 

Many women accused and tried for 
witchcra ft were old and poor. Often 
they depended ou public charity for 
their survival . Witchcraft — we 
are told — is the weapon of the 
powerless. But old women were 
also those in the community most 
likely to resist the destruction of 
communal relations mused by the 
spreiid of atpitalist relations. 77 ley 
wire the ones who embodied the 
community's knowledge and mem¬ 
ory. The witch-hunt turned the 
image of the old woman upside 
down: traditionally considered a 
wise woman, she becrne a symbol 
of sterility and hostility to li fe. 




193 




























t 


chaste at all cost. When a spouse of mine is gone, another Christian man shall take ^ 
on” (Chaucer 1977:277). In the world of Chaucer, the sexual vitality of the old Worn^ 
was an affirmation of life against death; in the iconography of the witch-hunt, Q ld ^ 
precludes in women the possibility of a sexual life, contaminates it, turns sexual activity 
into a tool of death rather than a means of regeneration. 

Regardless of age (but not class) in the witch trials, there is a constant identifi C ati 0n 
between female sexuality and bestiality. This was suggested by copulation with the UO;ir 
god (one of the representations of the devil), the infamous kiss sub cauda , and the charg e 
that the witches kept a variety of animals —“imps” or “familiars”— that helped the m i n 
their crimes and with whom they entertained a particularly intimate reladon.These were 
cats, dogs, hares, frogs, that the witch cared for, presumably suckling them from special teats 

Other animals, too, played a role in the witch’s life as instruments of the devil- 
goats, and (night)mares flew her to the Sabbat, toads provided her with poison for her 
concoctions. Such was the presence of animals in the witches’ world that one must pre¬ 
sume that they too were being put on trial. 33 

The marriage between the witch and her “familiars” was perhaps a reference to the 
“bestial” practices that characterized the sexual life of peasants in Europe, which remained 
a capital offense long after the end of the witch-hunt. In an era that was beginning to 
worship reason and to dissociate the human from the corporeal, animals, too, were sub¬ 
jected to a drastic devaluation — reduced to mere brutes, the ultimate “Other” — peren¬ 
nial symbol of the worst human instincts. No crime, then, would inspire more horror than 
copulation with a beast, a true atlack on the ontological foundations of a human nature 
increasingly identified with its most immaterial aspects. But the surplus of animal pres¬ 
ences in the witches’lives also suggests that women were at a (slippery) crossroad between 
men and animals, and that not only female sexuality, but femininity as such, was akin to 
animality. To seal this equation, witches were often accused of shifting their shape and 
morphing into animals, while the most commonly cited familiar was the toad, which as 
a symbol of the vagina synthesized sexuality, bestiality, femininity, and evil. 

The witch-hunt condemned female sexuality as the source of every evil, but it was 
also the main vehicle for a broad restructuring of sexual life that, conforming with the new 
capitalist work-discipline, criminalized any sexual activity tliat threatened procreation, the 
transmission of property within the family, or took time and energies away from work 

The witch trials provide an instructive list of the forms of sexuality that were 
banned as “non-productive”: homosexuality, sex between young and old, 3 -* sex between 
people of diff erent classes, anal coitus, coitus from behind (reputedly leading to sterile 
relations), nudity, and dances. Also proscribed was the public, collective sexuality that had 
prevailed in the Middle Ages, as in the Spring festivals of pagan origins that, in the 16 th - 
century, were still celebrated all over Europe. Compare, in this context, the way in which 
P. Stubbes, in Anatomy of Abuse (IS 83), described the celebration of May Day in England* 
with the standard accounts of the Sabbat which charged that the witches always danc 
at these gatherings,jumping up and down at the sound of pipes and flutes, and indulge 
in much collective sex and merrymaking. 


194 





The execution of the Chelmsford witches in 1589, Jton fttntice, one of 
the victims, is shown with her families 


Towards May.. .every parish, town and village gets together,both men, 
women and children, old and young...they run to the bushes and 
woods, hills and mountains, where they spend all the night in pleas¬ 
ant pastirnes, and in the morning they return bringing home birch 
bows and branches of trees.. .(T)he chiefest jewel they bring home is 
their maypole, which they bring home with great veneration.. then 
they fall to banquet and feast, to leap and dance about it, as heathen 
people did at the dedication of their idols... (Partridge: III). 

^ An analogous comparison can be made between the descriptions of the Sabbat and 

e descriptions which Scottish Presbyterian authorities made of pilgrimages (to holy 
a nd other holy localities), which the Catholic Church had encouraged, but which 


195 



I 


the Presbyterians opposed as congregations of the devil and occasions for lewd affairs ^ 
a general tendency, throughout this period, any potentially transgressive meeting p e ^ 
ants'gatherings, rebel camps, festivals, and dances — was described by the authorities as 
virtual Sabbat.^ 

It is also significant that, in some areas of Northern Italy, going to the Sabbat was 
called “going to the dance" or “going to the game" (d zogo), particularly when one c on 
siders the campaign that Church and state were conducting against such pastimes 
(Muraro 1977:109ff;Hill 1964: 183ff).As Ginzburg points out,“once we remove [fr 0rn 
the Sabbat] the myths and the fantastic trappings, we discover a gathering of people 
accompanied by dances and sexual promiscuity" (Ginzburg 1966: 189), and, we must 
add, much eating and drinking, surely a fantasy at a time when hunger was a common 
experience in Europe. (How revealing concerning the nature of class relations at the tune 
of the witch-hunt, that dreams of roasted mutton and ale could be frowned upon by a 
well-fed, beef-eating bourgeoisie as signs of a diabolical connivance!) Ginzburg, how¬ 
ever, following a well-trodden path, labels the orgies associated with the Sabbat as “hal¬ 
lucinations of poor women, to whom they serve as a recompense for a squalid existence/' 




tjbid- : 190). In this wa Y’ he blames the victims for their demise; he also ignores that it was 
n ot the women accused of being witches, but Europe's elite who devoted reams of papers 
discussing such “hallucinations," debating, for instance, the roles o fsuccubi and incubi, 
or whether the witch could be impregnated by the Devil, a question that, apparently, 
vvas still of interest for intellectuals in the 18^ century (Couliano 1987:148—51).Today, 
these grotesque disquisitions are screened from the histories of “Western Civilization," 
or a re simply forgotten, although they wove a web that condenmed hundreds of thou- 
sands of women to death. 

Thus, the role that die witch-hunt has played in the development of the bour¬ 
geois world, and specifically in the development of the capitalist discipline of sexuality, 
jjas been erased from our memory. Yet, we can trace back to this process some of the 
jnain taboos of our time. This is the case with homosexuality, which in several parts of 
Europe was still fully accepted during the Renaissance, but was weeded out in the course 
of the witch-hunt. So fierce was the persecution of homosexuals that its memory is still 
sedimented in our language. “Faggot" reminds us that homosexuals were at times the 
kindling for the stakes upon wliich witches were burned, while the Italian fmocchio (fen¬ 
nel) refers to the practice of scattering these aromatic vegetables on the stakes in order 
to mask the stench of burning flesh. 

Of particular significance is the relation the witch-hunt established between the 
prostitute and the witch, reflecting the process of devaluation wliich prostitution under¬ 
went in the capitalist reorganization of sexual work. As the saying went, “a prostitute 
when young, a witch when old," for both used sex only to deceive and corrupt men, 
faking a love that was only mercenary (Stiefelmeir 1977: 48£F.). And both sold thetnselves 
in order to obtain money and an illicit power, the witch (who sold her soul to the Devil) 
being the magnified image of the prostitute (who sold her body to men). Furthermore, 
both the (old) witch and the prostitute were symbols of sterility, the very personification 
ofnon-procreative sexuality.Thus, while in the Middle Ages the prostitute and the witch 
were considered positive figures who peif ormed a social service for the community, with 
the witch-hunt both acquired the most negative connotations and were rejected as pos¬ 
sible female identities, physically by death and socially by criminalization. For the pros¬ 
titute died as a legal subject only after having died a thousand times on the stake as a 
witch. Or better, the prostitute would be allowed to survive (she would even become 
useful, although in a clandestine fashion) only as long as the witch would be killed; for 
the witch was the more socially dangerous subject, the one who (in the eyes of the 
inquisitors) was less controllable; it was she who could give pain orpleasure,heal or harm, 
stir up the elements and chain the will of men; she could even cause damage solely by 
her look, a malocchio (“evil eye") that presumably could kill. 

It was the sexual nature of her crimes and her lower-class status that distin¬ 
guished the witch from the Renaissance magician, who was largely immune from the 
Persecution. High Magic and witchcraft shared many elements. Themes derived from 
e learned magical tradition were introduced by the demonologists into the defini- 
*° n of witchcraft. Among them was the belief, of Neoplatonic origin, that Eros is a 
0s niic force, binding the universe through relations of “sympathy" and attraction 
Cna bling t he magician to manipulate and imitate nature in his experiments. A similar 
^ 0vver was attributed to the witch, who reputedly could raise storms by mimetically 


197 


stirring a puddle, or could exercise an “attraction” similar to the bonding of met a ls 
the alchemic tradition. (Yates 1964: 145ff; Couliano 1987).The ideology of witchcraft 
also reflected the biblical tenet, common to both magic and alchemy, that stipulates 
connection between sexuality and knowledge. The thesis that witches acquired th eir 
powers by copulating with the devil echoed the alchemic belief that women had 
appropriated the secrets of chemistry by copulating with rebel demons (Seligm^ 
1948:76). High Magic, however, was not persecuted, though alchemy was increasingly 
frowned upon, as it appeared an idle pursuit and, as such, a waste of time and resources 
The magicians were an elite, who often serviced princes and other highly positioned 
people (Couliano 1987:156ff), and the demonologists carefully distinguished between 
them and the witches, by including High Magic (particularly astrology and astronomy) 
in the range of the sciences. 36 

The witch-hunt and the New World 


The counterparts of the typical European witch, then, were not the Renaissance magi¬ 
cians, but the colonized native Americans and the enslaved Africans who, in the planta¬ 
tions of the “New World,” shared a destiny similar to that of women in Europe, provid¬ 
ing for capital the seemingly limitless supply of labor necessary for accumulation. 

So connected were the destinies of women in Europe and those of Amerindians 
and Africans in the colonies that their influences were reciprocal. Witch-hunting and 
charges of devil-worshipping were brought to the Americas to break the resistance of 
the local populations, justifying colonization and the slave trade in the eyes of the world. 
In turn, according to Luciano Parinetto, it was the American experience that persuaded 
the European authorities to believe in the existence of entire populations of witches, and 
instigated them to apply in Europe the same techniques of mass extermination devel¬ 
oped in America (Parinetto 1998). 

In Mexico, “[f]tx>m 1536 to 1543 the Bishop Zumarraga conducted 19 trials involv¬ 
ing 75 Indian heretics, mainly drawn from the political and religious leaders of central 
Mexican conununities, a number of whom ended their lives at the stake. The friar Diego 
de Landa led idolatry trials in the Yucatan during the 1560s, in which torture, whippings, 
and auto-defe figured prominently” (Behar 1987:51). Witch-hunts were conducted also in 
Peru, to destroy the cult of the local gods, considered demons by the Europeans. 
“Everywhere the Spaniards saw the face of the devil: in the foods... [in] the 4 primitive vices 
of the indians*... in their barbaric languages” (de Leon 1985 1:33-34). In the colonies,too. 
it was women who were more vulnerable to being accused of being witches, for. being 
held in special contempt by the Europeans as weak-minded females, they soon became 


staunchest defenders of their communities (Silverblatt 1980:173,176-79). 

The common fate of Europe’s witches and Europe’s colonial subjects is further 
demonstrated by the growing exchange, in the course of the 17‘ h century, between the id c 
witchcraft and the racist ideology that developed on the soil of the Conquest & 
The Devil was portrayed as a black man and black people were increasing 1 
that “devil worship and diabolical interventions [became] *h e 
pect of the non-European societies the slave traders encounte 



//is t’arrf/iY 'i/jraxM 


16th-century representation of Caribbean Indians its devils from Tobias George 
Smollett I compiler I, “A COMPENDIUM OE AUTHENTIC AND ENTERTAINING 
VOYAGES, DICES IE n IN A chronological SERIES... u (From Tobias Geo% 
Smollct, 1766.) 






(Barker 1978:91). ,t From Lapps to Samoyed,to the Hottentots and Indonesians.. .there ^ 
no society’' — Anthony Barker writes — ‘'which was not labeled by some Englishman 
actively under diabolical influence*’ (1978:91) Just as in Europe, the trademark ofdiabolis^ 
was an abnormal lust and sexual potency .37 The Devil was often portrayed as possessi 
two penises, while tales of brutish sexual practices and inordinate fondness for music 
dancing became staples in the reports of missionaries and travelers to the^NewXKfo,.^,, 
According to historian Brian Easlea, this systematic exaggeration of black sexual 
potency betrays the anxiety that white men of property felt towards their own sexu a L 
ity; presumably, white upper-class males feared the competition of the people they 
enslaved, whom they saw as closer to nature, because they felt sexually inadequate d Ue 
to excessive doses of self-control and prudential reasoning (Easlea 1980: 249-50). g Ut 


the oversexualization of women and black men — the witches and the devils - 


niust 


also be rooted in the position which they occupied in the international division oflabor 
that was emerging on the basis of the colonization of America, the slave trade, and the 
witch-hunt. For the definition of blackness and femaleness as marks of bestiality and irra¬ 
tionality conformed with the exclusion of women in Europe and women and men in 
the colonies from the social contract implicit in the wage, and the consequent natural¬ 
ization of their exploitation. 


The Witdh, the Healer and the Birth of 
Modern Science 

Other motives operated behind the persecution of witches. Charges of witchcraft often 
served to punish the attack on property, primarily thefts, which increased dramatically 
in the 16 th and 17 f F centuries, following the increasing privatization of land and agri- 
culture.As we have seen, in England, poor women who begged for or stole milk or wine 
from the houses of their neighbors, or were on public assistance, were likely to be sus¬ 
pected of practicing evil arts. Alan Macfarlane and Keith Thomas have shown that in this 
period there was a marked deterioration in the condition of old women, following the 
loss of the commons and the reorganization of family life, which gave priority to child- 
raising at the expense of the care previously provided to the elderly (Macfarlane 
1970:205). 38 These elders were now forced to rely on their friends or neighbors for their 
survival, or joined the Poor Rolls (at the very time when the new Protestant ethic 
beginning to finger alms-giving as a waste and an encouragement to sloth), and as the 
institutions that in the past had catered to the poor were breaking down. Some p°° r 
women presumably used the fear that their reputation as witches inspired to obtain what 
they needed. But it was not just the “bad witch,” who cursed and allegedly lamed cattle, 
ruined crops, or caused her employer’s children to die, that was condemned. The g°° 
witch,” who made sorcery her career, was also punished, often more severely. 

Historically, the witch was the village midwife, medic, soothsayer or sorce^’ 
whose privileged area of competence (as Burckhardt wrote concerning the 
witches), was amorous intrigue (Burckhardt 1927: 319-20). An urban embodin^ lU 
this type of witch was the Celestina, in the play by Fernando de Rojas (The Cek$ lltV * 
1499). Of her it was said that: 


200 



She had six trades, to wit: launderess, perfumer, a master hand at mak¬ 
ing cosmetics and replacing damaged maidenheads, procuress, and 
something of a witch.... Her first trade was a cover f or the rest and 
with this excuse many servant girls went to her house to do their 
washing... .You can’t imagine the traffic she carried on. She was a baby 
doctor; she picked up flax in one house and brought it to another, all 
this as an excuse to get in everywhere. One would say:“Mother, come 
here!” Or “Here comes the mistress!” Everyone knew her. And yet in 
spite of her many duties she found time t o g o t o Mass or Vesper” (Rojas 
1959:17-18). 

A more typical healer, however, was Gostanza, a woman tried as a witch in San 
^liniato,a small town ofToscana in 1594.After becoming a widow Gostanza had set her¬ 
self up as a professional healer, soon becoming well-known in the region for her thera¬ 
peutic remedies and exorcisms. She lived with her niece and two other women, widows 
as well. A next-door neighbor, also a widow,gave her the spices for her drugs. She received 
her ciiente in her home, but she also traveled wherever she was needed, to “mark” an ani¬ 
mal, visit a sick person, help people carry out a revenge or free themselves from the effects 
of medical charms (Cardini 1989: 51-58). Her tools were natural oils and powders, as 
well as devices apt to cure and protect by“sympathy”or“contact.” It was not in her inter¬ 
est to inspire fear in her community, as practicing her arts was her way of making a liv¬ 
ing. She was, in fact, very popular, everyone would go to her to be cured, to have his or 
her fortune told, to find missing objects or to buy love potions. But she did not escape 
persecution.After the Council ofTrento (1545-1563), the Counter-Reformation took 
a strong position against popular healers, fearing their power and deep roots in the cul¬ 
ture of their communties. In England as well, the fate of the “good witches” was sealed 
in 1604 when a statute passed by James I established the death penalty for anyone who 
used spirits and magic, even if they caused no visible harm. 39 

With the persecution of the folk healer, women were expropriated from a patri¬ 
mony of empirical knowledge, regarding herbs and healing remedies, that they had accu¬ 
mulated and transmitted from generation to generation, its loss paving the way for a new 
form of enclosure.Tliis was the rise of professional medicine, which erected in front of 
the“lower classes” a wall of unchallengeable scientific knowledge, unaffordable and alien, 
despite its curative pretenses (Ehrenreich and English 1973; Starhawk 1997). 

The displacement of the folk-healer/witch by the doctor raises the question of 
the role that the development of modern science and the scientific worldview played in 
the rise and fall of the witch-hunt. On this question we have two opposite viewpoints. 

On one side we have the theory descending from the Enlightenment, which cred- 
lts the advent of scientific rationalism as the key f actor in the termination of the perse- 
^tion.As formulated by Joseph Klaits (1985), this theory argues that the new science 
S^nsfor me d intellectual life, generating a new skepticism as “it revealed the universe as 
ase lf-reg u i a ting mechanism in which direct and constant divine intervention was unnec- 
lp ar y (p-162). However, Klaits admits that the same judges who by the 1650s were put- 


I 



Thh WtTCH's Hf.RBARY, engraving by Hans Weiditz (1532). 
As the starry globe suggests, the 'Virtue" of the herbs was 
strengthened by the proper astral conjunction . 


ting a break on witch trials never questioned the reality of witchcraft. “Neither in Fiance 
nor anywhere else did the seventeenth-century judges who put an end to witch-hunt¬ 
ing profess that there were no witches. Like Newton and other scientists of the time, 
judges continued to accept supernatural magic as theoretically plausible’ 1 (ibid.: 163). 

Indeed, there is no evidence that the new science had a liberating effect. The 
mechanistic view of Nature that came into existence with the rise of modern science 
“disenchanted the world.” But there is no evidence that those who promoted it ever 
spoke in defense of the women accused as witches. Descartes declared himself an agnos¬ 
tic on this matter; other mechanical philosophers (like Joseph Glanvil and Thomas 
Hobbes) strongly supported the witch-hunt. What ended the witch-hunt (as Bna n 
Easlea has convincingly shown) was the annihilation of the world of the witches and 
the imposition of the social discipline that the victorious capitalist system required. In 
other words, the witch-hunt came to an end, by the late 17* century, because the rul¬ 
ing class by this time enjoyed a growing sense of security concerning its power, not 
because a more enlightened view of the world had emerged. 

The question that remains is whether the rise of the modern scientific meth 
can be considered the cause of the witch-hunt. This view has been argued most f orce ~ 
fully by Carolyn Merchant in The Death of Nature (1980) which roote the persecution 
of the witches in the paradigm shift the scientific revolution, and particularly t ^ e 
of Cartesian mechanistic philosophy, provoked. According to Merchant, this s 


i 


202 


placed an organic worldview that had looked at nature, women, and the earth as nur- 
joring mothers, with a mechanical one that degraded them to the rank of “standing 
^sources," removing any ethical constraints to their exploitation (Merchant 
l 980 : 127 fi)*The wom an-as-witch. Merchant argues, was persecuted as the embodiment 
of the “wild side” of nature, of all that in nature seemed disorderly, uncontrollable, and 
thus antagonistic to the project undertaken by the new science. Merchant finds a proof 
ofthe connection between the persecution of the witches and the rise of modern sci¬ 
ence in the work of Francis Bacon, one of the reputed fathers of the new scientific 
method, showing that his concept of the scientific investigation of nature was modeled 
on the interrogation of the witches under torture, portraying nature as a woman to be 
conquered, unveiled, and raped (Merchant 1980: 168-72). 

Merchant's account has the great merit of challenging the assumption that scien¬ 
ce rationalism was a vehicle of progress, and focuses our attention on the profound 
alienation that modern science has instituted between human beings and nature. It also 
links the witch-hunt to die destruction of the environment, and connects the capitalist 
exploitation of the natural world with the exploitation of women. 

Merchant, however, overlooks the fact that the “organic worldview” which the 
elites embraced in pre-sciendfic Europe, left room for slavery and the extermination of 
the heretics. We also know that the aspiration to the technological domination of nature 
and the appropriation of women’s creative powers has accommodated different cosmo¬ 
logical frameworks. The Renaissance magicians were no less interested in these objec¬ 
tives , 40 while Newtonian physics owed its discovery of gravitational attraction not to a 
mechanistic but to a magical view of nature. Furthermore, when the vogue for philo¬ 
sophical mechanism had run its course, by the beginning of the 18th century, new philo¬ 
sophical trends emerged that stressed the value of “sympathy,’’“sensibility,” and “passion,” 
and yet were easily integrated in the project of the new science (Barnes and Shapin 1979). 

We should also consider that the intellectual scaffold diat supported the persecu¬ 
tion of the witches was not directly taken from the pages of philosophical rationalism. 
Rather, it was a transitional phenomenon, a sort of ideological bricolage that evolved under 
the pressure of the task it had to accomplish. Within it, elements taken from the fantas¬ 
tic world of medieval Christianity, rationalistic arguments, and modern bureaucratic 
court procedures combined, in the same way as in the forging of Nazism the cult of sci¬ 
ence and technology combined with a scenario pretending to restore an archaic, myth¬ 
ical world of blood bonds and pre-monetary allegiances. 

This point is suggested by Parinetto who observes that the witch-hunt was a clas¬ 
sical instance (unfortunately, not the last) of how, in the history of capitalism, “going back” 
^ a means of stepping forward, from the viewpoint of establishing the conditions for 
^pJtal accumulation. For in conjuring the devil, the inquisitors disposed of popular ani- 
T 15111 an d pantheism, redefining in a more centralized fashion the location and distribu- 
®° n of power in the cosmos and society. Thus, paradoxically (Parinetto writes), in the 
^^h-hurit the devil functioned as the true servant of God; he was the operator that most 
j***NTibuted to paving the way to the new science. Like a bailiff, or God’s secret agent, the 

brought order into the world, emptying it from competing influences, and reassert- 
*** 8 God t ^ e exc j us i ve ru i eFi He so W ell consolidated God’s command over human affairs 



The alchemist's (< desire to appropriate the function of maternity” is ivell- 
reflected in this picture of Hermes Trismegistus (alchemy's mythical founder) 
holding a fetus in his womb and suggesting (, thc inseminating role of the 
male ." 


that, within a century, with the advent of Newtonian physics, God would be able to reore 
from the world, content to guard its clock-like operations Com afar. 

Rationalism and mechanism, then, were not the immediate cause of the persecu' 
tions,aldiough they contributed to create a world committed to die exploitation of nature. 
More important, in instigating the witch-hunt, was the need of die Eutopean elites* 0 
eradicate an entire mode of existence which, by the late Middle Ages, was threatening 
their political and economic power.When this task was accomplished — when social 
cipline was restored and the ruling class saw its hegemony consolidated — witch ^ 
came to an end.The belief in witchcraft could even become an object of ridicule, deer 
as a superstition, and soon put out of memory. . 

This process began throughout Europe toward the end of the 17 th century, 
witch trials continued in Scotland for three more decades. A factor contributing t0 


204 


n d of the witch-hunt was the fact that the ruling class was beginning to lose control 
C yer it, coming under the fire of its own repressive machine, with denunciations target¬ 
ing e ven its own members. Midelfort writes that in Germany: 

as the flames licked closer to the names of people who enjoyed high 
rank and power, the judges lost confidence in the confessions and the 
panic ceased... (Midelfort 1972:206). 

In France, too, the final wave of trials brought widespread social disorder: servants 
accused their masters, children accused their parents, husbands accused their wives. Under 
these circumstances, the King decided to intervene, and Colbert extended Paris’juris- 
(Jiction to the whole of France to end the persecution. A new legal code was promul¬ 
gated in wliich witchcraft was not even mentioned (Mandrou 1968: 443). 

Just as the state had started the witch-hunt, so too, one by one, various govern¬ 
ments took the initiative in ending it. From the mid-17 th century on, efforts were made 
to brake judicial and inquisitorial zeal. One immediate consequence was that, in the 
18^ century, “common crimes” suddenly multiplied (ibid.: 437). In England, between 
1686 and 1712, as the witch-hunt died down, arrests for damage to property (burning 
ofgranaries,houses,and haystacks in particular) and assaults rose enormously (Kittredge 
1929:333), while new crimes entered the statute books. Blasphemy began to be treated 
as a punishable offense — in France, it was decreed that after the sixth conviction the 
blasphemers would have their tongues cut out — and so was sacrilege (the profanation 
of relics and the theft of hosts). New limits were also put on the sale of poisons; their 
private use was forbidden, their sale was made conditional upon the acquisition of a 
license, and die death penalty was extended to poisoners. All this suggests that the new 
social order was by now sufficiently consolidated for crimes to be identified and pun¬ 
ished as such, without any recourse to the supernatural. In the words of a French par¬ 
liamentarian: 


Witches and sorcerers are no longer condemned, firstly because it is 
difficult to establish proof of witchcraft, and secondly because such 
condemnations have been used to do harm. One has ceased therefore 
to accuse them of the uncertain in order to accuse them of the cer¬ 
tain (Mandrou 1968:361). 


Once the subversive potential of witchcraft was destroyed, the practice of magic 
could even be allowed to continue.After the witch-hunt came to an end, many women 
continued to support themselves by foretelling the future, selling charms and practic- 
jog other forms of magic. As Pierre Bayle reported in 1704, “in many provinces of 
” n ce, in Savoy, in the canton of Berne and many other places of Europe... there is no 
°r hamlet, no matter how small, where someone is not considered a witch” 
1963: 30). In 18* h -century France, an interest for witchcraft developed also 
the urban nobility who — being excluded from economic production and sens- 
were coming under attack — satisfied their desire for power by 
arts (ibid.: 31— 32).But now the authorities were no longer inter- 


^ cnat their privileges 


tec °Urs e 


to the magical 



205 



ested in prosecuting these practices, being inclined, instead, to view witchcraft as a prock 
uct of ignorance or a disorder of die imagination (Mandrou 1968: 519). By the l&j, 
century the European intelligentsia even began to take pride in its acquired enligh ten 
meat, and confidently proceeded to rewrite the history of the witch-hunt, dismissi 
it as a product of medieval supersridon. 

Yet the specter of the witches continued to haunt the imagination of the ru lj n 
class. In 1871, the Parisian bourgeoisie instinctively returned to it to demonize the 
female Communards, accusing them of wanting to set Paris aflame. There can be littl e 
doubt, in fact, that the models for the lurid tales and images used by the bourgeon 
press to create the myth of the petroleuses were drawn from the repertoire of the witch¬ 
hunt. As described by Edith Thomas, the enemies of the Commune claimed that tho u 
sands of proletarian women roamed (like witches) the city, day and night, with pots ful] 
of kerosene and stickers with the notation “B.P.B.” (“bon pour bruler,”“good for torch¬ 
ing”), presumably following instructions given to them, as part of a great conspiracy to 
reduce Paris to ashes in front of the troops advancing from Versailles.Thomas writes that 
“petroleuses were to be found everywhere. In the areas occupied by the Versailles army it 
was enough that a woman be poor and ill-dressed, and that she be carrying a basket, box, 
or milk-bottle” to be suspected”(Thomas 1966:166-67). Hundreds of women were thus 
summarily executed, while the press vilified them in the papers, Like the witch, the 
petroleuse was depicted as an older woman with a wild, savage look and uncombed hair. 
In her hands was the container for the liquid she used to perpetrate her crimes.4i 


| Endnotes 

1. As Erik Midelfort has pointed out “With a few notable exceptions, the study of 
witch-hunts has remained impressionistic... It is indeed striking how few decent 
surveys of witchcraft exist for Europe, surveys that attempt to list all the witch tri¬ 
als in a given town or region” (Midelfort 1972: 7). 

2. An expression of this identification was the creation of WITCH, a network of 
autonomous feminist groups that played an important role in the initial phase of die 
women’s liberation movement in the United States. As Robin Morgan reports,in 
Sisterhood is Powerful (1970), WITCH was born on Halloween 1968 in New York, 
but “covens” soon were formed in several cities. What the figure of the witch meant 
to these activists is shown in a flyer written by the New York coven which, ^ er 
recalling that witches were the first practitioners of birth control and abortion, 
stated: 

Witches have always been women who dared to be courageous, 
aggressive, intelligent, non-conformists, curious, independent, 
sexually liberated, revolutionary... WITCH lives and laughs in 
every woman. She is the free part of each of us... You are a 
Witch by being female, untamed, angry,joyous and immortal. 

(Morgan 1970: 605-6). 

Among North American feminist writers, those who have most consciously 
tified the history of the witches with the struggle for womens liberation are W 


206 





Above: “Pvtroletises /' 
color lithograph by 
Bcrtall reproduced in 
Lns COMMlJMiAUX, 
n. 20. 


Right: “The Women 
of Paris ." Wood 
engraving reproduced 
in Thu Graphic, 
April 29, 1871. 


20 7 








I 


Daly (1978), Starhawk (1982), and Barbara Ehrenrcich and Deidre English, whos e 
Witches, Midwives and Nurses: A History of Women Healers (1973) was for many f erri 
imsts, myself included, the first introduction to the history of the witch-hunt. 

3. How many witches were burned? This has been a controversial question i n 
scholarship on the witch-hunt and a difficult one to answer, since many trials Were 
not recorded or, if they were, the number of women executed was not specified ] n 
addition, many documents in which we may find references to witchcraft trials h aVe 
not yet been studied or have been destroyed. In the 1970s, E. W. Monter noted, f 0r 
instance, that it was impossible to calculate the number of secular witch-trials th at 
had taken place in Switzerland because these were often mentioned only in fi Sca j 
records and these records had not yet have not been analyzed (1976:21).Thirty ye ars 
later, accounts still widely differ. 

While some feminist scholars argue that the number of witches executed equals 
that of the Jews killed in Nazi Germany, according to Anne L. Barstow, on the basis 
of the present state of archival work, we are justified if we assume that approximately 
200,000 women were accused of witchcraft over a space of three centuries and a lesser 
number of them were killed. Barstow admits, however, that it is very difficult to estab¬ 
lish how many women were executed or died due to the tortures inflicted upon them. 
Many records [she writes] do no list the verdicts of the trials ... 

[or] do not include those who died in prison ... Others driven 
to despair by torture killed themselves themselves in prison ... 

Many accused witches were murdered in prison... Others died 
in prison from the tortures inflicted on them (Barstow: 22-3).. 

Taking into account also those who were lynched, Barstow concludes that at least 
100,000 women were killed, but she adds that those who escaped were “ruined for 
life,” for once accused, “suspicion and ill will followed them to their graves” (ibid.) 

While the controvery concerning the size of the witch-hunt continues, regional 
estimates have been provided by Midelfort and Larner. Midelfort (1972) has found 
that in Southwestern Germany at least 3,200 witches were burned just between 
1560 and 1670, a period when “they no longer burnt one or two witches, they 
burned twenties and hundreds” (Lea 1922: 549). Christina Larner (1981) places the 
number of women executed in Scotland between 1590 and 1650 at 4,500; but she 
too agrees that the number may be much higher, since the prerogative of conduct¬ 
ing witch-hunts was granted also to local notables, who had a free hand not only 
with arresting “witches” but with record keeping. 

4. Two feminist writers— Starhawk and Maria Mies — have placed the witch-hu nt 
in the context of primitive accumulation, reaching conclusions very similar t0 
those presented in this volume. In Dreaming the Dark (1982) Starhawk has c011 ' 
nected the witch-hunt with the dispossession of the European peasantry from 
commons, the social effects of the price inflation caused by the arrival in EuroP e 
of the American gold and silver, and the rise of professional medicine. She has 
noted that: 

The [witch] is gone now ... [but] Her fears, and the forces 
she struggled against in her lifetime, live on. 

We can open our newspapers, and read the same charges 


208 



against the idle poor...The expropriators move into the 
Third World, destroying cultures-., plundering the 
resources of land and people... If we turn on the radio, 
we can hear the crackle of flames... But the 
struggle also lives on (Starhawk 1997:218-9). 

While Starhawk examines the witch-hunt mostly in the context of the rise ofa mar¬ 
ket economy in Europe, Maria Mies 1 Patriarchy and Accumulation on a World Scale 
(1986) connects it to the colonization process and the increasing domination of 
nature which have characterized the capitalist ascendency. She argues that the witch¬ 
hunt was part of the attempt by the emerging capitalist class to establish its control 
over the productive capacity of women, and first and foremost over their generative 
powers, in the context of a new sexual and international division of labor built upon 
the exploitation of women, the colonies, and nature (Mies 1986: 69-70;78-88). 
Since the late Roman Empire, magic had been held in suspicion by the ruling classes 
as part of the ideology of the slaves and an instrument of insubordination. Pierre 
Dockes quotes De re rustica by Columella, a Roman agronomist of the Late Republic, 
who himself quoted Cato, to the effect that familiarity with astrologers, soothsayers 
and sorcerers was to be kept in check, because it had a dangerous influence on the 
slaves. Columella recommended that the villicus “shall make no sacrifices without 
orders fiom his master. He shall receive neither soothsayers nor magicians, who take 
advantage of mens superstitidons to lead them into crime_He shall shun famil¬ 

iarity with haruspices and sorcerers, two sorts of people who infect ignorant souls 
with the poison of baseless superstitidons’' (Quoted by Dockes 1982:213). 

Dockes quotes the following excerpt from Jean Bodin’s Les Six Livres de la Republique 
(1576):“[T)he might of the Arabs grew only in this way [by giving or promising free¬ 
dom to the slaves]. For as soon as captain Homar, one of Mehemet’s lieutenants, prom¬ 
ised freedom to the slaves who followed him,he attiacted so many of them that within 
a few years they made themselves lords of all the East. Rumors of freedom and the 
conquests made by the slaves inflamed the hearts of slaves in Europe, whereupon they 
took up arms, first in Spain in 781, and later in this kingdom in the time of 
Charlemagne and of Louis the Piteous, as may be seen in the edicts issued at the dme 
against sworn conspiracies among the slaves.... All at once this blaze broke out in 
Germany, where slaves, having taken up arms, shook the estates of princes and cities, 
and even Louis, king of the Germans, was forced to assemble all his forces to rout 
them. Little by little this forced the Christians to relax servitude and to free the slaves, 
excepting only certain corvtes ..." (quoted in Dockes 1982: 237). 

The most important text documenting the tolerance of the Church toward mag¬ 
ical beliefs is considered to be the Canon Episcopi (tenth century), which labelled 
as “infidels" those who believed in demons and night flights, arguing that such “illu¬ 
sions" were products of the devil (Russell 1972:76-7). However, in his study of the 
witch-hunt in Southwestern Germany, Erik Midelfort has disputed the idea that 
the Church in the Middle Ages was skeptical and tolerant with regard to witch¬ 
craft. He has been particularly critical of the use that has been made of the Canon 
Episcopi, arguing that it states the opposite of what it has been made to say.That is. 


209 



we should not conclude that the Church condoned magical practices because th 
author of the Canon attacked the belief in magic. According to Midelfort, the p 0s j 
tion of the Canon was the same that the Church held until the 18 th century^" 
Church condemned the belief that magical deeds are possible, because it consii 
ered it a Manicheian heresy to attribute divine powers to witches and devils y et 
it maintained that those who practiced magic were rightly punished, because th 
harbored an evil will and allied themselves with the devil (Midelfort 1975:16^i9j 
Midelfort stresses that even in 16 th -century Germany, the clergy insisted on 
the need not to believe in the powers of the devil. But he points out that (a) most 
of the trials were instigated and managed by secular authorities who were not con 
cerned with theological disquisitions; (b) among the clergy as well, the distin c tio n 
between “evil will” and “evil doing” had little practical effect, for in the final analy¬ 
sis many clergymen recommended that the witches should be punished with death 

8 . Monter (1976), 18.The Sabbat first appeared in Medieval literature toward the mid¬ 
dle of the 15 f h century. Rossell Hope Robbins writes that: 

To the early demonologist Johannes Nieder (1435) the Sabbat 
was unknown, but the anonymous French tract Errores Gazariarum 
(1459) has a detailed account of the "synagogue.* Nicholas Jaquier 
about 1458 used the actual word ‘sabbat/ although his account was 
sketchy; ‘sabbat* also appeared in a report of the witch persecution 
at Lyons in 1460... by the 16th century the sabbat was an established 
part of witchcraft (1959: 415). 

9. The witch trials were expensive, as they could continue for months and they became 
a source of employment for many people (Robbins 1959: 111). Payments for the “ser¬ 
vices” and the people involved — the judge, the surgeon, the torturer, the scribe, the 
guards — including their meals and wine, are shamelesssly included in the records of 
the trials, in addition to the cost of the executions and the cost of keeping die witches 
in prison.The following is the bill fora trial in the Scottish town ofKirkcaldy in 1636: 


Pounds 

For ten loads of coal, 
to burn them 
five marks or 3 

For a tar barrel 
For hurden (hemp fabric) 
to be jumps (short coats) 
for them 3 

For making of them 
For one to go to Finmouth 
for the laird to sit upon 
their assize as judge 
For the executioner 

for his pains 8 

For his expenses here 


Shilling Pence 


6 8 
14 


10 

8 

6 

14 

16 4 j\ 

(Robbins 1959:11 


210 


The costs for a witch-trial were paid by the victim's relatives, but “where the vic- 
tijii was penniless’" they were bom by die citizens of the town or die landlord 
(Robbins, ibid.). On this subject, see Robert Mandrou (1968: 112); and Christina 
Larner (1983:115), among others. 

10 H. R. Trevor-Roper writes: “[The witch-hunt] was forwarded by the cultivated 
popes of the Renaissance, by the great Protestant Reformers, by the Saints of the 
Counter-Reformation, by the scholars,lawyers and churchmen.... [f these two cen¬ 
turies were an age of light, we have to admit that in one respect at least the dark 
ages were more civilized....” (Trevor-Roper 1967:122fJ). 

H Candini 1989:13--6; Prosperi 1989: 217ff; Martin 1989: 32. As Ruth Martin writes 
concerning the work of the Inquisition in Venice: 1 'A comparison by [P.F.] Grendler 
of the number of deadi sentences awarded by the Inquisition and by civilian tri¬ 
bunals has led him to conclude that ‘Italian Inquisitions exercised great restraint 
compared to civil tribunals,’ and that ‘light punishment and commutation, tather 
than severity, marked die Venetian Inquisition,' a conclusion more recently con¬ 
firmed by E.W. Monter in his study of the Mediterranean Inquisition.... As far as 
the Venetian trials were concerned, neither execution nor mutilation was given as 
a sentence and galley service was rare. Long prison sentences were also rare, and 
where these or banishments were issued, they were often commuted after a com¬ 
paratively short space of time.... Pleas from those in prison that they may be allowed 
to transf er to house arrest on grounds of ill-health were also treated with sympa¬ 
thy” (Martin 1989: 32-33). 

12. There is also evidence of significant shifk in the weight attributed to specific accu¬ 
sations, the nature of the crimes commonly associated with witchcraft, and the social 
composition of the accusers and accused. The most significant shift, perhaps, is that 
in an early phase of the persecution (during the 15< h -century trials) witchcraft was 
seen predominantly as a collective crime, relying on mass gatherings and organiza¬ 
tion, while by the 17 th century it was seen as a crime of an individual nature, an evil 
career in which isolated witches specialized — this being a sign of the breakdown 
of communal bonds brought about by the increasing privitization of land tenure 
and the expansion of commercial relations in this period. 

13. Germany is an exception to this pattern, since the witch-hunt here affected 
many members of the bourgeoisie, including town councillors. Arguably, in 
Germany the confiscation of property was a major reason behind the persecu¬ 
tion, accounting for the fact that it reached there proportions unmatched in any 
other country, except for Scotland. However, according to Midelfort the legal¬ 
ly of confiscation was controversial; and even in the case of rich families, no 
more than one third of the property was taken. Midelfort adds that in Germany 
too “it is beyond question that most of the people executed were poor” 

(Midelfort 1972: 1964-169). 

14 a 

A serious analysis of the relation between changes in land tenure, above all land 
privatization, and witch-hunting, is still missing. Alan Macfarlane, who first sug¬ 
gested a significant connection between the Essex enclosures and the witch-hunt 
111 same area, later recanted (Macfarlane 1978). But the relation between the 
phenomena is unquestionable.As we have seen (in Chapter 2), land privatiza- 


tion was a significant factor — directly and indirectly — in the pauperization that 
women suffered in the period in which the witch-hunt assumed mass proportions 
As soon as land was privatized and a land market developed, women became vuj 
nerable to a double process of expropriation: by well-to-do land-buyers and by 
their own male relations. 


15. As the witch-hunt expanded, however, the distinctions between the professional 
witch and those who turned to her for help or engaged in magical practices with 
out any special claim to expertise were blurred. 

16. Midelfort, too, sees a connection between the Price Revolution and the pers e cu 
tion of the witches. Commenting upon the escalation of witch-trials m 
Southwestern Germany after 1620, he writes: 


The years 1622-23 saw the total disruption of coinage. Money 
became so depreciated that prices soared out of sight. Food prices, 
moreover, did not need monetary policy to rise.The year 1625 had a 
cold spring and bad harvests from Wurzburg across Wuttemberg to the 
whole Rhine valley.The next year found famine along the Rhine val¬ 
ley.. ..These conditions of themselves drove prices beyond what many 
laborers could afford (1972:123-24). 

17. Writes Le Roy Ladurie: “Between these frenzied uprisings ( 51 V) [the witch-hunts] 
and authentic popular revolts which also reached their climax in the same moun¬ 
tains about 1580-1600, there existed a series of geographical, chronological, and 
sometimes family coincidences’* (Le Roy Ladurie 1987: 208). 

18. In the obsession with the Sabbat or Synagogue, as the mythical witches’ gathering 
was called, we find a proof of the continuity between the persecution of the witches 
and the persecution of the Jews. As heretics and propagators of Arabic wisdom Jews 
were regarded as sorcerers, poisoners and devil worshippers. To the portrait of Jews 
as devilish beings contributed the tales surrounding the practice of circumcision, 
which claimed that Jews ritually murdered children. “Time and again the Jews were 
described [in the miracle plays as well as in sketches] as ’devils from Hell, enemies 
of the human race’” (Trachtenberg 1944:23). On the connection between the per¬ 
secution of the Jews and the witch-hunt, see also Carlo Ginzburg’s Ecstasies (1991), 
Chapters 1 and 2. 

19. The reference here is to the conspirators of the “Bundschuh”— the German peas¬ 
ant union, whose symbol was the clog — which in the 1490s, in Alsace, plotted to 
rise against church and castle. Of them Friedrick Engels wrote that they were wont 
to hold their meetings at night on the lonesome Hunher Hill (Engels 1977:66). 

20. The Italian historian Luciano Parinetto has suggested that the theme of cannibal¬ 
ism may be an import from the New World, as cannibalism and devil- wors b'P 
merged in the reports about the “Indians” made by the conquistadors and 
clerical accomplices. In support of this thesis Parinetto cites Francesco Ma na 
Guazzos Compendium Maleficarum (1608) which, in his view, demonstrates r h at 
demonologists in Europe were influenced, in their portrayal of witches as 
bals, by the reports coming from the New World. However, witches in Europ e Nvelf 
accused of sacrificing children to the devil long before the conquest and colo nlW 
tion of the Americas. 


212 



I 


21. In the 14th and 15th centuries, the Inquisition accused women, heretics, and Jews of 
witchcraft. It was in the course of trials held in 1419-1420 in Lucerne and Interlaken 
that the word Hexerei (“witchcraft”) was first used (Russell 1972: 203). 

22 Murray’s thesis has been revived in recent years, in the midst of a renewed interest 
among eco-feminists for the woman-nature relation in early matrifocal societies. 
Among those who have read the witches as the defenders of an ancient female-cen¬ 
tered religion that worshipped women’s reproductive powers is Mary Condren. In 
The Serpent and the Goddess (1989), Condren argues that the witch-hunt was part of 
a long process whereby Christianity displaced the priestesses of the older religion, 
first by asserting that they used their powers for evil purposes and later by denying 
they had such powers(Condren 1989: 80-86). One of the most interesting claims 
Condren makes in this context concerns the connection between the persecution 
of the witches and the attempt by the Christian priests to appropriate women’s 
reproductive powers. Condren shows how the priests engaged in a true competi¬ 
tion with the “wise women,” performing reproductive miracles, making barren 
women pregnant, changing the sex of inf ants, performing supernatural abortions 
and, last but not least, fostering abandoned children (Condren 1989: 84-85). 

23. By the middle of the 16< h century most European countries began to gather regu¬ 
larly demographic statistics. In 1560 the Italian historian Francesco Guicciardini 
expressed surprise upon learning that in Antwerp and generally in the Netherlands 
the authorities did not gather demographic data except in case of “urgent neces¬ 
sity” (Helleneir 1958: 1—2). By the 17< h century all the states where the witch-hunt 
was taking place were also promoting population growth (ibid.: 46). 

24. Monica Green, however, has challenged die idea diat in the Middle Ages there 
existed a rigid sexual division of medical labor, such that men were excluded from 
the care of women and particularly from gynecology and obstetrics. She also argues 
that women were present, although in smaller number, throughout the medical 
community, not just as midwives but as physicians, apothecaries, barber-surgeons. 
Green questions the common claim that midwives were especially targeted by the 
authorities, and that we can trace a connection between the witch-hunt and die 
expulsion of women horn die medical profession starting in the 14 th and 15 th cen¬ 
turies. She claims that the restrictionsplacedon practicing resulted from many social 
tensions (in Spain, e.g., from the conflict between Christians and Muslims) and, 
while the increasing limitations placed on women’s practice can be documented, 
the reasons behind them cannot. She admits that the prevailing concerns beiiind 
these limitations were of “moral” origin; that is, they related to considerations about 
the woman’s character (Green 1989: 435ff). 

^5- J. Gelis writes that “the state and church traditionally distrusted this woman whose 
practice often remained secret, and steeped in magic if not witchcraft, and who could 
definitely count on the support of the rural conununity.” ("L'itat et Itylise se mefient 
tra ditiotiellement de cette femme dont la pratique reste souvent secrete, empreinte de magie, 
voire de sorcellerie et qui dispose au sein de la commuiuiutt rurale d’une audience certaine .”) 
He adds that it was above all necessary to break the complicity, true or imagined, of 
the sages femmes in such crimes as abortion, infanticide, child abandonment (Gelis 
1977: 9276). In France the first edict regulating the activity of the sages femmes was 




213 


1 


promulgated in Strasbourg at the end of the 16 th century. By the end of the 17^ 
century the sages femmes were completely under the control of the state, and vver* 
used by the state as a reactionary force in its campaign of moral reform (Gelis 1977) 

26. This may explain why contraceptives, which had been widely used in the Middj e 
Ages, disappeared in the 17* century, surviving only in the milieu of prostitution 
and when they reappeared on the scene they were placed in male hands, so that 
women were not allowed to use them except with male permission. For a longtime 
in fact, the only contraceptive offered by bourgeois medicine was to be the coru 
dom. The “sheath” begins to appear in England in the 18* century, one of the 
mentions of it is in James Boswells Diary (quoted by Helleiner 1958: 94). 

27. In 1556, Henry 0 in Fiance passed a law punishing as murderous any woman wh 0 
hid her pregnancy and whose child was bom dead. A similar law was passed in 
Scotland in 1563. Until the 18* century in Europe infanticide was punished with 
the death penalty. In England, during the Protectorate, the death penalty was intro¬ 
duced for adultery. 

To the attack on women's reproductive rights, and the introduction of new laws 
sanctioning the subordination of the wife to the husband within the family, we must 
add the criminalization of prostitution, starting in the mid-16* century. As we have 
seen (in Chapter 2), prostitutes were subjected to atrocious punishments such as that 
of the acabussade . In England, they were branded on the forehead with hot irons in 
a manner reminiscent of the “devil’s mark,” and they were whipped and shaved like 
witches. In Germany, the prostitute could be drowned, burned or buried alive. Here, 
too, she was shaved — hair was viewed as a favorite seat of the devil. At times her 
nose was cut off, a practice of Arab origin, used to punish “crimes of honor” and 
inflicted also on women charged with adultery. 

Like the witch, the prostitute was presumably recognized by her “evil eye.” It 
was assumed that sexual transgression was diabolical and gave women magical pow¬ 
ers. On the relation between eros and magic in the Renaissance, see loan P.Couliano 
(1987). 

28. The debate on the nature of the sexes began in the late Middle Ages and then 
reopened in the 17* century 

29. “Tu non pensavi ch’io loico fossi!” (“You didn’t think I was a logician!”) chuckles 
the Devil in Dantes Inferno, while snatching the soul of Boniface the VI11, who had 
cunningly thought of escaping the eternal fire by repenting in the very act of per¬ 
petrating his crimes (Divine Comedy , Inferno , canto XXVII, verse 123). 

30. The sabotage of the conjugal act was a major theme also in contemporary judicial 
proceedings regarding matrimony and separation, especially in France. As Robert 
Mandrou observes, men were so afraid of being made impotent by women, that v ^' 
lage priests often forbade women who were suspected of being experts in the “tying 
of knots” (an alleged device for causing male impotence) from attending wedding 5 
(Mandrou 1968: 81-82, 391 ff.; Le Roy Ladurie 1974: 204-205; Lecky 1886: 100)* 

31. This tale appears in several demonologies. It always ends with the man discove nI1 2 
tlie injury inflicted on him and forcing the witch to return his penis to hint* 
accompanies him to the top of a tree where she has many hidden in a nest; then 13 * 1 
chooses one but the witch objects:“No, that one belongs to the Bishop” 


214 


^2 Carolyn Merchant argues that the interrogations and tortures of the witches pro¬ 
vided the model for the methodology of die New Science, as defined by Francis 
Bacon: 

Much of the imagery [Bacon] used in delineating his scientific 
objectives and methods derives from the courtrooms, and 
because it treats nature as a female to be tortured through 
mechanical inventions, strongly suggests the interrogations of 
the witch-trials and the mechanical devices used to torture witches. 

In a relevant passage. Bacon stated that the method by which 
nature’s secrets might be discovered consisted in investigating 
the secrets of witchcraft by inquisition....” (Merchant 1980: 168). 

33 On the attack against animals, see Chapter 2, pp. 60 and 70n. 

34 It is significant, in this context, that witches were often accused by children. Norman 
Cohn has interpreted this phenomenon as a revolt of the young against the elderly, 
and in particular against parental authority (N. Cohn 1975;Trevor Roper 2000). But 
other factors need to be considered. First, it is plausible that the climate of fear cre¬ 
ated by the witch-hunt over the years was responsible for die large presence of chil¬ 
dren among the accusers, which began to materialize in the 17 th century. It is also 
important to notice that diose charged as witches were mostly proletarian women, 
while the children who accused them were often the children of their employers. 
Thus, we can presume that children were manipulated by their parents to make 
charges which they diemselves were reluctant to pursue, as it was undoubtedly the 
case in the Salem witch-trials. We must also consider that, in the 16 th and 17^ cen¬ 
turies, there was a growing preoccupation among the well-to-do with the physical 
intimacy between their children and their servants, above all their nurses, which was 
beginning to appear as a source of indiscipline. The familiarity that had existed 
between masters and servants in the Middle Ages vanished with the rise of the bour¬ 
geoisie, who formally instituted more egalitarian relations between employers and 
their subordinates (for instance, by levelling clothing styles), but in reality increased 
the physical and psychological distance between them. In the bourgeois household, 
the master would no longer undress in front of his servants, nor would he sleep in 
the same room with them. 

35- For a true-to-life Sabbat, in which sexual elements and themes evoking class revolt 
combine, see Julian Cornwairs description of the rebel camp that peasants set up 
during the Norfolk uprising of 1549. The camp caused much scandal among the 
gentry, who apparently looked at it as a veritable Sabbat.Writes Cornwall: 

[T)he conduct of the rebels was misrepresented in every way. It 
was alleged that the camp became the Mecca for every dissolute per¬ 
son in the county.... Bands of rebels foraged for supplies and money. 

3,000 bullocks and 20,000 sheep, to say nothing of pigs, fowl, deer, 
swans and thousands of bushels of corn, were driven in and consumed, 
it was said, in a few days. Men whose ordinary diet was too often sparse 
and monotonous revelled in die abundance of flesh, and there was 
reckless waste. It lasted all the sweeter for coming from the beasts 
which were the root of so much resentment (Cornwall 1977: 147). 


215 



I 


The “beasts” were the much prized wool-pioducing sheep, which were indeed *s 
Thomas Moore put it in his Utopia ,‘eating humans’, as arable lands and common 
fields were being enclosed and turned to pasture in order to raise them. 

36. Thorndike 1923-58v: 69; Holmes 1974: 85—86; Monter 1969: 57 _ 58 # 
Seligman writes that from the middle of the 14 th century to the 16th centu^ 
alchemy was universally accepted, but with the rise of capitalism the attitude of the 
monarchs changed. In Protestant countries, alchemy became an object of ridicule 
The alchemist was depicted as a smoke-seller, who promised to change metals i nto 
gold, but failed in his performance (Seligman 1948:126ff). He was often represented 
at work in his study,surrounded by strange vases and instruments, oblivious to every, 
thing around him, while across the street his wife and children would be knocking 
at the poor house. Ben Jonsons satirical portrait of the alchemist reflects this new 
attitude. 

Astrology, too, was practiced into the 17 th century In his Demonology (1597), 
James l maintained that it was legitimate, above all when confined to the study 0 f 
seasons and weather forecasts. A detailed description of the life of an English 
astrologer at the end of the 16 th century is found in A. L. Rowse’s Sex and Society in 
Shakespeare's Age (1974). Here we learn that in the same period when the witch- 
hunt was peaking, a male magician could continue to carry on his work, although 
with some difficulty and taking some risks at times. 

37. With reference to the West Indies, Anthony Barker writes that no aspect of the unfa¬ 
vorable image of the Negro built by the slave owners had wider or deeper roots 
than the allegation of insatiable sexual appetite. Missionaries reported that the 
Negros refused to be monogamous, were excessively libidinous, and told stories of 
Negroes having intercourse with apes (pp. 121-23). The fondness of Africans for 
music was also held against them, as proof of their instinctual, irrational nature (ibid.: 
115). 

38. In the Middle Ages when a child took over the family property, s/he would auto¬ 
matically assume the care of the aging parents, while in the 1century the parents 
began to be abandoned and priority was given to investment into one’s children 
(Macfarlane 1970:205). 

39. The statute which James I passed in 1604, imposed the death penalty for all who 
“used spirits and magic” regardless of whether they had done any harm. This 
statute later became the basis upon which the persecution of witches was carried 
on in the American colonies. 

40. In “Outrunning Atlanta: Feminine Destiny in Alchemic Transmutations,” 

Allen and Hubbs write that: 

The recurrent symbolism in alchemical works suggest an obses- 
sion with reversing, or perhaps even arresting, the feminine hegemony 
over the process of biological creation.. ..This desired mastery is also 
depicted in such imageries as that of Zeus giving birth to Athena from 
his head...or Adam being delivered of Eve from his chest. The 
alchemist who exemplifies the primordial striving for control over the 
natural world seeks nothing less than the magic of maternity....Thus 
the great alchemist Paracelsus gives an affirmative answer to the ques- 


216 




A witch rides a goat through the sky, causing a rain of fire. 
Woodcut from Frattcesco-Maria Guazzo , Compundium 
Maumcarum ( 1610 ). 


tion ‘Whether it was possible for art and nature that a man should be 
born outside a woman's body and a natural mother's' (Allen and Hubbs 
1980:213). 

41 On the image of the petroleuse see Albert Boime's Art and the French Commune (1995: 
109-11; 196-99), and Rupert Christiansen's Paris Babylon: The Story of the Paris 
Commune (1994: 352-53). 


217 





Amerigo Vespucci landing on the South American coast in 1497. Before him, 
seductively lying on a hammock, is u America. " Behind her some cannibals are 
roasting human remains. Design by Jan van der Straet, and engraved by 
Theodore Galle (1589). 






Colonization 
Christianization 

Caliban and Witches in the New World 

"...and so they say that we have come to this earth to destroy the world. 

Ihey say that the winds ruin the houses, and cut the trees, and the jire burns 
them, but that u>e devour everything, we consume the earth, u*e redirect the rivers, 
we are never quiet, never at rest, but always run here and there, seekinggold and 
silver, never satisfied, and then we gamble with it, make war, kill each other, rob, 
swear, never say the truth, and have deprived them of their means of livelihood. 

And finally they curse the sea which has put on the earth such evil and harsh 
children ” (Girolamo Benzoni, Historia del Mondo Nuovo , 1565J. 

. .overcome by torture and pain, [the uvmen] were obliged to confess that they 

did adore huacas_ They lamented, ‘Now in this life we women.. .are 

Christian; perhaps then the priest is to blame i f we women adore the moun¬ 
tains, fiveflee to the hills and puna, si nee there i s no justicefor us here. ” (Felipe 
Guaman Poma de Ayala ,Nueva Chronica y Buen Cobierno , 1615) 

Introduction 

Tta history of the body and the witch-hunt that I have presented is based on an assump- 

11011 that is summed up by the reference to “Caliban and the Witch/' the characters of 

The Tempest symbolizing the American Indians’ resistance to colonization. 1 The assump- 

^ 0n is the continuity between the subjugation of the populations of the New World and 

that of people in Europe, women in particular, in the transition to capitalism. In both 

we have the forcible removal of entire communities from their land, large-scale 

^Poverishnient, the launching of“Christianizing”campaigns destroying people’s auton- 

an d communal relations. We also have a constant cross-fertilization whereby forms 

^Pression that had been developed in the Old World were transported to the New 
and rv. r r 

nen re-imported into Europe. 





219 



The differences should not be underestimated. By the 18 th century, due to the 
flow of gold, silver and other resources coming from the Americas into Europe, an inter., 
national division of labor had taken shape that divided the new global proletariat by 
means of different class relations and systems of discipline, marking the beginning of 0 fte n 
conflicting histories within the working class. But the similarities in the treatments to 
which the populations of Europe and the Americas were subjected are sufficient to 
demonstrate the existence of one single logic governing the development of capitalism 
and the structuial character of the atrocities perpetrated in this process. An outstanding 
example is the extension of the witch-hunt to the American colonies. 

The persecution of women and men through the charge of witchcraft is a phe. 
nomenon that, in the past, was largely considered by historians to be limited to Europe 
The only exception admitted to this rule were the Salem witch trials, which remain the 
focus of the scholarship on witch-hunting in the New World. It is now recognized, how- 
ever, that the charge of devil-worshipping played a key function also in the colonization 
of the American aboriginal population. On this subject, two texts, in particular, must be 
mentioned that form the basis for my discussion in this chapter. The first is Irene 
Silverblatts Moon, Sun, and Witches (1987), a study of witch hunting and the redefinition 
of gender relations in Inca society and colonial Peru, which (to my knowledge) is the first 
in English to reconstruct the history of the Andean women persecuted as witches. The 
other is Luciano Parinetto s Streghe e Potere (1998), a series of essays that document the 
impact of witch-hunting in America on the witch trials in Europe, marred, however, by 
the author's insistence that the persecution of the witches was gender-neutral. 

Both these works demonstrate that also in the New World witch-hunting was a 
deliberate strategy used by the authorities to instill terror , destroy collective resistance, silence 
entire communities, and turn their members against each other. It was also a strategy of 
enclosure which, depending on the context, could be enclosure of land, bodies or social 
relations. Above all, as in Europe, witch-hunting was a means of dehumanization and as 
such the paradigmatic form of repression, serving to justify enslavement and genocide. 

Witch-hunting did not destroy the resistance of the colonized. Due primarily to 
the struggle of women, the connection of the American Indians with the land, the local 
religions and nature survived beyond the persecution providing, for more than five hun¬ 
dred years, a source of anti-colonial and anti-capitalist resistance .This is extremely impor¬ 
tant for us, at a time when a renewed assault is being made on the resources and mode 
of existence of indigenous populations across the planet; for we need to rethink how the 
conquistadors strove to subdue those whom they colonized, and what enabled the lat¬ 
ter to subvert this plan and, against the destruction of their social and physical universe, 
create a new historical reality. 

The Birth of the Cannibals 

When Columbus sailed to “Indies” the witch-hunt in Europe was not yet a mass phe¬ 
nomenon. Nevertheless, the use of devil-worship as a weapon to strike at political ene¬ 
mies and vilify entire populations (like Muslims and Jews) was already common among 
the elite. More than that, as Seymour Phillips writes, a “persecuting society” had deveb 


220 



D ped within medieval Europe,” fed by militarism and Christian intolerance, that looked 
a t the‘ Other” as mainly an object of aggression (Phillips 1994). Thus, it is not surpris¬ 
ing if“cannibal”“infider“ba r barian,’“‘monstrous races ,” and devil worshipper were the 
“ethnographic models” with which the Europeans “entered the new age of expansion” 
(i/jii/. 62), providing the filter through which missionaries and conquistadors interpreted 
t he cultures, religions, and sexual customs of the peoples they encountered. 2 Other cul- 
infal marks contributed to the invention of the “Indians”. Most stigmatizing and per¬ 
haps projecting the Spaniards’ labor needs were “nakedness” and “sodomy,” that quali¬ 
fied the Amerindians as beings living in an animal state (thus capable of being turned 
into beasts of burden), though some reports also stressed, as a sign of their bestiality, their 
propensity to share and “give everything they have in return for things of little value” 
(Hulme 1994:198). 

Defining the aboriginal American populations as cannibals, devil-worshippers,and 
sodomites supported the fiction that the Conquest was not an unabashed quest for gold 
and silver but was a converting mission, a claim that, in 1508, helped the Spanish Crown 
gain for it the blessing of the Pope and complete authority over the Church in the 
Americas. It also removed, in the eyes of the world and possibly of the colonizers them¬ 
selves, any sanction against the atrocities which they would commit against the “Indians,” 
thus functioning as a license to kill regardless of what the intended victims might do. 
And, indeed, “The whip, gibbet, and stock, imprisonment, torture, rape, and occasional 
killing became standard weapons for enforcing labor discipline” in the New World 
(Cockroft 1990:19). 

In a first phase, however, the image of the colonized as devil-worshippers could 
coexist with a more positive, even idyllic one, picturing the “Indians” as innocent, and 
generous beings, living a life “free of toil and tyranny,” recalling the mythical “Golden 
Age” or an earthly paradise (Brandon 1986: 6-8; Sale 1991: 100-101). 

This characterization may have been a literary stereotype or,as Roberto Retamar, 
among others, has suggested, the rhetorical counterpart of the image of the “savage,” 
expressing the Europeans’ inability to see the people they met as real human beings 3 
But this optimistic view also corresponded to a period in the conquest (from 1520 to 
1540s) in which the Spaniards still believed that the aboriginal populations would be 
easily converted and subjugated (Cervantes 1994). This was the time of mass baptisms, 
when much zeal was deployed in convincing the “Indians” to change their names and 
abandon their gods and sexual customs, especially polygamy and homosexuality. [B]are- 
breasted women were forced to cover themselves, men in loincloths had to put on 
trousers (Cockcroft: 1983: 21). But at this time, the struggle against the devil consisted 
niainly of bonfires of local “idols,” even though many political and religious leaders from 
Ce ntral Mexico were put on trial and burned at the stake by the Franciscan father Juan 
Zumarraga,in the years between 1536 (when the Inquisition was introduced in South 
America) and 1543. 

As the Conquest proceeded, however, no space was left for any accommodations. 
m Posing one’s power over other people is not possible without denigrating them to the 
jj° lnt where the possibility of identification is precluded. Thus, despite the earlier homi- 
^ a bout the gentle Tainos, an ideological machine was set in motion, complementing 
rnilitary one, that portrayed the colonized as “filthy” and demonic beings practicing 


221 


all kinds of abominations, while the same crimes that previously had been attributed to 
lack of religious education — sodomy, cannibalism, incest, cross dressing — were now 
treated as signs that the “Indians” were under the dominion of the devil and they could 
be justifiably deprived of their lands and their lives (Williams 1986: 136-137). In refer, 
ence to this image-shift, Fernando Cervantes writes in The Devil in The Netv World ( 1994 ). 

before 1530 it would have been difficult to predict which one of these 
views would emerge as the dominant one. By the middle of the six- 
teenth century, however, [a] negative demonic view of Amerindian 
cultures had triumphed, and its influence was seen to descend like a 
thick fog on every statement officially and unofficially made on the 
subject (1994: 8). 

It could be surmised, on the basis of the contemporary histories of the “Indies” 
— such as De Gomara’s (1556) and Acostas (1590) — that this change of perspective 
was prompted by the Europeans’ encounter with imperialistic states like the Aztec and 
Inca, whose repressive machinery included the practice of human sacriflces (Martinez et 
al 1976). In the Historia NaturalYMoral de Las Indias , published in Sevilla, in 1590,by the 
Jesuit Joseph de Acosta, there are descriptions that give us a vivid sense of the repulsion 
generated, among the Spaniards, by the mass sacrifices carried out, particularly by the 
Aztecs, which involved thousands of youths (war captives or purchased children and 
slaves). 4 Yet, when we read Bartoleme De Las Casas’ account of the destruction of the 
Indies or any other account of the Conquest, we wonder why should the Spaniards have 
been shocked by this practice when they themselves had no qualms committing unspeak¬ 
able atrocities for the sake of God and gold and, according to Cortez, in 1521, they had 
slaughtered 100,000 people, just to conquerTenochtitlan (Cockroft 1983: 19). 

Similarly, the cannibalistic rituals they discovered in America, which figure promi¬ 
nently in the records of the Conquest, must not have been too different from the med¬ 
ical practices that were popular in Europe at the time. In the 16 th , 17 th and even 18 lh cen¬ 
turies, the drinking of human blood (especially the blood of those who had died of a 
violent death) and mummy water, obtained by soaking human flesh in various spirits, 
was a common cure for epilepsy and other illnesses in many European countries, 
Furdiermore, this type of cannibalism, “involving human flesh, blood, heart, skull, bone 
marrow, and other body parts was not limited to fringe groups of society but was prac¬ 
ticed in the most respectable circles” (Gordon-Grube 1988: 406-407). 5 Thus, the new 
horror that the Spaniards felt for the aboriginal populations, after the 1550s, cannot be 
easily attributed to a cultural shock, but must be seen as a response inherent to the 1°£ 1C 
of colonization that inevitably must dehumanize and fear those it wants to enslave. 

How successful was this strategy can be seen from the ease with which the Spaniard 
rationalized the high mortality rates caused by die epidemics that swept the region in c ^ c 
wake of the Conquest, which they interpreted as God’s punishment for the Indians beas , 
conduct.^ Also the debate that took place in 1550, at Valladolid, in Spain, betw^ 
Bartolome de Las Casas and the Spanish jurist Juan Gines de Sepulveda, on 
not the “Indians” were to be considered as human beings, would have been 
without an ideological campaign representing the latter as animals and demons. 7 


wheth CT 

unthii^ a ^ e 


222 






,J| 

tmwp 











(Mi 

jjr 

S3 



Travel logs illustrated u/ith horrific images of cannibals stuffing themselves 
urith human remains proliferated in Europe in the a ftermath of the conquest. 
A cannibal banquet in Bahia (Brazil), according to the description of the 
German J. C, A Idenburg. 


The spread of illustrations portraying life in the New World, that began to circu¬ 
late in Europe after the 1550s, completed this work of degradation, with their multitudes 
naked bodies and cannibalistic banquets, reminiscent of witches’ Sabbats, featuring 
human heads and limbs as the main course. A late example of this genre of literature is 
k Lavre des Antipodes (1630), compiled by Johann Ludwig Gottfried, which displays a 
dumber of horrific images: women and children stuffing themselves with human entrails, 
or ^e cannibal conununity gathered around a grill, feasting on legs and arms while 
^ tc hing the toasting of human remains. Prior contributions to the cultural production 
Amerindians as bestial beings are the illustrations in Les Singularitez de la France 
^rctique (Paris 1557) by the French Franciscan Andre Thevet, already centered on the 


Ant, 

thi 


of the human quartering, cooking, and banquet; and Hans Staden’s Wahrharf tige 
torta (Marburg 1557), in which the author describes his captivity among the canni- 
Uidios of Brazil (Parinetto 1998:428). 


223 






Cannibals in Bahia feasting on human remains. Illustrations displaying 
the Amerindian community roasting and feeding on human remains 
completed the degradation of the aboriginal American populations 
begun by the work of the missionaries. 


224 





Exploitation, Resistance, and Demonisation 


turning point, in the anti-Indian propaganda and anti-idolatry campaign that accompa- 
j^ed the colonization process, was the decision by the Spanish Crown, in the 15 50s, to intro- 
duce in the American colonies a far more severe system of exploitation. The decision was 
piotivated by the crisis of the “plunder economy” that had been introduced after the 
Conquest whereby the accumulation of wealth continued to depend on the expropriation 
of the “Indians”’surplus goods more than on the direct exploitation of their labor (Spalding 
1984; Steve J. Stern 1982). Until die 1550s, despite the massacres and the exploitation asso¬ 
ciated with the system of the etuomienda, the Spaniards had not completely disrupted the 
subsistence economies which they had found in the areas they colonized. Instead, they had 
relied, for the wealth they accumulated, on the tribute systems put into place by the Aztecs 
and Incas, whereby designated cliiefs (caciquez in Mexico, kumcas in Peru) delivered them 
quotas of goods and labor supposedly compatible with the survival of the local economies. 
The tribute which the Spaniards exacted was much higher than that the Aztecs and Incas 
had ever demanded of those they conquered; but it was still not sufficient to satisfy their 
needs. By the 1550s, they were finding it difficult to obtain enough labor for the both the 
obrajes (manufacturing workshops where goods were produced for the international mar¬ 
ket) and the exploitation of the newly discovered silver and mercury mines, like the leg¬ 
endary one at Potosi. 8 

The need to squeeze more work from the aboriginal populations largely derived 
from the situation at home where the Spanish Crown was literally floating on the American 
bullion, which bought food and goods no longer produced in Spain. In addition, the plun¬ 
dered wealth financed the Crown’s European territorial expansion.This was so dependent 
on the continuous arrival of masses of silver and gold from the New World that, by the 
1550s, the Crown was ready to undermine the power of the encotnenderos in order to appro¬ 
priate the bulk of the Indians’ labor for the extraction of silver to be shipped to Spain. 9 But 
resistance to colonization was mounting (Spalding 1984: 134—135; Stern 1982)40 It was 
in response to this challenge that, both in Mexico and Peru, a war was declared on indige¬ 
nous cultures paving the way to a draconian intensification of colonial rule. 

In Mexico, this turn occurred in 1562 when, by the initiative of the Provincial 
Diego de Landa, an anti-idolatry campaign was launched in the Yucatan peninsula, in the 
course of which more than 4,500 people were rounded up and brutally tortured under 
the charge of practicing human sacrifi ces. They were then subjected to a well-orches- 
trated public punishment which finished destroying their bodies and their morale 
(Clendinnen 1987:71—92). So cruel were the penalties inflicted (floggings so severe that 
they made the blood flow, years of enslavement in the mines) that many people died or 
remained unfit for work; others fled their homes or conunitted suicide, so that work 
c ame to an end and the regional economy was disrupted. However, the persecution that 
^anda mounted was the foundation of a new colonial economy, since it signaled to the 
0c al population that the Spaniards were there to stay and that the rule of the old gods 
** ov er {ibid - 190). 

In Peru, as well, the first large-scale attack on diabolism occurred in the 1560s, 
C ° ln ciding with the rise of the Taki Onqoy movement, 11 a native millenarian move- 


225 


L>U(V/IU£)UlllU(< UlltU IvdHUUWUVlt 


merit that preached against collaboration with the Europeans and for a pan-Ande ai) 
alliance of the local gods {huacas) putting an end to colonization. Attributing the def eat 
suffered and the rising mortality to the abandonment of the local gods, the Takionq 0s 
encouraged people to reject the Christian religion,and the names,food, clothing received 
from the Spaniards. They also urge them to refuse the tribute payments and labor drafts 
the Spaniards imposed on them, and to “stop wearing shirts, hats, sandals or any oth er 
clothes from Spain” (Stern 1982: 53). If this was done — they promised — the revived 
huacas would turn the world around and destroy the Spaniards by sending sickness an d 
floods to their cities, the ocean rising to erase any memory of their existence (Stern 1 982* 
52—64). 

The threat posed by the Taquionqos was a serious one since, by calling for a p an , 
Andean unification of the huacas , the movement marked the beginning of a new sense 
of identity capable of overcoming the divisions connected with the traditional organi¬ 
zation of the ayulJus (family unit). In Sterns words, it marked the first time that the peo¬ 
ple of the Andes began to think of themselves as one people, as “Indians” (Stern 1982: 
59) and, in fact, the movement spread widely, reaching “as far north as Lima, as far east 
as Cuzco, and over the high puna of the South to La Paz in contemporary Bolivia 
(Spalding 1984: 246).The response came with the ecclesiastical Council held in Lima in 
1567, which established that the priests should “extirpate the innumerable superstitions, 
ceremonies and diabolical rites of the Indians.They were also to stamp out drunkenness, 
arrest witch-doctors, and above all discover and destroy shrines and talismans” connected 
with the worship of the local gods (huacas). These recommendations were lepeated at a 
synod in Quito, in 1570, where, again, it was denounced that “[t]here are famous witch 
doctors who... guard the huacas and converse with the devil” (Hemming 1970: 397). 

The huacas were mountains, springs, stones, and animals embodying the spirits of 
the ancestor. As such, they were collectively cared for, fed, and worshipped for everyone 
recognized them as the main link with the land, and with the agricultural practices cen¬ 
tral to economic reproduction. Women talked to them, as they apparently still do,in some 
regions of South America, to ensure a healthy crop (Descola 1994: 191-214). 12 
Destroying them or forbidding their worship was to attack the community, its historical 
roots, people s relation to the land, and their intensely spiritual relation to nature. This 
was understood by the Spaniards who, in the 1550s, embarked in a systematic destruc¬ 
tion of anything resembling an object of worship. What Claude Baudez and Sydney 
Picasso write about the anti-idolatry drive conducted by the Franciscans against the 
Mayas in the Yucatan also applies to the rest of Mexico and Peru. 

“Idols were destroyed, temples burned, and those who celebrated native rites and 
practiced sacrifices were punished by death;festivities such as banquets,songs, and dance*. | 
as well a s artistic and intellectual activities (painting, sculpture, observation of stars, hier^ 
glyphic writing) — suspected of being inspired by the devil — were forbidden and tho* 
who took p art in them mercilessly hunted down” (Baudez and Picasso 1992: 21). 

process went hand in hand with the teform demanded by the Spanish CroW 1 
that increased the exp] 0 it a tion of indigenous labor to ensure a better flow of bullion int o& 
coffers.Two measures were introduced for this purpose,both facilitated by the anti-idola^ 
campaign- irstl \ e quo* Q f labor that the local chiefs had to provide for the mines and ^ 
°br a jc S was vas y the enforcement of the new rule was placed under the sup ef 


226 




.p 



Andean woman forced to work in 
the obrajes, manufacturing urork- 
shops producing for (he ititerna- 
fiotnil market. Scenes by Felipe 
Cunmatt Potna de Ayala. 


vision of a local representative of the Crown (corregidote) with the power to arrest and admin¬ 
ister other forms of punishment in case of failure to comply. Further, a resettlement pro¬ 
gram (i teducciones ) was introduced removing much of the rural population into designated 
villages, so as to place it under a more direct control.The destruction of the huacas and the 
persecution of the ancestor religion associated with them was instrumental to both, since 
the teducciones gained strengdi from die demonization of die local worshipping sites. 

It was soon clear, however, that, under the cover of Christianization, people con¬ 
tinued to worsliip their gods, in the same way as they continued to return to their mil - 
pas (fields) after being removed from their homes.Thus, instead of diminishing, the attack 
on the local gods intensified with time, climaxing between 1619 and 1660 when the 
destruction of the idols was accompanied by true witch-hunts, this time targeting women 
in particular. Karen Spalding has described one of these witch-hunts conducted in the 
npartimiento of Huarochiri’, in 1660, by the priest-inquisitor Don Juan Sarmiento.As she 
sports, the investigation was conducted according to the same pattern of the witch¬ 
hunts in Europe. It began with the reading of the edict against idolatry and the preach¬ 
ing of a sermon against this sin. This was followed by secret denunciations supplied by 
anonymous informants, then came the questioning of the suspects, the use of torture to 
e *tract confessions, and then the sentencing and punishment, in this case consisting of 
public whipping, exile, and various other forms of humiliation: 


The people sentenced were brought into the public square. ... T hey were placed 
upon mules and donkeys f with wooden crosses about six inches long around 
their necks . T hey were ordered to wear these marks of humiliation from that 


22 7 



f' '}*-)<<•* rwM^ 


Scenes fioni Felipe Guaman Potna de Ayala representing the ordeal of Andean 
women and the followers of the ancestors’ religion. 

Scene 1: Public humiliation during an anti-idolatry campaign. Scene 2:Wouien 
"as spoils of conquest. "Scene 3:llte huaais, represented as the devil , speak 
through a dream. Scene 4: A member of the laki Onqoy movement until a 
drunken Indian who is seized by a huaca represented as the devil. (From Steve 
J. Stem , 1982.) 





day forward. On their heads, the religious authorities put a medieval comza, 
a cone shaped hood made of pasteboard , that was the European Catholic mark 
of infamy and disgrace. Beneath these hoods the hair was cut of — an Andean 
mark of humiliation. Those who were condemned to receive lashes had their 
backs bared. Ropes were put around their necks. They were paraded slowly 
through the streets of the town with a crier ahead of them reading out their 
crimes... After this spectacle the people were brought, back, some with their 
backs bleeding from the 20, 40 or 100 lashes with the cat-o’-nine-tails wielded 
by the village executioner (Spalding 1984: 256). 

Spalding concludes that : 

The idolatry campaigns were exemplary rituals, didactic theatre pieces directed 
to the audience as much as to the participants, much like a public hanging in 
medieval Europe (ibid.: 265) 

Their objective was to intimidate die population, to create a “space of death' 713 
where potential rebels would be so paralyzed with fear diat they would accept anything 
rather dian having to face the same ordeal of those publicly beaten and humiliated. In 
this.the Spaniards were in part successful. Faced with torture, anonymous denunciations 
and public humiliations, many alliances and friendships broke down; people’s faith in die 
effectiveness of their gods weakened, and worship turned into a secret individual prac- 
dee rather than a collective one, as it had been in pre-conquest America. 

How deeply the social fabric was affected by these terror campaigns can be 
deduced, according to Spalding, from the changes that over time took place in the nature 
of the charges. While in the 1550s people could openly acknowledge theirs and their 
community's attachment to the traditional religion, by the 1650s the crimes of which 
they were accused revolved around “witchcraft, 77 a practice now presuming a secretive 
behavior, and they increasingly resembled the accusations made against witches in 
Europe. In the campaign launched in 1660, in the Huarochiri area, for instance, “the 
crimes uncovered by the authorities... dealt with curing, finding lost goods, and other 
forms of what might be generally called village ‘witchcraft’.” Yet, the same campaign 
revealed that despite the persecution, in the eyes of the conununities,“the ancestors and 
waks (huacas) continued to be essential to their survival” (Spalding 1984: 261). 


| Women and Witches in America 

ft is not a coincidence that “[m]ost of the people convicted in die investigation of 1660 
in Huarochiri' were women (28 out of 32)’’ (Spalding 1984 : 258), in the same way as 
^men had been die main presence in theTaki Onqoy movement. It was women who 
®* 0st strongly defended the old mode of existence and opposed the new power structure. 
Plausibly because they were also the ones who were most negatively affected by it. 

Women had held a powerful position in pre-Columbian socieiies, as reflected by 
e e xistence of many important female deities in their religions. Reaching an island off 


229 


I 


the coast of theYucatan peninsula, in 1517, Hernandez de Cordoba named it Isla Muj eres 
“because the temples they visited there contained numerous female idols” (Baudez and 
Picasso 1992:17). Pre-conquest American women had their organizations, their socially 
recognized spheres of activity and, while not equal to men, 14 they were considered co n , 
plementary to them in their contribution to the family and society. 

In addition to being farmers, house-workers and weavers, in chaige of producing 
the colorful cloths worn in everyday life and during the ceremonies, they were potters 
herbalists, healers ( curanderas ), and priestesses (saceidotisas) at the service of household 
gods. In Southern Mexico, in the region of Oaxaca, they were connected with the 
duction of pulque-maguey, a sacred substance believed to have been invented by the 
gods and associated with Mayahuel, an earth-mother goddess that was “the focal point 
of peasant religion” (Taylor 1970: 31-32). 

But with the Spaniards* arrival everything changed, as they brought their baggage 
of misogynous beliefs and restructured the economy and political power in ways that 
favored men. Women suffered also at the hands of the traditional chiefs who, in order to 
maintain their power, began to take over the communal lands and expropriate the female 
members of the community from land use and water rights. Thus, within the colonial 
economy, women were reduced to the condition of servants working as maids (for the 
encomenderos, the priests, the co rregidotes) or as weavers in the obrajes. Women were also forced 
to follow their husband when they would have to do mita work in the mines — a fate 
that people recognized to be worse than death — for, in 1528, the authorities established 
that spouses could not be separated, so that women and children, from then on, could be 
compelled to do mine labor in addition to preparing food for the male workers. 

Another source of degradation for women was die new Spanish legislation which 
declared polygamy illegal, so that, overnight, men had to either separate from their wives 
or reclassify them as maids (Mayer 1981), while the children issued from these unions 
were labeled according to five different types of illegitimacy (Nash 1980:143). Ironically, 
while polygamous unions were dissolved, with the arrival of the Spaniards, no aboriginal 
woman was safe from rape or appropriation, so that many men, instead of marrying, began 
to turn to public prostitutes (Hemming 1970). In the European fantasy, America itself was 
a reclining naked woman seductively inviting the approaching white stranger. At times, it 
was the “Indian” men themselves who delivered their female kin to the priests or 
encomenderos in exchange for some economic reward or a public post. 

For all these reasons, women became the main enemies of colonial rule, refusing 
to go to Mass, to baptize their children or to cooperate in any way with the colonial 
authorities and priests. In the Andes, some committed suicide and killed their male chil¬ 
dren, presumably to prevent them from going to the mines and also out of disgust, appar¬ 
ently, for the mistreatment inflicted upon them by their male relatives (Silverblatt 1987). 
Others organized their communities and, in front of the defection of many local chie6 
who were co-opted by the colonial structure, became prieste,leaders, and guardians of 
huacas , t aking on functions which they had never previously exercised.This explains 
women were the backbone of the Taki Onqoy movement. In Peru, they also held c ° n " 
fessions to prepare people for when they would meet with the catholic prieste, advisi 11 ^ 
them as to what it should be safe to tell them and what they should not reveal. And w r hd e 


230 


f 


before the Conquest women had been in charge exclusively of the ceremonies dedicated 
to female deities, afterwards, they became assistants or principal officiants in cults dedi- 
eated to the male-ancestors-huacas —somethingthat before the Conquest had been for¬ 
bidden (Stern 1982). They also fought the colonial power by withdrawing to the higher 
planes {punas) where they could practice the old religion. As Irene Silverblatt writes: 

While indigenous men often fled the oppression of the mita and trib¬ 
ute by abandoning their conununities and going to work as yaeonas 
(quasi-serfs) in the merging haciendas, women fled to the putias, inac¬ 
cessible and very distant from the reducciones of their native conununi- 
ties. Once in the punas women rejected the forces and symbols of their 
oppression, disobeying Spanish administrators, the clergy, as well as 
their own community officials.They also vigorously rejected the colo¬ 
nial ideology, which reinforced their oppression, refusing to go to Mass, 
participate in Catholic confessions, or learn catholic dogma. More 
important, women did not just reject Catholicism; they returned to 
their native religion and, to the best that they could, to the quality of 
social relations which their religion expressed (1987: 197). 

By persecuting women as witches, then, the Spaniards targeted both the practi¬ 
tioners of the old religion and the instigators of anti-colonial revolt, while attempting to 
redefine “the spheres of activity in which indigenous women could participate” 
(Silverblatt 1987: 160). As Silverblatt points out, the concept of witchcraft was alien to 
Andean society. In Peru as well, as in every pre-industrial society, many women were 
“specialists in medical knowledge,” being familiar with the properties of herbs and plants, 
and they were also diviners. But the Christian notion of the devil was unknown to them. 
Nevertheless, by the 17 dl century, under the impact of torture, intense persecution, and 
“forced acculturation” the Andean women arrested, mostly old and poor, were accusing 
themselves of the same crimes with which women were being charged in the European 
witch trials : pacts and copulation with the devil, prescribing herbal remedies, using oint¬ 
ments, flying through the air, making wax images (Silverblatt 1987:174).They also con¬ 
fessed to worshipping stones, mountains, and springs, and feeding the huacas. Worst of all, 
they confessed to bewitcliing the authorities or other men of power and causing them 
to die (ibid. 187-88). 

As it was in Europe, torture and terror were used to force the accused to deliver 
names so that the circles of the persecution became wider and wider. But one of 
the objectives of the witch-hunt, the isolation of the witches from the rest of the com- 
Hiumcy, W as not achieved. The Andean witches were not turned into outcasts. On the 
Contrary, “they were actively sought for as contadres and their presence was required in 
formal village reunions, for in the consciousness of the colonized, witchcraft, the main¬ 
tenance of ancient traditions, and conscious political resistance became increasingly inter- 
HN'ed” (ibid.). Indeed, it was largely due to women’s resistance that the old religion was 
Preserved. Changes occurred in the meaning of the practices associated with it. Worship 
^ driven underground at the expense of its collective nature in pre-conquest tunes. But 
e h es with the mountains and the other sites of the huacas were not destroyed 



231 



I 


We find a similar situation in Central and Southern Mexico where women, pri est „ 
esses above all, played an important role in the defense of their communities and C \xU 
tures. In this region, according to Antonio Garcia de Leons Resistetuia y Utopia, from 
Conquest on, women “directed or counseled all the great anti-colonial revolts” (de Leon 
1985,Vol. 1:31). In Oaxaca, the presence of women in popular rebellions continued int 0 
the 18^ century when, in one out of four cases, they led the attack against the auth 0 rL 
ties “and were visibly more aggressive, insulting, and rebellious” (Taylor 1979: 116). I n 
Chiapas too, they were the key actors in the preservation of the old religion and the anti 
colonization struggle.Thus, when, in 1524, the Spaniards launched a war campaign to 
subjugate the rebellious Chiapanecos, it was a priestess who led the troops against them 
Women also participated in the underground networks of idol-worshippers and resisted 
that periodically were discovered by the clergy. In 1584, for instance, upon visiting 
Chiapas, the bishop Pedro de Feria was told that several among the local Indian chiefs 
were still practicing the old cults, and that they were being counseled by women, with 
whom they entertained filthy practices, such as (sabbat-like) ceremonies during which 
they mixed together and turned into gods and goddesses, the women being in charge of 
sending rain and giving wealth to those who asked for it” (de Leon 1985,Vol. 1:76). 

It is ironic, then, in view of this record, that Caliban and not his mother Sycorax, 
the witch, should be taken by Latin American revolutionaries as a symbol of the resist¬ 
ance to colonization. For Caliban could only fight his master by cursing him in the lan¬ 
guage he had learned from him, thus being dependent in his rebellion on his “master’s 
tools.” He could also be deceived into believing that his liberation could come through 
a rape and through the initiative of some opportunistic white proletarians transplanted 
in the New World whom he worshipped as gods. Sycorax, instead, a witch “so strong 
that she could control the moon, make flows and ebbs” (The Tempest, Act V, Scene 1) 
might have taught her son to appreciate the local powers — the land, the waters, the 
trees, “nature's treasuries” — and those communal ties that, over centuries of suffering, 
have continued to nourish the liberation struggle to this day, and that already haunted, 
as a promise, Caliban’s imagination: 

Be not afeard, the isle is full of noises, 

Sounds, and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not. 

Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments 
Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices, 

That if then had wak’d after long sleep. 

Will make me sleep again and then dreaming. 

The clouds methought would open, and show riches 
Ready to drop upon me, that when wak'd 
I cried to dream again (The Tempest,Act III). 


The European Witches and the "Indios" 


232 


' pid the witch-hunts in the New World have an impact on events in Europe? Or were 
jhe two persecutions simply drawing from the same pool of repressive strategies and tac¬ 
tics which the European ruling class had forged since the Middle Ages with the perse¬ 
cution of the heretics? 

I ask these questions having in mind the diesis advanced by the Italian historian 
Luciano Parinetto, who argues that witch-hunting in the New World had a major impact 
0 n the elaboration of the witchcraft ideology in Europe, as well as the chronology of the 
European witch-hunt. 

Briefly put, Parinetto’s thesis is that it was under the impact of the American expe¬ 
rience that the witch-hunt in Euiope became a mass phenomenon in the second part of 
the 16 th century. For in America, the authorities and the clergy found the confirmation for 
their views about devil-worship, coming to believe in the existence of entile populations of 
witches,a conviction which they then applied in their Christianization drive at home.Thus, 
anodier import fiom the New World, described by missionaries as “the land of the devil,” 
was the adoption by the European state of extermination as a political strategy which, presum¬ 
ably, inspired the massacre of the Huguenots and the classification of the witch-hunt start¬ 
ing in the last decades of the 16 th century (Parinetto 1998:417—35). 15 

Evidence of a crucial connection between the two persecutions is, in Parinetto’s 
view, the use made by the demonologists in Europe of the reports from the Indies. Parinetto 
focuses on Jean Bodin, but he also mentions Francesco Maria Guazzo and cites, as an exam¬ 
ple of the “boomerang effect” produced by the transplanting of the witch-hunt in America, 
the case of the inquisitor Pierre Lancre who, during a several months’ persecution in the 
region of the Labourd (Basque Country), denounced its entire population as witches. Not 
last, Parinetto cites, as evidence of his thesis, a set of themes that, in the second half of die 
16 th century, became prominent in die repertoire of witchcraft in Europe: cannibalism, the 
offering of children to the devil, the reference to ointments and drugs, and the identifica¬ 
tion of homosexuality (sodomy) with diabolism — all of which, he argues, had their matrix 
in the New World. 

What to make of this theory and where to draw the line between what is account¬ 
able and what is speculative? This is a question that future scholarsliip will have to set¬ 
tle. Here I limit myself to a few observations. 

Parinetto’s thesis is important since it helps us dispel the Eurocentrism that has 
characterized the study of the witch-hunt and can potentially answer some of the ques¬ 
tions raised by the persecution of the European witches. But its main contribution is that 
it broadens our awareness of the global character of capitalist development and makes us 
ttalize that, by the 16th century, a ruling class had formed in Europe that was at all points 
involved — practically, politically, and ideologically — in the formation of a world pro¬ 
letariat, and therefore was continually operating with knowledge gathered on an inter- 
n ational level in the elaboration of its models of domination. 

As for its claims, we can observe that the history of Europe before the Conquest 
** sufficient proof that the Europeans did not have to cross the oceans to find the will to 
exterminate those standing in their way. It is also possible to account for the chronology 
°fthe witch-hunt in Europe without resorting to the New World impact hypothesis, 
P Ce the decades between the 1560s and 1620s saw a widespread impoverislunent and 
f 0 ^ dislocations throughout most of western Europe. 



233 


I 




Top: Francesco Maria Cuazzo, COMPENDIUM 
Maleeicarum (Milan, 1608). Guazzo was one of the 
dcmonologists most influenced by the reportsfrom the 
Americas. Ihis portrait of Hatches surrounding the remains of 
bodies excamted from the ground or taken from thegallotvs is 
reminiscent of the cannibal banquet. 


234 


Bottom: Cannibals preparing their meal. Hans Sfadett's 
WAHRHAmGE HlSTURiA (Marburg 1557). 








More suggestive, in provoking a rethinking of the European witch-hunt from the 
viewpoint of witch-hunting in America, are the thematic and the iconographic corre¬ 
spondences between the two. The theme of self-ointing is one of the most revealing,^ 
the descriptions of the behavior of the Aztec or Incan priests on the occasion of human 
sacrifices evoke those found in some demonologies describing the preparations of the 
witches for the Sabbat. Consider the following passage found in Acosta, which reads the 
American practice as a perversion of the Christian habit of consecrating priests by 
anointing them: 

The idol-priests in Mexico oint themselves in the following way.They 
greased themselves from the feet to the head, including the hair... the 
substance with which they stained themselves was ordinary tea, 
because from antiquity it was always an offering to their gods and for 
this much worshipped... this was their ordinary greasing.. .except 
when they went to sacrifice... or went to the caves where they kept 
their idols when they used a different greasing to give themselves 
courage... .Tliis grease was made of poisonous substances... frogs,sala¬ 
manders, vipers... with this greasing they could turn into magicians 
( brujos ) and speak with the devil (Acosta, pp. 262-63). 

The same poisonous brew was presumably spread by the European witches on their 
bodies (according to their accusers) in order to gain the power to fly to the Sabbat. But 
it cannot be assumed that this theme was generated in the New World, as references to 
women making ointinente from the blood of toads or children’s bones are found already 
in the 15th-century trials and demonologies. ^What is plausible, instead, is that the reports 
from America did revitalize these charges, adding new details and giving more authority 
to them. 

The same consideration may serve to explain the iconographic correspondence 
between the pictures of the Sabbat and the various representations of the cannibal fam¬ 
ily and clan that began to appear in Europe in the later 16 th century, and it can account 
for many other“coincidences,” such as the fact that both in Europe and America witches 
were accused of sacrificing children to the devil (see figures pp. 234—5). 

Witch“Hunting and Globalisation 

Witch-hunting in America continued in waves through the end of the 17 th century* 
when the persistence of demographic decline and increased political and economic secu ' 
rity on the side of the colonial power-structure combined to put an end to the perse¬ 
cution. Thus, in the same region that had witnessed the great anti-idolatry campaigns of 
the 16 th and 17 th centuries, by the 18 th , the Inquisition had renounced any attempt t0 
influence the moral and religious beliefs of the population, apparently estimating t fr at 
they could no longer pose a danger to colonial rule. In the place of the persec ut1011 * 
paternalistic perspective emerged that looked at idolatry and magical practices as 
foibles of ignorant people not worthy of being taken into consideration by “la gente 
razon” (Behar 1987). From then on, the preoccupation with devil-worshipping vVoU 


236 




migrate to the developing slave plantations of Brazil, the Caribbean, and North America 
where (starting with King Philip’s Wars), the English setders justified their massacres of 
t he native American Indians by labeling them as servants of the devil (Williams and 
Williams Adelman 1978: 143). 

The Salem trials were also explained by the local authorities on this ground, with 
the argument that the New Englanders had settled in the land of die devil. As Cotton 
Mather wrote, years later, recalling the events in Salem: 

I have met with some strange things... which have made me think 
that this inexplicable war [i.e., the war made by the spirits of the invis¬ 
ible world against the people of Salem] might have its origins among 
the Indians whose chief sagamores are well known unto some of our 
captive to have been horrid sorcerers and hellish conjurers and such 
as conversed with the demons (ibid. 145). 

It is significant, in this context, that the Salem trials were sparked by the divina¬ 
tions of a West Indian slave — Tituba — who was among the first to be arrested, and 
that the last execution of a witch, in an English-speaking territory, was that of a black 
slave, Sarah Bassett, killed in Bermuda in 1730 (Daly 1978: 179). By the 18 th century, in 
fact, the witch was becoming an African practitioner of obeah, a ritual that the planters 
feared and demonized as an incitement to rebellion. 

Witch hunting did not disappear from the repertoire of the bourgeoisie with the 
abolition of slavery. On the contrary., the global expansion of capitalism through colo¬ 
nization and Christianization ensured that this persecution would be planted in the body 
of colonized societies, and, in time, would be carried out by the subjugated communi¬ 
ties in their own names and against their own members. 

In the 1840s, for instance, a wave of witch-burnings occurred in Western India. 
More women in tliis period were burned as witches than in the practice of sati (Skaria 
1997: 110).These killings occurred in the context of the social crisis caused both by the 
colonial authorities’ attack on the communities living in the forests (among whom 
women had a far liigher degree of power than in the caste societies that dwelled in the 
plains) and the colonial devaluation of female power, resulting in the decline of the wor¬ 
ship of female goddesses (ibid. 139--40). 

Witch-hunting also took hold in Africa, where it survives today as a key instrument 
cf division in many countries especially those once implicated in the slave trade, like 
Nigeria and Southern Africa, Here, too, witch-hunting has accompanied the decline in the 
status of women brought about by the rise of capitalism and the intensifying struggle for 
^sources wliich, in recent years, has been aggravated by the imposition of the neo-liberal 
a genda.As a consequence of the life-and-death competition for vanishing resources, scores 
°f Women — generally old and poor — have been hunted down in the 1990s in Northern 
Transvaal, where seventy were burned just in the first four months of 1994 (Diario de 
^ e *ico: 1994). Witch-hunts have also been reported in Kenya, Nigeria, Cameroon, in the 
P^Os and 1990s, concomitant with the imposition by the International Monetary Fund 
the World Bank of the policy of structural adjustment which has led to a new round 
^enclosures, and caused an unprecedented impoverishment among the population. 17 


237 




The Africanization of the witch is reflected in this caricature of 
a " petroleuse. ,> Note her unusual earrings, cap, and African fea¬ 
tures suggesting a kinship between the female communards and 
the "wild” A frican women who instilled in the slaves the 
courage to revolt, haunting the imagination of the French bour¬ 
geoisie as an example of political savagery. 


238 




I 


In Nigeria, by the 1980s, innocent girls were confessing to having killed dozens 
0 f people, while in other African countries petitions were addressed to governments 
begging them to persecute more strongly the witches. Meanwhile, in South Africa and 
Brazil older women were murdered by neighbors and kin under the charge of witch¬ 
craft. At the same time, a new kind of witch-belief s is presently developing, resembling 
that documented by Michael Taussig in Bolivia, whereby poor people suspect the nou¬ 
veau riches of having gained their wealth through illicit, supernatural means, and accuse 
them of wanting to transform their victims into zombies in order to put them to work 
(Ge sc hiere and Nyamnjoh 1998: 73—74). 

The witch hunts that are presently taking place in Afr ica or Latin America are 
rarely reported in Europe and the United States, in the same way as the witch-hunts of 
(he 16 th and 17 th centuries, for a long time, were of little interest to historians. Even when 
(hey are reported their significance is generally missed, so widespread is the belief that 
such phenomena belong to a far-gone era and have nothing to do with “us.” 

But if we apply to the present the lessons of the past, we realize that the reap¬ 
pearance of witch-hunting in so many parts of the world in the '80s and '90s is a clear 
sign of a process of“primitive accumulation,” which means that the privatization of land 
and other communal resources, mass impoverislunent, plunder, and the sowing of divi¬ 
sions in once-cohesive communities are again on the world agenda. “If things continue 
this way”— the elders in a Senegalese village commented to an American anthropolo¬ 
gist, expressing their fears for the future —“our children will eat each other ”And indeed 
this is what is accomplished by a witch-hunt, whether it is conducted from above, as a 
means to criminalize resistance to expropriation, or is conducted from below, as a means 
to appropriate diminishing resources, as seems to be the case in some parts ofAfrica today. 

In some countries, this process still requires the mobilization of witches, spirits, 
and devils. But we should not delude ourselves that this is not our concern. As Arthur 
Miller already saw in his interpretation of the Salem trials, as soon as we strip the per¬ 
secution of witches from its metaphysical trappings, we recognize in it phenomena that 
are very close to home. 


| Endnotes 

Actually, Sycorax — the witch — has not entered the Latin American revolution¬ 
ary imagination in the way Caliban has; she is still invisible, in the same way as the 
struggle of women against colonization has been for a long time. As for Caliban, 
what he has come to stand for has been well expressed in an influential essay by the 
Cuban writer Roberto Fernandez Retamar (1989: 5-21). 

“Our symbol is not Ariel.,, but rather Caliban. This is something that we, the mestizo 
inhabitants of these same isles where Caliban lived, see until particular clarity. Prospero invaded 
the islands, killed our ancestors, enslaved Caliban and taught him the language to make him¬ 
self understood. What else cati Caliban do but use the same language — today he has no other 
— to curse him...? From Tupac Amaru... Toussaint-Louverture, Simone Bolivar... Jose 
Marti... Fidel Castro... Che Guevara ... Frantz Fat ion — what is our history, what is our 
culture, if not the history and culture of Caliban?” (p, 14). 


239 


On this topic see also Margaret Paul Joseph who, in Caliban in Exile (1992), writes- 
“Prospeio and Caliban thereby piovide us with a powerful metaphor for colonialism 
An offshoot of this interpretation is the abstract condition of being Caliban, the vic~ 
dm of history, frustrated by the knowledge of utter powerlessness. In Latin America 
the name has been adopted in a more positive manner, for Caliban seems to represent 
the masses who are striving to rise against the oppression of the elite” (1992: 2). 

2. Reporting about the island of Hispanola, in his Historia General de Las lndias (1551) 
Francisco Lopez De Gomara could declare with utter certainty that “the main god 
which they have in this island is the devil,” and that the devil lived among women 
(de Gomara: 49). Similarly, BookV of Acosta’s Historia (1590), in which Acosta dis¬ 
cusses the religion and customs of the inhabitants of Mexico and Peru, is dedicated 
to the many forms they have of devil-worshipping, including human sacrifices. 

3. “The carib/cannibal image,” Retamar writes, “contrasts with another one, of the 
American man present in the writing of Columbus: that of Aruaco of the Greater 
Antilles — ourTaino primarily — whom he describes as peaceful, meek, and even 
timorous, and cowardly. Both visions of the American aborigene will circulate ver¬ 
tiginously through Europe....The Taino will be transformed into the paradisiacal 
inhabitant of a utopic world.... The Carib, on the other hand, will become a can¬ 
nibal — an anthropophagus,a bestial man situated at the margin of civilization who 
must be opposed to the very death. But there is less contradiction than might appear 
at first glance between the two visions “Each image corresponds to a colonial inter¬ 
vention — assuming its right to control the lives of the aborigene population of the 
Caribbean — which Retamar sees as continuing into the present. Proof of the kin¬ 
ship between these two images, Retamar points out, is the fact that both the gende 
Tainos and the ferocious Caribs were exterminated {ibid. 6-7). 

4. Human sacrifices occupy a large place in Acosta's account of the religious customs 
of the Incas and Aztecs. He describes how, during some festivities in Peru,even three 
of four hundred children, from two to four-years-old, were sacrificed — “duro e 
inhumano spectaculo,” in his words. He also describes, among others, the sacrifice 
of seventy Spanish soldiers captured in battle in Mexico and, like de Gomara, he 
states, with utter certainty, that these killings were the work of the devil (p. 250ff.) 

5. In New England, medical practitioners administered remedies “made from human 
corpses “Among the most popular, universally recommended as a panacea for every 
problem, was “Mummy,” a remedy prepared with the remains of a corpse dried or 
embalmed. As for the consumption of human blood, Gordon-Gruber writes that“it 
was the prerogative of executioners to sell the blood of decapitated criminals. It ^ 
given still warm, to epileptics or other customers waiting in crowds at the spot of 
execution ‘cup in hand’.” (1988: 407). 

6. Walter L. Williams writes: 

[T]he Spanish did not realize why the Indians were wasting away from 
disease but took it as an indication that it was part of Gods plan to wipe 
out the infidels. Oviedo concluded,“It is not without cause that God 
permits them to be destroyed. And I have no doubts that for their sins 
God’s going to do away with them very soon ” He further reasoned, in 
a letter to the king condemning the Maya for accepting homosexual 


240 


behavior: “l wish to mention it in order to declare more strongly the 
guilt for which God punishes die Indian and the reason why they have 
not been granted his mercy” (Williams 1986:138). 

7 The theoretical foundation of Sepulveda’s argument in favor of the enslavement of 
the Indians was Aristode’s doctrine of "‘natural slavery” (Hanke 1970: 16ff). 

g The mine was discovered in 1545, five years before the debate between Las Casas and 
Sepulveda took place. 

^ By the 1550s, the Spanish Crown was so dependent on the American bullion for 
its survival — needing it to pay the mercenaries that fought its wars — that it was 
impounding the loads of bullion that arrived with private sliips.These usually car¬ 
ried back the money that was set aside by those who had participated in the 
Conquest and now were preparing to retire in Spain. Thus, for a number of years, 
a conflict exploded between the expatriates and the Crown which resulted in new 
legislation limiting the formers’ power to accumulate. 

10. A powerful description of this resistance is contained in Enrique Mayer’s Tribute to 
the Household (1982), which describes the famous visitas which the encomenderos used 
to pay to the villages to fix the tribute that each community owed to them and to 
the Crown. In die mountain villages of the Andes, hours before its arrival, the pro¬ 
cession of horsemen was spotted, upon which many youths fled the village, children 
were rearranged in different homes, and resources were hidden. 

11. The name Taki Onqoy decribes the dancing trance that possessed the participants 
in the movement. 

12. Philippe Descola writes that among the Achuar, a population living in the upper 
part of Amazonia, "‘the necessary condition for effective gardening depends on 
direct, harmonious, and constant commerce with Nunkui, die tutelary spirit of gar¬ 
dens” (p. 192). This is what every woman does by singing secret songs “from the 
heart” and magical incantations to the plants and herbs in her garden, urging them 
to grow (ibid. 198). So intimate is die relation between a woman and the spirit pro¬ 
tecting her garden that when she dies “her garden follows suit, for, with the excep¬ 
tion of her unmarried daughter, no other woman would dare step into such rela¬ 
tionship diat she had not herself initiated.” As for the men, they are "‘therefore totally 
incapable of replacing their wives should the need arise.... When a man no longer 
has any woman (mother, wife, sister or daughter) to cultivate his garden and prepare 
his food, he has no choice but to kill himself” (Descola 1994:175). 

13. This is the expression used by MichaelTaussigin Shamanism, Colonialism and the Wild 
Man (1991) to stress the function of terror in the establislunent of colonial hege¬ 
mony in the Americas: 

“Whatever the conclusions we draw about how the hegemony was so speed¬ 
ily effected, we would be unwise to overlook the role of terror. And by this I mean 
us to think-through-terror, which as well as being a physiological state is also a social 
one whose special features allow it to serve as a mediator par excelletice of colonial 
hegemony: the space of death where the Indian, African, and white gave birth to a 
New World” (p. 5) (italics mine). 

Taussig adds, however, that the space oj death is also a “space of transformation” 
since “through the experience of coining close to death there well may be a more 


I 


vivid sense of life; through fear there can come not only growth of self-conscious¬ 
ness but also fragmentatio n,and then loss of self conforming to authority” {ibid.: 7) 

14. On die position of women in pie-conquest Mexico and Peru , see respectively June Nash 
(1978,1980), Irene Silverblatt (1987), and Maria Rostworowski (2001). Nash discusses 
the decline of women’s power under the Aztecs in correspondence to their transforma¬ 
tion from a “kinship based society... to a class-structured empire.” She points out tha t 
by die 15 th century, as the Aztecs had evolved into a war-driven empire, a rigid sexual 
division of labor emerged; at the same time, women (of defeated enemies) became “the 
booty to be shared by the victors” (Nash 1978:356,358). Simultaneously, female deities 
were displaced by male gods — especially the bloodthirsty Huitzilopochdi — although 
they continued to be worshipped by the common people. Still, 11 [wjomen in Aztec soci¬ 
ety had many specializations as independent craft producers of pottery and textiles, and 
as priestesses, doctors, and merchants. Spanish development policy [instead], as carried 
out by priest and ciown administrators, diverted home production into male-operated 
craft shops and mills” {ibid). 

15. Parinetto writes that the connection between the extermination of the Amerindian “sav¬ 
ages” and that of the Huguenots was very clear in the consciouness and literature of the 
French Protestants after the Night of San Bartholome, indirecdy influencing 
Montaigne’s essays on the cannibals and, in a completely diff erent wayjean Bodin’s asso¬ 
ciation of the European witches with the cannibalistic and sodomitic indios. Quoting 
French sources, Parinetto argues that this association (between the savage and the 
Huguenot) climaxed in the last decades of the 16di centuries when the massacres per¬ 
petrated by the Spaniards in America (including the slaughter in Florida, in 1565, of 
thousands of French colonists accused of being Lutherans) became “a widely used polit¬ 
ical weapon” in the struggle against Spanish dominance (Parinetto 1998:429^30). 

16. Iam referring in particular to the trials that were conducted by the Inquisition in die 
Dauphine in the 1440s, during which a number of poor people (peasants or shepherds) 
were accused of cooking children to make magic powders with their bodies (Russell 
1972: 217—18); and to the work of die Swabian Dominican Joseph Naider, Formicarius 
(1435),in which we read that witches “cook their children, boil them, eat their flesh and 
drink die soup that is left in die pot.... From the solid matter diey make a magical salve 
or ointment, the procurement of which is die third reason for child murder” {ibid.: 240). 
Russell points out that “this salve or ointment is one of the most important elements of 
witchcraft in the fifteenth century and later.” {ibid.) 

17. On “the renewed attention to witchcraft [in Africa,] conceptualized explicidy in rela¬ 
tion to modern changes,” see the December 1998 issue of the AJrican Studies Rein 
which is dedicated to this topic. In particular, see Diane Ciekawy and Peter Geschiere s 
“Containing Witchcraft: Conflicting Scenarios in Postcolonial Africa” (ibid.: 1-14). Also 
see Adam Ashforth, Witchcraft , Violettce and Dnnocracy in South Aftica (Chicago: Univ\ of 
Chicago Press, 2005) and the video documentary “Witches in Exile” produced ^ 
directed by Allison Berg (California Newsreel,2005). 


242 




IX de Tierra 




