Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


I 

\ 


t  . 


OK  Jar  Kt  r 

.os '  ax'  i  ''  ' 

aaS'  ■  _  , 

-  --  im  B  * 

.  a 

:s:  ■  ’B--  33 

33  »  ‘  s:  •• 

:!;i  .  .  r  ’ 


ij.  j 


a- 

; 

*•'  <ja; 

rii  ei:  . " 

r  " 

“ 

-ii  ax; 

;  a 

X 

..ac 

r' 

;r  ss: 

j 

..  ss:- 

’  ™  SEB* 

4BSk_ 

z:?'  '  ■  rs 

«e  .a;  t™'--"-” 

..  St. 

aa  as 

iRt 

•«lp3fiwMi»«  ^io.«  (Attn 

.:*.  I  .  ..SSS3S. 


CENTER  FOR  NUTRITION  POLICY  AND  PROMOTION 


Family  Economics  and 
Nutrition  Review 


Feature  Articles 

3  From  the  Editor 

4  The  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans — Past,  Present,  Future 

Carole  A.  Davis  and  Etta  A.  Saltos 

14  Dietary  Guidance  and  Nutrition  Promotion: 

USDA’s  Renewed  Vision  of  Nutrition  Education 

Sharyn  M.  Sutton,  William  Layden,  and  Jackie  Haven 
22  Healthy  People  2000  Midcourse  Review  and  1995  Revisions 
Summarized  by  Joanne  F.  Guthrie 


Research  Summaries 

32  Total  and  Per  Capita  Personal  Income  by  State  and  Region 
34  Home  Health  Care 

36  Health  Needs  of  Young  Children  in  Foster  Care 

38  Effects  of  Intermittent  Labor  Force  Attachment  on  Women’s  Earnings 

Regular  Items 

42  Charts  From  Federal  Data  Sources 

44  Recent  Legislation  Affecting  Families 

45  Research  and  Evaluation  Activities  in  US  DA 

48  Data  Sources 

49  Journal  Abstracts 

50  Cost  of  Food  at  Home 

51  Consumer  Prices 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

Volume  9,  Number  2 
1996 


Dan  (ilickman.  Secretary 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 


Kllen  Haas,  I  nder  Secretary 

Food,  Nutrition,  and  Consumer  .Services 

Kileen  Kennedy,  Executive  Director 

Center  tor  Nutrition  F^olicy  and  Promotion 

Jay  Hirschman,  Director 

Nutrition  Policy  and  Analysis  Staff 

Editorial  Board 


Mohamed  Abdcl-tdiany 

Rebecca  Mullis 

flniversity  of  Alabama 

Georgia  State  University 

Rhona  Applebaiim 

National  Food  I’rocessors  Association 

Suzanne  Murphy 

University  of  California-Berkeley 

.lobanna  Dwyer 

New  England  Medical  Center 
Jean  Mayer  DSDA  Human  Nutrition  Research  Center 
on  Aging  at  Tufts  University 

Donald  Rose 

Economic  Research  Service 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

Helen  .lensen 

Iowa  State  University 

Hen  Senauer 

University  of  Minnesota 

Janet  C.  King 

Westein  Human  Nutrition  Research  Center 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

Laura  Sims 

University  of  Maryland 

C.  .1.  Lee 

Kentucky  State  University 

Retia  Walker 

flniversity  of  Kentucky 

Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 


Editor 

Joan  C.  Courtless 


Feature  Articles 


Editorial  Assistant 

Jane  W.  Fleming 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review  is 
written  and  published  each  quarter  by  the 
Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion, 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  DC. 

The  Secretary  of  Agriculture  has  determined 
that  publication  of  this  periodical  is  neces¬ 
sary  in  the  transaction  of  the  public  business 
required  by  law  of  the  Department. 

This  publication  is  not  copyrighted.  Contents 
may  be  reprinted  without  permission,  but 
credit  to  Family  Economics  and  Nutrition 
Review  would  be  appreciated.  Use  of 
commercial  or  trade  names  does  not  imply 
approval  or  constitute  endorsement  by  USDA. 
Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review  is 
index^  in  the  following  databases:  AGRICOLA, 
Ageline,  Economic  Literature  Index.  ERIC, 
Family  Resources,  PAIS,  and  Sociological 
Abstracts. 

Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review  is 
for  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents. 
Subscription  price  is  $8.00  per  year  ($10.00 
for  foreign  addresses).  Send  subscription 
orders  and  change  of  address  to  Superinten¬ 
dent  of  Documents,  P.O.  Box  371954, 
Pittsburgh,  PA  15250-7954.  (See  subscrip¬ 
tion  form  on  p.  52.) 

Original  manuscripts  are  accepted  for  publica¬ 
tion  (See  "guidelines  for  authors"  on  p.  41). 
Suggestions  or  comments  concerning  this 
publication  should  be  addressed  to:  Joan  C. 
Courtless,  Editor,  Family  Economics  and 
Nutrition  Review,  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy 
and  Promotion,  USDA,  1120  20th  St.,  NW, 

Suite  200  North  Lobby.  Washington,  DC 
20036.  Phone  (202)  606-4816. 

USDA  prohibits  discrimination  in  its  programs 
on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  national  origin, 
sex,  religion,  age,  disability,  political  beliefs, 
and  marital  or  familial  status.  (Not  all  prohibited 
bases  apply  to  all  programs.)  Persons  with 
disabilities  who  require  alternative  means 
for  communication  of  program  information 
(Braille,  large  print,  audiotape,  etc.)  should 
contact  the  USDA  Office  of  Communications 
at  (202)  720-2791.  To  file  a  complaint,  write 
the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture,  Washington.  DC  20250,  or  call 
(202)  720-7327  (voice)  or  (202)  720-1127 
(TDD).  USDA  is  an  equal  employment 
opportunity  employer. 


3  From  the  Editor 

4  The  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans-Past,  Present,  Future 

Carole  A.  Davis  and  Etta  A.  Saltos 

14  Dietary  Guidance  and  Nutrition  Promotion: 

USDA’s  Renewed  Vision  of  Nutrition  Education 

Sharyn  M.  Sutton,  William  Layden,  and  Jackie  Haven 

22  Healthy  People  2000  Midcourse  Review  and  1995  Revisions 

Summarized  by  Joanne  F.  Guthrie 


Research  Summaries 

32  Total  and  Per  Capita  Personal  Income  by  State  and  Region 
34  Home  Health  Care 

36  Health  Needs  of  Young  Children  in  Foster  Care 

38  Effects  of  Intermittent  Labor  Force  Attachment  on 

Women’s  Earnings 

Regular  Items 

42  Charts  From  Federal  Data  Sources 

44  Recent  Legislation  Affecting  Families 

45  Research  and  Evaluation  Activities  in  USDA 

48  Data  Sources 

49  Journal  Abstracts 

50  Cost  of  Food  at  Home 

51  Consumer  Prices 


Volume  9,  Number  2 
1996 


Special  Theme  Issue:  Dietary  Guidelines 


From  the  editor 


An  abstract  of  the  first  two  articles  in  this  special  theme  issue  related  to  the  Dietary  Guidelines 


was  published — as  a  “commentary”  from  a  policy  perspective — in  the  March  1996  issue 
of  the  Journal  of  the  American  Dietetic  Association.  Additional  infonnation  reported  here 
includes  the  historical  background  of  the  guidelines  and  a  more  thorough  explanation  of  the 
consumer  research  used  in  developing  the  fourth  edition  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines  for 
Americans.  The  third  article  summarizes  the  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services' 
publication,  Healthy  People  2000  Midcourse  Review  and  1995  Revisions.  Among  the 
objectives  established  for  evaluating  progress  towards  the  Healthy  People  2000  goals  are 
several  related  to  nutrition  and  Dietary  Guidelines’  concepts,  which  we  believe  will  be  of 
interest  and  will  help  our  readers  acquire  a  broader  perspective  on  uses  of  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  in  national  policy  development. 


Information  and  a  limited  number  of  publications  from  the 
Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion  may  be  accessed 
electronically  at  the  following  locations: 


CNPP  Home  Page  at: 

http://www.usda.gov/fcs/cnpp.html 


Food  and  Consumer  Service  Bulletin  Board  at  FedWorld: 


By  modem:  Dial  703-321-3339 

For  Internet  FTP  services:  ftp.fedworld.gov 


\996  Vol.9  No.2 


3 


Feature  Articles 


The  Dietary  Guidelines  for 
Americans— Past,  Present,  Future 

By  Carole  A.  Davis 
Chief  Nutritionist 

Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 

Etta  A.  Saltos 
Nutritionist 

Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 


The  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans,  and  the  process  for  their  development 
are  important  to  all  people  concerned  about  food,  nutrition,  and  health 
policy  and  education.  The  information  presented  in  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
consumer  bulletin  is  the  one  voice  with  which  the  Federal  Government 
speaks  about  what  healthy  Americans  should  eat  to  stay  healthy  and  why. 
The  Dietary  Guidelines  form  the  basis  of  Federal  nutrition  policy  affecting 
food,  nutrition  education,  and  information  programs.  The  use  of  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  assures  that  dietary  advice  coming  from  Federal  sources  is 
sound,  up-to-date,  and  consistent. 


ovemment  nutritionists 
have  been  providing  advice 
to  Americans  about  what  to 
eat  for  neai'ly  a  century.  In 
looking  at  the  contemporary  Federal 
dietary  recommendations  from  a 
historical  perspective,  it  is  apparent  how 
far  we  have  come  in  food  guidance.  Yet 
at  the  same  time,  it  is  surprising  to  see 
how  much  is,  in  fact,  the  same. 

History  of  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  Food  Guides 

The  use  of  the  scientific  process  to 
develop  dietary  guidance  began  about 
100  years  ago  at  the  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture  (USDA)  with  W.O. 
Atwater,  first  director  of  the  Office 
of  Experiment  Stations  in  USDA.  He 
helped  establish  important  data  bases 
for  the  development  of  food  guidance 


including  dietary  standards  for  protein, 
calories,  and  tables  of  food  composition 
(4). 

In  a  Fanners'  Bulletin  published  in  1902, 
Atwater  emphasized  the  importance 
of  variety,  proportionality,  and 
moderation  in  healthful  eating  (5 ). 

He  stated  that,  “for  the  great  majority 
of  people  in  good  health,  the  ordinary 
food  materials... make  a  fitting  diet,  and 
the  main  question  is  how  to  use  them  in 
the  kinds  and  proportions  fitted  to  the 
actual  needs  of  the  body.”  Many  of  our 
dietary  guidance  efforts  have  focused 
on  answering  this  question. 

The  first  USDA  food  guide,  "Food  for 
Young  Children”  by  Caroline  Hunt,  a 
USDA  nutritionist,  appeared  in  1916  (9). 
It  translated  the  emerging  science  of 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


nutrition  into  national  dietary  recom¬ 
mendations  for  consumers.  The  food 
guide,  which  specified  five  food  groups, 
translated  nutrient  recommendations 
into  recommendations  for  food  intake. 

As  more  was  learned  about  vitamin 
and  mineral  requirements  and  food 
consumption  patterns  of  the  population, 
food  guides  emerged  such  as  the  “Basic 
Seven”  (1946)  and  the  “Basic  Four” 
(1958)  (15,16).  These  guides  focused  on 
choosing  enough  of  the  kinds  of  foods 
to  provide  the  nutrients  needed  for  good 
health.  These  dietary  recommendations 
outlined  what  was  called  a  “foundation 
diet”  or  core  of  foods  that  would  pro¬ 
vide  a  major  share  of  protein  and  the 
recommended  vitamins  and  minerals 
known  at  the  time  these  guides  were 
developed.  The  “Basic  Four” — milk, 
meat,  vegetable  and  fruit,  and  bread 
and  cereal — remained  the  centerpiece 
of  nutrition  education  for  the  next  two 
decades. 

New  Directions  for 
Dietary  Guidance 

By  the  1970’s,  there  was  a  growing  body 
of  research  relating  overconsumption 
of  certain  dietary  components — such 
as  fat,  saturated  fat,  cholesterol,  and 
sodium — and  the  risk  of  some  chronic 
diseases,  such  as  heart  disease  and 
stroke. 

A  new  direction  for  dietary  guidance 
was  set  in  1977  with  the  release  of  the 
Dietcuy  Goals  for  the  United  States  by 
the  U.S.  Senate  Select  Committee  on 
Nutrition  and  Human  Needs,  popularly 
known  as  the  “McGovern  Committee” 
(28).  The  Dietary'  Goals  shifted  the 
focus  from  obtaining  adequate  amounts 
of  vitamins  and  minerals  to  avoiding 
excessive  intakes  of  food  components 
that  had  been  linked  to  chronic  diseases. 


The  Committee’s  report  specified  the 
amounts  of  protein,  complex  carbohy¬ 
drates,  sugars,  fat,  cholesterol,  and  salt 
that  Americans  should  consume.  It 
generated  considerable  discussion  in 
the  scientific  community  about  the  ap¬ 
propriateness  and  utility  of  the  Dietary 
Goals.  Because  diets  developed  follow¬ 
ing  these  goals  were  so  different  from 
usual  food  patterns,  USDA  did  not 
adopt  the  goals  as  the  basis  for  its  food 
plans  and  guides.  However,  they  did 
draw  attention  to  the  need  for  guidance 
on  diet  and  health. 

In  response  to  the  Dietary  Goals,  the 
Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services 
(HHS)  asked  the  American  Society  for 
Clinical  Nutrition  (ASCN)  to  form  a 
panel  to  study  the  relationships  between 
dietary  practices  and  health  outcomes. 
The  panel’s  findings  were  presented  in 
a  1979  report  entitled  Healthy  People: 
the  Surgeon  General’s  Report  on  Health 
Promotion  and  Disease  Prevention 
(23).  The  report  suggested  that  people 
reduce  their  consumption  of  excess 
calories,  fat  and  cholesterol,  salt,  and 
sugar  to  lower  disease  rates. 

Also  in  1979,  USDA  released  a  colorful 
booklet  entitled  Food,  which  presented 
the  “Hassle-Free  Guide  to  a  Better  Diet” 
(18).  This  guide  added  a  fifth  food 
group  to  the  “Basic  Four” — the  fats, 
sweets,  and  alcohol  group.  This  food 
group  separated  foods  that  provided 
mainly  calories  with  few  other  nutrients 
from  the  other  four  food  groups.  The 
guide  highlighted  the  need  to  moderate 
the  use  of  fat,  sugars,  and  alcohol  and 
gave  special  attention  to  cutting  calories 
and  getting  adequate  dietary  fiber. 

At  about  this  same  time,  HHS  and 
USDA  began  to  develop  a  set  of  simple 
guidelines  that  would  provide  help  for 
healthy  people  as  they  made  daily  food 


By  the  1970’s,  there 
was  a  growing  body 
of  research  relating 
overconsumption 
of  certain  dietary 
components.. .and 
the  risk  of  some 
chronic  diseases, 
such  as  heart 
disease  and  stroke. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


5 


choices.  Such  guidelines,  based  in  part 
on  the  1979  Surgeon  General's  Report 
on  Health  Promotion  and  Disease 
Prevention,  were  published  in  1980 
as  the  first  edition  of  Nutrition  and 
Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for 
Americans  (19). 

The  guidelines  called  for  a  diet  of  a 
variety  of  foods  to  provide  essential 
nutrients  and  more  starch  and  fiber 
while  maintaining  recommended  body 
weight  and  moderating  dietary  constitu¬ 
ents — fat,  saturated  fat,  cholesterol, 
sugars,  sodium,  and  alcohol — that  might 
be  risk  factors  in  certain  chronic  diseases. 
These  guidelines,  even  though  they  were 
directional  rather  than  quantitative, 
were  not  totally  acceptable  to  all  nutri¬ 
tion  scientists  and  health  professionals 
and  to  certain  consumer,  commodity, 
and  food  industry  groups.  One  concern 
was  that  use  of  the  temi  “avoid”  would 
be  interpreted  to  mean  “eliminate” 
foods  that  contained  fat.  saturated  fat, 
and  cholesterol  from  the  diet. 

Later  in  1980,  a  Senate  Committee  on 
Appropriations  directed  that  a  committee 
be  established  to  review  scientific 
evidence  and  recommend  revisions 
in  the  Dietary  Guidelines  (27).  Such 
a  review  was  considered  desirable  be¬ 
cause  of  the  continued  intense  interest 
in  the  information  and  because  the  state 
of  knowledge  in  nutrition  and  dietary 
planning  continued  to  advance.  A 
Federal  Advisory  Committee  of  nine 
nutrition  .scientists  selected  from  outside 
the  Federal  Government  was  convened 
in  1983  to  review  and  make  recommen¬ 
dations  to  USDA  and  HHS  about  the 
first  edition  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
in  anticipation  of  the  next  edition. 


New  Food  Guide  Developed 

With  the  release  of  the  first  edition  of 
the  Dietary  Guidelines,  USDA  began 
work  on  developing  a  new  food  guide 
that  would  help  consumers  put  the 
guidelines  into  action  in  their  daily 
food  choices.  The  food  guide  focused 
on  how  to  make  food  choices  that  met 
the  objectives  for  nutrient  adequacy 
and  moderation  of  those  components 
related  to  risk  of  chronic  disease. 

After  development,  the  new  food  guide 
was  first  presented  as  a  food  wheel  to 
consumers  in  1984  as  part  of  a  nutrition 
course  developed  by  USDA  in  coopera¬ 
tion  with  the  American  National  Red 
Cross  (3).  The  guide  was  also  used  in 
tabular  form — “A  Pattern  for  Daily 
Food  Choices” — in  several  USDA 
publications  released  in  the  1980’s,  in¬ 
cluding  “Preparing  Foods  and  Planning 
Menus  Using  the  Dietary  Guidelines” 
(Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  Number  8. 
1989)  and  “Dietaiy  Guidelines  and 
Your  Diet”  (Home  and  Garden  Bulletin 
Number  232-1,  1986). 

Continued  Revisions  of 
the  Dietary  Guidelines 

In  1985,  HHS  and  USDA  jointly  issued 
a  revised  edition  of  the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  (20).  This  second  edition  was 
nearly  identical  to  the  first.  Some  changes 
were  made  for  clarity  in  wording;  others 
added  guidance  about  nutrition  topics 
that  became  more  prominent  after  1980, 
such  as  following  unsafe  weight-loss 
diets,  using  large-dose  supplements, 
and  drinking  of  alcoholic  beverages 
by  pregnant  women  (6).  These  changes 
reflected  advances  in  scientific  knowl¬ 
edge  of  the  associations  between  diet 
and  a  range  of  chronic  diseases.  The 


second  edition  received  wide  acceptance 
and  was  used  as  a  framework  for 
consumer  education  messages. 

In  1987,  a  Conference  Report  of  the 
House  Committee  on  Appropriations 
indicated  that  USDA,  in  conjunction 
with  HHS,  “shall  re-establish  a  Dietary 
Guidelines  Advisory  Group  on  a  periodic 
basis”  (26).  In  1989,  USDA  and  HHS 
established  a  second  advisory  committee 
that  reviewed  the  1985  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  and  made  recommendations  for 
revision  in  a  report  to  the  Secretaries 
of  Agriculture  and  HHS  (7). 

The  Surgeon  General’s  Report  on 
Nutrition  and  Health  published  in  1988 
and  the  National  Research  Council's 
report.  Diet  and  Health:  Implications 
for  Reducing  Chronic  Disease  Risk 
published  in  1989  were  key  resources 
used  by  the  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory 
Committee  (10,25 ).  Other  major  resources 
were  the  10th  edition  ( 1989)  of  the 
Recommended  Dietary  Allowances  and 
the  draft  of  a  report  by  the  Population 
Panel  of  the  National  Cholesterol 
Education  Program  (11,24). 

Another  type  of  resource,  research  on 
the  uses  and  usefulness  of  the  second 
edition  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines,  con¬ 
ducted  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin 
and  The  Pennsylvania  State  University 
under  USDA  sponsorship,  was  also  used 
by  the  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory 
Committee  (1,2,14).  This  type  of 
research  provided  the  Committee  with 
input  from  professionals  and  consumers. 

The  1988  Wisconsin  study  found  wide¬ 
spread  adoption  and  acceptance  of  the 
second  edition  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
by  Federal,  State,  and  local  professionals 
involved  in  the  communication  of  food 
and  nutrition  infonnation  (14).  The 


6 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


health  professionals  interviewed  empha¬ 
sized  the  importance  of  having  health 
and  nutrition  experts  speak  with  one 
voice  in  identifying  important  dietary 
practices.  They  also  urged  that  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  be  kept  constantly 
before  the  public,  in  a  variety  of 
presentations. 

In  the  Pennsylvania  study,  consumer 
evaluation  of  the  second  edition  (1985) 
of  the  Dietary  Guidelines  bulletin,  using 
focus  groups  and  in-depth  interviews, 
showed  that  consumers  wanted  more 
specific  food-related  guidance,  definitions 
of  technical  terms,  and  practical  tips  for 
behavior  change  strategies  (1,2). 

In  1990,  USDA  and  HHS  jointly  re¬ 
leased  the  third  edition  of  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  (21).  The  basic  tenets  of  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  were  reaffirmed, 
with  additional  refinements  reflecting 
an  increased  understanding  of  the 
science  of  nutrition  and  suggestions 
for  communicating  that  science  to 
consumers.  The  new  Dietary  Guidelines 
were  more  positive  and  more  oriented 
toward  the  total  diet.  They  also,  for  the 
first  time,  contained  suggested  numerical 
limits  for  total  fat  and  saturated  fat 
intake,  and  short  action  statements  in 
an  “Advice  for  Today”  section  (e.g., 
“check  to  see  if  you  are  at  a  healthy 
weight”)  along  with  each  guideline.  In 
response  to  consumer  evaluation  of  the 
previous  edition,  more  practical  advice 
was  given  on  how  to  implement  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  in  daily  food 
choices  by  including  the  food  guide — 

A  Pattern  for  Daily  Food  Choices — 
developed  by  USDA  in  the  early  1980’s 
(3). 


Also  in  1990,  The  National  Nutrition 
Monitoring  and  Related  Research  Act 
(7  U.S.C.  5341 )  was  passed.  This  Act 
requires  the  Secretaries  of  Agriculture 
and  Health  and  Human  Services  to 
publish  jointly  a  report  entitled  Dietary 
Guidelines  for  Americans  every  5  years. 
This  legislation  also  requires  review 
by  the  two  Secretaries  of  all  Federal 
publications  containing  dietary  advice 
for  the  general  public  to  assure  that  such 
guidance  either  is  consistent  with  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans  or 
is  based  on  medical  or  new  scientific 
knowledge,  which  is  determined  to  be 
valid  by  the  Secretaries. 

The  Food  Guide  Pyramid 
Released 

In  1992,  the  Food  Guide  Pyramid, 
which  was  developed  by  USDA  and 
supported  by  HHS,  was  released  (17). 
This  was  a  new  graphic  presentation  of 
the  original  food  guide  developed  by 
USDA  in  the  mid-1980’s.  A  separate 
publication  explaining  the  food  guide 
was  prepared,  involving  consumer 
testing  with  adults  and  children  during 
development.  The  Pyramid  graphic 
conveys  in  a  memorable  way  the  key 
messages  of  the  food  guide — variety, 
proportionality,  and  moderation.  The 
intent  of  the  Food  Guide  Pyramid  is  to 
help  consumers  put  the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  into  action. 

The  Food  Guide  Pyramid  has  been 
widely  used  by  nutrition  educators  in  a 
variety  of  materials,  including  posters, 
textbooks,  school  curricula,  and  com¬ 
puter  software,  and  has  also  been  used 
by  industry  on  food  labels.  Such  wide 
use  has  helped  to  communicate  the 
Dietary  Guidelines’  message. 


The  intent  of  the 
Food  Guide  Pyramid 

is  to  help  consumers 
put  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  into 
action. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


1 


...there  have  been 
few  changes  in  the 
overall  theme  of  the 
Dietary  Guidelines 
over  the  past 
15  years. 


Process  for  Development  of 
the  1995  Edition  of  the  Dietary 
Guidelines 

In  1994,  USDA  and  HHS  appointed 
an  1 1 -member  Dietary  Guidelines 
Advisory  Committee  to  review  the  1990 
edition  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines  and 
determine  if,  on  the  basis  of  current 
scientific  knowledge,  revisions  were 
warranted.  The  1980,  1985,  and  1990 
editions  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines  were 
issued  voluntarily  by  USDA  and  HHS. 
The  1995  edition  was  the  first  report 
mandated  by  statute. 

The  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory 
Committee  held  three  public  meetings 
from  September  1994  through  March 
1995.  All  meetings  were  announced  in 
the  Federal  Register  and  open  to  the 
public.  Oral  comments  were  received 
from  the  public  during  the  second  meeting. 
Additionally,  written  comments  were 
solicited  from  the  public.  A  search  of 
Medline  and  AGRICOLA  data  bases 
for  literature  related  to  each  guideline 
was  perfonned  and  results  were  pro¬ 
vided  to  the  Committee  by  USDA  and 
HHS  staff.  The  Committee  report  was 
submitted  to  the  Departments  in  June 
1995  (8).  Consumer  reactions  to  specific 
design  and  content  elements  of  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  were  obtained  by 
USDA-sponsored  research  done  in 
collaboration  with  HHS  (13). 

Changes  in  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
Since  1980 

Although  the  titles  of  some  of  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  have  changed  (see 
table),  there  have  been  few  changes  in 
the  overall  theme  of  the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  over  the  past  15  years.  There  are 
seven  guidelines  for  each  edition.  The 
target  audience  for  the  Dietaiy  Guide¬ 
lines  has  remained  unchanged;  they 
are  directed  to  all  healthy  Americans 
2  years  of  age  and  older. 


Eat  a  variety  of  foods.  The  title  of  this 
guideline  has  remained  the  same  for  all 
four  editions.  The  fourth  edition  added 
boxes  listing  good  food  sources  of  iron 
and  calcium.  It  also  added  infomiation 
about  the  new  Nutrition  Facts  Label, 
which  by  Federal  law  is  required  on 
most  packaged  retail  food  products.  A 
discussion  of  vegetarian  diets  was  also 
added  to  demonstrate  the  compatibility 
of  such  diets  with  the  advice  in  the 
Dietary  Guidelines  (8). 

Balance  the  food  you  eat  with  physical 
activity — maintain  or  improve  your 
weight.  The  title  of  this  guideline  has 
seen  several  changes  over  the  past  15 
years.  “Maintain  ideal  weight”  was 
changed  to  “Maintain  desirable  weight” 
in  1985  because  “ideal”  seemed  to 
imply  an  unduly  precise  understanding 
of  what  people  should  weigh  (6).  The 
title  was  changed  again  in  1990  to 
“Maintain  healthy  weight”  because  a 
procedure  was  introduced  to  help 
people  assess  their  weight  relative  to 
health  outcomes.  The  Dietary  Guidelines 
brochure  has  always  included  a  weight 
table  to  help  adults  assess  their  own 
weight  status.  The  third  edition  added 
infoimatiori  about  waist-hip  ratio  to 
help  relate  weight  to  risk  for  chronic 
diseases,  such  as  heart  disease,  certain 
types  of  cancer,  and  adult-onset  diabetes 
(7).  In  1995,  the  title  was  changed  to 
emphasize  the  importance  of  physical 
activity  and  energy  balance.  The  weight 
table  has  been  replaced  with  a  chart 
that  illustrates  weight  ranges  for  healthy 
weight,  moderate  overweight,  and 
severe  overweight.  The  suggested  list 
of  physical  activities  has  also  been 
updated  based  on  recent  research  { 12). 


8 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans 
1980-1995 


1980 

1985 

1990 

1995 

Eat  a  variety  of  foods 

Eat  a  variety  of  foods 

Eat  a  variety  of  foods 

Eat  a  variety  of  foods 

Maintain  ideal  weight 

Maintain  desirable  weight 

Maintain  healthy  weight 

Balance  the  food  you  eat  with 
physical  activity — maintain  or 
improve  your  weight 

Avoid  too  much  fat, 
saturated  fat,  and 
cholesterol 

Avoid  too  much  fat, 
saturated  fat,  and 
cholesterol 

Choose  a  diet  low  in  fat, 
saturated  fat,  and 
cholesterol 

Choose  a  diet  with  plenty  of 
grain  products,  vegetables, 
and  fruits* 

Eat  foods  with  adequate 
starch  and  fiber 

Eat  foods  with  adequate 
starch  and  fiber 

Choose  a  diet  with  plenty 
of  vegetables,  fruits,  and 
grain  products 

Choose  a  diet  low  in  fat, 
saturated  fat,  and 
cholesterol* 

Avoid  too  much  sugar 

Avoid  too  much  sugar 

Use  sugars  only  in 
moderation 

Choose  a  diet  moderate 
in  sugars 

Avoid  too  much  sodium 

Avoid  too  much  sodium 

Use  salt  and  sodium  only 
in  moderation 

Choose  a  diet  moderate  in 

salt  and  sodium 

If  you  drink  alcohol, 
do  so  in  moderation 

If  you  drink  alcoholic 
beverages,  do  so  in 
moderation 

If  you  drink  alcoholic 
beverages,  do  so  in 
moderation 

If  you  drink  alcoholic 
beverages,  do  so  in 
moderation 

*  In  the  1995  edition,  the  order  of  the  third  and  fourth  guidelines  has  been  reversed. 


Choose  a  diet  with  plenty  of  grain 
products,  vegetables,  and  fruits.  The 

title  of  this  guideline  remained  the  same 
in  1980  and  1985.  In  1990,  the  title  was 
changed,  in  part  due  to  research  that 
indicated  that  consumers  found  the 
earlier  title  to  be  too  difficult  to  follow 
f7j.  The  new  title  placed  more  emphasis 
on  foods  rather  than  nutrients.  In  1995, 
this  guideline  was  moved  up  from 
fourth  position  to  third  to  give  it  more 
prominence.  The  title  was  changed 
slightly  to  make  it  consistent  with  the 


placement  of  food  groups  within  the 
Food  Guide  Pyramid  (8).  The  text  of 
the  guideline  has  added  information  on 
food  sources  of  folate  and  carotenoids, 
and  the  relationship  of  these  nutrients  to 
health  outcomes  is  discussed. 

Choo.se  a  diet  low  in  fat,  saturated  fat, 
and  cholesterol.  The  title  of  this  guide¬ 
line  remained  the  same  in  1980  and 
1985.  In  1990,  the  title  was  changed 
to  make  clear  that  the  fat  content  of  the 
total  diet,  not  just  individual  foods,  is 


of  concern  (7).  The  word  “avoid”  was 
removed  to  eliminate  the  possible 
misunderstanding  that  fats  are  to  be 
completely  eliminated  from  the  diet. 
The  1995  edition  concurs  with  the  1990 
wording.  The  text  of  the  1995  edition 
adds  more  information  about  types 
and  sources  of  fatty  acids  in  the  diet 
(including  infomiation  about  omega-3 
polyunsaturated  and  trans  fatty  acids). 

It  continues  the  1990  recommendation 
for  upper  limits  on  total  fat  and  saturated 
fat  but  recommends  that  children 


\996  Vol.9No.2 


9 


...it  is  likely  that  the 
underlying  themes  of 
variety,  proportionality, 
and  moderation 
initiated  about 
100  years  ago  will 
apply  to  choosing 
healthful  diets  for 
many  years  to  come. 


gradually  adopt  the  guideline  from  age 
2  to  5  years,  so  that  by  the  time  children 
are  in  elementary  school,  they  should  be 
consuming  diets  that  follow  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  (8). 

Choose  a  diet  moderate  in  sugars. 

The  title  of  this  guideline  was  the  same 
in  1980  and  1985  but  changed  in  1990. 
The  term  “sugars”  was  used  to  more 
accurately  define  the  foods  of  concern 
(table  sugar  as  well  as  other  caloric 
sweeteners,  which  were  listed  in  the 
text)  (7).  The  word  “avoid”  was  removed 
to  provide  a  more  positive  tone  to  the 
guideline.  In  1995,  the  title  of  the  guide¬ 
line  changed  again  to  provide  consis¬ 
tency  with  the  other  guidelines’  focus 
on  the  total  diet  (8).  The  text  of  the  1 995 
edition  placed  more  emphasis  on  sugars 
as  a  calorie  source  and  less  on  the 
relationship  of  sugars’  intake  to  dental 
health.  The  text  also  added  the  state¬ 
ment  that  the  body  cannot  distinguish 
between  naturally  occurring  and  added 
sugars  (8). 

Choose  a  diet  moderate  in  salt  and 
sodium.  The  title  of  this  guideline 
remained  unchanged  in  1980  and  1985. 
In  1990,  the  word  “salt”  was  added 
because  it  is  the  source  of  most  sodium 
in  American  diets  and  is  better  under¬ 
stood  by  consumers  than  “sodium”  (7). 

As  with  the  fat  and  sugar  guidelines, 
the  term  “avoid”  was  deleted  to  give  the 
guideline  a  more  positive  tone.  In  1995, 
the  title  changed  again,  to  place  an  em¬ 
phasis  on  the  total  diet.  The  term  “use” 
was  removed  because  it  might  be  mis¬ 
understood  by  consumers  to  mean  that 
only  salt  added  by  them  in  cooking  or 
at  the  table  is  a  problem,  when  in  fact, 
most  of  the  sodium  in  American  diets 
is  added  as  salt  during  processing  {8). 


Information  was  added  about  the  rela¬ 
tionship  of  nutrients  other  than  sodium 
to  blood  pressure,  and  a  list  of  good 
food  sources  of  potassium  was  added. 
The  guideline  also  refers  to  the  level  of 
sodium  (2,400  mg)  listed  as  the  Daily 
Value  on  the  Nutrition  Facts  Label. 

If  you  drink  alcoholic  beverages,  do 
so  in  moderation.  In  1985,  the  title  of 
the  guideline  changed  slightly.  The  term 
“alcohol”  was  changed  to  “alcoholic 
beverages”  to  reflect  the  correct  termi¬ 
nology  (6).  The  title  of  the  guideline  has 
remained  unchanged  since  that  time. 

The  1995  edition  retains  the  definition 
of  moderate  drinking,  but  it  appears 
earlier  in  the  text  than  in  the  previous 
edition.  The  list  of  those  who  should 
not  drink  has  been  reordered  so  that 
children  and  adolescents  appear  first. 
The  text  expands  the  statement  in  the 
1990  guidelines  to  emphasize  the  food 
use  of  alcoholic  beverages  rather  than 
the  social  drug  use  (8). 

Brochure  Presentation:  Design 
and  Format  Changes 

The  “look”  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
brochure  has  changed  over  the  years. 
The  graphic  on  the  front  cover  of  the 
first  edition  included  a  number  for 
each  of  the  guidelines  (see  figure).  The 
numbers  were  eliminated  in  subsequent 
editions  because  they  led  to  misconcep¬ 
tions  that  certain  guidelines  were  more 
important  than  others.  The  second  and 
third  editions  used  an  interlocking  chain 
and  the  fourth  edition  uses  interlocking 
circles  on  the  front  cover  to  convey  the 
concept  that  all  of  the  guidelines  are 
interrelated. 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Avoid  Toi 
Saturated 
Cholestd 


Hutn^ 
Your  Hca 

Dietary  Guidelines 

Eat  a  Variety 
foods  pas'^ 


Nulrlflon  and  Your  Health 

Dietary  Guidelin 

for  Americans 


Eat  a  Varieh 
J  Ol  Foods  DOg,! 


^.^intain  w 
y/eistit  p«3' 


Maintoin 
'height  d 


/<void  TO 
Saturate* 
Cholestt 


Eat  Foo 
Adequi 
and  Ftt 


Eat  Foo 
Adequd 
and  Fid 


Avoid 


Sugai 


l/c^^  fciWon.  1985 
lie'  S^oonment  of  a 
US  Department  of  H, 


1J,S. 

U.S. 


The  Dietary  Guidelines  brochure  has 
always  included  boxes  with  practical 
"how-to"  information,  such  as  tips  for 
reducing  fat  and  sodium  intake  (19.20). 
The  third  edition  added  brief  “Advice 
for  Today”  sections  (21 ).  The  fourth 
edition  added  subtitles  to  improve  read¬ 
ability  of  the  brochure  (22). 

USDA’s  Food  Guide  made  its  first 
appearance  in  the  third  edition  of  the 
Dietary  Guidelines.  The  graphic  illustra¬ 
tion  of  the  Food  Guide,  the  Food  Guide 
Pyramid,  appears  in  the  fourth  edition. 


Future  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 

The  Dietary  Guidelines  have  provided 
a  consensus  as  to  what  makes  a  healthy 
diet.  They  also  form  the  basis  of  Federal 
nutrition  policy  affecting  food,  nutrition 
education,  and  information  programs. 
They  will  continue  to  be  reviewed  eveiy 
5  years  and  revised  as  the  science  base 
evolves.  However,  as  the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  are  revised  in  the  future,  it  is  likely 
that  the  underlying  themes  of  variety, 
proportionality,  and  moderation 
initiated  about  100  years  ago  will 
apply  to  choosing  healthful  diets  for 
many  years  to  come. 


Since  the  initial  release  of  the  Dietaiy 
Guidelines  for  Americans  in  1980,  each 
edition  has  gained  in  acceptance  and  use 
by  both  professionals  and  consumers. 
USDA  and  HHS  acknowledge  the  role 
that  nutrition  educators  and  health 
professionals  have  played  in  this  greater 
acceptance  and  use  and  look  forward  to 
their  continued  support  (14). 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


11 


References 


1 .  Achterberg,  C.L.,  Getty,  V.M..  Pugh.  M.A.,  Durrwachter,  J.G..  and  Trenkner,  L.L. 
1989.  Evaluatioit  of  “Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Amerians:” 
Part  1:  A  Women's  Sample.  Prepared  for  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Human 
Nutrition  Information  Service. 

2.  Achterberg,  C.L.,  Ozgun,  M.P.,  McCoy,  J.,  and  Getty,  V.M.  1991.  Evaluation  of 
“Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietaiy  Guidelines  for  Americans:''  Part  II:  A  Men' s 
Sample.  Prepared  for  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Human  Nutrition  Information 
Service. 

3.  American  Red  Cross.  1984.  Better  Eating  for  Better  Health:  Instructor' s  Guide  and 
Participants'  Packet.  American  National  Red  Cross.  Washington,  DC. 

4.  Atwater.  W.O.  1894.  Foods:  Nutritive  Value  and  Cost.  Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  23. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

5.  Atwater.  W.O.  1902.  Principles  of  Nutrition  and  Nutritive  Value  of  Food.  Farmers’ 
Bulletin  No.  142.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

6.  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory  Committee.  1985.  Report  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
Advisory  Committee  on  the  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans.  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Human  Nutrition  Information  Service. 

7.  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory  Committee.  1990.  Report  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
Advisory  Committee  on  the  Dietaty  Guidelines  for  Americans.  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Human  Nutrition  Information  Service. 

8.  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory  Committee.  1995.  Report  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
Advisory  Committee  on  the  Dietajy  Guidelines  for  Americans.  1995.  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture.  Agricultural  Research  Service. 

9.  Hunt,  C.L.  1916.  Food  for  Young  Children.  Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  717.  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture. 

10.  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  National  Research  Council,  Food  and  Nutrition 
Board.  1989.  Diet  and  Health:  Implications  for  Reducing  Chronic  Disease  Risk. 
National  Academy  Press.  Washington,  DC. 

1 1 .  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  National  Research  Council,  Food  and  Nutrition 
Board.  1989.  Recommended  Dietary  Allowances  (10th  ed.).  National  Academy  Press, 
Washington,  DC. 

12.  Pate.  R.R.,  Pratt,  M.,  Blair,  S.N.,  et  al.  1995.  Physical  activity  and  public  health:  A 
recommendation  from  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  and  the  American 
College  of  Sports  Medicine.  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association  273('51:402- 
407. 

1 3.  Prospect  Associates.  1995.  Dietaty  Guidelines  Focus  Group  Report.  Unpublished 
report  prepared  for  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and 
Promotion. 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


14.  Steele,  S.M.  1990.  Cooperative  Extension's  Use  of  Dietary  Guidelines  and  Your 
Diet  and  Suggestions  About  Revisions.  Unpublished  report  prepared  for  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture,  Human  Nutrition  Information  Service. 

15.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  1958.  Food  for  Fitness — A  Daily  Food  Guide. 
Leaflet  No.  424. 

16.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Bureau  of  Human  Nutrition  and  Home  Economics. 
1946.  National  Food  Guide.  AIS-53,  Rev.  of  NFC-4. 

17.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Human  Nutrition  Information  Service.  1992.  The 
Food  Guide  Pyramid.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  252. 

18.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Science  and  Education  Administration.  1979.  Food. 
Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  228. 

19.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  and  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services. 
1980.  Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans.  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  232. 


20.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  and  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services. 
1985.  Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans  (2d  ed.).  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  232. 

2 1 .  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  and  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services. 
1990.  Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietaiy  Guidelines  for  Americans  (3d  ed.).  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  232. 

22.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  and  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services. 
1995.  Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans  (4th  ed.).  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin  No.  232. 

23.  U.S.  Department  of  Health,  Education,  and  Welfare,  Public  Health  Service.  1979. 
Healths'  People:  The  Surgeon  General’ s  Report  on  Health  Promotion  and  Disease 
Prevention.  DHEW  (PHS)  Publication  No.  79-55071. 

24.  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  National  Heart,  Lung,  and  Blood 
Institute.  1990.  National  Cholesterol  Education  Program:  Report  of  the  Expert  Panel 
on  Population  Strategies  for  Blood  Cholesterol  Reduction. 

25.  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Public  Health  Service.  1988.  The 
Surgeon  General's  Report  on  Nutrition  and  Health. 

26.  U.S.  House  of  Representatives  Conference  Committee,  100th  Cong.,  1st  sess.  1987. 
H.R.  498. 

27.  U.S.  Senate  Agricultural  Appropriations  Committee.  1980.  Senate  Report  No.  96-1030 
Nov.  20. 

28.  U.S.  Senate  Select  Committee  on  Nutrition  and  Human  Needs.  1977.  Dietary  Goals 
for  the  United  States  (2d  ed.). 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


13 


Dietary  Guidance  and  Nutrition 
Promotion;  USDA’s  Renewed 
Vision  of  Nutrition  Education 

Sharyn  M.  Sutton^ 

President 

Sutton  Social  Marketing 
William  Layden 

Director,  Nutrition  Promotion  Staff 
Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 

Jackie  Haven 
Nutritionist 

Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 


The  United  States  has  a  proven  process  for  continually  developing  national 
dietary  guidance.  This  guidance,  as  reflected  in  the  bulletin  Nutrition  and 
Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans,  represents  the  Federal 
Government’s  policy  on  nutrition.  Over  the  last  1 5  years,  a  consensus  on 
diet  and  its  effect  on  health  has  developed  among  U.S.  nutrition  and  health 
experts.  This  paper  addresses  the  relationship  between  the  expert  consensus 
on  “nutrition,  diet,  and  health”  and  the  consumer.  It  distinguishes  between 
dietary  guidance  and  nutrition  promotion:  nutrition  promotion  uses  the 
Consumer-Based  Health  Communications  process  to  translate  the  science- 
based  dietary  guidance  into  consumer-oriented  messages  that  facilitate 
behavior  change.  The  implications  for  USDA’s  dietary  guidance  and  nutrition 
education  efforts  are  discussed. 


he  United  States  has  an 
established  procedure  for 
updating  national  dietary 
guidance.  Title  III  of  the 
National  Nutrition  Monitoring  and 
Related  Re.search  Act  of  1990  (7  U.S.C. 
5341 )  requires  the  Secretaries  of  Agri¬ 
culture  and  Health  and  Human  Services 
to  publish  jointly  evei^  5  years  a  report 
entitled  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans. 


'Formerly  Director,  Nutrition  Marketing  and 
Education,  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and 
Promotion. 


An  appointed  Dietary  Guidelines 
Advisory  Committee  reviews  the  most 
up-to-date  research  and  makes  recom¬ 
mendations  to  the  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture  (USDA)  and  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services  (DHHS).  After  the  recommen¬ 
dations  are  approved  and  accepted  by 
the  Departments,  the  recommended 
Dietary  Guidelines  and  explanatory  text 
are  issued  in  a  bulletin  called  Nutrition 
and  Your  Health:  Dietarv  Guidelines 


14 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


for  Americans  ( 15).  The  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  for  Americans  constitutes  the  basis 
of  the  Federal  Government’s  policy  on 
nutrition. 

Over  the  last  15  years,  a  remarkable 
degree  of  consensus  on  diet  and  its 
effect  on  health  has  developed  among 
U.S.  nutrition  and  health  experts.  The 
fourth  edition  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
for  Americans  (15),  released  by  USDA 
and  DHHS  in  1995,  provides  nutritional 
and  dietary  information  and  guidelines 
for  the  general  public,  based  on  current 
scientific  and  medical  knowledge  (9). 

Consensus  on  the  relationship  between 
diet  and  health  is  critical  to  improving 
public  health  since  diet  has  been  linked 
to  many  chronic  and  preventable  diseases: 

•  Four  of  the  leading  causes  of  death 
in  the  United  States  are  nutrition- 
related  (16).  Heart  disease,  cancer, 
stroke,  and  diabetes  account  for 
more  than  1.4  million  deaths 
annually,  nearly  two-thirds  of 

the  U.S.  total  (16). 

•  Diet  also  plays  a  role  in  other 
health  conditions  such  as  over¬ 
weight,  hypertension,  and 
osteoporosis,  which  can  reduce 
the  quality  of  life  and  productivity 
and  contribute  to  premature  death 
(16). 

Taken  together,  these  seven  diet-related 
health  condtions  cost  society  an  esti¬ 
mated  $250  billion  each  year  in  medical 
costs  and  lost  productivity  (6).  Improved 
dietary  behavior  might  prevent  at  least 
20  percent  of  the  annual  deaths  from 
heart  disease,  cancer,  stroke,  and  diabetes 
(6).  Even  small  improvements  in  average 
dietary  intakes  towards  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  for  Americans  can  be  valuable 


If  intakes  in  fat,  saturated  fat,  and 
cholesterol  improved  in  the  range  of 
0.1  to  1 .4  percent,  the  Food  and  Drug 
Administration  (FDA)  estimates 
between  $4.4  to  $26.5  billion  would 
be  saved  over  20  years  (IS). 

This  paper  addresses  the  relationship 
between  the  expert  consensus  on 
“nutrition,  diet,  and  health,”  as  reflected 
in  the  Dietary  Guidelines,  and  the 
consumer.  It  examines  how  the  state  of 
dietary  knowledge  is  transferred  to  the 
consumer  and  its  effect  on  consumer 
eating  behaviors.  The  implications  for 
USDA’s  dietary  guidance  and  nutrition 
education  efforts  are  discussed. 

Nutrition,  Health,  and 
the  Consumer 

The  Dietaiy  Guidelines  for  Americans 
is  supported  by  a  rich  history  of  science- 
based  research  and  analysis.  The  guide¬ 
lines  are  scientifically  sound  and  have 
been  remarkably  consistent  over  the 
past  20  years. 

While  we  have  achieved  success  in 
developing  science-based  dietary  guid¬ 
ance,  we  have  been  much  less  successful 
in  translating  this  guidance  for  consumers 
in  a  way  that  educates  and  motivates 
changes  in  behavior  leading  to  im¬ 
proved  health  status. 

There  is  a  serious  gap  between  the 
experts’  agreement  on  dietary  guidance 
and  the  consumer’s  understanding  of 
what  constitutes  a  healthy  diet.  It  is 
ironic  that  while  scientific  consensus 
has  never  been  stronger,  the  consumers 
we  seek  to  serve  through  this  consensus 
remain  very  confused  about  dietary 
advice.  Several  recent  national  surveys 
highlight  current  consumer  perceptions. 


•  Almost  50  percent  of  Americans 
say  that  there  is  too  much  conflict¬ 
ing  information  about  what  foods 
are  good  for  them,  and  they  are 
uncertain  about  what  to  eat  (5). 

•  The  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Anrericans 
emphasize  the  importance  of  bal¬ 
ance,  variety,  and  moderation  in 
the  total  diet — meaning  that  any 
food  can  fit  into  a  healthful  diet. 

But  70  percent  of  consumers  think 
that  they  must  eliminate  favorite 
foods  to  improve  their  diets  (1). 

The  percent  of  consumers  con¬ 
cerned  about  getting  a  balanced 
diet  dropped  from  1 1  percent  in 
1988  to  2  percent  in  1995  (4). 

•  Dietary  guidance  is  presented  in  a 
manner  that  is  frequently  misinter¬ 
preted  by  consumers  in  their 
attempt  to  build  a  healthy  diet.  For 
instance,  “consumer  unfriendly” 
advice  on  limiting  total  calories 
from  fat  to  30  percent  is  often  inter¬ 
preted  by  consumers  to  mean  that 
they  should  not  eat  individual 
foods  with  more  than  30  percent 
calories  from  fat  (1,5, 8). 

•  In  addition,  old  perceptions  and 
past  nutrition  advice  linger  in  the 
minds  of  consumers.  For  example, 
whereas  today’s  nutritionists  are 
urging  greater  consumption  of 
breads  and  grains,  40  percent  of 
Americans  still  think  that  bread 

is  fattening,  and  35  percent  say 
starches  should  be  avoided  (17). 

Consumer  confusion  and  frustration 
over  nutrition  does  not  mean  that  they 
have  given  up  or  are  incapable  of  changing 
their  eating  patterns.  On  the  contrary, 
there  are  numerous  examples  that 
reflect  the  changes  in  the  national 
nutrition  agenda. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


15 


The  increasing  focus  on  fat  in  the 
American  diet  over  the  past  decade 
is  related  to  significant  changes  in 
consumer  awareness,  concern,  and 
consumption.  Consumer  concern  over 
fat  content  in  foods  has  escalated 
dramatically.  When  asked: 

"What  is  it  about  the  nutritional 
content  of  the  foods  you  eat  that 
concerns  you  most?" 

the  number  of  consumers  who  responded 
■‘fat  content"  jumped  from  27  percent 
in  1988  to  65  percent  in  1995  (4).  Like¬ 
wise,  the  mean  percent  of  calories  from 
fat  has  declined  from  36  percent  to 
34  percent  of  total  calories,  although 
these  levels  are  still  above  dietary 
recommendations  (7). 

The  fact  is  that  many  consumers  do 
change  their  dietary  behavior — but  the 
changes  reflect  their  understanding  and 
interpretation  of  dietary  advice.  The 
ability  of  consumers  to  improve  their 
health  depends  upon  how  successfully 
they  can  translate  the  science-based 
dietai7  guidance  into  appropriate  patterns 
of  eating  behaviors  that  lead  to  improved 
nutritional  status.  For  example,  an 
attempt  to  reduce  intake  of  dietary  fat 
by  decreasing  consumption  of  red  meat 
will  be  successful  only  if  meat  consump¬ 
tion  is  not  replaced  by  an  equally  high- 
fat  substitute  (e.g.,  high-fat  salad 
dressings)  (J 1 ). 

Dietary  Guidance  and 
Nutrition  Promotion 

Changing  diet-related  behaviors  is 
more  complicated  than  once  thought. 
Although  it  is  possible  to  improve 
people’s  knowledge  and  attitudes  about 
food  and  nutrition,  this  does  not  neces- 
.sarily  result  in  the  needed  behavior 
change.  There  is  now  serious  concern 


whether  providing  consumers  with 
dietary  guidance  is  sufficient  to  support 
behavior  changes  that  lead  to  improved 
health. 

A  recent  discussion  among  nutrition 
education  leaders  from  various  national 
organizations  revealed  strongly  held 
beliefs  that  dietary  guidance  is  not  the 
best  message  for  consumers,  particu¬ 
larly  if  the  goal  is  behavior  change. 
“Consumers  do  not  even  have  to  see 
the  [Dietary]  Guidelines”  (2).  This 
contrasts  greatly  with  the  traditional 
nutrition  education  efforts  surrounding 
the  Dietary  Guidelines.  These  efforts 
centered  on  the  publication  of  a  con¬ 
sumer  bulletin.  Nutrition  and  Health: 
Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans,  that 
outlined  seven  guidelines  and  provided 
explanatory  text.  The  focus  was  the 
nutrition  science-base,  not  the  needs  of 
the  consumer.  The  nutrition  education 
leaders  conceded  that  we  currently 
know  more  about  what  a  healthy  diet 
is  than  about  how  to  get  it  across  to 
consumers.  These  professionals  stated 
that  consumer  needs  and  behavior  must 
play  a  central  role  in  driving  nutrition 
education  programs  to  produce  behavior 
change  (2). 

This  consumer  perspective  is  the  foun¬ 
dation  of  USDA’s  renewed  vision  for 
nutrition  education.  In  May  1995,  the 
Secretary  of  Agriculture  announced  a 
new  comprehensive  nutrition  promotion 
effort  to  develop  consumer-based 
messages.  USDA’s  recommitment  to 
nutrition  as  one  of  six  key  mission  areas 
is  reflected  in  the  establishment  of  the 
Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 
(CNPP)f/0)  “to  improve  the  nutri¬ 
tional  status  of  Americans  by  serving 
as  the  focal  point  within  USDA  for 
linking  scientific  research  and  the 
consumer.” 


The  term  “nutrition  promotion”  is  used 
to  differentiate  this  new  concept  from 
past  definitions  of  “nutrition  education.” 
Nutrition  promotion  is  defined  as 
the  translation  of  science-based  dietary 
guidance  into  consumer-oriented  messages 
that  facilitate  the  appropriate  eating 
behaviors.  Nutrition  promotion  is  based 
on  consumer  research.  It  follows  the 
Consumer-Based  Health  Communica¬ 
tions  approach,  which  combines  the 
science  base  with  the  consumer’s  reality 
to  create  a  message  strategy  that  is 
meaningful  and  motivating  to  the 
consumer.  The  outcome  of  nutrition 
promotion  is  a  consumer-based  message 
strategy  that  will  lead  consumers  to 
follow  science-based  dietary  guidance 
(14}. 

Consumer  Perceptions  of 
Dietary  Guidance 

Traditionally,  the  actual  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines,  as  suggested  by  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  Advisory  Committee  and 
approved  by  USDA  and  DHHS,  have 
been  issued  in  a  bulletin  called  Nutrition 
and  Your  Health:  Dietaiy  Guidelines 
for  Americans  ( 15 ). 

The  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory 
Committee  recognized  the  difficulty  of 
having  a  single  dietary  guidance  bulletin 
to  address  the  needs  of  consumers, 
policymakers,  and  health  professionals. 
The  Committee  felt  it  was  important  to 
investigate  consumers’  reaction  to  the 
guidelines  and  their  understanding  of 
nutrition  concepts  in  the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  bulletin  as  a  first  step,  preceding 
the  focus  on  nutrition  promotion  to 
improve  dietary  behavior  (3). 


16 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


The  Advisory  Committee  encouraged 
USDA  and  DHHS  to  continue  to  con¬ 
duct  consumer  research  to  determine 
understanding  of  selected  dietary  guid¬ 
ance  messages  proposed  for  the  1995 
Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans 
bulletin  (15).  The  Committee  also 
urged  the  Departments  to  use  consumer 
research  to  design  more  meaningful 
messages  to  consumers. 

In  response  to  the  Committee’s  recom¬ 
mendation,  CNPP/USDA,  in  consulta¬ 
tion  with  DHHS,  sponsored  focus  group 
research  to  gauge  consumer  reactions  to 
specific  design  and  content  elements  of 
an  early  draft  of  the  1995  bulletin  as 
published  in  the  Technical  Report  (3). 
The  following  section  describes  the 
methodology  and  research  objectives 
(12). 

Focus  Groups  on  Dietary 
Guidelines 

A  series  of  12  focus  groups  was  con¬ 
ducted  between  May  31  and  June  8, 
1995.  To  obtain  some  geographic 
dispersion,  four  groups  were  conducted 
in  each  of  three  cities — Richmond,  VA; 
Chicago,  IL;  and  San  Francisco,  CA. 
Half  of  the  12  groups  were  conducted 
with  women  and  half  with  men.  A  total 
of  107  consumers  participated.  In  addi¬ 
tion,  four  of  the  groups  were  conducted 
with  general  consumers  representing  a 
variety  of  respondents — within  broad 
age,  income,  and  education  restrictions — 
while  still  maintaining  enough  homo¬ 
geneity  so  the  groups  could  discuss  the 
issues  in  a  coherent  fashion. 

The  remaining  eight  groups  were 
conducted  with  four  target  audiences: 
African  Americans,  older  consumers, 
overweight  consumers,  and  food  stamp 
recipients.  These  target  audiences  were 
selected  because  of  their  potentially 


different  perspectives  on  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  reflecting  different  health 
and  diet  attitudes,  practices,  and  needs. 

During  the  group  discussions,  partici¬ 
pants  were  presented  with  three  versions 
of  a  mocked-up  Dietary  Guidelines 
bulletin.  Throughout  the  sessions, 
participants  were  asked  to  read  and 
respond  to  various  sections  and  formats 
of  the  mock-ups. 

Specific  research  objectives  included: 
Assessing  consumer  perceptions  and 
understanding  of  selected  dietary  con¬ 
cepts  and  key  terms  such  as  moderation; 
assessing  perceived  barriers  in  follow¬ 
ing  the  Dietary  Guidelines;  and  assess¬ 
ing  consumer  reaction  to  the  actual 
presentation  of  the  consumer  bulletin. 

As  a  qualitative  research  methodology, 
focus  groups  are  not  projectable  to  any 
population.  However,  they  provide 
valuable  insight  into  how  the  consumer 
views  the  world  and  what  the  consumer 
thinks — in  this  case — about  nutrition 
and  eating. 

Emerging  Consumer  Themes 

Findings  from  this  focus  group  research 
can  be  presented  under  four  general 
themes  with  illustrative  quotes.  All 
quotes  from  individuals  participating  in 
the  focus  groups  are  taken  from  the  un¬ 
published  report  prepared  by  Prospects 
Associates  for  USDA  (12). 

1.  Distinguish  Between  Dietary 
Guidance  AND  Nutrition  Promotion 

The  focus  group  research  found  strong 
support  for  making  the  distinction  be¬ 
tween  dietary  guidance  and  nutrition 
promotion.  Reactions  from  the  partici¬ 
pants  made  it  very  clear  that  there  is  a 
difference  between  dietary  guidance — 


The  ability  of 
consumers  to 
improve  their  health 
depends  upon  how 
successfully  they 
can  translate  the 
science-based 
dietary  guidance 
into  appropriate 
patterns  of  eating 
behaviors  that 
lead  to  improved 
nutritional  status. 


m6Vol.9No.2 


17 


...consistent 
consumer-based 
messages  leading 
to  behavior  change 
must  be  based  on 
dietary  guidance. 


what  is  known  about  nutrition — and 
nutrition  promotion — what  is  needed  by 
consumers  to  actually  follow  the 
dietary  guidance.  Both  are  critical. 

Dietary  guidance  or  nutrition  knowledge 
does  not  necessarily  give  consumers 
the  information  and/or  motivation  to 
change  their  behavior.  Nutrition  knowl¬ 
edge  does  not  in  itself  help  consumers 
to  act.  However,  it  must  be  acknow¬ 
ledged  that  consistent  consumer-based 
messages  leading  to  behavior  change 
must  be  based  on  dietary  guidance. 

We  need  both  dietary  guidance  and 
nutrition  promotion. 

“/  think  it’s  [the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  brochure]  good  for  a  brief 
overview...  I'm  going  to  need 
something  that’s  going  to  give  me 
more  about  what  I  want  to  know.” 
[African  American  male] 

“It  would  have  no  bearing  for  me. 

I  wouldn’t  even  know  how  to  begin 
controlling  it  [fat  intake[....  They 
need  to  say  that  you  need  to  eat 
these  items  that  are  lower  in  fat.” 
[General  public — male] 

“I  just  know  that  there  are  a  lot 
of  fats,  and  they  are  bad.” 

[General  public — male] 

2.  Effective  Nutrition  Promotion  Must 
Communicate  Consumer  Benefits 

The  focus  group  discussions  showed 
that  participants  were  not  motivated  by 
the  health  consequences  that  underpin 
the  Dietary  Guidelines.  Consumer  bene¬ 
fits,  as  perceived  by  the  consumer,  were 
what  mattered  most.  Therefore,  we  need 
to  identify  and  promote  benefits  for 
healthy  eating  that  have  meaning  in 
the  mind  of  the  consumer. 


“What's  in  it  for  me? ...  What 
would  I  get  out  of  it?” 

[General  public — male] 

“What's  the  pay-off  for  doing 
this?  That’ s  what  I  want  to  know.” 
[General  public — male] 

If  we  don't  offer  meaningful,  motivating 
consumer  benefits,  we  will  lose  our 
audience: 

“And  after  a  while,  you  get  so 
discouraged,  you  say  the  heck 
with  it.  I’m  just  going  to  eat  it 
and  see  what  happens.” 

[General  public — female] 

3.  Translate  Dietary  Guidelines 
Into  Consumer  Behaviors 

Consumers  need  to  have  the  dietary 
guidance  translated  into  consumer 
behaviors  or  actions.  Consumers  want 
directions;  they  want  to  know  what  to 
do. 

Dietary  Guidelines  are  not  consumer 
behaviors.  Dietary  concepts  such  as  fat 
reduction  and  consumption  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  are  not  necessarily  relevant 
to  how  consumers  live  their  lives.  They 
do  not  communicate  in  terms  that  define 
consumers’  actions. 

“Even'body  knows  you  should 
eat  more  vegetables  and  fruits. 

It’s  in  the  media.  We  know  that. 

But  it’s  about  doing  it.  Helpful 
hints  about  how  you  can  do  it.” 
[Food  Stamp — female] 

"Show  us  what  300  mg  [of  choles¬ 
terol]  looks  like.  Is  it  half  an  egg? 

Is  that  a  full  egg?  Is  that  one  and 
one-half  eggs?  Because  when  you 
see  300  mg, you  think,  what’s 300  mg? " 
[General  public — male] 


18 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


"To  be  perfectly  honest,  I  have 
never  considered  how  many 
calories  /  eat  in  a  day.  2,000  is 
just  as  arbitrary  as  saying  5,000. 

I'm  going  to  eat  what  I  want 
to  eat. " 

[General  public —  male] 

“They  keep  throwing  [the  advice] 
to  eat  vegetables  at  you — vegetables 
as  a  group.  But  a  lot  of  people  don’t 
know  things  like  avocados  are 
very  fattening.  There  are  different 
vegetables  that  people  should 
watch  out  for — instead  of  just 
having  vegetables  in  general." 

[Food  Stamp — male] 

“Just  don’t  tell  me  not  to  do 
something.  What  is  [the  fat]? 

Where  do  I  find  it?  ” 

[Overweight  group — male] 

Nutrition  concepts  and  desired  nutrition 
outcomes  (e.g.,  reduce  fat,  increase  con¬ 
sumption  of  grains,  watch  total  calories) 
are  not  consumer  behaviors.  Consumers 
don’t  reduce  fat  content;  they  remove 
the  skin  on  their  chicken.  They  don’t 
choose  a  diet  with  plenty  of  grain  products; 
they  eat  spaghetti.  We  need  to  translate 
the  Dietary  Guidelines  into  actual 
consumer  steps — much  more  in  line, 
for  example,  with  the  5  A  Day  program 
where  “eat  more  fruits  and  vegetables” 
becomes  “keep  fruits  visible”  or  “micro- 
wave  your  carrots  in  2  minutes.” 

It  is  clear  that  if  the  public  is  to  follow 
the  Dietary  Guidelines,  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  will  need  to  be  translated 
into  consumer-based  message  strategies 
and  specific  behaviors  that  consumers 
can  carry  out.  They  do  not  want  to  do 
the  math. 


4.  Express  Consumer  Behavior 
in  Consumer  Talk 

The  last  general  theme  that  emerged 
from  the  focus  groups  was  the  need  to 
speak  in  a  language  that  consumers 
understand.  Consumers  want  specifics — 
clear,  easy,  meaningful  information — 
on  what  they  should  do.  They  do  not 
have  the  time,  energy,  or  background 
to  move  from  nutrition  science  and 
recommendations  to  a  healthy  diet. 

“/  want  a  sample  dietary  plan. 

Show  me  the  foods  ]I]  should 
eat  and  how  much  fat  or  grams 
of  fat  each  food  has,  so  I  can 
visualize  [it  and]  follow  this 
type  of  diet.’’ 

[General  public — male] 

“I  think  that  people  are  eating 
them  (fruits  and  vegetables);  it’s 
just  that  they’re  not  eating  them 
properly.  It  doesn’t  say  don't  cook 
this  way.  Or  they  don’t  give  you 
suggestiotis  of  different  ways  of 
preparing  them.’’ 

[Food  Stamp  group — female] 

“They’re  talking  about  saturated 
and  unsaturated  fats,  and  mono- 
unsaturated  and  polyunsaturated. 
And  what  are  they?  What  are  these 
things  they  are  telling  me  about?” 
[Overweight  group — male] 


“Like  I  said  before,  I  believe  that 
if  you’re  going  to  put  out  advice 
you  should  have  do’ s  and  don’ ts  and 
not  “political  correctness" 
so  that  everything  is  positive.” 

[Older  Americans  group — male] 

“My  thing  is  that  I  don't  count 
calories.  I  know  that  I  eat  food 
that' s  lower  in  fat.  I  used  to  make 
the  mistake  of  counting  calories 
and  it  didn’t  work  because  that 
meant  I  ate  all  the  macaroni  and 
cheese  that  I  wanted  and  stuff 
like  that.  I  still  maintained  or 
gained  weight.” 

[African  American — female] 

It  must  also  be  recognized  that  consumers 
are  not  all  alike.  Messages  must  be 
tailored  to  varying  infomiational  and 
motivational  needs.  One  bulletin  or 
brochure  will  never  do  the  entire  job. 
This  is  shown  by  these  two  consumer 
comments  to  the  same  brochure: 

“I  knew  that  from  before,  but 
it's  pretty  clear  in  here.” 

[African  American — male] 

“Well,  [this  is  clear]  if  you 
know  Greek.” 

[Overweight  group — female] 


Information  that  is  matter  of  fact  to 
nutritionists  may  not  be  credible  or 
understandable  to  the  consumer.  For 
example,  nutritionists  know  that  it  is  the 
total  diet  that  counts,  not  an  individual 
food.  But  how  does  that  message  play 
with  the  consumer?  Is  it  perceived  as 
meaningful?  Believable?  Achievable? 
These  questions  must  be  answered  in 
order  to  craft  a  “total  diet  message.” 


1996  Vol.9No.  2 


19 


Implications  for 
Nutrition  Promotion 

The  insight  gained  from  the  focus  groups 
reinforced  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
Advisory  Committee's  recommendation 
for  a  two-pronged  approach.  USDA’s 
renewed  vision  for  nutrition  education 
must  meet  two  significant  challenges: 


•  Segment  and  target  consumers. 

There  must  be  recognition  that  one 
message  will  not  meet  the  needs  of 
the  entire  public.  We  must  have  a 
clear  and  vivid  picture  of  who  the 
target  is  and  focus  the  message  in 
a  personal  and  meaningful  way  on 
precise  audience  segments  to  create 
the  most  impact. 


Knowledge  of  what 
consumers  believe, 
value,  need,  and 
do  is  as  important 
as  our  knowledge 
of  basic  human 
nutrition. 


•  Continue  to  advance  national 
dietary  guidance  based  upon  the 
preponderance  of  scientific 
evidence,  and 

•  Promote  this  guidance  to  consumers 
in  a  way  that  will  lead  to  behavior 
change  and  ultimately  improved 
health  and  well-being. 

Moving  from  traditional  issuance  of 
dietary  guidance  to  consumer-based 
nutrition  promotion  will  require  the 
following: 

•  A  focus  on  behavior  change. 

The  ultimate  purpose  of  dietary 
guidance  and  promotion  is  to 
improve  dietary  behavior.  Behavior 
change  cannot  occur  unless  it  is 
purposef  ully  targeted  for  change. 

If  changes  in  knowledge  and 
attitude  are  the  end  points,  then 
improvements  will  not  be  achieved. 

•  A  strong  consumer  orientation. 

Understanding  and  emphasizing 
the  nutrition  behavior  from  the  con¬ 
sumer's  point  of  view  is  essential. 
Knowledge  of  what  consumers 
believe,  value,  need,  and  do  is  as 
important  as  our  knowledge  of 
basic  human  nutrition.  Speaking 
in  a  language  that  the  consumer 
understands,  in  a  way  that  is  lively, 
appealing,  and  entertaining,  is  just 
as  critical  as  communicating  the 
nutritional  facts. 


•  Use  multiple,  reinforcing, 
interactive  channels  that  actually 
reach  consumers.  Various,  inte¬ 
grated,  new  technologies  exist 
today  that  can  reach  the  target 
audience  to  deliver  the  message 
through  multiple  and  reinforcing 
media.  Again,  these  channels  must 
be  selected  from  the  consumer's 
viewpoint:  Where  will  they  be  open 
to  the  message?  When  will  they  be 
thinking  about  nutrition?  Based  on 
a  thorough  understanding  of  the 
audience — TV  advertising,  radio 
advertising,  cable  programming, 
talk  shows,  newspaper  editorials, 
lifestyle  sections,  food  columns, 
consumer  magazines,  direct 
promotions,  point  of  purchase 
programs,  promotions,  interpersonal/ 
intermediary  partnerships — all  can 
be  useful  to  deliver  and  reinforce 
the  message. 

•  Continually  refine  the  consumer 

messages.  What  works  today  may 
be  ineffective  tomorrow  because  of 
the  changes  in  our  consumers,  the 
marketplace,  the  competition,  and 
the  consumer  benefits. 


20 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


References 


1.  The  American  Dietetic  Association  and  International  Food  Information  Council.  1994.  How 
Are  Americans  Making  Food  Choices? — 1994  Update.  Prepared  by  The  Gallup  Organization. 

2.  Balch,  G.I.  1995.  Expert  Advice  on  the  Direction  of  Nutrition  Education  and  Promotion. 
Final  Report  to  the  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion.  Unpublished. 

3.  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory  Committee.  1995.  Report  of  the  Dietary  Guidelines  Advisory 
Committee  on  the  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans,  1995,  to  the  Secretary  of  Health  and 
Human  Senices  and  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Agricultural 
Research  Service. 

4.  Food  Marketing  Institute.  1995.  Trends  in  the  United  States,  Consumer  Attitudes  and  the 
Supermarket,  1995.  Conducted  by  Opinion  Research  Corporation. 

5.  Food  Marketing  Institute  and  Prevention  Magazine.  1995.  Shopping  for  Health  1995.  New 
Eood  Labels,  Same  Eating  Habits? 

6.  Frazao,  E.  1995.  The  American  Diet:  Health  and  Economic  Consequences.  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Agriculture  Information  Bulletin  No.  711. 

7.  McDowell,  M.A.,  Briefel,  R.R.,  Alaimo,  K.,  Bischof,  A.M.,  Caughman,  C.R.,  Carroll, 
M.D.,  Loria,  C.M.,  and  Johnson,  C.L.  1994.  Energy  and  macronutrient  intakes  of  persons 
ages  2  months  and  over  in  the  United  States:  Third  National  Health  and  Nutrition  Examination 
Survey,  Phase  1,  1988-91.  Advance  Data  No.  255.  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics. 

8.  National  Live  Stock  and  Meat  Board  and  MRCA  Information  Services,  Inc.  1994.  Eating 
in  America  Today:  A  Dietary  Pattern  and  Intake  Report.  Edition  II. 

9.  The  National  Nutrition  and  Related  Research  Act.  1990.  7  U.S.C.  5341. 

10. 1995  Earm  Bill:  Guidance  of  the  Administration.  Section  5:  Eood  and  Nutrition,  pp.  67-73,  1995. 

1 1.  Popkin.  B.M.,  Haines,  P.S.,  and  Reidy,  K.C.  1989.  Food  consumption  trends  of  U.S.  women: 
Patterns  and  determinants  between  1977  and  1985.  American  Journal  of  Clinical  Nutrition 
49:1307-1319. 

12.  Prospects  Associates.  1995.  Dietary  Guidelines  Eocus  Group  Report.  Unpublished  report 
prepared  for  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion. 

13.  Research  Triangle  Institute.  1991 .  Estimating  the  Benefits  of  Nutrition  Label  Changes. 

14.  Sutton,  S.M.,  Balch,  G.I.,  and  Lefebvre,  C.  1995.  Strategic  questions  for  consumer-based 
health  communications.  Public  Health  Reports  1 10('61.-725-733. 

15.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  and  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  1995. 
Nutrition  and  Your  Health:  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans.  4th  ed.  Home  and  Garden  Bulletin 
No.  232. 

16.  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  1990.  Healthy  People  2000,  National 
Health  Promotion  and  Disease  Prevention  Objectives.  DHHS  Publication  No.  (PHS)  91-50212. 

17.  Wheats  Food  Council  and  American  Bakers  Association.  1995.  What  America  Thinks 
About  Eating  Right.  A  Gallup  opinion  survey. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


21 


Healthy  People  2000  Midcourse 
Review  and  1995  Revisions 

Summarized  by  Joanne  F.  Guthrie 
Nutritionist 

Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 


hen  the  Dietary  Guidelines 
for  Americans  was  first 
published  in  1980  as  a  state¬ 
ment  of  Federal  nutrition 
policy  and  a  summary  of  the  best  knowl¬ 
edge  of  how  diet  can  promote  health, 
the  Federal  Government  was  also 
considering  new  ways  of  directing 
and  monitoring  its  health  promotion 
and  disease  prevention  activities  in 
order  to  increase  their  effectiveness. 

In  Promoting  HealthI Preventing 
Disease:  Objectives  for  the  Nation. 
published  in  1980,  the  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services  adopted 
a  management-by-objectives  planning 
process  borrowed  from  the  business 
world:  to  set  measurable  objectives  for 
improvements  in  health  status  and  risk 
reduction  for  Americans.  These  objectives 
were  broad  in  scope,  encompassing 
such  areas  as  nutrition,  substance  abuse, 
cardiovascular  risk  factor  reduction,  and 
many  others.  Several  of  the  nutrition 
objectives  were  consistent  with  the 
recommendations  or  goals  of  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  for  Americans.  Measurable 
levels  of  improvement  (target  outcomes) 
in  each  area  were  established  for 
achievement  in  1990. 

In  1990,  Healthy  People  2000:  National 
Health  Promotion  and  Disease  Prevention 
Objectives  was  published.  The  Year 
2000  objectives  built  upon  those  estab¬ 
lished  in  1980,  with  some  modification 


and  expansion.  For  example,  such 
health  problems  as  HIV  infection  and 
cancer  were  added  as  priority  areas. 

As  in  1990,  a  key  aspect  of  the  project 
was  the  development  of  measurable 
objectives  for  monitoring  improvement. 
Again,  the  nutrition  objectives  frequently 
paralleled  the  Dietary  Guidelines  for 
Americans.  For  example.  Year  2000 
nutrition  objectives  include  decreased 
consumption  of  total  fat,  saturated  fat, 
and  sodium;  increased  consumption  of 
fruits,  vegetables,  and  grains;  and  reduc¬ 
tion  in  the  prevalence  of  overweight, 
all  recommendations  of  the  Dietary 
Guidelines  for  Americans. 

The  Healthy  People  2000  Midcourse 
Review  and  1995  Revisions  provides  a 
mid-decade  report  on  progress  on  these 
objectives.  The  midcourse  review  also 
prompted  development  of  new  objectives 
in  response  to  changes  in  health  knowl¬ 
edge  and  health  concerns.  The  box  on 
pp.  24-25  presents  nutrition  objectives 
for  the  year  2000  plus  six  objectives 
from  other  priority  areas  that  have  been 
added  to  the  Nutrition  priority  area  in 
1995. 

The  findings  presented  here  tu'c  a  summary 
of  those  reported  in  the  Healthy  People 
2000  Midcourse  Review  and  1995 
Revisions.  The  data  reported  are  taken 
from  the  review  itself,  although  the 
original  data  used  to  evaluate  progress 


22 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


toward  objectives  were  obtained  from 
a  wide  range  of  public  and  private 
sources  and  compiled  for  the  review. 

Three  overarching  goals  have  been 
established  for  the  Healthy  People  2000 
initiative.  These  are  to:  (1)  increase  the 
span  of  healthy  life  for  Americans,  (2) 
reduce  health  disparities  among 
Americans,  and  (3)  achieve  access  to 
preventive  services  for  all  Americans. 
Priority  areas  for  health  improvements 
that  would  lead  to  the  achievement  of 
these  goals  have  also  been  established. 
There  are  22  priority  areas,  which  fall 
into  three  broad  categories — healtli 
promotion,  health  protection,  and 
preventive  health  services. 

Within  each  priority  area,  objectives 
have  been  set  for  improvement.  The 
objectives  are  designed  to  achieve  three 
major  types  of  outcomes — changes  in 
health  status,  changes  in  risk  reduction 
factors,  and  changes  in  health  care 
service  and  protection.  Health  status 
objectives  assess  progress  toward 
reduction  of  death,  disease,  and  disability 
and  enhancement  of  functional  status, 
including  physical,  mental,  and  social 
functioning.  Risk  reduction  objectives 
target  the  reduction  of  physical,  environ¬ 
mental,  social,  or  behavioral  risks  to 
health  (e.g.,  cigarette  smoking,  use  of 
safety  belts).  Services  and  protection 
objectives  are  aimed  at  increasing  the 
comprehensiveness,  accessibility,  and/ 
or  quality  of  preventive  services  and 
protective  interventions  (e.g.,  blood 
pressure  and  cholesterol  screening, 
testing  for  lead-based  paint  in  older 
homes). 


For  each  objective,  ba.seline  data  have 
been  obtained  whenever  possible  and 
measurable  target  figures  established 
for  accomplishment  of  the  objective. 

In  addition  to  objectives  that  address 
the  total  population,  more  than  200 
objectives  or  subobjectives  address 
needs  of  special  population  groups. 

In  all,  there  are  more  than  500  specific 
objectives  and  subobjectives  for  which 
targets  have  been  established. 

Summary  of  Progress 

Halfway  to  the  year  2000,  a  review  of 
the  available  data  indicates  that  progress 
is  being  made  in  accomplishing  many 
but  not  all  of  the  Healthy  People  2000 
goals  and  objectives.  Since  1990,  average 
life  expectancy  has  increased  by  about 
three-quarters  of  a  year,  reaching  a  new 
high  of  almost  76  years.  The  infant 
mortality  rate  declined  to  a  new  low  of 
8.5  per  1,000  live  births  in  1992.  How¬ 
ever,  international  data  indicate  that 
there  is  still  room  for  improvement: 
compared  with  other  industrialized 
nations,  the  United  States  ranks  24th 
in  infant  mortality  rates. 

Progress  toward  meeting  established 
targets  has  been  made  on  about  50 
percent  of  the  objectives.  For  1 8  percent, 
however,  the  situation  has  worsened, 
with  available  data  indicating  movement 
further  away  from  the  target;  3  percent 
show  no  change  from  the  baseline;  and 
for  the  remaining  29  percent,  evaluation 
data  are  not  yet  available. 

To  provide  a  broad  perspective  on  the 
overall  progress  of  the  initiative,  47 
“sentinel”  objectives  were  selected 
for  particular  examination  (see  table, 
pp.  26-27).  There  are  sentinel  objectives 
for  each  of  the  22  priority  areas,  allowing 
assessment  of  progress  in  each  area. 


Progress.. .has  been 
made  on  about 
50  percent  of  the 
objectives.  For 
18  percent.. .the 
situation  has 
worsened. ..3  percent 
show  no  change... 
and  for  the  remaining 
29  percent,  evaluation 
data  are  not  yet 
available. 


1996  Vol.9No.2 


23 


Nutrition  Objectives 

Health  Status 

•  Reduce  coronary  heart  disease  deaths  to  no  more  than  100  per  100,000  people. 

•  Reverse  the  rise  in  cancer  deaths  to  achieve  a  rate  of  no  more  than  130  per  100,000  people. 

•  Reduce  overweight  to  a  prevalence  of  no  more  than  20  percent  among  people  aged  20  and  older  and  no  more  than  15 
percent  among  adolescents  aged  12-19. 

•  Reduce  growth  retardation  among  low-income  children  aged  5  and  younger  to  less  than  10  percent. 

Risk  Reduction 

•  Reduce  dietary  fat  intake  to  an  average  of  30  percent  of  calories  or  less  and  average  saturated  fat  intake  to  less  than 
1 0  percent  of  calories  among  people  aged  2  and  older.  In  addition,  increase  to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  of 
people  aged  2  and  older  who  meet  the  Dietary  Guidelines’  average  daily  goal  of  no  more  than  30  percent  of  calories 
from  fat,  and  increase  to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  of  people  aged  2  and  older  who  meet  the  average  daily  goal 
of  less  than  10  percent  of  calories  from  saturated  fat. 

•  Increase  complex  carbohydrate  and  fiber-containing  foods  in  the  diets  of  people  aged  2  and  older  to  an  average  of  5  or 
more  daily  servings  for  vegetables  (including  legumes)  and  fruits,  and  to  an  average  of  6  or  more  daily  servings  for 
grain  products.  In  addition,  increase  to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  of  people  aged  2  and  older  who  meet  the 
Dietary  Guidelines'  average  daily  goal  of  5  or  more  servings  of  vegetables/fruits,  and  increase  to  at  least  50  percent 
the  proportion  who  meet  the  goal  of  6  or  more  servings  of  grain  products. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  of  overweight  people  aged  12  and  older  who  have  adopted  sound  dietary 
practices  combined  with  regular  physical  activity  to  attain  an  appropriate  body  weight. 

•  Increase  calcium  intake  so  at  least  50  percent  of  people  aged  1 1-24  and  50  percent  of  pregnant  and  lactating  women 
consume  an  average  of  3  or  more  daily  servings  of  foods  rich  in  calcium,  and  at  least  75  percent  of  children  aged  2-10 
and  50  percent  of  people  aged  25  and  older  consume  an  average  of  2  or  more  servings  daily. 

•  Decrease  salt  and  sodium  intake  so  at  least  65  percent  of  home  meal  preparers  prepare  foods  without  adding  salt,  at  least 
80  percent  of  people  avoid  using  salt  at  the  table,  and  at  least  40  percent  of  adults  regularly  purchase  foods  modified  or 
lower  in  sodium. 

•  Reduce  iron  deficiency  to  less  than  3  percent  among  children  aged  1-4  and  among  women  of  childbearing  age. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  75  percent  the  proportion  of  mothers  who  breastfeed  their  babies  in  the  early  postpartum  period  and 
to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  who  continue  breastfeeding  until  their  babies  are  5-6  months  old. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  75  percent  the  proportion  of  parents  and  caregivers  who  use  feeding  practices  that  prevent  baby  bottle 
tooth  decay. 

•  lncrea,se  to  at  least  85  percent  the  proportion  of  people  aged  18  and  older  who  use  food  labels  to  make  nutritious  food  selections. 


24 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Services  and  Protection 

•  Achieve  useful  and  informative  nutrition  labeling  for  virtually  all  processed  foods  and  at  least  40  percent  of  ready-to-eat 
carry-away  foods.  Achieve  compliance  by  at  least  90  percent  of  retailers  with  the  voluntary  labeling  of  fresh  meats, 
poultry,  seafood,  fruits,  and  vegetables. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  5,000  brand  items  the  availability  of  processed  food  products  that  are  reduced  in  fat  and  saturated  fat. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  90  percent  the  proportion  of  restaurants  and  institutional  food  service  operations  that  offer  identifiable 
low-fat,  low-calorie  food  choices,  consistent  with  the  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  90  percent  the  proportion  of  school  lunch  and  breakfast  services  and  child  care  food  services  with 
menus  that  are  consistent  with  the  nutrition  principles  in  the  Dietary  Guidelines  for  Americans. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  80  percent  the  receipt  of  home  food  services  by  people  aged  65  and  older  who  have  difficulty  in 
preparing  their  own  meals  or  are  otherwise  in  need  of  home-delivered  meals. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  75  percent  the  proportion  of  the  Nation’s  schools  that  provide  nutrition  education  from  preschool  to 
12th  grade,  preferably  as  part  of  comprehensive  school  health  education. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  of  worksites  with  50  or  more  employees  that  offer  nutrition  education  and/or 
weight  management  programs  for  employees. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  75  percent  the  proportion  of  primary  care  providers  who  provide  nutrition  assessment  and  counseling 
and/or  referral  to  qualified  nutritionists  or  dietitians. 

In  1995,  six  objectives  from  other  priority  areas  have  been  added  to  the  Nutrition  priority  area,  recognizing 

that  diet  can  contribute  to  the  prevention  of  these  diseases. 

Health  Status 

•  Reduce  stroke  deaths  to  no  more  than  20  per  100,000  people. 

•  Reduce  colorectal  cancer  deaths  to  no  more  than  13.2  per  100,000  people. 

•  Reduce  diabetes  to  an  incidence  of  no  more  than  2.5  per  1,000  people  and  a  prevalence  of  25  per  1,000  people. 

Risk  Reduction 

•  Reduce  the  prevalence  of  blood  cholesterol  levels  of  240  mg/dL  or  greater  to  no  more  than  20  percent  among  adults. 

•  Increase  to  at  least  50  percent  the  proportion  of  people  with  high  blood  pressure  whose  blood  pressure  is  under  control. 

•  Reduce  the  mean  serum  cholesterol  level  among  adults  to  no  more  than  200  mg/dL. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


25 


Healthy  People  2000:  Progress  on  47  sentinel  objectives 


Objective 


Baseline^ 

Update' 

Year 

2000 

targets 

Right 

direction 

Wrong 

direction 

22%" 

24%j 

30% 

X 

24%^" 

24%J 

15% 

26%*^ 

34%*’ 

20% 

X 

36%*’ 

34%*’ 

30% 

X 

29% 

25% 

15% 

X 

30% 

27% 

15% 

X 

9.8 

6.8 

8.5 

X 

25.2%® 

18.0% 

12.6% 

X 

6.4%® 

4.9% 

3.2% 

X 

71.1" 

74.3‘'’ 

50.0’ 

X 

56%® 

NA 

30% 

1 1.7 

11.2 

10.5 

X 

44.2%® 

39.2% 

35% 

X 

8.5 

10.3*' 

7.2 

X 

9.7^* 

9.9*^ 

8.7 

X 

NA 

NA 

75% 

65  %® 

81%*® 

85% 

X 

34.7 

29.6 

29.3 

X 

42%® 

67%* 

85% 

X 

6"’ 

5 

4 

X 

7.7"’ 

7.9 

6.0 

X 

234,000" 

93,000*’ 

0 

X 

49.7%® 

76.5% 

85% 

X 

5%* 

11.4% 

40% 

X 

li 

63 

25 

X 

54% 

52% 

35% 

X 

36%®* 

30% 

20% 

X 

No 

change 


No 

data 


Health  promotion 

1.  Physical  activity 

-  more  people  exercising  regularly 

-  fewer  people  never  exercising 

2.  Nutrition 

-  fewer  people  overweight 

-  lower  fat  diets 

3.  Tobacco 

-  fewer  people  smoking  cigarettes 

-  fewer  youth  beginning  to  smoke 

4.  Alcohol  and  other  drugs 

-  fewer  alcohol-related  automobile 
deaths  (per  100,000) 

-  less  alcohol  use  among  youth  age  12-17  years 

-  less  marijuana  use  among  youth  age  12-17  years 

5.  Pamily  planning 

-  fewer  teen  pregnancies  (per  1,000) 

-  fewer  unintended  pregnancies 

6.  Mental  health  and  mental  disorders 

-  fewer  suicides  (per  100,000) 

-  fewer  people  reporting  stress-related  problems 

7.  Violent  and  abusive  behavior 

-  fewer  homicides  (per  100,000) 

-  fewer  assault  injuries  (per  100,000) 

8.  Educational  and  community-based  programs 

-  more  schools  with  comprehensive  school 
health  education 

-  more  workplaces  with  health  promotion  programs 

Health  protection 

9.  Unintentional  injuries 

-  fewer  unintentional  injury  deaths  (per  100,000) 

-  more  people  using  automobile  safety  restraints 
10. Occupational  safety  and  health 

-  fewer  work-related  deaths  (per  100,000) 

-  fewer  work-related  injuries  (per  100,000) 

1 1.  Environmental  health 

-  no  children  with  blood  lead  25  jig/dl 

-  more  people  with  clear  air  in  their  communities 

-  more  people  in  radon-tested  houses 

12. Eood  and  drug  safety 

-  fewer  salmonella  outbreaks 

13.  Oral  health 

-  fewer  children  with  dental  caries 

-  fewer  older  people  without  teeth 


X 


X 


26 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Healthy  People  2000:  Progress  on  47  sentinel  objectives 


Year 

2000 

Right 

Wrong 

No 

No 

Objective 

Baseline‘s 

Update® 

targets 

direction 

direction 

change 

data 

Preventive  services 

14.  Maternal  and  infant  health 

-  fewer  newborns  with  low  weight 

6.9% 

7.1%'" 

5% 

X 

-  more  mothers  with  first  trimester  care 

76.0% 

77.7%’' 

90% 

X 

15.  Heart  disease  and  stroke 

-  fewer  coronary  heart  disease  deaths 

(per  100,000) 

135 

114’' 

100 

X 

-  fewer  stroke  deaths  (per  100,000) 

30.4 

26.4 

20.0 

X 

-  better  control  of  high  blood  pressure 

11%’’ 

21%’’ 

50% 

X 

-  lower  cholesterol  levels 

213mg/dl’’ 

205  mg/dl’’ 

200  mg% 

X 

16.  Cancer 

-  decrease  cancer  deaths  (per  100,000) 

134 

133 

130 

X 

-  increase  screening  for  breast  cancer  (age>50) 

25% 

55% 

60% 

X 

-  increase  screening  for  cervical  cancer  (age>18) 

88% 

95% 

95% 

X 

-  increase  fecal  occult  blood  testing  (age>50) 

17.  Diabetes  and  chronic  disabling  conditions 

27% 

30%’' 

50% 

X 

-  fewer  people  disabled  by  chronic  conditions 

9.4% 

10.6% 

8% 

X 

-  fewer  diabetes-related  deaths  (per  100,000) 

00 

CL 

38*' 

34 

X 

18.  HIV  infection 

-  slower  increase  in  HIV  infection  (per  100,000) 

19. Sexually  transmitted  diseases 

400’ 

NA 

400 

X 

300’ 

-  fewer  gonorrhea  infections  (per  100,000) 

172 

225 

X 

-  fewer  syphilis  infections  (per  100,000) 

20.  Immunization  and  infectious  diseases 

18.1* 

10.4 

10.0 

X 

-  no  measles  cases 

3058‘’-s‘ 

312'’ 

0 

X 

-  fewer  pneumonia  and  influenza  deaths  (per  100,000) 

19.9“ 

23.1’’ 

7.3 

X 

-  higher  immunization  levels  (age  19-35  months) 

21. Clinical  preventive  services 

54-64% 

67% 

90% 

X 

-  financial  barriers  to  recommended  preventive 

16%’ 

services 

17% 

0 

X 

Surveillance  and  data  systems 

22.  Surveillance  and  data  systems 

-  common  and  comparable  health  status 

indicators  in  use  across  States 

0  States 

48  States 

40  States 

X 

Total 

33 

9 

2 

3 

^  1987  unless  otherwise  noted 
1976-80 
=  1985 
1986 
^  1988 


1989  ‘'1992  P  1987-88  through  1989-90  influenza  seasons 

®  1993  unless  otherwise  noted  ‘  1994  Data  are  expressed  as  measles  cases 

1989-91  1983-1987  ■■  Rate  per  1,000 

‘  1990  "  1984 

j  1991  °  1979-80  through  1986-87  influenza  seasons 


NA  =  not  available 


1996  Vo/.  9 /Vo.  2 


27 


28 


...the  prevalence  of 
overweight  among 
adults  20-74  years 
of  age  has  increased 
from  26  percent  in 
1976-80  to  34  percent 
in  1988-91.  Over  the 
same  period,  the 
prevalence  of 
overweight  among 
adolescents 
increased  from 
15  to  21  percent. 


Physical  Activity  and  Fitness.  Progress 
on  physical  activity  and  fitness  objectives 
appears  to  be  mixed.  Objectives  moni¬ 
toring  prevalence  of  regular  moderate 
and  vigorous  physical  activity  among 
adults  have  shown  a  slight  increase. 
However,  there  has  been  no  change  in 
the  percentage  of  adults  who  state  that 
they  never  exercise.  Unfortunately,  little 
information  is  available  on  the  physical 
activity  levels  of  children.  Two  objectives 
for  which  there  are  data,  the  percentage 
of  students  in  grades  9  to  12  engaged  in 
daily  school  physical  education  and  the 
proportion  of  time  that  students  spend 
being  physically  active,  show  declines, 
however. 

Nutrition.  Data  indicate  that  the  preva¬ 
lence  of  overweight  among  adults  20-74 
years  of  age  has  increased  from  26  per¬ 
cent  in  1976-80  to  34  percent  in  1988-91. 
Over  the  same  period,  the  prevalence  of 
overweight  among  adolescents  increased 
from  15  to  21  percent.  This  substantial 
movement  away  from  the  Year  2000 
target  indicates  that  action  is  needed 
both  to  improve  diets  and  to  promote 
physical  activity. 

The  average  intake  of  dietary  fat  has 
declined  from  36  percent  of  calories 
in  1976-80  to  34  percent  in  1988-91. 
Numerous  changes  have  taken  place 
that  may  promote  further  dietary 
improvement.  Since  implementation  of 
the  Nutrition  Labeling  and  Education 
Act  in  1994,  more  understandable  and 
useful  food  labels  appear  on  most  pack¬ 
aged  foods.  More  lowfat  foods  are  now 
available  to  consumers,  a  Healthy  People 
objective  for  which  the  original  target 
has  now  been  surpassed.  An  increasing 
number  of  worksites  now  offer  nutrition 
education,  weight  management,  and/or 
physical  fitness  programs  for  employees. 


Tobacco.  Progress  continues  to  be  made 
in  reducing  cigarette  smoking.  The 
prevalence  of  cigarette  smoking  among 
the  general  adult  population  dropped 
to  25  percent  in  1993.  It  continues  to 
be  considerably  higher  among  some 
special  population  groups,  including 
American  Indians/Alaska  Natives,  blue- 
collar  workers,  and  military  personnel, 
however,  indicating  that  special  attention 
needs  to  be  paid  to  these  groups.  The 
prevalence  of  smoking  among  adults 
20-24  years  of  age,  a  proxy  measure 
of  youth  initiation  to  smoking,  dropped 
from  30  percent  in  1 987  to  27  percent  in 
1993.  One  objective  in  which  there  was 
movement  in  a  negative  direction  was  the 
percentage  of  female  cigarette  smokers 
who  quit  during  pregnancy.  Compared 
with  39  percent  who  quit  in  1985,  only 
31  percent  quit  in  1991. 

Alcohol  and  Other  Drugs.  One  of  the 

most  dramatic  areas  of  improvement  is 
the  reduction  of  alcohol-related  automo¬ 
bile  deaths.  The  reduction  by  1993  to 
6.8  deaths  per  100,000  people  exceeded 
the  Year  2000  target  of  8.5  deaths  per 
100,000.  Major  factors  in  achieving 
this  success  have  been  the  passage  and 
enforcement  of  stricter  laws  regulating 
alcohol-related  driving  issues  by  many 
States. 

In  general,  alcohol  use  appears  to  be  on 
the  decline.  Annual  per  capita  alcohol 
consumption  in  the  United  States  dropped 
from  2.54  gallons  in  1987  to  2.31  gallons 
in  1991.  Alcohol  and  marijuana  use 
declined  by  29  and  23  percent  respec¬ 
tively  between  1988  and  1993  among 
adolescents  ages  12-17  years,  based  on 
data  from  the  National  Household 
Survey  of  Drug  Abuse. 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Family  Planning.  No  recent  data  are 
available  on  the  reduction  of  unintended 
pregnancies  in  the  general  female  popu¬ 
lation.  Among  adolescents,  a  high-risk 
group  identified  for  special  attention, 
the  movement  appears  to  be  away  from 
Year  2000  targets.  Despite  prevention 
efforts  such  as  sex  education,  abstinence 
education,  life  skills  education,  and 
contraceptive  services  programs,  adoles¬ 
cent  pregnancies  continue  to  increase, 
rising  from  71.1  per  1 ,000  females  in 
1985  to  74.3  per  1,000  in  1990.  Sexual 
activity  among  young  teens  also  continues 
to  increase.  Among  15-year-old  females, 
36  percent  reported  being  sexually  active 
in  1991  compared  with  27  percent  in 
1988,  based  on  data  from  the  Youth 
Risk  Behavior  Surveillance  System. 

Mental  Health  and  Mental  Disorders. 

Suicide  rates  have  declined  from  1 1.7 
per  100,000  people  in  1987  to  1 1.2  per 
100,000  in  1993.  One  contributing 
factor  may  be  the  increase  in  persons 
seeking  treatment  for  depression  (one 
of  the  strongest  risk  factors  for  suicide) 
and  other  mental  problems.  More 
employers  are  offering  worksite  programs 
to  reduce  employees’  stress.  The  per¬ 
centage  of  adults  who  report  experiencing 
adverse  health  effects  from  stress  has 
declined  from  44.2  percent  in  1985  to 
39.2  percent  in  1993. 

Violent  and  Abusive  Behavior.  The 

United  States  ranks  first  among  industri¬ 
alized  nations  in  violent  death  rates,  and 
unfortunately,  recent  data  indicate  that 
the  trend  to  increasing  mortality  and 
morbidity  resulting  from  violent  behavior 
is  continuing.  Deaths  from  homicide 
have  increased  from  8.5  persons  per 
100,000  in  1987  to  10.3  per  100,000  in 
1992.  The  Centers  for  Disease  Control 
have  predicted  that  if  current  mortality 
trends  continue,  the  death  rate  from 
firearms  will  surpass  that  from  motor 


vehicle  crashes  in  the  United  States 
by  the  year  2003.  Injuries  from  assault 
have  also  increased  from  9.7  persons 
per  100,000  in  1986  to  9.9  per  100,000 
in  1992. 

Educational  and  Community-Based 
Programs.  A  major  area  of  success 
has  been  the  rise  in  workplaces  offering 
health  promotion  programs  on  such  topics 
as  physical  fitness,  stress  management, 
and  nutrition  and  weight  management. 
The  proportion  of  workplaces  offering 
programs  has  risen  from  65  percent  in 
1985  to  81  percent  in  1992,  almost 
reaching  the  Year  2000  target  of  85  per¬ 
cent.  For  schools,  another  potential  site 
for  health  promotion,  there  are  currently 
no  data  on  the  number  offering  compre¬ 
hensive  health  education. 

Unintentional  Injuries.  Deaths  from 
unintentional  injuries  have  dropped 
from  34.7  per  100,000  in  1987  to  29.6 
per  100,000  in  1993,  approaching  the 
Year  2000  target.  One  major  factor  in 
this  decline  has  been  the  decrease  in 
motor  vehicle  traffic  fatalities,  which 
may,  in  turn,  be  partly  attributable  to 
increased  use  of  automobile  safety 
restraints.  Currently,  two-thirds  of 
Americans  use  automobile  safety 
restraints,  and  one  State,  Hawaii,  has 
met  the  Year  2000  target  of  85  percent 
of  individuals  using  safety  restraints. 

Occupational  Safety  and  Health. 

While  work-related  injury  deaths  have 
been  reduced  to  5  per  100,000  workers 
in  1993,  nonfatal  injuries  at  work  have 
increased  slightly.  In  particular,  repeti¬ 
tive  trauma  injuries,  such  as  carpal 
tunnel  syndrome,  have  increased.  This 
increase  may  reflect  the  changing  nature 
of  the  workplace — a  rise  in  automation — 
as  well  as  heightened  awareness  and 
improved  reporting. 


Environmental  Health.  One  of  the 

most  important  improvements  in  envi¬ 
ronmental  health  has  been  the  reduction 
in  the  number  of  children  with  elevated 
blood  lead  levels  from  234,000  in  1984 
to  93,000  in  1989.  Factors  contributing 
to  this  improvement  include  increased 
use  of  unleaded  gasoline,  virtual  elimi¬ 
nation  of  U.S.  manufactured  food  and 
drink  cans  containing  lead  solder,  a  ban 
on  leaded  paint  and  lead-containing 
solder  for  residential  use,  and  the  imple¬ 
mentation  of  lead  poisoning  prevention 
programs  by  several  States  and  cities. 

Implementation  of  the  Clean  Air  Act  of 
1990  has  helped  increase  the  proportion 
of  people  living  in  counties  that  meet 
EPA  standards  for  air  pollution  from 
49.7  percent  in  1988  to  76.5  percent  in 
1993.  Some  progress  has  been  made  on 
reducing  exposure  to  radon,  with  the 
percentage  of  people  whose  homes  have 
been  tested  for  radon  increasing  from 
less  than  5  percent  in  1989  to  1 1 .4 
percent  in  1993. 

Food  and  Drug  Safety.  Progress  has 
been  made  in  reducing  Salmonella 
outbreaks  from  77  during  1989  to  63 
in  1993.  National  data  for  tracking 
infections  caused  by  E.  coll  0157:H7, 
the  bacteria  responsible  for  a  multi-State 
outbreak  of  food  poisoning  in  1993,  are 
not  currently  available.  The  1992-93 
Food  and  Drug  Administration  Food 
Safety  Survey  found  improvements  in 
household  practices  such  as  promptly 
refrigerating  perishable  foods. 

Oral  Health.  The  oral  health  of  Americans 
continues  to  improve.  The  percentage 
of  children  with  dental  caries  declined 
from  54  percent  in  1987  to  52  percent 
in  1993.  The  proportion  of  people  65 
years  and  over  with  complete  tooth  loss 
declined  from  36  percent  in  1986  to  30 
percent  in  1993. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


29 


Maternal  and  Infant  Health.  Although 
infant  mortality  rates  have  improved, 
the  prevalence  of  low  biithweight  has 
increased,  with  7.1  percent  of  babies 
born  weighing  less  than  5.3  pounds  in 
1992.  The  number  of  babies  born  with 
Fetal  Alcohol  Syndrome  has  also  in¬ 
creased,  from  0.22  per  1,000  live  births 
in  1987  to  0.67  per  1,000  in  1993, 
although  this  may  be  at  least  partly  a 
function  of  changes  in  reporting. 

More  mothers  are  receiving  prenatal 
care  in  the  first  trimester,  although  Black, 
Native  American,  and  Hispanic  mothers 
are  less  likely  thiui  otlier  mothers  to  receive 
care  in  the  first  trimester.  The  percent 
of  mothers  breastfeeding  has  increased — 
36  percent  in  1993,  compared  with  34 
percent  in  1988. 

Heart  Disease  and  Stroke.  Over  the 
past  23  years,  death  rates  from  coronary 
heart  disease  and  stroke  have  declined 
by  49  percent  and  38  percent,  respectively, 
and  ciuTent  data  indicate  that  the  decline 
in  mortality  is  continuing.  Improvements 
in  control  of  cardiovascular  risk  factors 
have  accompanied  this  decline.  Blood 
cholesterol  levels  have  dropped  and 
control  of  high  blood  pressure  has 
improved.  These  changes  seem  to  be 
attributable,  at  least  partly,  to  dietary 
and  lifestyle  change,  as  well  as  earlier 
screening,  detection,  and  treatment. 

Cancer.  Cancer  deaths  have  declined 
slightly  from  134  per  100,000  people  in 
1987  to  133  per  100,000  in  1993.  One 
major  area  of  improvement  has  been 
increased  screening  for  detection  of  such 
common  types  of  cancer  as  breast  cancer, 
cervical  cancer,  and  colon  cancer  (fecal 
occult  blood  testing). 


Diabetes  and  Chronic  Di,sabling 
Conditions.  The  proportion  of  people 
disabled  by  such  chronic  conditions  as 
back  problems,  asthma,  and  hearing  or 
visual  impairment  has  increased  from 
9.4  percent  in  1987  to  10.6  percent  in 
1993.  There  has  been  no  change  in  the 
prevalence  of  diabetes-related  deaths  or 
of  most  diabetes-related  complications, 
although  there  has  been  a  reduction  in 
lower  extremity  amputations  among 
people  with  diabetes. 

HIV  Infection.  Data  are  not  currently 
available  to  evaluate  progress  on  the 
Year  2000  target  of  slowing  the  increase 
in  HIV  infection.  In  general,  the  nature 
of  the  HIV  disease — with  its  relatively 
long  incubation  period  between  infection 
and  symptoms — creates  problems  for 
tracking  the  progress  of  AIDS  preven¬ 
tion  efforts:  most  of  the  people  who  will 
be  diagnosed  as  having  AIDS  between 
now  and  the  yeai'  2000  already  have  been 
infected.  Some  prevention-oriented 
objectives  show  progress,  including 
increased  condom  use  by  sexually 
active  unmairied  people,  the  increased 
percentage  of  injecting  drug  users  in 
drug  abuse  treatment  or  using  uncon¬ 
taminated  drug  paraphernalia,  and  the 
increased  safety  of  blood  supply. 

Sexually  Transmitted  Diseases.  Rates 
of  nearly  all  sexually  transmitted  diseases 
are  declining.  Both  gonorrhea  and  syphilis 
are  declining  in  prevalence,  with  syphilis 
rates  almost  meeting  the  Year  2000 
target.  The  rate  of  decline,  however, 
is  not  as  great  among  minorities. 

Immunization  and  Infectious  Diseases. 

The  number  of  reported  measles  cases 
declined  from  3,038  in  1988  to  312  in 
1993.  The  prevalence  of  numerous  other 
infectious  diseases,  including  mumps. 


rubella,  diphtheria,  and  poliomyelitis, 
has  declined,  and  the  proportion  of 
young  children  who  have  received  age- 
appropriate  immunizations  has  increased. 
The  introduction  of  a  new  vaccine 
reduced  the  incidence  of  Haemophilus 
influenza  meningitis  by  95  percent. 
Deaths  from  pneumonia  and  influenza 
among  adults  65  years  and  over  have 
increased  from  19.9  per  100,000  people 
in  1979-87  to  23.1  per  100,000  in  1987- 
90,  despite  increased  immunization 
levels  for  these  illnesses  among  older 
adults.  Another  area  of  concern  is  the 
rise  in  the  prevalence  of  tuberculosis, 
especially  among  minorities,  as  well  as  the 
decline  in  the  proportion  of  tuberculosis 
patients  who  complete  therapy  to  pre¬ 
vent  further  spread  of  the  disease. 

Clinical  Preventive  Services.  This 
area  encompasses  such  services  as 
immunizations,  screening  tests  for 
early  detection  of  disease,  and  patient 
education  and  counseling.  In  addition 
to  being  clinically  effective  and  having 
a  positive  impact  on  quality  of  life, 
preventive  services  have  a  strong  prob¬ 
ability  of  being  cost-effective.  There¬ 
fore,  the  increase  in  the  percentage  of 
people  under  63  years  old  without 
health  care  coverage — from  16  percent 
in  1989  to  17  percent  in  1993 — is  a 
concern. 

Surveillance  and  Data  Systems.  One 

problem  in  assessing  the  health  status 
of  Americans  and  progress  toward 
improvement  has  been  shortcomings 
in  available  data  and  the  lack  of  compa¬ 
rable  data  across  States.  In  1991,  CDC/ 
NCHS  released  a  consensus  set  of  1 8 
health  status  indicators.  Forty-eight 
States  were  using  the  indicators  in  1993, 
thus  allowing  comparability  of  informa¬ 
tion  across  States. 


30 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


New  Objectives 

As  a  part  of  the  midcourse  review 
process,  new  objectives  that  reflect 
scientific  developments,  changes  in 
health  concerns,  or  new  strategies  for 
health  promotion  have  been  added  to 
the  existing  Healthy  People  2000 
objectives.  Some  of  these  changes 
reflect  advances  in  knowledge  that 
make  it  possible  to  prevent  or  control 
health  problems  that  previously  were 
less  amenable  to  treatment. 

Several  major  studies  published  since 
1990  have  demonstrated  that  adequate 
intake  of  folic  acid  by  women  of  child¬ 
bearing  age  was  associated  with  reduced 
risk  of  giving  birth  to  a  child  with  neural 
tube  defects  (e.g.,  spina  bifida  or 
anencephaly).  Therefore,  the  Public 
Health  Service  published  a  recommen¬ 
dation  in  1992  that  all  women  capable 
of  becoming  pregnant  consume  400 
micrograms  of  folic  acid  daily.  Because 
of  this  new  information  on  how  neural 
tube  defects  may  be  reduced,  a  new 
Maternal  and  Infant  Health  objective  to 
reduce  the  incidence  of  spina  bifida  and 
other  neural  tube  defects  has  been 
added. 

Two  new  objectives  reflecting  new 
scientific  knowledge  have  been  added 
to  the  Diabetes  and  Chronic  Disabling 
Conditions  priority  area.  With  the  identi¬ 
fication  of  the  bacterium  Helicobacter 
pylori  as  a  cause  of  recurrent  and  chronic 
peptic  ulcer  disease,  effective  therapies 
have  been  developed  to  eradicate  the 
bacteria  and  prevent  the  recurrence  of 
peptic  ulcer  disease.  Consequently,  a 
new  objective  to  reduce  the  prevalence 
of  peptic  ulcer  disease  by  preventing  its 
recurrence  has  been  added.  Other  recent 
studies  indicate  that  about  90  percent  of 


diabetes-caused  blindness  could  have 
been  avoided  through  improved  detection 
and  treatment.  Therefore,  a  new  objective 
to  increase  the  number  of  people  with 
diabetes  receiving  annual  eye  exams 
that  would  detect  treatable  retinopathy 
has  been  added. 

The  growth  of  homicide  as  a  leading 
cause  of  fatal  injury  to  workers  has 
prompted  the  addition  of  an  objective 
to  reduce  deaths  from  work-related 
homicides  to  the  Occupational  Safety 
and  Health  Priority  Area.  In  the  area 
of  Violent  and  Abusive  Behavior,  an 
objective  calling  for  all  States  to  enact 
laws  requiring  proper  storage  of  firearms 
has  been  added. 

Several  new  objectives  seek  to  employ 
new'  strategies  to  control  health  problems. 
In  the  Tobacco  Priority  Area,  new  ob¬ 
jectives  have  been  added  that  advocate 
increasing  taxes  on  tobacco  products  to 
discourage  smoking  and  increasing  the 
proportion  of  health  plans  that  offer 
treatment  for  nicotine  addiction.  In  the 
Unintentional  Injuries  priority  area,  one 
new  objective  calls  for  extending,  to  all 
States,  laws  requiring  helmets  for  bicycle 
riders;  and  a  second  objective  aims  to 
increase  the  number  of  States  having  a 
graduated  driver  licensing  system  for 
drivers  and  motorcycle  riders  under 
the  age  of  18.  In  the  area  of  controlling 
HIV  Infection,  a  new  objective  has 
been  added  to  increase  the  proportion 
of  businesses  offering  an  HIV/AIDS 
workplace  program. 

In  the  area  of  Food  and  Dmg  Safety,  a 
new  objective  has  been  added  that  takes 
advantage  of  MedWatch,  the  FDA 
Medical  Products  Reporting  Program 
developed  in  1993.  It  seeks  to  increase 
the  proportion  of  adverse  event  reports 
voluntarily  sent  to  FDA  by  health 


professionals  via  this  program.  A 
second  drug  safety  objective  would 
increase  the  proportion  of  people 
receiving  information  on  new  prescrip¬ 
tions  from  prescribers  or  dispensers. 

In  addition  to  these  completely  new 
objectives,  several  pre-existing  objec¬ 
tives  have  been  modified  to  include  a 
new  emphasis  on  population  subgroups 
of  particular  concern.  These  changes 
reflect  both  the  ongoing  concern  about 
health  disparities  in  America  and  the 
growth  of  more  detailed  information 
on  health  characteristics  of  specific 
population  subgroups. 

Continuing  Progress 

At  the  mid-point  of  the  Healthy  People 
2000  initiative,  appropriate  strategies 
for  continuing  progress  toward  the  Year 
2000  goals  and  objectives  must  also  be 
considered.  The  initiative  has  employed 
a  broad-based  approach  toward  accom¬ 
plishment  of  its  aims,  with  State  and 
local  communities,  as  well  as  private 
organizations,  playing  important  roles 
in  the  development  and  implementation 
of  intervention  programs  and  strategies. 
Today,  most  States  have  developed 
their  own  disease  prevention  and  health 
promotion  objectives  as  a  means  of 
setting  public  health  priorities  and  as 
a  framework  for  developing  and 
supporting  legislation.  To  continue 
making  progress  tow'ard  the  Year  2000 
targets,  this  broad-based  approach — 
with  interventions  at  the  family,  school, 
worksite,  and  community  levels — must 
be  continued. 


Source:  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services.  Public  Health  Service,  Healthy  People 
2000  Midcowse  Review  and  1995  Revisions. 


1996  Vol.  9  No.  2 


31 


Research  Summaries 


Total  and  Per 
Capita  Personal 
Income  by  State 
and  Region 

In  1 994,  total  personal  income  in  the 
Nation  increased  5.9  percent  after  in¬ 
creasing  4.4  percent  in  1993.  Earnings 
increased  faster  in  1994  than  in  1993  in 
all  major  industries  except  the  Federal 
Government. 

Per  capita  personal  income  in  the 
Nation  increased  4.9  percent  in  1994 
after  increasing  3.3  percent  in  1993  and 


4.9  percent  in  1992.  The  increases  in 
per  capita  income  have  exceeded  the 
increases  in  U.S.  prices  (as  measured 
by  the  fixed-weighted  price  index  for 
personal  consumption  expenditures) 
for  3  consecutive  years.  In  1994,  prices 
increased  2.4  percent,  the  smallest  in¬ 
crease  since  1966.  By  State,  increases 
in  per  capita  income  in  1994  exceeded 
or  equaled  2.4  percent  in  all  50  States. 

In  12  States  (indicated  in  dark  gray  in 
the  figure),  increases  in  per  capita 
personal  income  were  at  least  1.0  per¬ 
centage  point  higher  than  the  national 
average.  Eleven  of  these  States  had 
below-average  increases  in  population 
(see  table). 


Per  capita  personal  income;  Percent  change,  by  State  and  region, 
1993-94 


Source:  Tran,  D.D.  and  Friedenberg,  H.L.,  1995,  Total  and  per  capita  personal  income  by  State 
and  region.  Survey  of  Current  Business  75(4):58-61. 


32 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Per  capita  personal  income  for  selected  States  and  the  United  States, 
1993-94 

In  Mississippi,  West  Virginia,  and 
Louisiana,  above-average  increases  in 
earnings  from  farm  income,  construe- 
tion,  mining,  transportation  and  public 
utilities,  services,  and  government  led 
to  above-average  increases  in  per  capita 
personal  income. 

Rank 

Percent  change 

Per  capita 
personal  income 

Population 

Fastest  growing  States: 

In  eight  States  (indicated  in  light  gray 

1 

Iowa 

10.9 

0.3 

in  the  figure),  increases  in  per  capita 

2 

South  Dakota 

9.5 

.7 

personal  income  in  1994  were  at  least 

3 

North  Dakota 

8.6 

.2 

1 .0  percentage  point  less  than  the  U.S. 

4 

Michigan 

8.5 

.4 

average.  Seven  of  these  States  had 

5 

Mississippi 

7.4 

1.1 

below-average  increases  in  personal 

6 

Minnesota 

7.0 

.9 

income;  seven  had  above-average 

7 

West  Virginia 

6.4 

.2 

increases  in  population  (see  table). 

8 

Ohio 

6.3 

.4 

In  Washington,  Texas,  Wyoming,  and 

9 

Louisiana 

6.3 

.6 

Montana,  personal  income  growth  was 

10 

Wisconsin 

6.1 

.7 

slowed  by  declines  in  fami  income. 

11 

Indiana 

6.1 

.8 

In  Alaska,  California,  and  Hawaii, 

12 

Missouri 

5.9 

.8 

declines  in  nondurables  manufacturing, 

private  service-type  industries  except 

United  States 

4.9 

1.0 

retail  trade,  and  government  caused 

personal  income  growth  to  lag  behind 

national  figures.  Cutbacks  in  defense- 

Slowest  growing  States: 

related  industries  in  California  and  earn- 

43 

Colorado 

3.9 

2.6 

ings  declines  in  the  construction  and 

44 

Washington 

3.8 

1.6 

finance/insurance/real  estate  industries 

45 

Texas 

3.7 

2.0 

in  Hawaii  were  responsible. 

46 

Wyoming 

3.6 

1.3 

47 

Alaska 

3.1 

1.4 

Source:  Tran.  D.D.  and  Friedenberg,  H.L.,  1995, 

48 

Montana 

2.8 

1.8 

Total  and  per  capita  personal  income  by  State  and 

49 

California 

2.7 

.7 

region,  Sun-ey  of  Current  Business  75(4):58-61 . 

50 

Hawaii 

2.4 

1.1 

Above-average  increases  in  farm 
income,  earnings  in  both  durables  and 
nondurables  manufacturing,  and  in 
retail  trade  boosted  personal  income 
growth  in  Iowa,  South  Dakota,  North 
Dakota,  Minnesota,  and  Missouri. 


In  Michigan,  Ohio,  Wisconsin,  and 
Indiana,  personal  income  growth  was 
boosted  by  above-average  increases  in 
earnings  in  durables  manufacturing,  in 
transportation  and  public  utilities,  in 
retail  trade,  and  in  government. 


1996  Vol.9No.  2 


33 


Home  Health  Care 

Home  health  care  has  become  the 
fastest  growing  segment  of  the  health 
serv'ices  industry.  Expansion  of  medi¬ 
care  benefits,  lower  costs  for  care  at 
home  relative  to  hospital  care,  and 
modem  technology  have  contributed 
to  this  growth.  Although  home  health 
care  is  not  a  replacement  for  all  hospital 
services,  it  has  become  an  important 
setting  for  delivering  preventive,  diag¬ 
nostic,  therapeutic,  rehabilitative,  and 
long-term  maintenance  services. 

According  to  employment  data  from  the 
Current  Employment  Statistics  survey, 
one  in  five  jobs  created  in  the  nonfami 
economy  since  January  1988  has  been 
in  the  health  services  industry.  Within 
health  services,  employment  in  home 
health  care  has  risen  by  168  percent  (or 
345,000  additional  Jobs).  In  contrast, 
employment  in  hospitals  has  increased 
by  1 8  percent — 580.000  additional  jobs 
(see  table).  Since  health  services  are 
always  in  demand,  the  health  care 
industry  is  recognized  for  its  strength  in 
bad  times  as  well  as  good.  Eor  example, 
during  the  most  recent  employment 
recession,  June  1990  through  February 
1992,  employment  in  the  health  services 
industry  grew  7.5  percent  while  employ¬ 
ment  in  the  total  nonfarm  economy  fell 
1.7  percent.  During  the  first  3  years  of 
the  recovery  period  following  this 
recession,  home  health  care  had  the 
third  largest  increase  of  all  industries, 
following  mortgage  bankers  and 
brokers  and  title  insurance. 


Employment  change  in  health  services,  1988  and  1994 


Percent  of  health 
services  employment 

Employment  change 

Industry 

January 

1988 

October 

1994 

Percent 

Level 

Total 

100.0 

100.0 

31 

(thousands) 

2,163 

Hospitals 

46.3 

41.6 

18 

576 

Physicians 

16.9 

17.3 

35 

406 

Nursing  and  personal 
care  facilities 

18.6 

18.1 

27 

350 

Home  health  care 

3.0 

6.0 

168 

345 

Practitioners 

3.1 

4.4 

88 

187 

Dental  offices 

6.9 

6.6 

25 

121 

Osteopaths  and  n.e.c. 

3.3 

3.7 

48 

109 

Laboratories 

2.0 

2.3 

45 

64 

Note:  Data  are  seasonally  adjusted, 
n.e.c.  -  not  elsewhere  classified. 

Source:  Freeman,  L..  1995,  Home -sweet -home  health  care.  Monthly  Labor  Review  1 18(3}:3-1 1. 


Home  Health  Care  Profile 

Home  health  care  services,  as  defined  in 
the  Standard  Industrial  Classification 
Manual  1987,  are  "establishments  pri¬ 
marily  engaged  in  providing  skilled 
nursing  or  medical  care  in  the  home, 
under  the  supervision  of  a  physician." 
Services  range  from  helping  with  basic 
activities  of  daily  living  to  caring  for 
patients  needing  specialized  care  for 
AIDS  or  cancer  chemotherapy.  Time 
with  the  patient  can  range  from  1  hour 
a  week  to  around-the-clock  care. 

According  to  the  Occupational  Employ¬ 
ment  Statistics  survey,  home  health 
aides'  are  the  most  common  providers 
of  care  to  individuals  at  home,  account¬ 
ing  for  3 1  percent  of  the  industry. 
Various  professional  health  providers 
make  up  32  percent,  of  which  20  percent 


are  registered  nurses,  and  7  percent  are 
licensed  practical  nurses.  Personal  and 
home  care  aides^  account  for  1 3  percent, 
and  the  remainder  is  comprised  of  other 
specialized  personnel  such  as  physical 
therapists,  social  workers,  and  speech 
pathologists. 


'Home  health  aides  have  been  defined  by  the 
Occupational  Employment  Statistics  survey  as 
those  who  care  for  elderly,  convalescent,  or  handi¬ 
capped  persons  in  the  home  of  the  patient.  They 
perfonn  duties  for  patients  such  as  changing  bed 
linens,  preparing  meals,  assisting  in  and  out  of 
bed,  bathing,  dressing,  and  grooming,  and  adminis¬ 
tering  oral  medications  under  a  doctor’s  orders  or 
at  the  direction  of  a  nurse. 

"Personal  and  home  care  aides  have  been  defined 
by  the  Occupational  Employment  Statistics  survey 
as  those  who  perform  a  variety  of  tasks  at  places 
of  residence.  Their  duties  include  keeping  a  house 
and  advising  families  with  problems  such  as 
nutrition,  cleanliness,  and  household  utilities. 


34 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


The  Impact  of  Medicare 

During  the  early  1980’s,  the  Health 
Care  Financing  Administration  imposed 
restrictions  on  coverage  of  home  health 
care  by  medicare.  Reimbursement  for 
home  care  that  was  provided  for  more 
than  4  days  a  week — no  matter  how 
little  time  was  involved — was  denied. 

A  lawsuit  was  filed  and  the  care  was 
certified  as  a  class  action  suit,  requiring 
the  government  to  reopen  all  medicare 
claims  from  patients  whose  benefits 
were  denied — estimated  to  number 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  individuals. 

As  a  result  of  the  decision,  medicare 
now  allows  payment  of  part-time  (fewer 
than  8  hours  a  day)  or  daily  (7  days-a- 
week)  home  health  care  services  for  as 
long  as  the  patient  requires  such  care. 
The  change  in  medicare  benefits  allows 
more  individuals  to  be  covered  by  home 
health  care  services.  Before  the  lawsuit, 
approximately  1.5  million  enrollees 
received  home  health  services  from 
medicare-certified  agencies.  By  the 
end  of  1993,  about  3.5  million  received 
these  benefits,  an  increase  of  more  than 
218  percent. 

Employment  in  home  health  services 
grew  21  percent  in  1990,  the  first  full 
year  in  which  the  new  guidelines  were 
in  effect.  Since  1990,  the  gains  in  the 
industry  have  averaged  1 6  percent 
annually.  The  number  of  medicare- 
certified  home  health  agencies  has 
increased  by  nearly  22  percent  over 
the  past  5  years;  most  of  the  increase 
occurred  in  1993  when  nearly  7,000 
medicare-certified  home  health  agencies 
and  a  little  more  than  6,000  noncertified 
agencies  provided  service.  Agencies 
that  have  remained  outside  of  medicare 
may  not  be  providing  skilled  nursing 
care  or  they  may  choose  to  restrict 
business  to  private-pay  patients. 


Cost  Effectiveness 

For  financial  reasons,  hospitals  find  it 
expedient  to  discharge  patients  as  soon 
as  medically  possible.  The  services  pro¬ 
vided  immediately  following  discharge 
have  become  an  increasingly  significant 
component  of  patient  care.  Cost  savings 
result  from  the  lower  overhead  expenses 
and  flexible  staffing  practices  of  the 
home  health  care  company.  High-cost 
institutional  care  is  replaced  by  profes¬ 
sional  care  and  personal  care,  which  is 
often  provided  by  family  or  friends. 
Data  from  the  Current  Employment 
Statistics  survey  show  that  the  average 
hourly  earnings  for  workers  in  the  home 
health  care  industry  is  more  than  $3  less 
than  that  for  those  in  the  hospital  industry, 
$10.67  compared  with  $14. 

Also,  in  an  institutional  setting,  a 
registered  nurse  or  doctor  may  visit  all 
patients  three  times  a  day,  while  home 
care  rounds  are  based  on  the  needs  of 
the  patient  and  his  or  her  family.  The 
frequency  of  the  visits  is  determined  by 
the  patient’s  condition  and  the  ability  of 
the  patient  and  the  family  to  learn  how 
to  provide  care  themselves,  with  the 
goal  being  self-sufficiency. 

Technological  Advances 

When  planning  for  home  health  care,  a 
major  concern  is  whether  the  treatment 
at  home  will  be  comparable  to  institu¬ 
tional  care.  Recent  technological  ad¬ 
vances  have  made  complex  medical 
equipment  more  compatible  with  the 
home  environment.  Lab  tests  are  now 
available  curbside  from  vans  that 
perform  lab  work  on  site. 

One  of  the  most  rapidly  growing  areas 
of  medical  technology  is  the  engineering 
and  production  of  medical  equipment 
tailored  for  use  in  the  home.  Such 


equipment  includes  blood  glucose  moni¬ 
toring  for  the  diabetic,  computerized 
equipment  for  the  disabled,  and  mini¬ 
intensive  care  units  with  ventilators  and 
central  venous  lines.  Employment  in  the 
medical  instruments  and  supplies  industry 
has  increased  by  1 7  percent  since  January 
1988. 

A  new  generation  of  hardware,  software, 
and  fiber-optic,  digital  cable  networks 
is  attracting  attention  from  hospitals, 
physicians,  and  clinics  in  both  urban 
and  rural  areas.  This  technology  en¬ 
hances  home  health  care  by  enabling 
hospital  staff  and  physicians  to  monitor 
patients  in  their  homes  via  telephone 
lines. 

Increased  Public  Awareness 

Recently,  the  public  has  become  more 
aware  of  the  home  health  care  industry. 
Change  in  the  structure  of  families  has 
contributed  to  this  awareness.  With 
increasing  numbers  of  women  in  the 
work  force — 59  percent,  up  from  56 
percent  in  1988 — fewer  family  members 
are  at  home  to  help  sick  or  elderly 
patients  who  may  need  sophi.sticated  care. 

Use  of  home  health  care  services  is 
dependent  on  many  factors  including 
the  patient’s  health  care  needs,  the 
type  of  reimbursement  plan,  and  the 
physician’s  willingness  to  prescribe 
home  care.  Home  health  care  cannot  be 
obtained  without  a  physician's  prescrip¬ 
tion,  so  the  physician,  who  makes 
specific  recommendations  and  referrals, 
plays  a  significant  role  in  deciding 
whether  to  use  home  care  services. 

A  1991  study,  "Physicians’  Attitudes 
and  Behaviors  Toward  Home  Health 
Care  Services,"  addressed  the  impor¬ 
tance  of  physicians’  insights  into  the 
strengths  and  weaknesses  of  the  home 


\99eVol.9No.2 


35 


health  care  industry.  The  survey  con¬ 
cluded  that  90  percent  of  the  physician 
sample  regarded  home  health  care 
services  and  programs  favorably,  while 
3  percent  regarded  them  unfavorably. 

As  physicians  become  more  involved 
with  home  care,  they  will  require  wider 
use  of  technological  improvements  and 
other  fonns  of  innovation  and  education. 
Approximately  82  percent  of  all  accred¬ 
ited  medical  schools  offered  home 
health  care  in  their  1992  curricula. 

The  Future 

The  expansion  of  medicare  benefits 
brought  about  by  policy  changes  in 
the  late  1980’s  had  a  major  impact  on 
employment  in  the  home  health  care 
industry.  In  the  absence  of  other  policy 
changes,  this  trend  will  most  likely 
continue.  Improved  cost-effectiveness, 
advancing  technology,  and  increased 
public  awareness  will  continue  to 
strengthen  the  industry. 

Employment  in  the  home  health  industry 
is  projected  to  increase  by  more  than 
500,000  jobs,  or  128  percent,  between 
1992  and  2005.  This  compares  with  an 
expected  increase  of  only  30  percent  in 
the  hospital  industry  and  43  percent  for 
total  health  services. 

The  need  for  personal  assistance  and 
health  care — specifically  home  health 
care — increases  with  age.  As  the  size 
of  the  elderly  population  increases,  the 
numbers  requiring  home  health  care 
should  greatly  increase,  also.  Aging 
baby  boomers  will  cause  the  elderly 
population  to  expand  from  39.7  million 
in  2010  to  69.8  million  in  2030,  when 
more  than  20  percent  of  the  population 
will  be  65  years  and  older. 


Source:  Freeman.  L.,  1995,  Home-sweet-home 
health  care.  Monthly  Labor  Review  1 18(i):3-l  1. 


Health  Needs  of 
Young  Children  in 
Foster  Care 


Foster  children  are  among  the  most 
vulnerable  individuals  in  the  welfare 
population.  Of  particular  concern  is  the 
health  of  young  foster  children  since 
conditions  left  untreated  during  the  first 
3  years  of  life  can  influence  functioning 
into  adulthood  and  impede  a  child's 
ability  to  become  self-sufficient  later 
in  life.  Yet,  little  comprehensive  infor¬ 
mation  is  available  about  the  provision 
of  health-related  services  to  meet  the 
needs  of  young  foster  children.  This 
report  provides  information  on  ( 1 )  the 
health-related  services  needed  and 
received  by  young  children  in  foster 
care,  (2)  the  relationship  between  the 
receipt  of  health-related  services  and 
foster  care  placements  with  relatives 
versus  placements  with  nonrelatives, 
and  (3)  what  responsible  agencies  are 
doing  to  ensure  that  these  children  are 
receiving  needed  health-related  services. 

To  develop  this  information,  the  General 
Accounting  Office  (GAO)  reviewed 
foster  care  programs  in  California, 

New  York,  and  Pennsylvania — the 
States  with  the  largest  average  monthly 
foster  care  populations  in  1991.  In  addi¬ 
tion,  random  samples  of  case  files  from 
Los  Angeles  County,  New  York  City, 
and  Philadelphia  County  from  a  com¬ 
bined  population  of  22,755  young  foster 
children  were  analyzed.  These  locations 
cared  for  a  substantial  portion  of  each 
State’s  young  foster  children.  Findings 
reported  here  are  based  on  cases  from 
only  these  three  locations. 


Results  indicated  that  a  significant 
proportion  of  young  foster  children  in 
Los  Angeles  County,  New  York  City, 
and  Philadelphia  County  did  not  receive 
critical  health-related  services.  Despite 
State  and  county  foster  care  agency 
regulations  requiring  comprehensive 
routine  health  care,  an  estimated  12 
percent  of  young  foster  children  received 
no  routine  health  care,  34  percent 
received  no  immunizations,  and  32  per¬ 
cent  had  at  least  some  identified  health 
needs  that  were  not  met.  Furthermore, 
an  estimated  78  percent  of  young  foster 
children  were  at  high  risk  for  human 
immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  as  a 
result  of  parental  drug  abuse,  yet  only 
an  estimated  9  percent  of  young  foster 
children  were  tested  for  it. 

Case  files  did  not  always  reflect  the 
exact  nature  or  extent  to  which  services 
were  provided.  Thus,  children  noted  as 
having  received  routine  medical  care 
may  have  received  as  little  care  as  one 
visit  with  a  physician  for  treatment  of  a 
minor  illness  rather  than  comprehensive 
or  ongoing  medical  care. 

States  must  offer  Early  and  Periodic 
Screening,  Diagnosis,  and  Treatment 
(EPSDT)  services  to  medicaid-eligible 
children.  EPSDT  services  are  specific, 
comprehensive  medical  examinations 
and  follow-up  treatment;  however,  only 
an  estimated  1  percent  of  the  young  foster 
children  in  the  locations  reviewed 
received  them. 

Children  with  no  known  health  problems 
were  less  likely  to  receive  routine  care 
than  children  who  were  at  risk  for  or 
had  serious  health  problems.  Of  the 
children  with  no  known  serious  health 
problems,  an  estimated  28  percent  did 
not  receive  any  health-related  services. 


36 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


By  comparison,  only  6  percent  of  children 
who  were  at  high  risk  for  serious  health 
problems  because  of  prenatal  drug 
exposure  and  2  percent  of  children  with 
serious  physical  health  problems  did  not 
receive  any  health-related  services. 

Although  young  foster  children  received 
a  wide  variety  of  services  from  health 
care  providers,  many  children  had  iden¬ 
tified  health-related  needs  that  were  not 
met.  GAO  used  information  collected 
from  case  files  to  identify  the  health- 
related  needs  of  each  child  and  to  match 
them  with  the  services  received.  About 
one-third  of  the  children  had  some  iden¬ 
tified  needs  that  were  not  met.  These 
unmet  needs  included  pulmonary  and 
speech  therapy;  psychotherapy;  develop¬ 
mental  assessments;  infant  stimulation 
services;  cardiological,  urological,  and 
neurological  examinations;  and  testing 
for  sickle  cell  anemia,  syphilis,  and  HIV. 

Young  foster  children  placed  with 
relatives  were  less  likely  than  children 
placed  with  nonrelatives  to  receive 
health-related  services  of  all  kinds. 

Also,  children  placed  in  kinship  care 
were  nearly  three  times  as  likely  as 
those  placed  in  traditional  foster  care 
to  have  received  no  routine  health  care. 
Since  studies  indicate  that  children  in 
kinship  care  remain  in  foster  care  longer, 
and  they  receive  a  lower  level  of  service, 
these  children  are  likely  to  go  without 
needed  services  for  longer  periods. 

More  and  more,  young  foster  children 
are  being  placed  with  relatives.  In 
California  and  New  York — the  States 
where  placement  data  were  available — 
the  number  of  young  children  placed 
with  relatives  increased  by  379  percent 
between  1986  and  1991,  while  the  number 


of  young  children  placed  with  non- 
relative  foster  parents  increased  by 
54  percent.  Consequently,  whereas  20 
percent  of  young  foster  children  were 
placed  with  relatives  in  1986,  43  per¬ 
cent  of  them  were  placed  with  relatives 
in  1991. 

Young  children  placed  in  kinship  care 
in  Los  Angeles  County  and  New  York 
City  were  three  times  more  likely  than 
those  placed  in  traditional  foster  care  to 
be  at  risk  for  future  problems  because 
of  prenatal  drug  exposure.  Furthermore, 
because  drug-exposed  children  are  more 
likely  to  be  at  risk  for  HIV  and  develop¬ 
mental  delays,  the  need  for  health- 
related  services  for  children  in  kinship 
care  is  even  more  critical.  Yet,  only  1 1 
percent  of  children  placed  exclusively 
in  kinship  care  received  specialized 
examinations,  such  as  developmental 
evaluations,  compared  with  42  percent 
of  those  placed  exclusively  in  traditional 
foster  care. 

The  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services  (HHS)  recently  contracted  for 
10  National  Resource  Centers  to  assist 
its  Administration  for  Children  and 
Families  (ACF)  in  responding  to  States’ 
questions  and  in  providing  free  techni¬ 
cal  assistance.  None,  however,  is  desig¬ 
nated  to  assist  States  with  health-related 
programs  for  foster  children.  Further¬ 
more,  while  ACF  audits  States  for 
compliance  with  federally  mandated 
safeguards  for  foster  children,  these 
audits  omit  review  of  compliance  with 
health-related  safeguards.  Therefore, 
when  a  State  has  passed  its  compliance 
audit,  it  is  entitled  to  receive  the  full 
Federal  child  welfare  funding  available 
by  law;  because  health-related  safeguards 
are  not  included  in  the  audit.  States 
have  no  Federal  financial  incentive  to 
comply  with  them. 


Local  foster  care  agencies  continue  to 
revise  health-related  policies,  regulations, 
and  programs  in  efforts  to  improve  the 
delivery  of  health  care  to  foster  children. 
Given  the  importance  of  health  care 
during  the  first  3  years  of  life,  an 
improved  response  to  the  health  needs 
of  this  vulnerable  population  is  vital. 


Source:  U.S.  General  Accounting  Office,  1995, 
Foster  Care:  Health  Needs  of  Many  Young 
Children  Are  Unknown  and  Unmet.  Report  to 
the  Ranking  Minority  Member,  Subcommittee 
on  Human  Resources,  Committee  on  Ways  and 
Means,  House  of  Representatives,  GAO/HEHS- 
95-114. 


1996  Vo/.  9  yVo,  2 


37 


Effects  of 
Intermittent  Labor 
Force  Attachment 
on  Women’s 
Earnings 

Women  who  interrupt  their  careers 
and  leave  the  labor  market  for  family 
responsibilities  often  return  to  find  that 
their  wages  lag  behind  those  of  women 
at  comparable  stages  in  their  careers 
who  did  not  leave  the  labor  force.  Many 
reasons  account  for  this  lag.  First,  women 
who  leave  the  labor  force  and  later 
re-enter  do  not  build  up  seniority,  with 
associated  higher  wages.  Second,  women 
who  return  to  the  labor  force  are  less 
likely  to  receive  on-the-job  training  to 
increase  their  productivity  and  thereby 
raise  their  pay.  Third,  when  women  are 
not  in  the  work  force,  their  job  skills 
may  decline.  Finally,  employers  may 
view  gaps  in  work  history  as  an  indica¬ 
tion  that  women  may  leave  again.  Some 
employers  would,  therefore,  hire  them 
for  less  important,  lower  paying  jobs  to 
limit  the  impact  of  a  future  leave. 

This  study  calculates  the  cost  of  taking 
a  break  from  work  in  terms  of  the  wage 
difference  between  women  who  work 
continuously  and  women  who  take  one 
or  more  leaves.  Because  those  who  do 
not  leave  the  work  force  tend  to  be 
younger  and  better  educated  than  those 
who  do,  a  straight-forward  comparison 
cannot  be  made — foregone  earnings 
would  be  overestimated. 


Characteristics  of  women  who  remained  in  the  labor  force  (no  gaps) 
and  women  who  left  the  labor  force  (1  or  more  gaps) 


Item 

Women  who  remained 

in  the  work  force 
(no  gaps) 

Women  who  left 

the  work  force 
( 1  or  more  gaps) 

Number  of  people 

696 

1.730 

Age 

39 

45 

Years  of  education 

14 

12 

Total  years  worked 

17 

Percent 

17 

Education 

No  high  school  diploma 

6 

21 

High  school  diploma 

33 

47 

Some  college 

27 

19 

College  degree 

15 

7 

Graduate  work 

19 

6 

Occupation 

Professional/executive 

38 

21 

Service  occupations 

10 

17 

Craft  occupations 

2 

3 

Pink  collar/blue  collar 

50 

59 

Marital  status 

Married 

58 

70 

Widowed 

3 

5 

Divorced 

21 

21 

Never  married 

18 

4 

Number  of  children  ever  bom 

None 

39 

9 

1 

18 

14 

2 

24 

33 

3  or  more 

19 

44 

Source:  Jacobsen,  J.P.  and  Levin,  L.M.,  1995,  Effects  of  inlennittent  labor  force  attachment  on  women's 
earninf’S,  Monthly  Labor  Review  1 18(9}:I4-19. 


3S 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Previous  studies  of  gaps  in  labor  force 
participation  have  found  that  these  gaps 
affect  earnings.  One  hypothesis  is  that 
women  returning  to  the  work  force  who 
find  their  wages  lower  than  they  had 
expected  are  quite  likely  to  leave  again; 
and  over  time  only  the  relatively  high- 
earning  women  who  have  had  a  break 
in  labor  force  participation  will  be  left 
in  the  work  force.  Another  hypothesis 
is  that  earnings  will  rebound  soon  after 
women  re-enter  the  work  force. 

This  study  tests  for  the  rebound  effect 
by  restricting  the  sample  of  women 
with  labor  force  breaks  to  those  women 
who  display  continuous  labor  force 
attachment  for  an  extended  period  after 
a  break.  Findings  indicate  that  when 
women  re-enter  the  labor  market,  their 
earnings  are  much  lower  than  those  of 
a  comparable  group  of  women  who  did 
not  leave  the  labor  market.  Over  time, 
that  difference  diminishes  (due  to  the 
rebound  effect)  but  never  disappears, 
even  after  as  long  as  20  years. 

Data  used  were  from  the  1984  panel 
of  the  Survey  of  Income  and  Program 
Participation.  Each  individual  in  the 
data  set  was  interviewed  eight  times 
at  4-month  intervals.  Participants  were 
asked  in  each  interview  about  their 
labor  force  participation  in  the  previous 
4  months.  Thus,  data  for  32  consecutive 
months  for  each  individual  (June  1983 
to  April  1986)  were  collected.  Only 
women  ages  30  to  64  at  the  start  of  the 
sample  period  were  included. 

Only  women  who  worked  relatively 
continuously  during  the  32  months  of 
the  sample  were  included  in  the  “no 
gap”  group;  women  must  have  reported 
earnings  in  the  1st,  6th,  12th,  18th,  24th, 
and  32d  months  of  the  .sample.  Thus, 


To  illustrate  the  cost  of  taking  an  employment  gap  for  a  particular  case, 
assume  a  woman  with  the  following  characteristics:  graduates  college  at 
age  21,  immediately  begins  full-time  work  (40  hours  a  week,  50  weeks  a 
year)  in  a  pink-collar  occupation  in  a  city  outside  the  South.  She  leaves 
work  at  age  25  for  7  years  and  re-enters  full-time  work  in  1984  at  age  32. 
The  difference  between  her  earnings  for  the  20  years  after  she  re-enters 
and  what  they  would  have  been  had  she  remained  constantly  employed  is 
$52,000.  Part  of  this  is  caused  by  her  fewer  years  of  experience;  part  is 
due  to  her  decision  to  leave  the  labor  force.  This  amount  is  equal  to  15 
percent  of  her  prospective  earnings  had  she  worked  constantly — or  about 
3  years  of  wages.  Thus,  the  cost  of  taking  a  7-year  gap  is  10  years  of  earnings. 


women  were  included  only  if  their  gaps 
were  shorter  than  6  months.  In  this 
way,  the  majority  of  women  who  have 
seasonally  intermittent  work  schedules, 
such  as  teachers,  participated  in  the 
“no  gap”  group. 

To  be  included  among  the  sample  of 
women  with  labor  force  breaks  (“gaps”), 
a  woman  must  have  taken  at  least  one 
break  from  work,  lasting  6  months  or 
longer,  between  the  year  she  received 
her  last  educational  degree  and  the 
beginning  of  the  survey.^ 

Total  work  experience  was  the  same 
for  the  two  groups  (see  table),  which 
reflects  the  higher  age  and  lower  educa¬ 
tional  attainment  of  the  women  who 
left  the  work  force.  These  women  were 
much  more  likely  to  be  working  part 
time  and  were  more  heavily  represented 
in  less  skilled  and  service  occupations — 
both  blue-  and  pink-collar  positions. 


'includes  women  who  worked  before  taking  a 
break,  and  women  who  had  an  initial  gap  between 
the  year  of  their  last  degree  and  the  year  in  which 
they  started  working. 


Women  who  left  the  work  force  were 
more  likely  than  their  counterparts 
who  remained  in  the  work  force  to 
be  married  and  to  have  children.  The 
reason  mentioned  most  often  for  taking 
leave  from  the  work  force  was  family 
reasons  (85  percent  gave  this  response). 
Other  reasons  included  poor  health  and 
inability  to  find  a  Job;  leaving  work  to 
attend  school  was  not  counted  as  a  gap. 

Regression  analysis  was  used  to  show 
the  direct  effects  on  wages  of  gaps 
occurring  at  different  times  in  the  past 
and  to  calculate  wage  ratios  that  control 
for  differences  in  age,  education,  work 
experience,  and  other  factors  between 
those  who  had  left  the  work  force  and 
those  who  remained  at  work.  The  re¬ 
gression  equation  was  estimated  at  three 
different  times  during  the  sample  period: 
the  1st,  18th,  and  32d  months.  The 
dependent  variable  was  the  natural  loga¬ 
rithm  of  the  hourly  wage.  Independent 
variables  controlled  for  individual 
characteristics  (age,  geographic  location, 
occupation  class,  and  human  capital) 
and  also  a  set  of  dummy  variables  for 
number  of  years  since  a  worker  ended 
her  last  absence  from  the  labor  force 
(measured  from  the  beginning  of  the 
survey).  Thus,  the  wages  of  the  same 


m6Vol.9No.2 


39 


group  of  women  could  be  measured  and 
examined  to  determine  what  changes 
occurred  over  the  duration  of  the  survey. 

A  lasting  negative  effect  and  a  gradual 
rebound  effect  resulted  from  the  period 
out  of  the  labor  force.  For  any  particular 
length  of  time  out  of  the  labor  force, 
2-1/2  years  of  continuous  labor  force 
attachment  will,  on  average,  diminish 
the  difference  in  wages  between  those 
who  have  left  the  work  force  and  those 
who  remained.  For  example,  in  the  in¬ 
itial  period,  women  whose  gaps  ended 
less  than  I  year  ago  had  wages  that 
were  33  percent  lower  than  those  of 
women  who  did  not  leave  the  labor 
force.  By  the  third  year  (when  they 
would  have  returned  to  the  work  force 
more  than  3  years  ago),  these  women’s 
wages  were  only  20  percent  lower  than 
those  of  women  who  remained  in  the 
labor  force. 


Although  there  is  strong  evidence  for 
a  partial  rebound  effect,  the  wages  of 
women  who  have  taken  a  leave  from 
the  labor  market  never  catch  up  to  the 
wages  of  women  who  never  left.  Even 
women  whose  labor  force  gap  occurred 
more  than  20  years  ago  still  earn  between 
5  and  7  percent  less  than  women  who 
never  left  the  labor  force  and  have 
comparable  levels  of  experience. 

The  effect  of  a  gap  on  a  woman’s  life¬ 
time  earnings  is  significantly  larger  than 
just  her  foregone  wages  during  the  time 
away  from  work.  This  finding  has 
significant  implications  for  the  way  in 
which  compensation  between  husband 
and  wife  is  calculated  in  divorce 
proceedings. 


Source:  Jacobsen,  J.P.  and  Levin.  L.M.,  1995, 
Effects  of  intermittent  labor  force  attachment  on 
women's  earnings.  Monthly  Labor  Review 
118(91.14-19. 


Would  you  like  to  publish  in  Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review? 

Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review  will  consider  for  publication  articles 
concerning  economic  and  nutritional  issues  related  to  the  health  and  well-being  of 
families.  We  are  especially  interested  in  studies  about  U.S.  population  groups  at 
risk — from  either  an  economic  or  nutritional  perspective.  Research  may  be  based 
on  primary  or  secondary  data  as  long  as  it  is  national  or  regional  in  scope  or  of 
national  policy  interest,  and  articles  may  use  descriptive  or  econometric  techniques. 
Manuscripts  may  be  mailed  to:  Joan  C.  Courtless,  Editor,  Center  for  Nutrition 
Policy  and  Promotion.  See  guidelines  for  complete  address. 


40 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Guidelines  for  Authors 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review  is  a  peer-reviewed  quarterly  published  by 

the  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion;  Food,  Nutrition,  and  Consumer 

Services;  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review  follows  the  guidelines  of  the  Publication 

Manual  of  the  American  Psychological  Association,  Fourth  Edition. 

1.  Manuscripts  may  not  be  submitted  elsewhere  while  under  consideration  by  the 
Review. 

2.  To  ensure  anonymity,  include  a  separate  title  page  with  author’s  full  name,  title, 
affiliation,  full  address,  and  telephone  number.  There  should  be  no  reference  to 
the  authors  in  the  text  or  footnotes. 

3.  Manuscripts  should  be  double-spaced,  on  8-1/2"  x  1 1"  paper,  have  1-1/4"  margins, 
and  use  10  or  12  pitch  type  size. 

4.  Manuscripts  should  include  an  abstract  of  no  more  than  150  words. 

5.  Abstract,  text,  references,  tables,  and  figures  should  not  exceed  30  pages. 

6.  Each  table  or  figure  should  be  placed  on  a  separate  page. 

7.  Upon  acceptance,  authors  must  send  a  3-1/2"  computer  disk  copy  of  the  final 
accepted  version  of  the  manuscript  in  WordPerfect  5.1  or  lower.  Disks  and 
manuscripts  will  not  be  returned. 

8.  All  authors  and  coauthors  must  sign  a  release  acknowledging  that  contents  of 
the  Review  are  in  the  public  domain. 

9.  Please  send  four  copies  to; 

Joan  C.  Courtless,  Editor 

Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 

USDA,  Center  for  Nutrition  Policy  and  Promotion 

1 120  20th  Street,  NW,  Suite  200  North  Lobby 

Washington,  DC  20036 

(202)606-4816 


1996  Vol.9No.2 


41 


Regular  Items 

Charts  From  Federal  Data  Sources 

Average  length  of  life  in  years,  by  race  and  sex:  United  States 

Age 
85 

80 

75 

70 

65 

60 

55 

1950  60  70  80  90  94 

Source:  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics,  1995, 
Monthly  Vital  Statistics  Report  43(1 3):  17,  table  7. 


Marital  status,  age  15  and  older,  by  sex  and  race,  1980  and  1994 


Black  female 


Black  male 


White  female 


White  male 


100 


1980  1994  1980  1994  1980  1994  1980  1994 

H  Never  married  U  Married  CD  Widowed  Divorced 

Source:  Bennett.  C.E.,  1995,  The  Black  Population  in  the  United  States:  March  1994  and  1993.  Current 
Population  Reports.  Population  Characteristics.  Series  P20-480.  U.S.  Department  of  Commerce. 


42 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Source:  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics.  1995. 
Monthly  Vital  Statistics  Report  43(1 3)  :11.  table  1. 


f 


i( 

I 


_ Not  available  <4.0  ■4.0-4.9  H  5.0  -  5.9  ■  >5.9 


Divorce  rates  per  1,000  population,  by  States,  1994 


i! 


Source:  U.S.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  National  Center  for  Health  Statistics.  1995. 
Monthly  Vital  Statistics  Report  43(1 3) :1 2.  table  2. 


li 


1996  Vol.9No.  2 


43 


Recent  Legislation  Affecting  Families 


Public  Law  104-65  (enacted  December 
19, 1995)  — the  Lobbying  Disclosure 
Act  of  1995  requires  that  each  person 
who  spends  at  least  20  percent  of  his/ 
her  time  lobbying  Members  of  Congress, 
their  staff  members,  or  executive  branch 
officials  must  register  as  a  lobbyist  with 
the  Clerk  of  the  House  and  the  Secretary 
of  the  Senate.  Any  person  who  lobbies 
on  behalf  of  a  foreign  government  must 
akso  register.  The  regi.stration  must 
identify  the  lobbyist’s  client,  the  issue 
lobbied,  and  the  amount  of  money  spent 
on  the  effort. 

Public  Law  104-70  (enacted  December 
23,  1995) — amends  the  Clean  Air  Act 
to  provide  for  an  optional  provision  for 
the  reduction  of  work-related  vehicle 
trips  and  miles  traveled  in  ozone  non¬ 
attainment  areas  designated  as  severe. 
Previously,  implementation  of  a  trip 
reduction  program  was  voluntary  rather 
than  mandatory.  Under  the  new  law, 
employers  must  implement  trip 
reduction  programs  in  nonattainment 
areas.  The  State  containing  the  non¬ 
attainment  area  can  adopt  any  program 
it  deems  appropriate. 

Public  Law  104-71  (enacted  December 
23,  1995) — the  Sex  Crimes  Against 
Children  Prevention  Act  of  1995 
increases  the  penalties  for  certain 
sexual  crimes  against  children.  This  law 
includes  increased  penalties  for  certain 
conduct  involving  the  sexual  exploitation 
of  children,  for  use  of  computers  in 
.sexual  exploitation  of  children,  and  for 
transportation  of  children  with  intent 
to  engage  in  criminal  .sexual  activity. 

In  addition,  the  law  requires  the  U.S. 
Sentencing  Commission  to  submit  a 


44 


report  to  Congress  concerning  offenses 
involving  child  pornography  and  other 
sex  offenses  against  children  within  180 
days. 

Public  Law  104-72  (enacted  December 
23,  1995) — authorizes  the  Director  of 
the  U.S.  Information  Agency  to  con¬ 
tinue  to  administer  an  an  pair  program, 
which  operates  on  a  worldwide  basis, 
through  fiscal  year  1997. 

Public  Law  104-73  (enacted  December 
26,  1995) — the  Federally  Supported 
Health  Centers  Assistance  Act  of  1995 
amends  the  Public  Health  Service  Act 
to  permanently  extend  and  clarify  mal¬ 
practice  coverage  for  health  centers. 
Federally  supported  health  centers  and 
their  doctors,  employees,  officers,  and 
contractors  were  insured  against  loss 
based  upon  malpractice  under  the 
Federal  Tort  Claims  Act  through 
December  31,  1995.  Under  this  law, 
coverage  is  extended  through 
December  31,  1998. 

Public  Law  104-76  (enacted  December 
28,  1995) — the  Housing  for  Older 
Persons  Act  of  1995  amends  the  Fair 
Housing  Act  by  modifying  the  exemp¬ 
tion  from  certain  familial  status  dis¬ 
crimination  prohibitions  granted  to 
housing  for  older  persons.  Under  this 
amendment,  a  housing  facility  will  he 
deemed  a  senior  housing  facility  if  80 
percent  of  its  units  are  occupied  by  per¬ 
sons  55  years  of  age  or  older,  without 
reference  to  the  facilities  and  services 
provided.  In  addition,  a  person  cannot 
be  held  personally  liable  for  monetary 
damages  for  a  violation  of  this  title  if 


the  person  reasonably  relied,  in  good 
faith,  on  the  application  of  the  exemp¬ 
tion  under  this  subsection  relating  to 
housing  for  older  persons;  that  is,  the 
person  has  no  actual  knowledge  that  the 
facility  or  community  was  not  eligible 
for  such  exemption,  and  the  facility  or 
community  has  stated  formally  in 
writing  that  they  comply  with  the 
requirements  for  the  exemption. 

Public  Law  104-95  (enacted  .January 
10,  1996) — amends  Title  IV  of  the  U.S. 
Code  to  limit  State  taxation  of  certain 
pension  income.  The  amendment 
specifies  that  no  State  may  impose  an 
income  tax  on  any  retirement  income 
of  an  individual  who  is  not  a  resident 
or  domiciliary  of  the  State. 

Public  Law  104-104  (enacted  February 
8,  1996) — the  Telecommunications  Act 
of  1996  rewrites  the  Nation’s  telecom¬ 
munications  laws,  promoting  competi¬ 
tion  and  removing  some  regulations 
on  telephone,  cable,  and  broadcast 
companies.  New  regulations  open  the 
local  telephone  monopolies  to  competi¬ 
tion  and  place  restraints  on  the  regional 
Bell  telephone  companies  as  they  enter 
the  long-distance  and  equipment  markets 
now  forbidden  to  them  by  court  order. 

In  addition,  new  rules  shape  competition 
in  video  services  among  telephone 
companies,  cable  carriers,  satellite 
services,  and  broadcasters. 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Research  and  Evaluation  Activities  in  USDA 


From  the  Office  of  Analysis 
and  Evaluation,  Food  and 
Consumer  Service 

The  Office  of  Analysis  and  Evaluation 
(OAE),  Food  and  Consumer  Service 
(ECS)  has  several  new  projects  of 
interest  to  the  nutrition  community. 

The  Effectiveness  of  Nutrition 
Education  and  Implications  for 
Nutrition  Education  Policy,  Programs, 
and  Research:  A  Review  of  Research 

A  special  issue  of  the  Journal  of  Nutrition 
Education  was  published  in  December 
1995.  The  journal  synthesizes  the 
research  on  nutrition  education  efforts 
targeted  at  preschoolers,  school  age 
children,  adults,  pregnant  women  and 
caregivers  of  infants,  older  adults,  and 
the  in-service  preparation  in  nutrition 
education  for  professionals  and  para- 
professionals.  Only  studies  with  strong 
evaluation  designs  were  reviewed  to 
answer  these  key  questions:  Does  nutri¬ 
tion  education  work?  If  so,  what  are  the 
successful  elements  across  interventions? 
What  are  the  implications  of  the  findings 
for  nutrition  education  programs  imple¬ 
mentation,  research,  and  policy?  A 
detailed  matrix  of  all  studies  reviewed 
was  provided  in  the  appendix.  The  studies 
provide  evidence  that  well-designed, 
consumer-driven,  behaviorally  focused 
nutrition  education  can  change  behavior 
to  promote  good  health.  Copies  of  the 
issue  are  available  from  ECS,  OAE,  or 
\\\t  Journal  of  Nutrition  Education. 


Nutrition  Education  in  Schools 

The  Nutrition  Education  in  Schools 
study  examined  the  status  of  nutrition 
education  in  U.S.  public  schools  in 
order  to  help  track  current  and  future 
initiatives.  The  National  Center  for 
Education  Statistics  (NCES)  conducted 
the  study  at  the  request  of  ECS.  The 
survey  requested  information  on  the 
status  of  nutrition  education  in  U.S. 
public  schools,  including:  (1)  topics 
covered;  (2)  how  schools  provide  nutri¬ 
tion  education  in  terms  of  instructional 
staff,  curricula  utilized,  and  integration 
of  nutrition  education  into  the  curriculum 
and  the  school  meals  program;  and  (3) 
importance  and  priority  of  topics.  With 
this  information,  the  Food  and  Consumer 
Service  can  identify  gaps  that  exist  in 
nutrition  education  and  determine 
where  additional  efforts  might  be 
needed. 

Data  were  collected  by  means  of  a 
self-administered  mail  survey  sent  to 

I, 000  school  principals  in  a  nationally 
representative  sample  of  U.S.  public 
elementary,  middle,  and  high  schools. 
Data  collection  was  completed  with  a 
final  response  rate  of  93  percent.  A 
final  report  is  currently  undergoing 
agency  clearance. 

Characteristics  of  Food  Stamp 
Households:  Summer  1994 

Nutritionists  who  counsel  lower  income 
clients  should  find  this  report  useful,  for 
it  provides  summary  information  about 
the  demographic  and  economic  circum¬ 
stances  of  food  stamp  households.  On 
average,  27.3  million  people  living  in 

I I. 0  million  households  received  food 
stamps  in  the  United  States  each  month 


in  the  summer  of  1994.  Over  half  of 
recipients  were  children  and  another  7 
percent  were  age  60  or  older.  The  average 
food  stamp  household  contained  2.5 
members. 

Twenty-one  percent  of  food  stamp 
households  had  earnings  and  38  percent 
received  Aid  for  Families  With  Depend¬ 
ent  Children  (AFDC)  benefits.  Other 
cash  assistance  received  by  food  stamp 
households  included  Supplemental 
Security  Income  (23  percent  of  house¬ 
holds),  Social  Security  (18  percent), 
and  State  General  Assistance  benefits 
(7  percent).  Ten  percent  of  households 
had  no  income  of  any  kind. 

Only  10  percent  of  food  stamp  house¬ 
holds  had  incomes  above  the  poverty 
line,  whereas  41  percent  were  at  or 
below  half  the  poverty  line.  The  typical 
food  stamp  household  had  a  gross  income 
of  $514  per  month  and  received  a  monthly 
benefit  of  $165.  Nearly  one-fourth  of 
monthly  available  funds  (cash  income 
plus  food  stamps)  for  a  typical  house¬ 
hold  comes  from  food  stamps. 

Geographic  Analysis  of  Retailer  Access 

The  ability  of  food  stamp  participants 
to  obtain  a  nutritious  and  healthful  diet 
depends,  in  part,  on  their  proximity  to 
food  stores  that  carry  a  full  line  of  food 
and  are  authorized  to  accept  food  stamps. 
This  report  used  geographic  information 
systems  software  to  calculate  the  distance 
(in  terms  of  miles)  between  Food  Stamp 
Program  participants  and  stores  likely 
to  carry  a  full  line  of  food  (defined  as 
supermarkets  plus  “large”  groceries — 
those  with  over  $5(X),(XX)  in  annual  sales). 
The  report  measured  distances  in  9  sites 
drawn  from  over  40  sites  used  in  a 


1996  Vol.9No.  2 


45 


nationally  representative  sample  of 
food  stores  authorized  to  participate  in 
the  Food  Stamp  Program.  The  sites  in 
this  report  were  not  nationally  repre- 
•sentative  but  were  chosen  to  represent 
a  range  of  demographic  and  income 
characteristics.  They  included  highly 
urban,  small-city-plus-surrounding- 
rural,  and  sparsely  populated  areas. 

In  the  highly  urban  sites  (inner-city 
Baltimore;  southeast  Los  Angeles;  and 
Pasadena,  CA),  over  90  percent  of  food 
stamp  households  lived  within  a  half 
mile  of  a  supermarket  or  large  grocery. 
In  these  highly  urban  areas,  we  also 
examined  the  presence  of  supermarket 
chains  ranked  in  the  top  200  nationally. 
The  presence  of  nationally  ranked 
chains  varied  from  1  in  4  large  stores 
in  Baltimore  and  Pasadena  to  1  in  45 
in  southeast  Los  Angeles. 

In  the  small  cities  studied  (Charleston, 
WV;  Las  Cruces,  NM;  and  Palmdale, 
CA),  between  75  and  97  percent  of  food 
stamp  households  lived  within  2  miles 
of  a  supermarket  or  large  grocery.  In 
the  rural  areas  surrounding  these  small 
cities,  between  34  and  74  percent  of 
food  stamp  households  lived  within  2 
miles  of  a  supermarket  or  large  grocery. 
Finally,  in  the  sparsely  populated  areas 
(Boone  County,  WV;  Dillon  and  Marion 
Counties,  SC;  and  Otero  and  Lincoln 
Counties,  NM),  between  56  and  87  per¬ 
cent  of  food  stamp  households  resided 
within  2  miles  of  a  supermarket  or  large 
grocery.  This  was  because  most  of  the 
food  stamp  population  lived  in  the  small 
towns  that  contained  the  majority  of 
such  stores. 

This  report  is  one  in  a  series  of  studies 
on  food  access.  Future  reports  will 
explore  the  quality,  variety,  and  price 
of  food  available  in  stores  accessible 
to  food  stamp  households. 


Children’s  Food  Assistance 
Geomapping  Study 

FCS  awarded  a  contract  to  investigate 
the  feasibility  of  using  geomapping  as 
a  method  of  examining  the  delivery  of 
FCS  food  assistance  program  benefits 
to  children  in  rural  areas.  The  objectives 
of  this  study  are  to:  ( 1 )  identify  and  map 
the  areas  of  the  United  States  where 
children  who  are  at  or  below  130  per¬ 
cent  and  185  percent  of  poverty  reside; 
(2)  identify  and  resolve  the  practical 
problems  associated  with  use  of  geo¬ 
mapping  to  examine  food  assistance 
program  access  to  children;  and  (3)  use 
geomapping  to  identify  and  examine 
variables  that  affect  access  of  children 
to  the  following  food  assistance  programs; 

(a)  School  Breakfast  Program  (SBP); 

(b)  Child  and  Adult  Care  Food  Program 
(CACFP),  including  child  care  centers, 
outside-school-hours  care  centers,  and 
family  and  group  day  care  homes;  (c) 
Summer  Food  Service  Program  (SFSP); 
and  (d)  Special  Supplemental  Nutrition 
Program  for  Women,  Infants,  and 
Children  (WIC). 

The  application  of  geographic  informa¬ 
tion  systems  (CIS)  technology  will  be 
a  significant  component  of  this  study. 
Locations  of  the  relevant  food  assistance 
programs  will  be  mapped  and  matched 
with  census  data  on  poverty,  transporta¬ 
tion,  and  other  relevant  variables  in 
order  to  examine  the  delivery  of  benefits 
to  children  in  rural  areas.  The  project 
will  provide  the  opportunity  to  assess 
the  potential  contribution  that  emerging 
CIS  technology  can  provide  in  the 
administration  of  the  programs  included 
in  this  study.  Issues  related  to  using 
geomapping  to  examine  FCS  program 
access  nationwide  will  also  be  examined. 
Findings  will  be  available  in  mid- 1997. 


From  the  Beltsville  Human 
Nutrition  Research  Center, 
Agricultural  Research 
Service 

CD-ROM  Available 

The  1994  Continuing  Survey  of  Food 
Intakes  by  Individuals  (CSFII)  and  the 
1994  Diet  and  Health  Knowledge  Survey 
(DHKS)  are  national  surveys  conducted 
by  the  Agricultural  Research  Service  of 
USDA.  The  CSFII  provides  information 
on  food  and  nutrient  intakes  by  5,589 
individuals  of  all  ages,  and  the  DHKS 
provides  information  on  dietary  knowl¬ 
edge  and  attitudes  from  1,879  individuals 
20  years  and  older  who  participated  in 
the  1994  CSFII. 

In  the  previous  issue  of  Family  Economics 
and  Nutrition  Review,  we  reported  that 
microdata  from  the  1994  CSFII  could 
be  purchased  on  magnetic  tape  from  the 
National  Technical  Information  Service 
(NTIS).  These  data,  together  with  those 
from  the  1994  DHKS,  are  now  also 
available  on  CD-ROM  from  NTIS.  The 
cost  is  $50  for  residents  of  the  United 
States,  Canada,  and  Mexico;  the  cost  is 
$100  for  other  addresses. 

The  data  allow  users  to  perform  their 
own  statistical  analyses.  The  CD-ROM 
contains  the  survey  instruments — 
Screener,  Household  Questionnaire, 

Day  1  and  Day  2  Intake  (24-hour  recall) 
Questionnaires,  and  the  Diet  and  Health 
Knowledge  Questionnaire.  Sampling 
weights  needed  for  calculating  popula¬ 
tion  estimates  are  included  on  the  CD- 
ROM,  as  are  technical  support  files: 
the  Survey  Food  Coding  Data  Base 
(contains  descriptions  and  portion  size 
weights  for  over  7,500  foods);  the  Survey 
Nutrient  Data  Base  (contains  values  for 
10  vitamins,  8  minerals,  macronutrients. 


46 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


total  fatty  acids,  energy,  fiber,  and  alcohol 
for  each  food  in  the  Food  Coding  Data 
Base);  and  the  Survey  Recipe  Data  Base 
(contains  representative  recipes  for  food 
mixtures  found  in  the  Food  Coding 
Data  Base).  These  technical  support 
files  may  be  downloaded  from  the  CD- 
ROM  as  ASCII  files  or  imported  into  a 
data  base  management  program.  Each 
data  base  consists  of  several  separate 
data  files.  A  document  is  included  that 
indicates  the  relationships  among  the 
data  files  and  provides  the  format  for 
each  file. 

The  CD-ROM  contains  search  and 
retrieval  software — the  Statistical  Export 
and  Tabulation  System  (SETS) — that 
allows  the  user  to  browse  the  documen¬ 
tation  and  data  files,  as  well  as  to  create 
data  subsets.  Also,  the  survey  data  set 
is  made  up  of  seven  different  files  from 
which  users  can  extract  and  manipulate 
the  data  using  data  processing  programs 
such  as  SAS  or  SPSS.  SAS  programs 
that  read  the  data  files  into  SAS  and 
create  SAS  data  files  are  provided. 

These  programs  may  be  adapted  to 
read  the  data  into  other  data  files  and 
provide  the  format  for  each  file. 

The  CD-ROM  can  be  used  on  a  fully 
IBM-compatible  microcomputer  286 
or  higher.  SETS  will  operate  in  a  MS- 
DOS  3. 1  or  higher  environment  and 
Microsoft  CD-ROM  extensions  2.0  or 
higher.  SETS  will  not  work  in  Apple 
Macintosh  or  UNIX;  however,  SETS 
can  run  on  Apple  systems  using  Soft 
Windows  but  not  on  a  network.  The 
data  set  is  on  one  disk. 

To  order  the  CD-ROM,  call  the  National 
Technical  Information  Service  (NTIS) 
at  (703)  487-4650  with  order  number 
PB96-50I0I0. 


New  Report 

A  new  report.  Nutrition  Attitudes  and 
Dietary  Status  of  Main  Meal  PlannersI 
Preparers,  1989-91 :  Results  from  the 
1989-91  Diet  and  Health  Knowledge 
Survey  and  the  1989-91  Continuing 
Sun'ey  of  Food  Intakes  by  Individuals, 
was  released  in  January  1996. 

This  report  contains  data  on  nutrition 
attitudes  and  dietary  status  of  individuals 
identified  as  main  meal  planners/preparers 
in  two  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
surveys:  the  1989-91  Continuing  Survey 
of  Pood  Intakes  by  Individuals  (CSFII) 
and  the  Diet  and  Health  Knowledge 
Survey  (DHKS).  These  two  surveys 
were  designed  so  that  individuals’ 
attitudes  and  knowledge  about  healthy 
eating  (DHKS)  could  be  linked  with 
their  food  choices  and  nutrient  intakes 
(CSPII). 

Data  were  collected  in  the  48  contermi¬ 
nous  States  and  the  District  of  Columbia 
between  April  1989  and  May  1992. 
Dietary  intake  information  from  the 
CSFII  was  collected  using  a  1-day 
recall  and  a  2-day  record.  The  DHKS 
data  were  collected  about  6  weeks  after 
the  CSFII. 

Data  from  4,346  individuals  are  presented 
under  six  topics:  How  main  meal  planners/ 
preparers  rate  the  adequacy  of  their 
own  diet,  the  importance  of  dietary 
guidance,  relationships  between  health 
and  diet,  dietary  beliefs,  cooking  practices, 
and  factors  related  to  grocery  shopping. 
Supplementary  data  are  included  on 
dietary  attitudes  and  nutrient  intakes 
related  to  the  recommended  servings 
of  specified  food  groups,  the  perceived 
safety  of  specified  foods,  and  the  use 


of  nutrition  labels.  In  addition,  socio¬ 
economic  and  health-related  infonnation 
was  collected.  A  detailed  description  of 
the  survey  design,  additional  infonnation 
on  the  data  collection  methodology,  and 
selected  2-year  data  from  the  DHKS  are 
included  in  Appendices. 

Copies  may  be  purchased  from  the 
National  Technical  Information  Service, 
5285  Port  Royal  Road,  Springfield,  VA 
22161,  telephone  (703)  487-4650. 
Specify  Accession  No.  PB96- 144472. 


\996Vol.9No.2 


A1 


Data  Sources 


Pregnancy  Nutrition 
Surveillance  System  (PNSS) 

Sponsoring  agency:  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services 

Population  covered:  Low-income 
pregnant  women  who  participate  in 
public  health  programs. 

Sample  size:  For  1994,  454,000  records 

Geographic  distribution:  For  1994, 

18  States,  the  District  of  Columbia, 
American  Samoa,  and  the  Navajo 
Nation. 

Years  data  collected:  Continuously 
since  1979 


Pediatric  Nutrition 
Surveillance  System  (PedNSS) 

Sponsoring  agency:  U.S.  Department 
of  Health  and  Human  Services 

Population  covered:  Low-income, 
high-risk  infants,  children,  and  adoles¬ 
cents  from  birth  to  1 8  years  of  age  who 
are  enrolled  in  clinics  served  by  pub¬ 
licly  funded  health  and  nutrition 
programs. 

Sample  size:  For  1994,  8.1  million 
records  from  6,135  clinics 

(Jeographic  distribution:  For  1994, 

39  States,  6  Indian  reservations,  Puerto 
Rico,  and  the  District  of  Columbia. 

Years  data  collected:  Continuously 
since  1973 


Method  of  data  collection:  The  PNSS 
is  based  on  data  collected  from  health, 
nutrition,  and  food  assistance  programs 
for  pregnant  women,  such  as  the  Special 
Supplemental  Nutrition  Program  for 
Women,  Infants,  and  Children  (WIC) 
and  prenatal  clinics  funded  by  Maternal 
and  Child  Health  block  grants  and  State 
monies. 

Future  surveys  planned:  Annually 

Major  variables:  Nutrition-related 
indicators  include  pre-pregnancy  weight 
and  height,  iron  deficiency,  and  prenatal 
weight  gain.  Maternal  behavioral  risk 
factors  include  smoking  status,  alcohol 
consumption,  and  month  of  gestation 
when  participation  in  pre-natal  care 
began.  Demographic  characteristics 


include  age,  ethnic  group,  education, 
marital  status,  and  migrant  status.  Data 
about  infant  outcome  include  date  of 
birth,  sex,  number  of  infants  bom,  birth- 
weight,  duration  of  breastfeeding,  and 
infant’s  age  at  introduction  of  formula. 


For  further  information  and  data: 

Centers  for  Disease  Control 
and  Prevention 

National  Center  for  Chronic  Disease 
Prevention  and  Health  Promotion 
Division  of  Nutrition 
4770  Buford  Highway,  NE 
Mailstop  K-25 
Atlanta,  GA  30341 
(770)  488-4867 


Method  of  data  collection:  Specific 
data  are  collected  from  the  clinic  record 
of  each  child  from  each  visit  to  a  partici¬ 
pating  program,  such  as  the  Special 
Supplemental  Nutrition  Program  for 
Women,  Infants,  and  Children  (WIC); 
Head  Start;  Early  and  Periodic  Screen¬ 
ing,  Diagnosis,  and  Treatment  (EPSDT) 
Program;  and  other  programs  funded 
by  Maternal  and  Child  Health  (MCH) 
block  grants.  This  individual  demo¬ 
graphic  and  health  screening  informa¬ 
tion  is  collected  with  State-  and  program- 
specific  coding  fomis,  processed  at 
the  State  level,  and  forwarded  to  the 
Centers  for  Disease  Control  and 
Prevention  for  analysis. 

Future  surveys  planned:  Annually 


Major  variables:  Anthropometric 
(birthweight,  height,  and  weight),  hema¬ 
tologic  (hemoglobin,  hematocrit,  and 
erythrocyte  protoporphyrin),  and  breast¬ 
feeding  patterns.  Demographic  infomia- 
tion  (clinic,  county,  date  of  birth,  data 
of  visit,  race/ethnic  group,  sex,  type  of 
program,  and  type  of  visit — initial  or 
follow-up)  is  also  included. 


For  further  information  and  data: 

Centers  for  Disease  Control 
and  Prevention 

National  Center  for  Chronic  Disease 
Prevention  and  Health  Promotion 
Division  of  Nutrition 
4770  Buford  Highway,  NE 
Mailstop  K-25 
Atlanta,  GA  30341 
(770)  488-4867 


48 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Journal  Abstracts 

The  following  abstracts  are  reprinted  verbatim  as  they  appear  in  the  cited  source. 


Bialostosky,  K.  and  St.  Jeor,  S.T. 

1996.  The  1995  Dietary  Guidelines 
for  Americans.  Nutrition  Today 
31f/j.-6-ll. 

The  fourth  edition  of  the  Dietary  Guide¬ 
lines  is  issued  jointly  by  the  US  Depart¬ 
ment  of  Health  and  Human  Services 
(HHS)  and  the  Department  of  Agricul¬ 
ture  (USDA).  Revised  every  5  years 
since  1980,  the  1995  edition  is  the  first 
to  be  mandated  by  Congress.  The  Guide¬ 
lines  are  based  on  established  medical 
and  scientific  knowledge  at  the  time 
they  are  issued  and  provide  nutrition 
and  dietary  guidance  for  the  public. 

Each  Federal  agency  is  required  to 
promote  these  Guidelines  in  carrying 
out  any  Federal  food,  nutrition,  or 
health  program.  This  paper  is  based 
on  a  presentation  made  at  the  Society 
for  Nutrition  Education’s  1995  annual 
meeting. 

Flegal,  K.M«,  Troiano,  R.P.,  Pamuk,  E.R., 
Kuczmarski,  R.J.,  and  Campbell,  S.M. 
1995.  The  influence  of  smoking  cessa¬ 
tion  on  the  prevalence  of  overweight 
in  the  United  States.  The  New  England 
Journal  of  Medicine  333f7Sj;1165- 
1170. 

Background.  The  proportion  of  U.S. 
adults  35  to  74  years  of  age  who  were 
overweight  increased  by  9.6  percent 
for  men  and  8.0  percent  for  women 
between  1978  and  1990.  Since  the 
prevalence  of  smoking  declined  over 
the  same  period,  smoking  cessation  has 
been  suggested  as  a  factor  contributing 
to  the  increasing  prevalence  of  over¬ 
weight. 


Methods.  To  estimate  the  influence  of 
smoking  cessation  on  the  increase  in  the 
prevalence  of  overweight,  we  analyzed 
data  on  current  and  past  weight  and 
smoking  status  for  a  national  sample 
of  5247  adults  35  years  of  age  or  older 
who  participated  in  the  third  National 
Health  and  Nutrition  Examination 
Survey,  conducted  from  1988  through 
1991 .  The  results  were  adjusted  for  age, 
sociodemographic  characteristics,  level 
of  physical  activity,  alcohol  consump¬ 
tion,  and  (for  women)  parity. 

Results.  The  weight  gain  over  a  10-year 
period  that  was  associated  with  the  ces¬ 
sation  of  smoking  (i.e.,  the  gain  among 
smokers  who  quit  that  was  in  excess  of 
the  gain  among  continuing  smokers) 
was  4.4  kg  for  men  and  5.0  kg  for 
women.  Smokers  who  had  quit  within 
the  past  10  years  were  significantly 
more  likely  than  respondents  who  had 
never  smoked  to  become  overweight 
(odds  ratios,  2.4  for  men  and  2.0  for 
women).  For  men,  about  a  quarter 
(2.3  of  9.6  percentage  points)  and  for 
women,  about  a  sixth  ( 1 .3  of  8.0  percent¬ 
age  points)  of  the  increase  in  the  preva¬ 
lence  of  overweight  could  be  attributed 
to  smoking  cessation  within  the  past 
10  years. 

Conclusions.  Although  its  health  benefits 
are  undeniable,  smoking  cessation  may 
nevertheless  be  associated  with  a  small 
increase  in  the  prevalence  of  over¬ 
weight. 


Hernandez,  D.J.  1995.  Changing 
demographics:  Past  and  future 
demands  for  early  childhood 
programs.  The  Future  of  Children 
5(Jj.l45-160. 

This  article  provides  a  historical  analysis 
of  how  demographic  changes  in  the 
organization  of  American  family  life 
from  the  mid- 1 8()0s  to  the  present  have 
shaped  the  demand  for  programs  to 
complement  the  efforts  of  families  to 
educate  and  care  for  their  children.  The 
author  asserts  that  the  United  States  is 
in  the  midst  of  a  second  child  care 
revolution.  The  first  occurred  in  the  late 
1800s,  when  families  left  farming  to 
enable  fathers  to  take  jobs  in  urban  areas 
and  when  compulsory  free  public 
schooling  was  established  for  children 
age  six  and  above.  The  second  has 
developed  over  the  past  55  years  as  the 
proportion  of  children  under  six  living 
in  families  with  two  wage  earners  or  a 
single  working  parent  has  escalated 
and  propelled  more  and  more  young 
children  into  the  early  childhood  care 
and  education  programs  discussed 
throughout  this  journal  issue. 

Looking  to  the  future,  the  author  sees 
indications  that  the  demand  for  early 
childhood  care  and  education  programs 
will  continue  to  grow  while  the  needs  of 
the  children  to  be  served  will  become 
increasingly  diverse.  To  meet  these  dual 
pressures,  the  author  argues  that  public 
funding  for  early  childhood  programs — 
like  funding  for  public  schools — is 
justified  by  the  value  such  programs 
have  for  the  broader  society. 


1996  Vol.9No.  2 


49 


Cost  of  Food  at  Home 

Cost  of  food  at  home  estimated  for  food  plans  at  four  cost  levels,  March  1996,  U.S.  average^ 


Cost  for  1  week 

Cost  for  1  month 

Sex-age  group 

Thrifty 

plan 

Low-cost 

plan 

Moderate- 
cost  plan 

Liberal 

plan 

Thrifty 

plan 

Low-cost 

plan 

Moderate- 
cost  plan 

Liberal 

plan 

FAMILIES 

Family  of  2:^ 

20  -  50  years . 

$55.10 

$69.60 

$85.80 

$107.10 

$238.70 

$301.40 

$372.10 

$464.00 

51  years  and  over . 

51.90 

66.90 

82.80 

99.10 

225.00 

290.20 

358.60 

429.60 

Family  of  4: 

Couple,  20  -  50  years 
and  children — 

1  -  2  and  3  -  5  years . 

80.10 

100.20 

122.50 

150.90 

347.10 

434.00 

531.00 

653.70 

6  -  8  and  9-11  years . 

92.00 

117.80 

147.00 

177.30 

398.50 

510.40 

637.00 

768.10 

INDIVIDUALS^ 

Child: 

1  -  2  years . 

14.40 

17.70 

20.70 

25.10 

62.50 

76.60 

89.70 

108.70 

3  -  5  years . 

15.60 

19.20 

23.80 

28.40 

67.60 

83.40 

103.00 

123.20 

6  -  8  years . 

19.10 

25.50 

31.80 

37.00 

82.90 

110.70 

137.70 

160.40 

9-11  years . 

22.80 

29.00 

37.20 

42.90 

98.60 

125.70 

161.00 

185.90 

Male: 

12-14  years . 

23.60 

32.80 

40.70 

47.90 

102.40 

142.10 

176.30 

207.40 

15-19  years . 

24.40 

33.80 

42.10 

48.70 

105.60 

146.30 

182.30 

211.00 

20  -  50  years . 

26.30 

33.70 

42.00 

51.10 

114.00 

145.80 

182.20 

221.20 

51  years  and  over . 

23.80 

32.10 

39.60 

47.50 

102.90 

139.30 

171.50 

205.80 

Female: 

12-19  years . 

23.60 

28.30 

34.40 

41.50 

102.20 

122.80 

149.00 

180.00 

20  -  50  years . 

23.80 

29.60 

36.00 

46.30 

103.00 

128.20 

156.10 

200.60 

51  years  and  over . 

23.40 

28.70 

35.70 

42.60 

101.60 

124.50 

154.50 

184.70 

^Assumes  that  food  for  all  meals  and  snacks  is  purchased  at  the  store  and  prepared  at  home.  Estimates  for  the  thrifty  food  plan  were 
computed  from  quantities  of  foods  published  in  Family  Economics  Review  1984(  1).  Estimates  for  the  other  plans  were  computed  from 
quantities  of  foods  published  in  Family  Economics  Review  1983(2).  The  costs  of  the  food  plans  are  estimated  by  updating  prices  paid  by 
households  surveyed  in  1977-78  in  USDA's  Nationwide  Food  Consumption  Survey.  USDA  updates  these  survey  prices  using  information 
from  the  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics,  CPI  Detailed  Report,  table  4,  to  estimate  the  costs  for  the  food  plans. 

^Ten  percent  added  for  family  size  adjustment.  See  footnote  3. 

^The  costs  given  are  for  individuals  in  4-person  families.  For  individuals  in  other  size  families,  the  following  adjustments  are  suggested: 

1 -person — add  20  percent;  2-person — add  10  percent;  3-person — add  5  percent:  5-  or  6-person — subtract  5  percent;  7-  or  more-person — 
subtract  10  percent. 


50 


Family  Economics  and  Nutrition  Review 


Consumer  Prices 


Consumer  Price  Index  for  all  urban  consumers  [1982-84  =  100] 


Group 

Unadjusted  indexes 

March 

1996 

February 

1996 

January 

1996 

March 

1995 

All  items . 

155.7 

154.9 

154.4 

151.4 

Food . 

151.6 

150.8 

151.0 

147.4 

Food  at  home . 

152.5 

151.4 

151.9 

147.6 

Food  away  from  home . 

151.2 

150.9 

150.6 

148.1 

Flousing . 

151.7 

151.2 

150.6 

147.4 

Shelter . 

170.1 

169.4 

168.6 

164.5 

Renters’  costs^ . 

180.4 

178.8 

176.6 

174.6 

Flomeowners'  costs^ . 

175.0 

174.6 

174.3 

169.8 

Household  insurance^ . 

159.1 

158.6 

158.0 

157.1 

Maintenance  and  repairs . 

137.5 

137.0 

136.3 

134.2 

Maintenance  and  repair  services . 

143.8 

143.0 

142.1 

138.8 

Maintenance  and  repair  commodities . 

129.0 

128.8 

128.6 

128.2 

Fuel  and  other  utilities . 

125.2 

125.0 

124.7 

122.3 

Fuel  oil  and  other  household  fuel  commodities . 

99.3 

97.7 

97.6 

89.0 

Gas  (piped)  and  electricity . 

118.2 

119.1 

118.7 

117.1 

Household  furnishings  and  operation . 

124.6 

124.3 

124.1 

122.6 

Housefurnishings . 

111.7 

111.4 

111.4 

111.2 

Apparel  and  upkeep . 

134.8 

131.2 

130.0 

134.4 

Apparel  commodities . 

131.6 

127.8 

126.5 

131.3 

Men's  and  boys’  apparel . 

129.1 

126.4 

124.7 

127.2 

Women’s  and  girls’  apparel . 

129.9 

124.6 

123.4 

131.5 

Infants’  and  toddlers'  apparel . 

133.3 

134.4 

131.5 

127.1 

Footwear . 

128.1 

125.8 

123.4 

125.9 

Apparel  services . 

158.9 

158.5 

158.2 

157.6 

Transportation . 

141.2 

140.4 

139.9 

138.0 

Private  transportation . 

138.3 

137.5 

137.4 

135.2 

New  vehicles . 

143.6 

143.5 

143.2 

140.7 

Used  cars . 

157.3 

157.5 

157.9 

154.8 

Motor  fuel . 

101.4 

98.2 

98.6 

97.5 

Maintenance  and  repairs . 

156.9 

156.6 

156.2 

152.7 

Other  private  transportation . 

172.5 

173.2 

172.7 

170.2 

Public  transportation . 

178.9 

177.4 

171.6 

174.5 

Medical  care . 

226.6 

226.2 

225.2 

218.4 

Medical  care  commodities . 

208.9 

208.5 

207.7 

203.7 

Medical  care  services . 

230.7 

230.3 

229.3 

221.8 

Professional  medical  services . 

206.5 

206.1 

205.0 

199.1 

Entertainment . 

158.4 

158.3 

157.0 

152.6 

Entertainment  commodities . 

142.7 

142.5 

141.4 

137.3 

Entertainment  services . 

177.0 

177.0 

175.5 

170.7 

Other  goods  and  services . 

213.0 

212.6 

212.0 

204.0 

Personal  care . 

149.4 

149.3 

149.1 

146.0 

Toilet  goods  and  personal  care  appliances . 

144.0 

144.1 

143.7 

142.2 

Personal  care  services . 

155.3 

155.2 

155.0 

150.2 

Personal  and  educational  expenses . 

244.1 

243.7 

243.0 

232.0 

School  books  and  supplies . 

225.2 

224.7 

223.8 

212.6 

Personal  and  educational  services . 

245.7 

245.4 

244.7 

233.6 

^Indexes  on  a  December  1982  =  100  base. 


Source:  U.S.  Department  of  Labor,  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics. 


\996Vol.9No.2 


51 


Order  Processing  Code:  Superintendent  of  Documents  Order  Form  Charge  your  order. 

*5141  It's  Easy! 

To  fax  your  orders  (202)  512-2233 

□  yes,  enter  my  subscription  as  follows: 

_ subscriptions  to  FAMILY  ECONOMICS  AND  NUTRITION  REVIEW  (EAMER)  for  $8.00  per  year  ($10.00  foreign). 

(NOTE:  Formerly  EAMILY  ECONOMICS  REVIEW) 


The  total  cost  of  my  order  is  $. 


Price  includes  regular  domestic  postage  and  handling  and  is  subject  to  change. 


(Company  or  personal  name) 


(Please  type  or  print) 


(Additional  address/attention  line) 


(Street  address) 


(City.  State,  ZIP  Code) 


(Daytime  phone  including  area  code) 


(Purchase  Order  No.) 

For  privacy  protection,  check  the  box  below: 

□  Do  not  make  my  name  available  to  other  mailers. 


Please  cb 

□  Che 

□  GPC 

□  VIS 

oose  method  of  payment: 

ck  payable  to  the  Superintendent  of  Documents 

)  Deposit  Account 

J  1  1 

A  or  MasterCard  Account 

1  n  1  1  i  1  1 

1 

1 

(Credit  card  expiration  date) 

Thank  you  for 
your  order! 

iture) 

ndent  of  Documents 
irgh,  PA  15250-7954 

(Authorizing  Signt 

Mail  to:  New  Orders,  Superinte 
P.O.  Box  371954,  Pittsbu 

52 


Family  Elconomics  and  Nutrition  Review 


! 


o 

<-j 


C;  Sr' 
LTjo:: 


I 


cr 

CN 

CJD 

ZD 

s 

CD 

c-'j 


i  j 


<X.  ' 


UJ7~ 

^u: 

1 —  cr 

LUcTJ 


i 

J 


