Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


ft- 


United  States 
5  Department  of 
Agriculture 


Forest  Service 


Rocky  Mountain 
Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station 


Fort  Collins, 
Colorado  80526 


General  Technical 
Report  RM-251 


Research  Natural  Areas 

in  Colorado,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota, 
South  Dakota,  and  Parts  of  Wyoming 


Michael  G.  Ryan 
Linda  A.  Joyce 
Tom  Andrews 
Kate  Jones 


CO"1 

^2 

Go  a 
<  > 

r  > 
w  r 

8§  70 
^>  V 
>  O 

■r  a 
0  33 
x  0 

CP 

1 

■> 

c  tli 
-< 

Abstract 


Ryan,  Michael  G.;  Joyce,  Linda  A.;  Andrews,  Tom;  Jones,  Kate.  1994. 
Research  Natural  Areas  in  Colorado,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota, 
South  Dakota,  and  Parts  of  Wyoming.  Gen.  Tech.  Rep.  RM-251. 
Fort  Collins,  CO:  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service, 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station.  57  p. 

The  purpose  of  the  Research  Natural  Area  system  is  to  provide  a 
representative  range  of  undisturbed  sites  for  research,  monitoring, 
biodiversity  protection,  and  as  reference  areas  for  management  ac- 
tivities on  public  lands  administered  by  the  USDA  Forest  Service. 
This  publication  describes  the  location,  significant  features,  climate, 
flora,  fauna,  and  published  research  for  the  16  Research  Natural 
Areas  established  through  1993  on  Public  Lands  administered  by 
USDA  Forest  Service  in  Colorado,  Wyoming,  Nebraska,  North  Da- 
kota and  South  Dakota. 

Keywords:  Research  Natural  Areas,  biodiversity,  monitoring,  Colo- 
rado, Wyoming,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota,  South  Dakota 


USDA  Forest  Service 

General  Technical  Report  RM-251 


September  1994 


Research  Natural  Areas 


in  Colorado,  Wyoming,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota, 
South  Dakota,  and  Parts  of  Wyoming 

Michael  G.  Ryan,  Forest  Ecologist 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station1 

Linda  A.  Joyce,  Range  Ecologist 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station1 


'  Headquarters  is  in  Fort  Collins,  Colorado,  in  cooperation  with  Colorado  State  University. 
2  A  cooperative  position  with  The  Nature  Conservancy,  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and 
Range  Experiment  Station,  and  the  Rocky  Mountain  Region. 


Tom  Andrews,  RNA  Ecologist2 


Kate  Jones,  Technical  Writer 
506  West  Caley  Circle,  Littleton,  CO  80120 


Contents 

Page 

INTRODUCTION   1 

Research  Natural  Area  Program  in  the  Northern  Portion  of  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest 

and  Range  Experiment  Station   4 

Overview   4 

Management  of  Research  Natural  Areas    4 

The  Role  of  Research  Natural  Areas  in  Ecosystem  Management   4 

RNAs  as  Benchmarks   5 

The  RNA  System   5 

RNAs  as  Research  Sites   5 

RNAs  as  Sites  for  Biodiversity  Protection   6 

RNAs  in  Forest  Planning   6 

RNAs  in  Conservation  Partnerships   7 

Conducting  Research  on  RNAs   7 

What  are  Appropriate  Research  Activities  on  RNAs?   7 

Permission   7 

Responsibilities  of  Researchers   8 

For  More  Information   8 

Literature  Cited   8 

BULL  ELK  PARK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   10 

CAMPO  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   13 

ESCALANTE  CREEK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   16 

GOTHIC  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   19 

HURRICANE  CANYON  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   22 

LIMBER  PINE  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   24 

MOUNT  GOLIATH  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   28 

NARRAGUINNEP  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   31 

SADDLE  MOUNTAIN  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   34 

SHELL  CANYON  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   37 

SHEYENNE  SPRINGS  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   40 

SIGNAL  HILL  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   44 

SNOWY  RANGE  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   46 

TWO  TOP  AND  BIG  TOP  MESAS  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   49 

UPPER  PINE  CREEK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   52 

WILLIAMS  CREEK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA   55 


Research  Natural  Areas 
in  Colorado,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota, 
South  Dakota,  and  Parts  of  Wyoming 

Michael  G.  Ryan,  Linda  A.  Joyce,  Tom  Andrews,  and  Kate  Jones 


INTRODUCTION 

Research  Natural  Areas  (RNAs)  are  lands  that  are 
permanently  protected  for  the  purposes  of  maintain- 
ing biological  diversity,  conducting  nonmanipulative 
research,  monitoring  to  determine  the  effects  of  man- 
agement on  similar  ecosystems,  and  fostering  edu- 
cation. The  national  network  of  RNAs  is  designed  to 
represent  ecosystems  found  on  public  lands  admin- 
istered by  USDA  Forest  Service,  National  Forest  Sys- 
tems, and  also  to  conserve  unique  assemblages  of 
species  or  communities  of  scientific  interest.  In  RNAs 
throughout  the  country,  natural  conditions  are  al- 
lowed to  prevail  by  limiting  human  intervention. 
Other  federal  agencies  that  manage  public  lands  (for 
example,  USDI  National  Park  Service,  USDI  Bureau 
of  Land  Management,  USDI  Fish  and  Wildlife  Ser- 
vice) also  establish  RNAs  and  participate  in  devel- 
oping the  national  RNA  network. 

The  first  RNA,  Santa  Catalina  RNA  in  Arizona's 
Coronado  National  Forest,  was  established  in  1927. 
The  250th,  LaRue-Pine  Hill/Otter  Pond  RNA  in  Illi- 
nois, was  established  in  1991.  Throughout  the  inter- 
vening 64  years,  RNAs  have  helped  the  USDA  For- 
est Service  achieve  its  mission. 

From  the  USDA  Forest  Service  Manual  (FSM 
4063.02),  the  objectives  of  establishing  an  RNA  are: 

1)  To  preserve  a  wide  spectrum  of  pristine  areas 
that  represent  important  forest,  shrubland, 
grassland,  alpine,  aquatic,  geological,  and  simi- 
lar natural  situations  that  have  special  or  unique 
characteristics; 

2)  To  preserve  and  maintain  genetic  diversity; 

3)  To  protect  against  serious  environmental  disrup- 
tions; 

4)  To  serve  as  reference  areas  for  the  study  of  suc- 
cession; 

5)  To  provide  on-site  and  extension  educational 
activities; 


6)  To  serve  as  baseline  areas  for  measuring  long- 
term  ecological  changes; 

7)  To  serve  as  control  areas  for  comparing  results 
from  manipulative  research;  and 

8)  To  monitor  effects  of  resource  management  tech- 
niques and  practices. 

Researchers  from  the  USDA  Forest  Service  and 
elsewhere  use  RNAs  for  studies  that  do  not  modify 
natural  conditions.  The  research  and  monitoring 
done  on  RNAs,  in  turn,  allow  RNAs  to  serve  as  con- 
trols for  managed  forest  and  rangeland  ecosystems. 

Currently  there  are  16  RNAs  on  public  lands  ad- 
ministered by  the  USDA  Forest  Service  in  Colorado, 
Wyoming,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota,  and  South  Da- 
kota, the  northern  portion  of  the  territory  covered 
by  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment 
Station  (fig.  1).  The  size,  location,  primary  vegeta- 
tion, and  date  of  establishment  for  these  RNAs  are 
given  in  table  1.  Unfortunately,  these  16  RNAs  rep- 
resent only  a  small  fraction  of  the  diversity  of  plant 
communities  found  in  the  region  and,  to  date,  have 
been  sparsely  used  for  research.  Additionally,  many 
of  the  existing  RNAs  have  no  baseline  ecological  in- 
formation to  document  existing  conditions  and  to 
allow  researchers  to  assess  natural  change  over  time. 

We  hope  that  this  publication  will  aid  researchers 
interested  in  studying  natural  communities  and  en- 
courage research  on  the  region's  RNAs.  The  objec- 
tives of  this  publication  are  to:  (1)  describe  the  pro- 
cedure for  doing  scientific  research  on  RNAs,  (2)  de- 
scribe the  potential  role  of  RNAs  in  ecosystem  man- 
agement and  the  current  management  of  RNAs,  (3) 
briefly  describe  the  RNA  program  in  the  northern 
portion  of  the  territory  covered  by  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tain Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station,  and  (4) 
present  a  summary  of  the  information  available  for 
each  established  Research  Natural  Area.  The  infor- 
mation for  each  RNA  includes  location  and  access,  a 
short  overview,  and  capsule  summaries  of  physiog- 


1 


Figure  1.  —  Location  of  RNAs  in  Colorado,  Wyoming,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota,  and  South  Dakota. 
Shaded  areas  are  public  lands  administered  by  USDA  Forest  Service. 


raphy,  geology,  soils,  flora,  and  fauna  of  each  RNA. 
In  addition,  the  entry  for  each  RNA  lists  status  and 
administration  information  and  any  publications  that 
have  resulted  from  scientific  work  done  on  the  RNA. 

The  information  contained  in  this  publication  was 
taken  from  original  establishment  records  for  the 


RNAs,  as  well  as  reports  on  site  visits  and  other  ma- 
terial on  file  at  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station  in  Fort  Collins,  Colorado.  In  cases 
where  scientific  or  common  names  within  the  indi- 
vidual files  were  missing  or  incomplete,  Armstrong 
(1987),  Behler  (1979),  Great  Plains  Flora  Association 


2 


Table  1. 

—  Location,  primary  vegetation  type,  size,  and  date  established  for  RNAs  on  National  Forest  lands 
in  Colorado,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota,  South  Dakota,  and  parts  of  Wyoming. 

Name 

Location  (national  forest, 
ranger  district,  state) 

Primary 
vegetation 

Area 
(ha) 

Date 

established 

Bull  Elk  Pork 

Bighorn  NF,  Tongue  RD, 
Wyoming 

Lodgepole  pine  - 
montane  grassland 

291 

1952 

Campo 

Pike  and  San  Isabel  NFs. 
Comanche  National  Grassland, 
Carrizo  and  Timpas  Units.  Colorado 

Shortgrass  prairie, 

blue-grama, 

buffalo-grass 

14 

1987 

Escolante  Creek 

Grand  Mesa,  Uncompahgre,  and 
Gunnison  NFs,  Ouray  RD,  Colorado 

Blue  spruce 
riparian  area 

18 

1985 

Gothic 

Grand  Mesa,  Uncompahgre,  and 
Gunnison  NFs,  Taylor  River 
RD,  Colorado 

Spruce-fir  and 
alpine 

425 

1931, 1959 

Hurricane  Canyon 

Pike  and  San  Isabel  NFs, 
Pikes  Peak  RD,  Colorado 

Ponderosa  pine, 
Douglas-fir 

211 

1931 

Limber  Pine 

Custer  NF,  Little  Missouri 
National  Grasslands,  Medora 
RD,  North  Dakota 

Limber  pine,  plains 
shrubland,  plains 
grassland 

276 

1991 

Mount  C^nlinth 

Arapaho  and  Roosevelt  NFs, 
Clear  Creek  RD,  Colorado 

Bristlecone  pine 

65 

1950 

Nnrrnm  linnpri 

i  n  wi  i    y  i_ii i  ii  10^ 

San  Juan  NF,  Dolores  RD, 
Colorado 

Ponderosa  pine, 
pinyon-juniper 

781 

1932,  1962 

Saddle  Mountain 

Pike  and  San  Isabel  NFs, 
South  Park  RD,  Colorado 

Montane  grassland, 
aspen,  Engelmann  spruce 

194 

1951 

Shell  Canyon 

Bighorn  NF,  Paintrock  RD,  Wyoming 

Rocky  Mountain  juniper 

295 

1987 

Sheyenne  Springs 

Custer  NF,  Sheyenne  National 
Grassland,  Sheyenne  RD,  North  Dakota 

Wetland  complex 

23 

1992 

Signal  Hill 

Nebraska  NF,  Bessey  RD,  Nebraska 

Sandhills  grassland 

283 

1950 

Snowy  Range 

Medicine  Bow  NF,  Laramie  RD, 
Wyoming 

Spruce-fir, 
lodgepole  pine 

312 

1936 

Two  Top  and  Big  Top 

Mocnc 
IVIcoUo 

Custer  NF,  Little  Missouri 
National  Grasslands,  Medora  RD, 
North  Dakota 

Mid-grass  prairie 

32 

1973 

Upper  Pine  Creek 

Black  Hills  NF,  Harney  RD, 
South  Dakota 

Ponderosa  pine 

482 

1931 

Williams  Creek 

San  Juan  NF,  Pagosa  RD, 
Colorado 

White  fir 

220 

1987 

(1986),  Scott  (1987),  Weber  (1976),  Welch  et  al.  (1987), 
and  Whitaker  (1980)  provided  species  information. 
Soil  classification  is  given  as  listed  in  the  establish- 
ment records;  we  did  not  update  soils  information 
with  the  new  taxonomy. 

The  climate  information  for  the  RNAs  was  taken 
from  the  nearest  NOAA  weather  station  that  re- 
corded both  temperature  and  precipitation.  Because 
the  RNAs  are  usually  in  remote  areas  with  rugged 


terrain,  these  nearby  weather  stations  often  poorly 
reflect  the  actual  climate  at  the  RNA.  Climate  data 
were  plotted  using  a  suggestion  by  Walter  (1973) 
where  the  ordinate  represents  either  20  mm  of  pre- 
cipitation or  10  °C  of  temperature.  With  this  scheme, 
when  the  line  that  represents  average  monthly  tem- 
perature is  greater  than  the  line  that  represents  aver- 
age monthly  precipitation,  the  site  experiences 
drought  conditions. 


3 


Research  Natural  Area  Program  in  the 
Northern  Portion  of  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station 

Overview 

The  purpose  of  the  RNA  system  is  to  provide  a 
representative  range  of  undisturbed  sites  for  research, 
monitoring,  biodiversity  protection,  and  as  reference 
areas  for  management  activities  on  public  lands  ad- 
ministered by  the  USDA  Forest  Service.  Toward  this 
end,  several  tools  have  been  developed  to  aid  estab- 
lishment and  use  of  RNAs.  These  include: 

1)  A  matrix  of  plant  communities  proposed  for  in- 
clusion in  the  RNA  system,  together  with  the 
location  of  these  communities  on  national  for- 
ests and  grasslands. 

2)  Criteria  for  RNA  selection. 

3)  RNA  Management  Area  Prescription. 

4)  Procedures  for  establishing  RNAs,  and  samples 
of  documents  necessary  for  establishment,  in- 
cluding an  Ecological  Evaluation,  an  Establish- 
ment Record,  and  Ecological  Assessment. 

These  documents  have  been  assembled  into  the 
Research  Natural  Area  Guide  for  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tain Region.  Both  the  guide  and  sample  documents 
are  available  from: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 

Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station 

240  West  Prospect  Road 

Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 

(303)  498-1100 

Management  of  Research  Natural  Areas 

RNAs  are  managed  according  to  RNA  manage- 
ment area  prescriptions  contained  in  Forest  Manage- 
ment Plans.  These  prescriptions  call  for  maintaining 
the  area  in  as  near  a  pristine  state  as  possible.  Log- 
ging, new  roads  or  trails  (except  to  correct  resource 
damage),  and  developed  recreation  are  prohibited, 
as  is  any  manipulative  research.  Grazing  is  permit- 
ted only  to  maintain  the  natural  vegetation.  Fires  are 
allowed  to  burn  in  RNAs,  unless  they  endanger  the 
RNA  or  threaten  persons  or  property  outside  the 
RNA.  No  action  will  be  taken  against  endemic  in- 
sects, diseases,  or  wild  animals.  Further  information 
about  the  management  of  RNAs  and  a  sample 
management  area  prescription  can  be  found  in  the 
Research  Natural  Area  Guide  for  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tain Region. 


The  Role  of  Research  Natural  Areas  in 
Ecosystem  Management 

Ecosystem  management  is  an  evolving  approach 
to  resource  management  within  the  USDA  Forest 
Service  (Robertson  1992)  and  other  land  management 
agencies.  One  definition  of  ecosystem  management 
is  the  management  of  biological,  physical,  and  hu- 
man components  and  processes  of  ecosystems  in 
ways  that  maintain  sustainable  ecological  processes, 
biodiversity,  environmental  quality,  and  the  produc- 
tion of  resource  commodities  and  amenities  (Agee 
and  Johnston  1988,  Estill  and  Montrey  1992,  Jensen 
and  Bourgeron  1993).  Ecosystem  management  inte- 
grates ecosystem  components,  processes,  and  re- 
source uses  (Salwasser  1992a,  1992b;  USDA  Forest 
Service  1992a).  Ecosystem  and  social  sustainability 
are  the  cornerstones  of  a  holistic  approach  to  ecosys- 
tem management  (Estill  and  Hemstrom,  1993; 
Overbay  1992;  Rowe  1992). 

Biodiversity  and  biological  processes  occur  at  ge- 
netic, species,  population,  community,  ecosystem, 
landscape,  and  regional  scales  and  need  to  be  man- 
aged over  a  variety  of  spatial  and  temporal  scales 
(Franklin  1992,  Noss  1983).  Ecosystem  sustainability 
requires  the  maintenance  of  the  diversity  of  plant  and 
animal  species  and  natural  processes  such  as  succes- 
sion, disturbance,  and  evolution  (Agee  and  Johnson 
1988;  Estill  and  Hemstrom,  1993).  Combining  this  re- 
quirement with  the  necessity  of  producing  wood, 
forage,  water,  and  recreational  opportunities  is  of- 
ten a  challenge  and  occasionally  a  conundrum.  Some 
areas  of  National  Forest  System  lands  have  departed 
significantly  from  their  natural  condition  (Franklin 
1992,  Noss  1987b).  "Natural,"  like  the  word  "ecosys- 
tem," has  many  potential  meanings.  For  our  pur- 
poses, natural  condition  will  mean  presettlement  or 
our  estimate  of  the  condition  that  an  ecosystem 
would  be  in  if  settlement  by  people  from  Europe, 
Asia,  and  Africa  in  the  last  several  centuries  had  not 
occurred — ecosystems  with  relatively  intact  evolu- 
tionary relationships  (Hoerr  1993,  Maser  1990).  Some 
lands  have  been  through  many  timber  rotations, 
planted  with  monocultures  of  genetically  similar 
trees,  or  grazed  by  domestic  livestock  for  decades. 
Some  lands  have  been  invaded  by  normative  weed  spe- 
cies, while  others  are  heavily  impacted  by  recreation. 
Many  of  these  departures  from  a  natural  condition  oc- 
curred on  lands  before  they  became  a  part  of  the  Na- 
tional Forest  System.  As  human  demands  increase, 
fewer  examples  of  natural  ecosystems  remain,  and  some 


managed  lands  retreat  further  from  their  natural  con- 
dition (Moir  1972,  Noss  1987b,  Odum  and  Odum  1972). 

To  reduce  the  risk  associated  with  our  limited 
knowledge  and  to  insure  ecosystem  health,  diversity, 
and  sustainability,  it  is  prudent  to  manage  some  eco- 
systems within  their  range  of  natural  variability 
(Estill  and  Hemstrom,  1993;  Jensen  and  Bourgeron 
1993).  It  is  difficult  to  determine  the  range  of  natural 
variability  without  reference  to  areas  such  as  RNAs, 
which  are  relatively  undisturbed  by  humans. 

RNAs  as  Benchmarks 

Many  management  activities  on  National  Forest 
System  lands  can  be  thought  of  as  experiments.  The 
outcome  of  these  experiments  in  boardfeet,  animal 
unit  months,  or  public  satisfaction  is  often  well 
known.  However,  many  important  phenomena,  in- 
cluding changes  in  vegetation,  animal  populations,  soil 
quantity  and  quality,  plant  susceptibility  to  insect  and 
disease  epidemics,  and  changes  in  future  productivity, 
are  often  incompletely  understood  (Franklin  1992). 

If  Forest  Service  management  is  an  "experiment," 
then  reference  points  are  necessary  to  evaluate  the 
success  of  the  experiment.  This  function  of  being  a 
reference  or  benchmark  is  one  of  the  principal  val- 
ues of  RNAs,  which  are  among  the  least  modified 
sites  on  Forest  Service  lands  (Loop  1986,  Tippets  1990, 
USD  A  Forest  Service  1992b).  Whether  we  want  to 
monitor  site  productivity,  soil  loss,  populations  of 
small  mammals,  neotropical  bird  migrants,  indica- 
tor species,  the  health  of  endangered  species  popu- 
lations, nutrient  cycling,  amounts  of  coarse  woody 
debris,  or  the  impacts  of  road  density  on  elk  popula- 
tions, reference  points  are  necessary.  In  Forest  Ser- 
vice monitoring,  standards  to  which  managed  lands 
can  be  compared  will  often  be  essential. 

As  an  example,  on  a  Forest  Service  allotment  in 
the  Southwest  it  was  argued  that  obvious  gullying 
and  erosion  were  more  the  result  of  weather  and  frag- 
ile soils  than  of  cattle  grazing.  A  designated  natural 
area  with  similar  fragile  soils,  climate,  and  vegeta- 
tion, but  no  recent  livestock  grazing,  provided  a  ref- 
erence, showing  that  the  grazed  lands  had  erosional 
rates  and  vegetation  loss  far  outside  the  range  of 
natural  variability.  Livestock  grazing  regimes  have 
economic,  cultural,  and  political,  as  well  as  biologi- 
cal, consequences.  Yet,  without  a  firm  grasp  of  eco- 
logical reality,  which  RNAs  can  often  provide,  the  en- 
vironmental analysis  required  by  NEPA  may  rest  on  a 
poor  foundation,  ecosystem  sustainability  may  dimin- 
ish, and  the  future  needs  of  society  may  not  be  met. 


The  RNA  System 

Wilderness,  special  interest  areas,  RNAs,  and  other 
natural  areas  can  all  help  provide  the  references  nec- 
essary for  management  and  environmental  analysis. 
Among  these,  the  Research  Natural  Area  system  is 
unique  because  of  its  goal  of  providing  high  quality, 
relatively  pristine,  representative  examples  of  the  full 
range  of  ecosystem  types  that  occur  on  National  For- 
est System  lands.  To  be  useful  for  management  com- 
parison, the  RNA  system  should  include  good  ex- 
amples of  the  most  productive  lands  in  the  National 
Forest  System. 

Ideally,  the  RNA  system  should  represent  a  sub- 
stantial portion  of  the  variability  in  national  forest 
ecosystems,  including  variability  in  biota,  landforms, 
geology,  soils,  climate,  successional  stages,  distur- 
bance regimes,  and  other  ecological  processes.  Since 
the  variation  in  plant  communities  often  reflects  other 
forms  of  biotic  and  abiotic  variation  (Daubenmire 
1976,  Pfister  and  Arno  1980),  plant  communities  have 
been  chosen  initially  for  defining  the  RNA  system. 
These  communities  have  been  identified  at  the  plant 
association,  plant  series,  or  higher  plant  community 
levels  by  most  regions.  Advances  in  Forest  Service 
hierarchical  ecological  maps,  Integrated  Resource 
Inventories,  and  GIS  systems  will  help  refine  the 
RNA  system,  measure  its  representativeness,  and 
make  it  more  valuable  as  a  comparative  tool  in  eco- 
system management. 

Research  Natural  Areas  need  to  be  large  enough 
to  encompass  a  mosaic  of  successional  stages  and 
disturbance  patterns,  as  well  as  a  wide  range  of  bi- 
otic and  abiotic  variability.  Large  size  will  help  main- 
tain natural  processes  and  viable  animal  and  plant 
populations  and  minimize  deleterious  edge  effects. 
Research  in  conservation  biology  has  shown  that  the 
integrity  and  value  of  natural  areas  increases  signifi- 
cantly with  size  (Baker  1992,  Noss  1987b,  Saunders 
et  al.  1991,  Soule  and  Simberloff  1986). 

RNAs  as  Research  Sites 

Closely  related  to  the  important  function  of  RNAs 
as  reference  areas  is  their  availability  as  sites  for  sci- 
entific research.  Ecosystem  management  implies  an 
understanding  of  how  ecosystems  operate  (Salwasser 
1992a).  Unfortunately,  our  understanding  of  ecosys- 
tems and  how  humans  affect  and  are  affected  by  eco- 
logical processes  is  fairly  rudimentary.  RNAs  can 
serve  as  sites  to  investigate  the  functioning  of  eco- 
systems in  landscapes  and  the  sustainability  of  both 
ecosystem  processes  and  community  components. 


5 


Plant  and  animal  species  have  evolved  adaptations 
to  each  other  and  to  their  environment,  which  are 
expressed  in  complex  patterns  of  succession,  preda- 
tion,  herbivory,  parasitism,  pollination,  dispersal,  and 
survival.  These  biological  relationships,  in  turn,  are 
influenced  by  patterns  of  natural  disturbance,  geo- 
morphic  processes,  and  climate  change.  Because  spe- 
cies and  their  complex  interactions  have  evolved  and 
continue  to  evolve  in  natural  ecosystems,  they  are 
best  studied  in  areas  that  have  undergone  minimal 
human  disturbance  (Bildstein  and  Brisbin  1990,  Moir 
1972).  We  also  know  that  some  of  our  "natural"  eco- 
systems have  been  influenced  by  thousands  of  years 
of  human  disturbance,  such  as  the  burning  of  grass- 
lands by  Native  Americans  (Hoerr  1993).  This  knowl- 
edge will  influence  our  management  of  some  RNAs 
and  other  National  Forest  System  lands. 

The  RNA  system  is  intended  to  include  the  full 
array  of  terrestrial  and  aquatic  ecosystems  for  the 
scientific  research  necessary  for  ecosystem  manage- 
ment. RNAs  provide  an  opportunity  for  studying  the 
same  ecological  process  over  a  range  of  ecosystem 
types.  Baseline  data  and  long-term  ecological  re- 
search on  RNAs  will  provide  an  important  body  of 
information  for  land  and  water  management.  These 
data  and  research  from  RNAs  will  be  useful  for  cu- 
mulative effects  analysis  on  similar  managed  ecosys- 
tems and  for  investigating  the  impacts  of  global  cli- 
mate change  (Franklin  1992).  RNAs  are  great  natu- 
ral libraries,  "unconditional  gifts  of  potential  knowl- 
edge for  the  future"  (Maser  1990). 

Scientific  information  from  RNAs  can  change  our 
basic  understanding  of  ecological  processes  and  of- 
fer important  guidance  for  ecosystem  management. 
As  an  example,  old-growth  forests  have  been  previ- 
ously characterized  as  decadent  stands  with  little 
productivity.  Permanent  plots  dating  from  the  1930s 
on  an  RNA  in  the  Pacific  Northwest  have  docu- 
mented that  some  old-growth  forests  have  much 
higher  levels  of  productivity  than  previously  thought 
possible.  In  the  increasingly  complicated  times  ahead, 
scientific  research  on  minimally  disturbed  ecosys- 
tems will  be  essential  to  the  task  of  successfully  man- 
aging National  Forest  System  lands. 

RNAs  as  Sites  for  Biodiversity  Protection 

The  protection  of  biodiversity  is  an  important  goal 
of  ecosystem  management  (Estill  and  Hemstrom, 
1993;  Salwasser  1992b).  RNAs  and  other  protected 
natural  areas  harbor  only  a  small  portion  of  the  total 
biodiversity  on  National  Forest  System  lands.  Nev- 


ertheless, a  system  of  RNAs,  composed  of  the  best 
remaining  examples  of  most  ecosystem  types,  is  a 
significant  contribution  to  biodiversity  protection  in 
its  own  right.  Because  we  know  so  little  about  the 
diversity  of  nonvascular  plants,  soil  microflora  and 
fauna,  terrestrial  and  aquatic  invertebrates,  and  many 
other  elements  of  biodiversity  (as  well  as  the  com- 
plex relationships  and  processes  that  connect  them) 
(Brussard  1991),  the  RNA  system  helps  provide  a 
safety  net,  a  form  of  insurance  against  the  loss  of  spe- 
cies and  biotic  communities.  This  is  an  important 
aspect  of  a  coarse  filter  approach  to  protecting 
biodiversity  (Hunter  1991). 

Additionally,  many  RNAs  offer  protection  for 
populations  of  threatened,  endangered,  and  sensi- 
tive species  and  for  rare  and  sensitive  plant  commu- 
nities and  animal  habitats  (the  fine  filter  approach) 
(Hunter  1991).  In  California  alone,  more  than  132  rare 
plant  species  are  found  on  Forest  Service  RNAs 
(Keeler-Wolf  1990).  RNAs  can  provide  benchmarks 
for  evaluating  the  success  of  biodiversity  protection 
on  National  Forest  System  lands  and  help  meet  some 
of  the  legal  obligations  for  protection  and  monitor- 
ing required  by  the  National  Forest  Management  Act, 
the  National  Environmental  Policy  Act,  and  the  En- 
dangered Species  Act  (USD A  Forest  Service  1990). 

RNAs  are  embedded  in  a  matrix  of  lands  with 
many  different  management  prescriptions.  Within 
the  larger  managed  landscape,  some  RNAs  may  func- 
tion as  core  areas  for  the  maintenance  of  genetic  di- 
versity and  sensitive  species,  or,  in  a  few  circum- 
stances, an  individual  RNA  might  serve  as  a  corri- 
dor for  dispersal  and  migration  of  some  plant  and 
animal  species  (Crow  1991;  Noss  1987a,  1987b).  RNAs 
are  not  isolated  units;  they  are  integral  parts  of  a  land- 
scape mosaic  which  needs  to  be  managed  as  a  whole. 
The  surrounding  landscape  will  occasionally  need 
to  be  managed  to  insure  the  integrity  of  RNAs.  Co- 
ordination and  cooperation  across  ownership  bound- 
aries may  be  necessary  to  help  insure  this  integrity. 
RNAs  are  generally  a  direct  benefit  to  biodiversity 
at  most  of  the  spatial  and  temporal  scales  implicit  in 
ecosystem  management. 

RNAs  in  Forest  Planning 

RNAs  can  contribute  to  the  land  and  resource 
management  planning  process  by  providing  models 
for  some  of  the  landscape  features  the  Forest  Service 
would  like  to  include,  extend,  or  restore.  Informa- 
tion provided  by  RNAs  can  help  achieve  desired  con- 
ditions on  most  National  Forest  System  lands.  By 


6 


identifying  sites  that  fill  gaps  in  the  RNA  system  and 
by  developing  management  plans  for  RNAs,  national 
forests  and  grasslands  can  make  valuable  contribu- 
tions to  ecosystem  management.  RNAs  will  also  pro- 
vide useful  tools  for  helping  to  insure  that  Forest 
Service  management  activities  meet  the  environmen- 
tal requirements  of  the  law.  Ecological  research,  of 
the  kind  performed  on  RNAs,  needs  greater  recog- 
nition for  its  importance  to  society  and  as  one  of  the 
significant  multiple-uses  of  public  lands. 

RNAs  in  Conservation  Partnerships 

Developing  constructive  partnerships  is  a  tenet  of 
ecosystem  management  (Agee  and  Johnson  1988, 
USD  A  Forest  Service  1992a).  Many  individuals  and 
organizations  have  a  great  interest  in  RNA  programs, 
including  state  Natural  Heritage  and  Natural  Areas 
programs,  The  Nature  Conservancy,  Native  Plant 
Societies,  many  academic  institutions,  and  the  scien- 
tific community  at  large.  Conservation  partnerships 
with  these  diverse  parties  have  been  of  mutual  ben- 
efit to  both  the  public  and  the  Forest  Service.  State- 
wide conservation  planning,  in  which  Forest  Service 
RNA  programs  play  a  key  role,  can  forge  effective 
working  partnerships  between  government  agencies, 
private  organizations,  and  the  scientific  community 
(Department  of  Natural  Resources  1987,  Loop  1986). 
RNAs  can  be  effectively  used  as  interpretive  and 
educational  tools  to  demonstrate  the  scientific  basis 
for  land  management  and  to  increase  dialogue  with 
the  public.  Within  the  Forest  Service,  RNAs  provide 
an  important  bridge  between  the  concerns  of  research 
and  National  Forest  Systems. 

In  the  future,  Research  Natural  Areas  will  be  one 
of  the  more  useful  tools  available  to  the  Forest  Ser- 
vice for  improving  and  evaluating  the  success  of  eco- 
system management.  Because  of  the  multiple  pur- 
poses they  serve  and  the  important  biodiversity  and 
ecosystem  processes  they  harbor,  RNAs  have  high 
value  for  present  and  future  generations. 

Conducting  Research  on  RNAs 

The  use  of  RNAs  for  research  is  encouraged  be- 
cause research  activities  will  help  us  better  under- 
stand natural  processes.  Additionally,  research  data, 
while  limited  in  scope,  will  help  provide  baseline  or 
background  information  useful  for  assessing  change 
in  the  future.  Research  must  be  "nonmanipulative" 
and  "nondestructive."  That  is,  research  must  not  dis- 
rupt either  the  community  structure  or  populations 


of  individual  species  of  plants  or  animals.  Research 
also  must  not  alter  the  biogeochemical  functioning 
of  the  ecosystem. 

What  are  Appropriate  Research  Activities 
on  RNAs? 

Disturbance  caused  by  research  is  a  concern  be- 
cause we  do  not  want  research  activities  to  change 
these  ecosystems.  However,  for  RNAs  to  serve  as 
controls  for  managed  ecosystems,  some  sampling  is 
required.  The  disturbance  caused  by  research  might 
be  ranked  along  a  continuum  from  effectively  no  dis- 
turbance to  activities  that  could  alter  organism  popu- 
lations and  ecosystem  function.  For  example:  satel- 
lite observations  <  aerial  observations  <  walk- 
through survey  <  frequent  walk-through  surveys  < 
permanent  plots  (tagged  trees,  etc.)  <  sample  collec- 
tion (herbarium  samples;  soil,  water,  foliage  samples 
for  chemical  analysis;  tagging  and  releasing  insects, 
birds,  or  mammals;  coring  trees)  <  harvesting  (un- 
derstory  plots;  trees;  insect,  bird,  or  mammal  collec- 
tions; extensive  soil  sampling  (soil  pits))  <  manipu- 
lating ecosystem  resources  (water,  nutrients,  light, 
temperature)  <  manipulating  populations  (herbicide, 
insecticide,  or  fungicide  application;  large-scale  har- 
vesting). 

While  it  is  easy  to  decide  the  permissibility  of  ac- 
tivities at  both  ends  of  the  continuum  (experimental 
manipulations  are  forbidden),  activities  in  the  middle 
are  problematic.  Decisions  about  whether  an  activ- 
ity is  appropriate  will  consider: 

1)  Size  of  the  RNA  or  feature  of  the  RNA  (a  more 
diffuse  sample  will  likely  have  less  impact). 

2)  Whether  the  activity  (collection  or  census)  is  to 
be  done  to  a  rare,  sensitive,  threatened,  or  en- 
dangered species. 

3)  Frequency  of  the  activity. 

In  general,  where  RNAs  serve  as  representative 
controls,  small  sample  collections  (herbarium 
samples;  soil,  water,  foliage  samples  for  chemical 
analysis;  tagging  and  releasing  insects,  birds,  or  mam- 
mals; coring  trees)  and  permanent  plots  should  be 
permitted  and  encouraged.  Where  RNAs  contain 
unique  features,  special  care  must  be  taken  not  to 
disturb  these  features. 

Permission 

Permission  for  research  on  RNAs  should  be  ob- 
tained from  the  RNA  Coordinator  for  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station  (for- 


7 


mally,  the  station  director),  and  the  district  ranger 
where  the  RNA  is  located.  If  the  RNA  is  located  in  a 
designated  wilderness  area,  research  use  of  the  area 
must  also  be  approved  by  the  regional  forester. 

Responsibilities  of  Researchers 

Anyone  conducting  research  on  RNAs  must: 

1)  Request  permission  from  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station  RNA  Co- 
ordinator with  a  short  (1-page)  proposal  or  let- 
ter outlining  the  research  activity,  proposed  sam- 
pling, and  frequency.  The  RNA  Coordinator  will 
forward  the  request  to  the  appropriate  district 
ranger  after  determining  that  the  proposed  re- 
search is  appropriate  for  the  RNA. 

2)  Submit  a  summary  of  the  collected  data  at  the 
end  of  the  field  portion  of  the  study  to  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station. 
Or,  if  the  length  of  the  study  exceeds  5  years, 
submit  a  summary  of  the  collected  data  after 
every  5  years  to  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and 
Range  Experiment  Station.  Data  collected  will 
become  part  of  the  permanent  record  on  the 
RNA  and  aid  future  researchers. 

3)  Submit  copies  of  any  reports  or  publications 
using  data  collected  in  the  RNA  to  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station 
and  the  district  ranger. 

4)  Take  care  to  keep  sampling  and  disturbance 
minimal  and  unobtrusive.  Remove  any  research 
materials  at  the  end  of  the  study. 

5)  Personally  contact  the  district  ranger  before  ini- 
tiating field  work. 

For  More  Information 

Scientists  interested  in  obtaining  permission  to 
conduct  research  on  a  Research  Natural  Area  on  Na- 
tional Forest  Lands  in  Colorado,  Wyoming,  Nebraska, 
North  Dakota,  and  South  Dakota  should  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 

Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station 

240  West  Prospect  Road 

Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 

(303)  498-1100 

Acknowledgments 

We  thank  Barry  Johnston,  Angela  Evenden,  John  Lund- 
quist,  and  Craig  Yancey  for  providing  photographs  of 


Research  Natural  Areas;  Angela  Evenden  and  Betsy 
Neely  for  valuable  comments  on  an  earlier  draft;  and 
all  those  who  make  Research  Natural  Areas  possible. 

Literature  Cited 

Agee,  J.K.;  Johnston,  D.R.  1988.  Ecosystem  manage- 
ment for  parks  and  wilderness.  Seattle,  WA:  Uni- 
versity of  Washington  Press.  237  p. 

Armstrong,  D.M.  1987.  Rocky  Mountain  mammals: 
A  handbook  of  mammals  in  Rocky  Mountain  Na- 
tional Park  and  vicinity.  Boulder,  CO:  Colorado 
Associated  University  Press.  237  p. 

Baker,  W.L.  1992.  The  landscape  ecology  of  large  dis- 
turbances in  the  design  and  management  of  na- 
ture reserves.  Landscape  Ecology.  7: 181-194. 

Behler,  J.L.,  ed.  1979.  The  Audubon  Society  field  guide 
to  North  American  reptiles  and  amphibians.  New 
York:  Alfred  A.  Knopf.  719  p. 

Bildstein,  K.L.;  Brisbin,  I.L.  1990.  Lands  for  long-term 
research  in  conservation  biology.  Conservation 
Biology.  4:  301-308. 

Brussard,  PF.  1991.  The  role  of  ecology  in  biological 
conservation.  Ecological  Applications.  1:  6-12. 

Crow,  T.  1991.  Landscape  ecology:  The  big  picture 
approach  to  resource  management.  In:  Decker,  D.J. 
et  al.,  eds.  Challenges  in  the  conservation  of  biologi- 
cal resources:  Boulder,  CO:  Westview  Press:  55-65. 

Daubenmire,  R.F  1976.  The  use  of  vegetation  in  as- 
sessing the  productivity  of  forest  lands.  Botanical 
Review.  42:  115-143. 

Department  of  Natural  Resources,  Washington  State. 
1987.  State  of  Washington  Natural  Heritage  Plan. 
Olympia,  WA:  Department  of  Natural  Resources. 
108  p. 

Estill,  E.;  Montrey,  H.  1992.  The  Rocky  Mountain 
Region  and  Rocky  Mountain  Station  joint  strategy 
for  implementing  ecosystem  management.  1992 
September  4.  Denver,  CO:  U.S.  Department  of  Ag- 
riculture, Forest  Service,  Rocky  Mountain  Region. 
21  p. 

Estill,  E.;  Hemstrom,  M.  [1993].  Sustainable  forestry. 
George  Wright  Forum.  10(2):  63-71. 

Franklin,  J.F  1992.  Scientific  basis  for  new  perspec- 
tives in  forests  and  streams.  In:  Naiman,  R.J.,  ed. 
Watershed  Management:  Balancing  sustainability 
and  environmental  change.  New  York:  Springer- 
Verlag:  25-72. 

Great  Plains  Flora  Association.  1986.  Flora  of  the 
Great  Plains.  Lawrence,  KS:  University  of  Kansas 
Press.  1402  p. 


8 


Hoerr,  W.  1993.  The  concept  of  naturalness  in  environ- 
mental discourse.  Natural  Areas  Journal.  13:  29-32. 

Hunter,  M.L.  1991.  Coping  with  ignorance:  the 
coarse-filter  strategy  for  maintaining  biodiversity. 
In:  Korn,  K.A.,  ed.  Balancing  on  the  brink  of  ex- 
tinction— the  endangered  species  act  and  lessons 
for  the  future.  Washington,  DC:  Island  Press:  266- 
281. 

Jensen,  M.E.;  Bourgeron,  P.S.  1993.  Ecosystem  man- 
agement: Principles  and  applications.  Missoula, 
MT:  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Ser- 
vice, Northern  Region.  397  p. 

Keeler-Wolf,  T.  1990.  Ecological  surveys  of  Forest 
Service  research  natural  areas  in  California.  Gen. 
Tech.  Rep.  PSW-125.  Berkeley.  CA:  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  Pacific  Southwest  Research 
Station.  177  p. 

Loop,  D.J.  1986.  Montana  natural  areas  conference 
proceedings.  Helena,  MO:  The  Nature  Conser- 
vancy. 159  p. 

Maser,  C.  1990.  On  the  naturalness  of  natural  areas: 
a  perspective  for  the  future.  Natural  Areas  Jour- 
nal. 10: 129-133. 

Moir,  W.H.  1972.  Natural  areas.  Science.  177: 396-100. 

Noss,  R.  1983.  A  regional  landscape  approach  to 
maintain  diversity.  Bioscience.  33:  700-706. 

Noss,  R.  1987a.  Corridors  in  real  landscapes:  A  reply 
to  Simberloff  and  Cox.  Conservation  Biology.  1: 
159-164. 

Noss,  R.  1987b.  Protecting  natural  areas  in  fragmented 
landscapes.  Natural  Areas  Journal.  7: 2-13. 

Odum,  E.P;  Odum,  H.T  1972.  Natural  areas  as  nec- 
essary components  of  man's  total  environment. 
Transactions  of  the  North  American  Wildlife  and 
Natural  Resources  Conference.  37: 178-189. 

Overbay,  J.C.  1992.  Ecosystem  management.  Deliv- 
ered at  the  national  workshop  on  "Taking  an  eco- 
logical approach  to  management."  1992  April  27: 
Salt  Lake  City.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service.  5  p. 

Pfister,  R.D.;  Arno,  S.F.  1980.  Classifying  forest  habi- 
tat types  based  on  potential  climax  vegetation. 
Forest  Science.  26:  52-70. 

Robertson,  ED.  1992.  Ecosystem  management  of  the 
national  forests  and  grasslands.  Memo  to  regional 
foresters  and  station  directors.  1992  June  4.  Washington, 
DC:  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service.  8  p. 


Rowe,  J.S.  1992.  The  ecosystem  approach  to  forestland 
management.  The  Forestry  Chronicle.  68:  222-224. 

Salwasser,  H.  1992a.  Ecosystem  management.  Char- 
ter for  Washington  Office  Staff  and  Interdiscipli- 
nary Teams.  1992  July  28.  Washington,  DC:  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service. 

Salwasser,  H.  1992b.  From  new  perspectives  to  eco- 
system management:  response  to  Frissel  et  al.  and 
Lawrence  and  Murphy.  Conservation  Biology. 
6:  469-472. 

Saunders,  D.A.;  Hobbs,  R.J.;  Margules,  C.H.  1991. 
Biological  consequences  of  ecosystem  fragmen- 
tation: A  review.  Conservation  Biology.  5:  18-32. 

Scott,  S.L.,  ed.  1987.  Field  guide  to  the  birds  of  North 
America,  2d  ed.  Washington,  DC:  National  Geo- 
graphic Society.  464  p. 

Soule,  M.E.;  Simberloff,  D.  1986.  What  do  genetics 
and  ecology  tell  us  about  the  design  of  nature  re- 
serves? Biological  Conservation.  35:  19-40. 

Tippets,  D.  1990.  Preserving  research  natural  areas. 
1990  December:  Forestry  Research  West:  10-16. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service.  1990. 
USDA  Forest  Service  Manual  (FSM  4063).  Wash- 
ington, DC:  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  For- 
est Service. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service.  1992a. 
Ecosystem  management  principles.  Summary  rec- 
ommendations from  "Taking  an  ecological  ap- 
proach to  management"  workshop.  1992  April  27- 
30;  Salt  Lake  City,  UT.  Washington,  DC:  U.S.  De- 
partment of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service. 
1992b.  Preparing  for  the  future:  Forest  Service  Re- 
search Natural  Areas.  FS-503.  Washington,  DC: 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service. 

Walter,  H.  1973.  Vegetation  of  the  Earth  in  relation  in 
climate  and  eco-physiological  conditions.  New 
York,  NY:  Springer- Verlag.  237  p. 

Weber,  WA.  1976.  Rocky  Mountain  flora.  Boulder, 
CO:  Colorado  Associated  University  Press.  479  p. 

Welsh,  S.L.;  Atwood,  N.D.;  Goodrich,  S.;  Higgins, 
L.C.,  eds.  1987.  A  Utah  flora.  Provo,  UT:  Brigham 
Young  University  Press.  (Great  Basin  Naturalist 
Memoirs  No.  9.) 

Whitaker,  J.O.,  Jr.,  ed.  1980.  The  Audubon  Society 
guide  to  North  American  mammals.  New  York: 
Alfred  A.  Knopf.  745  p. 


9 


BULL  ELK  PARK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Bull  Elk  Park  RNA  is  located  10  miles  northwest 
of  Burgess  Junction,  Sheridan  County,  Wyoming,  in 
the  Tongue  Ranger  District  of  the  Bighorn  National 
Forest.  The  RNA  occupies  portions  of  sections  19, 20, 
29,  30,  and  31  of  Township  57  North,  Range  89  West, 
Sixth  Principal  Meridian. 

To  reach  the  RNA  from  Burgess  Junction,  Wyo- 
ming, take  Forest  Road  15  (the  Burgess  road)  north- 
west, then  west  for  approximately  17  miles  to  the 
junction  with  Forest  Road  147.  You  can  take  this  four- 
wheel-drive  road  to  the  right  for  about  2  miles;  from 
this  point,  the  RNA  is  accessible  only  via  a  moderate 
4-mile  hike  on  Trail  #76  (fig.  1). 

Overview 

The  291 -hectare  Bull  Elk  Park  RNA  was  created  in 
1952  to  protect  Bull  Elk  Park  proper,  an  81 -hectare 
grassy  park  (fig.  2)  surrounded  by  lodgepole  pine, 
typical  of  the  grassland  types  that  cover  much  of  the 
tops  of  the  high  plateau  country  of  northern 
Wyoming's  Bighorn  Mountains.  The  park  lies  near 
the  end  of  a  long  point  that  extends  in  a  northeast- 
erly direction  toward  the  junction  of  Lick  Creek  and 
the  Dry  Fork  of  the  Bighorn  River  and  is  almost  iso- 


Figure  1.  —  Location  of  Bull  Elk  Park  RNA. 


lated  by  three  canyons.  The  only  point  of  access  is  a 
very  narrow  ridge  that  connects  the  area  to  the  main 
mass  of  the  Bighorn  Plateau.  Because  of  its  isolation, 
the  park  has  never  been  grazed  by  domestic  livestock 
and  contains  an  excellent  segment  of  pristine  grassland 
vegetation  that  is  grazed  by  elk  (Cervus  elaphus)  in  the 
spring  and  summer. 

Climate 

Climate  for  a  weather  station  near  Bull  Elk  Park  is 
summarized  in  figure  3.  The  average  annual  precipi- 
tation on  the  RNA  is  528  millimeters,  of  which  nearly 
60%  falls  during  the  April  to  September  warm  pe- 
riod. The  average  annual  temperature  is  0.6  °C.  Aver- 
age dates  for  the  last  killing  frost  range  from  June 
10-June  20.  The  earliest  killing  frost  usually  occurs 
around  August  30. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  RNA  is  a  part  of  the  northern  plateau  of  the 
Bighorn  Mountains.  Its  topography  is  dominated  by 
a  rolling,  dissected  plateau,  with  altitudes  ranging 
from  2134-2286  meters  above  sea  level.  Bull  Elk  Park 
proper  is  a  grassy  bald  that  is  almost  isolated  from 
the  rest  of  the  Bighorn  Plateau  by  three  deep,  steep- 
walled  canyons.  The  park  is  bisected  by  a  low  ridge 
that  extends  its  entire  length.  This  band  of  outcrops 
indicates  that  the  soil  is  derived  from  limestone  and 
shale.  Along  these  outcrops,  the  soil  is  shallow,  and 
plant  cover  is  sparse.  In  most  of  the  area,  however, 
the  soil  is  very  deep  and  consists  of  Lake  Creek  and 
Lick  Creek  loams,  with  high  organic  content. 

Flora 

The  1951  establishment  record  termed  the  area's 
dominant  cover  type  to  be  "northern  mountain  grass- 
land." The  park  is  a  disjunct  of  the  Palouse  Prairie 
Climax,  or  the  Agropyron-Festuca  association,  which 
extends  through  Montana,  deep  into  British  Colum- 
bia, eastern  Washington,  northern  Utah,  and  north- 
western Colorado. 

Bluebunch  wheatgrass  {Agropyron  spicatum)  is  com- 
mon on  shallow  rocky  soils  at  slightly  lower  eleva- 


10 


I 


Figure  2.  —  Bull  Elk  Park  RNA  (courtesy  of  the  Tongue  Ranger  District). 


tions.  Two  other  characteristic  dominants  are  Idaho 
fescue  (Festuca  idahoensis),  which  dominates  the  dry 
ridgetop,  and  spike  fescue  (Leucopoa  kingii).  The  lat- 
ter, which  occurs  in  dense,  scattered  patches,  is  a  char- 
acteristic dominant  of  the  portion  of  the  association 
that  occurs  in  northern  Wyoming.  Other  common 
associated  grasses  are  smooth  brome  and  mountain 
brome  (Bromus  inermis  and  B.  carinatus),  Nelson 
needlegrass  (Stipa  nelsonii),  timber  oatgrass  (Dan- 
thonia  intermedia),  and  big  bluegrass  (Poa  ampla).  Blue 
wildrye  (Elymus  glaucus)  occurs  around  the  edges  of 
the  park,  and  slender  wheatgrass  (Agropyron  trachy- 
caulum)  and  bearded  wheatgrass  (A.  trachycauhim  ssp. 
glacum)  are  also  present. 

Some  of  the  more  common  forbs  are  yampa  or  false 
yarrow  (Perideridia  gairdneri),  lupine  (Lupinus  sp.), 
mountain  dandelion  (Agoseris  sp.),  yarrow  (Achillea 
millefolium  ssp.  lanulosa),  geranium  (Geranium  sp.), 
cinquefoil  (Potentilla  sp.),  northern  bedstraw  (Galium 
boreale),  harebell  (Campanula  sp.)  and  asters  and  flea- 
banes.  Woody  plants  include  snowberry  (Symphori- 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 

Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  monthly  temperature  and  pre- 
cipitation (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest  to 
Bull  Elk  Park  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Burgess  Junction,  CO, 
weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2450  meters.  The  el- 
evation of  the  RNA  ranges  from  2135-2285  meters,  so  actual  cli- 
mate at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  quite  different  than  that  shown.  Pre- 
cipitation and  temperature  were  averaged  over  32  years. 


11 


carpos  sp.),  which  is  rarely  more  than  a  few  inches 
high — presumably  because  of  browsing  by  elk — as 
well  as  some  shrubby  cinquefoil  and  prostrate  juni- 
per. Sagebrush  (Artemisia  sp.),  a  common  associate 
throughout  this  type,  is  not  abundant  here. 

The  Agropyron-Festuca  association  may  be  subcli- 
max  to  the  conifer  timber  type  in  this  location.  This 
Wyoming  portion  of  the  type  represents  its  most  east- 
erly extension  and  is  unique  in  that  spike-fescue  is 
present.  Relict  areas  of  appreciable  size  that  are  com- 
pletely unmodified  by  domestic  livestock  grazing  are 
very  rare.  The  nearest  known  like  areas  are  in 
Yellowstone  National  Park.  Aside  from  Bull  Elk  Park 
proper,  the  entire  area  of  the  RNA  is  lodgepole  pine 
(Pinus  contorta)  forest. 

A  part  of  this  forest  was  destroyed  by  the  1947  Bull 
Elk  Park  fire,  which  burned  south  of  the  park  but 
was  stopped  at  its  southern  boundary  when  it  en- 
countered the  moisture  of  the  tall  grass  and  deep, 
damp  organic  layer. 

Fauna 

The  principal  big  game  species  are  elk  and  mule 
deer  (Odocoileus  hemionus).  Wapiti  graze  the  park  in 
the  spring  and  summer.  Black  bear  (Ursus  amer- 
icanus),  mountain  lion  (Felis  concolor),  and  coyote 
(Canis  latrans)  inhabit  the  general  area.  No  year-round 
streams  or  lakes  are  present  in  this  area;  wildlife  can 
obtain  water  at  a  small  intermittent  spring  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  park  or  at  a  permanent  spring  located  in  a 
small  forest  opening  near  the  park's  eastern  edge. 

Status  and  Administration 

Bull  Elk  Park  is  managed  under  special  manage- 
ment prescription  10A  under  the  Bighorn  National 
Forest  Plan.  The  Tongue  River  Ranger  District 


(Sheridan,  WY  82801,  307-672-0751)  has  responsibil- 
ity for  administration  and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 

Research 

We  found  only  one  published  study  on  the  RNA 
(Probasco  1968).  Lorin  Word,  retired  wildlife  biolo- 
gist, USDA  Forest  Service,  conducted  research  on  the 
habitat  needs  of  elk  near,  but  not  on,  the  RNA  in  1968. 

Publications 

Demorest,  M.H.  1941.  Critical  structure  features  of 
the  Bighorn  Mountains,  Wyoming.  Geological  So- 
ciety of  America  Bulletin.  52: 161-176. 

Johnson,  J.L.;  Pfister,  R.D.  1982.  A  survey  of  poten- 
tial ecological  natural  landmarks  of  the  middle 
Rocky  Mountains.  Ogden,  UT:  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Intermountain  Forest  and  Range  Ex- 
periment Station. 

Hurd,  R.M.;  Kissinger,  N.A.,  Jr.  1952.  Range  investi- 
gations, Bighorn  National  Forest,  Wyoming.  Pa- 
per No.  10.  Fort  Collins,  CO:  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station.  24  p. 

Probasco,  G.E.  1968.  Diet  preferences  and  utilization 
patterns  of  elk  in  the  northern  Bighorn  Mountains, 
Wyoming.  Laramie,  WY:  University  of  Wyoming. 
M.S.  thesis. 


12 


CAMPO  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Campo  RNA  is  located  approximately  3  miles 
south  of  the  town  of  Campo  along  U.S.  Highway  287- 
385  in  far  southeastern  Baca  County  Colorado,  4.5 
miles  north  of  the  Oklahoma  border  and  about  30 
miles  west  of  the  Kansas  border.  The  RNA  is  part  of 
the  Carrizo  and  Timpas  Units  of  the  Comanche  Na- 
tional Grassland,  which  is  under  the  administration 
of  the  Pike  and  San  Isabel  National  Forests.  The 
RNA's  specific  location  is  within  the  SW  1  /4  of  Sec- 
tion 23,  Township  34  South,  Range  46  West,  6th  Prin- 
cipal Meridian.  It  is  located  at  102  34'52"  North  lati- 
tude and  37  3'52"  West  longitude.  Access  to  the  RNA 
is  available  from  either  the  U.S.  highway  or  the  main- 
tained county  roads  that  enclose  it  on  its  south  and 
west  sides  (fig.  1). 

Overview 

This  14-hectare  triangle  of  land  lying  between  a 
sweeping  curve  of  a  U.S.  highway  and  the  Atchison, 


£j  Campo 


Figure  1.  —  Location  of  Campo 


Figure  2.  —  Permanent  vegetation  transect  at  Campo  RNA. 


Topeka,  and  Santa  Fe  rail  line  is  the  result  of  a  10- 
year  search  for  a  pristine  example  of  the  shortgrass 
plains  grama-buffalo  grass  community  (including  the 
grasses  blue  gramma  (Bouteloua  gracilis),  side-oats 
gramms  (Bouteloua  curtipendula),  and  buffalo  grass 
(Buchloe  dactyloides)) .  The  RNA  has  never  been  part 
of  a  grazing  allotment,  but  the  site  was  once  used  as 
a  holding  pen  for  livestock.  It  has  not  been  plowed 
or  subjected  to  other  major  disturbances  (fig.  2). 

Climate 

The  climate  at  the  RNA  is  semi-arid,  with  precipi- 
tation commonly  coming  from  high-intensity  storms, 


13 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  monthly  temperature  and  pre- 
cipitation (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest  to 
Campo  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Campo  7S,  CO,  weather 
station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  1310  meters.  The  elevation  of 
the  RNA  ranges  from  1310-1315  meters,  so  actual  climate  at  the 
RNA  will  likely  be  nearly  the  same  as  that  shown.  Precipitation 
was  averaged  over  38  years,  and  temperature  was  averaged  over 
18  years. 


mostly  during  the  growing  season  (fig.  3).  The  nearby 
weather  station  at  the  town  of  Campo  reports  an  av- 
erage annual  precipitation  of  404  millimeters  and  an 
average  annual  temperature  of  13°C.  Average  annual 
monthly  maximum  temperature  is  21  °C;  average 
annual  monthly  minimum  temperature  is  4°C.  De- 
pending on  weather,  grass  growth  will  start  about 
April  23  for  cool-season  species  and  May  7  for  warm- 
season  species.  Hot  windy  periods  result  in  a  high 
evapotranspiration  rate  in  the  summer,  which  re- 
duces the  effectiveness  of  the  moisture  contribution 
to  plant  growth.  Winters  are  commonly  cold  and 
windy  with  a  moderate  snowfall. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

This  RNA  sits  on  open,  windswept  plains;  its  el- 
evation varies  from  1310  meters  to  1315  meters.  The 
site  has  no  evident  drainage,  but  it  does  slope  slightly 
to  the  northwest  on  a  loose-textured  sandy  loam  soil. 
This  soil  has  been  derived  from  Eolian  deposits,  in- 
cluding dune  sands,  silt,  and  Peoria  loess,  which  were 
laid  down  during  the  Pleistocene  and  Holocene  pe- 
riods. Dalhart,  Mater,  and  Vona  sandy  loams  are  most 
common  on  the  RNA  site.  A  minute  amount  of  Pot- 
ter gravelly  loam  occurs  at  the  highest  elevation  and, 


likewise,  a  small  amount  of  Vona  loamy  soil  on  the 
lowest  elevation  at  the  north  end  of  the  site. 


Flora 

Plant  cover  in  a  relatively  undisturbed  state  is  the 
most  striking  characteristic  feature  of  the  RNA.  Blue 
grama  dominates  the  site,  accounting  for  more  than 
half  of  the  vegetation  composition  in  a  transect  read- 
ing in  1983;  blue  gramma  is  the  climax  dominant  and 
continues  to  increase  as  the  site  proceeds  toward  cli- 
max. Buffalo-grass  is  next  in  the  composition,  fol- 
lowed by  sideoats  gramma.  Grasses  comprised  more 
than  90%  of  the  cover  on  the  transect  lines.  The  forb 
and  shrub  components  are  very  low,  as  expected  on 
a  shortgrass  plains  site  in  late  serai  succession.  The 
establishment  record,  on  file  at  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station,  contains  a  par- 
tial list  of  common  plants  found  on  the  RNA. 

Fauna 

Only  two  species  have  been  officially  reported: 
blacktailed  jackrabbit  (Lepus  californiais)  and  west- 
ern meadowlark  (Sturnella  neglecta).  Other  animals 
that  would  commonly  be  expected  include  prong- 
horn  (Antilocapra  americana),  coyote  (Canis  latrans), 
eastern  cottontail  (Sylvilagus  floridanus),  desert  cot- 
tontail (S.  audubonii),  prairie  rattlesnake  (Crotalns 
viridis  viridis),  and  plains  pocket  gopher  (Geomys 
bur  sarins).  Other  common  birds  expected  are  scaled 
quail  (Callipepla  squamata),  mourning  dove  (Zenaida 
macrourd),  horned  lark  (Eremophila  alpestris),  and  lark 
bunting  (Calamospiza  melanocorys). 

In  addition,  an  occasional  lesser  prairie  chicken 
(Tympanuchus  pallidicinctus),  a  Colorado  State  threat- 
ened species,  may  use  the  site.  However,  vehicle  traf- 
fic continually  passes  the  site  on  the  highway,  so  dis- 
turbance is  very  high  for  this  bird. 

Status  and  Administration 

Campo  Research  Natural  Area  was  designated  in 
July  1987.  The  site  is  managed  under  special  man- 
agement prescription  10 A  of  the  Pike  and  San  Isabel 
National  Forest  Plan.  The  Carrizo  and  Timpas  Units 
of  the  Comanche  National  Grassland  (Springfield, 
CO  81073,  719-523-6591)  have  responsibility  for  ad- 
ministration and  protection  of  the  RNA. 


14 


For  Information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 
Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 


Research  and  Publications 

Campo  RNA  may  be  used  as  a  baseline  site  against 
which  to  compare  manipulative  activities  on  Short- 
grass  Plains  sites.  No  studies  on  Campo  have  been 
published. 


15 


ESCALANTE  CREEK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Escalante  Creek  RNA  is  located  approximately  25 
miles  southwest  of  Delta,  Colorado,  in  Montrose  and 
Mesa  Counties.  It  is  included  within  the  boundaries 
of  the  Ouray  Ranger  District  of  the  Uncompahgre 
National  Forest,  which  is  administered  as  a  compo- 
nent of  the  Grand  Mesa,  Uncompahgre,  and 
Gunnison  National  Forests.  The  RNA  is  located  in 
portions  of  sections  14  and  23,  Township  49  North, 
Range  14  West,  New  Mexico  Prime  Meridian.  Lati- 
tude is  38  30'  North,  and  longitude  is  108  24'  West. 

Access  to  the  area  is  from  Delta  via  the  Delta-Nucla 
Road,  which  is  designated  Forest  Road  503  after  it 
enters  the  national  forest,  and  Forest  Road  504,  Cot- 
tonwood Road,  which  originates  about  1/8  mile  east 
of  25  Mesa  Guard  Station  Road  (fig.  1).  The  upper 
end  of  the  RNA  is  located  about  0.2  miles  down- 
stream from  Forest  Road  504.  Access  is  also  avail- 
able from  Forest  Road  501,  Cabin  Bench  Road,  where 
it  crosses  the  creek  about  1.5  miles  to  the  northeast. 
No  roads  or  trails  enter  the  area. 


Figure  1 .  —  Map  of  Escalante  Creek  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Overview 

The  18  hectares  of  Escalante  RNA  encompass  the 
riparian  zone  of  approximately  1.5  miles  of  the  Dry 
Fork  of  Escalante  Creek.  The  RNA  is  primarily  char- 
acterized as  an  undisturbed  stand  of  blue  spruce 
(Picea  pungens),  with  various  age  and  size  classes 
present  (fig.  2). 

Climate 

There  are  no  long-term  weather  records  for  the 
Uncompahgre  Plateau.  The  nearest  weather  station 
is  at  Delta,  Colorado,  at  elevation  1510  meters,  and 
weather  there  has  little  resemblance  to  that  occur- 
ring at  the  RNA.  The  climate  of  this  portion  of  the 
plateau  is  characterized  by  long,  cold  winters  and 
cool,  dry  summers.  Forest  Service  hydrologic  person- 
nel have  made  some  estimates  of  mean  annual  pre- 
cipitation based  on  statistical  analysis  of  1970-1980 
records  of  weather  service  stations  surrounding  the 
plateau,  in  conjunction  with  short-term  storage  gauge 
records  from  1972-1980  on  the  plateau.  This  analy- 
sis, adjusted  for  elevation,  shows  that  the  RNA  re- 
ceives an  estimated  584  millimeters  of  precipitation 
annually,  50-60%  of  which  falls  as  snow. 

Physiology,  Geology,  and  Soils 

Escalante  Canyon  is  one  of  several  deeply  dissected 
canyons  that  break  off  the  Uncompahgre  Plateau  and 
feed  the  rivers  to  the  northeast,  creating  a  series  of 
nearly  isolated  mesas.  Escalante  Creek  RNA  is  a  ri- 
parian area  wedged  within  the  steep  canyon  walls 
of  Escalante  Creek,  which  flows  northeasterly  into 
the  Gunnison  River.  Elevations  within  the  RNA  range 
from  2440-2500  meters  above  sea  level.  The  soil  is  a 
sandy  loam  derived  from  a  mixture  of  Dakota  Sand- 
stone alluvium,  the  Brushy  Shale  member  of  the 
Morrison  Formation  and  the  Entrada  Sandstone. 

Flora 

The  plant  association  in  the  blue  spruce  forest  on 
the  RNA  is  different  from  published  plant  associa- 
tions for  blue  spruce  and,  therefore,  it  is  likely  a  new 


16 


Figure  2.  —  Escalante  RNA. 


plant  association.  About  50%  of  the  trees  found  on 
the  RNA  are  blue  spruce,  and  the  stand  is  uneven- 
aged  with  mature  trees  of  about  120  years  old.  The 
blue  spruce  is  restricted  to  the  creek  bottom  and  rap- 
idly disappears  above  the  riparian  zone.  Other  tree 
species  occurring  with  the  blue  spruce  are  Engel- 
mann  spruce  (Picea  engelmannii),  Douglas-fir  (Pseudo- 
tsuga  menziesii),  ponderosa  pine  (Pinus  ponderosa),  and 
aspen  (Populus  tremuloides). 

Common  shrubs  and  herbaceous  plants  include 
shrubby  cinquefoil  (Potentilla  fruticosa),  mountain 
snowberry  (Symphoricarpos  oreophilus),  thinleaf  alder 
{Alnus  tenuifolia),  willow  (Salix  spp.),  serviceberry 
(Amelanchier  alnifolia),  common  juniper  (Juniperus 
communis),  yarrow  (Achillea  millefolium  ssp.  lanulosa), 
paintbrush  (Castilleja  spp.),  aster  (Aster  spp.),  oxeye 
daisy  (Chrysanthemum  spp.),  meadow  rue  (Thalictrum 
spp.),  marsh  marigold  (Caltha  leptosepala) ,  sedge 


(Carex  spp.),  and  tufted  hairgrass  (Deschampsia 
caespitosa).  A  more  complete  list  of  flora  found  on  the 
RNA  is  included  in  the  establishment  record,  on  file 
at  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment 
Station  in  Fort  Collins,  Colorado. 

Fauna 

The  area  is  used  as  summer  range  by  elk  (Cervus 
elaphus)  and  mule  deer  (Odocoileus  hemionus)  and  as 
year-round  habitat  for  small  animals  and  migratory 
birds.  Red  squirrels  (Tamiasciurus  hudsonicus)  are  com- 
mon, and  there  are  old  signs  of  use  by  beaver  (Castor 
canadensis).  Other  nongame  and  small-game  animals 
frequent  the  area.  A  partial  list  of  birds  includes 
mountain  chickadee  (Parus  gambeli),  turkey  vulture 
(Cathartes  aura),  dark-eyed  junco  (Junco  hyemalis), 
Clark's  nutcracker  (Nucifraga  columbiana),  and  red- 


17 


breasted  nuthatch  (Sitta  canadensis).  No  known  en- 
dangered or  threatened  plant  or  animal  species  oc- 
cur on  the  site. 


Status  and  Administration 

Escalante  Creek  RNA  was  designated  in  February 
1985,  the  150th  Research  Natural  Area  to  be  estab- 
lished within  the  Forest  Service  network.  It  is  admin- 
istered under  special  management  prescription  10 A 
of  the  Grand  Mesa,  Uncompahgre  and  Gunnison 
National  Forest  Plan.  The  Ouray  Ranger  District 
(Montrose,  CO  81402, 303-249-3711)  has  responsibil- 
ity for  administration  and  protection  of  the  RNA. 


For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospecte  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research  and  Publications 

Escalante  Canyon  RNA  is  an  appropriate  site  for 
research  on  the  succession  of  blue  spruce  forests  and 
represents  the  montane  riparian  zone.  We  found  no 
published  studies  on  Escalante  Canyon. 


18 


GOTHIC  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Gothic  RNA  is  located  8  miles  north-northwest  of 
Crested  Butte,  Gunnison  County,  Colorado.  The  area 
is  contained  in  portions  of  sections  19,  20,  21,  28,  29, 
and  30  of  Township  12  South,  Range  86  West,  6th 
Principal  Meridian.  It  is  managed  as  part  of  the  Tay- 
lor River  Ranger  District,  Grand  Mesa,  Uncompah- 
gre,  and  Gunnison  National  Forests. 

To  reach  the  RNA  from  the  town  of  Crested  Butte, 
take  the  road  to  Mount  Crested  Butte  and  Gothic  (For- 
est Road  317);  the  RNA  is  approximately  2  miles  to 
the  northwest  of  the  town  of  Gothic  and  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Biological  Laboratory.  At  its  closest  point, 
the  RNA  lies  only  about  0.75  miles  from  Forest  Road 
317  along  Trail  #403  (fig.  1). 

Overview 

The  425-hectare  Gothic  RNA  is  an  outstanding 
example  of  the  Engelmann  spruce-subalpine  fir  (Picea 


*  Schofield 
^^Pass 


Figure  1 .  —  Map  of  Gothic  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Figure  2.  —  Gothic  RNA  (photograph  by  Barry  C.  Johnston). 

engelmannii- Abies  lasiocarpa)  community  that  is  typi- 
cal of  the  subalpine  forests  of  the  western  slope  of 
Colorado.  Lying  at  elevations  from  approximately 
3020-3905  meters  above  sea  level  on  the  north/ north- 
east-facing slopes  of  Mount  Baldy,  the  area  contains 
a  variety  of  habitats  and  animal  species  typical  of 
this  community,  as  well  as  diverse  geological  features 
that  include  glacial  cirques,  moraines,  talus  slopes, 
and  high  alpine  lakes  (fig.  2). 

Climate 

No  climatic  data  is  available  directly  from  the 
Gothic  RNA.  However,  data  from  the  town  of  Crested 


19 


Butte  (elevation  2700  meters)  show  an  average  an- 
nual precipitation  of  591  millimeters  and  an  average 
annual  temperature  of  2°C  (fig.  3).  The  average  an- 
nual monthly  maximum  temperature  is  11°C.  Aver- 
age annual  monthly  minimum  temperature  is  -8°C. 
Killing  frosts  can  occur  at  any  time  of  the  year. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  area  consists  of  the  drainage  of  Quigley  Creek, 
with  portions  of  other  small  tributaries  draining  into 
the  East  River.  Slopes  are  east-facing,  and  elevations 
range  from  3020  meters  above  sea  level  at  the  East 
River  on  the  RNA's  eastern  edge  to  nearly  3905 
meters  at  the  summit  of  Mount  Baldy.  Gothic  RNA 
is  underlain  by  Pierre  shale,  Tertiary  porphyry,  and 
glacial  till  and  outwash.  Many  small  lenses  of  lime- 
stone and  calcacerous  shales  are  present;  most  of 
these  are  less  than  a  foot  thick,  but  a  few  are  0.5-1 
meter  thick.  Although  most  of  the  area's  dikes  and 
sills  are  obscured  by  thick  forest  vegetation,  at  least 
three  closely  spaced  sills  are  well  exposed;  these  sills 
crop  out  along  the  south  side  of  Quigley  Creek,  form- 
ing a  wall-like  cliff.  Three-fourths  of  the  way  up 
Quigley  Creek,  the  sills  cross  the  creek,  creating  a 
series  of  prominent  cascades.  Upstream  from  the  cas- 
cades, the  valley  becomes  a  hanging  cirque  with  steep 
south  and  west  walls  cut  in  Pierre  shale.  The  soils  of 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Gothic  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Crested  Butte,  CO, 
weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2700  meters.  The  el- 
evation of  the  RNA  ranges  from  3020-3905  meters,  so  actual  cli- 
mate at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  quite  different  from  that  shown.  Pre- 
cipitation was  averaged  over  83  years,  and  temperature  was 
averaged  over  82  years. 


the  RNA  are  derived  chiefly  from  the  Pierre  shale 
and  are  black  in  color.  In  some  of  the  upper  regions, 
the  shale  is  only  partially  disintegrated,  and  some 
alpine  plants  are  growing  on  this  material. 

Flora 

The  majority  of  the  area  within  Gothic  RNA  is  clas- 
sified as  forests  dominated  by  Engelmann  spruce  and 
subalpine  fir.  Dominant  cover  types  are:  wet  meadow 
(96  ha),  mature  spruce-fir  (150  ha),  young  spruce-fir 
(42  ha),  treeline  spruce-fir  (23  ha),  and  barren  or  rock 
(114  ha). 

Common  plants  in  the  spruce-fir  forests  include 
myrtle  blueberry  (Vaccinium  myrtillus),  bush  honey- 
suckle (Lonicera  involucrata),  currant  (Ribes  spp.),  red- 
berried  elder  (Sambuciis  racemosa),  heartleaf  arnica 
{Arnica  cordifolia),  clasped-leaf  twisted-stalk  (Strep- 
topns  amplexifolius),  curled  lousewort  (Pedicularis 
racemosa),  and  avalanche  lily  (Erythronium  grandi- 
florum).  Common  plants  in  the  meadow  include 
fringed  brome  (Bromus  ciliatus),  white-flowered 
peavine  (Lathyrus  lencanthus),  slender  cinquefoil 
{Potentilla  gracilis),  southern  ligusticum  (Ligusticum 
porteri),  red-berried  elder  (Sambucus  racemosa),  and 
currant. 

Fauna 

The  fauna  consists  of  mule  deer  (Odocoileus  hemi- 
onus),  elk  (Cervus  elaphus),  black  bear  (Ursus  ameri- 
canus)  and  coyote  (Canis  latrans)  that  may  inhabit  the 
area  for  short  periods  during  the  summer  months. 
In  addition,  numerous  fur-bearers,  including  marten 
(Martes  americanus),  muskrat  (Ondatra  zibethicus), 
weasels  (Mustella  spp.),  and  miscellaneous  rodents, 
can  be  found  year-round.  Two  small  lakes  support 
brook  trout  (Salvelinus  fontinalis). 

Status  and  Administration 

Gothic  was  designated  a  Research  Natural  Area  in 
July  1931  and  had  its  boundaries  revised  in  1959.  The 
site  was  registered  as  a  scientific  natural  area  by  the 
Colorado  Natural  Areas  Program  in  September  1978. 
The  RNA  is  managed  under  special  management 
prescription  10A  of  the  Grand  Mesa,  Uncompahgre, 
and  Gunnison  National  Forest  Plan.  The  Taylor  River 
Ranger  District  (Gunnison,  CO  81230,  303-641-0471) 
has  responsibility  for  administration  and  protection 
of  the  RNA. 


20 


f 


For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research 

The  area's  natural  qualities,  and  its  proximity  to 
the  Rocky  Mountain  Biological  Laboratory  in  Gothic, 


make  it  well  adapted  for  biological  research  and 
teaching  purposes.  Much  field  research  is  conducted 
at  the  lab,  and  the  lab  has  cooperative  agreements 
for  research  on  areas  adjacent  to  the  RNA.  However, 
the  lab  has  not  conducted  research  on  the  RNA  it- 
self. 

Publications 

McCullough,  H.A.  1952.  The  Gothic  Natural  Area. 
The  Living  Wilderness.  41:  13-20. 

McCullough,  H.A.  1956.  Survey  of  the  Gothic  Natu- 
ral Area.  The  Scientific  Monthly.  82:  25-32. 


21 


HURRICANE  CANYON  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

The  RNA  is  located  3  miles  northwest  of  Manitou 
Springs,  Colorado,  in  El  Paso  County,  Pikes  Peak 
Ranger  District,  Pike  and  San  Isabel  National  Forests. 
The  area  includes  portions  of  sections  34  and  35,  Town- 
ship 13  South,  Range  68  West,  6th  Principal  Meridian. 

The  RNA  lies  3-4  miles  above  the  Manitou  Incline 
(Cog  Railway).  The  easiest  access  is  via  Trail  #703,  the 
Barr  Trail-French  Creek  Trail.  The  trailhead  is  at  the  Cog 
Railway  Station  on  U.S.  24  in  Manitou  Springs  (fig.  1). 

Overview 

Because  of  its  rugged  terrain  and  inaccessibility, 
the  211-hectare  Hurricane  Canyon  RNA  (fig.  2)  is  a 
remnant  example  of  the  original  east-slope  montane 
forests — most  of  which  have  long  since  been  logged 
or  grazed.  The  dominant  overstory  tree  is  Douglas- 
fir  (Pseudotsuga  menziesii),  but  ponderosa  pine  (Pinus 
ponderosa)  is  also  abundant.  Oakbrush  transition  com- 
munities occur  in  the  northern  portion  of  the  RNA 
and  Engelmann  spruce  (Picea  engelmannii)  and  Colo- 
rado blue  spruce  (Picea  pungens)  occur  along  the 
stream  banks. 

Climate 

Winters  at  the  RNA  are  dry,  and  the  minimal  snow 
accumulations  are  restricted  to  northern  slopes.  Cli- 
mate data  from  Ruxton  Park,  the  weather  station 


Hurricane 

r 

Canyon 
/  RNA 

r-s  Colorado 

Mt.  Manitou  * 

/"~~"^      Manitou  )/ 
Springs 

\]  )  Springs 
-''1  1 

Figure  1.  —  Location  of  Hurricane  Canyon  RNA. 


Figure  2.  —  Hurricane  Canyon  RNA  (photograph  by  Barry  C. 
Johnston). 

nearest  the  RNA,  shows  that  average  annual  precipi- 
tation is  596  millimeters  and  average  annual  tempera- 
ture is  3°C  (fig.  3).  The  average  annual  monthly  maxi- 
mum temperature  is  10  °C;  the  average  annual 
monthly  minimum  temperature  is  -5°C.  Typically, 
40-50%  of  the  site's  annual  precipitation  falls  in  June, 
July,  and  August. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  terrain  consists  of  two  primary  and  several 
secondary  canyons.  Their  steep  sides  were  cut  by  the 
north  and  south  forks  of  French  Creek,  a  tributary  of 


22 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Hurricane  Canyon  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Ruxton  Park, 
CO,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2760  meters.  The 
elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  2255-2805  meters,  so  actual 
climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  quite  different  than  that  shown. 
Precipitation  and  temperature  were  averaged  over  33  years. 

Fountain  Creek.  Rock  outcrops  are  abundant  on  the 
ridges  and,  in  places,  the  canyons  are  boulder-filled. 
Elevations  range  from  2255-2805  meters  above  sea 
level.  The  area's  geology  is  typical  of  much  of  the 
east  slope  of  the  Front  Range,  and  the  parent  rock  is 
weathered  Pikes  Peak  granite.  Soils  are  generally 
gravelly,  with  narrow  bands  of  colluvial  soil  found 
along  the  stream  bottoms. 

Flora  and  Fauna 

Information  about  forbs,  grasses,  and  shrubs  has 
not  been  collected  on  the  RNA.  The  area  receives  lim- 


ited use  as  a  wintering  ground  by  elk  (Cervus  elaphus). 
Detailed  surveys  of  fauna  have  not  been  done  for  the 
RNA. 


Status  and  Administration 

Hurricane  Canyon  was  designated  a  natural  area 
in  1931.  An  establishment  record  was  completed  in 
1966.  It  is  managed  under  special  management  pre- 
scription 10A  of  the  Pike  and  San  Isabel  National 
Forest  Plan.  Hurricane  Canyon  was  designated  a  Sci- 
entific Natural  Area  under  the  Colorado  Natural 
Areas  Program  in  October  1980. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 


Research  and  Publications 

The  RNA  represents  undisturbed  examples  of  eco- 
systems that  have  been  severely  disturbed  elsewhere 
in  the  Front  Range  of  Colorado.  Also,  the  RNA  con- 
tains distinct  watersheds  with  both  riparian  and 
upslope  vegetation.  The  Engelmann  spruce  and  blue 
spruce  stands  along  the  streamsides  could  be  stud- 
ied for  hybridization  between  the  two  species.  We 
found  no  published  studies  from  the  RNA. 


23 


LIMBER  PINE  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Limber  Pine  Research  Natural  Area  is  located  in 
Slope  County,  southwestern  North  Dakota,  95  miles 
southwest  of  Dickinson,  North  Dakota,  in  the  Medora 
Ranger  District  of  the  Little  Missouri  National  Grass- 
lands, Custer  National  Forest.  The  approximate  cen- 
ter of  the  RNA  is  at  latitude  46  27'55"  North  and  lon- 
gitude 103  54'58"  West.  The  RNA  is  contained  in  sec- 
tions 30  and  31,  Township  135  North,  Range  105  West, 
5th  Principal  Meridian. 

Under  dry  or  frozen  conditions,  the  RNA  can  be 
reached  by  automobile  from  either  the  north  or  the 
south.  From  Marmath,  North  Dakota,  proceed  1.5 
miles  west  on  State  Highway  12  to  Forest  Road  783 
(the  West  River  Road);  go  north  about  12  miles.  Turn 
east  on  an  undeveloped  trail  (Forest  Road  782)  and 
proceed  about  4  miles  east  to  the  southwestern  cor- 
ner of  the  the  limber  pine  stand  (which  is  on  private 
land)  in  Section  36.  The  route  continues  east,  skirt- 
ing around  the  RNA,  and  connects  with  the  access 
route  from  the  north. 

Alternately,  from  Golva,  North  Dakota,  which  is 
14  miles  from  the  Beach  Exit  on  Interstate  94,  go  7 
miles  south,  1  mile  west,  and  6  miles  south  on  State 
Highway  16  to  a  four-way  junction.  Turn  left  (east) 
on  the  county  road  and  go  2  miles  trending  east  and 
south,  past  the  Horse  Creek  Grazing  Association 
Headquarters.  Continue  about  6  miles  to  the  Brown 
Ranch.  In  the  extreme  northwest  1/4  of  Section  28, 
less  than  1/4  mile  from  the  ranch  headquarters  and 
immediately  northwest  of  a  clay  knob,  is  an  un- 
marked turn-off  to  an  undeveloped  private  trail  that 
fords  Cannonball  Creek  and  enters  the  RNA's  ex- 
treme northeastern  corner.  Figure  1  shows  the  access 
routes  to  the  RNA. 

Overview 

This  276-hectare  RNA  protects  a  disjunct  stand  of 
limber  pine  (Pinns  flexilis)  at  the  northeasternmost 
extent  of  its  range.  The  stand  is  in  a  relatively  undis- 
turbed setting  among  grassland  types  common  to  the 
Little  Missouri  River  Badlands  (fig.  2).  The  RNA  har- 
bors at  least  six  state  rare  animal  and  plant  species. 
Twenty-three  prehistoric  sites  have  been  documented 


Figure  1 .  —  Location  of  Limber  Pine  RNA. 


adjacent  to  the  RNA.  This  density  and  distribution 
of  prehistoric  sites  in  the  general  limber  pine  area 
are  considered  atypical  compared  to  similar  stream 
valleys  and  ridge  complexes  elsewhere  in  the  Little 
Missouri  National  Grasslands. 

Climate 

The  climate  of  southwestern  North  Dakota  is  char- 
acterized by  extreme  temperature  differences  within 


24 


Figure  2.  —  Limber  Pine  RNA  (photograph  by  Angela  Evenden). 


and  between  seasons,  light  to  moderate  precipitation 
that  tends  to  peak  in  spring,  low  relative  humidity, 
plentiful  sunshine,  nearly  continuous  air  movement, 
and  high  overall  variability  in  precipitation  and  tem- 
perature between  years.  Mild,  dry  west  winds  pre- 
vail during  the  growing  season,  which  is  about  120 
days  near  the  RNA.  Cold  and  dry  air  masses  from 
the  north  prevail  during  the  winter.  Warm  air  masses 
from  the  south  are  the  most  frequent  source  of  rain, 
which  accounts  for  the  majority  of  precipitation. 

Climate  data  for  Bowman  Courthouse,  North  Da- 
kota, the  weather  station  nearest  the  RNA,  shows  an 
average  annual  precipitation  of  385  millimeters  and 
an  average  annual  temperature  of  6°C  (fig.  3).  Aver- 
age annual  monthly  maximum  temperature  is  13°C, 
and  average  annual  monthly  minimum  temperature 
is  -1  °C 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

Limber  Pine  RNA  lies  in  the  southwestern 
unglaciated  corner  of  North  Dakota,  in  the  physi- 


100 


(mm) 

80 

ion 

pitat 

60 

o 

CD 

CL 

>> 

40 

.C 

Monl 

20 

Mean 

0 

Limber  Pine 


a.  •'  i     i     i     i  i  i  i  1_ 


50 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


o 

40 

o 

03 

30 

pei 

E 

CD 
1- 

20 

>* 

.C 

■4— ' 

c 

o 

10 

c 

CO 

CD 

0 

« 

-10 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Limber  Pine  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Bowman  Court- 
house, ND,  weatherstation,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  910  meters. 
The  elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  800-895  meters,  so  actual 
climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  nearly  the  same  as  that  shown. 
Precipitation  was  averaged  over  76  years,  and  temperature  was 
averaged  over  74  years. 


25 


ographic  region  referred  to  as  the  Missouri  Slope. 
Elevations  at  the  RNA  range  from  895  meters  at  the 
ridgetops  to  800  meters  at  the  northeastern  corner  above 
Cannonball  Creek.  The  RNA  is  made  up  of  highly  dis- 
sected Badlands  terrain,  composed  mainly  of  sedimen- 
tary Ludlow  Formation  bedrock.  The  area  is  consid- 
ered to  be  one  of  the  best  exposures  of  this  formation. 

Over  half  of  the  exposed  stratigraphic  column  in 
the  RNA  is  composed  of  "Limber  Pine  Sandstone." 
It  is  discontinuous  across  the  area  and  is  relatively 
more  susceptible  to  erosion.  Above  this,  the  upper- 
most 14  meters  has  a  striped  bedding  of  finegrained 
winnowed  sandstone  separated  by  bands  of  ash,  lig- 
nite, shale,  and  clinker,  which  interfinger  with  mas- 
sive clay  overlying  alternations  of  clay  and  coarse 
elastics.  (Clinker  is  a  clay  layer  commonly  referred 
to  as  "scoria,"  which  forms  the  resistant  caprock 
across  the  highest  elevations.) 

All  of  the  RNA  is  within  the  general  Badlands  land 
type.  Its  main  soil  types  are  Brandenburg-Cabba  com- 
plex, which  dominates  the  highly  dissected  upland 
terrain;  Patent  loam,  which  is  found  in  relatively 
small  areas  lower  on  the  catena  on  6-15%  slopes  and 
is  derived  from  colluvial  material  on  fans  and  foot 
slopes;  and  Badlands-Cabbart  complex  (9-15% 
slopes),  which  constitutes  the  lowland  soils  and  erod- 
ible  upland  slopes.  This  last  is  not  a  soil  series,  but  a 
term  referring  to  eroding  outcrops  of  soft  shale  with 
limited  or  no  soil  development  and  sparse  vegetation. 

Flora 

The  most  recent  published  study  (Beckes  et  al. 
1982)  shows  evidence  that  prehistoric  man  played  a 
primary  role  in  the  origin  of  the  limber  pine  stand  at 
the  RNA.  Their  conclusion  was  based  on  the  fact  that 
the  stand  was  young  and  that  it  apparently  had  a 
single  point  of  origin. 

About  12  hectares  of  the  RNA  are  the  limber  pine 
cover  type;  18  hectares  are  the  Rocky  Mountain  juni- 
per (Juniperus  scopidorum)  cover  type;  and  the  remain- 
ing 245  hectares  are  nonforest  types.  The  dominant 
nonforest  types  are  saltbrush-greasewood  (Atriplex 
sarcobatus):  40  hectares;  sagebrush  steppe  (Agropyron 
spicatum- Artemisia  tridentata):  61  hectares;  and  wheat- 
grass-needlegrass  (Agropyron-Stipa):  142  hectares. 

Five  rare  or  otherwise  interesting  plants  have  been 
observed  or  collected  within  the  RNA: 

Kinnikinnick  (Arctostaphylos  uva-ursi) — a  disjunct 
occurrence  of  a  boreal  species. 


Little  barley  (Hordeum  pusillum) — state  rare  plant; 
grows  on  clay  outwash. 

Dwarf  mentzelia  (Mentzelia  pumila) — represents 
the  only  recent  record  of  this  state  endangered 
plant  in  North  Dakota.  Grows  in  the  open  on  sco- 
ria and  on  underlying  ash  residue. 

Limber  pine — represents  the  only  record  of  this 
state  endangered  plant  in  North  Dakota. 

Wax  currant  (Ribes  cereum) — state  sensitive  rare 
plant.  Grows  on  scoria  ridgetops  and  sandstone 
in  a  range  of  open  to  shaded  conditions. 

Flora  of  the  Limber  Pine  RNA  have  not  been  thor- 
oughly collected,  described,  or  analyzed.  A  list  of 
plants  known  to  occur  on  the  RNA  is  included  in  the 
establishment  record,  which  is  on  file  at  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station  in 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado. 

Fauna 

Vertebrate  species  have  not  been  inventoried  or 
systematically  studied  in  the  RNA,  but  they  have 
been  inventoried  regionally  in  southwestern  North 
Dakota.  Reptiles  known  to  occur  in  the  area  include 
prairie  rattlesnake  (Crotalus  viridis  viridis),  short- 
horned  lizard  (Phrynosoma  douglassii),  and  sagebrush 
lizard  (Scelopoms  graciosus) — a  state  rare  species.  Spe- 
cies of  birds  reported  in  the  area  include  golden  eagle 
(Aquila  chrysaetos),  ferruginous  hawk  (Buteo  regalis), 
turkey  vulture  (Cathartes  aura),  sage  grouse  (Centro- 
cercus  urophasianus),  merlin  (Falco  columbarius), 
Clark's  nutcracker  (Nucifraga  columbiana),  common 
poorwill  (Phalaenoptilus  nuttallii),  and  Brewer's  spar- 
row (Spizella  brewer i). 

Mammals  in  the  area  include  pronghorn  (Antilo- 
capra  americana),  coyote  (Canis  latrans),  porcupine 
(Erethizon  dorsatum),  desert  and  eastern  cottontails 
(Sylvilagus  audubonii  and  S.floridanus),  and  the  state 
rare  Ord's  kangaroo  rat  (Dipodomys  ordii).  Mule  deer 
(Odocoileus  hemionus)  use  the  area  heavily  through- 
out the  year;  pronghorn  use  is  heaviest  in  the  winter. 
Bobcat  (Felis  rufus)  were  trapped  here  in  the  1960s, 
but  have  not  returned.  The  only  state  rare  animals 
whose  breeding  habitat  is  confirmed  as  entering  the 
RNA  are  the  golden  eagle  and  the  poorwill. 

A  more  complete  list  of  vertebrates  found  in  the 
immediate  area  of  the  RNA  is  contained  in  the  es- 
tablishment report,  which  is  on  file  and  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station  in 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado. 


26 


Status  and  Administration 

Limber  Pine  was  established  as  an  RNA  in  July 
1991.  It  is  administered  under  special  management 
prescription  10 A  of  the  Custer  National  Forest  Man- 
agement Plan.  The  Medora  Ranger  District  of  the 
Little  Missouri  National  Grassland  (Dickinson,  ND 
58601,  701-225-5151)  is  responsible  for  administra- 
tion and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 


Research 

The  RNA  continues  to  draw  researchers  interested 
in  its  disjunct  limber  pine  stand.  The  RNA  is  also 
suited  for  research  into  any  of  its  rare  plant  commu- 
nities or  plant  species,  as  well  as  general  research 
involving  the  Little  Missouri  Badlands  area. 

Publications 

Beckes,  M.R.;  Jagler,  B.K.;  Burge,  T.L.;  and  Love,  T.G. 
1982.  Possible  cultural  origin  of  an  isolated  stand  of 
Pinus  flexilis  in  the  Little  Missouri  Badlands.  Journal 
of  the  North  Dakota  Archeological  Association.  1: 9-20. 

Love,  T.L.  1982.  Limber  pine  in  North  Dakota.  North 
Dakota  Outdoors.  42:  8-9. 

Potter,  L.D;  and  Green,  D.L.  1964.  Ecology  of  a  northeast- 
em  outlying  stand  of  Pinus  flexilis.  Ecology.  45: 866-68. 

Williams,  R.P  1988.  Limber  pines.  North  Dakota 
Outdoors-Natural  Areas  Guide.  50:  16. 


27 


MOUNT  GOLIATH  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

The  Mount  Goliath  Research  Natural  Area  lies  8 
miles  southwest  of  Idaho  Springs,  in  Clear  Creek 
County,  in  the  Clear  Creek  Ranger  District  of  the 
Arapaho  and  Roosevelt  National  Forests.  The  RNA 
occupies  portions  of  sections  5,  6,  7,  and  8  of  Town- 
ship 5  South,  Range  73  West,  6th  Principal  Meridian. 
The  north  edge  of  the  site  adjoins  a  parking  lot  off 
Colorado  State  Highway  5  (the  "Mount  Evans  High- 
way"), approximately  3  miles  above  Echo  Lake  and 
the  junction  of  State  Highway  105  with  State  High- 
way 5  (fig.  1).  From  the  parking  lot,  the  M.  Walter 
Pesman  Alpine  Trail,  maintained  in  cooperation  with 
the  Denver  Botanic  Gardens,  cuts  through  the  site 
and  eventually  rejoins  the  highway  above  the  RNA. 


^^^^^ 

Idaho 

^ssgg^    Springs  ^^^^^ 

/I   I  Mount 
\L~ 1  Goliath 
1  RNA 

Mt.C 
Evans\ 

Figure  1.  —  Map  of  Mount  Goliath  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Overview 

The  65-hectare  Mount  Goliath  RNA  was  created 
in  1950  to  preserve  a  significant  population  of  bristle- 
cone  pine  (Pinus  aristata),  located  near  the  northern 
limits  of  its  range.  At  timberline,  the  bristlecone  have 
become  gnarled  and  twisted  by  the  wind  into  pecu- 
liar and  distorted  shapes,  reflecting  the  severity  of 
the  climate  (fig.  2).  The  bristlecone  pine  in  this  stand 
include  one  of  the  oldest  known  Pinus  aristata  in 
Colorado — more  than  1,500  years  old.  The  original 
size  of  the  RNA,  130  hectares,  was  reduced  to  65  hect- 
ares in  1957  to  eliminate  acreage  crossed  by  the  Mount 
Evans  Highway  and  acres  being  used  for  recreation. 

Climate 

Based  on  NOAA  data  taken  at  the  Mount  Evans 
Experiment  Station,  which  is  at  a  roughly  comparable 
elevation  to  Mount  Goliath,  average  annual  precipi- 
tation is  962  millimeters,  and  the  average  annual  tem- 
perature is  -2°C  (fig.  3).  The  average  annual  monthly 
maximum  temperature  is  4°C,  and  the  average 
monthly  minimum  temperature  is  -7°C. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  RNA  is  located  just  below  the  summit  of 
Mount  Goliath  on  the  mountain's  north  and  east 
slopes.  The  RNA  lies  on  the  headwaters  of  Vance 
Creek,  a  tributary  of  the  South  Platte  River  via  Bear 
Creek.  Slopes  are  generally  moderate,  and  elevations 
range  from  3445-3690  meters  above  sea  level.  The 
area  is  composed  of  igneous  granite  and  metamor- 
phic  schist. 

Flora 

Most  of  the  area  is  dominated  by  bristlecone  pine, 
with  scattered  Engelmann  spruce  (Picea  engelmannii). 
The  lower,  eastern  side  of  the  RNA  (about  49  hect- 
ares) consists  of  bristlecone  pine  and  whiproot  clo- 
ver (Trifolium  dasyphyllum)  with  Engelmann  spruce 
interspersed.  The  remaining  higher,  western  part  of 
the  RNA  (about  16  hectares)  is  alpine  kobresia 
(Kobresia  myosuroides)  with  a  few  bristlecone  pine  in- 


28 


Figure  2.  —  Bristlecone  pine  in  Mount  Goliath  RNA. 


terspersed.  One  study  (Hartman  and  Mitchell  1979) 
documented  94  plant  species  in  24  different  families 
in  the  RNA.  Except  for  the  trail  across  the  RNA  and 
trampling  around  the  parking  lot,  the  plant  commu- 
nities within  the  RNA  receive  little  disturbance.  Vis- 
ibility from  the  highway  has  probably  impeded  van- 
dalism of  the  bristlecone  pines,  but  an  interpretive 
sign  at  the  parking  lot  has  to  be  replaced  every  few 
years. 

The  most  common  plants  found  in  the  bristlecone 
pine  forests  on  the  RNA  include  yarrow  (Achillea 
millefolium  ssp.  lanulosa),  field  wormwood  (Artemisia 
campestris),  tufted  hairgrass  (Deschampsia  caespitosa), 
hairy  golden  aster  (Heterotheca  villosa),  beard-tongue 
(Penstemon  sp.),  common  stonecrop  (Sedum 
stenopetalum),  whiproot  clover  (Trifolium  dasyphyl- 
lum),  and  spike  trisetum  (Trisetum  spicatum). 

The  most  common  plants  in  the  alpine  areas  on 
the  RNA  include  alpine  sandwort  (Minuartia 
obtusiloba),  dwarf  sagewort  (Artemisia  scopulorum), 
kobresia  sedge  (Carex  elynoides),  tufted  hairgrass 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Mount  Goliath  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Mount  Evans 
Experiment  Station,  CO,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation 
of  3240  meters.  The  elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  3445-3690 
meters,  so  actual  climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  similar  to  that 
shown.  Precipitation  and  temperature  were  averaged  over  9  years. 


29 


(Deschampsia  caespitosa),  sheep  fescue  (Festuca 
brachyphylla),  golden  avens  (J\comastylis  rossii), 
nailwort  (Paronychia  pulvinata),  sky  pilot  (Polem- 
onium  viscosum),  whiproot  clover  (Trifolium 
dasyphyllum),  and  Parry  clover  (Trifolium  parryi). 

Fauna 

The  RNA  is  occasionally  used  by  bighorn  sheep 
(Ovis  canadensis)  and  elk  (Cervus  elaphus). 

Status  and  Administration 

Mount  Goliath  was  designated  a  Research  Natu- 
ral Area  in  May  1950.  It  was  designated  a  natural  area 
by  the  Colorado  Natural  Areas  Program  in  October 
1980.  The  RNA  is  managed  under  special  manage- 
ment prescription  10A  of  the  Arapaho  and  Roosevelt 
National  Forest  Plan.  The  Clear  Creek  Ranger  Dis- 
trict (Idaho  Springs,  CO  80452,  303-576-2901)  has 
responsibility  for  administration  and  protection  of 
the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research 

The  Denver  Botanic  Gardens  (909  York  Street,  Den- 
ver, CO  80206;  303-331-4000)  maintains  a  plant  col- 
lection of  species  found  on  the  RNA  and  has  been 
interested  in  the  flora  of  the  RNA  for  years.  The  RNA 
represents  the  ecotone  between  subalpine  forest  and 
tundra  and  could  be  monitored  for  changes  caused 


by  changes  in  climate.  Dr.  Anna  Shoettle  (Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station) 
studied  needle  retention  in  bristlecone  pine  as  an 
indicator  of  stress  in  1992. 

Publications 

Ash,  S.  1968.  Mount  Goliath:  past,  present  and  fu- 
ture. The  Green  Thumb.  25:  79-80.  (Publication  of 
Denver  Botanic  Gardens.) 

Brunquist,  E.H.  1962.  The  alpine  garden:  high-coun- 
try outpost  of  the  Denver  Botanic  Gardens.  The 
Green  Thumb.  19:  319-20. 

Brunquist,  E.H.  1963.  Mt.  Goliath  relatives  of  garden 
plants:  common  plants  of  the  M.  Walter  Pesman  Al- 
pine Trail.  Denver,  CO:  Denver  Botanic  Gardens.  7  p. 

Brunquist,  E.H.  1963.  The  alpine-subalpine  trails  of 
Mount  Goliath.  The  Green  Thumb.  20: 166-168. 

Graham,  J.  1986.  A  day  with  Goliath.  Colorado  Out- 
doors. 35:  16-17. 

Hartman,  J.  1978.  Plant  study  on  Mount  Goliath.  The 
Green  Thumb.  35:  55-61. 

Hartman,  J.;  Mitchell,  R.  1979.  Plants  of  Mount 
Goliath  Research  Natural  Area.  Prairie  Naturalist. 
11:  39-48. 

Krebs,  P.  1965.  Dendrochronology  and  the  distribu- 
tion of  bristlecone  pine  (Pinus  arista ta)  in  Colorado. 
Boulder,  CO:  University  of  Colorado.  Ph.D.  dis- 
sertation. 

Roth,  H.  1955.  Something  new  in  old  trees.  Natural 
History.  June. 

Schoettle,  A.W.  1993.  Comparison  of  shoot,  needle, 
and  physiological  characteristics  of  erect  and  dwarf 
Bristlecone  pine  (Pinus  aristida)  trees  at  treeline.  Bul- 
letin of  the  Ecological  Society  of  America.  74:  429. 

Shanklin,  J.F  1960.  Society  of  American  Foresters 
natural  areas.  Journal  of  Forestry.  58:  483-484. 

Wingate,  J.L.  1982.  Alpine  Wildflowers  of  Mt.  Goliath. 
Denver:  Denver  Botanic  Gardens.  Pamphlet. 

Zeiner,  H.M.  1967.  Checklist  of  flowers:  the  Mount 
Goliath  Alpine  Unit.  The  Green  Thumb.  24: 103-106. 


30 


NARRAGUINNEP  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Narraguinnep  RNA  lies  17  miles  northwest  of 
Dolores,  Colorado,  in  the  Dolores  Ranger  District  of 
the  San  Juan  National  Forest,  at  latitude  37  42'  North 
and  longitude  108  40'  West.  The  RNA  is  located  in 
portions  of  sections  19, 20,  29,  30,  and  31,  Township  40 
North,  Range  16  West,  New  Mexico  Principal  Merid- 
ian; and  portions  of  sections  1  and  2,  Township  39  North, 
Range  17  West,  New  Mexico  Principal  Meridian. 

Topographic  barriers  and  lack  of  trails  render  this 
RNA  relatively  inaccessible.  To  reach  the  RNA,  take 
Colorado  State  Highway  666  approximately  9  miles 
southeast  from  Dove  Creek  to  Cahone.  Turn  east  on 
a  dirt  road  and  go  3  miles,  then  turn  south  for  ap- 
proximately 1.3  miles.  Turn  east  on  County  Road  505, 
cross  Bradfield  Bridge  and  turn  onto  Forest  Service 
Road  504.  Narraguinnep  Canyon  parallels  Forest 
Service  Road  504,  which  lies  about  0.5  miles  to  the 
northwest  of  the  canyon.  The  RNA  can  be  reached 
by  traveling  cross-country  from  this  road  (fig.  1). 


Figure  1.  —  Map  of  Narraguinnep  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Overview 

Narraguinnep  RNA  is  a  781-hectare  site  in  Narra- 
guinnep Canyon  that  contains  an  outstanding  ex- 
ample of  undisturbed  native  plant  and  animal  com- 
munities, typical  of  the  canyon  mesa  country  of 
southwestern  Colorado  (fig.  2).  The  area  is  dominated 
by  stands  of  ponderosa  pine  (Pinus  ponderosa)  and 
mixed  piny  on  pine  (Pinus  edulis)  and  Utah  juniper  (Juni- 
perus  osteosperma)  woodlands,  as  well  as  dense  stands 
of  scrub  oak  (Quercus  gambellii).  Moderately  steep  slopes 
with  rimrock  and  steep  rock  cliffs  form  the  canyon. 

Climate 

The  RNA's  climate  is  typical  of  the  canyonlands 
of  southwestern  Colorado.  The  average  annual 
frostfree  period  runs  from  June  10  to  September  15. 
Averages  of  30  years  of  NOAA  data  taken  at  Yellow 
Jacket  2W  (elevation  2090  meters)  show  an  average 
annual  precipitation  of  397  millimeters  and  an  aver- 
age annual  temperature  of  8°C  (fig.  3).  The  average 
annual  monthly  maximum  temperature  is  16°C;  the 
average  annual  monthly  minimum  temperature  is 
1°C.  Since  elevations  at  the  RNA  range  from  2040- 
2440  meters,  actual  climate  at  the  site  will  likely  be 
quite  different  from  the  Yellow  Jacket  data. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  canyon  has  fairly  steep  slopes  and,  in  places, 
rimrock  and  steep  rock  cliffs.  Elevations  range  from 
2040  meters  above  sea  level  at  the  bottom  of  the  can- 
yon at  the  lower  end  of  the  area  to  2440  meters  at  the 
highest  point  on  the  rim  of  the  canyon.  The  exposed 
geological  formations  are  topped  by  the  Dakota  sand- 
stone formation,  which  is  underlain  by  McElmo  and 
LaPlata  sandstone — all  of  sedimentary  origin.  The 
soil  is  the  result  of  the  disintegration  of  these  forma- 
tions. In  general,  the  soil  is  not  very  deep  on  the  can- 
yon sides,  but  deep  and  fertile  on  the  canyon  floor. 

Flora 

Ponderosa  pine  and  pinyon-juniper  are  the  domi- 
nant trees  within  this  RNA.  Aspen  (Populus  tremu- 


31 


Figure  2.  —  Narraguinnep  RNA. 


hides)  is  found  only  in  the  bottom  of  the  canyon;  the 
dominant  shrub  is  Gambel  oak.  A  baseline  ecologi- 
cal study  of  the  RNA  (Somers  et  al.  1980)  identified 
six  plant  associations  at  the  site:  Gambel  oak-moun- 
tain snowberry  (Symphoricarpos  oreophilus):  95  ha; 
Ponderosa  pine-Gambel  oak:  285  ha;  Gambel  oak- 
Utah  serviceberry  (Amelanchier  utahensis):  190  ha; 
Rocky  Mountain  juniper  (Juniperus  scopulorum)- 
Gambel  oak:  19  ha;  Utah  juniper-pinyon  pine:  176 
ha;  Gambel  oak-alderleaf  mountain  mahogany 
(Cercocarpus  montanus):  16  ha. 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Narraguinep  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Yellow  Jacket  2W, 
CO,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2090  meters.  The 
elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  2040-2440  meters,  so  actual 
climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  quite  different  from  that  shown. 
Precipitation  and  temperature  were  averaged  over  30  years. 


The  pinyon-juniper  type  has  an  open  stand  of  pin- 
yon  and  juniper  with  trees  varying  in  size  from  seed- 
lings to  mature.  The  oakbrush  type  consists  of  a  more 


E 
E 

c 
o 

B 
a. 

'o 

CL 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


32 


or  less  dense  stand  of  scrub  oak  mixed  with  rose  (Rosa 
spp.)/  ceanothus  (Ceanothus  fendleri),  Utah  service- 
berry,  chokecherry  (Primus  virginiana  var.  melano- 
carpa),  bitterbrush  (Purshia  tridentata)  and  mountain 
snowberry  (Sympilioricarpos  oreophilus).  The  four  most 
common  species  of  herbaceous  angiosperms  were 
blue-eyed  Mary  (Collinsia  parviflora),  muttongrass 
(Poa  fendleriana),  whiteflowered  peavine  (Lathyrus 
leucanthus),  and  elk  sedge  (Carex  geyeri).  No  cutting 
has  been  reported  of  any  of  these  types,  although  the 
pinyon,  juniper,  and  ponderosa  pine  were  judged  to 
be  merchantable  in  1962.  Somers  et  al.  (1980)  contains 
an  extensive  list  of  plants  found  on  the  RNA. 

Fauna 

Somers  et  al.  (1980)  reported  the  presence  of  cho- 
rus frog  (Pseudacris  triseriata),  short-horned  lizard 
(Phrynosoma  douglassii),  eastern  fence  lizard 
(Sceloporus  undulatus),  and  many-lined  skink 
(Eumeces  multivirgatus).  They  found  33  species  of 
birds  on  the  RNA  and  another  11  near  the  RNA.  They 
also  counted  11  species  of  small  mammals,  as  well  as 
coyote  (Canis  latrans),  black  bear  (Ursus  americanus), 
elk  (Cervus  elaphus),  and  mule  deer  (Odocoileus 
hemionus). 

Status  and  Administration 

Narraguinnep  was  designated  as  an  RNA  in  July 
1932  for  1,134  hectares;  the  area  was  reclassified  and 
the  acreage  reduced  to  781  hectares  in  May  1962.  The 
RNA  was  designated  a  scientific  natural  area  by  the 


Colorado  Natural  Areas  Program  in  October  1980.  It 
is  managed  under  special  management  prescription 
10A  of  the  San  Juan  National  Forest  Plan.  The  Dolores 
Ranger  District  (Dolores,  CO  81323, 303-882-7296)  has 
responsibility  for  administration  and  protection  of 
the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research 

The  RNA  represents  vegetation  typical  of  the 
higher  southwest  canyon  country.  Sommers  et  al. 
(1980)  has  extensive  baseline  information  on  the 
RNA. 

Publications 

Kelly,  G.  W.  1947.  The  Narraguinnep  Natural  Area. 
The  Green  Thumb.  4:  12-14.  (Publication  of  Den- 
ver Botanic  Gardens.) 

Sommers,  P.;  Nichols,  G.E.;  Stransky,  R.W.  1980. 
Baseline  ecological  study  of  Narraguinnep  Re- 
search Natural  Area,  San  Juan  National  Forest.  23 
p.  (On  file  at  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station,  Fort  Collins,  Colorado.) 


33 


SADDLE  MOUNTAIN  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Saddle  Mountain  RNA  is  located  in  Park  County, 
Colorado,  11  miles  southwest  of  the  town  of  Lake 
George  and  16  miles  northwest  of  Cripple  Creek,  in 
the  Pike  and  San  Isabel  National  Forests,  South  Park 
Ranger  District.  The  site  is  located  in  sections  8  and 
17,  Township  14  South,  Range  72  West,  6th  Principal 
Meridian. 

To  reach  the  RNA,  travel  approximately  32  miles 
northwest  on  Colorado  State  Highway  9,  then  turn 
right  (north)  onto  County  Road  102.  After  approxi- 
mately 5  miles,  turn  left  (north)  onto  County  Road 
59  and  drive  about  3.5  miles.  From  there,  the  RNA 
can  be  reached  by  hiking  about  0.5  miles  east  cross- 
country (fig.  1). 

Overview 

The  most  significant  feature  of  Saddle  Mountain 
RNA  is  the  excellent  pristine  montane  grasslands  (fig. 
2).  The  RNA  contains  194  hectares  of  Engelmann 
spruce  (Picea  engelmannii)  and  aspen  (Populus 
tremuloides)  stands  interspersed  with  grasslands 
dominated  by  Parry  oatgrass  (Danthonia  parryi). 


Figure  1 .  —  Map  of  Saddle  Mountain  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Figure  2.  —  Saddle  Mountain  RNA. 

Climate 

NOAA  data  on  mean  monthly  precipitation  at  the 
nearest  weather  station,  Lake  George  (elevation  2595 
meters),  show  an  average  annual  precipitation  of  322 
millimeters  and  an  average  annual  temperature  of 
3°C  (fig.  3).  Average  annual  monthly  maximum  tem- 
perature is  12°C,  and  average  annual  monthly  mini- 
mum temperature  is  -5°C. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

Altitudes  on  this  RNA  range  from  2775-3050 
meters  above  sea  level  and  slopes  from  gentle  to  as 


34 


much  as  60%.  The  area's  soil  is  derived  from  basalt 
and  is  typical  of  much  of  the  southwestern  portion 
of  Pike  National  Forest  and  many  other  areas  in 
southern  Colorado. 

Flora 

A  range  survey  done  in  1946,  before  the  area  was 
designated  as  an  RNA,  reports  45  hectares  of  grass- 
land, 45  hectares  of  aspen  (Popidus  tremuloides),  and 
113  hectares  of  Engelmann  spruce  (Picea  engelmannii). 
Grassland  types  were  recovering  from  varying  degrees 
of  grazing  use  in  1951;  sizeable  areas  were  apparently 
reaching  Parry  oatgrass  mix,  rather  than  a  cover  type 
dominated  by  Arizona  fescue  (Festuca  arizonica)  and 
mountain  muhly  (Muhlenbergia  montana).  Parry 
oatgrass  is  a  highly  palatable  climax  grass  species. 
Engelmann  spruce  and  aspen  timber  types,  as  well 
as  old  stumps  indicating  former  stands  of  large  Dou- 
glas-firs (Psendotsuga  menziesii),  occur  on  all  but  the 
southern  and  southwestern  exposures.  Fire,  logging, 
and  Dendroctonus  infestation — singly  and  in  combi- 
nation— have  been  involved  in  this  change.  Various 
stages  of  invasion  of  the  grasslands  by  aspen  and  bristle- 
cone  pine  (Pinus  aristata)  were  reported. 

In  1985,  a  Forest  Service  employee  reported  that 
there  appeared  to  be  two  different  Parry  oatgrass  as- 
sociations on  this  site: 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Saddle  Mountain  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  Lake  George, 
CO,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2595  meters.  The 
elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  2775-3050  meters,  so  actual 
climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  quite  different  from  that  shown. 
Precipitation  was  averaged  over  36  years,  and  temperature  was 
averaged  over  32  years. 


1)  A  Parry  oatgrass-mountain  muhly  (Muhlen- 
bergia montana)  association  occurs  on  the  RNA's 
rockier  south-trending  slopes  of  up  to  25%  with 
elevations  from  2775-2835  meters.  Soils  are  de- 
rived from  volcanic  bedrock  and  are  relatively 
shallow,  moderately  fertile,  and  generally  rocky. 

2)  From  the  saddle  downward  to  the  valley  bot- 
tom, the  dominant  plant  association  is  Parry 
oatgrass-needleleaf  sedge  (Carex  eleocharis).  Ex- 
posure is  easterly  at  2775-2805-meter  elevations. 
Volcanic  soils  are  deep,  fertile,  and  well  drained. 
The  most  notable  vegetation  difference  from  the 
valley  bottom  to  the  adjacent  grazed  sites  is  the 
marked  reduction  in  Parry  oatgrass.  American 
vetch  (Vicia  americana),  needleleaf  sedge,  and 
Arizona  fescue  (Festuca  arizonica)  also  decreased 
under  grazing.  Along  the  same  gradient,  there 
is  a  sizeable  increase  in  mountain  muhly,  rose 
pussytoes  (Antennaria  rosea),  muttongrass  (Poa 
fendleriana),  and  squirrel-tail  (Sitanion  hystrix). 

The  establishment  record,  which  is  on  file  at  the 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Sta- 
tion in  Fort  Collins,  Colorado,  contains  lists  of  shrubs, 
grasses,  and  forbs  for  these  plant  associations. 

Fauna 

Mule  deer  (Odocoileus  hemionus)  are  present,  and  use 
by  elk  (Cervus  elaphus)  in  the  fall  to  early  winter  was 
reported  in  1985.  The  habitat  is  also  suitable  for  rabbits 
and  grouse,  and  the  population  of  porcupine  (Erethizon 
dorsatum)  was  reported  to  be  high  in  1951.  Much  of  the 
grassland  is  too  steep  and  too  far  from  water  to  be 
grazed  by  livestock.  Portions  of  the  area  were  grazed 
year-round  until  a  few  years  prior  to  1951,  and  until 
1951,  only  summer  grazing  occurred.  It  has  not  been 
grazed  by  domestic  livestock  since  1951,  except  for  the 
occasional  animal  that  wanders  onto  the  RNA. 

Status  and  Administration 

Saddle  Mountain  was  designated  a  Research  Natu- 
ral Area  in  March  1951  and  is  managed  under  spe- 
cial management  prescription  10A  of  the  Pike  and 
San  Isabel  National  Forest  Plan.  The  South  Park 
Ranger  District  (Fairplay,  CO  80440,  303-836-2031) 
has  responsibility  for  administration  and  protection 
of  the  RNA.  Saddle  Mountain  was  designated  a  sci- 
entific natural  area  by  the  Colorado  Natural  Areas 
Program  in  October  1980. 


35 


For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 


Research  and  Publications 

Saddle  Mountain  contains  an  excellent  expanse  of 
pristine  montane  grassland.  Very  few  similar  areas 
exist  on  Colorado's  Front  Range.  Similar,  grazed  veg- 
etation is  available  nearby  for  comparison.  Addition- 
ally, the  site  is  suitable  for  studying  the  invasion  of 
grasslands  and  succession.  We  found  no  published 
studies  of  the  RNA. 


36 


SHELL  CANYON  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Shell  Mountain  RNA  is  located  by  air  18  miles 
northwest  of  Greybull,  Wyoming,  and  6  miles  north- 
east of  Shell,  Wyoming,  in  Bighorn  County,  Paintrock 
Ranger  District,  Bighorn  National  Forest.  The  area 
lies  within  sections  10, 11, 14, 15,  and  16  of  Township 
53  North,  Range  90  West,  6th  Principal  Meridian.  The 
approximate  center  of  the  RNA  is  at  44  34'37"  North 
latitude,  107  39'51"  West  longitude. 

To  reach  the  RNA,  take  U.S.  Highway  14  east  8 
miles  from  the  town  of  Shell,  Wyoming,  to  the  Post 
Creek  Picnic  Ground,  the  only  place  along  this  high- 
way where  vehicles  can  leave  the  road  (fig.  1).  The 
highway  runs  somewhat  more  than  200  feet  from  the 
northern  boundary  of  the  RNA.  From  the  picnic  ground, 
several  undeveloped  trails  lead  into  the  RNA. 

Overview 

The  295-hectare  Shell  Canyon  site  was  the  first 
RNA  in  the  United  States  established  primarily  be- 
cause of  its  Rocky  Mountain  juniper  (Juniperus 
scopulorum)  community  (fig.  2).  Most  sites  with  Rocky 
Mountain  juniper  have  been  disturbed  by  grazing 
and  logging  for  fenceposts,  but  the  community  in 
Shell  canyon  is  in  good  condition.  An  extensive  sur- 
vey of  northern  Wyoming  showed  that  this  area 
shows  the  fewest  effects  from  human  disturbance, 
which  would  unnaturally  alter  vegetation  and  its 
succession.  Above  the  juniper  stands  are  stands  of 


Figure  1 .  —  Location  of  Shell  Canyon  RNA. 


Douglas-fir  (Pseudotsuga  menziesii)  on  steep  slopes, 
alternating  with  light-colored  limestone  rock  out- 
crops and  cliffs.  The  area  is  highly  scenic  and  con- 
tains a  number  of  outstanding  geological  features.  It 
contains  at  least  one  site  that  has  potential  for  rein- 
troducing peregrine  falcons  and  also  has  several 
populations  of  plant  species  endemic  to  the  western 
flank  of  the  Bighorn  Mountains.  The  RNA  is  drained 
by  two  intermittent  creeks,  Post  Creek  and  Shell  Creek. 

Climate 

The  climate  of  the  area  is  characterized  by  hot  dry 
summers  and  cool  dry  winters.  These  lower  slopes 
of  the  Bighorn  Mountains  are  in  a  rain  shadow  of  the 
Absaroka,  Wind  River,  and  Teton  mountains  to  the 
west  and,  therefore,  have  reduced  precipitation.  Av- 
erage annual  precipitation  at  the  western  foot  of  the 
Big  Horns  is  195  millimeters/year;  it  is  probably 
slightly  higher  at  Shell  Creek.  Most  of  the  precipita- 
tion comes  as  rain  or  wet  snow  in  April,  May,  and 
June  (38%  of  the  total),  with  a  secondary  peak  in  Sep- 
tember and  October  (20%  of  the  total).  Average  tem- 
perature is  8°C,  with  a  high  monthly  peak  of  22°C  in 
late  July.  The  coldest  month  is  January,  averaging  -7°C. 
These  data  are  based  on  an  average  of  the  records  from 
Lovell,  Hyattville,  and  Tensleep,  in  order  to  approxi- 
mate the  climate  at  the  western  base  of  the  Bighorns. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

Steep,  north-facing  limestone  cliffs  dominate  the 
site.  Below  these  cliffs  are  steep,  timbered  slopes,  and 
below  the  slopes  is  a  terrace  that  slopes  relatively 
gently  to  the  north  and  northwest.  The  terrace  gives 
way  to  the  steep  gorge  of  Shell  Canyon,  which  is  be- 
yond the  northern  boundary  of  the  RNA.  The  tops 
of  the  cliffs  that  form  the  southern  boundary  of  the 
area  vary  from  2025-2285  meters  in  elevation.  The 
terrace  below  the  cliffs  varies  from  1494  meters  at 
the  northwest  corner  of  the  RNA  to  about  1844  meters 
at  the  southeastern  end  of  the  terrace. 

The  Bighorn  Mountains  were  uplifted  during  the 
Eocene  Epoch,  and  now  form  an  anticlinal  massif, 
with  an  older  granite  central  plateau  and  younger 


37 


Figure  2.  —  Shell  Canyon  RNA  (photograph  by  Barry  C.  Johnston). 


sedimentary  rocks  on  the  flanks  of  the  range.  The 
area  contained  within  Shell  Mountain  RNA  was 
formed  from  the  cutting  of  Shell  Creek  through  the 
Madison  limestone  (Mississippian)  and  the  older  Big- 
horn dolomite  (Ordovician),  as  well  as  by  subsequent 
mass  movement  and  landslides.  The  soils  of  the  area 
are  generally  loams  and  gravelly  silt  loams;  rock  out- 
crops are  common. 

The  soils  have  been  classified  as  either  Grobutte 
Series,  which  supports  Rocky  Mountain  juniper 
(Junipems  scopulorum)  and  sagebrush  (Artemisia  spp.), 
or  Cloud  Peak  Series,  which  supports  Douglas-fir 
(Psendotsnga  menziesii).  A  small  part  of  the  western 
edge  of  the  area  is  classified  as  the  Starman  Series,  which 
supports  a  sparse  stand  of  curl-leaf  mountain  ma- 
hogany (Cercocarpus  ledifolius)  on  very  steep  slopes. 

Flora 

There  are  three  distinct,  conspicuous  plant  asso- 
ciations in  the  RNA,  two  associations  of  smaller  acre- 


age and  a  conspicuous  acreage  of  rock  outcrops  and 
cliffs.  The  three  major  plant  associations  are  described 
below. 

1)  Douglas-fir  (Pseudotsuga  menziesii)-mountam 
ninebark  (Physocarpus  monogynus)  plant  associa- 
tion. This  closed  canopy  Douglas-fir  forest  oc- 
curs on  steep  northeasterly  slopes  between  and 
just  below  the  limestone  cliffs.  This  plant  asso- 
ciation is  fairly  common  on  the  lower  west 
flanks  of  the  Bighorn  Mountains  on  limestone- 
derived  soils  and  northerly  36-45%  slopes,  at 
elevations  of  1585-2010  meters.  Commonly  as- 
sociated species  include  Douglas-fir,  mountain 
ninebark,  mountain  snowberry  (Symphoricarpos 
oreophilus),  prickly  rose  (Rosa  acicularis),  and 
mosses.  Douglas-fir  stands  in  this  area  are  very 
near  climax.  Limber  pine  (Pinus  flexilis)  and 
Rocky  mountain  juniper  are  commonly  associ- 
ated trees,  along  with  common  juniper  (Juniper- 
us  communis),  white  spiraea  (Spiraea  betulifolia), 


38 


Oregon  grape  (Berberis  repens),  heartleaf  arnica 
(Arnica  cordifolia),  and  northern  bedstraw 
(Galium  boreale  ssp.  septentrionale).  Grasses  and 
forbs  are  typically  sparse. 

2)  Rocky  Mountain  juniper-bluebunch  wheatgrass 
(Agropyron  spicatum)  plant  association.  This  ju- 
niper woodland  occurs  on  moderate  to  steep 
lower  slopes  between  the  Douglas-fir  forest 
above  and  the  sagebrush  on  the  terrace  below. 
Within  the  RNA,  this  plant  association  is  domi- 
nated by  Rocky  Mountain  juniper  and  blue- 
bunch  wheatgrass,  with  curl-leaf  mountain 
mahogany  (Cercocarpus  ledifolius)  a  conspicuous 
codominant.  There  are  occasional  isolated  Dou- 
glas-firs and  limber  pines.  Common  associates 
are  mountain  snowberry,  Ross  sedge  (Carex 
rossii),  junegrass  (Koeleria  pyramidata),  Geyer 
onion  (Allium  geyeri),  stemless  goldenweed 
(Stenotus  acaulis),  moss  phlox  (Phlox  muscoides), 
and  fleabane  (Erigeron  spp.). 

3)  Black  sagebrush  (Artemisia  arbuscula)-bluebunch 
wheatgrass  (Agropyron  spicatum)  plant  associa- 
tion. These  moderately  low  sagebrush  stands 
occur  on  benches  and  shallow  slopes  between 
the  juniper  forest  above  and  the  canyon  of  Shell 
Creek  below.  This  association  is  fairly  common 
at  lower  elevations  in  northwestern  Wyoming 
and  southern  Montana  on  moderately  shallow 
soils  where  precipitation  is  below  381  millime- 
ters/year. Common  species  in  this  association 
include  black  sagebrush,  bluebunch  wheatgrass, 
and  junegrass.  Occasionally,  isolated  mountain 
big  sagebrush  (Artemisia  tridentata  ssp.  vaseyana) 
plants  or  winterfat  (Eurotia  lanata)  can  be  found. 

In  addition  to  these  major  plant  associations, 
smaller  acreages  are  covered  by  curl-leaf  mountain 
mahogany-bluebunch  wheatgrass  plant  association. 
This  is  an  open  shrubland  occupying  very  steep, 
rocky  slopes  and  is  more  common  west  of  the  RNA. 
Common  plants  include  curl-leaf  mountain  ma- 
hogany, bluebunch  wheatgrass,  black  sagebrush,  and 
prairie  junegrass. 

The  one  small  patch  of  grassland  is  dominated  by 
western  needlegrass  (Stipa  occidentalis)  and  west- 
ern wheatgrass  (Agropyron  smithii),  with  smaller 


amounts  of  giant  wildrye  (Elymus  cinereus)  and  cur- 
rant species  (Ribes  spp.).  The  establishment  record, 
on  file  at  the  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Ex- 
periment Station  in  Fort  Collins,  Colorado,  contains 
more  complete  lists  of  plants  found  on  the  RNA. 

Fauna 

Mule  deer  (Odocoileus  hemionus)  are  common  in  the 
area  in  the  wintertime.  The  area  is  important  winter 
range,  with  Douglas-fir  stands  providing  valuable 
hiding  and  thermal  cover.  Elk  (Cervus  elaphus)  also 
use  the  area  as  winter  range,  but  to  a  lesser  extent 
than  mule  deer.  Bighorn  sheep  (Ovis  canadensis)  have 
recently  been  reestablished  in  the  vicinity.  Shell  Can- 
yon is  currently  among  the  sites  that  "should  be  pe- 
riodically surveyed  for  nesting  peregrine  falcons." 
The  RNA  may  contain  a  site  for  potential  reintroduc- 
tion  of  peregrines. 

Status  and  Administration 

Shell  Canyon  was  designated  a  Research  Natural 
Area  in  June  1987.  It  is  administered  under  special 
management  provision  10A,  Bighorn  National  For- 
est Plan.  The  Paintrock  Ranger  District  (Greybull,  WY 
82426,  307-765-4435)  has  responsibility  for  adminis- 
tration and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research  and  Publications 

The  area  is  suited  to  studies  of  Rocky  Mountain 
juniper  populations  that  have  been  relatively 
unimpacted  by  grazing  and  logging.  The  Paintrock 
Ranger  District  planned  to  reintroduce  bighorn  sheep 
to  Shell  Canyon  in  1993.  We  found  no  publications 
from  the  RNA. 


39 


SHEYENNE  SPRINGS  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Sheyenne  Springs  RNA  is  located  in  southeastern 
North  Dakota,  48  miles  southwest  of  Fargo,  North 
Dakota,  along  the  Sheyenne  River  as  it  passes 
through  the  Sheyenne  sandhills  in  Ransom  County. 
It  is  part  of  the  Sheyenne  National  Grassland  of  the 
Custer  National  Forest  and  is  administered  by  the 
Sheyenne  Ranger  District.  The  RNA  is  located  in  Sec- 
tion 2  of  Township  135  North,  Range  53  West,  5th 
Principal  Meridian.  The  center  of  the  RNA  lies  at  46 
3210"  North  latitude  and  97  18'30"  West  longitude. 

To  reach  the  RNA  from  Lisbon,  North  Dakota,  pro- 
ceed 16  miles  west  on  State  Highway  27,  and  then 
7.5  miles  in  a  mainly  northerly  direction  on  County 
Road  FAS  3733  (gravel)  to  a  gated  entry  at  the  SW  1  / 
4  of  Section  2  (fig.  1).  Turn  right  (east)  at  the  gated 
entry  and  proceed  east  along  the  unimproved  two- 


Sheldon 


Figure  1.  —  Location  of  Sheyenne  Springs  RNA. 


track  road  until  the  treeline  marking  the  west  edge 
of  the  RNA  is  reached.  There  are  no  trails  within  the 
RNA  except  for  game  trails  and  an  impassible  aban- 
doned primitive  road  that  once  ran  along  the  west- 
ern edge  of  the  wetland. 

Overview 

The  23-hectare  RNA  is  a  spring-fed  wetland  com- 
plex that  has  been  protected  from  livestock  grazing 
since  1974  and  is  noted  for  its  abundant  wildlife  (fig. 
2).  Beaver  (Castor  canadensis)  are  very  active  in  the 
RNA  and  significantly  shape  the  ecosystem  with 
dams  and  ponds.  The  wetland  complex  represents  a 
number  of  undisturbed,  highly  restricted,  specialized 
aquatic  habitats  and  their  characteristic  flora  and 
fauna;  its  most  extensive  habitat  is  calcium  carbon- 
ate peat  wetland,  or  fen.  Sheyenne  Springs  is  among 
the  10  most  significant  wetland  sites  in  the  North 
Dakota  in  terms  of  its  total  number  of  rare  species.  It 
hosts  the  highest  known  number  of  state  rare  spe- 
cies in  North  Dakota — including  18  rare  species  that 
are  considered  relicts,  with  a  boreal  affinity  more 
closely  resembling  the  paleoflora  immediately  after 
the  lowering  of  glacial  Lake  Agassiz. 

Climate 

Southeastern  North  Dakota  has  among  the  high- 
est mean  annual  precipitation  levels  of  the  state,  with 
509  millimeters  at  the  nearest  monitoring  station  in 
Lisbon,  about  20  miles  southwest  of  the  RNA  at  an 
elevation  of  332  meters.  The  length  of  record  is  90  years 
(1992).  About  70%  of  the  precipitation  occurs  between 
April  and  August.  Most  summer  rainfall  originates  with 
thunderstorms  and  is  highly  variable  in  area  and  mag- 
nitude. The  average  maximum  temperature  is  12°C;  the 
average  minimum  temperature  is  -2°C. 

Effective  climatic  conditions  vary  greatly  with 
slope,  aspect,  and  topographical  position.  Particu- 
larly important  in  the  Sheyenne  Sandhills  are  sub- 
strate and  depth  to  groundwater.  Upland  microcli- 
mates can  become  droughty  in  contrast  to  areas  with 
stable  groundwater  discharges  as  found  along  the 
Sheyenne  River  as  it  crosses  the  sandhills.  These  ex- 


40 


Figure  2. — Large  Beaver  Pond  in  Sheyenne  Springs  RNA  (photograph  by  Angela  Evenden). 


tremes  in  local  microclimates  are  represented  within 
the  RNA. 


Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

Elevations  within  the  RNA  range  from  300  meters 
at  the  stream  on  the  lower  end  of  the  site  to  335  meters 
at  the  highest  sandhill  along  the  west-central  border. 
The  RNA  is  a  small  valley  above  the  Sheyenne  River, 
representing  a  spring-fed  wetland  system  of  stable 
Sheyenne  Delta  aquifer  discharge.  It  is  a  peatland 
stream  complex  interrupted  by  beaver  impound- 
ments and  surrounded  by  woodland. 

North  Dakota's  Sheyenne  Sandhills  were  formed 
from  an  enormous  delta  at  the  mouth  of  the  Sheyenne 
River  when  it  carried  glacial  meltwater  into  glacial  Lake 
Agassiz.  This  glacial  deposit  is  the  largest  on  the  conti- 
nent and  is  not  typical  of  the  prevailing  fine-textured 
deposits  that  make  up  the  rest  of  the  glacial  lakebed 
that  is  referred  to  as  the  Red  River  Valley.  The  deltaic 


deposits  in  the  RNA  overlie  the  Belle  Fourche  Forma- 
tion bedrock,  buried  215-245  meters  below  the  surface. 

Gently  rolling  sheet-deposit  sandplains  (Holocene 
Formation)  cover  much  of  the  Sheyenne  Sandhills. 
In  limited  areas,  the  sands  have  been  reworked  by 
winds  into  low-relief  sand  dunes  and  into  localized 
high-relief  sand  dunes  with  over  25  meters  of  relief. 
This  setting  is  dissected  by  the  Sheyenne  River  and 
fine-textured  alluvium  (the  Oahe  Formation)  depos- 
ited on  the  valley  floor.  Glacial  Lake  Agassiz  ad- 
vanced and  retreated  more  than  once,  so  deposits 
underlying  the  Sheyenne  Sandhills  are  heteroge- 
neous. In  high-water  intervals,  the  lake  levels  rose 
and  fine  deposits  of  silts  and  clays  overlaid  the  sand, 
later  to  be  buried  again  in  sand  when  the  lake  level 
dropped.  The  less  porous  silt  and  clay  deposits  clos- 
est to  the  surface  make  up  the  Sheyenne  Delta  Aqui- 
fer; the  water  table  is  usually  less  than  3  meters  be- 
low the  upland  surface. 

Most  of  the  soils  of  the  RNA  are  peat — anaerobic 
soils  made  up  of  unconsolidated  plant  deposits  that 


41 


are  waterlogged  and  poorly  drained.  Upland  soils 
are  the  Serden  stabilized  dune  complex,  making  an 
abrupt  transition  from  lowlying  peat  soils.  Upland 
soils  are  fine  sands  or  fine  loamy  sands. 

Flora 

Sheyenne  Springs  RNA  contains  the  following 
plant  associations:  bog  birch- water  sedge  (Betida  glan- 
dulosa-Carex  aquatilis),  alder-jewelweed  (Alnus  rug- 
osa-Impatiens  capensis),  willow /red-osier  dogwood 
(Salix  discolor --Cornus  stolonifera),  slough  sedge  (Carex 
atherodes),  reed  canary-grass  (Phalaris  arundinacea), 
water  crowfoot  {Ranunculus  aquatilis),  slough  grass- 
American  manna  grass  emergents  (Beckmannia  syzi- 
gachne-Glyceria  maxima  ssp.  grandis),  aspen-wild  sarsa- 
parilla  (Populus  tremuloides-Aralia  nudicaulis),  bur  oak- 
chokecherry  (Quercus  macrocarpa-Prunus  virginiana), 
green  ash-sedge  (Fraxinus  pennsylvanica-Carex  sprengelii), 
green  ash-basswood  (Fraxinus  pennsylvanica-Tilia 
americana),  and  big  bluestem-prairie  sand-reed  (Andro- 
pogon  gerardii-Calamovilfa  longifolia). 

Of  853  species  that  have  been  documented  from 
North  Dakota's  three  southeastern  counties,  150  are 
known  from  within  the  enclosure  forming  the  RNA 
boundary.  Many  of  these  are  wetland  species.  No 
federally  listed  threatened  or  endangered  species  are 
known  to  exist  on  the  RNA.  Twelve  state  rare  vascu- 
lar plant  species  are  documented  in  the  RNA.  They 
are:  lady  fern  (Athyriumfilixfemina),  marsh  bellflower 
(Campanula  aparinoides),  delicate  sedge  (Carex  leptalea), 
yellow  lady's  slipper  orchid  (Cypripedium  calceolus 
var.  parviflorum) ,  showy  lady's  slipper  orchid  (Cypri- 
pedium reginae),  crested  woodfern  (Dryopteris  cristata), 
spinulose  woodfern  (Dryopteris  spinulosa),  marsh 
horsetail  (Equisetum  palustre),  western  wahoo  (Euony- 
mus  atropurpureus),  bog  bedstraw  (Galium  labra- 
c/onawz),buckbean  (Menyanthes  trifoliata),  and  marsh 
fern  (Thelypteris  thelypteroides).  Other  uncommon 
species  are  Carex  prairea,  Clematis  ligusticifolia,  Eupa- 
torium  perfoliatum,  and  Osmorhiza  claytonii,  and  a  rare 
liverwort  (Ricciocarpus  natans)  has  been  collected 
floating  on  the  flowing  stream. 

It  is  noteworthy  that  Sheyenne  Springs  is  among 
the  few  places  in  the  Sheyenne  National  Grassland 
where  four  of  the  eight  rare  Sheyenne  Sandhills  ferns 
and  fern  allies  grow  together.  The  occurrences  of  marsh 
horsetail  and  delicate  sedge  are  also  significant  in  that 
the  former  is  among  the  biggest  population  of  the  spe- 
cies in  the  state  and  the  latter  had  not  been  collected  in 
the  sandhills  area  for  50  years  until  recent  inventory 


work.  The  peatland  also  has  a  rich  bryophyte  flora,  but 
mosses  have  not  been  studied  at  the  site  to  date. 

An  extensive  list  of  trees,  shrubs,  graminoids,  forbs, 
ferns,  and  fern  allies  found  on  the  RNA  is  included 
in  the  establishment  record,  which  is  on  file  at  the 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Sta- 
tion in  Fort  Collins,  Colorado. 

Fauna 

To  date,  a  total  of  64  bird  species  are  believed  to 
breed  at  the  site,  including  five  game  species:  mal- 
lard (Anas  platyrhynchos),  blue-winged  teal  (Anas 
discors),  wood  duck  (Aix  sponsa),  wild  turkey 
(Meleagris  gallopavo),  and  mourning  dove  (Zenaida 
macroura).  Five  of  the  RNA's  breeding  species  are 
considered  by  the  North  Dakota  Natural  Heritage 
Inventory  to  be  rare  in  the  state:  western  wood-pewee 
(Contopus  sordidulus),  pileated  woodpecker  (Dryo- 
copus  pileatus),  scarlet  tanager  (Piranga  olivacea), 
American  woodcock  (Scolopax  minor),  and  eastern 
bluebird  (Sialia  sialis).  A  complete  list  of  birds  sighted 
at  the  RNA  is  contained  in  the  establishment  record. 

Mammals  observed  and  believed  to  breed  at  the 
site  include  white-tailed  deer  (Odocoileus  virginianus), 
raccoon  (Procyon  lotor),  red  squirrel  (Tamiasciurus 
hudsonicus),  badger  (Taxidea  taxus),  and  beaver.  A 
population  of  Sheyenne  Sandhills  moose  (Alces  alces) 
is  also  known  to  have  used  the  wetland  habitat  at 
least  two  winters  in  recent  years. 

Amphibians  and  reptiles  have  not  been  invento- 
ried at  the  site.  The  gray  tree  frog  (Hyla  versicolor), 
which  is  presently  on  the  list  of  state  rare  animals 
(compiled  by  the  North  Dakota  Natural  Heritage 
Inventory),  has  been  photographed  there. 

Fish  and  mollusks,  including  several  state  rare  spe- 
cies, may  be  associated  with  the  spring-fed  stream 
discharge  below  the  enclosure,  but  free-flowing 
stream  habitat  is  rare  within  the  boundaries.  Never- 
theless, the  high  volume  of  spring  discharge  emitted 
from  the  enclosure  makes  it  important  for  maintain- 
ing local  fisheries  and  water  quality  by  providing 
cool,  stable  conditions.  Rare  fish  of  the  lower 
Sheyenne  River  include  the  hornyhead  chub  (Nocomis 
biguttatus),  greater  redhorse  (Moxostoma  valen- 
ciennesi),  pugnose  shiner  (Notropis  anogenus),  and 
blacknose  shiner  (Notropis  heterolepis).  Rare  mussels 
of  the  lower  Sheyenne  River  include  at  least  the  pig- 
toe  mussel  (Fusconaiaflava),  black  sand-shell  mussel 
(Eigumia  recta),  and  pink  heelsplitter  mussel  (Pota- 
milus  alatus). 


42 


Butterflies  and  other  insects  have  not  been  inven- 
toried on  the  site.  Butterflies  that  are  rare  in  the  state 
have  been  documented  from  wetland  habitats  in  the 
nearby  Mirror  Pool  Wildlife  Management  Area.  Up- 
land habitat  immediately  northeast  of  the  site  has 
been  the  collection  point  of  Hesperia  dacotae,  a  butter- 
fly considered  as  a  candidate  for  federal  listing. 

Status  and  Administration 

Sheyenne  Springs  was  designated  a  Research 
Natural  Area  in  Marcn  1992.  It  is  managed  under 
special  management  prescription  10A,  Custer  Na- 
tional Forest  Plan.  The  Sheyenne  Ranger  District 
(Lisbon,  ND  58054,  701-683-4342)  is  responsible  for 
administration  and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 


Research 

The  RNA  is  an  appropriate  site  for  research  involv- 
ing wetlands,  especially  the  fen  type,  as  well  as  re- 
search involving  any  of  the  rare  plant  and  animal 
species  found  on  the  RNA. 

Publications 

North  Dakota  Parks  and  Recreation  Department. 
1990.  Inventory  of  rare  plant  species  in  the 
Sheyenne  National  Grassland,  Ransom  and 
Richland  Counties,  North  Dakota.  Bismarck,  ND: 
North  Dakota  Parks  and  Recreation  Department. 

Seiler,  G.J.  1973.  Vascular  flora  of  Richland,  Ransom 
and  Sargent  counties,  North  Dakota.  Fargo,  ND: 
North  Dakota  State  University.  192  p.  M.S.  thesis. 

Seiler,  G.J.;  Barker,  W.T.  1985.  Vascular  flora  of 
Richland,  Ransom  and  Sargent  counties,  North 
Dakota.  Prairie  Naturalist.  17(3):  193-240. 

Thompson,  D.G;  Joos,  L.L.  1975.  Soil  survey  of 
Richland  County  and  the  Sheyenne  National 
Grassland  area  of  Ransom  County.  Bismarck,  ND: 
U.S.  Soil  Conservation  Service  and  Forest  Service, 
in  cooperation  with  North  Dakota  Agricultural 
Experiment  Station. 


43 


SIGNAL  HILL  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Signal  Hill  RNA  is  located  10  miles  southwest  of 
Halsey,  Nebraska,  in  Thomas  County,  Bessey  Ranger 
District  of  the  Nebraska  National  Forest.  The  RNA 
occupies  portions  of  sections  3,  and  4,  Township  21 
North,  Range  27  West,  6th  Principal  Meridian.  Ap- 
proximate latitude  is  41  48'  North;  approximate  lon- 
gitude is  100  24'  West. 

To  reach  Signal  Hill,  travel  east  from  Thedford, 
Nebraska,  on  State  Highway  2  for  approximately  15 
miles.  One  mile  west  of  the  town  of  Halsey,  take  a 
right  at  a  national  forest  sign;  cross  railroad  tracks 
and  the  Middle  Loup  River,  then  take  a  right  after  a 
cattleguard  onto  Forest  Service  Road  86B.  The  Bessey 
Ranger  District  office  is  0.25-0.50  miles  on  the  left. 
Pass  the  office  and  continue  toward  the  lookout 
tower.  On  the  left  is  a  gravel  road  marked  "203  East." 
Follow  this  road  until  approximately  mile  marker  12, 
then  take  a  right  at  a  gate  and  go  0.5  miles.  The  RNA 
lies  at  the  highest  point  in  the  ranger  district  (fig.  1). 


100 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 

Figure  2.  —  Long-term  monthly  average  of  mean  temperature  and 
precipitation  for  the  NOAA  weather  station  closest  to  Signal  Hill 
RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Purdum,  NE,  weather  station,  which 
is  at  an  elevation  of  820  meters.  The  elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges 
from  860-885  meters,  so  actual  climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be 
similar  to  that  shown.  Precipitation  and  temperature  were  aver- 
aged over  43  years. 


Figure  1.  —  Location  of  Signal  Hill  RNA. 


Overview 

Signal  Hill  RNA  consists  of  approximately  283 
hectares  of  Nebraska  sandhills  prairie  in  the  drain- 
age of  the  Middle  Loup  River.  The  tract  is  represen- 
tative of  the  rougher  sandhill-type  terrain  bordering 
rivers  in  the  state's  sandhills  area  and  reflects  natu- 
ral vegetative  growth  and  trends  of  the  approxi- 
mately 51,800  square  kilometers  of  land  that  lie  north 
of  the  Platte  River  and  west  of  the  middle  line  of  Holt 
and  Greeley  Counties,  Nebraska — approximately 
one-quarter  of  the  entire  state.  Elevations  in  the  Sig- 
nal Hill  RNA  range  from  860-885  meters  above  sea 
level. 

Climate 

Average  annual  precipitation  at  the  weather  sta- 
tion nearest  the  RNA  is  545  millimeters.  Precipita- 
tion is  well  distributed  throughout  the  year,  although 
heavier  in  May,  June,  and  July,  with  September,  Oc- 
tober, and  November  being  regarded  as  the  dry 
months  (fig.  2).  The  average  annual  temperature  is 
9°C.  Average  annual  monthly  maximum  temperature 


44 


is  17°C;  average  annual  monthly  minimum  tempera- 
ture is  1°C.  High  velocity  winds  occur  most  fre- 
quently in  the  winter  and  spring  months;  the  annual 
average  for  wind  velocity  is  18  kilometers  per  hour. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  RNA's  terrain  is  one  of  choppy  hills  or  sand 
dunes  that  support  a  good  vegetative  cover.  The 
dunes  in  the  vicinity  of  the  site  are  described  by  ge- 
ologists as  being  the  youngest  of  the  hills  in  the  area 
and  are  still  affected  by  wind,  although  the  1950  es- 
tablishment record  indicated  that  the  dunes  had  be- 
come more  stable  with  the  absence  of  trampling  by 
herds  of  deer,  elk,  and  buffalo.  The  site's  soil  is  prac- 
tically pure  silica,  containing  less  than  1%  organic 
matter.  There  are  no  lakes  or  streams  in  the  RNA;  it 
is  an  intermingled  composition  of  dunes  and  small 
valleys  without  drainage. 

Flora 

The  establishment  record  listed  the  area's  domi- 
nant cover  type  as  sandhills  grassland.  Sand  love- 
grass  (Eragrostis  hallii)  is  characteristic  of  the  north 
slopes  and  some  of  the  swales.  Sandhill  bluestem 
(Andropogon  chrysocomus)  is  a  common  pioneer  in 
blowouts  and  on  steep  south  slopes.  Prairie  sand- 
reed  (Calamovilfa  longifolia)  is  abundant  over  a  wide 
range  of  habitats.  Other  characteristic  grasses  also 
found  in  the  area  include  little  bluestem  (Schizachyr- 
ium  scoparius),  blowout  grass  (Redfieldia  flexuosa),  In- 
dian grass  (Sorghastrum  nutans),  switchgrass  (Panicum 
virgatum),  sandhill  muhly  (Muhlenbergia  pungens), 
needle-and-thread  (Stipa  comata),  and  sedge  (Carex 
heliophila). 

Important  mixed  prairie  species  observed  are  west- 
ern wheatgrass  (Agropyron  smithii),  blue  grama 
(Bouteloua  gracilis),  hairy  grama  (B.  hirsuta),  green 
needlegrass  (Stipa  viridula),  and  red  threeawn 
(Aristida  longiseta).  The  shrub  communities  within  the 
RNA  constitute  a  desirable  feature,  since  in  many 
other  locations,  these  forms  have  been  killed  by  over- 


grazing. Present  in  considerable  numbers  are  wild 
plum  (Prunus  americana),  choke  cherry  (P.  virginiana), 
New  Jersey  tea  (Ceanothus  herbaceus),  sand  cherry  (P. 
besseyi),  lead  plant  (Amorpha  canescens),  rose  (Rosa 
arkansana),  yucca  (Yucca  glauca),  and  poison  ivy 
(Toxicodendron  radicans). 

Fauna 

Except  for  an  occasional  mule  deer  (Odocoileus 
hemionus)  and  pronghorn  antelope  (Antilocapra 
americana),  there  are  no  species  of  big  game  in  the 
area.  The  area  was  heavily  populated  with  coyotes 
(Canis  latrans)  in  1950.  Sharptailed  grouse  (Tymp- 
anuchus  phasianellus)  and  greater  prairie  chicken 
(Tympanuchus  cupido)  are  found  in  the  area.  Other 
wildlife  in  the  area  include  rattlesnakes,  rabbits 
(scarce),  Ord's  kangaroo  rats  (Dipodomys  ordii),  por- 
cupines (Erethizon  dorsatum),  and  plains  pocket  go- 
phers (Geomys  bursarius). 

Status  and  Administration 

Signal  Hill  Research  Natural  Area  was  designated 
in  May  1950.  It  is  managed  under  special  manage- 
ment prescription  10  A  of  the  Nebraska  National  For- 
est Plan.  Bessey  Ranger  District  (Halsey,  NE  69142, 
308-533-2257)  has  responsibility  for  administration 
and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research  and  Publications 

Signal  Hill  is  an  appropriate  site  for  research  in- 
volving the  ecology  of  the  Nebraska  Sandhills.  We 
found  no  published  studies  on  the  RNA. 


45 


SNOWY  RANGE  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Snowy  Range  RNA  is  located  6  miles  northwest  of 
Centennial,  Albany  County,  Wyoming,  in  the 
Laramie  Ranger  District  of  the  Medicine  Bow  Na- 
tional Forest.  The  RNA  is  contained  in  portions  of 
sections  13, 14, 15, 22, 23,  and  24,  Township  16  North, 
Range  79  West,  6th  Principal  Meridian,  at  41  21'  North 
latitude  and  106  14'  West  longitude.  To  reach  this 
RNA,  travel  37  miles  west  of  Laramie  and  6  miles 
northwest  of  Centennial  on  State  Highway  130.  At 
the  Libby  Creek  Recreation  Area,  continue  to  the  right 
to  the  Greenrock  Picnic  Ground.  A  curlicue  of  roads 
west  of  the  picnic  area  lead  into  the  RNA;  the  high- 
way passes  within  60  meters  of  the  RNA  at  the  clos- 
est point  (fig.  1). 

Overview 

Snowy  Range  RNA  comprises  312  hectares  of 
mixed  Engelmann  spruce  (Picea  engelmannii)  and 
subalpine  fir  (Abies  lasiocarpa)  forest  (fig.  2).  Much  of 
the  Medicine  Bow  National  Forest  was  cut  over  for 
ties  at  the  time  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad  was  con- 
structed. Certain  small  areas  of  the  dominant  spruce- 
fir  timber  that  grew  at  higher  elevations  were  passed 
by;  this  may  have  been  due  to  location  or  because 
the  railroad  preferred  lodgepole  pine  (Pinus  contorta) 
for  their  ties.  The  Snowy  Range  RNA  has  not  been 
logged,  although  the  lodgepole  pine  growing  within 
3  miles  of  the  area  has  been  cut. 


V  North 
\  Fotk 
\CG 

©  A 

Snowy 
Range 
RNA 

CreeV  ) 

RA       S  - 

\Q  Centennial 

% 

Latamie  * 

Figure  1 .  —  Location  of  Snowy  Range  RNA. 


Climate 

At  the  weather  station  nearest  the  RNA,  average 
annual  precipitation  is  364  millimeters,  and  the  av- 
erage annual  temperature  is  5°C  (fig.  3).  The  average 
annual  monthly  maximum  temperature  is  12°C;  the 
average  annual  minimum  temperature  is  2°C.  There 
is  no  average  frost-free  period.  Weather  data  is  avail- 
able for  the  nearby  Glacier  Lakes  Ecosystem  Experi- 
ment Site  (GLEES)  for  recent  years  (Musselman  1994). 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  general  aspect  of  the  area  is  rolling,  and  the 
predominant  slope  is  to  the  northeast.  It  is  drained 
by  Nash  Fork  Creek  along  its  northern  border  and 
Sally  Creek  through  its  center;  both  creeks  are  part 
of  the  Little  Laramie  River  drainage.  There  are  three 
small  lakes;  the  largest  is  Swastika  Lake.  Elevations 
on  the  site  range  from  approximately  2985  meters 
above  sea  level  in  the  southeast  corner  to  3230  meters 
in  the  westernmost  reaches. 

The  soils  are  typical  for  the  elevation  and  general 
location:  thin,  nonalkaline,  and  formed  of  weathered 
gneiss  and  an  accumulation  of  decomposed  conifer- 
ous litter.  The  slightly  acid  conditions  of  coniferous 
forests  prevail,  and  podsolization  is  at  a  minimum. 

Flora 

The  RNA  consists  of  216  hectares  of  mixed  Engel- 
mann spruce  and  subalpine  fir  and  83  hectares  of 
lodgepole  pine.  In  addition,  there  are  approximately 
4  hectares  of  grassland  and  4  hectares  of  shrubland, 
and  approximately  5  hectares  covered  by  lakes.  A 
detailed  vegetation  survey  has  not  been  completed 
for  Snowy  Range. 

Fauna 

Small  animals  are  abundant.  Although  mule  deer 
(Odocoileus  hemionns)  is  the  only  common  big-game 
animal,  an  occasional  elk  (Cervus  elaphus)  passes 
through  this  area.  The  ponds  do  not  support  fish. 


46 


Figure  2.  —  Snowy  Range  RNA. 


Status  and  Administration 

The  site  was  designated  as  an  RNA  in  January  1936. 
It  is  managed  under  special  management  prescrip- 
tion 10A  of  the  Medicine  Bow  National  Forest  Plan. 
The  Laramie  Ranger  District  (Laramie,  WY  82070, 
307-745-8971)  has  responsibility  for  administration 
and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research 

Snowy  Range  RNA  has  been  used  to  study  subal- 
pine  forests  in  pristine  condition.  The  availablity  of  ex- 


c 
o 

to 

'q. 

o 

CD 
CL 
>> 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 

Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Snowy  Range  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  Centennial,  WY, 
weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2480  meters.  The  el- 
evation of  the  RNA  ranges  from  2985-3230  meters,  so  actual  cli- 
mate at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  very  different  from  that  shown.  Pre- 
cipitation and  temperature  were  averaged  over  38  years. 


47 


tensive  data  from  the  nearby  GLEES  experimantal  site 
increases  the  utility  of  Snowy  Range  as  a  research  site. 


Publications 

Fichter,  Edson.  1939.  An  ecological  study  of  Wyoming 
spruce-fir  forest  arthropods  with  special  reference  to 
stratification.  Ecological  Monographs.  9(2):  183-215. 

Hadley,  J.L.;  Smith,  W.K.  1983.  Influence  of  wind  ex- 
posure on  needle  desiccation  and  mortality  for  tim- 
berline  conifers  in  Wyoming,  USA.  Arctic  and  Al- 
pine Research.  15:  127-135. 

Hanna,  L.A.  1934.  The  major  plant  communities  of 
the  headwater  area  of  the  Little  Laramie  River. 
University  of  Wyoming  Publication,  Botany.  1(10): 
243-266. 

Hansen,  H.R  1940.  Ring  growth  and  dominance  in  a 
spruce-fir  association  in  southern  Wyoming. 
American  Midland  Naturalist.  23:  442-447. 


Knapp,  A.K.;  Smith  W.K.  1981.  Water  relations  and 
succession  in  subalpine  conifers  in  southeastern 
Wyoming.  Botanical  Gazette.  142(4):  502-511. 

Knapp,  A.K.  1982.  Factors  influencing  understory 
establishment  of  Engelmann  spruce  (Picea 
engelmannii)  and  subalpine  fir  (Abies  lasiocarpa) 
in  southeast  Wyoming.  Canadian  Journal  of 
Botany.  60:  2753-2761. 

Musselman,  R.C.  1994.  The  Glacier  Lakes  Ecosystem 
Experiment  Site:  an  alpine  global  change  research 
study  area.  Gen.  Tech.  Rep.  Fort  Collins,  CO:  U.S.  De- 
partment of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service,  Rocky  Moun- 
tain Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station  [In  Press]. 

Oosting,  H.J.;  Reed,  J.F  1952.  Virgin  spruce-fir  of  the 
Medicine  Bow  mountains,  Wyoming.  Ecological 
Monographs.  22:  6991. 

Young,  D.R.;  Smith,  W.K.  1982.  Simulation  studies  of 
the  influence  of  understory  location  and  transpor- 
tation and  photosynthesis  of  Arnica  cordifolia  on 
clear  days.  Ecology.  63:  1761-1770. 


48 


TWO  TOP  AND  BIG  TOP  MESAS  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Two  Top  and  Big  Top  Mesas  RNA  is  located  in 
North  Dakota  badlands  country  6  miles  east  of  the 
Little  Missouri  River  in  the  Magpie  Creek  drainage. 
Two  Top  Mesa  is  in  the  center  of  the  S  1  /  2  of  Section 
10  and  Big  Top  Mesa  in  the  SE  1  /4  of  Section  9,  Town- 
ship 144  North,  Range  101  West.  Both  mesas  are 
within  the  Medora  Ranger  District  of  the  Little  Mis- 
souri National  Grassland,  which  is  part  of  the  Custer 
National  Forest.  The  RNA  is  located  at  47  18'  North 
latitude  and  103  29'  West  latitude. 

The  RNA  can  be  reached  from  Interstate  94  by  go- 
ing north  on  State  Highway  85  from  the  Belfield  in- 
terchange 22  miles  to  Magpie  Road  (fig.  1).  Go  east 
on  this  road  16  miles  to  Mr.  Willis  Northrup's  turn  in 
the  center  of  Section  15,  Township  144  North,  Range 
101  West.  Go  north  0.75  miles  via  a  dry-weather  coun- 
try road  to  a  gate  at  a  saddle  of  a  gentle  divide  be- 
tween Big  Top  and  Two  Top;  the  mesas  are  a  mile 
apart.  The  route  to  climb  Big  Top  is  on  the  mesa's 
northeast  corner;  the  ridge  at  the  southwest  end  of 
Two  Top  is  best  to  climb.  Both  climbs  are  rough 
scrambles. 


Figure  1 .  —  Map  of  Two  Top  and  Big  Top  Mesas  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Overview 

Because  of  their  steep  sides,  these  badlands  mesas 
are  not  accessible  to  livestock  and  support  remnant 
examples  of  midgrass  prairie  grassland  protected 
from  grazing,  fire,  and  other  influences.  The  RNA 
encompasses  32  hectares,  including  6  hectares  of 
mesa  tops  (fig.  2). 

Climate 

Based  on  data  from  the  nearest  weather  station  in 
Fairfield,  ND,  the  average  annual  temperature  is  5°C, 
and  the  average  annual  precipitation  is  386  millime- 
ters (fig.  3).  A  large  proportion  of  the  precipitation 
falls  between  April  and  September,  often  in  severe 
localized  storms  that  can  drop  as  much  as  178  milli- 
meters of  rain  and  hail  in  a  short  time.  Under  drought 
conditions,  precipitation  as  low  as  152  millimeters/ 
year  has  been  recorded.  Of  96  years  recorded,  16  years 
had  precipitation  totals  of  less  than  279  millimeters. 
More  than  152  millimeters  of  snowpack  exists  on 
average  only  22  days  per  year.  This  is  a  windy  area, 
with  prevailing  winds  from  the  northwest.  The  av- 
erage frost-free  period  is  May  20  to  September  15. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

These  flat-topped,  steep-sided  mesas  rise  about  120 
meters  above  the  surrounding  area.  Elevation  of  both 
mesas  is  975  meters  above  sea  level.  These  mesas  are 
remnants  of  a  higher  land  level.  All  of  the  surround- 
ing land  has  eroded  away,  leaving  the  mesas  with 
their  clay  and  sandstone  escarpments  and  their 
Morton  silt  loam  soil  overlying  clay  loam  at  0.75-1 
meter  soil  depth. 

Flora 

A  sampling  of  the  midgrass  prairie  on  the  tops  of 
the  mesas  yielded  this  composition:  western  wheat- 
grass  (Agropyron  smithii),  44%;  blue  grama  (Bouteloua 
gracilis),  21%;  thickspike  wheatgrass  (Agropyron 
dasystachyum) ,  14%;  junegrass  (Koeleria  pyramidata), 
5%;  needle-and-thread  (Stipa  comata),  5%;  threadleaf 
sedge  (Carexfilifolia),  2%;  and  green  needlegrass  (Stipa 


49 


Figure  2.  —  Big  Top  Mesa  viewed  from  Two  Top  Mesa  (photograph  by  Angela  Evenden). 


viridula),  2%.  Sedge  (Carex  eleocharis),  pasture  sage- 
brush (Artemisia  frigida),  blue-flowered  lettuce 
(Lactuca  pulchella),  Poa  canbyi,  and  plains  reedgrass 
(Calamagrostis  montanensis)  are  also  present  in  lesser 
amounts.  Many  other  less  common  species  are  given 
in  Quinnild  and  Cosby  (1958). 

Fauna 

The  mesas  are  secondary  habitat  for  white-tailed 
deer  (Odocoileus  virginianus).  Other  animals  known 
to  be  present  on  the  mesas  include  coyote  (Canis 
latrans),  badger  (Taxidea  taxus),  rabbits,  mice,  and 
snakes. 

Status  and  Administration 

Two  Top  and  Big  Top  Mesas  RNA  was  designated 
a  Research  Natural  Area  in  January  1973.  It  is  ad- 
ministered under  special  management  prescription 
10A  of  the  Custer  National  Forest  Plan.  The  Medora 


100 


E 

E, 

80 

c 

o 

60 

"a. 

o 

CL 

>. 

40 

SZ 

c 

o 

20 

c 

CO 

CD 

0 

Two  Top  and 
Big  Top  Mesas 


J  .—J  I  I  I  L_ 


_l  I  L_ 


50 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


o 

40 

o 
CD 

CO 

30 

pei 

E 

CD 

I— 

20 

4— ' 

c 

o 

10 

c 

CO 

CD 

0 

-10 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Two  Top  and  Big  Top  Mesas  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the 
Fairfield,  ND,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  840 
meters.  The  elevation  of  the  RNA  is  975  meters,  so  actual  climate 
will  likely  be  similar  to  that  shown.  Precipitation  was  averaged 
over  44  years,  and  temperature  was  averaged  over  37  years. 


50 


Ranger  District  (Dickinson,  ND  58601, 701-225-5151) 
is  responsible  for  administration  and  protection  of 
the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 


Research 

The  mesas  are  appropriate  sites  for  studies  involv- 
ing midgrass  prairie  grassland  in  pristine  condition 
and,  especially,  for  comparison  with  nearby  grazed 
areas. 

Publications 

Quinnild,  C.L.;  Cosby,  H.E.  1958.  Relicts  of  climax 
vegetation  on  two  mesas  in  western  North  Dakota. 
Ecology.  39(1):  29-32. 


51 


UPPER  PINE  CREEK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Upper  Pine  Creek  RNA  is  located  in  Pennington 
County,  South  Dakota,  5  miles  southeast  of  Hill  City, 
South  Dakota,  in  the  Harney  Ranger  District  of  the 
Black  Hills  National  Forest.  The  site  lies  at  43  52' 
North  latitude,  103  30'  West  longitude.  The  RNA  is 
located  in  portions  of  sections  10,  11, 15,  16,  21,  and 
22  of  Township  2  South,  Range  5  East,  Black  Hills 
Meridian. 

To  reach  the  RNA,  travel  south  from  Hill  City  on 
Highway  385  for  approximately  3  miles  to  the  inter- 
section with  Forest  Service  Road  244  (the  road  to 
Mount  Rushmore).  Turn  east  and  go  4.5  miles  to  the 
Elkhorn  Picnic  Ground.  From  this  picnic  ground, 
moderate  1-mile  trails  lead  to  the  RNA  (fig.  1). 


Figure  1 .  —  Map  of  Upper  Pine  Creek  RNA  and  vicinity. 


Overview 

This  482-hectare  RNA  is  entirely  contained  within 
the  Black  Elk  Wilderness  Area,  which  is  itself  entirely 
within  the  Norbeck  National  Wildlife  Preserve.  One 
of  the  few  roadless  and  ungrazed  areas  left  in  the 
Black  Hills,  the  RNA  is  representative  of  the  rugged 
high  country  on  the  flanks  of  the  Harney  Range 
(fig.  2)  and  is  dominated  by  stands  of  ponderosa  pine 
(Pinus  ponderosa),  mixed  with  white  spruce  (Picea 
glanca)  and  aspen  (Populus  tremuloides) . 

Climate 

The  average  annual  precipitation  at  the  nearest 
weather  station  is  529  millimeters,  and  average  an- 
nual temperature  is  8°C  (fig.  3).  Average  annual 
monthly  maximum  temperature  is  14°C,  and  the  av- 
erage annual  monthly  minimum  temperature  is  2  °C. 
The  average  frost-free  period  is  from  June  15  to  Au- 
gust 15. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  elevation  of  this  area,  which  sits  on  the  north 
slope  of  Harney  Peak  at  the  top  of  the  Pine  Creek 
and  Grizzly  Bear  Creek  drainages,  varies  from  1829- 
2105  meters  above  sea  level.  The  topography  is  ex- 
tremely rough,  and  there  are  many  huge  granitic 
boulders,  spires,  and  outcrops.  The  soil  consists  of 
Burska  and  Mocmont  soils  weathered  from  granite 
rock.  The  Mocmont  soils  are  deep  and  well  drained. 

Flora 

In  a  1971  site  visit,  the  dominant  cover  types  were 
listed  as:  ponderosa  pine,  364  hectares;  and  white 
spruce,  41  hectares.  Aspen  are  scattered  along  the 
water  courses.  Dominant  grasses  are  Stipa,  Elymus, 
and  Agropyron,  and  there  are  also  several  species  of 
Carex.  Prominent  forbs  are  Potentilla,  Solidago,  and 
Monarda.  Tall  shrubs  (Salix,  Comus,  and  Corylus)  are 
present  along  the  stream  channels  of  both  Grizzly 
Bear  and  Pine  Creeks;  such  streamside  vegetation  is 
rare  along  many  Black  Hills  streams,  especially  where 
they  are  grazed  by  livestock.  Low  shrubs  (Sym- 


52 


Figure  2.  —  Upper  Pine  Creek  RNA  (photograph  by  John  Lundquist). 


phoricarpos  and  Spiraea)  occur  in  the  meadows.  On 
drier  upland  sites,  the  understory  is  not  as  lush  or  as 
abundant.  Where  an  understory  does  occur,  kinni- 
kinnick  (Arctostaphylos  uvaursi),  timber  oatgrass  (Dan- 
thonia  intermedia),  and  golden  pea  (Thermopsis  rhom- 
bifolia)  are  the  most  common  species,  but  they  are 
sporadically  distributed. 

Fauna 

The  RNA  lies  entirely  within  the  Norbeck  National 
Wildlife  Preserve.  Big  game  species  in  the  area  in- 
clude elk  (Cervus  elaphus),  white-tailed  deer  (Odo- 
coileus  virginianus),  and  mountain  goats  (Oreamnos 
americanus). 

Status  and  Administration 

Upper  Pine  Creek  RNA  is  managed  under  special 
management  prescription  10A  of  the  Black  Hills 
National  Forest  Plan.  The  Harney  Ranger  District 


120 


E 

E 

100 

c 

o 

CO 

4—" 

80 

Q. 

O 

60 

CL 

>. 

40 

c 

o 

c 

20 

03 

CD 

0 

Upper  Pine  Creek 


-i  60 

o 

-  50 

:ure  (° 

-  40 

mperal 

-  30 

hly  Te 

-  20 

Mont 

-  10 

Mean 

-  0 

< 

Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 

Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  mean  monthly  temperature  and 
precipitation  (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest 
to  Upper  Pine  Creek  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Mount 
Rushmore,  SD,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  1575 
meters.  The  elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  1830-2105  meters, 
so  actual  climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  similar  to  that  shown. 
Both  precipitation  and  temperature  were  averaged  over  30  years. 


53 


(Hill  City,  SD  57745,  605-574-2543)  is  responsible  for 
administration  and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research 

Upper  Pine  Creek  RNA  is  one  of  the  few  examples 
of  undisturbed  ponderosa  pine  forest  in  the  Black 


Hills.  As  such,  it  represents  a  valuable  control  site 
for  assessing  the  impacts  of  management.  Black  Hills 
RNA  can  also  provide  information  about  landscape 
patterns  in  unmanaged  ponderosa  pine  forests. 

Publications 

Lundquist,  J.  E.  1991.  Canopy  gap  profiles — a  way 
to  measure  management  impacts  on  forest  ecosys- 
tems. In:  Proceedings  of  the  6th  International  Con- 
gress of  Plant  Pathology.  1993,  July  28- August  6, 
Montreal,  Canada:  p  124. 

Lundquist,  J.  E.  [In  Press]  Pest  interactions  and 
canopy  gaps  in  ponderosa  pine  stands.  In:  Proceed- 
ings of  the  American  Phytopathological  Society  An- 
nual Meeting.  1993,  November  6-10,  Nashville,  TN. 


54 


WILLIAMS  CREEK  RESEARCH  NATURAL  AREA 


Location 

Williams  Creek  RNA  is  northeast  of  Williams  Creek 
Reservoir,  about  20  air  miles  northwest  of  Pagosa 
Springs,  Colorado,  in  Hinsdale  County.  It  is  situated 
within  the  Pagosa  Ranger  District,  San  Juan  National 
Forest.  The  RNA  occupies  portions  of  sections  16  and 
21,  Township  38  North,  Range  3  West,  New  Mexico 
Prime  Meridian.  The  approximate  center  of  the  RNA 
is  37  31 '14"  North  latitude,  107 11 '43"  West  longitude. 

Access  to  the  RNA  is  via  U.S.  Highway  160  from 
Pagosa  Springs  to  Forest  Service  Road  631  (the  Piedra 
Road),  just  west  of  Pagosa  Springs;  then  north  on 
Forest  Service  Road  631  about  17  miles  to  Forest  Ser- 
vice Road  636,  which  is  about  1.5  miles  north  of  the 
Piedra  Picnic  Ground  (fig.  1).  From  the  picnic  ground, 
travel  north  on  Forest  Service  Road  636  about  3.5 
miles  to  Forest  Service  Road  638,  a  primitive  road; 
then  north  and  west  on  Forest  Service  Road  638  for 
about  4  miles  to  its  dead-end  at  the  eastern  bound- 
ary of  the  RNA.  There  are  no  facilities  or  buildings 
at  the  end  of  Forest  Service  Road  638,  and  no  roads 
or  trails  enter  the  RNA.  To  reach  the  RNA  from  For- 
est Service  Road  640  and  the  Williams  Creek  reser- 


Figure  1.  —  Location  of  Williams  Creek  RNA. 


Figure  2.  —  Pinus  strobiformis  and  elderberry  in  white  fir  forest  for 
Williams  Creek  RNA  (photograph  by  Barry  C.  Johnston). 

voir  area,  hikers  must  ford  Williams  Creek  and  cross 
a  half  mile  of  rough  brushland. 

Overview 

The  Williams  Creek  RNA  is  characterized  by  large 
stands  of  white  fir  (Abies  concolor),  which  comprise 
almost  all  of  its  221  hectares.  The  forest  within  the 
RNA  has  apparently  remained  unmodified  since 
settlement.  The  area  occupies  a  glaciated  bench  be- 
tween the  valley  of  Williams  Creek  and  the  steep  cliffs 
and  outcrops  that  form  the  western  boundary  of  the 
Weminuche  Wilderness  Area  (fig.  2). 


55 


Climate 

The  area's  climate  is  characterized  by  short,  cool 
summers  and  long  winters  (fig.  3).  June  is  the  driest 
month;  July  and  August  are  cool  with  frequent  rain 
showers.  The  winter  months  are  generally  cold  with 
heavy  snow;  the  summer  frost-free  period  ranges 
from  40-100  days.  Average  annual  precipitation  at 
Vallecito  Dam,  22  miles  southwest  of  Williams  Creek 
Reservoir  at  an  elevation  of  2330  meters,  is  662  milli- 
meters; average  annual  temperature  is  6°C. 

Physiography,  Geology,  and  Soils 

The  RNA  is  located  on  the  eastern  end  of  a  broad, 
rolling,  shallowly  dissected  bench  between  Williams 
Creek  Reservoir  and  steep  cliffs  that  form  the  lower 
slopes  of  an  unnamed  mountain,  peak  11,462.  The 
southeastern  boundary  of  the  RNA  is  near  the  hy- 
drographic  divide  between  the  Middle  Fork  of  the 
Rio  Piedra  and  Williams  Creek.  Drainage  is  to  the 
west  via  two  permanent  unnamed  creeks  that  head 
near  the  eastern  boundary  of  the  RNA. 

Elevation  within  the  RNA  ranges  from  2545  meters 
at  the  northwest  corner  to  2940  meters  on  the  ridges 
at  the  middle  of  the  eastern  boundary.  Slopes  in  gen- 
eral range  from  15-20%,  but  the  range  of  slopes  is 
wide.  Within  the  RNA,  the  terrain  is  moderately  dis- 
sected. The  RNA's  eastern  edge  is  characterized  by 


100 


E 

e. 

80 

c 

o 

60 

'5. 

o 

CD 

CL 

>> 

40 

-C 

-s— ' 

c 

o 

20 

c 

cc 

CD 

0 

Williams  Creek 


i     i  i  i_ 


i     i     i     i     '  i_ 


50 


40 


O 

o 
CD 

30  | 
E 

CD 
I- 

20  >. 


10 


Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec 


-10 


Figure  3.  —  Long-term  average  of  monthly  temperature  and  pre- 
cipitation (from  NOAA  records)  for  the  weather  station  closest  to 
Williams  Creek  RNA.  Data  were  taken  from  the  Vallecito  Dam, 
CO,  weather  station,  which  is  at  an  elevation  of  2330  meters.  The 
elevation  of  the  RNA  ranges  from  2545-2940  meters,  so  actual 
climate  at  the  RNA  will  likely  be  quite  different  than  that  shown. 
Precipitation  and  temperature  were  averaged  over  44  years. 


steeper,  rockier  slopes,  as  well  as  more  open  forests 
at  the  base  of  the  cliffs. 

The  dissected  bench  that  dominates  the  RNA  is  a 
glacial  surface,  and  the  western  two-thirds  of  the  area 
is  a  weathered  moraine.  This  area  is  classified  as  gla- 
cial deposits  of  Quaternary  age.  The  remainder  of 
the  RNA  is  classified  as  Conejos  quartz  latite,  a  mod- 
erately soft  extensive  lava  flow  of  tuff  and  breccia 
beds  of  Miocene  age.  Soils  are  classified  as  Woodrock 
silt  loam.  Woodrock  soils  have  a  grayish-brown  silt- 
loam  A  horizon  averaging  254  millimeters  thick,  with 
dark  brown  clay  loam  to  gravelly  clay  loam  subsoils. 

Flora 

The  entire  RNA  is  forested,  with  the  exception  of 
a  few  acres  of  rock  slides  along  the  eastern  bound- 
ary and  two  small  boggy  willow  patches  along  the 
north  creek.  There  are  three  major  forested  plant  as- 
sociations within  the  RNA — two  within  the  white  fir 
series,  and  one  in  the  Engelmann  spruce  (Picea 
engelmannii)  series: 

1)  White  fir-Douglas-fir  (Pseudotsuga  menziesii)/ 
forest  fleabane  (Erigeron  eximius)  plant  associa- 
tion: 197  ha.  This  open,  diverse  white  fir  forest 
occurs  on  rolling  terrain  throughout  the  bench 
where  the  RNA  is  located.  The  canopies  within 
the  RNA  are  very  mixed  and  multilayered.  This 
plant  association  has  many  species  of  forbs, 
shrubs,  and  graminoids  in  the  understory.  Con- 
spicuous species  that  are  always  present  include 
bromes  (Bromus  ciliatus  and  B.  porteri),  sedges 
(Carex  geyeri  and  C.foenea),  Fendler  meadowrue 
(Thalictrumfendleri),  and  violets  ( Viola  canadensis 
and  V.  adunca).  Aspen  (Populus  tremuloides)  is 
often  dominant  in  serai  stands;  ponderosa  pine 
(Pinus  ponderosa)  is  usually  absent.  Almost  all 
of  this  area  is  in  late  serai  to  climax  stages. 

2)  White  fir-Douglas-fir  /Rocky  Mountain  maple 
(Acer  glabrum)  plant  association:  9  ha.  This  plant 
association  has  a  similar  overstory  to  white  fir- 
Douglas-fir /forest  fleabane,  but  with  a  some- 
what more  closed  canopy.  Shrubs  are  more  con- 
spicuous, especially  Rocky  Mountain  maple, 
pachistima  (Pachistima  myrsinites),  thimbleberry 
(Rubus  parviflorus),  Oregon  grape  (Berberis 
repens),  and  mountain  snowberry  (Symphoricar- 
pos  oreophilus).  This  type  occurs  more  often  on 
northerly  slopes  and  on  steeper  slopes  with  shal- 
lower, better-drained  soils.  However,  the  tran- 


56 


sitions  to  white  fir-Douglas-fir /forest  fleabane 
can  be  gradual. 
3)  Engelmann  spruce-grouse  whortleberry  (Vacci- 
nium  scoparium)  plant  association:  11  ha.  This 
closed-canopy  forest  occurs  in  one  medium- 
sized  stand  on  a  steep  north  slope  on  the  upper, 
eastern  side  of  the  RNA.  The  stand  is  unusual 
because  it  occurs  at  a  low  elevation  for  its  type 
and  lacks  subalpine  fir  (Abies  lasiocarpa),  except 
for  a  few  individuals. 

In  addition  to  the  plant  associations  listed  above, 
there  are  0.5  ha  of  Thurber  fescue  (Festuca  thurberi)- 
Arizona  fescue  (Festuca  arizonica),  1  ha  of  willow  ri- 
parian area,  and  2  ha  of  rocks,  cliffs,  and  talus.  Ex- 
tensive plant  lists  for  the  RNA  are  included  in  the 
establishment  record,  which  is  on  file  at  the  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station  in 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado. 

Fauna 

Elk  (Cervus  elaphus)  and  mule  deer  (Odocoileus 
hemionus)  use  the  area  as  summer  range;  almost  the 
entire  RNA  is  in  dense  forest,  mainly  used  for  hid- 
ing cover.  There  are  no  threatened,  endangered,  or 
candidate  animals  known  from  the  RNA  or  sur- 
rounding areas. 

Mammals  include  pika  (Ochotona  princeps),  snow- 
shoe  hare  (Lepus  americanus),  yellow-footed  marmot 
(Marmotaflaviventris),  golden-mantled  ground  squirrel 
(Spermophilus  lateralis),  Colorado  chipmunk  (Tamias 
quadrivittatus),  red  squirrel  (Tamiasciurus  hudsonicus), 
deer  mouse  (Peromyscus  maniculatus),  meadow  vole 
(Microtus  pennsylvanicus),  porcupine  (Erethizon  dorsa- 
tum),  red  fox  (Vulpes  vulpes),  coyote  (Canis  latrans),  black 


bear  (Ursus  americanus),  elk  (Cervus  elaphus),  and  mule 
deer  (Odocoileus  hemionus). 

Birds  found  within  the  RNA  include  northern  gos- 
hawk (Accipiter  gentilis),  Cooper's  hawk  (Accipiter 
cooperii),  golden  eagle  (Aquila  chtysaetos),  great  horned 
owl  (Bubo  virginianus),  blue  grouse  (Dendragapus 
obscurus),  hairy  woodpecker  (Picoides  villosus),  and 
Clark's  nutcracker  (Nucifraga  columbiana).  Amphibians 
found  within  the  RNA  include  boreal  chorus  frog 
(Pseudacris  triseriata  maculata)  and  northern  leopard 
frog  (Rana  pipiens). 

Status  and  Administration 

Williams  Creek  was  designated  a  Research  Natu- 
ral Area  in  June  1987.  It  is  managed  under  special 
management  prescription  10A  of  the  San  Juan  Na- 
tional Forest  Plan.  The  Pagosa  Ranger  District 
(Pagosa  Springs,  CO  81147,  303-264-2268)  is  respon- 
sible for  administration  and  protection  of  the  RNA. 

For  information  on  conducting  research  on  the 
RNA,  contact: 

Research  Natural  Area  Coordinator 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
240  West  Prospect  Road 
Fort  Collins,  CO  80526-2098 
(303)  498-1100 

Research  and  Publications 

Williams  Creek  is  suitable  for  research  into  the 
plants  and  animals  of  a  white  fir  forest  at  late  serai 
or  near-climax  stages.  We  found  no  published  stud- 
ies on  the  RNA. 


57 


*U.S.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE :  1  9  9  4 -5  7  6- 7  4  4  /  05  1  4  4 


USDA  policy  prohibits  discrimination  because  of  race,  color,  national  origin,  sex, 
age,  religion,  or  handicapping  condition.  Any  person  who  believes  he  or  she  has 
been  discriminated  against  in  any  USDA-related  activity  should  immediately  con- 
tact the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  DC  20250. 


1022443130 


Rocky 
Mountains 


Southwest 


Great 
Plains 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Forest  Service 

Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and 
Range  Experiment  Station 


The  Rocky  Mountain  Station  is  one  of  eight 
regional  experiment  stations,  plus  the  Forest 
Products  Laboratory  and  the  Washington  Office 
Staff,  that  make  up  the  Forest  Service  research 
organization. 

RESEARCH  FOCUS 

Research  programs  at  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Station  are  coordinated  with  area  universities  and 
with  other  institutions.  Many  studies  are 
conducted  on  a  cooperative  basis  to  accelerate 
solutions  to  problems  involving  range,  water, 
wildlife  and  fish  habitat,  human  and  community 
development,  timber,  recreation,  protection,  and 
multiresource  evaluation. 

RESEARCH  LOCATIONS 

Research  Work  Units  of  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Station  are  operated  in  cooperation  with 
universities  in  the  following  cities: 


Albuquerque,  New  Mexico 
Flagstaff,  Arizona 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado* 
Laramie,  Wyoming 
Lincoln,  Nebraska 
Rapid  City,  South  Dakota 


'Station  Headquarters:  240  W.  Prospect  Rd.,  Fort  Collins,  CO  80526 


