Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


United  states 
(i^iM  Department  of 


^1 


Agriculture 


Forest  Service 


Rocky  Mountain 
Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station 


Fort  Collins, 
CO  80526 


General  Technical 
Report  RM  -  GTR-283 


Southwestern  Rare  and 
Endangered  Plants: 

Proceedings  of  the  Second  Conference 


September  11-'|4, 1995 
Flagstaff,  Arizona 


\  Received  by 

Indexing  Branch 


Maschinski,  Joyce;  Hammond,  H.  David,  and  Holter,  Louella,  tech.  eds.  1996.  Southwestern  rare 
and  endangered  plants:  Proceedings  of  the  Second  Conference;  1995  September  11-14;  Flagstaff, 
AZ.  Gen.  Tech.  Rep.  RM-GTR-283.  Fort  Collins,  Co:  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Forest 
Service,  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station.  328  pp. 


Abstract 

These  contributed  papers  review  the  current  status  of  plant  conservation  in  the 
southwestern  U.S.  in  the  current  legislative  arena,  citing  specific  cases  from  surveys, 
and  genetic,  demographic,  and  ecological  studies.  In  addition,  broad  issues  affecting  the 
paradigms  of  conservation  of  rare  plant  species  in  an  ecosystem  management  context 
are  reviewed. 


Key  Words:  plant  conservation,  genetics,  demography,  reproductive  biology, 
monitoring,  endangered  species 


In  order  to  deliver  symposium  proceedings  as  quickly  as  possible,  most  manuscripts 
did  not  receive  conventional  statistical,  editorial,  or  peer  review.  Views  expressed  m 
each  paper  are  those  of  the  author  and  not  necessarily  those  of  the  sponsormg  organi- 
zation or  the  USDA  Forest  Service. 


Cover  illustration  of  Clematis  hirsutissima  var.  arizonica  by  Anne  E.  Grodor. 


USDA  Forest  Service 

General  Technical  Report  RM  -GTR-283 


Southwestern  Rare  and  Endangered  Plants: 
Proceedings  of  the  Second  Conference 

September  11-14, 1995 
Flagstaff,  Arizona 


Technical  Coordinators: 

Joyce  Maschinski 

The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff 

Flagstaff,  Arizona 

H.  David  Hammond 
Northern  Arizona  University 
Flagstaff,  Arizona 

LoueUa  Flolter 

Bilby  Research  Center,  NAU 

Flagstaff,  Arizona 

Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range 

Experiment  Station 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Fort  CoUins,  Colorado 


Contents 


Foreword   vi 

About  the  Editors   vi 

I.  Public  Involvement  in  Plant  Conservation 

Encouraging  Conservation  of  Endangered  Plants  on  Private  Lands:  A  Case  Study 
of  Frankenia  johnstonii,  an  Endangered  South  Texas  Subshrub 

Genu  K.  Janssen  and  Paula  S.  Williamson   1 

Managing  and  Monitoring  Rare  and  Endangered  Plants  on  Highway 
Rights-of-way  in  Texas 

Jackie  M  Poole  and  Genu  K.  Janssen   8 

II.  Demography 

Demography  of  Ipomopsis  aggregata  ssp.  weberi,  a  Rare  Plant  of  Northern  Colorado 

Dieter  Wilkm   13 

Demography  and  Monitoring  of  the  Autumn  Buttercup,  Ranunculus 
aestivalis  (Benson)  Van  Buren  &  Harper,  South-Central  Utah 

John  R.  Spence   19 

Results  of  an  Eleven- Year  Monitoring  Study  of  the  Endangered 
Pediocactus  peeblesianus  (Croizat)  L.D.  Benson  var.  peeblesianus 

Barbara  Goodrich  Phillips  and  Arthur  M  Phillips,  III   27 

Population  Viability  Analysis  of  Pediocactus  paradinei 

Robert  J.  Prye   39 

Demographic  Monitoring  of  Pediocactus  peeblesianus  vai.fickienseniae 
on  the  Arizona  Strip 

Lee  E.  Hughes    47 

III.  Genetics 

Morphological  Variation  Within  and  Among  Cimicifuga  arizonica  Populations 

Laura  E.  DeWald  and  Barbara  G.  Phillips   53 

Analysis  of  Rumex  orthoneurus,  a  Rare  Species  in  Arizona,  Using  RAPD 
Markers  and  Polymorphisms  in  rbcL 

Robert  L.  Bellsey  and  David  Mount   60 

A  Genetic  Evaluation  of  Three  Potential  Races  of  the  Rare  Kachina  Daisy 

Loreen  Allphin,  Michael  D.  Windham,  and  Kimball  T.  Harper   68 

Genetic  Variation  Among  Populations  of  Arctomecon  (Papaveraceae) 

Renee  Van  Buren  and  Kimball  T.  Harper   77 

Use  of  Random  Amplified  Polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD)  Markers 
for  Genetic  Analysis  of  Lilium  parryi,  a  Rare  Arizona  Plant 

Elizabeth  Friar,  Mima  Falk,  and  David  W.  Mount   86 

iii 


IV.  Issues  Concerning  Rarity  and  Preserving  Biodiversity 


Molecular  and  Adaptive  Variation:  A  Perspective  for  Endangered  Plants 

Phillip  W.  Hedrick  and  Outi  Savolainen   92 

Current  Hybrid  Policy  and  the  Importance  of  Plants  in  Conservation 

Thomas  G.  Whitham  and  Joyce  Maschinski   103 

Is  Hymenoxys  helioides  (Rydb.)  Ckll.  a  Species  or  a  Hybrid? 
Morphological  and  Molecular  Evidence 

J.L.  Anderson,  J.M.  Porter,  and  M.K.  Debacon   113 

Genetics  and  Conservation  Biology:  Assessing  Historical  Trends  in 
the  Demography  of  Populations 

Brook  G.  Milligan  and  Allan  E.  Strand   125 

Genetics  and  Conservation  Biology:  Assessing  Historical  Gene  Flow  in 
Aquilegia  Populations  of  the  Southwest 

Allan  E.  Strand  and  Brook  G.  Milligan   138 

V.  Reproductive  and  Pollination  Biology 

Germination  Requirements  and  Genetic  Diversity  in  Croton 
alabamensis  var.  texensis 

Tracy  Halward,  Timothy  Lowrey,  Keith  Schulz,  and  Robert  Shaw   146 

Pollinator  Lost?  Reproduction  by  the  Enigmatic  Jones'  Cycladenia 
Cycladenia  humilis  var.  jonesii  (Apocynaceae) 

Sedonia  D.  Sipes  and  Vincent  J.  Tepedino   158 

Seed  Germination  and  Pollination  Requirements  of  Holy  Ghost  Ipomopsis 
{Ipomopsis  sancti-spiritus) 

Joyce  Maschinski   167 

Self-Incompatibility  in  Abronia  macrocarpa  (Nyctaginaceae),  an  Endangered 
Texas  Endemic:  Comparison  of  Self-  and  Outcross  Pollen  Tube  Growth 

Paula  S.  Williamson,  Selvi  K.  Bazeer,  and  Gena  K.  Janssen   171 

VI.  Autecology 

Reintroduction  of  Texas  Wildrice  (Zizania  texana)  in  Spring  Lake: 
Some  Important  Environmental  and  Biotic  Considerations 

Paula  J.  Power   179 

Elk  and  Cattle  Herbivory  on  Arizona  Willow  {Salix  arizonica ) 

Scott  Strohmeyer  and  Joyce  Maschinski   187 

The  Effects  of  Prescribed  Burning  in  the  Rare  Plant  Chrysothamnus  molestus 

Neil  S.  Cobb,  David  F.  Gori,  and  Thomas  G.  Whitham   193 

An  Ecophysiological  Analysis  of  Shade  Effects  on  Clematis  hirsutissima 
var.  arizonica 

Thomas  E.  Kolb  and  Joyce  Maschinski   203 


iv 


VII.  Strategies  for  Protection  in  an  Ecosystem  Context 


Conservation  Assessment  and  Strategy  for  Cimicifuga  arizonica  Watson 
(Arizona  Bugbane)  on  the  Coconino  and  Kaibab  National  Forests 

Barbara  Goodrich  Phillips,  ClarkFranz,  Ronald  Popowski  and  Peter  Warren   213 

Consequences  of  Land  Management  Practices  on  Willows  and  Higher  Trophic  Levels 

Peter  W.  Price,  Timothy  G.  Carr,  and  Andy  M  Ormord   219 

Interagency  Conservation  Biology  Program  for  Arizona  Willow  {Salix  arizonica  Dom) 

Teresa  Prendusi,  Duane  Atwood,  Bruce  Palmer  and  Ron  Rodriguez   224 

The  Verde  Valley  Sonoran  Desertscrub:  An  Ecosystem  at  Risk 
Barbara  Goodrich  Phillips,  David  Lutz,  Ronald  Popowski, 

and  Harley  SJmzv   231 

Recommendations  for  the  Preservation  of  Rare  Plants  and  Unique 
Habitats  Within  the  Chino  Valley  Ranger  District,  Central  Arizona 

Marc  A  Baker   237 

VIII.  Surveys  and  Monitoring 

Monitoring  of  Penstemon  clutei  A.  Nels  on  Tornado  Salvage 

Debra  L.  Crisp   243 

Monitoring  a  Population  of  Grama  Grass  Cactus 

Dwain  W.  Vincent  and  Anthony  F.  Lutonsky   247 

Inventory  and  Monitoring  of  Giant  Four-wing  Saltbush, 
Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area,  Juab  County,  Utah 

Alyce  M  Hreha   251 

Distribution  and  Biology  of  Trifolium  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  (Greene) 

Juanita  A.R.  Ladyman   262 

Endemic  Calciphiles  of  the  Middle  Arkansas  Valley,  Colorado 

S.  Kelso,  K.  Heckmann,].  Lawton,  and  G.  Maentz   270 

Monitoring  Survival,  Growth,  and  Reproduction  of  Aletes  humilis 

Terri  T.  Schulzand  Alan  T.  Carpenter   281 

Narrow  Endemism  in  the  New  Mexico  Flora 

Robert  C.  Sivinski  and  Paul  J.  Knight   286 

Preliminary  Results  of  Toumeya  papyracanthus  Surveys  on  the  Lakeside 
Ranger  District,  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests,  Arizona 

Earl  H.  Klein   297 

Surveys  and  Habitat  Analyses  of  Five  Rare  Plant  Species  in 
the  Organ  Mountains  of  New  Mexico 

Ellen  A.  DeBndn   307 

Monitoring  and  Population  Biology  of  Talinum  validulum  on 
the  Kaibab  National  Forest,  Arizona 

Arthur  M  Phillips,  III  and  Diedre  Weage   316 

List  of  Contributors   327 


v 


Foreword 


This  conference  was  a  continuation  of  the  brainchild  of  Robert  Sivinski  and  Karen  Lightfoot,  who 
organized  the  first  conference  and  edited  the  first  proceedings.  Because  the  first  conference  and  proceed- 
ings successfully  brought  people  working  in  the  field-  of  plant  conservation  together,  enabled  the  ex- 
change of  ideas,  and  gave  practical  assistance  to  land  managers,  it  was  deemed  important  to  have  a 
second  conference.  Sixty-three  oral  and  poster  presentations  were  made  at  the  conference  held  September 
11-14,  1995,  at  du  Bois  Conference  Center  on  the  campus  of  Northern  Arizona  University. 

Contributions  to  this  proceedings  were  made  by  researchers  working  in  academia,  federal  and  state 
agencies.  The  Nature  Conservancy,  private  consulting  firms,  arboreta  and  botanical  gardens.  The  editors 
made  an  effort  to  standardize  the  format  of  the  papers.  We  wish  to  thank  all  authors. 

This  Conference  and  Proceedings  were  made  possible  through  the  generosity  of  the  following 
sponsors:  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  Frances  B.  McAllister,  Navajo  Natural  Heritage  Program,  SWCA, 
Inc.,  Drs.  Henry  Hooper,  William  Gaud,  and  David  Prior  of  Northern  Arizona  University,  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  U.S.  Forest  Service,  Coconino  National  Forest,  Southwest  Region,  Intermountain  Region, 
Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experimental  Station,  Bureau  of  Land  Management-Arizona,  Bureau 
of  Land  Management-Utah,  and  Bureau  of  Land  Management-National  Office.  Special  thanks  to  those 
who  helped  to  make  this  conference  possible:  The  staff  of  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff — Laura  Wellborn, 
Steve  Yoder,  Beverly  Stanton,  Scott  Strohmeyer,  Jan  Busco,  Meg  Heim,  Kenric  Kesler,  Tara  Bymoen,  Jeff 
Hines;  volunteers  Judy  Kiriazis,  Emma  Jean  Bader,  Pat  Pedersen,  and  Matt  Ryan;  moderators  Elizabeth 
Taylor,  Edward  Smith,  Tad  Thiemer,  Robert  Bellsey,  Catherine  Gehring,  Kenric  Kesler,  Juanita  A.R. 
Ladyman,  Charlie  McDonald,  Thomas  E.  Kolb,  John  Spence,  Jon  Souder,  and  Ana  Goodman;  projection- 
ists and  assistants  from  the  School  of  Forestry.  From  the  Bilby  Research  Center  at  Northern  Arizona 
University,  Louella  Holter  deserves  our  heartfelt  thanks  for  helping  to  edit  and  format  the  proceedings, 
and  Ron  Redsteer  and  Dan  Boone  for  orchestrating  the  camera-ready  copy  of  the  proceedings.  Lane 
Eskew  of  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experimental  Station  provided  technical  assistance  and 
encouragement  for  the  publication. 

This  proceedings  is  dedicated  to  Frances  B.  McAllister,  pioneer,  community  advocate,  and  heroine, 
who  has  dedicated  her  life  to  education,  conservation,  and  the  display  of  native  plants  of  the  Colorado 
Plateau. 

About  the  Editors 

Joyce  Maschinski  is  Curator  of  Plants  at  The  Arboretum  of  Flagstaff  and  adjunct  professor  in  the 
Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University.  She  is  actively  involved  in  research  on 
rare  plant  species  of  the  Colorado  Plateau  and  has  presented  her  work  in  the  first  Proceedings  of  the 
Southwestern  Rare  and  Endangered  Plant  Conference,  The  American  Naturalist,  Biological  Conservation  and 
Conservation  Biology.  She  organized  the  Second  Southwestern  Rare  and  Endangered  Plant  Conference. 

H.  David  Hammond  taught  at  Howard  University  and  at  The  State  University  College  at  Brockport, 
New  York,  offering  a  wide  variety  of  botany,  plant  biochemistry,  and  evolution  courses.  He  published 
several  papers  with  his  masters  degree  students  on  the  effect  of  growth  regulators  on  plant  morpho- 
genesis and  established  herbaria  at  both  institutions.  He  also  spent  eight  years  at  the  New  York  Botanical 
Garden  as  an  editor  in  the  Scientific  Publications  Department,  editing  such  series  as  Plora  Neotropica, 
Memoirs  of  the  New  York  Botanical  Garden,  Advances  in  Economic  Botany,  and  others,  and  was  co-editor  with 
David  Cambell  of  Floristic  Inventory  of  Tropical  Countries.  Since  retiring,  he  has  volunteered  at  the  Deaver 
Herbarium  (ASC)  of  Northern  Arizona  University  in  Flagstaff. 

Louella  Holter  has  many  years  of  experience  as  an  editor  at  the  Bilby  Research  Center,  a  multi- 
disciplinary  facility  at  Northern  Arizona  University. 


vi 


Encouraging  Conservation  of  Endangered  Plants  on  Private  Lands: 
A  Case  Study  of  Johnston's  Frankenia  {Frankenia  johnstonii), 
an  Endangered  South  Texas  Subshrub 

GENA  K.  jANSSENl  and  PAULA  S.  WILLIAMSON  2 

■^Endangered  Species  Program,  Texas  Parks  &  Wildlife  Department,  3000  IH  35  South,  Austin  78704 
^Southwest  Texas  State  University,  Department  of  Biology,  San  Marcos  78666 

Abstract:  A  study  was  initiated  in  1993  to  investigate  the  status  and  biology  of  Frankaiia 
johnstonii,  which  had  been  reported  by  local  South  Texas  ranchers  and  Natural  Resources 
Conservation  Service  officials  to  be  much  more  abundant  than  the  original  five  populations 
known  at  the  time  of  listing.  In  a  state  that  is  more  than  90  percent  privately  owned,  coopera- 
tion with  private  landowners  and  access  to  private  property  is  essential  for  gathering  status 
information  and  biological  data  on  rare  plants.  Developing  landowner  confidence  and  work- 
ing within  local  rural  communities  to  gain  public  support  were  two  of  the  primary  goals  of 
this  project.  This  is  not  an  easy  task;  it  takes  an  abundance  of  time,  listening,  compassion, 
patience,  and  honesty.  Through  this  initiative,  over  25  new  populations  were  located  on  pri- 
vate lands  and  landowners  became  interested  in  the  conservation  of  this  species.  Local  land- 
owners came  together  and  agreed  to  preserve  this  rare  species  on  their  private  property  and 
discussed  options  such  as  local  conservation  agreements  to  assure  the  preservation  of  F. 
johnstonii  in  South  Texas. 


Introduction 

When  I,  Gena  Janssen,  first  came  to  work  for 
the  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department  in  1992, 
there  were  tales  of  an  endangered  plant,  Johnston's 
frankenia  {Frankenia  johnstojiii),  down  in  South 
Texas  that  was  "everywhere."  From  local  soil 
conservationists  to  the  ranchers  themselves,  many 
residents  were  claiming  that  our  current  data  for 
this  species  was  completely  inaccurate.  Maybe, 
community  members  stated,  the  species  did  not 
need  to  be  listed  as  endangered  at  all. 

The  situation,  at  first,  seemed  an  easy  one  to 
tackle.  Just  share  with  us\^these  localities,  let  us 
assess  the  vigor  of  these  populations,  and  we  can 
then  foUow  through  with  a  reevaluation  of  the 
status  of  the  species.  However,  the  difficulty  arose 
with  the  actual  verification  of  these  localities.  They 
were  all  on  private  land  and  no  one  was  willing  to 
divulge  any  information.  The  landowners  were 
scared  (to  say  the  least).  They  were  fearful  of  the 
"government"  finding  out  that  they  had  endan- 
gered species  on  their  property,  with  all  the  impH- 
cations  they  perceived,  such  as  condemnation  of 
property,  the  government  taking  over  the  land, 
loss  of  money,  no  more  cattle  grazing,  and  many 
other  scenarios.  Herein  lies  the  hurdle.  How  do 
you  gain  the  trust  of  landowners,  or  an  entire  com- 
munity for  that  matter,  to  allow  for  endangered 
species  surveys  and  studies  on  their  private  land? 
In  a  state  that  is  more  than  90  percent  privately 
owned,  cooperation  with  private  landowners  and 


access  to  private  property  is  essential  for  gathering 
status  information  and  biological  data  on  rare 
plants.  Cooperatively,  the  Texas  Parks  and  Wild- 
life Department  and  Southwest  Texas  State  Uni- 
versity submitted  a  proposal  for  funding  under 
Section  6  of  the  Endangered  Species  Act  to  attempt 
to  accomplish  this  very  thing  and  it  was  funded  in 
1993. 

Johnston's  frankenia  {Frankenia  johnstonii) 
Frankeniaceae  is  a  low-growing  perennial  sub- 
shrub  known  from  Starr  and  Zapata  counties  of 
South  Texas  and  from  Nuevo  Leon,  Mexico.  John- 
ston's frankenia  was  listed  as  endangered  by  the 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  (USFWS)  on  August 
7,  1984  (USFWS  1984),  and  was  listed  as  endan- 
gered by  the  state  of  Texas  in  January,  1987  (Poole 
and  Riskind  1987).  At  the  time  of  state  and  federal 
listing,  there  were  only  five  verified  populations: 
four  in  Texas  (two  in  Zapata  County,  two  in  Starr 
County)  and  one  from  Nuevo  Leon,  Mexico.  All 
five  populations  occurred  on  private  property.  No 
other  members  of  the  family  Frankeniaceae  are 
listed  as  threatened  or  endangered,  nor  are  any 
members  of  the  family  considered  federal  candi- 
dates (USFWS  1993). 

Johnston's  frankenia  was  first  collected  by  D.S. 
Correll  in  1966  in  Zapata  County,  Texas.  Correll 
named  and  described  the  species  in  honor  of  M.C. 
Johnston  later  that  same  year  (Correll  1966).  In 
1973,  B.L.  Turner  described  Frankenia  leverichii  as  a 
new  species  from  Mexico  (Turner  1973);  however. 


1 


M.A.  Whalen  (1987)  reduced  F.  leverichii  to  syno- 
nymy under  Fmnkenia  johnstonii . 

This  small  woody  subshrub  grows  in  open  or 
sparsely  vegetated  rocky,  gypseous  hillsides  or 
saline  flats  (USFWS  1988).  The  soils  are  usually 
saline  clays  or  sands.  The  populations  occur  with- 
in the  South  Texas  Brush  Country  natural  region 
of  Texas  (LBJ  School  of  Public  Affairs  1978).  In 
Mexico,  the  one  known  population  of  Johnston's 
frankenia  is  situated  on  the  transition  zone  be- 
tween the  Tamaulipan  Scrub  and  the  Chihuahuan 
Desert  (Whalen  1980),  or  the  matorral  xerofilo  (scrub 
of  xerophytes)  (Rzedowski  1978). 

According  to  the  recovery  plan  for  Johnston's 
frankenia  (USFWS  1988),  possible  threats  to  the 
species  include  specialized  habitat  requirements, 
habitat  modification  and  destruction,  heavy  graz- 
ing, and  blading  and/ or  bulldozing  followed  by 
seeding  to  buffelgrass  {Cenchrus  ciliaris).  Addition- 
ally, the  Recovery  plan  for  Johnston's  frankenia 
(USFWS  1988)  stated  that  low  numbers  of  the 
species  may  be  detrimental  since  there  are  only 
about  1,500  plants  with  no  more  than  a  few 
hundred  plants  in  any  of  the  populations.  Low 
reproductive  potential  was  also  cited  as  a  potential 
threat.  According  to  Turner  (1980),  the  natural 
habitat  seed  set  is  approximately  50  percent  and 
seedUngs  are  rarely  observed.  Moreover,  an  added 
threat  to  the  species  is  the  fact  that  there  are  no 
protected  population  sites  (viz.,  any  sites  occurring 
on  federally  owned  property). 

At  the  time  of  publication  of  the  Johnston's 
frankenia  recovery  plan,  lack  of  data  made  it  im- 
possible to  quantify  habitat  and  plant  abundance 
with  the  precision  needed  to  establish  quantified 
downlisting  and  delisting  criteria.  According  to 
the  plan,  information  is  needed  on  specific  habitat 
requirements,  population  biology,  and  the  popula- 
tion ecology  of  the  species,  and  continued  searches 
of  potential  habitat  are  needed  to  establish  precise 
limits  of  the  species  distribution.  Only  through 
landowner  outreach  could  we  even  begin  to  try  to 
answer  these  questions. 

The  following  is  not  a  scientific  report — it's  a 
story  about  working  with  people. 

Initial  Landowner  and 
Community  Contact 

Where  do  you  start?  We  decided  that  we 
would  get  right  to  it  and  contact  the  landowners  of 
the  four  known  sites  in  Zapata  and  Starr  counties 
in  Texas.  We  contacted  all  by  telephone  and  met 
with  them  at  the  sites.  Believe  it  or  not,  the  very 
first  landowner  contacted  said,  "You  want  to  come 


onto  the  ranch  and  see  my  endangered  species? 
Great!  When  can  you  come?"  (If  only  they  were  all 
so  easy.)  The  remaining  three  landowners  were 
reluctant,  but  gracious  and  accommodating.  We 
spent  a  lot  of  time  explaining  to  the  landowners 
that  we  simply  needed  access  to  learn  more  about 
the  species  and  that  we  were  also  interested  in 
surveying  for  additional  populations  to  possibly 
downlist  or  delist  the  species  in  the  future. 

Since  so  little  was  known  about  the  life  history 
and  phenology  of  Johnston's  frankenia,  we  de- 
cided to  establish  monitoring  plots  on  two  of  these 
original  four  known  population  sites.  Using  a  belt 
method  for  perennial  plant  species  by  Lesica 
(1987),  we  recorded  various  measures  of  vigor  and 
fecundity  monthly  at  each  site.  Although  we  had 
no  idea  at  the  time,  setting  up  monthly  monitoring 
plots  was  the  best  thing  we  could  have  ever  done. 
Why?  First,  we  learned  about  important  aspects  of 
phenology  and  life  history.  For  example.  The 
Manual  of  the  Vascular  Plants  of  Texas  by  Correll 
and  Johnston  (1979)  states  that  Johnston's  frank- 
enia blooms  from  November  to  February;  how- 
ever, we  found  that  it  blooms  every  month  except 
November  to  February.  But  second,  and  more 
important,  monthly  monitoring  put  us  in  the 
community  every  month.  We  became  familiar 
faces — folks  you  could  count  on  being  there  at 
least  one  week  of  the  month.  We  were  no  longer 
government  strangers;  we  were  regulars. 

When  the  monitoring  was  completed  during 
our  weekly  visits,  we  started  surveying  for  new 
populations  on  private  ranches.  This  proved  to  be 
a  difficult  and  time-consuming  task  since  Texas 
Parks  and  Wildlife  biologists  do  not  enter  onto 
private  land  without  permission  of  the  landowner 
and  eventually  one  week  a  month  became  two 
weeks  a  month.  Much  time  was  spent  doing  the 
actual  legwork  to  confirm  who  owned  which  piece 
of  property  and  how  to  get  in  touch  with  that 
person.  This  meant  spending  hours  at  the  local  tax 
assessor's  office.  Most  landowners  were  local  and 
lived  either  in  town  or  on  the  ranch.  Some  were 
absentees,  however,  and  still  other  lands  were 
held  in  trust  overseen  by  a  group  of  lawyers, 
which  made  getting  permission  for  access  more 
difficult,  but  still  doable.  (If  you  think  asking 
private  landowners  for  permission  for  access  to 
look  for  endangered  species  is  difficult,  try  asking 
a  group  of  lawyers.  I'm  sure  the  day  I  called  be- 
came a  Maalox  day  for  them.) 

Once  we  started  gaining  access  to  ranches,  we 
found  that  another  technique  of  determining  land 
ownership  was  talking  with  the  landowners 


2 


whose  ranches  we  were  on  and  asking  who  their 
neighbors  were.  This  proved  to  be  one  of  the  most 
effective  ways  of  verifying  landowners  and  gain- 
ing access.  Once  you  get  access  to  one  ranch,  then 
you  attempt  to  gain  access  to  the  one  adjacent,  and 
then  the  next  one,  and  the  next  one — sort  of  a  step- 
ping-stone approach.  Even  this  can  be  complicated 
at  times,  however.  For  example,  when  asking  a 
landowner  who  owns  the  ranch  to  the  west  of  him, 
he  replied  something  like  this:  "Well,  it  used  to 
belong  to  Jose  Antonio  Lopez,  but  he  died  and  his 
sons  inherited  the  place.  The  older  son,  Jose  Jr.  did 
not  want  anything  to  do  with  the  ranch,  so  his 
brother,  Juan,  took  it  over.  Jose  Jr.  moved  to  Hous- 
ton and  they  say  he  has  a  very  profitable  trucking 
business  shipping  fresh  seafood  all  over  Texas 
from  the  Gulf.  Juan  married  Maria  De  La  Garza  of 
San  Ygnacio  and  they  had  five  children,  three  boys 
and  two  girls.  Two  of  the  boys  are  in  prison 
today — drugs  or  something.  The  other  son  went  to 
Texas  A  &  M  and  now  he  lives  in  Brenham,  Texas. 
He's  a  jailer.  One  daughter,  Carlotta,  married 
Charlie  Villareal,  the  son  of  the  county  clerk,  and 
they  live  in  town  and  have  two  kids  (although 
they  say  one  is  not  Charlie's,  but  he  swears  it's 
his).  The  other  daughter.  Ana,  went  to  Europe  and 
is  into  fashion  designing  now  in  New  York  or 
some  place  like  that.  Jose  Jr.  died  back  in  1985 — 
heart  attack.  Juan  died  just  last  year,  I  don't  know 
how.  Old  age  I  guess."  "So,"  I  said,  "does  Maria, 
Juan's  wife,  own  the  property?"  "Maria?"  he 
exclaimed,  "No!  Maria  left  Juan  a  long  time  ago 
for  a  hunter,  who  used  to  lease  the  place  for  deer 
hunting.  She  married  the  hunter  and  I  don't  know 
where  they  live.  It  broke  his  heart  you  know,  that 
hunter  was  one  of  his  best  friends."  "So,  who 
owns  the  property  now?"  I  asked.  "Now?  Oh,  I 
don't  know.  I  think  the  bank.  I  think  they  fore- 
closed on  it  last  year  after  Juan  died,  because  the 
family  didn't  pay  some  loan  off."  At  this  point,  I 
did  not  dare  ask  which  bank. 

In  rural  Texas,  one  of  the  best  contacts  and 
allies  that  you  can  make  is  the  local  soil  conserva- 
tionist of  the  Natural  Resources  Conservation 
Service  (NRCS).  In  Texas,  there  is  usually  one 
NRCS  representative  in  each  county  and  they  are 
close  to  the  people  and  the  issues  that  concern 
them.  However,  this  relationship,  like  any  other 
that  you  are  trying  to  establish  when  working  with 
endangered  species  issues,  did  not  come  easily.  I 
never  gave  up,  though.  I  would  visit  the  NRCS 
office  every  month  and  share  what  I  had  learned 
and  whose  ranch  I  had  been  on  and  whether  or 
not  I  had  found  endangered  plants.  I  wanted  him 


to  know  that  he  could  trust  me  and  that  I  would 
share  all  my  information  with  him.  It  took  about  a 
year  before  I  felt  as  though  we  could  actually  call 
ourselves  "friends."  Today,  we  work  closely  con- 
cerning ideas  about  the  conservation  of  endan- 
gered plants  and  the  best  approaches  to  use  with 
landowners. 

Getting  Over  the  Rough  Spots 

It  isn't  always  pretty.  Talking  with  private 
landowners  can  be  downright  scary  sometimes. 
They  are  scared  of  and  outraged  by  many  of  these 
issues  and  by  gosh  they  are  going  to  tell  you  all 
about  it!  As  I  began  to  meet  and  get  to  know  more 
and  more  landowners,  I  began  to  notice  that  most 
of  them  did  basically  the  same  thing  when  they 
met  me:  They  yelled  at  me.  And  then  one  day  it 
finally  hit  me  as  to  why  they  did  that.  Finally,  they 
had  a  person,  a  warm  body,  in  front  of  them  that 
represented  all  these  endangered  species  issues 
that  had  been  scaring  them  for  so  long.  They  just 
needed  to  vent,  so  I  let  them.  They  had  no  one 
there  for  them.  There  was  no  one  there  to  say, 
"No,  that's  not  true,"  or  "Yes,  that  was  a  very 
difficult  situation  for  everyone,"  or  "Well,  only 
part  of  that  is  true,"  etc.,  until  now.  As  time  went 
by,  I  found  that  if  I  let  folks  speak  their  peace  and 
listened  closely  to  their  concerns,  soon  we  would 
begin  talking  like  two  rational  people  (although 
this  moment  in  time  took  longer  for  some  than  for 
others). 

One  of  the  first  ranches  I  gained  access  to  was 
broken  into  two  pieces  with  another  private  ranch 
in  between.  The  landowner  of  the  two-piece  ranch 
gave  me  permission  to  access  the  other  parcel  of 
the  property,  which  was  further  to  the  east.  In 
doing  so,  I  had  to  drive  through  the  ranch  in  the 
middle.  The  owner  of  the  ranch  in  the  middle, 
however,  saw  me  in  my  state  vehicle  driving  on 
"his  road"  and  vowed  that  if  he  ever  saw  me  again 
he  would  shoot  me.  Word  got  back  to  me  in  no 
time.  Threats  from  this  man  were  not  to  be  taken 
lightly.  He  had  a  history  of  escorting  people  off  his 
property  at  gunpoint.  The  road  through  his  place 
is  actually  an  easement  road  that  many  ranchers 
use  to  get  to  their  ranches,  which  are  land-locked, 
but  let's  not  split  hairs.  For  all  practical  purposes  it 
was  his  road  and  he  did  not  want  me  on  it.  Well, 
the  day  soon  came  when  I  wanted  to  use  that  road 
again.  I  was  scared,  I  didn't  know  what  to  do.  I 
gathered  all  my  courage,  took  a  deep  breath,  and  I 
drove  down  that  road  and  straight  to  that  man's 
house.  I  knocked  on  the  door  and  his  wife  an- 
swered. I  introduced  myself  and  asked  if  I  could 


3 


speak  with  her  and  her  husband  for  a  few  minutes. 
She  looked  at  me,  then  she  looked  at  my  truck.  She 
looked  at  me  again  and  looked  at  my  truck  again. 
Then,  with  a  look  in  her  eyes  like  'Girl,  you're 
crazy',  she  said,  "Yes,  come  on  in.  My  husband  is 
taking  a  nap.  Let  me  go  wake  him  up."  "Oh,  no!"  I 
thought,  "First  this  guy  said  he  would  shoot  me 
and  now  I'm  waking  him  up  from  his  nap!  I'm 
going  to  be  killed!"  She  came  from  waking  him 
from  his  nap  and  said,  "It  takes  him  a  while  to 
wake  up.  I'll  make  some  coffee."  It  was  a  July 
afternoon  in  South  Texas  in  a  house  with  no  air 
conditioning  and  I  was  about  to  have  coffee. 
Finally,  he  slowly  shuffled  into  the  kitchen,  a  very 
old  and  frail  man  wheezing  of  emphysema.  The 
rest  of  the  day  is  kind  of  a  blur  to  me  now.  We 
talked  about  the  grandchildren  and  the  EPA  and 
the  IRS  and  how  his  mother's  house  is  underneath 
Falcon  Reservoir  because  of  the  government  and 
the  drought  and  the  heat  and  the  USFWS  and  my 
project  and  the  plant  I  was  looking  for  and  if  the 
cows  don't  eat  your  plant,  then  what's  it  good  for? 
About  five  cups  of  coffee  later,  not  only  had  he  not 
shot  me,  but  he  gave  me  permission  to  use  his 
road  and  access  to  his  ranch,  as  well.  Today,  it  is 
actually  his  son  who  runs  the  ranch  and,  yes,  they 
have  Johnston's  frankenia.  And,  believe  it  or  not,  it 
is  this  man's  son  who  has  become  my  biggest  sup- 
porter in  the  county.  He  told  me  once,  "Any  girl 
who  is  brave  enough  to  go  and  talk  to  my  daddy 
and  get  permission  to  come  on  the  ranch  is  okay 
by  me."  (Just  as  an  aside,  I  have  since  witnessed 
my  first  "gunpoint  escort  victim"  last  summer.  I 
walked  into  the  NRCS  office  and  there  stood  a 
man  from  the  Texas  Water  Development  Board,, 
who  was  beet  red,  sweating  bullets,  wiping  the 
sweat  with  a  handkerchief,  standing  there  sur- 
rounded by  other  people  consoling  him.  When  I 
asked  what  was  wrong,  I  found  that  he  had  just 
been  escorted  at  gunpoint  off  of  this  very  ranch  I 
speak  of.  I  started  to  laugh.  This  poor  man  must 
have  thought  that  I  was  the  cruelest  woman  in  the 
world.  I  simply  smiled  and  said,  "You  should 
have  gone  and  had  coffee  with  him.") 

Community  Outreach  and  Involvement 

In  addition  to  working  with  local  landowners, 
we  also  developed  community  outreach  projects 
and  programs  for  the  local  community.  To  reach 
the  general  public,  we  did  a  series  of  newspaper 
articles  in  the  local  paper  about  the  project.  Addi- 
tionally, we  set  up  a  booth  at  the  county  fair.  The 
booth  included  an  extensive  pictorial  display  of  all 


the  rare  plants  and  animals  that  occur  in  that 
region  of  South  Texas  in  addition  to  information 
brochures  and  live  rare  plants  in  pots  from  the  San 
Antonio  Botanical  Gardens.  We  also  set  up  a 
television  that  ran  constantly  with  South  Texas 
segments  of  the  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  televi- 
sion show  spliced  together.  The  display  was  a 
great  success  and  it  gave  us  the  opportunity  to  talk 
with  people  about  all  the  beautiful  rarities  that 
occurred  right  there  where  they  lived. 

I  love  working  with  children,  but  I  rarely  get 
to  do  that.  So,  when  a  local  Americorps  volunteer 
asked  me  to  help  her  put  together  a  conservation 
summer  program  for  kids,  I  jumped  at  the  chance. 
Together,  we  developed  a  four-day  summer  camp. 
We  each  taught  hour-long  programs  and  we 
alternated  throughout  the  day.  She  taught  topics 
such  as  water  conservation  and  recycling,  while  I 
taught  fisheries  and  wildlife  conservation,  habitat 
conservation,  the  importance  of  plants  and  food 
chains,  and  endangered  species.  Each  lesson  had 
an  activity.  For  example,  after  learning  about 
fisheries  and  wildlife  conservation,  the  children 
got  to  make  fish  prints  using  real  (but  dead)  fish 
and  tempura  paints.  They  loved  it.  But  not  every 
activity  after  a  lesson  was  hands  on.  For  example, 
after  learning  about  the  importance  of  plants,  we 
all  sat  on  the  floor  while  reading  The  Lorax  by  Dr. 
Seuss  (yes,  we  are  allowed  to  read  this  book  in 
Texas).  The  most  rewarding  part  of  the  day  was 
always  teaching  the  children  about  endangered 
species  in  Texas.  They  knew  all  about  pandas, 
rhinos,  and  elephants,  but  they  had  no  idea  of  the 
rare  and  endangered  species  that  occurred  right  in 
their  own  backyard.  While  talking  about  another 
endangered  plant  in  Texas,  ashy  dogweed  {Thy- 
mophylla  tephroleuca),  I  told  the  kids  that  the  only 
place  in  the  world  that  this  plant  grows  is  right 
here  in  the  area  where  they  live.  Upon  hearing 
that,  one  boy,  who  was  about  10  years  old,  stood 
up,  and  very  seriously  said,  "Then  we've  GOT  to 
SAVE  it\"  We  should  all  see  things  the  way  10  year 
olds  do. 

The  Landowner  Meeting 

Two  years  and  approximately  30  newly  lo- 
cated populations  later,  I  had  reached  a  pinnacle 
point.  I  realized  that  no  matter  how  many  popula- 
tions I  located  on  private  land,  trying  to  downlist 
or  delist  this  species  was  still  going  to  be  difficult, 
because  the  USFWS  tends  to  consider  endangered 
plant  populations  on  private  land  in  Texas  as 
"unprotected."  Since  the  Endangered  Species  Act 


4 


protects  listed  plants  on  private  land  only  during 
activities  that  use  federal  funds  or  permits  and 
since  our  state  law  covers  less  than  that,  these 
populations  theoretically  could  meet  their  demise 
at  any  time.  We  needed  something  tangible  that 
showed  that  the  threats  (land  clearing,  root  plow- 
ing, herbicide  broadcasting)  to  these  populations 
would  be  alleviated.  What  about  a  conservation 
agreement? 

I  started  asking  the  landowners  what  they 
thought  about  a  voluntary  conservation  agree- 
ment. Most  landowners  indicated  that  it  sounded 
okay  to  them,  so  I  decided  to  set  up  a  meeting 
with  as  many  of  the  landowners  with  the  species 
on  their  property  as  I  could  get.  I  invited  people  by 
mail  and  announced  it  in  the  local  newspapers.  I 
was  nervous.  At  this  time  landowners  all  over 
Texas  (and  the  nation)  were  lashing  out  against 
these  issues.  At  one  point  I  got  so  scared  that  I  did 
a  guest  editorial  in  the  local  paper  stating  that  this 
meeting  was  not  a  forum  for  anti-government  and 
anti-endangered  species  debates,  but  an  opportu- 
nity for  landowners  to  make  a  difference. 

We  had  our  meeting  in  May  of  1995,  and 
approximately  50  people  attended.  I  am  happy  to 
report  that  the  meeting  was  civil  and  productive. 
We  reviewed  the  legalities  of  the  Endangered 
Species  Act,  the  differences  between  the  plant  and 
animal  laws,  and  the  issues  that  faced  the  commu- 
nity. We  discussed  the  conservation  agreement 
and  how  it  would  be  completely  voluntary,  their 
choice,  to  conserve  these  plants  on  their  ranches 
even  when  they  were  not  using  federal  money  or 
using  a  federal  permit.  After  what  seemed  hours 
of  discussion,  I  finally  asked,  "Well,  do  you  all 
want  to  do  it?"  There  was  dead  silence.  Then 
finally  one  landowner,  actually  the  son  of  the 
landowner  who  wanted  to  shoot  me,  said,  "I'll  do 
it."  Then  all  the  other  landowners  in  the  room 
started  shifting  in  their  chairs  saying  things  like, 
"Well,  okay  maybe,  but  we  need  to  see  this  thing 
in  writing."  At  that  point  I  promised  to  write  it  up 
with  the  help  of  some  landowners  and  I  would 
then  share  it  with  everyone  to  review.  This  is 
where  I  am  today. 

After  the  landowner  meeting  we  had  a  free 
barbecue  dinner  outdoors.  During  the  dinner, 
something  happened  that  touched  me  so  deeply 
that  I  will  never,  ever  forget  it.  I  looked  up  and 
noticed  one  of  the  landowners  approaching  me. 
He  had  his  son,  who  appeared  to  be  early  college 
age,  with  him.  Throughout  this  time  when  I  was 
thinking  of  developing  this  conservation  agree- 
ment, it  was  this  very  landowner  who  was  now 


approaching  me,  that  I  thought  would  probably 
not  do  this  conservation  agreement.  He  owned 
only  about  10  acres  and  the  Johnston's  frankenia 
was  on  practically  every  acre  of  his  property.  He 
and  his  family  are  poor  (or  at  least  poorer  than  all 
the  other  landowners  I  had  been  working  with) 
and  that  10  acres  is  all  they  have.  In  the  back  of  my 
mind  I  told  myself  that  they  would  probably  never 
do  this  and  I  could  understand  why.  But  I  was 
wrong.  He  and  his  son  came  and  stood  next  to  me 
and  said  "Gena,  we  want  to  ask  you  something. 
Would  it  be  okay  if,  you  know  this  conservation 
agreement  thing,  if  we  just  did  that  on  half  of  our 
property  so  that  maybe  we  could  still  build  a 
house  or  something  on  the  other  half?"  I  got  a 
lump  in  my  throat.  I  was  so  moved  with  emotion, 
that  all  I  could  say  was,  "Yes,  of  course  you  can." 
He  said,  "Okay  then,  next  time  you're  in  the 
neighborhood  stop  by  and  we'll  mark  off  which 
half."  I  said,  "Sure,"  and  they  turned  around,  got 
into  their  truck  and  left. 

I  still  get  choked  up  every  time  I  think  about 
it.  It  makes  me  just  want  to  scream  to  the  world, 
"See!  We  can  work  these  things  out!" 

A  Learning  Experience 

I  am  certainly  not  the  expert,  but  there  are  a 
few  things  that  I  have  learned  through  this  project. 
I  believe  there  are  five  important  elements  that 
you  need  to  consider  when  dedicating  yourself  to 
working  with  private  landowners:  time,  patience, 
the  ability  to  listen,  compassion,  and  honesty. 

It  takes  time  to  build  a  relationship  with 
people.  You  cannot  simply  knock  on  someone's 
door  and  ask,  "Would  you  be  interested  in  doing  a 
conservation  agreement?"  There  is  a  process  of 
building  trust  and  mutual  respect  that  cannot  be 
done  in  one  visit.  With  time  comes  familiarity  and 
with  familiarity  fear  and  distrust  start  to  fade.  I 
have  found,  also,  that  people  actually  need  your 
time.  There  is  no  one  out  there  with  whom  land- 
owners can  discuss  endangered  species  issues  and 
concerns  and  you  in  turn  become  their  one  and 
only  source  of  accurate,  honest  information.  I  find 
myself  explaining  over  and  over  to  each  and  every 
landowner  how  the  Endangered  Species  Act  dif- 
fers with  respect  to  plants  and  animals,  what  is 
legal  and  what  is  not  legal,  and  what  is  true  and 
what  is  untrue  about  what  they  have  heard  in  the 
media  or  from  their  neighbors.  Another  important 
factor  about  time  and  building  relationships  is  that 
they  must  be  maintained.  I  found  that  people  start 
to  get  fearful  again  when  you  have  not  been 
around  for  a  while — they  start  wondering  what 


5 


you're  up  to.  For  example,  I  went  on  vacation  in 
June,  so  I  was  unable  to  visit  the  community  for 
the  entire  month  of  June.  When  I  came  in  July, 
everyone  said,  "Where  have  you  been?  We 
thought  you  were  never  coming  back!"  The  same 
is  true  when  I  neglect  to  stay  in  touch  often  with 
some  landowners.  When  I  do  finally  call  to  say 
hello  and  update  them  on  the  project  or  whatever, 
they  often  make  a  comment  such  as,  "Yeah,  we 
were  wondering  what  happened  to  you." 

Patience  is  something  that  I  do  not  have  much 
of.  To  practice  patience  was  a  learning  experience 
for  me.  I  believe  many  of  us  who  work  for  various 
private  and  governmental  agencies  become 
focused  on  our  performance  plans,  career  goals, 
field  schedules,  and  calendars,  and  usually  work 
in  over-drive  thinking,  "I've  got  to  get  this  done 
now!"  But,  nothing  goes  too  fast  in  rural  Texas, 
and  I  had  to  calm  down.  There  is  a  fine  line  be- 
tween being  persistent  and  being  a  big  pain  in  the 
neck  and  unfortunately  there  were  a  few  times 
that  I  learned  this  the  hard  way  (like  the  time  this 
woman  told  me  that  I  was  like  a  wart  that  needed 
to  be  lanced  off).  Relax.  If  people  are  going  to  do 
something,  they  are  going  to  do  it  in  their  own 
time. 

If  there  is  one  thing  that  I  have  done  more 
than  any  other  one  thing,  it  would  be  listening. 
And  I  mean  really  listen.  Listening  is  not  simply 
waiting  for  someone  to  stop  talking  just  so  you  can 
make  your  righteous  conservation  point — you  can 
do  that  later.  Listen  with  compassion  to  their 
opinions,  fears,  and  concerns.  You  do  not  have  to 
agree,  but  at  least  you  can  try  to  understand  their 
point  of  view.  This  is  their  life,  their  livelihood, 
their  family,  and  most  importantly,  their  land.  Be 
compassionate.  You  do  not  need  to  have  all  the 
answers,  only  understanding.  If  you  want  people 
to  listen  to  what  you  have  to  say,  you  need  to  be 
equally  as  respectful  to  what  they  have  to  say.  As 
time  passes  you  realize  that  you  are  really  not  so 
different  from  one  another.  Your  values  about 
conservation  are  almost  identical,  you  just  have 
different  jobs. 

Honesty  goes  a  long  way.  Sometimes  honesty 
is  painful  when  you  know  the  person  you  are  talk- 
ing to  is  not  going  to  like  what  is  about  to  come 
out  of  your  mouth — but  be  strong.  Do  not  com- 
promise the  truth  for  the  sake  of  avoiding  conflict. 
I  was  honest  with  every  person  I  met  about  my 
project,  how  I  needed  to  do  it,  the  accuracy  of  the 
data  I  needed,  etc.  When  I  asked  for  permission  to 
access  private  ranches,  I  did  not  say  I  was  looking 
for  plants;  I  said  I  was  looking  for  endangered 


plants.  In  trying  to  build  trust,  I  went  out  of  my 
way  to  explain  what  I  was  doing  in  detail.  I  never 
tried  to  strike  shady  deals  or  triangulate  against 
the  federal  government.  Things  like  that  will  only 
come  back  later  to  haunt  you.  Play  by  the  rules.  I 
never  wanted  to  give  anyone  the  opportunity  to 
find  a  reason  not  to  trust  me.  I  never  crossed  a 
fence  line  if  I  was  not  exactly  sure  of  where  I  was 
and  I  never  mapped  a  population  of  endangered 
plants  without  the  landowner  knowing  exactly 
what  I  was  doing.  In  a  rural  community,  if  some- 
one feels  you  have  done  them  wrong,  then  for  all 
practical  purposes,  you  have  done  every  landown- 
er in  that  community  wrong.  News  travels  fast, 
bad  news  even  faster,  and  bad  endangered  species 
biologist  news  travels  like  lightning!  Avoid  as 
many  pitfalls  down  the  road  as  possible — always 
be  honest. 

Because  of  all  of  the  landowner  and  commu- 
nity outreach,  which  has  taken  so  much  time, 
heart,  and  soul,  we  now  have  a  tremendous 
opportunity  for  intensive  biological  studies  that 
without  outreach,  would  never  have  been  pos- 
sible. Today  we  have  implemented  a  grazing 
exclosure  experiment,  pollination  syndrome 
studies,  and  soil  seed  bank  analyses,  and  in  the 
future  we  will  also  initiate  a  genetic  analysis  of 
each  population.  It  seems  like  such  a  long,  hard 
way  to  get  there,  but  in  Texas,  it  may  be  the  only 
way. 

Literature  Cited 

Correll,  D.S.  and  M.S.  Johnston.  1979.  Manual  of  the 

Vascular  Plants  of  Texas.  The  University  of  Texas  at 

Dallas.  Richardson,  Texas. 
Correll,  D.S.  1966.  Some  additions  and  corrections  to  the 

flora  of  Texas  -  III.  Rhodora  68:420-428. 
LBJ  School  of  Public  Affairs.  1978.  Preserving  Texas' 

natural  heritage.  LBJ  School  Publ.  Aff.,  Pol.  Res.  Pro. 

Rept. 

Lesica,  P.  1987.  A  technique  for  monitoring  nonrhizoma- 
tous,  perennial  plant  species  in  permanent  belt  tran- 
sects. Natural  Areas  Journal.  7(2):65-68. 

Poole,  J.  and  D.  Riskind.  1987.  Endangered,  threatened, 
or  protected  native  plants  of  Texas.  Texas  Parks  and 
Wildlife  Department,  4200  Smith  School  Road,  Aus- 
tin, Texas,  78741. 

Rzedowski,  J.  1978.  Vegetacion  de  Mexico.  Editorial 
Limusa,  Mexico  City. 

Turner,  B.L.  1973.  A  new  species  of  Frankenia  (Franken- 
iaceae)  from  gypseous  soil  of  North  Central  Mexico. 
Sida  5:132-135. 

Turner,  B.L.  1980.  Status  report  on  Frankenia  johnstonii 
Correll.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Region  2, 
Albuquerque,  New  Mexico. 


6 


U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1984.  Final  rule  to  deter- 
mine Frankenia  johnstonii  (Johnston's  frankenia)  to  be 
an  endangered  species.  Federal  Register  49:31418- 
31421. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1988.  Johnston's  frank- 
enia {Frankenia  johnstonii)  recovery  plan.  U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service,  New  Mexico.  49  pp. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1993.  Endangered  and 
threatened  wildlife  and  plants,  50  CFR  17.11  &  17.12, 
pp.  40. 


Whalen,  M.A.  1980.  A  systematic  revision  of  the  New 
World  species  of  Frankenia  (Frankeniaceae).  Ph.D. 
dissertation,  the  University  of  Texas  at  Austin. 

Whalen,  M.A.  1987.  Systematics  of  Frankenia  (Franken- 
iaceae) in  North  and  South  America.  Systematic 
Botany  Monographs.  17:1-92. 


7 


Managing  and  Monitoring  Rare  and  Endangered  Plants 
on  Highway  Rights-of-Way  in  Texas 


JACKIE  M.  POOLEi  and  GENA  K.  JANSSEN^ 

^Texas  Natural  Heritage  Program,  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department,  Austin  78704 
^Endangered  Species  Program,  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department,  Austin  78704 

Abstract:  Texas  is  90  percent  private  land.  One  of  the  major  public  landholders  in  Texas  is  the 
Texas  Department  of  Transportation,  with  over  750,000  acres  of  highway  right-of-way.  A 
project  was  undertaken  in  1990  to  identify  listed  and  category  plants  occurring  on  highway 
rights-of-way,  develop  management  agreements  to  protect  these  species,  and  establish  mon- 
itoring plans  to  assess  the  effectiveness  of  the  management.  To  date  26  management /moni- 
toring areas  have  been  established.  Preliminary  results  shows  that  overall  species  populations 
have  increased  under  the  agreed-upon  management  regimes. 


Introduction 

Texas  encompasses  a  large  area  with  numer- 
ous habitats  resulting  from  widely  varying  cli- 
mate, geography,  geology,  soils,  and  topography. 
Because  of  this,  the  state  supports  over  6000  plant 
taxa  with  an  endemism  rate  of  about  10  percent 
and  has  28  listed  species  and  over  150  category  1 
and  2  species.  These  rare  species  occur  throughout 
the  state,  with  the  exception  of  the  Texas  Panhan- 
dle. Due  to  the  relatively  mild  Texas  climate  and 
booming  economic  growth,  the  human  population 
is  increasing  rapidly  and  is  displacing  or  destroy- 
ing many  species  and  their  habitats  through 
urbanization,  industrialization,  agriculture,  or 
disruption  of  natural  ecological  processes.  The  two 
main  obstacles  to  protecting  plant  diversity  in  the 
state  are  the  inadequacies  of  state  and  federal 
endangered  plant  laws  and  the  paucity  of  easily 
accessible  (i.e.,  public)  land.  State  law  goes  no 
further  than  to  prohibit  the  unpermitted  collection 
of  listed  plants  and  federal  law  protects  plants 
only  on  federal  lands  or  federally  permitted  or 
funded  projects  (and  these  are  usually  on  public 
lands).  Although  the  percentage  of  land  in  private 
ownership  (90%)  is  quite  high,  various  federal 
(National  Park  Service,  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service  [USFWS],  Department  of  Defense,  etc.), 
state  (University  of  Texas,  General  Land  Office, 
Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department  [TPWD], 
etc.),  and  local  agencies  control  the  16,600,000 
acres  within  the  public  domain  (General  Land 
Office  1993).  While  these  agencies  are  not  always 
required  by  law  to  protect  listed  or  category 
species,  they  often  do  so  for  good  public  relations, 
avoidance  of  listing,  or  an  agency  mandate  to  con- 
serve biodiversity.  One  often  overlooked  entity, 
which  owns  and  manages  over  750,000  acres 
across  the  entire  state,  is  the  Texas  Department  of 


Transportation  (TxDOT  1993).  While  required  to 
protect  listed  species  under  the  federal  Endan- 
gered Species  Act,  this  agency  usually  protects 
candidates  and  category  species  as  part  of  their 
mission  to  preserve  the  natural  surroundings. 
While  Texas  highways  are  well  known  for  their 
impressive  wildflower  displays,  the  general  public 
may  not  realize  that  these  seasonal  splashes  of 
color  are  due  not  just  to  the  highway  beautification 
program  endorsed  by  Lady  Bird  Johnson,  but  to 
TxDOT's  continuing  management  program  of 
seasonal  mowing  and  judicious  herbicide  use. 
Although  mowing  may  have  extirpated  most 
woody  species  from  highway  rights-of-way,  many 
shorter  stature  plants  remain  and  prosper  under 
conditions  of  reduced  competition  and  lessened 
herbivory.  A  survey  of  the  Texas  Natural  Heritage 
Program  (TxNHP)  database  revealed  150  occur- 
rences of  listed  or  category  plants  on  or  within  the 
immediate  vicinity  of  highway  rights-of-way.  To 
assure  protection  for  these  species  a  project  was 
initiated  in  1990  to  identify  listed  and  category 
plant  sites,  arrange  management  agreements  with 
TxDOT,  and  establish  monitoring  plots  to  evaluate 
demographic  trends  and  their  implications  for 
management.  Funding  was  obtained  from  a 
USFWS  Section  6  grant.  To  date  26  management/ 
monitoring  sites  have  been  established  that  are 
found  in  all  areas  of  the  state,  with  the  exception 
of  the  Panhandle,  and  that  represent  a  diversity  of 
habitat  types  (i.e,  swamps,  deserts,  grasslands, 
woodlands,  etc.).  Preliminary  results  indicate  that, 
overall,  species  populations  have  increased  under 
the  agreed-upon  management  regimes. 

Methods 

Several  thousand  plant  locality  records  within 
the  TxNHP  database  were  scanned  for  proximity 


8 


to  highway  rights-of-way.  The  physical  locations 
were  then  searched  as  time  and  phenology  al- 
lowed. When  listed  or  category  species  were  relo- 
cated, a  meeting  was  then  set  up  between  TPWD 
botanists  and  TxDOT  personnel.  Usually  there 
was  a  year's  lag  time  between  site  identification 
and  the  TPWD/TxDOT  meeting  due  to  schedule 
conflicts,  etc.  Meetings  were  held  at  the  site  and 
TxDOT  management  as  well  as  rare  species  re- 
quirements were  discussed.  After  reaching  agree- 
ment on  management  strategies  for  both  the 
species  and  the  highway  right-of-way,  manage- 
ment agreements  were  drafted,  reviewed  by  all 
parties  concerned,  and  revised.  Management 
agreements  included  the  location  and  description 
of  the  site  (including  maps),  management  tech- 
niques currently  used,  species  of  concern  at  the 
site,  recommended  management  procedures,  red 
flag  conditions  (conditions  that  indicate  a  signi- 
ficant decline  in  vigor  or  numbers  of  individuals 
within  the  population  at  the  site),  authorship, 
reviewers,  revisors,  and  dates.  Usually  monitoring 
plots  were  established  immediately  after  the  site 
meeting,  using  recognized  methods  (Bowles  et  al. 

1986,  Travis  and  Sutter  1986,  Palmer  1987,  PavHk 

1987,  Spellerberg  1991,  Cropper  1993,  Given  1994). 
Monitoring  plans  were  written,  including  meth- 
ods, results,  general  notes,  and  red  flag  conditions. 
Monitoring  was  conducted  on  an  annual  basis, 
with  data  being  analyzed  and  compared  to  previ- 
ous data  to  pinpoint  trends  in  vigor  and /or 
demography.  If  red  flag  conditions  were  encoun- 
tered, an  attempt  was  made  to  ascertain  the  cause. 
If  the  conditions  were  the  result  of  TxDOT  man- 
agement practices,  the  management  agreement 
was  revised.  Both  management  agreements  and 
monitoring  plans  were  sent  to  USFWS  as  part  of 
the  annual  Section  6  report. 

Each  of  the  26  sites  and  species  required  a  dif- 
ferent monitoring  methodology.  Table  1  presents 
the  various  taxa,  and  the  demographic  and  vigor 
methodology  used  for  each. 

Results 

Of  the  150  potential  sites  identified  in  the 
Texas  Natural  Heritage  Program  database  as  pos- 
sibly occurring  on  highway  rights-of-way,  57  were 
relocated,  15  were  either  not  found  or  not  found  to 
be  on  a  highway  right-of-way,  and  88  still  require 
verification  as  of  January  1995.  Management 
agreements  were  initiated  for  26  sites  and  a  total  of 
26  species.  Four  species  have  multiple  sites  and 
four  sites  contain  two  or  more  species.  A  total  of 


33  populations  representing  26  species  are  being 
monitored.  The  26  species  include  11  listed  spe- 
cies, 3  category  1  species,  and  12  category  2  spe- 
cies. Of  the  33  populations,  14  have  been  moni- 
tored for  4  years,  11  for  2  years,  5  for  3  years,  2  for 
6  years,  and  1  for  1  year.  As  of  1994,  20  popula- 
tions increased  (i.e.,  exhibited  a  10%  or  greater 
increase  in  numbers  of  individuals  between  the 
initial  and  last  census),  four  decreased  (i.e.,  a  10% 
or  greater  decrease  in  numbers),  and  eight  re- 
mained stable  (i.e.,  a  less  than  10%  increase  or 
decrease  in  numbers).  Of  the  21  populations 
monitored  more  than  2  years,  13  have  fluctuated 
over  the  years  (both  increased  and  decreased  in 
size),  including  14  of  the  16  populations  studied 
for  the  longest  period  (4-6  years).  Thus  it  appears 
that  there  is  a  high  likelihood  of  fluctuating 
population  trends  after  3  years.  A  longer  period  of 
study  might  be  required  to  reveal  actual  long-term 
trends  in  these  populations  (Given  1994).  Vigor 
data  is  even  more  inconclusive,  with  no  trends 
apparent  at  all.  This  is  probably  due  to  several 
factors,  such  as  small  sample  size,  climatic  fluctua- 
tions, and  the  brief  time  period  of  data  collection. 
Table  2  gives  an  overview  of  the  demographic 
trends  as  of  1994. 

Discussion 

Overall,  the  management  agreement-moni- 
toring program  has  been  successful.  Although 
trends  continue  to  oscillate,  most  populations  have 
increased.  Decreases  were  usually  attributable  to 
drought,  but  occasional  abnormal  habitat  disturb- 
ances such  as  fiber  optic  cable  placement  contrib- 
uted as  well.  Part  of  the  reason  for  population 
increase  might  be  the  change  in  management 
activities  as  well  as  enhanced  awareness  on  the 
part  of  the  local  TxDOT  maintenance  staff.  For 
example,  the  initial  increase  of  the  Callirhoe  scab- 
riuscula  population  was  probably  due  to  a  shift  in 
the  mowing  regime  to  later  in  the  year  after  the 
plants  had  set  fruit.  However,  most  other  sites 
benefited  from  increased  awareness  on  the  part  of 
TxDOT  personnel  as  well  as  the  local  community. 
Many  sites  were  saved  from  damage  by  concerned 
local  citizens  who  noted  that  road  material  piles 
were  coming  dangerously  close  to  rare  plants,  or 
fiber  optic  cables  being  placed  in  highway  rights- 
of-way  were  trenching  through  endangered 
species  habitat.  Most  past  damage  resulted  from  a 
lack  of  knowledge.  If  no  one  knows  the  signifi- 
cance, the  identity,  and  the  location  of  rare  plants, 
how  can  they  be  protected?  Once  this  knowledge 


9 


Table  1.  Monitored  taxa  with  demographic  and  vigor  methodology. 


Taxon  (Legal  Status*) 


Demography 


Vigor 


Ambrosia  cheiranthifolia  (LE) 
Amsonia  tharpii  (C2) 

Ancistrocactus  tobuschii  (LE) 

Asclepias  prostrata  (C2) 

Aster  puniceus  ssp.  elliottii 
var.  scabricaiilis  (CI) 

Callirkoe  scabriusciila  (LE) 

Con/phantlia  albicolumnaria  (C2) 

Coryphantha  kesteri  (C2) 

Coryphantha  minima  (LE) 

Echinocereus  lloydii  (LE) 


Echinocereus  viridiflonis 
var.  davisii  (LE) 

Frankenia  johnstonii  (LE) 


Genistidium  dumosum  (C2) 
Helianthus  paradoxus  (CI) 
Hibiscus  dasycalyx  (C2) 

Hoffmannseggia  tenella  (LE) 

Lesquerella  thamnophila  (CI) 
Nolina  arenicola  (C2) 
Paronychia  wilkinsonii  (C2) 

Pediomelum  humile  (C2) 
Sfl/i7W  penstemonoides  (C2) 

Spiranthes  parksii  (LE) 

Thelocactus  bicolor  var. 
flavidispinus  (C2) 


delineated  plot,  number  of  stems 

delineated  plots,  number  of 
individuals,  individuals  identified 

delineated  plot,  number  of 
individuals 

generalized  plots,  number  of 
individuals,  individuals  identified 

delineated  plots,  number  of  indi- 
viduals, large  individuals  tagged 

delineated  plots,  no.  of  individuals 

tagged  individuals 

delineated  plot,  number  of  individuals, 
individuals  identified 

delineated  plot,  number  of  individuals, 
individuals  identified 

delineated  plots,  number  of  individuals 


delineated  plot,  number  of  individuals, 
individuals  identified 

generalized  plot,  number  of  individuals 


tagged  individuals 

delineated  plots,  number  of  individuals 
tagged  individuals 

delineated  plot,  number  of 
individuals,  density 

generalized  plot,  number  of  individuals 

tagged  individuals 

delineated  plot,  number  of 
individuals,  individuals  identified 


number  of  stems 

number  of  stems,  number  of 
flowers /fruits  per  plant 

stem  diameter,  number  of 
flowers /fruits  per  plant 

number  and  length  of  stems 
per  plant 

height,  number  of  primary  stems  and 
secondary  stems,  no.  flowers/plant 

number  of  buds,  flowers,  &  fruits/plant 

height 

stem  diameter 
stem  diameter 


stem  height  and  diameter,  no.  of  stems 
and  flowers  per  plant 

number  of  buds /flowers 


diameter,  height,  and  number 
of  flowers /fruits  per  plant 

height,  width 

number  of  individuals 

height,  number  of  stems,  no.  flowers/ 
fruits  per  individual 

number  of  individuals 

number  and  length  of  stems  per  plant 

height,  diameter 

areal  cover  (height  X  width) 


generalized  plot,  number  of  individuals    no.  of  leaves  &  flowers /fruits  per  plant 


generally  sited  plots,  number  of 
individuals 


number  of  primary  and  secondary 
stems,  no.  flowers /fruits  per  individual 


delineated  plot,  number  of  individuals     height,  number  of  flowers  per  plant 


delineated  plot,  number  of 
individuals,  individuals  identified 


plant  diameter 


10 


Table  1  (continued) 


Taxon  (Legal  Status*) 

Demography 

Vigor 

Thymophylla  tqyhroleuca  (LE) 

delineated  plot,  number  of 
individuals,  individuals  identified 

diameter,  height,  and  number  of  flowers 
per  plant 

Tillandsia  haileyi  (C2) 

delineated  plots,  number  of 
individuals 

number  of  individuals  per  size  class, 
number  of  flowering  individuals 

Zizania  texam  (LE) 

delineated  plot,  number  of 
individuals,  individuals  identified 

areal  cover 

*LE  =  listed  as  federally  and  state  endangered;  CI  =  federal  candidate  category  1  taxon  with  enough  information  available  to  pro- 
pose for  listing;  C2  =  federal  candidate  category  2  taxon  under  current  review  for  possible  listing  as  either  endangered  or  threat- 
ened, but  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  is  in  need  of  more  information. 


Table  2.  Demographic  trends  for  species  on  highw^ay  rights-of-way. 


Study  Length 


Taxon 

Site  Name 

Population  Trends* 

(in  years) 

Ambrosia  cheiranthifolia 

Carreta  Creek 

Increasing 

2 

Amsonia  tharpii 

McCamey  Road 

Stable 

3 

Ancistrocactiis  tobiischii 

Kickapoo 

Increasing 

3 

AscJepias  prostrata 

Roma 

Stable  (fluctuating) 

4 

AscJepias  prostrata 

Dolores 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Asclepias  prostrata 

Tigre  Chiquito 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Aster  puniceus  ssp.  elliottii  var.  scahricaidis 

Palestine 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Aster  puniceiis  ssp.  elliottii  var.  scabricaulis 

Ben  Wheeler 

Increasing 

2 

Aster  puniceus  ssp.  elliottii  var.  scabricaulis 

Lake  Lydia 

Increasing 

2 

CallirJwe  scabriusaila 

Ballinger 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

6 

CallirJioe  scabriusaila 

Maverick 

Decreasing 

4 

Coryphantha  albicolumnaria 

38  Hill 

Stable 

3 

Coryphantha  hesteri 

Marathon 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Coryphantha  mininm 

Marathon 

Stable  (fluctuating) 

4 

Echinocereus  lloydii 

McKenzie  Exit 

Increasing 

3 

Echinocereus  viridiflonis  var.  davisii 

Marathon 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Frankenia  johnstonii 

Zapata 

Not  applicable 

1 

Genistidium  dumosum 

38  Hill 

Increasing 

3 

Helianthus  paradoxus 

Diamond  Y 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Hibiscus  dasycalyx 

Cherokee 

Stable 

2 

Hibiscus  dasycalyx 

Lovelady 

Stable 

2 

Hibiscus  dasycalyx 

Boggy  Slough 

Increasing 

2 

Hojfmannseggia  tenella 

Bishop 

Increasing 

2 

Lesquerella  thamnophila 

Tigre  Chiquito 

Decreasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Nolina  arenicola 

Plateau 

Stable 

2 

Paronychia  wilkinsonii 

Marathon 

Increasing 

4 

Pediomelum  humile 

Del  Rio 

Increasing 

2 

Salvia  penstemonoides 

Fredrick  Creek 

Stable  (fluctuating) 

4 

Spiranthes  parksii 

FM  974 

Decreasing 

2 

Thymophylla  tephroleuca 

Dolores 

Decreasing  (fluctuating) 

4 

Tillandsia  baileyi 

Sarita 

Increasing 

2 

Thelocactus  bicolorvar.  flavidispinus 

Marathon 

Increasing 

4 

Zizania  texana 

San  Marcos 

Increasing  (fluctuating) 

6 

*Increasing  -  a  10%  or  greater  increase  in  numbers  of  individuals  or  stems  from  the  initial  to  the  final  census;  Decreasing  =  a  10%  or 
greater  decrease  in  numbers  of  individuals  or  stems  from  the  initial  to  the  final  census;  Stable  =  a  less  than  10%  change  in  numbers 
of  individuals  or  stems  from  the  initial  to  the  final  census;  Fluctuating  =  a  population  exhibiting  both  increasing  and  decreasing 
trends  over  the  monitoring  period. 


11 


is  gained,  proactive  management  and  planning 
can  occur.  Occasional  mistakes  will  still  happen 
due  to  personnel  turnover,  miscommunication, 
and  rarely,  intentional  vandalism.  However,  the 
overall  benefit  gained  for  the  conservation  of  these 
rare  species  is  much  greater  as  the  result  of  the 
information  sharing  among  knowledgeable  and 
concerned  people.  Future  work  needs  to  be  done, 
such  as  contacting  the  utility  companies  that  have 
easements  along  the  right-of-way  as  well  as  the 
adjacent  private  landowners.  When  all  stakehold- 
ers in  the  habitat  are  made  aware  of  these  rare 
plants,  the  plants'  prospects  for  long-term  survival 
are  more  assured. 

Acknowledgments 

This  study  was  funded  in  part  by  the  Texas 
Parks  and  Wildlife  Department.  However,  the 
majority  of  the  funding  came  from  a  Section  6 
grant  from  Region  6  of  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service.  Over  the  years  of  this  project,  more  people 
than  can  be  named  in  this  paper  worked  under 
less  than  idyllic  conditions  on  the  monitoring 
plots.  We  are  greatly  in  their  debt  for  helping  col- 
lect data.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  Rob  Sutter 
and  various  other  staff  of  The  Nature  Conservancy 
for  teaching  us  various  techniques  and  skills  as 
well  as  reviewing  the  initial  plans.  We  also  owe  a 
great  deal  of  thanks  to  the  numerous  personnel  of 
the  Texas  Department  of  Transportation,  who  met 
us  at  sites,  explained  their  management  practices, 
and  became  willing  stewards  of  rare  plants  of  the 
rights-of-way.  In  particular  we  would  like  to  ex- 
press our  greatest  appreciation  to  two  TxDOT  staff 
members,  David  Dunlap  and  Dennis  Markwardt. 
David's  encouragement  advanced  the  task  from  a 
single  protected  right-of-way  to  a  full-scale  project. 


Dennis  has  been,  and  continues  to  be,  a  most  de- 
pendable ally  and  liaison.  His  skill  at  negotiation 
has  spared  us  many  a  disagreeable  discussion  and 
his  ability  to  get  a  group  of  maintenance  foremen, 
bureaucrats,  and  conservation  biologists  to  reach 
consensus  is  probably  more  responsible  for  the 
protection  of  these  plants  than  all  the  rest  of  the 
work  combined. 

Literature  Cited 

Bowles,  M.L. ,  W.J.  Hess,  M.M.  DeMauro,  and  R.D.  Hie- 
bert.  1986.  Endangered  plant  inventory  and  monitor- 
ing strategies  at  Indiana  Dunes  National  Lakeshore. 
Natural  Areas  Journal  6:18-26. 

Cropper,  S.C.  1993.  Management  of  Endangered  Plants. 
Commonwealth  Scientific  and  Industrial  Research 
Organization  (CSIRO)  Publications,  East  Melboume, 
Australia. 

General  Land  Office.  1993.  The  public  lands  in  Texas.  In 
M.  Kingston  and  M.G.  Crawford,  editors.  1994-1995 
Texas  Almanac,  pp.  495-496.  Dallas  Morning  News, 
Texas. 

Given,  D.R.  1994.  Principles  and  Practice  of  Plant  Con- 
servation. Timber  Press,  Portland,  OR. 

Palmer,  M.E.  1987.  A  critical  look  at  rare  plant  monitor- 
ing in  the  United  States.  Biological  Conservation 
39:113-127. 

Pavlik,  B.M.  1987.  Autecological  monitoring  of  endan- 
gered plants.  In  T.S.  Elias,  editor.  Conservation  and 
Management  of  Rare  and  Endangered  Plants,  pp. 
385-390.  California  Native  Plant  Society,  Sacramento. 

Spellerberg,  I.F.  1991.  Monitoring  Ecological  Change. 
Cambridge  University  Press,  Cambridge,  England. 

Texas  Department  of  Transportation  (TxDOT).  1993. 
Integrated  roadside  vegetation  management  stan- 
dards, January  1993  draft.  Texas  Department  of 
Transportation,  Austin. 

Travis,  J.  and  R.  Sutter.  1986.  Experimental  designs  and 
statistical  methods  for  demographic  studies  of  rare 
plants.  Natural  Areas  Journal  6(3):3-12. 


12 


Demography  of  Ipomopsis  aggregata  ssp.  weberi,  a 
Rare  Plant  of  Northern  Colorado 

DIETER  H.  WILKEN 
Santa  Barbara  Botanic  Garden,  1212  Mission  Canyon  Road,  CA  93105 

Abstract:  Ipomopsis  aggregata  ssp.  weheri  is  known  from  fewer  than  15  sites  in  the  southern 
Park  Range  of  northern  Colorado.  Subspecies  weheri  grows  on  open  sites  within  the  sub- 
alpine  forest.  Demographic  studies  were  conducted  at  four  sites  to  estimate  seedling 
recruitment,  survivorship,  longevity,  and  seed  production.  Approximately  50  percent  of 
seedlings  observed  in  sites  free  from  seed  immigration  were  recruited  in  the  first  2  years. 
Highest  mortalities  occurred  among  seedlings  during  the  first  year,  as  a  result  of  early 
summer  drought.  Plants  surviving  to  reproduce  lived  from  2  to  5+  years,  with  an  average 
life  span  of  3  years.  An  average  of  75  flowers  was  produced  per  plant,  with  mean  seed  sets 
between  1.4  and  3.3  per  flower.  Stable  populations  occur  in  sites  with  less  than  50  percent 
cover,  suggesting  that  reduced  competition  and  availability  of  open  sites  promote  successful 
reproduction,  establishment,  and  long-term  population  stability. 


Introduction 
Reproductive  biology  and  demography  are 
critical  factors  in  understanding  dynamics  of  rare 
plant  populations  (Menges  1991,  Simberloff  1988). 
The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  characterize  the 
demography  of  Ipomopsis  aggregata  (Pursh)  V. 
Grant  subsp.  weberi  Grant  &  Wilken  (Polemonia- 
ceae),  which  is  narrowly  restricted  to  the  southern 
Park  Range  of  north-central  Colorado  (Grant  and 
Wilken  1986).  Subspecies  weheri  is  considered 
environmentally  "sensitive"  and  "potentially  im- 
periled" by  the  Colorado  Natural  Areas  Program 
(1995,  personal  communication).  Ipomopsis 
aggregata  is  composed  of  six  subspecies,  which 
differ  strikingly  in  geographic  and  ecological 
distribution,  morphological  variation,  and  mode  of 
pollination  (Grant  and  Wilken  1986).  Subspecies 
weheri  occurs  on  thin  soils  of  open  sites  in  associa- 
tion with  other  herbaceous  perennials.  Such  sites 
are  scattered  primarily  throughout  subalpine 
forest  at  elevations  between  2070  and  3140  m.  At 
least  13  known  occurrences  have  been  docu- 
mented. Subspecies  weheri  is  separated  from 
conspecifics  by  white  to  pink,  salverform  corollas, 
corolla  tubes  10-15  mm  long  and  less  than  1  mm 
in  diameter,  short,  broadly  flaring  throats,  and 
slightly  exserted  anthers  (Grant  and  Wilken  1986). 
Plants  have  basal  leaf  rosettes  prior  to  flowering 
and  from  one  to  six  erect,  paniculate  flowering 
shoots,  each  with  9-18  short,  lateral  inflorescences. 

Methods 

Four  study  sites,  Buffalo,  Dumont  W,  Dumont 
S,  and  Walton,  were  chosen  in  1984  to  represent  a 
range  in  altitude  and  geographical  distribution. 


Two  sites  near  Dumont  Lake,  separated  by  ca.  0.5 
km,  represent  two  different  aspects,  an  east-facing 
slope  with  a  fine-grained  substrate  and  moderate 
herbaceous  cover  (Dumont  W)  and  a  flat  with  a 
rocky  to  coarse-grained  substrate  and  little  vege- 
tative cover  (Dumont  S).  Eight  nonadjacent  1  m^ 
plots  were  placed  at  each  of  the  sites  in  late 
August  or  early  September,  1984.  Plots  were 
chosen  to  include  at  least  one  fruiting  individual. 
The  number  of  seedlings  was  estimated  in  each 
plot  between  late  May  and  late  June  in  1985  and 
1986,  depending  on  time  of  exposure  after  snow 
melt.  Seedling  counts  were  based  on  observations 
made  about  every  3  weeks.  The  largest  number  of 
seedlings  in  each  plot  was  considered  an  estimate 
of  initial  cohort  size.  Although  new  seedlings  were 
found  later  in  some  plots  at  the  end  of  the  first 
season,  these  accounted  for  less  than  1  percent  of 
the  total  number  in  any  plot.  Two  cohorts  re- 
cruited as  seedlings  (1985  and  1986)  were  followed 
through  reproduction  at  each  site.  Sites  were 
visited  in  May  or  June  and  again  in  August  or 
September  (1985-1989)  to  estimate  the  number  of 
surviving  vegetative  rosettes  and  number  of 
reproductive  individuals.  All  vegetative  rosettes  in 
each  plot  were  mapped,  using  a  10  x  10  cm  grid, 
and  observed  until  death.  A  total  of  417  individ- 
uals, beginning  with  1-year-old  rosettes  that  sur- 
vived the  first  winter,  were  mapped  and  followed 
until  death.  The  probability  of  survival  during 
each  observation  period  (May-June,  August- 
September)  was  calculated  as  a  proportion  of 
plants  observed  during  the  previous  sampling 
period. 


13 


Estimates  of  shoot  height,  number  of  lateral 
inflorescences,  and  number  of  flowers  were  ob- 
tained, using  20  plants  outside  established  plots  in 
each  population  in  1985.  Fruit  and  seed  set  was 
sampled  from  each  of  20  plants  in  each  of  2 
different  years.  Fruit  and  seed  set  were  recorded 
from  three  flowers  per  plant,  each  sample  taken 
from  a  separate  lateral  inflorescence  (lower,  mid- 
dle, upper)  on  each  flowering  shoot. 

Recruitment  of  seedlings  from  the  seed  bank 
was  estimated  from  one  additional  non-adjacent  1 
m^  plot  at  each  site.  All  reproductive  plants  within 
a  radius  of  2  m  from  the  center  of  each  plot  were 
removed  each  year  from  1985  to  1989.  This  corre- 
sponds to  an  area  three  times  greater  than  the 
mean  seed  dispersal  distance  (0.38  m^)  reported 
for  /.  aggregata  ssp.  aggregata  (Waser  and  Price 
1983).  Seeds  of  /.  aggregata  do  not  have  any 
specialized  means  of  dispersal.  Thus,  I  assumed 
that  (1)  any  observed  seedlings  appearing  in 
subsequent  years  were  recruited  from  seeds  in 
place  in  1985  and  that  (2)  immigration  by  surface 
dispersal  from  outside  each  plot  (by  wind  or 
surface  runoff  during  rain  storms  and  snow  melt) 
was  minimized.  This  is  an  imprecise  method  in 
assessing  seedling  recruitment,  but  no  other  in  situ 
method  could  be  devised.  For  comparative  pur- 
poses, seedling  recruitment  was  monitored  in  one 
of  the  eight  plots  at  each  site  used  for  studying 
survivorship. 

Field  observations  suggested  that  the  distribu- 
tion of  plants  was  related  to  areas  free  of  vegeta- 
tive cover  and  rocks.  Sites  with  open  ground 
characterized  by  fine  to  medium-grained  soils 
apparently  had  higher  densities  of  rosettes  and 
reproductive  individuals  than  sites  with  relatively 
high  levels  of  vegetative  cover  or  coarse  sub- 
strates. Consequently,  four  100  m  x  1  m  belt 
transects  were  placed  along  lines  that  crossed  the 
apparent  boundaries  of  Ipomopsis  populations. 
Transects  were  oriented  perpendicular  to  the 
perimeter  of  each  population  at  four  points  and 
centered  over  a  reproductive  plant  at  each  point. 
Cover  and  number  of  reproductive  plants  were 
sampled  in  1  m-^  quadrats  placed  at  6  m  intervals 
along  each  transect.  Cover  was  estimated  by  deter- 
mining the  basal  area  of  herbaceous  plants,  crown 
cover  of  shrubs,  and  rocks  visible  at  the  substrate 
surface,  using  standard  methods  (Mueller- 
Dombois  and  EUenberg  1974).  Each  transect  was 
composed  of  eight  quadrats  on  either  site  of  the 
pivotal  quadrat,  which  was  not  included  in  the 
analysis.  Cover  also  was  estimated  in  each  of  the 
eight  permanent  plots  established  for  survivorship 


studies.  All  statistical  analyses  were  performed 
using  log  or  arcsin  (for  proportions)  transforma- 
tions, but  all  reported  data  are  untransformed. 

Results 

No  differences  were  found  in  survivorship 
between  cohorts  during  the  first  2  years  at  each  of 
the  four  sites  (two-way  ANOVA  df  =  1,56;  Buffalo 
ms  =  0.623,  F  =  3.483,  p  =  0.067;  Dumont  S  ms  = 
0.246,  F  =  0.817,  p  =  0.489;  Dumont  W  ms  =  .0048, 
F  =  0.110,  p  =  0.741;  Walton  ms  =  0.293,  F  =  2.167, 
p  =  0.147).  Consequently,  cohort  data  were  com- 
bined for  each  site.  Differences  between  survivor- 
ships among  cohorts  at  the  end  of  four  successive 
seasons  (two  summers,  two  winters)  were  tested 
by  a  two-way  analysis  of  variance  (Sokal  and 
Rohlf  1981),  with  plots  as  replicates.  The  density  of 
seedlings  per  1  m^  ranged  from  76.9  ±  35.4  to  219.2 
±113.2  (Table  1).  Probabilities  of  surviving  the  first 
summer  ranged  from  0.078  to  0.154.  Plants  surviv- 
ing the  first  summer  at  all  sites  had  high  probabil- 
ities of  surviving  successive  seasons  through  the 
first  2  years  of  growth.  Seedling  survivorship 
during  the  first  summer  was  significantly  higher  at 
Buffalo  than  at  the  other  three  sites  (ANOVA  df  = 
3,60;  ms  =  0.006,  F  =  3.702,  p  =  0.016).  Although 

Table  1.  Mean  proportions  of  survivors  after  four  con- 
secutive seasons  during  first  2  years.  Means  of  propor- 
tions with  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different  at 
p  =  0.05,  df  =  56  (unplanned  comparisons,  Sokal  and 
Rohlf  1981).  Mean  number  of  seedlings  in  first  year  were 
182.1  ±  103.2  (Buffalo),  76.9  ±  35.4  (Dumont  S),  161.0  ± 
87.8  (Dumont  W),  and  219.2  ±  113.2  (Walton). 


Site 

Season 

Mean 

SD 

Buffalo 

Summer  1 

0.154^ 

.085 

Winter  1 

0.485^ 

.273 

Summer  2 

0.641^ 

.272 

Winter  2 

0.704^ 

.704 

Dumont  S 

Summer  1 

0.103^^ 

.076 

Winter  1 

0.720^ 

.146 

Summer  2 

0.905^ 

.289 

Winter  2 

0.921^ 

.126 

Dumont  W 

Summer  1 

0.105^ 

.047 

Winter  1 

0.532^ 

.302 

Summer  2 

0.730^ 

.348 

Winter  2 

0.716^ 

.373 

Walton 

Summer  1 

0.078^ 

.048 

Winter  1 

0.586^ 

.316 

Summer  2 

0.809^ 

.213 

Winter  2 

0.796^ 

.222 

14 


probabilities  of  survival  increased  at  each  of  the 
four  sites  with  successive  seasons,  the  trend  was 
not  significant  except  at  Dumont  W  and  Walton. 

Of  the  417  plants  that  survived  the  first  year, 
at  least  229  survived  (55%)  to  flowering.  Age  at  re- 
production ranged  from  2  to  at  least  5  years  (Table 
2).  All  reproductive  plants  died  following  fruiting. 
The  largest  age  class  of  flowering  plants  (106 
plants)  was  3  years,  representing  45  percent  of  all 
reproductive  plants  surviving  the  first  year.  Four 
year  olds  (52  plants)  represented  the  next  highest 
age  class,  followed  by  2  year  olds  (37  plants)  and  5 
year  olds  (34  plants).  At  least  five  vegetative 
rosettes  survived  the  fifth  year  without  flowering. 
The  density  of  reproductive  plants  ranged  from 
0.4  to  2.7  per  plot. 

No  significant  differences  were  detected 
among  the  four  sites  for  shoot  height  (ANOVA 
df  =  3,76,  ms  =  0.001,  F  =  0.106,  p  =  0.956),  number 
of  lateral  inflorescences  per  shoot  (ANOVA  df  = 
3,76,  ms  =  0.006,  F  =  0.667,  p  =  0.575),  and  number 
of  flowers  per  plant  (ANOVA  df  =  3,76,  ms  = 
0.002,  F  =  0.154,  p  =  0.927).  Over  all  sites,  shoot 
height  ranged  from  21  to  51  cm  (means  ±  sd: 
Buffalo,  36.1  ±  9.1;  Dumont  S,  34.6  ±  7.2;  Dumont 
W,  34.3  ±  7.9;  Walton,  35.1  ±  8.3).  The  number  of 
inflorescences  per  shoot  ranged  from  8  to  21 
(means  ±  sd:  Buffalo,  13.6  ±  2.6;  Dumont  S,  13.1  ± 
3.0;  Dumont  W,  13.7  ±  3.0;  Walton,  12.9  ±  3.3),  and 
numbers  of  flowers  per  plant  ranged  from  44  to 
122  (means  ±  sd:  Buffalo,  74.1  ±  17.7;  Dumont  S, 
76.1  ±  17.6;  Dumont  W,  75.5  ±  17.5;  Walton,  73.6  ± 
20.2). 

No  differences  in  fruit  set  were  found  between 
years  at  each  site  (ANOVA  df  =  1,39:  Buffalo  ms  = 
0.009,  F  =  0.039,  p  =  0.844;  Dumont  S  ms  =  0.002, 
F  =  0.193,  p  =  0.667;  Dumont  W  ms  =  0.001,  F  = 
0.067,  p  =  0.797;  Walton  ms  =  0.043,  F  =  1.926,  p  = 
0.173).  Fruit  set  over  all  years  and  sites  ranged 
from  63  to  92  percent  (Table  3).  Fruit  set  was  signi- 
ficantly lower  in  both  sampling  years  at  Buffalo 
than  at  the  other  three  sites.  Significant  differences 
in  seed  set  were  found  between  years  at  each  site, 
but  none  could  be  attributed  to  position  on  the  in- 
florescence (two-way  ANOVA  df  =  2,114:  Buffalo 
ms  =  2.974,  F  =  1.218,  p  =  0.272;  Dumont  S  ms  = 
0.003,  F  =  0.002,  p  =  0.967;  Dumont  W  ms  =  5.591, 
F  =  3.606,  p  =  0.060;  Walton  ms  =  1.944,  F  =  2.348, 
p  =  0.128).  Data  (seed  set  among  3  flowers)  were 
combined  for  each  plant  and  analyzed  by  year  and 
site.  Mean  number  of  seeds  per  fruit  ranged  from 
1.4  to  3.3  (Table  3).  Differences  were  found  only 
between  the  extreme  means  (1.4  ±  1.7  at  Buffalo  in 
1986  versus  3.3  ±  1.8  at  Walton  in  1987). 


The  number  of  seedlings  observed  annually  in 
plots  with  and  without  removal  of  seed  sources 
was  calculated  as  a  proportion  of  total  number 
observed  (Table  4).  The  number  of  seedlings  in  the 
first  year  ranged  from  21  to  150.  Proportions  of 
seedlings  in  removal  plots  declined  steadily  over  6 
years  relative  to  non-removal  plots.  Proportions  in 
removal  plots  ranged  from  0.356  to  0.655  during 
the  first  year  and  from  0  to  0.025  during  the  last 
year.  Proportions  in  non-removal  plots  ranged 
from  0.117  to  0.166  and  from  0.136  to  0.289  during 
comparable  years,  respectively. 

Patterns  of  seedling  recruitment  were  com- 
pared to  two  expectations.  First,  a  gradual  decline 
in  seedling  recruitment  was  assumed,  with  the 
largest  number  predicted  during  the  first  year  and 
the  smallest  in  the  sixth  and  last  year  of  the  study. 
Proportions  of  seedlings  in  each  plot  were  ranked 
relative  to  expectations  using  Spearman's  coeffi- 
cient (Sokal  and  Rohlf  1981).  Second,  uniform 
recruitment  (0.167)  was  assumed  in  each  of  6 
years  and  compared  observed  proportions  using  a 
Goodness  of  Fit  test  (Sokal  and  Rohlf  1981). 
Among  the  four  removal  plots,  three  showed  a 
significant  correlation  with  expectations  of  an 
annual  decline.  Among  the  four  non-removal 
plots,  none  was  significantly  correlated.  Among  aU 
eight  plots,  only  one  of  the  non-removal  plots 
(Walton)  was  consistent  with  expectations  of 
uniform  recruitment. 

Mean  cover  ranged  from  66.6  to  87.2  percent 
per  square  meter  along  belt  transects  outside  of 
established  populations  (Table  5).  In  contrast, 
mean  cover  within  established  populations  ranged 
from  36.6  to  49.7  percent.  Reproductive  plant 
density  ranged  from  0.9  to  1.1  per  square  meter, 
including  quadrats  without  reproductive  plants. 
However,  with  empty  quadrats  excluded,  mean 
density  ranged  from  1.2  to  2.3  per  square  meter. 
Cover  explained  25.1^9.7  percent  of  the  variance 
in  reproductive  plant  density.  Mean  cover  in 
permanent  plots  (n  =  32)  was  34.1  ±  21.3  percent, 
density  of  seedlings  observed  during  the  first  year 
was  159.8  ±  100.7,  and  mean  reproductive  plant 
density  was  1.1  ±  0.6.  Cover  in  permanent  plots 
accounted  for  16.9  percent  of  the  variance  in  seed- 
ling density  and  52.8  percent  of  the  variance  in 
reproductive  plant  density. 

Discussion 
Surviving  to  reproduce  in  I.  aggregata  ssp. 
zveberi  depends  primarily  on  an  ability  to  survive 
the  first  growing  season  following  seedling  re- 
cruitment, rather  than  on  factors  imposed  during 


15 


Table  2.  Number  of  reproductive  plants  in  each  age  class  in  four  populations  of  Ipomopsis  aggregata  ssp. 
weberi. 


Age  Class  Buffalo  Dumont  S  Dumont  W  Walton  Total 


2  years 

18 

4  7 

8  37 

3  years 

24 

13  14 

18  106 

4  years 

14 

11  12 

15  52 

5  years 

6 

8  6 

14  34 

>6  years 

2 

1  1 

1  5 

Table  3.  Mean  fruit  and  seed  set  in  20  plants  from  each  of  four  different  populations.  Means  with  same 

letter  are  not  significantly  different  at  p 

=  0.05,  df  =  19,  respectively  (unplanned  comparisons,  Sokal  and 

Rohlf  1981). 

Site 

Year 

Mean  Fruit  Set  ±  SD 

Mean  Seed  Set  1  SD 

Buffalo 

1986 

0.63^  +  0.27 

I.4A  11.7 

1989 

0.69^10.28 

I9AB 

Dumont  W 

1985 

0.79^  +  0.19 

2.6  11.9 

1987 

0.91^10.15 

3.3^11.8 

IXimont  S 

1986 

0.83^10.17 

2.1  11.4 

1989 

0.81^10.20 

2.5^11.7 

Walton 

1985 

0.79^10.25 

2.5^11.7 

1987 

0.91^10.19 

2.9^11.6 

Table  4.  Recruitment  of  seedlings  from  the  seedbank,  calculated  as  a  proportion  of  total  number  observed 
over  6  years  in  (A)  each  of  four  plots  from  which  reproductive  plants  were  removed  and  (B)  each  of  four 
undisturbed  plots. 


Buffalo 

Ehamont  S 

Dumont  W 

Walton 

Year 

A*  B 

A*  B 

A  B 

A*  B** 

1985 

0.434 

0.155 

0.477 

0.166 

0.356 

0.117 

0.655 

0.154 

1986 

0.270 

0.044 

0.300 

0.196 

0.136 

0.227 

0.209 

0.189 

1987 

0.113 

0.108 

0.123 

0.226 

0.271 

0.252 

0.044 

0.098 

1988 

0.126 

0.279 

0.041 

0.052 

0.085 

0.039 

0.069 

0.229 

1989 

0.050 

0.124 

0.033 

0.072 

0.152 

0.099 

0.022 

0.193 

1990 

0.006 

0.289 

0.025 

0.287 

0.000 

0.265 

0.000 

0.136 

Total  Seedlings: 

159 

315 

243 

362 

59 

453 

229 

440 

*  Spearman's  Rank  Coefficient  of  Correlation  (proportion  by  year)  in  removed  plots  significant  at  p  =  0.05  (df  =  5). 

Goodness  of  Fit  test  with  expectation  of  uniform  recruitment  per  year  significant  at  p  =  0.05  (df  =  5). 


16 


Table  5.  Relationship  between  cover  and  mean  number  of  reproductive  plants  at  four  sites.  Mean  cover 
estimated  from  eight  1  m^  quadrats  outside  and  within  populations  along  a  100  m  belt  transect  at  inter- 
vals of  6  m;  r^  =  variance  in  number  of  reproductive  plants  per  quadrat  explained  by  cover. 


Mean  Cover 

Mean  Cover 

Number  of 

Outside 

Within 

Reproductive 

Site 

Population 

Population 

Plants  per  m^ 

r2 

Buffalo 

87.2  ±  16.6 

36.6  ±20.6 

1.0  ±1.1 

0.251 

EXimont  S 

79.6  ±22.9 

49.7  ±28.4 

0.8  ±1.1 

0.381 

Dumont  W 

66.6  ±  23.3 

41.5  ±29.1 

1.1  ±1.2 

0.467 

Walton 

77.0  ±  24.0 

48.4  ±29.8 

0.9  ±1.0 

0.497 

successive  seasons  through  the  first  2  years.  From 
58  to  92  percent  of  all  seedlings  died  by  the  end  of 
the  first  growing  season.  In  contrast,  probabilities 
of  survivorship  among  vegetative  rosettes  in- 
creased significantly  in  subsequent  years.  Rosettes 
surviving  the  first  summer  experienced  slightly 
less  survivorship  during  the  first  winter  (48.5- 
72%)  than  those  remaining  after  the  second  sum- 
mer (60-90.5%).  No  clear  patterns  of  survivorship 
were  found  among  sites.  For  example,  probabili- 
ties of  surviving  the  second  summer  and  second 
winter  were  significantly  greater  at  Dumont  W  (an 
east-facing  slope)  than  at  Dumont  W  (flat  terrain), 
but  were  not  different  from  that  at  Walton,  a 
population  also  located  in  flat  terrain  and  at  a 
similar  elevation.  Most  seedlings  were  recruited 
during  the  late  spring,  shortly  after  snow  melt, 
and  seedling  recruitment  was  not  observed  during 
the  summer  months.  The  geographic  distribution 
of  ssp.  weberi  is  characterized  by  heavy  winter 
snow  accumulations,  early  summer  droughts,  and 
variability  in  summer  rainfall  derived  from 
sporadic,  localized  storms  (Siemer  1977,  Dix  1974). 
Thus,  it  seems  likely  that  seedling  recruitment  at 
aU  sites  generally  results  from  availability  of  mois- 
ture following  snow  melt  rather  than  summer 
rainfall,  and  is  followed  by  high  mortality  result- 
ing from  early  summer  drought. 

Subspecies  weberi  appears  to  be  an  obligate 
monocarp,  living  2-5+  years  before  flowering  and 
fruiting  (Figure  1).  Monocarpy  (semelparity)  has 
been  reported  for  7.  aggregata  ssp.  aggregata  with 
age  at  reproduction  ranging  from  2  to  7  years 
(Hainsworth  et  al.  1984).  In  contrast,  iteroparity 
was  reported  in  some  populations  of  7.  aggregata 
ssp.  formosissima  (Paige  and  Whitham  1987)  as  a 


response  to  reduced  levels  of  pollinators  and  polli- 
nation (<  30-40%  fruit  set).  If  a  similar  mechanism 
operates  in  ssp.  weberi,  it  would  not  have  been 
detected,  because  fruit  set  did  not,  on  average,  fall 
below  63  percent  in  this  study.  Plants  of  all  sub- 
species of  7.  aggregata  grown  in  an  experimental 
garden,  subject  to  regular  watering,  a  longer 
growing  season,  and  one  winter's  dormancy, 
generally  flowered  and  died  within  18  months 
following  germination  (Wilken,  unpublished 
data).  These  studies  collectively  suggest  that  both 


IGOGh 

9GG- 

8GG- 

w 

7GG- 

c 

CO 

6GG- 

a. 

*o 
k_ 

5GG- 

<D 

E 

4GG- 

2 

30G- 

20G- 

1GG- 

w-i  1  1  1  T"  1 

G        12      24      36      48       60  72 

Months 

Figure  1.  Average  survivorship  in  Ipomopsis  aggregata 
ssp.  zveberi.  Data  from  1985  and  1986  cohorts  combined 
to  show  survivorship  of  a  hypothetical  cohort  of  1000 
seedlings. 


17 


age  at  time  of  reproduction  and  the  balance  be- 
tween semelparity  and  iteroparity  may  be  related 
ultimately  to  accumulated  energy  reserves,  as  has 
been  suggested  for  other  monocarps  (Werner  1975, 
Gross  1981,  Hirose  and  Kachi  1982,  Klemow  and 
Raynal  1985,  Reinartz  1984). 

Cover  explained  less  variance  in  number  of 
seedlings  (16.9%)  than  variance  in  number  of 
reproductive  plants  (25.1-52.8%).  The  unexplained 
variance  in  the  former  may  depend  on  a  number 
of  factors,  including  density  of  reproductive  plants 
in  preceding  years,  emigration  or  immigration  of 
seeds,  and  density  of  seeds  in  the  soil.  In  contrast, 
density  of  reproductive  plants  may  be  more  close- 
ly related  to  available  space,  competitive  effects  of 
neighboring  plants,  and  other  factors  influencing 
growth  of  rosettes.  In  general,  populations  of  spp. 
weberi  appear  adapted  to  sites  with  less  than  50 
percent  cover  and  are  excluded  from  adjacent  sites 
with  greater  than  65  percent  cover. 

Although  no  attempts  were  made  to  estimate 
densities  and  longevity  of  viable  seeds  in  soil 
samples  of  natural  populations,  observations  of 
seedling  recruitment  in  this  study  suggest  that 
seed  banks  may  become  depleted  after  5  years. 
Furthermore,  more  than  50  percent  of  observed 
seedlings  appeared  in  the  first  2  years.  Overall,  the 
average  reproductive  plant  was  about  35  cm  tall 
with  12  lateral  inflorescences  per  shoot  and  about 
75  flowers.  The  product  of  estimates  for  mean 
reproductive  plant  density  (1.2-2.3  per  year)  x  75 
flowers  per  plant  x  overall  mean  fruit  set  (0.795)  x 
mean  fruit  set  (0.63-0.91)  x  mean  seed  set  (1.4-3.3) 
suggests  that,  on  average,  79  to  518  seeds  may  fall 
within  an  area  of  1  m^.  The  predicted  numbers 
exceed  the  total  number  of  seedlings  recruited 
from  1  m^  plots  from  which  seed  sources  were 
removed  (59  to  440,  mean  =  282.5,  Table  4).  These 
data  collectively  suggest  that  relationships  among 
rates  of  survivorship,  density  of  reproductive 
plants,  and  reproductive  capacity  contribute  to 
short-term  stability  of  established  populations. 
However,  the  establishment  and  long-term  sta- 
bility of  populations  appear  related  to  reduced 
competition  and  continued  availability  of  open 
sites  within  the  regional  subalpine  forest. 


Literature  Cited 

Dix,  R.L.  1974.  Regional  ecological  systems  of  Colorado. 
In  P.O.  Foss,  editor.  Environment  and  Colorado:  A 
Handbook,  pp.  7-17.  Environmental  Resources  Cen- 
-ter,  Colorado  State  University,  Ft.  Collins. 

Grant,  V.  and  D.  Wilken.  1986.  Taxonomy  of  the  Ipomop- 
sis  aggregata  group  (Polemoniaceae).  Botanical  Ga- 
zette 147:359-371. 

Gross,  K.L.  1981.  Predictions  of  fate  from  rosette  size  in 
four  "biennial"  plant  species:  Verbascum  thapsus, 
OenotJiera  biennis,  Daucus  carota,  and  Tragopogon 
dubius.  Oecologia  48:209-213. 

Hainsworth,  F.R.,  L.L.  Wolf,  and  T.  Mercier.  1985.  Pollen 
limitation  in  a  monocarpic  species,  Ipomopsis  aggre- 
gata. Journal  of  Ecology  73:263-270. 

Hirose,  T.  and  N.  Kachi.  1982.  Critical  plant  size  for 
flowering  in  biennials  with  special  reference  to  their 
distribution  in  a  sand  dune  system.  Oecologia 
55:281-284. 

Klemow  ,  K.M.  and  D.J.  Raynal.  1985.  Demography  of 
two  facultative  biennial  plant  species  in  an  unpro- 
ductive habitat.  Journal  of  Ecology  73:147-167. 

Menges,  E.S.  1991.  The  application  of  minimum  viable 
population  theory  to  plants.  In  D.A.  Falk  and  K.E. 
Holsinger.  Genetics  and  Conservation  of  Rare  Plants, 
pp.  45-61.  Oxford  University  Press,  New  York. 

Mueller-Dombois,  D.  and  H.  Ellenberg.  1974.  Aims  and 
methods  of  vegetation  ecology.  John  Wiley  and  Sons, 
New  York. 

Paige,  K.  and  T.  Whitham.  1987.  Flexible  life  history 
traits:  Shifts  by  Scarlet  Gilia  in  response  to  pollinator 
abundance.  Ecology  68:1691-1695. 

Reinartz,  J.A.  1984.  Life  history  variation  of  common 
mullein  (Verbascum  thapsus)  I.  Latitudinal  differences 
in  population  dynamics  and  timing  of  reproduction. 
Journal  of  Ecology  72:897-912. 

Siemer,  E.G.  1977.  Colorado  Climate.  Colorado  Experi- 
ment Station,  Colorado  State  University,  Ft.  Collins. 

Simberloff,  D.  1988.  The  contribution  of  population  and 
community  biology  to  conservation  science.  Annual 
Review  of  Ecology  and  Systematics  19:473-511. 

Sokal,  R.R.  and  F.J.  Rohlf.  1981.  Biometry.  Second  edi- 
tion. W.  H.  Freeman,  New  York. 

Waser,  N.M.  and  M.V.  Price.  1983.  Optimal  and  actual 
outcrossing  in  plants,  and  the  nature  of  plant- 
pollinator  interaction.  In  C.E.  Jones  and  R.J.  Little., 
Handbook  of  Experimental  Pollination  Biology,  pp. 
341-359.  John  Wiley  and  Sons,  New  York. 

Werner,  P. A.  1975.  Predictions  of  fate  from  rosette  size 
in  teasel.  Oecologia  20:197-201. 


18 


Demography  and  Monitoring  of  the  Autumn  Buttercup, 
Ranunculus  aestivalis  (Benson)  Van  Buren  &  Harper, 

South-Central  Utah 

JOHN  R.  S  PENCE 
Manzanita  BioStudies,  P.O.  Box  833,  Page,  AZ  86040 

Abstract:  The  results  are  presented  of  a  4-year  monitoring  program  on  the  autumn  buttercup. 
Ranunculus  aestivalis  (L.  Benson)  Van  Buren  &  Harper.  The  species  is  known  from  a  single 
location  in  the  wild,  the  Sevier  Valley  Preserve  in  south-central  Utah,  owned  and  managed  by 
The  Nature  Conservancy.  The  autumn  buttercup  is  a  short-lived  species  that  grows  in  a  wet 
saline  meadow  that  was  regularly  grazed  by  livestock  until  1988.  Several  small  patches  of 
different  ages  have  been  mapped  and  observed  since  1991.  The  size-age  structure  and  de- 
mography of  the  largest  flowering  patch  was  followed  from  1991  to  1994.  Flowering  plants  in 
this  patch  declined  steadily  from  a  high  of  39  in  1991  to  6  in  1994.  Numbers  of  juveniles  first 
increased,  reaching  a  high  of  104  in  1993,  and  then  dropped  slightly  in  1994.  Numbers  of 
seedlings  increased  dramatically,  from  94  in  1991  to  664  in  1992,  but  subsequently  declined. 
Transitions  of  juveniles  to  flowering  adults  declined  steadily  throughout  this  period.  After  an 
initial  large  input  of  achenes  into  the  soil  in  1991  and  1992,  reproductive  output  (achenes/ 
plant)  declined  to  a  value  of  less  than  1  percent  of  1991  estimates.  The  species  appears  to  be 
going  extinct  at  the  site.  The  most  likely  reason  for  the  decline  in  fecundity  and  recruitment  is 
the  absence  of  disturbance,  which  the  autumn  buttercup  apparently  needs  in  order  to  flower. 
Deliberately  introduced  disturbances  are  probably  required  to  maintain  the  species  in  the 
wild. 


Introduction 

The  autumn  buttercup.  Ranunculus  aestivalis 
(Benson)  Van  Buren  &  Harper,  is  a  relatively 
short-lived  perennial.  It  has  had  a  long  and  con- 
fused taxonomic  history  since  it  was  first  collected 
in  1894  in  Garfield  County,  south-central  Utah. 
The  species  was  described  in  1948  by  Lyman 
Benson  as  a  variety  of  the  widespread  R.  acriformis 
L.  (Benson  1948).  In  subsequent  years,  the  species 
was  neglected.  During  inventory  work  in  the 
1970s,  following  passage  of  the  Endangered  Spe- 
cies Act,  the  autumn  buttercup  could  not  be 
relocated  at  the  type  locality  and  was  considered 
probably  extinct.  In  1982,  a  new  population  was 
discovered  on  private  property  about  a  kilometer 
distant  from  the  type  locality  by  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service  personnel.  Counts  done  between 
1983  and  1989  showed  an  alarming  decline,  from 
471  individuals  to  8  in  1985.  Subsequent  counts 
varied  between  8  and  22  at  the  site  (Spence  et  al. 
1992).  Because  of  the  taxon's  precarious  status,  it 
was  listed  as  endangered  on  July  21,  1989  (Smith  et 
al.  1989).  In  1988,  the  property  on  which  the 
autumn  buttercup  occurred  was  purchased  by  The 
Nature  Conservancy  and  was  named  the  Sevier 
Valley  Preserve.  In  1990,  a  second  population  of 
about  200  flowering  individuals  was  discovered 
on  the  preserve  (CaUister  and  Schelz  1990).  Subse- 


quent genetic  work  on  this  population  and  related 
species  indicated  that  the  autumn  buttercup  was 
quite  distinct  from  R.  acriformis  and  should  be 
treated  as  a  distinct  species  (Van  Buren  et  al.  1994). 

The  Great  Basin  Field  Office  of  The  Nature 
Conservancy  obtained  a  grant  from  the  Rodney 
Johnson  and  Katherine  Ordway  Stewardship 
Endowment  in  1991  to  establish  a  monitoring 
program  on  the  autumn  buttercup  at  the  Sevier 
Valley  Preserve.  The  principle  goals  of  the  autumn 
buttercup  monitoring  program  were  to  (1)  follow 
the  fate  of  individuals  over  time,  (2)  determine 
reproductive  capacity,  (3)  describe  the  vegetation 
and  associated  species,  and  (4)  determine  the  habi- 
tat requirements  of  the  species. 

Area  Description 

The  Sevier  Valley  Preserve  is  located  in  the 
valley  of  the  Sevier  River  about  15  km  north  of  the 
town  of  Panguitch.  The  preserve  consists  of  two 
geomorphic  units  with  distinct  vegetation  commu- 
nities: an  old  river  terrace  vegetated  by  big  sage- 
brush {Artemisia  tridentata  Nutt.)  and  greasewood 
{Sarcobatus  vermiculatus  (Hook.)  Torr.),  and  a  saline 
wet  meadow  complex  dominated  by  wiregrass 
(Juncus  arcticus  Willd.),  sea  milkwort  {Glaux  mari- 
tima  L.),  and  Nebraska  sedge  {Carex  nebrascensis 
Dewey).  An  ecotonal  area  between  the  two 


19 


communities  is  dominated  by  saltgrass  {Distichlis 
spicata  (L.)  Greene),  broom  seep  weed  {Siiaeda 
calceoliformis  (Hook.)  Moq.)  and  scattered  grease - 
wood.  Patches  of  open  water  occur,  and  a  small 
artificial  pond  fed  by  a  spring  is  situated  to  the 
southeast  of  the  river  terrace.  Directly  east  of  this 
pond  is  the  locality  of  the  original  population 
discovered  in  1982. 

The  monitoring  work  was  conducted  at  the 
location  of  the  1990  population,  which  was  about 
200  m  northeast  of  the  pond  and  original  1982 
population.  The  elevation  at  this  site  was  about 
2025  m,  and  was  gently  sloping  (5°)  to  the  east 
towards  the  Sevier  River.  The  study  site  was  in  the 
lower  margins  of  the  ecotonal  area  and  the  higher 
and  drier  parts  of  the  wet  meadow.  The  topogra- 
phy was  highly  irregular,  with  numerous  scattered 
mounds.  Adult  buttercup  individuals  appeared  to 
be  concentrated  on  the  mound  tops  rather  than  in 
the  areas  between  mounds.  The  mound  topogra- 
phy was  probably  the  result  of  livestock  grazing, 
as  the  meadow  had  been  used  as  a  pasture  for 
horses  and  bulls.  The  duration  of  grazing  at  the 
Sevier  Valley  Preserve  is  unknown,  but  the  Pan- 
guitch  area  was  settled  in  the  1860s,  and  some 
grazing  has  probably  occurred  in  the  area  since 
that  time.  When  The  Nature  Conservancy  pur- 
chased the  property  in  1988,  livestock  grazing  was 
discontinued. 

The  climate  of  the  area  can  be  inferred  from 
data  for  Panguitch,  about  15  km  to  the  south  at  an 
elevation  of  2015  m.  The  climate  is  semi-arid,  with 
cold  dry  winters  and  moderately  warm  summers. 
Mean  annual  temperature  at  Panguitch  is  6.8°C 
Qanuary  mean  -4.4°;  July  mean  18.7°),  while  mean 
armual  precipitation  is  262  mm,  of  which  about  65 
percent  falls  as  summer  thunderstorms  during  the 
period  July-September.  Mean  annual  snowfall  is 
480  mm  (1948-1992  data;  Ashcroft  et  al.  1992). 

Methods  and  Materials 

Permanent  plots  were  established  around 
patches  of  the  autumn  buttercup.  In  the  largest 
patch  (1990  population),  individuals  were  marked 
with  flagged  wooden  stakes  and  mapped.  Individ- 
uals were  classified  into  three  life  stages:  seedlings 
(current  year),  juveniles  (older  nonflowering 
plants),  and  adults  (flowering  plants).  All  ob- 
served adults  either  flowered  or  attempted  to 
flower  every  year.  Significant  distinctions  occurred 
between  seedlings  and  juveniles  in  leaf  size  and 
shape.  Occasionally  seedlings  that  germinated 
early  in  the  season  put  out  juvenile-type  foliage  in 


late  summer;  hence,  counts  of  the  three  stages 
were  made  in  the  middle  of  summer  (July  and 
early  August)  to  avoid  over-counting  juveniles. 
Plant  variables  recorded  for  juveniles  and  adults 
included  number  of  leaves,  length  of  longest  leaf, 
diameter  of  leaf  clump,  height  of  tallest  inflores- 
cence, number  of  inflorescences  and  flowers, 
microsite  position,  signs  of  herbivory,  and  asso- 
ciated species.  For  seedlings  the  distance  to  the 
nearest  adult  and  the  microsite  position  were 
recorded.  Microsite  position  was  scored  as  moimd 
top,  side  of  mound,  base  of  mound,  between  two 
mounds,  or  in  flat  areas  away  from  mounds.  Asso- 
ciated species  were  determined  by  recording  the 
closest  or  most  common  species  to  each  buttercup 
individual  in  each  of  the  four  main  compass  direc- 
tions (N,  S,  E,  W).  In  each  year  except  1993  fruit  set 
was  recorded  from  10  different  adults  by  counting 
the  number  of  mature  achenes  and  aborted  or 
shriveled  achenes.  Reproductive  output  was 
recorded  as  achenes  per  adult  by  multiplying  the 
mean  yearly  fruit  set  for  the  population  by  the 
number  of  flowers  per  adult.  In  1993,  inflores- 
cences of  all  adult  plants  had  been  broken  off  or 
badly  damaged  by  an  unknown  agent,  possibly  by 
either  grazing  rodents  or  lagomorphs,  or  excep- 
tionally strong  winds. 

Three  25  m  long  permanent  transects  were 
located  from  the  eastern  margin  of  the  ecotonal 
saltgrass  vegetation  east  into  the  wet  meadow.  All 
transects  occurred  near  buttercup  individuals  and 
two  were  directly  adjacent  to  buttercup  patches. 
Along  each  transect,  a  50  cm  x  25  cm  quadrat  was 
positioned  directly  over  the  tape  measure  at  1  m 
intervals  from  0-24  m.  Cover  of  all  species  rooted 
inside  the  plot,  as  well  as  overlying  the  plot,  was 
estimated  visually  using  the  Daubenmire  scale 
(Daubenmire  1968).  Mean  cover  estimates  for  each 
species  were  determined  from  the  midpoints  of 
each  Daubenmire  class.  Frequency  was  recorded 
for  all  species  rooted  in  the  quadrat  in  three  nested 
subquadrats  using  the  method  of  Smith  et  al. 
(1987).  Transects  were  read  in  September  of  1991 
and  August  of  1995.  Nomenclature  of  plant  species 
follows  Welsh  et  al.  (1993). 

Permanent  photographic  points  were  estab- 
lished at  six  locations,  near  the  three  largest 
patches  of  buttercups,  and  directly  west  of  the 
beginning  of  each  vegetation  transect. 

Results 

In  a  typical  year,  autumn  buttercup  individ- 
uals begin  to  produce  leaves  in  spring,  generally  in 


20 


21 


Overwinter  survival  of  adults  varied  from  a  low  of 
20  percent  in  1993-94  to  a  high  of  67  percent  in 
1992-93. 

Patch  B  declined  rapidly  to  0  in  1993,  while 
patch  C  was  reduced  to  a  few  adults  in  1994.  Patch 
D,  despite  having  large  numbers  of  seedlings  in 
1991,  and  juveniles  in  1992  and  1993,  produced 
only  two  flowering  plants  over  the  4  years.  By 
1994,  only  about  80  juveniles  survived,  with  no 
signs  of  flowering.  In  1995,  patches  C  and  D  were 
checked  again.  Each  had  only  a  single  adult  pre- 
sent. By  1995,  most  of  patch  C  had  been  over- 
topped by  Scotch  thistle,  Onopordum  acanthium  L. 

Adults  in  patch  A  were  significantly  larger 
than  juveniles,  indicating  some  threshold  size  be- 
fore plants  flower.  Adults  produced  significantly 
more  leaves  than  juveniles  (Student's  T  =  4.8,  df  = 
11,  p  =  0.0006),  and  had  wider  rosettes  (Student's 
T  =  4.7,  df  =  11,  p  =  0.0006).  Reproductive  output 
(estimated  numbers  of  achenes)  for  patch  A  was 
initially  high  at  26,639  (Table  1).  In  1992,  this 
output  declined  to  10,674.  Fruit  set  could  not  be 
estimated  in  1993  because  all  inflorescences  had 
been  damaged  or  destroyed.  In  1994,  flowering 
and  fruiting  were  very  low  compared  to  1991-92. 
Average  number  of  flowers  per  plant  was  only  3.5, 
with  estimated  achene  production  of  only  395.  For 
1991,  plant  fecundity  (number  of  flowers)  was 
strongly  correlated  with  number  of  leaves.  A 
linear  regression  of  number  of  flowers  per  plant 
against  number  of  leaves  per  plant  showed: 

Flower  Number  =  -15.8  +  2.7  *  Leaf  Number 

with  an  adjusted  of  0.582.  The  slope  of  the  line 
was  significantly  different  from  zero  (F  =  69.3,  df  = 
48,  p  <  0.0001).  The  only  other  variable  that 
showed  a  strong  correlation  with  flower  number 

Table  1.  Numbers  of  autumn  buttercup  individuals  in  four  patches  at  the  Sevier  Valley  Preserve  between 
1991  and  1994  by  size-age  class  (S  =  seedlings,  J  =  juveniles,  A  =  adults).  See  methods  and  materials  for 
definitions  of  size-age  classes.  Reproductive  output  (RO)  for  patch  A  is  estimated  total  achene  production 
per  year. 


Patch* 

1991 

1992 

1993 

1994 

S 

J 

A 

S 

J 

A 

s 

J 

A 

S 

J 

A 

A 

94 

16 

39 

664 

13 

18 

575 

104 

15 

113 

76 

6 

RO 

26,639 

10,674 

? 

395 

B 

1 

3 

2 

0 

1 

0 

C 

27 

7 

3 

12 

11 

1 

0 

12 

1 

0 

2 

5 

D 

200 

79 

1 

100 

200 

0 

0 

127 

1 

0 

80 

0 

*Patch  area  sizes  were:  A  =  42  m^,  B  =  1  m^,  C  =  4  m^,  and  D  =  30  m^. 


early  or  middle  May.  The  first  flowers  tend  to 
open  in  late  June,  and  flowering  is  heaviest  in  July 
and  August.  Achenes  begin  to  mature  in  July  and 
continue  to  mature  through  August  and  Septem- 
ber. Dispersal  of  green  achenes  often  occurs,  with 
peak  dispersal  in  August  and  early  September. 
Leaf  senescence  first  appears  in  September  and  all 
aboveground  parts  have  died  by  late  October  or 
early  November. 

Initial  searches  in  1991  revealed  that  the 
autumn  buttercup  population  occurred  as  a  series 
of  discrete  patches  within  an  area  of  about  1000 
m^.  Four  patches  were  found,  including  the  large 
group  of  flowering  plants  first  found  in  1990 
(group  A  in  Table  1).  Table  1  summarizes  size-age 
class  numbers  for  1991-1994  for  these  four 
patches,  labeled  A-D,  estimated  fruit  set  for  patch 
A,  and  areal  extent  of  patches.  In  addition  to  these 
four  patches,  a  few  scattered  seedlings  were  ob- 
served within  the  1000  m^  area  in  1991  and  1992. 
By  1994,  all  these  plants  had  died. 

The  demographic  work  was  done  primarily  in 
patch  A.  Initially,  149  plants  were  counted  and 
marked  in  this  patch  in  1991.  In  1992,  a  large 
number  of  seedlings  appeared  following  heavy 
flowering  in  1991,  while  numbers  of  juveniles  and 
adults  declined.  In  1993,  the  number  of  juveniles 
increased,  while  numbers  of  adults  declined 
slightly.  By  1994,  adults  had  declined  to  six,  while 
numbers  of  seedlings  and  juveniles  had  also 
dropped  (Figure  1).  Table  2  summarizes  over- 
wintering survival  of  adults  and  transition  states 
for  seedlings  to  juveniles,  and  juveniles  to  adults, 
for  the  period  1991-1994.  The  seedling  to  juvenile 
transition  was  fairly  similar  over  the  three  winters, 
but  the  juvenile  to  adult  transition  declined  from 
37  percent  in  1991-92  to  3  percent  in  1993-94. 


22 


Table  2.  Transition  states  and  overwintering  survivor- 
ship for  three  size-age  classes  of  autumn  buttercups  in 
patch  A.  For  seedlings  and  juveniles  the  proportion  of 
individuals  moving  into  the  next  size-age  class  is 
shown,  while  for  adults  overwintering  survivorship  is 
shown. 


Period 

Size- Age  Class 

1991-92 

1992-93 

1993-94 

Adults 

0.24 

0.67 

0.20 

Juveniles 

0.37 

0.23 

0.03 

Seedlings 

0.14 

0.16 

0.13 

was  rosette  diameter,  but  it  was  weaker  than  leaf 
number  and  the  two  leaf  variables  were  strongly 
correlated.  An  analysis  of  the  residuals  from  the 
above  equation  showed  no  significant  relation- 
ships with  any  other  plant  variable. 

Microsite  position  was  determined  for  the  280 
plants  in  patch  D,  which  displayed  the  most  dis- 
tinct mound  topography.  There  was  a  significant 
interaction  between  microsite  and  juvenile  and 
seedling  size-age  classes  (X^  =  17.2,  df  =  4,  p  < 
0.001).  Juveniles  were  strongly  associated  with 
mounds,  with  89  percent  on  mound  tops,  sides,  or 
at  the  bases,  or  between  two  adjacent  mounds.  In 
contrast,  seedlings  showed  a  more  even  distribu- 
tion among  the  five  microsites,  with  27.5  percent 
not  associated  with  mounds  at  all  (Figure  2). 

The  nearest  neighbors  of  autumn  buttercup 
individuals  are  shown  in  Table  3.  All  adults  and 
juveniles  in  patches  A  and  B  were  used  (60  plants). 
Of  the  240  nearest  neighbors,  Sisyrinchium  demis- 
sum  Greene  was  most  common,  with  a  count  of  48. 
Other  common  species  included  Juncus  arcticus 
(43),  other  autumn  buttercups  (39),  Muhlenbergia 
asperifolia  (Nees  &  Mey.)  Parodi  (38),  Plantago 
eriopoda  Torr.  (16),  and  Haplopappus  lanceolatus 
(Hook.)  T.  &  G.  (13).  Ten  other  species  also  oc- 
curred next  to  buttercup  plants. 

Table  4  summarizes  the  transect  vegetation 
cover  data  for  1991  and  1995.  Significant  changes 
in  cover  occurred  for  all  species  or  groups  noted  in 
this  table  except  Juncus  arcticus .  Declines  were  seen 
in  bare  ground,  gopher  activity  (mounds),  Glaux 
maritima,  other  native  dicot  forbs,  Distichlis  spicata, 
and  Carex  nebrascensis .  Increases  occurred  in  Juncus 
arcticus,  other  monocot  species  (mostly  Carex 
canescens  L.),  other  grasses,  and  especially  exotics. 
Major  increases  occurred  with  most  exotic  species, 
especially  in  Scotch  thistle,  Onopordum  acanthium. 
All  species  found  in  1991  were  still  present  along 
the  transects  in  1995,  although  Iris  missouriensis 


Table  3.  Species  associated  as  nearest  neighbors  in  1991 
with  each  of  60  adult  and  juvenile  autumn  buttercups 
from  patches  A  and  B.  The  four  nearest  species  (largest 
if  two  species  were  equally  near)  in  each  of  the  four  car- 
dinal compass  bearings  were  recorded. 


Species 

Occurrences 

Percent  of  Total 

Sisyrinchium  demissum 

48 

20 

Juncus  arcticus 

43 

18 

Ranunculus  aestivalis 

39 

16 

Muhlenbergia  asperifolia 

38 

16 

Plotjtovn  prinnndo 

16 

7 

Haplopappus  lanceolatus 

13 

5 

Distichlis  spicata 

9 

4 

Glaux  maritima 

7 

3 

Carex  canescens 

5 

2 

Ranunculus  cymbalaria 

5 

2 

Dodecatheon  pulchellum 

3 

<1 

Onopordum  acanthium 

2 

<1 

Elymus  trachycaulis 

2 

<1 

Hordeum  jubatum 

2 

<1 

Carex  nebrascensis 

1 

<1 

Iris  missouriensis 

1 

<1 

Table  4.  Summary  percent  cover  estimates  for  species  or 
groups  of  species,  bare  ground,  and  pocket  gopher 
activity  at  the  Sevier  Valley  Preserve,  based  on  three  25- 
meter  transects  and  seventy-five  20  cm  x  50  cm  quad- 
rats. For  all  species  or  groups  except  Juncus  arcticus  and 
total  cover,  the  differences  between  years  was  significant 
at  the  0.05  level  (Student's  T-test). 


Year 


1991 

1995 

Bare  Ground 

24 

0.6 

Pocket  Gopher  Activity 

1.4 

02 

Juncus  arcticus 

27.9 

30.3 

Carex  nebrascensis 

5.0 

0.7 

Other  Native  Sedges  and  Rushes 

7.6 

15.4 

Glaux  maritima 

14.7 

5.0 

Other  Native  Dicot  Forbs 

14.0 

5.1 

Distichlis  spicata 

11.5 

55 

Other  Grass  Species 

22 

45 

Onopordum  acanthium 

<0.1 

5.4 

Other  Exotic  Species 

02 

6.4 

Total  Mean  Vegetation  Cover 

83.2 

80.2 

Total  Native  Species  Along  Transects 

16 

17 

Total  Exotic  Species  Along  Transects 

3 

6 

1991 

1995 

Five  Most                Juncus  arcticus 

/.  arcticus 

Common  Species       Glaux  maritima 

C.  canescens 

Along  Transects        Distichlis  spicata 

D.  spicata 

Haploppaus  lanceolatus 

Onopordum  acanthii 

Carex  canescens 

G.  maritima 

23 


24 


Nutt.  was  not  found  in  a  quadrat  in  1995.  Several 
additional  species  appeared  between  1991  and 
1995,  including  Epilobhim  hornernannii  Reichenb., 
Poa  secunda  PresL,  Descurainia  sophia  (L.)  Webb  ex 
Prantl,  Chenopodium  album  L.,  Lactuca  sp.,  and 
Scirpus  piingens  Vahl.  Total  cover  declined  be- 
tween 1991  and  1995  along  transects  2  and  3,  while 
it  increased  along  transect  1. 

Autumn  buttercup  flowers  are  visited  by  a 
variety  of  insects,  including  species  of  Diptera, 
Lepidoptera,  and  Hymenoptera.  Members  of 
seven  families  were  observed  visiting  flowers  in 

1991.  Fruit  set  was  very  high  at  90  percent  (Kim- 
ball Harper,  personal  communication  1991)  and  88 
percent  (1992;  N  =  20  flowers),  within  the  range  for 
selfers.  The  species  appears  to  be  either  self- 
compatible  or  apomictic,  as  caged  plants  had  high 
fruit  set  (R.  Fritts,  personal  communication  1991). 
Mean  fruit  set  per  flower  (N  =  20  flowers)  for  3 
years  in  which  data  were  obtained  was  23.8  (1991), 
19.7  (1992),  and  18.8  (1994). 

Extensive  disturbance  of  vegetation  and  soil 
occurred  in  1991  and  1992  in  the  vicinity  of  patch 
A,  most  of  which  resulted  from  burrowing  activi- 
ties of  pocket  gophers  {Thomomys  sp.).  Of  the  39 
adults  in  this  patch  in  1991,  five  (13%)  had  been 
buried  and  killed  by  gopher  activity  by  the  1992 
census.  Gopher  activity  remained  high  through 

1992,  but  declined  sharply  in  1993  and  subsequent 
years.  By  1995,  gopher  activity  along  the  vegeta- 
tion transects  was  only  25  percent  of  1991  levels.  In 
addition  to  burial,  adult  and  juvenile  buttercup 
plants  were  also  grazed,  with  both  leaves  and 
inflorescences  removed.  Grazing  was  most  intense 
on  adults.  The  herbivores  were  not  identified,  but 
were  probably  either  lagomorphs  and/ or  rodents, 
such  as  pocket  gophers.  Overall  grazing  activity 
was  low  in  1991,  but  increased  on  individual 
plants  in  subsequent  years  as  numbers  of  adults 
declined. 

Discussion 

The  autumn  buttercup  is  in  section  Chrysanthe 
of  the  genus.  Several  species  of  the  section  that 
have  been  investigated  are  short  lived  and  repro- 
duce mostly  by  seed.  For  example,  Harper  (1977) 
noted  that  JR.  acris  has  a  half-life  of  65-196  weeks. 
High  turnover  of  individuals  in  populations  was 
noted,  although  mortality  declined  with  increasing 
age  (Sarukhan  1974).  Heavy  seedling  mortality 
was  characteristic  of  this  species.  Occasionally,  R. 
acris  populations  lacked  an  above-ground  compo- 
nent and  persisted  at  the  site  via  a  seed  bank.  Most 
species  investigated  occur  in  meadows  and  other 


habitats  that  are  disturbed  often. 

The  available  evidence  suggests  that  R.  aesti- 
valis is  similar  to  other  investigated  species  in 
section  Chrysanthe.  All  adults  tagged  in  1991  had 
died  by  1995,  with  most  mortality  in  the  1991/92 
winter.  The  species  appears  to  favor  disturbed 
sites,  as  it  had  persisted  in  the  wet  meadow  com- 
plex despite  the  disturbaiice  imposed  by  livestock 
activity.  Seedling  mortality  was  high  at  84-86 
percent.  With  the  decline  in  flowering  and  seed 
production,  decreases  were  also  noted  in  the 
appearemce  of  new  seedlings,  suggesting  that  the 
seed  bank  was  probably  transitory. 

Two  hypotheses  can  explain  the  decline  in  the 
population  of  autumn  buttercups.  The  meadow 
appears  to  have  dried  out  somewhat  since  1991,  as 
indicated  by  declines  in  wetland  species  like  Carex 
nehrascensis  along  the  transects.  This  may  have 
increased  overwintering  mortality  in  adults  and 
reduced  growth  rates  of  juveniles  enough  that 
they  fail  to  reach  flowering  size.  However,  precipi- 
tation in  the  winter  and  spring  of  1992-93  was 
well  above  normal,  while  the  transition  of  juve- 
niles to  adults  actually  declined. 

Another  possible  reason  for  the  decHne  in  the 
population  is  the  absence  of  trampling  and  graz- 
ing disturbances  by  Livestock.  Ranunculus  aestivalis 
may  be  a  disturbance-adapted  species  and  may 
require  disturbances  that  break  up  vegetation  or 
disturb  the  soil.  In  the  absence  of  disturbance,  the 
species  may  be  out-competed  by  other  species 
such  as  Juncus  arcticus.  In  1991,  many  individuals 
in  patch  A  occurred  in  a  part  of  the  42  m^  area  that 
became  densely  overgrown  by  /.  arcticus  in  subse- 
quent years.  In  the  past,  livestock  grazing  and 
trampling  may  have  opened  up  the  rush-sedge 
sward,  allowing  buttercup  individuals  to  grow 
faster  and  become  large  enough  to  flower  and 
fruit.  Seedlings  did  not  show  any  significant  rela- 
tionships with  microsite  topography  caused  by 
livestock  trampling,  suggesting  that  germination 
and  establishment  were  not  favored  by  these 
disturbances. 

Between  1991  and  1995  a  major  increase  in  the 
cover  of  exotic  species  occurred  on  the  Sevier  Val- 
ley Preserve.  In  particular,  Onopordum  acanthium 
increased  more  than  10-fold  and  has  completely 
occupied  some  areas  where  autumn  buttercups 
originally  occurred.  This  species  poses  a  major 
threat  to  the  continued  survival  of  R.  aestivalis  and 
steps  will  need  to  be  taken  to  control  it  before  the 
species  dominates  the  preserve.  Other  species 
have  also  shown  major  increases,  including  Descu- 
rainia sophia  and  Hordeum  jubatum  L.  The  absence 


25 


of  livestock  grazing  may  be  one  reason  for  the 
increase  of  many  of  these  exotic  species. 

Because  of  the  short  life  span  of  adults,  and 
apparently  short-lived  seed  bank,  immediate  steps 
will  be  needed  to  prevent  the  autumn  buttercup 
from  going  extinct  at  the  Sevier  Valley  Preserve.  In 
the  spring  of  1995  Drs.  Harper  and  Van  Buren  of 
Brigham  Young  University  initiated  a  series  of 
clipping  and  disturbance  experiments  designed  to 
stimulate  flowering  and  to  determine  the  type  of 
disturbance  regime  necessary  to  maintain  a  viable 
population  of  the  species. 

Acknowledgments 

The  author  would  like  to  thank  the  Great 
Basin  Field  Office  of  The  Nature  Conservancy  and 
the  Rodney  Johnson  Stewardship  Endowment  for 
financial  support  during  this  project.  Many  thanks 
to  Ben  Franklin  for  help  in  the  field,  to  Nick  Van 
Pelt  for  his  support  and  encouragement,  and  to 
Kimball  Harper  and  Renee  Van  Buren  for  their 
interest  in  the  project. 

Literature  Cited 

Ashcroft,  G.L.,  D.T.  Jensen,  and  J.L.  Brown.  1992.  Utah 
Climate.  Utah  Climate  Center,  Utah  State  University, 
Logan.  125  pp. 


Benson,  L.  1948.  A  treatise  on  North  American  Ranun- 
culi. American  Midland  Naturalist  40:1-264. 

Callister,  DC  and  CD.  Schelz.  1990.  Element  steward 
abstract:  Ranunculus  acriformis  var.  acriformis.  Report 
to  The  Nature  Conservancy,  Great  Basin  Field  Office, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Daubenmire,  R.  1968.  Steppe  vegetation  of  Washington. 
Wash.  State  Uni.  Agr.  Expt.  Sta.  Tech.  Bull.  62. 

Smith,  F.J.,  K.D.  Heil,  and  J.M.  Porter.  1989.  Autumn 
buttercup.  Ranunculus  acriformis  A.  Gray  var.  aesti- 
valis L.  Benson  recovery  plan.  Unpublished  report  to 
the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Denver,  Colorado. 

Smith,  S.D.,  S.C.  Bunting,  and  M.  Hironaka.  1987.  Eval- 
uation of  the  improvement  in  sensitivity  of  nested 
frequency  plots  to  vegetational  change  by  summa- 
tion. Great  Basin  Naturalist  47:299-307. 

Spence,  J.R.,  N.S.  Van  Pelt,  and  M.A.  (Ben)  Franklin. 
1992.  Monitoring  of  a  very  rare  meadow  buttercup. 
Ranunculus  acriformis  var.  aestivalis  in  south-central 
Utah.  Natural  Areas  Journal  12:155-157. 

Van  Buren,  R.,  K.T.  Harper,  W.R.  Andersen,  D.J.  Stan- 
ton, S.  Seyoum,  and  J.L.  England.  1994.  Evaluating 
the  relationship  of  autumn  buttercup  {Ranunculus 
acriformis  var.  aestivalis)  to  some  close  congeners 
using  random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA.  Amer- 
ican Journal  of  Botany  81:514-519. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  N.D.  Atwood,  L.C.  Higgins,  and  S.  Good- 
rich. 1993.  A  Utah  Flora,  2nd  Ed.  Brigham  Young 
University  Press,  Provo,  Utah. 


26 


Results  of  an  Eleven- Year  Monitoring  Study  of  the  Endangered 

Pediocactus  peeblesianus  (Croizat)  L.D.  Benson  var.  peeblesianus 

BARBARA  GOODRICH  PHILLIPS ^  and  ARTHUR  M.  PHILLIPS,  III^ 

■^Coconino,  Kaibab,  and  Prescott  National  Forests,  2323  East  Greenlaw  Lane,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86004 
^Botanical  and  Environmental  Consulting,  P.O.  Box  201,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86002 

Abstract:  Peebles  Navajo  cactus  is  a  narrow  endemic  restricted  to  specialized  and  localized 
soils  in  Navajo  County,  Arizona.  It  was  listed  as  endangered  in  1979.  Four  monitoring  plots 
established  in  1985  and  1986  have  been  read  annually,  tracing  the  life  history  and  reproduc- 
tive success  of  several  hundred  plants.  Germination  events  have  occurred  only  every  few 
years  and  they  are  strongly  correlated  with  rainfall.  Growth  rates  are  slow  and  plants  do  not 
reproduce  until  they  are  more  than  8  years  old.  Heavy  rodent  predation  was  observed  during 
dry  years. 


Introduction 

This  paper  summarizes  studies  undertaken  on 
Peebles  Navajo  cactus  {Pediocactus  -peeblesianus 
(Croizat)  L.  D.  Benson  var.  -peehlesianus  )  between 
1985  and  1995.  Also  known  as  the  Navajo  plains 
cactus,  this  taxon  was  listed  as  endangered  by  the 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  (USFWS)  under  the 
Endangered  Species  Act  of  1973  on  November  28, 
1979  (44  FR  61922).  It  is  known  from  only  a  few 
small  populations  in  the  vicinity  of  Holbrook  and 
Joseph  City,  Navajo  County,  Arizona.  The  cactus 
is  apparently  limited  in  its  distribution  by  very 
narrow  ecological  requirements  that  are  only 
partially  understood.  Impacts  and  threats  to  the 
populations  include  plant  collection,  loss  and 
destruction  of  habitat  due  to  road  construction  and 
gravel  pits,  trampling  and  indirect  effects  of  graz- 
ing by  livestock,  rodent  predation,  and  other  biotic 
and  abiotic  stressors. 

A  recovery  plan,  prepared  by  the  Arizona 
plant  recovery  team  with  Barbara  G.  Phillips, 
Arthur  M.  Phillips,  III,  and  Mary  Butter  wick  as 
primary  authors,  was  approved  by  the  USFWS 
and  was  published  in  early  1984  (U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service  1984).  The  plan  listed  actions 
necessary  to  prevent  further  reduction  in  numbers 
of  the  cactus  and  to  stabilize  and  increase  its 
population  in  nature  to  the  point  at  which  it  is  no 
longer  in  danger  of  extinction. 

A  monitoring  program  had  been  established 
by  Mary  Butterwick  of  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Land 
Management  (BLM)  in  1980  at  Joseph  City,  re- 
cording a  total  of  166  plants  over  7  years.  In  the 
early  1980s,  77  individuals  (44%)  were  removed  or 
eliminated  from  her  plots.  Ten  mature  plants  were 
eaten  by  rabbits  or  rodents  in  1981;  causes  for 
other  losses  were  unknown  (Butterwick  1986,  M. 


Butterwick,  personal  communication).  This  dra- 
matic decrease  prompted  the  USFWS  to  fund 
establishment  of  an  expanded  monitoring  pro- 
gram in  1985. 

Initial  work  was  conducted  under  U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service  contracts  with  the  Museum  of 
Northern  Arizona.  Between  1990  and  1994,  we 
continued  monitoring  at  the  sites  without  funding. 
Studies  were  conducted  in  1995  with  Section  6 
funding  administered  by  the  Arizona  Department 
of  Agriculture.  Part  2  of  the  Peebles  Navajo  cactus 
recovery  plan  called  for  studies  of  populations  in 
their  natural  habitats  at  known  existing  sites.  Our 
field  studies,  from  1985  to  1989,  addressed  the 
following  recovery  actions:  (1)  monitor  popula- 
tions on  private  land  and  expand  the  monitoring 
program  on  BLM  lands  by  setting  up  additional 
permanent  plots  (Sections  119,  125,  131,  222),  and 
re-read  the  plots  in  April  in  successive  years;  (2) 
study  the  ecological  requirements  and  population 
biology  of  the  cactus  (Sections  21  and  22);  (3) 
identify  and  inventory  all  potential  habitat  for  the 
Peebles  Navajo  cactus  and  accurately  determine 
distribution  (Sec.  231,  24);  and  (4)  measure  micro- 
climatic conditions  at  sites  and  correlate  with 
National  Weather  Service  information  (Sec.  21). 

Methods 

Three  plots  were  established  in  1985,  two  in 
the  vicinity  of  the  long-term  BLM  plot  and  one  on 
private  land.  The  first  sites  were  chosen  to  provide 
independent  observations  of  a  healthy  dense 
population  near  the  site  where  a  5-year  record  had 
shown  a  serious  decline  in  numbers  and  overturn 
in  individuals.  The  other  site  (plot  4  in  this  paper) 
was  chosen  to  provide  data  on  a  population  on 
private  land  at  a  disjunct  location.  The  plot  was 


27 


established  in  a  less  favorable  habitat,  where  the 
plants  were  less  dense,  to  provide  comparative 
data  for  assessment  of  the  influence  of  habitat  on 
population  dynamics.  An  additional  plot  (called 
plot  3  in  this  paper)  was  established  in  1986  in  the 
same  general  vicinity  of  plots  1  and  2  but  approxi- 
mately 500  m  away. 

The  following  procedures  were  established  in 
1985:  plants  were  located  and  flagged  by  examin- 
ing 1-meter-wide  parallel  belt  transects  on  hands 
and  knees,  starting  at  the  perimeter  of  one  side  of 
the  plot.  Each  plant  was  assigned  coordinates 
within  its  square  meter  (e.g.,  33,  21  represents  dis- 
tance up  the  meter  tape,  distance  to  the  right  of  the 
tape,  within  each  square  meter).  A  galvanized 
roofing  nail  with  two  imprinted  letters  was  placed 
in  the  soil  2-5  cm  from  the  plant,  to  the  upper  left 
if  possible.  The  locations  of  the  plant  and  nail  were 
accurately  mapped  on  graph  paper.  Dimensions  of 
plots,  layout  of  transects,  compass  coordinates, 
and  distinctive  habitat  features  were  also  noted  on 
the  maps.  Unmarked  nails  were  placed  at  regular 
intervals  under  the  transect  lines  and  the  ends  of 
each  line  were  marked  and  photographed  to  aid  in 
exact  relocation  of  plots.  Overall  views  of  the  plots 
and  their  relationship  to  the  habitat  were  also 
photographed. 

Existing  plots  were  re-read  in  April  and  May 
of  successive  years.  Diameter  and  height  of  the 
plant  above  ground  surface  were  measured  to  the 
nearest  millimeter.  In  1989,  due  to  an  unusually 
early  flowering  season  (at  least  3  weeks  earlier 
than  normal),  most  plants  were  past  flowering  and 
fruit  development  had  begun  when  they  were  first 
visited.  Therefore,  only  one  spring  visit  per  site 
was  made  in  1989.  In  most  cases,  fruit  set  was 
recorded  and  flower  number  was  extrapolated. 

In  the  late  summer  of  1987,  we  discovered  the 
germination  of  many  seedlings  in  the  plots  and 
did  a  complete  re-inventory  of  the  plots  in  Novem- 
ber after  all  the  fall  germinants  appeared  to  be 
present.  The  locations  of  isolated  germinants  were 
marked  on  the  maps  and  drawings  were  made  of 
their  positions  where  they  were  close  to  the  adult 
parent.  An  intensive  re-survey  for  seedlings  was 
conducted  in  spring  1988.  Code  names  were 
assigned  to  the  surviving  seedlings  of  the  fall  1987 
cohort  germinants. 

The  monitoring  plots  were  re-read  in  the 
springs  of  1990-1995.  Plot  4  was  not  read  in  1991 
and  1994  due  to  time  constraints. 


Soils/Mycorrhizae 

Soil  Conservation  Service  scientists  conducted 
field  analyses  of  soil  profiles  on  April  30,  1985 
from  test  pits  located  within  plots  1-3  (without 
disturbing  any  plants),  and  provided  information 
regarding  the  soil  associations  of  the  area  in 
general.  At  each  level  the  soil  was  characterized  in 
terms  of  soil  association,  texture  (gravel,  sand,  silt, 
clay,  loam),  cementing  agents,  permeability  and 
water  availability,  gypsum  content,  and  bedrock 
source.  Four  profiles  were  immediately  adjacent  to 
dense  populations;  three  were  in  habitats  where 
the  cactus  does  not  grow. 

Four  soil  pits  were  dug  in  September  1985  to 
bedrock  with  a  hand  trowel  to  provide  soil  for 
microelement  analysis.  Each  pit  was  400  cm 
square.  Rocks  of  the  gravel  lag  surface  were  care- 
fully removed  and  set  aside  on  a  plastic  garbage 
bag.  A  pint  of  soil  was  removed  at  each  level  and 
placed  in  a  paper  bag  to  air  dry.  The  bag  was 
labeled  with  site  name,  pit  designation,  level  of 
collection,  and  date.  The  profile  in  each  pit  was 
photographed  and  notations  were  made  regarding 
the  profile.  Excess  soil  was  placed  on  the  garbage 
bag,  then  placed  back  in  the  pit  and  the  surface 
rocks  were  carefully  replaced  so  that  disturbance 
to  the  site  was  minimal. 

Analysis  procedures  were  run  at  the  Soils, 
Water  and  Plant  Tissue  Testing  Laboratory, 
University  of  Arizona,  Tucson.  Routine  analysis 
included  pH,  electrical  conductivity  (EC),  soluble 
salts,  Na,  K,  exchangeable  sodium  percentage 
(ESP),  N,  P,  Ca,  Mg;  plus  Mn,  Fe,  Zn,  Cu,  SO 4,  S, 
boron,  and  total  gypsum  followed  McCreary  and 
Pucker  (1983).  In  1986,  additional  soil  samples 
were  collected  by  the  Transition  Zone  Horticul- 
tural Institute  and  analyses  for  organic  matter, 
cation  exchange  capacity,  available  N,  P,  NH4NO3, 
exchangeable  Ca,  Mg,  K,  SO 4,  and  chloride  were 
performed  at  Northern  Arizona  University. 

One  Peebles  Navajo  cactus  was  collected 
under  permit  from  USFWS  to  J.  MiLne.  Care  was 
taken  to  remove  the  plant  with  sufficient  soil  so 
that  the  fine  feeder  roots  were  not  disturbed,  and 
the  plastic  bag  containing  the  specimen  was 
placed  in  a  plastic  dishpan  filled  with  moist  peat 
moss  to  keep  the  roots  alive  during  transport  to 
Flagstaff.  A  procedure  for  clearing  roots  and 
staining  for  vesicular-arbuscular  mycorrhizal 
fungi  (Phillips  and  Hayman  1970)  was  modified 
slightly  (Phillips  et  al.  1985).  Specimens  were 
mounted  on  microscope  slides  and  observed. 


28 


Climate/Microclimate 

Weather  conditions  are  important  influences 
on  the  cacti  during  all  seasons  (influencing  retrac- 
tion of  plants  into  the  soil  during  dry  periods,  tim- 
ing of  exposure  and  hydration  of  plants,  rotting 
during  extreme  wet  spells,  germination  timing  and 
success,  and  seedling  establishment).  We  obtained 
preliminary  microclimatic  data  in  1986  by  estab- 
lishing six  ground-level  microclimatic  weather 
stations:  one  adjacent  to  plots  1,  3,  and  4;  two 
stations  in  nearby  non- Pediocactiis  habitat  (called 
plots  1-3-non;  and  4-non);  and  one  at  the  weather 
station  in  Winslow.  Data  were  obtained  on  a 
weekly  basis  for  the  11-week  period  between  April 
15  and  July  6.  Maximum  temperature,  precipita- 
tion, and  gravimetric  water  content  of  the  soils 
were  measured  by  innovative  techniques  (Phillips 
et  al.  1986).  The  date  and  time  when  weather 
readings  were  taken  were  recorded,  as  was  air 
temperature. 

We  initiated  procedures  to  obtain  microclimat- 
ic data  at  the  Pediocacti  sites  for  one  full  year  in 
1987  (Phillips  et  al.  1988).  The  nearest  long-term 
weather  station  (Winslow)  is  40-48  km  from  the 
sites.  Also,  weather  stations  provide  shelter-height 
air  readings  (137  cm  above  the  ground).  Within  5 
cm  of  the  ground  the  daily  temperature  swings  are 
much  greater  than  the  general  climatic  figures  of 
weather  stations  due  to  the  thermal  properties  of 
the  soU;  thus  there  was  a  need  for  microhabitat 
information. 

A  weighing-type  rain  gauge  and  a  recording 
thermograph  were  obtained  from  the  Northern 
Arizona  University  School  of  Forestry  and  in- 
stalled adjacent  to  plots  1-3  (sufficiently  removed 
from  and  hidden  in  such  a  way  as  to  not  draw 
undue  attention  to  the  plots).  Both  the  rain  gauge 
and  thermograph  were  securely  locked  to  prevent 
tampering.  The  rain  gauge  was  bolted  on  a 
wooden  plate  which  was  secured  in  the  ground  by 
75-cm-long  heavy  steel  fence  posts.  After  field 
calibration,  the  rain  gauge  recorded  between  mid- 
April  1987  and  mid-April  1988.  A  mixture  of 
antifreeze  and  water  was  placed  in  the  pail  during 
the  winter  to  prevent  buckling  of  the  pail. 

The  recording  thermograph  was  placed  inside 
a  large  upside-down  ammunition  can,  with  the 
air-recording  cable  suspended  in  a  juniper  and  the 
soU  thermometer  5  cm  under  the  soil  surface  in  an 
area  where  Pediocacti  are  growing.  The  thermo- 
graph charts  were  replaced  every  2  weeks;  the  rain 
gauge  charts  were  changed  once  per  month. 

We  obtained  additional  microclimatic  data 


from  four  ground-level  microclimatic  weather  sta- 
tions that  were  installed  in  April  1987,  following 
procedures  established  in  1986.  Data  were  gath- 
ered every  2  weeks  from  mid-April,  during  the 
growing  season,  and  monthly  during  the  winter, 
from  November  1987  to  February  1988,  until  a  full 
year  of  observations  had  been  obtained. 

The  complete  weather  records  of  the  Winslow 
weather  station  were  obtained  in  1989  on  com- 
puter disc.  The  22-year  record  from  1965  to  1986 
was  compared  with  the  on-site  weather  record  we 
had  gathered  in  1987  and  1988  at  the  Pediocacti 
sites.  The  data  were  ordered  by  month,  and 
monthly  means  and  departures  were  computed 
for  the  parameters  of  maximum  temperature, 
minimum  temperature,  precipitation,  and  snow 
(melted).  This  information  was  then  treated 
statistically  using  Excel  and  the  statistical  package 
Exstatix.  Weather  station  data  from  1987  to  1989 
had  not  been  processed  by  the  National  Weather 
Service  into  a  computer-readable  format,  so  we 
did  not  analyze  those  years  statistically. 

Surveys 

Field  surveys  for  Peebles  Navajo  cactus,  in 
1985  and  1986,  were  oriented  toward  examining 
likely  areas  where  additional  populations  might 
be  found  based  on  geologic  and  soils  maps  and 
aerial  overflights  of  potential  habitats.  Also,  sur- 
veys in  remote  potential  habitat  were  conducted  in 
the  vicinity  of  Woodruff  and  east  of  Winslow  for 
transplant  sites. 

Results 

The  results  of  the  first  5  years  of  monitoring 
(1985-1989)  are  encompassed  in  annual  reports 
submitted  to  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
(Phillips  et  al.  1985,  Phillips  et  al.  1986,  Phillips  et 
al.  1988,  1989,  1990).  This  paper  briefly  summa- 
rizes the  results  from  those  years  and  updates  the 
results  from  continued  monitoring  through  1995. 

It  was  easy  to  relocate  plants  each  spring, 
because  they  had  been  identified  with  unique 
codes  on  nails  and  placed  on  an  accurate  map 
when  the  plots  were  established.  This  procedure 
also  eliminated  excessive  compaction  of  the  soil  in 
the  plots  and  inadvertent  trampling  of  plants.  By 
laying  out  a  minimal  number  of  transect  lines  and 
using  the  maps  to  go  directly  to  the  plants,  known 
plant  locations  were  avoided  on  successive  sam- 
plings and  only  one  person  entered  the  plots.  The 
density  of  plants  in  plots  1,  2,  and  3  is  similar.  Plot 
4  is  about  a  third  as  dense,  but  is  not  as  favorable  a 


29 


site  (steep  slope,  loose  soil,  grazed  area). 

The  mean  heights  of  plants  fluctuated  in  a 
similar  way  in  each  size  category  throughout  the 
year,  responding  to  microhabitat  conditions. 
Plants  emerge  from  winter  dormancy  as  tempera- 
tures rise  in  early  spring,  usually  in  late  March.  By 
early  April,  when  flower  buds  are  first  visible, 
plants  have  doubled  in  height  from  an  average  of 
6  to  14  mm  above  the  soil  surface.  The  plants 
become  turgid,  and  vegetative  growth  occurs. 
Flowering  generally  occurs  in  late  April.  The 
plants  reach  maximum  height  during  fruiting  in 
mid-May.  Then,  during  the  arid  foresummer  (late 
May-early  July)  with  soil  temperatures  up  to  44°C, 
the  plants  retract  into  the  soil,  losing  approxi- 
mately half  their  height  above  the  ground.  With 
the  summer  rains,  the  plants  again  emerge  and 
become  green  and  turgid.  There  is  some  variation 
in  the  amount  and  persistence  of  emergence  of 
individual  plants  and  variation  in  timing  among 
the  plots.  In  general,  the  plants  remain  emergent 
until  early  November  when  they  again  retract  into 
the  ground  and  many  become  flush  with  the  soil 
surface  or  slightly  covered  with  soil  and  pebbles. 

Figure  1  shows  the  numbers  of  plants  re- 
corded in  each  of  the  plots  from  1985  to  1995. 
Figure  2  illustrates  the  general  trend  for  all  plots, 
normalized  to  1995  data.  The  numbers  of  plants  in 


plots  1  and  2  have  tripled;  the  numbers  in  plots  3 
and  4  have  doubled.  Although  the  proportion  of 
seedling  and  juveniles  to  adult  plcints  in  the  plots 
has  increased  due  to  germination  events  described 
below,  the  1985-1987  cohorts  are  beginning  to 
flower  and  thus  contribute  to  the  populations' 
reproductive  efforts. 

Plants  were  placed  in  the  following  size  cate- 
gories: 0-6  mm  =  seedlings,  7-13  mm  =  juveniles, 
14-20  mm  =  young  reproductive  adults,  21-27  = 
adults,  28-maximum  size  =  old  adults.  Figure  3 
shows  the  distribution  of  these  size  classes  in  plot 
1  in  1985, 1989,  and  1995;  this  diagram  is  represen- 
tative of  the  situation  in  all  plots.  The  distribution 
was  bi-modal  in  1985,  with  plants  in  the  seedling 
and  mid-reproductive  size  classes.  Many  seedlings 
germinated  in  the  plots  in  the  late  summer  of  1987. 
In  1989,  the  results  of  the  1987  cohort  of  seedlings 
can  be  seen  in  the  abundance  of  plants  in  the  0-6 
mm  size  class.  By  1995,  no  other  large  germination 
event  had  occurred  and  the  seedlings  were 
beginning  to  move  into  the  juvenile  and  young 
reproductive  size  classes. 

Figure  4  displays  the  yearly  variation  in  num- 
bers of  flowers  in  each  of  the  plots.  Since  there  is 
very  little  mortality  of  adult  plants  in  the  plots 
(except  as  described  below  for  plot  3),  the  varia- 
tion represents  phenologic  response  to  climatic 


Figure  1.  Pediocactus  peeblesianus  var.  peeblesianus  plots:  numbers  of  plants  1985-1995. 


30 


Q.    Q-    Q-  Q- 

f  +  1  t. 


o  o  o  o  o  o  o 

«NJ  O  00  t£>  Tj-  CM  O 

d  d  d  d  o 


31 


Figure  3.  Pediocadus  peehlesianus  var.  peeblesianus  Plot  1:  size  class  distribution  1985-1995. 


Figure  4.  Pediocactus  peeblesianus  var.  peeblesianus  plot  s:  numbers  of  flowers  1985-1995. 


variations.  Site-to-site  variability  is  also  evident. 
Percent  flowering  was  much  lower  in  1989  than  in 
any  of  our  previous  readings,  and  fruit  set  was 
very  low  in  plots  1-3.  Many  plants  that  normally 
flower  did  not  do  so  in  1989,  and  by  the  time  the 
plots  were  visited  many  buds  and  fruits  had 
aborted.  Plot  4,  a  more  mesic  site,  showed  only  a 
slight  decline  in  numbers  of  flowers  that  year. 
Flowering  occurred  much  earlier  than  normal  in 
1989,  probably  due  to  the  dry  winter  and  early 
spring.  In  1990  and  1995,  the  numbers  of  flowers 
were  fewer  in  plot  4  compared  to  the  other  plots. 
Figure  5  graphically  shows  the  year-to-year  varia- 
bility in  numbers  of  flowers  in  plot  1. 

Since  none  of  the  caged  plants  set  fruit  in 
1985,  nor  did  a  hand-selfed  plant,  we  concluded 
that  the  cactus  requires  cross-pollination.  We  have 
recorded  1-3  fruits  per  reproductive  adult.  Fruit- 
ing success  also  varies  considerably  from  year  to 
year,  depending  upon  climatic  conditions.  Repro- 
ductive plants  that  produce  up  to  three  fruits  in 
good  years  produce  one  or  none  in  poor  years. 
Young  reproductive  adults  produce  no  fruits  in 
poor  years. 

The  most  important  impact  to  the  plots  we 
recorded  was  the  loss  of  23  plants  (including  six 
large  reproductive  adults)  from  plot  3  prior  to  our 
1989  surveys.  (In  Figure  2,  see  the  decrease  in 
number  of  plants  in  plot  3  in  1989  compared  to  the 
other  three  plots,  which  show  increases  in  plants 
due  to  the  1987  germinants.)  Apparently  the  losses 
were  due  to  rodent  or  rabbit  predation  as  holes 
and  spine  clusters  were  found  where  most  of  the 
plants  had  been.  Many  seedlings  that  were  closely 
associated  with  the  adults  were  also  lost,  probably 
inadvertently  uprooted  along  with  the  larger 
plants.  We  attribute  the  increased  levels  of  preda- 
tion over  previous  years  to  the  exceptionally  dry 
and  warm  weather  during  the  late  winter  and 
spring  of  1989. 

In  general,  one  to  two  seedlings  from  each  of 
the  1985-1988  cohorts  died  each  year  in  the  plots 
between  1985  and  1989.  Survivorship  of  the  1987 
cohort  was  high  initially  (Phillips  and  Phillips 
1988)  and  33-42  percent  of  the  plants  are  still  alive 
in  1995  (Figure  6).  Although  the  exact  age  of 
reproductive  adults  could  not  be  correlated  to  size 
at  the  initiation  of  this  study,  following  the  1985- 
1987  cohorts  we  now  know  that  plants  reach 
reproductive  maturity  at  8-12  years  of  age. 

Soils/Myccorrh  izae 

Pediocactus  peehlesianus  var.  peebksianus  is  a 
narrow  endemic  restricted  to  specialized  and 


localized  soils.  Edaphic  studies  carried  out  in  1985 
indicated  that  the  soils  of  the  habitat  are  shallow  to 
deep,  well-drained  to  excessively  well-drained 
soils  formed  in  mixed  alluvium  belonging  to  the 
Gypsiorthids-Torriorthents-Haplargids  associa- 
tion. Trace  element  and  mycorrhizal  analyses  on 
the  soils  at  two  Peebles  Navajo  cactus  sites  were 
carried  out  by  Phillips  et  al.  (1986).  Most  of  the 
microelement  values  reported  are  low  to  very  low, 
but  typical  for  desert  soils  that  have  free  lime 
(calcium  carbonate)  (T.  Doerge,  personal  commu- 
nication). 

The  soils  are  very  droughty  (A.  DeWall, 
personal  communication)  in  an  area  that  receives 
very  little  annual  precipitation  and  has  long  dry 
periods  (Sellers  and  Hifl  1974).  Roots  of  the 
Peebles  Navajo  cactus  are  heavily  colonized  with 
vesicular-arbuscular  endomycorrhizae,  including 
Glomus  deserticola .  The  low  phosphorus  in  the  soUs 
at  the  sites  is  important  for  the  growth  of  the  en- 
domycorrhizae. It  is  typical  to  find  mycorrhizae  in 
very  rocky,  droughty  soil,  where  non-mycorrhizal 
plants  have  difficulty  surviving. 

Climate/Microclimate 

At  the  Pediocacti  sites  during  the  flowering 
seasons  in  April  1987-1988,  the  air  temperature 
was  27-32°C  between  10  AM  and  6  PM  almost 
every  day.  By  May  10,  soil  minima  and  maxima 
were  13°C  and  44°C,  respectively,  and  soil 
temperatures  continued  to  occur  above  44  °C  from 
June  until  mid-October.  During  a  rainy  period  in 
August,  the  soil  maxima  were  about  38°C,  with 
minima  about  21°C.  By  mid-September,  soil  and 
air  temperatures  were  closer  together  with  night- 
time temperatures  about  4  degrees  apart.  During  a 
late-September  storm,  soil  and  air  temperatures 
were  essentially  the  same  for  4  days  (making  the 
chart  too  difficult  to  decipher).  By  mid-November, 
night-time  air  temperatures  were  -7  to  -1°C  every 
night;  daytime  highs  were  4-15°C. 

Rainfall  was  somewhat  correlated  in  time 
between  Winslow  and  the  plots,  reflecting  the  fact 
that  weather  patterns  affect  a  fairly  widespread 
area.  However,  the  variations  in  timing  and 
amount  of  precipitation  recorded  correspond  to 
our  field  observations  that  showers  are  very 
localized  in  extent.  The  smaller  amounts  of 
precipitation  recorded  at  the  sites  correspond  to 
our  observations  that  "it  rarely  rains  on  Pediocacti 
sites"  even  though  it  is  raining  across  the  plains. 

The  total  precipitation  at  plots  1-3  was  about 
17  cm  from  May  to  December  1987.  About  24  cm 
of  precipitation  fell  between  May  and  the  end  of 


33 


85  86  87  88  89  90  91   92  93  94  95 

YEAR 

Figure  5.  Pediocactus  peeblesianus  var.  peeblesianus  Plot  1  flowers,  1985-1995. 


^  1987  COHORT 


Plot  1 


Plot  2  Plot  3 

SITE 


Plot  4 


Figure  6.  Pediocactus  peeblesianus  var.  peeblesianus  plots:  survivorship  of  1987  cohort  in  1996. 


34 


December  at  plot  4.  Major  storms  occurred  in  May 
(3.45  cm),  August  (4.05  cm),  September  (3.70  cm), 
and  late  October  (5.13  cm)  at  plot  4.  Near  plots  1-3, 
these  storms  yielded  the  following  amounts:  May 
(1.34  cm),  August  (4.22  cm),  September  (1.05  cm), 
and  late  October  (2.90  cm).  Essentially  no  rain  fell 
from  June  to  mid-July.  During  December,  precipi- 
tation in  the  form  of  snow  fell  at  all  sites  and  re- 
mained on  the  ground  for  long  periods  at  some 
sites. 

The  soil  moisture  content  at  plot  3  ranged 
from  2.05  percent  Quly  23)  to  16.72  percent  (Jan  3, 
1988).  Following  heavy  rains  soil  moisture  content 
rose  to  12.83  percent  (May),  15.19  percent  (Aug), 
and  12.57  percent  (Sept).  November,  December, 
and  January  readings  were  all  high  (13.65-16.72%). 
The  pattern  at  plot  4  was  similar  to  plot  3  although 
the  mean  during  non-rainy  periods  was  a  bit  less. 

In  contrast,  plot  1-3-non  had  high  percentages 
after  the  August  rain  (11.31%),  but  then  quickly 
dropped  and  most  of  the  growing  season  was  very 
low  (mean  about  1.30%)  except  after  rains.  The 
mean  for  the  non-rainy  periods  for  plot  4-non  was 
3.16  percent,  only  slightly  below  plot  4  and  greater 
than  for  plot  3-non.  November,  December,  and 
January  1988  soil  moisture  readings  were  all  high 
(13.65-16.72%).  However,  the  plants  were 
retracted  and  dormant  during  this  period  and  the 
soil  temperature  is  probably  so  low  most  of  the 
time  that  the  water  is  unavailable. 

By  using  growing-degree  days  on  a  monthly 
scale,  a  relationship  between  the  plots  and  Win- 
slow  temperature  regimes  became  apparent  in 
1988  (Phillips  et  al.  1989).  The  trend  of  warming  in 
the  early  spring,  plateau  of  high  summer  tempera- 
tures, and  cooling  in  the  fall  was  revealed,  along 
with  the  dry  foresummer  and  dry  fall  precipitation 
regime  (Figure  7). 

The  22-year  record  at  Winslow  (1965-1986) 
reveals  a  high  degree  of  correlation  of  each 
month's  number  of  growing-degree  days  per 
month  with  the  mean,  with  December  1967  and 
January  1968  standing  out  as  having  unusually 
cold  minima.  December  1967  mean  monthly 
temperature  was  more  normal  (Phillips  et  al. 
1990). 

The  precipitation  showed  a  bi-modal  weather 
pattern,  with  wet  winters  or  wet  summers  (Phil- 
lips et  al.  1990).  In  several  cases  successive  months 
showed  record  amounts.  The  minimum  precipi- 
tation recorded  in  the  22-year  period  was  zero  and 
the  maximum  amount  was  3.6  cm  in  December 
1967.  February  and  March  1973,  July  and  August 
1977,  July-September  1983,  and  July  and  August 


1984  were  wet  months.  As  noted  previously,  July 
and  August  1987  also  had  very  favorable  amounts 
of  precipitation. 

Wind  plays  a  significant  role  in  this  region. 
Winds  along  an  exposed  (windward)  edge  of  the 
sites  may  well  register  higher  velocities  and  65-80 
km/hr  winds  are  fairly  common  especially  preced- 
ing the  passage  of  frontal  air  masses  (C.  Avery, 
personal  communication,  B.  Phillips  and  A.  Phil- 
lips, observations). 

Surveys 

Intensive  surveys  of  potential  habitat  in  1985 
and  1986  did  not  reveal  additional  populations  of 
Pediocactus  peehlesiamis  var.  peeblesianus  and  the 
known  distribution  remains  confined  to  the  Joseph 
City-Holbrook  area  defined  in  the  recovery  plan 
of  1984.  In  1986,  surveys  on  previously  unsur- 
veyed  private  land  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
known  populations  revealed  a  very  low  density  of 
plants  in  one  area,  and  several  larger  colonies 
(totaling  50  counted  plants).  The  thoroughness  of 
the  surveys  in  areas  that  produced  negative  results 
for  Pediocacti  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that  other 
species  of  cacti  as  small  as  seedling  Pediocacti  (3 
mm  diameter)  were  observed.  In  most  cases,  it  was 
possible  to  evaluate  that  the  habitat  seemed  to  lack 
certain  attributes  that  are  characteristic  of  the 
cactus  sites.  Several  search  areas  on  Arizona  state 
land  had  been  heavily  impacted  by  being  scraped 
and  turned  into  gravel  pits.  If,  as  seems  probable, 
that  land  had  been  habitat  for  Peebles  Navajo 
cactus,  it  is  no  longer.  In  1989,  surveys  in  remote 
sites  for  potential  transplant  locations  also  verified 
the  known  range. 

Discussion 

The  work  reported  in  this  paper  addresses  the 
concerns  of  sections  of  the  recovery  plan  that 
called  for  field  monitoring.  Soil  profiles  and  micr- 
oelement analyses  provided  insight  into  localized 
edaphic  parameters.  The  low  values  for  manga- 
nese, iron,  and  zinc  might  prevent  some  potential 
competitors  from  establishing  in  Pediocactus  habi- 
tat. The  gypsum  levels  in  the  range  of  6-16  percent 
are  typical  of  desert  soils  and  do  not  cause  adverse 
effects  if  the  salinity  is  not  high.  Mycorrhizae 
could  provide  a  competitive  edge  for  the  cactus  by 
greatly  facilitating  the  absorption  of  water  and 
nutrients.  In  less  droughty  areas  other  plants 
could  more  easily  compete  with  the  cacti  because 
of  more  favorable  conditions.  Glomus  deserticola  is 
also  abundant  on  P.  peeblesianus  (Croizat)  L.D, 
Benson  var,  fickeiseniae  L.D.   Benson,  and  P. 


35 


300  600  900  1200  1500 


TEMPERATURE 
(Growing  Degree  Days/Month) 


Figure  7.  Climatograph  for  Winslow  ar\d  Plot  1, 1987-1988. 


36 


knoiultonii  L.D.  Benson.  It  is  also  present  (but  not 
abundant)  on  P.  bradyi  L.D.  Benson  and  P.  para- 
dinei  B.W.  Benson  and  is  not  present  on  P.  sileri 
(Engelm.)  L.D.  Benson  (J.  Milne,  personal  commu- 
nication). 

The  climate /microclimate  study  has  given  us 
something  to  use  to  interpret  the  long-term  weath- 
er record  of  Winslow  for  the  Pediocacti  sites.  Major 
weather  events  occur  over  the  whole  area  between 
Winslow  and  Holbrook,  although  individual 
storms  are  quite  spotty  in  distribution,  especially 
in  the  summer,  resulting  in  differences  in  precipi- 
tation and  temperatures  in  local  areas.  We  can 
calculate  monthly  growing-degree  days  for 
Winslow  for  given  years  and  calculate  with  fair 
accuracy  the  type  of  climate  the  plots  would  have 
for  those  years.  Combined  with  precipitation 
records,  this  gives  us  ideas  about  what  years 
might  have  had  extreme  anomalies  as  far  as  grow- 
ing conditions  are  concerned. 

Soil  temperatures  are  much  lower  and  mois- 
ture content  of  soil  increases  in  response  to  rainfall 
events  more  readily  in  April  and  early  May  than 
later  in  the  spring.  Pediocacti  take  advantage  of 
these  favorable  environmental  conditions  by 
timing  their  germination,  seedling  establishment, 
and  flowering  to  correspond  with  them.  By  early 
June,  fruit  set  has  occurred  and  the  cacti  begin  to 
retract  into  the  soil.  The  cacti  emerge  in  the  fall  for 
another  period  of  time.  Significant  seedling  germi- 
nation can  occur  after  summer  rains,  also. 

Within  the  last  25  years,  four  summer  periods 
and  one  late-winter  period  appear  to  have  had 
favorable  precipitation  amounts  for  germination 
bursts.  Many  seedlings  were  recorded  in  spring 
1985,  spring  1986,  and  fall  1987,  which  do  correlate 
with  favorable  summer  1984  and  summer  1987 
precipitation  amounts.  It  is  probable  that  there 
were  favorable  germinations  in  the  spring  1973, 
fall  1977,  and  summer  1984  also. 

Pediocacti  seeds  survive  in  the  soil  for  a  few 
years  (S.  Brack,  personal  communication). 
However,  successful  synchronicity  of  good  seed 
crops  with  appropriate  weather  conditions  for 
germination  and  seedling  survival  may  require 
many  years  to  achieve.  The  flexibility  of  the 
species  to  germinate  in  either  spring  or  fall  allows 
the  plants  to  take  advantage  of  rare  combinations 
of  favorable  conditions  whenever  they  occur.  Fall 
germination  may  actually  result  in  a  higher  level 
of  survival  if  soil  moisture  conditions  remain 
favorable  for  a  long  period  of  time  during  the 
ensuing  winter  season.  The  plants  will  be  6-8 
months  old  before  enduring  their  first  foresummer 


drought  stress  rather  than  1-2  months  old.  In  most 
years,  there  are  significant  dry  periods  in  May- 
June,  and  September-October  in  the  areas  where 
the  cactus  grows.  The  winter  of  1988-89  was  very 
warm  and  dry.  The  survival  of  the  fall  1987  germi- 
nants  through  this  period  was  probably  helped  by 
the  fact  that  they  were  over  a  year  old  by  then.  It 
has  been  shown  that  cactus  seedlings  can  tolerate 
much  longer  periods  of  drought  when  they  are 
larger.  Like  other  cactus,  Peebles  Navajo  cactus 
seedlings  first  have  a  cylindrical  shape,  which  is 
not  as  efficient  for  water  economy  as  a  spherical 
shape  (Gibson  and  Nobel  1986).  Only  after  several 
years  do  the  seedlings  develop  a  more  spherical 
shape. 

Seedlings  may  or  may  not  survive  to  adult- 
hood. Survivorship  depends  upon  them  not 
encountering  a  long  dry  period  before  they  have 
reached  sufficient  size  to  withstand  the  drought. 
Severe  droughts  are  probably  occasionally  re- 
sponsible for  the  death  of  mature  plants. 

Although  positive  conclusions  concerning  the 
cause  of  the  decline  in  number  of  plants  previ- 
ously noted  in  the  BLM  plots  still  cannot  be  made, 
some  packrat  predation  was  proven  from  sorting 
of  middens.  Only  two  Pediocacti  remains  were 
found,  but  the  small  succulent  plants  lack  real 
spine  protection  and  could  easily  be  totally  eaten 
so  that  no  remains  would  be  evident.  Packrats  are 
inveterate  collectors,  and  in  the  course  of  their 
foragings  they  gather  most  of  the  important  plant 
species  in  the  vicinity  of  their  dens  (Finley  1958, 
Van  Devender  1977,  Wells  1976,  Phillips  1984).  The 
normal  foraging  range  is  probably  less  than  100  m 
from  the  den,  but  availability  of  food  materials 
and  population  density  of  packrats  undoubtedly 
affect  the  distance.  The  loss  of  many  seedlings  and 
adult  plants  in  plot  3  in  just  one  season  due  to 
predation  reveals  just  how  radically  the  situation 
for  a  population  can  change  in  a  very  short  period 
of  time. 

The  11-year  record  now  available  for  Peebles 
Navajo  cactus  provides  a  good  perspective  on  the 
life  history  of  this  obscure,  rare  cactus.  Mature 
plants  change  little  in  size  and  flowering,  and  the 
age  of  individuals  may  be  measured  in  decades 
rather  than  years.  Germination  events  may  occur 
once  in  several  years,  and  survival  of  seedlings  is 
fairly  good.  It  appears  that  plants  pass  from  a 
juvenile  to  a  reproductive  state  at  8-12  years  of 
age.  The  fencing  erected  around  the  BLM  study 
area  in  1984  has  resulted  in  removal  of  trampling 
and  indirect  impacts  of  cattle  grazing  in  that  area 
and  the  trend  toward  dramatic  decreases  in  plants 


37 


in  that  area  appears  to  be  reversed.  In  the  future, 
by  correlating  weather  data  with  changes  in  the 
populations,  it  will  be  possible  to  analyze  trends  in 
seedling  establishment,  age-classes,  and  mortality 
of  plants  in  each  monitoring  plot  due  to  weather, 
and  project  demographic  trends  for  the  total  pop- 
ulation of  Peebles  Navajo  cactus. 

Acknowledgments 

We  wish  to  thank  the  many  assistants  who 
worked  diligently  over  the  years  on  this  project  for 
what  may  have  seemed  innumerable  hours,  many 
times  under  very  adverse  weather  conditions. 
Thanks  also  to  Ruth  Phillips  and  Dede  Weage, 
mother  and  wife  respectively  of  Art,  who  cheer- 
fully accompanied  us  in  the  field  in  recent  years. 
We  greatly  appreciate  their  help  and  company.  We 
also  thank  Bob  Wilson  for  his  help  compiling  raw 
plot  data  into  spreadsheets  and  preparing  summa- 
ry statistics.  We,  the  authors,  take  sole  responsibil- 
ity for  the  content  of  this  paper. 

Literature  Cited 

Butterwick,  M.  1986.  Bureau  of  Land  Management's 
efforts  to  conserve  Pediocactus  peeblesianiis  var. 
peeblesiamis  (Cactaceae).  Paper  presented  at  the 
California  Native  Plant  Society  Rare  Plant  Con- 
ference, November  5-8, 1986. 

Finley,  R.B.,  Jr.  1958.  The  wood  rats  of  Colorado: 
Distribution  and  ecology.  University  of  Kansas 
Publication  of  the  Museum  Natural  History  10:213- 
552. 

Gibson,  A.C.,  and  P.S.  Nobel.  1986.  The  Cactus  Primer. 
Harvard  University  Press.  Cambridge,  MA. 

McCreary,  T.W. ,  and  T.C.  Pucker.  1983.  Quality  Assur- 
ance Plan  and  Laboratory  Workbook  Plan.  Soils, 
Water  and  Plant  Tissue  Testing  Laboratory,  Uni- 
versity of  Arizona,  Tucson. 

Phillips,  A.M.,  III.  1984.  Shasta  ground  sloth  extinction. 
Fossil  packrat  midden  evidence  from  the  western 
Grand  Canyon.  In  Martin,  P.S  and  R.G.  Klein, 
editors.  Quaternary  Extinctions,  pp.  148-158.  The 
University  of  Arizona  Press,  Tucson. 

Phillips,  B.G.,  and  A.M.  Phillips,  III.  1988.  Seedling 
germination  and  establishment  in  Pediocactus 
peeblesiamis  var.  peeblesiamis,  an  endangered  cactus  in 
Arizona.  Paper  presented  at  the  Annual  Meeting  of 
the  Society  for  Conservation  Biology,  Davis,  Cali- 
fornia, 19  August  1988. 


Phillips,  B.G.,  A.M.  Phillips,  III,  and  C.C.  Avery.  1988. 
Population  biology  and  monitoring  studies  of 
Peebles  Navajo  Cactus  {Pediocactus  peeblesiamis  var. 
peeblesiamis).  Final  report  submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque,  NM,  55  pp.  plus 
appendices. 

Phillips,  B.C.,  A.M.  Phillips,  III,  and  C.C.  Avery.  1989. 
Population  biology  and  monitoring  studies  of 
Peebles  Navajo  Cactus  {Pediocactus  peeblesiamis  var. 
peeblesiamis).  Final  report  submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque,  NM,  65  pp.  plus 
appendices. 

Phillips,  B.C.,  A.M.  Phillips,  III,  and  C.C.  Avery.  1990. 
Population  biology  and  monitoring  studies  of 
Peebles  Navajo  Cactus  {Pediocactus  peeblesiamis  var. 
peeblesiamis).  Final  report  submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque,  NM,  65  pp.  plus 
appendices. 

Phillips,  B.C.,  A.M.  Phillips,  III,  and  A.  Wildman.  1985. 
Population  biology,  inventory,  and  monitoring 
studies  of  Pediocactus  peeblesiamis  var.  peeblesiamis. 
Final  report  submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service,  Albuquerque,  NM,  38  pp.  plus  appendices. 

Phillips,  B.C.,  A.  Wildman,  and  A.M.  Phillips,  III.  1986. 
Population  biology,  inventory,  and  monitoring  stu- 
dies of  Pediocactus  peeblesiamis  var.  peeblesiamis.  Final 
report  submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Albuquerque,  NM,  57  pp.  plus  appendices. 

Phillips,  J.M.,  and  D.S.  Hayman.  1970.  Improved  proce- 
dures for  clearing  roots  and  staining  parasitic  and 
vesicular-arbuscular  mycorrhizal  fungi  for  rapid 
assessment  of  infection.  Transactions  British  Myco- 
logical  Society  55:158-161. 

Sellers,  W.D.,  and  R.H.  Hill  (eds.)  1974.  Arizona  Climate. 
University  of  Arizona  Press,  Tucson. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1984.  Peebles  Navajo 
Cactus  {Pediocactus  peeblesiamis  (Croizat)  L.  Benson 
var.  peeblesiamis  )  recovery  plan.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wild- 
life Service,  Albuquerque,  NM. 

Van  Devender,  T.R.  1977.  Holocene  woodlands  in  the 
southwestern  deserts.  Science  198:189-192. 

Wells,  P.V.  1976.  Macrofossil  analysis  of  wood  rat 
{Neotoma)  middens  as  a  key  to  the  Quaternary  vege- 
tational  history  of  arid  America.  Quaternary  Re- 
search 6:223-248. 


38 


Population  Viability  Analysis  of  Pediocactus  paradinei 


ROBERT  J.  FRYE 

Environ.  Res.  Lab.  of  the  Soil,  Water  &  Environmental  Science  Dept.,  U.  of  AZ,  Tucson  85721 

Abstract:  Detailed  population  monitoring  of  Pediocactus  paradinei  has  been  performed  on  14 
permanent  plots  since  1987.  Projections  of  future  population  grow^th  were  made  using  both 
deterministic  and  stochastic  models.  Of  the  14  plots,  only  one  consistently  demonstrated  a 
high  probability  of  persistence  in  the  future.  The  fate  of  the  populations  on  the  other  13  plots 
is  uncertain  at  this  time.  The  methods,  limitations,  and  uncertainties  associated  vv^ith  rare 
plant  population  modeling  w^ill  be  discussed  in  relation  to  the  projections  of  the  fate  of  this 
species. 


Introduction 

Warren  et  al.  (1993)  reported  the  results  of  4 
years  of  detailed  population  monitoring  of  Pedio- 
cactus paradinei  on  14  permanent  plots  located  on 
five  study  areas  distributed  throughout  the  range 
of  the  species.  Their  w^ork  described  the  demogra- 
phy of  the  populations  studied  and  discussed  the 
future  status  of  the  species.  Here  this  vv^ork  is 
extended  by  calculating  reproductive  value,  and 
stage  class  transition  probabilities,  and  projecting 
the  future  population  trajectories  on  the  monitored 
plots. 

Methods 

Five  diameter  size  classes  were  defined  based 
on  the  work  of  Warren  et  al.  (1993): 


Diameter  Size  (mm) 


Size  (Stage)  Class 


0-10 
11-20 
21-30 
31^0 

>41 


1 
2 
3 
4 
5 


Diameter  data  for  all  years  were  converted 
into  size  classes  from  which  transition  probabili- 
ties were  calculated.  Individual  cacti  that  had 
complete  records  of  occurrence  during  the  4  years 
of  continuous  census  periods  (1987-1990)  or  that 
disappeared  and  included  a  definite  cause  of 
death  were  used  in  this  analysis.  Individuals  with 
missing  data  were  not  included  in  the  calculation 
of  transition  probabilities  for  that  transition  period 
as  it  was  not  possible  to  determine  the  stage  class 
of  the  individuals  during  the  missed  census(es). 
This  provides  a  conservative  estimate  of  transition 
probabilities. 

Transition  probabilities  and  reproductive 
value  were  calculated  for  each  plot,  each  site,  and 
for  all  sites  combined.  The  mean  and  variance  of 


transition  probabilities  for  each  plot  were  calcu- 
lated across  years  for  transitions  between  1987  and 
1990.  Transition  probabilities  were  calculated  for 
each  year  and  plot  separately,  and  also  for  each 
site  by  determining  the  number  of  individuals  that 
moved  from  one  stage  (size)  class  to  another  and 
dividing  each  of  these  numbers  by  the  total  num- 
ber of  individuals  in  the  stage  class.  For  example, 
if  there  was  a  total  of  20  individuals  in  stage  class 
one  on  a  plot  in  1987  and  8  remained  in  stage  class 
1  in  1988,  the  probability  that  an  individual  in 
stage  class  1  did  not  change  stage  class  was  8/20  = 
0.40.  For  this  example,  if  we  assume  that  four 
individuals  grew  to  size  class  2,  then  the  transition 
probability  for  movement  from  class  1  to  2  would 
be  4/20  =  0.2.  If  we  then  hypothetically  found  that 
two  had  grown  into  stage  class  3  between  1987 
and  1988,  the  probability  of  transition  from  class  1 
to  3  would  be  2/20  =  0.10.  The  probability  of  death 
for  an  individual  in  this  hypothetical  example 
would  then  be  6/20  =  0.30.  The  probability  of 
death  was  only  calculated  for  individuals  known 
to  be  dead;  individuals  that  disappeared  from  the 
records,  but  had  no  recorded  year  or  cause  of 
death,  were  not  included.  Individuals  that  ap- 
peared as  post-seedlings  were  not  counted  as 
recruits,  because  they  were  not  deemed  to  be  new 
plants,  but  were  simply  not  seen  the  year  before. 
Subsequent  year  censuses  of  these  individuals 
were  included  for  transition  changes. 

Estimation  of  the  reproductive  contribution  of 
an  individual  in  a  stage  class  from  one  year  to  the 
next  was  calculated  with  the  following  formula: 


Ri 


IR 


(TR) 


1  y 


where  Rj  is  the  total  number  of  flowers  and  fruits 
produced  by  the  individuals  of  age  class  1,  ZRj  is 
the  total  number  of  flowers  and  fruits  for  all  age 


39 


classes  at  that  site  or  on  the  plot,  TR  is  the  total 
number  of  recruits  (at  the  site  or  on  the  particular 
plot),  and  Dj  is  the  total  number  of  individuals  in 
the  stage  class  at  the  site  or  on  the  plot.  For 
example,  on  site  3  (Valley)  during  the  1988-1989 
censuses  a  total  of  12  flowers  and  fruits  were 
produced  by  four  individuals  in  the  fifth  age  class. 
All  told,  83  flowers  and  fruits  were  produced  by 
individuals  on  site  3  during  the  1988  census  and  38 
recruits  were  noted  in  1989  on  the  plots  in  site  3. 
Thus, 


=  1.374, 


so  1.374  new  individuals  were  produced  by  each 
member  of  the  fifth  age  class  on  site  3  between 
1988  and  1989.  As  with  transition  probabilities, 
this  statistic  was  calculated  separately  for  each 
transition  period  and  for  each  plot.  Means  and 
variances  were  calculated  across  years.  As  with 
the  transition  probabilities,  data  were  also  lumped 
over  the  plots  for  each  site  to  calculate  reproduc- 
tive value  on  an  overall  site  basis. 

Simulations  of  potential  changes  in  population 
growth  were  calculated  using  Person's  RAMAS/ 
STAGE  simulation  system  (1994).  This  commer- 
cially available  software  provides  a  convenient 
platform  for  performing  the  matrix  algebra  neces- 
sary for  calculating  population  growth  using  stage 
class  models.  Both  deterministic  and  stochastic 
simulations  can  be  performed  with  the  software. 
In  the  simulation  results  presented  here,  future 
population  size  of  the  species  was  examined  over 
a  100-year  period.  In  all  cases  the  starting  number 
of  individuals  was  from  the  1990  survey.  That  was 
the  last  year  in  which  all  plots  were  surveyed. 

The  software  allows  the  incorporation  of  den- 
sity-dependent effects  in  the  model  of  population 
growth.  Density  dependence  was  not  included  in 
the  models  used  here,  however,  as  no  information 
on  density  dependence  is  available  for  the  species. 

Deterministic  simulations  were  performed  for 
all  the  sites  combined  and  for  each  site  for  each 
transition  year  between  1987  and  1990.  The  deter- 
ministic simulations  assume  that  transition  proba- 
bilities and  reproductive  value  are  constant  and 
invariable  from  year  to  year.  The  models  thus 
show  exponential  growth  or  decline.  The  determi- 
nistic simulations  provide  an  estimate  of  the  fate 
of  the  population  based  on  the  assumption  that  the 
transition  probabilities  and  reproduction  coeffi- 
cients do  not  change  from  year  to  year.  This  is  not 
a  realistic  assumption. 


A  more  realistic  approach  to  simulating  future 
population  growth  is  to  assume  that  transition 
probabilities  and  reproductive  value  will  vary 
from  year  to  year.  If  a  relationship  exists  between 
transition  probability  and  some  variable  such  as 
precipitation,  an  equation  describing  the  relation- 
ship may  be  used  in  the  simulation.  If  no  function- 
al relationships  are  known,  it  is  nevertheless 
possible  to  simulate  year-to-year  variability  using 
stochastic  simulation  techniques.  RAMAS/ STAGE 
facilitates  stochastic  simulations  by  allowing  the 
input  of  means  and  variances  for  transition  prob- 
abilities and  the  choice  of  an  underlying  distribu- 
tion of  probabilities.  In  all  stochastic  simulations 
reported  here  a  uniform  distribution  was  assumed 
to  give  the  maximum  possible  variation  in  the 
simulations.  Given  sparse  data  and  no  a  priori 
knowledge  of  the  way  demographic  variables 
change,  this  assumption  is  the  most  conservative. 
In  addition,  my  experience  with  these  types  of 
stochastic  simulations  has  been  that  the  specific 
distribution  chosen  does  not  influence  the  results 
significantly.  Subsequent  census  data  will  be  used 
to  determine  if  this  and  other  assumptions  made 
in  these  simulations  are  reasonable  approxima- 
tions of  the  population  behavior. 

RAMAS /STAGE  calculates  a  stochastic  sim- 
ulation by  choosing  a  value  for  the  transition 
probability  or  reproductive  value  from  the  chosen 
distribution  specified  by  the  mean  and  variance 
input.  The  program  then  calculates  the  population 
size  of  the  stage  class  in  the  next  year  using  the 
randomly  chosen  transition  probabilities.  A  new 
value  is  chosen  for  the  transition  probability  (or 
reproductive  value)  at  each  time  step  in  the 
simulation.  RAMAS/STAGE  allows  up  to  1000 
such  simulations  to  be  made.  All  stochastic 
simulations  reported  here  were  made  using  1000 
replicate  simulations.  The  only  value  retained 
during  these  simulations  was  the  total  population 
size  at  the  end  of  each  time  step,  although  the 
program  will  retain  the  numbers  of  each  stage 
class  if  desired.  Simulation  results  were  saved  as  a 
file  and  imported  into  either  LOTUS  or  SIGMA - 
PLOT  spreadsheets.  Standard  deviations  were 
converted  into  standard  errors  for  graphing. 
Graphs  of  the  stochastic  simulations  show  the 
mean  and  the  standard  error  about  the  mean. 

Results  and  Discussion 

Histograms  of  the  total  frequency  of  diameter 
sizes  for  all  plots,  sites,  and  years  were  inspected 
for  any  unusual  structure.  None  was  detected. 


40 


Figure  1.  Average  life  cycle  of  Pediocactus  paradinei  based  upon  five  size  classes.  The  numbers  left  of  the 
line  are  the  transition  probabilities  of  an  individual  growing  from  the  smaller  stage  class  to  the  larger.  The 
number  to  the  right  of  the  line  is  the  probability  of  transitioning  from  the  larger  to  the  smaller  stage  class. 


Figure  1  is  a  diagram  of  the  life  cycle  of  the 
species  used  in  this  study.  The  numbers  to  the  left 
of  the  line  are  the  mean  probabilities  for  transition 
from  the  smaller  to  the  larger  stage  class;  numbers 
to  the  right  of  the  line  are  the  mean  probabilities 
for  transition  from  the  larger  to  the  smaller.  Figure 
2  shows  the  change  in  the  population  sizes  of  each 
plot  and  for  each  site  between  1987  and  1994.  Be- 
tween 1987  and  1990  plots  on  the  Valley,  Trail,  and 
Kane  sites  show  increasing  population  sizes  while 
the  Pasture  plots  show  declining  numbers  and 
those  on  the  House  Rock  site  appear  stable.  Partial 
surveys  conducted  during  the  period  of  1992-1994 
show  a  large  decline  on  the  Valley  and  Pasture 
plots  with  no  change  in  the  Trail  plots  and  what 
might  be  an  increase  in  the  House  Rock  and  Kane 
plots.  Figure  2  indicates  relatively  stable  popula- 
tions (with  the  exception  of  the  Valley  site)  be- 
tween 1987  and  1994  particularly  on  the  plots  with 
the  highest  densities  (plot  10  and  plot  3).  Based  on 
the  size  histograms  and  the  population  numbers 
noted  between  1987  and  1994,  one  could  conclude 
that  this  population  is  relatively  stable  and  is  not 
currently  at  risk.  The  large  decline  in  numbers 
noted  on  the  Valley  plots  (nos.  1  and  2)  however 
does  raise  some  concerns.  We  can  explore  some  of 
these  concerns  through  an  examination  of  the 
simulations  of  future  population  changes. 


Figure  3  shows  the  results  of  four  determi- 
nistic studies  of  future  population  sizes  of  the 
entire  population  of  the  cactus  based  on  transition 
probabilities  and  reproductive  value  calculated 
between  the  years  1987-1990.  In  interpreting  these 
figures  and  the  others  presented,  the  actual 
population  sizes  should  not  be  considered  of  any 
great  importance;  rather,  the  qualitative  future 
increase  or  decrease  in  the  population  should  be 
noted.  Thus,  using  the  data  on  reproduction  and 
survival  between  1987  and  1988,  the  future  for  the 
population  looks  good  since  during  the  100  years 
of  the  simulation,  the  population  shows  positive 
growth.  On  the  other  hand,  survival  and  recruit- 
ment were  so  poor  between  1988  and  1989  that  the 
population  would  become  extinct  if  no  change 
occurred  in  the  demographic  variables  of  the 
population.  The  conditions  between  1989  and  1990 
were  also  not  conducive  to  population  expansion 
and  a  relatively  slower  decline  would  be  evident 
under  these  demographic  conditions.  However, 
even  after  100  years  the  population  would  not  be 
extinct.  When  aggregated  over  all  years  the 
demographic  conditions,  if  unchanging,  would 
lead  to  the  eventual  extinction  of  the  population 
(within  80  years). 

Deterministic  simulations  for  each  of  the  five 
sites  using  1987-88  transition  data  showed  all  sites 


41 


160  H 
120 

80 

40 
0 

90 

60 
30 

0 
90 
60 
30 

0 

240 
180 
120 
60 
0 


TOTAL 
T" 


VALLEY 


PASTURE 


TOTAL 


HOUSE 
ROCK 


TOTAL 
T" 

#11 


TRAIL 
■  ---^ 


1987      1988      1989      1990      1992      1993  1994 


Figure  2.  Number  of  individual  Pediocactus  paradmei  by  plot  and  site. 


42 


0       10      20      30      40      50      60      70      80      90  100 


Years 


Figure  3.  Deterministic  simulation  of  all  plots  by  year. 


43 


but  Kane  increasing.  Simulations  using  1988-1989 
data  indicate  increasing  populations  at  the  Trail 
and  Valley  sites,  but  decreasing  populations  at  the 
other  three  sites.  Simulations  based  on  the  1989- 
1990  data  were  positive  for  all  of  the  sites  except 
Pasture.  It  is  apparent  from  these  calculations  that 
the  Kane  and  Pasture  sites  seem  to  be  the  most 
vulnerable  of  the  populations  under  constant 
demographic  conditions  while  the  Trail,  Valley, 
and  House  Rock  sites  seem  to  have  a  brighter 
prognosis.  Obviously  though,  demographic  con- 
ditions change  with  changes  in  the  physical  and 
biological  environment.  To  examine  the  impact  of 
demographic  variability,  I  calculated  a  series  of 
stochastic  simulations. 


Figure  4  shows  the  results  of  a  stochastic  sim- 
ulation of  the  entire  population  of  the  cactus  over 
100  years.  For  this  simulation,  aggregated  data  on 
survivorship  and  reproduction  across  all  plots  was 
used  to  estimate  each  year's  demographic  con- 
dition. The  three  transition  years  were  then  used 
to  estimate  the  mean  transition  probabilities  and 
reproduction  and  the  variation  about  the  means. 
The  results  of  1000  simulations  is  shown  in  Figure 
4.  The  line  represents  the  mean  population  size  for 
that  year  over  1000  simulated  population  trials. 
The  error  bars  around  the  means  are  the  standard 
errors  of  the  means.  It  should  be  noted  that  the 
standard  error  of  the  mean  simulated  population 
size  overlaps  with  zero  after  only  9  years  of  simu- 


-a 

> 
T3 


CD 


20 


40 


60 


80 


100 


Years 


Figure  4.  Stochastic  simulation  of  all  plots  for  all  years,  means,  and  standard  errors. 


44 


Plot  #9 


0  20  40  60  80  100 


Years 


Figure  5.  Stochastic  simulation  of  trail  plots  for  all  years,  means,  and  standard  errors. 


45 


lated  time.  Clearly  the  risk  of  extinction  under 
these  demographic  conditions  is  high. 

Simulations  for  each  plot  and  for  the  aggre- 
gated data  on  each  plot  were  calculated  for  each 
site.  The  simulations  for  all  the  sites  and  plots 
within  sites  indicated  declining  populations  with 
the  exception  of  the  Trail  site.  Figure  5  shows  that 
at  the  Trail  site,  plot  10  has  a  net  positive  growth 
while  plots  9  and  11  show  a  decline  over  time. 
Notice,  however,  that  even  for  plot  10,  the  stan- 
dard error  of  the  mean  population  size  still  over- 
laps zero,  implying  the  possibility  of  extinction.  It 
is  interesting  to  note  that  this  is  the  plot  with  the 
largest  number  of  individual  plants. 

One  obvious  difference  in  the  examination  of 
the  extant  population  and  the  population  viability 
analysis  as  calculated  here  is  that  the  relatively 
stable  behavior  we  see  in  the  population  between 
1987  and  1994  is  not  evident  in  the  simulations. 
The  reason  for  this  can  be  found  in  the  reproduc- 
tion tables.  Inspection  of  these  tables  and  the 
tables  of  transition  probabilities  could  lead  to  the 
conclusion  that  due  to  relatively  low  death  rates  of 
the  individuals,  a  short-term  stability  in  popula- 
tion size  should  be  expected  (and  seen.  Figure  2). 
However,  all  plots  show  a  relatively  low  level  of 
recruitment.  Even  with  very  low  mortality  rates 
populations  with  little  or  no  recruitment  must 
inevitably  decline. 

Does  this  portend  extinction  of  the  species? 
This  question  is  hard  to  answer.  The  relatively 
long  life  of  individual  Pediocactus  paradinei,  com- 
bined with  a  variable  but  occasionally  high  recruit- 
ment rate,  could  lead  to  a  persistent  population 
with  relatively  stable  numbers.  A  population  of 
organisms  that  lives  for  10-20  years  may  need 
only  one  or  two  good  years  of  reproduction  out  of 
10  or  20  poor  years  to  replace  itself.  A  short-term 
sampling  of  the  population  might  be  likely  to  miss 
the  good  year  of  reproduction  and  thus  overesti- 


mate the  risk  of  extinction.  That  is  entirely  possible 
with  Pediocactus  paradinei.  It  is  interesting  to  note 
that  during  the  period  of  study  of  this  population, 
the  highest  levels  of  precipitation  recorded  at  the 
North  Rim  of  the  Grand  Canyon  were  not  cor- 
related with  higher  recruitment  on  the  plots.  This 
may  imply  that  we  have  yet  to  see  a  truly  good 
year  for  this  population.  An  inspection  of  the 
precipitation  records  over  the  last  50  years  shows 
that  while  the  precipitation  that  has  occurred  since 
1987  is  not  noticeably  high,  it  has  been  higher  in 
the  past.  The  only  sure  way  to  answer  the  question 
is  to  continue  to  acquire  data  on  the  populations. 

The  management  implications  from  this  work 
are  not  obvious.  The  Trail  site,  subjected  to  a  low- 
intensity  burn  in  1987,  shows  positive  growth  in 
the  simulations.  The  Pasture  site,  subjected  to  a  hot 
fire  in  1988,  shows  declining  populations  and  an 
uncertain  future  in  the  simulations.  Clearly,  the 
use  of  prescribed  fire  must  be  undertaken  with 
some  caution  and  prescribed  fires  should  be  de- 
signed to  be  cool  burns.  These  recommendations 
do  not  differ  from  previous  management  recom- 
mendations (Warren  et  al.  1993). 

Literature  Cited 

Person,  S.  1994.  RAMAS/STAGE.  Generalized  stage- 
based  modeling  for  population  dynamics.  Applied 
Biomathematics,  Setauket,  New  York. 

Frye,  R.J.  1995.  Population  viability  analysis  of  Pedio- 
cactus paradinei.  Unpublished  report  prepared  for 
Coconino  National  Forest.  55  pp. 

Warren,  P.L.,  R.J.  Frye,  D.  Gori,  and  A.  Laurenzi.  1993. 
Population  biology  of  Pediocactus  paradinei,  a  rare 
cactus  from  northern  Arizona.  Proceedings  of  the 
Rare  and  Endangered  Plant  Conference,  Sivinski,  R 
and  K.  Lightfoot,  editors,  pp.  132-143.  New  Mexico 
Forestry  and  Resources  Conservation  Division, 
Energy,  Minerals  and  Natural  Resources  Depart- 
ment, Miscellaneous  Publ.  No.  2.  Santa  Fe,  NM. 


46 


Demographic  Monitoring  of  Pediocactus  peeblesianus  var. 
fickeiseniae  on  the  Arizona  Strip 

LEE  E.HUGHES 
Ecologist,  Arizona  Strip  District,  Bureau  of  Land  Management 

Abstract:  Fickeisen  plains  cactus  is  a  rare,  narrow  endemic  restricted  to  Kaibab  Limestone 
derived  soils.  The  populations  are  disjunct.  The  plant  is  rare  and  is  vulnerable  to  population 
decline  with  damage  to  a  small  area  of  habitat.  It  is  a  category  1  candidate  for  listing  as 
threatened  or  endangered.  Man-induced  threats  include  off-highway  vehicles  and  livestock 
trampling.  The  Bureau  of  Land  Management  established  two  monitoring  plots  and  two 
transects  at  four  places  across  the  Arizona  Strip  to  measure  size,  mortality,  fruiting,  and 
recruitment,  and  to  map  the  cacti  in  the  plots.  The  data  have  been  gathered  since  1986.  Plants 
in  the  10-20  mm  and  20-30  mm  wide  size  categories  are  predominant.  The  populations  seem 
stable.  Herbivory  was  the  largest  cause  of  mortality  in  dry  years.  Fruiting  has  been  best  in 
wetter  than  average  seasons. 


Introduction 

Fickeisen  plains  cactus,  Pediocactus  -peeblesianus 
(Croizat)  Benson  var.  Fickeiseniae  Benson  (=  Nava- 
joa  fickeisenii  Backeberg,  Toumeya  fickeisenii  Earle, 
and  Pediocactus  fickeisenii  Benson)  is  a  category  1 
species.  It  is  an  endemic  that  grows  on  Kaibab 
Limestone  derived  soils;  however,  the  soils  are  far 
more  widespread  than  is  the  cactus.  Fickeisen 
plains  cactus  is  a  very  small,  unbranched  cactus 
that  shrinks  into  the  gravelly  soils  after  flowering 
and  fruiting.  Mature  plants  are  3  inches  tall  and 
1.5  inches  in  diameter,  but  the  majority  of  the  stem 
is  underground.  Stems  have  tubercles  that  form  a 
spiral  pattern  around  the  plant.  The  spines  are 
corky  with  the  central  spine  being  3/8-inch  long, 
ashy  white,  and  pointed  upwards.  Flowers  are 
cream  colored  to  yellow. 

The  geographic  range  of  this  cactus  occurs 
from  Mainstreet  Valley  on  the  west  to  Marble  Can- 
yon on  the  east,  Mohave  and  Coconino  counties, 
Arizona.  It  occurs  in  some  abundance  in  Main- 
street  Valley  where  a  dense  population  occurs,  but 
is  also  found  in  scattered  populations  in  the  gener- 
al areas  of  Hurricane  Valley,  Hurricane  clifftops, 
Clayhole  Ridge,  Sunshine  Ridge,  and  Houserock 
Valley.  It  grows  in  shallow  soils  near  to  exposed 
layers  of  Kaibab  Limestone  on  the  margins  of 
canyons  or  well-drained  hills  in  Navajoan  desert 
or  Great  Plains  grassland  at  4000-5000  feet 
(Gierisch  1987,  Phillips  et  al.  1979). 

The  predominant  vegetation  in  its  habitat  in- 
cludes desert  grassland,  sagebrush,  and  shadscale 
vegetation  types.  Associated  species  include  blue 
grama  {Bouteloua  gracilis),  black  grama  {Bouteloua 
eriopoda),  galleta  {Hilaria  jamesii),  fourwing  saltbush 


{Atriplex  canescens),  snakeweed  {Gutierrezia  sar- 
othrae),  and  sagebrush  {Artemisia  tridentata).  Brady 
pincushion  cactus  {Pediocactus  bradyi)  also  occurs 
close  to  this  species. 

Current  Bureau  of  Land  Management  (BLM) 
policy  is  to  conserve  this  cactus  to  preclude  it 
being  listed.  Under  the  Arizona  Native  Plant  Law 
it  is  classified  as  highly  safeguarded — ^no  collection 
is  allowed.  Under  the  State  Rank  by  Arizona  Heri- 
tage data  management  system,  this  plant  is  S-2, 
which  signifies  that  it  is  rare.  It  contributes  diver- 
sity to  the  plcint  communities  in  which  it  occurs. 
During  drought,  it  and  other  succulents  become 
food  for  small  mammals,  thus  contributing  to  the 
food  chain.  As  with  rare  items  generally,  some 
individuals  wish  to  possess  it.  Collection  pressure 
to  date  appears  light  on  the  Arizona  Strip — studies 
and  observation  have  not  demonstrated  any  col- 
lection (see  Table  3).  The  value  of  this  taxon  to 
humans  is  its  rareness,  its  potential  contributions 
to  the  human  race,  and  the  ecosystems  in  which  it 
occurs. 

This  paper  describes  results  from  9  years  of 
demographic  monitoring  studies. 

Methods 

Annual  measures  on  size/ age  structure  of  the 
cactus  were  recorded  from  1986  to  1994  at  the  four 
localities  across  the  Arizona  Strip  on  lands  man- 
aged by  the  BLM.  The  size  structure  trend  is  meas  - 
ured  in  two  plots — Dutchman  and  North  Canyon. 
There  are  also  two  transects  that  are  read  annually 
at  two  locations — Clayhole  and  Sunshine.  These 
transects  give  less  accurate  data,  but  are  never- 
theless accurate  enough  to  detect  changes  in  size 


47 


structure  similar  to  that  shown  in  plots.  The 
transect  search  method  is  less  accurate  because 
smaller  sized  cactus  go  undetected.  Other  small 
populations  in  outlying  habitat  are  marked  with 
rebar.  In  general,  this  is  a  cluster  of  cactus  around 
a  rebar.  Sites  with  rebar  are  visited  once  every  5  to 
10  years  to  determine  whether  the  cactus  are  still 
present  at  the  sites. 

The  cacti  were  tagged,  mapped,  and  measured 
at  all  plots  and  transects.  Mortality  was  noted,  and 
if  possible,  the  cause  of  mortality  was  recorded. 
Fruiting  was  noted  if  monitoring  occurred  at  the 
proper  time  of  the  year. 

Results 

For  the  Dutchman  Plot  (Table  1,  Figure  1), 
where  the  densest  population  occurs,  the  data 
demonstrated  fluctuations  in  numbers.  The  first- 
year  numbers  of  Tick'  are  much  lower  than  the 
remainder  of  the  years  (Table  1,  Figure  1),  because 
many  were  missed  when  plots  were  first  estab- 
lished. Good  winter  precipitation  seems  to  influ- 
ence the  population  growth  positively. 

The  first  3  years  show  no  very  small  cacti  (0- 
4.9  mm),  but  then  from  1989  through  1992,  good 
recruitment  of  very  small  cacti  occurred.  In  all 
years,  the  plot  was  dominated  by  the  size  class  of 
10-20  mm,  which  is  the  size  when  fruiting  begins 
to  occur.  All  size  classes  except  0-^.9  mm  are  well 
represented  in  the  plot.  The  site  is  covered  with 
grass,  and  the  0-4.9  mm  size  may  have  been  diffi- 
cult to  observe.  In  years  when  it  was  dry  for  a  few 
months  before  monitoring,  the  small  cacti  usually 
retracted  and  may  have  been  missed  during  moni- 
toring (Table  1). 

Mortality  data  for  the  Dutchman  Plot  demon- 
strated that  natural  causes — such  as  rodent  depre- 
dation, old  age,  drought,  and  rot — were  responsi- 
ble for  most  deaths  of  this  cactus  in  the  plots. 
There  was  one  death  since  1988  that  could  be 
attributed  to  cow  hoof  placement  (see  Mortality, 
Table  2). 

The  Clayhole  transect  size  structure  (Table  1) 
showed  many  larger,  and  thus  older,  individuals 
(20-30+  mm).  Only  a  single  plant  in  the  0-20  mm 
size  class  was  seen  in  8  years,  but  searches  were 
not  intensive  for  small  cactus.  This  population  is 
scattered  over  a  mile.  Few  cacti  died  in  the  transect 
(Table  2)  and  most  mortality  was  due  to  depreda- 
tion and  rot.  Three  cacti  were  killed  by  livestock 
trampling  in  1988. 

The  North  Canyon  plot  size  structure  (Table  1, 
Figure  2)  was  dominated  by  the  10-30  mm  size 
class.  Although  the  very  small  cacti  ( 0-4.9  mm) 


Table  1.  Size  structure  (measure  of  width  in  milli- 
meters) (USDI 1994). 

0-4.9       5-10      10.1-20  20.1-30 
Year  mm         mm         mm         mm  30.1+ 


were  sought,  they  were  not  found.  But  because 
timing  is  crucial  for  finding  these  very  smaU  cacti, 
they  may  be  visible  only  rarely.  There  are  quite  a 
few  in  the  5-10  mm  size.  This  plot's  population 
took  a  beating  in  1992,  when  depredation  occurred 
to  26  cacti.  The  cacti  are  just  beginning  to  recover. 

The  Sunshine  population  transect  showed  a 
similar  size  structure  pattern  as  at  Clayhole.  Two 


Dutchman  Plot  (33  ft  wide  x  66  ft  long) 


1986  0 

9 

A 
ft 

c. 
o 

Z 

1987  0 

22 

'iS\ 
o\i 

1  0, 

LO 

1988  0 

15 

oo 

Oo 

ID 

1989  10 

53 

79 

iU 

1990  7 

37 

/o 

1991  23 

51 

69 

35 

16 

1992  19 

45 

95 

49 

11 

1993  0 

27 

80 

50 

11 

Clayhole  Transect  (follows 

Clayhole  Ridge  for  .25  mile) 

1986  0 

1 

1 

X 

1  ^ 

c 

D 

1987  0 

0 

A 
rt 

1  ^ 

A 
rt 

1988  1 

6 

A 
rr 

1Q 

D 

1989  0 

0 

■a 
o 

XO 

19 

1990  0 

0 

14 

1991  0 

3 

4 

25 

5 

1992  0 

7 

5 

23 

9 

1993  0 

8 

6 

11 

9 

North  Canyon  Plot  (27  feet  x 

27  feet) 

1986  0 

5 

3 

A 
t: 

1987  0 

1 

3 

in 

9 

1988  0 

6 

8 

in 

n. 
o 

1989  0 

2 

13 

in 

rt 
o 

1990  0 

2 

8 

in 

1'^ 

1991  0 

7 

10 

14 

c; 

1992  0 

0 

0 

o 

1993  0 

4 

2 

2 

5 

1994  0 

1 

7 

4 

4 

Sunshine  (cluster  around  rebars) 

1986  0 

0 

2 

4 

0 

1987  0 

1 

2 

6 

3 

1988Data  not  taken 

1989  0 

0 

0 

6 

2 

1990  0 

2 

9 

18 

4 

1991  0 

0 

19 

14 

10 

1992  0 

6 

15 

17 

6 

1993  0 

6 

6 

9 

11 

1994  0 

12 

10 

9 

4 

48 


0-4.9nYn  5-10nYn         10.1 -20  mm       20.1  -30  mm         30.1+ mm 

Size:  Width 


Figure  1.  Dutchman  Plot  size  structure. 


Legend 


0-4.9  mm  5 -10  mm  10.1 -20  mm        20.1 -30  mm        30.1 -40  mm 

Size:  Width 


Figure  2.  North  Canyon  Plot  size  structure. 


49 


Table  2.  Mortality,  on  each  study  area,  was  noted  start- 
ing in  the  year  shown  (USDI 1994). 


Table  3.  Percent  of  tagged  plants  flowering  and  fruiting. 


Year 


Off- 
Highway  Livestock 
Vehicles     Trampling  Collections 


Dutchman  Plot 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

1993 


Clayhole  Transect 

1988  0 

1989  0 

1990  0 

1991  Data  not  taken 

1992  0 

1993  0 

1994  0 

North  Canyon  Plot 

1986  0 

1987  0 

1988  0 

1989  0 

1990  0 

1991  0 

1992  0 

1993  0 

1994  0 

Sunshine 

1989  0 

1990  0 

1991  0 

1992  0 

1993  0 

1994  0 


Natural 


7 
0 
4 
26 
5 
0 


0 
1 
0 

1 
1 
1 

26 
0 
1 


3 

1 

3 

13 

5 

5 


Year 


Flowering 


Fruiting 


Dutchman 

1989 

Clayhole 

1990 
1991 
1992 
1993 
1994 

North  Canyon 

1989 
1990 
1991 
1992 
1993 

Sunshine 

1989 
1990 
1991 
1992 
1993 
1994 


60% 
29% 


18% 
0 


Retracted 
79% 


55% 


49% 
34% 
18% 
29% 

40% 

61% 

0 
50% 


62% 
All  Retracted 
79% 

28% 
17% 


The  sizes  of  the  cactus  and  corresponding  amounts  of 
fruit  produced  from  all  plots  and  transects  are  reported 
below  from  years  1989  through  1994  (USDI  1994). 


Width 

Class 

(mm) 


Average 

Fruit 
Produced 


Range  of 

Fruit 
Produced 


Total 
Cactus 
Fruiting 


plots  were  established  in  1993  and  1994,  and  the 
number  of  5-10  mm  cacti  made  more  of  a  show- 
ing. In  fact,  there  were  more  in  the  5-10  mm  size 
group  than  the  other  categories  as  more  intensive 
searches  in  small  areas  enabled  the  location  of  the 
small  cacti.  While  mortality  in  this  transect  was 
mainly  from  natural  causes,  one  cactus  was  killed 
in  1989  by  a  hoof  placement. 

Fruit  production  ranged  from  18  to  80  percent 
of  the  tagged  cactus  (see  Table  3).  The  amount  of 
seed  production  seems  to  be  controlled  by  the 
weather  (see  Figures  1  and  2,  Tables  4  and  5). 

Discussion 
Pediocactus  peeblesianus  var.  fickeiseniae  is  a  rare, 
narrow  endemic,  restricted  to  Kaibab  Limestone 
derived  soils.  The  disjunct  populations  occur  in 
clusters  with  miles  between  clusters.  Because  of 
this  rare  and  disjunct  status,  it  is  vulnerable  to 
depopulation  if  damage  occurs  in  a  small  area 


0-9.9 

0 

0 

0 

10-19.9 

1 

1 

8 

20-20.9 

1.37 

1-3 

77 

30-30.9 

1.69 

1-4 

107 

40-40.9 

2.47 

1-5 

52 

50+ 

3.60 

2-5 

3 

where  the  plant  grows.  The  plant  seems  to  have  a 
small  reproductive  capacity  (low  seed  production), 
so  that  any  great  increase  in  number  is  prevented 
even  during  favorable  weather.  In  the  study  plots 
or  transects,  a  big  increase  in  numbers  occurred  2 
to  3  times  within  the  last  9  years.  So  with  a  small 
population,  low  reproduction  potential,  and  its  en- 
vironment, it  appears  this  plant  wiU  remain  rare. 

This  species  is  maintaining  its  numbers  on 
the  Strip.  The  size  structure  at  the  Dutchman  and 
North  Canyon  plots  showed  dynamic  changes  in 
numbers.  At  Dutchman,  the  very  small  (0-4.9  mm) 
plants  had  peaks  in  1991  and  1993.  In  all  plots  and 
transects,  the  larger  cacti  are  predominant  and  are 


50 


Table  4.  Rainfall  1  year  previous  to  monitoring  of  the  Dutchman  Plot. 


Fall  Winter  Spring  Summer  Total 

Fall        Avg.      Winter       Avg.       Spring       Avg.      Summer     Avg.        Total  Avg. 


1987  1.84  1.75  2.32  2.91  2.35  2.43  3.06  3.53  9.57  10.61 
1991        .37      1.53         2.81         2.19  .90         2.01         1.53         3.29         5.61  9.02 

1993       1.91       1.52         5.84         2.38         3.45         2.16         2.02         3.24        13.22  9.30 


Table  5.  Rainfall  1  year  previous  to  monitoring  of  the  North  Canyon  Plot. 


FaU 

FaU 
Avg. 

Winter 

Winter 
Avg. 

Spring 

Spring 
Avg. 

Summer 

Summer 
Avg. 

Total 

Total 
Avg. 

1986 

1.60 

1.46 

2.12 

1.71 

.53 

1.44 

2.34 

3.00 

6.59 

7.61 

1990 

.12 

1.46 

2.30 

1.71 

* 

1.44 

5.35 

3.00 

7.77 

7.61 

1993 

.63 

1.46 

4.37 

1.71 

.93 

1.44 

1.20 

3.00 

7.13 

7.61 

^Vandalized 


more  stable.  The  dominance  of  the  10-20  mm  size 
class  at  Dutchman  seems  to  indicate  a  younger 
population.  Most  mortality  was  by  natural  means 
with  a  small  number  killed  by  man-induced  im- 
pacts— livestock.  The  lack  of  the  very  small  plants 
(0-4.9  mm)  may  or  may  not  be  a  problem,  as  this 
size  is  hard  to  find.  The  other  size  classes  have  had 
recruitment  through  the  years  from  somewhere,  so 
the  small  size  classes  are  present,  but  difficult  to 
locate.  The  fluctuation  in  number  appears  to  be 
weather  related  (see  Figures  1  and  2,  Tables  4  and 
5).  The  larger  plants  (30+  mm)  retract  under- 
ground less  frequently,  but  some  retract  in  long 
dry  spells.  Overall,  this  cactus  appears  to  be 
maintaining  itself  in  all  its  original  (since  1978) 
range  and  most  mortality  is  natural  with  a  small 
impact  from  livestock. 

Most  or  all  of  this  species'  range,  since  the 
1970s,  has  not  been  disturbed.  Populations  are 
located  next  to  the  Mainstreet  road  and  the  Mt. 
Trumbull  road.  Construction  of  these  roads  could 
have  disturbed  long-past  populations. 

The  major  potential  threats  to  this  cactus  from 
man-induced  activities  are  off-highway  vehicles 
and  livestock  trampling.  However,  the  resource 
management  plan  of  1992  restricting  vehicle  activ- 
ity to  existing  roads  and  trails  should  reduce  the 
threat  from  off-highway  activity  (USDI  1992). 
There  are  also  ranger  patrols  to  help  reduce  off- 
road  vehicle  activity.  Predation  by  rodents  and  old 
age  are  the  largest  causes  of  death  for  this  cactus. 


Most  of  these  mortality  factors  are  probably  nat- 
ural for  any  population  of  cacti.  Whether  the  occa- 
sional high  numbers  of  cacti  eaten  by  herbivores  is 
caused  by  livestock  grazing,  rodents  foraging 
during  drought  periods,  or  the  drought  reducing 
the  supply  of  preferred  forage  of  herbivores, 
cannot  be  ascertained.  Although  the  mortality  data 
demonstrates  some  disturbances  from  livestock 
trampling,  backcountry  plots  (North  Canyon), 
which  have  little  livestock  grazing  around  them, 
also  have  experienced  heavy  depredation.  The 
healthiest  and  densest  population  of  this  cactus 
(Dutchman)  occurs  within  a  quarter  of  a  mile  of  a 
reliable  livestock  water  tank.  The  livestock  use  the 
area  in  the  spring  and  fall  of  most  years.  This  pop- 
ulation has  also  experienced  heavy  depredation  in 
dry  years  and  the  cactus  thrived  in  other  years.  No 
preponderance  of  evidence  demonstrates  that 
man-induced  depredation  is  an  imminent  threat  to 
this  species. 

Currently,  through  state  law  and  policies  and 
BLM  policy,  there  are  adequate  regulatory  mech- 
anisms in  place  to  conserve  the  species.  BLM  con- 
serves this  species  under  a  policy  stated  in  Manual 
6840:  The  BLM  will  carry  out  management,  consistent 
with  the  principles  of  multiple  use,  for  the  conservation 
of  candidate  species  and  their  habitats  and  will  ensure 
that  actions  authorized,  funded,  or  carried  out  do  not 
contribute  to  the  need  to  list  any  species  as  T/E.  The 
will  to  carry  out  the  mechanism  also  exists.  Monit- 
oring of  this  species  is  in  place  and  we  are  increas- 


51 


ing  our  ability  to  detect  trends  in  size  structure, 
mortality,  fruiting,  and  recruitment  of  the  species. 
Projects  that  could  injure  the  species'  population 
are  precluded. 

This  species  needs  management  as  a  sensitive 
and  rare  plant.  The  population  study  of  this  plant 
shows  stability  with  years  of  increase  and  years  of 
decrease.  It  is  recommended  that  a  conservation 
agreement  be  prepared  to  develop  consensus  on 
practices  to  maintain  and  improve  this  species' 
population  to  prevent  listing. 


Literature  Cited 

Gierisch,  R.K.  1987.  Habitat  study  notes.  Special  status 
plants  files,  Arizona  Strip.  Loose  leaf  file. 

Phillips,  A.,  J.  Downs,  L.  and  S.  Green.  1979.  Habitat 
Study  Notes.  Special  Status  Plants  Files  Arizona 
Strip.  Loose  leaf  file. 

USDI,  Bureau  of  Land  Management.  1992.  Vermillion 
Resource  Area  Implementation  Plan  for  the  Arizona 
Strip  District,  Approved  Resource  Management  Plan. 

USDI,  Bureau  of  Land  Management.  1994.  Pediocactus 
peeblesianus  var.fickeiseniae  study  file,  Arizona  Strip 
District  special  status  plants  file.  Loose  leaf  files. 


52 


Morphological  Variation  Within  and  Among  Four 
Cimicifuga  arizonica  Populations 

LAURA  E.  DEWALD^  and  BARBARA  G.  PHILLIPS ^ 

■^Assistant  Professor,  School  of  Forestry,  Box  15018,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff  86011-5018 
•^Zone  Botanist,  Coconino,  Kaibab,  Prescott  Nat'l  Forests,  USPS,  2323  Greenlaw  Ln.,  Flagstaff,  AZ  86004 

Abstract:  Arizona  bugbane  {Cimicifuga  arizonica  Wats.),  a  rare  plant  with  narrow  habitat  re- 
quirements, exists  only  in  four  small  population  areas  in  Arizona.  Development  of  a  success- 
ful conservation  program  for  this  species  is  restricted  by  a  lack  of  biological,  ecological,  and 
genetic  information.  Maintenance  of  genetic  diversity  is  important  for  successful  species 
conservation,  yet  Arizona  bugbane  populations  have  likely  suffered  genetic  diversity  losses 
due  to  repeated  bottlenecks  resulting  from  flood-caused  mortality  in  their  riparian  habitats. 
Results  of  research  comparing  coarse  plant  morphology  within  and  among  populations  at 
four  sites  in  the  Oak  Creek  population  area  show  little  significant  variation  within  or  between 
populations.  This  apparent  lack  of  variation  at  the  phenotypic  level  will  be  further  evaluated 
at  the  genetic  level  through  the  use  of  electrophoretic  isozyme  analysis. 


Introduction 

Arizona  bugbane  {Cimicifuga  arizonica  Wats.)  is 
a  rare,  herbaceous,  perennial  plant  in  the  Ranun- 
culaceae.  It  is  the  only  species  of  Cimicifuga  in  Ari- 
zona. Four  population  areas  of  Arizona  bugbane 
have  been  located  in  Arizona  and  these  are  found 
only  in  the  Mogollon  Rim  area  of  central  Arizona, 
all  on  Forest  Service  land  (Phillips  and  Popowski 
1995). 

Arizona  bugbane  has  very  large  compound 
leaves,  and  flowering  plants  can  reach  heights  of  2 
meters.  The  stem  of  the  plant  terminates  in  long 
slender  racemes.  The  flowers  on  these  racemes  are 
small  and  white  with  no  petals  and  up  to  35  can  be 
found  in  bloom  on  any  one  raceme  (Figure  1)  from 
July  to  mid-September.  The  flowers  are  pollinated 
by  three  species  of  bumblebees,  with  the  peak 
flowering  in  early  August  coinciding  with  the 
peak  population  abundance  of  the  bumble  bee 
(Pellmyr  1985).  The  flowers  develop  into  short 
pedicellate  dehiscent  follicles  in  August  and  Sep- 
tember (Figure  1). 

Arizona  bugbane  grows  in  small,  scattered 
clumps  or  as  a  continuous  understory  in  the  eco- 
tone  between  coniferous  forests  and  riparian  areas. 
It  occurs  near  perennial  or  intermittent  streams, 
usually  between  1829  and  2529  meters  in  eleva- 
tion. The  habitat  requirements  for  this  species  ap- 
pear to  include  sites  of  high  humidity  with  moist, 
rich,  fertile  soils  that  are  high  in  humus  (Phillips 
and  Popowski  1995).  In  Arizona,  these  conditions 
are  typically  created  under  the  closed  canopies  of 
mixed  coniferous  forests  {Pseudotsuga  menziesii 
Mirb.  Franco  var.  glaiica  Beissn.  and  Abies  concolor 
Lindl.  &  Gord.  overstory;  Cornus,  Alnus,  and  Acer 


mid-canopy)  with  deciduous  shrub  understories 
and  are  most  often  found  in  the  riparian  areas  of 
steep,  narrow  canyons.  These  habitat  conditions 
tend  to  isolate  populations  of  Arizona  bugbane 
from  each  other. 

As  a  result  of  Arizona  bugbane's  limited  geo- 
graphic range,  combined  with  the  very  narrow 
habitat  restrictions  within  its  range,  it  is  listed  as  a 
Forest  Service  sensitive  species  and  is  currently  a 
category  1  candidate  for  federal  listing  as  threat- 
ened or  endangered  under  the  Endangered 
Species  Act  (Federal  Register  50,  6195,  1990).  In 
addition,  a  conservation  assessment  and  strategy 
plan  has  been  prepared  for  the  Coconino  and 
Kaibab  national  forests  by  Phillips  and  Popowski 
(1995).  Successful  conservation  programs  require  a 
thorough  understanding  of  a  species'  biology  and 
distribution  and  should  include  a  genetic  manage- 
ment program  as  well  (Meffe  and  Carroll  1994). 
Unfortunately,  little  is  known  about  Arizona 
bugbane  other  than  general  information  regarding 
habitat  descriptions  and  where  the  populations  are 
located,  along  with  limited  information  on  pollina- 
tion ecology  (Pellmyr  1985)  and  germination  (Ma- 
schinski,  personal  communication  1994). 

Effective  genetic  management  programs  in- 
clude protection  and  monitoring  of  between  as 
well  as  within-population  genetic  diversity  (Meffe 
and  Carroll  1994).  The  greatest  number  of  options 
for  species'  conservation  can  be  created  by  retain- 
ing genetic  diversity  through  the  maintenance  of 
as  many  populations  as  possible,  while  still  pre- 
serving natural  patterns  of  genetic  diversity  within 
and  between  these  populations.  This  genetic 
diversity  provides  the  flexibility  needed  to  evolve 


53 


Figure  1.  Cimicifuga  arizonica  (from  Phillips  and  Popowski  1995). 


54 


solutions  to  problems  such  as  outbreeding  depres- 
sion (decreased  fertility  and/ or  survival  of  off- 
spring of  hybrids  between  wild  and  captive  popu- 
lations) or  environmental  change  (Echelle  1991). 
Small,  isolated  populations  such  as  Arizona 
bugbane  tend  to  lose  genetic  variation  over  time 
due  to  founder  effects  (few  individuals  establish  a 
new  population),  demographic  bottlenecks  (severe 
temporary  reduction  in  population  size),  genetic 
drift  (random  loss  of  alleles  [alternative  forms  of 
genes]),  and  the  effects  of  inbreeding  (mating  of 
individuals  related  by  common  ancestry)  (Hartl 
and  Clark  1990).  Bottlenecks  intensify  genetic  drift 
and  are  considered  a  major  cause  of  loss  of  genetic 
variation  in  populations  (Brown  and  Moran  1981, 
Echelle  1991).  The  genetic  diversity  of  Arizona 
bugbane  has  likely  been  influenced  by  these 
factors  due  to  catastrophic  population  loss  from 
flooding  in  this  species'  canyon-bottom  habitat. 
The  1993  floods  decimated  three  of  five  popula- 
tions that  had  been  located  prior  to  the  floods  and 
left  other  populations  with  significantly  fewer 
plants.  Other  threats  such  as  heavy  spring  rain, 
snowmelt,  road  and  trail  construction,  grazing, 
and  recreation  also  put  entire  populations  at  risk 
(Phillips  and  Popowski  1995). 

Purpose  and  Objectives 

The  purpose  of  the  project  reported  here  was 
to  initiate  research  that  will  contribute  to  the  con- 
servation of  Arizona  bugbane  through  improved 
understanding  of  the  genetic  structure  of  the 
species.  The  specific  objectives  were  to: 

1.  Quantify  coarse  morphological  variation  be- 
tween and  within  populations  of  Arizona  bug- 
bane. 

Z  Use  this  phenotypic  information  to  develop  a 
sampling  scheme  for  subsequent  isozyme- 
based  quantification  of  genetic  diversity  within 
and  between  populations  of  Arizona  bugbane. 

3.  Use  the  phenotypic  and  genotypic  information 
in  the  development  of  conservation  manage- 
ment strategies. 
Only  the  first  objective  outlined  above  has  been 
completed  thus  far.  Therefore,  the  results  reported 
below  relate  only  to  morphological  variation 
found  within  and  between  four  populations  in  the 
Oak  Creek  population  area. 

Methods 

Four  sites  within  the  Oak  Creek  drainage 
population  in  the  Coconino  National  Forest  were 
selected  for  this  initial  study.  Figure  2  illustrates 


the  general  location  of  each  site.  Populations  were 
sampled  at  two  locations  along  the  West  Fork  of 
Oak  Creek  and  populations  were  also  sampled  in 
Pumphouse  Wash  and  in  Fry  Canyon.  Populations 
were  measured  in  Lower  West  Fork  on  July  20,  in 
Fry  Canyon  on  August  3,  in  Pumphouse  Wash  on 
August  9,  and  in  Upper  West  Fork  on  August  23. 
The  sampling  locations  were  all  relatively  isolated 
from  each  other  by  distance  or  by  geography.  Pop- 
ulations were  inventoried  within  each  sampling 
area  and  individuals  from  the  largest  continuous 
populations  at  each  site  were  selected  for  inclusion 
in  the  morphological  analyses.  Plants  from  two 
large  continuous  populations  were  randomly 
selected  and  measured  at  each  of  the  three  sites 
within  the  Upper  and  Lower  West  Fork  and 
Pumphouse  Wash  locations.  Fry  Canyon  had  three 
large  continuous  populations  from  which  plants 
were  randomly  selected  for  measurement. 

Data  collected  from  each  plant  included  (a) 
number  of  basal  leaves  originating  from  the  base 
of  the  stem  at  the  ground  line,  (b)  stem  caliper 
(mm)  measured  at  10  cm  above  the  ground  sur- 
face, (c)  height  (cm)  measured  from  the  ground 
surface  to  the  leaves  furthest  up  on  the  stem,  and 
(d)  number  of  racemes.  Attempts  to  quantify  the 
number  of  flowers  per  raceme  were  abandoned 
due  to  excessive  handling  of  the  reproductive 
structures. 

The  data  were  analyzed  within  a  site  (e.g., 
within  Fry  Canyon)  by  comparing  individuals 
from  the  continuous  populations  (three  popula- 
tions in  the  case  of  Fry  Canyon)  to  each  other. 
Variation  between  sites  was  analyzed  using 
within-site  population  means  (e.g.,  means  from  the 
three  Fry  Canyon  populations  were  compared  to 
population  means  from  the  other  locations).  Anal- 
yses of  variance  and  mean  separation  procedures 
were  utilized  to  evaluate  within  and  between-site 
morphological  variation.  In  addition,  all  analyses 
were  conducted  separately  for  flowering  versus 
nonflowering  plants  and  all  analyses  used  an 
alpha  level  of  0.05. 

Results 

Within-Site  Variation 
Results  of  the  within-population  analyses  of 
variance  are  summarized  in  Table  1.  In  general, 
most  of  the  analyses  indicated  no  significant 
differences  between  populations  within  a  site  for 
both  flowering  and  nonflowering  plants.  With  the 
exception  of  the  Upper  West  Fork  flowering 
plants,  Chi  square  analyses  of  the  distribution  of 
the  significant  differences  indicated  that  they  were 


55 


Flagstaff  5  Miles 


Prescott  4  miles 


Figure  2.  Approximate  Oak  Creek  Canyon  locations  of  Cimicifuga  arizonica  populations  sampled  in  this 
study  (locations  are  indicated  by  *). 


56 


Table  1.  Summary  of  analyses  of  variance  of  morphology  data  for  within-site  variation  for  four  Cimicifuga 
arizonica  locations  in  the  Oak  Creek,  Arizona  drainage  system.* 


Trait 


Lower 
West  Fork 


Fry 
Canyon 


Pumphouse 
Wash 


Upper 
West  Fork 


Flowering  plants 
Height  (cm) 
Caliper  (mm) 
Number  basal  leaves 
Number  racemes 

Nonflowering  plants 
Height  (cm) 
CaUper  (mm) 
Number  basal  leaves 


ns 
ns 
ns 
ns 


0.01 
ns 
ns 


0.05 
ns 
ns 

0.01 


ns 
0.05 
ns 


ns 

0.05 
ns 
ns 


ns 

ns 
0.01 


0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 


ns 
ns 
ns 


*ns  =  Within-site  variation  not  significant;  0.05  and  0.01  =  within-site  variation  significant  at  alpha  =  0.05  and  0.01, 
respectively. 


randomly  distributed  among  sites  and  traits.  The 
exception  to  this  random  distribution  occurred 
with  the  Upper  West  Fork  flowering  plants.  These 
two  populations  differed  significantly  from  each 
other  for  all  traits  measured. 

Analyses  of  flowering  versus  nonflowering 
plants  within  a  site  indicated  that  flowering  plants 
had  larger  stem  calipers  and  were  taller  than  the 
nonflowering  plants.  These  differences  were  signi- 
ficant at  all  sites.  In  addition,  flowering  plants  had 
significantly  more  basal  leaves  than  nonflowering 
plants  at  the  Lower  and  Upper  West  Fork  sites. 
The  number  of  basal  leaves  did  not  differ  signifi- 
cantly among  flowering  and  nonflowering  plants 
in  the  Pumphouse  Wash  and  Fry  Canyon  drain- 
ages (see  Figure  3). 

Between-Site  Variation 

Number  of  basal  leaves  ranged  from  a  low  of 
1-8  for  flowering  plants  and  up  to  10  for  nonflow- 
ering plants.  The  overall  average  number  of  basal 
leaves  was  2.4  (±  0.7)  for  flowering  plants  and  2.0 
(±  0.8)  for  nonflowering  plants.  The  mean  number 
of  basal  leaves  at  each  of  the  four  sites,  illustrated 
in  Figure  3a,  did  not  differ  significantly  between 
sites  for  flowering  plants  and  nonflowering  plants. 

Basal  caliper  ranged  from  2  to  15  mm  for 
flowering  plants  and  1  to  11  mm  for  nonflowering 
plants.  The  average  flowering  plant  caliper  was  8.0 
(±  1.5)  mm  and  differences  between  sites  illus- 
trated in  Figure  3b  were  not  significant.  The 
average  caliper  for  nonflowering  plants  was  4.0  (± 
1.2)  mm.  Differences  between  the  Lower  West 


Fork,  Fry  Canyon,  and  Pumphouse  Wash  popula- 
tions illustrated  in  Figure  3b  were  not  significant. 
However,  the  Upper  West  Fork  nonflowering 
plants  had  significantly  larger  stem  calipers  than 
populations  at  the  other  three  sites. 

Flowering  plant  heights  ranged  from  26  to  186 
cm  and  2  to  55  cm  for  nonflowering  plants.  The 
average  flowering  plant  height  was  108  (±  15)  cm 
and  differences  among  sites  illustrated  in  Figure  3c 
were  not  significant.  The  average  height  of  non- 
flowering plants  was  36  (±  10)  cm  and  differences 
between  the  Lower  West  Fork,  Fry  Canyon,  and 
Pumphouse  Wash  populations  illustrated  in  Fig- 
ure 3c  were  not  significant.  However,  the  Upper 
West  Fork  nonflowering  plants  were  significantly 
taller  than  populations  at  the  other  three  sites. 

The  number  of  racemes  per  plant  ranged  from 
1  to  16  with  an  overall  average  of  3.5  (±  1.3).  The 
differences  between  sites  illustrated  in  Figure  3d 
were  not  significant. 

Discussion 

Flowering  plants  were  larger  than  nonflower- 
ing plants.  Most  of  the  nonflowering  plants  ap- 
peared to  be  vegetative  in  origin,  sprouting  from 
the  rhizome  of  the  main  flowering  stem  and  likely 
younger  than  the  flowering  stem.  It  is  possible  that 
the  nonflowering  plants  lacked  the  maturity  to 
develop  floral  structures,  or  they  may  represent 
nonreproductive  structures  throughout  their  life 
cycle.  The  lack  of  significant  coarse  morphological 
differences  between  and  within  sites  indicates  low 
phenotypic  variation,  at  least  at  the  level  measured 


57 


in  this  study.  It  is  somewhat  surprising  that  ge- 
netic drift  and/ or  bottlenecks  have  not  resulted  in 
greater  differences  between  sites.  There  may  not 
have  been  enough  time  to  allow  for  drift,  or  the 
lack  of  differences  may  be  due  to  pollen  exchange 
between  the  four  sites  sampled  in  this  study.  In 
addition,  there  may  be  variation  that  is  occurring 
at  a  finer  morphological  level  than  was  surveyed 
in  this  study. 

Another  likely  cause  for  the  lack  of  differences 
found  between  sites  is  related  to  the  habitat  in 
which  Arizona  bugbane  was  found.  The  micro - 
environments  of  the  habitats  of  all  four  sites 
studied  were  very  comparable  and  since  the  traits 
examined  were  related  to  biomass,  similar  envi- 
ronmental conditions  resulted  in  plants  of  similar 
size.  The  only  consistent  significant  differences 
were  associated  with  the  Upper  West  Fork  site  and 
this  was  the  only  site  where  the  habitats  of  the  two 
populations  differed.  One  population  was  on  a 
north-facing  slope,  while  the  other  population  was 
on  a  south-facing  slope.  The  south-facing  site  was 
protected  enough  to  maintain  high  soil  moisture 
levels,  but  the  plants  receive  more  sunlight  and 
were  able  to  accumulate  more  biomass  than  those 
on  the  north-facing  slope,  resulting  in  within-site 
differences.  In  addition,  the  overall  mean  caliper 
and  height  of  the  Upper  West  Fork  nonflowering 
plants  was  strongly  influenced  by  the  larger-sized 
plants  in  the  population  on  the  south-facing  slope. 
When  the  population  on  the  south-facing  slope 
was  omitted  from  the  between-site  analyses,  the 
significant  differences  in  caliper  and  height  dis- 
appear. 

Whether  or  not  the  low  phenotypic  diversity  is 
reflected  in  the  genetic  makeup  of  these  plants  will 
be  examined  in  the  next  phase  of  this  research. 


Isozyme  analyses  will  be  used  to  quantify  levels  of 
heterozygosity  between  and  within  these  four 
sites.  In  addition,  further  morphological  research 
will  include  the  West  Clear  Creek  area  as  well  as 
the  populations  in  the  Bill  Williams  area.  It  would 
be  very  unlikely  that  pollen  exchange  is  occurring 
between  these  sites  and  the  Oak  Creek  population 
area,  and  the  results  should  yield  further  clues 
regarding  the  phenotypic  and  genetic  variability  of 
Cimicifiiga  arizonica  populations  in  Arizona.  If 
there  is  as  little  genetic  diversity  as  there  is  pheno- 
typic variation  in  the  Oak  Creek  populations,  con- 
servation strategies  to  improve  diversity  should  be 
considered. 

Literature  Cited 

Brown,  A.H.D.  and  G.F.  Moran.  1981.  Isozymes  and  the 
genetic  resources  of  forest  trees.  In  Proceedings  of  a 
Symposium  on  Isozymes  of  North  American  Tees 
and  Forest  Insects,  pp.  1-10.  USDA  Forest  Service 
General  Technical  Report  PSW-48. 

Echelle,  A. A.  1991.  Conservation  genetics  and  genetic 
diversity  in  freshwater  fishes  of  western  North 
America.  In  W.L.  Minckley  and  J.E.  Deacon,  editors. 
Battle  Against  Extinction:  Native  Fish  Management 
in  the  American  West,  pp.  141-153.  University  of 
Arizona  Press,  Tucson. 

Hartl,  D.L.  and  A.G.  Clark.  1990.  Principles  of  Popula- 
tion Genetics.  2nd  ed.  Sinauer  Associates,  Inc.,  Sun- 
derland, MA. 

Meffe,  G.K.  and  C.R.  Carroll.  1994.  Principles  of  Conser- 
vation Biology.  Sinauer  Associates,  Inc.  Sunderland 
MA.  600  pp. 

Pellmyr,  0. 1985.  Pollination  ecology  of  Cimicifiiga  arizo- 
nica (Ranunculaceae).  Botanical  Gazette  146:404-412. 

Phillips,  B.  and  Popowski  R.  1995.  Cimicifiiga  arizonica 
conservation  assessment  and  strategy  plan  for  the 
Coconino  and  Kaibab  national  forests.  USDA  Forest 
Service.  USDA  Forest  Service.  52  pp. 


59 


Analysis  of  Rumex  orthoneurus,  a  Rare  Species  in  Arizona, 
Using  RAPD  Markers  and  Polymorphisms  in  rbch 

ROBERT  L.  BELLSEY1'2  and  DAVID  MOUNT^ 

c/o  Dr.  Gloria  Montenegro,  Pontifica  Universidad  Catelica,  Depto.  Ecologia  Casille  114-D,  Santiago,  Chile 
■^Department  of  Molecular  and  Cellular  Biology,  University  of  Arizona,  Tucson,  AZ  85716 

Abstract:  We  examined  genetic  variation  in  five  populations  of  the  rare  Rumex  orthoneurus 
and  one  population  of  a  widespread  sister  taxon,  R.  occidentalis .  Populations  were  analyzed 
using  random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD)  markers  amplified  from  total  cellular 
DNA  extracts  to  determine  the  genetic  variation  within  and  among  populations.  Restriction 
endonuclease  digestions  of  chloroplast  DNA  (cpDNA)  amplification  products  were  also 
performed  in  an  attempt  to  identify  distinctive  restriction  site  or  fragment  length  differences. 
Thus  far,  these  molecular  data  suggest  that  R.  orthoneurus  and  R.  occidentalis  are  genetically 
distinct  and  variation  occurs  among  the  different  Sky-Island  populations.  A  lack  of  variation 
in  RAPD  banding  patterns  within  populations  of  R.  orthoneurus  suggests  long-term  isolation, 
a  conclusion  that  is  corroborated  by  cpDNA  data. 


Introduction 

Studies  of  the  Chiricahua  or  Blumer's  Dock, 
Rumex  orthoneurus  Rech.  f.  (Polygonaceae),  exem- 
plify how  problems  with  taxonomic  delineation 
can  be  critical  for  the  status  and  preservation  of  a 
rare  plant.  In  addition,  southern  Arizona  presents 
a  unique  opportunity  to  study  the  population 
genetics  of  taxa  whose  habitats  have  become  frag- 
mented through  geologic  time.  The  Sky-Islands  of 
the  Madrean  Archipelago  represent  geographical- 
ly separated  but  comparable  habitats  that  contain 
reproductively  isolated  populations  of  rare  plants, 
such  as  the  Chiricahua  Dock,  R.  orthoneurus ,  and 
its  commonly  occurring  close  relative,  R.  occiden- 
talis Wats.  This  species  manifests  two  common 
issues  in  conservation  biology:  monophyly  and 
taxonomic  ranking,  and  the  consequences  of 
rarity. 

Rarity  in  Plants 

As  a  species  becomes  rare,  several  problems 
that  are  associated  with  small  population  sizes  can 
arise.  Genetic  drift,  the  random  loss  of  variation 
resulting  from  erratic  mating  patterns  in  small 
populations,  can  reduce  genetic  variation  and 
therefore  environmental  adaptability  in  the  af- 
fected populations.  Instability  due  to  stochastic 
events  may  lead  to  an  increase  in  the  probability  of 
extinction.  Inbreeding,  as  a  result  of  limited  num- 
bers of  individuals  remaining  in  the  population, 
may  lead  to  inbreeding  depression  effects  such  as 
decreased  fitness  and/or  fecundity.  Managing 
agencies,  such  as  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Ser- 
vice, historically  advocate  protection  by  isolation 
or  captive  propagation,  which  may  increase  the 


genetic  consequences  of  rarity.  Captive  breeding 
often  lowers  the  effective  population  size  by 
increasing  the  number  of  individuals  derived  from 
only  a  few  sets  of  parents.  Translocation  to  new 
habitats  (especially  in  the  case  of  plants)  may 
compound  the  decline  of  genetic  variability  and 
population  structure  by  introducing  new  selective 
environmental  pressures,  as  organisms  may  be- 
come locally  adapted  to  a  particular  environment. 
Selection  in  combination  with  a  reduction  in  popu- 
lation size  (by  human  or  stochastic  influences) 
could  eliminate  adaptive  variability;  introducing 
endangered  plants  to  an  unnatural  environment 
might  disrupt  evolutionary  processes.  Another 
way  that  responsible  agencies  may  try  to  increase 
levels  of  genetic  variability  is  by  combining  plants 
from  different  populations.  If  this  species  is 
adapted  to  low  genetic  variability,  the  population 
may  suffer  what  is  known  as  outbreeding  depres- 
sion, which  results  from  crossing  organisms  that 
are  too  distantly  related  (Templeton  1986,  Purdy  et 
al.  1994). 

The  field  of  conservation  biology  must  take 
into  consideration  knowledge  about  the  genetic 
distinctiveness  of  the  endangered  species  or  taxon. 
A  way  to  elaborate  on  this  issue  is  to  examine  the 
genetic  structure  of  the  population(s)  and  to  also 
include  a  systematics  approach  involving  the 
relationship  or  phylogenetics  of  that  taxon  and  its 
close  relatives.  Information  regarding  close  rela- 
tives can  establish  the  significance  of  the  degree  of 
genetic  diversity  and  distinctiveness  of  the  popula- 
tions at  stake.  This  can  also  allow  us  to  determine 
whether  they  are  recent  derivatives  from  common 
species  or  simply  relict  populations. 


60 


Description  of  Rumex 

Rumex  orthoneunis  is  a  monecious  perennial 
that  is  capable  of  clonal  propagation.  It  is  re- 
stricted to  montane  riparian  habitats  along  stable 
streams.  Each  geographic  population  or  "meta- 
population"  (Levins  1970)  is  further  divided  along 
perennial  streams.  Understanding  the  degree  to 
which  populations  are  subdivided  may  help  de- 
termine the  overall  health  of  each  metapopulation. 
The  habitats  of  R.  orthoneunis  are  threatened  by 
numerous  human  activities,  such  as  recreation, 
logging,  cattle,  development,  or  watershed  mis- 
management (Rutman  1992),  each  of  which  by 
interrupting  gene  flow  may  lead  to  further  iso- 
lation. In  addition,  this  taxon  closely  resembles  the 
widespread  species  R.  occidentalis,  which  raises  a 
question  about  the  taxonomic  significance  of  the 
five  populations  of  R.  orthoneurus. 

The  morphological  characters  of  many  species 
o(  Rumex  overlap  (e.g.,  R.  orthoneurus,  R.  hymen- 
osepalus,  R.  nematopodus,  R.  densiflorus,  R.  conglom- 
eratus,  R.  crispus,  R.  obtusifolius,  R.  violascens  and  R. 
fueginus),  such  that  botanists  have  difficulty  identi- 
fying specimens  without  knowledge  of  the  locality 
of  the  plants.  The  best  characters  for  identifying  a 
specimen  are  those  of  the  valves,  but  even  these 
are  often  confusing  and  require  the  plants  to  be 
both  mature  and  flowering.  Molecular  characters 
could  be  of  great  utility  in  determining  the  true 
relations  among  the  species.  However,  when  using 
molecular  data  for  phylogenetic  analyses,  out- 
groups  must  be  included  to  provide  an  evolution- 
ary perspective  on  the  data.  We  use  R.  obtusifolius , 
a  European  dock  that  is  distantly  related  to  R. 
orthoneurus  and  occidentalis,  collected  from  the 
Huachuca  Mountains  (Cochise  County),  as  our 
outgroup. 

Why  Use  Molecular  Data? 

The  application  of  DNA  technology  is  a  fairly 
recent  innovation  in  the  area  of  population  and 
conservation  biology.  Some  techniques,  such  as 
random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD), 
microsatellites,  sequencing,  and  restriction  frag- 
ment length  polymorphism,  have  the  advantage  of 
being  able  to  detect  greater  levels  of  polymorph- 
ism than  isozymes  (different  allelic  forms  of 
enzymes)  (Avise  and  Nelson  1988,  Riesberg  and 
EUstrand  1993)  and  provide  levels  of  resolution 
unavailable  by  morphometric  or  other  protein 
analyses.  For  instance,  an  isozyme  analysis  of 
Lactoris  femandeziana  Phil.  (Lactoridaceae)  revealed 
no  variation  among  organisms  (Crawford  et  al. 


1991)  ,  whereas  significant  levels  of  variation  were 
found  with  the  RAPD  technique  (Brauner  et  al. 

1992)  .  The  polymerase  chain  reaction  (PCR)  is  a 
powerful  tool  that  allows  an  investigator  to  obtain 
large  quantities  of  DNA  with  very  little  source 
material  (Welsh  and  McClelland  1990,  Williams  et 
al.  1990).  Using  a  primer  of  a  certain  sequence,  a 
specific  gene  or  region  may  be  targeted  for  ampli- 
fication by  Taq  polymerase,  an  enzyme  that  recog- 
nizes these  primers. 

The  RAPD  technique  is  a  variation  of  PCR.  A 
10  base  pair  primer  of  random  sequence  is  used  to 
amplify  many  different  DNA  fragments  from 
throughout  the  target  genome.  The  amplified 
fragments  are  subsequently  separated  via  gel 
electrophoresis  to  produce  a  particular  banding 
pattern.  Patterns  and  specific  bands  can  become 
markers  for  individuals,  populations,  or  species. 
The  RAPD  technique  provides  a  great  number  of 
markers  to  assess  close  relationships.  For  RAPD 
markers,  the  percent  of  bands  shared  provides  an 
estimate  of  genetic  relatedness  (Marsolais  et  al. 

1993)  .  Genetic  distances  can  be  calculated  to  create 
a  dendrogram  by  using  the  neighbor-joining 
algorithm  (Saitou  and  Nei  1987).  Genetic  diversity 
that  occurs  within  and  between  these  populations 
can  be  determined  by  calculating  the  percent  of 
polymorphic  loci  that  occur  as  well  as  unbiased 
heterogeneity  per  polymorphic  locus  (Nei  1972, 
Nei  and  Li  1979).  This  technique  has  been  used  to 
elucidate  genetic  relationships  and  diversity  in 
plants  (Welsh  and  McClelland  1990,  Williams  et  al. 
1990),  including  rare  plant  species  (Brauner  et  al. 
1992,  Dawson  et  al.  1993,  Reisberg  and  EUstrand 
1993).  RAPD  markers  have  even  been  applied  to 
detecting  genetic  variations  that  were  correlated 
with  geographical  and  ecological  variables  (Daw- 
son et  al.  1993). 

Chloroplast  markers  have  been  used  exten- 
sively to  assess  relationships  among  plant  species 
(Palmer  et  al.  1988).  Chloroplast  markers  are 
generally  useful  for  investigating  putative  hybridi- 
zation events,  where  conflicting  nuclear  and 
chloroplast  phytogenies  may  result  from  the 
maternal  inheritance  of  the  chloroplast  (Delgado  et 
al.  1993,  Bremmer  1991,  Jansen  et  al.  1991,  Ishii  and 
Tsuniwaki  1991).  Restriction  site  mapping  of 
chloroplast  DNA  (cpDNA)  offers  good  resolution 
for  studying  systematics  below  the  family  level 
(Bremmer  1991,  Palmer  et  al.  1988).  The  ribulose 
1,5  bisphosphate  carboxylase/oxygenase  gene 
(rbcL)  has  been  exploited  extensively  to  study 
phylogenetic  relationships,  as  it  is  highly  con- 
served. However,  we  have  learned  that  rbcL  is 


61 


the  Huachuca  Mountains,  Cochise  County,  Ari- 
zona. Riimex  crispiis  was  sampled  from  the  Rillito 
River  drainage  in  Tucson,  Pima  County,  Arizona. 
Rumex  orthoneurus  was  sampled  from  the  type 
locality  at  Rustler  Park  in  the  Chiricahua  Moun- 
tains, Cochise  County,  as  well  as  from  Workman 
Creek  in  the  Sierra  Ancha  Wilderness,  Gila  Coun- 
ty, Mount  Graham  in  the  Pinalefio  Mountains, 
Graham  County,  and  the  Phelps  Botanical  area  in 
the  White  Mountains,  Apache  County.  DNA  was 
isolated  from  plant  leaves  using  the  procedure  of 
Doyle  and  Doyle  (1990),  except  that  the  CTAB 
extraction  step  was  repeated. 

RAPD  PCR 

Seventeen  decanucleotide  primers,  purchased 
from  Operon  Technologies  (Alameda  CA),  were 
used  to  amplify  fragments  from  genomic  DNA 
(Table  1).  PCR  reaction  mixtures  contained  25  ng 
DNA,  10  mM  Tris-HCl  (pH  8.3),  50  mM  KCl,  1.5 
mM  MgCl2,  0.01%  w/v  gelatin,  50  jiM  each  dATP, 
dCTP,  dGTP,  dTTP,  one  unit  Taq  polymerase 
(Stratagene)  and  0.5  mM  primer,  with  a  total 
reaction  volume  of  30  |J.L.  Reactions  were  carried 
out  in  a  Cetus/Perkin-Elmer  thermocycler  under 
the  following  reaction  conditions:  94°C  for  3  min- 
utes, followed  by  45  cycles  of  94°C  for  1  minute, 
36°C  for  1  minute,  and  72°C  for  2  minutes,  ending 
with  1  cycle  of  72°C  for  5  minutes  as  described  by 
Williams  et  al.  1993.  The  amplified  products  were 
then  size-fractionated  on  a  1.4%  agarose  gel  con- 
taining ethidium  bromide  and  visualized  under 
UV  light. 

Table  1.  List  of  RAPD  primers  used. 


uninformative  in  the  study  of  relationships  within 
R.  orthoneurus  populations.  The  intergenic  spacer 
region  (IGS)  between  the  rbcL  gene  and  ORF106  of 
the  chloroplast  genome  is  an  area  of  greater  varia- 
tion than  rbcL  (Arnold  et  al.  1991).  These  nontran- 
scribed  regions  of  DNA  are  often  found  to  have 
more  variability  because  of  their  lack  of  coding 
importance.  Chloroplast  markers,  like  any  other 
genes,  are  easily  amplified  by  PCR  as  many 
primers  are  well  conserved  among  taxa  (Demesure 
et  al.  1995). 

As  both  methods  of  study  rely  on  PCR-based 
techniques,  the  need  for  plant  material  is  mini- 
mized. This  is  particularly  advantageous  when 
limited  occurrences  of  endangered  or  rare  species 
restricts  the  collection  of  tissue.  Our  laboratory 
uses  a  molecular  approach  to  work  on  problems 
facing  rare  plants.  We  use  PCR  to  study  species 
delineation  in  a  taxon  where  the  specific  classifi- 
cation of  a  certain  population  whose  identity  is  in 
doubt  will  affect  the  implementation  of  manage- 
ment programs. 

To  address  these  issues,  we  investigate  the 
geographic  distribution  of  genetic  variation  within 
and  among  populations  of  both  the  rare  and  wide- 
spread species.  We  examine  the  genetic  structure 
of  the  widespread  congener  as  a  model  to  predict 
the  appropriate  measures  for  conservation  (Ham- 
rick  et  al.  1991).  Preservation  strategies  may  be 
improved  by  an  understanding  of  the  genetic 
variability  present  within  the  species,  R.  ortho- 
neurus in  the  present  case.  Likewise,  an  under- 
standing of  the  uniqueness  of  its  genetic  consti- 
tution in  comparison  to  close  congeners,  such  as  R. 
occidentalis,  will  be  useful  to  managers  and  system- 
atists  concerned  with  phylogenetic  relationships. 

Methods 

Plant  Collections 

Plants  were  collected  from  five  populations 
within  Arizona.  Plants  were  sampled  at  1  km 
intervals  along  any  drainage.  Voucher  specimens 
were  made  from  root  cuttings  that  were  propa- 
gated in  a  greenhouse  to  avoid  sacrificing  an  entire 
plant,  or  from  individual  leaves.  At  the  conclusion 
of  these  studies,  voucher  specimens  will  be  depos- 
ited at  the  University  of  Arizona  herbarium  (UA). 
Leaf  material  was  collected  and  stored  on  ice  until 
transferred  to  a  -70°C  freezer  in  our  laboratory  at 
the  University  of  Arizona  in  Tucson.  Rumex  occi- 
dentalis is  represented  from  a  population  near 
Ferncliff,  Boulder  County,  Colorado.  Rumex 
obtusifolius  was  sampled  from  Ramsey  Canyon  in 


Primer 

Sequences'  — >3' 

Primer 

Sequence  5'  — >  3' 

OPF-03 

CCTGATCACC 

OPG-14 

GGATGAGACC 

OPF-05 

CCGAATTCCC 

OPG-15 

ACTGGGACTC 

OPF-06 

GGGAATTCGG 

OPG-16 

AGCGTCCTCC 

OPF-13 

GGCTGCAGGT 

OPG-17 

ACGACCGACA 

OPG-07 

GAACCTGCGG 

OPH-01 

GGTCGGAGAA 

OPG-08 

TCACGTCCAC 

OPH-09 

TGTAGCTGGG 

OPG-09 

CTGACGTCAC 

OPH-11 

CTTCCGCAGT 

OPG-12 

CAGCTCACGA 

OPH-17 

CACTCTCCTC 

OPG-13 

CTCTCCGCCA 

cpDNA  Analysis 

Identification  of  cpDNA  markers  for  R.  ortho- 
neurus, R.  occidentalis,  and  R.  obtusifolius  involved 
the  use  of  oligonucleotide  primers  homologous  to 
the  region  containing  the  intergenic  spacer  be- 
tween rfccL  and  ORF106  (rfocL,  Z1264,  5'-GTAGCTT 
TAGAAGCCTGTGTACAAGCTCGTAA;  ORF106, 
5'-ACTACAGATCTCATACTACCCC-3',  Arnold  et 


62 


al.  1991).  The  Z1264  primer  is  identical  to  positions 
1264-1296  of  the  Zea  mays  rbcL  gene.  The  ORF106 
primer  is  identical  to  the  Oryza  sativa  conserved 
open  reading  frame  ORF106  (Arnold  et  al.  1991). 
PCR  reaction  mixtures  (100  |iL)  contained  10  mM 
Tris  HCl  (pH  8.3),  50  mM  KCl,  1.5  mM  MgCl2, 
0.001%  gelatin,  0.1  mM  each  dATP,  dCTP,  dGTP, 
and  dTTP,  and  2.5  units  of  Taq  polymerase  (Strat- 
agene).  Reactions  were  carried  out  in  a  Cetus/Per- 
kin-Elmer  thermocycler  under  the  following 
reaction  conditions:  94°C  for  1  minute,  followed  by 
35  cycles  of  94°C  for  1  minute,  56°C  for  1  minute, 
and  72°C  for  4  minutes,  ending  with  1  cycle  of 
72°C  for  7  minutes.  Amplified  DNA  products  from 
six  plants  from  each  of  the  five  populations  of  R. 
orthoneurus  listed  above  and  six  R.  occidentalis  and 
R.  obtusifolius  plants  were  digested  by  23  restric- 
tion endonuclease  enzymes. 

Calculating  Genetic  Distance 

The  RAPD  banding  patterns  were  used  to  cal- 
culate genetic  distances  between  all  pairs  of  plants, 
using  the  formula  Dxy  =  1  -  (nXY  /  nX  +  nY  - 
nXY),  where  nXY  is  the  number  of  shared  bands 
between  plants  X  and  Y,  nX  is  the  number  of 
bands  present  in  plant  X,  and  nY  is  the  number  of 
bands  present  in  plant  Y  (Marsolais  et  al.  1993). 
The  pairwise  genetic  distances  were  then  used  to 
create  a  dendrogram  showing  the  relationship 
between  individual  plants  using  the  neighbor- 
joining  algorithm  from  the  Phylip  suite  (Felsen- 
stein  1993).  Rumex  obtusifolius ,  collected  from  the 
Huachuca  Mountains  in  southern  Arizona,  was 
used  as  an  outgroup.  Figure  1  is  a  dendrogram 
suggesting  the  historical  relationships  among  the 
populations  of  R.  orthoneurus  to  each  other,  R. 
occidentalis,  and  R.  obtusifolius.  Banding  patterns 
were  almost  uniform  among  plants  from  in- 
dividual populations  (Bellsey  and  Mount,  in 
preparation). 

Results  and  Discussion 

RAPD  Analysis 

The  RAPD  data  suggest  variability  among  the 
different  populations  and  species  of  Rumex  tested, 
but  very  little  variation  within  the  populations. 
Four  plants  from  a  closely  and  a  distantly  related 
species  of  Rumex  were  included  in  this  RAPD 
analysis  (e.g.,  R.  occidentalis  and  R.  obtusifolius 
respectively).  The  dendrogram  (Figure  1)  suggest- 
ing the  relationships  among  various  groups 
indicates  that  the  plants  from  Arizona  (other  than 
the  alien  R.  obtusifolius)  are  significantly  different 


from  R.  occidentalis.  Each  of  the  three  species  share 
less  than  15  percent  of  their  marker  loci.  The  more 
distantly  related  two  species  are,  the  less  probable 
that  marker  loci  are  identical  by  descent.  There- 
fore, it  stands  to  reason  that  beyond  a  certain 
genetic  distance  individuals  will  share  a  certain 
fraction  of  their  markers  by  chance  (i.e.,  identical 
in  state,  not  by  descent).  These  data  would  indi- 
cate a  significant  degree  of  divergence  between 
similar  species;  however  we  conclude  that  RAPDs 
are  not  suitable  for  determining  the  phylogenetic 
relationships  among  species  of  Rumex.  By 
comparison,  a  study  by  van  Buren  and  colleagues 
(1994)  demonstrated  the  relationship  between  the 
endangered  autumn  buttercup  {Ranunculus 
acriformis  var.  aestivalis)  and  close  congeners  using 
RAPDs.  Based  on  the  results  of  their  analyses  and 
on  a  review  of  ecological  and  morphological 
characters,  they  elevated  the  autumn  buttercup  to 
the  species  rank  as  R.  aestivalis,  which  has  direct 
implications  for  its  protection  and  management. 

RAPD  analysis  also  demonstrates  that  plants 
from  the  White  Mountain  population  are  related 
to  other  plants  from  Arizona  and  not  R.  occi- 
dentalis, which  they  resemble  morphologically. 
Analysis  using  the  neighbor-joining  algorithm 
(Saitou  and  Nei  1987)  indicates  10-20  percent 
differentiation  among  populations.  The  greatest 
amount  of  RAPD  variation  resides  among  the 
metapopulations;  46  of  203  RAPD  loci  surveyed 
are  polymorphic.  The  analysis  indicates  that  the 
closest  relationships  among  populations  of  R. 
orthoneurus  are  between  Workman  Creek  (Sierra 
Ancha  Wilderness  Area)  and  Mount  Graham 
(Pinaleho  Mountains),  and  the  Fluachuca  and 
Chiricahua  mountains  (see  Figure  1).  Genetically 
speaking,  the  White  Mountain  population  was  the 
most  distantly  related  population. 

To  determine  the  amount  of  genetic  variation 
within  populations,  between  140  and  180  loci  were 
surveyed  from  8-15  plants  per  population  of  R. 
orthoneurus.  Less  than  15  percent  of  the  loci  are 
polymorphic  (Table  2).  The  limited  variation  ob- 
served within  each  population  of  R.  orthoneurus 
may  be  attributed  to  extensive  inbreeding  or 
clonal  propagation  (Brauner  et  al.  1992,  Dawson  et 
al.  1993,  Reisberg  and  Ellstrand  1993,  Welsh  and 
McClelland  1991).  An  alternate  hypothesis  is  that 
the  plants  are  outcrossing  but  a  low  level  of  genet- 
ic variation  within  the  populations  is  common  for 
this  species  of  Rumex.  The  divergence  between 
populations  of  R.  orthoneurus  may  be  due  to  genet- 
ic drift  or  selection  in  the  context  of  adaptation  to 
local  environments. 


63 


IGS  Length  (bp)     Restriction  Site  Changes 


 R.  occidentalis  1661  HaeJU. 

(Ferncliff,  Colorado) 

 R.  obtusifolius  1647  Hae  IH 

(Huachuca  Mountains) 

R.  orthoneurus  1641  Hae  HI 

(Chiricahua  Mountains) 

—R.  orthoneurus  1671 
(Pinaleno  Mountains) 

 R.  orthoneurus  1671 

(Sierra  Ancha  Wilderness) 


R.  orthoneurus  1641  Hae  EI 

(White  Mountains) 


(Pat  Scott  Canyon) 

R.  orthoneurus  1641  Hae  IE 

(Huachuca  Mountains) 

(Scheelite  Canyon) 


Figure  1.  Using  17  RAPD  primers  we  generated  approximately  200  markers.  Percentage  of  bands  shared 
provides  a  rough  estimate  of  genetic  relatedness  (Marsolais  et.  al.  1993)  which  was  used  to  calculate  the 
genetic  distance  between  individuals  (Nei  1972;  Nei  and  Li  1979)  which  we  used  to  create  this 
dendrogram  using  the  Neighbor  Joining  algorithm  (Saitou  and  Nei  1987).  Individuals  are  nested  within 
their  respective  populations.  The  congener  R.  occidentalis  shares  less  than  15%  of  it's  RAPD  markers  with 
R.  orthoneurus.  The  length  of  the  3'  spacer  of  r&cL(IGS)  and  restiction  site  changes  are  listed  next  to  their 
respective  populations. 


64 


Table  2.  RAPD  variation  within  populations  of 
Rumex  orthoneunis  (percent  variable  bands). 


Number  Number  Percent 

Population  of  Plants  of  Loci       Variable  Loci 


Chiricahua 

11 

121 

3.6 

Huachuca 

8 

120 

5.8 

Pinaleno 

5 

129 

0.6 

Sierra  Ancha 

10 

144 

4.5 

White  Mountains 

15 

137 

16.6 

cpDNA  Analysis 

The  amplification  products  of  IGS  from  the 
different  species  of  Rumex  were  =  1600  bp  long. 
Twenty-three  restriction  enzymes  were  used  to 
digest  the  IGS  from  three  species  of  Rumex.  Most 
enzymes  produced  identical  restriction  patterns, 
except  for  five  that  produced  patterns  whose  smal- 
ler fragments  were  of  varying  lengths  between  the 
taxa.  The  lengths  of  the  spacer  region  from  each 
group  was  determined.  One  restriction  site  differ- 
ence was  found  in  R.  orthoneurus  from  one  geo- 
graphic region  (see  Figure  1). 

The  cpDNA  analyses  of  R.  obtusifolius  and  R. 
occidentalis,  as  well  as  the  various  populations  of  R. 
orthoneurus,  provide  length  and  site  polymorph- 
isms that  are  consistent  within  each  group.  The 
varying  lengths  of  the  spacer  region,  as  well  as  the 
one  Hae  III  site  polymorphism,  are  not  enough  to 
indicate  a  phylogenetic  relationship  among  these 
groups,  but  can  corroborate  certain  associations 
suggested  by  the  RAPD  data.  It  is  interesting  to 
note  that  the  plants  from  the  White  Mountains 
population  shared  the  same  profile  as  the  plants 
from  the  Huachuca  and  Chiricahua  mountains 
and  not  that  of  R.  occidentalis,  suggesting  that  these 
plants  are  historically  related  to  R.  orthoneurus. 
This  classification  had  previously  been  in  doubt. 
Plants  from  Mount  Graham  and  Sierra  Anchas 
share  the  same  IGS  fragment  length  and  the  only 
site  polymorphism,  which  concurs  with  the  rela- 
tionship suggested  by  the  RAPD  data.  The  loss  or 
gain  of  a  restriction  site  may  be  caused  by  as  little 
as  a  single  mutation  of  one  nucleotide.  Changes  in 
the  length  of  a  sequence,  such  as  IGS,  may  be  due 
to  multiple  mutations  over  time.  This  uncertainty 
makes  it  difficult  to  assess  the  significance  of  such 
length  variations;  however,  since  the  polymorph- 
isms are  consistent  for  all  plants  examined  within 
a  population,  the  differences  between  populations 
(and  species)  corroborate  the  RAPD  data. 


Conclusions  and  Suggestions 

RAPD  and  cpDNA  data  would  suggest  that 
the  plants  from  southeastern  Arizona  share  a 
common  ancestry  or  have  previously  undergone 
genetic  exchange.  These  techniques  have  provided 
an  enhanced  understanding  of  the  relationships 
among  these  plants.  Several  points  should  be 
considered  as  a  result  of  these  data.  It  may  be 
important  to  maintain  the  genetic  integrity  of  the 
different  populations  of  R.  orthoneurus .  If  popula- 
tions are  differentiating  genetically,  then  trying  to 
enhance  the  genetic  variability  within  populations 
by  transplantation  (1)  will  homogenize  the  species 
and  (2)  might  interrupt  evolutionary  processes 
(speciation)  and  potentially  disrupt  co-adapted 
gene  complexes.  On  the  other  hand,  if  it  becomes 
evident  that  population  size  and  health  is  waning, 
new  populations,  created  in  extirpated  habitats  by 
combining  plants  from  various  subpopulations 
within  a  single  geographic  region,  might  be  a 
suitable  alternative.  A  consideration  is  that  once 
plants  from  different  populations  are  combined, 
several  generations  would  have  to  pass  for  the 
genetics  to  be  sorted  out.  Unfortunately,  little  is 
know  about  the  longevity  or  phenology  of  this 
species. 

Populations  of  R.  orthoneurus  such  as  the  Black 
River  population  in  the  White  Mountains  with 
thousands  of  plants  distributed  along  the  main 
stem  and  tributaries  (personal  observation)  or  SA 
Creek  in  the  Gila  National  Forest  with  less  than 
100  plants  (personal  observation),  harbor  varying 
amounts  of  genetic  variation.  It  would  be  impos- 
sible to  carry  out  investigations  similar  to  the 
present  one  on  each  population  and  subpopula- 
tion.  It  may  prove  more  useful  to  understand  the 
genetic  properties  of  a  species  whose  habitat  is 
rare  and  highly  structured.  An  investigation  of 
whether  geographic  populations  are  genetically 
structured  along  their  regional  habitats  may 
provide  an  understanding  of  the  importance  of 
interaction  or  isolation  of  extant  populations  and 
of  maintaining  the  continuity  of  these  habitats, 
which  understanding  can  be  subsequently  applied 
to  the  management  and  preservation  of  the  eco- 
systems and  natural  processes. 

It  is  important  to  understand  the  population 
genetic  structure  of  rare  and  threatened  species, 
because  genetic  diversity  is  considered  to  correlate 
with  adaptive  capacity  (Les  et  al.  1991).  It  is  true 
that  the  relationships  between  molecular,  genetic, 
and  ecological  data  are  poorly  understood  (Learn 
and  Schaal  1987,  Schemske  et  al.  1994),  as  is  the 


65 


adaptive  significance  of  molecular  polymorphisms 
(Lewontin  1974,  Koehn  and  Hilbish  1987).  How- 
ever, as  we  begin  to  comprehend  these  relation- 
ships, we  develop  better  ways  to  cope  with  the 
problems  associated  with  conserving  endangered 
species  and  biodiversity  in  general.  Correlating 
information  from  these  analyses  with  ecological 
data  is  useful  in  developing  a  strategy  for  conser- 
vation and  will  serve  as  an  important  model  for 
other  taxa  whose  habitats  are  similarly  threatened. 

Literature  Cited 

Arnold,  M.,  C.  Buckner  and  J.  Robinson.  1991.  Pollen- 
mediated  introgression  and  hybrid  speciation  in 
Louisiana  irises.  Proceedings  of  the  National  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences  USA  88:1398-1402. 

Avise,  J.  and  W.  Nelson.  1988.  Molecular  genetic  rela- 
tionships of  the  extinct  dusky  seaside  sparrow. 
Science  243:646-648. 

Brauner,  S.,  D.  Crawford,  and  T.  Stuessy.  1992.  Ribo- 
somal  and  RAPD  variation  in  the  rare  plant  family 
Lactoridaceae.  American  Journal  of  Botany  79:1436- 
1439. 

Bremmer,  B.  1991.  Restriction  data  from  chloroplast 
DNA  for  phylogenetic  reconstruction:  Is  there  only 
one  accurate  way  of  scoring?  Plant  Systematics  and 
Evolution  175:39-54. 

Crawford,  D.,  D.  Wiens  and  D.  Haines.  1991.  The  Lac- 
toridaceae on  Juan  Fernandez  Islands:  Enzyme 
electrophoresis,  and  new  observations  on  number 
and  sizes  of  populations.  American  Journal  of  Botany 
78:176  (abstract). 

Dawson,  I.,  K.  Chalmers,  R.  Waugh  and  W.  Powell. 
1993.  Detection  and  analysis  of  genetic  variation  in 
Hordeum  spontaneiim  populations  from  Israel  using 
RAPD  markers.  Molecular  Ecology  2:151-159. 

Delgado-Salinas,  A.,  A.  Bruneau  and  J.  Doyle.  1993. 
Chloroplast  DNA  phylogenetic  studies  in  new  world 
Phaseolinae  (Leguminosae:  Papilionoideae:  Phaseo- 
leae).  Systematic  Botany  18:6-17. 

Demesure,  B.,  N.  Sodzi  and  R.  Petit.  1995.  A  set  of 
universal  primers  for  amplification  of  polymorphic 
non-coding  regions  of  mitochondrial  and  chloroplast 
DNA  in  plants.  Molecular  Ecology  4:129-130. 

Doyle,  J.  and  J.  Doyle.  1990.  Isolation  of  plant  DNA  from 
fresh  tissue.  Focus  12:13-15. 

Felsenstein,  J.  1993.  PHYLIP  (Phylogeny  Inference  Pack- 
age), version  3.5c.  Distributed  by  the  author.  Dept.  of 
Genetics,  University  of  Washington,  Seattle. 

Hamrick,  J.,  M.  Godt,  D.  Murawski  and  M.  Loveless. 
1991.  Correlations  between  species  traits  and  allo- 
zyme  diversity:  Implications  for  conservation 
biology.  In  D.A.  Falk  and  K.E.  Holsinger,  editors. 
Genetics  and  Conservation  of  Rare  Plants,  pp.  75-86. 
Oxford  University  Press,  New  York. 


Ishii,  T.,  and  K.  Tsuniwaki.  1991.  Chloroplast  genome 
differentiation  in  Asian  cultivated  rice.  Genome 
34:818-826. 

Jansen,  R.,  H.  Michaels  and  J.  Palmer.  1991.  Phylogeny 
-  and  character  evolution  in  the  Asteraceae  based  on 

chloroplast  DNA  restriction  site  mapping.  Systematic 

Botany  16:98-115. 
Koehn,  R.  and  T.  Hilbish.  1987.  The  adaptive  importance 

of  genetic  variation.  American  Scientist  75:134-141. 
Learn,  Jr.,  G.  and  B.  Schaal.  1987.  Population  subdivision 

for  ribosomal  DNA  repeat  variants  in  Clematis  fre- 

montii.  Evolution  41:433-438. 
Les,  D.,  J.  Reinartz  and  E.  Esselman.  1991.  Genetic 

consequences  of  rarity  in  Aster  furcattis  (Asteraceae), 

a  threatened,  self-incompatible  plant.  Evolution 

45:1641-1650. 

Levins,  R.  1970.  Extinction.  Selected  Lectures  in  Mathe- 
matical and  Life  Sciences  2:75-77. 

Lewontin,  R.  1974.  The  Genetic  Basis  of  Evolutionary 
Change.  Columbia  University  Press. 

Marsolais,  J.,  J.  Pringle  and  B.  White.  1993.  Assessment 
of  random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD)  as 
genetic  markers  for  determining  the  origin  of  inter- 
specific lilac  hybrids.  Taxon  42:531. 

Nei,  M.  1972.  Genetic  distance  between  populations. 
American  Naturalist  106:283-292. 

Nei,  M.  and  W.  Li.  1979.  Mathematical  modeling  for 
studying  genetic  variation  in  terms  of  restriction 
endonucleases.  Proceedings  of  the  National  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences  USA  76:5269-5273. 

Palmer,  J.,  R.  Jansen,  H.  Michaels,  M.  Chase  and  J.  Man- 
hart.  1988.  Chloroplast  DNA  variation  and  plant 
phylogeny.  Annals  of  the  Missouri  Botanical  Garden 
75:1180-1206. 

Purdy,  B.,  R.  Bayer  and  S.  MacDonald.  1994.  Genetic 
variation,  breeding  system  evolution,  and  conser- 
vation of  the  narrow  sand  dune  endemic  Stellaria 
arenicola  and  the  widespread  S.  longipes  (Caryophyl- 
laceae).  American  Journal  of  Botany  81:904-911. 

Reisberg,  L.  and  N.  Ellstrand.  1993.  What  can  molecular 
markers  tell  us  about  plant  hybridization?  Critical 
Reviews  in  Plant  Science  12:213-241. 

Rutman,  S.  1992.  Handbook  of  Arizona's  endangered, 
threatened  and  candidate  plants.  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service  Publication,  Phoenix. 

Saitou,  N.  and  M.  Nei.  1987.  The  neighbor-joining  meth- 
od: A  new  method  for  reconstructing  phylogenetic 
trees.  Molecular  Biology  and  Evolution  4:406-425. 

Schemske,  D.,  B.  Husband,  M.  Ruckelshaus,  C.  Good- 
willie,  I.  Parker  and  J.  Bishop.  1994.  Evaluating  ap- 
proaches to  the  conservation  of  rare  and  endangered 
plants.  Ecology  75(3):584-606. 

Templeton,  A.  1986.  Coadaptation  and  outbreeding  de- 
pression. In  M.  Soule,  editor.  Conservation  Biology: 
The  Science  of  Scarcity  and  Diversity,  pp.  105-117. 
Sinauer  Associates  Sunderland,  MA. 


66 


van  Buren,  R.,  K.  Harper,  W.  Andersen,  D.  Stanton,  S. 
Seyoum  and  J.  England.  1994.  Evaluating  the  rela- 
tionship of  autumn  buttercup  {Ranunculus  acriformis 
var.  asetivalis)  to  some  close  congeners  using  random 
amplified  polymorphic  DNA.  American  Journal  of 
Botany  81:514-519. 

Welsh,  J.  and  M.  McClelland.  1990.  Fingerprinting 
genomes  using  PCR  with  arbitrary  primers.  Nucleic 
Acids  Research  8:7213-7218. 


Williams,  J.,  A.  Kubelik,  K.  Livak,  J.  Rafalski  and  S. 
Tingey.  1990.  DNA  polymorphisms  amplified  by 
arbitrary  primers  are  useful  as  genetic  markers. 
Nucleic  Acids  Research  18:6531-6535. 

Williams,  J.,  R.  Reiter,  R.  Young  and  P.  Scolnik.  1993. 
Genetic  mapping  of  mutations  using  phenotypic 
pools  and  mapped  RAPD  markers.  Nucleic  Acids 
Research  20:2697-2702. 


67 


A  Genetic  Evaluation  of  Three  Potential  Races  of 
the  Rare  Kachina  Daisy 

LOREEN  ALLPHIN,!  MICHAEL  D.  WINDHAM, 2  and  KIMBALL  T.  HARPER 3 

^Department  of  Biology,  University  of  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City,  UT  84112 
^Garrett  Herbarium,  Utah  Museum  of  Natural  History,  Salt  Lake  City,  UT  84112 
•^Department  of  Botany  and  Range  Science,  Brigham  Young  University,  Provo,  UT  84602 

Abstract:  As  originally  described,  Erigeron  kachinensis  (Asteraceae)  was  a  category  2  species 
endemic  to  hanging  garden  communities  in  the  Colorado  Plateau  region  of  southeastern 
Utah.  Two  new  races  of  E.  kachinensis  have  recently  been  discovered.  One  grows  in  hanging 
gardens  along  the  Dolores  River  in  Colorado  and  is  morphologically  differentiated  from 
typical  materials  collected  at  Natural  Bridges  National  Monument.  Another  grows  on  ex- 
posed substrates  at  high  elevations  on  Elk  Ridge  in  southeastern  Utah.  It  is  morphologically 
similar  to  type  materials  but  occupies  a  different  habitat.  Genetic  evaluation  of  this  complex 
was  performed  using  allozymes  from  14  enzyme  loci  to  determine  if  these  races  represent 
distinct  taxa  worthy  of  separate  management.  Allozyme  data  show  that  the  races  are  genet- 
ically distinct.  Phylogenetic  analysis  demonstrates  that  the  morphologically  distinct  race 
(Dolores  River)  is  more  closely  related  to  type  materials  than  the  ecologically  distinct  race 
(high  elevation)  and  both  may  merit  varietal  status  based  on  allozyme  divergence. 


Introduction 

The  Kachina  daisy  {Erigeron  kachinensis  Welsh 
&  Moore)  was  discovered  and  named  in  1968 
(Welsh  and  Moore  1968).  It  is  a  rare  perennial 
composite  restricted  to  southeastern  Utah  and 
adjacent  Colorado.  The  species  grows  in  small, 
isolated  populations  at  seeps  and  alcoves  in 
canyons  on  the  Colorado  Plateau.  The  Kachina 
daisy  was  proposed  as  "endangered"  by  the  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  June  16,  1976  (U.S. 
Department  of  Interior  1975, 1976).  Later  proposals 
downgraded  the  original  recommendation  to 
"threatened"  status  for  the  species  (U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Interior  1988).  Currently,  the  Kachina 
daisy  is  listed  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
as  a  category  2  species. 

Because  this  species  is  often  restricted  to  seeps 
and  alcoves,  typically  along  a  single  seepline  with- 
in a  canyon,  there  is  concern  for  its  preservation.  If 
drought  caused  seeplines  occupied  by  this  species 
to  dry  up,  many  populations  could  be  eliminated. 
As  tourism  increases  in  the  canyon  regions  of 
southeastern  Utah,  so  does  the  threat  of  human 
impacts  on  rare  species.  Tourists  hiking  in  canyon 
bottoms  look  to  shady  alcoves  as  refuge  from  the 
hot  summer  sun.  Many  of  the  seeps  and  alcoves 
contain  small,  prehistoric  Anasazi  ruins,  which 
also  attract  tourists. 

The  Kachina  daisy  was  originally  known  only 
from  Natural  Bridges  National  Monument 
(NBNM)  and  an  isolated  population  in  Montrose 
County,  Colorado.  With  only  a  few  known  popu- 


lations confined  to  uncommon  sites,  resource 
managers  were  concerned  that  the  species  might 
be  vulnerable  to  extinction.  In  1990,  a  survey  of 
canyons  surrounding  NBNM  was  initiated  under 
a  contract  with  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management 
in  hopes  of  finding  additional  populations  of  E. 
kachinensis.  As  a  result  of  this  effort,  the  Kachina 
daisy  has  now  been  found  on  lands  administered 
by  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management  (Allphin 
1992).  Populations  are  known  in  Fish,  Arch,  White, 
and  Birch  canyons;  Elk  Ridge,  San  Juan  County, 
Utah;  and  from  the  lower  portion  of  Coyote  Wash, 
Montrose  County,  Colorado  (Allphin  1992,  Welsh 
et  al.  1987). 

These  new  collections  have  significantly  in- 
creased the  number  of  known  populations  of  the 
Kachina  daisy  and  have  raised  the  possibility  that 
it  should  be  deleted  from  the  list  of  candidates  for 
federal  protection.  Land  managers  from  Utah 
recently  met  and  discussed  this  very  proposal. 
Before  final  status  can  be  designated,  however,  it 
must  determined  if  E.  kachinensis  represents  a 
single  taxon. 

Three  potential  races  or  clusters  of  populations 
can  be  recognized  for  this  species  (Allphin  and 
Harper  1994,  Welsh  et  al.  1993).  The  type  popula- 
tion is  located  in  Natural  Bridges  National  Monu- 
ment (Welsh  and  Moore  1968).  It  can  be  found 
growing  in  hanging  garden  communities  in  Cedar 
Mesa  Sandstone  substrates  of  the  Colorado  Pla- 
teau region  of  Southeastern  Utah.  A  second  form 
of  this  taxon  is  found  along  the  Dolores  River  in 


68 


Montrose  County,  Colorado.  These  congeners  are 
morphologically  distinct  from  the  type  specimens 
of  E.  kachinensis  with  respect  to  several  characters: 
ray  flower  color,  flower  head  size,  leaf  size,  and 
leaf  shape.  A  third  group  of  populations  from  rock 
crevices  on  Elk  Ridge,  San  Juan  County,  Utah  are 
morphologically  similar  to  typical  materials,  yet 
grow  in  an  entirely  different  ecological  regime. 
The  habitats  associated  with  specimens  from  Elk 
Ridge  rock  faces  and  those  associated  with  alcove 
daisies  of  the  deep  canyons  of  NBNM  are  very 
different  with  respect  to  elevation,  soil  moisture, 
solar  radiation,  soil  salinity,  and  associated  species 
(Allphin  and  Harper  1994). 

To  assess  whether  these  three  groups  of  popu- 
lations represent  a  single  taxon,  it  is  necessary  to 
determine  how  closely  allied  they  are  genetically. 
Therefore,  our  objectives  for  this  study  were  to 
evaluate  genetic  differences  among  the  three 
groups  or  potential  races  of  E.  kachinensis,  and  to 
assess  whether  genetic  differences  are  correlated 
with  any  other  characters  such  as  ecology,  morph- 
ology, and  geology. 

Materials  and  Methods 

Genetic  differences  among  the  three  potential 
races  were  assessed  using  enzyme  electrophoresis. 
Populations  of  each  potential  race  were  sampled 
from  the  localities  shown  in  Figure  1.  We  sampled 
20-40  individuals  for  each  population  (Figure  1). 
Young  leaves  collected  from  each  individual  were 
ground  in  a  phosphate-PVP  grinding  buffer  (Soltis 
et  al.  1983)  using  a  mortar  and  pestle.  Ground  ma- 
terial was  absorbed  into  wicks  made  of  Whatman 
3MM  filter  paper  and  stored  in  an  ultra-cold  freez- 
er (-70°C)  until  analysis  (up  to  4  months  later). 

Electrophoresis  was  performed  using  a  variety 


of  gel  and  electrode  buffers  (Table  1)  and  samples 
were  analyzed  using  12%  starch  gels  that  were 
sliced  and  stained  following  standard  protocols 
(Soltis  et  al.  1983).  The  allozyme  markers  from  14 
enzyme  loci  that  provided  consistent  interpretable 
results  were  analyzed  (Table  1).  We  recorded  the 
presence  or  absence  of  each  allele  detected  for  all 
populations.  These  data  were  analyzed  phyloge- 
netically  using  PAUP  3.1  (Phylogenetic  Analysis 
Using  Parsimony)  (Swofford  1990).  Both  heuristic 
and  exhaustive  searches  for  the  most  parsimoni- 
ous trees  were  conducted  and  statistical  indices 
were  computed. 

In  addition  to  the  allozyme  study,  all  herbar- 
ium collections  of  E.  kachinensis  at  Brigham  Young 
University  (BYU)  and  the  University  of  Utah  (UT) 
were  examined  for  evidence  of  any  morphological 
differentiation  among  the  three  potential  races. 
Collection  records  were  also  assessed  for  any 
differences  in  ecology,  geology,  or  physiology  that 
might  be  correlated  with  the  allozyme  data. 

Results 

The  individual  allozymes  detected  at  the  14 
analyzed  loci  are  listed  in  Table  2.  Given  the  low 
level  of  genetic  divergence  among  closely  related 
taxa  within  Erigeron  (Noyes  et  al.  1995,  Windham, 
unpublished  data),  the  allozyme  differences  ob- 
served between  "races"  of  E.  kachinensis  is  surpris- 
ing. For  example,  an  entire  locus  is  missing  from 
the  high-elevation  race  which  is  present  in  the 
other  races  (Table  2).  For  several  of  the  enzyme 
loci,  the  hanging  garden  races  appear  to  have  only 
a  subset  of  all  the  alleles  present  in  the  species. 
This  can  be  observed  at  PGI-2  and  PGM-2  (Figures 
2  and  3).  At  PGI-2,  the  Causeway  population 
carries  a  second  allele  that  is  absent  in  other 


Table  1.  Enzymes  used  in  allozyme  analysis  of  three  potential  races  of  Erigeron  kachinensis,  gel  and  electrode  buffer 
systems  used,  and  number  of  loci  scored. 


Enzyme 

Gel /Electrode  Buffers 
(Soltis  et  al.  1983) 

Acronym 

Number  of  Loci  Scored 

Esterase 

8 

EST 

1 

Isocitrate  dehydrogenase 

11  &M 

IDH 

1 

Leucine  aminopeptidase 

8 

LAP 

1 

Malate  dehydrogenase 

M 

MDH 

1 

NADH-diaphorase 

8 

NADH-DP 

3 

Phosphoglucoisomerase 

6&8 

PGI 

2 

Phosphoglucomutase 

6 

PGM 

2 

6-Phosphogluconate  dehydrogenase 

11  &M 

6-PGD 

2 

Triosephosphate  isomerase 

6&8 

TPI 

1 

Total  number  of  loci  analyzed  to  date: 

14 

69 


Figure  1.  Locations  of  sampled  populations  of  E.  kachinensis  for  enzyme  electrophoresis.  The  star  repre- 
sents a  population  along  the  Dolores  River  (Montrose  County,  Colorado)  where  25  individuals  were  sam- 
pled. The  inverted  triangles  represent  three  populations  located  on  the  Elk  Ridge,  Manti  La  Sal  National 
Forest,  San  Juan  Co.,  Utah  (Causeway,  Chippean  Rocks,  and  Elk  Ridge)  where  approximately  24  Individ-  \ 
uals  were  sampled  per  population.  The  circles  represent  populations  of  typical  Kachina  daisy.  The  most 
western  circle  represents  a  total  of  40  individuals  taken  from  six  populations  in  Natural  Bridges  National 
Monument  (San  Juan  Co.,  Utah).  The  eastern  circle  represents  a  population  in  Fish  Canyon  (Grand  Gulch  | 
Primitive  Area,  San  Juan,  Co.,  Utah)  where  20  individuals  were  sampled. 

! 


70 


Table  2.  Results  of  isozyme  electrophoresis  of  three  races  of  Erigeron  kachmensis.  The  presence  of  an  allele 
at  a  particular  locus  is  indicated  by  a  plus  sign  (+)  and  the  absence  of  the  allele  at  that  same  locus  is  indi- 
cated by  a  negative  sign  (-).  A  question  mark  (?)  indicates  missing  data.  An  asterisk  indicates  that  the 
locus  is  absent  for  the  entire  high-elevation  race. 


Alleles 

Causeway 

J 

Chippean 

IT  JT 

Elk  Ridge 

Dolores 

Nat.  Br. 

Fish 

PGIla 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

PGI2a 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

PGI2b 

+ 

PGMla 

+ 

4- 

4- 

PGMlb 

PGM2a 

+ 

+ 

PGM2b 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

PGM2c 

+ 

+ 

LAPla 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

LAPlb 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

LAPlc 

+ 

4- 

4- 

TPIla 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

TPIlb 

4- 

MDHla 

+ 

+ 

MDHlb 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

6PGDla 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

6PGDlb 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

6PGDlc 

+ 

4- 

6PGD2a 

+ 

+ 

4- 

4- 

6PGD2b 

+ 

IDHla 

+ 

4- 

IDHlb 

+ 

IDHlc 

4- 

-|- 

4- 

4- 

4. 

E)Hld 

+ 

ESTla 

4- 

4- 

4. 
1 

ESTlb 

4- 

4- 

4- 

ESTlc 

+ 

4- 

4- 

4- 

ESTld 

+ 

4- 

ISFDPla 

_ 

_ 

+ 

NDPlb 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

NDPlc 

-1- 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

NDP2a 

+ 

+ 

+ 

-t- 

+ 

7 

NDP2b 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

? 

NDP2c 

+ 

+ 

? 

NDP2d 

+ 

7 

NDP3a* 

+ 

NDP3b* 

+ 

+ 

+ 

NDP3c* 

+ 

+ 

71 


PGI 


mil 


A  A  A  A  A 

Elk  Ridge  Chippean  Causeway  NatBr  Dolores  Fish 

Figure  2.  Photo  of  allozyme  variability  at  both  loci  of  PGI  for  all  six  study  populations  of  E.  kachinensis. 
Number  1  represents  PGI-1  locus  (monomorphic)  and  number  2  represents  the  PGI-2  locus. 


PGM-2 


0I» 


m 


A  A  AAA 

Elk  Ridge  Chippean  Causeway  Dolores  NatBr  Fish 

Figure  3.  Photograph  of  allozyme  variability  at  the  PGM-2  locus  for  all  study  populations  of  E.  kachinensis. 


populations  (Figure  2).  At  PGM-2,  all  three  of  the 
high-elevation  populations  (Causeway,  Chippean, 
and  Elk  Ridge)  possess  alleles  (a  and  c)  that  are 
absent  from  the  other  populations  (Figure  3). 

Phylogenetic  analysis  resulted  in  two  equally 
parsimonious  trees,  both  with  relatively  high 
consistency  indices  (CI  =  .721).  A  strict  consensus 
of  these  two  trees  (Figure  4)  demonstrates  two 
potential  clades  within  E.  kachinensis.  One  clade 
representing  all  three  populations  of  the  high- 
elevation  races,  forms  an  unresolved  polytomy  at 
the  base  of  the  tree.  A  well-defined  clade  repre- 
senting all  hanging  garden  populations  branches 
from  within  this  polytomy.  The  morphologically 
distinctive  Dolores  River  population  occupies  the 
basal  branch  of  the  hanging  garden  clade  and 


might  prove  to  be  a  distinct  evolutionary  lineage. 
These  same  groupings  are  supported  by  data  on 
genetic  distances  and  character  distances  (Table  3). 
High  genetic  distances  can  be  seen  between  popu- 
lations of  the  hanging  garden  race  and  populations 
of  the  high-elevation  race.  Populations  of  the 
hanging  garden  race  appear  to  be  more  closely  re- 
lated to  the  morphologically  distinct  race  (Dolores 
River)  than  to  the  morphologically  similar  race  at 
high  elevations. 

A  reassessment  of  morphological  trends 
among  the  three  races  supports  molecular  findings 
of  three  distinct  races  among  populations  of  E. 
kachinensis  (Table  4).  The  high-elevation  race  is 
distinguished  from  typical  materials  by  having  a 
thickened,  branching  caudex  and  >8  cauline 


72 


Table  3.  Mean  genetic  distances  and  character  distances  among  study  populations  of  Erigeron  kachinensis . 


Mean  Genetic  Distcinces 


Causeway 

Chippean    Elk  Ridge    Dolores  R.     Nat.  Br.    Fish  Canyon 

Causeway 

.333  .400 

.533            .867  .733 

Chippean  Rocks  6 

.333 

.600            .667  .800 

Elk  Ridge  7 

5 

.400            .600  .467 

Dolores  River  9 

11  8 

.467  .200 

Natural  Bridges  14 

12  11 

9  .267 

Fish  Canyon  12 

14  9 

5  6 

Table  4.  Character  differences  among  the  three  races  of  Erigeron  kachinensis  as  determined  from  herbarium 
specimens  from  Brigham  Young  University  and  University  of  Utah. 

Characters        Elk  Ridge  Race 

Hanging  Garden  Race 

Dolores  River  Race 

Morphology     rays  white 

rays  white-fading  pink 

rays  pink  or  white-fading 
pink 

well-developed  caudex 

caudex  simple,  less 
developed 

caudex  less  developed 

many  cauline  leaves  (8-16) 

few  cauline  leaves  (3-7) 

cauline  leaves  (5-8) 

leaves  lanceolate- 
oblanceolate 

leaves  oblanceolate- 
spatulate 

leaves  spatulate- 
emarginate;  often  refuse 
apically 

Ecology           exposed  rock  crevices 

alcoves  and  seeps 

alcoves  and  seeps 

Ponderosa  pine/oakbrush 

hanging  garden 

hanging  garden 

communities 

communities 

communities 

Geology           Navajo  Sandstone 

Cedar  Mesa  Sandstone 

Navajo  Sandstone 

Physiology  non-halophytic 

halophytic 

halophytic 

Elevation         high  (720Q-8640  ft) 

mid  (5400-6800  ft) 

mid  (5150-5400  ft) 

73 


Strict 


Consistency  index  (CI)  0.760 

Retention  index  (RI)  0.647  CSUSGWSy 

Homoplasy  index  (HI)  0.240  / 

f-ratio  0.1594  / 


/         ^  Chippean 

y^y^  ElkRidge 

/  Dolores 

\^  y  Natural  Bridges 

^  Fish  Canyon 

Figure  4.  A  strict  consensus  phylogenetic  tree  generated  for  all  study  populations  of  £.  kachinensis  using 
PAUP  3.1. 


74 


leaves.  The  Dolores  River  race  can  be  differenti- 
ated from  typical  materials  by  its  spatulate-emar- 
ginate,  often  refuse  leaves  (Table  4). 

The  high-elevation  race  can  also  be  distin- 
guished from  typical  materials  on  the  basis  of 
ecology,  geology,  and  physiology  (Table  4).  It  is 
typically  found  growing  in  exposed  rock  crevices 
on  Navajo  Sandstone  substrates,  which  are  typ- 
ically nonsaline.  However,  the  typical  materials 
from  Natural  Bridges  National  Monument  are 
found  in  sheltered  alcoves  and  seeps  in  hanging 
garden  communities  of  Cedar  Mesa  Sandstone 
substrates  with  high  salt  concentrations  (Table  4). 
For  all  of  these  characters,  the  Dolores  River  race  is 
very  similar  to  the  hanging  garden  race  (Table  4). 

Conclusions 

Our  genetic  evaluation  suggests  that  the 
morphologically  distinct  race  (Dolores  River)  is 
more  closely  related  to  the  type  materials  than  the 
ecologically  distinct,  high-elevation  race.  These 
data  add  to  the  growing  body  of  evidence  (King 
and  Wilson  1975,  Gottlieb  1977,  Cherry  et  al.  1978, 
Hillis  1987,  Donoghue  and  Sanderson  1992,  Avise 
1994)  that  morphological  differentiation  isn't 
necessarily  correlated  with  molecular  divergence. 
Although  it  might  be  argued  that  some  allozyme 
divergence  in  the  ecologically  distinct  race  is 
adaptive  in  nature  (rather  than  neutral),  it  doesn't 
change  the  fact  that  we  appear  to  be  dealing  with 
distinct  genetic  systems. 

Consequently,  we  suggest  that  the  high- 
elevation  race  deserves  varietal  status  based  upon 
aUozyme  and  ecological  divergence.  This  variety  is 
recognizable  on  the  basis  of  morphological  charac- 
ters (such  as  the  caudex  and  number  of  cauline 
leaves)  in  addition  to  elevation  and  ecology.  Since 
the  Dolores  River  race  is  closely  related  to  the 
hanging  garden  race  according  to  allozymes  and 
ecology,  we  prefer  to  retain  it  in  the  hanging 
garden  variety  pending  further  study.  Closely 
related  species  of  E.  kachinensis  analyzed  to  date 
have  been  too  distant  with  respect  to  allozymes  for 
phylogenetic  comparisons.  Future  studies  should 
include  at  least  one  closely  related  species  to 
provide  a  suitable  outgroup  and  should  include  an 
assay  of  DNA  variability,  since  allozymes  are  not 
always  reflective  of  total  genomic  variation  (Mit- 
ton  1994). 

The  recognition  of  two  varieties  of  Erigeron 
kachinensis  would  require  each  taxon  to  be  man- 
aged separately.  The  total  number  of  individuals 
of  the  hanging  garden  taxon  would  be  signifi- 


cantly reduced,  allowing  it  to  possibly  remain 
federally  protected.  With  growing  human  impact 
to  the  canyon  country,  protection  may  prove  nec- 
essary for  preservation  of  total  species  diversity 
within  E.  kachinmsis. 

Acknowledgments 

We  would  like  to  thank  the  Bureau  of  Land 
Management  and  the  Utah  Native  Plant  Society 
for  assisting  with  funding  of  this  project.  Special 
thanks  also  goes  to  Stanley  L.  Welsh,  Brigham 
Young  University,  for  input  and  loan  of  herbarium 
specimens.  We  would  also  like  to  thank  Elisabeth 
Mattes  with  the  Hughes  High  School  Summer 
Research  Program  who  assisted  with  enzyme 
electrophoresis.  We  also  thank  the  National  Park 
Service,  Natural  Bridges  National  Monument,  and 
the  U.S.  Forest  Service. 

Literature  Cited 

Allphin,  L.  1992.  Survey  of  Grand  Gulch  primitive 
area  for  Erigeron  kachinensis.  Sego  Lily  (newslet- 
ter of  Utah  Native  Plant  Society)  15(2):3^. 

Allphin,  L.,  and  K.T.  Harper.  1994.  Habitat  requirements 
for  Erigeron  kachinensis,  a  rare  endemic  of  the  Colo- 
rado Plateau.  Great  Basin  Naturalist  54(3):193-203. 

Avise,  J.C.  1994.  Molecular  markers,  natural  history,  and 
evolution.  Chapman  and  Hill,  Inc.,  New  York.  511 
pp. 

Cherry,  L.M.,  S.M.  Case,  and  A.C.  Wilson.  1978.  Frog 
perspective  on  the  morphological  divergence  be- 
tween humans  and  chimpanzees.  Science  200:209- 
211. 

Donoghue,  M.J.,  and  M.J.  Sanderson.  1992.  The  suita- 
bility of  molecular  and  morphological  evidence  in 
reconstruction  plant  phylogeny.  In  Soltis,  P.S.,  D.E. 
Soltis,  and  J.J.  Doyle,  editors.  Molecular  Systematics 
of  Plants,  pp.  340-368.  Chapman  and  Hill,  Inc.  New 
York. 

Gottlieb,  L.D.  1977.  Electrophoretic  evidence  and  plant 
systematics.  Annals  Missouri  Botanical  Garden 
64:161-180. 

Hillis,  D.M.  1987.  Molecular  versus  morphological 

approaches  to  systematics.  Annual  Review  Ecology 

and  Systematics  18:23-42. 
King,  J.L.,  and  A.C.  Wilson.  1975.  Evolution  at  two 

levels  in  humans  and  chimpanzees.  Science  164:788- 

798. 

Mitton,  J.G.  1994.  Molecular  approach  to  population 
biology.  Annual  Review  Ecology  and  Systematics 
25:45-69. 

Noyes,  R.D.,  D.E.  Soltis,  and  P.S.  Soltis.  1995.  Genetic 
and  cytological  investigations  in  sexual  Erigeron 
compositus  (Asteraceae).  Systematic  Botany  20:132- 
146. 


75 


Soltis,  D.E.,  D.H.  Haufler,  D.C.  Darrow,  and  J.  Gastony. 
1983.  Starch  gel  electrophoresis  of  ferns:  A  compila- 
tion of  grinding  buffers,  gel  and  electrode  buffers, 
and  staining  schedules.  American  Fern  Journal 
73(l):9-27. 

Swofford,  D.L.  1990.  PAUP:  Phylogenetic  Analysis 
Using  Parsimony,  Version  3.1.  Computer  program 
distributed  by  the  Illinois  Natural  History  Survey, 
Champaign,  Illinois. 

U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service.  1975.  Review  of  Erigeron  kachinensis  as  an 
endangered  species.  Federal  Register  40:27880. 

U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service.  1976.  Proposal  that  Erigeron  kachinensis  be 
listed  as  endangered.  Federal  Register  41:24524- 
24572. 


U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service.  1988.  Endangered  species  act  of  1973  as 
amended  through  the  100th  Congress.  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Washington,  D.C.  45  pp. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  and  G.  Moore.  1968.  Plants  of  Natural 
Bridges  National  Monument.  Proceedings  Utah 
Academy  of  Sciences,  Arts  and  Letters  45:220-248. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  N.D.  Atwood,  L.C.  Higgins  and  S.  Good- 
rich. 1987.  A  Utah  Flora.  Great  Basin  Memoirs  No.  9. 
Brigham  Young  University  Press,  Provo,  Utah.  894 
pp. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  N.D.  Atwood,  S.  Goodrich,  and  L.C.  Hig- 
gins. 1993.  A  Utah  Flora,  2nd  ed.  Print  Services, 
Brigham  Young  University,  Provo,  Utah.  986  pp. 


76 


Genetic  Variation  Among  Populations  of  Arctomecon  (Papaveraceae) 

RENEE  VAN  BUREN^  and  KIMBALL  T.  HARPER ^ 

^Department  of  Life  Science,  Utah  Valley  State  College,  Orem,  UT  84058-5999 
^Department  of  Botany  and  Range  Science,  Brigham  Young  University,  Provo,  UT  84602 

Abstract:  Three  species  comprise  the  genus  Arctomecon  (Papaveraceae).  All  are  endemic  to  the 
Mojave  Desert  region  of  the  southwestern  United  States.  Arctomecon  humilis,  endemic  to 
Washington  County,  UT,  was  listed  as  an  endangered  species  in  1979  and  is  presently  known 
from  only  nine  populations.  Habitat  for  this  species  continues  to  decline  as  human  develop- 
ment increases.  Arctomecon  californica  is  endemic  to  southern  Nevada  and  the  lower  Grand 
Canyon  area  of  Arizona.  Arctomecon  merriamii  is  confined  to  southern  Nevada  and  the  Death 
Valley  area  of  California.  Both  A.  californica  and  A.  merriamii  are  candidates  for  listing  as 
threatened  or  endangered  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  Arctomecon  californica  popula- 
tions are  seriously  threatened  by  development.  We  have  estimated  the  variation  existing 
among  populations  of  A.  humilis  and  the  degree  of  genetic  similarity  this  taxon  shares  with  its 
congeners.  Estimates  are  based  on  RAPD  (randomly  amplified  polymorphic  DNA)  analysis 
of  genomic  DNA.  DNA  was  extracted  from  leaf  tissue.  Tissue  from  Argemone  miinita  and 
Romneya  coultcrii,  proposed  close  relatives  of  Arctomecon  and  Papaver  orientale,  an  outgroup, 
was  also  included  in  the  analysis.  Results  show  that  little  genetic  variation  exists  among  the 
populations  oi  Arctomecon  hwnilis  (populations  are  over  95%  similar  on  average).  Populations 
of  A.  californica  were  nearly  as  similar  (-94%).  However,  A.  merriamii  populations  averaged 
only  about  68  percent  similarity.  Mean  interspecific  similarity  among  the  three  species  of 
Arctomecon  was  between  15  and  23  percent.  The  results  provide  information  on  the  genetic 
composition  of  individual  populations  that  will  prove  helpful  for  management  decisions.  The 
data  also  provided  insights  concerning  phylogeny  in  the  family  Papaveraceae. 


Introduction 

Three  species  of  Arctomecon  {A.  humilis  CoviUe, 
A.  merriamii  Coville,  and  A.  californica  Torr.  & 
Frem.)  are  endemic  to  the  Mojave  Desert  regions 
of  the  southwestern  United  States  (Nelson  and 
Welsh  1993  and  Figure  1).  Arctomecon  californica 
and  A.  humilis  are  usually  found  only  on  gypsic 
soils.  Arctomecon  merriamii  sometimes  occurs  on 
gypsic  soils  as  well,  but  occurs  over  a  much  larger 
area  than  either  of  the  other  species,  often  on  soils 
derived  from  limestone  or  travertine  (personal 
observation).  Habitat  requirements  of  A.  humilis 
have  been  described  by  Nelson  and  Harper  (1991). 
Alkaloids  of  Arctomecon  suggest  affinities  with 
Argemone  and  Romneya,  two  North  American 
genera,  and  Glaucium  and  Papaver,  which  all  share 
tetrahydrobenzylisoquinoline  and  protoberberine 
alkaloids,  which  are  not  known  from  other  genera 
in  the  family  (Raynie  et  al.  1991).  Within  the  genus 
Arctomecon,  A  .  humilis  contains  nearly  twice  as 
many  kinds  of  alkaloids  as  A.  californica  and  A. 
merriamii. 

Arctomecon  humilis  was  listed  as  an  endan- 
gered species  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
in  1979  (U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  1979)  while 
A.  californica  and  A.  merriamii  are  presently  cate- 


gorized as  C2  by  the  agency.  Arctomecon  humilis 
and  A.  californica  are  particularly  vulnerable  as 
they  occupy  sites  threatened  by  rapidly  expanding 
human  population  centers.  Encroachment  of 
residential  and  commercial  developments  pose 
difficult  problems  for  managers  charged  with 
preserving  these  species.  As  pressures  on  habitat 
due  to  land  exchanges  and  other  events  continue, 
it  is  critical  that  estimates  of  genetic  variability 
among  populations  be  understood.  The  ability  of  a 
species  to  survive  various  stresses  may  be  limited 
by  the  genetic  variability  within  its  populations 
(Barrett  and  Kohn  1991,  Hamrick  et  al.  1991,  Lacy 
1987). 

For  rare  and  endangered  species,  conservation 
of  the  genomic  material  must  be  a  primary  objec- 
tive (Schaal  et  al.  1991).  Morphological  uniqueness 
does  not  always  reflect  the  degree  of  genetic  varia- 
tion that  a  particular  population  may  contribute  to 
the  total  genome  of  the  species. 

There  are  many  methods  in  use  to  estimate 
genetic  variation  in  populations  (Schaal  et  al. 
1991).  RAPD  (randomly  amplified  polymorphic 
DNA)  analysis  has  proven  to  be  an  economical 
and  reliable  method  for  estimating  genetic  varia- 
tion within  natural  populations,  especially  in  the 


77 


A  Arctomecon  humilis 

*  Arctomecon  californica 

•  Arctomecon  merriamii 


0  100  200  300  400  MILES 


I  '  I  '  I  '  I  I  I  '  I  '  I  '  I  '  I  '  M  I  M  '  I 
0         100       200       300      400      500      600  KILOMETERS 


Figure  1.  Map  showing  the  general  locations  of  study  sites  for  taxa  included  in  this  study. 


case  of  endangered  species  (Haig  et  al.  1994,  Welsh 
and  McClelland  1990,  Wilhams  et  al.  1990).  In 
cases  where  classification  is  problematic,  this 
method  has  provided  information  useful  for  reso- 
lution of  problems  (Van  Buren  et  al.  1994). 

We  have  employed  the  RAPD  methodology  to 
amplify  total  genomic  DNA.  Random  primers 
were  used  to  generate  DNA  markers  for  estima- 
tion of  percent  similarity  of  DNA  among  popula- 
tions of  Arctomecon  humilis  and  with  related 
species.  Leaf  tissue  was  collected  from  all  known 
populations  of  A.  humilis.  The  nine  known  popula- 
tions of  this  poppy  are  all  located  near  St.  George, 
Washington  County,  southwestern  UT.  In  order  to 
better  understand  the  degree  of  variation  observed 
among  populations  of  a  single  species,  we  have 
included  tissue  from  three  populations  of  each  of 
the  other  species  in  the  genus  Arctomecon,  A. 
californica  and  A.  merriamii.  To  better  interpret  the 
variation  observed  within  Arctomecon ,  we  have 
also  included  tissue  from  species  in  three  other 
genera  in  Papaveraceae:  Argemone  munita  Dur.  & 
Hilg.  (Welsh  et  al.  1993),  Romneya  coulteri  Harvey 
(Clark  1993),  and  Pa-paver  orientale  L.  (Welsh  et  al. 
1993).  Such  broad  sampling  of  related  taxa  is 
helpful  for  understanding  the  significance  of 


various  degrees  of  similarity  of  DNA  markers 
from  species  assigned  to  various  taxonomic  levels 
by  systematists. 

Materials  and  Methods 

All  taxa  included  in  this  study  were  sampled 
at  locations  in  southwestern  Utah  and  southeast- 
ern Nevada  (Figure  1).  Two  disease  and  parasite- 
free  leaves  were  collected  from  30  individuals  at 
each  of  the  nine  populations  of  Arctomecon  humilis 
(see  Table  1  for  specific  locations  of  populations 
for  all  taxa  considered).  At  a  previously  estab- 
lished demography  plot  at  Red  Butte,  Washington 
County,  UT,  samples  were  collected  to  determine 
whether  any  DNA  differences  existed  between 
juvenile  and  adult  age  classes  (Nelson  and  Harper 
1991).  Leaves  of  30  juveniles  and  30  adults  were 
collected.  These  samples  were  treated  indepen- 
dently throughout  the  study.  Thirty  individuals 
from  each  of  three  populations  of  Arctomecon 
merriamii  and  three  populations  of  A.  californica 
were  sampled  in  Clark  and  Lincoln  counties, 
Nevada.  These  populations  represented  widely 
disjunct  fragments  within  each  species'  range.  Leaf 
tissue  of  Argemone  munita  was  collected  from  two 
sites,  one  in  Clark  County,  Nevada,  and  the  other 


78 


Table  1.  Locations  and  abbreviations  used  for  all  populations  of  all  taxa  included  in  this  study.  These 
abbreviations  are  used  throughout  the  manuscript. 


Taxa 

Abbreviation 

Location 

Arctomecon  humilis 

AHSC 

Santa  Clara  Butte,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHBH 

Boomer  Hill,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHWD 

White  Dome,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHPH 

Webb  Hill,  south  side  of  highway,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHAW 

West  of  1-15  near  Atkinville  road,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHRBj 

Demography  plot,  juv.;  Red  Bluff,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHRBa 

Demography  plot,  adults;  Red  Bluff,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHBD 

Beehive  Dome,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHWV 

Warner  Valley,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

AHSK 

Shinob  Kibe  Hill,  Washington  Co.,  UT 

A.  calif omica 

ACAX 

Apex  road,  north  of  1-15,  Clark  Co.,  NV 

ACFM 

Frenchman  mountams,  Clark  Co.,  Nv 

ACLV 

North  Las  Vegas,  N  Centennial  and  5th,  Clark  Co.,  NV 

A.  merriamii 

AMLV 

N.  L.  v.,  NE  corner  Craig  Rd.  and  Jones,  Clark  Co.,  NV 

AMRC 

Rainbow  Canyon,  Lincoln  Co.,  NV 

AMAM 

Ash  Meadows,  Nye  Co.,  NV 

Argemone  munita 

AGCC 

Highway  63,  Lincoln  Co.,  NV 

AGGC 

Highway  54,  Garfield  Co.,  UT 

Romneya  coulteri 

RCJC 

Roadside  near  Visalia,  Fresno  Co.,  CA 

Papaver  orientate 

POCV 

Cultivated  in  Spanish  Fork,  Utah  Co.,  UT 

in  Garfield  County,  Utah.  Romneya  coutteri  tissue 
was  taken  from  a  single  plant  growing  along  a 
roadside  near  Visalia,  Fresno  County,  California. 
Papaver  orientate  leaf  tissue  was  collected  from  a 
cultivated  individual  growing  in  a  garden  in  Utah 
County,  UT.  All  sample  leaves  from  each  popula- 
tion were  combined  except  for  the  Red  Butte  size- 
class  collections,  which  were  treated  independent- 
ly. Leaves  were  immediately  submerged  in  liquid 
nitrogen  after  collection  and  transferred  to  an 
ultra-cold  (-70°C)  storage  unit  as  soon  as  possible. 
Voucher  specimens  from  all  populations  are 
deposited  in  the  herbarium  at  Brigham  Young 
University. 

DNA  was  extracted  from  population-bulked 
leaf  samples  following  the  procedures  of  Bult  et  al. 
(1992)  which  were  modified  from  Doyle  and  Doyle 
(1987).  Approximately  0.3  g  of  combined  leaf  tis- 
sue from  each  population  was  extracted  by  grind- 
ing first  in  liquid  nitrogen  and  then  in  1.2  ml  IX 
CTAB  buffer  (1%  hexadecyltrimethylammonium 
bromide,  1.4  M  NaCl,  20mM  EDTA,  lOOmM  Tris, 
pH  8.0).  The  procedures  of  Bult  et  al.  (1992)  were 
adjusted  for  the  sample  volumes  described  above. 
Each  bulked  sample  was  extracted  twice  to  pro- 
vide duplicated  extraction  products  for  estimating 
repeatability  of  the  RAPD  signals.  Five  |il  of  the 


original  extracts  were  diluted  with  95  jil  TE  (1  m 
Tris  and  0.5  m  EDTA,  pH  8.0).  After  this  dilution, 
most  samples  yielded  between  30  and  85  ng  DNA 
per  )j.l  TE.  DNA  from  the  diluted  samples  was 
quantified  using  a  Beckman  DU  640  spectropho- 
tometer (Beckman  Instruments,  Inc.,  Fullerton, 
CA).  Samples  were  further  diluted  in  TE  to  con- 
centrations of  approximately  2.5  ng  DNA  per  |il 
TE. 

Amplification  was  performed  using  methods 
described  by  Williams  et  al.  (1990).  Reactions  with 
a  final  volume  of  15  \x\  each  contained  approxi- 
mately 5  ng  DNA,  1.5  fil  lOX  buffer,  100  |iM  each 
of  four  deoxynucleoside  triphosphates  (dATP, 
dCTP,  dGTP  and  dTTP),  3.5  mM  MgC12,  0.4  [iM 
primer  (Operon  Technologies,  Inc.,  Alameda,  CA), 
and  1.2  U  Stoffel  Fragment  (Perkin  Elmer-Cetus). 
Reactions  were  amplified  using  a  Perkin  Elmer- 
Cetus  DNA  48-well  thermal  cycler  with  cycling 
regimes  consisting  of  the  following  steps:  (1)  3- 
min  initiation  step  at  92°C;  (2)  92°C  for  1  min,  35°C 
for  1  min  and  45  sec,  72°C  for  2  min,  repeated  for 
45  cycles;  and  (3)  72°C  for  7  min.  Ramp  times 
between  temperatures  were  limited  only  by  the 
capabilities  of  the  machine.  Amplification  of 
replicated  DNA  samples  was  carried  out  for  esti- 
mation of  repeatability.  Control  tubes  containing 


79 


all  reagents  except  for  DNA  were  used  to  deter- 
mine artifactual  products  from  the  amplification. 
Amplification  products  were  electrophoresed  in 
1.4%  agarose  gels  in  TAE  buffer  (40  mM  Tris- 
acetate,  pH  7.5  and  1  mM  EDTA)  and  stained  for  1 
hr  in  ethidium  bromide  (0.5  |ig/ml).  Gels  were 
imaged  using  a  red  filter  on  a  Fotodyne  high- 
resolution  video  camera  with  a  Fujinon  RV  zoom 
lens,  Mitsubishi  video  processor,  Macintosh  Ilci 
color  system  with  high  resolution,  Fotodyne 
capture  card,  and  NIH  Image  and  Collage  2.0 
software.  The  gel  images  were  scored  from  di- 
rectly digitized  photocopies.  Molecular  weight 
markers  (pUC  19  digest  #204,  Discount  DNA,  Inc., 
Charleston,  SC)  were  included  on  both  outside 
lanes  and  at  least  every  sixth  lane  of  the  electro - 
phoretic  gels  for  ease  of  comparison  and  consis- 
tency in  scoring. 

Forty-nine  decanuceotide  primers  of  arbitrary 
sequence  were  screened  and  27  primers  were  ulti- 


mately used  to  produced  scorable  bands  (avg.  11.5 
bands  per  primer)  (Table  2).  Duplicate  amplifica- 
tions using  independent  DNA  extractions  and 
different  thermocyclers  were  used  on  12  of  the 
primers  to  test  for  repeatability.  These  results 
established  sufficient  confidence  in  the  RAPD 
reactions  that  the  remaining  primer  amplifications 
were  not  duplicated. 

The  presence/absence  data  were  analyzed 
using  the  NTSYS-pc  program,  version  1.8  (Rohlf 
1993).  Similarity  coefficients  were  derived  using 
Jaccard's  coefficient  of  similarity  (Jaccard  1912) 
and  the  SIMQUAL  option  of  NTSYS.  The  simi- 
larity matrix  was  then  analyzed  using  the  SAHN 
option  for  UPGMA  clustering,  and  finally  the 
TREE  option  for  the  construction  of  a  phenetic  tree 
based  on  percent  similarity.  We  have  also  ana- 
lyzed the  presence  and  absence  data  to  obtain 
indices  of  uniqueness  for  each  population  based 
on  marker  polymorphisms. 


Table  2.  Names,  nucleotide  sequences,  and  molecular  weights  of  primers  used  in  RAPD  analysis  and  the 
total  number  of  scorable  markers  produced  by  each  primer. 


Name 

Sequence 

MW 

Total  No.  Markers 

Operon  P-1 

5'-GTAGCACTCC-3' 

2979 

11 

Operon  P-2 

5'-TCGGCACGCA-3' 

3004 

14 

Operon  Q-1 

5'-GGGACGATGG-3' 

3124 

15 

Operon  Q-4 

5'-AGTGCGCTGA-3' 

3059 

12 

Operon  Q-5 

5'-CCGCGTCTTG-3' 

2986 

7 

Operon  Q-6 

5'-GAGCGCCTTG-3' 

3035 

11 

Operon  Q-9 

5'-GGCTAACCGA-3' 

3028 

7 

Operon  Q-1 2 

5'-AGTAGGGCAC-3' 

3068 

7 

Operon  Q-1 3 

5'-GCAGTGGACA-3' 

3108 

6 

Operon  Q-14 

5'-GGACGCTTCA-3' 

3019 

14 

Operon  Q-15 

5'-GGGTAACGTG-3' 

3099 

7 

Operon  Q-1 6 

5'-AGTGCAGCCA-3' 

3028 

16 

Operon  S-1 

5'-CTACTGCGCT-3' 

2970 

9 

Operon  S-6 

5'-GATACCTCGG-3' 

3019 

10 

Operon  S-8 

5'-TTCAGGGTGG-3' 

3090 

11 

Operon  Y-18 

5'-GTGGAGTCAG-3' 

3099 

11 

Operon  Y-19 

5'-TGAGGGTCCC-3' 

3035 

16 

Operon  Z-3 

5'-CAGCACCGCA-3' 

2973 

15 

Operon  Z-4 

5'-AGGCTGTGCT-3' 

3050 

14 

Operon  Z-6 

5'-GTGCCGTTCA-3' 

3010 

11 

Operon  Z-7 

5'-CCAGGAGGAC-3' 

3053 

8 

Operon  Z-9 

5'-CACCCCAGTC-3' 

2924 

8 

Operon  Z-11 

5'-CTCAGTCGCA-3' 

2979 

21 

Operon  Z-13 

5'-GACTAAGCCC-3' 

2988 

11 

Operon  Z-14 

5'-TCGGAGGTTC-3' 

3050 

5 

Operon  Z-18 

5'-AGGGTCTGTG-3' 

3090 

16 

Operon  Z-20 

5'-ACTTTGGCGG-3' 

3050 

18 

80 


Results 

Of  the  45  primers  screened,  27  produced  311 
scorable  markers,  which  were  used  to  determine 
similarity  among  samples.  For  each  primer,  gels 
were  scored  as  to  presence  or  absence  of  bands 
with  molecular  weights  between  2000  and  400  bp 
(Figure  2).  The  phenogram  produced  using  RAPD 
data  demonstrates  a  high  degree  of  similarity 
among  the  populations  of  Arctomecon  humilis 
(Figure  3).  Percent  similarity  among  populations 
of  a  single  taxon,  as  well  as  similarity  observed 
among  species,  is  indicated  in  Table  3.  Intraspe- 
cific  populations  of  A.  humilis  and  A.  calif ornica 
display  average  percent  similarities  of  nearly  95 
percent,  whereas  populations  of  A  .  merriamii 
demonstrate  only  about  68  percent  similarity. 

The  presence /absence  data  were  also  used  to 
compare  uniqueness  of  A.  humilis  populations  to 
determine  uniqueness  indices  that  are  not  detect- 
able using  similarity  only  (Table  4).  For  example, 
although  intraspecific  percent  similarity  was  very 
high  for  A .  humilis,  when  the  total  number  of 
markers  generated  from  all  primers  was  averaged, 
the  Shinob  Kibe  population  had  fewer  total  bands 


Table  3.  Percent  similarity  observed  among  populations 
of  single  taxa  and  between  different  species. 


Number  of  Standard 
Comparisons     Mean  Error 


Interpopulation  similarity 


Arctomecon  humilis 

45 

0.956 

0.015 

A.  calif  ornica 

3 

0.939 

0.021 

A.  merriamii 

3 

0.679 

0.168 

Interpopulation  mean 

3 

0.858 

0.155 

Similarity  between 
Arctomecon  species 


A.  humilis/ A.  californica 

30 

0.230 

0.017 

A.  humilis/ A.  merriamii 

30 

0.188 

0.007 

A.  californica/  A.  merriamii 

9 

0.155 

0.008 

Between  species  mean 

3 

0.191 

0.038 

than  the  mean  for  all  populations  (mean  =  101.4). 
This  population  is  the  most  northerly  and  the 
smallest  of  the  A.  humilis  populations.  The  reduced 
number  of  markers  generated  for  this  population 
suggests  that  its  genome  is  somewhat  different 
than  that  present  in  the  other  populations.  In  the 
case  of  A.  merriamii,  one  population  sampled  (Ash 
Meadows)  produced  nearly  75  percent  of  all 


Figure  2.  Photo  of  gel  produced  using  RAPD  amplification  of  total  genomic  DNA  with  primer  OPZ-11. 


81 


Table  4.  Characteristics  of  the  suite  of  DNA  markers  generated  for  nine  populations  of  Arctomecon  humilis. 
Total  number  of  bands  generated  with  27  primers  is  reported  for  each  population.  Numbers  of  total  mark- 
ers were  adjusted  for  missing  data.  The  number  of  markers  that  are  uniquely  present  or  absent  (or  are  pre- 
sent or  absent  in  only  two  or  three  populations)  is  also  reported  for  each  population.  Population  numbers 
correspond  to  the  following  names:  (1)  Santa  Clara  Butte,  (2)  Boomer  Hill,  (3)  White  Dome,  (4)  Webb  Hill, 
(5)  Atkinville,  (6)  Beehive  Dome,  (7)  Red  Bluff  juveniles,  (8)  Red  Bluff  adults,  (9)  W^arner  Ridge,  and  (10) 
Shinob  Kibe. 


Population  Number 


Parameter 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

Total  markers  observed 

102 

104 

100 

98 

102 

97 

100 

99 

97 

86 

Potentially  missed  markers 

0 

0 

1 

5 

1 

4 

0 

4 

7 

7 

Probable  total  markers 

(70%  probability) 

102 

104 

103 

103 

103 

101 

100 

103 

104 

91 

Unique  markers 
+ 

1 

1 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

Unusual  markers 

2  populations  only 
+ 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

3  populations  only 
+ 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

Unusual  marker  index 

+ 

2 

2 

1 

1 

2 

1 

0 

1 

1 

2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 

2 

0 

0 

0 

Table  5.  Summary  of  Arctomecon  merriamii  population  uniqueness  based  on  RAPD  marker  presence  and 
absence  data.  Unique  markers  were  considered  to  be  those  that  occurred  in  or  were  absent  from  one  pop- 
ulation only. 


Population 


Characteristic 

N.  Las  Vegas 

Rainbow  Canyon 

Ash  Meadows 

Total 

Total  markers  observed 

95 

100 

98 

129 

No.  unique  markers 

present 

2 

5 

21 

28 

absent 

4 

3 

24 

31 

Index  of  uniqueness 

(unique  +  and  -) 

6 

8 

45 

82 


0.0 


0.25 


0.5 


0.75 


1.0 
-I 


AHSC 
AHBH 
AHBD 
AHRBj 
AHRBa 
AHSK 
|— AHWD 
1- AHWV 
J- AHPH 
^  AHAW 
—  ACAX 
l|—  ACFM 
H_  ACLV 
AMLV 
AMRC 
AMAM 
ROC 
AGGC 
AGCC 
POCV 


Figure  3.  Phenogram  produced  from  RAPD  data  s] 
tions.  See  Table  1  for  legend  abbreviations. 

unique  markers  (those  confined  to  a  single  popu- 
lation) for  this  taxon  (Table  5).  RAPD  markers 
showed  a  mean  percent  similarity  of  about  20 
percent  among  the  three  species  of  Arctomecon, 
with  A.humilis  and  A  .  californicn  being  most 
similar  (23%)  to  each  other.  There  was  not  a  large 
difference  between  DNA  markers  for  juvenile  and 
adult  age-class  samples  from  the  Red  Butte  popu- 
lation of  A.  humilis,  but  the  two  age  classes  do 
appear  in  different  branches  of  the  phenogram 
(Figure  3). 


zing  percent  similarity  among  Arctomecon  popula- 

Discussion 

The  success  of  a  rare  species  is  undoubtedly 
influenced  by  genetic  variation  regardless  of 
external  stresses  upon  the  species.  If  the  genetic 
potential  for  surviving  stresses  does  not  occur  in  a 
species'  genome,  conservation  efforts  may  have 
little  effect  on  the  species'  survival.  This  study 
provides  information  concerning  the  genomic 
structure  of  separate  populations  of  the  three 
species  of  Arctomecon.  By  quantifying  the  number 
of  unique  DNA  markers  in  known  populations  of 


83 


a  species,  managers  can  prioritize  preservation 
efforts  for  the  various  populations.  Arctomecon 
humilis  now  exists  as  several  disjunct  populations 
derived  from  what  was  probably  once  a  large 
contiguous  population  that  has  recently  been 
subdivided  as  the  required  gypsiferous  beds  have 
eroded  away.  Such  prior  conditions  would  have 
allowed  for  a  relatively  constant  flow  of  genetic 
information  throughout  the  population.  There  is 
evidence  that  although  the  present  populations  are 
similar,  each  has  some  degree  of  uniqueness 
(Table  4).  This  genetic  dissimilarity  will  most 
likely  increase  as  populations  continue  to  decrease 
in  size  and  become  more  disjunct  from  each  other. 
There  is  presently  some  degree  of  separation 
between  populations  occupying  the  eastern  and 
western  sides  of  the  valley.  Loss  of  any  one  of  the 
populations  would  reduce  the  potential  variation 
available  to  the  species.  Of  the  nine  populations, 
the  Shinob  Kibe  population  appears  to  be  in  the 
greatest  immediate  danger  of  extirpation.  It  is  the 
most  disjunct  population  and  represents  the  most 
northerly  extension  of  the  species'  range.  It  is  also 
the  smallest  population  and  is  threatened  on  every 
side  by  development.  Table  4  reveals  the  unique- 
ness of  this  population  in  terms  of  total  bands 
amplified  by  the  same  suite  of  primers  used  for  all 
other  populations.  This  reduced  number  indicates 
a  lesser  degree  of  homology  for  primer  binding 
sites,  or  in  other  words,  a  greater  degree  of  dissi- 
milarity relative  to  other  conspecific  populations. 
Although  A.  humilis  appears  to  possess  little 
genetic  variation  among  populations,  observed 
differences  between  juvenile  and  adult  age  classes 
at  a  single  site  suggest  that  genetic  variation  may 
be  selectively  sorted  during  the  developmental 
process.  Alternatively,  the  results  may  arise  as 
different  genomes  are  recruited  from  the  seedbank 
by  distinctive  climatic  conditions  associated  with 
individual  germination  events.  In  either  case, 
selection  on  the  pool  of  genetic  variation  could 
have  important  consequences  for  survival  of  the 
species. 

Relationships  of  Arctomecon  to  other  genera 
included  in  this  study  are  suggested  in  the  pheno- 
gram  (Figure  3).  Our  data  support  the  recent 
phylogenetic  relationships  reported  by  Kadereit  et 
al.  (1994)  for  the  same  genera  in  the  family  Papa- 
veraceae.  Although  RAPD  data  must  be  inter- 
preted cautiously  when  estimating  phylogeny,  the 
major  divisions  observed  in  Figure  3  are  similar  to 
groupings  reported  by  Kadereit  et  al.  (1994)  using 
morphological  characters.  Our  groupings  are  also 
and  Kadereit  (unpublished  report)  based  on 


chloroplast  DNA  restriction  fragment  analysis. 

RAPD  markers  for  individual  populations 
provide  managers  with  valuable  information  con- 
cerning the  degree  of  genetic  uniqueness  resident 
in  each  population.  In  the  absence  of  such  informa- 
tion, managers  must  resort  to  plant  numbers  alone 
to  decide  the  fate  of  individual  populations  that 
occur  on  sites  for  which  requests  have  been  made 
for  developments  that  will  either  destroy  or  mod- 
ify the  habitat.  Under  such  circumstances  small 
populations  would  be  preferentially  sacrificed 
unless  they  were  known  to  harbor  unique  genetic 
material. 

Acknowledgments 

Funding  for  this  study  was  provided  by  the 
Bureau  of  Land  Management  (BLM)  and  the  Col- 
lege of  Biology  and  Agriculture,  Brigham  Young 
University,  Provo,  Utah.  The  authors  thank 
Valorie  Armstrong,  BLM,  UT,  Gayle  Mars-Smith, 
BLM,  NV,  Janet  Cooper,  and  Julie  Tolman  for 
assistance  in  locating  the  study  sites,  collecting 
material,  and  manuscript  preparation.  We  thank 
Kaye  Thorne,  assistant  curator  at  the  herbarium  at 
Brigham  Young  University,  for  housing  and  veri- 
fying voucher  specimens. 

Literature  Cited 

Barrett,  S.C.H.,  and  J.R.  Kohn.  1991.  Genetic  and  evolu- 
tionary consequences  of  small  population  size  in 
plants:  Implications  for  conservation.  In  Falk,  D.A., 
and  K.E.  Holsinger,  editors.  Genetics  and  Conserva- 
tion of  Rare  Plants,  pp.  1-30.  Oxford  University 
Press,  New  York. 

Bult,  C,  M.  Kallersjo,  and  Y.  Suh.  1992.  Amplification 
and  sequencing  of  16S/18S  rDNA  from  gel-purified 
total  plant  DNA.  Plant  Molecular  Biology  Reporter 
17:272-284. 

Clark,  C.  1993.  Papaveraceae.  In  Hickman,  J.C.,  editor. 
The  Jepson  Manual  Higher  Plants  of  California,  pp. 
810-816.  University  of  California  Press,  Berkeley,  Los 
Angeles,  London. 

Doyle,  J.J.,  and  J.L.  Doyle.  1987.  A  rapid  DNA  isolation 
procedure  for  small  quantities  of  fresh  leaf  tissue. 
Phytochemical  Bulletin  19:11-15. 

Haig,  S.M.,  J.M.  Rhymer,  and  D.G.  Heckel.  1994. 
Population  differentiation  in  randomly  amplified 
polymorphic  DNA  of  red-cockaded  woodpeckers 
Picoides  borealis .  Molecular  Ecology  3:581-595. 

Hamrick,  J.L.,  M.J.W.  Godt,  D.A.  Murawski,  and  M.D. 
Loveless.  1991.  Correlations  between  species  traits 
and  allozyme  diversity:  Implications  for  conserva- 
tion biology.  In  Falk,  D.A.,  and  K.E.  Holsinger, 
editors.  Genetics  and  Conservation  of  Rare  Plants, 
pp.  75-86.  Oxford  University  Press,  New  York. 

Jaccard,  P.  1912.  The  distribution  of  the  flora  of  tho 
alpine  zone.  New  Phytologist  11:37-50. 


84 


Kadereit,  J.W.,  F.R.  Blattner,  and  A.  Schwarzbach.  1994. 
Phylogenetic  analysis  of  the  Papaveraceae  s.I.  (in- 
cluding Fumariaceae,  Hypecoaceae,  and  Pteridoplii/1- 
him)  based  on  morphological  characters.  Botanische 
Jahrbucher  fiir  Systematic,  b  116  h  3. 

Lacy,  R.C.  1987.  Loss  of  genetic  diversity  from  managed 
populations:  Interacting  effects  of  drift,  mutation, 
immigration,  selection,  and  population  subdivision. 
Conservation  Biology  1:143-158. 

Nelson,  R.D.  and  K.T.  Harper.  1991.  Site  characteristics 
and  habitat  requirements  of  the  endangered  dwarf 
bear-claw  poppy  {Ardomecon  humilis  Coville,  Papa- 
veraceae). Great  Basin  Naturalist  51:167-175. 

Nelson,  R.D.,  and  S.L.  Welsh.  1993.  Taxonomic  revision 
of  Ardomecon  Torr.  &  Frem.  Rhodora  95:197-213. 

Raynie,  D.E.,  D.R.  Nelson,  and  K.T.  Harper.  1991. 
Alkaloidal  relationships  in  the  genus  Ardomecon 
(Papaveraceae)  and  herbivory  in  A.  humilis.  Great 
Basin  Naturalist  51:397-403. 

Rohlf,  F.J.  1993.  NTSYS-pc.  Numerical  taxonomy  and 
multivariate  analysis  system,  version  1.80.  Applied 
Biostatistics,  Inc.,  Setaudet,  NY. 

Schaal,  B.A.,  W.J.  Leverich,  and  S.H.  Rogstad.  1991.  A 
comparison  of  methods  for  assessing  genetic  varia- 
tion in  plant  conservation  biology.  In  Falk,  D.A.,  and 
K.E.  Holsinger,  editors.  Genetics  and  Conservation  of 
Rare  Plants,  pp.  123-134.  Oxford  Univ.  Press,  NY 


U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1979.  Determination  that 
Ardomecon  humilis  is  an  endangered  species.  Federal 
Register  44:64250-64252. 

Van  Buren,  R.,  K.T.  Harper,  W.R.  Andersen,  D.J.  Stan- 
ton, S.  Seyoum  ,  and  J.L.  England.  1994.  Evaluating 
the  relationship  of  Autumn  Buttercup  {Ranunculus 
acriformis  var.  aestivalis)  to  some  close  congeners  us- 
ing random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA.  American 
Journal  of  Botany  81:514-519. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  N.D.  Atwood,  L.C.  Higgins,  and  S.  Good- 
rich. 1993.  A  Utah  flora.  Great  Basin  Naturalist 
Memoir  9:1-894. 

Welsh,  J.,  and  M.  McClelland.  1990.  Fingerprinting 
genomes  using  PCR  with  arbitrary  primers.  Nucleic 
Acids  Research  18:7213-7218. 

Williams,  J.G.K.,  A.R.  Klubelik,  K.J.  Livak,  J.A.  Rafalski, 
and  S.V.  Tingey.  1990.  DNA  polymorphisms  ampli- 
fied by  arbitrary  primers  are  useful  as  genetic  mark- 
ers. Nucleic  Acids  Research  18:6531-6535. 


85 


Use  of  Random  Amplified  Polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD)  Markers 
for  Genetic  Analysis  of  Lilium  parryi,  a  Rare  Arizona  Plant 

ELIZABETH  FRIAR,!'^  MIMA  FALK,3  and  DAVID  W.  MOUNTI'4 

^Department  of  Molecular  and  Cellular  Biology,  University  of  Arizona,  Tucson,  AZ  85721 
■^Current  address:  Rancho  Santa  Ana  Botanic  Garden,  1500  N.  College  Ave.,  Claremont,  CA  91711 
^Coronado  National  Forest,  300  West  Congress,  Tucson,  AZ  85701 
^Corresponding  author 

Abstract:  Genetic  variation  in  several  different  Arizona  and  California  populations  of  the  rare 
plant  species  Lilium  parryi  Wats,  was  analyzed  using  the  random  amplified  polymorphic 
DNA  (RAPD)  marker  technique.  The  plants  included  two  representatives  of  a  newly  identi- 
fied population  from  east  Turkey  Creek  in  the  Chiricahua  Mountains.  These  recently  discov- 
ered plants  were  strikingly  different  from  all  of  the  other  populations  studied,  including  both 
Arizona  and  California  populations,  indicating  a  significant  level  of  genetic  divergence.  The 
observation  that  this  population  is  genetically  unique  suggests  a  distinct  taxonomic  identity 
and  long-term  genetic  isolation  for  this  population.  In  contrast,  the  majority  of  the  remaining 
Arizona  plants  showed  very  little  genetic  variability  and  appeared  to  represent  a  single  inter- 
breeding group.  Considering  the  overall  genetic  variability,  the  small  population  sizes,  and 
the  rareness  of  the  habitats  required  by  these  plants,  we  propose  that  this  species  should 
qualify  for  additional  protection. 


Introduction 

Lilium  parryi  Wats.,  the  lemon  lily,  is  native  to 
the  San  Gabriel  and  San  Bernadtno  mountains  of 
southern  California  (Mistretta  and  Parra-Szijj 
1991),  southeast  Arizona,  and  Sonora,  Mexico 
(Malusa  et  al.  1993)  at  elevations  of  1700  m  to  3000 
m.  The  plant  is  a  bulbous  herbaceous  perennial 
that  produces  showy,  fragrant  yellow  flowers  with 
red  spots  in  the  throat.  In  California,  populations 
numbering  in  the  thousands  are  found  in  high- 
elevation  meadows,  and  smaller  populations  are 
found  in  canyons  with  perennial  water.  Much 
smaller  populations,  most  numbering  less  than 
100,  are  also  found  in  the  Santa  Rita  and  Huachuca 
Mountains  of  southeast  Arizona  and  in  the 
neighboring  mountain  ranges  of  Sonora,  Mexico. 
An  exception  is  a  population  of  about  500-1000 
plants  in  Miller  Canyon  of  the  Huachuca  Moun- 
tains (Falk  and  Warren  1994,  Warren  et  al.  1989, 
our  surveys).  In  these  locations,  the  lemon  lily 
grows  along  wet  canyon  bottoms  near  a  perennial 
source  of  water.  The  species  is  currently  listed  as 
category  2  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 

A  recent  study  of  California  and  Arizona 
populations  of  Lilium  parryi  using  allozyme  data 
showed  that,  with  respect  to  the  California 
populations,  the  Arizona  populations  (1)  had  less 
variability,  (2)  usually  carried  only  a  subset  of  the 
alleles  present  in  the  California  populations,  and 
(3)  usually  retained  only  the  more  common  alleles 
present  in  the  California  populations  at  a  given 
locus.  These  patterns  of  genetic  variation  were  con- 


sistent with  colonization  of  Arizona  locations  by 
California  plants,  followed  by  loss  of  alleles  due  to 
founder  and  inbreeding  effects  (Linhart  and 
Premoli  1994).  Another  possibility  is  that  all  Ari- 
zona populations  of  L.  parryi  are  relicts  of  a  once 
more  widespread  distribution  that  is  now  confined 
to  small  populations,  which  have  lost  genetic  vari- 
ability due  to  drift. 

In  order  to  investigate  the  origin  of  the  Ari- 
zona plants  further,  we  have  examined  genetic 
variation  in  Lilium  parryi  using  RAPD  loci,  which 
are  more  sensitive  to  genetic  variability  than  the 
allozyme  method  (Rieseberg  and  Ellstrand  1993). 
We  have  acquired  some  experience  in  using  these 
markers  to  analyze  rare  plant  populations  and  we 
describe  these  procedures  and  methods  of  analy- 
sis. In  addition,  a  newly  discovered  and  genetical- 
ly divergent  population  of  L.  parryi  from  east 
Turkey  Creek  in  the  Chiricahua  Mountains  of 
southeast  Arizona  is  analyzed  here  for  the  first 
time.  The  present  paper  summarizes  the  results  of 
this  study,  which  will  be  described  in  detail 
elsewhere. 

Materials  and  Methods 

Two  leaves  were  collected  from  each  o|  the  ,^8 
plants  at  the  locations  indicated  in  Table  1.  . Tissues 
of  plants  from  two  locations  in  southern  Calif prnia 
were  generously  provided  by  Mailie  Neel^ Leaves 
were  stored  in  plastic  bags  on  ice  and  were  placed 
into  storage  at  -70°C  within  48  hours. 


86 


Table  1 .  Origin  of  Liliimi  parryi  plants  used  in  this  study  .* 


Plant  Location 


1  Ramsey  Canyon  1,  Huachuca  Mountains 

2  Ramsey  Canyon  2,  Huachuca  Mountains 

3  Ramsey  Canyon  3,  Huachuca  Mountains 

4  Ramsey  Canyon  4,  Huachuca  Mountains 

5  Ramsey  Canyon  5,  Huachuca  Mountains 

6  Miller  Canyon  Site  B  1,  Huachuca  Mountains 

7  Miller  Canyon  Site  B  2,  Huachuca  Mountains 

8  Miller  Canyon  Site  B  3,  Huachuca  Mountains 

9  Miller  Canyon  Site  B  4,  Huachuca  Mountains 

10  Miller  Canyon  Site  B  5,  Huachuca  Mountains 

11  Miller  Canyon  Site  C  1,  Huachuca  Mountains 

12  Miller  Canyon  Site  C  2,  Huachuca  Mountains 

13  Miller  Canyon  Site  D,  Huachuca  Mountains 

14  Metcalf  Creek  1,  Boulder  Group  Camp,  CA 

15  Lemon  Lily  Spring  1,  CA 

16  Lemon  Lily  Spring  2,  CA 

17  Lemon  Lily  Spring  3,  CA 

18  Lemon  Lily  Spring  4,  CA 

19  Lemon  Lily  Spring  5,  CA 

20  Florida  Canyon  1,  Santa  Rita  Mountains 

21  Florida  Canyon  2,  Santa  Rita  Mountains 

22  Ramsey  Canyon  Site  E,  Huachuca  Mountains 

23  Metcalf  Creek  2,  Boulder  Group  Camp,  CA 

24  Bear  Canyon  1,  Huachuca  Mountains 

25  Bear  Canyon  2,  Huachuca  Mountains 

26  Bear  Canyon  3,  Huachuca  Mountains 

27  Turkey  Creek  1,  Chiricahua  Mountains 

28  Turkey  Creek  2,  Chiricahua  Mountains 

*Plant  numbers  refer  to  field  notes  of  DM  and  MF.  The  Hua- 
chuca and  Chiricahua  mountains  are  in  Cochise  County,  and 
the  Santa  Rita  Mountains  are  in  Santa  Cruz  County,  Arizona. 
The  Lemon  Lily  Springs  plants  are  from  the  SWl  /4  of  sec.  25, 
and  the  Metcalfe  Creek  plants  from  the  SEl/4  of  sec.  26,  town  - 
ship  2N,  range  IW. 

DNA  was  isolated  using  the  procedure  of 
Doyle  and  Doyle  (1990),  except  that  the  CTAB 
extraction  step  was  repeated.  The  step  improved 
reliability  of  PGR  amplification. 

Seven  decanucleotide  primers,  purchased 
from  Operon  Technologies  Inc.,  were  used  to  am- 
plify fragments  from  genomic  DNA.  The  primers 
and  their  sequences  are  listed  in  Table  2.  PGR 
reaction  mixtures  contained  25  nm  DNA,  10  mM 
Tris-Gl  (pH  8.8),  50  mM  KGl,  1.5  mM  MgGl2,  0.01% 
w/v  gelatin,  50  mM  each  dATP,  dGTP,  dGTP, 
dTTP,  1  unit  Taq  polymerase  (Stratagene)  and  0.5 
mM  primer,  for  a  total  reaction  volume  of  30  ml. 
Reactions  were  carried  out  in  a  Getus/Perkin- 
Elmer  thermocycler  with  the  following  reaction 
conditions:  94°  for  3  min.,  followed  by  45  cycles  of 
94°  for  1  min.,  36°  for  1  min.,  and  72°  for  2  min. 
ending  with  1  cycle  of  72°  for  5  min.  The  amplified 


products  were  then  size  fractionated  on  a  1.4% 
agarose  gel  containing  ethidium  bromide  and 
visualized  under  UV  light.  PGR  amplification 
using  a  given  primer  was  performed  on  all  plants 
at  the  same  time,  along  with  controls  lacking  plant 
DNA,  and  the  products  were  then  scored  on  the 
same  gel.  In  a  small  fraction  of  cases,  it  was  neces- 
sary to  rerun  the  reactions  of  certain  plants  since 
no  products  were  obtained.  In  such  cases,  control 
plants  previously  scored  as  positive  or  negative 
were  included.  Using  these  methods,  the  produc- 
tion of  RAPD  bands  was  highly  reproducible. 

Presence  or  absence  of  all  scorable  bands  was 
determined  for  each  plant.  The  amplification  of  an 
RAPD  band  of  the  same  approximate  size  in  two 
plants  was  interpreted  to  mean  that  the  plants 
share  a  particular  DNA  sequence  and  are  similar 
in  the  corresponding  regions  of  the  plant  genome. 
For  within-population  comparisons,  the  percent- 
age of  total  scorable  bands  that  was  polymorphic 
in  each  population  was  determined.  For  between- 
population  comparisons,  genetic  distances  were 
calculated  between  all  pairs  of  plants,  using  the 
formula 

D^  =  1  -  (nXY/(nX  +  nY  -  nXY)) 

where  nXY  is  the  number  of  shared  bands  between 
plants  X  and  Y,  nX  is  the  number  of  bands  present 
in  plant  X,  and  nY  is  the  number  of  bands  present 
in  plant  Y  (Marsolais  et  al.  1993,  Nei  1972).  These 
pairwise  genetic  distances  were  then  used  to 
create  a  dendrogram  showing  the  relationship 
between  individual  plants  using  the  Neighbor- 
Joining  algorithm  from  the  Phylip  suite  of  phy- 
logenetic  programs  (Felsenstein  1993)  using  mid- 
point rooting. 

Genetic  variation  in  the  rare  Arizona  plant 
Lilium  parryi  was  analyzed  using  random  ampli- 
fied polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD)  markers,  as 

Table  2.  Primers  used  for  RAPD  marker  amplification. 


Primer  ID  Code*  Sequence 


F3 

5'-CCTGATCACC-3' 

F13 

5'-GGCTGCAGAA-3' 

G7 

5'-GAACCTGCGG-3' 

G12 

5'-CAGCTCACCA-3' 

G14 

5'-GGATGAGACC-3' 

H6 

5'-ACGCATCGCA-3' 

H16 

5'-TCTCAGCTGG-3' 

*The  primer  ID  code  is  that  assigned  by  Operon  Technology 
Corp. 


87 


described  above.  This  method  depends  upon  the 
selective  amplification  of  random  DNA  sequences 
in  the  target  DNA.  In  normal  polymerase  chain 
reaction  (PCR)  amplification,  two  different  pri- 
mers of  specified  sequence  and  approximately  20 
bp  long  are  used  to  amplify  a  target  DNA  frag- 
ment (Figure  lA).  The  sequence  of  these  primers  is 
based  upon  prior  knowledge  of  a  gene  sequence  in 
another  organism.  In  RAPD  marker  amplification, 
a  single  primer  of  randomly  selected  sequence  and 
approximate  length  10  bp  is  used.  These  primers 
amplify  DNA  sequences  that  carry  a  sequence 
complementary  to  that  of  the  primer  on  both  DNA 
strands.  As  indicated  in  Figure  IB,  these  priming 
sites  must  be  located  approximately  1  kb  apart  for 
successful  amplification  to  occur.  Presence  or  ab- 
sence of  a  particular  amplified  product  is  scorable 
as  a  polymorphism  between  individuals.  The  loss 
of  a  product  is  thought  to  occur  because  of  a  point 
mutation  in  one  of  the  priming  sites,  which 
prevents  primer  annealing  (see  Rieseberg  and 
EUstrand  1993). 

(A)  NORMAL  PCR  USING  TWO  PRIMERS  DIRECTED  TO 
AMPLIFY  A  SPECinC  TARGET  GENE. 

 ►PRIMER  1 

PRIMER  2 

APPROX.  1  KB  AMPLIFIED 

(B)  RAPD  PCR  rSING  A  RANDOMLY  SYNTHESIZED  SHORT 
PRIMER  NOT  DIRECTED  TO  ANY  PARTICULAR  GENE, 

 ^  RANDOM  PRIMER 


RANDOM  PRIMER 

APPROX.  1  KB  AMPLIFIED 

Figure  1.  Comparison  of  normal  PCR  amplification  of 
genomic  DNA  with  RAPD  PCR  amplification. 

RAPD  loci  have  several  distinct  advantages 
for  analysis  of  rare  plant  DNA:  (1)  very  little  plant 
material  is  needed,  (2)  the  method  is  relatively 
simple  and  inexpensive,  and  (3)  polymorphisms 
are  found  quickly.  However,  the  method  also  has 
several  problems  and  limitations.  First,  not  all 
bands  show  clear-cut  intensity  changes  scorable  as 
polymorphisms.  Second,  two  bands  at  the  same 
gel  position  may  not  have  the  same  sequence,  that 
is,  they  may  not  originate  from  the  same  chromo- 
somal location.  The  likelihood  of  sequence  identity 
is  increased  when  analyzing  closely  related  indi- 
viduals. Identity  may  also  be  confirmed  by  cutting 
the  amplified  fragment  with  restriction  endonucle- 


ases  or  by  sequencing.  Third,  absence  of  a  band  in 
two  individuals  may  not  mean  that  these  two 
carry  the  same  sequence  change  which  prevents 
amplification.  Fourth,  the  method  is  sensitive  to 
contaminating  DNAs  from  molds  or  skin  through 
lab  handling.  Fifth,  RAPD  bands  are  not  always 
reproducible  at  a  later  date  or  in  another  lab. 
These  last  two  problems  are  largely  circumvented 
by  careful  experimental  technique,  and  by  ampli- 
fying all  of  the  DNA  samples  with  a  given  primer 
at  the  same  time.  For  example,  Mg++  concentra- 
tion and  ratio  of  genomic  DNA  to  primer  concen- 
tration must  be  carefully  controlled,  and  the  age  of 
specimen  DNA  and  primer  taken  into  account. 

For  genetic  analysis  using  RAPD  data,  we 
define  a  locus  as  a  specific  chromosomal  site  that 
can  potentially  give  rise  to  an  RAPD  band.  Each 
locus  is  assumed  to  be  a  two-allele  system,  a 
marker  allele  that  is  amplified  to  give  an  RAPD 
band  and  a  null  allele  that  is  not  amplified. 
Further,  the  marker  allele  is  assumed  to  be  domi- 
nant (Friar,  Robichaux  and  Mount,  in  preparation). 
When  DNA  derived  from  somatic  tissues  is  used, 
a  band  is  obtained  whether  the  marker  allele  is 
present  on  one  or  both  chromosomes.  According- 
ly, three  categories  of  RAPD  loci  are  defined  in  a 
population  using  this  system.  First,  detectably 
polymorphic  loci  when  the  marker  allele  is  present 
in  some  individuals,  but  not  others.  Second,  de- 
tectably monomorphic  loci  when  the  marker  allele 
is  not  present  in  any  individual  in  the  population. 
Third,  noninformative  loci  when  the  marker  allele 
is  present  and  their  variances  have  been  described 
(Lynch  and  Milligan  1994).  A  phylogenetic  analy- 
sis can  also  be  performed  using  RAPD  loci,  but 
such  an  analysis  assumes  sequence  identity  of  the 
marker  and  null  alleles  in  the  compared  popula- 
tions, an  assumption  that  may  be  difficult  to  test. 

Two  possible  types  of  variation  in  RAPD  loci 
among  populations  are  shown  in  Figure  2.  In  (a), 
there  is  very  little  variation  among  the  three 
individuals  shown,  indicating  a  strong  degree  of 
genetic  similarity.  Such  a  population  may  be 
identical  due  to  the  recent  introduction  of  a  few 
individuals  (founder  effect),  inbreeding  within  the 
population,  some  other  reproductive  or  biological 
property  of  the  species,  or  selection  which  main- 
tains genetic  similarity.  In  Figure  2(b)  there  is  a 
higher  degree  of  RAPD  loci  polymorphism,  indi- 
cating more  genetic  variation  in  the  population. 
However,  some  loci  are  shared  in  this  example, 
also  indicating  genetic  relatedness.  As  the  number 
of  shared  loci  decreases,  the  likelihood  that  similar 
sized  bands  have  the  same  sequence  and  that 


88 


(«)  POPULATION  WITH  LOW  LEVEL  OF  POLYMORHIISM 
PLANT  A  PLANT  B  PLANT  C 


(b)  POPULATION  WITH  HIGH  LEVEL  OF  POLYMORPHISM 
PLANT  A  PLANT  B  PLANT  C 


Figure  2. 
tions. 


Analysis  of  RAPD  band  variation  in  popula- 


absence  of  a  band  is  the  same  allele  also  decreases. 
In  spite  of  these  limitations,  RAPDs  can  provide  a 
quick  and  reliable  analysis  of  genetic  variation,  as 
demonstrated  below  for  Lilium  panyi. 

Results 

Variation  Withiit  Lilium  parryi  Populations 

The  presence  vs.  absence  of  amplified  frag- 
ment bands  was  scored  in  28  plants  using  seven 
RAPD  primers.  Every  primer  used  showed  varia- 
bility in  at  least  one  plant.  Of  a  total  number  of  84 
RAPD  loci  scored,  77  were  detectably  polymorph- 
ic. Among  the  Arizona  populations,  the  percent- 
age of  loci  that  were  detectably  polymorphic 
varied  from  less  than  1  percent  for  the  Miller 
Canyon  population  to  42  percent  for  the  Turkey 
Creek  population  (Table  3).  Thus,  the  amount  of 
genetic  variation  in  these  populations  appears  to 

Table  3.  RAPD  marker  polymorphism  in  populations  of 
Lilium  parryi.* 


Population 
Location 

Estimated 
Population  Size** 

Percent  Variable 
Bands 

Huachuca  Mountains 
Miller  Canyon 
Ramsey  Canyon 
Bear  Canyon 

500-1000  (8) 
10  (6) 
5(3) 

<1 
5 
13 

Santa  Rita  Mountains 
Florida  Canyon 

5(2) 

4 

Chiricahua  Mountains 
Turkey  Creek 

20  (2) 

42 

California  Plants 
Lemon  Lily  Springs 
Metcalf  Creek 

>1000  (4) 
>1000  (1) 

6 

77  bands  were  scored  &  84  of  these  bands  were  polymorphic. 
*  Number  of  plants  sampled  is  shown  in  parentheses. 


be  highly  variable.  The  level  of  detectable  poly- 
morphism in  RAPD  loci  was  least  in  the  Miller 
Canyon  population,  which  has  the  largest  number 
of  individual  plants  among  the  Arizona  popula- 
tions. The  other  Arizona  populations  showed 
intermediate  levels  of  variation  with  4-13  percent 
of  the  loci  being  detectably  polymorphic.  Not 
enough  California  plants  were  analyzed  for  an 
accurate  comparison  with  the  Arizona  plants.  An 
intermediate  level  of  6  percent  of  the  RAPD  loci  in 
two  Lemon  Lily  Spring  plants  were  detectably 
polymorphic. 

Variation  Between  Lilium  parryi  Populations 

The  fraction  of  RAPD  loci  not  shared  between 
each  pair  of  plants  listed  in  Table  1  was  deter- 
mined and  was  then  used  to  calculate  the  average 
distance  between  populations,  as  previously. 
These  averages  were  then  used  to  produce  a  den- 
drogram which  is  overlaid  on  a  location  map  for 
the  populations  in  Figure  3.  The  newly  discovered 
Chiricahua  Mountain  population  was  dramatically 
distant  from  the  remaining  populations  studied. 
The  range  of  distances  between  these  plants  and 
the  others  corresponded  to  0.42-0.51  of  RAPD  loci 
not  being  shared,  a  highly  unusual  amount  of 
variation  for  populations  of  the  same  species.  The 
remaining  Arizona  plants  fell  into  one  group,  of 
which  the  Bear  Canyon  plants  appeared  to  be  the 
most  unique.  Collectively,  all  of  the  Arizona  plants 
occupied  a  common  region  of  the  tree,  indicating  a 
genetic  difference  from  the  California  plants. 

Discussion 

These  studies  of  genetic  variation  in  Arizona 
populations  of  Lilium  parryi  have  revealed  unusual 
variation  both  within  and  between  populations. 
The  most  dramatic  result  was  the  unique  genetic 
composition  of  the  newly  identified  population  in 
the  Chiricahua  Mountains.  These  plants  showed 
approximately  47  percent  nonsharing  of  RAPD 
loci  with  all  other  Arizona  plants  and  California 
plants.  In  addition,  there  was  considerable  varia- 
tion between  the  two  plant  representatives  from 
this  population  (42%  of  RAPD  loci  were  detectably 
polymorphic).  There  was  also  no  evidence  of 
discernible  morphological  differences  among  these 
plants.  Although  this  sample  was  small,  the  results 
clearly  indicate  that  this  population  is  genetically 
both  unique  and  variable.  These  results  raise  the 
possibility  that  these  plants  are  representatives  of 
a  larger  interbreeding  population  close  to  the 
Chiricahua  Mountains,  perhaps  from  other  sites  in 


89 


Huachucha  Mtns. 


Figure  3.  Genetic  relationships  among  Arizona  and 
California  populations  of  Lilium  parryi.  The  distance 
between  the  populations  of  the  Chiricahua  and  Hua- 
chuca  mountains  corresponds  to  approximately  half  of 
the  RAPD  bands  not  shared,  and  the  other  distances  are 
similarly  scaled.  The  map  is  not  to  scale. 

southeast  Arizona,  southwest  New  Mexico,  or 
Sonora,  Mexico.  However,  it  is  also  possible  that 
these  plants  are  recently  derived  from  a  larger 
variable  population  that  has  been  recently  reduced 
in  size,  but  have  not  yet  been  subjected  to  loss  of 
variability  through  inbreeding.  Unfortunately,  a 
large  forest  fire  in  the  Chiricahua  Mountains  in  the 
summer  of  1994  resulted  in  subsequent  flooding 
and  extensive  erosion  of  east  Turkey  Creek,  in- 
cluding the  site  of  the  L.  parryi  population.  In  the 
summer  of  1995,  these  plants  were  no  longer 
present.  It  will  be  interesting  to  monitor  this  site  to 
determine  whether  or  not  this  population  can  re- 
establish itself  in  Turkey  Creek  Canyon. 

The  genetic  differences  between  the  Chirica- 
hua Mountain  plants  and  the  other  Arizona  plants 
suggest  that  there  has  been  no  significant  gene 
flow  between  these  populations.  In  contrast,  there 
is  very  little  RAPD  marker  differentiation  between 
the  Santa  Rita  and  Huachuca  Mountain  popula- 
tions. Since  RAPD  markers  are  highly  sensitive 
indicators  of  genetic  variation,  these  results  show 
that  L.  parryi  from  the  Santa  Rita  Mountains  and 
most  L.  parryi  from  the  Huachuca  Mountains  are 


genetically  very  similar.  This  lack  of  segregation  of 
genetic  similarity  with  geographic  separation 
argues  for  considerable  long-distance  gene  flow 
occurring  within  the  Huachuca  Mountains,  via 
pollen  spread  by  pollinators  or  seed  movement. 
This  situation  would  promote  the  exchange  of 
genetic  information  between  widely  spaced  plants, 
and  reduce  the  amount  of  genetic  differentiation 
between  separate  populations.  Therefore,  it  may 
be  reasonable  to  consider  the  Huachuca  Mountain 
population  to  be  composed  of  a  large  interbreed- 
ing group  of  individuals,  rather  than  a  group  of 
several  smaller  populations.  Since  the  Miller 
Canyon  population  is  the  largest  and  least  variable 
in  Arizona,  this  population  could  have  been  re- 
cently derived  from  a  small  number  of  individual 
plants  or  by  inbreeding,  without  sufficient  time 
having  passed  to  reintroduce  a  higher  level  of 
variability. 

The  above  results  are  in  good  agreement  with 
an  enzyme  polymorphism  study  of  many  of  these 
same  populations  of  L.  parryi  (Linhart  and  Premoli 
1994).  The  raw  percentage  of  RAPD  markers  that 
were  detectably  polymorphic  (<1-13%)  in  the 
Arizona  plants  was  comparable  to  the  percentages 
of  enzyme  loci  that  were  polymorphic  (0-15%  at 
the  95%  probability  level).  In  their  study,  Linhart 
and  Premoli  also  found  Miller  Canyon  plants  to  be 
the  least  variable.  Our  results  support  a  model  of  a 
former  widespread  distribution  of  Lilium  parryi 
followed  by  a  reduced  distribution  into  isolated 
populations  and  long-term  regional  isolation  of 
certain  of  these  populations  from  each  other. 
These  results  do  not  rule  out  an  introduction  of 
California  plants  into  certain  Arizona  locations,  as 
proposed  by  Linhart  and  Premoli  (1994). 

Acknowledgments 

This  work  was  supported  by  contracts  from 
the  Coronado  National  Forest.  We  are  grateful  to 
Mailie  Neel  for  providing  plant  material  from  the 
California  populations  of  Lilium  parryi,  to  Mark 
Fishbein,  Peter  Warren  and  Tom  Wood  for  infor- 
mation and  advice,  and  to  Y.  Linhart  and  A.C. 
Premoli  for  providing  their  manuscript  prior  to 
publication. 

Literature  Cited 

Doyle,  J.J.  and  J.L.  Doyle.  1990.  Isolation  of  plant  DNA 
from  fresh  tissue.  Focus  12  (1):13-15. 

Falk,  D.A.  and  P.L.  Warren.  1994.  Rare  plants  of  the 
Coronado  National  Forest:  Population  studies  and 
monitoring  recommendations.  Report  to  the 
Coronado  National  Forest  by  the  Arizona  Nature 
Conservancy. 


90 


Felsenstein,  J.  1993.  PHYLIP  (Phylogeny  Inference 
Package),  version  3.5c.  Distributed  by  the  author. 
Department  of  Genetics,  University  of  Washington, 
Seattle. 

Linhart,  Y.B.,  and  A.C.  Premoli.  1994.  Genetic  variation 
in  central  and  disjunct  populations  of  Lilium  parryi. 
Canadian  Journal  of  Botany  72:79-85. 

Lynch,  M.  and  B.G.  Milligan.  1994.  Analysis  of  popula- 
tion genetic  structure  with  RAPD  markers.  Molecu- 
lar Ecology  3:91-99. 

Malusa,  J.,  P.  Warren,  and  D.  Gori.  1993.  Population 
studies  of  sensitive  plants  of  the  Coronado  National 
Forest,  Arizona.  Report  to  the  Coronado  National 
Forest  by  the  Arizona  Nature  Conservancy,  Tucson. 

Marsolais,  J.V.,  J.S.  Pringle,  and  B.N.  White.  1993. 
Assessment  of  random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA 
(RAPD)  markers  as  genetic  markers  for  determining 
the  origin  of  interspecific  hybrids.  Taxon  42:531-537. 


Mistretta,  O.  and  Parra-Szijj  (now  Falk),  M.  1991.  Species 
management  guide  for  Lilium  parryi  Wats.  USDA 
Forest  Service  Angeles  National  Forest  Technical 
Report  No.  7. 

Nei,  M.  1972.  Genetic  distance  between  populations. 
American  Naturalist  106:283-292. 

Rieseberg,  L.H.  and  N.C.  Ellstrand.  1993.  What  can 
molecular  and  morphological  markers  tell  us  about 
plant  hybridization?  Critical  Reviews  of  Plant 
Sciences  12:213-241. 

Warren,  P.L.,  L.S.  Anderson  and  P.B.  Shfroth.  1989. 
Population  studies  of  sensitive  plants  of  the  Hua- 
chuca  and  Patagonia  Mountains,  Arizona.  Report  to 
the  Coronado  National  Forest,  by  the  Arizona  Nature 
Conservancy,  Tucson. 


91 


Molecular  and  Adaptive  Variation:  A  Perspective  for  Endangered  Plants 

PHILIP  W.  HEDRICKI  andOUTI  SAVOLAINEN^ 

•^Department  of  Zoology,  Arizona  State  University,  Tempe,  Arizona  85287 
^Department  of  Biology,  University  of  Oulu,  FIN  90570,  Oulu,  Finland 

Abstract:  Molecular  data  are  currently  being  v^idely  used  in  decisions  concerning  endangered 
and  threatened  plant  species.  Although  molecular  data  can  be  valuable  under  many  scena- 
rios, they  may  not  always  be  correlated  with  or  able  to  identify  adaptive  variation,  a  central 
concern  in  conservation  biology.  Below  we  first  present  data  from  Scots  pine,  Pinus  sylvestris, 
that  show  a  lack  of  association  of  individual  allozyme  heterozygosity  and  fitness.  As  a  result 
of  this  study  and  an  examination  of  the  published  results  from  other  studies,  it  appears  that 
what  positive  associations  have  been  observed  are  probably  not,  in  large  part,  due  to  the 
presence  of  intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage.  Second,  while  the  level  of  molecular  variation 
for  allozymes  and  DNA  markers  is  similar  to  that  for  a  quantitative  trait  within  Scots  pine 
populations,  the  extent  of  differentiation  between  populations  is  much  greater  for  the  quanti- 
tative trait  than  for  the  molecular  markers.  From  these  observations  and  other  considerations, 
we  feel  that  molecular  information  should  be  used  very  cautiously  in  attempting  to  under- 
stand adaptive  differences  within  and  between  populations  and  should  be  used  in  conjunc- 
tion with  other  information,  such  as  that  relating  to  the  geographical,  ecological,  life  history, 
historical,  and  other  aspects  of  the  taxa  to  determine  evolutionarily  significant  units. 


Introduction 

Molecular  genetic  variation — for  example  pro- 
tein or  DNA  variation  within  or  among  individ- 
uals, populations,  or  higher  taxa — has  been  widely 
used  to  examine  various  issues  in  biological 
conservation  and  has  been  particularly  useful  in  a 
number  of  arenas.  For  example,  neutral  molecular 
genetic  markers  are  extremely  well  suited  for 
investigation  of  questions  related  to  the  history 
and  structure  of  a  population,  the  mating  or 
reproductive  system  of  an  organism,  or  the  extent 
of  reproductive  isolation  from  other  populations. 
However,  when  investigating  adaptation  within  a 
population  or  adaptive  differences  among  popula- 
tions, the  same  nuclear  markers  that  are  so  useful 
in  determining  non-selective  evolutionary  factors 
may  be  inappropriate,  because  they  may  be 
uncorrelated  with  adaptive  variation.  Further,  in 
determining  the  unit  of  conservation  for  a  species, 
one  should  be  cautious  in  relying  completely  on 
molecular  genetic  variation,  because  of  the  poten- 
tial lack  of  correlation  with  adaptive  differences. 
As  a  result  we  advocate  a  comprehensive  evalua- 
tion of  all  available  information:  genetic,  distribu- 
tional, ecological,  historical,  etc.,  in  determining 
conservation  units,  an  approach  similar  to  that 
used  in  determining  evolutionarily  significant 
units  in  salmon  in  the  northwestern  United  States 
(Waples  1995). 

The  application  of  molecular  techniques  to 
document  the  large  amount  of  genetic  variation  in 
many  species  was  one  of  the  major  breakthroughs 


in  evolutionary  genetics  (see  Lewontin  1991). 
However,  since  this  discovery,  a  heated  debate  has 
continued  concerning  the  mechanisms  responsible 
for  maintaining  this  genetic  variation.  Although 
the  overall  pattern  of  variation  for  allozymes 
(allelic  enzyme  variants),  both  within  and  between 
populations,  is  generally  consistent  with  expecta- 
tions assuming  that  variants  are  equally  fit  or 
neutral  with  respect  to  each  other  (e.g.,  Nei  1987), 
some  studies  appear  to  indicate  that  different 
allozyme  genotypes  may  have  different  fitness 
consequences  (e.g.,  Koehn  et  al.  1988).  Further, 
there  have  been  reports  that  the  extent  of  allozyme 
heterozygosity  in  an  individual  may  be  correlated 
with  various  quantitative  traits,  including  a  num- 
ber of  fitness  components  and  life-history  traits, 
although  this  finding  is  far  from  universal  (for 
recent  reviews,  see  Houle  1989,  Bush  and  Smouse 
1992,  Pogson  and  Zouros  1994).  In  addition,  some 
studies  suggest  that  the  level  of  heterozygosity 
within  a  population  may  be  correlated  with  the 
fitness  of  the  population  (Quattro  and  Vrijenhoek 
1989,  however,  see  Sheffer  et  al.  1995)  or  that  the 
level  of  molecular  differentiation  between  popula- 
tions is  predictive  of  the  level  of  adaptive  differen- 
tiation between  them. 

The  data  presented  below  on  these  questions 
are  generally  not  from  rare  and  endangered  plants 
of  the  Southwest,  but  are  from  a  species,  Scots  pine 
{Pinus  sylvestris),  for  which  there  are  extensive 
data  sets,  mainly  because  of  its  commercial  impor- 
tance. From  these  studies,  we  can  understand  the 


92 


basic  mechanisms  responsible  for  the  relationship 
(or  lack  thereof)  between  molecular  variation  and 
adaptive  variation  and  thereby  have  a  reasonable 
basis  for  inferring  any  possible  relationships  in  en- 
dangered plants,  species  in  which  such  extensive 
experimentation  or  study  is  generally  not  possible 
(or  at  least  not  yet  done). 

Individual  Heterozygosity  and  Fitness 

Determining  the  generality  of  the  correlation 
between  molecular  measures  of  genetic  variation 
and  adaptive  variation  is  of  great  significance  in 
evolutionary  genetics,  plant  breeding,  and  conser- 
vation of  endangered  or  threatened  species.  For 
example,  in  tree  breeding  (and  captive  breeding  of 
endangered  animals),  it  has  been  suggested  that 


individual  heterozygosity,  the  proportion  of 
sampled  loci  heterozygous  in  a  given  individual, 
be  measured  and  individuals  with  the  highest 
heterozygosity  be  selected  as  breeders.  Although 
these  ideas  have  not  been  widely  adopted  in 
silviculture,  there  is  a  general  interest  in  finding  a 
molecular  genetics  approach  to  complement  the 
recognized  plant  breeding  methods  generally  used 
(e.g..  Bush  and  Smouse  1992). 

There  are  three  major  genetic  explanations  for 
positive  associations  between  individual  heterozy- 
gosity and  components  of  fitness,  such  as  viability, 
fecundity,  or  mating  success,  or  other  quantitative 
traits,  such  as  diameter  or  height  (e.g.,  Charles- 
worth  1991,  Houle  1989).  First  (Figure  la),  hetero- 
zygotes  at  the  molecular  locus  itself  may  have  a 


(a)  Intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage 

Genotype  /A<|/Ai  A'^A2  ^2^2 

Fitness  1  -  1  ^  -  $2 

(b)  Apparent  heterozygote  advantage  due  to  linkage  disequilibria 

-         >Ai  +  -  A2~-*' 
Genotype  zizzzz.        zzznn  zzizi: 

/A-i  +  -        /A2  -  +  ^2' 

Fitness  1-^1  1  ^  -  $2 

(c)  Apparent  heterozygote  advantage  due  to  genotypic  association 

•  -  selfed  progeny  o  -  outcrossed  progeny 


Figure  1.  The  three  different  explanations  for  an  association  between  individual  molecular  heterozygosity 
and  fitness:  (a)  intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage,  (b)  apparent  heterozygote  advantage  due  to  linkage  dis- 
equilibria, and  (c)  apparent  heterozygote  advantage  due  to  genotypic  association. 


93 


higher  fitness  or  quantitative  trait  value  than 
homozygotes;  that  is,  there  is  intrinsic  heterozy- 
gote  advantage  (or  overdominance,  as  it  is  often 
called)  at  the  loci  being  examined.  Although 
intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage  is  a  commonly 
cited  mechanism  for  maintenance  of  genetic 
polymorphism  (two  or  more  genetic  variants  at  a 
given  locus),  its  presence  has  been  extraordinarily 
difficult  to  document  both  in  its  simplest  form 
(e.g.,  Allison  1964)  or  as  an  average  over  various 
environments  (e.g.,  Hedrick  1986). 

Second  (Figure  lb),  statistical  associations 
between  the  alleles  at  molecular  loci  and  alleles  at 
other,  generally  unidentified  selected  loci  may 
result  in  an  apparent  heterozygote  advantage  at 
the  molecular  loci.  Usually  the  loci  showing  such 
associations  are  linked  in  random-mating  popula- 
tions, but  may  likely  be  unlinked  in  highly  selfing 
populations.  The  extent  of  such  statistical  associa- 
tions is  determined  by  a  measure  termed  linkage 
(or  gametic)  disequilibrium  (e.g.,  Hedrick  1985). 
The  unidentified,  selected  loci  are  probably 
dominant,  masking  the  detrimental  effects  of 
recessive  alleles  at  several  loci  so  that  overall  they 
may  result  in  the  appearance  of  heterozygote  ad- 
vantage, also  termed  associative  overdominance, 
at  the  molecular  loci  (Frydenberg  1963,  Houle 
1989,  Zouros  1993).  The  statistical  associations 
(linkage  disequilibria)  between  alleles  at  molecular 
loci  and  selected  loci,  an  essential  part  of  this 
scenario,  may  be  generated  by  such  evolutionary 
factors  as  genetic  drift  (sampling  effects  in  small 
populations)  or  by  population  structure  (genetic 
isolation  among  various  parts  of  the  population) 
(e.g.,  Hedrick  1985). 

Finally,  there  may  be  associations  of  molecular 
genotypes  and  components  of  fitness  or  quantita- 
tive traits  due  to  the  presence  of  high  amounts  of 
inbreeding  or  different  levels  of  inbreeding  in  the 
population,  a  phenomenon  that  can  be  called 
multilocus  genotypic  association  and  quantified 
using  the  concept  of  identity  disequilibrium  (see 
Charlesworth  1991  for  a  detailed  explanation).  In 
this  case  again,  neutral  molecular  alleles  may 
show  apparent  heterozygote  advantage,  here  due 
to  the  genotypic  associations  caused  by  inbreeding 
effects  and  generally  enhanced  by  linkage.  As  a 
simple  example  (Figure  Ic)  of  what  may  occur 
even  when  there  are  no  linkage  disequilibria 
between  the  molecular  loci  and  selected  loci,  if 
inbred  individuals  that  have  both  low  molecular 
heterozygosity  and  low  fitness  are  unknowingly 
lumped  or  pooled  in  a  sample  with  outbred 
individuals  that  have  relatively  higher  values  of 


both  heterozygosity  and  fitness,  then  a  positive 
association  of  individual  heterozygosity  and  a 
fitness  component  may  occur  (e.g.,  Ledig  et  al. 
1983,  Ledig  1986,  Hedrick  1990).  Because  the  type 
of  parents  (related  or  unrelated)  is  generally  not 
known,  such  lumping  of  individuals  may  occur, 
for  example,  when  there  is  a  mixture  of  selfed  and 
outcrossed  progeny  either  within  or  between  prog- 
eny groups. 

In  the  data  presented  below  (and  given  in 
greater  detail  in  Savolainen  and  Hedrick  1995),  we 
have  attempted  to  determine  if  intrinsic  heterozy- 
gote advantage  is  likely  to  be  a  major  factor  result- 
ing in  a  correlation  between  allozyme  heterozy- 
gosity and  a  number  of  quantitative  traits  related 
to  fitness  in  Scots  pine,  Pinus  sylvestris.  For  the  two 
types  of  apparent  heterozygote  advantage  to  be 
operative,  a  statistical  association  between  the 
allozyme  loci  and  other  selected  loci  needs  to  have 
been  generated  by  genetic  drift,  population  struc- 
ture, or  inbreeding.  In  this  study,  there  are  two 
factors  that  indicate  that  if  such  a  correlation  is 
observed,  it  is  very  likely  to  be  the  result  of 
intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage. 

First,  Scots  pine  in  Finland  (and  other  areas) 
has  a  very  large  population  size  with  extensive 
pollen  flow  so  that  any  associations  caused  by 
linkage  disequilibria  generated  by  genetic  drift  or 
population  structure  are  unlikely  (e.g.,  Muona  and 
Szmidt  1985,  Muona  and  Harju  1989).  Second, 
even  though  Scots  pine  is  self-compatible,  at  the 
mature  seed  stage  less  than  5  percent  of  the  selfs 
remain  (Muona  and  Harju  1989).  While  seeds 
show  an  excess  of  homozygosity  due  to  selfing, 
adult  tree  genotypes  in  Scots  pine  populations  are 
in  Hardy-Weinberg  proportions  (e.g.,  Muona  and 
Harju  1989)  and  there  is  no  genetic  evidence  of 
inbreds  surviving.  Other  data,  such  as  the  very 
high  genetic  load  and  extremely  high  seed-to- 
adult  mortality  in  Scots  pine  in  Finnish  forests, 
also  make  it  extremely  unlikely  that  there  are  any 
inbreds  among  adults  (e.g.,  Savolainen  and  Kark- 
kainen  1992).  As  a  result,  it  is  unlikely  that  we 
would  observe  in  Scots  pine  an  association  gener- 
ated by  any  of  the  non-selective  evolutionary 
factors  mentioned  above,  such  as  genetic  drift, 
population  structure,  or  inbreeding,  unless  the 
selected  loci  involved  were  very  closely  linked  to 
the  allozyme  loci. 

In  addition,  several  experimental  aspects  of 
these  data  may  also  allow  documentation  of 
intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage  in  Scots  pine  if  it 
is  indeed  present.  First,  six  different  quantitative 
traits  related  to  fitness  were  measured,  including 


94 


measures  related  to  viability  and  to  both  female 
and  male  reproduction.  Second,  because  of  the 
high  allozyme  heterozygosity  in  Scots  pine,  12  loci 
were  polymorphic  so  that  there  was  a  large  range 
of  individual  heterozygosity.  Third,  genotypes  in 
two  of  the  populations  (Viitaselka  and  Vilhelmin- 
maki)  have  been  cloned  and  measurements  were 
taken  on  multiple  ramets  of  the  same  clone  so  that 
an  excellent  measure  of  the  intrinsic  genotypic 
value  for  the  quantitative  trait  is  possible.  Fourth, 
the  other  population,  Yllastunturi,  was  close  to 
tree  line  above  the  Arctic  Circle,  one  of  the  most 
extreme  and  stressful  natural  environments  for 
Scots  pine  anywhere. 

To  determine  whether  there  is  an  association 
between  heterozygosity  and  these  quantitative 
traits,  we  used  several  different  approaches.  For 
example,  for  each  combination  of  locus,  popula- 
tion, and  trait,  we  carried  out  an  ANOVA  between 
homozygotes  and  heterozygotes.  Overall,  of  156 
such  comparisons,  only  12  or  7.7  percent  were 
significant,  very  close  to  the  5  percent  expected  by 
chance.  And  in  the  12  significant  tests,  the  hetero- 
zygotes had  higher  values  in  six  and  the  homozy- 
gotes had  higher  values  in  the  other  six.  We  also 
looked  to  see  if  any  loci  showed  a  greater  than  5 
percent  proportion  of  tests  significant  and  no  locus 
had  more  than  two  significant  tests  over  the  three 
populations  and  the  six  different  traits. 


Effects  of  individual  alleles  were  also  studied 
by  regression  analyses  (see  Savolainen  and 
Hedrick  1995  for  details).  Over  all  these  tests,  the 
Viitaselka  population  had  the  highest  number,  15 
out  of  144,  or  10.4  percent,  of  the  tests  (ANOVA 
and  regression)  significant  while  Vilhelminmaki 
had  6  of  72  or  8.3  percent  significant  and  Yllastun- 
turi had  4  of  96  or  4.1  percent  significant.  Because 
the  quantitative  traits  in  both  Viitaselka  and 
Vilhelminmaki  were  based  on  means  of  five  or  six 
trees  of  the  same  genotype,  one  might  expect  that 
if  there  was  any  intrinsic  association,  it  would 
most  likely  be  picked  up  in  these  populations.  On 
the  other  hand,  because  the  Yllastunturi  popula- 
tion is  in  a  very  extreme  environment  at  tree  line 
above  the  Arctic  Circle,  one  might  expect  that  any 
associations  would  be  more  apparent  in  such  a 
marginal  environment.  In  any  case,  the  proportion 
of  significant  tests  in  all  the  populations  was  not 
much  different  from  5  percent,  suggesting  that 
these  effects  had  only  marginal,  if  any,  influence. 

A  useful  way  to  illustrate  these  results  is  given 
in  Figure  2  (after  Houle  1989)  in  which  the  level  of 
significance  is  given  for  the  three  populations  and 
12  different  loci  for  ANOVA.  Obviously,  there  is 
no  pattern  for  these  results,  such  as  a  clustering 
near  the  5  percent  significance  vertical  line  for 
different  loci  or  populations.  This  supports  the 
above  conclusion  that  there  are  no  locus-  or 


Viitaselka 


Vilhelminmaki 


Yllastunturi 


A  CO 

FEat 

Gdh 

Got-2 

Lap-1 

Lap-2 

Mdh-1 

Mdh-2 

6-Pg-l 

6-Pg-2 

Sdh-1 

Sdh-2 


1 

»l  • 

• 

1 

i 

•  •  • 

1 

-  1 

1 

•• 

•  • 

•  1 

1 

1 

»-'  m 

•  •• 

-4  •• 

•  - 

^  •• 

1 

•   •  » 

1 

• 

• 

•  • 

• 

•  •< 

1 

• 

• 

• 

1 

1 

• 

• 

1 

m  9  - 

-  « 

1        1  1 
•  • 

1 

•  • 

• 

• 

• 

•  • 

•  • 

•  - 

-'  • 

•  • 

• 

• 

•  • 

«| 

•  • 

•  • 

• 

• 

-• 

•  • 

1        1  1 

1 

- — I  1  \  -1 

I*     •       •  • 

•  •    •  • 

•  •  • 

•  •  • 

•  •  •  • 

•  •         •  • 
•  •  •• 

•    •    •  • 

•  •  • 

•  •  • 


• 

J  L_ 


0.0    0.2    0.4    0.6    0.8     1.0  0.0    0.2    0.4    0.6    0.8     1.0  Q.O    0.2    0.4    0.6    0.8  1.0 


Figure  2.  The  probability  of  significance  level  for  a  difference  between  heterozygotes  and  homozygotes 
from  the  ANOVA  for  the  12  polymorphic  loci  in  the  three  different  populations.  The  individual  points  are 
the  probability  level  for  a  given  quantitative  trait.  The  vertical  broken  lines  indicate  significance  at  the  5 
percent  level. 


95 


population-specific  effects  on  these  traits,  favoring 
either  heterozygotes  or  homozygotes. 

Because  these  traits  individually  appear  to  be 
unrelated  to  the  allozyme  variants,  we  made  a 
simple  composite  fitness  measure  of  the  traits  that 
may  give  a  value  more  closely  related  to  overall 
fitness  (see  Savolainen  and  Hedrick  1995).  This 
composite  measure  of  fitness  can  be  calculated  for 
each  tree  and  then  compared  to  its  heterozygosity. 
None  of  these  tests  were  significant  for  the  three 
populations.  In  other  words,  this  composite  meas- 
ure of  fitness  does  not  detect  any  effects  of  the 
allozymes  that  were  missed  by  examining  only 
one  of  the  quantitative  traits  related  to  fitness. 

As  another  approach  to  examining  the  associa- 
tion of  heterozygosity  and  the  various  quantitative 
traits,  the  association  of  the  number  of  heterozy- 
gous loci  in  individual  trees  and  the  value  of  the 
six  different  traits  was  examined  in  the  three 
populations  using  multiple  regression.  Out  of  16 
combinations  of  traits  and  populations,  none  were 
significant  at  the  5  percent  level.  Over  all  these 
combinations,  only  5.8  percent  of  the  variation 
(average  value)  was  explained  by  the  multiple 
regression  analysis.  In  fact,  much  of  this  variance 
was  explained  by  a  negative  association  of  hetero- 
zygosity and  the  quantitative  traits. 

As  a  graphical  way  to  illustrate  these  results. 
Figure  3  gives  for  individuals  with  different  num- 
bers of  heterozygous  loci,  the  values  of  three  traits, 
pollen  production,  cone  production,  and  height, 
for  the  three  different  populations.  Because  there 
is  high  polymorphism  at  a  number  of  loci  in  these 
populations,  the  range  of  individual  heterozygos- 
ity is  high  compared  to  many  other  studies.  Obvi- 
ously, there  is  no  apparent  positive  association  in 
Figure  3;  for  example,  low  individual  heterozy- 
gosity does  not  necessarily  imply  low  values  for 
these  traits  and  high  heterozygosity  does  not 
necessarily  imply  high  values  for  these  traits.  In 
fact,  there  appears  to  be  a  general  lack  of  pattern 
between  these  traits  (and  the  other  traits  that  are 
not  shown  here)  and  individual  heterozygosity. 

Molecular  and  Adaptive  Differences 

Between  Populations 

Genetic  differences  between  populations  may 
be  the  result  of  several  evolutionary  factors  (e.g., 
Hedrick  1985).  For  example,  isolated  or  peripheral 
populations  may  have  less  molecular  variation 
than  other  populations  because  of  genetic  drift, 
either  through  small  population  size,  repeated 
bottlenecks,  or  low  founder  numbers.  However,  if 


peripheral  populations  have  not  been  isolated  for 
long,  the  cumulative  effects  of  genetic  drift  may 
not  yet  have  had  much  impact.  Populations  may 
become  differentiated  if  they  are  somewhat  repro- 
ductively  isolated  from  each  other  (not  connected 
by  gene  flow)  so  that  genetic  drift  and  mutation 
result  in  cumulative  molecular  genetic  differences. 
Genetic  variation  may  be  restored  to  isolated 
populations  by  gene  flow  or  mutation  and  differ- 
entiated populations  may  become  similar  for 
molecular  variants  if  gene  flow  is  substantial  (ap- 
proximately one  or  more  migrants  per  generation). 

For  adaptive  genetic  variation  to  be  accumu- 
lated in  a  population,  the  size  of  the  selective  dif- 
ference needs  to  be  larger  than  the  effect  of  genetic 
drift.  In  a  similar  manner,  the  extent  of  selection 
must  be  larger  than  the  amount  of  gene  flow  for 
selective  differences  to  occur  even  though  there  is 
gene  flow  from  outside  the  area  of  selection.  Of 
course,  selective  differences  can  only  occur  if 
genetic  variation  is  present  that  allows  adaptation. 
If  it  is  not  present,  it  may  be  introduced  by 
mutation,  gene  flow,  or  recombination.  If  some 
populations  exist  in  habitats  with  different  en- 
vironments than  other  populations,  then  adaptive 
genetic  differences  between  the  populations  may 
result  because  of  differential  selection. 

With  this  context,  let  us  discuss  the  molecular 
and  adaptive  variation  that  is  found  in  Scots  pine 
in  Finland.  Scots  pine  colonized  Finland  after  the 
last  glaciation  and  has  been  in  areas  of  northern 
Finland  for  less  than  10,000  years  (Eronen  and 
Huttunen  1993)  or  only  a  few  hundred  genera- 
tions. The  environment  of  northern  Finland  is 
quite  severe  because  of  the  extreme  cold  and  the 
very  short  growing  season.  As  an  illustration  of 
this  severity,  the  probability  of  a  Scots  pine  seed 
crop  here  (an  area  with  only  50%  germination 
ability)  is  less  than  5  percent,  because  the  growing 
season  is  generally  too  short  for  seed  maturation 
(Henttonen  et  al.  1986). 

As  we  discussed  above,  Scots  pine  populations 
are  highly  variable  for  molecular  markers.  The 
level  of  allozyme  heterozygosity  is  high  in  nearly 
all  populations,  north  and  south,  and  the  popula- 
tions from  north  to  south,  about  1000  km,  are 
hardly  differentiated  (see  Table  1)  (Karhu  et  al. 
1995).  Notice  that  the  mean  heterozygosity  value  is 
0.35  in  both  southern  and  northern  groups  of 
populations  and  that  the  level  of  differentiation 
(0.02)  is  near  its  minimum  of  zero,  which  would 
occur  if  the  allele  frequencies  were  identical  in  the 
two  groups. 


96 


Viitaselka 


Vilhelminmaki 


Yllastunturi 


5 

1000 

c 

o 

800 

3 

600 

o 

400 

a 

c 

200 

jj) 

"o 

0 

1 

500  r 

• 

400  - 

300  - 

200  ^- 

• 

100  - 

• 

0  - 

1 

20 
15 
10 
5 
0 


"1  1  1  1  [  r 


• : !  •  • 


J  \  \  I  I  L 


0      1      2     3     4     5     6  7 
Number  of  heterozygous  loci 


Figure  3.  The  phenotypic  values  of  three  quantitative  traits,  height,  cone  production  and  pollen  produc- 
tion, for  clonal  means  (Viitaselka  and  Vilhelminmakii)  or  individuals  (Yllastunturi)  with  different  num- 
bers of  heterozygous  loci. 


Table  1.  The  percentage  of  variation  that  occurs  within  and  be  - 
tween  southern  and  northern  populations  for  molecular  traits 
and  adaptive  traits  in  Scots  pine  (after  Karhu  et  al.  1995).  The 
molecular  genetic  diversity  within  populations  (measured  as 
expected  heterozygosity)  and  genetic  differentiation  between 
populations  for  all  traits  have  ranges  from  a  minimum  of  0.0  to 
a  maximum  of  1.0.  The  genetic  diversity  for  the  budset  date 
was  measured  as  the  phenotypic  standard  deviation  and 
genetic  differentiation  as  the  proportion  of  the  between - 
population  variance  component  (see  Karhu  et  al.  1995  for 
details). 


Genetic  Diversity 
Within 


Character 


Southern 


Northern 


Genetic 
Differentiation 
Between 
N'n  &  S'n 


Molecular 

AUozymes  0.35  0.35  0.02 

RFLPs  0.44  0.54  0.02 

Microsatellites  0.74  0.80  0.02 

Adaptive  budset  date  169.0  171.6  0.36 


This  same  pattern  is  also  observed  for  the  two 
types  of  DNA  markers,  restriction  fragment  length 
polymorphisms  (RFLPs)  and  microsatellite  loci, 
given  in  Table  1.  For  both  types  of  markers,  the 
level  of  variation  is  high  within  both  population 
groups  and  quite  similar  (the  slightly  higher  diver- 
sity values  in  the  northern  populations  are  not 
significantly  so).  Again,  the  level  of  differentiation 
between  northern  and  southern  populations  is 
very  small  for  these  two  different  DNA  markers 
and  is  consistent  with  the  allozyme  similarities. 

On  the  other  hand,  common  garden  experi- 
ments and  transplants  have  shown  that  the  north- 
ern and  southern  populations  are  highly  differen- 
tiated with  respect  to  a  number  of  traits  that  confer 
adaptation  to  the  severe  northern  conditions.  From 
a  number  of  such  experiments  in  Finland  and 
Sweden,  a  rule  of  thumb  is  that  trees  moved  more 
than  100  km  north  suffer  greatly  in  performance. 
For  example,  experiments  in  Sweden  have  shown 


97 


that  survival  is  reduced  by  7  percent  per  degree 
increase  in  latitude  (and  also  decreased  16%  per 
100  m  increase  in  elevation)  (Persson  and  Stahl 
1990).  Similar  adaptive  local  differentiation  has 
been  found  in  a  number  of  other  conifers  (e.g., 
Rehfeldt  1979). 

Table  1  also  gives  the  extent  of  variation  from 
common  garden  experiments  for  a  quantitative 
trait  related  to  fitness,  budset  date,  which  is 
related  to  frost  tolerance  (Karhu  et  al.  1995,  Hurme 
et  al.,  in  preparation)  for  southern  and  northern 
populations.  As  for  the  molecular  traits,  the  two 
groups  of  populations  have  similar  and  high 
amounts  of  within-population  variation.  On  the 
other  hand,  when  the  level  of  differentiation  of 
date  of  first  budset  between  the  populations  is 
examined,  there  is  a  very  large  difference  (0.34), 
much  larger  than  the  differentiation  for  the  molec- 
ular traits  and  reflecting  the  differences  seen  from 
the  transplant  experiments  mentioned  above. 

For  all  the  traits  studied,  both  molecular  and 
quantitative,  there  is  an  extensive  amount  of 
variation  within  a  population.  This  is  consistent 
with  the  evidence  suggesting  that  the  effective 
population  size  of  Scots  pine  is  quite  large,  both 
because  of  the  large  number  of  individuals  and  the 
extensive  pollen  gene  flow  that  takes  place  over 
many  kilometers.  As  a  result,  there  is  little  differ- 
entiation for  the  molecular  markers,  because 
presumably  any  selective  differences  that  may 
occur  are  small  in  comparison  to  the  level  of  gene 
flow.  On  the  other  hand,  the  selective  differences 
between  environments  south  to  north  are  quite 
substantial  so  that  genes  that  confer  adaptive 
differences  become  highly  differentiated  in  a 
relatively  short  time  in  spite  of  the  high  level  of 
gene  flow.  In  other  words,  in  this  context  the  lack 
of  correlation  of  the  pattern  of  molecular  and 
adaptive  traits  over  space  is  not  unexpected.  These 
results  demonstrate  that  studies  of  allozyme  or 
DNA  markers  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  examin- 
ing the  genetic  variation  for  adaptive  traits  them- 
selves. 

There  are  extensive  efforts  to  identify  the 
genes  involved  in  traits  that  may  confer  differen- 
tial adaptation  for  quantitative  traits.  In  the  case  of 
Scots  pine,  if  a  large  part  of  the  variation  in  budset 
is  determined  by  only  a  few  genes,  it  may  be 
possible  to  find  molecular  markers  associated  with 
the  genes  causing  these  adaptive  differences.  On 
the  other  hand,  if  many  genes  of  small  effects  are 
responsible  for  the  adaptive  variation,  then  such 
markers  would  be  of  limited  use. 


Discussion 
Individual  Heterozygosity  and  Fitness 

From  the  data  presented  above  for  Scots  pine, 
it  appears  that  intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage  is 
probably  not  a  common  explanation  for  an  associ- 
ation of  heterozygosity  and  fitness.  In  endangered 
species,  if  populations  exist  in  which  such  an 
association  occurs,  then  it  is  likely  due  to  one  of 
the  two  mechanisms  discussed  above  that  result  in 
apparent  heterozygote  advantage.  However,  one 
should  fully  evaluate  the  complete  situation,  that 
is,  examine  the  potential  for  genetic  drift,  the  type 
and  extent  of  population  structure,  and  the  level 
and  variation  in  inbreeding,  as  well  as  both  the 
reliability  and  power  of  the  molecular  and  fitness 
data,  before  making  conclusions. 

The  extent  of  apparent  heterozygote  advan- 
tage resulting  from  linkage  disequilibria  of  molec- 
ular markers  with  selected  loci  is  the  result  of  the 
effects  of  finite  population  size  and  population 
structure  generating  interlocus  associations,  an 
impact  that  could  be  large  in  an  endangered 
species.  In  this  case,  heterozygous  individuals  for 
a  molecular  marker  would  have  at  least  one  copy 
of  a  favorable  allele  at  the  associated  fitness  loci. 
As  a  result,  such  heterozygotes  may  be  better  than 
homozygotes,  which  would  have  two  detrimental 
alleles  at  some  fitness  loci.  The  extent  of  apparent 
heterozygote  advantage  resulting  from  multilocus 
genotypic  association  depends  on  the  level  of 
inbreeding  and  the  variation  of  inbreeding  among 
individuals.  For  example,  variation  in  the  degree 
of  inbreeding  among  individuals  may  be  high  in 
self-compatible  plants  in  a  low  enough  density  so 
that  they  receive  little  pollen  from  other  plants, 
thereby  allowing  selfing  to  occur  as  well  as 
outcrossing.  In  this  case,  individuals  with  high 
heterozygosity  could  have  high  fitness,  because 
they  most  likely  would  be  the  result  of  outcros- 
sing. However,  the  effects  from  both  of  these 
causes  of  apparent  heterozygote  advantage  may 
not  be  large  so  we  suggest  that  caution  be  used  in 
any  recommendations  without  detailed  knowl- 
edge of  the  evolutionary  factors  that  could  con- 
tribute to  the  causes  of  apparent  heterozygote 
advantage. 

A  number  of  previous  studies  have  searched 
for  a  relationship  between  individual  heterozy- 
gosity and  traits  related  to  fitness  in  trees.  We  do 
not  know  how  many  studies  have  been  carried  out 
that  found  no  such  association  and  therefore  their 
results  were  not  reported,  but  any  such  reporting 
bias  would  overestimate  the  ubiquity  of  the  phe- 


98 


nomenon  (for  a  discussion  of  an  analogous  bias  for 
studies  of  natural  selection,  see  Endler  1986).  In 
addition,  a  majority  of  the  positive  reports  for 
trees  have  been  made  by  a  relative  few  researchers 
and  their  colleagues,  suggesting  that  there  may  be 
some  bias  from  these  researchers  in  reporting  only 
results  that  show  a  positive  association  between 
heterozygosity  and  a  trait  related  to  fitness. 

In  our  opinion,  the  support  for  a  positive  asso- 
ciation due  to  intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage  is 
not  strong  even  in  the  studies  reporting  a  positive 
relationship  if  they  are  critically  evaluated.  There 
are  a  number  of  other  published  studies  that  have 
concluded  that  there  is  little  evidence  for  intrinsic 
heterozygote  advantage  in  conifers.  Ledig  et  al. 
(1983)  found  a  positive  relationship  between 
heterozygosity  and  growth  rate  in  Pinus  rigida  and 
concluded  that  this  association  was  due  to  in- 
breeding depression  from  partial  selfing.  Strauss 
and  Libby  (1986)  studied  clonal  replicates  of  10- 
year-old  Pinus  radiata  seedlings  and  concluded 
that  intrinsic  heterozygote  advantage  was  a  very 
unlikely  explanation  for  an  association  of  allozyme 
heterozygosity  and  quantitative  traits.  Strauss 
(1986)  also  studied  a  more  controlled  situation, 
where  he  included  selfs  and  crosses  between 
different  trees  of  Pinus  attenuata.  Outcrosses  did 
not  show  consistent  relationships,  but  among  the 
inbreds,  heterozygosity  was  positively  correlated 
with  trunk  growth  and  cone  production.  A  study 
of  family  mean  heterozygosity  versus  growth  rates 
provided  no  evidence  for  heterozygote  superiority 
for  growth  in  Pseudotsuga  menziesii  (Bongarten  et 
al.  1985).  Bush  and  Smouse  (1991)  studied  selfs 
and  crosses  in  Pinus  taeda  and  found  little  evidence 
for  heterozygote  advantage. 

There  have  also  been  a  large  number  of  stu- 
dies examining  the  association  of  individual 
heterozygosity  and  quantitative  traits,  particularly 
growth  rate,  in  mollusks  (see  Zouros  and  Foltz 
1987).  However,  in  many  of  the  studies  that  do 
show  a  positive  relationship  between  heterozy- 
gosity and  a  quantitative  trait,  there  also  appears 
to  be  a  deficiency  of  heterozygotes  in  the  early  age 
classes  (e.g.  Gaffney  et  al.  1990).  This  suggests  that 
population  structure  or  some  other  factor  influenc- 
ing genotypic  frequencies  may  be  causing  an 
association  between  the  allozyme  loci  and  loci 
affecting  the  trait  being  examined. 

In  a  sophisticated  extension  to  the  previous 
approaches,  Pogson  and  Zouros  (1994)  detected 
some  positive  association  between  multiple-locus 
heterozygotes  and  a  measure  of  size  in  scallops  for 
allozyme  loci,  but  not  for  other  loci  identified  by 


DNA  markers  in  the  same  population.  However, 
only  one  allozyme  locus  had  a  significant  positive 
effect  on  size,  and  regression  analysis  showed  that 
the  allozyme  data  explained  only  3  percent  of  the 
variance  for  size.  As  they  state,  "the  differences 
observed  between  the  effects  of  allozyme  and 
RFLP  heterozygosity  on  growth  rate  provide  evi- 
dence against  the  associative  overdominance  hy- 
pothesis, but  a  strong  case  against  this  explanation 
must  await  corroboration  from  similar  studies  in 
different  species." 

In  a  large  and  comprehensive  laboratory  study 
of  Drosophila  melanogaster ,  Houle  (1989)  looked  for 
associations  of  allozyme  heterozygosity  and  size, 
developmental  rate,  and  fluctuating  asymmetry 
(differences  between  measures  on  the  left  and 
right  sides  of  the  fly).  As  is  the  case  for  Scots  pine, 
D.  melanogaster  is  unlikely  to  exhibit  either  exten- 
sive linkage  disequilibrium  or  genotypic  associa- 
tions because  of  its  large  population  size  and  lack 
of  inbreeding.  In  other  words,  any  observed 
associations  would  likely  be  the  result  of  intrinsic 
heterozygote  advantage.  Overall,  Houle  found  no 
significant  correlation  of  heterozygosity  at  eight 
different  loci  for  four  different  traits  in  two  differ- 
ent experiments.  Based  on  these  results  and  a 
review  of  the  literature,  he  concluded  that  "until 
there  is  evidence  that  allozyme  heterosis  occurs  in 
large,  panmictic,  natural  populations,  the  hypothe- 
sis of  functional  overdominance  must  be  regarded 
with  considerable  skepticism." 

Based  on  these  findings  and  the  above  discus- 
sion, we  feel  that  the  use  of  individual  allozyme 
heterozygosity  (or  heterozygosity  at  other  molecu- 
lar marker  loci)  to  select  parents  for  use  in  conser- 
vation must  be  approached  with  extreme  caution. 
Our  results,  and  those  of  others,  indicate  that  in 
populations  without  factors  that  can  cause 
interlocus  correlations,  individuals  with  high 
allozyme  heterozygosity  may  not  be  any  different 
for  fitness-related  traits  than  individuals  with  low 
allozyme  heterozygosity.  Only  when  there  are 
very  small  population  sizes,  extreme  population 
structuring,  or  a  high  or  variable  level  of  inbreed- 
ing is  it  likely  that  a  positive  association  would  be 
present,  and  in  these  cases  it  would  not  be  due  to 
the  intrinsic  advantage  of  heterozygotes.  In  other 
words,  selection  in  these  cases  would  be  for  geno- 
types that  have  an  ephemeral  advantage  generated 
by  these  secondary  factors.  Such  a  breeding  or 
management  program  may  be  temporarily 
effective  in  some  cases  but  it  would  be  difficult  to 
support  it  over  traditional  techniques  in  conser- 
vation genetics  (e.g.,  Hedrick  and  Miller  1992). 


99 


Molecular  and  Adaptive  Differences 
Between  Populations 

From  the  Scots  pine  data  we  presented  on 
differences  between  populations,  it  is  obvious  that 
there  may  be  no  molecular  differences  between 
populations  but  important  adaptive  differences.  In 
such  an  instance,  the  picture  provided  by  molecu- 
lar markers  does  not  reflect  differences  in  traits 
related  to  fitness.  Further,  in  other  species  there 
may  be  large  differences  at  the  molecular  level 
because  of  genetic  drift,  but  if  the  populations  are 
in  similar  environments,  there  may  be  little  signi- 
ficant adaptive  differences.  In  fact,  several  recent 
studies  have  shown  that  population  differentia- 
tions for  molecular  and  morphological  traits  are 
often  not  concordant  (Schwaegerle  et  al.  1986, 
Front  and  Barker  1993,  Podolsky  and  Holtsford 
1995,  Spitze  1993,  Yang  et  al.  1995).  There  is  some 
indication  from  these  studies  that  the  extent  of 
local  differentiation  is  higher  for  quantitative  traits 
than  for  molecular  markers,  but  it  is  not  clear  how 
general  this  observation  is. 

Quantitative  traits  may  diverge  at  a  different 
rate  than  that  for  molecular  variation  (see  discus- 
sion in  Lewontin  [1984]  for  a  perspective  on  the 
basis  on  such  changes).  There  are  a  number  of 
examples  in  which  there  is  rapid  adaptive  genetic 
change  in  response  to  extreme  environmental  con- 
ditions (e.g.,  Bradshaw  1972).  Adaptive  changes  in 
allozyme  variation  may  be  quite  slow  in  compari- 
son, because  any  selective  differences  present  at 
these  loci  are  probably  small.  Frequencies  of  allo- 
zyme alleles  may  change  because  of  non-selective 
forces,  such  as  genetic  drift,  but  this  would  not 
necessarily  be  associated  with  any  adaptive 
changes  at  other  loci.  Differentiation  at  molecular 
variants  that  have  a  high  mutation  rate,  such  as 
microsatellite  loci,  may  be  quite  fast  and  they 
could  differentiate  as  fast  as  adaptive  quantitative 
traits.  However,  the  forces  that  would  cause  any 
differentiation  for  microsatellite  loci  would  be  the 
combination  of  mutation,  genetic  drift,  and  low 
gene  flow  and  not  selection.  Low  gene  flow  would 
allow  even  small  adaptive  differences  to  accumu- 
late and  therefore  there  may  be  some  concordance 
between  the  level  of  differentiation  for  these  types 
of  traits. 

Lessica  and  Allendorf  (1995)  have  suggested 
that  peripheral  populations  may  often  be  of  great 
conservation  and  evolutionary  significance.  For 
example,  if  a  population  has  been  isolated  for  a 
long  time,  then  this  would  allow  time  for  genetic 


differentiation  to  build  up  by  genetic  drift. 
Further,  if  a  population  exists  in  an  ecologically 
marginal  habitat,  then  selection  could  result  in 
adaptive  genetic  differentiation  from  the  rest  of 
the  taxa.  In  fact,  Lessica  and  Allendorf  (1995) 
suggest  that  genetic  drift  and  selection  may  act 
synergistically  to  increase  the  extent  of  genetic 
differentiation  over  that  expected  if  they  acted 
independently  (e.g.,  Cohan  and  Hoffmann  1986). 
Overall,  they  suggest  that  populations  that  are 
peripheral  or  physically  isolated,  have  life  history 
attributes  that  reduce  gene  flow  such  as  limited 
pollen  and  seed  dispersal,  have  short  generation 
times,  and  exist  in  habitats  that  differ  with  respect 
to  soil  type,  climate,  and  competitors,  may  have 
important  genetic  differences  that  should  be 
conserved.  In  addition,  they  suggest  that  such 
populations  may  be  the  source  of  new  adaptations 
(or  even  new  species).  Of  course,  these  suggestions 
are  based  on  generalities  and  some  peripheral  or 
isolated  populations  may  not  have  any  unusual 
genetic  attributes  or  may  in  fact  be  fixed  for  detri- 
mental variants. 

There  have  been  several  different  strategies  for 
identifying  units  for  conservation  purposes.  Per- 
haps the  most  developed  is  the  concept  of  an 
evolutionarily  significant  unit  (ESU)  that  has  been 
developed  to  use  for  protection  of  vertebrates 
under  the  Endangered  Species  Act  (e.g.,  Waples 
1995;  for  other  perspectives,  see  also  Dizon  et  al. 
1992,  Moritz  1994,  Moritz  et  al.  1995,  Vogler  and 
DeSalle  1994).  To  identify  an  ESU,  an  integrated 
approach  is  advocated  by  Waples  (1995)  in  which 
all  available  information  is  taken  into  account. 
This  includes  genetic  information,  such  as  genetic 
distance  determined  between  populations  from 
various  molecular  markers  as  an  indicator  of 
reproductive  isolation,  information  on  other  char- 
acters such  as  morphology,  behavior,  physiology, 
and  life  history  variation,  experimental  data  such 
as  transplants  and  common  garden  information,  as 
well  as  other  information  such  as  geographical 
and  distributional  parameters,  ecological  differ- 
ences, and  historical  information.  Obviously, 
when  all  this  information  is  concordant,  then  the 
answer  is  unambiguous.  When  not  all  of  the 
information  is  consistent,  then  a  careful  evaluation 
of  the  reliability  and  significance  of  the  different 
types  of  information  must  be  undertaken  before  a 
conclusion  is  made.  In  some  such  cases,  a  defini- 
tive conclusion  may  not  be  possible  with  the 
available  data. 


100 


Acknowledgments 

This  research  was  financially  supported  by  the 
Finnish  Research  Council  for  Agriculture  and  For- 
estry (O.S.  and  P.W.H.)  and  the  National  Science 
Foundation  (P.W.H.).  Katri  Karkkainen  helped  in 
collecting  some  of  the  field  data. 

Literature  Cited 

Allison,  A.C.  1964.  Polymorphism  and  natural  selection 
in  human  populations.  Cold  Spring  Harbor  Sympos- 
ium Quantitative  Biology  24:137-149. 

Bongarten,  B.C.,  N.C.  Wheeler,  and  K.S.  Jech.  1985. 
Isozyme  heterozygosity  as  a  selection  criterion  for 
yield  improvement  in  Douglas  fir.  In  P.  Caron,  A.G. 
Corriveau  and  T.J.B.  Boyle,  editors.  Proceedings  of 
the  20th  Meeting  of  the  Canadian  Tree  Improvement 
Association:  New  Ways  in  Forest  Genetics,  pp.  121- 
127.  Canadian  Forestry  Service,  Ottawa,  Canada. 

Bradshaw,  A.D.  1972.  Some  evolutionary  consequences 
of  being  a  plant.  Evolutionary  Biology  5:25-47. 

Bush,  R.M.,  and  P.E.  Smouse.  1991.  The  impact  of  elec- 
trophoretic  genotype  on  life  history  traits  in  Pinus 
taeda .  Evolution  45:481-498. 

Bush,  R.M.,  and  P.E.  Smouse.  1992.  Evidence  for  the 
adaptive  significance  of  allozymes  in  forest  trees. 
New  Forests  6:179-196. 

Charlesworth,  D.  1991.  The  apparent  selection  on  neu- 
tral marker  loci  in  partially  inbreeding  populations. 
Genetical  Research  57:159-175. 

Cohan,  P.M.  and  A. A.  Hoffmann.  1986.  Genetic  di- 
vergence under  uniform  selection.  II.  Different 
responses  to  selection  for  knockdown  resistance  to 
ethanol  among  Drosophila  melanogaster  populations 
and  their  replicate  lines.  Genetics  114:146-163. 

Dizon,  A.E.,  C.  Lockyer,  W.F.  Perrin,  D.P.  DeMaster, 
and  J.  Sisson.  1992.  Rethinking  the  stock  concept:  A 
phylogeographic  approach.  Conservation  Biology 
6:24-36. 

Endler,  J.A.  1986.  Natural  Selection  in  the  Wild.  Prince- 
ton University  Press.  Princeton,  New  Jersey. 

Eronen,  M.,  and  P.  Huttunen.  1993.  Oscillations  of  the 
alpine  and  polar  tree  limits  in  the  Holocene.  Paleo- 
climate  Research  9:29-40. 

Frydenberg,  O.  1963.  Population  studies  of  a  lethal 
mutant  in  Drosophila  melanogaster .  I.  Behavior  in 
populations  with  discrete  generations.  Hereditas 
50:89-116. 

Gaffney,  P.M.,  T.M.  Scott,  R.K.  Koehn,  and  W.J.  Diehl. 
1990.  Interrelationships  of  heterozygosity,  growth 
rate  and  heterozygote  deficiencies  in  the  coot  clam, 
Mulinia  lateralis.  Genetics  124:687-699. 

Hedrick,  P.W.  1985.  Genetics  of  Populations.  Jones  and 
Bartlett,  Boston. 

Hedrick,  P.W.  1986.  Genetic  polymorphism  in  heteroge- 
neous environments:  A  decade  later.  Annual  Review 
Systematics  and  Ecology  17:535-566. 


Hedrick,  P.W.  1990.  Mating  systems  and  evolutionary 
genetics.  In  K.  Wohrmann  and  S.  Jain,  editors.  Popu- 
lation Biology:  Ecological  and  Evolutionary  View- 
points, pp.  83-114.  Springer-Verlag,  New  York. 

Hedrick,  P.W.,  and  P.S.  Miller.  1992.  Conservation 
genetics:  Techniques  and  fundamentals.  Ecological 
Applications  2:30-46. 

Henttonen,  H.,  M.  Kanninen,  M.  Nygren,  and  R.  Ojan- 
suu.  1986.  The  maturation  of  Pinus  sylvestris  seeds  in 
relation  to  temperature  climate  in  northern  Finland. 
Scandinavian  Journal  of  Forestry  Research  1:243-249. 

Houle,  D.  1989.  Allozyme-associated  heterosis  in  Droso- 
phila melanogaster.  Genetics  123:789-801. 

Karhu,  A.,  P.  Hurme,  M.  Karjalainen,  P.  Karvonen,  K. 
Karkkainen,  D.B.  Neale,  and  O.  Savolainen.  1995.  Do 
molecular  markers  reflect  patterns  of  differentiation 
in  adaptive  traits?  Theoretical  and  Applied  Genetics 
(in  press). 

Koehn,  R.K.,  W.J.  Diehl,  and  T.M.  Scott.  1988.  The  differ- 
ential contribution  by  individual  enzymes  of  glycoly- 
sis and  protein  catabolism  to  the  relationship  be- 
tween heterozygosity  and  growth  rate  in  the  coot 
clam  Mulinia  lateralis.  Genetics  118:121-130. 

Ledig,  F.T.,  R.P.  Curies,  and  B.A.  Bonefield.  1983.  The 
relation  of  growth  to  heterozygosity  in  pitch  pine. 
Evolution  37:1227-1238. 

Ledig,  F.T.  1986.  Heterozygosity,  heterosis,  and  fitness 
in  outbreeding  plants.  In  M.  Soule,  editor.  Conserva- 
tion Biology:  The  Science  of  Scarcity  and  Diversity, 
pp.  77-104.  Sinauer  Associates,  Sunderland,  MA. 

Lessica,  P.  and  F.W.  Allendorf.  1995.  When  are  periph- 
eral populations  valuable  for  conservation?  Conser- 
vation Biology  9:753-760. 

Lewontin,  R.C.  1984.  Detecting  population  differences  in 
quantitative  characters  as  opposed  to  gene  frequen- 
cies. American  Naturalist  123:115-124. 

Lewontin,  R.C.  1991.  Twenty-five  years  ago  in  Genetics. 
Electrophoresis  in  the  development  of  evolutionary 
genetics:  Milestone  or  millstone.  Genetics  128:657- 
662. 

Moritz,  C.  1994.  Defining  "evolutionarily  significant 
units"  for  conservation.  Trends  in  Ecology  and 
Evolution  9:373-375. 

Moritz,  C,  S.  Lavery,  and  R.  Slade.  1995.  Using  allele 
frequency  and  phylogeny  to  define  units  for  con- 
servation and  management.  American  Fisheries 
Society  Symposium  17  (in  press). 

Muona,  O.,  and  A.E.  Szmidt.  1985.  A  multilocus  study  of 
natural  populations  of  Pinus  sylvestris.  In  H.R  Gre- 
gorius,  editor.  Population  Genetics  in  Forestry,  pp. 
226-240.  Lecture  Notes  in  Biomathematics  60. 
Springer-Verlag,  Berlin.  Germany. 

Muona,  D.,  and  A.  Harju.  1989.  Effective  population 
sizes,  genetic  variability,  and  mating  system  in 
natural  stands  and  seed  orchards  of  Pinus  sylvestris. 
Silvae  Genetica  38:221-228. 

Nei,  M.  1987.  Molecular  Evolutionary  Genetics.  Colum- 
bia University  Press,  New  York. 


101 


Persson,  B.,  and  E.G.  Stahl.  1990.  Survival  and  yield  of 
Pinus  sylvestris  L.  as  related  to  provenance  transfer 
and  spacing  at  high  altitudes  in  northern  Sweden. 
Scandinavian  Journal  of  Forestry  Research  5:381-395. 

Podolsky,  R.H.  and  T.P.  Holtsford.  1995.  Population 
structure  of  morphological  traits  in  Clarkia  dudleyam . 
I.  Comparison  of  F^p  between  allozymes  and  morph- 
ological traits.  Genetics  140:733-744. 

Pogson,  G.H.,  and  E.  Zouros.  1994.  Allozyme  and  RFLP 
heterozygosities  as  correlates  of  growth  rate  in  the 
scallop  Placopecten  magellanicus:  A  test  of  the  associa- 
tive overdominance  hypothesis.  Genetics  137:221- 
231. 

Prout,  T.,  and  J.S.F.  Barker.  1993.  F  statistics  in  Drosophila 
buzzati:  Selection,  population  size  and  inbreeding. 
Genetics  134:369-375. 

Quattro,  J.M.,  and  R.C.  Vrijenhoek.  1989.  Fitness  differ- 
ences among  remnant  populations  of  the  endangered 
Sonoran  topminnow.  Science  245:976-978. 

Rehfeldt,  G.E.  1979.  Ecotypic  differentiation  in  popula- 
tions of  Pinus  monticola  in  north  Idaho — Myth  or 
reality?  American  Naturalist  114:627-636. 

Savolainen,  O.,  and  P.W.  Hedrick.  1995.  Heterozygosity 
and  fitness:  No  association  in  Scots  pine.  Genetics 
140:755-766. 

Savolainen,  O.,  and  K.  Karkkainen.  1992.  Effect  of  forest 

management  on  gene  pools.  New  Forests  6:329-345. 
Schwaegerle,  K.E.,  K.  Garbut,  and  F.A.  Bazzaz.  1986. 

Differentiation  among  nine  populations  of  Phlox.  I. 

Electrophoretic  and  quantitative  variation.  Evolution 

40:506-517. 


Sheffer,  R.,  P.W.  Hedrick,  W.L.  Minckley,  and  A.L. 
Velasco.  1995.  Fitness  in  the  endangered  Gila  top- 
minnow.  Conservation  Biology  (submitted). 

Spitze,  K.  1993.  Population  structure  in  Daphnia  obtusa: 
^  Quantitative  genetic  and  allozymic  variation.  Genet- 
ics 135:367-374. 

Strauss,  S.H.  1986.  Heterosis  at  allozyme  loci  under 
inbreeding  and  crossbreeding  in  Pinus  attenuata. 
Genetics  113:115-134. 

Strauss,  S.H.,  and  W.J.  Libby.  1987.  Allozyme  heterosis 
in  radiata  pine  is  poorly  explained  by  overdomi- 
nance. American  Naturalist  130:879-890. 

Vogler,  A.P.,  and  R.  DeSalle.  1994.  Diagnosing  units  of 
conservation  management.  Conservation  Biology 
8:354-36. 

Waples,  R.S.  1995.  Evolutionarily  significant  units  and 
the  conservation  of  biological  diversity  under  the 
Endangered  Species  Act.  American  Fisheries  Society 
Symposium  17  (in  press). 

Yang,  R.-C,  F.C.  Yeh,  and  A.D.  Yanchuk.  1995.  Genetic 
structure  of  Pinus  contorta  spp.  latifolia  as  revealed  by 
isozymes  and  quantitative  traits.  Genetics  (in  press). 

Zouros,  E.  1993.  Associative  overdominance:  Evaluating 
the  effects  of  inbreeding  and  linkage  disequilibrium. 
Genetica  89:35^6. 

Zouros,  E.,  and  D.W.  Foltz.  1987.  The  use  of  allelic  iso- 
zyme variation  for  the  study  of  heterosis.  Isozymes 
15:1-59. 


102 


Current  Hybrid  Policy  and  the  Importance  of 
Hybrid  Plants  in  Conservation 


THOMAS  G.  WHITHAMl  and  JOYCE  MASCHINSKI^ 

^Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ  86011 
^The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  P.O.  Box  670,  Flagstaff,  AZ  86002 

Abstract:  While  man-caused  disturbances  and  the  introduction  of  exotics  can  result  in  hybrid- 
ization, which  may  then  lead  to  genetic  assimilation,  natural  hybridization  among  native  spe- 
cies can  have  many  positive  effects  and  should  be  preserved  as  part  of  a  dynamic  ecosystem. 
For  example,  by  conserving  native  hybrid  plants  and  hybrid  zones  we  may  preserve  centers 
of  plant  speciation,  centers  of  biodiversity  for  arthropods  and  fungi,  essential  habitat  for  rare 
arthropods,  superior  nesting  habitat  for  birds,  and  sources  of  economically  important  plants. 
We  review  current  U.S.  hybrid  policies  and  develop  two  examples  of  current  efforts  to 
conserve  hybrid  populations  (hybrid  cliffrose  in  Arizona  and  hybrid  palms  in  Texas).  We  also 
propose  guidelines  for  distinguishing  between  "good"  and  "bad"  hybridization  and  discuss 
an  experimental  approach  for  using  hybridization  to  rescue  rare  species. 


Introduction 

The  controversy  over  the  'goodness'  and  'bad- 
ness' of  hybrids  is  not  new.  At  the  end  of  a  series 
of  benchmark  papers  in  genetics  dealing  with 
hybrids.  Levin  (1979,  p.  300)  concludes: 

There  seems  to  be  a  lingering  notion  that  hy- 
bridization is  bad:  that  gametes  are  wasted, 
hybrids  are  inferior,  and  the  infiltration  of  alien 
genes  will  pollute  an  otherwise  "pure"  gene 
pool  that  must  be  on  some  adaptive  peak 
already.  Wagner  (1970)  refers  to  hybridization 
as  an  evolutionary  mode  producing  something 
abnormal.  However,  Epling  (1947)  suggested 
that  hybridization  and  gene  exchange  may 
actually  be  advantageous  in  some  groups,  and 
others  are  in  accord. 

The  "bad"  view  of  hybrids  seems  to  currently 
prevail.  For  example,  in  the  United  States,  the 
hybrid  policy  advocated  by  O'Brien  and  Mayr 
(1991)  is  to  "discourage  hybridization  between 
species,"  because  hybridization  may  "disintegrate 
the  genetic  organization  of  the  species  in  contact." 
Although  the  examples  presented  in  that  paper 
were  examples  of  hybridizing  animals,  the  same 
logic  has  been  applied  to  plants.  There  are,  how- 
ever, fundamental  differences  between  plants  and 
animals  that  make  animals  poor  role  models  for 
developing  management  policies  for  plants.  For 
example,  the  propensity  of  plants  to  clone  and 
reproduce  asexually  by  diverse  means,  while 
higher  animals  generally  reproduce  only  sexually, 
has  led  to  different  speciation  mechanisms  for 
plants  and  animals  (Grant  1981).  Furthermore,  hy- 
bridization has  long  been  thought  to  be  important 
in  plant  evolution  (e.g.,  Stebbins  1950),  but  has  not 


been  thought  to  be  important  in  animal  evolution 
(e.g.,  Mayr  1963). 

We  believe  that  part  of  the  controversy  over 
the  good  and  bad  aspects  of  hybridization  arises 
from  pooling  two  major  types  of  hybrids.  We  de- 
fine "native"  hybrids  as  those  that  arise  naturally 
among  native  species.  These  hybrids  are  an  integ- 
ral part  of  a  dynamic  ecosystem  and  should  be 
conserved.  Conversely,  we  define  "exotic"  hybrids 
as  those  that  arise  from  the  introduction  of  exotic 
species,  which  then  hybridize  with  native  species 
and/or  the  hybrids  between  native  species  that 
arise  from  man-caused  disturbances.  Exotic  hy- 
brids, like  exotic  species,  pose  ecological  and 
evolutionary  problems  when  they  are  invasive  and 
have  the  potential  to  eliminate  native  species. 
Thus,  from  a  conservation  perspective,  it  is  naive 
to  consider  all  hybrids  as  good  or  bad.  As  we 
judge  species  on  their  own  ecological  and  evolu- 
tionary merits,  so  must  we  judge  hybrids. 

When  viewed  in  this  light,  the  conservation  of 
hybrids  is  much  the  same  as  the  conservation  of 
species.  We  believe  that  the  primary  goals  in  con- 
serving hybrids  should  be: 

1.  To  conserve  the  genetic  diversity  of  species,  in- 
cluding their  natural  hybrids. 

Z  To  conserve  the  evolutionary  potential  of 
species  in  which  native  hybrids  may  play  an 
important  role. 

3.  To  conserve  characteristics  that  have  economic 
value. 

4.  To  conserve  the  interactions  among  parental 
species. 


103 


5.  To  conserve  the  diverse  trophic-level  interac- 
tions that  include  the  dependent  organisms  that 
are  associated  with  species  and  their  natural 
hybrids.  In  the  case  of  plants,  this  would  in- 
clude the  insect  herbivores  and  their  parasites, 
some  of  which  are  unique  to  hybrid  plants. 

With  these  points  and  those  that  follow  in  mind, 
we  believe  that  the  hybrid  policy  of  the  U.S. 
should  be  the  following. 

A  "Better  Hybrid  Policy"  would  recognize  the 
important  role  that  hybridization  has  played  in 
the  ecology  and  evolution  of  plants,  which  in 
turn  has  affected  the  ecology  and  evolution  of  the 
rest  of  the  community.  Just  as  we  discriminate 
between  native  and  exotic  species  in  formulating 
management  policies,  so  should  we  discriminate 
between  native  and  exotic  hybrids  by  conserving 
the  former  and  discouraging  the  latter. 

Current  U.S.  Hybrid  Policy 
and  Two  Examples 
Hybrids  have  no  official  protection  under 
current  U.S.  law.  The  Endangered  Species  Act 
does  not  have  any  specific  statement  endorsing  the 
protection  of  either  plant  or  animal  hybrids.  How- 
ever, the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  has  devel- 
oped a  draft  policy  on  hybrids  or  intercrosses, 
which  has  not  been  given  official  endorsement  as 
of  this  date.  R.  Lohoefener,  Division  of  Endan- 
gered Species  and  Habitat  Conservation,  USFWS, 
Washington,  D.C.,  explained  USFWS  hybrid 
policy  as  follows: 

The  USFWS  recognizes  that  there  may  be  a 
need  to  keep  gene  flow  between  disjunct 
populations,  especially  when  populations  that 
have  been  isolated  due  to  human  activities 
develop  low  levels  of  heterozygosity.  In  addi- 
tion, where  hybrid  individuals  are  morpho- 
logically indistinct  from  pure  species,  hybrids 
may  be  protected  to  facilitate  law  enforcement. 

For  example,  the  Florida  panther  has  an  appear- 
ance similar  to  cats  introduced  from  South  Amer- 
ica. Both  are  protected  to  ease  law  enforcement 
issues. 

According  to  Angela  Brooks,  USFWS-Arizona 
Ecological  Services  Office,  "evaluation  of  a  species 
and  its  potential  hybrids  is  made  on  a  case-by-case 
basis  with  the  major  goal  being  to  protect  the  rare 
species.  Species  with  minor  evidence  of  introgres- 
sion  may  be  protected  particularly  if  there  is  no 
distinct  morphological  or  geographical  separation 
of  the  pure  and  hybrid  forms." 

We  present  two  examples  where  private  and/ 
or  government  agencies  have  recognized  the  need 


to  conserve  hybrids,  have  made  relevant  policy 
changes,  and  are  attempting  to  study  native  hy- 
brid populations. 

Hybrid  Cliffrose  in  Arizona 

The  USFWS  and  other  federal  agencies  often 
fund  studies  to  determine  the  taxonomic  status  of 
a  species  before  any  listing  proposal  is  made.  In 
the  case  of  the  endangered  Arizona  cliffrose, 
Purshia  subintegra  (Kearney)  Henrickson,  the 
Bureau  of  Reclamation  funded  electrophoretic 
studies  (Phillips  et  al.  1988)  and  the  USFWS 
funded  morphometric  (Reichenbacher  1993)  and 
random  amplified  polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD) 
studies  (Mount  and  Logan  1993)  to  determine  the 
taxonomic  status  of  the  pure  rare  species  and  its 
putative  hybrids  with  the  common  Stansbury 
cliffrose,  P.  stansburiana  (Torrey)  Henrickson 
(USFWS  1995).  Given  this  broad  base  of  informa- 
tion, the  USFWS  determined  that  P.  subintegra  can 
usually  be  clearly  differentiated  from  P.  stans- 
buriana. Nevertheless,  variability  in  both  species 
sometimes  makes  it  difficult  to  classify  indi- 
viduals. 

The  Arizona  Cliffrose  Recovery  Flan  (USFWS 
1995)  illustrates  the  current  treatment  of  hybrids. 
The  recovery  plan  first  presents  the  taxonomic 
history  of  the  species,  describes  the  hypothetical 
evolutionary  origin  of  P.  subintegra,  and  suggests 
that  the  hybrid  swarms  are  worthy  of  conserva- 
tion. It  is  hypothesized  that  following  the  last 
glacial  period,  P.  subintegra  was  an  endemic  to 
small  areas  of  uncommon  limestone  soils  in  central 
Arizona.  During  the  wetter  glacial  periods  of  the 
Pleistocene,  the  common  Stansbury  cliffrose,  P. 
stansburiana,  expanded  southward  creating  a  zone 
of  contact  between  the  two  species.  The  two 
species  are  believed  to  have  hybridized  or  intro- 
gressed  during  this  period  and  today  hybrid 
swarms  in  the  Verde  Valley  and  Tonto  Basin  still 
exist.  Although  the  USFWS  (1995,  pp.  12-13) 
considers  the  plants  in  these  introgressing  hybrid 
swarms  to  be  outside  the  definition  of  P.  sub- 
integra, they  recognize  that  the  hybrid  swarms 
"illustrate  the  migratory  and  dynamic  nature  of 
evolving  plant  populations.  Plants  in  the  hybrid 
swarms  are  genetically  and  phenotypically  varia- 
ble, represent  a  piece  of  the  evolutionary  history  of 
Purshia,  and  may  provide  the  key  to  the  future  of 
the  genus  and  species.  For  these  reasons,  conser- 
vation of  these  hybrid  swarms  is  important.  If  the 
Tonto  Basin  and  Verde  Valley  forms  are  described 
as  distinct  taxa  in  the  future,  the  Service  may  con- 
sider providing  protection  under  the  Endangered 


104 


species  Act.  For  those  plants  not  within  Purshia 
subintegra,  other  conservation  strategies  should  be 
pursued." 

Hybrid  Palms  in  Texas 

Lockett  (1991)  describes  the  efforts  to  conserve 
a  naturally  occurring  population  of  hybrid  palms 
{Sabal  minor  (Jacq.)  Pers.  x  S.  mexicana  Mart.)  that  is 
concentrated  on  approximately  90  acres  in  Bra- 
zoria County,  Texas.  The  dwarf  palm,  S.  minor,  co- 
occurs  with  the  hybrid  population  and  is  found 
east  of  this  site  to  the  Atlantic  coast.  The  tall  palm, 
S.  mexicana,  is  found  in  Mexico  and  as  far  north  as 
the  central  coast  of  Texas  (Lockett  and  Read  1990). 
While  it  may  have  once  co-occurred  at  the  hybrid 
site,  the  nearest  S.  mexicana  is  now  60  miles  away 
as  it  has  been  almost  totally  extirpated  from  its 
range  in  Texas  due  to  lumbering  and  use  as  pilings 
in  the  construction  of  wharves. 

These  hybrid  palms,  up  to  9  m  in  height,  are 
the  only  known  hybrids  of  Sabal  species;  they  are 
the  only  naturally  occurring  and  reproducing 
palm  hybrids  in  the  United  States,  and  they  repre- 
sent the  northernmost  natural  population  of  "tall" 
pahns  west  of  S.  palmetto  (Walt.)  Lodd.  ex  Schultes 
&  Schultes  in  Florida  and  east  of  Washingtonia 
filifera  (Linden  ex  Andre)  H.  Wendl.  in  Arizona. 
The  palm  specialist,  Balick  (1988,  p.  30,  cited  in 
Lockett  1991)  argues  that  "since  hybrid  progeny 
can  develop  into  distinct  species  over  time,  it  must 
be  recognized  that  these  are  distinct  taxa  worthy 
of  conservation  efforts."  Lockett  (1991)  and  palm 
specialists  cited  therein  believe  that  this  hybrid 
"could  eventually  stabilize  into  a  new  species, 
perhaps  a  tall  palm  for  the  middle  Gulf  Coast,  a 
region  which  has  no  such  native  palm."  It  is  also 
important  to  note  that  no  molecular  evidence  or 
experimental  breeding  efforts  have  yet  been  com- 
pleted to  clearly  establish  the  hybrid  status  of 
these  palms  (Lockett,  personal  communication), 
but  there  can  be  little  doubt  that  they  are  morpho- 
logically distinct  from  the  putative  parental  spe- 
cies (Lockett  1991). 

At  the  time  of  Lockett's  1991  publication,  the 
43-acre  site  containing  most  of  these  palms  was  up 
for  sale.  Although  Lockett's  initial  efforts  for  pre- 
serving this  hybrid  palm  met  with  great  resistance 
due  to  their  hybrid  status,  the  Texas  Nature  Con- 
servancy became  convinced  of  their  value  and  in 
1994  purchased  23  acres  of  this  site.  This  purchase 
will  be  turned  over  to  USFWS  and  they  in  turn 
will  incorporate  the  site  into  the  newly  formed 
Columbia  Bottomland  National  Wildlife  Refuge. 
This  new  status  will  protect  both  hybrid  plants 


and  a  forest  that  is  important  to  migrant  birds 
coming  across  the  Gulf  (Landon  Lockett,  Aug. 
1995,  personal  communication).  Lockett's  contri- 
butions were  recently  recognized  by  the  Native 
Plant  Society  of  Texas  when  they  gave  him  a 
special  award  for  his  efforts  to  conserve  these 
unique  hybrids  (Ellis  1995). 

It  is  also  interesting  to  note  that  the  Plant 
Committee  of  the  Texas  Organization  for  Endan- 
gered Species  (an  organization  with  no  official 
capacity  made  up  mostly  of  professional  biolo- 
gists) has  changed  its  protection  guidelines  to 
include  hybrid  plants.  They  state  that  "whereas 
hybridization  can  be  viewed  as  a  natural  evolu- 
tionary process — though  it  would  be  expected  to 
be  a  rare  situation — the  TOES  Plant  Committee 
may  recommend  a  hybrid  population  for  con- 
servation protection.  Such  situations  may  be 
considered  for  action,  on  a  case  by  case  basis, 
provided  they  are  recommended  to  the  Plant 
Status  Committee  with  good  background  infor- 
mation and  scientific  documentation"  (TOES 
1993).  Furthermore,  TOES  has  recently  given  the 
hybrid  palms  in  Brazoria  County  a  category  V 
protection  status.  This  is  defined  as  "any  species 
that  lacks  legal  protection  and  at  present  has  either 
low  population  numbers  or  restricted  range  in 
Texas  and  is  not  declining  or  being  restricted  in  its 
range  but  requires  attention  to  insure  that  the 
species  does  not  become  endangered  or  threat- 
ened" (TOES  1994). 

With  these  current  policies  and  examples  in 
mind,  we  now  review  the  negative  and  positive 
aspects  of  hybridization  and  propose  management 
guidelines  for  dealing  with  hybrids  and  rare  spe- 
cies that  hybridize. 

Negative  Aspects  of  Hybridization 

There  are  three  major  concerns  about  hybridi- 
zation of  rare  plants  with  more  common  species. 
(1)  The  genetic  integrity  of  rare  species  will  be 
swamped  or  assimilated  into  widespread  species 
leading  to  a  loss  of  genetic  diversity.  (2)  Hybrid 
individuals  may  suffer  reductions  in  fitness  due  to 
outbreeding  depression  (i.e..  Price  and  Waser 
1979).  (3)  Detecting  hybrids  using  classical  taxo- 
nomic  methodologies  is  difficult  and /or  impos- 
sible. Thus,  hybrids  may  become  problematic  for 
management  when  hybrids  are  not  given  the  same 
protective  status  as  "pure"  species  (Rieseberg 
1991b). 

Some  of  these  concerns  have  recently  been  re- 
examined and  found  to  not  always  hold  true.  For 
example,  Rieseberg  (1995)  dispelled  the  myth  that 


105 


hybrids  are  always  less  fit  than  their  parents  and 
cited  studies  showing  that  Fls  can  exhibit  the 
entire  range  of  fitness  responses.  Fl  hybrids  were 
more  fit  than  both  parental  species  (Langevin  et  al. 
1990),  less  fit  than  either  parent  (Heiser  1947, 
1949),  intermediate  in  fitness  (i.e..  Potts  and  Reid 
1985,  1990)  or  equal  in  fitness  (Levin  and  Schmidt 
1985).  Therefore,  the  automatic  assumption  of  fit- 
ness reduction  with  hybridization  is  not  supported 
by  the  evidence. 

Similarly,  the  management  of  hybrid  popula- 
tions may  not  present  problems  uniquely  different 
to  the  management  of  "pure"  rare  species.  Often 
hybrid  zones  abut  populations  of  rare  species,  as  is 
the  case  with  hybrids  of  Purshia  subintegra  and  P. 
stansburiana  in  the  Verde  Valley  of  Arizona.  Al- 
though ecological  requirements  of  the  hybrids  and 
the  endangered  parent,  P.  subintegra,  may  differ 
slightly,  the  major  threats  to  the  species,  habitat 
destruction  and  livestock  grazing,  apply  to  both 
parent  and  hybrids.  Consequently,  management 
objectives  for  the  two  do  not  differ.  Furthermore, 
as  molecular  genetics  techniques  become  more 
widespread  and  easier  to  use,  problems  in  discrim- 
inating between  hybrids  and  their  parental  species 
will  be  simplified  (e.g.,  Keim  et  al.  1989). 

The  one  concern  about  hybridization  with  rare 
plants  that  has  not  been  resolved  in  our  minds  is 
that  hybridization  may  lead  to  the  loss  of  uniquely 
adapted,  genetically  distinct  plant  populations.  As 
Rieseberg  (1991b)  noted,  "I  can  think  of  no  justifi- 
cation for  exchanging  several  distinct  rare  plant 
species,  each  with  its  own  unique  growth  form 
and  habitat  requirements,  for  a  single  widespread 
compilospecies."  This  argument  for  the  aesthetic 
"value"  of  rare  species — the  right  to  live  for  its 
own  sake — has  however  little  merit  or  appeal  for 
those  who  are  guiding  political  policy.  A  more 
cogent  argument  is  that  ecotypes  and  morpho- 
types  of  rare  species  can  be  lost  through  hybridi- 
zation and  in  the  process  traits  of  economic 
importance,  such  as  chemical  composition,  could 
be  lost  as  well.  Other  potentially  negative  conse- 
quences of  hybridization  include  increased 
mutation  rates,  fixation  of  recessive  alleles,  and 
reduced  developmental  stability  (Grant  1975). 

Is  there  any  way  to  predict  how  serious  a 
problem  hybridization  can  be?  Reproductive  iso- 
lating mechanisms  serve  to  minimize  the  amount 
of  hybridization,  even  in  species  known  to  hybri- 
dize. Recent  chromosomal  studies  with  Helianthus 
annuus  L.  and  H.  petiolaris  Nutt.  have  shown  that 
chromosomal  structural  differences  may  reduce  or 
eliminate  introgression  such  that  species  differ- 


ences can  be  maintained  even  in  the  face  of  exten- 
sive introgression  (Rieseberg  1995).  In  addition,  in 
many  plant  species,  intraspecific  pollen  has  a 
higher  probability  of  success  than  interspecific 
pollen.  For  example,  when  mixed  loads  of  pollen 
were  applied  to  stigmas  of  Iris  fulva  KerGawler 
and  1.  hexagona  Walt.,  in  both  species  intraspecific 
pollen  was  much  more  likely  to  fertilize  ovules 
(Carney  et  al.  1994). 

The  threat  of  assimilation  may  be  particularly 
severe  when  rare  species  hybridize  with  common 
species.  Carney  et  al.  (1994)  and  EUstrand  (person- 
al communication)  suggest  that  when  a  rare 
species  is  in  proximity  to  a  congeneric  species  and 
is  in  the  minority,  there  is  a  high  probability  of 
hybridization.  EUstrand  suggested  eliminating  the 
common  species  to  avoid  genetic  assimilation  in 
cases  where  this  scenario  occurs. 

The  quandary  is  that  hybrids  may  also  serve 
as  centers  of  plant  speciation,  as  was  suggested  by 
Stebbins  (1959).  In  addition,  hybrids  may  comprise 
a  major  proportion  of  the  genetic  diversity  of  a 
rare  species.  Such  is  the  case  with  Cercocarpus 
traskiae  Eastwood,  which  is  restricted  to  five  adult 
trees,  two  hybrids  with  C.  betuloides  var.  blancheae 
C.  Schneider  and  28  pure  seedlings  (Rieseberg 
1991b,  Rieseberg  and  Gerber  1995).  Because  crit- 
ically endangered  species  have  limited  genetic 
diversity  by  definition,  conserving  hybrids  should 
conserve  a  portion  of  the  genes  of  the  rare  species, 
if  they  are  not  lost  through  assimilation. 

Positive  Aspects  of  Hybridization 

Hybridization  in  plants  has  long  been  thought 
to  serve  as  an  important  avenue  of  speciation 
(Stebbins  1950,  1971,  Lewontin  and  Birch  1966, 
Grant  1971).  Estimates  from  these  and  other 
studies  suggest  that  30-80  percent  of  all  plant 
species  arose  from  hybridization  events  (e.g.,  Stace 
1987).  Recent  studies  by  Gallez  and  Gottlieb 
(1982),  Arnold  et  al.  (1991),  Rieseberg  (1991a),  and 
Wendel  et  al.  (1991)  suggest  that  hybrid  swarms 
and  hybrid  zones  can  serve  as  founding  popula- 
tions for  new  species.  This  is  in  part  due  to  the 
presence  of  novel  morphological  characters  in 
hybrids  (Rieseberg  and  EUstrand  1993),  which  may 
serve  as  the  fodder  for  evolution.  Although  the 
role  of  hybridization  in  speciation  events  in  the 
earlier  studies  was  clearly  linked  to  polyploidy, 
later  studies  showed  that  diploid  speciation  may 
also  be  important. 

If  hybrids  zones  are  sites  of  future  speciation 
events,  then  it  seems  important  to  preserve  the 
evolutionary  potential  of  such  lineages.  Failure  to 


106 


protect  centers  of  speciation  is  basically  to  accept 
that  all  meaningful  evolution  has  taken  place 
and/ or  that  sites  of  speciation  are  so  unpredictable 
that  we  cannot  hope  to  protect  them.  If  worldwide 
estimates  of  environmental  change  and  extinction 
are  as  grave  as  many  believe,  then  it  seems  espe- 
cially prudent  to  preserve  genomes  and  sites  that 
have  the  greatest  potential  to  survive  in  a  chang- 
ing environment.  In  the  case  of  hybrid  zones,  it 
seems  clear  that  they  do  have  evolutionary  poten- 
tial and  they  are  in  many  cases  easily  identifiable. 

Sources  of  Economically  Important  Plants 

Naturally  occurring  hybrids  should  also  be 
conserved  for  their  potential  economic  value.  For 
example,  the  native  intersectional  hybrid  Populiis  x 
acuminata  Rydberg  is  planted  widely  as  an  orna- 
mental throughout  the  Great  Plains  of  North 
America  where  its  hardiness  and  attractive  foliage 
make  it  a  superior  street  tree  (Eckenwalder  1984). 

Species  of  hybrid  origin  have  also  been  used 
by  man  to  produce  economically  important  hy- 
brids. The  artificial  hybrid,  Populus  x  canadensis 
Moench  (also  known  as  P.  x  euramericana),  is  used 
extensively  in  forestry  and  is  the  progeny  of  P. 
deltoides  Bartr.  ex  Marsh,  and  P.  nigra  L,  (cited  in 
Smith  and  Sytsma  1990).  Considering  that  P.  nigra 
is  thought  to  be  the  product  of  an  ancient  hybrid- 
ization event  (Smith  and  Sytsma  1990),  and  has 
subsequently  been  used  by  man  to  produce  hy- 
brids of  commercial  importance,  the  conservation 
of  hybrid  lineages  is  important  from  both  evolu- 
tionary and  economic  perspectives  (Whitham  et  al. 
1991).  Beyond  the  few  examples  presented  here, 
the  general  significance  of  hybrids  in  agriculture  is 
illustrated  by  Simmonds's  (1984)  review  of  the 
evolution  and  geographical  origins  of  crop  plants 
of  the  world. 

Centers  of  Biodiversity  and  Unique  Community 
Interactions 

Because  plants  represent  the  basis  of  the  food 
chain  it  seems  likely  that  nearly  any  factor  that 
affects  plants  will  also  have  ripple  effects  on  the 
rest  of  the  community.  Organisms  such  as  insect 
herbivores  and  their  parasites,  fungal  mutualists 
(endophytes  and  mycorrhizae),  and  pathogens 
might  be  likely  candidates  for  ecologically 
responding  to  the  patterns  of  hybridization  in 
plants.  Several  studies  have  now  examined  the 
responses  of  insect  herbivores  to  hybridizing 
plants  and  while  some  have  found  little  or  no 
responses  (e.g.,  Boecklen  and  Spellenberg  1990), 
others  have  shown  strong  responses. 


An  example  of  a  strong  community  response 
to  hybrid  plants  is  illustrated  by  several  studies  of 
naturally  hybridizing  Eucalyptus  in  Australia.  In 
Tasmania,  Whitham  et  al.  (1994)  found  the  hybrid 
zone  between  E.  amygdalina  Labill.  and  £  risdonii 
Hook.  f.  to  be  a  center  of  insect  and  fungal  species 
richness  and  abundance.  Of  40  taxa  examined,  73 
percent  were  significantly  more  abundant  in  the 
hybrid  zone  than  in  pure  zones,  25  percent 
showed  no  significant  differences,  and  2  percent 
were  most  abundant  on  a  pure  host  species.  The 
average  hybrid  tree  supported  53  percent  more 
insect  and  fungal  species,  and  relative  abundances 
averaged  four  times  greater  on  hybrids  than  on 
either  eucalypt  species  growing  in  pure  stands. 
Thus,  while  diverse  taxa  exhibit  all  possible 
responses  to  hybrids,  the  overall  community 
response  is  that  hybrids  accumulate  the  insects 
and  fungi  of  both  parental  species.  This  accumu- 
lation of  species  also  results  in  otherwise  rare 
species  assemblages;  50  percent  of  the  species 
coexisted  only  in  the  hybrid  zone  making  hybrids 
sites  of  unique  species  interactions.  Similar  results 
were  obtained  with  E.  obliqua  L'Herit.  x  E.  baxteri 
(Benth.)  Maiden  et  Blakely  in  Victoria,  and  with  E. 
caliginosa  Blakely  et  McKie  x  E.  stellulata  Sieb.  ex 
DC.  in  New  South  Wales  (Morrow  et  al.  1994).  The 
genetic  basis  of  these  field  studies  has  been  con- 
firmed in  common  garden  plantings  with  known 
crosses  in  which  biodiversity  was  greater  on  hy- 
brids than  on  the  parental  species  (Dungey  et  al. 
1994). 

Because  insect  conservationists  argue  that  it  is 
especially  important  to  save  sites  of  rich  diversity 
(e.g.,  Morris  et  al.  1990),  plant  hybrid  zones,  espe- 
cially those  with  high  biodiversity,  should  receive 
special  consideration. 

Hybrid  Zones  as  Centers  of  Insect  Speciation 

If  plants  speciate  via  hybridization,  then  one 
might  also  expect  their  dependent  organisms  such 
as  insect  herbivores  to  speciate  along  with  their 
host  plants.  Floate  and  Whitham  (1993)  argued 
that  intermediates  resulting  from  hybridizing 
plants  could  act  as  stepping  stones  for  insects  to 
shift  from  one  plant  species  to  another.  In  the 
absence  of  intermediates,  host  shifts  would  have  to 
occur  in  jumps,  whereas  with  hybrid  intermedi- 
ates, insects  could  gradually  adapt  to  the  foreign 
defenses  of  another  species.  Since  host  shifting  has 
been  proposed  as  a  mechanism  that  promotes 
insect  speciation  (e.g..  Bush  1969),  in  examining 
the  importance  of  conserving  hybrid  plants,  we 
must  also  consider  how  they  might  affect  arthro- 


107 


pod  evolution. 

If  hybridization  in  plants  affects  the  ecology 
and  evolution  of  arthropods,  we  should  expect 
specific  associations  of  arthropods  with  hybrid 
plants  and  their  parental  species.  Floate  and  Whit- 
ham  (1995)  found  that  the  distributions  of  some 
arthropods  are  sometimes  so  specific  that  their 
presence  may  rival  traditional  plant  morphological 
traits  in  discriminating  between  specific  classes  of 
hybrids  (i.e.,  Fl  vs.  backcross  hybrids)  and  paren- 
tal plant  species.  For  example,  when  cottonwood 
trees  in  a  hybrid  swarm  {Populus  fremontii  S.  Wats. 
X  P.  angustifolia  James)  were  classified  based  solely 
on  morphological  traits,  and  then  classified  solely 
on  their  arthropod  assemblages,  the  level  of  agree- 
ment between  these  two  methods  was  98  percent. 

An  example  of  how  hybridization  in  cotton - 
woods  has  apparently  affected  insect  evolution  is 
the  life  cycle  evolution  of  the  aphid.  Pemphigus 
betae  Doane  (Moran  and  Whitham  1988).  In  the 
hybrid  zone  where  susceptible  trees  are  common, 
this  aphid  annually  alternates  between  cotton - 
woods  and  herbaceous  plants.  In  the  adjacent 
narrowleaf  zone  where  trees  are  more  resistant 
and  aphid  survival  is  reduced,  P.  betae  has  aban- 
doned cottonwoods  and  remains  almost  solely  on 
its  herbaceous  hosts.  Field  and  lab  experiments 
show  that  the  differences  between  the  simple  and 
complex  life  cycle  is  in  part  genetically  based 
(Moran  and  Whitham  1988,  Moran  1991).  The 
presence  of  such  different  aphid  life  cycles  in  close 
proximity,  i.e.,  a  simple  life  cycle  in  the  narrowleaf 
zone  and  a  complex  life  cycle  in  the  hybrid  zone, 
suggests  that  hybridization  in  plants  can  affect 
insect  evolution  and  perhaps  even  speciation. 

Hybrid  Habitat  for  the  Preservation  of  Rare  Insects 

While  numerous  countries  have  enacted  laws 
to  protect  rare  and  endangered  species,  few  have 
legislation  to  protect  the  habitats  of  those  species. 
As  a  case  in  point,  Australia  currently  protects  rare 
and  endangered  insects,  but  not  their  habitat 
(Greenslade  and  New  1990).  Here  we  argue  that  if 
hybrid  zones  support  rare  species  then  they 
should  be  conserved  as  essential  habitat  for  those 
species.  Although  little  research  has  been  con- 
ducted in  this  area,  three  examples  illustrate  the 
issue.  First,  in  a  hybrid  zone  between  Eucalyptus 
amygdalina  and  E.  risdonii  in  Australia,  5  of  40 
insect  taxa  were  nearly  restricted  to  the  hybrid 
zone.  Considering  that  E.  risdonii  is  threatened  and 
endangered  (Pryor  1981),  the  hybrid  zone  is  small 
(ribbons  less  than  100  m  wide),  and  that  both  are 
near  a  big  city  that  is  expanding,  it  is  important  to 


contemplate  what  would  happen  to  these  insects  if 
either  the  hybrid  zone  were  lost,  or  E.  risdonii  were 
to  go  extinct. 

Second,  in  the  United  States,  the  13  km  hybrid 
zone  between  the  riparian  species,  Populus  fremon- 
tii X  P.  angustifolia,  supports  85  to  100  percent  of 
the  populations  of  both  the  gall  aphid.  Pemphigus 
betae,  (Whitham  1989)  and  the  leaf-feeding  beetle, 
Chrysomela  confluens  Rogers  (Floate  et  al.  1993). 
Considering  that  just  13  km  out  of  a  total  500  km 
of  potential  riparian  habitat  support  such  a  large 
proportion  of  these  insects'  populations,  it  is 
interesting  to  consider  what  would  happen  if  the 
hybrid  zone  were  lost.  The  importance  of  the 
hybrids  to  both  species  is  especially  apparent  in 
low-density  years  when  nearly  100  percent  of  the 
populations  of  both  species  are  confined  to  the 
hybrid  zone  (Whitham  1989,  Wimp  et  al.  unpub- 
lished data).  If  hybrids  provide  superior  habitat 
for  these  organisms  during  hard  times,  then  they 
act  as  a  refugium  and  their  conservation  value 
becomes  especially  important  as  essential  habitat 
for  such  species  (Whitham  et  al.  1991).  Further- 
more, these  hybrid  zones  are  susceptible  to  two 
major  kinds  of  human  development.  First,  cotton- 
wood  hybrid  zones  often  form  at  the  mouths  of 
canyons  (Eckenwalder  1984)  where  dams  are  often 
built  (Whitham,  personal  observation).  Second,  the 
entire  Salt  Lake  Valley  in  Utah  is  threatened  by 
housing  developments  as  Ogden,  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  Provo  expand  to  fill  the  valley  floor  and 
nearby  riparian  flood  plains. 

Third,  Ericson  et  al.  (1993)  noted  that  in 
Scandinavia,  the  smut  Anthracoidea  fischeri  (Karst.) 
Kukk.  is  nearly  restricted  to  hybrid  sedges  and 
suggests  that  it  could  not  persist  in  the  absence  of 
hybrids.  While  we  are  not  advocating  the  conser- 
vation of  disease  organisms,  it  is  important  to 
emphasize  that  if  hybrid  zones  are  essential  for  the 
support  of  such  diverse  taxa,  they  are  also  likely  to 
support  many  beneficial  species.  For  example, 
many  parasites  that  are  used  as  biocontrol  agents 
for  economically  important  pests  forage  where 
their  prey  are  most  abundant.  If  hybrid  zones 
support  high  concentrations  of  herbivores  (i.e., 
prey),  they  are  also  likely  to  support  these  bene- 
ficial insects  (Whitham  et  al.  1991).  Thus,  protect- 
ing hybrid  zones  may  protect  potential  future 
sources  of  biocontrol  agents. 

Hybrids  as  Superior  Avian  Nesting  Habitat 

Riparian  forests  are  recognized  as  contributing 
disproportionately  to  biodiversity,  especially  in 
the  arid  Southwest  and  Great  Plains  where  they 


108 


represent  the  only  available  forests  (e.g.,  references 
in  Finch  and  Ruggiero  1993).  Within  these  forests, 
cottonwoods  are  often  dominant  and  are  reported 
to  contain  the  highest  bird  densities  (Carothers  et 
al.  1974,  Johnson  et  al.  1977,  Strong  and  Bock 
1990).  Recent  studies  by  Martinsen  and  Whitham 
(1994)  suggest  that  Fl  type  hybrid  cottonwoods 
and  the  hybrid  zones  in  general  have  the  highest 
value  as  nesting  habitat  for  birds.  For  example, 
within  the  hybrid  zone,  they  found  twice  as  many 
bird  nests  in  Fl  hybrid  trees  as  they  did  in  either 
parental  type.  Additionally,  comparisons  among 
zones  showed  a  similar  pattern;  bird  nest  densities 
were  significantly  greater  in  the  hybrid  zone  than 
in  adjacent  pure  zones. 

These  studies  demonstrate  that  plant  hybridi- 
zation can  be  important  in  plant  speciation  and 
that  many  economically  important  plants  have 
hybrid  origins.  Hybrid  plants  also  impact  the  rest 
of  the  community  and  may  serve  as  centers  of 
insect  speciation  and  biodiversity.  Furthermore, 
hybrid  zones  may  provide  essential  habitat  for 
rare  arthropods  and  superior  habitat  for  nesting 
birds.  Thus,  there  are  many  valid  reasons  for 
conserving  hybrids. 

Hybrid  Guidelines  and  Their  Use  in 
Species  Recovery 

Since  few  management  decisions  are  clear  cut, 
we  must  first  try  to  identify  what  should  be  con- 
sidered good  and  bad  hybridization  in  the  man- 
agement of  hybrids  and  endangered  species  that 
hybridize  with  other  species.  We  consider  it  bad 
when  natives  hybridize  with  exotic  species,  be- 
cause hybridization  has  the  potential  to  introduce 
truly  foreign  genomes  with  unknown  conse- 
quences. Note  that  we  consider  man-induced 
hybridization  between  native  species  in  the  same 
undesirable  exotic  category.  In  contrast  to  these 
exotic  hybridization  events,  we  consider  good 
hybridization  as  those  that  occur  naturally  among 
native  species. 

The  primary  distinction  between  bad  and 
good  hybridization  is  that  the  latter  is  likely  the 
result  of  long-term  interactions  that  predate 
European  settlement  of  North  America  in  which 
natural  selection  has  contributed  to  the  process. 
For  example,  due  to  the  cloning  nature  of  many 
plants,  hybrid  zones  have  the  potential  to  be  very 
old.  Also,  because  hybridization  has  often  been 
tied  to  periods  of  environmental  disturbance  such 
as  glaciation,  some  current  hybrid  zones  may  date 
back  to  the  Pleistocene  or  farther  (Rattenbury  1962, 
Grant  1971,  Kat  1985).  With  such  hybridizing 


species,  gene  flow  may  have  been  evolutionarily 
favored,  partial  isolating  mechanisms  may  be  in 
place,  and  the  parental  species,  as  well  as  the 
hybrids,  may  be  locally  adapted. 

In  contrast,  hybridization  among  exotics  and 
natives  may  introduce  genomes  from  another 
continent  that  may  or  may  not  be  adapted  to  the 
new  continent,  and  the  relationship  is  so  new  that 
few  isolating  mechanisms  may  be  in  place.  For 
example,  this  may  be  the  case  with  Populus  nigra  in 
Europe.  As  a  result  of  extensive  plantings  of  num- 
erous cultivars  of  P.  x  canadensis  (a  hybrid  between 
the  European  P.  nigra  and  the  North  American  P. 
deltoides ),  which  then  hybridize  with  the  native  P. 
nigra,  the  latter  is  being  displaced  from  its  habitat 
(cited  in  Smith  and  Sytsma  1990).  To  prevent  such 
problems  with  crop  trees,  sterility  should  repre- 
sent a  prerequisite  for  introduction. 

Just  as  it  is  crucial  to  know  the  biology  of 
weed  species  to  make  appropriate  management 
decisions,  it  seems  clear  that  to  differentiate  be- 
tween good  and  bad  hybridization,  we  must  know 
the  biology  and  origins  of  the  hybrids  in  question. 
Since  many  view  hybridization  as  a  rare  event,  the 
attention  it  has  received  has  been  mostly  negative 
(e.g.,  O'Brien  and  Mayr  1991),  and  the  positive 
aspects  have  been  less  advertised.  As  hybridiza- 
tion is  known  to  occur  in  all  major  taxonomic 
groups  and  all  floras  of  the  world  (e.g..  Grant 
1971),  hybridization  can  no  longer  be  considered  a 
rare  event.  For  example,  even  by  1891,  A.  Kerner 
listed  over  1000  interspecific  wild  hybrids  in  the 
European  flora  that  came  from  groups  as  diverse 
as  mosses,  ferns,  horsetails,  conifers,  flowering 
trees,  and  herbaceous  angiosperms  (cited  in  Grant 
1971,  p.  154).  Since  then,  the  list  has  continued  to 
grow.  By  recognizing  that  hybridization  can  be 
common  and  even  desirable,  we  can  then  give  it 
the  research  attention  that  it  deserves  so  that 
appropriate  management  decisions  can  be  made 
on  a  case-by-case  basis. 

Gray  Areas  of  Hybrid  Conservation 

Although  we  have  argued  for  the  conservation 
of  native  hybrids,  we  recognized  that  there  are 
"gray"  areas  between  what  we  consider  native  and 
exotic  hybrids.  As  a  case  in  point,  the  evolution  in 
this  century  of  Tragopogon  mirus  Ownbey  and  T. 
miscellus  Ownbey  (goat's  beard,  Asteraceae)  in 
Washington  and  Idaho  (U.S.A.)  presents  an  inter- 
esting dilemma.  Originally  sterile  Fl  hybrids 
between  species  of  diploid  Tragopogon  introduced 
from  Europe,  they  became  fertile  following  chro- 
mosome doubling  events  (Ownbey  1950).  These 


109 


new  species  have  since  increased  their  distribu- 
tions and  may  be  regionally  more  common  than 
their  parent  species  (Novak  et  al.  1991).  Having 
arisen  from  exotics  after  their  introduction,  are 
these  new  species  native  or  not,  and  how  should 
they  be  conserved?  Although  their  exotic  origins 
confound  the  conservation  issues,  these  examples 
nevertheless  illustrate  how  hybrids  can  result  in 
speciation  and  demonstrate  that  the  origins  of 
species  can  be  very  recent.  The  above  example  is 
not  an  isolated  one;  Reiseberg  (1991b)  cites  three 
examples  of  endemic,  rare  sunflower  species 
{Helianthus  paradoxus  Reiser,  H.  exilis  Gray,  and  H. 
bolanderi  Gray)  arising  from  hybridization  between 
exotic  and  native  species. 

The  Potential  Use  of  Hybridization  in  Species  Recovery 
Despite  potential  problems  that  hybridization 
may  pose,  hybridization  may  be  a  useful  tool  for 
conserving  rare  taxa  (Stebbins  1942),  especially  "in 
captive-breeding  programs  as  a  last-ditch  effort  to 
preserve  the  germplasm  of  a  rare  and  endangered 
taxon"  (Reiseberg  1991b).  For  taxa  that  have  such  a 
low  population  that  few  options  are  available  for 
recovery,  we  recommend  a  two-stage  recovery  ap- 
proach. First,  at  one  site  use  asexual  propagation 
of  remaining  plants  to  build  up  the  population. 
The  danger  in  this  is  that  all  resulting  plants  are 
genetically  the  same  and  similarly  susceptible  to 
disease  and  other  problems  associated  with  mono- 
specific stands.  At  this  site,  we  further  recommend 
that  crosses  of  the  most  dissimilar  phenotypes  be 
performed  to  prevent  inbreeding  depression  and 
to  maintain  maximum  variation. 

Once  stage  one  is  accomplished,  at  another  site 
isolated  from  the  first  to  prevent  gene  flow,  we 
recommend  that  hybridization  be  performed  as  a 
potential  recovery  tool.  When  the  population  of  a 
rare  species  is  so  low  (i.e.,  only  a  few  individuals) 
and  perhaps  suffering  from  inbreeding  depres- 
sion, hybridization  may  be  a  viable  avenue  for 
preserving  a  portion  of  the  genome.  Otherwise  all 
that  remains  are  artificial  means  of  propagation  or 
slower  processes  leading  to  alterations  in  the 
breeding  system.  The  effects  of  hybridization  are 
likely  to  vary  among  species.  Only  through  experi- 
mentation can  we  gain  predictive  power  about  the 
use  of  hybridization  as  a  recovery  tool. 

A  critical  aspect  of  the  recovery  program  is  the 
quantitative  monitoring  of  the  performance  of 
plants  at  both  sites.  Based  upon  genetic  and  phe- 
notypic  identity,  growth,  survival,  reproduction, 
and  other  performance  parameters  of  two  sources 


of  plants,  we  then  have  crucial  information  upon 
which  to  make  informed  recommendations  for 
restoration  and  reintroduction.  This  gives  options 
in  a  rescue  effort  for  which  few  options  remain. 
We  recognize  that  this  is  a  commitment  to  long- 
term  research,  but  with  critically  endangered 
species,  intensive  propagation  is  also  a  long-term 
commitment.  Since  we're  concerned  about  the 
extinction  of  a  species,  we  very  much  need  the 
predictive  power  of  the  experimental  approach  to 
develop  a  viable  conservation  strategy. 

Acknowledgments 

We  thank  Landon  Lockett  for  providing  infor- 
mation on  hybrid  palms.  Financial  support  was 
provided  by  NSF  grant  DEB9408009,  USDA  grant 
95-37302-1801,  and  DOE  grant  94ER61849. 

Literature  Cited 

Arnold,  M.L.,  CM.  Buckner  and  J.J.  Robinson.  1991.  Pol- 
len mediated  introgression  and  hybrid  speciation  in 
Louisiana  irises.  Proceedings  of  the  National  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences,  USA  88:1398-1402. 

Balick,  M.J.  1988.  Natural  hybridization  in  neotropical 
palms.  In  J.  Dransfield,  D.  Johnson  and  H.  Synge, 
editors.  The  Palms  of  the  New  World:  A  Conserva- 
tion Perspective,  pp.  29-30.  lUCN,  Switzerland. 

Boecklen,  W.J.  and  R.  Spellenberg.  1990.  Structure  of 
herbivore  communities  in  two  oak  {Quercus  spp.) 
hybrid  zones.  Oecologia  85:92-100. 

Bush,  G.L.  1969.  Sympatric  host  race  formation  and 
speciation  in  frugivorous  flies  of  the  genus  Rhagoletis 
(Diptera,  Tephritidae).  Evolution  23:237-251. 

Carney,  S.E.,  M.B.  Cruzan  and  M.L.  Arnold.  1994.  Re- 
productive interactions  between  hybridizing  irises: 
Analyses  of  pollen-tube  growth  and  fertilization 
success.  American  Journal  of  Botany  81:1169-1175. 

Carothers,  S.W.,  R.R.  Johnson,  and  S.W.  Aitchison.  1974. 
Population  and  social  organization  of  southwestern 
riparian  birds.  American  Zoologist  14:97-108. 

Dungey,  H.S.,  B.M.  Potts,  T.G.  Whitham  and  P.A. 
Morrow.  1994.  Plant  hybrid  zones  as  centres  of  bio- 
diversity: Evidence  from  Eucalyptus.  In  Conserving 
Biological  Diversity  in  Temperate  Forest  Ecosys- 
tems— Towards  Sustainable  Management,  pp.  67-68. 
(Proceeding  of  the  International  Forest  Biodiversity 
Conference,  Canberra,  4-9  Dec  1994). 

Eckenwalder,  J.E.  1984.  Natural  intersectional  hybridiza- 
tion between  North  American  species  of  Popidiis 
(Salicaceae)  in  sections  Aigeiros  and  Tacamahaca  II. 
Taxonomy.  Canadian  Journal  of  Botany  62:325-335. 

Ellis,  D.J.  1995.  Conservationist's  notebook.  American 
Horticulturist  74(5):5. 

Epling,  C.  1947.  Actual  and  potential  gene  flow  in  natur- 
al populations.  American  Naturalist  81:104-113. 


110 


Ericson,  L.,  J.J.  Burdon  and  A.  Wennstrom.  1993.  Inter- 
specific host  hybrids  and  phalacrid  beetles  impH- 
cated  in  the  local  survival  of  smut  pathogens.  Oikos 
68:393^00. 

Finch,  D.M.  and  L.F.  Ruggiero.  1993.  Wildlife  habitats 
and  biological  diversity  in  the  Rocky  Mountains  and 
northern  Great  Plains.  Natural  Areas  J.  13:191-203. 

Floate,  K.D.,  M.J.C.  Kearsley  and  T.G.  Whitham.  1993. 
Elevated  herbivory  in  plant  hybrid  zones:  Chrysomela 
confliiens,  Populus  and  phenological  sinks.  Ecology 
74:2056-2065 

Floate,  K.D.  and  T.G.  Whitham.  1993.  The  "hybrid 
bridge"  hypothesis:  Host  shifting  via  plant  hybrid 
swarms.  American  Naturalist  141:651-662. 

Floate,  K.D.  and  T.G.  Whitham.  1995.  Insects  as  traits  in 
plant  systematics:  Their  use  in  discriminating  be- 
tween hybrid  cottonwoods.  Canadian  Journal  of 
Botany  73:1-13. 

Gallez,  G.P.  and  L.D.  Gottlieb.  1982.  Genetic  evidence 
for  the  hybrid  origin  of  the  diploid  plant  Stephano- 
meria  diegensis.  Evolution  36:1158-1167. 

Grant,  V.  1971.  Plant  Speciation.  Columbia  University 
Press,  New  York. 

Grant,  V.  1975.  Genetics  of  Flowering  Plants.  Columbia 
University  Press,  New  York. 

Grant,  V.  1981.  Plant  Speciation,  2nd.  ed.  Columbia 
University  Press,  New  York. 

Greenslade,  P.  and  T.R.  New.  1990.  Australia:  Conserva- 
tion of  a  continental  insect  fauna.  In  N.M.  Collins 
and  J.A.  Thomas,  editors.  The  Conservation  of  In- 
sects and  their  Habitats,  pp.  33-70.  Academic  Press, 
London. 

Heiser,  C.C.  1947.  Hybridization  between  the  sunflower 
species  Helianthus  anniius  andH.  petiolaris.  Evolution 
1:249-262. 

Heiser,  C.C.  1949.  Study  in  the  evolution  of  the  sun- 
flower species  Helianthus  anniais  and  H.  bolanderi. 
University  of  California  Publications  in  Botany 
23:157-196. 

Johnson,  R.R.,  L.T.  Haight  and  J.M.  Simpson.  1977.  En- 
dangered species  vs.  endangered  habitats:  A  concept. 
In  R.  R.  Johnson  and  D.  A.  Jones  Jr.  Importance, 
Preservation  and  Management  of  Riparian  Habitat: 
A  Symposium,  pp.  68-79.  USDA.  For.  Serv.  Gen. 
Tech.  Rep.  RM-43. 

Kat,  P.W.  1985.  Historical  evidence  for  fluctuation  in 
levels  of  hybridization.  Evolution  39:1164-1169. 

Keim,  P.,  K.N.  Paige,  T.G.  Whitham  and  K.G.  Lark.  1989. 
Genetic  analysis  of  an  interspecific  hybrid  swarm  of 
Popidus :  Occurrence  of  unidirectional  introgression. 
Genetics  123:557-565. 

Langevin,  S.A.,  K.  Clay  and  J.B.  Grace.  1990.  The  inci- 
dence and  effects  of  hybridization  between  culti- 
vated rice  and  its  related  weed  red  rice  {Oryza  sativa 
L.).  Evolution  44:1000-1008. 

Levin,  D.A.  1979.  Hybridization:  An  evolutionary  per- 
spective. Benchmark  Papers  in  Genetics/ 11 .  Dowden, 
Hutchii\son  &  Ross,  Inc.,  Stroudsburg,  Pennsylvania. 


Levin,  D.A.  and  K.P.  Schmidt.  1985.  Dynamics  of  a 
hybrid  zone  in  Phlox :  An  experimental  demographic 
investigation.  American  Journal  of  Botany  72:1404- 
1409. 

Lewontin,  R.C.  and  L.C.  Birch.  1966.  Hybridization  as  a 
source  of  variation  for  adaptation  to  new  environ- 
ments. Evolution  20:315-336. 

Lockett,  L.  1991.  Native  Texas  palms  north  of  the  lower 
Rio  Grande  Valley:  Recent  discoveries.  Principes 
35:64-71. 

Lockett,  L.  and  R.W.  Read.  1990.  Extension  of  native 

range  of  Sabal  mexicana  (Palmae)  in  Texas  to  include 

Central  Coast.  Sida  14:79-85. 
Martinsen,  G.D.  and  T.G.  Whitham.  1994.  More  birds 

nest  in  hybrid  cottonwoods.  Wilson  Bulletin  106:474- 

481. 

Mayr,  E.  1963.  Populations,  Species,  and  Evolution. 
Belknap  Press,  Cambridge,  Massachusetts. 

Moran,  N.A.  1991.  Phenotype  fixation  and  genotypic 
diversity  in  the  complex  life  cycle  of  the  aphid  Pem- 
phigus betae.  Evolution  45:957-970. 

Moran,  N.A.  and  T.G.  Whitham.  1988.  Evolutionary 
reduction  of  complex  lifecycles:  Loss  of  host- 
alternation  in  Pemphigus  (Homoptera:  Aphididae). 
Evolution  42:717-728. 

Morris,  M.G,  N.M.  Collins,  R.I.  Vane-Wright  and  J. 
Waage.  1990.  The  utilization  and  value  of  non- 
domesticated  insects.  In  N.M.  Collins  and  J.A. 
Thomas,  editors.  The  Conservation  of  Insects  and 
their  Habitats,  pp.  319-347.  Academic  Press,  London. 

Morrow,  P.A.,  T.G.  Whitham,  B.M.  Potts,  P.  Ladiges, 
D.H.  Ashton  and  J.  Williams.  1994.  Gall-fornaing  in- 
sects concentrate  on  hybrid  phenotypes  of  Eucalyptus . 
In  P.W.  Price,  W.J.  Mattson  and  Y.N.  Baranchikov, 
editors.  The  Ecology  and  Evolution  of  Gall-Forming 
Insects,  pp.  121-134.  USDA  Forest  Service,  North 
Central  Forest  Expt.  Station,  GTR  NC-174. 

Mount,  D.W.  and  B.  Logan.  1993.  Genetic  analysis  of 
Purshia  subintegra  and  related  Purshia  populations  by 
RAPD  marker  technique.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  20  pp. 

Novak,  S.J.,  D.E.  Soltis  and  P.S.  Soltis.  1991.  Ownbey's 
Tragopogons:  40  years  later.  American  Journal  of 
Botany  78:1586-1600. 

O'Brien,  S.J.  and  E.  Mayr.  1991.  Bureaucratic  mischief: 
Recognizing  endangered  species  and  subspecies. 
Science  251:1187-1188. 

Ownbey,  M.  1950.  Natural  hybridization  and  amphi- 
ploidy  in  the  genus  Tragopogon .  American  Journal  of 
Botany  37:487-499. 

Phillips,  B.G.,  A.M.  Phillips,  III,  and  D.J.  Howard.  1988. 
Starch  gel  electrophoresis  of  Purshia  subintegra  and 
Purshia  stansburiatia .  U.S.  Bureau  of  Reclamation,  Ari- 
zona Projects  Office,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  31  pp. 

Potts,  B.M.  and  J.B.  Reid.  1985.  Analysis  of  a  hybrid 
swarm  between  Eucalyptus  risdonii  Hook.  f.  and  E. 
amygdalina  Labill.  Australian  Journal  of  Botany 
33:543-562. 


Ill 


Potts,  B.M.  and  J.B.  Reid.  1990.  The  evolutionary  signi- 
ficance of  hybridization  in  Eucalyptus.  Evolution 
44:2152. 

Price,  M.V.  and  N.M.  Waser.  1979.  Pollen  dispersal  and 
optimal  outcrossing  in  Delphinium  nelsoni.  Nature 
(London)  227:294-297. 

Pryor,  L.D.  1981.  Australian  endangered  species:  Euca- 
lypts.  Australian  National  Parks  Wildlife  Service, 
Special  Publication  No.  5. 

Rattenbury,  J.A.  1962.  Cyclic  hybridization  as  a  survival 
mechanism  in  the  New  Zealand  forest  flora.  Evolu- 
tion 16:348-363. 

Reichenbacher,  F.W.  1993.  The  identification  of  Purshia 
subintegra  (Rosaceae).  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Arizona  Ecological  Services  Office,  Phoenix.  Unpub- 
lished report. 

Rieseberg,  L.H.  1991a.  Homoploid  reticulate  evolution 
in  Helianthus  (Asteraceae):  Evidence  from  ribosomal 
genes.  American  Journal  of  Botany  78:1218-1237. 

Rieseberg,  L.H.  1991b.  Hybridization  in  rare  plants: 
Insights  from  case  studies  in  Cercocarpus  and  Helian- 
thus. In  D.A.  Falk  and  K.E.  Holsinger,  editors.  Ge- 
netics and  Conservation  of  Rare  Plants,  pp.  171-181. 
Oxford  University  Press,  New  York. 

Rieseberg,  L.H.  1995.  The  role  of  hybridization  in  evolu- 
tion: Old  wine  in  new  skins.  American  Journal  of 
Botany  82:944-953. 

Rieseberg,  L.H.  and  N.C.  Ellstrand.  1993.  What  can 
morphological  and  molecular  markers  tell  us  about 
plant  hybridization.  Critical  Reviews  in  the  Plant 
Sciences  12:213-241. 

Rieseberg,  L.H.  and  D.  Gerber.  1995.  Hybridization  in 
the  Catalina  Island  mountain  mahogany  ( Cercocarpus 
traskiae):  RAPD  evidence.  Conservation  Biology 
9:199-203. 

Simmonds,  N.W.  1984.  Evolution  of  crop  plants.  Long- 
man, London. 

Smith,  R.L.  and  K.J.  Sytsma.  1990.  Evolution  of  Populus 
nigra  (Sect.  Aigeiros):  Introgressive  hybridization 
and  the  chloroplast  contribution  of  Populus  alba  (Sect. 
Populus).  American  Journal  of  Botany  77:1176-1187. 


Stace,  C.A.  1987.  Hybridization  and  the  plant  species.  In 
K.M.  Urbanska,  editor.  Differentiation  Patterns  in 
Higher  Plants,  pp.  115-127.  Academic  Press,  New 
York. 

Stebbins,  G.L.  1942.  Genetic  approach  to  problems  of 
rare  and  endemic  species.  Madrono  6:241-272. 

Stebbins,  G.L.  1950.  Variation  and  evolution  in  plants. 
Columbia  University  Press,  New  York. 

Stebbins,  G.L.  1959.  The  role  of  hybridization  in  evolu- 
tion. Proceedings  of  the  American  Philosophical 
Society  103:231-251. 

Stebbins,  G.L.  1971.  Chromosomal  evolution  in  higher 
plants.  Edward  Arnold,  London. 

Strong,  T.R.  and  C.E.  Bock.  1990.  Bird  species  distribu- 
tion patterns  in  riparian  habitats  in  southeastern 
Arizona.  Condor  92:866-885. 

TOES  News  and  Notes.  Fall,  1993.  P.O.  Box  12773, 
Austin,  Texas  78711. 

TOES.  1994.  Addendum  1,  November  1994.  P.O.  Box 
12773,  Austin,  Texas  78711. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1995.  Arizona  cliffrose 
{Purshia  subintegra)  recovery  plan.  USDA  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Arizona  Ecological  Services  State 
Office,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  90  pp.  +  appendix. 

Wagner,  W.H.  1970.  Biosystematics  and  evolutionary 
noise.  Taxon  19:146-151. 

Wendel,  J.F.,  J.M.  Stewart  and  J.H.  Rettig.  1991.  Mo- 
lecular evidence  for  homoploid  reticulate  evolution 
among  Australian  species  of  Gossypium.  Evolution 
45:694-711. 

Whitham,  T.G.  1989.  Plant  hybrid  zones  as  sinks  for 
pests.  Science  244:1490-1493. 

Whitham,  T.G.,  P.A.  Morrow  and  B.M.  Potts.  1991. 
Conservation  of  hybrid  plants.  Science  254:779-780. 

Whitham,  T.G.,  P.A.  Morrow  and  B.M.  Potts.  1994.  Plant 
hybrid  zones  as  centers  of  biodiversity:  The  herbiv- 
ore community  of  two  endemic  Tasmanian  euca- 
lypts.  Oecologia  97:481-490. 


112 


Is  Hymenoxys  helenioides  (Rydb.)  Ckll.  a  Species  or  a  Hybrid? 
Morphological  and  Molecular  Evidence 

J.L.  ANDERSON,!  J M.  poRTER^  and  M.K.  DEBACON^ 

lU.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  2015  W.  Deer  Valley  Rd.,  Phoenix,  AZ  85027 
^Rancho  Santa  Ana  Botanic  Garden,  1500  College  Ave.,  Claremont,  CA  91711 

Abstract:  Hymenoxys  helenioides  (Rydb.)  Cockerell  is  a  category  2  candidate  for  federal  listing 
as  a  threatened  or  endangered  species.  It  is  a  poorly  known  taxon,  occurring  in  small,  widely 
scattered  populations  of  20  individuals  or  fewer  in  the  central  Rocky  Mountains  of  Colorado, 
Utah,  Arizona,  and  New  Mexico.  These  small  populations  always  co-occur  with  large  popula- 
tions of  two  related  members  of  the  Heliantheae,  H.  richardsonii  (Hook.)  Cockerell  and  H. 
hoopesii  (Gray)  Bierner  (also  placed  in  the  genera  Diigaldia  and  Helenium).  These  two  species 
only  infrequently  occur  together,  usually  growing  in  different  habitats  and  elevations.  Chro- 
mosome number,  morphological  intermediacy,  pollen  sterility,  and  an  additive  pattern  in 
nuclear  molecular  markers  show  that  H.  helenioides  is  a  largely  sterile  hybrid  of  independent 
origin  at  each  locality.  It  should  be  referred  to  as  H.  xhelenioides.  Because  taxonomic  recogni- 
tion of  this  entity  as  a  species  is  unjustified,  federal  protection  is  unwarranted. 


Introduction 

Skinner  et  al.  (1995)  have  listed  over  200  pos- 
sibly threatened  or  endangered  taxonomic  entities 
in  California  as  obscure  in  either  taxonomy  or  dis- 
tribution and  requiring  further  study  to  determine 
their  true  status  regarding  endangerment  and  the 
need  for  listing.  Hymenoxys  helenioides  (Rydb.) 
Cockerell,  a  category  2  candidate  species  for  feder- 
al listing,  is  an  example  of  just  such  an  obscure, 
rarely  collected,  and  poorly  known  taxonomic 
entity  from  the  central  Rocky  Mountains  (Figure 
1).  The  few  scattered,  small  populations  of  this 
taxon  cover  a  400-mile-wide  range,  from  the 
Sangre  de  Cristo  Mountains  in  south-central 
Colorado  (the  type  locality)  on  the  east  to  the 
Wasatch  Plateau  in  central  Utah  on  the  west  and 
the  Chuska  Mountains  of  northeastern  Arizona 
and  northwestern  New  Mexico  on  the  south 
(Figure  2).  This  study  was  undertaken  to  help 
provide  some  explanation  for  the  highly  dis- 
persed, small  (always  fewer  than  20  individuals) 
populations. 

The  holotype  of  Hymenoxys  helenioides  (Cocker- 
ell 1904),  collected  on  Sangre  de  Cristo  Creek  in 
the  Sangre  de  Cristo  Mountains  of  Costilla  Coun- 
ty, Colorado,  on  July  2, 1900  {Rydberg  and  Vreeland 
5495;  holotype  at  NY,  isotype  at  RM),  was  named 
Picradenia  helenioides  by  Rydberg  (1901).  Rydberg 
described  its  habitat  as  "mountain  valleys  at  an 
altitude  of  2700  m"  (Rydberg  1901).  Hymenoxys 
helenioides  was  only  collected  once  more  in  Colo- 
rado, over  a  hundred  miles  to  the  west,  along 
upper  Cebolla  Creek  between  Lake  City  and 
Cathedral  in  1940  [Penland  1548  COCO)  in  the  San 


Juan  Mountains  of  Hinsdale  County  (Barrell  1969). 

A  collection  made  in  1939  {Peebles  14401  ARIZ) 
from  the  Lukachukai  (Chuska)  Mountains,  Apache 
County,  Arizona,  was  identified  as  Hymenoxys  hel- 
enioides by  Parker  (1960);  however,  it  was  referred 
to  as  H.  lemmonii  (Greene)  Cockerell  in  the  Arizona 
Flora  (Kearney  and  Peebles  1951). 

In  Utah  Hymenoxys  helenioides  was  first  col- 
lected in  1940  on  the  Aquarius  Plateau  {Maguire 
s.n.  UTC),  Garfield  County,  and  then  again  6  years 
later  on  the  Wasatch  Plateau  (Parker  et  al.  6369),  in 
Carbon  County.  Unlike  the  Arizona  and  Colorado 
locations,  H.  helenioides  has  been  collected  at  the 
Utah  localities  by  several  others  up  to  the  present. 

At  the  initiation  of  this  study  in  1987,  the 
Colorado  (and  Arizona)  localities  had  not  been 
rediscovered  despite  intensive  searches  (Johnston 
1979).  To  gain  familiarity  with  Hymenoxys  helen- 
ioides and  its  habitat,  they  were  evaluated  at  a 
known  locality  in  Utah.  On  the  Wasatch  Plateau, 
Sanpete  County,  H.  helenioides  grows  with  shrubby 
cinquefoil  {Potentilla  fruticosa  L.)  on  rocky  hillocks 
among  sedge  meadows  in  the  spruce/fir/aspen 
zone  at  8500  feet.  Hymenoxys  helenioides  is  found  in 
very  low  numbers  in  association  with  two  other 
species  of  the  Heliantheae  that  are  common  at  the 
site,  Hymenoxys  richardsonii  (Hook.)  Rydb.  var. 
floribimda  (Gray)  Parker  and  Hymenoxys  hoopesii 
(Gray)  Bierner.  In  the  field,  the  general  morphol- 
ogy of  H.  helenioides  appears  to  be  intermediate  to 
H.  richardsonii  and  H.  hoopesii.  These  attributes 
(low  numbers  of  individuals  and  morphological 
intermediacy)  are  often  considered  characteristics 
of  a  putative  hybrid.  Furthermore,  the  putative 


113 


Figure  1.  Hymenoxys  helenioides  (Rydb.)  Cockerell. 


114 


Figure  2.  States,  counties,  and  collection  sites  mentioned  in  the  text.  Counties:  a  =  Costilla,  b  =  Hinsdale, 
c  -  San  Juan,  d  =  Apache,  e  =  Garfield,  f  =  Wayne,  g  =  Emery,  h  =  Sevier,  i  =  Sanpete,  j  =  Carbon;  ♦  = 
collection  sites. 


parents,  H.  richardsonii  var.  floribimda  and  H . 
hoopesii,  only  infrequently  grow  together.  The 
former  is  typically  a  mid-elevation  species  of 
pinyon-juniper  v^oodlands  on  arid  sites,  whereas 
the  latter  is  a  higher  elevation  species  that  grows 
on  mesic  sites  in  mountain  meadows  of  the 
spruce/fir/aspen  zone.  The  infrequent  sympatry 
of  the  two  putative  parents  could  explain  the 
sporadic,  but  widespread  distribution  of  H. 
helenioides,  if  it  is  a  hybrid. 

To  relocate  Hymenoxys  helenioides  in  Colorado 
and  Arizona,  the  unusual  co-occurrence  of  H. 
richardsonii  var.  floribunda  and  H.  hoopesii  was  used 
as  a  marker  for  potential  habitat.  Using  this  search 
criteria,  H  helenioides  was  relocated  along  Sangre 
de  Cristo  Creek,  the  type  locality,  at  two  sites 
approximately  10  miles  apart,  referred  to  below  as 
La  Veta  Pass  and  Russell  (Figure  2).  Like  the  Utah 


site,  there  is  a  similar  pattern  of  a  few  H.  helenioides 
individuals  (eight  in  1987  and  four  in  1988  at  La 
Veta  Pass  and  six  in  1987  and  eight  in  1988  at  Rus- 
sell) among  many  H.  richardsonii  var.  floribunda 
and  H.  hoopesii.  The  habitat  is  a  montane  sedge/ 
grass  meadow  on  a  flood  plain  terrace  below 
spruce /fir/ aspen  forest  between  8400-9000  feet. 
The  San  Juan  Mountains  locality  in  Hinsdale 
County  was  rediscovered  along  Mill  Creek,  an 
upper  tributary  of  CeboUa  Creek  (Figure  2),  with 
14  plants  of  H.  helenioides  in  both  1987  and  1988 
sympatric  with  large  populations  of  H.  richardsonii 
and  H.  hoopesii.  The  habitat  is  similar  to  that  along 
Sangre  de  Cristo  Creek,  a  montane  meadow  on  a 
flood  plain  terrace  below  spruce/fir  forest  at 
10,200  feet.  Hymenoxys  helenioides  was  thus  redis- 
covered in  Colorado  for  the  first  time  in  nearly  50 
years. 


115 


The  Arizona  site  of  Hymenoxys  helenioides  was 
similarly  relocated  after  nearly  50  years;  again, 
there  is  the  same  pattern  of  scattered  H.  helenioides 
among  large  numbers  of  the  two  putative  parents. 
The  habitat  here  is  grassy  openings  or  understory 
park  lands  in  ponderosa  pine/Gambel  oak/aspen 
forests  at  8500  feet.  Hymenoxys  helenioides  was  then 
traced  across  the  Chuska  Mountains  to  Washing- 
ton Pass  in  San  Juan  County,  the  first  record  of  H. 
helenioides  from  New  Mexico  (Figure  2). 

The  pattern  of  co-occurrence  of  these  three 
species  together  at  every  site  strengthens  the  puta- 
tive hybrid  hypothesis  for  the  origin  of  Hymenoxys 
helenioides  in  such  widely  separated  sites.  To  ex- 
plore the  hypothesis  that  Hymenoxys  helenioides 
represents  the  hybrid  progeny  of  H.  richardsonii 
and  H.  hoopesii,  we  used  three  lines  of  inquiry: 
morphometric  analyses,  pollen  stainability,  and 
molecular  evidence  for  additive  patterns  of 
nuclear  markers.  Although  the  morphology  of  H. 
helenioides  appears  to  be  intermediate,  it  is  impor- 
tant to  demonstrate  that  statistically.  In  addition,  if 
H.  helenioides  is  a  hybrid,  fertility  levels  may  be 
depressed,  providing  further  support  of  hybridi- 


zation. Finally,  we  sought  molecular  evidence  for 
hybridization  by  looking  at  the  putative  hybrid  for 
additive  patterns  of  nuclear  markers  present  in  the 
putative  parents. 

Methods 

Morphometric  Analysis 

Three  Colorado  populations  (La  Veta,  Russell, 
and  Mill  Creek)  were  sampled  for  morphological 
variation  (Table  1).  An  equal  number  of  individ- 
uals of  all  three  taxa  were  sampled  at  each  locality, 
but  the  number  of  individuals  sampled  was  a 
function  of  the  number  of  the  rarest  taxon  (H. 
helenioides)  present.  The  following  features  were 
recorded  for  the  sampled  individuals  in  the  field: 
plant  height,  number  of  stems,  number  of  capitula, 
involucre  width,  number  of  phyllaries,  number  of 
ray  flowers,  length  of  ray  corolla,  width  of  ray 
corolla,  number  of  lobes  of  cauline  leaves,  length 
of  cauline  leaves,  maximum  width  of  cauline 
leaves,  number  of  lobes  of  basal  leaves,  length  of 
basal  leaves,  maximum  width  of  basal  leaves, 
color  of  ray  corolla,  color  of  disc  corolla,  and 
amount  of  pubescence  on  the  basal  leaves.  All 


Table  1.  Collections  and  localities  of  Hymenoxys  helenioides,  H.  hoopesii,  and  H.  richardsonii  used  in  this 
study.  Vouchers  deposited  at  RSA  unless  otherwise  indicated. 


Locality 

Taxon 

Collector  and  Voucher  Number 

La  Veta  Pass, 

helenioides 

Anderson  88-94^^ 

Sangre  de  Cristo  Creek 

richardsonii 

Anderson  88-105^'^ 

Costilla  Co.,  CO 

hoopesii 

Anderson  88-106^^ 

Russell, 

helenioides 

Anderson  87-116^'!;  88-109^ 

Sangre  de  Cristo  Creek 

richardsonii 

Anderson  88-107'' 

Costilla  Co.,  CO 

hoopesii 

Anderson  88-108^ 

Mill  Creek, 

helenioides 

Anderson  88-95^^ 

(CeboUa  Creek) 

richardsonii 

Anderson  88-97^^ 

Hinsdale  Co.,  CO 

hoopesii 

Anderson  88-96^^ 

Wasatch  Plateau 

helenioides 

Anderson  87-93^  and  Thompson 

Sanpete  Co.,  UT 

richardsonii 

Anderson  87-92^*^  and  Thompson 

hoopesii 

Anderson  87-94^^^  and  Thompson 

Lukachukai  Mts. 

helenioides 

Anderson  87-126^  and  Heil 

(Chuska  Mts.) 

richardsonii 

Anderson  87-132^  and  Heil 

Apache  Co.,  AZ 

hoopesii 

Anderson  87-125^  and  Heil 

back-cross? 

Anderson  87-128^  and  Heil 

Chuska  Mts., 

helenioides 

Anderson  87-147^^  and  Heil 

Washington  Pass 
San  Juan  Co.,  NM 


a  =  DNA  vouchers;  b  =  morphological  vouchers;  c  =  pollination  stainability  vouchers;  d  =  CS. 


116 


measurements  were  made  in  millimeters  and  with 
the  exception  of  plant  height,  were  based  on  an 
average  of  three  measurements  made  on  each 
individual.  The  three  populations  were  pooled  for 
statistical  analysis  (n  =  54). 

Summary  statistics  were  calculated.  Principal 
component  analyses  were  performed  on  both  the 
entire  data  set  (using  the  correlation  matrix)  and 
on  continuously  varying  characters  alone  (using 
the  CO  variance  matrix).  Statistical  analyses  were 
performed  using  Statview  statistical  software  on  a 
Macintosh  840AV. 

Pollen  Stainability 

Pollen  stainability  tests  were  conducted  with 
cotton  blue-lactophenol  dye  on  those  collections 
with  sufficient  pollen.  Five  hundred  pollen  grains 
were  counted  per  specimen  from  Hymenoxys 
helenioides  at  Russell,  Colorado,  and  Arizona  (two 
replicates),  and  H.  hoopesii  and  H.  richardsonii  from 
Utah  (Table  1). 

Restriction  Site  Analysis  of  the  nrDNA  ITS  Region 

Total  DNAs  were  isolated  from  single  indi- 
viduals of  Hymenoxys  helenioides,  H.  hoopesii  and  H. 
richardsonii  from  each  of  the  sampled  populations 
(Table  1)  using  the  modified  CTAB  protocol  of 
Doyle  and  Doyle  (1987).  To  further  purify  the 
DNAs,  each  DNA  pellet  was  re-extracted  a  second 
time  using  the  same  CTAB  protocol.  The  internal 
transcribed  spacer  (ITS)  region  of  nuclear  ribo- 
somal  DNA  (ITSl,  5.8S  subunit,  and  ITS2)  was 
amplified  using  the  protocol  of  Baldwin  (1992), 
using  a  1:1  ratio  of  the  primers  'TTS5"  (5'-GGA 
ACT  AAA  ACT  CGT  AAC  AAG  G-3')  and  'TTS4" 
(5'-TCC  TCC  GCT  TAT  TGA  TAT  GC-3').  PGR 
amplification  followed  Baldwin  (1992)  using  an  MJ 
Research  (Watertown  MA)  thermal  cycler.  Purified 
PGR  products  were  obtained  using  differential 
filtration  in  Millipore  Ultra-Free-MC  microfuge 
tubes  (MilUpore  UFC-3  THKOO).  The  amplified  ITS 
regions  were  initially  digested  with  the  following 
restriction  endonuclease  enzymes:  Ac/I,  Alul,  Bsa]\, 
BsfUI,  Ddel,  Haelll  Hhal  Hin?l  Mbol,  Mspl,  Rsal 
Sau96l  (4-bp  recognition  sites);  BamHl,  Eco RI, 
Kpnl,  Pstl,  and  HmdIII.  The  digested  PGR  products 
were  separated  on  1.4%  agarose  gels  by  electro- 
phoresis, visualized  by  staining  with  ethidium 
bromide,  and  photographed. 

Results 

Morphometric  Analysis 
Summary  statistics  for  the  17  morphological 
characters  are  given  in  Table  2.  Hymenoxys  helen- 


ioides possesses  intermediate  mean  values  (relative 
to  H.  hoopesii  and  H.  richardsonii)  for  all  continu- 
ously varying  characters,  except  cauline  leaf 
length.  Similarly,  all  meristic  measures  from  H. 
helenioides  are  intermediate  relative  to  H.  hoopesii 
and  H.  richardsonii.  However,  the  intermediate 
values  do  not  necessarily  reflect  statistically 
significant  differences  between  the  two  more 
extreme  species,  although  this  is  frequently  the 
case.  Basal  leaf  pubescence,  a  qualitative,  ranked 
character,  was  likewise  intermediate  in  H.  helen- 
ioides. The  unusual  combination  of  corolla  color- 
ation in  H.  helenioides  contains  the  yellow  ray 
corollas  like  H.  richardsonii  and  the  orange  disk 
corollas  like  H.  hoopesii. 

This  general  pattern  of  morphological  inter- 
mediacy  of  Hymenoxys  helenioides ,  relative  to  H. 
hoopesii  diwd  H .  richardsonii ,  is  graphically  dis- 
played in  a  principal  component  analysis  (PGA)  of 
the  morphological  data  (Figure  3).  The  PGA  using 
only  continuously  variable  characters  (not  shown) 
demonstrates  that  most  of  the  variation  in  the  data 
(79.8%)  is  due  to  changes  in  overall  size.  The  first 
principal  component  has  high,  positive  factor 
loadings.  This  scaling  effect  is  a  contrast  between 
the  more  diminutive  H.  richardsonii,  the  intermedi- 
ate H.  helenioides,  and  the  more  robust  H.  hoopesii. 

Pollen  Stainability 
The  results  of  cotton  blue  staining  show  high 
pollen  sterility  in  Hymenoxys  helenioides .  Pollen  fer- 
tility is  only  6.9  percent  in  H.  helenioides  compared 
to  95.4  percent  fertility  in  H.  hoopesii  and  57.6  per- 
cent fertility  in  H.  richardsonii  (Figure  4). 

Restriction  Site  Analysis  of  the 
nrDNA  ITS  Region 
Variable  length  in  restriction  fragments  was 
observed  in  digests  of  BsfUI,  HinPl,  and  Hhal.  In 
addition,  because  of  the  presence  of  an  approxi- 
mately 20  base  indel  in  Hymenoxys  hoopesii,  frag- 
ment length  differences  were  observable  in  several 
other  digestions  (e.g.  Ddel),  even  though  there 
were  differences  in  the  presence  of  restriction  sites. 
Table  3  shows  the  size  of  restriction  fragments  at 
the  five  sampled  localities.  In  all  cases  H.  helen- 
ioides possessed  a  pattern  of  fragments  that  repre- 
sented the  additive  combination  of  H.  richardsonii 
and  H.  hoopesii.  Figure  5  shows  this  additive  pat- 
tern with  HinFl  from  sites  in  Utah,  Colorado,  and 
Arizona  .  The  enzyme  BsfUI  showed  different 
restriction  site  patterns  at  different  localities.  Hy- 
menoxys hoopesii  possesses  a  different  restriction 
site  pattern  at  the  Hinsdale  County  site  compared 


117 


Table  2.  Mean  values  and  standard  errors  (in  parentheses)  of  17  morphological  characters  from  sympatric 
populations  of  Hymenoxys  helenioides,  H.  hoopesii,  and  H.  richardsonii,  sampled  at  three  localities  in  Colo- 
rado. Because  of  low  sample  sizes  the  three  populations  are  pooled. 


M  rirlwfd'innii 

H  helsninids'i 

J-f  hnnnp'iii 

Plant  height  (mm) 

202.6  (5.81) 

388.3  (17.52) 

691.1  (31.23) 

Involucre  width  (mm) 

7.3  (0.24) 

13.4  (0.57) 

24.8  (0.90) 

Ray  corolla  length  (mm) 

7.4  (0.31) 

15.2  (0.71) 

28.8  (0.96) 

Ray  corolla  width  (mm) 

4.2  (0.15) 

5.9  (0.31) 

6.7  (0.37) 

Cauline  leaf  length  (mm) 

52.9  (2.42) 

105.4  (5.82)  ■ 

96.3  (4.04) 

Cauline  leaf  width  (mm) 

1.4  (0.12) 

4.1  (0.25) 

23.1  (1.63) 

Basal  leaf  length  (mm) 

62.7  (2.59) 

130.8  (6.53) 

182.1  (11.00) 

Basal  leaf  width  (mm) 

1.2  (0.09) 

4.1  (0.21) 

14.4  (0.76) 

Number  of  stems 

11.3  (2.27) 

6.5  (1.43) 

5.7  (1.04) 

Number  of  capitula  per  stem 

9.9  (0.93) 

8.3  (1.85) 

6.2  (0.63) 

Number  of  phyllaries 

15.6  (0.16) 

25.8  (0.51) 

44.2  (2.03) 

Number  of  ray  flowers 

7.8  (0.15) 

12.4  (0.23) 

22.8  (0.93) 

Cauline  leaf  lobe  number 

3.7  (0.20) 

3.3  (0.31) 

1.0  (0.00) 

Basal  leaf  lobe  number 

3.7  (0.23) 

2.8  (0.25) 

1.0  (0.00) 

Basal  pubescence^ 

2.8  (0.09) 

2.2  (0.09) 

1.4  (0.12) 

Ray  petal  color^ 

2.0  (0.00) 

2.0  (0.00) 

1.0  (0.00) 

Disc  color^ 

2.0  (0.00) 

1.0  (0.00) 

1.0  (0.00) 

^  1  =  glabrous,  3  =  pubescent;  ^  1 

=  orange,  2  =  yellow;  ^ 

1  =  orange,  2  =  yellow. 

Table  3.  Length  of  nrDNA  ITS  region  restriction  fragments  using  two  endonucleases.  The  fragment 
lengths  are  reported  for  Hymenoxys  richardsonii,  H.  helenioides,  and  H.  hoopesii  from  four  localities.  Only  H. 
helenioides  was  sampled  at  the  San  Juan  County  population.  The  Costilla  County  collection  locality  repre- 
sents La  Veta  Pass. 


Fragment  Length  (bp) 


Enzyme 

Collection  Locality 

H.  richardsonii 

H.  helenioides 

H.  hoopesii 

BstVl 

Sanpete  Co.,  UT 
Apache  Co.,  AZ 
Hinsdale  Co.,  CO 
Costilla  Co.,  CO 
San  Juan  Co.,  NM 

478,  317 
478,  317 
478,  317 
478,  317 

478,  459,  317 
478, 459, 317 
767, 478, 317 
478,  459,  317 
478, 459, 317 

459,  317 
459,  317 
767 

459,  317 

HinFl 

Sanpete  Co.,  UT 
Apache  Co.,  AZ 
Hinsdale  Co.,  CO 
Costilla  Co.,  CO 
San  Juan  Co.,  NM 

421,  289,  263 
421,  289 
421,  289 
421,  289 

421,  289,  263, 146 
421,  289,  263, 146 
421,  289 

421,  289,  263, 146 
421,  289, 263, 146 

289,  263, 146 
289,  263,  146 
421,  289 
289,  263, 146 

118 


O 


H 

< 
U 

a* 


-2 


:5di — 


□ 

□  □ 


□  □  Pl 


-1.5 
3.5- 


.5  0  .5 

PCA  I    (67 . 6% 


1.5 


• 

^  A 
A  A 

— ^  

□ 

□ 

fXI 

□       ^  □ 
□ 

□  □ 

• 

• 

□  □ 

□  □ 

• 

• 

2 

_  1.5 

5  1 


.5- 


H 


H  0 

--5 


-  1 

-1  .5 


-  2- 
-1  .5 


,5  0  .5 

PCA  I    (67 . 6%) 


1.5 


Figure  3.  Principal  component  analysis  ordination  of  17  morphological  characters.  The  upper  figure 
shows  axes  1  and  2,  the  lower  shows  axes  1  and  3.  •  =  H.  helenioides ;  D  =  H.  hoopesii;  A  =  H.  richardsonii. 


119 


Hymenoxys  richardsonii 


Hymenoxys  helenioides 


Hymenoxys  hoopesii 


Figure  4.  Pollen  stainability;  frequency  of  fertile  (white)  and  sterile  (black)  pollen  grains. 


to  the  Costilla  County  locality,  but  H.  helenioides 
still  shows  an  additive  pattern.  Figure  6  shows  this 
pattern  for  BstUl  at  two  sampled  sites  in  Colorado, 

Discussion 

The  suggestion  that  there  exists  another  hy- 
brid taxon  in  Asteraceae  is  consistent  with  the  2242 
cases  of  hybridization  in  the  Asteraceae  reported 
by  Knobloch  (1972).  These  included  43  cases  of 
intergeneric  hybridization.  At  the  beginning  of  this 
study,  Hymenoxys  hoopesii  had  long  been  treated  as 
either  Dugaldia  hoopesii  (Gray)  Rydb.  or  Helenium 
hoopesii  Gray,  which  would  have  made  H.  helen- 
ioides a  putative  intergeneric  hybrid.  It  is  possible 
that  previous  researchers  were  less  prone  to  dis- 
cern intergeneric  hybridization  in  H.  helenioides. 
Hymenoxys  helenioides  had  also  been  named  Du- 
galdia helenioides  (Rydb.)  A.  Nelson  (Nelson  1909), 
an  indication  of  uncertainty  about  its  true  taxo- 
nomic  position.  Bierner  (1994)  recently  transferred 
all  species  of  Dugaldia  to  Hymenoxys  (see  also 
Beaman  et  al.  1962),  making  the  new  combination 


Hymenoxys  hoopesii  (Gray)  Bierner. 

The  co-occurrence  of  Hymenoxys  helenioides 
with  two  species  that  are  infrequently  found 
together,  H.  richardsonii  and  H.  hoopesii,  coupled 
with  the  highly  dispersed  nature  of  populations, 
does  not  by  itself  indicate  that  H.  helenioides  is  a 
hybrid.  First,  for  Hymenoxys  helenioides  to  be  a 
hybrid,  the  putative  parents  must  be  capable  of 
cross  breeding  to  produce  such  an  offspring,  for 
instance  by  having  the  same  base  chromosome 
number.  A  review  of  the  literature  (Keil  et  al.  1988) 
shows  chromosome  counts  of  the  same  base 
number  of  n  =  15  for  both  H.  richardsonii  (Strother 
1966)  and  H.  hoopesii  (Raven  and  Kyhos  1961).  If 
interbreeding  were  to  occur  between  species  of 
Hymenoxys,  it  is  certainly  more  likely  between  two 
species  with  similar  chromosome  numbers.  A 
chromosome  count  of  2n  =  30  for  H.  helenioides, 
based  on  Parker  et  al.  6369  from  Utah  (Speese  and 
Baldwin  1952),  is  consistent  with  the  hypothesis 
that  H.  helenioides  is  a  diploid  cross  between  H. 
richardsonii  and  H.  hoopesii. 


120 


UT     AZ  CO 


HinPI 


123      321  321 


Figure  5.  Line  drawing  representing  restriction  fragment  length  polymorphism  of  nuclear  ribosomal 
DNA  (ITS  region)  from  representative  sites  with  Hymenoxys  richardsonii  (1),  H.  helenioides  (2),  and  H. 
hoopesii  (3).  Localities  are  from  Arizona  (AZ),  La  Veta  Pass,  Colorado  (CO),  and  Utah  (UT).  Digests  of  the 
endonuclease  HinFl  illustrate  the  additive  pattern  of  bands  in  H.  helenioides  at  each  site. 


121 


H  C 


BstUI 

□ 


[=ZI 


12  3      12  3 


Figure  6.  Line  drawing  representing  restriction  fragment  length  polymorphism  of  nuclear  ribosomal 
DNA  (ITS  region)  from  two  Colorado  sites  with  Hymenoxys  richardsonii  (1),  H.  helenioides  (2),  and  H. 
hoopesii  (3),  showing  differences  in  the  presence  of  restriction  sites  of  H.  hoopesii  at  Hinsdale  County  (H) 
and  La  Veta  Pass,  Costilla  County  (C).  Digests  of  the  endonuclease  BstUI  possess  different,  but  additive, 
patterns  of  bands  in  H.  helenioides  at  both  sites. 


122 


The  results  of  the  three  Unes  of  inquiry  re- 
ported above  demonstrated  that  Hymenoxys  helen- 
ioides  possesses  hybrid  characteristics.  The  PCA 
graphs,  as  well  as  the  univariate  statistics,  show 
the  morphological  intermediacy  of  H.  helenioides. 
Moreover,  this  taxon  is  highly  pollen  sterile,  as 
shown  by  the  pollen  stainability.  Finally,  nuclear 
molecular  markers  of  both  putative  parents  are 
additively  found  in  H.  helenioides.  The  distribution 
data,  co-occurrence  with  putative  parents,  morph- 
ological intermediacy,  pollen  sterility,  and  addi- 
tive molecular  markers  together  provide  compel- 
ling evidence  that  H.  helenioides  is  a  hybrid  taxon, 
resulting  from  crosses  between  H.  richardsonii  and 
H.  hoopesii.  The  fact  that  different  additive  patterns 
of  molecular  markers  are  found  in  different  popu- 
lations also  provides  evidence  that  the  hybridiza- 
tion events  at  the  different  sites  are  independent 
events,  arguing  that  H.  helenioides  is  independently 
derived  at  each  of  the  sites  and  arguing  against  the 
suggestion  that  this  is  a  self-perpetuating  diploid 
hybrid  species  of  a  single  origin. 

We  suggest  that  this  entity  be  considered  a 
nothospecies: 

Hymenoxys  xhelenioides  (Rydb.)  Cockerell  pro.  sp. 

et  status  nov. 
Picradenia  helenioides  Rydb.  Bull.  Torrey  Bot.  Club 

28:  21. 1901. 

Hymenoxys  helenioides  Cockerell,  Bull.  Torrey  Bot. 

Club  31:  481. 1904. 
Dugaldia  helenioides  A.  Nelson  in  J.  M.  Coult.  &  A. 

Nelson,  New  Man.  Bot.  Centr.  Rocky  Mts.  562. 

1909.  {Rydberg  &  Vreeland  5495,  On  Sangre  de 

Christo  [sic]  Creek,  Colorado;  holotype  at  NY.) 

The  investigation  of  this  obscure  candidate 
taxon,  Hymenoxys  helenioides,  found  it  to  be  un- 
qualified for  listing  as  endangered  because,  as  a 
hybrid,  it  is  not  a  valid  taxonomic  entity.  There- 
fore, federal  protection  is  unwarranted. 

Although  H.  xhelenioides  is  a  highly  sterile 
hybrid,  it  is  not  necessarily  an  evolutionary  "dead- 
end." Because  some  fertile  pollen  is  present,  back- 
crossing  is  possible,  which  provides  an  avenue  for 
gene  transfer  between  H.  richardsonii  and  H.  hoop- 
esii. Moreover,  with  continued  back-crossing  it  is 
possible  that  H.  xhelenioides  might  eventually  sig- 
nificantly increase  fertility  (Grant  1981). 

Acknowledgments 

The  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  supported 
the  field  work.  Mr.  Robert  Thompson  from  the 
Manti-La  Sal  National  Forest  Supervisor  Office  in 


Price,  Utah  showed  the  first  author  Hymenoxys 
helenioides  in  the  field  in  Utah.  Mr.  Ken  Heil  from 
San  Juan  College,  Farmington,  New  Mexico 
provided  navigation  and  field  assistance  in  the 
Chuska  Mountains.  The  Forbes  Trinchera  Ranch 
provided  access  to  the  Sangre  de  Cristo  Creek  area 
in  Costilla  County,  Colorado.  Dr.  Dieter  Wilken  of 
the  Santa  Barbara  Botanical  Garden  conducted  the 
initial  statistical  tests  of  the  morphological  data 
and  gave  suggestions  on  its  analysis.  Dr.  Donald 
Pinkava  of  Arizona  State  University  provided 
laboratory  materials  and  space  for  the  pollen  stain - 
ability  research  and  reviewed  the  manuscript. 
Rancho  Santa  Ana  Botanic  Garden  provided  the 
same  for  the  molecular  research.  The  herbaria  at 
ARIZ,  ASU,  ATC,  BYU,  COLO,  CS,  RSA,  SJNM, 
and  UTC  were  consulted.  The  drawing  of  Hymen- 
oxys helenioides  was  done  by  Ms.  Kaye  Thome. 

Literature  Cited 

Baldwin,  B.  1992.  Phylogenetic  utility  of  the  internal 
transcribed  spacers  of  nuclear  ribosomal  DNA  in 
plants:  An  example  from  the  Compositae.  Molecular 
Phylogenetics  and  Evolution  1:3-16. 

Barrell,  J.  1969.  Flora  of  the  Gunnison  Basin,  Gunnison, 
Saguache,  and  Hinsdale  Counties,  Colorado.  The 
Natural  Land  Institute,  Rockford,  IL.  494  pp. 

Beaman,  J.H.,  D.C.D.  Dejong,  and  W.P.  Stoutamire. 
1962.  Chromosome  studies  in  the  alpine  and  sub- 
alpine  floras  of  Mexico  and  Guatemala.  American 
Journal  of  Botany  49:41-50. 

Bierner,  M.W.  1994.  Submersion  of  Dugaldia  and  Plum- 
mera  in  Hymenoxys  (Asteraceae:  Heliantheae:  Gail- 
lardiinae).  Sida  16:1-8. 

Cockerell,  T.D.A.  1904.  The  North  American  species  of 
Hymenoxys.  Bulletin  of  the  Torrey  Botanical  Club 
31:481. 

Doyle,  J.J.,  and  J.L.  Doyle.  1987.  A  rapid  DNA  isolation 
procedure  for  small  quantities  of  fresh  leaf  tissue. 
Phytochemical  Bulletin  19:11-15. 

Grant,  V.  1981.  Plant  Speciation,  2nd  ed.  Columbia 
University  Press,  New  York. 

Johnston,  B.  1979.  Hymenoxys  helenioides.  In  Proposed 
and  Recommended  Threatened  and  Endangered 
Plant  Species  of  the  Forest  Service  Rocky  Mountain 
Region,  pp.  116-117A.  USDA  Forest  Service,  Region 
2,  Lakewood,  CO. 

Kearney,  T.H.,  and  R.H.  Peebles.  1951.  Arizona  Flora. 
University  of  California  Press,  Berkeley  and  Los 
Angeles,  CA. 

Keil,  D.J.,  M.A.  Luckow,  and  D.J.  Pinkava.  1988.  Chrom- 
osome studies  in  Asteraceae  from  the  United  States, 
Mexico,  the  West  Indies,  and  South  America.  Amer- 
ican Journal  of  Botany  75:652-668. 

Knobloch,  I.W.  1972.  Intergeneric  hybridization  in  flow- 
ering plants.  Taxon  21:97-103. 


123 


Nelson,  A.  1909.  Dugaldia  helenioides .  In  J.M.  Coulter  and 
A.  Nelson.  New  Manual  of  Botany  of  the  Central 
Rocky  Mountains,  p.  562.  American  Book  Co.,  New 
York. 

Parker,  K.F.  1960.  Two  species  of  Hymenoxys  (Composi- 
tae)  new  for  Arizona.  Leaflets  of  Western  Botany 
9:92-93. 

Raven,  P.H.,  and  D.W.  Kyhos.  1961.  Chromosome 
studies  in  Compositae.  II.  Helenieae.  American 
Journal  of  Botany  48:842-850. 


Rydberg,  P. A.  1901.  Studies  on  the  Rocky  Mountain 

Flora.  IV.  Picradenia  helenioides.  Bulletin  of  the  Torrey 

Botanical  Club  28:21. 
Skinner,  M.K.,  D.P.  Tibor,  R.L.  Bittman,  B.  Ertter,  T.S. 

Ross,  S.  Boyd,  A.C.  Sanders,  J.R.  Shevock,  and  D. 

Wm.  Taylor.  1995.  Research  needs  for  conserving 

California's  rare  plants.  Madrono  42:211-241. 
Speese,  B.M.,  and  J.T.  Baldwin.  1952.  Chromosomes  of 

Hymenoxys.  American  Journal  of  Botany  39:685-688. 
Strother,  J.C.  1966.  Chromosome  numbers  in  Hymenoxys 

(Compositae).  Southwestern  Naturalist  11:223-227. 


124 


Genetics  and  Conservation  Biology:  Assessing  Historical 
Trends  in  the  Demography  of  Populations 

BROOK  G.  MILLIGAN  and  ALLAN  E.  STRAND 
Department  of  Biology,  New  Mexico  State  University,  Las  Cruces  88003 

Abstract:  In  many  ways  the  long-term  demography  of  rare  plant  species  is  particularly 
important  in  determining  the  likelihood  of  their  persistence.  Unfortunately,  demographic 
parameters  such  as  population  size  and  mating  system  generally  fluctuate  from  generation  to 
generation.  As  a  result,  direct  demographic  observations  over  the  short  term  may  not  provide 
a  representative  view^  of  either  the  long-term  situation  or  historical  trends.  Genetic  signatures 
observable  in  DNA  sequences,  how^ever,  depend  on  the  demographic  properties  of  popula- 
tions and  can  be  used  to  infer  long-term  demography.  Comparisons  between  these  long-term 
estimates  and  current  demographic  observations  can  be  useful  for  elucidating  historical 
trends  and  can  therefore  provide  information  essential  to  the  evaluation  and  management  of 
rare  plant  species. 


Introduction 

While  genetic  information  has  played  an  im- 
portant role  in  the  development  of  conservation 
biology  by  focusing  attention  on  the  evolutionary 
properties  and  population  genetics  of  small  popu- 
lations, the  demographic  properties  of  small 
populations  are  often  regarded  as  of  paramount 
importance  in  determining  long-term  viability 
(Lande  1988).  The  importance  of  demographic 
properties  stems  in  part  from  the  fact  that  the  al- 
ternative— a  connection  between  genetic  variation, 
usually  at  marker  loci,  and  long-term  fitness — is 
rather  indirect.  For  example,  several  types  of 
genetic  variation  must  be  distinguished,  each  one 
of  which  may  respond  to  a  small  population  size 
in  different  ways  (Lande  and  Barrowclough  1987, 
Polans  and  Allard  1989).  Neutral  variation  at 
marker  loci  may  require  many  thousands  of  gener- 
ations to  recover  following  an  extended  reduction 
of  population  size,  whereas  recovery  of  variation 
for  quantitative  traits  may  require  only  hundreds 
of  generations.  Empirical  data  also  suggest  no 
direct  connection.  For  example,  one  rare  plant, 
Plantago  cordata,  exhibited  a  great  deal  of  genetic 
variation  for  life  history  and  morphological 
characters  even  while  its  population  size  declined 
steadily  (Meagher  et  al.  1978).  A  quantitative 
genetic  study  of  two  Senecio  populations  that 
differed  in  size  discovered  greater  heritability  for 
numerous  life  history  traits  in  the  smaller  popula- 
tion rather  than  in  the  larger  one,  as  might  have 
been  expected  (Widen  and  Andersson  1993).  In  an 
experimental  setting,  neither  the  population 
growth  rate  nor  size  was  related  to  initial  marker 
locus  variability  in  the  mosquitofish  (Leberg  1993). 
It  is  also  not  necessarily  the  case  that  increased  ho- 


mozygosity results  in  decreased  fitness,  although 
many  examples  of  the  phenomenon  exist.  For 
example,  no  correlation  between  heterozygosity 
and  fitness  was  found  in  forked  fungus  beetles 
(Whitlock  1993),  brook  trout  (Hutchings  and 
Ferguson  1992),  or  a  tropical  palm  (Eguiarte  et  al. 
1992).  Thus,  the  direct  importance  of  genetic 
variation  to  conservation  biology  has  not  been 
universally  supported. 

In  contrast,  the  direct  events  leading  to  reduc- 
tion in  population  size  clearly  involve  demograph- 
ic components.  As  a  result,  the  demographic  prop- 
erties of  small  populations  are  of  prime  interest 
(Bradshaw  and  Doody  1978,  Goodman  1987b, 
Lande  1988,  PavUk  and  Barbour  1988,  Thomas 
1990),  and  detailed  information  on  the  demogra- 
phy of  a  species  may  give  the  most  relevant  in- 
formation for  conservation  biology.  For  example, 
two  important  demographic  parameters,  the  mean 
and  variance  of  population  growth  rate,  largely 
determine  the  time  until  extinction  for  populations 
(Goodman  1987a),  and  have  been  used  as  the  basis 
for  analyzing  the  viability  of  mammalian  popula- 
tions (Belovsky  1987).  Much  more  detailed  demo- 
graphic information  encompassed  in  matrix  pro- 
jections of  stage  classes  has  been  used  in  analyzing 
the  viability  of  several  plant  species  (Menges  1990, 
1992). 

Because  demographic  properties  of  popula- 
tions change  with  time,  the  most  useful  informa- 
*  tion  derives  from  long-term  studies  that  quantify 
the  long-term  trends  relevant  to  population  per- 
sistence. Unfortunately,  such  studies  often  require 
more  time  than  is  currently  available,  and  always 
require  major  investments  of  labor  and  money.  As 
a  result,  the  most  useful  information — direct  mea- 


125 


surements  of  demographic  properties  over  long 
spans  of  time — may  not  be  forthcoming  by  using 
traditional  demographic  approaches.  Neverthe- 
less, an  understanding  of  the  long-term  demo- 
graphic patterns  is  likely  to  be  most  useful  as  an 
indicator  of  future  prospects  for  a  rare  species  of 
either  plant  or  animal.  It  is,  therefore,  important  to 
consider  alternative  means  of  obtaining  long-term 
demographic  information  on  species  of  conserva- 
tion interest.  A  coupling  of  new  genetic  techniques 
that  enable  estimation  of  long-term  demographic 
properties  of  populations  with  direct  observation 
of  demographic  properties  over  the  shorter 
periods  accessible  today  is  most  likely  to  provide 
the  necessary  information  (Milligan  et  al.  1994). 

Genetic  Markers  and  Demographic 
Properties  of  Populations 

The  demographic  history  of  a  population  is 
reflected  in  its  genetic  composition;  indeed,  this  is 
the  basis  for  the  development  of  retrospective 
population  genetics  (Ewens  1990).  It  should  be 
possible,  therefore,  to  extract  demographic  infor- 
mation of  use  in  conservation  biology  from  studies 
of  the  genetic  composition  of  a  population  or  set  of 
populations.  For  this  purpose,  the  most  useful 
genetic  markers  are  those  that  provide  a  means  of 


classifying  individuals  into  nominal  genotypic 
categories  that  themselves  may  be  grouped  ac- 
cording to  degree  of  relationship.  These  markers 
include  DNA  sequences  and  restriction  site  maps. 

The  importance  of  markers  such  as  DNA  se- 
quences is  that  the  relationships  among  genotypic 
categories  contain  a  record  of  the  history  of  those 
categories  (Figure  1).  The  hierarchical  pattern  of 
similarity  among  genotypic  classes — for  example, 
in  number  of  shared  nucleotides — reflects  the 
genealogical  similarity  of  those  classes;  those  hap- 
lotypes  that  share  a  larger  number  of  nucleotides 
have  a  more  recent  common  ancestor  than  those 
that  share  a  smaller  number.  While  this,  of  course, 
is  the  basis  for  an  explosion  of  interest  in  such 
markers  for  phylogenetic  reconstruction  in  the 
field  of  systematics,  it  is  equally  applicable  to 
samples  of  gene  sequences  taken  from  within  a 
population  or  set  of  populations.  One  can  deter- 
mine which  gene  sequences  are  most  closely 
related  to  each  other  and  when  the  most  recent 
common  ancestor  of  different  sequences  occurred. 
This  genealogy  of  genes  is  distinct  from  the 
genealogy  of  the  individuals  carrying  the  genes. 

First  formalized  in  the  population  genetics 
literature  by  Kingman  (1982),  the  study  of  gene 
genealogies  has  led  to  conceptual  clarification  of 


0 


Figure  1.  Genealogical  relationships  among  a  sample  of  five  DNA  sequences.  The  structure  of  this 
genealogy,  represented  by  the  pattern  of  common  ancestry  and  the  times  to  common  ancestry  given  on 
the  right,  is  determined  by  such  demographic  properties  as  effective  population  size,  mating  system,  and 
migration  rates. 


126 


many  classical  results  (Ewens  1990,  Hudson  1990), 
and  will  lead  to  new  progress  in  the  field  of  con- 
servation genetics.  Fundamentally,  the  clarification 
comes  about  because  of  the  separation  of  factors 
affecting  the  genetic  composition  of  a  sample. 
Specifically,  the  genealogical  approach  makes  it 
clear  that  genetic  processes  like  mutation  that  lead 
to  the  origin  of  new  genotypes  are  distinct  and 
independent  of  demographic  factors,  including 
population  size,  mating,  and  migration,  that 
influence  the  structure  of  the  genealogy  relating 
the  sampled  genes  to  each  other.  It  is  usually  these 
latter  factors  that  are  of  prime  interest  in  conser- 
vation biology. 

As  an  example,  consider  how  population  size 
influences  the  structure  of  a  genealogy  of  genes  in 
terms  of  the  times  to  common  ancestry.  In  a  large 
population  a  pair  of  genes  is  likely  to  share  a 
common  ancestor  in  the  distant  past,  whereas  in  a 
small  population  a  pair  of  genes  is  likely  to  share 
one  more  recently  (Figure  2).  This  is  simply  a  con- 
sequence of  the  number  of  gene  copies  available 
each  generation  from  which  to  derive  copies  in  the 
subsequent  one,  and  is  only  a  restatement  of  the 


effects  of  genetic  drift.  However,  by  focusing  on 
time  to  common  ancestry  one  can  recognize  that 
the  number  of  mutational  events  that  intervene 
between  that  time  and  the  present  has  no  bearing 
on  the  relationship  between  population  size  and 
time  to  common  ancestry.  It  is  important  to  note, 
however,  that  the  mutation  events  allow  one  to 
reconstruct  the  topological  relationships  among 
genes,  and  in  turn  the  time  to  common  ancestry, 
from  which  population  size  may  be  estimated. 
Therein  lies  the  utility  of  genetic  markers  for 
which  genealogical  relationships  among  genotypic 
categories  can  be  determined.  For  such  markers 
these  two  factors — the  influence  of  genetic  factors 
such  as  mutation  and  the  influence  of  demograph- 
ic factors  such  as  population  size — are  indepen- 
dent of  each  other. 

The  major  advantage  of  genetic  markers  that 
provide  genealogical  information  is  that  because 
the  role  of  genetic  and  demographic  processes  are 
so  clearly  separable,  such  markers  may  be  used  to 
estimate  parameters  governing  the  long-term  dem- 
ographic processes  of  interest  to  a  conservation 
biologist. 


Figure  2.  Possible  genealogical  relationships  among  a  set  of  five  DNA  sequences  sampled  from  popula- 
tions of  different  sizes,  one  (A)  of  which  is  one  half  as  large  as  the  other  (B).  Note  that  the  time  unit  is  the 
same  for  the  two  genealogies. 


127 


Comparing  Long-Term  Genetic  and 
Short-Term  Demographic  Estimates 

Genealogical  estimates  of  demographic  pa- 
rameters such  as  population  size  or  mating  system 
are  inherently  based  on  specific  models  of  the 
population  of  interest.  Generally,  the  models  that 
are  currently  available  assume  at  least  relatively 
constant  demographic  conditions  over  long 
periods  of  time.  As  a  result,  when  used  to  estimate 
demographic  parameters,  these  same  models 
provide  long-term  averages.  That  is,  they  quantify 
the  properties  of  an  "ideal"  population  exhibiting 
constant  demography  that  is  equivalent  to  the 
"real"  population  from  which  DNA  sequences 
were  sampled.  Because  of  the  temporal  lag  in  the 
historical  information  contained  within  the  geneal- 
ogy of  DNA  sequences,  the  estimates  truly  depict 
long-term  conditions.  In  contrast,  direct  observa- 
tions of  current  demographic  properties  at  best 
provide  an  indication  of  the  short-term  average 
and  the  stochasticity  prevailing  at  the  present. 

This  mismatch  in  temporal  scale  is,  however,  a 
basis  for  determining  long-term  trends  in  demo- 
graphic conditions.  A  comparison  between  the 
long-term  average  obtained  from  genealogical 
analyses  and  the  short-term  average  obtained  from 
direct  demographic  observations  provides  an 
assessment  of  how  the  current  situation  deviates 
from  the  long-term  one.  Hence,  an  indication  of 
long-term  trends  is  available. 

The  following  sections  outline  methods  in- 
volving genealogical  analysis  of  DNA  sequences 
sampled  from  natural  plant  populations  for  the 
purpose  of  quantifying  several  important  demo- 
graphic parameters:  effective  population  size, 
mating  system,  and  migration  rate.  Because  all  are 
relevant  for  conservation  biology  in  terms  of 
assessing  population  viability,  it  is  hoped  that  this 
paper  will  serve  not  only  to  illustrate  the  impor- 
tance of  coupling  genetic  and  demographic 
studies,  but  also  to  underscore  the  unique  ability 
of  population  genetics  to  provide  the  critical  long- 
term  information  needed  in  conservation  biology. 

Effective  Population  Size 

Effective  population  size,  a  concept  first  intro- 
duced by  Wright  (1931),  has  long  been  recognized 
as  a  general  indicator  of  the  rate  at  which  genetic 
drift  alters  the  genetic  composition  of  a  popula- 
tion. Defined  as  the  size  of  an  ideal  population  that 
behaves  genetically  in  the  same  way  as  the  real 
population  of  interest,  a  number  of  effective  sizes 
can  be  recognized  depending  on  which  property  is 


equivalent;  these  include  the  variance  effective 
size,  the  inbreeding  effective  size,  and  the  eigen- 
value effective  size  (Kimura  and  Crow  1963, 
Ewens  1979,  Crow  and  Denniston  1988).  Despite 
this  diversity  of  effective  sizes,  we  restrict  our 
consideration  to  the  inbreeding  effective  size. 
Because  this  quantity  reflects  the  rate  at  which 
identity  by  descent  of  genes  within  an  individual 
increases  within  a  population,  it  may  be  most 
useful  in  the  context  of  conservation  biology 
where  inbreeding  and  inbreeding  depression  are 
concerns.  Although  they  do  not  distinguish 
between  the  various  types.  Mace  and  Lande  (1991) 
include  effective  size  as  a  criterion  for  establishing 
official  categories  of  endangerment. 

Three  genealogical  approaches  to  the  estima- 
tion of  inbreeding  effective  population  size  have 
been  developed  (Strobeck  1983,  Felsenstein  1992, 
Kuhner  et  al.  1995).  Although  the  methods  differ 
in  detail,  all  rely  on  the  observation  that  the  proba- 
bility of  a  pair  of  genes  in  one  generation  being 
derived  from  a  single  gene  in  the  previous  genera- 
tion depends  only  on  the  current  population  size 
(in  the  absence  of  selection,  migration,  and  so 
forth).  This  observation  implies  a  distribution  of 
times  to  common  ancestry  for  pairs  of  genes,  or  by 
extension  a  distribution  for  times  on  an  entire  gen- 
ealogy of  many  genes.  Because  such  a  genealogy 
(including  times  to  common  ancestry)  can  be 
inferred  from  DNA  sequence  data  for  a  set  of  ge- 
netic markers  using  the  wide  array  of  techniques 
for  phylogenetic  reconstruction,  and  because  the 
distribution  of  times  to  common  ancestry  depends 
on  the  effective  population  size,  one  can  choose 
the  value  of  effective  population  size  that  provides 
the  best  match  between  the  predicted  times  to 
common  ancestry,  and  hence  degree  of  divergence 
between  sequences,  and  the  observations. 

In  many  instances,  long-term  measures  of  ef- 
fective population  size  would  be  extremely  useful. 
For  example,  if  a  population  has  always  occurred 
in  small  numbers,  it  might  be  adapted  to  its  rare 
condition,  whereas  if  a  population  has  only 
recently  become  small,  the  effects  of  inbreeding 
may  be  catastrophic.  Also,  the  long-term  degree  of 
variability  in  population  size  may  be  an  important 
predictor  of  extinction  probability  (Goodman 
1987b).  Comparison  of  long-  and  short-term  meas- 
ures of  effective  size  may  provide  an  indication  of 
historical  trends. 

Mating  System  Estimation 
Genetic  transmission  from  one  generation  to 
the  next,  mediated  by  the  pattern  of  matings 


128 


linking  generations,  is  a  major  focal  point  in  plant 
conservation  biology  because  of  its  dual  role  in 
determining  the  genetic  composition  of  a  popula- 
tion and  in  indicating  the  dependence  of  reproduc- 
tive success  on  pollen  vectors,  characteristics  that 
may  determine  long-term  persistence.  In  plants, 
the  pattern  of  mating  varies  considerably  and 
includes  regular  systems  of  inbreeding,  often  with 
extensive  self-fertilization,  breeding  among  rela- 
tives within  small  neighborhoods,  and  negative 
assortative  mating  maintained  by  incompatibility 
systems  (Clegg  1980);  plant  populations  rarely 
exhibit  random  mating  (Fryxell  1957,  Willson 
1984).  Characterization  of  mating  systems  is, 
therefore,  of  prime  concern  in  the  study  of  plant 
conservation  biology. 

Quantification  of  plant  mating  systems  often 
involves  a  mixed  mating  model  in  which  matings 
consist  of  either  selfing  or  outcrossing  to  a  com- 
mon pollen  pool  (Brown  1989,  Clegg  1980,  Ritland 
1984).  The  degree  of  selfing  estimated  by  this 
model  positions  a  population  along  a  continuum 
between  complete  selfing  and  random  mating  and 
provides  a  useful  summary  of  many  mating 
systems. 

Estimation  of  the  degree  of  selfing  has  tradi- 
tionally been  based  on  surveys  of  allozyme  segre- 
gation in  sets  of  progeny  arrays  collected  from  a 
population  (Figure  3)  (Brown  and  Allard  1970, 
Brown  et  al.  1975,  Brown  et  al.  1986,  Brown  et  al. 
1989,  Holtsford  and  Ellstrand  1990,  Warwick 
1989).  This  approach  offers  the  advantages  of 
being  experimentally  tractable  and  efficient  at 
quantifying  mating  systems  for  a  single  genera- 
tion. However,  because  of  the  numerous  demo- 
graphic and  ecological  factors  known  to  affect  the 
mating  process  (Brown  1989,  Brown  et  al.  1989, 
Lloyd  1980,  Willson  1984),  single-generation 
estimates  may  not  be  useful  for  studies  concerned 
with  the  long-term  evolution  of  mating  systems. 
For  example,  single-generation  estimates  of  selfing 
rate  made  over  multiple  years  demonstrate  tem- 
poral variation  (Vasek  and  Harding  1976,  Hamrick 
1982,  Holtsford  and  Ellstrand  1990,  Dole  and 
Ritland  1993).  As  a  result,  this  approach  is  limited 
to  providing  a  short-term  measure  of  the  mating 
system. 

A  long-term  estimate  of  the  mating  system  can 
be  made  by  taking  advantage  of  the  fact  that  the 
outcrossing  rate  within  a  population  influences  the 
times  to  common  ancestry  of  alleles  within  versus 
among  individuals.  In  the  case  of  a  population 
with  a  high  degree  of  selfing,  the  times  to  common 
ancestry  of  two  alleles  sampled  from  within  an 


individual  will,  on  average,  be  shorter  than  that 
between  two  alleles  sampled  among  individuals. 
In  contrast,  under  random  mating  the  times  to 
common  ancestry  are  the  same  for  alleles  sampled 
within  or  among  individuals.  Figure  4  illustrates 
these  points  by  following  the  fate  of  pairs  of  alleles 
through  one  generation  of  either  selfing  or  random 
mating. 

Because  the  time  to  common  ancestry  may  be 
estimated  from  DNA  sequence  information,  the 
contrast  between  sequences  sampled  in  these  two 
ways  provides  estimates  of  long-term  mating 
system  parameters  within  the  context  of  the 
mixed-mating  model  (Milligan  1996).  Figure  5 
contrasts  the  genealogical  estimator  of  mating 
system  with  the  only  other  long-term  estimator  of 
mating  system,  one  based  on  the  degree  of  homo- 
zygosity (F)  within  a  population.  Over  a  wide 
array  of  population  sizes  and  over  the  fuU  range  of 
selfing  rates,  the  genealogical  estimator  is  essen- 
tially unbiased,  whereas  the  alternative  based  on 
homozygosity  is  severely  and  variably  biased. 

The  two  general  approaches  to  estimating 
mating  systems  outlined  above  attempt  to  answer 
separate  questions:  the  first  focuses  on  short-term 
measures,  whereas  the  second  focuses  on  long- 
term  measures.  A  comparison  between  them, 
however,  can  provide  an  indication  of  whether  or 
not  the  current  mating  system  reflects  the  long- 
term  average.  Major  discrepancies  may  signal 
situations  placing  populations  at  risk  of  extinction, 
or  at  least  of  potential  decline.  For  example,  if  a 
long-term  estimator  indicates  that  a  population 
has  historically  outcrossed,  but  a  short-term  esti- 
mator based  on  recent  generations  indicates  a  high 
level  of  selfing,  the  total  reproductive  output  of 
the  population  may  be  declining  due  to  pollen 
limitation.  Therefore,  both  types  of  estimators 
should  be  useful  to  conservation  biologists  in 
estimating  the  risk  to  rare  taxa  due  to  mating 
system  dynamics. 

Genetic  Structure  and  Gene  Flow 

Population  structure  is  a  basic  element  of  the 
biology  of  most,  if  not  all,  species  because  dis- 
persal limitations  result  in  some  degree  of  both 
genetic  and  demographic  isolation  among  discrete 
populations  (Levin  and  Kerster  1974).  This  isola- 
tion has  genetic  (Ellstrand  1992,  Ellstrand  and 
Elam  1993)  and  demographic  consequences  that 
may  be  of  concern  for  conservation  biologists.  For 
example,  migration  among  populations  may 
increase  the  viability  of  rare  species  by  reducing 
the  threat  of  demographic  stochasticity  within  a 


129 


Maternal 
Genotype 

f  ^ 
AA 


Selfing 


Progeny 
Genotype 


f 

AA 

V 

J 

f 

Aa 

J 

r 

aa 

V 

J 

p=1.0 


p=0.0 


p=0.0 


AA 


Pollen  Pool 

p(A)=0.2 


f 

^ 

AA 

V 

J 

f 

Aa 

J 

aa 

I. 

J 

p=0.2 


p=0.8 


p=0.0 


Random  Mating 


Figure  3.  Transmission  of  genes  from  parents  to  progeny  under  the  two  components  of  mixed  mating, 
selfing  and  random  mating.  Hie  progeny  genoytype  distributions  derived  from  a  homozygous  female 
parent  and  a  pollen  pool  with  fixed  allele  frequencies  are  illustrated. 


130 


One  Generation  of  Selling 


p=1/2  p=1/2 
Within  Individuals 


p=1/2N  p:=1/2N 
Siblings 

Between  Individuals 


p=1-1/N 
Not  Siblings 


p=1/2N 


p=1/2N 


One  Generation  of  Random  iVIating 


(ZZl) 


p=1-1/N 


Within  Individuals 


C»    r)  ^  rl     (^^  ^ 

P=1/2N  p=1/2N 
Siblings 

Between  Individuals 


Z) 


p=1-1/N 
Not  Siblings 


Figure  4.  Possible  genealogical  relationships  between  pairs  of  alleles  sampled  within  and  between 
individuals.  The  upper  panel  depicts  the  effects  of  a  single  generation  of  selfing,  while  the  lower  panel 
depicts  the  effects  of  a  single  generation  of  random  mating.  Beneath  each  diagram  is  the  frequency  (p)  of 
the  corresponding  relationship  within  a  population  only  undergoing  either  selfing  or  random  mating. 


population  and  by  increasing  the  chance  for 
colonization  of  suitable  habitat  (Menges  1990).  The 
degree  of  isolation  among  populations  may  also  be 
important  in  deciding  upon  the  appropriate 
geographic  scale  at  which  to  pursue  conservation 
efforts.  Thus,  distinguishing  among  alternative 
population  structures  and  distinguishing  actual 
from  apparent  gene  flow  (Strand  et  al.  1996)  may 
play  an  important  role  in  conservation  biology. 

As  for  estimating  other  demographic  proper- 
ties of  populations,  genealogical  analyses  are 
appropriate  for  assessing  the  degree  of  ongoing 
migration  among  populations.  This  is  because 
migration  of  individuals  acts  to  transfer  alleles 
from  one  subpopulation  to  another.  When  viewed 
in  terms  of  the  genealogical  relationships  of  the 
alleles,  together  with  their  locations,  a  pattern  such 
as  illustrated  by  Figure  6  might  result;  the  degree 
to  which  alleles  are  transferred  between  subpopu- 
lations  is  directly  related  to  the  rate  of  migration. 


Alternatively,  one  might  consider  only  the  gen- 
ealogical relationships  of  alleles,  independent  of 
their  locations,  and  map  onto  that  genealogy  the 
location  of  each  allele  and  its  ancestors  (Figure  7). 
Given  standard  means  of  constructing  such 
genealogies  from  DNA  sequence  data  (Swofford 
and  Olsen  1990)  and  of  inferring  the  number  of 
transitions  between  localities  for  a  collection  of 
alleles,  Slatkin  and  Maddison  (1989)  constructed  a 
means  of  estimating  migration  rate. 

Complex  Life  Histories 

The  preceding  sections  should  make  clear  that 
many  important  demographic  properties  of  popu- 
lations can  readily  be  estimated  from  genetic  data 
on  DNA  sequences  sampled  from  natural  popula- 
tions. As  a  result,  much  is  to  be  gained  in  the  field 
of  conservation  biology  by  integrating  genetic  and 
demographic  studies  of  rare  plants.  It  should  also 
be  evident,  however,  that  estimations  of  demo- 


131 


T 


Selfing  Rate 

Figure  5.  Genealogical  (coalescent)  and  traditional  (F  )  equilibrium  estimates  of  the  mating  system  as  a 
function  of  the  parametric  values  of  selfing  rate  s  and  population  size  N  .  Equality  between  the  para- 
metric and  estimated  values  is  represented  by  the  solid  diagonal  line  coinciding  with  the  genealogical 
estimator,  s(coalescent).  Note  that  the  line  depicting  the  gealogical  estimator  of  selfing  rate  represents 
superimposition  of  values  for  the  same  range  of  population  sizes  as  for  the  traditional  estimator,  s(F  ).  In 
all  cases,  \i  =  10^ . 


Subpopulation  1      Subpopulation  2  Subpopulation  1  Subpopulation  2 


Low  Migration  Moderate  Migration 


Figure  6.  Genealogical  relationships  of  alleles  sampled  from  two  populations  connected  by  migration. 
Migration  of  individuals  transfers  the  alleles  from  one  subpopulation  to  another. 


132 


graphic  properties  from  genetic  data  require  the 
use  of  a  model  describing  how  the  observable 
genetic  properties  relate  to  the  underlying  demo- 
graphic properties.  So  far,  the  models  considered 
have  all  corresponded  to  extremely  simplistic  life 
histories;  in  particular,  they  ignore  such  features 
common  to  plants  as  the  seed  bank,  perennial 
growth  habits,  and  size  or  age  structure.  While  this 
may  be  a  limitation  of  most  currently  available 
models,  it  does  not  reflect  a  fundamental  flaw  with 
the  general  approach  of  linking  genetics  and 
demography.  Rather,  it  points  to  an  area  in  which 
future  research  would  be  very  profitable  (Milligcin 
et  al.  1994). 

In  the  case  of  estimating  effective  population 
size,  however,  arbitrarily  complex  life  histories 
may  be  incorporated  into  the  models  (Orive  1993), 
thus  making  them  applicable  to  any  plant  species. 
The  framework  for  doing  so  is  the  standard 
matrix-projection  model  used  to  describe  transi- 
tions from  one  age  or  demographic  stage  to 
another  (Caswell  1989).  For  example.  Figure  8 
illustrates  the  transitions  between  life-history 
stages  of  Pedicularis furbishiae  (Menges  1990). 
Although  such  figures  are  commonly  interpreted 
as  giving  the  probability  with  which  an  individual 
of  one  stage  in  a  particular  generation  will  move 
into  another  stage  in  the  subsequent  generation,  it 
can  equally  be  interpreted  as  the  probability  with 
which  an  allele  moves  from  one  stage  to  another. 
As  a  result,  life  cycle  graphs  such  as  Figure  8  can 
be  used  to  trace  patterns  and  times  of  common 
ancestry  between  pairs  of  alleles  sampled  from 
natural  populations.  Because  the  times  of  common 
ancestry  are  related  to  the  degree  of  DNA  se- 
quence divergence,  the  genetic  and  demographic 
properties  of  populations  exhibiting  even  very 
complex  life  histories  can  be  linked,  as  is  required 
if  we  are  to  estimate  the  demographic  from  the 
genetic  properties. 

Not  only  do  plants  generally  exhibit  complex 
life  histories,  but  they  also  generally  exhibit 
nonrandom  mating.  It  is  important,  therefore,  to 
determine  how  the  mating  system  interacts  with  a 
complex  life  history  to  influence  such  demo- 
graphic properties  as  effective  population  size. 
Using  the  already  quite  general  models  of  Orive 
(1993)  as  a  foundation,  we  have  included  a  de- 
scription of  mating  involving  a  mixture  of  selfing 
and  random  outcrossing,  the  classical  mixed 
mating  model  (Brown  1979,  Clegg  1980). 

Although  a  wide  array  of  results  are  possible 
given  the  potential  complexity  of  the  model.  Fig- 
ure 9  illustrates  three  general  patterns  evident  in 


this  analysis  of  the  Pedicularis  life  cycle  of  Figure  8. 
First,  actual  census  population  size  has  little  effect 
on  the  ratio  of  effective  to  census  size.  That  is, 
populations  with  complex  life  histories  act  as  an 
ideal  population  of  somewhat  smaller  size  than 
indicated  by  the  number  of  reproductive  adults, 
but  how  much  smaller  is  independent  of  the  actual 
population  size.  Second,  the  type  of  mating  system 
has  a  dramatic  effect  on  how  much  smaller  the 
effective  size  is  relative  to  the  census  size.  There  is 
a  very  large  difference  between  random  mating  (s 
=  0)  and  a  small  degree  of  selfing  (e.g.,  s  =  0:1),  but 
over  a  wide  range  of  mixed  mating  systems  the 
actual  selfing  rate  has  little  effect.  This  is  important 
when  considering  the  prospect  of  estimating 
effective  size,  because  it  indicates  that,  while  it  is 
necessary  to  determine  whether  any  selfing  occurs, 
precise  quantification  of  the  actual  selfing  rate  is 
not  critical.  Finally,  especially  from  the  perspective 
of  conservation  biology,  the  general  magnitude  of 
effective  size  relative  to  census  size  is  important. 
For  a  wide  range  of  selfing  rates  and  population 
sizes,  effective  size  is  less  than  10  percent  of  the 
number  of  reproductive  adults;  it  is  a  much  smal- 
ler fraction  of  the  total  population  size  because 
only  about  12  percent  reproduce.  Populations  of 
Pedicularis  exhibit  the  demographic  properties  of 
much  smaller  ideal  populations.  As  a  result, 
further  reduction  in  size  may  have  drastic  effects 
should  that  reduction  eliminate  any  of  the  individ- 
uals responsible  for  maintaining  the  populations 
at  even  these  small  levels.  Such  small  effective 
sizes  for  plants  with  complex  life  histories  and 
mixed  mating  is  in  distinct  contrast  to  the  larger 
effective  sizes  of  many  animal  populations,  even 
those  with  extremely  nonrandom  mating  (Nunney 
1993,  Nunney  and  Campbell  1993).  This  suggests 
the  need  for  greater  concern  when  managing  rare 
plant  populations. 

Future  Prospects 

Conservation  biology  faces  a  broad  array  of 
problems,  the  most  important  of  which  is  how  to 
allocate  scarce  resources  to  effect  the  task  of 
preserving  biological  diversity.  An  array  of  tech- 
niques, including  assays  of  genetic  markers,  have 
been  brought  to  bear  on  the  problems.  The  role  of 
genetic  information  has  often  been  limited,  how- 
ever, to  the  quantification  of  genetic  diversity  and 
how  it  is  partitioned  within  and  among  popula- 
tions. While  this  is  clearly  important  for  the  tasks 
of  conserving  genetic  diversity  per  se  (Falk  1990), 
it  is  inadequate  for  the  broader  task  of  providing 
information  on  demographic  factors  affecting 


133 


Low  Migration  Moderate  Migration 

Figure  7.  Migration  depicted  as  a  characteristic  overlaid  on  the  genealogical  relationship  of  alleles.  The 
migration  pattern  depicted  in  Figure  6  is  shown  with  the  shaded  portions  of  the  genealogy  representing 
an  allele  present  in  subpopulation  2. 


0.01 


Figure  8.  Transitions  between  life-history  stages  for  Pedicularis  furbishiae  (Menges  1990).  Numbers  repre- 
sent the  rates  of  each  transition. 


134 


Ne/N 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 


Figure  9.  Dependence  on  adult  population  size  and  selfing  rate  of  inbreeding  effective  population  size  Ne 
relative  to  total  population  size  N  .  Note  that  adult  population  size  refers  to  the  number  of  adults  from 
the  stable  age  distribution  in  the  three  reproductive  life-history  stages,  whereas  total  population  size  in- 
cludes individuals  of  all  life-history  stages. 


population  persistence.  Arguably,  the  latter  is  of 
pressing  importance  in  conservation  biology. 

In  this  review  we  have  attempted  to  illustrate 
how  information  obtained  from  genetic  markers 
can  go  beyond  marker  diversity  and  provide 
estimates  of  many  demographic  parameters  of 
interest  to  the  conservation  biologist.  The  utility  of 
markers  in  this  role  is  a  result  of  the  fact  that 
demographic  properties  of  populations  influence 
their  genetic  properties;  as  a  result,  one  may  infer 
the  demographic  properties  from  marker  data.  The 
success  of  this  endeavor  depends  largely  on  the 
manner  in  which  genetic  properties  are  assayed. 
Traditional  markers,  e.g.,  allozymes,  only  provide 
information  on  the  frequency  of  individual  geno- 
typic  classes,  not  on  the  genealogical  relationship 
among  classes.  As  a  result,  in  certain  applications, 
such  as  discriminating  whether  a  set  of  popula- 
tions are  demographically  isolated  or  subject  to 
some  form  of  extinction  and  recolonization,  they 
are  of  limited  utility.  In  other  applications,  such  as 
estimating  the  short-term  mating  system  or  the 


effective  population  size  given  current  conditions, 
such  markers  are  quite  useful. 

In  many  cases,  however,  one  is  interested  in 
the  long-term  demographic  properties  of  a  popu- 
lation or  set  of  populations,  perhaps  as  a  predictor 
of  long-term  prospects.  In  this  instance,  short-term 
observation  of  marker  frequencies  cannot  provide 
the  necessary  information.  Genealogies  of  mark- 
ers, however,  contain  additional  information  that 
is  useful  for  inferring  long-term  demographic 
properties.  Because  haplotype-based  markers  such 
as  DNA  sequences  contain  a  record  of  their  own 
history,  their  genealogies  can  be  reconstructed  and 
used  in  the  inference  of  demographic  properties. 
For  this  reason,  they  appear  to  be  the  most 
promising  class  of  markers  in  this  application  of 
population  genetics  to  conservation  biology. 

More  generally,  it  is  our  conviction  that  com- 
parisons between  long-term  demographic  proper- 
ties, estimated  from  genetic  data  as  discussed  here, 
and  short-term  demographic  properties,  estimated 
from  direct  observation,  wiU  provide  the  informa- 


135 


tion  necessary  to  infer  trends  in  population  status. 
In  many  cases  those  trends  are  of  prime  impor- 
tance in  assessing  the  degree  to  which  conserva- 
tion efforts  should  be  mobilized,  yet  they  are  also 
extremely  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  ascertain  in 
the  absence  of  long-term  information  such  as 
recorded  in  DNA  sequences.  Conservation  biology 
has  much  to  gain,  therefore,  by  integrating  popu- 
lation genetics  and  demography  with  the  goal  of 
quantifying  not  only  properties  of  populations  but 
also  historical  trends  in  those  properties. 

Acknowledgments 

This  research  was  supported  in  part  by  Na- 
tional Science  Foundation  grant  8906129  and  by 
the  Big  Bend  Natural  History  Association. 

Literature  Cited 

Belovsky,  G.E.  1987.  Extinction  models  and  mammalian 
persistence.  In  M.E.  Soule,  editor.  Viable  Populations 
for  Conservation,  pp.  35-57.  Cambridge  University 
Press,  Cambridge. 

Bradshaw,  M.E.,  and  J.P.  Doody.  1978.  Plant  population 
studies  and  their  relevance  to  nature  conservation. 
Biological  Conservation  14:223-242. 

Brown,  A.H.D.  1979.  Enzyme  polymorphism  in  plant 
populations.  Theoretical  Population  Biology  15:1-42. 

Brown,  A.H.D.  1989.  Genetic  characterization  of  plant 
mating  systems.  In  A.H.D.  Brown,  M.T.  Clegg,  A.L. 
Kahler,  and  B.S.  Weir,  editors.  Plant  Population 
Genetics,  Breeding,  and  Genetic  Resources,  pp.  145- 
162.  Sinauer,  Sunderland,  Massachusetts. 

Brown,  A.H.D.,  A.C  Matheson,  and  K.G.  Eldridge.  1975. 
Estimation  of  the  mating  system  of  Eucalyptus  obliqua 
L'Herit.  by  using  allozyme  polymorphisms.  Austral- 
ian Journal  of  Botany  23:931-949. 

Brown,  A.H.D.,  and  R.W.  Allard.  1970.  Estimation  of  the 
mating  system  in  open-pollinated  maize  populations 
using  isozyme  polymorphisms.  Genetics  66:133-145. 

Brown,  A.H.D.,  J.E.  Grant,  and  R.  Pullen.  1986. 
Outcrossing  and  paternity  in  Glycine  argyrea  by 
paired  fruit  analysis.  Biological  Journal  of  the  Lin- 
nean  Society  29:283-294. 

Brown,  A.H.D.,  J.J.  Burdon,  and  A.  M.  Jarosz.  1989. 
Isozyme  analysis  of  plant  mating  systems.  In  D.E. 
Soltis  and  P.S.  Soltis,  editors.  Isozymes  in  Plant  Biol- 
ogy, pp.  73-86.  Dioscorides  Press,  Portland,  Oregon. 

Caswell,  H.  1989.  Matrix  Population  Models.  Construc- 
tion, Analysis  and  Interpretation.  Sinauer,  Sunder- 
land, Massachusetts. 

Clegg,  M.T.  1980.  Measuring  plant  mating  systems. 
Bioscience  30:814-818. 

Crow,  J.F.,  and  C.  Denniston.  1988.  Inbreeding  and 
variance  effective  population  numbers.  Evolution 
42:482^95. 


Dole,  J.A.,  and  K.  Ritland.  1993.  Inbreeding  depression 
in  two  Minniliis  taxa  measured  by  multi-generational 
changes  in  the  inbreeding  coefficient.  Evolution 
47:361-373. 

Eguiarte,  L.E.,  N.  Perez-Nasser,  and  D.  Pinero.  1992. 
Genetic  structure,  outcrossing  rate  and  heterosis  in 
Astrocaryum  mexicamim  (tropical  palm):  Implications 
for  evolution  and  conservation.  Heredity  69:217-228. 

Ellstrand,  N.C.  1992.  Gene  flow  by  pollen:  Implications 
for  plant  conservation  genetics.  Oikos  63:77-86. 

Ellstrand,  N.C,  and  D.R.  Elam.  1993.  Population  genetic 
consequences  of  small  population  size:  Implications 
for  plant  conservation.  Annual  Review  of  Ecology 
and  Systematics  24:217-242. 

Ewens,  W.J.  1979.  Mathematical  Population  Genetics. 
Vol.  9  of  Biomathematics.  Springer- Verlag,  Berlin. 

Ewens,  W.J.  1990.  Population  genetics  theory — the  past 
and  the  future.  In  S.  Lessard,  editor.  Mathematical  & 
Statistical  Developments  of  Evolutionary  Theory,  pp. 
177-227.  Kluwer,  Dordrecht,  The  Netherlands. 

Falk,  D.A.  1990.  Integrated  strategies  for  conserving 
plant  genetic  diversity.  Annals  of  the  Missouri  Bo- 
tanical Garden  77:38-47. 

Felsenstein,  J.  1992.  Estimating  effective  population  size 
from  samples  of  sequences:  A  bootstrap  Monte  Carlo 
integration  method.  Genetical  Research  60:209-220. 

Fryxell,  P. A.  1957.  Mode  of  reproduction  of  higher 
plants.  Botanical  Review  23:135-233. 

Goodman,  D.  1987a.  The  demography  of  chance  extinc- 
tion. In  M.E.  Soule,  editor.  Viable  Populations  for 
Conservation,  pp.  11-34.  Cambridge  University 
Press,  Cambridge. 

Goodman,  D.  1987b.  How  do  any  species  persist?  Les- 
sons for  conservation  biology.  Conservation  Biology 
1:59-62. 

Hamrick,  J.L.  1982.  Plant  population  genetics  and  evolu- 
tion. American  Journal  of  Botany  69:1685-1693. 

Holtsford,  T.P.,  and  N.C.  Ellstrand.  1990.  Inbreeding 
effects  in  Clarkia  temblor iensis  (Onagraceae)  popula- 
tions with  different  natural  outcrossing  rates.  Evolu- 
tion 44:2031-2046. 

Hudson,  R.R.  1990.  Gene  genealogies  and  the  coalescent 
process.  Oxford  Surveys  in  Evolutionary  Biology 
7:1-44. 

Hutchings,  J.A.,  and  M.M.  Ferguson.  1992.  The  indepen- 
dence of  enzyme  heterozygosity  and  life-history 
traits  in  natural  populations  of  Salvelinus  fontinalis 
(brook  trout).  Heredity  69:496-502. 

Kimura,  M.,  and  J.F.  Crow.  1963.  The  measurement  of 
effective  population  number.  Evolution  17:279-288. 

Kingman,  J.F.C.  1982.  The  coalescent.  Stochastic  Pro- 
cesses and  their  Applications  13:235-248. 

Kuhner,  M.K.,  J.  Yamato,  and  J.  Felsenstein.  1995. 
Estimating  effective  population  size  and  mutation 
rate  from  sequence  data  using  Metropolis-Hastings 
sampling.  Genetics  140:1421-1430. 


136 


Lande,  R.  1988.  Genetics  and  demography  in  biological 
conservation.  Science  41:1455-1460. 

Lande,  R.,  and  G.F.  Barrowclough.  1987.  Effective 
population  size,  genetic  variation,  and  their  use  in 
population  management.  In  M.E.  Soule,  editor. 
Viable  Populations  for  Conservation,  pp.  87-123. 
Cambridge  University  Press,  Cambridge,  England. 

Leberg,  P.L.  1993.  Strategies  for  population  reintroduc- 
tion:  Effects  of  genetic  variability  on  population 
growth  and  size.  Conservation  Biology  7:194-199. 

Levin,  D.A.,  and  H.W.  Kerster.  1974.  Gene  flow  in  seed 
plants.  In  T.  Dobzhansky,  M.K.  Hecht,  and  W.C. 
Steere,  editors.  Evolutionary  Biology,  pp.  139-220. 
Vol.  7.  Plenum,  New  York. 

Lloyd,  D.G.  1980.  Demographic  factors  and  mating 
patterns  in  angiosperms.  In  O.T.  Solbrig,  editor. 
Demography  and  Evolution  in  Plant  Populations,  pp. 
67-88.  Blackwell  Scientific,  Oxford,  England. 

Mace,  G.M.,  and  R.  Lande.  1991.  Assessing  extinction 
threats:  Toward  a  reevaluation  of  lUCN  threatened 
species  categories.  Conservation  Biology  5:148-157. 

Meagher,  T.R.,  J.  Antonovics,  and  R.  Primack.  1978. 
Experimental  ecological  genetics  in  Plantago.  III. 
Genetic  variation  and  demography  in  relation  to 
survival  of  Plantago  cordata,  a  rare  species.  Biological 
Conservation  14:243-257. 

Menges,  E.S.  1990.  Population  viability  analysis  for  an 
endangered  plant.  Conservation  Biology  4:52-62. 

Menges,  E.S.  1992.  Stochastic  modeling  of  extinction  in 
plant  populations.  In  P.L.  Fiedler,  and  S.K.  Jain,  edi- 
tors. Conservation  Biology,  pp.  253-275.  The  theory 
and  practice  of  nature  conservation,  preservation, 
and  management.  Chapman  and  Hall,  New  York. 

Milhgan,  B.G.  1996.  Estimating  long-term  mating  sys- 
tems using  DNA  sequences.  Genetics.  In  press. 

Milligan,  B.G.,  J.  Leebens-Mack,  and  A.E.  Strand.  1994. 
Conservation  genetics:  Beyond  the  maintenance  of 
marker  diversity.  Molecular  Ecology  3:423-435. 

Nunney,  L.  1993.  The  influence  of  mating  system  and 
overlapping  generations  on  effective  population  size. 
Evolution  47:1329-1341. 

Nunney,  L.,  and  K.A.  Campbell.  1993.  Assessing  mini- 
mum viable  population  size:  Demography  meets 
population  genetics.  Trends  in  Ecology  and  Evolu- 
tion 8:234-239. 

Orive,  M.E.  1993.  Effective  population  size  in  organisms 
with  complex  life-histories.  Theoretical  Population 
Biology  44:316-340. 


Pavlik,  B.M.,  and  M.G.  Barbour.  1988.  Demographic 
monitoring  of  endemic  sand  dune  plants.  Eureka 
Valley,  California.  Biological  Conservation  46:217- 
242. 

Polans,  N.O.,  and  R.W.  Allard.  1989.  An  experimental 
evaluation  of  the  recovery  potential  of  ryegrass 
populations  from  genetic  stress  resulting  from  re- 
striction of  population  size.  Evolution  43:1320-1324. 

Ritland,  K.  1984.  The  effective  proportion  of  self-fertili- 
zation with  consanguineous  matings  in  inbred  popu- 
lations. Genetics  106:139-152. 

Slatkin,  M.,  and  W.P.  Maddison.  1989.  A  cladistic  meas- 
ure of  gene  flow  inferred  from  the  phylogenies  of 
alleles.  Genetics  123:603-613. 

Strand,  A.E.,  B.G.  Milligan,  and  CM.  Pruitt.  1996.  Are 
populations  islands?  Analysis  of  chloroplast  DNA 
variation  in  Aquilegia.  Evolution.  In  press. 

Strobeck,  C.  1983.  Estimation  of  the  neutral  mutation 
rate  in  a  finite  population  from  DNA  sequence  data. 
Theoretical  Population  Biology  24:160-172. 

Swofford,  D.L.,  and  G.J.  Olsen.  1990.  Phylogeny  recon- 
struction. In  D.M.  Hillis  and  C.  Moritz,  editors. 
Molecular  Systematics,  pp.  411-501.  Sinauer,  Sunder- 
land, Massachusetts. 

Thomas,  CD.  1990.  What  do  real  population  dynamics 
tell  us  about  minimum  viable  population  sizes?  Con- 
servation Biology  4:324-327. 

Vasek,  F.C,  and  J.  Harding.  1976.  Outcrossing  in  natural 
populations.  V.  Analysis  of  outcrossing,  inbreeding, 
and  selection  in  Clarkia  exilis  and  Clarkia  tembloriensis . 
Evolution  30:403-411. 

Warwick,  S.I.  1989.  The  mating  system  in  sympatric 
populations  of  Cardials  nutans,  C.  acanthoides  and 
their  hybrid  swarms.  Heredity  63:329-337. 

Whitlock,  M.  1993.  Lack  of  correlation  between  hetero- 
zygosity and  fitness  in  forked  fungus  beetles.  Hered- 
ity 70:574-581. 

Widen,  B.,  and  S.  Andersson.  1993.  Quantitative  genetics 
of  life-history  and  morphology  in  a  rare  plant,  Senecio 
integrifoliiis.  Heredity  70:503-514. 

Willson,  M.F.  1984.  Mating  patterns  in  plants.  In  R. 
Dirzo  and  J.  Sarukhan,  editors.  Perspectives  on  Plant 
Population  Ecology,  pp.  261-276.  Sinauer,  Sunder- 
land, Massachusetts. 

Wright,  S.  1931.  Evolution  in  Mendelian  populations. 
Genetics  16:97-159. 


137 


Genetics  and  Conservation  Biology:  Assessing  Historical  Gene 
Flow  in  Aquilegia  Populations  of  the  Southwest 

ALLAN  E.  STRAND  and  BRQOK  G.  MILLIGAN 
Department  of  Biology,  New  Mexico  State  University,  Las  Cruces,  New  Mexico  88003 

Abstract:  One  important  demographic  process  influencing  the  management  of  rare  plant 
species  is  the  degree  to  which  geographically  distinct  populations  are  interconnected  by  gene 
flow.  If  populations  are  highly  integrated  by  seed  dispersal,  a  newly  extinct  one  may  become 
recolonized  naturally;  if  populations  are  essentially  isolated  from  each  other,  active  interven- 
tion may  be  required  to  reestablish  populations.  The  most  tractable  means  of  obtaining  infor- 
mation on  the  rate  of  migration  is  based  on  genetic  observations.  The  genetic  approach  is  also 
the  only  means  to  estimate  long-term  rates  of  migration.  Unfortunately,  the  same  genetic 
pattern  can  arise  by  the  presence  of  ongoing  gene  flow  or  in  its  complete  absence.  Using 
information  on  chloroplast  DNA  sequence  variation  in  Aquilegia,  we  have  been  able  to 
distinguish  between  these  two  possibilities  and  demonstrate  that  virtually  no  seed-mediated 
gene  flow  interconnects  distinct  populations. 


Introduction 

The  degree  to  which  natural  populations  inter- 
act is  an  important  issue  in  conservation  biology. 
One  way  in  which  interaction  is  important  is  in 
allowing  the  recolonization  of  locally  extinct  popu- 
lations within  the  range  of  a  species  (Menges  1990, 
Whitlock  1992).  Among-population  interactions 
also  influence  the  probability  of  parasite  and 
pathogen  spread  (Boeger  et  al.  1993,  Goodwin  et 
al.  1994),  the  probability  of  founding  new  popula- 
tions, and  the  degree  and  partitioning  of  genetic 
variation  (Hamrick  1987). 

Unfortunately,  direct  measurement  of  migra- 
tion among  natural  populations  is  often  difficult. 
Propagules  must  be  marked  either  physically  or 
with  unique  genetic  markers  and  followed  among 
populations  (Ellstrand  and  Marshall  1985);  alter- 
natively, immigrants  must  be  counted  as  they 
enter  each  population  under  study.  While  marking 
and  recapturing  some  species  is  possible,  for 
plants  this  task  is  daunting  if  not  impossible.  Not 
only  is  it  logistically  difficult  to  directly  measure 
migration,  such  measurements  provide  data  for 
only  a  few  years  at  best.  Therefore,  they  may  miss 
relatively  rare  but  important  events. 

Indirect  estimation  of  migration  offers  an 
attractive  alternative  to  its  direct  measurement. 
Indirect  measures  infer  the  amount  of  gene  flow 
among  populations  from  the  distribution  of  single 
gene  marker  diversity.  Although  other  approaches 
are  available  (Slatkin  1985),  the  distribution  of 
genetic  variation  within  and  among  populations  is 
commonly  quantified  by  estimating  the  parameter 
FsT/  the  ratio  of  among  to  within  population 


genetic  variance  (Wright  1951,  1978),  and  gene 
flow  is  estimated  from  the  relationship  between 
Fsr  and  the  number  of  migrants  among  popula- 
tions per  generation  (usually  denoted  as  Nm) 
(Wright  1951).  Many  empirical  studies  have  used 
this  approach  to  estimate  migration  in  natural 
populations  (Soltis  and  Soltis  1987,  Hamrick  et  al. 
1989,  Strand  and  Wyatt  1991). 

Because  Wright's  (1951)  relationship  between 
Fsr  and  Nm  assumes  a  population  system  at  equi- 
librium, naive  use  of  this  relationship  can  result  in 
misleading  estimates  of  migration.  For  example,  if 
a  set  of  populations  is  the  result  of  a  recent  set  of 
founding  or  vicariance  events,  the  populations  will 
appear  to  be  exchanging  migrants  even  in  the  ab- 
sence of  any  gene  flow  merely  because  they  share 
a  common  evolutionary  history  prior  to  the  estab- 
lishment as  discrete  populations.  Therefore,  before 
indirect  estimates  of  migration  are  interpreted  as 
measures  of  ongoing  gene  flow,  it  is  clearly  impor- 
tant to  verify  that  the  population  system  has  come 
to  equilibrium.  Misinterpretation  of  the  migration 
measured  may  be  particularly  costly  in  conserva- 
tion biology  if  recolonization  is  expected  because 
of  high  apparent  gene  flow  when  in  fact  that 
observation  only  reflects  recent  subdivision  of  a 
more  recent  widespread  population. 

In  this  study  we  combine  two  approaches  to 
choose  between  alternative  hypotheses  regarding 
the  origin  of  current  patterns  of  genetic  diversity 
in  members  of  the  genus  Aquilegia:  ongoing  gene 
flow  versus  recent  historical  subdivision  and  no 
ongoing  gene  flow.  Distinguishing  between  these 
hypotheses,  that  is,  separating  apparent  from  ac- 


138 


tual  gene  flow,  is  essential  to  obtainiiig  meaningful 
estimates  of  actual  migration  rate,  a  demographic 
parameter  importaiit  in  conservation  biology. 

Materials  and  Methods 
Study  Organism 
The  genus  Aqiiilegia,  a  north  temperate  taxon 
of  about  70  species  (Munz  1946,  Whittemore, 
personal  communication),  is  characterized  by 
dramatic  diversity  in  both  floral  morphology  and 
habitat  preference.  At  one  extreme  of  this  range  of 
diversity  are  the  long-spurred  columbines  of  the 
desert  Southwest.  Due  to  the  complex  nature  of 
the  morphological  variation  present  among  Aqui- 
legia  populations  endemic  to  this  region,  the  mem- 
bers of  the  genus  have  received  varied  taxonomic 
treatments,  resulting  in  from  two  to  four  distinct 
species  (Munz  1946,  Lott  1985).  Currently,  this 
complex  is  divided  into  two  distinct  species, 
Aquilegia  longissima  A.  Gray  ex  S.  Watson  and  A. 
chrysantha  A.  Gray  which  is  divided  into  three 
varieties,  A.  chrysantha  var.  cha-plinei  (Payson)  Lott, 
A.  chrysantha  var.  hinckleyana  (Munz)  Lott,  and  A. 
chrysantlm  var.  rydbergii  Munz  (Lott  1985).  Here, 
we  examine  populations  of  A.  longissima,  A. 
chrysantlm  var.  chaplinei,  and  A.  chrysantha  var. 
rydbergii.  Throughout  this  study,  we  consider  pop- 
ulations of  these  three  taxa  to  have  equal  potential 
for  interbreeding,  a  well-known  characteristic  of 
this  genus  (Taylor  1967);  therefore,  we  treat  all 
populations  equally  without  regard  to  taxonomic 
status. 

All  Aquilegia  taxa  in  the  southwestern  United 
States  and  northern  Mexico  are  found  in  rather 
small,  isolated  populations  in  mesic,  high-altitude 
canyons  separated  by  intervening  desert.  This 
island  population  structure  provides  an  excellent 
opportunity  to  examine  within  and  among  popu- 
lation variation  in  neutral  markers  because  such  a 
discrete  arrangement  closely  matches  many  of  the 
assumptions  made  by  classical  treatments  of  popu- 
lation structure  (Wright  1951,  1978).  In  addition, 
this  population  structure  is  present  in  many  rare 
species  (Rabinowitz  1981)  and  therefore  provides  a 
good  model  system  for  examining  the  fate  of  such 
groups. 

Choice  of  Marker  System 

Most  studies  of  population  structure  have 
relied  on  isozymes  encoded  by  nuclear  genes 
(Hamrick  1987).  With  the  advent  of  DNA-based 
methodologies,  however,  other  marker  systems 
are  being  employed.  These  include  randomly 


amplified  polymorphic  DNA  (RAPD)  markers 
(Chalmers  et  al.  1992,  Chu  et  al.  1995),  microsatel- 
lite  DNA  polymorphisms  (Morgante  and  Olivieri 
1993),  and  mitochondrial  DNA-based  markers 
(Norman  et  al.  1994,  Bowen  et  al.  1992,  Edwards 
1993,  Zink  and  Dittmann  1993). 

Historically,  the  chloroplast  genome  in  plants 
has  not  often  been  exploited  to  examine  popula- 
tion-level processes.  This  phenomenon  relates  to 
the  perception  that  the  chloroplast  genome 
evolves  slowly  (Soltis  et  al.  1992).  However,  evo- 
lutionary rate  is  not  constant  across  the  chloroplast 
genome.  For  example,  non-coding  regions  are 
known  to  evolve  faster  than  those  coding  for 
proteins  (Wolfe  and  Sharp  1988).  This  observation 
suggests  that  population  level  processes  could  be 
estimated  using  markers  based  on  these  regions. 
Indeed,  those  studies  that  have  looked  for  varia- 
tion in  the  chloroplast  genome  within  and  among 
populations  have  found  it  (Banks  and  Birky  1985, 
Milligan  1991,  Soltis  et  al.  1989,  Soltis  et  al.  1992). 

The  chloroplast  genome  appears  to  be  mater- 
nally inherited  in  Aquilegia  (Corriveau  and  Cole- 
man 1988).  Therefore,  estimates  of  migration  based 
on  chloroplast  markers  reflect  movement  by  seed. 
This  component  of  migration  is  especially  relevant 
to  conservation  issues  because  only  seed  move- 
ment allows  the  regeneration  and  colonization  of 
populations. 

DNA  Isolation,  Amiplification,  and 
Electrophoretic  Detection  of  Variation 

Detailed  protocols  for  DNA  isolations,  poly- 
merase chain  reaction  conditions,  and  electro- 
phoretic systems  are  provided  in  Strand  et  al. 
(1996).  In  short,  genomic  DNA  was  isolated  from 
203  individuals  collected  from  17  populations 
throughout  the  range  of  the  three  Aquilegia  taxa 
examined  (Figure  1  and  Table  1).  A  500  nucleotide 
non-coding  region  of  the  chloroplast  genome 
located  between  the  transfer  RNA  genes,  trnL  and 
tm¥,  was  amplified  from  the  genomic  DNA  iso- 
lates by  means  of  the  polymerase  chain  reaction. 
Amplified  fragments  were  compared  to  one 
another  on  two  electrophoretic  gel  systems.  First, 
all  individuals  were  run  on  0.9%  agarose  gels  to 
confirm  that  no  large  insertions  or  deletions  were 
present.  Next,  denaturing  gradient  gel  electro- 
phoresis (DGGE)  was  used  to  detect  small 
insertions  and  deletions  and  single  base  point 
mutations  (Myers  et  al.  1988,  Myers  et  al.  1989). 
Genotypes  were  assigned  both  by  running 
standard  variants  on  each  gel  and  by  rearranging 


139 


placement  of  individuals  on  subsequent  runs  to 
reconfirm  scoring.  In  addition,  heteroduplex 
analysis  (White  et  al.  1992,  Lessa  and  Applebaum 
1993)  was  performed  by  mixing  representative 
templates  from  each  population  with  the  afore- 
mentioned standard  variants  within  a  polymerase 
chain  reaction  performed  under  the  same  condi- 
tions used  initially  (Delwart  et  al.  1993). 

Data  Analysis 

Both  approaches  to  distinguishing  the  histor- 
ical subdivision  hypothesis  from  the  ongoing  gene 
flow  hypothesis  utilize  variations  on  an  estimate 
of  the  number  of  genetic  migrants  per  generation 
(Nm)  derived  from  estimates  of  population  genetic 
structure.  For  our  estimate  of  population  structure. 
Weir  and  Cockerham's  (1984)  6,  a  measure  equiva- 
lent to  Wright's  (1951,  1978)  Fst,  was  calculated 
from  the  gene  frequency  data  for  all  populations. 
This  statistic  measures  the  amount  of  total  genetic 
variation  due  to  among-population  variation.  The 
program  HAPLOID.FOR  (Weir  1990)  was  used  to 
calculate  G.  The  estimates  of  the  number  of  mi- 
grants per  generation  are  based  on  Wright's  (1951) 
relationship  between  Fgr  (here  0)  and  Nm: 


Nm  = 


Note  the  replacement  of  Wright's  (1951)  1/4  with 
1/2  in  this  formula.  This  substitution  results  from 
the  fact  that  the  chloroplast  is  uniparentally  inher- 
ited, and  therefore  behaves  as  a  haploid  marker. 

Isolation  by  Distajwe.  Slatkin  (1993)  has  devel- 
oped a  method  to  test  for  equilibrium  conditions 
in  a  population  system.  This  method  looks  for  a 
pattern  of  isolation  by  distance  among  popula- 
tions. If  the  populations  in  a  system  have  come  to 
equilibrium  and  are  undergoing  gene  flow,  nearby 
populations  will  resemble  each  other  genetically 
more  than  populations  separated  by  larger  dis- 
tances. Under  equilibrium  conditions,  an  exponen- 
tial decline  is  expected  in  the  estimates  of  gene 
flow  between  population  pairs  as  geographic 
distance  between  them  increases  exponentially 
(Slatkin  1993).  This  characteristic  allows  a  simple, 
direct  test  of  the  relationship  between  the  loga- 
rithm of  pairwise  estimates  of  gene  flow  and  the 
logarithm  of  pairwise  geographic  distance.  In  the 
context  of  a  stepping-stone  model  of  gene  flow,  a 
large  negative  correlation  indicates  that  the  popu- 
lation system  is  in  equilibrium  and  that  ongoing 
gene  flow  is  resulting  in  a  pattern  of  isolation  by 
distance.  The  lack  of  correlation  suggests  that 
indications  of  ongoing  gene  flow  result  from 


Table  1.  Taxonomic  designation,  population  name,  abbreviation,  and  location  of  the  17  Aquilegia  popula- 
tions in  the  southwestern  United  States  and  Mexico  examined  in  this  study. 


Taxon 

Population 

Abbreviation 

Latitude 

Longitude 

A.  chrysantha  var. 

Caballero  Canyon 

CAB 

32°52'33" 

105°50'2" 

chaplinei 

Cloudcroft 

CLD 

32°57'26" 

105°44'31" 

McKittrick  Canyon 

MKC 

31°5813" 

104°4115" 

Sitting  Bull  Falls 

srr 

32°14'50" 

104°41'46" 

A.  chrysantha  var. 

Bear  Creek 

BRC 

32°57'20" 

108°36'6" 

rydbergii 

Little  Creek 

LTC 

33°12'14" 

108°12'51" 

Palo  Amarillo  Springs 

PAS 

29°30'36" 

104°8'55" 

A.  longissima 

Canon  Charrateria 

CHA 

27°7'30" 

102°33'30" 

Cafvon  de  la  Hacienda 

HAC 

2703.30" 

102°25'30" 

Cattail  Falls 

CAT 

29°16'24" 

103°20'3" 

Cerro  del  Centinella 

CEN 

29°6'40" 

102°36'5" 

Maple  Canyon 

MAP 

29°17'52" 

103°17'5" 

Mt.  Livermore 

MTL 

30°38'7' 

104°10*22" 

Nuevo  Leon 

NUL 

25°23'0" 

100°18'0" 

Pine  Canyon 

PIC 

29°1517" 

103°12'58" 

Pine  Peak 

PIP 

30°39'18" 

104°6'48" 

Sierra  Mojada 

SIM 

27°15'40" 

103°40'50" 

140 


Figure  1.  Location  of  17  Aquilegia  populations  in  the  southwestern  United  States  and  Mexico.  Frequencies 
of  haplotypes  in  each  population  are  indicated  by  relative  area  on  each  population's  respective  pie  dia- 
gram. The  diameter  of  each  pie  is  proportional  to  the  number  of  individuals  sampled  in  the  respective 
population. 


historical  associations  among  populations  rather 
than  current  interpopulation  processes. 

Pairwise  estimates  of  gene  flow  among  Aqui- 
legia populations,  denoted  as  M,  were  calculated 
from  pairwise  estimates  of  0  using  the  relationship 
given  above.  Estimates  of  0  equal  to  zero  or  one 
were  then  removed  from  the  dataset  to  prevent 
estimation  of  undefined  values  of  M .  This  proce- 
dure reduced  the  number  of  pairwise  comparisons 
used  in  subsequent  analyses  from  136  to  64.  Pair- 
wise  geographical  distances  were  calculated  from 
the  latitude  and  longitude  data  presented  in  Table 
1.  These  data  were  plotted  against  pairwise  M 
estimates  using  log-log  scales.  Finally,  linear 
regression  was  used  to  fit  a  line  to  these  data. 
Because  of  the  non-independence  of  the  pairwise 
comparisons,  a  randomization  test  was  used  to 
determine  if  a  slope  significantly  less  than  zero 
exists  between  geographic  distance  and  M.  To 
perform  this  test,  we  randomly  assigned  pairwise 


geographic  distances  from  the  initial  dataset  to  the 
M  estimates  and  recalculated  the  regression  line 
4100  times.  This  effectively  amounts  to  Mantel's 
(1967)  randomization  test.  The  slope  and  were 
recorded  for  each  randomization.  The  slope  and 
R2  obtained  from  the  observed  data  were  then 
compared  to  the  distributions  of  both  variables 
generated  by  randomization. 

Decay  of  Apparent  Gene  Flow.  In  the  absence  of 
actual  migration  subsequent  to  population  isola- 
tion, estimates  of  gene  flow  (apparent  gene  flow) 
within  a  population  system  will  decline  over  time 
in  a  manner  given  by  the  relationship: 

1    _  t 
Nm  ~  Ne 

where  t  refers  to  the  time  in  generations  since  iso- 
lation of  populations  and  refers  to  the  average 
effective  population  size  among  populations  (M. 
Slatkin,  personal  communication). 


141 


We  used  estimates  of  0  and  Wright's  (1951) 
relationship  to  provide  an  overall  estimate  of  Nm. 
As  an  estimate  of  Ng,  we  averaged  the  number  of 
reproductive  individuals  in  six  Aquilegia  popula- 
tions and  used  the  relationship  Ng  =N  reproductive  = 
1/2  given  by  Nunney  (1993).  This  estimate  of  Ng 
was  then  multiplied  by  1/2  to  give  the  effective 
size  for  the  chloroplast  genome.  The  estimate  of 
generations  since  isolation  are  derived  from  a 
range  of  generation  lengths  of  Aquilegia  from  10  to 
30  years  and  an  estimate  of  minimum  time  since 
isolation  of  8000  years  (Van  Devender  1977,  1987, 
Van  Devender  and  Spaulding  1979).  Using  these 
values  gives  a  range  of  266-800  for  the  number  of 
generations  since  isolation. 

These  estimates  were  used  to  compare  the 
Aquilegia  population  system  to  the  decay  of  appar- 
ent gene  flow  curve.  If  the  Aquilegia  system  falls  on 
or  below  the  curve,  historical  subdivision  is  suffi- 
cient to  explain  current  patterns  of  genetic  diver- 
sity. If  the  estimate  of  apparent  gene  flow  falls 
above  the  curve,  ongoing  gene  flow  must  be,  at 
least  in  part,  responsible  for  the  current  patterns. 

Results 

Distribution  of  Variation 
Although  length  variation  was  observed 
among  PGR  products  on  agarose  gels,  denaturing 
gradient  gels  resolved  five  distinct  haplotypes. 
Heteroduplex  analysis  demonstrated  that  in  each 


population,  each  mobility  class  did  indeed  share 
the  same  sequence  with  those  same  mobility 
classes  in  other  populations.  The  frequencies  of  the 
haplotypes  in  each  population  are  presented  in 
Figure  1.  Of  the  13  populations  in  which  more 
than  five  individuals  were  sampled,  four  exhibited 
polymorphism  for  the  chloroplast  DNA  fragment. 
Genetic  diversities  in  these  four  populations  range 
from  0.15  to  0.54.  Two  haplotypes,  b  and  e,  are 
approximately  equally  common  throughout  the 
sampled  range  with  overall  frequencies  of  0.51  and 
0.34  respectively.  Of  the  three  remaining  haplo- 
types, only  two,  c  and  d,  are  present  in  appreciable 
frequencies  (0.06  and  0.08,  respectively)  with  the 
final  haplotype,  a,  occurring  in  a  single  individual. 
The  distribution  of  haplotypes  among  populations 
can  be  summarized  as  follows.  Haplotype  b  is 
present  in  59  percent  and  haplotype  e  in  35  percent 
of  the  sampled  locations,  whereas  both  c  and  d  are 
restricted  to  18  percent  of  the  localities. 

Isolation  by  Distance 

Figure  2  illustrates  the  relationship  between 
pairwise  estimates  of  gene  flow  and  geographical 
distance  (note  the  log-log  scale).  The  least-squares 
line  through  the  data  is  able  to  explain  only  3  per- 
cent of  the  total  variation  present.  The  randomiza- 
tion tests  revealed  that  9  percent  of  the  resampled 
slopes  are  more  negative  than  the  slope  obtained 
from  the  observed  data.  In  addition,  18  percent  of 


Q  Q  ]    I  1  1  1  1  1  1 — I — I — I  1  1  1  I  I  I  I  1  

10  100  1  ()()() 

DistMiice  ill  KiloiiK^lcMs 

Figure  2.  Estimates  of  M  and  distances  between  Aquilegia  populations  in  the  southwestern  United  States 
and  adjacent  Mexico.  Galculation  of  M  is  described  in  the  text.  The  line  in  this  figure  represents  a  linear 
regression  of  the  logarithm  of  M  on  the  logarithm  of  distance  and  illustrates  the  relationship  ln(  M )  = 
1.35-0.452  Ln(distance).  This  regression  has  an  r-^  =  0.03. 


142 


the  resampled  R^s  are  larger  than  that  obtained 
from  the  observed  data.  Therefore,  there  is  no 
evidence  for  isolation  by  distance. 

Decay  of  Apparent  Gene  Flow 
The  overall  estimate  of  0  had  a  value  of  0.86  ± 
0.06  (estimate  ±  standard  deviation  obtained  by 
jack-knifing  across  populations)  over  all  popula- 
tions in  the  study.  This  high  value  is  congruent 
with  the  fact  that  most  populations  were  fixed  for 
alternative  haplotypes.  This  overall  estimate 
yielded  an  estimate  of  Nm  equal  to  0.08  (95%  CI: 
0.01-0.17).  The  number  of  reproductive  individ- 
uals among  populations  is  391  ±  352  (mean  ±  SD). 
Therefore  average  effective  population  size  for 
chloroplast  DNA  should  be  approximately  100. 
Using  this  effective  size  and  the  estimate  of  gen- 
erations since  isolation  above  gives  a  range  of  the 
ratio  of  t/Ng  from  2.66  to  8.00.  These  estimates  are 
plotted  along  with  the  decay  of  apparent  gene 


flow  curve  in  Figure  3.  This  figure  shows  that  the 
95  percent  confidence  area  intersects  the  curve, 
which  would  explain  the  observed  patterns  of 
diversity  through  historical  similarity  alone. 

Discussion 

Based  on  the  identical  mobility  of  PGR  frag- 
ments from  all  individuals  on  agarose  gels,  large 
changes  in  the  length  of  this  region  of  the  chloro- 
plast genome  cannot  be  the  source  of  the  variation 
observed  on  the  denaturing  gels.  Therefore,  these 
differences  in  mobility  must  be  the  result  of 
sequence  variation.  Indeed,  comparisons  of  the 
sequences  of  the  five  haplotypes  in  this  study 
reveal  that  differences  among  haplotypes  are  due 
to  single  base  insertion/ deletion  events  (presum- 
ably caused  by  "slippage"  during  DNA  replica- 
tion), a  single  base  transition,  and  a  single  four 
base  insertion.  This  confirmation  by  DNA  sequenc- 
ing ensures  that  the  variation  resolved  by  denatur- 


0.6 


0.4 


Figure  3.  Plot  of  the  decay  of  apparent  gene  flow  among  populations  in  the  absence  of  actual  gene  flow 
since  isolation.  The  shaded  box  is  the  95  percent  confidence  area  for  the  observed  estimates  of  gene  flow 
Nm  and  the  ratio  of  generations  since  isolation  of  populations  and  the  average  effective  population  size  in 
the  system. 


143 


ing  gradient  gel  electrophoresis,  a  relatively  new 
technique,  does  reflect  variation  at  the  DNA  level. 

The  lack  of  detectable  isolation  by  distance 
provides  strong  evidence  that  this  population 
system  is  not  in  equilibrium  with  respect  to  gene 
flow.  This  observation  could  result  from  either  a 
lack  of  gene  flow  or  from  very  large  amounts  of 
gene  flow.  However,  the  observation  that  the 
overall  estimate  of  gene  flow  is  not  larger  than  the 
levels  predicted  for  a  population  system  under- 
going no  actual  gene  flow  indicates  that  there  is  no 
ongoing  migration  via  seed  among  populations. 
Therefore  we  strongly  favor  the  hypothesis  of 
historical  subdivision  accounting  for  the  observed 
patterns  of  genetic  diversity  in  the  southwestern 
yellow-flowered  Aquilegia  complex. 

The  lack  of  long-distance  migration  via  seed  in 
Aquilegia  should  not  be  surprising  considering  the 
size  (1.5-2  mm)  of  seeds  as  well  as  their  lack  of  any 
specialized  adaptations  for  increased  long-distance 
dispersal,  such  as  fruits  that  are  fleshy  or  that 
function  in  "hitchhiking"  on  animals.  The  dis- 
tances achieved  by  "gravity"  dispersal  of  Aquilegia 
seeds  may  reduce  structuring  within  populations, 
but  it  appears  unlikely  to  enable  dispersal  across 
the  several  kilometers  of  desert  conditions  that 
separate  even  the  closest  populations  in  this  study. 

The  results  presented  here  serve  three  pur- 
poses. First,  we  have  demonstrated  how  genetic 
marker  data,  when  combined  with  relatively 
simple  to  obtain  independent  information,  can  be 
used  to  infer  a  demographic  parameter  important 
in  conservation  biology.  Second,  we  have  shown 
that  the  selection  of  an  appropriate  marker  system, 
in  this  case  one  based  on  the  chloroplast  genome, 
can  greatly  influence  the  value  of  the  markers  in 
terms  of  conservation  biology.  Finally,  these  re- 
sults have  implications  for  the  conservation  biol- 
ogy of  the  southwestern  Aquilegias.  For  example, 
recolonization  of  newly  extinct  populations  will 
not  occur  naturally;  some  intervention  will  be 
required.  Also,  the  lack  of  connectedness  among 
populations  must  be  responsible  in  part  for  the 
high  degree  of  localized  differentiation  observed 
by  taxonomists  in  the  southwestern  members  of 
the  genus. 

Acknowledgments 

This  research  was  supported  in  part  by  the 
National  Science  Foundation  and  by  the  Big  Bend 
Natural  History  Association. 


Literature  Cited 

Banks,  J.A.,  and  C.W.  Birky,  Jr.  1985.  Chloroplast  DNA 
diversity  is  low  in  a  wild  plant,  Liipinus  ^exens/s .  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  USA 
82:6950-6954. 

Boeger,  J.M.,  R.S.  Chen,  and  B.A.  McDonald.  1993.  Gene 
flow  between  geographic  populations  of  Mycosphaer- 
ella  graminicola  (anamorph  Septoria  tritici)  detected 
with  restriction  fragment  length  polymorphism 
markers.  Phytopathology  83:1148-1154. 

Bowen,  B.W.,  A.B.  Meylan,  J.P.  Ross,  C.J.  Limpus,  G.H. 
Balazs,  and  J.C.  Avise.  1992.  Global  population 
structure  and  natural  history  of  the  green  turtle 
{Chelonia  my  das)  in  terms  of  matriarchal  phylogeny. 
Evolution  46:865-881. 

Chalmers,  K.J.,  R.  Waugh,  J.I.  Sprent,  A.J.  Simons,  and 
W.  Powell.  1992.  Detection  of  genetic  variation 
between  and  within  populations  of  Gliricidia  sepium 
and  G .  maculata  using  RAPD  markers.  Heredity 
69:465-472. 

Chu,  J.,  E.  Powers,  and  D.J.  Howard.  1995.  Gene  ex- 
change in  a  ground  cricket  hybrid  zone.  Journal  of 
Heredity  86:17-21. 

Corriveau,  J.L.,  and  A.W.  Coleman.  1988.  Rapid  screen- 
ing method  to  detect  potential  biparental  inheritance 
of  plastid  DNA  and  the  results  for  over  200  angio- 
sperm  species.  American  Journal  of  Botany  75:1443- 
1458. 

Delwart,  E.L.,  E.G.  Shpaer,  J.  Louwagie,  F.E.  McCutch- 
an,  M.  Grez,  H.  Riibsamen-Waigmann,  and  J.I. 
Mullins.  1993.  Genetic  relationships  determined  by  a 
DNA  heteroduplex  mobility  assay:  Analysis  of  HIV- 
1  env  genes.  Science  262:1257-1261. 

Edwards,  S.V.  1993.  Mitochondrial  gene  genealogy  and 
gene  flow  among  island  and  mainland  populations 
of  a  sedentary  songbird,  the  grey-crowned  babbler 
{Pomatostomus  temporalis).  Evolution  47:1118-1137. 

EUstrand,  N.C.,  and  D.L.  Marshall.  1985. 
Interpopulation  gene  flow  by  pollen  in  wild  radish, 
Raplianus  sativus .  American  Naturalist  126:606-612. 

Goodwin,  S.B.,  B.A.  Cohen,  and  W.E.  Fry.  1994.  Pan- 
global  distribution  of  a  single  clonal  lineage  of  the 
Irish  potato  famine  fungus.  Proceedings  of  the 
National  Academy  of  Sciences,  USA  91:11591-11595. 

Hamrick,  J.L.  1987.  Gene  flow  and  distribution  of  genetic 
variation  in  plant  populations.  In  K.M.  Urbanska, 
editor.  Differentiation  Patterns  in  Higher  Plants,  pp. 
53-67.  Academic  Press,  London. 

Hamrick,  J.L.,  H.M.  Blanton,  and  K.J.  Hamrick.  1989. 
Genetic  structure  of  geographically  marginal  popula- 
tions of  ponderosa  pine.  American  Journal  of  Botany 
76:1559-1568. 

Lessa,  E.P.,  and  G.  Applebaum.  1993.  Screening  tech- 
niques for  detecting  allelic  variation  in  DNA  se- 
quences. Molecular  Ecology  2:119-129. 


144 


Lott,  EJ.  1985.  New  combinations  in  Chihuahuan  desert 
Aqiiilegia  (Ranunculaceae).  Phytologia  58:488. 

Mantel,  N.A.  1967.  The  detection  of  disease  clustering 
and  a  generalized  regression  approach.  Cancer 
Research  27:209-220. 

Menges,  E.S.  1990.  Population  viability  analysis  for  an 
endangered  plant.  Conservation  Biology  4:52-62. 

Milligan,  B.C.  1991.  Chloroplast  DNA  diversity  within 
and  among  populations  of  Trifolium  pratense.  Current 
Genetics  19:411-416. 

Morgante,  M.,  and  A.M.  Olivieri.  1993.  PCR-amplified 
microsatellites  as  markers  in  plant  genetics.  Plant 
Journal  3:175-182. 

Munz,  P.A.  1946.  Aqiiilegia.  The  cultivated  and  wild  col- 
umbines. Gentes  Herbarum  7:1-150. 

Myers,  R.M.,  V.C.  Sheffield,  and  D.R.  Cox.  1988.  Detec- 
tion of  single  base  changes  in  DNA:  Ribonuclease 
cleavage  and  denaturing  gradient  gel  electrophoresis. 
In  K.  Davies,  editor.  Genome  Analysis:  A  Practical 
Approach,  pp.  95-139.  IRL  Press,  Oxford,  England. 

Myers,  R.M.,  V.C.  Sheffield,  and  D.R.  Cox.  1989.  Poly- 
merase chain  reaction  and  denaturing  gradient  gel 
electrophoresis.  In  H.  Erlich  et  al,  editors.  Current 
Communications  in  Molecular  Biology:  Polymerase 
Chain  Reaction,  pp.  177-181.  Cold  Spring  Harbor 
Press,  Cold  Spring  Harbor,  New  York. 

Norman,  J.A.,  C.  Moritz,  and  C.J.  Limpus.  1994.  Mito- 
chondrial DNA  control  region  polymorphisms: 
Genetic  markers  for  ecological  studies  of  marine 
turtles.  Molecular  Ecology  3:363-373. 

Nimney,  L.  1993.  The  influence  of  mating  system  and 
overlapping  generations  on  effective  population  size. 
Evolution  47:1329-1341. 

Rabinowitz,  D.  1981.  Seven  forms  of  rarity.  In  H.  Synge, 
editor.  The  Biological  Aspects  of  Rare  Plant  Conser- 
vation, pp.  205-217.  John  Wiley  and  Sons  Ltd. 

Slatkin,  M.  1985.  Rare  alleles  as  indicators  of  gene  flow. 
Evolution  39:53-65. 

Slatkin,  M.  1993.  Isolation  by  distance  in  equilibrium 
and  non-equilibrium  populations.  Evolution  47:264- 
279. 

Soltis,  D.E.,  P.S.  Soltis,  and  B.D.  Ness.  1989.  Chloroplast- 
DNA  variation  and  multiple  origins  of  autopoly- 
ploidy  in  Heuchera  micrantJm  (Saxifragaceae).  Evo- 
lution 43:650-656. 

Soltis,  D.E.,  P.S.  Soltis,  and  B.G.  Milligan.  1992.  Intra- 
specific  chloroplast  DNA  variation:  Systematic  and 
phylogenetic  implications.  In  P.S.  Soltis,  D.E.  Soltis, 
and  J.J.  Doyle,  editors.  Molecular  Systematics  of 
Plants,  pp.  117-150.  Chapman  and  Hall,  New  York. 


Soltis,  P.S.,  and  D.E.  Soltis.  1987.  Population  structure 
and  estimates  of  gene  flow  in  the  homosporous  fern 
Polystichuni  munihim.  Evolution  41(3) :62(>-629. 

Strand,  A.E.,  and  R.  Wyatt.  1991.  Geographical  variation 
and  biosystematics  of  Leiophyllum  buxifoliiim  (Erica- 
ceae). Systematic  Botany  16:529-545. 

Strand,  A.E.,  B.G.  Milligan,  and  CM.  Pruitt.  1996.  Are 
populations  islands?  Analysis  of  chloroplast  DNA 
variation  in  Aqiiilegia.  Evolution.  In  press. 

Taylor,  R.J.  1967.  Interspecific  hybridization  and  its 
evolutionary  significance  in  the  genus  Aqiiilegia. 
Brittonia  19:374-390. 

Van  Devender,  T.R.  1977.  Holocene  woodlands  in  the 
southwestern  deserts.  Science  198:189-192. 

Van  Devender,  T.R.  1987.  Late  Quaternary  vegetation 
and  climate  of  the  Chihuahuan  Desert,  United  States 
and  Mexico.  In  J.L.  Betancourt,  T.R.  Van  Devender, 
and  P.  S.  Martin,  editors.  Packrat  Middens:  The  Last 
40,000  Years  of  Biotic  Change,  pp.  104-133.  Univer- 
sity of  Arizona  Press,  Tucson,  Arizona. 

Van  Devender,  T.R.,  and  W.G.  Spaulding.  1979.  Devel- 
opment of  vegetation  and  climate  in  the  southwest- 
ern United  States.  Science  204:701-710. 

Weir,  B.S.  1990.  Genetic  Data  Analysis.  Sinauer,  Sunder- 
land, Massachusetts. 

Weir,  B.S.,  and  C.C.  Cockerham.  1984.  Estimating  f- 
statistics  for  the  analysis  of  population  structure. 
Evolution  38:1358-1370. 

White,  M.B.,  M.  Carvalho,  D.  Derse,  S.J.  O'Brien,  and  M. 
Dean.  1992.  Detecting  single  base  substitutions  as 
heteroduplex  polymorphisms.  Genomics  12:301-306. 

Whitlock,  M.C.  1992.  Nonequilibrium  population  struc- 
ture in  forked  fungus  beetles:  Extinction,  coloniza- 
tion, and  the  genetic  variance  among  populations. 
American  Naturalist  139:952-970. 

Wolfe,  K.,  and  P.  Sharp.  1988.  Identitication  of  func- 
tional open  reading  frames  in  chloroplast  genomes. 
Gene  66:215-222. 

Wright,  S.  1951.  The  genetical  structure  of  populations. 
Annals  of  Eugenics  15:323-354. 

Wright,  S.  1978.  Variability  in  and  among  Natural  Popu- 
lations, Vol.  4  of  Evolution  and  the  Genetics  of 
Populations.  University  of  Chicago  Press,  Chicago, 
Illinois. 

Zink,  R.M.,  and  D.L.  Dittmann.  1993.  Gene  flow,  refugia, 
and  evolution  of  geographic  variation  in  the  song 
sparrow  {Melospiza  melodia).  Evolution  47(3) :71 7-729. 


145 


Germination  Requirements  and  Genetic  Diversity  in 

Croton  alabamensis  var.  texensis 

TRACY  HALWARD,^  TIMOTHY  LOWREY,^  KEITH  SCHULZ,!  and  ROBERT  SHAW^ 

'Center  for  Ecological  Management  of  Military  Lands,  Department  of  Forest  Sciences, 
Colorado  State  University,  Fort  Collins  80523 
^Department  of  Biology,  University  of  New  Mexico,  Albuquerque  87131 

Abstract:  Croton  alabamensis  E.A.  Smith  ex  Chapman,  currently  listed  as  a  category  2  species, 
is  being  considered  for  addition  to  the  list  of  endangered  and  threatened  plants  under  the 
Endangered  Species  Act.  While  previously  thought  to  be  restricted  to  two  counties  in  Ala- 
bama, in  1990  a  disjunct  population  w^as  found  at  the  U.S.  Army's  Fort  Hood  in  south-central 
Texas.  Two  additional  populations  have  since  been  located  in  Travis  County,  Texas.  The 
presence  of  the  species  at  Fort  Hood,  the  probability  of  eventual  listing  under  the  ESA,  and 
the  potential  for  disturbance  of  populations  from  military  activity  prompted  us  to  investigate 
the  requirements  for  optimal  germination  and  seedling  establishment.  The  information  ob- 
tained is  being  used  in  the  development  of  a  management  plan  that  will  balance  the  military 
mission  and  compliance  with  ESA  regulations.  We  also  evaluated  genetic  diversity  among 
the  Texas  populations  using  both  isozymes  and  RAPD  markers.  Little  genetic  variation  was 
detected  among  the  Texas  populations. 


Introduction 

Species  Distribution 

Croton  alabamensis  E.A.  Smith  ex  Chapman 
(Euphorbiaceae)  was  described  by  Farmer  and 
Thomas  (1969)  as  "one  of  the  rarest  shrubs  in  the 
United  States."  The  species  is  of  particular  interest 
as  it  combines  narrow  endemism  with  a  disjunct 
distribution.  Until  recently,  the  species  was 
thought  to  be  restricted  to  isolated  populations  in 
Tuscaloosa  and  Bibb  counties,  Alabama  (Aplet  et 
al.  1994).  A  population  was  discovered  in  1990 
growing  at  the  U.S.  Army's  Fort  Hood,  Texas,  by 
John  Cornelius,  a  wildlife  biologist  with  the  Fort 
Hood  Resource  Management  Department.  Two 
additional  populations  were  later  discovered  by 
Chuck  Sexton  in  the  Post  Oak  Ridge  area  of  Travis 
County,  south  of  Fort  Hood.  Ginzbarg  (1992)  con- 
sidered the  Texas  populations  to  be  morpholog- 
ically distinct  enough  to  merit  varietal  status  and 
described  them  as  C.  alabamensis  E.A.  Smith  ex 
Chapman  var.  texensis  Ginzbarg. 

Croton  alabamensis  var.  alabamensis  has  only 
been  reported  from  10  sites  occupying  less  than 
100  acres  (40  ha)  over  approximately  30  square 
miles  (77.7  km^)  along  the  Cahaba  River  valley  in 
Bibb  County  (seven  populations)  and  the  Warrior 
River  valley  (three  populations)  in  Tuscaloosa 
County,  Alabama  (Farmer  and  Thomas  1969).  The 
species  was  collected  once  in  1899  in  Tullahoma, 
Coffee  County,  Tennessee;  however,  there  have 
been  no  subsequent  reports  of  populations  from 
that  area. 


Croton  alabamensis  var.  texensis  has  been 
reported  only  from  Travis,  Coryell,  and  Bell 
counties,  Texas,  with  most  populations  found 
along  the  eastern  edge  of  the  Edwards  Plateau  in 
the  Owl  Creek  Mountains  (Ginzbarg  1992).  The 
known  distribution  is  limited  to  Training  Areas  2 
and  3A  in  Coryell  and  Bell  counties  at  Fort  Hood 
and  to  a  few  square  kilometers  in  northwestern 
Travis  County  (Steed  1993).  Plants  typically  occur 
on  canyon  bottoms  and  slopes  in  mesic  ravines 
characterized  by  moderately  alkaHne,  stony  clay  or 
clay-loam  overlying  Cretaceous  limestone 
(McCaleb  1985,  Werchan  et  al.  1974).  In  contrast  to 
the  Alabama  populations,  which  were  reported  to 
grow  on  shallow-soiled  slopes  (McDaniel  1981), 
Aplet  et  al.  (1994)  found  a  significant  association 
between  the  presence  of  adult  Croton  plants  and 
areas  with  deep  soil.  Aplet  et  al.  (1994)  reported  no 
correlation  between  canopy  gaps  and  presence  or 
absence  of  Croton  with  populations  observed  in 
full  sun,  partial  shade,  and  densely  shaded  areas; 
however.  Steed  (1993)  reported  a  correlation 
between  canopy  cover  and  reproductive  habit.  In 
shady  areas  along  canyon  bottoms,  Croton  forms 
dense  groves  of  apparently  long-lived  adult 
individuals  that  produce  relatively  low  numbers 
of  flowers  and  fruits  and  very  few  seedlings. 
Populations  occurring  in  canopy  gaps,  which 
receive  full  sun  most  of  the  day  and  partial  shade 
the  remainder  of  the  day,  form  less  dense  groves 
of  shorter-lived  individuals  and  produce  consid- 
erably more  flowers  and  fruits  than  those  found  in 


146 


shady  areas.  Isolated  individuals  found  growing 
in  full  sun,  with  no  shade  whatsoever  during  any 
part  of  the  day,  tend  to  be  stunted  and  less  prolific 
reproductively. 

The  Texas  and  Alabama  populations  of  C, 
alabamensis  are  separated  by  more  than  1000  km 
(Figure  1).  The  reason(s)  for  the  disjunction  are 
unknown;  however,  several  possible  explanations 
have  been  proposed,  including  relictual  disjunc- 
tion during  the  Wisconsin  Glaciation  and  relative- 
ly recent  introduction  by  long-distance  dispersal 
during  bird  migration  events  (Ginzbarg  1992).  Al- 
though the  Alabama  populations  were  discovered 
prior  to  the  Texas  populations,  it  is  not  known  for 
certain  which  became  established  "first,"  and 
therefore  in  which  direction  such  long-distance 
dispersal  might  have  occurred. 

Croton  alabamensis  forms  widely  dispersed  but 
locally  dense  populations  that  appear  to  be  in 
overall  good  health.  The  species  is  absent  from 
many  apparently  suitable  sites  near  the  known 
existing  populations.  The  density  of  local  colonies 
suggests  that  the  explosive  dehiscence  of  capsules 
and  vegetative  root  layering  are  the  primary  forms 
of  reproduction  (Ginzbarg  1992).  Both  doves  and 
quail  have  been  observed  eating  Croton  seeds 
(Johnston  1959)  and  it  is  likely  that  the  fruits/ 
seeds  are  eaten  by  other  birds  as  well.  Intact  seeds 
passing  through  the  birds'  digestive  tracts  could 
be  responsible  for  secondary  dispersal  and  the 
establishment  of  new  colonies  (Ginzbarg  1992). 

At  Fort  Hood,  populations  are  concentrated  in 
two  main  canyons,  Croton  Canyon  and  Sycamore 
Canyon,  with  smaller  populations  found  at  several 
widely  dispersed  locations  (Figure  2).  Between  the 
two  main  canyons  lies  a  third  canyon  (Pear 
Canyon)  wherein  Croton  is  nearly  absent,  with  the 
exception  of  a  few  individuals.  The  three  canyons 
are  quite  similar  in  dominant  vegetation,  total 
overstory  and  understory  cover,  mean  steepness 
of  canyon  walls,  watershed  sizes,  and  soil  depth; 
the  only  differences  are  stream  gradient  and 
steepness  of  the  creekbed,  both  of  which  are 
significantly  greater  in  Pear  Canyon  (Aplet  et  al. 
1994).  In  Travis  County,  populations  occur 
primarily  in  deciduous  forest  in  mesic  limestone 
canyons  dominated  by  similar  vegetation  to  that 
found  in  those  canyons  at  Fort  Hood  in  which 
Croton  is  abundant  (Ginzbarg  1992). 

Species  Description 

Croton  alabamensis  var.  texensis  is  a  relatively 
short-lived  (20-30y),  monoecious  shrub,  typically 
less  than  3  m  tall.  Mature  plants  are  multi- 


stemmed,  with  stems  arising  from  a  woody  base  at 
or  just  below  the  soil  level.  Leaves  are  bright  green 
with  silvery  scales  above;  the  undersides  of  the 
leaves  are  covered  with  silvery  scales  dotted  with 
conspicuous  copper  scales  giving  the  plants  a 
distinct  coppery  appearance  during  breezy  con- 
ditions. Flowers  are  inconspicuous  and  bloom  in 
early  spring  from  buds  formed  in  late  spring  of  the 
previous  year  (Figure  3). 

Very  little  is  known  about  the  pollination  or 
reproductive  biology  of  either  variety  of  C.  ala- 
bamensis. The  inflorescence  of  var.  texensis  is  a 
terminal  6-14  flowered  raceme  with  1-6  pistillate 
flowers  near  the  base  and  4-12  staminate  flowers 
above.  The  degree  of  self-pollination  vs.  out- 
crossing has  not  yet  been  determined.  Farmer 
(1962)  suggested  that  var.  alabamensis  is  wind 
pollinated.  In  var.  texensis  beetles  have  been  found 
feeding  on  pollen,  and  pollen  grains  have  been 
observed  adhering  to  the  beetles'  bodies,  suggest- 
ing they  may  play  a  role  in  pollination  (Steed 
1993).  Fruits  consist  of  capsules  with  3^  cells  that 
are  borne  on  pedicels  and  explosively  dehisce  in 
late  May  to  early  June.  Seeds  are  6.7-7.9  mm  long, 
5.2-6.0  mm  wide,  dark  brown  to  almost  black  with 
white  blotches  and  streaks,  and  have  a  yellow 
caruncle  below  a  prominent  white  keel  at  the  point 
of  attachment  (Figure  3). 

Populations  often  form  locally  dense  thickets, 
making  it  difficult  to  distinguish  individual  plants. 
Numerous  instances  of  asexual  reproduction  have 
been  observed  among  the  Texas  populations  in 
which  plants  produce  upright  shoots  through 
nodal  rooting  of  prostrate  branches  (layering), 
which  adds  to  the  difficulty  of  distinguishing  in- 
dividuals. According  to  Farmer  (1962),  no  asexual 
reproduction  had  been  reported  among  plants  of 
var.  alabamensis;  however,  Ginzbarg  observed  root 
layering  in  some  Alabama  populations  (1992). 

Very  little  information  is  available  on  germina- 
tion of  Croton.  An  alternating  temperature  regime 
with  no  pretreatment  has  been  suggested  for 
several  related  species  in  the  Euphorbiaceae,  as 
well  as  in  castorbean  (Ricinus  communis),  which 
has  a  similar  seed  morphology  to  C.  alabamensis 
(Young  and  Young  1986,  AOSA  1993).  Removal  of 
the  caruncle  to  prevent  fungal  infection  during 
germination  has  also  been  suggested  for  castor- 
bean  (AOSA  1993).  Currently,  no  published 
information  is  available  regarding  the  germination 
or  seedling  establishment  requirements  for  either 
variety  of  C.  alabamensis ;  nor  is  there  any  informa- 
tion available  regarding  the  relative  degree  of 
inter-  or  intravarietal  genetic  diversity. 


147 


0) 

c 

.12 

<o 

c 

75 

> 

■ 

• 

148 


149 


5  mm 


a; 


4->  J_j 

u  :^  B  ^ 

•rH      JH      3  C 

PL,  (d  C  o 


150 


Importance  of  Croton  alabamensis 
in  the  Ecosystem 

Many  Croton  species  are  rich  in  various  alka- 
loids and  terpenoids  (Farnsworth  et  al.  1969),  and 
several  species  have  been  utilized  as  sources  of 
medicinal  compounds  (Webster  1993).  At  Fort 
Hood,  many  of  the  populations  occur  in  woodland 
areas  dominated  by  Fraxiniis  texensis  (Gray)  Sarg., 
Quercus  muhlenbergii  Engelm.,  Quercus  texana 
Buckl.,  and  Juniperus  ashei  Buchh.,  which  meet 
essential  habitat  criteria  for  two  rare  birds  found  at 
Fort  Hood,  the  black-capped  vireo  ( Vireo  atricapil- 
la)  and  the  golden-cheeked  warbler  {Dendroica 
chrysoparia)  (Aplet  et  al.  1994).  A  number  of  other 
rare  plant  species  share  the  canyons  occupied  by 
Croton,  although  most  are  also  abundant  in  nearby 
canyons  from  which  Croton  is  absent.  Among 
these  rare  species  is  another  candidate  for  federal 
listing,  the  orchid  Hexalectris  nitida  (Steed  1993). 
The  occurrence  of  several  rare  species  in  these 
canyons  suggests  the  presence  of  unique  micro - 
climate/microhabitat  parameters  and  a  rich 
biological  history.  Due  to  its  limited  distribution, 
C.  alabamensis  is  being  considered  for  listing  under 
the  Endangered  Species  Act  (ESA)  of  1973,  as 
amended.  It  is  currently  designated  as  a  "category 
2  candidate  species"  which  is  defined  as  having 
"evidence  for  vulnerability,  but  ...  there  are  not 
enough  data  to  support  listing  proposals  at  this 
time"  (USD!  1991). 

This  study  was  designed  to  establish  protocols 
for  germination  and  seedling  establishment  for  C. 
alabamensis  var.  texensis.  Thus  far,  our  research 
efforts  have  focused  on  the  Fort  Hood  populations 
as  part  of  the  Department  of  Defense's  Legacy 
Resource  Management  Program,  which  was  estab  - 
lished  to  enhance  the  conservation  of  biologically 
and  culturally  significant  resources  on  military 
lands.  The  results  of  our  research  efforts  are  being 
used  to  develop  conservation  strategies  for  C. 
alabamensis  in  order  to  prevent  listing  of  the 
species  in  accordance  with  ESA  regulations  at  both 
the  federal  and  state  levels. 

Methodology 

Populations  Evaluated  for  Germination 
and  Genetic  Diversity 
To  obtain  an  adequate  sample  of  genetic 
diversity,  seed  capsules  were  collected  from  8  of 
the  10  known  populations  at  Fort  Hood.  No  seeds 
were  collected  from  individuals  in  population  1 
due  to  its  close  proximity  and  similar  habitat  to 
population  2,  and  the  individual  reported  at  Firing 


Point  151  (population  10)  during  a  survey  in  1993 
by  DLS  Associates  could  not  be  located.  The 
number  of  capsules  collected  varied  considerably 
from  population  to  population  due  to  wide 
variation  in  fruiting  among  populations,  ranging 
from  1  for  population  9  to  159  for  population  7.  A 
random  bulk  sample  of  capsules  was  also  collected 
from  the  most  prolific  populations  (1,  2,  3,  and  7) 
for  use  in  preliminary  investigations.  Capsules 
were  dried  in  the  greenhouse  for  one  week,  at 
which  time  all  mature  capsules  had  dehisced  and 
ejected  their  seeds.  Capsules  from  individual 
plants  were  kept  separate  and  individual  drying 
trays  were  covered  with  mosquito  netting  to 
prevent  dehiscing  seeds  from  contaminating  a 
different  container. 

Viability  Analysis 
Seed  viability  was  determined  using  standard 
Tetrazolium  (TZ)  staining  methodology  (ISTA 
1985).  Viability  evaluations  were  conducted  on 
seeds  from  the  bulk  sample.  Embryos  were  ex- 
tracted from  seeds  that  had  been  soaked  in  ddH20 
for  48  hours.  Extracted  embryos  were  placed  in 
0.1%  TZ  and  incubated  at  30°C  for  4  hours,  then 
left  at  room  temperature  overnight. 

Germination  Trials 

Germination  trials  were  conducted  on  seeds 
from  the  bulk  sample  to  preserve  individual  pop- 
ulation collections  for  more  detailed  germination 
and  genetic  studies.  For  all  germination  trials, 
seeds  were  placed  on  top  of  autoclaved  blotters 
moistened  with  distilled  water,  set  within  petri 
dishes  treated  with  95%  EtOH,  and  placed  in 
germination  chambers  with  an  alternating 
temperature  of  30°C  (8  hrs)/20°C  (16  hrs)  and  8 
hours  light/ 16  hours  dark  per  24-hour  period, 
unless  otherwise  indicated.  All  observations  were 
made  over  a  50-day  period. 

Initial  Evaluations:  Two  samples  of  20  intact 
seeds  were  plated  out  with  no  further  treatment. 
The  caruncles  were  removed  from  10  seeds  by 
cutting  with  a  scalpel,  and  10  seeds  were  placed  in 
a  107°C  oven  for  30  min  in  an  attempt  to  melt  the 
wax-like  caruncles.  An  additional  20  seeds  were 
soaked  for  48  hours.  Seed  coats  were  removed 
from  10  of  these,  leaving  the  seeds  intact,  and 
embryos  were  extracted  from  the  remaining  10. 
The  cotyledons  were  clipped  on  half  of  these, 
while  the  others  were  left  intact.  In  addition,  30 
seeds  were  soaked  for  30  min  in  a  1.5%  solution  of 
sodium  hypochlorite  (dilute  bleach)  with  constant 
stirring,  then  rinsed  six  times  in  ddH20.  Of  these. 


151 


15  seeds  were  left  intact  and  the  caruncles  were 
removed  from  the  remaining  15.  Seeds  from  these 
initial  evaluations  that  developed  mold  during 
incubation  were  subsequently  tested  for  viability. 

GAs  Soak:  The  effect  of  gibberellic  acid  (GA3) 
on  germination  was  evaluated,  as  gibberellins  are 
the  family  of  growth  regulators  with  the  broadest 
spectrum  of  activity.  Cytokinins  were  not  evalu- 
ated, as  they  are  less  widely  effective  and  often 
induce  abnormal  germination  (Bewley  and  Black 
1985).  The  caruncles  were  removed  from  30  seeds. 
Of  these,  samples  of  six  seeds  received  the  fol- 
lowing five  treatments:  (1)  left  intact,  (2)  clipped 
on  the  non-radicle  ends,  (3)  seed  coats  removed, 
(4)  cut  in  half  longitudinally,  and  (5)  embryos 
extracted.  All  seeds  and  embryos  were  soaked  for 
24  hours  in  500  ppm  GA3  and  subjected  to  the 
above  germination  conditions. 

GA3-moistened  Blotters:  Seeds  were  subjected  to 
five  treatments:  (1)  left  intact,  (2)  the  caruncles 
removed,  (3)  the  caruncles  removed  and  non- 
radicle  ends  clipped,  (4)  cut  in  half  longitudinally, 
and  (5)  embryos  extracted.  Samples  of  10  seeds 
each  were  placed  on  blotter  papers  moistened 
with  500  ppm  GA3,  and  subjected  to  the  germina- 
tion conditions  described  above.  All  subsequent 
re-wetting  of  the  blotters  during  incubation  was 
with  GA3. 

Prechill:  Thirty  intact  seeds  and  30  seeds  from 
which  the  caruncles  were  removed  were  placed  on 
moistened  blotter  papers  in  covered  petri  dishes 
and  incubated  at  4°C  for  varying  lengths  of  time. 
Samples  of  10  intact  seeds  and  10  seeds  with  the 
caruncles  removed  were  plated  out  after  10  days,  2 
weeks,  and  3  weeks  of  prechilling,  and  were 
subjected  to  the  germination  conditions  described 
above. 

KNO3  and  HCl  Treatments:  For  each  treatment, 
samples  of  10  seeds  each  from  the  following  three 
treatments  were  soaked  in  either  0.2%  KNO3  or 
0.2N  HCl  for  24  hours  and  subjected  to  the  germi- 
nation conditions  described  above:  (1)  left  intact, 
(2)  the  caruncles  removed,  and  (3)  the  caruncles 
removed  and  the  non-radicle  ends  clipped. 

Dark  Treatment:  Samples  of  10  seeds  each  from 
the  following  five  treatments  were  subjected  to  the 
germination  conditions  described  above,  except 
that  petri  dishes  were  placed  in  a  sealed  box  inside 
three  black  plastic  bags  to  prevent  exposure  to 
light:  (1)  left  intact,  (2)  the  caruncles  removed,  (3) 
the  caruncles  removed  and  the  non-radicle  ends 
clipped,  (4)  cut  in  half  longitudinally,  and  (5)  em- 
bryos extracted.  Evaluations  were  conducted  in  a 
photographic  darkroom  using  a  green-wavelength 


safelight.  After  12  days  in  darkness,  petri  dishes 
were  removed  from  the  box  and  returned  to  the 
germinator. 

Boiling:  Ten  intact  seeds  and  10  seeds  from 
which  the  caruncles  were  removed  were  boiled  for 
5  minutes,  cooled  to  room  temperature,  and  sub- 
jected to  the  germination  conditions  described 
above. 

Greenhouse  Evaluations:  Samples  of  10  seeds 
each  from  the  following  three  treatments  were 
planted  in  pots  containing  'Metro  Mix'  soilless 
potting  medium  and  placed  in  the  greenhouse:  (1) 
left  intact,  (2)  the  caruncles  removed,  and  (3)  the 
caruncles  removed  and  the  non-radicle  ends 
clipped.  In  addition,  five  intact  seeds  and  five 
seeds  from  which  the  caruncles  were  removed 
were  planted  in  pots  containing  sterilized  sand 
and  were  placed  in  the  greenhouse. 

After-ripened  Seeds:  The  caruncles  were  re- 
moved from  four  after-ripened  seeds  harvested  in 
1992,  the  only  after-ripened  seeds  available,  and 
were  subjected  to  the  germination  conditions 
described  above. 

Genetic  Diversity  Evaluations 

Isozyme  Ajmlysis:  Leaf  material  from  two  Fort 
Hood  populations  (CI  and  C2)  was  collected, 
placed  on  ice,  and  shipped  overnight  to  the 
electrophoresis  laboratory  in  the  Department  of 
Biology  at  the  University  of  New  Mexico.  CI 
consisted  of  18  individuals  collected  from  popu- 
lations 2  and  3  in  Croton  Canyon;  C2  consisted  of 
19  individuals  collected  from  population  7  in 
Sycamore  Canyon.  Standard  methodologies  for 
starch  gel  electrophoresis  were  employed  in  the 
study.  Fresh  leaf  tissue  was  ground  in  cold  Tris- 
HCl  extraction  buffer  according  to  the  procedures 
of  Soltis  et  al.  (1983)  and  the  supernatant  was  ab- 
sorbed onto  filter  paper  wicks  that  were  inserted 
into  12%  starch  gels.  Nine  enzyme  systems  were 
resolved  for  each  population  (AAT,  ADH,  ALD, 
G6PDH,  6PGD,  PGI,  PGM,  SDH,  and  TPI).  Enzy- 
matic assays  followed  the  procedures  of  Soltis  et 
al.  (1983),  except  for  ADH  which  was  assayed 
according  to  the  procedures  of  Wendel  and 
Weeden  (1989).  Genetic  diversity  statistics  were 
generated  based  on  Rogers's  (1972)  genetic  dis- 
tance estimates. 

RAPD  A7^alysis:  The  same  individuals  evalu- 
ated for  isozyme  diversity  were  evaluated  for 
genetic  diversity  using  RAPD  (Random  Amplified 
Polymorphic  DNA)  analysis.  DNA  was  extracted 
from  leaf  tissues  according  to  T.  Lowrey  (unpub- 
lished, see  Appendix  A).  DNA  concentrations 


152 


were  determined  using  a  fluorometer  and  were 
stored  at  -20°C.  For  RAPD  analysis,  a  25 
reaction  mixture  was  prepared  according  to  the 
procedures  of  T.  Lowrey  (unpublished,  see 
Appendix  A).  The  thermal  cycler  program  used 
was  as  follows:  (1)  3  min  @  94°C;  (2)  45  cycles 
consisting  of  1  min  @  94°C  (denaturing),  1  min  @ 
38°C  (annealing),  30  sec  @  54°C  (annealing),  and  2 
min  @  72°C  (elongation);  (3)  15  min  @  72°C;  and 
(4)  soak  @  4°C.  Four  jiL  gel  loading  dye  was  added 
to  each  reaction  and  centrifuged  for  2-3  seconds. 
Each  reaction  plus  loading  dye  was  loaded  onto 
1.4%  agarose  gels  prepared  with  IX  TAE  (Tris, 
NaOAc,  EDTA)  buffer.  A  molecular  weight 
marker  (100  bp  ladder)  was  loaded  into  at  least 
one  well  of  the  gel  for  band  size  comparisons.  Gels 
were  electrophoresed  for  5  hours  at  120  milliamps, 
stained  with  ethidium  bromide  for  20  min,  de- 
stained  with  distilled  water  for  1  hour,  and  pho- 
tographed under  UV  light.  A  total  of  70  random 
primers  were  evaluated.  No  genetic  diversity 
statistics  were  calculated  for  the  RAPD  data,  as  the 
analyses  are  considered  preliminary.  More  exten- 
sive investigations  are  currently  underway. 

Results 
Viability  Analysis 
All  extracted  embryos  stained  normally  except 
in  those  areas  that  had  sustained  damage  during 
the  extraction  process,  indicating  virtually  100  per- 
cent viabiUty  among  the  seeds  evaluated. 

Germination  Trials 

Initial  Evalmtions:  Attempts  at  germination  of 
seeds  with  the  seed  coats  intact  resulted  in  100 
percent  of  the  seeds  succumbing  to  fungal  infec- 
tion within  48  hours.  Fungal  growth  typically 
began  at  the  caruncle,  eventually  covering  the 
entire  seed.  Seeds  from  which  the  caruncles  were 
removed  by  cutting,  as  well  as  intact  seeds 
incubated  at  107°C  for  30  min,  also  developed 
fungal  infections;  however,  onset  was  delayed  to 
between  48  hours  and  2  weeks.  Fungal  contami- 
nation among  seeds  from  which  the  caruncles 
were  removed  was  minimal.  None  of  the  individ- 
uals from  which  the  seed  coats  were  removed  had 
germinated  or  become  infected  with  fungus  when 
the  trial  was  terminated  after  50  days  of  incuba- 
tion. In  all  of  the  extracted  embryos,  the  cotyledon 
next  to  the  blotter  turned  green  within  5  days. 
When  these  were  inverted,  the  formerly  upper 
cotyledons  turned  green  within  2  weeks.  The 
cotyledons  expanded  and  appeared  to  be  devel- 
oping normally;  however,  no  radicle  development 


was  observed  after  50  days  in  the  germinator. 
None  of  the  embryos  became  contaminated  with 
fungal  or  bacterial  infections  during  the  duration 
of  the  study.  Fungal  and  bacterial  infections  were 
reduced  by  approximately  70  and  80  percent, 
respectively,  among  seeds  treated  with  sodium 
hypochlorite,  and  onset  of  infection  was  delayed 
to  between  1  and  2  weeks;  however,  no  germina- 
tion was  observed  among  any  of  the  treated  seeds 
during  the  50-day  observation  period. 

GA3  Soak:  All  seeds  that  were  soaked  over- 
night in  500  ppm  GA3  showed  extensive  damage, 
regardless  of  pretreatment.  All  exposed  regions 
turned  brown  and  necrotic.  All  seeds  from  which 
the  caruncles  were  removed,  with  no  further 
treatment,  developed  bacterial  infections  within  2 
weeks;  none  had  germinated  after  50  days.  Among 
seeds  in  which  the  non-radicle  ends  were  clipped 
in  addition  to  removing  the  caruncles,  50  percent 
developed  bacterial  infections  and  none  had 
germinated  after  50  days.  All  seeds  from  which  the 
seed  coats  were  removed  became  severely  necrotic 
and  failed  to  germinate,  but  showed  no  signs  of 
microbial  contamination.  After  1  week  in  the 
germinator,  a  radicle  emerged  from  one  of  the 
seeds  that  had  been  cut  in  half  longitudinally;  after 
50  days,  none  of  the  others  showed  signs  of  germi- 
nation or  microbial  contamination.  The  seed  from 
which  the  radicle  emerged  subsequently  devel- 
oped a  bacterial  infection,  which  caused  the  seed 
coat  to  deteriorate  into  a  thin  shell  and  eventually 
rupture.  Surprisingly,  within  this  ruptured  seed 
coat,  cotyledons  were  developing.  The  "seedling" 
was  transferred  to  a  pot  containing  soilless  potting 
medium  and  placed  in  the  greenhouse.  The 
"seedling"  failed  to  develop  any  further  and  died 
within  a  week  of  transplanting.  All  extracted 
embryos  became  severely  necrotic,  the  cotyledons 
failed  to  turn  green,  and  no  further  growth  or 
development  was  observed  during  the  50-day 
observation  period. 

GAymoistened  Blotters:  For  all  seeds  evaluated, 
regardless  of  pre-treatment,  areas  in  contact  with 
GA3-moistened  blotters  turned  brown  and  necrot- 
ic. Seven  of  the  10  intact  seeds  developed  fungal 
infections  and  none  had  germinated  after  50  days. 
Among  seeds  with  the  caruncles  removed,  one 
developed  fungal  infection  and  two  became 
infected  with  bacteria;  none  had  germinated  after 
50  days.  Of  the  seeds  in  which  the  non-radicle 
ends  and  caruncles  were  removed,  seven  showed 
no  signs  of  contamination  or  germination,  two 
developed  fungal  infections  and  failed  to  germi- 
nate, and  one  became  infected  with  bacteria  after 


153 


which  a  radicle  emerged,  the  seed  coat  deterio- 
rated and  ruptured,  and  the  "seedUng"  was 
transplanted  into  soilless  potting  medium  in  the 
greenhouse  where  it  subsequently  died.  Among 
seeds  cut  in  half  longitudinally,  a  radicle  emerged 
from  one  seed;  however,  it  subsequently  became 
necrotic  and  no  further  development  was  ob- 
served. Of  the  remaining  nine  seeds,  two  became 
infected  with  bacteria  and  one  developed  a  fungal 
infection;  none  of  these  showed  signs  of  germina- 
tion after  50  days.  All  extracted  embryos  exposed 
to  GAs-moistened  blotters  turned  green  within  2 
weeks;  however,  the  radicles  failed  to  develop. 

Prechill:  Fifty  percent  of  intact  seeds  developed 
fungal  infections  within  1  week  and  100  percent 
became  infected  within  2  weeks  during  incubation 
at  4°C.  None  of  the  seeds  from  which  the  caruncles 
were  removed  succumbed  to  infection  during 
incubation  at  4°C.  All  seeds,  both  intact  seeds  and 
seeds  from  which  the  caruncles  had  been  removed 
(which  were  plated  out  after  10  days,  2  weeks,  and 
3  weeks  of  prechill),  developed  fungal  infections 
within  1  week  of  being  transferred  to  the  germina- 
tor.  A  radicle  emerged  from  one  seed  that  had 
been  prechilled  for  3  weeks;  however,  no  further 
development  was  observed  at  the  end  of  50  days. 

KNOs  Treatment:  All  intact  seeds  and  three 
seeds  from  which  the  caruncles  were  removed 
developed  fungal  infections  within  1  week.  Two 
seeds  with  clipped  non-radicle  ends  and  caruncles 
removed  also  succumbed  to  fungal  infection.  No 
other  development  or  contamination  was  observed 
after  50  days. 

HCl  Treatment:  Regardless  of  pre-treatment,  all 
seeds  developed  fungal  patches  on  the  seed  coats 
within  1  week.  The  fungus  was  of  a  different  type 
than  previously  observed,  forming  green  patches 
on  the  seed  coats  without  affecting  the  caruncles. 
All  intact  seeds  also  developed  the  typical  fungal 
infection  initiated  in  the  caruncle  region  within  2 
weeks  of  incubation  in  the  germinator.  No  other 
contamination  was  observed  and  none  of  the  seeds 
had  germinated  after  50  days. 

Dark  Treatment:  When  seeds  were  removed 
from  the  box  after  12  days  of  darkness,  no  signs  of 
germination  were  apparent,  regardless  of  pre- 
treatment.  One  of  the  intact  seeds  had  become 
infected  with  fungus,  while  n&  other  fungal 
contamination  was  present  on  any  of  the  seeds, 
regardless  of  pre-treatment.  Extracted  embryos 
were  white  with  no  growth  or  contamination 
having  taken  place  during  the  12  days  of  exposure 
to  darkness.  Upon  exposure  to  light,  all  intact 
seeds  developed  fungal  infections  within  48  hours. 


None  of  the  seeds  from  which  the  caruncles  were 
removed,  neither  clipped  nor  undipped,  had 
developed  microbial  infections  after  50  days. 
Among  seeds  cut  in  half  longitudinally,  one 
developed  a  fungal  infection  and  two  developed 
bacterial  infections.  None  of  the  dark-exposed 
seeds  had  germinated  after  50  days.  Three  of  the 
extracted  embryos  turned  green  within  1  week  of 
exposure  to  light,  while  the  others  remained 
white.  Radicles  of  all  extracted  embryos  became 
necrotic  and  failed  to  develop. 

Boiling:  None  of  the  seeds  subjected  to  boiling 
developed  microbial  infections  and  none  showed 
signs  of  germination  at  the  end  of  the  50-day  ob- 
servation period. 

Greenhouse  Evaluations:  None  of  the  seeds 
planted  in  the  greenhouse  germinated  after  50 
days,  regardless  of  treatment  or  planting  medium. 

After-ripened  Seeds:  After  50  days  in  the  germi- 
nator, none  of  the  after-ripened  seeds  had  germi- 
nated. Three  of  the  four  had  become  slightly  con- 
taminated with  fungal  growth  of  a  different  type 
than  that  noted  on  any  of  the  freshly  harvested 
seeds  evaluated.  Embryos  were  extracted  from  all 
four  seeds.  One  of  the  embryos,  along  with  the 
endosperm,  was  rotten;  however,  the  other  three 
embryos  were  tested  for  viability.  All  three  of  the 
embryos  stained  normally,  indicating  that  the 
seeds  were  viable  despite  their  failure  to  germinate 
after  50  days  of  incubation  in  the  germinator. 

Genetic  Diversity  Evaluations 

Isozyme  Analysis:  For  the  nine  enzyme  systems 
assayed,  11  putative  loci  were  resolved  and  scored 
for  variation.  Six  (AAT-1,  ADH,  G6PDH-1,  6PGD- 
1,  SDH  and  TPI)  were  monomorphic  in  both  pop- 
ulations. Three  loci  (6PGD-2,  PGI  and  PGM-2) 
were  polymorphic  in  one  population  (CI),  while 
two  (ALD  and  G6PDH-2)  were  polymorphic  in 
both  populations.  Only  one  locus  was  observed  for 
both  PGI  and  TPI,  although  the  number  of  iso- 
zymes normally  present  in  diploids  is  two  for  both 
of  these  enzyme  systems  (Wendel  and  Weeden 
1989).  The  mean  number  of  alleles  per  locus  was 
1.45  and  1.18  for  populations  CI  and  C2,  respec- 
tively. This  difference  corresponds  with  the 
percent  polymorphic  loci  in  the  two  populations 
(0.45  for  CI  vs.  0.18  for  C2).  The  mean  number  of 
alleles  per  polymorphic  locus  was  two  for  both 
populations,  and  no  loci  with  greater  than  two 
alleles  were  observed  for  either  population.  The 
expected  heterozygosity  (H)  was  less  in  popula- 
tion C2  (0.05)  than  in  population  CI  (0.08).  Gene 
diversity  statistics  were  calculated  and  then  aver- 


154 


aged  over  all  loci.  The  total  gene  diversity  (HT  = 
0.066)  was  nearly  identical  to  the  gene  diversity 
within  populations  (HS  =  0.067).  The  proportion  of 
total  gene  diversity  (Gst)  found  among  popula- 
tions was  1.2  percent. 

RAPD  Analysis:  Of  the  70  primers  evaluated, 
28  showed  clear,  repeatable  banding  patterns.  Six- 
teen (57%)  of  these  were  polymorphic  in  at  least 
one  of  the  populations. 

Discussion 
Population  Distributions 

The  reported  distributions  of  both  varieties  of 
C.  alabamensis  are  controversial.  Various  investi- 
gators have  defined  both  population  densities  and 
distribution  ranges  using  different  sets  of  criteria, 
and  several  populations  have  been  observed  by 
some  investigators,  but  not  others  (Farmer  1962, 
Farmer  and  Thomas  1969,  Ginzbarg  1992,  Steed 
1993,  Aplet  et  al.  1994,  J.  Cornelius,  M.  Falkner, 
and  C.  Sexton,  personal  communication).  Despite 
these  controversies,  one  interesting  observation 
agreed  upon  by  all  investigators  is  the  fact  that  C. 
alabamensis  is  restricted  to  relatively  few  locations, 
yet  it  is  quite  abundant  and  populations  appear 
healthy  in  those  few  niches  in  which  it  occurs. 

Populations  in  Texas  occur  in  mesic  areas  with 
apparently  suitable  habitat  for  bigtooth  maple 
{Acer  grandidentata);  however,  there  is  only  one 
known  canyon  at  Fort  Flood  where  the  two  species 
occur  together.  The  Croton  population  in  this  can- 
yon is  quite  small  and  appears  to  be  in  reproduc- 
tive decline.  Several  theories  have  been  proposed 
to  explain  this  phenomenon  including  differences 
in  shade  tolerance,  microclimate  differences 
among  canyons,  and  rare  fire  or  drought  events 
(Steed  1993,  Aplet  et  al.  1994).  The  absence  of 
Croton  from  both  the  drier  westernmost  canyons 
and  from  the  easternmost  mesic  canyons  in  which 
maple  is  abundant,  along  with  the  presence  of 
Croton  and  absence  of  maple  in  the  intermediate 
canyons  in  between,  has  been  speculated  to  be  due 
to  the  interplay  between  fire  (and/ or  drought)  and 
competition  with  more  adapted  mesic  species  such 
as  maple  (Steed  1993).  Such  interactions  would 
restrict  Croton  growth  to  those  areas  in  which 
these  two  opposing  forces  balance  each  other  to 
form  a  stable  intermediate  zone  that  is  not  too  dry 
or  too  frequently  burned,  yet  not  quite  mesic 
enough  to  support  competing  species  (Steed  1993). 

Viability  A^wlysis 
Despite  the  difficulty  with  which  seeds  were 
prompted  to  germinate  in  growth  chambers  and 


failure  of  the  seeds  to  germinate  under  greenhouse 
conditions,  Tetrazolium  staining  of  extracted 
embryos  indicated  virtually  100  percent  viability 
among  seeds  evaluated,  including  those  that 
developed  fungal  infections  during  incubation  and 
were  subsequently  tested  for  viability.  This  sug- 
gests a  mechanical  barrier  to  germination,  such  as 
possible  interference  with  imbibition  or  the  pres- 
ence of  germination  inhibitors  in  the  seed  coat. 

Germination  Trials 

Although  the  results  of  the  germination  trials 
are  considered  preliminary,  they  suggest  a  poten- 
tial need  for  fungal  and /or  bacterial  infection  of 
the  seed  to  stimulate  germination.  Microbial 
attacks,  as  well  as  abrasion  by  soil  particles,  are 
considered  important  in  the  softening  of  hard  seed 
coats,  especially  those  that  are  impermeable  to 
water,  and  may  affect  control  of  germination 
(Bewley  and  Black  1985).  Perhaps  the  microclimate 
is  not  suitable  for  the  appropriate  microorgan- 
ism(s)  necessary  to  stimulate  germination  in 
Croton  within  those  canyons  in  which  the  species 
is  absent.  In  addition,  the  microorganism(s)  may 
be  very  sensitive  to  environmental  conditions;  this 
could  further  explain,  along  with  low  shade  toler- 
ance among  seedlings,  the  limited  seedling  pro- 
duction observed  in  shady  canyons  where  Croton 
is  abundant. 

Genetic  Diversity  Among  and  Within  Populations 

In  a  recent  summary  of  allozyme  variation  in 
plant  species,  Hamrick  and  Godt  (1989)  found  that 
geographic  range  accounted  for  the  largest 
amount  of  genetic  variation  in  both  population 
and  species  level  statistics.  Taxa  with  narrow 
ranges  often  have  less  genetic  variation  than  taxa 
with  regional  or  widespread  distributions  (Karron 
et  al.  1988).  Our  preliminary  investigations  on 
limited  material  of  C.  alabamensis  revealed  very 
low  levels  of  allozyme  variation  compared  to  most 
other  seed  taxa  analyzed  (Hamrick  and  Godt 
1989).  The  mean  number  of  alleles  per  locus  for 
population  CI  is  identical  to  the  mean  value  for 
taxa  with  narrow  ranges  as  reported  by  Hamrick 
and  Godt  (1989)  and  is  slightly  higher  than  that 
reported  for  endemic  species.  However,  in  popu- 
lation C2  the  mean  number  of  alleles  per  locus  is 
lower  than  the  mean  value  for  endemic  species, 
1.39,  reported  by  Hamrick  and  Godt  (1989).  The 
differences  observed  between  populations  CI  and 
C2  are  not  unexpected,  considering  that  the  indi- 
viduals comprising  population  CI  were  collected 
over  a  slightly  larger,  more  diverse  habitat  range 


155 


than  those  comprising  population  C2.  The  values 
for  expected  heterozygosity  for  both  populations 
are  similar  to  the  mean  reported  for  endemic  taxa, 
0.063  (Hamrick  and  Godt  1989).  The  gene  diversity 
statistics  indicate  very  little  differentiation  be- 
tween the  populations,  as  evidenced  by  the  low 
Gst  value  of  1.2  percent  for  the  total  gene  diversity 
occurring  between  populations.  This  is  reflected  in 
the  nearly  identical  values  obtained  for  total 
genetic  diversity  and  genetic  diversity  within 
populations,  indicating  a  high  degree  of  homozy- 
gosity within  populations  and  very  little  inter- 
population  genetic  differentiation.  The  levels  of 
polymorphism  detected  in  the  RAPD  analyses 
were  similar  to  those  observed  in  the  isozyme 
analyses.  Although  the  genetic  diversity  data 
should  be  considered  quite  preliminary,  and  was 
obtained  from  a  relatively  small  sample  of  individ- 
uals, the  results  support  the  theory  of  a  relatively 
recent  establishment  of  the  Texas  populations 
from  a  limited  number  of  genetically  similar 
founders.  The  lack  of  significant  genetic  differenti- 
ation between  the  populations  due  to  drift  further 
argues  for  recent  establishment  of  the  populations. 
We  are  currently  evaluating  genetic  diversity 
among  and  within  a  wider  range  of  Texas  popu- 
lations, as  well  as  obtaining  estimates  of  genetic 
diversity  between  the  Alabama  and  Texas  popula- 
tions. These  investigations  should  allow  for  the 
determination  of  the  direction  of  population 
dispersal,  as  well  as  verify  the  merit  of  varietal 
status  assigned  to  the  Texas  populations.  Such 
information  is  important  when  determining  popu- 
lation sizes  in  making  decisions  regarding  listing 
the  species  in  accordance  with  ESA  regulations. 

Summary 

Croton  alahamensis  has  an  interesting  life  his- 
tory, being  restricted  to  relatively  few  locations, 
yet  forming  abundant,  healthy  populations  in 
those  areas.  The  natural  dormancy  period  of  the 
seed,  which  prevents  germination  during  the  dry, 
hot  summers  in  the  regions  of  Texas  and  Alabama 
to  which  it  is  endemic,  along  with  our  observa- 
tions that  germination  could  only  be  stimulated  in 
seeds  following  bacterial  and /or  fungal  infection, 
suggests  a  possible  role  for  microbial  breakdown 
of  the  seed  coat  for  germination  to  occur  in  the 
field.  Such  a  potentially  symbiotic  relationship, 
with  microorganisms  being  sustained  in  the 
caruncles  of  the  seeds,  could  be  responsible  for 
maintaining  seed  dormancy.  With  the  onset  of 
spring  rains,  the  increased  soil  moisture  levels 


could  stimulate  microbial  activity  in  the  caruncle 
region,  ultimately  leading  to  a  breakdown  of  the 
seed  coat,  allowing  germination  to  occur.  The 
relationship  could  also  explain  the  absence  of 
Croton  from  apparently  suitable  habitats,  if  the 
microenvironment  was  not  conducive  to  survival 
of  the  appropriate  microorganism(s)  needed  to 
stimulate  germination.  Future  research  is  needed 
to  determine  which  fungal  and /or  bacterial 
organism(s)  is /are  necessary  for  germination,  as 
well  as  to  determine  the  microbial  composition  of 
the  soils  both  in  canyons  where  Croton  is  present 
and  where  it  is  absent.  Such  information  is  critical 
to  obtain,  since  determining  the  optimal  condi- 
tions for  germination  and  seedling  establishment 
are  the  first  steps  in  the  development  of  effective 
conservation  and  management  plans. 

Acknowledgments 

Special  thanks  go  to  Dennis  Herbert,  B.R. 
Jones,  and  John  Cornelius,  Division  of  Wildlife, 
Fort  Hood,  Texas,  for  their  assistance  and  support 
during  field  collections;  to  Dixie  Daniels,  Depart- 
ment of  Biology,  University  of  New  Mexico,  for 
conducting  the  isozyme  and  preliminary  RAPD 
analyses;  to  Julie  Laufmann,  USD  A  National  Seed 
Storage  Laboratory,  Fort  Collins,  Colorado,  for  her 
assistance  and  encouragement  during  the  germi- 
nation trials;  and  to  Tracy  Wager  for  providing  the 
botanical  illustrations,  as  well  as  for  preparing 
graphics  for  the  slide  presentation.  Funding  was 
provided  by  the  USDA  Forest  Service,  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station; 
and  the  Department  of  Defense  Legacy  Resource 
Management  Program. 

Literature  Cited 

AOSA  (Association  of  Official  Seed  Analysts).  1993. 
Rules  for  testing  seeds.  Journal  of  Seed  Technology 
16(3):1-113. 

Aplet,  G.H.,  R.D.  Laven,  M.B.  Falkner,  and  R.B.  Shaw. 

1994.  Population  and  site  characteristics  of  a  recently 

discovered  disjunct  population  of  Croton  alahamensis 

(Euphorbiaceae).  Sida  16(l):37-55. 
Bewley,  J.D.  and  M.  Black.  1985.  Seeds:  Physiology  of 

Development  and  Germination.  Plenum  Press,  New 

York. 

Farmer,  J.A.  1962.  An  ecological  life  history  of  Croton 
alahamensis  E.A.  Smith  ex  Chapman.  Unpublished 
Ph.D.  dissertation.  University  of  Alabama. 

Farmer,  J. A.,  and  J.L.  Thomas.  1969.  Disjunction  and 
endemism  in  Croton  alahamensis.  Rhodora  71:94-103. 

Farnsworth,  N.R.,  R.N.  Blomster,  and  W.M.  Messmer. 
1969.  A  phytochemical  and  biological  review  of  the 
genus  Croton.  Lloydia  32:1-28. 


156 


Ginzbarg,  S.  1992.  A  new  disjunct  variety  of  Croton 
alabametisis  (Euphorbiaceae)  from  Texas.  Sida 
15(l):41-52. 

Hamrick,  J.L.,  and  M.J.W.  Godt.  1989.  Allozyme 
diversity  in  plants.  In  A.H.D.  Brown,  M.T.  Clegg, 
A.L.  Kahler,  and  B.S.  Weir,  editors.  Plant  Population 
Genetics,  Breeding,  and  Genetic  Resources,  pp.  43- 
63.  Sinauer  Press,  Sunderland,  MA. 

ISTA  (International  Seed  Testing  Association).  1985. 
Handbook  on  Tetrazolium  Testing.  ISTA,  Zurich, 
Switzerland,  99  pp. 

Johnston,  M.C.  1959.  The  Texas  species  of  Croton.  South- 
west Naturalist  3:175-203. 

Karron,  J.D.,  Y.B.  Linhart,  C.A.  Chaulk,  and  C.A.  Robert- 
son. 1988.  Genetic  structure  of  populations  of  geo- 
graphically restricted  and  wide-spread  species  of 
Astragalus  (Fabaceae).  American  Journal  of  Botany 
75:1114-1119. 

McCaleb,  N.L.  1985.  Soil  Survey  of  Coryell  County, 
Texas.  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Soil 
Conservation  Service.  United  States  Government 
Printing  Office.  Washington,  D.C. 

McDaniel,  S.  1981.  Status  report  on  Croton  alabamensis . 
Submitted  to  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Endangered  Species  Office,  Region  4,  Atlanta,  GA. 

Rogers,  J.S.  1972.  Measures  of  genetic  similarity  and 
genetic  distance.  Studies  in  genetics  VII.  University 
of  Texas  publication  7213:145-153. 

Soltis,  D.E.,  C.H.  Haufler,  D.C.  Darrow,  and  G.J.  Gas- 
tony.  1983.  Starch  gel  electrophoresis  of  ferns:  A 
compilation  of  grinding  buffers,  gel  and  electrode 
buffers,  and  staining  schedules.  American  Fern 
Journal  73:9-27. 

Steed,  D.L.  1993.  Draft  report  on  Texabama  Croton 
investigations.  Fort  Hood,  Coryell  and  Bell  counties, 
Texas.  Submitted  by  DLS  Associates  to  the  Director- 
ate of  Engineering  and  Housing  Resource  Manage- 
ment, Fort  Hood,  Texas,  31  pp. 

USDI  (United  States  Department  of  the  Interior).  1991. 
Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and  plants: 
Review  of  plant  taxa  for  listing  as  endangered  or 
threatened  species;  notice  of  review.  50  CFR  Part  17. 
Federal  Register. 

Webster,  G.L.  1993.  A  provisional  synopsis  of  the  sec- 
tions of  the  genus  Croton  (Euphorbiaceae).  Taxon 
42:793-823. 

Wendel,  J.F,  and  N.F.  Weeden.  1989.  Visualization  and 
interpretation  of  plant  isozymes.  In  D.  Soltis  and  P. 
Soltis,  editors.  Isozymes  in  Plant  Biology,  pp.  5-45. 
Dioscorides  Press,  Portland,  OR. 

Werchan,  L.A.,  A.  Lowther,  and  R.  Ramsey.  1974.  Soil 
Survey  of  Travis  County,  Texas.  United  States  De- 
partment of  Agriculture,  Soil  Conservation  Service, 
in  cooperation  with  the  Texas  Agricultural  Experi- 
ment Station.  Washington,  D.C. 

Young,  J.A.,  and  C.G.  Young.  1986.  Collecting,  Proces- 
sing, and  Germinating  Seeds  of  Wildland  Plants. 
Timber  Press.  Portland,  OR. 


Appendix  A 

DNA  Extraction  Procedure  Used  in 
Genetic  Diversity  Evaluations 

Leaf  material  w^as  ground  with  a  mortar  and 
pestle  in  CTAB  extraction  buffer  containing  1%  2- 
mercaptoethanol,  incubated  for  1-3  hr  at  60°C, 
then  allowed  to  cool  to  room  temperature.  After 
centrifugation  for  5  min,  the  aqueous  layer  was 
removed  and  transferred  to  a  clean  tube  to  which 
an  equal  volume  of  chloroform /octanol  (24:1)  was 
added.  Tubes  were  inverted  briskly  for  2-3  min 
followed  by  centrifugation  for  7  min.  The  aqueous 
layer  was  removed  and  transferred  to  a  clean  tube. 
The  chloroform/ octanol  extraction  process  was 
repeated  two  additional  times.  One  \xL  RNAase 
(10  mg/mL)  per  mL  of  volume  was  added  to  the 
reaction  and  allowed  to  digest  at  37°C  for  30  min. 
An  equal  volume  of  ice-cold  (-20°C)  isopropanol 
was  added  to  the  tube,  which  was  gently  rocked 
until  the  DNA  precipitated.  The  solution  was  then 
centrifuged  for  5  min  and  the  supernatant  dis- 
carded. The  DNA  was  then  placed  in  a  mixture  of 
500  ^iL  of  76%  EtOH/0.2  M  Na  acetate  and  left  at 
room  temperature  for  10  min.  The  DNA  pellet  was 
transferred  to  a  clean  tube  and  allowed  to  dry 
completely  at  room  temperature,  then  resus- 
pended  in  50-200  TE  (0.01  M  Tris/0.001  M 
EDTA,  pH  8.0),  depending  on  the  size  of  the  pellet. 

Preparation  of  Reaction  Mixture 
Used  for  RAPD  Analysis 

A  25  |iL  reaction  mixture  was  prepared  by 
adding  18  \iL  sterile  ddH20,  5  j^iL  Master  Mix  (500 
|iL  lOX  Reaction  Buffer  supplied  by  Boehringer 
Mannheim,  50  |iL  each  10  mM  dATP,  10  mM 
dCTP,  10  mM  dGTP,  and  10  mM  dTTP,  299  |iL 
ddH20,  and  1.25  |iL  IM  MgCl2),  0.1  |iL  (0.5  unit) 
Taq  DNA  polymerase,  1  |iL  (5  picamoles)  Primer 
(supplied  by  Operon),  and  1  |iL  extracted  genomic 
DNA  (20-100  ng)  to  a  sterile  0.6  mL  microcentri- 
fuge tube.  The  mixture  was  gently  vortexed  and 
centrifuged  for  2-3  seconds  to  collect  the  mixture 
at  the  bottom  of  the  tube.  The  reaction  mixture 
was  covered  with  50  |J.L  electrophoresis  grade 
mineral  oil  and  tubes  were  placed  in  the  DNA 
thermal  cycler  wells  to  which  a  drop  of  mineral  oil 
had  been  added. 

Both  appendices  are  from  Timothy  Lowrey,  De- 
partment of  Biology,  University  of  New  Mexico 
(unpublished). 


157 


Pollinator  Lost?  Reproduction  by  the  Enigmatic  Jones  Cycladenia, 

Cycladenia  humilis  var.  jonesii  (Apocynaceae) 

SEDONIA  D.  SlPESl  and  VINCENT  J.  TEPEDINO^ 

^Department  of  Biology,  Utah  State  University,  Logan,  Utah  84322-5305 
^USDA/ARS  Bee  Biology  and  Systematics  Laboratory,  Utah  State  University,  Logan,  Utah,  84322-5310 

Abstract:  We  studied  the  pollination  and  reproduction  of  the  rare  Jones  cycladenia  {Cycladenia 
humilis  Benth.  var.  jonesii  (Eastw.)  Welsh  &  Atwood.  Preliminary  evidence  suggests  that  Jones 
cycladenia  is  self-compatible,  although  it  requires  a  pollen  vector.  Fruit  production  was  lov^ 
under  both  hand-pollinated  and  natural  conditions,  and  in  both  cases,  we  observed  frequent 
fruit  abortion.  The  reasons  for  low  fruit  set  are  presently  unclear.  Insect  visitors  to  Jones 
cycladenia  flowers  were  uncommon,  and  varied  greatly  among  years.  The  paucity  of  polli- 
nators suggests  pollinator-limited  fruit  production.  Conversely,  the  frequent  abortion  of  fruit, 
and  a  decrease  in  fruit  set  over  the  flowering  season,  suggests  that  resources  may  limit  fruit 
production.  However,  water  emendation  did  not  increase  fruit  set.  Excessive  inbreeding 
appears  to  be  ruled  out  by  a  companion  study  of  the  population  genetics  and  clonal  structure 
of  Jones  cycladenia.  It  may  be  that  the  original  pollinator  of  Jones  cycladenia  has  become  dis- 
sociated from  its  host,  or  that  pollinator  visits  and  fruit  production  are  episodic. 


Introduction 

The  federally  listed  Jones  cycladenia,  Cycla- 
denia humilis  Benth.  var.  jonesii  (Eastw.)  Welsh  & 
Atwood  (Apocynaceae),  is  a  rare  desert  wildflower 
endemic  to  the  Colorado  Plateau.  The  taxon  ap- 
pears to  be  edaphically  restricted,  occurring  only 
on  certain  members  of  the  Summerville,  Chinle, 
and  Cutler  formations  in  southern  Utah  and 
northern  Arizona  (Sipes  et  al.  1994,  Welsh  et  al. 
1987).  Currently,  the  main  threat  to  its  existence  is 
degradation  of  its  habitat  by  bicycles  and  off-road 
vehicles  (Sipes  et  al.  1994).  Potential  threats  in- 
clude mining  impacts  if  such  activities  resume; 
most  of  the  geologic  members  in  which  Jones 
cycladenia  occurs  have  historically  been  mined  for 
uranium. 

Jones  cycladenia  is  a  perennial  of  unknown 
longevity  that  appears  to  persist  mainly  by  the 
spreading  of  rhizomes.  Although  it  flowers  from 
April  through  June,  sexual  reproduction  appears 
to  be  infrequent,  based  on  our  observations  over  4 
years  of  low  fruit  set  and  lack  of  seedlings  (Sipes 
and  Tepedino,  unpublished  data). 

Its  low  sexual  reproduction  may  be  due  in  part 
to  a  paucity  of  visits  by  pollinators.  Insect  visits 
are  uncommon,  and  of  the  insects  that  have  been 
observed  visiting  the  flowers  from  1988  to  1993, 
none  can  be  distinguished  as  the  primary  pollina- 
tor (Sipes  et  al.  1994).  However,  the  fact  that  flow- 
ers often  appear  to  commence  fruit  development, 
but  later  abort,  suggests  that  some  other  factor, 
such  as  resource  limitation,  may  be  responsible  for 
the  low  fruit  set.  Because  Jones  cycladenia  occurs 


on  extremely  water  poor  soils  in  a  desert  environ- 
ment, the  most  probable  limiting  resource  is  water. 

We  address  the  following  questions  in  this 
study:  (1)  Does  Jones  cycladenia  require  a  pollina- 
tor for  sexual  reproduction?  (2)  Is  the  taxon  self- 
compatible?  (3)  Is  there  evidence  that  fruit  set  is 
limited  by  either  pollinators  or  water  availability? 

Methods 
Breeding  System 
Our  study  site  was  near  the  San  Rafael  Reef  in 
Emery  County,  Utah  (Table  1).  This  is  the  largest 
and  most  accessible  known  population.  Breeding 
system  experiments  were  performed  in  1991.  Be- 
fore implementing  the  experiments,  we  dissected 
flowers  of  Jones  cycladenia  to  become  familiar 
with  the  floral  morphology.  To  describe  the 
breeding  system,  we  chose  20  discrete  clumps  of 
ramets^  with  at  least  three  ramets  with  an  un- 
opened flower.  The  clumps  were  caged  to  exclude 
pollinators.  Cages  were  constructed  of  1  inch 
chicken  wire  covered  with  bags  made  of  1  mm 
nylon  tulle.  Calyces  of  flowers  were  marked  for 
treatment  with  enamel  paint  (previously  shown 
not  to  harm  flowers),  and  the  following  treatments 
were  applied  when  flowers  opened:  (1)  Autoga- 
my— flower  unmanipulated  to  test  for  automatic 
self-pollination  (without  a  pollen  vector);  (2)  Self- 
PoUination — flower  pollinated  with  its  own  pollen 


^In  a  study  of  clonal  structure  using  allozyme  data,  tightly 
grouped  clumps  of  ramets  usually  shared  the  same  multilocus 
genotype,  indicating  that  they  belonged  to  the  same  genet 
(Sipes  et  al.  1994). 


158 


Table  1.  Known  locations,  land  ownership,  and  esti- 
mated population  size  of  Jones  cycladenia.  Within  legal 
descriptions,  section  numbers  in  parentheses  indicate 
estimated  sections  in  unsur\'eyed  areas. 


Population  Land  Ownership  Size* 


San  Rafael,  UT  BLM,  State,  Private?  >  10,000 

Castle  Valley,  UT     BLM  >  5,000 

Onion  Creek,  UT  BLM  <  500 

Purple  Hills,  UT  Glen  Can.  Nat.  Rec.  Area  2500 

Circle  Cliffs,  UT  Glen  Can.  Nat.  Rec.  Area  <  500 

Deer  Point,  UT  BLM  >  500 

Capitol  Reef,  UT  Capitol  Reef  NatT  Park  >  500 

Pipe  Springs,  AZ  BLM,  Private?  >5000 

*Estimated  number  of  ramets. 


or  pollen  from  another  flower  on  the  same  ramet 
to  test  for  self-compatibility;  (3)  Cross  Pollina- 
tion— flower  pollinated  with  pollen  from  a  ramet 
at  least  15  meters  away  (to  increase  the  probability 
of  a  cross  between  two  genets). 

Flowers  were  pollinated  by  first  pulling  two 
anthers  away  from  the  anther  cone  to  expose  the 
stigma  of  the  recipient  flower,  and  applying  pollen 
from  the  donor  flower  to  the  recipient  stigma 
using  a  00-size  insect  pin.  Pollen  transfer  was  con- 
firmed with  the  aid  of  a  lOx  dissecting  scope;  pre- 
liminary pollinations  followed  by  dissection  and 
examination  of  stigmas  showed  that  this  technique 
accomplished  pollen  transfer.  We  attempted  to 
apply  pollen  to  as  much  of  the  stigma  as  possible, 
although  pollen  deposition  was  focused  on  the 
sticky  sides  of  the  cylindrical  stigma,  which  we 
judged  to  be  the  receptive  area.  All  flowers  were 
hand  pollinated  on  both  the  first  and  second  day 
of  anthesis,  to  increase  the  probability  that  pollina- 
tion took  place  during  the  time  of  stigma  receptiv- 
ity. Newly  opened  flowers  were  chosen  as  pollen 
donors  to  help  insure  that  pollen  was  viable. 
Plants  remained  bagged  until  corollas  of  treated 
flowers  dried.  For  each  treated  group  of  ramets,  a 
flower  on  an  adjacent,  unbagged  ramet  was 
marked  for  an  open-pollinated  control.  Treated 
flowers  were  checked  every  few  days  for  signs  of 
fruit  development.  Any  visible  enlargement  of  the 
ovary  was  considered  fruit  commencement. 

Breeding  system  experiments  were  repeated  in 
1992  and  1993.  We  used  the  same  methodology 
except  for  the  following  changes:  We  chose  20 
ramets  with  at  least  three  unopened  flowers  and 
applied  all  three  treatments  to  different  flowers  on 


the  same  ramet.  As  flowers  opened,  treatments 
were  applied  in  random  order  so  as  to  remove  any 
effect  of  flower  phenology.  Additionally,  we  chose 
the  largest,  most  vigorous  ramets  we  could  find, 
because  the  low  fruit  set  in  1991  suggested  that 
fruit  set  was  resource  limited. 

Water  Emendation 

In  May  1992,  we  watered  Jones  cycladenia 
plaiits  at  the  San  Rafael  site  to  test  the  hypothesis 
that  fruit  set  was  limited  by  water  availability 
during  the  flowering/fruiting  season.  Twenty 
clumps  of  ramets  were  chosen  and  randomly 
assigned  to  wet  (watered)  or  dry  (control)  groups. 
We  wanted  our  treatment  to  mimic  conditions 
during  a  wet  year,  so  water  was  added  in  an 
amount  equal  to  the  mean  precipitation  plus  one 
standard  deviation  for  Green  River,  Utah  (location 
of  closest  weather  station)  for  May  (1.7  cm  +  1.3 
cm  =  3  cm).  Once  a  week  for  four  weeks,  one 
fourth  of  this  total  amount  (0.75  cm)  was  applied 
to  a  0.75  m  circle  around  the  center  of  each  "wet" 
clump  (3.3  liters  water  per  clump  per  week).  This 
diameter  was  chosen  because  it  was  approxi- 
mately twice  the  diameter  of  the  clumps,  and  we 
estimated  that  it  would  include  most  of  the 
clumps'  root  systems.  Water  was  applied  in  early 
evening  to  minimize  evaporation. 

Natural  Fruit  Set 

Natural  levels  of  fruit  set  were  censused  in 
1992-1994.  At  each  population  censused,  between 
70  and  300  ramets  were  sampled  (depending  on 
population  size  and  time  constraints)  using  the 
step-point  method  (Bonham  1989).  For  each  ramet, 
number  of  leaves,  number  of  flowers,  and  number 
of  fruits  were  recorded.  In  1993  and  1994,  we  also 
recorded  number  of  aborted  fruits. 

To  further  monitor  fruit  development  at  San 
Rafael  in  1993,  and  to  compare  the  reproductive 
success  of  plants  beginning  anthesis  at  different 
times,  we  marked  three  groups  of  10  ramet 
clumps,  beginning  with  plants  from  among  the 
earliest  to  bloom.  Five  flowers  on  each  plant  were 
individually  marked  by  gluing  small  numbers  on 
the  calyx  with  Elmer's  glue.  Flowers  were  moni- 
tored throughout  their  lifetimes  for  fruit  develop- 
ment, abortion,  and  maturation.  At  10-day  inter- 
vals, groups  of  mid-blooming  and  late-blooming 
plants  were  marked  in  the  same  way.  We  were 
only  able  to  monitor  these  last  two  groups  at  the 
end  of  the  fruiting  season,  so  only  fruit  maturation 
data  are  available. 


159 


Observations  of  Flower  Visitors 
We  observed  and  collected  floral  visitors  to 
Jones  cycladenia  1991  to  1993.  Visitors  were  also 
collected  in  1988  and  1989  (Griswold  and  Tepe- 
dino,  unpublished  data).  In  each  of  these  years, 
collections  were  made  at  the  San  Rafael  and  Castle 
Valley  populations.  Additionally,  we  looked  for 
visitors  in  1993  at  Circle  Cliffs,  Purple  Hills, 
Capitol  Reef,  and  Onion  Creek  (Table  1).  Insect 
specimens  were  mounted  and  returned  to  the 
laboratory  for  identification.  In  1991-1993,  we 
observed  during  the  evening  at  the  San  Rafael  site 
to  determine  if  nocturnal  visitation  took  place. 

Results 
Floral  Morphology 
The  floral  morphology  of  Jones  cycladenia  is 
illustrated  in  Figure  1.  The  calyx,  corolla,  and 
androecium  are  5-merous.  Filaments  are  adnate  to 


the  corolla  tube,  and  anthers  form  a  tight  cone 
over  the  stigma.  Each  anther  produces  pollen  in  its 
upper  half,  and  is  attached  on  its  lower  half  to  the 
stigma  by  a  thin  band  of  tissue.  The  ovary  is  com- 
posed of  two  separate  carpels  that  share  a  com- 
mon style  and  stigma.  As  in  other  members  of  the 
Apocynaceae,  the  stigma  is  highly  specialized,  and 
in  conjunction  with  the  morphology  of  the  anthers, 
promotes  outcrossing  while  minimizing  self- 
pollination.  Self-pollen  dehisces  and  collects  on  the 
top  surface  of  the  stigma,  which  is  hard  and  dry. 
In  most  members  of  the  Apocynaceae,  the  top  of 
the  stigma  is  unreceptive  to  pollen,  serving  instead 
as  the  platform  of  a  chamber  for  secondary  pollen 
presentation  (Fallen  1986).  The  sides  of  the  cylin- 
drical stigma  exude  a  sticky  substance,  presum- 
ably to  aid  in  adherence  of  pollen  grains.  This  is 
the  area  we  judged  to  be  the  receptive  region. 
Apparently,  as  an  insect's  proboscis  is  withdrawn 


Figure  1.  Floral  morphology  of  Jones  cycladenia.  a  =  secretory  sides  of  stigma,  b  =  chamber  for  secondary 
pollen  presentation,  c  =  anther,  d  =  pollen  sacs  of  anther,  e  =  style,  f  =  ventral  surface  of  stigma,  g  =  tissue 
connecting  anther  to  stigma,  h  =  ovary  composed  of  two  partially  separate  carpels,  i  =  corolla  split  here 
and  spread  for  viewing. 


160 


after  probing  the  flower,  it  is  directed  inside  the 
anther  cone  where  (1)  it  passes  the  stigmatic 
surface,  depositing  pollen  from  previously  visited 
flowers,  (2)  it  becomes  coated  with  a  glue-like 
exudate  from  the  stigma,  and  3)  it  becomes  coated 
with  dehisced  pollen  that  has  collected  above  the 
stigma.  Available  evidence  suggests  that  Apocyn- 
aceous  pollen  is  not  collected  by  bees  for  provi- 
sioning of  nests,  but  is  picked  up  only  incidentally 
as  visitors  probe  for  nectar  (Hurd  1979). 

Breeding  System 

Few  fruits  matured  on  any  of  the  treatment 
flowers;  no  mature  fruits  were  produced  in  the 
1993  trial  (Table  2).  However,  ovaries  of  numerous 
flowers  expanded  after  pollination,  suggesting 
that  fruit  had  commenced  development  and  then 
aborted.  Assuming  we  adequately  pollinated  the 
treatment  flowers  (see  discussion  below),  we  can 
tentatively  draw  several  conclusions  about  the 
breeding  system  of  Jones  cycladenia.  First,  it  ap- 
pears to  require  a  pollen  vector  for  pollination.  No 
fruit  commencement  was  observed  in  the  autoga- 
my treatments  in  any  year.  Second,  the  species 
appears  to  be  at  least  partially  self-compatible.  A 
fruit  matured  on  a  self-pollinated  flower  in  both 
1991  and  1992,  and  fruit  commencement  is  about 
equal  between  selfed,  crossed,  and  control  flowers. 

Table  2.  Results  of  1991-1993  breeding  system  experi- 
ments. Data  are  number  of  fruits  /  number  of  flowers 
treated.  Numbers  in  parentheses  are  fruits  that  com- 
menced development  but  aborted. 


Autogamy 

Selfed 

Crossed 

Control 

1991 

0/11  (0) 

1/26  (11) 

1/24  (8) 

1/14(2) 

1992 

0/24  (0) 

1/20  (11) 

1/20  (7) 

0/23  (7) 

1993 

0/16(0) 

0/15  (3) 

0/16  (7) 

0/16  (9) 

Water  Emendation 

Natural  precipitation  in  May  was  above  aver- 
age (approx.  2.5  cm),  but  most  of  it  fell  after  the 
last  weekly  water  emendations.  Because  of  this, 
natural  precipitation  was  not  subtracted  from  the 
emendation;  thus,  the  treatments  received  more 
water  than  intended.  Nevertheless,  evidence  that 
fruit  set  was  limited  by  water  availability  was  not 
forthcoming.  Few  fruits  were  produced  by  either 
the  wet  or  the  dry  clumps.  In  the  wet  treatment, 
three  clumps  produced  fruit  (1,  1,  and  7  fruits).  In 
the  dry  treatment  also,  three  clumps  produced 
fruit  (1, 1,  and  3  fruits). 


Natural  Fruit  Set 

The  proportion  of  ramets  flowering  in  a  par- 
ticular year  varied  among  sites  from  0.36  in  1992  at 
San  Rafael  to  0.86  in  1994  at  Onion  Creek  (Figure 
2).  Within  populations,  the  proportion  of  ramets 
flowering  and  fruiting  across  years  was  surpris- 
ingly consistent,  with  the  exception  of  1992  at  San 
Rafael.  In  each  year  at  each  site,  more  ramets 
commenced  fruit  development  than  matured  fruit. 
Fruit  production  was  always  low;  in  all  cases  but 
one,  fewer  than  20  percent  of  ramets  matured  at 
least  one  fruit.  Interestingly,  although  Onion 
Creek  had  the  highest  proportion  of  flowering 
ramets  in  both  1993  and  1994,  it  had  the  lowest 
fruit  production  in  both  years.  Onion  Creek  is  also 
a  very  small  population,  consisting  of  fewer  than 
15  discrete  patches  of  ramets. 

Table  3  shows  the  fate  of  the  early  cohort  of 
flowers  monitored  in  1993,  Only  six  flowers 
showed  no  signs  of  fruit  development.  Most  fruits 
aborted,  and  did  so  throughout  all  stages  of  devel- 
opment. Only  6  of  the  42  flowers  matured  fruit, 
but  this  percentage  is  much  higher  than  the  overall 
percent  fruit  set  for  the  population  (14.3%  vs. 
2.3%).  No  flowers  in  the  mid-  and  late-flowering 
cohorts  matured  fruit. 


T.O 


o 
I— 

o 

CL 

o 
cr 

Q_ 


0.8 


0..6 


Q,..4 


0.2 


0.0 


z 


•92  '93  '94        '93  '94        '93  '94        '93  '93 
SR  CV  OC  DP  CR 

POPULATION  AND  YEAR 

Figure  2.  Proportion  of  ramets  that  flowered  but  did  not 
commence  fruit  (black  bars),  commenced  at  least  one 
fruit  but  did  not  mature  one  (striped  bar),  and  matured 
at  least  one  fruit  (white  bar).  Data  on  fruit  commence- 
ment not  available  for  San  Rafael  1992.  SR  =  San  Rafael, 
CV  =  Castle  Valley,  OC  =  Onion  Creek,  DP  =  Deer  Point, 
CR  =  Capitol  Reef. 


161 


Table  3.  Fate  of  early  cohort  flowers  (opened  approx.  15  April  1993)  at  San  Rafael  1993:  ab  =  aborted; 
measurements  indicate  length  of  fruit  when  aborted.  No  fruits  were  formed  from  mid  and  late  cohorts 
(not  shown  here). 


No.  Flws 

No. 

Fruit  ab. 

Fruit  ab. 

Fruit  ab. 

Fruit  ab. 

Fruit 

Plant 

Marked 

Fruit 

<  5  mm 

5-10  mm 

10-15  mm 

>  15  mm 

matured 

4 

2 

1 

1 

E2 

4 

1 

1 

2 

E3 

2 

1 

1 

E4 

5 

5* 

E5 

5 

1 

3 

1 

E6 

4 

2 

2 

E7 

4 

3 

1 

E8 

5 

3 

1 

1 

E9 

4 

1 

1 

1 

1 

ElO 

5 

2 

3 

Total 

42 

6 

14 

5 

7 

4 

6 

*Ramet  died. 


Observations  of  Flower  Visitors 
A  variety  of  diurnal  insects  have  been  found 
to  visit  the  flowers  of  Jones  cycladenia  at  San 
Rafael  and  Castle  Valley  populations  during  1988- 
1993  (Table  4).  Our  5  years  of  data  show  great 
inconsistency  from  year  to  year  in  visitor  species. 
For  example,  few  bees  were  collected  in  1988,  ex- 
cept for  the  common  generalists,  Lasioglossum  spp., 
while  in  contrast,  a  variety  of  small  andrenid  bees 
were  the  most  common  visitors  in  1991.  In  the 
other  years,  visitors  represented  a  diverse  assem- 
blage of  bees,  flies,  and  lepidopterans.  Many  of 
these  insects  may  be  rare  themselves;  no  fewer 
than  six  undescribed  species  of  bees  and  one 
undescribed  species  of  wasp  have  been  collected 
from  the  San  Rafael  site,  five  of  these  from  Jones 
cycladenia.  No  nocturnal  visitors  were  observed  in 
1991  or  1993.  However,  in  1992,  we  twice  caught 
fleeting  glimpses  of  nocturnal  visitors  to  Jones  cy- 
cladenia flowers,  but  it  was  too  dark  to  positively 
identify  the  taxa.  No  floral  visitors  were  observed 
at  Circle  Cliffs,  Purple  Hills,  Capitol  Reef,  or 
Onion  Creek.  However,  our  observation  time  was 
minimal  at  these  populations.  A  single  visitor,  a 
male  Agapostemon  sp.,  was  observed  in  a  flower  at 
Deer  Point. 

In  each  year,  various  dead  bees,  flies,  and  lepi- 
dopterans were  found  stuck  in  a  small  proportion 
of  flowers.  Several  times  we  watched  as  butterflies 
and  bees  probed  the  flowers,  became  entrapped, 
and  struggled  to  free  themselves.  Dissections  of 


these  flowers  showed  that  the  insects'  mouthparts 
had  become  wedged  between  the  anthers  and  then 
had  apparently  become  glued  to  the  stigma  via  the 
sticky  exudate. 

Discussion 

Breeding  System 

We  present  the  results  of  the  breeding  system 
experiment  as  preliminary  findings  for  several 
reasons.  First,  the  low  fruit  set  obtained  from  our 
hand  pollinations  are  insufficient  to  support 
anything  other  than  tentative  conclusions.  Second, 
a  recently  published  study  has  clarified  a  question 
that  has  been  debated  in  the  literature  for  years: 
where  is  the  receptive  region  in  the  Apocynaceous 
stigma?  Some  authors  have  declared  the  top  of  the 
stigma  to  be  the  receptive  region,  while  others 
have  implicated  the  sticky,  adhesive-producing 
sides  of  the  stigma  (Woodson  1930,  Beentje  1978, 
Hickey  and  King  1981).  Fallen  (1986)  described 
four  classes  of  stigma  morphology  within  the 
Apocynaceae  and  concluded  that  the  receptive 
surface  varies  among  these  classes.  In  these  stu- 
dies, conclusions  as  to  the  receptive  surface  were 
drawn  indirectly,  either  by  speculation  about  the 
pollination  mechanism,  or  by  histological  studies. 

Recently,  Albers  and  van  der  Maesen 
(1994)  presented  conclusive  evidence,  via  staining 
of  pollen  tubes,  that  the  receptive  stigmatic  region 
does  indeed  vary  within  the  family,  and  the 
morphology  of  the  stigma  can  be  used  as  a  predic- 


162 


Table  4.  List  of  visitors  to  Jones  cycladenia  flowers  at  San  Rafael  and  Castle  Valley,  from  1988  to  1993. 
Asterisk  ( *)  =  observed  but  not  collected  at  Deer  Point  only. 


1988  1989  1991  1992  1993 

HYMENOPTERA 
Andrenidae 

Andrena  linsleyana  Thorp.  X 
Perdita  aridella  Timb.  X 
P.  holoxantha  Timb.  X 
P.  moabensis  Timb.  X 
Perdita  new  species  #2  X 

Perdita  new  species  #4  X  X 

Apidae 

Anthophora  ajfabilis  Cr.  X 
A.  dammersi  Timb.  X 
A.  lesquerellae  Skll.  X 
A.  {Anthophoroides)  new  species  X 
Habropoda  morrisoni  (Cr.)  X 

Synhalonia  pliaceliae  Ckll.  X 
S.  quadricincta  Timb.  X 
Apis  mellifera  L.  XX 
Bombus  morrisoni  Cr.  X 

CoUetidae 

Colletes  phaceliae  Ckll.  X 
Halictidae 

*Agapostemon  sp.  X 
Dufourea  new  species  X  XX 

Lasioglossum  (Dialictus)  sp.  X  X 

L.  {Ezn/laeus)  sp.  X 

Megachilidae 

Osmia  crassa  Rust  &  Bohart  X 
Ashmeadiella  new  species  X 

A.  sonora  Mich.  X 
A.  gillettei  Titus  X 

Masaridae 

Pseudomasaris  new  species  X 
DIPTERA 

Bombyliidae  X  X  X  X  X 

Sarcophagidae  X 

Syrphidae  X  X 

LEPIDOPTERA 

Nymphalidae  X  X 

Geometridae  X 

Noctuidae  XXX 
Sphingidae  X?  


163 


tor  of  this  location.  Based  on  a  comparison  of  the 
stigmatic  morphology  of  Jones  cycladenia  to  those 
presented  in  Albers  and  van  der  Maesen  (1994),  it 
appears  probable  that  the  receptive  stigmatic 
surface  of  Jones  cycladenia  is  located  on  the  ventral 
surface  of  the  cylindrical  stigma  (see  Figure  1).  If 
this  is  so,  then  our  above  description  of  the  polli- 
nation mechanism  still  appears  to  hold,  except  that 
pollen  carried  on  the  mouthparts  of  pollinating 
insects  is  scraped  off  by  the  lower  collar  of  the 
stigma  and  collects  on  its  underside,  rather  than 
adhering  to  the  sticky  sides  of  the  stigma. 

This  new  finding  warrants  a  repetition  of  our 
breeding  system  experiments,  because  we  are 
unable  to  determine  the  degree  to  which  our  hand 
pollination  technique  transferred  pollen  to  this 
ventral  stigmatic  surface.  It  is  possible  that  flowers 
with  aborted  fruit  were  not  adequately  pollinated; 
perhaps  some  ovules  were  fertilized,  but  not 
enough  for  the  plant  to  invest  in  fully  maturing 
the  fruit  (Lee  1988).  Alternatively,  ovaries  may 
expand  and  appear  to  be  developing  fruit  after 
pollination,  but  before  fertilization  (Lee  1988).  We 
plan  to  address  these  questions  in  future  studies. 

Evidence  for  Resource-Limited  Fruit  Set 

The  high  abortion  rate  and  low  fruit  set  ob- 
served in  our  breeding  system  experiment  is 
mirrored  in  natural  populations:  three  years  of 
data  collected  from  five  populations  have  shown 
extremely  low  fruit  set  («  10%  of  flowers  mature 
fruit),  with  a  higher  percentage  (20-50%)  of 
flowers  commencing  fruit  set,  but  later  aborting 
(Sipes  et  al.  1994).  Resource  limitation  is  the  most 
common  cause  of  fruit  abortion  (Stephenson  1981). 
The  fact  that  fruit  set  dropped  precipitously  from 
the  early  cohort  of  flowers  to  the  mid  and  late 
cohorts  suggests  that  some  resource  may  have  be- 
come depleted  during  the  course  of  the  flowering 
and  fruiting  season. 

The  most  obvious  resource,  water,  was  not 
implicated  in  fruit  set  limitation  in  this  study. 
Water  emendations,  supplied  at  one  standard 
deviation  above  normal  rainfall  for  the  month  of 
May,  had  no  measurable  effect  on  fruit  set.  It 
remains  possible  that  water  is  limiting,  but  that  the 
critical  period  for  its  delivery  and  uptake  is  at 
times  of  the  year  other  than  spring.  Further  studies 
are  needed  to  examine  the  role  of  time  of  water 
delivery  on  fruit  set. 

Other  resources,  such  as  soil  nutrients,  may 
limit  the  fruit  production  of  Jones  cycladenia.  The 
soils  in  which  this  plant  is  found  are  extremely 
low  in  both  nitrogen  and  phosphorus  (Sipes  et  al. 


1994).  Deficiencies  of  either  of  these  nutrients  are 
known  to  cause  low  fruit  set  and  fruit  abortion  in 
other  plants  (Stephenson  1981).  Future  studies  of 
fruit  limitation  should  incorporate  nutrient  emen- 
dations. 

Evidence  for  Pollinator-Limited  Fruit  Set 

Despite  the  suggestion  that  fruit  set  in  Jones 
cycladenia  may  sometimes  be  limited  by  re- 
sources, the  low  visitation  rates  to  the  flowers 
recorded  over  5  years  strongly  suggests  that 
pollination  rates  are  never  high  enough  to 
challenge  resource  availability.  Insect  visitors  to 
the  flowers  are  uncommon  and  have  been  highly 
variable  from  year  to  year.  No  single  taxon  or 
group  of  taxa  has  consistently  visited  Jones 
cycladenia  year  after  year.  In  fact,  strikingly 
different  assemblages  of  floral  visitors  have  been 
collected  each  year.  Additionally,  the  extremely 
low  visitation  rate  makes  it  difficult  to  establish 
the  relative  importance  of  any  particular  visitors 
as  pollinators.  It  is  likely  that  the  various  insects 
that  occasionally  visit  the  flowers  do  not  often 
pollinate  them  adequately  and  that  the  result  is 
fruit  abortion  and  low  fruit  set.  The  selective  abor- 
tion of  fruits  with  few  fertilized  ovules  has  been 
reviewed  by  Stephenson  (1981)  and  Lee  (1988). 
However,  this  argument  for  pollinator  limitation 
of  fruit  set  must  confront  the  finding  of  low  fruit 
set  even  in  flowers  cross-pollinated  by  hand. 

The  Apocynaceae  is  generally  considered  to  be 
adapted  for  pollination  by  butterflies  and  large, 
long-tongued  bees  (Waddington  1976,  Albers  and 
van  der  Maesen  1994).  However,  about  half  of  the 
bee  species  collected  from  Jones  cycladenia  were 
small,  short-tongued  species  (Table  4).  No  long- 
tongued  bees  were  abundant  or  consistent  visitors. 
Additionally,  few  butterflies  visited  the  flowers. 
These  findings,  gathered  over  5  years,  raise  the 
possibility  that  the  original  pollinator  of  Jones 
cycladenia  is  no  longer  consistently  found  within 
the  plants'  distribution.  Alternatively,  pollination 
and  fruit  set  may  be  facilitated  by  episodic  ap- 
pearances of  migrant  pollinators  such  as  the 
painted  lady,  Vanessa  cardui  (Nymphalidae). 

The  entrapment  of  insects  within  the  flowers 
poses  yet  another  mystery  in  this  puzzle.  It  is 
unclear  what,  if  any,  significance  this  intriguing 
phenomenon  has  to  Jones  cycladenia's  reproduc- 
tive success,  but  similar  observations  have  been 
made  in  other  members  of  the  Apocynaceae 
(Leggett  1872,  Osbum  1920,  Woodson  1930,  Wad- 
dington 1976).  Although  large  insects,  such  as 
anthophorid  bees  and  nymphalid  butterflies,  are 


164 


occasionally  trapped  in  Jones  cycladenia  flowers, 
the  most  common  victims  are  small  bees  (e.g., 
Perdita,  Dufourea)  and  bombyliid  flies.  The  tar  and 
feather  process  of  insect  probosci  being  guided 
first  over  the  sticky  stigma  and  then  through  the 
pollen  chamber  is  intended  to  promote  outcros- 
sing, but  apparently  goes  awry  when  the  visitor  is 
not  strong  enough  to  pull  out,  or  after  the  insect 
has  become  gummed  up  by  multiple  visits  to  Jones 
cycladenia  flowers.  A  similar  scenario  has  been 
postulated  by  Osburn  (1920),  after  extensive 
observations  of  Apocynum  spp.  Great  persistence 
may  be  needed  to  solve  the  riddle  of  what,  if 
anything,  presently  pollinates  Jones  cycladenia. 

Other  Possible  Limiting  Factors  of  Fruit  Production 

If  genets  of  a  clonal  species  are  very  large,  then 
most  pollinator  movements  will  be  within  genets, 
a  phenomenon  which  could  limit  fruit  set  if 
species  are  self-incompatible  or  suffer  inbreeding 
depression  (Aspinwall  and  Christian  1992).  Large 
self-incompatible  clones  were  suspected  to  be  the 
reason  for  low  fruit  set  in  the  related  Apocynum 
sibiricum  (Waddington  1976).  However,  a  study  of 
the  clonal  structure  of  Jones  cycladenia  utilizing 
enzyme  electrophoresis  showed  that  Jones  cycla- 
denia clones  generally  do  not  extend  further  than 
10  meters  in  any  one  direction,  and  are  extensively 
interdigitated  (Sipes  and  Wolf,  in  preparation). 
This  suggests  that  pollinators  will  quite  often 
move  between  genets  and  carry  out  cross-pollina- 
tion. Additionally,  genotype  frequencies  in  seven 
populations  of  Jones  cycladenia  did  not  differ 
significantly  from  Hardy-Weinberg  proportions, 
suggesting  the  populations  are  not  inbred  (Sipes 
and  Wolf,  in  preparation). 

Low  fruit  set  in  Jones  cycladenia  may  be  a 
reflection  of  its  phylogeny  and  growth  habit.  Low 
fruit  set  and  high  fruit  abortion  have  been  com- 
monly reported  in  members  of  the  Apocynaceae 
(Woodson  1930,  Waddington  1976,  Anderson 
1983,  Fallen  1986),  as  well  as  in  Asclepiadaceae,  a 
closely  related  family  (Broyles  and  Wyatt  1990, 
Stephenson  1981,  Willson  and  Price  1977).  Al- 
though the  reasons  for  this  pattern  are  not  com- 
pletely clear,  it  has  been  postulated  that  flowers  in 
excess  of  those  that  can  mature  fruit  serve  to 
increase  a  plant's  fitness  through  the  male  function 
(Broyles  and  Wyatt  1990,  Stephenson  1981,  Will- 
son  and  Price  1977).  Such  an  explanation  of  low 
fruit  set  in  Jones  cycladenia  strains  credulity.  The 
average  plant's  fitness  in  any  given  year,  achieved 
through  male  or  female  function,  is  minuscule. 


Low  sexual  reproduction  also  appears  to  be 
the  norm  for  clonal  plants  (Callaghan  et  al.  1992, 
Ellstrand  and  Roose  1987).  Clonal  plants  may  form 
dense  stands  where  recruited  seedlings  cannot 
compete.  For  this  reason,  clonal  plants  may  allo- 
cate more  resources  to  vegetative  rather  than  sex- 
ual reproduction.  This  is  an  unlikely  explanation 
for  Jones  cycladenia,  because  total  vegetative  cover 
within  populations  is  usually  less  than  5  percent, 
and  Jones  cycladenia  cover  is  less  than  1  percent 
(Sipes  et  al.  1994).  Nonetheless,  we  have  never 
observed  any  seedling  recruitment  in  Jones  cycla- 
denia, although  searches  for  seedlings  have  been 
conducted  during  spring  and  summer  1991-1994. 

Implications  for  Conservation 

Regardless  of  the  cause,  the  low  sexual  repro- 
duction observed  in  Jones  cycladenia  poses  special 
concerns  for  its  conservation.  Because  Jones  cycla- 
denia reproduces  vegetatively,  it  may  be  persisting 
despite  a  loss  of  its  original  pollinator  species. 
However,  the  infrequent  (or  nonexistent)  recruit- 
ment of  new  individuals  into  populations  makes 
each  existing  clone  especially  valuable  to  conser- 
vation efforts.  Jones  cycladenia  may  have  a  very 
low  ability  to  replace  individuals  lost  to  human 
impacts  or  stochastic  events.  It  may  also  have  a 
low  ability  to  colonize  other  suitable  habitats.  For 
example,  in  the  Circle  Cliffs  area,  Jones  cycladenia 
inhabits  only  a  small  area,  despite  seemingly  ex- 
tensive habitat  in  the  same  geologic  members  with 
similar  soil,  slope,  aspect,  and  vegetation.  As  with 
all  rare  species,  but  especially  with  Jones  cycla- 
denia, all  known  populations  should  be  protected 
as  insurance  against  unpredictable  events. 

Acknowledgments 

Funding  for  this  study  was  provided  by 
USDA/APHIS  and  USDI/BLM  Challenge  Cost 
Share  Program.  We  thank  Dr.  Terry  Griswold 
(USDA)  for  identification  of  the  insect  specimens, 
as  well  as  for  his  participation  in  numerous  brain- 
storming sessions  over  the  years  in  an  attempt  to 
understand  Jones  cycladenia.  Dr.  P.G.  Wolf  (USU) 
made  many  helpful  suggestions  during  the  study. 
We  thank  the  field  crew:  W.R.  Bowlin,  S.  Di- 
Giacomo,  Y.  Wilder,  M.  Sipes,  G.  Warren,  and  R. 
Nielson,  and  the  numerous  other  persons  and 
agencies  that  cooperated  with  us,  including  Larry 
England  (U.S.  Fish  and  WildUfe),  Ron  Bolander 
(BLM),  Lori  Armstrong  (BLM),  John  Spence  (Glen 
Canyon  NRA),  and  Norm  Henderson  (Capitol 
Reef  NP). 


165 


Literature  Cited 

Albers,  P.,  and  L.J.G.  van  der  Maesen.  1994.  Pollination 
of  Apocynaceae.  Wageningen  Agricultural  Univer- 
sity Papers  94-3:63-81. 

Anderson,  A.H.  1983.  Hand  pollination  of  Apocynaceae. 
Cactus  and  Succulent  Journal  (U.S.)  55:252-254. 

Aspinwall,  N.,  and  T.  Christian.  1992.  Pollination  biol- 
ogy, seed  production,  and  population  structure  in 
Queen-of-the-Prairie,  Filipendida  rubra  (Rosaceae)  at 
Botkin  Fen,  Missouri.  American  Journal  of  Botany  79 
(5):488-494. 

Beentje,  H.J.  1978.  Publications  on  Apocynaceae.  II.  A 
revision  of  Callichilia  Stapf  (Apocynaceae).  Medede- 
lingen  Landbouwhogeschool  Wageningen  78  (7):1- 
32. 

Bonham,  CD.  1989.  Measurements  for  Terrestrial  Vege- 
tation. John  Wiley  &  Sons,  Inc.,  New  York. 

Broyles,  S.B.,  and  R.  Wyatt.  1990.  Paternity  analysis  in  a 
natural  population  of  Asclepias  exaltata :  Multiple  pa- 
ternity, functional  gender,  and  the  "pollen-donation 
hypothesis."  Evolution  44:1454-1468. 

Callaghan,  T.V.,  B.A.  Carlsson,  I.S.  Jonsdottir,  B.M. 
Svensson,  and  S.  Jonasson.  1992.  Clonal  plants  and 
environmental  change:  Introduction  to  the  proceed- 
ings and  summary.  Oikos  63:341-347. 

EUstrand,  N.C.,  and  M.L.  Roose.  1987.  Patterns  of  geno- 
typic  diversity  in  clonal  plant  species.  American 
Journal  of  Botany  74  (1):123-131. 

Fallen,  M.E.  1986.  Floral  structure  in  the  Apocynaceae: 
Morphological,  functional,  and  evolutionary  aspects. 
Botanischer  Jahresbericht  Systematisch  106  (2):245- 
286. 

Hickey,  M.  and  C.J.  King.  1981.  100  Families  of  Flower- 
ing Plants.  Cambridge  University  Press,  Cambridge, 
MA. 


Hurd,  P.D.,  Jr.  1979.  Superfamily  Apoidea.  In  K.V. 
Krombein,  P.D.  Hurd  Jr.,  D.R.  Smith,  and  B.D.  Burks, 
editors.  Catalog  of  Hymenoptera  in  America  North 
of  Mexico.  Smithsonian  Institute  Press,  Washington, 
D.C. 

Lee.  T.D.  1988.  Patterns  of  fruit  and  seed  production.  In 
J.  Lovett  Doust  and  L.  Lovett  Doust,  editors,  pp.  179- 
202.  Plant  Reproductive  Ecology.  Oxford  University 
Press,  New  York. 

Leggett,  W.H.  1872.  Apocynum.  Bulletin  of  the  Torrey 
Botanical  Club  3:46-55. 

Osburn,  R.C.  1920.  The  syrphid  fly,  Mesogramma  margi- 
nata,  and  the  flowers  of  Apocynum.  Ohio  Journal  of 
Science  20  (7):261-265. 

Sipes,  S.D.,  P.G.  Wolf,  V.J.  Tepedino,  and  J.  Boettinger. 
1994.  Final  Report:  Population  genetics  and  ecology 
of  Jones  cycladenia.  Utah  State  University.  Prepared 
for  the  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Salt  Lake  City, 
UT. 

Stephenson,  A.G.  1981.  Flower  and  fruit  abortion:  Proxi- 
mate causes  and  ultimate  functions.  Annual  Review 
of  Ecology  and  Systematics  12:253-79. 

Waddington,  K.D.  1976.  Pollination  of  Apocynum  sibiri- 
aim  (Apocynaceae)  by  Lepidoptera.  Southwestern 
Naturalist  21:31-36. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  N.D.  Atwood,  L.C.  Higgins,  and  S.  Good- 
rich. 1987.  A  Utah  Flora.  Great  Basin  Naturalist 
Memoirs  No.  9.  Brigham  Young  University,  Provo, 
UT. 

Willson,  M.,  and  P.W.  Price.  1977.  The  evolution  of 
inflorescence  size  in  Asclepias  (Asclepiadaceae). 
Evolution  31:495-511. 

Woodson,  R.E.,  Jr.  1930.  Studies  in  the  Apocynaceae  I. 
Annals  of  the  Missouri  Botanical  Garden  17:1-212. 


166 


Seed  Germination  and  Pollination  Requirements  of 
Holy  Ghost  Ipomopsis  {Ipomopsis  sancti-spiritus) 

JOYCE  MASCHINSKI 
The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  P.  O.  Box  670,  Flagstaff,  AZ  86002 

Abstract:  Holy  Ghost  Ipomopsis  is  an  endangered  species  known  only  from  a  single  location 
in  northern  New  Mexico.  To  examine  its  cultivation  requirements  and  breeding  system,  I 
conducted  seed  germination  and  pollination  studies.  Results  indicated  that  maximum  germi- 
nation occurred  after  at  least  1  month  of  cold  stratification.  Fruit  set  occurred  in  response  to 
application  of  both  self  and  outcrossed  pollen,  indicating  that  the  species  has  a  flexible  breed- 
ing system.  Fruit  set  success  from  outcross  pollen  varied  with  pollen  donor.  This  evidence 
and  the  observation  that  anthers  often  lack  pollen  may  be  responses  to  small  population  size. 


Introduction 

For  many  rare  plants,  recommended  conser- 
vation strategies  include  maintaining  an  ex  situ 
collection  of  the  species  and  determining  auteco- 
logical  factors  necessary  for  growth  and  repro- 
duction (USFWS  1989,  1991,  1992).  To  accompHsh 
this,  botanical  gardens  in  the  consortium  known  as 
the  Center  for  Plant  Conservation  have  collected 
seeds  or  cuttings  of  rare  species  from  the  wild  to 
house  "captive"  populations  in  their  gardens.  The 
captive  populations  are  a  resource  for  studying 
growth  and  reproduction  requirements,  which  are 
essential  for  the  management  of  the  species  in  cap  - 
tivity  and  can  aid  conservation  efforts  in  the  wild. 

One  of  the  species  for  which  ex  situ  and  bio- 
logical studies  have  been  recommended  is  Holy 
Ghost  Ipomopsis  {Ipomopsis  sancti-spiritus  Wilken 
&  Fletcher),  housed  at  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff 
and  part  of  the  National  Collection  of  the  Center 
for  Plant  Conservation.  The  species  is  known  only 
from  a  1.3  mile  stretch  along  a  road  through  mixed 
conifer  forests  of  Holy  Ghost  Canyon  in  northern 
New  Mexico,  Santa  Fe  National  Forest.  Ipomopsis 
sancti-spiritus  population  size  is  estimated  to  be 
between  1250  and  2500  individuals  (Sivinski  1991). 
It  was  listed  as  endangered  in  1994  (USFWS  1994). 
Because  the  majority  of  the  population  occurs 
along  the  cut-and-fill  slopes  of  the  road,  it  is 
hypothesized  that  management  practices,  which 
eliminated  natural  disturbances  such  as  fire  and 
erosion,  have  shifted  the  dependence  of  the 
species  to  man-made  disturbances  for  suitable 
habitat  (Sivinski  1991).  Like  other  members  of  the 
genus,  the  species  requires  well-drained  soils  and 
is  not  very  competitive  (Maschinski  and  Whitham 
1989,  Wilken  1996).  The  extremely  narrow  geo- 
graphic distribution  of  the  species  and  its  lack  of 
competitive  ability  make  it  extremely  vulnerable 
to  activities  related  to  road  maintenance  and /or 


activities  suppressing  moderate  disturbance 
(Sivinski  1991). 

Little  was  known  about  the  reproduction  and 
cultivation  requirements  of  the  species.  Yet,  this 
information  is  essential  to  conserve  the  species  ex 
situ  and  to  carry  out  the  conservation  recommen- 
dation to  introduce  the  species  to  new  locations 
(Sivinski  1991).  Here  I  report  on  seed  germination 
and  pollination  requirements  and  suggest  avenues 
for  future  research. 

Methods 

To  determine  the  germination  requirements  of 
the  species,  seeds  were  exposed  to  six  different 
conditions:  (1)  direct  exposure  to  moisture  on  a 
mist  bench  in  a  greenhouse  facility  with  ambient 
temperatures  of  60-80°F  without  any  special 
treatment;  (2)  scarification  with  concentrated 
sulfuric  acid  for  1  min.,  rinsing,  and  placement  on 
a  mist  bench;  (3)  exposure  to  variable  day/night 
temperatures  of  55°/35°F  in  a  growth  chamber;  (4) 
exposure  to  variable  day /night  temperatures  of 
76°/38°F  in  a  growth  chamber;  (5)  stratification  at 
42°F  for  4  weeks;  (6)  stratification  at  42°F  for  6 
weeks;  and  (7)  stratification  at  42°F  for  8  weeks. 
Seeds  from  individual  fruits  were  kept  separate 
for  germination  trials  so  that  parental  origin  could 
be  tracked.  In  addition,  the  total  number  of  seeds 
in  55  fruits  was  counted  to  determine  average  seed 
set.  The  total  number  of  seeds  used  for  each 
treatment  varied  between  60  and  117  in  24  to  38 
replicates  per  treatment.  Germination  was  checked 
weekly  for  7  weeks  after  the  treatment  was  im- 
posed. Differences  in  the  percentage  of  seeds  that 
germinated  were  analyzed  using  analysis  of 
variance. 

To  determine  whether  Ipomopsis  sancti-spiritus 
is  self-compatible  or  self-incompatible,  10  plants 
growing  at  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff  were 


167 


bagged  to  eliminate  any  avian  or  insect  contact 
with  flowers.  Within  each  plant,  test  flowers  were 
haphazardly  selected  and  emasculated  before 
pollination  treatment;  Ave  flowers  received  pollen 
directly  from  the  anthers  of  another  plant,  five 
flowers  received  self  pollen,  and  five  flowers  re- 
ceived no  pollen.  Fruit  set  was  then  quantified  at 
the  end  of  4  weeks. 

Results 

The  mean  number  of  seeds /fruit  was  4.1  in  the 
55  fruits  measured.  The  percentage  of  seeds  that 
germinated  varied  according  to  treatment  (F  =  5.08, 
p  <  0.0001,  Figure  1)  with  the  highest  percentages 
occurring  in  the  4-week  and  8-week  stratification 
treatments,  73  percent  and  77  percent,  respective- 
ly. Surprisingly,  the  6-week  stratification  treatment 
was  not  intermediate  between  the  4-week  and  8- 
week  treatments.  Scarification  had  the  lowest 
percentage  (36%)  of  seeds  germinating.  These 
findings  suggest  that  most  germination  in  the  wild 
would  occur  in  the  summer  or  fall  when  soils  are 
moist  and  temperatures  warm  to  >60°F  following 
the  winter  stratification  period. 

Seedlings  that  arose  from  the  germination 
studies  were  transplanted  to  standard  potting  mix 


(2  peat,  3  sand,  4  perlite,  4  composted  bark)  and 
then  into  Flagstaff  basalt  cinder  soils.  They  sur- 
vived well  on  the  grounds  of  The  Arboretum  at 
Flagstaff.  Thirty- two  of  215  or  15  percent  of  trans- 
plants died. 

Pollination  trials  indicated  that  Ipomopsis 
sancti-spiritus  could  set  fruit  when  flowers  received 
either  self  or  outcrossed  pollen.  None  of  the 
flowers  that  received  no  pollen  set  fruit.  The 
percentage  of  successful  fruit  set  with  selfed  vs. 
outcrossed  pollen  varied  across  individuals  and 
with  pollen  donor,  such  that  57  percent  of  selfing 
trials  successfully  set  fruit,  whereas  outcrossed 
pollen  trials  had  between  9.5  percent  and  77  per- 
cent successful  fruit  set,  depending  on  the  pollen 
donor.  Finding  viable  pollen  for  the  experiment 
was  sometimes  problematic,  because  a  small,  un- 
measured percentage  of  anthers  appeared  empty 
of  pollen,  being  completely  white  instead  of  blue 
in  color.  Blue  anthers  contained  pollen,  whereas 
white  ones  did  not. 

Discussion 

Several  pieces  of  evidence  from  these  prelimi- 
nary studies  suggest  that  J.  sancti-spiritus  has 
characteristics  symptomatic  of  the  ills  of  small 


1  1 


MIST    SCARIFY  55/35      76/38  STRATIFICATION 

4  WK        6  WK  8WK 

Figure  1.  Percentage  of  seeds  germinating  with  various  treatments. 


168 


population  size.  With  a  mean  of  4  seeds/ fruit  and 
10-12  ovules  per  locule  (Wilken  and  Fletcher 
1988),  its  seed/ovule  ratio  is  approximately  0.38. 
This  value  is  equal  to  or  below  levels  seen  iii  other 
outcrossing  species  (i.e.,  0.37,  0.45,  0.48)  and  is 
dramatically  lower  than  the  values  of  0.92,  0.95, 
0.91  measured  in  inbreeding  species  (Weins  et  al. 
1987).  Apparently,  I.  sancti-spiritiis  is  not  receiving 
adequate  pollen  at  Holy  Ghost  Canyon  to  optimize 
seed  set.  Studies  with  the  congener  /.  aggregata 
(Pursh)  V.  Grant  indicated  that  seed  set  could  be 
enhanced  with  pollen  supplements,  suggesting 
that  the  species  was  pollen  limited  (Hainsworth  et 
al.  1985).  Because  the  number  of  flowering  /.  sancti- 
spiritus  may  be  less  than  500  individuals  in  a  sea- 
son with  clusters  of  <50  plants  in  a  30-m  stretch  of 
habitat  (Maschinski,  personal  observation),  polli- 
nator visitation  may  be  very  low. 

The  results  of  the  pollination  studies  suggest 
the  narrowly  distributed  I.  sancti-spiritiis  is  appar- 
ently capable  of  some  selfing,  but  is  also  outcros- 
sing. In  comparison,  its  more  widespread  con- 
gener, J.  arizonica,  is  obligately  outcrossing.  It 
should  be  noted,  however,  that  neither  viability  of 
seeds  produced  from  selfed  vs.  outcrossed  pollen 
nor  survivability  of  offspring  produced  by  the  two 
methods  was  measured.  For  now  it  is  possible  to 
state  that  Ipomopsis  sancti-spiritus  apparently  has  a 
flexible  pollination  system,  which  may  be  an  adap- 
tation to  small  population  size. 

These  findings  also  indicated  that  outcrossing 
success  varied  with  pollen  donor.  Due  to  the 
requirement  that  two  individuals  must  differ  by  at 
least  one  allelic  at  the  incompatibility  locus 
(S-locus;  de  Nattancourt  1977)  in  order  for  a  self- 
incompatible  species  to  successfully  set  fruit,  the 
probability  of  incompatibility  increases  in  small 
populations  (Byers  and  Meagher  1992,  Byers  1995). 
Lloyd  (1965)  and  Wyatt  (1983)  suggested  that  self- 
compatibility  may  evolve  from  self-incompatibility 
due  to  pressures  imposed  by  small  population 
size,  such  as  small  numbers  of  pollinators  or  a  lack 
of  compatible  pollen.  As  Byers  (1995)  found  with 
the  rare  plant  Eupatoriiim  resinosiim ,  low  seed  set  in 
wild  populations  of  /.  sancti-spiritus  is  most  likely 
influenced  by  insufficient  quantities  of  pollen  and 
incompatible  pollen.  As  population  size  becomes 
smaller,  the  proportion  of  incompatible  mates 
increases.  Further,  the  observation  that  anthers 
were  empty  of  pollen  suggests  that  the  species 
may  be  experiencing  inbreeding  depression  and 
subsequent  reductions  in  gamete  production. 

These  preliminary  studies  have  provided  a 


good  foundation  for  future  studies.  Among  the 
questions  that  will  need  to  be  addressed  are 
whether  selfed  or  outcrossed  progeny  have  equal 
fitness,  what  percentage  of  pollen  is  viable,  and 
what  the  incompatibility  ratio  is  in  the  population. 
These  are  essential  pieces  of  information  needed  to 
unravel  the  breeding  system  and  to  determine 
what  measures  need  to  be  taken  for  the  conserva- 
tion of  the  species. 

Acknowledgments 
Special  thanks  to  Meg  Heim  for  her  help  with 
the  germination  studies  and  to  Kenric  Kesler  for 
his  help  with  the  pollination  studies.  This  work 
was  supported  by  a  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
contract  to  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff. 

Literature  Cited 

Byers,  D.L.  1995.  Pollen  quantity  and  quality  as  explana- 
tions for  low  seed  set  in  small  populations  exempli- 
fied by  Eiipatoriiim  (Asteraceae).  American  Journal  of 
Botany  82:1000-1006. 

Byers,  D.L.  and  T.R.  Meagher.  1992.  Mate  availability  in 
small  populations  of  plant  species  with  homomorph- 
ic  sporophytic  self-incompatibility.  Heredity  68:353- 
359. 

de  Nettancourt,  D.  1977.  Incompatibility  in  Angio- 
sperms:  Monographs  on  theoretical  and  applied 
genetics.  Springer-Verlag,  Berlin. 

Lloyd,  D.  G.  1965.  Evolution  of  self-incompatibility  and 
racial  differentiation  in  Leavenworthia  (Cruciferae). 
Contributions  of  Gray  Herbarium  195:3-134. 

Hainsworth,  F.R.,  L.L.  Wolf,  and  T.  Mercier.  1985.  Pollen 
limitation  in  a  monocarpic  species,  Ipomopsis  aggre- 
gata. Journal  of  Ecology  73:263-270. 

Maschinski,  J.  and  T.G.  Whitham.  1989.  The  continuum 
of  plant  responses  to  herbivory:  The  influence  of 
plant  association,  nutrient  availability,  and  timing. 
American  Naturalist  134:1-19. 

Sivinski,  R.  1991.  Status  report  on  Ipomopsis  sancti- 
spiritus.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque, 
New  Mexico.  15  pp. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1989.  Mancos  melkvetch 
{Astragalus  humillimus)  Recovery  Plan.  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  47  pp. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1991.  Autumn  buttercup 
{Ranunculus  acriformis  var.  aestivalis)  Recovery  Plan. 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Denver,  Colorado.  20 
pp. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1992.  Welsh's  Milkweed 
{Asclepias  welshii)  Recovery  Plan.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wild- 
life Service,  Denver,  Colorado.  19  pp. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1994.  Endangered  and 
threatened  wildlife  and  plants;  determination  ctf 
endangered  status  for  the  plant  Ipomopsis  sancti- 
spiritus  (Holy  Ghost  ipomopsis).  Federal  Register  50 
CFR  Part  17  RIN  1018-AB66,  pp.  13836-13841. 


169 


Weins,  D.,  C.L.  Calvin,  C.A.  Wilson,  C.I.  Davern,  D. 
Frank,  and  S.R.  Seavey.  1987.  Reproductive  success, 
spontaneous  embryo  abortion,  and  genetic  load  in 
flower  plants.  Oecologia  71:501-509. 

Wilken,  D.  1996.  Demography  of  Ipomopsis  aggregata  ssp. 
weberi,  a  rare  plant  of  northern  Colorado.  In  J.  Ma- 
schinski  and  H.D.  Hammond,  editors.  Southwestern 
rare  and  endangered  plants:  Proceedings  of  the 
Second  Conference;  1995  September  11-14,  Flagstaff, 
AZ.  Gen.  Tech  Rep.  RM-GTR-283.  Fort  Collins,  CO, 
U.S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  Forest  Service,  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station. 


Wilken,  D.  and  R.  Fletcher.  1988.  Ipomopsis  sandi-spiritiis 

(Polemoniaceae),  a  new  species  from  northern  New 

Mexico.  Brittonia  40:48-51. 
Wyatt,  R.  1983.  Pollinator-plant  interactions  and  the 

evolution  of  breeding  systems.  In  L.  Real,  editor. 

Pollination  biology,  pp.  51-95.  Academic  Press,  New 

York. 


170 


Self-Incompatibility  in  Abronia  macrocarpa  (Nyctaginaceae), 
an  Endangered  Texas  Endemic:  Comparison  of 
Self-  and  Outcross  Pollen  Tube  Growth 

PAULA  S.  WILLIAMSON,!  SELVI  K.  BAZEER,!  and  GENA  K.  JANSSEN^ 

■^Department  of  Biology,  Southwest  Texas  State  University,  San  Marcos  78666 
^Resource  Protection  Division,  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department,  Austin  78744 

Abstract:  Abronia  macrocarpa,  large-fruited  sand  verbena,  vv^as  listed  as  federally  and  state 
endangered  in  1988.  The  plant  is  an  herbaceous  perennial  characterized  by  large  anthocarps. 
A  study  of  its  pollination  biology  by  Williamson  et  al.  (1994)  revealed  that  A.  macrocarpa  is 
reliant  upon  hawkmoths  and  noctuid  moths  to  bring  about  cross-pollination  for  successful 
fruit  set.  The  study  showed  that  flov^ers  experimentally  crossed  autogamously  and  geiton- 
ogamously  do  not  produce  seed.  Failure  to  set  seed  follov/ing  self-pollination  may  be  the 
result  of  pre-fertilization  or  post-fertilization  barriers.  This  study  examines  the  barrier  to 
selfing  present  in  this  species.  Flowers  were  experimentally  self-  and  outcrossed,  and  then 
pollen  germination  and  relative  growth  of  pollen  tubes  were  examined  using  fluorescent 
microscopy.  Self-pollen  adheres  to  the  stigma  and  does  germinate;  however,  self-pollen  tubes 
reach  lengths  of  only  0.07  to  0.1  mm.  Self-pollen  tubes  do  not  penetrate  into  the  style,  and 
therefore  self-fertilization  is  precluded. 


Introduction 

Abronia  is  a  western  North  American  genus  in 
the  Nyctaginaceae  or  four  o'clock  family.  Sixteen 
species  occur  in  the  United  States  (Galloway  1975). 
Abronia  ameliae  Lundell,  A.  angiistifolia  Greene,  A 
carletonia  Coult.  &  Fish.,  A.  fragrans  Hook.,  and  A 
macrocarpa  Galloway  occur  in  Texas  (Figure  1). 
Abronia  ameliae  and  A.  macrocarpa  are  Texas  en- 
demics (CorreU  and  Johnston  1970). 

Abronia  macrocarpa,  commonly  called  large- 
fruited  sand  verbena,  is  known  to  occur  in  three 
counties  (Freestone,  Leon,  and  Robertson)  in  the 
Post  Oak  Savannah  Woodlands  region  of  east- 
central  Texas  (Figure  1).  When  the  taxon  was 
originally  described  in  the  early  1970s  (Galloway 
1972),  only  one  population  was  known.  The  type 
locality  is  a  sand-dune  area,  approximately  9  miles 
northwest  of  Normangee,  Texas.  Nine  additional 
populations  have  recently  been  identified:  three 
more  in  Leon  County,  one  in  Freestone  County, 
and  five  in  Robertson  County  (Yantis  and  Wil- 
liamson, unpublished). 

The  plant  appears  to  be  restricted  to  deep 
sandy  soils  of  the  Arenosa  and  Padina  series.  The 
Arenosa  series,  which  formed  in  deep  beds  of 
sand,  consists  of  deep  gently  sloping  to  undulat- 
ing, somewhat  excessively  drained  soils  on  up- 
lands; the  solum  ranges  from  80  to  more  than  100 
inches  in  thickness  (U.S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture 1989).  The  Padina  series  consists  of  deep, 
gently  sloping  to  moderately  steep,  well-drained 
soils  on  uplands;  they  formed  in  thick  beds  of 


sandy  material  with  the  solum  ranging  from  70  to 
more  than  80  inches  in  thickness  (U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture  1989). 

Abronia  macrocarpa  was  Usted  as  a  federally  en- 
dangered species  on  September  28, 1988  (U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service  1988)  and  received  listing  as 
an  endangered  species  by  the  state  of  Texas  on 
December  30,  1988  (U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
1992).  Potential  threats  to  the  species  include  oil 
exploration,  resort  and  residential  development, 
off-road  vehicle  use,  the  agricultural  industry, 
browsing  by  deer  and  other  wildlife,  and  fire 
suppression  (U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  1992). 

Abronia  macrocarpa  is  characterized  by  thin- 
walled,  papery  anthocarps  (structure  in  which  the 
fruit  proper  is  united  with  the  perianth)  that  are 
larger  than  those  of  other  species  (Galloway  1972). 
The  plant  is  an  herbaceous  perennial  with  a  long 
taproot,  glandular-pubescent  leaves,  flowers 
grouped  into  a  head,  and  achene  fruits  (Figure  2). 
Plants  form  a  rosette  of  leaves  in  October  and 
overwinter  in  this  stage.  Increase  in  height 
coupled  with  the  onset  of  an  thesis  begins  in  Feb- 
ruary, with  peak  flowering  typically  occurring  in 
March.  The  aboveground  parts  of  the  plants  die 
back  in  late  April  and  May,  with  a  few  lasting  into 
June.  The  plant  survives  the  hot,  dry  summer  with 
the  shoot  apex  and  taproot  buried  in  the  sand. 

The  inflorescence  is  a  capitulum  or  head  typ- 
ically composed  of  25-48  individual  flowers.  The 
average  number  of  flowers  per  inflorescence  is  31 
(Williamson  et  al.  1994).  Five  bracts  subtend  the 


171 


A  fragrans 
A.  angustifolia 
A.  ameliae 
A.  carletoni 
A.  macrocarpa 


Figure  1.  Map  of  Texas  showing  distribution  of  Abronia  ameliae,  A.  angustifolia,  A.  carletonia,  A.  fragrans, 
and  A.  macrocarpa.  All  known  populations  of  A.  macrocarpa  occur  on  private  lands  in  Freestone,  Leon,  and 
Robertson  counties. 


172 


173 


inflorescence  (Figure  2).  The  perianth  consists  of 
five  pink  sepals  fused  around  the  ovary  and  ex- 
tending to  form  a  narrow  floral  tube  averaging  2.0 
cm  in  length  (Figure  2).  The  flower  is  apetalous. 
Nectar  is  secreted  at  the  base  of  the  floral  tube. 
Sugar  content  of  the  nectar  varies  from  25  to  29 
percent  (Williamson  et  al.  1994).  The  stamens  are 
adnate  to  the  floral  tube.  Anthers  are  positioned 
approximately  1.0  cm  above  the  stigma  (Figure  2). 
The  gynoecium  consists  of  a  single  carpel  with  one 
basal  ovule.  The  ovary  is  superior.  The  stigma  is 
linear,  0.1-0.2  cm  long  (averaging  0.14  cm),  cov- 
ered with  papillae,  and  wet  when  receptive 
(Williamson  et  al.  1994).  Flowers  open  at  3:00^:00 
pm  and  close  at  approximately  9:00-10:00  am 
(Williamson  et  al.  1994).  A  sweet  floral  odor  is 
present  when  the  flowers  begin  to  open,  which 
increases  in  intensity  towards  dusk  and  remains 
strong  during  the  night. 

A  study  of  its  pollination  biology  by  William- 
son et  al.  (1994)  revealed  that  A.  macrocarpa  is 
reliant  upon  hawkmoths  and  noctuid  moths  to 
bring  about  cross-pollination  for  successful  fruit 
set.  Williamson  et  al.  (1994)  also  examined  the 
breeding  system  by  experimentally  crossing  plants 
autogamously,  geitonogamously,  and  xenoga- 
mously,  then  monitoring  for  development  of  fruit. 
Flowers  that  were  not  manipulated  served  as 
controls.  Development  of  achenes  signified  that 
fertilization  resulted  from  a  particular  type  of 
pollination.  The  study  showed  that  the  plant  is 
self-incompatible  since  fruit  developed  only  from 
xenogamous  crosses  (49%  fruit  set).  No  fruit  was 
set  in  any  cross  involving  autogamy,  geitonogamy, 
or  in  the  controls.  Failure  to  set  seed  following 
self-pollination  may  be  the  result  of  pre-fertiliza- 
tion  or  post-fertilization  barriers.  This  study  exam- 
ines the  barrier  to  selfing  present  in  this  species. 

Materials  and  Methods 

To  ascertain  that  hand-pollination,  performed 
in  experimental  crosses,  was  carried  out  at  the 
peak  of  stigma  receptivity,  the  timing  of  receptiv- 
ity was  tested  using  the  peroxidase  enzyme  test 
(Zeisler  1938,  Kearns  and  Inouye  1993).  This  test  is 
based  on  the  assumption  that  enzyme  presence 
reflects  stigma  receptivity. 

Peroxidase  tests  were  conducted  on  stigmas  of 
flowers  on  the  first,  second,  and  third  day  of 
blooming.  Stigmas  were  examined  hourly  from  the 
time  the  flowers  opened  (approximately  3:00-4:00 
pm)  imtil  10:00  pm  and  again  the  following  morn- 
ing (approximately  9:00-10:00  am).  Intact  pistils 
were  excised,  placed  in  depression  microscope 


slides,  and  immersed  in  a  solution  of  3%  hydrogen 
peroxide.  At  each  time  interval,  stigmas  were 
observed  for  approximately  5  minutes  using  a 
dissecting  microscope  at  200x  magnification.  The 
occurrence  and  relative  extent  of  bubbling  action 
on  the  stigma  was  used  as  an  indication  of  peroxi- 
dase activity  and  inferred  stigma  receptivity 
(Zeisler  1938,  Arnold  1982,  Macior  1986,  Herrera 
1987,  Osborn  et  al.  1988,  Kearns  and  Inouye  1993). 

Flowers  of  five  greenhouse  grown  plants  and 
29  bagged  plants  growing  in  the  field  were  hand- 
pollinated.  Field  plants  with  developing  floral 
buds  were  covered  with  bags  constructed  of  a 
double  layer  of  bridal  veil  material.  The  plants 
were  enclosed  in  tomato  cages  with  the  bags 
placed  over  the  cages  and  secured  at  the  base  to 
exclude  potential  pollinators.  Bagging  was  not 
deemed  necessary  for  greenhouse  grown  plants 
since  potential  pollinators  are  excluded  from  the 
greenhouses. 

The  following  three  types  of  experimental 
crosses  were  made: 

•  Autogamous  cross:  Plants  were  self-pollinated 
by  transferring  pollen  from  the  anther  to  the 
stigma  of  the  same  flower. 

•  Geitonogamous  cross:  Plants  were  pollinated 
by  transferring  pollen  from  one  flower  to  the 
stigma  of  another  flower  on  the  same  plant. 

•  Xenogamous  cross:  Plants  were  cross-polli- 
nated by  transferring  the  pollen  from  one 
plant  to  the  stigma  of  a  different  plant. 

It  was  necessary  to  emasculate  the  flowers  to 
preclude  self-pollination  and  thereby  control  the 
type  of  cross.  This  was  accomplished  by  removing 
the  portion  of  the  floral  tube  to  which  the  anthers 
are  adnate  prior  to  anther  dehiscence.  Then  pollen 
from  the  same  or  a  different  flower,  as  indicated 
above,  was  smeared  onto  the  receptive  stigma. 
Following  pollination,  flowers  were  fixed  for  use 
in  studying  pollen  germination  and  pollen  tube 
growth. 

Flowers  were  fixed  at  1,  2,  3,  6,  12,  24,  48,  and 
72  hours  and  at  5  and  7  days  following  hand- 
pollination  in  Carnoy's  solution  (Smith  1991, 
Waser  and  Price  1991)  or  in  70%  ethanol  (Mulcahy 
and  Mulcahy  1982,  Aizen  et  al.  1990).  Fixed  tissues 
were  treated  with  IN  NaOH  at  room  temperature 
for  approximately  one  hour  to  soften  and  clear  the 
styles  (Kho  and  Baer  1968).  A  0.01%  decolorized 
aniline  blue  solution  was  prepared  by  dissolving 
aniline  blue  dye  in  K2HPO4,  which  after  one  or 
two  hours  at  room  temperature  becomes  colorless 
(Currier  1957).  Tissues  were  rinsed  in  water  and 


174 


stained  for  24  to  48  hours  in  the  decolorized  aiii- 
line  blue.  Then  tissues  were  mounted  in  a  drop  of 
the  stain  on  a  microscope  slide  and  squashed  with 
a  cover  slip.  Tissues  were  viewed  under  a  Zeiss 
epifluorescent  microscope  using  a  blue  excitation, 
yellow  transmittance  filter.  Pollen  grains  and 
pollen  tubes  with  callose  plugs,  deposited  period- 
ically as  the  pollen  tubes  grow  down  the  style, 
fluoresce  a  yellow  color  using  this  particular  filter 
combination.  The  number  of  pollen  grains  adher- 
ing to  the  stigma,  the  number  germinating  to  form 
pollen  tubes,  the  lengths  of  pollen  tubes,  and  the 
region  of  the  carpel  where  the  tubes  stop  growing 
were  recorded.  Photomicrographs  were  taken 
using  a  Minolta  X700  35  mm  camera  with  Kodak 
ektachrome  tungsten  film  (ASA  64). 

Results 

Peroxidase  enzyme  tests  revealed  that  stigmas 
are  most  receptive  4-5  hours  after  flowers  open  on 
the  first  day  of  blooming.  The  relative  amount  of 
bubbling  action  on  the  stigma  is  indicative  of  the 
level  of  receptivity.  The  extent  of  bubbling  action 
was  greatest  from  7:00  to  9:00  pm.  The  amount  of 
bubbling  decreased  around  10:00  pm.  Very  little 
bubbling  activity  was  observed  by  8:00  am.  Flow- 
ers closed  at  approximately  9:00  am.  The  intensity 
of  bubbling  action  was  again  high  between  7:00 
and  9:00  pm  the  second  day  a  flower  opened. 
Stigmas  are  most  receptive  near  dusk,  which  cor- 
responds to  high  activity  of  the  crepuscular  moths 
serving  as  pollinators. 

Fluorescent  microscopic  examination  of  stig- 
mas following  experimental  crosses  indicates  that 
both  self-  and  cross-pollen  readily  adheres  to  the 
stigmatic  surface  (Table  1).  The  mean  number  of 
self-pollen  grains  present  on  the  stigma  ranges 
from  43  to  98.  A  mean  number  of  61  poUen  grains 
are  present  on  the  stigma  as  long  as  7  days  after 
self-poUination.  The  mean  number  of  cross-pollen 
grains  present  on  stigmas  ranges  from  7  to  96.  The 
lower  mean  numbers  in  certain  xenogamous 
crosses  may  be  the  result  of  smaller  sample  sizes. 

Both  self-  and  cross-pollen  grains  germinate 
forming  pollen  tubes.  As  soon  as  one  hour  follow- 
ing hand-pollination,  63  percent  of  self-pollen  and 
49  percent  of  cross-pollen  have  produced  pollen 
tubes  (Table  1). 

Initial  rates  of  pollen  tube  growth  are  similar 
for  self-  and  cross-pollen  (Figure  3).  However, 
growth  of  self-pollen  tubes  then  ceases.  The  self- 
poUen  tubes  are  capable  of  achieving  lengths  no 
greater  than  0.07  to  0.1  mm  even  when  given  one 
week  in  which  to  grow  (Table  1,  Figure  3).  Cross- 


Table  1.  Pollen  tube  growth  in  experimental  crosses  of 
Abronia  macrocarpa.  Mean  numbers  and  standard 
deviation  (SD)  of  pollen  grains  adhering  to  the  stigma, 
pollen  tubes  penetrating  the  carpel  tissue,  and  lengths 
(mm)  of  pollen  tubes.  The  time  interval  at  which  flowers 
were  fixed  following  hand-pollination  is  indicated  with 
the  type  of  cross.  S  =  self-pollination,  C  =  cross-pollina- 
tion. 


Cross 

No.  of  Grains 
on  Stigma 

No.  of  Pollen 
Tubes 

Length  of 
Pollen  Tubes 

S-1  hr  (N  =  10) 

43  (19) 

27  (17) 

0.07  (0.03) 

S-2  hr  (N=  10) 

57  (37) 

40  (26) 

0.09  (0.02) 

S-3  hr  (N  =  8) 

62  (31) 

38  (24) 

0.09  (0.02) 

S-6  (N  =  4) 

78  (31) 

55  (16) 

0.09  (0.02) 

S-12  (N  =  5) 

98  (55) 

45  (23) 

0.08  (0.01) 

S-24  (N  =  10) 

58  (26) 

29  (17) 

0.07  (0.03) 

S-48  (N  =  9) 

61  (31) 

36  (25) 

0.10  (0.01) 

S-72  (N  =  8) 

50  (31) 

35  (22) 

0.08  (0.02) 

S-120  (N  =  2) 

70  (28) 

35  (18) 

0.08  (0.01) 

S-168  (N  =  6) 

61  (15) 

29  (12) 

0.10  (0.01) 

C-1  (N  =  13) 

39  (28) 

19  (16) 

0.10  (0.03) 

C-2  (N  -  3) 

26  (1) 

15  (1) 

0.10  (0.02) 

C-3  (N  =  2) 

7(4) 

6(4) 

0.13  (0.04) 

C-6  (N  =  2) 

26  (25) 

17(16) 

0.58  (0.00) 

C-12  (N  =  1) 

96  (0) 

27  (0) 

1.26  (0.00) 

C-24  (N  =  4) 

58  (2) 

46  (4) 

2.65  (0.62) 

C-48  (N  =  4) 

41  (38) 

34(37) 

4.03  (0.02) 

C-72  (N  =  1) 

26  (0) 

13  (0) 

4.11  (0.00) 

pollen  tubes,  on  the  other  hand,  continue  to  grow 
extending  into  the  mid-stylar  region  with  a  mean 
length  of  2.65  mm  within  24  hours  and  are  long 
enough  (mean  pollen  tube  length  of  4.11  mm)  to 
reach  the  ovule  within  72  hours  (Table  1,  Figure  3). 

Discussion 

Outcrossing  results  in  greater  genetic  varia- 
bility than  does  selfing.  Flowering  plants  have 
developed  mechanisms  to  promote  outcrossing 
and  prevent  self-fertilization.  Examples  include 
dioecy,  protogyny,  protandry,  and  self-incompati- 
bility systems.  Post-fertilization  barriers  to  seed  set 
in  self-pollinated  flowers,  such  as  embryonic 
lethality,  are  also  known.  The  floral  morphology  of 
A.  macrocarpa  allows  self-pollination  to  occur.  The 
flowers  are  bisexual  and  pollen  dehiscence  occurs 
during  the  time  of  stigma  receptivity.  Since  seed 
does  not  result  through  self-pollination,  it  is 
apparent  that  either  a  pre-fertilization  or  post- 
fertilization  barrier  is  present  in  the  species. 

Pollen  in  experimental  self-pollination  of  A 
macrocarpa  flowers  does  adhere  to  the  stigma  and 


175 


176 


does  germinate,  but  growth  of  self-pollen  tubes  is 
blocked  and  self-fertilization  does  not  take  place. 
A  self-incompatibility  system  apparently  acts  as  a 
pre-fertilization  barrier,  preventing  the  production 
of  seed  following  self-pollination. 

Self-incompatibility  may  result  from  a  variety 
of  mechanisms.  Self-pollen  may  not  adhere  to  the 
stigma,  may  adhere  but  not  germinate,  or  may 
germinate  but  be  unable  to  penetrate  the  carpel  or 
grow  down  the  style  (Richards  1986).  Two  types  of 
self-incompatibility  systems,  sporophytic  and 
gametophytic,  are  generally  recognized.  The  two 
systems  differ  in  site  of  inhibition  and  genetic 
control. 

Although  considered  unrelated,  both  systems 
are  thought  to  have  been  derived  from  proteins 
produced  in  plants  that  are  involved  in  defense 
against  pathogens  (Dickinson  1994).  These 
proteins,  through  a  process  of  selection,  also 
identify  and  reject  self-pollen.  Typically,  self- 
incompatibility  systems  are  under  the  control  of 
one  multiallelic  locus  known  as  the  S-locus.  The 
different  S-alleles  in  a  population  are  designated 
as  SI,  S2,  S3,  etc. 

The  incompatibility  reaction  with  the  female 
tissue  is  mediated  by  the  genotype  of  the  diploid 
anther  that  produced  the  pollen  grain  in  sporo- 
phytic systems  (Kearns  and  Inouye  1993).  The 
system  involves  proteins  produced  by  the  anther 
tapetal  cells  and  deposited  on  the  developing  pol- 
len grains.  Rejection  usually  occurs  at  the  stigma - 
pollen  interface.  The  pollen  may  not  adhere  to  the 
stigma,  may  not  germinate,  or  pollen  tubes  may 
not  be  able  to  penetrate  the  stigmatic  tissue. 

In  a  gametophytic  incompatibility  system,  the 
incompatibility  reaction  with  the  female  tissue  is 
mediated  by  the  genotype  of  the  haploid  pollen 
grain  (Keams  and  Inouye  1993).  Two  S-alleles  are 
expressed  by  the  stigma  and  style  and  one  by  the 
male  gametophyte.  If  the  pollen  S-allele  matches 
one  of  the  two  female  S-alleles,  rejection  occurs. 
The  incompatibility  reaction  results  in  inhibition  of 
pollen  tube  growth  within  the  style  (Kearns  and 
Inouye  1993). 

Plants  exhibiting  gametophytic  systems  typi- 
cally have  flowers  that  produce  binucleate  pollen 
grains  with  long  viability  and  wet  stigmatic  papil- 
lae, whereas  plants  with  sporophytic  systems 
(except  in  heteromorphic  sporophytic  species)  are 
characterized  by  trinucleate  pollen  with  short 
viability  and  dry  stigmas  covered  with  a  cuticle 
(Keams  and  Inouye  1993).  These  characters  have 
yet  to  be  fuUy  analyzed  in  A.  macrocarpa. 


It  is  important  to  note  that  this  paper  reports 
only  preliminary  data.  A  more  complete  study  of 
pollen  tube  growth  is  underway.  Further  analysis 
of  pollen  grains  and  the  stigma  will  be  necessary 
to  determine  the  type  of  self-incompatibility  sys- 
tem operating  in  this  taxon. 

Literature  Cited 

Aizen,  MA.,  K.B.  Searcy,  and  D.L.  Mulcahy.  1990. 
Among-  and  within- flower  variation  comparisons  of 
pollen  tube  growth  following  self-  and  cross-pollina- 
tions in  Dianthus  chinensis  (Caryophyllaceae).  Ameri- 
can Journal  of  Botany  77:671-676. 

Arnold,  R.M.  1982.  Floral  biology  of  Chaenorrhiniim 
minus  (Scrophulariaceae),  a  self-compatible  annual. 
American  Midland  Naturalist  108:317-324. 

Correll,  D.S.,  and  M.C.  Johnston.  1970.  Manual  of  the 
vascular  plants  of  Texas.  Texas  Research  Foundation, 
Renner. 

Currier,  H.B.  1957.  Callose  substance  in  plant  cells. 

American  Journal  of  Botany  44:478-488. 
Dickinson,  H.G.  1994.  Simply  a  social  disease?  Nature 

367:517-518. 

Galloway,  L.A.  1972.  Abronia  macrocarpa  (Nyctagina- 

ceae):  A  new  species  from  Texas.  Brittonia  24:148-149. 
Galloway,  L.A.  1975.  Systematics  of  the  North  American 

desert  species  of  Abronia  and  Tripterocalyx  (Nyctagi- 

naceae).  Brittonia  27:328-347. 
Herrera,  C.M.  1987.  Components  of  pollinator  "quality": 

Comparative  analysis  of  a  diverse  insect  assemblage. 

Oikos  50:79-90. 
Kearns  C.A.,  and  D.W.  Inouye.  1993.  Techniques  for 

pollination  biologists.  University  Press  of  Colorado, 

Niwot. 

Kho,  Y.O.,  and  J.  Baer.  1968.  Observing  pollen  tubes  by 
means  of  fluorescence.  Euphytica  17:298-302. 

Macior,  L.W.  1986.  Floral  resource  sharing  by  bumble- 
bees and  hummingbirds  in  Pedicularis  (Scrophularia- 
ceae) pollination.  Bulletin  of  the  Torrey  Botanical 
Club  113:101-109. 

Mulcahy  G.B.,  and  D.L.  Mulcahy.  1982.  The  two  phases 
of  growth  of  Petunia  hybrida  (Hort.  Vilm-Andz.) 
pollen  tubes  through  compatible  styles.  Journal  of 
Palynology  18:61-64. 

Osborn,  M.M.,  P.G.  Kevan,  and  M.A.  Lane.  1988.  Polli- 
nation biology  of  Opuntia  polyacantha  and  Opuntia 
phaeacantJm  (Cactaceae)  in  southern  Colorado.  Plant 
Systematics  and  Evolution  159:85-94. 

Richards,  A.J.  1986.  Plant  breeding  systems.  George 
Allen  and  Unwin,  London. 

Smith,  G.F.  1991.  Studies  on  the  reproductive  biology 
and  palynology  of  Chortolirion  Berger  (Asphodela- 
ceae:  Alooideae)  in  southern  Africa.  Taxon  40:195- 
200. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  1989.  Soil  Survey  of 
Leon  County,  Texas.  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture, 
Soil  Conservation  Service.  238  pp. 


177 


U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1988.  Endangered  and 
threatened  wildlife  and  plants:  Determination  of 
endangered  status  for  Abronia  macrocarpa  (large- 
fruited  sand  verbena).  Federal  Register  53:37975. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1992.  Large-fruited  sand- 
verbena  {Abronia  macrocarpa)  recovery  plan.  U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  37 
pp. 

Waser  N.M.,  and  M.V.  Price.  1991.  Outcrossing  distance 
effects  in  Delphinium  nelsonii:  Pollen  loads,  pollen 
tubes,  and  seed  set.  Ecology  72: 171-179. 


Williamson,  P.S.,  L.  Muliani,  and  G.K.  Janssen.  1994. 
Pollination  biology  of  Abronia  macrocarpa  (Nyctagi- 
naceae),  an  endangered  Texas  species.  Southwestern 
Naturalist  39:336-341. 

Zeisler,  M.  1938.  Uber  die  Abgrenzung  der  eigentlichen 
Narbenflache  mit  Hilfe  von  Reaktionen.  Beihefte 
zum  Botanisches  Zentralblatt  A  58:  308-318. 


178 


Reintroduction  of  Texas  Wildrice  {Zizania  texana)  in 
Spring  Lake:  Some  Important  Environmental 
and  Biotic  Considerations 

PAULA  J.  POWER 
Biology  Department,  Southwest  Texas  State  University,  San  Marcos  78666 

Abstract:  Texas  wildrice  {Zizania  texana  Hitchc),  an  endangered  macrophyte,  is  endemic  to 
the  San  Marcos  River  and  Spring  Lake  in  Hays  County,  Texas.  Its  population  declined  dra- 
matically betw^een  1940  and  1967.  In  a  reintroduction  program  that  vv^as  initiated  in  1992, 
plants  w^ere  transplanted  into  five  microhabitats  at  a  density  of  10  plants/m^.  Seasonal 
monitoring  identified  an  initial  increase  in  plant  size  follow^ed  by  high  mortality  in  three  of 
five  sites.  Data  suggest  that  stem  density  is  a  good  indicator  of  future  transplant  success  and 
that  current  velocity  is  an  important  environmental  factor  associated  with  transplant  success. 
However,  herbivores  have  continually  clipped  reproductive  culms  just  below  the  water  sur- 
face. This  limits  transplants  to  clonal  reproduction. 


Introduction 

Texas  wildrice  {Zizania  texana  Hitchc.)  is  an 
emergent  macrophyte  in  the  family  Poaceae.  It  has 
long  ribbon-like  submerged  leaves  and  reproduc- 
tive culms  that  arise  from  the  base  of  the  plant. 
Each  culm  has  an  emergent  terminal  inflorescence, 
allowing  for  wind  pollination.  Culms  root  at  the 
nodes,  producing  tillers,  which  is  a  form  of  clonal 
reproduction. 

Zizania  texana  is  endemic  to  the  first  2.4  km  of 
the  San  Marcos  River  and  Spring  Lake,  Hays 
County,  Texas,  the  headwaters  of  which  are 
springs  arising  from  the  Edwards  Aquifer.  The 
springs  are  located  in  Spring  Lake.  Historically,  Z. 
texana  was  abundant  in  Spring  Lake,  the  San 
Marcos  River,  and  adjoining  irrigation  ditches 
(Watkins  1930,  Silveus  1933,  Devall  1940).  During 
the  first  half  of  this  century,  Z.  texana,  like  many 
macrophytes,  was  considered  a  pest  species  and 
efforts  were  made  to  control  the  growth  of  the 
plant  (Watkins  1930,  Emery  1967).  Between  1933 
and  1967  the  population  declined  significantly, 
and  after  1977  Z.  texana  occurred  only  in  the  first 
2.4  km  of  the  San  Marcos  River  (Emery  1977). 

Zizania  texana  is  now  listed  as  an  endangered 
species  by  both  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
and  the  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department 
(U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  1985).  Factors 
threatening  the  survival  of  Z.  texana  include  re- 
duced spring  flow  from  the  San  Marcos  springs 
due  to  overpumping  of  the  Edwards  Aquifer, 
reduced  water  quality  in  the  San  Marcos  River 
from  nonpoint  source  pollution,  competition  and 
predation  by  nonnative  species  such  as  nutria 
{Myocaster  coypus),  absence  of  sexual  reproduction. 


and  alteration  of  sediments  in  the  river  bottom 
(U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  1984).  Alteration  of 
the  river  sediments  includes  deposition  of  fine 
organic  and  inorganic  particles  due  to  reduction  in 
frequency  and  magnitude  of  historic  flooding 
cycles,  and  coarse  gravel  deposition  from  soil 
erosion  in  the  immediate  water  shed. 

Twice  during  the  past  20  years  Z.  texana  has 
been  transplanted  from  captive  populations  on  the 
Southwest  Texas  State  (SWT)  campus  into  the  San 
Marcos  River  in  attempts  to  increase  the  naturally 
occurring  population.  There  were  no  long-term 
survivors  in  either  case  (W.H.P.  Emery,  personal 
communication,  Fonteyn  and  Power  1990). 

Monitoring  a  plant  population  concerns  the 
quantitative  assessment  of  the  population  over 
time  using  data  derived  from  individual  plants, 
which  allows  managers  to  detect  important 
changes  in  health,  vigor,  and  reproductive  poten- 
tial, as  well  as  identify  demographic  trends  such  as 
adult  survivorship  and  seedling  recruitment. 
These  measurements  are  vital  in  evaluating  the 
long-term  success  of  a  reintroduction  program 
(Palmer  1987,  Pavlik  and  Barbour  1988).  The 
objective  of  this  project,  which  will  be  completed 
in  1996,  is  the  reintroduction  of  Z.  texana  into 
different  microhabitats  in  Spring  Lake,  and  the 
monitoring  of  the  status  of  the  transplants  in  each 
microhabitat.  The  outcome  of  the  study  will  pro- 
vide managers  with  important  information  neces- 
sary for  decisions  with  respect  to  San  Marcos  River 
and  watershed  management,  as  well  as  insights 
into  appropriate  environmental  conditions  for 
more  successful  transplantation  into  the  San  Mar- 
cos River. 


179 


Methods  and  Materials 

Spring  Lake  is  an  impoundment  formed  by  a 
dam  originally  constructed  across  the  San  Marcos 
River  in  1849,  approximately  600  m  downstream 
from  the  San  Marcos  Springs.  As  recently  as  1940, 
Z.  texana  occupied  a  relatively  large  area  of  the 
lake  (Devall  1940),  but  it  was  extirpated  from  the 
lake  by  1986,  due,  in  part,  to  bottom  plowing  of 
Spring  Lake  (Silveus  1933,  Emery  1977).  Spring 
Lake  was  selected  as  a  study  site  because  it  is  part 
of  the  historic  habitat  of  Z.  texana,  there  is  limited 
public  access,  and  a  variety  of  microhabitats  are 
present.  Five  sites  were  selected  in  the  lake  (Figure 
1).  Each  site  differed  with  respect  to  water  depth 
and  current  velocity  (Table  1).  Water  depth  was 
defined  as  shallow  (<lm),  moderate  (1-2  m),  and 
deep  (>2  m).  Current  velocity  was  the  average  of 
measurements  taken  at  20,  60,  and  80  percent 
depth,  and  was  defined  as  slow  (<0.04  m/s),  mod- 
erate (0.04-0.1  m/s),  and  fast  (>0.1  m/s).  Two  sites 
were  partially  shaded  by  overhanging  trees.  Sedi- 
ment texture  was  similar  in  all  sites.  The  Wetland 
(WT)  site  was  shallow,  had  no  detectable  current, 
and  was  in  full  sun;  the  Transition  (TR)  site  was 
shallow,  had  slow  current  velocity,  and  was  in  full 
sun.  Water  depth  at  the  Riverine  (RV)  site  ranged 
from  shallow  to  deep,  current  velocity  ranged 
from  slow  to  moderate,  and  the  site  was  in  partial 
shade.  The  Springs  (SP)  site  was  within  15  m  of 
spring  openings.  Water  depth  was  deep,  current 
velocity  was  slow,  and  the  site  was  in  full  sun. 
Water  depth  at  the  Spillway  (SW)  site  varied  from 
shallow  to  moderate,  current  velocity  ranged  from 
moderate  to  fast,  and  the  site  was  in  partial  shade. 

Plants  used  for  reintroduction  were  grown 
from  seed  in  10  cm  peat  pots  filled  with  mud  col- 
lected from  ponds  on  the  SWT  campus.  Plants 
were  grown  in  slow-flowing  water,  in  an  outdoor 
cement  raceway  on  the  SWT  campus.  When  plants 
had  3-5  stems  and  leaves  were  approximately  0.75 
m  long,  they  were  transported  in  ice  chests  to 
Spring  Lake.  Field  assistants  in  scuba  gear,  using  a 
1  m'^  quadrat,  planted  transplants  at  a  density  of 
10  plants /m  2. 

Sixty  transplants  were  planted  in  WT,  TR,  and 
RV  in  winter  1992  as  part  of  a  habitat  study  (see 
Rose  and  Power  1992).  One  hundred  and  fifty 
plants  were  added  to  RV  during  fall  1992,  500 
were  planted  in  SP  during  fall  1993,  and  160  were 
planted  in  SW  during  winter  1995. 

Monitoring  of  Z.  texana  transplants  began  in 
winter  1994.  Belt  transects,  0.25  m  x  10  m,  were 
randomly  placed  parallel  to  the  current  in  each 


site.  Initially,  two  transects  were  employed;  during 
summer  1995,  the  number  of  transects  was  in- 
creased to  three  based  on  Eberhardt  and  Thomas 
(1^91).  The  total  number  of  plants  intersecting  the 
transect  was  recorded.  From  these  data,  plant 
density  was  calculated.  Four  plants  intersecting 
the  transect  were  randomly  selected  for  measure- 
ment. The  lengths  of  5-6  leaves  were  recorded. 
Stem  density  was  measured  by  placing  a  three- 
sided,  10  cm  x  10  cm  frame  at  the  base  of  each 
plant  and  counting  the  number  of  stems  within  the 
frame.  The  distinction  was  made  between  sub- 
merged leaves  and  reproductive  culms.  For  each 
culm  in  the  frame,  the  number  of  nodes  with  roots 
was  recorded.  The  presence  of  an  inflorescence  or 
signs  of  herbivory  were  also  recorded. 

Results 

Transplants  at  WT,  TR,  and  RV  were  planted 
in  January  1992  (Table  2).  Plants  at  WT  survived 
one  growing  season,  very  few  plants  survived  at 
TR  until  1994,  and  RV  plants  have  survived  to  the 
present.  A  few  plants  survived  at  SP  but  were  lost 
by  summer  1995.  The  plants  at  SW,  planted  in 
January  1995,  appear  very  healthy  at  this  time. 

Plant  density  dropped  from  an  initial  density 
of  10  plants  per  m^  in  all  sites.  In  RV,  plant  density 
has  fluctuated  between  approximately  2.5  and  3.5 
plants  per  m^  since  fall  1994  (Figure  2).  Plant  den- 
sity at  SW  also  dropped  after  transplanting,  but  it 
remains  to  be  seen  the  extent  to  which  plant  den- 
sity will  fluctuate  in  the  future  (Figure  3). 

Leaves  in  all  sites  decreased  in  length  during 
spring,  summer,  and  fall  1994  (Figure  4).  Plants  in 
TR  did  not  recover  from  the  loss,  and  eventually 
died.  Plants  in  RV  and  SP  recovered  during  winter 
1995,  but  again  showed  a  loss  in  leaf  length  during 
spring  and  summer  1995.  Plants  in  SP  were  lost 
after  spring  1995. 

Plants  in  all  sites  showed  an  increase  in  stem 
density  after  transplanting  at  an  initial  density  of 
3-5  stems  (Figure  5).  Plants  in  TR,  RV,  and  SP 
showed  a  decrease  in  stem  density  during  summer 
and  fall  1994.  Plants  at  TR  did  not  recover.  Plants 
at  RV  and  SP  recovered  from  the  loss  of  stem  den- 
sity, but  showed  a  second  decline  during  spring 
and  summer  1995.  Plants  remaining  at  SP  were 
lost  during  summer,  1995. 

Plants  at  RV  and  SW  produced  reproductive 
culms  and  tillers  (Table  3).  Plants  at  RV  produced 
more  culms  and  tillers  than  plants  at  SW.  Over 
half  of  all  reproductive  culms  at  RV  and  8.3  per- 
cent of  reproductive  cukns  at  SW  were  clipped  by 


180 


Figure  1.  Spring  Lake,  San  Marcos,  Hays  County,  Texas.  Zizania  texana  was  reintroduced  into  Spring  Lake 
in  five  sites  between  1992  and  1995.  Sites  were  Wetland  (WT),  Transition  (TR),  Riverine  (RV),  Springs  (SP) 
and  Spillway  (SW). 


181 


Table  1.  Ranges  for  current  velocity,  water  depth,  light,  and  soil  characteristics  found  in  Zizania  texana  reintroduction 
sites  in  Spring  Lake.  Observations  and  measurements  were  collected  between  1992  and  1995;  +  =  presence;  0  = 
absence. 


WT 

TR 

RV 

SP 

SW 

Light 

Full  sun 

Full  sun 

Partial  sun 

Full  sun 

Partial  sun 

Sediment 

Soft  mud 

Soft  mud 

Soft  mud 

Soft  mud 

Mud/ sand /gravel 

Water  depth  (m) 

0.31 

0.76 

0.91-2.04 

2.3-4.3 

0.70-1.13 

Current  velocity  (m/s) 

0 

0.027 

0.038-0.079 

0.030-0.038 

0.088-0.345 

Survivorship 

0 

0 

+ 

0 

+ 

Table  2.  Zizania  texana  in  five  reintroduction  sites  in  Spring  Lake,  Hays  County,  Texas;  +  =  presence,  0  =  absence. 

Year  WT 

TR 

RV 

SP 

SW 

1992  + 

+ 

+ 

1993  0 

+ 

+ 

1994  0 

0 

+ 

+ 

1995  0 

0 

+ 

0 

+ 

Table  3.  The  data  below  represent  reproductive  activity  by  Zizania  texana  grown  in  two  sites  in  Spring  Lake  during 
summer  1995.  Culms  represent  sexual  reproductive  activity;  tillers  represent  asexual  reproductive  activity.  Data  were 
collected  from  three  transects  in  each  site;  SD  in  parentheses. 


No.  Culms/ 

Percent  Clipped 

No.  Emergent 

No.  Tillers/ 

Plant 

Culms 

Inflorescences 

Plant 

RV 

3.44 

53 

0 

3.58 

(1.073) 

(31.4) 

(1.843) 

SW 

1.25 

8.3 

0 

0.42 

(1.146) 

(14.4) 

(0.723) 

herbivores.  Culms  that  were  not  clipped  w^ere  all 
wellbelow^  the  v/ater  surface.  There  v^ere  no  emer- 
gent inflorescences  at  either  site. 

Discussion 

Monitoring  plants  has  identified  some  impor- 
tant relationships  between  environmental  factors 
and  health  and  vigor  of  Z.  texana  transplants.  For 
example,  plants  in  sites  with  no  detectable  to  slow 
current  had  high  mortality,  while  plants  in  sites 
with  moderate  to  fast  current  velocity  had  survi- 
vors. Rose  and  Power  (1994)  examined  the  rela- 
tionship between  current  velocity  and  culm  pro- 
duction, and  suggested  that  culm  production  may 
increase  in  flowing  water  either  by  mechanical 
stimulation  of  the  meristem  or  physiological 


enrichment.  In  contrast,  there  was  no  consistent 
relationship  between  survivorship  and  water 
depth,  suggesting  that  water  depth  does  not  play 
as  critical  a  role  in  transplant  success  (Table  1). 

During  1994  and  1995,  losses  in  leaf  length  and 
stem  density  were  followed  by  periods  of  recovery 
in  some  sites  (Figures  4  and  5).  Plants  in  TR  failed 
to  recover  from  losses  of  plant  material  in  1994 
and  plants  in  SP  failed  to  recover  in  1995.  Damage 
to  leaves  and  stems  was  probably  due,  in  part,  to 
floating  and  drifting  mats  of  aquatic  vegetation, 
which  is  mechanically  cut  upstream  by  Aquarena 
Springs,  a  nature  theme  park.  Despite  attempts  to 
harvest  cuttings,  some  cuttings  drift  downstream, 
form  mats  that  tend  to  accumulate  in  spring  and 
summer  during  peak  growing  periods,  and  u  en 


182 


CM 


CM 


CO 


O 
ID 

CM 
CO 


CM 


o 
£2- 

CD 


in 

CM 
CO 

in 

Q. 
CO 


o 
in 

in 

CT> 
CO 


Figure  2.  Plant  density  of  Zizania  texana  transplants  in  Spring  Lake  at  RV  site  between  winter  1992  and 
summer  1995.  No  data  are  available  for  1992  and  1993.  Time  since  transplanting  in  parentheses. 


break  up  during  fall  and  winter.  The  mats,  com- 
posed primarily  of  Cerataphyllum  demersum,  be- 
come entangled  in  Z.  texana  leaves,  shredding 
them.  The  mats  block  sunlight  and  slow  current 
velocity  (Rose  and  Power  1995).  Zizania  texana 
plants  appear  to  recover  from  the  damage  attrib- 
uted to  the  mats  during  fall  and  winter. 

In  summer  1995,  plants  in  SW  and  RV  pro- 
duced reproductive  culms  and  asexual  tillers 
(Table  3).  It  is  unknown  at  this  time  whether  the 
lower  number  of  culms  and  tillers  in  SW  com- 
pared with  RV  is  attributable  to  the  age  of  trans- 
plants or  environmental  conditions. 

Reproductive  failure  has  been  noted  many 
times  as  a  serious  threat  to  the  survival  of  Z. 
texana,  but  there  has  been  no  documentation  of  the 
cause  of  reproductive  failure  (Emery  1967,  1977, 
Terrell  et  al.  1978,  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
1984).  In  this  study  we  identified  herbivory  as  an 


important  contributor  to  reproductive  failure. 
Over  half  the  culms  at  the  RV  site  were  clipped 
and  8.3  percent  of  culms  were  clipped  at  the  SW 
site.  All  culms  close  to  the  surface  were  clipped, 
precluding  seed  production.  Field  observations 
suggest  that  some  important  herbivores  include 
crawfish,  near  the  base  of  the  plant;  nutria,  which 
was  first  introduced  to  Hays  County  after  1960 
(Texas  Agricultural  Extension  Service  1987);  and 
resident  waterfowl,  including  swans,  mallards, 
and  muscovy  ducks,  which  are  encouraged  by 
Aquarena  Springs  employees  with  supplemental 
feed  to  remain  throughout  the  year  for  the  amuse- 
ment of  Aquarena  Springs  guests.  With  the  loss  of 
all  inflorescences  by  herbivory,  transplants  are 
limited  to  clonal  reproduction. 

Will  Z.  texana  persist  in  Spring  Lake?  Histori- 
cally, emergent  reproductive  culms  were  a  com- 
mon occurrence  in  the  San  Marcos  River  and 


183 


in 


in 

CVJ 

in 

Q. 


o 
in 

in 


Figure  3.  Plant  density  of  Zizania  texana  transplants  in  Spring  Lake  at  SW  site  between  winter  1995  and 
summer  1995.  Time  since  transplanting  in  parentheses. 


2.5-1 


2- 


1.5- 


O) 

c 
-J 

0) 


0.5 


0 


5  / 


i 
i 


\ 


\ 


 1  1 —     I  1  1  1  1 

W'94  Sp*94   S'94    F '94    W'95  Sp '95   S '95 


Figure  4.  Leaf  length  of  Zizania  texana  transplants  grown  in  TR,  RV,  SP,  and  SW  sites  in  Spring  Lake. 


184 


30-1 


25- 


I  20- 

o 
o 

15 

'in 
c 

Q) 
Q 

I  10 
(J) 


/\ 
/  \ 

/ 


1  \ 


\ 


0 


\  \  \  I  \  \ 

W  '94   Sp  '94    S  '94     F  '94    W  '95    Sp  '95    S  '95 


Figure  5.  Stem  density  of  Zimnia  texana  transplants  grown  in  TR,  RV,  SP,  and  SW  sites  in  Spring  Lake. 


185 


Spring  Lake  (Devall  1940,  Silveus  1933,  Watkins 
1930).  Today,  however,  reproductive  culms  are 
under  an  onslaught  of  herbivore  activity,  and 
there  is  no  new  recruitment  by  seed.  In  addition, 
literally  tons  of  drifting  aquatic  vegetation  become 
entangled  in  Z.  texann  plants,  blocking  sunlight, 
slowing  current  velocity,  and  damaging  leaves. 
Zizania  texana  's  existence  in  Spring  Lake  is  further 
jeopardized  by  reduced  spring  flow  from  the  Ed- 
wards Aquifer  and  possibly  competition  for  space 
and  light  from  introduced  macrophytes.  Zizania 
texana  has  persisted  in  RV  and  SW  despite  these 
insults.  Monitoring  these  sites  through  1996  will 
provide  the  additional  data  necessary  to  draw 
conclusions  about  the  long-term  status  of  Z.  texana 
in  Spring  Lake. 

Acknowledgment 

Special  thanks  to  Mr.  R.  Richter,  Mr.  R.  Perry, 
Mr.  M.  Apodakis,  Mr.  C.  Wood  and  Mr.  D.  Solanik 
for  assistance  with  field  work. 

Literature  Cited 

Devall,  L.L.  1940.  A  comparative  study  of  plant  domi- 
nance in  a  spring  fed  lake.  Master's  thesis.  Southwest 
Texas  State  University. 

Eberhardt,  L.L.  and  J.M.  Thomas.  1991.  Designing  envi- 
ronmental field  studies.  Ecological  Monographs 
61(l):53-73. 

Emery,  W.H.P.  1967.  The  decline  and  threatened  extinc- 
tion of  Texas  wildrice  {Zizania  texana  Hitchc).  South- 
western Naturalist  12(2):203-204. 

Emery,  W.H.P.  1977.  Current  status  of  Texas  wildrice 
{Zizania  texana  Hitchc).  Southwestern  Naturalist 
22(3):393-394. 

Fonteyn,  P.J.  and  P.  Power.  1989.  Texas  wildrice,  interim 
report.  Submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Region  2.  pp.  1-10. 

Palmer,  M.E.  1987.  A  critical  look  at  rare  plant  monitor- 
ing in  the  United  States.  Biological  Conservation 
39:113-127. 


Pavlik,  B.M.  and  M.G.  Barbour.  1988.  Demographic 
monitoring  of  endemic  sand  dune  plants  Eureka  Val- 
ley, California.  Biological  Conservation  46:217-242. 

Rose,  F.L.  and  P.  Power.  1992.  Effects  of  habitat  and 

-  herbivory  on  growth  and  reproduction  in  Texas 
wildrice  {Zizania  texana).  Report  submitted  to  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Region  2.  pp.  1-20. 

Rose,  F.L.  and  P.  Power.  1994.  Continued  maintenance, 
reintroduction  and  research  on  Zizania  texana  (Texas 
wildrice).  IV.  Growth  response  by  Zizania  texana 
(Texas  wildrice)  under  three  current  regimes  and 
two  sediments  in  Spring  Lake,  Hays  County,  Texas. 
Report  submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Region  2. 

Rose,  F.L.  and  P.  Power.  1995.  Continued  maintenance, 
reintroduction  and  research  on  Zizania  texana  (Texas 
wildrice).  VIII.  Direct  and  indirect  effects  of  aquatic 
vegetation  mats  on  Texas  wildrice  {Zizania  texana). 
Submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  &  Wildlife  Service,  Region  2. 

Silveus,  W.A.  1933.  Texas  Grasses,  Classification  and 
Description  of  Grasses.  The  Clegg  Co.,  San  Antonio, 
Texas. 

Terrell,  E.E.,  W.H.P.  Emery  and  H.E.  Beaty.  1978.  Obser- 
vations on  Zizania  texana  (Texas  wildrice),  an  endan- 
gered species.  Bulletin  of  the  Torrey  Botanical  Club 
105:50-57. 

Texas  Agricultural  Extension  Service.  1987.  Identifying 
and  Managing  Aquatic  Rodents  in  Texas:  Beaver, 
Nutria  and  Muskrats.  Texas  A&M.  pp.  1-46. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1984.  San  Marcos  River 
Recovery  Plan.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Albu- 
querque, New  Mexico,  pp.  41-58. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1985.  Endangered  and 
threatened  wildlife  and  plant  taxa  for  listing  as 
endangered  or  threatened  species.  Federal  Register 
5C(188):39526-39584. 

Watkins,  G.M.  1930.  Vegetation  of  San  Marcos  Springs. 
Master's  thesis,  University  of  Texas  at  Austin,  pp.  1- 
53. 


186 


Cattle  and  Elk  Herbivory  on  Arizona  Willow  {Salix  arizonica) 

SCOTT  STROHMEYER  and  JOYCE  MASCHINSKI 
The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  P.O.  Box  670,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86002 

Abstract:  Nearly  62  percent  of  Arizona  willow,  Salix  arizonica  Dorn,  populations  in  Arizona 
have  experienced  reduced  size  and  vigor  due  to  herbivorV/  yet  the  identity  of  the  herbivores 
has  been  unknown.  Ninety  Arizona  willows  were  planted  at  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff  on 
the  inside  and  outside  of  an  enclosure  surrounded  by  a  10-foot  deer  fence  to  determine 
whether  cattle  and /or  wild  ungulates  ate  them.  The  plants  inside  the  deer  fence  were  either 
protected  from  herbivory  as  controls  or  were  exposed  to  cattle,  while  those  outside  were 
subject  to  herbivory  by  elk,  Cerviis  elaphiis,  mule  deer,  Odocoileus  hemionus,  pronghorn, 
Antilocapra  amencana,  and  a  variety  of  rodents  and  lagomorphs.  The  results  indicate  that  both 
cattle  and  wild  ungulates  browse  the  willows.  Qualitative  observations  suggest  that  elk 
browse  the  willows  more  intensely  than  either  deer  or  antelope.  An  analysis  of  mean  plant 
height,  mean  total  shoot  biomass,  mean  branch  length,  and  total  number  of  branches  before 
and  after  the  experimental  time  frame  concluded  that  all  parameters  were  lowest  in  the  wild 
ungulate  group,  intermediate  in  the  cattle  group,  and  highest  in  the  control.  Duration  of 
exposure  to  herbivory  in  the  wild  and  cattle  groups  contributed  to  the  amount  of  tissue  lost 
during  the  course  of  the  study. 


Introduction 

Arizona  willow,  Salix  arizonica  Dorn,  is  pro- 
tected by  the  Arizona  Native  Plant  Law  and  is 
included  on  the  list  of  Forest  Service  Sensitive 
Species  for  the  Intermountain  and  Southwestern 
regions.  (See  Prendusi  et  al.,  this  volume,  for  a 
complete  description  of  the  species  status.)  Fiabitat 
loss,  degradation,  and  other  human-related  activi- 
ties are  believed  to  have  changed  the  fragile,  high- 
elevation  riparian  areas  in  which  the  plant  lives  as 
well  as  threaten  the  long-term  status  of  the  species 
(Arizona  Willow  Interagency  Technical  CorrLmittee 
[AWITC]  1995).  Herbivory  by  both  cattle  and  wild 
ungulates  has  been  implicated  as  a  threat  to  the 
species.  Associated  herd  movements  also  contrib- 
ute to  degradation  of  the  species'  habitat,  i.e., 
stream  bank  erosion,  loss  of  colonization  sites, 
increased  stream  sedimentation,  and  trampHng  of 
small  plants  (AWITC  1995).  Nearly  62  percent  of 
Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica)  populations  in 
Arizona  have  experienced  reduced  size  and  vigor 
due  to  herbivory,  yet  the  identity  of  the  herbivores 
has  been  unknown. 

Both  wild  and  domestic  ungulates  can  greatly 
impact  riparian  areas  and  the  species  that  live 
there.  In  the  Southwest,  riparian  areas  form  nar- 
row corridors,  where  plants  and  animals  concen- 
trate because  of  the  need  for  water  (AWITC  1995). 
Due  to  the  large  numbers  of  animals  using  ripar- 
ian areas,  impacts  can  be  severe.  For  example, 
domestic  livestock  inhabit  307  million  acres  of 
federal  land  and  212  milHon  acres  of  private  land 


in  11  contiguous  western  states  (Armour  et  al. 
1994).  Large  concentrations  of  animals  can  ad- 
versely affect  plant  density  and  vigor.  Sites  where 
cattle  grazing  is  common  show  significantly  lower 
willow  densities  than  ungrazed  sites  (Bryant  and 
Wieland  1985). 

Although  factors  such  as  drv^  weather,  lowered 
water  tables,  and  changes  in  hydraulic  patterns  are 
thought  to  cause  declines  in  willow  communities, 
herbivory  and  trampling  by  native  ungulates  also 
have  been  documented  as  adversely  impacting 
willo-ws  (Singer  et  al.  1994).  Activities  associated 
with  wild  ungulates,  such  as  trampling  and  rub- 
bing antlers  on  the  plants,  can  cause  severe  root 
dieback  (Medina  1991).  It  appears  that  willow 
herbivory  is  common  in  nature,  but  the  magnitude 
and  timing  of  the  herbivory  are  the  critical  factors 
that  influence  willow  populations  (Galeano-Popp 
1988,  Granfelt  1989,  AWITC  1995). 

Because  both  wild  ungulates  and  cattle  utilize 
riparian  areas  in  Arizona  willow  habitat,  the  im- 
pacts of  the  various  species  are  difficult  to  sepa- 
rate. Galeano-Popp  (1988)  stated  that  Arizona 
willow  was  palatable  to  both  elk  and  cattle,  but 
she  did  not  know  whether  they  were  preferentially 
selected  or  to  what  degree  this  food  source  was 
selected;  however,  she  believed  the  effects  of 
grazing  by  both  wild  and  domestic  ungulates  were 
additive.  We  established  a  controlled  experiment 
at  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff  to  examine  the 
separate  effects  of  wild  and  domestic  ungulate 
browsing  on  Arizona  willow  growth. 


187 


Materials  and  Methods 

The  study  was  conducted  during  late  July  and 
early  August  1995.  Arizona  willow  plants  were 
propagated  from  stem  cuttings  taken  from  parent 
plants  growing  in  the  White  Mountains.  In  August 
1994,  after  plants  achieved  adequate  root  mass, 
they  were  planted  along  the  Sinclair  Wash  drain- 
age inside  and  outside  an  existing  10-foot  fence 
that  was  used  to  exclude  the  wild  ungulates. 
Plants  outside  the  fence  were  protected  with  cag- 
ing until  November  1994,  in  order  to  allow  them  to 
become  established  before  being  exposed  to  her- 
bivory. 

Ninety  plants  were  established  that  were  ran- 
domly assigned  to  one  of  three  groups.  Control 
plants  were  selected  by  placing  plant  numbers  into 
a  hat  and  having  a  non-biased  observer  extract  the 
numbers.  The  three  groups  constituted  30  control 
plants  that  were  caged  or  fenced  from  herbivory, 
30  cattle  plants  that  were  exposed  to  cattle  herbiv- 
ory but  not  wild  ungulate  herbivory,  and  30  wild 
plants  that  were  exposed  to  wild  ungulate  herbiv- 
ory but  not  cattle  herbivory. 

Populations  of  this  willow  on  the  Apache- 
Sitgreaves  National  Forest  are  exposed  to  wild 
ungulates  all  year  and  to  domestic  ungulates  on  a 
rotating  basis  for  10-30  days  under  current  man- 
agement. To  imitate  the  natural  exposure  plants 
have  to  herbivory,  plants  in  the  wild  ungulate 
group  were  exposed  to  herbivory  for  10  months 
and  plants  in  the  cattle  group  were  exposed  for  10 
days. 

The  area  outside  the  10-foot  fence  is  visited  by 
elk,  Cervus  elaphus,  mule  deer,  Odocoileus  hemionus, 
pronghom,  Antilocapra  americana,  and  a  variety  of 
rodents  and  lagomorphs.  These  animals  are  seen 
on  a  regular  basis  in  the  large  meadow  where  the 
experimental  Arizona  willows  were  planted. 
During  the  course  of  the  experiment,  tracks  and 
scat  found  in  this  area  were  noted  to  attempt  to 
identify  any  wild  animals  feeding  on  Arizona 
wiUow. 

To  expose  these  plants  to  a  controlled  level  of 
cattle  herbivory  for  a  controlled  duration,  three 
cows  were  contained  in  approximately  3  acres 
with  30  exposed  Arizona  willows  for  ten  days.  The 
study  plot  was  designed  to  mimic  the  environ- 
ment encountered  by  the  cows  in  their  natural 
grazing  areas.  A  3-acre  pen  was  constructed  using 
barbed  wire  and  T-posts,  enclosing  an  area  with 
ample  amounts  of  shade  from  ponderosa  pine 
trees,  a  watering  trough  near  the  willows  to 


provide  an  optimal  supply  of  water,  and  ample 
vegetation  for  browse.  Besides  Arizona  willows, 
other  plants  found  in  the  study  plot  included 
smooth  brome  {Bromus  inermis  Leyss),  Arizona 
fescue  {Festuca  arizonica  Vasey),  deergrass  {MvHi- 
lenhergia  rigens  (Benth.)  Hitchc),  ponderosa  pine 
(Pinus  ponderosa  Lawson),  Carex  spp.,  and  a  variety 
of  herbaceous  plants.  After  caging  the  control 
plants  within  the  pen,  three  cows  were  put  into  the 
pasture.  The  cows  were  all  females,  and  one  was  a 
calf  that  had  not  been  completely  weaned;  there- 
fore, there  were  effectively  two  and  a  half  cows. 

Plant  height,  total  number  of  branches,  and 
total  branch  lengths  were  measured  in  October 

1994,  both  before  the  arrival  of  the  cows  on  July  21, 

1995,  and  after  10  days  of  exposure  to  cattle  her- 
bivory. Total  shoot  biomass  was  calculated  by 
dividing  total  shoot  lengths  per  plant  by  6.25,  the 
mean  shoot  length  of  1  gram  of  wiUow  (Maschin- 
ski,  unpublished  data).  Throughout  the  cattle  visit, 
we  noted  the  different  plants  that  were  eaten  and 
approximate  order  of  preference  of  other  exposed 
plants.  Data  were  statistically  analyzed  using  a 
repeated  measures  analysis  of  variance. 

Results 

Both  cattle  and  wild  ungulates  browsed  Ari- 
zona willows  under  the  experimental  conditions 
imposed.  Plant  height  was  equal  in  all  groups  in 
August  1994,  but  was  significantly  decreased  in 
the  wild  group  by  June  1995  and  in  both  the  wild 
and  cattle  groups  by  July  1995  (F  =  11.94,  p  < 
0.0001,  Figure  1)  after  exposure  to  both  cattle  and 
wild  ungulates. 

Similarly,  the  total  number  of  branches  was 
equal  across  groups  in  August  1994,  but  was 
significantly  decreased  in  all  groups  by  June  1995 
(F  =  3.83,  p  =  0.005,  Figure  2).  By  July  1995,  the 
cattle  and  wild  groups  had  64  percent  and  57 
percent  fewer  branches  than  controls,  respectively 
(Figure  2).  While  control  plants  increased  mean 
branch  length  from  August  1994  to  June  1995  and 
maintained  equal  branch  length  until  July,  mean 
branch  length  decreased  by  a  significant  19  per- 
cent in  the  cattle  group  and  16  percent  in  the  wild 
group  by  July  1995  (F  =  5.29,  p  <  0.0005,  Figure  3). 

Total  shoot  biomass  varied  across  measure- 
ment time  and  group  (F  =  7.80,  p  <  0.00001,  Figure 
4)  significantly.  At  the  beginning  of  the  study,  in 
August  1994,  control  plants  had  15  percent  less 
total  shoot  biomass  than  the  cattle  group,  while 
the  wild  group  had  slightly,  but  not  significantly 
less  total  shoot  biomass  than  the  cattle  group. 


188 


Aug94  Jul95  Aug95 

Figure  1.  Mean  plant  height  of  Arizona  willow  plants  in  control,  cattle,  and  wild  groups  measured  at  three  different 
times.  Note  that  cattle  group  plants  were  exposed  to  cattle  herbivory  for  10  days  between  July  95  and  Aug  95  read- 
ings, whereas  wild  group  plants  were  exposed  to  wild  ungulate  herbivory  from  November  1994  to  August  1995. 


12 

CO 

0 

o 

10 

c 

CD 

8 

o 

a5 

6 

£ 

4 

c 

CD 

2 

CD 

0 

Aug94     Jul95  Aug95 


Figure  2.  Mean  number  of  branches  per  Arizona  willow  plant  in  control,  cattle,  and  wild  groups  measured  at  three 
different  times.  Note  that  cattle  group  plants  were  exposed  to  cattle  herbivory  for  10  days  between  July  95  and  Aug 
95  readings,  whereas  wild  group  plants  were  exposed  to  wild  ungulate  herbivory  November  1994- August  1995. 


189 


■  Control 
□  Cattle 
^  Wild 


Figure  3.  Mean  branch  length  per  Arizona  willow  plant  in  control,  cattle,  and  wild  groups  measured  at  three  different 
times.  Note  that  cattle  group  plants  were  exposed  to  cattle  herbivory  for  10  days  between  July  95  and  Aug  95  read- 
ings, whereas  wild  group  plants  were  exposed  to  wild  ungulate  herbivory  from  November  1994  to  August  1995. 


Figure  4.  Total  shoot  biomass  per  Arizona  willow  plant  in  control,  cattle,  and  wild  groups  measured  at  three  different 
times.  Note  that  cattle  group  plants  were  exposed  to  cattle  herbivory  for  10  days  between  July  95  and  Aug  95  read- 
ings, whereas  wild  group  plants  were  exposed  to  wild  ungulate  herbivory  from  November  1994  to  August  1995. 


190 


However,  following  winter  freezing,  all  groups 
experienced  a  decline  in  total  shoot  biomass.  In  the 
period  between  August  1994  and  June  1995,  the 
control  group  lost  22  percent  of  total  shoot 
biomass,  the  cattle  group  lost  37  percent  of  total 
shoot  biomass,  and  the  wild  group  lost  63  percent 
of  total  shoot  biomass.  In  the  period  between  June 
1995  and  July  1995,  when  cattle  group  plants  were 
exposed  to  cattle  herbivory,  total  shoot  biomass 
decreased  by  43  percent  and  29  percent  in  the 
cattle  and  wild  groups,  respectively,  while  controls 
increased  by  8  percent  in  this  10-day  period  (Fig- 
ure 4). 

Note  that  the  final  plant  measurements  were 
generally  less  in  the  wild  group  compared  to  the 
cattle  group  and  that  this  is  probably  due  to  the 
amount  of  time  plants  were  exposed  to  herbivores: 
willows  in  the  wild  group  were  exposed  to  10 
months  of  herbivory,  whereas  willows  in  the  cattle 
group  were  exposed  to  10  days  of  herbivory. 

Discussion 

This  study  showed  that  both  wild  ungulates 
and  cattle  browsed  the  Arizona  willow  plants.  The 
effects  of  the  herbivory  were  severe;  height,  the 
total  number  of  branches,  average  branch  length, 
and  total  shoot  biomass  all  significantly  declined 
when  plants  were  exposed  to  herbivory. 

Several  observations  indicated  that  cattle  did 
not  preferentially  browse  Arizona  willows  in  this 
experimental  setting.  First,  the  cattle  ate  the 
willows  only  after  all  other  desirable  vegetation 
had  been  eaten.  Desirable  vegetation  included: 
sweet  clover  (Melilotus  officinalis  (L.)Lam.), 
deergrass,  and  Arizona  fescue.  It  wasn't  until  the 
sixth  day  of  the  experiment  that  the  willows  were 
tried.  Secondly,  the  cows  actually  would  pick 
grasses  out  from  between  the  willows  or  between 
branches  before  they  would  eat  the  willows.  This 
indicates  that  Arizona  willows  in  this  setting  are 
not  the  preferred  food,  but  would  be  selected  after 
the  other  foods  were  eaten.  Further,  these  studies 
indicate  that  in  pastures  where  cattle  remain  more 
than  6  days,  willow  use  will  increase. 

Observations  by  the  first  author  suggest  that 
elk  are  the  primary  wild  herbivores  feeding  on 
Arizona  willow  in  this  experimental  setting.  There 
were  elk  hoof  tracks  and  feces  near  the  Arizona 
willows.  Personal  observations  of  elk  were  noted 
in  this  area  nearly  every  morning.  In  contrast,  the 
same  evidence  of  deer  or  antelope  was  not  found. 


This  experiment  was  conducted  in  an  area  in 
which  Salix  spp.  are  an  uncommon  food  source  to 
both  elk  and  cattle.  This  may  be  construed  as  an 
artificial  environment,  but  the  study  was  con- 
ducted to  determine  whether  cattle  and/or  elk  eat 
willows.  We  conclude  that  cattle  do  indeed  eat 
willows,  but  not  as  a  preferred  food  source.  Elk 
seem  to  be  eating  the  willows,  but  we  have  not 
captured  concrete  evidence  of  the  herbivore  in 
action.  Evidence  of  this  nature  needs  to  be  gained 
by  photography  and /or  video. 

The  exposure  of  Arizona  willow  to  elk  and 
cattle  in  its  native  habitats  most  certainly  reduces 
plant  vigor  and  probably  reproductive  capacity  as 
well.  Here  we  have  documented  reduction  in  four 
parameters  related  to  plant  vigor.  In  the  next  2 
years  of  this  study  we  will  be  able  to  document  the 
impact  of  herbivory  in  one  year  on  reproduction  in 
subsequent  years  and  we  will  be  able  to  determine 
if  Arizona  willow  can  compensate  for  tissue  lost  to 
herbivores.  Our  studies  support  the  management 
efforts  that  have  been  initiated  since  the  signing  of 
the  Arizona  Willow  Conservation  Agreement 
(AWITC  1995),  which  reduce  and/ or  eliminate  the 
exposure  of  Arizona  willow  populations  to  elk  and 
cattle  on  the  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forest  in 
Arizona  and  the  Fishlake  and  Dixie  National  For- 
ests in  Utah. 

The  broader  implications  of  these  studies  go 
beyond  the  "single  species"  perspective.  Negative 
impacts  on  one  species  in  fragile  riparian  zones 
could  inevitably  have  lasting  impacts  throughout 
the  ecosystem  and  through  numerous  and  distant 
taxa  (Armour  et  al.  1994).  As  an  example,  Taylor 
(1986)  showed  that  there  were  greater  numbers  of 
passerine  birds  using  an  undisturbed  willow  ripar- 
ian area  in  comparison  to  an  extensively  grazed 
area.  Such  ecosystem-level  ramifications  are  pos- 
sible, but  as  yet  undocumented  in  Arizona  willow 
habitat.  By  observing  and  recording  data  on  the 
Arizona  willow,  correlative  impacts  on  a  variety  of 
organisms  within  the  ecosystem  will  be  possible  in 
the  future. 

Acknow^ledgments 

We  would  like  to  thank  George  Fischer  for 
loaning  us  the  cattle  used  in  this  study.  Kenric 
Kesler  and  Jeff  Hines  assisted  with  measurements, 
and  with  plant  and  cattle  care.  This  study  was  sup- 
ported by  the  Arizona  Department  of  Agriculture 
through  Section  6  funding. 


191 


Literature  Cited 

Arizona  Willow  Interagency  Technical  Committee.  1995. 
Arizona  Willow  Conservation  Agreement  and 
Strategy.  U.S.  Forest  Service  Intermountain  Region, 
Ogden,  Utah;  U.S.  Forest  Service,  Southwest  region, 
Albuquerque,  New  Mexico;  National  Park  Service, 
Rocky  Mountain  Region,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah;  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Southwest  Region,  Albu- 
querque, New  Mexico. 

Armour,  C,  D.  Duff,  and  W.  Elmore.  1994.  The  effects  of 
livestock  grazing  on  Western  riparian  and  stream 
ecosystems.  Fisheries  19:9-12. 

Galeano-Popp,  R.G.  1988.  Salix  arizonica  Dorn  on  the 
Fort  Apache  Indian  reservation,  Arizona.  White 
Mountain  Apache  Game  and  Fish  Department, 
Whiteriver,  Arizona.  37  pp. 

Bryant,  J. P.  and  G.D.  Wieland.  1985.  Interactions  of 
snowshoe  hare  and  feltleaf  willow  in  Alaska.  Ecol- 
ogy 66(5):1564-1573. 

Granfelt,  Carl-Eric.  1989.  Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica 
Dorn.)  populations  on  the  Fort  Apache  Indian  Reser- 
vation. White  Mountain  Apache  Game  and  Fish 
Department.  White  River,  Arizona.  3  pp. 


Medina,  A.L.  1991.  Study  plan:  Study  No.  RM-4251-3- 
11-A.  Autecology  of  Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica 
Dorn)  in  the  Mount  Baldy  region  of  east  central  Ari- 
zona. U.S.  Forest  Service,  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  «fe 
"  Range  Experiment  Station,  Tempe,  Arizona.  48  pp. 

Prendusi,  T.,  D.  Atwood,  B.  Palmer,  and  R.  Rodriguez. 
1996.  Interagency  conservation  biology  program  for 
Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica  Dorn).  In  J.  Maschin- 
ski  and  H.D.  Hammond  (editors).  Southwestern  Rare 
and  Endangered  Plants:  Proceedings  of  the  Second 
Conference.  1995  September  11-14,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
Gen.  Tech.  Rep.  RM-GTR-283.  Fort  Collins,  CO:  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture;  Forest  Service,  Rocky 
Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experiment  Station. 

Singer,  F.J.,  L.C.  Mark,  and  R.C.  Cates.  1994.  Ungulate 
herbivory  of  willows  on  Yellowstone's  northern  win- 
ter range.  Journal  of  Range  Management  47:435-443. 

Taylor,  D.M.  1986.  Effects  of  cattle  grazing  on  passerine 
birds  nesting  in  riparian  habitats.  Journal  of  Range 
Management  39(3):254-258. 


192 


The  Effects  of  Prescribed  Burning  on  the  Rare  Plant  Chrysothamnus  molestus 

NEIL  S.  COBB,l  DAVID  F.  GORI,^  and  THOMAS  G.  WHITHAMI 

■^Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff  86011 
^The  Nature  Conservancy,  Arizona  Chapter,  300  East  University  Boulevard,  Suite  230,  Tucson  85705 

Abstract:  We  examined  the  effects  of  fall  and  spring  prescribed  burning  on  the  rare  plant, 
Chn/sotham?ms  molestus  (Blake)  L.C.  Anders.  Plant  growth  and  flower  production  increased 
after  fall  burning,  compared  to  control  plants,  indicating  that  C.  molestus  is  tolerant  of  fall 
burning.  There  was  a  differential  effect  of  fall  burning  on  mature  plants  and  seedlings.  We 
did  not  observe  any  mortality  in  mature  plants,  but  seedling  establishment  was  reduced  12- 
fold  compared  to  control  plots  that  were  not  burned.  Considering  that  seedling  establishment 
in  C.  molestus  is  probably  rare,  burning  during  a  year  of  sexual  recruitment  would  likely  have 
long-term  negative  effects  on  population  dynamics.  We  also  found  strong  seasonal  differ- 
ences caused  by  burning.  The  spring  bum,  which  occurred  during  the  growing  season,  led  to 
25  percent  mortality  of  adult  plants,  a  three-fold  reduction  in  volume  of  surviving  plants, 
with  little  or  no  compensation  in  growth  or  flower  production.  We  conclude  that  C.  molestus 
is  not  a  fire-dependent  species,  but  is  tolerant  of  prescribed  burns  implemented  after  the 
growing  season.  We  propose  that  prescribed  burns  should  never  be  implemented  during  the 
growing  season  or  at  least  in  the  early  part  of  the  growing  season.  FaU  prescribed  burns  can 
be  used  as  a  management  tool  without  negatively  impacting  C.  molestus,  but  should  not  be 
implemented  in  a  year  when  seedlings  are  beginning  to  establish. 


Introduction 

Only  recently  has  prescribed  burning  been 
used  by  government  agencies  as  a  management 
tool  to  enhance  ecosystem  productivity  and 
promote  reproduction  and  growth  of  native  plant 
species.  Although  there  is  a  wealth  of  information 
on  plant  responses  to  fire  for  particular  habitats, 
such  as  the  North  American  chaparral,  Australian 
mallee,  and  South  African  fynbos  (Crutzen  and 
Goldammer  1993,  Zedler  1995),  much  less  is 
known  about  other  ecosystems  that  are  not  as  fire 
adapted.  Furthermore,  little  work  has  been  con- 
ducted on  how  rare  species  respond  to  natural  or 
prescribed  fires.  At  least  in  certain  habitats,  some 
rare  plant  species  are  typically  found  in  disturbed 
areas  Qacobson  et  al.  1991),  suggesting  that  they 
may  require  some  type  of  disturbance  such  as  fire 
to  survive  in  these  communities.  Prescribed  fires 
have  been  conducted  in  order  to  understand  to 
what  degree  the  abundance  of  rare  plants  has  been 
affected  by  human  resource  policies  such  as  fire 
suppression  (Thomas  and  Goodson  1992).  Schem- 
ske  et  al.  (1993)  note  that  4  out  of  98  plant  species 
for  which  recovery  plans  have  been  developed  are 
endangered  primarily  due  to  the  suppression  of 
natural  fires.  There  is  also  some  evidence  to  sug- 
gest that  the  rarity  of  Polemonium  pauciflorum  S. 
Wats  ssp.  hinckleyi  (Standi.)  Wherry,  Gentianella 
wislizeni  (Englm.)  J.  Gillett,  and  Pediocactus  para- 
dinei  B.W.  Benson  in  Arizona  is  due  to  fire  sup- 
pression (Peter  Warren,  personal  communication). 


Regardless  of  whether  any  rare  plant  may  depend 
on  some  type  of  fire  regime  for  continued  exis- 
tence, it  is  important  to  understand  how  rare 
plants  respond  to  prescribed  burning  as  well  as 
fulfilling  other  management  needs  such  as  in- 
creasing productivity  or  reducing  unwanted 
species. 

Chrysothamnus  molestus  (Blake)  L.C.  Anders,  is 
a  perennial  prostrate  shrub  or  sub-shrub  that  is 
found  only  on  the  Coconino  Plateau  in  northern 
Arizona.  It  grows  on  limestone-derived  soils 
where  there  is  a  thin  layer  of  topsoil  (BiU  Hevron, 
personal  communication),  ranging  in  elevation 
between  1800  and  2100  m.  This  species  is  classified 
as  a  category  2  candidate  for  listing  by  the  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  due  to  its  limited  geo- 
graphical range,  patchy  distribution,  and  because 
it  is  heavily  used  or  impacted  by  cattle  and  elk. 
Previous  studies  have  reported  little  or  no  recruit- 
ment in  populations  of  C.  molestus,  and  very  little 
was  known  about  its  population  biology.  It  was 
unknown  what  effect  prescribed  burning  would 
have  on  the  population  dynamics  of  C.  molestus. 
Savage  and  Swetnam  (1990)  have  shown  for 
ponderosa  pine  forests  that  livestock  grazing  has 
played  a  significant  role  in  the  reduction  of  natural 
fires.  Chrysothamnus  molestus  typically  grows  in 
open  pinyon-juniper  grasslands  where  periodic 
natural  fires  would  be  expected  to  occur  every  15- 
30  years  (Kilgore  1981). 

Due  to  the  lack  of  recruitment  observed  in 


193 


natural  populations  of  C.  molestus,  we  proposed 
that  some  type  of  natural  disturbance  such  as  fire 
may  promote  seedling  establishment  and  possibly 
increase  plant  performance.  Therefore,  the  objec- 
tives of  this  study  were  to  examine  the  effects  of 
prescribed  fall  and  spring  burning  on  the  plant 
performance  and  population  dynamics  of  C . 
molestus.  This  study  includes  the  effects  of  two 
burning  treatments  on  a  C.  molestus  population 
that  has  been  protected  from  grazing  for  40  years. 
Initially  the  study  included  a  cattle-grazed  area  in 
one  of  the  two  burning  treatments  (fall  burn). 
Since  plant  responses  to  fall  burning  were  compar- 
able between  cattle-grazed  and  cattle-free  areas, 
we  only  report  the  results  of  the  burning  in  the 
cattle-free  area.  Specific  effects  of  grazing  on  C. 
molestus  will  be  dealt  with  in  a  later  paper  (Cobb  et 
al.  unpublished). 

Methods 

Plot  Description 

The  study  site  is  located  in  the  Kaibab  Nation- 
al Forest  (T24N,  R4E,  northwest  area  of  section  11) 
at  an  elevation  of  2095  m.  Annual  precipitation  in 
the  area  is  40  cm  and  annual  mean  temperature  is 
9.4°C  (Lavin  and  Johnson  1977).  Chrysothamnus 
molestus  is  a  dominant  plant  species  at  the  study 
site,  along  with  various  grasses  and  C .  nauseosus 
(Pallas)  Britt.  The  study  site,  8.1  hectares,  has  been 
fenced  and  protected  from  cattle  grazing  for  40 
years  (Barbara  Phillips,  personal  communication). 
Grazing  by  native  vertebrate  herbivores  has 
occurred  in  the  plot,  although  we  never  observed 
any  indication  of  vertebrate  herbivory  (i.e., 
chewed  leaves  or  stems)  on  C.  molestus . 

Spring  Bum 

To  examine  the  effect  of  prescribed  spring 
burning  on  C.  molestus  survival  and  performance, 
one-third  of  the  plot  was  burned  on  April  30, 1992 
(spring  burn).  For  both  burn  treatments  fires  were 
set  with  drip  torches.  Only  53  percent  of  the  plants 
in  the  burn  treatment  actually  burned,  and  of 
those  plants  that  burned  25  percent  died.  For  the 
treatment  group,  we  only  used  plants  that  had 
burned  and  survived  (n  =  42).  Control  plants  were 
selected  to  create  a  comparable  number  of  plants 
that  were  similar  in  plant  characteristics  to  the 
treatment  group  before  the  burn. 

We  performed  t-tests  on  plant  characteristics 
to  test  for  pre-treatment  differences  in  the  year 
before  the  spring  burn,  between  burned  (treat- 
ment) and  unburned  (control)  plants.  We  per- 
formed a  repeated  measures  ANOVA  to  test  for 


treatment  effects  in  the  2  years  following  the 
spring  burn.  This  analysis  tests  for  two  main 
effects:  differences  between  groups  (TYPE)  among 
years  and  differences  within  groups  over  time 
(TIME),  and  the  interaction  effect  of  differences 
between  groups  over  time  (TYPE  x  TIME).  The 
latter  addressed  the  question  of  whether  one 
group  changes  over  time  in  a  significantly  differ- 
ent way  than  the  other  group. 

Fall  Burn 

To  examine  the  effect  of  prescribed  fall  burn- 
ing on  C.  molestus  survival  and  performance,  a 
third  of  the  plot  was  burned  on  November  18, 
1992  (fall  burn).  Fuel  loads  were  much  greater  in 
this  burn  treatment  than  in  the  spring  prescribed 
burn,  and  the  entire  section  burned  uniformly.  The 
control  group  (n  =  113)  used  to  compare  with  the 
burned  plants  (n  =  96)  consisted  of  all  unburned 
plants  in  the  plot,  including  those  in  the  spring 
burn  plot  that  were  not  burned.  We  did  not  have 
to  select  specific  plants  as  controls  in  this  compari- 
son, as  we  did  in  the  spring-burn  analysis,  since 
there  were  no  significant  differences  between  the 
treatment  group  and  all  of  the  other  plants  in  the 
plot  that  did  not  burn.  Fifty-five  of  these  control 
plants  were  also  used  as  control  plants  in  the 
spring-burn  analysis. 

To  test  for  effects  of  the  fall  burn,  we  initially 
performed  a  repeated  measures  ANOVA  for  the  2 
years  before  the  burn,  to  ensure  that  treatment  and 
control  groups  were  comparable.  We  then  per- 
formed a  t-test  on  the  same  variables  measured 
after  the  fall  burn  to  test  for  effects  of  the  burn 
treatment. 

Plant  Measurements 

Individual  plants  were  randomly  selected 
from  all  plants  occurring  in  5  m^  subplots  estab- 
lished throughout  the  study  site.  These  plants 
were  tagged  and  monitored  from  1991  to  1993. 
Plants  were  measured  in  early  September,  during 
the  flowering  period  after  annual  growth  ap- 
peared to  be  complete.  For  each  plant  we  collected 
the  following  measurements:  (1)  plant  length  in 
cm,  (2)  plant  width  in  cm,  (3)  plant  height  in  cm, 
(4)  growth  rate — length  of  5-11  current-year 
shoots  in  mm,  (5)  number  of  current-year  shoots 
per  quarter  plant,  and  (6)  number  of  flower  heads 
per  plant.  We  estimated  plant  canopy  volume 
(decimeters'^)  using  the  height,  length,  and  width 
measurements. 

Seedling  recruitment  only  occurred  in  1993; 
we  did  not  observe  any  seedlings  in  1991  or  1992. 
Seedling  production  was  estimated  by  counting  all 


194 


the  seedlings  in  randomly  selected  5  subplots. 
Twelve  subplots  were  examined  in  each  of  the 
control,  spring  bum,  and  fall  burn  sections. 

Results:  Effect  of  the  Spring  Burn 

The  spring  bum  on  April  30, 1992  only  burned 
53  percent  of  the  tagged  plants  in  the  plot,  due  to 
inadequate  fuel  loads.  The  plot  had  40  years  to 
accumulate  fuel  in  the  absence  of  cattle.  The  burn 
occurred  during  the  middle  of  an  extended  3-year 
El  Nino  event,  when  annual  precipitation  was 
above  normal,  which  should  have  resulted  in  rela- 
tively high  biomass  accumulation.  It  is  possible 
that  because  of  the  El  Nino  event,  plant  moisture 
was  high,  leading  to  reduced  fire  intensity.  How- 
ever, where  there  appeared  to  be  adequate  fuels, 
vegetation  including  shrubs  were  burned.  This 
indicates  that  even  if  spring  prescribed  fires 
promoted  plant  performance,  spring  prescribed 
burning  would  not  be  a  feasible  management 
practice  in  habitats  where  C.  molestus  occurs. 

There  were  no  significant  differences  in  plant 
performance  traits  between  the  spring  burned  and 
unburned  (control)  plants  for  the  year  preceding 
the  burn  (pre-burn).  We  therefore  presumed  any 
differences  in  the  years  following  the  spring  burn 
(post-burn)  resulted  directly  from  the  bum  treat- 
ment. Since  seedlings  did  not  emerge  anywhere  on 
the  study  site  during  the  year  preceding  the  bum, 
we  did  not  have  a  pre-burn  comparison. 

Plant  Growth  and  Size 

Shoot  growth  was  35  percent  greater  in 
burned  plants  over  the  2-year  period  following  the 
burn  (Figure  lA).  However,  this  difference  was 
due  to  a  45  percent  increased  shoot  growth  in  1992 
in  burned  plants  compared  to  controls.  Shoot 
growth  in  burned  plants  was  only  slightly  greater 
than  control  plants  in  1993.  Growth  in  both  plant 
groups  decreased  dramatically  from  1992  to  1993, 
although  burned  plants  showed  a  relatively 
greater  decrease  in  growth  compared  to  control 
plants,  indicated  by  the  significant  interaction 
term  in  the  repeated  measures  analysis. 

Shoot  production  for  burned  plants  that  sur- 
vived the  fire  was  significantly  lower  than  control 
plants  (40%)  in  the  year  following  the  fire  (Figure 
IB).  Burned  plants  did  recover  to  a  certain  degree 
2  years  following  the  fire,  but  their  shoot  produc- 
tion was  still  only  56  percent  of  shoot  production 
in  control  plants.  For  both  groups,  shoot  produc- 
tion was  significantly  greater  in  1993  compared  to 
1992.  The  relative  decrease  in  overall  shoot 
production  after  the  spring  bum  was  greater  than 


the  relative  increase  in  shoot  growth,  leading  to 
overall  reduced  (66%)  annual  biomass  production 
in  burned  plants  compared  to  control  plants.  This 
reduction  of  biomass  production  is  reflected  in 
plant  volume,  which  was  drastically  reduced  by 
three-fold  in  the  year  following  the  fire  (Figure 
2A),  and  was  still  only  half  that  of  control  plants  2 
years  after  the  burn. 

Flower  Production 
Flower  production  per  plant  was  reduced 
three-fold  as  a  result  of  the  spring  bum  (Figure  2B) 
in  the  year  following  the  burn.  The  difference  in 
flower  production  per  plant  was  less  noticeable  in 
the  second  year  following  the  fire  but  was  still 
only  half  that  seen  in  the  control  plants.  The  re- 
duced flower  production  of  burned  plants  was 
probably  due  to  a  reduction  in  plant  size  in  burned 
plants.  We  found  no  difference  between  the 
groups  when  we  examined  flower  production  on  a 
per  plant  volume  basis. 

Plant  Survivorship  and  Seedling  Density 
The  most  dramatic  effect  of  the  spring  burn 
was  that  25  percent  of  the  marked  plants  died, 
whereas  there  was  no  mortality  in  the  control 
plots.  Since  we  did  not  observe  any  seedlings  until 
1993,  we  assume  that  seedling  establishment  oc- 
curred after  the  1992  census  iii  September.  There- 
fore we  don't  know  what  the  direct  effect  of  the 
spring  bum  would  have  been  on  seedlings.  Seed- 
ling density  in  1993  in  the  burned  plots  was 
comparable  to  unburned  subplots  (Figure  3).  The 
lack  of  seedlings  in  1992  indicates  that  spring 
burning  does  not  promote  the  establishment  of 
seedlings  and  the  results  of  1993  indicate  that 
spring  burning  has  no  effect  on  seedling  estab- 
lishment in  ensuing  years. 

Results:  Effect  of  the  Fall  Burn 

The  fall  burn  differed  from  the  spring  bum  in 
several  respects:  there  was  adequate  fuel  to  in- 
clude the  grazed  area,  the  fire  burned  evenly 
throughout  the  designated  area,  there  was  no 
adult  plant  mortality,  and  plant  growth  and 
reproductive  effort  were  stimulated. 

As  was  the  case  for  the  spring  burn,  there 
were  no  significant  differences  in  any  plant  per- 
formance attribute  between  the  fall  burned  and 
unburned  (control)  plants  for  the  2  years  preced- 
ing the  bum  (pre-bum).  We  therefore  presumed 
any  differences  in  the  year  following  the  fall  burn 
(post-burn)  resulted  directly  from  the  burn  treat- 
ment. Since  seedlings  did  not  emerge  anywhere  on 


195 


A.  SHOOT  GROWTH 


B.  SHOOT  PRODUCTION 


1991 


1992  1993 


SPRING  BURN 


h- 
z 

Q. 

^  30 

CO 
H 
O 

o 
I 

CO 

d 


POST-BURN 


REPEATED  MEASURES 

P-VALUE 
TYPE  <  .0001 

TIME  <  .0001 

TYPE  X  TIME  .75 


B 


1991      1992  1993 

□  UNBURNED 


Figure  1.  (A)  Mean  current-year  shoot  growth  (±  1  SE)  and  (B)  shoot  production  for  burned  and  unburned 
(control)  plants  in  the  spring  bum  experiment.  P-values  from  a  repeated  measures  ANOVA  are  presented 
in  the  upper  right-hand  corner,  denoting  significance  of  the  main  effects  of  plant  type  and  time  and  the 
interaction  effect.  Letters  above  the  bars  denote  significant  differences  between  groups  at  P  =  .05,  based 
on  t-test. 


the  study  site  for  the  2  years  preceding  the  burn, 
we  did  not  have  a  pre-bum  comparison. 

Plant  Growth  and  Size 

Shoot  growth  in  burned  plants  increased  over 
two-fold  in  comparison  to  control  plants  (Fig  4A). 
Shoot  production  was  reduced  50  percent  in  the 
burned  plants  compared  to  controls  (Figure  4B), 
but  this  was  offset  by  the  increase  in  shoot  growth 
(4A).  If  one  estimates  biomass  production  on  a  per 
plant  volume  basis  by  multiplying  number  of 
shoots  and  shoot  growth,  annual  biomass  produc- 
tion would  be  48  percent  higher  in  the  burned 
plants.  Despite  this  estimated  increase  in  annual 
biomass  per  volume  of  plant  canopy,  burned 
plants  exhibited  a  25  percent  decrease  in  plant 
volume  compared  to  control  plants  (Figure  5A). 


The  fact  that  plant  volume  in  burned  plants  was 
reduced  but  estimated  biomass  production  was 
not,  indicates  that  these  burned  plants  were  pro- 
ducing a  greater  amoimt  of  biomass  per  volume  of 
plant  than  control  plants. 

Flower  Production 

Reproductive  effort,  as  measured  by  flower 
production,  was  stimulated  by  the  fall  burn.  Flow- 
er production  per  plant  was  69  percent  higher  in 
burned  plants  compared  to  control  plants  (Figure 
5B)  after  the  fall  bum. 

Plant  Survivorship  and  Seedling  Density 

We  did  not  observe  any  mortality  of  any  adult 
plants  in  either  the  burn  or  control  areas.  How- 
ever, seedling  production  was  nearly  15-fold  less 


196 


A.  PLANT  VOLUME 


B.  FLOWER  PRODUCTION 


PRE-BURN 


POST-BURN 


REPEATED  MEASURES 
P-VALUE 
TYPE  .006 
TIME  .99 
TYPE  X  TIME  .28 


B 


B 


I- 
Z 

5 

Q. 
(/) 

a 
< 

LU 
I 

Od 
HI 


LL 

d 
z 


140 


120 


PRE-BURN 


1991 


1992  1993 


POSTBURN 


B 


REPEATED  MEASURES 

P-VALUE 
TYPE  .0001 
TIME  .17 
TYPE  X  TIME  .046 


B 


1991      1992  1993 


SPRING  BURN 


□  UNBURNED 


Figure  2.  (A)  Mean  plant  volume  (±  1  SE)  and  (B)  number  of  flower  heads  for  burned  and  unburned 
(control)  plants  in  the  spring  bum  experiment.  P-values  from  a  repeated  measures  ANOVA  are  presented 
in  the  upper  right-hand  corner,  denoting  significance  of  the  main  effects  of  plant  type  and  time  and  the 
interaction  effect.  Letters  above  the  bars  denote  significant  differences  between  groups  at  P  =  .05,  based 
on  t-test. 


in  the  burn  treatments  for  the  burn  plots  (Figure 
3).  This  indicates  that  fire  differentially  affects  dis- 
tinct life  stages  of  C.  molestus,  stimulating  growth 
and  reproductive  effort  in  reproductively  mature 
plants  but  killing  new  seedlings. 

Discussion 

Two  major  conclusions  from  this  study  are 
that  Chn/sothamnus  molestus  responds  differentially 
to  prescribed  burning  depending  on  the  time  of 
year  of  the  burn — the  overall  effect  of  the  spring 
burn  on  plant  performance  was  negative,  but  the 
effect  of  the  fall  bum  was  not  (Table  1);  and  that  C. 
molestus  may  be  a  fire-tolerant  species  as  indicated 
by  the  compensatory  growth  and  reproductive 
effort  seen  in  fall  burned  plants,  but  it  clearly  is 


not  a  fire-dependent  species  as  evidenced  by 
reduced  seedling  establishment  (Table  1). 

Mature  Plant  Mortality 
The  spring  prescribed  burn  caused  significant 
plant  mortality  (25%)  and  reduced  overall  plant 
performance  in  surviving  plants.  This  strongly 
indicates  that  C.  molestus  is  not  adapted  to  fire 
exposure  during  the  early  part  of  the  growing 
season.  Plant  mortality  in  shrublands  is  positively 
correlated  with  reduced  frequency  and  predicta- 
bility of  fires  in  shrubland  habitats  (Christensen 
1985).  Most  likely,  naturally  ignited  fires  in  the 
area  occurred  predominantly  during  the  monsoon 
period  (July-September),  and  one  would  expect 
that  C.  molestus  would  not  be  adapted  to  tolerate  a 
spring  prescribed  burn.  Other  perennial  compos- 


197 


CM 


in 

CO 

CD 


Q 
LJJ 
LU 


1.2 
1 

0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0 


SPRING  BURN 
FALL  BURN 
UNBURNED 


NO 

SEEDLINGS 


NO 

SEEDLINGS 


1991 


1992 


1993 


Figure  3.  Mean  seedling  production  (±  1  SE)  for  burned  and  unburned  plots  in  the  fall  and  spring  pre- 
scribed burns  in  1993.  Seedling  production  was  not  observed  in  the  other  2  years  of  the  study.  Letters 
above  the  bars  denote  significant  differences  between  treatment  (burned)  and  control  (unburned)  groups 
at  P  =  .05,  based  on  t-tests. 


ites  also  suffer  high  mortality  when  burns  occur  in 
the  growing  season.  Humphrey  and  Everson 
(1951)  found  that  snakeweed  {Gutierrezia  sarothrae 
(Pursh)  Britt.  &  Rusby)  and  burroweed  {Isocoma 
tenuisectus  Greene)  experienced  95  percent  mortal- 
ity or  greater  after  a  July  control  burn  and  White 
(1969)  found  continued  high  mortality  in  larchleaf 
goldenweed  {Ericameria  laricifolia  (Gray)  Shinn.)  2 
years  after  a  wildfire. 

We  did  not  observe  any  plant  mortality  as  a 
result  of  the  fall  burn,  suggesting  that  C.  molestus 
has  evolved  tolerance  to  fires  that  occur  after 
plants  senesce.  Although  the  probability  of  a  light- 
ning fire  in  November  is  low,  the  fall  prescribed 
burn  is  close  enough  to  the  peak  natural  fire 
season  that  C.  molestus  would  have  experienced  in 
the  past.  Brewer  and  Piatt  (1994)  concluded  that 
most  positive  responses  of  plants  to  fire  occurred 
in  the  season  when  natural  fires  would  normally 
occur. 


Plant  Growth  and  Reproductive  Effort 
The  increase  in  shoot  growth  in  burned  plants 
compared  to  controls  during  the  first  post-burn 
year  was  more  than  negated  by  the  decrease  in 
shoot  production  for  both  post-burn  years,  which 
led  to  overall  reduced  biomass  production  in 
burned  plants.  Although  shoot  growth  in  spring 
burned  plants  was  overall  35  percent  greater  than 
control  plants,  shoot  production  was  overall  only 
half  that  observed  in  control  plants.  Shoot  produc- 
tion did  increase  significantly  2  years  following 
the  spring  burn,  but  it  was  still  only  56  percent  as 
great  as  in  control  plants,  whereas  shoot  growth 
was  comparable. 

Unlike  the  spring  burn,  the  fall  burn  stimu- 
lated overall  biomass  production  and  reproductive 
effort.  Shoot  production  in  the  fall  burn  was  33 
percent  less  in  burned  plants  compared  to  control 
plants,  but  there  was  over  a  two-fold  increase  in 


198 


A.  SHOOT  GROWTH 


B.  SHOOT  PRODUCTION 


40 


30 


20 


O 
or: 
CD 

H 
O 

O  10 

CO 


PRE-BURN 


REPEATED 

MEASURES  P-VALUE 

TYPE  .33 
TIME 

TYPEX  .01 

TIME  .24 


1991     1992  1993 
■  FALL  BURN 


1991  1992 
□  UNBURNED 


1993 


Figure  4.  (A)  Mean  current-year  shoot  growth  (±  1  SE)  and  (B)  shoot  production  for  burned  and  unburned  (control) 
plants  in  the  fall  burn  experiment.  P-values  from  a  repeated  measures  ANOVA  are  presented  in  the  upper  left-hand 
corner,  denoting  significance  of  the  main  effects  of  plant  type  and  time  and  the  interaction  effect  before  the  burn  (pre- 
burn).  Letters  above  the  bars  denote  significant  differences  between  groups  at  P  =  .05,  based  on  t-test  to  determine  the 
effect  of  the  burn  (post-burn). 


LU 


O 


A.  PLANT  VOLUME 


8  - 


1991 


1 992  1 993 
I  FALL  BURN 


B.  FLOWER  PRODUCTION 


< 
^  150 


CO 
Q 
< 
LJJ 
X 

01 
LJJ 


100 


O  50 


LL 

d 


PRE-BURN 

REPEATED 

MEASURES  P-VALUE 


TYPE 
TIME 

TYPEX  TIME 


.28 
.01 
.01 


POST-BURN 


1991  1992 
□UNBURNED 


1993 


Figure  5.  (A)  Mean  plant  volume  (±  1  SE)  and  (B)  flower  production  for  burned  and  unburned  (control)  plants  in  the 
fall  burn  experiment.  P-values  from  a  repeated  measures  ANOVA  are  presented  in  the  upper  left-hand  corner, 
denoting  significance  of  the  main  effects  of  plant  type  and  time  and  the  interaction  effect  before  the  bum  (pre-burn). 
Letters  above  the  bars  denote  significant  differences  between  groups  at  P  =  .05,  based  on  t-test  to  determine  the  effect 
of  the  burn  (post-bum). 


199 


Table  1.  Summary  of  the  relative  performance  of  burned  plants  in  response  to  the  spring  and  fall  pre- 
scribed burns.  Values  of  relative  performance  in  burned  plants  are  listed  as  a  percentage  of  the  mean 
values  for  unburned  plants,  except  for  mature  plant  mortality.  Mature  plant  mortality  is  listed  as  the 
percentage  of  plants  that  died  as  a  result  of  the  spring  bum;  we  did  not  observe  any  mortality  in  any 
control  plots  and  fall  burn  plot.  There  were  2  years  of  measured  plant  response  in  spring  burned  plants; 
we  also  include  the  mean  response  over  the  2-year  period.  NA  =  not  applicable  since  no  seedlings  were 
observed  on  the  study  site  in  1992. 


Spring 

FaU 

1992 

1993 

Mean  (1992-93) 

1993 

Shoot  growth 

145 

117 

135 

221 

Shoot  production 

40 

56 

49 

67 

Biomass  production^ 

58 

65 

66 

148 

Flower  production 

34 

49 

41 

169 

Plant  volume 

38 

51 

44 

75 

Seedling  production 

NA 

82 

6 

Mature  plant  mortality 

25 

0 

0 

^Biomass  estimated  per  volume  of  plant  as  mean  shoot  growth  x  mean  shoot  production. 


shoot  growth  of  burned  plants  compared  to  con- 
trol plants.  Likewise,  overall  flower  production 
was  reduced  by  three-fold  in  spring  burned  plants, 
but  was  70  percent  higher  in  the  fall  burned  plants 
despite  fewer  number  of  shoots  and  significantly 
smaller  plants  for  burned  plants.  Stimulated 
growth  and  reproductive  effort  following  fire  has 
been  well  documented  (Christensen  1985,  Hartnett 
1991,  Crutzen  and  Goldammer  1993,  Lamont  and 
Runciman  1993,  Brewer  and  Piatt  1994).  Stimu- 
lated growth  and  reproductive  effort  has  been 
ascribed  to  increased  soil  nutrient  availability  and 
retranslocation  of  resources  to  aboveground 
growing  meristems  (Christensen  1985,  Crutzen 
and  Goldammer  1993). 

Our  results  indicate  that  dieback  from  estab- 
lished woody  stems  in  response  to  burning  was 
much  greater  for  spring  burned  plants  compared 
to  the  fall  burn.  Less  living  woody  stem  tissue 
would  lead  to  reduced  shoot  production.  In- 
creased dieback  of  woody  stems  could  be  due  to  a 
higher  fuel  load  during  the  time  of  the  spring 
bum,  creating  a  hotter  fire.  However,  since  the  fuel 
load  appeared  to  be  much  greater  for  the  fall  burn 
(exemplified  by  the  fact  that  the  plot  was  more 
imiformly  burned),  it  is  likely  that  the  increased 
negative  effect  of  spring  burning  on  C.  molestus 
vegetative  growth  was  due  to  plant  phenology  at 
the  time  of  the  two  bum  treatments.  In  the  spring 
bum  buds  were  just  emerging,  whereas  before  the 


fall  bum  all  of  the  foliage  had  senesced.  This  sug- 
gests that  plants  are  not  able  to  replace  young 
growing  meristems  that  have  been  destroyed  by 
fire. 

We  do  not  know  the  long-term  response  of 
surviving  plants  for  either  bum  treatment.  Other 
Chrysothamnus  species  (i.e.  C.  viscidiflorus  (Hook) 
Nutt.,  C.  nauseosus,  C.  bloomeri  Greene,  and  C. 
puberulus  D.C.  Eaton)  have  shown  similar  negative 
results  in  the  first  3  years  after  a  fire,  after  which 
production  increases  dramatically  (Wright  1972). 
Chrysothamnus  viscidiflorus  cover  was  4  to  9  times 
greater  on  8  to  18  year  old  bums  (Chadwick  and 
Dalke  1965),  rabbitbrush  production  in  Idaho 
tripled  in  12  years  after  burning  (Blaisdell  1953), 
and  production  in  C.  bloomeri  (i.e.,  Haplopappus 
bloomeri  Gray)  in  northern  California  doubled  5 
years  after  a  fire  (Countryman  and  Cornelius 
1957).  At  least  some  of  these  species  also  sprout 
from  basal  buds  (Whisenant  1986),  which  would 
account  for  a  time  lag  in  their  response.  We  never 
observed  any  basal  sprouting  in  C .  molestus  but 
did  observe  basal  sprouting  in  C.  nauseosus  in  the 
bumed  plots.  In  a  review  of  the  literature  Chris- 
tensen (1985)  notes  that  sprouting  species  are  more 
tolerant  of  fire  and  respond  more  vigorously.  This 
suggests  that  C.  molestus,  a  non-sprouter,  may 
respond  very  differently  than  other  sprouting 
Chrysothamnus  species  and  thus  not  show  long- 
term  positive  responses  to  prescribed  buming. 


200 


Seedling  Establishment 

Seedling  production  was  not  reduced  in  the 
spring  bum  plots,  but  was  significantly  reduced  in 
the  fall  burn  plots.  The  greater  numbers  of  seed- 
lings in  the  spring  bum  sub-plots  suggests  that  the 
seedlings  we  observed  in  1993  emerged  in  1992 
after  the  spring  bum  but  before  the  fall  burn.  The 
overwintering  seeds  or  seedlings  then  experienced 
significant  mortality  as  a  result  of  the  fall  burn. 
Other  studies  have  also  shown  a  differential  effect 
on  seedlings  versus  established  plants  in  response 
to  fire.  Fisher  (1947)  found  that  43-100  percent  of 
seedlings  are  killed  by  fire,  while  only  extremely 
hot  fires  killed  mature  plants,  and  Lamont  et  al. 
(1993)  showed  increased  seedling  mortality  in 
several  species  exposed  to  fire  in  a  sclerophyll 
shrubland. 

Several  studies  have  shown  that  fire  increases 
the  probability  of  germination  and  seedling  estab  - 
lishment  after  fires  in  different  habitats  (Gratkow- 
ski  1961,  Christensen  1985,  Roy  and  Sonie  1992, 
Lamont  and  Runciman  1993).  Clearly  the  1992 
spring  burn  did  not  promote  seedlings.  Although 
we  did  not  quantify  the  effect  of  fall  burning  on 
seedling  establishment  that  may  have  occurred 
after  1993,  we  did  not  observe  any  new  seedlings 
(i.e.,  seedlings  that  may  have  emerged  after  1993) 
in  a  casual  inspection  of  the  plots  in  August,  1995, 
indicating  that  prescribed  burning  does  not 
promote  seedling  establishment  in  C.  molestus.  All 
of  the  seedlings  we  observed  in  1993  were  found 
growing  in  the  open.  Increased  seedling  establish- 
ment has  been  ascribed  in  large  part  to  the 
opening  of  vegetation  by  fire  (Christensen  1985). 
This  suggests  that  prescribed  fires  in  this  open 
pinyon-juniper  grassland  do  not  provide  open 
environments  long  enough  to  promote  seedling 
establishment  in  C.  molestus.  This  is  consistent 
with  our  observation  that  vegetation  in  the  burned 
plots  recovered  quickly  after  the  burns. 

It  is  possible  that  any  burning,  whether  it  is 
performed  in  the  spring  or  fall,  detrimentally 
affects  seedling  establishment  if  the  bum  occurs  in 
the  year  seedlings  are  establishing.  To  determine 
the  importance  of  these  phenomena,  one  needs  to 
know  the  cyclical  nature  of  seedling  establishment 
in  C.  molestus  including  when  germination  occurs 
during  the  year.  The  latter  will  indicate  whether 
bums  affect  seedlings  or  the  seed  bank.  This  can 
only  be  obtained  by  long-term  studies  greater  than 
10  years  in  duration,  considering  that  successful 
reproduction  may  be  rare  in  C.  molestus . 


Management  Considerations 
Two  conclusions  relevant  to  maiiagement  con- 
siderations are  that  spring  burning  significantly 
increases  plant  mortality  and  reduces  plant 
performance  whereas  fall  burning  does  not  affect 
mature  plant  mortality  and  does  stimulate 
biomass  accumulation  and  flowering;  and  that 
burning  in  a  year  when  sexual  recruitment  occurs 
negatively  affects  seedling  survival.  Both  conclu- 
sions have  important  management  implications. 
First,  prescribed  burns  should  be  conducted  in  the 
fall,  not  in  the  spring.  Second,  all  prescribed  bums 
should  be  conducted  after  dry  winter-springs  (i.e.. 
La  Nifia  years)  and  not  during  years  with  wet 
winter-springs  (i.e..  El  Nino  years),  in  order  to 
approximate  a  more  natural  fire  cycle  (Swetnam 
and  Betancourt  1990).  In  addition,  an  assessment 
of  seedling  recruitment  should  preclude  any 
prescribed  burns  to  prevent  seedling  mortality 
that  would  occur  as  a  result  of  a  prescribed  bum. 

Acknowledgments 

We  would  like  to  thank  Marybeth  Foushee  for 
assistance  in  the  field  and  Barbara  Phillips,  Ron 
Auler,  and  Bill  Hevron  for  providing  important 
background  information.  We  are  very  grateful  to 
the  Kaibab  National  Forest  for  conducting  the 
prescribed  burns.  H.  David  Hammond,  Catherine 
Gehring,  and  Greg  Martinsen  provided  valuable 
comments  on  the  manuscript.  This  study  was 
funded  primarily  by  a  challenge  cost  share  (No. 
07-09-91)  through  the  Kaibab  National  Forest  and 
the  Arizona  Nature  Conservancy.  Additional 
funding  was  provided  by  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Energy  (94ER61849),  the  National  Science  Founda- 
tion (DEB  9408009)  and  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  (95-37302-1801). 

Literature  Cited 

Blaisdell,  J.P.  1953.  Ecological  effects  of  planned  burning 
of  sagebrush-grass  range  on  the  upper  Snake  River 
plains.  USDA  Technical  Bulletin  1075,  39  pp. 

Brewer,  J.S.,  and  W.J.  Piatt.  1994.  Effects  of  fire  season 
and  herbivory  on  reproductive  success  in  a  clonal 
forb,  Pityopsis  graminifolia.  Journal  of  Ecology  82:665- 
675. 

Chadwick,  H.W.,  and  P.D.  Dalke.  1965.  Plant  succession 
on  dune  sands  in  Fremont  County,  Idaho.  Ecology 
46:765-780. 

Christensen,  N.L.  1985.  Shrubland  fire  regimes  and  their 
evolutionary  consequences.  In  S.T.A.  Pickett  and  P.S. 
White,  editors.  The  Ecology  of  Natural  Disturbance 
and  Patch  Dynamics,  pp.  85-100.  Academic  Press 
Inc.,  New  York. 


201 


Countryman,  CM.,  and  D.R.  Cornelius.  1957.  Some 
effects  of  fire  on  a  perennial  range  type.  Journal  of 
Range  Manangement  10:39-41. 

Crutzen,  P.J.,  and  J.G.  Goldammer.  1993.  Fire  in  the 
Environment,  the  Ecological,  Atmospheric,  and 
Climatic  Importance  of  Vegetation  Fires.  John  Wiley 
&  Sons,  New  York. 

Fisher,  C.E.  1947.  Present  information  on  the  mesquite 
problem.  Texas  Agriculture  Experiment  Station 
Report  1056. 14  pp. 

Gratkowski,  H.  1961.  Brush  seedlings  after  controlled 
burning  of  brushlands  in  southwestern  Oregon. 
Journal  of  Forestry  59:885-888. 

Hartnett,  D.C.  1991.  Effects  of  fire  in  tallgrass  prairie  on 
growth  and  reproduction  of  prairie  coneflower 
(Ratibida  columnifera:  Asteraceae).  American  Journal 
of  Botany  78:429^35. 

Humphrey,  R.R.,  and  A.C.  Everson.  1951.  Effect  of  fire 
on  a  mixed  grass-shrub  range  in  southern  Arizona. 
Journal  of  Range  Manangement  3:264-266. 

Jacobson,  G.L.  Jr.,  H.  Almquist-Jacobson,  and  J.C. 
Winne.  1991.  Conservation  of  rare  plant  habitat: 
Insights  from  the  recent  history  of  vegetation  and  fire 
at  Crystal  Fen,  Northern  Maine,  USA.  Biological 
Conservation  57:287-314. 

Kilgore,  B.M.  1981.  Fire  in  ecosystem  distribution  and 
structure:  Western  forests  and  scrublands.  In  H.A. 
Mooney,  T.M.  Bonnicksen,  N.L.  Christensen,  J.E. 
Lotan,  and  W.A.  Reiners,  technical  editors.  Fire 
Regimes  and  Ecosystem  Properties,  pp.  58-89.  USDA 
Forest  Service,  General  Technical  Report  WO-26. 

Lamont,  B.B.,  and  H.V.  Runciman.  1993.  Fire  may  stimu- 
late flowering,  branching,  seed  production  and  seed- 
ling establishment  in  two  kangaroo  paws  (Haemodo- 
raceae).  Journal  of  Applied  Ecology  30:256-264. 

Lamont,  B.B.,  E.T.F.  Witkowski,  and  N.J.  Enright.  1993. 
Post-fire  litter  microsites:  Safe  for  seeds,  unsafe  for 
seedlings.  Ecology  74:501-512. 


Lavin,  F,  and  T.N.  Johnson.  1977.  Species  adapted  for 
planting  Arizona  pinyon-juniper  woodland.  Journal 
of  Range  Manangement  30:410-416. 

Roy,  J.,  and  L.  Sonie.  1992.  Germination  and  population 
dynamics  of  Cistiis  species  in  relation  to  fire.  Journal 
of  Applied  Ecology  29:647-655. 

Savage,  M.,  and  T.W.  Swetnam.  1990.  Early  19th-century 
fire  decline  following  sheep  pasturing  in  a  Navajo 
ponderosa  pine  forest.  Ecology  71:2374-2378. 

Schemske,  D.W.,  B.C.  Husband,  M.  H.  Ruckelhaus,  C. 
Goodwillie,  I.M.  Parker,  and  J.G.  Bishop.  1993. 
Evaluating  approaches  to  the  conservation  of  rare 
and  endangered  plants.  Ecology  75:584-606. 

Swetnam,  T.W.,  and  J.L.  Betancourt.  1990.  Fire-southern 
oscillation  relations  in  the  southwestern  United 
States.  Science  249:1017-1020. 

Thomas,  P.A.,  and  P.  Goodson.  1992.  Conservation  of 
succulents  in  desert  grasslands  managed  by  fire. 
Biological  Conservation  60:91-100. 

Whisenant,  S.G.  1986.  Herbicide  use  in  Artemisia  and 
ChtysotJiammis  communities:  Reducing  damage  to 
nontarget  species.  In  E.D.  McArthur,  and  B.L.  Welch, 
compilers.  Proceedings — Symposium  on  the  Biology 
of  Artemisia  and  Chn/sotlwmnus ,  pp.  115-121.  USDA 
Forest  Service,  Intermountain  Forest  and  Range 
Experiment  Station.  General  Technical  Report  INT- 
200.  398  pp. 

White,  L.D.  1969.  Effects  of  a  wildfire  on  several  desert 
grassland  shrub  species.  Journal  of  Range  Manage- 
ment 22:284-285. 

Wright,  H.A.  1972.  Shrub  responses  of  fire.  In  CM. 
McKell,  J. P.  Blaisdell,  and  J.R.  Goodwin,  editors. 
Wildland  Shrubs — Their  Biology  and  Utilization,  pp. 
204-217.  USDA  Forest  Service,  Intermountain  Forest 
and  Range  Experiment  Station.  General  Technical 
Report  INT-1.494  pp. 

Zedler,  P.H.  1995.  Are  some  plants  born  to  bum?  Trends 
in  Ecology  and  Evolution  10:393-395. 


202 


An  Ecophysiological  Analysis  of  Shade  Effects  on 
Clematis  hirsutissima  var.  arizonica 

THOMAS  E.  KOLB^  and  JOYCE  M ASCHINSKI^ 

■^School  of  Forestry,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff  8601 1 
^The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  P.O.  Box  670,  Flagstaff,  AZ  86002 

Abstract:  Net  photosynthetic  rates  and  water  potentials  of  adult  Clematis  hirsutissima  var. 
arizonica  were  compared  among  four  canopy  density  environments  (open,  medium,  closed, 
experimentally  closed)  in  a  Pinus  pon^ferosfl -dominated  forest  in  northern  Arizona  on  four 
dates  in  summer  1994.  Daytime  water  potential  was  lower  (greater  water  stress)  in  open 
versus  shaded  environments,  with  little  difference  in  pre-dawn  water  potential  among 
environments.  Net  photosynthetic  rate  was  higher  in  open  versus  shaded  environments  on 
most  dates.  The  results  indicate  that  shading  ameliorated  daytime  water  stress  and  that  net 
photosynthetic  rate  was  more  strongly  limited  by  low  light  intensity  in  shaded  environments 
than  daytime  water  stress  in  open  environments.  Regulation  of  Clematis  physiology  by  can- 
opy density  is  discussed  in  relation  to  habitat  requirements  for  regeneration  and  population 
growth. 


Introduction 

Clematis  hirsutissima  var.  arizonica  (Heller) 
Erickson  (referred  to  as  Clematis  hereafter)  is 
considered  a  sensitive  species  by  the  U.S.  Forest 
Service  and  is  a  candidate  for  federal  protection 
under  the  U.S.  Endangered  Species  Act.  The 
species  is  an  herbaceous  perennial  shrub  with 
pinnately  compound  leaves,  fine  leaflets,  and 
solitary,  purple,  bell-shaped  flowers  (Kearney  and 
Peebles  1960).  The  stem  dies  back  in  the  fall  after 
seeds  are  shed.  Populations  of  Clematis  grow  at 
high  elevations  (2300-2800  m)  near  Flagstaff, 
Arizona,  the  Chuska  Mountains  of  Arizona,  and 
the  Zuni  Mountains  of  New  Mexico.  The  known 
populations  have  a  patchy  distribution  and  are 
geographically  rare. 

One  of  the  major  anthropogenic  factors  hy- 
pothesized to  have  limited  the  distribution  of 
Clematis  in  northern  Arizona  is  the  removal  of 
overstory  shade  by  timber  harvesting.  Concerns 
over  the  detrimental  effects  of  harvesting  over- 
story  Pinus  ponderosa  Lawson  on  Clematis  are 
substantiated  by  recent  surveys  indicating  that 
approximately  85  percent  of  all  Clematis  popula- 
tions in  northern  Arizona  occur  in  habitats  where 
average  light  levels  are  below  50  percent  full  sun 
(Maschinski  1989),  and  by  measurements  of  lower 
bud  mortality,  greater  seed  set,  greater  production 
of  viable  seed,  and  greater  rates  of  seedling  estab- 
lishment in  shaded  versus  open  habitats  (Maschin- 
ski et  al.  in  press).  These  data  suggest  facilitation 
of  Clematis  reproduction  by  shading  from  the 
Pinus  ponderosa  canopy.  Because  Clematis  grows  in 
a  geographic  region  characterized  by  low  water 


availability,  high  evaporative  demand,  and  high 
light  intensity,  shade  may  be  beneficial  to  Clematis 
reproduction  and  seedling  survival  by  moderating 
water  stress,  as  has  been  documented  for  under- 
story  or  herbaceous  species  in  other  regions  (e.g., 
Knapp  et  al.  1989,  Knapp  and  Smith  1990,  Schultz 
and  Adams  1995).  In  addition,  shade  may  stimu- 
late Clematis  reproduction  and  survival  by  reduc- 
ing limitations  on  net  photosynthesis  by  water 
stress.  In  this  paper,  we  test  the  hypothesis  that 
shading  ameliorates  water  stress  of  Clematis  in 
northern  Arizona.  We  also  examine  the  role  of 
water  stress  and  light  intensity  in  regulating  net 
photosynthesis  of  adult  Clematis  under  field 
conditions. 

Methods 

In  1991,  we  located  and  surveyed  Clematis 
populations  near  Lower  Lake  Mary  approximately 
25  km  southeast  of  Flagstaff,  Arizona.  All  popula- 
tions occur  in  a  forest  dominated  by  Pinus  ponder- 
osa. We  categorized  these  populations  into  three 
environments  based  on  the  average  percentage  of 
full  sun  penetrating  to  the  forest  floor  (see  Ma- 
schinski et  al.,  in  press,  for  additional  details):  (1) 
open  environments  with  light  levels  greater  than 
75  percent  ("open"),  (2)  medium  environments 
with  light  levels  between  50  and  65  percent  ("med- 
ium"), and  (3)  closed  environments  with  light 
levels  less  than  40  percent  ("closed").  In  1992,  we 
created  a  fourth  environment  ("experimentally 
closed")  by  covering  half  of  the  open  environ- 
ments with  wooden  lattice  structures  to  reduce 
light  penetration  to  the  forest  floor.  The  lattice 


203 


reduced  average  light  intensity  from  76  percent  to 
5  percent. 

In  1994,  we  measured  net  photosynthetic  rates 
and  water  potentials  on  fully  expanded  foliage  of 
reproductively  mature  plants  in  one  population  of 
each  of  the  four  environments  on  the  following 
dates:  May  26,  June  24,  July  11,  and  August  8.  The 
populations  used  for  these  measurements  were 
representative  samples  of  the  four  environments  at 
the  Lake  Mary  Site.  Weather  conditions  varied 
among  the  four  measurement  dates.  In  May,  the 
sky  was  overcast.  In  June  and  July,  the  sky  was 
free  of  clouds.  In  August,  intermittent  clouds 
occurred. 

For  May,  June,  and  July,  we  measured  water 
potentials  on  one  leaf  from  each  of  five  represen- 
tative plants  per  environment  using  a  pressure 
bomb  (PMS,  Corvallis,  OR)  at  predawn  (0600 
hours),  mid-morning  (AM  =  0800-1000  hours), 
and  early  afternoon  (PM  =  1300-1500  hours)  time 
periods.  We  measured  net  photosynthetic  rate  on 
the  same  plants  during  the  AM  and  PM  periods 
using  a  0.25  liter  cuvette  and  portable,  closed-loop 
photosynthesis  system  (LI-6200,  Li-cor,  Lincoln, 
NE).  All  measurements  of  photosynthesis  were 
conducted  over  30  seconds  under  near-ambient 
conditions  (±  10%)  of  temperature,  light  intensity, 
and  relative  humidity.  We  measured  the  area  of 
each  leaf  used  for  photosynthesis  measurements  in 
the  laboratory  using  an  Ag- Vision  imaging  system 
(Decagon  Devices,  Pullman,  WA).  We  then  meas- 
ured the  weight  of  each  leaf  following  drying  for 
24  hours  at  60°C.  The  measurement  procedure  in 
August  was  identical  to  that  for  other  dates  except 
that  persistent  afternoon  thundershowers  pre- 
vented any  PM  measurements.  During  the  photo- 
synthesis measurements,  we  also  measured  the 
following  environmental  parameters:  photosyn- 
thetic photon  flux  density  (PPFD)  assessed  0.5  m 
above  the  target  plant  with  an  0.8  m-long  PAR 
Ceptometer  (Decagon  Devices,  Pullman  WA);  leaf 
and  cuvette  temperatures  assessed  with  fine  wire 
thermocouples;  and  cuvette  relative  humidity 
assessed  with  a  Vasiala  humidity  sensor  (Li-cor, 
Lincoln,  NE).  Leaf-to-air  vapor  pressure  deficit 
(VPD)  was  calculated  based  on  leaf  and  cuvette 
temperature  and  cuvette  relative  humidity. 

Physiological  and  environmental  data  from 
each  date  were  analyzed  by  ANOVA  using  SAS- 
Statistics  software  (Gary,  NC)  with  canopy  envi- 
ronment (open,  medium,  closed,  experimentally 
closed),  measurement  time  (AM,  PM,  pre-dawn 
for  water  potential),  and  their  interaction  as 


factors.  Mean  comparisons  were  made  using  the 
Student-Newman-Keuls  test  at  the  0.05  level. 

Results 

Light  levels  were  highest  for  the  June  and  July 
measurements  (clear  sky),  intermediate  for  August 
(intermittent  clouds),  and  lowest  in  May  (cloudy 
conditions)  (Figure  1).  Environment  x  time  was  a 
significant  (p  <  0.05)  source  of  variation  in  June 
and  July,  reflecting  inconsistent  differences  in  light 
intensity  between  AM  and  PM  among  environ- 
ments. Light  intensity  differed  significantly  (p 

<  0.0001)  among  canopy  environments  at  all  dates 
with  the  highest  intensities  occurring  in  the  open 
environment  and  the  lowest  intensities  occurring 
in  the  closed  or  experimentally  closed  environ- 
ments (Figure  1).  Light  intensity  did  not  differ 
significantly  between  closed  and  experimentally 
closed  environments  on  any  date. 

Vapor  pressure  deficit  (VPD)  was  greatest  in 
June  and  July,  intermediate  in  August,  and  lowest 
in  May  (Figure  2).  Vapor  pressure  deficit  differed 
significantly  (p  <  0.005)  among  environments  at  all 
dates  and  was  greater  in  open  compared  with 
other  environments.  The  medium  canopy  environ- 
ment had  significantly  (p  <  0.05)  greater  VPD  than 
the  closed  and  experimentally  closed  environ- 
ments in  July  and  August,  but  not  on  other  dates. 
Vapor  pressure  deficit  was  generally  similar  for 
closed  and  experimentally  closed  environments. 
Differences  in  VPD  among  environments  primar- 
ily resulted  from  differences  in  leaf  temperature, 
which  often  differed  by  7-10°C  between  open  and 
shaded  environments,  rather  than  differences  in 
relative  humidity,  which  differed  by  only  1-3 
percent.  Measurement  time  was  a  significant  (p 

<  0.0001)  source  of  variation  in  VPD  for  May,  June, 
and  July,  resulting  from  consistently  greater  VPD 
for  the  PM  versus  the  AM  period.  Environment  x 
time  was  a  significant  (p  <  0.02)  source  of  variation 
in  June  and  July  due  to  differences  in  VPD 
response  over  measurement  times  among  envi- 
ronments. 

Pre-dawn  water  potential  in  all  environments 
decreased  from  May  to  July,  suggesting  depletion 
of  soil  water  in  the  rooting  zone  from  early  to  mid 
summer  (Figure  3).  Canopy  environment,  meas- 
urement time,  and  environment  x  time  were 
significant  (p  <  0.02)  sources  of  variation  in  water 
potential  for  all  dates.  Average  water  potential 
was  greatest  at  pre-dawn,  intermediate  in  the  AM, 
and  lowest  in  the  PM  for  all  dates.  Although 
statistically  significant,  variation  in  May  water 


204 


LU 
Z 


a 
a. 

E 

Q. 


□ 


If) 


in 
CO 


o 


□ 


□ 


>- 
< 


(0 

a 
E 

■ 

0. 


□ 


□ 


d 


□ 


o 

□ 


d 

tu  o 
.  o 

CD  O 

■  ^  00 
P-(  O 


C 

o 

•4-1 

> 


207 


potential  among  environments  was  small  at  all 
times  of  the  day,  consisting  of  maximum  differ- 
ences of  0.25  MPa.  In  June,  differences  in  pre- 
dawn water  potential  among  environments  were 
again  small  in  magnitude  and  not  statistically 
significant.  However,  June  AM  and  PM  water  po- 
tential was  significantly  lower  in  open  compared 
with  other  environments.  In  July,  water  potential 
at  all  times  of  the  day  was  significantly  lower  in 
open  compared  with  other  environments.  There 
were  no  significant  differences  in  July  water  po- 
tential among  medium,  closed,  and  experimentally 
closed  environments  except  in  the  AM,  where 
water  potential  in  the  medium  environment  was 
lower  than  in  the  closed  and  experimentally  closed 
environments.  August  pre-dawn  water  potential 
did  not  differ  significantly  among  environments, 
while  AM  water  potential  was  significantly  lower 
in  open  and  medium  compared  with  closed  and 
experimentally  closed  environments. 

Net  photosynthetic  rate  (leaf  area  basis)  dif- 
fered widely  among  dates  in  the  open  environ- 
ment with  the  highest  rates  in  June  and  the  lowest 
rates  in  May  and  July  (Figure  4).  In  contrast,  there 
was  little  variation  in  net  photosynthetic  rate 
among  dates  for  the  shaded  environments.  Net 
photosynthetic  rate  differed  significantly  (p 
<  0.0001)  among  environments  in  May,  June,  and 
August,  but  not  July.  On  those  dates  where  signif- 
icant differences  among  canopy  environments 
occurred,  both  AM  and  PM  net  photosynthetic 
rates  were  significantly  higher  in  open  versus 
shaded  environments.  On  most  dates,  maximum 
daily  values  of  net  photosynthetic  rate  were 
greater  in  medium  compared  with  closed  and 
experimentally  closed  environments,  but  these 
differences  were  not  statistically  significant. 
Differences  in  net  photosynthetic  rate  between 
closed  and  experimentally  closed  environments 
were  small  and  not  significant  on  all  dates.  The 
time  of  day  that  measurements  were  taken  was  a 
significant  (p  <  0.04)  source  of  variation  in  net 
photosynthetic  rate  in  June  and  July,  and  environ- 
ment x  time  was  significant  (p  =  0.03)  in  June.  Net 
photosynthetic  rates  in  both  June  and  July  were 
generally  greatest  in  the  AM  versus  the  PM 
period,  the  only  exceptions  being  the  medium 
environment  in  June  and  the  experimentally 
closed  environment  in  July.  Differences  in  net 
photosynthetic  rate  among  dates,  environments, 
and  measurement  times  calculated  on  a  leaf  dry 
weight  basis  (data  not  shown)  were  similar  to 
differences  calculated  on  a  leaf  area  basis. 


Correlations  between  net  photosynthetic  rate 
and  water  potential  in  May,  June,  and  July  were 
not  significant  (Figure  5).  However,  in  August  net 
photosynthetic  rate  was  significantly  and  nega- 
tively correlated  with  water  potential.  In  contrast, 
net  photosynthetic  rate  was  significantly  and 
positively  correlated  with  light  intensity  at  the 
time  of  measurement  in  May,  June,  and  August, 
but  not  July  (Figure  6). 

Discussion 

Our  results  support  the  hypothesis  that  shad- 
ing from  the  Pinus  ponderosa  canopy  ameliorates 
daytime  water  stress  in  adult  Clematis.  Morning 
and  afternoon  water  potentials  were  consistently 
lower  in  open  compared  with  shaded  environ- 
ments in  June,  July,  and  August,  indicating  greater 
cumulative  water  stress  in  the  open  environment. 
Differences  in  morning  and  afternoon  water  po- 
tentials among  environments  were  predominantly 
the  result  of  greater  transpiration  in  open  versus 
shaded  environments  driven  by  higher  leaf-to-air 
vapor  pressure  deficit  and  higher  stomatal  con- 
ductance in  open  environments  (data  not  shown) 
rather  than  differences  among  environments  in 
availability  of  soil  moisture.  Pre-dawn  water 
potential  is  a  sensitive  measure  of  soil  water 
availability  in  the  rooting  zone  (Kozlowski  et  al. 
1991).  The  similarity  of  pre-dawn  water  potential 
among  canopy  environments  in  May  and  June 
indicates  similar  availability  of  soil  water  in  the 
rooting  zone  in  early  summer  when  soil  moisture 
is  primarily  supplied  by  residual  winter  and 
spring  precipitation.  Differences  in  pre-dawn 
water  potential  among  environments  in  early  July 
suggest  lower  water  availability  in  open  compared 
with  shaded  environments  following  depletion  of 
residual  winter  precipitation  but  prior  to  the  start 
of  summer  monsoonal  rains.  In  early  August 
following  the  start  of  the  monsoonal  rains,  there 
was  again  no  evidence  of  differences  in  availability 
of  soil  water  among  environments.  Thus,  on  most 
dates  availability  of  soil  water  in  the  rooting  zone 
was  similar  among  environments. 

Net  photosynthetic  rate  of  Clematis  was  more 
strongly  limited  by  shading  than  by  water  stress. 
Differences  in  net  photosynthesis  among  environ- 
ments were  strongly  related  to  light  intensity  in 
May,  June,  and  August,  indicating  maximum 
carbon  assimilation  in  the  open  environment.  In 
July,  the  relationship  between  net  photosynthetic 
rate  and  light  intensity  was  still  positive,  but 
weaker  than  in  other  months  perhaps  due  to  se- 


208 


t/5 


209 


CO 


re 
E 


CM 


"d 


< 

Z 

U 

o 

Q. 

m 
I- 
< 
5 


CM 

"d 


o 
E 

c 

Q. 


8 

d 
II 


in 


O  II 

^  .2 

CD  V 

O  QJ 

o  ^ 


c 
o 


a; 
o 


> 

a;  oj 

^3  o 

O  ^ 

^  a; 

O  ns 


> 


K3 


o  B 


^3  55 


oj  a; 


o 


01 


u 

II 


2  t3 
O  C 

Ci-c  to 

c  o 


73 


1-i  u 
O  Oh 


03 


o  ?J  -a 


03 


^  QJ 


LO 


Si? 

C  II 
O  T3 

P-i    QJ  U 


210 


C/3  QJ 


a 
T3 

O 
C 

o 


cr 

o 
.1—1 


m   o  m  o 

rt    M    CM  CM 


C 

a 

o 

In 


C 

o 


>  T3 
C  O 

P 

o 


re 


c 

c 

o 


"55  w 
c 
a 


a. 


c 

a; 

g 

>-( 

c  o 

Oh 

^      §  ^ 


X 


C 
O 


T3 

c 
o 

S 
re 


XI 

II 


I  ^ 

M  -1-1 

£  o 

C    C  u 

-13  .S  5 

c  c  c 

re  a; 

a  g  fi 

re  s-i 

u  3, 


'X  CI 


c  ^  to 

tD  re 

C   C  II 

c  2  ^ 

O    >  01 

^    T-l  - 

c  ^ 

a,  re  fcp 

X  re 
re 

■jn  ^  .t: 

re     U  r; 

I  si 

i— I     Ui  II 


211 


vere  daytime  water  stress  in  the  open  environment 
(water  potentials  <  -3.5  mPa)  which  limited  net 
photosynthesis  in  this  environment  to  a  greater 
degree  than  in  the  more  shaded  environments.  In 
May,  June,  and  July,  net  photosynthetic  rate  was 
not  significantly  related  to  water  stress.  The  only 
significant  relationship  between  net  photosyn- 
thetic rate  and  water  stress  occurred  in  August 
where  high  rates  of  photosynthesis  were  asso- 
ciated with  high  levels  of  water  stress  (more 
negative  water  potentials),  which  apparently 
resulted  from  high  transpiration  rates  associated 
with  high  rates  of  stomatal  conductance  in  the 
open  environment.  Adult  Clematis  in  northern 
Arizona  are  capable  of  maintaining  high  rates  of 
net  photosynthesis  in  open  environments  despite 
the  occurrence  of  high  evaporative  demand  and 
severe  daytime  water  stress.  This  physiological 
characteristic  is  likely  an  adaptation  to  montane 
environments  of  the  southwestern  United  States, 
which  are  characterized  by  high  light  intensity, 
low  humidity,  and  prolonged  periods  of  low  soil 
moisture  during  the  growing  season. 

There  was  no  apparent  direct  linkage  between 
effects  of  canopy  cover  on  the  Clematis  net  photo - 
synthethic  rate  measured  in  this  study  and  repro- 
ductive success  as  measured  in  previous  studies. 
Although  net  photosynthesis  of  adult  Clematis  was 
highest  in  open  environments,  reproduction  and 
population  growth  are  favored  by  shadier  envi- 
ronments. Previous  research  on  Clematis  in  north- 
ern Arizona  (Maschinski  et  al.  in  press)  has  indi- 
cated lower  seedling  establishment  in  open  versus 
more  shaded  environments.  Plants  growing  in 
environments  with  average  light  levels  greater 
than  75  percent  full  sun  suffered  from  higher  bud 
mortality,  lower  seed  viability,  lower  seedling 
establishment,  higher  mammalian  herbivory,  and 
greater  exposure  to  competition  from  other 
vegetation  than  plants  growing  in  more  shaded 
environments  (Maschinski  et  al.  in  press).  For 
Clematis,  environments  with  intermediate  levels  of 
canopy  cover  characterized  by  frequent  sunflecks 
may  offer  the  best  combination  of  exposure  to 
direct  sun,  which  stimulates  photosynthesis  but 
induces  daytime  water  stress,  and  shading,  which 
depresses  photosynthesis  but  ameliorates  daytime 
water  stress  through  stomatal  closure.  Our  re- 
search suggests  that  timber  harvesting  activities 


that  completely  remove  overstory  shade  will  be 
detrimental  to  Clematis  populations  in  northern 
Arizona,  because  of  high  levels  of  water  stress, 
which  likely  damages  flowers  and  young  seed- 
lings by  desiccation.  However,  harvesting  activi- 
ties that  maintain  intermediate  levels  of  shading 
(i.e.,  >50%  canopy  cover),  where  vegetation 
receives  filtered  light  with  frequent  sunflecks, 
should  not  be  detrimental. 

Acknowledgments 

This  study  benefited  from  the  efforts  of  many 
hands  and  minds.  For  their  field  assistance,  we 
thank  Edward  Smith,  Barbara  Phillips,  Cecily 
Criminale,  Matt,  Sean,  Tess,  and  Ger  Ryan,  Laurie, 
Ruth,  and  Rob  Brooks,  Sandra  and  Roseanne 
Elliott,  John  Obst,  Ron  Bauman,  Matt  Caouette, 
Matthew  Smith,  Deborah  Stern,  Jenn  Starr,  Scott 
Killian,  Bud  White,  Mike  Manrowe,  Scott  Wiet,  Jan 
Busco,  Rick  Paladino,  Amy  Gibbons,  and  Karin 
Doerr.  Heather  Green  and  Greg  Goodwin  pro- 
vided administrative  and  logistic  support  for  this 
project.  The  manuscript  was  improved  by  an  early 
review  by  Shelly  Fenney. 

Literature  Cited 

Kearney,  T.,  and  R.H.  Peebles.  1960.  Arizona  Flora.  Uni- 
versity of  California  Press,  Berkeley. 

Knapp,  A.K.,  and  W.K.  Smith.  1990.  Stomatal  and 
photosynthetic  responses  to  variable  sunlight. 
Physiologia  Plantarum  78:160-165. 

Knapp,  A.K.,  W.K.  Smith,  and  D.R.  Young.  1989.  Im- 
portance of  intermittent  shade  to  the  ecophysiology 
of  subalpine  herbs.  Fundamentals  of  Ecology  3:753- 
758. 

Kozlowski,  T.T.,  P.J.  Kramer,  and  S.G.  Pallardy.  1991. 
The  Physiological  Ecology  of  Woody  Plants.  Aca- 
demic Press,  New  York. 

Maschinski,  J.  1989.  Factors  limiting  reproductive  suc- 
cess of  Arizona  leatherflower  growing  in  the  Lake 
Mary  timber  sale  area.  Report  43-8173-9-3025  to  the 
Coconino  National  Forest. 

Maschinski,  J.,  T.E.  Kolb,  E.  Smith,  and  B.  Phillips.  In 
press.  Potential  impacts  of  timber  havesting  on  a  rare 
plant  species.  Clematis  hirsutissima  var.  arizonica.  Bio- 
logical Conservation. 

Schulz,  K.E.,  and  M.S.  Adams.  1995.  Effect  of  canopy 
gap  light  environment  on  evaporative  load  and 
stomatal  conductance  in  the  temperate  forest  under- 
story  herb  Aster  macrophyllus  (Asteraceae).  American 
Journal  of  Botany  82:630-637. 


212 


Conservation  Assessment  and  Strategy  for  Cimicifuga  Arizonica  Watson 
(Arizona  Bugbane)  on  the  Coconino  and  Kaibab  National  Forests 

BARBARA  GOODRICH  PHILLIPS ,1  RONALD  POPOWSKI,^  CLARK  FRANZ ,2  and  PETER  WARREN ^ 

•^Coconino,  Kaibab  and  Prescott  National  Forests,  2323  East  Greenlaw  Lane,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86004 
^Coconino  National  Forest,  2323  East  Greenlaw  Lane,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86004 
~^The  Arizona  Nature  Conservancy,  300  East  University  Blvd.,  Suite  230,  Tucson,  Arizona  85705 

Abstract:  Cimicifiiga  arizonica  Wats,  is  a  rare  endemic  found  in  moist,  forested  areas  near 
perennial  or  intermittent  streams  in  four  population  areas  located  in  the  Mogollon  Rim  area 
of  central  Arizona.  The  Conservation  Assessment  and  Strategy  Plan  addresses  management 
of  Arizona  bugbane  within  the  context  of  its  ecosystem.  The  habitat  of  this  species  is  a  subset 
of  larger  scale  habitats  that  support  a  diversity  of  species  such  as  Mexican  spotted  owl,  black 
bear,  and  deer.  Continuing  Level  1  and  Level  2  monitoring  will  enable  us  to  study  the  de- 
mography of  Arizona  bugbane,  impacts,  and  population  trends. 


Introduction 

The  goal  of  Cimicifiiga  arizonica  Conservation 
Assessment  and  Strategy  for  the  Coconino  and 
Kaibab  National  Forests  1995-2005  (USDA  1995)  is 
to  develop  a  course  of  action  that  wiU  contribute  to 
the  management  and  conservation  of  Arizona 
bugbane  in  Arizona.  The  Plan  is  to  ensure  that  the 
species  does  not  become  threatened  or  endangered 
as  a  result  of  Forest  Service  activities.  "Rare  plants 
are  often  sensitive  indicators  of  the  overall  health 
of  an  ecosystem;  their  persistence,  resilience,  and 
stability  are  clues  to  the  general  health  of  the  larg- 
er system,  as  well  as  events  in  the  biology  of  single 
population  and  species"  (Falk  and  Warren  1994). 

Cimicifuga  arizonica  Watson  is  a  Forest  Service 
sensitive  species  and  is  presently  a  category  1 
candidate  (58  Federal  Register  51144;  September 
30,  1993)  for  listing  as  threatened  or  endangered 
under  the  Endangered  Species  Act  of  1973,  as 
amended.  Final  approval  of  the  Arizona  bugbane 
conservation  agreement  represents  a  commitment 
by  the  U.S.  Forest  Service  through  the  Coconino, 
Kaibab,  and  Tonto  national  forests  and  by  the  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  to  manage  sensitive 
plant  resources  in  a  marmer  consistent  with  each 
agencies'  policies  in  order  to  ensure  that  species 
do  not  become  threatened  or  endangered. 

Monitoring,  which  provides  valuable  informa- 
tion, is  an  important  component  of  the  plan.  Ari- 
zona bugbane's  habitat  is  a  subset  of  larger  scale 
habitats  that  support  a  diversity  of  species  such  as 
Mexican  spotted  owl,  red-faced  warbler,  American 
redstart,  black  bear,  and  deer.  Level  1  and  Level  2 
monitoring  will  enable  us  to  study  Arizona  bug- 
bane's  demography,  impacts,  and  population 
trends  within  the  context  of  its  ecosystem. 


Species  Background 

Cimicifuga  arizonica  is  an  herbaceous  perennial 
plant  in  the  Ranunculaceae.  Vigorous  plants  aver- 
age 3-6  feet  in  height  with  large,  long-petioled 
lower  leaves  and  small  sessile  upper  leaves.  The 
blades  are  ternate  and  each  segment  is  divided 
with  ultimate  segments  toothed,  jagged,  and  more 
or  less  three-lobed.  The  flowering  stalks  are  long 
with  slender  racemes  positioned  above  the  large 
leaves.  Small  white-stamened,  petal-less  flowers 
are  clustered  on  the  flower  stalk,  making  the  plant 
very  conspicuous  when  in  flower.  Sessile  follicle 
fruits  are  produced. 

Cimicifuga  arizonica  is  the  only  species  of 
Cimicifuga  occurring  in  Arizona.  It  may  be  closely 
allied  to  Cimicifuga  data  Nutt.,  which  grows  in 
Oregon,  Washington,  and  British  Columbia 
(Compton  1994).  Detailed  descriptions  of  C. 
arizonica  can  be  found  in  Phillips  et  al.  (1982).  It 
was  first  collected  on  Bill  Williams  Mountain, 
Coconino  County,  Arizona,  in  August  of  1883  by 
H.H.  Rusby.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.G.  Lemmon  also 
collected  it  on  August  25,  1884,  in  a  ravine  on  the 
northwest  slope  of  the  same  mountain.  It  was 
described  by  Sereno  Watson  in  1885. 

Cimicifuga  arizonica  can  be  easily  confused 
with  Actaea  rubra  (Ait.)  Willd.  ssp.  arguta  (Nutt.) 
Hult.,  another  ranunculaceous  plant.  They  are 
vegetatively  very  similar  and  grow  in  similar 
habitats.  The  primary  difference  is  in  the  fruits: 
Actaea  has  a  red  or  white  berry,  while  C.  arizonica 
has  a  follicle  (Phillips  et  al.  1982).  The  raceme  is 
also  much  shorter  in  Actaea.  In  early  spring, 
sprouting  C.  arizonica  can  be  confused  vegetatively 
with  the  Umbelliferae,  Osmorhiza  spp. 

Studies  of  several  species  of  Cimicifuga  have 


213 


been  completed  by  numerous  researchers  on  vari- 
ous topics  including  anatomy,  pollination  ecology, 
seed  germination,  taxonomy,  population  genetics, 
and  pharmacology  (Kaye  and  Kirkland  1994). 
There  are  15  species  of  Cimicifuga  worldwide,  with 
six  in  North  America,  four  of  which  are  local  or 
regional  endemics.  The  fact  that  there  are  several 
species  worldwide  with  different  degrees  of  en- 
demism  provides  opportunities  for  many  evolu- 
tionary and  ecological  studies. 

The  genus  is  noted  as  a  medicinal  herb  in 
Kearny  and  Peebles  (1969).  Bugbane  {Cimicifuga 
spp.)  has  been  used  to  treat  rheumatism,  uterine 
disorder,  and  snakebite.  The  rhizomes  of  some 
Cimicifuga  species  are  important  plant  tissues  for 
medical  use. 

Biology /Ecology 

Cimicifuga  seedlings  develop  rhizomes,  which 
after  a  few  years  elongate  horizontally  through  the 
soil.  The  adult  rhizome  produces  a  few  scaly 
leaves  and  foliar  leaves  and  terminates  in  an  erect 
stem  with  an  inflorescence.  Each  of  the  scaly 
leaves  protects  an  axillary  bud;  one  or  more  of 
these  buds  elongates  the  next  year  with  a  terminal 
erect  stem  (Kumazawa  1931).  It  is  often  difficult  to 
determine  individual  plants  because  the  under- 
ground relationships  of  the  stems  and  rhizomes 
cannot  be  determined  without  excavation. 

Each  inflorescence  elongates  from  its  base 
toward  the  apex  (acropetally)  and  when  it  is 
branched,  the  shorter,  lateral  racemes  flower  so 
that  the  end  of  anthesis  is  virtually  synchronous 
over  all  racemes.  The  primary  raceme,  which  is  4- 
18  inches  (10-45  cm)  long,  has  about  3.5  inches  (9 
cm)  (ca.  35  flowers)  in  bloom  on  the  raceme  at  any 
one  time  (Pellmyr  1985).  Two  staminodes  occur 
per  flower  (Compton  1994),  but  there  is  no  nectar 
produced  (Pellmyr  1985). 

The  pollination  biology  of  Cimicifuga  arizonica 
was  investigated  by  Olle  Pellmyr  in  1983.  His 
report  (Pellmyr  1985)  emphasized  the  value  of  the 
workers  of  three  bumblebee  species  as  pollinators: 
Bombus  occidentalis,  Separatobombus  morrisoni,  and 
Probombus  huntii.  Self-pollination  also  occurred. 
Typically,  the  flowers  bloom  during  the  monsoon 
season  (July-mid  September),  with  peak  flowering 
around  August  1,  which  matches  the  time  of  peak 
abundance  of  its  three  species  of  bumblebees 
(Thorp  et  al.  1983,  cited  in  Pellmyr  1985,  Pellmyr 
1985).  The  pollinators  also  visited  several  simul- 
taneously flowering  species:  Phacelia  magellanica 
(Lam.)  Gov.,  Asclepias  speciosa  Torr.,  Aquilegia 


chrysantha  Gray,  Geranium  richardsonii  Fisch.  & 
Trautv.,  and  the  introduced  Trifolium  repens  L.,  as 
well  as  several  other  species  (Table  4,  Pellmyr 
1985).  A  plant  species  exhibiting  a  sequential 
flowering  pattern  may  be  at  a  disadvantage 
compared  with  nectar-producing  species.  Under 
normal  conditions  Arizona  bugbane  flowers 
receive  a  very  limited  number  of  visits  (Pellmyr 
1985).  Therefore,  it  is  essential  to  maintain  a  diver- 
sity of  plant  species  pollinated  by  these  bees  in 
order  to  attract  them  so  that  the  bees  will  be  in  the 
area  when  Cimicifuga  is  flowering. 

The  dehiscent  fruits  are  produced  in  August- 
September.  The  dates  of  flowering  and  fruiting 
depend  on  yearly  temperatures  and  precipitation. 
In  late  fall  (mid-September  to  October),  the  stems 
and  leaves  turn  tan  and  senescent  as  their  chloro- 
phyll deteriorates  and  the  plant  goes  dormant  for 
the  winter. 

Evidence  of  insect  activity  has  been  noted  on 
Cimicifuga  arizonica  populations.  Larvae  of  Celes- 
trina  ladon  (Lycaenidae,  gossamer-winged  blue 
butterflies)  have  been  observed  affecting  flowers 
and  seeds  lightly  to  severely  on  a  number  of 
occasions  in  many  of  the  populations  (Phillips  et 
al.  1982,  Pellmyr  1985,  Gobar  1991  in  Gobar  1992). 
Warren  (1991)  noted  small-insect  damage  on 
approximately  10  percent  of  the  fruit  produced  in 
the  Bill  Williams  population,  but  did  not  observe 
impacts  on  the  leaves  or  stems.  Aphid  infestations 
and  weak  stems  and  die-back  due  to  unknown 
causes  have  been  noted  in  some  populations  (Phil- 
lips et  al.  1982). 

Distribution  and  Habitat 

Cimicifuga  arizonica  is  only  known  to  occur  in 
the  Mogollon  Rim  area  of  central  Arizona.  To  date, 
the  distribution  is  limited  to  localities  on  the 
Kaibab,  Coconino,  and  Tonto  national  forests.  The 
geographic  distribution  extends  from  Bill  Williams 
Mountain  on  the  northwest  to  the  Sierra  Ancha 
Mountains  on  the  southeast.  All  of  the  known 
Arizona  bugbane  populations  and  sites  are  found 
in  four  main  population  areas  (PAs).  Two  PAs 
occur  on  Coconino  National  Forest.  The  Oak  Creek 
PA  includes  most  of  the  major  tributaries  of  Oak 
Creek,  including  the  West  Fork  of  Oak  Creek.  The 
second  PA  is  located  along  West  Clear  Creek.  The 
third  PA  occurs  on  Bill  Williams  Mountain  on 
Kaibab  National  Forest.  The  fourth  PA  is  along 
Workman  Creek  in  the  Sierra  Ancha  Mountains, 
Tonto  National  Forest. 

Arizona  bugbane  occurs  within  moist,  forested 


214 


areas  near  perennial  or  intermittent  streams  in  the 
canyon  between  1606-2515  m  elevation.  The  moist 
ecotonal  habitat  ranges  from  forest  cover  and 
riparian  habitat  including  springs  areas  to  splash 
zones  of  waterfalls.  Rich,  fertile  soils  high  in 
humus  are  typical.  The  surrounding  vegetation  is 
generally  mixed  conifer  with  an  understory  of 
deciduous  shrubs  and  trees  that  is  often  very 
dense  and  shady  (Phillips  et  al.  1982,  Warren 
1991).  Important  overstory  associates  of  C.  ari- 
zonica  include  Acer  grandidentatum  Nutt.  ex  Torr.  & 
Gray  (big-toothed  maple),  Abies  concolor  (Gord.  & 
Glend.)  Lindl.  ex  Hildebr.  (white  fir),  Pseudotsuga 
menziesii  (Mirb.)  Franco  (Douglas  fir),  Alnus 
oblongifolia  Torr.  (Arizona  alder),  and  Cornus 
stolonifera  Michx.  (red  osier  dogwood).  Cimicifiiga 
arizonica  is  often  the  dominant  understory  species 
when  present. 

It  is  believed  that  shade  from  deciduous  trees, 
cold  air  drainage,  high  relative  humidity,  and 
snow  pack  are  some  factors  needed  for  the  con- 
tinued survival  of  the  species  (Phillips  et  al.  1982). 
Air  temperature  is  somewhat  cooler  in  the  canyons 
than  on  the  canyon  rims  and  cold  air  drainage 
occurs  at  night.  The  canyons  where  Cimicifuga 
arizonica  occurs  run  in  various  directions:  canyon 
direction  or  aspect  does  not  appear  to  be  a  big 
factor  as  long  as  the  canyons  are  deep  and  narrow 
enough  to  provide  shade  for  a  large  part  of  the 
day.  Most  of  the  canyons  are  large  and  have 
perennial  streams  or  ephemeral  streams  with 
water  in  the  spring  during  the  snow  melt  season 
and  sometimes  during  the  summer  monsoons. 

Kaye  and  Kirkland  (1994)  hypothesized  that 
hardwood  trees,  such  as  maples,  play  an  impor- 
tant role  in  forest  dynamics  where  Cimicifuga  elata 
grows.  The  deciduous  trees,  where  Cimicifuga 
arizonica  grows,  also  are  bare  during  early  spring, 
permitting  sunlight  to  reach  the  forest  floor,  which 
would  stimulate  growth  of  bugbane  when  mois- 
ture is  plentiful.  The  leaves  on  the  deciduous  trees 
in  the  summer  provide  shade  to  maintain  the  area 
in  a  moist  condition.  Deciduous  trees  contribute 
humus  and  the  soil  may  be  less  acidic  under  them 
than  under  conifers.  Kaye  and  Kirkland  (1994) 
noted  that  hardwood  trees  require  additional  light 
and  lessened  competition  so  the  disturbance  fac- 
tors, such  as  floods,  wind-throw,  fire,  and  infesta- 
tions of  forest  pathogens,  may  be  important  for  the 
creation  of  new  sites  and  colonization  by  hard- 
woods and  Cimicifuga  elata.  One  or  more  of  these 
factors  may  be  very  important  in  creating  sites 
favorable  to  Arizona  bugbane. 


Monitoring  Methods 

The  monitoring  plan  identified  in  the  action 
plan  of  the  assessment  and  strategy  has  two  gener- 
al objectives:  (1)  establish  a  formal  monitoring 
strategy  for  the  populations  in  Oak  Creek,  West 
Clear  Creek,  and  Bill  Williams  Mountain  to  deter- 
mine trends  in  population  size  and  reproductive 
condition;  and  (2)  identify  potential  threats  to  the 
populations  and  recommend  mitigation  actions 
regarding  management  activities. 

The  two  types  of  monitoring  being  used  for 
this  species.  Level  1  and  Level  2,  exhibit  different 
objectives.  Level  1  monitoring  identifies  individual 
plants  by  location  within  a  monitoring  transect.  It 
involves  measuring  and  recording  individual  size, 
reproductive  activity,  damage,  and  other  indices. 
We  know  little  about  the  phenology  of  the  species 
such  as  number  of  leaves,  population  size,  and  its 
sensitivity  to  various  factors.  Level  1  monitoring 
might  clarify  our  understanding  of  this  species. 
Such  factors  as  elevation,  aspect,  drainage  condi- 
tion, canopy  closure,  and  degree  of  slope  might 
make  important  contributions  to  the  size  and 
phenology  of  the  plants. 

Level  2  monitoring  focuses  on  assessment  of 
the  population  as  a  whole  and  includes  an  esti- 
mate of  the  number  of  individuals  in  a  population 
and  the  approximate  areal  extent  of  the  popula- 
tion. Environmental  parameters  and  other  factors, 
such  as  flood  and  fire  effects,  infestations  of  forest 
pathogens,  herbivore  grazing  and  insect  damage, 
disease,  trampling,  and  several  other  impacts  are 
recorded  under  both  Level  1  and  Level  2  moni- 
toring. 

Five  localities  were  selected  for  Level  1  moni- 
toring: Bill  Williams  Mountain,  James  Canyon, 
Maple  Spring,  Upper  West  Fork  of  Oak  Creek,  and 
West  Clear  Creek.  Each  site  will  be  visited  once 
every  5  years.  We  have  completed  baseline  data  on 
all  five  sites  for  Level  1  monitoring,  which  pro- 
vides information  on  the  vigor,  size  classes,  and 
phenology  for  each  population. 

Level  2  monitoring,  which  provides  a  commit- 
ment to  visit  the  localities  on  a  regular  basis,  was 
begun  after  the  completion  of  the  Cimicifuga 
arizonica  conservation  assessment  and  strategy. 
Sixteen  localities,  including  four  localities  on  Level 
1  monitoring,  were  selected  for  Level  2  monitor- 
ing. Four  to  five  localities  will  be  visited  annually 
and  each  locality  will  be  visited  every  5  years.  This 
will  enable  us  to  detect  the  effects  from  some  of 
the  factors  listed  above  on  the  Cimicifuga  popula- 
tion and  habitat. 


215 


Results 

The  population  of  West  Clear  Creek  was  not 
healthy  when  it  was  first  visited  by  B.  Phillips  in 
1984.  Most  of  the  plants  were  vegetative  only; 
about  2  percent  had  fruit.  The  leaves  and  stems 
were  turning  brown  and  then  black  and  in  many 
cases  the  total  aboveground  plants  appeared  dead. 
Although  this  population  was  surveyed  in  Sep- 
tember, the  die-back  did  not  appear  to  be  natural 
senescence  due  to  lateness  of  the  season,  since 
other  species  were  quite  healthy.  During  Level  1 
monitoring  in  August  1991  (Figure  1),  the  plants 
still  appeared  unhealthy.  The  data  showed  that  23 
percent  of  the  plants  were  diseased. 

As  mentioned  above,  Cimicifuga  arizonica  was 
first  collected  on  Bill  Williams  Mountain  in 
August  of  1883  by  H.H.  Rusby.  The  Bill  WiUiams 
population  has  larger  plants  than  West  Clear 
Creek,  as  shown  by  the  number  of  leaves  (Figure 
2).  Leaf  counts  for  that  population  range  from  1  to 
17  leaves.  The  Bill  Williams  population  occurs  at 
2546  m  in  elevation.  This  location  is  the  highest 
elevation  of  the  known  populations.  The  first 
Level  1  monitoring  was  conducted  in  1990  and  the 
second  visit  was  September  9,  1995.  All  plants 
recorded  in  1990  were  still  present  and  healthy  in 
1995,  and  five  new  plants  were  recorded.  The 
population  appears  to  be  healthy  and  stable. 

Direct  effects  resulting  from  livestock  grazing 
or  trampling  were  noted  at  the  Maple  Spring 
population  in  1982,  but  they  were  minor  and  did 
not  appear  to  adversely  affect  this  population 
(Goodwin  1982  in  USDA  Forest  Service  1978- 
1994).  Signs  of  disease  have  been  observed  also  in 
the  Maple  Spring  population,  as  indicated  by 
wilted  leaves  and /or  fungal  infections.  Level  1 
monitoring  from  1992  indicated  that  60  percent  of 
the  plants  showed  symptoms.  The  cause(s)  and 
effect(s)  of  the  disease  are  unknown  at  this  time. 

Signs  of  cattle  grazing  on  the  flower  heads 
were  noticed  in  1993  in  the  West  Fork  of  Oak 
Creek  population.  Level  1  monitoring  was  done  in 
the  same  summer,  but  in  a  different  site.  This 
population  is  the  northwesternmost  within  the 
Oak  Creek  population  area.  The  plants  appeared 
healthy  and  vigorous. 

James  Canyon  is  the  newest  population, 
found  in  1994  by  a  spotted  owl  crew.  We  con- 
ducted Level  1  monitoring  in  1994.  Since  we  have 
only  observed  this  site  one  time,  we  don't  know 
the  long-term  history  for  this  population;  however, 
it  appears  to  be  healthy.  This  location  had  800+ 
plants  and  most  were  flowering. 


Four  localities  were  visited  in  1995  for  Level  2 
monitoring:  Lower  West  Fork,  Pumphouse,  Fry, 
and  Secret  canyons.  Plants  at  all  sites  were  very 
healthy.  Two  sites  in  Lower  West  Fork  had  been 
eradicated  in  January  and  February  1993  by  the 
tremendous  floods  that  occurred  in  the  Oak  Creek 
Canyon  drainage  area.  Several  other  sites  had  been 
impacted  by  the  floods.  These  sites  appeared  to  be 
recovering  and  plants  are  re-establishing.  More 
sites  and  higher  plant  numbers  were  recorded  in 
Pumphouse,  Fry,  and  Secret  canyons  than  when 
the  sites  had  been  visited  initially  in  1984.  Many 
juvenile  plants  were  noted  and  adult  plants  were 
flowering  and  fruiting  profusely.  Little  pathology 
was  noted  at  these  sites. 

Discussion 

Most  of  the  populations  are  obviously  doing 
very  well.  All  plants  recorded  in  1990  in  the  Bill 
Williams  population  were  still  present  and  healthy 
in  1995  and  five  new  plants  were  recorded.  The 
population  appears  to  be  healthy  and  stable.  This 
population  has  larger  plants  than  the  other  sam- 
pled populations,  as  shown  by  the  number  of 
leaves  (ranging  from  1  to  17  leaves  in  1990  and  1- 
13  leaves  in  1995).  The  four  other  populations'  leaf 
counts  range  from  1  to  8  leaves  (Figure  1). 

The  large  numbers  of  juvenile  plants  in  Pump- 
house, Fry,  and  Secret  canyons  is  tentatively  attri- 
buted to  the  effects  of  January  and  February  1993 
floods  washing  away  deep  litter  and  exposing 
mineral  soil  and  perhaps  reducing  competition, 
making  favorable  seedbeds  for  the  species.  Several 
factors  could  be  contributing  to  the  plants  appear- 
ing unhealthy  in  West  Clear  Creek,  including 
climate  and  trampling /browsing  by  deer.  Signs  of 
disease  have  been  observed  also  in  the  Maple 
Spring  population,  as  indicated  by  wilted  leaves 
and /or  fungal  infections.  Level  1  monitoring  from 
1992  indicated  that  60  percent  of  the  plants 
showed  symptoms.  The  cause(s)  and  effect(s)  of 
the  disease  are  unknown  at  this  time. 

Laura  E.  DeWald,  Assistant  Professor,  North- 
ern Arizona  University  School  of  Forestry,  has 
recently  initiated  research  that  will  contribute  to 
the  conservation  of  Arizona  bugbane  through 
improved  understanding  of  the  genetic  structure 
of  the  species.  The  specific  objectives  for  this 
research  are  (1)  to  quantify  the  morphological 
variation  among  the  four  wild  populations  and 
one  captive  population  of  Arizona  bugbane,  (2)  to 
quantify  the  genetic  diversity  within  and  between 
the  four  wild  populations  and  one  captive  popula- 


216 


Figure  1.  Cimicifuga  arizonica  plots:  four  sites,  phenology  1991-1994. 


Figure  2.  Cimicifuga  arizor\ica  Bill  Williams  plot:  phenology  1990  and  1995. 


217 


tion  of  Arizona  bugbane,  and  (3)  to  compare  the 
within  and  between  population  levels  of  genetic 
diversity  of  the  four  wild  populations  to  the  cap- 
tive population  of  Arizona  bugbane. 

The  knowledge  we  gain  about  Arizona  bug- 
bane as  we  continue  to  implement  this  conserva- 
tion assessment  and  strategy  will  contribute  to  the 
management  and  conservation  of  this  rare  endem- 
ic species  in  Arizona  and  will  indicate  the  serious- 
ness given  to  the  plant  management  by  the  U.S. 
Forest  Service. 

Literature  Cited 

Compton,  J.  1994.  October  21,  1994  letter  from  James 
Compton,  University  of  Reading,  United  Kingdom  to 
Dr.  Barbara  G.  Phillips,  USDA  Forest  Service. 

Falk,  D.A.  and  P.  Warren  1994.  Rare  plants  of  the 
Coronado  National  Forest:  Population  studies  and 
monitoring  recommendations.  The  Nature  Conser- 
vancy, Arizona  Chapter,  Tucson,  Arizona.  Prepared 
for  the  Coronado  National  Forest,  USDA  Forest 
Service.  181  pp. 

Gobar,  C.F.  1992.  Synopsis  of  information  to  date. 
Workman  Creek  population,  Tonto  National  Forest. 
Tonto  National  Forest,  USDA  Forest  Service.  4  pp. 

Kaye,  T.  and  M.  Kirkland.  1994.  Cimicifiiga  data:  Status, 
habitat  analysis,  monitoring,  inventory,  and  effects  of 
timber  management,  1993  report.  Plant  Conservation 
Biology  Program.  Oregon  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture. 49  pp. 


Kearney,  T.H.  and  R.H.  Peebles.  1969.  Arizona  Flora. 

Second  edition  with  supplement  by  J.T.  Howell,  E. 

McClintock,  and  collaborators.  University  of  Cali- 
fornia Press,  Berkeley. 
Kumazawa,  M.  1931.  Morphological  studies  of  Anem- 

onopsis,  Actaea,  and  Cimicifiiga.  Journal  Faculty 

Science  Imperial  University  of  Tokyo  2(6):413-453. 
Pellmyr,  O.  1985.  Pollination  Ecology  of  Cimicifiiga 

arizonica   (Ranunculaceae).   Botanical  Gazette 

146(3):404-412. 
Phillips,  B.,  N.  Green,  J.  Mazzoni,  L.T.  Green  III,  and  A. 

Phillips.  1982.  Status  report:  Cimicifiiga  arizonica 

Wats.  Museum  of  Northern  Arizona,  Flagstaff. 

Submitted  to  USDI  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 

Albuqerque,  NM.  15  pp. 
USDA  Forest  Service.  1978-1994.  Habitat  study  area 

notes  for  Cimicifiiga  arizonica.  Coconino  National 

Forest. 

USDA  Forest  Service.  1995.  Arizona  Bugbane  {Cimicifiiga 
arizonica)  conservation  assessment  and  strategy  on 
Coconino  and  Kaibab  national  forests.  1995-2005. 
Coconino  National  Forest.  52  pp. 

Warren,  P.L.  1991.  Monitoring  Arizona  bugbane 
{Cimicifiiga  arizonica)  in  the  Bill  Williams  Botanical 
Area,  Kaibab  National  Forest.  Arizona  Nature 
Conservancy.  Submitted  to  USDA  Forest  Service, 
Kaibab  National  Forest.  8  pp. 


218 


Consequences  of  Land  Management  Practices  on 
Willows  and  Higher  Trophic  Levels 

PETER  W.  PRICE,!  TIMOTHY  G.  C  ARR,^  and  ANDY  M.  ORMORQI 

■^Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff  86011 
^Present  address:  Section  of  Ecology  &  Systematics,  Corson  Lab.,  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  NY  14853 

Abstract:  A  broad  perspective  on  the  current  status  of  willow  populations  in  Arizona  is 
developed  based  on  a  landscape  scale  view  of  plant  demography  in  space  and  a  long-term 
temporal  view  since  the  Pleistocene.  For  germination  and  establishment,  willows  need  moist 
mineral  soil  at  higher  levels  of  precipitation  than  normal  for  at  least  2  years.  In  Arizona, 
regeneration  may  be  successful  only  once  or  twice  in  a  century  even  if  disturbance  creates 
mineral  soils.  However,  declining  disturbance  over  the  landscape  has  greatly  reduced  the 
possibility  for  wiUow  regeneration.  Since  the  end  of  the  Pleistocene  glacial/pluvial  period, 
when  conditions  in  Arizona  were  probably  excellent  for  willows,  gradual  drying  has  resulted 
in  wiUow  species  with  decreasing  population  sizes  and  ranges,  with  some  only  in  relictual 
stands.  With  little  or  no  regeneration  and  small  isolated  populations,  the  biodiversity  of  in- 
sect herbivores  and  their  carnivores  supported  by  willows  has  inevitably  declined,  probably 
by  50  percent  of  species  or  more.  Simple  land  management  practices  could  divert  the  course 
to  local  extinction  of  several  willow  species  in  Arizona. 


Introduction 

There  is  a  growing  realization  that  to  preserve 
any  species  it  is  important  that  the  whole  ecosys- 
tem should  be  preserved,  and  ecosystem  preserva- 
tion rather  than  species  preservation  should  be  our 
focus.  Any  terrestrial  ecosystem  is  composed  of 
landscapes  with  mosaics  of  plant  species,  each 
species  supporting  a  trophic  system  of  herbivores 
and  carnivores.  Plant  species  and  community 
composition  change  over  the  landscapes  and 
through  time  such  that  the  view  of  a  dynamic 
biotic  landscape  is  essential  in  understanding  the 
manner  in  which  such  landscapes  will  change  in 
the  near  and  longer-term  future  for  all  species  in 
the  trophic  system  of  plants,  their  herbivores,  and 
carnivores. 

The  focus  of  this  paper  is  on  willow  species  in 
Arizona  and  their  associated  insect  herbivores  and 
carnivores,  with  emphasis  on  the  dynamics  of 
populations  over  the  landscape  in  space  and  time. 
Associated  studies  in  Alaska,  Finland,  and  Japan 
have  aided  the  formulation  of  a  general  perspec- 
tive on  the  dynamics  of  willows  and  herbivores  in 
space  over  the  Northern  Hemisphere  and  in  time 
since  the  last  Pleistocene  glaciation. 

Superimposed  on  the  natural  course  of  vegeta- 
tion dynamics  are  the  human  influences  on  water 
use  and  flow,  fire,  large  mammalian  herbivores, 
and  soil  disturbance,  all  relevant  to  the  demo- 
graphics of  willows  and  their  herbivores.  There- 


fore, to  understand  plant  species  and  their  conser- 
vation, landscape  dynamics  should  be  viewed  as 
far  as  possible  in  a  primaeval  setting  first,  free  of 
human  activity,  for  this  is  the  landscape  in  which 
the  species  have  been  evolving  and  to  which  they 
have  become  adapted.  From  this  perspective  we 
can  then  develop  a  view  of  how  humans  have 
modified  the  natural  system  and  how  the  modifi- 
cation impacts  plants  and  their  herbivores.  This 
step-wise  approach  is  taken  in  our  paper.  We 
examine  willow  demography  in  space,  then  time, 
and  willow  growth  and  willow  modular  structure 
relevant  to  conservation  of  the  willows  and  higher 
trophic  levels. 

Willow  Demography  in  Space 

Willows  produce  small  seeds  with  short-term 
viability.  Seeds  can  disperse  extensively  on  a  cot- 
tony plume  of  hairs  and  germinate  rapidly  on 
moist  mineral  soils.  Plants  establish  where  fresh 
alluvial  soils  have  been  deposited  and  when 
competition  from  other  species  is  minimal.  They 
are  colonizing  species,  usually  among  the  first  to 
colonize  newly  available  mineral  soil  (e.g.,  Viereck 
et  al.  1993). 

In  northern  Arizona,  seedlings  of  willows  such 
as  Salix  lasiolepis  Benth.  became  established  only 
under  rare  conditions  of  average  or  above  average 
winter  precipitation  followed  by  above  average 
precipitation  in  June  (Sacchi  and  Price  1992).  Such 


219 


conditions  occurred  in  only  2  out  of  30  years  in  the 
vicinity  of  Flagstaff.  In  addition,  second-year  seed- 
lings were  intolerant  of  drought  in  June,  meaning 
that  higher  than  average  precipitation  was  neces- 
sary for  at  least  2  consecutive  years  for  survival  of 
cohorts  to  year  3  when  root  systems  were  devel- 
oped sufficiently  to  withstand  the  typical  June 
drought  (Sacchi  and  Price  1992).  Under  these  con- 
straints we  may  expect  successful  establishment  of 
willow  cohorts  in  northern  Arizona  to  occur  as 
rare  events,  perhaps  only  once  or  twice  in  a 
century. 

Not  only  are  those  weather  conditions  suitable 
for  willow  establishment  rare  in  northern  Arizona, 
but  also  the  deposition  of  alluvial  soil  beds  for 
germination  in  the  absence  of  competition  is  infre- 
quent and  patchy.  Runoff  is  insufficient  along  the 
small  intermittent  streams  on  the  Colorado  Pla- 
teau to  produce  large  beds  of  alluvium  suitable  for 
germination  and  survival. 

On  a  primaeval  landscape  fire  was  common 
and  extensive  on  the  Colorado  Plateau  (Dieterich 
1980).  The  fires  common  in  ponderosa  pine  forests 
would  have  burned  no  doubt  into  riparian  habitats 
with  willows  (Stein  et  al.  1992),  creating  extensive 
expanses  of  mineral  soil  probably  suitable  for 
establishment  of  willow  seedlings.  In  addition, 
uninterrupted  runoff  from  snow  melt  would  have 
caused  more  erosion  and  deposition  than  at  pres- 
ent, creating  natural  mineral  soil  beds. 

On  a  landscape  managed  by  humans,  the 
effects  of  fire  have  been  reduced  drastically  and 
runoff  is  reduced,  both  with  consequences  for  wil- 
low regeneration.  On  the  other  hand,  disturbance 
has  been  increased  by  construction  activity  with 
roadside  ditches,  borrow  pits,  cattle  tanks,  chan- 
nelization, and  city  parks,  with  many  disturbances 
creating  conditions  that  enhance  the  persistence  of 
surface  water,  moist  soil  conditions,  and  viability 
of  willow  seedlings.  However,  the  presence  of 
cattle  and  probably  increased  numbers  of  elk  and 
deer  have  no  doubt  increased  grazing  levels  above 
the  natural  level.  These  grazers  kill  young  plants. 

The  interplay  of  natural  and  human  activity 
result  in  a  mosaic  of  willow  patches  over  a  land- 
scape, with  regeneration  from  seed  being  rare, 
cohorts  of  willows  aging  through  time,  and  an 
unstable  age  structure  with  a  preponderance  of 
mature  or  overmature  plants.  This  causes  concern 
among  conservationists  for  the  viability  of  several 
species  of  willow  in  Arizona:  S.  arizonica  Dom,  S. 
bebbiana  Sarg.,  and  S.  scouleriana  Barratt.  Whether 
upland  species  like  S.  scouleriana  or  wetland  spe- 
cies like  S.  bebbiana,  the  same  kinds  of  forces  are 


resulting  in  insufficient  disturbance  and  moisture 
combined  to  allow  frequent  regeneration  and  the 
development  of  populations  with  a  stable  age 
structure  in  any  of  the  species. 

Willow  Demography  in  Time 

At  the  end  of  the  last  Pleistocene  glaciation, 
willow  species  were  among  the  major  colonists  on 
the  mineral  soil  left  behind  the  glaciers.  Generally 
willow  species  are  well  represented  in  the  pollen 
record  for  woody  plants  immediately  after  glacia- 
tion (e.g.,  Anderson  et  al.  1986,  Ritchie  1977,  Ed- 
wards et  al.  1985,  Hu  et  al.  1993).  Willows  remain 
dominant  colonizers  of  new  alluvium  along  the 
glacial  rivers  in  Alaska  today  (Viereck  et  al.  1993). 
Unfortunately,  no  pollen  record  has  been  pub- 
lished for  northern  Arizona.  But  it  is  most  likely, 
since  there  were  small  glaciers  on  the  San  Fran- 
cisco Peaks  (Sharp  1942,  Pewe  and  Updike  1976), 
and  high  precipitation  during  the  glacial/pluvial 
period,  that  conditions  for  willow  species  were 
excellent  and  stands  were  extensive. 

During  the  interglacial  period  we  are  now  in, 
at  the  southern  end  of  the  major  willow  distribu- 
tion, we  can  expect  conditions  to  have  become 
increasingly  less  favorable  for  willows  in  terms  of 
climatic  and  edaphic  factors.  Ranges  have  no 
doubt  contracted  over  the  past  11,000  years  until 
in  some  cases  we  have  relict  populations  in  Ari- 
zona, such  as  Arizona  and  Bebb's  willow,  which 
were  probably  members  of  contiguous  popula- 
tions over  much  of  the  area  south  of  the  glaciation. 

What  has  occurred  through  time  in  Arizona  is 
also  more  or  less  displayed  in  space  on  a  north- 
south  gradient  from  Alaska  to  Arizona.  In  Alaska, 
willows  are  still  dominant  members  of  landscapes 
with  large  glacial  river  valleys  in  a  perpetual  state 
of  change  resulting  from  erosion  and  deposition  of 
alluvium.  In  Arizona,  the  landscape  has  become 
much  drier  and  much  more  static  with  so  little 
disturbance  and  soil  moisture  that  some  willow 
species  are  unable  to  regenerate. 

We  may  expect  the  present  interglacial  to 
persist  for  another  11,000  years.  We  are  only  about 
halfway  through  this  interglacial  period  and  yet 
even  now  some  willow  species  are  not  regenerat- 
ing in  this  state.  With  the  gradual  loss  of  individ- 
uals in  willow  populations  through  senescence 
and  death,  we  may  well  anticipate  extinction  of 
species  in  Arizona  before  the  next  glacial/ pluvial 
period  is  initiated.  While  willow  species  do  persist, 
we  can  expect  to  see  declining  populations  of  old 
and  senescent  plants,  with  minimal  or  no  regen- 
eration. 


220 


Consequences  for  Higher 
Trophic  Levels 

Changes  in  willow  populations  over  the  land- 
scape in  space  and  time  have  strong  influences  on 
the  biodiversity  of  organisms  dependent  upon 
willows.  As  willow  populations  age,  many  herbi- 
vore species  become  less  able  to  persist  locally.  As 
willow  populations  decline  in  area  occupied  and 
number  of  individuals,  they  are  likely  to  support  a 
declining  number  of  insect  herbivores.  These 
effects  no  doubt  impact  the  higher  trophic  level  of 
carnivores  in  turn.  These  two  considerations  of 
aging  populations  and  reduced  numbers  and 
range  over  the  landscape  will  be  discussed  in  turn. 

Age  Effects  on  the  Fauna 

As  stems  of  willows  age,  shoot  growth  per 
year  declines  from  rapidly  growing  long  juvenile 
shoots  to  slower-growing,  shorter  shoots  produc- 
ing catkins  (Craig  et  al.  1986,  Price  et  al.  1987a, 
1987b,  Roininen  et  al.  1993).  This  pattern  is  seen  in 
tree  species  like  S.  bebhiana  and  shrub  species  such 
as  S.  lasiolepis  in  Arizona.  In  the  shrub  species, 
multiple  stems  are  produced  from  a  common 
rootstock  and  clones  develop  by  layering  from 
branches  depressed  to  the  ground  by  heavy  snow. 
Thus,  while  a  tree  produces  one  main  stem,  the 
shrubs  produce  many  stems  through  ramification, 
which  are  referred  to  as  ramets.  Ramets  age  in  the 
same  kind  of  way  as  the  stems  of  trees. 

Many  insect  herbivores  on  willows  are  able  to 
utilize  only  rapidly  growing  plants  and  without 
constant  production  of  young  individuals  or  juve- 
nile growth,  such  herbivores  became  uncommon, 
rare,  or  locally  extinct.  Examples  include  several 
species  of  sawflies,  both  galling  and  free-feeding, 
other  gaUing  insects,  and  several  aphid  species. 

As  an  example  of  the  tight  linkage  between 
rapid  willow  growth  and  herbivore  utilization,  the 
shoot-galling  sawfly,  Euura  lasiolepis  Smith,  on  S. 
lasiolepis  is  one  of  the  best  studied  (Craig  et  al. 
1986,  1989).  Although  shorter  shoots  on  older 
ramets  are  very  common  in  a  clone  and  long 
juvenile  shoots  are  scarce,  oviposition  by  sawflies 
is  concentrated  on  the  longest,  rarest  shoots.  It  is 
only  on  these  long  shoots  that  larvae  are  able  to 
survive.  Hence,  populations  decline  as  willow 
clones  age  and  the  shoot  population  becomes 
shorter  (Price  et  al.  1990). 

With  so  little  disturbance  on  the  landscape, 
young  juvenile  shoots  on  some  willow  species, 
such  as  S.  scouleriana,  have  become  so  sparse  that 
sawflies  restricted  to  such  shoots  have  become 


very  rare  and  would  certainly  be  considered  as 
endangered  species  if  more  was  known  of  them 
and  they  were  vertebrates.  One  species  of  bud- 
galling  sawfly  is  known  at  only  one  locality  on  S. 
scouleriana  in  the  inner  basin  of  the  San  Francisco 
Peaks.  Here  rock  slides  and  heavy  snow  cause 
breakage  of  mature  ramets  and  basal  resprouting 
produces  juvenile  shoots.  This  is  the  only  site  in 
Arizona  we  know  in  which  natural  disturbance  is 
sufficient  to  maintain  vigorously  growing  ramets 
and  something  like  a  stable  age  structure  of 
ramets. 

As  herbivores  become  rarer  on  increasingly 
sparse  willow  resources,  so  the  effects  move  up 
the  trophic  system  to  the  carnivores.  These  include 
many  species  of  parasitic  wasps,  such  that  any  one 
herbivore  species  supports  several  to  many  carni- 
vore species.  Thus,  as  willows  become  rare  and 
endangered,  much  biodiversity  is  lost,  because  the 
richness  of  the  fauna  based  on  any  willow  species 
increases  with  each  trophic  level. 

Of  course,  there  are  probably  some  herbivores 
on  willows  that  survive  best  on  older  growth  and 
these  might  be  favored  by  present  conditions. 
However,  it  is  only  in  stable-aged  populations  of 
young  to  old  individuals  that  the  full  biodiversity 
in  higher  trophic  levels  can  be  maintained. 

Island  Biogeographical  Ejfects  on  the  Fauna 

The  Theory  of  Island  Biogeography  formu- 
lated by  MacArthur  and  Wilson  (1967)  has  been 
applied  to  plant  species  and  populations  as  if  they 
were  islands  on  which  insect  herbivores  live. 
Whether  for  oceanic  islands  or  plant  islands,  in 
general  there  is  a  decline  in  species  richness  as 
islands  become  smaller  and  more  distant  from  a 
source  of  colonists — a  mainland  (e.g..  Price  1984). 
As  a  rule  of  thumb  when  islands  decrease  in  size 
to  only  10  percent  of  their  former  size  through 
habitat  fragmentation  or  contraction  of  geographic 
range,  then  a  50  percent  reduction  of  the  species 
richness  on  that  island  will  be  inevitable  (Wilson 
1992). 

We  are  unaware  of  any  estimates  of  the  geo- 
graphical range  of  willow  species  in  Arizona 
during  or  following  the  Pleistocene,  but  certainly 
their  biogeographical  ranges  have  declined  dra- 
matically since  then  and  have  become  increasingly 
isolated  from  the  core  populations,  which  have 
migrated  into  cooler,  wetter  regions.  To  estimate  a 
90  percent  reduction  in  the  geographic  range  of 
some  willows,  such  as  S.  arizonica  and  S.  bebbiana 
in  Arizona,  with  a  consequent  loss  of  50  percent  of 
their  specialized  insect  fauna,  would  probably  be  a 


221 


gross  underestimate.  More  likely  only  1-3  percent 
of  the  former  range  is  now  occupied  and  the  fauna 
on  such  willows  are  largely  extinct  or  heavily 
threatened  in  Arizona.  Certainly,  there  has  been 
significant  reduction  in  biodiversity  on  most 
willow  species  with  currently  narrow  and  isolated 
ranges  in  Arizona.  Given  land  management  prac- 
tices today,  we  can  predict  only  continuing  decline 
in  willow  populations  and  reduced  biodiversity  of 
herbivores  and  carnivores  on  these  willows. 

Discussion 

This  attempt  to  provide  a  broad  perspective  of 
willow  species  dynamics  over  the  landscape  and 
through  time  enables  development  of  a  rational 
management  plan,  because  we  understand  where 
willow  populations  have  probably  been  in  Ari- 
zona and  where  they  are  going.  Clearly,  for  several 
willow  species  such  as  S.arizonica,  S.  bebbiana,  and 
S.  scouleriana,  and  perhaps  the  majority  of  willow 
species  in  Arizona,  populations  show  unstable  age 
distributions.  There  are  generally  far  too  few 
individuals  in  the  younger  age  classes  and  far  too 
many  in  the  old  age  classes.  Populations  are  per- 
sisting largely  because  of  the  longevity  of  individ- 
uals rather  than  by  their  replacement.  Under  these 
conditions  there  is  inevitably  gradual  attrition, 
leading  eventually  to  local  extinction  before 
another  ice  age  is  initiated. 

This  ebb  and  flow  of  species  over  the  land- 
scape is  of  course  a  natural  process  and  local 
extinction  of  species  is  as  natural  as  the  origin  of 
new  species.  Modern  landscape  management  no 
doubt  accelerates  the  process  in  Arizona  by  reduc- 
ing natural  disturbance.  But  management  for 
conservation  of  the  willow  species  appears  to  be  a 
simple  matter  conceptually,  usually  involving 
restoration  of  water  drainages,  exclusion  of  cattle, 
creation  of  moist  mineral  soil  patches  for  germi- 
nation of  seed  and  establishment  of  seedlings,  and 
perhaps  the  judicious  use  of  controlled  bums. 

Only  one  willow  species  in  Arizona  seems  to 
have  benefited  somewhat  from  human  disturb- 
ance, through  construction.  That  is  S.  lasiolepis, 
which  grows  in  wet  sites  around  2,300  m  a.s.l.  on 
the  Colorado  Plateau.  Here  road  construction 
especially  has  opened  up  new  habitat  in  the  form 
of  roadside  ditches  and  borrow  pits.  However,  this 
activity  has  less  than  compensated  for  destruction 
of  riparian  habitat  by  building  and  channelization 
and  populations  are  dominated  by  old  or  senes- 
cent ramets. 


Other  willows  in  northern  Arizona  grow  at 
higher  elevations  away  from  major  construction, 
but  are  nonetheless  impacted  by  reduced  water 
flows,  increased  grazing  pressure,  and  reduced 
fire. 

Understanding  the  likely  natural  course  of 
plant  distribution  over  the  landscape  through  tens 
of  thousands  of  years  appears  to  clarify  planning 
and  decisions  on  conservation  of  plant  species  and 
the  biodiversity  they  support.  Apparently,  willows 
are  in  inevitable  decline  in  Arizona  for  natural  rea- 
sons, probably  accelerated  by  land  management 
practices.  Such  decline  is  likely  to  result  in  local 
extinction  of  some  willow  species  before  the  next 
glaciation.  Thus  there  is  a  simple  conservation 
decision  to  intervene  or  not.  If  intervention  is 
advocated,  then  sooner  is  better  than  later,  because 
with  larger  populations  genetic  heterogeneity  is 
likely  to  be  higher  and  more  of  the  biodiversity  in 
upper  trophic  levels  will  be  conserved. 

Acknowledgment 

For  research  on  willows,  their  herbivores  and 
carnivores,  we  are  grateful  for  financial  assistance 
from  Northern  Arizona  University  and  the  Na- 
tional Science  Foundation  (BSR-9020317  and  DEB- 
9318188). 

Literature  Cited 

Anderson,  R.S.,  R.B.  Davis,  N.G.  Miller,  and  R.  Stuck- 
enrath.  1986.  History  of  late-  and  post-glacial 
vegetation  and  disturbance  around  Upper  South 
Branch  Pond,  northern  Maine.  Canadian  Journal  of 
Botany  64:1977-1986. 

Craig,  T.P.,  P.W.  Price,  and  J.K.  Itami.  1986.  Resource 
regulation  by  a  stem-galling  sawfly  on  the  arroyo 
willow.  Ecology  67:419-425. 

Craig,  T.P.,  J.K.  Itami,  and  P.W.  Price.  1989.  A  strong 
relationship  between  oviposition  preference  and 
larval  perfomance  in  a  shoot-galling  sawfly.  Ecology 
70:1691-1699. 

Dieterich,  J.H.  1980.  Chimney  Spring  forest  fire  history. 
USDA  Forest  Service  Research  Paper  RM-220. 

Edwards,  M.E.,  P.M.  Anerson,  H.L.  Garfinkel,  and  L.B. 
Brubaker.  1985.  Late  Wisconsin  and  Holocene 
vegetational  history  of  the  Upper  Koyukuk  region. 
Brooks  Range,  AK.  Canadian  Journal  of  Botany 
63:616-626. 

Hu,  F.S.,  L.B.  Brubaker  and  P.M.  Anderson.  1993.  A 
12,000  year  record  of  vegetation  change  and  soil 
development  from  Wien  Lake,  central  Alaska. 
Canadian  Journal  of  Botany  71:1133-1142. 

Macarthur,  R.H.,  and  E.G.  Wilson.  1967.  The  theory  of 
island  biogeography.  Princeton  University  Press, 
Princeton,  NJ. 


222 


Pewe,  T.L.,  and  R.G.  Updike.  1976.  San  Francisco  Peaks: 
A  Guidebook  to  the  Geology.  2nd  ed.  Northern 
Arizona  Society  of  Science  and  Art,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

Price,  P.W.  1984.  Insect  Ecology.  2nd  ed.  Wiley,  New 
York. 

Price,  P.W.,  H.  Roininen,  and  J.  Tahvanainen.  1987a. 
Plant  age  and  attack  by  the  bud  galler,  Eiiura  nmcro- 
mta .  Oecologia  73:334-337. 

Price,  P.W.,  H.  Roininen,  and  J.  Tahvanainen.  1987b. 
Why  does  the  bud-galling  sawfly,  Eiiura  micronata, 
attack  long  shoots?  Oecologia  74:1-6. 

Price,  P.W.,  N.  Cobb,  T.P.  Craig,  G.W.  Fernandes,  J.K. 
Itami,  S.  Mopper,  and  R.W.  Preszler.  1990.  Insect 
herbivore  population  dynamics  on  trees  and  shrubs: 
New  approaches  relevant  to  latent  and  eruptive 
species  and  life  table  development.  In  E.A.  Bernays, 
editor.  Insect-Plant  Interactions,  pp.  1-38.  CRC  Press, 
Boca  Raton,  Florida. 

Ritchie,  J.C.  1977.  The  modern  and  late  Quaternary 
vegetation  of  the  Campbell-Dolomite  uplands,  near 
Inuvik,  N.W.T.  Canada.  Ecological  Monograghs 
47:401-423. 


Roininen,  H.,  P.W.  Price,  and  J.  Tahvanainen.  1993. 
Colonization  and  extinction  in  a  population  of  the 
shoot-galling  sawfly,  Euiira  amerinae.  Oikos  68:448- 
454. 

Sacchi,  C.F.,  and  P.W.  Price.  1992.  The  relative  roles  of 
abiotic  and  biotic  factors  in  seedling  demography  of 
arroyo  willow  {Salix  lasiolepis:  Salicaceae).  American 
Journal  of  Botany  79:395-405. 

Sharp,  R.P.  1942.  Multiple  Pleistocene  glaciation  on  San 
Francisco  Mountain,  Arizona.  Journal  of  Geology 
50:481-503. 

Stein,  S.J.,  P.W.  Price,  W.G.  Abrahamson  and  C.F. 

Sacchi.  1992.  The  effect  of  fire  on  stimulating  willow 

regrowth  and  subsequent  attack  by  grasshoppers 

and  elk.  Oikos  65:190-196. 
Viereck,  L.A.,  C.T.  Dyrness,  and  M.J.  Foote.  1993.  An 

overview  of  the  vegetation  and  soils  of  the  floodplain 

ecosystems  of  the  Tanana  River,  interior  Alaska. 

Canadian  Journal  of  Forest  Research  23:889-898. 
Wilson,  E.O.  1992.  The  diversity  of  life.  W.W.  Norton, 

New  York. 


223 


Interagency  Conservation  Biology  Program  for 
Arizona  Willow  {Salix  arizonica  Dorn) 

TERESA  PRENDUSI,!  DUANE  ATWOOD,^  BRUCE  PALMER,  3  and  RON  RODRIGUEZ  4 

•'^U.S.  Forest  Service,  Southwestern  Region,  517  Gold  SW,  Albuquerque,  NM  87102 
^MBL  Life  Sciences  Museum,  Brigham  Young  University,  Provo,  UT  84602-0200 
3u.S.  Fish  &  Wildlife  Service,  AZ  Ecol.  Serv.,  2321  W.  Royal  Palm  Rd.,  Suite  103,  Phoenix  85021-4951 
4U.S.  Forest  Service,  Dixie  National  Forest,  P.O.  Box  0580,  Cedar  City,  UT  84720 

Abstract:  Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica  Dorn)  was  proposed  for  listing  as  an  endangered 
species  with  critical  habitat  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  in  November  of  1992.  At  that 
time,  it  was  known  only  from  the  vicinity  of  Mount  Baldy  in  east-central  Arizona;  no  one  was 
aware  that  the  species  occurred  in  Utah.  Subsequent  to  the  proposed  rule,  a  1913  collection 
from  what  was  then  named  Sevier  National  Forest  in  Utah  was  located  at  the  Forest  Service 
National  Collection  housed  at  the  Rocky  Mountain  Herbarium,  Laramie,  Wyoming.  The  final 
determination  for  listing  the  species  was  placed  on  hold  pending  the  results  of  field  work  in 
Utah  during  the  1994  field  season.  Survey  work  initiated  by  the  U.S.  Forest  Service  in  June  of 
1994  resulted  in  re-location  of  Arizona  willow  in  southern  Utah  on  the  Dixie  and  Fishlake 
National  Forests.  Newly  discovered  populations  in  Utah  far  exceeded  the  number  of  total 
plants  from  Arizona,  and  significantly  expanded  the  known  range  of  Arizona  willow.  The  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  and  U.S.  Forest  Service  agreed  to  work  on  the  development  of  a 
conservation  plan  for  the  species  that  would  provide  for  implementation  of  short-  and  long- 
term  protective  measures  to  reduce  threats  to  the  species  and  its  habitat.  The  resultant  Arizona 
Willow  Conservation  Agreement  and  Strategy  identified  specific  conservation  measures  for 
the  species  and  formed  the  basis  for  withdrawal  of  the  listing  proposal  in  April  1995.  It  also 
functions  as  a  collaboratively  developed  and  supported  recovery  plan  for  Arizona  willow . 


Introduction 

As  the  Endangered  Species  Act  (ESA)  contin- 
ues to  suffer  from  the  unwarranted  notion  that  it  is 
the  "pit  bull  of  environmental  laws,"  the  federal 
agencies  charged  with  its  implementation  and 
regulatory  oversight  are  increasingly  seeking 
opportunities  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  and 
workability  of  the  law  by  pursuing  innovative 
means  to  protect  rare  and  endangered  species, 
while  still  meeting  the  spirit  and  intent  of  the  Act. 
In  1994,  federal  agencies  within  the  departments  of 
Interior,  Agriculture,  Commerce,  Transportation, 
and  Defense  entered  into  an  important  Memoran- 
dum of  Understanding  (MOU)  for  the  implemen- 
tation of  the  ESA  (U.S.  National  Agencies  1994a). 
This  MOU  established  a  general  framework  for  the 
cooperation  and  participation  of  its  cooperators  to 
achieve  a  common  goal  of  conserving  species 
listed  as  threatened  or  endangered  under  the  ESA 
and  to  manage  the  ecosystems  upon  which  these 
species  depend.  A  second  MOU,  entered  into  by 
the  U.S.  Forest  Service  (FS)  and  the  departments  of 
Interior  and  Commerce,  also  in  1994,  established 
the  general  framework  for  cooperation  in  the 
conservation  of  species  that  are  trending  toward 
federal  listing  under  the  ESA  (U.S.  National  Agen- 


cies 1994b).  It  was  under  this  new  environment  of 
greater  cooperation  and  innovation  that  the 
development  of  the  interagency  Arizona  Willow 
Conservation  Agreement  and  Strategy  took  its 
successful  form  (Arizona  Willow  Interagency 
Technical  Team  1995). 

Background 

Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica)  was  described 
by  Dorn  in  1975  from  specimens  collected  from  the 
White  Mountains  in  east-central  Arizona  by  Gran- 
felt  in  1969,  who  recognized  them  as  a  distinct 
form  (Phillips  et  al.  1982).  At  that  time,  the  species 
was  known  only  along  high-elevation  streams  and 
wet  meadows  in  the  vicinity  of  Mount  Baldy,  Apa- 
che County,  Arizona,  primarily  on  the  Apache - 
Sitgreaves  National  Forests  and  Fort  Apache 
Indian  Reservation.  Extensive  surveys  conducted 
by  Phillips  et  al.  (1982),  Galeano-Popp  (1988), 
Granfelt  (1989a,  1989b),  Subirge  (Apache-Sit- 
greaves  National  Forests,  Springerville,  Arizona), 
and  others  located  the  species  in  15  drainages, 
often  as  single  individuals  widely  scattered  along 
streams. 

Arizona  wiUow  exhibits  several  growth  forms, 
including  rounded  shrub,  prostrate  mat,  and  large 


224 


hedge  or  thicket.  Plants  may  occasionally  reach  a 
height  of  3  m  or  be  as  short  as  several  centimeters, 
but  more  typically  are  less  than  0.75  m  (Galeano- 
Popp  1988).  The  mature  leaves  are  broadly  elliptic 
to  ovate,  with  rounded  or  cordate  bases,  and  are 
0.5-3  cm  in  length.  The  short  petiolate  leaf  is 
gland-tipped,  with  finely  serrate  margins  (7-21 
teeth  or  glands  per  cm).  The  midrib  of  the  leaf 
tends  to  remain  pubescent,  while  the  rest  of  the 
upper  surface  of  the  mature  leaf  may  be  slick  and 
shiny,  and  is  usually  glabrous.  The  lower  leaf 
surface  is  non-glaucous.  Pistillate  catkins  are 
densely  flowered,  1-4.5  cm  long,  with  glabrous 
ovaries.  The  inflorescence  has  brown,  black,  or 
bicolor  floral  bracts  1-2.5  mm  long,  with  wavy 
hairs  and  acute  tips  (Dorn  1975).  Present-year 
branches  are  yellow-green,  red-brown,  or  brown- 
ish in  color  and  are  pilose.  The  branches  from 
previous  growth  are  usually  bright  red,  which 
helps  distinguish  this  species  from  other  willow 
taxa  in  the  area  (Figure  1). 

Regulatory  History 

Arizona  willow's  status  as  a  very  localized 
endemic  prompted  the  inclusion  of  the  species  in 
category  1  of  the  December  15,  1980,  Federal 
Register  notice  of  plants  under  review  for  listing 
as  endangered  or  threatened  species  (USDI  1980, 
45  PR  82480).  Category  1  includes  those  taxa  for 
which  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  (FWS)  has 
sufficient  information  on  biological  vulnerability 
and  threats  to  support  the  proposal  to  list  under 
the  ESA.  This  designation  for  Arizona  willow  was 
based  on  smaU  populations  and  threats  to  riparian 
habitats  by  livestock  (Fletcher  1978).  In  1983,  the 
wiUow  was  reclassified  (USDI  1983,  48  PR  53640) 
to  category  3C,  which  includes  those  taxa  that 
have  proven  to  be  more  abimdant  or  widespread 
than  previously  thought  and  for  which  substantial 
threats  do  not  exist.  The  inclusion  of  Arizona 
wiUow  in  category  3C  was  based  on  an  assessment 
by  Phillips  et  al.  (1982)  showing  that,  although  the 
willow  was  a  narrow  endemic,  it  was  locally 
common,  with  all  known  populations  apparently 
healthy  and  reproducing.  Category  3C  species 
may  be  re-evaluated  for  possible  inclusion  in 
category  1  or  2  if  further  research  or  changes  in 
habitat  indicate  significant  decline  in  the  taxa. 

Arizona  willow  was  placed  in  category  2 
(USDI  1985,  50  PR  39526)  due  to  further  questions 
concerning  vulnerability  and  threats  to  the  small 
populations.  Category  2  are  those  taxa  for  which 
there  is  evidence  of  vulnerability  but  for  which 


there  are  not  enough  data  to  support  listing  pro- 
posals. Studies  by  Galeano-Popp  (1988)  and 
Granfelt  (1989a)  presented  additional  information 
on  vulnerability  and  threats  faced  by  this  species 
and  supported  moving  the  species  again  to  cate- 
gory 1  (USDI  1990,  55  PR  6184).  On  November  20, 
1992,  FWS  issued  a  proposed  rule  (USDI  1992,  57 
PR  54747)  to  list  Arizona  willow  as  an  endangered 
species  with  critical  habitat  based  on  historic  and 
current  threats  to  the  species.  Threats  identified  in 
the  proposed  rule  include  livestock  and  wildlife 
impacts,  water  impoundments  and  diversions, 
roads,  recreational  use,  development  and  mainte- 
nance of  ski  resort  facilities,  disease,  alteration  of 
natural  hydrologic  regimes,  and  changes  in  the 
riparian  community  species  composition  and 
structure,  including  invasion  of  normative  vegeta- 
tion, especially  Kentucky  bluegrass  {Poa  pratensis), 
brought  about  by  historic  and  current  livestock 
use. 

In  June  of  1993,  FWS  was  notified  of  a  previ- 
ously misidentified  herbarium  specimen  of  Ari- 
zona wiUow  collected  in  1913  from  what  was  then 
named  Sevier  National  Forest  in  southern  Utah. 
Surveys  initiated  by  PS  in  the  summer  of  1994 
resulted  in  the  rediscovery  of  Arizona  willow  in 
Utah  on  the  Dixie  and  Pishlake  National  Forests, 
Cedar  Breaks  National  Monument,  and  adjacent 
private  land  (Figure  2).  The  extent  of  some  indi- 
vidual populations  and  the  stature  of  Arizona 
willow  plants  in  Utah  far  exceeded  all  known 
populations  in  Arizona.  On  May  31,  1994,  the 
Southwest  Center  for  Biological  Diversity  filed  a 
Summons  and  Complaint  based  on  FWS's  failure 
to  meet  statutory  deadlines  for  publication  of  a 
final  listing  determination  for  Arizona  wiUow.  The 
FWS,  in  negotiation  with  the  plaintiffs,  reached  an 
agreement  to  take  final  action  (list  or  withdraw  the 
proposed  rule)  by  April  30, 1995,  allowing  time  for 
additional  field  surveys. 

Management  Involvement  and 
Formation  of  the  Technical  Team 

The  discovery  of  significant  Arizona  willow 
populations  in  Utah  presented  new  biological 
information  that  required  a  reassessment  of  range - 
wide  threats  to  the  species,  and  also  provided  an 
opportunity  to  pursue  new  management  options 
such  as  described  in  the  recently  developed  inter- 
agency MOUs  for  conservation  of  species  trending 
towards  federal  listing  and  for  the  implementation 
of  the  ESA.  On  September  6,  1994,  the  regional 
foresters  of  the  Southwestern  and  Intermountain 


225 


Figure  1.  Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica)  morphological  characteristics.  From  G.  Argus,  Canadian 
Museum  of  Nature,  Ottawa,  Ontario,  Canada,  with  permission.  The  scale  bars  shown  are  as  follows: 
upper  left  1  mm;  upper  right  1  mm;  center  left  1  cm;  bottom  center  1  mm;  bottom  right  1  mm. 


226 


Figure  2.  The  known  distribution  of  Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica)  following  the  completion  of  the 
1994  field  surveys. 


227 


Regions  of  the  Forest  Service,  and  the  regional 
director  of  the  FWS  Southwest  Region,  made  a 
joint  decision  to  develop  a  conservation  agreement 
and  strategy  for  Arizona  willow  on  federal  lands 
to  ensure  the  long-term  conservation  of  the  species 
throughout  its  range  within  its  natural  ecosystems. 
This  would  be  accomplished  through  the  imple- 
mentation of  actions  to  immediately  reduce  site- 
specific  threats,  provide  long-term  commitments 
to  protect  and  improve  habitats,  and  carry  out 
proactive  conservation  actions.  The  Arizona 
willow  interagency  technical  team  was  formed  to 
develop  and  implement  the  Arizona  Willow  Con- 
servation Agreement  and  Strategy.  Concurrent 
with  the  development  of  the  federal  agency  con- 
servation agreement  for  federal  lands,  the  White 
Mountain  Apache  Tribe  developed  its  own 
Arizona  willow  management  plan  for  the  Fort 
Apache  Indian  Reservation,  which  is  consistent 
with,  and  complementary  to,  the  strategies  and 
intent  set  forth  in  the  Arizona  willow  conservation 
documents. 

Development  of  the  Conservation 
Document 

The  Arizona  Willow  Conservation  Agreement 
and  Strategy  was  developed  by  the  FWS,  FS,  and 
National  Park  Service  (NFS)  in  cooperation  with 
the  Arizona  Game  and  Fish  Department,  Utah  Di- 
vision of  Wildlife  Resources,  and  White  Mountain 
Apache  Tribe.  Many  non-agency  experts  provided 
the  interagency  technical  team  with  additional 
scientific  data  and  support  in  the  development  of 
this  document. 

There  are  three  key  components  to  the  Ari- 
zona willow  conservation  document:  the  assess- 
ment, the  strategy,  and  the  agreement. 

1.  Conservation  Assessment — This  presents 
the  existing  data  available  for  Arizona  willow 
throughout  its  range.  The  biology  of  the  species, 
including  its  description,  distribution,  and  habitat 
requirements,  are  discussed  in  this  portion  of  the 
document.  Land  uses,  habitat  modification,  and 
impacts  from  past  and  current  threats  are  evalu- 
ated. Current  protection  mechanisms  available  to 
Arizona  willow  are  reviewed. 

2.  Conservation  Strategy — This  outlines  a 
framework  for  management  actions  that  provide 
for  the  immediate  and  long-term  conservation  of 
the  species  within  its  ecosystem  throughout  its 
range.  This  portion  of  the  document  details  spe- 
cific actions  and  timeframes  that  the  management 
agencies  agree  to  implement.  These  actions  are  to 


reduce  threats,  improve  habitat  conditions,  initiate 
monitoring  studies,  and  support  research  projects 
on  the  biology  and  ecology  of  the  species  to  deter- 
mine appropriate  management  practices  for  the 
Icmg-term  conservation  of  the  species. 

3.  Conservation  Agreement — This  is  the  for- 
mal written  portion  of  the  document  agreed  to  by 
FWS,  FS,  and  NFS.  It  documents  the  specific 
actions  and  responsibilities  for  which  each  party 
agrees  to  be  held  accountable.  The  agreement  is  a 
signed  commitment  by  agency  executives  and  line 
officers  to  implement  their  respective  portions  of 
the  conservation  document.  The  FWS  may  enter 
into  similar  agreements  with  state  agencies,  tribes, 
or  the  private  sector  to  achieve  conservation  of 
species  through  voluntary  cooperation. 

What  Does  the  Conservation 
Document  Do? 

The  agreement  documents  specific  actions  and 
responsibilities  to  be  undertaken  by  each  party  to 
achieve  recovery  of  the  species.  It  provides  for 
immediate  protection  to  Arizona  willow  plants, 
establishes  a  program  for  long-term  conservation 
and  recovery,  and  applies  an  ecosystem  approach 
to  the  management  of  high-altitude  riparian  habi- 
tats. Fifteen  other  rare  plant  and  animal  species 
will  be  the  direct  beneficiaries  of  this  conservation 
effort. 

Some  specific  conservation  actions  for  Arizona 
willow  include  construction  of  protective  fences, 
exclosures,  and  cages,  resting  pastures  from  graz- 
ing, and  application  of  FS  Standards  and  Guide- 
lines for  management  of  riparian  areas.  The 
Agreement  includes  an  annual  schedule  of  actions 
and  budgeting  to  ensure  that  conservation  activi- 
ties are  implemented  in  a  timely  manner. 

The  agreement  sets  up  an  interagency  techni- 
cal review  team  that  oversees  monitoring  of  Ari- 
zona willow  populations,  reviews  annual  progress 
and  implementation,  and  makes  recommendations 
for  management.  The  agreement  is  adaptive  in 
that  it  allows  for  changes  and/ or  modification  to 
the  document  based  on  the  results  of  monitoring, 
new  research  data,  or  management  considerations. 

Advantages  of  Conservation 
Agreements 

The  main  advantage  in  developing  conserva- 
tion documents  is  to  provide  signed  commitments 
and  agency  strategies  to  implement  programs  for 
the  protection  and  conservation  of  rare  species.  It 
is  not  one  agency  telling  another  what  to  do.  These 


228 


collaboratively  developed  documents  allow  agen- 
cies to  work  together  to  achieve  common  goals, 
assemble  interdisciplinary  teams  of  specialists, 
and  provide  recommendations  to  land  managers. 
They  ensure  adherence  to  all  legal  requirements 
and  provide  a  basis  for,  and  commitment  to,  the 
new  direction. 

A  conservation  agreement  can  also  function  as 
a  collaboratively  developed  and  supported  recov- 
ery plan  for  a  species.  Recovery  plans  are  usually 
developed  by  FWS  for  species  that  have  been 
formally  listed  as  threatened  or  endangered  under 
the  ESA.  The  Arizona  Willow  Conservation 
Agreement  and  Strategy  is  different  in  that  it  is  a 
jointly  developed  document,  and  has  the  up-front 
support  and  commitment  of  all  involved  parties. 

Although  Arizona  willow  is  still  considered 
rare  and  potentially  vulnerable,  the  new  distribu- 
tion data,  in  combination  with  the  management 
commitments  in  the  Arizona  willow  conservation 
documents,  reduce  the  relative  magnitude  and 
severity  of  threats.  The  FWS  has  determined  that 
Arizona  willow  does  not  warrant  listing  under  the 
ESA  and  has  placed  this  plant  in  category  3C.  The 
notice  of  the  withdrawal  of  the  proposed  listing 
rule  was  pubUshed  April  28,  1995  (USDI  1995,  60 
FR  20951).  This  is  the  first  instance  where  FWS  has 
withdrawn  a  proposed  rule  based  on  the  develop- 
ment of  a  conservation  agreement. 

Ultimately,  this  process  and  approach  for  the 
conservation  and  management  of  rare  species  will 
save  time  and  taxpayer  doUars  compared  to  listing 
under  the  ESA.  It  eliminates  the  need  for  listing, 
delisting,  critical  habitat  designation,  section  7 
consultation,  and  development  of  recovery  plans, 
while  still  providing  for  the  conservation  and 
long-term  protection  of  the  species. 

National  Support  for  the  Arizona 
Willow  Conservation 
Agreement  and  Strategy 
This  document  is  the  first  agreement  to  meet 
the  intent  and  to  implement  the  national  MOUs 
developed  in  1994.  It  has  received  support  from 
the  highest  department  and  agency  levels  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  such  that  a  media  event  was 
scheduled  for  a  signing  ceremony  that  was  held  in 
Phoenix,  Arizona,  on  May  19,  1995.  A  Declaration 
of  Support  was  signed  by  representatives  of  the 
Secretary  of  Interior  (representing  FWS  and  NFS) 
and  chief  of  the  Forest  Service  offices.  We  believe 
the  Arizona  Willow  Conservation  Agreement  and 
Strategy  represents  an  important  step,  not  only  in 
the  conservation  of  the  Arizona  willow,  but  as  a 


renewed  focus  and  commitment  to  the  ESA,  with- 
out further  eroding  the  integrity  of  this  landmark 
statute. 

Acknowledgments 

We  appreciate  the  contributions  and  dedica- 
tion of  the  many  individuals  involved  with  the 
conservation  of  Arizona  willow  and  the  develop- 
ment of  the  Arizona  Willow  Conservation  Agree- 
ment and  Strategy.  This  includes  many  agency 
and  non-agency  participants.  We  would  like  to 
give  special  thanks  to  the  Intermountain  Research 
Station,  Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and  Range  Experi- 
ment Station,  Brigham  Young  University,  Arizona 
Game  and  Fish  Department,  Utah  Division  of 
Wildlife  Resources,  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff, 
Robert  Dorn,  Carl-Eric  Granfelt,  George  Argus, 
and  the  professional  and  support  staffs  of  FS  and 
FWS.  During  the  development  of  this  document,  a 
tragic  accident  claimed  the  lives  of  two  of  our 
team  members,  Gary  L.  Davis  and  David  W. 
Payne.  The  Arizona  Willow  Conservation  Agree- 
ment and  Strategy  is  dedicated  to  their  memory. 

Literature  Cited 

Arizona  Willow  Interagency  Technical  Team.  1995. 
Arizona  willow  conservation  agreement  and 
strategy.  U.S.  Forest  Service,  Intermountain  Region, 
Ogden,  Utah;  U.S.  Forest  Service,  Southwest  Region, 
Albuquerque,  New  Mexico;  National  Park  Service, 
Rocky  Mountain  Region,  Denver,  Colorado;  U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service,  Mountain-Prairie  Region,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah;  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service, 
Southwest  Region,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico. 

Dorn,  R.D.  1975.  A  systematic  study  of  Salix  section 
Cordates  in  North  America.  Canadian  Journal  of 
Botany  53:1491-1522. 

Fletcher,  R.  1978.  Status  summary.  Unpublished  report. 
U.S.  Forest  Service,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  2  pp. 

Galeano-Popp,  R.G.  1988.  Salix  arizonica  Dorn  on  the 
Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests:  Inventory  and 
habitat  study.  Unpublished  report,  Apache-Sit- 
greaves National  Forests.  47  pp. 

Granfelt,  C.E.  1989a.  Arizona  willow  {Salix  arizonica 
Dorn)  populations  on  the  Fort  Apache  Indian  Res- 
ervation, Arizona.  White  Mountain  Apache  Game 
and  Fish  Department,  Whiteriver,  Arizona.  37  pp. 

Granfelt,  C.E.  1989b.  Arizona  willow  survey  of  the  Han- 
nagan  Meadow  area,  Apache-Sitgreaves  National 
Forests,  Arizona,  May-June-September  1989.  Un- 
published report  prepared  for  Apache-Sitgreaves 
National  Forests,  Springerville,  Arizona.  U  pp. 

Phillips,  B.C.,  N.  Brian,  J.  Mazzoni,  and  L.T.  Green  III. 
1982.  Status  report  for  Salix  arizonica  Dorn.  Unpub- 
lished report  prepared  for  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  12  pp. 


229 


U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 
1980.  Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and 
plants:  Review  of  plant  taxa  for  listing  as  endangered 
or  threatened  species.  Federal  Register  45  (242): 
82480-82569. 

U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 
1983.  Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and 
plants:  Supplement  to  review  of  plant  taxa  for  listing 
as  endangered  or  threatened  species.  Federal  Regis- 
ter 48  (229):53640-53670. 

U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 
1985.  Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and 
plants:  Review  of  plant  taxa  for  listing  as  endangered 
or  threatened  species.  Federal  Register  50  (188): 
39526-39584. 

U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 
1990.  Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and 
plants:  Review  of  plant  taxa  for  listing  as  endangered 
or  threatened  species.  Federal  Register  55  (35):6184- 
6229. 

U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 
1992.  Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and 
plants:  Proposed  endangered  status  for  the  plant 
Salix  arizonica  (Arizona  willow),  with  critical  habitat. 
Federal  Register  57  (225):54747-54766. 


U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service. 
1995.  Endangered  and  threatened  wildlife  and 
plants:  Withdrawal  of  proposed  rule  to  list  the  plant 
Salix  arizonica  (Arizona  willow)  as  endangered  with 
critical  habitat.  Federal  Register  60  (82):20951-20952. 

U.S.  National  Agencies.  1994a.  Memorandum  of  under- 
standing between  U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior, 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  U.S.  Department  of 
Commerce,  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation,  and 
U.S.  Department  of  Defense.  Signed  September  29, 
1994. 

U.S.  National  Agencies.  1994b.  Memorandum  of  under- 
standing between  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Forest  Service  and  the  U.S.  Department  of  the 
Interior  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Bureau  of  Land 
Management,  National  Park  Service,  and  U.S. 
Department  of  Commerce  National  Marine  Fisheries 
Service.  94-SMU-058. 


230 


The  Verde  Valley  Sonoran  Desertscrub: 
An  Ecosystem  at  Risk 

BARBARA  GOODRICH  PHILLIPS,^  DAVID  LUTZ,2 
RONALD  POPOWSKI, 2  and  HARLEY  SHAW^ 

■^Coconino,  Kaibab  and  Prescott  National  Forests,  2323  East  Greenlaw  Lane,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86004 
■^Coconino  National  Forest,  2323  East  Greenlaw  Lane,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86004 
3p.O.  Box  370,  Chino  Valley,  Arizona  86323 

Abstract:  Fragmentation  and  degradation  of  the  isolated  Sonoran  Desertscrub  ecosystem  in 
the  Verde  Valley  is  occurring  due  to  human  population  explosion  and  the  resultant  increased 
impacts  on  national  forest  lands.  In  1994  and  1995,  potential  habitat  for  PursJiia  subintegra 
(Kearney)  Henrickson  (Arizona  cliffrose)  and  four  other  rare  plants  was  surveyed.  Combined 
with  general  animal  surveys  and  an  elucidation  of  geology  and  soils,  the  results  indicate  the 
importance  of  expanding  the  existing  Verde  Valley  Botanical  Area  into  a  broader  ecosystem - 
based  unit. 


Introduction 

Purshia  subintegra  (Kearney)  Henrickson  (Ari- 
zona cliffrose)  was  listed  as  endangered  by  the 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  on  May  29,  1984 
(U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  1984).  Arizona 
cliffrose,  a  member  of  the  Rose  Family  (Rosaceae), 
is  a  rare  Arizona  edaphic  endemic,  restricted  to 
nutrient  deficient  calcareous  soils  (Anderson  1986, 
Anderson  1993).  It  is  known  from  four  disjunct 
populations  on  the  northern  edge  of  the  Sonoran 
Desert  (U.S.  Fish  and  WHdlife  Service  1994).  For  30 
years  the  species  was  only  known  from  the  type 
locality  near  Burro  Creek,  Mohave  County.  In  Sep- 
tember 1968,  a  second  population  was  discovered 
near  Bylas,  Graham  County  (Pinkava  et  al.  1970). 
In  1984  and  1985,  two  additional  population  areas 
were  discovered  near  Cottonwood,  Yavapai 
County,  and  near  Horseshoe  Lake,  Maricopa  and 
Yavapai  counties. 

The  recovery  plan  for  Purshia  subintegra  was 
recently  finalized  (U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
1994).  This  plan  listed  several  downlisting  criteria 
for  the  species.  (1)  Scientific  data  indicate  that  each 
of  the  recovery  units  sustains  a  population  that  is 
viable  or  that  is  on  a  significant  upward  trend 
towards  viability  that  is  maintained  for  at  least  15 
years.  (2)  Unfragmented  and  high-quality  habitat 
sufficient  to  ensure  long-term  survival  and  recov- 
ery is  protected  within  each  recovery  unit.  (3)  Reg- 
ulatory mechanisms  or  written  land  management 
commitments  that  provide  for  adequate  long-term 
protection  of  Arizona  cliffrose  and  its  habitat  are 
being  implemented  and  wiU  continue  to  be  im- 
plemented after  downlisting.  (4)  The  Service 
determines  that  Arizona  cliffrose  is  no  longer  an 
endangered  species,  as  defined  by  the  Endangered 
Species  Act. 


The  Arizona  Cliffrose  Population 
of  the  Verde  Valley 
The  Verde  Valley  Cottonwood  population 
(and  the  other  populations  of  Arizona  cUffrose)  are 
in  the  Larrea  tridentata-Canotia  holacantha  (creosote 
bush-crucifixion  thorn)  association  of  the  Arizona 
Upland  Subdivision  of  the  Sonoran  Desertscrub 
(Brown  1982),  because  crucifixion  thorn  is  a  domi- 
nant at  each  site.  The  disjunct  ranges  of  several 
plant  species  parallel  the  disjunct  pattern  of 
Arizona  cliffrose  (Anderson  1986)  and  four  rare 
Arizona  endemic  plants  occur  in  the  same  habitat 
as  Arizona  cliffrose  (U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service 
1994). 

The  Verde  Valley  encompasses  the  middle 
part  of  the  Verde  River  Basin.  It  is  bounded  by  the 
MogoUon  Rim  on  the  northeast  and  the  Black  Hills 
on  the  southwest  and  is  approximately  32  km  at  its 
widest.  During  the  Tertiary  a  series  of  lava  dams 
blocked  the  natural  river  drainage  and  a  series  of 
lakes  and  playas  formed  resulting  in  deposits 
known  as  the  Verde  Formation,  which  varies  in 
thickness  from  a  few  meters  to  over  915  m. 

At  the  upper  end  of  the  Verde  Basin,  the 
Verde  Formation  is  a  Pliocene  limestone  with 
interbedded  clastic  and  tuffaceous  sediments  (Na- 
tions et  al,  1981).  The  greatest  densities  of  Purshia 
subintegra  are  found  on  open  flat  ridgetops  or 
other  level  areas  and  along  shallow,  first-order 
drainages.  It  occurs  on  all  but  the  steepest  slopes. 
It  is  found  rooted  in  either  white  calcareous  soils 
derived  from  a  limestone  member  of  the  Verde 
Formation,  red  soils  from  a  calcareous  sandy 
member  of  the  Verde  Formation,  or  a  mixture  of 
both  (Schaak  and  Morefield  1985,  Denham  and 
Fobes  1992).  P.  subintegra  was  not  found  on  the 
Verde  Formation  at  the  southern  end  of  the  basin 


231 


(Anderson  1986),  which  is  stratigraphically  lower 
and  contains  Miocene  evaporite  deposits  (Nations 
et  al.  1981). 

The  Cottonwood  Arizona  cliffrose  population 
is  the  largest,  healthiest  population,  and  it  occurs 
at  the  highest  elevation.  The  Coconino  Forest  Plan 
(U.S.  Forest  Service  1987)  designated  part  of  this 
population  as  the  472  ha  Verde  Valley  Botanical 
Area.  This  was  done  for  the  protection  of  the 
unique  plant  community,  including  Arizona  cliff- 
rose.  This  plan  states  (p.  194)  that  the  management 
emphasis  of  the  botanical  area  is  to: 

maintain,  as  nearly  as  possible,  existing  condi- 
tions and  natural  processes  for  public  enjoyment, 
demonstration,  and  study.  Interpretive  and 
educational  demonstration  opportunities  are 
emphasized  and  enhanced  through  selective 
facility  development.  Natural  events  are  not 
rehabilitated.  Off-road  driving  is  prohibited. 

The  Human  Population  of  the 
Verde  Valley 

The  earliest  evidence  for  humans  in  the  Verde 
Valley  is  during  the  Archaic  period  (8000  B.C.-A. 
D.  1)  (Beard  1990).  Population  expansion  occurred 
between  A.  D.  1125  and  1300  and  great  pueblos 
were  eventually  constructed:  Montezuma  Castle 
near  present-day  Camp  Verde,  Tuzigoot  near 
present-day  Cottonwood,  and  others.  Between  A. 
D.  1300  and  1400  consolidation  of  the  pueblos  took 
place  into  approximately  40  major  sites  through- 
out the  valley,  surrounded  by  smaller  communi- 
ties and  agricultural  areas.  These  dwellings  were 
abandoned  by  approximately  A.  D.  1425  and  the 
Northeastern  Yavapai,  who  were  nomadic  hunter - 
gatherers,  came  to  occupy  the  Verde  Valley.  The 
first  Anglo  settlement  in  the  Middle  Verde  Valley 
was  established  in  1865.  Construction  of  check 
dams  and  irrigation  ditches,  the  removal  of 
beaver,  and  an  increased  flow  of  water  because  of 
decreased  vegetation  due  to  livestock  impacts  on 
uplands  transformed  the  Verde  River  from  a  wide, 
slow-moving  waterway  with  plentiful  marshes 
and  ponds  to  a  narrower  fast-flowing  stream. 

The  mining  era,  a  period  of  approximately  70 
years,  began  in  the  1870s  in  the  Black  Hills  (Twen- 
ter  and  Metzger  1963).  Advances  in  technology 
made  mining  more  economically  feasible  over 
time;  however,  impacts  to  the  Verde  Valley  eco- 
system greatly  increased.  Woodcutting  for  mining 
timbers,  building  materials,  and  fuelwood  de- 
nuded hillsides  of  substantial  trees  in  the  vicinity 
of  Jerome,  Clarkdale,  and  Cottonwood.  Smelters  at 


Clarkdale  and  Clemenceau  (present-day  Cotton- 
wood) released  toxic  fumes  into  the  Verde  Valley 
that  were  responsible  for  serious  impacts  to 
agricultural  and  native  vegetation  (Beard  1990). 

The  human  population  of  the  Verde  Valley 
continues  to  grow  (Table  1),  resulting  in  increased 
impacts  to  the  Verde  Valley  and  the  unique  Verde 
Formation  ecosystem.  Habitat  loss  due  to  urbani- 
zation, road  construction  and  realignments,  recrea- 
tional activities  such  as  off-road  vehicle  use,  horse- 
back riding,  hiking  and  running,  cattle  grazing, 
control  of  insect  pests,  and  limitation  in  pollinators 
are  some  of  the  management  issues  and  concerns 
for  the  Cottonwood  population  (U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service  1994).  Surveys  were  initiated  by 
the  Coconino  and  Prescott  national  forests  to  gain 
a  more  comprehensive  understanding  of  the 
distribution  of  Purshia  subintegra  and  other  rare 
plant  and  animal  species  in  the  Verde  Valley  in 
order  to  be  able  to  better  address  current  impacts, 
potential  land  exchange  requests,  and  future 
management  concerns. 

Methods 

Surveys  were  conducted  by  Lutz  (1994a,b, 
1995)  and  Popowski  (1994)  from  May  through 
September  1994  and  April  1995  for  Purshia 
subintegra,  Eriogonum  ericifolium  Torr.  &  Gray  var. 
ericifolium  (Heather-leaf  wild  buckwheat),  Erio- 
gonum ripleyi  J.T.  Howell  (Ripley's  wild  buck- 
wheat), Eriogonum  sp.  (undetermined  species)  and 
Salvia  dorrii  (Kellogg)  Abrahams  ssp.  mearnsii 
(Britton)  L.  Benson  (Verde  Valley  sage  or  Mearns 
sage  )  in  areas  of  potential  habitat  for  Arizona 
cliffrose.  Potential  habitat  for  Arizona  cliffrose  can 
also  support  the  occurrence  of  these  other  four 
species  of  interest.  Additional  surveys  conducted 
by  contractors  (Baker  and  Wright  1995)  and  other 
Forest  Service  personnel  (Hanneman  1995)  added 
to  our  knowledge  of  the  distribution  of  these  taxa. 

Table  1.  Historical  and  projected  population  of  the 
Verde  River  Basin  (1963-2040).  Data  for  1963  from 
Twenter  and  Metzger  (1963).  Data  for  1990,  2000,  and 
2040  from  Arizona  Department  of  Water  Resources 
(1995). 


1963 

1990 

2000 

2040 

Verde  River  Basin 

102,740 

125,141 

234,433 

Camp  Verde 

1500 

6243 

8415 

18,579 

Clarkdale 

1000 

2144 

2812 

5940 

Comville 

2089 

2924 

6834 

Cottonwood 

3000 

7037 

9576 

21,461 

Lake  Montezuma 

1841 

2342 

4688 

232 


Maps  from  the  Forest  Service  Terrestrial  Eco- 
system Survey  (TES)  (U.S.  Forest  Service,  n.d.)  and 
Surficial  Geology  of  the  Northern  Verde  Valley, 
Yavapai  County,  Arizona  (House  and  Pearthree 
1993)  were  utilized  to  locate  potential  search  areas. 
First  the  TES  maps  were  placed  over  maps  show- 
ing the  current  population  of  Piirshia  siibintegra. 
Arizona  cliffrose  occurs  primarily  on  two  soil 
types  that  are  characterized  by  Tertiary  lakebed 
deposits  of  calcium  carbonate,  with  one  steeper 
than  the  other.  Plants  also  grow  in  a  small  area 
mapped  as  a  different  soil  type;  however,  this  is  a 
low  drainage  area  and  the  Arizona  cliffrose  occurs 
primarily  on  drainage  cuts  with  limestone  ledges 
in  this  mapping  unit. 

Aerial  photographs  were  examined  prior  to 
going  in  the  field  to  narrow  the  search  areas. 
Transects  approximately  30  m  apart  were  walked. 
Binoculars  were  used  to  observe  the  vegetation 
from  a  distance  in  some  areas,  then  plants  were 
checked  at  closer  range  if  warranted.  Wildlife 
records  were  made  from  ocular  sightings  and  sign 
(such  as  tracks,  droppings,  digging,  burrowing, 
stick  nests,  feathers,  pellets,  and  skulls). 

Forest  Service  geologists  and  soil  scientists 
added  some  interpretations  to  the  field  observa- 
tions of  the  geology  and  soils  made  on  May  18  and 
September  28, 1994  (Mathews  1995). 

Results 

Arizona  cliffrose  was  not  located  beyond  the 
limits  of  the  population  known  previously.  How- 
ever, many  new  locations  of  the  other  four  species 
of  interest  were  discovered  and  mapped  (Figure 
1).  In  addition,  clones  of  Agave  delamateri  Hodgson 
&  Slauson  (Tonto  Basin  agave)  (W.  Hodgson,  per- 
sonal communication)  were  discovered  by  Baker 
and  Wright  (1995)  in  the  vicinity  of  Montezuma 
Castle  National  Monument  at  the  southeastern 
end  of  the  Verde  Valley. 

Refinement  was  made  of  the  characterization 
of  the  soils  where  Purshia  siibintegra  grows  in  the 
Verde  Valley  (Lutz  1995,  Mathews  1995).  Purshia 
subintegra  appears  to  grow  at  the  northern  end  of 
the  Verde  Formation  where  there  is  a  mix  of  red 
clastic  and  carbonate  sediments.  Based  on  their 
composition,  together  with  the  geographic  setting, 
most  of  the  elastics  were  probably  derived  from 
the  redbeds  of  the  Schnebly  Hill  Formation,  trans- 
ported fluvially  into  the  lowlands  of  the  Verde 
Valley,  and  eventually  deposited  in  thin  layers  in  a 
lacustrine  environment.  In  much  of  the  area  where 
Arizona  cliffrose  occurs,  the  carbonate  and  clastic 


components  of  the  parent  material  have  been 
somewhat  reworked  and  mixed  in  the  soil.  The 
carbonate  component  would  tend  to  create  an 
alkaline  environment,  while  the  elastics  would 
provide  for  better  drainage,  as  weU  as  contributing 
trace  elements  such  as  iron  and  manganese 
(Mathews  1995).  Arizona  cliffrose  seems  to  prefer 
basins  and  other  protected  areas  with  a  dominant 
south,  southwest,  or  west  aspect  in  this  highest 
elevation  population  area.  The  plants  generally 
(with  exceptions)  occur  at  elevations  below  1128 
m.  Any  occurrences  at  higher  elevations  would 
probably  be  as  isolated  patches  in  exceptionally 
protected  areas  (Mathews  1995). 

Eriogonum  ericifolium  var.  ericifolium,  Eriogo- 
num  ripleyi  and  Salvia  dorrii  ssp.  mearnsii  prefer  a 
very  white  carbonate  soil  with  sparse  vegetation 
(Lutz  1995).  In  the  Middle  Verde  area,  Lutz  noted 
a  preference  by  these  plants  for  a  particular  geo- 
logic layer,  although  the  plants  are  not  limited  to 
this  layer.  Meams  sage  has  the  greatest  range  and 
tolerance  for  habitat  diversity  of  these  three  spe- 
cies, growing  also  on  red  Supai  Sandstone  soils  in 
areas  with  denser  shrub  cover.  We  hypothesized 
that  this  very  white  carbonate  layer  might  be  the 
diatomite  layer  described  by  Nations  et  al.  (1981) 
as  occurring  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Middle  Verde 
Road,  so  we  collected  soils  for  analysis,  which  has 
not  been  completed  to  date. 

Mammal  species  typical  of  this  desert  environ- 
ment were  observed  by  sightings  or  sign:  Canis 
latrans  mearnsi  (coyote),  Urocyon  cinereoargenteus 
scottii  (gray  fox),  Lepus  californicus  deserticola 
(black-tailed  jack  rabbit),  Sylvilagus  audubonii 
arizonae  (desert  cottontail),  Eutamias  dorsalis  (cliff 
chipmunk),  Citellus  variegatus  (rock  squirrel), 
Antilocarpa  americana  (antelope),  Neotoma  spp. 
(woodrats),  several  species  of  Heteromyidae  and 
Muridae,  and  many  species  of  birds  (Popowski 
1994). 

Discussion 

The  recent  surveys  in  the  Verde  Valley  enable 
us  to  have  a  more  complete  understanding  of  the 
distribution  and  range  of  the  endangered  listed 
Purshia  subintegra  and  several  Forest  Service  sen- 
sitive plants  of  the  Verde  Valley  Sonoran  Desert- 
scrub.  In  addition,  the  geology,  soils,  and  animal 
components  of  this  unusual  ecosystem  have  been 
correlated  with  the  plants'  distributions. 

Synthesis  of  this  information  is  starting  to 
reveal  new  ideas  regarding  this  ecosystem.  The 
carbonate/clastic  composition  of  the  sediments 


233 


Figure  1.  Sensitive  plants  of  the  Verde  Valley,  Arizona. 


234 


where  Arizona  cliffrose  grows,  along  with  the 
microclimate  resulting  from  the  geomorphological 
characteristics  of  the  area,  may  both  be  significant 
factors  (Mathews  1995).  If  so,  much  of  the  south- 
em  part  of  the  Verde  Valley,  which  is  underlain  by 
evaporite  deposits,  as  well  as  the  broad  tablelands 
and  rolling  hills  that  are  present  throughout  the 
Verde  Valley  wherever  the  lacustrine  deposits 
have  not  been  highly  eroded  or  dissected  by  drain- 
ages, would  not  be  suitable  habitat  for  Arizona 
cliffrose.  Areas  underlain  by  more  massive 
limestone  deposits,  which  formed  in  the  deepest 
parts  of  the  lake,  would  also  be  excluded  if  this  is 
true.  However,  the  southeastern  part  of  the  Verde 
Valley  that  contains  the  other  Forest  Service 
sensitive  species  is  an  integral  part  of  the  Verde 
Valley  Sonoran  Desertscrub  ecosystem. 

Using  the  habitat  criteria  above,  Purshia 
subintegra  should  be  growing  further  north  on  the 
east  side  of  the  Verde  River  than  currently  known. 
Historically,  emissions  from  the  smelters  in  the 
vicinity  of  Cottonwood  were  credited  with  con- 
siderable destruction  of  vegetation  within  the 
Verde  Valley  (Beard  1990).  Although  the  map 
(Figure  24  in  Beard  1990)  has  question  marks  for 
the  extent  of  the  smoke  damage  east  of  the  Verde 
River  near  Cottonwood,  these  smelter  emissions 
could  have  affected  Arizona  cliffrose  distribution 
by  killing  adult  plants.  Heavy  metals  deposited  in 
the  soils  could  also  be  limiting  seedling  establish- 
ment (Mathews  1995). 

As  shown  in  Table  1,  the  human  population  of 
the  Verde  Valley  continues  to  grow.  Cottonwood 
and  Camp  Verde,  which  were  estimated  at  3000 
and  1500  inhabitants  in  1963  (Twenter  and  Metz- 
ger  1963),  had  7037  and  6243  inhabitants  in  the 
1990  census  and  are  projected  to  have  9576  and 
8415,  respectively,  by  the  year  2000  (Arizona  De- 
partment of  Water  Resources  1995).  This  increase 
in  people  in  the  Verde  Valley  is  resulting  in 
increased  pressure  on  the  Verde  Valley  Sonoran 
Desertscrub  ecosystem  of  the  public,  as  well  as 
private,  lands. 

The  Ehrlich-Holdren  Three  Factor  Model 
(Impact  =  Population  x  Affluence  x  Technology,  or 
I  =  P  X  A  X  T)  can  be  used  to  assess  the  environ- 
mental impact  of  a  population  in  a  given  area 
(Miller  1994).  As  any  of  these  factors  increases,  the 
impact  increases.  If  any  factor  is  zero,  there  is  no 
impact.  The  number  of  people  in  the  Verde  Valley 
today  has  a  greater  impact  than  the  same  number 
during  the  Archaic  Period  or  in  the  early  1900s, 
because  consumption  per  capita  or  affluence  (A)  is 


greater  today  and  the  environmental  destructive - 
ness  of  the  technologies  used  to  provide  and  use 
resources  (T)  is  greater. 

The  human  population  of  the  Verde  Valley 
will  probably  continue  to  increase  as  projected. 
However,  it  is  possible  to  ameliorate  the  impacts 
of  this  population  growth  through  foresight  and 
progressive  planning  to  lessen  the  environmental 
destructiveness  of  this  increase.  The  Forest  Service 
is  working  with  state  and  local  planners  to  devel- 
op more  comprehensive  and  ecosystem-based 
plans  for  the  Verde  Valley.  Part  of  this  planning 
effort  will  be  directed  toward  making  the  Verde 
Valley  Botanical  Area  more  encompassing  of  the 
true  distribution  of  the  Sonoran  Desertscrub 
community  and  establishing  management  to  les- 
sen the  human  impacts  on  this  fragile  ecosystem. 

Literature  Cited 

Anderson,  J.L.  1986.  Biogeographical  analysis  of  Cowania 
subintegra  Kearney  (Rosaceae),  an  Arizona  Sonoran 
Desert  endemic.  Masters  thesis.  Arizona  State  Uni- 
versity, Tempe,  Arizona.  112  pp. 

Anderson,  J.L.  1993.  A  synthetic  analysis  of  a  rare 
Arizona  species,  Piirshia  subintegra  (Rosaceae).  In 
Sivinski,  R.  and  K.  Lightfoot,  editors.  Proceedings  of 
the  Southwestern  Rare  and  Endangered  Plant 
Conference,  pp.  205-220.  New  Mexico  Forestry  and 
Resources  Conservation  Division,  Miscellaneous 
Publication  Number  2,  Sante  Fe,  New  Mexico. 

Arizona  Department  of  Water  Resources.  1995.  Popu- 
lation projections  (1990-2040)  for  use  in  statewide 
water  planning  (draft).  Verde  Cooperative  River 
Basin  Study.  Statistical  Information  Packet  No.  1. 

Baker,  M.  and  T.  Wright.  1995.  Survey  for  endangered  or 
candidate  plant  taxa  of  the  proposed  National  Forest 
land  exchanges  within  the  Verde  Valley,  Yavapai 
County,  Arizona.  Prepared  for  the  USDA  Forest 
Service,  Coconino  National  Forest.  20  pp. 

Beard,  CD.  1990.  Smoke  men  on  the  hill:  The  environ- 
mental effects  of  smelter  pollution  in  the  Verde 
Valley,  Arizona,  1919-1935.  Masters  thesis.  Northem 
Arizona  University,  Flagstaff.  152  pp. 

Brown,  D.E.,  editor.  1982.  Biotic  communities  of  the 
American  Southwest — United  States  and  Mexico. 
Desert  Plants  4:1-342. 

Denham,  B.  and  N.  Fobes.  1992.  Basic  information  of  the 
Verde  Valley  population  of  Purshia  subintegra.  In 
Denham,  B.  Subintegration:  An  integration  of 
subintegra  information.  Unpublished  report  ,  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Arizona  Ecological 
Services  Office,  Phoenix.  44  pp. 

Hanneman,  M.  1995.  White  Hills  plant  surveys.  Walker 
Basin  Allotment  April  4-May  19,  1994.  USDA  Forest 
Service,  Coconino  National  Forest.  4  pp. 


235 


House,  P.K.  and  P.A.  Pearthree.  1993.  Surficial  geology 
of  the  northern  Verde  Valley,  Yavapai  County, 
Arizona.  Clarkdale,  Page  Springs,  Cottonwood,  and 
Cornville  Quadrangles.  Arizona  Geological  Survey 
Open-File  Report  93-16.  (Preliminary  draft).  19  pp. 

Lutz,  D.  1994a.  Notes  on  a  plant  survey  for  a  land 
exchange  in  the  Verde  Valley  May  20-July  7,  1994. 
USDA  Forest  Service,  Coconino  National  Forest.  4 
pp. 

Lutz,  D.  1994b.  Survey  for  Purshia  suhintegra  and  four 
other  species  July  22-September  26,  1994.  Survey 
Report.  USDA  Forest  Service,  Coconino  National 
Forest.  18  pp. 

Lutz,  D.  1995.  A  survey  for  sensitive  plants  in  the  Verde 
Valley  April  3-April  14,  1995.  USDA  Forest  Service, 
Coconino  National  Forest.  13  pp. 

Mathews,  E.  1995.  Geologic  characteristics  of  habitat  for 
the  listed  endangered  Purshia  subintegra  and  other 
sensitive  plants  of  the  Verde  Valley.  U.S.  Forest  Ser- 
vice, Southwestern  Regional  Office,  Albuquerque, 
New  Mexico.  5  pp. 

Miller,  G.T.,  Jr.  1994.  Living  in  the  Environment.  Wads- 
worth  Publishing  Company,  Belmont,  California.  701 
pp.  +  appendices. 

Nations,  J.D.,  R.H.  Hevly,  D.W.  Blinn,  and  J.J.  Landye. 
1981.  Paleontology,  paleoecology,  and  depositional 
history  of  the  Miocene-Pliocene  Verde  Formation, 
Yavapai  County,  Arizona.  Arizona  Geological 
Society  Digest  13:133-149. 


Pinkava,  D.J.,  E.  Lehto,  and  D.  Keil.  1970.  Plants  new  to 
Arizona  flora  III  and  new  distribution  records  of 
noteworthy  species.  Journal  of  the  Arizona  Academy 
of  Science  6:134. 

Popowski,  R.  1994.  Summary  of  Verde  Valley  sensitive 
plants  search  area  July  27-September  7, 1994.  USDA 
Forest  Service,  Coconino  National  Forest.  12  pp. 

Schaak,  C.G.  and  J.D.  Morefield.  1985.  Field  survey  for 
Coiuania  subintegra  Kearney,  Coconino  National  For- 
est. Prepared  for  Coconino  National  Forest,  Flagstaff, 
Arizona.  23  pp. 

Twenter,  F.R.  and  D.G.  Metzger.  1963.  Geology  and 
ground  water  in  Verde  Valley — the  Mogollon  Rim 
Region,  Arizona.  Geological  Survey  Bulletin  1177. 
U.S.  Government  Printing  Office,  Washington,  DC. 
132  pp. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1984.  Final  rule  to  deter- 
mine Cowania  subintegra  (Arizona  cliffrose)  to  be  an 
endangered  species.  Federal  Register  49(104):22326- 
22329. 

U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1994.  Arizona  Cliffrose 
{Purshia  subintegra)  recovery  plan.  U.S.  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service,  Arizona  Ecological  Services  State 
Office,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  90  pp.  +  appendix. 

U.S.  Forest  Service.  1987.  Coconino  National  Forest 
Land  and  Resource  Management  Plan.  Coconino 
National  Forest,  Flagstaff,  Arizona.  270  pp. 

U.S.  Forest  Service,  n.d.  Terrestrial  Ecosystem  Survey 
preliminary  maps.  U.S.  Forest  Service,  Southwestern 
Regional  Office,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico. 


236 


Recommendations  for  the  Preservation  of  Rare  Plants  and  Unique  Habitats 
Within  the  Chino  Valley  Ranger  District,  Central  Arizona 

MARC  A.  BAKER 

Southwest  Botanical  Research,  1217  Granite  Creek  Lane,  Chino  Valley,  AZ  86323 

Abstract:  Five  Forest  Service  sensitive  plant  taxa  have  been  documented  over  3  years  of  bo- 
tanical surveys  within  Yavapai  and  Coconino  counties,  central  Arizona,  in  the  Chino  Valley 
Ranger  District.  These  are  Erigeron  saxatilis,  Eriogonum  ripleyi,  Hedeoma  diffusiim,  Salvia  dorrii 
ssp.  mearnsii,  and  Talinum  validiilum .  Another  sensitive  species,  Ivesia  multifoliolata,  occurs 
within  a  mile  of  the  Ranger  District  boundary.  Populations  of  several  additional  rarely 
collected  plant  taxa  were  also  recorded.  Unique  habitats  occurring  within  the  Ranger  District 
included  narrow  canyons  dominated  by  large  ferns,  pygmy  woodlands  of  Cupressus  arizoni- 
ciis,  and  groves  of  Quercus  gambelii  x  Q.  tiirbinella.  The  greatest  impact  on  these  and  other 
habitats  appeared  to  be  accelerated  pluvial  runoff  owing  to  more  than  a  century  of  heavy 
livestock  grazing.  General  management  for  rare  plant  species  should  begin  with  the  restora- 
tion of  upland  grass  and  forb  populations. 


Introduction 

Botanical  field  surveys  have  been  conducted 
for  the  past  3  years  within  the  Chino  Valley 
Ranger  District  (CVRD)  of  the  Prescott  National 
Forest,  Arizona  (Baker  and  Wright  1993,  1994, 
1995).  Their  focus  has  been  the  documentation  of 
rare  plant  populations,  unique  habitats,  and  evi- 
dence of  threats  to  the  stability  of  these  popula- 
tions and  habitats. 

Assuming  that  decreases  in  overall  diversity 
of  both  species  and  habitats  correlate  with  the 
absence  of  populations  of  sensitive  species  (Hol- 
singer  and  Gottlieb  1991,  West  1993,  Westman 
1990),  it  is  argued  that  the  least  expensive  and 
most  effective  method  for  fighting  extinction  is 
through  multispecies  management,  focusing  on 
the  preservation  of  habitat  types  (Scott  et  al.  1987). 

Aerial  photographs  were  first  scrutinized  for 
potentially  unusual  sites,  and  the  surveys  then 
proceeded  according  to  uniqueness  of  habitat 
types.  Fertile  specimens  were  collected  of  each 
species  for  the  preparation  of  at  least  one  herbar- 
ium sheet.  For  unusual  populations,  at  least  one 
duplicate  was  collected  as  a  gift  for  determination 
by  the  taxonomic  specialist.  Locality  information 
was  recorded  in  a  redundant  fashion  using  town- 
ship and  range  as  well  as  the  UTM  system.  Impor- 
tant aspects  of  the  plant  that  would  not  be  pre- 
served on  a  herbarium  sheet  were  also  recorded, 
and  photographs  were  often  taken  as  well.  Data 
were  also  recorded  for  unique  habitats,  unusually 
healthy  habitats,  unusually  unhealthy  habitats, 
and  factors  that  may  have  been  affecting  the  health 
of  these  habitats. 


Sensitive  Taxa  and  Unique  Habitats 

Forest  Service  sensitive  taxa  documented  dur- 
ing our  surveys  include  Erigeron  saxatilis  Nesom 
(cliff  fleabane),  Eriogonum  ripleyiJ.T.  Howell  (Rip- 
ley wild-buckwheat),  Hedeoma  diffusum  Greene 
(Flagstaff  pennyroyal),  Ivesia  multifoliolata  =  Poten- 
tilla  multifoliolata) (Torvey)  Keck  (Arizona  cinque- 
foil).  Salvia  dorrii  (Kellogg)  Abrahams  ssp.  meamsii 
(Britton)  L.  Benson  (Mearns  sage),  and  Talinum 
valididum  Greene  (Tusayan  flame-flower).  Approx- 
imately five  to  ten  thousand  individuals  of  Eriger- 
on saxatilis  occurred  within  Tule  Canyon  of  the 
Sycamore  Canyon  Wilderness  Area.  A  single 
dense  population  of  Eriogonum  ripleyi  occurred 
near  the  Verde  River  at  the  site  of  the  dormant 
United  States  Copper  Mine  northwest  of  Perkins - 
ville.  Individuals  were  especially  abundant  along 
roads  and  on  mine  tailings.  Populations  of 
Hedeoma  diffusum  occurred  most  often  on  shaded 
slopes  in  shallow  soil  derived  from  Coconino 
Sandstone  or  along  cracks  in  the  bedrock.  They 
occurred  less  frequently  on  outcroppings  of  Kai- 
bab  Limestone.  Individuals  of  Ivesia  multifoliolata 
occurred  sporadically  along  the  bottom  of  Tule 
Canyon,  generally  along  crevices  in  sandstone  and 
among  river  cobbles.  Larger  populations  were 
associated  with  basalt  cobbles  in  shallow  washes 
feeding  the  canyons.  Several  dense  populations  of 
Salvia  dorrii  ssp.  meamsii  occurred  on  pink  soil 
derived  largely  from  a  combination  of  sandstone 
and  limestone  within  and  near  the  United  States 
Mine  site.  The  largest  population,  north  of  the 
Gray  Hills,  contained  roughly  50,000  individuals. 
Populations  of  Talinum  validulum  were  occasional 


237 


on  limestone  and  basalt  soils  of  recent  origin, 
especially  near  the  edges  of  mesas.  Roughly  80,000 
individuals  occurred  within  the  Juniper  Mesa 
Wilderness  Area,  ca.  700  individuals  within  the 
Woodchute  Wilderness  Area,  and  at  least  100,000 
near  the  western  boundary  of  Prescott  National 
Forest,  west  of  Camp  Wood. 

A  unique  community  of  a  hybrid  oak  occurred 
at  ca.  1830  m  elevation  on  the  northeast  slopes  of 
Woodchute  Mountain,  just  northwest  of  Jerome. 
The  oak  appears  to  be  intermediate  between  Quer- 
cus  gambelii  Nutt.  (Gambel  oak)  and  Q .  turbinella 
Greene  (scrub  oak).  These  small  groves  (ca.  100  m 
wide)  of  monopodial  trees  had  arching  trunks  that 
formed  a  closed  canopy  about  4  m  tall.  The  under - 
story  was  open  and  diversity  was  low. 

Within  the  Sycamore  Canyon  Wilderness  Area 
above  Cedar  Creek,  at  an  elevation  of  ca.  1820  m, 
the  shallow  soils  of  Coconino  Sandstone  ridgelines 
supported  an  unusual  plant  association  of  pygmy 
Cupressus  arizonica  Greene  (Arizona  Cypress)  and 
Arctostaphylos  pungens  Kunth  (point-leaf  manzani- 
ta).  The  individuals  of  Arizona  cypress  exhibited 
bizarre  forms  owing  to  their  twisted  trunks  and 
patchy  compact  foliage. 

Narrow  north-running  sandstone  canyons 
within  Tule  Canyon  provided  moist  retreats  for 
the  large-leaved  ferns  Cystopteris  reevesiana  Lel- 
linger,  Dryopteris  filix-mas  (L.)  Schott,  and  Poly- 
stichum  lonchitis  (L.)  Roth,  and  mesic  herbs  of 
usually  higher  elevations,  such  as  Osmorhiza 
depauperata  Phil.,  Maianthemum  racemosum  (L.) 
Link,  Senecio  wootonii  Greene,  and  Valeriana 
arizonica  A.  Gray.  The  rarely  collected  fern,  Phaner- 
ophlebia  auriculata  Underwood,  occurred  in  one  of 
these  canyons. 

Conditions  of  the  Range  and 
Suggested  Management 

The  CVRD  has  been  overgrazed  for  more  than 
a  century,  as  is  characteristic  of  most  western 
rangeland  (Ellison  1960).  Most  ranchers,  U.S.  For- 
est Service  personnel,  biologists,  and  other  mem- 
bers of  the  community  interviewed  have  agreed 
that  past  use  has  led  to  a  decrease  in  overall 
species  diversity.  Although  change,  at  least  in  part, 
is  often  attributed  to  recent  drying  trends  (Bahre 
1991,  Van  Devender  1990),  there  is  considerable 
evidence  within  the  CVRD  that  most,  if  not  all,  of 
the  loss  in  both  biomass  and  species  diversity 
within  the  last  century  is  attributable  to  land  use. 

Evidence  of  overuse  by  browsers  and /or  graz- 
ers occurred  throughout  the  survey  areas.  Palata- 
ble shrubs,  such  as  Purshia  stansburiana  (Torrey) 


Henrickson  (cliff-rose),  were  often  clipped  to  near 
ground  level.  In  many  areas  grass  density  was 
near  zero  and  grasses  occurred  only  as  refugees 
protected  by  boulders,  cactus,  or  inaccessible 
benches.  Fence  lines  often  manifested  potential  for 
habitat  improvement,  where  vegetation  cover  was 
dramatically  different  from  one  side  of  the  fence  to 
the  other.  In  several  areas  deep  channel  erosion 
and  a  paucity  of  perennial  riparian  vegetation 
indicated  severe  flooding.  Very  little  "A"  soil  hori- 
zon remained  within  the  CVRD  and,  in  many 
areas,  only  the  "C"  horizon  remained  except 
where  the  soil  was  protected  by  woody  perennials. 

The  volume  of  water  runoff  is  inversely  corre- 
lated with  upland  plant  densities,  especially  those 
of  fibrous-rooted  and  generally  palatable  perennial 
grasses.  The  damage  to  soil  and  vegetation  in 
these  areas  should  not  be  treated  too  lightly  since 
areas  similar  in  elevation,  topography,  latitude, 
and  amount  and  distribution  of  precipitation  in 
other  parts  of  the  world  have  been  desertified  be- 
yond recovery  (Bryson  and  Baerreis  1967,  Wheeler 
1960). 

Generalizations  concerning  range  potential 
and  the  possible  methods  necessary  to  achieve  a 
desired  potential  can  be  unproductive  when 
applied  to  a  range  composed  of  diverse  habitats. 
Sites  varied  greatly  with  respect  to  soil  compo- 
sition, soil  depth,  topography,  elevation,  manage- 
ment history,  and  species  composition.  In  almost 
all  communities  within  the  CVRD,  proper  man- 
agement could  dramatically  increase  biomass  and 
species  diversity,  and  reduce  the  density  of  plants 
poisonous  to  livestock  (James  et  al.  1992). 

McNaughton  et  al.  (1982)  suggest  that  three 
fundamental  processes  affect  the  structure  of 
grasslands:  carbon  assimilation  and  allocation, 
nitrogen  assimilation  and  allocation,  and  rainfall- 
evapotranspiration.  In  terms  of  management, 
these  processes  may  best  be  approached  in  terms 
of  shade,  available  soil  nitrogen,  and  soil  moisture. 
Dodd  and  Lauenroth  (1979)  reported  that  through 
application  of  supplemental  water  and  nitrogen  to 
blue  grama  grassland,  the  aboveground  annual 
net  primary  production  was  increased  by  factors 
of  1.3  to  2.7  with  nitrogen  and  from  2.0  to  4.6  with 
water,  while  the  addition  of  both  water  and  nitro- 
gen increased  productivity  by  factors  between  5.0 
and  13.0. 

It  is  usually  cost  effective  in  the  long  term  to 
experiment  with  several  management  tactics.  For 

example,  short-duration  grazing  following  the 
introduction  of  supplemental  feed  might  create 
soil  conditions  conducive  to  the  re-establishment 


238 


of  native  grasses  (see  Goodloe  1969,  Savory  1978). 
Savory's  design  includes  the  construction  of  sev- 
eral pastures  so  that  some  are  allowed  to  rest.  This 
would  be  especially  valuable  with  respect  to  the 
survey  area,  considering  the  high  degree  of  site 
variation  and  hence  the  differing  periods  of  rest 
needed  to  maintain  a  sustained  yield.  Pastures 
would  be  best  defined  along  natural  boundaries, 
such  as  mesa  edges  and  drainages,  although  local 
ranchers  claim  they  can  avoid  additional  fencing 
by  proper  herding  techniques.  Most  problems 
with  short-duration  grazing  seem  to  come  from 
extending  the  grazing  duration  for  too  long  or 
grazing  on  soils  that  are  not  sufficiently  stabilized. 

Grazing  is  a  complex  question,  since  domestic 
animals  compete  with  native  animals.  The  role  of 
domestic  animals  has  probably  been  overrated  by 
interested  parties  as  there  is  ample  evidence  that 
the  most  important  consumers  occur  below  the 
soil  surface  and  the  predominant  above  ground 
consumers  are  the  arthropods  (Scott  et  al.  1979). 

The  principal  external  source  of  nitrogen  to 
midcontinental  grasslands  is  from  the  atmosphere. 
The  reintroduction  of  nitrogen  back  into  the  soil 
by  cattle  dung  and  urine  is  insignificant  compared 
to  the  nitrogen  loss  from  the  presence  of  cattle 
(Woodmansee  1979).  In  this  regard,  cattle  grazing 
results  in  a  long-term  deficit  with  respect  to  nitro- 
gen, aboveground  biomass,  and  net  primary  pro- 
ductivity. Perhaps  steps  can  be  taken  to  replenish 
some  of  the  nitrogen  consumed  by  cattle.  Since 
nitrogen  loss  from  feces  and  urine  is  minimized  by 
a  healthy  soil  fauna  and  humus  content  (Wood- 
mansee 1979),  maintaining  a  healthy  grassland  is 
more  energy  effective  than  continually  attempting 
to  restore  it. 

In  areas  of  high  Juniperus  osteosperma  (Torrey) 
Little  (Utah  Juniper)  density,  the  CVRD  has  con- 
ducted hand  slashing  of  selected  trees  in  an  at- 
tempt to  enhance  grass  and  forb  cover.  The  slash  is 
spread  evenly  over  the  soil,  which  reduces  areas  of 
dense  shade  and  adds  partial  shade  to  barren 
areas.  The  shade  of  the  slash  seems  to  let  in  suffi- 
cient light  for  grass  and  forb  seedling  germination 
while  enhancing  average  soil  moisture  by  reduc- 
ing surface  evaporation.  The  success  rate  of  juni- 
per woodland  management  probably  depends  on 
the  degree  of  soil  development.  The  most  suitable 
time,  both  economically  and  ecologically,  to 
manipulate  juniper  woodland  is  probably  when 
aboveground  biomass  is  great  enough  to  carry  a 
fire.  At  this  time,  either  controlled  fire  or  slash 
treatments  can  be  used  to  open  the  woodland. 
Local  trials  should  determine  which  method  is 


best  under  specific  conditions  and  under  specified 
management  protocol.  Slash  treatments  by  the 
U.S.  Forest  Service  southeast  of  Ashfork  and  by 
cattle  rancher  Dennis  Moroni  east  of  Camp  Wood 
have  shown  almost  immediate  improvement  in 
terms  of  plant  species  diversity  and  herbaceous 
biomass.  This  method  is  far  superior  to  herbicide 
application,  juniper  pushing,  soil  ripping,  and 
brush  crushing,  all  of  which  have  inherently 
undesirable  effects  and/ or  have  provided  un- 
economical results. 

Although  controlled  burning  reflects  a  nat- 
ural phenomenon,  it  can  act  as  a  two-edged 
sword.  Applied  during  certain  times  of  the  year  or 
in  certain  areas,  fire  can  have  damaging  effects, 
such  as  the  enhancement  of  both  economically  and 
aesthetically  undesirable  grasses  (Hull  and  Pe- 
chanec  1947,  Robertson  and  Kennedy  1954).  On 
the  other  hand,  in  areas  invaded  by  weedy  shrubs, 
such  as  Gutierrezia  sarothrae  (Pursh)  Britt.  &  Rusby 
(Campbell  and  Bomberger  1934,  Ellison  1960, 
Humphrey  1958),  fire  has  been  useful  in  enhancing 
palatable  grasses  (Reynold  and  Bohning  1956). 

Although  little  is  known  of  the  specific  role  of 
fire  in  the  region,  at  least  four  of  the  historically 
most  important  grasses  of  northern  Arizona,  Bou- 
teloua  gracilis  (Kunth)  Lag.  ex  Steud.  (blue  grama), 
Pascopyrum  smithii  (Rydb.)  A.  Love  (western  wheat 
grass),  Sporobolus  cryptandrus  (Torrey)  A.  Gray 
(sand  dropseed),  and  Elymus  elymoides  (Raf.) 
Swezey  (squirrel-tail)  (Vose  and  White  1991),  are 
enhanced  by  burning.  In  Chino  Valley,  old  agri- 
cultural fields  occupied  largely  by  Kochia  scoparia 
(L.)  Schrad.  (summer-cypress)  and  Salsola  tragus  L. 
(Russian-thistle)  slowly  convert  to  the  beginnings 
of  a  mixed  prairie  dominated  by  sand  dropseed 
and  western  wheatgrass  (see  also  Costello  1944). 
After  sand  dropseed  becomes  dominant,  however, 
new  growth  dramatically  decreases,  presumably 
because  of  the  accumulation  of  dead,  gray,  matted 
leaves.  This  syndrome  is  common  in  many  grass 
species  (Beard  1953,  McNaughton  et  al.  1982,  Had- 
ley  and  Kieckhefer  1963).  After  burning  our  Chino 
Valley  plot  in  August,  summer  rains  activated 
new  growth  from  the  perennial  crowns  of  the  sand 
dropseed,  and  the  plots  soon  became  lush  and 
green,  while  adjacent,  untreated  areas  remained 
gray.  Burning  removes  the  older,  shading  leaves, 
which  allows  light  to  penetrate  to  subtending 
shoots.  Both  burning  and  mowing  have  the  added 
benefit  of  increasing  soil  temperature,  an  impor- 
tant factor  early  in  the  growing  season  (Rice  and 
Parenti  1978).  Similar  observations  with  western 
wheat  grass  have  been  made  by  Forest  Service 


239 


range  conservationist  Jay  Ebby  (personal  commu- 
nication 1994). 

At  a  number  of  sites  within  the  CVRD,  espe- 
cially where  a  barren  soil  surface  is  prevalent,  soil 
lichens  and  algae  seem  to  play  an  important  role 
in  soil  stability.  Abundant  evidence  has  been  pre- 
sented from  various  arid  and  semiarid  rangelands 
that  support  these  observations  (Clair  et  al.  1993, 
Eldridge  1993,  Harper  and  Marble  1988).  Harper 
and  Marble  (1988)  report  that  blue-green  algae, 
lichens,  and  mosses  increase  soil  water  retention, 
increase  nitrogen  availability,  and  improve  the 
microenvironment  for  the  establishment  and 
growth  of  vascular  plant  seedlings.  Harper  and 
Pendleton  (1993)  show  that  cyanobacteria  and 
cyanolichens  enhance  growth  and  essential  ele- 
ment uptake  by  associated  herbs.  These  organisms 
and  their  underlying  substrate  are  extremely 
delicate,  however;  they  are  easily  damaged  by 
mammals  (Clair  et  al.  1993)  and  they  recover  very 
slowly  from  disturbance  (Belnap  1993).  Domestic 
livestock  could  be  kept  away  from  these  areas 
until  sturdier  grass  and  forb  species  have  com- 
pletely stabilized  the  soil. 

Reclamation  should  focus  on  the  reestablish - 
ment  of  native  palatable  grasses,  sedges,  rushes, 
and  forbs,  since  these  often  correlate  with  the  gen- 
eral health  of  communities,  have  economic  value, 
and  have  received  the  heaviest  grazing  pressure. 
Since  germ  plasm  for  many  palatable  species  has 
been  extirpated  by  resource  depletion  and  seed 
predation,  reseeding  is  necessary  to  reestablish 
climax  species  within  an  economically  feasible 
time  frame.  Without  exception,  reseeding  should 
be  done  using  native  species.  The  introduction  of 
non-natives  only  confuses  the  processes  of  evolu- 
tion that  have  developed  over  millions  of  years. 

In  various  sites,  grasses  such  as  Bouteloua 
curtipendula  (Michx.)  Torrey  (side-oats  grama),  B. 
gracilis,  Hilaria  mutica  (Buckl.)  Benth.  (tobosa), 
Pascopyrum  smithii,  Poa  fendleriana  (Steud.)  Vasey 
(mutton  grass),  Stipa  speciosa  Trin.  &  Rupr.  (desert 
needlegrass)  and  Stipa  neomexicana  (Thurb.  ex 
Coult.)  Scribn.  (New  Mexican  feathergrass)  were 
remarkably  abundant.  The  plant  diversity  within 
many  of  these  areas  was  notably  greater  than 
within  areas  where  grass  cover  was  poor.  Seed 
and  mulch  from  these  areas  of  dense  grass  cover 
could  be  harvested  and  used  to  reseed  more 
barren  adjacent  areas.  The  mulch  would  promote 
higher  soil  moisture  levels  (Dysterhuis  and 
Schmutz  1947)  and  reduce  seed  predation.  This 
very  simple  process  may  also  have  a  positive  effect 
on  the  cut  area  (Penfound  1964).  Net  photosyn- 


thesis in  western  wheat  grass,  for  example,  has 
been  shown  to  increase  after  shoots  were  clipped 
(Dyer  et  al.  1982).  Also,  as  mentioned  earlier, 
removal  of  old  leaves  improves  net  productivity. 

Species  diversity  and  hence  populations  of 
rare  species  would  be  enhanced  through  the 
designation  of  permanent  grazing-free  areas. 
These  would  also  be  of  great  value  for  range  re- 
search and  as  sources  for  germ  plasm.  Although 
such  exclosures  often  require  many  years  to  show 
significant  changes  (see  Brady  et  al.  1989,  Gardner 
1950),  they  would  not  need  to  be  of  great  size.  In 
fact,  Quinn  and  Robinson  (1987)  provide  evidence 
that  a  sum  total  of  small  areas  contains  a  greater 
plant  diversity  than  an  equal  area  divided  into 
larger  subunits.  These  small  grazing-free  areas 
could  be  incorporated  into  a  system  of  wildlife 
corridors  between  larger  preserves. 

Much  of  the  Limestone  Grazing  Allotment, 
southwest  of  Ashfork,  had  been  resting  for  5  years 
prior  to  our  survey.  Although  rested  sites  in  gen- 
eral appeared  to  possess  a  much  greater  above- 
ground  biomass  and  plant  diversity  than  similar 
sites  under  recent  grazing  pressure,  they  varied 
greatly  among  themselves.  Some  areas  within  the 
allotment,  for  example,  supported  a  grass-forb 
cover  of  nearly  100  percent,  while  others,  with  ap- 
parently similar  soils  and  topography,  supported 
little  or  no  cover.  Indeed,  I  would  have  hypothe- 
sized that  the  basalt  soils  of  the  northeastern  por- 
tion of  the  allotment  were  naturally  sterile  of  non- 
woody  species  if  it  were  not  for  the  abundance  of 
grass  and  forbs  along  the  railroad  right-of-way. 
There  were  also  large  tracts  of  barren  sandstone 
and  limestone-derived  soils.  Through  proper 
management,  the  overall  net  primary  productivity 
within  most  of  the  grasslands  within  the  CVRD 
could  probably  be  increased  by  10-fold  to  100-fold. 

The  management  of  riparian  communities  is 
largely  dependent  on  the  management  of  the  up- 
lands. When  runoff  from  the  watershed  has  been 
reduced  by  the  enhancement  of  grasses  and  other 
soil  stabilizing  vegetation,  riparian  communities 
recover  quickly,  at  least  in  terms  of  vegetation 
density.  The  rapid  return  of  riparian  vegetation  is 
a  response  to  the  prolonged  availability  of  mois- 
ture and  to  the  abatement  of  catastrophic  flooding. 
Following  this  logic,  it  would  be  more  effective  in 
the  long  run  to  restore  grass  and  forb  cover  of  up- 
land areas  before  attempting  to  restore  riparian 
habitats .  When  direct  riparian  management  tactics 
are  enacted,  the  focus  of  restoration  should  be  on 
the  reintroduction  of  soil-stabilizing  monocots, 
such  as  cat-tails,  sedges,  rushes,  and  grasses. 


240 


Literature  Cited 

Bahre,  C.J.  1991.  A  legacy  of  change:  Historic  human  im- 
pact on  vegetation  in  southern  Arizona.  University  of 
Arizona  Press,  Tucson. 

Baker,  M.  and  T.  Wright.  1993.  A  botanical  survey  of  the 
Apache  Creek,  Juniper  Mesa,  Sycamore  Canyon  and 
Woodchute  wilderness  areas  of  the  Prescott  National 
Forest,  Arizona.  A  report  submitted  to  the  Chino 
Valley  Ranger  District,  Prescott  National  Forest, 
Chino  Valley,  Arizona.  188  pp. 

Baker,  M.  and  T.  Wright.  1994.  A  botanical  survey  of  the 
Camp  Wood,  Williamson  Valley,  Yolo  North,  and 
Yolo  South  grazing  allotments  of  the  Chino  Valley 
Ranger  District,  Prescott  National  Forest,  Arizona.  A 
report  submitted  to  the  Chino  Valley  Ranger  District, 
Prescott  National  Forest,  Chino  Valley,  Arizona.  126 
pp. 

Baker,  M.  and  T.  Wright.  1995.  A  botanical  survey  of  the 
Limestone  Grazing  Allotment  of  the  Chino  Valley 
Ranger  District,  Prescott  National  Forest,  Arizona.  A 
report  submitted  to  the  Chino  Valley  Ranger  District, 
Prescott  National  Forest,  Chino  Valley,  Arizona.  89 
pp. 

Beard,  J.  1953.  The  savanna  vegetation  of  northern  trop- 
ical America.  Ecological  Monographs  23:149-215. 

Belnap,  J.  1993.  Recovery  rates  of  cryptobiotic  crusts: 
Inoculant  use  and  assessment  methods.  Great  Basin 
Naturalist  53:89-95. 

Brady,  W.W.,  M.R.  Stromberg,  E.F.  Aldon,  CD.  Bon- 
ham,  and  S.H.  Henry.  1989.  Response  of  a  semidesert 
grassland  to  16  years  of  rest  from  grazing.  Journal  of 
Range  Management  42:284-288. 

Bryson,  R.A.  and  D.  Baerreis.  1967.  Possibilities  of  major 
climatic  modifications  and  their  implications:  North- 
west India,  a  case  for  study.  Bulletin  of  the  American 
Meteorological  Society  48:136-142. 

Campbell,  R.S.  and  E.H.  Bomberger.  1934.  The  occur- 
rence of  Gutierrezia  sarothrae  on  Bouteloiia  eriopoda 
ranges  in  southern  New  Mexico.  Ecology  15:49-61. 

Clair,  L.,  J.  Johnson,  and  S.  Rushforth.  1993.  Lichens  of 
soil  crust  communities  in  the  intermountain  area  of 
the  western  United  States.  Great  Basin  Naturalist 
53:5-12. 

Costello,  D.  1944.  Natural  revegetation  of  abandoned 
plowed  land  in  the  mixed  prairie  association  of 
northeastern  Colorado.  Ecology  25:312-326. 

Dodd,  J.  and  W.  Lauenroth.  1979.  Analysis  of  the 
response  of  a  grassland  ecosystem  to  stress.  In  N. 
French,  editor.  Perspectives  in  grassland  ecology,  pp. 
43-58.  Springer- Verlag,  New  York. 

Dyer,  M.,  J.  Detling,  D.  Coleman,  and  D.  Hilbert.  1982. 
The  role  of  herbivores  in  grassland.  In  J.  Estes,  R. 
Tyrl,  and  J.  Brunken  (editors).  Grasses  and  grass- 
lands, systematics  and  ecology,  pp.  255-295. 
University  of  Oklahoma  Press,  Norman. 

Dysterhuis,  E.  and  E.  Schmutz.  1947.  Natural  mulches  or 
"litter"  of  grasslands:  With  kinds  and  amounts  on  a 
southern  prairie.  Ecology  28:163-179. 


Eldridge,  D.  1993.  Cryptogams,  vascular  plants,  and  soil 

hydrological  relations:  Some  preliminary  results 

from  the  semiarid  woodlands  of  eastern  Australia. 

Great  Basin  Naturalist  53:48-58. 
Ellison,  L.  1960.  Influence  of  grazing  on  plant  succession 

of  rangelands.  Botanical  Review  26:1-78. 
Gardner,  J.L.  1950.  Effects  of  thirty  years  of  protection 

from  grazing  in  desert  grassland.  Ecology  31:44-50. 
Goodloe,  S.  1969.  Short-duration  grazing  in  Rhodesia. 

Journal  of  Range  Management  22:369-373. 
Hadley,  E.  and  B.  Kieckhefer.  1963.  Productivity  of  two 

prairie  grasses  in  relation  to  fire  frequency.  Ecology 

44:389-395. 

Harper,  K,  and  R.  Pendleton.  1993.  Cyanobacteria  and 
cyanolichens:  Can  they  enhance  availability  of  essen- 
tial minerals  for  higher  plants?  Great  Basin  Natural- 
ist 53:59-72. 

Harper,  K.  and  J.  Marble.  1988.  A  role  for  nonvascular 
plants  in  management  of  arid  and  semiarid  range- 
lands.  In  P.  Tueller,  editor.  Vegetation  science  appli- 
cations for  rangeland  analysis  and  management,  pp. 
137-169.  Kluwer  Academic  Publishers,  Boston. 

Holsinger,  K.E.  and  L.E.  Gottlieb.  1991.  Conservation  of 
rare  and  endangered  plants:  Principles  and  pros- 
pects. In  D.A.  Folk  and  K.E.  Holsinger,  editors. 
Genetics  and  conservation  of  rare  plants,  pp.  195- 
208.  Oxford  University  Press,  New  York. 

Hull,  A.C.  and  J.F.  Pechanec.  1947.  Cheatgrass:  A  chal- 
lenge to  range  research.  J.  of  Forestry  45:555-564. 

Humphrey,  R.R.  1958.  The  desert  grassland;  a  history  of 
vegetational  change  and  an  analysis  of  causes.  Botan- 
ical Review  24:193-252. 

James,  L.F.,  D.B.  Nielsen,  and  K.E.  Panter.  1992.  Impact 
of  poisonous  plants  on  the  livestock  industry.  Journal 
of  Range  Management  45:3-8. 

McNaughton,  S.,  M.  Coughenour,  and  L.  Wallace.  1982. 
Interactive  processes  in  grassland  ecosystems.  In  J. 
Estes,  R.  Tyrl,  and  J.  Brunken,  editors.  Grasses  and 
grasslands,  systematics  and  ecology,  pp.  167-193. 
University  of  Oklahoma  Press,  Norman,  USA. 

Penfound,  W.  1964.  Effects  of  denudation  on  the  pro- 
ductivity of  grassland.  Ecology  45:838-845. 

Quinn,  J.F.  and  G.R.  Robinson.  1987.  The  effects  of 
experimental  subdivision  on  plant  diversity  in  a 
California  annual  grassland.  Journal  of  Ecology 
75:837-856. 

Reynold,  H.G.  and  J.W.  Bohning.  1956.  Effects  of 
burning  on  a  desert  grass-shrub  range  in  southern 
Arizona.  Ecology  37:769-777. 

Rice,  E.  and  R.  Parenti.  1978.  Causes  of  decreases  in  pro- 
ductivity in  undisturbed  tall  grass  prairie.  American 
Journal  of  Botany  65:1091-1097. 

Robertson,  J.  and  P.B.  Kennedy.  1954.  Half-century 
changes  on  northern  Nevada  ranges.  Journal  of 
Range  Management  7:117-121. 

Savory,  A.  1978.  A  holistic  approach  to  range  manage- 
ment using  short-duration  grazing.  Proceedings  of 
the  First  InternatT  Grasslands  Congress  1:555-557. 


241 


Scott,  J.M.,  B.  Csuti,  J.D.  Jacobi,  and  J.E.  Estes.  1987.  Spe- 
cies richness;  a  graphic  approach  to  protecting  future 
biological  diversity.  BioScience  37:782-788 

Scott,  ].,  N.  French,  and  J.  Leetham.  1979.  Patterns  of 
consumption  in  grasslands.  In  N.  French,  editor. 
Perspectives  in  grassland  ecology,  pp.  89-105. 
Springer- Verlag,  New  York. 

Van  Devender,  T.R.  1990.  Late  quaternary  vegetation 
and  climate  of  the  Sonoran  Desert,  United  States  and 
Mexico.  In  J.L.  Betancourt,  T.R.  Van  Devender  and 
P.S.  Martin,  editors.  Packrat  middens:  The  last  40,000 
years  of  biotic  change,  pp.  134-165.  University  of 
Arizona  Press,  Tucson. 

Vose,  J.  and  A.  White.  1991.  Biomass  response  mechan- 
isms of  understory  species  the  first  year  after  pre- 
scribed burning  in  an  Arizona  (USA)  ponderosa  pine 
community.  Forest  Ecology  and  Management  40: 
175-188. 


West,  N.E.  1993.  Biodiversity  of  rangelands.  Journal  of 
Range  Management  46:2-13. 

Westman,  W.E.  1990.  Managing  for  biodiversity.  Bio- 
Science  40:26-33. 

Wheeler,  Sir  M.  1960.  Civilization  of  the  Indus  Valley 
and  Beyond.  Thames  and  Hudson,  London. 

Woodmansee,  R.  1979.  Factors  influencing  input  and 
output  of  nitrogen  in  grasslands.  In  N.  French, 
editor.  Perspectives  in  grassland  ecology,  pp.  117- 
134.  Springer- Verlag,  New  York. 


242 


Monitoring  of  Penstemon  dutei  A.  Nels.  on  Tornado  Salvage 

DEBRA  L.  CRISP 

Debra  L.  Crisp  is  a  wildlife  technician  on  the  Peaks  Ranger  District,  Coconino  National  Forest 

Abstract:  Penstemon  clutei  is  a  sensitive  plant  found  on  the  Coconino  National  Forest.  The 
plant  is  a  Region  Three  Forest  Service  Sensitive  species  and  is  recognized  as  a  category  2 
Species  by  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  The  plant  was  the  subject  of  a  monitoring 
project  as  a  mitigating  measure  for  a  timber  salvage  sale  within  its  known  range. 


Introduction 

Penstemon  clutei  A.  Nels.  is  an  endemic  that  is 
known  to  occur  only  in  the  volcanic  field  associ- 
ated with  Sunset  Crater.  It  is  a  federally  listed 
category  2  and  Region  3  Forest  Service  Sensitive 
species.  It  is  a  short-lived  perennial  that  is  esti- 
mated to  live  5-10  years  (Phillips  et  al.  1992).  The 
species  can  be  distinguished  from  other  species  of 
Penstemon  found  in  the  area  by  the  sharply  toothed 
leaves  that  are  amplexicaul  on  the  lower  portions 
of  the  plant,  by  the  bright  pink  flowers  when  in 
bloom,  and  by  the  size — up  to  3  feet  tall.  The  more 
common  Penstemon  barbatus  (Cav.)  Roth,  which  is 
found  in  the  area,  has  entire,  non -amplexicaul 
leaves  and  red  flowers. 

The  plant  was  first  described  in  1927  as  a  sub- 
species of  Penstemon  pseudospectabilis  M.E.  Jones  by 
A.  Nelson,  but  was  given  a  distinct  taxonomic 
separation  by  Keck  in  1937  based  on  the  narrow 
ecological  niche  that  Penstemon  clutei  occupies.  The 
plant  prefers  flat  or  gently  sloping  sites  with  open 
ponderosa  pine  and  a  layer  of  cinders  5-10  cm 
thick,  with  a  layer  of  silty  soil  of  similar  thickness 
below.  This  soil  structure  has  an  important  func- 
tion in  water  retention  after  rains.  The  underlying 
soil  retains  water  for  a  longer  period  of  time  than 
the  cinder  layer  above  after  summer  moisture  is 
received.  This  allows  the  plant  to  retain  moisture 
in  the  area  of  the  root  system  during  periods  when 
no  moisture  is  received  (PhilHps  et  al.  1992).  Areas 
of  deep  cinders  without  the  soil  layer,  areas  on  the 
slopes  of  cinder  cones  where  soil  is  unstable,  and 
areas  of  dense  vegetative  cover  by  other  vegeta- 
tion such  as  blue  grama  {Bouteloua  gracilis  (H.B.K.) 
Lag.)  do  not  provide  the  required  microhabitat  for 
this  plant. 

Penstemon  clutei  can  tolerate  at  least  some  level 
of  disturbance  and  has  been  observed  in  the  past 
to  respond  positively  to  various  disturbance  fac- 
tors. A  wildfire  in  November  1973,  known  as  the 
Burnt  Fire,  burned  a  large  area  of  the  known  habi- 
tat of  Penstemon  clutei.  Goodwin  states  that  "Pen- 
stemon clutei  is  one  of  the  pioneering  species"  in 


the  area  of  this  wildfire  (1979).  He  also  described 
the  population  within  the  burn  as  being  "the  larg- 
est population"  and  the  individual  plants  as  being 
"very  vigorous"  and  "reproduction  abundant." 
Some  of  the  results  from  the  fire  included  opening 
up  the  canopy  and  reducing  litter  and  competing 
vegetation.  There  have  been  some  experiments 
with  prescribed  burning  in  the  past,  but  the  plants 
apparently  did  not  respond  as  well  to  the  disturb- 
ance. Penstemon  clutei  can  also  respond  to  human- 
caused  disturbances  such  as  logging.  In  1992,  Phil- 
lips et  al.  observed  that  the  highest  concentration 
of  reproducing  adults  and  seedlings  were  growing 
around  stumps  or  near  the  edges  of  decaying  logs. 

Need  for  Monitoring  Project 

On  October  26,  1992,  a  major  winter  storm 
system  passed  through  the  Flagstaff  area.  A 
tornado  associated  with  this  storm  struck  an  area 
northeast  of  Flagstaff  near  O'Leary  Peak.  It  was 
the  only  known  occurrence  of  a  tornado  in  the 
Flagstaff  area.  The  tornado  damaged  stands  of 
ponderosa  pine  habitat  on  Coconino  National 
Forest  and  on  adjacent  Park  Service  property 
within  Sunset  Crater  National  Monument, 
uprooting  many  large  ponderosa  pine  trees.  The 
damage  occurred  in  pine  stands  on  the  forest 
southeast  and  west  of  Sunset  Crater  National 
Monument,  as  well  as  in  the  monument  itself.  This 
area  is  within  the  habitat  of  Penstemon  clutei. 
District  personnel  proposed  a  salvage  sale  of  the 
downed  and  severely  damaged  material  within 
the  National  Forest  portion  of  the  path  of  destruc- 
tion. This  sale  was  known  as  "Tornado  Salvage." 

The  potential  impacts  to  Penstemon  clutei  were 
evaluated  while  planning  for  the  sale.  Although 
past  observations  indicated  that  Penstemon  clutei 
responds  to  disturbance,  concerns  over  the  level  of 
disturbance  from  heavy  equipment  and  possible 
destruction  of  the  seed  bank  from  churning  of  the 
soil  were  addressed.  Past  observations  by  district 
personnel  and  others  have  indicated  that  under 
certain  conditions  vehicles  that  leave  the  estab- 


243 


lished  roadways  in  the  area  can  become  stuck  and 
can  cause  substantial  soil  disturbance,  potentially 
causing  heavy  churning  of  the  soil  layers  previous- 
ly mentioned  as  a  necessary  habitat  component  for 
Penstemon  clutei.  These  conditions  appeared  to 
occur  most  often  in  the  summer  months.  These 
observations  and  the  concern  over  the  protection 
of  the  habitat  of  Penstemon  clutei  led  to  the  devel- 
opment of  the  primary  mitigating  measure.  This 
mitigation  was  the  restriction  of  sale  operations, 
including  the  operation  of  heavy  machinery  to  the 
winter  months  when  the  soil  was  frozen,  therefore 
reducing  the  potential  for  soil  damage.  Several 
other  mitigating  measures  were  developed  during 
the  planning  of  Tornado  Salvage  to  minimize  the 
impacts  of  the  salvage  operation  on  Penstemon 
clutei.  These  included  on-site  visits  during  periods 
of  active  harvest  to  evaluate  equipment  disturb- 
ance, monitoring,  and  restriction  of  the  equipment 
to  designated  skid  trails  within  occupied  habitat. 
Another  mitigating  measure  was  to  scatter  the 
remaining  slash  over  the  area.  In  some  instances, 
slash  from  timber  sales  is  pushed  into  piles  using  a 
tractor.  This  can  be  a  factor  in  soil  disturbance.  As 
the  tractor  moves  over  the  area  pushing  the  slash, 
the  top  layer  of  soil  is  sometimes  disturbed. 

Concern  over  disturbance  of  the  soil  structure 
and  potential  damage  to  the  seed  bed  were  factors 
considered  in  the  monitoring  project  described 
below.  These  were  more  long-term  concerns  than 
actual  loss  of  individual  plants.  Another  objective 
was  to  confirm  the  validity  of  the  mitigation  meas  - 
ures,  because  in  recent  years  the  volcanic  area  that 
is  the  habitat  for  Penstemon  clutei  has  been  desig- 
nated for  a  variety  of  uses,  including  recreation 
and  fuelwood  gathering. 

Monitoring  Methods 

The  salvage  sale  was  separated  into  two  units 
geographically  as  a  consequence  of  the  storm  path, 
which  was  southwest  to  northeast.  One  unit  was 
southeast  of  Sunset  Crater  National  Monument 
and  the  other  was  west  of  Sunset  Crater  National 
Monument  near  O'Leary  Peak.  Monitoring  the 
project  consisted  of  three  parts:  plant  searches, 
photopoints,  and  regular  visits  by  the  district  sale 
administrator  or  a  harvest  inspector. 

Plant  searches  were  conducted  on  both  units 
in  November  1992.  No  transects  or  other  specific 
sampling  techniques  were  used,  primarily  because 
distribution  of  Penstemon  clutei  was  unknown 
within  the  area.  The  uneven  distribution  due  to  the 
specific  microsite  requirements  made  it  difficult  to 
use  a  specific  sampling  technique.  However,  by 


using  local  landmarks  all  of  the  area  was  searched 
and  very  few,  if  any,  of  the  plants  would  have 
been  missed.  The  plants  were  dormant,  but  still 
easily  recognizable.  The  serrate  leaves  and  pinkish 
coloration  of  the  foliage  made  the  plants  easy  to 
identify.  There  were  also  some  dried  seed  stalks 
from  the  previous  growing  season.  This  search 
was  conducted  by  walking  around  over  the  unit 
and  counting  plants  as  they  were  found.  The 
plants  were  separated  into  two  categories,  adults 
and  seedlings,  based  on  plant  size  and  presence  or 
absence  of  a  seed  stalk.  Plants  were  considered  to 
be  seedlings  if  no  evidence  of  a  seed  stalk  was 
present  and  if  the  plant  was  small.  Relatively  large 
plants  with  or  without  seed  stalk  were  considered 
adult  plants.  The  purpose  of  the  monitoring 
project  was  to  gain  a  general  understanding  of  the 
impacts  of  salvage  sale  activities  on  Penstemon 
clutei  habitat.  Funding  constraints  prevented  the 
development  of  a  statistically  valid  sampling 
system.  The  plant  search  was  repeated  on  the  total 
area  of  the  unit  near  O'Leary  Peak  after  comple- 
tion of  sale  activities  in  August  1994.  A  partial 
search  was  done  on  the  unit  southeast  of  the 
Monument.  A  complete  search  was  not  done, 
because  after  the  initial  search  it  was  determined 
that  most  of  the  unit  was  only  marginal  habitat  for 
Penstemon  clutei  and  most  of  the  plants  found  in 
1992  were  outside  of  the  area  of  proposed  activity. 

Fourteen  photopoints  were  also  established  in 
November  1992.  These  points  were  designed  to 
cover  a  variety  of  situations  that  might  occur.  For 
example,  one  photopoint  was  placed  in  the  road- 
way where  hauling  would  occur  to  monitor  the 
effect  of  activities  associated  with  roads,  such  as 
traffic  use  and  road  blading.  There  were  also  some 
points  that  would  be  affected  by  harvest  activities, 
such  as  skidding  and  decking  of  logs.  Some  points 
were  established  in  areas  where  no  disturbance 
was  anticipated.  All  photopoints  were  marked 
using  metal  tags  attached  to  nearby  trees.  Com- 
pass bearings  and  distances  to  the  selected  plant  or 
plant  groups  were  recorded.  Directions  to  the 
photopoints  were  noted  and  anticipated  outcomes 
to  the  plants  were  recorded  as  damaged,  de- 
stroyed, or  avoided.  Sketches  were  made  of  the 
surrounding  areas  and  nearby  landmarks.  For 
example,  if  there  was  a  nearby  rock  or  log,  this 
was  included  in  the  sketch.  At  least  one  photo  was 
taken  of  the  selected  plants.  The  photos  and  the 
accompanying  information  were  combined  on  a 
field  form  designed  for  the  project  that  was  kept 
on  file  for  comparison  after  the  sale  was  com- 
pleted. Two  wire  rings  were  used  to  help  define 


244 


the  plants  in  the  photos.  These  rings,  constructed 
from  heavy  wire  and  wrapped  with  brightly 
colored  flagging,  were  placed  around  the  selected 
plant  during  field  visits  when  the  photo  was 
taken.  Also  included  in  the  photo  was  a  sign 
including  photopoint  number  and  date.  This  sign 
was  constructed  of  heavy  paper  and  attached  to  a 
standard  size  clipboard.  The  photopoints  were 
revisited  on  at  least  four  occasions  between  No- 
vember 1992  and  August  1994:  two  pre-harvest 
visits  and  two  visits  after  harvest  was  completed. 
On  each  occasion  the  condition  of  the  plant  was 
recorded  and  a  photo  was  taken. 

During  the  sale,  the  area  was  visited  regularly 
by  the  district  sale  administrator  or  the  harvest 
inspector.  The  biological  technician  that  was 
responsible  for  monitoring  Penstemon  clutei  was 
also  designated  as  the  harvest  inspector.  During 
visits  to  check  the  status  of  Penstemon  clutei,  the 
biological  technician  could  also  check  the  area  for 
soil  disturbance  and  other  factors  of  disturbance 
associated  with  sale  activities  that  might  affect  the 
plants  or  habitat.  Any  activity  that  needed  atten- 
tion could  be  reported  to  the  sale  administrator. 
This  made  field  visits  more  efficient  because  the 
visits  could  serve  two  functions. 

Results 

Photopoint  information  recorded  for  the 
project  shows  that  most  of  the  predictions  made 
on  the  fates  of  individual  plants  were  correct.  The 
following  examples  are  some  predictions  that 
were  verified  during  the  monitoring  project: 

•  The  photopoint  of  a  plant  that  was  in  the  road 
was  destroyed  by  blading  activity  that  occurred 
during  the  sale  and  it  had  not  recovered  on  the 
August  1994  visit. 

•  At  four  points,  it  was  anticipated  that  the  plants 
would  be  avoided  by  sale  operations  when  the 
points  were  established  in  November  1992  and 
these  plants  survived  and  were  present  in 
August  1994. 

•  At  four  points,  it  was  anticipated  that  the  plants 
would  be  damaged  or  destroyed  by  salvage 
operations  and  these  plants  were  destroyed. 
Two  were  destroyed  by  road  blading  activity. 
Two  others  near  harvested  logs  were  destroyed 
by  skidding  activity. 

•  The  control  reference  point,  located  outside  of 
the  cutting  unit  boundary  where  no  activities 
occurred,  remained  generally  the  same 
throughout  the  monitoring  project.  While 


plants  at  this  point  were  not  actually  counted 
because  they  were  outside  of  the  activity  area, 
no  substantial  change  in  the  plant  number  was 
noted. 

•  At  three  points,  plants  died  of  causes  other  than 
sale  activity.  The  cause  of  death  of  two  of  these 
plants  was  unknown;  the  plants  appeared  dried 
and  shriveled  on  one  or  more  visits  and  were 
dead  on  the  visit  in  August  1994.  At  the  third 
point  a  plant  had  been  eaten  by  an  unknown 
herbivore,  probably  a  rabbit.  This  photopoint 
could  not  be  relocated  on  the  final  visit,  but  it  is 
assumed  that  the  severe  clipping  eventually 
caused  it  to  die. 

Plant  Survey  Results 

During  the  August  1994,  visit  an  increase  in 
population  was  noticeable  by  visual  inspection. 
Therefore,  a  plant  search  was  done  of  the  entire 
unit.  The  salvage  sale  unit  near  O'Leary  Peak 
showed  an  increase  in  Penstemon  clutei  plants  from 
831  plants  in  November  1992  to  2099  plants  in 
August  1994.  No  distinction  was  made  during  this 
count  between  seedlings  and  adults.  The  count 
confirmed  the  observed  increase  in  population. 

A  complete  plant  search  was  done  on  the  unit 
southeast  of  Sunset  Crater  National  Monument  in 
1992,  but  was  not  repeated  in  August  1994.  This 
unit  was  marginal  habitat,  mostly  covered  by  deep 
cindered  soils.  In  November  1992,  there  were  110 
plants  recorded  on  or  near  the  only  photopoint 
within  the  unit,  and  most  of  these  were  seedlings. 
During  the  August  1994  visit,  85  adult  plants  and 
200  seedlings  were  recorded  in  the  same  area. 
Disturbance  was  visible  on  the  site,  but  the 
Penstemon  clutei  population  still  increased.  At  this 
photopoint,  there  were  some  drag  marks  left  in  the 
soil  and  on  an  April  1994  visit,  this  plant  was 
recorded  as  destroyed.  However,  an  adult-size 
plant  was  present  at  the  photopoint  location  in 
August  1994,  growing  in  the  same  location.  Sale 
activity  in  the  area  occurred  during  the  winter 
months,  so  it  is  possible  that  while  the  top  of  the 
plant  was  torn  away,  the  plant  was  able  to  grow 
back  from  the  roots. 

Discussion 

Observations  during  the  initial  surveys  deter- 
mined that  the  area  near  O'Leary  Peak  was  better 
Penstemon  clutei  habitat  than  the  unit  southeast  of 
the  monument,  primarily  due  to  a  difference  in 
soil  structure.  The  soil  near  O'Leary  Peak  seems  to 
contain  the  beneficial  layeruig  of  cinders  and  soil 


245 


as  previously  described.  The  other  unit  southeast 
of  Sunset  Crater  is  mostly  deep  cindered  soils. 
While  both  areas  remained  in  the  monitoring  plan, 
most  of  the  monitoring  efforts  were  concentrated 
on  the  area  near  O'Leary  Peak.  Most  examples  of 
the  situations  desired  for  the  photopoint  monitor- 
ing were  found  in  the  O'Leary  area  and  the  area 
also  contained  a  significantly  larger  population  of 
Penstemon  clutei. 

The  storm  that  caused  the  damage  was  a  very 
unusual  occurrence  for  the  Flagstaff  area.  One  of 
its  noticeable  effects  was  the  reduction  of  tree 
canopy  within  the  area  of  damage.  Initially  it 
appeared  that  all  of  the  trees  in  the  area  had  been 
uprooted.  However,  as  months  passed  and  tree 
foliage  began  to  dry,  it  became  apparent  that  some 
smaller  trees  remained  alive,  which  resulted  in  a 
ponderosa  pine  stand  of  smaller  trees  with  less 
canopy  closure.  This  could  be  a  situation  similar  to 
that  found  by  Goodwin  (1979)  in  areas  affected  by 
Burnt  Fire,  where  he  noticed  an  increase  in  both 
numbers  and  vigor  of  Penstemon  clutei  plants  and  a 
decrease  in  canopy.  The  storm  caused  substantial 
ground  disturbance  by  uprooting  trees  and  other 
vegetation.  The  exact  effect  of  such  disturbance  on 
Penstemon  clutei  is  unknown;  however,  no  adverse 
effects  on  the  plants  were  observed.  Disturbances 
from  logging  and  fire  have  been  observed  by 
others,  but  no  soil  disturbance  of  the  magnitude 
caused  by  the  storm  has  been  observed  before. 

The  increase  in  population  of  Penstemon  clutei 
is  at  least  partially  attributed  to  the  timber  harvest 
activities.  The  sale  activities  did  destroy  or 
damage  some  individual  plants,  but  there  was  a 
substantial  post -harvest  increase  in  the  population 
of  Penstemon  clutei.  Certain  activities  such  as  the 
blading  of  roads  destroyed  individuals,  but  other 
activities  provided  some  slight  disturbances  which 
may  have  benefited  the  Penstemon  clutei  popula- 
tion. The  skidding  of  logs  and  other  activities  on 
the  project  could  have  helped  disperse  the  seeds  of 
Penstemon  clutei  to  parts  of  the  area  unoccupied  by 
the  species  before  the  activities.  By  planning  most 
of  the  activities  during  winter  months,  no  deep 
disturbance  of  the  beneficial  soil  layering  resulted. 
Through  the  reduction  in  competing  vegetation. 


distribution  of  the  seed,  and  only  slight  disturb- 
ance to  the  top  of  the  soil,  the  sale-related  activities 
contributed  to  the  increase  in  population  oi  Pen- 
stemon clutei. 

Conclusion 

The  monitoring  of  Penstemon  clutei  was  an 
example  of  a  successful  monitoring  project.  The 
objective  was  to  monitor  the  habitat  of  Penstemon 
clutei  for  adverse  factors  during  the  operation  of  a 
salvage  sale  within  the  known  habitat.  The  moni- 
toring plan  was  simple  to  design  and  revisits  were 
easy  to  accomplish.  The  project  accomplished  the 
desired  results  and  did  not  require  a  lot  of  tech- 
nical expertise  or  special  equipment.  A  more 
complicated  model  could  have  been  constructed 
and  may  have  provided  better  information  on 
population  trends  and  related  subjects,  but  the 
monitoring  plan  using  the  photopoints,  plant 
searches,  and  visits  to  the  project  area  provided 
the  desired  information  on  the  impacts  on  Pen- 
stemon clutei  habitat. 

Projects  within  the  range  of  Penstemon  clutei 
can  be  completed  if  certain  precautions  are 
observed.  By  restricting  activities  to  the  colder 
months  of  the  year,  the  soil  layering  that  is  an 
important  component  of  the  habitat  of  Penstemon 
clutei  can  be  preserved.  Visits  to  the  area  to 
monitor  activities  provided  additional  protection 
to  Penstemon  clutei.  Disturbance  was  restricted  to 
an  acceptable  level  and  the  habitat  was  preserved. 

Literature  Cited 

Goodwin,  G.  1979.  Observations  on  Penstemon  clutei  on 
the  Coconino  National  Forest.  Flagstaff,  Arizona.  8 
pp. 

Phillips,  A.M.  Ill,  E.M.  Peterson,  L.T.  Green  III,  ].  Maz- 
zoni  and  B.G.  Phillips.  1980.  Status  report  on  Pens- 
temon clutei.  Prepared  for  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  13  pp. 

Phillips,  A.M.  Ill,  M.B.  Murmov  and  R.I.  Van  Ommeren. 
1992.  Distribution  and  ecology  of  Sunset  Crater 
Beardtongue  {Penstemon  clutei)  in  the  cinder  hills 
area,  Coconino  National  Forest,  Arizona.  Prepared 
for  Coconino  National  Forest,  USDA  Forest  Service, 
Flagstaff,  Arizona.  13  pp. 


246 


Monitoring  a  Population  of  Grama  Grass  Cactus 


DWAIN  W.  VINCENT  and  ANTHONY  F.  LUTONSKY 

Bureau  of  Land  Management,  435  Montano  Rd.  N.E.,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico  87107 
Natural  Resource  Specialist  and  Archeologist,  respectively 

Abstract:  During  May  of  1994,  while  conducting  a  special  status  plant  clearance  to  meet 
NEPA  requirements  for  a  proposed  trials  bike  race,  a  large  population  of  grama  grass  or 
paper-spined  cactus  was  discovered  near  San  Ysidro,  New  Mexico.  The  population  consisted 
of  121  individuals  that  were  identified  and  planetable  mapped.  Other  information  compiled 
during  the  establishment  of  baseline  monitoring  studies  included  plant  heights,  top  diame- 
ters (both  excluding  spines),  the  occurrence  (frequency)  and  number  of  flower  buds,  and 
general  view  photos  of  the  habitat  area. 


Introduction 

Populations  of  grama  grass  or  paper-spined 
cactus.  Tourney  a  papyracantha  (Engelm.)  Britt.  & 
Rose  (synonym  Pediocactus  papyracantha)  (Fletcher 
et  al.  1984),  near  San  Ysidro,  New  Mexico  are 
threatened  by  collectors,  domestic  livestock  graz- 
ing and  trampling,  and  motor  bikes  (Knight  1983, 
Fletcher  and  Moir  1993,  Peddie  1993). 

During  April  and  May  of  1994,  in  order  to 
meet  NEPA  requirements,  the  Bureau  of  Land 
Management  was  in  the  process  of  legally  clearing 
an  area  for  an  environmental  analysis  of  a  trials 
bike  race  when  a  large  population  of  grama  grass 
cactus  was  discovered  in  the  area. 

This  small,  well-camouflaged  cactus  was  first 
collected  by  Augustus  Fendler  in  May,  1847  (Si- 
vinski  and  Lightfoot  1994).  It  is  presently  a  cate- 
gory 2  candidate  for  federal  listing. 

Moderate  to  heavy  livestock  grazing  has 
occurred  in  the  area  for  over  200  years.  Coronado 
wintered  near  Bernalillo,  NM  in  1541  with  a  com- 
missary of  sheep,  goats,  and  horses  (approximate- 
ly 20  miles  east  of  the  site).  From  1776,  when 
Spanish  settlers  began  grazing  the  area,  ecological 
phyto-edaphic  communities  have  evolved  under 
continuous  heavy  grazing.  At  the  present  time 
approximately  36  cows  graze  the  area  (3,947  acres) 
for  9  months  (October-June).  Grama  grass  cactus 
grows  within  grass  stubble  and  near  shrubs  and 
half  shrubs.  This  affords  it  some  protection  from 
grazing.  Cactus  nurse  plants  in  the  area  include 
broom  snakeweed,  black  grama,  blue  grama,  alkali 
sacaton,  and  broom  snakeweed.  Grama  grass  cac- 
tus tends  to  grow  no  taller  than  the  surrounding 
protective  vegetation. 

The  grama  grass  cactus  is  a  fairly  widespread 
species,  occurring  in  most  of  central  New  Mexico, 
east-central  Arizona,  and  the  vicinity  of  Dell  City, 
Hudspeth  County,  Texas  (Sivinski  and  Lightfoot 


1994).  Threats  to  T.  papyracantha  include  trampling 
and  removal  of  sheltering  grass  cover  by  livestock, 
urbanization,  highway  and  road  construction,  col- 
lection, predators,  disease,  and  off-road  vehicles. 

A  simple  mapping/monitoring  technique  is 
needed  for  grama  grass  cactus  where  populations 
can  be  easily  relocated  in  succeeding  years  after 
the  baseline  studies  are  established. 

Description  of  the  Site 

The  geology  consists  of  rocks  from  the  Petri- 
fied Forest  Member  of  the  Chinle  Formation 
(Triassic).  The  formation  is  a  reddish  orange  and 
brownish  maroon  shale  with  subordinate  reddish 
sandstone  and  minor  green  shale,  brown  clastic 
limestone,  and  small  pebble  conglomerate  (Wood- 
ward and  Ruetschilling  1976).  Thickness  is  about 
1000  feet.  The  Tierra  Amarilla  Anticline,  an  impor- 
tant geologic  landmark,  is  located  approximately 
three-quarters  of  a  mile  northeast  of  the  site. 

The  mean  elevation  of  the  site  is  5,640  feet, 
aspect  is  south,  and  percent  slope  ranges  from  0  to 
30  percent.  The  average  annual  precipitation  is  10- 
12  inches  and  the  average  annual  temperature  is 
52-54°F,  with  a  frost-free  period  of  120-140  days 
(April-September). 

The  soil  mapping  unit  is  rock  outcrop-Zia 
Complex;  included  in  this  unit  are  small  areas  of 
the  Sky  village  series  near  the  rock  outcrop.  The 
Skyvillage  series  soils  are  classified  as  loamy, 
mixed  (calcareous),  mesic,  Lithic,  Ustic  Torrior- 
thents  (USDA  1987). 

The  Skyvillage  soils  have  10-18  percent  clay 
with  a  moist  bulk  density  of  1.35-1.55  g/cc.  Perm- 
eability is  moderately  rapid  (2.0-6.0  in/hr)  and 
available  water  capacity  is  very  low  (0.11-0.16 
in/in).  Soil  reaction  is  7.4-8.4  pH  and  salinity  is 
less  than  2  mhos /cm.  The  shrink-swell  potential  is 
low.  There  is  low  potential  for  frost  action  and  the 


247 


hydrologic  soil  group  is  D.  Effective  rooting  depth 
is  6-20  inches.  Runoff  is  medium,  and  the  hazard 
of  water  erosion  is  moderate  (USDA  1987).  Rain- 
fall runs  quickly  off  the  area's  rock  outcrops, 
through  the  site,  and  eventually  downstream  into 
the  Rio  Salado. 

A  typical  soil  pedon  (USDA  1987)  follows: 


Horizon  Description 

A  0-2  inches;  pale  yellow  (2.5Y  7/4)  fine  sandy 
loam  or  sandy  loam,  light  olive  brown  (2.5Y  5/4) 
moist;  weak  fine  granular  structure;  soft,  very 
friable,  slightly  sticky  and  slightly  plastic;  few 
fine  roots;  slightly  effervescent;  moderately  alka- 
line; abrupt  smooth  boundary.  Percent  clay  10- 
15. 

a  2-11  inches;  light  gray  (2.5Y  7/2)  fine  sandy 
loam,  light  olive  brown  (2.5Y  5/4)  moist;  mas- 
sive; slightly  hard,  friable,  slightly  sticky  and 
slightly  plastic;  few  fine  and  very  fine  roots;  10 
percent  pebbles;  slightly  effervescent;  mildly 
alkaline. 

R  12-16  inches  sandstone  (depth  to  sandstone 
ranges  from  6-20  inches). 


The  vegetation  ranges  from  desert  grassland 
to  juniper  savanna  in  the  area.  The  plant  commu- 
nity consists  of  widely  scattered  one-seed  juniper 
with  an  understory  dominated  by  black  grama, 
side  oats  grama,  and  blue  grama.  Grasses  occur- 
ring in  lesser  amounts  include  galleta  grass,  Indian 
rice  grass,  bottlebrush  squirreltail.  New  Mexico 
feathergrass.  New  Mexico  muhly,  and  Fendler 
three-awn.  Broom  snakeweed  is  the  dominant 
shrubby  species. 

From  an  oblique  or  vertical  view  the  grama 
grass  cactus  appears  grass-like.  The  spines  are  the 
most  distinguishing  characteristic  of  this  species, 
as  described  by  Benson  (1962): 

Spines  dense,  obscuring  the  surface  of  the  stem; 
central  spines  whitish  or  pale  brown,  changing 
to  gray,  flexible,  1  or  sometimes  2-4  per  aureole, 
the  upper  ones  then  smaller,  curving  upward, 
the  mass  of  centerals  overarching  the  apex  of 
the  stem,  the  longer  ones  usually  3/4  to  1/4 
inches  (1.9-3.1  cm)  long,  up  to  1/20  inch  (1.2  or 
1.3  cm)  broad  basally,  subulate,  strongly  flat- 
tened, involute  and  the  midrib  evident  on  the 
central  side,  it  and  the  margins  puberulent,  the 
cross  section  very  narrow;  radial  spines  ashy 
white  or  pale  gray,  flexible,  6-8  per  aureole, 
spreading  parallel  to  the  surface  of  the  stem, 
straight,  the  longer  ones  about  1/8  inch  (3  mm) 


long,  up  to  nearly  1/48  inch  (0.5  mm)  broad, 
flat,  very  thin. 

Wildlife  that  may  damage  the  cactus  in  the 
area  are  the  cottontail  rabbit,  black-tailed  jack- 
rabbit,  spotted  groundsquirrel,  kangaroo  rat,  silky 
pocketmouse,  plains  pocketmouse,  western  har- 
vest mouse,  deer  mouse,  hite-footed  deer  mouse, 
northern  grasshopper  mouse,  and  white-throated 
wood  rat. 

Methods 

Grama  grass  cactus  is  a  clonal  species  that 
occurs  in  small  groups  dispersed  unevenly 
throughout  suitable  habitat.  Clonal  groupings  can 
range  from  a  few  scattered  plants  to  nearly  200 
individuals  in  a  1-2  acre  area.  Accurate  counts  of 
individuals  within  a  population  of  this  extremely 
cryptic  plant  are  almost  impossible  to  obtain  and 
are  infrequently  attempted.  Since  this  plant  is  so 
difficult  to  see  (especially  juveniles),  reliable 
density  estimates  for  large  areas  are  almost 
nonexistent  (Sivinski  and  Lightfoot  1994).  The 
planetable-based  recording  system  is  among  the 
oldest  forms  of  surveying  technique.  A  modern 
planetable  outfit  consists  of  an  adjustable  tripod, 
planetable  board  (a  mobile  field  drafting  board), 
alidade  (equipped  with  stadia  wires  and  magnify- 
ing optic  lens  and/or  laser),  drawing  instruments, 
stadia  rod,  and  measuring  tape  (300  ft). 

The  planetable  system  is  based  on  direct  ob- 
servation and  measurement,  and  maps  and  rec- 
ords are  made  (to  appropriate  scale)  while  in  the 
field.  Recording  topographic  features  and  other 
structural  attributes  while  they  are  in  full  view  has 
many  applications  (Brinker  and  Wolf  1977).  Civil 
and  mining  engineering,  forestry,  archaeology, 
geology,  agriculture,  small  tract  surveying,  and 
military  operations  still  use  planetable  technology. 
Though  photogrammetry  (aircraft  or  satellite)  is 
currently  the  method  used  for  large-scale  map- 
ping, it  remains  impossible  to  extract  everything 
map  worthy  from  remote  imagery.  Ground  truth - 
ing  still  requires  exactly  that — direct  observation 
and  recording  on  the  ground. 

With  the  board  and  tripod  assembled  and  the 
drawing  mylar  fastened,  the  planetable  was 
located  on  a  small  mound  (without  any  plants) 
that  provided  direct  observation  of  the  known 
Toumeya  population  cluster.  A  survey  pin  was 
inserted  into  the  ground,  directly  under  the  center 
of  the  planetable,  establishing  a  base  reference 
point  from  which  measurements  and  recordation 
would  be  made.  A  previous  survey  had  identified 


248 


the  general  concentration  location  and  the  plane- 
table  was  located  in  proximity  to,  but  well  outside 
of,  the  population  cluster. 

A  careful  examination  of  the  area  was  con- 
ducted and  a  pin  flag  was  set  next  to  each  identi- 
fied plant.  It  became  apparent  as  the  flagging  pro- 
gressed that  the  bulk  of  the  population  occupied 
the  bottom  and  both  hillsides  of  a  small  shallow 
basin  in  roughly  an  elliptical  pattern.  It  was 
possible  to  establish  four  corner  points  outside  of 
the  population  with  the  plant  locations  flagged. 
Each  corner  was  pin  flagged  and  recorded  on  the 
planetable.  A  tape  was  attached  to  the  base  station 
survey  pin  and  the  distance  to  each  individual 
plant  was  measured  and  recorded  on  the  map.  As 
the  location  measurement  was  taken,  the  pin  flag 
was  replaced  with  a  nail  located  approximately  5 
cm  north  of  each  plant.  Plant  attributes  (height, 
top  diameter,  configuration,  budding  status)  were 
recorded  at  the  same  time.  The  nails  identify  all  of 
the  recorded  plants;  the  assumption  is  that  in 
future  examinations  those  plants  unmarked  by 
nails  will  be  new  individuals  in  the  population. 

Results  and  Discussion 

Within  the  study  site  (approximately  31.3 
square  meters),  121  individuals  were  recorded. 
Another  10  individuals  were  found  outside  the  site 
further  down  the  hillside. 

Ten  of  the  population  were  found  in  clusters 
of  two,  three,  and  five,  respectively.  There  were 
four  sets  of  twin  stem  plants.  The  mean  height  was 
2.36  cm  and  the  mean  top  diameter  was  1.61  cm. 
The  number  of  individuals  with  flowering  buds 
was  33,  ranging  from  one  to  five  with  a  mean  of 
1.5.  There  were  51  flowering  buds  in  the  popula- 
tion that  may  produce  seed.  Forty-two  percent  of 
the  population  flowered  during  the  second  week 
in  May,  1994. 

Nurse  plants  were  mainly  blue  grama  and 
broom  snakeweed.  Some  individuals  were  in  open 
areas  surrounded  by  bare  soil  or  rocks  with  the 
rocks  acting  as  protection.  Two  exposed  plants 
had  been  run  over  by  a  trials  bike,  but  had  not 
died.  These  were  transplanted  approximately  3 
meters  away  from  the  bike  trail. 
Age  classes  were  not  calculated,  but  based  on 
diameters  and  heights,  seedlings  were  presumably 
0.2-0.4  cm  in  diameter  and  0.1-1.5  cm  in  height, 
whereas  large  adults  were  2.6-5.0  cm  in  diameter 
and  3.1-7.5  cm  in  height.  The  large  adults  were 
presumed  to  be  5  years  old  or  older.  Flowering 
begins  to  occur  on  plants  that  are  0.7-1.5  cm  in 
size. 


Table  1.  The  population  was  divided  into  5  size  classes 
based  on  top  diameters  and  4  classes  based  on  height. 


Size  Class  No.  of  Individuals      Percent  Connp. 


Based  on  Top  Diameters: 

0.2-0.4  cm  18  15 

0.5-1.0  cm  23  19 

1.1-1.9  cm  35  29 

2.0-  2.5  cm  33  27 
2.6-5.0  cm  12  10 

Based  on  Height: 

0.1-1.5  cm  20  16 

1.6-2.4  cm  42  35 

2.5-3.0  cm  45  37 

3.1-  7.5  cm  14  12 


Conclusions 

The  population  of  grama  grass  cactus  should 
be  monitored  annually  during  May  (flowering) 
and  re-mapped  every  5  years  (minimum).  The  area 
is  now  restricted  for  trial  bikes  and  other  off-road 
use,  but  livestock  continues  to  graze  the  area.  The 
ecological  site  condition  is  mid-seral  and  the  range 
trend  is  stable  or  static  to  slightly  upward.  The 
grama  grass  cactus  is  a  species  that  requires  more 
open  sites,  where  grasses  are  the  dominant  cover 
and  it  is  reasonable  to  assume  that  the  species 
population  is  less  now  than  before  the  advent  of 
livestock. 

The  planetable  mapping  procedures  and 
measurements  take  only  one  6-hour  day  to  com- 
plete and  can  be  done  efficiently  with  two  people. 
This  method  should  be  considered  where  popu- 
lations are  fairly  dense  and  not  too  scattered  or 
variable. 

Literature  Cited 

Benson  L.  1961.  A  revision  and  amplification  of  Pedio- 
cactiis  II.  Cactus  and  Succulent  Journal  34:17-19. 

Brinker,  R.C.  and  P.R.  Wolf  1977.  Elementary  Surveying, 
6th  Ed.  Harper  and  Row,  New  York. 

Fletcher,  R.A.,  New  Mexico  Native  Plants  Protection 
Advisory  Committe  (NMNPPAC).  1984.  A  Hand- 
book of  Rare  and  Endemic  Plants  of  New  Mexico, 
pp.  120-121.  University  of  New  Mexico  Press,  Albu- 
querque. 

Fletcher,  R.  A.  and  W.  Moir  1993.  Pediocactiis  papyracan- 
thus.  Passenger  pigeon  of  plants?  Proceedings  of  the 
Southwestern  Rare  and  Endangered  Plant  Confer- 
ence, pp.  151-161.  Miscellaneous  Publication  No.  2  of 
the  New  Mexico  Forestry  and  Resources  Conserva- 
tion Division,  Energy,  Minerals  and  Natural  Re- 
sources, Santa  Fe. 


249 


Knight,  P.J.  1983.  A  survey  for  rare,  threatened  and 
endangered  species  of  plants  on  select  portions  of 
BLM  lands  in  Sandoval  and  Torrance  counties  in 
New  Mexico.  Bureau  of  Land  Mamangement,  Albu- 
querque. 7  pp. 

Peddie,  W.A.  1993.  New  Mexico  Vegetation,  Past,  Pres- 
ent and  Future.  University  of  New  Mexico  Press, 
Albuquerque.  194  pp. 

Sivinski,  R.  and  K.  Lightfoot  1994.  Status  summary  for 
the  grama  grass  cactus  {Toumeya  papyracantha),  pp.  1- 
12.  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Region  2  Office, 
Albuquerque,  New  Mexico. 


USDA,  Soil  Conservation  Service  1987.  Classification 
and  correlation  of  the  soils  of  Sandoval  County  area. 
New  Mexico.  Unpublished  manuscript,  pp.  75  and 
249.  SCS,  West  National  Technical  Center,  Portland, 
Oregon. 

Woodward,  L.A.  and  R.L.  Ruetschilling  1976.  Geology 
of  San  Ysidro  Quadrangle,  New  Mexico.  Geologic 
Map  37,  New  Mexico  Bureau  of  Mines  and  Mineral 
Resources,  Socorro. 


250 


Inventory  and  Monitoring  of  Giant  Four-wing  Saltbush, 
Little  Sahara  Recreation,  Area,  Juab  County,  Utah 

ALYCE  M.HREHA 

Red  Butte  Garden  &  Arboretum,  18A  de  Trobriand  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84113-5044. 

Abstract:  We  have  been  studying  the  giant  four-wing  saltbush  {Atriplex  canescens  var.  gigan- 
tea),  a  Great  Basin  endemic,  on  BLM  lands  since  1992.  Shrub  distribution  has  been  delineated 
on  four  scanned  USGS  quadrangles.  In  1994,  20  transects  were  established  within  the  dunes 
to  inventory  population  parameters  such  as  shrub  density,  age,  male/female  ratios,  growth, 
vigor,  damage,  and  mortality.  Shrub  communities  on  active  as  well  as  stable  dunes  were 
studied.  In  general,  plants  appear  vigorous  and  healthy,  but  no  seedlings  were  observed 
during  the  inventory.  Shrub  damage  from  all-terrain  vehicles  is  light  (22%)  and  mortality  is 
low  (9%)  within  the  communities  sampled.  Permanent  monitoring  plots  were  established 
during  1995  in  areas  of  high  visitor  use  to  track  population  trends.  Threats  to  the  species  and 
population  viability  will  be  assessed  annually.  Species  conservation  and  habitat  management 
strategies  will  be  developed. 


Introduction 

The  giant  four-wing  saltbush  {Atriplex  canes- 
cens (Pursh)  Nutt.  var.  gigantea  Welsh  &  Stutz),  a 
federally  proposed  category  2  species,  is  a  relict 
Great  Basin  endemic  that  appears  to  be  restricted 
to  the  Jericho  Sand  Dunes  near  Lynndyl,  Juab 
County,  Utah  (Welsh  et  al.  1993).  The  Jericho 
Dunes  (Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area),  which 
provide  habitat  for  the  shrub,  are  administered  by 
the  Richfield  BLM  District  as  part  of  the  House 
Range  Resource  Area. 

This  rare  shrub  occurs  most  often  on  the  lee- 
ward side  of  active  dunes  (Stutz  et  al.  1975,  Welsh 
et  al.  1993)  and  less  frequently  in  the  relatively 
stabilized  interdunal  valleys  (swales)  with  other 
sand-tolerant  species  (Hreha  and  Meyer  1993). 
Several  dead  and  damaged  shrubs  were  observed 
in  areas  of  high  visitor  use  at  White  Sands  Camp- 
ground, Jericho  Picnic  Area  and  Sand  Mountain 
(Hreha  and  Meyer  1993).  Damage  to  and  mortality 
of  A.  canescens  var.  gigantea  within  these  sand  dune 
plant  communities  may  be  attributable  to  all 
terrain  vehicles  (ATVs)  and  firewood  collection 
(Peterson  and  Muhlestein  1973,  Stutz  1979,  Hreha 
and  Meyer  1993).  Disease  pathogens  may  contrib- 
ute to  shrub  mortality. 

Further  field  research  was  required  to  provide 
additional  information  to  assess  the  population 
viability  of  the  species  in  order  to  protect  this 
species  from  threats  associated  with  recreational 
activities.  A  conservation  strategy  will  be  devel- 
oped for  the  plant  using  data  gathered  from  in- 
ventorying population  parameters  and  monitoring 
plots  to  annually  track  population  trends  and 
threats  to  the  species. 


Project  Objectives 

The  main  objective  of  the  project  is  to  inven- 
tory population  parameters  of  A.  canescens  var. 
gigantea,  such  as  mean  shrub  height  and  diameter, 
density,  percent  cover,  male /female  ratio,  repro- 
ductive age  classes,  vigor,  damage,  and  mortality. 
The  data  will  be  used  to  assess  the  population's 
viability  and  to  aid  in  the  selection  of  areas  where 
monitoring  plots  need  to  be  located.  Future  objec- 
tives include  setting  up  monitoring  plots  to  assess 
population  trends  and  threats  to  the  species  and 
developing  a  conservation  strategy  for  the  species. 

Methods 
Population  Inventory 
Twenty  transects  (7.5  m  width  x  150  m  length) 
were  established  (Figure  1)  during  October,  1994, 
to  collect  population  data  in  areas  of  high  visitor 
use  at  White  Sands  Campground,  Jericho  picnic- 
campground  area.  Sand  Mountain,  and  northwest 
of  Tanner  Creek.  Transects  were  located  within  A. 
canescens  var.  gigantea  (shrub)  stands  and  were 
positioned  to  sample  as  much  variation  within 
these  plant  communities  as  possible.  Transect 
placement  was  limited  by  accessibility  to  the 
dunes;  most  transects  were  located  along  the 
periphery  of  the  dune  field  in  areas  accessible  by 
four-wheel  drive  vehicles.  We  had  intended  to 
locate  some  transects  within  the  interior  of  the 
dune  field,  but  the  terrain  limits  access  except  with 
ATVs,  which  were  unavailable  until  late  in  the 
1994  field  season.  We  were  able  to  study  shrub 
communities  within  the  interior  of  the  dunes 
during  the  spring  of  1995  with  the  aid  of  BLM 
personnel  stationed  at  Little  Sahara. 


251 


> 


252 


Transect  starting  points  and  end  points  were 
marked  with  surveyor's  stakes.  A  150  m  tape  was 
used  to  measure  transect  length.  Transects  were 
divided  into  three  50  m  segments  and  each  seg- 
ment was  characterized  as  either  active  dune  or 
stabilized  swale.  Segment  characterization  was 
subjective  and  difficult  in  some  cases.  In  general, 
areas  with  sloping,  moving  sand  and  low  plant 
densities  were  characterized  as  active  and  rela- 
tively flat  areas  with  dense  plant  cover  were 
characterized  as  stable. 

Sixty  50  m  segments  were  tallied  along  the  20 
transects.  A  compass  was  used  to  position  each 
transect  along  a  selected  compass  heading  (north  = 
0  degrees,  east  =  90  degrees,  south  =  180  degrees, 
west  =  270  degrees).  The  tape  was  laid  out  along 
the  compass  heading  for  the  entire  length  of  the 
transect. 

The  site  number,  date,  location,  township  and 
range  coordinates,  and  associated  plant  species 
were  recorded  at  each  transect  site.  Plant  nomen- 
clature follows  that  of  Welsh  et  al.  (1993).  Transect 
orientation  (aspect)  was  recorded  by  using  a 
compass.  Depth  of  each  swale  (dune  height)  was 
estimated  for  each  transect  by  measuring  the 
distance  from  bottom  to  top  of  the  swale  (dune) 
with  a  measuring  tape  and  using  an  angle  finder 
for  slope  degree. 

All  giant  four-wing  saltbush  shrubs  that 
occurred  within  the  transect  boimdaries  were  sam- 
pled. Shrub  height  and  diameter  were  measured 
with  a  meter  stick.  Male  and  female  individuals 
were  tallied  and  their  ratio  was  calculated.  Repro- 
ductive age  class  (seedling,  juvenile,  mature, 
senescent)  and  vigor  classes  (excellent,  good,  fair, 
poor)  were  recorded  for  each  shrub  encountered 
along  the  transect. 

Shrub  damage  (amount  and  type)  and  mortal- 
ity (probable  cause)  were  assessed  at  each  transect. 
Shrub  damage  was  characterized  as  the  number  of 
broken  branches  per  shrub  and  the  number  of 
prostrate  shrubs.  Shrub  mortality  consisted  of  per- 
cent of  dead  branches  (<25%,  >25%,  >50%,  >75%  ) 
per  shrub  and  number  of  dead  shrubs. 

Shrub  densities  were  calculated  by  dividing 
the  number  of  shrubs  per  unit  area  of  each 
transect.  Percent  shrub  cover  was  calculated  by 
dividing  the  total  area  occupied  by  shrubs  by  the 
total  area  of  each  transect. 

Photographs  at  the  starting  point  or  end  point 
of  each  transect  were  taken  to  illustrate  methodol- 
ogy, to  show  relative  size  and  appearance  of  the 
shrubs  in  their  habitat,  and  to  document  threats. 


Population  Viability  Analysis 

Population  viability  was  determined  from  the 
data  gathered  in  the  population  inventory  at  the  20 
transect  sites.  Data  sets  on  shrub  growth  (height 
and  diameter),  male /female  sex  ratio,  juvenile/ 
reproductively  mature  shrub  ratio,  vigor,  damage, 
and  mortality  were  analyzed  and  used  to  draw 
viability  conclusions. 

Monitoring  Plots 

Monitoring  plots  (100  x  100  m)  were  set  up 
during  the  1995  field  season  at  four  heavily  used 
sites  within  the  Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area 
(White  Sands  campground,  Jericho  picnic  area. 
Sand  Mountain,  and  Tanner  Creek)  to  monitor 
shrub  growth,  reproduction,  and  vigor,  as  well  as 
to  assess  shrub  damage  and  mortality  trends. 
Efforts  were  taken  to  select  monitoring  plots  with 
similar  elevation,  orientation,  interdunal  valley 
(swale)  depth  or  dune  height,  and  plant  commu- 
nity characteristics. 

Plot  corners  were  marked  with  tall  survey 
stakes  and  located  within  the  crowns  of  the  shrubs 
to  avoid  detection  and  potential  disturbance  by 
recreationalists  (Bagley  1988).  Plot  locations  were 
recorded,  photographed,  and  referenced  to  some 
stable  facility  (i.e.,  restrooms  or  roads  within  the 
area).  Compass  bearings  from  the  reference  point 
and  distances  to  the  northeastern  corner  of  the 
plots  were  calculated.  Plot  coordinates  were  re- 
corded using  a  Trimble  navigation  GPS  unit. 

All  giant  four-wing  saltbushes  were  tagged 
and  numbered  so  that  individual  shrub  growth, 
damage,  and  mortality  could  be  monitored.  The 
same  information  collected  in  the  population  in- 
ventory was  recorded  for  each  shrub  within  the 
plot.  Population  trends  and  threats  to  the  species 
are  assessed  annually. 

The  dune  was  characterized  as  active  or  stable 
under  each  giant  saltbush  within  the  plot.  Dune 
activity/stability  was  correlated  with  shrub 
growth,  vigor,  damage,  mortality,  and  threats.  In 
addition,  sand  height  was  marked  on  the  corner 
stakes  of  each  plot  so  that  sand  movement  (rise  or 
fall  in  height)  could  be  monitored.  Results  of  a  3- 
year  monitoring  study  (1995-97)  wiU  be  submitted 
to  the  Utah  State  BLM  Office  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

Data  Analysis 

Means  were  calculated  for  all  population 
parameters  studied.  Vigor,  damage,  and  mortality 
were  correlated  with  active  and  stable  dune  areas 


253 


along  the  transects.  Conclusions  were  drawn  as  to 
the  growth,  vigor,  viability,  and  threats  to  the 
species. 

Results  and  Discussion 

Transect  Location  and  Orientation 

For  analysis  purposes,  the  Little  Sahara  study 
area  was  divided  into  four  recreational  sites: 
White  Sands,  Jericho,  Sand  Mountain,  and  Tanner 
Creek.  Results  are  presented  by  transect  within 
each  recreational  site. 

Table  1  lists  the  location,  orientation,  dune 
stability,  slope,  and  swale  depth  (dune  height)  of 
each  transect.  Twelve  transects  have  a  north-south 
orientation  and  eight  transects  have  an  east-west 
orientation.  In  most  cases,  we  entered  the  dune- 
field  from  the  eastern  edge  and  walked  north, 
west,  or  south  along  the  transect  line. 

The  dominant  orientation  of  the  dunes  within 
the  dune  field  is  from  southwest  to  northeast  with 
predominant  wind  direction  from  the  southwest 
(Sack  1981).  Plant  communities  inhabiting  the 
somewhat  protected  interdunal  valleys  of  the 
dune  field  are  well  developed  compared  to  the 
sparse  vegetation  occurring  on  the  windswept 
active  dunes  that  surround  them.  In  general,  plant 
communities  have  a  northwesterly  to  southeast- 
erly orientation  similar  to  the  longitudinal  axis  of 
dune  crests  within  the  dune  field.  However,  at 
dune  intersections,  the  general  dune  orientation 
pattern  from  northwest  to  southeast  is  disrupted, 
resulting  in  plant  communities  that  sometimes 
have  east-west  orientations. 

According  to  Stutz  et  al.  (1975)  and  Welsh  et 
al.  (1993),  giant  four-wing  saltbushes  prefer  the 
leeward  side  of  active  dunes.  Hreha  and  Meyer 
(1993)  also  found  many  giant  saltbushes  concen- 
trated at  the  leeward  bases  of  active  dunes  near 
the  edges  of  swales. 

Dune  Activity /Stability 

The  number  of  active  versus  stable  dune  seg- 
ments sampled  was  similar  along  the  20  transects. 
Of  the  60  dune  segments  sampled,  26  were  char- 
acterized as  active  and  34  were  characterized  as 
stable  (Table  1).  Sack  (1981)  characterized  64 
percent  of  the  dune  field  as  active  dunes  and  36 
percent  as  stable  or  semi-stabilized  dunes. 

Slope  (Degrees)  and  Swale 
Depth  (Dune  Height) 

Slope  steepness  was  divided  into  two  widely 
distributed  categories.  In  general,  stable  swales 
(transects  2,  10,  11,  12,  16,  17,  18  and  20)  had  rela- 


tively flat  slopes  (0-5  degrees)  while  active  dunes 
(transects  1,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 13, 14, 15  and  19)  had 
steep  (30-35  degrees)  slopes  (Table  1).  Swale  depth 
ranged  from  0  to  36.5  m,  with  a  mean  swale  depth 
of  8.4  m.  Sack  (1981)  reported  active  dune  heights 
(or  swale  depths)  of  2-61  m. 

Associated  Plant  Species 

Table  2  lists  the  plant  species  that  occur  with 
A.  canescens  var.  gigantea .  The  two  most  abundant 
plant  species  occurring  along  18  transects  each 
were  cheatgrass  {Bromus  tectorum  L.)  and  Russian 
thistle  {Salsola  pestifer  A.  Nels.).  These  two  weedy 
species  seem  to  have  ubiquitous  distributions  on 
both  active  and  stabilized  dunes. 

Active  dunes  support  Indian  rice  grass  {Stipa 
hymenoides  R.  &  S.),  the  legume  Psoralidium  lanceo- 
latum  (Pursh)  Rydb.,  sand  verbena  (Abronia  fra- 
grans  Nutt.  ex  Hook.),  dock  {Rumex  venosus  Pursh), 
and  pale  evening  primrose  {Oenothera  pallida 
Lindl.).  Indian  rice  grass  was  present  on  13  tran- 
sects and  the  legume  was  present  on  11  transects. 
Sand  sunflower  [Helianthus  anomalus  Blake)  was 
present  on  eight  transects.  Sand  verbena  (occur- 
ring on  three  transects),  dock  (occurring  on  three 
transects),  and  pale  evening  primrose  (occurring 
on  four  transects)  abundances  were  low  (Table  2). 
All  of  the  above-mentioned  plant  species  that 
grow  on  active  dunes  help  to  stabilize  them. 
Psoralidium  lanceolatum,  Abronia  fragrans,  and 
Rumex  venosus  all  have  long,  thick  rhizomes  that 
are  adapted  to  sand  dune  habitats. 

Utah  Juniper  (Juniperus  osteosperma  (Torr.) 
Little),  big  sagebrush  {Artemisia  tridentata  Nutt.), 
greasewood  {Sarcobatus  vermiculatus  (Hook.)  Torr. 
in  Emory)  and  rubber  rabbitbrush  {Chrysothamnus 
nauseosus  (Pallas)  Britt.)  are  most  often  associated 
with  stabilized  dunes  and  swales.  Rabbitbrush 
was  observed  on  half  (10)  of  the  transects  (Table 
2).  It  appears  to  occur  at  the  edge  of  swales  along 
leeward  dune  margins  as  well  as  out  in  the  center 
of  swales.  The  other  three  species  associated  with 
stabilized  dune  areas  were  low  in  abundance 
(Table  2).  Also  see  Appendix-Flora  and  Fauna  of 
the  Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area  (p.  38)  in  Hreha 
and  Meyer  (1993). 

Shrub  Density  and  Percent  Cover 

Tables  3-5  list  the  results  of  the  population  in- 
ventory by  transect.  A  total  of  178  plants  (162  live 
/16  dead)  were  tallied  in  the  20  transects  (Table  3). 
Shrub  densities  were  0-33  plants  along  the  tran- 
sects, which  were  367  square  meters  (3.67  hectares) 
each.  Mean  shrub  density  was  8.9  shrubs  per  tran- 


254 


Table  1.  Transect  location,  orientation,  dune  stability,  slope,  and  swale  depth  (dune  height). 


Site 

Transect 

Dune* 

Slope 

Swale  Depth 

No. 

Location 

Orientation 

Stability 

(degrees) 

(feet) 

3 

South  White  Sands  Campground 

205 

N-S 

A-A-S 

35 

27.5 

4 

South  White  Sands  Campground 

200 

N-S 

S-S-S 

30 

37.5 

7 

Southwest  White  Sands  Campground 

?60 

F-W 

J_f   V  V 

A-A-A 

35 

35 

0 

DOUtnwebl  VVllKc  DaIiU.b     alliUgl UUIIU. 

160 

N-S 

A-A-A 

r\  t\  r\ 

19 

Northeast  Jericho  Campground 

40 

N-S 

A-A-A 

30 

17.5 

on 

iNortneasL  jericno  v^ampgrouna 

270 

E-W 

Q  Q  Q 

D  D 

n 

5 

Northwest  Jericho  Campground 

210 

N-S 

A-A-A 

35 

17.5 

c. 

D 

iXUrillWcbl  JcilCllU  V^dlllUgl UUllU. 

280 

E-W 

J  J  J 

97  R 

1 

Jericho  Picnic  Area 

15 

N-S 

S-A-A 

30 

35 

250 

E-W 

A-A-A 

xT.  ii.  T\ 

1^ 

<j 

17 

North  Sand  Mountain  Campground 

20 

N-S 

S-S-S 

5 

iO 

i\OrLll  DdllU.  iViUUIlld.111  V^dllipglULlllU. 

270 

E-W 

S-S-S 

13 

West  Sand  Mountain  Campground 

270 

E-W 

S-A-A 

35 

80 

14 

West  Sand  Mountain  Campground 

340 

N-S 

S-A-A 

30 

30 

15 

South  Sand  Mountain  Campground 

270 

E-W 

A-A-S 

35 

120 

16 

South  Sand  Mountain  Campground 

360 

N-S 

S-S-A 

0 

— 

9 

Northwest  Tanner  Creek 

200 

N-S 

S-S-S 

30 

20 

10 

Northwest  Tanner  Creek 

140 

N-S 

S-S-S 

0 

11 

Northwest  Tanner  Creek 

240 

E-W 

S-S-S 

0 

12 

Northwest  Tanner  Creek 

350 

N-S 

S-S-S 

0 

Totals 

12 

N-S 

26  A 

8  (0-5) 

0-120  ft 

8 

E-W 

34S 

12(30-35) 

(0-36.5  m) 

*A  =  Active,  S  =  Stable  (Segments  1-2-3). 


sect.  Densities  were  similar  on  active  (2.68  plants/ 
50  m  segment)  and  stable  (3.13  plants/50  m  seg- 
ment) dunes.  Giant  saltbush  cover  on  average  was 
about  10  percent  of  the  transect  area. 

Male  to  Female  Shrub  Ratios  and 
Juvenile  to  Mature  Shrub  Ratios 

The  male  to  female  shrub  ratio  (Table  3)  was 
79:83  (49%/51%)  or  1:1  as  reported  by  Stutz  et  al. 
(1975).  Although  we  observed  male  and  female 
shrubs  growing  adjacent  to  one  another  on  a  few 
of  the  transects,  shrub  distribution  according  to 
sex  does  not  appear  to  be  random.  Males  were 
observed  more  often  on  active  dune  sites  while 
females  were  observed  more  often  on  stable  sites 
in  the  swales.  Males  may  be  better  adapted  to  the 
more  unstable  habitats  along  dune  margins,  while 
females  may  be  somewhat  restricted  to  the  more 


stable  sites  in  the  swales.  In  general,  energy 
expended  by  male  plants  for  reproductive  output 
appears  less  than  that  expended  by  females,  which 
produce  an  abundance  of  large  seeds  (Stutz  et  al. 
1975). 

The  juvenile  to  mature  shrub  ratio  was  20:142 
shrubs  or  12%/88%  (Table  3).  We  observed  20 
plants  during  the  survey,  which  we  assumed  were 
juveniles.  There  was  no  way  to  determine  if  the 
plants  tallied  as  juveniles  were  really  young  indi- 
viduals, or  rather  shoots  arising  from  nearby 
mature  shrubs,  without  excavating  the  roots  of 
each  juvenile  plant.  When  roots  from  juvenile 
shrubs  growing  on  dune  margins  were  excavated, 
they  appeared  to  be  connected  (clonal  in  origin)  to 
roots  of  a  larger  mature  shrub  growing  adjacent  to 
them.  However,  we  did  not  excavate  roots  of 
juvenile  shrubs  that  were  growing  in  the  swales. 


255 


Table  2.  Associated  species  list. 


Species  Transects  Present  Total 


2 


4 

10 
1 
1 
2 
2 


3 

8 
2 
4 

11 
18 
3 


18 
13 


Table  3.  Male/female  and  juvenile/mature  shrub  ratios. 


No. 

Male: 

Juvenile: 

Plants  per 

Female 

Mature 

Site  No. 

Transect 

Ratio 

Ratio 

3 

5 

1/4 

0/5 

4 

8 

2/5 

0/7 

7 

7 

5/2 

0/7 

8 

2 

1/1 

0/2 

19 

5 

1/4 

0/5 

20 

0 

5 

10 

5/5 

0/10 

6 

25 

14/11 

5/20 

1 

20 

8/11 

2/17 

2 

4 

3/1 

0/4 

17 

7 

2/4 

0/6 

18 

0 

13 

4 

2/2 

0/4 

14 

4 

3/0 

2/1 

15 

10 

7/3 

1/9 

16 

6 

1/5 

0/6 

9 

33 

15/10 

6/19 

10 

12 

3/5 

0/8 

11 

4 

1/3 

0/4 

12 

12 

5/7 

4/8 

Totals 

178 

79/83 

20/142 

We  did  not  observe  any  shrub  seedlings  dur- 
ing our  inventory.  The  fact  that  no  seedlings  were 
observed  is  a  cause  for  concern.  If  all  the  plants 
that  were  observed  are  mature  and  no  seedlings 
are  germinating,  it  might  mean  that  the  species  is 
in  trouble.  However,  iii  this  type  of  environment, 
particularly  on  sand  dunes,  vegetative  reproduc- 
tion is  highly  adaptable  to  the  site  and  has  been 
documented  as  the  preferred  means  of  reproduc- 
tion (Abrahamson  1980,  Pye  and  Tsoar  1990, 
Urbanska  1990).  Plant  species  adapted  to  sand 
dune  habitats  use  a  combination  of  reproductive 
strategies  in  order  to  ensure  success.  These  species 
colonize  sites  with  seeds  (sexual  reproduction) 
and  quickly  become  established  with  various 
means  (rhizomes)  of  vegetative  reproduction 
(Urbanska  1990). 

Weathered  seeds,  collected  in  the  fall  (1993) 
from  beneath  shrubs,  germinate  readily  in  soil  mix 
in  the  greenhouse.  It  is  not  understood  why 
seedlings  were  not  observed  in  the  field.  Perhaps 
germination  inhibitors  were  not  leached  from  the 
seeds  in  the  field  (see  Hreha  and  Meyer  1993  for 
further  discussion). 

Field  germination  in  the  giant  four-wing  salt- 
bush  may  be  triggered  by  certain  climatic  factors 
(Stutz  et  al.  1975),  especially  temperature  and 
moisture  (Larcher  1980).  Perhaps  warm  tempera- 
tures during  mild  winters  inhibit  field  germination 
in  spring,  or  seeds  may  germinate  only  after  ade- 
quate precipitation  is  received  in  the  dunes  during 
the  cooler  months  of  autumn.  We  observed  field 
germination  during  the  fall  in  many  of  the  sand- 
tolerant  species  associated  with  A.  canescens  var. 
gigantea.  In  general,  plants  time  their  germination 
to  coincide  with  seasonal  storm  patterns  that 
usually  deliver  adequate  moisture  for  germination 
(Larcher  1980).  However,  Stutz  et  al.  (1975)  also 
reported  that  reduced  germination  in  this  species 
is  probably  due  to  genetic  differences. 

Shrub  Growth  and  Vigor 

Mean  shrub  height  was  1.4  m  and  diameter 
was  3.0  m  (Table  4).  Shrub  diameter  was  observed 
to  be  approximately  twice  the  height.  The  large 
average  size  of  the  shrubs  encountered  in  the 
inventory  may  indicate  that  most  of  the  shrubs 
that  were  sampled  are  mature  individuals. 

No  attempt  was  made  to  count  the  number  of 
branches  or  stems  per  plant.  However,  shrubs 
were  observed  to  have  about  6-15  stems  per  plant. 

Vigor  was  high:  41  (25%)  shrubs  had  excellent 
vigor,  66  (41%)  shrubs  had  good  vigor,  41  (25%) 
shrubs  had  fair  vigor,  and  only  14  (9%)  shrubs  had 


Trees 

luYlitlPTU'^  O'^tPO^TlFTTnd 

imitL/s^l  1/%-J     L/ 1 L/ L/ /  1  1  lv\ 

11, 12 

Shrubs 

Artemisia  tridentata 

10, 11, 12, 17 

Chrysothamnus  nauseosus 

1,  3,  4,  6,  7,  9, 10, 

11, 14,  20 

Gutierrezia  sarothrae 

12 

Leptodactylon  pungens 

12 

Eriogonum  corymhosum 

1, 13 

Sarcobatus  vermiculatus 

17, 18 

Forbs 

Abronia  fragrans 

10, 13, 16 

Helianthus  anomalus 

1,  2,  5,  7,  8, 13, 

14, 19 

Linum  perenne 

4,6 

Oenotliera  pallida 

1,  5,  6, 10 

Psoralidiiim  lanceolatum 

1,  3,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9, 13, 

15, 16, 19 

Salsola  pestifer 

all  except  10  &12 

Rumex  venosus 

2, 17, 18 

Grasses 

Bromus  tectorum 

all  except  2  &  8 

Stipa  hymenoides 

1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  9, 

13, 14, 15, 19,  20 


256 


Table  4.  Shrub  height,  diameter,  and  vigor. 


Vigor  Classes 

Height  Diameter   

Site  No.  (inches)  (inches)  Exc.  Good  Fair  Poor 


3 
4 
7 
8 

19 
20 

5 

6 

1 

2 

17 
18 
13 
14 
15 
16 

9 
10 
11 
12 

Totals 


67.6 
73.4 
53.3 
54.0 

61.2 

60.2 
62.7 
53.8 
58.3 

40.8 

54.3 
50.3 
40.6 
49.0 

52.1 
59.6 
46.8 
39.3 

1.4  m* 
(4.5  ft)* 


160.6 
113.1 
171.6 
206.5 

238.6 

225.9 
114.2 
99.8 
109.5 

147.2 

116.3 
63.3 
109.2 
129.8 

107.0 
125.5 
111.5 
50.1 

3.0  m* 
(10.0  ft)^ 


2 
3 


4 
3 
7 
3 


3 
3 

2 
1 
2 
1 

41 
25 


2 
2 
3 
1 


3 
17 
8 
1 


1 
3 
1 


2 
2 
1 

10 
3 
2 
8 

66 
41 


2 
1 
2 


13 
4 


41 

25 


3 
2 


14  (plants) 

9  (%) 


*Mean,  n  =  20. 


poor  vigor  (Table  4).  Plant  vigor  was  recorded  as 
poor  if  plants  had  small  leaves,  chlorotic  leaves,  or 
sparse  foliage.  In  general,  most  plants  seemed 
healthy  and  vigorous.  We  observed  that  plants 
drop  about  half  of  their  leaves  at  the  end  of  the 
growing  season. 

Shrub  Damage  and  Mortality 

Shrub  damage  was  light,  with  22  percent  (35 
shrubs)  of  the  population  affected  (Table  5).  Of  the 
35  damaged  shrubs,  17  shrubs  had  broken 
branches.  Shrubs  with  broken  branches  had  an 
average  of  4.4  broken  branches  per  plant.  Four  of 
the  17  shrubs  with  broken  branches  had  been  run 
over  by  ATVs  (tire  tracks  were  observed  in  the 
sand  next  to  these  plants). 

The  causes  of  other  broken  branches  were  not 
evident;  however,  many  thick  branches  seem  to 
break  when  they  are  not  supported  by  sand.  In  the 
stabilized  swales,  female  shrubs  appear  to  grow 


and  produce  seed  for  many  years,  but  as  these 
plants  get  larger  and  bulkier,  the  heavier  branches 
are  prone  to  break  under  their  own  weight. 

We  observed  18  prostrate  shrubs  with 
collapsed  branches  radiating  from  their  centers. 
Sixty  percent  of  these  prostrate  shrubs  were 
females  and  40  percent  were  males.  Maybe,  in 
years  of  high  seed  production,  female  shrubs  are 
more  prone  to  breakage  than  males.  However, 
broken  branches  may  result  most  often  from  large 
plant  size  and  senescence  rather  than  from  addi- 
tional weight  from  seed  production  as  observed  in 
females. 

Another  35  shrubs  (22%  of  the  population) 
had  dead  branches.  Of  the  35  shrubs  with  dead 
branches,  10  shrubs  had  less  than  25  percent  dead 
branches,  11  shrubs  had  more  than  25  percent 
dead  branches,  6  shrubs  had  more  than  50  percent 
dead  branches,  and  8  shrubs  had  more  than  75 
percent  dead  branches. 


257 


Table  5.  Shrub  damage  and  mortality  assessment. 


No.  of 

Dead 

Dead 

Site  No. 

Plants 

Damage* 

Branches 

Shrubs 

3 

5 

1 

1 

0 

4 

8 

1 

3 

1 

7 

7 

0 

3 

0 

8 

2 

1 

1 

0 

19 

5 

0 

0 

0 

20 

0 

0 

0 

0 

5 

10 

3 

2 

0 

6 

25 

1 

2 

0 

1 

4 

/ 

1 

i 

2 

4 

1 

1 

0 

17 

7 

6 

5 

1 

18 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1  "2 

/I 

4 

U 

U 

U 

14 

4 

1 

0 

1 

15 

10 

6 

3 

0 

16 

6 

4 

1 

0 

9 

33 

5 

3 

8 

10 

12 

1 

3 

4 

11 

4 

0 

0 

0 

12 

12 

0 

0 

0 

Totals 

178 

35 

35 

16 

(%) 

22 

22 

9 

*Number  of  shrubs  with  either  broken  or  prostrate  branches. 


The  lower  branches  around  the  periphery  of 
the  giant  four-wing  saltbush  shrubs  seem  to  die 
out  before  the  upper  branches  in  the  center  of  the 
shrub.  This  die-off  of  lower  branches  may  be  due 
to  the  lack  of  light.  After  the  branches  die,  they 
turn  grayish  black  from  weathering. 

Mortality  (Table  5)  was  low  at  9  percent  (16 
dead  plants).  Many  shrubs  appear  to  have  been 
dead  for  quite  some  time  and  the  cause  of  their 
death  could  not  be  determined.  Dead  shrubs  had 
an  average  height  of  0.9  m  and  diameter  of  3.5  m. 
This  supports  normal  mortality  patterns:  larger 
senescent  shrubs  are  more  likely  to  die  than  smal- 
ler (younger),  more  vigorous  shrubs. 

Plant  Vigor,  Damage  and  Mortality 
on  Active/Stable  Dunes 

Shrub  vigor  (Table  6)  is  higher  on  active  dunes 
compared  to  stable  dunes  (see  Hreha  and  Meyer 
1993,  Figure  25,  p.  31).  Active  dunes  probably 
provide  better  sites  for  growth  compared  to  stable 
swales.  Active  dunes  might  possibly  protect 
shrubs  from  damage  by  supporting  and  covering 
tender  and  succulent  shoots  (Stutz  et  al.  1975). 
Sand  cover  might  also  enhance  moisture  retention. 


On  the  other  hand,  shrubs  growing  on  active 
dunes  (Table  6)  seem  to  be  a  target  for  damage  by 
recreationists  compared  to  those  growing  in 
swales  or  stable  dunes  (see  Hreha  and  Meyer  1993, 
Figures  20  and  21,  p.  24).  Barren  dunes  with  few 
shrubs  (clear  of  vehicular  obstacles)  seem  to  be  the 
most  popular  areas  for  ATVs,  especially  in  the 
Sand  Mountain  area. 

When  the  dunes  move  across  an  area  and 
shrubs  are  exposed,  they  are  prone  to  collapse  (see 
Hreha  and  Meyer  1993,  Figure  24,  p.  26).  The 
weight  of  the  large  unsupported  branches  causes 
them  to  fall  in  a  prostrate  position  radiating  from 
the  center  of  the  shrub.  As  these  old  and  heavy 
branches  weather,  they  very  often  break  off  at  the 
center  of  the  plant  at  about  the  point  from  which 
stems  emerge  from  the  dune  surface.  Plants  with 
prostrate  branches  are  more  prevalent  on  stable 
rather  than  active  dune  areas  (Table  7).  Perhaps 
active  dunes  help  support  the  weight  of  branches 
and  prevent  breakage. 

Shrubs  with  dead  branches  seem  to  be  distrib- 
uted similarly  on  both  active  (16  plants)  and  stable 
(19  plants)  dunes  (Table  7).  Dead  branches,  espe- 
cially at  the  base  of  these  shrubs,  are  probably  a 
normal  part  of  the  growth  cycle  of  the  giant  four- 
wing  saltbush. 

Dead  shrubs  are  almost  entirely  restricted  to 
stable  dune  areas  (94%;  Table  7).  This  may  be  the 
result  of  better  protection  of  their  branches  by 
sand  cover  on  active  dunes.  Shrubs  growing  on 
stable  sites  would  also  be  more  prone  to  desicca- 
tion by  hot  drying  winds. 

Centers  of  Density,  Damage,  and 
Mortality  within  the  Recreation  Area 

The  arm  of  the  sand  dunes  northwest  of 
Tanner  Creek  has  the  highest  shrub  density  (15.3 
shrubs  per  transect)  of  the  four  recreation  sites 
studied.  The  Jericho  picnic-campground  site  has 
an  intermediate  shrub  density  (10.6  plants  per 
transect).  Shrub  densities  at  the  White  Sands  (5.5 
shrubs  per  transect)  and  Sand  Mountain  (5.1 
shrubs  per  transect)  sites  are  similar  (Table  8). 

Sand  Mountain  had  the  highest  number  (17  or 
50%)  of  damaged  shrubs  of  all  the  areas  studied, 
while  the  Jericho  site  had  nine.  Tanner  Creek  had 
six,  and  White  Sands  had  three  damaged  shrubs 
(Table  8).  Sand  Mountain  is  the  center  of  visitor 
activity  within  the  Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area 
and  shrub  damage  would  be  expected  to  be  high- 
est where  visitors  spend  most  of  their  time. 

The  Jericho  site  had  the  highest  number  (12)  of 
shrubs  with  dead  branches.  White  Sands  (8)  and 


258 


Table  6.  Shrub  vigor  on  active  and  stable  dunes. 


Active  Dunes 


Number  of 
Individuals 


Percentage  of  Plants 
in  Active  Dunes 
w/Condition 


Stable  Dunes 


Number  of 
Individuals 


Percentage  of  Plants 
in  Stable  Dunes 
W/Condition 


Vigor 


28 
20 
10 


Excellent 
Good 
Fair 
Poor 


43 
30 
15 
12 


13  Excellent 

46  Good 

31  Fair 

6  Poor 


13 
48 
33 
6 


Table  7.  Plant  damage  and  mortality  on  active  and  stable  dunes. 


Active  Dunes  Stable  Dunes 


Number  of 
Individuals 

Percentage  of  Plants 
in  All  Dunes 
w/Condition 

Number  of 
Individuals 

Percentage  of  Plants 
in  All  Dunes 
w/Condition 

Damaged  shrubs 

Broken  branches 

13 

76 

4 

24 

Prostrate  branches 

4 

22 

14 

78 

Mortality 

Dead  branches 

16 

46 

19 

54 

Dead  shrubs 

1 

6 

15 

94 

Sand  Mountain  (8)  had  similar  numbers  of  shrubs 
with  dead  branches.  Tanner  Creek  had  the  low^est 
(6)  number  of  shrubs  with  dead  branches  (Table 
8). 

Tanner  Creek  had  the  highest  mortality  (12 
shrubs  or  75%).  Shrub  mortalities  at  the  Sand 
Mountain  (two  shrubs).  White  Sands  (one  shrub), 
and  Jericho  (one  shrub)  sites  were  low  (Table  8). 

The  causes  of  dead  branches  at  the  Jericho  area 
and  mortality  in  the  Tanner  Creek  vicinity  were 
not  determinable.  Monitoring  plots  should  be  set 
up  in  both  of  these  areas,  as  well  as  Sand  Moun- 
tain, to  assess  shrub  damage  and  mortality  trends. 

Threats 

The  plants  seem  healthy  and  their  growth  was 
observed  to  be  vigorous,  but  22  percent  are  being 
damaged  by  recreational  activities  within  the 
dunes.  This  concerns  us,  because  as  the  human 
population  rises,  more  pressure  will  be  put  on  this 
area  for  recreation.  As  a  consequence,  the  plant 
population  will  be  even  more  at  risk  and  could 
become  endangered  without  proper  management. 

Pye  and  Tsoar  (1990)  list  several  direct  threats 
to  sand  dune  vegetation  and  habitats  from  recrea- 


tionists.  These  include  picking  and  trampling  of 
vegetation,  increased  risk  of  fire,  physical  erosion 
of  sand  by  passage  of  feet,  wind  funneling  along 
trails,  and  vehicle  tracks  leading  to  blowouts. 
Motorized  vehicles  also  pose  other  threats,  such  as 
direct  crushing  of  aerial  shoots  and  roots  of  plants. 
Tires  can  compact  sand  and  increase  water  repel- 
lence,  which  leads  to  erosion  by  surface  wash.  Ero- 
sion of  dune  surfaces  results  in  reduced  infiltration 
and  increased  drought  damage  to  vegetation  (Pye 
and  Tsoar  1990).  These  types  of  threats  should  be 
monitored  annually. 

We  observed  several  rodent  burrows,  a  few 
mammal  burrows,  a  few  deer  tracks  and  drop- 
pings, and  coyote  feces  in  the  shrub's  habitat. 
Animal  use  of  the  species'  habitat  appears  not  to 
be  threatening  the  population  at  this  time.  Some 
evidence  of  grazing  was  observed  on  these  shrubs. 
Next  year  we  would  like  to  record  the  number  of 
grazed  plants  in  our  monitoring  plots. 

Population  Viability 

Population  viability  assessment  (PVA)  is  rela- 
tively new  to  the  discipline  of  conservation  biol- 
ogy (Shaffer  1981,  Gilpin  and  Soule  1986,  Menges 


259 


Table  8.  Comparison  of  shrub  density,  damage,  and 
mortality  by  recreational  site  at  Little  Sahara  Recreation 
Area,  Juab  County,  Utah. 


Area 

Density-' 

Damage  ^ 

Mortality-^ 

Wliite  Sands 

5.5 

3 

8:1 

Jericho 

10.6 

9 

12:1 

Sand  Mountain 

5.1 

17 

S-2 

Tanner  Creek 

15.3 

6 

6:12 

Mean  number  of  plants  per  transect,  n  =  20. 
Number  of  plants  with  broken  or  prostrate  branches. 
Number  of  plants  with  dead  branches:number  of  dead  plants. 


1986, 1990, 1991,  Boyce  1992).  Most  of  this  research 
has  been  conducted  on  animal  populations 
(Menges  1991,  Boyce  1992).  However,  Menges 
(1986,  1990,  1991)  has  applied  these  research 
techniques  to  assess  the  viability  of  plant  species 
threatened  with  extinction. 

Detailed  long-term  autecological  information 
is  necessary  to  formulate  estimates  of  minimum 
viable  population  numbers  and  to  assess  a  partic- 
ular population's  viability  (Menges  1991).  A 
species'  population  parameters  (demographics), 
ecology,  environment  including  natural  distur- 
bances, and  genetic  characteristics  are  often  ana- 
lyzed when  trying  to  determine  viability.  Future 
threats  to  the  species  are  also  considered.  Some 
researchers  (Boyce  1992)  feel  that  it  is  impossible 
to  determine  population  viability  because  of  all  the 
ecological  factors  and  stochastic  events  involved. 
Basically,  researchers  provide  their  best  educated 
guess  concerning  the  future  survival  of  these  en- 
dangered species.  When  adequate  population  data 
is  available,  the  process  of  conducting  viability 
assessments  is  much  easier. 

Population  viability  for  endangered  plant  spe- 
cies is  usually  determined  by  comparing  recruit- 
ment rates  with  mortality  rates  (Menges  1990).  The 
ideal  situation  would  be  for  recruitment  rates  to  be 
higher  than  mortality  rates  in  these  species. 
Growth,  vigor,  damage,  and  threats  to  the  species 
are  also  studied  and  analyzed. 

Conclusions 

In  general,  the  plants  that  occupy  the  sand 
dunes  seem  healthy  and  vigorous,  but  if  visitor 
use  of  the  site  increases  and  damage  (22%)  to  the 
shrubs  continues,  their  survival  may  be  jeopar- 
dized. Threats  resulting  from  visitor  use  should  be 
monitored  on  an  annual  basis. 

Shrub  mortality  was  low  at  9  percent  this  year. 
Recruitment  may  be  nonexistent  and  shrub  seed- 
lings were  not  observed.  The  giant  four- wing  salt- 


bush  may  be  in  danger  of  extinction  if  it  is  solely 
dependent  on  vegetative  reproduction.  Every 
effort  should  be  taken  to  comb  the  monitoring 
plots  for  seedlings  this  spring.  If  climatic  patterns 
inhibit  germination,  or  if  other  stochastic  events 
should  affect  the  population,  damage  to  individual 
mature  shrubs  may  decrease  population  numbers 
to  a  point  critical  for  survival. 

Acknowledgments 

This  research  was  funded  by  a  challenge  cost- 
share  grant  from  the  Utah  State  Office  of  the  Bu- 
reau of  Land  Management  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
to  Red  Butte  Garden  and  Arboretum  (RBG&A).  I 
appreciate  their  continued  support  of  this  project. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  Therese  Meyer,  Con- 
servation Horticulturist  (RBG&A),  who  has  exper- 
imented with  seed  germination  and  propagation 
of  this  species,  and  Barbara  Soha,  Conservation 
Volunteer  (RBG&A),  for  preparing  Figure  1. 

Literature  Cited 

Abrahamson,  W.G.  1980.  Demography  and  vegetative 
reproduction.  In  O.T.  Solbrig,  editor.  Demography 
and  Evolution  in  Plant  Populations,  pp.  89-106. 
University  of  California  Press,  Berkeley. 

Bagley,  M.  1988.  A  sensitive  plant-monitoring  study  of 
the  Eureka  Dunes,  Inyo  County,  California.  In  C.A. 
Hall  and  V.  Doyle-Jones,  editors.  Plant  Biology  of 
Eastern  California,  pp.  223-243.  Natural  History  of 
the  White-Inyo  Range  Symposium,  Volume  2. 
University  of  California,  White  Mountain  Research 
Station,  Los  Angeles. 

Boyce,  M.S.  1992.  Population  viability  analysis.  Annual 
Review  Ecology  &  Systematics  23:481-506. 

Gilpin,  M.E.  and  M.E.  Soule.  1986.  Minimum  viable 
populations:  Processes  of  species  extinction.  In  M.E. 
Soule,  editor.  Conservation  Biology,  pp.  19-34. 
Sinauer,  Sunderland,  Mass. 

Hreha,  A.M.  and  T.  Meyer.  1993.  Atriplex  canescens  var. 
gigantea,  Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area,  Juab  County, 
Utah.  1992  Utah  BLM  Challenge  Cost  Share  Project 
Summary.  Red  Butte  Garden  and  Arboretum,  Uni- 
versity of  Utah,  Salt  lake  City.  Submitted  to  USDI, 
Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Utah  State  Office,  Salt 
Lake  City,  42  pp. 

Larcher,  W.  1980.  Physiological  Plant  Ecology.  Second 
Edition.  Springer-Verlag,  Berlin,  303  pp. 

Menges,  E.S.  1986.  Predicting  the  future  of  rare  plant 
populations:  Demographic  monitoring  and  model- 
ing. Natural  Areas  Journal  6:13-25. 

Menges,  E.S.  1990.  Population  viability  analysis  for  a 
rare  plant.  Conservation  Biology  4:52-62. 

Menges,  E.S.  1991.  The  application  of  minimum  viable 
population  theory  to  plants.  In  D.A.  Falk  and  K.E. 
Holsinger,  editors.  Genetics  and  Conservation  of 
Rare  Plants,  pp.  45-61.  Oxford  University  Press,  New 


260 


York,  283  pp. 

Peterson,  J.C.  and  G.R.  Muhlestein.  1973.  Environmental 
analysis  report  for  Little  Sahara  Recreation  Area 
complex.  USDI,  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Rich- 
field District,  Utah,  22  pp. 

Pye,  K.  and  H.  Tsoar.  1990.  Aeolian  sand  and  sand 
dunes.  Urwin  Hyman,  London,  396  pp. 

Sack,  D.I.  1981.  Geomorphic  and  grain  size  studies  of  the 
Lynndyl  Dunes,  west-central  Utah.  Masters  thesis. 
University  of  Utah,  Department  of  Geography,  61 
pp. 

Shaffer,  M.L.  1981.  Minimum  population  sizes  for  spe- 
cies conservation.  Bioscience  31:131-134. 

Stutz,  H.C.  1979.  The  meaning  of  "rare"  and  "endan- 
gered" in  the  evolution  of  southwestern  shrubs.  The 
Endangered  Species:  A  Symposium.  Great  Basin 
Naturalist  Memoirs  No.  3:119-128. 


Stutz,  H.C,  J.M.  Melby  and  G.K.  Livingston.  1975.  Evo- 
lutionary studies  of  Atriplex:  A  relic  gigas  diploid 
population  of  Atriplex  canescens.  American  Journal  of 
Botany  62(3):236-245. 

Urbanska,  K.M.  1990.  Biology  of  asexually  reproducing 
plants.  In  S.  Kawano,  editor.  Biological  Approaches 
and  Evolutionary  Trends  in  Plants,  pp.  273-292.  Aca- 
demic Press,  Harcourt  Brace  Jovanovich  Publishers, 
New  York. 

Welsh,  S.L.,  N.D.  Atwood,  S.  Goodrich  and  L.C.  Higgins 
(eds.).  1993.  A  Utah  Flora,  Second  Edition.  Brigham 
Young  University  Printing  Services,  Provo,  Utah,  986 
pp. 


261 


Distribution  and  Biology  of  Trifolium  longipes  subsp. 

neurophyllum  (Greene) 

JUANITA  A.R.  LADYMAN 

The  New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program,  University  of  New  Mexico, 
2500  Yale  Blvd,  SE  Suite  100,  Albuquerque  87131-1091 

Abstract:  Trifolium  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  (Mogollon  clover)  is  designated  category  2  by 
the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  This  report  is  a  precis  of  a  status  assessment  that  was  made 
to  draw^  together  all  known  facts  about  its  biology,  distribution,  and  population  stability.  Mo- 
gollon clover  is  morphologically  distinct,  having  large  heads  and  elongated  trifoliate  leaves. 
It  is  found  between  6500  and  9000  ft  in  permanently,  or  seasonally,  damp  meadows  and  near 
seasonal  or  perennial  streams  in  eastern  Arizona  and  New  Mexico.  The  first  collection  was 
made  in  1903.  Confusion  between  subspecies  pygmaeum  and  subspecies  neurophyllum  has 
occurred.  A  collection  was  made  of  subspecies  reflexum  among  plants  of  subsp.  neurophyllum 
in  Arizona.  Prior  to  this  observation  subspecies  reflexum  has  been  reported  only  north  of  the 
range  of  subspecies  neurophyllum.  Although  it  may  be  locally  abundant,  it  has  been  observed 
relatively  rarely.  It  is  clear  that  moist  meadows  and  undisturbed  stream  banks  are  in  decline 
and  therefore  its  habitat  is  threatened. 


Introduction 

Trifoliimi  longipes  (Nutt.)  subsp.  neurophyllum 
(Greene)  Gillett  has  been  proposed  for  listing  as  an 
endangered  or  threatened  species  and  has  been 
designated  in  category  2  (C2)  by  the  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Service  (Federal  Register  1993).  In  Ari- 
zona it  is  also  designated  category  2  (C2),  a  taxon 
for  which  the  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  has  in- 
sufficient information  to  support  a  proposed  rule 
to  add  the  species  to  the  threatened  and  endan- 
gered species  list  (Rutman  1992).  In  New  Mexico  it 
is  on  "List  2,"  which  is  reserved  for  those  species 
considered  to  be  rare  and /or  subject  to  long-term 
use  or  cumulative  land-use  impacts  and  are  thus 
vulnerable  to  events  that  could  eventually  threaten 
it  with  extinction  or  extirpation  (Sivinski  and 
Lightfoot  1994).  It  is  listed  as  Forest  Service  Sensi- 
tive, Region  3  (Palmer  1991).  For  these  reasons  a 
status  assessment  was  made  and  this  report  out- 
lines the  results  of  this  work.  It  is  hoped  that  this 
information  will  be  useful  to  those  people  working 
with  sensitive  plants  in  the  Southwest  and  to  those 
interested  in  the  Trifolium  genus.  Possibly  the 
unanswered  questions  about  this  plant's  biology, 
genetics,  and  habitat  requirements  will  stimulate 
further  research  efforts. 

History  and  Biology  of  the  Species 

In  the  family  Fabaceae  (Leguminosae),  the 
genus  Trifolium  comprises  approximately  240 
species  that  are  divided  into  16  sections.  Species  of 
Trifolium  are  distributed  throughout  Europe,  west- 
em  Asia ,  North  Africa,  and  western  North  Amer- 


ica. Approximately  85  species  are  native  to  the 
United  States;  about  20  are  endemic  to  South 
America.  The  plants  are  annual,  perennial,  wild, 
and  cultivated.  Many  cultivated  species  with 
origins  outside  the  Americas  are  now  naturalized 
in  the  USA  (Taylor  1980).  Trifolium  longipes  subsp. 
neurophyllum  is  in  the  Lupinaster  section. 

The  first  collection  of  Trifolium  longipes  subsp. 
neurophyllum  was  made  from  the  middle  fork  of 
the  Gila  River  in  the  Mogollon  Mountains,  Socorro 
County,  New  Mexico,  by  O.B.  Metcalfe  in  1903. 
The  specimens  were  given  to  E.L.  Greene  at  the 
Herbarium  at  Notre  Dame  University,  Indiana, 
who  recognized  them  as  a  distinct  species  of  the 
Trifolium  longipes  group,  and  named  it  Trifolium 
neurophyllum  (Greene  1903-1906).  Kearney  and 
Peebles  (1960)  included  the  species  in  the  taxo- 
nomic  key  of  the  Trifoliums  of  Arizona,  remarking 
that  the  large  heads  were  a  very  distinctive  charac- 
teristic. Gillett  (1966, 1969)  reviewed  the  taxonomy 
of  the  species  of  Trifolium  L.  in  the  section  Lupinas- 
ter (Adanson)  Seringe.  He  included  T.  neurophyl- 
lum in  the  T.  longipes  complex  in  his  treatment,  but 
regarded  T.  neurophyllum  as  a  separate  species. 
Martin  and  Hutchins  (1980)  in  the  Flora  of  New 
Mexico  also  included  it  as  a  species  in  their 
taxonomic  key.  Isely  (1980)  reviewed  the  Trifolium 
genus  and  assigned  the  plant  varietal  status,  Tri- 
folium longipes  (Nutt.)  var.  neurophyllum  (Greene) 
Isely,  apparently  in  agreement  with  an  unpub- 
lished thesis  by  Martin  (1943).  In  The  Flora  of  North 
America  it  is  given  as  Trifolium  longipes  (Nutt.) 
subsp.  neurophyllum  (Greene)  Gillett  (Gillett  1993). 


262 


Common  names  are  Mogollon  clover.  White 
Mountains  clover,  and  big  clover. 

Trifolium  species  are  known  as  true  clovers. 
The  technical  description  of  the  species  is  in  Gillett 
(1969)  and  the  Arizona  Game  and  Fish  Depart- 
ment has  provided  a  nontechnical  description 
(1994).  Trifolium  longipes  subspecies  neurophylhini  is 
a  perennial  herb  that  is  generally  14-60  cm  tall,  al- 
though it  can  grow  to  a  height  (length  if  prostrate) 
of  80  cm.  Leaves  are  divided  into  three  leaflets  that 
are  10-35  mm  long,  narrowly  lanceolate,  sharp 
pointed,  and  small  toothed.  The  large  flowers  are 
in  globose  clumps,  the  clumps  on  a  hairy,  leafless, 
bractless  stalk.  The  calyx  is  tubular,  ends  in  long 
teeth,  and  is  distinctively  hairy  (white  villous).  The 
flowers  are  10-20  mm  long  and  purple,  purple- 
white,  or  white.  The  holotype  is  shown  in  Figure  1. 
The  pods  are  1-2  seeded  (although  3-6  have  been 
reported).  It  flowers  in  late  July,  through  August, 
and  into  September  when  field  identification  is 
best  accomplished.  Identification  using  vegetative 
features  alone  can  be  very  difficult. 

Other  species  of  Trifolium  that  may  be  found  in 
the  same  area  are  Trifolium  repens  L.  (white  clover; 
introduced),  Trifolium  pratense  L.  (red  clover;  intro- 
duced), Trifolium  wormskjoldii  var.  wormskjoldii 
Lehm.  [T.fendleri  Greene;  fendler  clover;  native), 
Trifolium  wormskjoldii  Lehm.  var.  arizonicum 
(Greene)  McDerm.  (T.  arizonicum  Greene;  T. 
lacerum  Greene;  native)  and,  in  areas  where  the 
habitat  may  overlap  (e.g.  at  the  conifer/meadow 
interface),  Trifolium  wormskjoldii  var.  longicaule 
Woot.  &  Stand.  (T.  pinetorum  Greene;  woods 
clover;  native).  In  Arizona,  Trifolium  longipes  var. 
pygmaeum  may,  in  some  cases,  share  the  same 
habitat,  although  observations  of  association  with 
the  latter  have  not  been  confirmed.  In  several  past 
instances  herbarium  specimens  of  Trifolium  lo7^gi- 
pes  var.  pygmaeum  have  been  misidentified  as  T. 
neurophyllum.  Another  member  of  the  T.  longipes 
complex,  Trifolium  longipes  var.  reflexum  (A.  Nels.) 
J.  Gillett,  has  been  observed  to  grow  amongst 
Trifolium  longipes  var.  neurophyllum  in  Arizona.  A 
specimen  was  collected  in  1991  that  was  south  of 
the  original  range  (Figure  2).  The  specimen  is 
deposited  at  the  USDA  Forest  Service  Herbarium, 
Albuquerque,  New  Mexico.  This  subspecies  is 
very  similar  to  subspecies  neurophyllum  but  has 
white  flowers  and  does  not  have  the  white  villous 
calyx.  Trifolium  rydbergii  (syn  =  Trifolium  longipes 
var.  reflexum  (A.  Nels.)  J.  Gillett)  is  reported  for 
New  Mexico  but  north  of  the  range  for  subsp.  neu- 
rophyllum (Gillett  1969,  Martin  and  Hutchins  1980). 


Trifolium  species  can  be  self-pollinating,  cross- 
pollinating,  or  both.  In  general,  self-pollinated 
species  have  small  flowers  and  large  flowers  are 
characteristic  of  cross-pollinated  species.  From  this 
generalization  T .  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum 
could  be  a  largely  cross-pollinating  species.  Bum- 
blebees (Bombus  spp.)  are  often  pollinators  for  very 
large  headed  species;  honey  bees  {Apis  mellifera) 
will  be  the  pollen  vector  if  other  pollen  sources  are 
limited.  Precise  vectors  for  var.  neurophyllum  have 
yet  to  be  determined.  T.  longipes  does  not  possess 
the  tripping  mechanism  that  is  found  in  other  spe- 
cies of  clover.  Rhizobium  (specifically  strains  of  R. 
trifolii)  are  generally  found  in  symbiotic  relation- 
ship with  Trifolium  species  (Bergensen  1982). 
However,  nodulation  of  T.  longipes  subsp.  neuro- 
phyllum has  not  been  specifically  reported. 

A  live  plant  was  taken  in  1964  from  an  area  at 
6900  ft  and  cultivated  in  a  greenhouse  for  a  year  in 
Canada  (B.  Cody,  personal  communication  1995). 
Chromosome  number  and  morphological  charac- 
ters remained  the  same  as  the  original  plant,  sug- 
gesting that  the  original  plant  had  no  environmen- 
tally sensitive  characteristics.  No  studies  on  seed 
production/ germination,  etc.  were  reported  (B. 
Cody,  personal  communication  1995). 

Distribution  and  Habitat 

Trifolium  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  is  geo- 
graphically on  the  periphery  of  the  other  T. 
longipes  subspecies.  The  T.  longipes  polyploid 
complex  covers  a  large  portion  of  the  western 
United  States  (Gillett  1969).  Chromosome  races  in 
this  complex  exist  at  the  diploid  (2n  =  16),  tetra- 
ploid  (2n  =  32),  and  hexaploid  (2n  =  48)  levels  and 
have  a  base  number  of  x  =  8.  The  diploid  varieties, 
of  which  Mogollon  clover  is  one,  cover  far  less 
area  than  that  covered  by  hexaploid  and  tetraploid 
populations.  Trifolium  longipes  is  absent  from  the 
Great  Basin  proper,  most  likely  because  of  the 
scarcity  of  suitable  habitat  due  to  progressive 
desiccation  of  the  region  since  Pleistocene  times. 
The  range  of  the  species  is  within  the  White  and 
Mogollon  mountains  of  eastern  Arizona  and 
adjacent  New  Mexico  at  elevations  of  6500-9000 
feet.  This  area  is  part  of  the  region  designated 
M313  on  the  ECOMAP  (in  the  National  Hier- 
archical Framework  of  Ecological  Units,  McNab 
and  Avers  1994). 

As  of  February,  1995,  there  were  39  reports  of 
occurrences,  i.e.,  individual  sites  where  the  plants 
grew.  Those  as  small  as  one  individual  clump  (<1 
m^)  probably  represent  a  discontinuous  portion  of 


263 


Figure  1.  Drawing  of  two  holotype  specimens  of  Trifolium  longipes  (Nutt.)  subsp.  neurophyllum  (Greene) 
Gillett.  Photocopies  for  use  by  the  artist  (Ronald  Redsteer)  were  courtesy  of  Dr.  B.  Hellenthal,  Notre 
Dame-Greene  Herbarium,  Notre  Dame,  IN. 


264 


Figure  2.  A  map  showing  the  distribution  of  the  three  subspecies  of  Trifoliwn  longipes  (Nutt.)  after  Gillett 
(1969).  The  inverted  triangle  symbol  indicates  the  extended  range  of  T.  longipes  subsp.  relexum.  Markers 
denote  general  vicinity  and  do  not  imply  exact  sites  of  individual  observations. 


265 


the  major  population  when  a  larger  population  is 
located  within  a  hundred  meters  (of  the  smaller 
individual  clump  or  cluster  of  individuals).  There 
are  19  sites  in  Arizona  and  20  in  New  Mexico. 
Populations  in  the  Cox  Canyon  region  of  New 
Mexico  that  were  first  located  more  than  10  years 
ago  have  apparently  been  extirpated.  Hydrological 
changes  have  occurred  in  the  region  of  the  original 
observation  and  the  area  is  much  drier  (E.  De- 
Bruin,  personal  communication  1994).  There  have 
been  few  attempts  to  relocate  plant  populations  at 
historic  locations  (>10  years  between  surveys). 
Plants  found  in  the  vicinity  of  Willow  Creek, 
Arizona  in  1991  were  probably  a  rediscovery  of 
plants  from  which  Clyde  Jones  had  collected  in 
1960  (UNM  Herbarium  specimen,  Albuquerque, 
New  Mexico),  and  those  located  in  the  Salvador 
Springs  area  in  New  Mexico,  also  in  1991,  are 
likely  to  be  a  relocation  of  the  plants  from  which 
M.  Talbot  collected  in  1915  (USDA  Forest  Service 
Herbarium,  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico).  In  Ari- 
zona, plants  have  been  relocated  near  Hannagan 
Meadows  where  plants  were  first  identified  in 
1935  (Bainbridge  1991).  Specimens  are  deposited 
at  the  New  York  Botanical  Garden  Herbarium  and 
the  University  of  Arizona  Herbarium. 

In  several  of  the  occurrence  records,  numbers 
of  individual  plants  have  been  either  counted  or 
estimated  (greater  than,  less  than,  etc.).  The  num- 
bers of  the  plants  at  different  sites  are  described  in 
Tables  1  and  2.  Low  and  high  refers  to  the  values 
given  when  an  estimate  was  provided.  For  exam- 
ple, when  a  population  was  described  as  about 
100,  the  low  used  was  75  and  the  high  was  125. 
From  these  observations  the  mean  number  of 
plants  per  site  is  quite  high,  69  in  Arizona  and  434 
in  New  Mexico,  but  standard  deviations  are  so 
high  as  to  make  the  mean  biologically,  as  well  as 
statistically,  meaningless.  The  median  value  is 
probably  more  significant  and  appears  to  be  16 
plants  per  occurrence  in  Arizona  and  100-150  in 
New  Mexico.  For  a  plant  like  Mogollon  clover 
these  are  small  patches,  when  one  considers  that  a 
square  meter  could  enclose  over  100  plants.  In 
addition,  in  making  estimates  during  flowering  it 
may  be  tempting,  but  erroneous,  to  consider  a 
flowering  head  as  denoting  a  plant.  In  New  Mex- 
ico, only  12  records  contained  actual  numerical 
estimates;  one  observation  where  plant  number 
was  estimated  to  be  in  the  thousands  was  made 
when  only  two  plants  were  in  bloom,  so  the 
chances  of  misidentification  were  high.  This  is 
especially  true  in  view  of  the  fact  that  plants  of 
subsp.  reflexwn  were  amongst  plants  of  subsp. 


Table  1.  Number  of  plants  in  individual  occurrences  in 
Arizona  (AZ)  and  New  Mexico  (NM).  Where  the  low 
and  high  estimate  are  the  same,  the  plants  were 
counted.  Where  estimates  were  made,  they  were  made 
in  the  field,  but  no  counting  was  carried  out. 


Number  of  Plants  Number  of  Plants 

State        Low        High  State        Low  High 


Table  2.  Estimated  mean  and  median  values  of  the 
plants  per  site  in  Arizona  and  New  Mexico. 


State 

Mean 

Std  Dev 

Median 

Low  estimate 

NM 

433 

653 

100 

AZ 

69 

114 

16 

High  estimate 

NM 

611 

928 

150 

AZ 

125 

237 

16 

nenrophyllum  in  Arizona.  Other  than  flower  color, 
this  creamy  white  flowered  Trifolium  is  super- 
ficially quite  similar  to  the  subsp.  neurophyllum 
and  it  is  important  to  keep  this  in  mind  when 
surveying  for  the  rare  subsp.  neurophyllum. 

Herbarium  specimens  are  deposited  at  the 
University  of  Arizona  Herbarium  (ARIZ),  the 
Arizona  State  University  Herbarium  (ASU),  the 
University  of  Notre  Dame  Greene  Herbarium 
(ND-G;  see  Figure  1),  the  New  York  Botanical 
Garden  Herbarium  (NY),  the  University  of  New 
Mexico  Herbarium  (UNM),  the  New  Mexico  State 
University  Herbarium  (NMSU),  the  Center  for 
Land  and  Biological  Resources  Research  Herbar- 
ium (DAO),  Canada,  the  U.S.  National  Herbarium 
(Smithsonian  Institute)  (U.S.),  the  USDA  Forest 
Service  Herbarium  (Southwest  Regional  Office). 

Trifolium  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  occurs 
primarily  in  seasonally  or  permanently  damp 
clearings  in  ponderosa  pine  and  mixed  conifer 


AZ 

2 

2 

AZ 

200 

300 

AZ 

2 

2 

AZ 

100 

100 

AZ 

6 

6 

AZ 

150 

200 

AZ 

8 

8 

AZ 

500 

1000 

AZ 

10 

10 

NM 

24 

48 

AZ 

15 

15 

NM 

175 

225 

AZ 

15 

15 

NM 

450 

500 

AZ 

15 

15 

NM 

225 

275 

AZ 

16 

16 

NM 

1000 

1500 

AZ 

18 

18 

NM 

1 

1 

AZ 

100 

100 

NM 

1500 

2500 

AZ 

100 

100 

NM 

2000 

2500 

AZ 

5 

10 

NM 

75 

125 

AZ 

5 

10 

NM 

15 

25 

AZ 

25 

35 

NM 

15 

25 

AZ 

50 

60 

NM 

55 

65 

AZ 

100 

500 

266 


forest  at  elevation  6500-9000  ft.  They  grow  in  wet, 
but  not  marshy,  meadows  and  on  benches  beside 
active  streams.  Some  plants  have  been  located  in 
relatively  dry  environments  (not  riparian)  but 
these  habitats  are  likely  to  be  seasonally  moist.  The 
plants  Ccm  grow  under  pines  and  other  trees  as 
long  as  the  canopy  is  relatively  open  (R.  Mongold, 
personal  communication  1995).  Although  the 
plants  can  tolerate  dry  conditions,  probably  by 
remainiiig  dormant,  they  apparently  need  damp 
conditions  to  flourish.  Associated  plants  are  Iris 
missouriensis  Nutt.,  Trifolium  fendleri,  T.  re-pens,  T. 
fendleri,  Achillea,  Alnns,  and  ponderosa  pine. 
Senecio  quaerens  Greene  has  been  observed  to  be  in 
the  more  mesic  habitats  occupied  by  T.  longipes 
subsp.  neurophyllum. 

On  a  local  level  the  distribution  of  Trifolium 
longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  appears  to  have  been 
fragmented  by  water  development  and  other 
forms  of  habitat  degradation.  The  influence  of  the 
fragmentation  of  populations  on  genetic  structure, 
and  the  potential  for  species  outcrossing  with 
other  Trifolium  species  in  the  region  has  not  been 
studied.  Genetic  analysis  and  pollination  studies 
could  resolve  these  questions. 

Although  not  quantified,  the  presence  of 
MogoUon  clover  has  been  observed  to  be  posi- 
tively associated  with  basalt  soils  and  negatively 
associated  with  datil  soils  (P.  Morrison,  personal 
communication  1995),  which  may  be  one  of  the 
reasons  why  the  species  is  not  found  eastward  into 
New  Mexico.  Basalt  soils  are  derived  from  qua- 
ternary volcanoes  and  datil  soils  from  tertiary 
volcanoes. 

Threats  to  the  Species 

Elimination  of  potential  habitat  is  a  major 
threat.  This  loss  of  habitat  can  be  due  to  one  or 
several  pressures  acting  alone,  or  in  concert.  Road 
building  and  timber  harvesting  activities  may 
change  the  hydrology  of  an  area.  For  example,  the 
population  at  Cox  Canyon  may  have  been  lost 
either  by  direct  disturbance  (road  development), 
or  indirectly  by  the  observed  change  in  the  hydrol- 
ogy of  the  area.  Grazing  pressures  by  livestock  can 
lead  to  changes  in  soil  properties  through  compac- 
tion and  disturbance,  including  initiating  gullies 
through  the  meadows.  Livestock  particularly 
disturbs  stream  banks  and  stream  channels.  There 
are  several  indications  that  substantial  grazing 
may  have  a  negative  interaction  with  the  T. 
longipes  var.  neurophyllum  population.  There  is  the 
tendency  for  individual  plants  in  areas  subject  to 
grazing  to  grow  in  clumps  of  Iris  missouriensis  that 


are  not  palatable  to  livestock  and  therefore  resist 
trampling.  Fenced  areas  have  been  observed  to  en- 
close higher  numbers  of  individuals  than  adjacent, 
unfenced  areas.  There  are  morphological  changes 
in  response  to  grazing  pressures.  Plants  have  been 
observed  to  respond  to  grazing  pressure  by  be- 
coming more  prostrate  (R.  Sivinski,  personal 
communication  1995).  A  positive  view  of  this  latter 
phenomenon  is  that  some  adaptations  to  grazing 
are  possible,  but  there  has  been  no  investigation  of 
whether  chemical  and  phenological  changes  occur 
along  with  the  morphological  changes.  These 
"unseen  changes"  may  be  detrimental  to  the  spe- 
cies vitality  or  reproductive  potential.  Livestock 
and  elk  directly  consume  the  flowering  heads  and 
thus  eliminate  the  potential  for  seed  production. 
This  is  a  special  concern  because  during  dry  years 
the  plants  may  not  be  able  to  grow  or  multiply 
substantially  and  they  rely  on  prolificacy  in  wet 
years  to  propagate  the  species.  Statistical  analysis 
of  these  observations,  and  thus  their  significance, 
is  missing  and  needs  to  be  addressed. 

No  interspecific  interactions  have  been  ob- 
served although  acute  shading  by  ponderosa  pines 
and  other  trees  may  be  a  limiting  factor  to  the 
plant's  growth.  Encroachment  of  the  conifers  onto 
meadow  areas  has  been  observed  to  be  affecting 
suitable  habitat  for  the  clover  (personal  communi- 
cation, P.  Boucher  1994,  P.  Morrison  1995).  It  may 
be  that  long-time  fire  suppression  has  contributed 
to  the  increase  in  pines  in  such  areas  (Boucher, 
personal  communication  1994).  It  may  also  be  that 
pine  encroachment  is  an  effect,  rather  than  a  cause 
of  drying  sites. 

Native  and  cultivated  species  of  clover  are 
notoriously  difficult  to  cross  artificially  (Taylor 
1980).  Little  gene  transfer  between  the  sections  has 
been  possible.  Artificial  hybridization  with 
another  species  or  variety  has  not  been  attempted 
with  T.  neurophyllum  specifically.  Native  American 
and  cultivated  species  of  clover  have  generally  not 
been  crossed  because  of  species  incompatibility. 
There  may  be  a  potential  for  effective  crossing 
between  the  geographically  near,  extant  relative  T. 
longipes  subsp.  pygmaeum  (x  =  8  and  2n  =  16)  with 
T.  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum ,  if  the  conditions 
were  appropriate  and  the  plants  were  located  near 
each  other.  T.  lo7igipes  subsp.  pygmaeum  flowers 
from  June  to  September  and  so  coincidental 
flow^ering  could  occur.  However,  according  to  the 
current  information  available,  this  situation  is  only 
likely  in  a  small  area  in  the  Apache-Sitgreaves 
National  Forest.  Specimens  a  little  uncharacteristic 
of  both  species  have  been  reported,  but  conclusive 


267 


evidence  of  hybridization  has  not  been  gathered. 
Observed  differences  in  the  morphology  of  T. 
longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  could  well  be  ex- 
plained by  the  morphological  plasticity;  for  exam- 
ple, a  prostrate  growth  habit  and  smaller  plants 
due  to  grazing  could  restrict  normal  growth. 

Because  observations  and  quantitative  surveys 
earlier  than  5  years  ago  are  few,  the  trend  of  the 
plant's  population  and  range  is  not  known  for  cer- 
tain. However,  there  is  some  evidence  of  decline  in 
population  number  and  range.  Fragmentation  of 
populations  is  suggested  by  the  discontinuous 
patchiness  of  the  plants  along  disturbed  streams 
with  ostensibly  suitable  habitat.  There  also  tends 
to  be  more  plants  in  the  less  disturbed  regions. 

Conclusion 

Trifolium  longipes  subsp.  neurophyllum  is  a 
distinctive  plant,  but  it  can  be  mistaken  for  other 
subspecies  of  Trifolium  longipes,  especially  in  the 
vegetative  state.  Present  evidence  supports  that 
this  plant  is  found  only  infrequently,  considering 
the  number  of  areas  surveyed  and  the  number  of 
places  in  which  it  has  been  found.  It  therefore  can 
be  considered  rare;  however,  it  can  be  locally 
abundant,  and  given  the  correct  conditions,  it  is 
not  naturally  given  to  sparse  local  distribution.  It 
is  clear  that  the  number  of  moist  meadow  habitats 
and  undisturbed  stream  banks  have  declined  and 
without  care  such  areas  will  continue  to  contract. 
Therefore,  its  habitat  is  threatened.  Small  popula- 
tions stand  a  good  chance  of  extirpation  because  of 
grazing  pressure  from  elk  and  livestock,  especially 
in  dry  years. 

This  subspecies  may  serve  an  important  func- 
tion as  a  biological  indicator  of  the  hydrological 
conditions  of  a  given  meadow  over  time.  There  is 
still  a  lot  to  be  learned  about  the  distribution,  ecol- 
ogy, associated  Trifolium  species,  and  community 
structure  of  Mogollon  clover. 

Acknowledgments 

This  status  assessment  was  funded  by  the  Na- 
tional Biological  Service,  Washington  D.C.  20240, 
under  the  initiative  "Species  at  Risk,  1994." 

Appreciation  is  also  expressed  to  the  following 
people  who  kindly  provided  information:  Paul 
Boucher,  Gila  National  Forest,  NM;  David  R. 
Brunner,  Missouri  Botanical  Garden,  MO;  B.  Cody, 
Center  for  Land  and  Biological  Resources  Re- 
search, Ontario;  Ann  Cully,  USFW,  NM;  Ellen 
DeBruin,  New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program, 
Albuquerque,  NM;  Reginald  Fletcher,  USD  A  FS, 
Albuquerque,  NM;  JM  Gillett,  Canadian  Museum 


of  Nature,  Ontario;  Dr.  Barbara  Hellenthal,  Notre 
Dame-Greene  Herbarium,  IN;  Dr.  P.K.  Holmgren, 
NY  Botanical  Garden,  NY;  Dr.  Duane  Isely,  ISU, 
lA;  Dr.  Phil  Jenkins,  U  of  A,  AZ;  Karen  Lightfoot, 
Santa  Fe,  NM;  Terry  Lillybridge,  Wenatchee 
National  Forest,  WA;  Dean  Longrie,  USDA  FS, 
OR/WA;  Roger  Mongold,  Bandelier  National 
Monument,  NM;  Pat  Morrison,  Gila  National 
Forest,  NM;  Terry  Myers,  Apache-Sitgreaves 
National  Forest,  AZ;  Bruce  Palmer,  USFWS,  AZ; 
Dr.  Pinkava,  ASU,  AZ;  Teresa  Prendusi,  USDA  FS, 
NM;  George  F.  Russell,  Smithsonian  Institute, 
Washington  D.C;  Sabra  Schwartz,  AZ  Game  and 
Fish  Dept.,  AZ;  Dr.  R.  Spellenberg,  NMSU,  NM; 
Tom  Subrige,  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forest, 
AZ;  Dr.  N.  Taylor,  University  of  Kentucky,  Lex- 
ington, KY;  Bob  Sivinski,  Santa  Fe,  NM;  Dr.  Peter 
Warren,  TNC,  AZ;  Dr.  Martin  Wojciechowski,  U  of 
A,AZ. 

Literature  Cited 

Arizona  Game  and  Fish  (revised  1994).  NGDMS  Plant 
Abstract  (12-13). 

Bainbridge,  S.  1991.  Trifolium  longipes  neurophyllum 
(Green).  Locations  on  the  Apache-Sitgreaves  Na- 
tional Forest,  Alpine  and  Springerville  (Historic  #  2) 
Ranger  Districts.  Report  to  the  USDA  Forest  Service, 
Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forest,  AZ.  4  pp. 

Bergensen,  F.J.  1982.  Root  Nodules  of  Legumes:  Struc- 
ture and  Functions.  Research  Studies  Press,  New 
York. 

Federal  Register.  1993.  58  (188):51189. 

Gillett,  J.M.  1966.  Type  collections  of  Trifolium  (Legumi- 
nosae)  at  the  Greene  Herbarium  at  Notre  Dame.  The 
American  Midland  Naturalist  76(2):469-474. 

Gillett,  J.M.  1969.  Taxonomy  of  Trifolium  (Leguminosae). 
II.  The  longipes  complex  in  North  America.  Cana- 
dian Journal  of  Botany  47:93-113 

Gillett,  J.M.  1993.  Preprint  of  manuscript  on  Trifolium 
(Leguminosae)  for  the  North  American  Flora  proj- 
ect— April  1993  manuscript. 

Greene,  E.L.  1903-1906.  Trifolium  neurophyllum.  Leaflets 
of  Botanical  Observation  and  Criticism.  1(66):154. 

Isely,  D.  1980.  New  combinations  and  one  new  variety 
in  Trifolium  (Leguminosae).  Brittonia  32:54-57. 

Kearney,  T.H.,  and  R.H.  Peebles.  1960.  Arizona  Flora,  p. 
425  (with  supplement).  University  of  California 
Press,  Berkeley. 

Martin,  J.  1943.  A  review  of  native  clovers,  p.  114.  Un- 
published thesis. 

Martin,  W.C.  and  C.R.  Hutchins.  1980.  A  Flora  of  New 
Mexico,  p.  1026  (2  volumes).  Strauss  and  Cramer, 
Vaduz,  Germany. 

McNab,  W.H.  and  P.E.  Avers.  1994.  Ecological  Sub- 
regions  of  the  United  States.  ECOMAP  in  the 
National  Hierarchical  Framework  of  Ecological 
Units.  USDA  Forest  Service,  Washington,  D.C. 


268 


Palmer,  B.  (preparer).  1991.  Sensitive  plants  of  the 
Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forest,  pp.  29-30. 
Sensitive  Plant  Workshop — Apache-Sitgreaves  and 
Gila  National  Forests. 

Sivinski  R.  and  K.  Lightfoot.  1994.  Inventory  of  Rare  and 
Endangered  Plants  of  New  Mexico,  p.  21.  NM  Fores- 
try and  Resorces  Conservation  Div.  Energy,  Minerals 
and  Natural  Resources  Dept.  Santa  Fe,  NM  Misc. 
Pub.  3.  June. 


Rutman,  S.  1992.  Handbook  of  Arizona's  Endangered, 
Threatened,  and  Candidate  Plants,  p.  57.  U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service,  Department  of  the  Interior, 
Phoenix,  AZ. 

Taylor,  N.L.  Clovers.  1980.  W.  Fehr  and  H.H.  Hadley, 
editors.  Hybridization  of  Crop  Plants,  pp.  261-272. 
American  Society  of  Agronomy,  Madison,  WI. 


269 


Endemic  Calciphiles  of  the  Middle  Arkansas  Valley,  Colorado 

S.  KELSO,  K.  HECKMANN,  J.  LAWTON,  and  G.  MAENTZ 
Department  of  Biology,  Colorado  College,  Colorado  Springs  80903 

Abstract:  The  Middle  Arkansas  River  Valley  of  southern  Colorado  contains  a  number  of  en- 
demic species  associated  with  the  Niobrara  Formation.  Many  endemic  plants  occur  through- 
out this  stratum,  which  is  subdivided  into  layers  of  Ft.  Hayes  limestone  and  Smoky  Hills 
calcareous  shales,  chalks,  and  limestones.  One  species,  however,  Oxybaphus  rotundifoUus, 
appears  only  on  a  few  subunits  of  the  Smoky  Hills  Member.  Elemental  cation  analysis  of  the 
soils  using  an  inductively  coupled  plasma  spectrometer  showed  geochemical  differences 
between  the  Ft.  Hayes  limestone  soils,  which  lacked  O.  rotundifoUus ,  and  the  Smoky  Hills  sites 
where  it  grows.  X-ray  diffraction  of  the  Niobrara  soils  dispelled  the  assumptions  in  current 
botanical  literature  that  gypsum  occurs  abundantly  throughout  these  soils  and  that  local 
endemics  were  obligate  gypsophiles.  Geological  data  provide  useful  autecological  informa- 
tion about  rare  species  and  opportunities  for  predicting  the  occurrence  of  populations. 


Introduction 

The  Arkansas  River  Valley  of  southern  Colora- 
do has  long  been  recognized  for  its  unusual  flora. 
Taxa  of  particular  interest  include  Chihuahuan 
element  disjuncts  and  local  endemics.  In  the  Mid- 
dle Arkansas  Valley,  defined  here  as  the  region 
between  Pueblo  and  Canon  City,  many  of  the 
endemic  taxa  appear  on  local  exposures  of  the 
Niobrara  Formation,  a  massive  upper  Cretaceous 
deposit  of  calcareous  shales,  chalks,  and  lime- 
stones. Described  in  the  literature  as  obligate 
calciphiles,  these  endemics  have  also  often  been 
characterized  as  gypsophiles  (e.g.,  Harrington 
1964,  Naumann  1990,  Weber  1990).  Despite  exten- 
sive bedrock  exposures  in  the  Arkansas  drainage, 
which  would  seem  to  offer  suitable  habitat,  some 
of  these  endemics  appear  to  be  quite  rare.  Conser- 
vation concerns,  raised  by  the  limited  distributions 
of  these  plants  and  locally  strong  development 
pressures,  have  resulted  in  their  placement  on  a 
category  2  species  list  for  Colorado  (Colorado 
Natural  Heritage  Program  1995). 

Though  recognized  for  its  unusual  flora,  the 
Middle  Arkansas  Valley  has  received  little  detailed 
attention  from  botanists.  It  remains  poorly  col- 
lected, ecologically  unexamined,  and  sparsely 
documented  for  the  distribution  of  the  suspected 
rare  taxa.  Currently,  however,  work  is  underway 
to  rectify  this  situation.  Our  study,  outlined  here, 
focused  on  the  specific  habitat  requirements  for 
some  of  the  endemic  calciphiles,  with  particular 
attention  given  to  one  of  the  rarest  species  in  the 
region,  Oxybaphus  (Mirabilis)  rotundifoUus  (Greene) 
Standley  (Nyctaginaceae).  [Nomenclature  for  the 
taxa  discussed  in  this  paper  follows  Weber  and 
Wittmann  (1992).] 


The  association  of  rare  or  endemic  plant  taxa 
with  unusual  substrates,  such  as  those  rich  in  car- 
bonates, ultra-mafic  compounds,  or  minerals  like 
selenium  or  gypsum,  has  long  been  accepted  by 
botanists  without  necessarily  being  well  under- 
stood. It  is  notably  difficult  to  determine  if  rare 
species  grow  in  situ,  because  unusual  substrates 
provide  requisite  geochemical  conditions,  physical 
conditions,  biological  conditions,  or  conditions 
that  exclude  competitors.  Few  detailed  studies 
have  examined  the  influences  of  stratigraphy  and 
geochemistry  on  the  autecology  of  rare  plants; 
consequently,  the  use  of  geological  data  for  pre- 
dicting rare  plant  occurrences  has  limited  prece- 
dent. The  middle  Arkansas  Valley  provides  an 
opportunity  for  such  investigations  due  to  the 
wealth  of  geological  information  available  and  the 
variety  of  substrate-specific  species  growing  there. 
Correlative  studies  of  floristics  and  geology  may 
produce  valuable  results  throughout  the  South- 
west, where  detailed  geologic  survey  maps  exist 
for  large  expanses  of  botanically  unknown  terri- 
tory. With  few  botanists  to  survey  these  expanses, 
focused  site  selection  could  yield  valuable  findings . 

In  this  study  we  examined  the  relationship  of 
endemic  calciphilic  species  to  the  substrate(s)  on 
which  they  grow  in  the  Middle  Arkansas  Valley. 
Our  specific  objectives  were  as  follows: 

•  To  determine  if  certain  calciphilic  endemics,  partic- 
ularly Oxybaphus  rotundifoUus ,  were  restricted  to 
specific  stratigraphic  units. 

•  To  determine  whether  unusual  substrate  conditions 
correlate  with  the  distribution  of  O.  rotundifoUus. 

•  To  determine  if  detailed  geological  information 
could  assist  in  predicting  the  occurrence  of  rare 
plant  species. 


270 


In  addition  to  extensive  fieldwork  and  use  of  the 
geological  literature  and  maps,  we  analyzed  soil 
samples  in  the  laboratory  using  X-ray  powder 
diffraction  (XRD)  to  test  for  occurrence  of  gypsum, 
calcite  and  quartz;  pH  measurements;  and  ele- 
mental cation  speciation  using  an  inductively 
coupled  plasma  spectrometer  (ICP).  Seven  extracts 
were  used  in  the  ICP  analysis:  a  general  elemental 
survey  witli  HCl,  the  ion  exchangeable  and  surface 
adsorbed  fraction,  carbonate-bound  fraction,  Fe- 
Mn  oxide  fraction,  weakly  bound  organic  fraction, 
strongly  bound  organic  fraction,  and  the  crystal- 
line hydrous  oxide  fraction. 

Materials  and  Methods 

Fieldwork  aiid  laboratory  analyses  were  con- 
ducted May-August  of  1995.  Floristic  surveys  of 
the  region  covered  approximately  1000  km-^  in 
Pueblo  and  Fremont  counties.  For  initial  test  sites, 
we  relocated  6  of  the  12  previously  known  popu- 
lations of  Oxybaphiis  rotundifolius  (Naumann  1990). 
Several  undocumented  populations  were  also 
found  during  the  months  of  fieldwork  and  they 
were  included  in  our  habitat  analyses.  Physical 
parameters  including  slope,  aspect,  surficial 
characteristics,  and  stratigraphic  position  were 
assessed  for  each  site.  We  removed  the  top  2  cm  of 
soil  around  individual  Oxybaphus  plants  (chosen  to 
represent  the  approximate  center  of  the  popula- 
tion), and  then  sampled  several  grams  of  subsur- 
face soil  surrounding  the  plant.  These  samples 
were  mixed  together  and  homogenized  in  a  plastic 
bag.  Where  possible,  several  samples  were  taken 
from  a  population.  Comparative  samples  were 
also  taken  from  other  calcareous  sites  of  known 
stratigraphic  position  that  did  not  contain  Oxy- 
baphus populations.  Soil  samples  were  frozen  at 
-29°C  until  the  time  of  processing  and  analysis. 

We  used  the  technique  given  in  Hendershot  et 
al.  (1993)  with  a  Cole-Parmer  electronic  pH  meter 
to  obtain  pH  measurements.  For  X-ray  diffraction 
analysis,  sample  subsets  were  sieved  to  remove 
large  bedrock  pieces,  then  analyzed  using  random 
orientation  powder  mounts  and  a  Phillips  X-ray 
diffractometer.  [Analysis  performed  by  S.  Weaver 
and  C.  Seaman  of  the  Colorado  College  Depart- 
ment of  Geology.]  For  ICP  analysis,  soils  were 
prepared  following  the  techniques  of  Tessier  et  al. 
(1979)  as  modified  by  Bower  (1995).  Analysis  was 
performed  on  a  Thermo-Jarrell  Ash  Atomscan  16 
inductively  coupled  plasma  spectrometer.  [Sample 
preparation  by  K.  Heckmann  and  P.  Beardsley; 
analysis  by  N.  Bower,  Department  of  Chemistry, 


Colorado  College.] 

A  Summary  of  the  Geology  of  the 

Middle  Arkansas  Valley 
The  central  position  of  the  Pueblo  area  as  illus- 
trative of  the  Western  Interior  Cretaceous  Basin  of 
North  America  provided  the  original  impetus  for 
stratigraphic  studies  of  the  Arkansas  River  bed- 
rock. The  Niobrara  Formation  was  formed  by 
episodic  deposition  in  the  shallow  epicontinental 
Inland  Seaway  (Kaufmann  1985).  The  dynamism 
of  the  seaway  in  response  to  tectonic,  eustatic,  and 
climatic  factors  makes  it  a  particularly  rich  area  for 
study  by  sedimentary  geologists.  Recent  interest  in 
sea  level-climate  links  with  the  Milankovitch 
cycles  of  orbital  variation  has  resulted  in  the  map- 
ping of  high-resolution  exposed  bedrock,  strati- 
graphic details  cut  by  the  Arkansas  River  and  its 
tributaries. 

Originally  described  from  the  Great  Plains,  the 
Niobrara  Formation  has  a  complex  nomenclatural 
history  (Scott  and  Cobban  1964,  Hattin  1982,  Bar- 
low and  Kaufman  1985).  Its  outcropping  in  the 
Pueblo-Cafion  City  region,  which  consists  of  a 
basal  Ft.  Hayes  limestone  overlain  by  the  Smoky 
Hills  Members  (Figure  1)  has  been  extensively 
documented.  Type  localities  for  both  members 
occur  in  Kansas,  but  high-resolution  stratigraphy 
in  Colorado  has  provided  local  analysis  of  the 
formation,  which  is  almost  250  m  thick  in  the 
Pueblo  area.  The  following  details  about  the  for- 
mation have  been  summarized  from  Barlow  and 
Kauffman  (1985),  Kauffman  (1985),  Pollastro  and 
Martinez  (1985),  Kauffman  and  Pratt  (1985),  Scott 
(1964, 1969a,  1969b),  and  Scott  and  Cobban  (1964). 

The  basal  unit  of  the  Niobrara  Formation  is  Ft. 
Hayes  limestone,  a  very  resistant  gray  limestone 
interbedded  with  thin  calcareous  shales.  Slightly 
more  than  13  m  thick,  the  unit  is  easily  recognized 
by  its  characteristic  wide  ledges  and  abundance  of 
large  bivalve  fossils  {Ostrea  congesta).  On  gentle 
slopes,  the  ledges  weather  to  smaller  fragments 
that  obscure  the  bedding.  Above  the  Ft.  Hayes 
limestone,  the  Smoky  Hills  Member  contains 
seven  subunits  (Figure  1): 

(A)  Shale  and  limestone  unit  (6.7  m):  transitional 
between  the  hard  Ft.  Hayes  limestones  and 
the  typically  fissile  Smoky  Hills  layers.  The 
soft  shales  interbed  with  the  harder  lime- 
stones and  contain  some  gypsum  near  the  top 
and  bottom  of  the  unit.  Bedding  layers  aver- 
age ca.  10  cm  in  thickness,  appearing  gray  or 
a  weathered  yellow-gray. 


271 


STRATIGRAPHY  OF  NIOBRARA  FORMATION:  PUEBLO,  COLORADO 


SMOKY  HILLS  MEMBER 


FT  HAYES  LIMESTONE 


UPPER  CHALK  UNIT  [2.4  M] 

Bentonite,  shaly  limestone:  olive  black 


UPPER  CHALKY  SHALE  [80.2  M] 

Platy  chalk,  fissile  chalky  shale:  yellow-brown 


MIDDLE  CHALK  UNIT  [8.5  M] 

Platy  sily  shale:  gray,  olive  gray,  forms  hogbacks 


MIDDLE  SHALE  [85.1  M] 

Calcareous  shales,  weathering  pale  yellow,  fissile 


LOWER  LIMESTONE  [13.5  M] 

Yellow  gray  plates,  often  covered  w/surficial  deposits 

LOWER  SHALE  [18.7  M] 

Platy  limestone-shale 


TRANSITIONAL  SHALE/LIMESTONE  [6.7  M] 

[13.3M] 


Figure  1.  Stratigraphic  units  of  the  Niobrara  Formation  in  Pueblo,  CO.  Adapted  from  G.R.  Scott  and  W.A. 
Cobban  (1964). 


272 


(B)  Lower  shale  unit  (ca.  19  m):  slightly  resistant 
calcareous  shales  forming  slopes  between  the 
harder  layers  of  the  under  and  overlying 
units.  These  shales  weather  to  medium  gray 
with  marker  units  of  orange  limonite  and 
bentonite.  Beds  range  in  thickness  from  18  to 
62  cm. 

(C)  Lower  limestone  unit  (13.5  m):  a  low  ridge- 
forming  unit  of  argillaceous  limestone  with 
shaly  limestone  interbedded  with  calcareous 
shale.  Beds  weather  to  olive-brown  or  buff 
and  range  in  thickness  from  16  to  72  cm. 

(D)  Middle  shale  unit  (ca.  85  m):  erodes  easily, 
forms  a  broad  valley  with  few  outcrops  in  the 
Pueblo  area  and  consists  of  various  calcare- 
ous shale  types.  Colors  range  from  olive-gray 
to  yellow-gray  and  yellow-brown. 

(E)  Middle  chalk  unit  (8.5  m):  blocky  chalk  layers 
separated  by  thin  layers  of  chalky  shale.  It 
weathers  to  small,  irregular,  yellow-gray 
plates. 

(F)  Upper  chalky  shale  (over  80  m):  forms  a 
broad  valley  between  the  m.ore  resistant 
middle  chalk  and  upper  chalk  units.  Colors 
range  from  orange-yellow  to  olive  or  yellow - 
gray.  The  lower  portion  contains  gypsum  or 
selenite. 

(G)  Upper  chalk  (2.5  m):  ledge-forming,  olive- 
black  (weathering  to  orange)  chalk.  Pierre 
Shale,  a  noncalcareous  shale  of  the  late  Cre- 
taceous Age,  caps  the  Smoky  Hills  Member. 

A  summary  local  geologic  column  is  shown  in  Fig- 
ure 2. 

Calciphiles  of  the  Middle 
Arkansas  Valley 

Table  1  shows  some  of  the  most  notable  calci- 
philic  species  found  along  the  Middle  Arkansas. 
Most  occur  throughout  the  area  in  diverse  habitats 
on  various  stratigraphic  units.  A  few  are  uncom- 
mon or  rare  in  distribution;  the  most  notable  of 
these  is  Oxybaphus  rotundifolius.  Our  field  surveys 
concur  with  previous  literature  reports  indicating 
that  this  species  has  a  restricted  distribution  with 
apparently  exact  habitat  requirements.  While  a 
number  of  other  calciphilic  species  are  found  with 
O.  rotundifolius,  no  single  species  can  be  used  as  a 
reliable  indicator  of  its  presence.  Of  the  calciphiles, 
the  most  often  associated  species  is  Penstemon 
versicolor  Pennell.  Sites  populated  by  P.  versicolor 
usually  contain  O.  rotundifolius.  However,  P. 
versicolor  can  also  be  found  on  sites  that  do  not 


contain  O.  rotundifolius ,  and  it  does  not  show  the 
same  preference  for  slopes  that  the  latter  species 
exhibits  (see  below). 

Table.  1.  Calciphilic  taxa  of  the  Middle  Arkansas  River 
Valley,  Colorado. 


Widespread 

Frankenia  jamesii 
Menodora  scabra 
Artemisia  bigelowii 
Echinocereiis  reichenbachii* 
Melampodium  leucanthum 
Townsendia  fendleri 
Erioneiiron  pilosum 
Penstemon  auriberbis 
Eremogone  (Arenaria)  hookeri 
Lescjiierella  fendleri 
Zinnia  grandiflora 

Uncommon 

Bolophyta  (Parthenium)  tetraneiiris* 
Lesquerella  ovalifolia 
Lesquerella  calcicola 
Nuttallia  (Mentzelia)  chrysantha* 
Eriogomim  lachnogynum 
Eriogonum  tenelliim 
Hoffmanseggia  drepanocarpa 
Oonopsis  pnebloensis* 

Limited  to  Rare 

Oxybaphus  (Mirabilis)  rotundifolius'* 
Penstemon  versicolor 
Asclepias  uncialis* 
uncertain 


SW  disjunct 

SW  disjunct 

Endemic 

SW  disjunct 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

SW  disjunct 


Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

Endemic 

SW  disjunct 

Endemic 


Endemic 
Endemic 
Distribution 


*Indicates  species  of  special  concern  in  Colorado. 

Other  associated  calciphilic  plant  species  are 
quite  diverse,  but  in  comparison  to  O.  rotundifolius, 
they  appear  less  specific  in  their  ecological  prefer- 
ences, with  no  obvious  restrictions  to  stratigraphic 
subunits  of  the  Niobrara  Formation.  In  addition  to 
Penstemon  versicolor,  the  most  commonly  associ- 
ated herbaceous  species  are  Lesquerella  calcicola 
Rollins,  Lesquerella  ovalifolia  Rydberg,  Bolophyta 
tetraneuris  (Bameby)  Weber,  and  Stipa  hymenoides 
Roemer  &  Shultes.  Virtually  all  sites  have  low 
vegetative  cover,  dominated  by  cushion  plants. 

Physical  Characteristics  of 
Oxybaphus  rotundifolius  Sites 

This  species  is  found  almost  entirely  on  mod- 
erately steep  (<15°)  slopes.  Plants  can  occasionally 
be  found  on  flat  ridgetops,  but  are  much  less 
abundant  there  than  on  the  slopes  below.  Slope 


273 


Pierre  Shale 


V    V.    X   X   J-   X       J    y.   X  - 

vr  y  Y.  Y  X       y  y  y  y  y 

Y  Y   y  Y  Y'  V  Y  Y  Y  Y  Y. 

V  "y^  Y'  Y'  > '  ~x'  Y  'Y  V  "v' y"  "y'^y'  "y '  "y'  'Y  'Y  V  y '  ~y 

Y  Y  Y  Y  Y  Y VV  V  Y  X  X  yJ^X  Y  V  y  Y  V 


v  Y  Y  y  y  Y  y  V  "y  y  y  y  y 


^y  Niobrara 

(Smoky  Hills) 


Y  Y  V 

Y  Y 

y  y  -v 


y,  y^  i 

Y  y 
y^  Y  _v 

Y  Y 


Y  Y,  y  y  y 
;  y  Y  y,  X 

Y  Y  Y  Y  \ 


y'y'Y 


.  J.  X  y  y^  y  y  >  y  y  y  X, 
y  Yxxyy  y  Y  y  y  y  y 
I  y  y  Y  Y      Y  Y  y  Y  y 

\'    Y    V'    Y    Y  /'     ,•     v'  i' 


////////// 
///////// 
//////// 
////////. 
■///////, 
///////, 
//////// 
//////// 


Greenhorn 
Limestone 


//////////////// 
//////////////// 
///////// 
///////// 
/////////, 
^////////, 
'///////// 
■//////// 


//////////////////////////////// 
//////////////////////////////// 
//////////////////////////////// 


\  \  \ 
\  \  \  \  \ 

^  Dakota  Sandstone  x  xi 


\  \ 

\  \  \  \  \ 


\ 


\ 


\  \ 


\ 


UPPER  CRETACEOUS 


LOWER  CRETACEOUS 


Figure  2.  Generalized  geological  column  near  Pueblo,  CO. 


274 


aspect  varies  considerably,  but  appears  to  be  most 
common  on  south-  or  southeast-facing  exposures. 
Surficial  characteristics  are  uniform  in  all  sites:  a 
highly  weathered  bedrock  facies  consisting  of 
small  (less  than  4  cm  long)  platy  pieces  forming  a 
thin  surface  layer,  with  deep  fines  underneath. 
Habitats  correspond  to  the  middle  chalk  and 
upper  chalky  shale  subunits  of  the  Smoky  Hills 
Member,  where  fissile  bedding  planes  exist.  We 
also  found  a  single  small  (<30  individuals)  popula- 
tion on  a  Ft.  Hayes  exposure.  This  site  was  anoma- 
lous for  its  highly  weathered  facies  of  small  rock 
fragments  and  its  low-angle  slope.  Ft.  Hayes  lime- 
stone is  commonly  found  as  resistant  ledges  in 
vertical  exposures. 

By  using  detailed  geological  maps  in  conjunc- 
tion with  knowledge  of  habitat  preference  for 
slopes,  we  were  able  to  predict  successfully  the 
occurrence  of  the  species  in  previously  unsur- 
veyed  areas.  Two  new  populations  of  O.  rotundi- 
folius  were  located  using  this  method. 


Chemical  Characteristics  of 
Oxybaphus  rotundifolhis  Sites 

All  sites  are  moderately  to  strongly  alkaline, 
with  a  range  of  pH  levels  from  7.3  to  8.6  (Table  2). 
This  range  was  consistent  with  values  reported  in 
the  soil  survey  for  Pueblo  County  (U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  1979).  We  found  no  significant 
difference  in  pH  between  the  Smoky  Hills  sites 
with  O.  rotimdifolius  and  the  Ft.  Hayes  limestone 
sites  that  lacked  it. 

Of  17  soil  samples  analyzed  using  X-ray  dif- 
fraction, all  sites,  even  those  lacking  Oxybaphus 
rotimdifolius  populations,  showed  the  strong 
presence  of  calcite  and  quartz  (Figure  3).  Gypsum 
appeared  in  only  five  samples,  one  of  which  was  a 
test  sample  taken  from  a  known  gypsum  lens.  Of 
the  remaining  four  samples  showing  gypsum, 
three  were  from  sites  with  Oxybaphus  rotimdifolius. 
Four  other  populations  of  this  species  did  not 
show  any  presence  of  gypsum.  Though  the  botan- 


Table  2.  Soil  pH,  Niobrara  Formation,  Middle  Arkansas  VaUey.  Values  represent  median  of  two  readings 
for  each  sample  (electronic  pH  meter). 


Origin 

Unit 

pH=^ 

0.  rotimdifolius 

Pueblo  Wildlife  Area  1 

Smoky  Hills 

7.79 

yes 

Pueblo  Wildlife  Area  2 

Smoky  Hills 

7.40 

yes 

Pueblo  Wildlife  Area  3 

Smoky  HiUs 

7.69 

yes 

Pueblo  Wildlife  Area  4 

Smoky  Hills 

8.30 

no 

Juniper  Brks  1 

Smoky  Hills 

7.98 

yes 

Juniper  Brks  2 

Smoky  Hills 

7.85 

yes 

Juniper  Brks  3 

Smoky  Hills 

7.86 

yes 

Portland  1 

Smokv  Hills 

7.56 

yes 

Portland  2 

Smoky  Hills 

7.76 

yes 

Portland  3 

Smoky  Hills 

7.49 

yes 

Rte  115/50 

Smoky  Hills 

7.43 

yes 

Rte  115/50 

Smoky  Hills 

8.21 

yes 

Rtell5/50 

Smoky  Hills 

8.32 

yes 

Rte  50  contact 

Smoky  Hills/Ft.  H 

7.92 

yes 

Four  Mi  Creek 

Smoky  Hills 

7.92 

yes 

Four  Mi  Creek 

Smoky  Hills 

7.84 

yes 

Four  Mi  Creek 

Smoky  Hills 

7.91 

yes 

Beaver  Creek 

Smoky  Hills 

7.80 

yes 

Rtell5/KRd 

Ft.  Hayes 

7.81 

no 

Rtell5/KRd 

Ft.  Hayes 

7.95 

no 

Beaver  Cr 

Ft.  Hayes 

8.02 

no 

Pueblo  Reservoir  1 

Ft.  Hayes 

8.07 

no 

Pueblo  Reservoir  2 

Ft.  Hayes 

7.84 

no 

Swallows 

Ft.  Hayes 

8.11 

no 

Pueblo  S. 

Ft.Hayes 

7.97 

no 

^pH  values  at  sites  with  and  without  O.  rotimdifolius  are  not  significantly  different. 


275 


A.  No  Gypsum 

sample  identification  JB 
1200- 


Jul-24-1995  16:39 


[counts] 
1000 

800- 

600- 

400- 

200- 


0.0 


Q 


Q  +  G 


10 


JB.RD 


JB.DI 


15 


7=^ 


T 

20 


-I— 

25 


[°2e]  30 


B.  Gypsum  Present 

sample  identification  PWLA3 
[counts] 


1200  - 


1000  - 


800  - 


600  - 


400 


200  - 


0.0 
10 

PWLA3.RD 


Q  +  G 


PWLA3.DI 


T 
15 


I 

20 


Jul-21-1995  14:43 


Q 


25 


[°2e]  30 


Figure  3.  Typical  soil  profiles  in  the  Niobrara  Formation  showing  presence  and  absence  of  gypsum. 
Twelve  of  17  samples  were  similar  to  profile  A;  five  were  similar  to  B.  G  =  Gypsum;  Q  =  Quartz;  C  = 
Calcite. 


276 


ical  botanical  literature  presumes  the  nearly  ubiq- 
uitous presence  of  gypsum  in  the  Middle  Arkan- 
sas Valley,  the  geological  literature  suggests  that 
its  occurrence  is  only  sporadic,  limited  to  thin  beds 
in  certain  strata.  Our  XRD  results  contradict  the 
botanical  literature,  which  identified  many  of  the 
local  endemics  as  gypsophiles.  While  gypsum  may 
occur  in  some  sites,  none  of  the  calciphilic  species 
we  surveyed  appear  to  depend  on  its  presence. 

For  ICP  elemental  analysis,  a  survey  of  soil 
elements  was  obtained  first  using  HCl  extraction 
(Table  3).  While  this  method  does  not  indicate 
elemental  availability  to  plants,  it  does  provide  the 
most  general  information  about  overall  soil  cati- 
ons. In  HCl  extraction,  we  found  a  strong  correla- 
tion between  the  occurrence  of  O.  rotundifolius  and 
a  low  presence  of  Fe  and  Mn  (Figure  4).  Further 
analysis  using  different  soil  fractions  (Table  4)  fo- 
cused on  the  elements  Fe,  Mn,  V,  and  Cd  (the  only 
elements  that  showed  discernible  and  consistent 
patterns).  Ft.  Hayes  limestone  sites  that  were  lack- 
ing O.  rotundifolius  did  have  chemical  differences 

Table  3.  Elements  found  in  detectable  amounts.  Smoky 
Hills  Member  and  Ft.  Hayes  Limestone  (soil  concentra- 
tions in  ppm).  Ft.  Hayes  sites  lack  O.  rotundifolius; 
Smoky  Hills  sites  contain  O.  rotundifolius.  Data  from 
eight  Ft.  Hayes  sites  and  eight  Smoky  Hills  sites.  Repli- 
cates taken  at  eight  different  sites  showed  minimal 
intrasite  variation.  Bold  face  elements  show  unusual 
levels. 


Range  Ft.  Range  Smoky 

Element  Hayes  Sites  Hills  Sites 


B  3-^  2-11 

Mg  74-187  67-221 

Al  7-62  7-37 

Si  27-77  29-96 

P  0-1000  0-540 

S  4-3600  3-3200 

K  10-103  7-37 

Ca  68000-80000  60000-80000 

Ti  1.6-2.8  0.4-3.0 

V  11-39  4.5-56 
Mn  26-81  8-24 
Fe  35-100  11-67 
Co  0.5-1  0-2 
Ni  0-1.5  0-1.5 
Cu  0-1.5  0-1.5 
Zn  1.2-9.5  1.9-11 
Sr  141-220  162-221 

Y  0-1.5  0-1.5 
Cd  0.3-0.6  0.6-2.0 
Ba  5-24  12-35 
Pb  0-0.5  0-0.5 


from  Smoky  Hills  sites  with  O.  rotundifolius.  They 
had  consistently  lower  levels  of  Cd  and  Mn  in  the 
carbonate-bound  fraction,  lower  levels  of  Cd  and 
V  in  the  Mn-Fe  hydroxide-bound  fraction,  lower 
levels  of  V  in  the  weakly  bound  organic  fraction, 
higher  levels  of  Mn  in  the  strongly  bound  organic 
fraction,  and  lower  V,  higher  Mn,  and  lower  Cd  in 
the  crystalline  hydroxide-bound  fraction.  The 
presence  of  V  and  Cd  in  all  the  fractions  strongly 
suggests  that  they  are  indigenous  rather  than  local 
pollutants.  A  consistent  pattern  of  high  Cd  and 
low  Mn  for  Smoky  Hills  soils  containing  O.  ro- 
tundifolius reoccurs  throughout  the  different  soil 
fractions.  These  levels  appear  to  be  atypical  in 
comparison  to  levels  found  in  other  U.S.  soils 
(McBride  1994). 

Discussion 

Elemental  analyses  do  show  some  unusual,  or 
at  least  different,  soil  chemistry  at  Oxybaphus  ro- 
tundifolius sites.  In  particular,  the  species  correlates 
with  low  levels  of  Mn  and  high  levels  of  the  po- 
tential toxins  Cd  and  V.  Additional  analysis  of 
plant  tissues  will  determine  if  plants  accumulate 
these  elements.  While  heavy  metal  or  low  manga- 
nese tolerance  may  be  part  of  the  autecology  of  O. 
rotundifolius,  it  would  be  premature  and  overly 
simplistic,  however,  to  conclude  that  these  factors 
alone  explain  its  restriction  to  certain  sites.  Ele- 
ments that  appear  high  or  low  in  different  soil 
fractions  are  available  to  different  plants  in  dif- 
ferent ways  and  under  different  conditions  of 
moisture  and  mycorrhizal  association.  We  view 
these  results  as  preliminary  and  only  potential 
indicators  of  habitat  requirements.  Considerable 
additional  work,  including  tissue  and  mycorrhizal 
surveys,  will  be  needed  to  determine  if  these  dif- 
ferences are  important  factors  in  the  distribution  of 
this  species.  We  are  cautious  about  assuming 
causation  with  geochemical  differences  in  soils. 
Sedimentary  stratigraphic  units  will  differ  chem- 
ically because  of  different  environmental  condi- 
tions in  their  depositional  cycles.  For  plants,  these 
differences  may  be  only  correlates  of  the  physical 
characteristics  and  weathering  patterns  that  are 
more  critical  components  of  habitat. 

Although  the  discovery  that  geochemical  dif- 
ferences exist  between  sites  with  and  without  rare 
species  may  pose  more  questions  than  answers, 
we  suggest  that  such  analyses  are  still  valuable 
tools  in  rare  plant  biology.  We  found  that  the 
geological  literature  provided  us  with  a  detailed 
understanding  of  local  substrate  differences  rele- 
vant for  plant  distributions,  and  that  we  could  use 


277 


140 


120 


100' 


Fe 

(ppm  in  soil) 


80 


60' 


40 


20 


0' 


D 

] 

— B- 

D 

1 

i 

1 

1 

f-  D 

■ 

1 

1 

'i 

1 

1 

:  1 

0      10     20     30     40     50     60     70     80      90  100 

Mn 

(ppm  in  soil) 


Figure  4.  Iron  and  manganese  content  of  Smoky  Hills  and  Ft.  Hayes  soils.  Filled  rectangles  are  Smoky 
Hills  locations  containing  Oxybaphns  rotundif alius;  open  rectangles  are  Ft.  Hayes  locations  that  lack  0. 
rotundifoliiis.  Arrow  indicates  only  known  Ft.  Hayes  location  containing  this  species. 


available  geological  maps  to  pinpoint  locations 
where  new  populations  would  be  found.  The 
geological  literature  provided  us  with  the  initial 
idea  that  if  gypsum  was  not  a  ubiquitous  compo- 
nent of  local  soils,  then  the  botanical  literature 
might  be  incorrect  in  assuming  an  obligate  gypso- 
philic  nature  for  local  plant  species.  XRD  analysis 
of  soils  supported  this  hypothesis:  gypsum  cer- 
tainly occurs  in  the  Middle  Arkansas  Valley,  but 
we  find  little  evidence  that  endemic  or  disjunct 
species  here  depend  on  its  presence.  Abundant 
crystalline  calcite  in  the  region  may  well  have  been 


mistaken  by  botanists  for  surficial  gypsum. 

The  initial  results  of  cation  speciation  from 
ICP  analysis  pose  intriguing  questions  for  further 
pursuit.  Additional  elemental  pattern  analysis, 
plant  tissue  samples,  and  surveys  of  mycorrhizal 
associations  may  help  clarify  some  questions 
about  the  relative  importance  of  geochemical, 
physical,  and  biological  characteristics  of  Oxy- 
baphus  rotundifolius  habitat.  On  a  practical  level, 
the  ICP  provides  a  comparatively  easy  and  in- 
expensive method  of  assessing  habitat  charac- 
teristics. This  basic  knowledge  could  be  used  not 


278 


Table  4.  Comparative  elements  in  Smoky  Hills  sites  (with  Oxybaphiis  rotimdifolius)  and  Ft.  Hayes  lime- 
stone sites  (lack  O.  rotimdifolius).  Nd  =  amounts  not  detectable  by  ICP  analysis.  Numbers  indicate  ppm  in 
extract  concentrations.  Soil  concentrations  are  approximately  lOx  larger  (±  iiidividual  calibrations  for 
different  fractionations). 


Ext  1:  Ion  Exchangeable 

Ext  2:  Bound  to  Carbonates 

Element 

Ft.  Hayes 

Smoky  Hills 

Element 

Ft.  Hayes 

Smoky  Hills 

V 

Nd 

Nd 

V 

Nd 

Nd 

Mn 

Nd 

Nd 

Mn 

2.1-7.2 

0.9-1.6 

Fe 

Nd 

Nd 

Fe 

0.22-0.14 

0.4-1.2 

Cd 

Nd 

Nd 

Cd 

Nd 

0.16-0.22 

Summary:  No  significant  differences.  Summary:  Oxybaphus  sites  higher  in  Cd; 

lower  in  Mn. 


Ext  3:  Bound  to  Mn-Fe  Hydroxides 


Element  Ft.  Hayes  Smoky  Hills 


V  0.93-1.2  2.5-7.2 

Mn  10.6-27.0  2.6-11.4 

Fe  80-160  114-305 

Cd  Nd  0.1-0.53 


Summary:  Oxybaphus  sites  have  higher 
V,Cd,  Fe;  low  in  Mn. 


Ext  4:  Weakly  Bound  to  Organics 


Element  Ft.  Hayes  Smoky  Hills 


V  Nd  0-0.7 

Mn  0.1-1.1  0.07-0.67 

Fe  6.3-23.0  1.0-21.0 

Cd  Nd  Nd 


Summary:  Oxybaphus  sites  have  higher 
V?  Otherwise,  no  differences  detected. 


Ext  5:  Strongly  Bound  to  Organics' 


Ext  6:  Bound  to  Crystalline  Hydrous  Oxides 


Element 


Ft.  Hayes 


Smoky  Hills 


Element 


Ft.  Hayes 


Smoky  Hills 


V 

Mn 

Fe 
Cd 


Nd 
0.3 
17 
Nd 


0-1.3 
0.03-0.1 
3.4-14 
Nd 


V 

Mn 

Fe 

Cd 


0.3-1.1 
1.3-3.6 
85-167 
Nd 


1.6-5.1 
0.49-5.1 
105-192 
O-0.16 


Simmiary:  Oxi/baphiis  sites  lower  in  Mn. 


Summary:  Oxybaphus  sites  higher  in  V. 


Tewer  samples  analyzed  due  to  corrosive  qualities  of  extractant-damaging  machine. 


only  to  predict  a  species'  occurrence,  but  also  to 
locate  geochemically  compatible  sites  for  the  re- 
establishment  of  species  in  threatened  or  endan- 
gered habitats. 

In  conclusion,  we  suggest  that  botanical  field- 
work  in  substrate-diverse  regions,  such  as  the 
Southwest,  should  proceed  in  conjunction  with 
geological  research  in  both  the  laboratory  and  in 
the  literature.  Extensive  geological  data  exists 
which  can  be  extremely  useful  in  assessing  habitat, 
predicting  new  populations,  or  simply  under- 
standing autecology  of  our  numerous  and  all  too 
poorly  understood  rare  species.  Collaboration 
with  geologists,  soil  scientists,  and  chemists  can 
provide  new  insights  for  all  parties  concerned. 


Acknowledgments 
Funding  for  this  project  was  provided  by  the 
Howard  Hughes  Medical  Institute  Undergraduate 
Research  grant  to  Colorado  College,  the  Colorado 
Natural  Areas  Program,  and  the  Colorado  Native 
Plant  Society.  We  are  also  grateful  for  the  invalu- 
able field  and  laboratory  assistance  of  the  follow- 
ing groups  and  individuals:  D.  Anderson  (Direc- 
torate of  Environmental  Compliance,  Ft.  Carson); 
P.  Beardsley,  N.  Bower  (Dept.  of  Chemistry, 
Colorado  College);  P.  Myrow,  S.  Weaver,  and  C. 
Seamann  (Dept.  of  Geology,  Colorado  College);  G. 
Scott  (U.S.  Geological  Survey);  C.  Crawford  and  B. 
Jennings  (Colorado  Native  Plant  Society);  M. 
French  (Pueblo  Reservoir  State  Park);  Soil  Conser- 


279 


vation  Service  in  Cafion  City,  CO;  and  the  Natural 
Heritage  Program  of  The  Nature  Conservancy, 
Colorado. 

Literature  Cited 

Barlow,  L.K.  and  E.G.  Kauffman.  1985.  Depositional 
cycles  in  the  Niobrara  Formation,  Colorado  Front 
Range.  In  L.M.  Pratt,  E.G.Kauffman,  and  F.B.  Zelt, 
editors.  Fine  Grained  Deposits  and  Biofacies  of  the 
Western  Interior  Seaway:  Evidence  of  Cyclic  Sedi- 
mentary Processes,  pp.  199-208.  SEPM  Guidebook 
No.  4.  SEPM  Second  Annual  Meeting,  Golden,  CO. 

Bower,  N.  1995.  Extraction  procedure  for  cation  spe- 
ciation  of  sediments.  Unpublished  manuscript. 
Department  of  Chemistry,  Colorado  College.  6  pp. 

Colorado  Natural  Heritage  Program.  1995.  Colorado's 
natural  heritage:  Rare  and  imperiled  animals,  plants, 
and  natural  communities.  Vol.  1(1).  58  pp. 

Harrington,  H.  D.  1964.  Manual  of  the  Plants  of  Colo- 
rado. Sage  Books,  Swallow  Hill  Press,  Chicago. 

Hattin,  D.E.  1982.  Stratigraphy  and  depositional  envi- 
ronment of  Smoky  Hills  chalk  member,  Niobrara 
Chalk  (upper  Cretaceous)  of  the  type  area,  western 
Kansas.  Kansas  Geological  Survey  Bulletin  225. 

Hendershot,  W.  H.,  H.  Lalande,  and  M.  Duquette.  1993. 
Soil  reaction  and  exchangeable  acidity.  In  M.R.  Car- 
ter, editor.  Soil  Sampling  and  Methods  of  Analysis, 
pp.  141-145.  Lewis  Publishers,  Boca  Raton,  FL. 

Kauffman,  E.  G.  1985.  Cretaceous  evolution  of  the 
western  interior  basin  of  the  United  States.  In  L.M. 
Pratt,  E.G.Kauffman,  and  F.B.  Zelt,  editors.  Fine 
Grained  Deposits  and  Biofacies  of  the  Western 
Interior  Seaway:  Evidence  of  Cyclic  Sedimentary 
Processes,  pp.  FRS1-FRS26.  SEPM  Guidebook  No.  4. 
SEPM  Second  Annual  Meeting,  Golden,  CO. 

Kauffman,  E.G.,  and  L.M.  Pratt.  1985.  Field  reference 
section.  In  L.M.  Pratt,  E.G.Kauffman,  and  F.B.  Zelt, 
editors.  Fine  Grained  Deposits  and  Biofacies  of  the 
Western  Interior  Seaway:  Evidence  of  Cyclic  Sedi- 
mentary Processes,  pp.  IV-XIII.  SEPM  Guidebook 
No.  4.  SEPM  Second  Annual  Meeting,  Golden,  CO. 


McBride,  M.  1994.  Trace  and  toxic  elements  in  soils.  In 
Environmental  Chemistry  of  Soils,  pp.  308-341. 
Oxford  Univ.  Press,  NY. 

Naumann,  T.  1990.  Status  report  for  Oxybaphus  rotiindi- 
folius .  Colorado  Natural  Areas  Program,  Department 
of  Natural  Resources,  Denver,  CO.  37  pp. 

Pollastro,  R.M.  and  C.  J.  Martinez.  1985.  Whole-rock, 
insoluble  residue,  and  clay  mineralogies  of  marl, 
chalk,  and  bentonite.  Smoky  Hills  shale  member, 
Niobrara  Formation  near  Pueblo,  Colorado — Depo- 
sitional and  diagenetic  implications.  In  L.M.  Pratt, 
E.G.Kauffman,  and  F.B.  Zelt,  editors.  Fine  Grained 
Deposits  and  Biofacies  of  the  Western  Interior 
Seaway:  Evidence  of  Cyclic  Sedimentary  Processes, 
pp.  215-222.  SEPM  Guidebook  No.  4.  SEPM  Second 
Annual  Meeting,  Golden,  CO. 

Scott,  G.  R.  1964.  Geology  of  the  Northwest  and  North- 
east Pueblo  quadrangles.  U.S.  Geological  Survey 
Miscellaneous  Geological  Investigations  Map  1-408. 

Scott,  G.  R.  1969a.  General  and  engineering  geology  of 
the  northern  part  of  Pueblo,  Colorado.  Geological 
Survey  Bulletin  1262. 131  pp. 

Scott,  G.  R.  1969b.  Geologic  map  of  the  Southwest  and 
Southeast  Pueblo  Quadrangles,  Colorado.  U.S.  Geo- 
logical Survey  Miscellaneous  Geological  Investiga- 
tions Map  1-597. 

Scott,  G.R.  and  W.A.  Cobban.  1964.  Stratigraphy  of  the 
Niobrara  Formation  at  Pueblo,  Colorado.  U.S.  Geo- 
logical Survey  Professional  Paper  454-L.  30  pp. 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  1979.  Soil  Survey  of 
Pueblo  Area,  Colorado.  Soil  Conservation  Service.  90 
pp. 

Tessier,  A.,  P.G.C.  Campbell,  and  M.  Bisson.  Sequential 
extraction  procedure  for  the  speciation  of  particulate 
trace  metals.  Analytical  Chemistry  51:844-851. 

Weber,  W.A.  Colorado  Flora:  Eastern  Slope.  1990.  Uni- 
versity Press  of  Colorado,  Niwot. 

Weber,  W.  A.  and  R.C.  Wittmann.  1992.  Catalog  of  the 
Colorado  Flora:  A  Biodiversity  Baseline.  University 
Press  of  Colorado,  Niwot. 


280 


Monitoring  Survival,  Growth,  and  Reproduction  of  Aletes  humilis 

TERRI  T.  SCHULZ  and  ALAN  T.  CARPENTER 
The  Nature  Conservancy,  1244  Pine  St.,  Boulder,  CO  80302 

Abstract:  Larimer  aletes  {Aletes  humilis  Coulter  &  Rose),  a  globally  rare  plant,  has  been  moni- 
tored for  7  years  beginning  in  1989  at  Phantom  Canyon  Preserve,  Colorado.  It  is  a  cushion 
plant  that  usually  grows  in  cracks  in  granite  along  north-facing  cliffs.  Information  was 
collected  annually  on  survival  and  growth  of  approximately  300  individuals.  The  first  5  years 
showed  very  little  change  in  most  variables.  Very  little  mortality  was  seen  over  the  course  of 
the  study.  The  percentage  of  individuals  that  flowered  ranged  from  50  to  80  percent  with 
most  of  those  producing  fruit.  Flowering  and  fruit  production  data  differed  greatly  in  1994 
and  1995  from  that  collected  in  1989  through  1993.  While  mortality  was  still  low  in  1994,  only 
54  percent  of  the  individuals  flowered  and  very  few  of  those  set  fruit.  A  late  spring  storm 
may  have  again  interrupted  seed  set.  In  1995,  a  prolonged  cold  and  wet  spring  may  have 
interfered  with  seed  set.  Data  from  the  first  5  years  indicated  that  these  plants  were  well 
established  and  no  threats  were  seen.  Data  from  1994  and  1995,  however,  showed  the  value 
of  long-term  monitoring  in  determining  the  impacts  of  unusual  climatic  events  on  this  plant. 


Introduction 

Aletes  humilis  Coulter  &  Rose  (Larimer  aletes), 
a  member  of  the  parsley  family  (Apiaceae),  is  clas- 
sified as  a  C2  candidate  for  listing  under  the  En- 
dangered Species  Act,  and  is  considered  sensitive 
by  the  U.S.  Forest  Service  Region  2.  It  grows  in 
cushions  2-10  cm  high  and  about  5-20  cm  in 
diameter  (Theobald  et  al.  1964).  Aletes  humilis  pro- 
duces yellow  flowers  in  early  May,  but  has  been 
found  to  flower  into  early  July.  After  flowering  the 
leaves  grow  up  around  the  flowering  stems.  Thus, 
most  of  the  seed  falls  within  the  plant. 

Aletes  humilis  grows  in  cracks  and  crevices  on 
rocky,  mostly  north-facing  granite  cliffs  along  the 
front  range  in  Colorado  (Figure  1).  This  species 
has  been  found  at  32  sites  in  Larimer  and  Boulder 
counties  in  Colorado.  It  has  also  been  reported,  but 
not  verified,  from  Albany  County,  Wyoming.  Indi- 
viduals in  the  populations  appear  to  be  vigorous, 
flowering  is  abundant,  and  at  least  some  seed 
production  occurs.  The  populations  are  small  to 
moderate,  with  numbers  of  individuals  ranging 
from  about  50  to  several  thousand. 

Aletes  humilis  mostly  grows  on  sites  derived 
from  Silver  Plume  granite  in  cracks  in  massive 
rock  or  between  boulders,  but  has  also  been  found 
in  cracks  in  metamorphic  rocks.  Sometimes  two  or 
more  plants  grow  together  within  a  crack,  making 
determinations  of  individual  plemts  difficult.  It  is 
found  largely  on  sites  that  do  not  receive  continual 
direct  sunlight,  such  as  north-facing  slopes,  under 
trees,  or  on  the  north  sides  of  large  rocks.  Aletes 
humilis  grows  on  level  ground,  steep  slopes,  and 
canyon  walls.  The  soils  on  which  it  is  found  are 


usually  coarse-textured,  being  derived  from  gran- 
ite parent  material. 

Elevations  of  the  known  locations  range  from 
2100  to  2380  m  (6500-7400  ft)  (O'Kane  1988).  Pre- 
cipitation data  for  the  locations  are  lacking;  how- 
ever, annual  precipitation  is  probably  on  the  order 
of  300  to  500  mm  (12-20  in). 

Study  Site  and  Methods 

Phantom  Canyon  Preserve,  owned  by  The 
Nature  Conservancy,  is  located  30  miles  northwest 
of  Fort  Collins,  in  Larimer  County,  Colorado.  This 
preserve  protects  1600  acres  of  rugged  canyon 
along  the  North  Fork  of  the  Cache  la  Poudre  River. 
Phantom  Canyon  remains  one  of  the  few  low- 
elevation  roadless  canyons  along  the  Front  Range 
of  Colorado  (Figure  2). 

Approximately  300  individual  A.  humilis 
plants  of  various  sizes  were  tagged  and  monitored 
for  7  years  (1989-1995)  at  five  sites  (Figure  2).  At 
the  time,  these  were  the  only  known  sites  at  the 
preserve.  Subsequently,  one  additional  site  has 
been  discovered.  Genetic  work  showed  that  these 
sites  are  distinct  populations  even  though  some 
are  less  than  a  kilometer  apart  (Linhart  and 
Premoli  1993).  Demographic  parameters  of  size 
and  reproductive  output  were  measured  aiinually. 
Aletes  humilis  grows  in  circular  or  elliptical  cush- 
ions. Therefore,  plant  size  was  determined  by 
measuring  two  perpendicular  diameters  once 
annually,  and  the  area  was  calculated  for  each  of 
the  tagged  individuals. 

Seed  production  was  counted  for  several  years 
and  then  estimated  for  1994  and  1995.  Counts  of 


281 


282 


283 


250 


200 

E 

0)  150 

N 
CO 

Q) 

g'lOO 

CD 

> 

< 

50 


1989    1990    1991     1992    1993    1994  1995 
Year 

Figure  3.  Area  of  tagged  Aletes  humilis  plants. 


0.8 

0) 
CD 

I  0.6 


CO 

o  0.4 

"tr 

o 

CL 

o 

a.  0.2 


1990       1991       1992       1993      1994  1995 

Year 

Figure  4.  Proportion  of  tagged  Aletes  humilis  individuals  that  flowered. 


40 
35 
30 

1  25 

2  20 

CD 
XI 

1  15 

10 


No  data 
collected 


1990  1991 


1992  1993 
Year 


1994  1995 


Figure  5.  Average  number  of  fruits  per  tagged  Aletes  humilis  plant  that 
flowered;  1994  and  1995  data  are  estimated  numbers  of  fruits. 


284 


seeds  took  a  great  deal  of  time  and  did  not  vary 
much  during  the  first  5  years  of  the  study.  There- 
fore, estimates  of  seed  production  were  made  into 
the  following  categories:  A  =  1-10,  B  =  11-100,  C  = 
101-1000,  and  D  =  greater  than  1000. 

Counts  of  all  A.  humilis  individuals  in  the  five 
populations  in  1993,  1994,  and  1995  yielded  esti- 
mates of  aggregate  sizes  of  the  combined  popula- 
tions of  1086-1285  individuals.  Thus,  about  a 
fourth  of  the  plants  at  Phantom  Canyon  Preserve 
were  tagged.  In  addition,  the  immediate  area 
around  each  of  the  tagged  A.  humilis  plants  was 
searched  intensively  for  seedlings. 

Results  and  Discussion 

The  first  5  years  of  the  study  showed  very 
little  change  in  most  demographic  variables.  Very 
little  mortality  was  observed  over  the  course  of  the 
study.  Only  1  percent  of  our  tagged  individuals 
died  annually.  The  average  half-life  of  the  tagged 
plants  was  calculated  to  be  60  years.  Thus,  A. 
humilis  appears  to  be  a  very  long  lived  plant.  In 
addition,  fewer  than  10  seedlings  were  observed  in 
any  year  during  the  study. 

Over  the  7-year  study  period,  the  average  size 
of  individual  plants  changed  very  little,  indicating 
that  the  tagged  individuals  had  attained  their 
maximum  size  (Figure  3).  Plant  growth  is  probably 
limited  by  the  small  amounts  of  soil  or  water  that 
occur  within  the  cracks  the  plants  occupy. 

Between  46  and  80  percent  of  the  tagged 
individuals  flowered  over  the  course  of  the  study, 
showing  that  the  populations  are  dominated  by 
reproductive  individuals  (Figure  4).  The  number 
of  fruits  did  vary,  especially  in  1994  and  1995 
(Figure  5).  A  late  spring  snowstorm  in  1994  at 
Phantom  Canyon  possibly  interfered  with  flower- 
ing and  reduced  seed  set.  Unusually  wet  and  cold 
spring  conditions  occurred  throughout  May  and 
June  of  1995.  During  those  years  most  of  the 
tagged  plants  did  not  flower  or  set  fruit. 

Over  the  course  of  the  study,  approximately 


20,000  A.  humilis  fruits  were  produced,  yet  we 
observed  less  than  100  seedlings.  The  fruits  of  A. 
humilis  are  rather  large  and  tend  to  fall  within  the 
plant.  Seedlings  were  most  often  found  where  a 
mature  A.  humilis  had  died.  The  lack  of  seedling 
recruitment  is  likely  a  shortage  of  safe  sites  to 
germinate  and  grow  and  the  inability  to  disperse 
to  open  safe  sites  across  steep  slopes. 

Conclusion 

Aletes  humilis  appears  to  be  a  long-lived  plant 
that  flowers  consistently  and  sets  a  modest  num- 
ber of  fruits.  Very  few  seedlings  are  found,  how- 
ever, except  in  places  where  older  individuals 
have  died.  The  limiting  factor  in  this  plant's 
survival  appears  to  be  a  lack  of  safe  sites  and  the 
inability  to  disperse  fruits  to  open  safe  sites.  If 
most  safe  sites  are  currently  occupied,  recruitment 
may  await  the  demise  of  established  A.  humilis 
individuals.  The  populations  at  Phantom  Canyon 
Preserve  are  well  established  and  even  recent  low 
recruitment  should  not  be  a  problem  due  to  the 
longevity  of  the  plants. 

The  substantial  decline  in  fruit  production 
during  1994  and  1995,  likely  due  to  unusual  spring 
weather  conditions,  is  probably  a  transient  phe- 
nomenon. We  expect  flowering  and  seed  produc- 
tion to  rebound  over  the  next  several  years.  This 
study  demonstrates  the  value  of  long-term  moni- 
toring in  understanding  the  impacts  of  unusual 
climatic  events  on  reproduction. 

Literature  Cited 

Linhart,  Y.B.,  and  A.C.  Premoli.  1993.  Genetic  variation 
in  Aletes  acaiilis  and  its  relative,  the  narrow  endemic 
A.  humilis  (Apiaceae).  American  Journal  of  Botany 
80(5):598-605. 

O'Kane,  S.L.  1988.  Colorado's  rare  flora.  Great  Basin 

Naturalist  48(4): 434-484. 
Theobald,  W.L.,  C.S.  Tseng,  and  M.E.  Mathias.  1964.  A 

revision  of  Aletes  and  Neoparrya  (Umbelliferae).  Brit- 

tonia  16:296-315. 


285 


Narrow  Endemism  in  the  New  Mexico  Flora 


ROBERT  C.  SiVINSKll  and  PAUL  J.  KNIGHT  ^ 

■'^New  Mexico  Forestry  and  Resources  Conservation  Division,  P.O.  Box  1948,  Santa  Fe  87504 
^Marron  &  Associates,  Jemez  Professional  Bldg.  #107.  3615  NM  528,  Albuquerque,  NM  87048 

Abstract:  New  Mexico  is  a  state  with  diverse  geology,  topography,  and  flora.  Approximately 
3  percent  of  the  flora  consists  of  endemic  species  with  small  geographic  ranges.  Few  of  these 
are  paleoendemics  and  most  are  recently  evolved  species.  Several  families  and  genera  have 
endemic  species;  however,  the  Asteraceae  (Erigeron),  Fabaceae  (Astragalus),  Cactaceae  (Esco- 
baria),  and  Scrophulariaceae  (Penstemon)  are  most  represented  in  the  list  of  endemic  species. 
Substrate  specialization  and  isolated  populations  in  mountain  ranges  are  important  features 
of  plant  endemism  in  New  Mexico.  The  largest  numbers  of  endemics  occur  in  the  mountains 
of  the  southern  and  western  parts  and  the  sedimentary  formations  in  the  northwestern  part 
of  the  state. 


Introduction 

New  Mexico  has  a  diverse  native  flora  that 
combines  the  species  richness  of  several  different 
regions.  The  Great  Plains,  southern  Rocky  Moun- 
tains, Great  Basin  Desert,  Chihuahuan  Desert,  and 
northern  Sierra  Madre  flora  all  converge  here. 
Wooton  and  Standley  (1915)  wrote  the  first  man- 
ual for  the  New  Mexican  flora  by  combining  their 
extensive  personal  knowledge  of  the  state  flora 
and  studying  the  collections  of  previous  explorers. 
This  collaboration  assembled  2903  plant  species 
for  the  state  and  their  Flora  of  New  Mexico  is  still  a 
valuable  reference  for  distribution  and  type  local- 
ity information.  Martin  and  Hutchins  (1980,  1981) 
produced  the  most  recent  Flora  of  New  Mexico  and 
identified  3700  plant  taxa  as  occurring  or  expected 
to  occur  in  the  state.  Since  that  publication.  New 
Mexican  botanists  have  confirmed  many  of  the 
speculated  species,  added  hundreds  of  new  state 
records,  and  discovered  several  species  new  to 
science.  The  Working  Index  of  New  Mexico  Vascular 
Plant  Names  (Roalson  and  Allred  1995)  presently 
lists  3433  species  and  3906  plant  taxa.  Several 
hundred  of  these  have  been  reduced  to  synonymy 
(Kartesz  1994),  but  we  anticipate  the  discovery  of 
several  hundred  new  state  records.  Approximately 
92  percent  of  the  New  Mexico  flora  is  native 
(Rejmanek  and  Randall  1994). 

The  study  of  rarity  and  endemism  in  the  New 
Mexico  flora  began  two  decades  ago  with  the 
passage  of  the  Endangered  Species  Act  of  1973  and 
its  subsequent  amendment  to  include  protection 
for  threatened  and  endangered  plants.  The  Hand- 
book of  Rare  and  Endemic  Plants  of  New  Mexico 
(NMNPPAC  1984)  identified  137  species  and  was 
the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  western  states  to  illus- 
trate each  species  and  provide  distribution  maps. 


This  list  has  been  revised  several  times  in  subse- 
quent years.  Spellenberg  (1993)  identifies  153 
plants  of  special  concern  and  provides  an  excellent 
discussion  on  the  causes  of  endemism,  rarity,  and 
endangerment  in  New  Mexico.  The  third  edition 
of  the  Inventory  of  Rare  and  Endangered  Plants  of 
New  Mexico  (Sivinski  aiid  Lightfoot  1995)  lists  210 
entities  that  are  endangered  or  sensitive  to  the 
prevailing  land  uses  in  New  Mexico.  The  New 
Mexico  Endangered  Plant  Species  Act  identifies 
plants  that  are  rare  and  endangered  in  New 
Mexico,  but  that  may  be  widespread  or  common 
in  adjacent  states.  Therefore,  certain  elements  of 
the  Inventory  are  artifacts  of  political  boundaries 
and  not  natural  rarities.  Surprisingly,  a  rather 
small  percentage  of  the  New  Mexico  flora  can  be 
considered  endemic  to  the  state.  We  estimate  only 
3-4  percent  of  the  taxa  have  a  sufficiently  re- 
stricted distribution  to  be  considered  narrow 
endemic  species. 

Endemic  species  are  of  special  concern  and  are 
usually  studied  within  the  context  of  the  Endan- 
gered Species  Act.  Therefore,  the  word  endemic  is 
often  confused  with  endangered.  However,  in 
New  Mexico,  rare  and  endemic  status  is  frequently 
a  prerequisite,  but  rarely  an  indicator  of  endanger- 
ment. Narrow  endemics  are  also  only  a  subset  of 
the  total  species  we  consider  rare.  Species  with 
small  geographic  range  and  narrow  habitat  speci- 
ficity comprise  only  two  of  the  seven  forms  of 
rarity  (Rabinowitz  1981).  Endemic  is  also  used  to 
describe  species  that  are  unique  to  the  area  within 
the  political  boundaries  of  a  particular  state.  How- 
ever, if  the  truth  is  told,  "state  endemic  species" 
(except  in  the  large  coastal  state  of  California) 
frequently  extend  over  the  borders  and  iiito  adja- 
cent states.  Their  significance  is  often  preserved  by 


286 


their  distributional  restriction  to  a  particular  geo- 
logic feature  that  is  shared  by  the  neighboring 
state. 

The  word  endemic  is  generally  accepted  by 
phytogeographers  to  mean  restricted  distribu- 
tionally  to  a  specific  region.  In  geographic  terms,  a 
region  can  be  rather  large  and  have  a  very  high 
percentage  of  endemic  flora.  For  instance,  there  is 
some  overlap  of  flora  between  the  Chihuahuan 
and  Sonoran  deserts,  but  for  the  most  part  their 
species  memberships  are  highly  dissimilar  and 
endemic  to  their  respective  regions.  Floristic 
regions  are  often  delimited  by  the  distribution  of 
their  dominant  endemic  flora. 

In  this  study  of  plant  endemism  in  New  Mex- 
ico, we  will  focus  on  "narrow  endemic  species," 
which  we  somewhat  arbitrarily  define  as  species 
with  total  range  length  of  less  than  100  miles  (160 
km).  The  97  narrow  endemics  listed  in  Table  1  are 
often  common  in  their  habitats  and  not  always 
strictly  confined  to  New  Mexico,  but  are  usually 
endemic  to  a  specific  geologic  outcrop  or  range  of 
mountains.  We  have  retained  a  few  obvious  sub- 
strate specialists  with  slightly  wider  distributions 
(e.g.,  Atriplex  griffithsii  Standley,  Amsonia  tharpii 
Woodson),  but  have  generally  conformed  to  the 
100-mile  limit.  We  find  that  this  criterion  includes 
almost  all  the  species  restricted  to  unique  and  dis- 
tributionally  limited  habitats.  Table  1  also  excludes 
species  with  serious  taxonomic  problems,  includ- 
ing ambiguous  taxa  that  cannot  be  relocated  at 
their  original  collection  sites  and  are  known  from 
only  a  type  specimen  {Philadelphus  wootonii  Hu, 
Rubus  aliceae  L.H.  Bailey,  Rumex  tomentellus 
Rechinger,  etc.).  Our  studies  of  narrow  endemics 
that  cross  the  state  borders  have  been  hampered 
by  the  lack  of  a  recent  floristic  manual  for  Arizona 
and  the  absence  of  a  Chihuahuan  Desert  flora 
publication.  However,  the  species  list  in  Table  1  is 
the  result  of  a  reasonable  effort  to  consult  the 
available  literature  and  represents  a  majority  of 
localized  endemics  in  New  Mexico. 

Patterns  of  New  Mexico  Endemism 

Most  of  the  features  leading  to  vascular  plant 
endemism  in  New  Mexico  have  been  thoroughly 
discussed  by  Spellenberg  (1993).  The  influences  of 
diverse  geology,  topography,  and  climate  are 
given  as  the  important  features  contributing  to 
local  speciation.  We  stress  local  speciation  because 
none  of  the  New  Mexican  narrow  endemics  can  be 
classified  as  relictual  paleoendemics.  Paleoendem- 
ics  are  described  by  Stebbins  and  Major  (1965)  as 


monospecific  or  small  genera  in  small,  phyloge- 
netically  old  plant  families.  The  monotypic  Apach- 
eria  chiricahuensis  C.T.  Mason  (Crossosomataceae) 
is  an  apparent  paleoendemic;  however,  its  200- 
mile  range  excludes  it  from  this  study.  If  we  grant 
ourselves  greater  latitude  within  larger  families, 
there  are  two  narrow  endemics  in  the  state  that  are 
relatively  ancient.  Lepidospartum  biirgessii  B.L. 
Turner  (Asteraceae)  occurs  in  gypseous,  dry  lake 
beds  of  southeastern  New  Mexico  and  adjacent 
Texas.  This  unusual  shrub  is  an  isolated  relict  and 
the  only  species  of  this  small  genus  to  occur  in  the 
Chihuahuan  Desert  region  (Turner  1977).  lonadis 
elegans  (Soreng  &  Spellenberg)  Nesom  (Astera- 
ceae) is  a  paleoendemic  in  the  White  Mountains  of 
south-central  New  Mexico.  Its  closest  relative 
occurs  in  the  northwestern  United  States.  Nesom's 
(1992)  discussion  of  lonactis  speculates  that  the 
"widely  disjunct  distributions,  and  extremely 
narrow  endemism  ...  suggest  that  the  active 
evolutionary  period  for  the  genus  occurred  in  a 
relatively  ancient  period."  The  remainder  of  our 
local  New  Mexico  endemics  are  usually  members 
of  larger  genera  and  appear  to  be  relatively  new 
species  (neoendemics)  in  proximity  to  other 
related  species. 

Spellenberg  (1993)  states  that  "the  species 
endemic  in  the  state  are  representative  of  the 
composition  of  the  state's  flora."  A  majority  of  the 
New  Mexico  flora  and  the  state's  endemic  species 
are  perennial  forbs.  The  relative  numbers  of 
succulents,  shrubs,  and  annuals  are  also  somewhat 
proportionate;  however,  no  tree  species  are 
endemic  to  the  state.  The  notion  of  representative 
composition  is  also  true  for  the  state's  plant  com- 
munities most  frequently  occupied  by  endemic 
species.  The  greatest  species  diversity  occurs  at 
intermediate  elevations  in  Interior  Chaparral  (the 
shrubby  ecotone  above  desert  scrub),  Pifion- 
Juniper  Woodlands,  and  Montane  Coniferous 
Forest  (generally  the  ponderosa  pine-Douglas  fir 
association).  The  greatest  number  of  New  Mexico 
endemics  also  occupy  these  vegetation  communi- 
ties (Table  2).  Few  endemics  occur  in  the  low 
deserts  and  higher  alpine  communities.  The  alpine 
tundra  in  northern  New  Mexico  has  a  few  species 
endemic  to  the  Southern  Rocky  Mountain  region 
but  has  no  very  narrow  endemics. 

In  a  systematic  sense,  the  concept  of  represen- 
tative composition  of  endemics  in  the  New  Mexico 
flora  is  very  uneven.  The  largest  plant  family  in 
the  state  is  the  Asteraceae,  which  also  contains  the 
largest  number  (28)  of  the  state's  endemic  species. 


287 


Table  1.  Endemic  vascular  plants  in  New  Mexico  with  total  ranges  of  less  than  100  miles. 


Taxon 

Habitat  Substrate 

Physical  Habitat 

Plant  Communities 

/\  UUCyllctLcac 

/XiiIdUiLLU  J  lA-xULCl 

i_?cwiiiLCi iLcii  y  cvji ici  1*^11  icri ci Lc 

TnH  pt"prm  in  Afp 
11  IdC LCi.  1 1  111  la  lKz 

v_i 111 lUal lUal  1  L/cbtrlL  DCrilD 

> — J  y  L/JC  W  UliJ  1111  ICO  L  Wl 

Tn  H  pf"prm  1  n  PI  tp 

I  hi nnpihnpi'n  T'^PQPT'f"  ^rriih 

V^i  Lli  LL4.C11  ILidl  L  i_yc5d  L  UU 

Asteraceae 

Owetopappa  liersheyi 

Limestone 

Cliffs 

Interior  Chaparral 

Chnjsotluimnus  nauseosus  ssp.  texensis 

Limestone 

Cliffs  and  boulders 

Interior  Chaparral 

Cirshim  ?ilense 

o 

Nonspecific 

Riparian 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Cirsium  vinaceum 

Wet  travertine 

Wetland 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Erigeron  aconianus 

Sandstone 

Shaded  canyons  and  benches 

P-J  Woodland 

Erigeron  bistiensis 

Sandy  shale 

hideterminate 

Great  Basin  Desert  Scrub 

Erigeroii  hessii 

Andesite 

Cliff  and  rock  outcrop 

Subalpine  Conifer  Forest 

Erigeron  rhizoniatiis 

Seleniferous  shale 

Indeterminate 

P-J  Woodland 

Erigeron  n/bius 

Nonspecific 

Indeterminate 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Erigeron  sivinskii 

Shale 

Indeterminate 

P-J  Woodland 

Erigeron  subglaber 

Granite 

Indeterminate 

Subalpine  Conifer  Forest 

Grindelia  acutifolia 

Shale 

Soil  disturbance 

P-J  Woodland 

Haplopappus  microcepJmlus 

Granite 

Cliffs 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Hymenoxys  brachyactis 

Nonspecific 

Indeterminate 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Hymenoxys  vasseyi 

Nonspecific 

Indeterminate 

P-J  Woodland 

lonactis  elegans 

Granite 

Cliffs  and  rock  outcrop 

Subalpine  Conifer  Forest 

Lepidospartwn  burgessii 

Gypsum 

Playa  bottom 

Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub 

Perityle  cemua 

Granite 

Shaded  cliffs 

P-J  Woodland 

Perityle  staurophylla  var.  honwflora 

Limestone 

Shaded  cliffs 

Interior  Chaparral 

Perityle  staurophylla  var.  staurophylla 

Limestone 

Shaded  cliffs 

Interior  Chaparral 

T^TH nvnnntTi'ii  1  c  t^nvmic 
I  If LUl  UyUUU Uj  yiii  UU-d 

T  impQfnnp 

3  H  pH  pi  1  f f Q 

J-1 ILCI  l\Jl  V-1  LdiJaiicil 

^pyi pnn  rnynnfiiiyif 

iJCliC-L,tU  L-i-ti  UUi  I  III  ic 

Tn  H  pt"Prm  in  ;i  fp 

N/fontAnp  r~'nnifp'r  T^r^rpcf 

ScYiccio  cytithioidcs 

Rhyolite 

Indeterminate 

P-J  Woodland 

Smecio  quaerens 

Nonspecific 

Riparian 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Senecio  neomexicanus  var.  metcalfei 

Nonspecific 

Indeterminate 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Senecio  spellenbergii 

Calcareous  balds 

Indeterminate 

Arid  Grassland 

Senecio  warnockii 

G}'psum 

Indeterminate 

Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub 

Tozvnsendia  gypsophila 

Gypsum 

Indeterminate 

Arid  Grassland 

Brassicaceae 

Draba  mogollonica 

Rhyolite 

Shaded  cliffs 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Lesquerella  aurea 

Nonspecific 

Soil  disturbance 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Streptanthus  sparsiflorus 

Limestone 

Canyon  bottoms 

Interior  Chaparral 

Cactaceae 

Escobaria  organensis 

Escobaria  sandbergii 

Escobaria  sneedii  var.  sneedii 

Escobaria  sneedii  var.  leei 

Escobaria  villardii 

Mammillaria  xvrightii  var.  loilcoxii 

Opuntia  arenaria 

Opuntia  viridiflora 

Pediocactus  knoxoltonii 

Sclerocactus  mesae-verdae 

Sclerocactus  cloveriae  subsp.  brackii 

Caryophyllaceae 

Stellaria  porsildii 

Chenopodiaceae 

Atriplex  griffithsii 
Atriplex  pleiantha 

Fabaceae 

Astragalus  accumbens 
Astragalus  altus 
Astragalus  castetteri 
Astragalus  chuskanus 
Astragalus  cobrensis  var.  maguirei 
Astragalus  cyaneus 
Astragalus  egglestonii 


Limestone 

Limestone 

Limestone 

Limestone 

Limestone 

Nonspecific 

Deep  sand 

Clayey  sand 

Cobbley  clayey  sand 

Shale 

Shale 


RhyoUte 

Alkaline  silt 
Shale 


Sandy  shale 

Nonspecific 

Limestone 

Sandstone 

Rhyolite 

Nonspecific 

Nonspecific 


Gravelly  benches 

Gravelly  benches 

Cliffs  and  rock  cracks 

Cliffs  and  rock  cracks 

Gravelly  benches,  N-facing 

Indeterminate 

Semistable  dunes 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 


Indeterminate 


Playas 

Indeterminate 


Indeterminate 

Soil  disturbance 

Indeterminate 

Bare  or  disturbed 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 


P-J  Woodland 
Interior  Chaparral 
Interior  Chaparral 
Interior  Chaparral 
Interior  Chaparral 
Interior  Chaparral 
Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub 
P-J  Woodland 
P-J  Woodland 
Great  Basin  Desert  Scrub 
Great  Basin  Desert  Scrub 


Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub 
Great  Basin  Desert  Scrub 


P-J  Woodland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
P-J  Woodland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
P-J  Woodland 
P-J  Woodland 
P-J  Woodland 


288 


Table  1  (continued) 


Taxon 

Habitat  Substrate 

Physical  Habitat 

Plant  Communities 

Astragalus  feensis 

Astragalus  gypsodes 

Astragalus  hunnllunus 

Astragalus  kerrii 

Astragalus  kniglitii 

Astragalus  neomexicanus 

Astragalus  oocalycis 

Astragalus  ripleyi 

Astragalus  siliceus 

Astragalus  wittmannii 

Lupinus  sierra-blancae 

Sophora  gypsophila  var.  guadalupensis 

Trifolium  lonvinp'i  var  neurovJiullum 

Nonspecific 

G)'psum 

Sandstone 

Granite 

Sandstone 

Nonspecific 

Seleniferous  shale 

Nonspecific 

Calcareous  gravels 

Limestone 

Nonspecific 

Gypseous  sandstone 

Nonspecific 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Cracks  and  basins 

Soil  disturbance 

Cracks  and  basms 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Riparian 

P-J  Woodland 
Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub 
Great  Basin  Desert  Scrub 
P-J  Woodland 
1  -J  Wood  land 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
P-J  Woodland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
Arid  Grassland 
Plains  Grassland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
P-J  Woodland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Hydrangeaceae 

Philadelphus  argyrocalyx 

Nonspecific 

Indeterminate 

P-J  Woodland 

Lamiaceae 

Avn<itnrhp  nrinvlpi  var  iiprtirillata 
Hedeoma  apiculata 
Hedeoma  pulclierrima 
Hedeoma  todsenii 

Monzonite 
Limestone 
Nonspecific 
Gypseous  sand 

Shaded  cliff  bases 
Shaded  cliffs 
Indeterminate 
N-facing  slope 

P-J  Woodland 
Interior  Chaparral 
Montane  Confer  Forest 
i -J  Wooaland 

Liliaceae 

Zigadenus  mogollonensis 

XT  'CI 

Nonspeanc 

Indeterminate 

Montane  Conifer  forest 

Nyctaginaceae 
Abronia  bigelovii 

Gypsum 

Indeterminate 

Arid  Grassland 

Oenothera  organensis 

Monzonite 

Riparian 

P-J  Woodland 

Papaveraceae 

Argemone  pleiucunthci  ssp.  pinnatisecta 

Limestone 

Soil  disturbance 

P-J  Woodland 

Polemoniaceae 

Gf/ifl/omzosfl 
Ipomopsis  sancti-spiritus 
Phlox  caryophylla 

Shale 

Nonspecific 
Shale 

Indeterminate 
Soil  disturbance 
Indeterminate 

P-J  Woodland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
P-J  Woodland 

Polygalaceae 

Polygala  rimulicola  var.  mescalerorum 
Pnlvcrnln  riniulirnln  var  rimulirnhi 

Limestone 
T  .impstnnp 

Shaded  cliffs 
Shaded  cliffs 

Interior  Chaparral 
Interior  Chaparral 

Polygonaceae 

T-'Ki/Ky/ifiiJTH  nlinunyii'ijffi 

l-il  lUVUfltA-liL  ULtlj  I4.U1  LLUfll 

Eriogonum  gypsophilum 
Eriogonum  jamesii  var.  wootonii 

Shale 

Gypsum 

Nonspecific 

^nil  Hicitiirbr^rirp 

Indeterminate 
Indeterminate 

Arid  Grassland 
Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Ranunodaceae 

Aquilegia  chrysantlia  var.  chaplinei 
Delphinium  novomexicanum 

Limestone 
Nonspecific 

Cliff  seeps 
Indeterminate 

Interior  Chaparral 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Rosaceae 

Potentilla  sierra-blancae 

Granite 

Indeterminate 

Subalpine  grassland 

Saxifragaceae 

Heuchera  glomerulata 

Rhyolite 

N-fadng  slopes 

Montane  Conifer  Forest 

Scrophulariaceae 

Besseya  oblongifolia 
Castilleja  organorum 
Penstenion  alamosensis 
Penstemon  cardinalis  var.  cardinalis 
Penstemon  cardinalis  var.  regalis 
Penstemon  neomexicanus 
Penstemon  pseudoparvus 
Scrophularia  laevis 
Scrophularia  macrantha 

Nonspecific 

Nonspecific 

Limestone 

Nonspecific 

Limestone 

Nonspecific 

Rhyolite 

Monzonite 

Rhyolite 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Shaded  cliffs  and  boulders 

Shaded  cliffs  and  boulders 

Shaded  cliffs  and  boulders 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Indeterminate 

Shaded  cliffs  and  boulders 

Alpine  Grassland 
P-J  Woodland 
Interior  Chaparral 
P-J  Woodland 
P-J  Woodland 
P-J  Woodland 
Montane  Conifer  Forest 
P-J  Woodland 
P-J  Woodland 

289 


Table  2.  Habitat  characteristics  of  New  Mexico  endemic 
plant  species. 


Habitat  Characteristic  No.  of  Species 


Substrate 

Limestone  23 

Igneous  17 

Shale  12 

Gypsum  and  alkali  lakes  10 

Sandstone  4 

Deep  sand  1 

Conglomerate  1 

Nonspecific  29 

Habitat  Features 

Cliffs  and  shaded,  rocky  slopes  27 

Soil  disturbance  8 

Wetland/Riparian  6 

Playa  bottom  2 

Slick-rock  basins  2 

Dunes  1 

Indeterminate  51 

Plant  Communities 

Chihuahuan  Desert  Scrub  8 

Great  Basin  Desert  Scrub  5 

Arid  Grassland  7 

Interior  Chaparral  15 

Pinon-Juniper  Woodland  34 

Montane  Coniferous  Forest  24 

Subalpine  Forest  and  Meadows  4 

Alpine  Tundra  0 


Twenty  of  these  belong  to  the  Astereae  and  Sene- 
cioneae  (Table  3).  The  relatively  large  Heliantheae 
tribe  has  no  narrow  endemics  in  New  Mexico. 

The  Poaceae  is  the  second  largest  plant  family 
in  New  Mexico,  but  it  is  not  represented  by  any 
local  endemic  species.  In  fact,  the  entire  Liliopsida 
of  New  Mexico  has  only  a  single  narrow  endemic 
{Zigadenus  mogollonensis  Hess  &  Sivinski:  Lilia- 
ceae).  Grasses,  in  general,  form  very  few  narrow 
endemic  species  as  contrasted  to  large,  western 
North  American  dicot  families.  Relatively  large 
poaceous  genera  {Poa,  Muhlenbergia,  Bouteloiia,  etc.) 
share  western  North  American  habitats  with 
rapidly  speciating  dicots  and  have  been  subjected 
to  the  same  geologic  and  climatic  regimes.  So  why 
are  there  so  few  narrow  endemic  grass  taxa?  A 
partial  answer  may  be  that  the  higher  levels  and 
frequency  of  ploidy  deviations  in  monocots  (Grant 
1981)  creates  numerous  locally  adapted  races  or 
cryptic  species  that  are  morphologically  indistin- 
guishable to  taxonomists. 


The  narrow  endemics  of  New  Mexico  repre- 
sent 20  plant  families,  49  genera,  and  97  species. 
However,  42  percent  of  the  total  species  occur  in 
only  five  genera:  Astragalus,  Erigeron,  Senecio, 
Escobaria,  and  Penstemon  (Table  3).  Shultz  (1993) 
also  identified  Astragalus,  Erigeron,  and  Penstemon 
as  genera  contributing  large  numbers  of  endemic 
species  to  the  Utah  flora.  She  reasoned  that  these 
genera  are  preadapted  to  arid  climates  and 
respond  to  desert  expansion  by  speciating  into 
new  habitats.  The  genus  Astragalus  is  especially 
important,  contributing  17  narrow  endemic 
species  to  New  Mexico  (Table  3)  and  42  (usually 
narrow)  endemic  species  to  Utah  (Schultz  1993). 
New  Mexico's  Astragalus,  Erigeron,  and  Penstemon 
endemics  are  scattered  throughout  the  state,  and 
are  not  always  associated  with  arid  habitats.  Our 
Escobaria  endemics  are  strictly  Chihuahuan  Desert 
species,  and  most  of  the  Senecio  endemics  occur  in 
the  mountains  of  the  Mogollon  Province. 

The  two  factors  with  the  greatest  influence  on 
endemism  in  New  Mexico  are  geology  and  topog- 
raphy. The  state's  geological  diversity  produces 
numerous  habitat  substrates  with  unusual  phys- 
ical and  chemical  characteristics.  These  are  often 
occupied  by  specialist  plants  that  are  occasionally 
endemic  species.  Table  2  presents  a  general  sum- 
mary of  New  Mexican  substrate  endemism.  The 
distributions  of  endemic  populations  on  sedi- 
mentary substrates  are  shown  in  Figure  1.  Species 
counted  as  substrate  nonspecific  are  those  that 
occupy  various  substrate  types  or  occur  on  mixed, 
nonresidual  soils.  Limestones  support  the  largest 
number  of  state  endemics.  Numerous  endemic 
plant  populations  occur  on  the  limestone  moun- 
tain ranges  of  southern  New  Mexico  (Guadalupe, 
Sacramento,  Organ,  San  Andres,  and  Caballo 
mountains).  A  few  limestone  endemics  are 
restricted  to  bald,  calcareous  ridges  and  knolls  in 
the  shortgrass  prairies  of  northeastern  New 
Mexico  {Astragalus  siliceus  Barneby,  Astragalus 
wittmannii  Barneby,  and  Senecio  spellejibergii  T.M. 
Barkley). 

Igneous  rocks  are  the  next  most  frequent 
substrate  occupied  by  endemic  species  in  New 
Mexico.  We  have  not  listed  the  numerous  rock 
types  (rhyolite,  granite,  monzonite,  etc.)  for  the 
Table  2  summary  because  the  narrow  endemics  on 
igneous  rocks  in  New  Mexico  do  not  appear  to  be 
substrate  specialists  (like  the  serpentine  flora  of 
California).  A  possible  exception  that  may  indicate 
mineral  specificity  is  Erigeron  liessii  Nesom,  which 
only  inhabits  andesite  dikes  that  intrude  through 


290 


N- 


New  Mexico 

?  3 


0       100  km 


109°W 


Gypsum  and 
Alkali  Lakes 

Shale  and 
Clay  Badlands 


Sandstone 


Limestone 


Figure  1.  Distribution  of  endemic  plant  species  on  sedimentary  substrates  in  New  Mexico. 


291 


Table  3.  Four  vascular  plant  families  with  the  greatest 
numbers  of  narrow  endemics  in  New  Mexico. 


Family  and  Genera 


No.  of  NM  Endemics 


Asteraceae 
Astereae 

Chaetopappa 

Chrysothamnus 

Erigeron 

Grindelia 

Haplopappus 

lonactis 

Townsendia 
Cardueae 

Cirsium 
Helenieae 

Hymenoxys 

Perityle 
Lactuceae 

Pinaropappus 
Senecioneae 

Lepidospartum 

Senecio 

Fabaceae 

Astragalus 
Lupinus 
Sophora 
Trifolium 

Cactaceae 

Escobaria 

Mammillaria 

Opuntia 

Pediocactus 

Sclerocactus 

Scrophulariaceae 
Besseya 
Castilleja 
Penstemon 
Scrophularia 


28 
13 
1 
1 
7 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
5 
2 
3 
1 
1 
7 
1 
6 

20 
17 
1 
1 
1 

11 
5 
1 
2 
1 
2 

9 
1 
1 
5 
2 


the  rhyolitic  country  rock  of  the  Mogollon  Moun- 
tains. Other  endemics  on  igneous  rocks  may  only 
require  specific  physical-textural  qualities.  For 
instance,  Haplopappus  microcephalus  Cronquist  is 
restricted  to  easily  weathered  (crumbly)  forms  of 
granite  in  north-central  New  Mexico. 

The  most  specialized  narrow  endemics  in  the 
state  occur  on  sedimentary  formations  of  shale, 
gypsum,  and  sandstone.  Shale  habitats  (including 
sandy  clays  and  silts)  have  the  next  highest  pro- 
portion of  sedimentary  substrate  endemism  after 
limestone  (Table  2).  Most  occur  on  the  numerous 
and  varied  shale  formations  in  the  northwestern 
quarter  of  New  Mexico.  Shales  in  the  Mancos  and 


Fruitland  formations  in  San  Juan  County  and  the 
Chinle  Formation  in  McKinley  County  are  impor- 
tant endemic  plant  substrates.  Astragalus  oocalycis 
M.E.  Jones  and  Erigeron  rhizomatus  Cronquist  can 
be  further  subdivided  into  seleniferous  shale  en- 
demics. We  base  this  conclusion  on  the  consistent 
strong  odor  of  selenium  in  their  habitats  and  the 
presence  of  other  common  selenophiles  {Astragalus 
flavus  Nuttall,  Astragalus  albulus  Wooton  &  Stand - 
ley,  etc.).  Two  endemics  {Eriogonum  aliquantum 
Reveal  and  Grindelia  acutifolia  Steyermark)  occur 
on  shale  at  the  interface  of  the  shortgrass  prairie 
and  the  Rocky  Mountains  in  northeastern  New 
Mexico. 

Central  and  southeastern  New  Mexico  have 
several  large  gypsum  formations  that  support 
numerous  endemic  plant  species.  A  few  endemic 
gypsophiles,  such  as  Astragalus  gypsodes  Barneby 
and  Eriogonum  gypsophilum  Wooton  &  Standley  in 
the  southeastern  part  of  the  state,  occur  on  rela- 
tively pure  forms  of  gypsum.  Other  gypsum 
endemics  prefer  gypseous  soils  with  other  sand  or 
silt  components.  For  instance,  Townsendia  gypso- 
phila  Lowrey  &  Knight  in  north-central  New  Mex- 
ico can  occur  on  relatively  pure  Todilto  Gypsum, 
but  it  reaches  its  greatest  population  densities  on 
the  sandy,  gypseous  soils  at  the  interface  of  the 
Todilto  and  overlaying  Morrison  Formation. 
Amsonia  tharpii  on  our  southeastern  limestones 
inhabits  rare  geologic  transitions  where  gypsum 
grades  into  dolomite.  Sometimes  the  gypsum 
component  of  these  habitats  is  not  evident.  Previ- 
ous laboratory  analysis  of  Sophora  gypsophila  var. 
guadalupensis  Turner  &  Powell  substrates  in  the 
Guadalupe  Mountains  on  the  New  Mexico /Texas 
border  found  no  gypsum  in  the  root  zone  of  this 
endemic  shrub  (Northington  1976).  Our  New 
Mexico  surveys  for  this  plant  found  it  in  associa- 
tion with  low  densities  of  the  strict  gypsophile 
Tiquilia  hispidissima  (Torr.  &  Gray)  A.  Richardson 
and  completely  confined  to  fine  sand,  sandstone 
lenses  that  our  laboratory  determined  to  be  1 
percent  gypsum.  Because  gypsum  is  relatively 
insoluble,  an  increase  of  solid-phase  gypsum 
beyond  a  few  percent  has  no  further  effect  on 
gypsum  concentration  of  the  soil  solution  (Meyer 
1986).  Therefore,  this  small  gypsum  content  of  the 
Sophora  gypsophila  var.  guadalupensis  habitat  sub- 
strate may  have  played  a  significant  role  in  the 
persistence  of  this  disjunct  variety  in  the  Guada- 
lupe Mountains. 

New  Mexico  has  numerous  gypsophilic 
species  that  are  regionally  endemic,  but  are  not 
included  in  this  study  because  their  range  greatly 


292 


exceeds  100  miles.  Of  the  few  species  with  very 
small  ranges,  four  occur  on  the  Castle  and  White 
Horse  formations  in  southeastern  New  Mexico, 
one  on  the  south-central  Yeso  Formation,  and  two 
on  the  Todilto  Formation  in  the  north-central  part 
of  the  state.  Other  gypseous  habitats  include  alka- 
line playas  in  the  dry  beds  of  large,  pluvial  lakes. 
The  previously  mentioned  Lepidospartum  biirgessii 
occupies  the  gypseous  playas  in  the  Alkali  Lakes 
Basin  in  southeastern  New  Mexico  and  adjacent 
Texas.  Atriplex  griff ithsii  occurs  in  the  alkaline 
Deming  and  Lordsburg  playas  of  southwestern 
New  Mexico  and  the  Wilcox  Play  a  in  adjacent 
Arizona. 

Only  a  few  species  are  strictly  endemic  to 
sandstone  {Erigeron  acomanus  Spellenberg  & 
Knight,  Astragalus  chuskanus  Barneby  &  Spellen- 
berg, Astragalus  humillimus  A.  Gray,  and  Astragalus 
knightii  Barneby),  and  all  four  occur  in  northwest- 
em  New  Mexico  (Figure  1).  The  latter  two  Astrag- 
ali are  dependent  upon  cracks  and  shallow  basins 
that  collect  soil  and  water  on  slickrock  sandstones. 

Six  of  our  narrow  endemic  species  occur  on 
wet  soils  in  wet  meadows  or  riparian  margins 
(Table  2).  We  have  no  endemic  aquatic  species. 
Soil  disturbance  is  another  habitat  feature  for  eight 
of  our  endemic  plants.  Two  of  these  plants  require 
active  soil  erosion  and  deposition  to  maintain 
suitable  habitats.  Astragalus  kerrii  Knight  et  Cully 
in  the  Capitan  Mountains  and  Argemone  pleiacantha 
subsp.  pinnatisecta  Ownbey  in  the  Sacramento 
Mountains  are  both  inhabitants  of  the  sand  bars 
and  banks  that  are  deposited  by  floods  in  drainage 
channels  that  are  otherwise  dry.  They  appear  to  be 
preadapted  to  man-made  disturbance  as  they 
frequently  occupy  the  sides  of  roads  that  intersect 
their  habitats.  Astragalus  kerrii  was  initially  discov- 
ered in  a  disturbed  site  (Knight  and  Cully  1991) 
and  the  type  collection  was  taken  from  a  trailhead 
parking  lot.  Only  one  of  our  narrow  endemics 
{Opimtia  arenaria  Engelmann)  occurs  on  deep  sand 
or  sand  dunes,  which  are  also  unstable  habitats. 

The  diverse  topography  of  New  Mexico 
includes  many  isolated  mountain  ranges  and  shel- 
tered cliffs  in  numerous  canyons  and  escarpments 
where  we  find  many  of  our  endemic  species.  More 
than  a  quarter  of  our  narrow  endemic  plants  occur 
on  cliffs  or  steep,  shaded  slopes  (Table  2).  Shel- 
tered topographic  extremes  probably  serve  as 
refugia  for  mesic  habitat  species  during  drying 
trends  in  the  regional  climate.  This  process  results 
in  isolated  populations,  which  are  susceptible  to 
local  speciation  by  mutation  or  genetic  drift. 
Whole  mountain  ranges  with  their  cooler,  wetter 


climates  also  serve  as  points  of  isolation  iii  vast 
areas  of  surrounding  deserts.  Each  major  range  of 
mountains  in  the  arid,  southern  part  of  the  state 
has  two  or  more  endemic  plant  species  (Figure  2). 
The  Guadalupe-Sacramento-Capitan  chain  of 
mountain  ranges  have  sedimentary  and  igneous 
substrates  with  an  especially  large  number  (29)  of 
locally  endemic  taxa,  many  of  which  are  shared 
with  Texas.  The  adjacent  Organ-San  Andres- 
Caballo  mountains  are  less  massive,  but  they  also 
have  sedimentary  and  igneous  substrates  with  13 
endemic  taxa  (a  few  are  shared  with  the  Sacra- 
mento Mountains).  The  Mogollon  province  of 
western  New  Mexico  and  eastern  Arizona  is 
almost  entirely  volcanic  in  origin  and  is  not 
conducive  to  substrate  specialists.  This  province  is, 
however,  a  large  area  of  mountain  ranges  at  the 
juncture  of  several  floristic  regions.  These  moun- 
tains are  a  melting  pot  for  the  flora  of  the  southern 
Rocky  Mountains,  northern  Sierra  Madre  Occiden- 
tale,  upland  Sonoran  and  Chihuahuan  deserts,  and 
the  southern  Great  Basin  Desert  influence.  The 
Mogollon  Province  in  New  Mexico  has  12  endemic 
taxa,  many  of  which  are  shared  with  Arizona. 

Northern  New  Mexico  has  numerous  large 
mountain  ranges,  but  they  support  fewer  endemic 
species.  At  the  southern  end  of  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains, the  massive  Sangre  de  Cristo  range  has  both 
limestone  and  igneous  substrates,  yet  there  are 
only  three  plaiits  endemic  to  this  range.  The  Zuni 
Mountains  are  a  small,  isolated  sedimentary  and 
igneous  range  that  also  have  three  endemic 
species. 

The  totals  for  occurrence  by  county  of  New 
Mexican  endemic  plants  are  shown  in  Figure  3. 
Because  so  few  of  these  plants  are  ancient  relicts. 
Figure  3  illustrates  the  general  patterns  of  specia- 
tion into  distributionally  limited  habitats.  The 
greatest  density  of  narrow  endemic  species  is  in 
south-central  and  southeastern  New  Mexico, 
mostly  associated  with  isolated  mountain  ranges 
and  pluvial  basins  that  offer  limestone,  gypsum, 
and  igneous  substrates  over  a  broad  range  of 
elevations.  While  substrate  specialization  may  be 
important  in  this  area,  mountain  range  isolation  is 
the  key  feature  for  endemism  in  the  southern 
region  of  the  state.  The  Mogollon  Province  of 
western  New  Mexico  is  the  second  most  diverse 
area  for  narrow  endemic  plants.  It  is  also  a  rela- 
tively isolated  suite  of  mountain  ranges.  Most  of 
our  sandstone  and  shale  endemics  occur  on  the 
Great  Basin  and  Colorado  Plateau  geology  in  the 
northwestern  part  of  the  state.  This  is  consistent 
with  the  high  level  of  recent  speciation  observed 


293 


Figure  2.  New  Mexico  mountain  ranges  with  two  or  more  narrow  endemic  plant  species. 


294 


New  Mexico 

0         50      100  km 


Figure  3.  Numbers  of  endemic  plant  species  by  county  in  New  Mexico. 


295 


on  sedimentary  substrates  in  adjacent  Utah  (Shultz 
1993).  Numbers  of  endemic  plants  taper  off  grad- 
ually to  the  northeast  and  abruptly  at  the  east- 
central  part  of  the  state.  In  fact,  east-central  New 
Mexico  has  not  a  single  endemic  plant  to  call  its 
own.  The  eastern  area  is  mostly  homogeneous 
prairie.  However,  it  is  also  the  least  botanically 
explored  area  of  the  state.  Perhaps,  waiting  to  be 
found  there,  are  species  new  to  science.  As  New 
Mexico  becomes  better  explored  by  botanists,  we 
are  certain  that  new  endemic  species  will  continue 
to  come  to  light. 

Literature  Cited 

Grant.  V.  1981.  Plant  Speciation.  Columbia  University 
Press,  NY. 

Kartesz,  J.T.  1994.  A  Synonymized  Checklist  of  the 
Vascular  Flora  of  the  United  States,  Canada,  and 
Greenland.  2  Vols.  Biota  of  North  America  Program, 
North  Carolina  Botanical  Garden,  Timber  Press, 
Portland,  OR. 

Knight,  P.J.  and  A.C.  Cully.  1991.  A  new  species  of 
Astragalus  (Fabaceae)  from  Southeastern  New  Mex- 
ico. Southwestern  Naturalist  36:198-200. 

Martin,  W.C.  and  C.R.  Hutchins.  1980,  1981.  A  Flora  of 
New  Mexico.  Cramer,  Vaduz,  Germany,  2  Vols. 

Meyer,  S.E.  1986.  The  ecology  of  gypsophile  endemism 
in  the  eastern  Mohave  Desert.  Ecology  67:1303-1313. 

Nesom,  G.L.  1992.  Transfer  of  Chaetopappa  elegans  to 
lonactis  (Asteraceae:  Astereae).  Phytologia  73:416- 
424. 

New  Mexico  Native  Plants  Protection  Advisory  Com- 
mittee (NMNPPAC).  1984.  A  Handbook  of  Rare  and 
Endemic  Plants  of  New  Mexico.  University  of  New 
Mexico  Press,  Albuquerque. 

Northington,  O.K.  1976.  Evidence  bearing  on  the  origin 
of  infraspecific  disjunction  in  Sophora  gypsophila 
(Fabaceae).  Plant  Systematics  and  Evolution  125:233- 
244. 


Rabinowitz,  D.  1981.  Seven  forms  of  rarity.  In  H.  Synge, 
editor.  The  Biological  Aspects  of  Rare  Plant  Conser- 
vation. J.  Wiley  &  Sons,  New  York. 

Rejmanek,  M.  and  J.M.  Randall.  1994.  Invasive  alien 
plants  in  California:  1993  summary  and  comparison 
with  other  areas  in  North  America.  Madrono  41:161- 
177. 

Roalson,  E.H.  and  K.W.  Allred  1995.  A  Working  Index 
of  New  Mexico  Plant  Names.  Agricultural  Experi- 
ment Station,  Research  Report  702,  New  Mexico 
State  University,  Las  Cruces.  254  pp. 

Shultz,  L.  1993.  Patterns  of  endemism  in  the  Utah  flora. 
In  R.  Sivinski  and  K.  Lightfoot  editors.  Southwestern 
Rare  and  Endangered  Plants.  New  Mexico  Forestry 
and  Resources  Conservation  Division,  Misc.  Publ. 
No.  2.  390  pp. 

Sivinski,  R.  and  K.  Lightfoot.  1995.  Inventory  of  Rare 
and  Endemic  Plants  of  New  Mexico,  3rd  edition. 
New  Mexico  Forestry  and  Resources  Conservation 
Division,  Misc.  Publ.  No.  4.  47  p. 

Spellenberg.  R.W.  1993.  Species  of  special  concern.  In 
Dick-Peddie,  W.A.  New  Mexico  Vegetation:  Past, 
Present,  and  Future.  University  of  New  Mexico 
Press,  Albuquerque. 

Stebbins,  G.L.  and  J.  Major.  1965.  Endemism  and  specia- 
tion in  the  California  flora.  Ecological  Monographs 
35:1-35. 

Turner,  B.L.  1977.  Lepidospartum  biirgessii  (Asteraceae, 
Senecioneae),  a  remarkable  new  gypsophilic  species 
from  Trans-Pecos  Texas.  Wrightia  5:354-355. 

Wooton,  E.O.  and  P.C.  Standley.  1915.  Flora  of  New 
Mexico.  U.S.  National  Herbarium,  Vol.  19,  Smith- 
sonian Institution.  (Reprints  of  U.S.  Floras,  J.  Cramer, 
New  York). 


296 


Preliminary  Results  of  Toumeya  Papyracantha  Surveys  on  the  Lakeside 
Ranger  District,  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests,  Arizona 

EARL  H.  KLEIN 

Lakeside  Ranger  District,  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests,  Route  3,  Box  B-50,  Lakeside,  AZ  85929 

Abstract:  Toumeya  papyracantha  (Engelm.)  Britt  &  Rose  was  first  documented  on  the  Lakeside 
Ranger  District  (LRD)  in  the  1930's.  In  1993  a  concerted  effort  to  determine  its  distribution 
and  abundance  on  the  LRD  was  undertaken.  These  efforts  resulted  in  26  new  locations  and 
720  individuals.  Fourteen  100-foot  radius  plots  were  established  around  previous  cactus  loca- 
tions, and  diameters  and  reproductive  evidence  were  collected.  Two  plots  were  monitored  in 
1995  to  gather  reproductive  information.  Densities  ranged  from  3  to  161  individuals  per  plot. 
Diameters  ranged  from  2.9  mm  to  32.4  mm.  Reproductive  characteristics  are  given  by  diame- 
ter size  class.  An  average  of  55  percent  of  all  individuals  of  flowering  size  produced  at  least 
one  bud.  Fruiting  bodies  were  produced  by  71  percent  of  those  individuals  that  produced 
buds.  Occurrence  of  this  cactus  shows  a  strong  correlation  to  soil  mapping  units  on  the  LRD. 
Cactus  locations  have  been  subjected  to  juniper  cabling,  pushing,  burning,  and  high-intensity, 
short-duration  grazing  in  the  past.  Livestock  grazing  is  substantially  less  than  it  was  histori- 
cally, but  it  still  occurs. 


Introduction 

The  grama  cactus  {Toumeya  papyracantha  (En- 
gelm.) Britt  &  Rose)  was  first  documented  within 
the  boundaries  of  the  Lakeside  Ranger  District 
(LRD)  in  the  1930s  (Kearny  and  Peebles  1942).  It 
was  not  until  1993  that  a  concerted  effort  was 
directed  towards  determining  the  distribution  and 
abundance  on  the  LRD.  This  cactus  has  been  con- 
sidered a  Forest  Service  sensitive  species  within 
Region  3  for  some  time  (USES  1990)  and  has 
received  some  type  of  federal  classification  by  the 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  almost  since  the 
inception  of  the  Endangered  Species  Act  of  1973. 

Intensive  surveys  were  initiated  in  1992  on  the 
Heber  Ranger  District  (adjacent  and  to  the  west  of 
LRD)  for  this  species  along  the  Highway  277  right- 
of-way.  Approximately  205  groups  were  found. 
This  provided  the  impetus  for  attempting  to  deter- 
mine its  presence  on  the  LRD.  What  began  as  an 
effort  to  simply  determine  presence  evolved  into  a 
project  to  gather  information  regarding  densities, 
diameters,  reproduction,  habitat  characteristics, 
and  range  of  this  species  on  the  LRD. 

Methods 

The  LRD  had  made  cursory  attempts  to  search 
for  this  cactus  in  the  past  to  address  project  im- 
pacts, and  intensive  surveys  for  this  species  were 
undertaken  in  1993.  Between  1993  and  1995,  three 
methods  were  used  to  search  for  this  cactus:  a  grid 
of  east-west  transects,  searching  6  feet  to  either 
side  of  randomly  selected  Parker  3-step  range  tran- 
sects, and  random  searches. 


East-west  grid  searches  were  established  to 
specifically  clear  a  juniper  push  project  on  300 
acres.  Twenty  variable-length  transects  (2500-7200 
feet),  approximately  200  feet  apart,  were  estab- 
lished using  a  hip  chain  and  compass.  Surveyors 
searched  6  feet  to  each  side  of  the  transect  line. 

A  modified  Parker  3-step  transect  100  feet  in 
length  was  used  to  collect  resource  data  for  an 
ecosystem  unit  encompassing  the  west  half  of  the 
LRD.  Transects  were  located  randomly,  but  were 
stratified  to  sample  the  various  habitat  types  and 
vegetative  structural  stages  within  the  unit.  Start- 
ing coordinates  for  each  transect  were  derived 
from  the  District's  Geographic  Information  System 
(GIS)  and  then  were  located  on  the  ground  using  a 
Geographic  Positioning  System  (GPS).  During  the 
reading  of  these  transects,  a  6-foot  area  to  each 
side  of  the  transect  was  searched  for  this  species. 
The  crew  surveying  the  Parker  3-step  transects 
also  conducted  random  searches  for  this  species 
between  transects,  as  well  as  in  areas  where  no 
transects  were  scheduled,  but  which  potentially 
provided  habitat  for  this  species. 

Fourteen  circular  plots  with  a  radius  of  100 
feet  were  established  in  1994  around  cactus  lo- 
cations found  in  1993  or  1994.  A  "location"  is  a 
siting  of  one  or  more  individuals  that  are  not 
necessarily  reproductively  isolated  from  individ- 
uals in  another  location.  Using  GPS,  previously 
found  individuals  were  relocated  and  the  plot 
center  was  established  by  placing  a  section  of 
rebar  2  feet  directly  south  of  the  first  cactus  re- 
located. Intensive  searches  were  conducted  at 


297 


approximately  8  degree  intervals  along  a  100-foot 
tape  stretched  from  the  plot  center.  This  resulted 
in  approximately  45  transects.  All  cacti  found  were 
marked  with  a  wire  flag.  At  the  completion  of  the 
search,  the  distance  and  compass  bearing  were 
recorded  for  each  plant.  The  diameter  (mm)  was 
measured  using  calipers,  and  whether  the  plant 
had  a  bud,  bloom,  or  fruiting  body  was  recorded. 
Occasionally  an  individual  was  found  immedi- 
ately adjacent  to  the  plot  boundary.  Information 
that  was  recorded  for  these  individuals  was  used 
in  the  analysis  of  diameters  and  reproduction,  but 
not  included  in  the  relative  density  estimates. 

Data  on  reproductive  status  were  collected  in 
1994  and  1995.  Since  some  of  the  field  work  in 
1994  was  conducted  outside  of  the  normal  repro- 
ductive season  for  this  species,  only  those  plots 
where  data  were  collected  between  April  18  and 
June  30  are  considered.  Detailed  information 
regarding  flowering  and  production  of  fruiting 
bodies  was  collected  for  only  one  plot  in  1994.  In 
1995,  two  plots  were  monitored  specifically  to 
obtain  information  regarding  flowering  and  fruit 
production. 

Habitat  characteristics  were  summarized  for 
the  areas  with  grama  grass  cactus  to  determine  if 
suitable  habitat  could  be  better  defined.  Both 
positive  and  negative  searches  conducted  for  this 
species  between  1993  and  1995  were  compared  to 
mapping  units  described  in  the  Terrestrial  Eco- 
systems Survey  (TES)  of  the  Apache-Sitgreaves 
National  Forests  (USDA  1986).  Four  Parker  3-step 
transects  for  each  of  the  14  plots  were  used  to 
collect  vegetation  data.  Piny  on/juniper  canopy 
cover,  as  determined  from  1994  aerial  photos,  was 
determined  for  occupied  areas. 

District  records  were  reviewed  to  determine 
past  land-use  history  for  two  allotments  in  which 
grama  grass  cactus  occurs. 

Results 

Presence 

The  search  for  grama  grass  cactus  using  the 
east-west  grid  method  was  negative.  Based  on  our 
present  knowledge,  much  of  the  area  surveyed 
was  not  suitable  grama  grass  cactus  habitat  due  to 
the  amount  of  pinyon-juniper  canopy  cover.  The 
cactus  was  found  on  only  4  of  the  40  transects  that 
occurred  within  pinyon-juniper  woodlands  and 
grasslands.  However,  almost  half  of  these  tran- 
sects were  in  areas  that,  due  to  the  amount  of  pin- 
yon-juniper canopy  cover,  were  not  cactus  habitat. 

Thirty-eight  random  surveys  using  the  Parker 
3-step  transects  resulted  in  eight  cactus  locations. 


An  additional  42  random  searches  conducted  in 
1994  resulted  in  14  more  locations.  Eighteen  of  the 
42  random  transects  were  specifically  targeted  to 
sample  other  TES  soil  mapping  units  different 
from  those  that  had  been  identified  with  grama 
grass  cactus  locations.  Thus,  between  1993  and 
1995,  a  total  of  26  new  locations  for  the  grama 
grass  cactus  were  established  for  the  LRD,  repre- 
senting a  total  of  720  individuals.  Coordinates  for 
all  locations  except  one  were  recorded  using  GPS. 

Diameters 

In  total,  694  diameters  from  individual  cacti 
were  recorded,  ranging  from  2.9  mm  to  32.4  mm, 
with  the  greatest  number  of  individuals  being 
between  5.0  and  9.9  mm  (Table  1).  The  average 
diameter  was  13.1  mm. 

Phillips  et  al.  (1982)  reported  diameters  for  20 
individuals,  ranging  from  4  mm  to  15  mm  with  an 
average  of  9  mm.  Button  (1987)  provided  diame- 
ters for  303  individuals  in  seven  "subpopulations" 
on  Bureau  of  Land  Management  land  in  Navajo 
County,  Arizona.  The  average  diameter  for  But- 
ton's plants  (Table  2)  and  those  we  measured  is 
similar  (12.9  and  13.1  mm).  However,  Button's 
sample  was  composed  of  a  significantly  higher 
percentage  of  the  smallest  size  class  (24%  to  4%) 
and  a  significantly  lower  percentage  of  both  the 
10-14.9  mm  size  class  (16%  to  30%)  and  the  15- 
19.9  mm  size  class  (11%  to  23%).  Button  also 
reported  a  smaller  minimum  diameter  (1.0  mm) 
and  a  larger  maximum  diameter  (40  mm).  Ad- 
ditionally, none  of  Button's  sub-populations  had 
maximum  diameters  less  than  20  mm,  whereas  3 
of  the  14  plots  in  this  study  had  maximum  diame- 
ters smaller  than  20  mm. 

In  general,  there  appears  to  be  a  normal  distri- 
bution of  size  classes  for  the  pooled  individuals. 
One  would  expect  higher  representation  of  the 
smallest  size  class,  but  a  lack  in  this  group  is  prob- 
ably attributable  to  the  difficulty  of  finding  them. 

Density 

The  grama  grass  cactus  is  colonial  in  nature 
and  is  found  in  small  groups  unevenly  dispersed 
throughout  what  appears  to  be  suitable  habitat 
(Sivinski  and  Lightfoot  1994).  Because  of  the  high- 
ly cryptic  nature  of  this  cactus,  reliable  density 
estimates  are  extremely  difficult  to  make,  and 
published  estimates  are  almost  nonexistent.  For 
example,  two  plots  (9  and  14)  had  initial  known 
populations  of  58  and  100  respectively,  but  when 
monitored  in  1995  for  reproductive  information, 
an  additional  15  and  13  individuals  were  found. 


298 


Table  1.  Summary  of  diameters  (in  mm)  taken  from  100-foot  radius  plots  on  Lakeside  Ranger  District,  Navajo 
County  in  1994-95  for  Toumeya  papyracantha . 


Total 

Plot  No.     Min.        Max.       Avg.        0-4.9        5-9.9       10-14.9     15-19.9     20-24.9       25+  Cactus 


1 

7.9 

28.1 

14.7 

0 

2 

5 

2 

1 

1 

11 

2 

5.8 

25.2 

15.6 

0 

5 

9 

5 

6 

2 

27 

3 

7.5 

17 

12.6 

0 

3 

3 

3 

0 

0 

9 

4 

7 

16.9 

11.1 

0 

4 

4 

2 

0 

0 

10 

5 

4 

27.1 

16.5 

1 

4 

10 

12 

9 

3 

39 

6 

2.9 

30.1 

14.3 

1 

12 

15 

14 

7 

2 

51 

7 

5.2 

25.9 

13.6 

0 

27 

30 

26 

9 

2 

94 

8 

4.1 

29.9 

13.6 

3 

13 

13 

10 

4 

2 

45 

9 

3.1 

26.5 

10.2 

9 

36 

11 

10 

5 

2 

73 

10 

3.2 

32.4 

11.4 

7 

63 

50 

35 

3 

2 

160 

11 

5 

26 

12.2 

0 

10 

8 

5 

1 

1 

25 

12 

5 

18.9 

14.2 

0 

1 

0 

2 

0 

0 

3 

13 

4.8 

25.1 

11.8 

1 

13 

14 

3 

2 

1 

34 

14 

3 

27.7 

13.6 

3 

31 

37 

27 

12 

3 

113 

Total  Number  of  Plants 

25 

224 

209 

156 

59 

21 

694 

Average  Number  of  Plants  per  Plot 

1.79 

16.00 

14.93 

11.14 

4.21 

1.50 

49.57 

Table  2.  Summary  of  diameters  (in  mm)  based  on  data  collected  by  Claire  Button  (1987)  on  Bureau  of 
Land  Management  lands  for  Toumeya  papyracantha. 


Total 

Plot  No.  Min. 

Max. 

Avg. 

0-4.9 

5-9.9 

10-14.9     15-19.9  20-24.9 

25+ 

Cactus 

1.0 

1.0 

28.0 

10.4 

25 

26 

19 

16 

11 

2 

99 

2.0 

2.0 

25.0 

10.4 

6 

9 

3 

2 

4 

1 

25 

3.0 

21.0 

21.0 

21.0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

4.0 

2.0 

30.0 

7.8 

11 

8 

2 

0 

0 

3 

24 

5.0 

1.0 

34.0 

9.6 

10 

23 

6 

4 

3 

3 

49 

6.0 

13.0 

29.0 

21.3 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

1 

3 

7.0 

1.0 

40.0 

9.8 

20 

43 

18 

12 

6 

3 

102 

Total  Number  of  Plants 

72 

109 

49 

34 

26 

13 

303 

Average  Number  of  Plants  per  Plot 

10.3 

15.6 

7.0 

4.9 

3.7 

1.9 

43.3 

As  such,  the  estimates  given  here  as  well  as  those 
used  for  comparison  should  not  be  considered 
definitive.  The  densities  found  in  LRD  are  similar 
or  higher  than  what  has  been  found  in  other  areas 
by  other  authors. 

Densities  ranged  from  a  high  of  5.52/100  m^  to 
a  low  of  0.10/100  m^  (Figure  1).  Average  density 
for  all  plots  was  1.61/100  m2.  Phillips  et  al.  (1982) 
found  59  plants  in  an  area  of  approximately  15,000 
m2  (0.39/100  m2).  Fletcher  and  Moir  (1993)  re- 


ported 54  plants  from  an  area  of  300  x  75  meters 
(0.24/100  m2).  Sivinski  and  Lightfoot  (1994)  re- 
ported that  173  individuals  were  salvaged  from  a 
200  m  X  20  m  area  in  New  Mexico  (1.5/100  m^). 
Wagner  and  Sabo  (1977)  reported  finding  30 
individuals  in  an  area  15  m  x  20  m  (10/100  m^). 
Fletcher  (1985)  reported  finding  26  plants  in  an 
area  25  m  x  10  m  and  20  plants  in  an  area  12  m  x 
200  m  for  relative  densities  of  10.4/100  m^  and 
0.83/100  m2  respectively. 


299 


12- 


Fie 


10- 


e- 


6- 


4- 


cher  (1985) 


Wagner  (1977) 


Sivinski  (1994)  ^ 

Bl 

Fletcher  (1985) 


Phillips  (1982) 


Fletcher  (1993) 


"1  r 

10  14 


n        I  r 

7  9  6 


1  r 

8  5 


13 


11 


LRD  Plot  Number 


LRD  Plots 
Other  Reports 


12 


Figure  1.  Comparison  of  LRD  grama  cactus  densities  to  densities  calculated  from  data  presented  in  other 
reports  {Toumeya  papyracantha  density  per  100  square  meters). 


Densities  among  plots  varied  widely.  Three 
plots  had  densities  lower  than  any  derived  from 
the  literature  and  used  for  comparison.  The  aver- 
age density  for  the  pooled  plots  exceeded  four  of 
the  six  comparison  densities.  Two  inherent  prob- 
lems exist  in  these  density  comparisons.  First,  it  is 
unknown  if  the  areas  reported  by  the  other 
authors  represent  bounds  established  by  cactus 
found  or  area  surveyed.  The  other  problem  lies  in 
how  our  plots  were  established.  By  establishing 
the  plot  center  at  the  first  cactus  encountered,  it  is 
possible  that  the  plot  could  be  centered  on  the 
perimeter,  not  the  center,  of  a  colony.  The  size  of 
plot,  however,  was  felt  to  compensate  somewhat 
for  this  possibility. 

Reproduction 

The  smallest  individual  to  produce  a  bud  was 
5.7  mm  in  diameter,  while  two  individuals  with 
diameters  of  30.1  and  25.9  mm  produced  five  buds 
each  (Table  3).  Our  data  indicate  that,  in  general, 
the  smaller  the  individual  the  fewer  buds  pro- 


duced. An  average  production  of  one  bud  per 
individual  is  not  achieved  until  after  reaching  15 
mm  in  diameter.  The  percentage  of  individuals  in 
a  size  class  with  buds  also  increased  with  size:  26 
percent  of  5-9.9  mm,  58  percent  of  10-14.9  mm,  77 
percent  of  15-19.9,  98  percent  of  20-24.9  mm  and 
92  percent  25  mm  or  greater.  An  average  of  55  per- 
cent of  all  individuals  of  flowering  size  produced 
at  least  one  bud.  Reproduction  at  LRD  was  within 
the  range  of  levels  of  reproduction  presented  by 
other  authors.  Phillips  et  al.  (1982)  reported  only 
one  of  the  59  plants  they  measured  was  reproduc- 
tive and  37  were  non-reproductive;  the  rest  were 
seedlings.  They  noted  that  the  sampling  dates  did 
not  allow  for  an  accurate  determination  of  repro- 
ductive status.  Button  (1987)  found  only  one  indi- 
vidual out  of  297  had  fruit  and  seed.  She  stated 
that  plants  as  small  as  14  mm  in  diameter  were 
found  with  dried  flowers.  She  felt  that  smaller 
plants  tended  to  have  fewer  flowers,  though  this 
data  was  not  recorded.  Fletcher  and  Moir  (1993) 
probably  provide  the  most  information  regarding 


300 


Table  3.  Summary  of  buds  by  size  class,  recorded  from  100-foot  radius  plots  on  Lakeside  Ranger  District 
during  1994  and  1995  for  Toumeya  papyracantha . 


Size 

Plot 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Total  No. 

Total  No. 

Average 

Class  (mm) 

No. 

Buds /Cactus 

Buds /Cactus 

per  Cactus 

of  Buds 

of  Cactus 

Diameter 

0  to  4.9 

3 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

5 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

4 

6 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2.9 

7 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

9 

0 

0 

0 

0 

9 

3.6 

14 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2.9 

Totals 

SC-1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

12 

3.4 

n  to  9  9 

3 

0 

1 

0.00 

1 

3 

8.1 

4 

0 

1 

0.50 

2 

4 

7.8 

5 

0 

1 

0.25 

1 

4 

8.6 

6 

0 

2 

0.25 

3 

12 

7.2 

7 

0 

0 

0 

0 

27 

7.5 

9 

0 

1 

J. 

0.03 

1 

36 

74 

14 

0 

2 

0.35 

11 

31 

7.8 

Totals 

SC-2 

0 

2 

0.16 

19 

117 

9.1 

10.0  to  14.9 

3 

0 

2 

1.00 

3 

3 

13.1 

4 

0 

1 

0.25 

1 

4 

11.8 

5 

0 

1 

0.80 

8 

10 

11.7 

6 

0 

2 

1.00 

10 

10 

12.8 

7 

0 

2 

0.57 

17 

30 

12.3 

9 

0 

1 

0.27 

3 

11 

12 

14 

0 

2 

0.78 

29 

37 

12.5 

Totals 

SC-3 

0 

2 

0.68 

71 

105 

12.3 

15.0  to  19.9 

3 

0 

0 

0.00 

0 

3 

16.4 

4 

0 

2 

1.00 

2 

2 

16.2 

5 

0 

2 

1.25 

15 

12 

17.6 

6 

0 

2 

1.00 

14 

14 

17.1 

7 

0 

3 

1.58 

41 

26 

17.6 

9 

✓ 

0 

1 

040 

4 

10 

17.1 

14 

0 

1  26 

34 

27 

171 

X  /  .  X 

Totals 

SC-4 

1.17 

110 

94 

17.0 

20  0  to  24  9 

3 

0 

0 

0.00 

0 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

000 

0 

0 

0 

c; 

1 

3 

2  22 

20 

9 

Tl  2 

0 

3 

217 

13 

Tl  7 

7 

4 

300 

27 

9 

22 

Q 

0 

'X 

1  20 

21  9 

^X  >  7 

14 

1 

4 

2.00 

24 

12 

22 

Totals 

SC-5 

2.20 

90 

41 

22.2 

25  or  greater 

3 

0 

0 

0.00 

0 

0 

0 

4 

0 

0 

0.00 

0 

0 

0 

5 

3 

3 

3.00 

9 

3 

25.8 

6 

4 

5 

4.50 

9 

2 

27.6 

7 

3 

5 

4.00 

8 

2 

25.7 

9 

0 

3 

1.50 

3 

2 

26 

14 

1 

2 

1.67 

5 

3 

26.4 

Total 

SC-6 

2.83 

34 

12 

26.3 

301 


reproduction  of  this  species.  In  1986,  41  monitored 
plants  of  flowering  age  produced  23  flowers,  all 
occurring  singly  except  for  one  individual  that  had 
two.  This  would  indicate  that  54  percent  of  the 
population  was  capable  of  reproduction.  Data  for 
155  individuals  indicated  an  average  flower  pro- 
duction of  0.86  per  plant  in  1987  (Fletcher  and 
Moir  1993).  Our  data  for  369  individuals  indicate 
0.88  buds  per  individual. 

For  species  that  reproduce  primarily  through 
seed  production,  fruit  development  is  important 
for  the  continued  persistence  of  a  population.  In 
1994  we  only  collected  this  information  from  one 
plot.  We  monitored  two  plots  in  1995  to  specifi- 
cally gather  this  information  (Table  4).  Thirty-nine 
percent  of  all  buds  produced  fruits.  Of  the  141 
individuals  that  produced  a  bud,  100  produced 
fruits,  or  71  percent.  As  with  bud  production,  fruit 


production  per  individual  also  increased  with 
diameter.  Fruit  production  ranged  from  33  percent 
of  bud  production  in  the  smallest  diameter  class 
producing  buds  to  81  percent  in  the  largest.  Over 
half  of  the  buds  produced  by  plants  10  mm  in 
diameter  and  greater  produced  fruit.  Fletcher  and 
Moir  (1993)  found  68  percent  of  flowers  with  fruits 
ill  1987  and  82  percent  of  flowers  with  fruit  in  1992 
for  a  wild  population  of  this  species. 

In  this  study,  the  number  of  individuals  pro- 
ducing buds  is  similar  to  that  reported  by  other 
authors;  however,  the  number  of  buds  becoming 
fruits  is  considerably  lower  than  that  reported  by 
Fletcher  and  Moir  (1993).  Obviously  many  things 
such  as  weather  and  pollinator  activity  can  effect  a 
population's  reproductive  capability,  making  it 
tentative  at  best  to  draw  conclusions  from  one  year 
of  data  on  reproductive  health  based  on  fruiting. 


Table  4.  Summary  of  fruits  produced  by  size  class,  recorded  from  100-foot  radius  plots  on  Lakeside 
Ranger  District  during  1994  and  1995  for  Toumeya  papyracantha. 


Size 

Plot 

Minimum 

Maximum 

Average 

Total  No. 

Total  No. 

Average 

Vwid^o  ^11  111  ly 

No. 

Pn  lit  /  C^j^rh  ic; 

Fn  lit"/  C^Pi  rh  i  <^ 

Fn  lii"  /(^pirh  1*^ 

X  1  LJ.1L/  \  ^dl^LLU 

of  Fruit 

of  (""arh I's 

l~)ipimpl'Pr 

0  to  4.9 

7 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

9 

0 

0 

0 

0 

9 

3.6 

14 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

2.9 

Totals 

SC-1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

10 

2.2 

5  to  9.9 

7 

0 

0 

0.00 

0 

27 

7.5 

9 

0 

0 

0.00 

0 

36 

7.4 

14 

0 

1 

0.13 

4 

31 

7.8 

Total 

SC-2 

0 

1 

0.04 

4 

94 

7.6 

10  to  14.9 

7 

0 

2 

0.43 

13 

30 

12.3 

9 

0 

1 

0.09 

1 

11 

12 

14 

0 

2 

0.32 

12 

37 

12.5 

Totals 

SC-3 

0 

2 

0.33 

26 

78 

12.3 

15  to  19.9 

7 

0 

2 

0.92 

24 

26 

17.6 

9 

0 

1 

0.20 

2 

10 

17.1 

14 

0 

2 

0.81 

22 

27 

17.1 

Totals 

SC-4 

0 

2 

0.76 

48 

63 

17.3 

20  to  24.9 

7 

0 

2 

1.44 

13 

9 

22 

9 

0 

2 

0.60 

3 

5 

21.9 

14 

0 

3 

1.67 

20 

12 

22 

Totals 

SC-5 

0 

3 

1.38 

36 

26 

22.0 

25  or  greater 

7 

1 

4 

2.50 

5 

2 

25.7 

9 

0 

3 

1.50 

3 

2 

26 

14 

1 

2 

1.67 

5 

3 

26.4 

Totals 

SC-6 

1 

4 

1.86 

13 

7 

26.0 

302 


Soil  Mapping  Units 
Twenty-six  locations  for  this  cactus  were  re- 
corded since  1993  and  two  historical  locations 
occur  on  the  District.  Twenty-five  of  the  new 
locations  and  one  of  the  historical  locations  occur 
within  TES  mapping  units  05-h  and  04+  (Table  5). 
These  soils  are  sandy  loams  derived  from  lime- 
stone parent  material,  occurring  on  the  western 
portion  of  the  District  (Figure  2).  Of  the  two 
locations  found  outside  of  these  mapping  units, 
one  is  suspected  to  be  part  of  these  same  mapping 
units;  the  other  (historical)  is  on  private  land. 
Several  random  searches  as  weU  as  project-related 
intensive  searches  (Benda-Dodd  1992,  Coffman 
Associates  1993,  Klein  1995,  SWCA,  Inc.  1994, 
Wilhelm  1995)  have  occurred  adjacent  to  this 
historical  area  with  negative  results.  This  area  is 
located  in  mapping  unit  504  which  is  described  as 
a  silty  clay  loam  derived  from  cinder  or  basalt 
parent  material.  This  is  a  fairly  common  mapping 
unit  on  the  east  half  of  the  District.  Nineteen 
random  searches  have  been  conducted  in  what 
appeared  to  be  suitable  habitat  within  and  asso- 
ciated with  this  mapping  unit,  all  with  negative 
results. 

Based  on  our  information,  there  appears  to  be 
a  strong  relationship  between  occurrence  of  grama 
grass  cactus  on  LRD  and  soil  mapping  units  05+ 
and  04+.  This  relationship  is  further  supported  by 
the  locations  on  the  Heber  Ranger  District,  all  of 
which  are  associated  with  these  mapping  units  (K. 
Hughes,  personal  communication).  There  also 
appears  to  be  a  marked  difference  between  occur- 
rence wdthin  the  two  mapping  units.  Seventy-three 
searches  were  conducted  within  mapping  unit  05  +, 

Table  5.  Soil  map  units  associated  with  grama  grass 
cactus  locations  on  the  Lakeside  Ranger  District,  Navajo 
County,  Arizona. 


Unit  Searches  Locations  Individuals 


043 

18 

10 

272 

044 

6 

5 

266 

051 

3 

1 

5 

052 

1 

0 

0 

053 

58 

8 

172 

054 

10 

0 

0 

058 

1 

1 

2 

504 

10 

1 

3 

503 

1 

0 

0 

531 

3 

0 

0 

580 

5 

0 

0 

Total 

116 

26 

720 

resulting  in  10  locations  or  a  14  percent  success 
rate.  Twenty-four  searches  were  conducted  in 
mapping  unit  04+,  resulting  in  15  locations  or  a 
success  rate  of  63  percent.  Of  the  717  individuals 
found  within  these  mapping  units,  25  percent 
were  in  05+  with  75  percent  occurring  in  04+. 
Average  density  per  plot  was  higher  in  04+  (58.8) 
than  in  05+  (33.2).  However,  both  the  highest  and 
lowest  densities  per  plot  occurred  within  mapping 
unit  04+.  Whether  a  key  difference  exists  between 
these  soil  mapping  units  is  not  clear.  It  is  possible 
that  the  noted  difference  is  due  to  laiid-use  history 
as  discussed  below. 

Vegetation 

Twenty-five  of  the  26  grama  grass  cactus 
locations  were  compared  to  estimates  of  pinyon- 
juniper  canopy  cover  estimated  from  1993  aerial 
photos.  Polygons  (greater  than  10  acres)  were 
developed  in  GIS  for  grasslands,  canopy  covers  of 
less  than  5  percent,  5-39  percent,  40-69  percent 
and  70  percent  and  greater.  All  cactus  locations 
occurred  in  areas  of  39  percent  canopy  cover  or 
less.  Grasslands  accounted  for  60  percent  (15)  of 
locations  and  44  percent  of  individuals.  Canopy 
cover  less  than  5  percent  accounted  for  16  percent 
of  locations  and  12  percent  of  individuals.  Canopy 
cover  between  5  and  39  percent  accounted  for  24 
percent  of  locations  and  44  percent  of  individuals. 
The  information  collected  from  the  Parker  3-step 
transects  established  for  each  plot  can  be  used  for 
a  more  site-specific  analysis  of  cactus  locations. 
For  example,  only  6  of  56  transects  recorded 
pinyon-juniper  overstory,  occurring  on  5  of  the  14 
plots.  These  hits  can  be  interpolated  as  canopy 
cover  ranging  from  1  percent  to  11  percent  for  in- 
dividual transects.  When  averaged  for  individual 
plots,  the  maximum  canopy  cover  was  3  percent 
(Table  6).  Plot  10,  which  occurred  at  the  landscape 
scale  in  a  polygon  of  5-39  percent  canopy  cover, 
averaged  0.75  percent  at  the  site-specific  scale 
canopy  cover. 

A  preliminary  analysis  of  the  vegetation  trail - 
sects  established  in  each  of  the  14  plots  shows  that 
an  average  of  60  percent  of  the  hits  on  these  tran- 
sects were  bare  ground  with  a  range  of  2  percent 
to  90  percent.  The  transect  that  only  showed  2 
percent  bare  ground  still  only  had  35  percent  of 
hits  on  plants,  the  remainder  being  either  rock  or 
litter.  The  only  comparable  data  was  collected  by 
Nabhan  (1987)  for  areas  with  only  one  and  two 
individuals.  He  found  40  percent  and  60  percent 
bare  ground  in  these  areas. 


303 


304 


Only  six  of  the  individual  transects  had  a 
range  condition  class  of  fair;  the  remainder  were 
poor.  Two  plots  had  two  of  four  transects  that 
scored  fair,  but  the  number  of  cactus  in  these  plots 
was  low  (9  and  10  individuals).  The  other  two 
plots  that  had  one  transect  that  scored  fair  had  27 
and  73  individuals.  The  dominant  grass  species  in 
most  transects  was  blue  grama  (Boutelona  gracilis). 

Land-Use  History 

Twenty-two  of  the  26  locations  of  this  cactus 
occur  within  two  allotments,  comprising  approx- 
imately 29,000  acres.  In  the  late  1800s  and  early 
1900s  uncontrolled  use  by  cattle  and  sheep  se- 
verely over-utilized  the  area.  Cattle  numbers  have 
gradually  decreased  since  1920.  Sheep  grazing 
ceased  in  the  1930s.  Today  135  head  of  cattle  are 
grazed  on  one  allotment  and  199  head  are  grazed 
on  the  other.  Based  on  a  recent  analysis  by  the 
District,  one  allotment  was  considered  appropri- 
ately stocked  and  one  allotment  was  considered 
understocked.  Both  allotments  use  a  deferred 
rotation  grazing  system. 

Approximately  10,800  acres  of  juniper  were 
cabled  from  1959  to  1960  by  the  permittees  and  the 

Table  6.  Polygon  cover  type,  canopy  cover  and  canopy 
cover  for  Parker  three-step  transects  at  locations  of 
grama  grass  cactus  on  Lakeside  Ranger  District,  Navajo 
County,  Arizona. 


Polygon 

Polygon 

Transect 

Location 

Cover 

Canopy 

Canopy 

Total 

No. 

Type 

Cover 

Cover 

Individuals 

PLon 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

25 

RN893-2 

Grassland 

0% 

1 

PL007 

Juniper 

5-39% 

0% 

94 

PL012 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

3 

RN893-5 

Grassland 

0% 

2 

RN893-6 

Grassland 

0% 

1 

PL013 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

34 

RN893-8 

Grassland 

0% 

1 

PL003 

Juiiiper 

5-39% 

0% 

9 

PL002 

Juniper 

5-39% 

1.5% 

27 

PL006 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

51 

PLOOl 

Juniper 

5-39% 

3% 

11 

PL004 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

10 

PL005 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

39 

PL008 

Grassland 

0% 

0.25% 

45 

PL009 

Juniper 

<5% 

0.5% 

73 

PLOlO 

Juniper 

5-39% 

0.75% 

160 

PL014 

Grassland 

0% 

0% 

113 

RN994-19 

Juniper 

<5% 

2 

RN994-20 

Juniper 

5-39% 

5 

RN994-21 

Juniper 

<5% 

1 

RN994-22 

Juniper 

<5% 

3 

RN994-23 

Grassland 

0% 

2 

RN994-24 

Grassland 

0% 

2 

RN994-25 

Grassland 

0% 

3 

RN695-26 

Grassland 

0% 

3 

Forest  Service.  Two  cactus  locations  are  found 
within  these  areas,  accounting  for  6  percent  of 
individuals.  An  additional  8,000  acres  have  been 
pushed.  Fourteen  cactus  locations  are  found 
within  these  areas  accounting  for  approximately 
35  percent  of  individuals.  Portions  of  these  treated 
areas  were  also  burned.  Nine  cactus  locations 
occur  within  these  areas,  accounting  for  approxi- 
mately 33  percent  of  individuals. 

The  Dodson  allotment  was  used  for  a  pilot 
study  of  a  short-duration,  high-intensity  grazing 
system  for  7  years  (1983-1990).  Five  locations 
subjected  to  this  grazing  system  account  for  ap- 
proximately 15  percent  of  plants  found. 

Discussion 

Fletcher  and  Moir  (1993)  postulated  that  the 
lack  of  individuals  with  diameters  exceeding  20 
mm  in  Button's  (1987)  populations  indicated  that 
plant  longevity  was  not  sufficient  to  achieve  full 
reproductive  potential.  They  also  speculated  that 
many  populations  persist  due  to  a  large  seed  bank 
in  the  soil.  Knowledge  concerning  the  reproduc- 
tive biology  of  wild  populations  is  almost  nonexis- 
tent. It  is  therefore  extremely  difficult  to  draw  con- 
clusions regarding  grama  grass  cactus  populations 
on  the  LRD.  At  this  time,  however,  we  feel  that  the 
populations  on  the  LRD  are  healthy,  based  on  the 
presence  of  various  size  classes,  inferred  reproduc- 
tive capability,  and  high  average  densities.  If 
indeed  this  cactus  is  associated  with  certain  soils 
on  the  LRD  as  our  data  indicate,  then  it  is  also  well 
distributed. 

Though  this  cactus  is  found  in  pinyon-juniper, 
our  data  indicate  that  it  occurs  in  the  grassy  open- 
ings within  the  woodland  type  and  does  not 
tolerate  a  high  degree  of  canopy  cover.  Continued 
invasion  of  these  grassy  areas  by  pinyon-juniper 
could  lead  to  reduced  habitat  for  this  species. 

Acknowledgments 

I  would  like  to  thank  Bruce  Palmer,  U.S.  Fish 
and  Wildlife  Service,  for  his  field  visits  and  advice 
in  data  collection.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
following  U.S.  Forest  Service  personnel:  Terry 
Myers,  Forest  TES  Specialist,  for  making  funds 
available  and  for  support  of  this  project  and  re- 
view of  this  paper.  Carl  Vance  Jr.,  Lakeside  Ranger 
District,  who  conducted  much  of  the  field  work 
that  made  this  paper  possible.  Clay  Baxter,  Lake- 
side Ranger  District,  for  his  support  of  this  project 
and  collection  of  Parker  3-step  data.  There  are 
many  others  who  have  helped  along  the  way  and  I 
sincerely  thank  them  all. 


305 


Literature  Cited 

Benda-Dodd,  R.  1992.  Biological  evaluation  for  threat- 
ened, endangered  and  sensitive  plants  and  wildlife. 
Report  to  Lakeside  Ranger  District,  U.S.  Forest 
Service,  Lakeside,  AZ.  5  pp. 

Button,  C.  1987.  Observations  and  field  notes  on  Pedio- 
cactus  papyracanthus,  Navajo  County,  AZ.  Report  to 
Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Phoenix,  AZ.  4  pp. 

Coffman  Associates.  1993.  Draft  environmental  assess- 
ment for  proposed  improvements  to  Show  Low 
municipal  airport.  Show  Low  Arizona.  Report  to 
City  of  Show  Low,  AZ.  121  pp. 

Fletcher,  R.  1985.  Pediocactus  papyracanthus  surveys, 
Santa  Fe  National  Forest,  1985.  Report  to  Santa  Fe 
National  Forests,  Santa  Fe,  NM.  6  pp. 

Fletcher,  R.,  and  W.  Moir.  1993.  Pediocactus  papyracathtis , 
passenger  pigeons  of  plants?.  In  R.  Sivinski  and  K. 
Lightfooot,  editors.  Southwestern  Rare  and  Endan- 
gered Plants,  pp.  151-161.  New  Mexico  Forestry 
Division  Misc.  Publ.  No.  2. 

Kearney,  T.H.,  and  R.H.  Peebles.  1960.  Arizona  Flora. 
University  of  California  Press,  Berkeley  and  Los 
Angeles.  1085  pp. 

Klein,  E.H.  1995.  Cinder  pit  management  plan.  Biologi- 
cal assessment  and  evaluation  prepared  for  Lakeside 
Ranger  Dist.,  U.S.  Forest  Service,  Lakeside,  AZ.  39  pp. 

Nabhan,  G.P.  1987.  Six  month  progress  report  Toumeya 
papyracantha  (Engelm.)  Britton  &  Rose  (=  Pediocactus 
papyracanthus).  Report  to  Office  of  Endangered 
Species,  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque, 
NM.  4  pp. 


Phillips,  B.C.,  J.  Mazzon,  L.T.  Green,  and  N.  Brian.  1982. 
Status  report  Pediocactus  papyracanthus .  Report  to  U.S. 
Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Region  2,  Albuquerque, 
NM.  12  pp. 

Sivinski,  R.  and  K.  Lightfoot.  1994.  Status  summary  for 

the  grama  grass  cactus  (Touymeya  papyracantha). 

Report  to  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  Region  2, 

Albuquerque,  NM.  12  pp. 
SWCA,  Inc.  1994.  Citizens  Utilities  proposed  natural  gas 

pipeline  and  Navajo  County  proposed  Penrod  road. 

Biological  assessment  and  evaluation  prepared  for 

Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests,  Springerville, 

AZ.  50  pp. 

USDA.  1986.  Terrestrial  Ecosystem  Survey  of  the 
Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests.  USDA  Forest 
Service,  Southwest  Region,  Albuquerque,  NM.  453 
pp. 

USES.  1990.  Region  3  Sensitive  Plant  List,  May  1990.  U.S. 
Forest  Service,  Albuquerque,  NM.  27  pp. 

Wagner,  W.  and  D.  Sabo.  1977.  Letter  to  City  Transporta- 
tion Department,  Albuquerque,  NM.  2  pp. 

Wilhelm,  M.  1995.  Biological  assessment  and  evaluation 
of  the  Show  Low  airport  mitigation  wetlands  on  the 
Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests,  Arizona.  Report 
to  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forest,  Springerville, 
AZ.  10  pp. 


306 


Surveys  and  Habitat  Analyses  of  Five  Rare  Plant  Species 
In  the  Organ  Mountains  of  New  Mexico 

ELLEN  A.  DEBRUIN 

New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program,  University  of  New  Mexico,  2500  Yale  Blvd.  SE,  Albuquerque  87131 

Abstract:  The  Organ  Mountains  of  south-central  New  Mexico  support  five  rare  plant  species, 
four  of  them  endemic  to  this  small,  isolated  range.  Rare  plant  surveys  were  conducted  in  the 
Organ  Mouiitaiiis  on  the  Fort  Bliss  Military  Reservation  from  1990  to  1993.  Distribution  maps 
and  habitat  models  w^ere  produced  to  aid  Fort  Bliss  in  planning  for  the  preservation  and 
habitat  management  of  these  rare  species.  New  populations  were  documented  for  Oenothera 
organensis,  Perityle  cerniia,  Scrophiilaria  laevis,  Draba  standleyi,  and  Coryphantha  organensis. 
Quantitative  data  on  habitat  and  population  characteristics  were  collected,  analyzed,  and  de- 
veloped into  habitat  models  that  were  verified  during  additional  field  surveys.  Each  species 
was  dependent  on  its  own  unique  mesic  microhabitat.  The  potential  effects  of  fires  pose  the 
greatest  threat  to  the  habitat. 


Introduction 

The  Organ  Mountains  form  a  relatively  iso- 
lated small  range  in  south-central  New  Mexico 
that  has  higher  peaks  (to  9012  feet)  and  more 
mesic  canyons  than  the  neighboring  San  Andres 
Mountains  to  the  north  and  Franklin  Mountains  to 
the  south.  This  has  created  aii  isolating  effect  and 
consequent  endemism  for  plants  that  lack  high 
dispersal  capabilities  (Figure  1). 

The  U.S.  Army  Fort  Bliss  Military  Reservation 
is  responsible  for  management  of  most  of  the 
Organ  Mountains  with  the  exception  of  the  north- 
western part,  which  is  managed  by  the  Bureau  of 
Land  Management  (BLM).  Military  uses  and  light- 
ning strikes  have  resulted  in  frequent  fires  in  these 
mountains.  A  lightning  fire  burned  the  central  part 
of  the  range  in  1994.  Fire  management  in  the 
Organ  Mountains  has  the  potential  to  enhance  the 
habitats  of  species  of  special  interest.  Thus,  there  is 
a  need  to  know  the  distribution  of  sensitive  species 
in  order  to  manage  fire  in  the  mountains  in  ways 
that  address  their  distribution  and  habitat  re- 
quirements. 

The  New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program 
conducted  surveys  for  rare  and  endemic  plants  in 
the  Organ  Mountains  from  1990  to  1992  and  tested 
the  habitat  models  with  further  surveys  in  1993. 
Potential  habitat  and  distribution  for  each  species 
were  determined  by  applying  the  habitat  model. 

Seven  of  the  plant  species  in  the  Organ  Moun- 
tains on  Fort  Bliss  were  either  endemic,  federal 
candidates  for  protection,  or  state  endangered  at 
the  time  of  this  research.  Two  state  sensitive  spe- 
cies and  two  other  rare  species  were  also  found  in 
the  Organ  Mountains,  but  were  not  endemic.  This 
paper  presents  the  results  of  surveys  and  habitat 


analyses  for  the  five  species  that  were  federal  cate- 
gory 2  candidates  for  protection  and/or  endemics: 
Oenothera  organensis  Munz  (Organ  Mountain  even- 
ing primrose),  Perityle  cernua  (Greene)  Shirmers 
(nodding  cliff  daisy),  Scrophiilaria  laevis  Woot.  & 
Standi.  (Smooth  figwort),  Draba  standleyi  Macbr.  & 
Payson  (Standley's  whitlowgrass),  and  Con/pJian- 
tha  organensis  A.D.  Zimmerman  (Organ  Mountain 
pincushion  cactus). 

Species  Backgrounds 

Oenothera  organensis  (Onagraceae)  is  endem- 
ic to  the  Organ  Mountains.  It  is  closely  related  to 
three  other  species  that  have  scattered  relictual 
distributions  in  central  and  northern  Mexico 
(Dietrich  et  al.  1985).  It  is  a  bushy  perennial  herb, 
initiating  from  a  slender  taproot  with  a  single 
rosette.  Numerous  adventitious  shoots  then  arise 
from  the  taproot  and  lateral  roots,  with  the  root 
system  appearing  fibrous;  stems  are  numerous, 
many  branched,  w^eakly  erect  to  sprawling,  grow- 
ing to  0.6  m  tall  and  1.5  m  in  diameter.  The  basal 
leaves  form  a  rosette.  Flow^ers  have  a  uniquely 
long  floral  tube,  10-19  cm  long.  The  four  petals  are 
creamy  yellow,  obovate,  3.5  to  5  cm  long,  and 
almost  as  wide. 

Other  yellow^  evening  primroses  in  the  Organ 
Mountains  have  a  more  erect,  less  bushy  habit  and 
smaller  flowers. 

O.  organensis  is  known  only  from  the  northern 
two-thirds  of  the  Organ  Mountains.  Its  distribu- 
tion was  published  in  a  status  report  by  Worthing - 
ton  in  1981.  Results  of  recent  surveys  on  BLM 
lands  were  presented  by  Skaggs  at  the  first  South- 
western Rare  and  Endangered  Plant  Conference  in 
1993. 


307 


Rare  Plants  of  the  Organ  Mountains 


Legend 

Military  Boundaries      •    Rare  Plant  Populations 

 Streams    NM  Highways 

  500ft  Contours 


I  • 
I  ■ 
■  -  -  I 


Miles 


0 


September  1995 

New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program 


Figure  1.  Rare  plant  populations  in  the  Organ  Mountains  of  New  Mexico. 


308 


Flowering  occurs  from  June  to  September. 
Plants  are  self-incompatible.  Seeds  that  are  passed 
in  deer  feces  may  have  enhanced  germination 
(Worthington  1981).  Research  has  been  focused  on 
the  genetics  of  this  species,  but  has  not  addressed 
life  cycles. 

Perityle  cemua  (Asteraceae)  is  endemic  to  the 
Organ  Mountains.  The  species  is  very  distinct 
from  any  others  in  the  genus  (Niles  1970).  It  is  a 
low  tufted  perennial  from  a  woody  base,  and  the 
stems  are  leafy,  to  about  10  cm  long.  Leaves  are 
dark  green,  petiolate,  with  the  blades  broadly 
rounded-triangular,  thick,  fleshy,  2-3  cm  wide, 
margins  toothed,  and  old  leaf  bases  persistent. 
Flower  heads  are  yellow,  rayless,  solitary  and 
terminal  on  peduncles  to  2  cm  long,  held  upright 
just  above  the  leaves  while  flowering,  and  nod- 
ding when  seeds  mature.  Ray  flowers  are  absent 
and  disk  flowers  are  many  (50-75)  with  yellow 
corollas  about  4  mm  long. 

There  are  no  similar  species  in  the  same  habi- 
tat. On  the  high  cliffs,  P.  cemua  can  be  distin- 
guished by  the  deep  green  color  of  the  compactly 
tufted  plants  and  the  showy  yeUow  flowers  above 
the  leaves. 

P.  cemua  is  known  to  occur  only  in  the  Organ 
Mountains.  Previous  collections  by  Spellenberg, 
Todsen,  Castetter  and  others  (DeBruin  et  al.  1994) 
were  from  two  main  populations  in  two  separate 
canyons  on  Fort  Bliss.  Three  small  population 
have  been  found  on  BLM  land,  two  of  them  re- 
ported by  Skaggs  (1993).  Flowering  continues 
from  June  to  October. 

Scrophularia  laevis  (Scrophulariaceae)  is 
endemic  to  the  Organ  Mountains.  It  is  a  perennial 
herb  having  single  stems,  mostly  unbranched, 
slender,  bright  green,  to  120  cm  tall.  Petioles  are 
slender,  2-3  cm  long.  Leaves  grow  to  7  cm  long, 
3.5  cm  wide,  broadly  lance  shaped  with  serrate 
margins,  thin,  bright  green,  glabrous  except 
sparsely  glandular-puberulent  along  the  main 
veins.  Flowers  occur  in  sparse  clusters  of  five  or 
fewer  branches  from  leaf  axils  near  the  top  of  the 
stem,  pedicels  slender  sepals  3-4  mm  long,  tri- 
angular to  lanceolate.  Corolla  is  7-12  mm  long, 
pale  carmine  below,  the  upper  lobes  dark  carmine, 
the  reflexed  lower  midlobe  white  to  pink,  the 
throat  glabrous  (Todsen  1978). 

Todsen  (1978)  published  a  revised  description 
of  the  species  that  details  its  distinction  from  S. 
montana  and  S.  parviflora.  Plants  differ  from  S.  mon- 
tana  in  their  slender  habit  and  doubly  serrate  leaf 
margins  and  from  S.  parviflora  in  their  completely 


deflexed  lip  and  limited  pubescence. 

Scrophularia  laevis  is  known  only  from  the 
northern  half  of  the  Organ  Mountains.  Flowering 
occurs  in  August  and  September.  By  September 
many  seeds  have  set,  insect  herbivory  is  high,  and 
the  elongated  stems  have  become  brittle  and  are 
easily  broken. 

Draba  standleyi  (Brassicaceae)  is  known  in 
New  Mexico  only  from  the  Organ  Mountains.  It  is 
a  small  yellow-flowered  mustard;  a  tufted  peren- 
nial herb  from  a  thick  root,  leaves  mostly  basal, 
narrowly  oblanceolate,  long-petiolate,  1.5-8  cm 
long,  2-7  mm  wide,  hairs  strigillose  to  ciliate,  stem 
leaves  1-8,  smaller,  toothed  or  entire.  Stems  are  3- 
15  cm  tall,  few  and  slender,  erect  to  partially 
decumbent,  simple  or  few-branched,  glabrous  to 
softly  pubescent  below,  glabrous  above.  Racemes 
are  elongate,  5-20  flowered,  sepals  ca.  2.25  mm 
long,  glabrous  to  pilose.  Flower  petals  are  yellow, 
4-6  mm  long,  seed  pods  are  linear-elliptic,  glab- 
rous, 8-12  mm  long,  1.5-2.5  mm  broad,  flattened, 
and  twisted  (Hitchcock  1941). 

Leaves  are  longer,  more  slender,  and  more 
strongly  basal  than  in  D.  helleriana;  hairs  are  almost 
never  stellate  or  cruciform  as  in  D.  petrophila. 

It  is  known  to  occur  in  the  Chiricahua  Moun- 
tains of  southeastern  Arizona,  the  Organ  Moun- 
tains in  New  Mexico,  the  Davis  Mountains  of 
western  Texas,  and  Canon  el  Moreno  in  northeast 
Coahuila,  Mexico.  The  populations  are  small, 
uncommon,  and  widely  dispersed.  Only  one 
population  on  BLM  land  in  the  Organs  was  known 
prior  to  1993. 

Flowering  occurs  from  June  through  August 
in  Arizona  and  Mexico  and  continues  into  Sep- 
tember in  the  Organ  Mountains.  Pollination  by 
flies  was  observed  at  one  location  in  Arizona 
(Malusa  et  al.  1992). 

Coryphantha  organensis  (Cactaceae)  synonym 
Escobaria  organensis  (D.  Zimmerman)  Castetter, 
Pierce  &  Schwerin  is  endemic  to  the  Organ  Moun- 
tains. It  is  anticipated  that  Zimmerman  will  even- 
tually publish  his  revision  of  the  species,  naming  it 
as  a  variety  of  C.  sneedii. 

C.  organensis  stems  grow  in  loosely  packed 
clumps,  usually  10  or  more  per  cluster,  2-7  cm  in 
diameter,  to  12  cm  tall;  central  spines  are  tan  to 
golden  yeUow,  tips  often  reddish  brown,  about  10- 
20  mm  long,  inner  central  spines  0  to  4  (usually  1) 
per  areole,  outer  central  spines  8  to  14  per  areole, 
subequal.  Radials  are  white,  spines  (total)  37  to  49 
per  areole,  spines  are  usually  not  completely 
obscuring  underlying  tubercles.  Flowers  are  pink. 


309 


about  1.5  to  2.5  cm  long,  outer  perianth  parts 
fringed;  fruits  are  cylindric,  yellowish  green,  to 
about  14  mm  long  (Zimmerman  1985). 

Coryphantha  sneediii  var.  sneedii,  which  has 
whiter  spines  and  stem  diameters  1.4  to  4.5  cm, 
grows  on  limestone  south  of  the  Organ  Mountains. 
AU  of  the  clustered  Coryphantha  seen  in  the  Organ 
Mountains  fit  the  description  of  C.  organensis  with 
central  spines  less  white  and  a  larger  average  stem 
diameter. 

Prior  to  1990,  only  a  few  collections  docu- 
mented the  locations  of  this  cactus  on  Fort  Bliss 
(DeBruin  et  al.  1994).  Flowering  occurs  from  May 
to  June.  Plants  are  easily  observed  throughout  the 
year,  because  they  are  not  hidden  by  heavy  grass 
cover.  Fruits  are  persistent  into  autumn. 

Methods 

Prior  to  starting  field  surveys  the  available 
information  on  species  and  their  locations  in  the 
Organ  Mountains  was  compiled  from  the  litera- 
ture, herbaria,  and  personal  communications.  In 
1990,  general  reconnaissance  surveys  of  potential 
habitat  were  conducted  for  target  species.  Loca- 
tions of  populations  were  recorded  on  topographic 
maps  and  on  the  survey  forms  used  for  the  Bio- 
logical Conservation  Database  (BCD)  by  the  New 
Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program  (NMNHP). 
During  the  preliminary  surveys  of  1990,  the 
distribution  of  each  species  was  delineated  and 
mapped  on  a  canyon-by-canyon  basis  for  most 
parts  of  the  Organ  Mountains  that  were  accessible 
and  relative  measures  of  habitat  and  population 
size  were  recorded. 

In  1991  quantitative  data  on  habitat  and  popu- 
lation characteristics  were  collected  from  sample 
areas  that  were  stratified  to  represent  the  range  of 
potential  habitat  variables:  substrate,  slope,  aspect, 
slope  position,  and  elevation.  Within  each  sample 
area,  10  potential  data  collection  sites  of  uniform 
size  were  selected  as  they  were  encountered  in  the 
field.  Five  of  the  sites  that  corresponded  to  previ- 
ously chosen  random  numbers  were  sampled.  At 
each  site  individual  plants  were  counted  and 
slope,  aspect,  elevation,  substrate,  slope  position, 
phenology,  and  associated  species  were  recorded. 
A  condition  rating  was  assigned  to  the  site  based 
on  the  number  and  vitality  of  plants,  the  quality  of 
the  habitat,  and  its  vulnerability  to  potential 
threats.  Each  data  collection  site  was  used  as  a 
sample  unit  for  statistical  analysis  of  habitat.  The 
collection  sites  were  grouped  by  sample  area.  Each 
sample  area  was  entered  into  the  BCD  at  the 
NMNHP  as  one  "element  occurrence."  The  occur- 


rences were  mapped  on  topographic  quadrangle 
maps  at  NMNHP. 

In  1992  the  field  data  were  used  to  develop 
predictive  habitat  models  for  each  species.  The 
models  were  tested  in  the  field  by  sampling  the 
predicted  habitat  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
original  samples.  The  sampling  plan  was  adapted 
to  the  unique  habitat  of  each  species,  as  described 
in  the  following  paragraphs. 

Oenothera  organensis  individuals  were  counted 
at  most  of  the  small  population  sites.  Subsamples 
were  selected  from  extensive  populations  by 
assigning  a  number  to  each  group  of  six  or  more 
plants  separated  along  the  streambed  from  the 
next  group  by  20  or  more  meters.  The  sample 
groups  were  chosen  by  random  numbers.  The  area 
counted  covered  20  meters  downstream  from  the 
first  plants.  Individuals  were  counted  in  four  size 
classes:  rosettes,  less  than  0.5  m  in  diameter,  0.5-1 
m,  and  greater  than  1  m  in  diameter. 

Perityle  cernua  individuals  were  counted  with 
binoculars  on  all  of  the  cliffs  where  they  were 
found  except  at  the  large  populations  where  the 
canyon  walls  were  divided  into  numbered  sections 
and  the  numbers  were  chosen  at  random.  Plants 
within  the  sections  were  counted  with  binoculars 
from  the  best  available  vantage  point.  The  plants 
are  easily  seen  against  the  rock  walls,  but  the 
counts  are  conservative  because  the  very  young 
plants  and  those  hiding  in  crevices  cannot  be  seen 
at  a  distance. 

Coryphantha  organensis  plants  were  counted  in 
small  clusters  when  they  were  scattered  along 
ridgelines.  On  canyon  sides  where  they  grew  in 
larger  patches,  sample  patches  were  selected  by 
the  same  random  number  method  used  for  other 
species.  Individuals  were  counted  within  20 
square-meter  samples. 

Scrophularia  laevis  grew  in  thick  patches.  In 
small  patches,  all  plants  were  counted.  In  large 
patches,  we  counted  a  10-meter-square  section  and 
estimated  the  number  of  sections  within  the  popu- 
lation. In  extended  populations,  we  numbered  the 
patches  as  they  were  found  and  counted  those  that 
matched  randomly  selected  numbers.  The  samples 
were  used  to  estimate  the  population  size. 

Draba  standleyi  were  found  in  only  a  few  lim- 
ited areas;  all  plants  were  counted. 

Statistical  analyses  of  habitat  preference  were 
performed  using  the  sample  data  for  the  four 
endemic  plant  species.  Draba  standleyi  was  not 
analyzed  because  there  were  too  few  samples. 
Regression  models  of  the  independent  variables  of 
elevation,  slope,  position  and  aspect  were  con- 


310 


structed  for  the  dependent  variables  area,  number 
of  individuals,  and  density. 

Results 

The  total  population  numbers  given  in  Table  1 
do  not  include  the  Organ  Mountains  north  of  the 
Fort  Bliss  boundary.  The  counts  are  individual 
plants  recorded  during  our  surveys.  The  estimates 
include  ocular  estimates  in  the  field  and  extrapo- 
lations from  our  sample  sites  onto  entire  sample 
areas  mapped.  Total  estimates  include  extrapola- 
tions onto  additional  potential  habitat  plus  esti- 
mates given  by  other  sources  for  sites  that  we  did 
not  resurvey.  Each  category  includes  the  number 
from  the  column  to  the  left. 


Table  1.  Population  summaries  for  plant  species  in  the 
Organ  Mountains  on  Fort  Bliss. 


Species 

Count 

Estimate 

Est. 
Total 

Oenothera  organensis 

718 

1960 

2300 

Perityle  cermia 

2822 

5121 

6800 

Scrophularia  laevis 

764 

864 

2000 

CorypJwntha  organensis 

326 

500 

5000 

Draba  standleyi 

610 

650 

850 

The  regression  approach  to  predicting  the 
area,  number  of  individuals,  and  density  of  the 
four  endemic  species  in  relationship  to  elevation, 
slope,  aspect,  and  position  was  unsuccessful.  No 
statistically  significant  models  were  found  and  the 
marginally  significant  models  only  predicted 
about  25  percent  of  the  variation  in  plant  abun- 
dance. The  relationships  of  the  five  rarest  species 
to  the  important  elements  of  their  habitat  are 
presented  graphically  in  Figures  2-6. 

Oenothera  organensis  plants  were  found  only  in 
streambeds  or  on  adjacent  hillside  seeps  where 
surface  water  is  present  for  at  least  part  of  the 
growing  season.  The  amount  and  duration  of 
surface  water  required  is  unknown.  The  largest 
populations  occurred  around  pools  of  water  that 
persist  in  both  spring  and  fall.  Stray  individuals 
were  found  in  dry  streambeds  a  short  distance  up 
or  down  stream  from  flowing  water.  Robust 
populations  have  been  found  in  all  aspects  and  on 
all  of  the  substrates  present  in  the  Organ  Moun- 
tains at  elevations  from  4860  feet  to  7800  feet. 
Plants  are  usually  in  open  sun  or  partially  shaded 
by  riparian  trees  and  shrubs.  Most  plants  are 
rooted  in  coarse,  wet  sand  and  gravel  in  sheltered 
pockets  along  the  bank  or  on  the  downstream  side 
of  rocks  and  boulders. 


Associated  trees  and  shrubs  in  the  riparian 
community  were  Pinits  ponderosa,  Cercocarpiis 
montanus,  Symphoricarpos,  Vitis,  Quercus  arizonica, 
Q.  grisea,  Fraxinus  vehitina,  Baccharis  ghitinosa, 
Chilopsis  linearis,  Ptelea  angustifolia,  Fallugia 
paradoxa,  funiperus  deppeana,  Acer  negiindo,  and 
Salix  gooddingii. 

Oenothera  organensis  has  been  found  in  the  wet 
sections  of  most  of  the  canyons  in  the  northern 
half  of  the  Organ  Mountains.  The  populations 
seem  to  shift  with  available  water,  judging  by 
historical  records  (Worthington  1981),  so  new  sites 
could  be  found  in  any  of  the  occupied  canyon 
bottoms.  We  found  populations  that  were  more 
extensive  than  those  reported  by  Worthington 
(1981)  in  three  of  the  wettest  canyons.  Plants  were 
reported  scoured  by  flooding  from  one  canyon  in 
1991  (Skaggs  1993),  where  a  few  scattered  adults 
are  now  regrowing  from  roots.  The  effects  of  fire 
and  erosion  on  O.  organensis  habitat  will  be  moni- 
tored by  NMNHP  in  1996. 

Perityle  cermia  was  found  on  previously  un- 
recorded cliff  sites  near  the  known  locations,  but 
in  more  open  canyons  on  sunnier  aspects.  The 
substrate  was  always  rhyolite,  andesite,  or  Achen- 
back  tuff  (Seager  1981).  Surveys  for  P.  cemua  were 
negative  in  six  canyons  on  quartz-monzonite  cliffs. 

Habitat  for  P.  cermia  on  Fort  Bliss  was  re- 
stricted to  rhyolite  cliffs,  which  may  provide  a 
more  mesic  substrate  than  granite  (Skaggs  1993). 
Known  locations  are  at  elevations  from  5400  to 
7800  feet.  Plants  are  most  abundant  in  areas 
shaded  by  cliffs  or  in  recesses.  They  are  not  re- 
stricted to  deep  shade,  however,  but  have  also 
been  found  on  open  cliffs  with  varied  aspects 
including  direct  southern  exposure.  Roots  are 
anchored  in  crevices  of  the  rock  and  plants  are 
found  most  frequently  along  fissures  and  other 
indentations  on  the  cliffs  where  the  microhabitat  is 
more  mesic  and  roots  can  be  established. 

Associated  species  are  chasmophytic  plants 
including  Silene  plankii,  Coryphantha  organensis, 
Aletes  filifolius,  Selaginella,  Dasylirion,  Seduni,  and 
Yucca  baccata.  The  vegetation  at  the  base  of  the 
cliffs  ranges  from  Montane  Scrub  and  Montane 
Riparian  to  Lower  Montane  Coniferous  Forest. 

Wrens  were  observed  taking  mature  seeds. 
There  was  herbivory  by  caterpillars  on  many 
plants  in  1991.  Stems  of  the  plants  break  easily  and 
seeds  may  be  distributed  down  the  cliff  by  falling 
stem  fragments. 

Most  of  the  occupied  sites  are  inaccessible  to 
hikers  or  livestock.  Rock  climbers  could  destroy 
many  of  the  fragile  plants  if  they  were  allowed 


311 


100 


-o 

c 
a 

o 

C 

o 


90^ 
BO- 
ZO- 
60- 
50- 
40- 
30- 
20- 
10- 
0- 


Rhyolite/Andesite  Quartz-Monzonite  Alluvium 


^gO.  organcmijn  =  37^2C.or6ancmijn  =  40  P.  ccmuan  =  44 
r~~l  S.Uevun  =  13         ^3  D.  ttandlcyi  n=< 


Figure  2.  Substrate  affinities  of  rare  plant  species  in  the  Organ  Mountains  on  Fort  Bliss. 


100 


-o 
c 

8 

c 

r3 


C3 
O 

o 


4800'-5999*   6000'-6999'   7000'-7999'  eOOO'-BSOO' 


^^23  organsmij  n  =  37  [//^  C  organcniii  n  =40  ^^5^  P.  ccmua  n  =  45 
I     |S.  Uevitn=M         £3  D.  lUndleyi  n  =  5 


Figure  3.  Elevation  affinities  of  rare  plant  species  in  the  Organ  Mountains  on  Fort  Bliss. 


312 


100 


T3 


C 

2 

o 


90 
80 
70  H 
60 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 
0 


223  organen"!  n  =  37  C  organensis  n=39 
I     i  S.Uevi»n=14         ^  D.  jundleyi  n  =  5 


I  P.  cemua  □=44 


Figure  4.  Aspect  affinities  of  rare  plant  species  in  the  Organ  Mountains  on  Fort  Bliss. 


100 


•o 

V 

c 

3 

8 

c 
cu 

o 

O 


90 
80H 
70 
6Q-\ 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10-1 
0 


0-19 


20-39  40-59 
DEGREES  OF  SLOPE 


60-90 


 DEGREES  OF  SLOPE  

O-  organemU  n=31  [//^  C  organensis  n  =  26  K^H  P-  cemua  n=21 
I     |S.l3evisn  =  10        ^3  D.  standleyi  n  =  3 


Figure  5.  Slope  affinities  of  rare  plant  species  in  the  Organ  Mountains  on  Fort  Bliss. 


CANYON  BOTTOM     LOWER  SLOPE  UPPER  SLOPE      RIDGE/HILL  TOP 


RZl  O.  organensis  n=37  [//^  C  organensis  n=40 
□□S.lacvijn  =  14         ^3  D.  standleyi  n=S 


1  P.  cemua  n  =  42 


Figure  6.  Position  affinities  of  rare  plant  species  in  the  Organ  Mountains  on  Fort  Bliss. 


313 


access.  The  best  habitat  in  terms  of  numbers  and 
size  of  plants  and  naturally  protected  location  is  in 
one  short  section  of  a  deep  canyon  that  should  be 
set  aside  from  human  disturbance.  Monitoring  the 
population  trends  and  any  effects  of  the  fire  on  P. 
cernua  is  planned  for  1996. 

Scrophiilaria  laevis  was  found  only  in  the  north- 
ern third  of  the  Organ  Mountains.  There  is  poten- 
tial for  many  more  populations  in  the  canyons  on 
the  north  side  of  the  range  on  BLM  land. 

S.  laevis  grows  in  the  understory  of  Gambel 
oak  stands  in  dark  organic  soil  and  litter  on  north - 
facing  slopes  and  in  uneroded  canyon  bottoms. 
Elevations  range  from  7120  to  8400  feet.  Substrates 
were  rhyolite,  andesite,  and  quartz-monzonite  on 
slopes  from  5  to  40  degrees  with  aspects  mostly 
northwest  to  northeast  between  250  degrees  and 
45  degrees.  The  best  populations  found  during 
1990-1992  in  terms  of  size,  condition,  and  quality 
of  habitat  were  on  the  north  slopes  of  the  highest 
peaks  and  ridges. 

Associated  species  under  stands  of  Gambel 
oak  and  ponderosa  pine  included  Douglas  fir, 
stinging  nettle.  New  Mexico  locust,  Ptelea,  Tha- 
lictrwn,  Geranium,  Symphoricarpos,  and  Ribes . 

The  smooth  figwort  is  probably  palatable  to 
cattle  and  would  be  impacted  if  its  habitat  were 
open  to  grazing  on  a  regular  basis.  The  sporadic 
grazing  that  occurs  now  did  not  appear  to  affect 
this  species  during  the  three  autumn  seasons  of 
our  surveys.  Since  it  grows  in  the  understory  on 
organic  soil  and  litter,  an  intense  fire  could  destroy 
its  habitat  for  a  time.  Recovery  potential  of  a 
population  after  fire  might  depend  on  the  degree 
of  damage  to  the  oak  overstory  and  the  amount  of 
soil  loss  from  erosion  following  the  fire.  Monitor- 
ing of  these  effects  will  start  in  1996. 

Draba  standleyi  was  found  on  only  three  sites 
in  two  canyons  on  the  north  side  of  the  highest 
peaks  and  ridges  of  this  rugged  mountain  range. 
Across  its  range,  it  grows  at  elevations  from  6000 
to  9400  feet  in  the  mixed  conifer  vegetation  zone 
on  cliffs  and  large  boulders,  almost  always  in 
mesic,  north-facing  shaded  locations  on  rhyolite  or 
other  igneous  substrates.  In  the  Organ  Mountains 
it  was  found  on  small  and  large  rhyolite  boulders, 
as  well  as  cliffs  from  6500  to  8450  feet  on  northerly 
aspects. 

Associated  species  were  Coryphantha  organen- 
sis,  Heuchera  rubescens,  Sedum,  mosses,  and  lichens. 

There  are  no  apparent  threats  to  the  species.  It 
was  found  in  a  low-intensity  burn  area  at  one 
location  in  the  Chiricahua  Mountains  of  Arizona 


(Malusa  et  al.  1992)  The  known  populations  will 
be  monitored  for  effects  from  the  fire  starting  in 
1996. 

Coryphantha  organensis  was  found  in  all  but  the 
most  open  and  dry  canyons  in  the  northern  half  of 
the  range.  It  was  not  found  in  the  southern  part  of 
the  Organ  Mountains  and  does  not  appear  to  form 
a  continuous  population  with  the  endangered 
Coryphanth  sneedii  var.  sneedii  that  has  been  found 
on  the  limestone  ridges  of  the  next  mountains  to 
the  south. 

C.  organensis  was  found  growing  on  rocks  at 
elevations  of  5750-8500  feet  from  the  pinon- 
juniper  to  mixed  conifer  vegetation  zones.  It  was 
most  abundant  on  rhyolitic  substrates,  but  was 
also  found  on  granitic  substrates  at  a  few  of  the 
sites  surveyed.  Slope  positions  ranged  from  ridge 
crests  down  to  the  base  of  canyon  side  slopes,  and 
degree  of  slope  seemed  insignificant  as  long  as 
stable  rocks  were  present.  All  aspects  were  occu- 
pied, but  the  lowest  potential  for  this  species 
occurred  on  the  most  exposed  south-facing  slopes. 
Habitat  with  highest  potential  was  on  the  north 
side  of  open  rocky  ridges.  Plants  were  found  most 
frequently  in  mesic  microhabitats  with  strong 
light.  They  were  frequently  on  the  north  side  of 
boulders,  in  Selaginella  mats,  and  on  canyon  sides 
in  crevices,  soil  pockets,  and  ledges  on  the  rock. 
On  wooded  hillsides  they  appeared  in  small 
clearings  among  the  trees. 

Associated  species  included  Pinus  edulis, 
Jimiperus  deppeana,  Quercus  gambellii,  Heuchera, 
Selaginella,  Garrya  wrightii,  Cercocarpus  montanus. 
Yucca  baccata,  and  Echinocereus  triglochidiatus. 

Plants  grow  in  patches  scattered  over  rugged 
canyon  sides  that  are  nearly  inaccessible  on  Fort 
Bliss.  Collection  may  occur  around  the  BLM 
recreation  areas.  No  signs  of  herbivory  or  disease 
were  observed.  The  1994  fire  burned  across  most 
of  the  range  for  C.  organensis .  Mortality  and  fire 
effects  on  the  habitat  will  be  monitored  starting  in 
1996. 

Discussion 

The  highest  impact  to  plant  populations  from 
public  recreational  use  is  along  the  shared  Fort 
Bliss /BLM  boundaries  on  the  west  and  north  sides 
of  the  Organ  Mountains.  Cooperation  on  manage- 
ment and  monitoring  programs  between  the  two 
agencies'  biologists  would  be  beneficial  to  the  rare 
plant  populations  that  occur  in  these  high-use 
areas.  The  Dripping  Springs  boundary  area  has 
small  populations  of  four  of  the  rare  species. 


314 


Monitoring  the  impact  of  public  use  in  that  area 
compared  to  control  sites  that  are  not  accessible  to 
the  public  may  provide  useful  information  for 
management  of  the  species. 

Fillmore  Canyon  and  its  watershed  contains 
healthy  populations  of  all  five  rare  and  endemic 
plant  species.  It  is  one  of  the  most  outstanding 
natural  botanical  areas  in  New  Mexico.  The  condi- 
tion of  the  riparian  area  and  the  Oenothera  organen  - 
sis  population  there  could  be  improved  by  fencing 
the  boundary  to  exclude  the  cattle  that  are  grazing 
there. 

Oenothera  organensis  may  be  the  most  threat- 
ened of  the  Organ  Mountain  endemic  plants  be- 
cause it  depends  on  surface  water.  Drawing  down 
of  the  water  level  by  new  wells  or  diversion  of 
springs  and  runoff  water  would  probably  elimi- 
nate most  of  the  extant  populations. 

Fort  Bliss  is  responsible  for  stewardship  of  all 
or  most  of  the  habitat  for  the  four  endemic  plant 
species  in  the  Organ  Mountains.  If  this  critical 
habitat  became  subject  to  major  disturbances  or 
water  loss,  one  or  more  of  these  four  species 
would  probably  be  proposed  for  listing  as  endan- 
gered. These  rare  species  have  not  been  proposed 
for  federal  endangered  or  threatened  status 
because  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Plant  Recovery 
Team  and  the  public  believe  that  the  species  are 
secure  within  the  military  reservation  portion  of 
the  Organ  Mountains.  At  the  same  time,  the  Fort 
Bliss  Natural  Resources  office  needs  public  sup- 
port for  preservation  of  these  species  to  justify  its 
continued  special  management  of  the  habitat. 

Following  our  surveys,  the  New  Mexico  Nat- 
ural Heritage  Program  recommended  monitoring 
to  document  the  population  trends  of  the  species 
at  risk  in  the  Organ  Mountains  and  the  changes  in 
their  habitat  over  time.  The  1994  lightning  fire 
spread  across  most  of  the  habitat  covered  by  our 
plant  surveys.  In  1996,  we  will  again  have  the 
support  from  Fort  Bliss  to  establish  a  long-term 
monitoring  program  for  burned  and  unburned 
samples  of  the  populations  that  were  surveyed 
previously  on  Fort  Bliss.  We  will  also  complete  the 
surveys  for  these  species  on  BLM  land  in  the 
Organ  Mountains  in  1995  with  support  from  the 
National  Biological  Service.  Together  the  informa- 
tion from  Fort  Bliss  and  the  BLM  portions  of  the 
Organ  Mountains  will  allow  us  to  assess  the  global 
status  of  the  four  endemic  species  and  the  New 
Mexico  status  of  D.  standleyi. 


Acknowledgments 

Support  for  this  research  was  provided  by  the 
Directorate  of  Environment,  Cultural/Natural 
Resources  Division,  Fort  Bliss,  Texas;  we  thank 
Kevin  Von  Finger  for  his  assistance.  The  Dripping 
Springs  Natural  Area  staff  also  were  generous 
with  their  assistance. 

Literature  Cited 

DeBruin,  E.,  P.  Mehlhop,  and  E.  Muldavin.  1994.  A  sur- 
vey of  sensitive  species  and  vegetation  communities 
in  the  Organ  Mountains  of  Fort  Bliss.  Final  report  to 
the  Directorate  of  Environment,  Fort  Bliss,  Texas. 
New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program,  Albuquer- 
que, NM. 

Dietrich,  W.,  P.H.  Raven,  and  W.L.  Wagner.  1985.  Re- 
vision of  Oenothera  sect.  Oenothera  subsect.  Emersonia 
(Onagraceae).  Systematic  Botany  10(l):29-48. 

Hitchcock,  C.L.  1941.  A  revision  of  the  Drabas  of  west- 
ern North  America.  University  of  Washington  Publi- 
cation 11:1-132. 

Malusa,  J.,  D.F.  Gori,  P.L.  Warren,  and  E.S.  Monarque. 
1992.  Population  studies  of  sensitive  plants  of  the 
Coronado  National  Forest,  Arizona.  Unpublished 
report  of  work  performed  under  cost-share  agree- 
ment between  The  Nature  Conservancy  and  the 
Coronado  National  Forest. 

Niles,  W.E.  1970.  Taxonomic  investigations  in  the  genera 
Perityle  and  Laphamia  (Compositae).  Memoirs  of  New 
York  Botanical  Garden  21(l):l-82. 

Seager,  W.R.  1981.  Geology  of  the  Organ  Mountains  and 
southern  San  Andres  Mountains,  New  Mexico.  Mem- 
oir 36.  New  Mexico  Bureau  of  Mines  and  Mineral 
Resources.  New  Mexico  Institute  of  Mining  and 
Technology. 

Skaggs,  K.E.  1993.  Distribution  and  habitat  of  Oenothera 
organensis  and  Perityle  cermia,  endemics  of  the  Organ 
Mountains,  New  Mexico.  In  Sivinski,  R.  and  K. 
Lightfoot,  editors.  Proceedings  of  the  Southwestern 
Rare  and  Endangered  Plant  Conference,  pp.  103-107. 
Energy,  Minerals  and  Natural  Resources  Depart- 
ment, Santa  Fe,  NM. 

Soreng,  R.p  1986.  Vegetation  analysis  of  Dripping 
Springs  and  Indian  Hollow  in  the  Organ  Mountains. 
Unpublished  report  prepared  for  the  Nature  Conser- 
vancy, Albuquerque  NM. 

Todsen,  T.K.  1978.  Scrophnlaria  laevis,  a  legitimate  spe- 
cies. Madrono  25(2):106-107. 

Worthington,  R.D.  1981.  Status  report  on  OenotJiera 
organensis.  Prepared  for  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife, 
Albuquerque,  NM. 

Zimmerman,  A.D.  1985.  Systematics  of  the  genus 
Coryphantha  (Cactaceae).  Dissertation,  University  of 
Texas,  Austin. 


315 


Monitoring  and  Population  Biology  of  Talinum  validulum 
on  the  Kaibab  National  Forest,  Arizona 

ARTHUR  M.  PHILLIPS,  IH^  and  DIEDRE  WE  AGE  2 

■^Botanical  &  Environmental  Consulting,  P.O.  Box  201,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86002 
^Arizona  Botanical  Consulting,  P.O.  Box  23459,  Flagstaff,  Arizona  86002 

Abstract:  Talinum  validulum,  the  Tusayan  flameflower,  has  received  considerable  attention 
since  the  late  1980s  due  to  several  large-scale  development  plans  proposed  for  the  Tusayan 
area,  adjacent  to  Grand  Canyon  National  Park.  Initially,  very  few  sites  were  documented. 
Surveys  since  1990  on  the  Tusayan,  Chalender,  and  Williams  ranger  districts,  as  well  as  the 
Prescott  National  Forest,  have  revealed  many  new  localities  for  the  species.  Four  monitoring 
plots  established  in  August,  1990,  and  read  monthly  during  the  growing  season  until  Octo- 
ber, 1994,  have  provided  much  information  about  the  phenology  and  population  biology  of 
the  species. 


Introduction 

Field  investigations  on  the  distribution  and 
ecology  of  Talinum  validulum  Greene  (Tusayan 
flameflower)  were  carried  out  from  August,  1990 
to  September,  1994  under  contract  with  the  Kaibab 
National  Forest.  Studies  included  the  establish- 
ment of  four  monitoring  plots  to  study  phenology 
and  population  biology,  surveys  to  determine  the 
range  and  distribution  of  the  species  on  the  Forest, 
and  comparisons  with  similar  species  (Phillips 
1993). 

Talinum  validulum,  a  member  of  the  Portulaca- 
ceae,  occurs  in  Coconino  and  Yavapai  counties, 
Arizona,  and  is  known  from  four  widely  separated 
areas:  throughout  most  of  the  Tusayan  Ranger 
District  and  in  limited  areas  of  the  Chalender  and 
Williams  districts  of  the  Kaibab  National  Forest, 
on  the  Chino  Valley  and  Walnut  Creek  districts  of 
the  Prescott  National  Forest,  and  on  private  lands 
near  Grand  Canyon  Caverns.  A  1916  collection  by 
Bertaud  near  Santa  Fe,  New  Mexico,  has  been 
neither  verified  nor  relocated.  It  was  first  collected 
by  Leiberg  on  23  September  1901  from  cinder 
slopes  at  Rattlesnake  Tank,  northwest  of  the  San 
Francisco  Peaks,  a  locality  that  has  not  been  relo- 
cated. The  type  specimen  was  collected  by  R.R. 
Hill  in  the  Tusayan  Forest  Reserve  in  August, 
1912,  and  the  species  was  described  by  E.L.  Greene 
(1912)  (Reichenbacher  1986).  The  species  is  cur- 
rently listed  as  a  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service  cat- 
egory 2  candidate  species  (U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Service  1993,  Rutman  1992)  and  a  Forest  Service 
Region  3  sensitive  species  (USDA  Forest  Service 
1990). 

The  plant  is  a  low  perennial  herb  with  fleshy 
leaves  and  a  tuberous  root.  The  stems  die  back  to 
the  root  crown  each  fall,  breaking  dormancy  in 


May  and  remaining  active  until  entering  fall  dor- 
mancy between  mid-September  and  mid-October. 
Plants  have  one  to  several  branches,  the  larger 
individuals  tending  to  have  elongated  horizontally 
spreading  branches.  Flowering  may  occur  soon 
after  the  plants  break  dormancy  in  the  spring  or  it 
may  be  postponed  until  mid-summer  if  spring 
conditions  are  dry.  In  most  years  two  flowering 
seasons  occur,  separated  by  a  period  of  semi- 
dormancy  in  June  and  July  during  the  hot,  dry 
period  preceding  the  onset  of  summer  rains. 

Tusayan  flameflower  occurs  on  soils  of  both 
limestone  and  volcanic  origin.  More  important 
than  substrate  is  the  microhabitat  of  shallow, 
gravelly  soils  in  small  depressions  in  bedrock. 
Such  sites  may  occur  over  an  open  area  of  several 
acres,  as  on  a  basalt  flow  at  the  Pine  Flat  site,  or  in 
extremely  local,  limited  areas  as  in  many  Kaibab 
Limestone  canyon  rim  sites  in  the  Tusayan  area. 
The  shallow  soils  preclude  the  establishm.ent  and 
survival  of  most  shrubs  and  many  other  herbs, 
reducing  competition  from  other  species  and  mak- 
ing the  microsites  with  their  comparatively  barren 
appearance  stand  out  from  surrounding  areas. 

Previous  recent  field  surveys  for  the  plant 
include  a  status  report  prepared  by  Reichenbacher 
(1986)  which  included  surveys  in  the  Pine  Flat  area 
south  of  Williams  and  at  Grand  Canyon  Caverns 
and  file  reports  of  field  surveys  by  Galeano-Popp 
(1988,  1989)  in  the  Pine  Flat  area.  Plants  were  relo- 
cated for  the  first  time  in  77  years  in  the  Tusayan 
area  near  Grand  Canyon  Airport  by  B.  Phillips  and 
S.  Treptow  in  1989  while  carrying  out  a  survey  for 
a  proposed  Grand  Canyon  Railroad  spur  align- 
ment. As  a  result  of  intensive  surveys  carried  out 
from  1990  to  1992  by  the  authors  of  this  report, 
Kaibab  National  Forest  personnel,  and  others. 


316 


many  additional  locations  and  thousands  of  plants 
have  been  found. 

Methods 

Studies  on  Talimim  validulum  included  field 
searches  throughout  its  range  on  the  Kaibab  Na- 
tional Forest  to  determine  its  range,  abundance, 
and  habitat  characteristics,  and  monitoring  of 
selected  sites  to  collect  data  on  its  phenology, 
ecology,  and  life  history. 

Surveys  carried  out  for  this  project  were  de- 
signed to  cover  a  wide  geographical  range  in  order 
to  document  the  distribution  of  Talinum  validulum 
on  the  Tusayan  District.  Field  surveys  were  carried 
out  in  most  areas  of  the  district,  with  stops  made 
to  check  for  plants  when  apparently  suitable  habi- 
tat was  observed. 

Searches  were  initially  carried  out  using 
known  sites  as  a  center  of  occurrence  and  moving 
out  in  all  directions,  surveying  for  suitable  habitat 
and  sites  that  have  plants.  The  species  is  very  habi- 
tat specific  and  it  is  found  only  in  areas  having  the 
necessary  substrate  characteristics.  Surveying  for 
proper  habitat  is  the  most  efficient  procedure  in 
view  of  the  small  size,  local  occurrence,  and  diffi- 
culty in  finding  the  plants.  Because  of  develop- 
ment pressures,  surveys  were  carried  out  much 
more  intensively  near  Tusayan  and  Grand  Canyon 
Airport. 

Most  of  the  time  spent  on  the  Williams  District 
was  used  for  monitoring  studies  of  the  population 
at  Pine  Flat.  Other  previously  reported  sites  were 
relocated  or  verified.  The  full  extent  of  the  popula- 
tion at  Pine  Flat  was  not  determined;  however,  a 
number  of  negative  searches  were  carried  out  in 
the  general  vicinity  of  the  known  sites. 

Forest  Service  personnel  have  searched  for 
Talinum  validulum  in  several  parts  of  the  Kaibab 
National  Forest.  This  information  has  been  made 
available  and  is  included  in  order  to  make  this 
report  as  complete  as  possible.  These  searches 
were  made  on  selected  parcels  proposed  for  ex- 
change east  of  Grand  Canyon  Airport,  and  on 
isolated  offered  inholdings  of  private  land  located 
throughout  the  Tusayan  District. 

Four  1  m^  monitoring  plots  were  set  up  in 
August,  1990,  to  determine  the  seasonal  phenol- 
ogy, ecology,  and  life  history  of  the  species,  and 
assess  characteristics  for  its  accurate  separation 
from  the  closely  related  Talinum  parviflorum.  Plots 
1-3  were  established  at  Pine  Flat  on  the  Williams 
District  and  Plot  4  was  set  up  southeast  of  Grand 
Canyon  Airport  on  the  Tusayan  District. 


A  one-square-meter  wooden  plot  frame  was 
constructed  with  a  10  cm  grid  system  that  allowed 
accurate  mapping  of  individual  plants  within  each 
plot.  The  location  of  each  plant  was  recorded  by 
grid  square,  and  if  more  than  one  plant  was  pres- 
ent in  a  square,  each  plant  was  also  recorded  by 
coordinates  within  the  square  to  0.1  cm.  Each  plant 
was  numbered  at  the  initial  reading  or  at  its  initial 
appearance  and  the  same  number  remained  with 
the  plant  throughout  the  project.  If  a  plant  died,  its 
number  was  not  reassigned. 

The  plots  were  established  in  August,  1990, 
and  were  read  approximately  once  per  month 
during  the  growing  season  (April  or  May  through 
September  or  October)  through  the  1994  season. 
At  each  of  the  readings  the  following  parameters 
were  recorded:  plant  height,  plant  width,  number 
of  branches,  number  of  inflorescences,  and  num- 
ber of  buds,  flowers,  and  fruits. 

At  the  time  plots  were  established,  there  were 
many  seedlings  present  at  the  Pine  Flat  sites. 
Seedlings  in  some  grid  squares  were  initially  given 
plant  numbers  and  their  grid  locations  were  re- 
corded, as  with  adult  plants.  Seedlings  in  other 
squares  were  simply  counted.  Surviving  seedlings 
from  1990  that  had  not  been  numbered  initially 
were  given  numbers  in  May,  1992.  Seedling  counts 
by  grid  square  were  continued  throughout  the 
project. 

Results  and  Discussion 

Surveys  for  Talinum  validulum  have  provided  a 
much  clearer  picture  of  its  distribution  and  abun- 
dance than  was  known  previously  (Phillips  1993). 
On  the  Tusayan  District,  the  plant  was  unreported 
for  77  years  until  a  few  small  sites  were  discovered 
in  1989,  followed  by  intensive  and  extensive 
surveys  that  have  documented  its  distribution  at 
dozens  of  sites  with  thousands  of  individuals 
throughout  the  district.  It  has  also  been  located  at 
new  sites  on  the  Chalender  and  Williams  districts, 
and  recent  surveys  have  extended  its  distribution 
to  the  Prescott  National  Forest  where  numerous 
populations  and  thousands  of  individuals  have 
been  discovered  (Baker  and  Wright  1993).  Plants 
closely  resembling  T.  validulum  were  reported 
from  the  Blue  Ridge  District  in  the  southeastern 
part  of  the  Coconino  National  Forest  by  C.  Franz 
in  September,  1995  (B.  Phillips,  personal  communi- 
cation); these  have  not  been  verified  in  the  field. 

Monitoring  plots  established  at  Pine  Flat  and 
near  Tusayan  in  August,  1990,  and  read  monthly 
during  the  growing  season  through  1994,  have 


317 


provided  information  on  the  ecology  and  phenol- 
ogy of  the  species.  This  has  given  land  managers 
information  useful  for  managing  the  species  and 
carrying  out  surveys  during  optimum  times  of  the 
year.  Problems  with  the  separation  of  T.  validulum 
from  the  similar  species  T.  parviflorum  have  been 
addressed  and  guidelines  have  been  developed  for 
separating  them  in  the  field. 

General  Ecology 

Talinum  validulum  is  narrowly  habitat  specific 
and  its  limitation  to  a  specialized  habitat  occurring 
in  small,  disjunct  patches  over  a  wide  area  is  the 
reason  for  its  distribution  in  isolated  dispersed 
colonies.  The  colonies  may  be  fairly  dense  when 
substrate  conditions  are  favorable.  The  plants 
occur  in  thin,  gravelly  soils  in  shallow  depressions 
in  bedrock  along  the  rims  of  drainages,  where 
shallow  gravel  pockets  occur  at  the  tops  of  out- 
crops and  walls,  and  along  the  spines  of  broad, 
low,  gently  sloping  ridges  where  bedrock  occurs  at 
the  surface.  Sites  visited  on  the  Kaibab  National 
Forest  during  this  study  range  in  elevation  from 
1870  to  2180  m.  General  vegetation  ranges  from 
open  ponderosa  pine  forest  to  pinyon-juniper 
woodland,  with  an  understory  of  sagebrush  at 
lower  sites. 

The  microsites  where  the  plants  occur  are 
generally  flat  or  nearly  flat,  although  the  general 
surrounding  area  may  be  steeply  sloping,  espe- 
cially in  canyon  rim  sites.  Soils  at  the  microsites 
are  sufficiently  shallow  so  that  few  other  plants 
can  survive.  Talinum  is  apparently  quite  tolerant  of 
the  harsh  microenvironment  of  alternating  wet 
soils  when  rains  fill  the  bedrock  basins  with  water, 
and  exaggerated  drought  when  the  pockets  dry 
out  and  are  isolated  from  deeper  subsurface  mois- 
ture. Sites  where  the  plants  are  not  usually  found 
include  areas  with  deep  alluvial  soils,  as  along 
drainages,  under  trees  where  thick  litter  is  present, 
and  on  slopes  with  dense  vegetation  such  as  oak 
thickets  along  the  sides  of  drainages. 

The  presence  of  comparatively  barren  open- 
ings in  areas  with  sagebrush,  grama  grass,  and 
other  dense  herbaceous  or  shrubby  ground  cover 
vegetation  is  a  field  clue  for  a  potential  Talinum 
occurrence;  it  does  not  compete  well  with  other 
species.  The  plants  tolerate  moderate  shade,  but 
do  not  grow  under  the  canopy  of  trees  or  shrubs. 
Trees  and  large  shrubs  are  rarely  rooted  in  the 
pockets,  although  the  boundary  between  a  pocket 
and  an  adjacent  area  of  deeper  soils  is  sometimes 
so  abrupt  that  Talinum  may  occur  near  species  in 
the  general  area  with  little  or  no  transition,  and 


probably  very  minimal  substrate  competition. 
While  Talinum  does  not  tolerate  competition  from 
other  species,  it  appears  to  be  moderately  tolerant 
of  habitat  disturbance,  as  sites  were  found  in  old 
two-track  roadways,  in  areas  that  received  spo- 
radic disturbance  from  camping,  and  in  areas 
adjacent  to  moderately  used  cattle  watering  or 
feeding  sites  where  other  vegetation  was  removed 
by  grazing  and  trampling. 

One  curious  aspect  of  Talinum  validulum  dis- 
tribution is  its  occurrence  in  similar  habitats  in 
very  different  substrate  types.  All  of  the  occur- 
rences at  Tusayan  are  associated  with  Kaibab 
Limestone  bedrock,  while  the  sites  in  the  Pine  Flat 
area  and  on  the  south  Chalender  are  on  substrate 
of  volcanic  origin.  The  shallow  bedrock  depres- 
sions are  the  common  denominator,  rather  than 
the  rock  type.  Rhyolite  or  basalt  substrate  is  absent 
at  Tusayan,  and  limestone,  at  least  at  the  surface,  is 
not  present  in  areas  where  the  plants  occur  south 
of  Williams.  Sites  on  the  Prescott  National  Forest, 
some  20  miles  south  of  Pine  Flat,  are  reported  by 
Baker  and  Wright  (1993)  to  occur  exclusively  on 
limestone  substrate;  the  plants  apparently  are 
lacking  from  nearby  basaltic  soils. 

Distribution 

There  are  two  main  centers  of  occurrence  for 
Talinum  validulum  in  the  Kaibab  National  Forest: 
the  Tusayan  District  and  the  southeastern  corner 
of  the  forest  between  Garland  Prairie  and  Perkins - 
ville  Road  (Figure  1).  Although  apparently  suit- 
able habitat  is  present  between  these  areas,  no 
plants  have  been  found. 

Table  1  presents  a  summary  of  T.  validulum 
sites  found  on  Kaibab  National  Forest  lands  from 
August,  1990  to  September,  1992  by  the  authors  of 
this  report  and  associates  and  by  Kaibab  National 
Forest  personnel.  Additional  sites  found  on  the 
Prescott  National  Forest  by  M.  Baker  and  within 
Grand  Canyon  National  Park  by  the  National  Park 
Service  are  not  included  in  this  table.  These  are  the 
main  surveys  carried  out  during  the  period.  The 
Kaibab  National  Forest  surveys  have  resulted  in 
nearly  16,000  plants  actually  counted  in  a  total 
occupied  area  of  approximately  20  ha.  Estimates 
and  extrapolations  are  not  included  in  this  compi- 
lation and  many  more  plants  at  uncensused  sites 
certainly  exist.  Eighty-four  sites  were  documented 
on  the  Kaibab  National  Forest  and  11  sites  were 
mapped  on  the  Prescott. 

The  documented  distribution  of  sites  is  in  part 
a  result  of  the  need  for  surveys  in  response  to  vari- 
ous land  exchange  and  development  proposals. 


318 


(ujuj)  M)p!M  UBSiAj 


CO 
*-» 

o 

■#-» 

re 
E 

3 


c 
u 

0) 

o 
«^ 
c 


E 

3 


(0 


■a 
c 

(0 
"O 

mmm 

C 


£ 

JO 

4-* 

■a 


to 
o 
o 
c 

(U 

o 
w 


T6-unr 


T6/06  JaiuiM 


06<l3S 
06-3nv 


OJ 

o 

o 
Z 

•  fH 

C 
o 


U 
O 


a; 
i-i 
:3 

bp 


IT) 
CN 


ID 


d 


$9ua3SdJ0|jU|  io  jaqiunN  ue8|/\| 


319 


Table  1.  Summary  of  TaJinum  validulum  sites  found  on 
Kaibab  National  Forest  lands  during  surveys  by  Forest 
Service  personnel  and  A.  Phillips  and  Associates, 
August  1990-September  1992. 


Area  No.  Sites    Size  (m  ^)     No.  Plants 


Tusayan  Ranger  District 


Dodd  and  Bass  Tanks 

3 

1721 

456 

Brush  Tank 

1 

3720 

20 

Sheep  and  Sam  Moore  Tanks 

3 

1683 

327 

South  of  GC  Airport 

14 

48,221 

3884 

l/Vpst  of  Tiisavan 

11 

453 

1066+ 

East  of  GC  Airport 

24 

85,950 

5299 

Tusayan 

5 

— 

729 

L.  Red  Horse  Wash 

1 

0.8 

8 

Upper  lOX  Tank 

3 

158 

563 

East  of  Red  Butte 

2 

950 

150+ 

Northeast  of  Red  Butte 

1 

279 

60+ 

Russell  Wash 

5 

270 

100+ 

Willows 

4 

8,370+ 

240+ 

Tappan  Wash 

1 

9 

50 

Lee  Canyon 

1 

500 

Chalender  Ranger  District 

White  Horse  Lake  Rd. 

1 

40,500 

200+ 

Frenchy  Can. 

5 

785 

N.  of  Big  Spring  Can. 

9 

1060 

LO  Spring 

1 

200 

Williams  Ranger  District 

Pine  Flat  (Plots  1-3) 

1 

3 

128 

Kaibab  National  Forest 

Total  plants  counted  at  96  sites:  15,697 

Total  area  recorded:  total  plants  counted  at  192,288      =  19.2  ha 


Thus,  the  area  around  Tusayan  and  Grand  Canyon 
Airport  has  been  more  intensively  surveyed  than 
other  portions  of  the  range  of  the  species  and 
appears  to  be  a  center  of  distribution  for  the 
species  with  many  colonies  of  plants  located 
within  a  relatively  small  area.  This  area  contains 
an  abundance  of  suitable  microsites;  whether  a 
similar  density  of  sites  exists  elsewhere  has  not 
been  documented  as  surveys  of  comparable 
intensity  have  not  been  done. 

Accessible  terrain  away  from  the  Tusayan 
village  area  was  surveyed  to  check  for  suitable 
habitat.  The  plants  were  usually  found  in  areas 
that  appeared  to  the  investigator  to  have  the  right 
conditions.  In  the  summer  of  1990,  Forest  Service 
personnel  surveyed  small,  isolated  parcels  of  pri- 
vate inholdings  offered  for  exchange;  populations 
of  Talinum  validulum  were  found  on  several  of 
these,  with  plants  located  at  nearly  extreme  east 
and  west  ends  of  the  District.  Our  surveys  during 
the  1992  season  were  designed  to  ascertain  wheth- 
er these  were  isolated  occurrences  or  whether  the 
plants  are  found  more  or  less  continuously 
throughout  the  district  where  suitable  microsites 
exist.  The  latter  appears  to  be  the  case,  except  for 


the  southern  boundary  area  and  the  northeast 
corner  of  the  district,  where  suitable  habitat  is  rare 
and  conditions  are  probably  unfavorable  due  to 
low  elevation. 

On  the  Williams  District,  surveys  were  carried 
out  east,  south,  and  west  of  the  Pine  Flat  site  in  an 
effort  to  locate  additional  sites  in  the  area.  Al- 
though several  additional  localities  for  T.  parvi- 
florum  were  found,  no  T.  validulum  was  located. 
Suitable  habitat  appears  to  be  present  in  scattered 
areas  but  all  sites  visited  were  smaller  than  the 
Pine  Flat  meadow,  generally  less  rocky  and  with 
better  developed  soils.  These  surveys  were  spot 
checks  rather  than  systematic,  complete  searches; 
we  can  conclude  only  that  T.  validulum  is  not 
widespread  and  that  its  occurrences  are  local,  not 
that  it  is  present  only  at  the  known  site. 

In  the  Chalender  District,  a  search  for  a 
previously  known  site  (Galeano-Popp  1988)  was 
relocated  on  the  north  side  of  the  White  Horse 
Lake  Road  (FR  110)  in  a  rocky,  open  area  about  4 
ha  in  size.  The  site  is  flat  and  very  rocky  with  thin 
soils  and  basalt  bedrock  outcrops  and  strikingly 
fewer  ponderosa  pine  than  in  the  surrounding 
forest.  It  resembles  the  site  at  Pine  Flat.  Several 
hundred  plants  were  present  when  the  site  was 
visited  in  August,  1991. 

A  number  of  additional  sites  within  the 
Chalender  District  were  found  by  Forest  Service 
personnel  conducting  wildlife  surveys  in  August, 
1992  in  the  Frenchy  Canyon  area  and  between  KA 
Hill  and  the  Sycamore  Canyon  vista  parking  area. 
Some  2000  plants  were  located  and  mapped 
during  this  survey.  Both  species  were  reported  at 
some  of  the  sites  (see  Table  1). 

Comparison  o/ Talinum  validulum 
and  T.  parviflorum 

Throughout  much  of  the  range  on  the  Kaibab 
National  Forest,  both  species  of  Talinum  are  often 
found  occurring  together  or  at  least  in  some  prox- 
imity. As  they  are  difficult  to  distinguish  without 
close  examination,  this  has  caused  some  problems 
in  the  past. 

Differences  between  the  two  species  given  in 
keys  (e.g.,  Kearney  and  Peebles  1960)  are  not 
necessarily  consistent  in  the  field.  Stamen  number 
is  one  separation,  cited  as  10  or  more  for  T.  validu- 
lum and  4-8  for  T.  parviflorum.  For  T.  validulum, 
our  field  counts  on  the  Tusayan  District  included  a 
site  near  Sheep  Tank  where  plants  had  a  mean  of 
10.2  stamens  with  a  range  of  6-13  for  43  flowers 
and  a  site  west  of  Rain  Tank  Wash  with  a  mean  of 
13.4  and  a  range  of  9-17  for  24  flowers.  A  count  of 


320 


13  flowers  near  Plot  3  at  Pine  Flat  showed  a  mean 
of  8.6  and  a  range  of  7-10.  Number  of  stamens  on 
24  Talimim  parviflorum  flowers  at  a  site  east  of  Pine 
Flat  had  a  mean  of  4.96  with  a  range  of  4-6;  all  but 
three  flowers  had  five  stamens.  This  small  sample 
indicates  that  stamen  counts  may  be  diagnostic, 
but  within  ranges  differing  from  those  previously 
published.  They  are  difficult  to  obtain  as  flowers 
do  not  appear  until  mid  to  late  afternoon  and  may 
not  be  present  during  significant  portions  of  the 
growing  season,  depending  on  precipitation. 

Another  separation  in  the  key  is  the  combined 
length  of  stems  and  scapes,  given  as  less  than  10 
cm  for  T.  validuhim  and  "commonly  at  least  10  cm 
long"  for  T.  parviflorum  (Kearney  and  Peebles 
1960).  In  the  field,  stem  and  scape  lengths  are 
heavily  dependent  on  seasonal  and  rainfall  varia- 
tions and  do  not  provide  an  accurate  separation 
between  the  species. 

In  areas  where  the  two  species  occur  together, 
growth  form  is  a  fairly  consistent  differentiating 
character,  although  it  is  often  difficult  to  interpret. 
T.  validuhim  plants  may  develop  one  to  several 
elongated,  horizontal  leafy  stems,  especially  in  late 
summer,  which  die  back  to  an  overwintering  bud 
at  the  top  of  an  enlarged  more  or  less  vertical 
storage  root  at  or  below  the  soil  surface  when  they 
enter  dormancy  in  the  fall.  T.  ■parviflorum  produces 
short,  leafy  tufts  at  the  tips  of  perennial  above- 
ground  stems  each  season,  with  the  leaves  but  not 
the  stem  dying  in  dormancy.  Older  plants  thus 
have  an  elongated,  horizontal  tuberlike  prostrate 
stem  on  the  soil  surface.  The  anatomical  root/ stem 
characteristics  of  these  storage  structures  was  not 
investigated;  however,  their  behavior  in  the  two 
species  is  quite  different.  Difficulties  in  using  this 
characteristic  arise  in  particularly  rocky  areas  with 
soils  so  shallow  that  T.  validulum  roots  are  partially 
exposed  above  the  surface  and  with  juvenile 
plants  in  which  the  elongated  stems  of  T.  parvi- 
florum have  not  yet  developed. 

There  are  also  significant  and  consistent  differ- 
ences in  pigments  present  in  the  two  species.  T. 
validulum  has  a  higher  proportion  of  red  pigments, 
giving  the  leaves  a  dark  green  or  gray-green  color, 
often  with  red  tips.  The  leaves  turn  bright  red  (like 
tiny  flames,  hence  the  common  name,  "flameflow- 
er")  for  a  brief  period  when  entering  dormancy  in 
the  fall  and  do  not  exhibit  obvious  yellow  colora- 
tion. The  leaves  of  T.  parviflorum  are  yellow-green 
through  the  growing  season  and  turn  yellow  with 
a  speck  of  red  at  the  very  tip  in  the  terminal  0.5 
mm  or  less.  The  entire  leaf  does  not  turn  red. 

Differences  in  the  scapes,  or  flowering  stems. 


are  also  consistent.  Scapes  of  T.  validuhim  are  pro- 
portionately thicker  and  softer,  making  them  more 
pliable.  T.  parviflorum  scapes  are  stiffer  and  thin- 
ner. These  characteristics  appear  to  be  consistent 
regardless  of  length  of  the  inflorescence,  which  is 
influenced  by  rainfall. 

Phenology 

Plants  in  the  plots  exhibited  growth  from  late 
April  or  early  May,  when  they  first  broke  dorman- 
cy, until  a  point  between  mid-September  and  mid- 
October  when  they  ceased  activity  and  entered 
winter  dormancy.  The  onset  of  spring  growth  is 
probably  dependent  on  a  combination  of  favorable 
soil  moisture  conditions  and  warm  temperatures. 
Flowering  was  recorded  in  May,  so  under  the 
proper  conditions  reproduction  may  occur  soon 
after  spring  growth  commences.  Spring  flowering 
was  suspected,  but  had  not  been  documented 
prior  to  this  study;  it  is  possible  that  it  may  not 
occur  every  year  if  spring  conditions  are  severely 
droughty.  Spring  growth  and  flowering  occurred 
during  each  of  the  four  years  of  this  study. 

Following  a  spring  growth  and  flowering 
season  of  several  weeks,  flowering  ceases,  fruits 
are  formed  and  dehisce,  and  the  plants  enter  a 
secondary  dormant  period  during  the  hot,  arid 
pre-summer  rain  period  of  June  and  early  July. 
The  leaves  are  generally  retained,  but  they  lose 
turgidity,  fold  upward  and  inward  over  the  tip  of 
the  stem,  shrivel,  and  turn  an  ashen  gray-green 
color.  They  do  not  turn  red  as  they  do  at  the  onset 
of  winter  dormancy.  During  the  early  summer 
inactive  period  the  plants  are  very  inconspicuous 
and  field  surveys  are  difficult.  In  1992,  unusually 
heavy  rains  in  late  May  and  cool  weather  in  June 
prolonged  the  spring  growth  period  and  the  early 
summer  dormancy  did  not  occur  until  July. 

The  start  of  the  second  growth  period  is  deter- 
mined entirely  by  the  onset  of  the  summer  rainy 
season.  This  may  occur  any  time  between  late  June 
and  late  July,  and  may  vary  by  days  or  even  weeks 
from  place  to  place  within  a  short  distance.  It  is 
unknown  how  much  rain  is  necessary  to  trigger 
growth,  but  the  plants  resume  growing  rapidly 
and  with  adequate  soil  moisture  and  higher 
humidity  they  soon  begin  flowering  and  resume 
stem  elongation.  The  leaves  regain  turgidity  and 
turn  bright  green.  Additional  stems  may  begin  to 
grow  and  large  plants  spread  horizontally  and 
develop  numerous  inflorescences.  This  is  the  main 
growth  and  reproductive  period  of  the  year  and  it 
is  the  period  during  which  field  surveys  are  most 
accurate.  It  also  appears  to  be  the  time  when  most 


321 


germination  occurs. 

The  double  peak  in  growth  for  1991  and  1992 
in  Plot  3  at  Pine  Flat  is  illustrated  by  Figure  2  and 
the  same  pattern  is  exhibited  by  the  two  species  of 
Talinum  present  in  Plot  2  (Figure  3).  Plant  width 
and  number  of  inflorescences  are  correlated  and 
both  respond  to  seasonal  moisture  availability,  as 
represented  by  data  from  Plot  3  (Figure  4). 

The  summer  rains  did  not  begin  until  July  30th 
in  1993,  after  a  6-week  drought,  causing  all  but  one 
plant  at  the  Tusayan  plot  to  enter  a  winter-like 
dormancy,  losing  all  leaves  formed  during  the 
spring  growth  period.  The  leaves  did  not  turn  red, 
as  in  the  fall;  they  simply  wilted  and  fell  off.  Once 
the  rains  began,  the  plants  rapidly  revived,  al- 
though flowering  was  light.  One  of  the  interesting 
aspects  of  the  1993  late  summer  growing  season  at 
Tusayan  was  the  germination  of  30  seedlings  in 
August  and  September.  These  were  the  first  seed- 
lings found  at  this  plot  during  the  study. 

The  onset  of  winter  dormancy  is  probably 
triggered  by  a  combination  of  decreasing  day 
length  and  lower  humidity  and  soil  moisture  after 
the  cessation  of  the  summer  rains.  It  is  quite  vari- 
able, depending  upon  how  long  the  summer  rain- 
fall pattern  is  prolonged  into  September,  or  upon 
the  movement  of  Pacific  tropical  storms  into  the 
Southwest,  an  event  that  occasionally  produces 
abundant  rain  in  early  fall.  The  extreme  dates  for 
plants  entering  dormancy  observed  during  this 
study  were  in  Plot  4  at  Tusayan,  on  September  10, 
1992  and  about  October  15, 1994,  as  determined  by 
the  leaves  turning  bright  red. 

The  survivorship  of  adult  plants  during  the 
five  seasons  of  this  study  was  rather  high  and  the 
plants  may  be  relatively  long  lived  for  an  herba- 
ceous perennial  species.  In  Plot  1,  87.5  percent  (14 
of  16)  of  adult  plants  plotted  in  August,  1990,  were 
still  present  in  September,  1994.  In  Plot  2,  the  sur- 
vivorship was  100  percent  (6  of  6)  for  individuals 
of  T.  validuliim  and  68.2  percent  (15  of  22)  for  T. 
parviflorum.  In  Plot  3,  66.7  percent  (14  of  22)  of  the 
original  adult  plants  survived  and  in  Plot  4,  82.6 
percent  (38  of  46)  of  the  original  plants  were  still 
alive  after  4  years. 

Germination  and  Seedling  Survival 
Seedlings  proved  difficult  to  track,  and  since 
they  were  not  all  located  with  coordinates,  it  was 
not  possible  to  follow  them  except  for  the  few  that 
were  initially  mapped.  Germination  events  were 
noted  every  year  during  the  project,  in  August 
and/or  September  1990,  1991,  1993,  and  1994,  and 
in  May,  1992.  The  May  event  is  probably  unusual 


and  followed  a  rainy  period  occurring  during  a 
usually  dry  time  of  year.  Warm,  wet  periods  in 
late  summer  are  probably  the  normal  germination 
time,  but  the  May  event  shows  that  the  plants  can 
be  opportunistic  and  germinate  when  conditions 
are  favorable.  Of  the  five  events  noted,  the  first  in 
1990  was  most  successful;  nearly  all  germinants  of 
the  other  four  events  died  within  a  few  months 
after  germinating.  Desiccation  during  periods  of 
drought  stress  was  an  important  cause  of  death, 
but  most  seedling  losses  apparently  occurred 
during  the  winter. 

Of  the  36  seedlings  of  the  1990  cohort  mapped 
in  Plots  1-3  in  August,  1990,  three  were  still  alive 
in  September,  1994,  a  survival  rate  of  8.3  percent. 
During  1992,  66  additional  plants  in  the  three  plots 
were  mapped  and  assigned  plant  numbers;  these 
were  seedlings,  mostly  from  1990,  that  had  become 
well  established  by  the  1992  season.  In  1994,  seven 
of  the  35  plants  that  survived  flowered,  while  47.0 
percent  of  the  original  66  were  dead.  It  apparently 
takes  at  least  4  years  for  seedlings  to  reach  repro- 
ductive size. 

No  seedlings  were  noted  for  the  first  3  years  in 
the  Tusayan  plot.  In  1993,  30  seedlings  germinated 
in  August  and  September;  all  had  died  by  Septem- 
ber, 1994.  A  few  new  germinants  were  noted  in 
late  summer,  1994. 

Many  questions  remain  about  the  germination 
process.  It  is  not  known  if  seeds  must  overwinter 
before  germinating  or  if  the  seedlings  first  ob- 
served in  August  were  from  seeds  produced  that 
year.  The  seeds  that  germinated  in  May,  1992  must 
have  come  from  seeds  that  were  produced  the 
previous  summer.  Several  more  years  would  be 
needed  to  determine  at  what  age  plants  first 
flower  and  to  develop  a  survival  rate  from  germi- 
nation to  reproduction. 

Conclusions  and  Management 
Recommendations 

Talinum  validulum  is  a  narrow  edaphic  micro- 
site  endemic  found  in  two  disjunct  areas  on  the 
Kaibab  National  Forest.  Intensive  surveys  since 
1990  have  greatly  extended  the  known  range  and 
abundance  of  the  species,  especially  on  the  Tusa- 
yan Ranger  District.  In  1992,  Baker  and  Wright 
extended  the  distribution  to  the  Prescott  National 
Forest,  reporting  thousands  of  plants,  and  report- 
ing a  possible  new  population  from  the  southeast- 
ern part  of  the  Coconino  National  Forest  in  1995. 

Several  major  proposed  developments  and 
projects  in  the  Tusayan  area  have  the  potential  to 


322 


323 


CM 

o 

Q. 

*-» 
(0 

? 

(A 
T3 

■MM 

C 

(U 


E 

3 
C 

w 


C 
O 

(0 
CL 

E 
o 
o 


□ 


□ 


-  36-Bnv 
--  S6-|nr 
--  26-unr 

26/T6  JaiuiM 

T6-3nV 
T6-|nr 
T6-unr 

06-d9S 
06-3nV 


(0 
Q. 


CM 
•♦-» 
O 


9> 

> 

TO 


CM 
*-> 
O 
CL 


□ 


o 
d 


in 

CO 


o 

CO 


in 

CN 


o 

CN 


q 
If) 


o 

•H 


o 
iri 


o 
d 


CM 

o 

On 
ON 


1— I 

a 


O 
I— I 

fin 


CO 

Qi 

u 

a. 


O 

CO 

73 


CO 

•i-H 


(uiiu)  MipiM 


324 


Grand 

Canyon 
^  National 
^  -^^^  Park 

 I  w 

1  ^. 


'an  L 


'Z*  Tusayai 

1       Tusayan  R.D. 

I 

/ 

I 


V 


\ 


\      ^  AZ-64 


-i 


Distribution  of  ' 
Tusavan  Flame  Flower' 


on  the  Kaibab  NF 


■     Plani  Locations 
 Forest/District  Boundary 


 Primary  Roads 


I 


N  / 
/ 
/ 

10  STATUTE  MILES  | 

^  ( 
1 


AZ-64 


\ 


\ 


US-180 


\ 


Chalender  R.D. 


\ 


Williams  R.D. 


WUIIdms 


■.^lagstaf^ 


Figure  4.  Monitoring  and  population  biology  of  Talinum  validulum  on  the  Kaibab  National  Forest,  AZ. 


325 


affect  populations  of  the  species.  These  include 
land  exchanges,  expansion  of  the  Grand  Canyon 
Railroad,  development  in  the  Tusayan  village  area, 
and  campground  and  road  construction. 

While  surveys  have  shown  that  T.  validulum  is 
far  more  abundant  than  was  believed  5  years  ago, 
it  remains  a  narrow  endemic  restricted  to  a  spe- 
cialized and  very  localized  habitat.  Its  abundance 
on  the  Kaibab  alone  is  probably  not  sufficient  to 
remove  it  from  consideration  as  a  Candidate  and 
Forest  Service  Sensitive  species;  however,  enough 
plants  are  known  that  impacts  on  a  small  portion 
of  the  range  probably  will  not  have  a  detrimental 
effect  on  the  species  as  a  whole.  Loss  of  a  few 
individuals  is  probably  insignificant;  unavoidable 
loss  of  a  few  hundred  will  not  jeopardize  the 
species;  loss  of  thousands  should  be  avoided. 
Cumulative  effects  must  be  considered  with  each 
assessment  because  of  the  numerous  potential 
threats  to  documented  sites.  Left  undisturbed, 
Talinum  validulum  is  likely  to  remain  healthy, 
vigorous,  and  naturally  self-sustaining. 

Because  the  species  is  so  habitat  specific,  broad 
extrapolations  of  potential  population  levels  over 
large  areas  based  upon  a  few  plants  in  a  small  area 
should  be  avoided.  If  extrapolations  are  necessary, 
they  should  be  made  conservatively  and  should  be 
based  upon  censuses  at  a  number  of  sample  points 
within  the  area  over  which  the  plants  are  assumed 
to  occur. 

Continued  monitoring  at  the  four  plots  would 
provide  information  on  the  species  response  to 
variations  in  seasonal  weather  and  life  history 
information  requiring  more  years  than  the  length 
of  the  current  study. 

Acknowledgments 

This  project  was  carried  out  under  purchase 
orders  issued  by  the  Kaibab  National  Forest  to 
Arthur  M.  Phillips,  III.  Keith  Menasco  was  project 
COR  and  Dr.  Barbara  Phillips,  Forest  Service  Zone 
Botanist,  supervised  the  project  on  an  ongoing 
basis.  Sandra  Dannenfeldt,  Barbara  Phillips,  Ruth 


Phillips,  Dr.  Clark  Franz,  and  William  Schuchman 
assisted  with  plot  readings.  Mimi  Murov  carried 
out  surveys  in  the  Tusayan  and  Williams  districts. 
Noel  Fletcher  shared  survey  information  collected 
by  Tusayan  Ranger  District  staff.  Barbara  Phillips 
made  available  survey  data  from  the  Chalender 
District  and  Prescott  National  Forest.  Figure  1  was 
generated  by  the  Kaibab  National  Forest  CIS 
office;  Figures  2-4  were  produced  by  Ken  Walters. 

Literature  Cited 

Baker,  M.A.,  and  T.  Wright.  1993.  A  botanical  survey  of 
the  Apache  Creek,  Juniper  Mesa,  Sycamore  Canyon, 
and  Woodchute  wilderness  areas  of  the  Prescott 
National  Forest,  Arizona.  Final  report  submitted  to 
the  Chino  Valley  Ranger  District,  Prescott  National 
Forest.  188  pp. 

Galeano-Popp,  R.  1988.  Notes  on  Talimim  validulum.  On 
file  at  Kaibab  National  Forest.  2  pp. 

Galeano-Popp,  R.  1989.  Field  trip  report.  Pine  Flat  area, 
visit  to  Talinum  validulum  sites.  On  file  at  Kaibab 
National  Forest.  4  pp. 

Greene,  E.L.  1912.  Miscellaneous  specific  types  VI — 
Talinum  validulum.  Leaflets  of  Botanical  Observation 
and  Criticism  Vol.  22:270-271  (original  description  of 
species). 

Kearney,  T.H.  and  R.H.  Peebles.  1960.  Arizona  Flora. 

2nd  ed.,  with  supplement  by  J.T.  Howell  and  E. 

McClintock.  University  of  California  Press,  Berkeley 

and  Los  Angeles. 
Phillips,  A.M.,  111.  1993.  Distribution  and  ecology  of 

Tusayan  flameflower,  Talinum  validulum,  on  the 

Kaibab  National  Forest.  Report  submitted  to  Kaibab 

National  Forest,  Williams,  AZ.  14  pp. 
Reichenbacher,  F.W.  1986.  Status  report:  Talinu,m 

validulum  E.L.  Greene.  Submitted  to  U.S.  Fish  and 

Wildlife  Service,  Albuquerque,  NM.  16  pp. 
Rutman,  S.  1992.  Handbook  of  Arizona's  Endangered, 

Threatened,  and  Candidate  Plants.  U.S.  Fish  and 

Wildlife  Service,  Phoenix,  AZ.  57  pp. 
USDA  Forest  Service.  1990.  Region  3  Sensitive  Plant  List. 

Albuquerque,  NM.  27  pp. 
U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service.  1993.  Notice  of  review  of 

plant  taxa  for  listing  as  threatened  or  endangered 

species.  Federal  Register  58(188):51188. 


326 


List  of  Contributors 


Loreen  Allphin,  Department  of  Biology,  University  of  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City,  UT. 

J.L.  Anderson,  U.S.  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Phoenix,  AZ. 

Duane  Atwood,  Intermountain  Region  USPS,  Ogden,  UT. 

Marc  A.  Baker,  Southwest  Botanical  Research,  Chino  Valley,  AZ. 

S.K.  Bazeer,  Southwest  Texas  State  University,  San  Marcos,  TX. 

Ken  S.  Berg,  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Washington,  D.C. 

Robert  L.  Bellsey,  Department  of  Molecular  and  Cellular  Biology,  University  of  Arizona,  Tucson,  AZ. 
Alan  T.  Carpenter,  The  Nature  Conservancy,  Boulder,  CO. 

Timothy  G.  Carr,  Section  of  Ecology  and  Systematics,  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  NY. 
Neil  S  Cobb,  Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
Debra  Crisp,  Peaks  Ranger  District,  Coconino  National  Porest,  Plagstaff,  AZ. 
M.  Debacon,  Rancho  Santa  Ana  Botanic  Garden,  Claremont,  CA. 

Ellen  A.  DeBruin,  New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program,  University  of  New  Mexico,  Albuquerque, 
NM. 

Laura  E.  DeWald,  School  of  Forestry,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
C.  Franz,  Coconino  National  Forest,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

Robert  J.  Frye,  Environmental  Research  Laboratory,  University  of  Arizona,  Tucson,  AZ. 
Dave  Gori,The  Nature  Conservancy,  Tucson,  AZ 

Tracy  Halward,  Center  for  Ecological  Management  of  Military  Lands,  Colorado  State  University,  Fort 
Collins,  CO. 

Kimball  T.  Harper,  Department  of  Botany  «&  Range  Science,  Brigham  Young  University,  Provo,  UT. 
Phillip  W.  Hedrick,  Department  of  Zoology,  Arizona  State  University,  Tempe,  AZ. 
Alyce  M.  Hreha,  Red  Butte  Garden  and  Arboretum,  University  of  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City,  UT. 
Lee  E.  Hughes,  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  St.  George,  UT. 

Gena  K.  Janssen,  Endangered  Species  Program,  Texas  Parks  and  Wildlife  Department,  Austin,  TX. 

Sylvia  Kelso,  Department  of  Biology,  Colorado  College,  Colorado  Springs,  CO. 

E.H.  Klein,  Apache-Sitgreaves  National  Forests,  Lakeside,  AZ. 

Thomas  E.  Kolb,  School  of  Forestry,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

Paul  Knight,  Marron  &  Associates,  Corrales,  NM. 

Juanita  A.R.  Ladyman,  New  Mexico  Natural  Heritage  Program,  University  of  New  Mexico, 
Albuquerque,  NM. 

T.K.  Lowrey,  Department  of  Biology,  University  of  New  Mexico,  Albuquerque,  NM. 
A.F.  Lutonsky,  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Albuquerque,  NM. 
David  Lutz,  Coconino  National  Forest,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

George  Maentz,  Department  of  Biology,  Colorado  College,  Colorado  Springs,  CO. 
Joyce  Maschinski,  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

Brook  G.  Milligan,  Department  of  Biology,  New  Mexico  State  University,  Las  Cruces,  NM. 
David  Mount,  Department  of  Molecular  and  Cellular  Biology.  University  of  Arizona,  Tucson,  AZ. 
Andy  M.  Ormord,  Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
Bruce  Palmer,  U.S.  Fish  &  Wildlife  Service,  Phoenix,  AZ. 

Barbara  G.  Phillips,  Coconino,  Kaibab,  and  Prescott  National  Forests,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
Arthur  M.  Phillips,  III,  Botanical  &  Environmental  consulting.  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
Jackie  M.  Poole,  Texas  Natural  Heritage  Program,  Austin,  TX. 
Ron  Popowski,  Coconino  National  Forest,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 


327 


M.  J,  Porter,  Rancho  Santa  Ana  Botanic  Garden,  Claremont,  CA. 

Paula  J.  Power,  Biology  Department,  Southwest  Texas  State  University,  San  Marcos,  TX. 
Teresa  Prendusi,  Southwest  Region  USPS,  Albuqerque,  ^JM. 

Peter  W.  Price,  Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
O.  Savolainen,  Department  of  Genetics,  University  of  Oulu,  Oulu,  Finland. 
Terri  T.  Schultz,  The  Nature  Conservancy,  Boulder,  CO. 

R.B.  Shaw,  Center  for  Ecological  Management  of  Military  Lands,  Colorado  State  University,  Fort 
Collins,  CO. 

Sedonia  D.  Sipes,  Department  of  Biology,  Utah  State  University,  Logan,  UT. 

Robert  C.  Sivinski,  N.M.  Forestry  Division,  Santa  Fe,  NM. 

John  R.  Spence,  Glen  Canyon  National  Recreation  Area,  Page,  AZ. 

Allan  E.  Strand,  Department  of  Biology,  New  Mexico  State  University,  Las  Cruces,  NM. 

Scott  Strohmeyer,  The  Arboretum  at  Flagstaff,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

Vincent  J.  Tepedino,  USDA/ARS,  Utah  State  University,  Logan,  UT. 

Renee  Van  Buren,  Department  of  Life  Science,  Utah  Valley  State  College,  Orem,  UT. 

Dwain  W.  Vincent,  Bureau  of  Land  Management,  Albuquerque,  NM. 

Peter  Warren,  The  Nature  Conservancy,  Tucson,  AZ. 

Diedre  Weage,  Arizona  Botanical  Consulting,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 

Thomas  G.  Whitham,  Department  of  Biological  Sciences,  Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff,  AZ. 
Dieter  Wilken,  Santa  Barbara  Botanic  Garden,  Santa  Barbara,  CA. 

P.S.  Williamson,  Department  of  Biology,  Southwest  Texas  State  University,  San  Marcos,  TX. 
Michael  D.  Windham,  Utah  Museum  of  Natural  History,  University  of  Utah,  Salt  Lake  City,  UT. 
Paul  G.  Wolf,  Department  of  Biology,  Utah  State  University,  Logan,  UT,  USD/ARS,  Utah  State 
University,  Logan,  UT. 


328 


1022450660 


The  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  prohibits  discrimination  in  its  programs  on  the 
basis  of  race,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  religion,  age,  disability,  political  beliefs  and  marital  or  familial 
status.  (Not  all  prohibited  bases  apply  to  all  programs.)  Persons  with  disabilities  who  require  alternative 
means  for  communication  of  program  information  (Braille,  large  print,  audiotape,  etc.)  should  contact  the 
USDA  Office  of  Communications  at  (202)  720-2791. 

To  file  a  complaint,  write  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington, 
D.C.  20250  or  caU  (202)  720-7327  (voice)  or  (202  720-1127  (TDD).  USDA  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer. 


Great 
Plains 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Forest  Service 

Rocky  Mountain  Forest  and 
Range  Experiment  Station 


The  Rocky  Mountain  Station  is  one  of  seven 
regional  experiment  stations,  plus  the  Forest 
Products  Laboratory  and  the  Washington  Office 
Staff,  that  make  up  the  Forest  Service  research 
organization. 

RESEARCH  FOCUS 

Research  programs  at  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Station  are  coordinated  with  area  universities  and 
with  other  institutions.  Many  studies  are 
conducted  on  a  cooperative  basis  to  accelerate 
solutions  to  problems  involving  range,  water, 
wildlife  and  fish  habitat,  human  and  community 
development,  timber,  recreation,  protection,  and 
multiresource  evaluation. 

RESEARCH  LOCATIONS 

Research  Work  Units  of  the  Rocky  Mountain 
Station  are  operated  in  cooperation  with 
ur^versities  in  the  following  cities: 


Albuquerque,  New  Mexico 
Flagstaff,  Arizona 
Fort  Collins,  Colorado* 
Laramie,  Wyoming 
Lincoln,  Nebraska 
Rapid  City,  South  Dakota 


'Station  Headquarters:  240  W.  Prospect  Rd.,  Fort  Collins,  CO  80526 


