Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 








SUE o Ma 1aG/ 


 aGF27 United States 
ee Natural Resource 
L Forest Service 


..  Gonservation Education 


April 1991 Task Force Final Report 


United States 
Department of 
Agriculture 


Fy 


National Agricultural Library 





¢ 


Natural Resource 
Conservation Education 


Task Force Final Report 


Recommendations on changes and 
new approaches to strengthen 
Natural Resource Education 





Natural Resource 
Conservation Education 


Natural Resource Education Task Force Final Report 


Table of Contents 


Executive Summary 54: 85 seg 9s Sa pees arma oho (eee Cea © ce a 1 

Program, Development .:.<. {seer Grider edge ons tenn ial deeds 2 et ca 5 

Program Operations 3.005 he ence ie 2 aad ee eee gees ch oes y teur gre Ree el se ie if 

Program ComponentS. .25-05.. G.c i ROah ss oct hate ce a gee leony Seeeeme terest tet ann 13 

Program Implementation... .e5 eo. foc. sv vicess a cece Contes «a: 5: ghibel ekg wee Patiala tes tone a oie ae ae 15 

Budget. Proposal.and Approved Budget™. 2 sy ..ic ic. 3 sie er cdec stn eet oe ae cles 21 
Appendices 

I: Forest Service Natural Resource Education Task Force .................. 23 

ll: Task Force Charter and Charter Committee Members ................0-- 25 

LIN: | ARSON IEIOS ooxes Co. oo Shr reenact tse gee AE eee Cte cn OE te, cpr acre oe 29 

IV: National Association of State Foresters 1990 Needs Survey ............... 31 

V: Forest Service Survey and Summary (four parts)\2 222 ..a). 2. ..0)ssene) eee 33 

Vit Key Reviewers 0.3 soir ers ta thee ets 2 os Merc penis a ce sve nara 55 

Vil Draft Reviewers”. #3 iciycrksck owt cmeae eyes ee etre: Pence ne 57 

Vill: Curricula and Proposed NRCE Program Components ................2.5. 59 

IXs; MacCleery Adult-/Education Proposal’: 7) 2s -ssmeamaraers) 2 renee ene 69 


Prepared by the Natural Resource Education Task Force, 
Mary Jo Lavin, Chair. Edited by Kathy Bowman. 


Natural Resource Conservation Education Program 


Executive Summary 


Background: Consider Strengthening Natural Resource Education Efforts. 


A suggestion from the National Association of State Foresters (NASF) to strengthen natural resource 
education efforts, encouraged the Chief of the Forest Service to form a task force "to make 
recommendations on changes and new approaches to strengthen all aspects of the Natural Resource 
Education Program." 


Recommendation: A Natural Resource Conservation Education Program. 


A Recognized Program: The Natural Resource Education Task Force recommended establishing 
a Natural Resource Conservation Education Program (NRCEP) as a service-wide focused program, 
jointly sponsored by the USDA-Forest Service and the National Association of State Foresters. The 
Chief and Staff approved the establishment of this program in February 1991. 


Moving from Awareness to Informed Action: The Latin roots of the word education imply “leading 
out." This proposed program uses structured educational experiences to “lead out" different audiences 
(preschool through adult) within the general public, moving them from awareness to informed actions 
concerning all natural resources. 


Emphasizing Conservation: In support of Gifford Pinchot’s emphasis on the “greatest good, for 
the greatest number, in the long run," this program recognizes the responsibility of the Forest Service 
and the National Association of State Foresters to promote the wise use, or conservation, of natural 
resources. 


Designed For Life-Long Learning: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program is 
designed as a life-long learning experience. Composed of structured experiences and activities, it 
will meet specific objectives for selected age groups. The initial focus will be on young adults and 
people in urban areas. 

Program Goals: The three goals of the program are to: 


- Increase awareness, knowledge and appreciation of natural resources; 


- Promote critical thinking skills that enable people to recognize the complexity of resource 
issues and to make choices within social, political, scientific, and economic realities; and 


- Foster the individual’s responsibility to conserve, preserve, and wisely use natural 
resources. 


Why Do It? 


Today’s Needs: The current social, political and economic situation demonstrates a particular 
need for an effective Natural Resource Conservation Education Program. 


An Opportunity to Understand the Values Involved: The proposed program will provide the public 
with a fair chance to obtain an understanding of natural environments and their value to society. 


A Stewardship Tool: Given today’s economic and social environment, the Natural Resource 
Conservation Education Program will be a vital part of fulfilling Forest Service and State Forester 
stewardship responsibilities in the spirit of "Caring for the Land and Serving People." 


Information for Informed Choices and Decisions: By making available factual and background 
information about natural resource conservation, the proposed program will help members of the 
public make informed personal choices and decisions about natural resources. 


What Will Happen? 


A Federal and State Partnership: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will 
build on the unique partnership that exists between the National Association of State Foresters and 
the Forest Service. People at every level of both organizations (from national to local) will participate 
in conservation education activities. These will transcend boundaries, taking place in classrooms, 
National and State Forests, and elsewhere. The program will function in the tradition of federal and 
state cooperation. 


Partner-Consultants: The Forest Service and the National Association of State Foresters will build 
additional relationships, with others, known as partner-consultants, involving both education and 
conservation organizations. These partner-consultants will take an active role at the national, State 
and local levels in assessing needs, developing and implementing innovative programs, and evaluating 
their effectiveness. 


A State Strategic Plan: State Strategic Natural Resource Conservation Education plans are a key 
component for implementing the program. In each State, the State Forester will lead the coordinated 
effort with Forest Service staff, educators, and other partners to prepare a State Strategic Plan for 
Natural Resource Conservation Education. When complete, the program will: 


- Complement existing environmental education efforts; 

- Strengthen partnerships with environmental education and resource management 
organizations; 

- Provide local coordination through the active involvement of the State and Regional 
Foresters; and 

- Utilize trained personnel. 


Whom Does It Serve? 


SIx Key Groups: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will serve both urban 
and rural populations, and focus on six age groups: 


- Preschoolers; 

- Kindergarteners through second-graders; 
- Third- through fifth-graders; 

- Sixth- through eighth-graders; 

- Young adults; and 

- Adults. 


Local, Regional, National and Cultural Concerns: The program will be multilingual, serve the 
needs of a culturally-diverse Nation, and will incorporate the needs of differently-abled audience 
members. 


The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program is intended to address local needs and 
concerns as well as cultural and regional perspectives on natural resource management. While 
emphasizing local creativity and responsiveness, the program will require all activities to support the 
program goals listed above. 


How Does It Work? 


A Focused Effort: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will provide a coordinated 
national focal point for resource conservation education efforts. The program will use partnerships 
to complement and enhance existing conservation education efforts, while recognizing and encourag- 
ing innovation. The program will use the most effective means available to: 


- Meet people where they are, in both urban and rural communities; 
- raise public awareness of natural resource issues; and 
- increase interest in natural resource management as a Career opportunity. 


National Direction: National leadership for the program will be established within the Forest Service 
in State and Private Forestry. A Program Manager will work at the national level to establish program 
policy, foster cooperation within and among agencies, provide coordination, and develop planning 
and budget proposals for the program. 


State and Local Implementation: The Regional Foresters, Station Directors, and Northeastern 
Area Director will establish the Natural Resource Conservation Education Program for their organiza- 
tions through regional and local coordinators. It will be implemented by the Forest Service at the 
field level in concert with our main partners, the State Foresters, and other partner-consultants. 


Accountability: Trained personnel will serve as the regional, State and local coordinators. Individuals 
responsible for managing, planning and presenting components of the Natural Resource Conservation 
Education program will have performance standards reflecting these responsibilities. 


Incentives: Awards for innovative and effective natural resource conservation education accomplish- 
ments will be given. In addition, candidates will be nominated to receive the awards mentioned in 
Section 8 of the Environmental Education Act. 


Delivery: The following diagram depicts the organizational flow of the Program: 


Chief President 
USDA, Forest Service National Association of State Foresters 
Deputy Chief Chairman, Education Committee 
State and Private Forestry National Association of State Foresters 





Partner- Program Manager ; Educational | 
Consultants Natural Resource Conservation Education Agencies | 


Station Directors 
State Program Managers 
Local Program Managers 






Regional Program Managers 


Local Program Managers a 


How Is It Funded? 


The Natural Resource Conservation Education effort must be adequately funded and staffed as a 
program. The Task Force recommended the program be in full operation in three years. When fully 
implemented, a major portion of total program funds will be allocated to local projects. The costs of 
this program are: 

FY 1991! FY 19922 


$ 285,000 $ 2,500,000 


1 For the remaining six months of the fiscal year. 
2 Minimum proposed budget. 


Who Served on the Task Force? 


Eight individuals served on the Natural Resource Education Task Force: six from the Forest Service 
one from the National Association of State Foresters, and one from Education Extension, University 
of Florida. These individuals included: Mary Jo Lavin (Chair), Phil Aune, Conny J. Frisch, 

Pamela S. Godsey, Beth Horn, Larry A. Kotchman, George W. Morgan, and Dr. Nancy A. Pywell. In 
addition, support to the task force was provided by Kathy Bowman, Drinda Lombardi, 

Sandra K. Mason, and Christine Walsh. 


How Do | Find Out More? 


For additional information, contact Pamela S. Godsey, Staff Assistant to the Deputy Chief for State 
and Private Forestry, at (202) 382-9043. 


Natural Resource Conservation Education 


Program Development 


The following section describes how the Natural Resource Conservation Education Program was 


developed. The final program proposal reflects the opinions and recommendations of educators 
and natural resource professionals. 


History 


Task Force Invitation: The National Association of State Foresters (NASF) suggested that the 
Forest Service strengthen its efforts in natural resource education. In response, Chief Dale Robertson 
established the Natural Resources Education Task Force (see Appendix !) in May of 1990. The 
charter for the task force was prepared by a Washington Office group (see Appendix Il) composed 
of representatives from each Deputy area, and it was approved by the Chief and Staff. The charter 
directed the Task Force “to make recommendations on changes and new approaches to strengthen 
all aspects of the Natural Resource Education Program." 


Definition: In clarifying its charge, the Task Force explored possible definitions for Natural 
Resource Education. Building upon the Latin derivation of the word "education" (from the Latin 
ex, "out", and ducere, "to lead"), the Task Force defined the mission of the Natural Resource 
Conservation Education Program as: 


"Leading out" with structured educational experiences for many public groups (preschool 
to adult); moving them from awareness to informed actions relative to all natural resources. 


Rationale 


Authorities: |The Forest Service has authority to carry out environmental education programs 
(see Appendix Ill). 


Recent mandates, initiatives, and programs (including the 1990 Resource Planning Act Program, 
the National Environmental Education Act, the Forest Service Centennial, New Perspectives, and 
Forest Stewardship Act) provided guidance in outlining the present and future role of the Forest 
Service regarding natural resource education. They enable the organization to “lead out" in a time 
of challenge and controversy. 


This new Forest Service program will respond to existing social and economic conditions with a 
program of structured educational experiences addressing basic needs. In 1991 these needs 
are: 


- To provide the public with a fair opportunity to obtain an understanding of ecosystems 
and natural resources as well as their value to society; 


- To assist in fulfilling the Forest Service and State Foresters’ mission of stewardship as 
expressed by the Forest Service motto: “Caring for the Land and Serving People;" 


- To make available factual information on natural resource conservation so the public 
can make informed personal choices and decisions about natural resources; and 


- To increase interest in natural resource careers for all segments of the population. 


Cooperation and Coordination: The unique relationship of the USDA-Forest Service and the 
National Association of State Foresters provides a model partnership for natural resource 


conservation leadership. Collectively and together, these organizations share responsibility for 
both public and private forest resource conservation and management. 


Results of a 1990 Survey for Environmental Education conducted by the National Association of 
State Foresters (see Appendix IV) and a similar internal Forest Service survey (Appendix V) indicated 
the existence of many environmental education activities. However, both surveys also strongly 
indicated a need for a focused program to coordinate and strengthen existing efforts. 


The Task Force used the results of both surveys to outline a program to build partnerships; use 
existing delivery systems; and encourage the forging of new partnerships. The group also recognized 
that a coordinated program could minimize duplication of efforts and address gaps in available 
materials or programs. 


Internal Cooperation: A service-wide program has the potential to affect many existing Forest 
Service programs and personnel. Therefore, the Task Force sought input from a wide variety of 
interested stake holders. 


Key people in Public Affairs, Recreation, and Human Resources (along with other members of the 
public information [see Appendix VI] and New Perspectives staffs) were asked to review the Task 
Force mission, and to express their opinions and concerns about the goals and objectives of the 
proposed program. Potential barriers and partnership opportunities were also identified and 
discussed at this time. 


Once a program framework was developed, a panel of Forest Supervisors representing each 
Region of the Forest Service was invited to join Task Force members to hear reviews from educational 
consultants, and to react to the proposed program. (See Appendix VI.) 


Comments from the Supervisors addressed both the broad spectrum of goals and mission and 
the practical issues of implementation and funding. It was their consensus that the program should 
focus on natural resource conservation education, as conservation (a philosophy of the greatest 
good for the greatest number in the longest run) is a uniquely-shared mission of both the Forest 
Service and the National Association of State Foresters. 


In 1990, the Chief and Staff established the Public Communications and Diversity Task Forces to 
address pressing agency concerns. Both national task forces recommended a renewed agency 
emphasis on environmental education. 


Revision of the Draft: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Task Force reviewed 
additional comments and evaluations of the proposed program from Forest Service employees, 
educators, resource professionals and resource-related organization staff. These recommendations 
were incorporated in the revised draft. (See Appendix VII.) 


Program Goals: The goals of the Natural Resource Conservation Education program are: 
- To increase awareness, knowledge, and appreciation of natural resources; 


- To promote critical thinking skills which enable people to recognize the complexity of 
resource issues and to make choices within social, political, scientific and economic 
realities; and 


- To foster the individual's responsibility to conserve, preserve, and wisely use natural 
resources. 


Natural Resource Conservation Education 


Program Operations 


The following section describes how the Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will 
operate. The program strengthens current State, federal, and private partnerships. It is designed 
to enhance and complement existing environmental education programs and activities, and to 
build new ones. 


Audience 

The program is designed to include all age groups in rural and urban populations. For this reason, 
the program will include special development efforts to serve the needs of the multilingual, culturally 
diverse, and differently-abled individuals and families of the nation. 


Program resources will be directed toward all audiences, but will concentrate first on young adults 
and urban populations as priorities. These audiences are currently under-served. 


The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program is designed as a series of lifelong learning 
experiences. The program includes specific approaches for the following age groups: 

1) preschoolers; 2) kindergarteners through second-graders; 3) third- through fifth-graders; 4) 
sixth- through eighth-graders; 5) young adults; and 6) adults. 

Guiding Principles 

The Natural Resources Conservation Education Program is national in direction but local in 
implementation. It is a recognized program with adequate staff and funds. The program will further 
the Forest Service’s long-term conservation leadership goals. 

All program delivery efforts must assist in achieving program goals. An overall guiding program 
principle is that a major portion of funds will support local projects. Accountability agreements will 
be developed and monitored at the local level to ensure program implementation. 


The following principles will also apply. We will: 


- Use factual information about natural resources as the basis for structured educational 
experiences; 


- Recognize and encourage successful, innovative conservation education efforts; 
- Complement and enhance programs through partnerships; 
- Use existing delivery systems such as schools and the media; 


- Create awareness and understanding of career opportunities in natural resource sciences 
and management; 


- Acknowledge cultural diversity and regional differences in perspectives regarding natural 
resource management; 


- Meet the people where they are; 
- Use forests and grasslands as a living classroom; and 


- Address local needs and concerns. 


Partners 


The main partnership will be between the National Association of State Foresters and the Forest 
Service. This relationship will serve as a model for the development and establishment of the 
local partnerships required to implement the essential elements of the program. 


This partnership program will strengthen rather than duplicate existing efforts. Partners will be 
involved in all facets of program development, delivery, funding, and material development. 


The following are key education and conservation organizations with whom partnership relationships 
need to be developed or reinforced. This list is not exclusive; instead, it illustrates the range of 
partnerships needed: 


- National Education Association; 

- National Forest Foundation; 

- Environmental Protection Agency, Extension Service, and other federal agencies; 
- National Arbor Day Foundation; 

- American Forestry Association; 

- Nature Conservancy 

- National Wildlife Federation 

- Educational programs such as Project Learning Tree, Project Wild, and Head Start; 
- State departments of education and other state and local agencies; 

- Organized youth groups, such as Scouts and 4-H; and 

- Volunteers, such as retirees. 


Organizational Structure 


The success of the Natural Resource Conservation Education Program (NRCEP) depends on a 
major partnership between the Forest Service and the State Foresters. The organizations share a 
common objective of developing and establishing an effective natural resource conservation 
education program. 


National program leadership for the Forest Service will be established within State and Private 
Forestry. State and Private Forestry will ensure that coordination occurs with all Deputy areas, 
and that all employees, regardless of functional responsibility, are involved. Specific roles and 
responsibilities for national, regional, and local levels of the Forest Service and State Foresters 
follow. 


National Roles and Responsibilities: The role at the national level is to establish program policy, 
foster cooperation within and among the agencies, provide coordination, and develop planning 
and budget proposals for the Program. 


- Program responsibilities will be staffed by the Natural Resource Conservation Program 
Manager under the direction of the Deputy Chief for State and Private Forestry. 


- The Program Manager will identify existing programs and materials both within and 
outside of the Forest Service. 


- In consultation with the National Association of State Foresters (NASF), the Program 
Manager will coordinate with other federal agencies and interest groups at the national 
level. 


- The Program Manager and the National Association of State Foresters will encourage 
new and innovative programs, seek out partnerships and cost sharing arrangements, 
assist in the identification of research needs, and reward outstanding efforts of national 
significance. 


- The Program Manager will maintain program quality control, accountability, establish 
coordinated program reviews, and maintain a clearinghouse of natural resource 
conservation education programs and materials. 


- The Program Manager will work with partner-consultants to assess needs, establish 
standards and guide the development and implementation of innovative programs. 


Regional, Area, and State Roles and Responsibility: | The roles and responsibilities at the 
Regional and State level are similar to the national roles. The Regional Foresters, Station Directors, 
the Northeast Area Director, and the State Foresters will establish the Natural Resource Conservation 
Education Program for their respective organizations. 


- Responsibilities will be assigned as specific duties to designated staff. Shared services 
will Support the program and minimize the duplication of efforts for Regions and Stations. 


- Regional Foresters, Station Directors, and State Foresters will develop program priorities 
and award competitive grants. 


- The State Forester, in cooperation with the Regional Forester, educators, and other 
partners, will develop interdisciplinary strategic plans for Natural Resource Conservation 
Education Program activities in his or her State. 


- Regional and State Program accountability will be established and implemented. 


Local Roles and Responsibilities: The program will be implemented at National Forests, 
Research Laboratories, and local State Forestry offices. Program implementation will require effective 
coordination with local school boards, educators, state directors of Project Learning Tree, PTA 
members, Scout leaders, 4-H programs, extension specialists, and the many other individuals 
and groups interested in natural resource conservation education. 


- Inthe Forest Service, the program will generally be accomplished at the National Forest, 
Research Laboratory, and Ranger District levels as part of collateral duties recognized, 
funded, and maintained as part of position descriptions and performance standards. 


- Within both State and Forest Service organizations, the local office will develop proposals 
for cost sharing, encourage and reward successful programs, facilitate partnerships, 
and maintain accountability for local program activities. 


Human Resources: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will be directed at 
the national level by a Program Manager, and will require full-time program coordinators and 
support staff at the national and regional office levels. The State Foresters will be required to 
develop a coordination capability as needed to implement the program. 


- The national Program Manager and Regional program coordinators will require 
knowledge, skills and abilities in communication, education and natural sciences. They 
will also require skills necessary for innovation, program management, and maintenance 
of quality control. These positions will provide the opportunity to bring new people with 
fresh ideas into the organization. 


- The Task Force recommends that Forest Service representatives serve on the Environ- 
mental Education Task Force established by the National Environmental Education Act 
(Appendix XII), and also on the Federal Interagency Environmental Education Coordinat- 
ing Committee. 


- Toensure that the Natural Resources Conservation Education Program reflects a balance 
of environmental education perspectives, the Program Manager will actively involve 
partner-consultants in a two-way relationship. Communication will be on-going. Partner- 
consultants will provide a link to other programs and potential partners. 


- The partner-consultants will assist the Program Manager to assess needs, establish 
standards, and guide the development and implementation of an innovative program 
consistent with the program goals. 


Educational Opportunities 


Potential Educational Opportunities, Experiences, and Techniques: _ Different instructional 
opportunities, experiences and techniques are most effective at different levels, where they can 
reflect specific audiences and resources. Following is a partial listing of educational opportunities, 
experiences, and techniques available at the national, regional, and local levels. 


Some of these tools may be used by other programs. The Natural Resource Conservation Education 
program would use them as part of structured educational experiences. 


National: At the national level, we will seek opportunities to reach national audiences. These 
efforts will build on experiences and techniques that are national in scope. Examples include: 


- TV programs, such as Cosby, Mr. Rogers, Discovery, or Sesame Street; 
- Disneyland/Disney World; 

- Existing program inventory and access (NRCE Clearinghouse); 
- Interagency internships; 

- Multimedia programs; 

- Scholarships; 

- Conferences; 

- Financial assistance; 

- Resource materials for educators; 

- Summer jobs for teachers; 

- Cable TV (see example in Appendix VIII); and 

- Family camps. 


10 


Regional: Regional programs are focused to regional audiences and utilize regional resources. 


- Summer jobs for teachers; 

- Elderhostels; 

- Interagency internships; 

- Multimedia programs; 

- Displays for State and county fairs, and shopping malls; 
- Eco-Vans; 

- Scholarships; 

- Conferences; 

- Financial assistance; 

- Teacher kits; 

- In-service, preservice training; 

- Ecosystem boxes; 

- Resource materials for educators; 

- Cooperative education positions; 

- Family camps; 

- Classroom credit for Natural Resource Conservation Education 
- Program activities; and 

- Urban tree planting opportunities. 


Local: Local programs will be tailored to local audiences and build on local initiative. Opportunities 
include: 


- Speakers bureaus; 

- Summer jobs for teachers; 

- Interpretive centers; 

- Elderhostels; 

- Interagency internships; 

- Urban Ranger Districts (work experience); 

- Family camps; 

- Day camps; 

- Displays for State and county fairs and shopping malls; 

- Human Resource programs (e.g., YCC, Job Corps, and Volunteers); 
- State and Forest Service residential facilities to deliver programs; 
- Forest Host Program; 

- Scholarships; 

- Teacher kits; 

- In-service, preservice training; 

- Ecosystem boxes; 

- Resource materials for educators; 

- Urban tree-planting opportunities; 

- Classroom visits; and 

- Co-operative education experiences. 


Program Evaluation: Measuring Both Process and Outcome 
Program evaluation will be meaningful and measurable in program delivery and content. It will 
consistently provide feedback through quality accomplishments and personal satisfaction. 


Teacher/administrators will have the flexibility to make changes, and will document why the changes 
were necessary. 


11 


Quantifiable Measurements: In measuring the outcome, the program: 
- Requires narratives, photos, and other documentation; 


- Seeks recommendations through a feedback critique process that includes comments 
from teachers, administrators, parents and students for suggested changes in delivering 
the program; 


- Reevaluates successes and failures in meeting program goals and objectives each 
year; and 


- Uses the existing Human Resource Programs Accomplishment Report as a model for 
reporting accomplishments. 


Program Components: The recommended educational program is designed as a life-long learning 
experience. It begins with specific educational objectives for selected age or grade levels (see 
the curricula charts that follow and Appendix X). Objectives and messages in each curriculum are 
tied to program goals and guiding principles. As age and grade levels increase, the material in 
each curriculum deals with increasingly complex concepts. 


12 


‘juowoeBeuew a0Jnosel jeinyeu 

jo Aioysiy eu, pue sedinosa jesnyeu UO UONEUUJOJU!I BuNsasequ! Jo yYeom e Ss} o10y] 

“sa0JNOsal jeINyeU S,UOHVeU INO Jo asn dI\Gnd puB AyiqelA D1WOUODA ‘UOHOa}oNd 

JeyUSWIUOIIAUS 10} SPUBLOp ajdijjnW aU} soURjeq 0} diyssouped UI J94}950} 410M SNL BAA 

“MOJOWO} U! BAI] UdIP|!Y4o 

INO POM au} syea19 |]1M Aepo} UOlJeU e Se aye OM SUOISIOOp BouNOsal JeINyeU oy] 

‘uolyea199a1 JOOPjNo Ayyenb 40} sanjunyoddo Bulpnjou! spyoueq ajdijni spiAoid sjsos04 
isaBessoyy 


“suoISIO9p 
SONOS yeINYEU POWOjU! oyeW PUB ‘sUOISN}OUOD MeJP ‘sUOIUIdO LWJO} ‘SpUdJ} PUB SUOIPUOS 
@01NOSA1 PUBYSIAPUN ‘UO!PEUUOJU! 399]|09 ‘swa;qoud AjUap! 0} syNpe ajqeue Oy :eANHoE[QO 
seoualiedxy eoinosey jeunyeNN :snoo4 


‘g0104yo Buiyoxe ue si 19079 9dJNOSA JeINyeU 
‘soouenbesuo0d 
jeloos pue ‘olWOU0De ‘JeJUSsWUOJIAUS Ul! S}jnse1 UOISIDep adINOSe1 jeINyeu YoRZ 
*suoISsIOap 901NOSes Huljoiju09 U! yINSe1 Selydosojlyd aosnosel jeuNyeU SSJ9AIG 
‘POM pue of] Aw ul aoUala}}Ip eB aye UD SUOIJOIAUOD jeUOSsied AW UO paseq SUOIOY 
"S1O0P-JO-]NO OY} UI WO}LUOD pue adved pul UD | 

:soBessoy 


‘oluje yuswaBeuewW 
eoinosal yeunyeu jeuosiad e eonoeid pue dojanop 0} synpe BunoA somodwa of :annoefqo 
juowaBeuey coinosey jeunyeNy :snoo4 


synpy Buno, 


‘syjo-eped}, auinbas Aew 
YOIYM SUOISIO9p aye 0} SN a1INnbal sadsNOSeI jeINyeuU JNO WOJ JUBM aM SyONpold OY 
‘suajsAsooa sulejsns juswabeuewW 9oJnOsed |eiNyeU POOS 
“S20N0SEd 9|GeMaUAIUOU puke a|qQeMauA! BulUIe}U09 ‘asJeAip pue onbiun ase siua}sAso0R 
‘suuajsAsooe jeqo|6 pue jeuolBe ‘jeoo| jo wed ase suewin} 
‘sooJNOse jeinyeu U! SigeJeO PUB SELaACOSIP Hulyoxe ase O10) 

:soBessoy| 


“SLUa}SASODS PUL SAIIUNLULUOD JO Sal}IxejdWos ay} aojdxe Of :aanoalqo 
swaysAsooq = :snd0-4 


siopeiy-uyiybig yBnosyL -yXIS 


(‘x| xipueddy ‘yesodoid Aioajqoepw 9es) 


‘swiaysAs yeinyeu uo s}oeduu! jeNpIAIpU! INO soNped pue seoinosed jeunyeuU 
SAJ@SUOD YOIYM SUOISIOOp OYE O} LBS] ISNW OM ‘payILUl] ase SadINOSe jeINJeU esnedeg 
"poyejoiajul ase WaysAsode ino Jo sued {j\¥ 
“SOMUNWLUODS JBINJEU UUM UONNEdWOS PUB yoI|JUOD SI QIBYL 
“AuUaayIp S8d1NOSeJ JOYJO PU PU] ESN puke aNjeA SainyNo JUSIayIp jo ajdoog 
“Aejd pue 410m ‘eal SueWNY YoIyM Ul SentuNULUOD AUeW ase 9184} POM oy} puNnoly 
‘unj eq UBD SN puNoOe saiUNWWOD 94} BuLojdxg 
isoBessoy 


‘uonouny Aau} 
MOY UJea| pue ‘Joue|d SI4} UO SaiUNWWOD jesNyeU jo AJaeA ay} JOAOCDSIP 0} :aatjoelgo 
solUuNWWOD jeinjeN :sno04 


siapely-Yyl4 YBnosu) -psiyL 


‘JUSWUOIIAUA JeINyeU aU} YOoe suo INE 
‘JUsWUOIIAUD INO Ul SHuIU} 40} Buled 10) ajqisuodsal ale OA, 
‘wayshsooa ue jo ed ale sjualUOJIAUa jeuosied INE 
“SOAjOSWAaU} 
Meual PU SAI] O} JepsO Ul Bdeds pue ‘IayoYs ‘ayeM ‘pooy pseu sHhuiyy Buiay |W 
"suuaysAsooe WoO} yorum sBhuiyy Bulalj-uou pue Bully jo apew si pom jeunyeu oy 
“UN} OQ UD PJIOM jeINyeU au} Bulojdxg 

isoBessoyy 


‘194}050} y10M--9|doaed pue--sjewiue pue 
sjuejd Moy JOAOSIP puB JUSLUUOJIAUA JeuNyeU B JO sJUaUOdWIOD 94} alojdxa 0} :eanoalqg 


PHOAA JeINyeEN euy s:snoo4 


SJapesy-Ppuodvas YyBnosy| siauyeHispury 


"aj0A0 op) © oAeY pue sBulyy Bulal ase ‘ajdoed ay! ‘saady 
‘yuouUOJIAUS Ayyeay & 10} ajqisuodsel we | 
‘yuewUolAUa Ayyeay e@ yo ped ole sooly 
‘seoimies Auew apiAoid pus sjonpoid jnjasn Auew apiaoid seedy 
“uN} eq UD apisjno Buleg 

:soBessoy 


‘POM jeinyeu ej U! SeEJ} JO BjO1 BY} BoNpoNUI OY :aAndelqo 
sedi] :snoo4 


SJaJ}OOYOSeld 





(IIA xipueddy) ejnoiing pesodoid 
s}uauodwoyg weibolg 


— en etd £7 8 


v 


ee « 





a aon Tare, - © 


Natural Resource Conservation Education 


Program Implementation 


This section describes how the Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will be put 
into effect. The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program contains structured educational 
experiences relevant to all natural resources. It is designed to move people from awareness to 
informed actions. 


Internal Distinctions 


The education program will be distinct from--though related to--the interpretation element of the 
Recreation program, and the public communication portion of the Public Affairs program. Both 
areas provide useful and relevant information about natural resource conservation, but neither 
provides the structured series of age-focused experiences that characterizes education. 


While other federal and state agencies have environmental education mandates, the Forest Service 
and the National Association of State Foresters together are in a special position to bring together 
the best information about specific natural resource problems and issues. Coordination and 
cooperation between the three areas (interpretation, communication, and education) will comple- 
ment and strengthen each program. 


Internal Cooperation 


National Level: The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program Manager will consult 
with the National Association of State Foresters, internal Forest Service program staff, and 
partner-consultants to develop a comprehensive inventory of existing natural resource conservation 
education programs at the national level. The Program Manager will work with Public Affairs and 
Interpretive Services staff to assess the appropriate means to communicate Natural Resource 
Conservation Education messages. 


Successful projects (such as Urban Treehouse) will be shared through a national program newsletter 
and a symposium to to be held the second year. All programs meeting Natural Resource 
Conservation Education goals will be incorporated into a national Natural Resource Conservation 
Education Program Clearinghouse, which will be available on a computer (CD-ROM) disk. 


The Program Manager will also conduct, in consultation with others, an assessment to determine 


national development projects which are needed. The Task Force recommends that initial projects 
focus on young adults and urban audiences. 


15 


Regional Level: Natural Resource Conservation Education Program coordinators will work in 
consultation with State Foresters to: 


- Determine Natural Resource Conservation Education Program priorities at the regional 
and State levels; 


- Develop budget proposal; 
- Develop criteria for cost sharing; and 
- Solicit proposals for financial assistance. 


Program activities will focus on regional issues and differences, and incorporate projects identified 
in individual State strategic plans for Natural Resource Conservation Education Program activities. 


Coordinators will work cooperatively with communication and interpretation staff people to develop 
Natural Resource Conservation Education material. 


External Cooperation 


Forest Service representatives will serve on key task forces and committees (see the Human 
Resource section under Program Operations) to support existing natural resource education 
efforts, and to develop comprehensive programs with a national focus, consistent with Natural 
Resource Conservation Education Program goals. 


The Forest Service and the National Association of State Foresters will continue support for 
cosponsored programs such as Project Learning Tree and Woodsy Owl. They will also identify 
existing and future program needs. 


The Forest Service and the National Association of State Foresters will look for opportunities to 
cooperate with agencies (such as the Extension Service, Soil Conservation Service, Environmental 
Protection Agency, and National Park Service) that have existing programs, or which are considering 
development of new programs. 


These projects will be consistent with Natural Resource Conservation Education Program goals 
and guiding principles. Each curriculum will be guided by messages established for specific age 
groups. 


The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program encourages new partnerships such as 
that with Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCl-Cable TV) for a Centennial television series. This series 
will include the history of natural resource management in response to the changing needs of 
society throughout the last century. (Note: See Appendix IX for an adult education proposal that 
also addresses natural resource conservation history). 


In addition, successful programs such as Urban Treehouse will serve as models for program 
partnerships with a national focus. 


Internal Staff Development 


As most natural resource managers and scientists in the Forest Service and the National Association 
of State Foresters are trained primarily in technical fields (forestry, engineering, etc.), Natural 
Resource Conservation Education program providers will need training in educational techniques 
to translate technical information into educational concepts. 


16 


Training or expertise provided will include learning theories and styles, education techniques for 
teaching both adults and children, school delivery systems, and information about how best to 
use multimedia and technology. Feedback will be provided for program providers. Training programs 
may also be developed to enhance the educational skills of program providers. 


Marketing: 


Internal (Forest Service): The Natural Resource Conservation Education Program will be 
presented at the next Regional Foresters and Station Directors meeting. The Executive Committee 
and the chairs of the Standing Committees of the National Association of State Foresters will be 
included in this meeting. 


A video with the Chief and the president of the NASF will be produced for internal marketing. It 
will show their support of the Natural Resource Conservation Education Program, and will also 
clearly communicate roles and responsibilities. 


The video will be used by each Regional and State Forester to "take the message home" to the 
Regions and States. It will be distributed to Regional staff and Forest Supervisors. In addition, the 
message will further be carried to the field-level organizations by management teams. 


A brochure will be developed to promote the program’s goals and guiding principles. These will 
be distributed to all levels of the Forest Service and the State Forester organizations. 


Members of the Natural Resource Education Task Force will be available to assist in program 
presentations to Region, Area, and Station management team meetings. 


External: The Washington Office (WO) of the Forest Service will brief all other federal agencies 
and national organizations dealing with environmental education about the Natural Resource 
Conservation Education Program. A special presentation will be made at the annual meeting of 
the National Association of State Foresters. The Washington Office will also seek to establish or 
enhance partnership relationships. 


Regional and State Foresters will brief state and local entities which deal with environmental 
education. 


The Washington Office will also distribute the internal promotional brochure (modified if necessary) 
outside the program. 
Accountability and Incentives 


Accountability and incentives are essential for successful program implementation. In addition, a 
simple reporting system will be developed to track goal accomplishment and funding use. 


(The following text contains many references to the Forest Service and the National Association 
of State Foresters. For simplification, the term “main partners" in the next paragraphs will 
represent both agencies.) 

The following actions will help assure program implementation: 


- Adding Natural Resource Conservation Education as part of an appropriate performance 
standard for Regional Foresters, and Area and Station Directors; 


17 


- Having both main partners jointly develop accountability standards for the program; 


- Recognizing Natural Resource Conservation Education as part of performance standards 
for individuals assigned collateral education duties; 


- Having both main partners take a "cooperative lead" in awarding the "Gifford Pinchot" 
Environmental Education award mentioned in Section 8 of the Environmental Education 
Act; 

- Having both main partners identify appropriate candidates for awards mentioned in 
Section 8 of the Environmental Education Act, with each assuring that adequate support 
documentation is included in nomination material; and 

- Having both main partners cooperatively establish an internal award system for Natural 
Resource Conservation Education. This will include awards from the Chief of the Forest 
Service, and from the Regional and State Foresters (individually). 


First Implementation Steps 


Natural Resource Conservation Education Program participants and staff will learn from and model 
upon the best communicators in the country. 


These administrative and program actions will take place in Fiscal Year ’91. 


Administrative Actions: We will: 


- Brief Regional Forester and Directors, key congressional representatives, other federal 
agencies, and potential partners; 


- Hire a program manager; 

- Initiate working relationships with partner-consultants; 

- Establish partnerships with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Extension and 
other federal agencies. Forest Service representatives will also serve on the Environmental 
Education Task Force established by the National Environmental Education Act; 

- Establish a relationship with the National Forest Foundation (NFF) to determine how 
the Foundation’s funding might support Natural Resource Conservation Education 
programs; 


- Assess additional fiscal authorities; and 


- Tie into existing natural resource education networks. 


Program Actions: We will: 
- Reach out to the educational community; 


- Develop the video and brochure used to market the program. The promotional brochure 
will include the goals and guiding principles, and will be distributed to a wide audience 
(see Marketing); 


18 


Carry out commitments to Scouting organizations; 


Develop an inventory of existing Natural Resource Conservation Education programs 
and curricula for the national clearinghouse; 


Highlight successful programs in a national newsletter; 


Plan a national Natural Resource Conservation Education symposium showcasing 
successful programs to be held in 1992; and 


Develop a TCl-Cable TV/Natural Resource Conservation Education program for the 
Centennial Celebration, including a history of natural resource management. 


We 





Natural Resource Conservation Education 


Budget Proposal and Approved Budget 


Budget Proposal Approved Budget 
Thousand Dollars Thousand Dollars 
Fiscal Year 1991 (Six Months) 
Initial staffing $125 $125 
Promotional video and brochure 25 25 
Development of Service-wide projects 
(TCI, Girl & Boy Scouts) 50 50 
First-year marketing and cooperation 20 20 
Recognition of current efforts by FS, 
State Forestry, & Cooperators 65 65 
$285 $285 
Fiscal Year 1992 
Forest Service $1,500 $250 
State Foresters 2,500 250 
Development of Service-wide projects 
(TCI, Girl & Boy Scouts) 500 500 
Challenge/cost-share for internal 
(FS) NRCE projects 2,500 500 
Challenge/cost-share for internal 
(State Forestry) NRCE projects 2,500 500 
Challenge/cost-share for projects by 
other partners 1,000 500 
$10,500 $2,500 
Fiscal Year 1993 and Beyond 
Forest Service $1,500 
State Foresters 2,500 
Development of Service-wide projects 
(TCI, Girl & Boy Scouts) 1,000 
Challenge/cost-share for internal 
(FS) NRCE projects 3,000 
Challenge/cost-share for internal 
(State Forestry) NRCE projects 3,000 
Challenge/cost-share for projects 
by other partners 5,000 
$16,000 


*Region, Area and Station may supplement NRCEP allocation with other funds. 


Note: For a discussion of how grant money will be allocated on a State-by-State basis, see the Roles and Responsibilities 
discussion. See the discussion of Accountability and Incentives for an overview of how recognition efforts will be handled. 


21 


aa" 


~~ eee SD evecien 65 


vance’! So 
- + 


vi eg " oy 


<1 bas lecces 


tate 







. 
e 
_ 





—————— 


Appendix I. 


Natural Resource Education Task Force 


Mary Jo Lavin (Task Force Chair), Deputy Regional Forester, 
Pacific Northwest Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


Phil Aune, Research Program Manager, 
Pacific Southwest Station, USDA-Forest Service. 


Conny J. Frisch, Waldport District Ranger, 
Siuslaw National Forest, Pacific Northwest Region, 


USDA-Forest Service. 


Pamela S. Godsey, Staff Assistant to the Deputy Chief for 
State and Private Forestry, USDA-Forest Service. 


Beth Horn, Director, Public Affairs, 
Northern Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


Larry A. Kotchman, Chair, National Association of 
State Foresters Conservation Education Committee; 
State Forester, North Dakota. 


George W. Morgan, Director, Ouachita Civilian Conservation Center, 
Ouachita National Forest, Southern Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


Dr. Nancy A. Pywell, Associate Professor/Natural Resources 
Education Extension, University of Florida. 


Facilitation: 


Logistics: 


Editing: 


Christine Walsh, Issue Mediation Specialist, 
Pacific Northwest Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


Drinda Lombardi, Human Resource Programs Specialist, 
Pacific Northwest Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


Sandra K. Mason, Administrative Assistant, 
North Bend Ranger District, Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, 
Pacific Northwest Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


Kathy Bowman, Writer-editor; 


Media/Design Group, Public Affairs Office 
Pacific Northwest Region, USDA-Forest Service. 


23 








Appendix II. 
Task Force Charter and Charter Committee Members 


Natural Resource Education Charter 


Introduction/Background 


The time is ripe for the Forest Service to revitalize a program of natural resource education, a 
program with national initiatives and highlighted local activities. We envision: 


- A program by which many of this Nation’s students will develop skill,in gathering, 
understanding, and evaluating information by using the forest ecosystems as the 
foundation for understanding the interdependence of the environment and people’s 
daily lifes. 

- A program that addresses the needs for adult natural resource education. 

- Aprogram that recognizes the opportunity to inform an ever growing urban constituency 
limited in first-hand experience with America’s natural resources. 

- Anatural resource education program built on the foundation of the Chief’s six-point 
working agenda. 


Historical Perspective 


Conservation education associated with the Forest Service began in the 1930’s with the CCC, 
when basic principles of our environment were learned through work projects such as soil 
stabilization, tree planting, and thinning. It was in this period that a Forest Service employee became 
known as the “Ambassadress of trees" as she mobilized women and children to learn about the 
forest environment and to plant trees to ensure forests forever. 


In the 1960’s, Forest Service employees started going into classrooms and explaining how trees 
grow and discussing other conservation issues. 


In 1968, Edward P. Cliff, then Chief of the agency, directed that more emphasis be placed on 
environmental education. He was convinced that protection and wise use of the Nation’s natural 
resources would only be possible if the Forest Service had the understanding and support of the 
public. Environmental training teams were sent out over the country to teach thousands of educators, 
Garden Club members, Forest Service personnel and others about the principles of environmental 
education and how to teach it. The early 1970’s were the heyday for environmental education in 
the Forest Service. 


Currently, all regions of the country have some level of an environmental education program 
sponsored by the Forest Service. These are largely the result of individual initiatives carried on by 
a few dedicated employees. The vehicles used include workshops, speakers bureaus, conservation 
camps, conferences and interpretive services programs. The Forest Service leverages the limited 
funds spent for environmental education by building strong cooperative agreements and 
partnerships with States, universities and conservation organizations. One of our stronger 
cooperative efforts is our involvement as an associate sponsor of Project Learning Tree. 


Throughout its history the Forest Service has undertaken a number of education programs to 


promote understanding and knowledge in many areas. These programs have been used, for 
example, to emphasize research results and activities, cooperative forest fire prevention, visitor 


25 


information and interpretive services, environmental pollution and litter, youth conservation work 
and environmental awareness, and environmental education. 


Except for the environmental education program, which is broad in scope and focuses on resources 
in general, most of the efforts have been used to achieve specific purposes and objectives. We 
have lacked a focused, pro-active comprehensive Natural Resource Education program for a 
number of years. 


Goals and Objectives 


We propose to educate people on: 
- Forest and Rangeland Ecology 
- The interrelationship of natural environment and people. 
- The enjoyment, conservation and wise use of natural resources. 


Scope and Approach 


The Chief of the Forest Service will establish a team to make recommendations on changes and 
new approaches to strengthen all aspects of the Natural Resource Education program. In addition, 
the Chief will establish a board of advisors as resources to the team. 


The team will recognize the historical evolution of the environmental education program and consider 
todays changing social, political, demographic and economical values in the development of a 
new Natural Resource Education program. 


The team will consist of members representing a range of interests and professions and will be 
selected based upon knowledge of conservation, forest ecology, education and experience with 
Forest Service resource management. The Team will be charged to: 


- Review current mandates, Congressional direction, USDA and Forest Service mission 
and/or programs. 


- Identify specific laws, executive orders, policies and other directives that establish 
program constraints. 


- Review current Natural Resource Education programs now being administered by 
other agencies, schools, and industry. Develop a Natural Resource Education program 
that will strengthen but not duplicate current programs in educating students and adults 
on forest ecology and the interrelationships of people’s actions and the forest 
environment. 


- The benefits and disadvantages of developing this program in cooperation with USDA 
agencies such as the Soil Conservation Service and Extension Service and other agencies 
and organizations will be evaluated. 


- The use of interpretative programs, partnerships, alliances, Earth Day and other 
approaches to educating city, urban, and rural students and adults on forest ecology 


and the interrelationships of people’s actions will be considered in the teams program 
proposal. 


- Develop organizational recommendations, funding sources/needs and marketing 
techniques to implement the teams proposal and alternatives for funding levels. 


26 


- Develop as part of the Natural Resource Education program a significant outreach to 
all segments of American society to raise environmental sensitivity of all elements and 
to ultimately help in our efforts of attracting a diverse workforce. 


- Build on or support "New Perspectives in Forestry" in providing increased awareness 
and understanding of forest ecosystems by Forest Service personnel. 


- Identify a mechanism to monitor success of the program and provide feedback to 
management. Included in this will be the criteria that identifies what is a successful 
forest resource education program. 

- The program proposal along with major elements and alternatives will be presented to 
the Chief and Staff in December 1990. 


Charter Committee Members 


Pam Godsey, State and Private Forestry (Chair) 
George Castilio, Administration 

Don Foth, National Forest System 

Mikel Shilling, Programs and Legislation 


Bill Sommers, Research 


fae 





Appendix Ill. 


Authorities 


Department of Agriculture Organic Act of 1962 (7 U.S.C. 2201). This act authorizes 
establishment of a Department of Agriculture and directs that its general design and 
duties be to "diffuse among the people of the United States useful information on 
subjects connected with agriculture in the most general and comprehensive sense 
of the word". 


Solicitor’s Opinion 4088 (1942). In this opinion, the Solicitor ruled that information 
may be disseminated through exhibits, motion pictures, radio broadcasts, or other 
media which are found to be administratively expedient, provided such information 
relates to the authorized activities of the Department, and it is administratively 
determined that such dissemination of information is reasonably requisite or materially 
advantageous in the promotion and development of such Department activities. 


Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 
1600 (note)). This act authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to implement a 
comprehensive program of forest and rangeland renewable resources research and 
dissemination of the findings of such research. 


Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101, July 1, 1978). This 
act authorizes cooperative efforts in respect to non-Federal forest lands and provides 
for coordination with State Foresters in management and planning assistance, and 
for transfer of technological knowledge based on forest research findings. 


Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600). This act establishes broad land 
management guidelines, and directs the Secretary to provide for public involvement 
in the planning process. 


Environmental Education Act of 1990. This act authorizes the Environmenta! 
Protection Agency to develop and support a program of environmental education. In 
consultation with others, EPA is instructed to develop curriculum, design information, 
hold conferences, manage a Federal grant assistance program and environmental 
internship program. In the act, the Forest Service is recognized for its skill and 
experience in natural resource education. The act directs that a representative from 
the Department of Agriculture serve on the Environmental Education Task Force. 


Forest Stewardship Act of 1990 or Farm Bill. Under the Urban and Community 
Forestry Assistance Program, the Secretary, in cooperation with State Foresters, 
State Extension Directors and interested members of the public, including nonprofit 
private organizations, shall implement a program of education for urban and community 
forest resources. As part of the Forest Stewardship Program, the Secretary is authorized 
to provide education and related assistance to State forests, including financial 
assistance to other State and local natural resource entities, and land grant universities 
to deliver information to nonindustrial private landowners. 


as) 











GLVO etait hg ) RRQ 
nivcsn! @ & tienen a ca 

Y Orvertes eae v? ort 6? andy ate 
Bi . 6 1 Od! e°' 4G aaa 

ae a ey: 


; a) @0Uile®> eo ni iited 7 
7 t. ore, aa) req qs a 
tig 7 






" 


G - _ - a a ‘ 
7 Raz a a ¢ avers ie <= i) ert 4) 
ey.) - Y (eee) tht ef lea aA rere 
OY p8S55 Seay et 2 epg mash iene lA, 
(s Be Woh Geter 655 14g eean e 
~ ican ieee ae 
“ 








Appendix IV. 


National Association of State Foresters 
1990 Needs Survey for Environmental Education Materials 


The purpose of this survey was to assess the need for environmental educational materials 


within state forestry organizations and those agencies with which we are closely associated. A 
total of 145 responses were collected. 


1: 


Are there enough environmental education material resources available to your agency 
or educators on forest resources? 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Yes 27% 31% 38% 
No 73% 69% 62% 


Conservation education material should be targeted to: K-4, Middle School, Junior 
High, or High School. 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
K-4 29% 31% 32% 
Middle School 39% 39% 37% 
Junior High 21% 14% 19% 
High School 11% 16% 12% 


Does your agency produce any environmental educational materials other than fire 
prevention and technical bulletins? 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Yes 62% 54% 59% 
No 38% 46% 41% 


If you had to choose one format for conservation education, which would you prefer? 


a. printed material: text, single sheets, workbooks 

b. audio-visual material: slide programs, video tapes, movies 

c. teachers kits: combinations of audio-visual, posters, and printed 
material 

d. computer games 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Printed 11% 10% 21% 
Audio-visual 14% 7% 3% 
Teachers kits 72% 73% 76% 
Computer Games 3% 10% 0% 


31 


10. 


Does your agency, school, or organization use Project Learning Tree Workshops? 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Yes 71% 66% 81% 
No 29% 34% 19% 


How many Project Learning Tree workshops was your agency, school, or organization 
involved in last year? 0, 6-10, 11-20, or 21-40+ 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
0 46% 61% 34% 
6-10 31% 21% 25% 
11-20 9% 14% 7% 
21-40+ 12% 4% 34% 


Does your agency, school, or organization use National Arbor Day teaching materials? 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Yes 56% 34% 66% 
No 44% 66% 34% 


Do you see a need for the National Association of State Foresters to produce 
environmental education material for purchase and use by state forestry agencies, 
schools, or organizations? 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Yes 77% 59% 78% 
No 23% 41% 22% 


Considering your personal experience with budgets, purchasing, and use of materials, 
list items you would most likely purchase. You may use question 4 as a reference 
guide remembering Items a through d are Increasingly expensive. 


All Reponses Educators Natural Resource Agencies 
Printed 41% 76% 35% 
Audio-visual 29% 6% 37% 
Teachers kits 27% 18% 24% 
Computer games 3% 0% 4% 


Please use this opportunity to elaborate on any question, clarify your answers or identify 
additional issues for conservation education. 


A total of 52% of the respondents chose to make additional comments. There was quite a 
variety in the number of individual responses and comments. Some of the comments were 
spillovers from questions 8 and 9, and Clarification on question 4. In skimming the material 
looking for key words and phrases, 17% of the comments included a specific request for 
posters and 33% made reference to the Project Learning Tree/Project Wild programs and 
to Nature Scope. 


In question 2, there was a strong feeling of clarification that all age groups should be targeted 
for environmental education material. A number of people implored us not to forget adults. 
There were also concerns in the comments about the quality of the material. There were 
suggestions for lesson plans on recycling and on stewardship. In additon, there were several 
complimentary comments from teachers concerning the various natural resource agency 
personnel with whom they had worked. 


32 


Appendix V. 


Forest Service Survey and Summary 


Natural Resource Education Survey 
Report 


August 1990 
Washington, D.C. 


prepared by 


Craig Austin, LMP, Gifford Pinchot National Forest 
Thom Corcoran, Public Affairs, Pacific Northwest Region 
Anne Heisler, NRE Coordinator, Pacific Northwest Region 

for the 
National Task Force 
on 
Natural Resource Education 
chaired by 


Mary Jo Lavin, Deputy Regional Forester, Pacific Northwest Region 


Contents 


Summary 

NRE Survey Questions 
Survey Report 

Who Responded 


33 


Summary 


The National Task Force on Natural Resource Education, formed by Chief and Staff in May 1990, 
met on June 26-28. The attached survey was circulated throughout the Forest Service in order to 
gather information on the state of NRE within the agency. Responses were received from all 9 
Regions, several Research Stations, and the Washington Office. Though initially intended for use 
by Regional Offices only, responses were received from many National Forests and Ranger Districts. 
Over 100 responses were analyzed for this report. 


Given the number of responses and their differing levels of detail, a purely statistical analysis was 
not possible. However, we have attempted to provide an objective summary of our findings, along 
with those conclusions which were obvious, if not absolutely quantifiable, to the analysts. In summary, 
there is commitment to Natural Resource Education at all levels within the Forest Service. All 
respondents indicated that one of the agency’s primary duties should be educating the public, 
though most felt there is work to be done, especially where funding and staffing are concerned. 


The one recurring theme echoed in almost every response was that Natural Resource Education 
is vitally important. From the Washington Office to the Ranger District, respondents to the survey 
indicated that the agency has a desire to perform NRE activities. One survey contained the 
recommendation that the Forest Service strive to "regain the lead in environmental education it 
held in the 1970s." 


Audience 


There were patterns in target audience. For instance, Regional Offices and National Forests tended 
to target school-age children and their teachers, scout groups, churches, and project-specific 
audiences. The Washington Office primarily aimed its education activities at the Forest Service 
itself, other federal agencies, and Congress. Research tended to target post-graduate students, 
science teachers, and forest proucts industries. 


Budget and Staffing 


Overall, budgets and FTEs were larger at the National Forest level than at either the Regional 
Office or Ranger District levels. This may be due in part to different accounting methods--some 
Forests counted salaries and included all public affairs or interpretive funds in their NRE program. 


Partners 


Partnerships and cooperative ventures are widely used by the agency to conduct NRE activities. 
Private industry, non-profit organizations, and other federal and state agencies all cooperate with 
the Forest Service in education. Challenge Cost-Share agreements help pay for many of the 
programs carried out across the country. In many cases, sharing costs is the only way the unit 
can have a program. 


Each Region mentioned several projects that it was particularly proud of (detailed in the enclosed 
material). These ranged from small interpretive activities to large-scale, ambitious cooperative 
ventures. 


Funding 
One purpose of the survey was to determine obstacles to NRE within the agency. The primary 
barrier mentioned was funding. A large percentage of the respondents, especially from Districts, 


called for more support when budgets are formulated. Some indicated that the agency is saying 
education is important, but is not following through with necessary money or staffing. This is an 


34 


especially important point because, based on the survey, most of the NRE activities take place at 
the District level with little funding and often on a volunteer basis. 


Definitions 


Two other obstacles to Natural Resource Education were obvious to the analysts. First, there is a 
lack of consistency between Washington, the Regional Offices, the National Forests, and the 
Ranger Districts as to the definition of Natural Resource Education and what is included in it. The 
terms "conservation education" and “environmental education" were used interchangeably by the 
respondents, and some included all Public Affairs or interpretive activities in NRE. 


Communication 


Second, most regions experience a breakdown in communications between the Regional Office, 
the Forest, and the District concerning what is actually happening in Natural Resource Education. 
Often the Regional Office is unaware that the Forests have NRE programs; one Region stated 
that "there is no program at any of the Forests in this Region," which is not reflected by the 


responses from the Forests and Districts. Only one region seemed to be aware of the NRE programs 
on the districts. 


35 


Natural Resource Education Survey Questions 


The National Task Force on Natural Resource Education will be meeting 

June 26-28. At that time, we would like to have an understanding of the size of the Forest Service’s 
effort in Natural Resource Education (NRE) (environmental education, interpretive programs, and 
public outreach). 


Please take a few minutes to respond to the following statements about your unit’s programs that 
involve Natural Resource Education principles. Return NO LATER THAN JUNE 15 to M.Lavin:RO6A 
(BOX 3623, Portland, OR 97208 or FAX: 503 326-5044), 


1. 


Describe briefly the NRE program in your unit of responsibility. 


- Audience: 
~aeeeiad ES; 
- Budget: 

Pe. Identify any cooperative/partnership/interagency activities (including volunteer). Indicate 
which of these have formal agreements. 

3. Suggest where you think Natural Resource Education in the Forest Service should be 
heading. 

4. Describe briefly two or three of the BEST projects going on now in your unit that the National 
Task Force should know about. 

Name: 

Title: 

Unit: 

DG Address: 

Telephone # 


36 


Survey Report 


1. Describe briefly the NRE program in your unit of responsibility. 
Region 1 
Regional Office 


Audience: The primary audience has been elementary school (K-6) classes, but the region 
has also worked with teacher workshops and adult groups. There has been littie organizational 
involvement. This has recently changed with the designation of the Lolo National Forest as 
a pilot Forest for the watchable wildlife program. 


FTEs: The Lolo has a full-time watchable wildlife position, working with conservation 
education activities. The Regional Office estimates at least two more full person-years of 
effort which are being accomplished across the region. 


Budget: No one is specifically budgeted for conservation education activities. However, 
several are involved in the watchable wildlife program and spend approximately one half 
person-year in activities directly and indirectly involved with conservation education and 
interpretation. They have identified activities that they would like to pursue and would require 
a budget in this unit of approximately $25,000. 


Forests 


Audience: Forests and Districts had different ideas of who their audience was. Most were 
relatively close to the RO’s idea, school-age children (K-12), but some units dealt with 
audiences as narrow as grades 3-6 and as wide as the general public. Some tailored their 
presentations to specific audiences (recreation groups, 4H clubs, scout groups, etc.). One 
unit targeted its education program specifically at teachers, not students or the general 
public. 


FTEs: Most units had no full-time personnel responsible for conservation education. In 
most cases, it was part of one person’s job, usually but not always a public-affairs type. 
Training and experience varied greatly. In many cases, a seasonal employee or volunteer 
had the responsibility; however, in at least one case, a retired university professor conducted 
the environmental education program as part of his job. Some Forests had personnel at 
the SO level who conducted programs; most District programs were done on a volunteer 
or part-time basis. 


Budget: Most units had no funds allocated to education programs; what money they 
used came from project dollars. Those units that could track budgets reported from $924 
to $230,000 per year. The numbers are not reported consistently, however, and so are 
probably not very useful. 


37 


Region 2 
Regional Office 
Audience: Primarily educators 
FTES @a0:25 
Budget: Covers salary and and small contributions to cooperative efforts. 
Forests 
Audience: Teachers, students, public, government agencies 
FTEs: Zero to two 


Budget: Zero to $30,000. 


Region 3 
Regional Office 
No response. 
Forests 
Audience: Two units, the Coconino and Kaibab National Forests, responded to the survey. 
Their responses were for the most part very similar, indicating that there is some regional 
consistency there. Both Forests target schools, interested groups, other agencies, and 


Forest visitors. 


FTEs: Coconino, 0.25 FTEs. Kaibab, 0; the Kaibab stated that NRE activities are absorbed 
by employees with an already heavy workload. 


Budget: No budget for these activities on the Kaibab. The Coconino is apparently stressing 
education more lately; last year there was no budget, but this year $5,000 is earmarked for 
environmental education. 

Region 4 
Regional Office 


Audience: The Regional Office targets teachers and resource specialists with its NRE 
program. This region takes a different approach to education that Region 1, which primarily 


targets school-age children. At the Regional Office level at least, Region 4 attempts to 
"teach the teachers." 


38 


PIES?) 1/4. 
Budget: $11,400 
Forests 


Audience: There was considerable variation in the perceived audience for each Forest’s 
NRE program. For instance, the Wasatch-Cache National Forest stated that its audience is 
the one-million-plus population of the Wasatch Front; in contrast, the Fish Lake National 
Forest limited its audience to “all third-graders in Sevier County" for one program and “visitors 
to Fish Lake Basin" for the other. Most of the other units responding to the survey targeted 
students in grades K-6. 


FTEs: Most units responding to this question have from 1/4 to 1 FTE who is responsible 
for NRE programs. Some Forests have no program at all, leaving it up to individual Ranger 
Districts to conduct programs. Many of the programs in Region 4 depend heavily upon 
volunteer, seasonal, and part-time employees. 


Budget: Most units have no funds allocated for education programs. Money comes from 
specific projects or cooperators. Overall, budgets ranged from none to $22,000. 


Region 5 
Regional Office 
No Response 
Forests 
Audience: Region 5 Forests, quite understandably, had a diverse audience, ranging from 
only sixth graders to the 22 million who visit the Lake Tahoe Basin each year. Most units 
responding to the survey had a different target audience for each activity, rather than a 
general audience for their NRE program. 
FTEs: Region 5 Forests and Districts also had more personnel working on NRE than the 
other regions. No unit stated it had fewer than one FTE, and most employ in the area of a 


half-dozen strictly for NRE purposes. 


Budget: Thenumbers were not reported consistently, as some units appear to have counted 
salaries, while others did not. Responses to this item ranged from $2,500 to $270,000. 


Region 6 
Regional Office 
Audience: Forest Service personnel. 


FTEs: One GS-12 


39 


Budget: $18,500 over salary 
Forests 
Audience: All ages and user groups 


FTEs: Varied greatly. The Gifford Pinchot reported 12, while the other Forests reported 
anywhere from none to several. 


Budget: Again, this answer varied from none on some Forests to $200,000 on the Gifford 
Pinchot; however, the Gifford Pinchot has Mount St. Helens and its interpretive facilities, 
which the other Forests lack. 

Region 8 
Regional Office 
No response 
Forests 
Audience: Mostly students, teachers, members of industry, or civic groups. 
FTEs: This Region showed the largest variation of any that responded. The Chattahoochee- 
Oconee response stated no FTEs were responsible for NRE, while the Ozark-St. Francis 
said 15.5, the highest listed in any response. 
Budget: From none on several Forests to $385,000 on the Ozark-St. Francis. 

Region 9 
Regional Office 
No Response 
Forests 
Audience: Primarily grade-school students, some camp groups and church organizations. 
FTEs: From none to “at least 10 to 15 FTEs" on the White Mountain NF. 
Budget: The White Mountain considered all Public Affairs activities to be education activities 
so the budget was stated at $500,000. This is the highest stated by any responding unit, 


but the others did not include the entire Public Affairs budget. Most other respondents 
listed "none" or "minimal" budgets. 


Region 10 
Regional Office 
Audience: Virtually all visitors to Alaska traveling aboard ferries and cruise vessels, and 


older Americans enrolled in Elderhostel Marine Highway education programs through the 
University of Alaska. 


40 


FTES] #Six 

Budget: $300,000, including $20,000 of cooperator donations. 
Forests 

Audience: Schools and church groups (and "movers and shakers"). 
FTEs: Minimal; none on the Chugach, .25 on the Tongass. 


Budget: Nothing allocated to NRE. 


Research Stations 


Audience: More sophisticated than at the Regional or Forest level; mainly graduate students, 
teachers, and resource professionals. 


FTEs: Varied from none to one full-time position; information transfer is part of each scientist’s 
job. 


Budget: Varied from zero to $40,000. 


Washington Office 
Audience: Mostly internal, Congress, and cooperators. 
FTEs: Up to two, depending on the responding unit. 


Budget: Up to $50,000, again depending upon the respondent. 


2. Identify any coop/partnership/interagency activities. Indicate which of 
these have formal agreements. 


Region 1 
Regional Office 


The Regional Office recently co-sponsored and co-funded a workshop on conservation 
education in Missoula. The workshop was intended to bring together all the diverse, yet 
related, groups in western Montana that are actively involved in conservation education. 
These folks represented groups of national stature (e.g., National Wildlife Federation), local 
prominence, school districts, private organizations (e.g., Glacier Institute), and agencies 
(Montana Dept. of Fish, Wildlife, and Parks). They have an informal working agreement 
with the University of Montana, and we worked with them to make this workshop a success. 


In recent years, Region 1 has enjoyed informal cooperative working agreements with school 


districts, the University of Montana, several specialized research stations located in Montana 
(e.g., Yellow Bay on Flathead Lake) and the state fish and game agencies. 


41 


Forests 


Again, there was a range of answers to this question. Many units had no formal cooperative 
agreements, instead dealing with various audiences on an informal basis. Curiously, some 
of the Districts had more formal agreements than either the RO or the Forests; one Ranger 
District, the West Fork District of the Bitterroot National Forest, has four formal agreements 
with various publics, while the Regional Office mentioned only one. Cooperation exists 
between the Forest Service and other federal agencies, state agencies, interest groups, 
and, particularly, universities and school districts. One interesting partnership is that between 
the Moose Creek District of the Nez Perce National Forest and Winchester Arms Company. 
The two have a challenge cost-share agreement to produce a wilderness hunting brochure. 


Region 2 
Regional Office 
Region 2 is involved in a partnership project entitled the "Wyoming Conservation Connection," 
headquartered at the University of Wyoming. Eleven federal and state agencies and 
professional societies participate in the program, providing a statewide outdoor education 
newsletter, natural science workshops, on-site coaching for teachers and children, and 
special workshops. 
Forests 
Forests in R-2 listed several partnerships with school districts, Elderhostel programs, scouting 
groups, parks, associations, universities, and other federal and state agencies. The 
Conservation Connection was mentioned by one Forest. 

Region 3 
Regional Office 
Several cooperative ventures were mentioned by the RO. The Southwestern Region and 
the New Mexico Museum of Natural History have co-produced three traveling museum 
exhibits which have been viewed by over 900,000 visitors in the last 5 years. The region is 
also involved in a partnership with a large scouting group to create a conservation group. 


Forests 


Both the Kaibab and Coconino National Forests listed several partnerships, both formal 
and informal, with civic groups, state agencies, National Parks, and businesses. 


Region 4 
Regional Office 
Region 4 has cooperative agreements with the Idaho Society for Energy and Environmental 
Education; Nevada Natural Resource Education Council; Wyoming Conservation Connection; 
and Sevier County Soil Conservation District. Region 4, on the whole, relies more heavily 
on formal agreements than does Region 1, with only one regional formal agreement. 


Forests 


The National Forests in Region 4 mirrored the Regional Office’s penchant for formal 
agreements, and had many informal partnerships as well. These partnerships existed with 


42 


school boards, scouting groups, chambers of commerce, and other agencies. The Ashley 
National Forest has a formal partnership with Chevron to construct a fully-accessible 
interpretive trail. 

Region 5 
Regional Office 
There are no formal agreements at the regional level. However, eleven state and federal 
resource-based agencies in California have formed the Interagency Natural Resources 
Marketing Council to “foster and promote awareness, education, appreciation and wise 
use of the benefits, opportunities and roles of California’s natural, historical, and cultural 
resources." This is being carried out mainly through the State Office of Tourism via meetings 
and conferences, and through an interagency brochure dealing with outdoor recreation 
opportunities on public lands. This brochure will be distributed through offices of tourism, 
chambers of commerce, agency offices, and visitor centers. 
Forests 


Many agreements/partnerships were listed, but most were informal. Most were with school 
boards or private industry councils. 


Region 6 
Regional Office 


The RO listed one formal agreement, with the YCC, and 9 informal agreements with various 
youth programs, workshops, and state programs. 


Forests 


Forests in Region 6 listed many formal and informal agreements with corporations, 
environmental groups, school districts, etc. 


Region 8 
Regional Office 
No response 
Forests 


Mostly informal agreements, but a few formal ones with state forestry agencies, PLT, and 
industry. The informal agreements were primarily with school groups, civic groups, etc. 


Region 9 
Regional Office 
No response 
Forests 


Several listed PLT; other agreements, formal and informal, exist with user groups, education 
groups, and state agencies. 


43 


Region 10 
Regional Office 


Formal agreements with Alaska Elderhostel, State of Alaska, and several cruise lines and 
sightseeing organizations. More than most ROs. 


Forests 
None on the Tongass; the Chugach participates in partnerships with scout groups, school 
districts, work centers, and other interested groups. 

Research Stations 
Mostly with school groups or PLT. Rocky Mountain Station has an agreement with Forestry 
Research West, a quarterly magazine describing current research. The Southeastern Station 
has an agreement with the Acid Rain Foundation to produce educational materials for use 
by science teachers on the effects of air pollution on trees. 


Washington Office 


PLT, schools, and other federal agencies. 


44 


3. Suggest where you think Natural Resource Education in the Forest Service 
should be heading. 


Region 1 
Regional Office 


The Regional Office indicated that, in order for the Forest Service to move strongly into 
conservation education, we need policy and funding support from the top down. They 
stated that nationally, it would be relatively easy to expand the watchable wildlife program 
to include conservation education as a natural offshoot. Full-time folks are needed to pursue 
this task, and they need some experience and training. The Region said we also need 
better information about public needs and wants in this area. "In the eyes of many folks 
in the general public, the Forest Service has the right people and the right places to 
fill the void in conservation education that now exists. We should move strongly to fill 
that void on a national basis in all aspects of conservation education." 


Forests 


Almost universally, there was a call for more emphasis on education programs. This includes 
more commitment at the Forest Supervisor and Washington Office levels, budgeting for 
education programs, and legitimizing such programs by formally stating their importance. 
In addition, it was suggested that the agency needs to become more proactive in dealing 
with education needs, and planning such efforts instead of reacting to them out of necessity. 
Some suggestions included: recruitment of experienced teachers, making education part 
of every employee’s job, emphasizing existing programs instead of "reinventing the wheel," 
and including natural resource education in the recreation program and budget. One 
interesting concept advanced by the Moose Creek District of the Nez Perce National Forest 
called for a course on proper outdoor behavior, on the order of hunter-safety training, for 
all Forest users. 


Region 2 
Regional Office 


The RO stated that field-level comments identify environmental education as something the 
Forest Service should do better, perhaps even regaining the leadership position it had in 
the 1970s. However, they noted that due to budget and program emphasis, a return to 
those days is unlikely. Region 2 feels that future programs will probably retain a teacher 
emphasis, delivered through cooperative systems. 


Forests 


Forests in R-2 stressed interpretation and cooperation with other agencies and publics. 
Teacher workshops were mentioned as perhaps the most efficient, effective way to reach a 
large number of people. The Rio Grande made the comment that their program had gotten 
people involved in the Forest Planning process. An underlying theme in R-2 seemed to be 
the desire for the Forest Service to regain the position of leader in conservation, wise use, 
and protection of natural resources through a strong, active role in environmental education. 


45 


Region 3 
Regional Office 


The RO in Region 3 had several interesting observations concerning NRE. They commented 
that most environmental education programs are classroom-oriented, while the best possible 
classrooms are forest environments, and we should be getting urban populations out on 
the land. "We do not value what we do not understand." Another observation was that 
Forest Service environmental education is usually oriented toward grade schools, and 
interpretive programs are geared for adults. They suggest creating education programs for 
all age groups. One of the most interesting comments in the survey came from this response: 
"Many educators and members of special interest groups view ‘natural resource 
education’ instead of ‘environmental education’ as defensive wording on the part of 
the agency. Separating ‘our kind’ of education from other environmental education 
programs seems to further promote the now tiresome haggling between conservationists 
and preservationists...the challenge of these programs is to produce a citizenry that is 
concerned about how we use our forests and public lands. The best environmental 
lessons do not come from the mouths of experts, but from what people see and touch 
in the forest." 


Forests 


The two Region-3 Forests echoed the call by most other regions for more emphasis on 
education for students and more funding and staffing for the Forest Service. The Kaibab 
indicated a need to reach nontraditional forest user groups (the new immigrants). 


Region 4 
Regional Office 


The Regional Office feels that Natural Resource Education is headed outward, toward 
more partnerships with external entities. This is reflected by the number of partnerships, 
formal and informal, that exist throughout the region. A strong effort is being made to train 
educators and interpreters in NRE in Region 4. The Region feels there is a great opportunity 
to foster NRE programs in organization camps (scouts, churches, etc.) under special use 
permits. 


Forests 


Units responding to this item were in agreement with the Regional Office in that they felt it 
was important to train educators to teach young people. Programs which produce "multiplier 
effects" should be emphasized. 


The Fish Lake National Forest stated that NRE and other outreach programs should be 
pointed toward nontraditional forest users, the urban and suburban residents. "We seem 
to spend most of our time talking to the same old people and only ‘talk’ to the nontraditional 
users through appeals or congressionals." 


The Caribou National Forest respondent believes that NRE programs should become line 


items of Human Resource Programs, along with their own funding and administrative 
resources to match contributions by cooperators and volunteer employees. 


46 














Region 5 


Regional Office 


The Region 5 RO suggests a national cooperative venture with a national education 
organization such as state superintendents of schools, a conservation organization, and 
the Forest Service, in order to develop natural resource teaching units and materials for all 
levels of school. The RO would also like to see a trained NRE coordinator on each Forest 
in the nation. 


Forests 


Budgeting for NRE programs was high on every unit’s list. Some respondents went as far 
as listing activities "pre-budget-cut" and "post-budget-cut." Variations in yearly budgets 
were blamed for a poor Forest-Service image: "Being so unreliable has a negative effect 
on the Forest Service image. They can never count on us to be there. Without designated 
line-item budgeting for NRE, it will continue as an on-again, off-again program." 


One respondent indicated that the Districts understand the need for NRE, but that it is not 
fully appreciated at the Supervisor’s Office level. 


The Los Padres National Forest has its education programs split between Human Resources 
and Recreation and Interpretive Services. 


Region 6 


Regional Office 


The RO suggested that the NRE program should be more aggressive, that it should deal 
with the management aspects of NRE. It was recommended that national direction be kept 
to a minimum, in contrast to some other regions who wanted NRE made a national program. 
Region 6 pointed out that the same strategy cannot be applied all over the country. They 
suggested that management provide the necessary training and tools to do a professional 
job. They suggested that the Forest Service "recognize that PLT is not the only game in 
town," in one of the few criticisms of that program in the survey. 


Forests 


There was quite a bit of skepticism on the part of the Forests and Districts concerning 
NRE. They felt that, until the budget process takes note of the importance of the program, 
we in the Forest Service are "kidding ourselves" about it. Region 6 echoed the nationwide 
Call for more money and personnel, and more emphasis on the part of upper management, 
for NRE. A couple of specific proposals were: (1) Programs should give information which 
shows not only a specific message, but includes examples of the cause-and-effect 
relationships between resources; and (2) To empower each District to provide leadership 
and community education and relations, each unit should become highly involved in local 
community activities, school programs, etc. It is through this kind of involvement and 
numerous one-on-one contacts that the agency’s mission is carried out. 


In avery timely response, the Rigdon RD of the Willamette NF stated that the Forest Service 


should be educating the public on how cannibus production and methamphetamine 
by-products will be dealt with on National Forest lands. 


47 


Region 8 
Regional Office 
No response 
Forests 


It was suggested that the Forest Service work with educators nationally to make NRE a 
part of high-school curriculum. The Chattahoochee-Oconee recommended seeking private 
sponsorship of environmental education programs. In a departure from the strategy backed 
in most responses, the Tiak Ranger District of the Ouachita National Forest suggested that 
personnel in natural resource management should visit local schools to make presentations, 
rather than training teachers to do it. An interesting quote came from the Chattoga District 
of the C-O National Forest: "A majority of the visiting public still thinks we are the Park 
Service and all we do is fight fires." 


Region 9 
Regional Office 


Forest Service should concentrate on two areas of NRE: basic ecology and what the Forest 
Service does as a land manager. 


Forests 


The FS should try to reach students and the elderly, as well as legislators and teachers. 
Utilize the non-profit sector. We need a bigger urban presence. The Mark Twain National 
Forest summed up the responses to this survey item better than any other: "By far the 
most important point is, if we’re going to do it, let’s do it right. NO MORE UNFUNDED 
INITIATIVES, PLEASE! IF IT’S GOING TO BE AN ADD-ON JOB FOR PUBLIC AFFAIRS, 
FORGET IT!" 


Region 10 
Regional Office 
“Empower visitor centers to become centers of learning during the off season...consider 
moving the NRE program into the Interpretive Services program where there is an 
infrastructure, facilities, and expectations by our customers (in some Regions)." 
Forests 
Better organization and funding are needed. More partnerships with various groups. Start 
at a young age. Two districts on the Tongass, the Petersburg and the Thorne Bay, had 
very different opinions on what NRE should cover. The Petersburg called for “emphasizing 


information about the resources, not selling our management." The Thorne Bay’s comment 
was, "Tell the public more about our management practices." 


Research Stations 


Most Research Stations responding supported an enhanced NRE program. They pointed 
out the need for training for teachers in natural resources. The Southeastern Station said, 
“Demand among teachers is virtually unlimited...the demand represents an opportunity and 


48 


a problem. Supplying the materials needed through U.S. Government publications would 

| probably require a many-fold increase in our publications budgets. We simply are not 

| accustomed to turning out publications with potential audiences of students numbering in 
| the hundreds of thousands." Research Station responses typically focused on publications, 
as could be expected. While most stations said that education should be focused on teachers 
or graduate-level students, the Northeastern Station said that it should target the very young. 


Washington Office 





| The WO recommended getting a consistent definition of what NRE is, targeting young 
people, and providing easy access to information for everyone in the FS. Also pushed for 
additional funding and staffing to do the job. 


4. Describe briefly two or three of the BEST projects going on now in your 
unit that the National Task Force should know about. 


Region 1 
Regional Office 


a) Animal conservation education sessions on the Custer National Forest, Red Lodge 
District. These include exposure to Project Wild and Project Learning Tree materials. 


b) Lolo National Forest wildlife appreciation program -- begun in 1989 and is run by a 
full-time biologist assigned to this area. 


c) Co-sponsoring and support for a statewide conservation education "get-together" in 
June 1990. This brought together virtually everyone doing active conservation work in 
western Montana. On the basis of this meeting, it appears there will be a major “umbrella” 
organization developing at the University of Montana to provide a link and network for all 
groups in the state. 


Forests 


In addition to those mentioned by the Regional Office above, many programs were lauded 
by the responsible units. Such efforts include presentations to church and school groups, 
Project Learning Tree (mentioned by several units), hunter and wilderness-user education 
sessions, fishing derbies, interpretive services, and lectures. Two of the more innovative 
programs included: (1) an Earth Day program conducted by the Wisdom District of the 
Beaverhead National Forest, which consisted of an Earth Day kit (with lesson plans, art 
projects, etc. to be done by the students prior to Earth Day) and presentations to local 
schools on recycling, biodiversity, pollution, animal extinction, etc.; and (2) the use of Montana 
State University teaching students to team-teach resource education programs to local 
grade-school children, providing experience for the prospective teachers and saving money 
for the Bozeman District of the Gallatin National Forest. 








49 





Region 2 
Regional Office 


The Wyoming Conservation Connection (see previous mention under question #2). 


Forests 


Some interesting projects were mentioned. "Choices," a program sponsored by the Black 
Hills NF with Custer, South Dakota schools. This is a focused environmental education 
program, the cornerstone of which is a field day for students in grades 7 and 8. Students 
have a choice of hands-on environmental learning activities, ranging from fire and timber 
to water and wildlife. The Black Hills also has a cultural resource awareness program designed 
to give the public an awareness of past human history. Others mentioned were Project 
Learning Tree and some Earth Day activities. 


Region 3 
Regional Office 


The response from Region 3 covered special projects in its entirety. Some of the most 
notable were the Ghost Ranch Living Museum on the Carson NF and the partnership between 
the RO and the New Mexico Museum of Natural History. 


Forests 


Both Forests mentioned a program called “Impact Monster," wherein fourth- through 
sixth-grade students are taught environmental ethics through role-playing (flower, rock, 
tree, destructive camper). There was no indication of whether this is a regional program or 
not, but that is likely since both Forests mentioned it. 


Region 4 
Regional Office 


The RO mentioned the Alpine NRE Conference, which provided training for agency 
interpreters, and a couple of projects carried out by individual Forests. Few activities were 
conducted at the Region level in Region 4; most activities were at the Forest level. 


Forests 


Nearly every Forest in Region 4 conducted interpretive activities; some were national 
programs, such as Tread Lightly or Leave No Trace. Others were Forest-specific environmental 
education programs. The Caribou listed several interpretive services, including a formal 
environmental education exercise called Magic Mountain. For the past two years, the Pocatello 
District and the Forest have co-sponsored this event with the Experience-Based Career 
Education Department of School District 25 in Pocatello. This effort attempts to acquaint 
100 high-school students to the land management planning process and the challenges of 
resource allocation decision-making. Several other specialists from state and federal agencies 
have assisted in the program. 


50 














Region 5 
Regional Office 
No answer given. 
Forests 


Aside from the typical interpretive workshops, there were a few interesting items. The Klamath 
is sponsoring a "Steelhead in the Classroom" program in which grades 4-6 raise steelhead 
from eggs to release-sized fish. The Mariposa District of the Sierra NF has a partnership 
with a local realtor for placemats with federal agency information, recreation, and fire 
prevention messages printed on them to be used in local restaurants and motels. Fire 
Management on the Eldorado has entered into an agreement with Safeway stores to print 
fire prevention messages on shopping bags. The Placerville District of the Eldorado listed, 
as two of its best projects, (1) education of its own employees about forest management 
issues, and (2) New Perspectives field trips. This last is a good example of educating people 
within the Forest Service rather than concentrating only on those outside the agency. 


Region 6 
Regional Office 
Reformatting the Forest Service’s /nvestigating Your Environment educational material. This 
consists of about 35 individual lesson plans, plus about as many teaching aid sheets. 
Each Region of the Forest Service will receive a camera-ready set of the materials, so the 
Region can add Region-specific information. In Region 6, the intent is to approach the 
Pacific Northwest National Parks and National Forests Association to act as a seller of the 
material. 
The Careers in the Forest Service instructional program is under contract. 
Forests 
The Mount St. Helens Visitor Center, and the Wallowa Mountains Discovery Center. 
Region 8 
Regional Office 
No response 
Forests 
Project Learning Tree was a big hit in R8. Two others of interest were the challenge grant 
cost-sharing project between the C-O and the National Wild Turkey Federation, and "Discover 


the Forest," a set of environmental education games put out by the Sycamore District of 
the Ozark-St. Francis. 


51 


Region 9 
Regional Office 
No response 
Forests 


Mentioned were (again) PLT and several Smokey-and-Woodsy sessions, usually put on by 
the Districts. The Kenton District of the Ottawa NF is working with two private groups, the 
Kellogg Foundation and the McCormick Wilderness Advisory Committee, to establish a 
Wilderness Stewardship School. That District is also developing a Wetland Ecosystem 
Interpretive Trail, in partnership with the local chapter of Wildlife Unlimited. 


Region 10 
Regional Office 


Tongass Marine Highway Shipboard Forest Interpreter Program, conducted aboard the 
Alaska State ferries for the past 20 years; Elderhostel Marine Highway Education Program, 
in which the FS conducts natural history and management classes on the ferry between 
Bellingham, WA and Juneau, AK.; Cruise Ship Training and Assistance Program, in which 
the FS assists the cruise ship industry in training visitors to Alaska. 


Forests 


An outdoor education program in Seward and the Portage Glacier Visitor Center were 
mentioned, but no details were given. 


Research Stations 


One project of interest is the Southeastern Station’s URBAN TREE HOUSE project, in which 
a national prototype of an inner-city forestry education facility will be built in cooperation 
with other regions, the City of Atlanta, Georgia-Pacific, Georgia Forestry Commission, NC 
A&T University, and the local neighborhood. The landscaping in this "tree house" will take 
visitors from the parking lot through forest succession to a climax species “forest.” Another 
is “Gypsy Moth in the Classroom," a program conducted by NA S&PF, which educates 
students and their parents on the gypsy moth problem. 


Washington Office 
Forest Pest Management puts out several newsletters and leaflets for education purposes. 
Interpretive Services has a proposal with the Caribbean National Forest to develop an 


environmental education program with Puerto Rico. And Watershed & Air have several 
posters, brochures, and awards directed toward NRE. 


52 


youjsig Jabuey esoduey; 
youjsig Jobuey sjoseulyy 
1S9J04 JEUONEN B1IdIS 
BdIJO S$JOsiadns 
}S0JO4 JPUONEN Solped so7 
yup juowoebeuew ulseg aoye) oye] 
BdIYO S,JOosiadns 
}S9J04 JBUONeEN YJeWwe]y 
youjsig Jebuey UleJUNOW OyUM 
jSsoJ04 JeUONeN OAu| 
yOUNsIG JeBueY aylede|d 
BdIO S,Josiadns 
}S0J04 JEUONEN OpeJsop]y 
yUNsig Jabuey odes OAOUIY 
yousig weabuey owwaAje/A 
}So0J04 jeUOHNeN sojobuy 
adIHO jeucIBay 


uoibeay 
JSOMUINOS Dy19ed - G uOIBaY 


BdIHO $Josiiadns 
}S901J04 JEUOIEN ByoeD-Yyoyese/ 

BdIYO S,JOSsIadns 
}S0J04 JeUOHEN oqeAloL 

BdIO $Josimadns 
}S0J04 JEUONeEN WOquUNH 

BIO $Josiuadns 
}SoJO4 JPUOHEN e427 YSi4 

BdIHO S$Josiadns 
}S0J04 JEUOHEN Noqued 

BdIHO $Josiiadns 
}S9104 JEUOHJEN osiog 
sdIO jeuoibay 


uoibey ule}uNOWe}U] - p UOIBaY 





BIO SJOSINadNS 
}S91J04 JPEUONEN qeqiey 

BdIHO SJOsiadns 
}SO104 JEUONeN OUJU0D0D 
adIHO jeuo!Hay 


uoibay usa}SemuUyNos - ¢ uCIBaYy 





BdIPO SJOSINadnNs 

}SoJ04 JeUOHeN WNoY 
BdIHO SJOsiMadns 

}S9J04 JPUOIEN opuesy O1Y 
BIO SJOSINAdNS 

}S0104 JPUOIEN BYSeIGON 
BIO SJOSINadns 

}S9104 JPEUOHEN SijIH 49e1g 
BdIO SJOsiedns 

}S9J04 JeuOneN WoYbig 
BdIHO SJosiiadns 

}S9104 JEUONEN aAssooY-ouedely 

sd1JO jeuoibay 


uoibay uleyunow Ayooy - zg uolBbay 








yOUsIg JaBueY Y8a1D BSOoOoW 

}SOJO4 JEUONEN 9919qg ZON 
BdIPO S,Josiuadns 

}S9JO4 JOUOHeN /eus}00y 
youjsig Jabuey uehqeay 
youjsig sebuey saquiy Big 
yOusIg JaBuey Uo}sHulArq 
yujsig JaBuey ueWwaz0g 
yujsig JaBuey Jaulpsey 
BdIHO SJosiuadns 

}SoJ0J JBEUOHEN Uljel]es 
yujsig JaBuey yJooueeg 
BdIJO SJosiiadns 

}S9J04 JEUONEN Ja}IsND 
BdIJO SJosiuedns 

}S9JO4 JEUONeN Ja}eMIes1D 
youjsig JaBuey 4104 ISAAA 

}S9JO4 JEUONEN JOOJBPIG 
yOUsSIG JaBBUeY WOPsiAA 
BdIHO SJosiedns 

}S0J04 JeUOHeN peayoarag 

sdIYO jeuoibay 


uoibay UJOYWON - 1 uoIBay 








Ayysaj04 dyeAlid 8 9181S ‘Baly UJO}SPOYVION 


diy pue PpaysisyeAA 
SHEYY IQNd 

SODINIBS SAI}aICI9U| 
juawebeuew- ISeq }SAJ04 
Aysaio4 aaiesiadoog 


SdIHO uo}HulyseprA 


UO!}E}S JUSWIIadxy \seJ04 UJOY}NOS 

UONEIS JUBWIJadxXy }SeJ04 UJa}SeaYyINOS 
UONEIS 

wuow}iodxy ebuey 9 }s9J04 ule}UNOW Ayooy 

uoneIs juoW 

-10dxq obuey ¥ }Sa104 JSEMYINOS O1NIDe_d 

UO}LIS JUBWIJadxy }Ssa104 UJa}SPOYVON 

UO!}e}S JUDWIJEdXy }S9104 Je4JUID YVON 

J91U9D JUaWIdojaAeqg pue AAojouysa| ejnossiyy 

uole}sg YQeasay UleJUNOW9IU| 

Asoyesoge] s}onpo!d 3SaJ04 

Mioyesoge oI6ojospAH eJaaeMmoy 


SUOIIEYS YoIeasay 


younsig Aeg aujouL 
youjsig Bingsieied 
yUIsSIG }abueIM 
Pally UeYIYDIEY 
}SoJ04 jeuoNeN ssebuoL 
BdIO SJosiuedns 
}SoJ04 jouONeN yYoebnyy 
ad1IJO JeuoIbay 


uoibey eysely - oO} uoIbey 





S4NIBU 9 AUS UOUTID 

}S9J04 JPUOHEN UIEJUNOW OU 
BIO S,Josiuedns 

}S9104 JEUOHEN JaISOO}H-ouAeM 
BdIJO S$,Josiedns 

}S9J04 JeuONeN JOWedns 
BIO SJosiadns 

}S9J0-4 JEUOHEN BauUMeYS 
yUIsIg JaBueY UCHeudIUG 
youjsig JoaBuey uojusy 

1S9104 JCUOI}EN EMENO 
yusIG weaBueY OeWO}0d 

}SdJ04 JeUOHEN ejayeHuouo; 
BIO SJosiedns 

}S9J0O4 JPUOIEN UlEM] YEW 
BdIHO S,Josiedns 

}SdJO4 JeUONeN eyeMel} 
BdIJO SJosiedns 

}S9J04 JPUOHeN UJeJUNOW Uda/F5H 
BdIJO SJosiedns 

}SaJ04 jeuOHNeN emeddiyys 
BdIO SJosiedns 

}S9J04 jeuOHeN AuayBayiy 

sdIIHO jeuoibay 


uolbay Wwejsey - 6 uoibay 





yOuIsig Jabuey ssoweoks 
BdIHO SJOsiedns 

}S9J04 JeUONEN sloues4 }S-y1eZO 
JOUNsIq JabueY Yel) 

}S9104 JeUONeN ewWYyoeNC 
BdIHO SJOsiedns 

}S9J04 JPUONeN Ja}WNS-uOLeW sioues4 
BdIJO SJosiedns 

}S9104 JPUONeN Uo}HuIYSe AA aBb10905 
yOu)sig saBuey eHooneyuD 
8d1O S,JOSINedns 

1S9J04 JEUONeN BdU0IQ-aeYydooyeyHeYyD 


uoibeay usayynos - g uoIbey 








puysig JaBuey sizuayoyy 
youysig seaBuey ywoujeqg 
youlsig Jebuey eHpuyeo 
youysig JaBuey JaAly eng 
yOUIsSIG waBuey UopbIY 
BdIO SJosiiedns 
}SOJOY JEUOIEN syYOwWey]jI AA 
youysig waBuey yenuy 
youysig seBuey sayoen 
}S9J04 JPUONLN soYyo}eUud/A 
youysig waBuey AayjeA MOE AA 
BdINO S,so0siiedns 
}SOJO4 JEUONEN UPWIUAA-EMO]]e AA 
BdIO SJosiiadns 
ysoJ04 JBUOHeN eyHewy 
yujsig JaBuey uojsjdeyy 
BdIHO SJosiaiadns 
}S9IOY JEUOILN MeISNIS 
youjsig saBuey eoijes 
BdIHO SJosiadns 
}S9J04 JeUOI}EN NOAIYsSIS 
BdIO S.sosiiadns 
}SaJO4 jouOHeN UeHoueyO 
BdINO S,sosiuadns 
}S9104 JEUOIEN OD0YIO 
BdIHO SJosiedns 
1S9104 JBUONLN POOH “iW 
BdIO S$,Josiuedns 
1S9J04 JeUONeN snoujeW 
BOO S,Josiuedns 
1S9JOJ JPUONEN JOYIUId PJOJJIH 
BdIHO SJosiedns 
}S9JO4 JeUONeN JUOWDI4 
JOUIsIq Jabuey s|je4 aye 
1S9104 JBUONEN aj|lAJOD 
sdIHO jeuoibay 









uoibay ISaMYHON IYI - 9 UuOIBaYy 








54 

















Appendix VI. 
Key Reviewers 


Key WO Staff Contacts 


Jerry Coutant, Recreation 

Chip Cartwright, New Perspectives 

Elizabeth Estill, Director, Recreation statt 

Susan Hess, Director, Public Affairs Office 

Wilbur See, Assistant Director, Human Resource Programs 
Janet Sledge, PAO, Environmental Education and Woodsy Owl 


Forest Supervisor Panel Members 


Robert S. Devlin, R-6, Umpqua National Forest 
Steve Fitch, R-8, National Forests in Florida 

Bob Harris, R-5, Lake Tahoe Boise Management Unit 
R. Kenneth Holtje, R-9, Hiawatha National Forest 
Coy Jemmett, R-3, Prescott National Forest 

Darrel Kenops, R-2, Black Hills National Forest 

Ernie Nunn, R-1, Helena National Forest 

Dave Rittersbacher, R-4, Boise National Forest 

Mike Rogers, R-5, Angeles National Forest 

Bruce Van Zee, R-10, Chugach National Forest 


Educational Consultants 


Susan Holtje, State of Michigan 
Jon Nelson, State of Washington 


Partner/Consultants 
Jane Difley, New England Director, American Forest Council 
Paul McCawley, Extension Service, Washington D.C. 


Kathy McLaughlin, Director, Project Learning Tree, American Forest Council 
Mimi Wickless, Director, National Arbor Day Foundation 


55 




















Appendix VII. 
Draft Reviewers 


National Forest System 


Region 1 

Will Clark, Custer National Forest 

Jack De Golia, Beaverhead National Forest 
Darrel Kenops, Custer National Forest 


Region 2 
Ed Nesselroad, Regional Office 


Region 3 
Chuck Bazan, Regional Office 


Region 4 
Wally Shiverdecker, Regional Office 


Region 5 

Douglas Elliott 

Richard Gibson, Six Rivers National Forest 
Marilyn Hartley, Regional Office 

Kristi Kantola 

Ann Westing 


Region 6 

Bob Bartholomew, Siuslaw National Forest 
Hugh Black, Regional Office 

Mark Boche, Malheur National Forest 

Jose Cruz, Deschutes National Forest 
Norm Day, Regional Office 

Steve Deitemeyer, Rogue River National Forest 
Bob Devlin, Umpqua National Forest 
Marlene Finley, Siuslaw National Forest 
Nancy Graybeal, Gifford Pinchot National Forest 
Anne Heisler, Regional Office 

Norm Hesseldahl, Siuslaw National Forest 
Kathryn Holleran, Mt. Hood National Forest 
Karen Hughes, Umpqua National Forest 
Wendell Jones, Regional Office 

Michael Kerrick, Willamette National Forest 
John Marker, Regional Office 

Glenn McLaughlin, Regional Office 

Robert Meurisse, Regional Office 

John Nunan 

Tom Nygren, Regional Office 


o7 


Region 6 (continued) 

Neil Opsal, Regional Office 

Jim Pollock, Regional Office 

Rich Reeves, Regional Office 

Cynthia Reichelt, Colville National Forest 
Rick Ross, Regional Office 

Earle Rother, Umatilla National Forest 
Ed Schultz, Colville National Forest 

Ted Stubblefield, Olympic National Forest 
Jim Unterwegner, Regional Office 
Donald Virgovic, Regional Office 


Region 8 

Stan Adams, Regional Office 

Steve Fitch, National Forests in Florida 
Jennie Freidhof, Ouachita National Forest 
Larry Hedrick, Ouachita National Forest 
Mike Lannon, National Forests in Texas 

Al Peffer, Regional Office 

Cynthia Snow, Daniel Boone National Forest 


Region 9 
Craig Whitney, Regional Office 


Region 10 
Kathy Foss 
Wayne Nichols, Regional Office 


Research 


Pacific Northwest Station 
Dick Woodfin, Portland 


Pacific Southwest Station 
Dr. Alan Ewert, Riverside 
Kathy Harksen, Redding 
Dr. Nancy Rappaport, Berkeley 


Forest Products Laboratory 
Colleen Morfort 
Washington Office 


Katherine Allen, Human Resource Programs 
Douglas MacCleery, Timber Management 


State Foresters 


Raymond Aslin, Kansas 
Burnell Fischer, Indiana 
Thomas Dupree, Rhode Island 
James Garner, Virginia 

Bill Moody, Alabama 

Gerald Ross, Missouri 


Other Cooperators 


District of Columbia 
Jane Difley, American Forest Council 
Richard Reid, Society of American Foresters 


Delaware 
Dorris Morris, Warner School, Wilmington 


California 
Penny Saletta, GATE Education Coordinator 


Colorado 
Judith Roughton, Swanson Elementary, 
Arvada 


Florida 

Ms. Bozeman, Fort Clarke Middle School, 
Gainesville 

Shelly Franz, University of Florida 

Ray Mason, Division of Forestry 


Idaho 
Dr. Terry Armstrong, University of Idaho 


58 


Kansas 
John Strickler, Extension State Leader 


Michigan 
Susan Holtje, Curriculum Specialist 


Montana 

Kathy Anderson, Project Learning Tree 

Bob Briggs, Office of Public Instruction 

Kurt Cunningham, MT Fish, Wildlife & Parks 
Dr. Lee Metzger, University of Montana 


Nebraska 
Mimi Wickless, National Arbor Day Foundation 


New Jersey 
Lou lozzi, Rugers University 


Oregon 

Ernie McDonald, McDonald Communications, 
Portland 

Barbara Middleton, Oregon Forestry Education 

Billie Jo Smith, Lincoln Co. School District 


Virginia 

Peg Friedel, Vienna Elementary, Vienna 
Vicki Hodges, Vienna Elementary, Vienna 
Lou Southard, Department of Forestry 


Washington 

Lynne Ferguson, Forest Protection Association 
Jon Nelson, Curriculum Supervisor 

Fred Poston, Extension Service 


Appendix VIII. 
Curricula and Proposed 
Natural Resource Conservation Education Program Components 


The key components of program operation are the components described in Program Operation. 
Individual programs are identified for specific intended audience and education level. Within each 
component program, a specific focus, objective, appropriate messages, Current situation, and 
identification of available resource books is identified. Components have been developed for the 
following education and audience levels: 

- Preschool 

- Kindergarten - 2nd Grade 

- 8rd - 5th Grade 

- 6th - 8th Grade 

- Young Adults 


- Adults 


Program Components 
A. Preschool 
Focus: Trees 
Objective: To introduce the role of trees in the natural world. 
Messages: 
- Being outside can be fun. 
- Trees provide many useful products and perform many services. 
- Trees are part of a healthy environment. 
- | am responsible for a healthy environment. 
- Trees, like people, are living things and have a life cycle. 
Current Situation: 


Opportunities Available: 


Forest Service is currently negotiating with Headstart to develop curriculum for 
preschool based on Trees. 


Curriculum Available: 


- Some Project Learning Tree K-6 activities are adaptable for preschool use. PLT 
willing to work with USFS & Headstart for adaptations. 

- Forest Service posters may be useful. 

- OAEYC program Roots and Shoots and Rings and Things. 

- Earth, Sea and Sky - Environmental Education Association of Oregon. 


59 





Resource Books Available: 
Child Resources 


A Tree is Nice 

The Giving Tree 

A Tree is to Climb 

Berenstein Bears Moving Day 
My Backyard Magazine 
Science Land Magazine 


Teacher Resources 


50 Simple things that Kids Can Do to Save the Earth 
Hands on Nature 


Proposed NRCE Program Components: 


- Head Start curriculum 

- Sesame Street forest worker profile (with NASF) 

- Update and aggressively market Woodsy Owl 

- Adopt the "Treetures" 

- Mr. Rogers segment on trees and the natural world. 


B. Kindergarten - 2nd Grade 
Focus: The Natural World 


Objective: To explore the components of a natural environment and discover how 
plants and animals - including people - work together. 


Messages: 


- Exploring the natural world can be fun. 

- The natural world is made of living and non-living things which form ecosystems. 
- All living things need food, water, shelter and space in order to be renewable. 
- Our personal environments are part of an ecosystem. 

- We are responsible for caring for things in our environment. 

- Our actions affect the natural environment. 


Current situations: 
Opportunities Available / Curriculum Available: 


- Project Learning Tree and Project Wild activities 

- National Wildlife Federation’s Naturescope booklets 
- Pools, Pipes and Puddles 

- Mini Beasts and Butterflies 

- OBIS and Sunship Earth 

- Urban Treehouse 

- Woodsy Owl Teachers Packet 


60 


Resource Books Available: 
Child Resources 


A Tree is Nice 

The Giving Tree 

A Tree is to Climb 

Berenstein Bears Moving Day 

A Tree is Born 

How and Why Wonder Book of Trees 
Thank the Trees 

The Mountain That Loved a Bird 
Where the Forest Meets the Sea 
Ranger Rick Magazine 
Chickadee Magazine 


Teacher Resources 





50 Simple Things That Kids Can Do To Save the Earth 
Proposed NRCE Program Components: 


A teacher kit including: 

- Posters (Smokey set) with materials from the forest 

- Games and/or directions for making games (lotto and chains) 
- Seeds and cones from a variety of trees (localized) 

- Leaves (laminated or pressed) from several tree species 

- Directions for natural world scavenger hunts and urban safaris 
- Bulletin board designs for living/non-living things 

- Expand use of ecosystem picture cards 

- List of local sources of tree seedlings 


Teacher resource lists with books, videos, background information on ecosystems 
and living/non-living things 





A teaching video, showing how to use the materials and how to play the games. 
Use real teachers and real children in the video. 


Woodsy Owl teacher packet 
Woodsy and/or Smokey buttons or stickers 


Provide regional or state level inservice for teachers to provide added experience 
and/or background materials. 


Forest Service staff co-sponsor and participate in Project Learning Tree and Project 
Wild Workshops. 


C. 3rd - 5th Grades 
Focus: Natural Communities 


Objective: To discover the variety of natural communities on this planet, and learn how 
they function. 


61 





Messages: 


. Exploring the communities around us can be fun. 

- There are many natural communities in which humans live, work and play. 

- People of different cultures value and use land and other resources differently. 

- There is conflict and competition within natural communities. 

- All parts of our ecosystems are interrelated. 

- Because natural resources are limited we must learn to make decisions which 
conserve natural resources and reduce our individual impacts on natural systems. 


Current situation: 
Opportunities Available: 


Many States have outdoor experiences for children in grades 3-5, Indian Guides, 
4-H, Brownies, and Cub Scouts. 


Curriculum Available: 


Project Learning Tree, K-6 

Project Wild, K-6 

OBIS 

Oregon Forest Education Program 

Class Project 

Global Releaf Curriculum Mini-Guide 

Acclimatization 

A Good Planet is Hard to Find 

4-H Projects in many States 

National 4-H materials (What’s A Tree To Me) 

Gypsy Moth workbook 

State created material - such as Missouri Conservation Lessons 
Audubon Adventures 

Woodsy Owl Teacher packets 

Discovery Channel and other nature T.V. 

Smokey Bear Teacher packets 

National Wildlife Federation - Ranger Rick’s Naturescope series 
Ag in the Classroom materials in some States 

Forest Service posters 

Forest Health Educational packet (Forest Ecology & Wilderness) 
Gypsy Moth in the Classroom 

Green Box 

Project Life (Learning in Familiar Environments) 

Soil Conservation Curriculum 

Urban Treehouse 


Resource Books Available: 
Child Resources 


Grandfather Tree 

Paul Bunyan 

Johnny Appleseed 

Trees Every Boy and Girl Should Know 
The Lorax 

The Beaver Pond 


62 











The Young Naturalist 

Big Tree 

Berenstein Bears Nature Guide 
A Tree Named ... 

Ranger Rick Magazine 
National Geographic series 


Teacher Resources 

50 Simple Things that Kids Can Do to Save the Earth 
Proposed NRCE Program Components: 

Assistance in revising PLT materials for this age group 


A teacher’s pack on communities including: 

- Posters of variety of natural communities 

- Games and/or instructions for making games 

- Puzzles, hidden pictures and other worksheets 

. Background information for teachers on a variety of communities 

- Picture cards for use in games or on bulletin boards which illustrate components 
of a number of different ecosystems 

- Posters showing the recycling process and how to set up a recycling center in 
the classroom or school 

- Background information on recycling in natural systems and how recycling 
takes place commercially 

- Take Pride in America awards applications 

- Suggestions of class projects to undertake to conserve natural resources 

- Record sheets to be used in a community study (both rural and urban versions) 
to guide students in identifying components of their community 

- Directions for playing “The Web of Life" and “The Economic Web of Life" from 
Project Learning Tree 

- A bibliography of books and audio-visual materials to use for background reading, 
as student references and as reading books 

- Model for whole language approach using environmentally based materials 


Tree cookie kit and paper recycling kits modeled on the Oregon Forestry Education 
Program kits 


D. 6th - 8th Grades 

Focus: Ecosystems 

Objective: To explore the complexities of communities and ecosystems 

Messages: 
- There are exciting discoveries and careers in natural resources. 
- Humans are part of local, regional and global ecosystems. 
- Ecosystems are unique and diverse, containing renewable and nonrenewable 

resources. 

- Good natural resource management sustains ecosystems. 


- The products we want from our natural resources require us to make decisions 
which may necessitate trade-offs. 


63 


Current Situation: 
Opportunities Available: 


Expanding outdoor experience in some schools. Many opportunities in Scouts, 4-H, 
Campfire, Resident Outdoor School experience, etc. 


Curriculum Available: 


Project Learning Tree 

Project Wild 

Project Wild Aquatic 

Oregon Forestry Education Program 

OBIS 

Living Lightly on the Land Curriculum 

Class Project 

Acclimatization 

Global Tomorrow Coalition Lessons 

Global Releaf Curriculum Mini-Guide 

Investigating Your Environmental Materials (F.S.) 
Ag in the Classroom materials in some States 

Girl Scout/Boy Scout merit badges 

4-H Forestry projects in many States 

One Green Tree (Discovery Comic) 

National Wildlife Federation - Naturescope series - Wetlands, Trees, Plants, Animals, 
Insects, etc. 

Discovery Channel and other nature T.V. 

Urban Safari 

Forest Health Education Packet (Forest Ecology and Wilderness) 
Decisions, Decisions Booklet of Activities 

Stream Scene 

Green Box 

SCS Curriculum 

Project LIFE 

Resident Outdoor School materials 

Old Growth Forest Management, Teachers Packet 
Urban Treehouse 


Resource Books Available: 


My Side of the Mountain 

The Man Who Planted Trees 

The Lorax 

Where the Red Fern Grows 

The Yearling 

National Geographic series 

Swiss Family Robinson 

Island of the Blue Dolphins 

Understanding the Game of the Environment 
Audubon and Peterson’s Field Guides 


Proposed NRCE Program Components: 


Inter-city youth scholarship program("Send kids to Camp") for Jr High through High 
School. Kids receive paid work experience and general environmental education. 


64 











Mobile classroom ("Ecovan") 
Strengthen program with Girl and Boy Scouts 


Inter-city youth focus with Bill Cosby as spokesperson. Set up "Cosby Environmental 
Ed Center" 


Strengthen modules available for use at Resident Outdoor School settings with or 
without Forest Service personnel. 


E. Young Adults 
Focus: Natural Resource management 


Objective: To empower young adults to develop and practice a personal natural resource 
management ethic. 


Messages: 


- | can find peace and comfort in the out of doors. 

- Actions based on my personal convictions can make a difference in my life 
and world. 

- Diverse natural resource philosophies result in conflicting resource decisions. 

- Each natural resource decision results in environmental, economic, and social 
consequences. 

- A natural resource career is an exciting choice. 


Current Situation: 
Opportunities Available: 


Further expansion of outdoor experiences in the non-formal education setting: Scouts; 
4-H; YCC; Outward Bound; | can, We Can (Challenge courses); formal education 
field trips in wealthy or well-supported communities (time and money constraints); 
National Wildlife Summits; Audubon trips; SAF-sponsored camps and video on careers 
in natural resources. 


Curriculum Available: 


Project Learning Tree 

Project Wild 

Project Wild Aquatic 

Oregon Forestry Education Program 
National 4-H Forestry Invitational 

National 4-H Forestry Recognition Program 
4-H Projects in many States 

Scouting Experiences 

OBIS 

Class Project 

Global Tomorrow Lessons 

Future Farmers of America 

Forestry programs in schools 

Vocational Educational Classes in Forestry 
Urban Safaris 


65 


Stream Scene 
Creative Controversy (cooperative learning strategies) 


Resource Books Available: 


Understanding the Game of the Environment 
The Man Who Planted Trees 

Sand County Almanac 

Round River 

Green Mansion (Tropical Eden) 

In Wildness is the Preservation of the Earth 
Managing Our Natural Resources - 1983 Yearbook of AGC 
The Young Forester (by Zane Grey) 

Born Free 

Journals of Thoreau; Muir 

Wooing the Earth 

A God Within 

American Forests Magazine 


Proposed NRCE Program Components: 
Conservation Leadership Conference and Scholarship programs 


Strengthen support to existing programs (4H, Outward Bound) that meet NRE program 
goals. Provide facilities, easy access permits, trainers and other support as needed. 


Expand environmental education camp programs using Job Corps program as models. 
Utilize trained HS enrollees as trainers to work with younger students. 


Natural Resource simulation models for use in high shcool social studies, economic, 
business, biology and life science classes. 


Develop module on history of natural resource management. 


F. Adults 
Focus: Natural resource experiences 


Objective: Enable adults to identify problems, collect information, understand natural 
resource conditions and trends, form opinions, draw conclusions, and make informed 
natural resource decisions. 


Messages: 


- Forests provide multiple benefits including opportunities for quality outdoor 
recreation. 

- The natural resource decisions we make as a Nation today will create the world 
our children live in tomorrow. 

- We must work together in partnership to balance the multiple demands for 
environmental protection, economic viability and public use of our Nation’s 
natural resources. 

- There is a wealth of interesting information on natural resources and the history 
of natural resource management. 


66 


- There is a wealth of interesting information on natural resources and the history 
of natural resource management. 


Current Situation: 


Opportunities Available: 





Outdoor experiences on family and individual vacations (National Wildlife, Safari 
Club international Summit, Audubon and Lindblad tours, Alaska Coastal Ships Treks); 
recreation and interpretation programs at local, state, and national forests and parks; 
Elderhostel; continuing education programs and correspondence courses; Audubon 
lecture series; television; magazines (National Wildlife, American Forests, National 
Geographic, Sierra Club Magazine and others); Sierra Club meetings and outings; 


trail meetings (AT, etc.) forest recreation (hunting, fishing, bird watching, etc.); and 
more. 


Curriculum Available: 


Teacher in-service training; 

Scout Leader training; 

Leadership roles in Scouting, 4-H, Project Learning Tree, Project Wild and others; 
Audubon, Wilderness Society, and Sierra Club membership (meetings, publications 
and tips); ‘ 

National Wildlife Federation Conservation Summits, Audubon Ecology Camps; and 
Elderhostel programs. 


67 




















Appendix IX. 
MacCleery Adult Education Proposal 


PROPOSED FOCUS OF FOREST SERVICE NATURAL RESOURCES EDUCATION EFFORTS 


It is suggested that the proposed content of Forest Service natural resources education efforts 
be expanded to include the following: 


aL: 


Condition and Trends of U.S. Natural Resources 


Objective: 


Seek to increase general public understanding of the basic conditions and trends of U.S. 
natural resources, particularly forests, rangelands, and associated wildlife, and of the 
public policies and other factors that have been most influential in shaping those conditions 
and trends over time. 


Discussion 


Although public interest in the environment is increasing dramatically, the public does not 
have a good understanding of the basic condition of U.S. natural resources--forests, wildlife, 
water, air quality, etc. Opinion polls indicate that many people believe that the condition 
of most resources, including forests, is deteriorating at a rapid rate. This has been the 
result of media stories that commonly focus on environmental "warts," rather than the 
overall health of the body. 


In fact, the past few decades have seen a significant improvement in many components 
of our environmental heritage, including forests, most wildlife, the quality of surface water, 
streams and rivers, range conditions, air quality, soil erosion rates from farmland and 
rangeland, to name a few. Those improving trends did not happen by accident, but as a 
result of purposefully directed public policies and much effort by a large number of people. 


lf we are to develop informed public policies to address the real environmental issues 
that confront us, we must seek to improve the public’s understanding of overall environmen- 
tal trends and conditions. Before we as a society can make informed decisions about 
where we should go, we must seek to understand where we are, where we have come 
from, and how we got there. The Forest Service could help fill those large gaps which 
currently exist in most environmental education/awareness programs. 


Graphics and other visual tools would be used where possible to illustrate natural resource 
trends -- forest trends: eg. growth, harvest, inventory, etc.; wildlife trends: eg. trends in 
numbers and variety of species, diversity, etc.; rangeland trends; watershed: water quality, 
soil erosion, etc.; recreation trends; and other trends, as appropriate. 


As appropriate, this effort would also discuss the policies that were most influential in 


affecting those trends over time, eg. fire control, research in improving forest management 
and wood utilization, etc. 


69 





2. Forest Ecology and Changes in Forest and Rangeland Landscapes Over Time 
Objectives: 
To seek to gain a greater public understanding of the following: 


1. | The dynamic nature of our forests and other natural resources, their resilience in the 
face of natural and human-induced changes, and to illustrate how the forest and 
rangeland landscapes have responded to such changes over time. 


2. The basic elements of forest ecology and plant succession, and of the role that 
natural disturbance factors, such as fire, played in the natural ecology of presettlement 
forests. 


3. The role that ecologically based vegetation management practices can have in 
providing multiple benefits to society and in replicating the effects of such natural 
disturbance factors. 


Discussion 


The public is largely uninformed of the dynamic nature of forests and associated wildlife 
populations. They frequently view forests as static and never changing. This effort would 
focus on improving the basic understanding of forest ecology, the dynamics of plant 
succession and how it affects wildlife species, diversity and numbers over time and space. 
A correlary objective would be to improve public understanding of how the forest landscape 
has changed over the past few decades as a result of natural and human influenced 
factors. 


The effort should also focus on how fire, windthrow, and other natural disturbance factors 
influence natural forest ecology. As appropriate for the audience and objective, it would 
also focus on how well-planned and executed forest management practices can replicate 
those natural influences and improve overall benefits to society. 


In this way it would be supportive of the messages and direction being taken by New 
Perspectives. 


The scale--national, regional, or local--and focus would vary depending on audience and 
objectives, as well as the natural and human history of the specific area being featured. 
The focus would be on how the visual forest landscape has changed over the years. The 
following dimensions would be illustrated: 


a) Natural History (What did it look like in presettlement times. What were the major 
factors which influenced presettlement forests and rangelands--natural and Indian 
set fires, insects, windstorms, etc.) 

b) History of Human Use and Management (Illustrate how post-settlement use and 
management has affected forest and rangeland landscapes over time) 


3. Showcase the Best Examples of Contemporary Multiple-Use Management in Action 


Objective: 


To use case studies of effective multi-disciplinary management of public lands to gain a 
greater understanding of what multiple use means in real life situations. A subsidiary 


70 





——_—__—_ nani ana a 


Ee RT a a 






Ee 


objective would be to encourage the involvement of our own people in defining what it 
means on their forests and districts. 


Discussion 


The natural resource managers typically describes multiple use management in general 
terms. Often absent is a description of how the specifics of multiple use management are 
translated into practices on the ground. Forest Service literature sometimes even implies 
that multiple use management is an end in itself, rather than a means to achieve multiple 
objectives from a piece of land over time. Functionalism in Forest Service organization 
and budgets also encourages focus on single objectives. 


The idea is to use case studies to put "flesh and blood" on the generalized and sometimes 
overused term "multiple use management." 


TA 


Appendix to the MacCleery Adult Education Proposal (Appendix IX) 


This Appendix provides more details in what might be included in Items 1 and 2, i.e. “Condition 
and Trends" and "Forest Ecology and Landscape Changes." 


ITEM 1 -- CONDITION AND TRENDS OF U.S. FORESTS 


This illustrates the possible focus of a national overview of the condition and trends of our forest 
resources. Similar efforts could focus on condition and trends at the regional and state levels and 
on the condition and trends of other resources, such as wildlife, rangeland, water, recreation, etc. 


Executive Summary 


Overview 


- About 32% of the land area of the U.S. is forestland. This is about 75% of the forest cover 
that existed in 1600. 


- Clearing for agriculture has been the dominant cause of the reduction in forest cover. 
Today, we have about the same area of forestland as we did in 1920, when the area of 
U.S. cropland stabilized. 


- However, national figures mask significant regional shifts of forestlands into and out of 
agriculture. Beginning in the mid-1800’s, marginal agricultural land in the East and South 
began to be abandoned as more productive farm lands in the Mid-west were opened up. 
Many of these abandoned lands reverted back to forest. This process continued into the 
1900*s and accelerated during the Great Depression. 


- In addition to clearing for agriculture, the latter part of the 1800’s saw a tremendous increase 
in the pressures placed on U.S. forests by a growing population and rapidly industrializing 
economy. Demand increased dramatically for wood for both residential and industrial 
energy, to provide industrial products and charcoal and to house a growing nation. 

- From the 1880’s to 1920, vast areas of the East, Mid-west, and South were logged, and 


often relogged. Logging was frequently followed by repeated uncontrolled wildfires, 
sometimes with serious loss of life and property. 


Condition of U.S. Forests in 1900 


- In the early 1900’s, wildfire commonly consumed 40-50 million acres annually, an area 
the size of Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and Delaware combined. 


- Timber harvest continued to set record levels in the late 1800’s and early 1900’s. 
- Forest growth rates nationally were a fraction of harvest rates. 


- No provision for reforestation was being made, due in part to the fact that abundant and 
readily accessible stands of high quality timber made investments in growing new forests 


72 


economically unattractive. Additional factors discouraging reforestation were the substantial 
risk that any reforestation investments that were made would be destroyed by fire, and to 
lack of knowledge of reforestation technique. 


- Public concern over the depletion of our forests was the catalyst for the first national 
conservation movement in the late 1800’s. The Forest Service was the product of that 
movement. 


- Coinciding with public concern over our forests was a similar concern over the fate of 
many wildlife species, which were under merciless pressure from habitat destruction and 
from unrestricted sport and market hunting and use of wildlife products, especially feathers, 
in women’s fashions. 


Condition of U.S. Forests in 1990 


It is a measure of both the inherent resilience of our forests, and of the success of the policies 
that were put in place in response to public concerns in the early decades of this century, that 
forest conditions over much of the U.S. have improved dramatically since 1900. As examples: 


- The area consumed by wildfire has been reduced by more than 95%, from 40-50 million 
acres in the early 1900’s to 2-4 million acres today--even in bad fire years. 


- By 1986, growth was more than 3 1/2 times what had been in 1920. Nationally, forest 
growth rates have exceeded harvest rates since the 1940’s, with each decade generally 
showing a greater margin of growth over harvest than the one preceding. 


- By 1986, tree growth nationwide exceeded timber harvest by 37 percent. 


- Since 1952, average net growth per acre has increased nationally by almost 70 percent. 
Net growth exceeds harvest in every region of the country, although the margin of growth 
over harvest varies considerably by region--with the greatest margin occurring in the 
North and Rocky Mountains, and the least in the South and Pacific Coast States. 


- Even though the rate of timber harvest has increased by almost 40 percent nationally 
since 1952, the rate of forest renewal and growth has more than kept pace. In 1986, the 
volume of standing timber nationally was 24 percent greater that it had been 1952. 


- The rate of tree planting has been increasing steadily since the 1960’s. Virtually every 
year since 1984 has set a new record for tree planting. Planting on Federal and public 
land has historically kept pace with needs. Most of the increase in tree planting since the 
1960’s has been on private lands. Throughout the 1960’s and ’70’s, the greatest increase 
in tree planting occurred on forestlands owned by industrial forest products firms. Since 
1980, however, the owners of private, non-industrial forest lands have substantially increased 
their rate of tree planting. 


- Wildlife has been another major success story. The numbers and variety of most forest 
related wildlife have improved dramatically since the 1930's. 

Forest Policies Which Led to Improved Forest Conditions 

A number of forest policies emerged as national goals and priorities in response to public concerns. 


The success of most of these policies depended upon effective cooperative relationships among 


73 





federal, state, local, and private sector efforts. The Forest Service was a key leader in promoting 
and catalyzing such cooperation and helping to focus it to achieve common goals. 


The policies and priorities that had the greatest effect on the improved condition of our forests 
are the following: 


- Protecting the forest from uncontrolled wildfire and insects by focusing on fire suppression, 
prevention, and public education; 


- Improving the art and science of forest regeneration and management, including research, 
establishment of tree nurseries, and providing technical and financial assistance to forest 
landowners; 


- Establishing and enhancing professionalism in forestry, through establishment of accredited 
forestry schools, professional societies, etc.; 


- Improving the efficiency with which wood products are utilized in the woods, at the mill, 
and in end product applications; 


- Improving the economics of forest management on private lands by improving economic 
incentives and removing tax and other disincentives; 


- Conducting a periodic forest survey of trends in forest area, growth, harvest, mortality, 
and other parameters; 


- Establishing the Forest Reserves (later the National Forests) for watershed protection and 
sustained timber production. 


ITEM 2 -- THE ECOLOGY OF NORTH AMERICAN FORESTS 


Early colonists in North America found a truly vast and magnificent forest. It is estimated that 
about 95 percent of New England was covered with forest. Except for the few areas cleared by 
Indians for agriculture, natural forest predominated. It is estimated that natural presettlement forest 
covered 950 million acres or about 43 percent of U.S. land area. In the East, the forest occupied 
a much larger percentage of the land. 


Popular perception of the presettlement forest is that most of the area was comprised of extensive 
stands of large, ancient trees that were replaced only after death from old age had opened up 
the forest canopy to regeneration by young seedlings. This steady state or climax forest certainly 
did occur in some cases, but presettlement forests were exceedingly complex and dynamic. 


Natural disturbance agents, such as wildfire, insects, disease, and wind storms had major influences 
on the age, species, composition, and nature of most presettlement forests. 


Forest plant communities commonly go through a series of successional stages after wildfire or 
other disturbance, as sunloving "pioneer" species and communities are gradually replaced over 
time by species more tolerant to shade. Most presettlement forests consisted of a mosaic of plant 
communities in various stages of successional development, which varied depending upon the 
specific fire history of the area. Wildlife was well adapted to the changes brought by fire and 


other disturbances, and species and diversity shifted considerably over time in response to 
vegetation changes. 


74 














In the Northeast, huge areas of mature spruce/fir would periodically be attacked and killed by 
spruce budworm insect epidemics (on 60 to 120 year intervals). Such events were often followed 
by extensive wildfires which set the stage for forest regeneration. 


In the South and central Midwest, oak and pine savannas occupied tens of millions of acres. 
These savannas were maintained by frequent groundfires (on 3-10 year intervals), caused naturally 
by lightning or set by Indians to maintain preferred habitat conditions for game and to reduce 
undergrowth and forest fuels. It is estimated that there is now more standing forest volume in 
many of these old savanna areas today than existed there during presettlement times. 


Even in the moist and cool northern Lakes States, wildfires, although infrequent, were the 
predominant means of forest renewal over vast areas. Such fires occurred during periodic regional 
drought cycles, and often destroyed timber stands over areas of tens or hundreds of thousands 
of acres at a time. 


In the forests of the Rocky Mountains and Pacific Coast, both natural and Indian-set fires had a 
major ecological influence on the age, species composition, and nature of forests. Early explorers 
reported that Indians used fire extensively to maintain preferred habitat, for signaling purposes 
and as a weapon of war against hostile tribes. 


The influence of fire varied in the mountain West greatly from area to area depending upon climate, 
land form, aspect, and other factors. It varied from frequent, low intensity groundfires in the more 
arid and open forest types such as ponderosa pine, to infrequent but high intensity, stand-replacing 
crown fires in the more moist areas and north slopes (lodgepole pine and Douglas-fir types are 
examples). 


Intense, stand killing fires might occur on a given area on a frequency of from 50 to 200 or more 
years. The wildfires in Yellowstone National Park in 1988 were a spectacular example of such 
stand replacing fires. 


A remarkable set of photos of the presettlement forest landscape of the Black Hills of North Dakota 
was made in 1874 by a photographer accompanying the first exploration expedition into the area 
led by George A. Custer. These photos show a landscape subject to frequent burning. Early 
successional vegetation (Such as aspen) is widespread. Evidence of older stands of ponderosa 
and lodgepole pine is uncommon. Photos taken a century later indicate that the landscape has 
changed dramatically due to the exclusion of wildfire for the last seventy years. The area in forest 
has increased and the forest is now predominantly mature ponderosa and lodgepole pine. The 
presence of aspen has been greatly diminished. 


Although we do not have the same photo record everywhere, the story of the Black Hills is repeated 
in varying degrees in much of the Mountain West from the Rockies to the Sierra Nevada in California, 
and east side of the Cascades in Oregon and Washington. 


Virtually all forest stands in the Rocky Mountains and Pacific Coast owed their origin to fire or 
other catastrophic disturbance, with the possible exception of some stands on the Olympic Peninsula 
of Washington and the coast of Alaska. 


While the specific role and influence of fire in U.S. forests varied considerably in specific areas, 
the predominant influence of fire was pervasive. Over the eons, plant and animal species and 
communities have evolved complex adaptions to wildfire and other natural disturbances so common 
in North American forests. Such adaptions range from thick, fire resistive bark of many tree species, 
to species adapted to rapidly regenerate and grow in the openings and mineral soil created by 
wildfire. 


75 


Policy Implications 


1) 


2) 


The important role that wildfire and other natural disturbance played in the natural 
ecology of U.S. forests is an important element in explaining the response of those 
forests to the extensive logging, land clearing, and human caused wildfire that occurred 
in the latter half of the 19th Century--and the resilience with which those forests later 
recovered from such disturbances. 


An essential element in the development of effective strategies and prescriptions to 
manage forest vegetation and associated wildlife is an understanding of the natural 
ecology of those systems. This includes a knowledge of the adaptions of plant and 
animal species and communities to fire and other natural disturbances, so that 
management strategies recognize and are consistent with the. ecological characteris- 
tics of the plant and animal communities they are designed to influence. 


76 









a 
“oe hae eT 
wef S346) Ss ee 


A 
id =e aa real SO 


. : ~ 0 +: 07: @ wh) “Serr 





| 





ONAL AGRICULTURAL LIBRARY 


1022520282 








