Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 





aSB950 
9 fe 
-A132S68 






USDA/ARS 


Stoneville, Mississippi 





Annual Report on Progress (CY 1995) 
and 


Plans (CY 1996) 











CONTENTS 


IAMITCOCLICHONAriad. ere, soadic. fuac. anmaimieln. o§6 .alliiece. cc. 


ll. Mission Statements and Staff............................. 


lll. Summary of Research Progress for Calendar Year 1995 


A. Narrative 


B. Indicators of Progress 


1. Publications (Published, In Press, Accepted)........... 
Be YIVIGIUS Chip ee eet eee ee ic is eed es Pees 


ESM TIRS ETI IOS Meee es PLS in ee ae, ck ew to ao 


IV. Planned Research for Calendar Year 1996 


A. Narrative 


lo Gets oe tele RTEY oo ws ce igh 8 ae 


2 Extramuraieearoaviioae. ehioeee one maltavencoss.... 


Page 


oe 


23 
28 
32 


3/ 
43 


I. INTRODUCTION: 


This report summarizes progress made on various research objectives in 1995 
and presents plans for 1996. 


Many of the results are preliminary and others are being released through 
established channels. Therefore, this report is not intended for publication and 
should not be referred to in literature citations. 


The intent of this report is to give the reader an overview of Southern Insect 
Management Laboratory (SIML) research activities. These activities (progress 
and plans) address the laboratory and unit missions (listed on pages 4-6). 


SIML activities are centered around seven research thrusts, which reflect present 
CRIS work units. These are: 


1. 


Biological and genetic control and area-wide management of crop 
insect pests, emphasizing Heliothis/Helicoverpa; 


Population ecology of insect pests for integrated control/ 
management systems; 


Biology, ecology, behavior, and biological control of plant bugs, 
cotton aphids, and sweetpotato whitefly; 


Strategies for managing crop insects, emphasizing the cotton 
agroecosystem and pesticide effectiveness; 


Integrated control of pecan pests; 
Host plant resistance in soybean pests; and 


Rearing of eight insect species in support of research around the 
world. 


This report is divided into four sections: 


1 Report on research progress in CY 1995; 


2s List of publications including those in press and accepted for 
publication. 
3: Other indicators of progress such as presentations and papers in 


manuscript; and 
4. Plans for CY 1996. 


In each section, items are arranged by researcher (in alphabetical order of lead 
scientist; the name of lead scientist and cooperating and/or collaborating 
researchers are provided for each item). If the reader has questions pertaining 
to the item, he/she should contact the individual scientist or laboratory director. 


4 


Il. MISSION STATEMENTS AND STAFF: 


SOUTHERN INSECT MANAGEMENT LABORATORY 
ARS/USDA, Mid South Area 
P. O. Box 346 
Stoneville, Mississippi 38776 
Telephone: Comm: 601-686-5231 
FTS: 700-497-2231 
FAX: 601-686-5421 


OFFICE OF LABORATORY DIRECTOR 
MISSION: 


The mission of the Southern Insect Management Laboratory is to conduct 
fundamental research on the biology, ecology, and rearing of field crop and pecan 
insect pests and their natural enemies; develop innovative biological, genetic, 
cultural, and chemical methods for suppressing insect pests; and integrate this 
knowledge into insect management systems, with emphasis on area-wide 
methods for Heliothis/Helicoverpa. A goal of this laboratory is to develop new and 
improved insect pest suppression strategies, including improvements in pesticide 
effectiveness, for population management approaches to improve crop production 
efficiency. Exotic organisms are received and cleared through the Stoneville 
Research Quarantine Facility for biological control of insects and weeds. Exotic 
predators and parasites are released and evaluated for establishment on field 
crop insect pests. 


ARS PERSONNEL: 


D. D. Hardee, Laboratory Director 
T. G. Burton, Secretary AO 
L. E. Taylor, Office Automation Assistant 
W. W. Bryan, Entomologist/Quarantine Officer 
S. B. Ginn, Biological Science Laboratory Technician 
R. L. Ford, Acting-in-Charge (Insect Rearing) 
H. E. Winters, Biological Technician (Insect Rearing) 
G. J. Patterson, Insect Production Worker 
J. D. Warren, Engineering Technician (Shop) 


SOUTHERN INSECT MANAGEMENT RESEARCH UNIT 


MISSION: 


To develop new knowledge on the biology of field crop insects for development 
of new and improved control tactics and to establish fundamental principles for 
encouraging and using natural enemies more effectively. To develop and 
integrate insect suppression strategies into field crop and pecan systems that 
minimize the cost of plant protection, yet are ecologically acceptable. Specifically: 


He 


Elucidate the efficacy of indigenous predators and parasites, 
particularly those attacking the bollworm, Helicoverpa zea, and 
tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens. 


Research and develop methods for augmenting parasite populations 
in management of insect pests of field crops, particularly use of 
Microplitis croceipes and other parasitoids for control of 
Heliothis/Helicoverpa. 


Develop new knowledge on biology and _ behavior of 
Heliothis/Helicoverpa spp. and beet armyworm, including use of 
entomopathogenic viruses in management of the latter. 


Conduct basic biological and ecological research on plant bugs, 
particularly the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris, cotton aphid, 
Aphis gossypii, and the sweetpotato whitefly, Bemesia tabaci. 


Develop monitoring and predictive technology through quantitative 
population ecology for field crop insect pests, particularly 
bollworm/budworm, tarnished plant bug, and cotton aphid. 


Assess the role of early season host plants in the buildup of 
Heliothis/Helicoverpa, beet armyworm, and tarnished plant bug 
populations and devise new and innovative tactics for suppressing 
these populations, including use of entomopathogenic viruses in 
area-wide management of these pests. 


Develop chemical/biorational control tactics for use in integrated 
systems. 


Develop chemical, biological, and other nonchemical methods for 
control of insect and mite pests of pecans. Evaluate selections and 
native pecans for yield and adaptability to the mid-south. 


Locate, develop, and evaluate soybean cultivars resistant to insects. 


- 


ARS PERSONNEL: 


D. D. Hardee, Research Leader, Laboratory Director 
(Supervisory Research Entomologist) 


M. R. Bell, Research Entomologist 
R. W. Hoagland, Biological Science Technician 


G. W. Elzen, Research Entomologist 
L. C. Adams, Biological Science Technician 


D. E. Hendricks, Research Entomologist 
D. W. Hubbard, Biological Science Technician 


L. Lambert, Research Entomologist 
W. L. Solomon, Biological Science Technician 


W. P. Scott, Research Entomologist 
D. A. Adams, Biological Science Technician 


M. T. Smith, Research Entomologist 
F. M. Williams, Biological Science Technician 


G. L. Snodgrass, Research Entomologist 
Vacancy, Biological Science Technician 


III. SUMMARY OF RESEARCH PROGRESS 


FOR CALENDAR YEAR 1995: 





A. 





NARRATIVE: 


ip 


In-House 


A study was began to evaluate the effects of parasitization on 
lectin and catecholamne levels in corn earworm larvae, 
Helicoverpa zea. The CEW larvae were parasitized using 
Microplitis croceipes. [O. A. Adeyeye (Duquesne University), 
W. W. Bryan] 


As in 1994, over 8 million cotton bollworm larvae were grown and 
used to produce enough of an EPA-labeled insect virus to treat 
215,000 acres to evaluate the effect of treating early season hosts 
of the tobacco budworm as an area-wide pest management 
procedure. The virus was applied under a contract using private 
aircraft with global position systems for guidance to treat the same 
311 square mile area with the virus as was treated in the 1994 test. 
This year, the virus was applied from 5 May through 10 May 1995, 
approximately one week later than in 1994 when it was applied 
between 28 April and 3 May. It was disappointing that Dr. 
Snodgrass’ data did not show any differences in the numbers of 
larvae or eggs on the cotton; however, we did see positive 
indications of this year’s effect that may be compared to 1994. 
First, when larvae were collected from early season weeds in 1994 
(tobacco budworm and bollworm), 85% of those collected died from 
virus infection. Those larvae were collected from only 2 locations 
for a total of only 57 larvae, and they were collected at 3 days after 
treatment. In comparison, a total of 398 tobacco budworm larvae 
were collected from weed hosts in 1995, and they were sampled 
from 21 different spray areas (8000 acres per area) and at various 
times. The mortality of these larvae averaged 54% due to virus 
infection, and 100% of those collected immediately after the 
application were diseased. By the next week, the percentage 
infected larvae decreased - but by that time, many of the infected 
larvae would have been dead and therefore would not have been 
collected. The persistence of virus infection for the following 10 
days could indicate the transmission from dying, diseased larvae to 
new larvae on the hosts. In 1994, overall counts of tobacco 
budworm and bollworm moths in the treated area between 10 June 


and 22 August averaged 53% less than the numbers in traps in the 
untreated areas, and the data indicated the bollworms were the 
most affected. In 1995, the average numbers of both bollworms and 
budworms trapped in the treated area were 60-70% less than the 
number in the untreated area, with an average total reduction of 
66%. We expected the effects of the early virus treatment to be 
expressed during the emergence of moths in the June generation. 
That is what is indicated by the 1994 H. virescens trap captures (ca. 
6 June through 4 July). The 1995 trap data not only indicate the 
reduction in June, but also suggested continued reductions through 
the July population. This was also what Jane Hayes suggested 
regarding her evaluation of the 1991 test. Although we had 4 areas 
picked for possible cage evaluations as in previous years, 
circumstances resulted in no cage data of any value from this year’s 
test. (M. R. Bell) 


The baculovirus from the beet armyworm was produced in the lab 
using larvae supplied by the Gast Rearing Laboratory and the SIML 
insect rearing. Field tests were then conducted in Texas to 
compare the effectiveness of a commercial preparation and a local 
isolate of the nuclear polyhedrosis virus, and the effect of 
formulation and application in the level of control obtained. These 
studies showed that 78 to 92% of larvae on cotton were infected 
when the virus was applied using ground equipment compared to 
52% when it was applied by aircraft. Results further showed the 
local isolate equal to the commercial virus, and that the addition of 
an oil-sugar formulation increased the percentage of larvae infected 
in the field. Tests were continued in the laboratory to examine new 
methods of producing entomopathogenic viruses for field 
application. The efficacy of producing the baculovirus from the beet 
armyworm was demonstrated, although additional information is 
needed prior to developing large scale methodology. (M. R. Bell) 


A Microplitis croceipes rearing enhancement study using 
Helicoverpa zea was completed. The study evaluated three 
oviposition methods (treatments) used to expose H. zea larvae to 
M. croceipes females. The three different oviposition methods 
evaluated were: (1) A multicellular rearing unit; (2) a 32-cell tray 
(27 x 15 x 1.5-cm) method which was a clear plastic tray with 32 
cells that each contained the Nutrisoy/wheatgerm diet; one larva 
was placed in each cell and the tray was covered with a paraffin 
coated plastic sheet; and (3) a tray/cage method which consisted of 
a modified version of the multicellular rearing unit with another fiber- 
glass tray that was modified to serve as a lid. The lid had a 25.4 x 
27.9 cm area cut in the center; the remainder of the top had rows 


9 


of 6.4-mm diameter holes and a 3.2 cm stoppered hole for the 
introduction of parasitoids. The first two methods were evaluated by 
holding the trays in large wooden cages (inner dimensions 40.6 x 
81.3 x 29.2 cm) with cast acrylic tops (6.4 mm); the cages have 
organdy in the backs and sides for ventilation. Each cage had a 
1.3-cm diameter stoppered hole for the introduction of parasitoids. 
Three different density levels of H. zea larvae were used for each 
oviposition method tested: 100, 200, and 300, 4 to 5 d old H. 
zea larvae. A total of 10,800 larvae were used in the test. 
Females aged 6 to 8 d were used for parasitism; the test was 
replicated 6 times. A split plot, replicated in time, experimental 
design was used. The results showed method 2 generally gave 
higher mean percentages of the three methods tested. Cocoon 
formation: method 2, 60.72%; method 1, 55.50%; and method 
3, 47.72%. Total parasitism: M2, 78.89%; M1, 61.94%; and 
M3, 54.72%. Total mortality: M2, 20.22%; M1, 27.72%; and 
M3, 37.94%. The 100 density had the higher percentages among 
the three densities tested. Cocoon formation: density 1, 57.78%; 
density 2, 54.33%; and density 3, 51.83%. Total parasitism: 
D1, 68.11%; D2, 65.94%; and D3, 61.50%. (W. W. Bryan) 


Selected sites in Washington and Bolivar Counties were monitored 
for the incidence of sterility in the wild tobacco budworm, 
Heliothis virescens (F.), populations. Sites were selected to 
coincide with release sites of a three year pilot test program to 
suppress the wild population of H. virescens. The pilot test was 
conducted during 1991-1994. During the 1995 growing season 
wild males were collected from pheromone traps at three different 
locations. Two of the sites had been release sites in the pilot test 
project and a control location from a non-release site. Preliminary 
evaluations showed 2-4% sterility was found in the release sites. 
Further evaluations are in progress. (W. W. Bryan) 


Seven treatments were evaluated for control of the cotton aphid in 
replicated small plots in cotton. All treatments were significantly 
more effective than the untreated check, and Karate was less 
effective than all other treatments except the untreated check. 
(G. W. Elzen) 


Eight treatments were evaluated for control of the cotton aphid in 
replicated small plots in cotton. A pretreatment survey indicated a 
moderate aphid infestation. In general, treatments which included 
Provado or Bidrin provided greater control than other treatments, 
except that Thiodan was more effective than Bidrin after the second 
application. (G. W. Elzen) 


10 


Five treatments were evaluated for control of tarnished plant bug in 
replicated small plots in cotton. The tarnished plant bug population 
was at a low level when tests commenced. Admire provided control 
equivalent to Cygon and methyl parathion. (G. W. Elzen) 


Nine treatments were evaluated for control of tarnished plant bug in 
replicated small plots in cotton. The tarnished plant bug population 
was at a low level when tests commenced. Provado and CGA 
215944 provided control equivalent to Curacron, Orthene, and 
Bidrin. (G. W. Elzen) 


Ovicides, including the newly registered product Provado, were 
evaluated in field and laboratory bioassay conditions using cotton for 
control of tobacco budworm. Susceptible and insecticide resistant 
insects were evaluated. Lower mortality to a pyrethroid in the 
resistant strain indicated possible resistance in the eggs. Provado, 
which is targeted at sucking pests, provided acceptable control. 
(G. W. Elzen) 


A standard spray chamber bioassay was used to evaluate 
resistance levels in tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (F.), to 
pyrethroid, carbamate, and organophosphorus insecticides and 
Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner during the 1995 cotton season in 
Washington County, MS. An adult vial test was also used to 
evaluate the frequency of resistance to a pyrethroid, carbamate, and 
organophosphorus insecticide. An ovicide bioassay was also run on 
a susceptible laboratory strain and one of the field collected strains 
(generation 2). These bioassays evaluated different kinds of 
resistance and correlations were not always clear due to the 
expression of different resistance mechanisms in specific life stages. 
The spray chamber bioassay may have more clearly shown levels 
of metabolic resistance, while the adult vial test was an indicator of 
target-site resistance. The data suggested that metabolic resistance 
is becoming more important in tobacco budworm. Tests did not 
indicate resistance to B. fthuringiensis-based insecticides in the 
tobacco budworm at the present time. The ovicide test indicated 
possible resistance to pyrethroids in eggs. High levels of resistance 
in the tobacco budworm to all classes of conventional insecticides 
remained a problem. Resistance management plans for tobacco 
budworm should emphasize strategies that involve conservation of 
all insecticides used against all pests in cotton. (G. W. Elzen) 


Production of insects for USDA-ARS research by the Stoneville 
Insect Rearing Unit required maintenance of seven insect species: 
Heliothis virescens, Helicoverpa zea, Anticarsia gemmatalis, 


Li 


Pseudoplusia includens, Spodoptera exigua, Cardiochiles nigriceps, 
and Cotesia kazak. Support of USDA-ARS scientists at Stoneville 
and laboratories in Tifton, GA; Mississippi State, MS: College 
Station, TX; and Weslaco, TX, required production of 314,000 H. 
virescens pupae, 285,000 H. zea pupae, 334,000 P. includens 
pupae, 270,000 A. gemmatalis pupae, 264,000 Spodoptera exigua 
pupae, 54,763 Cardiochiles nigriceps cocoons, 13,735,200 C. kazak 
cocoons, 39,275,000 H. virescens eggs, 27,840,000 H. zea eggs, 
35,222,000 P. includens eggs, 17,734,000 A. gemmatalis eggs, and 
24,000,000 S. exigua eggs. Additional research support included 
mixing, dispensing, and filling 140,200 30-ml plastic cups and 996 
3.8-liter multicellular trays with artificial diet. Total diet mixed and 
dispensed in 1995 was 14,697 liters. Several short courses in 
insect rearing techniques were given to employees of: Abbott 
Laboratory, Chicago, IL, and BASF, Greenville, MS. Approximately 
150 researchers located in 37 states, England, Canada, and Japan 
participated in the Cotton Foundation and American Soybean 
Association Insect Distribution Programs. (R. L. Ford) 


Comparisons of plots of transgenic cotton (NuCotn 33) from Delta 
and Pine Land Company (Scott, MS), DP5415 (same as NuCotn 33 
without Bt), Coker 312 (background parent of 1994 transgenic line), 
and MD951 (nectariless, smoothleaf) indicated (1) significantly fewer 
cotton bollworm/tobacco budworm larvae and lower percent worm 
damage in NuCotn 33 than all other varieties, and (2) significantly 
fewer cabbage loopers, saltmarsh caterpillars, garden webworms in 
NuCotn 33 than other varieties, and (3) approximately 50% as many 
beet armyworms in NuCotn 33 as in other varieties. Coker 312 had 
approximately 50% more tarnished plant bugs (TPB) than DP5415 
and NuCotn 33 and over twice as many as MD51. These results 
suggest that the higher numbers of TPB observed in 1994 in the 
transgenic cotton were due to the Coker background and not the 
transgenic character. All other insect numbers, cotton 
characteristics, and yield were approximately equal. (D. D. Hardee) 


A study of boll weevil emergence and movement of the boll weevil 
in the mid-delta of Mississippi showed that (1) boll weevils survived 
the winter of 1994-95 in extremely high numbers, (2) considerable 
movement of overwintered and first generation boll weevils occurs 
after bloom as detected by pheromone traps (approximately 50% 
of the weevils captured during the week of July 3 were first 
generation), especially 1-3 miles from cotton, and (3) extremely high 
late season numbers suggest the need for a harsh winter to reduce 
1996 numbers. (D. D. Hardee) 


Beet armyworm surveys to determine seasonal occurrence of beet 
armyworm moths were conducted as a continuation of the survey in 
1994. Traps were set about 2.8 miles apart in a 76-mile line from 
Hwy 448 west of Shaw to 2 miles south of Valley Park. The trapline 
traversed 4 counties. Weather conditions were mild in the 1994-95 
winter months (December-February) compared with conditions 
during these months in 1993-94. For example, the lowest soil 
temperature (2 in. deep) was 39°F on only the night of 5 January 
1995, was 43°F for only 3 nights, and was above 47°F during all 
other nights of these 3 months. Average low air temperatures for 
the winter of 1994-95 were 4°F higher than the average for the 
1993-94 winter. The soil temperature on 11-12 January 1994 
dropped below 32°F for two nights. Captures of BAW were tallied 
weekly from 1 December 1994 to 29 November 1995, and plotted 
on graphs each week as BAW captured/trap/night in the 30 traps. 
Captures from 1 December to 28 February 1995, were less than 
0.09 BAW/trp/nt. BAW were captured during all 3 winter months, 
but their activity was hindered when nightly temperatures dropped 
below 52°F. From 1March to 31 May, captures peaked once the last 
week of March and once in the middle of May, but both peaks were 
below 1 BAW/trp/nt. Starting the week of 28 June-5 July 
(3.48/trp/nt), moth captures increased at a continuous, geometric 
rate to the maximum seasonal catch of 371.8/trp/nt during the week 
of 7-13 September. From 14 September-23 October captures 
decreased at a comparable but inverse rate, to <130/trp/nt on 23 
October. By 15 November, average BAW captures dropped to 
30.1/trap/night due primarily to the increased frequency of low 
nighttime temperatures below 40°F. From June to November of 
1995, there was only one single peak in captures of BAW, and there 
were no acute reductions or dips in average numbers that would 
delineate distinct generation spans. Condition and apparent age of 
the moths captured during the growing season indicated that they 
Were mixed ages and from a population matrix of interlaced 
generations. Ancestral lines of these moths probably were the larvae 
and moths that feed on wild host plants in October-December 1994 
and had survived the 1994-95 winter. (D. E. Hendricks) 


For the first time in the Delta, a liquid formulation of a single 
pheromone chemical was developed and applied aerially (Ag Tractor 
400) for the purpose of disrupting tobacco budworm and bollworm 
mating behavior and suppressing populations. These applications 
were made on 90 A of cotton and surrounding insect host plants. 
The single pheromone was dispensed on 9 June, 14 July, and 10 
August 1995 at 10 grams, 5 grs and 5 grs per acre, respectively. 
Inspections made of 250 cotton plants 5 and 9 days after the 9 June 


ih 


and 14 July treatments showed no damage of the squares or 
blooms caused by tobacco budworms and bollworms. No TBVW/BW 
larvae were found during these inspections. Also, from 2 to 10 lady 
beetles (adults and larvae) were found per plant during these 
inspections. Numbers of moths captured in pheromone traps 
dropped significantly after each treatment for at least 7 days, i.e., 
from 31-42/night before treatment to 1-7/night average for 7 days 
after a pheromone treatment. Results were encouraging while 
indicating that the treatments effectively blocked chemical 
communications between the genders and reduced their chances of 
reproduction. Overall populations of tobacco budworms and 
bollworms were relatively low during the early 1995 growing season. 
(D. E. Hendricks, J. E. Mulrooney, R. A. Wesley) 


Surveys of bollworm and tobacco budworm moth populations using 
replicated installations of 30-in. diam. pheromone traps baited with 
appropriate pheromone baits showed that moth catches from 
clusters of 3 to 4 traps set 50 ft apart at 3 different field locations 
represented true population fluctuations. Cluster of traps nearly 
eliminates the daily variability in captures of moths caused by 
unique environmental conditions found at sites where single traps 
might be installed. These unique conditions, such as different 
vegetation types or soil moisture levels near a single trap, may vary 
greatly within a single County or from one side of a cotton field 
compared with another side. Significant oviposition on cotton 
preceded, by 3 days the sharp increase in moth captures in traps at 
the beginning of each moth flight during the season. 
(D. E. Hendricks) 


Population density profiles, based on captures in traps (baited with 
pheromone) and set in three locations as in previous years, were 
plotted for the 1994-95 winter months and from January-November 
1995. Variations in rainfall and soil and air temperatures were also 
plotted and compared with captures of both tobacco budworms and 
bollworms. The graphs showed 5 distinct peaks in captures of 
tobacco budworm moths and 4 peaks in captures of bollworms. 
Wild geranium and crimson clover supported the first 2 generations 
of tobacco budworms and bollworms. Velvetleaf supported the 1st 
to 3rd generations of budworms. Corn and soybeans supported the 
2nd and 3rd generations of bollworms. Plots of weather records 
showed that the low air and soil temperatures during December 
1994-February 1995 were unusually warm. The lowest average air 
temperature was 35°F, occurring in January, and the lowest average 
soil temperature was 46°F also in January 1995. Temperature of 
soil at depth of 2 in. dropped to the low of 31°F only during nights 


of 16-17 February. Rainfall through the winter months was typical 
for the Delta area until the last of June. From 10 July to the end of 
the growing-season, rainfall amounts were far below average, and 
daytime temperatures averaged 5 to 6 degrees above normal 
reaching 100°F or more during some days in July, August, and 
September. High temperatures and little rainfall resulted in drought 
conditions during the cotton growing season, and there generally 
was a shortage of vegetation and blooms that would support high 
populations of budworms or bollworms. Cotton development was 
stressed during the 3 months critical for square and boll formation. 
Peak numbers of tobacco budworms and bollworms captured in late 
August and September averaged 100 to 150 moths/trap/night lower 
than in previous years. These moderate capture levels were 
attributed to the scarcity of vegetation and blooms preferred by both 
budworms and bollworms, and this shortage was undoubtedly 
caused by the drought conditions. (D. E. Hendricks) 


Evaluations were continued of twelve insect resistant soybean 
genotypes with different maturity dates to determine if resistance 
levels decrease during the fruiting phase or if later maturing 
genotypes develop higher levels of resistance. All genotypes have 
essentially the same level of resistance before fruiting. After the 
onset of fruiting the later maturing genotypes appear to have a 
higher level of resistance than earlier maturing genotypes. The 
studies are being conducted in a large field cage utilizing laboratory- 
reared insects and are to be repeated for several seasons. 
(L. Lambert) 


Studies were continued to evaluate the USDA-ARS soybean 
germplasm collection for resistance to soybean looper and 
velvetbean caterpillar. In field cage evaluations of 1200 accessions, 
several genotypes were identified with high levels of resistance to 
foliar feeding by soybean looper or velvetbean caterpillar. The 
resistant accessions will be further evaluated and used in a breeding 
effort to develop soybean cultivars with high levels of resistance to 
insects. (L. Lambert) 


15 


Studies were continued to determine the influence of irrigation of 
soybean on the development of soybean looper populations and the 
subsequent impact on yield. Due to heavy rains during critical 
periods, no data were obtained. (L. Lambert, L. G. Heatherly) 


Studies were continued on the inheritance and development of 
resistance to foliar feeding insects in soybean and to develop high 
yielding, insect resistant, group IV & V soybean cultivars. All 
breeding lines were moved ahead one generation. (L. Lambert, 
J. Tyler) 


Continued to develop optical and acoustical studies for determining 
behavior of soybean damaging insects. Equipment critical to 
conducting these studies has been obtained. (L. Lambert) 


Conducted a study to evaluate a gonad-specific virus of the corn 
earworm. This study is to be repeated. (L. Lambert, A. Raina) 


Initiated research to identify resistance in cotton to foliar feeding by 
beet armyworm. This study will require two or more seasons to 
complete. (L. Lambert, W. R. Meredith) 


Participated in annual evaluation of the Regional Host Plant 
Resistance Nursery of soybean for resistance to foliar feeding 
insects. Several genotypes in the nursery exhibited high levels of 
resistance to foliar feeding insects. (L. Lambert) 


Spray table and small plot studies were conducted with Provado 
(Bayer) and Fipronil (Rhone Poulenc) on tarnished plant bugs and 
boll weevils. Three formulations of Fipronil showed excellent activity 
on both plant bugs and boll weevils in spray table tests. Small plot 
tests indicated that Fipronil (two formulations) and Provado were 
highly effective on a resistant population of plant bugs. 
(W. P. Scott, G. L. Snodgrass) 


A large field plot study to compare methods of sampling (sweep net, 
drop cloth, and visual) and thresholds recommended in the Insect 
Control Guide were evaluated in Sure Grow 501. Extremely low 
populations of plant bugs occurred in 1995. (W. P. Scott, 
G. L. Snodgrass) 


A large field plot study to evaluate seed, in-furrow and sidedress 
treatments on early season insect populations and yield was 
evaluated. Heavy populations of the cotton aphid were present in 
most plots by June 30. Temik in-furrow and sidedress (0.60 + 1.5 


lbs Al/acre) was the most effective treatment-in reducing aphid 
populations. Highest yields were observed in Temik in-furrow and 
Temik in-furrow + sidedress treatments. No yield response was 
observed in either Payload in-furrow or Payload in-furrow + 
sidedress treatment. (W. P. Scott) 


The third year of a research project was conducted to determine the 
utility of a trap crop system designed to intercept migrating stinkbug 
species as they move from soybean and other host plants into 
pecan orchards. Results from the 1993 tests showed that: (1) the 
percent of pecans damaged by stinkbugs decreased significantly 
with increasing distance into the pecan orchard from the soybean 
field; (2) sweep net sampling for stinkbug density in pecan trees is 
inefficient; (3) cultural characteristics of purple hull pea (cowpea) are 
less desirable than hill pea due to the short window of time during 
which it is attractive to stinkbugs. Hill pea provided an attractive 
trap crop for the migrating stinkbugs for a longer period of time than 
did the purple hull pea. However, field pea is not commercially 
available. In both the 1994 and 1995 seasons, speckled pea (which 
is commercially available and has the same desirable cultural 
characteristics as hill pea), was planted in a continuous strip along 
the edge of a pecan orchard which borders a soybean field. Only 
half of the border was planted to peas (treated plot), while the other 
half remained fallow (check plot). Monitoring of vegetative and fruit 
phenology in both the soybeans and peas was performed in 1995 
and indicated that the peas continued to produce attractive pods 
until first frost, which coincided quite well with pecan harvest (mid- 
November). Population density of several stinkbug species was 
monitored in the soybeans and peas. Sweep net sampling yielded 
less than satisfactory results in 1994 when compared to the drop 
cloth method. In 1995, the drop cloth method enabled detection of 
peak stinkbug immigration periods into the peas, as well as 
monitoring of the development of their offspring. Control of 
stinkbugs within the peas was _ investigated during 1995. 
Applications of a mixture of Sevin and Phaser were applied when 
the late instar stinkbugs reached a high proportion of the total 
population based upon our twice-weekly drop cloth monitoring within 
the peas. The objective was to kill the offspring of the immigrating 
stinkbugs prior to their development of wings and their potential 
emigration out of the trap crop and into the test orchard. Pre- and 
post-treatment monitoring of stinkbug population levels indicated an 
acceptable level of stinkbug control. The 1994 nut harvest yielded 
little or no measure of trap crop efficiency based upon nut damage 
due to the lack of nuts available at harvest. This resulted from the 
extremely large numbers of birds which immigrated into the orchard 


Le) 


approximately 2-3 weeks prior to harvest and removed what would 
have otherwise been an adequate crop for evaluation of stinkbug 
damage. In 1995, however, nuts were harvested earlier by hand 
picking immediately prior to and during early shuck split. This was 
designed to acquire nuts prior to the immigration of birds into the 
orchard. Although statistical analysis has not as yet been 
performed, average stinkbug damage in the trap crop area (% 
whole nuts & % kernels with stinkbug feeding) was reduced by ca. 
44-56% (number of stinkbug feeding sites on the kernels were also 
reduced by ca.64%) when compared to the non-trap crop control 
area. Therefore, results are very encouraging. Effort was made in 
the development of an improved method for evaluating stinkbug 
damage and results appear promising. Efforts are also in progress 
to relate this more accurate measure of stinkbug damage to the 
damage estimate methods currently utilized by growers, buyers, and 
processors. This should enable a more accurate and fair measure 
of damaged nuts. Finally, the 1995 tests supported the 1993 data 
in showing that the percent of pecans damaged by stinkbugs 
decreased significantly with increasing distance into the pecan 
orchard from the soybean field. This information should prove 
useful in the monitoring and/or controlling of stinkbugs, where 
border trees may be utilized as a “trap crop” and spot treated. The 
1995 tests also supported the 1993 data in showing a certain level 
of cultivar preference by the stinkbugs. (M. T. Smith, 
G. L. Snodgrass, T. Jenkins, B. Horton, M. Hughs) 


Research was continued on the evaluation of the hickory 
shuckworm sex pheromone formulation and the development of 
guidelines for its proper use. All tests are being conducted at three 
locations across the pecan belt of North America in order to obtain 
results under different environmental conditions, management 
systems and shuckworm pressure: (1) Camargo, Mexico represents 
an arid dessert environment in which irrigation is essential but 
limited, where pesticides are utilized under a narrow profit margin, 
and where shuckworm populations can build to enormous levels; (2) 
the Mississippi Delta orchard represents a hot and humid 
environment where irrigation is desirable but is not present, where 
the orchard is maintained under a biological control, non-pesticidal 
management program, and where shuckworm populations are high 
in early season and relatively low to intermediate in late season, and 
(3) the central Georgia orchard also represents a hot and humid 
environment where irrigation is desirable but is present, where the 
orchard is under a more intensive management program, and where 
shuckworm populations tend to be high in early season and quite 
variable in late season. Results from the preliminary field studies 


in 1993 indicated that the hickory shuckworm may not be uniformly 
distributed within a pecan orchard. Therefore, more definitive 
investigations were performed in 1994 and 1995 with respect to the 
spatial and seasonal distribution of the hickory shuckworm moth 
within pecan orchards as determined by pheromone trap catch. 
Although data collection is still in progress at the time of this report, 
this new information will be used to determine the appropriate time 
to initiate and terminate shuckworm monitoring, as well as the 
appropriate number of pheromone traps per unit area that will 
provide a reliable estimate of moth presence and density. Weather 
data are also being collected at each site in order to correlate 
shuckworm population trends with key climatic parameters. 
Eventually, population level thresholds, which undoubtedly vary as 
a function of nut phenology, will be developed. [M. T. Smith, 
Carroll Yonce (USDA-ARS), Salvador Galindo (pecan grower), 
Jeff White & Steve Whitesides (Ecogen)] 


Preliminary mating disruption investigations of hickory shuckworm 
were initiated in 1994. Two formulations of the disruptant were 
prepared: spirals and a sprayable. Development of a suitable 
sprayable formulation of the disruptant was obtained in 1994. 
However, due to the very low shuckworm population levels in the 
test orchards during 1994, coupled with the suspect pheromone lure 
formulation, mating disruption efficacy data from 1994 were 
questionable. Mating disruption tests conducted in 1995 utilized the 
spirals. Although data have not been analyzed to date, the data 
appear to strongly indicate that it is possible to shut down 
pheromone trap attractancy to male moths by the deployment of 
mating disruption spirals in the upper and lower areas of the pecan 
tree canopy. This occurred at all three test orchards, which were 
under differing shuckworm population pressures. Data were also 
obtained in an “Aging” study of the mating disruption spirals in order 
to determine the expected longevity of their efficacy. Analysis is in 
progress at the time of this report. Field studies will be repeated in 
1996, but with the additional objective of improving the method of 
application/deployment of the mating disruptant, as well as methods 
to minimize its cost. This will include the evaluation of a sprayable 
formulation relative to the traditional spirals. [M. T. Smith, Carroll 
Yonce (USDA-ARS), Salvador Galindo (pecan grower), Jeff 
White & Steve Whitesides (Ecogen)] 


Results from the 1993 pheromone formulation field studies provided 
evidence suggesting increased attractancy of the commercial lure 
for shuckworm by the addition of one of the two new compounds 
isolated in 1992. The 1994 field studies provided evidence that one 


19 


of the new formulations was significantly more attractive than the 
commercial lure. A new experimental procedure was also 
investigated in which each treatment was placed into every test tree. 
This appeared to offset the problems associated with shuckworm 
clumping within an orchard, while not resulting in problems 
associated with cross-contamination of formulations. The 1995 
formulation field studies have not as yet been analyzed. However, 
it appears that there was little difference in attractancy among the 
formulations tested. This discrepancy with our 1993-94 data may 
indicate that the degree of attractancy may be greatly influenced by 
population density, as well as the degree of clumping (non-random 
distribution) of the shuckworm. Very careful evaluation of all 
formulation data will be performed before research direction on 
formulations is pursued further. [M. T. Smith, G. Gries (Simon 
Fraser University), Carroll Yonce (USDA-ARS), Salvador Galindo 
(pecan grower)] 


Research on factors affecting silverleaf whitefly parasitoid efficacy 
and evaluation protocol was continued in 1995. Our earlier tests 
provided evidence for two climatic strains of Encarsia formosa (one 
from Greece and another from Egypt), the most widely utilized and 
commercially available parasitoid of whiteflies throughout the world. 
These studies clearly indicated the importance of searching for 
parasitoids which originate from areas with climates similar to the 
climates in the targeted areas for release or introduction. As a 
logical progression to these studies, investigations of the effect of 
host plant on parasitoid efficacy were initiated in 1995. These 
studies have expanded to include two additional strains of E. 
formosa (the commercial strain and the Beltsville strain), and have 
included a phylogenetically diverse group of economically important 
host plants: cotton, cabbage, tomato, bean, and cantaloupe, as well 
as hibiscus and poinsettia. Parasitoid biological parameters being 
measured include adult longevity, life long fecundity and percent 
parasitism, as well as parasitoid developmental rate and percent 
emergence. While Bemisia argentifolii 3rd instar nymphs are being 
evaluated, whitefly eggs and early instar nymphs are also being 
provided since these life stages are utilized as food by adult 
parasitoids. Host plant leaf area and hair density is being 
measured as potential factors which may affect searching efficacy 
of the adult parasitoids, and therefore the various biological 
parameters. These studies are in progress at the time of this report, 
and therefore comment on our findings would be premature. 
(M. T. Smith, M. Ciomperlik, J. Neal) 


20 


In concert with these parasitoid evaluations, and as a prerequisite 
to subsequent field evaluation and release programs, a survey of 
the whitefly and associated parasitoid species was initiated in 
Mississippi in 1995. Similar surveys have been conducted or are in 
progress in other states in the southern U.S. Much effort was made 
to establish and coordinate collection of whitefly infested sample 
leaves from throughout the state, with ARS, APHIS and the 
Mississippi State University Agricultural Extension Service (county 
agents) representing the principle participants. To date, whiteflies 
have been collected from 35 host plant species in 18 counties. 
Among the host plants are 2 field crops (cotton and soybean), 15 
vegetables, 11 ornamentals, 3 herbs, as well as 2 weeds. Although 
identifications are only tentative, whitefly species appear to include: 
bandedwinged whitefly, greenhouse whitefly, silverleaf whitefly, and 
sweetpotato whitefly. Parasitoids have been collected from 21 plant 
species in ca. 30% of the samples collected. Parasitoid 
identifications have not as yet begun due to the challenges 
associated with resource availability and taxonomic expertise. This 
survey will continue throughout the year and until at least December 
1996. (M. T. Smith, M. Allred, M. Ciomperlik, B. Layton, 
R. Snyder, S. Nakahara, G. Evans) 


Efforts were initiated on two additional fronts: (1) collection and 
preservation of specimens of the 4 E. formosa strains for genetic 
evaluation in cooperation with Drs. C. LeVesque and T. Perring 
(UCR); and collaborative efforts with Dr. Regina Vilarinho de 
Oliveira (EMBRAPA, CENARGEN, Brasilia, Brazil), where the 
primary object will be to explore for and evaluate New World 
parasitoid species in Brazil for control of B. argentifolii. 
(M. T. Smith) 


Cotton fields located in 1600 square miles of the Delta were 
sampled weekly for bollworm and tobacco budworm eggs and larvae 
during June and July 1995. The fields were located in 4 areas 
(each ca. 400 square miles) of which 3 areas were checks. The 
fourth area received an aerial application of an insect virus to all 
wild host plants in the area in early May to kill first generation 
bollworm and tobacco budworm larvae found on them. Each of the 
4 areas were divided into quadrants and the location of cotton fields 
in each quadrant recorded. Fields were sampled by whole plant 
examinations in young cotton. Sampling changed to visual searches 
of terminals and fruit and foliage in the upper half of each plant 
when the cotton began to square. Each field was sampled by 2 
people and in each sample 10 plants were examined. Fields were 
classified as small, medium, or large and 20 samples (10 per 


at 


observer) were taken in small fields while 40 samples (20 per 
observer) were taken in medium and large fields. All eggs and 
larvae found were taken back to the laboratory for rearing and 
species identification. In each check area, 5 fields were picked at 
random from each quadrant (20 total) each week and sampled. In 
the single treated area 6 fields (7 in one quadrant, 25 total) were 
picked at random each week from each quadrant and sampled. 
Data entry from this test has been completed and checked for 
errors. This entailed entry of approximately 20,000 lines of data. 
Statistical analysis was completed in October. No significant 
reduction in bollworm or tobacco budworm populations in the treated 
area was found. Populations of both pest species were low in the 
treated and untreated areas which made the test hard to evaluate 
statistically. (G. L. Snodgrass, M. R. Bell, D. D. Hardee) 


A survey of the Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi Delta was 
conducted in the spring (April-May) and fall (September-October) to 
determine how widespread pyrethroid resistance was in tarnished 
plant bug populations in the Delta. At least 50 adult bugs from each 
of 71 locations were collected from wild hosts and tested for 
resistance in the spring, while 72 (mostly the same locations as the 
spring) locations were sampled in the fall. The bugs were exposed 
in glass vials (2 adults per vial) treated with 15 ug of technical grade 
permethrin for 3 hours after which mortality was determined. In the 
spring survey, 30 locations had susceptible populations (mortalities 
> 90%), while in the fall survey only 11 locations had susceptible 
populations. The resistant populations were found scattered 
throughout the Delta. The greater number of locations with resistant 
populations in the fall showed the effect of the selection pressure 
exerted on plant bug populations in cotton with pyrethroids during 
the growing season. (G. L. Snodgrass, W. P. Scott) 


On 2 June 1995, a single adult male tarnished plant bug was found 
that possessed unusual bright red eyes (as compared to normal 
dark red almost black eyes). To investigate this unusual condition, 
the male was mated with 7 virgin females. This mating produced 78 
F, adults all with normal eyes. The F,’s were allowed to mate with 
each other and produced 703 F, offspring of which 60 were red 
eyed (37 males and 23 females). The presence of red eyed F, 
females eliminated the red-eyed trait as being sex-linked and 
recessive (if it was, no red-eyed females would be produced). 
Various crosses between red eyed and normal eyed F, adults are 
being evaluated in an effort to determine the genetic basis of the red 
eyed trait. In addition, all adults and nymphs collected in the 
resistance survey on wild hosts at 72 locations in the fall in the 


oe 


Delta (discussed previously) were examined for red eyes to see if 
this trait occurred in nature. A total of 6,661 adults and 4,126 
nymphs were examined for red eyes, but none was found. 
(G. L. Snodgrass) 


A large plot field test designed to evaluate treatment thresholds 
currently recommended by the Mississippi Cooperative Extension 
Service for the control of tarnished plant bugs in cotton, was 
conducted on a growers farm near Indianola, MS. Unfortunately, 
plant bug numbers found in the plots during June and July were too 
low to properly evaluate the test. (G. L. Snodgrass, W. P. Scott) 


Extramural 


Continued in cooperative studies to determine the significance of 
sound production of fire ants. Several types of sound generated by 
fire ants have been identified. (L. Lambert, R. Hickling) 


23 


B. INDICATORS OF PROGRESS: 


1. 


Publications (Published, In Press, Accepted) 


Bell, M. R. 1995 Production and application of a nuclear 
polyhedrosis virus in the large area management of Heliothis 
virescens and Helicoverpa zea _ (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). National 
Annual Meeting of the Entomological Society of America, December, 
1995, Dallas, TX. (Abstract) 


Bell, M. R. 1995. Effects of an entomopathogenic nematode and 
a nuclear polyhedrosis virus on emergence of Heliothis virescens 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). J. Entomol. Sci. 30: 243-250. 


Bell, M. R. and D. D. Hardee. 1995. Tobacco budworm and cotton 
bollworm: Methodology for virus production and application in large- 
area management trials, pp. 857-859. Proc. Beltwide Cotton Prod. 
Conf. 


Burris, E., B. R. Leonard, C. A. White, J. B. Graves, and 
W. P. Scott. 1995. Evaluation of Fipronil and Imidacloprid (Gaucho 
480 and Admire 2F) applied in-furrow in cotton, pp. 918-920. Proc. 
Beltwide Cotton Prod. Conf. 


Elzen, G. W. 1995. Cotton aphid control, 1993A. Arthropod 
Management Tests. 20: 195-196. 


Elzen, G. W. 1995. Cotton aphid control, 1993B. Arthropod 
Management Tests. 20: 197. 


Elzen, G. W. 1995. Heliothis response to conventional insecticides 
and B.t.’s. Proc. 41st Annual Mississippi Insect Control Conf., pp. 
13-14. (Abstract). 


Elzen, G. W. 1995. Trends in Heliothis resistance, 1994. Proc. 
Beltwide Cotton Prod. Res. Conf., pp. 964-967. 


Graves, J. B., G. W. Elzen, M. B. Layton, R. H. Smith, and 
M. L. Wall. 1995. Budworm/bollworm management: Insecticide 
resistance and population trends in the mid-south. Proc. Beltwide 
Cotton Prod. Res. Conf., pp. 136-140. 


24 


Hardee, D. D. 1995. Use of novel chemicals in IPM. Proc. United 
Nation’s Food and Agriculture and U.N. Environmental Program 
Panel of Experts on Integrated Pest Management, Rome, Italy (In 
Press). 


Hardee, D. D. 1995. Resistance management in the Mid South -- 
cotton aphid: current status as a pest of cotton. Proc. Crop 
Management Seminar, Cotton, Inc., (In Press). 


Hardee, D. D., and M. R. Bell. 1995. Area-wide management of 
Heliothis/Helicoverpa in the delta of Mississippi -- 1994 program. 
World Cotton Res. Conf., Brisbane, Australia. (In Press). 


Hardee, D. D., and G. A. Herzog. 1995. 48th Annual Conference 
Report on Cotton Insect Research and Control, pp. 725-744. Proc. 
Beltwide Cotton Prod. Res. Conf. 


Hardee, D. D., and E. B. Mitchell. 1995. Boll weevil, Anthonomus 
grandis Boheman: A summary of research on behavior as affected 
by chemical communication. /n A Centennial Symposium on the 
Cotton Boll Weevil. USDA, ARS (In Press). 


Hardee, D. D., A. A. Weathersbee, Ill, J. M. Gillespie, G. L. 
Snodgrass, and A. R. Quisumbing. 1995. Performance of trap 
designs, lures, and kill strips for the boll weevil (Coleoptera: 
Curculionidae). J. Econ. Entomol. (In Press). 


Hendricks, D. E., D. W. Hubbard, and D. D. Hardee. 1995. 
Occurrence of beet armyworm moths in the lower Mississippi River 
Delta as indicated by numbers caught in traps in 1994. Southwest. 
Entomol. 20: 157-164. 


Hendricks, D. E., D. W. Hubbard, and D. D. Hardee. 1995. 
Occurrence of beet armyworm moths in cotton-growing areas of the 
lower Mississippi River Delta as indicated by numbers caught in 
pheromone traps from April to November, 1994, 802-804. Proc. 
Beltwide Cotton Prod. Res. Conf. 


Hendricks, D. E. and D. W. Hubbard. 1995. Abundance of beet 
armyworm moths in the cotton-growing region of the lower 
Mississippi river delta of Mississippi as indicated by captures in 
pheromone traps-April to November, 1994. Proc. 41st Insect 
Control Conference, Miss. State, MS pp.10-12 (Abstract). (In 
Press). 


25 


Hendricks, D. E. and D. W. Hubbard. 1995. Abundance of beet 
armyworm moths in the cotton-growing region of the lower 
Mississippi river delta of Mississippi as indicated by captures in 
pheromone traps, Dec. 94 to November, 1995. Proc. 42nd Insect 
Control Conference, Miss. State, MS. (Abstract). (In Press). 


Herzog, G. A., D. D. Hardee, and M. R. Williams. 1995. Highlights 
of the 48th Annual Cotton Insect Research and Control Conference., 
744-745. Proc. Beltwide Cotton Prod. Res. Conf. 


Kanga, L. H. B., F. W. Plapp, Jr., M. L. Wall, M. A. Karner, 
R. L. Huffman, T. W. Fuchs, G. W. Elzen, and J. L. Martinez-Carillo. 
1995. Monitoring for tolerance to insecticides in boll weevil 
populations (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) from Texas, Arkansas, 
Oklahoma, Mississippi, and Mexico. J. Econ. Entomol. 88: 198-204. 


Kanga, L. H. B., F. W. Plapp, Jr., G. W. Elzen, M. L. Wall, and 
J. D. Lopez, Jr. 1995. Monitoring for resistance to 
organophosphorus, carbamate, and cyclodiene insecticides in 
tobacco budworm adults (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). J. Econ. 
Entomol. 88: 1144-1149. 


Kanga, L. H. B., F. W. Plapp, Jr., M. L. Wall, and G. W. Elzen. 
1995. A four year study of resistance to organophosphorus, 
carbamate, and cyclodiene insecticides in the tobacco budworm in 
Texas and Arkansas. Southwest. Entomol. 20: 237-246. 


King, E. G., R. J. Coleman, L. Wood, L. Wendel, S. Greenberg, 
A. Scott, J. Roberson, and D. D. Hardee. 1995. Suppression of the 
boll weevil in commercial cotton by augmentative releases of a wasp 
parasite, Catolaccus grandis., pp. 26-30. Proc. Beltwide Prod. Res. 
Conf. Addendum. 


Lambert, L. 1995. Registration Certification of insect resistant 
soybean germplasm D89-9121. Received (1995) certification and 
assigned registration No. Gp-166 from Crop Science Society of 
America. 


Lambert, Lavone and Jeff Tyler. 1995. An appraisal of insect 
resistant soybeans. ESA Thomas Say Publ. Series. (In Press). 


Laster, M. L. 1995. Proboscidea louisianica: An unreported host 
of Heliothis virescens (Lepidoptera: Noctudiae). J. Entomol. Sci. 
30: 429-433. 


26 


Laster, M. L., and D. D. Hardee. 1995. Intermating compatibility 
between North American Helicoverpa zea and Heliothis armigera 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) from Russia. J. Econ. Entomol. 88: 77-80. 


Laster, M. L., and C. F. Sheng. 1995.. Search for hybrid sterility for 
Helicoverpa zea in crosses between the North American H. zea and 
H. armigera (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) from China. J. Econ. 
Entomol. 88: 1288-1291. 


Martin, S. H., G. W. Elzen, J. B. Graves, S. Micinski, B. R. Leonard, 
and E. Burris. 1995. Toxicological responses of tobacco budworm 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) from Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas to 
selected insecticides. J. Econ. Entomol. 88: 505-511. 


Roehrdanz, R. L., J. D. Lopez, J. Loera, and D. E. Hendricks. 1994. 
Limited mitochondrial DNA Polymorphism in North American 
populations of Heliothis virescens (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae). Annals 
Entomol. Soc. Amer. 87: 856-866. 


Scott, W. P., and G. L. Snodgrass. Efficacy of Fipronil and Provado 
against tarnished plant bugs in cotton, 1994. J. Arthropod 
Management Tests. (In Press). 


Smith, M. T., and D. D. Hardee. Influence of fungicides on 
development of an entomopathogenic fungus (Zygomycetes: 
Neozygitaceae) in the cotton aphid (Homoptera: Aphididae). 
Environ. Entomol. (Accepted 5/1/95). 


Smith, M. T. 1995. Evaluation of exotic parasitoid species from 
areas of Bemisia tabaci origin, p. 139. /n Henneberry, T. J., 
N. C. Toscano, R. M. Faust, and J. R. Coppedge (eds.), Silverleaf 
whitefly (Formerly sweetpotato whitefly, strain B): 1995 Supplement 
to the 5-year National Research and Action Plan. USDA 1995-2, 
305 pp. 


Smith, M. T. 1995. Recent advances in hickory shuckworm sex 
pheromone research. Proc. Southeastern Pecan Growers 
Association, 88: 52-59. 


Smith, M. T. 1995. Insect pest management research notes. 
Pecan Grower 7: 32. 


Smith, M. T. 1995. Aphid-Host Plant Interactions. Proc. Second 
National Pecan Workshop. (In Press). 


af 


Snodgrass, G. L., and G. W. Elzen. 1995. Insecticide resistance 
in a tarnished plant bug population in cotton in the Mississippi Delta. 
Southwest. Entomol. 20: 317-323. 


‘Snodgrass, G. L., and G. W. Elzen. 1995. Insecticide resistance 
in a tarnished plant bug population in cotton in the Mississippi Delta. 
Proc. Beltwide Cotton Prod. Res. Conf., pp. 975-977. 


Snodgrass, G. L. A glass vial bioassay for detecting insecticide 
resistance in adult tarnished plant bugs (Heteroptera: Miridae). J. 
Econ. Entomol. (Accepted 14 May 1995) 


Snodgrass, G.L. Insecticide resistance in a field population of the 
tarnished plant bug (Heteroptera: Miridae) in cotton in the 
Mississippi Delta. J. Econ. Entomol. (Accepted 14 May 1995). 


Snodgrass, G. L. and G. W. Elzen. 1995. Insecticide resistance in 
a tarnished plant bug population in cotton in the Mississippi Delta. 
Proc. 41st Annual Mississippi Insect Control Conf., p.19 (Abstract). 


Snodgrass, G. L. 1995. A close look at the plant bug. Crop 
Protection Management Magazine. March 1995, p. 8. 


Snodgrass, G. L. and W. P. Scott. 1995. Seasonal changes in 
pyrethroid resistance in tarnished plant bug populations in the 
Mississippi Delta. Proc. Cotton Inc. Crop Management Seminar, 
Oct.30-31, Memphis, TN. 


Solomon, W., L. Lambert, and M. R. Bell. 1995. Susceptibility of 
five defoliators of soybean to celery looper nuclear polyhedrosis 
virus. J. Entomol. Sci. (In Press). 


Thompson, Tommy E., W. D. Goff, M. Nesbitt, L. J. Grauke, 
B. W. Wood, M. Smith, and M. T. Smith. 1995. Breeding scab 
resistance cultivars. Proc. Southeastern Pecan Growers Association 
88: 162-167. 


Tillman, P. G., and L. Lambert. 1995. Influence of soybean 
pubescence on incidence of the corn earworm and the parasitoid, 
Microplitis croceipes. Southwest. Entomol. 20: 181-185. 


28 


Weathersbee, A. A., Ill, D. D. Hardee, and W. R. Meredith, Jr. 
1995. Differences in yield response to cotton aphids (Homoptera: 
Aphididae) between smooth-leaf and hairy-leaf isogenic cotton lines. 
J. Econ. Entomol. 88: 749-754. 


Wood, B. W., J. A. Payne, and M. T. Smith. 1995. Suppressing 
pecan aphid populations using potassium nitrate plus surfactant 
sprays. HortScience. 30: 513-516. 


In Manuscript: 


Bell, M. R., and D. D. Hardee. Six years of area-wide management 
of bollworm/budworm with pathogens - what does it mean and 
where do we go from here. Proc. 1996 Beltwide Cotton Prod. Conf. 
(In Preparation). 


Bell, M. R., and Glynn Tillman. Effect of nuclear polyhedrosis virus 
on field populations of the beet armyworm in cotton. J. Econ. 
Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Bryan, W. W., D. A. Herbert, Jr., and D. D. Hardee. Evaluation of 
three oviposition methods, three different host densities, and 
mortality factors in a Microplitis croceipes rearing program. (In 
Preparation). 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. The effect of four soil types on 
depth bored by Microplitis croceipes parasitized and nonparasitized 
Helicoverpa zea larvae in the laboratory. (In Preparation). 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. Emergence of Microplitis 
croceipes and its host, Helicoverpa zea from four soil types in the 
laboratory. (In Preparation). 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. The effect of two soil types and 
cotton plants on depth bored by Microplitis croceipes parasitized 
and nonparasitized Helicoverpa zea larvae in the greenhouse. (In 
Preparation). 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. The effect of three soil types 
and cotton plants on depth bored by Microplitis croceipes 
parasitized and nonparasitized Helicoverpa zea in the greenhouse. 
(In Preparation). 


29 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. Effect of soil tillage practices 
on Microplitis croceipes cocoon location in the field. (In 
Preparation) 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. Opportunities for manipulation 
of Microplitis croceipes in first generation Helicoverpa zea: A 
survey of wild and cultivated early season host plants in Virginia. 
(In Preparation). 


Elzen, G. W. Changes in insecticide tolerance in tobacco budworm 
in 1995. Proc. 42nd Mississippi Insect Control Conf. (Abstract). 
(Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Development of resistance to multiple class of 
insecticides in Heliothis virescens (F.) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) 
populations in the U.S. mid-south. Proc. XX International Congress 
of Entomology. (Abstract). (Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Control of tarnished plant bug, 1994. Arthropod 
Management Tests. (Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Cotton aphid control, 1994. Arthropod Management 
Tests. (Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Ovicidal activity trial, 1995. Arthropod Management 
Tests. (Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Cotton aphid control, 1995. Arthropod Management 
Tests. (Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Control of tarnished plant bug, 1995. Arthropod 
Management Tests. (Submitted). 


Elzen, G. W. Changes in tolerance to insecticides in tobacco 
budworm populations, 1995. Proc. 1996 Beltwide Cotton Prod. Res. 
Conf. (In Preparation). 


Elzen, G. W._ Evaluation of beet armyworm (Lepidoptera: 
Noctuidae) tolerance to insecticides and response to IGR's. 
Southwest. Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Elzen, G. W. Laboratory evaluation of tarnished plant bug tolerance 
to insecticides, 1995. Arthropod Management Tests. (In 
Preparation). 


30 


Hardee, D. D., and W. W. Bryan. 1996. Influence of Bt-transgenic 
and nectariless cotton on insect populations, with special emphasis 
on the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (P. de B) (Heteroptera: 
Miridae). (In Preparation). 


Hardee, D. D., and M. L. Laster. 1996. Current status of backcross 
sterility in Heliothis virescens (F.) -- a progress report. Submitted 
to Southwest. Entomol. 


Landram, D., M. T. Smith and W. Hays. Behavioral modeling of 
Encarsia formosa as a parasitoid of Bemisia argentifolii (Bellows 
and Perring) under different temperature regimes. J. Insect 
Behavior. (In Preparation). 


Laster, M. L., D. D. Hardee, and J. C. Schneider. 1995. Heliothis 
virescens (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) suppression by sterile backcross 
releases. Submitted to Southw. Entomol. 


Scott, W. P., G. L. Snodgrass, and Donnie Adams. Mortality of 
tarnished plant bugs and boll weevils exposed to Provado and 
different formulations of Fipronil. Proc. 1996 Beltwide Cotton Prod. 
Conf. (In Preparation). 


Scott, W. P., and F. Cooke. Cost and changes of cotton insect 
control in the Mississippi Delta. Proc. 1996 Beltwide Cotton Prod. 
Conf. (In Preparation). 


Scott, W. P., G. L. Snodgrass, R. Shaw, and Donnie Adams. 1995. 
Efficacy of recommended insecticides with/without Buctril herbicide 
for various cotton pests. J. Entomol. Sci. (Submitted Sept. 1995). 


Smith, M. T., and R. Hennessey. Biological evaluation of two 
strains of Encarsia formosa as parasitoids of Bemisia argentifolii 
(Bellows and Perring) under different temperature regimes. Environ. 
Entomol. (Submitted). 


Smith, M. T., S. Galindo, and C. Yonce. Spatial distribution and 
seasonal dynamics of the hickory shuckworm (Cydia caryana). 
Environ. Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T. Spatial distribution and movement of stinkbugs in 
pecan. J. Econ. Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T. Evaluation methods for stinkbug damage in pecan. J. 
Econ. Entomol. (In Preparation). 


31 


Smith, M. T., and D. D. Hardee. Seasonal relationship among 
cotton aphid (Aphis gossypii Glover), the entomopathogenic fungus 
Neozygites fresenii (Nowakowski) Batko, and the parasite 
Lysiphlebus_ testaceipes (Cresson). Environ. Entomol. (In 
Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., D. Landram, and W. Hays. Behavioral evaluation of 
Encarsia formosa as a parasitoid of Bemisia argentifolii (Bellows 
and Perring) under different temperature regimes. J. Insect 
Behavior. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., R. F. Severson, G. W. Chapman, and R. J. Horvat. 
Volatiles of the leaflet, rachis and nut of pecan, Carya illinoensis: 
Potential role in habitat and host finding of pecan herbivore and 
beneficial insect species. J. Chem. Ecol. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., C. C. Reilly, and B. W. Wood. Developmental and 
reproductive performance of the blackmargined aphid (Monellia 
caryella Fitch), the yellow pecan aphid (Monelliopsis pecanis 
Bissell), and the black pecan aphid (Melanocallis caryaefoliae 
Davis), on the North American species of the Juglandaceae: A study 
of aphid-plant coevolution. Environ. Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., R. F. Severson, C. C. Reilly, and B. W. Wood. 
Host-plant selection by the blackmargined aphid (Monellia caryella 
Fitch), the yellow pecan aphid (Monelliopsis pecanis Bissell), and 
the black pecan aphid (Melanocallis caryaefoliae Davis), on the 
North American species of the Juglandaceae: A comparative study 
of foliar cuticular chemistry and host-plant recognition. J. Chem. 
Ecol. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., C. C. Reilly, and B. W. Wood. Developmental and 
reproductive performance of the blackmargined aphid (Monellia 
caryella Fitch), the yellow pecan aphid (Monelliopsis pecanis 
Bissell), and the black pecan aphid (Melanocallis caryaefoliae 
Davis), on a select group of pecan cultivars. Environ. Entomol. (In 
Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., R. F. Severson, C. C. Reilly, and B. W. Wood. 
Host-plant selection by the blackmargined aphid (Monellia caryella 
Fitch), the yellow pecan aphid (Monelliopsis pecanis Bissell), and 
the black pecan aphid (Melanocallis caryaefoliae Davis), on a 
select group of pecan cultivars. J. Chem. Ecol. (In Preparation). 


a2 


Smith, M. T., R. F. Severson, and R. C. Gueldner. Seasonal 
dynamics of the surface chemistry of pecan leaves, rachis and nut. 
J. Agric. Food Chem. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., R. F. Severson, and R. C. Gueldner. Seasonal 
dynamics of the whole tissue chemistry of pecan leaves, rachis and 
nut. J. Agric. Food Chem. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., C. C. Reilly, B. W. Wood, and R. Paul. SEM analysis 
of leaf surface morphology of the Juglandaceae native to North 
America: Implications in host plant resistance to pecan aphids. 
Environ. Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Smith, M. T., C. C. Reilly, B. W. Wood, and R. Paul. SEM analysis 
of leaf surface morphology of the a select group of pecan cultivars: 
Implications in host plant resistance to pecan aphids. Environ. 
Entomol. (In Preparation). 


Snodgrass, G. L. Distribution of the tarnished plant bug 
(Heteroptera: Miridae) within cotton plants. Environ. Entomol. (In 
Preparation). 


Snodgrass, G. L. and W. P. Scott. Pyrethroid resistance in 
overwintered and first generation tarnished plant bug populations in 
the Mississippi River Delta. Proc. 1996 Beltwide Cotton Prod. and 
Research Conf. (In Peer Review). 


Snodgrass, G. L. Sweep net sampling of the tarnished plant bug 
(Heteroptera: Miridae) in cotton. Environ. Entomol. (In Peer 
Review). 


Tillman, P. Glynn, Jon L. Roberson, and D. D. Hardee. 1995. 
Disposable cardboard box for rearing/release of Microplitis 
croceipes. Submitted to Southwest. Entomol. 


Presentations: 


Bell, M. R., and D. D. Hardee. "Tobacco budworm and cotton 
bollworm: Methodology for virus production and application in large- 
area management trials." Beltwide Cotton Insect Research and 
Control Conf., San Antonio, TX, January 1995. 


Bell, M. R. “Role of diseases in regulation of tobacco budworm 
population." Mississippi Tobacco Budworm Symposium, Mississippi 
State, MS, November 1995. 


33 


Bryan, W. W., and D. A. Herbert. '"Microplitis croceipes 
(Hymenoptera: Braconidae) for control of Helicoverpa zea 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) in soybean and cotton: Investigations for 
enhanced rearing practices, and opportunities for conservation and 
augmentation." Southeastern Branch ESA, Charleston, SC, March 
5-8, 1995. (Poster presentation). 


Bryan, W. W. and D. A. Herbert, Jr. “Survey of wild and 
cultivated early season host plants of Helicoverpa zea in Virginia." 
ESA National Conference, Las Vegas, NV, December 17-21, 
1995. (Poster presentation) 


Elzen, G. W. "Trends in Heliothis resistance, 1994." Beltwide 
Cotton Insect Research and Control Conf., San Antonio, TX, 
January 1995. 


Elzen, G. W. "Cotton pest resistance levels." Cotton Consultant 
Seminar, CIBA, Orange Beach, AL, February 1995. (Invitation). 


Elzen, G. W. “Heliothis resistance in Mississippi." Bayer Cotton 
Update, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. October 1995. (Invitation). 


Elzen, G. W. “Changes in insecticide tolerance in tobacco budworm 
in 1995." 42nd Mississippi Insect Control Conf., Mississippi State, 
MS, November 1995. 


Elzen, G. W. "Insecticide resistance - Mississippi Perspective." 
Mississippi Tobacco Budworm Symposium, Mississippi State, MS, 
November 1995. (Invitation). 


Elzen, G. W. "Efficacy of currently available insecticides against 
tobacco budworm." Cotton shortcourse, Entomology Session, 
Mississippi State, MS, December 1995. (Invitation). 


Hardee, D. D. "Update on ARS Research with emphasis on 
pathogens in tobacco budworms and beet armyworms," 22nd 
Meeting of Mississippi Agricultural Consultants Association, 
Mississippi State, MS, February 1995. (Invitation). 


Hardee, D. D. "Future changes -- Bt cotton, boll weevil eradication, 
insecticide resistance," ARS-MSU Symposium on Tarnished Plant 
Bug, Stoneville, MS, March 1995. (Invitation). 


34 


Hardee, D. D. "Chemical communication in the boll weevil," Lecture 
Series on the Significance of the Boll Weevil to Science and 
Society," Texas A&M Univ., College Station, TX, April 1995. 
(Invitation). 


Hardee, D. D. "Resistance management in the mid-south -- cotton 
aphid: Current status as a pest of cotton. Cotton, Inc. Crop 
Management Seminar, Memphis, TN, October 1995 (Invitation). 


Hendricks, D. E., D. W. Hubbard and D. D. Hardee. 1995. 
"Occurrence of beet armyworm moths in the cotton-growing areas 
of the lower Mississippi river delta as indicated by numbers caught 
in pheromone traps from April to November, 1994." Beltwide Cotton 
Conferences, San Antonio, TX, January 1995. 


Hendricks, D. E. and D. W. Hubbard. 1995. "Abundance of beet 
armyworm moths in the cotton-growing region of the lower 
Mississippi river delta of Mississippi as indicated by captures in 
pheromone traps, Dec. 94 to November, 1995." 42nd Annual 
Mississippi Insect Control Conference, Miss. State, MS, November 
1995. 


Hendricks, D. E. 1995. Role of wild host plants supporting tobacco 
budworm populations after cotton harvest and mortality due to 
flooding in the springtime. Mississippi Tobacco Budworm 
Symposium, Miss. State, MS, November 1995. 


Hickling, R., and L. Lambert. "Sounds produced by imported fire 
ants." Imported Fire Ants Conference, San Antonio, TX, May 1995. 


Lambert, L. “Host plant resistance of soybean to insect damage." 
Department of Biology, Delta State University, Cleveland, MS, April, 
1995. 


Scott, W. P. "Review of ARS research on the tarnished plant bug." 
Tarnished Plant Bug Symposium, Stoneville, MS, March 30, 1995. 


Scott, W. P. "Effects of Provado in controlling tarnished plant bugs 
in small plots." Bayer Ag Company, Update on Result of Ag 
Products, Baton Rouge, LA, October 24, 1995. 


Smith, M. T., and R. D. Hennessey. "Evidence of two ecotypes of 
Encarsia formosa Gahan (Hymenoptera: Aphelinidae) parasitizing 
Bemisia argentifolii (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae) on Hibiscus." USDA- 
ARSThird Annual Review of the Silverleaf Whitefly National 
Research and Action Plan Meeting, San Diego, CA, January 1995. 


35 


Smith, M.. T. “Pecan insect pest management: Recent 
investigations of the hickory shuckworm sex pheromone." 88th 
Southeastern Pecan Growers Association Convention, Panama City, 
FL, March 1995. 


Smith, M. T. "An update of current pecan pest management 
research in Mississippi." Mississippi/Louisiana Pecan Growers 
Conference, Greenville, MS, June 1995. 


Smith, M. T., and R. D. Hennessey. "Evidence of two ecotypes of 
Encarsia formosa Gahan (Hymenoptera: Aphelinidae) parasitizing 
Bemisia argentifolii (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae) on Hibiscus." 42nd 
Annual Mississippi Insect Control Conf.,Mississippi State, MS, 
November 1995. 


Smith, M. T., and R. D. Hennessey. “Encarsia formosa Gahan 
(Hymenoptera: Aphelinidae) parasitizing Bemisia  argentifolii 
(Homoptera: Aleyrodidae): Behavioral evidence for two ecotypes. 
Entomological Society of America Meeting, Las Vegas, NV, 
December 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. and W. P. Scott. "Pyrethroid resistance in 
overwintered and first generation tarnished plant bug populations in 
the Mississippi River Delta." 42nd Annual Mississippi Insect 
Control Conference, Mississippi State, MS, November 13-15, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. "Contribution of spring host plants to tobacco 
budworm populations." Mississippi Tobacco Budworm Symposium. 
Mississippi State, MS, November 15-16, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. "“Pyrethroid resistance in tarnished plant bug 
populations in the Mississippi Delta." Seminar sponsored by Bayer 
Chemical Co., Baton Rouge, LA, October 23-25, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. and W. P. Scott. "Seasonal changes in pyrethroid 
resistance in tarnished plant bug populations in the Mississippi 
Delta." Cotton Incorporated Crop Management Seminar, Memphis, 
TN, October 30-31, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. and G. W. Elzen. "Insecticide resistance in a 
tarnished plant bug population in cotton in the Mississippi Delta." 
Beltwide Cotton Production and Research Conf., Jan. 12-14, 1995, 
San Antonio, TX (Poster). 


36 


Snodgrass, G. L. "Insecticidal control problems with the tarnished 
plant bug in cotton." Delta Agriculture Exposition, Cleveland, MS, 
January 24, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. "Insecticide resistance in the tarnished plant bug 
in cotton in the Mississippi Delta." 22nd Annual Meeting Mississippi 
Agricultural Consultants Association, Mississippi State, MS, 
February 6-7, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. "Biology and control of the tarnished plant bug in 
cotton in Mississippi." 8th Annual Independent Agricultural 
Consultants Meeting, Jackson, MS, February 24-26, 1995. 


Snodgrass, G. L. "Biology, behavior, and host plants of the 
tarnished plant bug." Tarnished Plant Bug Symposium, Delta 
Research and Extension Center, Stoneville, MS, March 30, 1995. 


Tillman, P. G., and W. P. Scott. "Susceptibility of Cotesia 
marginiventris to field rates of selected cotton insecticides. 42nd 
Annual Mississippi Insect Control Conf., Mississippi State, MS, 
November 14-15, 1995. 


37, 


IV. PLANNED RESEARCH CALENDAR YEAR 1996: 


A. 


NARRATIVE: 


ae 


In-House 


Plans for 1996 include investigating and possibly working toward 
implementation of a large-area pilot test program, with farmer 
participation, incorporating the application of an entomopathogenic 
virus on weeds within a large area of crop land in the Mississippi 
Delta. Two years of testing using a 20 mile diameter demonstrated 
positive results, and the farmers may now wish to proceed on to the 
next logical step - a larger area trial program. The primary duties 
of our unit in an expanded trial would be to contribute expertise and 
help conduct the test. If the farmers do not wish to invest in a larger 
trial area, a smaller test area may be used to investigate the 
interactions of combined management options to increase the level 
of control within large areas. (M. R. Bell, G. L. Snodgrass, 
D. D. Hardee) 


Examine the use of the nuclear polyhedrosis virus from the beet 
armyworm for control of the pest in various areas of the cotton belt, 
possibly increasing the effectiveness of control through formulations 
and application studies, as indicated in small trials in 1995. In 
conjunction with these studies, we will also investigate the options 
of obtaining EPA approval for a label of this, and possibly other, 
baculoviruses by ARS or another farm or research group. 
(M. R. Bell) 


As time and funding permit, studies on a new baculovirus having a 
broad host range (celery looper virus) will continue through 
laboratory bioassays against tobacco budworms, cotton bollworms, 
and other available insect hosts, as well as continued studies of the 
new virus having increased effectiveness against beet armyworms. 
(M. R. Bell) 


Continue study with evaluation of the effects of parasitization on 
lectin and catecholamne levels in corn earworm larvae. 
[O. A. Adeyeye (Duquesne University), W. W. Bryan] 


Conduct additional rearing studies using Microplitis croceipes and 
Helicoverpa zea. (W. W. Bryan) 


38 


Conduct field surveys for parasitoids of Helicoverpa/Heliothis spp., 
including early season hosts, Bt transgenic cotton, and non- 
transgenic cotton varieties. (W. W. Bryan) 


Monitor wild Heliothis virescens during summer using pheromone 
traps for feasibility of releasing backcross moths in test sites. 
(W. W. Bryan) 


Continue to monitor resistance levels in Heliothinae to several 
classes of insecticides and B.t.’s. Several different bioassays will 
be used because multifactorial resistance is now present. 
(G. W. Elzen) 


Evaluate synergists (Known metabolic types and _ purported 
insecticide types) on tobacco budworm. G. W. Elzen) 


Perform field efficacy trials with newly registered and promising 
insecticides. (G. W. Elzen) 


The Stoneville Insect Rearing Research Support Group will maintain 
nine insect species in 1996. These are tobacco budworm, 
bollworm, soybean looper, beet armyworm, velvetbean caterpillar, 
boll weevil, greater wax moth, Cardiochiles nigriceps, and Cotesia 
kazak. Also, assistance will be given individual scientists in 
maintaining insects needed for their research. Artificial diet will be 
supplied in 30 ml plastic cups and 3.8 liter multicellular trays. 
Efforts will continue to develop lidding for a disposal multicellular 
larval rearing tray. The training in insect rearing techniques and the 
transfer of technology provided to industry will continue. As always 
efforts will continue to produce high quality insects at the most 
economical price possible. The research of approximately 150 
scientists within USDA-ARS, private industry, and state universities 
will be supported by the work of this group. (R. L. Ford) 


The insect distribution programs with the Cotton Foundation and the 
American Soybean Association will continue in 1996. Both 
programs are expected to be utilized heavily by researchers 
throughout the United States. Funds provided by these programs 
will be used to defray insect rearing expenses of the SIML. The 
egg, pupal, and larval stage of tobacco budworm, bollworm, 
soybean looper, beet armyworm, and velvetbean caterpillar will be 
available. (R. L. Ford) 


29 


Greenhouse and laboratory studies on effect of aldicarb on cotton 
aphid resistance to insecticides will be expanded to verify previous 
conclusions. (D. D. Hardee) 


Various new boll weevil attract-and-kill devices supplied by 
commercial companies will be evaluated to determine their 
effectiveness in comparison with commercially available devices and 
traps. (D. D. Hardee) 


A boll weevil emergence and movement study (in cooperation with 
J. R. Coppedge, USDA-ARS, College Station, TX) will be repeated 
to determine extent of movement of boll weevils after July 1 in close 
proximity to and 1-3 miles from cotton. (D. D. Hardee) 


Influence of cotton aphids on ultimate yields of cotton will be studied 
by spraying cotton 2-3 times beginning prior to squaring, at first 1/3- 
grown square, and at first bloom. Transgenic and nectariless 
varieties of cotton will be subplot treatments. (D. D. Hardee) 


A large-scale study involving the interaction of elcar (NPV), 
pheromones, and transgenic cotton will be initiated. Sub-plots will 
be inside or outside the elcar-treated zone, and Mississippi Hills or 
Delta. (D. D. Hardee, M. R. Bell) 


Studies through the use of sound and video observations to 
determine the behavior of foliar feeding insects which damage 
soybean will be continued. (L. Lambert) 


Studies will be continued to determine the influence of soybean 
plant maturity on insect resistance. (L. Lambert) 


Evaluations of the USDA-ARS soybean germplasm collection will 
continue in an effort to identify resistance soybean damaging 
insects. (L. Lambert, T. Kilen) 


Studies will be continued with soybean to determine the influence 
of irrigation on the development of soybean looper populations and 
the subsequent impact on yield. (L. Lambert, L. G. Heatherly) 


Studies will be continued on the inheritance and development of 
resistance to foliar feeding insects in soybean and to develop high 
yielding, insect resistant, soybean cultivars. (L. Lambert, J. Tyler) 


40 


Will continue to evaluate a gonad-specific virus of the corn earworm. 
(L. Lambert, A. Raina) 


Efforts will be continued to identify resistance in cotton to foliar 
feeding by beet armyworm. (L. Lambert, W. R. Meredith) 


We will continue in the annual evaluation of the Soybean Regional 
Host Plant Resistance Nursery for resistance to foliar feeding 
insects. (L. Lambert) 


A grant funded through Cotton Incorporated to study plant bug 
sampling and thresholds will be continued. | Recommended 
thresholds of plant bugs will be sampled by drop cloth, sweep net, 
and visual methods. (W. P. Scott, G. L. Snodgrass) 


Spray table studies will continue to evaluate Fipronil formulations on 
plant bugs and boll weevils. An EUP on Fipronil will allow further 
evaluation in larger plots. Provado will also be evaluated in large 
field plots. (W. P. Scott, G. L. Snodgrass) 


In-furrow, seed, and sidedress studies will be continued to further 
evaluate these particular treatments on control of early season 
cotton pests and yield. (W. P. Scott) 


Spray table tests to evaluate the various metabolites of Fipronil on 
plant bugs and boll weevils will be conducted. (W. P. Scott, 
G. L. Snodgrass) 


Investigations to determine the utility of a trap cropping system 
designed to intercept migrating stinkbug species as they move from 
soybean and other host plants to pecan in late season will be 
continued. Replication of the 1995 tests will be performed in order 
to: (1) validate trap crop efficacy in reducing stinkbug damage; (2) 
validate the damage assessment methodology; and (3) verify and/or 
refine the monitoring method for timing insecticide application of 
stinkbugs in the trap crop. Efforts will also be made to publish the 
migration data regarding the movement of stinkbugs into the 
orchard, as well as the data regarding cultivar preference. 
(M. T. Smith, G. L. Snodgrass, B. Horton, T. Jenkins, M. Hughs, 
T. Winters) 


Research investigations of mating disruption will be repeated in 
1996 in order to validate the 1995 data, but with the additional 
objective of improving the method of application/deployment of the 
mating disruptant, as well as methods to minimize its cost. This will 
include the evaluation of a sprayable formulation relative to the 
traditional spirals. Efforts will also be made to analyze and publish 


4] 


the seasonal and spatial distribution data, coupled with the climatic 
data. Basic questions regarding mating disruption may also be 
pursued. [M. T. Smith, C. Yonce (USDA-ARS), S. Galindo (pecan 
grower), J. White (Ecogen)] 


Insect:plant:parasitoid interactions of the Silverleaf whitefly, Bemisia 
argentifolii, will be continued. These will include: (1) continuation of 
the state-wide survey of whitefly and associated parasitoid species 
in Mississippi; (2) continued efforts towards the joint research 
program with Dr. Regina Vilarinho de Oliveira (EMBRAPA, 
CENARGEN, Brasilia, Brazil), where the primary object is to explore 
for and evaluate New World parasitoid species for control of 
B. argentifolil; and (3) genetic evaluation of the 4 E. formosa strains 
in order to develop potential markers that may be used to 
differentiate these strains, which in turn could be utilized in 
monitoring their genetic stability as it relates to parasitoid efficacy 
(.Drs. C. LeVesque and T. Perring (UCR). Efforts will be made to 
analyze and publish the current data on Encarsia formosa strains in 
relation to temperature and host plants. (M. T. Smith) 


As time permits, research of the pecan weevil pheromone and 
spatial distribution will continue. Additional volatile collections, and 
EAD and chemical characterization will be performed, as well as 
field evaluation of various chemistries (insect and/or host odors) for 
attractancy to the weevil. The second year of intensive weevil 
trapping in two orchards should provide very useful information with 
respect to predictability of weevil density via crop load two years 
hence. Additional information will be obtained on the efficiency of 
the Tedders trap’ as a method for direct control of the pecan weevil. 
Efforts will also be made to develop a trap design which takes 
advantage of the weevil’s aggregation behavior. (M. T. Smith, 
G. Greis, H. Pierce, F. Taylor) 


Research may be conducted to evaluate several entomopathogenic 
nematodes for control of the pecan weevil. (M. T. Smith, 
R. W. Martin (Biosys), J. Kuhre) 


Analysis of leaf chemistry of each Juglandaceae species and pecan 
cultivar will be continued. (O. T. Chortyk, M. T. Smith) 


SEM analysis of the potential role of leaf surface and/or internal 
morphology in host plant resistance among the Juglandaceae 
species and the various pecan cultivars will be completed. 
(M. T. Smith, Rex Paul) 


42 


Development of an artificial diet bioassay method for evaluation of 
phytochemicals (natural products) isolated from the various non- 
preferred or unsuitable Juglandaceae species and/or pecan cultivars 
will be continued. (M. T. Smith) 


Investigations to elucidate the mechanism(s) which govern the host 
specificity of M. caryella, M. pecanis and M. caryaefoliae among the 
hickory and walnut species native to the United States, as well as 
among the pecan cultivars, will be conducted utilizing grafted plants 
of each Juglandaceae species and pecan cultivars. (M. T. Smith, 
C. C. Reilly, B. W. Wood) 


Insecticide resistance monitoring will be conducted in 1996 using a 
discriminating dose (15 yg of permethrin) glass vial bioassay and 
plant bugs collected from wild hosts at 72 locations in the Delta 
during April and May 1996. Bugs from wild hosts at these same 
locations will then be tested again in August and September, and 
results from the 2 time periods compared to results from 1995. This 
work is part of a Mississippi Cotton Incorporated Grant received for 
1995. (G. L. Snodgrass, W. P. Scott) 


A large field experiment will be conducted using cotton in a 
commercial field. The experiment is designed to test treatment 
thresholds and associated sampling methods used to determine 
them (as recommended by the Mississippi Cooperative Extension 
Service) to see if they work. The work is part of the grant listed in 
the preceding paragraph. (G. L. Snodgrass, W. P. Scott) 


The red eyed plant bug colony will be tested during the winter to try 
and determine the genetic basis for the trait. Fitness of the red 
eyed bugs will be studied by determining adult longevity, average 
egg production per female, percent egg hatch, nymphal 
developmental time, and percent survival of nymphs. These 
parameters will be compared to the same ones determined for a 
normal eyed laboratory colony. Responsiveness of red eyed and 
normal eyed bugs to different wavelengths of light will be compared 
to determine if vision in red and normal eyed bugs is the same. If 
the red eyed bugs are as fit as normal eyed ones, the red eyed 
colony could be used for movement studies in cotton. Adults and 
nymphs collected in the resistance study at 72 locations in the Delta 
in the spring and fall of 1996 will again be examined for red eyed 
individuals. (G. L. Snodgrass) 


43 


Extramural 


A test will be conducted to evaluate the persistence of baculovirus 
on various crops as well as early season hosts of the tobacco 
budworm and cotton bollworm and evaluate the relationship of 
persistence to the epizootic potential of the pathogen. These tests 
will be conducted in cooperation with the University of Arkansas. 
(M. R. Bell) 


Cooperative studies (with the National Center for Physical Acoustics, 
University of Mississippi, Oxford) to determine the significance of 
sound production of fire ants will be continued. (L. Lambert, 
R. Hickling) 

























112i : ma. EMSS aby Ec su 
tocham natural | ‘ atari from the | 
10 in canal nett Oreilerves 7 be loubnod os " seal & and/or pecan 
Vino eke, an - 2JONBV mo == 


- 
(all 
‘ 


S 
‘Y » 
. - 4 ~~ } 
ig? . Ve Of6 MMOWnOd ) DNS MHOWONG 
; ’ a — ™ ~ 4 
} | r Meq St S Shr BU0ORRe On) _ Soe . ‘4 govern the 
: as if Aneta’ , ( iter: tind 
BATIK | He 1% PU A TS a wed ti ‘ 18 OF one 


i468 hited States ae 


roped ap 
wired’ Ys rasta OW awe arity f M. Te 


Fe 


f oa! tga)’ C i216 
beur ; 4 mir 1 QuNOTd DMIOF 
if i { nis gj 
i veal Woeseal 
cehons in the @ 
i sts at these el 
| and Sephambens 
o reeuits foom: 4 
: +f, feo onl fecareae 
gr ase 
Veli : fevi 
ie ¢yperin S =~ | 
ery ; 4 
’ ‘ta ! Hirt ¢ 


v@ the gene stern for if tram . ine 

7. Us 1 OY Gewrnunind aoun nga be 

iusto. pel larva’ (7 GeaTi eg neteh; 

vial mG cercecit sieve ct Myer: 

. pa $s wil be compared w the sare ones. wecriig 

x) CGechy, Mesponuvenanss he ae 
hal eyed fuge to diferent wavelets of sapint welll 

in amerrone ¢ vigton 6 fed BAS normal ayed ag 

ie ed § oye Sug afe ae fit es néemel eyed ones 

sd be Used fot movement studhes 

frit she Gpbected 11 the resisiance ttt y 

n the 2pring aad fall of paso tt ag 

weg vii 1G. 4. Shodg 


5 arrale 


_ 





ee. 


ie 





i : 
: 
m 
ve 
i 
y 
7 @ 
re 
le. 
ony y 
< i i" , 
J Pt i 


bie i ; 


- ve : 
ay 
On ie 
ast 
PLY a 
» 















ae si ‘ Le 17, | 
+ aot a ~ ; 7 Ds ao if ; 
eee Gant 
a L&é pn Fd ; Rial) iad ' 
iy ‘ ip 7 oF ) > 7 
- mel _ yt re ‘ r <o se ' 
4 7 





3 Fa 
a 
Z 
; med) Oe . 
} i. 
j 
‘ \ + if ’ 
APD : N 
i y ‘ HY .ee oH 
i ea? eh Se 2 ih) Ce 





a ae 
ee ty ah ; i 


wt 





