Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 


aS494 
my 
-A45A47 


AF Note — 9 


Agroforestry Notes 


USDA Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Research Station * USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service 


Introduction 


Agroforestry 
Concepts 


National 
Agroforestry 
Center 


November, 1997 


The Biology of Silvopastoralism 


Forestry and livestock grazing are common competing uses for non-irrigated lands 
around the world. Forest grazing is a traditional practice in most of North America. 
Approximately 25 percent of all US forest land is grazed by livestock. Young forests 
and mature open-canopied forests can provide considerable amounts of forage for 
livestock. Prescription grazing makes beneficial use of ground vegetation that would 
otherwise compete with trees for soil moisture and nutrients, harbor gnawing rodents, 
and pose a fire hazard. Pasture grasses and legumes are sometimes seeded into newly 
harvested forest areas to reduce erosion, to provide high-quality food for deer and elk, 
and to decrease establishment of unwanted trees and brush. Such seedings provide a 
forage base, which may not persist without livestock grazing. Older, closed canopy 
stands of trees are frequently thinned to increase tree and forage growth. Pastures may 
contain a few scattered large trees or small groves of trees that were left when the land 
was cleared. Together, these traditional practices form a base of experience from 
which current, more intensely managed, silvopastorai systems have evolved. 


Agroforests are planned, managed agroecosystems. Agroforestry differs from tradi- 
tional forestry and agriculture by its focus on the interactions among components 
rather than on the individual components themselves. Success of agroforestry is, there- 
fore, largely determined by the extent to which individual forest and agricultural com- 
ponents can be integrated to help rather than hinder each other. Each component is 
judged by its capacity to produce desired products, and its ability to assist other com- 
ponents. For instance, trees can produce saleable wood fiber, forage for livestock, and 
fruits or nuts, while increasing pasture and livestock production by breaking the wind 
and providing shade. Pasture plants provide forage for livestock and serve as a living 
mulch to help suppress weeds and to reduce soil erosion. Livestock provide income, 
consume weeds, and are a major tool by which grass/legume, and tree/forage competi- 
tion is controlled. Grazing may also reduce fertilizer needs by increasing the effective- 
ness of soil nutrients through recycling (in dung and urine) of elements such as nitro- 
gen, phosphorous, potassium, and sulphur which are stored in pasture forage. Just as a 
well-designed system is better than the sum of its individual parts, the combined tree 
plus forage productivity of silvopastures may substantially exceed that of pastures or 
forests grown alone. For example, one acre of grass-legume/Douglas-fir silvopasture 
in Western Oregon has been observed to produce as much forage and timber as 1.6 
acres of similar forest and pasture grown alone. 


Oo 


Tree Component 


Tree pattern is as important as the 
number of trees planted per acre 
in governing agroforest effects 
upon tree and pasture production. § 
For a given pattern, the number of § 
trees planted per acre is deter- 
mined by the number of trees 
desired in the final forest, number 
of trees to be sold as commercial 
thinnings, and the expected pro- 
portion of trees lost to mortality 
or thinned for poor form or 
growth. In commercial conifer . . 
forests, four to six times the num- Trees planted eight feet apart in single rows provides 
ber of trees desired in the mature 23-foot wide forage alleys for sheep grazing a five-year- 


forest are generally planted. old Douglas-fir/perennial ryegrass silvopasture in west- 
ern Oregon. 


However, agroforests are usually 
planted at lower tree densities than forests so that forage can be grown longer into the 

timber rotation. As one might expect, tree pattern has a greater impact upon forage pro- 

duction for faster growing trees and at higher tree densities. The traditional forestry prac- 

tice of planting trees an equal distance apart in a grid-like pattern maximizes the occupan- 

cy of the site by trees but limits pasture production. Forage production under tree grids 

falls off rapidly once trees exceed about 35 percent canopy cover. Grouping trees togeth- 

er into rows, or clusters concentrates their shade and root effects, provides larger open 

spaces for pasture production, and facilitates mowing, grazing, and other management 

operations with little sacrifice in tree growth. Trees planted in rows often perform poorly 

if they do not have at least one side in full sun. Therefore, single or double rows are gen- 

erally preferred over triple rows of trees. Grouping of trees is especially helpful under C 
very low tree densities where single, free standing trees may blow over in strong winds or 

have poor growth and form from being exposed to the weather. 


The ability of plants to withdraw soil moisture and nutrients is strongly associated with 
the amount of fine roots that they have. Ground vegetation that quickly establishes a 
dense, shallow, fibrous root system, such as many perennial grasses, competes severely 
with newly planted trees. Young, establishing trees may be killed by drought stress in 
thick stands of ground vegetation, but substantial reduction in tree growth is more com- 
mon than actual mortality. Dense stands of brush may reduce the growth of even estab- 
lished trees. Young trees often benefit from two to three years of vegetation control after 
planting. Herbaceous plants and many brush species may be effectively suppressed by 
prescrption grazing, mechanical treatment, or chemical application. A commonly used 
approach when planting trees into established pastures is to spray a strip or circle around 
trees to provide a four to six foot diameter competition-free zone around each tree. Once 
trees overtop and establish deep roots beneath the rooting zone of competing ground veg- 
etation, competition for moisture and light is largely one-sided, with trees reducing 
understory production, but understory having little effect upon overstory trees. 


Lower densities of trees and planting patterns in which trees have one or more sides in the 

open, typically used in agroforests, promotes rapid growth of trees. However, these more 

open-grown trees may have greater taper and more large branches than trees growing in 

closed canopy forests. Pruning of lower branches up to a height of at least one log length 

has proven to be a profitable solution to log quality where processors are willing to pay a € 
premium for large, knot free logs. Pruning also raises the tree canopy so that more light 

can reach the ground, thus maintaining higher pasture production for a longer portion of 

the tree rotation and producing an open park-like forest which is visually pleasing to neighbors. 


2 


Pasture 
Component 


Livestock 
Component 


Clovers or other pasture 
legumes are often seeded 
into pastures to provide 
highly nutritious food for 
livestock and to convert 
atmospheric nitrogen into 
an organic form which 
plants and animals can use. 
Nitrogen fixation is actually | 


Pi intieibow ot bos . aut 


—— 


legumes. The bacteria/host 
partnership is quite specific ; 
with each bacterial strain —_ goythern pines provide a shad 
associating successfully cattle grazing in Louisiana. 
with only a limited group of 

plant hosts, called their “cross inoculation group.” The usual practice is to directly 
apply bacterial inoculum to seeds just prior to planting rather than gamble that 
sufficient amounts of appropriate bacteria already exist in the soil. Nitrogen fix- 
ing trees such as alders, black locust, or mesquites also form bacterial associa- 
tions which make them useful as sources of nitrogen for other plants and animals 
in silvopastures. 


y, park-like setting for 


Competition between trees and pasture is reduced by selecting pasture plants 
which either grow at a different time of year, or are more shallowly rooted than 
trees. For example, cool season grasses (such as annual ryegrass) and legumes 
(such as crimson or subterranean clover) can be seeded into southeastern pine 
stands with little detrimental impact upon growth of either trees or subsequent 
warm season pasture plants. In the Pacific Northwest, shallowly rooted subter- 
ranean clover-ryegrass pastures actually reduce summer moisture stress in trees 
compared to ungrazed naturalized grasses which are more deeply rooted and 
grow longer into the dry season. Trees reduce forage production by competing for 
soil moisture, nutrients, and light. The major factor reducing forage production in 
open canopy forests, such as young timber stands, is probably soil resources 
rather than light. Forage plants which grow primarily during the rainy season, and 
those with high drought tolerance are most likely to compete successfully with 
trees in established young agroforests. As tree canopies begin to coalesce into a 
closed canopy, tolerance of low light conditions becomes important in selecting 
forage species. 


Trees in pasture provide shelter for livestock during periods of inclement weather. 
This can significantly improve animal performance during particularly hot or cold 
times of the year. Specifically designed tree plantings called “livestock havens” 
are sometimes planted solely for livestock protection. Forage growing under the 
shady, low wind environment near trees tends to mature more slowly and, there- 
fore, be lower in fiber and more digestible than that growing out in the open. 
Young agroforests may be grazed by cattle or sheep with little browsing damage 
to trees provided that other, attractive forage is present. However, this can be 
tricky to do in practice, particularly with hardwood trees, which seem to be inher- 
ently more attractive to livestock than are conifers. Conifers, although not really 
palatable to livestock, are most likely to be browsed after spring bud break when 
foliage is still light green in color. Livestock like variety in their diet. They will 
often consume a small amount of tree foliage each day. This small amount of 
browsing may accumulate to unacceptable levels when animals are in the sil- 


3 


vopasture for prolonged periods. Age and experience of animals is probably more impor- 
tant than breed in predicting the willingness of livestock to browse or debark trees. Young 
animals and those with a past experience of eating tree foliage are much more likely to 
browse trees. Browsing damage can sometimes be eliminated by removing a few problem Cc 
animals. Browsing by livestock is unlikely to kill young trees unless it is both severe and 
repeated several times. Removing the top bud of conifer trees, or of over half of the cur- 
rent year’s foliage, however, will reduce tree growth that year. Trampling of very young 
seedlings and livestock rubbing on tree saplings may be a problem, particularly with cat- 
tle. Where livestock damage must be avoided, young agroforests may be hayed, or trees 
protected from livestock by chemical repellents, electric fences, individual tree shelters, 
or rigid mesh tubes. Once the top branches of trees grow above the reach of livestock and 
a thick layer of bark has developed, potential for tree damage by livestock browsing is 
minimal and agroforests may be managed similar to pastures. 


Additional “Agroforestry Using Tame Pastures Under Planted Pines in the Southeastern United 
Information States.” by C.E. Lewis and H.A. Pearson. 1987. pp. 195-212. IN: H.L. Gholz (ed.). In: 
Agroforestry realities, possibilities, and potentials. Martinus Nijhoff, Boston. 
“Sheep as a Silvicultural Management Tool on Temperate Conifer Forest.” by S.H. 
Sharrow. 1994. In: Sheep Research Journal, Special issue 1994. pp. 97-104. 
“Trees and Pastures: 40 Years of Agrosilvopastoral Experience in Western Oregon.” by 
S.H. Sharrow and R.A. Fletcher. 1994 pp 49-52. In: Proceedings, Agroforestry and 
Sustainable Systems Symposium, Fort Collins, Co. 7-10 August, USDA Forest 
Service Gen. Tech. Report RM-261, W.J. Rietveld (ed). 
“Tree Planting Pattern Effects on Forage Production in a Douglas-fir Agroforest.” by S.H. 
Sharrow. 1992. Agroforestry Systems 16:167-175. 


Author 
Dr. Steven H. Sharrow, Professor, Department of Rangeland Resources, Oregon State University, Corvallis, € 
Oregon 97331. Phone 541-737-1627. Fax 541-737-0504. i 


Acknowledgments 
Thanks to the following individuals for technical assistance: Linda Hardesty, Washington State University; 
Wayne Leininger, Colorado State University; and Ken Fulghum, Humbolt State University. 


* NATIONA 


HNN 


1022477769 


For more information contact: National Agroforestry Center, USDA Forest Service, Rocky Mountain Station\ USDA Natual Resources 
Conservation Service, East Campus-UNL, Lincoln, Nebraska 68583-0822. Phone: 402-437-5178; fax: 402-437-5712. 


The National Agroforestry Center is a partnership of the USDA Forest Service and the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service. The 
Center's purpose is to accelerate the development and application of agroforestry technologies to attain more economically, environmentally, 
and socially sustainable land-use systems. To accomplish its mission, the Center interacts with a national network of cooperators to conduct 
research, develop technologies and tools, establish demonstrations, and provide useful information to natural resource professionals. 


The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in its programs on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, : 
religion, age, disability, political beliefs and marital or familial status. (Not all prohibited bases apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities ¢. 
who require alternative means for communication of program information (braille, large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact the USDA office 

of Communications at 202-720-5881 (voice) or 202-720-7808 (TDD). 


To file a complaint, write the Secretary of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250, or call 202-720-7327 (voice) 
or 202-720-1127 (TDD). USDA is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer. 


4 


