Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


/ 


USDA  •  FSIS 


Improving  the 
Safety  of 
Meat  and  Poultry 


'i  j|7l 


on 


Science'hased 
Strategy  for 
Protecting 
Public  Health 


Document  Delivery  Services  Branch 
USDA,  National  Agricultural  Library 
Nal  BIdg. 

10301  Baltimore  Blvd. 
Beltsville.  MD  20705-2351 


National  Agricultural  Library 


tMk^aStatms      Offictof  N»ws  Distribution 

Otpartmmii  of     Communications    Boom  506-A 
AgrietiKun  Washington,  D.C.  20250 


Release  No.  0072.95 

Mary  Dixon  (202)  720-4623 
Jacque  Knight  (202)720-9113 

USDA  UNVEILS  SWEEPING  NEW  FOOD  SAFETY  PROPOSALS 

WASHINGTON,  Jan.  31,  1995- -The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  today 
proposed  sweeping  changes  in  federal  meat  and  poultry  inspection,  from  a 
system  based  primarily  on  sight,  touch  and  smell  to  one  incorporating 
scientific  testing  and  systematic  prevention  of  contamination. 

"These  reforms  demonstrate  this  administration's  strong  commitment  to 
making  meat  and  poultry  safer  for  consumers , "  said  Acting  Secretary  Richard 
Rominger  at  a  press  conference  announcing  a  thorough  modernization  of  USDA's 
food  safety  procedures. 

"In  keeping  with  the  President's  initiative  to  reform  the  way  the 
federal  government  does  business,  we  propose  to  reinvent  the  meat  and  poultry 
inspection  system  by  incorporating  science -based  concepts  to  make  our  food 
supply  safer.     This  initiative  is  not  about  more  regulation.     It's  about 
better,  more  sensible  regulation." 

"We  are  proposing  a  system  that  would  directly  target  and  reduce  harmful 
bacteria  and  build  prevention  of  foodbome  illness  into  meat  and  poultry 
inspection,"  said  Michael  R.  Taylor,  the  acting  under  secretary  for  Food 
Safety  and  administrator  of  USDA's  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS) . 

"These  proposals  mark  a  fundamental  shift.     They  are  targeted  to  improve 
the  safety  of  meat  and  poultry  products  by  directly  addressing  the  pathogenic 
microorganisms  that  cause  most  food- related  illnesses  and  by  increasing  our 
ability  to  ensure  that  all  meat  and  poultry  companies  follow  sound  food  safety 
procedures,"  Taylor  said. 

The  proposal  would  require  the  nation's  nearly  6,200  federally  inspected 
meat  and  poultry  slaughter  and  processing  plants  to  adopt  science -based 
process  control  systems,  called  Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points 
(HACCP) .     The  HACCP  systems  would  identify  potential  food  safety  hazards 
arising  in  slaughter  and  processing  plants  and  build  in  science-based 
preventive  controls.    USDA's  food  safety  proposals  would  also  affect  about 
2,900  state  inspected  plants  and  foreign  meat  and  poultry  inspection  programs, 
which  under  current  law  must  be  equivalent  to  the  U.S.  system. 

Under  the  HACCP  proposal,  industry  would  verify  the  effectiveness  of 
their  operations  by  continuous  monitoring  of  the  controls,  end  product  testing 
and  careful  record  keeping.     FSIS,  the  agency  responsible  for  designing  and 
carrying  out  USDA's  food  safety  program,    would  review  each  plant's  records 
and  conduct  other  in-plant  inspection  activities  to  verify  that  proper  food 
safety  procedures  are  being  followed. 

For  the  first  time,  targets  would  be  set  for  reducing  the  incidence  of 
contamination  of  raw  meat  and  poultry  products  with  harmful  bacteria.  Plants 


MEWS 


more- 


-2- 


that  do  not  achieve  established  targets  for  pathogen  reduction  within  a 
specified  time  would  be  required  to  take  corrective  action  under  FSIS 
supervision  to  achieve  the  target. 

The  proposal  would  require  slaughter  plants  to  test  raw  products 
initially  for  Salmonella,  a  pathogenic  bacteria  that  is  the  most  common  cause 
of  foodborne  illness  in  the  United  States.    The  proposal  includes  identifying 
the  current  baseline  incidence  of  Salmonella  contamination  for  each  major 
species  and  for  ground  meat  and  poultry.     Slaughter  plants  would  be  required 
to  reduce  contamination  to  a  level  determined  after  FSIS  reviews  comments  on 
the  proposed  rule.    The  proposal  would  require  bacterial  testing  90  days  after 
publication  of  the  final  rule. 

"The  HACCP  system  clearly  establishes  the  meat  and  poultry  industry's 
responsibility  for  improving  the  safety  of  their  products,  and  the  interim 
targets  will  help  achieve  measurable  progress  toward  pathogen  reduction  even 
as  we  develop  our  HACCP  program."  said  Taylor,  who  was  appointed  the 
administrator  of  the  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  in  August  and  in 
October  was  named  to  the  new  position  of  acting  under  secretary  for  food 
safety. 

"Our  proposals  will  stimulate  the  innovative  capacity  of  the  meat  and 
poultry  industry  to  produce  safer  products,"  Taylor  added.    To  facilitate  the 
innovations,  FSIS  is  reviewing  its  existing  food  safety  regiilations  and  will 
delete  requirements  that  are  obsolete  or  unnecessarily  inhibit  the 
incorporation  of  science -based  preventive  controls  into  meat  and  poultry 
production  systems. 

The  new  proposal  also  includes  basic  food  safety  procedures  that  Taylor 
says  many  plants  have  already  implemented,  including  written  sanitation  plans, 
antimicrobial  treatments  and  strict  temperature  controls  for  raw  products . 

USDA  estimated  the  total  implementation  cost  of  the  proposal  to  the  meat 
and  poultry  industry  at  $733.5  million  over  three  years,  or  an  average  of 
$24A.5  million  per  year.    Yearly  public  health  benefits  from  reduced  foodborne 
illness  costs,  including  medical  care  and  lost  work  time,  would  range  from 
$990  million  to  $3.7  billion.      These  costs  amount  to  slightly  more  than  two 
tenths  of  a  cent  per  pound. 

According  to  Rominger  and  Taylor,  the  proposals  to  improve  in-plant  food 
safety  procedures  are  part  of  a  broad  USDA  food  safety  strategy  that  will 
stress  preventive  measures  throughout  the  food  chain. 

"We  will  be  working  cooperatively  with  the  producer  community  to  find 
and  implement  solutions  to  food  safety  problems  on  the  farm,  and  we  will  work 
jointly  with  FDA  to  ensure  that  appropriate  food  safety  controls  are  in  place 
during  the  transportation  process,"  Taylor  said.    "We  are  also  expanding  our 
collaboration  with  the  states  to  improve  food  safety  at  the  retail  level." 

Noting  that  consumers  also  share  the  responsibility  for  the  safety  of 
their  food,  Taylor  added,  "As  USDA  works  to  do  a  better  job  to  protect 
consumers,  it  is  critical  that  consumers  do  their  part  by  properly  handling 
and  cooking  meat  and  poultry  products." 

FSIS  plans  extensive  public  outreach  during  the  120 -day  comment  period 
to  explain  and  receive  comments  on  the  proposal. 


more- 


-3- 


"It   is   only  with  the   iaeas ,   views   and  input  of  all   interests   that  we  can 
develop  the  best  inspection  system  possible.   We  want  to  stimulate  dialogue  and 
draw  out  informed  and  constructive  comments  so  we  can  make  this  proposed  rule 
effective  and  workable.     All  parties,   government  and  industry,   consumers  and 
the  scientific  community,  need  to  work  together  to  improve  the  safety  of  meat 
and  poultry,"  Taylor  said. 

The  proposed  USDA  HACCP/Pathogen  Reduction  rule  is  scheduled  to  be 
publish  in  the  Feb.   3  Federal  Register.     Comments  will  be  accepted  through 
June  5.     Comments  can  be  sent  to:  Policy,  Evaluation  and  Planning  Office, 
Attn:  Diane  Moore,  FSIS  Docket  Clerk,  Room  3171-South  Building,  Food  Safety 
and  Inspection  service,  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C. 
20250. 


The  USDA  proposals  for  HACCP  and  pathogen  reduction  are  the  latest  steps 
taken  by  the  Administration  to  strengthen  and  update  the  federal  inspection 
program  for  meat  and  poultry  products.     Initiatives  since  January  1993 
include : 


started  unannounced  reviews  in  1,000  meat  and  poultry  plants, 
--  implemented  mandatory  safe  cooking  and  handling  instruction  on  labels 
of  meat  and  poultry  products , 

increased  funding  for  food  safety  research, 
--  elevated  food  safety  to  a  sub-cabinet  level  at  USDA, 
--  declared  E.coli  0157 :H7  in  raw  ground  beef  an  illegal  adulterant, 
--  initiated  a  sampling  program  for  raw  ground  beef,  and 
--  streamlined  approval  of  antimicrobial  treatments  for  use  by  industry. 


U  S  DEPT.  OF  AGRICULTURE 
NATIONAL  AGRICULTURAL  LiBRARY 


FEB  1  3 1996 


CATALOGING  PREP. 


p         FSIS  Pathogen 

Reduction  ^'HACCP 
^'m^hi  Proposal 


SUMMARY 


The  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  is  pur- 
suing a  broad,  long  term  science-based  strategy  to  im- 
prove the  safety  of  meat  and  poultry  products  and  bet- 
ter protect  public  health. 

The  strategy  will  address  food  safety  issues  from  the 
farm  to  the  table,  including  proposed  requirements  for 
all  federally  inspected  meat  and  poultry  plants  to  re- 
duce pathogenic  microorganisms  that  can  cause 
foodborne  illness.  The  strategy  is  based  on  the  phi- 
losophy of  prevention  embodied  in  HACCP  (Hazard 
Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points),  a  science-based 
system  for  producing  safe  food. 

The  regulatory  proposal  would  (1 )  target  pathogens  that 
cause  foodborne  illness;  (2)  strengthen  industry  respon- 
sibility to  produce  safe  food;  and  (3)  focus  inspection 
and  plant  activities  on  prevention  objectives. 

The  proposal  addresses  three  major  areas: 

Near-term  initiatives 

FSIS  is  proposing  that: 

•  All  plants  develop  and  use  written  standard 
operating  procedures  covering  plant  sanitation. 

•  Slaughter  plants  use  at  least  one  antimicrobial 
treatment  on  all  carcasses. 

•  All  finished  carcasses  and  parts  be  chilled  promptly 
after  slaughter  and  be  kept  cool. 

These  requirements  would  have  to  be  implemented 
within  90  days  from  the  date  of  publication  of  the  final 
rule  and  would  remain  in  effect  at  least  until  a  Hazard 
Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points  (HACCP)  system  is 
implemented. 

Proposed  Interim  Targets  for  Pathogen 
Reduction  and  l\/licrobial  Testing 

Under  the  proposal,  FSIS  would  establish  interim  tar- 
gets for  pathogen  reduction  and  require  daily  microbial 
testing  in  slaughter  plants  to  determine  whether  targets 


are  being  met  or  remedial  measures  are  necessary. 
Raw  products  would  be  tested  for  Salmonella,  a  repre- 
sentative pathogen,  and  establishments  would  be  re- 
quired to  achieve  targeted  reductions  in  the  incidence 
of  Salmonella  in  relation  to  the  current  national  baseline 
incidence.  Microbiological  testing  would  be  required 
to  begin  in  90  days  and  tracking  of  test  results  would 
begin  6  months  after  the  final  rule  is  published.  Com- 
pliance with  the  interim  targets  would  be  determined 
by  using  a  moving  sum  statistical  procedure  that  fo- 
cuses on  a  specific  number  of  days  within  a  production 
process. 

Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical 
Control  Points  (HACCP) 

All  plants  would  be  required  to  develop,  adopt,  and 
implement  Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points 
(HACCP),  a  system  of  preventive  controls  designed  to 
improve  the  safety  of  products.  HACCP  would  be  imple- 
mented during  the  three  years  following  the  publica- 
tion of  the  final  rule.  FSIS  expects  the  near-term  initia- 
tives and  microbial  testing  requirements  to  provide  the 
foundation  for  the  later  adoption  of  HACCP  by  plants. 

Implementation  Costs 

FSIS  estimates  the  total  implementation  cost  of  its  pro- 
posed requirements  to  the  meat  and  poultry  industry  at 
$733.5  million,  or  an  average  of  $244.5  million  per  year. 
Yearly  public  health  benefits  from  reduced  foodborne 
illness  costs,  including  medical  care  and  lost  work  time, 
would  range  from  $990  million  to  $3.7  billion.  The  in- 
creased cost  to  consumers  is  estimated  at  slightly  more 
than  two  tenths  of  a  cent  per  pound. 

Comments 

The  proposed  USDA  HACCP/Pathogen  Reduction  rule 
was  published  in  the  February  3  Federal  Register, 
Comments  on  the  proposal  should  be  submitted  to 
Diane  Moore,  Docket  Clerk,  Room  3171  South  Build- 
ing, Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service,  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  Washington  DC  20250.  Comments 
will  be  accepted  through  June  5. 


February  1995 


U.S.  Dcparlment  of  AgricLillurc 
Food  Safely  &  Inspection  Service 


BACKGROUND 

Current  FSIS  regulatory  requirements  and  inspection 
procedures  contribute  to  tlie  FSIS  mission  of  ensuring 
that  meat  and  poultry  products  are  safe,  wholesome, 
and  accurately  labeled.  More  than  7,400  FSIS  inspec- 
tors are  present  in  6,200  slaughter  and  processing 
plants  to  ensure  that  diseased  animals  and  birds  do 
not  enter  the  food  supply  and  that  sanitation  and  other 
requirements  are  met.  Inspectors  also  monitor  the  meat 
and  poultry  supply  for  violative  levels  of  chemical  resi- 
dues. 

Despite  the  successes  of  the  current  program,  there  is 
a  critical  gap  in  its  ability  to  protect  public  health.  The 
current  system  largely  focuses  on  organoleptic  (sen- 
sory) inspection,  which  was  appropriate  when  the  first 
major  meat  inspection  law  was  passed  in  1 906.  At  that 
time,  animal  diseases  were  the  major  concern,  and  in- 
visible hazards  such  as  pathogenic  microorganisms  and 
drug  residues  had  not  yet  attracted  the  attention  of  regu- 
latory agencies.  Since  that  time,  changes  have  been 
made  in  the  inspection  program  to  reflect  changes  in 
the  production  of  meat  and  poultry  and  to  increase  the 
efficiency  of  inspection.  However,  the  current  program 
still  is  inadequate  to  detect  hazards  such  as  pathogenic 
microorganisms  that  can  cause  foodborne  illness.  In 
short,  it  does  not  include  integration  of  systematic  pro- 
cess control  into  the  production  process  to  make  meat 
and  poultry  as  safe  as  possible. 

While  precise  data  on  the  incidence  of  illness  associ- 
ated with  meat  and  poultry  products  is  limited,  it  is  clear 
that  foodborne  illness  is  a  public  health  problem  in  the 
United  States.  Data  from  varied  sources  suggest  that 
foodborne  pathogens  account  for  up  to  7  million  cases 
of  foodborne  illness  each  year,  and  up  to  7,000  deaths. 
Of  these,  nearly  5  million  cases  of  illness  and  more 
than  4,000  deaths  may  be  associated  with  meat  and 
poultry  products. 

Microbiological  surveys  of  meat  and  poultry  products 
conducted  over  the  past  several  decades  show  the  fre- 
quency of  pathogenic  microorganisms  in  cooked,  ready- 
to-eat  meat  and  poultry  products  to  be  relatively  low. 
The  frequency  of  pathogenic  microorganisms  in  raw 
products  has  been  greater  and  varies  from  pathogen 
to  pathogen  and  from  species  to  species. 

Even  when  the  incidence  of  contamination  is  relatively 
low,  the  public  health  threat  can  be  serious.  An  ex- 
ample is  the  outbreak  of  foodborne  illness  that  occurred 


in  several  western  states  in  early  1993.  The  outbreak 
was  attributed  to  undercooked  hamburgers  contami- 
nated with  E.  CO// 01 57:H7  that  were  served  at  a  chain 
of  fast  food  restaurants.  A  study  by  FSIS  completed  in 
1990  found  the  prevalence  of  E.  co// 01 57:H7  in  raw 
beef  to  be  only  0.1  percent.  Nevertheless,  this  particu- 
lar outbreak  led  to  hundreds  of  cases  of  illness  and 
four  deaths.  Although  the  Department  of  Agriculture's 
review  of  the  outbreak  revealed  that  the  incident  was 
not  caused  by  a  failure  in  the  current  inspection  sys- 
tem, it  concluded  that  the  system  as  it  exists  is  defi- 
cient because  it  does  not  adequately  address  the  risk 
of  microbial  contamination. 

This  conclusion  has  been  supported  by  many  external 
studies  conducted  during  the  past  decade.  The  Na- 
tional Academy  of  Sciences,  the  General  Accounting 
Office,  the  National  Advisory  Committee  on  Microbio- 
logical Criteria  for  Foods,  industry,  producers  and  con- 
sumer groups  have  called  for  change  in  the  current  in- 
spection system  to  better  address  microbial  pathogens 
and  make  it  more  prevention-oriented. 


FSIS  Strategy 

•  Stimulate  improvement  in  food  safety  prac- 
tices by  setting  public  health-oriented  targets, 
guidelines,  or  standards  that  all  plants  must 
meet. 

•  Clearly  define  the  minimum  requirements  all 
plants  must  meet  to  produce  safe  meat  and 
poultry  and  ensure  that  plants  are  account 
able  for  meeting  them. 

•  Make  meat  and  poultry  plants  responsible 
for  microbial  testing  of  their  products  to  en- 
sure proper  process  control  and  verify 
achievement  of  microbial  limits. 

•  Foster  scientific  and  technological  innovation 
within  the  meat  and  poultry  industry  by  remov- 
ing any  unnecessary  regulatory  obstacles  to 
innovation. 

•  Build  the  principle  of  prevention  into  the 
operations  of  meat  and  poultry  plants. 

•  Focus  inspection  on  prevention  objectives. 

•  Approach  the  food  safety  mission  broadly  and 
consider  potential  hazards  that  arise  through- 
out the  food  production  and  delivery  system, 
including  before  animals  enter  FSIS-inspected 
plants  and  after  meat  and  poultry  products 
leave  those  plants. 


2 


THE  PROPOSAL 

Near-Term  Initiatives 

•  Sanitation  Standard  Operating 
Procedures  (SOPs) 

Insanitary  conditions  during  the  production  of  meat  and 
poultry  products  increase  the  likelihood  that  pathogenic 
bacteria  will  contaminate  the  finished  product.  At  the 
same  time,  poor  sanitation  is  the  most  frequently  ob- 
served problem  in  meat  and  poultry  plants. 

FSIS  is  proposing  to  require  all  plants  to  establish  writ- 
ten SOPs  for  sanitation  and  maintain  a  system  of 
records  to  document  adherence  to  the  procedures.  The 
proposal  does  not  change  existing  basic  sanitation  re- 
quirements found  in  the  regulations  or  guidance  con- 
tained in  the  FSIS  Sanitation  Handbook.  Rather,  the 
written  sanitation  SOPs  would  describe  the  specific 
activities  plant  management  has  determined  are  nec- 
essary to  maintain  good  sanitation  in  a  specific  plant. 
Examples  of  specific  practices  that  might  be  included 
in  an  SOP  include  pre-operational  microbiological  test- 
ing, disinfection  of  equipment  prior  to  start  up,  proper 
hand  washing  between  each  carcass  during  skinning 
and  evisceration,  and  cleaning  cattle  prior  to  slaughter. 

Sanitation  SOPs  are  intended  to  clarify  that  sanitation 
is  industry's  responsibility.  They  would  make  it  easier 
for  FSIS  inspectors  to  perform  their  proper  role  of  veri- 
fying that  plant  management  is  carrying  out  its  sanita- 
tion responsibilities. 

•  Antimicrobial  treatments 

The  proposed  regulation  would  require  that  slaughter- 
ing plants  apply  at  least  one  antimicrobial  treatment  to 
livestock  and  poultry  carcasses  before  chilling  or  cool- 
ing. FSIS  recognizes  that  this  is  not  a  complete  solu- 
tion to  the  problem  of  pathogenic  microorganisms  but, 
rather,  is  one  part  of  a  strategy  to  reduce  pathogens. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  FSIS  would  approve 
specific  antimicrobial  treatments  when  data  are  avail- 
able demonstrating  that  they  are  safe  and  effective  and 
do  not  adulterate  the  product.  The  following  are  avail- 
able antimicrobial  treatments  that  FSIS  tentatively  con- 
cludes could  satisfy  its  proposed  requirements  for  a 
mandatory  antimicrobial  treatment:  hot  water;  lactic, 
acetic,  and  citric  acid  solution  sprays;  trisodium  phos- 
phate; and  chlorinated  water.  The  Agency  encourages 


the  development  of  new  antimicrobial  procedures  and 
will  work  with  those  who  have  developed  and  want  to 
evaluate  processing  techniques  designed  to  enhance 
product  safety. 

Antimicrobial  treatments  will  not  be  allowed  to  substi- 
tute for  careful  sanitary  dressing  procedures.  This  new 
proposed  requirement  would  not  change  the  current 
FSIS  policy  regarding  removal  of  physical  contaminants 
from  meat  and  poultry  carcasses.  The  proposal  clari- 
fies that  there  is  no  tolerance  for  feces  on  poultry  car- 
casses. 

•  Time/Temperature  Controls 

Rapidly  cooling  carcasses  is  one  means  of  preventing 
the  multiplication  of  pathogenic  bacteria.  FSIS  is  pro- 
posing that  appropriate  time/temperature  controls  for 
handling  raw  products,  which  many  plants  follow  vol- 
untarily based  on  prevailing  industry  standards,  become 
mandatory. 

Plants  would  be  required  to  cool  the  surface  of  meat 
carcasses  to  50°  F  or  below  within  5  hours  and  to  40°  F 
or  below  within  24  hours  from  the  time  that  carcasses 
exit  the  slaughter  floor.  In  addition,  carcasses  and  meat 
products  would  be  required  to  be  maintained  at  40°  F 
or  below  during  handling,  holding,  and  shipping. 

Current  poultry  regulations  already  require  that  all  poul- 
try slaughtered  and  eviscerated  be  chilled  immediately 
after  processing  so  that  the  internal  temperature  is  re- 
duced to  40°  F  or  below  within  a  time  period  appropri- 
ate for  the  size  of  the  carcass.  Eviscerated  poultry  to 
be  shipped  must  be  maintained  at  40°  F  or  below,  with 
certain  exceptions.  FSIS  is  proposing  to  amend  the 
poultry  regulations  to  include  provisions  for  alternative 
time/temperature  requirements,  to  mandate  corrective 
actions  when  time/temperature  controls  fail,  and  to  elimi- 
nate other  provisions  inconsistent  with  those  being  pro- 
posed for  meat. 

The  proposed  time/temperature  cooling  requirements 
for  meat  are  equivalent  to  those  in  effect  and  being 
proposed  for  poultry  in  terms  of  their  public  health  ben- 
efits and  are  readily  attainable  under  current  commer- 
cial conditions. 

Plants  would  be  required  to  develop,  implement,  and 
file  a  written  plan  for  meeting  the  time  and  temperature 
requirements.  Inspection  personnel  would  verify  that 
the  written  plan  is  being  followed  and  would  measure 
temperatures  at  various  control  points  and  compare 
them  with  those  measured  and  recorded  by  the  plant. 

3 


Products  that  are  not  chilled  quickly  enough,  or  that 
have  been  held  at  temperatures  exceeding  40°  F,  would 
be  required  to  be  further  processed  to  l<ill  pathogens  or 
be  condemned. 

Interim  Targets  for  Pathogen  Reduction 
and  Microbial  Testing 

FSIS  believes  that  the  production  of  raw  meat  and  poul- 
try with  an  incidence  of  Salmonella  below  the  current 
national  incidence  level  is  readily  achievable  with  avail- 
able technology  and  production  methods.  FSIS  is  pro- 
posing that  all  plants  should  be  required  to  control  their 
processes  to  achieve  microbial  targets  below  the  na- 
tional incidence  level,  and  is  therefore  proposing  in- 
terim targets  for  pathogen  reduction  in  slaughter  plants. 

Under  the  proposal,  plants  would  be  required  to  sample 
and  test  representative  products  daily  for  the  presence 
of  Salmonella.  FSIS  would  identify  a  national  baseline 
incidence  of  Sa/mone//a  contamination  for  each  major 
species  and  for  ground  meat  and  poultry.  FSIS  is  pro- 
posing that  within  two  years  following  the  publication 
of  the  final  rule,  or  within  some  other  period  specified 
by  FSIS,  all  plants  reduce  contamination  below  the 
baseline,  perhaps  by  some  specified  percentage.  FSIS 
is  interested  in  comments  on  what  that  percentage 
should  be. 

This  is  an  initial  step  toward  measurable  reductions  in 
microbial  contamination  and  a  first  step  toward  the  even- 
tual incorporation  of  microbial  testing  as  an  integral  part 
of  process  control  and  verification  in  plants  operating 
under  the  HACCP  approach.  FSIS  intends  to  work  to- 
ward setting  more  definitive  targets,  guidelines,  or  stan- 
dards, including  the  possible  identification  of  levels  of 
specific  pathogens  that  pose  a  safety  concern  and  the 
use  of  those  levels  for  regulatory  purposes.  Even  as 
the  scientific  basis  for  such  standards  develops,  how- 
ever, FSIS  believes  that  significant  reductions  in  the 
risk  of  foodborne  illness  can  be  achieved  by  requiring 
compliance  with  interim  targets  for  pathogen  reduction. 

Salmonella  was  selected  as  the  target  pathogen  be- 
cause it  is  the  leading  cause  of  foodborne  illness,  it  is 
present  on  virtually  all  raw  food  products,  and  it  can 
easily  be  recovered  from  a  variety  of  products.  Reduc- 
tions in  Salmonella  should  also  result  in  reductions  of 
other  human  pathogens. 

Each  plant  would  be  required  to  develop  a  written  pro- 
tocol, available  for  review  by  the  inspector  in  charge, 
outlining  specimen  collection  and  handling. 


The  results  would  be  entered  into  a  moving  sum  pro- 
cess control  table  or  chart,  which  provides  immediate 
feedback  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  control  system. 

Plants  that  are  not  achieving  the  established  targets 
for  pathogen  reduction  within  the  period  specified  by 
FSIS  would  be  required  to  take  corrective  action  under 
FSIS  supervision  to  improve  process  control  to  achieve 
the  target. 

Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical 
Control  Points  (HACCP)  Systems 

FSIS  is  proposing  that  federally  inspected  meat  and 
poultry  plants  adopt  HACCP  systems  to  provide  docu- 
mentation that  their  processes  are  in  control  and  pro- 
ducing safe  products.  The  HACCP  approach  is  a  pre- 
ventive system  of  process  control  that  is  widely  recog- 
nized by  scientific  authorities  and  international  organi- 
zations and  is  used  in  the  food  industry  to  produce  prod- 
uct in  compliance  with  health  and  safety  requirements. 

Implementation  of  HACCP  would  clarify  that  the  indus- 
try, not  the  inspection  service,  is  responsible  for  pro- 
ducing safe  meat  and  poultry  products.  With  HACCP 
in  place,  FSIS  would  verify  that  the  plant  is  controlling 
its  processes  and  consistently  producing  products  that 
comply  with  food  safety  requirements. 

HACCP  systems  would  cover  those  critical  control 
points  (CCP's)  that  affect  product  safety,  as  opposed 
to  those  related  to  economic  adulteration  and  quality. 
A  HACCP  plan  would  be  required  for  each  type  of  pro- 
cessing activity  carried  out  by  the  plant.  FSIS  would 
not  approve  HACCP  plans  in  advance  but  would  evalu- 
ate their  effectiveness  as  part  of  the  inspection  pro- 
cess. 

Plants  would  be  required  to  develop  HACCP  plans 
based  on  the  seven  principles  articulated  by  the  Na- 
tional Advisory  Committee  on  Microbiological  Criteria 
for  Foods: 

(1 )  Conduct  a  hazard  analysis; 

(2)  Identify  the  CCP's  in  the  process; 

(3)  Establish  critical  limits  for  preventive 
measures  associated  with  each  identified 
CCP; 

(4)  Establish  CCP  monitoring  requirements; 


4 


(5)  Establish  corrective  action; 

(6)  Establish  effective  recordkeeping 
procedures;  and 

(7)  Establish  procedures  for  verifying  that  the 
HACCP  system  is  working  correctly. 

Implementation  would  be  phased  in,  based  on  the  type 
of  production  process.  It  is  proposed  that  implementa- 
tion for  processes  associated  with  the  greatest  public 
health  risk  would  begin  12  months  after  publication  of 
the  final  rule.  Implementation  would  be  complete  36 
months  after  publication  of  the  final  rule.  Small  estab- 
lishments, which  FSIS  is  proposing  to  define  as  those 
with  an  annual  production  valued  at  or  below  $2.5 
million,  would  be  permitted  36  months  from  the  date  of 
publication  of  the  final  rule  to  start  their  HACCP  plans, 
regardless  of  the  processes  they  carry  out. 

Food  Safety  from  Farm  to  Table 

The  proposed  regulations  address  product  safety  only 
within  the  plant  environment.  The  Agency  recognizes 
that  ensuring  food  safety  requires  taking  steps  through- 
out the  chain  of  production,  processing,  distribution,  and 
sale  to  prevent  hazards  and  reduce  the  risk  of  foodborne 
illness.  To  minimize  the  growth  of  pathogens  once  a 
product  leaves  the  plant,  FSIS  is  announcing  its  intent 
to  initiate  rulemaking  with  the  Food  and  Drug  Adminis- 
tration (FDA)  to  establish  Federal  standards  for  the  safe 
transportation  of  foods.  FSIS  will  also  work  with  FDA 
to  ensure  food  safety  at  the  retail  level  by  encouraging 
States  to  adopt  and  enforce  consistent,  science-based 
standards. 

Although  animal  production  food  safety  is  not  the  sub- 
ject of  this  regulatory  proposal,  FSIS  also  will  work  with 
animal  producers  and  others  to  develop  and  implement 
food  safety  measures  that  can  be  taken  on  the  farm 
and  before  animals  enter  the  slaughter  facility  to  re- 
duce the  risk  of  harmful  contamination  of  meat  and 
poultry  products. 

In  addition,  the  Agency  will  continue  its  comprehensive 
food  handler  education  programs  to  inform  the  public 
and  those  who  prepare  and  serve  food  to  the  public  on 
how  to  properly  handle,  prepare,  and  store  meat  and 
poultry  products  to  minimize  the  growth  of  foodborne 
pathogens. 


Health-Based  Standards  for 
Pathogenic  Microorganisms 

The  proposed  requirement  that  plants  achieve  a  cer- 
tain reduction  in  the  incidence  of  Salmonella  is  an  ini- 
tial step  toward  articulating  an  acceptable  level  of  food 
safety  performance.  The  broader  task  of  identifying 
levels  of  specific  pathogens  that  pose  a  threat  to  public 
health  is  complex.  FSIS  intends  to  hold  one  or  more 
public  meetings  to  explore  this  and  other  topics  with 
interested  parties  and  intends  to  work  closely  with  gov- 
ernment and  public  health  agencies,  academia,  indus- 
try, and  consumer  groups  to  develop  the  scientific  ba- 
sis for  microbial  risk  assessment  and  health-based 
performance  standards  for  pathogenic  microorganisms. 

Technology  Development 

Because  the  development  and  proper  use  of  technol- 
ogy can  contribute  significantly  to  improving  the  safety 
of  the  food  supply,  FSIS  is  encouraging  technology 
development  in  several  ways.  First,  by  setting  public 
health  standards,  the  Agency  believes  it  is  providing  a 
heightened  incentive  to  take  innovative  steps  to  improve 
food  safety.  Second,  FSIS  will  review  its  policies  and 
procedures  governing  the  review  and  approval  of  in- 
plant  technologies  to  simplify  them  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, while  ensuring  that  safety  and  efficacy  are  not 
compromised.  Third,  FSIS  will  focus  its  own  limited 
technology  development  resources  on  tools  that  can 
assist  the  Agency  in  detecting  and  evaluating  food 
safety  hazards  and  on  research  that  requires  a  long- 
term  commitment. 

FSIS  Inspection  Roles 

FSIS  must  consider  the  future  roles  of  its  inspection 
force.  FSIS  intends  to  work  closely  with  the  bargaining 
unit  and  employee  organizations  in  formulating  its  plan 
for  inspection  under  HACCP.  FSIS  must  consider  a 
number  of  issues,  including 

(1)  what  additional  tasks  FSIS  inspectors 
should  be  performing  under  HACCP, 

(2)  what  the  role  of  FSIS  inspectors  should 
be  in  ensuring  that  Federal  standards  are 
met  during  transportation  and  at  the  retail 
level,  and 

(3)  what  new  inspection  tools  and  techniques 
are  needed  in  a  regulatory  environment 
where  greater  responsibility  for  safety  is 
being  placed  on  industry. 

5 


Administration  Food  Safety  Initiatives 

These  initiatives  build  on  a  number  of  important  steps 
already  undertaken  by  the  Administration  to  strengthen 
and  update  the  Federal  inspection  program  for  meat 
and  poultry  products.  They  include: 

(1 )  the  elevation  of  food  safety  to  a  sub-Cabi- 
net-level  responsibility  within  the  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture, 

(2)  development  of  pathogen  reduction  leg- 
islation to  target  microbial  pathogens  in 
meat  and  poultry  products  and  reduce  the 
risks  of  foodborne  illness, 

(3)  declaration  of  E.  co// 01 57:H7  in  raw 
ground  beef  to  be  an  illegal  adulterant  and 
initiation  of  a  sampling  program  for  raw 
ground  beef. 


(4)  streamlined  approval  of  antimicrobial 
treatments  to  help  the  beef  industry  move 
faster  to  install  new  technologies  to  reduce 
pathogens; 

(5)  initiation  of  unannounced  reviews  in  1 ,000 
meat  and  poultry  plants  to  enforce  inspec- 
tion requirements, 

(6)  implementation  of  mandatory  safe 
handling  instructions  on  labels  of  meat 
and  poultry  products,  and 

(7)  increased  funding  for  food  safety 
research. 


To  obtain  paper  or  disltette  copies  of  the  proposal  contact: 

National  Technical  Information  Service  (NTIS) 
U.  S.  Department  of  Commerce 
5285  Port  Royal  Road 
Springfield,  VA  22161 

(Reference  NTIS  accession  number  PB95- 1 6602 1  for  a  paper  copy 
and  PB95-502217  for  the  diskette  version). 

For  telephone  orders  or  further  information  on  placing  an  order,  call  NTIS  at  (703)  487-4650 
for  regular  service  or  (800)  533-NTIS  for  rush  service. 

To  order  the  proposal  electronically  and  download  via  FedWorld,  dial  (703)  321-8020 

with  a  modem  or  Telnet  fedworld.gov.  For  technical  assistance  to  access  FedWorld,  call  (703)  487-4608. 


For  more  information 

Technical  Inquiries:  (202)  720-7773 

Media  Inquiries:  (202)  720-91 1 3 

Congressional  Inquiries:  (202)  720-3897 

Constituent  Inquiries:  (202)  720-7943 

Consumer  Inquiries: 

Call  USDA's  Meat  and  Poultry  Hotline  at:  1  -800-535-4555 

In  the  Washington,  D.C.  area,  call:  (202)  720-3333 


6 


/  A  Fann-to-Table 

y//  ,  .  _    Food  Safety  Strategy 


The  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  Is 
pursuing  a  broad,  long  term  science-based  strategy  to 
address  food  safety  from  the  farm  to  the  table.  The 
strategy  expands  the  agency's  food  safety  mission  to 
consider  potential  hazards  throughout  the  food 
production  and  delivery  system.  The  strategy  is  open 
to  public  comment  for  120  days,  and  FSIS  will  actively 
seek  ideas  of  consumers,  scientists,  employees  and 
industry. 

The  inspection  laws  FSIS  administers  focus  on 
activities  inside  federally  inspected  meat  and  poultry 
plants  to  ensure  product  entering  into  commerce  is 
unadulterated  and  properly  labeled.  To  improve  the 


safety  of  meat  and  poultry  products  produced  in  these 
plants,  FSIS  is  proposing  pathogen  reduction  and 
Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points  (HACCP) 
measures  to  reduce  the  levels  of  pathogenic 
microorganisms  on  meat  and  poultry  products  and  the 
incidence  of  foodborne  illness  associated  with  these 
products.  As  part  of  its  food  safety  strategy  and  public 
health  mandate,  FSIS  will  continue  to  educate 
consumers  about  safe  food  handling  practices  to 
reduce  the  risk  of  food  poisoning.  FSIS  is  also  working 
with  the  animal  production,  transportation,  distribution 
and  retail  sectors  of  the  food  industry  to  ensure  the 
whole  system  Is  working  effectively  to  prevent  food 
safety  problems. 


Proposed  in-piant  activities 

•  FSIS  is  proposing  new  near-term  and  long-term 
requirements  to  establish  systematic,  preventive 
measures  to  eliminate  and  reduce  the  presence  of 
pathogenic  microorganisms  in  meat  and  poultry 
products.  Under  the  proposal,  near-term 
requirements  would  be  implemented  within  90  days 
of  the  publication  of  a  final  regulation: 

— All  plants  would  develop  and  use  written  standard 
operating  procedures  for  plant  sanitation. 

— Slaughter  plants  would  use  at  least  one 
antimicrobial  treatment  to  reduce  the  levels  of 
pathogenic  microorganisms  on  carcass  surfaces. 

— All  plants  would  have  to  follow  proposed  time  and 
temperature  requirements  for  chilling  finished 
carcasses  and  parts  after  slaughter. 

•  FSIS  would  establish  interim  targets  for  pathogen 
reduction  and  mandate  daily  microbial  testing  in 
slaughter  plants  to  ensure  targets  are  being  met. 
Microbiological  testing  would  be  required  90  days 
after  a  final  regulation  is  published. 

•  FSIS  would  require  all  plants  to  develop  and 
implement  HACCP  systems  to  identify  and  prevent 
microbial  and  other  hazards  in  food  production. 
HACCP  would  be  implemented  over  a  three  year 
period. 


•  While  FSIS  new  regulatory  proposal  focuses  on  in- 
plant  activities,  the  agency  recognizes  that  measures 
to  ensure  the  safety  of  meat  and  poultry  products 
must  be  taken  at  all  stages  of  animal  production, 
slaughter,  processing,  distribution,  sale  and 
preparation. 

On-farm  activities 

•  FSIS  will  work  closely  with  academic  researchers, 
other  government  agencies,  producer  groups,  and 
consumer  organizations  to  help  shape  an 
appropriate  research  agenda  and  devise  effective 
on-farm  food  safety  strategies. 

•  Better  animal  husbandry  and  on-farm  hazard  control 
measures  such  as  sanitary  bedding  offer  the 
potential  to  reduce  or  eliminate  pathogenic  bacteria 
on  food  animals. 

•  FSIS  will  work  with  animal  producers  and  others  to 
develop  and  put  into  place  voluntary  food  safety 
measures,  such  as  voluntary  quality  assurance 
systems  with  built  in  steps  to  prevent  potential 
contamination  of  live  animals. 

Retail  and  transportation  activities 

•  FSIS  monitors  food  products  in  commerce  after  they 
leave  inspected  facilities  to  ensure  compliance  with 
laws  prohibiting  adulteration  or  misbranding  of  food. 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  &  Inspection  Service 


However,  state  and  local  governments  provide  most 
of  the  resources  devoted  to  overseeing  the  safety  of 
food  during  transportation  to  and  sale  from  retail 
establishments. 

•  FSIS  will  encourage  States  to  adopt  and  enforce 
science-based  standards  consistent  with  those  the 
agency  is  proposing  to  ensure  food  safety  at  the  retail 
level. 

•  FSIS  is  reviewing  the  effectiveness  of  its  program  in 
the  area  of  transportation  of  meat  and  poultry 
products,  and  handling  and  preparation  of  products 
by  retail  stores,  restaurants  and  institutions. 

•  FSIS  will  continue  to  work  jointly  with  the  Food  and 
Drug  Administration  (FDA)  to  establish  federal 
standards  for  safe  handling  of  food  during 
transportation,  distribution,  and  storage  prior  to 
delivery  to  retail  stores. 

•  The  agency  is  working  in  conjunction  with  FDA  in 
the  following  two  areas: 

(1)  FSIS  continues  to  work  closely  with  FDA  in 
providing  food  safety  guidance  to  retail  stores,  most 
recently  in  the  publication  of  the  updated  Food  Code, 
which  FSIS  and  FDA  will  encourage  the  States  to 
adopt.  The  Food  Code  is  a  model  ordinance 
intended  to  serve  as  a  guide  for  State  and  local 
authorities,  who  have  primary  jurisdiction  over  retail 
stores  and  restaurants. 


(2)  FSIS  and  FDA  have  recently  agreed  to  work 
together  to  develop  guidelines  for  conveyances  used 
to  transport  food  products  and  to  engage  in  joint 
rulemaking  on  standards  to  ensure  food  safety  during 
transport. 

Food  safety  education 

•  FSIS  will  continue  its  comprehensive  consumer 
education  programs  to  inform  the  public  on  how  to 
properly  handle,  prepare,  and  store  meat  and  poultry 
products  to  minimize  the  growth  of  foodborne 
pathogens. 


For  technical  information,  call 
Judith  Segal  (202)  720-7773 


January  1995 


ProjX)sccl  wSanitalioii 
Standard  Operating 
/  Procedures 


Good  sanitation  is  a  fundamental  requirement  of  federal 
meat  and  poultry  inspection  laws  and  is  necessary  for 
safe  food  production.  Yet,  poor  sanitation  practices, 
such  as  improper  cleaning  of  facilities  and  equipment, 
are  the  most  frequent  deficiencies  found  in  some  meat 
and  poultry  plants.  There  is  a  direct  and  substantial 
link  between  insanitary  practices  in  meat  and  poultry 
plants  and  the  likelihood  of  product  contamination  with 
pathogenic  bacteria. 


Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedures  (SOPs)  are 
one  of  the  near-term  requirements  FSIS  is  proposing 
as  part  of  its  strategy  to  reduce  the  incidence  of 
pathogens  in  meat  and  poultry  products.  FS/S  w/7/ 
actively  seek  the  ideas  of  consumers,  employees 
scientists  and  industry.  The  proposed  SOPs  would 
become  effective  90  days  from  publication  of  a  final 
rule. 


•  USDA  is  proposing  that  federally  inspected  meat  and 
poultry  plants  develop  written  sanitation  SOPs  to 
show  how  they  meet  basic  sanitation  requirements 
every  day. 

•  Meat  and  poultry  plants  would  document  and 
maintain  daily  records  or  checklists  of  completed 
sanitation  procedures,  and  make  them  available  to 
the  USDA  inspector  for  review  and  verification. 

•  The  proposal  would  institute  a  process  to  ensure 
better  compliance  with  existing  federal  sanitation 
requirements.  It  would  not  impose  new  sanitation 
requirements. 

•  Recent  FSIS  unannounced  reviews  of  1,000 
federally  inspected  meat  and  poultry  plants  found 
more  frequent  and  serious  deficiencies  in  sanitation 
than  in  other  areas  examined. 

•  Traditionally,  some  federally  inspected  meat  and 
poultry  plants  have  relied  heavily  on  inspectors  to 
identify  deficiencies  on  a  daily  basis. 


•  Under  the  proposed  changes,  the  initial  respon- 
sibility for  identifying  and  addressing  sanitation 
deficiencies  in  each  plant  would  be  clearly  placed 
on  the  plant. 

•  Inspectors  would  verify  that  plants  are  complying  with 
sanitation  SOPs,  while  continuing  to  directly  observe 
conditions  in  the  plant. 

•  SOPs  would  include,  but  not  be  limited  to, 
procedures  the  plant  would  conduct  to  prevent 
contamination  before  and  during  operation  that  can 
result  in  product  adulteration. 

•  If  sanitation  SOPs  are  not  followed,  USDA  would 
take  appropriate  actions  to  ensure  no  product  is 
produced  under  insanitary  conditions. 

For  technical  information,  call 
Isabel  Arrington  (202)  720-7905 


January  1995 


U.S.  Dcpartiiicnl  of  AgriciilUirc 
FcH)d  Safely  t'<i  Inspcciit)n  Service 


p^/ Proposed  Time  and 
^y^ii,,^^       Temperature  Controls 


Temperature  is  one  of  the  primary  factors  affecting  the 
increase  of  bacteria  in  raw  products.  Pathogenic 
bacteria  on  raw  meat  and  poultry  products  multiply 
rapidly  at  warm  temperatures,  over  time.  However, 
virtually  all  pathogenic  bacteria  stop  multiplying  at  40 
degrees  Fahrenheit  (F)  or  below.  Therefore,  the  soorier 
raw  product  can  be  chilled  to  and  maintained  at  that 
temperature,  the  less  likely  any  pathogens  present  will 
multiply  to  hazardous  levels  in  the  finished  product. 


Time  and  temperature  controls  are  one  of  the  near- 
term  requirements  USDA  is  proposing  to  reduce  the 
risk  of  hazardous  levels  of  pathogens  in  raw  meat  and 
poultry  products  reaching  consumers.  This  regulatory 
process  control  would  become  effective  90  days  from 
publication  of  a  final  regulation.  FSIS  will  actively  seek 
the  ideas  of  consumers,  employees,  scientists  and 
industry. 


•  USDA  would  require  meat  and  poultry  plants  to 
develop  a  written  plan  for  meeting  time  and 
temperature  requirements  specified  in  the 
regulations. 

•  To  minimize  the  growth  of  pathogenic 
microorganisms,  the  proposed  rule  would  require 
plants  to  chill  carcass  surfaces  and  hot-boned 
meat — which  is  meat  removed  from  bone  before  the 
carcass  cools — to  50  F  (10  degrees  Celsius)  within 
5  hours  and  then  to  40  F  (4.4  C)  within  24  hours  of 
slaughter  or  meat  and  bone  separation.  Meat 
products  such  as  liver  and  cheek  meat  would  begin 
chilling  within  one  hour  of  removal  from  the  carcass. 
Raw  meat  and  poultry  products  would  be  maintained 
at  40  F  or  below  to  prevent  any  pathogenic  bacteria 
that  may  be  present  on  the  surface  of  the  raw 
products  from  multiplying. 

•  The  proposed  action  would  make  poultry  cooling 
requirements  consistent  with  those  for  meat.  The 
cooling  rates  for  poultry  carcasses  would  be  based 
on  the  surface  temperature  rather  than  the  weight  of 
the  bird.  Faster  cooling  rates  for  poultry  would  be 
based  on  wetness  of  the  product  since  wetness 
facilitates  rapid  bacterial  growth. 


•  Chilling  is  required  of  all  raw  product  unless  it  moves 
directly  from  the  slaughter  line  to  heat  processing, 
which  destroys  pathogens. 

•  Raw  products  would  be  shipped  to  other  plants  at 
40  F  or  below  and  maintained  at  that  temperature. 

•  Raw  products  that  have  not  been  chilled  and  held  at 
specified  times  and  temperatures  would  require 
further  processing  to  kill  pathogens  or  be 
condemned. 

•  The  proposed  time  and  temperature  requirements 
would  be  well  within  the  parameters  of  customary 
and  usual  industry  chilling  practices  used  to  inhibit 
growth  of  spoilage  bacteria. 

•  The  proposed  requirements  would  be  new  only  for 
plants  producing  raw  meat  because  comparable 
requirements  already  exist  for  poultry. 


For  technical  information,  call 
Carl  Custer  (202)  501-7321 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  ol"  Agrieulture 
Food  Safety  &  Inspeetion  Service 


Proposed 

Antimicrobial 

Treatments 


Despite  the  best  efforts  to  reduce  or  eliminate 
contamination  during  slaughter  and  processing, 
pathogenic  bacteria  still  may  be  present  on  livestock 
and  poultry  carcasses. 


•  e  *  e  « 


products.  The  proposed  regulatory  requirement  would 
go  into  effect  90  days  from  the  publication  of  a  final 
regulation.  FSIS  will  actively  seek  the  ideas  of 
consumers,  employees,  scientists  and  industry. 


Antimicrobial  treatments  are  one  of  the  near-term 
requirements  USDA  is  proposing  to  reduce  the 
incidence  of  pathogens  in  raw  meat  and  poultry 


•  The  proposal  would  require  every  federally  inspected 
meat  and  poultry  slaughter  plant  to  treat  fresh 
carcasses  with  a  process  shown  to  reduce 
pathogenic  bacteria  on  carcass  surfaces. 

•  To  reduce  spoilage  and  other  bacteria,  many  meat 
and  poultry  plants  have  incorporated  antimicrobial 
treatments  or  "interventions"  into  their  slaughter 
operations  that  have  been  shown  to  greatly  reduce 
the  levels  of  any  bacteria  that  may  be  present. 

•  Requiring  all  federally  inspected  slaughter  plants  to 
employ  at  least  one  such  treatment  will  not,  by  itself, 
solve  the  problem  of  contamination  with  pathogenic 
bacteria,  but  is  one  step  among  many  that  can 
reduce  the  risk  of  raw  product  reaching  the  consumer 
with  hazardous  levels  of  pathogenic  bacteria. 

•  Antimicrobial  treatments  will  not  be  permitted  to 
substitute  for  strict  compliance  with  sanitary 
slaughter  and  carcass  dressing  procedures;  e.g.,  no 
visible  fecal  contamination  will  be  permitted  on  the 
carcass  before  the  treatment  is  applied. 


•  Three  kinds  of  antimicrobial  treatments  have  been 
shown  to  substantially  reduce  bacteria  levels  and 
are  being  authorized  for  use  to  meet  the  proposed 
requirement: 

(1)  Hot  water,  applied  so  that  the  temperature  of 
the  water  on  the  carcass  surfaces  is  at  least  1 65 
degrees  Fahrenheit  (F)  (74  degrees  Celsius)  for  at 
least  10  seconds; 

(2)  Use  of  antimicrobial  compounds,  as  approved 
for  use  in  FSIS  regulations  or  in  Food  and  Drug 
Administration  regulations  with  FSIS's  approval 
(These  compounds  currently  include  use  of  lactic, 
acetic  and  citric  acid  sprays  on  meat  or  poultry 
carcasses,  and  trisodium  phosphate  sprays  on 
poultry  carcasses.);  and 

(3)  Use  of  chlorinated  water  as  a  final  carcass  wash. 
Chlorinated  water  is  currently  the  most  commonly 
used  intervention. 

•  FSIS  is  encouraging  the  development  of  other 
treatments  that  will  have  similar  or  better 
antimicrobial  effects. 

For  technical  information,  call 
Bill  James  (202)  720-3219 


January  1995 


U.S.  Dcparlmciil  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safely  &  Inspection  Service 


■ Proposed  Microbial  Testing 
f./'  iind  Interim  Targets  for 

^^.-  ''  '"^  Pathogen  Reduction 


FSIS  is  proposing  to  set  interim  targets  for  pathogen 
reduction  and  to  require  microbial  testing  as  a  means 
of  reducing  the  Incidence  of  pathogenic  microorganisms 
on  meat  and  poultry  products. 

The  proposed  actions  are  first  steps  toward  requiring 
all  meat  and  poultry  plants  to  set  up  Hazard  Analysis 
and  Critical  Control  Points  (HACCP)  systems,  which 


Include  end-point  microbial  testing  to  verify  the 
effectiveness  of  control  systems  in  preventing  microbial 
contamination. 

Microbiological  testing  would  be  required  90  days  after 
publication  of  the  final  rule.  Plants  would  begin  tracking 
of  test  results  6  months  after  the  rule  Is  published.  FSIS 
will  actively  seek  the  ideas  of  consumers,  employees, 
scientists  and  industry  on  its  proposal. 


•  FSIS  proposes  to  set  microbiological  criteria  to  define 
acceptable  performance  by  a  meat  or  poultry  plant 
and  to  hold  the  plant  accountable  for  achieving  at 
least  that  level  of  performance. 

•  Under  the  proposal,  plants  would  conduct  microbial 
testing,  at  least  once  a  day,  for  Salmonella.  Test 
results  over  time  could  be  used  to  verify  that  the  plant 
has  Its  production  processes  under  control  or  to  show 
whether  remedial  measures  are  needed. 

•  Salmonella  was  selected  as  a  target  organism  for 
several  reasons  in  addition  to  its  being  the  most 
commonly  reported  cause  of  foodborne  Illness  linked 
to  meat  or  poultry  products. 

•  Interventions  that  reduce  Salmonella  levels  have 
comparable  effects  against  most  other  foodborne 
pathogens  from  animals  Intestines;  methods  are 
available  to  recover  the  organisms  from  a  variety  of 
meat  and  poultry  products;  and  FSIS  baseline 
studies  suggest  that  It  colonizes  in  a  variety  of 
animals  and  birds  frequently  enough  for  detecting 
and  monitoring  changes. 

•  The  goal  Is  for  all  plants  to  produce  meat  and  poultry 
products  with  Salmonella  occurring  no  more 
frequently  than  at  the  national  baseline  average. 

•  Each  plant  would  develop  a  written  protocol  for 
sampling,  which  would  be  available  for  review  by 
the  Inspector-ln-Charge. 


•  For  meat,  samples  would  be  collected  before 
carcasses  leave  the  cooler;  for  poultry.  Immediately 
after  the  birds  leave  the  chiller;  and  for  raw  ground 
meat  and  poultry,  specimens  would  be  collected 
before  the  products  are  packaged  and  frozen. 

•  Plants  could  test  for  Salmonella  In  their  own 
laboratories  or  In  a  commercial/contract  laboratory 
with  demonstrated  experience  in  testing  meat  and 
poultry  for  Salmonella. 

•  Laboratories  would  be  required  to  make  their  quality 
control  records  available  to  FSIS  upon  request  to 
verify  their  capability,  and  they  would  have  to  provide 
daily  test  results  to  plants. 

•  Plants  are  responsible  for  analyzing  their  own  data 
and  would  have  to  make  data  available  to  Inspection 
personnel. 

•  The  data  would  be  evaluated  using  a  "moving  sum 
procedure"  in  which  the  number  of  positive  samples 
obtained  over  a  set  time  period  are  totaled. 

•  The  sums  could  not  exceed  acceptable  limits 
proposed  for  each  species  and  for  raw  ground 
products.  The  procedure  Is  spelled  out  In  the 
proposal. 

•  Once  a  week  each  plant  would  provide  data  to  FSIS 
to  verify  that  the  plant  Is  testing  as  required,  and  to 
determine  national  trends. 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  of  Agrieullure 
Food  Safety  &  inspection  Service 


•  FSIS  continues  to  encourage  meat  and  poultry  plants 
to  put  HACCP  programs  in  place  as  soon  as 
possible. 

•  Under  the  proposal,  plants  that  have  HACCP 
programs  and  that  can  show  their  products  meet  or 


exceed  the  proposed  targets  and  have  verification 
programs  could  request  FSIS  approval  to  use  their 
procedures  instead  of  the  proposed  microbial 
verification  procedures. 

For  technical  information,  call 
Richard  Carnevale  (202)  205-0675 


January  1995 


/  ■  -  na/.tuu  /^MiiiiyM^  iiiiu 

y  Critical  Control  Point 

V    -      (HACCP)  Systems 


HACCP  is  a  process  control  system  designed  to  identify 
and  prevent  microbial  and  other  hazards  in  food 
production  and  includes  systematic  steps  to  prevent 
problems  from  occurring  in  the  first  place  and  correct 
deviations  as  soon  as  they  are  detected. 

USDA  is  proposing  that  all  meat  and  poultry  plants 
implement  HACCP  systems.  Preventive  control 
systems  with  documentation  and  verification  are  widely 
recognized  by  scientific  authorities  and  international 
organizations  as  the  most  effective  approach  available 


for  producing  safe  food.  Plants  would  be  required  to 
develop  HACCP  plans  to  monitor  and  control  their 
operations.  The  FSIS  HACCP  proposal  clearly  defines 
industry's  responsibility  for  producing  a  safe, 
wholesome,  and  unadulterated  product.  It  also 
emphasizes  that  FSIS'  role  is  to  verify  that  the  meat 
and  poultry  industries  are  meeting  federal  requirements 
for  food  safety.  FSIS  will  actively  seek  the  ideas  of 
consumers,  employees,  scientists  and  industry. 


•  HACCP  is  accepted  by  scientific  and  food  safety 
authorities,  such  as  the  National  Academy  of 
Sciences  and  the  National  Advisory  Committee  on 
Microbiological  Criteria  for  Foods,  and  international 
organizations,  such  as  the  Codex  Alimentarius 
Commission  and  the  lntei;national  Commission  on 
Microbiological  Specifications  for  Foods. 

•  FSIS  is  proposing  to  phase  in  HACCP  throughout 
the  regulated  industry  over  a  3-year  period.  Small 
establishments  would  be  phased  in  during  the  final 
stage. 

•  The  proposed  regulations  would  also  apply  to  foreign 
countries  that  import  meat  and  poultry  products  into 
the  United  States. 

•  The  HACCP  system  consists  of  seven  principles  that 
plants  must  incorporate  into  their  operation  plans. 
The  seven  principles  include  hazard  analysis,  critical 
control  point  identification,  establishment  of  critical 
limits,  monitoring  procedures,  corrective  actions, 
recordkeeping,  and  verification  procedures. 

•  Principle  No.  1:  Conduct  a  hazard  analysis.  Plants 
identify  the  points  in  their  food  production  process 
where  significant  hazards  could  occur  and  describe 
preventive  measures  that  will  be  taken  to  keep 

-  hazards  from  occurring.  HACCP  does  not  address 
quality  issues. 

•  Principle  No.  2:  Identify  the  critical  control  point 
(CCP)  in  the  process.  A  CCP  is  a  point,  step  or 


procedure  at  which  control  can  be  applied,  and  a 
food  safety  hazard  can  be  prevented,  eliminated,  or 
reduced  to  an  acceptable  level. 

•  FSIS  is  proposing  to  require  that  processors  in  their 
HACCP  plans  identify  critical  control  points  to 
address  and  control  all  significant  food  safety 
hazards — chemical,  physical  and  biological, 
including  microbiological  contamination. 

•  Examples  of  CCP's  may  include,  but  are  not  limited 
to  cooking,  chilling,  specific  sanitation  procedures, 
antimicrobial  treatments,  product  formulation  control, 
prevention  of  cross  contamination,  and  certain 
aspects  of  employee  and  environmental  hygiene.  All 
CCP's  must  be  carefully  developed  and  documented. 

•  Principle  No.  3:  Establish  critical  limits  for  preventive 
measures  associated  with  each  identified  CCP.  A 
critical  limit  is  a  criterion  that  must  be  met  for  each 
preventive  measure  associated  with  a  CCP. 

•  Critical  limits  must  reflect  relevant  FSIS  regulations, 
FDA  tolerances,  and  action  levels,  where 
appropriate. 

•  Critical  limits  are  most  often  based  on  process 
parameters,  such  as  temperatures,  time,  physical 
dimensions,  humidity,  moisture  level,  water  activity, 
Ph,  acidity,  salt  concentration  and  others,  as  well  as 
sensory  information,  such  as  texture,  aroma,  visual 
appearance  relating  to  the  growth  or  survival  of  target 
pathogens,  chemical  or  physical  hazards. 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Saicly  &  Inspection  Service 


•  Principle  No.  4:  Establish  CCP  monitoring 
requirements  and  establish  procedures  for  using  the 
results  of  monitoring  to  adjust  the  process  and 
maintain  control  to  meet  a  specified  standard. 

•  Monitoring  activities  are  necessary  to  ensure  that 
the  process  is  in  fact  under  control  at  each  critical 
control  point. 

•  FSIS  is  proposing  to  require  that  procedures  for 
monitoring  each  critical  control  point  be  identified  in 
the  HACCP  plan,  including  ensuring  that  the 
monitoring  systems  are  capable  of  detecting  process 
deviations,  such  as  product  segregation  and  holding 
procedures.  The  monitoring  procedures  must  also 
indicate  the  effect  of  deviations  on  product  safety, 
indicators  for  modification  of  the  HACCP  plan,  and 
the  plant  employee  responsible  for  monitoring 
activities. 

•  Monitoring  may  require  materials  or  devices  to 
measure,  test  or  otherwise  evaluate  the  process  at 
critical  control  points. 

•  Principle  No.  5:  Establish  corrective  actions  to  be 
taken  when  monitoring  indicates  a  deviation  from 
an  established  critical  limit. 

•  Although  the  process  of  developing  a  HACCP  plan 
emphasizes  preventive  action,  there  is  no  guarantee 
that  problems  will  not  arise. 

•  FSIS  is  proposing  to  require  that  meat  and  poultry 
plants  describe  in  their  HACCP  plans  the  corrective 
actions  that  will  be  taken  if  a  critical  limit  is  not  met. 


Corrective  actions  must  be  specified  in  sufficient 
detail  to  ensure  that  no  public  health  hazard  exists 
after  these  actions  have  been  taken. 

•  Principle  No.  6:  Establish  effective  recordkeeping 
procedures  for  the  HACCP  system. 

•  USDA  is  proposing  to  require  that  the  HACCP  plan 
provide  a  recordkeeping  system  that  will  document 
the  processor's  CCP  monitoring,  verification 
activities,  and  deviation  records. 

•  Principle  No.  7:  Establish  procedures  for  verifying 
the  HACCP  system  is  working  correctly.  Verification 
procedures  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  review 
of  HACCP  plan,  CCP  records,  critical  limits  and 
microbial  sampling  and  analysis. 

•  FSIS  is  proposing  to  require  that  the  HACCP  plan 
include  a  set  of  verification  tasks  to  be  performed  by 
plant  personnel.  Verification  tasks  would  also  be 
performed  by  FSIS  inspectors. 

•  It  is  envisioned  that  meat  and  poultry  plants  and  FSIS 
will  undertake  final  product  testing  as  one  of  several 
verification  activities. 

•  Verification  links  HACCP  with  the  key  element  of  the 
FSIS  regulatory  strategy  for  pathogenic 
microorganisms,  which  is  the  establishment  of  public 
health-oriented  targets,  guidelines  and  standards 
meat  and  poultry  plants  must  meet  to  satisfy  their 
food  safety  responsibility. 

For  technical  information,  call 
Dorothy  Stringfellow  (202)  690-2087 


January  1995 


Compliance 
Schedule 


The  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  is 
proposing  new  measures  in  inspection  to  target  and 
reduce  the  presence  of  pathogenic  microorganisms  in 
meat  and  poultry  products.  These  measures  include 
sanitation  standards  operating  procedures, 
antimicrobial  treatments,  time  and  temperature 
controls,  microbial  testing  and  a  mandatory  Hazard 
Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points  (HACCP)  system 
in  all  meat  and  poultry  plants. 


FSIS  would  use  existing  enforcement  authority,  when 
necessary,  to  ensure  that  plants  comply  with  new 
requirements.  FSIS  will  actively  seek  the  ideas  of 
consumers,  employees,  scientists  and  industry  on  the 
food  safety  proposal. 


Proposals  to  be  phased-in  within  90  days 

•  Sanitation  requirements  -  Plants  would  be 
expected  to  have  a  written  sanitation  plan  and  keep 
daily  records  documenting  their  adherence  to  it. 

•  Antimicrobial  treatments  -  Slaughter  plants  would 
have  to  start  using  a  process  to  reduce  harmful 
bacteria  on  meat  surfaces. 

•  Temperature  controls  -  Plants  would  have  to  chill 
raw  product  within  specified  timeframes  and  hold 
products  at  temperatures  that  slow  bacterial  growth. 

•  For  failure  to  comply  with  the  three  requirements, 
plants  could  be  subject  to  a  range  of  enforcement 
actions  including:  a)  Being  required  to  document 
why  the  violation  occurred  and  provide  a  plan  to 
prevent  future  violations;  b)  Having  suspect  product 
retained  until  FSIS  can  decide  whether  it  is  safe  or 
can  be  made  safe  through  further  processing  or 
some  other  method;  c)  Having  plant  operation 
delayed  or  inspection  temporarily  withheld — which 
means  the  plant  cannot  operate;  and  d)  completely 
withdrawing  inspection — which  would  permanently 
close  a  plant. 

•  Microbial  testing  -  Slaughter  plants  would  begin 
microbial  testing  90  days  after  and  tracking  of  test 
results  6  months  after  the  final  rule  is  published.  Two 
years  after  publication  of  the  final  rule,  plants  would 
have  to  meet  USDA-set  interim  targets  for  pathogen 
reduction. 


•  Plants  not  meeting  these  targets  would  be  subject 
to  corrective  action  under  FSIS  supervision.  This 
would  include  submitting  written  reports  on  why  they 
are  not  meeting  the  target  levels  and  how  they  plan 
to  correct  that.  Increased  microbial  testing  could  be 
required  to  verify  effectiveness  of  corrective 
measures. 

Proposals  to  be  phased-in  within  1  to  3  years 

•  Mandatory  HACCP  plans  -  Under  the  proposal,  all 
federally  inspected  meat  and  poultry  slaughter  and 
processing  plants  would  be  required  to  develop  and 
implement  a  plant-specific  HACCP  plan  within 
specified  timeframes.  Foreign  plants  exporting 
product  to  the  United  States  and  state  inspected 
plants  would  also  be  required  to  implement 
equivalent  HACCP  plans. 

•  If  a  plant's  HACCP  plan  is  found  invalid  or 
unacceptable,  this  would  be  considered  evidence 
that  product  produced  may  be  unsafe  and 
appropriate  regulatory  actions  would  be  taken  to 
protect  public  health. 


For  technical  information,  call 
Bill  Smith  (202)  720-3697 


January  J  995 


U.S.  Dcparlmcnt  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  &  Inspection  Service 


International 
Impact 


To  ensure  meat  and  poultry  products  imported  into  the 
United  States  are  safe,  wholesome  and  accurately 
labeled,  the  same  stringent  requirements  FSIS  places 
on  the  U.S.  domestic  industry  are  placed  on  foreign 
countries  exporting  to  this  country. 

Under  the  proposal,  exporting  countries  would  be 
required  to  adopt  the  new  pathogen  reduction  and 
Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points  (HACCP) 


measures  in  order  to  continue  exporting  their  products 
to  the  United  States.  FSIS  will  actively  seek  the  ideas 
of  consumers,  employees,  scientists  and  industry  on 
its  proposal. 


•  Through  a  comprehensive  import  inspection  system, 
FSIS  determines  the  equivalence  of  foreign 
inspection  systems  seeking  to  export  product  to  the 
United  States. 

•  FSIS  conducts  reviews  of  foreign  inspection  systems 
and  plants  and  reinspects  imported  product  at  ports 
of  entry. 

•  FSIS  determination  of  the  equivalence  of  a  foreign 
country's  inspection  system  centers  on  scientific  and 
risk  assessment  methodologies. 


•  The  equivalence  concept  has  been  clarified  by  the 
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  Agreement  on 
sanitary  and  phytosanitary  measures. 

•  The  Agreement  emphasizes  science  as  a 
determinant  of  equivalence.  All  WTO  member 
countries  have  an  obligation  to  apply  the  principle  of 
equivalence  to  export  products  to  other  member 
countries. 

•  HACCP  and  other  measures  in  the  proposed  rule 
are  examples  of  science  identified  in  the  WTO 
definition  of  equivalence. 

For  technical  information,  call 
Mark  Manis  (202)  720-3473 


January  1995 


U.S.  Dcparlincnl  of  AgricullLirc 
Food  Safely  &  Inspcclion  Service 


Economic 

Impact 

Analysis 


•  <»  IS  •  «  •  rA  •  ^  e  »  e  «  « 


«  a  «  9  9  IS 

The  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  lias 
determined  tliat  the  implementation  of  Hazard  Analysis 
and  Critical  Control  Points  (HACCP)  systems  in  meat 
and  poultry  plants  will  minimize  pathogen  contamination 
of  meat  and  poultry  products  and  lower  the  risk  of 
foodborne  illness.  FSIS  conducted  a  regulatory  impact 
assessment  on  implementation  of  the  proposed 
pathogen  reduction  and  HACCP  systems.  The 
regulatory  impact  assessment  concluded  that  the 


•  Over  a  three  year  period,  the  estimated  cost  to  the 
meat  and  poultry  industry  for  developing, 
implementing  and  operating  the  proposed  pathogen 
reduction  and  HACCP  systems  is  estimated  at 
$733.5  million,  averaging  about  $244.5  million  per 
year,  or  slightly  more  than  2/1 0  of  a  cent  per  pound 
of  meat  and  poultry. 

•  The  estimate  includes  costs  for  near-term  proposed 
initiatives  as  well  as  the  proposed  long-term 
HACCP  intervention. 

•  The  recurring  cost  after  full  implementation  of  the 
pathogen  reduction  and  HACCP  systems  is 
estimated  at  nearly  $231  million  per  year. 

•  The  proposal  would  have  a  significant  impact  on 
small  plants,  which  are  identified  in  the  cost  analysis 
as  plants  having  less  than  $2.5  million  in  annual 
sales. 

•  There  are  about  6,200  federal  slaughter, 
processing,  and  combination  slaughter  and 
processing  plants,  of  which  more  than  2,200  or  36 
percent  are  considered  small  federal  plants. 

•  State-inspected  plants  also  would  be  affected  by 
the  pathogen  reduction  and  HACCP  systems. 
There  are  nearly  2,900  state-inspected  plants,  and 
they  are  all  assumed  to  be  small  plants.  Of  the 
more  than  9,000  federal  and  state  plants,  about 
5,100  or  56.5  percent  are  considered  small  plants. 


HACCP  proposal  would  yield  an  annual  cost  saving 
for  public  health  benefits  of  about  $990  million  to  $3.7 
billion  because  of  reduced  foodborne  illness  costs  such 
as  medical  care  and  lost  worktime. 

FSIS  is  publishing  the  Preliminary  Regulatory  Impact 
Assessment  along  with  the  proposal  and  is  actively 
seeking  comment  on  the  assessment  and  proposal. 


•  The  estimated  costs  over  three  years  for  small 
plants  to  implement  the  proposed  HACCP  system 
is  $1 57.6  million.  The  estimated  cost  to  small  plants 
for  implementing  near-term  initiatives  is  about  $1 73 
million.  The  near-term  initiatives  would  be  put  into 
place  90  days  after  publication  of  the  final 
regulation. 

•  Plants  that  now  have  good  processing  controls  are 
expected  to  have  relatively  few  implementation 
costs  to  comply  with  the  proposal.  Plants  with  little 
or  no  process  controls  would  need  to  invest  more 
to  comply. 

•  FSIS  would  allow  small  plants  additional  time  to 
meet  proposed  HACCP  requirements.  They  would 
have  three  years  from  the  effective  date  of  the 
regulation  to  implement  HACCP  plans. 


For  technical  information,  call 
Ed  McEvoy  (202)  205-0210 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  &  Inspection  Service 


I 
i 

! 

I 


i 


Outreach 
Activities 


«  «  e  •  •  •  M 


The  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  has  developed 
a  multi-faceted  outreach  strategy  to  inform,  educate, 
stimulate  scientific  discussion,  and  facilitate  individual 
and  constituent  group  comments  about  the  Pathogen 
Reduction  and  Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control 
Point  proposal  during  the  proposal's  120-day  comment 
period.  Outreach  activities  include  various  components 
designed  to  ensure  that  consumers,  industry, 
constituent  groups,  and  all  other  interested  parties  have 
the  opportunity  to  learn  about  the  specifics  of  the 
proposal  and  understand  how  it  is  intended  to  provide 
for  a  safer  meat  and  poultry  supply.  Constituent  groups, 
the  public  and  other  interested  parties  also  will  be  able 
to  discuss  and  comment  on  issues  addressed  in  or 
related  to  the  proposal. 


Major  components  of  the  outreach  effort  include  si> 
information  briefings  on  the  proposal  to  be  held  in  major 
cities  throughout  the  country;  three  scientific  and 
technical  conferences  to  gain  input  from  leading 
scientific  experts  and  others  on  specific  issues  in  or 
related  to  the  regulatory  proposal;  a  formal  hearing  to 
facilitate  public  and  constituent  group  comments  on  the 
proposal;  and  employee  outreach  efforts. 


Information  Briefings 

•  Information  briefings  with  questions  and  answers 
sessions  will  be  held  30  to  60  days  into  the  comment 
period  in: 

-  Chicago 

-  Dallas 

-  San  Francisco 

-  Atlanta 

-  New  York 

-  Washington,  D.C. 

Scientific  and  Technical  Conferences 

•  The  following  scientific  and  technical  conferences 
will  take  place  60  to  90  days  into  the  comment  period: 

-  New  Technology  to  Improve 

Food  Safety —  scheduled  to  be  held  in 
Chicago. 

-  The  Role  of  Microbiological  Testing  in 
Ensuring  Food  Safety — to  take  place  in 
Philadelphia. 


Public  Hearing 

•    The  public  hearing  will  be  held  in  Washington,  D.C, 
about  90  days  into  the  comment  period. 

For  more  information,  call: 
Charles  Danner  (202)  501-7138 
Andrew  Moss  (202)  720-7943 


-  Protecting  Public  Health  Through  Food 
Safety  Performance  Standards  —  to  be 
held  in  Washington,  D.C. 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  &  Inspeetion  Service 


! 


f.       FSIS  Pathogen 

Reduction/HACCP 
Proposal 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 


Q1.  Why  is  FSIS  making  this  proposal? 

A1.  Current  FSIS  regulatory  requirements  and 
Inspection  procedures  contribute  to  the  FSIS  mission 
of  ensuring  meat  and  poultry  products  are  safe, 
wholesome  and  accurately  labeled.  However,  the 
current  program  does  not  directly  target  pathogenic 
microorganisms,  which  represent  the  largest  public 
health  threat  to  consumers  from  meat  and  poultry.  It 
also  does  not  make  meat  and  poultry  establishments 
legally  responsible  for  taking  systematic,  preventive 
measures  to  reduce  or  eliminate  the  presence  of 
pathogenic  microorganisms  in  meat  and  poultry 
products. 

To  protect  the  public  health  and  reduce  the  risk  of 
foodborne  illness,  FSIS  is  proposing  to  fill  these  gaps  in 
its  current  system  by  requiring  new  measures  that  would 
target  and  reduce  the  presence  of  pathogenic 
microorganisms  in  meat  and  poultry  products.  FSIS  is 
also  beginning  a  fundamental  shift  in  the  paradigm 
governing  its  inspection  program.  FSIS  will  begin  to 
build  the  principle  of  prevention  into  its  inspection 
program  by  proposing  that  all  meat  and  poultry 
establishments  be  required  to  adopt  the  Hazard  Analysis 
and  Critical  Control  Point  (HACCP)  approach  to 
producing  safe  meat  and  poultry  products. 


Q2.  What  are  the  key  elements  of  this 
proposal? 

A2.  Within  90  days  of  publication  of  a  final  rule,  the 
proposal  would  require  all  establishments  to  develop 
and  keep  written  records  of  sanitation  standard  operating 
procedures.  Slaughter  plants  would  be  required  to  use 
at  least  one  antimicrobial  treatment  prior  to  chilling  or 
cooling.  It  would  also  require  that  meat  and  poultry 
products  reach  optimal  temperatures  within  specified 
time  periods  to  ensure  maximum  pathogen  destruction. 
Within  a  two-year  timeframe,  the  proposal  also  calls  for 


reducing  Salmonella  in  all  meat  and  poultry  products 
by  establishing  interim  targets  and  daily  microbial  testing 
to  ensure  those  targets  are  being  met. 

FSIS  is  also  proposing  that  all  meat  and  poultry 
establishments  develop  and  implement  a  HACCP 
(Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Points)  system. 
FSIS  anticipates  that  implementation  of  HACCP  systems 
would  take  place  over  a  one  to  three-year  time  period. 


Q3.  How  will  sanitation  procedures  change 
under  this  proposal? 

A3.  The  sanitation  SOP  is  a  companion  to  the 
proposed  HACCP  requirement  and  part  of  its  foundation. 
Like  HACCP,  the  sanitation  SOP  reflects  a  commitment 
by  establishments  to  consistently  control  operations  in 
the  interests  of  public  health.  The  SOP  demonstrates 
that  establishment  owners  know  their  operations  and 
how  to  keep  them  clean.  Because  products  and 
processes  are  different  for  each  establishment,  each 
SOP,  like  each  HACCP  plan,  may  be  unique. 

The  proposal  does  not  affect  existing  basic  sanitation 
requirements  found  in  the  meat  and  poultry  regulations 
or  the  guidance  on  how  to  comply  with  these 
requirements  provided  in  the  Sanitation  Handbook  and 
other  FSIS  publications.  Establishment  owners  would, 
however,  be  required  to  describe  in  writing  how  they 
are  meeting  those  existing  sanitation  requirements  in 
their  operations. 


Q4.  What  antimicrobial  treatments  would  be 
permitted  under  this  proposal? 

A4.  Antimicrobial  treatments  are  interventions  that 
decrease  microorganisms  present  on  the  surfaces  of 
meat  and  poultry  carcasses.  Those  that  have  been 
approved  by  FSIS  include  hot  water  or  steam;  lactic, 


January  1995 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  &  inspection  Service 


acetic  and  citric  acid  solution  sprays;  trisodium 
phosphate  (TSP);  and  chlorinated  water.  FSIS  is 
seeking  comments  on  each  of  these  treatments,  as  well 
as  any  other  antimicrobial  treatment  that  can  be  proven 
safe  and  effective. 

Q5.  What  time  and  temperature  require- 
ments is  FSIS  proposing  to  establish? 

A5.  FSIS  has  concluded  that  most  raw  meat  and 
poultry  products  must  be  rapidly  chilled  and  maintained 
cold  at  40  degrees  F  or  below  to  minimize  the  risk  to 
public  health  from  pathogens  on  those  products.  FSIS 
is  proposing  that  the  surface  of  meat  carcasses  be 
cooled  to  50  degrees  F  or  below  within  5  hours  and  to 
40  degrees  F  or  below  within  24  hours  from  the  time 
that  carcasses  exit  the  slaughter  floor.  Poultry 
regulations  would  also  be  amended  to  be  consistent. 
Product  that  is  not  chilled  quickly  enough  or  that  has 
been  held  at  temperatures  exceeding  40  degrees  F, 
would  be  required  to  receive  further  processing  to  kill 
pathogens  or  be  condemned. 

Q6.  What  interim  targets  are  proposed  for 
Salmonella  reduction? 

A6.  FSIS  is  proposing  that,  within  two  years  or  some 
other  period  established  by  FSIS,  all  establishments 
bring  their  incidence  of  Salmonella  contamination  below 
the  current  national  baseline  incidence  of  Salmonella, 
perhaps  by  some  specified  percentage  to  be  determined 
during  the  rulemaking  process.  This  can  be  done  by 
industry  process  controls  and  production  practices  that 
have  been  demonstrated  in  actual  practice  as  available 
and  effective  for  reducing  the  incidence  of 
microbiological  contamination. 

Each  establishment  would  collect  a  minimum  of  one 
sample  for  testing  each  day  from  each  slaughter  class 
and/or  class  of  raw  ground  product.  The  establishment 
would  record  the  results,  which  would  then  be  used  to 
assess  the  effectiveness  of  a  system  over  time. 

Q7.  Why  was  Salmonella  chosen  as  the 
target  organism? 

A7.  Salmonella  was  selected  for  several  reasons:  1 ) 
Salmonella  is  the  leading  cause  of  bacterial  foodborne 
illness  in  this  country,  and  causes  the  greatest  economic 

2 


burden;  2)  FSIS  baseline  data  suggest  that  Salmonella 
is  present  in  a  variety  of  animals  and  birds  in  sufficient 
numbers  to  detect  and  monitor  frequency  changes;  3) 
current  methodologies  are  available  to  recover 
Salmonella  from  a  variety  of  products;  and  4)  intervention 
strategies  aimed  at  reducing  Salmonella  may  also  have 
an  effect  against  other  human  enteric  foodborne 
pathogens. 

Q8.  When  would  HACCP  be  implemented? 

Q8.  FSIS  envisions  a  phase-in  of  HACCP  from  1  to  3 
years,  based  on  industry  production  process  categories. 
Small  establishments  —  regardless  of  the  processes 
performed  and  products  produced  —  would  be  given 
the  full  three  years  for  implementation.  The  FSIS 
proposal  identifies  small  plants  as  those  plants  having 
less  than  $2.5  million  in  annual  sales.  FSIS  is  specifically 
seeking  comment  on  how  to  define  "small" 
establishments. 


Q9.  Does  this  proposal  include  any  on-farm 
activities? 

A9.  Not  at  this  time.  FSIS  does  not  anticipate  an  on- 
farm  inspection  role  for  Federal  food  safety  inspectors. 
FSIS  will  work  with  producers  and  others  to  develop 
and  foster  implementation  of  food  safety  measures  that 
can  be  taken  on  the  farm  and  prior  to  the  animals 
entering  the  slaughter  facility  to  reduce  the  risk  of  harmful 
contamination  of  meat  and  poultry  products.  This  is 
another  specific  issue  area  on  which  FSIS  is  seeking 
comment. 


Q10.  How  will  FSIS  address  food  safety 
problems  that  occur  after  a  meat  or 
poultry  product  leaves  a  federally 
inspected  establishment? 

A10.  FSIS  and  FDA  share  authority  and  responsibility 
for  overseeing  the  safety  of  meat  and  poultry  products 
after  they  leave  FSIS-inspected  facilities.  FSIS  and  FDA 
will  review  their  respective  programs  to  determine  how 
they  can  —  considering  all  of  the  resources  being 
devoted  to  this  sector  —  reconfigure  the  program  or 
initiate  activities  to  increase  program  effectiveness.  Two 
specific  areas  of  review  will  be  transportation  of  product 
in  commerce  and  handling  and  preparation  of  food 
products  by  retail  stores,  restaurants,  and  institutions. 


In  the  area  of  transportation,  FSIS  is  currently  working 
with  FDA  on  the  development  of  guidelines  for 
conveyances  used  to  transport  food  products.  In  the 
area  of  retail  distribution,  FSIS  has  worked  closely  with 
FDA  in  the  recent  updating  of  the  Food  Code,  a  set  of 
model  ordinances  that  serve  as  a  guide  for  State  and 
local  authorities  who  have  primary  responsibility  for  the 
regulation  of  retail  stores  and  restaurants.  FSIS  and 
FDA  will  continue  to  work  closely  together  to  encourage 
State  adoption  of  the  Food  Code. 

Q11.  How  would  imported  products  be  treated 
as  a  result  of  these  proposed 
regulations? 

A11.  Foreign  establishments  exporting  to  the  United 
States  will  be  required  to  adopt  the  pathogen  reduction 
measures  and  HACCP  requirements  FSIS  imposes  on 
domestic  establishments  pursuant  to  this  rulemaking. 
As  HACCP  develops,  FSIS  will  be  considering  what 
effect  adoption  of  HACCP  should  have  on  the  nature 
and  frequency  of  import  inspection. 

Q12.  How  would  the  role  of  inspectors  change 
as  a  result  of  this  proposal? 

A12.  Inspection  of  products  and  practices  will  remain 
central  to  the  FSIS  inspection  program.  HACCP 
verification  would  necessarily  expand  the  roles  of  in- 
plant  inspectors,  and  HACCP  would  enhance  the 
contribution  they  can  make  to  ensuring  the  safety  of 
food.  FSIS  has  already  begun  working  with  its 
inspectors'  union  and  other  employee  organizations  to 
formulate  a  plan  for  the  optimal  use  of  inspectors  for 
each  element  of  this  proposal. 


Industry  costs  to  develop,  implement,  and  operate 
HACCP  processing  control  systems  are  estimated  at 
$733.5  million  over  a  three  year  period.  However, 
establishments  that  now  have  good  processing  controls 
would  have  relatively  few  implementation  costs,  while 
establishments  that  have  little  or  no  process  control 
would  need  to  spend  more  for  compliance.  Further, 
costs  under  the  proposed  regulation  would  manifest 
themselves  as  investments  in  a  more  viable  meat  and 
poultry  industry,  in  contrast  to  the  consumption 
expenditures  such  as  medical  care,  lost  worktime,  and 
the  other  costs  associated  with  foodborne  illness. 


Q14.  Will  this  proposal  make  meat  and  poultry 
safer  for  consumers? 

A14.  This  proposal  would  build  the  public  health 
principle  of  prevention  into  the  current  meat  and  poultry 
inspection  system  and  directly  target  and  reduce 
contamination  with  dangerous  bacteria.  By  reducing 
the  frequency  of  contamination  of  meat  and  poultry  with 
pathogenic  microorganisms,  these  proposed 
requirements  would  in  turn  reduce  the  risk  of  foodborne 
illness  from  consumption  of  meat  and  poultry  products. 

There  is  no  single  technological  or  procedural  solution 
to  the  problem  of  foodborne  illness,  and  the  Agency's 
food  safety  goal  of  reducing  risk  to  the  maximum  extent 
possible  will  not  be  achieved  overnight.  Food  safety 
requires  continuous  efforts  to  improve  how  hazards  are 
identified  and  prevented.  This  proposal  reflects  the 
Agency's  belief  that  steps  that  can  be  taken  today  to 
reduce  the  risk  of  foodborne  illness  should  be  taken 
today. 


Q13.  What  are  the  costs  and  benefits  of  this 
proposal? 

A13.  According  to  its  Preliminary  Regulatory  Impact 
Assessment,  FSIS  has  concluded  that  mandating 
HACCP  systems  would  result  in  net  benefits  that  far 
exceed  industry  implementation  and  operation  costs. 
Mandatory  HACCP  implementation  is  projected  to 
produce  a  direct  reduction  in  foodborne  illness  with 
public  health  benefits  estimated  at  $990  million  to  3.7 
billion  annually. 


3 


Modernizing  l^eat  Inspection 


by  Mary  Ann  Parmley, 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 


Early  in  this  century  when  the  first 
meat  insp>ection  acts  were  passed, 
the  science  of  public  health  was  in 
its  infancy.  Accordingly,  meat 
inspectors  worked  to  keep  diseased 
animal  products  from  reaching  people's 
tables.  They  accomplished  that  by  visually 
inspecting  carcasses  in  meat  plants. 

Today,  at  the  end  of  the  century, 
science  has  advanced  miraculously,  but 
foodbome  illness  still  poses  a  risk  to  the 
American  public.  Statistics  show  that 
millions  of  Americans  contract  foodbome 
illness  each  year. 

In  far  too  many  ways,  though,  USDA 
inspectors  continue  to  inspect  meat  and 
poultry  not  much  differently  than  their 
counterparts  did  a  himdred  years  ago— 
that  is,  by  sight,  smell  and  touch. 

But  you  can't  "see"  microscopic-sized 
bacteria  that  cause  food  poisoning.  USDA 
is  proposing  a  food  safety  initiative  to 
ensure  that  harmful  bacteria  levels  in 
products  are  substantially  reduced  as 
soon  as  possible. 

What  are  these  proposed 
changes  all  about? 

While  raw  animal  products  will  alwajrs 
contain  a  number  of  bacteria  and  other 
microbes  (most  harmless),  this  proposed 
inspection  plan  dearly  states  that  disease- 
causing  bacteria  must  be  reduced  to  the 
lowest  levels  possible. 

This  cannot  be  accomplished  all  at 
once,  but  over  the  next  3  years,  USDA 
believes  bacterial  levels  in  plants  can  be 
gradually  reduced  so  as  to  greatly 
minimize  the  threat  of  foodbome  illness. 

The  proposal  holds  meat  and  poultry 
producers  legally  responsible  for  making 
these  changes. 

How  the  Proposal  will  work 

USDA's  ii«pectibn  proposal  consists  of 
three  parts:  1)  Immediate  new  in-plant 
safeguards;  2)  Immediate  daily  testing  to 
minimize  bacteria  in  meat  and  poultry 
foods;  and  3)  A  requirement  that  every 
plant  set  up  a  detailed  HACCP  plan. 
HACCP  stands  for  Hazard  Anal)^is 
Critical  Control  Point  risk  analysis. 

1.  In-plant  safeguards 
Soon  after  the  new  proposal  becomes 
effective,  every  meat  and  poultry  plant 
would  operate  under  a  sanitation  plan 


<^M^  MMt  Product 


Grooaiy 
sun 


USDA 's  new  proposal  to  protect  you 
and  your  family  from  farm  to  table 

spedaUy  designed  to  protect  its  products 
from  bacteria. 

Plants  would  also  be  required  to  use 
the  most  effective  available  anti-bacterial 
rinses  to  dean  disease  agents  off  raw 
meat  surfaces.  And  they  would  be  hdd 
accountable  for  the  proper  cooling  of  raw 
meat  and  poultry  products. 

2.  Bacterial  Testing 
Let's  say  a  hog  plant  produces  pork 
chops.  Once  a  day,  under  this  proposal, 
the  plant  must  test  a  hog  carcass  to  see  if 
any  of  certain  harmful  bacteria  are 
present.  This  daily  testing  will  establish  a 
performance  profile  for  each  plant  that 
shows  their  success  at  reaching  national 
bacteria  reduction  targets. 

Over  the  first  2  years,  USDA  will  work 
dosely  with  plants  to  refine  testing, 
process  control  and  reporting  procedures 
necessary  to  lower  bacteria  levels.  After 
that,  all  plants  producing  raw  product 
would  be  required  to  meet  USDA-set 
national  targets  for  bacterial  reduction. 


inspection  that  Protects 

To  move  meat  and  poultry  inspection 
into  the  21st  century,  we  must  directiy 
target  the  bacteria  that  make  people 
sick  and  use  the  tools  of  sdence  to 
systematically  prevent  food  safety 
problems. 

Michael  R.  Taylor,  USDA, 

Acting  Under  Secretary  for  Food  Safety 


3.  HACCP  plans 

The  first  two  parts  of  the  proposal — ^new 
sanitary  requirements  eind  otiier  safe- 
guards plus  bacteria  testing — ^would  go 
into  effect  right  away.  But  they  just  set  the 
stage  for  USDA's  major  shift,  and  that  is 
to  require  that  within  3  years  every  plant 
operate  imder  a  detailed,  carefully 
researched  HACCP  or  risk  prevention 
plan  covering  every  step  in  production. 

HACCP  analysis  requires  plant  manag- 
ers to  identify  every  p>oint  in  production 
where  something  coiild  go  wrong  to 
jeopeirdize  product  safety.  The  HACCP 
plan  cilso  spells-out  precise  corrective 
actions  to  be  taken. 

Furthermore,  HACCP-type  safeguards 
would  be  extended  beyond  the  meat  or 
poultry  plant  back  to  ti\e  farm  and 
forward  through  transportation  and  safe 
handling  at  the  store  or  other  retail  outlet. 
In  this  ^ort,  USDA  will  work  with  meat 
and  poultry  producers,  transporters, 
retail  sales  people  and  offidaJs  with  local 
jurisdiction. 

The  Consumer  Role 

Of  course  the  safe  handling  of  raw  meat 
and  poultry  products  cannot  end  at  the 
plant  or  grocery  store  door.  No  matter 
how  safe  government  and  industry  try  to 
make  meat  food  products,  the  last,  best 
line  of  defense  against  foodbome  illness 
is  still  safe  handling  at  home. 

Consiuners  should  read  and  routinely 
follow  the  guidelines  on  the  new  safe 
handling  labels  on  meat  and  poultry. 

Safe  Handling  off  Meat  & 
Poultry  means 

1.  Keep  it  refrigerated  or  frozen.  Thaw  in 
refrigerator  or  microwave. 

2.  Keep  raw  meat  cind  poultry  separate 
from  other  foods.  Wash  work  surfaces 
(induding  cutting  boards),  utensils 
cmd  hands  after  touching  raw  meat  or 
fKJultry. 

3.  Cook  thoroughly. 

4.  Keep  hot  foods  hot.  Refrigerate  left- 
overs immediately  or  discard.  * 


For  more  information  on  USDA's  new  Proposed 
Regulation  to  Improve  Meat  and  Poultry  Inspection  or 
the  everyday  safe  handling  of  meat  and  poultry 
products,  call  the  Meat  and  Poultry  Hotline.  800-535- 
4555.  Washington.  D.C.  residents  call  202-720-4333. 


USDA  is  strengthening 
inspection  for  safer 
meat  &  poultry  products 

To  move  ahead  with  the  most  comprehensive 
improvements  in  meat  and  poultry  inspection  in  a 
hundred  years,  USDA's  new  food  safety  initiative  calls  for. 


SOURCE:  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 


i 


1022397530 


NATIONAL  AGRICULTURAL  LIBRAR 


1022397530 


