Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 





aHD1751 
-R73 


r11U0 UPDATES: Early-Season Water Supplies 





Data updates for employees and colleagues of the Resources and Technology Division 


Resources and Technology Division 
Economic Research Service 
U.S. Department of Agriculture 


= = June 1992 


2 lt 
a ~ 


Crop Moisture Sources Monitored To Identify Production Problemis- 


Crop production depends on adequate soil moisture. To 
help identify production problems and potential areas of 
policy action, RTD monitors indicators of crop water 
supplies from various sources. This RTD Update 
provides information on early-season moisture 
conditions for the 1992 crop season. 


The Palmer Drought Index (PDI) identifies areas affected 
by long-term abnormal dryness or wetness, rather than 
current moisture available for crop production. The PDI 
maps in figure 1 clearly show the prolonged drought in 
the West, heavy 1992 rainfall in parts of the South, and 
the swing from moist to drought in portions of the 
eastern Corn Belt. Drought areas will require timely 
rains or irrigation water applications for normal crop 
production. 


Surface water sources (current streamflow and past 
streamflow stored in reservoirs) serve about half of the 


Monthly Data Releases Planned 


RTD UPDATES, published by the Resources and 
Technology Division, is a new series of monthly 
data highlights relating to agricultural resources, 
the environment, food safety, global change, and 
technology. Surveys of farm operators and others 
knowledgeable about changing agricultural 
resource conditions provide vital information to the 
RTD research program and are the source of 
these data highlights. RTD UPDATES gives 
readers recent data acquisitions, with only minimal 
interpretation or analysis. This quick release of 
data should enhance your analytical efforts and 
decisions. Please contact the individual listed in 
the text of RTD UPDATES on the availability and 
timing of additional information. Different resource 
and technology issues are featured each month, 
depending on availability of data. 





x oat 
irrigated acres in the West. Figure 2 presentsithe 1992 
summer streamflow forecast based on attualtsnowpack 
and normal summer precipitation’ in;the 14 Western 
States. Projected streamflow is much below normal for 
almost all of the West, with expected’ normal flows 
limited to portions of Colorado and’ New Mexico. 


May 1 reservoir storage represents spring snowpack 
runoff, winter rains, and carryover from previous years. 
Figure 3 shows that 7 of 11 States’ irrigation reservoir 
storage levels are below normal again this year. States 
with the most critical storage conditions are Nevada 
(14% of normal), Oregon (54%), California (72%),. and 
Utah (72%). 


Crop production will suffer in areas with long-term 
drought conditions, below normal reservoir storage, and 
a much below normal streamflow forecast. These 
conditions currently exist, for example, in western 
Nevada, northern California, and southeastern Oregon. 


A more current look at topsoil moisture conditions is 
provided by the crop moisture map in figure 4. This 
map suggests that, as of June 6, the drought persists in 
the West while areas of the Southern Plains have had 
excessive rain. The Midwest and Eastern States begin 
the crop year with sufficient topsoil moisture. 


Updated estimates of short-term crop moisture 
conditions and the Palmer Drought Index are available 
in the Weekly Weather and Crop Bulletin published by 
the NOAA/USDA Joint Agricultural Weather Facility. 
Spring snowpack, runoff, and reservoir information is 
published by NOAA/USDA-Soil Conservation Service in 
Water Supply Outlook reports. Additional information 
on irrigation water supplies and irrigated acres is 
available in ERS’s Agricultural Resources: Cropland, 
Water, and Conservation Situation and Outlook report 
published annually in the fall. 


Further information: Noel Gollehon or Marcel Aillery, 
Water Branch, RTD (202)219-0410. 


Figure 1. Drought-Affected Areas Based on Palmer Drought Index, 1991 and 1992 





Mi Extreme drought 
Severe drought 

== Moderate drought 

[_] Near normal conditions 
VA Moist conditions 


‘ae > CGP op 


e, | TE gt MM BAS Ki 










aS = 
ie 






Source: NOAA/USDA Joint Agricultural Weather Facility 


Figure 2. Western Streamflow Forecast for Summer 1992, as of May 1 


MMM Much below average (70% or less) 
Below average (70%-90%) 

== Near average (90%-110%) 

Above average (110% or more) 
[_] Not forecast 





Source: NOAA/USDA Water Supply Outlook. 


Figure 3. Reservoir Storage in 11 Western States, May 1, 1992 
Historic 


May 1 average 
(1,000 acre-feet) 


Arizona 2,076 











California 
1990 
Colorado 
Idaho 
Montana 
Nevada 


New Mexico 2,553 & 





Oregon 2,951 & 
Washington 7996 





Wyoming 3,065 









0 50 100 150 200 
Percent of normal 
Source: USDA/SCS Central Forecast System and California Department of Water Resources. 


Figure 4. Short-term Topsoil Moisture for Crop Production, June 6, 1992 






H® Severely dry [__] Near-normal : 
Very dry KY wet “ 
= Dry EX) Very wet 


Source: NOAA/USDA Joint Agricultural Weather Facility 





RTD UPDATES 

Economic Research Service 

U.S. Department of Agriculture 

1301 New York Avenue, N.W., Room 524 
Washington, DC 20005-4788 


