Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


5000.1 

Revision  1 5/21/03 


Verifying  an  Estabiishment’s  Food  Safety  System 


I.  PURPOSE 

This  directive  issues  FSIS  Handbook  5000.1,  Verifying  an  Establishment’s 
Food  Safety  System.  This  handbook  provides  comprehensive  direction  to  FSIS 
field  personnel  on  how  they  are  to  protect  the  public  health  by  properly  verifying 
an  establishment’s  compliance  with  the  pathogen  reduction,  sanitation,  and 
HACCP  regulations. 

II.  CANCELLATIONS 


FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Enforcement  of  Regulatory  Requirements  In 
Establishments  Subject  to  the  HACCP  System  Regulations 

FSIS  Directive  11,000.1,  Sanitation  Performance  Standards 

FSIS  Notice  28-02,  Actions  to  be  Taken  in  Establishments  Subject  to  Salmonella 
Testing 

III.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE 

This  directive  has  been  rewritten  in  its  entirety  as  a handbook  that  also 
combines  instructions  from  FSIS  Directive  11,000.1  and  FSIS  Notice  28-02.  The 
new  handbook  provides  one  comprehensive  source  for  Consumer  Safety 
Inspectors  (CSIs)  and  Consumer  Safety  Officers  (CSOs)  to  use  when  verifying  or 
assessing  an  establishment’s  food  safety  system. 

IV.  REFERENCES 

9 CFR  parts  416,  417,  and  500 
9 CFR  310.25  and  381.94 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors; 

Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  TSC,  Import  Offices 


OPI:  OPPD 


V.  ATTACHMENTS  AND  FORMS 

Attachment  1—  Handbook  5000.1,  Verifying  an  Establishment’s  Food  Safety 
System 

FSIS  Forms  5000-1  through  5000-4  (Available  on  FAIM) 

VI.  BACKGROUND 

The  attachment,  Handbook  5000.1,  is  designed  to  assist  CSIs  and  CSOs  in 
performing,  and  in  better  understanding,  their  job  responsibilities.  It  includes,  at 
the  beginning,  tables  that  CSIs  can  use  to  find  in  the  Handbook  the  verification 
procedures,  documentation  instructions,  and  enforcement  actions  for  specific 
activities  codes.  To  facilitate  use  of  this  Handbook,  the  following  walk-through  is 
provided. 

A.  How  do  CSIs  and  CSOs  use  the  Handbook  and  tables  for  the 
Sanitation  Performance  Standards  (SPS)  reguiations? 

CSIs  perform  the  06D01  procedure  when  verifying  an  establishment’s 
compliance  with  the  SPS  regulations.  For  a brief  description  of  how  to  perform 
the  06D01  procedure,  CSIs  should  refer  to  pages  1-3  and  1-4  of  Handbook 
5000.1 . When  a CSI  is  to  perform  an  06D01  procedure,  the  CSI  may  wish  to 
review  pages  1-3  through  1-21,  of  the  Handbook,  to  ensure  that  he  or  she  is 
familiar  with  ail  of  the  SPS  regulatory  requirements.  Once  the  CSI  is  familiar  with 
all  the  SPS  regulatory  requirements,  he  or  she  will  determine  which  requirements 
to  verify  while  performing  the  06D01  procedure.  The  CSI  can  use  any  method 
for  determining  which  regulatory  requirements  he  or  she  plans  to  verify.  The  CSI 
should  verify  all  of  the  SPS  regulatory  requirements  on  an  on-going  basis.  The 
CSI  should  coordinate  the  frequency  with  the  Front-line  Supervisor.  The  Front- 
line Supervisor  will  consider  such  things  as  compliance  history  of  the 
establishment,  number  of  piants  on  the  assignment,  number  of  inspectors  on  the 
assignment,  etc. 

When  the  CSI  understands  the  SPS  regulatory  requirements  and  determines 
which  ones  he  or  she  will  verify,  he  or  she  should  refer  to  Table  1 . This  table 
references  the  pages  in  the  Handbook  where  the  CSI  can  find  questions  to  ask 
when  in  verifying  that  the  establishment  is  meeting  each  regulatory  requirement. 
These  questions  will  assist  the  CSI  in  understanding  the  thought  process  he  or 
she  should  follow  in  performing  the  inspection  methodology  and  making 
regulatory  decisions. 


Page  2 


( 


FSIS  Directive  5000.1  Rev.  1 


If  the  CSI  determines  that  there  is  noncompliance  with  any  of  the 
requirements,  he  or  she  should  refer  to  pages  IV-1  through  IV-6  for  instructions 
on  documenting  the  noncompliance.  If  the  noncompliance  is  part  of  a trend,  the 
CSI  should  refer  to  pages  IV-1 3 through  IV-1 5 for  instructions  on  how  and  when 
to  link  non-compliances.  If  the  CSI  decides,  based  on  observations  and  review 
of  the  situation,  that  issuance  of  a Notice  of  Intended  Enforcement  (NOIE)  is 
necessary,  he  or  she  should  refer  to  page  IV-1 4 for  instructions. 

Page  1-30  of  Handbook  5000.1 , explains  the  importance  of  SPS  regulatory 
compliance  and  the  impact  that  noncompliance  can  have  on  other  food  safety 
systems.  This  material  Is  provided  particularly  for  CSOs,  although  it  may  be  of 
interest  to  all  FSIS  inspection  program  personnel. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  and  CSOs  use  the  Handbook  and  tables  for  the 
Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedure  (SOPs)  regulations? 

When  a CSI  is  to  perform  one  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs  procedures  (01A01, 
01B01, 01B02,  01C01,  and  01C02),  the  CSI  should  review  pages  1-21  through  I- 
24,  to  ensure  that  he  or  she  understands  the  correct  methodology  to  use.  When 
performing  the  Sanitation  SOP  procedures,  the  CSI  should  verify  as  many  of  the 
Sanitation  SOP  regulatory  requirements  as  possible.  The  CSI  should  refer  to 
Table  2 for  the  specific  pages  of  the  Handbook  that  describe  the  thought  process 
that  he  or  she  should  use  to  verify  an  establishment’s  compliance  with  the 
Sanitation  SOPs  regulatory  requirements. 

If  the  CSI  determines  that  there  is  noncompliance  with  any  of  the 
requirements,  he  or  she  should  refer  to  pages  IV-1  through  IV-8  for  instructions 
on  documenting  the  Sanitation  SOP  noncompliance.  If  the  noncompliance  is  part 
of  a trend,  refer  to  pages  IV-1 3 through  IV-1 5 for  instructions  on  appropriately 
linking  the  noncompliances.  If  the  CSI  decides,  based  on  observations  and 
review  of  the  situation,  that  Issuance  of  an  NOIE  is  necessary,  he  or  she  refer  to 
page  IV-1 4.  Page  IV-20  describes  the  actions  that  should  be  taken  when  a CSI 
determines  that  the  establishment  shipped  adulterated  or  misbranded  product. 

Pages  1-30  and  1-31  of  Handbook  5000.1  provide  questions  that  a CSO  should 
ask  when  assessing  the  design  of  the  Sanitation  SOP.  Pages  IV-1 6 and  IV-1 7 
provide  instructions  to  the  CSOs  on  documenting  their  findings  during 
comprehensive  food  safety  assessments. 


Page  3 


C.  How  do  CSIs  and  CSOs  use  the  Handbook  and  tables  for  Hazard 
Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Point  (HACCP)  regulations? 

When  a CSI  is  to  perform  one  of  the  HACCP  procedures  (03A01,  03B01- 
03J01, 03B02-03J02),  the  CSI  should  review  pages  II-3  through  II-5  to  ensure 
that  he  or  she  understands  the  correct  inspection  methods  to  use  when 
performing  these  procedures.  The  CSI  should  refer  to  Table  3 for  the  specific 
pages  of  the  Handbook  that  describes  the  HACCP  regulatory  requirements. 
These  pages  describe  the  thought  process  that  the  CSI  should  use  when 
verifying  an  establishment’s  compliance  with  the  HACCP  regulatory 
requirements. 

If  the  CSI  determines  that  there  is  noncompliance  with  any  of  the  HACCP 
requirements,  he  or  she  should  refer  to  pages  IV-1  through  IV-13  for  instructions 
on  documenting  the  HACCP  noncompliance.  If  the  noncompliance  is  part  of  a 
trend,  refer  to  pages  IV-13  through  IV-1 5 for  Instructions  on  appropriately  linking 
the  noncompliances.  If  a CSI  determines,  based  on  observations  and  review  of 
the  situation,  that  issuance  of  an  NOIE  is  necessary,  he  or  she  should  refer  to 
page  IV-1 4 for  instructions  on  proceeding  with  enforcement  actions.  Page  IV-20 
describes  the  actions  that  should  be  taken  if  the  CSI  determines  that  the 
establishment  shipped  adulterated  or  misbranded  product. 

Pages  1 1-31  through  11-39  of  Handbook  5000.1  provide  questions  that  the  CSOs 
should  seek  answers  to  when  conducting  an  assessment  of  the  design  of  the 
HACCP  systems.  Pages  IV-1 6 and  IV-1 7 provide  instructions  to  the  CSOs  on 
documenting  their  findings  during  the  comprehensive  food  safety  assessment. 

D.  How  do  CSIs  and  CSOs  use  the  Handbook  and  tables  the  pathogen 
reduction  regulations? 

When  the  CSI  is  to  perform  the  05A02  procedure,  the  CSI  should  review  page 

I I I- 3  of  the  Handbook  to  understand  the  correct  inspection  methods  to  use.  The 
CSI  should  refer  to  Table  4 for  the  specific  pages  of  the  handbook  that  describes 
the  E.  coli  regulatory  requirements.  These  pages  describe  the  thought  process 
the  CSI  should  use  when  verifying  the  E.  coli  regulatory  requirements. 

If  the  CSI  determines  there  is  noncompliance  with  any  of  the  requirements, 
he/she  should  refer  to  pages  IV-1  through  IV-13  for  instructions  on  documenting 
the  E.  coli  noncompliance.  If  the  noncompliance  is  part  of  a trend,  refer  to  pages 

IV- 13  through  IV-1 5 for  instructions  on  appropriately  linking  the  noncompliances. 


Page  4 


( 


FSIS  Directive  5000.1  Rev.  1 


If  the  CSI  decides,  based  on  observations  and  review  of  the  situation,  that 
issuance  of  an  NOIE  is  necessary,  he  or  she  should  refer  to  page  IV-14  for 
instructions  on  proceeding  with  enforcement  actions. 

Pages  111-10  and  111-11  provide  instructions  to  the  CSO  on  the  approach  that 
should  be  used  when  conducting  an  assessment  of  the  E.  co// written 
procedures.  Pages  111-12  through  111-15  discuss  the  role  of  the  CSO  as  a 
member  of  an  IDV  team  for  Salmonella  set  failures.  Pages  IV-16  and  IV-17 
provide  Instructions  to  the  CSOs  on  documenting  the  results  of  the 
comprehensive  food  safety  assessments. 

Direct  questions  to  the  Technical  Service  Center. 


Deputy  Administrator 

Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development 
Attachments 


Page  5 


'■  ; • vl  i \ ' »•.* :•  (id'  f->a  v"rv.j.->  .o’  . 


' .!■  ■ Jc-f-i  enT  m Tf-,inj:>o‘j  r?( 

. •,«>  I 

" < . f 

‘ \ \ ■ ' 

■ i: 

..  ■ V-  -♦  ' ■*  *■  Iff  ,,  - 

, ■ ■*.'■•'  . •■  ' ■ ' ».i  ' ' j*r 

• * r • i . • diO  - 

' V ! ' ’ . 

•.  ' i\  • • >-  • 

' . i.  ‘ 


. f 


la>  K 


- r.  ’..  -V  . . #i»o  ''■• 

‘.  jtK  •■'  ■■  ’•  ' 

' . ^ r*#  • » ...  5-  ^ 

' *•  4 •■'  I'l-jJ* 

^ t 


c 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 

Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 

FSIS  Directive 
5000.1 

Revision  1 

Attachment  1 


VERIFYING  AN 
ESTABLISHMENT’S 
FOOD  SAFETY  SYSTEM 
HANDBOOK 


’^A 

3'  ri'-Fi 

V!3T:’V8  nmAZ  0 

>^0080 MAH 


. ^ '*  iriv^dqiiGA 

* * 

> VfiAil  J boo^ 
bnt 

' odoc 

»■  n •i,'>rvi 


INTRODUCTION 


LIST  OF  ACRONYMS 
TABLES 

CHAPTER  I SANITATION 
CHAPTER  II  HACCP 

CHAPTER  III  PATHOGEN  REDUCTION  ACTIVITIES 
CHAPTER  IV  ENFORCEMENT 


.if  ,:.  Vi;'.  ■■■.,  ffr,  •■  >>iit' 

. ,j%  '»  ^ii*.  ..'Vi  ’5il  r-.X7 


■r  ->  *. 

!?  ■ 


..  1? 


40(TCiUaC-;  l/tj 
•M'>  1CV0A  =iO  'ZU 

* eajw 


J.*a 


MOrr>-\T»1A8  t ,13T<^AH3 


-J  --  - /!'  ■ i 


V.^.rV  UI^  ■ , *i'  -‘  ' i*.  . 

■'■'  ^-’  ‘ ■-"■  ♦!  H3TqAH3' 


,..-y- 


’“  i . 


Vj>.-5f>  -V 
K V '■  1. 


c-.^mytTOA  Morrounafl  j^aeoh^AS  iii  psrsAHa 

■ ' 1 " ■ ^ ' a . 

'^-••V  VT  WarOAHO 


r-v-.t, 


•■  f?.*  . -1 


I-  v/e 


S’;  • 


V‘-j,  .-  . ‘Vi’ 


If 


t ^ 


V"  1 . 


iV-V/ 

-‘“;r 


=5# , ■ ;' 

;■■■  iii\  '■»  •'  •* 


'V  ^ 


r 


♦ i 


i:  ti. 


» - 

5 


’ l"  ■ ' ‘ • ' 

■ 'S*^: 


\* 

# ** 


■ 


a-  ^ i 
i 'A  *' 


c 


INTRODUCTION 


If  FSIS  is  to  effectively  perform  its  role  as  a public  health  regulatory  agency,  it 
must  have  a field  force  that  has  a good  understanding  of  how  to  do  its  job  in  a 
way  that  will  help  the  Agency  meet  its  public  health  goals.  The  intent  of  this 
document  is  to  provide  comprehensive  direction  to  FSIS  field  personnel  on  their 
responsibilities  to  protect  the  public  health  by  effecting  the  pathogen  reduction, 
sanitation,  and  HACCP  regulations.  It  provides  this  direction  in  a number  of 
ways.  First,  it  provides  Consumer  Safety  Inspectors  (CSIs)  with  the  steps  they 
will  use  to  perform  the  activities  necessary  to  verify  that  a food  safety  system  is 
operating  in  compliance  with  the  regulations  and  In  a way  that  will  result  in  safe 
food.  It  also  provides  Consumer  Safety  Officers  (CSOs)  with  the  methodology 
that  they  will  use  to  verify  that  the  systems  are  properly  designed,  in  accordance 
with  the  regulations.  Second,  it  provides  CSIs  and  CSOs  with  a series  of 
questions  that  they  are  to  use  in  developing  a thought  process  that  will  help  them 
in  assessing  the  establishment’s  food  safety  system  and  in  making  regulatory 
compliance  determinations.  Third,  it  is  designed  to  assist  the  various  components 
of  the  workforce  to  understand  that  they  each  have  different,  but  complementary, 
responsibilities  in  verifying  that  an  establishment’s  food  safety  system  meets 
regulatory  requirements. 

The  handbook  is  set  out  in  four  chapters.  The  first  chapter  addresses 
Sanitation  Performance  Standards  and  Sanitation  SOPs.  The  second  chapter 
addresses  HACCP;  the  third  chapter  is  on  generic  E.  coli  and  Salmonella 
Performance  Standard  Testing;  and  the  fourth  chapter  covers  documentation  and 
enforcement. 

The  first  three  chapters  provide  CSIs  with: 

1 . a description  of  the  verification  activities  that  they  are  to  perform; 

2.  the  questions  that  they  are  to  consider  In  performing  those  verification 
activities;  and 

3.  some  general  examples  of  noncompliance. 

The  first  three  chapters  also  provide  CSOs  with  the  methodology  that  they  are 
to  use  in  conducting  a comprehensive  assessment  of  food  safety  systems  in 
operation.  The  CSO  conducts  a comprehensive  assessment  of  all  food  safety 
systems  by  assessing  each  individual  food  safety  system  in  the  establishment.  If 
the  CSO  determines  that  there  are  design  flaws  or  execution  problems  in  a 
system,  the  CSO  will  determine  whether  these  flaws  or  problems  have  an  impact 
on  other  food  safety  systems  in  the  establishment  by  comparing  data  from  one 
system  to  another.  The  CSO  has  an  understanding  that  the  food  safety  systems 


should  interact  with  each  other  to  provide  a sanitary  environment  for  the 
manufacture  of  safe  food. 

The  fourth  chapter  provides  CSIs  with: 

1 . instructions  for  completing  an  accurate  and  useful  noncompliance 
record; 

2.  guidance  for  determining  trends  and  relationships  among 
noncompliances;  and 

3.  an  explanation  of  the  Rules  of  Practice. 

In  addition,  this  chapter  provides  CSOs  with  instructions  on  how  to  document 
the  findings  of  the  comprehensive  assessments  of  food  safety  systems  that  they 
perform.  The  CSO  does  not  document  a record  based  on  an  individual  finding 
but  completes  documentation  based  on  an  assessment  of  his  or  her  findings 
about  the  whole  system.  This  documentation  can  support  a conclusion  that  the 
food  safety  systems  in  operation  meet  regulatory  requirements,  or  that  the  food 
safety  systems  in  operation  do  not  meet  regulatory  requirements.  If  an 
establishment  takes  corrective  and  preventive  action  in  response  to  a CSO’s 
comprehensive  assessment,  expressed  in  the  form  of  a 30-day  reassessment 
letter  or  an  NOIE,  the  CSO  will  develop  a verification  plan  for  the  CSI  to  use  to 
verify  the  regulatory  requirements  are  met. 

This  handbook  Is  also  for  use  by  Front-line  Supervisors  and  District  Office 
personnel,  in  conjunction  with  the  IPPS  Supervisory  Guidelines,  to  ensure  that 
CSIs  and  food  inspectors  understand  their  roles  In  appropriately  verifying 
establishments’  food  safety  systems. 

To  use  this  handbook,  CSIs  and  CSOs  must  understand  that  to  appropriately 
verify  food  safety  systems,  they  need  to  employ  critical  thinking.  Each  official 
establishment  has  a unique  food  safety  system  that  should  be  designed  to 
address  that  establishment’s  food  processing  steps  and  environment.  CSIs  and 
CSOs  thus  must  realize  that  verification  is  not  a one-size-fits-all  exercise.  The 
questions  presented  in  this  directive  are  Intended  to  guide  both  CSIs  and  CSOs 
in  an  approach  that  focuses  on  the  specific  food  safety  system  with  which  they 
are  confronted. 

The  examples  provided  In  this  handbook  are  only  examples.  When  following 
the  instructions,  methodology,  and  guidance  in  this  directive,  CSIs  and  CSOs 
need  to  use  their  professional  judgment  to  make  informed  and  factually 
supportable  decisions. 


t 


ACRONYMS  USED  THROUGHOUT  THIS  DOCUMENT 


Aerobic  Plate  Counts  APC 

Association  of  Official  Analytical  Chemists  AOAC 

Consumer  Safety  Inspectors  CSI 

Consumer  Safety  Officers  CSO 

Critical  Control  Point  CCP 

District  Manager  DM 

District  Office  DO 

Environmental  Protection  Agency  EPA 

Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act  FMIA 

Food  and  Drug  Administration  FDA 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  FSIS 

Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Point  HACCP 

In-Depth  Verification  Review  IDV 

Inspection  System  Procedure  ISP 

Inspector-In-Charge  IIC 

Listeria  monocytogenes  Lm 

Most  Probable  Number  MPN 

National  Advisory  Committee  on 

Microbiological  Criteria  for  Foods  NACMCF 

Noncompliance  Record  NR 

Notice  of  Intended  Enforcement  Action  NOIE 


Other  Consumer  Protection 


OCP 


PREP 


Pathogen  Reduction  Enforcement  Program 

Performance  Based  Inspection  System  PBIS 

Poultry  Products  Inspection  Act  PPIA 

Ready-to-Eat  RTE 

Sanitation  Performance  Standards  SPS 

Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedures  Sanitation 

SOP 

Supervisory  Veterinary  Medical  Officer  SVMO 

Technical  Service  Center  TSC 


Table  1.  Sanitation  Performance  Standards 


I 


Table  2.  Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedures 


Table  3.  HACCP  Verification  Procedures 


> 


Table  4.  Pathogen  Reduction  Verification  Procedures 


§ 

ob 

cd 

GJ) 

C 

'3 

I 


Vh 

_o 

'C 

p. 

I 

■5. 

c3 

GO 

P 

O 

’> 

d) 

}-i 

>-i 

o 

(/} 


(D 

Ph 

p 

d) 

P 


P 

c§ 

d) 

43 

H 

* 


CHAPTER  I TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 
SANITATION 


TOPIC  PAGE 

Introduction  1-1 

Part  I Sanitation  Performance  Standards  (SPS)  I-2 

CSIs  I-3-29 

Part  I Verification  for  SPS  I-3-4 

Part  II  Verification  for  Grounds  and  Pest  Control  I-4-6 

Part  III  Verification  for  Construction  I-6-8 

Part  IV  Verification  for  Lighting  I-8-9 

Part  V Verification  for  Ventilation  I-9 

Part  VI  Verification  for  Plumbing  and  Sewage  I-10-1 1 

Part  VII  Verification  for  Water  Supply  and  Water, 

Ice  and  Solution  Reuse  1-11-14 

Part  VIII  Verification  for  Dressing  Rooms  and 

Lavatories  1-14-15 

Part  IX  Verification  for  Equipment  and  Utensils  1-1 5-1 7 

Part  X Verification  for  Sanitary  Operations  1-1 8 

Part  XI  Verification  for  Employee  Hygiene  1-18-20 

Part  XII  Sanitation  SOPs  1-20 

Part  XIII  Inspection  Procedures  1-20-23 

01B01  Procedure  1-21 

01C01  Procedure  1-21-22 

01 B02  Procedure  1-22 

01C02  Procedure  1-23 


Part  XIV  Verification  for  Implementation  and  Monitoring  1-23-24 

Part  XV  Verification  for  Maintenance  1-24-25 

Part  XVI  Verification  for  Corrective  Actions  1-25-26 

Part  XVII  Verification  for  Recordkeeping  1-26-27 

CSOs  1-28-29 

Part  I Sanitation  Performance  Standards  1-28 

Part  II  Sanitation  SOPs  1-28-29 


CHAPTER  I - SANITATION 


I.  Introduction 

The  FMIA  and  PPIA  both  establish  that  a meat  or  poultry  product  is 
adulterated  If  it  has  “been  prepared,  packed,  or  held  under  insanitary  conditions 
whereby  it  may  have  become  contaminated  with  filth,  or  whereby  It  may  have 
been  rendered  Injurious  to  health.”  When  FSIS  personnel  Inspect  the  grounds, 
facilities,  and  equipment  at  meat  and  poultry  establishments,  they  are  looking  for 
these  insanitary  conditions.  To  determine  whether  conditions  In  or  around  an 
establishment  are  insanitary,  inspection  program  personnel  must  ask  the 
question  posed  by  the  Acts:  “Could  these  conditions  cause  product  to  be 
contaminated  with  filth  or  cause  product  to  be  unsafe?” 

There  are  so  many  ways  that  Insanitary  conditions  can  cause  product  to  be 
adulterated  that  they  cannot  all  be  listed.  Instead,  this  handbook  explains  the 
Intent  of  the  sanitation  regulations  and  gives  examples  of  some  of  the  ways 
inspection  program  personnel  can  determine  whether  a meat  or  poultry 
establishment  is  operating  under  insanitary  conditions. 

Inspected  establishments  must  meet  two  sets  of  regulations  concerning 
sanitation:  The  Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedures  (Sanitation  SOP) 
requirements  and  the  Sanitation  Performance  Standards  (SPS).  Under  the 
Sanitation  SOP  requirements,  each  establishment  must  develop,  implement,  and 
maintain  written  procedures  for  the  actions  it  takes  daily,  before  and  during 
operations,  to  prevent  product  from  being  directly  contaminated  and  adulterated. 
An  establishment’s  Sanitation  SOP  typically  covers  the  scheduled,  daily  pre- 
operational  and  operational  cleaning  and  sanitation  of  equipment  and  surfaces 
that  may  contact  product  directly.  The  SPS  regulations  cover  all  of  the  other 
aspects  of  plant  sanitation  that  can  affect  food  safety,  e.g.,  pest  control,  adequate 
ventilation  and  lighting,  and  plumbing  systems.  Keep  In  mind  that  these  two  sets 
of  regulations  overlap  somewhat  in  the  plant  activities  they  cover.  Also,  some 
establishments  may  address  certain  sanitation  problems  within  their  HACCP 
plans. 


I-l 


Part  XIV  Verification  for  Implementation  and  Monitoring  1-23-24 

Part  XV  Verification  for  Maintenance  1-24-25 

Part  XVI  Verification  for  Corrective  Actions  1-25-26 

Part  XVII  Verification  for  Recordkeeping  1-26-27 

CSOs  1-28-29 

Part  I Sanitation  Performance  Standards  1-28 

Part  II  Sanitation  SOPs  1-28-29 


CHAPTER  I - SANITATION 


I.  Introduction 

The  FMIA  and  PPIA  both  establish  that  a meat  or  poultry  product  is 
adulterated  if  it  has  “been  prepared,  packed,  or  held  under  insanitary  conditions 
whereby  it  may  have  become  contaminated  with  filth,  or  whereby  it  may  have 
been  rendered  injurious  to  health.”  When  FSIS  personnel  inspect  the  grounds, 
facilities,  and  equipment  at  meat  and  poultry  establishments,  they  are  looking  for 
these  insanitary  conditions.  To  determine  whether  conditions  in  or  around  an 
establishment  are  insanitary,  inspection  program  personnel  must  ask  the 
question  posed  by  the  Acts:  “Could  these  conditions  cause  product  to  be 
contaminated  with  filth  or  cause  product  to  be  unsafe?” 

There  are  so  many  ways  that  insanitary  conditions  can  cause  product  to  be 
adulterated  that  they  cannot  all  be  listed.  Instead,  this  handbook  explains  the 
intent  of  the  sanitation  regulations  and  gives  examples  of  some  of  the  ways 
Inspection  program  personnel  can  determine  whether  a meat  or  poultry 
establishment  is  operating  under  insanitary  conditions. 

Inspected  establishments  must  meet  two  sets  of  regulations  concerning 
sanitation:  The  Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedures  (Sanitation  SOP) 
requirements  and  the  Sanitation  Performance  Standards  (SPS).  Under  the 
Sanitation  SOP  requirements,  each  establishment  must  develop,  implement,  and 
maintain  written  procedures  for  the  actions  it  takes  daily,  before  and  during 
operations,  to  prevent  product  from  being  directly  contaminated  and  adulterated. 
An  establishment’s  Sanitation  SOP  typically  covers  the  scheduled,  daily  pre- 
operational  and  operational  cleaning  and  sanitation  of  equipment  and  surfaces 
that  may  contact  product  directly.  The  SPS  regulations  cover  all  of  the  other 
aspects  of  plant  sanitation  that  can  affect  food  safety,  e.g.,  pest  control,  adequate 
ventilation  and  lighting,  and  plumbing  systems.  Keep  in  mind  that  these  two  sets 
of  regulations  overlap  somewhat  in  the  plant  activities  they  cover.  Also,  some 
establishments  may  address  certain  sanitation  problems  within  their  HACCP 
plans. 


I-l 


PART  I » Sanitation  Performance  Standards 

A.  What  are  the  general  regulatory  requirements  for  the  SPS? 

Section  416.1  states:  Each  official  establishment  must  be  operated  and 
maintained  in  a manner  sufficient  to  prevent  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions 
and  to  ensure  that  product  is  not  adulterated. 

The  FSIS  regulations  in  9 CFR  416.2  to  416.5  set  forth  more  specific 
performance  standards  that  each  official  establishment  must  meet  to  prevent  the 
creation  of  insanitary  conditions  that  could  cause  the  adulteration  of  meat  and 
poultry  products.  These  regulations  provide  the  sanitation  standards  the 
establishment  must  meet  for  the  Federal  mark  of  Inspection  to  be  applied  to  its 
products.  Some  of  the  SPS  address  conditions  within  or  around  the 
establishment  (e.g.,  ventilation,  lighting,  facility  and  equipment  construction,  and 
maintenance  of  the  grounds).  Other  SPS  address  establishment  operations  and 
so  may  be  met  by  an  establishment  through  its  Sanitation  SOP  (e.g.,  sanitizing  of 
food  contact  surfaces)  or  its  HACCP  plan  (e.g.,  water  reuse). 

B.  What  is  the  relationship  between  the  SPS  and  the  Sanitation  SOPs? 

The  SPS  regulations  and  the  Sanitation  SOP  regulations  are  set  out  in 
separate  sections  of  9 CFR  part  416.  Compliance  with  both,  however,  is 
necessary  if  an  establishment  is  to  prevent  the  creation  of  Insanitary  conditions 
that  can  cause  the  adulteration  of  product.  The  SPS  regulations  define  generally 
what  the  establishment’s  sanitation  efforts  must  accomplish  to  maintain  the 
facilities  and  environment  in  a sanitary  condition.  The  Sanitation  SOP 
regulations  define  specifically  what  the  establishment  must  accomplish  to  prevent 
direct  contamination  of  product.  Establishment  management  may  choose  to 
address  some  of  the  SPS  requirements  in  their  written  Sanitation  SOP  or  even 
within  their  HACCP  plan. 


1-2 


CSIs 


PART  I - Verification  Activities  for  Sanitation  Performance  Standards 

A.  In  general,  how  do  CSIs  verify  the  Sanitation  Performance 
Standards? 

As  scheduled  by  the  PBIS,  CSIs  verify  that  establishments  are  complying  with 
the  SPS  (9  CFR  416.2  - 416.5)  and  the  Sanitation  SOPs  (9  CFR  416.1 1 - 
416.16). 

CSIs  may  directly  observe  conditions  in  the  establishment  or  review  records 
to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  complying  with  the  sanitation  regulatory 
requirements. 

9 CFR  416.4(c)  requires  that  an  establishment  have  “documentation 
substantiating  the  safety  of  a chemical’s  use  in  a food  processing  environment,” 

9 CFR  416.2(g)  states:  “If  an  establishment  uses  a municipal  water  supply,  It 
must  make  available  to  FSIS,  upon  request,  a water  report,  issued  under  the 
authority  of  the  State  or  local  health  agency,  certifying  or  attesting  to  the 
potability  of  the  water  supply.  If  an  establishment  uses  a private  well  for  its  water 
supply.  It  must  make  available  to  FSIS,  upon  request,  documentation  certifying 
the  potability  of  the  water  supply  that  has  been  renewed  at  least  semi-annually.” 
The  other  SPS  regulations  do  not  require  that  an  establishment  maintain  records 
of  the  procedures  that  it  uses  to  meet  these  performance  standards. 
Establishments  may  incorporate  SPS  procedures  as  part  of  its  Sanitation  SOPs, 
in  which  case  they  would  have  to  meet  the  relevant  recordkeeping  requirements 
for  Sanitation  SOPs. 

If  an  establishment’s  procedures,  or  the  prerequisite  programs  that  it  uses  to 
meet  the  SPS,  are  referenced  in  the  hazard  analysis,  FIACCP  plan,  or  Sanitation 
SOP,  the  records  associated  with  the  procedures  are  required  to  be  available  to 
FSIS. 

Most  of  the  time  the  CSIs  will  verify  compliance  with  the  SPS  regulatory 
requirements  by  directly  observing  the  conditions  in  the  establishment. 

The  06D01  procedure  Is  used  to  verify  compliance  with  the  SPS  requirements 
in  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment.  If  the  CSI  determines  that  the 
establishment  is  meeting  the  sanitation  regulatory  requirements  in  a particular 
area  of  the  establishment,  the  procedure  would  be  documented  on  the  procedure 
schedule  as  performed.  The  CSI  must  use  professional  knowledge  and  good 
judgment  in  making  the  determination  whether  the  SPS  requirements  are  met. 
The  CSI  must  assess  the  situation  in  the  establishment  and  then  determine 
whether  the  situation  creates  Insanitary  conditions,  causes  adulteration  of 
product,  or  prevents  FSIS  from  performing  inspection.  This  means  that  there  can 


1-3 


be  conditions  in  the  facility  that  are  less  than  perfect  but  that  would  not  represent 
noncompliance  with  the  SPS  regulatory  requirements  because  they  are  not 
creating  insanitary  conditions,  adulterating  product,  or  preventing  FSIS  personnel 
from  performing  inspection  activities. 

If  the  establishment  is  not  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements,  it  is  the  CSI’s 
responsibility  to  initiate  the  appropriate  regulatory  control  actions  to  gain 
regulatory  compliance.  The  examples  used  in  this  section  are  to  demonstrate 
the  decisionmaking  process  that  the  CSI  might  use  In  making  regulatory 
compliance  determinations. 

PART  II  « Verification  of  the  Grounds  and  Pest  Control 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  grounds  and  pest  control? 

Section  416.2  (a)  states:  The  grounds  about  an  establishment  must  be 
maintained  to  prevent  conditions  that  could  lead  to  insanitary  conditions, 
adulteration  of  product,  or  interfere  with  inspection  by  FSIS  program  employees. 
Establishments  must  have  in  place  a pest  management  program  to  prevent 
harborage  and  breeding  of  pests  on  the  grounds  and  within  establishment 
facilities.  Pest  control  substances  used  must  be  safe  and  effective  under  the 
conditions  of  use  and  not  be  applied  or  stored  in  a manner  that  wilt  result  in  the 
adulteration  of  product  or  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions. 

B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  the  grounds  provision  of  416.2(a)? 

Establishment  situations  will  dictate  the  level  of  verification  that  must  be  done. 
Although  an  establishment  must  have  a pest  management  program,  it  need  not 
be  written.  If  establishment  management  decides  to  have  a written  program,  it 
may  or  may  not  be  included  in  the  Sanitation  SOP.  If  the  establishment  has 
included  a written  pest  management  program  as  part  of  the  Sanitation  SOP,  the 
CSI  verification  activities  should  include  reviewing  the  Sanitation  SOP,  reviewing 
the  Sanitation  SOP  records,  and  directly  observing  the  procedures  being 
monitored.  The  CSI  should  verify  that  the  procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOP  are 
being  Implemented  and  monitored,  that  the  establishment  Is  documenting  in  the 
Sanitation  SOP  records  the  monitoring  of  the  procedures,  and  that  any 
necessary  corrective  actions  are  taken. 

Verification  is  much  different  if  the  establishment  has  no  written  procedures. 
Since  there  are  no  recordkeeping  requirements  for  grounds  and  pest  control,  the 
CSI  will  verify  that  the  establishment  is  meeting  the  requirements  by  making 
observations  of  the  outside  grounds  and  pest  control.  The  CSI  will  check  the 
outside  premises  to  verify  that  there  are  no  breeding  or  harborage  areas  for 
pests.  The  CSI  will  also  verify  that  there  is  no  harborage  or  breeding  of  pests 
within  the  establishment  by  inspecting  areas  of  the  establishment  for  evidence  of 
pests.  Noncompliance  with  this  regulatory  requirement  does  not  have  to  involve 


1-4 


evidence  of  pests.  The  outside  grounds  and  areas  within  the  establishment 
should  be  evaluated  to  verify  that  no  harborage  or  breeding  area  exists.  If  there 
are  areas  outside  or  inside  the  establishment  that  are  providing  harborage  or 
breeding  areas  for  pests,  there  is  noncompliance  with  this  requirement.  When 
verifying  this  regulatory  requirement,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the 
following  questions: 

1 . Are  all  outside  areas  on  the  official  premises  maintained  in  a 
manner  to  prevent  harborage  and  breeding  of  pests? 

2.  Are  all  areas  within  the  establishment  maintained  in  a manner 
to  prevent  harborage  and  breeding  of  pests? 

3.  Does  the  establishment  have  a pest  management  program? 

4.  Does  the  establishment  have  a written  pest  management 
program  as  part  of  the  Sanitation  SOP? 

5.  If  the  pest  management  program  is  part  of  the  Sanitation  SOP, 
is  the  establishment  monitoring  this  program? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

CSIs  will  have  to  use  good  judgment  in  making  compliance  determinations. 
The  CSI  must  assess  all  of  the  information  associated  with  every  observation. 

For  example,  the  CSI  observes  tall  weeds  around  the  facility.  Before  making  a 
determination  about  regulatory  compliance,  the  CSI  should  determine  whether 
the  weeds  and  grass  permit  harborage  and  breeding.  If  the  weeds  are  scattered 
and  do  not  permit  harborage  and  breeding,  there  is  not  noncompliance.  If  the 
weeds  are  so  dense  as  to  permit  concealment  and  breeding,  there  Is 
noncompliance  with  these  regulations. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

D.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  the  pest  control  substance 
provision  of  416.2(a)? 

The  second  part  of  this  section  of  the  regulations  covers  the  safety,  conditions 
of  use,  and  the  application  and  storage  of  pest  control  substances.  The  CSI  will 
need  to  gain  information  about  the  safety  of  any  such  substances  the 
establishment  has  on  hand,  the  conditions  of  use,  and  how  they  are  stored  and 
applied  when  verifying  compliance  with  these  regulations.  Some  of  the 
information  needed  could  include  answers  to  the  following  questions: 


1-5 


1 . Does  the  establishment  have  documentation  on  file  about  the  i \ 

safety  of  the  pest  control  substances? 

2.  Does  the  documentation  on  file  include  how  the  pest  control 
substances  are  to  be  used? 

3.  Are  the  pest  control  substances  being  applied  as  per  the  conditions  and 
use? 

E.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

This  provision  is  very  straightforward  because  of  the  potential  for  products 
being  adulterated  if  pest  control  substances  are  misused  or  are  not  used 
according  to  the  documentation  on  file.  Therefore,  If  the  establishment  does  not 
have  documentation  on  file  that  the  substances  are  safe  and  effective,  and  on 
how  the  substances  are  to  be  used,  there  is  noncompliance  with  this  provision.  If 
the  establishment  is  applying  the  substances  differently  than  the  documented 
uses,  there  is  noncompliance.  There  is  also  noncompliance  if  the  establishment 
is  storing  these  substances  in  a manner  that  could  result  in  product  adulteration. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  In  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  I 

PART  III  --  Construction 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  construction? 

Section  416.2  (b)  states: 

(1)  Establishment  buildings,  including  their  structures,  rooms,  and  compartments 
must  be  of  sound  construction,  be  kept  in  good  repair,  and  be  of  sufficient  size  to 
allow  for  processing,  handling,  and  storage  of  product  in  a manner  that  does  not 
result  in  product  adulteration  or  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions. 

(2)  Walls,  floors,  and  ceilings  within  establishments  must  be  built  of  durable 
materials  impervious  to  moisture  and  be  cleaned  and  sanitized  as  necessary  to 
prevent  adulteration  of  product  or  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions. 

(3)  Walls,  floors,  ceilings,  doors,  windows,  and  other  outside  openings  must  be 
constructed  and  maintained  to  prevent  the  entrance  of  vermin,  such  as  flies,  rats, 
and  mice. 

(4)  Rooms  or  compartments  in  which  edible  product  is  processed,  handled,  or 

stored  must  be  separate  and  distinct  from  rooms  or  compartments  in  which  , H 


1-6 


inedible  product  is  processed,  handled  or  stored,  to  the  extent  necessary  to 
prevent  product  adulteration  and  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions. 

B.  How  are  CSls  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.2(b),  the  CSI  should  assess  the 
construction  of  the  facility  in  one  or  more  areas.  To  do  this,  the  CSI  needs  to 
seek  answers  to  questions  like  the  following: 

1.  Are  the  buildings.  Including  their  structures,  rooms,  and  compartments, 
kept  in  good  repair,  and  are  they  of  sufficient  size  to  allow  for  processing, 
handling,  and  storage  of  product? 

2.  Are  the  walls,  floors,  and  ceilings  cleaned  and  sanitized  as  necessary? 

3.  Are  the  structures,  rooms,  and  compartments  kept  in  good  repair? 

4.  Are  the  rooms  and  compartments  of  sufficient  size  to  allow  for 
processing,  handling,  and  storage  of  product? 

5.  Are  the  walls,  floors,  ceilings,  doors,  windows,  and  other  outside  openings 
constructed  and  maintained  to  prevent  the  entrance  of  vermin,  such  as  flies,  rats, 
and  mice? 

6.  Are  edible  products  and  inedible  products  processed,  handled,  and 
stored  in  a manner  that  prevents  product  adulteration  and  the  creation  of 
insanitary  conditions?  Are  they  processed,  handled,  and  stored  separately?  If 
not,  is  there  an  opportunity  for  cross-contamination? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is 
noncompliance  with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  must  realize  that  it  is  the  establishment’s  responsibility  to  maintain 
the  facilities  in  a manner  that  will  not  adulterate  product  or  create  insanitary 
conditions.  When  the  CSI  is  conducting  verification  procedure  06D01 , he  or  she 
may  observe  situations  in  the  establishment  In  which  compliance  is  not  evident. 
The  CSI  must  evaluate  all  the  Information  associated  with  the  observation  before 
making  a compliance  decision.  The  CSI  must  remember  that  the  standard  used 
for  this  requirement  is  the  SPS  regulations.  The  CSI  is  to  assess  the  condition 
observed  In  light  of  the  regulatory  requirement  and  decide  whether  regulatory 
requirements  have  been  met. 

For  example,  the  CSI  observes  an  area  in  the  establishment  that  appears  to 
be  of  insufficient  size  to  allow  for  storing  of  product  in  a manner  that  prevents 
Insanitary  conditions  and  consequent  product  adulteration.  The  CSC  should 
assess  the  entire  situation.  If  the  establishment  is  able  to  maintain  this  area  in  a 


1-7 


sanitary  condition,  the  establishment  is  in  compliance  with  the  regulation.  If  there  ^ 

is  not  adequate  space  in  the  area  to  permit  the  area  to  be  maintained  in  a 
sanitary  manner,  there  is  noncompliance  with  this  provision.  For  example,  if  the 
floors  and  walls  cannot  be  cleaned  regularly  because  of  the  overcrowded 
conditions,  there  is  noncompliance  with  this  provision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  IV  ■■  Lighting 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  lighting? 

Section  416.2  (c)  states:  Lighting  of  good  quality  and  sufficient  intensity  to 
ensure  that  sanitary  conditions  are  maintained  and  that  product  is  not  adulterated 
must  be  provided  in  areas  where  food  is  processed,  handled,  stored,  or 
examined;  where  equipment  and  utensils  are  cleaned;  and  in  hand-washing 
areas,  dressing  and  locker  rooms,  and  toilets. 

B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.2(c),  the  CSI  should  assess  the 
lighting  in  the  facility  in  one  or  more  areas.  While  in  these  areas  verifying  these 
requirements,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like  the  following: 

1 . Are  the  intensity  and  quality  of  lighting  adequate  for  the  establishment  to 
determine  that  the  products  being  processed,  handled,  stored,  or  examined  are 
unadulterated,  and  that  sanitary  conditions  are  maintained? 

2.  Are  the  intensity  and  quality  of  lighting  adequate  for  the  establishment  to 
determine  that  equipment  and  utensils  are  appropriately  cleaned? 

3.  Are  the  intensity  and  quality  of  lighting  adequate  in  the  hand-washing 
areas,  dressing  and  locker  rooms,  and  toilets  for  the  establishment  to  determine 
that  sanitary  conditions  are  maintained? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

Since  this  section  of  the  regulation  does  not  set  specific  amounts  of  lighting 
required,  the  CSI  cannot  go  to  an  area  of  the  establishment  with  a light  meter 
and  make  a compliance  determination.  When  the  CSI  is  verifying  this 
requirement  performing  the  06D01  procedure,  he  or  she  will  have  to  use  good 
judgment  and  a sound  decisionmaking  process  to  determine  compliance.  The 
CSI  may  observe  an  area  of  the  establishment  that  appears  to  have  inadequate 
lighting.  He  or  she  must  assess  the  condition  in  that  area  to  determine  whether 


1-8 


the  lighting  is  adequate  for  the  establishment  to  ensure  that  sanitary  conditions 
are  maintained,  and  that  product  is  not  adulterated.  If  this  is  the  case,  there  is 
compliance  with  this  provision.  If  the  lighting  is  not  adequate  to  ensure  that 
sanitary  conditions  are  maintained  and  that  product  is  not  adulterated,  there  is 
noncompliance  with  this  provision.  For  example,  if  the  lighting  is  not  adequate 
to  enable  establishment  employees  to  determine  whether  a substance  on 
product  is  fecal  material,  the  lighting  is  inadequate,  and  there  is  noncompliance. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  V " Ventilation 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  on  ventilation? 

Section  416.2  (d)  states:  Ventilation  adequate  to  control  odors,  vapors,  and 
condensation  to  the  extent  necessary  to  prevent  adulteration  of  product  and  the 
creation  of  insanitary  conditions  must  be  provided. 

B.  How  may  CSIs  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.2(d),  the  CSI  should  assess  the 
ventilation  in  the  facility  in  one  or  more  areas.  While  in  these  areas  verifying 
these  requirements,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like  the 
following: 

1 . Is  the  ventilation  adequate  to  control  objectionable  odors  and  vapors  that 
could  adulterate  product  or  mask  the  odor  of  spoiled  or  otherwise  adulterated 
product? 

2.  Is  the  ventilation  adequate  to  control  condensation? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  observes  fog  or  smoke  in  the  cooked  meats  cooler.  When  entering 
the  cooler.  It  appeared  that  the  ventilation  was  not  adequate  to  control  vapors. 
The  CSI  assesses  the  situation  and  determines  that  the  establishment  has 
placed  10  trays  of  warm  product  in  the  area.  The  CSI  observes  that  the  vapor  in 
the  room  dissipates  before  forming  any  moisture  on  the  ceiling.  In  this  situation, 
there  is  not  noncompliance.  If  the  vapor  coming  from  the  warm  product  does 
form  moisture  on  the  ceiling,  creating  an  insanitary  condition,  there  is 
noncompliance  with  this  provision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


1-9 


PART  VI  --  Plumbing  and  Sewage 
A.  What  are  the  regulations  related  to  plumbing  and  sewage? 

Section  416.2  (e)  states:  Plumbing  systems  must  be  installed  and  maintained  to: 


(1)  Carry  sufficient  quantities  of  water  to  required  locations  throughout  the 
establishment; 

(2)  Properly  convey  sewage  and  liquid  disposable  waste  from  the  establishment; 

(3)  Prevent  adulteration  of  product,  water  supplies,  equipment,  and  utensils  and 
prevent  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions  throughout  the  establishment; 

(4)  Provide  adequate  floor  drainage  in  all  areas  where  floors  are  subject  to 
flooding-type  cleaning  or  where  normal  operations  release  or  discharge  water  or 
other  liquid  waste  on  the  floor; 

(5)  Prevent  back-flow  conditions  in  and  cross-connection  between  piping 
systems  that  discharge  waste  water  or  sewage  and  piping  systems  that  carry 
water  for  product  manufacturing;  and 

(6)  Prevent  the  backup  of  sewer  gases. 

Section  416.2  (f)  states:  Sewage  must  be  disposed  into  a sewage  system 
separate  from  ail  other  drainage  lines  or  disposed  of  through  other  means 
sufficient  to  prevent  backup  of  sewage  into  areas  where  product  is  processed, 
handled,  or  stored.  When  the  sewage  disposal  system  is  a private  system 
requiring  approval  by  a State  or  local  health  authority,  the  establishment  must 
furnish  FSIS  with  the  letter  of  approval  from  that  authority  upon  request. 

B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.2(e)  and  (f),  the  CSI  should 
assess  the  plumbing  in  the  facility  in  one  or  more  areas.  While  in  these  areas 
verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like 
the  following: 

1 . Are  sufficient  quantities  of  water  provided  throughout  the  establishment? 

2.  Does  the  plumbing  system  properly  convey  sewage  and  disposable 
waste  from  the  establishment? 

3.  Does  the  plumbing  system  provide  adequate  floor  drainage?  ( 


I-IO 


4.  Is  the  plumbing  installed  to  prevent  back-flow  conditions  and  cross- 
connections  between  piping  systems  that  discharge  waste  water  or  sewage  and 
piping  systems  that  carry  water  for  product  manufacturing? 

5.  Is  the  plumbing  installed  to  prevent  the  backup  of  sewer  gases? 

6.  Is  the  sewage  disposed  into  a sewage  system  separate  from  all  other 
drainage  lines  or  other  means  to  prevent  backup  of  sewage  into  areas  where 
product  is  processed,  handled,  or  stored? 

7.  If  the  sewage  disposal  system  is  a private  system  requiring  approval  by  a 
State  or  local  health  authority,  is  the  letter  of  approval  available  to  FSIS  upon 
request? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  is  in  the  area  of  the  plant  where  several  water-cooking  units  are 
being  drained  simultaneously.  There  is  a gutter  drain  that  the  water  is  drained 
into,  and  the  end  of  a cleanup  hose  Is  submerged  in  the  gutter  drain.  The  CSI 
thinks  there  is  noncompliance  with  this  provision  but  decides  to  evaluate  the 
situation  further.  The  CSI  finds  a vacuum  breaker  at  the  cleanup  station  to 
prevent  back  siphonage.  The  CSI  determines  there  Is  not  noncompliance.  If 
there  had  been  nothing  to  prevent  back  siphonage,  there  would  be 
noncompliance  with  this  provision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  VII  --  Water  Supply  and  Water,  Ice,  and  Solution  Reuse 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  water  supply? 

Section  416.2  (g)  states:  (1)  A supply  of  running  water  that  complies  with  the 
National  Primary  Drinking  Water  regulations  (40  CFR  part  141),  at  a suitable 
temperature  and  under  pressure  as  needed,  must  be  provided  in  all  areas  where 
required  (for  processing  product,  for  cleaning  rooms  and  equipment,  utensils, 
and  packaging  materials,  for  employee  sanitary  facilities,  etc.).  If  an 
establishment  uses  a municipal  water  supply,  it  must  make  available  to  FSIS, 
upon  request,  a water  report,  issued  under  the  authority  of  the  State  or  local 
health  agency,  certifying  or  attesting  to  the  potability  of  the  water  supply.  If  an 
establishment  uses  a private  well  for  its  water  supply,  it  must  make  availabie  to 
FSIS,  upon  request,  documentation  certifying  the  potability  of  the  water  supply 
that  has  been  renewed  at  least  semi-annually. 


I-ll 


B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 


When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.2(g),  the  CSI  should  check  the 
water  in  the  facility  in  one  or  more  areas. 

While  in  these  areas,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like  the 
following: 

1 . Does  the  establishment  have  documentation  that  the  water  in  the 
establishment  complies  with  the  EPA’s  National  Primary  Drinking  Water 
Regulations? 

2.  Is  there  adequate  water  pressure,  at  a suitable  temperature.  In  all  areas 
where  required,  for  example,  for  processing  product;  for  cleaning  rooms  and 
equipment,  utensils,  and  packaging  materials;  for  employee  sanitary  facilities? 

3.  If  the  establishment  uses  a municipal  water  supply,  does  it  have  a water 
report  issued  under  the  authority  of  the  State  or  local  health  agency  certifying  or 
attesting  to  the  potability  of  the  water  supply? 

4.  If  the  establishment  uses  a private  well  for  its  water  supply,  does  the 
establishment  have  on  file  documentation  certifying  the  potability  of  the  water 
supply  that  is  renewed  semi-annually? 

C.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  reuse  of  water,  ice,  and  solutions  for 
RTE  product? 

Section  416.2(g)(2)  states:  Water,  ice,  and  solutions  (such  as  brine,  liquid  smoke, 
or  propylene  glycol)  used  to  chill  or  cook  ready-to-eat  product  may  be  reused  for 
the  same  purpose,  provided  that  they  are  maintained  free  of  pathogenic 
organisms  and  fecal  coliform  organisms  and  that  other  physical,  chemical,  and 
microbiological  contamination  have  been  reduced  to  prevent  adulteration  of 
product 

D.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

The  CSI  should  determine  whether  the  establishment  is  reusing  water,  ice,  or 
solutions  (such  as  brine,  liquid  smoke,  or  propylene  glycol)  to  chill  or  cook  RTE 
product. 

If  the  establishment  is  reusing  water,  ice,  or  solutions  to  cook  or  chill  RTE 
products,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  these  type  of  questions: 

1 . Are  water,  ice,  and  solutions  that  are  reused  maintained  free  of 
pathogenic  organisms  and  fecal  coliform  organisms? 


1-12 


2.  Is  other  physical,  chemical,  and  microbiological  contamination  reduced  to 
prevent  adulteration  of  product? 

3.  Did  the  establishment  consider  water,  ice,  and  solution  reuse  in  the 
hazard  analysis? 

4.  If  the  establishment  considered  water,  ice,  and  solution  reuse  In  the 
hazard  analysis  and  found  a food  safety  hazard  reasonably  likely  to  occur.  Is 
there  a CCP  in  the  HACCP  plan  to  address  this  hazard? 

E.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  reuse  of  water,  ice,  and  solutions  for 
raw  product? 

Section  416.2(g)  states:  (3)  Water,  ice,  and  solutions  to  chill  or  wash  raw  product 
may  be  reused  for  the  same  purpose  provided  that  measures  are  taken  to  reduce 
physical,  chemical,  and  microbiological  contamination  so  as  to  prevent 
contamination  or  adulteration  of  product  Reuse  that  which  has  come  into 
contact  with  raw  product  may  not  be  used  on  ready-to-eat  product 

(4)  Reconditioned  water  that  has  never  contained  human  waste  and  that  has 
been  treated  by  an  onsite  advanced  wastewater  treatment  facility  may  be  used 
on  raw  product  except  in  product  formulation,  and  throughout  the  facility  in 
edible  and  inedible  production  areas,  provided  that  measures  are  taken  to  ensure 
that  this  water  meets  the  criteria  prescribed  in  paragraph  (g)(1)  of  this  section. 
Product  facilities,  equipment  and  utensils  coming  in  contact  with  this  water  must 
undergo  a separate  final  rinse  with  non-reconditioned  water  that  meets  the 
criteria  prescribed  in  paragraph  (g)(1)  of  this  section. 

(5)  Any  water  that  has  never  contained  human  waste  and  that  is  free  of 
pathogenic  organisms  may  be  used  in  edible  and  inedible  product  areas, 
provided  it  does  not  contact  edible  product.  For  example,  such  reuse  water  may 
be  used  to  move  heavy  solids,  to  flush  the  bottom  of  open  evisceration  troughs, 
or  to  wash  antemortem  areas,  livestock  pens,  trucks,  poultry  cages,  picker 
aprons,  picking  room  floors,  and  similar  areas  within  the  establishment. 

(6)  Water  that  does  not  meet  the  use  conditions  of  paragraphs  (g)(1)  through 
(g)(5)  of  this  section  may  not  be  used  in  areas  where  edible  product  is  handled  or 
prepared  or  in  any  manner  that  would  allow  it  to  adulterate  edible  product  or 
create  insanitary  conditions. 

F.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

CSIs  should  review  sections  of  the  establishment’s  Sanitation  SOP  or  HACCP 
plan  that  address  water  supply  and  water,  ice,  and  solution  reuse  before 
considering  the  actual  establishment  condition.  They  should  assess  program 


1-13 


effectiveness  pertaining  to  water  supply  and  water,  ice,  and  solution  reuse 
through  observing  actual  establishment  conditions  and  considering  the  following: 


1 . Is  the  potable  water  supply  from  a municipal  source?  If  not,  does  the 
certification  or  other  documentation  on  file  evidence  that  the  establishment’s 
potable  water  supply  meets  the  EPA’s  primary  potability  requirements  for 
sources  of  drinking  water? 

2.  Is  there  an  adequate  supply  of  potable  water  in  the  establishment? 

3.  Are  the  ice-making  equipment,  rooms,  and  augers  maintained  in 
good  repair  and  sanitary  condition? 

4.  Is  water,  ice,  and  solutions  reuse  accomplished  properly  and 
according  to  9 CFR  416.2? 

NOTE:  The  regulations  state  that  water  may  be  reused  "for  the  same  purpose.” 

This  means  that  water  used  to  wash  or  otherwise  process  raw  product  may  be 
reused  to  wash  or  otherwise  process  raw  product,  even  at  a different  point  in 
processing,  provided  that  “measures  are  taken  to  reduce  physical,  chemical,  or 
microbiological  contamination.”  For  example,  an  establishment  could  reuse 
poultry  chiller  water  in  a scalding  tank.  Furthermore,  water  used  to  process  RTE 
product  could  be  reused  to  wash  or  process  raw  product.  But  water  used  to  ( 

process  raw  product  may  not  be  reused  to  process  RTE  product.  For  example, 
an  establishment  could  not  reuse  poultry  chiller  water  for  cooking  or  cooling 
packaged  RTE  product. 

PART  VIII  --  Dressing  Rooms  and  Lavatories 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  dressing  rooms  and  lavatories? 

Section  416.2  (h)  states:  (1)  Dressing  rooms,  toilet  rooms  and  urinals  must  be 
sufficient  in  number,  ample  in  size,  conveniently  located,  and  maintained  in  a 
sanitary  condition  and  in  good  repair  at  all  times  to  ensure  cleanliness  of  all 
persons  handling  any  product  They  must  be  separate  from  the  rooms  and 
compartments  in  which  products  are  processed,  stored,  or  handled. 

(2)  Lavatories  with  running  hot  and  cold  water,  soap,  and  towels  must  be  placed 
in  or  near  toilet  and  urinal  rooms  and  at  such  other  places  in  the  establishment 
as  necessary  to  ensure  cleanliness  of  all  persons  handling  any  product 

(3)  Refuse  receptacles  must  be  constructed  and  maintained  in  a manner  that 
protects  against  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions  and  the  adulteration  of 
product 


1-14 


B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.2(h),  the  CSI  should  assess  the 
dressing  rooms,  toilet  rooms,  and  urinal  rooms.  The  CSI  should  also  assess  the 
lavatories  in  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment.  While  in  these  areas 
verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like 
the  following: 

1.  Are  the  dressing  rooms,  toilet  rooms,  and  urinals  sufficient  in  number, 
ample  in  size,  conveniently  located,  and  maintained  In  a sanitary  condition  and  in 
good  repair? 

2.  Are  dressing  rooms,  toilet  rooms,  and  urinals  separate  from  the  rooms 
and  compartments  in  which  products  are  processed,  stored,  or  handled? 

3.  Are  there  lavatories  with  running  hot  and  cold  water,  soap,  and  towels 
placed  in  or  near  toilet  and  urinal  rooms  and  other  places  in  the  establishment  as 
necessary? 

4.  Are  refuse  receptacles  constructed  and  maintained  in  a sanitary  manner? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  Is  in  an  area  of  the  establishment  where  edible  product  is  being 
handled.  There  are  several  employees  working  In  this  rather  large  room.  The 
CSI  observes  that  there  is  only  one  lavatory  close  by.  The  CSI  thinks  that  there 
may  be  noncompliance  with  this  requirement  but  decides  to  evaluate  the 
situation  further  before  making  a compliance  determination.  The  CSI  observes 
that  the  employees  are  handling  product,  and  when  employees’  hands  are 
contaminated,  they  go  to  the  lavatory  and  wash  their  hands.  The  CSI  determines 
that  in  this  situation,  there  is  not  noncompliance.  If  the  employees  were  not 
washing  their  hands  because  the  lavatory  was  not  appropriately  located  in  this 
area,  there  would  be  noncompliance  with  this  provision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  IX  - Equipment  and  Utensils 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  equipment  and  utensils? 

Section  416.3  states:  (a)  Equipment  and  utensils  used  for  processing  or 
otherwise  handling  edible  product  or  ingredients  must  be  of  such  material  and 
construction  to  facilitate  thorough  cleaning  and  to  ensure  that  their  use  will  not 
cause  the  adulteration  of  product  during  processing,  handling,  or  storage. 


1-15 


Equipment  and  utensils  must  be  maintained  in  sanitary  condition  so  as  not  to  | ^ 

adulterate  product 

(b)  Equipment  or  utensils  must  not  be  constructed,  located,  or  operated  in  a 
manner  that  prevents  FSIS  inspection  program  employees  from  inspecting  the 
equipment  or  utensils  to  determine  whether  they  are  in  sanitary  condition. 

(c)  Receptacles  used  for  storing  inedible  material  must  be  of  such  material  and 
construction  that  their  use  will  not  result  in  the  adulteration  of  any  edible  product 
or  in  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions.  Such  receptacles  must  not  be  used  for 
storing  any  edible  product  and  must  bear  conspicuous  and  distinctive  marking  to 
identify  permitted  uses. 

B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.3,  the  CSI  should  assess  the 
equipment  and  utensils  in  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment.  While  in 
these  areas,  the  CSI  should  also  verify  that  the  receptacles  used  for  storing 
inedible  material  meet  the  regulatory  requirements.  While  in  these  areas 
verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like 
the  following: 

1 . Are  the  equipment  and  utensils  used  for  processing  and  otherwise  ^ ^ 

handling  edible  product  or  ingredients  of  material  and  construction  that  facilitates 

thorough  cleaning? 

2.  Are  equipment  or  utensils  constructed,  located,  or  operated  in  a manner 
that  prevents  inspection  program  personnel  from  inspecting  the  sanitary 
condition  of  the  equipment  or  utensils? 

3.  Are  receptacles  used  for  storing  inedible  material  constructed  of  materials 
that  can  be  maintained  in  a sanitary  manner? 

4.  Are  receptacles  used  for  storing  inedible  products  marked  conspicuously 
and  distinctively  to  identify  permitted  uses? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  observes  a closed  system  that  had  not  been  disassembled  for 
cleaning.  The  CSI  does  not  believe  that  there  is  noncompliance  with  this 
provision  but  decides  to  assess  the  situation  further  before  making  a compliance 
determination.  By  looking  into  the  matter,  he  or  she  determines  that  this  system 
is  cleaned-in-place,  and  that  there  are  inspection  openings  at  every  change  of  ^ 

direction  to  allow  for  verification  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  sanitation  procedures.  ( ^ 

The  CSI  inspects  the  system  through  the  openings  and  finds  that  the  closed 


1-16 


system  is  being  adequately  cleaned.  There  is  compliance  with  this  provision.  If 
the  closed  system  did  not  permit  inspection  or  was  creating  insanitary  conditions, 
there  would  be  noncompliance  with  this  provision.  The  CSI  should  keep  in  mind 
that  the  establishment  may  choose  to  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  416.3 
through  its  Sanitation  SOP  or  through  other  activities  it  conducts  to  comply  with 
the  SPS  regulations. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  In  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  X --  Sanitary  Operations 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  sanitary  operations? 

Section  416.4  states:  (a)  All  food-contact  surfaces,  including  food-contact 
surfaces  of  utensils  and  equipment,  must  be  cleaned  and  sanitized  as  frequently 
as  necessary  to  prevent  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions  and  the  adulteration 
of  product 

(b)  Non-food-contact  surfaces  of  facilities,  equipment,  and  utensils  used  in  the 
operation  of  the  establishment  must  be  cleaned  and  sanitized  as  frequently  as 
necessary  to  prevent  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions  and  the  adulteration  of 
product 

(c)  Cleaning  compounds,  sanitizing  agents,  processing  aids,  and  other  chemicals 
used  by  an  establishment  must  be  safe  and  effective  under  the  conditions  of  use. 
Such  chemicals  must  be  used,  handled,  and  stored  in  a manner  that  will  not 
adulterate  product  or  create  insanitary  conditions.  Documentation  substantiating 
the  safety  of  a chemical’s  use  in  a food-processing  environment  must  be 
available  to  FSIS  inspection  program  employees  for  review.  [In  most  cases  the 
documentation  will  be  “Material  Safety  Data  Sheets.”] 

(d)  Product  must  be  protected  from  adulteration  during  processing,  handling, 
storage,  loading,  and  unloading  at  and  during  transportation  from  official 
establishments. 

B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.4,  the  CSI  should  assess  how  the 
equipment  and  utensils  in  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment  are  cleaned 
and  handled.  The  CSI  should  assess  whether  products  are  protected  from 
adulteration  during  processing,  handling,  storage,  loading,  and  unloading,  and 
during  transportation.  The  CSI  should  also  assess  use,  handling,  and  storage  of 
cleaning  compounds,  sanitizing  agents,  processing  aids,  and  other  chemicals  in 
the  establishment.  The  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions  like  the 
following: 


1-17 


1.  Are  all  food-contact  surfaces  of  facilities,  equipment,  and  utensils  cleaned 
and  sanitized  as  frequently  as  necessary  to  prevent  insanitary  conditions  and  the 
adulteration  of  product? 

NOTE:  Many  establishments  will  comply  with  the  requirements  of  Section 
416.4(a)  through  Sanitation  SOP  activities. 

2.  Are  non-food  contact  surfaces  of  facilities,  equipment,  and  utensils  used  In 
the  operation  of  the  establishment  cleaned  and  sanitized  as  necessary  to  prevent 
the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions  and  the  adulteration  of  product? 

3.  Are  the  cleaning  compounds,  sanitizing  agents,  processing  aids,  and 
other  chemicals  used  by  the  establishment  safe  and  effective  under  the 
conditions  of  use? 

4.  Does  the  establishment  have  documentation  substantiating  the  safety  of  a 
chemical’s  use  in  a food  processing  environment? 

5.  Does  the  establishment  protect  product  from  adulteration  during 
processing,  handling,  storage,  loading  and  unloading,  and  transportation  from 
official  establishments? 

6.  If  the  establishment  uses  extended  clean-up  procedures,  are  these 
procedures  included  in  the  Sanitation  SOP? 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  observes  several  vats  of  meat  in  the  raw  product  storage  area  that 
are  not  covered.  There  are  several  other  vats  of  meat  stored  in  this  area  that  are 
covered.  The  CSI  thinks  that  there  might  be  noncompliance  with  this  provision 
but  decides  to  evaluate  the  situation  further  before  making  a compliance 
determination.  The  CSI  looks  at  the  overhead  in  the  area  and  does  not  observe 
any  conditions  that  would  constitute  insanitation  or  that  would  cause  product 
adulteration.  The  CSI  observes  an  employee  come  Into  the  area  and  take  a vat 
of  product  out  of  this  area.  The  CSI  follows  the  employee  to  determine  whether 
the  product  needs  to  be  protected  while  being  transferred  to  another  area.  The 
CSI  finds  no  conditions  that  would  require  the  product  to  be  covered  during 
transit.  Therefore,  the  CSI  determines  that  there  is  not  noncompliance  with  this 
provision.  If  the  CSI  had  observed  that  there  was  a condition  in  the 
establishment  that  could  adulterate  product  during  storage  or  handling,  there 
would  be  noncompliance  with  this  provision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


1-18 


PART  XI  --  Employee  Hygiene 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  related  to  employee  hygiene? 

Section  416.5  states:  (a)  Cleanliness.  All  persons  working  in  contact  with 
product,  food-contact  surfaces,  and  product-packaging  materials  must  adhere  to 
hygienic  practices  while  on  duty  to  prevent  adulteration  of  product  and  the 
creation  of  insanitary  conditions. 

(b)  Clothing.  Aprons,  frocks,  and  other  outer  clothing  worn  by  persons  who 
handle  product  must  be  of  material  that  is  disposable  or  readily  cleaned.  Clean 
garments  must  be  worn  at  the  start  of  each  working  day  and  garments  must  be 
changed  during  the  day  as  often  as  necessary  to  prevent  adulteration  of  product 
and  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions. 

(c)  Disease  control.  Any  person  who  has  or  appears  to  have  an  infectious 
disease,  open  lesion,  including  boils,  sores,  or  infected  wounds,  or  any  other 
abnormal  source  of  microbial  contamination,  must  be  excluded  from  any 
operations  which  could  result  in  product  adulteration  and  the  creation  of 
insanitary  conditions  until  the  condition  is  corrected. 

B.  How  are  CSIs  to  go  about  verifying  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.5,  the  CSI  should  assess 
employee  hygiene  in  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment.  While  in  these 
areas  verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  needs  to  seek  answers  to  questions 
like  the  following: 

1 . Are  the  persons  in  contact  with  product,  food-contact  surfaces,  and 
product-packaging  materials  adhering  to  hygienic  practices? 

2.  Are  aprons,  frocks,  and  other  outer  clothing  worn  by  persons  who  handle 
product  made  of  material  that  is  disposable  or  readily  cleaned? 

3.  Are  clean  garments  worn  at  the  start  of  the  day  and  changed  during  the 
day  as  often  as  necessary? 

4.  Are  persons  who  appear  to  have  an  infectious  disease,  open  lesion, 
including  boils,  sores,  or  Infected  wounds,  or  any  other  abnormal  source  of 
microbial  contamination  excluded  from  any  operations  that  could  result  in  product 
adulteration  and  the  creation  of  insanitary  conditions? 

NOTE:  The  regulations  pertaining  to  employee  hygiene  also  apply  to  FSIS 
personnel.  As  representatives  of  a public  health  agency,  it  Is  imperative  that 
Inspection  program  personnel  lead  through  example  and  follow  all  provisions  in  9 


1-19 


CFR  41 6.3  and  41 6.5  during  the  performance  of  their  official  duties  within 
federally  inspected  meat  and  poultry  product  establishments.  Inspection  program 
personnel  must  adhere  to  establishments’  special  requirements  as  well.  In  this 
manner,  FSIS  can  aid  in  maintaining  the  sanitary  conditions  inside  the  facilities  to 
which  FSIS  personnel  are  assigned.  These  regulations  do  not  require 
establishment  employees  to  wear  frocks  or  smocks,  but  require  outer  clothing  to 
be  of  material  that  is  disposable  or  readily  cleanable.  If  inspection  program 
personnel  have  questions  about  an  employee  having  an  infectious  disease,  he  or 
she  should  discuss  this  with  plant  management.  Inspection  program  personnel 
are  not  trained  to  diagnose  infectious  diseases.  If  the  establishment  has 
requirements  that  are  more  stringent  than  the  SPS  requirements,  inspection 
program  personnel  are  expected  to  follow  those  requirements. 

C.  Example  of  decisionmaking  in  judging  whether  there  is  compliance 
with  this  provision. 

The  CSI  observes  an  employee  preparing  to  start  to  work  in  the  raw  product 
area.  The  employee  puts  on  an  apron.  The  CSI  observes  that  the  apron  is  dirty 
from  the  previous  day’s  production.  The  CSI  thinks  that  there  is  noncompliance 
with  this  provision  but  decides  to  evaluate  this  situation  further  before  making  a 
compliance  determination.  He  observes  the  employee  go  to  the  washroom  and 
clean  the  apron  thoroughly  before  starting  to  work.  The  CSI  determines  that 
there  is  not  noncompliance  with  this  provision.  If  the  employee  does  not  clean 
the  apron  appropriately  before  going  to  work,  there  would  be  noncompliance  with 
this  provision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  XII  - Sanitation  SOPs 

A.  What  are  the  written  Sanitation  SOP  Procedures? 

The  establishment  has  the  responsibility  to  develop,  implement,  and  maintain 
written  Sanitation  SOPs.  The  basic  regulatory  requirements  are  described  in  9 
CFR  416.12.  At  the  time  inspection  is  granted,  the  establishment  must  have  a 
Sanitation  SOP  that  meets  these  requirements.  The  CSI  performs  the  01 A01 
procedure  to  verify  that  the  written  procedures  meet  the  basic  regulatory 
requirements.  The  CSI  determines  when  it  is  necessary  to  perform  the  01 A01 
procedure.  There  are  four  Sanitation  SOP  regulatory  requirements.  The  four 
requirements  are:  implementation  and  monitoring,  maintenance,  recordkeeping, 
and  corrective  action.  If  the  CSI  determines  that  the  Sanitation  SOP  does  not 
meet  the  regulatory  requirements  specified  in  9 CFR  416.12,  he  or  she  should 
contact  the  DO  for  direction.  The  DO  will  provide  direction  as  to  whether  the  CSI 
should  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter,  or  whether  the  DO  will  institute  an 
enforcement  action  specified  in  the  Rules  of  Practice,  9 CFR  part  500. 


1-20 


PART  XIII  - Inspection  Procedures 

A.  What  are  the  inspection  procedures  for  the  Sanitation  SOPs? 

There  are  two  Sanitation  SOP  procedures  for  pre-operational  sanitation 
verification  (01B01/01B02)  and  two  Sanitation  SOP  procedures  for  operational 
sanitation  verification  (01 001/01 002).  The  OSI  performs  these  procedures  to 
verify  that  the  establishment  is  meeting  the  Sanitation  SOP  regulatory 
requirements.  Those  requirements  are: 

1.  Implementation  and  monitoring  of  Sanitation  SOP  (416.13); 

2.  Maintenance  of  Sanitation  SOP  (ensuring  its  effectiveness)  (416.14); 

3.  Sanitation  SOP  corrective  actions  (416.15);  and 

4.  Sanitation  SOP  recordkeeping  (416.16) 

B.  How  do  CSIs  conduct  the  01B01  procedures? 

The  01B01  Sanitation  SOP  procedure  is  the  pre-operational  recordkeeping 
procedure.  This  recordkeeping  procedure  instructs  the  CSI  to  verify  the  daily 
documentation  of  the  establishment’s  implementation  and  monitoring  of  the 
Sanitation  SOP  procedures  and  required  corrective  actions. 

When  the  CSI  performs  the  01B01  procedure,  he  or  she  should  review  the 
Sanitation  SOP  and  the  establishment’s  pre-operational  Sanitation  SOP  records 
to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements  for  pre- 
operational  sanitation. 

The  CSI  should  review  the  Sanitation  SOP  to  become  knowledgeable  about 
the  procedures  in  it.  The  CSI  should  review  the  daily  pre-operational  Sanitation 
SOP  records  to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  following  the  pre-operational 
procedures,  that  the  monitoring  activities  are  conducted  at  the  specified 
frequency,  that  the  corrective  action  requirements  are  met,  and  that  records  are 
being  authenticated  by  the  establishment  employee  responsible  for 
implementation  and  monitoring  of  the  Sanitation  SOP.  This  is  a recordkeeping 
procedure  and  the  CSI  should  be  reviewing  pre-operational  records  only  to 
determine  if  the  establishment  Is  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements. 

C.  How  do  CSIs  conduct  the  01C01  procedures? 

When  the  CSI  performs  the  01 C01  procedure,  he  or  she  should  review  the 
establishment’s  operational  sanitation  records  to  verify  that  the  regulatory 
requirements  for  operational  sanitation  are  met. 


1-21 


The  CSI  should  review  the  Sanitation  SOP  to  become  knowledgeable  with  the 
procedures  in  it.  The  CSI  should  review  the  Sanitation  SOP  operational  records 
to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  following  the  operational  procedures  in  the 
Sanitation  SOP,  that  the  monitoring  activities  are  conducted  at  the  specified 
frequency,  that  the  corrective  action  requirements  are  met,  and  that  records  are 
being  authenticated  by  the  establishment  employee  responsible  for 
implementation  and  monitoring  of  the  Sanitation  SOP. 

D.  What  are  CSIs  to  do  when  performing  the  01B02  procedure? 

The  01B02  Sanitation  SOP  procedure  is  a review  and  observation  procedure 
for  verifying  pre-operational  sanitation.  When  performing  the  review  and 
observation  procedure,  the  CSI  will  verify  all  four  requirements:  implementation 
and  monitoring,  maintenance,  corrective  actions,  and  recordkeeping. 

The  CSI  should  review  the  Sanitation  SOP  to  ensure  that  he  or  she  is 
knowledgeable  about  the  current  written  procedures. 

NOTE:  The  CSI  needs  to  understand  the  procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOP  that 
the  establishment  is  implementing  to  prevent  direct  contamination  or  other 
adulteration  of  product.  The  CSI  should  become  familiar  with  any  monitoring 
procedures  and  frequencies  that  may  be  included  in  the  Sanitation  SOP.  Without 
this  knowledge  the  CSI  will  not  be  able  to  verify  regulatory  compliance. 

If  the  CSI  is  to  perform  the  01B02  procedure  and  has  reviewed  the  Sanitation 
SOP,  he  or  she  should  verify  the  pre-operational  sanitation  requirements  by 
inspecting  direct  contact  surfaces  in  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment, 
observing  the  establishment  perform  the  monitoring  procedures,  and  comparing 
his  or  her  findings  with  what  the  establishment  has  documented. 

NOTE:  When  the  CSI  is  performing  the  01B02  procedure,  he  or  she  should 
inspect  direct  contact  surfaces  and  observe  the  establishment  conduct  its 
monitoring  procedures  when  possible. 

4.  It  is  possible  that  the  CSI  might  be  performing  his  or  her  review  and 
observation  procedure  at  the  same  time  the  establishment  is  monitoring  their  pre- 
operational  procedures.  This  provides  an  excellent  opportunity  for  the  CSI  to 
perform  the  observation  part  of  this  procedure.  In  some  cases,  the  establishment 
might  conduct  its  monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  the  Sanitation  SOP 
procedures  before  inspection  program  personnel  arrive  at  the  establishment.  In 
these  situations,  the  CSI  should  seek  direction  from  supervisory  personnel  as  to 
how  frequently  he  or  she  should  directly  observe  the  establishment  conduct 
monitoring. 

NOTE:  The  supervisor  should  consider  several  factors  when  making  this 
decision:  1)  establishment  compliance  history,  2)  documentation  in  the  FSIS  file, 
and  3)  information  from  Sanitation  SOP  records. 


1-22 


E.  What  are  CSIs  to  do  when  performing  the  01C02  procedures? 

The  CSI  should  perform  the  01C02  procedure  the  same  way  as  he  or  she 
conducts  the  01B02,  except  this  procedure  is  conducted  during  operations. 
Again,  the  CSI  should  review  the  Sanitation  SOP  to  become  familiar  with  all  the 
procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOP. 

The  CSI  should  verify  that  the  establishment  is  meeting  the  Sanitation  SOP 
regulatory  requirements  for  operational  sanitation  by: 

1 . inspecting  one  or  more  areas  of  the  establishment  to  ensure  procedures 
are  effective  In  preventing  direct  contamination  or  other  adulteration  of  product, 

2.  observing  the  establishment  perform  the  monitoring  procedures,  and 

3.  comparing  the  findings  to  what  the  establishment  has  documented. 

It  might  be  difficult  for  the  CSI  to  observe  the  establishment  conducting  its 
monitoring  because  9 CFR  416.13  requires  that  the  establishment  monitor  the 
procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOP  daily.  The  CSI  might  not  be  available  to 
observe  that  activity  when  it  Is  occurring. 

PART  XiV  - implementation  and  Monitoring 

A.  What  is  the  implementation  and  monitoring  regulation? 

Section  416.13  states:  Each  official  establishment  shall  conduct  the  pre- 
operatlonal  procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOPs  before  the  start  of  operations. 

(a)  Each  official  establishment  shall  conduct  all  other  procedures  in  the 
Sanitation  SOPs  at  the  frequencies  specified. 

(b)  Each  official  establishment  shall  monitor  daily  the  implementation  of  the 
procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOPs. 

B.  What  are  some  questions  the  CSI  should  consider  when  performing 
verification  activities  for  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.13,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers 
to  the  following  type  of  questions: 

1.  Is  the  establishment  Implementing  the  pre-operational  procedures  in  the 
Sanitation  SOP  prior  to  the  start  of  operations? 

2.  Are  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product  or  unclean  direct 
product  contact  surfaces  observed  by  FSIS  or  the  establishment? 


1-23 


3.  Is  the  establishment  conducting  the  procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOP  as 
specified? 

4.  Does  the  Sanitation  SOP  contain  monitoring  frequencies? 

5.  If  the  Sanitation  SOP  does  not  contain  monitoring  frequencies,  is  the 
establishment  monitoring  the  implementation  of  the  procedures  in  the  Sanitation 
SOP  daily? 

NOTE:  If  environmental  sampling  is  included  in  the  Sanitation  SOP,  the  CSI 
should  verify  that  the  establishment  is  following  those  procedures.  The  CSI 
should  observe  the  establishment  collecting  samples,  should  review  sample 
results,  and  verify  that  the  corrective  actions  specified  in  the  Sanitation  SOP  for 
results  that  do  not  meet  the  criteria  of  the  procedures  are  taken  when  necessary. 
This  verification  should  be  completed  as  part  of  the  Sanitation  SOP  verification 
procedures. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  XV  --  Maintenance 

A.  What  is  the  maintenance  regulation? 

Section  416.14  states:  Each  official  establishment  shall  routinely  evaluate  the 
effectiveness  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs  and  the  procedures  therein  in  preventing 
direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product(s)  and  shall  revise  both  as 
necessary  to  keep  them  effective  and  current  with  respect  to  changes  in  facilities, 
equipment,  utensils,  operations,  or  personnel. 

B.  What  are  some  questions  the  CSI  should  consider  when  performing 
verification  activities  for  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.14,  the  CSI  will  seek  answers  to 
questions  of  the  following  type: 

1 . Has  the  establishment  routinely  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Sanitation  SOPs  in  preventing  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product? 

Is  the  establishment  doing  environmental  testing  or  taking  other  steps  to  assess 
whether  its  Sanitation  SOPs  are  effective? 

2.  If  changes  were  made  in  facilities,  equipment,  utensils,  operations,  or 
personnel,  have  the  Sanitation  SOPs  been  revised  to  keep  them  effective? 

NOTE:  Construction  and  removal  of  walls,  ceilings,  and  floors  may  cause 
harborage  sites  for  L monocytogenes  to  be  dislodged  from  otherwise  protected 
areas.  The  CSI  should  ask  whether  the  establishment  has  stepped  up  its  on- 


1-24 


going  verification  activity  to  ensure  that  the  current  Sanitation  SOP  or  other 
procedures  are  adequate  to  find  insanitary  conditions. 

3.  Does  the  establishment  routinely  review  the  Sanitation  SOP  records  to 
determine  if  there  are  trends  occurring  showing  the  Sanitation  SOP  needs 
revising? 

C.  What  is  an  example  of  noncompliance? 

• Changes  were  made  in  the  facilities,  equipment  utensils,  operations,  or 
personnel,  and  the  Sanitation  SOP  is  no  longer  effective  in  preventing 
direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  XVI  - Corrective  Actions 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  on  corrective  actions? 

Section  416.15  states:  (a)  Each  official  establishment  shall  take  appropriate 
corrective  action(s)  when  either  the  establishment  or  FSIS  determines  that  the 
establishment's  Sanitation  SOPs  or  the  procedures  specified  therein,  or  the 
implementation  or  maintenance  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs,  may  have  failed  to 
prevent  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product(s). 

(b)  Corrective  actions  include  procedures  to  ensure  appropriate  disposition  of 
product(s)  that  may  be  contaminated,  restore  sanitary  conditions,  and  prevent 
the  recurrence  of  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  prod  uct(s),  including 
appropriate  reevaluation  and  modification  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs  and  the 
procedures  specified  therein  or  appropriate  improvements  in  the  execution  of  the 
Sanitation  SOPs  or  the  procedures  specified  therein. 

B.  What  are  some  questions  the  CSI  should  consider  when  performing 
verification  activities  for  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.15,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers 
to  the  following: 

1 . If  there  is  direct  contamination  or  other  adulteration  of  product,  does  the 
establishment  implement  corrective  actions  that  restore  sanitary  conditions, 
prevent  recurrence,  and  make  appropriate  disposition  decisions  regarding  any 
product  that  may  be  contaminated? 

2.  Do  the  corrective  actions  include  the  reevaluation  and  modification  of  the 
Sanitation  SOPs  or  improvements  in  the  execution  of  the  procedures  when 
necessary? 


1-25 


NOTE:  If  the  establishment  is  monitoring  the  pre-operational  sanitation 
procedures,  finding  noncompliance,  taking  the  corrective  actions  required  in  9 
CFR  416.15,  and  the  CSI  is  not  finding  direct  contact  surfaces  that  may  cause 
adulterated  or  contaminated  product,  the  CSI  should  focus  on  whether  the  overall 
implementation  of  the  Sanitation  SOP  is  effective  in  preventing  direct 
contamination  or  other  adulteration  of  product.  The  CSI  should  not  focus  on  the 
fact  that  the  preventive  measures  being  used  are  the  same  as  previous 
preventive  measures  used  by  the  establishment.  When  the  CSI  finds  direct 
contact  surfaces  unclean  or  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product,  he  or 
she  should  take  a regulatory  control  action.  That  regulatory  control  action  should 
not  be  relinquished  until  the  establishment  has  proposed  an  acceptable 
preventive  measure.  There  is  no  noncompliance  if  the  establishment  finds  such 
conditions  and  takes  the  appropriate  corrective  actions.  These  corrective  actions 
include  restoring  sanitary  conditions,  making  appropriate  disposition  of  product, 
and  implementing  measures  to  prevent  recurrence.  This  thought  process  would 
not  pertain  to  situations  in  which  product  became  contaminated.  Since  the 
Sanitation  SOP  must  contain  procedures  to  prevent  direct  contamination  or 
adulteration  of  product,  FSIS  would  expect  the  establishment  to  have  procedures 
in  place  to  prevent  the  contamination  of  product. 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  Sanitation  SOP  failed  to  prevent  direct  contamination  or  other 
adulteration  of  product,  and  the  establishment  did  not  Implement 
corrective  actions  to  ensure  appropriate  disposition  of  product. 

• The  Sanitation  SOP  failed  to  prevent  direct  contamination  or  other 
adulteration  of  product,  and  the  establishment  did  not  implement 
corrective  actions  to  restore  sanitary  conditions. 

• The  Sanitation  SOP  failed  to  prevent  direct  contamination  or  other 
adulteration  of  product,  and  the  establishment  did  not  implement 
corrective  actions  to  prevent  recurrence  of  direct  contamination  or 
adulteration  of  product.  This  may  lead  to  a trend  of  repeated 
noncompliances. 

CSIs  will  document  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter  IV 
of  this  document. 

PART  XVII  - Recordkeeping 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  on  recordkeeping? 

Section  416.16  states:  (a)  Each  official  establishment  shall  maintain  daily  records 
sufficient  to  document  the  Implementation  and  monitoring  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs 


1-26 


and  any  corrective  actions  taken.  The  establishment  employee(s)  specified  in 
the  Sanitation  SOPs  as  being  responsible  for  the  implementation  and  monitoring 
of  the  procedure(s)  specified  in  the  Sanitation  SOPs  shall  authenticate  these 
records  with  his  or  her  initials  and  the  date. 

(b)  Records  required  by  this  part  may  be  maintained  on  computers  provided  the 
establishment  implements  appropriate  controls  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the 
electronic  data. 

(c)  Records  required  by  this  part  shall  be  maintained  for  at  least  6 months  and 
made  accessible  available  to  FSIS.  All  such  records  shall  be  maintained  at  the 
official  establishment  for  48  hours  following  completion,  after  which  they  may  be 
maintained  off-site  provided  such  records  can  be  made  available  to  FSIS  within 
24  hours  of  request. 

B.  What  are  some  questions  the  CSI  should  consider  when  performing 
verification  activities  for  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  416.16,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers 
to  the  following  type  of  questions: 

1 . Is  the  establishment  maintaining  daily  records  sufficient  to  document  the 
implementation  and  monitoring  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs  and  any  corrective 
actions  taken? 

2.  Is  an  establishment  employee  responsible  for  the  implementation  and 
monitoring  of  the  procedures  in  the  Sanitation  SOPs  and  authenticating  the 
records  with  his  or  her  initials  and  date? 

3.  If  records  are  being  maintained  on  computers,  are  there  controls  to 
ensure  the  integrity  of  the  electronic  data? 

4.  Are  Sanitation  SOP  records  being  maintained  for  at  least  6 months  and 
available  to  FSIS? 

5.  Are  Sanitation  SOP  records  kept  off-site  48  hours  after  completion?  If 
so,  are  they  available  to  FSIS  within  24  hours  of  request? 

6.  Do  the  Sanitation  SOP  records  accurately  reflect  the  sanitary  conditions 
of  the  establishment? 

7.  Are  the  Sanitation  SOP  records  available  for  FSIS  at  the  start  of  the 
same  shift  the  following  day? 

CSIs  will  document  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter  IV 
of  this  document. 


1-27 


CSOs 


PART  I --  Sanitation  Performance  Standards 

There  are  no  written  procedures  required  for  meeting  the  SPS,  therefore 
CSOs  do  not  focus  on  these  regulatory  requirements  directly.  For  example,  if  an 
establishment  is  consistently  failing  the  Salmonella  performance  standards,  the 
CSO  might  be  asked  to  conduct  an  assessment  of  the  establishment’s  food 
safety  systems,  including  whether  the  establishment  is  complying  with  the  SPS. 

In  performing  this  assessment,  the  CSO  should  be  aware  of  any  problems  in 
complying  with  the  SPS  that  could  be  having  an  impact  on  food  safety.  For 
example,  if  the  CSO  found  that  the  employee  hygiene  and  product  handling 
practices  were  not  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements,  this  failure  could  be 
having  a direct  impact  on  an  establishment’s  ability  to  meet  the  Salmonella 
performance  standards.  The  CSO  will  document  all  findings  in  the 
Comprehensive  Assessment  of  the  Execution  and  Design  of  an  Establishment’s 
Food  Safety  Systems,  described  in  Chapter  IV  of  this  document. 

PART  II  --  Review  of  Sanitation  SOPs 

A.  What  are  the  CSO  responsibilities? 

The  CSO  systemically  looks  at  the  Sanitation  SOPs.  The  CSO  will  focus  on 
the  design  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs.  The  CSO  should  review  the  Sanitation  SOP 
and  at  least  60  days’  pre-operational  and  operational  sanitation  records  and  try  to 
answer  questions  similar  to  the  following: 

1 . Are  the  Sanitation  SOPs  designed  to  include  all  procedures  necessary  to 
prevent  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product? 

2.  If  the  establishment  Is  doing  microbiological  testing  as  part  of  the 
Sanitation  SOP,  is  the  design  of  the  procedure  appropriate  for  the  organism? 

3.  If  the  establishment  has  an  extended  cleanup  written  in  the  Sanitation 
SOP,  does  the  design  of  the  procedure  support  extended  cleanup? 

4.  If  the  establishment  does  microbiological  testing  to  verify  the  extended 
cleanup  procedure,  are  the  testing  procedures  designed  to  find  the  organisms  of 
concern? 

5.  If  the  establishment  produces  RTE  products,  are  the  Sanitation 
SOPs  designed  in  a manner  to  prevent  cross-contamination  from  raw  to  RTE 
products? 

6.  If  the  establishment  produces  RTE  products  and  includes 
environmental  testing  in  the  Sanitation  SOPs,  are  the  procedures  designed  to 


1-28 


increase  testing  when  significant  construction  occurs? 

7.  If  there  is  construction  going  on  in  the  establishment,  have  the  Sanitation 
SOPs  been  designed  to  identify  problems  that  may  emerge  as  a result  of  the 
construction,  (sanitary  conditions,  product  contamination)? 

8.  If  environmental  testing  is  included  as  part  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs,  are 
the  corrective  actions  designed  to  meet  the  corrective  action  requirements  of 
section  416.15? 

9.  If  the  establishment  produces  RTE  products,  are  the  Sanitation 
SOPs  designed  to  prevent  post  lethality  contamination  from  personal  hygiene, 
product  handling  practices,  equipment  maintenance,  etc.? 

B.  What  do  CSOs  do  after  the  assessment? 

When  the  assessment  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs  and  a minimum  of  60  days  of 
associated  records  Is  complete,  the  CSO  is  to  document  a supportable  Agency 
position. 


1-29 


0 


H ■ 


l\ 


,1  , 


'■■ vSips 

*^(  •'»' •((f'c  t ' • H'  OlQ  iSi^fin^^ 

■ *■  W"  ■»  ^ 

■ 

:o>1i^  ’i  c 


J. 


M%t  ^r 


:•  - > , ^o.'»’  ■»  j2Vq‘/fv"'V0"iq  t 

'-.  . ' :*'r  r«  . t;'.S'  -Oj‘JL''^*  ,'B^‘;^“i,• 

■ n ' 

-'  ••  I '^Ii  - V - , , 1H5  -jt,  0OQ-.  . . ^ ^ 

n.;  •.  * j.r  • ...  . * . :•  ~^^‘?:-r.  i-t  n'-  \ 

^ I •).  i ■ ’ ' \-^i  'JL-^  . 


%!■ 


S-'uHli  ■■ 


L»  * 


.* » 


m 


CHAPTER  II  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 
HACCP 


Topic  Page 

Introduction  11-1-2 

CSIs  II-3-27 

Part  I Verification  Methodology  II-3-4 

HACCP  01  Procedure  11-4 

HACCP  02  Procedure  11-4 

Part  II  Verification  of  Hazard  Analysis  11-5-6 

Part  III  Verification  of  Monitoring  11-6-8 

Part  IV  Verification  of  Verification  11-8-1 0 

Part  V Verification  of  Recordkeeping  11-10-19 

Part  VI  Verification  of  Corrective  Actions  1 1-1 9-24 

Part  VII  Reassessment  Requirement  11-24-27 

CSOs  11-28-36 

Part  I HACCP  Assessment  11-28 

Part  II  Review  of  Hazard  Analysis  11-28-31 

Part  III  Assessment  of  Monitoring  11-31-32 

Part  IV  Assessment  of  Verification  11-32-33 

Part  V Assessment  of  Recordkeeping  11-33-34 

Part  VI  Assessment  of  Corrective  Actions  11-34 

Part  VII  Reassessment  11-34-36 


JTi  AT  ' 3XqAH0 

< 


r, 


DA]i 


>■  )Ari 


o 


» 


-hC-I’  i 

L' 


CHAPTER  II  - HACCP 


I.  Introduction 

The  establishment  has  the  responsibility  for  complying  with  9 CFR  Part  417  of 
FSIS  HACCP  regulations.  9 CFR  417.2(b)  requires  that  every  official 
establishment  develop  and  implement  a HACCP  plan  covering  each  product 
produced  by  that  establishment  when  the  establishment’s  hazard  analysis 
reveals  that  one  or  more  food  safety  hazards  are  reasonably  likely  to  occur  in  the 
process  of  producing  the  product. 

FSIS  has  the  responsibility  for  verifying  that  establishments  meet  the 
requirements  in  9 CFR  Part  417.  9 CFR  417.8  describes  the  FSIS  verification 
functions  that  are  performed  to  provide  a basis  for  making  determinations  as  to 
whether  the  establishment  is  in  compliance. 

CSIs  focus  on  the  execution  or  implementation  of  the  HACCP  plan  when 
performing  their  verification  procedures.  The  CSOs  focus  more  on  the  design  of 
the  HACCP  plans  when  they  are  conducting  an  assessment  of  the  HACCP 
system.  The  purpose  of  this  section  is  to  set  out  how  each  component  verifies 
that  establishments  are  complying  with  Part  417. 

In  assessing  the  adequacy  of  an  establishment’s  HACCP  system,  inspection 
program  personnel  should  consider  all  of  the  available  evidence. 

Inspection  program  personnel  should  evaluate  their  observations  and  the 
results  of  the  microbiological  sampling  that  they  do  in  an  integrated  way.  Has  the 
inspector  observed  a laxness  in  the  establishment’s  attention  to  evisceration  and 
its  application  of  its  antimicrobial  interventions  that  is  reflected  in  a higher  number 
of  positives  in  the  Agency’s  Salmonella  sampling?  Has  the  inspector  observed  a 
commitment  to  food  safety  that  produces  good  results? 

Moreover,  establishments  may  do  their  own  environmental  testing,  testing  for 
APCs  or  enterobacteriaceae,  or  other  verification  testing.  Inspection  program 
personnel  should  ask  establishment  management  whether  it  does  its  own  testing, 
and  whether  it  would  share  the  test  results.  The  inspector  should  make  clear  that 
it  is  in  the  establishment’s  interest  to  be  doing  and  sharing  such  testing. 

For  example,  an  establishment  that  makes  RTE  product  decides  to  undertake 
some  in-plant  construction.  Because  construction  increases  the  risk  of  L 
monocytogenes  contamination  of  product,  the  establishment  decides  to  treat  this 
pathogen  as  a hazard  that  is  reasonably  likely  to  occur,  at  least  during  the 
construction  period.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  seek  answers  to 
questions  similar  to  the  following  to  determine  whether  the  establishment’s 
HACCP  system  is  producing  safe  product. 


1 . What  preventive  measures  were  put  in  place  during  the  construction  to 
prevent  product  or  product  contact  surface  contamination? 

2.  Is  the  plant  doing  environmental  testing  during  the  construction  project? 

If  so,  do  the  results  indicate  any  significant  micro  flora  changes  during  the 
construction  project? 

3.  Did  the  establishment  implement  any  additional  sanitation  procedures 
during  the  construction  project? 

4.  Did  the  establishment  do  any  testing  to  determine  the  effectiveness  of  the 
special  sanitation  procedures? 

If  inspection  program  personnel  determine  that  product  samples  should  be 
taken  during  this  period,  they  should  contact  the  Front-line  Supervisor.  If  the 
plant  is  doing  such  testing  and  makes  the  results  available  to  inspection  program 
personnel.  It  may  not  be  necessary  for  FSIS  to  intensify  its  testing.  Inspection 
program  personnel  should  analyze  the  results  of  any  testing  that  has  been  done 
for  evidence  of  an  emerging  problem  with  L monocytogenes  or  with  an  Indicator 
organism  that  would  suggest  an  emerging  L monocytogenes  problem.  If  the 
establishment  is  conducting  environmental  testing  and  is  not  willing  to  share  the 
results,  the  CSI  should  contact  the  Front-line  Supervisor. 

Each  situation  is  different,  and  inspection  program  personnel  must  use  critical 
thinking  in  deciding  whether  there  is  a basis  for  concern,  or  that  there  Is  a 
problem  with  the  establishment’s  HACCP  system  that  should  be  addressed.  If 
the  establishment  Is  not  complying  with  the  regulatory  requirements,  inspection 
program  personnel  should  issue  an  NR  or  consider  recommending  other  action 
under  the  Rules  of  Practice,  9 CFR  part  500  (see  Chapter  IV). 


II-2 


CSIs 

PART  I --  HACCP  Verification  Methodology 
A.  How  do  CSIs  perform  HACCP  verification  procedures? 

The  CSI  should  understand  the  regulations  in  9 CFR  part  417,  how  to  apply 
these  regulations  in  the  plant  environment,  and  the  appropriate  methodology  to 
use  In  verifying  compliance  with  these  regulations.  There  are  two  HACCP 
procedures,  an  01  procedure  and  an  02  procedure,  for  verifying  that  an 
establishment  Is  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  Part  417.  The 
number  of  HACCP  plans  and  the  number  of  products  produced  within  a specific 
processing  category  has  no  impact  on  the  number  of  HACCP  procedures  that 
CSIs  are  scheduled  to  perform  for  that  process. 

NOTE:  An  establishment  can  produce  many  products  within  the  same 
processing  category  with  one  HACCP  plan,  or  can  have  a separate  HACCP  plan 
for  each  product  within  that  processing  category.  In  either  case,  there  are  only 
two  HACCP  procedures  for  that  processing  category.  If  the  establishment  has  a 
separate  HACCP  plan  for  each  of  the  products  in  the  same  processing  category, 
the  CSI  needs  to  have  a method  of  verifying  that  the  regulatory  requirements  are 
met  in  all  of  the  HACCP  plans  at  some  frequency.  He  or  she  might  verify  one  of 
the  five  requirements  (monitoring,  verification,  corrective  action,  recordkeeping, 
and  reassessment)  in  all  of  the  HACCP  plans  for  a particular  processing  category 
each  time  the  HACCP  01  procedure  Is  performed.  Another  method  he  or  she 
might  use  is  to  choose  a different  HACCP  plan  each  time  that  procedure  is  to  be 
performed. 

There  are  two  components  to  each  of  the  HACCP  procedures,  a 
recordkeeping  component  and  a review  and  observation  component.  The  CSI 
can  use  either  of  these  components  or  a combination  of  these  components  to 
verify  regulatory  compliance. 

1 . The  CSI  might  review  the  establishment  records  to  verify  compliance 
(recordkeeping). 

2.  Alternatively  or  in  addition,  he  or  she  might  take  measurements  and 
compare  the  result  with  the  company  records  to  determine  regulatory  compliance 
(review).  He  or  she  might  also  observe  an  establishment  employee  perform  the 
activity  listed  in  the  HACCP  plan  to  verify  regulatory  compliance  (observation). 

The  CSI  may  use  any  of  these  components  or  parts.  Individually  or 
collectively,  to  verify  regulatory  compliance  with  the  HACCP  regulations.  For 
example,  the  CSI  can  review  records  at  one  CCP  and  take  a measurement  or 
observe  the  establishment  take  a measurement  at  another  CCP  to  verify  that  the 
monitoring  requirement  is  met. 


II-3 


If  the  CSI  questions  the  contents  of  the  HACCP  plan,  he  or  she  should  review 
the  hazard  analysis  and  the  decisionmaking  documents  supporting  the  hazard 
analysis  to  verify  that  the  establishment  can  support  the  contents  of  the  HACCP 
plan. 

HACCP  01  Procedure 

The  purpose  of  the  HACCP  01  procedure  is  to  determine  if  the  establishment 
meets  the  five  regulatory  requirements.  When  the  HACCP  01  procedure  is 
scheduled  it  is  used  for  reviewing  a random  sample  of  the  HACCP  regulatory 
requirements  in  operation. 

NOTE:  The  CSI  must  have  a method  for  randomly  selecting  the  requirements 
that  he  or  she  will  verify  during  the  performance  of  this  procedure.  After  this 
decision  is  made,  the  CSI  will  need  to  review  the  HACCP  plan  to  ensure  that  he 
or  she  has  full  knowledge  of  what  it  contains. 

HACCP  02  Procedure 

The  purpose  of  the  HACCP  02  procedure  is  to  determine  if  the  establishment 
meets  the  five  regulatory  requirements.  When  the  HACCP  02  procedure  is 
scheduled  It  Is  used  to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  following  the  HACCP  plan, 
establishment  personnel  are  performing  the  tasks  specified  in  the  HACCP  plan, 
corrective  actions  are  taken,  and  pre-shipment  review  prevents  the  shipment  of 
adulterated  product  for  specific  production. 

NOTE:  The  CSI  can  review  records,  conduct  a measurement,  and  observe  the 
establishment  conducting  the  activities  listed  In  the  HACCP  plan.  However,  the 
CSI  must  verify  that  all  the  applicable  requirements  at  all  of  the  CCPs  have  been 
met  for  a specific  production  when  performing  the  HACCP  02  procedure.  The 
CSI  can  verify  corrective  actions  if  there  has  been  a deviation  from  a critical  limit, 
a deviation  not  covered  by  a specified  corrective  action,  or  an  unforeseen 
hazard. 

When  the  CSI  determines  that  the  establishment  does  not  meet  one  or  more 
of  the  regulatory  requirements,  he  or  she  should  document  this  finding  on  an  NR. 
If  the  noncompliance  involves  the  production  and  shipment  of  unsafe  food,  the 
CSI  should  Initiate  the  appropriate  enforcement  actions  described  in  9 CFR 
500.3.  He  or  she  should  ask  the  DO  to  issue  an  NOIE  to  the  establishment.  If 
the  CSI  has  documented  multiple  or  recurring  noncompliances,  he  or  she  should 
contact  the  DO  and  request  that  an  NOIE  be  issued  to  the  establishment  as 
described  in  9 CFR  500.4.  In  other  situations  the  CSI  may  take  a regulatory 
control  action  to  prevent  the  shipment  of  adulterated  products.  The  CSI  should 
also  keep  the  Front-line  Supervisor  informed  of  developing  trends  of 
noncompliance,  (see  Chapter  IV). 


II-4 


PART  II  - Hazard  Analysis 

A.  How  do  CSIs  verify  that  an  establishment  has  performed  a hazard 
analysis? 

During  the  performance  of  the  03A01  procedure,  CSIs  verify  that  an 
establishment  has  performed  a hazard  analysis  as  part  of  its  basic  compliance 
with  the  regulations  (9  CFR  417.2(a)).  The  CSIs  should  use  the  thought  process 
and  methodology  described  below  when  verifying  that  the  hazard  analysis 
complies  with  the  regulation.  CSIs  will  verify  compliance  by  reviewing  the  flow 
chart,  the  hazard  analysis,  the  HACCP  plan,  the  establishment’s  initial  validation 
of  the  HACCP  plan,  and  HACCP  records. 

Before  reviewing  the  hazard  analysis,  the  CSIs  should  understand  that  a food 
safety  hazard  is  defined  in  9 CFR  417.1  as  any  biological,  chemical,  or  physical 
property  that  may  cause  a food  to  be  unsafe  for  human  consumption.  The  CSIs 
must  review  hazard  analysis  records  to  determine  whether  the  analysis 
considered  those  properties  that  have  a real  chance  of  occurring  in  the  food  or  in 
the  processing  of  the  food,  and  of  causing  the  food  to  be  unsafe.  The  hazard 
must  be  one  that  would  be  identified  by  a reasonable  consideration  of  the  food, 
how  it  is  processed,  and  where  safety  issues  can  arise.  The  fact  that  it  is  possible 
to  Imagine  a hazard  (e.g.,  a meteor  may  fall  onto  the  plant)  does  not  mean  that 
the  hazard  analysis  must  address  that  hazard.  If  the  CSI  has  concerns  about 
whether  the  relevant  hazards  have  been  considered,  he  or  she  may  decide  to 
discuss  issues  with  the  TSC  or  with  the  establishment  during  the  weekly  meeting. 
The  CSI  should  ask  whether  the  establishment  has  considered  and  addressed 
the  following  questions  by  comparing  the  hazard  analysis  to  the  Basic 
Compliance  Checklist  (FSIS  Form  5000-1): 

1 . Did  the  establishment  conduct  a hazard  analysis  or  have  one  conducted 
for  it? 

2.  Did  the  establishment’s  analysis  start  by  Identifying  all  hazards  that  may 
occur? 

3.  Does  the  hazard  analysis  identify  preventive  measures  the  establishment 
can  apply  to  the  food  safety  hazards? 

4.  Does  the  hazard  analysis  include  a flow  chart  that  describes  (diagrams) 
the  steps  of  each  process  and  production  flow  in  the  establishment? 

5.  Does  the  hazard  analysis  identify  the  Intended  use  or  the  consumers  of 
the  finished  product? 

6.  Does  the  result  of  the  establishment’s  hazard  analysis  reveal  that  one  or 
more  food  safety  hazards  are  reasonably  likely  to  occur? 


II-5 


7.  Does  the  establishment  have  a written  HACCP  plan  for  each  of  its 
products? 

8.  Has  the  establishment  conducted  validation  activities  to  determine 
whether  the  HACCP  plan  will  function  as  intended? 

NOTE:  Section  41 7.4  (a)(1 ) provides  more  details  about  the  requirement  for 
initial  validation,  "...  The  establishment  shall  conduct  activities  designed  to 
determine  that  the  HACCP  plan  is  functioning  as  intended.  During  this  HACCP 
plan  validation  period,  the  establishment  shall  repeatedly  test  the  adequacy  of 
the  CCPs,  critical  limits,  monitoring  and  recordkeeping  procedures,  and 
corrective  actions  set  forth  in  the  HACCP  plan."  Validation  data  for  any  HACCP 
plan  must  include  some  practical  data  or  information  reflecting  an  establishment's 
actual  experience  in  implementing  the  HACCP  plan.  This  is  necessary  because 
validation  must  demonstrate  not  only  that  the  HACCP  plan  is  theoretically  sound, 
but  also  that  the  establishment  can  implement  it  and  make  it  work  on  a day-by- 
day basis. 

9.  Do  the  establishment’s  records  include  multiple  results  that  verify  the 
monitoring  of  CCPs  and  conformance  with  critical  limits? 

10.  Does  the  establishment  have  subsequent  results  that  support  the 
adequacy  of  corrective  actions  in  achieving  control  at  a CCP  after  a deviation 
from  a critical  limit  has  occurred? 

B.  What  happens  if  the  CSI  determines  that  a noncompiiance  exists? 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  If  the  CSI  determines  that  the  hazard  analysis  does  not 
meet  the  regulatory  requirements,  he  or  she  should  notify  the  DO  for  direction. 
The  DO  will  provide  direction  to  the  CSI  as  to  whether  he  or  she  should  issue  a 
30-day  reassessment  letter,  or  the  DO  will  institute  an  enforcement  action  as 
specified  in  the  Rules  of  Practice,  9 CFR  part  500  (see  Chapter  IV). 

NOTE:  An  establishment  is  not  required  to  respond  in  writing  to  the  30-day 
reassessment  letter.  It  is,  however,  required  to  address  the  situation  raised  in 
the  letter. 

PART  III  - Monitoring  Requirement 
A.  What  is  the  regulation  that  applies  to  monitoring? 

9 CFR  417.2(c)(4)  - List  the  procedures,  and  the  frequency  with  which  those 
procedures  will  be  performed,  that  will  be  used  to  monitor  each  of  the  critical 
control  points  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  critical  limits 


11-6 


B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  the  monitoring  requirement? 

CSIs  verify  the  monitoring  requirement  by  performing  the  HACCP  01  or 
HACCP  02  procedures.  CSIs  should  use  the  thought  process  and  methodology 
described  below  when  performing  either  the  HACCP  01  or  HACCP  02  procedure. 
CSIs  will  verify  the  regulatory  requirement  by  reviewing  the  HACCP  plan, 
reviewing  HACCP  records,  observing  establishment  employees  performing 
monitoring  activities,  and  taking  measurements  at  the  CCPs.  In  verifying  the 
monitoring  requirement,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the  following  questions: 

1 . Does  the  HACCP  plan  list  the  monitoring  procedures  and  frequencies 
that  are  used  to  monitor  each  of  the  CCPs  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  critical 
limits? 

2.  Are  the  monitoring  procedures  being  performed  as  described  In  the 
HACCP  plan? 

3.  Are  the  monitoring  procedures  being  performed  at  the  frequencies  for  the 
CCPs  listed  In  the  HACCP  plan? 

When  seeking  answers  to  the  above  questions,  the  CSI  should: 

a.  Review  the  HACCP  plan  to  determine  whether  the  HACCP  plan  design 
includes  the  monitoring  procedures  and  frequencies  that  are  used  to  monitor  the 
critical  control  points.  Since  the  establishment  can  modify  the  HACCP  plan 
without  notifying  inspection  program  personnel,  the  CSI  should  ensure  that  he  or 
she  is  familiar  with  the  monitoring  procedures  and  frequencies  in  the  HACCP 
plan  by  reviewing  the  HACCP  plan  each  time  he  or  she  verifies  the  monitoring 
requirement.  When  reviewing  the  monitoring  procedures  and  frequencies  in  the 
HACCP  plan,  the  CSI  should  be  able  to  understand  exactly  what  the 
establishment  is  doing  at  the  CCP.  If  the  CSI  does  not  understand  how  the 
establishment  is  performing  the  monitoring  activity  at  the  CCP,  he  or  she  will 
need  to  determine  whether  this  Is  an  indication  that  the  monitoring  requirement  Is 
not  being  met. 

b.  Observe  an  establishment  employee  performing  the  monitoring  activities 
listed  In  the  plan  to  determine  whether  the  procedures  are  being  executed  as 
written  In  the  HACCP  plan. 

c.  Based  on  reviewing  the  monitoring  records  or  on  the  basis  of  observing 
the  establishment  performing  the  monitoring  procedures,  determine  whether  the 
monitoring  procedures  are  being  performed  at  the  frequencies  specified  in  the 
HACCP  plan. 


II-7 


C.  What  are  some  examples  of  monitoring  noncompiiance? 

• The  establishment  is  not  conducting  the  monitoring  procedures  as 
specified  in  the  HACCP  plan. 

• The  establishment  is  not  performing  the  monitoring  procedures  at  the 
frequencies  specified  in  the  HACCP  plan. 

• The  CSI  takes  a measurement  at  a CCP  and  finds  that  the  critical  limit  is 
not  met. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  IV  --  Verification  Requirement 

A.  What  are  the  regulations  that  apply  to  verification  procedures  and 
frequencies? 

9 CFR  417.2(c)(7)  - List  the  verification  procedures,  and  the  frequency  with 
which  those  procedures  wili  be  performed,  that  the  establishment  will  use  in 
accordance  with  §417.4  of  this  part. 

9 CFR  417.4(a)(2)(i)(ii)(iii)  - Ongoing  verification  activities  include,  but  are  not 
limited  to:  The  calibration  of  process-monitoring  instruments;  direct  observations 
of  monitoring  activities  and  corrective  actions;  and  the  review  of  records 
generated  and  maintained  in  accordance  with  § 417.5(a)(3)  of  this  part. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  the  verification  requirement? 

CSIs  verify  the  verification  requirement  by  performing  the  HACCP  01  or 
HACCP  02  procedures.  CSIs  should  use  the  thought  process  and  methodology 
described  below  when  performing  either  the  HACCP  01  or  HACCP  02  procedure. 
CSIs  will  verify  these  regulatory  requirements  by  reviewing  the  HACCP  plan, 
reviewing  HACCP  records,  and  observing  establishment  employees  performing 
verification  activities.  In  verifying  the  verification  requirement,  the  CSI  should 
seek  answers  to  the  following  questions: 

1 . Does  the  HACCP  plan  contain  procedures  and  frequencies  for  the 
calibration  of  the  process-monitoring  instruments? 

2.  Does  the  HACCP  plan  contain  procedures  and  frequencies  for  direct 
observations  of  monitoring  activities  and  corrective  actions? 

3.  Does  the  HACCP  plan  list  procedures  and  frequencies  for  the  review  of 
records  generated  and  maintained  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  417.5(a)(3)? 


II-8 


4.  Does  the  HACCP  plan  list  product  sampling  as  a verification  activity? 

5.  Are  process-monitoring  instrument  calibration  activities  conducted  as 
per  the  HACCP  plan? 

6.  Are  direct  observation  verification  activities  conducted  as  per  the  HACCP 
plan? 

7.  Are  records  generated  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  417.5(a)(3)  being 
reviewed  by  the  establishment? 

When  seeking  answers  to  the  above  questions,  the  CSI  should: 

a.  Review  the  HACCP  plan  to  determine  whether  it  lists  direct  observation 
procedures  and  frequencies,  records  review  procedures  and  frequencies,  and 
process  monitoring  calibration  verification  procedures  and  frequencies.  Since 
the  establishment  can  modify  the  HACCP  plan  without  notifying  inspection 
program  personnel,  the  CSI  should  ensure  that  he  or  she  is  familiar  with  the 
verification  procedures  and  frequencies  in  the  HACCP  plan  by  reviewing  the 
HACCP  plan  each  time  he  or  she  verifies  the  verification  requirement. 

b.  Observe  an  establishment  employee  performing  the  verification  activities 
listed  in  the  plan  to  determine  whether  the  procedures  are  being  executed  as 
written  in  the  HACCP  plan. 

c.  Review  the  HACCP  records  or  observe  the  establishment  performing  the 
verification  procedures  to  determine  whether  the  verification  procedures  are 
being  performed  at  the  frequencies  specified  in  the  HACCP  plan. 

d.  If  the  establishment  has  included  an  alternative  generic  E.  coli  sampling 
frequency  into  the  HACCP  plan  (see  9 CFR  310.25(a)(2)(iv)  or  381 .94(a)(2)(iv)), 
the  CSI  will  verify  that  the  alternative  is  an  integral  part  of  the  establishment’s 
verification  procedures  for  its  HACCP  plan. 

e.  If  product  sampling  is  included  in  the  HACCP  plan,  the  CSI  should 
observe  an  establishment  employee  taking  samples  and  review  the  results  as 
part  of  the  HACCP  01  or  02  procedures.  If  the  establishment  received  positive 
results,  the  CSI  should  verify  the  corrective  action  requirements  of  9 CFR 
417.3(b)  are  met. 

NOTE:  The  CSI  should  use  good  judgment  in  recognizing  that  there  are  times 
when  a HACCP  plan  might  not  contain  all  three  ongoing  verification  activities 
listed  in  9 CFR  417.4(a)(2)(i)(ii)(ili).  If  an  establishment  has  a CCP  that  is 
monitored  without  the  use  of  process  monitoring  equipment,  there  would  be  no 
need  for  process  monitoring  equipment  calibration  verification  procedures.  If  an 


II-9 


establishment  only  has  one  employee,  it  would  not  be  possible  for  that  person  to 
conduct  a direct  observation  of  the  monitoring  activity.  In  this  situation,  the 
HACCP  plan  would  not  need  to  list  a direct  observation  of  the  monitoring 
activities.  The  direct  observation  ongoing  verification  activity  should  be  designed 
for  the  plant  verifier  to  directly  observe  the  plant  employee  conducting  the 
monitoring  activity.  A plant  verifier  conducting  the  same  activity  as  the  monitor 
does  not  meet  the  regulatory  requirement  for  the  direct  observation  verification 
activity  described  in  9 CFR  417.4(a)(ii). 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  verification  noncompliance? 

• The  HACCP  plan  does  not,  at  a minimum,  list  records  review  verification 
procedures;  direct  observation  verification  procedures;  or  calibration  of 
process  instruments  verification  procedures. 

• The  HACCP  plan  does  not  list  the  frequencies  at  which  the  verification 
procedures  will  be  performed. 

• The  establishment  is  not  performing  the  direct  observation  verification 
procedures  as  specified  In  the  HACCP  plan. 

• The  establishment  Is  not  performing  the  records  review  verification 
procedures  as  specified  in  the  HACCP  plan. 

• The  establishment  Is  not  performing  the  process  monitoring  verification 
procedures  as  specified  in  the  HACCP  plan. 

• The  establishment  Is  not  performing  one  or  more  of  the  verification 
procedures  listed  in  the  HACCP  plan  at  the  frequencies  specified  in  the 
HACCP  plan. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  V --  Recordkeeping  Requirement 
A.  How  do  CSIs  verify  the  recordkeeping  requirements? 

The  CSI  verifies  that  the  establishment  is  meeting  the  recordkeeping 
requirements.  The  CSI  will  verify  these  requirements  by  reviewing  the  HACCP 
plan,  hazard  analysis,  HACCP  records,  supporting  documentation,  and 
decisionmaking  documents.  The  CSI  verifies  some  of  the  recordkeeping 
requirements  when  performing  the  HACCP  01  procedure.  For  example,  the  CSI 
uses  an  01  procedure  to  verify  that  the  establishment  has  supporting 
documentation  for  the  monitoring  procedures  in  the  HACCP  plan.  Other 
recordkeeping  requirements  are  verified  when  performing  the  HACCP  02 


II- 10 


procedure.  Preshipment  review  is  verified  by  performing  02  procedures.  The 
majority  of  the  time  the  CSI  will  verify  the  recordkeeping  requirement  by 
reviewing  only  records  (recordkeeping  component  of  the  HACCP  procedures). 

An  occasion  when  a CSI  may  use  the  review  and  observation  component  to 
verify  a recordkeeping  requirement  is  when  the  CSI  observes  the  establishment 
actually  performing  the  pre-shipment  review.  The  HACCP  procedures  that 
should  be  used  for  verification  of  the  recordkeeping  regulatory  requirements  will 
be  specified  throughout  this  section. 

B.  What  is  the  regulatory  requirement  for  recordkeeping? 

9 CFR  417.2(c)(6)  - Provide  fora  recordkeeping  system  that  documents  the 
monitoring  of  the  critical  control  points.  The  records  shall  contain  the  actual 
values  and  observations  obtained  during  monitoring. 

C.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.2(c)(6)? 

The  CSI  should  review  the  HACCP  plan  to  verify  that  it  lists  the  records  the 
establishment  will  use  to  document  the  monitoring  of  the  CCPs.  The  CSI  should 
review  the  HACCP  records  to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  recording  actual 
values  and  observations  that  were  obtained  during  the  monitoring  activities.  The 
CSI  should  verify  these  requirements  when  performing  the  HACCP  01  procedure 
and  HACCP  02  procedure.  In  verifying  this  requirement,  the  CSI  should  ask  the 
following  questions: 

1 . Does  the  HACCP  plan  set  out  a recordkeeping  system  that  documents 
the  monitoring  of  the  CCP? 

2.  Do  the  records  contain  actual  values  and  observations  obtained  during 
monitoring? 

D.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  HACCP  plan  does  not  provide  for  a recordkeeping  system  that 

documents  the  monitoring  of  the  CCPs. 

• The  establishment  is  recording  results  with  a check  mark,  rather  than 

recording  actual  values  and  observations. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 


II- 11 


E.  What  are  the  requirements  for  supporting  documentation? 

9 CFR  417.5(a)  - The  establishment  shall  maintain  the  following  records 
documenting  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan:  (1)The  written  hazard  analysis 
prescribed  in  § 417.2(a)  of  this  part,  including  all  supporting  documentation; 

(2)  - The  written  HACCP  plan,  including  decisionmaking  documents  associated 
with  the  selection  and  development  of  CCPs  and  critical  limits,  and  documents 
supporting  both  the  monitoring  and  verification  procedures  selected  and  the 
frequency  of  those  procedures. 

NOTE:  As  part  of  the  requirement  above,  establishments  will  have 
documentation  that  addresses  the  requirement  in  9 CFR  417.4(a)  that  "every 
establishment  shall  validate  the  HACCP  plan's  adequacy  In  controlling  the  food 
safety  hazards  identified  during  the  hazard  analysis."  The  CSI  should  determine 
whether  there  Is  compliance  with  this  regulation  by  verifying  that  the 
establishment  has  the  documentation  required  in  9 CFR  417.5(a)(2 

F.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  these  regulations? 

CSIs  should  verify  that  there  is  compliance  with  these  requirements  by 
performing  the  HACCP  01  procedure.  The  CSI  will  verify  these  requirements  by 
reviewing  the  hazard  analysis,  supporting  documents  for  the  hazard  analysis, 
HACCP  plan,  decisionmaking  documents  associated  with  the  selection  and 
development  of  the  CCPs  and  critical  limits,  supporting  documentation  for  the 
verification  procedures  and  frequencies,  and  supporting  documentation  for  the 
monitoring  procedures  and  frequencies.  The  CSI  should  use  professional 
judgment  on  how  much  supporting  documentation  to  request.  The  CSI  should 
not  just  arbitrarily  ask  for  supporting  documents.  The  CSI  should  request 
supporting  documents  when  he  or  she  questions  whether  a decision  made  by  the 
establishment  is  the  appropriate  one. 

There  are  three  possible  outcomes  for  the  verification  of  these  requirements. 
Those  three  outcomes  are  compliance  with  the  requirements,  noncompliance 
with  the  requirements,  and  an  inability  to  determine  whether  there  Is  compliance 
because  more  information  is  needed.  The  HACCP  01  procedure  is  documented 
as  performed  when  the  requirements  are  met.  The  CSI  Issues  an  NR  when  there 
is  noncompliance  with  the  requirements.  A 30-day  reassessment  letter  should 
be  issued  to  the  establishment  when  there  is  not  enough  information  available  to 
determine  whether  the  HACCP  plan  complies  with  9 CFR  417.2.  This  provides 
the  establishment  with  an  opportunity  to  support  the  decisions  made,  or  to 
reassess  the  hazard  analysis  and  HACCP  plan  and  make  decisions  that  it  can 
support. 


11-12 


In  verifying  these  recordkeeping  requirements,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers 
to  the  following  type  questions: 

1 . Does  the  establishment  have  the  supporting  documentation  for  the 
decisions  made  in  the  hazard  analysis? 

2.  Does  the  establishment  have  the  decisionmaking  documents  associated 
with  the  selection  of  each  CCP? 

3.  Do  the  documents  explain  why  the  establishment  selected  that  location 
for  the  CCP? 

4.  Is  there  a control  at  the  identified  point  in  the  process  that  will  prevent, 
eliminate,  or  reduce  to  acceptable  levels  the  identified  hazards? 

5.  Does  the  establishment  have  scientific,  technical,  or  regulatory  support 
for  the  critical  limit? 

6.  Does  the  support  appear  credible? 

7.  Does  the  establishment  have  documents  supporting  the  monitoring 
procedures  and  frequencies  listed  in  the  HACCP  plan? 

a.  If  the  CSI  questions  the  monitoring  frequencies,  he  or  she  should  perform 
a monitoring  check  between  the  scheduled  performances  of  the  establishment’s 
monitoring  procedure. 

b.  If  the  CSI  finds  deviations,  and  the  establishment  has  not,  he  or  she 
should  verify  that  the  establishment  addresses  this  issue. 

8.  Does  the  establishment  have  documents  supporting  the  verification 
procedures  and  frequencies  listed  in  the  HACCP  plan?  Do  the  documents 
support  what  the  establishment  has  done? 

9.  If  the  establishment  has  supporting  documents  for  these  decisions,  does 
the  documentation  support  the  decisions? 

G.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  has  no  supporting  documentation  to  support  why  it  is 
not  necessary  to  establish  controls  for  food  safety  hazards  identified  in 
the  hazard  analysis. 

• The  establishment  has  no  decisionmaking  documents  associated  with 
the  selection  of  the  CCPs. 


11-13 


r 

• The  establishment  has  no  scientific,  technical,  or  regulatory  support  for  \ 

the  critical  limit. 

• The  establishment  has  no  documentation  supporting  the  monitoring 
procedures  and  frequencies. 

• The  establishment  has  no  documentation  supporting  the  verification 
procedures  and  frequencies. 

• The  establishment  has  documentation,  but  the  documentation  does  not 
support  the  decisions  made. 

NOTE:  There  are  situations  when  the  CSI  needs  more  information  to  determine 
whether  the  establishment  is  meeting  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  41 7.2.  If  the 
establishment  is  monitoring  its  critical  limit  every  hour,  and  the  only  supporting 
documents  that  are  available  are  the  monitoring  records  for  the  past  year,  the 
CSI  might  need  more  information  to  determine  whether  the  HACCP  plan 
complies  with  9 CFR  417.2.  The  CSI  could  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter 
requesting  that  the  establishment  reassess  its  HACCP  plan.  The  CSI  has  not 
been  trained  in  assessing  the  scientific  and  technical  information  that  an 
establishment  might  have  to  support  the  HACCP  system.  The  CSIs  have 
resources  available  to  assist  them  In  evaluating  this  information.  He  or  she  can 
contact  the  TSC,  or  can  contact  the  DO  and  request  assistance  from  a CSO. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

H.  What  is  the  regulatory  requirement  for  HACCP  records? 

9 CFR  417.5(a)(3)  - The  establishment  shall  maintain:  Records  documenting  the 
monitoring  of  CCPs  and  their  critical  limits,  including  the  recording  of  actual 
times,  temperatures,  or  other  quantifiable  values,  as  prescribed  in  the 
establishment’s  HACCP  plan;  the  calibration  of  process-monitoring  instruments; 
corrective  actions,  including  all  actions  taken  in  response  to  a deviation; 
verification  procedures  and  results;  product  code(s),  product  name  or  identity,  or 
slaughter  production  lot  Each  of  these  records  shall  include  the  date  the  record 
was  made. 

I.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5(a)(3)? 

CSIs  should  verify  these  requirements  by  reviewing  HACCP  records  that 
document  the  monitoring  of  CCPs  and  their  critical  limits,  verification  procedures 
and  frequencies,  and  corrective  actions  taken  in  response  to  a deviation  from  a 
critical  limit,  a deviation  not  covered  by  a critical  limit,  or  an  unforeseen  hazard.  ( 

These  requirements  can  be  verified  performing  the  HACCP  01  and  HACCP  02 


11-14 


procedures.  In  verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the 
following  questions: 

1 . Do  the  records  document  the  monitoring  of  CCPs  and  their  critical  limits? 

2.  Do  the  records  include  actual  times,  temperatures,  or  other  quantifiable 
values,  as  prescribed  in  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan? 

3.  Do  the  monitoring,  verification,  and  corrective  action  records  Include 
product  codes,  product  name  or  identity,  or  slaughter  production  lot,  and  the  date 
the  record  was  made? 

4.  Are  the  verification  procedures  and  results  of  those  procedures 
documented? 

5.  Is  the  time  recorded  when  the  verification  activity  was  performed? 

6.  Does  the  record  contain  the  date  the  record  was  made? 

7.  Are  the  process-monitoring  calibration  procedures  and  results  being 
recorded? 

J.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  records  do  not  have  the  monitoring  results  recorded. 

• The  records  do  not  include  actual  times  that  monitoring  or  verification 
activities  are  performed. 

• The  records  Include  entries  such  as  “acc”,  “ok”,  or  check  marks  rather 
than  actual  values  for  monitoring  results. 

• The  monitoring  entries  do  not  include  product  identification  or  code. 

• The  records  do  not  Include  the  date  the  record  was  completed. 

• Initials  being  recorded  rather  than  the  verification  procedures  and  results. 

• The  corrective  actions  taken  in  response  to  a deviation  from  a critical  limit, 
other  deviation,  or  unforeseen  hazard  are  not  recorded. 

• The  results  of  the  calibration  of  process  monitoring  instruments  are  not 
recorded. 


11-15 


CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

K.  What  is  the  regulatory  requirement  for  record  authenticity? 

9 CFR  41 7.5(b)  - Each  entry  on  a record  maintained  under  the  HACCP  plan 
shall  be  made  at  the  time  the  specific  event  occurs  and  include  the  date  and  time 
recorded,  and  shall  be  signed  or  initialed  by  the  establishment  employee  making 
the  entry. 

L.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5(b)? 

CSIs  should  verify  this  regulatory  requirement  by  reviewing  HACCP  records 
documenting  the  monitoring  of  CCPs  and  their  critical  limits,  verification 
procedures  and  frequencies,  and  corrective  actions  taken  In  response  to  a 
deviation  from  a critical  limit  or  deviation  not  covered  by  a critical  limit  or 
unforeseen  hazard.  When  verifying  this  regulatory  requirement,  the  CSI  should 
seek  answers  to  the  following  questions  when  performing  the  HACCP  01  or 
HACCP  02  procedure: 

1 . Was  each  entry  on  the  record  made  at  the  time  the  event  occurred? 

2.  Does  each  entry  include  the  time? 

3.  Was  each  entry  on  the  record  signed  or  initialed  by  the  establishment 
employee  making  the  entry? 

M.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• Some  entries  on  the  records  do  not  contain  the  time  the  event  occurred. 

• The  records  do  not  include  the  signature  or  initials  of  the  person 
performing  the  activity. 

• There  is  no  date  on  the  records. 

• Results  are  not  being  recorded  when  the  events  occur. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

NOTE:  The  HACCP  monitoring  records  only  need  to  have  the  date  entered  once 
on  the  form  for  all  the  entries  made  on  that  date. 


11-16 


N.  What  is  the  regulatory  requirement  for  computerized  records? 

9 CFR  41 7.5(d)  - Records  maintained  on  computers.  The  use  of  records 
maintained  on  computers  is  acceptable,  provided  that  appropriate  controls  are 
implemented  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  electronic  data  and  signatures. 

O.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5(d)? 

The  CSI  can  verify  this  recordkeeping  requirement  by  performing  the  HACCP 
01  or  HACCP  02  procedure.  The  CSI  should  verify  this  requirement  by 
requesting  that  the  establishment  demonstrate  the  controls  that  it  has  in  place  to 
ensure  the  integrity  of  the  records.  When  verifying  this  requirement,  the  CSI 
should  seek  the  answer  to  the  following  question: 

Are  appropriate  controls  provided  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  electronic  data 
and  signatures? 

P.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  does  not  have  controls  in  place  to  ensure  the  integrity  of 
the  electronic  records. 

• The  establishment  has  controls  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  electronic 
records  but  Is  not  following  those  controls,  e.g.,  passwords  and  electronic 
signatures  are  not  kept  secure. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

Q.  What  is  the  regulatory  requirement  for  record  retention  and 
availability? 

9 CFR  417.5(e)(1)(2)-  Record  retention.  (1)  Establishments  shall  retain  all 
records  required  by  paragraph  (a)(3)  of  this  section  as  follows:  for  slaughter 
activities  for  at  least  one  year;  for  refrigerated  products,  for  at  least  one  year;  for 
frozen,  preserved,  or  shelf-stable  products,  for  at  least  two  years.  (2)  Off-site 
storage  of  records  required  by  paragraph  (a)(3)  of  this  section  is  permitted  after 
six  months,  if  such  records  can  be  retrieved  and  provided,  on-site,  within  24 
hours  of  an  FSIS  employee's  request. 

R.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5(e)(1)(2)? 

The  CSI  should  verify  that  the  records  are  being  maintained  the  required 
amount  of  time  by  reviewing  the  HACCP  records.  The  CSI  should  not  routinely 
request  past  records  to  verify  that  HACCP  records  are  being  maintained  for  the 


11-17 


appropriate  time.  If  the  CSI  suspects  that  records  are  not  being  maintained  for 
the  required  amount  of  time,  he  or  she  should  contact  the  Front-line  Supervisor 
for  instructions.  The  CSI  might  request  records  stored  off-site  one  time  to  ensure 
they  can  be  provided,  but  it  would  not  be  necessary  for  the  CSI  to  routinely 
request  records  that  are  stored  off-site  to  verify  this  requirement.  When  verifying 
this  recordkeeping  requirement,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the  following 
questions  performing  the  HACCP  01  or  HACCP  02  procedure: 

1.  Are  the  records  being  maintained  for  the  required  amount  of  time,  e.g.,  1 
year  for  slaughter  and  refrigerated  products  and  2 years  for  frozen,  preserved,  or 
shelf-stable  products? 

2.  Are  the  records  kept  on-site  for  6 months? 

3.  If  the  records  are  stored  off-site  after  6 months,  can  they  be  retrieved  in 
24  hours? 

S.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  is  not  maintaining  records  for  the  required  length  of  time. 

• The  records  are  not  being  maintained  on  premises  for  6 months. 

• The  establishment  cannot  retrieve  the  records  within  24  hours  when  stored 

off-site. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

T.  What  is  the  regulatory  requirement  for  pre-shipment  review? 

9 CFR  417.5(c)  - Prior  to  shipping  product,  the  estabiishment  shali  review  the 
records  associated  with  the  production  of  that  product,  documented  in 
accordance  with  this  section,  to  ensure  completeness,  including  the 
determination  that  all  critical  limits  were  met  and,  if  appropriate,  corrective 
actions  were  taken,  including  the  proper  disposition  of  product.  Where 
practicable,  this  review  shall  be  conducted,  dated,  and  signed  by  an  individual 
who  did  not  produce  the  record(s),  preferably  by  someone  trained  in  accordance 
with  §417.7  of  this  part,  or  the  responsible  establishment  official. 

U.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5(c)? 

FSIS  considers  product  to  be  “produced  and  shipped”  when  the  establishment 
completes  pre-shipment  review.  Verifying  that  the  establishment  has  completed 
pre-shipment  review  enables  inspection  program  personnel  to  know  whether  the 


11-18 


company  has  taken  full  and  final  responsibility  for  applying  its  HACCP  controls  to 
the  product  that  it  has  produced.  The  CSI  should  occasionally  perform  a 
verification  check  by  observing  the  establishment  employee  perform  the  pre- 
shipment  review.  This  type  of  observation  is  particularly  important  if  the  CSI  is 
new  to  the  establishment.  Once  the  observation  verification  has  been  performed, 
this  regulatory  requirement  can  be  verified  using  the  recordkeeping  component  of 
the  HACCP  02  procedure.  The  CSI  should  understand  that  pre-shipment  review 
can  be  accomplished  if  the  product  is  at  a location  other  than  the  producing 
establishment,  as  long  as  the  review  of  appropriate  documents  and  compliance 
with  9 CFR  417.5(c)  occurs  before  the  product  leaves  the  control  of  the 
producing  establishment. 

When  verifying  an  establishment’s  pre-shipment  review  of  Its  records  by 
performing  the  HACCP  02  procedure,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the 
following  questions: 

1 . Has  the  establishment  reviewed  the  records  associated  with  the 
production  of  the  product,  prior  to  shipment? 

2.  Has  the  pre-shipment  review  been  signed  and  dated  by  an  establishment 
employee? 

V.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  ships  the  product  without  conducting  a pre-shipment 
review. 

• The  establishment  performs  pre-shipment  review  but  does  not  sign  and 
date  the  records. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  VI  - Corrective  Actions 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  that  applies  to  corrective  actions  taken  in 
response  to  a deviation  from  a critical  limit? 

9 CFR  Part  41 7.3(a)  - The  written  HACCP  plan  shall  Identify  the  corrective 
action  to  be  followed  in  response  to  a deviation  from  a critical  limit  The  HACCP 
plan  shall  describe  the  corrective  action  to  be  taken,  and  assign  responsibility  for 
taking  corrective  action,  to  ensure:  (1)  The  cause  of  the  deviation  is  identified  and 
eliminated;  (2)  The  CCP  will  be  under  control  after  the  corrective  action  is  taken; 
(3)  Measures  to  prevent  recurrence  are  established;  and  (4)  No  product  that  is 
injurious  to  health  or  otherwise  adulterated  as  a result  of  the  deviation  enters 
commerce. 


11-19 


B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.3(a)? 

When  there  is  a deviation  from  a critical  limit,  the  CSI  verifies  that  the 
requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3(a)  are  met  by  comparing  the  corrective  actions 
taken  by  the  establishment  to  the  requirements  of  the  regulation.  The  CSI  should 
verify  that  the  corrective  action  requirements  are  met  as  part  of  the  HACCP  01 
and  HACCP  02  procedures.  The  CSI  can  verify  these  requirements  by  using  the 
recordkeeping  component  or  the  review  and  observation  component  of  the 
procedures.  The  corrective  action  requirements  should  be  verified  every  time  a 
deviation  occurs.  To  verify  compliance  with  the  corrective  action  regulatory 
requirements,  the  CSI  seeks  answers  to  the  following  questions: 

1 . Did  the  establishment  identify  the  cause  of  the  deviation? 

2.  Did  the  corrective  action  eliminate  the  cause? 

3.  Did  the  corrective  actions  ensure  that  the  CCP  is  brought  under  control? 

4.  Were  measures  implemented  to  prevent  recurrence  of  the  deviation? 

5.  Did  the  actions  ensure  that  no  product  that  is  injurious  to  health  or 
otherwise  adulterated,  as  a result  of  the  deviation,  enters  commerce? 

When  seeking  answers  to  these  questions,  the  CSI  should: 

a.  Review  the  corrective  action  records  associated  with  the  deviation  from 
the  critical  limit  and  observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective  actions. 

b.  Compare  the  establishment’s  recorded  corrective  actions  to  the 
regulatory  requirements  listed  in  9 CFR  417.3(a)  to  determine  whether  the 
corrective  actions  taken  in  response  to  the  deviation  from  the  critical  limit  meet  all 
of  these  requirements. 

c.  Observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective  actions  to  verify  that 
the  establishment  has  identified  the  appropriate  affected  product. 

d.  Observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective  actions  to  verify  that 
the  establishment  has  identified  and  eliminated  the  cause  of  the  deviation. 

e.  Observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective  actions  to  verify  that 
the  establishment’s  corrective  actions  have  the  CCP  under  control  after  the 
actions  are  taken. 

f.  Observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective  actions  to  verify  that 
preventive  measures  are  established. 


11-20 


g.  Observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective  actions  to  verify  that 
the  establishment  prevents  product  that  is  injurious  to  health  or  otherwise 
adulterated,  as  a result  of  this  deviation,  from  entering  into  commerce. 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  did  not  identify  the  cause  of  the  deviation  from  a critical 
limit. 

• The  establishment  identified  the  cause  of  the  deviation  from  the  critical  limit, 
but  did  not  take  appropriate  actions  to  eliminate  that  cause. 

• The  establishment  did  not  implement  appropriate  measures  to  ensure  that 
the  CCP  is  under  control  after  the  actions  were  taken. 

• The  establishment  did  not  implement  measures  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of 
the  deviation. 

• The  establishment  did  not  take  appropriate  measures  to  ensure  that  no 
product  that  is  injurious  to  health  or  otherwise  adulterated,  as  a result  of  the 
deviation,  enters  commerce. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  In  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

D.  What  regulation  applies  when  there  is  a deviation  not  covered  by  a 
specific  corrective  action  or  an  unforeseen  hazard  occurs? 

9 CFR  41 7.3(b)  - If  a deviation  not  covered  by  a specified  corrective  action 
occurs,  or  if  another  unforeseen  hazard  arises,  the  establishment  shall:  (1) 
Segregate  and  hold  the  affected  product,  at  least  until  the  requirements  of 
paragraphs  (b)(2)  and  (b)(3)  of  this  section  are  met;  (2)  Perform  a review  to 
determine  the  acceptability  of  the  affected  product  for  distribution;  (3)  Take 
action,  when  necessary,  with  respect  to  the  affected  product  to  ensure  that  no 
product  that  is  injurious  to  health  or  otherwise  adulterated,  as  a result  of  the 
deviation,  enters  commerce;  (4)... 

E.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.3(b)(1)-(3)? 

If  an  unforeseen  hazard  occurs,  the  CSI  is  to  verify  that  the  regulatory 
requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3(b)  are  met  by  comparing  the  corrective  actions 
taken  by  the  establishment  with  the  regulatory  requirements  in  9 CFR  417.3(b). 
The  CSI  should  verify  that  these  requirements  are  met  each  time  there  is  a 
deviation  not  covered  by  specific  corrective  actions,  or  an  unforeseen  hazard 


11-21 


occurs.  These  requirements  should  be  verified  as  part  of  the  HACCP  01  or 
HACCP  02  procedures.  The  CSI  should  answer  the  following  questions  to 
determine  whether  the  corrective  action  requirements  have  been  met: 

1 . Did  the  establishment  segregate  and  hold  all  affected  product? 

NOTE:  To  determine  what  product  is  affected,  consider  such  factors  as  the 
pathogen  of  concern;  the  processing  and  packaging;  the  equipment;  the 
establishment’s  testing  under  its  HACCP  plan;  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan 
monitoring  and  verification  activities  performed  in  accordance  with  417.2  and 
417.4;  Sanitation  SOP  records  as  required  in  416.16;  and  whether  some  or  all  of 
the  products  controlled  by  the  same  or  substantially  similar  HACCP  plans  have 
been  affected. 

2.  Did  the  establishment  perform  a review  to  determine  the  acceptability  of 
the  affected  product  for  distribution? 

3.  Did  the  establishment  take  necessary  action  with  respect  to  the  affected 
product  to  ensure  that  no  product  that  is  injurious  to  health,  or  otherwise 
adulterated  as  a result  of  the  deviation,  enters  commerce? 

4.  Was  a reassessment  conducted  to  determine  whether  the  newly 
identified  deviation  or  other  unforeseen  hazard  should  be  incorporated  into  the 
HACCP  plan? 

When  seeking  answers  to  these  questions,  the  CSI  should: 

a.  Review  the  corrective  action  records  associated  with  the  deviation  or 
unforeseen  hazard  and  observe  the  establishment  executing  the  corrective 
actions. 

b.  Compare  the  establishment’s  recorded  corrective  actions  to  the 
regulatory  requirements  listed  in  9 CFR  417.3(b)(1)(2)(3)(4)  to  determine  whether 
the  corrective  actions  taken  meet  all  of  these  requirements. 

c.  Observe  the  establishment  segregating  and  holding  the  affected  product 
to  verify  that  the  establishment  segregated  and  held  all  affected  product. 

d.  Observe  the  establishment  evaluating  the  affected  product  to  verify  that 
only  acceptable  product  is  released. 

F.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  did  not  hold  all  affected  product. 


11-22 


• The  establishment  held  product,  but  it  was  not  the  product  that  was 
affected. 

• The  establishment  did  not  evaluate  the  product  to  determine  whether  it  was 
acceptable  for  distribution. 

• The  establishment  evaluated  the  product  and  found  It  to  be  unacceptable  for 
distribution,  but  did  not  take  the  necessary  action  to  ensure  that  no  product 
injurious  to  health  or  otherwise  adulterated,  as  a result  of  this  deviation, 
enters  commerce. 

• A reassessment  was  not  conducted  to  determine  whether  the  newly 
identified  deviation  or  unforeseen  hazard  should  be  incorporated  into  the 
HACCP  plan. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

G.  What  is  the  regulation  that  applies  to  reassessment  when  a deviation 
not  covered  in  the  HACCP  plan,  or  an  unforeseen  hazard  occurs? 

9 CFR  41 7.3(b)(4)  - Perform  or  obtain  reassessment  by  an  individual  trained  in 
accordance  with  §417.7  of  this  part,  to  determine  whether  the  newly  identified 
deviation  or  other  unforeseen  hazard  should  be  incorporated  into  the  HACCP 
plan. 

H.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.3(b)(4)? 

The  reassessment  requirement  cannot  be  randomly  verified  because 
reassessment  occurs  when  something  triggers  it,  e.g.,  a deviation  not  covered  by 
a specific  corrective  action  or  an  unforeseen  hazard,  etc.  The  establishment  is 
required  to  document  its  reassessment  when  It  is  triggered  by  a deviation  not 
covered  by  a specific  corrective  action  or  unforeseen  hazard.  The  CSI  should 
verify  that  the  establishment  Is  meeting  the  reassessment  requirement  by 
reviewing  the  corrective  action  records  when  a deviation  not  covered  by  a 
specific  corrective  action  or  unforeseen  hazard  occurs.  When  verifying 
compliance  with  9 CFR  417.3(b)(4),  the  CSI  should  seek  to  address  the  following 
type  questions: 

1 . Was  a reassessment  conducted  as  a result  of  an  unforeseen  hazard? 

2.  Does  the  establishment  have  supporting  documentation  for  the  decisions 
made  during  the  reassessment? 


11-23 


I.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• A deviation  not  covered  by  a specific  corrective  action  or  an  unforeseen 
hazard  occurred,  and  a reassessment  was  not  conducted. 

• The  establishment  conducted  a reassessment  in  response  to  a deviation 
not  covered  by  a specific  corrective  action  or  an  unforeseen  hazard  and 
determined  that  the  newly  identified  deviation  or  unforeseen  hazard  should 
not  be  incorporated  into  the  HACCP  plan,  but  had  no  supporting 
documentation  for  that  decision. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

PART  VII  - Reassessment  Requirement 

A.  What  is  the  regulation  that  applies  to  reassessment  of  the  HACCP 
plan? 

9 CFR  41 7.4(a)(3)  - Reassessment  of  the  HACCP  plan.  Every  establishment 
shall  reassess  the  adequacy  of  the  HACCP  plan  at  least  annually  and  whenever 
any  changes  occur  that  could  affect  the  hazard  analysis  or  alter  the  HACCP  plan. 
Such  changes  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  changes  in:  raw  materials  or 
source  of  raw  materials;  product  formulation;  slaughter  or  processing  methods  or 
systems;  production  volume;  personnel;  packaging;  finished  product  distribution 
systems;  or,  the  intended  use  or  consumers  of  the  finished  product.  The 
reassessment  shall  be  performed  by  an  individual  trained  in  accordance  with 
§ 417.7  of  this  part.  The  HACCP  plan  shall  be  modified  immediately  whenever  a 
reassessment  reveals  that  the  plan  no  longer  meets  the  requirements  of 
§ 417.2(c)  of  this  part. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.4(a)(3)? 

The  establishment  is  not  required  to  document  reassessments  that  are 
conducted  as  a result  of  changes  in  the  process,  unless  the  reassessment 
reveals  that  modification  of  the  HACCP  plan  is  necessary.  If  the  reassessment 
reveals  that  modification  of  the  HACCP  plan  is  necessary,  the  HACCP  plan  must 
be  modified  immediately,  and  the  HACCP  plan  must  be  signed  and  dated.  The 
establishment  is  also  required  to  sign  and  date  the  HACCP  plan  to  demonstrate 
that  the  annual  reassessment  has  been  conducted.  The  CSI  should  review 
reassessment  records,  if  available,  and  the  HACCP  plan  to  verify  these 
requirements.  When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.4(a)(3),  the  CSI 
should  consider  the  following  questions: 


11-24 


1 . Has  a reassessment  been  conducted  to  meet  the  annual  reassessment 
requirement? 

2.  Did  the  establishment  consider  any  significant  developments  that  have 
occurred  in  the  plant  or  that  have  occurred  with  respect  to  the  types  of  products 
produced  by  the  plant,  in  its  analysis? 

3.  Has  change  occurred  that  could  affect  the  hazard  analysis  or  HACCP 
plan? 

4.  Did  the  establishment  reassess? 

5.  If  the  reassessment  revealed  that  the  HACCP  plan  no  longer  meets 
regulatory  requirements,  was  the  HACCP  plan  modified  immediately? 


C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  annual  reassessment  was  not  conducted. 

• Reassessment  revealed  that  the  HACCP  plan  no  longer  meets  the 
requirements  of  9 CFR  417.2(c),  and  the  plan  was  not  immediately 
modified. 

NOTE:  The  establishment  can  reassess  Its  HACCP  plan  any  time  during  the 
calendar  year  to  meet  the  annual  reassessment  requirement.  This  requirement 
does  not  require  the  establishment  to  reassess  every  12  months.  The  CSI 
should  verify  the  establishment  Is  meeting  the  annual  reassessment  requirement 
somewhere  close  to  the  anniversary  date  of  HACCP  implementation  in  the 
establishment. 

D.  What  regulation  applies  to  reassessment  of  the  hazard  analysis? 

9 CFR  41 7.4(b)  - Reassessment  of  the  hazard  analysis.  Any  establishment  that 
does  not  have  a HACCP  plan  because  a hazard  analysis  has  revealed  no  food 
safety  hazards  that  are  reasonably  likely  to  occur  shall  reassess  the  adequacy  of 
the  hazard  analysis  whenever  a change  occurs  that  could  reasonably  affect 
whether  a food  safety  hazard  exists.  Such  changes  may  include,  but  are  not 
limited  to,  changes  in:  raw  materials  or  source  of  raw  materials;  product 
formulation;  slaughter  or  processing  methods  or  systems;  production  volume; 
packaging;  finished  product  distribution  systems;  or,  the  intended  use  or 
consumers  of  the  finished  product. 


11-25 


E.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.4(b)? 

The  CSI  will  have  to  rely  on  his  or  her  knowledge  of  the  operation  and  the 
changes  that  occur  within  that  operation.  When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR 
417.4(b),  the  CSI  must  answer  the  following  questions: 

1 . Does  the  establishment  have  a process  without  a HACCP  plan  because 
the  hazard  analysis  has  revealed  there  is  no  food  safety  hazard  likely  to  occur? 

2.  Have  any  changes  occurred  in  the  process  that  could  reasonably  affect 
whether  a food  safety  hazard  exists? 

3.  If  changes  have  occurred  in  the  process,  has  a reassessment  been 
conducted  as  a result  of  these  changes? 

F.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  has  a process  with  no  HACCP  plan,  changes  occurred 
that  could  affect  whether  a food  safety  hazard  exists,  and  the  establishment 
did  not  conduct  a reassessment  of  the  hazard  analysis. 

• Changes  occurred  that  could  affect  whether  a food  safety  hazard  exists, 
reassessment  was  conducted,  the  reassessment  revealed  that  a food  safety 
hazard  exists,  and  no  HACCP  plan  was  developed. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document.  CSIs  may  need  to  discuss  concerns  with  the  establishment 
and  issue  a 30-day  reassessment  letter. 

G.  What  regulations  apply  to  reassessment  after  a B Salmonella  set 
failure? 

9 CFR  310.25(b)(3)(ii)  or  381 .94(b)(3)(ii)  - If  the  establishment  fails  to  meet  the 
standard  on  the  next  [second]  series  of  compliance  tests  for  that  product,  the 
establishment  shall  reassess  its  HACCP  plan  for  that  product  and  take 
appropriate  corrective  actions. 

H.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  9 CFR  310.25(b)(3)(ii)  or 
381.94(b)(3)(ii)? 

If  an  establishment  fails  2 consecutive  Saimonella  sets  (B  set  failure),  it  must 
conduct  a reassessment  of  the  HACCP  plan  for  that  product.  When  the  CSI  is 
notified  that  the  establishment  failed  to  meet  the  standard  on  the  second 
consecutive  Salmonella  set,  he  or  she  should  verify  that  the  establishment  has 
reassessed  its  HACCP  plan.  The  CSI  should  review  the  hazard  analysis, 

HACCP  plan,  and  supporting  documents  for  the  decisions  made  during 


11-26 


reassessment.  When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  310.25(b)(3)(ii)  or 
381.94(b)(3)(ii),  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the  following  questions: 

1 . Was  a reassessment  conducted? 

2.  If  a reassessment  was  conducted,  did  the  establishment  consider 
Salmonella  a food  safety  hazard  reasonably  likely  to  occur  in  that  process? 

3.  If  the  establishment  did  not  consider  Salmonella  a food  safety  hazard 
reasonably  likely  to  occur,  does  it  have  documentation  to  support  this  decision? 

NOTE:  CSIs  will  also  work  with  other  program  personnel  as  described  in 
Chapter  III,  Salmonella  Performance  Standards. 

I.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  failed  2 consecutive  Salmonella  sets,  and  the  HACCP 
plan  was  not  reassessed. 

• The  HACCP  plan  was  reassessed  and  Salmonella  was  not  considered  a 
food  safety  hazard  likely  to  occur,  but  the  establishment  has  no  supporting 
documents  for  this  decision. 


11-27 


CSOs 


PART  I - HACCP  Assessment 

A.  What  are  the  CSOs  responsibilities  for  HACCP  assessment? 

The  CSO  performs  comprehensive  assessments  of  all  food  safety  systems  in 
operation.  The  focus  of  the  comprehensive  assessment  is  on  the  design  of  the 
food  safety  systems.  For  HACCP,  the  CSO  will  assess  the  design  of  the  HACCP 
plans,  microbiological  testing  protocols,  and  any  other  programs  that  will  have  an 
impact  on  food  safety  In  the  establishment. 

After  the  CSO  has  assessed  the  systems  individually,  he  or  she  determines 
whether  the  findings  from  one  system  correlate  to  the  findings  from  another,  such 
as  investigating  whether  there  is  information  from  sanitation  records  indicating 
that  there  were  sanitation  problems  on  a RTE  line  on  the  day  that  the 
establishment  collected  a sample  of  product  that  tested  positive  for  L 
monocytogenes. 

When  the  CSO  has  completed  the  comprehensive  assessment  in  the 
establishment,  he  or  she  documents  an  Agency  position.  The  CSO’s  report  is  e- 
mailed  to  the  DO  and  the  Front-line  Supervisor.  If  the  CSO  finds  that  the  HACCP 
system  does  not  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.2  and  417.5  because  of 
problems  with  Its  design  or  scientific  basis,  he  or  she  will  issue  a 30-day 
reassessment  letter  to  the  establishment.  If  the  problems  are  severe,  the  CSO 
may  decide  to  draft  an  NOIE,  for  issuance  by  the  DO,  or  recommend  other 
enforcement  actions  described  in  the  Rules  of  Practice,  9 CFR  Part  500.  The 
CSO  will  work  with  In-plant  Inspection  program  personnel  to  develop  a 
verification  plan  for  any  new  verification  activities  that  might  be  necessary  as  a 
result  of  the  comprehensive  assessment  and  the  corrective  actions  requested. 
The  Front-line  Supervisor  will  be  e-mailed  a copy  of  the  verification  plan  if  he  or 
she  is  not  available  at  the  establishment.  The  Front-line  Supervisor  and  the  CSI 
should  contact  the  CSO  any  time  they  have  concerns  about  whether  the 
corrective  actions  taken  by  the  establishment  are  adequate  to  meet  the  HACCP 
requirements. 

PART  II  --  Review  of  the  Hazard  Analysis 
A.  How  do  CSOs  assess  a hazard  analysis? 

CSOs  will  focus  on  the  design  of  the  hazard  analysis  to  verify  that  It  complies 
with  the  applicable  regulatory  requirements.  The  CSO’s  data  collection  and 
analysis  will  supplement  and  add  scientific  and  technical  weight  to  the  verification 
of  the  in-plant  team.  The  CSO  should  request  records  and  information  from  the 
in-plant  team  about  its  verification  of  the  hazard  analysis.  CSOs  should  verify 


11-28 


that  the  establishment  has  considered  food  safety  hazards  that  can  occur  before, 
during,  and  after  entry  of  product  into  the  establishment.  CSOs  will  use  their 
scientific  knowledge  and  professional  expertise  when  reviewing  the  design  of  the 
hazard  analysis  to  verify  that  the  establishment  has  identified  the  appropriate 
food  safety  hazards  and  preventive  measures  for  those  hazards.  Some  questions 
that  the  CSO  seeks  answers  for  when  reviewing  the  hazard  analysis  are: 

1 . Have  the  appropriate  hazards  been  considered  for  the  products 
produced? 

2.  Have  the  specific  microbial,  chemical,  and  physical  hazards  been 
Identified  that  are  prevalent  to  the  specific  products  or  process  categories? 

3.  Are  there  any  other  hazards  that  would  seem  to  be  relevant  that  have  not 
been  considered? 

4.  Are  the  establishment’s  determinations  about  hazards  that  are 
reasonably  likely  to  occur  based  on  relevant  historical  data,  scientific  information, 
or  technical  information  about  the  process  and  a clear  understanding  of  the 
regulatory  standard? 

5.  Are  the  controls  that  the  establishment  put  in  place  validated,  such  as  by 
repeated  testing  of  the  adequacy  of  the  CCPs  and  critical  limits,  and  review  of 
records,  to  ensure  that  the  hazard  is  prevented,  eliminated  or  reduced  to 
acceptable  levels? 

B.  Have  all  potential  sources  of  food  safety  hazards  been  considered? 

The  CSO  should  consider  whether  all  potential  sources  of  food  safety  hazards 
have  been  considered  by  the  establishment,  not  merely  those  mentioned  In  9 
CFR  41 7.2(a)(3).  In  making  that  determination,  the  CSO  should  ask  whether  the 
establishment  has  considered  and  addressed  the  following  questions: 

1 . Are  any  of  the  ingredients  likely  to  present  microbial,  chemical,  or 
physical  hazards? 

2.  Does  the  food  contain  reworked  product  that  might  have  different 
microbial,  chemical,  or  physical  characteristics  than  the  original  ingredients? 

3.  Does  the  food  permit  survival  or  multiplication  of  pathogens  before  or 
during  preparation? 

4.  Is  the  product  subject  to  recontamination  after  the  kill  step? 

5.  What  Is  the  normal  microbial  content  of  the  food  under  proper  storage 
conditions? 


11-29 


6.  Under  what  circumstances  will  the  normal  microbial  content  of  the  food 
change? 

7.  Does  the  layout  of  the  facility  provide  an  adequate  separation  of  raw 
materials  from  RTE  food? 

8.  Will  the  equipment  provide  the  time/temperature  controls  necessary  for 
safe  product? 

9.  Does  the  method  of  packaging  affect  the  multiplication  of  microbial 
pathogens  or  the  formation  of  toxins? 

10.  Can  the  sanitation  practices  that  are  employed  affect  the  safety  of  the 
food  that  is  being  prepared? 

11.  Do  the  employees  understand  the  food  preparation  process  and  the 
factors  that  they  must  control  to  ensure  safe  food? 

12.  What  is  the  likelihood  that  the  food  will  be  stored  at  an  appropriate 
temperature? 

13.  Is  the  food  Intended  for  consumption  by  a population  with  Increased 
susceptibility  to  illness? 

14.  Will  the  preventive  measures  associated  with  each  hazard  “prevent, 
eliminate,  or  reduce  to  an  acceptable  level  the  hazards  the  establishment 
Identified  in  the  hazard  analysis?” 

C.  How  do  CSOs  assess  the  use  of  prerequisite  programs? 

When  the  CSO  encounters  a hazard  analysis  in  which  one  or  more  identified 
food  safety  hazards  are  determined  not  reasonably  likely  to  occur  because  of 
prerequisite  programs,  the  CSO  should  request  access  to  the  prerequisite 
program  as  well  as  recent  prerequisite  program  records  to  assess  the 
effectiveness  of  these  programs. 

The  CSO  will  review  the  description  and  features  of  the  prerequisite  program, 
including  any  supporting  documents  the  establishment  has  for  the  criteria  in  the 
prerequisite  program.  The  CSO  should  review  such  documents  to  determine 
whether  they  support  the  establishment’s  decision  that  the  hazard  is  not 
reasonably  likely  to  occur. 

The  CSO  will  review  data  reflecting  how  the  program  has  operated  over  a 
recent  period  of  time  and  consider  whether  the  control  seems  to  be  successful. 
The  CSO  should  find  that  the  records  continue  to  support  the  decision  that  the 


11-30 


hazard  is  not  reasonably  likely  to  occur  because  of  the  presence  of  the 
prerequisite  program. 

If  an  establishment  is  producing  raw  ground  beef  products  and  has 
a prerequisite  program  based  on  the  receipt  of  purchase  specifications,  the  CSO 
should  review  the  records  associated  with  such  a prerequisite  program  to  verify 
that  the  documentation  supports  the  decision  made  in  the  hazard  analysis  that  E. 
coli  0157:H7  is  not  reasonably  likely  to  occur. 

If  the  establishment  is  producing  RTE  products  and  has  included  product  or 
environmental  testing  in  a prerequisite  program,  the  CSO  should  review  the 
prerequisite  program  to  verify  that  it  is  science-based.  The  CSO  will  assess  the 
establishment’s  total  system  to  verify  that  the  establishment  has  designed  its 
testing  procedures  so  that  if  indicator  organisms  or  L monocytogenes  are 
detected,  the  establishment  has  procedures  in  place  to  effectively  address  their 
presence.  The  CSO  will  review  written  procedures,  assess  decisionmaking 
documents  for  rationale,  and  review  laboratory  results. 

The  CSO  will  analyze  this  data  to  formulate  an  Agency  position  on  whether 
the  design  of  the  prerequisite  program  is  appropriate  to  address  the  decisions 
made  in  the  hazard  analysis.  The  CSO  should  ensure  the  prerequisite  program 
Is  working  in  concert  with  all  the  other  food  safety  programs  when  making  this 
determination. 

PART  III  - Assessment  of  Monitoring 
A.  What  does  the  CSO  do  to  assess  monitoring? 

CSOs  will  perform  data  collection  and  analysis  to  verify  that  the  design  of  the 
establishment’s  monitoring  procedures,  and  the  frequency  with  which  It  performs 
them,  are  adequate.  The  CSO  should  verify  that  the  monitoring  procedures 
describe  a planned  sequence  of  observations  or  measurements  that  are  to  occur 
at  a CCP.  The  CSO  should  read  the  monitoring  procedures  in  the  HACCP  plan 
and  see  whether  he  or  she  can  visualize  the  monitoring  activity  that  takes  place 
at  that  CCP.  Most  monitoring  procedures  should  be  rapid  because  they  relate  to 
“real-time”  processes. 

The  CSO  should  review  a minimum  of  60  days  monitoring  records  to  assist 
the  CSO  in  obtaining  the  following  information  about  the  monitoring  procedures 
and  frequencies: 

1 . Are  the  monitoring  frequencies  in  the  HACCP  plan  continuous? 

2.  Would  it  be  feasible  to  have  continuous  monitoring  frequencies? 

3.  If  the  monitoring  frequencies  are  not  continuous,  are  they  adequate  to 


11-31 


demonstrate  process  control,  e.g.,  statistically  based,  historically  supported,  etc.? 

4.  Is  the  basis  of  discontinuous  monitoring  frequencies  documented  and 
appropriate  for  the  HACCP  process  being  verified? 

5.  Does  the  establishment  review  monitoring  records  to  detect  trends  that 
can  be  corrected  before  the  loss  of  control?  If  so,  the  CSO  should  request  to 
review  these  records. 

6.  If  the  basis  for  discontinuous  monitoring  frequencies  is  not  documented, 
the  CSO  should  determine  whether  the  establishment  has  supported  its 
frequencies  as  required  by  9 CFR  417.5(a)(2),  and  if  not  appropriate,  action 
should  be  taken,  e.g.,  30-day  reassessment  letter  should  be  issued  to  the  plant. 

PART  IV  --  Assessment  of  Verification 

A.  How  will  CSOs  assess  compliance  with  the  verification  requirements? 

While  the  CSI  focuses  on  how  an  establishment  is  performing  the  verification 
activities  outlined  in  its  HACCP  plan,  CSOs  will  determine  whether  an 
establishment’s  on-going  verification  activities  comply  with  regulatory 
requirements  by  focusing  on  the  design  of  on-going  verification  activities. 
Consideration  of  design  features  should  be  based  on  a review  of  all  the 
verification  procedures  associated  with  a single  HACCP  plan. 

B.  What  records  will  the  CSO  review? 

The  CSO  should  review  records  that  cover  a minimum  of  60  days  of  activity. 
The  CSO  should  carefully  review  records  of  the  CCPs,  the  surrounding 
verification  procedures,  the  documents  justifying  their  selection,  and  the 
frequency  of  their  performance  and  then  consider  several  analytic  questions: 

1 . Are  the  verification  procedures  in  the  HACCP  plan  adequately  designed 
for  the  establishment  to  determine  whether  the  HACCP  system  is  functioning  as 
Intended? 

2.  What  do  records  reveal  about  performance  at  the  CCPs? 

3.  Have  there  been  deviations  from  critical  limits? 

4 If  there  were  several  deviations  from  critical  limits,  was  there  a 
reassessment  and  a new  critical  limit  established?  If  not,  does  the  establishment 
have  documentation  to  support  this  decision? 

5.  If  there  were  any  deviations  from  critical  limits  at  the  CCP,  how  did  the 
verification  procedures  contribute  to  improving  the  situation? 


11-32 


6.  What  do  the  records  show  about  the  results  of  verification? 


7.  Is  the  HACCP  plan  designed  to  include  product  testing  as  a 
verification  procedure? 

8.  If  product  testing  is  a verification  procedure  listed  in  the  HACCP  plan,  is 
this  testing  program  science-based?  The  frequency  and  methodology  of  the 
testing  should  be  supported  in  the  science-based  program  (e.g.,  a rationale  when 
product  sampling  is  triggered — based  on  the  results  of  food  contact  surface  or 
environmental  testing  for  an  indicator  organism;  a rationale  for  sample  size  - 25 
gram  food  sample;  swab  area  size  - along  with  a rationale  for  whether  composite 
sampling  on  a daily  or  weekly  basis  is  used;  a rationale  for  product  action  based 
on  indicator  and  pathogen  testing  results;  a rationale  for  hold-and-test  provisions 
if  a food  contact  surface  is  positive  for  an  indicator  organism  or  pathogen).  Is  the 
testing  designed  in  a manner  to  detect  the  organism  of  concern? 

PART  V - Assessment  Activities  for  Recordkeeping 

A.  How  will  CSOs  review  these  recordkeeping  activities? 

The  CSC  will  assemble  the  establishment’s  HACCP  records,  as  specified  in  9 
CFR  417.5(a)(3)  that  cover  a defined  recent  period  of  time. 

Using  establishment  HACCP  records  only,  the  CSC  should  construct  a 
summary  of  what  happened,  related  to  production  of  safe  and  wholesome 
products,  in  the  establishment  during  that  time. 

The  CSC  should  discuss  with  the  in-plant  inspection  team  and  establishment 
what  could  be  understood  from  the  records.  The  in-plant  Inspection  team  and 
the  establishment  should  discuss  whether  the  records  reflect  what  actually 
happened. 

The  CSC  should  also  conduct  an  assessment  of  the  scientific,  regulatory, 
technical,  or  other  supporting  documentation.  During  the  assessment  of  the 
records  the  CSC  will  seek  answers  to  the  following  type  questions: 

1 . Do  the  decisionmaking  documents  support  the  selection  and 
development  of  CCPs  and  critical  limits? 

2.  Do  the  supporting  documents  support  both  the  monitoring  and  verification 
procedures  selected  and  the  frequency  of  those  procedures? 

3.  Do  the  decisionmaking  documents  support  the  decisions  made  in  the 
hazard  analysis? 


11-33 


4.  Does  the  establishment  have  documents  to  support  the  disposition  of 
affected  products? 

5.  Do  the  documents  support  the  decisions  made  during  reassessment? 

6.  If  scientific  documents  are  used  to  support  decisions  made,  has  the 
establishment  demonstrated  applicability  to  their  in-plant  environment? 

PART  VI  --  Assessment  of  Corrective  Actions 

A.  How  do  CSOs  assess  an  estabiishment’s  corrective  actions? 

CSOs  should  select  records  from  at  least  60  days  of  activity  to  verify 
the  establishment’s  corrective  actions.  They  should  focus  the  assessment  on  the 
design  of  the  corrective  actions.  CSOs  will  select  a variety  of  types  of  critical 
limits,  the  corrective  actions  planned  when  a deviation  occurs  and  recent  records 
of  critical  limits,  deviations  from  critical  limits,  and  the  corrective  actions. 

The  CSO  should  seek  answers  to  the  following  type  questions  when  verifying 
the  corrective  action  requirement: 

1 . Did  the  corrective  actions  taken  in  response  to  a deviation  from  a critical 
limit  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3? 

2.  Did  the  corrective  actions  taken  when  a deviation  not  covered  by  a 
specified  corrective  action  occurs,  or  if  another  unforeseen  hazard  arises,  meet 
the  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3(b)? 

3.  Have  the  corrective  actions  been  effective,  i.e.,  have  they  resulted  In 
control  at  the  CCP  with  respect  to  the  critical  limit  from  which  there  was  a 
deviation?  If  the  records  do  not  demonstrate  this  control,  it  is  difficult  to  conclude 
that  the  planned  corrective  actions  have  met  regulatory  requirements. 

4.  Have  the  preventive  measures  implemented  in  the  establishment 
lessened  the  rate  of  the  deviations  from  a critical  limit? 

PART  VII  --  Reassessment  Activities 

A.  How  do  CSOs  review  reassessments? 

The  CSO  should  review  a minimum  of  60  days  records  to  determine 
if  there  were  situations  that  occurred  that  should  have  triggered  a reassessment 
of  the  hazard  analysis  or  HACCP  plan. 

If  reassessment  has  occurred,  the  CSO  should  review  the  establishment’s 
determination  made  based  on  the  reassessment,  and  consider  the  following: 


11-34 


1 . Did  the  establishment  change  its  HACCP  plan? 

2.  What  was  the  basis  for  its  decision? 

3.  Does  it  have  decisionmaking  documents  to  support  making  the  change, 
or  to  support  no  change,  as  appropriate? 

4.  If  a change  was  made,  has  the  establishment  validated  the  change? 

5.  Does  it  have  supporting  documents  for  the  critical  limit,  the  monitoring 
frequency,  etc.? 

• For  example,  if  the  establishment  produces  raw  beef  products  and 
conducted  a reassessment  considering  the  relevant  scientific  data,  the 
CSO  should  ask  the  following  questions: 

a.  If  the  establishment  is  producing  trimmings  for  ground  beef  and  tests  the 
trimmings  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  does  the  establishment  conduct  a reassessment 
when  a positive  result  is  received? 

b.  Does  the  establishment  producing  the  trimmings  have  documentation 
(scientific,  technical)  to  support  the  decisions  made  during  the  reassessment  that 
the  controls  in  place  are  adequate  to  control  E.  coll  0157:H7? 

c.  Has  the  establishment  validated  the  modified  HACCP  plan  by  repeatedly 
testing  the  adequacy  of  the  CCP,  critical  limits,  monitoring,  verification, 
recordkeeping  procedures,  and  corrective  actions  set  forth  in  the  HACCP  plan? 

d.  If  the  HACCP  plan  was  modified  to  include  microbiological  sampling  as  a 
verification  activity  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  interventions,  is  the  sampling 
program  statistically  valid? 

e.  If  the  establishment  did  not  modify  its  hazard  analysis  or  HACCP  plan  as 
a result  of  the  reassessment,  does  the  establishment  have  documents  to  support 
this  decision? 

• If  the  establishment  receives  raw  beef  for  grinding  and  conducted  a 
reassessment  considering  the  relevant  scientific  data,  the  CSO  should 
seek  answers  to  the  following  type  questions: 

a.  Does  the  receiving  establishment  have  purchase  specifications  requiring 
all  suppliers  that  determined  E.  coli  0157:H7  as  a hazard  reasonably  likely  to 
occur  to  have  one  or  more  CCPs  that  are  validated  to  eliminate  or  to  reduce  E. 
coli  0157:H7  below  detectable  levels,  and  that  verify  that  these  specifications  are 
met? 


11-35 


1 

b.  If  the  establishment  considered  E.  coli  0157:H7  as  a hazard  likely  to 
occur  in  the  grinding  process,  are  the  CCPs  designed  to  control  the  pathogen? 

c.  If  the  establishment  decided  that  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  not  a hazard  likely  to 
occur  because  this  pathogen  is  addressed  in  prerequisite  programs,  does  the 
establishment  maintain  documents  setting  out  the  procedures  of  the  prerequisite 
program  and  related  records  as  part  of  the  decisionmaking  documents? 

• If  the  establishment  is  producing  RTE  products,  the  CSO  should  review 
the  control  measures  included  in  the  HACCP  plans.  Sanitation  SOPs,  or 
prerequisite  programs.  The  CSO  will  review  the  written  procedures, 
assess  decisionmaking  documents  for  completeness  and  rationale,  and 
review  laboratory  results.  The  CSO  should  seek  answers  to  the  following 
type  questions: 

a.  Has  the  establishment  designed  a written  science-based  program  as  part 
of  the  HACCP  plan.  Sanitation  SOP,  or  prerequisite  program? 

b.  If  the  establishment  has  testing  procedures  in  place  for  indicator 
organisms  or  L monocytogenes,  does  the  establishment  have  In  place 
procedures  to  effectively  address  their  presence? 

c.  If  the  establishment  has  testing  procedures  in  place  for  indicator 
organisms  or  L monocytogenes,  does  the  establishment  increase  its  monitoring 
or  verification  sampling  when  significant  construction  occurs? 

d.  If  the  establishment  Is  using  an  anti-microbial  agent  in  the  product  in  the 
final  packaging  to  prevent  L monocytogenes  growth,  does  the  establishment 
have  data  to  validate  it  is  effective  against  L monocytogenes? 

e.  If  the  establishment  has  a post-lethality  treatment  applied,  does  the 
establishment  have  data  to  validate  it  Is  effective  against  L monocytogenes? 

If  the  CSO  observes  execution  problems  during  the  comprehensive  food 
safety  assessment,  he  or  she  should  document  those  in  the  Comprehensive 
Food  Safety  Assessment  report. 


11-36 


CHAPTER  III  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 
PATHOGEN  REDUCTION  ACTIVITIES 


TOPIC  PAGE 

Part  I E.  coli  Testing  IIM-2 

CSIs  III- 3-9 

Part  I General  Procedures  for  E.  coli  Testing  111-3 

Part  II  Sample  Collection  III-4 

Part  III  Sampling  Frequency  III-5-7 

Part  IV  Sample  Analysis  III-7 

Part  V Recording  of  Test  Results  1 1 1-8 

Part  VI  Evaluation  of  Results  1 1 1-9 

CSOs  111-10-11 

Part  I Assessment  of  Establishment  E.  coli 

Testing  Process  III-10-11 

Salmonella  Performance  Standards  lN-12-15 

Part  I Salmonella  Set  Failures  111-12-15 

A Set  Failure  111-12-13 

B Set  Failure  111-13-15 

C Set  Failure  111-15 


* '•  '» , 


35«'V^ 


8TM  3THCO  ?0  3jgA.T  l«  «5»TnA,H 

r'#s  . ,fri  . 


^ .., 


OROT 

D ’*.'>?■.'■  ■ "'5^  ^ 'I'^'  ^&J 


;/'M  - r MrT  ’-r* 


II? 


■ '*..  ”‘4"' . ■'  ’'*  '■  ' ‘ 

3Q'r^  ifiiJM*  '0^  mJ^^»: J 

"*¥*;A^  ; "4  . . 

. ' ‘"  t ■■% , 1 ' r , ,'  » • 

•MMia>: 


T-f  -lft  T, 


/ t-;  ..•i-  - ’ 

■ -V  ^ •(■'  .•V^'”  i-"Vr  ^ '’■' 

^ .^5-  'tf  . ■ }S ' ■’  '■  • ’ 

8^(11  - ..j  . ^ V 


ii'<':  f^atiaL;JteV^ 

^■■‘  - M«'  . . . 

• ,.■  :;.v 


4lO^0 


M’ 


'■/  ’ ■■.'''.  :g- 

_ ft  -'■  '..»  -WB.  — 


- I ^ 'Hfj^  Xml  I ' '•*  '■'5*  > 

cr-  ;r  4i*  ^o  Ti^onotio^  i»lf&fiofT»^cr 

•■  ~|  311^  1^'  '■.’^'  ■';>  *i  :.  ^^R,- 


^ ^ 2-  i ’ M ‘ 0iult6^te^  A 

If  ' .'•  /#  bw#lb^*.  ,!.■  «'•  ■ 

•.  . ||||i  itttrt. 

'ifVi-Urx  '..:|^.  . ,y|i|  rtlliil'.''.^  '.5o.-.,-«.*?^.-  ^ '* 


.Pr-t  .--ij 


^ ^Af(i00tJtui;r  if*;; 


MkM 


I ■ y 

u -:.. 


-F* 


•Jli. 


f - 
^r-,1  j 


: Mi  ‘'JtM 


Ik  & 


CHAPTER  III  - PATHOGEN  REDUCTION  ACTIVITIES 


PART  I --  E.  coli  Testing 

The  purpose  of  generic  E.  co// testing  is  to  verify  the  effectiveness  of  sanitation 
and  process  control  in  slaughter  facilities.  The  following  discussion  explains  how 
inspection  program  personnel  are  to  verify  that  the  establishment  is  maintaining 
such  controls. 

A.  What  is  the  generai  requirement  for  E.  coli  testing? 

Section  310.25  states:  (a)  "Criteria  for  verifying  process  control;  E.  coli  testing. 

(1)  Each  official  establishment  that  slaughters  livestock  must  test  for 
Escherichia  coli  Biotype  1 (E.  coli).  Establishments  that  slaughter  more 
than  one  type  of  livestock  or  both  livestock  and  poultry,  shall  test  the  type 
of  livestock  or  poultry  slaughtered  in  the  greatest  number.  The 
establishment  shall: 

(Hi)  Maintain  records  of  such  analytic  results  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  (a)(4)  of  this  section. 

(2)  Sampling  requirements. 

(i)  Written  procedures.  Each  establishment  shall  prepare  written 
specimen  collection  procedures  which  shall  identify  employees 
designated  to  collect  samples,  and  shall  address  locations(s)  of 
sampling,  how  sampling  randomness  is  achieved,  and  handling  of 
the  sample  to  ensure  sample  integrity.  The  written  procedures 
shall  be  made  available  to  FSIS  upon  request. 

(4)  Recording  of  test  results.  The  establishment  shall  maintain  accurate 
records  of  all  test  results,  in  terms  of  CFU/cm^  of  surface  area  sponged  or 
excised.  Results  shall  be  recorded  onto  a process  control  chart  or  table 
showing  at  least  the  most  recent  13  test  results,  by  type  of  livestock 
slaughtered.  Records  shall  be  retained  at  the  establishment  for  a period  of  12 
months  and  shall  be  made  available  to  FSIS  upon  request.” 

B.  How  wiii  Front-iine  Supervisors  verify  the  basic  requirement  of  these 
reguiations? 

At  the  time  an  establishment  Is  granted  inspection,  the  Front-line  Supervisor 
will  verify  that  the  written  E.  coli  testing  procedures  meet  the  basic  regulatory 
requirements.  The  Front-line  Supervisor  completes  the  E.  coli  Basic  Compliance 
Checklist  (FSIS  Form  5000-3)  when  performing  the  05A01  procedure.  This 
procedure  is  only  performed  once.  When  the  procedure  Is  performed,  the  Front- 
line Supervisor  should  use  this  checklist  to  verify  the  written  procedures  meet  the 
regulatory  requirements: 


III-l 


1 . Do  the  written  procedures  contain  procedures  for  collecting  samples  for  E. 
coli  testing? 

2.  Do  the  written  procedures  identify  the  establishment  employee 
designated  to  collect  the  samples  for  E.  co// testing? 

3.  Do  the  written  procedures  address  the  location  of  sampling? 

4.  Do  the  written  procedures  describe  how  sampling  randomness  is 
achieved? 

5.  Do  the  written  procedures  describe  how  the  samples  are  handled  to 
ensure  sample  integrity? 

6.  Is  the  establishment  collecting  samples  for  E.  coli  testing? 

7.  Is  the  establishment  recording  the  analytical  results  of  E.  co// tests  on  a 
process  control  chart  or  table? 

NOTE:  If  the  Front-line  Supervisor  performs  the  05A01  procedure  and 
determines  that  the  E.  coli  written  procedures  do  not  meet  regulatory 
requirements,  he  or  she  should  meet  with  establishment  management  to  inform 
them  that  they  need  E.  co// testing  procedures.  If  the  establishment  fails  to 
adequately  respond  to  the  Front-line  Supervisor’s  request,  he  or  she  should 
contact  the  DO  to  inform  them  of  the  situation.  If  there  are  changes  to  existing 
procedures,  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  notify  the  Front-line  Supervisor. 


m-2 


CSIs 


PART  I - General  Procedures  for  E.  coli  Testing 

A.  What  general  procedures  will  CSIs  follow? 

Each  official  establishment  that  slaughters  livestock  or  poultry  is  required  to 
test  for  Escherichia  coii  Biotype  1 . There  are  2 procedures  (05A01  and  05A02) 
that  CSIs  use  to  verify  that  these  establishments  meet  the  E.  coii  regulatory 
requirements.  The  basic  regulatory  requirements  are  in  9 CFR  310.25(a)(1)  - (4) 
for  livestock  slaughter  establishments.  The  basic  regulatory  requirements  for 
poultry  slaughter  establishments  are  set  out  In  9 CFR  381 .94(a)(1 ) - (4).  The 
regulatory  requirements  for  livestock  will  be  used  in  this  document  when  the 
livestock  and  poultry  regulations  are  the  same.  When  there  are  differences  in  the 
regulations,  both  regulations  will  be  listed.  If  CSIs  find  noncompliances  while 
carrying  out  the  methodologies  below,  they  are  to  follow  the  noncompliance 
determination  and  documentation  instructions  in  Chapter  IV  of  this  document. 

B.  How  will  the  CSI  verify  the  on-going  compliance  with  9 CFR  310.25(a)? 

The  CSI  will  verify  all  other  requirements  when  performing  the  05A02 
procedure.  The  CSI  will  utilize  FSIS  Form  5000-4  to  verify  that  these  regulatory 
requirements  are  met. 

C.  How  do  CSIs  verify  that  establishments  are  collecting  samples  from 
the  correct  type  of  livestock  or  poultry? 

When  verifying  the  sample  collection  requirements,  the  CSI  will  seek  an 
answer  to  the  following  question:  Is  the  establishment  collecting  samples  from 
the  type  of  livestock  or  poultry  that  It  slaughters  in  the  greatest  numbers? 

D.  What  is  an  example  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  slaughters  pork  in  the  greatest  numbers  but  Is 
collecting  samples  from  beef  carcasses. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


m-3 


PART  II  - Sample  Collection 

A.  What  regulations  apply  to  sample  collection? 

Paragraph  31 0.25(a)(2)(ii)  states:  Sample  collection.  The  establishment  shall 
collect  samples  from  all  chilled  livestock  carcasses,  except  those  boned  before 
chilling  (hot-boned),  which  must  be  sampled  after  the  final  wash.  Samples  must 
be  collected  in  the  following  manner;  (A)  For  cattle,  establishments  must  sponge 
or  excise  tissue  from  the  flank,  brisket  and  rump,  except  for  hide-on  calves,  in 
which  case  establishments  must  take  samples  by  sponging  from  inside  the 
flank,  inside  the  brisket,  and  inside  the  rump.  (B)  For  sheep,  goat,  horse,  mule, 
or  other  equine  carcasses,  establishments  must  sponge  from  the  flank,  brisket, 
and  rump,  except  for  hide-on  carcasses,  in  which  case  establishments  must  take 
samples  by  sponging  from  inside  the  flank,  inside  the  brisket,  and  inside  the 
rump.  (C)  For  swine  carcasses,  establishments  must  sponge  or  excise  tissue 
from  the  ham,  belly  and  jowl  areas. 

Paragraph  381.94(a)(2)(H)  states:  Sample  collection.  A whole  bird  must  be  taken 
from  the  end  of  the  chilling  process.  If  this  is  impracticable,  the  whole  bird  can  be 
taken  from  the  end  of  the  slaughter  line.  Samples  must  be  colleted  by  rinsing  the 
whole  carcass  in  an  amount  of  buffer  appropriate  for  that  type  of  bird.  Samples 
from  turkeys  also  may  be  collected  by  sponging  the  carcass  on  the  back  and 
thigh. 

B.  How  will  the  CSI  verify  these  regulations? 

When  verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  will  seek  answers  to  the  following 
questions: 

1.  Is  the  establishment  collecting  samples  at  the  required  location  in  the 
process? 

2.  Is  the  establishment  collecting  samples  by  sponging  or  excising  tissue 
from  the  required  sites  on  a livestock  carcass,  or  whole-bird  rinsing  a chicken  or 
turkey  carcass,  or  sponging  a turkey  carcass? 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  is  not  collecting  samples  from  chilled  carcasses,  and 
the  establishment  is  not  hot  boning. 

• The  establishment  is  sponging  tissue  from  areas  of  the  carcass  other  than 
the  flank,  brisket,  and  rump. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


m-4 


PART  III  - Sampling  Frequency 

A.  What  are  the  regulations  that  apply  to  sampling  frequency? 

Paragraph  310.25(a)(1)(i)  states:  Collect  samples  in  accordance  with  the 
sampling  techniques,  methodology,  and  frequency  requirements  in  paragraph 
(a)(2)  of  this  section; 

Paragraph  310.25(a)(2)(iii)  states:  Sampling  frequency.  Slaughter 
establishments,  except  very  low  volume  establishments  as  defined  in  paragraph 
(a)(2)(v)  of  this  section,  must  take  samples  at  a frequency  proportional  to  the 
volume  of  production  at  the  following  rates: 

Cattle,  sheep,  goats,  horses,  mules  and  other  equines:  1 test  per  300  carcasses, 
but  at  a minimum  of  one  sample  during  each  week  of  operation. 

Swine:  1 test  per  1,000  carcasses,  but  at  a minimum  of  one  sample  during  each 
week  of  operation. 

Paragraph  381 .94(a)(2)(iii)  states:  Sampling  frequency.  Slaughter 
establishments  except  very  low  volume  establishments  defined  in  paragraph 
(a)(2)(v)  of  this  section,  must  take  samples  at  a frequency  proportional  to  the 
establishment’s  volume  of  production  at  the  following  rates: 

Chickens:  1 sampie  per  22,000  carcasses,  but  a minimum  of  one  sampie  during 
each  week  of  operation. 

Turkeys,  ducks,  geese,  and  guineas:  1 sample  per  3,000  carcasses,  but  a 
minimum  of  one  sample  during  each  week  of  operation. 

Paragraph  310.25(a)(2)(iv)  states:  Sampling  frequency  alternatives.  An 
establishment  operating  under  a validated  HACCP  plan  in  accordance  with 
§41 7.2(b)  of  this  chapter  may  substitute  an  alternative  frequency  for  the 
frequency  of  sampling  required  under  paragraph  (a)(2)(iii)  of  this  section  if, 

(A)  The  alternative  is  an  integral  part  of  the  establishment’s  verification 
procedures  for  its  HACCP  plan  and, 

(B)  FSIS  does  not  determine,  and  notify  the  establishment  in  writing,  that  the 
alternative  frequency  is  inadequate  to  verify  the  effectiveness  of  the 
establishment’s  processing  controls. 

Paragraph  310.25(a)(2)(v)  states:  Sampling  in  very  low  volume  establishments. 
(A)  Very  tow  volume  establishments  annually  slaughter  no  more  than  6,000 
cattle,  6,000  sheep,  6,000  goats,  6,000  horses,  mules  or  other  equines,  20,000 


m-5 


swine,  ora  combination  of  livestock  not  exceeding  6,000  cattle  and  20,000  total 
of  all  livestock.  Very  low  volume  establishments  that  collect  samples  by 
sponging  shall  collect  at  least  one  sample  per  week,  starting  the  first  full  week  of 
operation  after  June  1 of  each  year,  and  continue  sampling  at  a minimum  of  once 
each  week  the  establishment  operates  until  June  1 of  the  following  year  or  until 
13  samples  have  been  collected,  whichever  comes  first  Very  low  volume 
establishments  collecting  samples  by  excising  tissue  from  carcasses  shall  collect 
one  sample  per  week,  starting  the  first  full  week  of  operation  after  June  1 of  each 
year,  and  continue  sampling  at  a minimum  of  once  each  week  the  establishment 
operates  until  one  series  of  13  tests  meets  the  criteria  set  forth  in  paragraph 
(a)(5)(i)  of  this  section. 

Paragraph  381.94(a)(2)(v)  states:  Sampling  in  very  low  volume  establishments. 
(A)  Very  low  volume  establishments  annually  slaughter  no  more  than  440,000 
chickens  or  60,000  turkeys,  60,000  ducks,  60,000  geese,  60,000  guineas  ora 
combination  of  all  types  of  poultry  not  exceeding  60,000  turkeys  and  440,000 
birds  total.  Very  low  volume  establishments  that  slaughter  turkeys,  ducks,  geese 
or  guineas  in  the  largest  number  must  collect  at  least  one  sample  during  each 
week  of  operation,  after  June  1 of  each  year,  and  continue  sampling  at  a 
minimum  of  once  each  week  the  establishment  operates  until  June  1 of  the 
following  year  or  until  13  samples  have  been  collected,  whichever  comes  first. 
Very  low  volume  establishments  slaughtering  chickens  in  the  largest  number 
shall  collect  one  sample  per  week,  starting  the  first  full  week  of  operation  after 
June  1 of  each  year,  and  continue  sampling  at  a minimum  of  once  each  week  the 
establishment  operates  until  one  series  of  13  tests  meets  the  criteria  set  forth  in 
paragraph  (a)(5)(i)  of  this  section. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  these  regulations? 

When  verifying  these  regulatory  requirements,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers 
to  questions  similar  to  the  following: 

1 . Is  the  establishment  collecting  samples  at  the  frequency  specified  in  9 
CFR310(a)(2)(iv)? 

2.  If  an  establishment  is  operating  under  a validated  HACCP  plan  that  has 
substituted  an  alternative  frequency,  is  the  alternative  frequency  an  integral  part 
of  the  HACCP  plan  verification  procedures? 

3.  Has  FSIS  notified  the  establishment  in  writing  that  the  alternative 
frequency  is  inadequate  to  verify  the  effectiveness  of  process  control? 

4.  If  the  establishment  is  sampling  based  on  very  low  volume,  does  the 
volume  of  animals  slaughtered  meet  the  criteria  for  that  sampling  rate? 


C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• A swine  slaughtering  establishment  that  does  not  qualify  as  a very  low 
volume  plant  is  not  sampling  at  the  rate  of  1 per  1 ,000  slaughtered  or  a 
minimum  of  one  sample  each  week  of  operation. 

• A chicken  slaughtering  establishment  that  does  not  qualify  as  a very  low 
volume  plant  Is  not  sampling  at  the  rate  of  1 per  22,000  slaughtered  or  a 
minimum  of  one  sample  each  week  of  operation. 

• An  establishment  that  does  not  qualify  as  a very  low  volume  plant  is 
sampling  at  the  rate  specified  for  very  low  volume  rate  of  slaughter. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 

PART  IV  - Sample  Analysis 

A.  What  are  the  regulatory  requirements  for  sample  analysis? 

Paragraph  310.25(a)(1)(ii)  states:  Obtain  analytic  results  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  (a)(3)  of  this  section. 

Paragraph  (a)(3)  states:  Analysis  of  samples.  Laboratories  may  use  any 
quantitative  method  for  analysis  of  E.  coli  that  is  approved  as  an  AOAC  Official 
Method  of  the  AOAC  International  (formerly  the  Association  of  Official  Analytical 
Chemists)  or  approved  and  published  by  a scientific  body  and  based  on  the 
results  of  a collaborative  trial  conducted  in  accordance  with  an  internationally 
recognized  protocol  on  collaborative  trials  and  compared  against  the  three  tube 
Most  Probable  Number  (MPN)  method  and  agreeing  with  the  95  percent  upper 
and  lower  confidence  limit  of  the  appropriate  MPN  index. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  these  regulations? 

When  verifying  these  regulatory  requirements,  the  CSI  will  seek  an  answer  to 
the  following  question:  Is  the  laboratory  analyzing  the  samples  using  an  AOAC 
Official  Method  or  another  method  that  meets  the  criteria  in  paragraph  (a)(3)? 

C.  What  is  an  example  of  noncompliance? 

• The  laboratory  analyzing  the  samples  is  not  using  an  AOAC-approved 
method  to  obtain  analytic  results  of  the  E.  coli  samples. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


m-7 


PART  V - Recording  of  Test  Results 
A.  What  are  the  regulatory  requirements  for  recording  test  results? 


\ 


Paragraph  310.25(a)(1)(iii)  states:  Maintain  records  of  such  analytic  results  in 
accordance  with  paragraph  (a)(4)  of  this  section. 

Paragraph  (a)(4)  states:  Recording  of  test  results.  The  establishment  shall 
maintain  accurate  records  of  all  test  results,  in  terms  of  CFU/cm^  of  surface  area 
sponged  or  excised.  Results  shall  be  recorded  onto  a process  control  chart  or 
table  showing  at  least  the  most  recent  13  test  results,  by  type  of  livestock 
slaughtered.  Records  shall  be  retained  at  the  establishment  for  a period  of  12 
months  and  shall  be  made  available  to  FSIS  upon  request. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  this  regulation? 

When  verifying  these  requirements,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the 
following  questions: 

1 . Does  the  establishment’s  process  control  chart  or  table  show  at  least  the 
most  recent  13  E.  coll  results? 

2.  Does  the  establishment’s  process  control  chart  or  table  express  E.  coll  ( \ 

results  in  terms  of  CFU/cm^  of  surface  area  sponged  or  excised  by  type  of  ' 

livestock  slaughtered,  or  CFU/ml  of  fluid  by  type  of  poultry  slaughtered? 

3.  Is  the  establishment  retaining  records  of  test  results  for  12  months? 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment’s  process  control  chart  or  table  does  not  show  the  most 
recent  1 3 E.  coll  results. 

• The  establishment’s  process  control  chart  or  table  does  not  express  E.  coll 
results  In  CFU/cm^  of  surface  area  sponged  or  excised  by  type  of  livestock 
slaughtered,  or  CFU/ml  of  fluid  by  type  of  poultry  slaughtered. 

• The  establishment  is  not  retaining  records  of  test  results  for  12  months. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


III-8 


PART  VI  - Evaluation  of  Results 


A.  What  is  the  regulatory  table  for  the  evaluation  of  results? 


Table  1 - Evaluation  of  coli  Test  Result 


Type  of 
Livestock 

Lower  limit  of 
marginal  range 

Upper  limit  of 
marginal  range 

Number  of 
sample  tested 

Maximum 
number 
permitted  in 
marginal  range 

(m) 

(M) 

(n) 

(C) 

Cattle 

Negative 

100  CFUW 

13 

3 

Swine 

lOCTU/cn? 

lO.OOOCFUW 

13 

3 

* Chickens 

100  CFL/ml 

1,000  CFU/ml 

13 

3 

*Turkeys 

N.A." 

N.A. 

N.A. 

N.A. 

^ Not  available;  values  for  turkeys  will  be  added  upon  completion  of  data  collection  program  for  turkeys. 
* This  portion  of  the  Table  Iwas  extracted  from  Table  lof  § 381.94(a)(5). 


B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  this  regulation? 

If  an  establishment  is  sampling  for  E.  coli  by  excising  tissue,  CSIs  should 
verify  that  the  results  comply  with  the  table  above.  If  an  establishment  is 
sampling  for  E.  coli  by  sponging  carcasses,  CSIs  should  verify  that  the 
establishment  is  evaluating  the  test  results  using  statistical  process  control 
techniques.  The  CSI  should  verify  that  establishments  that  slaughter  turkeys 
evaluate  E.  co// test  results  using  statistical  process  control  techniques.  When 
verifying  these  regulatory  requirements,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the 
following  questions: 

1.  If  Table  1 does  not  include  applicable  m/M  criteria,  is  the  establishment 
using  statistical  process  control  techniques  to  determine  what  variation  in  test 
results  is  within  normal  limits? 

2.  If  Table  1 includes  applicable  m/M  criteria.  Is  the  establishment 
determining  whether  it  Is  operating  within  these  criteria? 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  noncompliance? 

• The  establishment  is  sponging  livestock  carcasses  and  is  not  using 
statistical  process  control  techniques  to  evaluate  E.  co// test  results. 

• The  establishment  slaughters  turkeys  and  is  not  using  statistical  process 
control  techniques  to  evaluate  E.  coli  test  results. 

CSIs  will  document  any  noncompliance  in  a manner  that  accords  with  Chapter 
IV  of  this  document. 


m-9 


CSOs 


PART  I --  Assessment  of  Establishment’s  E.  coli  Process? 

A.  What  are  the  CSOs  responsibilities? 

The  CSOs  should  assemble  and  review  the  following  information: 

1 . The  results  of  verification  procedures  conducted  by  the  CSIs. 

2.  The  written  E.  coli  procedures. 

3.  Justification  for  an  alternative  sampling  frequency,  if  applicable. 

4.  Laboratory  information  or  assurances  about  methodology. 

5.  Records  of  recent  test  results. 

The  CSO  may  also  verify  elements  of  sampling  procedures  by  observing 
establishment  employees  performing  them,  if  practicable.  The  CSO  should 
analyze  this  Information  and  determine  whether  there  is  compliance  with  9 CFR 
31 0.25(a)  (1 ) - (4)  or  381 .94{a)(1 ) - (4). 

If  there  has  been  a recent  verification  procedure  by  the  in-plant  team,  and  the 
results  from  this  verification  are  different  from  those  of  the  CSO,  the  CSO  should 
initiate  a meeting  to  resolve  these  differences.  The  CSOs  should  collect  test 
data  results  covering  at  least  60  days. 

The  CSO  should  review  these  data  against  the  evaluation  criteria,  which  may 
be  m/M  values  or  values  established  by  statistical  process  control.  If  any  of  the 
criteria  are  not  met,  the  CSO  is  to  conduct  further  data  collection  and  analysis  to 
determine  whether  the  Agency  needs  to  take  other  action  to  ensure  that  ail 
applicable  provisions  of  the  law  are  met. 

If  the  CSO  observes  that  the  evaluation  criteria  are  not  met  routinely,  the 
testing  records  should  be  supplemented  with  records  of  fecal  NRs  or  deviations 
from  the  zero  tolerance  critical  limit  for  the  same  time  period.  If  the  Agency  was 
sampling  and  testing  for  Salmonella  during  the  60-day  period,  the  CSO  should 
seek  those  results.  If  by  chance  the  establishment’s  product  was  sampled  and 
tested  for  E.  coli  0157M1  or  Implicated  in  a recall  during  the  same  60-day 
period,  the  CSO  should  seek  those  results  as  well. 


Ill- 10 


The  CSO  should  perform  statistical  tests  to  define  any  correlations  among  the 
assembled  data  sets.  If  there  are  no  significant  correlations,  the  CSO  need  not 
pursue  this  analysis  any  further.  If  there  are  significant  correlations,  the  CSO 
needs  to  analyze  them  to  determine  whether  regulatory  requirements  are  being 
met. 

Whether  the  data  sets  show  significant  correlations  or  not,  if  there  were 
NRs  for  fecal  contamination  or  deviations  from  fecal  critical  limits,  shortly  before 
or  during  the  60-day  period,  the  CSO  should  seek  the  corrective  action  records 
for  each  such  Instance  and  verify  them. 

The  CSO  may  want  to  discuss  the  generic  E.  co// testing  results  that  do  not 
meet  the  criteria  with  establishment  officials,  to  see  if  they  have  any  views  about 
what  might  have  caused  them,  and  anything  they  may  have  done  to  improve  the 
situation. 


m-11 


Salmonella  Performance  Standards 


PART  I - Salmonella  Set  Failures 

The  Salmonella  performance  standard  is  designed  to  verify  that  establishments 
are  controlling  pathogens  in  their  operation.  See  FSIS  Directive  10,011.1  for 
instructions  on  how  FSIS  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  do  sampling  for 
Salmonella.  The  following  discussion  explains  what  will  occur  If  an  establishment 
fails  a sample  set. 

A.  What  happens  if  there  is  an  A set  failure? 

The  DM  will  send  a letter  to  the  establishment  with  the  following  information: 

1 . The  set  completion  date  as  listed  on  the  PREP  report, 

2.  class  of  product, 

3.  sample  test  results  (e.g.,  number  of  samples  analyzed  and  number  of 
positive  samples), 

4.  a statement  that  the  establishment  needs  to  take  immediate  action  to  / '4 

meet  the  standard  in  accordance  with  sections  310.25(b)(3)(i)  or  381 .94(b)(3)(i)  " 

of  the  regulations, 

5.  a request  for  the  establishment  to  respond  to  the  SVMO/IIC  with  an 
explanation  as  to  why  it  believes  that  it  is  operating  in  full  compliance  with  the 
regulations  or  on  what  immediate  actions  it  intends  to  take. 

Within  30  days  of  the  date  of  the  DM’s  letter: 

1 . The  SVMO/IIC  will  document  the  establishment’s  response  to  the  DM’s 
letter  (i.e.,  corrective  actions  Identified  or  an  explanation  of  why  the 
establishment  believes  that  it  is  in  compliance).  The  SVMO/IIC  will  maintain  a 
copy  of  the  documentation  in  the  inspection  files. 

2.  The  Front-line  Supervisor  and  SVMO/IIC  will  conduct  and  document  an 
assessment  of  the  establishment’s  HACCP  and  Sanitation  SOP  procedures  and, 
where  applicable,  analyze  data  from  the  establishment’s  generic  E.  coll  testing, 
focusing  on  the  corrective  and  further  planned  actions  by  the  establishment.  The 
SVMO/IIC  will  maintain  a copy  in  the  inspection  files. 

3.  The  Front-line  Supervisor  and  SVMO/IIC  will  develop,  document,  and 

implement  a plan,  using  the  01  and  02  Sanitation  SOP  and  HACCP  procedure  / \ 

codes,  to  verify  any  corrective  actions  implemented  by  the  establishment  ^ 

(verification  plan).  The  SVMO/IIC  will  maintain  a copy  in  the  inspection  files. 


Ill- 12 


4.  After  the  SVMO/IIC  and  Front-line  Supervisor  have  completed  the  above 
documents,  as  needed,  the  Front-line  Supervisor  will  forward  them  to  the  DM. 

The  Front-line  Supervisor  and  SVMO/IIC  will  correlate  with  in-plant  inspection 
program  personnel  to  ensure  the  plan  is  understood  and  executed.  Based  on 
findings  of  the  verification  activities,  enforcement  actions,  if  warranted,  will  be 
taken  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  practice.  The  Front-line  Supervisor  will 
inform  the  DM  about  any  necessary  enforcement  action. 

The  Front-line  Supervisor,  SVMO/IIC,  and  in-plant  inspection  program 
personnel  will  consult  with  the  TSC  for  any  needed  assistance  in  data  analysis  or 
technical  questions  that  may  arise. 

The  DM  should  ensure  that  collection  of  samples  for  the  B set  begins 
immediately  after  an  establishment  has  completed  its  corrective  and  preventive 
actions  or  within  60  days  of  the  end  of  the  A set  unless  he  or  she  has  agreed  with 
the  establishment  that  more  time  is  needed  for  corrective  and  preventive  actions 
to  be  implemented.  The  DM,  in  communication  with  the  Front-line  Supervisor 
and  SVMO/IIC  should  make  sure  that  the  establishment  is  progressing  in  a timely 
manner  with  their  actions. 

B.  What  happens  if  there  is  a B set  failure? 

The  DM  will  send  a letter  to  the  establishment  with  the  specific  sample 
information  as  discussed  above.  The  letter  will  inform  the  establishment  that 
FSIS  expects  the  establishment  to  address  its  total  food  safety  program  by 
reassessing  its  FIACCP  plan  for  that  product  and  taking  the  appropriate 
corrective  and  preventive  actions  and  making  any  necessary  corrective  actions  In 
its  Sanitation  SOPs. 

The  DM,  in  consultation  with  the  Front-line  Supervisor,  SVMO/IIC,  and 
inspection  program  personnel,  will  determine  whether  the  establishment 
conducted  proper  reviews  of  its  total  food  safety  program,  including  a 
reassessment  as  defined  under  9 CFR  417.4(a)(3),  Reassessment  of  FIACCP 
plans,  and  any  necessary  evaluation  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  Sanitation  SOPs 
as  defined  in  9 CFR  416.14,  Maintenance  of  Sanitation  SOPs.  The  DM  will  issue 
an  NOIE  as  set  out  in  the  rules  of  practice  if  the  reassessment  is  not  performed. 

After  the  establishment  has  performed  a reassessment,  validated 
modifications  to  the  plan,  and  reevaluated  and  modified  as  appropriate  the 
Sanitation  SOPs,  the  DM  will  initiate  an  IDV  review,  as  set  out  in  FSIS  Directive 
5500.1  paragraph  X.  As  provided  for  in  FSIS  Directive  5500.1 , a CSO  will  be  a 
member  of  this  IDV  team.  The  DM  will  receive  the  report  developed  from  the  IDV, 
which  contains  the  team’s  findings.  The  DM’s  designee  will  analyze  the  findings 
and  make  recommendations  to  the  DM  about  how  to  proceed.  Also,  at  this  point 


III- 13 


for  grinding  establishments,  FSIS  may  decide  to  conduct  an  IDV  at  some  or  all  of 
the  establishment’s  suppliers. 

The  DM  will  make  one  of  the  following  decisions: 

1 . If  the  establishment’s  actions  addressing  its  total  food  safety  program  do 
not  meet  the  requirements  in  the  regulations,  based  on  the  analysis  and  the 
supporting  information,  the  DM  will  issue  an  NOIE. 

2.  If  the  establishment’s  actions  addressing  its  total  food  safety  program 
raise  concerns  regarding  the  establishment’s  design  and  execution  of  the 
program,  but  the  concerns  do  not  lead  to  a determination  that  there  are 
regulatory  noncompliances,  the  DM  will  send  a 30-day  reassessment  letter  that 
outlines  his  or  her  concerns.  The  30-day  reassessment  letter  will  ask  the 
establishment  to  produce  records  (9  CFR  417.5(a),  Records  and  9 CFR  416.16, 
Recordkeeping  Requirements)  that  address  the  concerns  identified  by  inspection 
program  personnel  In  the  letter. 

3.  If  the  establishment’s  actions  addressing  Its  total  food  safety  program  in 
response  to  the  IDV  meet  the  requirements  in  the  regulations,  or  if  in  response 
to  the  NOIE  or  the  30-day  reassessment  letter,  the  establishment  provides 
adequate  evidence  that  It  has  not  failed  to  meet  the  requirements  in  the 
regulations,  the  DM  will  schedule  a C set  to  verify  the  successful  operation  of 
the  establishment’s  total  food  safety  program. 

The  CSO  will  take  the  lead  In  developing  a verification  plan  to  be  used  by  in- 
plant  inspection  program  personnel  to  verify  all  modifications  made  by  the 
establishment  in  response  to  the  B set  failure  and,  if  warranted,  to  assess 
corrective  actions  and  further  planned  actions  provided  in  response  to  an 
enforcement  action.  The  CSO  will  send  a copy  of  the  verification  plan  to  the 
Front-line  Supervisor  and  DM  and  a copy  will  be  maintained  in  the  inspection 
files  at  the  establishment.  The  verification  plan  will  be  based  on  the  Sanitation 
SOP  and  HACCP  01  and  02  inspection  procedures. 

The  CSO,  Front-line  Supervisor,  SVMO/IIC,  and  In-plant  inspection  program 
personnel  will  correlate  to  ensure  the  plan  is  fully  understood  and  executed  as 
intended. 

The  Front-line  Supervisor  will  e-mail  a report  in  a Word  document  to  the  DM 
each  month  on  the  findings  of  the  verification  activities  until  the  establishment 
has  passed  the  next  Salmonella  sample  set. 

The  DM  should  ensure  that  collection  of  samples  for  the  C set  begins 
immediately  after  an  establishment  has  completed  its  corrective  and  preventive 
actions  or  within  90  days  of  the  end  of  the  B set  unless  he  or  she  has  agreed  with 
the  establishment  that  more  time  Is  needed  for  modifications  to  be  implemented. 


m-14 


The  DM,  in  communication  with  the  Front-line  Supervisor  and  SVMO/IIC  should 
make  sure  that  the  establishment  is  progressing  in  a timely  manner  with  their 
actions. 

C.  What  happens  if  there  is  a C set  failure? 

The  DM  will  send  a letter  to  the  establishment  with  the  specific  sample 
information,  as  discussed  above.  The  letter  will  inform  the  establishment  that 
FSIS  will  instruct  a CSO  and  a Compliance  Officer  to  conduct  a focused 
assessment  of  the  establishment’s  total  food  safety  program  to  investigate  the 
reasons  why,  in  light  of  previous  reassessments  and  corrective  actions,  the 
establishment  failed  a C set.  (NOTE:  For  slaughter  operations,  the  DM  will 
consult  with  Headquarters.) 

The  CSO  and  a Compliance  Officer  will  focus  their  assessment  on  the 
reassessments  and  corrective  and  preventive  actions  that  the  establishment  took 
after  the  B set  failure,  and  on  whether  there  is  a basis  in  accordance  with  the 
rules  of  practice  to  find  that  the  establishment’s  total  food  safety  program  is  not 
adequate.  The  CSO  and  the  Compliance  Officer  will  consult  with  the  SVMO/IIC 
and  the  Front-line  Supervisor.  If  the  establishment  requests,  the  CSO  and  the 
Compliance  Officer  will  meet  with  the  establishment  and  provide  It  with  an 
opportunity  to  present  evidence  as  to  why  it  believes  that  It  has  not  failed  to  meet 
the  requirements  in  the  regulations.  The  Compliance  Officer  will  begin  to 
develop  a case  file  for  an  enforcement  action  if  warranted.  This  file  should 
Include  any  information  presented  at  the  meeting  with  the  establishment.  Also,  at 
this  point  for  grinding  establishments,  FSIS  may  decide  to  conduct  an  IDV  at 
some  or  ail  of  the  establishment’s  suppliers. 

Based  on  findings  of  the  CSO  and  the  Compliance  Officer,  the  DM  and 
officials  from  headquarters  will  determine  what  actions  the  Agency  will  take, 
including  enforcement  actions,  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  practice. 

There  may  be  rare  instances  in  which,  based  on  the  CSO  and  Compliance 
Officer  findings,  the  DM  determines  that  the  establishment  should  conduct  an 
additional  reassessment.  In  such  cases,  the  DM  will  issue  a 30-day 
reassessment  letter,  and  program  personnel  will  conduct  in-plant  verifications 
and  follow-up  verification  testing  will  occur. 


tWycKit  Dif\pMV3  pafi  ni  Ml3 

K-rt  H ^ J ^ ni  Qnit^iQojri  81  tnrrnfiaJdtifee  sftt  )S4  f L'\v^  ^y^fjiv 

- -j  * vi.i* 

MA  ‘^.- 

^ vUxIM  io»  0 6 81  diMft  II  »fi  9qcicrf  h 1W  .0 


• ,.  - • I . 

^ ^\l  fipe  9(J|  dlhnf  inefitr^i^t^jae  rrU  qi  (ftw  MG  ■»ffT 

, 4^9  ' 9i(i  rnK^’fiiHirw  9ip  ,.'.iVo<^  e»  ,noi/cirbt^ 

b&^iOO^s  foub^br.  songjlqmo*'  s tnis  030  s lii  * 3l3~s 


.iljlw  Jlupon 

nri^  no  ir-ife^ne^fi  '»tt^-1i  O^cyi  1 <Vjnfiila  "ncO  s bnp  030  e?ilT 


/ iCT^joi 'fprl^iiriBi^e  '^mI'.ws  ivilTTev‘f»Kj  bns  evi^Tioo 

, 1 e i^ftlar^w  nb  f 6 eilJ  lerte 


9r  * r^JikV  i.  t 

10? 

311^1 


^r'R3  Exi  li||oi  «j*ln^'nf^8)ldat3r>'8ff5  JsriJ  bf^fl  a.>llo*?'>Q  4o*i.n 
of^*/J  dQi  ruiM  itu^»03  p ‘f*.vXi  ).xv^4<5^oQ  art;  p30  oriT  e?^u|p€  .ja 


bli.'ai^'&iil  aif n^,  tj  noLtOfc  JjftpfT^9bX>^  na  lot  ali^  asej  a qolevoh 

H .6e!A  !nem.*bilOFju^9ri;  i^iivy  gfUjSaro  ^(J  its  hetna^s'iq  noilsnT  O rii  yns  ebubru 
VQi  n«  Oubf’.ocLC?;  aJs,.''aL  3i§B^^ni3(rnrtia;l<teJ^  lo)  Iruc-^  airt; 


1^16  fvK7  an)  jnuaiK,  libaj  oo  aa6 


^ ^ ,9  '•  y;  y.5o<^/>  Ijprt^  aiaiioupSheart  jwtl  clslr 

' ^ .iPoM.vsho  b ^rtf  ^ljiw^px!^^opDp;,fH  ^W?^^  >6  t'lirs  ac  'rina.ynitt 


rDo 
UnitbiDni 


aonwiqmo  j e/tr  no  bfeart';r*oir4  nVs^  eit  eiQrft 

ne  JCJjbrk  - Muon<j  "ib.Vfrla!UJk^:fei&  ^/;^^Wifnn9)et>  MO  erii  ,ai;>nibnii  ^eo^fO 


^n-) 


. - yi^b“0£  nii^i  ll<vv  M0.9fp^8oa§iO  fk»u^  .lna^i8€^je*’s>^  tanaiirbjt  s 
<1eo^9v^t^^^-nl  toufefw'’^^  hru;  .le'irv 

' * 'iAibb  ^/^oea<.noi;i^hiev 


' Nii* 


‘ ' i.  . "» 

U ' X V),  ■ it  ..  '41AV«'lt«j<Mte 

: t>.!.r.  .,(U^  . gW»' 


fe‘-^typirg^-  I 


'*  W Off-  k'kJkM  0"  M>»i  : ^ Vt  ' .I'v 

,fi  .«*»•  < 

>i  0 


<i>f  nb4  i 1 2t 
- 1 rH  ^ 

' ■■  ifi  - ■ • J1S#  * ♦ ■ 4 ■■ 

."  ■■#-  - -.  ■ ^ . . 1 . * ■ 


ft.,)*,  k. 


; dm^ 

Jam 


CHAPTER  IV  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 
ENFORCEMENT 


TOPIC  PAGE 

CSIS  IV-1-15 

Part  I Instructions  for  FSIS  Form  5400-4  IV-1-3 

Part  II  Documenting  SPS  Non  Compliance  IV-4 

Lighting  Trend  Indicator  IV-4 

Structural  Trend  Indicator  IV-4 

Outside  Premises  Trend  Indicator  IV-5 

Product  Based  Trend  Indicator  IV-5 

Part  III  CSI  Documentation  Responsibilities 

For  Sanitation  SOP  Non  Compliance  IV-6 

Monitoring  Trend  Indicator  IV-6 

Corrective  Action  Trend  Indicator  IV-6-7 

Recordkeeping  Trend  Indicator  IV-7 

Implementation  Trend  Indicator  IV-7 

Part  IV  HACCP  Noncompliance  Determinations  IV-8-10 

Monitoring  Trend  Indicator  IV-1 1 

Verification  Trend  Indicator  IV-1 1 

Corrective  Action  Trend  Indicator  IV-1 1 

Recordkeeping  T rend  Indicator  IV-1 1-12 

Part  V E.  coli  Noncompliance  Determination  IV-1 2-1 3 

Part  VI  Linking  NRs  IV-1 3-1 5 


CSOs 


IV-16-17 


Part  I Instructions  for  FSIS  Form  5000-8 

IV-16-17 

Rules  of  Practice 

IV-18-25 

Part  I Enforcement  Actions 

IV-18 

Part  II  Regulatory  Control  Actions 

IV-18-20 

Part  III  Withholding  Actions  and  Suspensions 

IV-20-22 

Part  IV  Notification 

IV-22-25 

Part  V Abeyance 


IV-25 


CHAPTER  IV  - ENFORCEMENT 


CSIs 


PART  I - FSIS  Form  5400-4,  Noncompliance  Record  (NR) 

Noncompliance  Records  (NR)  are  the  forms  completed  by  inspection  program 
personnel  and  issued  to  the  establishment  when  there  is  a failure  to  comply  with 
regulatory  requirements.  The  following  discussion  explains  how  to  complete  an 
NR. 

A.  How  are  the  blocks  on  the  NR  and  NR  Continuation  Sheet  completed 
in  the  PBIS  Electronic  format  or  in  instances  when  the  electronic  format  is 
not  accessible,  on  the  paper  FSIS  Forms  5400-4  and  5400-4a? 

Type  of  noncompliance 

Food  Safety  Other  Consumer  Protections 

Any  01  - SSOP  Any  04  - EconomicA/Vholesomeness 

Any  03  - HACCP  05B01  - Economic  Sampling-  Scheduled 

06D01  - Sanitation  Performance  06D02  - Inspection  Requirements 
Standards 

05A01  - micro,  sampling  for  E.  coli 
05A02  - micro,  sampling  for  E.  coli 
05A03  - micro,  sampling  for  Salmonella 
05B02  - Directed  sampling 
05C01  - Residue 

BLOCK  # 


1 . Date--Enter  the  date  noncompliance  occurred.  The  date  can  be 
entered  numerically,  e.g.,  1-29-02. 

2.  Record  No.-Number  the  NRs  completed  In  a giyen  establishment 
sequentially,  by  year  (i.e.,  1-02,  2-02,  3-02,  etc.,  for  the  paper  forms  regardless  of 
who  completes  the  NR). 

3.  Est.  No. -Enter  as  a 5-digit  number  followed  by  a red  meat  or  poultry 
designator  and  the  shift  number  (e.g.,  00345  M/2). 

4.  To  (Name  and  Title)-Enter  the  name  and  title  of  the  responsible 
establishment  official.  For  a HACCP  system  noncompliance,  always  enter  the 
name  of  the  person  who  signed  the  HACCP  plan.  For  a Sanitation  SOP 
regulation  noncompliance,  always  enter  the  name  of  the  person  who  signed  the 


Sanitation  SOPs.  For  SPS  noncompliance,  the  CSI  should  enter  the  name  of  the 
establishment  official  responsible  for  responding  to  the  NRs. 

5.  Personnel  Notified-EnXer  the  name  of  the  establishment 
management  personnel  who  was/were  notified  about  the  noncompliance. 

6.  Relevant  Regulations-CWe  the  specific  regulatory  requirements  that 
the  establishment  did  not  meet.  For  example,  if  the  establishment  did  not  take 
corrective  action  in  response  to  a deviation  from  a critical  limit,  then  417.3  (a) 
would  be  entered. 

7.  Relevant  Section/Page  of  Establishment  Procedure/Plan — Enter 
the  section  or  page  of  the  establishment’s  procedure  or  plan  when  the 
noncompliance  represents  the  failure  to  comply  with  the  written  provisions  of 
their  procedure  or  plan.  For  example,  if  the  monitoring  frequency  listed  in  the 
HACCP  plan  is  hourly,  and  the  establishment  performs  the  procedure  every  two 
hours,  there  is  monitoring  noncompliance.  Inspection  program  personnel  record 
the  section  or  page  of  the  HACCP  plan  that  lists  the  monitoring  frequency.  Place 
an  “X”  in  the  appropriate  box  to  reference  the  type  of  procedure  or  plan.  E.  coli 
and  alternate  processing  procedure  noncompliance  are  considered  “other.” 

When  the  noncompliance  Is  not  related  to  a procedure  or  plan,  enter  N/A. 

8.  ISP  Code--Enter  the  code  of  the  procedure  performed  (refer  to:  FSIS 
Directive  5400.5;  Attachment  6,  Inspection  System  Procedure  Guide  for  a listing 
of  codes). 

9.  Noncompliance  Classification  lndicators--Mark  the  classification 
trend  indicator  that  best  describes  the  noncompliance.  This  should  be  the  same 
classification  trend  indicator  that  is  circled  when  inspection  program  personnel 
complete  the  related  FSIS  Form  5400-2;  Procedure  Schedule.  For  basic 
compliance  procedures  (01A01, 03A01,  and  05A01),  no  trend  Indicator  is 
marked. 

10.  Description  of  Noncompliance — Describe  each  noncompliance  in 
clear,  concise  terms.  Including  the  exact  problem,  its  location,  and  the  effect  on 
product.  For  example,  if  the  CSI  observes  condensation  dripping  from  the  ceiling 
onto  exposed  product,  the  description  should  include  the  area  of  the  plant  where 
the  observation  was  made,  what  type  of  product  was  being  contaminated,  and 
the  action  taken.  If  there  is  a trend  of  noncompliance  developing,  and  the  current 
NR  is  linked  to  previous  NRs,  the  CSI  should  list  the  previous  NRs  with  the 
similar  noncompliance  from  the  same  cause.  The  NR  should  state  what 
corrective  actions  were  proposed,  and  that  these  actions  were  ineffective  or  not 
implemented.  If  this  developing  trend  has  been  discussed  with  establishment 
management,  this  information  should  also  be  documented  in  this  block.  If  more 
space  is  needed  to  describe  the  noncompliance,  use  a NR  Continuation  Sheet. 


IV-2 


11.  Signature  of  Inspection  Program  Employee-The  IIC  or  CSI  signs 
the  NR  after  blocks  1 through  10  have  been  completed. 

12  & 13.  Plant  Management  Response--The  "immediate  action"  and 
"further  planned  action”  blocks  should  be  completed.  When  the  establishment 
elects  to  respond,  the  “immediate  action”  is  the  action  the  establishment  is  taking 
to  correct  the  noncompliance  including  appropriate  product  disposition.  The 
“further  planned  action”  is  the  action  to  prevent  recurrence.  Inspection  program 
personnel  should  document  an  oral  response  by  the  plant  management. 

14  & 15.  Signature  of  Plant  Management  and  Date-lf  establishment 
management  responds  in  writing  on  block  12  or  block  13,  an  establishment 
official  should  sign  and  date  the  NR. 

16  & 17.  Verification  Signature  of  inspection  Program  Empioyee 
and  Date  -The  IIC  or  CSI  signs  after  inspection  program  personnel  have  verified 
the  establishment  has  brought  itself  into  compliance  with  the  regulatory 
requirement  that  resulted  in  the  issuance  of  the  NR  and  if  necessary  the  NR 
Continuation  Sheet. 

B.  How  can  FSIS  personnel  write  a good  NR? 

• Clearly  and  concisely  identify  each  noncompliance.  Be  descriptive, 
specific  and  thorough,  including  time  and  location. 

• Explain  that  the  establishment  management  has  received  adequate  oral 
and  written  notification. 

• Include: 

- The  inspection  findings, 

- Any  previous  corrective  actions  that  were  unsuccessful,  and 

- Any  applicable  deadlines. 

• Set  out  the  establishment  response  to  previous  notification. 

• If  a regulatory  control  action  is  taken,  reflect  the  use. 

C.  How  Is  the  continuation  sheet  completed? 

In  addition  to  the  NR,  there  is  a Continuation  Sheet,  FSIS  Form  5400-4a,  that 
is  used  only  when  the  inspection  program  personnel  need  extra  space,  or  when 
multiple  Inspection  program  personnel  conduct  verification  of  pre-operational 
sanitation  inspection  procedures  in  elements  01 B and  01 C.  When  using  the  NR 


IV-3 


Continuation  Sheet  for  extra  space,  inspection  program  personnel  can  just  check 
the  box  next  to  the  word  “Attachment”  in  the  top  right  corner  of  the  sheet,  and 
complete  blocks  1-3,10,11  and  12. 

PART  II  --  Documentation  of  SPS  Noncompliance 

A.  What  are  the  generai  procedures  for  documenting  the  SPS  verification 
activities? 

The  CSI  performs  ISP  procedure  06D01  to  verify  compliance  with  the  SPS 
regulations.  Noncompliance  is  the  failure  of  an  establishment  to  meet  one  or 
more  regulatory  requirements.  Every  time  the  CSI  finds  that  the  establishment  is 
not  meeting  the  SPS  requirements,  he  or  she  should  document  the 
noncompliance  on  an  NR.  If  the  noncompliance  is  failure  by  the  establishment  to 
comply  with  the  SPS,  the  Food  Safety  block  is  checked  on  the  NR. 

There  are  four  trend  indicators  associated  with  procedure  06D01 . Those 
trend  indicators  are  lighting,  structural,  outside  premises,  and  product  based. 
Only  one  of  these  trend  indicators  can  be  used  for  each  NR  issued.  If  more  than 
one  trend  indicator  applies,  the  CSI  should  use  the  most  appropriate  one  to 
describe  the  noncompliance.  If  the  determination  has  been  made  that  there  is 
regulatory  noncompliance,  the  CSI  should  include  the  regulation  citation  in 
Block  6 of  the  NR. 

B.  When  is  the  lighting  trend  indicator  used? 

The  lighting  trend  indicator  is  used  when  there  is  noncompliance  with  lighting 
requirements.  If  inadequate  light  causes  the  quality  or  intensity  of  lighting  to  be 
inadequate  to  determine  whether  the  products  are  being  processed,  handled, 
stored,  or  examined  under  sanitary  conditions,  and  thus  whether  the  product  is 
not  adulterated,  the  lighting  trend  indicator  should  be  marked  on  the  NR  (see 
Chapter  I,  Part  IV). 

NOTE:  The  CSI  should  realize  that  there  might  be  less  than  perfect  situations 
that  do  not  constitute  noncompliance.  If  one  light  is  inoperable,  but  its  absence 
does  not  cause  the  intensity  or  quality  of  the  lighting  to  be  inadequate  to 
determine  whether  the  products  are  being  processed,  handled,  stored,  or 
examined  under  sanitary  conditions,  and  thus  whether  the  product  is  not 
adulterated,  there  is  no  noncompliance. 

C.  When  is  the  structural  trend  indicator  used? 

The  structural  trend  Indicator  is  used  when  structural  regulatory  requirements 
are  not  met.  The  CSI  should  use  the  structural  trend  indicator  when  structural 
noncompliances  are  observed,  such  as  holes  in  the  wall,  cracks  or  holes  in  the 


IV-4 


floor,  or  condensation  on  overheads  that  create  insanitary  conditions  or  could 
result  In  product  adulteration  (see  Chapter  I,  Part  III). 

D.  When  is  the  outside  premises  trend  indicator  used? 

The  outside  premises  trend  indicator  is  used  when  the  CSI  finds  that  the 
regulatory  requirements  for  outside  premises  are  not  met.  For  example,  the  CSI 
should  use  the  outside  premises  trend  indicator  when  he  or  she  observes  an 
accumulation  of  trash  or  rubbish  outside  the  establishment  that  permits 
harborage  and  breeding  of  pests  (see  Chapter  I,  Part  II). 

E.  When  is  the  product  based  trend  indicator  used? 

The  product  based  trend  indicator  is  used  when  there  is  noncompliance 
involving  product  that  does  not  result  in  misbranding,  mislabeling,  or  direct 
product  contamination  that  is  covered  by  the  Sanitation  SOPs.  For  example,  the 
CSI  observes  product  from  the  previous  day’s  production  on  a wall  before  the 
start  of  operations  that  creates  an  Insanitary  condition,  he  or  she  should  use  the 
product  based  trend  indicator  (see  Chapter  I,  Part  XII). 

F.  What  actions  should  be  taken  when  noncompliance  with  the  SPS 
regulations  is  observed? 

If  an  establishment  has  not  complied  with  a sanitation  performance  standard, 
and  product  is  not  directly  contaminated,  CSIs  need  to  determine  whether  the 
noncompliance  requires  a regulatory  control  action  to  prevent  contamination  or 
adulteration  of  product. 

1 . If  there  is  an  imminent  probability  that  the  noncompliance  will  result  in 
product  adulteration  If  not  addressed  immediately,  CSIs  will  take  a regulatory 
control  action  such  as  tagging  product  or  rejecting  equipment  and  complete  a 
NR. 


2.  If  the  noncompliance  does  not  need  immediate  attention,  CSIs  are  to 
notify  the  establishment  management  of  the  noncompliance  and  document  the 
finding  on  a NR. 

If  an  establishment  has  not  complied  with  a sanitation  performance  standard, 
and  product  is  directly  contaminated,  CSIs  will  verify  that  the  establishment 
addresses  the  noncompliance  by  meeting  the  requirements  of 
9 CFR  416  or  9 CFR  417  as  described  below.  CSIs  will  write  an  NR  using  the 
appropriate  01  (Sanitation  SOP)  or  03  (HACCP)  ISP  procedure  code. 

1 . If  direct  product  contamination  occurs,  CSIs  will  verify  that  the 
establishment  implements  corrective  actions,  including  product  control  actions, 
that  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  416.15.  The  establishment  may  need  to  re- 


IV-5 


evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  its  Sanitation  SOPs  and  modify  them  if  they  are  no 
longer  effective  in  preventing  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product. 

2.  If  the  direct  product  contamination  poses  a food  safety  hazard,  CSIs  will 
verify  that  the  establishment  implements  corrective  actions,  including  product 
control  actions,  that  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3(b).  These  corrective 
actions  include  a reassessment  to  determine  whether  the  unforeseen  hazard 
should  be  Incorporated  into  the  HACCP  plan. 

PART  III  --  Documentation  of  Sanitation  SOP  Noncompliance 

A.  What  do  CSIs  document? 

The  CSI  performs  the  Sanitation  SOP  verification  procedures  to  verify  that  the 
establishment  is  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  416.12  -416.16. 
When  the  CSI  determines  that  the  establishment  does  not  meet  one  of  these 
regulatory  requirements,  he  or  she  should  document  the  noncompliance  on  an 
NR,  marking  the  most  appropriate  trend  indicator  and  the  food  safety  box. 

The  four  trend  Indicators  for  Sanitation  SOP  are: 

1.  monitoring, 

2.  implementation, 

3.  recordkeeping,  and 

4.  corrective  actions. 

NOTE:  Only  one  trend  indicator  should  be  used  for  each  NR  issued. 

B.  When  is  the  monitoring  trend  indicator  used? 

The  CSI  should  mark  the  monitoring  trend  indicator  on  the  NR  when  he  or  she 
determines  that  the  plant  fails  to  monitor  Its  pre-operational  or  operational 
sanitation  procedures  daily  or  at  the  frequency  specified  in  the  Sanitation  SOP. 
When  the  CSI  observes  contaminated  product  or  contaminated  direct  contact 
surfaces  that  the  establishment  monitoring  did  not  detect,  the  monitoring  trend 
indicator  is  used  (see  Chapter  I,  Part  XIV). 

C.  When  is  the  corrective  action  trend  indicator  used? 

The  CSI  should  mark  the  corrective  action  trend  indicator  when  the 
establishment  does  not  meet  the  corrective  action  requirements.  This  trend 
indicator  should  be  marked  on  the  NR  when  the  establishment  does  not  take 
corrective  actions  to  meet  the  requirements  in  9 CFR  416.15.  This  trend 


IV-6 


indicator  should  be  used  when  FSIS  determines  that  the  corrective  actions  taken 
are  not  adequate  to  restore  sanitary  conditions.  It  would  be  the  appropriate  trend 
indicator  to  use  if  the  establishment  did  not  implement  measures  adequate  to 
prevent  recurrence.  If  the  establishment  did  not  implement  corrective  action  to 
ensure  appropriate  disposition  of  contaminated  product,  this  would  be  the 
appropriate  trend  indicator  (see  Chapter  I,  Part  XVI). 

D.  When  is  the  recordkeeping  trend  indicator  used? 

The  CSI  should  use  the  recordkeeping  trend  indicator  when  there  is 
noncompliance  with  9 CFR  416.16.  This  trend  indicator  would  be  marked  when 
the  records  are  not  being  maintained  daily  or  retained  for  the  required  period  of 
time,  or  the  plan  fails  to  record  the  results  of  the  monitoring  check.  This  is  the 
appropriate  trend  indicator  to  use  when  the  establishment  is  not  documenting  the 
corrective  actions  taken  when  FSIS  or  the  establishment  determines  the 
Sanitation  SOP  did  not  prevent  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of  product. 
This  trend  indicator  would  also  be  marked  on  the  NR  when  the  records  have  not 
been  initialed  and  dated  (see  Chapter  I,  XVII). 

E.  When  is  the  implementation  trend  indicator  used? 

The  CSI  uses  the  Implementation  trend  Indicator  when  he  or  she  finds  two 
regulatory  requirements  that  have  not  been  met  during  the  performance  of  one 
procedure.  For  example.  If  the  CSI  Is  performing  the  01C02  procedure  and  finds 
that  the  establishment  is  not  monitoring  the  operational  procedures  at  the  stated 
frequency  and  did  not  initial  and  date  the  daily  sanitation  records,  the  appropriate 
trend  Indicator  to  use  Is  implementation. 

F.  What  actions  do  CSIs  take  when  noncompliance  with  the  Sanitation 
SOPs  is  observed? 

When  the  CSI  is  performing  the  01B02  or  01C02  Sanitation  SOP  procedure 
and  observes  direct  contact  surfaces  or  product  that  is  contaminated,  he  or  she 
should  take  a regulatory  control  action  on  the  equipment  or  product.  He  or  she 
should  not  remove  the  regulatory  control  action  until  the  establishment  has 
proposed  corrective  actions  that  1)  ensure  appropriate  disposition  of  products,  2) 
restore  sanitary  conditions,  and  3)  prevent  recurrence  of  direct  contamination  or 
adulteration  of  products.  The  CSI  documents  the  noncompliance  on  the  NR.  If 
the  CSI  is  performing  the  01B01  or  01C01  Sanitation  SOP  procedure  and 
observes  that  the  establishment  official  responsible  for  the  implementation  and 
monitoring  of  the  Sanitation  SOP  did  not  initial  and  date  the  record,  the  CSI 
documents  the  noncompliance  on  the  NR,  although  no  regulatory  control  action 
would  be  required. 

NOTE:  If  the  establishment  has  found  the  noncompliance  and  taken  the 
corrective  actions  required,  there  Is  no  noncompliance.  The  CSI  should  verify 


IV-7 


that  the  establishment  is  implementing  the  corrective  actions  specified  in  9 CFR 
416.15  when  the  establishment  finds  direct  contamination  or  adulteration  of 
products  or  contact  surfaces.  If  the  establishment  finds  that  the  responsible 
individual  did  not  initial  and  date  the  record  and  implemented  immediate  and 
further  planned  actions  and  records  these  actions,  the  CSI  should  not  document 
this  as  noncompliance. 

G.  What  actions  do  CSIs  take  when  noncompliance  is  found  with  both 
SPS  and  Sanitation  SOP  regulatory  requirements? 

If  the  CSI  is  performing  one  of  the  sanitation  procedures  (06D01, 01B02, 
01C02)  and  observes  noncompliance  with  the  SPS  and  Sanitation  SOP 
regulatory  requirements,  all  of  the  findings  would  be  documented  under  the 
appropriate  Sanitation  SOP  procedure.  If  the  CSI  is  performing  the  01B02  or 
01C02  procedure  and  only  observes  noncompliance  with  the  SPS  regulations,  he 
or  she  should  document  the  Sanitation  SOP  procedure  as  performed  on  the 
Procedure  Schedule,  and  issue  a NR  under  the  06D01  procedure.  If  the  CSI  is 
performing  the  06D01  procedure  and  only  observes  Sanitation  SOP 
noncompliance,  he  or  she  should  document  the  06D01  procedure  as  performed 
and  issue  a NR  for  the  Sanitation  SOP  noncompliance  using  the  appropriate 
procedure  (01B02  or01C02). 

PART  IV  --  HACCP  Noncompliance  Determinations 

A.  What  is  the  difference  between  a deviation  from  a critical  limit  and 
HACCP  noncompliance? 

A deviation  from  a critical  limit  is  the  failure  to  meet  the  applicable  value 
determined  by  the  establishment  for  a CCP.  If  a deviation  from  a critical  limit 
occurs,  an  establishment  is  required  to  take  actions  in  accordance  with  9 CFR 
417.3. 

A HACCP  noncompliance  is  the  failure  to  meet  any  of  the  regulatory 
requirements  of  9 CFR  part  417,  monitoring,  verification,  recordkeeping, 
reassessment,  and  corrective  action.  If  a HACCP  noncompliance  occurs,  an 
establishment  is  expected  to  take  immediate  and  further  planned  actions  to 
correct  the  noncompliance. 

B.  What  should  CSIs  consider  before  making  a noncompliance 
determination? 

Before  making  a determination  that  there  has  been  noncompliance,  consider 
the  following  questions: 

1 . Has  the  establishment  already  identified  the  failure  to  meet  the  regulatory 
requirements  or  deviations  from  critical  limits? 


IV-8 


2.  If  product  is  involved,  has  the  establishment  ensured  product 
safety? 

3.  Has  the  establishment  taken  Immediate  and  further  planned  actions  to 
correct  the  failure  to  meet  regulatory  requirements,  or  has  It  taken  the  9 CFR 
417.3  corrective  and  preventive  measures  to  address  the  deviations? 

4.  Is  a trend  developing  (i.e.,  has  the  establishment  repetitively  carried  out 
the  actions  in  1 through  3 above  for  similar  situations)? 

NOTE:  In  answering  these  questions,  it  may  be  necessary  to  consider  additional 
records. 

If  the  answer  Is  no  to  questions  1 , 2,  or  3,  or  yes  to  question  4,  then  a 
noncompliance  exists.  CSIs  will  write  an  NR  and  perform  a HACCP  02 
procedure. 

If  the  answer  is  yes  to  1 through  3 and  no  to  question  4,  then  there  Is  no 
noncompliance  because  the  establishment  has  already  Identified  and  addressed 
the  situation.  The  HACCP  01  should  be  considered  performed,  and  no  other 
action  Is  necessary.  Because  the  establishment’s  response  provides  the  further 
planned  actions  and  preventive  measures  for  the  noncompliance  or  deviation, 
not  writing  an  NR  does  not  adversely  affect  an  Inspection  program  employee’s 
ability  to  track  developing  trends.  However,  an  establishment’s  failure  to  follow 
through  on  further  planned  actions  and  preventive  measures  could  lead  to 
recurring  noncompliances  and  would  warrant  NRs  in  recurring  situations. 

C.  What  are  some  situations  that  CSIs  may  encounter  that  will  require  a 
determination  as  to  whether  there  is  a noncompliance? 

NOTE:  For  purposes  of  consistency,  all  the  examples  below  use  a monitoring 
example.  The  methodology  applies  to  problems  with  verification,  recordkeeping, 
reassessment  and  corrective  actions  as  well. 

EXAMPLE  1;  While  performing  the  HACCP  01  procedure  records  review,  an 
inspector  finds  that  an  establishment  employee  missed  a 9:00  a.m.  monitoring 
check.  The  inspector  then  finds  that  the  establishment  found  the  error  during  its 
records  verification,  demonstrated  product  safety  with  other  records,  and  took 
Immediate  corrective  and  preventive  measures  for  the  noncompliance  by  re- 
training the  employee.  Also,  the  inspector  looked  at  previous  NRs  and 
determined  that  the  establishment  had  not  missed  a monitoring  check  in  over 
three  months.  In  this  situation  no  NR  Is  necessary  even  though  there  was  a 
missed  monitoring  check,  and  the  HACCP  01  procedure  is  marked  as  performed. 
However,  if  the  inspector  finds  that  adequate  preventive  measures  were  not  in 
place,  and  that  the  missed  monitoring  check  and  correction  had  occurred  several 
times  within  the  month,  he  or  she  may  determine  that  a trend  for  monitoring 


IV-9 


noncompliance  has  developed.  In  this  case  he  or  she  will  issue  an  NR  and 
discuss  this  trend  with  establishment  management  during  the  weekly  meeting. 


EXAMPLE  2:  While  performing  the  HACCP  01  procedure  records  review,  an 
inspector  finds  that  an  establishment  employee  missed  a 9:00  a.m.  monitoring 
check  and  finds  no  indication  that  the  establishment  identified  the  missed 
monitoring  check.  He  or  she  writes  an  NR  for  the  HACCP  01  procedure.  Then 
he  or  she  performs  a HACCP  02  procedure  and  finds  that  the  product  was 
shipped  without  a pre-shipment  review.  In  this  situation  the  inspector  writes  an 
NR  that  explains  this  noncompliance.  Next  he  or  she  determines  whether  the 
establishment  can  provide  other  documentation  that  establishes  product  safety.  If 
the  establishment  cannot  demonstrate  product  safety,  the  inspector  would  take 
action  under  the  Rules  of  Practice,  9 CFR  part  500. 

EXAMPLE  3:  While  performing  the  HACCP  01  procedure  records  review,  an 
inspector  observes  that  an  establishment  employee  recorded  a deviation  from  a 
critical  limit  on  the  monitoring  record.  The  inspector  verifies  that  the  corrective 
actions  taken  by  the  establishment  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3(a). 
There  is  no  regulatory  noncompliance,  and  an  NR  is  not  necessary. 

EXAMPLE  4:  While  performing  the  HACCP  02  procedure  records  review  for  a 
single  lot  of  product,  an  inspector  sees  in  the  records  that  an  establishment 
employee  missed  a monitoring  check  at  10:00  a.m.  and  had  a deviation  from  a 
critical  limit  at  1 1 :00  a.m.  The  Inspector  continues  to  review  the  records  and 
finds  that  at  pre-shipment  review  the  establishment  identified  the  deviation  and 
took  the  proper  9 CFR  417.3  corrective  and  preventive  measures  but  failed  to 
address  the  monitoring  error.  In  this  situation  the  inspector  writes  an  NR  for  the 
monitoring  error  and  determines  whether  the  establishment  can  demonstrate 
product  safety  relevant  to  the  missed  monitoring  check.  If  so,  no  other  action  is 
necessary.  If  the  establishment  cannot  support  product  safety,  the  inspector 
should  take  action  In  accordance  with  the  Rules  of  Practice,  9 CFR  part  500. 

D.  How  do  CSIs  document  a HACCP  noncompliance? 

The  CSI  performs  the  HACCP  verification  procedures  to  verify  that  the 
establishment  is  meeting  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.2  - 417.7. 
The  five  requirements  that  the  CSI  verifies  when  performing  these  procedures 
are  monitoring,  verification,  corrective  actions,  recordkeeping,  and 
reassessment.  When  the  CSI  performs  one  of  the  HACCP  procedures  and 
determines  that  there  is  regulatory  compliance,  he  or  she  documents  that  the 
procedure  is  performed  on  the  procedure  schedule.  When  the  CSI  determines 
that  the  establishment  does  not  meet  one  of  the  regulatory  requirements,  he  or 
she  documents  the  noncompliance  on  an  NR,  marking  the  appropriate  trend 
indicator.  The  four  trend  Indicators  for  HACCP  are  monitoring,  corrective  action, 
recordkeeping,  and  establishment  verification.  Only  one  trend  indicator  should 
be  used  for  each  NR  issued. 


IV-10 


E.  When  do  CSIs  use  the  monitoring  trend  indicator? 

A CSI  should  use  the  monitoring  trend  indicator  when  he  or  she  determines 
that  there  is  noncompliance  with  the  monitoring  requirement.  This  trend  indicator 
should  be  marked:  1)  if  the  CSI  determines  the  establishment  is  not  monitoring 
the  critical  limit  at  the  frequency  stated  in  the  HACCP  plan;  2)  if  the  CSI 
determines  the  establishment  is  not  monitoring  the  critical  limit  using  the 
procedures  described  in  the  HACCP  plan;  or  3)  If  the  CSI  finds  a deviation  from 
the  critical  limit  that  the  establishment  has  no  way  of  detecting  (see  Chapter  II, 
Part  III). 

F.  When  do  CSIs  use  the  verification  trend  indicator? 

The  CSI  should  use  the  establishment  verification  trend  indicator  when:  1)  the 
establishment  is  not  conducting  the  verification  activities  as  described  in  the 
HACCP  plan,  or  2)  the  establishment  Is  not  conducting  the  verification  activities 
at  the  frequencies  described  in  the  HACCP  plan  (see  Chapter  I,  Part  IV). 

G.  When  do  CSIs  use  the  corrective  action  trend  indicator? 

The  corrective  action  trend  indicator  should  be  used  when  a deviation  or  an 
unforeseen  hazard  occurs,  and  the  corrective  action  taken  by  the  establishment 
does  not  meet  the  regulatory  requirements.  The  CSI  should  use  the  corrective 
action  trend  indicator  if  the  corrective  actions  taken  in  response  to  a deviation 
from  a critical  limit  did  not:  1 ) appropriately  address  identifying  and  eliminating 
the  cause  of  the  deviation;  2)  include  measures  to  ensure  that  the  CCP  is  under 
control;  3)  include  measures  to  prevent  the  deviation  or  unforeseen  hazard  from 
recurring;  or  4)  Include  appropriate  disposition  of  the  product  (see  Chapter  I,  Part 
VI). 

NOTE:  For  this  trend  indicator,  the  CSI  is  only  to  document  an  establishment’s 
failure  to  meet  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3.  If  the  establishment  finds  the 
deviation  or  unforeseen  hazard  and  takes  the  corrective  action  necessary  to 
meet  the  regulatory  requirements,  there  is  no  noncompliance. 

H.  When  do  CSIs  use  the  recordkeeping  trend  indicator? 

The  CSI  should  use  the  recordkeeping  trend  indicator  when:  1)  The 
monitoring  records  do  not  include  the  actual  times,  temperatures,  or  other 
quantifiable  values,  the  calibration  of  process-monitoring  instruments,  corrective 
actions,  verification  procedures  and  results,  product  identity,  signature  or  initials 
of  the  person  making  the  entry,  or  the  date  the  record  is  made;  2)  the 
establishment  does  not  have  the  decisionmaking  documents  associated  with  the 
selection  and  development  of  the  CCPs  and  critical  limits,  and  documents 


IV-11 


supporting  both  the  monitoring  and  verification  procedures  and  frequencies;  3) 
the  establishment  did  not  conduct  pre-shipment  review;  or  4)  the  establishment  is 
not  retaining  HACCP  records  for  the  required  length  of  time  (see  Chapter  I, 

Part  V). 

PART  V « E.  coli  Noncompliance  Determination 
A.  How  do  the  CSIs  determine  noncompliance? 

When  the  CSI  performs  the  05A02  procedure  (see  Chapter  III), 
noncompliance  exists  if  he  or  she  determines  that: 

1 . The  establishment  is  not  collecting  samples  from  the  type  of  livestock  or 
poultry  that  it  slaughters  In  the  greatest  number. 

2.  The  establishment  is  not  collecting  samples  at  the  location  in  the  slaughter 
process  required  by  the  regulations. 

3.  The  establishment  is  not  collecting  samples  by  sponging  or  excising  tissue 
from  the  required  sites  on  a livestock  carcass,  whole-bird  rinsing  or  sponging  on 
the  required  sites  of  a turkey  carcass  or  whole-bird  rinsing  chickens. 

4.  The  establishment  is  not  collecting  samples  at  the  required  frequency. 

5.  The  establishment  Is  not  sampling  randomly  as  per  its  written  procedure. 

6.  The  establishment  is  not  having  the  samples  analyzed  at  a laboratory 
using  an  AOAC  Official  Method  or  another  method  that  has  been  approved  and 
published  by  a scientific  body. 

7.  The  establishment’s  records  of  test  results  do  not  include  at  least  the  most 
recent  thirteen  test  results. 

8.  The  establishment’s  records  do  not  express  E.  co// test  results  in  terms  of 
colony  forming  units  per  square  centimeter  when  excision  tests  are  used  for 
cattle  and  swine  or  sponge  tests  are  used  for  cattle,  swine,  or  turkeys;  or  test 
results  are  not  expressed  in  colony  forming  units  per  milliliter  when  the  whole  bird 
rinse  method  is  used. 

9.  The  establishment  is  not  retaining  records  of  test  results  for  twelve 
months. 

10.  Table  1 in  the  regulations  does  not  include  applicable  m/M  criteria,  and 
the  establishment  is  not  using  a statistical  process  control  technique  to  determine 
how  much  variation  In  test  results  is  within  normal  limits. 


IV-12 


11.  Table  1 in  the  regulations  includes  applicable  m/M  criteria,  and  the 
establishment  is  not  determining  whether  it  is  operating  within  these  criteria. 

B.  How  will  the  CSI  document  findings? 

When  the  CSI  makes  the  determination  that  one  or  more  of  the  above 
requirements  are  not  met,  the  CSI  should  document  the  noncompliance  on  an 
NR.  The  “other”  trend  indicator  is  always  used  with  the  05A02  procedure. 

PART  VI  - Linking  NRs 

A.  When  should  NRs  be  linked? 

The  CSI  should  only  link  NRs  when  the  noncompliances  are  from  the  same 
cause.  For  example: 

• If  repetitive  condensation  findings  are  occurring,  the  CSI  should  be  linking 
NRs  together  to  document  that  there  Is  a trend  occurring.  This  trend  may 
be  because  the  preventive  measures  are  either  not  implemented  or  are 
ineffective  in  preventing  this  noncompliance.  However,  a CSI  should  use 
professional  judgment  in  making  the  determination  whether  NRs  should 
be  linked.  If  the  establishment  has  shown  a substantial  period  of 
compliance,  the  CSI  should  not  link  the  NR  to  previous  NRs  with  the  same 
cause,  unless  there  is  a compelling  circumstance  that  justifies  doing  so, 
for  example,  the  exact  same  circumstance  that  brought  about  the  initial 
NR  has  reoccurred. 

• An  NR  under  procedure  06D01  for  condensation  can  be  linked  to  an  NR 
written  for  condensation  under  procedure  01 B02  or  01 C02  as  the  cause  is 
the  same.  However,  an  NR  written  for  condensation  under  06D01  should 
not  be  linked  to  an  NR  written  for  water  dripping  from  the  ceiling,  from  a 
roof  leak,  under  06D01 . They  are  both  noncompliances  and  both  are 
water  dripping  from  the  ceiling.  Both  are  documented  under  the  same 
procedure  code  and  the  same  trend  indicators.  However,  the 
noncompliance  for  condensation  Is  from  a different  cause  than  the 
noncompliance  for  the  roof  leak. 

When  the  CSI  links  one  NR  to  another,  he  or  she  should  reference  the 
previous  NR  number  and  date  as  well  as  the  further  planned  action  that  was 
ineffective  in  preventing  recurrence  of  the  noncompliance.  For  example; 

• The  CSI  issued  NR  25-02  on  July  1 , 2002,  for  condensation  and  the 
establishment  installed  fans  as  its  further  planned  action.  On  July  8,  2002, 
the  CSI  again  observes  condensation.  If  the  CSI  links  these  NRs,  he  or 
she  should  document  in  Block  10,  that  the  same  or  similar  noncompliance 
was  documented  on  July  1, 2002,  on  NR  25-02.  The  further  planned 


IV-13 


action  of  installing  fans  was  ineffective  in  preventing  the  condensation 
noncompliance. 

When  the  CSI  starts  linking  NRs,  he  or  she  should  be  discussing  these 
linkages  with  plant  management  during  the  weekly  meetings.  The  CSI  should 
also  include  in  Block  10  of  the  NR  that  these  discussions  were  held. 

The  purpose  of  linking  NRs  is  to  provide  notification  to  the  establishment  that 
the  further  planned  actions  have  been  ineffective  in,  or  were  not  implemented  in 
a way  that  is,  preventing  the  noncompliance  from  recurring,  and  that  if  the  trend 
continues,  the  repetitive  NR  would  support  an  enforcement  action  under  the  rules 
of  practice. 

The  CSI  should  also  Include  a statement  In  Block  10  of  the  NR  stating  that 
continued  failure  to  meet  regulatory  requirements  can  lead  to  enforcement 
actions  described  In  9 CFR  500.4. 

The  CSI  should  continue  to  link  NRs  together  that  derive  from  the  same  or  a 
related  cause  until  he  or  she  determines  that  an  enforcement  action  is  necessary 
to  bring  the  establishment  into  compliance  with  the  regulations.  When  the 
determination  is  made  by  the  CSI  that  enforcement  action  is  necessary,  he  or 
she  should  contact  the  DO  and  ask  the  DO  to  Issue  an  NOIE  to  the 
establishment,  as  described  in  9 CFR  500.4.  The  CSI  should  always  keep  his  or 
her  supervisor  apprised  of  the  situation. 

NOTE:  It  is  important  to  note  that  noncompliance  with  SPS  requirements  can  be 
linked  to  Sanitation  SOP  or  HACCP  noncompliance  if  the  cause  of  the 
noncompliance  is  the  same.  It  is  inappropriate  for  the  CSI  to  have  several  NRs 
documenting  noncompliance  without  linkage  and  then  determine  there  is  a trend 
occurring  and  list  all  of  the  individual  NRs  to  serve  as  linkage.  The  NRs  should 
be  linked  as  they  are  issued,  and  the  concern  communicated  to  the 
establishment  at  the  weekly  meetings. 

The  CSI  should  use  good  judgment  in  making  the  determination  which  NRs  to 
link  together.  For  example: 

• If  the  CSI  observes  condensation  on  an  overhead  that  is  not 
contaminating  product  and  makes  the  determination  there  is  SPS 
noncompliance,  he  or  she  should  then  determine  whether  there  is  a need 
to  link  that  NR  to  a previous  NR. 

• One  of  the  decisions  that  the  CSI  needs  to  make  when  trying  to  reach  this 
determination  is  whether  the  second  noncompliance  is  an  isolated  incident 
or  a trend  of  noncompliance  developing.  Some  of  the  questions  that  might 
assist  the  CSI  to  make  this  decision  are: 


IV-14 


1 . How  much  time  has  lapsed  since  the  previous  NR  was  written? 

2.  Was  this  noncompliance  from  the  same  cause  as  the  previous  NR? 

3.  Were  the  establishment’s  further  planned  actions  implemented? 

4.  Were  the  establishment’s  further  planned  actions  effective  in  reducing  the 
frequency  of  these  noncompliances? 

5.  Is  the  establishment  continuing  to  implement  better  further  planned 
actions? 

• An  establishment  might  have  several  hundred  pieces  of  equipment  that 
are  cleaned  daily  prior  to  operation.  The  procedures  have  been 
implemented  as  per  the  Sanitation  SOP,  the  monitoring  of  the  procedures 
have  been  conducted,  but  there  may  still  be  a small  amount  of  residue  on 
a contact  surface  somewhere  in  the  plant  at  some  frequency  that  was  not 
found  during  the  establishment’s  monitoring.  To  determine  whether  a 
trend  is  developing,  the  CSI  would  ask: 

1 . Are  the  noncompliances  occurring  due  to  the  same  cause? 

2.  Why  are  the  noncompliances  occurring?  (Negligence,  ineffective 
method,  incomplete  execution  by  the  plant,  or  some  other  reason) 

NOTE:  The  CSI  can  contact  the  supervisor  for  assistance  in  making  this 
decision.  The  in-plant  inspection  team  can  also  contact  the  TSC  for  assistance, 
if  needed. 

B.  What  is  the  difference  between  the  use  of  trend  indicators  and 
deciding  that  two  NRs  can  be  linked? 

Trend  indicators  are  used  on  NRs  to  note  that  the  noncompliance  is  of  a 
particular  type.  The  fact  that  two  NRs  have  the  same  trend  Indicator  marked 
does  not  necessarily  have  any  regulatory  significance.  The  noncompliances  that 
are  the  subject  of  the  NRs  may  or  may  not  be  related.  NRs  are  to  be  linked 
when  the  noncompliances  are  from  the  same  cause. 


IV-15 


CSOs 


PART  I « FSIS  Form  5000-8,  Comprehensive  Assessment  of  the  Execution 
and  Design  of  an  Estabiishment’s  Food  Safety  Systems  Report 

A.  What  FSIS  Form  do  CSOs  complete  after  performing  a comprehensive 
assessment  of  establishments  food  safety  systems? 

CSOs  complete  FSIS  Form  5000-8.  CSOs  can  find  this  electronic  form  in  the 
Public  Folders/All  Public  Folders/Agency  Issuances/Forms/5000  Series.  The 
CSO  can  access  this  form  and  save  it  to  a disk,  or  can  open  and  complete  the 
form  and  save  the  information  as  a file. 

CSOs  are  only  to  include  the  facts  that  they  observe  during  the  plant  visit,  and 
they  are  to  document  these  facts  in  a manner  that  will  allow  anyone  reading  the 
report  to  understand  the  observations  that  were  made. 

B.  How  do  CSOs  complete  FSIS  Form  5000-8? 

In  the  first  portion  of  the  form,  CSOs  are  to  fill  in  the  appropriate  information  in 
the  blocks  provided  (i.e.,  establishment  number,  dates  of  the  establishment  visit, 
name  and  address  of  establishment,  name  of  CSO,  district,  circuit  visited,  and 
reason  for  visit). 

In  the  second  portion  of  the  form,  CSOs  provide  a summary  of  the  data 
assessment  they  compiled  prior  to  visiting  the  establishment  (e.g.,  the  type  of 
data  analyzed  and  a brief  summary  of  the  analysis  of  the  data). 

In  the  third  portion  of  the  form,  CSOs  provide  findings  and  recommendations. 
CSOs  are  to  Include: 

1 . A summary  of  the  entrance  meeting 

2.  Specific  findings  about  design  and  execution  elements 

NOTE:  CSOs  are  only  to  record  facts,  not  suppositions  or  opinions.  CSOs  should 
not  include  solutions  to  findings. 

3.  A recommendation  such  as  issuance  of  a 30-day  letter  or  a NOIE 

NOTE:  The  CSOs  are  to  document  the  findings  in  a manner  that  explains  the 
basis  for  the  recommendation. 

4.  A summary  of  the  exit  meetings  with  establishment  management  and  with 
in-plant  personnel  (e.g.,  attendees,  main  findings,  recommended  actions,  CSO 


IV-16 


contact  for  design  issues,  Front-line  Supervisors  responsible  for  execution  of  the 
systems,  and  what  resources  were  provided  to  the  establishment). 

C.  What  is  the  distribution  of  the  completed  form? 

After  CSOs  complete  the  form,  they  are  to  e-mail  It  to  the  DM  and  the  Front- 
line Supervisor.  The  DM  will  file  the  report  in  a District  Public  Folder. 


IV-17 


Rules  of  Practice 


PART  I — Enforcement  Actions 

A.  What  are  the  three  types  of  enforcement  actions  defined  in  the 
Agency’s  Rules  of  Practice? 

9 CFR  500.1  defines  three  types  of  enforcement  actions.  They  are : 

1.  A “regulatory  control  action,”  is  the  retention  of  product,  rejection  of 
equipment  or  facilities,  slowing  or  stopping  of  lines,  or  refusal  to  allow  the 
processing  of  specifically  identified  product; 

2.  A “withholding  action,”  is  the  refusal  to  allow  the  marks  of  inspection  to 
be  applied  to  products.  A withholding  action  may  affect  ail  product  in  the 
establishment  or  product  produced  by  a particular  process;  and 

3.  A “suspension,”  is  an  interruption  in  the  assignment  of  program 
employees  to  all  or  part  of  an  establishment. 

B.  Although  similar,  what  are  the  differences  between  a withholding 
action  and  a suspension? 

Withholding  actions  affect  whether  the  mark  of  inspection  may  be  applied, 
while  suspensions  affect  whether  inspection  verification  activities  will  be 
performed. 

Both  withholding  and  suspension  actions  are  different  from  a withdrawal  of  a 
Federal  grant  of  inspection  or  a refusal  to  grant  Inspection.  Withdrawal  actions 
are  initiated  by  the  FSIS  Administrator  according  to  the  Department  of 
Agriculture’s  Uniform  Rules  of  Practice,  a different  set  of  procedures,  found  at  7 
CFR  Subtitle  A,  part  1,  subpart  H. 

PART  II  --  Regulatory  Control  Action 

A.  What  are  the  regulatory  provisions  for  a regulatory  control  action? 

9 CFR  500.2  lists  the  reasons  for  which  FSIS  may  decide  to  take  a regulatory 
control  action.  They  are: 

1.  insanitary  conditions  or  practices; 

2.  product  adulteration  or  misbranding; 


IV-18 


3.  conditions  that  preciude  FSiS  from  determining  that  product  is  not 
adulterated  or  not  misbranded;  or 

4.  inhumane  handling  or  slaughtering  of  livestock. 

B.  What  is  the  purpose  of  a regulatory  control  action? 

A regulatory  control  action  covers  a wide  variety  of  inspection  procedures. 

A regulatory  control  action  is  a limited  focus  action  that  is  to  be  used  to 
address  specific  problems  that  inspection  program  personnel  come  upon  in  the 
course  of  their  activities. 

A regulatory  control  action  permits  inspection  program  personnel  to  identify 
regulatory  noncompliance  and  prevent  the  movement  of  the  product  involved  or 
use  of  the  equipment  or  facility  involved  until  the  noncompliance  has  been 
corrected.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  not  required  to  give  the 
establishment  prior  notification  that  they  are  about  to  execute  a regulatory  control 
action. 

C.  What  are  some  examples  of  regulatory  control  actions? 

• A regulatory  control  action  may  be  warranted  for  direct  product 
contamination  with  a contaminant  that  does  not  result  in  a food  safety 
hazard. 

• A regulatory  control  action  may  be  warranted  with  respect  to  product  that 
is  economically  adulterated. 

• A regulatory  control  action  may  also  be  warranted  as  a result  of  regulatory 
noncompliance  even  when  there  is  no  product  contamination  or 
adulteration. 

• A regulatory  control  action  should  be  taken  when  inspection  program 
personnel  are  assessing  sanitary  conditions  of  the  establishment  prior  to 
operation  and  observe  product  residue  from  the  previous  day’s  production 
on  a contact  surface. 

• A regulatory  control  action  would  be  warranted  if  inspection  program 
personnel  determine  that  packaged  product  does  not  meet  the  net  weight 
requirements. 

• Inspection  program  personnel  could  initiate  a regulatory  control  action 
when  there  is  noncompliance  with  the  SPS  regulations,  if  control  is 
needed  to  prevent  contamination  of  product. 


IV-19 


NOTE:  Regulatory  control  actions  are  not  frequently  used  for  HACCP  regulatory 
noncompliance  unless  control  is  necessary  to  prevent  shipment  of  contaminated 
or  adulterated  product. 

D.  What  procedures  are  to  be  used  when  inspection  program  personnel 
take  a regulatory  control  action? 

After  determining  that  a regulatory  control  action  needs  to  be  taken, 
inspection  program  personnel  will  notify,  as  specified  in  9 CFR  500.2(b),  the 
establishment  orally  or  in  writing  of  the  action  and  the  basis  for  it.  The  written 
notification  will  be  a NR. 

As  specified  in  9 CFR  500.2(c),  an  establishment  may  appeal  a regulatory 
control  action  by  following  the  procedures  described  in  9 CFR  306.5  and  381.35. 
These  simple  procedures  direct  establishments  that  want  to  appeal  to  bring  the 
appeal  to  the  next  level  of  supervision. 

PART  III  --  Withholding  Actions  and  Suspensions 

A.  When  Is  prior  notification  not  necessary  before  taking  a 
withholding  or  suspension  action? 

9 CFR  500.3,  states  that  "FS/S  may  take  a withholding  action  or  impose  a 
suspension  without  providing  the  establishment  prior  notification  because 

1.  The  establishment  produced  and  shipped  adulterated  or  misbranded 
product  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  453  or  21  U.S.C.  601; 

2.  the  establishment  does  not  have  a HACCP  plan  as  specified  in  417.2; 

3.  the  establishment  does  not  have  Sanitation  SOPs  as  specified  in  416.11- 
416.12; 

4.  sanitary  conditions  are  such  that  products  in  the  establishment  are  or 
would  be  rendered  adulterated; 

5.  the  establishment  violated  the  terms  of  a regulatory  control  action; 

6.  an  establishment  representative  assaulted,  threatened  to  assault, 
intimidated,  or  interfered  with  an  FSIS  employee;  or 

1.  the  establishment  did  not  destroy  a condemned  meat  or  poultry  carcass, 
or  part  or  product  thereof  in  accordance  with  part  314  or  part  381,  subpart  L of 
this  chapter,  within  three  days  of  notification. 


IV-20 


NOTE:  As  a suspension  only  under  9 CFR  500.3(b),  the  establishment  is 
handling  or  slaughtering  animals  inhumanely. 

B.  Why  is  prior  notification  not  necessary? 

The  situations  in  paragraph  III  A necessitate  prompt  action  to  protect  the 
public  health  or  the  safety  of  FSIS  personnel.  When  this  is  the  case,  but  only  in 
such  cases,  a withholding  action  or  suspension  action  may  be  taken  without  prior 
notification. 

Inspection  program  personnel  taking  withholding  actions  without  prior 
notification  must  be  able  to  document  the  imminent  threat  to  public  health  or  to 
the  safety  of  inspection  program  personnel  that  made  prior  notification  infeasible. 

NOTE:  Multiple  instances  of  economic  adulteration  do  not  justify  taking  a 
withholding  action  without  prior  notification  to  the  establishment  and  the 
opportunity  to  achieve  compliance. 

C.  When  is  prior  notification  necessary  before  taking  a withholding 
action  or  a suspension  action? 

9 CFR  500.4  states  that  FSIS  may  take  a withholding  action  or  impose  a 
suspension  after  an  establishment  is  provided  prior  notification  and  the 
opportunity  to  demonstrate  or  achieve  compliance  because: 

1.  The  HACCP  system  is  inadequate  under  417.6  of  this  chapter,  due  to 
multiple  or  recurring  noncompliances; 

2.  The  Sanitation  Standard  Operating  Procedures  have  not  been  properly 
implemented  or  maintained  as  specified  in  416.13  through  416.16  of  this  chapter; 

3.  The  establishment  has  not  maintained  sanitary  conditions  as  prescribed 
in  sections  416.2-416.6  of  this  chapter  due  to  multiple  or  recurring 
noncompiiances; 

4.  The  establishment  did  not  collect  and  analyze  samples  for  E.  coli  Biotype 
I,  and  record  results  in  accordance  with  310.25(a)  or  381.94(a)  of  this  chapter;  or 

5.  The  establishment  did  not  meet  the  Salmonella  performance  standard 
requirements  prescribed  in  310.25(b)  or  381.94(b)  of  this  chapter. 

D.  What  is  the  purpose  of  the  prior  notification? 

The  purpose  of  prior  notification,  with  an  opportunity  for  the  establishment  to 
respond,  is  to  provide  the  establishment  with  due  process  procedures. 


IV-21 


For  paragraph  C above,  the  determinations  require  that  the  Agency  compile 
extensive  information  and  analyze  it  with  care  and  good  judgment.  This  makes  it 
reasonable  to  provide  the  establishment  with  this  information  in  advance.  The 
establishment  will  have  an  opportunity  to  point  out  any  factual  errors  made  by  the 
Agency,  identify  scientific  or  technical  disagreements,  and  articulate  differing 
interpretations  of  regulatory  requirements.  All  this  Information  is  useful  to  FSIS  in 
determining  how  to  proceed.  The  plant  also  has  an  opportunity  to  present 
corrective  actions. 

PART  IV  - NOTIFICATION 

A.  How  is  an  establishment  notified  if  FSIS  decides  to  take  a withholding 
action  or  impose  a suspension? 

As  stated  in  9 CFR  500.5(a)  If  FSIS  takes  a withholding  action  or  imposes  a 
suspension,  the  establishment  will  be  notified  orally  and,  as  promptly  as 
circumstances  permit,  in  writing.  The  written  notification  will: 

a.  state  the  effective  date  of  the  action(s), 

b.  describe  the  reasons  for  the  actions(s), 

c.  identify  the  products  or  processes  affected  by  the  action(s), 

d.  provide  the  establishment  an  opportunity  to  present  immediate  and 
corrective  action  and  further  planned  preventive  action;  and 

e.  advise  the  establishment  that  it  may  appeal  the  action  as  provided  in 
sections  306.5  and  381.35  of  this  chapter 

B.  How  is  the  establishment  notified  when  it  is  necessary  for  FSIS  to 
provide  the  prior  notification  to  the  establishment  that  there  is  a basis  for 
FSIS  to  withhold  the  marks  of  inspection  or  to  suspend  inspection  as 
specified  in  9 CFR  500.4? 

9 CFR  500.5  (b)  states:  The  prior  notification  provided  for  in  section  500.4  of 
this  part  will: 

a.  state  the  type  of  action  that  FSIS  may  take; 

b.  describe  the  reasons  for  the  proposed  action; 

c.  identify  the  products  or  processes  affected  by  the  proposed  action; 

( 


IV-22 


of.  advise  the  establishment  of  its  right  to  contact  FSIS  to  contest  the 
basis  for  the  proposed  action  or  to  explain  how  compliance  has  or  will  be 
achieved;  and 

e.  advise  the  establishment  that  it  will  have  three  business  days  from 
receipt  of  the  written  notification  to  respond  to  FSIS  unless  the  time  period  is 
extended  by  FSIS. 

To  meet  the  notification  requirements  of  9 CFR  500.5,  a DM  issues  an  NOIE 
to  an  establishment.  In  addition  to  Informing  an  establishment  about 
noncompliances  warranting  a withholding  or  suspension,  the  NOIE  provides  an 
establishment  three  business  days  to  contest  the  basis  for  the  proposed 
enforcement  action  or  to  demonstrate  how  compliance  has  been  or  will  be 
achieved.  Based  on  discussion  with  the  establishment,  the  DM  may  extend  the 
three  business  days  if  he  or  she  believes  this  is  necessary. 

NOTE:  An  establishment  may  appeal  all  aspects  of  inspection  decisions, 
including  the  issuance  of  the  NOIE.  However,  an  appeal  of  the  NOIE  is  not  a 
separate  action,  and  the  establishment  is  expected  to  make  such  an  appeal  as 
part  of  its  response  to  the  NOIE. 

C.  What  should  a DM  do  when  he  or  she  receives  an  establishment’s 
response  to  an  NOIE? 

The  DM  should  assess  and  evaluate  the  establishment’s  response  and  decide 
whether  inspection  should  be  withheld  or  suspended.  The  DM  determines 
whether  the  establishment’s  proposed  action  plan  addresses  the  problem  and,  if 
implemented,  is  likely  to  provide  an  acceptable  solution.  The  DMs  should 
consider  any  decisionmaking  documents  as  required  by  the  appropriate 
regulations.  Also,  the  DM  should  consider  the  establishment’s  history  of 
Implementing  its  operating  procedures  and  its  planned  corrective  and  preventive 
actions  and  determine  whether  the  establishment  is  likely  to  implement  its 
proposed  actions  effectively.  DMs  are  encouraged  to  contact  staff  members  from 
the  TSC,  the  Office  of  Public  Health  and  Science,  and  the  Office  of  Policy  and 
Program  Development  for  assistance  in  making  decisions. 

Upon  assessing  and  evaluating  the  establishment’s  response,  the  DM  may 
decide  to  accept  the  establishment’s  plan.  Implement  the  appropriate 
enforcement  action,  or  defer  his  or  her  decision.  The  following  provides  the  DM 
guidance  on  what  procedures  to  follow: 

1 . Under  what  circumstances  should  a DM  accept  the  establishment’s 
response? 

If  the  establishment  responds  within  the  specified  time  frame,  has 
demonstrated  that  compliance  has  already  been  achieved,  or  provides  a 


IV-23 


description  of  acceptable  corrective  and  preventive  actions  from  which  the  DM 
can  find  that  compliance  will  be  achieved  upon  implementation,  the  DM  can 
accept  the  response,  notify  the  establishment  of  the  decision,  ensure  that  the 
establishment  implements  the  corrective  and  preventive  actions  in  a timely 
manner,  and  close  the  matter  with  a letter  of  Information  to  the  establishment. 

2.  Under  what  circumstances  could  a DM  implement  an  enforcement 
action? 

If  the  establishment  does  not  respond  or,  based  on  the  DM’s  assessment  and 
evaluation  of  all  pertinent  information,  the  DM  finds  that  compliance  cannot  or  will 
not  be  achieved  upon  implementation,  the  DM  will  Implement  the  enforcement 
action.  In  those  instances  involving: 

• withholding  actions,  the  DM  instructs  the  1 1C  to  impose  the  withholding 
action  and  notifies  the  establishment  as  specified  in  9 CFR  500.5(a).  The 
DM’s  notification  must  include  the  basis  for  his  or  her  decision. 

• suspension  actions,  the  DM  instructs  the  1 1C  to  suspend  Inspection  and 
notifies  the  establishment  as  specified  in  9 CFR  500.5(a).  The  DM’s 
notification  must  include  the  basis  for  his  or  her  decision. 

D.  Under  what  circumstances  can  a DM  defer  an  enforcement  decision? 

A DM  may  defer  an  enforcement  decision  when  he  or  she  has  substantial 
reason  to  believe  that  the  establishment’s  proposed  corrective  and  preventive 
action  are  adequate  to  eliminate  the  noncompliance  but  lacks  the  substantive 
and  supporting  evidence  that  he  or  she  needs  to  make  a definite  decision.  For 
example,  a plant  may  submit  an  apparently  adequate  proposed  plan  and  have  a 
good  history  of  executing  its  HACCP  plan,  but  not  include  sufficient 
documentation  to  enable  the  DM  to  find  that  the  proposed  plan,  once  executed, 
will  prevent  recurrence.  In  this  situation,  a DM  may  choose  to  defer  his  or  her 
enforcement  decision  and  allow  the  establishment  to  implement  the  plan  until  it 
can  be  determined  whether  the  plan  is  effective.  The  DM  is  expected  to  make  a 
decision  on  the  adequacy  of  the  preventive  action  as  soon  as  sufficient 
information  becomes  available.  The  DM  should  not  defer  a decision  for  more 
than  90  days  without  cause.  The  DM  is  to  notify  the  establishment  in  writing  as 
to  why  he  or  she  deferred  a decision. 

If  the  DM  determines  that  the  establishment’s  plan  is  adequate,  the  DM 
should  close  the  matter  with  a letter  of  information  to  the  establishment. 

If,  at  any  time,  during  a period  of  deferment,  the  establishment  fails  to  adhere 
to  the  proposed  action  plan,  and  the  DM  determines  that  an  enforcement  action 
is  warranted,  the  DM  will  instruct  the  IIC  to  either  impose  a withholding  action  or 
effect  the  suspension  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  500.4.  The  DM  will  immediately 


IV-24 


notify  the  establishment  management  of  this  decision  and  the  basis  for  it  in 
accordance  with  9 CFR  500.5. 

PART  V - Abeyance 

A.  What  is  an  abeyance,  and  when  is  it  used? 

9 CFR  500.5(e)  states  that  FSIS  may  hold  a suspension  in  abeyance  and  allow 
the  establishment  to  operate  under  the  conditions  agreed  to  by  FSIS  and  the 
establishment 

B.  Under  what  circumstances  couid  the  DM  hoid  a suspension  in 
abeyance? 

When  a DM  has  suspended  inspection,  he  or  she  may  subsequently  decide  to 
hold  that  suspension  in  abeyance  as  specified  in  9 CFR  500.5  if: 

1 . the  establishment  presents  a plan  that  demonstrates  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  DM  that  the  establishment  has  designed  corrective  and  preventive  actions 
that  are  appropriate  to  meet  the  regulatory  requirement;  and 

2.  it  is  necessary  to  allow  the  establishment  to  operate  after  implementing 
these  corrective  and  preventive  actions  so  the  DM  can  determine  whether  the 
establishment  is  able  to  adequately  execute  the  plan.  The  DM  should  not  hold  a 
suspension  in  abeyance  until  the  corrective  and  preventive  actions  are 
implemented,  and  the  abeyance  should  not  be  for  more  than  90  days  without 
cause. 

If  the  establishment  has  a history  of  failing  to  meet  the  criteria  discussed 
above,  the  DM  may  decide  not  to  accept  the  establishment’s  plan. 

If  the  DM  decides  to  put  the  suspension  in  abeyance,  and  the  establishment 
fails  to  either  meet  regulatory  requirements  or  maintain  regulatory  compliance, 
during  the  abeyance  period,  the  DM  may  lift  the  abeyance  and  put  the 
suspension  back  in  effect.  If  this  occurs,  the  DM  will  Instruct  the  IIC  to  suspend 
inspection  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  500.4  and  immediately  notify  the 
establishment  management  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  500.5(a).  The  DM  will  also 
contact  the  Acting  Regional  Investigation  Manager. 


IV-25 


h £ 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C, 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


6040.1 


8/26/93 


DISPOSITION  OF  SHEEP  AND  THEIR  CARCASSES 
IMPLANTED  WITH  ELECTRONIC  IDENTIFICATION  DEVICES 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  guidance  to  ensure  that  electronic 
identification  devices  implanted  in  sheep  under  the  Voluntary 
Scrapie  Flock  Certification  Program  do  not  enter  human  or  animal 
food  channels. 


II.  [RESERVED] 


III.  [RESERVED] 


IV.  REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations,  Parts  301,  309,  311,  314,  and  318 
FDA  Regulations,  21  CFR  Part  170.3 
APHIS  Regulations,  9 CFR  Parts  54  and  74 


V.  ABBREVIATIONS 

The  following  are  used  in  their  shortened  form  in  this  directive: 

APHIS 
EID 
FDA 
INAD 
10 
VS 

VSFCP 


Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service 
Electronic  Identification  Device 
Food  and  Drug  Administration 
Investigational  New  Animal  Drug 
Inspection  Operations 
Veterinary  Services,  APHIS 

Voluntary  Scrapie  Flock  Certification  Program 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors, DPI:  S&T/SISPD 

Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


VI 


DEFINITIONS 


A.  Scrapie.  A nonfebrile,  transmissible,  insidious,  and 
degenerative  disease  affecting  the  central  nervous  system  of 
sheep  and  goats. 

B.  Voluntary  Scrapie  Flock  Certification  Program.  A 

voluntary  State/Federal/Industry  Cooperative  Program  established 
and  maintained  to  reduce  the  occurrence  and  spread  of  scrapie, 
and  to  identify  flocks  which  have  demonstrated  freedom  from  signs 
of  scrapie  and  freedom  from  exposure  to  scrapie  over  specified 
periods  of  time. 

C.  Electronic  Identification  Device.  An  electronic  ear 
implant,  required  by  VS,  APHIS,  which  provides  an  individual 
identification  for  certain  sheep  in  the  VSFCP.  This  device  is 
also  known  as  a transponder. 

D.  Sheep  Implantation  Site.  The  subcutaneous  implant  on 
top  of  the  auricular  cartilage  at  the  base  of  the  sheep's  ear. 


VI . BACKGROUND 

A.  VS,  APHIS,,  implements  the  VSFCP  in  accordance  with  APHIS 
Regulations,  9 CFR  parts  54  and  74,  and  the  Voluntary  Scrapie 
Flock  Certification  Uniform  Methods  and  Rules,  referenced  further 
in  this  document. 

B.  FDA,  which  has  jurisdiction  regarding  food  additives, 
considers  EIDs  to  be  unapproved  food  additives  for  human  food  or 
animal  feed.  Accordingly,  the  EIDs  must  be  removed  from  the 
sheep  at  the  time  of  slaughter. 

C.  The  Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act  sets  forth  mandatory 
inspection  requirements  to  ensure  the  safety,  wholesomeness,  and 
proper  labeling  of  meat  products.  FSIS  inspectors  condemn  and 
monitor  the  disposal  of  carcasses,  edible  organs  and  other  parts 
thereof  in  accordance  with  MPI  Regulations.  Meat  products  cannot 
contain  unapproved  additives. 


VII.  POLICY 

A.  The  Voluntary  Scrapie  Flock  Certification  Uniform 
Methods  and  Rules  require  EIDs  as  the  official  means  of 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  6040.1 


identification.  The  EIDs  should  be  implanted  subcutaneously  in 
the  animal's  ear.  From  participating  flocks,  all  sheep  1 year  or 
older  are  required  to  be  implanted  with  EIDs.  All  sheep  in  the 
VSFCP  flocks  less  than  1 year  of  age  must  be  implanted  with  EIDS 
whenever  a change  of  ownership  occurs,  except  those  sheep  moving 
within  slaughter  channels. 

B.  When  sheep  implanted  with  EIDs  are  presented  for 
slaughter,  the  sheep  must  be  accompanied  by  an  INAD 
permit  number  and  authorization  from  the  Residue  Operations 
Staff,  10,  as  set  forth  in  MPI  Regulations  309.17  and  FDA 
Regulations,  21  CFR  Part  511.1(a)(5),  except  under  the  conditions 
described  in  Paragraph  VII.  C.  below. 

C.  Sheep  that  are  implanted  with  EIDs  and  that  are  not 
accompanied  by  an  INAD  number  and  authorization  may  be  presented 
for  slaughter  provided: 

1.  The  sheep  are  from  a flock  that  is  participating  in 

the  VSFCP. 

2.  The  sheep  are  marked,  tagged,  or  otherwise 
identified  by  the  owner,  shipper,  or  establishment  so  that  the 
sheep  are  easily  recognized  by  the  FSIS  inspector  from  ante- 
mortem inspection  through  disposition  of  carcasses. 

3.  The  sheep's  ears  implanted  with  EIDs  do  not  enter 
human  or  animal  food  chains  and  are  disposed  of  in  accordance 
with  requirements  of  the  particular  State  or  municipal 
authorities . 


VIII . RESPONSIBILITIES 

A.  Establishment  should: 

1.  Ensure  that  sheep  are  identified  when  notified  that 
VSFCP  sheep  are  presented  for  slaughter. 


2 . Ensure  that  the  identity  of  the  sheep  implanted 
with  EIDs  is  maintained  from  ante-mortem  inspection  through 
disposition  of  carcasses. 

3 . Ensure  that  the  ears  containing  the  EIDs  do  not 
enter  human  or  animal  food  channels. 


Page  3 


B.  FSIS  inspector  will 


1.  Monitor  the  establishment's  identification  of  VSFCP 
sheep  presented  for  slaughter. 

2.  Monitor  the  establishment's  ability  to  maintain  the 
identity  of  sheep  implanted  with  EIDs  from  ante-mortem  inspection 
through  disposition  of  carcasses. 

3.  Monitor  the  establishment's  ability  to  prevent  ears 
containing  the  EIDs  from  entering  human  or  animal  food  channels. 


IX.  FURTHER  GUIDANCE 

Any  questions  regarding  this  directive  should  be  referred  to  the 
next  level  of  supervision. 


Inspection  Operations 


-SU.S.  Government  Printing  Office  : 1993  - 341-280/81388 


( 


IS-CFFIClAUv 


25l09n  » 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


FIRST  CLASS  MAIL 


37/445«PSLDi594  R1  103-0001 

El 

US  DEPT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  A NUTRI  INFORMATION  CNTR 
NAT^L  AGRI  LIBRARY,  RM  304 
BELTSVILLE  MD  20705-2351 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


6210.1 
Rev . 1 


9/24/93 


POST-MORTEM  DISPOSITION  OF  POULTRY 


I . PURPOSE 

The  purpose  of  this  directive  is  threefold: 

A.  To  clarify  the  difference  between  the  disposition  of 
carcasses  missing  all  of  the  viscera  and  carcasses  missing  part 
of  the  viscera; 

B.  To  eliminate  the  procedure  of  "pooling"  viscera  in 
poultry;  and 

C.  To  provide  post-mortem  disposition  guidelines. 

II.  CANCELLATION 

FSIS  Directive  6210.1,  dated  2-4-87. 

III.  REFERENCE 

MPI  Regulation  381.76(a). 

IV.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE 

This  directive  has  been  reorganized  and  rewritten  to  clarify  FSIS 
policy  on  the  post-mortem  disposition  of  poultry  carcasses 
missing  all  or  part  of  the  viscera. 

V.  POLICY 

A.  A uniform  policy  must  be  followed  in  poultry 
slaughter  establishments  for  the  disposition  of  carcasses  with 
part  or  all  of  the  viscera  missing.  MPI  Regulation  381.76(a) 
states  that  " . . .No  viscera  or  any  part  thereof  shall  be  removed 
from  any  poultry  processed  in  any  official  establishment,  except 
at  the  time  of  post-mortem  inspection,  unless  their  identity  with 
the  rest  of  the  carcass  is  maintained  in  a manner  satisfactory  to 
the  inspector  until  such  inspection  is  made." 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors, DPI:  lO/SOS 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


B.  A clear  distinction  must  be  made  between  carcasses 
categorized  as  having  "no  viscera"  and  those  "missing  part  of  the 
viscera."  Absence  of  such  a distinction  has  contributed  to  a 
lack  of  uniform  disposition  nationwide.  This  lack  of  uniform 
disposition  has  been  magnified  by  the  implementation  of  the 
Streamlined  Inspection  System  (SIS) , New  Line  Speed  (NELS) 
Inspection  System,  and  the  New  Turkey  Inspection  (NTI)  System, 
since  these  systems  use  the  category  "no  viscera"  as  an  error  in 
the  presentation  log. 

VI.  CATEGORIZING  CARCASSES  MISSING  ALL  OR  PART  OF  THE 
VISCERA 

A.  Carcasses  are  to  be  classified  as  having  "no 
viscera"  if: 

1.  No  visceral  parts  are  present;  or 

2.  Some  visceral  parts  are  present,  but  all  three 
"major  organs"  (heart,  liver,  spleen)  are  missing. 

B.  Carcasses  are  to  be  classified  as  "missing  part  of 
the  viscera"  if  some  visceral  parts  are  present,  including  at 
least  one  major  organ. 

NOTE:  For  purposes  of  this  classification,  one-half  or  more  of 

the  liver  will  be  considered  the  same  as  a whole  liver. 

VII.  POOLING  VISCERA 

The  procedure  for  pooling  viscera  separated  from  carcasses  prior 
to  inspection  is  neither  practical  nor  easy  to  control 
sufficiently  to  ensure  adequate  inspection,  especially  in  the  new 
poultry  inspection  systems  and,  therefore,  is  no  longer  allowed. 

VIII.  POST-MORTEM  DISPOSITION 

A.  A veterinary  inspector-in-charge  (IIC)  is 
responsible  for  disposition  accuracy.  Under  veterinary 
supervision,  inspectors  may  condemn  poultry  carcasses,  parts, 
or  organs  obviously  unwholesome  or  unfit  for  human  food.  Any 
carcass  showing  signs  of  an  abnormal  physiological  state  but 
not  obviously  condemnable  shall  be  retained  for  the  veterinary 
medical  officer,  who  shall  make  a judgment  on  the  disposition  as 
required  by  regulations. 

B.  Condemnations  are  to  be  recorded  on  FSIS  Form 
6000-16,  Poultry  Inspection  - Lot  Tally  Sheet. 

C.  The  disposition  guidelines  are  as  follows: 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  6210.1 
Revision  1 


1.  For  a carcass (es)  classified  as  "missing  part  of 
the  viscera,"  the  inspector  shall: 

a.  pass  the  carcass (es)  as  wholesome; 

b.  retain  the  questionable  carcass (es)  and/or 
viscera  for  veterinary  disposition;  or 

c.  condemn  the  carcass (es)  per  disease 


condition . 


2.  For  carcass (es)  classified  as  having  "no 
viscera,"  the  inspector  shall  hang  back  the  carcass (es)  for 
veterinary  disposition  until  the  IIC  can: 

a.  determine  if  the  entire  lot  of  "no  viscera" 
carcass (es)  should  be  retained  due  to  the  existence  of 
pathological/unwholesome  conditions;  or 

b.  direct  the  on-line  inspectors  to  pass 
carcasses  in  that  lot,  if  pathological/unwholesome  conditions  do 
not  exist. 

D.  The  inspector's  helper  may  assist  the  inspector  in  post- 
mortem inspection  by: 

1.  Removing  carcasses  from  the  line; 

2.  Marking  the  FSIS  Form  6000-16; 

3.  Identifying  carcasses;  and 

4.  Trimming  defects  and  abnormalities  (when  time 
permits  as  specified  in  nontraditional  inspection  systems) . 

If  there  are  any  questions  regarding  this  directive,  they  should 
be  retired  to  the  next  level  of  supervision. 


Deputy  Administrator 
Inspection  Operations 


Page  3 


iHI.S.  Government  Printing  Office  ; 1993  -341-280/81510 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


FIRST  CLASS  MAIL 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


6210.2’ 


12-19-2002 

/ 9 


INSPECTION  OF  POULTRY  FEET 


I.  PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  instructions  to  inspection  program  personnel  for  performing 
inspection  activities  on  poultry  feet  and  to  help  them  decide  whether  the  poultry  feet  are 
eligible  to  receive  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  mark  of 
inspection. 

II.  CANCELLATIONS 

FSIS  Notice  59-01 , Inspection  of  Poultry  Feet  (Paws)  dated  December  21 , 2001 

III.  [Reserved] 

\)  IV.  REFERENCES 
9 CFR  381.79 

V.  BACKGROUND 

Poultry  feet  qualify  to  receive  the  USDA  mark  of  inspection  when  their  identity  is 
maintained  with  the  carcass  through  the  post-mortem  carcass  inspection  process,  and 
they  are  found  to  be  not  adulterated.  Poultry  carcasses  or  feet  passed  for  human  food 
may,  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  381 .79,  receive  the  mark  of  inspection  based  on  an 
examination  of  the  feet  as  well  as  the  carcass  as  a whole. 

VI.  METHODS  FOR  PRODUCING  FEET  ELIGIBLE  FOR  THE  MARK  OF 
INSPECTION 

A.  Under  Inspection  System  Procedure  (ISP)  activity  code  04C01 , inspection 
program  personnel  will  verify  that  establishments  desiring  to  produce  poultry  feet  that 
are  eligible  to  bear  the  mark  of  Inspection  maintain  the  identity  of  the  feet  with  the  rest  of 
the  carcass  from  which  they  were  derived  for  post-mortem  inspection  and  disposition 
purposes  by  employing  one  of  the  following  methods: 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  OPI:  OPPD 

Inpsectors;  Plant  Mgt;T/A  Plant  Mgt; 

TRA;ABB;TSC;lmport  Offices 


1 . Expose  the  hock  joints,  leaving  the  feet  attached  to  the  carcass  by  a 
tendon  or  skin  part,  provided: 

a.  the  feet  do  not  obstruct  the  view  of  the  carcass  in  such  a way  as  to 
hinder  the  inspector’s  ability  to  perfornn  the  established  post-mortem  inspection 
procedure. 


b.  sanitary  conditions  are  maintained. 

2.  Process  detached  poultry  feet  by  a batch  method  that  ensures  that  when 
a single  carcass  is  condemned  on  postmortem,  the  correlative  batch  of  feet  collected  in 
a separate  location  is  condemned,  provided: 

a.  the  batch  method  procedure  to  be  used  is  acceptable  to  the  Inspector- 
in-Charge  (IIC).  (NOTE:  Establishments  may  perform  identification  and  disposition  of 
carcasses  affected  with  systemic  conditions  before  the  carcass/feet  separation.  Such 
an  approach  is  to  be  set  out  in  the  batch  procedure  description.  Carcasses  disposed  of 
by  establishment  personnel  are  reported  as  plant  rejects);  and 

b.  the  procedure  ensures  that  whenever  inspection  program  personnel 
condemn  a carcass  at  any  post-mortem  inspection  station,  the  establishment  helper 
immediately  communicates  the  condemnation  to  management.  In  response, 
management  disposes  of  the  batch  of  poultry  feet  containing  the  feet  from  the 
condemned  carcass. 

VII.  POST-MORTEM  INSPECTION  PROCEDURES  FOR  POULTRY  FEET 

A.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  condemn  carcasses,  including  the  feet,  that 
exhibit  signs  of  systemic  conditions  that  may  render  the  carcass  and  its  parts 
adulterated,  e.g.  septicemia/toxemia  or  leukosis  complex  or  localized  conditions  with 
evidence  of  general  systemic  involvement  e.g.  inflammatory  process  (IP)  with  general 
systemic  disturbance. 

B.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  pass  carcasses,  including  the  feet,  with 
certain  defects  not  requiring  condemnation  of  the  entire  carcass  (localized  defects),  e.g. 
localized  airsacculitis  or  bruises.  Under  any  of  the  regulatory  poultry  slaughter  systems 
(SIS,  NELS,  and  NTI)  except  the  Traditional  Inspection  System,  localized  defects  are 
removed  by  establishment  personnel  subject  to  FSIS  verification  checks. 

VIII.  INSPECTION  PROGRAM  PERSONNEL  VERIFICATION  RESPONSIBILITIES 

Inspection  program  personnel  will  examine  a random  sample  of  processed  or  packed 
feet  and  verify  that  the  product  is  wholesome  and  not  adulterated,  and  that  it  can  bear 
the  mark  of  inspection.  In  addition,  in  establishments  choosing  to  use  a batching 
system,  they  verify  that  the  establishment  is  following  their  batch  method  procedures. 
They  will  also  verify  that  establishments: 


2 


FSIS  Directive  6210.2 


A.  are  maintaining  sanitary  conditions  at  all  times  during  feet  processing,  chilling, 
and  packaging; 

B.  have  considered  whether  there  are  any  food  safety  hazards  that  are  reasonably 
likely  to  occur  In  the  production  of  feet  eligible  for  the  mark  of  inspection  as  part  of  their 
hazard  analysis  (see  9 CFR  417.2);  and 

C.  have  a procedure  in  place  to  ensure  that  feet  with  localized  or  processing 
defects  that  could  render  the  feet  adulterated  are  removed  prior  to  packing.  Localized 
defects  include  sores,  compound  fractures,  and  bruises.  Processing  defects  include 
extraneous  material  (specks,  smears,  attached  or  unattached  cuticle,  or  toenail)  and 
mutilation  (mutilation  to  the  skin  or  muscle).  (NOTE:  Localized  and  processing  defects 
generally  are  not  food  safety  hazards). 

IX.  FURTHER  GUIDANCE 

For  technical  guidance  contact  the  Technical  Service  Center.  For  guidance  related  to 
regulatory  activities  refer  questions  through  supervisory  channels. 

f /I 

Deputy  Administrator 
Office  of  Policy  and  Program 
Development 


3 


United  States  Department  of  AgricuKuie 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
5601  Sunnyside  Avenue,  Mail  Drop  5241 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-5241 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 

USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


6550.1 


12-9-93 


LINE  SPEEDS  FOR  HEAVY  YOUNG  CHICKENS  (BROILERS,  ROASTERS) 


I.  PURPOSE 

This  directive  sets  forth  recommended  maximum  line  speeds  for 
official  establishments  that  process  heavy  young  chickens  under 
the  Streamlined  Inspection  System  and  the  New  Line  Speed 
Inspection  System. 

II.  [RESERVED] 

III.  [RESERVED] 

IV.  REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  381.76  and  381.170 

V.  ABBREVIATIONS 

The  following  will  appear  in  their  abbreviated  form  in  this 
directive : 

lie  Inspector  in  Charge 

MPI  Meat  and  Poultry  Inspection 

NELS  New  Line  Speed  Inspection  System 

SIS  Streamlined  Inspection  System 

SIS-1  Streamlined  Inspection  System  with  one  inspector 

SIS-2  Streamlined  Inspection  System  with  two  inspectors 

VI . BACKGROUND 

A.  Section  381.76  of  the  MPI  regulations  prescribes  maximum 
line  speeds  for  young  chickens  processed  under  SIS  and  NELS.  SIS 
may  be  performed  by  one  inspector  or  two  inspectors.  The  maximum 
line  speed  is  35  birds  per  minute  under  SIS-1  and  70  birds  per 
minute  under  SIS-2.  The  maximum  line  speed  for  NELS  is  91  birds 
per  minute. 

B.  During  the  development  of  SIS  and  NELS  in  the  1980 's, 
FSIS  conducted  studies  to  determine  procedures  and  line  speeds 
for  those  systems.  At  that  time,  young  chickens  weighed  less 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors ,0PI:  S&T/IEES 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


than  6 pounds  and  had  only  a small  amount  of  fat  on  the  abdominal 
flap.  Consequently,  an  inspector  uses  only  one  hand  to 
manipulate  the  abdominal  flap  to  view  the  inside  cavity  of  these 
birds.  The  maximum  line  speeds  prescribed  in  Section  381.76  of 
the  MPI  Regulations  are  based  on  data  gathered  during  studies 
using  broilers  weighing  6 pounds  or  less. 

C.  A significant  number  of  young  chickens  being  processed 
today  weigh  over  6 pounds.  Heavy  young  chickens  tend  to  have 
more  fat  than  the  smaller  birds,  requiring  inspectors  to  use  both 
hands  to  manipulate  the  fatter  abdominal  flaps  for  viewing  the 
inside  cavities  of  the  birds. 

VII.  LINE  SPEED  GUIDELINES — ADJUSTMENTS  FOR  HEAVY  YOUNG 
CHICKENS 

A.  Line  speeds  must  be  adjusted  as  necessary  to  allow  for 
proper  inspection  of  heavy  young  chickens.  It  is  recommended 
that  the  following  line  speeds  not  be  exceeded  to  permit  adequate 
inspection  of  heavy  young  chickens  processed  under  SIS  and  NELS: 

Recommended  Line  Speeds  for  Heavy  Young  Chickens 


SIS-1 

31 

birds 

per 

minute 

SIS-2 

55 

birds 

per 

minute 

NELS 

73 

birds 

per 

minute 

B.  In  each  case,  the  actual  line  speed  may  be  less.  The 
line  speed  must  not  exceed  that  which  permits  adequate 
examination  of  each  carcass  or  part.  Actual  line  speeds  will 
vary,  depending  on  a variety  of  conditions. 

VIII . RESPONSIBILITIES 

A.  IIC: 


1.  Ensure  that  weights  of  heavy  young  chickens  are 
determined  as  necessary  by  randomly  selecting  and  weighing  10 
birds  per  lot  at  the  establishment's  transfer  station.  Weighing 
may  be  done  by  the  establishment  or  inspection  personnel. 

2.  Ensure  that  the  line  speed  is  adjusted  as  necessary 
to  allow  for  proper  inspection  of  heavy  young  chickens.  If  the 
average  weight  of  the  10  young  chickens  exceeds  6 pounds,  the  lot 
is  defined  as  heavy  young  chickens. 


Page  2 


* 


U.S.  G.P.O. : 1993-300-402 :80035/F5IS 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  6550.1 


B.  Establishment: 

1.  Provide  scales  for  random  weighing  at  a location 
acceptable  to  the  IIC. 

2 . Conduct  random  weighing  of  young  chickens  in  a 
manner  acceptable  to  the  IIC. 

3.  Adjust  line  speeds  as  directed  by  the  IIC. 

Any  questions  regarding  this  directive  should  be  referred  to  the 
next  level  of  supervision. 


_ 


_ 

Inspection  Operations 


Page  3 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


/y 

UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
^ y y ^ food  safety  and  inspection  service 

WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


o 


.1 


11/27/2002 


RETAINED  WATER  IN  RAW  MEAT  AND  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


I.  PURPOSE 

This  Directive  provides  instructions  to  inspection  program  personnel  on  the 
procedures  for  conducting  inspection  activities  concerning  the  consumer  protection 
standards  for  retained  water  in  raw  meat  and  poultry  products.  (NOTE:  THIS 
DIRECTIVE  IS  NOT  EFFECTIVE  UNTIL  JANUARY  9,  2003). 

II.  [Reserved] 

III.  [Reserved] 

IV.  REFERENCES 

9 CFR  Section  441.10 

V.  BACKGROUND 

A.  Raw,  single-ingredient  meat  and  poultry  products  that  retain  water  as  the  result  of 
post-evisceration  processing  in  excess  of  naturally  occurring  moisture  are  subject  to  the 
retained  water  regulations.  Section  9 CFR  441 .10,  which  becomes  effective  January  9, 
2003,  allows  for  retained  water  in  raw  livestock  and  poultry  carcasses  and  parts  only  to  the 
extent  that  it  is  an  unavoidable  consequence  of  a process  used  to  meet  applicable  food 
safety  requirements.  The  amount  of  water  retained  in  the  product  in  excess  of  naturally 
occurring  moisture  must  be  prominently  declared  on  the  label.  Any  establishment  that  uses 
a post-evisceration  process  that  results  in  water  retention  in  a raw  livestock  or  poultry 
carcass  or  part  must  maintain  on  file  a written  data-collection  protocol  in  accordance  with  9 
CFR  441.10  (c)(1).  Establishments’  protocols  and  procedures  are  to  be  available  to  FSIS. 
An  establishment  does  not  have  to  maintain  a protocol  on  file  if  it  has  data  or  information 
that  clearly  demonstrate  that  its  products  do  not  retain  water  as  a result  of  the  process,  e.g. 
spraying  boneless  meat  with  antimicrobials  where  the  end  product  does  not  retain  water 
from  the  antimicrobial  application  process. 


DISTRIBUTION:  inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors; 
Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  TSC;  Import  Offices 


OPI:  OPPD 


FSIS  Directive  6700.1 


B.  Establishments  may  include  a no-retained-water  statement  on  the  label  when 
product  has  not  been  exposed  to  a post-evisceration  process  that  adds  water,  or  the 
establishment  has  data  or  information  that  establishes  that  the  process  does  not  add 
water  to  the  product. 

C.  FSIS  does  not  require  official  establishments  to  use  any  specific  method  to  make 
a retained  water  determination.  The  method  chosen  in  calculating  water  absorption  and 
retention,  however,  should  be  reproducible  and  verifiable.  For  example,  an 
establishment  may  use  physical  water  pick-up  tests,  weighing  carcasses  post- 
evisceration, before  the  use  of  water  directly  contacting  product,  and  again  just  prior  to 
final  packaging  and  labeling.  Likewise,  an  establishment  may  develop  its  protocol 
based  on  laboratory  analysis  for  naturally  occurring  and  total  water  content  of  carcasses 
before  and  after  the  application  of  water  for  food  safety  purposes. 

D.  In-plant  inspection  program  personnel  who  have  questions  about  the  validity  of 
the  method  being  used  by  an  establishment  should  consult  the  Technical  Service 
Center  (TSC). 

VI.  POST-EVISCERATION  PROCESS 

A.  The  following  are  examples  of  post  evisceration  processes  involving  the  use  of 
water  that  would  subject  products  to  the  requirements  of  9 CFR  441 .10  (Retained 
Water): 

1 . Post-evisceration  washing  of  livestock  and  poultry  carcasses  with  hot  water, 
cold  water,  or  an  antimicrobial,  including  on-line  reprocessing  systems. 

2.  Livestock  carcass  spray  chilling  with  or  without  an  antimicrobial. 

3.  Water  or  ice  chilling  of  poultry  carcasses  or  giblets  with  or  without  an 
antimicrobial. 

4.  Water  or  ice  chilling  with  or  without  an  antimicrobial  used  to  remove  heat  from 
parts:  hearts,  kidneys,  livers,  tongues,  cheeks,  salivary  glands,  spleens,  pancreases, 
ears,  tails,  or  head  meat  trimmings,  including  head  meat,  cheek  meat,  or  tongue  meat. 

5.  Post  chill  spraying  of  meat  and  poultry  carcasses  or  parts,  with  water  or  an 
antimicrobial  solution. 

6.  Spraying  byproducts  (e.g.  hearts,  livers,  tongues,  cheeks,  salivary  glands, 
spleens,  pancreases,  chitterlings,  stomachs,  ears,  and  tails)  with  an  antimicrobial  after 
they  have  been  converted  from  their  natural  state  to  an  edible  state  (e.g.,  after  the  lining 
has  been  removed  from  tripe,  and  the  tripe  has  been  cleaned). 


2 


FSIS  Directive  6700.1 

7.  Spraying  bones  with  an  antimicrobial  used  for  advanced  meat  recovery  systems 
or  for  mechanical  deboning. 

8.  Spraying  meat  trimmings,  including  head  meat,  cheek  meat,  or  tongue  meat, 
with  an  antimicrobial  solution. 

B.  The  following  are  examples  of  post  evisceration  processes  involving  the  use  of 
water  that  would  not  subject  products  to  9 CFR  441 .10. 

1.  Flushing  stomachs,  small  intestines,  large  intestines,  rectum,  braided  marrow 
gut,  and  chitterlings  to  remove  digestive  tract  contents. 

2.  Scalding  of  pork  stomachs,  pork  tongues,  and  beef  lips,  intestines,  and 
stomachs. 

3.  Flushing  the  gizzard  with  water  to  remove  digestive  tract  contents. 

4.  Washing  with  water  to  remove  excess  blood,  e.g.  washing  hearts,  livers,  brains, 
and  tendons. 

5.  Washing  beef  heads  with  water. 

Note:  On  a case-by-case  basis,  the  Inspector-in-Charge  (1 1C),  In  consultation  with  his 
or  her  supervisor  and  the  TSC,  will  evaluate  other  post  evisceration  processes  involving 
the  use  of  water  to  determine  whether  the  resulting  products  are  subject  to  9 CFR 
441.10. 

VII.  VERIFICATION  PROCEDURES 

A.  When  directed  by  PBIS-generated  procedure  04B04,  the  1 1C  will  verify  the 
establishment’s  compliance  with  the  other  consumer  protection  (OCR)  requirements  of 
9 CFR  441.10  by  reviewing  and  analyzing  the  establishment’s  data  and  by  observing 
the  processes  carried  out  by  the  establishment.  The  IIC  will: 

1 . verify  that  the  establishment  has  on  file  and  available  to  FSIS  its  written  data- 
collection  protocol  (9  CFR  441.10(c)(1))  or  data  that  demonstrate  that  the  process  does 
not  result  in  retained  water  in  excess  of  naturally  occurring  moisture;  and 

2.  review  all  changes  or  revisions  to  an  existing  protocol.  An  IIC  should  inform  an 
establishment  that  it  should  notify  him  or  her  whenever  it  has  a new  protocol,  has  made 
changes  to  an  existing  protocol,  or  has  changed  its  processing  procedures  In  a manner 
that  would  require  a new  or  revised  protocol. 


3 


Note:  Establishments  that  develop  new  protocols  or  revise  existing  protocols  should 
submit  the  new  or  revised  protocol  to  FSIS  for  review  by  the  Technology  Program 
Development  Staff  (TPDS)  of  the  Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development  (OPPD): 

by  mail  to:  USDA/FSIS/OPPD/TPDS 

1400  Independence  Ave.,  SW 
Room  405 
Cotton  Annex 
Washington,  DC  20250; 
or  by  fax  to:  (202)  205-0080; 
or  by  e-mail  to:  tpds.protocols@usda.gov 

9 CFR  441.10(d)  lists  the  elements  to  be  included  in  the  protocol.  FSIS  will  notify 
establishments  of  the  outcome  of  the  review  in  no  more  than  30  days  after  the  Agency 
receives  the  protocol  with  either  a no-objection  letter,  or  a letter  listing  the  Agency’s 
objections  to  the  submitted  protocol.  Establishments  may  choose  to  implement  a new  or 
revised  protocol  and  use  a label  reflecting  the  new  percentage  water  gain  before 
receiving  FSIS  notification  of  the  review  outcome.  If  the  FSIS  protocol  review  identified 
objections  or  requires  changes  to  the  submitted  protocol,  the  establishment  will  be 
expected  to  modify  the  protocol,  and  if  necessary,  the  retained  water  statement. 

3.  Verify  that  the  establishment  is  following  its  protocol,  and  that  the  protocol 
reflects  the  actual  processing  system  in  use. 

4.  Calculate  the  total  retained  water  in  the  product  using  establishment  data  to 
verify  that  the  percent  retained  water  declared  on  the  label  is  supported  by  the  data 
generated  by  the  protocol.  The  percent  retained  water  should  be  within  the  sampling 
variability  or  the  allowed  labeling  variation.  That  is,  continuing  measurements  of  actual 
retained  water  demonstrate  that  it  is  within  20  percent  of  the  declared  retained  water 
level  for  the  product. 

B.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  document  non-compliances  on  a Non- 
Compliance  Record  (NR),  FSIS  Form  5400-4,  if: 

1 . the  establishment  has  a product  covered  by  9 CFR  441 .10  without  a protocol  or 
data  or  information  that  clearly  demonstrate  that  the  product  does  not  retain  water  as  a 
result  of  a given  process; 

2.  the  establishment  is  not  following  the  written  protocol; 

3.  the  retained  water  declared  on  the  label  is  less  than  the  level  actually  retained 
in  the  product  as  determined  using  the  protocol,  considering  the  allowable  and 
appropriate  variation;  or 

4.  the  establishment  records  are  incomplete  and  do  not  allow  for  the  verification  of 
the  accuracy  of  the  retained  water  label  declaration. 


4 


FSIS  Directive  6700.1 


Note:  IICs  who,  based  on  observation  or  data  analysis  and  actual  calculations,  have 
reason  to  believe  that  an  establishment  may  be  systematically  adulterating  or 
misbranding  its  products  should  submit  their  information  through  supervisory  channels 
to  the  district  office.  The  District  Manager  will  determine  the  course  of  action  to  take.) 

VIII.  LABELING  REQUIREMENTS 

A.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  verify  that  the  labeling  of  raw  single- 
ingredient  products  accurately  declares  any  water  retained  by  carcasses  or  parts  of 
carcasses  resulting  from  post-evisceration  processing  that  was  done  to  meet  applicable 
food  safety  requirements.  Carcasses  or  parts  of  carcasses  may  be  whole,  cut-up,  or 
ground.  Refer  to  attachment  1 and  2 for  additional  labeling  questions  and  answers  and 
examples  of  products.  Some  labeling  principles  are: 

1.  Any  water  retained  besides  naturally  occurring  moisture  in  such  products  must 
be  reflected  in  a prominent  statement  on  the  principal  display  panel  of  the  product  label, 
e.g.,  up  to  X percent  retained  water,  or  may  contain  up  to  X percent  absorbed  water. 

2.  The  generic  labeling  regulations  9 CFR  317.5  and  9 CFR  381.133  and  the 
nutrition  labeling  regulations  in  Part  317  Subpart  B and  Part  381  Subpart  N apply  to 
retained  water  products  as  they  apply  to  other  single-ingredient  products. 

3.  The  permitted  labeling  variation  is  20  percent  from  the  declared  amount  within 
the  retained  water  statement. 

B.  Multi-ingredient  product  labeling  is  not  affected  by  retained  water  in  a meat  or 
poultry  component.  Thus,  retained  water  is  not  an  ingredient,  and  the  retained  water 
statement  on  meat  or  poultry  components  is  not  an  ingredient  declaration.  Refer  to 
attachment  2 for  multi-ingredient  product  examples. 

1 . Any  retained  water  in  raw  meat  or  poultry  items  used  as  Ingredients  would  not 
be  declared  on  the  labeling  of  multi-ingredient  products,  e.g.,  raw  or  cooked  sausage, 
pre-basted  turkeys,  or  deli  meats. 

2.  Retained  water  has  no  effect  on  the  declared  amount  of  flavor  solution  in 
basted,  marinated,  injected,  tumbled,  etc.  products. 

3.  Standards  of  Identity  or  composition  are  not  affected  by  the  retained  water  rule. 

IX.  IMPORT  PRODUCT 

Import  raw  single  ingredient  meat  and  poultry  products  that  bear  an  X percent  retained 
water  statement,  or  a statement  declaring  no  retained  water,  may  be  sampled 
periodically  during  port-of-entry  reinspection  to  verify  labeling  claims.  Exporting  country 


5 


inspection  systems  are  responsible  for  performing  functions  equivalent  to  those  set  forth 
in  this  Directive  and  for  certifying  that  products  for  export  to  the  United  States  meet 
FSIS  import  requirements.  FSIS  will  verify  the  equivalence  of  exporting  country  water 
retention  regulatory  programs  during  annual  on-site  audits. 


Deputy' Administrator 

Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development 


6 


FSIS  Directive  6700.1 
Attachment  1 

Additional  Labeling  Questions  and  Answers 

1 . If  a plant  determines  through  testing  that  the  amount  of  retained  moisture  in  a 
particular  item  is  a fractional  percentage  (e.g.,  0.3,  0.4,  0.5,  or  1.3  percent,  etc.),  how 
would  the  agency  expect  this  to  be  labeled? 

Answer:  As  with  nutritional  labeling,  rounding  rules  would  apply  (i.e.,  round  to  the 
nearest  whole  number).  Therefore,  labeling  of  fractional  percentages  of  retained  water 
would  not  be  required.  For  example,  0.5  percent-retained  water  is  rounded  up  to  1 
percent  and  1.3  percent  is  rounded  down  to  1 percent. 

2.  Are  labeling  statements  permitted  explaining  the  purpose  of  the  retained  water, 
e.g.,  “for  safety  purposes  contains  up  to  X percent  retained  water?” 

Answer:  Explanatory  statements  regarding  the  retained  water  will  be  reviewed  by 
the  Labeling  and  Consumer  Protection  Staff  on  a case-by-case  basis  since  they  are 
viewed  as  special  claims.  The  statements  will  be  evaluated  to  determine  whether  they 
misrepresent  products  or  imply  that  products  are  safer  than  other  similarly  chilled 
products. 

3.  Is  there  a size  requirement  for  the  prominent  lettering  in  the  retained-water 
statement? 

Answer:  There  is  no  letter  size  requirement  for  the  percent-retained-water 
statement,  but  if  the  lettering  Is  inconspicuous  or  not  visible  to  consumers  with  normal 
visual  acuity,  it  is  not  prominent.  Prominence  is  determined  by  several  factors,  including 
size  of  lettering  In  the  statement  compared  with  other  lettering  on  the  label,  location  of 
the  statement,  and  color  contrast  between  the  lettering  and  the  background. 

4.  Can  the  term  “moisture”  be  used  instead  of  the  term  “water”  within  the  retained 
water  statement? 

Answer:  The  term  “moisture”  is  not  acceptable  since  it  does  not  convey  the 
specific  substance  used  during  the  post-evisceration  chilling  of  the  product. 

5.  Is  the  retained  water  statement  required  on  a shipping  container  label  when  the 
product  inside  is  packaged  and  labeled? 

Answer:  The  shipping  container  Is  not  required  to  bear  a retained  water  statement 
since  the  regulation  addressing  the  labeling  of  retained  water  products  applies  to  the 
principal  display  panel  of  immediate  containers.  Shipping  containers  holding  packaged 
and  labeled  products  do  not  have  principal  display  panels. 


7 


6.  Most  meat  carcasses,  half  carcasses,  and  primals  are  shipped  from  the 
establishment  with  only  the  mark  of  inspection  identifying  them.  If  the  carcass  gains 
water  as  a result  of  the  chilling  process,  a water  retention  statement  is  required.  How 
could  an  establishment  meet  this  requirement  if  it  is  shipping  full  and  half  carcasses  and 
primals  to  other  establishments  for  further  processing  into  retail  cuts,  ground  beef,  etc? 

Answer:  Retained  water  in  red  meat  carcasses,  half  carcasses,  quarters,  primals, 
or  byproducts  that  are  simply  branded  with  a mark  of  inspection  would  also  need  to  be 
declared  with  a prominent  retained  water  statement.  This  could  be  accomplished  by 
adding  the  retained  water  statement  by  branding  or  affixing  with  a secure  tag. 

7.  Can  pressure  sensitive  stickers  be  used  to  modify  the  percent-retained  water 
statement  and  is  handwriting  permitted  for  the  value  of  the  retained  water? 

Answer:  Pressure  sensitive  stickers  may  be  applied  to  labeling  to  modify  the 
percent-retained  water  statement.  This  type  of  change  is  a generic  approval. 
Handwriting  is  not  permitted  for  the  value  of  the  retained  water  because  a legibility 
factor  involved  with  handwriting.  The  value  should  be  uniform  and  produced  by 
mechanical  means  as  with  other  mandatory  features. 

8.  The  label  contains  a “no  retained  water”  claim.  Does  the  20  percent  variation 
apply? 

Answer:  The  20  percent  variation  permitted  for  the  retained  water  statement  would 
not  apply  when  a no  retained  water  claim  is  made  on  labeling.  Rounding  rules  apply. 
Thus,  the  product  could  not  retain  more  than  0.49  percent  water  such  that  the  rounded 
amount  of  water  is  0 percent. 

9.  How  does  retained  water  affect  restricted  ingredients,  e.g.,  bacon? 

Answer:  The  levels  for  restricted  ingredients  remain  the  same  as  indicated  in  the 
substance  chart,  9 CFR  424.21(c),  e.g.,  sodium  nitrite  and  sodium  erythorbate  are 
based  on  the  weight  of  the  meat  or  poultry  product  regardless  of  the  amount  of  water 
possibly  retained  in  the  meat  or  poultry  as  a result  of  post-evisceration  processing. 

10.  Does  the  regulation  cover  products  that  may  be  treated  with  water  which 
produces  no  gain  in  net  weight  of  the  finished  product? 

Answer:  The  regulation,  including  its  requirement  of  the  submission  of  protocols, 
deals  with  products  for  which  the  manufacturer  anticipates  a particular 
moisture-based  weight  gain,  is  targeting  its  procedures  to  control  that  gain,  and  will 
label  its  products  accordingly.  As  a result,  establishments  that  anticipate  zero  weight 
gain  are  not  required  to  develop  and  submit  protocols.  Such  establishments  should, 
however,  maintain  records  that  demonstrate  through  data  or  information  that  their 
product  does  not  gain  water  as  a result  of  the  process. 


8 


1 1 . Does  the  regulation  apply  to  intermediate  (in-process)  processing  steps? 

Answer:  No.  The  regulation  focuses  on  the  labeling  of  single-ingredient  finished 
products  as  they  leave  the  establishment.  Procedures,  such  as  the  application  of 
antimicrobial  solutions  or  of  water  that  may  temporarily  contribute  weight  to  the  product, 
need  not  be  declared.  However,  establishments  are  expected  to  maintain  data  clearly 
demonstrating  that  the  finished  products  do  not  retain  water. 

12.  Is  It  acceptable  to  export  products  with  retained  water  without  labeling  bearing  a 
percentage  retained  water  statement? 

Answer:  Deviations  from  domestic  labeling  rules  are  permitted  in  accordance  with 
9 CFR  317.7  or  381.128.  However,  the  labeling  record  should  contain  documentation  in 
the  form  of  a letter  that  is  required  from  an  official  with  the  foreign  government  or  the 
importer  in  the  country  to  which  the  product  is  destined.  The  letter  would  specify  that 
country's  laws  that  would  permit  the  deviations. 

13.  Can  one  letter  be  applied  to  multiple  products  for  export? 

Answer:  Yes,  if  the  letter  is  complete  by  indicating  all  exported  products  with 
labeling  deviations  and  is  only  for  the  country  to  which  the  products  are  destined. 

14.  Does  the  retained  water  rule  apply  to  Ice-glazed  poultry? 

Answer:  Yes.  A retained  water  statement  is  required  because  the  product  is  single 
ingredient  regardless  of  whether  the  product  is  ice-glazed  or  not.  The  ice-glaze  is  not  an 
ingredient;  its  purpose  is  to  prevent  shrinkage  during  freezing. 

15.  How  are  single-ingredient  products  with  retained  water  (e.g.,  bearing  contains  X 
percent  retained  water  statements)  handled  when  they  are  sent  in  bulk  to  retail  stores 
for  packaging?  What  effect  would  in-store  cut-up  or  grinding  operations  have  on  the 
labeling  of  single-ingredient  products  with  retained  water  at  the  retail  store? 

Answer:  The  retained  water  statement  that  is  applied  to  the  cuts  or  ground 
products  would  be  the  same  as  the  retained  water  statement  that  was  applied  to  the 
bulk  product.  However,  the  retail  store  may  choose  to  show  through  documentation  that 
less  or  no  water  is  retained  in  the  cuts  or  ground  product  and  to  label  the  product 
accordingly. 

16.  What  happens  to  a product  when  the  retained  water  declaration  exceeds  the  20 
percent  label  declaration? 

Answer:  The  company  has  two  options.  One  Is  to  accurately  relabel  the  product. 
The  other  option  would  be  to  allow  the  product  to  drain  so  that  the  retained  water 
statement  is  truthful.  This  may  involve  re-packaging  the  product  unless  the  product  is 
ice  pack  poultry  in  drainable  containers. 


9 


17.  How  is  the  retained  water  statement  handled  with  chitterlings  since  the  product  is 
allowed  to  be  packaged  with  up  to  a 20  percent  purge? 

Answer:  Many  years  ago,  before  1992,  FSIS  allowed,  under  normal  conditions 
and  good  manufacturing  practices,  purge  in  containers  of  chitterlings  not  to  exceed  20 
percent  of  the  marked  weight  of  the  product.  The  policy  is  long-held  and  is  practiced 
industry  wide.  Consumers  who  purchase  this  product  are  aware  of  the  policy  and 
practice  and  have  come  to  expect  moisture  content  in  chitterlings.  As  a result  of  this 
long-standing  policy,  no  retained  water  statement  is  required  when  chitterlings  are 
packaged  with  a purge.  If  chitterlings  retain  water  during  post  evisceration  processing 
and  are  not  packaged  with  a purge,  the  product’s  labeling  is  required  to  bear  a retained 
water  statement. 

18.  What  is  FSIS  position  regarding  the  use  of  water  in  thawing  process? 

Answer:  Frozen  meat,  meat  byproducts,  poultry,  or  poultry  byproducts  are  often 
thawed  using  chilled  water.  Establishments  have  to  assess  whether  the  product  is 
absorbing  water  during  the  thawing  process.  If  the  final  product  Is  raw,  single- 
ingredient, and  absorbed  water  during  the  thawing  process,  a retained  water  statement 
is  necessary.  However,  if  the  final  product  is  subsequently  processed  into  a multi- 
ingredient item  or  cooked,  the  retained  water  is  not  a labeling  or  standards  concern. 


10 


FSIS  Directive  6700.1 
Attachment  2 


Product  Examples 


Example  1 

Basted  turkey  injected  with  up  to  3 percent  flavor  solution  is  made  with  turkey  containing 
3 percent  absorbed  water.  The  ingredient  declaration  would  not  identify  any  retained 
water  in  the  turkey  that  would  have  possibly  been  absorbed  during  post  evisceration 
processing  in  the  slaughter  establishment  because  the  retained  water  is  not  an 
ingredient.  The  retained  water  in  the  turkey  would  not  affect  the  3 percent  flavor 
solution  injected  into  the  product  and  declared  as  part  of  the  product  name. 

Example  2 

Beef  and  Turkey  Italian  Sausage  contains  starting  material  that  Is  labeled  as  “turkey 
containing  3 percent  retained  water.”  The  ingredient  declaration  would  not  identify  the 
retained  water  in  the  turkey  because  the  retained  water  Is  not  an  ingredient.  The  post 
evisceration  retained  water  in  the  turkey  would  not  affect  the  3 percent  added  water  limit 
for  the  finished  product  that  is  established  by  the  standard  of  identity  or  composition. 
Water  adedd  to  facilitate  mixing  to  dissolve  ingredients  is  an  ingredient  and  is  permitted 
up  to  3 percent  in  raw  sausage. 

Example  3: 

When  beef  trimmings  that  have  been  sprayed  with  chilled  water  so  that  they  contain  5 
percent  retained  water  are  used  to  make  a single  ingredient  raw  ground  product,  like 
ground  beef  or  hamburger,  the  resulting  product  must  be  labeled  to  declare  any 
retained  water  above  naturally  occurring  water.  Also,  single-ingredient  ground  poultry 
produced  from  poultry  containing  retained  water  would  be  required  to  be  labeled  to 
declare  any  retained  water  above  naturally  occurring  water.  The  retained  water  would 
not  affect  compliance  with  the  standard,  i.e.,  no  added  water,  because  retained  water  is 
not  an  ingredient.  If  the  products  were  subsequently  cooked,  the  retained  water  would 
have  no  effect  on  the  finished  product  or  it’s  labeling. 


11 


UnKed  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
Fbod  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
5601  Sunnyside  Avenue,  Mail  Drop  5241 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-5241 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 
USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


-I5i6 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 


WASHINGTON,  DC 

‘ FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


6900.2 


10/7/03  0 P 


’ P \/ 


r). 


20 


Humane  Handling  and  Slaughter  of  Livestock 


PART  I --  General 


I.  Purpose 

This  directive  informs  inspection  program  personnel  of  the  requirements,  verification 
activities,  and  enforcement  actions  for  ensuring  that  the  handling  and  slaughter  of 
livestock,  including  the  slaughter  of  livestock  by  religious  ritual  methods,  is  humane. 
This  directive  explains  how  inspection  program  personnel  should  approach  these 
activities. 


I 


II.  [Reserved] 

III.  [Reserved] 

IV.  References 


9 CFR  parts  313  and  500,  the  Humane  Methods  of  Slaughter  Act  > 7 U.S.C.  1901, 
1902,  and  1906,  and  FSIS  Directive  6900.1  - Humane  Handling  of  Disabled  Livestock. 

V.  Background 

A.  The  Humane  Methods  of  Slaughter  Act  of  1978  (HMSA)  (Section  1901,  1902  and 
1906,  Attachment  1 ) states  that  the  slaughtering  and  handling  of  livestock  are  to  be 
carried  out  only  by  humane  methods.  In  that  Act,  Congress  determined  (among  other 
things)  that  the  use  of  humane  methods  of  handling  and  slaughtering  livestock  prevents 
needless  suffering  of  animals  and  results  in  safer  and  better  working  conditions  for 
employees  in  slaughter  establishments. 

B.  Once  a vehicle  carrying  livestock  enters  an  official  slaughter  establishment’s 
premises,  the  vehicle  is  considered  to  be  a part  of  that  establishment’s  premises.  The 
animals  within  that  vehicle  are  to  be  handled  in  accordance  with  313.2. 


► 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors; 
Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  TSC;  Import 
Offices 


OPI:  OPPD 


PART  II  - Verification  of  the  Livestock  Pens,  Driveways  and  Ramps 

A.  What  are  the  regulations  related  to  livestock  pens,  driveways  and 
ramps? 

Section  313.1  states: 

(a)  Livestock  pens,  driveways  and  ramps  shall  be  maintained  in  good  repair.  They 
shall  be  free  from  sharp  or  protruding  objects  which  may,  in  the  opinion  of  the  inspector, 
cause  injury  or  pain  to  the  animals.  Loose  boards,  splintered  or  broken  planking  and 
unnecessary  openings  where  the  head,  feet,  or  legs  of  an  animal  may  be  injured  shall 
be  repaired. 

{b)  Floors  of  livestock  pens,  ramps,  and  driveways  shall  be  constructed  and 
maintained  so  as  to  provide  good  footing  for  livestock.  Slip  resistant  or  waffled  floor 
surfaces,  cleated  ramps  and  the  use  of  sand,  as  appropriate,  during  winter  months  are 
examples  of  acceptable  construction  and  maintenance. 

(d)  Livestock  pens  and  driveways  shall  be  so  arranged  that  sharp  corners  and 
direction  reversal  of  driven  animals  are  minimized. 

NOTE:  Verification  of  compliance  with  9 CFR  313.1(c)  is  addressed  in  FSIS  Directive 
6900.1,  Humane  Handling  of  Disabled  Livestock. 

B.  How  do  inspection  program  personnel  verify  compliance  with  this 
regulation? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  313.1(a),  (b),  and  (d),  inspection  program 
personnel  should  determine  whether  the  pens,  driveways,  and  ramps  are  designed  and 
maintained  to  prevent  injury  or  pain  to  the  animals.  To  do  this,  inspection  program 
personnel  need  to  seek  answers  to  questions  such  as: 

1 . Are  pens  free  of  loose  boards  or  openings,  so  that  the  head,  feet  or  legs  of  an 
animal  will  not  be  injured? 

2.  Are  the  floors  of  pens,  ramps,  and  driveways  constructed  so  that  an  animal  is 
not  likely  to  fall  (e.g.,  cleated,  waffled,  use  of  sand)? 

3.  Are  driveways  arranged  so  that  sharp  turns  or  sudden  reversals  of  direction 
are  minimized,  so  that  they  are  not  likely  to  cause  injury  to  the  animals? 

These  questions  are  examples  and  are  not  an  all-inclusive  list. 

C.  What  actions  do  inspection  program  personnel  take  if  there  is  a 
noncompliance  with  9 CFR  313.1? 

If  inspection  program  personnel  observe  a noncompliance  with  9 CFR  313.1,  they 
are  to  determine  whether  the  situation  does  or  will  immediately  lead  to  animal  injury  or 
inhumane  treatment.  If  the  noncompliance  is  such  that  it  will  not  immediately  lead  to 
injury  (e.g.,  a few  loose  boards),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  action  as  set 
out  in  Part  VI  A.  If  the  noncompliance  is  such  that  an  animal  has  been  injured 
(e.g.,  an  animal’s  leg  falls  in  between  boards),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take 
action  as  set  out  in  Part  VI  B. 


2 


FSIS  Directive  6900.2 


PART  III  - Verification  of  Humane  Handling  of  Livestock 

A.  What  is  the  reguiation  reiated  to  handling  of  livestock? 

Section  313.2  states: 

(a)  Driving  of  livestock  from  the  unloading  ramps  to  the  holding  pens  and  from  the 
holding  pens  to  the  stunning  area  shall  be  done  with  a minimum  of  excitement  and 
discomfort  to  the  animals.  Livestock  shall  not  be  forced  to  move  faster  than  a normal 
walking  speed. 

(b)  Electric  prods,  canvas  slappers,  or  other  implements  employed  to  drive  animals 
shall  be  used  as  little  as  possible  in  order  to  minimize  excitement  and  injury.  Any  use  of 
such  implements  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  inspector,  is  excessive,  is  prohibited. 
Electrical  prods  attached  to  AC  house  current  shall  be  reduced  by  a transformer  to  the 
lowest  effective  voltage  not  to  exceed  50  volts  AC. 

(c)  Pipes,  sharp  or  pointed  objects,  and  other  items  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
inspector,  would  cause  injury  or  unnecessary  pain  to  the  animal  shall  not  be  used  to 
drive  livestock. 

{d)  Disabled  livestock  and  other  animals  unable  to  move.  (Also  refer  to  FSIS 
Directive  6900.1,  Humane  Handling  of  Disabled  Livestock). 

(1)  Disabled  animals  and  other  animals  unable  to  move  shall  be  separated  from 
normal  ambulatory  animals  and  placed  in  the  covered  pen  provided  for  in  section 
313.1(c). 

(2)  The  dragging  of  disabled  animals  and  other  animals  unable  to  move,  while 
conscious,  is  prohibited.  Stunned  animals  may,  however,  be  dragged. 

(3)  Disabled  animals  and  other  animals  unable  to  move  may  be  moved,  while 
conscious,  on  equipment  suitable  for  such  purposes;  e.g.,  stone  boats. 

(e)  Animals  shall  have  access  to  water  in  all  holding  pens  and,  if  held  longer  than  24 
hours,  access  to  feed.  There  shall  be  sufficient  room  in  the  holding  pen  for  animals  held 
overnight  to  lie  down. 

(f)  Stunning  methods  approved  in  section313.30  shall  be  effectively  applied  to 
animals  prior  to  their  being  shackled,  hoisted,  thrown,  cast  or  cut. 

B.  How  do  inspection  program  personnel  verify  compliance  with  these 
regulations? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  313.2,  inspection  program  personnel 
should  determine  whether  the  handling  of  livestock  is  being  done  with  a minimum  of 
excitement  and  discomfort  to  the  animals.  Inspection  program  personnel  will  verify  the 
moving  of  livestock,  the  availability  of  water  and  the  handling  of  disabled  livestock  in  the 
establishment.  To  do  this,  inspection  program  personnel  need  to  seek  answers  to 
questions  such  as: 

1 . Are  animals  driven  from  the  unloading  ramps  to  the  holding  pens  with  a 
minimum  of  excitement  and  not  at  a running  pace? 

2.  Are  electric  prods  and  other  implements  used  as  little  as  possible  to  move 
animals  within  the  establishment? 


3 


3.  Are  animals  driven  by  using  an  object  that  would  not  cause  unnecessary 
pain  (e.g.,  not  using  a sharp  object  or  pipe)? 

4.  Are  disabled  animals  separated  from  ambulatory  animals  and  placed  in  a 
covered  pen? 

5.  Do  the  animals  have  access  to  water? 

6.  Is  there  sufficient  room  in  the  holding  pens  for  animals  that  are  held  over 

night? 

The  above  questions  are  examples  and  are  not  an  all-inclusive  list. 

NOTE:  Verification  of  compliance  with  9 CFR  313.2(d)  that  deals  specifically  with 
disabled  livestock,  is  also  addressed  in  FSIS  Directive  6900.1,  Humane  Handling  of 
Disabled  Livestock. 

C.  What  actions  do  inspection  program  personnei  take  if  there  is  a 
noncompliance  with  9 CFR  313.2? 

If  Inspection  program  personnel  observe  a noncompliance  with  9 CFR  313.2,  they 
are  to  determine  whether  the  situation  does  or  will  immediately  lead  to  animal  injury  or 
inhumane  treatment.  If  the  noncompliance  can  be  immediately  remedied  (e.g., 
providing  water  to  penned  animals),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  the  action 
as  set  out  In  Part  VI  A 1 and  2.  If  an  Immediate  remedy  is  not  forthcoming  (e.g.,  the 
establishment  fails  to  provide  water  immediately  after  being  notified  that  animals  do  not 
have  water  available),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  the  action  as  set  out  In 
Part  VI  A 3.  If  the  noncompliance  Is  resulting  in  the  Injury  or  inhumane  treatment  of 
animals  (e.g.,  the  dragging  of  disabled  animals),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to 
take  action  as  set  out  in  Part  VI  B. 

PART  IV  - Stunning  Methods 

Appropriate  stunning  methods  are  required  for  an  establishment  to  be  in 
compliance  with  the  HMSA.  When  stunning  is  done  correctly,  animals  feel  no  pain,  are 
rendered  instantly  unconscious,  and  remain  unconscious  until  slaughtered.  There  are 
four  methods  of  stunning  approved  for  livestock.  A summary  of  these  approved 
stunning  methods  appear  below  (refer  to  9 CFR  sections  313.5,  313.15,  313.16  and 
313.30). 

A.  What  are  the  general  regulatory  requirements  related  to  approved 
stunning  methods? 

Chemical;  carbon  dioxide 

Regulatory  requirements  for  the  use  of  carbon  dioxide  as  a humane  method  of 
slaughter  are  specified  in  section  313.5  and  include,  among  other  things,  the  following: 

1)  Carbon  dioxide  gas  may  be  used  to  slaughter  and  handle  sheep,  calves  and  swine. 


4 


FSIS  Directive  6900.2 


2)  The  carbon  dioxide  gas  shall  be  administered  in  a chamber  so  as  to  produce 
surgical  anesthesia  (a  state  where  an  animal  feels  no  painful  sensation)  before  the 
animal  Is  shackled,  hoisted,  thrown,  cast,  or  cut.  Animals  shall  be  exposed  to  the 
carbon  dioxide  gas  in  a way  that  will  accomplish  the  anesthesia  quickly  and  calmly. 

3)  Gas  concentrations  and  exposure  times  shall  be  graphically  recorded  throughout 
each  day’s  operation. 

4)  It  is  necessary  that  the  operator  be  skilled,  attentive,  and  aware  of  his  or  her 
responsibility. 

Mechanical;  captive  bolt 

Regulatory  requirements  for  the  use  of  captive  bolt  stunners  as  a humane  method  of 
slaughter  are  specified  in  section  313.15  and  Include,  among  other  things,  the  following: 

1)  Captive  bolt  stunners  may  be  used  to  slaughter  and  handle  sheep,  swine,  goats, 
calves,  cattle,  horses,  mules,  and  other  equines. 

2)  The  captive  bolt  stunners  shall  be  applied  to  livestock  so  as  to  produce  immediate 
unconsciousness  In  the  animals  before  they  are  shackled,  hoisted,  thrown,  cast,  or  cut. 

3)  The  stunning  operation  is  an  exacting  procedure  and  requires  a well-trained  and 
experienced  operator  who  must  use  the  correct  detonating  charge  with  regard  to  kind, 
breed,  size,  age,  and  sex  of  the  animal  to  produce  the  desired  results. 

4)  Stunning  instruments  must  be  maintained  in  good  repair. 

Mechanical;  gunshot 

Regulatory  requirements  for  the  use  of  gunshot  as  a humane  method  of  slaughter  are 
specified  in  section  313.16  and  include,  among  other  things,  the  following: 

1)  Shooting  by  firearms  may  be  used  to  slaughter  and  handle  cattle,  calves,  sheep, 
swine,  goats,  horses,  mules,  and  other  equines. 

2)  A single  shot  delivery  of  a bullet  or  projectile  into  the  animal  is  to  produce  Immediate 
unconsciousness  in  the  animal  before  It  Is  shackled,  hoisted,  thrown,  cast  or  cut. 

3)  Firearms  must  be  maintained  in  good  repair. 

4)  The  shooting  operation  is  an  exacting  procedure  and  requires  a well-trained  and 
experienced  operator  who  must  be  able  to  accurately  direct  the  projectile  to  produce 
Immediate  unconsciousness. 

5)  The  operator  must  use  the  correct  caliber  firearm,  powder  charge  and  type  of 
ammunition  to  produce  instant  unconsciousness  In  the  animal. 

Electrical;  stunning  or  slaughtering  with  electric  current 

Regulatory  requirements  for  the  use  of  electric  current  as  a humane  method  of 
slaughter  are  specified  in  section  313.30  and  Include,  among  other  things,  the  following: 

1)  Electric  current  may  be  used  to  slaughter  and  handle  swine,  sheep,  calves,  cattle, 
and  goats. 


5 


2)  The  animal  shall  be  exposed  to  the  electric  current  in  a way  that  will  accomplish 
surgical  anesthesia  (a  state  where  an  animal  feels  no  painful  sensation)  quickly  and 
effectively  before  they  are  shackled,  hoisted,  thrown,  cast,  or  cut. 

3)  It  is  necessary  that  the  operator  of  electric  current  application  equipment  be  skilled, 
attentive,  and  aware  of  his  or  her  responsibility. 

4)  Suitable  timing,  voltage  and  current  control  devices  shall  be  used  to  ensure  that  each 
animal  receives  the  necessary  electrical  charge  to  produce  immediate 
unconsciousness. 

B.  How  do  inspection  program  personnel  verify  compliance  with  these 
regulations? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  9 CFR  313.5,  313.15,  313.16,  and  313.30, 
inspection  program  personnel  should  assess  the  stunning  method  used  for  its 
effectiveness  in  rendering  animals  immediately  unconscious  and  verify  that  animals  are 
being  properly  stunned  at  the  knocking  box  before  hoisting.  To  do  this,  inspection 
program  personnel  need  to  seek  answers  to  questions  such  as: 

1 . During  stunning  operations,  is  the  establishment  consistently  rendering 
animals  unconscious  with  a single  application  of  the  stunning  methodology? 

2.  Is  stunning  equipment  in  good  repair? 

3.  Are  carbon  dioxide  gas  concentrations  graphically  recorded  throughout 
each  day’s  stunning  operation  so  that  the  correct  amount  of  gas  Is  used  to  adequately 
anesthetize  an  animal? 

4.  Is  the  captive  bolt  stunner  accurately  placed  so  that  after  it  is  applied  the 
animal  is  immediately  unconscious? 

5.  Is  the  correct  caliber  firearm  being  used  to  produce  quick  and  complete 
unconsciousness  in  an  animal? 

6.  Is  the  proper  voltage  of  electric  current  being  used  so  that  the  animal  is 
quickly  rendered  unconscious? 

NOTE:  The  above  questions  are  examples  and  are  not  an  all-inclusive  list. 

C.  What  actions  do  inspection  program  personnel  take  if  there  is  a 
noncompliance  with  9 CFR  313.5,  313.15,  313.16,  or  313.30? 

If  inspection  program  personnel  observe  a noncompliance  with  9 CFR  313.5,  313.15, 
313.16,  or  313.30,  they  are  to  determine  whether  the  situation  does  or  will  immediately 
lead  to  animal  injury  or  inhumane  treatment.  If  the  noncompliance  is  such  that  animals 
will  not  be  injured  or  treated  inhumanely  (e.g.,  the  gas  concentration  was  not  graphically 
recorded,  but  the  establishment  showed  that  the  proper  concentration  was 
administered),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  an  action  as  set  out  In  Part  VI 
A.  If  the  noncompliance  is  resulting  in  the  injury  or  inhumane  treatment  of  animals  (e.g., 
an  animal  is  not  properly  rendered  unconscious)  inspection  program  personnel  are  to 
take  action  as  set  out  in  Part  VI  B. 


6 


FSIS  Directive  6900.2 


PART  V --  Ritual  Slaughter  of  Livestock 

A.  General  Requirement 

Section  1902  (b)  of  the  Humane  Methods  of  Slaughter  Act  of  1978  provides  that 
“slaughtering  in  accordance  with  the  ritual  requirements  of  the  Jewish  faith  or  any  other 
religious  faith  that  prescribes  a method  of  slaughter  whereby  the  animal  suffers  loss  of 
consciousness  by  anemia  of  the  brain  caused  by  the  simultaneous  and  instantaneous 
severance  of  the  carotid  arteries  with  a sharp  instrument  and  handling  in  connection 
with  such  slaughtering”  is  humane. 

Therefore,  an  establishment  may  slaughter  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of 
Kosher,  Halal  (Islamic),  or  any  other  religious  faith’s  requirements.  Inspection  program 
personnel  should  not  interfere  with  any  slaughter  procedures  that  are  performed  In 
accordance  with  such  requirements.  To  enable  Inspection  program  personnel  to  be 
informed  about  what  Is  occurring,  they  are  to  request  that  the  establishment  provide  a 
written  statement  from  an  official  of  the  religion  who  has  authority  over  the  enforcement 
of  religious  dietary  laws  that  describes  the  ritual  slaughter  method  that  the  faith 
prescribes,  if  this  description  has  not  been  attached  by  the  establishment  to  FSIS  Form 
5200-2,  Application  for  Federal  Meat,  Poultry,  or  Import  Inspection. 

Although  an  operation  may  be  performing  exempted  ritual  slaughter,  it  is  not 
exempted  from  other  humane  handling  regulations  In  9 CFR  313.1  and  313.2(a)-(e). 
Consequently,  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  verify  that  establishments  that 
conduct  ritual  slaughter  comply  with  the  applicable  regulatory  requirements  for  humane 
handling  contained  in  9 CFR  31 3.1  and  313.2(a)-(e). 

B.  How  do  inspection  program  personnel  verify  that  an  establishment 
performing  ritual  slaughter  meets  the  statutory  and  regulatory  requirements  for 
humane  handling  of  livestock? 

When  verifying  whether  an  establishment  that  performs  ritual  slaughter  meets  the 
regulatory  requirements  for  humane  handling,  inspection  program  personnel  should 
assess  humane  handling  activities  in  all  areas  of  the  establishment  as  described  in 
Parts  II  and  III  (except  those  discussions  concerning  stunning). 

C.  Are  there  circumstances  in  which  it  is  appropriate  for  inspection  program 
personnel  to  act  under  the  HMSA  to  interrupt  ritual  slaughter? 

Inspection  program  personnel  may  act  under  section  1902  (b)  of  the  HMSA  If,  after 
the  animal’s  throat  is  cut,  it  struggles  or  bellows  for  an  extended  period  of  time  or 
otherwise  exhibits  consciousness,  or  if  the  act  of  slaughter  includes  throat  sawing, 
hacking,  or  multiple  slicing  of  the  neck  with  a sharp  instrument.  Such  Incidents  are 
examples  of  noncompliance  because  either  the  cut  of  the  carotid  arteries  Is  not 
instantaneous  and  simultaneous,  or  the  animals  do  not  lose  consciousness  by  anemia 
of  the  brain.  If  any  of  the  above  incidents  are  observed,  inspection  program  personnel 
are  to  take  steps  to  ensure  that  the  animal  is  immediately  and  humanely  rendered 
unconscious  and  slaughtered. 


7 


D.  What  actions  do  inspection  program  personnel  take  if  there  is  a 
noncompliance  during  ritual  slaughter? 

If  inspection  program  personnel  observe  a noncompliance  regarding  ritual 
slaughter,  resulting  in  the  injury  or  inhumane  treatment  of  animals  (e.g.,  consciousness 
after  the  ritual  procedure),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  action  as  set  out  in 
Part  VI  B. 

PART  VI  - Enforcement  and  Documentation 

A.  What  do  inspection  program  personnel  do  when  they  have  determined 
that  a noncompliance  with  the  humane  slaughter  and  handling  requirements  has 
occurred  that  is  not  immediately  causing  injury  or  inhumane  treatment  of 
animals? 


1 . Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  document  the  noncompliance  on  an 
FSIS  Form  5400-4,  Noncompliance  Record  (NR),  under  the  Inspection  System 
Procedure  (ISP)  code  04C02  using  the  “Protocol”  trend  indicator.  Inspection  program 
personnel  are  to  specify  the  regulation  or  statutory  provision  that  pertains  to  the 
incident,  provide  a concise  description  of  the  noncompliance  and  provide  any  other 
evidence  that  supports  the  determination  that  a noncompliance  has  occurred. 

2.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  verify  that  the  establishment  takes  the 
necessary  immediate  and  further  preventive  actions. 

3.  If  an  establishment  fails  to  adequately  respond  to  an  NR  or  fails  to  take  its 
Immediate  and  further  preventive  actions.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  a 
control  action  (i.e.,  apply  a U.S.  Reject  Tag)  as  set  out  In  9 CFR  500.2  (a)(4),  inhumane 
handling  or  slaughter  of  livestock.  The  control  action  will  remain  In  place  until  the 
establishment  implements  the  appropriate  immediate  and  further  preventive  actions  that 
ensure  compliance  with  the  appropriate  section  of  9 CFR  part  313. 

B.  What  do  inspection  program  personnel  do  when  they  have  determined 
that  a noncompiiance  with  the  humane  slaughter  and  handling  requirements  has 
occurred  and  animals  are  being  injured  or  treated  inhumanely? 

1 . Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  document  the  noncompliance  on  an 
NR,  under  the  ISP  code  04C02  using  the  “Protocol”  trend  indicator.  Inspection  program 
personnel  are  to  specify  the  regulation  or  statutory  provision  that  pertains  to  the 
Incident,  provide  a concise  description  of  the  noncompliance  and  provide  any  other 
evidence  that  supports  the  determination  that  a noncompliance  has  occurred. 

2.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  a control  action  (i.e.,  apply  a tag) 
as  set  out  in  9 CFR  500.2  (a)(4),  inhumane  handling  or  slaughter  of  livestock.  The 
control  action  will  remain  in  place  until  the  establishment  Implements  the  appropriate 
Immediate  and  further  preventive  actions  that  ensure  compliance  with  the  appropriate 
section  of  9 CFR  part  313. 


8 


FSIS  Directive  6900.2 


C.  How  do  inspection  program  personnel  determine  whether  there  is  a 
trend  of  a noncompliance  with  the  humane  slaughter  and  handling  requirements? 

To  determine  whether  a noncompliance  trend  exists,  inspection  program  personnel 
will  need  to  decide  whether  they  can  link  NRs.  Inspection  program  personnel  should 
only  link  NRs  when  the  noncompliances  are  from  the  same  cause. 

To  make  a determination  as  to  whether  a trend  exists,  inspection  program  personnel 
are  to  seek  answer  to  the  following  questions; 

1 . How  much  time  has  lapsed  since  the  previous  NR  was  written? 

2.  Was  this  noncompliance  from  the  same  cause  as  the  previous  NR? 

3.  Were  the  establishment’s  further  planned  actions  implemented? 

4.  Were  the  establishment’s  further  planned  actions  effective  in  reducing  the 
frequency  of  these  noncompliances? 

5.  Is  the  establishment  implementing  additional  planned  actions  that  reduce 
the  possibility  of  recurrence? 

Inspection  program  personnel  should  be  discussing  any  linkages  with  plant 
management  during  the  weekly  meetings.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  also 
Include  In  Block  10  of  the  NR  that  these  discussions  were  held.  Inspection  program 
personnel  should  also  include  a statement  In  Block  10  of  the  NR  stating  that  continued 
failure  to  meet  regulatory  requirements  can  lead  to  the  enforcement  actions  described  in 
9 CFR  500.3(b). 

Inspection  program  personnel  should  continue  to  link  NRs  together  that  derive  from 
the  same  or  a related  cause  until  he  or  she  determines  that  an  enforcement  action  is 
necessary  to  bring  the  establishment  Into  compliance  with  the  regulations. 

When  inspection  program  personnel  determine  that  an  enforcement  action  (i.e., 
suspension  as  described  in  9 CFR  500.3(b))  Is  necessary,  they  should  contact  the 
District  Office  (DO)  and  provide  support  for  this  determination. 

The  DO  will  determine  whether  inspection  should  be  suspended  as  set  out  in  9 CFR 
500.3(b).  As  provided  In  9 CFR  500.3(b),  FSIS  may  impose  a suspension  without 
providing  the  establishment  prior  notification  if  the  establishment  is  handling  or 
slaughtering  animals  inhumanely. 

D.  When  may  the  Inspector-in-Charge  (IIC)  immediately  suspend  inspection 
because  the  establishment  is  handling  or  slaughtering  animal  inhumanely? 

If  there  is  an  egregious  situation  of  inhumane  handling  or  slaughter,  the  IIC  may 
immediately  suspend  inspection  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  500.3(b)  of  the  regulations. 
The  IIC  verbally  notifies  plant  management  of  the  suspension.  In  such  situations,  the 
IIC  is  to  immediately  notify  the  DO  for  prompt  documentation  of  the  suspension  action. 


9 


PART  VII  - Information  for  the  District  Veterinary  Medical  Specialists  (DVMS) 


What  do  inspection  program  personnei  provide  to  the  DO  to  document 
noncompiiance  findings  with  the  humane  handling  and  siaughter  requirements? 

When  noncompliances  occur,  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  send  copies 
of  the  NRs  to  the  DVMS  (or  to  the  Deputy  District  Manager  if  there  is  no  DVMS  in  a 
District).  These  NRs  should  be  kept  on  file  in  the  DO.  When  necessary,  the  DVMS  or 
the  Deputy  District  Managers  will  follow-up  on  issues  of  concern  and  will  correlate 
resolutions. 


Assistant  Administrator 

Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development 

Attachment 


10 


FSIS  Directive  6900.2 


Attachment  1 

Humane  Methods  of  Slaughter  Act  of  1978.  (7  U.S.C.  1901  et  sea.) 

Sec.  1901.  - Findings  and  declaration  of  policy 

The  Congress  finds  that  the  use  of  humane  methods  in  the  slaughter  of  livestock 
prevents  needless  suffering;  results  In  safer  and  better  working  conditions  for  persons 
engaged  in  the  slaughtering  industry;  brings  about  improvement  of  products  and 
economies  in  slaughtering  operations;  and  produces  other  benefits  for  producers, 
processors,  and  consumers  which  tend  to  expedite  an  orderly  flow  of  livestock  and 
livestock  products  in  interstate  and  foreign  commerce.  It  is  therefore  declared  to  be  the 
policy  of  the  United  States  that  the  slaughtering  of  livestock  and  the  handling  of 
livestock  in  connection  with  slaughter  shall  be  carried  out  only  by  humane  methods. 

Sec.  1902.  - Humane  methods 

No  method  of  slaughtering  or  handling  in  connection  with  slaughtering  shall  be  deemed 
to  comply  with  the  public  policy  of  the  United  States  unless  it  is  humane.  Either  of  the 
following  two  methods  of  slaughtering  and  handling  are  hereby  found  to  be  humane: 

(a)  in  the  case  of  cattle,  calves,  horses,  mules,  sheep,  swine,  and  other  livestock,  all 
animals  are  rendered  insensible  to  pain  by  a single  blow  or  gunshot  or  an  electrical, 
chemical  or  other  means  that  is  rapid  and  effective,  before  being  shackled,  hoisted, 
thrown,  cast,  or  cut;  or 

(b)  by  slaughtering  in  accordance  with  the  ritual  requirements  of  the  Jewish  faith  or  any 
other  religious  faith  that  prescribes  a method  of  slaughter  whereby  the  animal  suffers 
loss  of  consciousness  by  anemia  of  the  brain  caused  by  the  simultaneous  and 
instantaneous  severance  of  the  carotid  arteries  with  a sharp  Instrument  and  handling  in 
connection  with  such  slaughtering. 

Section  1906  - Exemption  of  ritual  slaughter 

Nothing  in  this  chapter  (Humane  Methods  of  Slaughter  Act  of  1 978  - Title  7 of  the  U.S. 
Code,  Chapter  48)  shall  be  construed  to  prohibit,  abridge,  or  In  any  way  hinder  the 
religious  freedom  of  any  person  or  group.  Not  withstanding  any  other  provision  of  this 
chapter,  in  order  to  protect  freedom  of  religion,  ritual  slaughter  and  the  handling  or  other 
preparation  of  livestock  for  ritual  slaughter  are  exempted  from  the  terms  of  this  chapter. 
For  the  purposes  of  this  section  the  term  “ritual  slaughter”  means  slaughter  In 
accordance  with  section  1902(b)  of  this  title. 


11 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Sendee 
Printing  Management  Section,  ASD 
5601  Sunnyside  Avenue,  Mail  Drop  5241 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-5241 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 
USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


I 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


12/17/2002 


SAFE  AND  SUITABLE  INGREDIENTS  USED  IN  THE  PRODUCTION  OF 
MEAT  AND  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


I.  PURPOSE 


This  directive  provides  inspection  program  personnel  with  an  up-to-date  list  of  approved 
substances  for  use  in  the  production  of  meat  and  poultry  products. 


II.  [RESERVED] 

III.  REFERENCES 


9CFR  Chapter  III 


IV.  RESERVED 

V.  BACKGROUND 


A.  On  December  23,  1999,  the  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS) 
published  in  the  Federal  Register  a final  rule  on  "Food  Ingredients  and  Sources  of 
Radiation  Listed  or  Approved  for  Use  in  the  Production  of  Meat  and  Poultry  Products." 
The  final  rule  streamlined  the  process  for  approving  the  use  of  food  ingredients  and 
sources  of  radiation  in  meat  and  poultry  products  to  provide  for  the  simultaneous 
review,  by  FSIS  and  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA),  of  petitions  for  new  uses 
of  food  and  color  additives  and  notifications  for  new  uses  of  generally  recognized  as 
safe  (GRAS)  substances  that  are  submitted  to  FDA.  Subsequent  to  the  publication  of 
the  final  rule  in  January,  2000,  FDA  and  FSIS  entered  into  a Memorandum  of 
Understanding  (MOU)  that  outlines  the  procedures  that  are  followed  by  FDA  and  FSIS 
regarding  the  joint  review  of  requests  for  the  use  of  food  ingredients  and  sources  of 
radiation  in  meat  and  poultry  products.  Except  in  certain  circumstances,  FDA  will  now 
list  in  its  regulations  (21  CFR)  food  additives  and  sources  of  radiation  that  are  safe  and 
suitable  for  use  in  the  production  of  meat  or  poultry  products. 


B.  FDA  regulations  permit  ingredient  and  food  manufacturers  to  make  their  own 
determination  that  a particular  use  of  a substance  in  food  is  GRAS  by  qualified  experts 
The  substances  that  are  determined  to  be  GRAS  through  self-determinations  are  not 
listed  in  the  FDA  regulations  in  Title  21  of  the  CFR.  However,  on  April  17,  1997,  FDA 
published  in  the  Federal  Register  a Proposed  Rule  that  would  establish  a notification 

DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors;  OPI:  OPPD 

Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  TSC,  Import  Offices 


procedure  whereby  any  person  may  notify  FDA  of  a determination  that  a particular  use 
of  a substance  is  GPRAS.  Although  this  proposed  notification  procedure  is  not  yet  final, 
FDA  is  operating  in  accordance  with  the  proposal.  FDA  has  received  many  GRAS 
notifications  pertaining  to  meat  and  poultry  products  that  are  included  in  an  Inventory  of 
GRAS  Notices  that  FDA  has  established  on  its  Website.  When  a GRAS  notification 
involves  a use  in  a meat  or  poultry  product,  FDA's  response  to  the  notifier  will  include 
any  restrictions  or  conditions  of  use  of  the  substance  in  the  production  of  meat  or 
poultry  products  that  FSIS  recommends,  provided  such  restrictions  or  conditions  of  use 
are  consistent  with  Sections  201  and  409(s)  of  the  Federal  Food,  Drug,  and  Cosmetic 
Act  (FFDCA).  The  Inventory  of  GRAS  Notices,  and  FDA's  responses,  may  be  accessed 
on  the  Internet  World-Wide  Web  at:  http://vm.cfsan.fda.qov/~rdb/opa-qras.html. 

C.  FDA  also  maintains  an  inventory  of  premarket  notifications  for  food  contact 
substances.  However,  unlike  the  GRAS  notices,  a premarket  notification  only  applies  to 
the  manufacturer  or  supplier  identified  in  the  notification.  In  the  process  of  reviewing 
notifications,  FDA  will  consult  with  FSIS  if  the  intended  use  involves  meat  or  poultry,  per 
the  MOU.  The  FDA  Inventory  of  premarket  notifications  may  be  accessed  on  the 
Internet  World-Wide  Web  at:  http://www.cfsan.fda.qov/~dms/opa-fcn.html. 

D.  Substances  listed  approved  In  FDA  regulations  for  use  in  food  generally  (21  CFR, 
Parts  172-180)  or  listed  as  GRAS  for  use  in  food  (21  CFR,  Parts  182  and  184)  are  not 
automatically  acceptable  as  safe  and  suitable  for  use  in  meat  and  poultry  products. 
Unless  the  approval  or  listing  specifically  mentions  meat  and  poultry  products,  FSIS' 
Labeling  and  Consumer  Protection  Staff  would  need  from  FDA  an  affirmative  written 
statement  that  FDA's  safety  determination  did,  in  fact,  consider  use  in  meat  or  poultry, 
or  that  FDA  does  not  have  any  objections  with  regard  to  the  safety  of  the  use  in  meat  or 
poultry  products.  FSIS  would  still  need  to  determine  the  suitability  of  the  use  of  the 
substance,  and  whether  rulemaking  is  required  to  permit  such  use.  Provided  FDA 
confirms  the  safety  of  the  new  use  of  a substance,  or  when  FDA  regulations  already 
state  that  the  substance  is  safe  for  use  in  food  generally,  FDA  will  not  amend  its 
regulations  to  list  the  specific  use  in  meat  and  poultry  products.  However,  rulemaking 
by  FSIS  may  be  necessary  where  a standard  of  identity  prohibits  or  limits  the  use  of  an 
ingredient,  or  the  ingredient  is  not  expected  in  the  product,  e.g.,  adding  milk  to 
hamburger.  If  FSIS  determines  that  rulemaking  is  necessary,  the  appropriate  labeling 
or  standards  of  identity  regulation  in  Title  9 of  the  CFR  will  be  amended  to  include  the 
substance.  In  the  event  that  rulemaking  is  not  required,  FSIS  would  notify  the 
requestor,  in  writing,  concerning  the  acceptable  use  in  meat  and  poultry  products 
(referred  to  as  an  "acceptability  determination,"  as  described  in  the  MOU). 

E.  In  the  December  23,  1999,  final  rule,  FSIS  acknowledged  the  need  to  provide 
direction  to  its  inspection  program  personnel  concerning  the  use  of  food  Ingredients  and 
sources  of  radiation  that  have  been  accepted  by  the  Agency  for  use  in  meat  and  poultry 
products,  but  not  listed  in  Titles  9 or  21  of  the  CFR.  Consequently,  FSIS  proposed  to 
maintain  in  its  directive  system,  a comprehensive  listing  of  the  substances  that  have 
been  reviewed  according  to  the  MOU  and  that  have  been  accepted  as  safe  and  suitable 
by  FSIS. 


2 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1 


F.  The  attachment  below  identifies  the  substances  that  have  been  accepted  since 
January  2000  by  FSIS  as  safe  and  suitable  for  use  in  the  production  of  meat  and  poultry 
products  that  are  not  listed  in  9 CFR  424.21(c).  In  order  to  be  comprehensive, 
substances  that  have  been  approved  in  21  CFR  for  use  in  meat  and  poultry  as  food 
additives;  in  GRAS  notices  and  pre-market  notifications,  as  well  as  in  letters  conveying 
acceptability  determinations,  have  been  included.  This  table  is  current  as  of 
November  25,  2002.  The  Information  is  also  available  on  the  United  States  Department 
of  Agriculture  (USDA)  website  at  www.fsis.usda. gov/OPPDE/larc/Index.htm.  For  further 
policy  information  regarding  any  of  the  substances  listed  below  please  contact  the 
Labeling  and  Consumer  Protection  Staff  by  telephone  at  Area  Code  (202)  205-0279  or 
by  electronic  mail  at:  FSIS.Labeling@fsls.usda.gov.  FSIS  issues  quarterly  updates  to 
the  list,  as  needed. 


Office  of  Policy  and  Program 
Development 


3 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1 
Attachment  1 


SUBSTANCE 

PURPOSE/PRODUCT 

AMOUNT 

REFERENCE 

Anticoagulants 

Sodium 

Tripolyphosphate 

Sequestrant/anti-coagulant 
for  use  in  recovered 
livestock  blood  which  is 
subsequently  used  in  food 
products 

Not  to  exceed  0.5  percent  of 
recovered  blood 

Acceptability 

determination 

Antimicrobials 

A mixture  of  hops  beta 
acids,  egg  white 
lysozyme,  and  cultured 
skim  milk 

In  a salad  dressing  used  in 
refrigerated  meat  and 
poultry  deli  salads 

Not  to  exceed  1.5  percent  of 
the  salad  dressing 

Acceptability 

determination 

Acidified  sodium 
chlorite 

Poultry  carcasses  and  parts; 
meat  carcasses,  parts,  and 
organs;  processed, 
comminuted,  or  formed 
meat  food  products 

500  to  1200  ppm  in 
combination  with  any  GRAS 
acid  at  a level  sufficient  to 
achieve  a pH  of  2.3  to  2.9  in 
accordance  with  21  CFR 
173.325  {Note:  The  pH 
depends  on  the  type  of  meat 
or  poultry  product.) 

21  CFR  173.325 

Anhydrous  ammonia 

Lean  finely  textured  beef 
which  is  subsequently  quick 
chilled  to  28  degrees 
Fahrenheit  and 
mechanically  "stressed" 

In  accordance  with  current 
industry  standards  of  good 
manufacturing  practice 

Acceptability 

determination 

Lactoferrin 

Beef  carcasses  and  parts 

At  up  to  2 percent  of  a water- 
based  antimicrobial  spray 

GRAS  Notice 
000067 

Nisin  Preparation 

Components  of  sauces 
prepared  under  FDA 
jurisdiction  and  used  with 
fully  cooked  meat  or 
poultry 

In  sauces  prepared  under 
FDA  jurisdiction  that  contain 
no  more  than  600  ppm  nisin 
preparation  may  be  used 
where  the  meat  or  poultry 
does  not  exceed  50  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Nisin  Preparation 

Meat  and  poultry  soups 

Not  to  exceed  5 ppm  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Ozone 

All  meat  and  poultry 
products 

In  accordance  with  current 
industry  standards  of  good 
manufacturing  practice 

21  CFR  173.368 

Peroxyacetic  acid, 
octanoic  acid,  acetic 
acid,  hydrogen  peroxide, 
peroxyoctanoic  acid, 
and  1- 

hydroxyethylidene-1,  1- 
diphosphonic  acid 
(HEDP) 

Meat  and  poultry  carcasses, 
parts,  trim  and  organs 

Maximum  concentrations: 
Peroxyacetic  acids  220  ppm, 
hydrogen  peroxide  1 00  ppm 

21  CFR  173.370 

Potassium  diacetate 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products 

Not  to  exceed  0.25  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Sodium  citrate  buffered 
with  citric  acid  to  a pH 
of  5.6 

Non-standardized 
comminuted  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  1.3  percent  of 
the  product  formulation  in 
accordance  with  2 1 CFR 
184.1751 

Acceptability 

determination 

4 


Trisodium  Phosphate 

Raw,  unchilled  poultry 
carcasses  and  giblets 

8-12  percent  solution  applied 
by  spraying  or  dipping 
giblets  for  up  to  30  seconds. 
8-12  percent  solution  within 
a temperature  range  of  65°  F 
to  85  ° F applied  by  spraying 
or  dipping  carcasses  for  up  to 
15  seconds 

Acceptability 
determination 
(per  21  CFR 
182.1778) 

Antioxidants 

BHA  (butylated 
hydroxyanisole) 

“Brown  N Serve”  sausages 

0.02  percent  in  combination 
with  other  antioxidants  for 
use  in  meat,  based  on  fat 
content 

Acceptability 

determination 

BHT  (butylated 
hydroxytoluene) 

“Brown  N Serve”  sausages 

0.02  percent  in  combination 
with  other  antioxidants  for 
use  in  meat,  based  on  fat 
content 

Acceptability 

determination 

Binders 

Binders  listed  in  9 CFR 
424.21(c)  for  use  in 
cured  pork  products  and 
poultry  products 

Turkey  ham  and  water 
products 

In  accordance  with  9 CFR 
319.104(d)  and  424.21(c) 

Acceptability 

determination 

a-Cellulose  from 
bamboo 

Various  non-standardized 
comminuted  poultry 
products 

Not  to  exceed  3.5  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Hydroxypropyl 

methylcellulose 

Seasoning  mixtures  added 
to  sauces  and  gravies 
produced  under  FDA 
jurisdiction  that  will  be 
used  in  meat  and  poultry 
products 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

Hydroxypropyl 

methylcellulose 

Thickener  in  meat  and 
poultry  pot  pie  fillings, 
sauces,  soups,  and  gravies 

Not  to  exceed  1 percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Inulin 

Various  non-standardized 
meat  and  poultry  products 

2 to  5 percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Konjac  flour 

Meat  and  poultry  products 
in  which  starchy  vegetable 
flours  are  permitted 

No  to  exceed  3.5  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 
individually  or  collectively 
with  other  binders 

Acceptability 

determination 

Methylcellulose 

Various  non-standardized 
comminuted  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  3.5  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Methylcellulose 

Thickener  in  meat  and 
poultry  pot  pie  fillings, 
sauces,  soups,  and  gravies; 
a binder  in  poultry  patties, 
loaves,  and  nuggets;  a 
binder  in  meat  patties, 
loaves,  and  nuggets; 
texturizer  in  Policy  Memo 

Not  to  exceed  1 percent  of 
the  product  formulation  as  a 
thickener  in  meat  and  poultry 
pot  pie  fillings,  sauces, 
soups,  and  gravies;  1.6 
percent  as  a binder  in  poultry 
patties,  loaves,  and  nuggets; 
0.25  percent  as  a binder  in 

Acceptability 

determination 

5 


12 IB  and  123  products 

meat  patties,  loaves,  and 
nuggets;  0.6  percent  as  a 
texturizer  in  Policy  Memo 
12 IB  and  123  products 

Partially  hydrolyzed 
proteins 

Non-standardized  meat  and 
poultry  products  where 
binders  are  permitted. 
Standardized  meat  and 
poultry  products  with 
standards  of  identity  that 
allow  such  use. 

Not  to  exceed  3.5  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Pectin 

Non-standardized  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  3 percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Pork  collagen 

Non-standardized  meat 
food  products  where 
binders  are  permitted  and 
modified  meat  and  poultry 
products  addressed  in 
Pohcy  Memos  12 IB  and 
123 

Not  to  exceed  3.5  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Sodium  alginate 

Various  non-standardized 
meat  products 

Not  to  exceed  1 percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Sodium  alginate 

Various  non-standardized 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  0.8  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Transglutaminase 

enzyme 

Texturizing  agent  in  non- 
standardized  meat  and 
poultry  food  products 
where  texturizing  agents 
and  binders  are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  65  ppm  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Transglutaminase 

enzyme 

Cross-linking  agent  in 
modified  meat  and  poultry 
products  addressed  in 
Pohcy  Memos  12 IB  and 
123 

Not  to  exceed  65  ppm  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Coloring  agent 

Carmine  (cochineal) 

To  color  textured  soy 
protein  isolate  for  use  in  dry 
cured  acidified  sausages 

0.2  to  0.4  percent  of  the 
hydrated  protein  gel.  The 
protein  gel  must  not  exceed 
30  percent  of  the  meat  food 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Curing  Accelerators 
(must  be  used  only  in 
combination  with  curing 
agents) 

Potassium  erythorbate 

Cured  pork  and  beef  cuts; 
cured  meat  food  products; 
cured  comminuted  poultry 
or  poultry  products 

87.5  oz.  to  100  gallons  of 
pickle  at  10  percent  pump; 

7/8  oz.  to  100  lbs.  Of  meat, 
meat  byproduct  or  poultry 
product;  10  percent  to 
surfaces  of  cured  meat  cuts  or 
poultry  products  prior  to 
packaging  (the  use  of  such  a 
solution  shall  not  add  a 
significant  amount  of 
moisture  to  the  product) 

Acceptability 

determination 

6 


Film  Forming  Agents 

A mixture  of  water, 
glycerin,  carageenan, 
and  cornstarch 

Used  to  aid  in  the  release  of 
elastic  netting  on  cooked 
meat  products  that  are 
cooked  in  elastic  netting 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

A mixture  of  water, 
glycerin,  carageenan, 
cornstarch,  and  caramel 

Used  to  aid  in  the  release  of 
elastic  netting  on  cooked 
meat  products  that  are 
cooked  in  elastic  netting 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

A mixture  of  water, 
glycerin,  carageenan, 
cornstarch,  and  smoke 
flavoring 

Used  to  aid  in  the  release  of 
elastic  netting  on  cooked 
meat  products  that  are 
cooked  in  elastic  netting 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

Gelatin  spice  sheets 

To  ensure  even  distribution 
of  seasonings  on  cooked 
pork  products 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

Hydroxypropyl 

methylcellulose 

Film-forming  agent  in 
glazes  for  meat  and  poultry 
products 

Not  to  exceed  4 percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

deterrnination 

Methylcellulose 

Film-forming  agent  in 
glazes  for  meat  and  poultry 
products 

Not  to  exceed  3 percent  of 
the  product  formulation  for 
poultry  products,  3.5  percent 
of  the  product  formulation 
for  meat  products 

Acceptability 

deterrnination 

Flavoring  Agents 

Potassium  acetate 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products 

No  to  exceed  1 .2  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Sucralose 

Non-nutritive  sweetener  in 
various  non-standardized 
meat  and  poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  500  ppm  in  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Miscellaneous 

Cellulose  (powdered) 

To  facilitate  grinding  and 
shredding  in  cheese 

No  to  exceed  2 percent  of  the 
cheese 

Acceptability 

determination 

Erythorbic  Acid 

To  delay  discoloration  in 
ground  beef  and  ground 
beef  patties 

Not  to  exceed  0.04  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 
(Must  be  descriptively 
labeled  to  distinguish  from 
traditional  standardized 
products) 

Acceptability 

determination 

Hydrogen  peroxide 

To  minimize  biofllm 
buildup  on  reverse  osmosis 
and  ultrafiltration 
membranes  for  processing 
beef  plasma 

No  to  exceed  100  ppm  added 
just  prior  to  plasma  entering 
membranes 

Acceptability 

determination 

Small  planktivorous 
pelagic  fish  oil 

For  use  as  an  alternative 
edible  oil  in  the  production 
of  various  meat,  poultry, 
and  egg  products 

Not  to  exceed  6.7  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 

GRAS  Notice 
000102 

Sodium  bicarbonate 

Neutralize  excess  acidity 
(maintain  pH)  in  fresh  pork 
and  beef  cuts 

In  an  injected  solution,  not  to 
exceed  0.5  percent  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

7 


Sodium  bicarbonate 

Maintain  pH  and  reduce 
purge  in  fresh  turkey 
products 

In  an  injected  solution,  not  to 
exceed  0.5  percent  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Sodium  bicarbonate 

To  soak  natural  casings  to 
ease  stuffing 

1 .06  percent  of  an  aqueous 
solution.  Casings  must  be 
rinsed  with  potable  water 
prior  to  stuffing 

Acceptability 

determination 

Xanthan  gum 

Suspending  agent  for 
carrageenan  in  a brine  tank 

Not  to  exceed  2 percent  of 
the  amount  of  carrageenan 

Acceptability 

deterrnination 

Packaging  Systems 

Carbon  monoxide  gas  as 
part  of  the  Pactiv 
modified  atmosphere 
packaging  system 
(ActiveTech  2001) 

Packaging  fresh  cuts  of  case 
ready  muscle  meat  and  case 
ready  groimd  meat  to 
maintain  wholesomeness, 
provide  flexibUity  in 
distribution,  and  reduce 
shrinkage  of  the  meat. 

The  use  of  carbon  monoxide 
(0.4  percent),  carbon  dioxide 
(30  percent)  and  nitrogen 
(69.6)  as  part  of  the  Pactiv 
modified  atmosphere 
packaging  system 
(ActiveTech  2001) 

GRAS  Notice 
000083 

Tenderizing  Agents 

Calcium  gluconate 

Raw  meat  products 

Solutions  applied  or  injected 
into  raw  meat  shall  not  result 
in  a gain  of  3 percent  above 
green  weight 

Acceptability 

determination 

Protease  preparation 
derived  from  Bacillus 
subtilus 

Raw  meat  products 

Solutions  apphed  or  injected 
into  raw  meat  shall  not  result 
in  a gain  of  3 percent  above 
green  weight 

Acceptability 

determination 

Protease  produced  from 
Bacillus  subtilus  var. 
amyloliquefaciens 

Raw  meat  products 

Solutions  applied  or  injected 
into  raw  meat  shall  not  result 
in  a gain  of  3 percent  above 
green  weight 

Acceptability 

determination 

8 


aTS1975.U538 


ID  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
30D  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 

r DIRECTIVE 

WASHINGTON,  DC 

r REVISION 

' CHANGE  THANSMITTAL  SHEET 

K AMENDMENT 
r OTHER 

Safe  anH'Suitabib  Ingredients  Used  in  the  Production  of 

7120.1, 

1 1 /3/03 

Meat  and  Poulttv  Products 

Amend  1 

I.  PURPOSE 


This  transmittal  issues  changes  to  Attachment  1 and  a new  Attachment  2 for  FSIS  Directive 
7120.1. 


Attachment  1 identifies  the  substances  that  have  been  approved  in  21  CFR  for  use  in  meat 
and  poultry  products  as  food  additives,  approved  in  GRAS  notices  and  pre-market 
notifications,  and  approved  in  letters  conveying  acceptability  determinations.  Substances 
added  since  the  12/17/2002  issuance  of  the  directive  are  in  bold.  This  information  is  also 
available  on  the  USDA  website  at:  www.fsis.usda.gov/OPPDE/larc/index.htm.  For  further 
policy  information  regarding  any  of  the  substances  listed  below  please  contact  the  New 
Technology  Staff  by  telephone  at  Area  Code  (202)  205-0675.  FSIS  will  continue  to  issue 
updates  to  the  list,  as  needed. 


NOTE:  Attachment  1 does  not  include  the  use  of  substances  in  on-line  reprocessing 
operations  that  operate  under  an  experimental  exemption  listed  in  9 CFR  381 .3(c). 
Establishments  operating  under  this  exemption  should  follow  the  conditions  of  use  that  are 
specific  to  their  FSIS  approved  on-line  reprocessing  protocol. 


This  change  transmittal  also  issues  an  Attachment  2 that  presents  questions  and  answers  that 
relate  to  the  use  of  antimicrobial  agents  on  raw  and  processed  meat  and  poultry  products. 


II.  CANCELLATION 


This  transmittal  is  cancelled  when  contents  have  been  incorporated  into  FSIS  Directive 
7120.1. 


Assistant  Administrator 

Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development 


FILING  INSTRUCTION 

Remove  Old  Pages  Insert  New  Pages 

4:8 4:18 

DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors,  OPI:  OPPD 

Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  TSC,  Import 

Offices 


•if 


^ a«t  • v|«?9 


^ ^ ■ , - VfAr"!*-'- f -'.'.w.,  -Si:) 

M ¥ ■ 

7 ‘.  r ' '*  • . .»T  6 1.  f 


. t-:  w : 


Cy  ■»  t-x  •* 

' . *-  _:'■>■  -iulm  ■•>■-'*• 


• ■ ''21^*^'  ••  'T  '•'^J 


5iir  *?< 

3 


.4*'-  :j. 


V 


;*  K . - A*.'  *4L  '> 


^v»‘ 


f/;^_ 


, 5 


V“*'L  ■ ■ >'  -*^;V  •"  > ' *^^<i-'. 


•« 


V, :. 


' ■ ^ K. 


511 


• / ' 


'I 


? p 

• r'4Cf‘  rii-'  ^P  - ‘ * > ■'  3aVil‘>  •'’■■  '’‘>’  * ' 

■■  ?;'  ' ' 

^ -‘*  ■ Vt  '»  ;yj  ' ll#fr 


, ■^Vwjg^i.c-^S'  •.,  1 (.■.,  V '^r.  . .T}li‘'Zr  . 


■\-  ~>KJW!5~  M 

‘nr'n^.  }J^£vm^ 

'■•  '(j 


i ;.  ■ j:? » ' X,.  ■ s » 

i • t '^-J  •■:  'Jm  iM®3Tj'U' 


C.  -itv.  ■ . , * ]h  ; P»  S'- . 


<'  t^Tf 

.^..i 


f 


y 

4 » 


.1.  -I'  >'  #fA.' 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 


Table  of  Safe  and  Suitable  Ingredients 


SUBSTANCE 

PRODUCT 

AMOUNT 

REFERENCE 

LABELING 

REQUIREMENTS 

Anticoagulants 

Sodium  tripolyphosphate 

Sequestrant/anti-coagulant 
for  use  in  recovered 
livestock  blood  which  is 
subsequently  used  in  food 
products 

Not  to  exceed  0.5 
percent  of  recovered 
blood 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Antimicrobials 

A mixture  of  hops  beta 
acids,  egg  white 
lysozyme,  and  cultured 
skim  milk 

In  a salad  dressing  used  in 
refrigerated  meat  and 
poultry  deli  salads 

Not  to  exceed  1.5 
percent  of  the  finished 
salad 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Acidified  sodium  chlorite 

Poultry  carcasses  and 
parts;  meat  carcasses, 
parts,  and  organs; 
processed,  comminuted, 
or  formed  meat  food 
products 

500  to  1200  ppm  in 
combination  with  any 
GRAS  acid  at  a level 
sufficient  to  achieve  a 
pH  of  2.3  to  2.9  in 
accordance  with  2 1 CFR 
173.325  {Note:  The  pH 
depends  on  the  type  of 
meat  or  poultry  product.) 

21  CFR  173.325 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (3) 

Acidified  sodium 
chlorite 

Processed,  comminuted 
or  formed  poultry 
products 

500  to  1200  ppm  in 
combination  with  any 
GRAS  acid  at  a level 
sufficient  to  achieve  a 
pH  of  2.3  to  2.9  in 
accordance  with  21 
CFR  173.325  (Note: 
The  pH  depends  on  the 
type  of  meat  or  poultry 
product.) 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (3) 

Anhydrous  ammonia 

Lean  finely  textured  beef 
which  is  subsequently 
quick  chilled  to  28 
degrees  Fahrenheit  and 
mechanically  "stressed" 

In  accordance  with 
current  industry 
standards  of  good 
manufacturing  practice 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

DBDMH  (l,3dibromo- 
5,5-dimethylhydantoin) 

For  use  in  poultry 
chiller  water 

At  a level  not  to  exceed 
100  ppm  active 
bromine 

Food  Contact 
Substance 
Notification  No. 
FCN  334 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (6) 

Egg  white  lysozyme 

In  casings  and  on 
cooked  (RTE)  meat  and 
poultry  products 

2.5  mg  per  pound  in  the 
finished  product  when 
used  in  casings;  2.0  mg 
per  pound  on  cooked 
meat  and  poultry 
products 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000064 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

4 


i 


A blend  of  citric  acid 
(1.87®/o),  phosphoric 
acid  (1.72®/o),  and 
hydrochloric  acid 

(0.8®/o) 

Poultry  carcasses 

Dipped  in  solution, 
allowed  to  drip  for  30 
seconds,  and  rinsed 
with  a spray 
application  of  water  for 
1-2  seconds 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

A blend  of  citric  acid, 
hydrochloric  acid,  and 
phosphoric  acid 

To  adjust  the  acidity  in 
various  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Hops  beta  acids 

In  casings  and  on 
cooked  (RTE)  meat  and 
poultry  products 

2.5  mg  per  pound  in  the 
finished  product  when 
used  in  casings;  2.0  mg 
per  pound  on  cooked 
meat  and  poultry 
products 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000063 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Lactic  Acid 

Beef  carcasses  prior  to 
fabrication  (i.e.,  pre- 
and  post-chill) 

Hot  ( *55°  C)  5 percent 
lactic  acid  solution 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Lactoferrin 

Beef  carcasses  and  parts 

At  up  to  2 percent  of  a 
water-based 
antimicrobial  spray 

GRAS  Notice  No, 
000067 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Lactoferrin 

Beef  carcasses 

As  part  of  an 
antimicrobial  spray 
that  would  deliver  1 
gram  of  lactoferrin  per 
dressed  beef  carcass, 
followed  by  a wash 
with  tempered  water 
and  rinse  with  lactic 
acid 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000130 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Nisin  preparation 

Components  of  sauces 
prepared  under  FDA 
jurisdiction  and  used  with 
fully  cooked  meat  or 
poultry  1 

In  sauces  prepared  under 
FDA  jurisdiction  that 
contain  no  more  than 
600  ppm  nisin 
preparation  may  be  used 
where  the  meat  or 
poultry  does  not  exceed 
50  percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Nisin 

Meat  and  poultry  soups 

Not  to  exceed  5 ppm  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Nisin 

In  casings  and  on 
cooked  (RTE)  meat  and 
poultry  products 

3.15  mg  per  pound  in 
the  finished  product 
when  used  in  casings; 
2.5  mg  per  pound  on 
cooked  meat  and 
poultry  products 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000065 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Organic  Acids  (i.e., 
lactic,  acetic,  and  citric 
acid) 

As  part  of  carcass  wash 
applied  pre-chill 

At  up  to  2.5  percent  of 
a solution 

FSIS  Notice  49- 
94 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

5 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 


Ozone 

All  meat  and  poultry 
products 

In  accordance  with 
current  industry 
standards  of  good 
manufacturing  practice 

21  CFR  173.368 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (3) 

Peroxyacetic  acid, 
octanoic  acid,  acetic  acid, 
hydrogen  peroxide, 
peroxyoctanoic  acid,  and 
1-hydroxyethylidene-l,  1- 
diphosphonic  acid 
(HEDP) 

Meat  and  poultry 
carcasses,  parts,  trim  and 
organs 

Maximum  concentrations 
for  meat  carcasses,  parts, 
and  organs:  Peroxyacetic 
acids  220  ppm,  hydrogen 
peroxide  75  ppm; 
Maximum  concentrations 
for  poultry  carcasses, 
parts,  and  organs: 
Peroxyacetic  acids  220 
ppm,  hydrogen  peroxide 
110  ppm,  HEDP  13  ppm 

21  CFR  173.370 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (3) 

A mixture  of 
Peroxyacetic  acid, 
hydrogen  peroxide, 
acetic  acid,  and  1- 
hydroxj’ethylidene-1, 1- 
diphosphonic  acid 
(HEDP) 

Process  water  for 
washing,  rinsing, 
cooling,  or  otherwise  for 
processing  meat 
carcasses,  parts,  trim, 
and  organs;  and  (2) 
process  water  applied  to 
poultry  carcasses  as  a 
spray,  wash,  rinse,  dip, 
chiller  water,  or  scald 
water 

In  either  application, 
the  level  of 
Peroxyacetic  acid  will 
not  exceed  230  ppm, 
hydrogen  peroxide  will 
not  exceed  165  ppm, 
and  HEDP  will  not 
exceed  14.0  ppm 

Food  Contact 
Substance 
Notification  No. 
FCN  000323 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (6) 

Potassium  diacetate 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products  which  permit  the 
addition  of  antimicrobial 
agents,  e.g.,  hot  dogs 

Not  to  exceed  0.25 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

A solution  of  water, 
lactic  acid,  propionic 
acid,  and  acidic  calcium 
sulfate  (solution  with  a 
pH  range  of  1. 0-2.0)* 

RTE  meat  products 
which  permit  the 
addition  of 
antimicrobial  agents, 
e.g.,  hot  dogs 

Applied  as  a spray  for 
20-30  seconds  of 
continual  application 
just  prior  to  packaging 
*Propionic  acid  may  be 
removed  from  the 
solution;  sodium 
phosphate  may  be  added 
to  the  solution  as  a 
buffering  agent  (the 
amount  of  sodium 
phosphate  on  the 
finished  product  must 
not  exceed  SOOOppm 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Sodium  citrate  buffered 
with  citric  acid  to  a pH  of 
5.6 

Non-standardized  and 
standardized  comminuted 
meat  and  poultry  products 
which  permit  ingredients 
of  this  type 

Not  to  exceed  1.3 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation  in 
accordance  with  2 1 CFR 
184.1751 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Sodium  metasilicate 

Raw  beef  carcasses, 
subprimals,  and 
trimmings 

For  use  at  up  to  4 
percent  (plus  or  minus 
2 percent)  of  a solution 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

6 


Trisodium  phosphate 

Raw  unchilled  poultry 
carcasses  and  giblets 

8-12  percent  solution 
applied  by  spraying  or 
dipping  giblets  for  up  to 
30  seconds.  8-12 
percent  solution  within  a 
temperature  range  of  65° 
F to  85  ° F applied  by 
spraying  or  dipping 
carcasses  for  up  to  15 
seconds 

Acceptability 
determination 
(per  21  CFR 
182.1778) 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Antioxidants 

BHA  (butylated 
hydroxyanisole) 

“Brown  N Serve” 
sausages 

0.02  percent  in 
combination  with  other 
antioxidants  for  use  in 
meat,  based  on  fat 
content 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 

(4) 

BHT  (butylated 
hydroxytoluene) 

“Brown  N Serve” 
sausages 

0.02  percent  in 
combination  with  other 
antioxidants  for  use  in 
meat,  based  on  fat 
content 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(4) 

Binders 

Binders  listed  in  9 CFR 
424.21(c)  for  use  in  cured 
pork  products  and  poultry 
products 

“Turkey  ham  and  water 
products” 

In  accordance  with  9 
CFR  319.104(d)  and 
424.21(c) 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

a-Cellulose  from  bamboo 

Various  comminuted 
poultry  products  where 
binders  are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  3.5 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Carrot  Fiber 

Various  comminuted 
meat  and  poultry 
products  where  binders 
are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  3.5 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000116 

List  as  “isolated 
carrot  product” 
(2) 

Hydroxypropyl 

methylcellulose 

Seasoning  mixtures  added 
to  sauces  and  gravies 
produced  under  FDA 
jurisdiction  that  will  be 
used  in  meat  and  poultry 
products 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Hydroxypropyl 

methylcellulose 

Thickener  in  meat  and 
poultry  pot  pie  fillings, 
sauces,  soups,  and  gravies 

Not  to  exceed  1 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Inulin 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products  (e.g., 
frankfiuters,  sausage, 
patties,  loaves,  pates) 
where  binders  are 
permitted 

2 to  5 percent  of  the 
product  formulation 

Acceptability 
determination  and 
GRAS  Notice  No. 
000118 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Konjac  flour 

Meat  and  poultry  products 
in  which  starchy  vegetable 
flours  are  permitted 

No  to  exceed  3.5  percent 
of  the  product 
formulation  individually 
or  collectively  with  other 
binders 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

7 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 


Methylcellulose 

Various  comminuted  meat 
and  poultry  products 
where  binders  are 
permitted 

Not  to  exceed  3.5 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Methylcellulose 

Thickener  in  meat  and 
poultry  pot  pie  fillings, 
sauces,  soups,  and 
gravies;  a binder  in 
poultry  patties,  loaves, 
and  nuggets;  a binder  in 
meat  patties,  loaves,  and 
nuggets;  texturizer  in 
Policy  Memo  12 IB  and 
123  products 

Not  to  exceed  1 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation  as  a 
thickener  in  meat  and 
poultry  pot  pie  fillings, 
sauces,  soups,  and 
gravies;  1.6  percent  as  a 
binder  in  poultry  patties, 
loaves,  and  nuggets;  0.25 
percent  as  a binder  in 
meat  patties,  loaves,  and 
nuggets;  0.6  percent  as  a 
texturizer  in  Policy 
Memo  121B  and  123 
products 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Partially  hydrolyzed 
proteins 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products  where  binders 
are  permitted. 

Not  to  exceed  3.5 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Pectin 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products  where  binders 
are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  3 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Pork  collagen 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
food  products  where 
binders  are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  3.5 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Sodium  alginate 

Various  meat  products 
where  binders  are 
permitted 

Not  to  exceed  1 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Sodium  alginate 

Various  poultry  products 
where  binders  are 
permitted 

Not  to  exceed  0.8 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Transglutaminase  enzyme 

Texturizing  agent  in  meat 
and  poultry  food  products 
where  texturizing  agents 
and  binders  are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  65  ppm  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Transglutaminase  enzyme 

Cross-linking  agent  in 
modified  meat  and  poultry 
products  addressed  in 
Policy  Memos  12 IB  and 
123 

Not  to  exceed  65  ppm  of 
the  product  formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Trehalose 

Binding  and  purge 
control  agent  in  various 
meat  and  poultry 
products  where  binders 
are  permitted 

Not  to  exceed  2 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000045 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

8 


Xanthan  gum  (purified 
by  recovery  with  ethyl 
alcohol) 

Various  meat  and 
poultry  products  where 
binders  are  permitted 

Non-standardized  meat 
and  poultry  products 
and  products  with  a 
standard  of  identity 
which  currently  permit 
the  use  of  xanthan  gum 
listed  in  9 CFR 
424.21(c) 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000121 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(4) 

Coloring  Agents 

Carmine  (cochineal) 

To  color  textured  soy 
protein  isolate  for  use  in 
dry  cured  acidified 
sausages 

0.2  to  0.4  percent  of  the 
hydrated  protein  gel. 

The  protein  gel  must  not 
exceed  30  percent  of  the 
meat  food  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(5) 

Curing  Accelerators 
(must  be  used  only  in 
combination  with  curing 
agents) 

Potassium  erythorbate 

Cured  pork  and  beef  cuts; 
cured  meat  food  products; 
cured  comminuted  poultry 
or  poultry  products 

87.5  oz.  to  100  gallons 
of  pickle  at  10  percent 
pump;  7/8  oz.  to  100  lbs. 
Of  meat,  meat  byproduct 
or  poultry  product;  10 
percent  to  surfaces  of 
cured  meat  cuts  or 
poultry  products  prior  to 
packaging 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Film  Forming  Agents 

A mixture  of  water, 
glycerin,  carrageenan,  and 
cornstarch 

Used  to  aid  in  the  release 
of  elastic  netting  on 
cooked  meat  products  that 
are  cooked  in  elastic 
netting 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

A mixture  of  water, 
glycerin,  carageenan, 
cornstarch,  and  caramel 

Used  to  aid  in  the  release 
of  elastic  netting  on 
cooked  meat  products  that 
are  cooked  in  elastic 
netting 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

“Caramel  Color”  listed 
as  an  ingredient  and  as 
a product  name 
qualifier  (2) 

A mixture  of  water, 
glycerin,  carageenan, 
cornstarch,  and  smoke 
flavoring 

Used  to  aid  in  the  release 
of  elastic  netting  on 
cooked  meat  products  that 
are  cooked  in  elastic 
netting 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

“Smoke  Flavor”  listed 
as  an  ingredient  and  as 
a product  name 
qualifier  (2) 

Gelatin  spice  sheets 

To  ensure  even 
distribution  of  seasonings 
on  cooked  pork  products 

Sufficient  for  purpose 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

9 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 


Hydroxypropyl 

methylcellulose 

Film-forming  agent  in 
glazes  for  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  4 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Methylcellulose 

Film-forming  agent  in 
glazes  for  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  3 percent 
of  the  product 
formulation  for  poultry 
products,  3.5  percent  of 
the  product  formulation 
for  meat  products 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Flavoring  Agents 

Laminaria  japonica 

As  a flavor  enhancer  or 
flavoring  agent  in 
marinades  for  meat  and 
poultry,  meat  and 
poultry  soups,  gravies, 
and  seasonings 

Not  to  exceed  0.08 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000123 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Potassium  acetate 

Various  meat  and  poultry 
products 

No  to  exceed  1 .2  percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 

(4) 

Sucralose 

Non-nutritive  sweetener 
in  various  non- 
standardized  meat  and 
poultry  products 

Not  to  exceed  500  ppm 
in  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Miscellaneous 

Cellulose  (powdered) 

To  facilitate  grinding  and 
shredding  in  cheese 

No  to  exceed  2 percent 
of  the  cheese 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Diacylglycerol  oil 

For  use  as  an  alternative 
edible  oil  in  the 
production  of  various 
meat  and  poultry 
products 

Not  to  exceed  11 
percent  of  the  meat  or 
poultry  product 
formula 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000115 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Erythorbic  Acid 

To  delay  discoloration  in 
ground  beef  and  ground 
beef  patties 

Not  to  exceed  0.04 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Product  must  be 
descriptively  labeled 
(2) 

Fish  oil  concentrate 

For  use  as  an  alternative 
edible  oil  in  the 
production  of  various 
meat  products 

Not  to  exceed  5.7 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000105 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Hydrogen  peroxide 

To  rrdiiirnize  biofihn 
buildup  on  reverse 
osmosis  and  ultrafiltration 
membranes  for  processing 
beef  plasma 

No  to  exceed  100  ppm 
added  just  prior  to 
plasma  entering 
membranes 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Small  planktivorous 
pelagic  fish  oil 

For  use  as  an  alternative 
edible  oil  in  the 
production  of  various 
meat  products 

Not  to  exceed  6.7 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

GRAS  Notice  No. 
000102 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Sodium  bicarbonate 

Neutralize  excess  acidity 
(maintain  pH)  in  fresh 
pork  and  beef  cuts 

In  an  injected  solution, 
not  to  exceed  0.5  percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

10 


Sodium  bicarbonate 

Maintain  pH  and  reduce 
purge  in  fresh  turkey 
products 

In  an  injected  solution, 
not  to  exceed  0.5  percent 
of  the  product 
formulation 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Sodium  bicarbonate 

To  soak  natural  casings  to 
ease  stuffing 

1 .06  percent  of  an 
aqueous  solution. 
Casings  must  be  rinsed 
with  potable  water  prior 
to  stuffing 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Sodium  hydroxide  and 
hydrochloric  acid 

To  adjust  the  pH  of 
(species)  plasma  during 
processing  (in  which  it  is 
exposed  to  heat)  to 
prevent  gelling 

Sufficient  for  purpose 
to  adjust  pH 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Tuna  oil 

For  use  as  an  alternative 
edible  oil  in  the 
production  of  various 
meat  products 

Not  to  exceed  6.2 
percent  of  the  product 
formulation 

GRAS  Notice 
No.  000109 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Xanthan  gum 

Suspending  agent  for 
carrageenan  in  a brine 
tank 

Not  to  exceed  2 percent 
of  the  amount  of 
carrageenan 

Acceptability 

determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (1) 

Packaging  Systems 

Carbon  monoxide  gas  as 
part  of  Cryovac’s 
modifled  atmosphere 
packaging  system 
(for  use  with  550P 
Tray/Lid) 

Packaging  fresh  cuts  of 
case  ready  muscle  meat 
and  case  ready  ground 
meat  to  maintain 
wholesomeness,  provide 
flexibility  in 

distribution,  and  reduce 
shrinkage  of  the  meat 

The  use  of  carbon 
monoxide  (0.4  %), 
carbon  dioxide  (30  %) 
and  nitrogen  (69.6  %) 
as  part  of  the  Cryovac 
low  oxygen  modified 
atmosphere  packaging 
system  used  with  550P 
Tray  /Lid 

Acceptability 

Determination 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (2) 

Carbon  monoxide  gas  as 
part  of  the  Pactiv 
modified  atmosphere 
packaging  system 
(ActiveTech  2001) 

Packaging  fresh  cuts  of 
case  ready  muscle  meat 
and  case  ready  ground 
meat  to  maintain 
wholesomeness 

The  use  of  carbon 
monoxide  (0.4  %), 
carbon  dioxide  (30  %) 
and  nitrogen  (69.6  %)  as 
part  of  the  Pactiv 
modified  atmosphere 
packaging  system 

GRAS  Notice  No. 
000083 

None  under  the 
accepted  conditions  of 
use  (2) 

Tenderizing  Agents 

Calcium  gluconate 

Raw  meat  products 

Solutions  applied  or 
injected  into  raw  meat 
shall  not  result  in  a gain 
of  3 percent  above  green 
weight 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Protease  preparation 
derived  from  Bacillus 
subtilus 

Raw  meat  products 

Solutions  applied  or 
injected  into  raw  meat 
shall  not  result  in  a gain 
of  3 percent  above  green 
weight 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

Protease  produced  from 
Bacillus  subtilus  var. 
amyloliquefaciens 

Raw  meat  products 

Solutions  applied  or 
injected  into  raw  meat 
shall  not  result  in  a gain 
of  3 percent  above  green 
weight 

Acceptability 

determination 

Listed  by  common  or 
usual  name  in  the 
ingredients  statement 
(2) 

11 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 


1)  The  use  of  the  substance(s)  is  consistent  with  FDA’s  labeling  definition  of  a processing  aid. 

2)  Generally  Recognized  as  Safe  (GRAS) 

3)  Secondary  Direct  Food  Additive 

4)  Direct  Food  Additive 

5)  Color  Additive 

6)  Food  Contact  Substance 

* Substances  identified  in  bold  print  in  the  table  are  substances  that  have  been  added  to  the  directive 
since  it  was  last  issued  on  December  17,  2002. 


12 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  2 


Questions  and  Answers  on  the 

Use  of  Antimicrobial  Agents  in  the  Production  of  Meat  and  Poultry  Products 

The  following  set  of  questions  and  answers  provide  information  regarding  the  requirements  for 
the  use  of  antimicrobial  agents  in  meat  and  poultry  production. 

References 

-Final  Rule,  “Food  Ingredients  and  Sources  of  Radiation  Listed  or  Approved  for  Use  in  the 
Production  of  Meat  and  Poultry  Products”  (December  1999). 

-MOU  between  FDA  and  FSIS  for  Ingredient  Approval  (January,  2000). 

-FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  “Safe  and  Suitable  Ingredients  Used  in  the  Production  of  Meat  and  Poultry 
Products.” 

-Guidance  document  on  “Ingredients  and  Sources  of  Radiation  Used  to  Reduce  Microorganisms  on 
Carcass,  Ground  Beef  and  Beef  Trimmings.” 

-Federal  Register  Notice,  “FSIS  Procedures  for  Notification  of  New  Technology”  (68  FR  6873) 
(February,  2003) 

-9  CFR  416.4 

-FSIS  Directive  6355.1,  “Use  of  Chlorine  Dioxide  in  Poultry  Chill  Water.” 

-9  CFR  424.21(c) 

-FSIS  Directive  6700.1,  “Retained  Water  in  Raw  Meat  and  Poultry  Products.” 

-21  CFR  Part  172,173,  182,  184 
-21  CFR  101.100(a)(3)(h) 

1.  Question:  What  is  the  definition  of  a New  Technology? 

Answer:  According  to  the  FSIS  Federal  Register  Notice  (68  FR  6873)  entitled,  “FSIS  Procedures  for 
Notification  of  New  Technology,”  FSIS  defines  a “new  technology’  as  new,  or  new  applications  of, 
equipment,  substances,  methods,  processes  or  procedures  affecting  the  slaughter  of  livestock  and 
poultry  or  processing  of  meat,  poultry,  or  egg  products  which  could  affect  product  safety,  inspection 
procedures,  inspection  program  personnel  safety,  or  require  a wavier  of  a regulation. 

2.  Question:  What  is  the  definition  of  a processing  aid? 

Answer:  According  to  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration’s  (FDA)  regulations  (21  CFR  101.100  (a) 
(3)  (ii)),  the  definition  of  a processing  aid  is: 

a.  Substances  that  are  added  to  a food  during  the  processing  of  such  food  but  are  removed  in  some 
manner  from  the  food  before  it  is  packaged  in  its  finished  form. 

b.  Substances  that  are  added  to  a food  during  processing,  are  converted  into  constituents  normally 
present  in  the  food,  and  do  not  significantly  increase  the  amount  of  the  constituents  naturally  found 
in  food. 

c.  Substances  that  are  added  to  a food  for  their  technical  or  functional  effect  in  the  processing  but 

13 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 

are  present  in  the  finished  food  at  insignificant  levels  and  do  not  have  any  technical  or  functional 
effect  in  that  food. 

An  example  of  a processing  aid  is  the  use  of  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.,  lactic,  acetic,  or  citric  acid)  to  treat 
livestock  carcasses  at  up  to  2.5%  of  a solution  applied  pre-chill. 

3.  Question:  What  are  secondary  direct  food  additives  and  direct  food  additives? 

Answer:  According  to  FDA’s  regulations  (21  CFR  Part  173),  secondary  direct  food  additives  are 
substances  whose  functionality  is  required  during  the  manufacture  or  processing  of  a food  and  are 
ordinarily  removed  from  the  final  food.  Although  residuals  might  carry  over  to  the  final  food, 
residuals  must  not  exhibit  any  technical  effects.  Secondary  direct  food  additives  are  consistent  with 
FDA’s  definition  of  a processing  aid  so  labeling  is  not  required.  Examples  of  secondary  direct  food 
additives  are  acidified  sodium  chlorite  (21  CFR  173.325)  and  peroxyacids  (21  CFR  173.370). 

According  to  FDA’s  regulations  (21  CFR  Part  172),  direct  food  additives  are  used  to  provide  a 
technical  effect  in  the  final  food.  The  antioxidants  BHA  and  BHT  are  examples  of  substances  that 
are  approved  as  direct  food  additives. 

4.  Question:  Do  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.,  lactic,  acetic,  or  citric  acid)  that  are  used  as 
antimicrobial  agents  need  to  be  declared  on  the  label  if  they  are  applied  to  livestock  carcasses 
after  the  chilling  step? 

Answer:  Organic  acid(s)  are  generally  recognized  as  safe  (GRAS)  and  are  listed  in  FSIS  regulations 
for  use  as  an  acidifier  in  various  meat  and  poultry  products  at  a level  which  is  sufficient  for  purpose 
(9  CFR  424.21(c)).  All  ingredients,  including  organic  acid(s),  require  labeling  unless  the  use  of  a 
substance  is  consistent  with  FDA’s  definition  of  a processing  aid  or  is  a secondary  direct  food 
additive. 

FSIS  has  recently  stated  no  objection  to  the  use  of  5%  hot  lactic  acid  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  to 
treat  beef  carcasses  prior  to  fabrication  (i.e.,  pre  and  post-chill).  Data  was  submitted  to  the  Agency 
that  demonstrated  no  lasting  effect  under  the  specified  conditions  of  use.  FSIS  determined  that  the 
proposed  use  is  consistent  with  the  definition  of  a processing  aid.  Therefore,  its  use  would  not  need 
to  be  reflected  on  the  labeling  for  treated  carcasses  or  products  produced  from  treated  carcasses. 

This  new  use  is  listed  in  the  table  of  this  directive. 

If  a company  is  interested  in  using  one  or  more  of  these  organic  acid(s)  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on 
livestock  carcasses  or  trim  in  a manner  other  than  that  which  is  currently  approved,  they  must 
provide  data  to  the  Agency  that  show  that  the  use  complies  with  FDA’s  definition  of  a processing 
aid.  The  data  must  show  that  the  organic  acid  has  only  a momentary  technical  effect,  not  a lasting 
effect,  on  the  meat,  e.g.,  fresh  color  is  not  preserved,  normal  spoilage  indicators  (e.g.  discoloration) 
are  not  masked;  and  there  is  no  extension  of  shelf  life  as  compared  to  products  made  with  untreated 
trimmings.  The  data  must  also  show  that  the  nutrient  composition  is  not  affected  by  the  treatment 


14 


and  the  sensory  characteristics  of  the  product  are  not  affected.  (Note:  the  reference  to  “Guidance  on 
Ingredients  and  Sources  of  Radiation  used  to  Reduce  Microorganisms  on  Carcasses,  Ground  Beef, 
and  Beef  Trim,”  can  be  accessed  at  http:  www.fsis.usda.gov/oppde/larc  at  the  “ingredients”  link) 

5.  Question:  What  is  the  maximum  amount  of  organic  acid(s)  permitted  to  be  applied  to 
livestock  carcasses  pre-chill  without  having  to  declare  the  organic  acid(s)  on  the  label? 

Answer:  Historically,  the  maximum  amount  of  organic  acid(s)  that  can  be  used  to  treat  livestock 
carcasses  without  labeling  is  up  to  2.5%  of  a solution  applied  pre-chill.  Labeling  is  not  required  for 
this  specific  use  of  organic  acid(s)  (which  the  Agency  has  permitted  for  many  years)  because  it  is 
based  on  data  that  showed  that  this  application  is  consistent  with  FDA’s  definition  of  a processing 
aid. 

Recently,  FSIS  stated  no  objection  to  the  use  of  5%  hot  lactic  acid  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on  beef 
carcasses  prior  to  fabrication  (see  question  number  four).  This  use  was  determined  to  be  consistent 
with  the  definition  of  a processing  aid.  Therefore,  its  use  would  not  need  to  be  reflected  on  the 
labeling  for  treated  carcasses  or  products  produced  from  treated  carcasses. 

6.  Question:  Do  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.,  lactic,  acetic,  or  citric  acid)  that  are  used  as  antimicrobial 
agents  need  to  be  declared  on  the  label  if  they  are  applied  to  livestock  carcasses  at  a 
concentration  above  2.5% ? 

Answer:  Unless  the  proposed  use  has  been  determined  by  FSIS  to  be  consistent  with  the  definition  of 
a processing  aid  (e.g.,  the  application  of  organic  acids  at  2.5%  of  a beef  carcass  wash  solution 
applied  pre-chill  or  the  application  of  5 percent  hot  lactic  acid  solution  to  pre  or  post  chilled  beef 
carcasses  prior  to  fabrication),  the  organic  acid(s)  would  require  labeling. 

7.  Question:  Is  the  maximum  amount  of  organic  acid(s)  allowed,  without  labeling  the  product, 
based  on  the  concentration  of  the  organic  acid(s)  applied  to  the  carcass  or  the  concentration  of 
the  organic  acid(s)  draining  from  the  carcass? 

Answer:  The  amount  of  organic  acid(s)  is  based  on  the  percentage  of  organic  acid(s)  in  the  carcass 
wash  (aqueous  solution)  prior  to  application.  It  is  not  based  on  the  residual  level  of  organic  acid(s) 
draining  from  a treated  carcass  during  application. 

8.  Question:  Do  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.  lactic,  acetic,  or  citric  acid)  have  to  be  declared  on  the 
label  if  they  are  applied  to  cut-up  and  ground  meat  and  poultry? 

Answer:  Yes,  all  ingredients,  including  organic  acid(s),  require  labeling  unless  the  use  of  a substance 
is  consistent  with  FDA’s  definition  of  a processing  aid  or  is  a secondary  direct  food  additive.  If  an 
establishment  is  interested  in  using  organic  acid(s)  to  treat  meat  and  poultry  cuts  and/or  ground  meat 
and  poultry  to  momentarily  reduce  microorganisms,  data  must  be  submitted  to  FSIS  to  show  that  the 
proposed  use  of  organic  acid(s)  is  consistent  with  FDA’s  definition  of  a processing  aid. 


15 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 

9.  Question:  Do  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.  lactic,  acetic,  or  citric  acid)  have  to  be  declared  on  the 
label  if  they  are  applied  to  livestock  or  poultry  byproducts  and  giblets  (e.g.  livers,  hearts,  and 
gizzards)? 

Answer:  No,  labeling  is  not  required  when  organic  acid(s)  are  applied  pre-chill  at  up  to  2.5%  of  an 
aqueous  solution  to  treat  livestock  and  poultry  byproducts  and  giblets. 

10.  Question:  Are  organic  acid(s)  used  as  antimicrobial  agents  permitted  to  be  used  on  poultry 
carcasses? 

Answer:  Yes,  organic  acid(s)  are  GRAS  and  are  listed  in  FSIS  regulations  for  use  as  an  acidifier 
(which  may  have  an  antimicrobial  effect)  in  various  meat  and  poultry  products  at  a level  which  is 
sufficient  for  purpose  (9  CFR  424.21(c)).  Organic  acid(s)  are  permitted  to  be  applied  to  poultry 
carcasses  pre-chill  at  a concentration  of  up  to  2.5  percent  of  a solution  without  labeling. 

11.  Question:  If  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.,  lactic,  acetic,  or  citric  acid)  are  used  on  ready-to-eat 
products  as  a spray  or  dip,  must  the  application  be  followed  by  a potable  water  rinse? 

Answer:  No,  the  use  of  organic  acid(s)  on  ready-to-eat  products  are  not  required  to  be  followed  by  a 
potable  water  rinse.  However,  the  organic  acid(s)  will  be  considered  ingredients  that  require 
labeling  unless  data  can  be  submitted  to  FSIS  that  show  that  their  use  is  consistent  with  FDA’s 
definition  of  a processing  aid. 

12.  Question:  Are  organic  acid(s)  (e.g.,  lactic,  acetic  or  citric  acid)  permitted  to  be  used  on  a 
continuous  basis  on  conveyor  belts?  What  are  the  conditions  for  their  use?  When  do  the 
organic  acids  need  to  be  declared  on  a product  label? 

Answer:  FSIS  has  no  objection  to  the  use  of  organic  acids  on  conveyor  belts  on  a continuous  basis. 
However,  the  process  should  not  result  in  the  organic  acid(s)  having  a lasting  technical  effect  on 
meat  or  poultry  which  comes  into  contact  with  the  conveyor  belts.  Labeling  is  required  if  the  organic 
acid(s)  exhibit  a lasting  technical  effect  on  meat  or  poultry  which  comes  into  contact  with  the  treated 
conveyor  belts. 

13.  Question:  Are  antimicrobial  agents  other  than  organic  acid(s)  permitted  to  be  used  on  a 
continuous  basis  on  conveyor  belts  if  they  are  approved  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  in  the 
production  of  meat  and  poultry  products?  What  are  the  conditions  for  their  use?  When  do 
the  antimicrobial  agents  have  to  be  included  on  a product  label? 

Answer:  Yes,  antimicrobial  agents  approved  for  use  in  the  production  of  meat  and  poultry  products 
may  be  used  on  conveyor  belts  provided  they  are  followed  by  a potable  water  rinse.  Substances 
listed  in  21  CFR  178.1010  may  be  used  in  sanitizing  solutions  on  food  contact  surfaces  with  only 
adequate  draining  (no  water  rinse)  before  contact  with  food. 

14.  Question:  Is  trisodium  phosphate  (TSP)  permitted  to  be  used  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on 
livestock  carcasses,  viscera,  and  parts? 


16 


Answer:  TSP  may  only  be  used  on  livestock  carcasses  according  to  interim  Agency  policy. 

15.  Question:  Where  is  TSP  allowed  to  be  used  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on  poultry? 

Answer:  FSIS  regulations  (9  CFR  424.21  (c))  permit  the  use  of  TSP  on  raw  post-chill  poultry 
carcasses.  In  addition,  FSIS  has  permitted  the  application  of  TSP  to  raw  poultry  carcasses  pre-chill 
by  spraying  or  dipping  the  carcasses  with  an  8-12%  solution  maintained  within  a temperature  range 
of  65°  F to  85°  F for  up  to  15  seconds.  FSIS  has  permitted  the  spraying  or  dipping  of  poultry  giblets 
for  up  to  30  seconds  with  an  8-12%  solution  of  TSP  pre-chill. 

TSP  is  also  used  in  some  on-line  reprocessing  operations.  Establishments  which  use  on-line 
reprocessing  operate  under  an  experimental  exemption  listed  in  9 CFR  381.3(c).  The  conditions  of 
use  for  TSP  in  on-line  reprocessing  are  limited  by  the  parameters  listed  in  the  FSIS  approved  on-line 
reprocessing  protocol,  not  the  conditions  of  use  listed  above. 

16.  Question:  Is  chlorine  dioxide  permitted  to  be  used  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on  livestock 
carcasses,  viscera,  and  parts? 

Answer:  No. 

17.  Question:  Is  chlorine  dioxide  allowed  to  be  used  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on 
poultry?  What  are  the  conditions  for  its  use? 

Answer:  Chlorine  dioxide  may  be  used  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  to  treat  water  in  poultry  processing 
as  prescribed  in  FDA’s  regulations  (21  CFR  173.300).  Residual  chlorine  dioxide  must  not  exceed  3 
ppm  in  the  poultry  processing  water. 

18.  Question:  Is  hydrogen  peroxide  allowed  to  be  used  as  an  antimicrobial  agent  on  meat  and 
poultry  products  (e.g.  carcasses,  parts,  processed  products)? 

Answer:  No,  hydrogen  peroxide  is  listed  as  GRAS  in  FDA  regulations  (21  CFR  184.1366)  for  use  as 
a bleaching  agent  to  treat  beef  feet  and  in  FSIS  regulations  (9  CFR  424.21  (c))  as  a bleaching  agent 
to  treat  tripe  (followed  by  a water  rinse).  It  is  also  a component  of  peroxyacids  (21  CFR  173.370). 

19.  Question:  Can  any  and  all  anti-microbial  agents  be  used  on  poultry  carcasses  during  on- 
line reprocessing? 

Answer:  No,  on-line  reprocessing  operations  function  under  an  experimental  exemption  (9  CFR 
381.3  (c)).  The  use  of  antimicrobial  agents  in  on-line  reprocessing  are  limited  by  the  parameters  of 
the  FSIS  approved  on-line  reprocessing  protocol. 

20.  Question:  Can  antimicrobial  agents  be  used  (spray  or  dip)  on  the  same  carcasses  or  parts 
more  than  once,  without  labeling? 

Answer:  Yes,  antimicrobial  agents  may  be  used  more  than  once.  However,  the  antimicrobial  agents 
must  be  used  in  accordance  with  the  approved  or  accepted  conditions  of  use.  Labeling  is  required 

17 


FSIS  Directive  7120.1,  Amendment  1 

Attachment  1 

unless  the  use  of  the  substance  is  consistent  with  FDA’s  definition  of  a processing  aid  or  is  a 
secondary  direct  food  additive. 

21.  Question:  Do  all  uses  of  antimicrobial  agents  need  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  9 
CFR  441.10  for  retained  water?  What  are  the  requirements? 

Answer:  Yes,  any  establishment  that  uses  a post-evisceration  process  that  results  in  water  retention 
in  raw  livestock  or  poultry  carcasses  or  parts  must  maintain  on  file  a written  data  collection  protocol 
in  accordance  with  9 CFR  441.10  (c)  (1).  Any  treatment  in  the  chilling  process  such  as  antimicrobial 
treatments  should  be  described  in  the  protocol.  An  establishment  does  not  have  to  maintain  a 
protocol  on  file  if  it  has  data  or  information  that  clearly  demonstrates  that  its  products  do  not  retain 
water  as  a result  of  the  process,  e.g.,  spraying  boneless  meat  with  antimicrobial  agents  where  the  end 
product  does  not  retain  water  from  the  antimicrobial  application  (FSIS  Directive  6700.1). 


( 


18 


( 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
Printing  Management  Section,  ASD 
5601  Sunnyside  Avenue,  Maii  Drop  5241 
BeKsville,  MD  20705-5241 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 
USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON.  D.C. 


□ 


DIRECTIVE 


□ 


REVISION 


CHANGE  TRANSMinAL  SHEET 


AMENDMENTS 


□ 


OTHER 


FSIS  Directive 

7220.1 

Food  Labeling  Division 

Rev.  2 

1-27-93 

Policy  Memoranda 

Amend . 13 

I . PURPOSE 

This  document  transmits  seven  policy  memoranda,  Amendment  13,  to 
FSIS  Directive  7220.1,  Revision  2,  dated  August  24,  1988,  due  to 
publication  of  final  nutrition  labeling  regulations  on  January  6, 
1993,  This  regulation  is  effective  on  July  6,  1994. 


II.  CHANGES 

A.  Insert  the  following  policy  memoranda  in  numerical  order 
in  Attachment  1 of  FSIS  Directive  7220.1,  Revision  2. 

Policy  Memo  No.  Date 

1993 
1993 

1993  t 
1993 
1993 

1993  V 

1993 


046A 

January 

6 

049D 

January 

6 

070C 

January 

6 

071B 

January 

6 

078A 

January 

6 

086A 

January 

6 

12  lA 

January 

6 

B.  The  following  policy  memoranda  are  in  effect  during  the 
interim  period  of  January  6,  1993,  through  July  6,  1994,  but  will 
be  rescinded  July  6,  1994.  Except  for  Policy  Memorandum  12 lA, 
the  policy  memoranda  listed  in  II.,  A.,  above  will  also  be 
rescinded  July  6,  1994  (See  Attachment) . 


Policy  Memo  No. 

007 

039 


Date 

August  20,  1980 
January  18,  1982 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors,  OPI:  PEPS/RDU 

Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


C.  The  following  policy  memoranda  are  in  effect  during  the 
interim  period  of  January  6,  1993,  through  July  6,  1994,  but  will 
be  revised  July  6,  1994  (See  Attachment). 

Policy  Memo  No.  Date 

016A  March  27,  1981 

019A  May  4,  1987 

069  March  23,  1984 

114  July  6,  1988 

12 lA  January  6,  1993 


III.  POLICY 

A.  Companies  desiring  to  continue  declaring  nutrition- 
related  information  on  labels  in  accordance  with  existing  policy 
memoranda  may  do  so  until  July  6,  1994. 

B.  During  the  interim  period,  labels  must  conform  either  to 
policies  established  in  the  cited  policy  memoranda  or  the  new 
regulations,  but  not  both.  No  combinations  will  be  allowed. 


IV.  CANCELLATION 

A.  The  following  policy  memoranda  are  cancelled  and  should 
be  removed  (See  Attachment) . 


Policy  Memo  No. 


Date 


07 4 A November  4,  1986 

085B  January  26,  1988 


B.  This  change  transmittal  is  cancelled 
been  incorporated  into  FSIS  Directive  7220.1, 


m-tAiZO 


Food  Labeling  Division 
Regulatory  Programs 


when  contents  have 
Revision  2 . 


Attachments 


Page  2 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7220.1 
Revision  2 
Amendment  13 
Attachment 


CHANGES  AS  A RESULT  OF  THE 
NUTRITION  LABELING  REGULATIONS 


Rescind 

Now 

Follow 
until 
July  6, 
1994* 

Follow 
until 
July  6, 
1994** 

074A 

007 

016A 

085B 

039 

019A 

046A 

114 

049D 

12  lA 

070C 

069 

071B 

078A 

086A 

121A 

* These  policy  memoranda  will  be  rescinded 
on  July  6,  1994. 

**  These  policy  memoranda  will  be  revised 
on  July  6,  1994. 


Page  3 


^ i 


r,?j 


: li  Wm, 


r< 

A 1ft  mt  ‘ 

,Tvl/ 


./■  /- 

Vl.  'f*';rtti^,  - ...•^^^5.--'w  • 


V'* 


I « 

«i  •*  -^  ( 


i^jr?  to  lKri?i4|i  /-iej^c 
r atfOTT4Lciaif  iipusaiM  ttoiti 

Jvij*  "^nrsi 

■?'ar  — 


ui. 


FCII 


E'-.. 


T 


Vi, 

«• 


»^liol  I 

mutj  f 

%#  fX<rt  < 


3 I i:J«0 

r-w  g»Utftd  :itgorTJrlo-v  .->rt  m 

j^,>.  >:...  fte/  iSTTL/^i;^  • TT 


..>Ciic‘e3  <?3tabJ 

ret 


Vo  coia*w 


A^ro 


I. 


Ad^O 


. ^ .,  ./?  ..V 

'.  'iHo  . V ^'■'•I'TV  cuatcmnjli!;  «;  'I-  W V- >t|- ’.''J<t- #ac  i«iOw3 

r«,  «,;«d  , :?(i|'  - ; ’ 


i ■►>*■ 


ocro 


.'lii 


[mrr^  I 


Nr‘;-rc* 

k ‘ nc^.  n#v 

■■  . ^':?>f«''. , 


. a 


j- 


■I  '-\'  t^fi ' I 

:\M 


Stroyoi^iar>'  ift,  *»4  ^ 

ifi  ■ * 


:'.\n  inftiV. 


.V • ■ fbs^.l  iiu  "ulji  i ■ Cen*:  r r;  -a^ ■ ru\ 

•»  r.«-r  t?e:|T  r ^a«^,V  *^ikl  ' r.  1 ^ " • 


- :'  . 

- t . A « V > 


■ ■rC^rcj, 

" ' r \ Lihi i 1 f . : ii  vi^  V j .1 
• :*j|  li  c i y i to^ 


A»eo 


iU£x 


>, 


C 1 


-C, 


J:.  ; 


•b^^rtxoaai  »<f  iliv  \nl;ioq  g^aariT 

Ylc/lf  no 


i*'  - ‘»;f 


.if4£/v*^-*  lid  fl.;w  -1  V >lXu  , ** 

. ^<691  |ik  -^Ji/L  no 


t '■ 


■ ■ .;5 


■M  fe  t 


.ii 


4li*. 


•,  ^-m::^.  rv-S'-' 


United  States 
(U  A-jfij  Department  of 


Agriculture 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


To:  Branch  CM 


From: 


>ns.  Director 
Food  Labeling  DiVision 
Regulatory  Programs 


Policy  Memo  046A 


Subject:  Percent  Fat  Free  Label  Declarations 


ISSUE:  Requirements  for  the  approval  of  percent  fat  free 

declarations • 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  046.  Percent 

fat  free  statements,  e.g.,  ”95%  Fat  Free,”  are  acceptable  on 
product  labels  if  the  labels  also  bear  a positive  declaration 
of  the  product's  fat  content,  e.g.,  ”contains  5%  fat.”  This 
percent  fat  statement  should  be  contiguous  to  the  percent  fat 
free  statement  and  be  displayed  in  a prominent  manner. 

The  percent  fat  free  statement  and  the  accompanying  statement 
of  the  fat  content  are  considered  representations  of  the  fat 
content  of  the  product  only  and  do  not  necessarily  represent 
the  fat  free  portion  as  lean  material.  Thus,  concomitant  claims 
of  the  lean  content,  such  as  ”95%  Lean,”  will  be  closely 
scrutinized. 

RATIONALE:  These  guidelines  are  issued  to  identify  the  policy 

the  meat  and  poultry  industry  may  use  for  the  labeling  of 
percent  fat  free  information  during  the  period  between  the 
promulgation  of  the  nutrition  labeling  regulations  (January  6, 
1993)  and  its  implementation  date  (July  6,  1994) . The  guide- 
lines essentially  reflect  policy  that  has  been  applied  to 
percent  fat  free  labeling  for  a number  of  years,  with  the 
exception  that  the  requirements  for  data  submission  at  the  time 
of  label  approval  and  the  need  for  a Nutrition  Labeling 
Verification  procedure  or  Partial  Quality  Control  program  have 
been  deleted.  The  Agency  believes  that  it  is  necessary  to 
remove  these  requirements  so  that  the  industry  may  devote 
existing  resources  to  the  development  of  the  nutritional 
information  needed  to  comply  with  the  new  nutrition  labeling 
regulations . 


FSiS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630  5.  WOHICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED 


•■,5r 


«>  vV 


* ^'4k 


21^' 


feaKftk  » 


yi^ifr^t>oo=> 

5Vv>»2 

m,\ 


4 


I {4  A k* T 


4KflHu>nQA 


Ad»Q  oaaJf  yoiio*! 


«f..  ■' 

I 


*• 


9%^ifi0  ffonaiS 

/ \ 


■» 


iil 


M. 


*4 


^ ‘ C -'•'>-^n-.S»/>^'  .. 

ipfliifeJevi  booT;"^^ 
fs Uip^K 

:-'  .«ir 

■ 1 V 

s.-Toi^aisIaafl  i^6u  :i6i  ^fias-aa?!  f>*)<Siie 


n^^ll  3«1  lO  Xfivo:iqqo  Sil^.rpKi  GtriSfi^aTtiifpaflf  i3cn^3X 


» t 


«anOl^fS^5l09& 


.♦.  n 


•iae^iru 

s • - A«:-  a 


snsD'HB^  *di*Q  c«  e«>B|q«  CEfi^gi  YPiio^  aXffr 

no  atdiBaqao&ff  I2«**  • ;>  ® 

n -syii'iaoq  A ‘iB3d  o«X»  aX#dAl  s.-L?  ii  mifnlF  i;  ^ft;ui>o:zq 
ijiiTT  #e  emtfiifr*,!*’ . v*P*»  ,:ta9^floo  &aj  Ito 

£i(iJ  od  tofoiplJaoo  eki  bierf^n  cfnamoymia 
.2T»qa40  liiprticQ-iq  ^ ftJ:  bs^Blqeib  ®cf  fwtfi  ^brii 

dnaoi^dsS»-  pnJ:^(ftsrq!£^^^  sdi  tan  :ynmmAdBdm  ©oai/ >:injK>-?»4  art? 
3CI-T  ^o  ^eifcxqa^  box^blJinbo  bib  3fj«a;..o^;  :fel.  arf:»  io 

dnBBmdqan  ^Ijitusa^^  \ Jtat  ofa  Yfno  Ic 

ksttalo  :^fU8^,iaoo rtco  ^ot^rfi’  rabX  gea  noi:t^  I assa  ^6*5  ad:} 

-•.i-  \X:xn<ilo  ikJ  i'Xi.  '»,n5iKj  $tt**  ee  tioua  ^dn^daQ^k  9«»1  adJ  So 
,rw  * 5.  - ■ * * ' . , 5' 

fit.-.*.  .«  '■'»•  -I-  ■ . . 

YoxXoq  ftfU  Bim  j4UMOI%4^ 

miXwRdl  id'l:}  y*»  ’nta’xwCKj  :Jao« 

bAS  Ir^i'iAq  Bdd  poi'XLrb  noidma-ioln^  ;}ftf>;?at><*? 

^d  y^JwaATi)  ?nii»<lifcX  u^i-ainian  afli  noi:t0pXuiiau^ 

-acioi?  arfS  -C^e^X  ,d  a^Ab  /roi^aXnaftMqfsi  a^i  bfi»>  (C4;ei 

: / aX:-Xjoxiqqs  aaed  Y^Xloq  MXialxtft««9  aanxi 

^' • ^ : adJ^,il:}lv  s 'loi  ^r^adaX  s#“xt 

a<g2a  i>rtd  aa  itgiBBlpdlia 

> gxuXft4fiiX  xjaxuuJ^^ 

vyMjS^MimixiSLXxsaJnQ'^ 

o:}  «i  d-i  \jri0pA  adT  ^kt^i 

o^ovat  Yf«  \^daubcn  octd  St :(/  03  i:.5ffr9«»'xii/p93  #J#dn;?  <?y!«ii!«Pi 
* iamiljfix^yrr  add  io  iq^jflqoXavB!  s^fd-aX  saoiMcaad  ec*i3t.;s 
^i.  i,Bd*i±  vnc  xd . Jidcrif  wn  ad XN  ftdx v x^,aot  od  fcafe^n  nal  3Jh|  7 ;j  i 

. crroidf.  .1  at*  if 

4>  'k.*  • »'*'::*  ■*''flHI 

-Xb . -ijr*  -'■  ' - •' 


:-vll((M*  ■.  A- 


i«»uu  i«  %HKH 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


United  States 
Department  of 


Agriculture 


Food  Labeling  Division 
Regulatory  Programs 


Subject:  Sodium  Labeling  Guidelines 


ISSUE:  What  guidelines  should  be  followed  in  the  review 

and  approval  of  labeling  which  includes  sodium  and/or  salt 
information? 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  049C. 

1.  The  label  of  any  meat  or  poultry  product  may  bear 
quantitative  information  on  the  amount  of  sodium  in  a serving 
of  the  product.  When  this  information  is  provided,  the  serving 
size  must  appear  on  the  label  and  must  be  within  the  range  of 
serving  sizes  customarily  used  for  that  product.  Sodium  content 
information  may  be  included  without  other  nutrition  information. 

2.  Quantitative  information  on  sodium  content  shall  be  declared 
in  terms  of  milligrams  (mg)  per  serving  of  the  product.  The 
sodium  content  shall  be  expressed  as  zero  when  the  serving 
contains  less  than  5 mg,  to  the  nearest  5 mg  increment  when 

the  serving  contains  5 to  140  mg  of  sodium,  and  to  the  nearest 
10  mg  increment  when  the  serving  contains  greater  than  140  mg 
of  sodium. 

3.  Nutrition  labeling  does  not  require  the  inclusion  of  sodium 
content  information.  However,  if  sodium  content  information  is 
included  on  the  nutrition  information  panel  of  a meat  or  poultry 
product,  the  sodivim  content  information  must  immediately  follow 
the  information  on  fat  content  (or,  if  provided,  any  information 
on  fatty  acid  and/or  cholesterol  content) . 

4.  When  a claim  is  made  about  the  sodium  and/or  salt  content 
of  a product,  the  label  of  the  product  must  bear  quantitative 
information  on  the  sodium  content  in  a serving  of  the  product. 

5.  "Very  Low  Sodium"  may  be  applied  only  to  products  that 
contain  35  mg  or  less  of  sodium  per  serving.  "Low  Sodium" 
may  be  applied  only  to  products  that  contain  140  mg  or  less 


FSIS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630  S.  VWHICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-2- 


Policy  Memo  049D 


of  sodium  per  serving.  "Sodium  Free”  and  similar  terms  may  be 
applied  only  to  products  that  contain  less  than  5 mg  of  sodium 
per  serving.  "Salt  Free”  and  similar  terms  may  be  applied  only 
to  products  that  qualify  to  be  labeled  "Sodium  Free.” 

6.  "Unsalted"  or  "No  Salt  Added”  or  "Without  Added  Salt”  or 

an  equivalent  term  may  be  applied  to  products  only  if:  (1)  no 

salt  is  added  during  processing  and  no  ingredient  contains  salt 
(sodium  chloride) , and  (2)  the  product  that  it  resembles  and  for 
which  it  substitutes  is  normally  processed  with  salt. 

7.  "Reduced  Sodium”  may  be  applied  only  to  those  products  which 
have  been  formulated  to  serve  as  and  are  represented  as  direct 
replacements  for  foods  containing  at  least  four  times  the  sodium 
content  (75  percent  reduction) . The  label  of  the  product  shall 
provide  quantitative  information  comparing  the  sodium  content 
per  serving  of  the  reduced  product  with  that  of  an  equivalent 
serving  of  the  product  it  replaces.  This  information  should  be 
in  immediate  conjunction  with  the  claim  or  referenced  by  an 
asterisk. 

8.  A comparative  sodium  content  claim  may  not  be  made  unless: 

(1)  a product's  sodium  content  is  at  least  25  percent  less  than 
that  of  the  appropriate  product (s)  with  which  it  is  compared, 
and  (2)  the  comparative  claim  is  accompanied  by  (in  immediate 
conjunction  with  the  claim  or  referenced  by  an  asterisk)  an 
identification  of  the  product (s)  with  which  the  comparison  is 
being  made  and  a quantitative  statement  of  the  relative  or 
absolute  difference  in  sodium  content  per  serving  (using 
equivalent  serving  sizes)  of  the  product (s)  being  compared. 
Examples  of  such  claims  would  be  "This  bologna  has  25%  less 
sodium  per  serving  than  our  regular  bologna,”  or  "This  bologna 
contains  125  mg  less  sodium  per  serving  than  the  three  leading 
brands  of  bologna.”  While  a 25  percent  reduction  in  sodium  is 
necessary  in  order  to  make  such  comparative  claims,  companies 
are  encouraged  to  decrease  the  sodium  content  of  their  products 
in  lesser  amounts  and,  if  necessary,  incrementally  as  experience 
is  gathered. 

RATIONALE:  These  guidelines  are  issued  to  identify  the  policy 

the  meat  and  poultry  industry  may  use  for  the  labeling  of  sodium 
information  during  the  period  between  the  promulgation  of  the 
nutrition  labeling  regulations  (January  6,  1993)  and  its 
implementation  date  (July  6,  1994) . The  guidelines  essentially 
reflect  the  policy  that  has  been  applied  to  sodium  information 
labeling  for  a number  of  years,  with  the  exception  that  the 
requirements  for  data  submission  at  the  time  of  label  approval 
and  the  need  for  a Nutrition  Labeling  Verification  procedure  or 
Partial  Quality  Control  program  have  been  deleted.  The  Agency 
believes  that  it  is  necessary  to  remove  these  requirements  so 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-3- 


Policy  Memo  049D 


that  the  industry  may  devote  existing  resources  to  the 
development  of  the  nutritional  information  needed  to  comply 
with  the  new  nutrition  labeling  regulations. 


r.X' 


h 


.V. 


i-  ■•^•^->g^i|i 


to' pt-o^ttT •. ‘^  thar  * ■ ’f  1 ire*." 

6.  or  *>10  ^fr  r TA<i<^k -Mtt*  4b|"  vi 

4^  #<}Ul  Al#nt  t«T»  »Ay  be  «:<>  prr>l^i«|ts  Iff  pj  fi^  j 

®4lt  1»  JUMNM  4iiring  uaro^r^^.-iing  r^f.taihs 

-(s^^iutj.  c^Xori^Xm)  f avid  f."  * tha  prod(Mtt  tfhiit'  iV  ^"*v 

Whid4  it  •Ul&i-.vit-.itaa  la  trcK --■  J&iiX  witf  ■ «'■ 

7.  “liada?^  9Mlu«**  way  ooJjf  to  .j  r prod  - js  4.<-.i.nfi 

fosranilatad  awtva  itO  an4  rapri^nt^4 

V^piacai)f!rnt4 ^ toc<  a entaivkina  ^ tij^  flBi  acKaiim 

ro:\taht  maornsi^  t^vsjst^x  m)  . r^m  l«Mbal  of  aitall 

provide  q^r*.r*litativ*^  intore^tion  < r ?f  JLivi  taa  acdSor  '’^tdpjL  j { 


''0<krvir  v "f  taplacd^^  ' 'tlilr  'ifV 


in  icisotii 

aater  l*)c 

,(•1*^  » * ' 


i^lKhjixnctlon  irltti  the  cXmImc}.  r^i  rtaXm^ 


kt 


* f If 


M 


8.  'A  ‘conparftV.ivc^  'odbato  aavr.i,‘;ii„  ^ 

^..<5?:  4 eV^iuift  o/Hitan^f  ir  4t  teaat 

thsi^k  Mppr^r  tj.*ite  pro^e^la^  it  .^  ’ 


3rsd  tlfe  cu  rjVi^tiva  «r^ai»  apcc»n;s  Va^  Iny  (1^,  xw 
car^unotiGTi  vitti  tn«  viniat  ci  rnr^r«ncpct  i>y  %jn 
Uiaotl.'icataon  i?f  the  product  ^3}  JJk•ta  v>4c|l  4%l>^  •‘’oppAr; 


ar-"  .i^>r4  tB«  ^epditia  'cc5fitai|^ ' tfc?*TF 

is  gttthsrado  -,  ' ...  /;'*  ’ ,r*"'" 

1.'.  ...  ^ ■, 

aa,?-/o?tai*B:  ' ida'ivi-f r 

t>ve  r>eax  ' arWi'^Sd^ilti^-iH^xWtry;  rot 

nf  omalltofi  dur  hip#  th<^\&rlpd 
r*v  *■  r i t ioH  tabe  •«  4rvg*'^rT^tiljic  i9|a  i - ap^*' 

iip.iea»efitS^^n  d4t*?  ' ., 

f' til 'policy  tH\t  haS'  $atii ^ppl ltd  tp  lf<^;).\m^ 


f^y 

' y^'  V ^ -:  ^ 


if  - a.,f^  ^ 
^ 


‘ e«  rd8i^^f#wAta 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


To:  Branch  Chiefs, 


From:  Xshland  L.  Clemoils,  Director 
Food  Labeling  Division 
Regulatory  Programs 


Policy  Memo  070C 


Subject:  Fat  and  Lean  Claims 


ISSUE:  What  are  the  guidelines  for  the  review  and  approval  of 

labeling  claims  relating  to  the  fat  and  lean  content  of  meat  and 
poultry  products? 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  070B.  Emphatic 

expressions  of  the  lean  content  of  a meat  or  poultry  product, 
e.g.,  "lean,”  "extra  lean,”  and  "low  fat,”  and  comparative 
expressions  of  lean  or  fat  content,  e.g.,  "leaner,”  "lower  fat,” 
"less  fat,”  may  be  used  in  the  labeling  of  meat  and  poultry 
products . 

"Low  Fat”  may  be  used  only  for  those  products  that  contain  no 
more  than  10  percent  fat.  "Lean”  may  be  used  only  for  those 
products  that  contain  no  more  than  10  percent  fat  except  for 
ground  beef  and  hamburger.  "Extra  lean”  may  be  used  only  for 
those  products  that  contain  no  more  than  5 percent  fat  except 
for  ground  beef  and  hamburger.  In  each  case,  the  actual  amount 
of  fat  in  the  product  must  be  disclosed,  e.g.,  "contains  4 
percent  fat”  and  either  accompany  the  claim  or  be  referenced  by 
means  of  an  asterisk  and  placed  elsewhere  on  the  principal 
display  panel,  on  the  information  panel,  or  be  included  as  a 
part  of  other  nutrition  information. 

When  ground  beef  and  hamburger  are  labeled  as  "lean”  or  "extra 
lean,”  they  must  have  at  least  a 25  percent  reduction  in  fat 
from  the  regulatory  standard  of  30  percent  fat  (i.e.,  they  can 
contain  no  more  than  22.5  percent  fat).  In  each  case,  the 
actual  fat  percentage  and  the  lean  percentage  must  either 
accompany  the  claim  or  be  referenced  by  means  of  an  asterisk  and 
placed  elsewhere  on  the  principal  display  panel.  For  example, 

20  percent  fat  ground  beef  could  be  labeled  "Lean  Ground  Beef, 
Contains  80  percent  Lean  and  20  percent  Fat.”  Ground  beef  or 
hamburger,  not  labeled  as  "lean”  or  "extra  lean,”  may  continue 
to  be  labeled  with  a fat  percentage  (i.e..  Contains  20  percent 
Fat) . However,  ground  beef  and  hamburger  may  not  be  labeled 


FSIS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630-S.  WHICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-2- 


Policy  Memo  070C 


with  only  a lean  percentage.  A fat  percentage  must  accompany 
any  claim  about  the  lean  content.  In  all  cases,  the  fat 
percentage  must  be  in  lettering  of  the  Scune  size,  type,  and  on 
the  scune  background  as  the  lean  percentage. 

Comparative  expressions  of  the  lean  or  fat  content  of  products 
may  be  used  only  if  there  is  at  least  a 25  percent  reduction  or 
difference  in  fat  or  lean  content  from  (1)  the  cunount  of  fat 
permitted  by  an  applicable  standard  if  the  eunount  of  fat  identi- 
fied by  the  standard  is  representative  of  the  majority  of  the 
products  in  the  marketplace,  e.g.,  a comparison  to  the  pork 
sausage  standard  would  not  be  permitted  because  market-basket 
surveys  have  shown  that  the  average  fat  content  of  pork  sausage 
is  approximately  40  percent  and  not  close  to  the  50  percent 
fat  allowed  by  the  standard,  (2)  the  eonount  of  fat  in  a market- 
basket  survey  of  comparable  products,  or  (3)  the  amount  of 
fat  in  a similar  product  or  class  of  products  as  found  in 
recent  applicable  references  such  as  the  revised  editions  of 
Composition  of  Foods  - Agriculture  Handbook  No.  8.  An  expla- 
nation that  includes  quantitative  information  about  the  fat  or 
lean  content  of  the  lower  fat  product  and  a comparison  of  its 
fat  or  lean  content  to  any  of  the  above  references  must  also  be 
included  on  the  labeling.  For  example,  the  explanation  for  a 
product  labeled  "Leaner  Italian  Sausage"  might  be  "This  product 
contains  24  percent  fat,  which  is  30  percent  less  fat  than 
allowed  by  the  USDA  standard  for  Italian  Sausage." 

Fanciful  names,  brand  names,  and  trademarks  often  include  lean 
terms.  In  the  case  of  frozen  dinners  and  entrees,  the  terms  are 
assumed  to  represent  these  products  as  useful  in  the  reduction 
or  maintenance  of  body  weight.  An  example  is  "Lean  Cuisine." 
When  such  terms  are  used  for  this  purpose,  the  products  must  be 
nutritionally  labeled  in  accordance  with  Policy  Memo  039.  In 
other  situations  where  the  terms  are  included  in  fanciful  names, 
brand  names,  and  trademarks  to  convey  the  leanness  of  a product 
or  a substantial  reduction  in  fat,  the  explanation  for  compar- 
ative expressions  of  lean  or  fat  content  described  therein  is 
required  unless  the  products  meet  the  definitions  for  "lean," 
"extra  lean,"  or  "low  fat." 

All  products  with  claims  about  the  lean  content  will  be  closely 
examined  to  assure  that  the  products  became  leaner  due  to  the 
replacement  of  fat  by  lean  material,  i.e.,  indigenous  meat  or 
poultry  protein  and  the  natural  moisture  associated  with  the 
protein.  In  situations  where  a fat  content  declaration  would 
not  accurately  reflect  the  lean  content  of  the  product,  a 
statement  that  discloses  the  actual  amount  of  lean  material  in 
the  leaner  product  expressed  as  the  percent  lean  material  or 
percent  protein  may  be  needed,  e.g.,  "50  percent  leaner  than 

average  — contains  25  percent  protein."  These 

statements  may  accompany  the  claim  or  be  referenced  by  means  of 


Branch  Chiefs^  FLD 


-3- 


Policy  Memo  070C 


an  asterisk  and  placed  elsewhere  on  the  principal  display  panel 
or  on  the  information  panel. 

Generally,  the  emphatic  claims  "lean”  and  "extra  lean”  will  be 
limited  to  products  composed  solely  of  fat  and  lean  material 
with  no  added  substances  such  as  water  or  extenders.  In  those 
limited  situations  where  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  the  product 
before  and  after  the  addition  of  any  added  substances  contained 
no  more  than  10  percent  or  5 percent  fat,  as  the  case  may  be, 
the  emphatic  claims  may  be  used.  For  example,  a ham  and  water 
product  could  not  be  labeled  "lean”  if  it  contained  10  percent 
fat,  since  the  product  became  lean  by  dilution  with  water  and 
other  added  substances.  However,  if  the  meat  portion  contained 
no  more  than  10  percent  fat  before  processing,  the  product  could 
be  labeled  "lean.” 

The  policy  of  allowing  on  the  labeling  of  whole  cuts  or  parts 
of  meat  or  poultry  terms  such  as  "lean”  and  "extra  lean”  if 
stated  in  the  possessive  and  accompanied  by  a guarantee 
statement  has  been  withdrawn.  These  products  must  meet  the 
definitions  for  use  of  these  terms.  Comparative  terms,  e.g., 
"leaner,”  "lower  fat,”  etc.,  may  be  used  if  there  is  at  least 
a 25  percent  decrease  in  fat  or  increase  in  lean  content  of  the 
product.  In  this  case,  a comparative  explanation  as  described 
above  is  required. 

The  terms  "lean,”  ”50/50,”  and  other  similar  designations 
which  are  used  as  meat  industry  trade  terms  to  designate  the 
leanness  of  meat  for  further  processing  are  acceptable  without 
an  explanation  as  required  by  this  policy  memo.  However,  when 
the  lean  or  fat  content  is  expressed  as  a true  percentage,  the 
company  must  either  add  contiguous  to  the  product  name  the 
phrase,  "For  Further  Processing,”  or  some  similar  designation 
that  indicates  the  product  is  to  be  further  processed. 

RATIONALE:  These  guidelines  are  issued  to  identify  the  policy 
the  meat  and  poultry  industry  may  use  for  the  labeling  of  fat 
and  lean  claims  during  the  period  between  the  promulgation  of 
the  nutrition  labeling  regulations  (January  6,  1993)  and  its 
implementation  date  (July  6,  1994) . The  guidelines  essentially 
reflect  the  policy  that  has  been  applied  to  fat  and  lean  claims 
for  a number  of  years,  with  the  exception  that  the  recfuirements 
for  data  submission  at  the  time  of  label  approval  and  the  need 
for  a Nutrition  Labeling  Verification  procedure  or  Partial 
Quality  Control  program  have  been  deleted.  The  Agency  believes 
that  it  is  necessary  to  remove  these  requirements  so  that  the 
industry  may  devote  existing  resources  to  the  development  of  the 
nutritional  information  needed  to  comply  with  the  new  nutrition 
labeling  regulations. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-4- 


Policy  Memo  070C 


Labeling  claims  concerning  a product's  fat  or  lean  content  can 
be  informative  and  useful  to  consumers  in  making  food  choices. 
Processors  producing  products  with  reduced  amounts  of  fat  or 
using  leaner  meat  or  poultry  ingredients  should  be  able  to  label 
their  products  to  indicate  this  characteristic.  A claim  alone 
without  some  explanation  of  its  meaning  may  be  misleading  and, 
in  most  cases,  does  not  provide  the  information  necessary  to 
make  a value  judgment.  The  explanation  accompanying  most  claims 
must  be  designed  to  enable  the  consumer  to  make  a comparison. 

In  some  cases,  a disclosure  of  only  the  fat  or  lean  content  will 
provide  the  necessary  information. 

Definitions  are  being  established  for  ”lean”  and  "extra  lean” 
(except  for  ground  beef  and  hamburger)  as  well  as  "low  fat” 
since  they  are  absolute  terms  which  have  taken  on  increasing 
importance  to  the  consumer  in  recent  years.  "Lean”  and  "low 
fat”  are  comparable  in  meaning  and  are  given  the  same 
definition.  "Extra  lean”  is  given  a more  strict  definition 
because  consumers  would  expect  a product  so  labeled  to  have 
less  fat  than  a product  labeled  "lean”  or  "low  fat.” 

Because  of  the  history  of  successful  State  and  local  regulation 
of  the  meaning  of  "lean”  and  "extra  lean”  ground  beef  and 
hamburger,  the  absolute  definitions  established  are  not 
considered  necessary.  The  State  and  local  requirements  do  vary, 
but  by  stating  the  fat  and  lean  content  of  the  product,  such 
labeling  will  assure  that  consumers  do  not  mistakenly  believe 
that  "lean  ground  beef”  contains  no  more  than  10  percent  fat. 

The  policy  allowing  only  a reduction  to  25  percent  fat  (a 
17  percent  reduction)  for  products  that  may  contain  no  more 
than  30  percent  fat  has  been  withdrawn.  It  was  recognized  that 
this  was  an  anomaly  and  it  is  preferable  to  be  consistent  with 
other  policies  both  within  this  Agency  and  the  Food  and  Drug 
Administration  that  require  a 25  percent  reduction  in  some 
component  before  a claim  can  be  made. 

The  longstanding  policy  of  allowing  the  use  of  fat  and  lean 
claims  if  stated  in  the  possessive  and  accompanied  by  a 
guarantee  statement  has  been  withdrawn.  The  widespread 
interest  in  fat  and  its  relation  to  diet  demands  that  quanti- 
tative information  be  available  to  the  consumer.  Furthermore, 
the  policy  had  only  limited  application,  and  it  is  important  to 
have  a consistent  approach  for  all  products  in  order  to  avoid 
confusion  and  promote  consumer  understanding. 

The  comparisons  to  leading  brands,  a leading  brand,  or  the 
company's  regular  product  are  not  being  permitted  in  the 
interest  of  eliminating  comparisons  that  have  limited  value. 

In  some  cases,  the  leading  brand  or  regular  product  was  not 
marketed  in  the  same  areas  as  the  "leaner”  or  "lower  fat” 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-5- 


Policy  Memo  070C 


product  and  these  comparisons  were  of  limited  value  to 
consumers.  Also,  the  leading  brand  or  regular  product  compari- 
sons provide  information  which  often  is  not  representative  of 
most  products  in  the  marketplace. 

The  term  "Lean,"  when  used  by  industry  to  describe  red  meat 
should  not  be  confused  with  other  uses  outlined  in  this  policy 
memo.  We  have  recognized  that  this  usage  of  lean  is  very  common 
among  industry  and  is  instrumental  as  both  an  inhouse  means  of 
identifying  product  and  as  a way  to  describe  product  shipped  to 
other  plants  to  be  further  processed  into  a formulated  product. 
Indicating  fat  and  lean  by  use  of  a ratio  (e.g.,  50/50)  is  also 
a practice  which  has  been  used  by  industry  for  years.  We  have 
always  regarded  this  as  an  estimate  of  the  amount  of  lean 
material,  and  have  never  imposed  the  requirements  of  supportive 
data  or  quality  control. 

Percent  labeling  of  an  ingredient  or  component  will  no  longer 
require  implementation  of  a quality  control  program  to  assure 
ongoing  accuracy  of  the  label  information.  However,  addition 
of  a qualifier  showing  that  the  product  is  to  be  used  for 
further  processing  should  satisfy  industry's  need  for  the  term, 
while  distinguishing  it  from  retail  product  marketed  as  "Lean." 


^ " jiv  a^  - anu«  f tt  ^nsr  t 


-iL\<‘%'t!<r*.^  Ttti^«r!.n  %'it'l^t?r.»£^.  i-  ^ ,—T  n fc-s-watn?  * >□ 

5n  . .3t0i!t  «i itr  I .„lte..vcviq  rnoa^ 

• ::  t.-.-  . •;;  'Jl‘  49.-3lt^£  . -MUt  ittj^irfvi- 

:|lil[g:l|b  V»-  ii.Tic*.t^  ihiti  k£ 

^^4mm  tm^ lirfl^iCDei4?  !^«utect  ^ alft 

^ .;ttiutr*oics»«^  :fcfn  hiuo4% 

III  d«iei1  drw  * , 

lit  ^ gftgito»Eaicadnif><fe# 

* cci  :^uhcam  ^ bn£  «:i»ac>c£23it 

pr*^ 'la^'  &choB  ±L9:»Btf«iiTeD X.  g <ce|g±:  liaggaDO'^q  s<i  o^- 3:^*3 Alq  'soii^o 

08X/6  si  <oa\oe  ,.p.a>  oi:ts^  b to  ««jl;  yd  am^l  <>.r^  pnx:>«-oibttI 
Def  '.  AV^iL  StV  • dUbdii  smtiPdaiq  * 

<* . c l«i£di>  %m  vJTr:  JCfVB  inli  "to  tc|s%  1 nik^fia?'  ^ ^«l/'i:J4rt£^p4ri  fiY<^l0 

li^<wrt,j  »co  t .*!  Bd&b 

fat"  '1  ^ ‘^  •r4r4<  ►ranU.c  atvt  Ar^  |pi.*cr.  ^ . 

^tii!t±M  Jw«^6c;^©tia  iaoe  ®oV  DrS>  4cf/ji' 

<rlNMBrip<3X(|^  JUn^nob  ^4/  { ^trp  'a  ^ Mlup&i 

iMi  t <\  *:prr&voii  l^noil>*lrJbar  ^ Xsdisi"  » 4t^ai4#<jrgi^E  pnio^o 


E*i  itj *‘*2cdDi 4>iaiodai<pw^bi>si»oicr;t^^ 

of  i}fimom^  Tztc  b^e^ftacar*  Jatid^e-xq  Xi*4i('5  mttx^  ddui|rttialEEtfj  teib  ©llifw 
*!ami:m- .Ui«  ;/>|PolU^  ilftilw/uticme  * afeJO>l  isbfed  *4iC4  "*-  » ,rf^  ^ 
coniidet«d  ne  strst^e  44«d  eoal  i»^.viLry> 

\ 

r4  Ej  » 

■ 


than  :a  p^c^:\t  tnZ  ^.'*s  !>#«jr  cUdr^wn.  - i »/aa  rac4^  t *et 

Uvif^  ii,TfS  «n  ancmly  caul  It  is  praler^Uilr!  tc  loe  cono^i  ^ viih 
othrtr  pol:cieu  /botfc  vlUiAu  lx  K^e  :•/  atid  th«  roc^i  Jhrufj 
Adji;.Atatarat:lor  .'  4t  rmrit.ro  » -pi?  t reduction  iciH» 
c03^pon«^nt  nafxira  « ;:€a  b^^ssadf 

% . ■'’*  .-  i .’,  . ■ : *i  • - '■'  ■" 

tne  ItJriaat^nUifV';  l^iioy  Ot  *U>tt  HM  ^ 

clai^za  it  itit«r!  in  tJim  .,tVl  # 

gddrafirtaii  »tat«»onl:  hmm  bMa  i#jlthdr  rwn.  Tt* 

Interact 'in  Cin  nnd  if:  rilatiljlli ^lipiC  ^ . 

ta?uv£  :n<fl|i|Witli '•  J:>^  < Nl  lOlliPli  f^i*tJ:<T‘')'.  ' 

the  pol:*?y  nkd  oDiy  iliR  ippjUipitl^  ai  1 *J|  co 


ict  bsau  dd  od  ai  iouboiq  *:44  dsflt  prtl worts  •ia  k\llmup  g to 


I 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


To: 


Branch  Chiefs, 


From: 


yv\jU/0 


isn^ancr  l.  Clemons,  Director 
Food  Labeling  Division 
Regulatory  Programs 


Policy  Memo  071B 


Subject: 

Lite  and  Similar  Terms 


ISSUE:  What  are  the  guidelines  for  the  review  and  approval  of 

labeling  terms  such  as  "Lite,”  "Light,”  "Lightly,”  and  similar 
terms? 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  07 lA.  Terms  such 

as  "Lite,”  "Light,”  "Lightly”  may  be  used  on  the  labels  of  meat 
and  poultry  products.  Such  terms  generally  imply  that  a product 
has  significantly  fewer  calories  than  expected  in  a similar 
product  but  often  are  used  to  relate  that  a product  has  signifi- 
cantly less  fat,  salt,  sodium,  breading  and/or  other  components 
than  a similar  product.  A significant  reduction  is  considered 
to  be  at  least  25  percent.  In  the  case  of  a salt  reduction,  the 
sodium  content  must  also  be  reduced  by  at  least  25  percent  (see 
Policy  Memo  049D) . 

If  used,  the  terms  generally  must  be  explained  either  adjacent 
to  the  term  or  referenced  by  means  of  an  asterisk  and  placed 
elsewhere  on  the  principal  display  panel  or  on  the  information 
panel.  The  explanation  must  provide  to  the  purchaser  quanti- 
tative information  about  the  amount  of  calories,  fat,  salt, 
sodium  and/or  other  components  in  the  product  and  include  a 
quantitative  comparison  to  (1)  the  amounts  permitted  by  an 
applicable  standard  if  the  amount  identified  by  the  standard 
is  representative  of  the  majority  of  the  products  in  the 
marketplace,  e.g.,  a comparison  to  the  fat  content  of  the  pork 
sausage  standard  would  not  be  permitted  because  market-basket 
surveys  have  shown  that  the  average  fat  content  of  pork  sausage 
is  approximately  40  percent  and  not  close  to  the  50  percent 
fat  allowed  by  the  standard,  (2)  the  amounts  found  in  a market- 
basket  survey  of  comparable  products,  or  (3)  the  amounts  in  a 
similar  product  or  class  of  products  as  found  in  recent 
applicable  reference  sources  such  as  the  revised  editions  of 
Composition  of  Foods  — Agriculture  Handbook  No.  8. 


FSIS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630  S.  MHICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-2- 


Policy  Memo  071B 


For  products  that  are  unquestionably  low  in  calories,  fat,  salt, 
breading,  or  sodium,  the  explanation  required  to  accompany  such 
terms  need  only  consist  of  a disclosure  of  the  actual  amount  in 
the  product.  For  this  purpose,  the  amount  of  calories  can  be  no 
more  than  40  calories  per  serving  and  no  more  than  0.4  calories 
per  gram  of  product.  For  fat  and  breading,  the  product  can 
contain  no  more  than  10  percent.  For  salt  and  sodium,  the 
product  can  contain  no  more  than  35  mg  of  sodium  per  100  grams 
of  product. 

Fanciful  names,  brand  names,  and  trademarks  often  include  lite 
terms.  In  the  case  of  frozen  dinners  and  entrees,  the  terms 
are  assumed  to  represent  these  products  as  useful  in  the 
reduction  or  maintenance  of  body  weight.  An  example  is  "Dining 
Lite.”  When  such  terms  are  used  for  this  purpose,  the  products 
must  be  nutritionally  labeled  in  accordance  with  Policy  Memo 
039.  In  other  situations  where  the  terms  are  included  in 
fanciful  names,  brand  names,  and  trademarks  to  convey  the 
leanness  of  a product  or  a substantial  reduction  in  fat,  the 
explanation  for  comparative  expressions  of  fat  content  described 
above  is  required.  Those  products  containing  no  more  than 
10  percent  fat  may  provide  a declaration  of  fat  content  as  the 
explanatory  statement. 

RATIONALE:  These  guidelines  are  issued  to  identify  the  policy 

the  meat  and  poultry  industry  may  use  for  the  labeling  of  "Lite” 
and  similar  terms  during  the  period  between  the  promulgation  of 
the  nutrition  labeling  regulations  (January  6,  1993)  and  its 
implementation  date  (July  6,  1994) . The  guidelines  essentially 
reflect  the  policy  that  has  been  applied  to  "Lite”  and  similar 
terminology  for  a number  of  years,  with  the  exception  that  the 
requirements  for  data  submission  at  the  time  of  label  approval 
and  the  need  for  a Nutrition  Labelina  Verification  procedure  or 
Partial  Quality  Control  oroaram  have  been  deleted.  The  Agency 
believes  that  it  is  necessary  to  remove  these  requirements  so 
that  the  industry  may  devote  existing  resources  to  the  develop- 
ment of  the  nutritional  information  needed  to  comply  with  the 
new  nutrition  labeling  regulations. 

Labeling  claims  that  include  terms  such  as  "Lite,”  "Light,” 
"Lightly,”  and  similar  terms  which  imply  that  a product  has 
reduced  levels  of  various  components  can  be  informative  and 
useful  to  consumers  in  making  food  choices.  Processors  making 
products  with  reduced  amounts  of  various  components  should  be 
able  to  indicate  this  characteristic  on  labeling.  A claim  alone 
without  some  explanation  of  its  meaning  may  be  misleading  and 
certainly  does  not  provide  the  information  necessary  for 
consumers  to  make  informed  judgments.  The  explanation  accom- 
panying most  claims  must  be  designed  to  enable  the  consumer 
to  make  a comparison.  In  some  cases  where  a product  is 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-3- 


Policy  Memo  071B 


unquestionably  low  in  various  components,  a disclosure  of  only 
the  absolute  amount  will  provide  the  necessary  information. 

The  policy  of  allowing  a reduction  to  only  25  percent  fat  (a 
17  percent  reduction)  for  products  that  may  contain  no  more  than 
30  percent  fat  is  being  withdrawn.  It  is  recognized  that  this 
was  an  anomaly  and  it  is  preferable  to  be  consistent  with  other 
policies  both  within  this  Agency  and  the  Food  and  Drug  Adminis- 
tration that  require  a 25  percent  reduction  in  some  components 
before  a claim  may  be  made. 

The  comparisons  to  leading  brands,  a leading  brand,  or  the 
company's  regular  product  are  no  longer  being  permitted  in 
the  interest  of  eliminating  comparisons  that  have  limited 
value.  In  some  cases,  the  leading  brand  or  regular  product 
was  not  marketed  in  the  same  areas  as  the  **lite”  product  and 
these  comparisons  were  of  limited  value  to  consumers.  Also, 
comparisons  to  the  leading  brand  or  regular  product  provide 
information  which  often  is  not  representative  of  most  products 
in  the  marketplace. 


l^oqcraD  ^upituy  Mkii  i/|?nLU 

■ ^ ; r.  ' k f h9^  4 <i 

* ^ f,“  i 


i-f,-  •-•  • =•-  ^ : _.  - "•• 

!to  #Timoioi^ifc  « i«  . ^ , 

a£h^'  -j  tr 

»?#i‘##*iikiTOo^M  ^5 # 3-1  *##•  «6a 

‘ SAj6  Yofi^«ilt3  ^ *•  it* . ..  • 1 4« 

cf  .abi^  -» j 


8ilWi-i«iai -srPT 


«T€  3i^^$iciii!'f^MS^f^as  e/ij 

56&06$t  l6'>5ill*ik^iWl^r4jt:y  WJ^Kr 

e r.  .:>i|fe  i.^^c|.gTrf 

' iir  aJrldv^de^Hbtt »h  %i  «*»  ,r- ' 

03^  ir&f  irpisi^^t©  WWI:a  V^ibMJl 

r^i:?4Sjb6ic!Sr  3^«#«  /t3*  h#3l«  ' r ' 

-n*&  *!»  A 'iprv^w-’w  . *^<2T  Bk  6 Uh>StUXH^-Xd k ■ i-'®' ■ |/IX 

ejq^iUJBtion'^^ot  cc-^^ar*^tiv^  «'^rMa^one  o^  trt  uni  Jr  Bn’*.  M*crit<^ 
AboVc  La  . ITU^fc®  jp^i^<iuc^  acntsi  - - * — 

if'.r.  vi^nt  ftt  »»;,  a 4uclftr^ion 

«pVai#^0«^  6tit-i^^  p 

♦ * - ’44F'JImD^ 

jc*.TXpl(\:  f 5 , '^I4c  i,i  .Axi  t 

X :..'Sz  t ' X t ’t_  '^'  * r.d$  |^ry_’ . y_  'll## ' f *ii 


- 


er io4^  b#t##i#ii. 


4,  I9fxt 


l4#3itklty  i 


.tl»-  - 

##ntlaiiy 
41  * ifliailar 


¥i 


lV»^S0 


iLn*^  * siftl  Li*:  t-3;3r‘*  ite 
tb#*  rsyt^*"l:ii^;v- Iah#Xlr 

# t^Llc'^  tb#  i*e&  <mi|rr.  1 

t^/HinpI^y  tor ui  f 

-a^t#  ^ ^ ri,  \if  'ikWt  Mf  'jll 

v^;4  f^t.Jt  >*  .JMM4^t|M- 

/■9»tn9Y 

>%.’^  It  . Is  ii#^cirary  t#5,r®«{>ve 
\Lki  IvlJ‘i>Ue  trv' iiay  eidijit  j j>^-  |riiwiQ&~rQf; ft' 

:.tiht' tKe  ru-t,  itlon^L  ij\f oi:lN^iRii^ 

incXuric  , fir  ; **y 

« f.-  ^ri  ‘«ey«l®  cwck 

to  carv4*>'«<i-^-%Jb  ■ fo<p.i  hoicu#'.;  1 

ei»OU«tj|’.  #f' :■%•  V.i«‘SUI  t:^ 
c)|Aractf'w‘i.vi i'-  w 

- r/«rf ' #€^  e^t  lt9  4-T  ^ "S  lag  '.* 

ij  *r  JT f ly  c 4e  1 at i;ifijrtM 

-.r^to  iarai'5^^4 • ib#r4£aiit#  ‘ 

»ast  ^ bo 


£>  fUi  i ng. 


l|iw 
01  B 

4lK^xld  a# 

4 c .?-i»  alOM 

l®a4Xiii#  anCxi 


- * 
S 


4k' 


To; 


From: 


Subject: 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


Policy  Memo  078A 


Potassium  Labeling  Guidelines 


ISSUE:  What  guidelines  should  be  followed  in  the  review  and 

approval  of  labeling  which  includes  potassium  information? 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  078, 

1.  The  label  of  any  meat  or  poultry  product  may  bear 
quantitative  information  on  the  amount  of  potassium  in  a serving 
of  the  product.  When  this  information  is  provided,  the  serving 
size  must  appear  on  the  label  and  must  be  within  the  range  of 
serving  sizes  customarily  used  for  that  product.  Potassium 

and  sodium  content  information  may  be  included  without  other 
nutrition  information.  Labels  may  not  bear  nutrition 
information  on  potassium  content  alone. 

2 . Quantitative  information  on  potassium  content  shall  be 
declared  in  terms  of  milligrams  (mg)  per  serving  of  the  product. 
The  potassium  content  shall  be  expressed  as  zero  when  the 
serving  contains  less  than  5 mg,  to  the  nearest  5 mg  increment 
when  the  serving  contains  5 to  140  mg  of  potassium,  and  to  the 
nearest  10  mg  increment  when  the  serving  contains  greater  than 
140  mg  of  potassium. 

3 . Nutrition  labeling  does  not  require  the  inclusion  of 
potassium  content  information.  However,  if  potassium  content 
information  is  included  on  the  nutrition  information  panel  of  a 
meat  or  poultry  product,  the  potassium  content  information  must 
immediately  follow  the  information  on  sodium  content. 

RATIONALE:  These  guidelines  are  issued  to  identify  the  policy 

the  meat  and  poultry  industry  may  use  for  the  labeling  of 
potassium  information  during  the  period  between  the  promulgation 
of  the  nutrition  labeling  regulations  (January  6,  1993)  and 
its  implementation  date  (July  6,  1994).  The  guidelines  essen- 
tially reflect  the  policy  that  has  been  applied  to  potassium 
information  labeling  for  a number  of  years,  with  the  exception 
that  the  recfuirements  for  data  submission  at  the  time  of  label 


FSIS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630-S.  WHICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-2- 


Policy  Memo  078A 


approval  and  the  need  for  a Nutrition  Labeling  Verification 
procedure  or  Partial  Quality  Control  program  have  been  deleted. 
The  agency  believes  that  it  is  necessary  to  remove  these 
requirements  so  that  the  industry  may  devote  existing  resources 
to  the  development  of  the  nutritional  information  needed  to 
comply  with  the  new  nutrition  labeling  regulations. 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


Regulatory  Programs 


Policy  Memo  086A 


Subject:  Nutrition  Labeling 


ISSUE:  What  are  the  guidelines  for  the  approval  of  nutrition 

labeling  on  meat  and  poultry  products? 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  086  dealing 

with  nutrition  labeling.  The  following  guidelines  are  currently 
being  used  in  the  review  and  approval  of  nutrition  label 
information  when  it  is  voluntarily  provided  by  the  processor  or 
when  it  is  required  due  to  the  presence  of  labeling  claims  or 
features  relating  to  calorie  content  and  weight  control  (see 
Policy  Memo  039) . Nutritional  information  may  appear  on  the 
label’s  principal  display  panel  or  information  panel  (see  Policy 
Memo  007  on  uses  of  the  information  panel) . 

Nutrition  information  may  be  presented  in  the  format  and  style 
provided  by  FDA  regulations  prior  to  recently  issued  nutrition 
labeling  regulations  (see  enclosed  example) . The  format 
includes  the  following  information  presented  in  this  order: 
the  size  of  one  serving  presented  in  common  household  measures 
or  recognized  portions  such  as  cups,  ounces,  slices,  pieces, 
etc.;  the  number  of  servings  or  portions  per  container;  the 
number  of  calories  per  serving/portion,  the  number  of  grams 
of  protein,  carbohydrates,  and  fat  per  serving/portion;  and 
the  percent  of  the  U.S.  Recommended  Daily  Allowance  (U.S.  RDA) 
of  protein,  vitamin  A,  vitamin  C,  thiamine,  riboflavin,  niacin, 
calcium,  and  iron  per  serving/portion.  Inclusion  of  the 
B vitamins  (thiamine,  riboflavin,  and  niacin)  in  the  FDA 
nutrition  format  is  optional  for  labeling  meat  and  poultry 
products . 

An  abbreviated  format  is  also  accepted  for  labeling  meat  and 
poultry  products.  This  format  includes  the  number  of  calories 
and  the  number  of  grams  of  protein,  carbohydrate,  and  fat  in  a 
specified  serving  or  portion  of  the  product  and  the  servings  or 
portions  per  container. 


FSIS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630  5.  ^HICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-2- 


Policy  Memo  086A 


Both  nutrition  labeling  formats  may  be  supplemented  with 
information  on  other  nutrients  that  may  be  of  interest  to 
consumers.  Examples  include:  fatty  acid  composition  reported 

in  grams  per  serving/portion,  milligrams  of  cholesterol  reported 
in  5mg  increments  and  sodium  information  reported  according  to 
the  guidelines  in  Policy  Memo  049D.  When  the  FDA  nutrition 
labeling  format  is  used,  information  on  the  percent  of  the  U.S. 
RDA  of  additional  vitamins  and  minerals,  such  as  vitamin  D and 
vitamin  E,  may  be  included.  Other  means  of  presenting  nutrition 
information  will  also  be  considered. 

RATIONALE:  On  January  6,  1993,  the  Food  Safety  and  Inspection 

Service  (FSIS)  and  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA) 
published  final  regulations  setting  forth  requirements  for  the 
mandatory  nutrition  labeling  of  most  foods  under  their  respec- 
tive jurisdictions.  Among  other  things,  these  regulations 
provide  for  the  voluntary  disclosure  of  the  B vitamins 
(thiamine,  riboflavin,  and  niacin)  because  public  health 
concerns  for  deficient  intakes  of  these  vitamins  have  lessened 
over  the  last  20  years.  Thus,  inclusion  of  these  three 
nutrients  in  nutrition  labeling  is  not  considered  necessary  to 
assist  consumers  in  maintaining  healthy  dietary  practices. 

FSIS  has  historically  disseminated  its  nutrition  labeling 
guidelines  for  meat  and  poultry  products  through  the  issuance 
of  various  policy  memoranda  by  its  Food  Labeling  Division 
(FLD) . Policy  Memo  086  entitled  Nutrition  Labeling,  which  is 
the  subject  of  this  revision,  provided  for  the  disclosure  of 
nutrition  information  in  the  format  and  style  described  in  FDA 
regulations  prior  to  the  recent  issuance  of  nutrition  labeling 
regulations  for  required  components.  This  memorandum  also 
permitted  an  abbreviated  labeling  format  for  the  nutrient 
content  of  meat  and  poultry  products  that  included,  calories, 
protein,  carbohydrates,  fat,  and/or  sodium.  This  revision 
continues  this  practice  until  the  effective  date  of  the  afore- 
mentioned final  rule,  which  is  July  6,  1994. 

The  policy  memos  that  relate  in  whole  or  in  part  to  nutrition- 
related  information  will  be  rescinded  or  revised  because  of  this 
final  rule.  Policy  Memo  074A,  dated  November  1986,  Exemptions 
from  NLV  or  PQC,  and  Policy  Memo  085B,  dated  January  1988,  NLV 
Procedures,  will  no  longer  be  in  effect  upon  promulgation  of 
this  final  rule.  Policy  Memo  086,  dated  May  1985,  Nutrition 
Labeling,  Policy  Memo  046,  dated  April  1982,  Percent  Fat  Free 
Label  Declarations,  Policy  Memo  049C,  dated  June  1984,  Sodium 
Labeling  Guidelines,  Policy  Memo  070B,  dated  November  1987,  Fat 
and  Lean  Claims,  Policy  Memo  071A,  dated  March  1986,  Lite  and 
Similar  Terms,  Policy  Memo  078,  dated  November  1984,  Potassium 
Labeling  Guidelines,  and  Policy  Memo  121,  dated  May  1991, 
Labeling  of  Low  Fat  Ground  Beef  and  Low  Fat  Hamburger  Containing 
Added  Ingredients,  will  remain  in  effect  during  the  18-month 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-3- 


Policy  Memo  086A 


period  between  the  date  of  publication  and  the  effective  date 
of  this  final  rule,  except  that  the  provisions  relating  to  data 
requirements  and  requirements  for  an  NLV  procedure  or  Partial 
Quality  Control  Proqram  will  not  be  enforced.  Policy  Memo  007, 
dated  August  1980,  Information  Panel,  and  Policy  Memo  039, 
dated  January  1982,  Caloric  Claims/Weight  Reduction,  will  remain 
in  effect  during  the  interim  period  but  will  be  rescinded  just 
before  or  upon  the  effective  date  of  this  final  rule.  Policy 
Memo  016A,  dated  March  1981,  Combinations  of  Ground  Beef  or 
Hamburger  and  Soy  Products,  Policy  Memo  069,  dated  March  1984, 
Labeling  for  Substitute  Products,  Policy  Memo  019A,  dated 
May  1987,  Negative  Labeling,  and  Policy  Memo  114,  dated 
July  1988,  Point  of  Purchase  Materials,  will  remain  in  effect 
during  the  interim  period  but  will  be  revised  just  before  or 
upon  the  effective  date  of  this  final  rule.  Thus,  companies 
desiring  to  continue  declaring  nutrition-related  information 
on  labels  in  accordance  with  existing  policy  memoranda  may  do 
so  until  the  effective  date,  which  is  July  6,  1994. 

j 

Official  establishments  desiring  to  continue  declaring 
nutrition-related  information  on  labels  in  accordance  with  the 
above  policy  memoranda  may  do  so  until  the  effective  date  of 
the  final  nutrition  labeling  regulation.  At  or  before  that 
time,  all  of  the  memoranda  listed  above  will  be  rescinded  or 
revised  and  any  new  labels  or  other  labeling  would  then  be 
required  to  conform  to  the  provisions  of  the  final  rule.  During 
this  interim  period,  however,  labels  must  conform  either  to 
policies  established  in  the  above-cited  policy  memoranda  or  the 
new  regulations,  but  not  both.  In  other  words,  no  combinations 
may  be  allowed. 


Enclosure 


4k_  A 


m 


¥ 


#ti. 

**  ’ ■ AJ^  ^ .yf?  ?‘  ft  ^ '**  ^ 


■j' 


'V 


a j 1 ^ \41  s 1 ny  a^i 


s ^ " I am  ir i ‘ if i rf i*  v ' 

3 ui?/^  Jfr^^t2jo4^ii6gi3 


— »??«n^:'^r'y5ifSffcn»  4^1ig73Mfte<  ^ ft*ii  JWfSFia^Bfc 

allp•^^t*W^'r*1<i«f^  •/nr'iAiit^^Bsirmb  i 

* |gl!^ ' Dil}^ S?5^?ii  fB  ? litf  ’ ^<ia-  b6d ssy^j^  • Hi 


Y^^ifcj* 

iyuBSi 


^^1^ir?^iKi'i6M'''DAil5B  ^ ^SJ^OwBOX^i  T»^:iXiCblUBR 


,^__^ji^«5p%HoQ  ttsSfe  .'jftJirlflrfl  i 

nr^uiar'cionot  iSor  raiquirt^-  ' . ?pt4.  ThArt  j-n-  *.  T* 

' W^traolDfta 


• o 


‘ J " icu, 

rxpn 


► •:. : i It 


pi^naint^d  an  atbrevi.tt^it  U*.«t3  tr#  * or&at. 
ocbt«r»ti  Of . »€rt»t  . . 'ilt.rv  pro^t*  ~ w>o  ".batr.  JfcV*;. 

protrifK  carbohydrate-,  if  at  or  oodluni  Tf' 

oontitiut^s  t.hio  pract 

iiBXkt korjm>i  tir$m}  v\j':  ^ vMcaWir|J%ily  u/  199^ 

Ihm  p Micy  r 'ha'^  x^i^tc  i^bo^a  fixr  if#;  pa.  * vxlti» 

relAtsO  trTwC»^-  n ^ill  fcWI  ir««cijwAttd  Q.»^/nvl:-  > >ne  of 

tlnal  rxum.  fo  v -H^nio  C'«\4  cjA:*<i  jN^yeiafcer  jatoppt.j 

frcM  atV  or  PQC>  ajiO  FoXi  y ’•Oaif'*  da^d  > r u>^i-  , f.lM^8, 

rrocodur«A.  wi  ?i  > <>%^rr  i/€  ir  r ^ **05’ irmW^jn 

this  ! i r^i » i u L«  c'o  1 ioy  < U^,  Cf^vrKay  « ii J aidtefi  ^ 


iib^linq,  ^ Kano  04&,  dst#d  Apiifil  > " 

J>aclA; /iti.u ji|.  ppl  u*?v  Hc'^c  U4 diattod  i ** 

t#abo  Ung  <r'viid<aii  irtfHti -I*  1 4C  r #»no  : 70S,  ddilht  w 


nj^d  U^pn  . laipd^  > oyih,  d*t«d*||itiR> 


*t*4 

Liixii  rt<?  iiaailfit£^.^'"^‘*|Oi^ 'j 
Vai^il  .:>  m "f^  .^1l#t.f  ei’Ml  W|y-r^ 

j lOcodri^At*,  II  i\  orr«<?t  d*i 


. \F  jy^ 


. .ir'i 


-=i  <S's  f 

va 

,*lg*  5;.^ 

frjj  ■- 

■ % 


Enclosure 


Nutrition  Information  Per  Serving/ Portion 

Serving/ Portion  Size: 

Servings /Portions  Per  Container: 

Calories: 

Protein: 

Carbohydrate : 

Fat: 

Sodium: 


Percentage  of  U.S.  Recommended 
Daily  Allowance  (U.S.  RDA) 


Protein 
Vitamin  A 
Vitamin  C 

Thiamine  (optional) 


Riboflavin  (optional) 
Niacin  (optional) 
Calcium 
Iron 


‘ : , r\'| 


T 


.;  lii': 


W'fM 


t-  ” 


M 


]/r • ;v  'ffm  . 

' :‘;.f  :•. 

' ‘-'^  l.»llty:  ■ ' ' ' ■■^'Mh.l’=“’ 


rl 


^*\4: 


( 


1 


i 


^ , I " ■ ^ ♦ 

^ ^ S' 

. '<r  * ,■  -dV  . • *•  ' 

noJt:hio«l\pni\n»e  noliM^olnX  «oi;:^ii;tiiH 


t 


.,f 


■ 'li^V 

/'.*?•:•.  )'i" 


■:-‘.'r 

in 


.-..  ^ ■ uxlk^o^  i 

V ta:j6-j5vito3hti»D 

' imjjiboZ  ' Ij 


V 


,/j^  ■ • i>'7-  -v'*  ' (7;^ 

bfibnMJscoooH  - 3 - ^ ' . lb  . sps:tndO‘»#4r;  :•■ ’^’  ■ ■*-,» ’^  7 ^ ^ 

(IWJft  ,3.0)^  ©OrtfiwofXA  W ^ 

(lAHoi^qo)  flivftX^ocilH  I 

' (Xi^oi:>qo)^  nioAiH  ‘ 
mniolBO 


'vf:* 


ftO*Xl  B 


y k,  ' j -'.  ..''''{i’t  i . . f .'  ■' 


‘sa 


•'^4  V • 

. •'K  -<  ' 


,r  r < ' 


i , 


.V^>  , . 

■■  -a  ' 


nlaJtrrt 

A rrXaia^iV  ^ ^ K 
0 nJtaL6>i^iV 
(I  aniisreiifr 

.=v  ^,, ,.,  ** 

; f ■ s*>* 

-a>*i 


^ ' ■;  it)f 


.- +„ail'  '1 

r - 1 

"id 

.:  , 

'J  ^ \ 

fi 

l;|3 

. r« 

K-t 

i • 7. 

(tri 

«.■ 

. - «|^  Jl  - 

'.  **’*?  .-“^  ■ .*  f "T  j> 


Jr-  i 


%c 


» f 

' f: 


1 


; ^ r..  t 


,.■-71 


•^’1 

■»  i 


; af 


1;  '!> 


•,-4 


- ^ It 

I 


:r% 


?■  "v  17. 


, ” .'•  ■-T  '.'sva  y,--  Kg-  " ,...,.  ,.  . i . . ..■,  . 

f ^ -V  .4l$vjT.  '1  •^■-  '*^V7t4i  ■’•'  ''^vV  . t.**''  ' 


V ■‘HJi  tX 


p j , ,tS;.  » 


4ii 

» 


U St:  “ ™ X V-.T 

„ K>,  ,77r..  V^'7  •■:  ^7, 


United  States 
iLlJi)  Department  of 
Agriculture 


Food  Safety 
and  Inspection 
Service 


6 JAN  1993 


Regulatory  Programs 


Policy  Memo  121A 


Subject:  Labeling  of  Low  Fat  Ground  Beef  and  Low  Fat 
Hamburger  Containing  Added  Ingredients 


ISSUE:  How  should  low  fat  products  which  substitute  for  ground 

beef  and  hamburger  be  labeled,  and  what  other  requirements  are 
necessary  to  obtain  label  approval  and  use  of  final  labels? 

POLICY:  This  policy  memo  replaces  Policy  Memo  121. 

Low  fat  products  which  combine  hamburger  or  ground  beef  and 
other  nonfat  ingredients  may  be  descriptively  labeled,  e.g., 

**Low  Fat  Ground  Beef  With  a X%  Solution  of  ...”  or  ”Low  Fat 
Hamburger,  Water,  and  Carrageenan  Product.”  A combination 
product  which  is  not  low  fat  is  to  be  labeled  as  Imitation 
Ground  Beef  (or  Hamburger)  or  Beef  Patty  or  Beef  Patty  Mix  in 
accordance  with  9 CFR  Section  317.2(j)(l)  and  Section  319.15(c), 
respectively.  Descriptively  labeled  low  fat  combination 
products  should  comply  with  the  following  guidelines: 

(1)  The  finished  product  may  contain  no  more  than  30  percent 
of  a combination  of  fat  and  added  substances  and  no  more  than 
10  percent  fat. 

(2)  The  product  includes  nutrition  labeling  that  provides,  at 
a minimum,  serving  (portion)  size,  servings  (portions)  per 
container  (if  appropriate),  total  calories,  calories  from  fat, 
protein,  carbohydrates,  total  fat,  saturated  fat,  and  sodium. 

(3)  Words  in  the  descriptive  name  may  be  of  a different  size, 
style,  color,  or  type  but,  in  all  cases,  the  words  must  be 
prominent,  conspicuous,  and  legible.  Moreover,  no  word  in  the 
descriptive  name  should  be  printed  in  letters  that  are  less  than 
one-third  the  size  of  the  largest  letter  used  in  any  other  word 
in  the  descriptive  name.  The  solution  statement,  when  used,  is 
considered  to  be  part  of  the  descriptive  product  name  and  must 
comply  with  descriptive  name  sizing  requirements. 


FSIS  FORM  2630-5B  (3/89) 


REPLACES  FSIS  FORM  2630  S.  MHICH  MAY  BE  USED  UNTIL  EXHAUSTED. 


Branch  Chiefs,  FLD 


-2- 


Policy  Memo  121A 


(4)  If  percentage  labeling  is  included  as  part  of  the  product 
name,  e.g.,  "Low  Fat  Ground  Beef  With  a X%  Solution  of  a 

Partial  Quality  Control  (PQC)  program  for  the  addition  of 
solutions  must  be  approved  before  the  label  can  be  used. 

RATIONALE:  These  guidelines  are  issued  to  identify  the  policy 

the  meat  and  poultry  industry  may  use  for  the  labeling  of  low 
fat  ground  beef  products  containing  added  ingredients  during 
the  period  between  the  promulgation  of  the  nutrition  labeling 
regulations  (January  6,  1993)  and  its  implementation  date 
(July  6,  1994) . The  guidelines  essentially  reflect  the  policy 
that  has  been  applied  to  the  labeling  of  low  fat  ground  beef 
products  containing  added  ingredients  for  a number  of  years, 
with  the  exception  that  the  requirements  for  data  submission  at 
the  time  of  label  approval  and  the  need  for  a Nutrition  Labeling 
Verification  procedure  have  been  deleted.  The  Agency  believes 
that  it  is  necessary  to  remove  these  requirements  so  that  the 
industry  may  devote  existing  resources  to  the  development  of  the 
nutritional  information  needed  to  comply  with  the  new  nutrition 
labeling  regulations. 

This  policy  allows  flexibility  in  developing  and  marketing 
low  fat  products  that  may  be  substituted  for  ground  beef  and 
hamburger  while  maintaining  the  product's  nutritional  quality. 
The  policy  provides  labeling  that  informs  the  public  of  the 
actual  characteristics  of  the  products  and  is  in  keeping  with 
the  Department's  policy  on  descriptive  labeling.  Since  the 
combination  foods  differ  from  regular  hamburger  and  ground  beef 
with  regard  to  moisture  content  and  fat  content,  it  is  important 
that  nutrition  information  be  included  with  labeling  so  that  the 
consumer  can  make  better  comparative  nutritional  judgments. 

This  policy  memo  provides  further  guidance  for  compliance  with 
Section  317.2(b).  The  intent  of  this  policy  is  consistent  with 
Policy  Memo  087A  regarding  word  size  in  labeling  of  product 
names . 

The  need  for  a Partial  Quality  Control  program  is  consistent 
with  the  Department's  policy  regarding  percentage  labeling. 

The  policy  permits  the  use  of  added  nonfat  ingredients  as  fat 
replacement . 


G.P.O.  : 1993-341 -645: 80003/FSIS 


8 CTi^W  - »ll  ^ _•  L..^  J>  . -t.T  «••  -i  V --^Pl'  ?'.'■-  J-**^  V ^'•.  l_**i  . •V^'’  1 *V  .-_  *w,  i^-''jfff'  ■#• 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


3 e.Mf'EP 
2310912 


FIRST  CLASS  MAIL 


37/483MPSLD1594  R1  103-0001 

E3 

US  DEPT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  & NUTRI  INFORMATION  CNTR 
NAT^L  AGRI  LIBRARY,  RM  304 
BELTSVILLE  MD  £0705-3351 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


I - 

FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


LABELING  OF  INGREDIENTS 


I . PURPOSE 


The  purposes  of  this  directive  are  to: 


A.  prescribe  FSIS'  policy  on  ingredient  labeling  when 

FDA- standardized  foods,  FDA-certified  color  additives,  or  protein 
hydrolysates  are  used  as  ingredients  in  meat  and  poultry 
products , 

B.  give  official  establishments  the  opportunity  to  make 
changes  when  designing  new  labels,  and 


C.  serve  as  a guide  for  use  with  applicable  parts  of  the 
MP^  -Regulations  . 


>- 

qc 

f,'' 


o 


! il'i.  - ■' 

c.)  u-’ 
^ a- 


II.  [RESERVED] 

V III  vO  [RESERVED] 

co 

"iV.  REFERENCES 

^ : 

MPI  Regulations,  Parts  317,  318,  319,  and  381 

FDA  Regulations,  21  CFR,  Parts  73,  74,  101,  102,  130,  135,  136, 
iw;  139,  145,  146,  150,  152,  155,  156,  158,  160,  161,  163, 

l^i,  166,  168,  and  169 

V.  DEFINITIONS 


FDA  Food  and  Drug  Administration 

MPI  Meat  and  Poultry  Inspection 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  InspectorsQPI:  RP/PAD 

Plant  Mgt . , T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  Import 
Offices  (IP2) 


VI  . 


POLICY/BACKGROUND 


A.  FSIS  regulates  the  labeling  of  meat  and  poultry  products 
while  FDA  has  responsibility  for  all  other  food  labeling.  When 
FDA-regulated  foods  and  food  ingredients  are  used  as  components 
and  ingredients  in  meat  and  poultry  products,  FSIS  generally 
follows  FDA' s requirements  for  ingredient  labeling  of  those  foods 
and  ingredients. 

B.  On  January  6,  1993,  FDA  published  regulations  amending 
its  ingredient  labeling  requirements  for  standardized  foods, 
color  additives,  and  protein  hydrolysates.  FDA  amended  the 
regulations  in  response  to  the  Nutrition  Labeling  and  Education 
Act  of  1990.  The  amended  regulations  require  the  listing  of  the 
common  or  usual  names  of  all  ingredients  in  standardized  foods 
and  all  FDA-certified  color  additives.  The  regulations  also 
require  the  listing  of  the  common  and  usual  names  of  protein 
hydrolysates  and  the  identity  of  the  source  from  which  the 
protein  was  derived.  FDA's  regulations  will  become  effective 
May  8 , 1994 . 

C.  FSIS'  policy  regarding  the  labeling  of  FDA- standardized 
foods,  FDA-certified  color  additives  and  protein  hydrolysates, 
when  used  as  components  or  ingredients  in  meat  and  poultry 
products,  will  parallel  FDA's  regulatory  changes  as  published  on 
January  6,  1993.  FSIS  will  begin  enforcing  this  policy  on 

July  6,  1994,  which  is  the  effective  date  for  compliance  with  the 
nutrition  labeling  regulations.  Changes  to  the  MPI  Regulations 
resulting  from  this  policy,  (i.e.,  changing  the  common  or  usual 
name  of  hydrolyzed  milk  protein  whenever  it  appears) , will  be 
published  in  the  Federal  Register . 

VII.  LABELING  OF  INGREDIENTS 

A.  When  FDA- standardized  foods,  FDA-certified  color 
additives,  or  protein  hydrolysates  are  used  as  ingredients  in 
meat  and  poultry  products,  they  must  be  labeled  in  accordance 
with  the  following  requirements: 

1.  Ingredients  of  FDA  Regulated  Standardized  Foods. 

When  FDA  standardized  foods  are  used  as  ingredients  in  the 
preparation  of  meat  or  poultry  products,  the  common  or  usual 
names  of  all  ingredients  in  the  FDA  standardized  foods  must  be 
properly  shown.  For  example,  when  cheddar  cheese  is  used  as  an 
ingredient  in  meat  or  poultry  products,  it  would  be  declared  as 
"cheddar  cheese  ( ) , " with  the  blank  space  filled  in  with 

the  common  or  usual  names  of  all  ingredients  of  the  cheddar 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  7237.1 


cheese.  An  alternate  method  would  be  to  incorporate  all 
ingredients  of  a standardized  food  in  their  order  of  predominance 
in  the  ingredients  statement  of  the  finished  product  without 
naming  the  standardized  food. 

2.  Label  Declaration  of  Color  Additives.  A color 
additive  or  the  lake  of  a color  additive  subject  to  FDA 
certification  must  be  declared  by  its  common  or  usual  name  or  the 
abbreviated  name  such  as  "FD&C  Red  No.  40,"  "Red  40,"  "FD&C  Blue 
No.  1 Lake,"  or  "Blue  1 Lake."  Color  additives  not  subject  to 
certification  may  be  declared  as  "Artificial  Color, " "Artificial 
Color  Added,"  or  "Color  Added."  Alternatively,  such  color 

additives  may  be  declared  as  "Colored  with  , " or  " 

color, " with  the  blank  space  filled  in  with  the  name  of  the  color 
additive  listed  in  21  CFR  73,  e.g.,  colored  with  annatto  or 
caramel  color. 

3 . Source  Labeling  and  the  Degree  of  Hydrolysis  of 
Protein  Hydrolysates.  The  common  or  usual  names  of  a protein 
hydrolysate  should  be  specific  to  the  ingredient  and  shall 
include  the  identity  of  the  source  from  which  the  protein  was 
derived.  "Hydrolyzed  casein"  and  "autolyzed  yeast  extract"  are 
examples  of  acceptable  names.  Generic  terms  such  as  "hydrolyzed 
vegetable  protein, " "hydrolyzed  plant  protein, " or  "hydrolyzed 
milk  protein, " are  no  longer  acceptable  designations  for  protein 
hydrolysates.  The  degree  of  hydrolysis  will  determine  the  common 
or  usual  names  of  protein  hydrolysates.  Protein  hydrolysates  are 
designated  as  "hydrolyzed"  or  "lightly  hydrolyzed." 

B.  All  labels  which  are  affected  by  the  above  requirements 
must  be  submitted  to  the  Food  Labeling  Division,  Regulatory 
Programs,  for  review  and  approval.  Manufacturers  are  encouraged 
to  familiarize  themselves  with  the  ingredient  labeling  procedures 
and  may  begin  to  submit  their  new  labels  in  accordance  with  the 
labeling  ingredient  requirement. 

VIII.  FURTHER  GUIDANCE 

If  there  are  questions  concerning  this  directive,  please  contact 
the  Branch  Chief,  Food  Standards  and  Ingredients  Branch,  Product 
Assessment  Division,  Regulatory  Programs,  at  (202)  254-2588. 


Page  3 


i 


• . /.  »,  -•'f  I-  - 

,*  ■ I !•  ^.*.  _.i  • 1 . - : 2 . ..  t‘  T’  ■! 

T , ' ^ Z _-  T.-'  ' ~ ‘ •»*'  ft  ; /■ 


' - ' 1 - 'si^eG  ■£#<±_  J 

: . . B ' . *S  . 

i.  .j  J""  4 - - - . . 

, _'4<1^’'  r..-  . .Ac:  3w*!l3i:  V- 

o>  , I ■'^x  •■  r*^  ‘*  ; . ••;=. I 

•'  't'^1*  ?J  r?i.  3F 

■ 1.:'  >io  “ 

aTfricO*  &b  ="'  V*^  • 

• . : SD&'iin  yrr^ci  =«.:(.7  *::’dw  ”.  ,.;i  :>:' 

: -2  ’.CS'  «’i“:'.  ...  .11  tsJc-i  tVxJit 

• ^ *ie  »-v*-ki  ' ic  Xsorrit  _ 

w>n  j 

ads  boB  gnllOfJeJ  aoxu^C.  Z 

ro  nommoo  : r; : . 3e-3fte';Io^l  ’’•H  at&’Jo'X^ 

i.'i  r'-'d  : o:J  ■■  L'*  - _'*W''j  - ^ 

nrvn?  I ■ ■'•.rbi  j.,:»  : 

.V  i.yi'T>n'. /-*•  *^nxa^Tfcr  ! • r .bevi^A  f 

• <;  oiTsrj>x  .^«9mBn  ^.‘i  . - *t  Jo 

' z , :»(;*. '-•.]•  fcOL-y  “^  . . . o.  i 

;....' Gi-':  : r.  ofc  Si  A r .tear..:?  F - • --'  " aJ*  Avt 

. ._t?TiP  ' .-i;  ‘ .'tf  e.f  b.  ir  'ihVii  .'3C  s * 1 * S.*-.  ' .' f? 8 ; C T*': / 

C-Jt^n  -‘  rj  . .-.  Y lO’ibvd  i ■ .r:*'  -.  . *x 

' . JO-  •;  v' ; ' r.  i ‘b^;  ?.r^  *.■  v ^ e.^Tp /.S  .a 

••  j . . ;.  r -:  ■=?'.:  • •'!  " V 1 i:;.'  - J i * ■ eir.  .i".  _riw  - . --.a'  " .’  . *i 

\ -!•.■•:>.«»  t'^ic  1 ^Jr  T>'ifc.i’-  ^ 3'.t  3rxiilTj 

v.-.;uoo’:'  r-': -i  i • * i.'li.'  '•  . ••■  ; . .■:  ..  a'-reTry.-'r^ 

-.iffi /.toic*  '.«.c='.  iiG-ajiu  •'  ; .'.Bxli'nsi 

7 fv'*^  j'  1 ri  1 ra-wt ' ' - T ; • ^ bxs 

- ijjf -.-7  *?iisr:  iriXac 

tonAarui' 

<5f5-5.Y  sv  . 

r \ 'f'uoci  2fc  c^«Y'smM4I9#S  ? r ^ 


O'  < 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS  - NUTRITION 
LABELING  OF  MEAT  AND  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  an  attachment  of  commonly  asked  questions 
and  answers  in  response  to  the  final  rule  titled  "Nutrition 
Labeling  of  Meat  and  Poultry  Products"  which  was  published  in  the 
Federal  Register  on  January  6,  1993.  The  final  rule  is 
effective  on  July  6,  1994.  This  is  the  first  set  of  questions 
and  answers  on  this  subject  and  covers  the  mandatory  and 
voluntary  programs,  exemptions,  nutrients,  and  formats. 

Additional  questions  and  answers  on  serving  sizes,  nutrient 
content  claims,  and  compliance  and  database  issues  will  follow. 


II. 

[RESERVED] 

III. 

[RESERVED] 

IV. 

REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  317.3,  320.1,  381.175,  and  381.4; 

FDA  Regulations,  21  CFR  101; 

FSIS  Directive  7220.1,  Rev.  2,  Amend.  13,  Policy  Memoranda,  dated 
1/27/93;  and 

FSIS  Notice  4-93,  dated  2/9/93 

V.  POLICY 

It  is  FSIS's  policy  to  provide  additional  information  whenever  a 
complex  and/or  significant  regulation  is  published.  The 
nutrition  labeling  regulations  substantially  affect  the  manner  in 
which  most  meat  and  poultry  products  are  labeled.  The  attached 
set  of  questions  and  answers  is  issued  to  assist  manufacturers  of 


DISTRIBUTION:  inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors , OPI:  RP/PAD 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


these  products  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  regulations  and  to 
disseminate  information  to  FSIS  employees  and  other  interested 
parti 


Admihistrator 
Regulatory  Programs 


Attachment 


Page  2 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7260.1 
ATTACHMENT 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS  - NUTRITION  LABELING  OF 
MEAT  AND  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


Page  3 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS  - NUTRITION  LABELING  OF 
MEAT  AND  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

SUBJECT  PAGE  NO . 

I.  MANDATORY  AND  VOLUNTARY  PROGRAMS 5 

II.  EXEMPTIONS 11 

III.  NUTRIENTS 17 

IV.  FORMATS 19 


Page  4 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 


QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS  ON  NUTRITION  LABELING 
OF  MEAT  AND  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


I.  MANDATORY  AND  VOLUNTARY  PROGRAMS 

1.  Question:  Does  the  implementation  date  of  July  6,  1994, 

require  that  all  product  produced  on  and  after  that  date 
comply  with  the  regulations,  or  does  it  require  that  all 
product  in  the  market  on  and  after  that  date  comply? 

Answer:  Neither.  Compliance  with  the  implementation  date 

is  not  defined  in  terms  of  the  time  at  which  product  is 
manufactured  or  shipped  into  commerce.  It  is  defined  as  the 
time  at  which  product  is  labeled  so  that  labels  applied  to 
products  on  and  after  July  6,  1994,  must  conform  to  the 
requirements  of  the  regulations. 

2.  Question:  In  the  case  of  domestic  product,  who  has  the 

responsibility  for  ensuring  that  product  is  properly 
labeled,  e.g.,  the  producing  establishment  whose  number 
appears  on  the  label;  the  company  listed  on  the  address  line 
on  a label;  a firm  which  co-packs  for  a different  firm;  or, 

a firm  which  repacks  product  originated  at  another  company? 

Answer:  The  official,  inspected  establishment  whose  number 

appears  on  the  label  is  responsible  for  properly  labeling 
the  product.  However,  multi-plant  companies  may  maintain 
the  records  supporting  the  labels  at  the  headquarter's 
office  from  which  the  labels  are  often  generated. 

3.  Question:  How  is  imported  product  affected  by  the 

regulations? 

Answer:  Imported  product  is  subject  to  the  identical 

requirements  as  domestic  product. 

4.  Question:  In  the  case  of  imported  product,  is  the  exporter 

or  the  importer  responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  product  is 
properly  labeled? 

Answer:  The  foreign  facilities  permitted  to  export  to  the 

U.S.  and  producing  the  product  are  responsible  for  proper 
labeling  unless  the  importer  reprocesses  or  repackages  the 
product  under  official  inspection,  whereupon  the  importer 
becomes  responsible. 


Page  5 


5.  Question:  How  should  information  be  presented  on  nutrition 

labels  between  January  6,  1993  and  July  6,  1994? 

Answer:  The  nutrition  information  may  be  presented  in 

format  and  content  to  conform  either  to  the  new  regulations 
or  to  existing  policy.  A combination  of  the  two  approaches 
is  not  allowed.  [The  inclusion  of  thiamin,  riboflavin,  and 
niacin  is  now  optional  under  both  approaches.] 

6.  Question:  Do  previously  approved  labels  need  to  be 

resubmitted  for  prior  label  approval  if  only  a nutrition 
panel  is  added  to  the  label  and  it  is  not  part  of  the 
principal  display  panel? 

Answer:  Yes.  See  the  answer  to  the  following  question. 

7.  Question:  What  will  be  the  approval  process  during  the 

interim  period  for  labels  with  nutrition  information? 

Answer:  The  only  change  to  the  process  is  that  the 

requirement  for  submission  of  analytical  data  at  time  of 
label  approval  and  need  for  a Nutrition  Labeling 
Verification  procedure  or  Partial  Quality  Control  program 
are  removed.  Official  establishments  are  encouraged  to 
submit  one  label  application  for  a product  produced  in 
multiple  plants  under  the  same  ownership  when  the  products 
have  identical  formulations,  although  package  sizes  may  vary 
and  each  label  must  bear  the  appropriate  establishment 
number  before  use.  Official  establishments  using  labels  for 
products  of  identical  formulation  that  represent  different 
brand  names  may  also  submit  one  label  application  for 
approval  with  a separate  written  request  listing  each  such 
label,  date  of  previous  approval,  and  approval  number  for 
each.  Further  details  on  procedures  are  contained  in  FSIS 
Notice  4-93  dated  2/9/93. 

8.  Question:  Does  FSIS  have  official  label  approval  services 

for  products  of  foreign  countries  being  exported  to  the  U.S. 
and,  if  not,  where  can  companies  get  their  labels  checked? 

Answer:  All  such  labels  must  be  prior  approved  by  the  Food 

Labeling  Division,  Regulatory  Programs. 

9.  Question:  Is  ground  beef  only  containing  beef  a processed 

product  and  subject  to  mandatory  labeling  or  is  it 
considered  a single- ingredient  beef  cut? 

Answer:  Ground  beef,  which  is  not  seasoned,  is  a single- 

ingredient, raw  product  falling  under  the  voluntary  labeling 
program.  Any  product  which  does  not  require  ingredient 
labeling  and  which  is  not  subjected  to  a processing 
procedure  that  would  significantly  alter  nutrient  content. 


Page  6 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

such  as  thermal  processing,  qualifies  for  the  voluntary- 
labeling  category  even  when  the  product  has  been  subjected 
to  mechanical  treatments  such  as  slicing  and  chopping. 

10.  Question:  The  regulations  state  that  single-ingredient,  raw 

products  under  the  voluntary  program  include  those  that  have 
been  previously  frozen.  Does  this  mean  that  products  sold 
frozen,  as  opposed  to  thawed,  are  under  the  mandatory 
labeling  program? 

Answer:  No.  Both  frozen  and  previously  frozen  products  are 

under  the  voluntary  program.  FSIS  does  not  believe  that 
freezing  is  a processing  procedure  that  would  significantly 
alter  nutrient  content. 

11.  Question:  Under  the  guidelines  for  the  voluntary  program, 

the  regulations  refer  to  a retailer  providing  information  on 
labels  of  single- ingredient , raw  products  without  referring 
to  a manufacturer.  Does  this  mean  that  FSIS  makes  a 
distinction  between  these  products  when  packed  and  labeled 
at  official  establishments  and  at  the  retail  level? 

Answer:  No.  The  term  "retailer"  as  used  in  this  context 

includes  a manufacturer.  FSIS  makes  no  distinction  between 
these  products  when  packed  and  labeled  at  official 
establishments,  as  is  typical  of  poultry  products,  and  those 
packed  and  labeled  at  retail,  as  generally  occurs  with  most 
meat  products.  The  site  where  the  product  is  packed  and 
labeled  has  no  relevance  to  its  inclusion  in  or  exclusion 
from  the  voluntary  program. 

12.  Question:  Can  a claim  be  made  on  a shipping  container, 

e.g.,  "our  low  fat  chicken  breast,"  without  nutrition 
labeling  the  shipping  container? 

Answer:  Yes.  However,  the  packaged  product  within  the 

shipping  container  must  be  nutrition  labeled  because  a claim 
is  made  about  the  product . 

13.  Question:  If  a nutrition  claim  is  made  on  a product 

destined  for  food  service,  e.g.,  a case  of  8-piece  hams,  can 
the  nutritional  information  be  printed  on  an  informational 
insert  for  placement  in  the  case  with  the  product? 

Answer:  Yes.  The  insert  is  considered  to  be  labeling  and 

is  an  appropriate  vehicle  for  transmitting  the  nutrition 
information  for  products  destined  for  food  service. 


Page  7 


14.  Question:  Would  you  label  a cured  ham  that  comes  with  a 

glaze  package  with  one  or  two  labels? 

Answer:  Either  is  acceptable.  The  entire  packaged  product 

is  an  assortment  of  foods  presented  to  be  consumed  together, 
and  the  nutrient  content  may  be  expressed  for  each 
individual  product  or  for  the  entire  package  contents.  If 
nutrient  profiles  are  given  for  each  product  on  the  outer 
container  of  the  entire  packaged  product,  they  may  be 
presented  in  two  columns  in  the  same  "Nutrition  Facts" 
display.  The  profile  for  the  combination  of  ham  plus  glaze 
could  be  given  additionally  in  a separate  "Nutrition  Facts" 
display  or  as  the  sole  display  on  the  outer  container.  The 
reference  amount  customarily  consumed  (RACC)  for  the 
combination  is  the  sum  of  the  RACCs  for  the  ham  (85  g)  and 
the  glaze  (amount  to  make  1/4  cup  if  not  prepared  for  use) . 

15.  Question:  If  a package  contains  a single - ingredient , raw 

product,  e.g.,  a turkey  breast,  as  well  as  a gravy  packet, 
is  the  product  under  the  mandatory  program  and  how  should  it 
be  labeled? 

Answer:  The  product  represents  two  separately  packaged 

foods  that  are  packaged  and  presented  to  be  consumed 
together  and,  as  such,  is  under  the  mandatory  program.  As 
with  the  preceding  ham  and  glaze  example,  the  manufacturer 
has  the  option  to  label  each  food  individually  or  the  entire 
contents  of  the  package.  If  the  raw  turkey  breast  is 
labeled  individually,  it  would  be  labeled  "as  packaged, " 
i.e.,  raw,  in  this  case,  and  may  also  be  labeled  "as 
consumed,"  i.e.,  cooked.  Also,  the  nutrient  profile  for  the 
gravy  mix  must  be  given  for  the  dry  mix  and  may  be  shown 
optionally  on  an  "as  prepared,"  i.e.,  reconstituted,  basis. 
If  the  manufacturer  chooses  to  label  the  combination  in  a 
"Nutrition  Facts"  panel  on  the  outer  container  of  the  entire 
package,  one  column  would  be  used  to  show  a single  set  of 
values  for  the  raw  breast  and  dry  gravy  mix,  and  a second 
column  could  be  used  to  show  a single  set  of  values  for  the 
cooked  breast  with  prepared  gravy. 

16.  Question:  What  are  the  definitions  of  "as  packaged,"  "as 

consumed,"  and  "as  prepared"? 

Answer:  "As  packaged"  refers  to  the  state  of  the  product  as 

it  is  marketed  for  purchase.  "As  consumed"  and  "as 
prepared"  are  synonymous  terms,  but  FSIS  applies  "as 
consumed"  to  raw  meat  and  poultry  products  (i.e.,  those  that 
are  purchased  ready- to-cook)  after  they  have  been  cooked. 
FSIS  uses  "as  prepared"  to  describe  foods  sold  fully  cooked 
or  that  require  only  minimal  preparation  (i.e.,  those  that 
are  ready-to-eat  or  heat-and-serve)  after  they  have  been 


Page  8 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

prepared  for  consumption,  e.g.,  condensed  soup  or  dry  gravy 
mix  that  has  been  reconstituted. 

17.  Question:  Can  manufacturers  label  packages  of  whole  turkeys 

without  including  the  neck  and  giblets  in  the  nutrition 
profile  when  the  products  are  basted  and  fall  under  the 
mandatory  program? 

Answer:  Yes.  FSIS  believes  consumers  frequently  do  not 

consume  these  items  or  eat  them  as  part  of  the  whole  bird. 
Because  the  neck  and  giblets  are  tissues  in  the  package,  a 
footnote  should  be  used  to  indicate  that  values  exclude  neck 
and  giblets  when  this  is  the  case. 

18.  Question:  If  a recipe  is  placed  on  the  label  of  a product, 

does  the  nutritional  profile  of  the  recipe  have  to  be 
included  on  the  label? 

Answer:  No.  Such  information  would  not  be  included  in  the 

nutrition  panel  except  when  a product  is  commonly  combined 
with  other  ingredients  before  eating,  such  as  dry  soup  mix 
prepared  with  milk. 

19.  Question:  Are  labels  for  game  meat  slaughtered  and 

processed  under  voluntary  inspection  and  receiving  either 
the  Federal  Triangle  Brand  or  an  official  State  Meat 
Inspection  Program  brand  subject  to  FSIS  or  FDA  requirements 
for  nutrition  labeling  and  exemptions? 

Answer:  FDA  is  responsible  for  the  regulation  of  all  meats 

not  covered  by  USDA  under  the  Federal  Meat  and  Poultry 
Products  Inspection  Acts  and  has  determined  that  labeling  of 
game  meats  (e.g.,  deer,  bison,  rabbit,  wild  turkey,  or 
ostrich)  is  mandatory.  The  products  are  subject  to  FDA 
requirements  for  nutrition  labeling  and  exemptions 
regardless  of  receiving  treatment  as  described  above. 

20.  Question:  What  are  the  labeling  requirements  for  product 

consisting  of  primarily  game  meat,  but  containing  more  than 
three  percent  raw  meat  from  amenable  species? 

Answer:  The  product  is  subject  to  FSIS  requirements  for  the 

mandatory  labeling  program. 

21.  Question:  When  are  point-of-purchase  (p-o-p)  materials 

considered  labeling? 


Page  9 


Answer:  They  are  labeling  when  they  accompany  the  product 

for  display  at  the  point  of  purchase  or  the  manufacturer 
causes  them  to  be  present  where  the  product  is  sold. 

22.  Question:  Will  p-o-p  materials  that  are  not  considered 

labeling  be  used  in  measuring  significant  participation  in 
the  voluntary  program? 

Answer:  Yes.  Labels  applied  to  products  and  all  p-o-p 

materials  which  meet  the  guidelines  for  the  voluntary 
program  will  be  used  to  measure  participation. 

23.  Question:  What  requirements  of  the  mandatory  labeling 

program  must  be  met  by  manufacturers  of  products  falling 
into  the  voluntary  category  if  they  elect  to  1)  label  the 
package,  2)  use  p-o-p  material,  3)  make  a nutrition  claim  on 
the  label,  or  4)  make  a claim  on  the  p-o-p  material? 

Answer:  All  requirements  for  nutrient  content,  criteria  for 

claims,  and  format  must  be  met  except  as  shown  below. 

1)  Label  the  package . Values  may  be  declared  "as  consumed" 
or  "as  packaged, " number  of  servings  per  container  need  not 
be  included,  an  optional  second  column  may  be  used  to 
present  information  on  separable  lean  of  meat  and  skinless 
poultry  when  the  products  in  the  package  are  meat  cuts  with 
external  cover  fat  or  poultry  cuts  with  skin  on,  and  the 
simplified  format  may  be  used  since  all  food  products  in  the 
voluntary  category  meet  its  use  criteria. 

2)  Use  D-o-p  material.  Values  may  be  declared  "as  consumed" 
or  "as  packaged;"  values  may  be  presented  on  the  basis  of 
the  RACC  since  there  is  no  container;  values  must  be 
declared  for  meat  cuts  with  external  cover  fat  and  skin  on 
poultry  and  may  be  declared  additionally  for  separable  lean 
of  meat  and  poultry  flesh  without  skin;  the  presentation  of 
nutrition  information  as  percent  of  Daily  Values  (DV)  and 
listing  of  Daily  Reference  Values  (DRV)  for  two  calorie 
levels  is  voluntary;  and,  format  requirements,  e.g.,  graphic 
elements  and  column  layouts,  are  eliminated  due  to  limited 
space  in  grocery  stores,  diversity  of  current  formats  for 
these  types  of  materials,  and  lack  of  information  on 
effectiveness  of  any  particular  p-o-p  format  over  others. 

3)  Make  a claim  on  the  label . Same  as  1 but  claims  can  not 
be  made  with  reference  to  an  optional  second  column. 

4)  Make  a claim  on  the  d-o-d  material.  Same  as  2 but  the 
presentation  of  percent  DVs  for  each  nutrient  is  required 
and  claims  can  not  be  made  with  reference  to  optional 
declarations . 

24.  Question:  Can  a food  falling  into  the  voluntary  program 

category  be  labeled  both  "as  consumed"  and  "as  packaged"? 


Page  10 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

Answer:  No.  The  final  rule  specifies  that  values  be 

declared  either  "as  consumed"  or  "as  packaged." 

25.  Question:  When  can  dual  declarations  be  made? 

Answer:  Dual  declarations  can  be  made  to  declare  both  "as 

packaged"  and  "as  consumed"  or  "as  prepared"  values  for 
products  under  the  mandatory  program;  to  declare  both  values 
for  meat  with  cover  fat  and  separable  lean  only  or  poultry 
with  and  without  skin  for  products  under  the  voluntary 
program;  to  declare  both  values  for  the  serving  size  and  100 
grams,  100  milliliters,  or  one  ounce  for  products  under  both 
programs;  to  declare  both  values  for  the  serving  size  and 
one  unit  of  a product  in  a multi-serving  container  where  the 
serving  size  is  more  than  one  unit;  and,  to  list  separate 
declarations  for  Daily  Values  on  foods  purported  to  be  for 
use  both  by  infants  and  children  under  4 years  of  age. 

26.  Question:  Can  values  representing  more  than  one  cooking 

procedure  be  shown  in  optional  columns? 

Answer:  Yes.  The  criteria  are  only  limited  in  that  the 

preparation  and  cooking  instructions  are  clearly  stated. 

II.  EXEMPTIONS 

1.  Question:  If  a product  is  produced  and  sold  in  the  same 

state,  i.e.,  not  shipped  in  interstate  commerce,  is  it 
exempt  from  these  regulations?  If  a product  is  shipped 
directly  to  a state  from  Canada  or  another  foreign  country 
and  sold  only  in  that  state,  does  it  become  exempt? 

Answer:  No  to  both  questions.  The  only  exemptions  from  the 

regulations  are  those  listed  at  9 CFR  § 317.400  and  381.500. 

2.  Question:  Would  it  be  useful  for  labels  of  products  that 

are  exempt  to  carry  a disclaimer  such  as  "not  intended  for 
retail  sale"  or  "for  further  processing"? 

Answer:  It  is  up  to  the  manufacturer  to  determine  its  own 

exemption  status,  and  such  a statement  can  not  be  used  to 
avoid  compliance  with  the  regulations. 

3.  Question:  Under  the  small  business  exemption,  are  the 

companies  or  the  products  exempted? 

Answer:  The  criteria  for  both  are  applied  and  neither  one 

alone  can  be  used  to  qualify  for  an  exemption.  First,  the 


Page  11 


business  must  have  500  or  fewer  employees,  which  is  the 
Small  Business  Administration's  definition.  Second,  the 
product  must  be  produced  in  less  than  the  allowed  amount, 
i.e.,  250,000  or  less  pounds  from  July  1994  to  July  1995; 

175.000  or  less  pounds  from  July  1995  to  July  1996;  and, 

100.000  or  less  pounds  in  each  year  after  July  1996.  If  a 
business  has  500  or  fewer  employees,  it  does  not  have  to 
label  product  produced  at  250,000  or  less  pounds  during  the 
first  year  but  does  have  to  label  product  produced  in 
amounts  over  250,000  pounds.  If  a business  has  over  500 
employees,  it  can  not  be  exempt  based  on  production  and 
would  have  to  label  product  produced  at  250,000  or  less 
pounds  in  the  first  year. 

4.  Question:  Over  what  period  of  time  should  the  calculation 

for  the  amount  of  pounds  produced  be  based? 

Answer:  FSIS  intends  to  amend  the  regulations  to  clarify 

that  the  most  recent  2 -year  average  of  business  activity 
should  be  used. 

5.  Question:  Would  the  time  frame  run  from  July  to  July? 

Answer:  No.  It  would  be  based  on  a company's  usual  yearly 

business  activity  or  fiscal  reporting  periods,  which  might 
differ  among  businesses. 

6.  Question:  How  is  a business  defined? 

Answer:  A business  is  a single-plant  facility  or  multi- 

plant company/firm.  The  qualification  for  a multi -plant 
company  entails  the  total  annual  production  and  total  number 
of  employees  for  all  facilities  under  the  multi-plant 
company,  not  for  each  individual  facility. 

7.  Question:  Is  a firm  exempt  when  it  is  a partially  owned 
subsidiary  of  a multi-plant  firm  and  would  otherwise  qualify 
for  exemption  because  it  has  less  than  500  employees? 

Answer:  If  the  parent  company  has  a controlling  interest  in 

the  firm,  i.e.,  the  parent  concern  owns,  controls,  or  has 
power  to  control  50  percent  or  more  of  its  voting  stock,  the 
firm  is  not  exempt.  Affiliation  through  stock  ownership  is 
described  more  fully  in  13  CFR,  Chapter  1,  Small  Business 
Administration,  at  § 121.401(e). 

8.  Question:  In  determining  the  500  employee  exemption  level, 

are  the  number  of  employees  on  board  during  seasonal  peaks 
counted  or  are  the  number  of  employees  averaged  across 
seasons?  How  are  part-time  employees  counted?  Over  what 
period  of  time  should  the  determination  be  made? 


Page  12 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

Answer:  Following  the  Small  Business  Administration's 

guidelines,  the  number  of  employees,  which  includes 
employees  of  domestic  and  foreign  affiliates,  would  be 
averaged  over  the  preceding  completed  12  calendar  months . 
Part-time  and  temporary  employees  are  counted  as  full-time 
employees  over  the  same  period.  See  13  CFR  at  § 121.404  and 
121.407. 

9.  Question:  Are  contractors  considered  to  be  employees  of  a 

business? 

Answer:  In  certain  circumstances  employees  of  an 

independent  contractor  may  be  considered  to  be  employed  on 
another  basis.  Examples  of  such  circumstances  are  described 
in  13  CFR  § 121.404. 

10.  Question:  Where  firms  have  been  in  business  less  than  2 

years  or  products  have  not  been  produced  for  2 years,  how 
would  the  exemption  be  determined? 

Answer:  FSIS  intends  to  amend  the  regulations  to  allow  such 

firms  to  make  reasonable  estimates  that  the  number  of 
employees  and  pounds  of  products  will  not  exceed  the  allowed 
levels  on  an  annual  basis. 

11.  Question:  If  a business  qualifies  for  an  exemption  but, 

during  the  course  of  future  business  activity,  loses  the 
exemption  status,  how  long  will  it  have  to  come  into 
compliance  with  the  regulations? 

Answer:  The  business  will  have  one  year  in  which  to  comply. 

12.  Question:  Is  a product  defined  as  one  that  is  approved  on  a 

single  label  request  for  the  purpose  of  the  small  business 
exemption? 

Answer:  No.  The  product  is  defined  as  a formulation, 

exclusive  of  flavors  which  do  not  significantly  alter 
nutrient  content,  sold  in  any  size  package  in  commerce. 

13.  Question:  What  are  examples  of  flavors  that  might  meet 

these  conditions? 

Answer:  Examples  are  flavor  extracts,  food  colors,  many 

herbs,  many  spices  and  spice  blends,  and  dehydrated 
condiment -type  vegetables  when  used  at  low  levels.  However, 
not  all  flavors  contain  insignificant  amounts  of  required 
nutrients  when  used  at  low  levels,  e.g.,  paprika,  red 
pepper,  and  chili  powder. 


Page  13 


14.  Question:  During  the  third  year  of  implementation,  if  a new 

product  is  produced  in  an  amount  nearing  100,000  pounds 
within  6 months,  can  the  formulation  be  changed,  such  as  by 
substituting  one  vegetable  for  another,  and  the  second 
formulation  qualify  for  the  exemption? 

Answer:  No.  The  second  formulation  would  be  viewed  as  a 

replacement  or  variation  of  the  first  product  and  would 
reasonably  be  expected  to  be  produced  annually  at  a 200,000 
pound  level  based  on  performance  of  the  initial  product. 

15.  Question:  A company  produces  a ham  product  of  a particular 

formulation  and  part  is  sold  fully  cooked  and  part  is  sold 
uncooked.  Are  these  hams  considered  to  be  the  same  product 
because  the  ingredients  are  identical? 

Answer:  No.  The  manufacturing  process  is  part  of  the 

formulation  and  these  two  products  would  have  significantly 
different  nutrient  profiles  due  to  the  heat  treatment 
applied.  These  are  two  distinct  products. 

16.  Question:  A company  produces  a ham  product  and  part  is 

destined  to  be  sold  at  retail  and  part  sold  by  the  company 
in  gift  packs  which  also  contain  pancake  mix  and  syrup 
produced  by  a different  company.  For  purposes  of  counting 
production  of  the  ham  product  towards  a small  business 
exemption,  would  it  be  considered  as  one  product  and  who  is 
responsible  for  labeling  the  pancake  mix  and  syrup  if  the 
individual  foods  are  labeled  as  opposed  to  the  entire 
contents  of  the  gift  pack? 

Answer:  The  ham  product  is  a single  product  and  the  first 

company  selling  the  gift  pack  is  responsible  for  ensuring 
that  the  gift  pack  is  properly  labeled.  Labeling  of  gift 
packs  is  flexible  in  that  package  inserts  may  be  used. 

17.  Question:  If  a company  qualifies  for  the  small  business 

exemption  based  on  number  of  employees  and  produces  a 
product  sold  at  retail  in  less  than  the  allowed  poundage  and 
to  food  service  in  over  the  allowed  poundage,  is  the  product 
sold  at  retail  exempt? 

Answer:  No.  The  food  service  and  small  business  exemption 

can  not  be  combined. 

18.  Question:  If  a company  qualifies  for  the  small  business 

exemption  based  on  number  of  employees  and  produces  a 
product  for  food  service  at  over  allowed  amounts  but  sells 
part  of  the  product  at  discount  rates  to  its  own  employees, 
must  the  product  sold  to  the  employees  be  labeled? 


Page  14 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

Answer:  Yes.  Because  the  product  is  offered  for  sale  to 

the  employees,  that  part  of  the  product  must  be  labeled. 

19.  Question:  Does  the  small  business  exemption  apply  to 

foreign  firms  exporting  to  the  U.S.  and  on  what  basis  - 
total  production  of  a product  or  only  production  for  the 
export  market? 

Answer:  Exemptions  for  foreign  firms  are  the  same  as  for 

U.S.  firms  and  would  apply  to  total  production.  The 
exemption  size  is  a measure  of  the  firm's  ability  to 
nutrition  label  its  products  without  undue  economic 
hardship.  The  exemption  for  U.S.  firms  also  is  based  on 
total  production  including  export  market. 

20.  Question:  For  product  imported  into  the  U.S.,  does  the 

exporter  or  the  importer  get  the  exemption? 

Answer:  The  exporter  would  get  the  exemption  unless  the 

importer  reprocesses  or  repackages  the  product  under 
official  inspection. 

21.  Question:  What  type  of  records  need  to  be  kept  on  number  of 

employees  and  product  production  to  substantiate  a small 
business  exemption,  and  will  FSIS  be  maintaining  copies  of 
any  records  for  this  exemption? 

Answer:  It  is  up  to  each  company  to  maintain  records 

adequate  to  support  such  an  exemption.  FSIS  will  not 
maintain  copies  of  these  records  but  will  review  company 
records  on  an  ongoing  basis  as  directed  by  Regulatory 
Programs . 

22.  Question:  How  will  the  small  business  exemption  need  to  be 

substantiated  by  foreign  manufacturers?  Will  some  sort  of 
certification  or  substantiation  be  required  of  a 
manufacturer  qualifying  for  exemption  when  product  comes 
into  a port  of  entry  without  the  required  labeling  so  that 
the  product  will  not  be  detained? 

Answer:  Qualification  for  a small  business  exemption  is  a 

self  certification  and  the  product  will  not  be  detained  for 
lack  of  nutrition  labeling.  Some  foreign  countries  have 
expressed  interest  in  certifying  the  small  business  status 
of  qualifying  firms  and  FSIS  will  check  exemption  status  of 
foreign  firms  as  directed  by  FSIS  headquarters. 

23.  Question:  What  will  be  required  of  deli  products,  i.e., 

products  sold  from  the  deli  case  and  intended  to  be  sliced? 


Page  15 


Answer;  These  products  are  exempt  unless  they  bear  a 
nutrition  claim  or  nutrition  information  because  they  are 
portioned  at  the  store  to  the  customers'  specifications  and 
rewrapped . 

24.  Question:  If  the  store  does  not  slice  the  products  but 

sells  them  whole  or  in  chunks,  are  they  still  exempt? 

Answer:  If  manufacturers  have  reasonable  expectations  that 

their  products  will  be  sold  under  conditions  where  they  are 
portioned  and  packaged  to  the  customers'  specifications,  as 
in  a retail  store  deli,  they  are  exempt.  Identical  bulk 
packaged  products  sold  through  wholesale  clubs  and  like 
outlets,  where  they  are  not  generally  portioned  and  packaged 
to  customer  specifications,  are  not  exempt. 

25.  Question:  Are  items  exempt  that  are  tray-packed  at  a plant 

versus  a supermarket  and  intended  to  be  sold  in  the  deli 
department  as  ready- to -consume? 

Answer : No . 

26.  Question:  Does  the  definition  of  processing  as  it  pertains 

to  retail  outlets  include  repackaging  of  food  sold  in  bulk 
packages  into  retail  size  packages  at  the  store  level? 

Answer:  Yes.  For  example,  a 2 5 -pound  package  of  hot  dogs 

that  will  be  repackaged  at  retail  would  not  have  to  be 
nutrition  labeled  unless  a nutrition  claim  was  made  or 
nutrition  information  was  provided.  However,  if  the  bulk 
package  will  be  sold  directly  to  consumers,  such  as  through 
a wholesale  club,  it  would  have  to  be  nutrition  labeled. 

27.  Question:  If  a product  with  a nutrition  claim  in  the  brand 

name  is  sold  in  chubs  intended  for  slicing  in  a supermarket 
deli  where  it  will  be  displayed  or  promoted  by  brand  name, 
how  can  the  nutrition  information  be  conveyed  by  the 
retailer? 

• 

Answer:  The  manufacturer  would  be  required  to  nutrition 

label  the  chubs.  Since  the  retailer  would  also  be  making  a 
nutrition  claim  by  virtue  of  using  the  brand  name,  he  needs 
to  provide  either  labels  or  labeling  consistent  with  the 
requirements  of  the  regulations  to  supply  the  nutrition 
information  to  customers.  While  not  required  to  do  so,  the 
manufacturer  could  provide  these  as  a courtesy  to  the 
retailer . 

28.  Question:  Does  FSIS  recognize  FDA's  "less  than  12  square 

inch"  package  size  exemption  policy  or  only  the  "40  or  less 
square  inch"  policy? 


Page  16 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

Answer:  FSIS  exempts  products  weighing  less  than  1/2  ounce 

net  weight  without  qualification.  FSIS  does  not  exempt 
products  whose  labels  have  40  or  less  square  inches  of 
available  space  but  allows  use  of  a modified  format  to 
present  the  information.  FSIS  did  not  recognize  the  "less 
than  12  square  inch"  policy  that  allows  a label  to  carry  an 
address  or  telephone  number  consumers  can  use  to  obtain 
nutrition  information  not  required  to  appear  on  the  label. 
However,  FSIS  is  considering  amending  its  regulations  to 
make  this  allowance.  This  option  could  not  be  used  to  meet 
the  requirements  of  the  regulations  until  it  became  final. 

III.  NUTRIENTS 

1.  Question:  What  is  the  order  of  appearance  of  the  optional 

vitamins  and  minerals? 

Answer:  Optional  vitamins  and  minerals  are  listed  after  the 

four  underlined  mandatory  nutrients  in  the  following  order: 
Vitamin  A.  vitamin  C.  calcium,  iron,  vitamin  D,  vitamin  E, 
thiamin,  riboflavin,  niacin,  vitamin  Bg,  folate,  vitamin  B12/ 
biotin,  pantothenic  acid,  phosphorus,  iodine,  magnesium, 
zinc,  and  copper. 

2.  Question:  Must  International  Units  (lU)  be  used  in 

calculating  a Reference  Daily  Intake  (RDI)  for  vitamin  A and 
how  are  Retinol  Equivalents  (RE)  converted  to  lU? 

Answer:  The  RDI  for  vitamin  A for  foods  for  adults  and 

children  over  4 years  of  age  is  set  at  5,000  lU  and  assumes 
2,500  lU  as  retinol  and  2,500  lU  as  jS-carotene.  The  5,000 
lU  allowance  value  is  equivalent  to  1,000  RE.  When 
measuring  the  vitamin  A activity  of  individual  foods,  the 
following  conversions  are  used:  One  lU  is  equivalent  to  0.3 

microgram  (meg)  of  retinol,  0.6  meg  of  /6-carotene,  or  1.2 
meg  of  other  provitamin  A carotenoids;  one  RE  is  equivalent 
to  1 meg  of  retinol,  6 meg  of  /6-carotene,  or  12  meg  of  other 
provitamin  A carotenoids;  and,  one  RE  equals  3.33  lU  of 
retinol  or  10  lU  of  /6-carotene  or  other  carotenoids. 

3.  Question:  What  Daily  Reference  Values  (DRVs)  and  RDIs  are 

established  for  protein  for  the  purpose  of  listing  protein 
as  a percent  of  Daily  Value  (%  DV) ? 

Answer:  The  DRV  for  protein  for  adults  and  children  4 or 

more  years  of  age  is  50  grams.  The  RDIs  for  protein  for 
children  less  than  4 years  of  age,  infants,  pregnant  women, 
and  lactating  women  are  established  at  16  grams,  14  grams, 

60  grams,  and  65  grams,  respectively. 


Page  17 


4.  Question:  Can  protein  be  expressed  as  % DV  on  foods  for 

adults  and  children  over  4 and  how  should  it  be  calculated? 

Answer:  The  % DV  for  protein  must  be  listed  for  these  foods 

when  a claim  is  made  about  protein,  and  it  may  also  be 
presented  voluntarily.  When  protein  is  listed  as  a percent 
of  the  50  gram  DRV  and  expressed  as  % DV,  the  actual  amount 
of  protein  in  grams  per  serving  is  first  corrected  by 
multiplying  the  amount  by  its  amino  acid  score  corrected  for 
protein  digestibility  before  dividing  by  50  grams  and 
converting  to  percent. 

5.  Question:  Will  the  values  for  the  RDIs  for  adults  and 
children  over  4 years  of  age,  which  are  the  same  as  the  U.S. 
RDAs  established  in  1973,  be  changed  in  the  near  future? 

Answer:  Under  the  provisions  of  the  Dietary  Supplement  Act 

of  1992,  FDA  may  propose  after  December  31,  1993  new  values 
for  these  RDIs,  establish  RDIs  for  new  nutrients  for  this 
group,  and  establish  RDIs  for  other  specific  groups  for 
which  label  reference  values  are  not  codified  now.  FSIS  can 
not  speculate  further  on  actions  FDA  may  take  in  this  area. 

6.  Question:  Does  total  carbohydrate  include  dietary  fiber? 

Answer:  Yes.  Total  dietary  fiber  must  also  be  listed 

separately  as  a subcomponent  under  total  carbohydrate. 

7.  Question:  Does  total  fat,  which  is  defined  as  total  lipid 

fatty  acids  expressed  as  triglycerides,  include  cholesterol? 

Answer : No . 

8.  Question:  When  grams  of  saturated,  monounsaturated,  and 

polyunsaturated  fat  are  calculated  for  listing  on  the 
nutrition  panel,  how  is  the  glycerol  component  of  fat  dealt 
with  in  determining  amounts  of  specific  fatty  acids? 

Answer:  Values  are  expressed  as  free  fatty  acids  and  the 

glycerol  portion  is  not  included  in  the  gram  amount  per 
serving.  If  the  fatty  acids  are  measured  as  their  esters, 
the  ester  weight  of  a fatty  acid  is  converted  to  the  fatty 
acid  weight  using  conversion  factors  based  on  the  molecular 
weights  of  the  individual  esters  and  corresponding  free 
fatty  acids. 

9.  Question:  Should  the  sum  of  saturated,  monounsaturated,  and 

polyunsaturated  fatty  acids  equal  the  total  fat  content? 

Answer:  No.  The  sum  of  the  fatty  acids  is  lower  than  the 

weight  of  total  fat  by  the  weight  of  trans  fatty  acids. 


Page  18 


FSIS  Directive  7260;! 

Attachment 

glycerol,  and  other  non- fatty  acid  components  of  structural 
lipids  that  are  not  triglycerides. 

IV.  FORMATS 

1.  Question:  When  can  the  FSIS  simplified  format  be  used? 

Answer:  The  simplified  format,  which  FSIS  formerly  called 

abbreviated,  may  be  used  when  one  or  more  required  nutrient 
other  than  a core  nutrient  (calories,  total  fat,  sodium, 
total  carbohydrate,  or  protein)  is  present  in  an 
insignificant  amount.  The  insignificant  nutrient (s)  may  be 
omitted  from  the  vertical  column  in  the  display  area, 

provided  a statement  "Not  a significant  source  of  . " 

appears  on  the  nutrition  panel  with  the  blank  space 
containing  the  name(s)  of  the  insignificant  nutrient (s). 

2.  Question:  What  are  insignificant  amounts  of  nutrients? 

Answer:  These  are  amounts  that  are  permitted  to  be  shown  as 

zero  on  the  nutrition  panel,  e.g.,  less  than  5 calories, 
except  that  for  total  carbohydrate,  protein,  and  dietary 
fiber,  the  amount  is  less  than  1 gram.  A technical 
amendment  will  be  made  to  indicate  that  an  insignificant 
amount  of  sugars  is  also  less  than  1 gram. 

3.  Question:  If  only  one  core  nutrient  out  of  the  14  required 

nutrients  were  present  in  an  insignificant  amount,  could  a 
simplified  format  be  used  and  how  would  that  core  nutrient 
be  listed? 

Answer:  The  simplified  format  could  not  be  used.  The  core 

nutrient  would  be  listed  in  the  vertical  column  as  zero 
unless  it  were  total  carbohydrate  or  protein  in  an  amount 
between  0.5  gram  up  to  but  not  including  1 gram,  in  which 
case  it  could  be  listed  either  as  1 gram  or  with  a statement 
"Contains  less  than  1 gram"  or  "less  than  1 gram"  next  to 
the  name  of  the  nutrient . 

4.  Question:  If  a product  qualifies  to  use  the  simplified 

format,  but  the  company  wants  to  list  a voluntary  nutrient 
or  make  a claim  about  a required  or  voluntary  nutrient,  can 
it  still  use  the  simplified  format? 

Answer:  Yes.  The  manufacturer  only  needs  to  add  the 

voluntary  nutrient  at  its  appropriate  display  position. 

5.  Question:  Is  the  entire  footnote  used  with  the  standard 

format,  which  lists  DRVs  as  Daily  Values  for  2,000  and  2,500 


Page  19 


calorie  diets  and  the  caloric  conversion  information, 
required  to  be  used  on  the  simplified  format  and  the 
modified  format  for  intermediate  sized  packages  with  40  or 
less  square  inches  of  available  space? 

Answer:  No.  The  footnote  can  be  shortened  to  include  only 

the  statement  "Percent  Daily  Values  are  based  on  a 2,000 
calorie  diet."  If  the  term  Daily  Value  is  not  spelled  out 
in  the  heading  but  abbreviated  as  "DV, " a statement  to  the 
effect  that  "DV"  represents  Daily  Value  is  required. 

6.  Question:  If  a product  qualifies  to  use  the  simplified 

format  but  the  manufacturer  elects  to  list  the  insignificant 
level  nutrient (s)  as  zero  in  the  vertical  column  as  opposed 
to  showing  it  by  name  in  the  statement  at  the  bottom  of  the 
panel,  can  the  footnote  still  be  shortened? 

Answer:  Yes. 

7.  Question:  What  is  the  primary  difference  between  the  FSIS 

simplified  format  and  FDA's  simplified  format  and  why  didn't 
FSIS  elect  to  use  the  FDA  simplified  format? 

Answer:  FDA's  simplified  format  differs  in  that  it  can  only 

be  used  with  foods  for  adults  and  children  over  4 years  when 
the  foods  contain  insignificant  amounts  of  7 or  more  of  13 
required  nutrients  (calories  from  fat  are  excluded) . FSIS 
does  not  use  this  criterion  because  virtually  all  meat  and 
poultry  products,  including  muscle  meats,  would  fail  to  meet 
it  and  be  precluded  from  using  the  format.  Both  simplified 
formats  allow  for  optional  inclusion  of  the  footnote  with 
the  DRVs  for  two  or  more  calorie  levels  and  the  caloric 
conversion  information. 

8.  Question:  The  nutrition  panel  of  a product  that  qualifies 

to  use  FDA's  simplified  format  and  neither  contains  added 
vitamins  or  minerals  nor  declares  voluntary  nutrients  does 
not  have  to  include  non-core  required  nutrients  present  in 
insignificant  amounts  in  the  display  area  or  by  name  in  the 

statement  "Not  a significant  source  of  . " at  the 

bottom  of  the  panel.  Does  FSIS  have  the  same  provision? 

Answer:  No.  When  using  the  FSIS  simplified  format,  non- 

core required  nutrients  must  be  listed  either  in  the  display 
area  or  by  name  in  the  statement . 

9.  Question:  Can  nutrients  be  listed  as  zero  at  the  bottom  of 

the  panel  instead  of  using  the  wording  "not  a significant 
source  of"  in  order  to  save  space? 

Answer : No . 


Page  20 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

10.  Question:  What  is  the  difference  between  FDA's  shortened 

format  and  the  FSIS  simplified  format? 

Answer:  FDA's  shortened  format  allows  for  listing  of  any 

non-core  nutrient  present  in  insignificant  amounts  to  be 
shown  at  the  bottom  of  the  panel  in  the  statement  "Not  a 

significant  source  of  . " regardless  of  the  number  of 

nutrients  present  in  insignificant  levels  and  the  footnote 
with  the  DRVs  and  caloric  conversions  may  not  be  dropped. 
FSIS  allows  the  same  listing  in  its  simplified  format  but 
the  footnote  may  be  dropped. 

11.  Question:  Is  a break  in  the  vertical  alignment  allowed  with 

the  standard  format? 

Answer:  Yes.  One  break  is  always  allowed  wherein  the 

footnote  may  be  placed  to  right  side  of  the  panel;  however, 
there  can  be  no  intervening  information. 

12.  Question:  When  can  tabular  and  linear  (string)  displays  be 

used? 

Answer:  Use  of  both  of  these  displays  is  restricted  to 

products  with  40  or  less  square  inches  of  labeling  space. 

The  tabular  display  may  be  used  only  when  the  package  shape 
and  size  can  not  accommodate  a column  display  on  any  label 
panel.  The  linear  display  may  be  used  only  if  the  tabular 
display  does  not  fit  on  the  label. 

13.  Question:  Can  a tabular  display  be  used  when  the  label  has 

space  for  the  long  format  but  it  will  wrap  around  the 
product  and  might  be  inconvenient  to  read? 

Answer:  On  a case-by-case  basis,  FSIS  will  consider 

allowing  the  tabular  display  for  packages  larger  than  40 
square  inches  that  have  a surface  area  which  precludes  the 
presentation  of  the  full  nutrition  label,. 

14.  Question:  When  will  an  example  of  a linear  display  be 

available? 

Answer:  Examples  of  linear  displays  are  under  review  by  FDA 

and  FSIS  at  this  time,  but  this  review  does  not  preclude  use 
of  a linear  display.  A sample  string  for  a nutrient  with  a 
subcomponent  might  read  as  follows:  13  g Total  Fat  is  20% 

DV*  (5  g of  Sat  Fat  is  25%  DV)  with  the  footnote  following 
the  completed  string  for  all  nutrients.  Since  this  is  a 
modified  format,  the  full  footnote  is  not  required. 


Page  21 


15.  Question:  Are  abbreviations  for  other  than  Daily  Value 

allowed? 

Answer:  Yes.  Seven  abbreviations  are  allowed  on  tabular 

and  linear  displays  as  follows:  Serving  size  - Serv.  size; 

Servings  per  container  - Servings;  Calories  from  fat  - Fat 
cal;  Saturated  fat  - Sat  fat;  Cholesterol  - Cholest;  Total 
carbohydrate  - Total  carb;  Dietary  fiber  - Fiber.  The 
abbreviations  for  the  nutrients,  which  are  those  whose  names 
exceed  10  characters,  may  be  used  in  the  footnote  with  Daily 
Values  for  2,000  and  2,500  calorie  diets. 

16.  Question:  Can  the  product  name  be  place  within  the 

nutrition  panel? 

Answer:  No.  The  name  can  be  placed  just  above  the  box. 

17.  Question:  When  using  a dual  declaration,  such  as  for  a 

condensed  soup  and  its  prepared  form,  can  the  actual 
quantitative  amounts  be  listed  for  the  prepared  form? 

Answer:  Yes.  The  additional  quantitative  amounts  can  be 

given  immediately  adjacent  to  the  required  quantitative 
information  for  the  product  described  in  the  first  column  or 
the  amounts  can  be  given  in  a footnote. 

18.  Question:  When  less  than  0.5  gram  of  dietary  fiber  or 

saturated  fat  is  present  in  a serving  of  a product,  the 
amounts  would  be  shown  as  zero  on  the  label.  However,  when 
the  % DV  is  calculated  based  on  an  actual  unrounded  fiber  or 
saturated  fat  content  of  0.2  grams  per  serving,  the 
calculation  yields  1 percent.  Will  consumers  be  confused  to 
see  a gram  weight  of  zero  in  conjunction  with  1%  DV  for  the 
same  nutrient  and  should  the  % DV  be  expressed  as  zero  in 
these  cases? 

Answer:  The  regulations  do  not  contain  a proviso  that  % DV 

should  be  expressed  as  zero  when  rounding  of  quantitative 
information  results  in  a value  of  zero.  FSIS  is  considering 
amending  the  regulations  to  avoid  this  situation. 

19.  Question:  When  % DVs  for  protein  and  potassium  are  included 

on  the  nutrition  panel  on  foods  for  adults  and  children  over 
4 years,  where  is  the  DRV  information  placed? 

Answer:  Protein  should  be  listed  in  the  footnote  under 

dietary  fiber  with  the  DRV  inserted  on  the  same  line  in  the 
numeric  columns.  The  DRV  for  protein  is  based  on  10  percent 
of  calories  as  protein,  which  equates  to  50  grams  for  a 
2,000  calorie  diet  and  65  grams  (62.5  rounded  up  to  65)  for 
a 2,500  calorie  diet.  Similarly,  potassium  would  be  listed 


Page  22 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

in  the  footnote  under  sodium.  The  DRV  for  potassium  is 
3,500  milligrams  for  both  the  2,000  and  2,500  calorie  diets. 

20.  Question:  The  % DV  column  and  the  footnote  with  DRV  and 

calorie  conversion  information  may  not  be  included  on  foods 
for  children  less  than  4 years  of  age,  except  that  listing 
of  the  % DV  for  protein  is  required  if  the  protein  quality 
meets  certain  minimal  requirements.  The  regulations  do  not 
contain  a provision  for  placement  of  the  % DV  for  protein. 
Should  it  appear  in  the  upper  or  lower  panel? 

Answer:  The  regulations  will  be  amended  to  accommodate  the 

% DV  listing  for  protein. 

21.  Question:  Where  should  the  nutrition  information  be  placed 

on  the  label? 

Answer:  The  nutrition  information  can  appear  on  the 

principle  display  panel  or  on  the  information  panel,  which 
is  the  first  usable  surface,  i.e.,  excluding  those  with 
folded  flaps,  tear  strips,  etc.,  to  the  right  of  the 
principal  display  panel.  On  intermediate  sized  packages 
with  40  or  less  square  inches  of  available  space,  the 

information  may  appear  on  any  label  panel. 

/ 

22.  Question:  What  is  contained  on  the  information  panel  and 

what  are  the  location  requirements,  e.g.,  right  side,  left 
side,  or  in  conjunction  with  the  ingredient  statement  or 
signature  line,  for  the  nutrition  information? 

Answer:  The  information  panel  may  contain  mandatory 

information  including  nutrition  information,  the  ingredients 
statement,  and  the  firm's  name  and  address  and,  on 
cylindrical  cans,  the  inspection  legend  and  number.  Policy 
Memo  007,  Information  Panel,  specifies  that,  when  a surface 
is  larger  than  needed  to  accommodate  the  mandatory 
information,  it  should  be  located  in  one  place  without 
intervening  non-mandatory  information,  e.g.,  UPC  codes, 
recipes,  etc.,  and  on  the  left  side  of  the  surface.  It  may 
be  positioned  near  the  top,  middle,  or  bottom,  but  all 
mandatory  information  must  appear  together.  This  Policy 
Memo  will  be  rescinded  on  July  6,  1994  because  FSIS  received 
numerous  requests  to  remove  these  requirements  to  allow 
flexibility  in  placement  of  the  information.  FSIS  believes 
that  the  mandatory  information  need  only  be  placed  to  read 
in  the  same  direction  and  be  generally  in  the  same  proximity 
anywhere  on  the  usable  surface  area. 


Page  23 


23.  Question:  Can  nutrition  labeling  be  included  on  a multi- 

layer label  or  as  a foldout  or  pamphlet  attached  to  the 
primary  label  for  products  under  the  mandatory  program? 

Answer:  Yes.  However,  the  mandatory  information  must  be 

visible  to  the  consumer. 

24.  Question:  What  is  the  status  of  a product  that  has  always 

used  a label  that  is  too  small  to  accommodate  a nutrition 
label,  i.e.,  a 2"  X 2"  tag  attached  to  a stick  of  dry 
sausage  which  may  weigh  anywhere  from  0.75  to  10  pounds? 

Answer:  Use  of  tag  labels  that  can  not  accommodate  the 

mandatory  information  would  not  be  considered  acceptable  for 
containers  that  have  available  surface  space  to  carry  the 
required  information. 

25.  Question:  What  does  FSIS  consider  to  be  the  surface  area 

available  to  bear  labeling? 

Answer:  The  surface  area  available  to  bear  labeling 

includes  all  the  surface  area  of  the  container  even  if  it  is 
not  traditionally  used,  e.g.,  jar  lids,  bottle  necks,  or  if 
it  is  an  odd  shaped  part  of  a package  because  there  are 
different  opinions  about  what  is  practically  available  or 
usable  space. 

26.  Question:  Would  the  total  wrap  around  a package  of 

frankfurters  be  considered  available  space  for  labeling? 

Answer:  Yes. 

27.  Question:  Does  FSIS  have  provisions  other  than  modified 

displays  and  small  package  exemption  to  allow  for  use  of 
labeling  on  foods  when  lack  of  space  makes  it  impracticable 
to  provide  the  information  on  a label,  e.g.,  on  a very  small 
label  of  a product  weighing  less  than  1/2  ounce  which  has  a 
nutrient  content  claim  in  the  brand  name? 

Answer:  No.  At  this  time,  the  regulations  do  not  contain  a 

provision  for  other  alternative  means  such  as  a telephone 
number  or  address  for  consumers  to  use  to  obtain  the 
nutrition  information  for  the  product.  Until  such  a 
provision  is  made  final,  the  information  would  have  to  be 
provided  by  other  means,  such  as  a tag  affixed  to  the 
product,  the  appropriateness  of  which  would  be  evaluated  at 
label  approval . 

28.  Question:  A company  produces  a variety  pack  consisting  of 

several  single-serve  varieties  packed  together  in  four  or 
six  packs.  These  are  placed  on  corrugated  trays  and  then  a 


Page  24 


FSIS  Directive  7260.1 
Attachment 

clear  shrink  wrap  is  applied  to  the  entire  package. 

Although  the  wrap  is  clear,  there  is  no  way  to  ensure  the 
containers  would  be  orientated  so  the  nutritional  panel 
would  be  visible.  If  the  product  must  be  nutrition  labeled, 
what  information  would  be  required  on  the  label  and  would 
the  information  be  allowed  to  be  placed  on  the  bottom  of  the 
tray  prior  to  assembly  so  that  the  shrink  wrap  could  protect 
the  integrity  of  the  print? 

Answer:  If  the  information  is  obscured  on  the  individual 

units,  the  entire  package  should  be  nutrition  labeled.  The 
information  panels  for  the  units  could  be  reproduced  on  a 
label  and  placed  on  the  bottom  of  the  tray  as  described  in 
the  question  as  long  as  it  is  visible  to  the  consumer  at  the 
point  of  purchase . 

29.  Question:  If  the  nutrition  label  were  to  cover  most  of  the 

surface  of  a meat  or  poultry  product,  such  as  a marinated 
cut,  where  consumers  might  want  to  see  the  actual  meat 
surface,  would  this  be  sufficient  reason  to  use  a modified 
label  or  alternate  placement? 

Answer:  Perhaps.  Such  allowance  could  be  considered  on  a 

case-by-case  basis  at  time  of  label  approval. 

/ 

30.  Question:  Is  use  of  Franklin  Gothic  Heavy  or  Helvetica 

Black  and  Regular  type  style  required? 

Answer:  No.  A single  easy-to-read  type  style  is  required 

of  which  these  are  examples. 

31.  Question:  Is  it  necessary  to  use  a nutrition  display  with  a 

box  shape  on  a round  package? 

Answer:  Yes.  The  nutrition  information  must  be  set  off  in 

a box. 

32.  Question:  Can  selective  highlighting,  e.g.,  colored  bars, 

or  reverse  printing,  be  used? 

Answer:  No.  Allowing  optional  highlighting  schemes  will 

lead  to  less  consistency  among  labels.  The  regulations 
require  that  the  headings,  i.e..  Nutrition  Facts,  Amount  per 
Serving,  and  % Daily  Value*  and  the  names  of  all  required 
nutrients  in  the  upper  panel  that  are  not  indented,  i.e.. 
Calories,  Total  Fat,  Cholesterol,  Sodium,  Total 
Carbohydrate,  and  Protein,  and  their  percentage  amounts 
(%  DV)  be  highlighted  by  bold  or  extra  bold  type  or  other 
highlighting  (but  not  reverse  printing  as  a form  of 


Page  25 


highlighting)  that  distinguishes  them  from  other 
information . 

33.  Question:  Does  "neutral"  background  refer  to  the  background 

color  of  the  package  and  could  you  use  a red  background  with 
black  type? 

Answer:  The  nutrition  information  in  the  box  should 

generally  be  in  dark  or  one  color  type  on  a white  or  neutral 
background/  when  practical.  However,  flexibility  in  type 
color  and  background  is  allowed.  Reverse  printing  can  also 
be  used  although  it  might  be  less  legible.  It  would  not  be 
acceptable  to  use  light  letters  on  a light  background  or 
dark  letters  on  a dark  background  to  the  point  that 
readability  suffers.  If  contrast  is  adequate  and  the  type 
legible,  black  type  on  a red  background  could  be  used. 

34.  Question:  Can  the  print  be  condensed? 

Answer:  Yes;  however,  the  letters  should  not  touch. 


Page  26 


.H. 


I 

L 

i' 

I 


s 


Jr 


United  States  Department  of  Agrlcultiire 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Room  OJ 57-South  Building 

Washirtgton.  D.C. 

20250 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 
POSTAGE  k FEES  PAID 

USDA-FSIS 

Permit  No.  G-  42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Uee.  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


7310.4 
Rev.  2 


12-28-93 


FOREIGN  PARTICLE  CONTAMINATION  OF  MEAT  OR  POULTRY  PRODUCTS 


I . PURPOSE 


The  purpose  of  this  directive  is  to: 


A.  Provide  instructions  for  inspection  personnel  to  follow 

when  an  official  establishment  uses  devices  approved  by  FSIS  to 
detect  foreign  particles  (such  as  metal,  plastic,  rubber,  glass) 
in  meat  and  poultry  products  in  which  an  incident  is  known  to 
have  occurred  and  a portion (s)  of  the  product  is  suspected  of 
being  contaminated.  \ 

B.  Establish  provisions  for  use  of  a PQC  program  for 
foreign  particle  detection. 


II.  CANCELLATION 


FSIS  Directive  7310.4,  Revision  1,  dated  1/26/88 

III.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE 

To  provide  establishments  with  guidelines  on  obtaining  approval 
from  the  regional  office  of  a PQC  program  for  detection  and 
elimination  of  foreign  material,  in  lieu  of  having  to  request  and 
obtain  approval  from  the  regional  office,  on  a case-by-case 
basis,  of  the  salvage  procedures  as  provided  in  PQC  Guideline 
#260.  Also,  changes  have  been  made  throughout  the  directive  to 
clarify  the  Agency's  policy  regarding  foreign  particle 
contamination . 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspect  ion  Offices,  T/A 
Inspectors,  Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA 
ABB,  PRD,  AID 


DPI; 


S&T/PPID 


IV. 


REFERENCES 


MPI  Regulations,  Sections  308.5,  310.18,  318.2(d),  318.4,  381.53, 
381.78(a),  381.91  and  381.145 
FDA  Regulations,  21  CFR  179.21 
OSHA  Standards,  29  CFR  1910.96 
FSIS  PQC  Guideline  #260 
FSIS  PQC  Guideline  #270 
FSIS  Directive  8820.1,  dated  3/1/91 
FSIS  Directive  8830.1,  dated  3/1/91 

V.  ABBREVIATIONS 

The  following  will  appear  in  abbreviated  form  in  this  directive: 
FDA  Food  and  Drug  Administration 

OSHA  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  Administration 

PQC  Partial  Quality  Control 

MPI  Meat  and  Poultry  Inspection 

lie  Inspector  in  Charge 

VI . POLICY 

A.  FSIS  is  responsible  for  assuring  that  meat  and  poultry 
products  produced  under  the  Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act  and  the 
Poultry  Products  Inspection  Act  are  wholesome,  not  adulterated, 
and  properly  marked,  labeled,  and  packaged. 

B.  Managers  of  official  establishments  are  responsible  for 

preventing  product  from  becoming  contaminated  and/or  adulterated. 
Occasionally,  meat  or  poultry  products  accidentally  become 
contaminated.  When  accidental  contamination  occurs,  the 

establishment  should  hold  all  the  product  that  is  suspected  of 
being  contaminated.  Establishment  management  may  (1)  divert  the 
product  to  non-human  food  channels,  (2)  conduct  a salvage 
procedure,  using  detection  equipment  and  following  the  PQC 
program  approved  by  the  regional  office  that  follows  PQC 
Guideline  #270,  or  (3)  on  a case-by-case  basis,  submit  and  obtain 
approval  from  the  regional  office  of  a written  product  salvaging 
procedure  that  follows  PQC  Guideline  #260. 

C.  In  the  case  of  foreign  establishments  producing  product 
destined  for  export  to  the  United  States,  when  an  incidental 
contamination  is  known  to  have  occurred,  the  procedures  specified 
in  Paragraph  VIII  shall  be  used  to  clear  product  of  any  particle 
contamination.  Approval  of  the  procedure  must  be  obtained  from 
the  foreign  country  meat  inspection  authority  prior  to  the 
operation.  Optionally,  a PQC  program  based  on  Guideline  # 270 
may  be  submitted  to  International  Programs  for  approval. 

D.  The  lie  may  permit  use  of  FSIS  approved  equipment  in 
conjunction  with  an  approved  PQC  program  or  a procedure  approved 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  7310.4 
Revision  2 


for  a specific  incident  to  detect  foreign  particles  such  as 
metal,  plastic,  rubber,  or  glass.  The  equipment  used  must  be 
capable  of  detecting  particles  as  small  as  1/32"  (0.8  mm)  for 

sorting  and  salvaging  product.  Any  product  in  which  foreign 
particles  are  visually  or  organoleptically  detected  after  passing 
through  the  detection  equipment  must  be  handled  according  to  MPI 
Regulations,  Sections  301.2(c),  310.18,  314,  318.2(d), 
381.1(b)(4),  381.36,  381.91(b),  381 . 95  and  381 . 145 . 


E.  Product  contaminated  with  other  substances,  such  as 
toxic  chemicals,  cannot  be  salvaged  using  mechanical  detection 
equipment  and  must  be  handled  according  to  the  MPI  Regulations 
cited  in  the  previous  paragraph. 

F.  The  use  of  a PQC  salvage  program  is  only  allowed  for 
occasional  accidental  contamination  incidents.  Frequent  or 
routine  contamination  incidents  indicate  inadequate  process 
control  which  will  cause  the  inspector  to  apply  the  corrective 
and  progressive  enforcement  action  procedures  as  provided  in  FSIS 
Directives  8820.1  and  8830.1.  If  routine  contamination  incidents 
continue,  PQC  programs  will  be  suspended  by  the  inspector  and  the 
procedures  for  a case-by-case  approval  will  be  followed. 

G.  EXCEPTIONS:  Exceptions  to  this  directive  are  as 

follows : 


1.  Routine  in-line  screening  devices  voluntarily 
installed  by  establishment  officials  and  product 

in  which  these  screening  devices  detect  one  or  several 
bits  of  particulate  matter. 

2.  Product  in  which  the  inclusion  of  a missing  component, 
such  as  a bolt  or  blade,  can  be  shown  to  be  still 
intact.  In  this  case,  any  reasonable  establishment 
procedure,  concurred  by  the  IIC,  may  be  used  to  isolate 
and  show  that  no  portion  of  the  component  is  missing. 

3 . Product  that  is  known  to  be  contaminated  and 
unsalvageable . In  this  case,  the  contaminated  product 
is  subject  to  condemnation. 

4.  Product  such  as  whole  birds,  parts,  meat  cuts  or 
individual  pieces  on  which  there  is  only  non-toxic 
surface  contamination  that  can  be  seen  visually.  In 
this  case  any  reasonable  establishment  procedure, 
concurred  with  by  the  IIC,  may  be  used  to  recondition 
product  before  it  is  presented  for  visual  reinspection. 


VII.  ACCEPTABLE  DETECTION  EQUIPMENT 

A.  All  detection  equipment  must  be  acceptable  to  the 
Facilities,  Equipment  and  Sanitation  Division,  Equipment  Branch, 


Page  3 


as  set  forth  in  MPI  Regulations,  Sections  308.5  and  381.53. 

B.  Equipment  used  to  re-examine  product  placed  "on  hold" 

by  the  establishment  for  suspicion  of  particulate  contamination 
must  be  capable  of  detecting  particles  of  1/32"  [.031  inch 

(0.8mm)]  in  the  greatest  dimension.  Spheres  of  1/32"  [.031  inch 

(0.8mm)]  diameter  are  acceptable  for  use  in  determining  detection 
capability . 

C.  Prior  to  the  detection  operation,  such  equipment  must 
be  tested  with  seeded  samples.  The  testing  must  be  done  at  the 
same  rate  of  speed  that  will  be  used  to  process  the  suspect 
product . 

D.  The  samples  must  be  of  the  same  size,  shape,  and 
consistency  as  the  product  placed  on  hold  by  the  establishment. 
The  samples  should  be  seeded  with  appropriately  sized 
contaminants  of  the  same  type  material  which  the  detection 
equipment  is  intended  to  detect,  and  sufficiently  identified  to 
make  retrieval  easy.  Precautions  need  to  be  taken  to  prevent  the 
seeded  samples  from  being  included  in  product  intended  for  human 
consumption . 

E.  At  the  discretion  of  the  IIC,  the  seeded  sample  testing 
process  shall  be  used  2-4  times  per  hour  during  the  actual  re- 
examination of  the  suspect  product  to  assure  that  the  detection 
equipment  is  operating  properly. 

F.  X-Ray  Detection  Equipment 

1.  X-ray  detection  equipment  must  comply  with  special 
safety  requirements  as  follows: 

a.  The  equipment  must  comply  with  the  FDA 
Regulations,  21  CFR  179.21.  The  applicable  part  of  this 
regulation  states  that  the  radiation  source  must  be  X-ray  tubes 
producing  X-radiation  from  operation  of  the  tube  source  at  energy 
levels  of  300  kilovolt  peak  or  lower. 

b.  The  equipment  shall  bear  a label  identifying 

the  source  of  radiation  and  maximum  energy  of  radiation  emitted 
by  X-ray  tube  sources.  This  label  or  accompanying  labeling 
material  must  also  bear:  (1)  adequate  directions  for  installation 

and  use,  and  (2)  a statement  that  no  food  shall  be  exposed  to  the 
radiation  sources  listed  above  so  as  to  receive  an  absorbed  dose 
in  excess  of  1,000  rads. 

c.  The  X-ray  equipment  and  the  room  or  area  where 
it  is  installed  must  have  a sign  that  reads  "Caution-Equipment 
Produces  X-rays  When  Energized, " or  a similar  sign  that  conveys 
the  same  message. 


Page  4 


FSIS  Directive  7310.4 
Revision  2 


d.  The  X-ray  equipment: 

(1)  . Shall  be  equipped  with  a power 

indicator  light. 

(2)  . Should  be  key  controlled,  with  access 
to  keys  restricted  to  authorized  users. 

(3)  . Will  be  operated  by  experienced  and 
trained  individuals  and  will  follow  the  instructions  provided  by 
the  manufacturer. 

2.  Whenever  X-ray  equipment  is  used,  the  establishment 
should  maintain  records  which  address : 

a.  The  food  treated. 

b.  Lot  identification. 

c.  The  scheduled  process  showing  evidence  of 
compliance  with  such  process. 

d.  The  ionizing  energy  source  and  source 

calibration . 

e.  The  date  of  X-ray  processing. 

f . The  type  of  equipment  used  (make  and  model) . 

g.  Location  of  the  X-ray  equipment. 

h.  The  name(s)  of  persons  authorized  to  operate 

the  equipment . 

3 . Federal  and  State  laws  require  establishment 
employees  and  inspectors  to  wear  radiation  monitoring  badges  when 
working  in  the  X-ray  inspection  area.  If  an  establishment  has  a 
PQC  program  or  procedure  for  foreign  material  detection,  assigned 
badge  service  should  be  initiated  for  each  inspector.  The  IIC 
should  contact  the  Program  Management  Office  in  the  regional 
office  to  obtain  the  dosimeter  badge (s) . Dosimetry  badges  for 
inspection  personnel  are  available  from  the  Agricultural  Research 
Service  through  the  FSIS  regional  offices.  Inspectors  are 
required  to  wear  the  badges  when  working  in  the  vicinity  of  X-ray 
detection  equipment. 

4.  If  a TV-type  screen  is  used  to  monitor  products 


Page  5 


for  contamination,  operators  monitoring  the  screen  must  be 
relieved  periodically  to  avoid  eye/body  fatigue  and  reduce  the 
chance  of  missing  visual  detail. 

VIII.  PROCEDURAL  GUIDE  FOR  EXAMINING  CONTAMINATED  PRODUCT 

When  a product  is  suspected  of  being  contaminated,  it  must  be 
either  condemned  or  re-examined  to  detect  and  remove  any  particle 
1/32"  [.031  inch  (0.8mm]  or  larger,  in  the  largest  dimension. 

Product  re-examination  will  follow  the  approved  PQC  program, 
developed  according  to  PQC  Guideline  #270,  or  will  follow  an 
approved  written  salvage  procedure  as  prescribed  in  PQC  Guideline 
#260  which  was  developed  for  a specific  contamination  incident. 

In  either  case,  the  following  will  apply: 

A.  At  the  lie's  discretion,  seeded  samples  may  be  passed 
through  the  screening  operation  without  the  knowledge  of  the 
operator  who  monitors  the  process,  thereby  verifying  the  ability 
of  both  the  equipment  and  the  operator  to  detect  the 
contamination . 

B.  If  the  operator/equipment  monitoring  the  process  is 
unable  to  identify  the  seeded  sample,  all  product  re-examined 
after  the  last  identified  seeded  sample  must  be  rerun  or  disposed 
of  as  non-human  food. 

C.  If  the  operator/equipment  fails  repeatedly,  re- 
examination of  contaminated  product  will  cease  until  a more 
satisfactory  method  can  be  devised  and  approved,  or  the  product 
is  diverted  from  human  food  use. 

IX . RESPONSIBILITIES 
A.  The  lie  will: 

1.  Retain  all  suspect  contaminated  product  and  await  a 
decision  from  the  establishment  as  to  what  course  of  action  the 
establishment  wants  to  pursue. 

2.  Notify  the  regional  office,  through  supervisory 
channels,  each  time  suspect  product  is  re-examined. 

3 . Supervise  the  destruction  of  the  entire  lot  or  code 
if  the  establishment  chooses  to  destroy  it,  or  supervise  the 
destruction  of  product  which  is  still  contaminated  after  the  re- 
examination is  completed. 

4.  If  the  establishment  elects  to  re-examine  the 
suspect  contaminated  product  in  accordance  with  an  approved 
foreign  material  detection  PQC  program,  verify  that  the 
establishment  is  following  the  approved  PQC  program. 


Page  6 


FSIS  Directive  7310.4 
Revision  2 


5.  If  the  establishment  does  not  have  an  approved 
foreign  material  detection  PQC  program  and  elects  to  re-examine 
the  suspect  product,  secure  a written  procedure  from  the 
establishment.  Such  procedure  must  comply  with  Paragraphs  VIII. 
and  IX.  of  this  directive  and,  in  addition,  include  the  following 
information : 

a.  Description  of  the  product  (including  amount) . 

b.  Identity  and  description  of  the  contaminant. 

c.  Explanation  of  how  the  contamination  occurred. 

d.  Date  that  the  contamination  occurred. 

e.  Lots  or  codes  involved. 

f.  Present  status  and  location  of  product. 

g.  Detailed  description  of  intended  detection 
operation,  including  sorting,  reconditioning 
and/or  disposition  of  the  product. 

h.  Steps  that  will  be  taken  to  reduce  the  risk  of 
future  incidents  of  similar  contamination  of 
product . 

6 . Review  the  proposed  program  or  the  procedure  and 
forward  it,  along  with  any  comments,  to  the  Regional  Director 
through  supervisory  channels.  The  program  or  the  procedure 
should  not  be  submitted  if  the  establishment  elects  to  destroy 
the  entire  lot  or  code  of  the  contaminated  product. 

7.  After  the  program  or  the  procedure  is  approved  by 
the  Regional  Director,  monitor  all  aspects  of  the  detection 
process,  including  the  adequacy  and  competency  of  establishment 
personnel  conducting  the  operation. 

B.  The  Area  Supervisor  will: 

1.  Review  the  establishment's  proposed  PQC  program  or 
one-time  product  salvage  procedure. 

2.  Assure  that  the  explanation  of  how  the  product 
became  contaminated  is  accurate. 

3 . Assure  that  the  establishment  has  taken  steps  to 


Page  7 


( 


prevent  similar  future  contamination  of  product. 

4.  Forward  the  program  or  the  procedure,  along  with 
any  comments,  to  the  Regional  Director. 

C.  The  Regional  Director  will: 

1.  Review  the  recommendation  submitted  by  the  IIC  and 
Area  Supervisor  and  make  the  final  decision  regarding  the 
acceptability  of  the  proposed  PQC  program  or  of  the  one-time 
product  salvaging  procedure . 

2 . Coordinate  with  Processed  Products  Inspection 
Division,  Science  and  Technology,  or  Processing  Operations  Staff, 
Inspection  Management  Program,  Inspection  Operations,  if  unusual 
circumstances  are  involved  or  guidance  is  desired. 


i 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Fcxxj  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Room  0157-South  Building 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  U*e.  $300 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 
•POSTAGE  k FEES  PAIC 
USDA-Fsrs 
Permit  No.  G-  42 


R1 


103-0001 

E2 


37/41 4MPSLD1S94 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


7370 . 1 


9/28/93 


INSTRUCTIONS  FOR  VERIFYING  INTERNAL  TEMPERATURE 
AND  HOLDING  TIME  OF  MEAT  PATTIES 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  clarifies  the  method  to  be  used  by  FSIS  personnel 
to  determine  the  minimum  internal  temperature  and  holding  time  of 
cooked  meat  patties.  On  September  1,  1993,  the  regulation  "Heat- 
Processing  Procedures,  Cooking  Instructions,  and  Cooling, 

Handling  and  Storage  Requirements  for  Uncured,  Meat  Patties" 
became  effective.  Applicable  products  include  items  such  as 
cooked  hamburger,  Salisbury  steaks,  breaded  and  battered  chopped 
veal  steaks,  and  pork  sausage  patties.  In  addition,  this 
directive  will  assist  inspection  personnel  when  performing  the 
appropriate  interim  Inspection  System  Guide  temperature/time 
tasks  specified  in  FSIS  Notice  53-93,  Performance-Based 
Inspection  System  (PBIS)  Tasks  for  Heat-Processed,  Uncured  Meat 
Patties.  As  described  in  this  directive,  only  thermocouple 
thermometers  should  be  used  to  verify  cooked  patty  temperatures. 

II.  [RESERVED] 

III.  [RESERVED] 

IV.  REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulation,  Section  318.23 

FSIS  Notice  53-93,  dated  9/28/93 

FSIS  Directis^e  8820.1,  Rev.  1,  dated  3/1/91 

V.  BACKGROUND 

A.  Patties,  by  the  very  nature  of  their  shape,  present  a 
challenge  in  determining  the  internal  temperature,  especially  of 
the  "just-cooked"  patty.  Most  patties  are  cooked  as  they  travel 
on  a conveyor  belt  through  a broiler  or  fryer.  Heat  is 
transferred  from  the  cooking  medium  (i.e.,  gas  flames,  hot  oil) 
to  the  meat  patty.  The  surfaces  of  the  patty  become  the  hottest 
and  the  heat  transfers  from  the  exterior  of  the  patty  to  the 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors,  OPI:  S&T/PPID 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


interior  by  conduction.  That  is,  the  surface  particles  of  meat 
get  hot  and  transfer  some  of  that  heat  to  the  neighboring  cooler 
particles  and  so  on,  until  eventually,  the  entire  patty  would  be 
of  the  same  temperature.  This  process  is  cut  short  by  removing 
the  patty  from  the  heat  source.  However,  the  outer,  extra  hot 
particles  of  meat  continue  to  transfer  some  of  their  heat  to  the 
cooler  interior  portions  of  the  patty  and  may  continue  to 
increase  the  internal  temperature  of  the  patty  by  3°F  or  more 
over  what  it  was  when  first  removed  from  the  heat  source. 

B.  The  typical  dial  thermometers  used  by  many  of  the  FSIS 
field  personnel  are  designed  to  operate  with  the  entire  lower 
portion  of  the  probe  inserted  into  the  meat  product.  The  2-inch 
"sensing"  portion  of  the  probe  gives  a reading  that  is  an  average 
of  the  temperatures  along  its  length.  This  is  not  much  of  a 
significant  problem  when  verifying  the  temperature  of  a sauce  or 
a roast.  However,  the  temperature  gradient  in  a patty  can  be 
from  >200°F.  on  the  surface  to  <140°F.  in  the  interior. 

Averaging  the  temperature  gradient  results  in  a faulty  reading 
for  the  "internal  temperature"  of  the  patty  and  may  indicate  a 
fully-cooked  patty  when,  in  fact,  one  does  not  exist.  There  are 
newer,  more  accurate  temperature  sensing  devices  available. 

C.  Thermocouple  thermometers  will  be  used  to  verify  the 
temperature  of  cooked  meat  patties.  The  thermocouple  thermometer 
is  used  in  the  same  manner  as  the  traditional  thermometer; 
however,  the  sensitive  portion  is  restricted  to  the  very  tip  of 
the  probe.  The  probe  itself  is  a smaller  diameter  (1/16") 
allowing  easier  insertion  into  the  center  of  a thin  patty.  The 
dial  is  replaced  by  a hand-held  digital  read-out  device.  These 
thermometers  are  also  more  fragile  and  much  more  expensive  than 
the  dial  thermometers.  The  inspectors  receiving  a thermocouple 
thermometer  will  also  receive  instructions  for  care  and 
maintenance.  The  instrument  and  probe  must  be  kept  clean. 

Regular  wiping  with  a damp  cloth  will  usually  suffice.  If  extra 
cleaning  is  necessary,  only  mild  soaps  should  be  used;  never  any 
form  of  solvent . 

VI . RESPONSIBILITIES 

A.  Establishinent  Responsibilities;  Controlling  the  process 
through  process  monitoring  and  assuring  that  the  finished  product 
is  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  MPI  Regulation,  Section 
318 . 23 . 


B.  Inspector  Responsibilities; 

1.  Monitoring  the  compliance  of  cooked  meat  patties 
with  the  regulatory  requirements  for  heat -processing  procedures, 
cooking  instructions,  and  cooling,  handling,  and  storage 
requirements,  as  directed  through  PBIS. 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  7370.1 


2.  Taking  appropriate  action  when  results  indicate 
non-compliance  with  the  regulations,  as  specified  in  FSIS 
Directive  8820.1,  Rev.  1. 

VII.  INSTRUCTIONS 

When  verifying  cooked  meat  patty  temperatures,  the  inspector 
should : 


A.  Verify  the  Accuracy  of  the  Thermocouple  Thermometer. 

1.  All  thermometers  require  calibration  to  be 
accurate.  Thermocouple  thermometers  contain  electronic 
components  that  are  not  accessible  to  the  user.  These 
thermometers  are  calibrated  at  the  factory  against  an  instrument 
traceable  to  the  National  Institute  of  Standards  and  Technology. 
If  properly  used,  the  thermocouple  thermometer  should  stay 
correctly  calibrated  for  2 to  3 years. 

2.  Calibration  of  the  thermometer  should  be  checked  at 
32°F.,  the  freezing  temperature  of  water.  A freely  draining, 
melting  ice  bath  may  be  used  for  medium  at  32 °F.  It  is  important 
that  the  probe  of  the  thermometer  not  be  allowed  to  rest  on  the 
bottom  of  the  container  of  freezing  water.  Allow  the  thermometer 
to  remain  in  the  water  bath  for  1 minute  before  taking  the 
reading.  It  is  best  to  compare  the  reading  of  the  "test" 
thermometer  with  the  reading  of  a mercury- in-glass  thermometer 
that  is  of  known  accuracy. 

3 . Calibration  of  the  thermometer  should  be  checked  at 
212°F.,  the  boiling  temperature  of  water.  Boiling  water  is  used 
for  medium  at  212 °F.  Water  boils  at  a simmer;  it  need  not  be  a 
rolling  boil.  It  is  important  that  the  probe  of  the  thermometer 
not  be  allowed  to  rest  on  the  bottom  of  the  container  of  boiling 
water.  Allow  the  thermometer  to  remain  in  the  water  bath  for  a 
minute  before  taking  the  reading.  It  is  best  to  compare  the 
reading  of  the  "test"  thermometer  with  the  reading  of  a mercury- 
in-glass  thermometer  that  is  of  known  accuracy. 

4.  If  the  reading  on  the  thermocouple  thermometer  is 
off  by  more  than  1°F.,  then  it  should  not  be  used.  Contact  your 
immediate  supervisor  for  a replacement  and  return  the  inaccurate 
unit  for  servicing.  Contact  the  regional  office  for  shipping 
instructions . 


Page  3 


B.  Verify  Patty  Temperature . 


1.  Sanitizing  the  probe  and  patty  disposition.  The 

probe  must  always  be  cleaned  and  sanitized  prior  to  performing  a 
temperature  verification  task.  After  a temperature  is  taken  of 
product  which  does  not  comply  with  the  time/temperature 
regulation,  as  in  Paragraph  VIII,  B.,  3.,  reclean  and  sanitize 
the  probe.  All  patties  used  by  inspection  personnel  to  determine 
compliance  with  the  time/temperature  regulation  should  be 
returned  to  plant  management  for  disposition. 

2.  Tempering.  A thermometer  at  room  temperature 
cannot  be  inserted  directly  into  a hot  patty  without  having  some 
cooling  effect  on  it.  The  relative  coolness  of  the  probe  acts  to 
chill  the  patty,  while  the  heat  of  the  patty  warms  up  the  probe. 
Insert  the  probe  into  several  patties  successively  to  warm  it  up 
to  the  desired  range  before  taking  a verification  temperature. 

3.  Checking  for  "cold  spots".  If  patties  exit  a 
cooker  in  several  rows  across  a conveyor  belt,  it  is  necessary  to 
take  the  temperature  of  a patty  from  each  row,  one  at  a time,  to 
determine  the  existence  of  "cold  spots" . For  taking  verification 
temperatures,  select  a patty  from  the  coldest  row. 

4.  Inserting  the  probe.  As  quickly  as  possible, 
remove  the  patty  from  the  conveyor,  and  insert  the  thermocouple 
probe.  Insert  the  probe  from  the  side  of  the  patty,  putting  the 
sensitive  area  as  close  to  the  geometric  center  of  the  patty  as 
possible . 

NOTE:  It  is  important  not  to  stack  the  patties  and  insert  the 

thermometer  through  the  center  of  the  stack.  With  the  much 
smaller  thermocouple  probe,  inserting  the  probe  into  a very  thin 
patty  will  not  be  as  difficult  as  it  is  with  the  dial 
thermometers.  Only  thermocouple  thermometers  should  be  used  to 
verify  patty  temperatures. 

5.  Reading  the  temperature.  Allow  time  for 
equilibration  after  the  thermometer  is  inserted  into  the  patty. 
This  should  take  only  a couple  of  seconds.  Do  not  "help"  the 
thermometer  along  by  tapping  the  patty  or  wiggling  the  probe. 
Gripping  the  patty  between  the  fingers  should  also  be  avoided. 
Take  note  of  the  highest  temperature  registered  by  the 
thermocouple  thermometer.  This  is  the  "minimum  internal 
temperature"  of  the  patty. 

6.  Rounding  rules.  The  thermocouple  thermometers  are 
calibrated  to  read  in  0.1°F.  increments.  These  readings  may  be 
rounded  off  to  the  nearest  whole  number.  Thus,  a digital  read- 
out of  150.5  to  150. 9°F.  shall  be  viewed  equivalent  to  151®F. 


Page  4 


FSIS  Directive  7370.1 


C.  Verify  Holding  Time.  The  heat  processing  requirement  of 
the  patty  regulation  addresses  not  only  internal  temperature, 
but  also  holding  time.  After  the  patty  reaches  the  "minimum 
internal  temperature, " the  time  must  be  monitored  to  assure  that 
the  product  maintains  at  least  that  temperature  for  the  required 
time.  Any  timepiece  which  reads  seconds  may  suffice.  This 
includes  stopwatches,  wristwatches , and  pocket  watches.  Timing 
devices  that  are  preset  and  tripped  to  begin  countdown  are 
acceptable  so  long  as  they  are  incremented  in  seconds.  An 
establishment  may  make  available  to  the  inspector  a timing  device 
identical  to  the  one  used  by  establishment  personnel. 

VIII.  TEMPERATURE/TIME  COMBINATIONS 

A.  The  patty  regulation  allows  manufacturers  the  option  of 
several  time/temperature  combinations.  The  establishment  should 
make  available  which  time  and  temperature  combination  will  be 
used  on  each  lot  prior  to  the  production  run. 

B.  Heating  Deviations  and  Corrective  Actions: 

1.  Example  of  a heat  process  in  compliance:  Assume  the 

manufacturer  chooses  the  time/temperature  combination  of  16 
seconds  at  155 °F.  The  thermometer  shows  a temperature  reading  of 
155°F  when  first  inserted,  then  travels  to  156°. F and  157°F. 
before  coming  back  to  155°F.  The  time  interval  between  the  first 
registered  reading  of  155 °F.  and  then  subsequently  rising  and 
then  falling  below  155°F.  is  eighteen  seconds.  The  heat 
processing  is  in  compliance. 

2 . Example  of  a heat  process  which  may  require 
additional  monitoring:  A deficiency  would  not  be  documented  if 

the  establishment  fails  to  meet  their  selected  temperature/time 
combination  but  does  meet  another  temperature/time  combination  as 
shown  in  Table  A of  the  MPI  Regulations,  Section  318.23. 

Although  not  considered  a deficiency,  this  situation  may  indicate 
a lack  of  process  control.  Therefore,  the  inspector  may  decide 
to  perform  additional  unscheduled  tasks  to  ensure  that  one  of  the 
temperature/time  combinations  as  provided  in  Table  A is  met. 

3.  Exeunple  of  a heat  process  not  in  compliance:  It 

may  be  that  the  product  does  not  comply  with  any  of  the 
temperature/time  combinations  listed  in  the  regulation.  The 
product  is  not  in  compliance  and  must  be  handled  as  specified  in 
§318.23  (c)  (2),  Requirements  for  Handling  Heating  or  Cooling 
Deviations  of  the  MPI  Regulations.  The  product  may  be 
reprocessed  or  used  as  rework  in  product  that  is  to  be  heat 
processed  to  one  of  the  temperature/time  combinations,  or 
relabeled  as  partially-cooked  product. 


Page  5 


Any  questions  regarding  this  directive  should  be  referred  to  the 
next  level  of  supervision. 


Dei 


Deputy  Administrator 
Inspection  Operations 


Page  6 * U.s.  G.P.0.:1993-341-645;80024/FSIS 


I 


I 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENfT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIREGTiVE 


7410.2 
Rev . 1 


10/6/93 


PACKAGING  MATERIALS  MONITORING 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  guidelines  for  complying  with  the 
packaging  monitoring  requirements  contained  in  Sections 
317.24(d)  and  381.144(d)  of  the  MPI  Regulations. 


II.  CANCELLATION 

FSIS  Directive  7410.2,  dated  9/20/85 


III.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE  ■ 

This  revision  updates  references  to  MPI  Regulations,  Sections  ■ 
317.24  (formerly  designated  as  317.20)  and  381.144(d);  FSIS  ■ 
Directive  11,000.2  (formerly  Part  8.34  of  the  MPI  Manual) . ■ 
It  revises  FSIS  Form  11,300-11  (formerly  FSIS  Form  6800-11).  ■ 
This  revision  also  updates  the  phone  number,  mailing  address,  ■ 
and  organization  structure  for  the  Product  Assessment  Division,* 
Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch  (formerly  Food  Ingredient  ■ 
Assessment  Division,  Product  Safety  Branch) , Regulatory  ■ 
Programs . ■ 


IV.  REFERENCES 

21  CFR  7.12  and  7.13,  FDA  Regulations; 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  301.2,  317.24,  381.1,  and  381.144; 
FSIS  Directive  11,000.2  dated  4/28/87; 

FSIS  Directive  7410.1,  Rev.  1,  dated  7/1/93; 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors , DPI:  RP/PAD 

Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


V. 


ABBREVIATIONS  AND  FORM 


The  following  will  appear  in  their  abbreviated  form  in  this 
directive : 

FFDCA  Federal  Food,  Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act 

lie  Inspector  In  Charge 

PAD  Product  Assessment  Division  ■ 

CPB  Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch  ■ 

10  Inspection  Operations  ■ 

FSIS  Form  11, 300-ll--Packaging  Material  Monitoring  ■ 


VI . POLICY 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  317.24  and  381.144,  note  that  offi-  ■ 
cial  establishments  must  receive  from  the  suppliers  of  their 
packaging  materials  and  retain  in  their  files,  written  guaranties 
that  the  materials  comply  with  the  FFDCA,  as  amended,  and  all 
applicable  food  additive  regulations.  Such  guaranties  establish 
that  the  described  packaging  materials  are  in  compliance  unless 
the  inspector  has  specific  reasons  to  believe  otherwise.  FSIS 
will  monitor  the  use  of  packaging  materials  in  official 
establishments  to  ensure  that  the  written  guaranties  can  be 
substantiated . 


VII.  INSPECTOR'S  RESPONSIBILITIES 

A.  The  lie  shall: 

1.  Receive  FSIS  Form  11,300-11,  (See  Attachment  1),  ■ 

which  will  be  forwarded  to  randomly  selected  establishments 

by  the  CPB . ■ 

2.  Select  a specified  number  of  packaging  material (s) 
(one  material  per  monitoring  form)  during  the  timeframe  indicated 
on  the  monitoring  form.  If  possible,  different  kinds  of 
materials  (e.g.,  cans,  plastic  film,  etc.)  should  be  selected  and 
the  material (s)  should  be  currently  in  use  at  the  establishment 
and  covered  by  a guaranty. 

3 . Provide  the  necessary  information  as  indicated  on 

the  monitoring  form.  Most  of  this  information  can  be  taken 
directly  from  the  guaranty.  If  no  material  is  used  at  the 
establishment,  ***  the  IIC  should  write  "NONE"  in  Item  1 ***  ■ 

and  complete  Item  6 . ■ 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  7410.2 
Revision  1 

4.  Use  the  self-addressed  envelope  that  accompanies 
the  monitoring  form  and  return  it  completed  to  CPB . A sample 
of  the  packaging  material  should  not  be  submitted. 

5.  Allow  continued  use  of  a material  during  the 
review  period.  Selection  of  a material  for  review  does  not 
affect  a material's  acceptability.  If  the  acceptability  of  a 
packaging  material  cannot  be  confirmed,  the  IIC  at  the 
establishment  where  the  material  was  selected  for  review  will 
be  notified  by  Headquarters  10  office.  Subsequently,  an  FSIS 
listing  of  selected  materials  will  be  issued  to  inform  all 
other  establishments. 

VIII.  REVIEW  REQUIREMENTS 

A.  CPB  will  review  the  information  provided  by  the  IIC 
on  FSIS  Form  11,300-11.  If  CPB  does  not  have  the  complete 
chemical  composition  of  a packaging  material  that  has  been 
selected,  a letter  (See  Attachment  2)  will  be  sent  to 
establishment  management  with  copies  to  the  IIC  and  the  pack- 
aging material  supplier.  CPB  will  assign  a Monitoring  Control 
Number  to  each  monitoring  form.  This  number  must  be  included 
on  all  correspondence  from  establishment  management  or  the 
material  supplier  in  order  to  track  the  progress  of  the  *** 
evaluation  of  the  selected  packaging  material. 

B.  CPB  will  review  additional  information  requested  in 
Attachment  2 that  would  verify  the  basis  for  the  supplier's 
guaranty. 


1.  The  establishment/supplier  will  have  a minimum  of 

30  days  to  submit  the  information.  The  information  should 
include,  but  not  necessarily  be  limited  to:  manufacturing 

firm's  name,  brand  name  or  code  designation  for  the  material, 
complete  chemical  composition,  and  intended  use  of  the  selected 
material.  The  Monitoring  Control  Number,  as  shown  at  the 
bottom  of  Attachment  2,  should  be  included  on  all  correspondence 
from  the  establishment  or  packaging  supplier  concerning  that 
packaging  material . 

2.  If  CPB  does  not  receive  a reply  from  the  pack- 
aging material  supplier  within  the  timeframe  specified,  a 


Page  3 


final  notice  (See  Attachment  3)  will  be  sent  to  establishment 
management  with  copies  to  the  IIC  and  the  packaging  material 
supplier . 


3.  If  no  response  to  the  final  notice  is  received 
and  the  safety  and/or  acceptability  of  the  material  cannot  be 
confirmed,  continued  use  of  the  packaging  material  may  be 
denied  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  in  MPI  Regulations, 
Sections  317.24(e)  and  381.144(d).  If  use  of  a packaging 
material  is  denied,  the  IIC  at  the  establishment  where  the 
material  was  selected  for  review  will  be  notified  by  Head- 
quarters 10  office.  Subsequently,  an  FSIS  listing  will  be 
issued  to  inform  all  other  establishments. 

C.  Inspectors  shall  not  take  action  to  prevent  use  of 
the  material  until  official  notification  is  issued. 


IX.  NOTIFICATION  OF  UNACCEPTABLE  MATERIALS 

If  the  use  of  a material  is  denied  by  the  Administrator,  the 
IIC  at  the  establishment  where  the  material  was  selected  for 
review  will  be  immediately  notified  by  the  Headquarters  10 
office.  Also,  FSIS  will  periodically  issue  to  inspectors  a 
listing,  by  distinguishing  brand  name  or  code  designation  and 
by  the  supplier's  name  and  address,  of  packaging  materials  that 
have  been  reviewed  and  have  failed  to  meet  the  requirements  of 
the  FFDCA,  as  amended.  Materials  listed  are  those  not  permitted 
for  use  in  official  establishments.  If  a subsequent  review  of 
any  material  indicates  that  it  meets  the  requirements  of  the 
FFDCA,  a letter  will  be  issued  to  the  packaging  material 
supplier  superseding  the  listing.  This  letter  will  serve  as 
proof  of  acceptability  until  a subsequent  listing  is  issued. 

A.  Upon  receipt  of  notification  by  the  Headquarters  10  ■ 

office  or  the  FSIS  listing,  the  IIC  will  take  the  following 
actions : 


1.  Follow  instructions  given  in  the  notification  of 
unacceptable  materials,  which  will  be  sent  by  the  Headquarters 
10  Office.  ■ 


2.  Review  the  FSIS  listing  to  determine  if  any  listed 
materials  are  in  use  at  the  establishment.  The  inspector  should 
not  allow  materials  listed  in  the  FSIS  listing  to  be  used  in 
official  establishments  unless  notified  otherwise.  Unless  an 
imminent  hazard  to  public  health  exists,  no  product  recalls  or 
repackaging  should  be  required.  The  disposition  of  materials 


Page  4 


FSIS  Directive  7410.2 
Revision  1 


already  in  the  establishment,  which  appear  in  the  FSIS  listing, 
and  of  food  products  packaged  in  such  materials,  will  be  handled 
on  a case-by-case  basis  in  the  notification. 


Inspection  Operations 


Attachments 

1 — FSIS  Form  11,300-11 

2 — Example — FSIS  Letter  to  Establishment 

3 — Example — Final  FSIS  Letter  to  Establishment 


Page  5 


FSIS  Directive  7410.2 
Revision  1 
Attachment  1 


UX  Of^AATMl MT  Of  ACAtCULfljAf 
fOOO  SANITY  AMO  (M5A«CTK>M  SCiIVCI 
VI^ASMIMCTOM.  O.C  20M 

PACKAGING  MATERIAL  MONITORING 


MONITORING  CONTROL  NO-. 


I COLLECT  DURING  WEEK  Of: 


Return  to:  USDA,  FSIS,  RP.  PAD 

Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch 
Builaing  306.  Room  300,  BARC-East 
Beltsville,  MD  20705 


FSIS  monitors  the  use  of  food  contact  packaging  materials  (Refer  to  FSIS  Directive  7410.2)  in  official  establishments  to 
assure  that  they  conform  to  the  requirements  ot  the  Federal  Food,  Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act.  This  plant  was  randomly 
selected. 

* Provide  the  information  indicated  below  on  a food  contact  packaging  material. 

* The  packaging  material  must  be  in  use  at  this  plant. 

* Use  the  letter  of  guaranty  to  verify  applicable  information. 

* If  no  packing  material  is  in  use  at  t^  time,  indicate  “none'*  in  item  1 below. 

* Return  form  in  attached  envelope. 


PtfASE  PRINT  OR  TVP€ 


1.  BRAND  NAME  OF  PACKAGING  MATERIAL  OR  CODE  DESIGNATION  INDICATED  ON  LABEUNG,  SHIPPING  INVOICE,  OR  OTHER  IDENTIFYING 
DOCUMENTS  (orattsch  copy  of  guaranty). 


2.  NAME  AND  ADDRESS  OF  FIRM  SUPPLYING  PACKAGING  MATERIAL  (or  attach  copy  of  guaranty). 


3.  NAME  OF  OFFICIAL  THAT  SIGNED  GUARANTY 


4.  CHECK  Aa 


S3SMELE  COPY 

0 b.  Boiling  water  cooked  (e.g.,  212*F) 

1 I c.  Hot  filled  or  pasteurized  above  150*F 
I I d.  Hot  filled  or  pasteurized  below  150*F 

I I e.  Room  temperature  filled  and  stored  (ru>  thermal  treatment  in  the  container) 

O f.  Refrigerated  storage  (no  thermal  treatment  in  the  container; 
n g.  TTOzen  stOTZge  I no  thermal  treatment  in  the  container) 

0 h.  Frozen  or  refrigerated  storage:  intended  to  be  reheated  or  cooked  in  container  at  time  of  use 

1 ! i.  Irradiated  in  package  material 

C j.  Other  ((iescnbe^ 


enal) 


5.  TYPE(S)  OF  FOOD  PRODUOIS)  PACKAGED  IN  THIS  MATERIAL  (e.g,  fretn  port,  roast  Oeet.  gioitts.  etc) 


6.  INSPECTOR  NAME  (Pnnt  or  ryp*i 


initials  I EST.NO. 

I 


RETURN  COMPLETED  FORM  IN  ATTACHED  ENVaOPE 


I DATE 

! 

i 


If  you  ha  V*  any  problema  or  quealiona.  call  Com  pounds  and  Picks  (U>s  Branch.  PAD.  FTS  SO^SSSS.  (f  FTS  u not  available,  call  collect  iJUli  SOk-dSbS 


FSIS  FORM  n.JOO-n  (3/931 


PREVIOUS  EOmON  OBSOLETE. 


Page  6 


FSIS  Directive  7410.2 
Revision  1 
Attachment  2 


Manager,  Establishment  # Date 

Establishment  Name 
Establishment  Address 
Establishment  Address 

Dear  Establishment  Manager: 

In  accordance  with  MPI  Regulations,  Sections  317.24  and  381.144,  the  Food 
Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  monitors  the  use  of  food  contact 
packaging  materials  in  official  establishments  to  assure  that  they  conform  to 
the  requirements  of  the  Federal  Food,  Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act  and  all 
applicable  food  additive  regulations.  This  establishment  was  selected  at 
random  to  participate  in  the  monitoring  program. 

On  (Date)  , the  Federal  Inspector  at  this  establishment  selected 

(Material  Name)  supplied  by  (Supplier's  Name)  for  review.  FSIS  has  no 
information  on  file  concerning  this  packaging  material.  Therefore,  we  will 
need  the  complete  chemical  composition  and  intended  use  from  the  supplier  in 
order  to  ensure  that  the  written  guaranty  from  the  supplier  listed  above  can 
be  substantiated. 

All  major  and  minor  constituents  in  the  formulation  must  be  listed  by  proper 
chemical  name  as  they  appear  in  the  appropriate  regulations  (Title  21,  Code  of 
Federal  Regulations).  Dyes  and  pigments  must  be  identified  by  their  5-digit 
Colour  Index  Constitution  number  or  structural  formula.  Each  ingredient 
should  be  further  identified  by  its  CAS  registry  number  when  available. 
Chemical  formulations  and  other  proprietary  information  are  held  in  a 
confidential  file  and  used  only  to  evaluate  the  material. 

Please  have  your  packaging  material  supplier  submit  the  complete  composition 
of  the  above  material  to  the  address  below  within  30  days.  If  the  information 
is  not  provided  within  the  time  indicated,  the  guaranty  will  be  considered 
invalid  and  use  of  this  material  in  official  establishments  may  be  denied. 

USDA,  FSIS,  RP,  PAD 
Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch 
Bldg.  306,  BARC-East 
Beltsville,  Maryland  20705 

All  correspondence  concerning  this  request  must  include  the  monitoring  control 
number  below  or  a copy  of  this  letter. 

* **************************** 

* (monitoring  control  #)  * 

**************************** 

If  you  have  any  problems,  please  call  the  Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch  at 
(301)  504-8566. 

Sincerely, 


John  M.  Damare,  Chief 
Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch 
Product  Assessment  Division 
Regulatory  Programs 


cc:  Inspector  in  Charge 

Packaging  Material  Supplier 


Page  7 


FSIS  Directive  7410.2 
Revision  2 
Attachment  3 


Manager,  Establishment  # 

Establishment  Name 
Establishment  Address 

Establishment  Address  FINAL  NOTICE  - (date) 

Dear  Establishment  Manager: 

In  accordance  with  MPI  Regulations,  Sections  317.24  and  381.144,  the  Food 
Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  monitors  the  use  of  food  contact 
packaging  materials  in  official  establishments  to  assure  that  they  conform  to 
the  requirements  of  the  Federal  Food,  Drug,  and  Cosmetic  Act  and  all 
applicable  food  additive  regulations.  This  establishment  was  selected  at 
random  to  participate  in  the  monitoring  program. 

On  (Date) , the  Federal  Inspector  at  this  establishment  selected 

(Material  Name)  supplied  by  (Supplier's  Name)  for  review.  FSIS  has  no 
information  on  file  concerning  this  packaging  material.  Therefore,  we  will 
need  the  complete  chemical  composition  and  intended  use  from  the  supplier  in 
order  to  ensure  that  the  written  guaranty  from  the  supplier  listed  above  can 
be  substantiated. 

All  major  and  minor  constituents  in  the  formulation  must  be  listed  by  proper 
chemical  name  as  they  appear  in  the  appropriate  regulations  (Title  21,  Code  of 
Federal  Regulations).  Dyes  and  pigments  must  be  identified  by  their  5-digit 
Colour  Index  Constitution  number  or  structural  formula.  Each  ingredient 
should  be  further  identified  by  its  CAS  registry  number  when  available. 
Chemical  formulations  and  other  proprietary  information  are  held  in  a 
confidential  file  and  used  only  to  evaluate  the  material. 

Please  have  your  packaging  material  supplier  submit  the  complete  composition 
of  the  above  material  to  the  address  below  within  30  days.  If  the  information 
is  not  provided  within  the  time  indicated,  the  guaranty  will  be  considered 
invalid  and  use  of  this  material  in  official  establishments  may  be  denied. 

USDA,  FSIS,  RP,  PAD 
Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch 
Bldg.  306,  BARC-East 
Beltsville,  Maryland  20705 

All  correspondence  concerning  this  request  must  include  the  monitoring  control 
number  below  or  a copy  of  this  letter. 

**************************** 

* (monitoring  control  #)  * 

**************************** 

If  you  have  any  problems,  please  call  the  Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch  at 
(301)  504-8566. 

Sincerely,  Failure  to  respond  to  this  final  notice 

within  30  days  will  result  in  invalidation 
of  the  guaranty  for  this  material. 

John  M.  Damare,  Chief 
Compounds  and  Packaging  Branch 
Product  Assessment  Division 
Regulatory  Programs 

cc:  Inspector  in  Charge 

Packaging  Material  Supplier 


Page  8 *U.S.  G.P.O. :1993-300-402:80026/FSIS 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


7630.1 
Rev.  3 


2-3-94 


PARTIAL  QUALITY  CONTROL  FOR  PROCESSING  OPERATIONS 


I . PURPOSE 

This  revised  directive  provides  current  FSIS  policy  and 
procedures  with  respect  to  submittal  and  routing  for  approval  of 
new,  revised,  or  amended  PQC  programs/procedures  for  processing 
operations.  The  list  of  PQC  programs/procedures  has  been  updated 
and  is  attached  to  this  directive. 


II.  CANCELLATION 

FSIS  Directive  7630.1,  Rev.  2,  dated  9/6/90 


III.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE 


This  directive  has  been  rewritten  in  its  entirety  to: 


'7' 

cC 

...c 


Provide  FSIS  employees  guidance  for  processing  and 
routih^*J^pf  establishment-submitted  proposals  for  new,  revised,  or 
amended,  /PQC  programs /procedures ; 

a ( 

B ^ -^Update  organizational  references; 

‘ ' < 
s'O  ‘Sc 

C.  /VvProvide  a new  FSIS  Form  7630-1  (see  Attachment  1)  ; and 


t'p.  ' -Upda  and  attach  the  list  of  PQC  programs  (see 
Attachment  . 


/IV. 

REFERENCES 

'MPI 

Regulations,  Sections  318.4  and  381 

V. 

ABBREVIATIONS  AND  FORM 

AS 

Area  Supervisor 

lie 

Inspector  in  Charge 

PQC 

Partial  Quality  Control 

QC 

Quality  Control 

RD 

Regional  Director 

#) 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices, 

T/A  Inspectors,  Plant  Management,  T/A  Plant 
Management,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


OPI:  S&T/PPID 


S&T  Science  and  Technology 

TQC  Total  Quality  Control 

FSIS  Form  7630-1,  TQC/PQC  Program  Submittal  Cover  Sheet, 

dated  6/93 

VI . DEFINITIONS 

A.  Voluntary  PQC  programs/approved  procedures  are  those 
elected  by  the  processor;  they  are  not  required  by  FSIS. 

B.  Mandatory  PQC  programs /approved  procedures  are  required 
under  FSIS  regulations  to  produce  certain  products  or  control 
certain  processes. 

C.  Conditional  PQC  programs /approved  procedures  are  those 
designed  to  process  products  or  to  control  processes  in  a manner 
that  complies  with  guidelines,  policy  memoranda,  or  other  FSIS 
publications,  such  as  notices  or  directives. 

D.  Approving  Authority  will  be  either  the  RD  or,  when 
specific  expertise  is  needed,  S&T,  Headquarters,  Washington,  DC. 

VII.  GENERAL  RESPONSIBILITIES 

A.  The  Processed  Products  Inspection  Division,  S&T,  will 
continue  to  issue  new,  revised,  or  amended  PQC  guidelines  and 
policy  statements,  as  needed,  and  to  receive  and  address 
technical  PQC  policy  concerns. 

B.  Inspection  Operations  will  receive  and  address  concerns 
about  general  operations  and  administrative  responsibilities 
under  a PQC  program. 

C.  The  RD,  in  most  cases,  will  be  the  "Approving 
Authority"  for  establishment-proposed  new,  revised,  or  amended 
PQC  programs/procedures. 

D.  S&T  will  be  the  "Approving  Authority"  when  specific 
expertise  is  needed. 

VIII.  DEVELOPMENT  OF  PROPOSED  PQC  PROGRAM/ PROCEDURE 

A.  Upon  request  by  the  establishment  for  information  on 
PQC  programs/procedures,  the  IIC  will  advise  the  establishment  to 
contact  the  Regional  QC  Specialist.  The  QC  Specialist  will 
furnish  the  establishment  with  available  PQC  information,  which 
includes  FSIS  regulation  requirements,  policies  and  other  FSIS 
material.  Guidelines  for  individual  PQC  programs/procedures  can 
be  obtained  through  the  Area  Office. 


Page  2 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 


B.  Questions  regarding  PQC  programs /procedures  should  be 
directed  to  the  Regional  QC  Specialist. 

C.  All  new  or  revised  PQC  programs/procedures  should  be 
accompanied  by  a cover  letter  that  contains  all  the  information 
listed  below.  The  cover  letter  for  an  amendment  to  an  already 
approved  program/procedure  must  contain,  at  a minimum,  items 
"1.,"  "2.,"  "3.,"  and  "7."  below. 

1.  Date  of  submission  of  documentation. 

2.  Name  of  company/establishment,  address,  telephone 
number,  and  establishment  number. 

3.  Objective  of  the  proposed  new/revised/amended  PQC 
program/procedure . 

4 . Length  of  time  data  generated  by  the 

establishment's  proposed  or  existing  PQC  program  will  be 
retained.  Example:  "All  records  generated  by  this  PQC  program 

will  be  retained  a minimum  of  1 year." 

5.  Statement  of  establishment's  commitment  to  make 
all  data,  records,  and  information  generated  as  a result  of  the 
proposed  PQC  program/procedure  readily  available  to  USDA 
officials . 


6.  Statement  that  an  assigned,  responsible 
establishment  employee  will  be  given  authority  to  halt  production 
and  restrict  shipment  of  product  if  standards  established  for  the 
program/procedure  are  not  met. 

7.  Original  signature  of  establishment  official 
responsible  for  quality  control  with  printed  name  and  title 
included . 

D.  Information  in  the  establishment's  cover  letter  shall 
meet  the  requirements  of  MPI  regulations,  §§  318.4  and  381.145. 

E.  All  pages  and  attachments  (i.e.,  required  labels, 
charts,  forms,  etc.)  to  the  PQC  program/procedure  are  to  be 
numbered . 

F.  Establishment  provides  the  original  to  the  Regional 
Office  and  three  copies  to  the  IIC. 


Page  3 


IX. 


APPROVAL  PROCESS 


A.  The  lie  will  initiate  and  forward  FSIS  Form  7630-1  to 
the  AS  (see  Attachment  1) . FSIS  Form  7630-1  is  used  to  obtain 
lie  and  AS  comments  to  aid  the  RD  in  approve /disapprove  decisions 
on  establishment -generated  proposals  for  PQC  programs  or 
procedures.  When  completing  FSIS  Form  7630-1,  assure  the 
following  steps  are  taken: 

1.  Review  the  proposal,  using  appropriate  guidelines. 

2.  State,  in  the  "comments"  section,  the  capability 
of  the  establishment,  including  facilities  and  equipment,  to 
comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  proposed  new,  revised,  or 
amended  PQC  program/procedure. 


3 . Recommend  approval  or  disapproval . 

4.  Sign. 

5.  Forward  the  completed  FSIS  Form  7630-1  and  three 
copies  of  the  establishment's  cover  letter  and  proposal  to  the  AS 
within  5 working  days  of  receipt. 

B.  The  AS,  upon  receipt  of  FSIS  Form  7630-1  and  three 
copies  of  the  proposal,  will: 

1.  Review  the  proposal  and  the  IIC's  comments. 

2.  Comment  on  the  same  FSIS  Form  7630-1  that  the  IIC 
made  comments  on. 


3 . Sign . 

4.  Forward  the  completed  FSIS  Form  7630-1  and  three 
copies  of  the  establishment's  cover  letter  and  proposal  to  the  RD 
within  5 working  days  of  receipt . 


C.  The  RD  will,  upon  receipt  of  the  proposal: 

1.  Review  current  FSIS  guidelines  to  determine 
whether  the  proposed  program/procedure  is  "voluntary, " 
"mandatory,"  or  "conditional,"  as  defined  in  Part  VI,  and  whether 
the  "Approving  Authority"  is  the  RD  or  is  S&T,  Headquarters, 
Washington,  D.C.  Examples  of  proposals  requiring  S&T  approval 
include  those  programs/procedures  for: 


a.  Processing  shelf  stable  canned  product  or 
perishable,  uncured  products  in  hermetically  sealed  containers. 
The  "Approving  Authority"  will  be  the  Canning  Procedures  Branch, 
Processed  Products  Inspection  Division,  S&T. 


Page  4 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 


b.  Water  re-use.  The  "Approving  Authority"  will 
be  the  Facilities,  Equipment,  and  Sanitation  Division,  S&T. 

c.  Poultry  chilling,  moisture  control,  and  other 
similar  meat  and  poultry  activities.  The  "Approving  Authority" 
will  be  the  Slaughter  Inspection  Standards  and  Procedures 
Division,  S&T. 

2.  Forward  the  following  to  the  S&T  division  when  S&T 
is  the  "Approving  Authority":  the  establishment's  original  cover 

letter  and  original  proposal,  three  copies  each  of  the  cover 
letter  and  the  proposal,  and  the  completed  FSIS  Form  7630-1. 
Additionally,  indicate  the  RD's  recommendation  for  approval  or 
rejection. 

D.  The  RD  will: 

1.  When  "Approving  Authority,"  evaluate  the  proposal 
and  the  comments  received  on  FSIS  Form  7630-1  and,  if  the 
proposal  is  satisfactory,  approve  it  according  to  directions 
given  in  IX. F.  below. 

a.  File  the  original  documents  comprising  the 
complete  record  in  the  Regional  Office  in  chronological  (date) 
order . 


b.  Forward  copies  of  the  complete  record  to  the 
AS  and  the  IIC  for  filing  in  chronological  (date)  order. 

2 . When  not  "Approving  Authority, " discuss 
information  received  on  FSIS  Form  7630-1  with  the  "Approving 
Authority"  in  S&T. 

E.  S&T  division,  when  "Approving  Authority"  because  of 
expertise  in  the  subject-matter  area,  will  review  the  proposal 
provided  by  the  RD,  using  information  provided  by  the  RD,  MPI 
Regulations,  §§  318.4  and  381.145,  and  other  appropriate 
guidelines.  The  approval  process  will  proceed  as  detailed  in 
IX. F.  below. 

1.  Return  the  original  submittal  to  the  Regional 
Office  for  filing  in  chronological  (date)  order  as  part  of  the 
complete  record. 

2 . Forward  copies  of  the  complete  record  to  the  AS 
and  the  IIC  for  filing  in  chronological  (date)  order. 


Page  5 


NOTE:  The  "complete  record"  referred  to  in  IX.D.l.  and  IX.E.l. 

and  2 . consists  of  the  original  incoming  cover  letter  from  the 
establishment;  the  original  of  the  proposal  stamped  on  every  page 
with  the  word,  "APPROVED,"  and  with  the  date  of  approval;  and  a 
copy  of  the  notification  of  approval. 

F.  Either  the  RD  or  S&T,  when  "Approving  Authority,"  will: 

1.  Approve  any  proposal  without  revisions,  where 

possible . 


a.  Stamp  each  page  of  the  proposed  new,  revised, 
or  amended  PQC  program/procedure  with  the  word  "APPROVED"  and  the 
date  of  approval . 

b.  Prepare  and  send  a letter  to  establishment 
management  stating  that  the  proposal  has  been  approved.  Attach  a 
copy  of  the  proposal  with  the  stamp  of  approval  and  date  of 
approval  on  every  page . 

2 . Approve  any  proposal  with  minor  changes : 

a.  Contact  the  IIC  and/or  establishment 
management  directly  to  discuss  needed  changes. 

b.  Ensure  that  the  establishment  provides  copies 
of  corrected  pages  for  the  proposal,  through  the  IIC,  unless 
otherwise  directed. 

c.  Make  judicious  use  of  pen  and  ink  changes,  if 
agreed  on  by  establishment  management. 

d.  Continue  with  the  approval  process  as 
described  above  in  Paragraph  IX.D.l. 

3 . Deny  any  proposal  that  needs  extensive  revision 
and  provide  formal  notification  to  the  applicant  with  copies  to 
the  AS  and  the  IIC: 

a.  Detail  the  basis  for  denial,  as  required  by 
MPI  Regulations,  §§  318.4  and  381.145. 

b.  Request  that  the  establishment  submit  any 
revisions  directly  to  the  "Approving  Authority"  and  provide  the 
name  and  address  of  the  person  to  whom  the  revisions  should  be 
sent . 


c.  Attach  and  return  the  original  to  the 
establishment  with  copies  of  the  letter  to  the  AS  and  IIC. 


Page  6 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 


NOTE;  Proposed  PQC  programs/procedures  being  either  approved  or 
denied  should  not  be  returned  to  the  establishment  management  by 
any  level  except  the  "Approving  Authority." 


G.  The  RD,  the  AS  and  the  IIC  should  be  careful  when 
inserting  approved  revised  pages  in  all  existing  copies  of  a 
proposal  or  of  an  already  approved  program/procedure . 


1 . 

continuity  of 


Insert  pages  with  changed  wording.  Check 
text  from  prior  pages.  Destroy  voided  pages. 


2 . Ensure : 


a.  Accuracy  of  the  original/copies; 

b.  Maintenance  of  confidentiality  of 
establishment  data; 

c.  Uniformity  of  file  contents;  i.e.,  the  files 
contain  the  complete  "package"  and  are  filed  in  chronological 
(date)  order;  and 


d.  Approval  information  is  entered  in  the  RD's 
QCSYSTEM  database  and,  once  in  the  regional  system,  is 
transmitted  to  the  Headquarters  QCSYSTEM  database. 

X.  TERMINATION  OF  A PQC  PROGRAM/ PROCEDURE 

An  approved  PQC  program  may  be  terminated  at  any  time  by  the 
owner  or  operator  of  the  establishment  upon  written  notice  to  the 
RD.  The  RD  shall  respond  in  writing  to  the  establishment 
official  and  provide  copies  of  the  rescindment  letter  to  the  IIC 
and  AS . 


Administrator 


Attachments 

1- -FSIS  Form  7630-1 

2 - -Lists  of  PQC  Programs/Procedures 


Page  7 
(and  8) 


s 


i: 


“j^  :i6i 


« 


. ,.  ■ .ik 

,c  A 

, 4 ^-1  ■ ■-  "■'  - ^ 54- 

^ h^va:iq^:y  ^cfL^^  r<,  •;:fUrb^^<tJt^v^nm'^^^xq  ■=  ratJOH 

f 3trx44;^»T  ei  JOxi  blv^^as  balcf^t'  - 
”, , ^cjxxcwvi^  enirV-iyqqA*'  »xia  j(i6c>2pe 
* . -■ ‘ ^ ,,  '.>*  ■ . >■ » ; u “.- 

a^rfwf  .‘uie-^  .:>  ed  |>£uofl6  84?  ':|f ' t>dT  .^‘|^  • 

6 =-3'it;|QO  ^a/^4^2Xx3;  i '4  aF  ■ -sp^x ' svtx-*- xi^  ittxsa^ir 

3T[LT&3':t6'^<|\/n£'V£^-‘fq  B^/oxqqfe  j>(£''^3'1cZ-s  itB  Ta 


'>fD  . 9nifc§tr<3V  : zsrff* xw  , ^ t*pimq  , i '* 

bofs-iov^  «iis»o4q wb^t  ^ ^ p LU:t  t irtoai! 


r i 


;flTUS':T3 

^ -.  *»  * ■■  '■  i 

• '*ac.x  ^ »*  THf.' 

2^  •^,tite±.-»na»ii.:c.’'S  lo  ^^risne^Qi^ 


a . : ^ n 

, '"^19 


seXii  3il3  , .s  . i ip  v^*imcii;:tJ  -n 

Isor^CAorroati';)  ni 


'ii 


Eilfij  * ia6x:;^  <-*31^  tb) 

*f.  ■ '«i 


e'-rjif  ieil2  t.i  t>ax0:^^^^'•r  I o 

-2il4a'4  •' 

i3^b  J?3tEVt.24  si3J:i.supb»sj^  o5  -l3f^,?‘ii4faani&X'j  '« 

35irj^p^»<f\ieA*cioa'A  'orriLPfiifiHST  iX 


c 


w‘c'_  ■ vr  . 


3.i:?  Yd  sniit  Y:r£  :2a  B«3J»QLma:J  s»d  y©®  be  d'l^qa  nA'^  ^ 


I 3CU  di  isqd^  ’ lC0fl(i>£ti333:t  dri  J ia  8ai<ic;;5^i?i3F^:?:!Mf. 

•‘■•T  ■ '"  **"-***  •!:•••»  ■’ 

r i: ^4' '•'.’? ' ..J 


- ^ 


?i,  • 


i¥'  • ||  “ ##0 1 ^ . . * -■ 

tSAX\  ^ sz  7 xi$li^fii04 


ii 

^ o ■ji_ 

-%oJ  fc»Td8  li  • klsnt-A  S 


CtV. 


^ , ■, 

Trr^*^  8i  ^ 

suxub seco”)^  Va<na xp^-n ^ i « e J - /.  J-  5 

^nd  *.  •■■■'J..''- 

rv-  ■'■  • .♦  4'^  r£*  fer 


] 


*“*r 

te  >|5fl6.^ 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 
Attachment  1 


Jt-KAMIMENr  AUMK.'JL  ri,Wh 

I • )i  ,lj  ).M-bTt  AND  iNSP(tCTIi')N  bcRVli.H 
fJSPPCTUIN  OPERATlC^NS 

TQC  / PQC  PROGRAM  SUBMITTAL  COVER  SHEET 


INSTRUCTIONS;  Please  complete  all  applicable  items  include  any  additional  comments  or  information  that  snould  be  considered  by  the  approving 
office 

(Check  one) 

I I TOTAL  QUALITY  CONTROL  SYSTEM  (TQCS) 

I I PARTIAL  quality  CONTROL  PROGRAM  (PQC?)  (Indicate  the  type  of  program  being  applied  for  m the  Plant  information  section  below  ) 

I I PROCESSING  PROCEDURE  (Indicate  the  type  of  procedure  being  applied  for  in  the  Plant  Information  section  below  ) 


EST.no.  jp- 

NAME  OF  IIC  (Please  print) 

NAME  OF  CIRCUIT  SUPERVISOR  (Please  print) 

NAME  OF  AREA  OFFICE 

AREA /CIRCUIT  NO. 

NAME  OF  AREA  SUPERmOR  (Please  print) 

PLANT  INFORMATION  ^ 

NAME  OF  PLANT 

ADDRESS;  (Street) 


(City,  State  and  Zip  Code) 


DATE  lie  RECEIVED  REQUEST  FROM  PLANT 


(Check  one) 

CU  NEW  Ell 


TYPE  OF  PROGRAM  / PROCEDURE  BEIN 


PQC /PROCEDURE  NO. 


DESCRIPTIO 


I I APPROVE  - No  additional  comment 
I I APPROVE  - With  comments 


DMENT  EH  REVISION 


R:  (Be  specific:  Note  FSIS  Oireaive  7630. 1,  Rev.  3) 


DATE  ON  PLANTS  COVER  LETTER 


ENDATION 

DISAPPROVE  - Reasons  specified  under  comments 
l~l  OTHER  - Explanation  given  under  comments 


COMMENTS:  (If  needed,  use^^^Mor 

C.Y- 

h aT^parate  sheet  ) 

SIGNATURE  OF  iNSPE<3|||4rCHARGE 

Program/Procedure  must  be  reviewed  and 
forwarded  to  Area  Supervisor  within  S 
working  days  of  dose  IIC  receives 
proposal  from  plant. 

DATE  FORWARDED  TO 
AREA  SUPERVISOR 

AREA  SUPERVISOR'S  RECOMMENDATION 

I I APPROVE  - No  additional  comments 
I I APPROVE  - With  comments 


I I DISAPPROVE  ■ Reasons  specified  under  comments 
I I OTHER  - Explanation  given  under  comments 


COMMENTS:  (If  needed,  use  reverse  or  attach  a separate  sheet.) 


SIGNATURE  OF  AREA  SUPERVISOR 


FSIS  FORM  7630-1  (6/93) 


Program/procedure  mutt  be  revtex/ed  and 
forwarded  to  Regional  Office  within  5 
working  days  of  date  Area  Superriior 
receives  recommendanom  from  IIC. 


DATE  FORWARDED  TO 
REGICNAL  OFFICE 


Page  9 
(and  10) 


;iVlTD3«ip 


?'4  0 . ^ ^ A lu 

' cV' 


.:o<^  y^y. 


A ..-■'It'  4)  « t.  ■ »»  ;■■»»'<■  »*  ■ *<C  >*<r««U!  r ..•>..no««tl]Ct  r^*  «ii»'M1)  *!*'•« 

. 


. .*rc>  •>>•  .■*♦. 

.■  <hr  , ; 


. ■<  »•>  <mJPi 


t ■■•''•  ^tl 


^ - ■ ','*  ’.',  „T, 

, krtQlM  - — ■ . vr^  t rw»H  W^\»  Wg<13n  cjrtS  4 J3 


U > ' mmf.  d*  ^ oO-t  iM  4 ■|-->  i4is>m.  «-»;.  ^ ~l.  1 

*■■  ■*  •>#  • ■•  - >•  *»»*  I HHwm 


tr<«  *C  irtJTAAHH- 


<••**<*•*  IVON*  •‘'rf’-  » 


t>*"  fvO^  ' 

* L>  ' V ? v0^**» 


— Sk. 


> TtMMRx  ■-■^  w»'  fMt.  ••  :fW3iN»i<10 


m C3C9MIK  «9t  1 

» .••V.MrSsJN* 


I vO^' ' -•— »*  V 


'f,*,h\fl-  *,*.  « 


"ill 


L. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 
Attachment  2 

LISTS  OF  PQC  PROGRAMS  AND  APPROVED  PROCEDURES 


I.  List  of  PQC  Programs: 


1} 

NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

110 

Weicrht  Control  means  the  control  of  net  weiaht.  fill 
weight  and  drained  weight  of  a product.  The  weight  may 
be  controlled  and  monitored  by  any  statistically  sound 
and  documentable  method.  [Formerly  titled  "Net  Weight."] 

Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

115 

New 

Scale  Self-Certification  means  the  documented  procedure 

for  the  testing  of  scales  to  assure  they  meet  all 
accuracy  requirements  specified  in  the  NIST  Handbook  44. 
Voluntary.  Washington  approval. 

120 

[Was  "Drained  Weight";  now  in  110,  "Weight  Control."] 

130 

[Was  "Fill  Weight";  now  in  110,  "Weight  Control."] 

140 

[Changed  to  142.] 

142 

Trichinae  Control  by  Process  means  the  control  of 

trichinae  by  heating,  refrigerating,  curing,  or  drying. 
Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

215 

Mechanicallv  Seoarated  (Soecies)  Product (s)  means  the 

control  of  meat  product (s)  obtained  mechanically  from 
beef,  pork,  sheep,  goats,  or  equine  bones.  Mandatory. 
Regional  approval . 

220 

Microbiolocrical  Control  and  Monitorina  Proaram  in  a heat 

processed  product  department  is  an  alternative  to  a 
thorough  mid-shift  cleanup.  This  includes  the  documented 
procedures  for  controlling,  preventing,  or  correcting 
sanitation  deficiencies  and  the  documented  procedures  for 
organoleptic  and  laboratory  evaluation  of  the  sanitation 
deficiencies.  Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

224 

Water  Reuse  includes  the  documented  procedures  for 
utilizing  water  based  fluids  for  more  than  one  product  or 
equipment  exposure.  Conditional.  Washington  approval. 

225 

Mechanicallv  Separated  Poultrv  Product  means  the  control 

of  poultry  meat  product  obtained  mechanically  from 
poultry  bones.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

230 

Pork  Skins  for  Poppina  means  checking  for  hair  roots 

prior  to  or  after  popping  of  pork  skins.  Voluntary. 
Regional  approval . 

Page  11 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

245 

[Was  "Returned  Product";  now  in  840,  "Miscellaneous 
Control . " ] 

250 

Flexible  and  Semiriaid  Retortable  Packaaes  means  the 

approved  thermal  processing  schedules;  product  process 
procedures;  and  procedures  for  maintaining  package 
integrity.  Limited  to  product  covered  by  the  canning 
regulations  and  packed  in  flexible  or  semirigid 
containers.  Conditional.  Washington  approval. 

255 

Aseoticallv  Processed  Products  means  the  control  of 

aseptic  processing  and  packaging  systems  to  produce 
thermally  processed,  shelf  stable  product  (i.e.,  subject 
to  canning  regulations) . Mandatory.  Washington 
approval . 

270 

Foreicrn  Material  means  the  identification,  restraint, 
and  disposition  of  product  containing  materials  such  as 
metal,  plastic,  rubber,  or  glass. 

Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

290 

Boneless  Meat  Reinsoection  means  to  identify,  classify. 

and  control  Acceptable  Quality  Levels  for  defects  in 
boneless  meats  for  manufacturing.  Voluntary.  Regional 
approval . 

295 

New 

Air /Gas  Iniection  means  the  documented  procedure  for 
injecting  air  or  compressed  gas  (carbon  dioxide)  into 
carcasses  or  carcass  parts  during  the  boning  operation  to 
facilitate  boning.  Conditional.  Washington  approval. 

310 

Vicrnette  Labelincr  means  the  control  used  to  verifv  the 
product  complies  with  the  quality  or  product 
characteristics  shown  by  the  graphic  display  on  the 
label.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

320 

Declared  Count  Labelina  means  the  control  used  to  verify 

label  statements  showing  units  of  product  in  the 
container,  either  by  actual  count,  range,  minimum  count, 
or  by  group  of  units.  Must  be  accomplished  by 
statistically  sound  methods.  Voluntary.  Regional 
approval . 

345 

[Eliminated . ] 

350 

[Was  "Combination  Meats  Formulation  Control"  now  in  690, 
"Percent  Labeling  Control."] 

355 

Raw  Product  Fat  and  Moisture  Control  means  the  documented 

procedure  to  ensure  product  compliance  with  maximum 
limitations  on  fat  and  added  water.  Voluntary.  Regional 
approval . 

Page  12 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 
Attachment  2 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

360 

Ground  Beef  Fat  Control  means  the  control  of  blendina  and 

control  of  analytical  fat  in  finished  uncooked  chopped  or 
ground  beef.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

370 

Fresh  Pork  Sausacre  Fat  and  Moisture  means  the  control  of 

analytical  fat  of  the  sausage  and  the  amount  of  added 
water  used  in  the  formulation.  Voluntary.  Regional 
approval . 

385 

Iniection  of  Suspensions  of  Ground  Trimmincrs  into 

New 

Ham/Poultrv/Roast  Beef  Products  means  to  control  the 

manufacturing  of  boneless  ham,  poultry  products,  or  roast 
beef  products.  Conditional.  Regional  Approval. 

393 

[Now  in  396.] 

396 

Addition  of  a Solution  to  Cooked  Beef/Roast  Beef  means  to 

New 

control  the  pumping  and/or  the  massaging  procedures,  and 
yield  of  roast  beef /cooked  beef  to  ensure  that  the  label 
declaration  for  added  substances  is  accurate.  [Note: 

PQC  programs  393  and  397  were  combined  into  this.] 
Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

397 

[Now  396.] 

398 

Pumped  Corned  Beef  means  to  control  the  pumping 

procedures  in  corned  beef  to  ensure  that  the  label 
declaration  for  added  substances  is  accurate. 
Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

402 

Addition  of  Solution  to  Cooked  Corned  Beef  means  to 

control  the  pumping  and/or  the  massaging  procedures  and 
yield  of  corned  beef  to  ensure  that  the  label  declaration 
for  added  substances  is  accurate.  Conditional.  Regional 
approval . 

403 

[Was  "Addition  of  Solution  of  Ascorbic  Acid,  Citric  Acid, 
Erythorbic  Acid,  Sodium  Ascorbate,  and  Sodium  Citrate 
(singly  or  in  combination)  to  Fresh  Pork  Cuts";  now  in 
840,  "Miscellaneous  Control."] 

404 

Addition  of  Solution  to  Pork  Products  means  to  control 

the  pumping,  the  massaging,  procedures  and/or  yield  in 
pork  products  to  ensure  that  the  label  declaration  for 
added  substances  is  accurate.  Conditional.  Regional 
approval . 

Page  13 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

405 

Water-Misted/Ice-Glazed  Meat  and  Poultrv  Products  means 

the  documented  control  procedures  to  demonstrate  that  a 
fine  water  mist  or  ice-glaze  applied  to  a meat  or  poultry 
product  is  sublimed  when  the  product  is  frozen. 
Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

430 

Batter  and  Breadina  means  to  control  the  amount  of  batter 
and/or  breading  applied  as  a coating  around  the  product. 
Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

440 

Bastina/Marination  means  the  control  of  functional 
substances  injected  or  soaked  into  poultry,  not  in  excess 
of  3%  (bone-in)  or  8%  (boned) . Mandatory  for  basted 
product;  Conditional  for  marinated  product.  Regional 
approval . 

442 

Marination  of  Red  Meat  means  the  control  of  substances 

injected  or  soaked  into  red  meat.  Conditional.  Regional 
approval . 

450 

[Was  "Pumped  Poultry";  now  in  455.] 

455 

Addition  of  Solution  to  Poultry  means  the  control  of 

added  substances  absorbed  by  poultry  in  excess  of  limits 
for  marination.  Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

460 

Cooked  Meat  Substitution  means  the  controlled  use  of 

cooked  meat  in  place  of  fresh  or  uncooked  meat . 
Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

480 

Tenderizer  PickuD  means  the  control  of  the  orocess  to 
assure  addition  of  proteolytic  enzyme (s)  and  carrier  does 
not  exceed  3%  of  the  product  weight.  Voluntary. 

Regional  approval . 

501 

New 

Irradiation  Processina  Control  means  the  control  of 

irradiation  processing  of  fresh  or  frozen  uncooked  whole 
poult2Ty  carcasses  or  parts.  Mandatory.  Washington 
approval . 

502 

New 

Irradiation  Control  of  Products  To  Be  Irradiated  means 

the  control  of  pre-labeled  (irradiated)  fresh  or  frozen 
uncooked  whole  poultry  carcasses  or  parts  shipped  to  an 
official  irradiation  facility  to  be  irradiated. 
Mandatory.  Washington  approval. 

520 

Cooked  Sausaae  Fat  and  Added  Water  means  the  control  of 

maximum  permissible  fat  and  added  water  in  the  finished 
product  by  controlling  raw  product,  blending, 
formulation,  cooking  (smoking) , and  chilling.  Voluntary. 
Regional  approval . 

Page  14 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 
Attachment  2 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

540 

Minimum  Meat  Content  Control  means  the  control  of  the 

meat  ingredient  by  weighing  the  quantity  of  meat  in  the 
formulation;  weighing  the  washed  and  drained  weight  of 
the  meat;  or  weighing  the  quantity  of  meat  in  finished 
product  to  meet  minimum  USDA  meat  requirements. 
Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

550 

FNS  Labelina  and  Non-Meat  Labelincr  Control  means  the 

control  of  fat,  formulation,  yield,  portion  weights, 
component  weights,  and  other  label  requirements. 
Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

565 

[Was  "Percent  Meat  Washout";  now  540,  "Minimum  Meat 
Content  Control."] 

670 

Drv  Sausacre  Moisture/Protein  Ratio  means  control  of 

formulation,  fermentation  process  and  analyses  for 
moisture  and  protein  of  the  finished  product.  Voluntary. 
Regional  approval . 

690 

Percent  Labelincr  Control  means  the  documented  procedure 

to  verify  labeling  claims  for  stated  weights  of 
ingredients  or  components  in  a product.  Conditional. 
Regional  approval . 

695 

[Was  "Percent  Labeling  Ingredient  Weight  Control";  now  in 
690,  "Percent  Labeling  Control."] 

720 

Turkev  Ham  Control  means  the  control  of  the  processincr 
and  yield  of  cured  turkey  thigh  meat.  Voluntary. 
Regional  approval . 

725 

Turkev  Ham  and  Water  Products  - X%  Yield  Control  means 

the  control  of  added  ingredients  in  turkey  ham.  The 
yield  may  be  monitored  by  any  means  that  is  documentable 
and  ensures  that  the  X%  is  no  more  than  is  declared  on 
the  label  claim.  Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

740 

Precooked  Breakfast  Sausacre  Yield  Control  means  the 

amount  of  sausage  expressed  on  the  basis  of  the  fresh 
uncooked  sausage.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

770 

Low  Temperature  Renderincr  means  the  control  of  bv- 

products  derived  from  rendering  beef  or  pork  tissue  at 
120 °F.  or  less.  Documented  procedures  for  determining 
compliance  with  raw  material  requirements,  i.e.,  12% 
lean,  are  included.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

Page  15 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

772 

Chemical  Analvsis  in  Lieu  of  the  Knife  Trim  Test  means 

the  control  of  beef  and  pork  trimmings  such  that  chemical 
analysis  can  be  substituted  for  the  knife  trim  test  in 
determining  when  trimmings  contain  at  least  12%  separable 
lean.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

775 

Low  Temoerature  Renderina  for  Exoort  to  Japan  means  the 

control  of  by-products  derived  from  rendering  partially 
defatted  beef  fatty  tissue  at  120°F,  or  less,  for 
shipment  to  Japan.  Documented  procedures  for  determining 
compliance  with  raw  material  requirements,  i.e.,  5%  or 
less  muscle  meat,  are  included.  Conditional.  Regional 
approval . 

lie 

Fat-Reduced  Control  means  the  processincr  controls  for 

New 

manufacturing  fat-reduced  (species) - -FR (S) - -from  beef  and 
pork  fatty  tissue  and  the  analytical  limits  of  the 
finished  product.  Conditional.  Washington  approval. 

780 

[Was  "High  Temperature  Rendering";  now  840, 
"Miscellaneous  Control."] 

815 

PFF  Added  Substance  Control  means  the  control  of  the 

protein  fat  free  portion  of  a cured  pork  product  to 
ensure  the  PFF  content  is  in  compliance  with  the 
standards.  Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

823 

Drv  Cured  Products  means  the  control  of  pork  products 

produced  by  rubbing  the  external  meat  surface  with  curing 
ingredients  to  meet  requirements  in  9 CFR  Part  319. 
Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

825 

Cured  Pork  Products- -Control  of  X%  Added  Inaredients 

means  the  control  of  the  added  ingredients  in  a cured 
pork  product  for  which  a PFF  standard  has  not  been 
established.  The  yield  (X%)  may  be  controlled  by  any 
means  which  is  documentable  and  ensures  the  X%  is  no  more 
than  is  declared  on  the  label.  Mandatory.  Regional 
approval . 

833 

Finished  Product  Inspection  means  procedures  to  ensure 

compliance  with  any  or  all  of  the  requirements  of 
9 CFR  318.309  or  9 CFR  381.309  including  incubation 
testing,  condition-of -container  examinations,  and  the 
handling  of  abnormal  containers/affected  production. 
Voluntary.  Washington  approval. 

835 

Retort  Eouipment  Control  means  the  method  used  to  ensure 

that  retort  equipment  is  adequately  equipped, 
instrumented,  maintained,  and  operated  to  deliver  an 
adequate  process  to  thermally  processed  products. 
Voluntary.  Washington  approval. 

Page  16 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 
Attachment  2 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

840 

Miscellaneous  Control  means  the  documented  procrram  for 

controlling  specific  or  unique  requirements  that  are 
unique  to  limited  situations. 

Voluntary/Conditional/Mandatory . Regional  approval. 

845 

Process  Deviation  Control  for  Canned  Product  means  the 

procedures  developed  by  canning  establishments  for  the 
handling  of  process  deviations  and  control  of  the 
affected  product.  Programs  are  designed  to  significantly 
reduce  official  retention  of  product  and  the  need  to 
handle  deviations  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  318.308  or 
9 CFR  381.308.  Voluntary.  Washington  approval. 

847 

Hermeticallv  Sealed  Container  Coolina  Water  Reuse  means 

the  documented  procedures  for  maintaining  the  quality  of 
reused  container  cooling  water.  Voluntary.  Washington 
approval . 

850 

Perishable,  Uncured  Meat  and  Poultrv  Products  in 

Hermeticallv  Sealed  Containers  means  products  that: 

receive  a heat  treatment  not  sufficient  to  yield  a shelf 
stable  product;  are  packed  in  airtight  containers  such  as 
glass  jars,  metal  cans,  flexible  pouches,  and  plastic 
trays,  bowls  and  cups;  and  bear  a "keep-refrigerated"  or 
similar  label  statement.  Conditional.  Washington 
approval . 

880 

[Was  "Meat  Content";  now  540,  "Minimum  Meat  Content 
Control " . ] 

895 

[Was  "Precooked  Products  Yield  Control";  now  840 
"Miscellaneous  Control."] 

900 

[Was  "Bacon  Yield  Control";  now  840,  "Miscellaneous 
Control . " ] 

905 

[Was  "Broiled  Beef  Patties  Yield  Control";  now  840, 
"Miscellaneous  Control."] 

920 

[Was  "Restructured  Meat  Control";  now  in  840, 
"Miscellaneous  Control."] 

925 

[Was  "Formulated  Bacon"  now  in  840,  "Miscellaneous 
Control . " ] 

Page  17 


NO. 

TITLE  AND  DEFINITION 

927 

Bacon  With  Ud  To  120  oom  Nitrite  means  the  control  of  the 

in-going  nitrite,  ascorbate,  and  other  mandatory 
ingredients  in  the  preparation  of  bacon.  Voluntary  for 
120  ppm  nitrite;  Mandatory  for  less  than  120  ppm  nitrite. 
Regional  approval . 

II.  List  of  Approved  PQC  Procedures: 


260 

Foreian  Material  means  the  identification,  restraint. 

and  disposition  of  product  containing  materials  such  as 
metal,  plastic,  rubber,  or  glass  (FSIS  Directive  7310.4). 
Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

280 

Boneless  Meat  Reinsoection  means  the  identification. 

classification,  and  control  of  Acceptable  Quality  Levels 
for  defects  in  on-line  boneless  meat  manufacturing. 
Voluntary.  Regional  approval. 

330 

Product  Identification  Labeling  means  the  control  used  to 

verify  the  label  claims  pertaining  to  the  source 
material.  Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

345 

Nutritional  Labelina  Verification  means  the  verification 

of  the  accuracy  of  nutritional  information  declared  on 
the  label.  Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

380 

Time /Temperature  Process  Control  means  the  control  of  the 

time  and  temperature  process  used  for  any  non- 
hermetically  sealed  meat  product.  Voluntary.  Regional 
approval . 

390 

Roast  Beef  for  Processina  Control  means  the  documented 

processing  procedure  for  control  of  ingredients, 
time/temperature,  and  other  requirements  of  9 CFR  318.17. 
Mandatory.  Regional  approval. 

395 

Cooked  Beef  for  Processina  Control  means  the  documented 

processing  procedure  for  control  of  time,  temperature, 
humidity,  cooling,  handling  and  other  requirements  of 
9 CFR  318.17.  Mandatory.  Regional  approval. 

400 

Cooked  Corned  Beef  for  Processina  Control  means  the 

documented  processing  procedure  for  control  of  time, 
temperature,  humidity,  cooling,  handling  and  other 
requirements  of  9 CFR  318.17.  Mandatory.  Regional 

approval . 

Page  18 


( 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE  7630.1 
Revision  3 
Attachment  2 


640 

Picklina/oH  Control  means  the  orocedures  used  to  oroduce 
shelf  stable  products  by  controlling  the  pH  of  the 
finished  product  at  4.6  or  lower  through  addition  of 
vinegar  or  other  approved  acidulants,  such  as  citric 
acid.  Such  products  may  contain  other  approved 
ingredients  but  are  NOT  heat  processed.  Voluntary. 
Regional  approval . 

680 

Grade  Labelincr  means  the  control  of  officiallv  crraded 
product  which  is  further  processed  and  labeled  with 
official  grades.  Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

750 

Cooked  Poultrv  Coolincr  means  procedures  used  to  handle 

and  cool  cooked  poultry  (carcass,  halves,  parts)  to 
prescribed  time/temperature  relationships.  Voluntary. 
Regional  approval . 

830 

Miscellaneous  Procedure  Control  means  the  documented 

procedure  for  controlling  specific  requirements  that  are 
unique  to  limited  situations. 

Mandatory/Voluntary/Conditional.  Regional  approval. 

Page  19 


- -jra"  rfTrrawTtt  -’ittyT* 


j — 


■ 'fi, 

,R  . J ,«k 


* ^il8l  '^cJ  l*(|*  ^4Wirt  ^ '■is  i*t‘iia 

h&vmqq^  to  -t£>D^niv^ 


I ’ ^ ;.U«votq» :.«ea:  % irfe5£»£c5g^«f. 
. - H ^^v-.ru. 


|--r^<t  a'^ 


-rfisS^. 


o-fjt  ? i 

■ ’-seor — ly.nyg-r;  "•^■i 

^'jb^^:>fiO:>:l^'4f  ar’Wi.  gajLtoaf  *i 
' fJfaae  i«*a«rt»<l  doJ-ilw,  sau&caq 


~A3£f9Xff  thXStXiC 


'Tt’yy: 


ap-'i;^;afl  (uf?iopa^  l38r 


'flfl^f^M-'  sactiJ  fcataioaeig 

^ ^ • -.  -I- — : tftTic.if»^ 

.-,.  r-’rr^f^z  I3b:l:i?.:.:htia:^--'‘'1-*^^-^-.T''"='~''  - ^ ^ 


oea: 


i • i^w^iSuE:*:*^  ' -ts — — ^,- 

e<xf  ^Afh  > p42 iDs<5%^QlUo  • ^ 

— -^rrtrnrwTii 

.iV  ; < ~ 

‘ t j.  ^.iiiriiTi":  .11.  j^jf " X ■■  -'  - " '"'"^  '' ! 

I th^  labc.:  ■ ■Jonc^r^ioratX.  ; 

n*'  ^lcL^'^ISZXc!.^^l-tA^fi-i‘X^'>^-r^ga6  Gfafcf  ■’■  ■ y ' tifjth* 

II  i t . *»  tfitsi  Lei35":i  utare..-^oc-ea»  ^:.ih^  t 4»„r  : ca*  ^ 

1^  ! ^er.*'•t ictfllr  -^tr.;ic4  M*:  /Totf*  ^.'-  • ly . 


4^^r?; 

2$^  t acj>*8t;  aeit,  cpx^£^-<^'  . sti^s-^ao 


9$ 


cniilttr' 


«»r ««.  tUI  . 4pcua-?  t e i 

\ -" 


P'r<^ : ;cw%<lu‘t  Cor  <rcafT^-  oil  t 

htjfffi  i 5ii0 V ,,  < • -*>o  .'.(•■  ?u>lA  • • ■jtiiOfr'  ' 

£»  'CFil,  tls  ' f r y^^■:  ii-:.‘zl 


-‘\*  « -i^;;  5>^-*'uv-ft  ^p*.  .♦. -tf  Cv  _o* 

■h.ynidxty,  ?<3PiIv'*9>  to*  <1.  # ‘ 

7wir.«ffM>tst.  *:f  I CfH  i:a-S7i  ' Mih  qo^  ol  ' 


:ii£ 


T *?y#»i..- 


.lua 


1‘i-j 


.1 


<t 


)£ 


:V 


lb 


^ U 5 S F' 
/ f 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


8091.1 


- - 10/22/01 


I. 


PROCEDURES  FOR  THE  FSIS  HEALTH  HAZARD  EVALUATION  B&ARD 

-'9 

. ^ "■  t .'T*. 

PURPOSE  ^ 


This  directive  explains  the  duties  of  the  FSIS  Health  Hazard  Evaluation  Board  (HHEB) 
and  the  procedures  the  HHEB  follows  when  evaluating  meat,  poultry,  and  egg  products 
to  determine  whether  their  consumption  may  pose  a human  health  risk. 


II.  CANCELLATION 


FSIS  Directive  10,530.3,  Contamination  Response  System  (CRS)  dated  3/23/93. 


III.  [RESERVED] 

IV.  REFERENCES 


The  Meat,  Poultry,  and  Egg  Products  Inspection  Regulations. 


FSIS  Directive  8080.1,  Revision  3 - Recall  of  Meat  and  Poultry  Products. 


V.  POLICY 

Under  the  HACCP  system  regulations  at  9 CFR  § 417.1 , a food  safety  hazard  is  any 
biological,  chemical,  or  physical  property  that  may  cause  a food  to  be  unsafe  for  human 
consumption.  Biological  hazards  are  infectious  agents  (including  living  organisms  and 
prion  proteins)  that  can  make  food  unsafe  to  eat.  Chemical  hazards  can  be  either 
naturally-occurring  or  added.  Physical  hazards  are  extraneous  materials  that  are  not 
expected  in  a food  that  may  cause  illness  or  injury. 


DISTRIBUTION:  Washington  Offices;  Technical 
Service  Center;  District  Offices 


OPI:  OPPDE 


VI.  What  is  the  HHEB  and  what  is  its  purpose? 

A.  The  HHEB  will  be  the  primary  group  that  reviews  the  public  health  significance  i 
of  any  human  health  hazard  about  which  a regulatory  decision  needs  to  be  made  by  the 
Agency. 

B.  The  purpose  of  the  HHEB  is  twofold.  First,  when  there  is  reason  to  be 
concerned,  but  no  definitive  determination,  as  to  whether  a product  that  is  about  to 
enter  or  has  entered  commerce  may  be  injurious  to  health,  the  HHEB  would  be  called 
upon  to  assess  the  nature  and  severity  of  the  hazard  and  to  provide  information  to  the 
Agency  for  an  Agency  decision  on  regulatory  action,  (e.g.,  withhold  the  marks  of 
inspection,  request  a recall,  detention  or  seizure  of  product).  Second,  the  HHEB  would 
be  called  upon  in  other  than  emergent  situations  to  provide  an  assessment  of  product 
safety  (e.g.,  an  assessment  regarding  the  toxicity  of  a foreign  material  found  in 
product).  The  HHEB  does  not  decide  on  or  recommend  regulatory  or  other  action  but 
provides  information  for  such  decisions  or  recommendations. 

C.  The  HHEB  will  rapidly  communicate  information  from  its  meetings  concerning  a 
human  health  hazard  to  the  Deputy  Administrator,  Office  of  Public  Health  and  Science 
(see  section  X of  this  Directive). 

VII.  Who  comprises  and  leads  the  HHEB? 

A.  The  HHEB  is  an  ad  hoc  committee  composed  of  representatives  from  various 
offices  within  FSIS.  The  Director  of  the  Human  Health  Sciences  Division  (HHSD),  Office  ( 
of  Public  Health  and  Science  (OPHS),  at  the  request  of  the  Administrator,  Associate 
Administrator,  or  any  Deputy  Administrator,  convenes  and  chairs  the  HHEB.  The 

HHEB  may  include  physicians,  health  scientists,  microbiologists,  toxicologists, 
veterinarians,  chemists,  program  analysts,  epidemiologists,  food  technologists,  and 
other  relevant  experts  from  within  FSIS. 

B.  The  minimum  membership  of  the  HHEB  will  include  one  physician,  one 
epidemiologist,  and  one  representative  from  the  Office  of  Policy,  Program  Development 
and  Evaluation. 

C.  Other  government  (either  Federal  or  State)  experts  from  outside  FSIS  or 
one  non-governmental  expert  (for  example  from  academia,  non-governmental 
scientists,  public  health  experts  or  from  industry  that  is  not  tied  to  the  specific  problem) 
may  also  be  called  to  participate,  when  appropriate. 


2 


{ 


FSIS  Directive  8091.1 


VIII.  When  is  the  HHEB  convened? 

A.  The  HHEB  is  convened  at  the  request  of  the  Administrator,  Associate 
Administrator,  or  any  Deputy  Administrator  when  the  Agency  is  presented  with  a 
situation  in  which  a human  health  hazard  needs  to  be  evaluated.  The  need  may  be 
raised  by  the  FSIS  Administrator;  FSIS  staff  members,  including  the  Technical  Service 
Center  and  Field  Operations  Staff;  the  FSIS  Recall  Committee;  or  industry.  The  official 
requesting  the  HHEB  will  provide  the  chair  of  the  HHEB  with  a written  statement  of  the 
human  health  Impact  assessment  needed  for  an  Agency  decision. 

B.  The  HHEB  does  not  meet  on  matters  that  are  covered  by  an  e^dsting  Agency 
precedent  (e.g.,  an  FSIS  regulation).  However,  an  appropriately  empowered  Agency 
official  (the  Administrator,  Associate  Administrator,  or  any  Deputy  Administrator)  may 
decide  that  it  is  appropriate  to  have  the  HHEB  reconsider  an  existing  precedent. 

C.  Decisions  of  the  HHEB  on  the  nature  and  severity  of  a hazard  or  the  safety  of 
a product  will  be  made  on  a consensus  basis.  (Consensus  is  to  be  among  the 
members  of  the  HHEB  with  a scientific  background.) 

IX.  How  does  the  HHEB  conduct  its  evaluations? 

A.  When  the  HHEB  conducts  an  evaluation  of  a health  hazard  that  may  be 
presented  by  a product,  it  will  assess: 

1 . any  disease  or  injuries  that  have  already  occurred  from  the  ingestion  of  the 
product. 

2.  the  potential  health  hazard  to  relevant  segments  of  the  population,  including 
children,  immuno-compromised  persons,  or  the  elderly  who  are  expected  to  be 
exposed  to  the  product  being  considered,  with  particular  attention  paid  to  the 
hazard  to  those  individuals  who  may  be  at  greatest  risk. 

3.  the  degree  of  seriousness  of  the  health  hazard  to  which  the  populations  at  risk 
would  be  exposed. 

4.  the  likelihood  of  occurrence  of  the  hazard. 

5.  the  consequences  (immediate  or  long-range)  of  occurrence  of  the  hazard. 

NOTE;  It  is  not  the  purpose  of  the  HHEB  to  duplicate  the  processes  of  the  Recall 
Committee,  nor  is  it  the  purpose  of  the  HHEB  to  participate  in  every  meeting  associated 
with  every  potential  food  product  recall. 


3 


X.  How  and  to  whom  will  the  HHEB  report  its  findings? 

The  HHEB  provides  a concise  written  summary  of  its  deliberations,  signed  by  the  Chair 
(with  members  listed),  to  the  Deputy  Administrator,  OPHS.  Supporting  documentation 
is  submitted  as  appendices  to  the  summary  if  needed.  The  Deputy  Administrator, 
OPHS,  will  provide  the  written  summary  to  the  appropriate  decision-maker,  (e.g.. 
Administrator,  Associate  Administrator,  or  Deputy  Administrator)  for  consideration. 


Office  of  Policy,  Program  Development 
And  Evaluation 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
5601  Sunnyside  Avenue,  Mail  Drop  5241 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-5241 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 
POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 


USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


9040.1 
Rev.  2 


8/12/93 


REINSPECTION  OF  PRODUCT  INTENDED  FOR  EXPORT 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  responsibilities  and  procedures  for 
reinspecting  and  certifying  product  for  export.  These 
responsibilities  and  procedures  apply  whether  the  product  is 
located  at  the  establishment  where  produced,  or  off  site,  such  as 
in  a cold  storage  facility. 


II.  CANCELLATION 

FSIS  Directive  9040.1,  Revision  1,  dated  10/20/86. 


III.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE 

These  procedures  have  been  revised  to  eliminate  the  requirement 
that  cartons  intended  for  export  be  opened  and  the  product 
observed  by  the  inspector  if  visual  examination  of  the  lot  shows 
no  signs  of  damage  from  product  handling  or  storage.  For  this 
reason,  this  directive  has  been  rewritten.  This  directive  will 
remain  in  force  until  the  Export  Certification  Information  System 
is  implemented  by  International  Programs. 

IV.  REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  318.2,  322.2  and  381.105 

FSIS  Directive  7520.2,  dated  5/12/88  and  Amend.  1,  dated  9/8/88 

FSIS  Directive  9020.1,  dated  5/15/84 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors , DPI:  IP/PDD 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


V. 


POLICY 


Exporters  requesting  USDA  certification  for  product  intended  for 
export  must  agree  prior  to  the  certification  that  the  product 
will  be  subject  to  reinspection  before  being  exported,  so  that 
the  product's  identity  and  eligibility  for  export  may  be 
determined.  FSIS  may  perform  more  in-depth  reinspection 
procedures  at  any  time  in  response  to  complaints  from  countries 
receiving  United  States  product. 


VI . RESPONSIBILITIES 

A.  The  exporter  must: 

1.  Complete  FSIS  Form  9060-6,  Application  for  Export, 
to  request  product  reinspection  and  certification  for  export,  and 

2.  Arrange  for  the  inspector  to  reinspect  the  lot  and, 
if  the  inspector  determines  it  is  necessary,  remove  those 
samples,  as  directed  by  the  inspector,  from  the  lot. 

B.  For  reinspection  purposes,  a "lot"  of  meat  or  poultry 
must  represent  only  one  type  of  product  and  originate  from  one 
establishment.  It  may,  however,  consist  of  different  sizes  of 
the  same  item. 

C.  The  inspector  will: 

1.  Assure  that  all  products  meet  MPI  Regulations  and 
importing  countries'  requirements,  and 

2.  Perform  a sensory  evaluation  of  the  lot,  as 
specified  in  Paragraph  VII  of  this  directive,  prior  to 
certification,  to  determine  the  lot's  eligibility  for  export. 

The  inspector  should  be  particularly  alert  for  signs  of  off- 
condition  product  or  evidence  of  improper  handling  or  storage. 


VII.  INSPECTION  PROCEDURES 

A.  Fresh  Meat  and  Poultry  Products  (Frozen  and  Unfrozen) 
and  Processed  Meat  and  Poultry  Products 

1.  When  certifying  inspected  and  passed  fresh  meat  and 
poultry  products  (frozen  and  unfrozen)  or  processed  meat  and 
poultry  products  for  export,  the  inspector  will  organoleptically 
examine  shipping  cartons  in  the  lot  for  signs  of  poor  product 
handling  and  storage  (e.g.,  torn,  damp  or  damaged  cartons; 
off-condition  odor) . 


Page  2 


/ 

FSIS  Directive  9040.1 
Revision  2 


2 . If  the  lot  DOES  NOT  show  signs  of  poor  product 
handling  and  storage,  the  shipping  cartons  will  be  stamped  with 
the  export  mark  and  FSIS  Form  9060-5,  Meat  and  Poultry  Export 
Certificate  of  Wholesomeness,  will  be  issued. 

3.  If  the  lot  DOES  show  signs  of  poor  product  handling 
and  storage,  the  inspector  will: 

a.  open  a maximum  of  10  affected  shipping  cartons, 

b.  if  frozen,  temper  or  thaw  all  individual 
packages  in  the  carton,  and 

c.  check  the  product  for  soundness  and 
wholesomeness . 

4.  Certain  products  must  be  handled  as  follows: 

a.  Bulk-packed  products  such  as  pork  livers, 
boneless  beef,  poultry  giblets  and  fat  must  be  completely 
defrosted  or  a sample  unit  cut  from  the  center  of  the  product  and 
completely  defrosted. 

b.  Whole  poultry  carcasses,  poultry  parts  or  tray 
packs  must  be  sufficiently  tempered  to  allow  for  examination. 

5.  If  the  product  is  found  to  be  sound  and  wholesome, 
the  inspector  will  allow  repackaging  of  all  affected  cartons,  at 
the  packer's  option.  Repackaging  will  be  done  under  Inspection 
Operations  (10)  program  supervision  under  the  provisions  of 
FSIS's  voluntary  Identification  Service,  at  the  packer's  cost. 
Following  repackaging,  the  establishment  should  stamp  the 
shipping  cartons  with  the  export  mark. 

6.  If  the  product  is  NOT  sound  or  wholesome,  the 
inspector  will  retain  the  lot  and  notify  the  10  supervisor. 

B.  Canned  Product 

1.  When  certifying  inspected  and  passed  canned  product 
for  export,  the  inspector  will  visually  examine  all  shipping 
cartons  in  the  lot  for  signs  of  poor  product  handling  and  storage 
(e.g. , torn,  damp,  or  damaged  shipping  cartons/ immediate 
containers) . 


Page  3 


2.  If  the  lot  DOES  NOT  show  signs  of  poor  product 
handling  and  storage,  the  shipping  cartons  will  be  stamped  with 
the  export  mark  and  FSIS  Form  9060-5,  Meat  and  Poultry  Export 
Certificate  of  Wholesomeness,  will  be  issued. 

3.  If  the  lot  DOES  show  signs  of  poor  product  handling 
and  storage,  a condition  of  container  examination  will  be 
performed  by  the  inspector  in  accordance  with  FSIS  Directive 
7520.2,  Amend.  1,  dated  9/8/88,  and  as  directed  by  the  10 
supervisor. 


VIII.  QUESTIONS 

Questions  regarding  export  certification  procedures  should  be 
referred  to  the  Export  Coordination  Division,  International 
Programs,  (202)  720-9051. 


Deputy  Administrator 
Inspection  Operations 


page 


o 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


MAILED  AT 
BALTIMORE.  MD 
DROP  SHIPMENT 
• AUTHORIZATIOIM  26 
PRESORTED  FIRST-CLASS 


US. OFFICIAL  MAIL 


37/403MPSLD 1594  R1 


103-0001 
E2 

US  DEPT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  i NUTRI  INFORMATION  CNTR 
NAT'L  AGRI  LIBRARY,  RM  304 
BELTSVILLE  MD  20705-2351 


FIRST  CLASS  MAIL 


t nn 


I H I } I i i J n i 1 n 1 i i n n 1 i I n I i u 1 


aTS1975.U538 


AXES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 

. ' ■ ■ WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


' o 


10,010.1, 

Revision  1 


3/31/04 


MICROBIOLOGICAL  TESTING  PROGRAM  AND  OTHER  VERIFICATION  ACTIVITIES 
FOR  Escherichia  coii  0157:H7  IN  RAW  GROUND  BEEF  PRODUCTS  AND  RAW 
GROUND  BEEF  COMPONENTS  AND  BEEF  PATTY  COMPONENTS 

NOTE:  FSIS  PESONNEL  ARE  NOT  TO  IMPLEMENT  THIS  DIRECTIVE  UNTIL 
MAY  17,  2004 

Part  I - General 

I.  PURPOSE 


This  directive  provides  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  inspection 
program  personnel,  program  investigators,  and  import  inspection  personnel  instructions 
for  sampling  raw  beef  products  as  part  of  verification  testing  for  Escherichia  coii 
0157:H7  (E.  coii  0157:H7)  to  ensure  the  protection  of  public  health.  It  also  outlines 
actions  FSIS  will  take  when  a raw  ground  beef  product  sample,  raw  ground  beef 
component  sample,  or  raw  beef  patty  component  sample  is  found  to  be  positive  for  E. 
co// 01 57:H7.  Attachment  1 provides  questions  and  answers  for  further  clarification. 


II.  CANCELLATION 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  dated  2/1/98 
FSIS  Notice  11-03,  dated  4/18/03 
FSIS  Notice  47-02,  dated  11/20/02 


III.  REASONS  FOR  REISSUANCE 

This  directive  has  been  rewritten  in  its  entirety  to  be  consistent  with  the  Agency’s 
current  policies  regarding  E.  coii  0157:H7.  No  establishment  that  produces  raw  ground 
beef  products,  raw  ground  beef  components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components  will  be 
exempt  from  FSIS  sampling  and  testing  for  E.  coii  0157:H7.  This  directive  provides 
new  instructions:  1 ) for  the  policy  that  non-intact  raw  beef  products  contaminated  with 
E.  coii  0157:H7  are  adulterated;  2)  for  follow-up  actions  taken  after  an  initial  FSIS 
sample  tests  positive;  and  3)  for  verifying  the  control  of  beef  products  that  are 
presumptive  positive  or  positive  for  E.  coii  0157:H7. 


DISTRIBUTION;  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors; 

Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  TSC;Import  Offices 


OPI:  OPPD 


IV.  REFERENCES 


Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act 

9 CFR  318.2,  325.10,  416,  417,  and  500 

FSIS  Directives  5000.1,  Revision  1,  5000.2,  and  8080.1,  Revision  3 

Federal  Register  Notices:  Policy  on  Beef  Products  Contaminated  with  E.  coli 
0157:H7  (64  FR  2803,  1/19/99);  Recent  Developments  Regarding  Beef  Products 
Contaminated  with  Escherichia  co// 0157:H7;  Public  Meeting  (65  FR  6881, 2/11/00); 
Availability  of  and  Request  for  Comment  on  FSIS  Draft  Risk  Assessment  for 
Escherichia  coli  0157:H7  in  Ground  Beef  (66  FR  55912,  1 1/05/01);  and  E.  coli 
0157:H7  Contamination  of  Beef  Products  (67  FR  62325,  10/7/02). 

V.  BACKGROUND 

Non-intact  raw  beef  products  contaminated  with  E.  coli  0157:H7  are  adulterated. 
Non-intact  beef  products  include  ground  beef;  beef  that  has  been  injected  with 
solutions;  beef  that  has  been  mechanically  tenderized  by  needling,  cubing,  Frenching, 
or  pounding  devices;  and  beef  that  has  been  reconstructed  into  formed  entrees.  Intact 
raw  beef  products  contaminated  with  E.  coH  0157:H7  that  are  intended  to  be  processed 
into  non-intact  products  are  also  adulterated.  Establishment  records  and  HACCP 
documents  (e.g.,  the  flow  chart  and  hazard  analysis)  should  Identify  the  intended  use  of 
intact  raw  beef  products.  Manufacturing  trimmings  (e.g.,  pieces  of  meat  remaining  after 
steaks,  roasts,  and  other  intact  cuts  are  removed)  are  an  example  of  intact  raw  beef 
product  that  may  be  intended  to  be  used  for  non-intact  product.  Raw  beef  products 
contaminated  with  E.  coli  0157:H7  may,  however,  be  further  processed  at  official 
establishments  to  destroy  the  pathogen. 

On  October  7,  2002,  FSIS  published  a notice  requiring  establishments  that  had 
not  already  reassessed  their  Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Control  Point  (HACCP)  plans 
for  raw  beef  products  in  light  of  relevant  E.  coli  0157:H7  data  to  do  so  to  determine 
whether  E.  coli  0157:H7  contamination  was  reasonably  likely  to  occur  in  their 
production  process  for  raw  beef  products  (67  FR  62329).  In  that  notice,  FSIS  advised 
that  it  intended  to  scrutinize  very  closely  the  hazard  analyses  and  HACCP  plans  of 
those  slaughter  or  deboning  establishments  that  had  conducted  a reassessment  and 
decided  that  an  intervention  was  not  necessary.  Also  In  that  notice,  FSIS  stated  that 
establishments  receiving  product  for  grinding  should  address  E.  coli  0157:H7.  FSIS 
explained  that  these  establishments  could  employ  validated  Critical  Control  Points 
(CCPs)  in  their  HACCP  plans  to  address  E.  co// 01 57:H7,  or  the  establishments  could 
incorporate  purchase  specifications  In  their  HACCP  plans.  Sanitation  Standard 
Operating  Procedures  (Sanitation  SOPs),  or  other  prerequisite  programs  to  prevent  E. 
coli  0157:H7-contaminated  product  from  entering  their  establishments. 

This  directive  focuses  on  raw  ground  beef  products  and  the  beef  products  that 
are  used  to  produce  raw  ground  beef  products.  These  products  will  be  the  focus  of 
FSIS’  verification  sampling  program  for  E.  coli  0157:H7.  Products  that  FSIS  may 
sample  are  listed  in  Parts  II  and  VI. 


2 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


This  directive  discusses  the  significance  of  a finding  that  a sample  is 
“presumptive  positive.”  A sample  is  presumptive  positive  when  analytical  steps  of 
microbiological  analysis  indicate  the  strong  possibility  that  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  present, 
but  additional  steps  are  needed  to  confirm  the  presence  or  absence  of  the  organism. 

A sample  is  confirmed  to  contain  the  bacterial  isolate  of  E.  coli  0157:H7  through 
testing  by  either  FSIS  or  non-FSIS  laboratories  when  biochemical,  serological,  or 
genetic  testing  results  in  a finding  of  E.  co// Serotype  0157:H7,  0157:H7:NM 
(nonmotile),  or  0157:H7-indeterminate. 

FSIS  recognizes  that  many  establishments  test  their  raw  ground  beef  products, 
raw  ground  beef  components,  and  raw  beef  patty  components  for  E.  coli  0157:H7.  The 
Agency  applauds  and  encourages  this  practice.  FSIS  points  out,  however,  that  If  an 
establishment  finds  a sample  of  one  of  these  products  to  be  presumptive  positive  for  E. 
coli  0157:H7,  that  product  would  only  be  allowed  to  move  off  site  under  appropriate 
controls  for  proper  disposition  at  official  establishments,  landfill  operations,  or 
renderers.  If  the  establishment’s  confirmation  testing  finds  the  sample  negative  for  the 
pathogen,  that  product  may  be  shipped  in  commerce  under  normal  procedures. 

Product  that  is  confirmed  positive  for  E.  co// 01 57:H7,  through  FSIS  or  establishment 
testing,  may  also  be  moved  off  site  under  appropriate  controls  for  proper  disposition.  If 
product  is  confirmed  positive,  or  is  presumptive  positive  and  no  additional  testing 
confirmed  the  product  negative,  such  product  destined  for  an  official  establishment  for 
further  processing  that  will  destroy  the  pathogen  would  have  to  move  under  company 
control  (e.g.,  through  company  seals)  or  under  FSIS  control  (e.g.,  under  USDA  seal  or 
accompanied  by  FSIS  Form  7350-1).  Such  product  destined  for  a landfill  operation  or 
renderer  would  have  to  move  under  company  control. 

According  to  9 CFR  325.10,  If  product  is  found  to  be  adulterated  or  misbranded 
after  it  has  been  transported  from  an  official  establishment,  transportation  back  to  the 
establishment  that  originally  produced  the  product  or  to  another  official  establishment 
must  be  authorized.  According  to  9 CFR  318.2(d),  inspection  program  personnel  must 
place  a U.S.  retained  tag  at  the  time  of  reinspection  on  all  products  suspected  of  being 
adulterated.  FSIS  will  allow  product  that  is  positive  or  presumptive  positive  for  E.  coli 
0157:H7  to  move  under  company  control  (e.g.,  through  company  seals)  or  under  FSIS 
control  (e.g.,  under  USDA  seal  or  accompanied  by  FSIS  Form  7350-1),  rather  than  as 
required  in  9 CFR  325.10  and  318.2(d)  to  facilitate  proper  disposition  of  product  that 
may  be  adulterated  with  E.  coli  0157:H7.  FSIS  Intends  to  modify  these  regulations  to 
reflect  this  policy. 


3 


Part  II  --  Inspection  Program  Personnel  Responsibilities  for  Collecting 
Raw  Ground  Beef  Product  Samples  from  Official  Establishments 

A.  What  comprises  raw  ground  beef  products? 

Raw  Ground  Beef  Products:  Raw  ground  or  chopped  beef,  hamburger,  ground 
or  chopped  veal,  veal  or  beef  patties,  and  patty  mix.  A raw  ground  beef  product  that 
contains  any  amount  of  beef  product  derived  from  advanced  meat  recovery  (AMR) 
systems  is  considered  a raw  ground  beef  product.  Raw  product  comprised  only  of  beef 
from  AMR  systems  is  not  considered  a raw  ground  beef  product.  Raw  product 
comprised  only  of  beef  from  AMR  systems  is  considered  a raw  ground  beef  component 
or  raw  beef  patty  component  (see  Part  VI  of  this  directive).  Ground  or  chopped 
products  made  from  both  beef  and  other  meat  or  poultry  products  and  beef  sausage 
products  are  not  subject  to  FSIS’  E.  co// 01 57:H7  sampling  and  testing. 

B.  How  is  raw  ground  beef  product  sampling  conducted  at  official 
establishments? 

1 . When  the  Office  of  Public  Health  and  Science  (OPHS)  schedules  samples  to 
be  taken  at  an  establishment,  OPHS  will  send  the  Inspector-in-Charge  (IIC)  FSIS  Form 
10,210-3,  “Requested  Sample  Programs.”  OPHS  will  send  the  form  electronically  in  the 
near  future.  Specific  information  for  the  sample  to  be  collected  will  be  included  on  the 
sample  request  or  in  revisions  to  FSIS  Directive  10,210.1,  under  the  appropriate 
project. 

2.  Inspection  program  personnel  may  be  instructed  to  collect  more  than  one 
sample  per  lot  in  certain  circumstances  (e.g.,  if  FSIS  has  reason  to  believe  that  product 
is  at  high  risk  of  being  contaminated  with  E.  co// 01 57:H7  because  of  illnesses  or 
outbreaks  that  may  have  been  associated  with  the  establishment,  or  because  the 
establishment  or  its  suppliers  have  previously  produced  product  that  tested  positive  in 
FSIS-collected  verification  samples  for  E.  co// 01 57;H7). 

3.  Before  collecting  samples,  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  notify  official 
establishment  management  that  they  will  be  collecting  a sample  and  are  to  provide 
enough  time  for  the  establishment  to  hold  the  sampled  lot.  Inspection  program 
personnel  are  to  inform  the  establishment  of  the  reason  they  are  taking  the  sample 
(e.g.,  routine  FSIS  verification  testing,  follow-up  sampling  in  response  to  an  E.  coli 
0157:H7  positive,  traceback  sampling,  or  follow-up  sampling  in  response  to  an  E.  coli 
0157:H7  outbreak). 

4.  Inspection  program  personnel  collect  samples  from  the  current  day’s 
production,  and  the  samples  should  be,  whenever  possible,  in  their  final  packages. 
Samples  should  not  be  sent  to  the  laboratory  until  the  establishment  has  completed 
pre-shipment  review  for  that  lot.  If  product  from  final  packages  is  not  available  for 
sampling,  inspection  program  personnel  should  collect  an  aseptic  sample.  Products 
should  be  held  under  security  following  established  Agency  controls. 


4 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


5.  If  a sample  must  be  held  overnight,  it  must  be  refrigerated.  If  a sample  must 
be  held  longer  than  overnight,  it  must  be  frozen. 

6.  After  the  establishment  completes  the  pre-shipment  review,  inspection 
program  personnel  should  prepare  the  sample  to  be  sent  to  the  laboratory  on  the  first 
available  Federal  Express  pick-up. 

Part  III  - Supplier  Information 

A.  What  actions  does  FSIS  take  when  there  is  an  FSIS  presumptive  E.  co/i 
0157:H7  positive  for  a raw  ground  beef  product  sample? 

1 . Every  FSIS  verification  sample  that  is  eventually  confirmed  positive  by  FSIS 
for  E.  coli  0157:H7  goes  through  three  stages  of  analysis.  The  results  of  each  stage 
are  reported  to  IIC’s  on  LEARN.  These  samples  are  initially  screened  and,  as 
appropriate,  are  reported  as  “Potential  Positives.”  At  the  next  stage,  based  on 
laboratory  results,  some  samples  are  reported  as  “Presumptive  Positives.”  Because 
most  “Presumptive  Positives”  are  eventually  confirmed,  the  contact  person  in  the 
District  where  the  establishment  is  located  needs  to  Immediately  Inform  the 
establishment  that  the  sample  is  a “Presumptive  Positive.”  At  the  same  time,  the 
District  contact  person  also  informs  the  establishment  management  that  if  the  results 
are  confirmed  positive,  FSIS  will  collect  the  following  information  regarding  the  suppliers 
of  the  source  materials  used  in  the  production  of  the  product  (9  CFR  320.1): 

a.  name  of  the  supplying  establishment,  point  of  contact  (name,  title,  e-mail 
address,  and  fax  number),  and  phone  number  of  supplying  establishment; 

b.  supplier  lot  number;  and 

c.  production  date,  name  of  supplied  material,  and  any  additional  information  to 
clearly  identify  the  material  used  to  the  management  of  the  supplying  establishment. 

2.  If  the  source  materials  are  from  a foreign  establishment,  the  District  contact 
person  should  inform  the  establishment  that  FSIS  will  also  collect  the  following 
information,  should  the  product  be  confirmed  positive  for  E.  co// 0157:H7: 

a.  country  of  origin; 

b.  foreign  establishment  number; 

c.  shipping  mark; 

d.  l-house;  and 


5 


e.  barcoding  or  any  other  information  that  identifies  the  origin  of  the  product. 

3.  The  District  contact  person  advises  the  establishment  that  it  should  begin  to 
gather  the  information  above,  along  with  distribution  information. 

B.  What  information  does  FSIS  collect  when  a raw  ground  beef  product 
sample  collected  by  FSIS  for  verification  testing  at  an  official  establishment  is 
confirmed  positive  for  E.  co// 0157:H7,  and  whom  does  FSIS  notify  concerning 
the  positive? 

1.  When  a sample  is  confirmed  positive,  inspection  program  personnel  collect 
from  the  establishment  the  information  in  Part  III.  A.  Inspection  program  personnel 
make  note  of  any  information  that  the  establishment  is  unable  to  provide. 

2.  Inspection  program  personnel  forward  the  information  by  e-mail  to  the 
designated  DO  contact,  with  a “cc”  to  the  front-line  supervisor. 

3.  The  DO  will  access  the  System  Tracking  E.  co// 01 57:H7  - Positive  Suppliers 
(STEPS),  open  a case  file  for  the  incident,  and  follow  STEPS  procedures. 

4.  STEPS  automatically  e-mails  the  DO  that  has  jurisdiction  over  the  supplying 
establishment.  The  DO  notifies  the  NO  at  the  supplying  establishment  to  perform  a 
HACCP  02  and  other  activities  described  in  Part  VI. 

5.  The  DO  notifies  all  of  the  supplying  establishments  in  the  District,  by 
telephone,  of  the  positive  finding  and  provides  the  suppliers  the  production  date  for  the 
product  that  the  supplier  provided  to  the  grinder,  the  lot  number  of  the  supplied  product, 
and  other  information  that  would  be  useful  to  the  supplier  to  help  identify  the  E.  coli 
0157:H7  positive  lot.  The  DO  documents  the  date  and  time  of  this  oral  notification  in 
the  STEPS  system. 

6.  After  all  necessary  information  on  the  supplying  establishment  has  been 
entered  into  the  STEPS  system,  the  DO  reviews  the  Information  in  the  STEPS  system 
and  sends  an  e-mail  notification  to  the  supplier  about  the  E.  coli  0157:H7  positive 
product. 

7.  The  supplier  information  is  maintained  within  the  STEPS  system  and  is 
maintained  on  FSIS’  network.  Users  must  be  given  access  to  this  site. 

NOTE:  If  the  confirmed  positive  sample  came  from  product  which  was  made,  in  whole 
or  in  part  from  imported  product,  the  DO  provides  information  about  the  supplier  to  the 
Office  of  International  Affairs  (OIA),  Import-Export  Programs  Staff,  by  telephone,  and 
documents  the  date  and  time  of  this  oral  notification  in  the  STEPS  system.  The  DO 
then  provides  Information  about  the  supplier  to  OIA,  Import-Export  Programs  Staff, 
through  an  e-mail  message  to  importexport@fsis.usda.gov.  OIA,  in  turn,  forwards  this 
information  to  the  head  of  the  inspection  service  in  the  country  where  the  supplying 
establishment  is  located. 


6 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


Part  IV  - Enforcement  Actions  in  Official  Establishments 

A.  What  actions  do  inspection  program  personnel  take  if  an  FSIS  sample 
taken  from  an  official  establishment  is  confirmed  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7? 

1.  The  DO  is  notified  of  a positive  through  the  Biological  Information  Transfer 
and  E-mail  System  (BITES). 

2.  Inspection  program  personnel,  the  DO,  and  Recall  Management  Staff  (RMS) 
work  together  to  determine  the  necessity  of  product  retention,  detention,  or  recall.  The 
Technical  Services  Center  (TSC)  and  OPHS  may  also  serve  as  technical  resources  to 
assist  In  the  decision  making  process.  The  DO  will  contact  inspection  program 
personnel  and  program  investigators  as  necessary  (see  FSIS  Directive  8080.1, 

Revision  3). 

3.  As  set  out  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  inspection  program  personnel 

are  to: 

a.  issue  an  NR  under  the  appropriate  03  ISP  code  using  the  “verification”  trend 
indicator;  and 

b.  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  establishment  has  implemented  its  corrective 
action,  perform  a HACCP  02  procedure  for  the  specific  production  that  tested  positive 
for  E.  coli  0157:H7  and  verify  that  the  establishment  implements  corrective  action  that 
meets  the  requirements  of: 

i.  9 CFR  417.3(a)  If  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  addressed  In  the  HACCP  plan; 

ii.  9 CFR  417.3(b)  if  E.  co// 01 57:H7  is  not  addressed  in  the  HACCP  plan  or  if  it 
is  addressed  In  prerequisite  programs;  or 

iii.  9 CFR  417.3(b)  and  416.15  if  E.  co//0157:H7  Is  addressed  in  the  Sanitation 

SOPs. 

4.  If  disposition  of  the  positive  product  will  be  delayed,  inspection  program 
personnel  should  work  with  their  front-line  supervisors  to  determine  how  to  work  with 
the  establishment  to  ensure  proper  and  timely  disposal  of  the  product. 

5.  If  product  disposition  is  to  occur  off  site,  inspection  program  personnel  are  to 
verify  that  the  establishment  that  produced  the  positive  product  maintains  appropriate 
control  of  the  product  by  conducting  the  following  activities  when  performing  the  02 
procedure: 


7 


a.  obtaining  the  identity  of  the  official  establishment  or  obtaining  the  name  and 
address  of  any  renderer  or  landfill  that  will  receive  the  product; 

b.  notifying,  through  e-mail,  the  contact  person  in  the  District  that  covers  the 
establishment  that  produced  the  positive  product  that  adulterated  product  is  being 
transferred  and  providing  the  DO  contact  person  the  establishment  number  of  the 
establishment  where  disposition  will  occur  or  the  name  and  address  of  the  landfill 
operation  or  renderer.  The  District  contact  person  will  notify  the  District  where  the 
establishment  that  will  further  process  the  product,  landfill  operation,  or  renderer  is 
located,  if  the  establishment,  landfill  operation,  or  renderer  that  is  to  receive  the  product 
is  located  in  another  District; 

c.  for  product  being  transferred  to  a landfill  operation  or  renderer,  verifying  that 
the  establishment  will  maintain  control  of  the  positive  product  while  it  is  in  transit 
(e.g.,  through  company  seals); 

d.  for  product  being  transferred  to  an  official  establishment,  verifying  that  either 
1)  the  establishment  that  produced  positive  product  will  maintain  control  of  the  product 
while  it  is  in  transit  (e.g.,  through  company  seals)  or  2)  the  product  will  move  under 
FSIS  control  (e.g.,  under  USDAseal  or  accompanied  by  FSIS  Form  7350-1);  and 

e.  verifying  that  records  are  available  that  show  that  the  positive  product 
received  the  proper  disposition,  including  documentation  evidencing  proper  disposal  of 
the  product  from  the  official  establishment,  landfill  operation,  or  renderer  where 
disposition  occurred.  The  HACCP  02  procedure  at  the  establishment  that  produced  the 
positive  product  cannot  be  completed  for  this  specific  production  until  the  establishment 
has  conducted  pre-shipment  review  of  the  corrective  action  record  and  has  received 
documentation  evidencing  proper  disposal  from  the  official  establishment  where 
disposition  occurred  or  landfill  operation  or  renderer  where  disposition  occurred. 

6.  If  inspection  program  personnel  find  noncompliance  with  paragraph  5,  they 
are  to  contact  the  DO.  The  DO  will  investigate  to  determine  whether  the  establishment 
committed  the  prohibited  act  of  selling  or  transporting  adulterated  articles  that  have  not 
been  inspected  and  passed. 

Part  V - Follow-up  Sampling 

A.  Are  FSIS  follow-up  samples  taken  at  official  establishments  after  an 
FSIS-sample  of  raw  ground  beef  is  confirmed  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7? 

1 . If  inspection  program  personnel  identify  no  significant  problems  through  the 
HACCP  02  procedure  (see  Part  IV.  A.  3.  b.),  inspection  program  personnel  are  to 
contact  OPHS  through  an  Outlook  e-mail  message  to  Sampling  Forms  - 
Headquarters  mailbox,  so  a form  can  be  sent  for  the  collection  of  a follow-up 
verification  sample.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  copy  (CC)  their  front-line 
supervisor  and  the  DO  designated  representative  on  their  e-mail  message.  The 
request  must  include  the  establishment  number,  the  number  of  forms  (in  this  case  1), 
the  type  of  sample  to  be  collected  (I.e.,  a product  sample),  the  purpose  of  the  request 

8 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


(i.e.,  follow-up  sampling  in  response  to  a confirmed  positive  in  raw  ground  beef),  the 
sample  form  number  of  the  original  positive  sample  triggering  this  request,  and  the  DO 
official  approving  the  request.  Instructions  for  follow-up  sampling  will  be  provided  on 
FSIS  Form  10,210-3,  Requested  Sample  Programs,  or  in  revisions  to  FSIS  Directive 
10,210.1,  under  the  appropriate  project.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  collect 
the  follow-up  sample  as  soon  after  the  establishment  has  taken  its  corrective  action  as 
possible.  See  Part  V.  A.  3.,  for  actions  to  take  if  disposition  of  the  positive  product  is 
delayed. 

2.  If  Inspection  program  personnel  identify  regulatory  noncompliance,  they 
should  document  the  noncompliance  in  accordance  with  FSIS  Directive  5000.1, 
Revisioni , Chapter  IV.  If  inspection  program  personnel  find  that  the  establishment  may 
have  moved  positive  product  without  appropriate  controls  or  if  they  find  the 
establishment  may  not  have  records  showing  that  positive  product  received  proper 
disposition,  they  should  contact  the  DO.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  also 
collect  one  follow-up  sample  as  soon  after  the  establishment  has  taken  its  corrective 
action  as  possible.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  contact  OPHS  so  a form  can 
be  sent  for  the  collection  of  a follow-up  verification  sample.  See  Part  V.  A.  1 .,  for 
information  on  e-mailing  OPHS  to  request  a follow-up  sampling  form.  See  Part  V.  A.  3., 
for  actions  to  take  if  disposition  of  the  positive  product  is  delayed. 

3.  If  disposition  of  the  positive  product  will  be  delayed,  inspection  program 
personnel  should  work  with  their  front-line  supervisors  to  determine  when  it  would  be 
appropriate  to  collect  the  follow-up  sample  and  how  to  work  with  the  establishment  to 
ensure  proper  and  timely  disposal  of  the  product. 

4.  If  the  inspection  program  personnel  have  concerns  regarding  whether  the 
design  of  the  HACCP  system  is  adequate  to  ensure  food  safety,  they  should  not  collect 
a follow-up  sample.  They  should  notify  their  front-line  supervisor,  who  will  determine 
whether  it  Is  necessary  to  bring  in  an  Enforcement  Investigations  and  Analysis  Officer 
(EIAO)  to  the  establishment  to  conduct  a comprehensive  assessment  of  the  food  safety 
systems.  If  the  EIAO  determines  that  the  establishment’s  corrective  actions  appear  to 
be  appropriate  and  effective,  the  EIAO  will  contact  OPHS  so  a form  can  be  sent  to 
inspection  program  personnel  for  the  collection  of  a follow-up  verification  sample.  See 
Part  V.  A.  1 .,  for  information  on  e-mailing  OPHS  to  request  a follow-up  sampling  form. 
Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  the  sample  as  soon  as  possible  after  they 
receive  the  form.  See  Part  V.  A.  3.,  for  actions  to  take  if  disposition  of  the  positive 
product  is  delayed. 

5.  If  a follow-up  sample  is  found  positive,  the  DO  is  notified  through  BITES,  and 
the  DO  will  determine  the  appropriate  follow-up  action. 


9 


6.  If  the  EIAO  determines  that  the  corrective  actions  are  inappropriate  or 
ineffective,  the  EIAO  will  recommend  an  enforcement  action  as  described  in 

9 CFR  500.3  or  500.4  (e.g.,  Notice  of  Intended  Enforcement  (NOIE),  withholding,  or 
suspension). 

7.  If  the  District  Office  decides  to  either  defer  a decision  on  suspending  the 
establishment,  or  a suspension  action  is  taken  and  then  put  into  abeyance  (see  FSIS 
Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  Chapter  IV),  FSIS  will  conduct  follow-up  sampling  to  verify 
that  the  corrective  action  taken  by  the  establishment  is  appropriate  and  effective.  The 
DO  will  determine  the  number  of  follow-up  samples  to  be  taken  based  on  guidance  that 
will  be  available  to  the  DO  before  the  implementation  date  of  this  Directive.  The  DO 
should  contact  OPHS  so  the  appropriate  number  of  forms  can  be  sent  to  inspection 
program  personnel  for  the  collection  of  follow-up  verification  samples.  See  Part  V.  A.  1 ., 
for  information  on  e-malling  OPHS  to  request  follow-up  sampling  forms.  The  guidance 
is  designed  to  provide  enhanced  statistical  confidence  for  finding  low  levels  of  E.  coli 
0157:H7  but  Is  not  designed  to  provide  validation  of  the  establishment’s  food  safety 
system. 

PART  VI  - FSIS’  Verification  Activities  at  Establishments  Producing 
Raw  Ground  Beef  Components  or  Raw  Beef  Patty  Components 

A.  If  FSIS  confirms  raw  ground  beef  product  at  an  official  establishment  or 
retail  facility  positive  for  E.  co/i  0157:H7,  and  a second  official  establishment 
supplied  the  product  used  to  produce  the  ground  product,  what  verification 
activities  does  FSIS  conduct  at  the  supplying  establishment? 

The  lie  at  the  supplying  establishment  ensures  that  the  inspection  program 
personnel  perform  a HACCP  02  procedure  to  verify  that  the  establishment  met  the 
applicable  regulatory  requirements  at  all  CCPs  in  the  HACCP  plan  (monitoring, 
verification,  recordkeeping,  corrective  actions,  and  reassessment)  for  the  production 
lots  sent  to  the  establishment  or  retail  facility  where  FSIS  found  the  positive.  If 
inspection  program  personnel  find  noncompliance,  they  take  appropriate  action  as 
described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revisioni,  Chapter  IV. 

B.  If  a grinding  establishment  or  retail  facility  receives  incoming  product 
for  grinding,  and  FSIS  finds  the  raw  ground  product  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7, 
will  FSIS  test  product  from  suppliers?  If  so,  how  do  inspection  program 
personnel  collect  samples? 

1.  When  FSIS  conducts  sampling  at  official  establishments  or  at  retail,  and  a 
sample  tests  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  FSIS  may  test  raw  ground  beef  components 
and  raw  beef  patty  components  at  the  supplying  establishment. 

2.  If  inspection  program  personnel  are  requested  to  collect  raw  ground  beef 
components  or  raw  beef  patty  component  samples,  they  are  to  follow  the  instruction  In 
Part  II  of  this  directive  and  collect  samples  as  described  in  Attachment  2.  The  types  of 
product  inspection  program  personnel  may  collect  are: 


10 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


Raw  Ground  Beef  Components:  These  components  include  raw  esophagus 
(weasand)  meat,  head  meat,  and  cheek  meat;  beef  manufacturing  trimmings 
(e.g.,  90/10,  85/15,  75/25,  65/35,  50/50);  boneless  beef;  beef  from  AMR  systems;  and 
lean  finely  textured  beef  (LFTB). 

Raw  Beef  Patty  Components:  These  components  include  all  the  components 
listed  above  in  Raw  Ground  Beef  Components,  as  well  as  partially  defatted  chopped 
beef  (PDCB),  finely  textured  PDCB;  heart;  and  partially  defatted  beef  fatty  tissue 
(PDBFT). 

3.  Also,  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  only  collect  samples  of  raw  ground 
beef  components  or  raw  beef  patty  components  that  are  intended  for  use  in  raw  non- 
intact product.  To  determine  the  intended  use  of  the  products,  inspection  program 
personnel  are  to  review  establishment  records  and  HACCP  documents.  In  cases  where 
the  establishment  records  and  HACCP  documents  (e.g.,  flow  chart  and  hazard 
analysis)  are  unclear  about  the  intended  user,  FSIS  will  handle  the  product  as  if  it  were 
intended  for  use  in  raw  non-intact  product.  If  the  establishment  has  not  identified  the 
intended  use  or  consumers  of  the  finished  product,  the  establishment  is  out  of 
compliance  with  9 CFR  417.2(a)(2). 

C.  If  FSIS  finds  raw  ground  beef  product  at  an  official  establishment 
positive  for  E.  co// 0157:H7,  and  the  ground  product  was  derived  from  raw 
ground  beef  components  produced  at  the  same  establishment,  would  FSIS 
sample  raw  ground  beef  components  at  that  establishment? 

FSIS  may  sample  and  test  raw  ground  beef  components  at  an  establishment 
that  produces  raw  ground  beef  products  from  such  components  if  FSIS  finds  the  ground 
beef  product  positive.  If  Instructed  to  sample  such  products,  inspection  program 
personnel  should  follow  the  sampling  procedures  in  Part  VI.  B. 

D.  What  enforcement  actions  do  inspection  program  personnel  take  if  FSiS 
finds  a raw  ground  beef  component  or  raw  beef  patty  component  positive  for  E. 
co/i  0157:H7? 

Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  follow  the  instructions  in  Part  IV.  A.  The 
enforcement  actions  inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  when  FSIS  finds  a raw 
ground  beef  component  or  raw  beef  patty  component  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  are 
the  same  as  the  enforcement  actions  Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  take  when 
FSIS  finds  a raw  ground  beef  product  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7.  Similarly,  the 
controls  necessary  for  movement  of  presumptive  positive  or  positive  raw  ground  beef 
products  are  also  necessary  for  movement  of  presumptive  positive  or  positive  raw 
ground  beef  components  or  raw  beef  patty  components. 


11 


PART  VII  - Inspection  program  personnel  responsibilities  related  to  an 
establishment’s  testing  of  product  for  E.  coli  0157:H7 

A.  Can  establishments  conduct  pre-shipment  review  for  product 
that  is  not  at  the  producing  establishment? 

FSIS  has  taken  a consistent  position  that  establishments  can  conduct  pre- 
shipment  review  when  the  product  is  at  locations  other  than  at  the  producing 
establishment  provided  that  the  product  does  not  leave  the  control  of  the  producing 
establishment.  Some  establishments  analyze  samples  for  E.  coli  01 57:H7  while  the 
product  is  being  moved  but  is  still  under  the  establishment’s  control.  FSIS  is  providing 
the  establishments  the  flexibility  to  move  this  product  prior  to  pre-shipment  review  being 
conducted  when  the  establishment  is  conducting  testing  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  and 
maintains  control  of  the  product.  FSIS  has  instructed  inspection  program  personnel 
that  they  have  access  to  the  results  of  any  testing  and  of  any  monitoring  activities  that 
are  performed  that  may  have  an  impact  on  the  establishment’s  hazard  analysis  (FSIS 
Directive  5000.2).  Inspection  program  personnel  must  review  these  results  on  at  least 
a weekly  basis. 

B.  What  do  inspection  program  personnel  verify  if  an  establishment 
conducts  verification  testing  for  E.  co// 0157:H7? 

1 . Inspection  program  personnel  are  to  review  the  records  associated  with  any 
E.  coli  0157:H7  testing  conducted  by  an  establishment.  If  inspection  program 
personnel  find  a presumptive  positive  or  confirmed  positive  E.  co// 01 57:H7  result  in  the 
testing  records,  they  should  verify  that  the  establishment  is  implementing  corrective 
actions  that  meet  the  regulatory  requirements  as  part  of  a HACCP  02  procedure  as 
described  in  Part  IV. 

2.  If  establishment  records  show  that  the  establishment  transports  product  that  it 
has  found  presumptive  positive  or  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  to  another  establishment 
for  appropriate  disposition,  or  if  establishment  records  show  that  the  establishment 
moves  product  before  E.  coli  0157:H7  test  results  become  available,  inspection 
program  personnel  should  verify  that  the  establishment — 

a.  maintains  records  identifying  the  official  establishment,  renderer,  or  landfill 
operation  that  received  presumptive  positive  or  positive  product; 

b.  maintains  records  identifying  the  official  establishment  that  is  to  receive 
product  for  which  results  are  pending; 

c.  maintains  control  of  product  that  is  destined  for  a landfill  operation  or  renderer 
while  the  product  is  in  transit  (e.g.,  through  company  seals); 


12 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


d.  maintains  control  of  product  that  is  destined  for  an  official  establishment  while 
the  product  is  in  transit  (e.g.,  through  company  seals)  or  ensures  such  product  moved 
under  FSIS  control  (e.g.,  under  USDAseal  or  accompanied  by  FSIS  Form  7350-1); 

e.  maintains  records  that  show  that  presumptive  positive  or  positive  product, 
including  product  that  moved  pending  test  results,  received  the  proper  disposition, 
including  documentation  evidencing  proper  disposal  of  the  product  from  the  official 
establishment,  renderer,  or  landfill  where  disposition  occurred;  and 

f.  completes  pre-shipment  review  for  product  from  a lot  that  has  tested  positive 
or  presumptive  positive  and  that  was  moved  pending  test  results  only  after  it  has  the 
records  described  in  paragraph  e.  for  that  particular  product. 

3.  If  inspection  program  personnel  are  aware  that  an  establishment  has  found 
product  presumptive  positive  or  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  and  that  the  establishment 
is  currently  moving  the  product  for  further  processing  to  destroy  the  pathogen  or  for 
destruction,  they  should  verify  that  the  establishment  moves  the  product  using  the 
appropriate  controls  Identified  in  Part  VII.  B.  2.  Inspection  program  personnel  should 
also  notify  the  DO  where  the  establishment  that  produced  positive  or  presumptive 
positive  product  Is  located,  through  e-mail,  of  the  establishment  number  or  name  and 
address  of  the  renderer  or  landfill  operation  that  is  to  receive  the  product.  The  DO 
contact  person  will  notify  the  contact  person  in  the  District  where  the  establishment, 
landfill  operation,  or  renderer  that  Is  to  receive  the  product  is  located,  if  that 
establishment,  landfill  operation,  or  renderer  Is  located  in  another  District. 

4.  If  Inspection  program  personnel  find  noncompliance  with  Part  VII.  B.,  1 .,  2.,  or 
3.,  they  should  contact  the  DO.  The  DO  will  investigate  to  determine  whether  the 
establishment  committed  the  prohibited  act  of  selling  or  transporting  adulterated  articles 
that  have  not  been  inspected  and  passed. 

5.  The  HACCP  02  procedure  for  a specific  production  at  the  establishment  that 
produced  the  positive  or  presumptive  positive  product  cannot  be  completed  until  that 
establishment  completes  pre-shipment  review,  including  review  of  the  corrective  action 
record,  and  has  received  documentation  evidencing  that  product  has  been  properly 
disposed  of  from  the  official  establishment  where  disposition  occurred  or  renderer  or 
landfill  operation  where  disposition  occurred. 

NOTE:  When  an  establishment  tests  product,  a presumptive  positive  or  positive  result 
alone  does  not  warrant  an  NR.  Inspection  program  personnel  are  only  to  issue  an  NR 
in  response  to  an  establishment’s  presumptive  positive  or  positive  finding  If  the 
establishment  fails  to  take  the  appropriate  actions  to  meet  the  requirements  in 
9CFR417.3. 


13 


PART  VIII  - Receiving  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef 
components,  and  raw  beef  patty  components  that  are  positive  for  E. 
CO// 01 57:H7 

What  should  inspection  program  personnel  do  at  an  establishment  that 
receives  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef  components,  and  raw  beef 
patty  components  that  FSIS  or  an  establishment  has  found  positive  for  E.  coli 
0157:H7? 

When  inspection  program  personnel  perform  a HACCP  01  or  02  procedure  at  an 
establishment  that  has  received  product  from  a lot  that  was  found  positive  for  E.  coli 
0157:H7  product,  they  are  to  verify  that: 

1 . the  establishment  documents  the  receipt  of  presumptive  positive  or  positive 
product,  as  required  under  9 CFR  417.5; 

2.  the  establishment  maintains  control  of  the  product;  and 

3.  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  addressed  in  the  establishment’s  hazard  analysis  and 
HACCP  plan,  so  that  the  positive  product  will  receive  an  adequate  lethality  treatment  to 
destroy  the  pathogen. 

If  inspection  program  personnel  find  noncompliance,  they  take  appropriate  action 
as  described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  Chapter  IV. 

Part  IX  --  Verification  Procedures  Involving  Instructional  or  Disclaimer 
Statements  Concerning  E.  co// 0157:H7 

A.  What  is  an  instructional  or  disclaimer  statement  concerning  E.  coli 
0157:H7? 

1.  An  instructional  statement  concerning  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  a statement  that 
addresses  how  the  product  should  be  prepared  or  handled  to  ensure  that  the  pathogen 
is  eliminated  or  reduced  to  an  undetectable  level.  Examples  of  instructional 
statements  concerning  E.  coli  0157:H7  in  raw  ground  beef  components,  raw  beef  patty 
components,  and  raw  ground  beef  products  may  include,  “for  full  lethality  treatment”  or 
“for  cooking  only.”  “Cooking”  is  applying  heat  to  a product  at  a sufficient  temperature 
and  for  a sufficient  period  of  time  to  eliminate  E.  coli  0157:H7  or  reduce  the  pathogen 
to  an  undetectable  level,  and  “full  lethality  treatment”  may  be  cooking  or  another 
process  that  eliminates  E.  co// 01 57:H7  or  reduces  the  pathogen  to  an  undetectable 
level,  such  as  fermentation  or  salt  curing. 

2.  A disclaimer  statement  concerning  E.  co// 01 57:H7  is  a statement  regarding 
the  type  of  verification  activities  addressing  the  pathogen  that  were  NOT  used  in  the 
production  of  the  product.  An  example  of  a disclaimer  statement  concerning  E.  coli 
0157:H7  is,  “product  has  not  been  tested  for  E.  co// 01 57:H7.” 


14 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


B.  What  type  of  products  can  bear  these  labeling  statements? 

Establishments  can  only  place  these  statements  on  product  for  use  at  other 
official  establishments.  When  the  Labeling  and  Consumer  Protection  Staff  (LCPS) 
approves  the  use  of  instructional  labeling  statements,  LCPS  specifies  that  such 
statements  can  only  be  used  on  products  destined  for  official  establishments  that 
ensure  these  products  receive  adequate  lethality  treatment.  When  LCPS  approves  the 
use  of  disclaimer  labeling  statements,  LCPS  specifies  that  such  statements  can  only  be 
used  on  products  destined  for  official  establishments  that  address  E.  co// 01 57:H7  in 
their  HACCP  plan.  Establishments’  use  of  these  statements  is  entirely  optional. 

C.  What  verification  activities  shouid  inspection  program  personnel 
conduct  at  establishments  that  place  instructional  or  disclaimer  statements 
concerning  E.  coli  0157:H7  on  the  labeling  of  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw 
ground  beef  components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components? 

1.  When  conducting  an  04B04  procedure,  inspection  program  personnel  are  to 
verify  that  the  establishment  has  received  sketch  approval  from  LCPS  and  that  it  Is 
maintained  In  the  company’s  required  labeling  records  (see  9 CFR  317.4(a)). 

2.  If  inspection  program  personnel  find  that  the  establishment  did  not  receive 
sketch  approval  or  does  not  maintain  that  sketch  approval  in  its  official  labeling  records, 
they  are  to  document  the  noncompliance  on  an  NR  under  the  Inspection  System 
Procedure  (ISP)  code  04B04,  and  they  are  to  document  noncompliance  with 

9 CFR  317.4(a). 

3.  When  performing  a HACCP  01  or  02  procedure  to  verify  the  HACCP 
regulatory  requirements  are  met  for  the  production  of  such  products,  inspection 
program  personnel  are  to  verify  that: 

a.  the  Instructional  or  disclaimer  statement  does  not  serve  as  a control  or  CCP 
to  address  E.  co// 01 57: H7; 

b.  the  establishment  has  not  used  the  statement  to  justify  Its  determination  that 
E.  co// 0157:H7  is  NOT  a hazard  reasonably  likely  to  occur  in  the  production  of  these 
products; 

c.  the  use  of  any  instructional  statements  is  reflected  in  the  establishment’s 
decisionmaking  documents  (9  CFR  417.5)  or  hazard  analysis  (9  CFR  417.2(a)(1));  and 

d.  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan  for  products  on  which  it  places  a disclaimer 
statement  includes  a validated  intervention  for  E.  co// 01 57:H7. 


15 


4.  If  inspection  program  personnel  find  that  the  establishment’s  use  of 
instructional  statements  does  not  meet  the  criteria  in  paragraph  3.  a.,  b.,  or  c.  or  that 
the  establishment’s  use  of  disclaimer  statements  does  not  meet  the  criteria  in 
paragraph  3.  a.  or  b.,  they  are  to  document  the  noncompliance  on  an  NR  as  described 
in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  Chapter  IV  using  the  03-01  or  03-02  ISP  code 
and  the  appropriate  regulatory  citation. 

5.  If  inspection  program  personnel  find  that  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan  for 
product  on  which  it  places  a disclaimer  statement  does  not  include  an  intervention  for 
E.  coli  0157:H7,  they  are  to  document  the  noncompliance  on  an  NR  as  described  in 
FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  Chapter  IV,  using  the  03-01  or  03-02  ISP  code  and 
the  appropriate  regulatory  citation.  If  inspection  program  personnel  are  concerned 
about  product  moving  outside  the  establishment,  they  should  initiate  a regulatory 
control  action  (9  CFR  500.2). 

D.  What  verification  activities  should  inspection  program  personnel 
conduct  at  establishments  receiving  raw  ground  beef  components,  raw  beef  patty 
components,  or  raw  ground  beef  products  with  instructional  or  disclaimer 
statements  concerning  E.  co// 0157:H7? 

1.  When  performing  an  01  or  02  procedure  to  verify  the  HACCP  requirements 
are  met  for  products  produced  using  such  incoming  products,  inspection  program 
personnel  are  to  verify  that  establishments  that  receive  such  Incoming  products: 

a.  have  addressed  the  use  of  incoming  product  with  disclaimer  statements  in 
their  HACCP  plan  as  if  the  product  may  be  contaminated  with  E.  co// 01 57:H7;  and 

b.  are  following  any  instructional  statements  on  the  incoming  products. 

2.  If  inspection  program  personnel  find  that  the  establishment  has  not  met  the 
criteria  in  paragraph  1.,  they  are  to  document  the  noncompliance  on  an  NR  as 
described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  Chapter  IV  using  the  03-01  or  03-02 
ISP  code  and  the  appropriate  regulatory  citation. 

3.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  retain  product  produced  using  such 
incoming  products  under  the  following  conditions: 

a.  the  establishment  is  not  following  the  instructional  statement,  or  the 
establishment  is  receiving  product  bearing  a disclaimer  statement  and  its  hazard 
analysis  or  decisionmaking  documents  do  not  address  the  use  of  the  incoming  product 
as  if  it  were  contaminated  with  E.  coli  0157:H7; 

b.  the  establishment’s  process  may  not  be  adequate  to  eliminate  or  reduce  E. 
coli  0157:H7  to  undetectable  levels;  and 

c.  the  product  is  not  intended  for  further  processing  that  would  destroy  the 
pathogen. 


16 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


4.  If  inspection  program  personnel  retain  product,  they  are  to  document  the 
noncompliance  on  an  NR  as  described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  Chapter 
IV  using  the  03-01  or  03-02  ISP  code  and  the  appropriate  regulatory  citation. 

Inspection  program  personnel  should  also  notify  the  DO  through  supervisory  channels 
of  the  conditions  observed  in  association  with  the  use  of  instructional  or  disclaimer 
statements.  The  DO  may  send  an  EIAO  into  the  establishment  to  conduct  a 
comprehensive  food  safety  assessment  or  invoke  an  enforcement  action  as  described 
in9CFR  500.3  or  500.4. 

PART  X --  Retail  Sampling 

A.  How  is  raw  ground  beef  product  sampling  conducted  at  retail? 

1 . Retail  sampling  continues  to  be  an  important  part  of  FSIS’  E.  coli  01 57;H7 
sampling  program.  The  likelihood  that  a specific  retail  facility  will  be  sampled  will 
depend  on  what  the  Agency  learns  about  how  raw  ground  beef  product  is  handled  at 
that  facility. 

2.  When  OPHS  schedules  samples  to  be  taken  at  retail  facilities,  OPHS  will 
send  OPEER  offices  FSIS  Form  10,210-3,  “Requested  Sample  Programs.”  Specific 
information  will  be  provided  for  the  samples  to  be  collected. 

3.  Program  investigators  are  to  make  an  effort  to  notify  the  retail  facility  the  day 
before  they  plan  to  collect  the  raw  ground  beef  product  samples,  so  that  the  retail 
facility  can  prepare  to  hold  the  expected  sampled  lot.  However,  in  cases  when  this  is 
not  possible,  program  investigators  should  try  to  get  to  the  retail  facility  as  close  to  the 
beginning  of  the  grinding  operation  as  possible. 

4.  Program  Investigators  do  not  collect  raw  ground  beef  product  that  is  received 
and  sold  as  case-ready  product  or  raw  ground  beef  product  that  is  only  re-packaged  at 
the  retail  store.  Program  Investigators  also  do  not  collect  raw  ground  beef  product  that 
is  ground  at  retail  if  the  retail  facility  only  regrinds  product  previously  ground  at  official 
establishments  and  does  not  conduct  any  practices  that  would  introduce  E.  coli 
0157:H7  in  the  product  (examples  of  situations  in  which  samples  should  be  taken 
include  when  the  store  mixes  irradiated  and  un-irradiated  beef;  adds  store  trim;  or 
grinds  case-ready  coarse  ground  product  in  a grinder  also  used  to  grind  store  trim  if 
the  sanitation  program  is  not  well  documented,  monitored,  and  verified  for 
effectiveness). 

5.  When  they  collect  the  sample,  program  investigators  obtain  from  the  retail 
facility  the  names  and  establishment  numbers  of  the  establishments  supplying  the 
source  materials  for  the  lot  of  raw  ground  beef  product  sampled. 


17 


NOTE:  When  the  source  material  for  the  sampled  product  is  store-generated  trim,  the 
program  investigator  obtains  and  records  the  names  and  establishment  numbers  of 
the  establishments  that  produced  the  product  from  which  the  store-generated  trim  was 
derived. 

6.  The  supplier  information  is  recorded  on  the  retail  worksheet  that  is  used 
specifically  for  collection  of  raw  ground  beef  products  at  retail. 

7.  In  addition,  the  program  investigator  records  the  supplier  lot  number, 
production  date,  and  other  identifying  information  that  would  be  useful  to  the  supplier  if 
It  is  later  notified  of  a positive  sample. 

B.  if  a sample  of  raw  ground  beef  product  from  a retail  facility  is  confirmed 
positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  what  actions  does  FSIS  take  to  ensure  that 
adulterated  product  is  kept  out  of  commerce? 

The  retail  facility  is  notified  of  the  positive  E.  co// 01 57:H7  result  by  the  program 
investigator.  FSIS  will  request  a recall  if  any  product  in  the  sampled  lot  has  been  made 
available  for  retail  sale.  Program  Investigators  and  RMS  are  to  work  together  to 
determine  the  necessity  of  product  retention,  detention,  or  recall.  (See  FSIS  Directive 
8080.1,  Revision  3). 

C.  Whom  does  FSIS  notify  when  a raw  ground  beef  product  sample  at  a 
retail  facility  is  confirmed  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  and  how  is  the  notification 
given? 


1.  OPEER  is  notified  of  a retail  positive  through  the  Biological  Information 
Transfer  and  E-mail  System  (BITES)  and  enters  supplier  information  Into  the  STEPS 
system. 

2.  The  OPEER  contact  person  accesses  the  STEPS  system  site  with  the  list  of 
suppliers  for  the  sampled  product  that  tested  positive  and  follows  the  procedures  for 
notifying  suppliers  in  Part  III.  B. 

D.  if  FSIS  finds  raw  ground  beef  product  produced  at  retaii  positive  for  E. 
co// 0157:H7,  does  FSIS  conduct  follow-up  sampling  at  the  retail  facility? 

After  an  FSIS  sample  tests  positive,  program  investigators  should  contact 
OPHS  through  an  Outlook  e-mail  message  to  Sampling  Forms  - Headquarters 
mailbox,  so  a form  can  be  sent  for  the  collection  of  a follow-up  sample.  The  request 
must  include  the  retail  facility  name  and  address,  the  number  of  forms  (in  this  case,  1), 
the  type  of  sample  to  be  collected  (i.e.,  product  sample),  the  purpose  of  the  request 
(i.e.,  follow-up  sampling  in  response  to  a confirmed  E.  co// 01 57:H7  positive  in  raw 
ground  beef),  the  sample  form  number  of  the  original  positive  sample  triggering  this 
request,  the  date  by  which  the  form  is  needed,  and  the  program  Investigator’s  name 
and  work  address.  Instructions  for  follow-up  sampling  will  be  provided  on  FSIS  Form 
10,210-3,  “Requested  Sample  Programs”  or  in  revisions  to  FSIS  Directive  10,210.1, 
under  the  appropriate  project.  In  addition,  when  feasible,  FSIS  will  schedule 

18 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 

verification  activities,  including  testing,  at  the  supplying  establishment  following  an 
FSIS  positive  sample  from  a retail  facility. 

PART  XI  - Import  Sampling 

A.  How  is  raw  ground  beef  product  sampling  conducted  at  import 
establishments? 

1 . OPHS  works  with  the  Office  of  International  Affairs  (OIA)  to  send  import 
inspection  personnel  FSIS  Form  10,210-3,  “Requested  Sample  Programs.”  Certain 
information  will  be  provided  specific  to  the  sample  to  be  collected.  Import  inspection 
personnel  are  to  follow  the  corresponding  Instructions  found  in  the  Import  Manual  of 
Procedures  (Part  3,  Section  5).  When  OPHS  begins  sending  the  form  electronically, 
the  Automated  Import  Information  System  (AMS)  will  schedule  samples  and  send  the 
form  electronically  to  Import  inspection  personnel. 

2.  Import  inspection  personnel  notify  the  Import  establishment  management  of 
the  reason  a sample  is  being  collected  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  testing  (routine  FSIS 
verification  testing,  increased  sampling,  or  Intensified  sampling).  Imported  products 
may  be  under  increased  sampling  if  OIA  has  determined  that  product  may  be  at  risk  of 
being  contaminated  with  E.  co// 01 57:H7.  When  a shipment  is  to  be  sampled  for  FSIS 
testing,  the  importer,  broker  or  applicant  has  an  opportunity  to  voluntarily  hold  the 
product  until  the  results  are  reported.  Positive  samples  from  imported  products  result 
in  an  intensified  level  of  sampling  of  subsequent  shipments  from  the  foreign 
establishment.  When  a foreign  establishment  is  under  intensified  sampling  for  E.  coli 
0157:H7,  FSIS  holds  the  product  to  be  sampled  until  negative  results  are  reported  by 
the  laboratory. 

B.  If  a sample  of  imported  raw  ground  beef  product  collected  from  an 
import  establishment  is  confirmed  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  what  actions  does 
FSIS  take  to  ensure  that  adulterated  product  is  kept  out  of  commerce? 

1 . If  the  product  is  on  hold  at  the  import  establishment,  whether  on  FSIS  hold  or 
voluntary  hold,  import  inspection  personnel  will  Initiate  refused  entry  procedures  on  the 
entire  lot. 

2.  FSIS  will  request  a recall  if  any  product  in  the  sampled  lot  has  been  released 
Into  commerce.  Program  personnel,  including  OIA,  the  DO,  and  RMS,  work  together  to 
determine  the  necessity  of  product  retention,  detention,  or  recall.  OIA  will  coordinate 
with  the  DO  to  provide  information  to  inspection  program  personnel  and  program 
investigators  as  necessary. 


19 


C.  Whom  does  FSIS  notify  when  an  imported  raw  ground  beef  product 
collected  at  an  import  establishment  is  confirmed  positive  for  E.  coli  0157;H7, 
and  how  is  notification  given? 

1.  If  the  lot  has  not  moved  into  commerce,  import  inspection  personnel  notify 
establishment  management,  which  is  responsible  for  notifying  the  importer  of  record. 
Import  inspection  personnel  should  refer  to  Part  4,  Section  11  of  the  Import  Manual  of 
Procedures  for  guidance  on  refused  entry  procedures. 

2.  If  the  lot  has  moved  into  commerce  from  the  import  establishment: 

a.  the  import  inspection  personnel  should  send  a copy  of  FSIS  Form  9540-1  and 
the  foreign  health  certificate  via  facsimile  to  OIA/Import  Inspection  Division. 

b.  OIA  notifies  the  head  of  the  inspection  service  in  the  country  of  origin  of  the 
sample  that  has  been  confirmed  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  and  requests  that 
appropriate  action  be  taken. 

D.  If  FSIS  finds  raw  ground  beef  product  collected  at  an  import  inspection 
establishment  positive  for  E.  co// 0157:H7,  does  FSIS  conduct  follow-up  sampling 
of  product  from  the  foreign  establishment? 

Positive  samples  from  imported  products  result  in  an  intensified  level  of  sampling 
of  subsequent  shipments  from  the  foreign  establishment.  An  intensified  level  of 
sampling  is  automatically  generated  by  the  AMS  for  the  next  15  consecutive  shipments 
of  product  from  the  foreign  establishment  presented  at  port-of-entry  anywhere  in  the 
United  States.  Under  an  intensified  level  of  sampling,  the  shipment  is  placed  on  FSIS 
hold  when  the  sample  is  collected,  until  results  are  reported.  Import  inspection 
personnel  should  follow  the  procedures  outlined  in  the  Import  Manual  of  Procedures 
(Part  3,  Section  5)  for  guidance. 

All  questions  related  to  this  directive  should  be  directed  through  normal  supervisory 
channels. 


Assistant  Administrator 

Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development 


20 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


Attachment  1 

Questions  and  Answers 

1.  Will  FSIS  sample  trimmings  and  other  ground  beef  and  beef  patty 
components? 

FSIS  may  sample  and  test  beef  manufacturing  trimmings  and  other  raw  ground  beef 
and  beef  patty  components  at  a supplying  establishment  when  that  establishment  has 
supplied  product  to  grinders  that  tested  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:FI7  after  it  was  ground. 
In  the  future,  FSIS  Intends  to  develop  a random  sampling  and  testing  program  for  raw 
ground  beef  components  and  beef  patty  components  and  non-intact  beef  products 
other  than  ground  beef,  such  as  mechanically  tenderized  and  injected  steaks  and 
roasts. 

2.  Will  an  establishment  that  has  incorporated  testing  of  trimmings  and  ground 
beef  products  for  E.  co// 0157:H7  into  its  HACCP  plan  as  a verification  procedure 
be  exempt  from  FSIS  sampling  and  testing? 

No  establishment  that  produces  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef 
components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components  will  be  exempt  from  FSIS  sampling  and 
testing  for  E.  coli  0157:FI7.  However,  FSIS’  verification  testing  will  become  more  risk- 
based.  Establishments  that  have  designed  and  implemented  sampling  and  verification 
testing,  with  a high  degree  of  confidence  of  finding  the  pathogen  in  both  trim  and 
finished  ground  product,  presumably  present  a lower  risk  for  producing  adulterated 
product  than  one  that  conducts  this  activity  only  on  trim  or  only  on  finished  ground 
product  and,  therefore,  will  be  sampled  less  frequently  than  other  establishments. 

3.  What  factors  will  be  considered  by  FSIS  in  establishing  risk-based  verification 
testing  for  E.  co// 0157:H7  in  federally-inspected  establishments? 

FSIS  will  weight  its  sample  scheduling  process  so  that  an  establishment  producing  a 
large  volume  of  raw  ground  beef  products  will  be  sampled  more  frequently  than  an 
establishment  with  a lower  volume  of  production  of  raw  ground  beef  products.  In 
addition,  FSIS  will  also  consider  seasonality  of  E.  coli  0157:H7  prevalence  and  other 
factors,  such  as  the  number  of  suppliers,  in  developing  a sampling  plan  based  on  risk. 
FSIS  will  also  sample  ground  beef  product  at  inspected  establishments  that  form 
ground  beef  patties  but  do  not  grind  the  product.  However,  FSIS  will  also  sample 
ground  beef  product  at  these  establishments  less  frequently  than  at  a plant  that  grinds 
product. 


21 


4.  What  factors  are  considered  by  FSIS  in  ensuring  that  retail  sampling  focuses 
on  the  highest  risk  product? 

Retail  sampling  focuses  on  higher  risk  products  by  focusing  on  product  that  either 
includes  store-generated  trim  or  was  ground  using  equipment  that  had  been  used  to 
grind  store-generated  trim  without  being  adequately  cleaned. 

5.  Can  an  establishment  have  a CCP  for  product  disposition  based  on  finished 
product  testing? 

If  a grinder  has  internal  controls  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  and  receives  product  from 
suppliers  (both  slaughter  and  fabrication  establishments)  that  have  controls  for  E.  coli 
0157:H7,  and  the  grinder  and  its  suppliers  conduct  rigorous  verification  testing  at 
multiple  points  during  the  production  process,  a CCP  for  disposition  based  on  finished 
product  testing  for  E.  coli  0157:H7  may  be  appropriate.  A CCP  for  disposition  based 
on  finished  product  E.  co// 01 57:H7  testing  should  employ  testing  at  a level  sufficient  to 
find  the  organism  if  present  at  very  low  frequency.  Corrective  and  preventive  action  in 
response  to  a positive  in  finished  product  testing  should  accompany  an  examination  of 
the  whole  system,  not  merely  disposition  of  the  product. 

6.  Can  the  FSIS  guidance  materials  suffice  for  supporting  documentation  for 
validation  of  CCPs,  or  does  FSIS  expect  the  scientific  supporting  documents  to 
be  more  specific  than  a copy  of  the  FSIS  guidance  materials? 

The  guidance  materials  that  FSIS  has  developed  for  slaughter  establishments, 
grinders,  and  suppliers  on  minimizing  the  risk  of  E.  co// 01 57:H7  contamination 
included  the  parameters  of  certain  studies.  If  establishments  can  demonstrate  that 
their  process  meets  the  parameters  of  those  studies,  the  FSIS  guidance  materials 
would  be  sufficient  documentation  of  their  validation.  However,  if  the  process 
parameters  in  the  establishment  differ  from  those  in  the  FSIS  guidance  materials,  in- 
house  validation  would  be  necessary. 

7.  If  the  establishment  or  FSIS  tests  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef 
components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components  for  E.  co// 01 57:H7  and  finds  more 
than  one  positive,  do  these  findings  signify  a HACCP  failure? 

The  establishments’  or  FSIS’  finding  more  than  one  positive  would  not  alone  be  a 
HACCP  failure.  However,  FSIS  would  expect  the  establishment  to  identify  E.  coli 
0157:H7  as  a hazard  reasonably  likely  to  occur  (if  it  has  not  already  done  so).  In 
addition,  the  establishment  should  attempt  to  determine  the  cause  of  the  positive 
findings  and  would  likely  need  to  examine  its  intervention  methods  to  determine  why 
they  are  not  working.  Some  establishments  have  adopted  intensive  raw  material  and 
finished  product  testing  and  supplier  controls  within  their  Sanitation  SOPs  and  HACCP 
systems.  In  these  situations,  inspection  program  personnel  should  verify  that  the 
establishments  control  procedures  to  determine  whether  a HACCP  failure  is  occurring. 
In  other  situations,  the  establishment  may  decide  to  conduct  carcass  mapping  to 
identify  areas  of  carcass  contamination  (if  the  establishment  conducts  slaughter  or 
fabrication).  In  addition,  if  FSIS  testing  finds  E.  co// 01 57;H7,  the  establishment  may 

22 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


decide  to  intensify  its  verification  program  or  may  decide  to  ensure  that  the  sensitivity  of 
its  testing  method  is  equivalent  to  FSIS’  testing  method. 

8.  Can  an  inspector  collect  and  submit  a ground  beef  sample  prior  to  pre- 
shipment review  being  performed  by  the  establishment? 

Inspection  program  personnel  should  become  familiar  with  the  production  process  and 
provide  notification  to  the  establishment  that  a sample  will  be  collected  in  time  for  the 
establishment  to  hold  the  sampled  product.  Some  establishments  have  an  extensive 
verification  testing  program,  sample  every  “lot”  of  ground  beef  product  produced,  and 
have  a CCP  for  product  disposition.  In  this  scenario,  the  establishment  cannot  conduct 
pre-shipment  review  until  the  result  from  the  sample  has  been  received.  If  the 
establishment  has  no  interventions  in  place  after  the  product  is  sampled  that  address 
the  presence  of  the  pathogen  of  concern,  the  establishment  could  conduct  a pre- 
shipment review  on  this  product  up  to  this  point  with  a note  indicating  that  the  product  is 
being  held  pending  laboratory  analysis.  Inspection  program  personnel  could  verify  that 
the  establishment  meets  the  corrective  action  requirements  of  9 CFR  417.3,  if  a positive 
result  is  received  by  the  establishment.  If  disposition  of  product  is  delayed,  inspection 
program  personnel  should  work  with  their  front-line  supervisors  to  determine  how  to 
work  with  the  establishment  to  ensure  proper  and  timely  disposal  of  the  product.  When 
the  results  for  both  samples  (FSIS  sample  and  the  establishment  sample)  have  been 
received,  the  establishment  could  then  conduct  a “final”  pre-shipment  review.  In  a 
scenario  similar  to  this,  inspection  program  personnel  could  submit  the  sample  prior  to 
the  final  pre-shipment  review  being  conducted. 

9.  If  an  establishment  makes  case-ready  product  and  requests  that  the  inspector 
give  it  notice  the  day  before  the  inspector  is  to  take  a sample,  so  that  the 
establishment  can  adjust  its  production  levels  to  fill  its  orders  but  still  hold  the 
sampled  lot,  should  the  inspector  accommodate  the  request? 

Yes.  The  purpose  of  FSIS  sampling  is  to  provide  verification  that  the  establishment’s 
process  is  producing  product  that  is  not  adulterated  by  E.  coli  0157:H7.  It  is  not  to 
compromise  the  establishment’s  ability  to  fill  its  orders. 

10.  What  is  the  purpose  of  follow-up  sampling  by  FSIS  after  FSIS  finds  that  a 
sample  of  product  is  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7? 

FSIS  generally  always  will  collect  at  least  one  supplemental  verification  sample  of 
product  immediately  following  corrective  actions  by  the  establishment  when  FSIS  finds 
a sample  of  product  from  an  official  establishment  positive  for  E.  coli  0157:H7.  This 
follow-up  verification  sample  is  expected  to  be  larger  (e.g.,  double  the  size  of  the 
regular  verification  sample),  and  FSIS  expects  to  double  the  number  of  sub-samples 
that  it  analyzes.  The  results  will  be  reported  as  either  positive  or  negative,  like  other 


23 


routine  verification  sample  results.  FSIS’  follow-up  sampling  is  one  of  several  activities 
FSIS  conducts  to  verify  the  adequacy  of  the  establishments’  corrective  actions  following 
an  FSIS  positive  E.  co// 01 57:H7  finding. 

11.  Is  FSIS  notified  of  E.  co// 01 57:H7  positive  Agriculture  Marketing  Service 
(AMS)  results?  If  so,  what  actions  do  inspection  program  personnel  take  in 
response  to  such  notification? 

Yes,  FSIS  is  notified  of  E.  co// 0157:H7  positive  AMS  results.  AMS  reports  potential 
positives  and  confirmed  positives  to  FSIS.  When  the  DO  is  notified  of  an  AMS  potential 
positive,  FSIS  reacts  as  if  the  product  were  found  presumptive  positive  by  FSIS  (see 
Part  III,  A.).  If  the  product  is  confirmed  positive  by  AMS,  the  establishment  needs  to 
ensure  Its  proper  disposition  and  to  conduct  appropriate  corrective  actions.  An  AMS 
result  is  an  official  government  result. 

12.  Why  must  establishments  obtain  sketch  approval  from  FSIS  to  use  labeling 
that  includes  instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  on  raw  ground  beef  products, 
raw  ground  beef  components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components? 

The  labeling  of  ground  beef  products,  single-ingredient  raw  ground  beef  components, 
or  single-ingredient  raw  beef  patty  components  that  includes  special  instructions  or 
disclaimer  statements  concerning  E.  co// 0157:H7  cannot  be  generically  approved 
because  FSIS  considers  these  special  instructions  or  disclaimers  to  be  special  claims 
(see  9 CFR  317.5(b)(2)). 

13.  If  FSIS  finds  that  establishments  have  been  using  labeling  that  includes 
instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  on  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground 
beef  components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components  without  sketch  approval  from 
FSIS,  will  FSIS  request  that  the  establishments  recall  the  product? 

No.  FSIS  will  not  request  that  establishments  recall  product  that  has  already  been 
shipped  with  unapproved  labels  because  use  of  such  product  will  not  result  in  adverse 
health  consequences.  However,  FSIS  will  rescind  such  labels,  and  the  establishment 
would  need  to  submit  them  to  FSIS  for  sketch  approval. 

14.  Can  instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  serve  as  controls  or  CCPs  to 
address  E.  co// 01 57:H7? 

Labeling  is  not  a means  to  prevent,  eliminate,  or  reduce  pathogens.  Therefore, 
instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  cannot  be  used  as  CCPs  or  interventions  for  E. 
coli  0157:H7.  If  the  establishment  has  determined  that  E.  co// 01 57: H7  is  a hazard 
reasonably  likely  to  occur  in  its  production  of  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground 
beef  components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components,  the  establishment  must  have  an 
intervention  to  address  the  hazard. 


24 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


15.  Can  establishments  use  instructional  or  disclaimer  labeling  statements  to 
justify  a determination  that  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  not  a hazard  reasonably  likely  to 
occur  in  their  production  of  beef  products? 

No.  Because  labeling  is  not  a means  to  control  pathogens,  establishments  may  not  use 
these  labels  to  justify  their  determination  that  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  NOT  a hazard 
reasonably  likely  to  occur  in  their  production  of  these  products. 

16.  Can  product  labeled  “for  cooking  only”  go  to  an  establishment  that  cooks 
product  intended  for  additional  further  processing? 

Yes.  Even  if  the  product  will  undergo  further  processing  after  it  leaves  the  cooking 
establishment,  as  long  as  the  cooking  establishment  cooks  the  product  at  a sufficient 
temperature  and  for  a sufficient  period  of  time  to  eliminate  or  reduce  E.  coli  0157:H7  to 
an  undetectable  level,  the  cooking  establishment  would  be  complying  with  the  labeling 
instructions. 

17.  How  should  the  placement  of  instructional  statements  be  reflected  in  HACCP 
plan  documents? 

The  placement  of  any  Instructional  statement  addressing  E.  coli  0157:H7  on  labels  of 
raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef  components,  or  raw  beef  patty  components 
must  be  reflected  In  an  establishment’s  decisionmaking  documents  and  hazard 
analysis. 

For  example,  if  an  establishment  Is  placing  the  statement  “for  cooking  only”  or  “for  full 
lethality  treatment”  on  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef  components,  or  raw 
beef  patty  components,  the  establishment’s  hazard  analysis  should  show  how  the 
establishment  is  ensuring  that  the  product  will  go  for  cooking  only  or  for  other  full 
lethality  treatment  only.  If  the  establishment  places  a “for  cooking  only”  statement  on 
the  product  and  cooks  the  product  in  the  establishment,  the  establishment’s  flow  chart 
should  show  the  cooking  steps  the  product  will  undergo.  If  the  establishment  places  a 
“for  cooking  only”  statement  on  the  product  and  ships  it  to  outside  establishments,  the 
shipping  establishment  should  have  controls  In  place  to  ensure  that  the  product  goes 
only  to  establishments  that  cook  it.  If  the  shipping  establishment  also  produces  product 
that  Is  not  intended  for  cooking.  It  should  have  controls  in  place  to  segregate  product 
intended  for  cooking  from  product  not  Intended  for  cooking.  If  an  establishment  places 
the  statement  “for  cooking  only”  on  its  finished  product,  but  the  establishment  has  not 
addressed  the  intended  use  of  its  finished  product  in  its  decisionmaking  documents  or 
hazard  analysis,  the  establishment’s  hazard  analysis  and  decisionmaking  documents 
would  not  be  consistent  with  the  information  contained  in  the  instructional  statement, 
and  the  establishment  would  not  be  in  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5. 


25 


18.  Why  are  establishments  that  place  labels  on  raw  beef  products  that  include  a 
disclaimer  statement  concerning  E.  co/i  0157:H7  required  to  have  an  intervention 
for  the  pathogen  in  their  HACCP  plan? 

An  establishment  may  use  a disclaimer  statement,  such  as,  “not  tested  for  E.  coli 
0157:H7,”  on  labels  of  raw  ground  beef  products,  raw  ground  beef  components,  or  raw 
beef  patty  components  only  if  it  has  an  intervention  for  the  pathogen  in  its  HACCP  plan 
for  these  products.  A disclaimer  that  the  product  has  not  been  tested  for  E.  coli 
0157;H7  implies  that  E.  coli  0157;H7  may  be  a food  safety  hazard  reasonably  likely  to 
occur  in  the  product  in  the  absence  of  controls.  Therefore,  the  information  contained  in 
the  disclaimer  statement  would  be  inconsistent  with  a determination  in  the  hazard 
analysis  that  it  is  unnecessary  to  address  this  hazard  in  the  HACCP  plan,  and  the 
HACCP  plan  may  be  determined  inadequate  (9  CFR  417.6). 

19.  How  are  inspection  personnel  to  document  noncompliances  involving 
labeling  and  disclaimer  statements? 

Inspection  program  personnel  are  usually  to  cite  9 CFR  417.5  and  to  use  the 
recordkeeping  trend  indicator  when  documenting  on  an  NR  most  of  the  possible 
noncompliances  involving  labeling  and  disclaimer  statements.  Under  9 CFR  417.5, 
required  records  documenting  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan  include:  a written 
hazard  analysis,  supporting  documentation  of  the  hazard  analysis,  a written  HACCP 
plan,  and  decisionmaking  documents  associated  with  selection  and  development  of 
CCPs  and  critical  limits. 

a.  If  the  establishment’s  use  of  instructional  statements  concerning  E.  co// 01 57:H7 
is  not  reflected  in  its  decisionmaking  documents  or  hazard  analysis,  the  establishment 
is  not  in  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5,  because  its  records  do  not  show  that  the 
establishment  has  considered  its  use  of  these  instructional  statements  in  its  hazard 
analysis  or  HACCP  plan. 

b.  If  the  instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  serve  as  controls  or  CCPs  to  address 
E.  coli  0157:H7,  the  establishment  is  not  in  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5  because  the 
establishment’s  decisionmaking  documents  or  hazard  analysis  cannot  support  its  use  of 
instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  as  controls  or  CCPs. 

c.  If  the  establishment  has  used  instructional  or  disclaimer  statements  to  justify  its 
determination  that  E.  coli  0157:H7  is  NOT  a hazard  reasonably  likely  to  occur,  the 
establishment  is  not  in  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5  because  the  establishment’s 
decisionmaking  documents  or  hazard  analysis  incorrectly  concluded  that  labeling 
statements  would  prevent  E.  coli  0157:H7  from  becoming  a hazard  reasonably  likely  to 
occur  in  the  establishment. 

d.  If  an  establishment  receiving  product  with  instructional  or  disclaimer  statements 
has  not  addressed  the  use  of  such  products  in  its  decisionmaking  documents  or  hazard 
analysis,  or  does  not  have  data  to  validate  that  these  products  will  receive  adequate 
lethality  treatment,  the  establishment  is  not  in  compliance  with  9 CFR  417.5  because  its 
records  do  not  show  that  the  establishment  has  adequately  addressed  the  use  of  these 

26 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


incoming  products  in  the  hazard  analysis  for  those  products  in  which  such  incoming 
products  will  be  used. 


Attachment  2 


PROCEDURES  FOR  SAMPLING  RAW  GROUND  BEEF  COMPONENTS  AND  RAW 
BEEF  PATTY  COMPONENTS: 

Refer  to  the  page  in  FSIS  Directive  10,210.1  that  corresponds  to  the  project  code  in  Block  14  of 
FSIS  Form  10,210-3,  Requested  Sample  Programs,  for  further  collection  instructions. 

Sample  Size: 

The  FSIS  laboratory  requires  approximately  1.5  pounds  (24  ounces  or  680  grams)  but  no  less 
than  1.25  pounds  (20  ounces  or  570  grams)  of  product. 

Sample  Chilling: 

If  the  sample  is  warmer  than  40°F/4.4°C  when  the  sample  is  taken,  place  it  in  a cooler  to  chill  it 
before  shipping. 

Prior  to  shipping  the  sample,  pre-chill  the  shipping  container  in  a refrigerated  cooler  that  is 
between  28°F  and  45°F  for  at  least  8 hours. 

Randomized  or  Representative  Sampling: 

As  best  as  practical,  select  a representative  sample  by  one  of  the  two  following  procedures: 

1 . Time:  Throughout  the  production  lot,  as  defined  by  the  establishment,  as  boxes  or  combo 
bins  are  filled,  collect  samples  at  random  times.  Use  standard  procedures  for  identifying 
“random  times”. 

if  random  times  are  not  practical  use  the  “Space”  option  below. 

2.  Space:  At  or  toward  the  end  of  the  production  lot,  as  defined  by  the  establishment,  note  the 
number  of  boxes  or  combo  bins  containing  the  requested  product  types.  Take  the  square  root 
of  that  number  and  round  up  to  the  next  whole  number  (i.e.,  if  the  number  of  boxes  is  29,  the 
square  root  is  5.38;  the  next  whole  number  is  6).  That  number,  or  no  more  than  10,  is  the 
number  of  containers  to  be  sampled. 

Use  a standard  random  number  procedure  to  select  which  containers  to  sample.  Select 
representative  samples  from  the  top  of  the  filled  boxes  or  combo  bins.  These  pieces  should 
have  collected  representative  bacteria  from  the  product  contact  surfaces  during  the  course  of 
production. 

Sampling  Procedure: 

There  will  be  three  basic  sampling  procedures  based  on  size  of  sample  pieces: 

1 . Very  small  pieces  less  than  the  size  of  an  ordinary  thumb,  such  as  AMR,  or  LBT/LFTB. 

For  very  small  pieces,  use  the  laboratory-supplied  scoop  or  spoon  to  collect  the  sample. 

2.  Small  pieces  less  than  the  size  of  an  ordinary  palm,  such  as  head  meat  or  trimming. 

For  small  pieces,  use  the  laboratory-supplied  scoop,  tongs,  or  hook  to  collect  the  sample. 


28 


FSIS  Directive  10,010.1,  Revision  1 


3.  Chunks  and  pieces  larger  than  an  ordinary  palm,  such  as  chucks  and  plates: 

Call  for  help  from  an  establishment  employee  with  an  establishment  knife  and  laboratory- 
supplied  hook.  Have  the  employee  sanitize  knife  and  hook  in  the  same  manner  as  is  done  on 
the  boning/trim  line.  From  each  of  the  designated  containers  (or  during  the  day)  "Grab 
sample"  pieces  with  the  hook.  From  each  piece,  slice  a thumb  to  palm-sized  piece  of  surface, 
no  thicker  than  14  inch  (or  1 cm).  Place  the  samples  into  the  sterile  sample  bag,  using  the 
hook  or  laboratory-supplied  tongs. 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
Printing  Management  Section 
5601  Sunny  side  Avenue,  Mail  Drop  5241 
Belts\iUe,  MD  20705-5241 

FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 

USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 

OEFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 

S If 75 
• 051  7 

/ffp- 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


• 

FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


10,200.1 


7/19/01 


Accessing  Laboratory  Sample  Information  via  LEARN 

I.  PURPOSE 


What  is  the  purpose  of  this  directive? 


The  purpose  of  this  directive  is  to  instruct  FSIS  personnel  in  how  to  use  the  Laboratory 
Electronic  Application  for  Results  Notification  (LEARN)  system  to  obtain  information 
about  samples  submitted  to  FSIS  laboratories  for  analysis  and  what  to  do  with  the 
information. 


II.  [RESERVED] 

III.  [RESERVED] 

IV.  REFERENCES 

9 CFR  Chapter  III 

V.  TERMINOLOGY 


A.  What  terms  are  used  in  this  directive? 


1 . Intranet  - An  internal  web  site  accessible  only  by  the  organization’s  employees  or 
others  with  authorization.  The  internet  can  be  used  by  anyone;  an  intranet  can  be 
used  only  by  those  who  have  permission  to  use  it. 


2.  Potential  positive  - When  the  initial  screen  test  is  positive  during  the  analysis  for  E. 
coli  01 57:H7.  Further  testing  is  required  to  confirm  the  presence  or  absence  of  E.  coli 
0157-.H7. 


3.  Presumptive  positive  - When  the  initial  analytical  steps  of  a microbiological 
analysis  indicate  the  strong  possibility  that  the  organism  or  toxin  in  question  is  present. 
Additional  analytical  steps  are  needed  to  confirm  the  presence  or  absence  of  the 
organism  or  toxin. 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors; 
Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  PRD;  Import 
Offices;Field  Service  Laboratories 


OPI:  OPPDE 


4.  Positive,  not  violative  - In  residue  testing,  when  the  analyte  is  present,  but  at  or 
below  the  tolerance  level  set  by  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  or 
Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA). 

5.  Violative  - In  residue  testing,  when  the  analyte  is  present,  above  the  tolerance 
level  set  by  the  FDA  or  EPA. 

6.  Acceptable  - When  the  results  of  all  analyses  performed  on  a sample  are  negative 
or  satisfactory. 

7.  Not  Acceptable  - When  the  results  of  one  or  more  analyses  performed  on  a sample 
are  positive  or  not  satisfactory. 

8.  Set  Pass  - When  the  Salmonella  sample  set  has  less  than  or  equal  to  the 
maximum  number  of  positives  allowed  to  achieve  the  performance  standard. 

9.  Set  Fail  - When  the  Salmonella  sample  set  has  more  than  the  maximum  number 
of  positives  allowed  to  achieve  the  performance  standard. 

10.  Indeterminate  - Sample  results  cannot  be  determined  from  available  data. 

1 1 . Non-regulatory  - Analysis  results  are  for  information  only;  no  regulatory  action  will 
be  taken  based  on  these  results. 

VI.  BACKGROUND 
What  is  LEARN? 

LEARN  is  a computer  application  that  transmits  laboratory  results  such  as 
microbiological,  food  chemistry,  and  residue  analyses  performed  at  FSIS  laboratories. 
This  system  will  have  the  capability  to  make  laboratory  sample  information  available  to 
FSIS  program  personnel,  establishments,  and  State  officials.  LEARN  will  replace  the 
multiple  applications  currently  reporting  results  through  the  HPDesk  system. 

VII.  SAMPLE  INFORMATION 

A.  Who  will  have  access  to  the  sample  information? 

All  FSIS  personnel  with  a FSIS  Exchange  server  login  will  have  access  to  the  LEARN 
intranet  page.  Within  this  page,  a user  may  be  limited  to  what  sample  information  he 
or  she  may  access,  such  as  to  information  only  within  a circuit  or  district. 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  10,200.1 


B.  For  which  types  of  samples  will  there  be  information  available  on  LEARN? 

LEARN  will  provide  sample  information  about  pathogens,  species  identification,  food 
chemistry,  and  residue  testing.  The  information  will  cover  domestic,  import,  and  State 
samples. 

C.  For  which  types  of  samples  will  there  be  no  information  available  on  LEARN? 

Enforcement  or  investigative  sample  information  will  not  be  available  at  this  time. 
Additional  types  of  Information  may  be  added  as  dictated  by  the  specific  program 
areas. 

D.  What  type  of  sample  information  will  be  transmitted  via  LEARN? 

1 . Notification  that  a sample  has  been  received  at  an  FSIS  laboratory,  and  that  the 
sample  is  either  analyzable  or  has  been  discarded. 

2.  Notification  that  a sample  result  will  be  delayed  and  an  expected  completion  date. 

3.  Potential  positive  or  presumptive  positive  results  (for  microbial  pathogens). 

4.  Final  results. 

5.  Other  sample  information  may  be  added  as  enhancements  to  LEARN.  This 
information  will  be  defined  on  help  screens  available  on  the  LEARN  intranet  page. 

E.  How  soon  will  the  sample  information  be  available  via  LEARN? 

1 . The  LEARN  application  will  periodically  check  the  laboratory  databases  for  new 
sample  information  to  be  uploaded  on  the  LEARN  Intranet  page.  Sample  information 
is  entered  into  the  FSIS  laboratories’  databases  throughout  each  day.  Users  should 
take  Into  consideration  the  location  of  the  laboratory  to  which  a sample  has  been  sent. 
For  example,  the  Western  Lab  will  be  posting  data  about  3 hours  later  than  the 
Eastern  Lab. 

2.  Once  a sample  has  been  shipped  to  an  FSIS  laboratory  for  analysis,  the  IIC  should 
check  LEARN  the  following  afternoon  for  sample  receipt  confirmation,  and  at  least 
once  daily  until  final  results  are  posted.  Timely  retrieval  of,  and  action  on,  sample 
information  is  important. 

F.  How  long  will  the  sample  information  be  avaiiable  on  LEARN? 

Sample  Information  will  be  posted  on  the  LEARN  Intranet  page  for  at  least  two  weeks. 


Page  3 


G.  How  will  final  results  be  reported? 

1 . Pathogens  (ready-to-eat  (RTE)  meat  and  poultry  product  samples,  raw  beef 
product  samples  for  E.  coli  0157:H7,  pasteurized  egg  product  samples)  - Acceptable 
or  Not  Acceptable 

2.  Salmonella  PR/HACCP  compliance  completed  sets  - Set  Pass  or  Set  Fail 

3.  Species  Identification  - Acceptable  or  Not  Acceptable 

4.  Food  Chemistry  - Acceptable  or  Not  Acceptable 

5.  Residue  - Not  Detected,  Positive,  Not  Violative  and  Violative 

6.  Any  reported  sample  - Indeterminate  or  Non-regulatory 

NOTE:  For  samples  submitted  for  multiple  analyses,  any  positive  or  otherwise  violative 
analysis  result  will  be  reported  as  soon  as  determined.  Otherwise,  if  all  analyses  are 
negative  or  non-violative  the  results  will  be  reported  when  all  analyses  are  completed. 

VIII.  LEARN  APPLICATION 

A.  How  will  FSIS  personnel  access  the  LEARN  application? 

1 . Employees  must  first  log  on  to  the  USDAFSIS  domain  through  the  initial  log-on 
screen  when  their  computer  is  first  turned  on.  Only  after  a valid  user  ID  and  password 
have  been  supplied  will  an  employee  be  able  to  access  the  FSIS  Intranet.  For 
employees  accessing  the  USDAFSIS  domain  via  a modem,  the  normal  connection 
procedures  required  to  access  the  Agency's  e-mail  system  are  sufficient  to  gain 
access  to  the  FSIS  Intranet. 

2.  To  access  sample  information,  open  the  Microsoft  Internet  Explorer  browser  and 
go  to  the  intranet  address  that  will  be  provided  by  FSIS’s  Automated  Information 
Systems  Division.  This  address  may  then  be  added  to  the  “Favorites”  pull-down  menu 
for  easy  future  access. 

3.  Employees  should  close  the  Microsoft  Internet  Explorer  browser  when  finished 
accessing  LEARN  for  security  reasons. 

B.  What  will  the  user  see  upon  entering  the  LEARN  application? 

1 . Inspection  program  personnel  and  circuit  supervisors  will  see  a screen  with  two 
large  blocks:  “Find  a single  establishment,”  or  “List  all  establishments  in  a circuit.” 


Page  4 


FSIS  Directive  10,200.1 


2.  If  the  user  is  looking  for  information  for  a specific  establishment,  he  or  she  will 
select  the  “Find  a single  establishment”  block  and  then  enter  the  establishment 
number.  Sample  Information  for  that  establishment  will  be  listed  in  order  of  date 
posted.  The  user  will  then  click  on  the  desired  sample  to  link  to  a detailed  report  of 
the  information  for  that  sample. 

3.  The  second  block  on  the  opening  screen,  “List  all  establishments  in  a circuit,”  is 
tailored  for  circuit  supervisors  and  patrol  inspectors  who  would  like  to  see  the  results 
of  various  establishments  at  a time  without  having  to  enter  the  establishment  number 
for  each  establishment  In  his  or  her  circuit  or  patrol  one  by  one  on  the  single 
establishment  block.  This  option  provides  sample  Information  for  all  the 
establishments  in  the  selected  circuit.  It  also  offers  filters  for  the  user  to  narrow  the  list 
to  a type  of  establishment  (meat,  poultry,  egg  products,  import,  or  all),  and  a particular 
type  of  result  (e.g.  residues,  ready-to-eat  micro,  food  chemistry).  As  in  the  single 
establishment  option,  the  user  may  see  a detailed  report  of  a specific  sample  available 
by  clicking  that  sample 

4.  District,  Technical  Service  Center,  and  headquarters  users  will  see  a different 
initial  screen  that  is  designed  for  their  needs.  This  screen  offers  the  user  the  option  to 
view  the  results  of  a single  establishment  only,  the  results  for  all  establishments  in  a 
given  circuit  or  district,  or  all  establishments  in  the  country.  If  the  “Individual 
Establishment  Results”  option  is  selected,  a second  screen  is  displayed  for  the  user  to 
specify  the  establishment  number.  If  the  circuit,  district,  or  management  option  is 
selected,  the  second  screen  obtained  allows  the  user  to  narrow  the  list  of  results 
obtained  to  a particular  type  of  establishment,  type  of  result,  and  when  the  results 
were  posted.  Once  the  list  of  individual  samples  meeting  the  selection  criteria  are 
displayed,  the  user  can  see  a detailed  report  of  a specific  sample  by  clicking  on  that 
sample’s  type. 

IX.  POLICY 

A.  What  do  inspection  program  personnel  do  with  the  information/results? 

1.  Inspection  program  personnel  should  immediately  provide  the  information  to  the 
establishment  management  and  take  any  necessary  action  according  to  the 
appropriate  regulations  and  directives. 

2.  For  negative  residue  results,  inspection  program  personnel  should  notify  the 
establishment  management  and  release  the  carcass  or  product,  when  applicable.  For 
positive  but  not  violative  and  violative  residue  results,  inspection  program  personnel 
may  notify  the  establishment  management  but  are  not  to  take  any  enforcement  action 
until  directed  by  the  Technical  Service  Center. 


Page  5 


3.  The  LEARN  application  will  automatically  e-mail  sample  information  to  the 
establishment,  if  the  establishment  has  provided  FSIS  with  an  e-mail  address  on  FSIS 
Form  10,230-2.  However,  inspection  program  personnel  will  provide  establishment 
management  with  the  sample  information  as  well. 

NOTE:  Sample  information  may  only  be  provided  to  the  establishment  from  which  the 
sample  was  collected. 

B.  What  do  compliance  officers  do  with  the  information/results? 

Compliance  Officers  will  have  access  to  Federal  establishment  laboratory  sample 
information  and  will  be  responsible  for  raw  ground  beef  sample  information  submitted 
under  the  retail  ground  beef  sampling  program  for  E.  coli  0157:H7.  Instructions  for 
accessing  these  results  will  be  issued  separately.  Compliance  officers  should  notify 
the  retail  establishment  from  which  the  sample  was  collected.  Retail  stores  do  not 
currently  have  the  option  to  receive  their  results  via  electronic  mail. 

C.  What  if  there  are  problems  accessing  the  intranet  page? 

Program  personnel  expecting  sample  information,  and  having  problems  accessing  the 
intranet  page,  should  contact  either  their  circuit  supervisor  (CS)  or  district  office  (DO). 
The  CS  or  DO  may  be  able  to  access  the  page  and  provide  the  sample  information 
needed. 

D.  Can  establishments  access  their  own  sample  information? 

Establishments  may  not  access  this  intranet  page.  However,  an  establishment  may 
have  their  sample  information  e-mailed  to  them  by  completing  FSIS  Form  10,230-2 
(available  from  the  district  office)  and  faxing  it  to  Office  of  Public  Health  and  Science. 
The  sample  information  will  be  e-mailed  to  the  establishment  at  the  same  time  it  is 
posted  to  the  intranet  page. 

E.  How  will  State-inspected  establishments  receive  their  results  from  FSIS 
laboratories? 

State-inspected  establishments,  for  which  FSIS  laboratories  analyze  samples,  do  not 
currently  have  the  option  to  receive  their  results  via  electronic  mail.  Therefore,  each 
State  has  identified  a State  official  to  whom  sample  information  may  be  e-mailed  so 
that  the  sample  information  can  be  provided  to  the  State-inspected  establishment. 


Page  6 


FSIS  Directive  10,200.1 


X.  GUIDANCE 

Contact  the  Technical  Service  Center  for  further  information  and  guidance  regarding 
the  LEARN  application. 


Deputy  Administrator 
Office  of  Policy,  Program  Development 
and  Evaluation 


Page  7 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
Room  01 57 -South  Building 
Washington,  DC 
20250 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 

USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


#> 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  DC 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


10,240.4 


10/2/03 


Verification  Procedures  for  the  Listeria  monocytogenes  Reguiation  and 
Microbial  Sampling  of  Ready-to-Eat  (RTE)  Products  for  the  FSIS  Verification 

Testing  Program 

PART  I - GENERAL 


I.  PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  Consumer  Safety  Inspectors  (CSIs)  and  Consumer 
Safety  Officers  (CSOs)  with  instructions  for  verifying  whether  establishments  are 
complying  with  the  regulations  in  9 CFR  part  430,  Requirements  for  Specific 
Classes  of  Product  (Attachment  5).  In  addition,  this  directive  includes  verification 
procedures  for  ready-to-eat  (RTE)  products  other  than  those  applicable  to  9 CFR 
part  430. 

NOTE:  This  document  references  a number  of  resources.  CSIs  and  CSOs  will 
receive  these  resources  on  a disk.  The  directive  itself,  without  the  resources, 
contains  all  the  information  that  CSIs  and  CSOs  need  to  verify  the  sections  of 
9 CFR  430  relating  to  the  control  of  Listeria  monocytogenes  (L.  monocytogenes) 
in  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  meat  and  poultry  products. 

II.  CANCELLATION 

FSIS  Directive  10,240.3,  dated  12/9/02 

ill.  REASON  FOR  REISSUANCE 

To  provide  verification  instructions  for  9 CFR  Part  430  and  to  clarify  the  current 
sampling  instructions. 

IV.  REFERENCES 

FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1,  dated  05/21/03 
FSIS  Directive  5400.5,  dated  11/21/97 
FSIS  Directive  8080.1,  Revision  3,  dated  1/19/00 
FSIS  Directive  10,200.1  dated  7/19/01 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices;  T/A  Inspectors;  OPI:  OPPD 

Plant  Mgt;  T/A  Plant  Mgt;  TRA;  ABB;  TSC;Import  Offices 


Title  9 Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (CFR)  Part  416 
TitleQCFR  Part  417 
Title  9 CFR  Part  430 

Title  21  United  States  Code  (U.S.C.)  parts  453  and  601 

V.  BACKGROUND 

On  June  6,  2003,  the  Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service  (FSIS)  published  a 
final  rule  (68  FR  34207)  that  amended  its  regulations  to  require  that  official 
establishments  that  produce  certain  RTE  meat  and  poultry  products  prevent 
product  adulteration  by  the  pathogenic  environmental  contaminant  L 
monocytogenes.  In  particular,  9 CFR  430.1  sets  out  definitions  of  terms. 

9 CFR  430.4(a)  states  that  L monocytogenes  is  a hazard  that  an  establishment 
producing  a RTE  product  that  is  exposed  to  the  environment  must  control 
through  its  HACCP  plan  or  prevent  in  the  processing  environment  through  a 
Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite  program.  It  also  states  that  RTE  product  Is 
adulterated  if  it  contains  L.  monocytogenes  or  if  it  comes  into  direct  contact  with 
a food  contact  surface  that  is  contaminated  with  L monocytogenes.  9 CFR 
430.4(b)  sets  out  three  alternatives  that  establishments  producing  post-lethality 
exposed  RTE  product  are  to  choose  from  in  order  to  meet  the  requirements  of  9 
CFR  430.4(a).  CSIs  will  have  verification  responsibilities  related  to  the  regulatory 
requirements  of  9 CFR  430.4(b). 


2 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


PART  II  --  CSI  VERIFICATION  RESPONSIBILITIES 


CHAPTER  I CSI  Responsibilities  for  Verifying  Compliance  with  9 CFR 
part  430 

Upon  receipt  of  this  directive,  IlCs  are  to  hold  an  awareness  meeting  with 
the  establishment  management  and  ask  them  whether  they  produce  an  RTE 
product  that  is  exposed  to  the  environment  after  the  initial  lethality  step.  The 
establishment  is  not  required  to  comply  with  9 CFR  Part  430  if  the  RTE  products 
produced  in  the  establishment  are  not  exposed  to  the  environment  after  the 
lethality  step. 

If  the  establishment  is  producing  post-lethality  exposed  products,  the  CSI 
should  ask  establishment  management  which  alternative  they  have  chosen  for 
each  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  product  produced  by  the  establishment.  Also, 
the  CSI  is  to  inform  the  establishment  management  that,  as  set  out  in  9 CFR 
430.4(c)(7),  verification  results  that  demonstrate  the  effectiveness  of  the 
measures  the  establishment  employs  are  to  be  made  available  upon  request. 

CSIs,  using  the  appropriate  03  procedure,  are  to  verify  that  the  establishment 
is  meeting  the  requirements  of  the  alternative  that  it  has  chosen.  If  the 
establishment  decides  to  produce  different  products  using  different  alternatives, 
the  CSI  should  verify  that  the  establishment  meets  the  requirements  for  each  of 
the  alternatives  selected,  for  each  of  the  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  products. 

If  an  establishment  is  producing  post-lethality  exposed  products  and  has 
failed  to  attempt  to  meet  the  requirements  of  any  of  the  alternatives,  the  CSI 
should  contact  the  District  Office  (DO)  for  the  issuance  of  a Notice  of  Intended 
Enforcement  Action  (NOIE). 

NOTE:  Attachments  1-4  provide  flowcharts  that  set  out  the  requirements  of 
9 CFR  part  430. 

A.  What  are  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  430.4(b)(1), 
Alternative  1 ? 

Use  of  a post-lethality  treatment  (which  may  also  be  the  antimicrobial  agent 
or  process)  that  reduces  or  eliminates  microorganisms  on  the  product  AND  an 
antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that  suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of  L 
monocytogenes. 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  the  requirements  in 
Alternative  1 ? 

To  verify  compliance,  CSIs  are  to  follow  the  methodology  from  FSIS  Directive 
5000.1,  Revision  1 when  seeking  answers  to  questions  such  as: 


3 


1 . Is  the  post-lethality  treatment  (which  may  be  an  antimicrobial  agent) 
incorporated  in  the  HACCP  plan? 

2.  Does  the  establishment  have  validation  data  for  the  post-lethality 
treatment  in  accordance  with  9 CFR  417.4? 

3.  Is  the  establishment  implementing  the  post-lethality  treatment  as 
described  in  the  HACCP  plan? 

4.  Has  the  establishment  incorporated  the  use  of  the  antimicrobial  agent  or 
process  to  suppress  or  limit  the  growth  of  L monocytogenes  in  its  HACCP  plan, 
its  Sanitation  SOPs,  or  a prerequisite  program? 

NOTE:  If  CSIs  have  questions  regarding  the  validation  data,  they  should 
contact  the  Technical  Service  Center  (TSC)  or  a CSC  through  supervisory 
channels  about  the  adequacy  of  the  establishment’s  validation  data. 

C.  How  do  CSIs  document  noncompliance? 

If  the  answers  to  any  questions  in  B.  above  or  similar  questions  are  “no”, 
CSIs  are  to  issue  a FSIS  form  5400-4,  Noncompliance  Record  (NR)  under  the 
appropriate  03  ISP  code  as  described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1 and 
reference  9 CFR  430.4(b)(1)  and  the  appropriate  section  of  417  (for  HACCP 
and  prerequisite  programs)  or  416.14  ( for  Sanitation  SOP).  CSIs  are  to  verify 
that  the  establishment  takes  corrective  and  preventive  action  to  bring  itself  into 
compliance  with  9 CFR  Part  430.  Such  actions  may  include  a reassessment  of 
the  HACCP  plan  and  the  establishment’s  choice  of  another  alternative. 

D.  What  are  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  430.4(b)(2), 

Alternative  2? 

Use  of  either  a post-lethality  treatment  (which  may  be  an  antimicrobial  agent  or 
process)  that  reduces  or  eliminates  microorganisms  on  the  product  OR  an 
antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that  suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of  L 
monocytogenes 

Choice  1 - An  establishment  that  produces  post-lethality  exposed  product  that 
selects  this  alternative  and  chooses  to  use  a post-lethality  treatment  (which  may 
be  an  antimicrobial  agent)  that  reduces  or  eliminates  microorganisms  on  the 
product: 

OR 

Choice  2 - An  establishment  that  produces  post-lethality  exposed  product  and 
that  selects  this  alternative  and  chooses  to  use  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process 
that  suppresses  or  limits  growth  of  L monocytogenes. 


4 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


E.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  the  requirements  in 
Alternative  2? 

When  verifying  compliance  with  Alternative  2,  CSIs  are  to  seek  answers 
to  the  questions  from  paragraph  B.  Alternative  2 is  based  on  the  same 
requirements  as  Alternative  1 , except  that  the  establishment  can  choose  to  just 
have  a post-lethality  treatment  that  meets  the  requirements  of  B.  1-3  above 
(Choice  1 ),  or  to  just  use  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  to  suppress  or  limit 
the  growth  of  L.  monocytogenes  throughout  the  shelf  life  of  the  product  that 
meets  the  requirements  of  B.  4 above  (Choice  2).  Also,  if  the  establishment 
chooses  Choice  2,  the  CSI  should  seek  answers  to  the  following: 

Does  the  establishment’s  testing  for  verifying  the  on-going  effectiveness 
of  their  sanitation  procedures: 

1 . provide  for  testing  of  food  contact  surfaces  in  the  post-lethality 
processing  environment  to  ensure  that  the  surfaces  are  sanitary  and  free  of  L 
monocytogenes  or  of  an  indicator  organism? 

2.  identify  the  conditions  under  which  the  establishment  will  implement 
hold-and-test  procedures  following  a positive  test  of  a food-contact  surface  for  L 
monocytogenes  or  an  Indicator  organism? 

3.  state  the  frequency  with  which  testing  will  be  done? 

4.  Identify  the  size  and  location  of  the  sites  that  will  be  sampled? 

5.  Include  an  explanation  of  why  the  testing  frequency  is  sufficient  to 
ensure  that  effective  control  of  L monocytogenes,  or  an  Indicator  organism,  is 
maintained? 

F.  How  do  CSIs  document  noncompliance? 

If  the  answers  to  any  of  the  questions  or  similar  questions  are  “no”,  CSIs 
are  to  issue  a FSIS  form  5400-4,  Noncompliance  Record,  NR  under  the 
appropriate  ISP  code  as  described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1 and 
reference  9 CFR  430.4(b)(2)  and,  depending  where  the  use  of  the  antimicrobial 
agent  or  process  is  addressed,  either  the  appropriate  section  of  9 CFR  417  (for 
HACCP  or  prerequisite  programs)  or  the  appropriate  section  of  416  (Sanitation 
SOP).  CSIs  are  to  verify  that  the  establishment  takes  corrective  and  preventive 
action  to  bring  itself  into  compliance  with  9 CFR  part  430.  Such  actions  may 
include  a reassessment  of  the  HACCP  plan  and  the  establishment’s  choice  of 
another  alternative. 


5 


G.  What  are  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  430.4(b)(3), 
Alternative  3? 

Use  of  sanitation  measures  only 

H.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compliance  with  the  requirements  in 
Alternative  3? 

To  determine  compliance,  CSIs  are  to  seek  answers  to  questions  such  as: 

Does  the  establishment  that  produces  post-lethality  exposed  product  and 
that  selects  this  alternative  have  on-going  verification  testing  procedures  that 
are  designed  to: 

1.  have  sanitation  measures  incorporated  in  its  HACCP  plan,  Sanitation 
SOP,  or  other  prerequisite  program? 

2.  test  food  contact  surfaces  in  the  post-lethality  processing  environment 
to  ensure  that  the  surfaces  are  sanitary  and  free  of  L monocytogenes  or  of  an 
indicator  organism? 

3.  identify  the  conditions  under  which  the  establishment  will  implement 
hold-and-test  procedures  following  a positive  test  of  food  contact  surfaces  forL 
monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism? 

4.  state  the  frequency  with  which  the  testing  will  be  done? 

5.  identify  the  size  and  location  of  the  sites  that  will  be  sampled? 

6.  include  an  explanation  of  why  the  testing  frequency  is  sufficient  to 
ensure  that  effective  control  of  L monocytogenes,  or  of  an  indicator  organism, 
is  maintained? 

Also,  does  an  establishment  producing  a deli  product  or  a hotdog  product: 

1 . verify  that  its  corrective  actions  are  effective  with  respect  to  sanitation 
after  an  initial  positive  In  the  post-lethality  processing  environment  are  effective 
by  follow-up  testing  that  Includes  a targeted  test  of  the  specific  site  on  the  food 
contact  surface  area  as  necessary  to  ensure  effectiveness  of  the  corrective 
actions? 

2.  hold  lots  of  product  that  may  have  become  contaminated  by  contact  with 
the  food  contact  surface  until  the  establishment  corrects  the  problem  indicated 
by  the  test  result,  during  this  follow-up  testing,  if  the  establishment  obtains  a 
second  positive  test  for  L.  monocytogenes,  or  an  indicator  organism? 

3.  sample  and  test  the  lots  for  L.  monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism 
using  a sampling  method  and  frequency  that  will  provide  a level  of  statistical 
confidence  that  ensures  that  each  lot  is  not  adulterated  with  L monocytogenes. 


6 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


in  order  to  be  able  to  release  into  commerce  the  lots  of  product  that  may  have 
been  contaminated  with  L.  monocytogenes? 

4.  document  the  results  of  the  testing? 

5.  rework  the  held  product  using  a process  that  Is  destructive  of  L 
monocytogenes  or  the  indicator  organism? 

I.  How  do  CSIs  document  noncompliance? 

If  the  answers  to  any  the  questions  or  similar  questions  are  “no”,  CSIs  are  to 
issue  a FSIS  form  5400-4,  Noncompliance  Record,  NR  under  the  appropriate 
ISP  code  as  described  in  FSIS  Directive  5000.1,  Revision  1 and  reference 
9 CFR  430.4(b)(3)  and,  depending  where  the  use  of  the  antimicrobial  agent  or 
process  is  addressed,  either  the  appropriate  section  of  9 CFR  417  (for  HACCP 
or  prerequisite  programs)  or  the  appropriate  section  of  416  (Sanitation  SOP). 
CSIs  are  to  verify  that  the  establishment  takes  corrective  and  preventive  action 
to  bring  itself  into  compliance  with  9 CFR  Part  430.  Such  actions  may  Include  a 
reassessment  of  the  HACCP  plan  to  determine  whether  the  decisions  made  in 
the  hazard  analysis  regarding  the  use  of  the  prerequisite  program  remain  valid. 

CHAPTER  2 CSIs  Responsibilities  in  Verifying  9 CFR  of  430.4(e) 

A.  What  are  the  regulatory  requirements  of  9 CFR  430.4(e)? 

9 CFR  430.4(e)  states:  “An  establishment  that  controls  L monocytogenes  by 
using  a post-lethality  treatment  or  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that 
eliminates  or  reduces,  or  suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of  the  organism  may 
declare  this  fact  on  the  product  label  provided  that  the  establishment  has 
validated  the  claim/' 

B.  How  do  CSIs  verify  compiiance  with  this  regulatory  requirement? 

The  CSI  should  verify  that  the  establishment  has  documented  that  the 
labeling  claim  is  accurate,  that  the  establishment  has  data  to  support  the  claim, 
and  that  the  establishment  has  a sketch  label  approval  on  file. 

If  the  CSI  has  concerns  about  the  validation  data  supporting  the  claim,  he  or 
she  should  contact  the  TSC  or  a CSC  through  supervisory  channels  for 
technical  information.  If  the  establishment  does  not  have  data  to  support  the 
claim,  the  noncompliance  would  be  documented  on  an  NR  using  the 
appropriate  HACCP  procedure  code  and  reference  430.4(e)  and  417.5. 


7 


CHAPTER  3 CSIs  Responsibilities  For  Collecting  Samples  of  RTE  Product 

A.  How  do  CSIs  collect  samples  of  RTE  Products? 

NOTE:  The  following  instructions  will  apply  until  FSIS  has  Alternative  and 
production  volume  information  available  to  develop  the  new  risk-based  RTE 
sampling  program.  At  that  time  this  directive  will  be  revised  and  any  additional 
issuance(s)  provided. 

1 . When  the  Office  of  Public  Health  and  Science  (OPHS)  schedules  a 
RTE  sample  to  be  taken  at  an  establishment,  the  CSI  receives  FSIS  Form 
10,210-3,  “Requested  Sample  Programs.”  Once  the  form  is  received,  the  CSI  is 
to  always  collect  a RTE  product  sample. 

2.  If  a specific  product  is  not  pre-selected  for  sampling  in  Block  18  of  the 
sample  request  form,  the  CSI  should  sample  products  based  on  the  following 
priority: 

a.  Post-Lethality  Exposed  RTE  Products  under  Alternative  3: 

1 . Deli  meats 

2.  Hotdogs 

3.  Deli  salads,  pate,  meat  spreads 

4.  other  product 

b.  If  no  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  products  are  produced  using 
Alternative  3 criteria,  then  sample  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  products 
using  Alternative  2 criteria  in  the  following  order: 

1 . Sample  product  produced  using  only  a growth  inhibitor 

2.  Sample  product  produced  using  post-lethality  treatment 

c.  If  no  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  products  are  produced  using 
Alternative  3 or  2 criteria,  then  sample  post-lethality  exposed  RTE 
products  using  Alternative  1 criteria. 

d.  If  no  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  products  are  produced,  then  sample 
any  RTE  product  that  is  not  produced  using  an  antimicriobial  agent  or 
process  and  likely  will  be  used  as  a deli-type  item,  such  as  a cook-in-bag 
roast  beef. 

e.  If  none  of  the  above  is  available,  select  any  other  RTE  product. 

Again,  most  importantly,  CSIs  are  to  collect  a RTE  sample. 


8 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


3.  CSIs  are  to  verify  that  all  product  represented  by  the  sample  (i.e.,  the 
sampled  lot)  is  held  by  the  establishment,  should  it  elect  to  do  so. 

4.  If  possible,  only  collect  and  mail  the  samples  from  the  establishment's 
current  day’s  production  that  has  passed  the  establishment’s  pre-shipment 
record  review  (see  9 CFR  417.5(c)).  If  not  possible,  such  as  in  establishments 
where  production  is  held  off-site  before  completion  of  the  pre-shipment  record 
review,  or  the  pre-shipment  record  review  is  performed  at  a later  date,  but  there 
are  no  additional  lethality  or  other  pathogen  control  steps,  collect  samples  of  the 
current  day’s  production,  refrigerate  or  freeze  them,  keep  them  in  a secure 
location,  and  postpone  mailing  the  samples  until  the  pre-shipment  record  review 
is  complete,  and  the  product  is  eligible  for  shipment.  After  the  establishment 
completes  the  pre-shipment  record  review,  CSIs  should  prepare  the  samples  to 
be  sent  to  the  laboratory  on  the  next  available  Federal  Express  pickup  day. 

5.  Complete  all  requested  information  in  Part  II  of  the  FSIS  form  10,210-3. 
The  FSIS  laboratories  will  discard  any  samples  with  incomplete  forms.  Record 
an  unscheduled  05B02  on  the  procedure  schedule. 

6.  CSIs  will  be  provided  product  sample  status  information  and  results 
through  the  LEARN  System  (see  FSIS  Directive  10,200.1).  CSIs  should 
provide  this  Information  to  establishment  management  even  if  the 
establishment  receives  e-mail  notifications  from  OPHS. 

7.  When  necessary,  program  personnel,  other  than  CSIs,  collect  samples 
from  food  contact  surfaces. 

CHAPTER  4 CSI  Responsibilities  Regarding  Enforcement 

FSIS  makes  the  following  determinations  regarding  adulteration  based  on  the 
circumstances: 

A.  Pathogen  in  a product  sample. 

1 . If  any  RTE  product  sample  collected  by  FSIS  or  by  the  establishment 
(after  pre-shipment  review)  tests  positive  for  a pathogen  of  public  health  concern, 
product  in  the  sampled  lot  Is  adulterated.  CSIs  are  to  issue  an  NR  using  the 
appropriate  03  ISP  code  and  FSIS  will  request  a recall  If  any  product  In  the 
sampled  lot  has  been  shipped. 

NOTE:  If  the  positive  result  is  from  an  establishment  test  and  the  establishment 
held  the  affected  product,  CSIs  are  not  to  issue  an  NR  unless  the  establishment 
fails  to  comply  with  2-3  below. 

2.  CSIs  are  to  verify  that  establishments  implement  corrective  actions  In 
accordance  with  9 CFR  417.3(a)  (under  HACCP),  9 CFR  416.15  (under 
Sanitation  SOPs),  or  9 CFR  417.4(a)(3)  (under  prerequisite  programs). 


9 


3.  CSIs  are  to  verify  the  establishment  disposition  of  the  sampled  product 
lot,  by  verifying  that  the  establishment  has  documentation  to  support  that 
potential  contamination  would  be  limited  to  individual  production  lines  and  for 
individual  products  and  by  verifying  the  establishment  has  destroyed  the 
sampled  lot  or  whether  it  has  reworked  the  sampled  lot  with  a process  that  is 
destructive  of  L monocytogenes. 

B.  Pathogen  on  a food  contact  surface  sample. 

1 .  If  a post-lethality  exposed  RTE  food  contact  surface  sample  collected 
by  FSIS  or  by  the  establishment  (after  pre-shipment  review)  tests  positive  for  a 
pathogen  of  public  health  concern,  product  passing  over  the  surface  is 
adulterated.  CSIs  are  to  issue  an  NR  using  the  appropriate  03  ISP  code  and 
FSIS  will  request  a recall  if  any  product  in  the  sampled  lot  has  been  shipped. 

NOTE:  If  the  positive  result  is  from  an  establishment  test  and  the  establishment 
held  the  affected  product,  CSIs  are  not  to  issue  an  NR  unless  the  establishment 
fails  to  comply  with  2 - 3 below. 

2.  CSIs  are  to  verify  that  establishments  implement  corrective  actions  in 
accordance  with  9 CFR  417.3(a)  (under  HACCP),  9 CFR  416.15  (under 
Sanitation  SOPs),  or  9 CFR  417.4(a)(3)  (under  prerequisite  programs). 

3.  CSIs  are  to  verify  the  establishment  disposition  of  the  sampled  product 
lot,  by  verifying  that  the  establishment  has  documentation  to  support  that 
potential  contamination  would  be  limited  to  individual  production  lines  and  for 
individual  products  and  by  verifying  the  establishment  has  destroyed  the 
sampled  lot  or  whether  it  has  reworked  the  sampled  lot  with  a process  that  is 
destructive  of  L monocytogenes. 

4.  The  DO  may  coordinate  scheduling  intensified  verification  sampling 
through  OPHS  to  verify  the  establishment’s  corrective  and  preventive  measures. 
This  sampling  should  not  be  initiated  until  the  corrective  and  preventive 
measures  have  been  put  in  place. 

NOTE:  An  establishment  may  or  may  not  conduct  environmental  sampling, 
other  than  on  food  contact  surfaces,  under  its  HACCP  plan.  Sanitation  SOPs,  or 
a prerequisite  program.  If  the  establishment  is  conducting  such  sampling,  and 
positive  results  are  received,  CSIs  are  to  verify  that  the  establishment  takes  the 
appropriate  action  as  outlined  in  the  program  under  which  the  sampling  is 
conducted.  If  the  establishment  is  conducting  such  sampling,  but  is  not 
addressing  the  sampling  under  HACCP,  Sanitation  SOPs,  or  a prerequisite 
program  and  CSIs  find  that  such  sampling  is  resulting  is  persistent  positive 
results,  CSIs  are  to  notify  the  DO.  Also,  FSIS  personnel,  other  than  CSIs,  may 
conduct  environmental  sampling  when  necessary  and  as  directed  by  the  DO. 


10 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


PART  III  --  CSO  Assessment  of  Compliance  with  9 CFR  part  430 

The  CSO  should  understand  the  public  health  risks  associated  with  post- 
lethality exposed  RTE  products  and  processes.  Some  products  and  processes 
pose  greater  potential  risks  for  L monocytogenes  causing  human  illness  and 
disease  in  the  form  of  listeriosis  than  others  do.  For  example,  product  in 
alternative  3 likely  will  present  greater  risk  than  product  in  alternative  2,  and 
product  in  alternative  2 likely  will  present  greater  risk  than  product  in  alternative 
1 . Also,  dell  product  and  hotdog  product  likely  will  present  greater  risk  than  most 
other  product  within  each  alternative.  However,  other  than  deli  product  and 
hotdog  product,  deli  meat  salads  and  pate/meat  spreads  likely  will  present 
greater  risk  than  other  RTE  products.  Consequently,  when  considering  how  to 
focus  verification  activity  within  the  establishment  when  the  establishment  makes 
a variety  of  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  products,  more  attention  should  be 
allotted  to  the  products  and  processes  that  present  the  greatest  potential  for 
causing  illness  and  disease. 

When  CSOs  go  into  an  establishment  that  is  producing  post-lethality 
exposed  products,  they  are  to  conduct  a complete  comprehensive  assessment 
of  the  food  safety  systems  in  operation.  Specifically,  CSOs  will  need  to 
evaluate  some  design  issues  relevant  only  to  post-lethality  exposed  RTE 
products. 

To  assess  that  the  establishments  have  properly  addressed  the  use  of  a 
post-lethality  step  (Alternative  1 or  the  first  choice  in  Alternative  2),  CSOs 
should  review  the  establishment’s  HACCP  plan  and  HACCP  supporting 
documentation  to  verify  that  post-lethality  has  been  adequately  validated  so  that 
it  prevents,  eliminates,  or  reduces  the  pathogens  of  concern  on  the  product  to 
an  undetectable  level. 

If  the  establishment  has  based  its  validation  on  challenge  studies  or 
research  articles  from  scientific  publications,  the  CSOs  should  assess  whether 
conditions  in  the  establishment,  such  as  Ingredients,  concentration  of 
antimicrobial  agent,  pH,  moisture,  are  Identical  to  those  found  in  the  challenge 
studies  or  research  articles  from  scientific  publications.  If  the  conditions  are  not 
identical,  does  the  establishment  have  documentation  on  file  to  support  that  the 
controls  in  place  are  adequate  to  prevent,  eliminate,  or  reduce  to  undetectable 
levels  pathogens  on  the  product? 

With  regard  to  the  use  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  a process  used  to  suppress 
or  limit  the  growth  of  L monocytogenes  throughout  the  shelf  life  of  the  product 
(Alternative  1 or  Alternative  2,  choice  2),  the  CSO  should  assess  the 
documentation  in  whichever  program  the  use  of  the  antimicrobial  agent  or 
process  is  incorporated  (i.e.,  HACCP,  Sanitation  SOPs,  or  prerequisite 
programs),  to  determine  whether  it  demonstrates  the  production  of  safe 
product. 


11 


With  regard  to  the  testing  that  the  establishment  is  to  do  if  it  chooses 
Alternative  2,  choice  2,  the  CSO  should  assess  the  adequacy  of  how  the 
establishment: 

1 . tests  food  contact  surfaces  in  the  post-lethality  processing 
environment  to  ensure  that  the  surfaces  are  sanitary  and  free  of  L 
monocytogenes  or  of  an  indicator  organism, 

2.  identifies  the  conditions  under  which  the  establishment  will  implement 
hold-and-test  procedures  following  a positive  test  of  food  contact  surfaces  forL. 
monocytogenes  or  of  an  indicator  organism, 

3.  establishes  and  supports  the  frequency  with  which  the  testing  will  be 

done, 

4.  establishes  and  supports  the  size  and  location  of  the  sites  that  will  be 
sampled, 

5.  explains  and  supports  why  the  testing  frequency  is  sufficient  to  ensure 
that  effective  control  of  L monocytogenes  or  of  an  Indicator  organism  is 
maintained, 

6.  chooses  the  sites  that  are  most  likely  to  be  locations  to  find  L 
monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism, 

7.  supports  the  design  of  the  testing  to  detect  L.  monocytogenes  or  an 
indicator  organism. 

With  regard  to  the  testing  an  establishment  has  to  do  If  it  chooses 
Alternative  3,  CSOs  are  to  assess  all  the  factors  for  the  testing  in  Alternative  2 
as  well  as  in  establishments  that  produce  a deli  product  or  a hotdog  product, 
the  adequacy  of  how  the  establishment: 

1 .  verifies  that  corrective  actions  that  it  took  with  respect  to  sanitation 
after  an  initial  positive  test  for  L monocytogenes,  or  an  indicator  organism  on  a 
food  contact  surface  in  the  post-lethality  processing  environment  were  effective 
by  follow-up  testing  that  included  a targeted  test  of  the  specific  site  on  the  food 
contact  surface  area  as  was  necessary  to  ensure  effectiveness  of  the  corrective 
actions. 


2.  holds  lots  of  product  that  may  have  become  contaminated  by  contact 
with  the  food  contact  surface  during  follow-up  testing  after  the  establishment 
obtains  a second  positive  test, 

3.  samples  and  tests  the  lots  for  L monocytogenes  or  an  indicator 
organism  using  a sampling  method  and  frequency  that  provided  a level  of 
statistical  confidence  that  ensures  that  each  lot  is  not  adulterated  with  L 
monocytogenes  before  releasing  into  commerce  the  lots  of  product  that  may 
have  been  contaminated  with  L monocytogenes, 


12 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


4.  documents  the  results  of  the  testing,  and 

5.  reworks  held  product  using  a process  that  is  destructive  of  L 
monocytogenes  or  the  indicator  organism. 

When  the  CSO  completes  the  comprehensive  assessment  of  all  of  the  food 
safety  systems  in  operation  in  the  establishment,  he/she  should  complete  FSIS 
forrti  5000-8,  Comprehensive  Assessment  of  the  Execution  and  Design  of  an 
Establishment’s  Food  Safety  System.  The  findings  listed  in  this  report  should 
support  the  recommendations  made  by  the  CSO  that  the  establishment  is  in 
compliance,  or  that  further  enforcement  action  is  necessary. 

The  Compliance  Guidelines  to  Control  Listeria  Monocytogenes  in  Ready-to- 
Eat  Poultry  Products  will  be  provided  to  all  CSIs  and  CSOs  on  a disk.  These 
guidelines  can  be  used  as  references  for  a better  understanding  of  what  industry 
might  be  doing  to  control  L.  monocytogenes  In  post-lethality  exposed  RTE 
products. 


Assistant  Administrator 

Office  of  Policy  and  Program  Development 


13 


Control  of  L.  monocytogenes  in 
post-lethality  exposed  RTE 
products 


Attachment  1 
FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


STOP 


No 


Does  the 
establishment 
produce  RTE 
product? 


Yes 


Establishment  is  not 

Is  the  RTE  product 

required  to  meet  the 
Lm  interim  final  rule. 

No 

post-lethality 

exposed.'' 

(See  Note) 

Yes 


Establishment  is 
required  to  meet  Lm 
interim  final  rule. 


No 


Has  the  establishment  selected  one 
of  the  three  alternatives  per 
430.4(b)  of  the  regulations? 


Yes 


Regulatory 
noncompliance  exists. 

Inspection  program 
personnel  should  notify 
the  District  office  for 


Refer  to  subsequent 
flow  charts  for 
Alternatives  1,  2,  3 


Note:  FSIS  Sampling  Verification  still  applies  to  RTE  products 
that  do  not  fall  under  the  new  regulation. 


14 


Attachment  2 
FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 


15 


Attachment  3 


No 


Does  the  establishment  use  a post-lethality 
treatment  for  product  OR  an  antimicrobial  agent 
or  process  that  suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of 
Lml 


Yes 


Regulatory  noncompliance 
exists.  Document  NR  per 
instructions  in  FSIS  Directive 
10,240.4. 


If  the  answer  to  any  of 
the  questions  is  No 


Regulatory 

compliance 

i 

Yes 

No 


Has  the  estabhshment 
implemented  and  executed 
their  plans?  (HACCP, 
Sanitation  SOP  or 
prerequisite  program) 


If  the  establishment  has  chosen  the 
post-lethality  treatment,  is  it  included 
in  their  HACCP  plan  and  have  they 
validated  the  effectiveness  of  that 
treatment  per  417.4? 

OR 

If  the  establishment  has  chosen  the 
antimicrobial  agent  or  process,  is  it 
included  in  either  the  HACCP  plan  or 
Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite 
plan  and  have  they  documented  its 
effectiveness  in  suppressing  or 
limiting  the  growth  of  Lm? 

AND 

Do  they  have  a sanitation  program 
that  addresses  testing  of  food  contact 
surfaces  in  the  post  lethality 
processing  environment? 

Do  they  have  test  and  hold 
procedures? 

Do  they  state  the  frequency  of  testing 
and  identify  size  and  location  of 
sample  sites? 

Do  they  explain  why  the  testing 
frequency  is  sufficient  to  ensure 
effective  control  of  Lm  or  indicator 
organisms  is  maintained? 


Yes 


16 


If  the  answer  to  any  of 

the  questions  is  No 

◄ 


Regulatory 

compliance 


Yes 


Yes 

< 


No 


Is  the  establishment  following  their 
sanitation  program  as  written? 


Y 

Regulatory 
noncompliance  exists. 
Document  NR  per 
instructions  in  FSIS 
Directive  10.240.4 


A 


Does  the  sanitation  program: 

• Address  testing  of  food 
contact  surfaces  in  the  post 
lethality  processing 
environment? 

• Include  test  and  hold 
procedures? 

• State  the  frequency  of 
testing? 

• Identify  size  and  location  of 
sample  sites? 

• Explain  why  the  testing 
frequency  is  sufficient  to 
ensure  effective  control  of 
Lm  or  indicator  organisms  is 
maintained? 

ALSO 

If  the  establishment  produces  deli 
or  hot  dog  product 

Has  the  establishment  verified 
corrective  action  after  a positive 
test  for  Lm  or  an  indicator  organism 
on  a food  contact  surface  and  have 
they  implemented  follow-up 
testing? 

If  follow-up  testing  resulted  in  a 
second  positive  test,  did  the 
establishment  hold  lots  of  product 
that  may  have  become 
contaminated  by  contacting  the 
food  contact  surface? 

Did  the  establishment  sample  and 
test  product  before  it  entered  into 
commerce  or  did  they  rework  the 
product? 


17 


FSIS  Directive  10,240.4 
Attachment  5 


RTE  Regulations 
9 CFR  430.1,  Definitions. 

Antimicrobial  agent.  A substance  in  or  added  to  an  RTE  product  that  has  the 
effect  of  reducing  or  eliminating  a microorganism,  including  a pathogen  such  as 
L monocytogenes,  or  that  has  the  effect  of  suppressing  or  limiting  growth  of  L. 
monocytogenes  in  the  product  throughout  the  shelf  life  of  the  product.  Examples 
of  antimicrobial  agents  added  to  RTE  products  are  potassium  lactate  and  sodium 
diacetate. 

Antimicrobial  process.  An  operation,  such  as  freezing,  applied  to  an  RTE 
product  that  has  the  effect  of  suppressing  or  limiting  the  growth  of  a 
microorganism,  such  as  L monocytogenes,  in  the  product  throughout  the  shelf 
life  of  the  product. 

Deli  product.  A ready-to-eat  meat  or  poultry  product  that  typically  is  sliced, 
either  in  an  official  establishment  or  after  distribution  from  an  official 
establishment,  and  typically  is  assembled  in  a sandwich  for  consumption. 

Hotdoq  product.  A ready-to-eat  meat  or  poultry  frank,  frankfurter,  or  wiener, 
such  as  a product  defined  in  9 CFR  319.180  and  319.181. 

Lethality  treatment.  A process,  including  the  application  of  an  antimicrobial 
agent,  that  eliminates  or  reduces  the  number  of  pathogenic  microorganisms  on 
or  in  a product  to  make  the  product  safe  for  human  consumption.  Examples  of 
lethality  treatments  are  cooking  or  the  application  of  an  antimicrobial  agent  or 
process  that  eliminates  or  reduces  pathogenic  microorganisms. 

Post-lethality  exposed  product.  Ready-to-eat  product  that  comes  into  direct 
contact  with  a food  contact  surface  after  the  lethality  treatment  in  a post-lethality 
processing  environment. 

Post-lethality  processing  environment.  The  area  of  an  establishment  into  which 
product  is  routed  after  having  been  subjected  to  an  initial  lethality  treatment.  The 
product  may  be  exposed  to  the  environment  in  this  area  as  a result  of  slicing, 
peeling,  re-bagging,  cooling  semi-permeable  encased  product  with  a brine 
solution,  or  other  procedures. 

Post-lethality  treatment.  A lethality  treatment  that  is  applied  or  is  effective  after 
post-lethality  exposure.  It  is  applied  to  the  final  product  or  sealed  package  of 
product  in  order  to  reduce  or  eliminate  the  level  of  pathogens  resulting  from 
contamination  from  post-lethality  exposure. 


18 


Prerequisite  program.  A procedure  or  set  of  procedures  that  is  designed  to 
provide  basic  environmental  or  operating  conditions  necessary  for  the  production 
of  safe,  wholesome  food.  It  is  called  “prerequisite"  because  it  is  considered  by 
scientific  experts  to  be  prerequisite  to  a HACCP  plan. 

Ready-to-eat  (RTE)  product.  A meat  or  poultry  product  that  is  in  a form  that  is 
edible  without  additional  preparation  to  achieve  food  safety  and  may  receive 
additional  preparation  for  palatability  or  aesthetic,  epicurean,  gastronomic,  or 
culinary  purposes.  RTE  product  is  not  required  to  bear  a safe-handling  instruction 
(as  required  for  non-RTE  products  by  9 CFR  317.2(1)  and  381.125(b))  or  other 
labeling  that  directs  that  the  product  must  be  cooked  or  otherwise  treated  for 
safety,  and  can  include  frozen  meat  and  poultry  products. 

9 CFR  430.4,  Control  of  Listeria  monocytogenes  in  post-lethality  exposed 
ready-to-eat  products. 

(a)  Listeria  monocytogenes  can  contaminate  RTE  products  that  are  exposed 
to  the  environment  after  they  have  undergone  a lethality  treatment.  L. 
monocytogenes  is  a hazard  that  an  establishment  producing  post-lethality 
exposed  RTE  products  must  control  through  its  HACCP  plan  or  prevent  in  the 
processing  environment  through  a Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite  program. 
RTE  product  is  adulterated  if  it  contains  L.  monocytogenes  or  if  it  comes  into 
direct  contact  with  a food  contact  surface  which  is  contaminated  with  L. 
monocytogenes. 

(b)  In  order  to  maintain  the  sanitary  conditions  necessary  to  meet  this 
requirement,  an  establishment  producing  post-lethality  exposed  RTE 
product  must  comply  with  the  requirements  Included  in  one  of  the  three 
following  alternatives: 

(1 ) Alternative  1 . Use  of  a post-lethality  treatment  (which  may  be 
an  antimicrobial  agent)  that  reduces  or  eliminates  microorganisms  on 
the  product  and  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that  suppresses  or 
limits  the  growth  of  L.  monocytogenes.  If  an  establishment  chooses  this 
alternative: 

(i)  The  post-lethality  treatment  must  be  Included  in  the  establishment's 
HACCP  plan.  The  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  used  to  suppress  or  limit  the 
growth  of  the  pathogen  must  be  Included  In  either  the  establishment's  HACCP 
plan  or  its  Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite  program. 

(ii)  The  establishment  must  validate  the  effectiveness  of  the  post-lethality 
treatment  incorporated  In  Its  HACCP  plan  in  accordance  with  Sec.  417.4.  The 
establishment  must  document,  either  In  its  HACCP  plan  or  in  its  Sanitation  SOP 
or  other  prerequisite  program,  that  the  antimicrobial  agent  or  process,  as  used,  is 
effective  in  suppressing  or  limiting  growth  of  L.  monocytogenes. 


19 


(2)  Alternative  2.  Use  of  either  a post-lethality  treatment  (which  may  be  an 
antimicrobial  agent)  that  reduces  or  eliminates  microorganisms  on  the  product  or 
an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that  suppresses  or  limits  growth  of  L 
monocytogenes.  If  an  establishment  chooses  this  alternative: 

(i)  The  post-lethality  treatment  must  be  included  In  the  establishment's 
HACCP  plan.  The  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  used  to  suppress  or  limit  growth 
of  the  pathogen  must  be  included  in  either  the  establishment's  HACCP  plan  or  Its 
Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite  program. 

(ii)  The  establishment  must  validate  the  effectiveness  of  a post-lethality 
treatment  incorporated  in  its  HACCP  plan  in  accordance  with  Sec.  417.4.  The 
establishment  must  document  in  Its  HACCP  plan  or  In  its  Sanitation  SOP  or  other 
prerequisite  program  that  the  antimicrobial  agent  or  process,  as  used,  is  effective 
in  suppressing  or  limiting  growth  of  L.  monocytogenes. 

(iii)  If  an  establishment  chooses  this  alternative  and  chooses  to  use  only 
an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that  suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of  L. 
monocytogenes,  its  sanitation  program  must: 

(A)  Provide  fortesting  of  food  contact  surfaces  in  the  post-lethality 
processing  environment  to  ensure  that  the  surfaces  are  sanitary  and  free  of  L. 
monocytogenes  or  of  an  indicator  organism; 

(B)  Identify  the  conditions  under  which  the  establishment  will 
implement  hold-and-test  procedures  following  a positive  test  of  a food-contact 
surface  for  L.  monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism; 

(C)  State  the  frequency  with  which  testing  will  be  done; 

(D)  Identify  the  size  and  location  of  the  sites  that  will  be  sampled;  and 

(E)  Include  an  explanation  of  why  the  testing  frequency  is  sufficient  to 
ensure  that  effective  control  of  L.  monocytogenes  or  of  indicator  organisms  is 
maintained. 

(iv)  An  establishment  that  chooses  this  alternative  and  uses  a post- 
lethality treatment  of  product  will  likely  be  subject  to  more  frequent  verification 
testing  by  FSIS  than  if  It  had  chosen  Alternative  1.  An  establishment  that 
chooses  this  alternative  and  uses  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that 
suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of  L.  monocytogenes  will  likely  be  subject  to 
more  frequent  FSIS  verification  testing  than  if  It  uses  a post-lethality  treatment. 


20 


(3)  Alternative  3.  Use  of  sanitation  measures  only. 

(i)  If  an  establishment  chooses  this  alternative,  its  sanitation 
program  must: 

(A)  Provide  for  testing  of  food  contact  surfaces  in  the  post-lethality 
processing  environment  to  ensure  that  the  surfaces  are  sanitary  and  free  of  L 
monocytogenes  or  of  an  indicator  organism; 

(B)  Identify  the  conditions  under  which  the  establishment  will  implement 
hold-and-test  procedures  following  a positive  test  of  a food-contact  surface  for  L 
monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism; 

(C)  State  the  frequency  with  which  testing  will  be  done; 

(D)  Identify  the  size  and  location  of  the  sites  that  will  be  sampled;  and 

(E)  Include  an  explanation  of  why  the  testing  frequency  is  sufficient  to 
ensure  that  effective  control  of  L monocytogenes  or  of  indicator  organisms  is 
maintained. 

(ii)  An  establishment  producing  a deli  product  or  a hotdog  product,  in 
addition  to  meeting  the  requirements  of  paragraph  (b)(3)(i)  of  this  section,  must 
meet  the  following  requirements: 

(A)  The  establishment  must  verify  that  the  corrective  actions  that 
it  takes  with  respect  to  sanitation  after  an  Initial  positive  test  for 

L monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism  on  a food  contact  surface  in  the  post- 
lethality processing  environment  are  effective  by  conducting  follow-up  testing 
that  includes  a targeted  test  of  the  specific  site  on  the  food  contact  surface  area 
that  is  the  most  likely  source  of  contamination  by  the  organism  and  such 
additional  tests  in  the  surrounding  food  contact  surface  area  as  are  necessary  to 
ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  corrective  actions. 

(B)  During  this  follow-up  testing,  if  the  establishment  obtains  a second 
positive  test  for  L monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism,  the  establishment 
must  hold  lots  of  product  that  may  have  become  contaminated  by  contact  with 
the  food  contact  surface  until  the  establishment  corrects  the  problem  indicated  by 
the  test  result. 

(C)  Further,  in  order  to  be  able  to  release  into  commerce  the  lots  of 
product  that  may  have  become  contaminated  with  L monocytogenes,  the 
establishment  must  sample  and  test  the  lots  for  L monocytogenes  or  an  indicator 
organism  using  a sampling  method  and  frequency  that  will  provide  a level  of 
statistical  confidence  that  ensures  that  each  lot  is  not  adulterated  with  L 
monocytogenes.  The  establishment  must  document  the  results  of  this  testing. 


21 


Alternatively,  the  establishment  may  rework  the  held  product  using  a process  that 
is  destructive  of  L.  monocytogenes  or  the  indicator  organism. 

(iii)  An  establishment  that  chooses  Alternative  3 is  likely  to  be  subject  to 
more  frequent  verification  testing  by  FSIS  than  an  establishment  that  has  chosen 
Alternative  1 or  2.  An  establishment  that  chooses  Alternative  3 and  that  produces 
deli  meat  or  hotdog  products  is  likely  to  be  subject  to  more  frequent  verification 
testing  than  one  that  does  not  produce  such  products. 

(c)  For  all  three  alternatives  in  paragraph  (b): 

(1)  Establishments  may  use  verification  testing  that  includes  tests  for  L 
monocytogenes  or  an  indicator  organism,  such  as  Listeria  species,  to  verify  the 
effectiveness  of  their  sanitation  procedures  in  the  post-lethality  processing 
environment. 

(2)  Sanitation  measures  for  controlling  L.  monocytogenes  and  procedures 
for  antimicrobial  agents  or  processes  that  suppress  or  limit  the  growth  of  the 
pathogen  may  be  incorporated  either  in  the  establishment's  HACCP  plan  or  in  its 
Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite  program.  When  these  control  procedures 
are  incorporated  into  the  Sanitation  SOP  or  prerequisite  program,  and  not  as  a 
COP  in  the  HACCP  plan,  the  establishment  must  have  documentation  that 
supports  the  decision  in  its  hazard  analysis  that  L.  monocytogenes  is  not  a 
hazard  that  is  reasonably  likely  to  occur. 

(3)  The  establishment  must  maintain  sanitation  in  the  post-lethality 
processing  environment  in  accordance  with  part  416. 

(4)  If  L.  monocytogenes  control  measures  are  included  in  the  HACCP  plan, 
the  establishment  must  validate  and  verify  the  effectiveness  of  measures  for 
controlling  L.  monocytogenes  included  in  its  HACCP  plan  in  accordance  with 
Sec.  417.4. 

(5)  If  L.  monocytogenes  control  measures  are  included  in  the 
Sanitation  SOP,  the  effectiveness  of  the  measures  must  be  evaluated  in 
accordance  with  Sec.  416.14. 

(6)  If  the  measures  for  addressing  L.  monocytogenes  are  addressed 

in  a prerequisite  program  other  than  the  Sanitation  SOP,  the  establishment  must 
include  the  program  and  the  results  produced  by  the  program  in  the 
documentation  that  the  establishment  is  required  to  maintain  under  9 CFR  417.5. 

(7)  The  establishment  must  make  the  verification  results  that  demonstrate 
the  effectiveness  of  the  measures  it  employs,  whether  under  its  HACCP  plan  or 
its  Sanitation  SOP  or  other  prerequisite  program,  available  upon  request  to  FSIS 
inspection  personnel. 


22 


(d)  An  establishment  that  produces  post-lethality  exposed  RTE  product  shall 
provide  FSIS,  at  least  annually,  or  more  often,  as  determined  by  the 
Administrator,  with  estimates  of  annual  production  volume  and  related 
information  for  the  types  of  meat  and  poultry  products  processed  under  each  of 
the  alternatives  in  paragraph  (b)  of  this  section. 

(e)  An  establishment  that  controls  L monocytogenes  by  using  a post-lethality 
treatment  or  an  antimicrobial  agent  or  process  that  eliminates  or  reduces,  or 
suppresses  or  limits  the  growth  of  the  organism  may  declare  this  fact  on  the 
product  label  provided  that  the  establishment  has  validated  the  claim. 


23 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 
Printing  Management  Section 
5601  Sunnyside  Avenue,  Mail  Drop  5241 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-5241 


FIRST-CLASS  MAIL 

POSTAGE  & FEES  PAID 

USDA-FSIS 
Permit  No.  G-42 


(( 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


1 

FSIS  1 

DIRECTIV 

E 

11,150.1 

10/22/92 

BLUEPRINT  REVIEW  POLICY  — 
QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  transmits  a Questions  and  Answers  Guide  regarding 
blueprint  and  specifications  submittal  and  approvals.  There  are 
six  sections  of  questions  and  answers.  The  first  regards 
original  blueprint  and  specification  submissions  and  the  second, 
submissions  for  changes  to  previously  approved  blueprints  and 
specifications.  The  third  and  fourth  sections  deal  with  the 
appeal  and  re-submission  process  and  review  difficulties, 
respectively.  Section  five  addresses  the  monitoring  of 
facilities  and,  lastly,  section  six  provides  some  general 
questions  and  answers. 


II. 

[RESERVED] 

III. 

[RESERVED] 

IV. 

REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  304.2,  308.2,  308.3  and  381.19, 
381.45. 

FSIS  Directives,  11,010.1,  11,100.1,  11,100.2,  and  11,140.1. 

V.  POLICY 

The  MPI  Regulations  require  that  two  sets  of  complete  drawings 
(blueprints)  and  four  sets  of  specifications  be  submitted  to 
the  Facilities,  Equipment,  and  Sanitation  Division  (FESD) , 
Science  and  Technology,  prior  to  a grant  of  inspection. 
Approval  is  based  on  a review  and  evaluation  of  facility 
blueprint  drawings.  Additionally,  any  changes  to  official 
establishments  must  be  approved  by  FESD,  however,  only  the 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspec- 
tors, Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB, 
PRD,  AID 


OPI:  S&T/FESD 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


MAILED  AT 
BALTIMORE,  MD 
DROP  SHIPMENT 
AUTHORIZATION  2R 
PRESORTED  RRGT-CLASS 


37/520MPSLD1 594  R1  103-0001 

US  DEPT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  4 NUTRI  INFORMATION  CNTR 
NAT'L  AGRI  LIBRARY/  RM  304 
BELTSVILLE  MD  20705-2351 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D C. 


DIRECTIVE 


CHANGE  TRANSMIHAL  SHEET 


[ I REVISION 
[ 1 AMENDMENT 


(X  ] OTHER 


BLUEPRINT  REVIEW  POLICY — 
QUESTIONS  AND  ANSWERS 


11,150.1 


2/2/93 


I . PURPOSE 

The  title  of  FSIS  Directive  11,150.1,  dated  10/22/92, 
has  been  changed.  The  attached  page  contains  the  new 

title. 

II.  CHANGE 

The  title  of  FSIS  Directive  11,150.1,  dated  10/22/92, 
has  been  changed  to  read  "Blueprint  Review  Policy  — 
Questions  and  Answers."  Please  remove  the  first  page 
of  the  directive  and  replace  it  with  the  attached  page. 

III.  CANCELLATION 


This  transmittal  sheet  is  cancelled  when  the  attached 
page  has  been  incorporated  into  FSIS  Directive 
11,150.1. 


Acting  Director 
Regulations  Development  Unit 
Policy  Office,  PEPS 


Attachment 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors,  Plant 
Management,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


OPI:  S&T,  FESD 


i 1 I 

.4u»«^v»«t  £ I 


f jI 

. * r , 


dmnJw:><HPA  »ia  i 

M«)tT03"»ev^>  0»+A  VT  J1A«  ooa^ 


■■ 


T31HE  JATTiHaiWrr  3 


« t / T 

fc  iV..  ■^■-  4-- 


-4^ 


? flr  '4 

i:::^ 


■4^ 


CfV^\S 


x.a^i,iifc  " 


— Youoq  isar.^ar.  rms^tiia  - 
aHA  ^SfOItESUQ 


^.i-' 


< 


« ^~rfgw-  — »** 


,^Q\SS\OI  be4»fe  -.051 

v<^n  o , ^ ^3i\f  ^ 


?L 


tovcfvoi  b»^*b  ,;-  ja.  11  •vtio.Tia  i-in 

■ ®e«i  (3Mit 


WOItAUa54!lpi  .1*  ' ™ 

I ’ a 'll  o *'  ’{i^  i.t 

’V'" 


berfoeiJSA  <MtJ  neiv  fcatlec^nea  ai  3»atl8 

WE3  o^nt  ba:*«o<r»o3l«  ] 


/- 


tfinu  rTT'HSKjolwv'.ii  ^ 

!i*J33  VDiiJl  J 


" y* 

V " ‘^^V‘  V •'*  ^ 

•4*  1^'^*-  \*-**  •’•. 


4 * 

j 


j;.,  -;xi  3 

,:«.  «.i  '^K-tv.'  - 

i 


-pn«,>t«5si 

. r,F,/.,s:r*jye^ 

V . ' - *“ ' ^ ^ ■ — 


• cr  ' - — . 

^isr*  ' nu;r.«i.<!l  IwbiTtiaiflWto 

C44'l  .xa^j,;l^^.  • .&5’l-  jpiis  A\T  ,jr*<-a5ij«»*- 

_ , 


) 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGftIGULTURE-, y 

FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE  ^ ' 

WASHINGTON^t)^]  - . ; ■ _ . 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


111,  240.1 
Rev . 1 


11-30-93 


CONVERTING  LARD  OR  TALLOW  TANK  CARS 
MARKED  INEDIBLE  TO  EDIBLE  PRODUCT  USE 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  guidelines  on  converting  railroad  tank 
cars  from  inedible  rendered  product  use  to  edible  rendered 
product  use . 

II.  CANCELLATION 

FSIS  Directive  11,240.1,  dated  10/18/93 


III.  [RESERVED] 


IV.  REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations  Sections  308.5  and  316.15 

FSIS  Directive  8800.1,  PBIS  Implementation  Instructions, 
dated  11/1/91 

FSIS  Directive  8820.1,  Corrective  Action  System,  dated 
3/1/91 

V.  FORMS  AND  ABBREVIATIONS 

The  following  will  appear  as  abbreviated  in  this  directive: 
lie  Inspector  in  Charge 

MPI  Meat  and  Poultry  Inspection 

PBIS  Performance  Based  Inspection  System 

STCC  Standard  Transportation  Commodity  Code 

VI . POLICY 

FSIS  has  determined  that  railroad  tank  cars  may  be  converted  from 
inedible  rendered  product  use  to  edible  rendered  product  use 
provided  that  acceptable  sanitation  and  inspection  procedures  are 
followed . 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors , DPI:  lO/POS 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Mgt . , TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


VII. 


RESPONSIBILITIES 


A.  The  official  establishment  should: 

1.  Have  cleaning/reconditioning  and  inspection 
procedures  approved  by  and  on  file  with  the  IIC  which  include,  at 
a minimum: 


a.  Name  and  title  of  the  individual  responsible 
for  implementing  the  cleaning/reconditioning  procedure. 

b.  A description  of  the  cleaning  procedure, 
including  type  of  chemicals  to  be  used  and  water  temperature. 

c.  A description  of  the  procedures  to  be  used  by 
establishment  personnel  for  inspecting  tank  cars  following  the 
cleaning  operation,  including  inspecting  the  exterior,  interior, 
and  all  accessible  gaskets  and  seals  of  the  tank  car. 

d.  Documents  which  reflect  the  results  of 
inspections  performed  by  establishment  personnel  to  determine 
compliance  with  FSIS  requirements  for  converting  tank  cars  from 
inedible  to  edible  product  use,  tank  car  identification  number, 
any  comments,  and  signature  of  the  person  performing  the 
inspection . 


e.  A description  of  the  actions  that  will  be 
taken  by  the  responsible  official  if  cleaning  and  inspection 
deficiencies  occur. 

B.  Inspection  Personnel: 

1.  Inspection  personnel  should  not  enter  the  tank 
car  to  perform  PBIS  verification  tasks.  In  lieu  of  entering 
the  tank  car,  inspection  personnel  should  observe  the  parts 
of  the  tank  car  interior  which  can  be  adequately  illuminated 
by  using  a hand  held,  dry  cell  powered  light,  or  an  electric 
drop  cord,  furnished  by  the  establishment.  Electrical  drop 
cords  must  have  shatter  proof  bulbs,  and  be  properly 
insulated  and  grounded  to  eliminate  electrical  shock  ■ 

hazards.  Observation  of  the  tank  car  interior  can  be  accom- 
plished by  viewing  the  illuminated  areas  through  the  tanker 
hatch.  Converted  tank  cars  should  not  have  exposed  heating 
elements,  and  should  be  otherwise  suitable  for  edible  product 
use  . 


2.  Use  PBIS  Code  09B01al  for  records  evaluation  and 
PBIS  Code  09B01a2  for  inspection  verification. 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  11,240.1 


3 . Use  appropriate  unscheduled  task  code  as  indicated 
in  FSIS  Directive  8800.1.  If  a deficiency  is  observed,  apply  the 
Corrective  Action  System  as  described  in  FSIS  Directive  8820.1. 

Deputy  Administrator 
Inspection  Operations 


Page  3 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


11,540.1 


9-17-93 


USE  OF  CERTAIN  VEHICLES  AS  REFRIGERATION 
OR  DRY  STORAGE  FACILITIES 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides:  (1)  guidance  to  inspection  personnel  for 

approval  of  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  and  shipboard 
containers  which  are  used  as  refrigeration  or  dry  storage 
facilities,  (2)  for  the  immediate  use  of  such  vehicles  and 
containers  if  they  meet  the  guidelines  in  this  directive,  and 
(3)  information  to  assist  inspectors  in  review  of  the  blueprint 
specifications  for  these  vehicles. 


II.  [RESERVED] 


III.  [RESERVED] 


IV.  REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations  304.2,  308.7,  308.9,  308.10,  308.12,  381.19, 
381.47(f)  and  381.65(a) 

FSIS  Directive  5400.1,  Rev.  2,  dated  1/29/92 
FSIS  Directive  8820.1,  Rev.  1,  dated  3/1/92 
FSIS  Directive  8830.1,  dated  3/1/91 
FSIS  Directive  11,000.1,  dated  3/21/86 
FSIS  Directive  11,000.2,  dated  4/28/87 


V.  [RESERVED] 


VI . POLICY 

A.  FSIS  is  responsible  for  inspecting  meat  and  poultry 
establishment  premises,  facilities  and  equipment  to  ensure  that 
they  are  clean  and  sanitary  and  will  not  adulterate  meat  or 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors,  QPI:  S&T/FESD 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


poultry  products.  Section  8 of  the  Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act 
and  section  7 of  the  Poultry  Products  Inspection  Act  provide  that 
each  official  establishment  slaughtering  livestock  or  poultry,  or 
preparing  meat  or  meat  food  products,  or  processing  poultry 
products  for  commerce  or  otherwise  subject  to  inspection  under 
these  Acts,  shall  operate  in  accordance  with  sanitary  practices. 

B.  Section  308.7  of  the  meat  inspection  regulations  states 
that  product  storage  rooms,  compartments,  places,  equipment  and 
utensils  shall  be  kept  clean  and  in  sanitary  condition.  It 
further  provides  that  there  shall  be  no  handling  or  storing  of 
materials  which  create  an  objectionable  condition  in  rooms, 
compartments,  or  places  where  any  product  is  prepared,  stored  or 
handled.  Under  section  308.9  of  the  meat  inspection  regulations, 
product  shall  be  protected  from  contamination  from  any  source 
during  storage,  loading,  or  unloading  at  and  transportation  from 
official  establishments.  Finally,  section  381.65(a)  of  the 
poultry  products  inspection  regulations  states  that  operations 
and  procedures  involving  the  processing,  other  handling,  or 
storing  of  any  poultry  product  shall  be  performed  in  a sanitary 
matter,  resulting  in  products  which  are  not  adulterated. 

C.  The  MPI  Regulations  also  require  that  product  storage 
areas  be  kept  in  good  repair,  dry,  orderly,  sanitary  and 
otherwise  adequate  for  the  type  and  quantity  of  material  being 
handled  and  used  in  such  a way  that  meat  and  poultry  products, 
and/or  packaging  materials  do  not  become  contaminated  prior  to 
use . 


D.  Truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard  containers 
are  being  used  by  some  establishments  as  storage  facilities.  The 
MPI  Regulations  do  not  provide  any  specific  requirements 
governing  the  use  of  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or 
shipboard  containers  as  refrigeration  and/or  dry  storage 
facilities.  They  are  special  purpose  vehicles  or  containers 
designed  to  hold  product,  properly  packed,  during  transportation. 
Use  of  these  vehicles  to  store  product  at  the  establishment  is 
discouraged.  If  they  are  used  to  store  product  and  packaging 
material  at  the  official  establishment,  they  are  considered  part 
of  that  establishment  and  must  meet  all  applicable  facility  and 
sanitation  requirements  of  the  regulations. 

E.  The  use  of  a truck  trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or  shipboard 
container  for  storage  of  product  at  an  establishment  constitutes 
a modification  to  the  facility  which  requires  prior  approval  from 
the  Facilities,  Equipment  and  Sanitation  Division  (FESD) , Science 
and  Technology.  In  the  past,  blueprints  and  specifications 
submitted  by  the  establishment  for  the  use  of  these  vehicles  and 
containers  have  been  incomplete,  causing  delays  in  their  approval 
by  FESD.  The  following  information  gives  guidance  in  preparing 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  11,540.1 


specifications  and  allows  inspectors  to  immediately  approve  the 
use  of  these  vehicles  and  containers  if  they  meet  all  of  the 
guidelines  in  this  directive. 


VII.  Management  Responsibilities 

To  permit  inspectors  to  provide  on-site  approval  of  facility 
modifications  consisting  of  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or 
shipboard  containers  for  holding  meat  product,  poultry  products 
or  packaging  materials,  establishment  management  must  ensure 
that: 


A.  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard 
containers  used  to  store  meat  and  poultry  products,  other  food 
products  or  packaging  materials  meet  all  applicable  facility  and 
sanitation  requirements  of  the  regulations, 

B.  a new  FSIS  Form  5200-5  is  submitted  to  the 
inspector;  the  new  Form  5200-5  must  include  either  a detailed 
description  of  the  modifications  for  the  vehicle  or  container 
and/or  a statement  in  the  specifications  that  the  vehicle  or 
container  meets  all  of  the  guidelines  set  forth  in  Paragraphs  VII 
and  VIII  of  this  directive,  and 

C.  sanitary  conditions  and  handling  practices  are 
followed,  such  as: 

1.  storing  meat  or  poultry  products,  other  food 
products  or  packaging  materials  at  least  one  foot  off  the  floor 
and  away  from  walls  of  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or 
shipboard  containers  for  ease  of  cleaning  and  inspection  or 
moving  them  frequently  to  facilitate  cleaning  and  inspection,  and 

2.  covering  meat  and  poultry  products,  other  food 
products  or  packaging  materials  held  in  truck  trailers,  railroad 
boxcars  or  shipboard  containers. 


VIII.  Inspector  Responsibilities 

A.  Approval  Procedures  and  Criteria  for  Approval 

1.  The  inspector  shall  assure,  prior  to  approval  of 
the  use  of  such  vehicle  or  container,  that  the  establishment  has 
properly  completed  a FSIS  Form  5200-5,  Submission  and  Approval  of 
Plans  and  Specifications,  and  documented  in  the  specifications 
that  they  have  met  the  guidelines  in  Paragraphs  VII  and  VIIIA2. 

2.  When  approving  the  use  of  truck  trailers, 
railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard  containers  as  refrigeration  or  dry 
storage  facilities,  the  inspector  shall  ensure  that: 


Page  3 


a.  the  vehicle  or  container  is  on  a full 
dimension  concrete  pad,  skirted  or  sealed  to  the  concrete  pad 
with  skirting  having  an  access  door  for  inspection.  An  adequate 
clean-up  hose  connection  must  be  nearby, 

b.  there  is  adequate  space  around  all  sides  of 
the  vehicle  or  container  to  facilitate  easy  access  and  proper 
cleaning. 


c.  grooved  floors  are  thoroughly  cleaned,  then 
covered  or  filled  so  that  the  new  floor  is  flat,  without  grooves 
or  space  between  the  original  and  new  floor,  and  the  new  floor  is 
properly  sloped  for  drainage  with  the  drain  properly  connected  to 
the  drain  line. 


d.  walls  and  ceilings  are  in  good  repair  and 
covered  with  materials  that  are  durable,  rigid,  smooth  and 
impervious  to  moisture,  and  easily  cleaned,  without  overhead 
appurtenances,  such  as  exposed  structures  or  canvas  ducting, 

e.  the  body  of  the  vehicle  or  container  is 
sealed  to  the  building  if  it  is  positioned  next  to  the  building, 

f.  the  refrigeration  unit  is  properly  connected 
to  the  exterior  of  the  vehicle  or  container  and  is  sealed  and 
properly  maintained. 


g.  product  is  thoroughly  pre-cooled  before 
storage  in  the  vehicle  or  container, 

h.  the  vehicle  or  container  is  equipped  with 
shielded  overhead  lights  that  supply  at  least  20  foot  candles  of 
illumination  throughout  the  interior, 

i.  boxes  are  stacked  to  obtain  maximum  and 
uniform  cooling  with  the  type  of  air  delivery  and  refrigeration 
system  used,  and 


j .  passageways  are  maintained  between  rows  and 
are  spaced  at  least  1 foot  away  from  the  walls  to  allow 
inspection  and  cleaning. 

3 . The  inspector  shall  monitor  meat  and  poultry 
products  and  packaging  materials  stored  in  truck  trailers, 
railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard  containers.  During  the  inspection, 
the  inspector  shall  ensure  that: 

a.  meat  and  poultry  products,  or  packaging 
materials  held  in  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard 
containers  are  stored  the  same  as  if  they  were  in  permanent 
storage  facilities. 


Page  4 


FSIS  Directive  11,540.1 


b.  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or 
shipboard  containers  are  clean,  dry,  orderly,  sanitary,  and 
otherwise  adequate  for  the  type  and  quantity  of  material  being 
handled,  and 

c.  neither  stored  meat  and  poultry  products, 
other  food  products,  nor  packaging  materials  held  in  truck 
trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard  containers  come  in  direct 
or  indirect  contact  with  rain,  dust,  water,  vapor,  or  other  damp 
conditions,  or  pests,  such  as  insects,  birds,  and  rodents,  or 
airborne  contaminants. 

B.  When  Contamination  is  Suspected 

1.  In  slaughter  establishments,  if  the  inspector 
finds  carcasses  or  parts  or  packaging  materials  stored  in  truck 
trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard  containers  in  an 
unsanitary  manner  which  may  cause  contamination,  the  inspector 
shall  attach  a "U.S.  Rejected”  tag  to  the  truck  trailer,  railroad 
boxcar,  or  shipboard  container  at  entry  or  exit  points. 

2.  In  slaughter  establishments,  if  carcasses  or 
parts  or  packaging  materials  become  contaminated  as  a result  of 
storage  in  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or  shipboard 
containers,  the  inspector  shall: 

a.  tag  the  truck  trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or 
shipboard  container  with  a ”U.S.  Rejected”  tag  at  the  entry 
point. 


b.  tag  the  carcasses  or  parts  or  packaging 
materials  with  a "U.S.  Retained”  tag, 

c.  reinspect  the  carcasses  or  parts  or 
packaging  materials  after  the  establishment  indicates  they  have 
taken  appropriate  reconditioning  or  corrective  action, 

d.  remove  the  ”U.S.  Rejected”  tag  from  the 
truck  trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or  shipboard  container  if  the 
corrective  action  is  acceptable,  and 

e.  remove  the  "U.S.  Retained”  tag  from  the 
product  if  the  product  is  determined  to  be  wholesome. 

3.  In  processing  establishments,  if  the  inspector 
finds  meat  and  poultry  products,  other  food  products  or  packaging 
materials  stored  in  temporary  truck  trailers,  railroad  boxcars  or 
shipboard  containers  in  an  unsanitary  manner,  the  inspector  shall 
take  corrective  action  as  specified  in  FSIS  Directive  8820.1, 

Rev.  1 and  FSIS  Directive  8830.1. 


Page  5 


C.  When  Unapproved  Vehicles  are  Used  as  Storage 
Containers 

1.  If  the  inspector  finds  meat  and  poultry 
products,  other  food  products  or  packaging  materials  being  stored 
in  an  unapproved  truck  trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or  shipboard 
container  in  a slaughter  establishment,  the  inspector  shall: 

a.  tag  the  truck  trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or 
shipboard  container  with  a "U.S.  Rejected”  tag  at  the  entry  point 
to  prohibit  further  such  use  of  that  facility,  until  ascertaining 
that  all  applicable  inspection  requirements  for  that  facility 
have  been  met,  and 


b.  tag  the  product  held  inside  the  truck 
trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or  shipboard  container  with  a "U.S. 
Retained"  tag  until  the  establishment  has  taken  corrective 
action,  as  necessary,  prior  to  reinspection  and  appropriate 
disposition  of  the  product  by  the  inspector. 


2.  If  the  inspector  finds  an  unapproved  truck 
trailer,  railroad  boxcar  or  shipboard  container  being  used  to 
store  meat  and  poultry  products,  other  food  products  or  packaging 
materials  in  a processing  establishment,  the  inspector  shall  take 
corrective  action  as  specified  in  FSIS  Directive  8820.1,  Rev.  1 
and  FSIS  Directive  8830.1. 


Establishments  have  six  (6)  months  from  the  date  of  this 
directive  to  submit  amended  blueprints  to  FESD  reflecting  the 


Deputy  Administrator 
Inspection  Operations 


Page  6 


•SU.S.  Government  Printing  Office  : 1993  -341-288/81512 


m - V'  V: 

' ”‘k. 


' -1 


>it 

" ' i'^5r'  JL 


:'l;4l_.V.i|(l'i‘i 


,5»  , M.  ...  ' ,:«. 


k ’ ja  f rjf  '^-^TU  i lie?  i 0 ^ i t»  f • .‘ti  ’Mii.  ^ 

^^coS*:  ■* unslJii t vi^f 


afItoi*Ma'BS51y.''l&tNj--:«0ci?Ailii%fei..aS^ 


».  


:4^H  ■ . ■ J J^'  #1'  iftl 

■«u,_  jfci'^*:!^''':"u,.*',*^;.v^“*  a^tv'' 

•^^''^'  ,3'V  ^'^^' ■ ./ 

IL— _*,.’  . -1'  •■ 


sa 


£^;:,vv 


■:V 


saTKIliVTOI 


>..;*. :-,^.;:^r  ,j  ■ *V}  ■' ^ ; 

;.;,  fSC>lyi6Z  noiJM^I  ;l»if  CnHO'1 


V<6^'d02fO  .1 , ]Ra 


.13. 


t|i  w,iSS^r?2^.Q 

. ..  ^7H«U«VA»,d*>v5 

1,  «C.t  ,«M  v>ly,i^ 


MMeaAi^T*^^  ■ .V ; ''^,  J,:,' 

’^^Ps . f aW  ®H  ii4ys®.§C’^l'i  V,  .*>1  ■ £f 

^'^'faS?^i?00:-5,#  ' ;m^.  J^covi|A  knd  <, 

-fe  ■ F'^SC®''*^'  'j  ■'  •■^";  ' '4  ’’’*' 


ir.  yiJP**4«.c'^*'||j[;  ■'- 


t I,. 


^ 'f, 


t^^.Hln”.  '^li- 


nb«.g|.i.ltW»».,T'<&Cl.iJLW»»"  %!§t,fna\iT>i  tHaft  ■ 

ai^J£\»An  ar4  pi)tti,&^  or  ■■ 


agj',' 


ft. 


||f*li(i>«»JLip  IHlXll  II'  ■ <i|Srii^M»»l!*i!f]^r*»)1*' ^ »-<<yiB|i»ifll  l>ii>l( 

t/A  Tj^yi,'' ”“■'' 


^ j .... 


'(4,. 


;5V,A: 

‘■'^l^lii!^f*&.  • »■■■ 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

Food  Safety  and  Inspection  Service 

Washington,  D.C. 

20250 

OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOOD  SAFETY  AND  INSPECTION  SERVICE 
WASHINGTON,  D.C. 


FSIS  DIRECTIVE 


11,550 . 1 


9/21/93 


COMMON  AREAS  IN  FEDERALLY  INSPECTED  ESTABLISHMENTS 


I . PURPOSE 

This  directive  provides  guidelines  to  inspectors  to  ensure  that 
contact  with  unsanitary  common  areas  does  not  cause  product  to 
become  adulterated.  Common  areas  are  areas  in  meat  and  poultry 
establishments  which  are  used  in  common  by  employees  of  two  or 
more  federally  inspected  establishments. 


II. 

[RESERVED] 

III. 

[RESERVED] 

IV. 

REFERENCES 

MPI  Regulations,  Sections  305.1,  308.3(a),  and  318.2(d) 

FSIS  Directive  5400.1,  Rev.  2,  dated  1/29/92 
FSIS  Directive  8820.1,  Rev.  1,  dated  3/1/91 
FSIS  Directive  8830.1,  dated  3/1/91 
FSIS  Directive  11,150.1,  dated  10/22/92 

V.  FORM 

The  following  form  will  be  referenced  in  this  directive: 

FSIS  Form  5200-5,  Submission  and  Approval  of  Plans  and 
Specifications 

VI . POLICY/BACKGROUND 

A.  FSIS  is  responsible  for  inspecting  meat  and  poultry 
establishment  premises,  facilities  and  equipment  to  ensure  that 
they  are  clean  and  sanitary  and  will  not  adulterate  meat  or 


DISTRIBUTION:  Inspection  Offices,  T/A  Inspectors, QPI:  S&T/FESD 
Plant  Mgt.,  T/A  Plant  Mgt.,  TRA,  ABB,  PRD,  AID 


poultry  products.  Section  8 of  the  Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act 
and  section  7 of  the  Poultry  Products  Inspection  Act  provide  that 
each  official  establishment  slaughtering  livestock  or  poultry,  or 
preparing  meat  or  meat  food  products,  or  processing  poultry 
products  for  commerce  or  otherwise  subject  to  inspection  under 
these  Acts,  shall  operate  in  accordance  with  sanitary  practices. 

B.  FSIS  is  concerned  about  meat  and  poultry  products  that 
may  become  contaminated  from  foreign  material  and/or  pathogenic 
bacteria.  Section  305.1  of  the  MPI  Regulations  permits  persons 
operating  as  separate  entities  in  the  same  building  to  operate 
under  his  or  her  own  grant  of  inspection.  Under  such 
circumstances,  all  separate  entities  in  the  same  structure 
operating  under  a grant  of  inspection  are  required  to  comply  with 
the  Federal  Meat  Inspection  Act  and  regulations  in  both  their  own 
establishments  and  in  common  areas,  including  hallways,  stairways 
and  elevators.  FSIS  currently  permits  limited  common  areas  in 
federally  inspected  meat  and  poultry  establishments. 

C.  Because  the  use  of  common  areas  by  different 
establishment  employees  provides  greater  potential  for  unsanitary 
conditions  due  to  "shared”  responsibility  for  cleanliness,  such 
areas  are  a source  of  potential  contamination  of  meat  and  poultry 
products  and  use  of  common  areas  should  be  carefully  controlled. 
FSIS  limits  the  use  of  common  areas  to  areas  used  primarily  for 
the  movement  of  packaged  product  and  people,  areas  used  primarily 
to  house  utilities,  and  the  USDA  office.  These  areas  should  be 
arranged  so  that  employees  of  one  establishment  do  not  need  to 
pass  through  the  non-common  facilities  of  another  establishment, 
such  as  a processing  room,  to  reach  a common  area  or  part  of 
their  own  facilities. 

D.  The  MPI  Regulations  require  that  each  applicant  for 
inspection  submit  detailed  drawings  and  specifications  of  the 
facility  to  the  FSIS  Administrator  before  inspection  can  be 
granted.  Drawings  and  specifications  must  also  be  submitted  for 
existing  facilities  in  which  remodeling,  modification  or 
expansion  is  planned.  FSIS's  Facilities,  Equipment  and 
Sanitation  Division  (FESD)  reviews  and  evaluates  the  drawings  and 
specifications  of  proposed  new  facilities  or  the  modification  or 
replacement  of  existing  facilities.  FESD  will  not  approve  an 
arrangement  of  common  areas  which  requires  the  employees  of  one 
establishment  to  pass  through  the  non-common  facilities  of 
another  establishment  to  reach  a common  area  or  part  of  their  own 
facilities . 

VII.  Inspection  Procedures 

A.  The  inspector  shall  inform  all  entities  in  the  same 
structure  operating  under  separate  grants  of  inspection  that  each 
entity  is  responsible  for  keeping  common  areas  in  the  structure 
clean  and  sanitary. 


Page  2 


FSIS  Directive  11,550.1 


B . The  inspector  should  ensure  that  common  areas  are 
limited  to: 

1 . areas  primarily  used  for  movement  of  packaged 
product  and  people,  such  as  hallways,  stairways,  elevators, 
shipping  and  receiving  docks  or  areas,  and  welfare  facilities, 

2.  areas  used  primarily  to  house  utilities,  such  as 
boiler  rooms,  compressor  rooms,  refrigerator  rooms,  and 
electrical  control  rooms,  and 

3.  the  USDA  office. 

C.  If  the  inspector  finds  that  the  arrangement  of  the 
facilities  requires  employees  of  one  establishment  to  pass 
through  another  establishment's  non-common  area,  such  as  a 
processing  room,  to  reach  a common  area  or  part  of  their  own 
facilities,  the  inspector  shall: 

1.  inform  management  of  all  facilities  sharing  the 
common  areas  of  the  situation,  and 

2.  inform  management  of  all  facilities  that  share  the 
common  areas  that  each  must  simultaneously  submit  to  FESD  a 
completed  FSIS  Form  5200-5  and  an  updated  set  of  drawings  and 
specifications  showing  the  arrangement  of  the  common  areas. 

VIII.  Inspector  Responsibilities 

A.  In  slaughter  establishments,  the  inspector  shall  tag  a 
common  area  with  a "U.S.  Rejected"  tag  if  the  inspector  finds  a 
common  area  which  is  unsanitary.  The  inspector  shall  remove  the 
"U.S.  Rejected"  tag  after  the  common  area  is  cleaned. 

B.  In  slaughter  establishments,  if  product  contamination 
resulting  from  exposure  to  common  areas  is  suspected  or  found, 
the  inspector  shall: 

1.  tag  the  common  area  with  a "U.S.  Rejected"  tag, 

2.  tag  and  retain  the  carcasses  or  parts, 

3 . reinspect  the  carcasses  or  parts  after  the 
establishment  has  taken  appropriate  action  acceptable  to  the 
inspector,  and 


Page  3 


4.  remove  the  "U.S.  Rejected"  tag  from  the  common  area 
after  the  establishment  has  taken  appropriate  action  acceptable 
to  the  inspector. 


C.  In  processing  establishments,  if  product  contamination 
resulting  from  exposure  to  common  areas  is  suspected  or  found, 
and/or  unsanitary  conditions  are  found,  the  inspector  shall  take 
corrective  action  as  specified  in  FSIS  Directive  8820.1,  Rev.  1, 
and  FSIS  Directive  8830.1. 


Deputy  Administrator 
Inspection  Operations 


Page  4 


O.S.  Government  Printing  Office  : 1993  - 341-280/81509 


