Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


Letter  No.  2728  August  25,  1995 

C-R-P  SIGN-UP  DATES  -  Stricter,  but  more  environmentally  friendly,  is  how  USDA  officials 
describe  the  rules  for  this  year's  Conservation  Reserve  Program.  Sign-up  for  the  13th  annual 
program  will  run  from  September  11-22  in  county  Farm  Service  Agency  offices,  but  this  time 
around  the  rules  have  changed.  Agriculture  Secretary  Dan  Glickman  says  acreage  enrolled  will 
have  to  ^eet  higher  environmental  and  conservation  criteria  than  ever  before.  USDA  can  accept 
up  to  651,000  acres  into  the  program,  the  same  amount  withdrawn  under  the  one-time  early  out 
period  in  May.  One  of  the  major  enrollment  changes  will  be  to  allow  producers  to  submit 
Environmental  Priority  bids  for  more  environmentally  sensitive  practices.  Those  bids  would  then 
receive  the  highest  possible  environmental  benefits  ranking.  Farm  Service  Agency  (FSA)  Acting 
Administrator  Grant  Buntrock  says  bid  caps  would  be  announced  ahead  of  time  to  let  farmers 
know  what  the  highest  possible  bid  limit  would  be  on  the  acreage.  Since  Buntrock  anticipates 
receiving  more  requests  than  USDA  can  fill,  he  said  this  would  give  farmers  a  chance  to  underbid 
that  cap  if  they  wanted  to.  Contact:  Bruce  Merkle  (202)  720-8206. 

LIVESTOCK,  DAIRY  AND  POULTRY  OUTLOOK  -  Red  meat  and  poultry  exports  continue  on 
their  record  setting  pace,  helping  to  offset  the  U.S.  trade  deficit.  In  their  latest  Livestock,  Dairy 
and  Poultry  Situation  and  Outlook,  USDA  economists  say  exports  through  June  30  had  already 
reached  a  value  more  than  $2.9  billion,  compared  to  $5.3  billion  for  all  of  1994.  Economists  are 
predicting  stronger  beef  exports  and  declining  imports.  Exports  continue  to  be  strong  in  the 
Pacific  Rim,  but  shipments  to  other  countries  are  up  more  than  50  percent  from  last  year.  First 
half  1995  exports  of  pork  jumped  74  percent  above  last  year,  supported  by  higher  shipments  to 
the  Pacific  Rim,  South  America  and  countries  of  the  Former  Soviet  Union.  Dairy  prices  could 
increase  as  economists  are  looking  at  a  slow  but  sure  economic  expansion  and  modest  gains  in 
retail  dairy  prices.  Projected  use  of  most  dairy  products  is  expected  to  rise  during  the  rest  of 
1995.  The  poultry  sector  is  seeing  exports  of  broilers  grow  while  turkey  exports  remain  stagnant. 
Broiler  exports  rose  36  percent  above  the  same  time  last  year  and  economists  are  expecting  a 
net  growth  of  27  percent  for  the  year.  Smaller  turkey  sales  to  Mexico  could  be  the  reason  turkey 
exports  for  the  first  half  of  1995  were  down  slightly  from  last  year.  Exports  of  turkey  had  been 
growing  rapidly  in  past  years,  and  USDA  economists  are  predicting  continued  growth  in  U.S. 
production  and  stable  prices  in  1996  which  should  boost  exports  to  several  Asian  markets. 
Contact:  Ron  Gustafson  (202)  219-1286. 

SMALLER  WHEAT  CROP,  HIGHER  PRICES  -  Lower  U.S.  wheat  production  pushed  domestic 
wheat  prices  to  $4.24  per  bushel  in  July,  which  could  be  the  highest  July  farm  price  on  record. 
Export  prices  are  following  the  same  trend,  where  prices  reached  $186  per  ton  in  July,  the  highest 
since  December  of  1980.  U.S.  wheat  output  for  1995  is  forecast  at  2.2  billion  bushels,  as 
reported  in  USDA's  latest  Agricultural  Outlook,  down  4  percent  from  1994  and  the  third 
consecutive  year  of  decline  in  area  planted,  area  harvested  and  yields.  The  biggest  reduction 
is  predicted  for  winter  wheat.  Contact:  Nathan  Childs  (202)  501-8540. 


2 


U.S.  TURNING  "GREEN"  -  The  U.S.  "green"  industry  is  flourishing!  The  industry,  which 
combines  indoor  flowers  and  potted  plants  with  outdoor  landscaping  products,  is  expected  to  rise 
by  5  percent  over  last  year.  USDA  officials  are  predicting  grower  sales  of  $10.5  billion  this  year 
and  they're  expecting  the  business  to  grow  4-6  percent  annually.  Greenhouse  and  nursery  crops 
makes  up  11  percent  of  cash  receipts  for  all  U.S.  farm  crops,  making  it  the  sixth  largest 
commodity  group  in  agriculture.  While  the  landscaping  sector  has  been  adversely  affected  by 
economic  conditions,  demand  for  bedding  plants  has  remained  robust.  Contact:  Lois  Caplan 
(202)  501-8542. 

MORE  INPUT  SOUGHT  ON  FOOD  SAFETY  PROPOSAL  -  The  Department  of  Agriculture  will 
hold  a  series  of  meetings  in  September  to  discuses  its  proposal  to  improve  the  safety  of  meat  and 
poultry.  In  February  of  this  year,  USDA  published  the  proposed  rule  labeled  "Pathogen 
Reduction:  Hazard  Analysis  and  Critical  Controi  Point  Systems”  and  asked  for  comments. 
Agriculture  Secretary  Dan  Glickman  says  the  upcoming  meetings  will  be  another  opportunity  to 
talk  about  major  concerns  brought  up  during  that  comment  period.  USDA's  Acting  Under 
Secretary  for  Food  Safety,  Michael  Taylor  says  "Public  dialogue  during  the  decision  making 
process  will  improve  the  final  rule."  USDA  has  also  reopened  the  comment  rule  on  the  HACCP 
proposal  until  30  days  after  the  last  public  meeting  in  September.  To  find  out  where  and  when 
the  meetings  will  be  held,  contact  Lisa  Parks  at  (202)  501  -7 1 38.  Contact:  Hedy  Ohringer  (202) 
720-9113. 

CHANGING  REGULATIONS  ON  ORGANISMS  -  The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  wants  to 
know  your  views  on  their  proposal  to  amend  regulations  on  genetically  engineered  plants. 
Specifically,  amendments  would  allow  most  modified  plants  to  be  introduced  under  the  notification 
process  as  long  as  they  meet  certain  criteria.  USDA  has  the  responsibility  of  assuring  no  plant 
pest  risk  is  present  when  it  releases  any  bioengineered  organism  into  the  environment,  says  John 
Payne  of  USDA's  Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service.  He  says  proposed  changes  would 
simplify  procedures  for  introducing  genetically  engineered  organisms.  The  amendment  would 
also  allow  less  field  test  reporting  when  no  unexpected  or  adverse  effects  are  observed. 
Additionally,  USDA  scientists  would  be  allowed  to  extend  an  existing  determination  to  articles 
closely  resembling  an  organism  that  has  already  been  determined  to  be  safe.  Send  comments 
by  October  23  to  USDA's  APHIS,  4700  River  Road,  Unit  118,  Riverdale,  MD  20737.  Contact: 
Kendra  Pratt  (301)  734-6573. 

HOT  OR  COLD,  KEEP  IT  SAFE  --  The  good  old  days  of  packing  school  lunches  are  here  again. 
If  you're  packing  lunches  for  school  or  work,  keeping  food  safe  is  important,  says  Bessie  Berry, 
the  acting  director  of  USDA's  Meat  and  Poultry  Hotline.  Berry  says  there  are  three  rules  when 
packing  sack  lunches:  keep  hot  food  hot,  keep  cold  food  cold  and  keep  food  clean.  Letting  ice 
water  or  boiling  water  sit  in  a  clean  thermos  before  putting  foods  in  will  keep  them  colder  or  hotter 
longer.  How  you  pack  food  is  important  as  well,  says  Berry.  She  says  food  should  be  wrapped 
carefully  to  keep  it  clean,  and  lunch  boxes  and  thermoses  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  with  soap 
and  warm  water  every  day.  But  don't  re-use  bags  or  use  bags  that  once  held  groceries,  cautions 
Berry.  She  says  using  grocery  bags  can  pass  on  insects  or  bacteria  to  lunch  food.  For  more 
information  on  packing  a  safe  lunch  or  any  food  safety  information,  call  USDA's  Meat  and  Poultry 
Hotline  at  1-800-535-4555.  Contact:  Bessie  Berry  (202)  720-5604. 


Edited  by  Lori  Spiczka  Holm 


3 

FROM  OUR  RADIO  SERVICE 

AGRICULTURE  USA  #  1995  -  USDA  has  a  new  Under  Secretary,  and  she  is  the  focus  of  this 
week's  Agriculture  USA.  Brenda  Curtis  talks  with  Jill  Long  about  her  plans  for  turning  rural 
America  around.  (Weekly  cassette  --  five  minute  documentary). 

CONSUMER  TIME  #  1474  -  Drinking  water  concerns.  Chickens  are  safer  from  E-coli  bacteria 
with  help  from  antibiotic.  Taking  preventive  medicine  seriously.  Changing  rural  America. 
Secretary  Dan  Glickman  talks  about  HACCP.  (Weekly  cassette  consumer  features). 

AGRITAPE  FEATURES  #  1987  -  New  hope  for  sick  chickens.  Herbicides  in  drinking  water. 
Farm  exports  in  the  year  2010.  The  successful  "green"  industry.  (Weekly  cassette  -  news 
features). 

UPCOMING  ON  USDA  RADIO  NEWSLINE  -  Tuesday,  August  29,  weekly  weather  and  crops. 
Thursday,  August  31,  agricultural  exports;  poultry  outlook;  agricultural  prices;  tobacco  world 
markets  and  trade.  Friday,  September  1,  poultry  slaughter;  world  horticultural  trade  and  export 
opportunities.  Monday,  September  4,  HOLIDAY.  Tuesday,  September  5,  weekly  weather  and 
crops.  These  are  USDA  reports  we  know  about  in  advance.  Our  newsline  carries  many 
stories  every  day  which  are  not  listed  in  this  lineup. 

USDA  RADIO  NEWSLINES  (202)  488-8358  or  8359. 

COMREX  ENCODED  (202)  720-2545 

Material  changed  at  5:00  p.m.,  ET,  each  working  day  and  10:30  a.m.  on  crop  report  days. 

FROM  OUR  TELEVISION  SERVICE 

FEATURES  -  Patrick  O'Leary  reports  on  how  USDA's  "Water  2000"  program  brought  clean 
running  water  to  a  rural  community  in  Illinois. 

ACTUALITIES  -  Agriculture  Secretary  Dan  Glickman  talks  about  labeling  requirements  for  fresh 
and  frozen  poultry  and  about  upcoming  public  meetings  on  the  proposal  to  improve  meat  and 
poultry  safety.  USDA  economist  Nathan  Childs  on  the  rise  in  Consumer  Price  Index  for  food  and 
growth  in  the  greenhouse  and  nursery  crop  industry.  USDA  economist  Leland  Southard 
discusses  red  meat  and  poultry  exports.  USDA  meteorologist  Bob  Stefanski  comments  on  the 
latest  weather  and  crop  conditions. 

UPCOMING  -  Patrick  O'Leary  reports  on  USDA  "Beagle  Brigade's"  tenth  anniversary,  and  Lynn 
Wyvill  reports  on  growing  tomatoes  using  organic  mulch. 

ATTENTION  BROADCASTERS:  There  are  some  satellite  changes  in  next  week's  television 
newsfeed.  Please  make  a  note  of  them.  Monday,  August  28,  from  1 1 :00  to  1 1 : 1 5  a.m.  EDT. 
Telstar401  (C-Band),  Channel  18,  downlink  frequency  4060  MHZ,  Audio  6.2  and  6.8.  Thursday, 
August  31,  Galaxy  6,  C-band,  Transponder  1,  Channel  1  Downlink  Frequency  3720  MHz,  Audio 
6.2  and  6.8. 

Comments  and  suggestions  are  welcome  regarding  USDA  broadcast  services. 

Call  Larry  A.  Quinn,  (202)  720-6072;  write  1618-S,  USDA,  Washington,  D.C.  20250-1300. 


OFF  MIKE 


4 


CELLULAR  BROADCASTING. ..is  a  convenient  and  reliable  way  to  handle  remote  broadcasts 
these  days.  Tom  Brand  and  Tom  Beavers  (KMA,  Shenandoah,  IA)  recently  broadcast  live  from 
17  county  fairs,  covering  16  in  15  days.  They  took  along  their  computer  marketing  source  so  they 
could  include  markets  in  their  remote  reports.  Brand  estimates  that  they  only  went  off-the-air 
three  times  out  of  200  wireless  broadcasts  through  cellular  phone  connections.  Two  weeks  ago, 
KMA  Radio  celebrated  its  70th  Anniversary,  and  500  listeners  came  for  free  pancakes  and 
sausage  to  help  them  celebrate. 


BOVINE  TB  CASE. ..was  verified  in  a  dairy  heifer  in  northeast  Wisconsin  by  a  USDA  lab.  Bob 
Meyer  (Goetz  Farm  Radio  Network,  Marshfield,  Wl)  reported  that  the  state  veterinarian  is  working 
to  trace  the  source  since  Wisconsin  is  certified  tuberculosis  free.  Crops  are  looking  good 
because  ms  hot  summer  helpso  outgrow  the  late  siart  caused  by  a  cool  spring.  Bob  still  gets 
help  in  covering  farm  shows  for  his  45-station  Wisconsin  network  from  Les  Leonard  who  marked 
his  70th  birthday  this  year. 


50  YEARS.. .as  a  state  fair  exhibitor?  Dave  Russell  (Tribune  Radio  Networks,  Indianapolis,  IN) 
discovered  one  family  that  had  been  a  hog  exhibitor  for  55  years  and  another  one  that  had 
entered  the  sheep  competition  for  50  years  at  the  Indiana  State  Fair.  Dave  just  wrapped  up  12 
days  of  coverage  there  at  the  “hottest  State  Fair  on  record.”  Even  the  longtime  exhibitors  couldn’t 
remember  so  many  90-degree  days.  The  upcoming  Farm  Progress  Show  at  Jarvis  Farms  near 
Terre  Flaute,  IN  on  September  26-28  will  feature  a  panel  of  former  Secretaries  of  Agriculture  on 
the  first  day,  Russell  reports. 


SWINE  PRODUCTION. ..is  a  big  tqp1<787Morth  Carolina.  Bob  Ellison,  broadcaster  with  the  North 
Carolina  Farm  Bureau,  says  there  is  concern  for  better  monitoring  of  hog  waste  lagoons.  He  says 
our  radio  newsline  and  cassette  services  are  useful  in  preparation  of  their  weekly  broadcasts. 


LARRY  QUINN,  Director 
Video,  Teleconference  and  Radio  Center 


\^m  Broadcasters  Letter 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
Office  of  Communications 
Room  1618-S 

Washington,  DC  20250-1300 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  lor  Private  Use  S300 


