Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


<7  USDA 


h 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 

Animal  and 
Plant  Health 
Inspection 
Service 

Program  Aid 
No.  1625 

Issued 

January  1998 


APHIS  and  You: 

Protecting  American  Agriculture 


You  have  been  randomly  selected  to  participate  in  an  inspection 
that  will  assess  the  risk  of  exotic  plant  and  animal  pests  and 
diseases  entering  the  United  States  through  various  ports  of 
entry.  The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture's  (USDA)  Animal  and 
Plant  Health  Inspection  Service  (APHIS)  is  trying  to  determine 
the  risk  associated  with  travelers  introducing  foreign  animal  and 
plant  pests  and  diseases  that  could  seriously  damage  American 
agriculture. 

American  agriculture  is  under  constant  threat  of  attack.  The 
enemies  are  countless  and  often  microscopic.  They  include 
animal  and  plant  pests  and  diseases  that  can  gain  access  to  this 
country  in  surprising  ways.  Every  traveler  entering  the  United 
States  and  every  American  business  importing  agricultural 
products  from  other  countries  may  unknowingly  carry  these 
hitchhikers  across  U.S.  borders. 


i  Today,  APHIS  inspectors  are  thoroughly  examining  randomly 

selected  baggage  and  passenger  and  commercial  vehicles  to 
collect  information  that  will  enable  them  to  do  a  more  efficient 
and  effective  job  of  preventing  pest  and  disease  entry,  and 
therefore,  improve  APHIS'  ability  to  safeguard  American 
agriculture.  Your  cooperation  is  appreciated. 

Thank  you  for  helping  protect  American  agriculture. 

To  obtain  more  information  regarding  the  inspection  process,  or 
to  submit  comments  or  questions,  please  write  to  USDA,  APHIS, 
PPQ,  Operational  Support,  4700  River  Road,  Unit  140, 
Riverdale,  MD  20737-1237,  or  visit  us  on  the  web  at 
http://www.aphis.usda.gov/oa/exclude.html. 


The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  prohibits  discrimina- 
tion in  its  programs  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  national  origin, 
sex,  religion,  age,  disability,  political  beliefs,  and  marital  or 
familial  status.  (Not  all  prohibited  bases  apply  to  all  programs.) 
Persons  with  disabilities  who  require  alternative  means  for 
communication  of  program  information  (Braille,  large  print, 
audiotape,  etc.)  should  contact  USDA's  TARGET  Center  at 
(202)  720-2600  (voice  and  TDD). 

To  file  a  complaint,  write  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  DC  20250,  or  call 
(800)  245-6340  (voice)  or  (202)  720-1 127  (TDD).  USDA  is  an 
equal  employment  opportunity  employer. 

*U.S.  GPO:  1998-617-223/91304 


NATIONAL  AGRICULTURAL  LIBRARY 


1022590630 


