Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


fans 

f  tj  o  Jrrd  >  Department  of  Agriculture 

-ant  Health  Inspection  Service 

Reserved 

Program  Aid  No.  600 

Foot-and-Mouth 


A  Foreign  Threat  to  U.S.  Livestock 


Y 


ir. 


r 
i 


UD 


Received i 
I  Indexing  Brai 


ens 


Foot-and-Mouth 
Disease 


A  Foreign  Threat  to  U.S.  Livestock 

Foot-and-mouth  disease  (FMD)  is  a  severe,  highly 
communicable  viral  disease  of  cattle  and  swine.  It 
also  affects  sheep,  goats,  deer,  and  other  ruminants 
(cloven-hoofed,  cud-chewing  quadrupeds).  FMD 
generally  does  not  affect  humans. 

This  country  has  been  free  of  FMD  since  1929, 
when  the  last  of  nine  U.S.  outbreaks  was  eradi- 
cated. 

The  disease  is  characterized  by  fever  and  by 
blisterlike  lesions  in  the  mouth  and  on  the  teats  and 
feet.  Many  affected  animals  recover,  but  the 
disease  leaves  them  debilitated,  and  it  causes 
losses  in  the  production  of  meat  and  milk. 

Because  it  spreads  widely  and  rapidly  and  because 
it  has  grave  economic  as  well  as  physical  conse- 
quences, FMD  is  one  of  the  animal  diseases  that 
livestock  owners  dread  most. 


Drooling  and  smacking  of  the  lips 
are  early  signs  of  FMD. 


Recently  ruptured  vesicle  (blister)  above 
the  dental  pad. 


Tongue  vesicles  that  have  ruptured 
and  begun  to  slough. 


Cause 

The  disease  is  caused  by  a  microscopic  disease- 
producing  virus.  The  virus  has  a  remarkable 
capacity  for  remaining  viable  in  carcasses,  in  animal 
byproducts,  in  water,  in  such  materials  as  straw  and 
bedding,  and  even  in  pastures. 

There  are  at  least  seven  separate  types  and  many 
subtypes  of  the  FMD  virus.  Animals  may  be  af- 
fected by  one  or  more  of  these  at  the  same  time. 
Recovered  animals  may  suffer  repeated  attacks  of 
the  disease  because  immunity  to  one  type  does  not 
protect  an  animal  against  the  others. 


Ruptured  vesicle  producing  erosive 
lesion  of  the  gum. 


Newly  formed  vesicle  (small  white  area) 
on  a  hog's  snout. 


Signs 

Vesicles  (blisters)  in  the  mouth,  on  the  tongue  and 
lips,  on  the  teats,  or  between  the  toes— and  the 
resulting  slobbering  or  lameness — are  the  best 
known  signs  of  the  disease.  Often  blisters  may  not 
be  observed  until  they  have  ruptured. 

Some  of  these  other  signs  may  appear  in  affected 
animals  during  an  FMD  outbreak: 

•  Temperatures  rise  markedly — especially  in  young 
animals — then  usually  fall  in  about  48  hours. 

•  Ruptured  vesicles  discharge  either  clear  or  cloudy 
fluid  and  leave  raw,  eroded  areas  surrounded  by 
ragged  fragments  of  loose  tissue. 


Ruptured  vesicle  on  the  dental  pad. 


A  ruptured  vesicle  with  blanching  of 
tissue  in  the  interdigital  space. 


•  Sticky,  foamy,  stringy  saliva  is  produced. 

•  Consumption  of  feed  is  reduced  because  of 
painful  tongue  and  mouth  lesions. 

•  Lameness  with  reluctance  to  move  is  often 
observed. 

•  Abortions  often  occur. 

•  Milk  flow  of  infected  cows  drops  abruptly. 

•  Conception  rates  may  be  low. 

Meat  animals  do  not  normally  regain  lost  flesh  for 
many  months.  Recovered  cows  seldom  produce 
milk  at  their  former  rates.  Death  from  FMD  occurs 
most  often  in  newborn  animals  and  with  variable 
frequency  in  older  animals. 


Unruptured  teat  lesion  on  a  cow. 


Ruptured  teat  lesion  with  necrosis. 


Where  Does  FMD  Occur? 

The  disease  is  widespread.  Various  types  of  the 
FMD  virus  have  been  identified  in  Africa,  South 
America,  Asia,  and  Europe. 

North  America,  Central  America,  Australia,  New 
Zealand,  Japan,  Chile,  and  some  countries  in 
Europe  are  considered  free  of  FMD  because  gov- 
ernments there  have  conducted  effective  programs 
to  prevent  its  introduction  or  to  eradicate  it. 


Confusion  With  Other  Diseases 

FMD  can  be  confused  with  several  similar — but  less 
harmful — domestic  diseases,  such  as  vesicular 
stomatitis,  bovine  virus  diarrhea,  and  foot  rot. 
Whenever  blisters  or  other  typical  signs  are  ob- 
served and  reported,  tests  must  be  made  to  deter- 
mine whether  the  disease  causing  them  is  FMD. 

How  It  Spreads 

FMD  can  be  spread  by  animals,  people,  or  materials 
that  bring  the  virus  into  physical  contact  with  sus- 
ceptible animals.  An  outbreak  may  occur  when: 

•  People  wearing  contaminated  clothes  or  footwear 
or  using  contaminated  equipment  pass  the  virus  to 
susceptible  animals. 

•  Animals  carrying  the  virus  are  introduced  into 
susceptible  herds. 

•  Contaminated  facilities  are  used  to  hold  suscep- 
tible animals. 

•  Contaminated  vehicles  are  used  to  move  suscep- 
tible animals. 

•  Raw  or  improperly  cooked  garbage  containing 
infected  meat  or  animal  products  is  fed  to  suscep- 
tible animals. 

•  Susceptible  animals  are  exposed  to  materials 
such  as  hay,  feedstuffs,  hides,  or  biologies  contami- 
nated with  the  virus. 

•  Susceptible  animals  drink  contaminated  water. 

•  A  susceptible  cow  is  inseminated  with  material 
from  an  infected  bull. 

Prevention  and  Control 

FMD  is  one  of  the  most  difficult  animal  infections  to 
control.  Because  the  disease  occurs  in  many  parts 
of  the  world,  there  is  always  a  chance  of  its  acciden- 
tal introduction  into  the  United  States. 

Animals  and  animal  byproducts  from  areas  known  to 
be  infected  are  prohibited  entry  into  this  country.  A 
single  infected  animal  or  one  contaminated  sausage 
could  carry  the  virus  to  American  livestock. 

Animals  in  this  country  are  highly  susceptible  to 
FMD.  They  have  not  developed  immunity  to  it 
because  FMD  has  not  occurred  here  since  1929  and 
because  U.S.  veterinarians  do  not  vaccinate  against 
it.  If  an  outbreak  were  to  occur  in  the  United  States, 
this  disease  could  spread  rapidly  to  all  sections  of 
the  country  by  routine  livestock  movements  unless 
detected  early  and  eradicated  immediately. 


If  FMD  were  to  spread  unchecked,  the  economic 
impact  could  reach  billions  of  dollars  in  the  first  year. 
The  Nation's  deer  and  other  wildlife  populations 
could  also  rapidly  become  infected  and  remain  a 
reservoir  of  infection. 


What  You  Can  Do 

You  can  back  up  the  Nation's  efforts  against 
FMD  by: 

•  Watching  for  slobbering,  lameness,  and  other 
signs  of  FMD  in  your  herd. 

•  Immediately  reporting  any  unusual  or  suspicious 
signs  of  disease  to  your  veterinarian,  to  State  or 
Federal  animal  disease-control  officials,  or  to  your 
county  agricultural  agent. 

If  foot-and-mouth  disease  should  appear  in  your 
animals,  your  report  will  set  in  motion  an  effective 
State  and  Federal  eradication  program. 

Your  participation  is  vital.  Both  the  early  recognition 
of  disease  signs  and  the  prompt  notification  of 
officials  are  essential  if  eradication  is  to  be  carried 
out  successfully.  Your  warning  may  prevent 
FMD  from  becoming  established  in  the  United 
States,  or— if  it  does  spread— reduce  the  time  and 
money  needed  to  wipe  it  out. 


This  is  one  of  a  series  of  publications  designed  to 
acquaint  American  livestock  producers  with  foreign 
animal  diseases  and  the  steps  to  take  if  an  outbreak 
is  suspected.  For  more  information  about  foreign 
animal  diseases,  contact  your  local  veterinarian, 
your  county  agent,  or  State  or  Federal  animal 
disease-control  officials. 


Photographs  provided  by  the  Plum  Island  Animal  Disease  Center, 
Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service,  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture. 

All  programs  of  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  are  available  to 
anyone  without  regard  to  race,  creed,  color,  gender,  disability, 
religion,  or  national  origin. 


Issued  February  1992 


