Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 


Animal  and 
Plant  Health 
Inspection 
Service 

Program  Aid  1 1 1 7 


Licensing  and 
Registration 
Under  the 
Animal  Welfare  Act 

Guidelines  for  Dealers, 
Exhibitors,  Transporters, 
and  Researchers  ^ ; 


The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  prohibits  discrimination  in  its 
programs  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  religion,  age, 
disability,  political  beliefs,  and  marital  or  familial  status.  (Not  all  prohibited 
bases  apply  to  all  programs.)  Persons  with  disabilities  who  require 
alternative  means  for  communication  of  program  information  (Braille, 
large  print,  audio  tape,  etc.)  should  contact  the  USDA's  TARGET  Center 
at  (202)  720-2600  (voice  and  TDD). 

To  file  a  complaint,  write  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  DC,  20250,  or  call  (202)  720-7327  (voice)  or 
(202)  720-11 27  (TDD).  USDA  is  an  equal  employment  opportunity 
employer. 

Revised  April  1 992 
Slightly  revised  July  1997 


Reference  Index 


Page 

Animal  Dealers 

Basic  information   9 

Animal  Sales  (general): 

Auction  operators- 
Regulated  animals  sold  Licensed  10 

Nonregulated  animals  sold  Exempt  10 

Boarding  kennels- 
Holding  facilities  for  dealers  Controlled  12 

Intermediate  handlers  transport  ..  Registered  12 

Other  boarding  kennels  Exempt   12 

Brokers  Licensed   9 

Direct  sales  Exempt   1 1 

Hobby  breeders  Exempt  11 

Nonregulated  species  Exempt  12 

Pet  stores  Exempt  1 1 

Pounds,  public  Exempt  1 1 

Promoters  (animal  prizes)  Licensed  10 

Shelters,  private  Exempt  11 

Trade-day  sale  sponsors  Exempt  12 

Laboratory  Animal  Trade: 

Breeders  Licensed   9 

Brokers  Licensed   9 

Bunchers  Licensed   9 

Dealers  Licensed   9 

Holding  facilities  Controlled   12 

Importers  Licensed   9 

Specimens  (all  sales)  Licensed   10 

Pet  Animal  Trade: 

Breeders- 
Direct  sales  Exempt   1 1 

Sales  via  pet  stores  Licensed   1 1 

Sales  of  breeding  stock  Licensed   9 

Brokers  Licensed   9 

Bunchers  Licensed   9 

Chain  stores — 

No  wild  animals  sold                  Exempt   1 1 

Selling  wild  animals  Licensed   1 1 

Importers  Licensed   9 


3 


Page 

Retailers — 

Wild  animals  sold  Licensed   11 

With  off-premises  exhibits  Licensed   1 1 

No  wild  animals  sold  and 

no  off-premises  exhibits  Exempt   11 

Trade-day  sale  sponsors  Exempt   12 

Wholesalers—  Licensed   9 

Exotic  Animal  Trade: 

Chain  stores — 

No  wild  animals  sold  Exempt   10 

Wild  animals  sold  Licensed   10 

Importers  Licensed   10 

Retailers— 

No  wild  animals  sold  Exempt   10 

Wild  animals  sold  Licensed   10 

Wholesalers  Licensed   10 

Wild  animal  dealers  Licensed   10 

Animal  Exhibitors 

Basic  Information   14 

Zoological  Parks: 

Aquariums- 
Marine  mammal  exhibits  Licensed   14 

All  others  Exempt   14 

Aviaries  Exempt   16 

City  zoos  Licensed   14 

Farm  exhibits  Exempt   15 

Federal  Government  zoos  Controlled   14 

Marine  mammal  exhibits  Licensed   14 

Petting  zoos  Licensed   14 

Private  zoos — 

Closed  to  the  public  Exempt   15 

Open  to  the  public  Licensed   15 

Rabbits,  exhibits  of  Licensed   14 

Registered  exhibitors  Registered   14 

Reptile  houses  Exempt   16 

Roadside  zoos  Licensed   15 

State  zoos  Licensed   14 


4 


Page 


Businesses  With  Nonperforming  Animals: 

Carnivals — 

Animals  used  as  prizes  Licensed   15 

Animals  on  exhibit  Licensed   15 

Game  preserves  Exempt   16 

Hunting  preserves  Exempt   16 

Non regulated  species  Exempt   16 

Promotional  exhibits  Licensed   15 


Businesses  With  Performing  Animals: 

Amusement  parks- 
Owning  animals  Licensed   15 

Not  owning  animals  Exempt   15 

Animal  acts  Licensed   16 

Aquatic  shows  Licensed   14 

Circus  acts  Licensed   15 

Marine  mammal  acts  Licensed   14 

Nonregulated  species  Exempt   16 

Booking  agents  Exempt   16 

Licensed  acts  Exempt   16 

Unlicensed  acts  (foreign)   Licensed   16 

TV  and  movie  acts  Licensed   15 


Competition  Involving  Animals: 

Cockfighting  ventures  

Dogfighting  ventures  

Fighting  ventures  (mammals) ... 

Horse  shows  

Hunts  

Pet  shows  

Rodeos  

Animal  Transporters 


Controlled   15 

Prohibited   15 

Prohibited   15 

Exempt   16 

Exempt   16 

Exempt   16 

Exempt   16 


Basic  Information   13 

Carriers' terminals  Controlled   13 

Dealer-owned  transport  Licensed   13 

Intermediate  handlers  Registered   13 

Nonregulated  businesses  Exempt   13 

Private  carriers  Licensed   13 

Public  carriers  Registered   13 


5 


Research  Facilities 

Basic  Information  , 

Diagnostic  Laboratories  , 

Institutions  Selling  or  Trading  Animals: 


State-owned  facilities  Registered 

Private  and  local  facilities  Lic/reg  

Types  of  Research  Facilities: 

Agricultural  research  Exempt  

Behavioral  studies  Registered 

Biological  specimens  Exempt  

College  laboratories  Registered 

Drug  firms  Registered 

Federal  facilities  Controlled . 

Laboratory  tests  Registered 

Marine  mammal  research  Registered 

Nonregulated  species  Exempt  

Privately  owned  facilities  Registered 

Quality-control  studies  Registered 

Secondary  school  laboratories  Exempt  

State-owned  facilities  Registered 


6 


Introduction 


Ensuring  proper  animal  care  and  comfort  is  not  just  good  business — it  is 
also  required  by  law  under  the  Animal  Welfare  Act.  Passed  by  Congress 
in  1966  and  amended  in  1970,  1976,  1985,  and  1990,  the  law  protects 
many  animals  not  raised  for  food  or  fiber.  It  also  sets  stiff  penalties  for 
sponsors  and  promoters  of  outlawed  animal-fighting  ventures. 

Many  businesses  that  buy  or  sell  warmblooded  animals,  exhibit  them  to 
the  public,  transport  them  commercially,  or  use  them  in  experiments  or 
teaching  must  be  licensed  or  registered  by  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  (USDA).  Normal  farm-type  operations  that  raise,  or  buy  and 
sell,  animals  only  for  food  and  fiber,  and  businesses  that  use  only  fish  and 
other  coldblooded  animals  are  exempt  by  law;  those  that  use  only  rats, 
mice,  or  birds  are  exempt  by  regulation.  The  rabbit  business  is  exempt 
from  regulation  if  the  rabbits  are  intended  only  for  food  or  fiber.  If  any 
rabbits  are  designated  for  use  in  the  pet,  exhibit,  or  laboratory-animal 
trade,  the  business  is  regulated.  Certain  other  types  of  businesses  are 
specifically  exempt  by  law  or  regulation.  No  exempt  business  has  to  be 
licensed  or  registered. 

This  pamphlet  lists  the  major  types  of  regulated  and  exempt  businesses, 
but  it  does  not  cover  all  cases.  If  in  doubt  about  your  status,  telephone  or 
write  the  Regional  Office  of  the  USDA,  Animal  and  Plant  Health 
Inspection  Service  (APHIS),  Animal  Care  (AC)  for  your  State  (see  page 
19).  AC  personnel  will  answer  your  questions  and  provide  a  copy  of  the 
Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  Title  9,  Chapter  1 ,  Subchapter  A,  which 
gives  the  legal  requirements  for  businesses  regulated  by  the  Animal 
Welfare  Act. 

If  you  are  an  owner  or  the  person  in  charge  of  a  regulated  business,  the 
law  requires  you  to  be  licensed  or  registered  with  USDA.  Failure  to 
become  licensed  or  registered  is  a  punishable  violation  of  the  Animal 
Welfare  Act. 

On  the  basis  of  information  you  supply,  APHIS  determines  whether  your 
business  should  be  licensed,  registered,  or  both.  Licensing  involves  a 
yearly  fee;  registration  is  free.  The  owner,  operator,  or  manager  has 
responsibility  for  knowing  about  licensing  or  registration  requirements. 

The  annual  license  fee  for  licensed  animal  dealers  (Class  A  or  B)  ranges 
from  $30  to  $750,  depending  on  your  annual  dollar  volume  of  business  in 
regulated  animals.  (Class  A  licensees  are  breeders  and  deal  only  in 
animals  they  breed  and  raise.  Class  B  licensees  include  brokers, 
bunchers,  and  operators  of  auction  sales.)  The  annual  license  fee  for 
licensed  animal  exhibitors  (Class  C)  ranges  from  $30  to  $300,  depending 


7 


on  the  number  of  regulated  animals  held.  In  addition  to  the  annual 
license  fee,  an  application  fee  of  $10  must  be  paid  with  all  yearly  license 
applications. 

The  same  standards  of  animal  care  apply  to  all  registered  and  licensed 
businesses,  and  APHIS  field  inspectors  make  periodic  unannounced 
visits  to  all  locations  where  animals  are  held  to  see  that  regulations  and 
standards  are  followed. 

Basically,  the  Federal  animal  care  standards  cover  humane  handling, 
housing,  space,  feeding  and  watering,  sanitation,  ventilation,  shelter  from 
extremes  of  weather,  adequate  veterinary  care,  separation  of  incompatible 
animals,  transportation,  and  handling  in  transit. 

If  your  facilities  or  practices  do  not  meet  Federal  standards  when  you 
apply,  you  will  receive  up  to  three  inspections  within  a  period  not  to 
exceed  90  days  to  correct  any  deficiencies.  Licenses  are  not  issued  until 
all  deficiencies  are  corrected.  If  you  do  not  pass  inspection  within  the  90- 
day  period,  you  must  wait  at  least  6  months  before  reapplying  for  a  license. 
Legal  action  results  if  you  operate  a  regulated  business  without  a  license. 


8 


Animal  Dealers 


If  your  business  falls  under  any  of  the  categories  of  "dealers"  listed  below, 
you  must  be  licensed  by  USDA.  You  cannot  be  licensed  or  registered  as 
an  exhibitor.  You  must  be  licensed  according  to  what  type  of  activity  is 
your  predominate  business.  When  first  contacting  APHIS,  indicate  the 
species  you  handle,  the  type  of  business  you  are  in,  and  the  type  of 
business  to  which  you  sell  animals.  You  can  hold  one  type  of  license 
only. 

Regulated  Businesses 

Pet  Wholesalers — Anyone  importing,  buying,  selling,  or  trading  pets  in 
wholesale  channels  must  be  licensed.  Annual  license  fees  are  based  on 
the  amount  received  from  the  sale  of  regulated  animals  less  the  amount 
paid  for  these  animals. 

Pet  Breeders — Anyone  breeding  pets  for  the  wholesale  trade  must  be 
licensed.  You  also  may  have  to  be  licensed  if  you  sell  dogs  as  breeding 
stock  to  other  breeders.  Some  small-scale  breeders  can  qualify  for  an 
exemption  (see  "Hobby  Breeders").  Annual  license  fees  are  based  on  50 
percent  of  gross  sales  of  regulated  animals. 

Laboratory  Animal  Dealers — Anyone  importing,  buying,  selling,  or 
trading  laboratory  animals,  either  directly  to  research  institutions  or 
through  other  dealers,  must  be  licensed.  This  licensing  requirement 
includes  "bunchers,"  who  supply  dealers  with  dogs,  cats,  and  other 
regulated  animals  collected  from  random  sources;  it  also  includes 
research  institutions  (except  State  or  Federal  facilities)  that  sell  or  trade 
surplus  animals  to  others.  Annual  license  fees  are  based  on  the  amount 
received  from  the  sale  of  regulated  animals  less  the  amount  paid  for 
these  animals. 

Laboratory  Animal  Breeders— Anyone  breeding  regulated  animals  for 
laboratory-animal  trade  must  be  licensed.  Annual  license  fees  are  based 
on  50  percent  of  gross  sales  of  regulated  animals. 

Animal  Brokers — Anyone  who  deals  in  regulated  animals  but  does  not 
take  physical  possession  must  be  licensed.  If  you  meet  this  definition  of  a 
broker,  you  are  exempt  from  certain  regulations  imposed  on  dealers  who 
handle  animals,  but  you  need  the  same  type  of  license.  Annual  license 
fees  are  based  on  income  from  commissions  and  brokerage  fees  (with  no 
deductions). 


9 


Auction  Operators — Anyone  who  operates  an  auction  at  which  regulated 
animals  are  sold  must  be  licensed.  For  example,  licenses  must  be 
acquired  by  radio  and  television  stations  that  conduct  auctions  with 
telephone  bids  on  regulated  animals— whether  or  not  the  proceeds  go  to 
charity.  Annual  license  fees  for  auction  operators  are  based  on  income 
from  commissions  and  fees  from  selling  regulated  animals. 

Promoters  Giving  Animal  Prizes — A  carnival  concessionaire  or  other 
promoter  who  gives  regulated  animals  as  prizes  must  be  licensed. 
Annual  license  fees  are  based  on  the  amount  paid  to  the  promoter  to  offer 
animal  prizes  less  the  amount  paid  for  these  animals. 

Exotic  Animal  Dealers — Anyone  importing,  buying,  selling,  or  trading 
animals  foreign  to  the  United  States  (wild  or  domesticated)  must  be 
licensed.  You  also  must  be  licensed  if  you  sell  domestically  bred  exotic 
animals.  Annual  license  fees  are  based  on  the  amount  received  from  the 
sale  of  regulated  animals  less  the  amount  paid  for  these  animals. 

Wild  Animal  Dealers — A  business  or  individual  selling  wild  animals  must 
be  licensed.  "Wild  animals"  means  any  animal  that  is  now  or  historically 
has  been  found  in  the  wild,  or  in  the  wild  state,  within  the  boundaries  of 
the  United  States,  its  territories,  or  possessions.  This  term  includes,  but 
is  not  limited  to,  animals  such  as  deer,  skunk,  raccoon,  mink,  armadillo, 
coyote,  squirrel,  fox,  and  wolf. 

If  you  sell  any  wild  or  exotic  animals,  you  are  not  eligible  to  claim 
exemption  as  a  retail  pet  store.  You  become  a  full-fledged  dealer,  and 
you  must  comply  with  standards  of  care  for  all  regulated  animals — not  just 
wild  or  exotic  animals.  Annual  license  fees  are  based  on  the  amount 
received  from  the  sale  of  regulated  animals  less  the  amount  paid  for 
these  animals. 

Suppliers  of  Specimens — Anyone  who  sells  dead  animals  that  are 
regulated  or  who  sells  the  blood,  serum,  or  parts  of  these  animals  must 
be  licensed.  Annual  license  fees  are  based  on  income  from  specimens 
less  cost  of  the  specimens  or  the  animals  from  which  they  were  prepared. 


10 


Exempt  Businesses 

Retail  Pet  Stores — Anyone  whose  entire  business  consists  of  selling 
domestic  animals  to  pet  owners  is  exempt.  However,  if  as  part  of  your 
business  you  exhibit  animals,  you  may  have  to  be  licensed  as  an 
exhibitor. 

For  example,  you  need  an  exhibitor's  license  if  you  take  animals  outside 
the  store  for  teaching  or  promotion  or  if  you  set  up  a  petting  display.  You 
must  be  licensed  as  a  dealer  if  you  sell  wild  or  exotic  animals,  or  if  you 
sell  regulated  animals  to  other  retailers,  research  institutions,  exhibitors, 
or  other  animal  dealers.  You  need  to  be  licensed  as  an  exhibitor  if  you 
display  a  monkey  or  other  wild  animal  inside  the  store. 

Exemptions  for  retail  pet  stores  are  on  an  all-or-nothing  basis.  If  you 
qualify  for  exemption,  none  of  your  business  is  regulated  or  inspected.  If 
you  do  not  qualify,  you  are  a  full-fledged  dealer,  and  all  your  regulated 
animals  are  inspected. 

Retail  Chain  Stores — Centrally  managed  stores  that  sell  pets  entirely  at 
retail  are  exempt.  Like  independent  retailers,  chains  are  treated  as 
business  entities  on  an  all-or-nothing  basis.  If  all  outlets  qualify  as  retail 
pet  stores,  the  entire  chain  is  free  from  regulation.  Conversely,  if  any 
outlet  does  not  qualify  as  a  retail  pet  store,  the  company  must  be  licensed 
as  a  dealer,  and  all  regulated  animals  at  all  outlets  are  inspected. 

Direct  Sales — Anyone  who  sells  domestic  pets  directly  to  pet  owners  is 
exempt,  regardless  of  sales  volume.  Such  sales  can  be  made  in  person 
or  by  mail. 

Hobby  Breeders — Small-scale  breeders  with  gross  sales  under  $500  per 
year  are  exempt,  as  long  as  these  sales  do  not  include  wild  or  exotic 
animals,  dogs,  or  cats.  If  you  own  no  more  than  three  breeding  female 
dogs  or  cats  and  sell  the  offspring,  into  the  pet  channels  only,  you  are 
exempt. 

Public  Pounds — Animal  shelters  that  are  part  of  State,  county,  or  local 
governments  are  exempt.  The  exemption  covers  only  the  pound's  own 
activities.  You  must  have  a  dealer's  license  if  you  purchase  animals  from 
pounds  for  resale  or  acquire  them  on  contract  for  resale.  The  Pet 
Protection  Act  of  1990  places  some  restrictions  on  pounds  and  shelters, 
such  as  a  specific  holding  period  for  animals  before  they  may  be  sold  to  a 
dealer. 

Private  Shelters — Animal  shelters  operated  by  humane  societies  and 
other  private  groups  are  exempt  unless  animals  are  disposed  of  through 
trade  channels  as  pets  or  to  research  institutions  for  use  as  laboratory 
animals,  or  animals  are  taken  off  the  premises  for  exhibition  to  the  public. 


11 


Trade-Day  Sales  Sponsors — Anyone  arranging  occasions  for  people  to 
make  private  sales  or  trades  of  animals  is  exempt.  The  exemption  holds 
only  if  the  sponsor  does  not  act  as  intermediary  in  the  transaction.  The 
buyers,  sellers,  and  traders  at  trade-day  sales,  however,  must  be  licensed 
if  they  meet  the  definition  of  a  dealer. 

Boarding  Kennels — Anyone  housing  animals  for  others  is  exempt, 
except  for  intermediate  handlers  and  holding  facilities.  You  must  be 
registered  as  an  intermediate  handler  if,  as  part  of  your  services,  you 
receive  shipment  of  regulated  animals  traveling  on  public  carriers.  You 
have  to  agree  in  writing  to  observe  USDA's  standards  of  animal  care  if 
you  operate  a  holding  facility — meaning  that  you  board  regulated  animals 
for  licensed  dealers  or  research  facilities.  APHIS  inspects  regulated 
animals  in  holding  facilities  to  ensure  that  they  receive  the  required  care; 
dealers  or  research  facilities  need  prior  APHIS  approval  to  board 
regulated  animals  with  you. 

Dealers  in  a  Nonregulated  Species — There  is  a  blanket  exemption  for 
anyone  handling  only  those  animals  not  included  under  Federal  law  or 
regulations  (see  Introduction).  Examples  of  businesses  not  needing 
licensing  or  registration  are  those  restricted  to  birds,  fish,  reptiles,  and 
amphibians. 


12 


Animal  Transporters 


If  you  are  involved  in  any  way  in  the  transportation  of  regulated  animals 
as  part  of  your  business  operation,  you  must  be  licensed  as  a  dealer  or 
registered  as  an  intermediate  handler  or  carrier.  When  contacting  APHIS, 
indicate  whether  you  are  applying  for  a  license  as  a  private  carrier  or  are 
being  registered  as  an  intermediate  handler  or  public  carrier,  as  described 
below. 

Regulated  Businesses 

Carriers — Any  enterprise  transporting  regulated  animals  for  hire  as  a 
common  carrier  must  be  registered  as  a  carrier.  This  includes  airlines, 
railroads,  motor  carriers,  shipping  lines,  and  other  enterprises.  As  a 
carrier,  all  your  facilities  where  animals  are  kept  or  held  are  regulated, 
including  terminals  and  freight  storage.  You  are  responsible  for  enforcing 
all  restrictions  on  animals  that  can  be  legally  shipped  by  your  customers. 
You  also  are  responsible  for  proper  crating,  whether  the  shipper  or 
receiver  is  a  private  pet  owner,  a  business,  an  institution,  or  a 
Government  agency.  Pets  transported  by  their  owners  as  carryon 
baggage  are  not  subject  to  these  restrictions. 

Intermediate  Handlers — Anyone  taking  custody  of  regulated  animals  in 
connection  with  transporting  them  on  public  carriers  must  be  registered  as 
an  intermediate  handler.  This  requirement  covers  boarding  kennels  that 
take  responsibility  for  shipping  animals  or  receiving  them  after  or  during 
shipment,  as  well  as  freight  fonA/arders  and  freight  handlers. 

Contract  Carriers— Anyone  transporting  regulated  animals  by  contract  or 
agreement  must  obtain  a  license  as  a  dealer  and  is  responsible  for 
complying  with  all  regulations  and  standards.  This  requirement  covers 
those  that  are  not  involved  as  common  carriers  or  intermediate  handlers 
but  do  transport  animals  for  profit  or  compensation,  such  as  transporting 
animals  for  licensed  dealers  to  airports,  pet  stores,  etc. 

Exempt  Businesses 

Transporters  of  Nonregulated  Species — There  is  a  blanket  exemption 
for  anyone  transporting  only  animals  not  included  under  Federal  law  or 
regulations  (see  Introduction).  Examples  of  carriers  not  needing  licensing 
or  registration  are  those  restricting  their  services  to  birds,  fish,  reptiles, 
and  amphibians. 

Animal  Taxis — Individuals  who  transport  private  pets  to  and  from  the 
veterinarian,  groomer,  etc. 


13 


Animal  Exhibitors 


If  you  have  animals  on  display  to  the  public  or  conduct  performances 
featuring  animals,  you  must  become  licensed  as  an  exhibitor.  When  first 
contacting  APHIS  about  a  license,  indicate  the  number  and  species  of 
exhibit  animals  you  have  on  hand  because  the  license  fee  is  determined 
by  the  number  of  animals  held  or  exhibited.  Also,  indicate  the  annual 
income  you  receive  from  exhibiting  animals  and  from  trading  in  animals. 
The  annual  license  fees  for  an  exhibitor  are  based  on  the  number  of 
animals  held  or  exhibited. 

Under  special  circumstances,  exhibitors  may  be  registered  instead  of 
licensed,  which  requires  no  fee.  This  applies  to  some  noncommercial 
exhibits,  such  as  municipal  deer  parks  that  do  not  charge  admission  and 
exhibit  only  animals  native  to  the  area. 

If  you  have  a  traveling  animal  show  that  goes  to  more  than  one  State, 
send  your  itinerary  along  with  your  license  application  to  the  AC  Regional 
Office  in  the  area  where  you  have  your  permanent  office  or  winter 
quarters.  Inspections  may  be  conducted  at  sites  where  your  show  is 
performing. 

Regulated  Businesses 

Zoological  Parks — Animal  exhibits  open  to  the  public  must  be  licensed 
whether  they  are  owned  by  States,  counties,  or  other  local  governments; 
corporations;  foundations;  or  private  individuals.  Zoos  run  by  agencies  of 
the  Federal  Government  are  not  licensed  or  registered,  but  the  animals  in 
these  zoos  are  inspected  and  are  subject  to  these  same  USDA  standards 
of  animal  care.  Petting  zoos  with  regulated  animals,  including  rabbits, 
must  be  licensed  and  are  subject  to  special  regulations  protecting  animals 
and  the  public. 

Marine  Mammal  Shows — Exhibits,  shows,  and  ac  s  with  marine 
mammals  must  be  licensed.  This  includes  public  aquariums,  amusement 
parks,  and  zoos.  However,  exhibits  in  which  free-living  marine  mammals 
are  viewed  in  their  natural  state  are  exempt;  examples  are  coastal  seal 
rookeries  or  commercial  whale  sightseeing  tours.  Marine  mammals 
include  polar  bears,  sea  otters,  whales,  porpoises,  dolphins,  manatees, 
dugongs,  seals,  sea  lions,  walruses,  and  other  mammals  that  have  fins  or 
flippers.  Marine  mammals  are  protected  by  a  separate  set  of  standards 
for  care  and  handling. 


14 


Animal  Performances — Any  owner  exhibiting  animals  doing  tricks  or 
shows  must  be  licensed.  This  includes  each  person  owning  animals 
performing  in  circuses,  marine  mammal  shows,  amusement  parks, 
carnivals,  independent  animal  acts,  television  shows,  movies,  or 
educational  exhibits.  All  animals  must  receive  the  same  quality  of 
housing  and  other  care,  regardless  of  whether  they  are  currently 
performing. 

Roadside  Zoos — Tourist  attractions  exhibiting  regulated  animals  must  be 
licensed  even  if  only  a  single  regulated  animal  is  on  exhibit. 

Carnivals — Concessionaires  who  exhibit  regulated  animals  must  be 
licensed  as  exhibitors.  (If  you  give  live  regulated  animals  as  prizes,  you 
must  be  licensed  as  a  dealer.)  Carnivals  cannot  be  included  in  the 
exemption  of  an  agricultural  show,  such  as  a  fair  with  a  midway. 

Promotional  Exhibits — Anyone  who  uses  regulated  animals  to  promote 
or  advertise  goods  and  services  must  be  licensed.  (If  you  give  away  or 
sell  animals  as  a  prize,  you  must  be  licensed  as  a  dealer.)  You  must  be 
licensed  even  if  you  do  promotions  with  only  a  single  animal,  such  as  a 
bear  at  a  gasoline  service  station,  a  monkey  at  a  trade  show,  or  an 
elephant  at  a  shopping  center.  You  also  must  be  licensed  if  you  use 
animals  to  promote  photographs  or  photography. 

Animal-Fighting  Ventures— Staged  dogfights,  bear  or  raccoon  baiting, 
and  similar  animal-fighting  ventures  are  prohibited  by  the  Animal  Welfare 
Act,  with  stiff  penalties  for  convicted  sponsors  and  promoters.  Cockfights 
are  permitted  only  in  the  few  States  that  have  no  law  against  them. 
Animal-fighting  ventures  cannot  be  licensed  or  registered  under  the  Act. 

Exempt  Businesses 

Private  Collections — Anyone  who  collects  animals  but  does  not  exhibit 
them  to  the  public  is  exempt.  The  exemption  does  not  apply,  however,  if 
you  sell  (for  other  than  fur)  any  animal  in  the  collection. 

Amusement  Parks — ^Amusement  parks  not  owning  animals  are  exempt. 
A  person  owning  animals  that  perform  in  an  amusement  park  must  be 
licensed  as  an  exhibitor  and  must  comply  with  USDA  requirements  for 
facilities,  conditions,  and  situations  where  animals  are  exhibited. 
Amusement  parks  exhibiting  marine  mammals  must  be  licensed,  and  their 
facilities  must  be  inspected  by  USDA. 

Farm  Animal  Exhibition — Anyone  who  arranges  and  takes  part  in 
showing  farm  animals  at  agricultural  shows,  fairs,  and  exhibits  is  exempt. 
However,  anyone  exhibiting  farm  animals  for  nonagricultural  purposes 
(such  as  petting  zoos)  must  be  licensed.  Exhibitors  of  foreign  farm 
animals  not  commonly  kept  on  American  farms,  including  camels,  must 
be  licensed. 


15 


Booking  Agents — Licensed  Acts:  Anyone  booking  or  arranging  animal 
acts  without  owning  any  animals  is  exempt.  However,  as  an  agent  you 
should  realize  that  the  exhibitors  you  book  must  comply  with  USDA 
requirements  for  facilities,  conditions,  and  situations  where  animals  are 
exhibited.  Unlicensed  Acts  (foreign):   If  foreign  circuses,  acts,  or  shows 
enter  the  United  States  to  exhibit,  their  U.S.  agent  Is  required  to  be 
licensed  and  be  responsible  for  the  show. 

Pet  Shows — Sponsors  and  participants  at  pet  shows,  such  as  dog,  cat, 
or  rabbit  shows,  are  exempt  by  law. 

Horse  Shows — Trainers,  owners,  riders,  and  sponsors  of  horse  shows- 
events  where  horses  perform  in  certain  gaits — are  not  regulated  under  the 
Animal  Welfare  Act.  APHIS  does  regulate  them,  however,  under  the 
Horse  Protection  Act,  which  forbids  the  inhumane  practice  of  making  a 
horse  sore  to  enhance  its  performance.  This  law  does  not  require 
registration  or  licensing. 

Rodeos — Competitive  events  featuring  only  farm  animals  and  horses  are 
exempt  from  both  the  Animal  Welfare  Act  and  the  Horse  Protection  Act. 
Two  examples  would  be  bull  riding  and  barrel  racing.  Circus-type  acts 
performed  at  rodeos  are  not  exempt  and  must  be  licensed  as  exhibitors. 

Animal  Preserves — Game  preserves,  hunting  preserves,  and  similar 
enterprises  that  keep  animals  in  the  wild  state  are  exempt.  However,  if 
you  maintain  special  exhibits  for  compensation  or  promotional  activities, 
you  must  be  licensed  or  registered  as  an  exhibitor.  If  you  sell  animals  to 
exhibits,  research,  or  the  pet  trade,  you  must  be  licensed  as  a  dealer. 

Hunts — Hunting  events  are  not  regulated.  Sponsors  are  not  considered 
exhibitors  if  they  keep  animals  only  for  sport — not  for  exhibition  purposes. 
Hunting  is  not  considered  animal  fighting,  even  if  dogs,  falcons,  or  other 
animals  are  used  to  help  bring  down  game. 

Shows  of  Nonregulated  Animals — Anyone  with  exhibits  limited  to 
species  of  animals  not  covered  by  law  or  regulated  is  exempt.  Typical 
examples  would  be  aviaries,  reptile  houses,  and  aquariums  not  showing 
marine  mammals. 


16 


Research  Facilities 


Institutions  using  any  regulated  live  animals  for  research,  testing, 
teaching,  or  experimentation  must  register  with  the  USDA  as  "research 
facilities."  If  the  institution  is  part  of  a  larger  organization,  the  parent 
organization  must  acquire  the  registration.  Individual  researchers  and 
their  attending  veterinarians  should  make  sure  their  institution  is  legally 
registered  and  all  USDA  regulations  and  standards  are  followed. 

Included  under  research,  testing,  teaching,  or  experimentation  are: 

•  Investigations  on  animal  propagation  and  control— such  as  wildlife 
ecology; 

•  Laboratory  tests — including  pregnancy  tests,  allergy  tests,  and  other 
diagnostic  procedures; 

•  Quality-control  studies — such  as  studies  on  the  safety,  effectiveness, 
durability,  or  other  quality  tests  of  commercial  products;  and 

•  College  instruction— whether  for  research,  or  education  for  the  im- 
provement of  medical  treatment  techniques  and  methods. 

Registration  is  required  to  ensure  that  laboratory  animals  are  provided 
with  care  and  comfort  meeting  USDA  standards.  The  law  and  regulations 
require  the  use  of  appropriate  pain-relieving  drugs  wherever  possible. 
Registered  research  facilities  and  all  agencies  of  the  Federal  Government 
using  animals  in  research  must  submit  an  annual  report  stating  how  many 
regulated  animals  were  used  and  if  any  painful  experiments  were 
conducted.  The  report  must  include  the  number  and  species  of  animals 
used  in  painful  procedures  and  an  explanation  as  to  why  it  was 
necessary  to  omit  pain  relief. 

Regulated  Institutions 

State-Owned  and  Local  Government  Facilities— Public  research 
institutions  administered  and/or  funded  by  a  State  or  local  government 
must  be  registered.  State-run  or  locally  run  institutions  do  not  have  to  be 
licensed  as  dealers  even  if  they  sell  or  trade  regulated  animals,  but  they 
must  be  licensed  as  exhibitors  if  they  exhibit  animals. 

Private  research  or  testing  institutions  must  be  registered  as  research 
facilities.  If  private  institutions  sell,  exhibit,  or  trade  regulated  animals  to 
others,  the  institutions  must  be  licensed  as  animal  dealers 
or  exhibitors. 


17 


Drug  Firms — Manufacturers  of  vaccines,  drugs,  and  other  medicines 
must  be  registered  as  research  facilities  if  they  do  research,  development, 
or  quality-control  tests  on  regulated  animals.  Institutions  must  be 
registered  under  the  Animal  Welfare  Act  even  if  they  have  USDA 
establishment  licenses  to  produce  biologies  under  the  Virus-Serum- 
Toxin  Act.  APHIS  enforces  both  acts,  and  the  same  inspector  may  check 
for  compliance  with  both  laws. 

Teaching  Institutions — Facilities  involved  in  using  animals  for  teaching 
purposes  above  the  secondary-school  level  must  be  registered  under  the 
Animal  Welfare  Act — ^for  example,  college  or  university  medical  schools, 
veterinary  schools,  biology  departments,  etc. 

Diagnostic  Laboratories — Ail  diagnostic  laboratories  using  regulated 
animals  must  be  registered. 

Marine  IVIammal  Facilities — Facilities  using  marine  mammals  for 
behavioral,  biomedical,  and  related  studies  must  be  registered.  (If  the 
facility  is  open  as  an  exhibit  to  the  public,  it  must  also  be  licensed  as  an 
exhibitor.)  The  same  standards  of  animal  care  required  for  exhibitors 
apply  to  marine  mammal  research  facilities. 

Exempt  Institutions 

Federal  Facilities — Agencies  of  the  Federal  Government  that  do 
research  are  not  required  to  register  with  USDA  and  are  not  inspected  by 
APHIS,  but  each  Federal  agency  is  responsible  for  complying  with  all 
USDA  standards  of  animal  care  and  for  submitting  an  annual  report  to 
USDA  on  the  use  of  regulated  laboratory  animals.  Federal  agencies  that 
exhibit  regulated  animals  are  not  required  to  be  licensed  but  are  inspected 
by  USDA. 

School  Laboratories — Elementary,  secondary,  and  all  other  schools 
below  the  college  level  are  by  law  exempt  from  registration. 

Agricultural  Research  Institutions — Research  institutions  that  perform 
work  involving  food,  fiber,  or  agriculture  and  that  use  horses  and  domestic 
farm  animals,  including  rabbits,  are  exempt  by  regulation  and  do  not  have 
to  be  registered.  However,  if  such  institutions  are  doing  nonagricultural 
biomedical  research,  they  do  need  to  be  registered. 

Institutions  Using  Only  Biologic  Specimens — If  only  dead  biologic 
specimens — no  live  animals — ^are  used,  an  institution  is  exempt. 
Suppliers  of  dead  specimens  made  from  regulated  animals  or  dead 
animals,  however,  have  to  be  licensed  as  dealers. 

Institutions  Using  Only  Nonregulated  Species — A  research  institution 
is  exempt  if  it  uses  only  laboratory  animals  exempted  by  law  or  regulation. 
Examples  are  birds  and  domestic  rats  and  mice.  Wild  species  of  rats  and 
mice  are  regulated. 


18 


Further  Information 

If  you  need  more  information  about  the  Animal  Welfare  Act  or  your 
responsibilities  in  animal  care  under  this  legislation,  please  contact  the 
Animal  Care  Regional  Office  for  your  State. 


Animal  Care  Regional  Offices 
Eastern  Region 

Alabama,  Connecticut,  Delaware,  District  of  Columbia,  Florida,  Georgia, 
Illinois,  Indiana,  Kentucky,  Maine,  Maryland,  Massachusetts,  Michigan, 
Minnesota,  Mississippi,  New  Hampshire,  New  Jersey,  New  York,  North 
Carolina,  Ohio,  Pennsylvania,  Puerto  Rico,  Rhode  Island,  South  Carolina, 
Tennessee,  Vermont,  Virginia,  West  Virginia,  Wisconsin 

USDA,  APHIS,  AC 
Regional  Director 
2568-A  Riva  Road,  Suite  302 
Annapolis,  MD  21401-7400 
Telephone:  (410)  571-8692 
Fax:  (410)  224-2854 

Central  Region 

Arkansas,  Iowa,  Kansas,  Louisiana,  Missouri,  Nebraska,  North  Dakota, 
Oklahoma,  South  Dakota,  Texas 

USDA,  APHIS,  AC 

Regional  Director 

501  Felix  Street,  BIdg.  #11 

P.O.  Box  6258 

Fort  Worth,  TX  761 1 5-6258 

Telephone:  (817)  885-6923 

Fax:  (817)  885-6917 

Western  Region 

Alaska,  Arizona,  California,  Colorado,  Hawaii,  Idaho,  Montana,  Nevada, 
New  Mexico,  Oregon,  Utah,  Washington,  Wyoming 

USDA,  APHIS,  AC 
Regional  Director 
9580  Micron  Avenue,  Suite  J 
Sacramento,  CA  95827-2623 
Telephone:  (916)857-6205 
Fax:  (916)  857-6212 


19 


t 


