Historic, Archive Document 


Do not assume content reflects current 
scientific knowledge, policies, or practices. 


Co a 


oe 


i SAW DISPLAY 


S274 


Northeast Region 
1993 SARE\ACE 
Report to Congress 


Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education 
and . 
Agriculture in Concert with the Environment 


June 29, 1993 


United States 
Department of 
Agriculture 


NATIONAL 
AGRICULTURAL 
LIBRARY 


Advancing Access to 
Global Information for 
Agriculture 


Northeast Region Program Coordinator: 


Frederick R. Magdoff 
Dept. of Plant and Soil Science 
University of Vermont 


Regional Communications Specialist: 


Beth Holtzman 
Dept. of Plant and Soil Science 
University of Vermont 


Regional Program Manager: 


Wendy Sue Harper ” 
Dept. of Plant and Soil Science 
University of Vermont 


Associate Director of SARE and ACE: 


J. Patrick Madden 
University of California 
1207 Campbell St. 


Glendale, CA 91207 U.S. Department of Agricutture 
National Agricultural Library 


JUN 19 2015 


_._ Received 
Acquisitions and Metada 


ACE Program Director: 
Harry W. Wells ta Branch 
Environmental Protection Specialist 
Pollution Prevention Office 
USEPA MC 7409 
401 M St. SW 
Washington, D.C. 20460 


The Northeast Region includes 


Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, 
New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and West Virginia. 


Pe 
r | ’ te } 
t 
"al 4 3 
ia “al 
. | - 
couftwah DA 10 thang g9 au 
gresce dtr walkusiA isn gute ae 
igs @ 1 WUL o 
» pawioaga a . 
WaiiEtG HIB BISM AK anoitiiupyA la 
& 
” ‘ “3 
‘ Uy 
. . 
. A 
: > + +4 
p ¢ & 
: Th @ ; on 
‘ ~ * ki o a% hace 
* 4 : . i 
» . : } 
rf a rs ‘ m iu é H 4 ¥ r , 
ee fe eee 
a 4. ¢, b 1% 
| pt ee Aaa ae 
i a ; bs 
“ah | ft i 
. ai ’ é 
j oe im 
q un 


SARE/ACE 1993 Northeast Report to Congress 
Executive Summary 


Selected Highlights of Northeast Region Projects 
Overview SARE Projects are helping farmers reduce chemical 
Soil Test Benefits Farmers and the Environment 


By adapting a new soil test nitrogen, farmers can reduce nitrogen fertilizer rates by an average 
of 50 pounds per acre while still maintaining crop yields. If all growers in the Mid-Atlantic 
area used the test and got these results, they would save $41 million per year and reduce 
environmental risk by applying 137 million pounds less nitrogen fertilizer. 

(ACE Project number ANEY91-4) 


Farmers Helping Farmers 


More than 60 farmers and agricultural professionals from eight Northeast states are 
collaborating on strategies to overcome the barriers to sustainable production and marketing 
systems. As a result, participating growers are trying new techniques, and will share what they 
learned with other producers next fall. 

(SARE Project number LNE91-28) 


Crop Rotations Help Control Tree Fruit Pests 


A SARE-supported project at The Pennsylvania State University is the first to identify 
effective rotation crops for controlling dagger nematodes and soil-borne diseases that affect 
the tree fruit industry. It showed that alternative rotations may provide environmentally sound 
and economical tactics for combating replant problems that are now primarily controlled 
through soil fumigation. (SARE Project number LNE90-22) 


More results from these and other projects are summarized in PART II of this report. 
Farmer-Initiated Grants Demonstrate Innovations 


Thirty-six small grants, ranging in size from $360 to $6,250, were awarded to farmers for 
implementation of innovative practices on their farms. See the Appendix to PART I, 
Attachment D for a description of all 36 grants, including the following examples: 


"Subterranean Clover as an Organic Mulch for Pumpkin Production," Robert K. Clark of 
Woodstown, NJ. Funding: $1,576. Clark will test the use of subterranean clover as a mulch 
crop for co-cultivation with pumpkins. Clark’s project, aimed a reducing erosion and synthetic 
fertilizer and herbicide use, will examine the effect of clover on weed pressure, soil nitrogen, 
erosion and pumpkin yields. 

(Project number FNE93-13) 


"Utilizing Municipal Leaf Compost in Apple and Peach Production," Steve Iuliucci of 
Braddock, NJ. Funding: $2,403. Iuliucci will test the use of municipal leaf compost in apple 
and peach production. Iuliucci’s goals are to reduce fertilizer and pesticide use, to improve 
soil health and fertility, to reduce tree disease, and improve the economic viability of the 
orchard. (Project number FNE93-17) 


Regional Program Activities 
Mission of the Regional SARE/ACE Program 


The Administrative Council drafted its first mission statement and strategic plan, which 
together form a blueprint for the region’s efforts in the next several years. These two 
documents outline a broad vision for sustainable food and fiber production in the Northeast. 
Their goal is to build and maintain a healthy, stable agricultural base for the region. 


Outreach Efforts Multiply 


The Administrative Council requires that all projects contain an integrated, well-planned 
outreach program to get results to farmers, Extension personnel, other farm consultants and 
other audiences. Project participants are using field days, workshops, conferences, 
newsletters, handbooks and videos to disseminate information, reaching audiences in the 
thousands. 


The region also played a leadership role in coordinating the first Sustainable Agriculture 
Network handbook, Managing Cover Crops Profitably, which was released in March. This 
114 page book, based in part on SARE-supported research, provides practical information on 
using cover crops to protect the environment and farm more profitably. 


In April 1992, a Communications Specialist (Beth Holtzman) was added to the regional 
program staff to help disseminate information to the farm community and general public on a 
regional and national basis. Holtzman created the Regional newsletter, Jnnovations, which 
contains easy-to-read, farmer-oriented articles about sustainable agriculture. The newsletter, 
along with direct media contacts have doubled the Region’s mailing list, with most of the new 
interest coming from producers. 


Selection of SARE and ACE Projects for Funding in FY 1992 


The Administrative Council identified the following areas as priorities for funding: natural 
systems, animal systems, ornamental horticulture and turf, vegetable production and planning 
grants for marketing projects. The Regional Coordinator received 52 proposals; After review 
by Technical Committee, the Administrative Council recommended funding for eight SARE 
proposals (including four continuing projects) and eight ACE proposals. (See PART II of this 
Regional report for a list of SARE and ACE projects funded. 


Table of Contents 


ESTE, AOE AAT Le ee ee re gee rer ee ee ne q) 
Nission ote Nornheast.Procraims gie.eansity.ewem. seit: watalie brood Gu one ents 7 
Rannershipewith the Environmental -ProtectionsA gency thieqeriyy fertile sd sek wes «3 8 
PoeOUONismOles a Rieanded Gh rolect Results. mrccrs s savie 4.45 eackh let aes winless sla) aos 9 
soil! est: Benefits: Harmers.andithe Environments .c0 B:c0.4 extras art ite S) 
Maine Project Gives New Meaning to "Meat ’n’ Potatoes" ................. 2) 
Cave Gropserrotect: Groundwaterea andsProfitsansieec so. se oe ee al 10 
Creensawnsaw 1UOUtE CULT eemMene: he ne Pert igt eee Se ee 10 
MG WELD Duell alec essere Gran Detries mung etalon eu eee eA Cetra. ete yagcs 11 
Cropsotations belpp@ontrols Dagger Nematodes. 24... 4 45 ne ee vs snes 1] 
SS LIStaLUG DICE IN LITSCT1 CS murmen am Memmi: ure Pei tf GS Aha cea! Sie gs Roques fs 2 
reedingePlantssforAltermativer Systems», amen pecs A perset odd). 2 GRE ppt fo adhe 12 
SustaitiablesAoricultures-) bhe¢Movieare patacen fer. th cre net ects |e wanes. one Gn. 12 
Farmers Help -Bach-Other Kind Sustainable Solutionsssjeuhs:s ic cho. Wags iens. -/ 13 
MortheastnecionalsProcrani Activities: 40% <estsn af the choise aired. The AA 13 
Romi TR Mind MICO MIOWEETOCESS warming ro. ceke Nae, Ook ae/ se yhcrs Sico cc en, otk o8s- 2 SAP ah fas 13 
i DesmCLErOjCCtSMeUTTeMt Va CLLy Cmm meee ten et Ge Greig te) Shays eco rs ee A 14 
hatmerssAre. Meaninofullyinvolvedie dhyesGed arm wun ori Sates co gery LS 
Parmer Grower Grantssbrogramalnitiated) Gast of tre Paeticast dae scesemee « 15 
CmidertosProfitablen Ise.of. Coven Crops Published.» -sct vecytctirue- Generics: te Sa 16 
Guireachsto bxtensionsA Cents wanet phn hari hewces veelrer. vertuay gad sist hese) keen. 16 
PradOnestrirctac UALILVOLMALICRVWOLKSNOD mew eRe f. casa hehe, Gruen cde a 2 ah ous es ake 16 
WOnIMUNICAUONSASDeCialisteADpOINtedante 66s cs ce ee ose ee we ss a 16 
Administrative Council Adopts Action Plan ........... okey eee rte 17 
APPEND G aL Osb A Rilelsinae Ghat prevent atedion Gerseevewet laxtlths eack ater ae wate 21 
Pee ARE ROI TS shUNDE Da 960) 1 ORL 995 feted oe cosa se cong wg ms weg 43 
eee GESPROJEG Dorr UNDED 9916131993 wee oe he. eh eed ete) eae ee 167 
PART IV. FARMER/GROWER INITIATED GRANTS FUNDED IN 1993 ....... 205 
os UIE Galea TE eames ipeuawe, valine am acy eee) writer dems « Gti ia «ls ele ant te 215 


’ "Sant ti ‘ 


on) 7, OMS are fo Ace ferulieer and pesticide wee, te oe 


+ 4 ver hd. bie : anes : ? = jueel TD f 
- as ; I MY or Veo, ‘Ra! ag oD ans an) 


Te f du mets, ow Eb Arw beret? alien! 7 


Osi aed the Silimine stb ae prioste 


wn ale 6 LGR Gd h PH AOE GBT AW 
| tei é 


a tis, of SAR bes cr : 


of) a Acrvum 2 ij € on las cor ‘on v4 Sceve Ju bie 7 ‘ 
) luberiagD eiietise of manicinal brief compere fy. 


5 Sr Wisc, Wid ih 7 Ve Ihe . once: ms nility rs } 
teste contest NM 


tceoeves DEY ast sb ‘ 


onsi tr i] - 7. 
masa jokmetert Daletai arcirast alt Atle ahi 
ole 

liiea® 1ejc4 TIA bee S42 Yo oetgile 
ie Ain oh base oGre Ree vai, heel 


pate 8o'j Sa’ sa hes gulre dh wtehies ot paid | : 
‘nian. 3.340. . oy } y iki mez , te) ae 
ern Yr) 194 sleeve] wold 

Suipat 9 qb iaetisiodl got 


noenlA sideciterey? 


i} 2 oe. ex tees Pec fs <0 ig righ Aldemesy 
4 * . A velehartinte) 9 * » 
Ci pene wal 4. 3) ie Orch eather] 


lg ern inhoTmin Toe le Meenas th 

estiviok. metgort liaoigah h cm 

, je 5 Bt — KH lao Aft 

ervyrdivwarinss ty  Surtomiobie ‘panel: 

; Leer, Cease Srofbsvloveris roms siikok CLA ising 

SARE suppdenal) pk cestigcr catater! oeeo eee 

irciniitatl eqdrB-ravo dito pal fivehdntRoaT of ghiel>.- 

: , aA comostxd oF dosed 

eel ala Cea chat Tout ean) tame? waite 

me 100% eo rbsinity: . teita; ~otoameeael « 
ita vad’ imal Gab tex “De sore: megan 2 

Cocotte’ wicks about sumnineable agvioulhive, haw en 


ave doubled. che. Bs a9 é cantly ett AMOR MG nes 4 


. a 
++ TRCE OT B8Rt CAVA ZT OAG AAR mn tA 
.rolects for Firing in PY O07 - : 


~ ay ERE OT 100T Gacy 


o. 


The Replonal Comiiaaior recat ac £2 necpeastsss yn | 
amin w@ative Gapneli.trseaaves | Nl. deh We; m 
ual proieets}- and coh ACY Crit caage. ; 
“ 


PART I. OVERVIEW 


Now in its sixth year, the Northeast Region SARE/ACE program, under the direction of the 
regional Administrative Council, has taken several innovative steps to promote the goals of 
sustainable agriculture, as set forth in the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990. 
Several projects have now reached the results stage. Project results are being disseminated to 
farmers in ways that encourage adaptation to site-specific conditions, and adoption in ways that 
will protect the environment, the financial security of the farm families, and the quality of life 
in rural communities. 


Part 1 of this report is an of overview of the Northeast Region’s program and its major 
accomplishments. Parts 2 and 3 contain more comprehensive descriptions and results of all the 
projects funded by the SARE and ACE programs, respectively. 


Mission of the Northeast Program 


The Administrative Council held a strategic planning retreat August 8-10, 1992 in Grafton, Vt., 
to define the Regional SARE and ACE program mission for the next several years, and to begin 
planning special regional initiatives to advance sustainable agriculture in the Northeast. During 
the retreat, the Council drafted the region’s first Mission Statement and an Action Plan. These 
documents were adopted at the March 1993 meeting of the Administrative Council. The Mission 
Statement is as follows: 


"Our mission is to help develop and maintain diversified, agricultural and forestry systems that 

enhance the economic, environmental and social health of the Northeast for present and future 

generations. Our work will support production, processing and marketing systems that sustain 

rural communities and connect them with the Northeast region urban and suburban areas. 

Sustainable agriculture and forestry systems will: 

. promote good stewardship of the land by utilizing production techniques and land 
management practices that prevent erosion, improve soil health and minimize water and 
air pollution; 


° promote nutrient recycling through profitable use of agricultural by-products and wastes; 


° rely on -- and encourage -- greater diversity among farms, and on individual farms, as 
well as more management-intensive practices that are safe and environmentally sound; 


° profitably employ more people in agricultural enterprises, both in full- and part-time 
capacities; 


° offer a viable family living -- economically and socially -- from farming; and 


° contribute to the quality of life in rural communities and for society as a whole. 
Our efforts in this area will be to 
° promote ongoing, well-funded research and education programs that advance and 


disseminate the practical and scientific information needed by producers, marketers, 
processors and planners; 


° foster greater cooperation among farmers, and new and strengthened partnerships 
between farmers, consumers environmentalists, scientists, educators, government and 
agribusiness; 

° encourage the creation of an infrastructure for food processing and distribution that 


focuses on regional markets, strategically uses national and global markets, and 
enables producers to receive economic benefits from ''value-added" products; 


° support public policies and programs that are conducive to sustainable agriculture, 
and which are based on better public understanding of the region’s agricultural 
base, farming and farm products. 


Partnership with the Environmental Protection Agency 


The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) believes that prevention is the first 
priority within an environmental management hierarchy that includes prevention, recycling, 
treatment and disposal. In agriculture, EPA and USDA prevention efforts concentrate on issues 
such as: 


¢ Reduction of the misuse of agricultural chemicals including pesticides and fertilizers. and 
animal waste, 


e Adoption of reduced risk pesticides and/or biological controls, and 
¢ Protection of ecologically sensitive areas. 


These interests are compatible with USDA goals including those of the SARE program, the Soil © 
Conservation Service, Extension Service and others. EPA is pleased to work in partnership with 
USDA on ACE and other activities to further the mutual goals of sustainable agroecosystems. 
EPA believes that the $3 million dollars contributed to the ACE program to date has been a solid 
investment of funds, and demonstrates the commitment of the EPA - USDA partnership to 
prevent pollution from agricultural sources. 


Highlights of SARE and ACE Project Results 


Results of eleven Northeast region SARE and ACE projects are described briefly. Greater detail 
about these and many other projects is provided in PARTS II and III of this report, where all the 
Northeast SARE (formerly LISA) and ACE projects are described. These descriptions include 
information from the annual progress reports received in 1992. 


Soil Test Benefits Farmers and the Environment 


By adapting a new soil nitrogen test to New Jersey conditions, a team from Rutgers University 
Cooperative Extension is helping dairy farmers cut the amount of nitrogen fertilizer they use to 
grow field corn. Results thus far show that farmers can reduce nitrogen fertilizer rates by an 
average of 50 pounds per acre while still maintaining crop yields. That reduction translates to 
benefits for both farmers and the environment. The four New Jersey farmers participating in this 
project saved about $53,000 in fertilizer costs per year on their 3,450 acres of corn. They 
reduced the risk of groundwater pollution by applying an estimated 177,000 pounds less nitrogen 
fertilizer than they would have applied without the test. If this test is used on all the corn grown 
in New Jersey and two adjacent states (New York and Pennsylvania), and if all growers got these 
results, they would save $41 million per year and reduce environmental risk by applying 137 
million pounds less nitrogen fertilizer. 

(ACE project number ANE91-4, "Extension of the Pre-Sidedress Soil Nitrate Test 

for New Jersey Field and Sweet Corn.")! 


Maine Project Gives New Meaning to "Meat ’n’ Potatoes" 


Maine’s beef industry doubled since 1988 and the state’s potato farmers have new, more 
profitable markets for their by-products and rotation crops thanks in part to a SARE-supported 
project that funded low-cost ways to integrate potato and beef production systems. Through an 
aggressive outreach program, participants encouraged cattle feeder operations and helped farmers 
implement low-cost production systems. Participants also worked to establish an effective cattle 
feeder marketing program that helped raise the farmgate price of Maine beef. At the same time, 
project participants worked with potato producers to switch from oat rotations to barley, which 
is a more desirable grain for cattle production. 


The result: A more diverse and sustainable agricultural system. Maine’s strengthened cattle 
industry has already and will continue to place a demand for local rotation crops and local potato 


1 In assigning identification numbers to projects, the leading letter "A" denotes an ACE 
project, "L" means it is a SARE (formerly LISA) project; NE refers to the Northeast 
Region; the year the project was first funded is given before the hyphen; following the 
hyphen is a sequence number for the specific project. 


g 


by-products. "The bottom line was we wanted to put cattle into the system to ... encourage 
rotation by making rotation crops more profitable," says Project Coordinator R. W. Hough. 
"Rotations break up disease cycles, help reduce the need for pesticides and increase the quality 
of the potato crop." 
(SARE project LNE90-23, "The Integration of Crop (Potato) and Livestock 
Production Systems.) 


Cover Crops Protect Groundwater -- and Profits 


If Maryland farmers used winter cover crops into their corn production systems the way 
University of Maryland Professor Morris Decker suggests, they could farm more economically 
with less chance of erosion and groundwater pollution. Decker was project coordinator of two 
projects that tested the use of winter cover crops on several commercial farms. The results 
showed that cereal rye/legume mixtures reduced erosion and leaching while providing much of 
the nitrogen needed for maximum corn production. Researchers found that the composition of a 
fall-seeded legume/grass mixture will adjust to residual soil levels. When residual soil nitrogen 
is high, the grasses will dominate. When the residual nitrogen is low, the nitrogen-fixing legume 
will dominate. "This provides the producer with an excellent nitrogen management tool," Decker 
wrote. "If findings of this study are widely adapted, it would be possible for producers to reduce 
fertilizer nitrogen costs with little or no reduction in grain production levels," he said. 
(SARE project LNE89-13, Winter Cover Crops for Corn Production in the 
Northeast; and ACE project ANE91-3, "Use of the Pasture Disk Meter to Promote 
Wider Use of Conservation Winter Covers by Providing a Rapid Method of 
Accurately Measuring Winter Legume Nitrogen.") 


Green Lawns Without Guilt 


Every year, Americans spend millions of dollars on synthetic chemical pesticides and fertilizers 
in the quest of lush, green lawns. Now, researchers and commercial turf growers are producing 
low-maintenance sods that can save homeowners cash and reduce their exposure to lawn 
chemicals. Grass mixtures containing high amounts of tall fescue can reduce the need for 
irrigation, pesticides and fertilizer, researchers say. Additionally, the mixtures under evaluation 
seemed to offer at least as much resistance to wear-and-tear as other grasses used for lawns and 
recreation fields in the Northeast. 


A key element in the sustainable grass mixtures the researchers have studied are endophytes -- 
insect-suppressing fungi that live within the grass plants. The endophytes help plants resist 
insects in two ways. First, the fungi produce substances that deter insects, prohibit them from 
feeding or even kill them outright. Secondly, the plant responds to the endophyte as if it were 
fighting an infection, producing other chemicals which also ward off insects. . 

(SARE project LNE90-24, "Sustainable Sod Production for the Northeast.") 


Low Input Strategies For Cranberries 


Cranberry farmers in Massachusetts and New Jersey apply some 530 tons of pesticides and 1,900 
tons of fertilizers every year. That comes out to more than 320 pounds of agricultural chemicals 
per acre. A new ACE project is helping cut that figure in half by giving farmers effective new 
methods for controlling pests and building fertile soil. "Over the three years of our demonstration 
program, synthetic insecticide applications were reduced 60 percent and fungicide applications 
were reduced by 28 percent in comparison to previous years," the team said in its latest progress 
report. Researchers have found that a practice called late water, in which bogs are reflooded late 
in the spring once every three years, can be used to significantly reduce pesticide use. Research 
has shown that when done properly, the practice suppresses rot inoculum, cranberry fruitworm, 
Southern red mites and perennial weeds. Late water also seems to renew the vine stands and 
reduce fertilizer requirement, researchers say. 

(ACE project ANE91-2, "Implementing and Extending Low-Input Cranberry 

Production".) 


Crop Rotations Help Control Dagger Nematodes 


A SARE-supported project at The Pennsylvania State University is the first to identify effective 
rotation crops for controlling dagger nematodes and soil-borne diseases that affect the tree fruit 
industry. It showed that alternative rotations may provide environmentally sound and economical 
tactics for combating replant problems that are now primarily controlled through soil fumigation. 


Dagger nematodes are a common, soil-borne pest. They carry a virus that causes lethal diseases 
in peach, nectarine and certain apple varieties. The research showed that two rotation crops, 
marigold and canola, effectively suppressed dagger nematodes. Canola, a brassica species, was 
easier to establish and more successfully competed with weeds. No rotation was as effective at 
controlling dagger nematodes as soil fumigation, although brassicas and marigolds were as 
effective after two years as post-plant nematicides in most experiments, researchers found. 
Several other rotation crops, such as wheat, oats and fescue gave inconsistent results. However, 
sunflower, sudan grass and alfalfa proved to be good hosts for dagger nematodes, thereby 
increasing the population of these pests. 


Additional research is needed to evaluate differences in nematode control between various 
cultivars, to continue the search for nematode-suppressive crops, and to develop rotation programs 
that suppress harmful nematodes and improve soil structure and fertility. Fruit growers have 
expressed great interest in this work and researchers anticipate. that an effective crop rotation 
program for dagger nematode control would be readily accepted. 
(LNE90-22, "Novel Rotation Crops as Alternatives to Fumigant Nematicide 
Treatment in Deciduous Tree Fruit Production.") 


1] 


Sustainable Nurseries 


Nursery operators will adopt sustainable techniques, so long as the practices are commercially 
viable, according to the results of a recent survey conducted through one of the Northeast 
Region’s ACE projects. Results showed that vegetable/fruit crop production nurseries and 
landscape nurseries in the Northeast have made significant moves toward adopting sustainable 
practices in the last five years. Fifty-four percent of the responding nurseries had reduced 
fertilizer input, 69 percent have reduced pesticide use, and 71 percent use some form of solid 
waste recycling. 


The goals of the one-year ACE project were to document nursery production practices in the 
Northeast and to establish a newsletter to encourage nursery operators to adopt more sustainable 
practices. The monthly newsletter, Hort Impact, was first published in January of 1992. It has 
been sent to more than 1,000 growers in the Northeast. Although the project concluded in 
December, 1992, the University of Connecticut Cooperative Extension will continue to publish 
Hort Impact on a subscription basis, at least for 1993. 


The survey was distributed in the August 1992 issue of the newsletter, with follow-up work done 
in October. Forty-eight nursery operators participated. 
(ACE project ANE91-7, "Use of Composts and Reduced Application for Fertilizer 
and Herbicides to Conserve Soil and Groundwater Resources in Nurseries.") 


Breeding Plants for Alternative Systems 


Selection criteria for breeding a corn variety for a conventional production system may be 
inappropriate in selecting cultivars for an alternative system. That’s according to a team of 
Cornell researchers who tried to identify corn varieties that are well-adapted to specific 
sustainable agriculture practices. Preliminary findings suggest that some specific traits important 
to productivity of corn in low-input, sustainable systems include good stand establishment, 
appropriate leaf angle, dark green color under stress and synchronization of pollen shed and silk 
emergence under stress. These traits, however, have received little study and have not generally 
been part of plant breeders’ selection criteria, said Project Coordinator Margaret Smith. Plant 
breeding research keyed to sustainable farming systems is needed to "level the playing field." 
(ACE project ANE91-1, "Improving Crop Adaptation to Alternative Systems.") 


Sustainable Agriculture -- The Movie 


Six videos were produced with help from a Northeast Region SARE project and released in 1992. 
These videos portray progress made by farmers in the Northeast toward sustainable agriculture. 
Designed as an introduction to sustainable agriculture, the videos document the methods farmers 
have developed to reduce or eliminate the use of purchased inputs on their farms. A key goal 


12 


of the project, spearheaded by the Rodale Institute, of Emmaus, PA, was to offer reliable 
information about making a transition to a lower-input farming system. 


The videos address separately the needs of two kinds of farmers: large scale field crop or 
livestock farmers, and high-value, vegetable and ornamental growers. The series was produced 
by Rooy Media, of Frederick, MD, with the help of nearly 200 farmers and other experts. It was 
filmed in 12 states in the Northeast region of the U.S. The six videos are: "Field Crops," 
"Rotational Grazing," "Vegetables," "IPM for Vegetables & Small Fruits," "IPM For Apples," and 
"High-Value Marketing." Each runs for approximately 30 minutes. Accompanying the series is 
a "Resource and Viewing Guide" that provides basic background on the subject matter of each 
individual video. 

(LNE88-11, "Taking Charge: Strategies for Sustainable Agriculture in the 

Northeast.") 


Farmers Help Each Other Find Sustainable Solutions 


An eight-state educational project is helping farmers overcome barriers to organic or sustainable 
production. The Northeast Farmer-to-Farmer Information Exchange Project has brought more 
than 60 farmers and agricultural professionals together to share strategies and experience in five 
commodity groups - apples, strawberries, sweet corn, greenhouse bedding plants and livestock. 
Although the project is in its early stages, participants say the network is already helping farmers. 
All of the growers left the winter meetings with several new techniques they intend to try on their 
farms. Growers reported on the 1992 trials at meetings last winter, and are testing additional 
ideas through the 1993 growing season. In 1994, participants will be surveyed to find out what 
techniques they plan to continue using. 
(LNE91-28, "The Northeast Farmer-to-Farmer Information Exchange.") 


Northeast Regional Program Activities 


The Proposal Review Process 


The overall process of project selection began in October when the Northeast Region 
Administrative Council articulated the Call for Proposals, indicating the types of project they 
considered most important to the attainment of the goals of sustainable agriculture in the 
Northeast Region that year. The 1992 call for proposals identified the following areas as 
priorities for funding: 


-- natural systems (as defined in SARE national guidelines); 
-- animal systems (including waste management); 

-- ornamental horticulture and turf 

-- vegetable production; 


113) 


-- planning grants for marketing projects to evaluate the possibility of new crop or animal 
enterprises. 


All projects were also required to have a functionally integrated, creative, and well developed 
extension/education program. To encourage farmers to evaluate new approaches, enterprise 
budgets and/or whole farm budgets were also requested from projects that involved 
demonstrations, farm case studies, or integrated systems studies. 


A total of 52 proposals were received, in the following subject matter areas: 


apple production 


small fruit production decision-making in sustainable systems 
vegetable production cover crops 

cash crop production greenhouse pests 

horticultural plants integrating poultry, beef and kenaf 
composting 


The proposals were first reviewed by the 17-member Technical Committee, which met March 
15-17, 1992 in Burlington, Vt. The 18-member Administrative Council met in Burlington, Vt., 
March 17-18, 1992 to decide grant awards to be recommended to the Secretary of Agriculture. 
(The members of these two groups are listed in Attachment A, in the APPENDIX to PART I.) 
A total of 16 projects were funded, including four renewals of continuing SARE projects, four 
new SARE projects, and eight new ACE projects. (A list of SARE and ACE projects funded in 
1992 appears in Attachment B. The amounts of funds granted to organizations in various states 
are given in Attachment C.) 

Types of Projects Currently Active 


Of 17 currently active or recently completed SARE projects funded since 1988 for which project 
profile data are available: 


e 12 projects include experimental components; 

e 7 are for "educating the educators" (such as Extension); 
¢ 10 contain exploratory components; 

° 8 include whole-farm analysis; 

e 6 feature whole-farm or ranch demonstration sites; 


* 9 will provide accounting budget data on costs and returns for rotations and enterprises; 
3 of these will provide data compatible with the Planetor System. 


14 


e 


14 Extension staff are project coordinators; a total of 31 Extension staff are major 
participants, and another 35 are cooperators in SARE projects. 


Farmers Are Meaningfully Involved 


One of the most significant accomplishments of the Northeast Region’s SARE and ACE programs 
is the high level of farmer involvement. Farmers play major roles in administering and operating 
the program, in cooperation with scientists, educators, and agency personnel. For example, 


4 farmers serve on the Northeast Region’s Administrative Council, which sets the regional 
program’s priorities and determines the level of funding to be grantied to approved 
projects; 


another 4 farmers serve on the Technical Committee, which recommends projects worthy 
of funding; 


124 farmers have helped generate ideas for project proposals; 


293 farmers are "major participants" in funded projects; 


139 farmers have made presentations at workshops; 
land is provided for studies of sustainable farming practices and systems: 
-- 33 farmers provide land for replicated studies; 


-- 135 provide land for unreplicated studies: 
-- 55 provide land for demonstration plots: 


48 farmers help manage projects, and 100 help evaluate the projects. 


Farmer/Grower Grants Program Initiated 


At the August meeting, the Administrative Council set aside $100,000 of 1993 funds for a new 
grants program designed to encourage producers to develop and adopt more sustainable 
production methods. The program received excellent media attention and 169 farmers applied 
for grants. With the recommendations of the Technical Committee, the Administrative Council 
funded 36 of these proposals (PART IV). 


15 


Site Reviews Conducted on Selected Projects 


Four projects were reviewed by special review teams in 1992. Additionally, the Administrative 
Council informally visited two projects (LNE88-01 and LNE88-02) in August 1992. (See 
Attachment D for a list of projects reviewed in 1992 and their review teams.) 


Guide to Profitable Use of Cover Crops Published 


Managing Cover Crops Profitably, a 114-page handbook, was published by the Sustainable 
Agriculture Network (SAN) in 1992. This handbook was the result of a special project initiated 
in 1991 by the Northeast Region. Regional Coordinator Fred Magdoff played a key role in the 
publication, working with Mike Brusko of Rodale Institute, who is currently designated as the 
SAN Publisher. As of February 28, 1993, 750 copies of the book have been distributed. 


Outreach to Extension Agents 


The Northeast Region’s SARE and ACE programs offered low-cost materials about sustainable 
agriculture to Extension Agents throughout the Northeast Region. This initiative was designed 
to help Extension staff build and update their information base on sustainable agriculture. 


Nation’s First Quality of Life Workshop 


The Northeast Region’s Administrative Council committed resources to a workshop on quality 
of life issues. This workshop, the first of its kind nationally, was held in Newark, NJ, on January 
28-29, 1993. The purpose was to orient the Region’s Administrative Council and Technical 
Committee to the meaning of quality of life and how this concept could be meaningfully 
incorporated into the SARE and ACE programs. 


Communications Specialist Appointed 


Beth Holtzman was hired as Communication Specialist for the Northeast Region SARE and ACE 
programs April 20, 1992. Holtzman has initiated a wide array of activities to inform the public 
about the information available through the SARE and ACE programs, and to promote sustainable 
agriculture in the Region. These activities include: 


* producing the Innovations newsletter (3 issues to date); 

* active participation in the national Sustainable Agriculture Network; 
* compiling a library of photographic slides; 

* assisting the SARE associate director with various reports; and 

* producing press releases, articles and displays. 


16 


Administrative Council Adopts Action Plan 


The following statement outlines actions recommended by the Northeast SARE/ACE 
Administrative Council in August 1992 to achieve its goals for sustainable agricultural and 
forestry systems in the Northeast. The Council’s strategy is threefold: allocating resources to its 
priorities, forming partnerships with other groups, and informing the public and policy-makers 
about the benefits of and challenges to a more sustainable agriculture. 


The order in which the actions are presented does not indicate priority. Rather, we see many of 
our recommendations as interdependent. 


1. Through the competitive grant process, encourage researchers, farmers and agricultural and 
environmental groups to fill specific research and education needs, determined by the 
administrative council. These priorities include the following initiatives: 


Interdisciplinary, whole-farm studies that analyze the economics of environmentally 
sustainable production techniques and systems. Such projects should encourage the use 
of appropriate decision-support systems for analyzing the financial and environmental 
performance of adopting sustainable farming systems. 


Studies of the quality of life issues farmers face, particularly as they shift to more 


sustainable practices. Staff and the administrative council will obtain guidance from 
experts in rural sociology when developing the call for such a project and when 
evaluating proposals. 


Projects in which farmers learn from each other about sustainable practices, and 
projects which help provide incentives for producers to adopt innovative sustainable 
practices. 


Agro-ecosystem studies of soil, water, air, plants and animals, as well as proposals 
that address fish and wildlife habitat and farm woodlands management. 


The collection of baseline data on the status of agriculture in the Northeast. The 
Administrative Council, staff and others will use that information to identify 
opportunities for and obstacles to sustainable agriculture. 


Conferences, bus tours and other events that educate the farm community, consumers 
and policy-makers about issues, obstacles and successes in moving toward a more 
sustainable agriculture. 


2. Devote staff time to publicizing priorities for research projects so that the Northeast Region 
SARE and ACE programs solicit proposals that address the administrative priorities. As the 
administrative council identifies its priorities for future years, staff will publicize them. 


17 


¢ Staff and the administrative council will develop procedures to insure farmers and 
growers have a meaningful role in shaping the region’s priorities for sustainable 
agriculture research. 


¢ Staff will make sure that groups and individuals with expertise in natural resources 
and wildlife issues receive calls for proposal. 


3. Promote effective organizing around sustainable agriculture issues by sponsoring leadership 
training for grass roots organizations. This will be done through a special initiative or 
competitive grants. 


4. Form partnerships with other government agencies, as well as regional grass roots, farm and 
consumer groups that have common interests with SARE and ACE. 


¢ Devote staff time to working with national program staff and private organizations to 
identify other government agencies that are working on issues that pertain to 
sustainable agriculture (such as pollution, water quality, economic viability, rural 
development, food safety, human nutrition) and find ways to expand the funding base 
for common goals. (The ACE program is a national example.) 


¢ Devote staff and administrative council time to coordinating Northeast Region SARE 
and ACE initiatives with initiatives at the national level. 


¢ Devote staff time to building alliances and exchanging information with other groups, 
including: state agriculture departments; environmental, consumer and farm-based 
organizations; private industry; and other scientific, research and education 
organizations. 


¢ Devote staff and administrative council time to forming an advisory sub-committee 
to the NE SARE/ACE administrative council to insure meaningful contact and 
exchange with those groups. 


e Through a special Northeast Region initiative, collaborate with state agriculture 
departments and Congressional delegations in promoting sustainable agriculture. 


5. Disseminate information about sustainable agriculture. 


¢ Through staff efforts, the competitive grant process and special initiatives, work to 
inform policy-makers at the local, state, regional and national levels about issues 
surrounding sustainable food and fiber systems and the options for increasing the 
stability and sustainability of the region’s food and fiber systems. Help farmers 
communicate directly with policy-makers. 


18 


¢ Through publications and news releases produced by staff, work to heighten consumer 
awareness about the economic hardships facing small farms; food safety issues; how 
the choices consumers make at the grocery store affect farmers; the ways agricultural 
practices affect the environment; and the impact of agricultural and trade policy on 
the nation’s food system. 


¢ Through similar means, work to help farmers understand and address consumer 
concerns about food safety, food costs and the environment. 


¢ Sponsor or co-sponsor conferences, bus tours, workshops and field days as special NE 
SARE/ACE initiatives to heighten both consumer and farmer awareness of the above 
issues. 


6. Support sustainable agriculture initiatives in other branches of the USDA and in the State 
Cooperative Extension System. 


¢ Support Extension System efforts to provide leadership in the transition to sustainable 
systems through special initiatives and competitive grants. These efforts should focus 
on providing person-to-person contact with farmers who are exemplary in 
development or adoption of sustainable farming methods. 


¢ Devote staff and administrative council time to supporting sustainable agriculture 
initiatives within other branches of the USDA. 


1 


4 ¥ - ~ im - ‘4 , 

ian! iq stelatuable food and ber ayiaeny el the GMicee 44 cere 

- , —_ » 4 P 
tt 4 stumallity of We rogiqt’s fou) aa’ 


a 


Mt i 
TONE be arb uy aonb ag aver bay cil PRSOREE Hae Si 
haeun rangi ei windelnd sla yusoes a olen) Soatae 
tacetie onute yiogoTs sili im slam Sees (soem an 
lewilushga to tonaqrat orf? bow eonnoived eff teste eortany: 74 
ant | i dimen? Doutertingiing crite) concta 


ia 
ri 


Drie Wrinie rsp 2TS0Tisi. oh Of AW? Sh OI? Lali deny tel . 


, * : hd 4 
: MIT s Wat) baie Quo yn Ohigbcn arpeoseIyy 


i ; ih ms pri 
} ' t y ¥ ~~ f J j > a % a ive 
. 
. ' - aa o 
: MiG efioc : { % Ae 4 
s 
' 
: ’ ; .  e _— *% ’ 
» ta j ee aT PAG } 
* - pep 
l ri al } Faas ee 
> - he . 4 
v hy i >! S oz < ‘We a P fi 


. 
} a" £ 1G » Pe yf io" me 
} : é sot 1 & 
4 ’ 
“| 
| : 
* % 
J 
> ~— é try 1 ioe 
ad > cult 
~ 
5 + 
~ - 
rf * a al » 1 
4 
; ' ‘ 7 oo ee | 


usione 


fact 
Or 


= 7 
eft:ets. he conmpettive eptat oroecee and oocoiel aire, Va 
makers at the ioctl, eate-ctagioeg? ant ustiuost) wre goo ge 


@-* 


irs wna Help: Th 


Clin Grey wna ab) bee TAWANH. . : os) 


~, Te 
ij 
7 
— ® 7 ee i” 7 
7 ie 
y z 7 
7 
a : 
7 
_ 
is 1? @ 
7 


APPENDIX TO PART I. 


Table of Contents of Appendix 


Pete ee) CORDA 1a] eee ees, Woe sce 2h... aetere ess + Sk oie tecee eA 21 
Attachment A. Administrative Council and Technical Committee Members, 1992 and 

ERS oo a teil ate: fran eA ML SOR OR eee eg: See ee TE 22 
Attachment B. Summary List of Northeast Region ACE and SARE Projects Funded in 

ee ets 95 ee Pe ee ae ee ae eS ee ee ene eee ae. vies ee 2S 
Attachment C. Funds Granted to Organizations in Specific States in 1992 by the ACE and 

Sak rakrogramis Stee ee... . eno liegeme og Peto... . iteddukt ay Sy) 
Pee iCtra) MLC OV IGWeLL ONC Cd meme) th ian ene eee eee. tc... eee 4] 


21 


Attachment A. Administrative Council and Technical Committee Members, 1992 and 


1993 


1992 Administrative Council 


Name 


George Bird 
James Bushnell 
Ray Eid 

John Habernern 
Robin Haggie 
Arthur B. Holland 
Dixon Hubbard 
Donald Kaufman 
Bill Kruesi 
William Lacy 
Patrick Madden 
Fred Magdoff 
John Merrill 
Robert Miller 
Brian Mrazik 
Anthony Potenza 
Karl Valley 
Harry W. Wells 


Affiliation/P osition Representing State 
director, SARE Program CSRS 
national program leader, agronomy USDA Extension Service 


DuPont 

Rodale Institute 

Chesapeake Wildlife Heritage 
Soil Conservation Service 
manager, Agri. Competitiveness 
USDA Soil Microbial Systems 
farmer, farm consultant 

Penn State Ag. Exp. Station 
Associate Director, SARE 
SARE & ACE Coordinator 
dairy farmer 

R.I. Cooperative Extension 
US Geological Survey 

grain, vegetable farmer 

Pa. Agriculture Dept. 

ACE Director 


1993 Administrative Council 


Name 


George Bird 
James Bushnell 
William Doepkens 
Ray Eid 

John Habernern 
Robin Haggie 
Bill Kruesi 
William Lacy 
Patrick Madden 
Fred Magdoff 
Gordon Marten 
John Merrill 
Robert Miller 
Brian Mrazik 


Affiliation/P osition 


SARE Program director 
national program leader, agronomy 
farmer 

DuPont 

Rodale Institute 

Chesapeake Wildlife Heritage 
farmer, farm consultant 

Penn State Ag. Exp. Station 
Associate Director, SARE 
SARE & ACE Coordinator 
USDA/ARS 

dairy farmer 

R.I. Cooperative Extension 
US Geological Survey 


22 


agribusiness 
non-governmental org. 
conservation organization 
SCS 

USDA Extension Service 
ARS 

family farms 

Ag. Exp. Station Directors 
CSRS 


family farms 

Cooperative Extension 

U.S. Geological Survey 

family farms 

NE Commissioners of Ag. 

EPA Pollution Prevention Office 


Representing 


CSRS 

USDA Extension Service 
family farms 

agribusiness 
non-governmental organizations 
conservation organizations 
family farms 

Ag. Exp. Station Directors 
CSRS 

University of Vermont 
ARS 

family farms 

Cooperative Extension 
U.S. Geological Survey 


Anthony Potenza 
J.M. Safley Jr. 
Karl Valley 
Harry W. Wells 


grain, vegetable farmer 

Soil Conservation Service 
Pennsylvania Agriculture Dept. 
ACE Director 


1992 Technical Committee 


Name 


Bill Achor 

John Ayers 

Dean Collamer 
William Doepkens 
Frank Drummond 
George Green 
Zane Helsel 
Elizabeth Henderson 
Bruce James 

Bill Kuenstler 
Robert Lucey 
John Myer 

Dale Riggs 

Eero Ruttila 

Fred Suffian | 
Region III 

Donald Tilmon 
Jon Turmel 


Position/A ffiliation 


Lancaster Ag. Preserve Bd. 
Penn State University 

Agway Inc. 

farmer 

University of Maine 

Penn State Fruit Research Lab 
Rutgers University Extension 
organic vegetable farmer 
University of Maryland 

SCS 

Cornell University 

organic farmer 

Cornell Cooperative Extension 
organic vegetable farmer 

EPA 


University of Delaware 
Vermont Agriculture Department 


1993 Technical Committee 


Name 


Bill Achor 

John Ayers 
Steven Broderick 
Dean Collamer 
Richard Conklin 
Lewis Daniels 
Gene Galletta 
Zane Helsel 
Elizabeth Henderson 
Bruce James 
Robert Lucey 
John Myer 

Dale Riggs 

Eero Ruttila 
Carolyn Sachs 
Kim Stoner 


Position/A ffiliation 


Lancaster Ag. Preserve Bd. 
Penn State University 
Extension Service 

Agway Inc. 

dairy farmer 

Soil Conservation Service 
USDA ARS 

Rutgers University Extension 
organic vegetable farmer 
University of Maryland 
Cornell University 

organic farmer 

Cornell Cooperative Extension 
organic vegetable farmer 
Penn State University 

New Haven Ag. Exp. Station 


23 


family farms 

SCS 

NE Ag. Commissions 

EPA Pollution Prevention Office 


Area of Expertise 


agronomy/farm management 
plant pathology 

plant production 

veg. &agronomic crops, beef,. 
entomology 

tree fruit 

agronomy 

vegetables, small fruit 

soil fertility 

soil Conservation 

agronomy 

agronomic crops 

vegetable crops 

vegetables 

agronomy 


economics, farm management 
entomology 


Area of Expertise 


agronomy/farm management 
plant pathology 

forestry 

plant production 
agronomic crops, livestock 
soils 

small fruits 

agronomy 

vegetables, small fruit 

soil fertility 

agronomy 

agronomic crops 
vegetable crops 

vegetables 

tural sociology 
entomology 


NY 
Die 
PA 
DC 


State 


EPA 


State 


Fred Suffian EPA agronomy EPA 


Region III 
Donald Tilmon University of Delaware economics, farm managment DE 
Jon Turmel Vermont Agriculture Department entomology VT 


24 


Areas of Technical Committee Reviewer Expertise, 1992-1993 


Agronomy 

Dairy farming 
Economics 

Entomology 

Farm management 
Forestry 

Plant pathology 

Plant production 

Organic vegetable farming 
Organic grain production 
Rural sociology 

Soil conservation 

Soil fertility 

Tree fruit 

Vegetable crops 


z5 


Attachment B. Summary List of Northeast Region ACE and SARE Projects Funded in 
1992 and 1993. 


ACE Projects Funded in 1992: 
ANE92-8: Development of Sustainable Cropping Systems. 


Project Coordinator: William J. Cox, Soil, Crop and Atmospheric Sciences, 143 
Emerson Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 14853. Phone: 607-255-1758. 


Researchers and farmers in upstate New York will demonstrate a market-oriented cash 
crop system that decreases reliance on chemical pesticides and fertilizers, increases 
acreage of small grain and oilseed crops, and maintains or improves soil and water 


quality. All principal investigators have extension appointments. 


Participants: Faculty from Cornell University, Cornell field crop agents and 4 
farmers. 


ACE funding: $60,608. Matching funds: $81,939. Duration: Two years. 


ANE92-9: Sustainable Landscapes. 


Project Coordinator: Richard A. Cassagrande, URI, Kingston, RI 02881. Phone: 
401-792-2635. 


University faculty, extension agents and nurserymen will work together to develop and 
distribute information on pest-resistant plants and practices. The goal is to provide 


practical alternatives to heavy use of pesticides and fertilizers in landscaping. 


Participants: University of Massachusetts Cooperative Extension, University of Rhode 
Island, and one nurseryman. 


ACE funding: $75,000. Matching funds:$97,429. Duration: Two years. 


ANE92-10: Farmer to Farmer Compost Exchange Project. 
Project Coordinator: Denise Conkling, district manager Hartford County Soil and 


Water Conservation District, 627 River Street, Windsor, CT 06095. Phone: 
204-688-7725. 


26 


This project will help answer farmers’ questions about the opportunities and challenges 
of composting municipal leaf waste. It will help farmers determine the nutrient value 
of and best use for the compost, assess the economics of contracting with a 
municipality, and evaluate options for excess material. 


Participants: Hartford County Soil and Water Conservation District, Connecticut 
Experiment Station, USDA Soil Conservation and Stabilization Service and farmer 
Jack Collins. 


ACE funding: $34,000. Matching funds: $19,720. Duration: Two and one-third 
years. 


ANE92-11: Alternative Rotation System for Vegetable Production and Soil 
Conservation. 


Project Coordinator: Allen G. Matthews, farmer, Scenery Hill, PA, 15360. Phone: 
412-757-6864. 


Written and developed by farmers, this two-year project will test alternative production 
techniques to conserve soil and reduce use of chemical herbicides and pesticides in the 
southwestern region of Pennsylvania. Participants will evaluate the economic benefits 
of sustainable practices, develop a database of production and marketing information, 
and test whether an alternative soil conservation plan can reduce acceptable crop 
rotations from seven to four years. 


Participants: Penn State Cooperative Extension, Soil Conservation Service, FARM 
Cooperative, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, H.G. Matthews 
Family Farm, Washington County Conservation District, Penns Corner Resource 
Conservation and Development Trust. 


ACE funding: $74,131. Matching funds: $20,700. Duration: Two years. 


ANE92-12: Ecosystem Based Orchard Management for Processing Apples. 


Project Coordinator: Tara A. Baugher, West Virginia University Experiment Station, 
Kearneysville, WV 25430. Phone: 304-876-6353. 


A 14-acre apple orchard at the WVU Experiment Station will be established to test 


sustainable orchard practices against conventional systems. The focus: soil 
management, nematode control, tree establishment and economic analysis. 


at 


Participants: West Virginia University, USDA Appalachian Fruit Research Station, 
WVU Extension, Jefferson County ASCS, West Virginia Horticultural Society, apple 
processors, West Virginia Department of Agriculture, Penn State University, Virginia 
Polytech Institute and State University, University of Maryland. 


ACE funding: $16,200. Matching funds: $15,298. Duration: One year. 


ANE92-13: Development, Demonstration and Implementation of a Low-Input 
Sustainable Potato Integrated Crop Management Program. 


Project Coordinator: Z. Smilowitz, Department of Entomology, 501 Ag. Sciences & 
Industry Building, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802. 
Phone: 814-865-1895. 


This four-year project will demonstrate a prototype for sustainable potato production 
on a commercial farm, evaluating low-input practices against traditional methods. It 
will include an integrated crop management system to reduce potato pests. 


Participants: Penn State University; the Lehigh and Northampton County extension 
services; Biosys, a biological pest control company; 10 potato farmers. 


ACE funding: $25,000. Matching funds: $25,734. Duration: one year. 


ANE92-14: Integrated Kenaf, Broiler Manure and Beef Production System. 


Project Coordinator: Thomas H. Williams, University of Delaware, Townsend Hall, 
Newark, DE, 19717-1303. Phone: 302-831-2468. 


This project will promote the use of a waste, broiler chicken manure, as an 
inexpensive source of feed and pasture fertilizer for beef production in the Delmarva 
Peninsula. Kenaf, a fibrous annual hibiscus, will be grown and used as chicken litter. 
Goals include groundwater protection from nitrate pollution and increased farm 
profitability. 


Participants: University of Delaware, Delaware State College, Shawnee Wood Farms, 
Inc. 


ACE funding: $81,500. Matching funds: $69,259. Duration: Two years. 


28 


ANE92-15: Fungal Pathogens for Biological Control of Sweetpotato Whitefly in 
Greenhouses. 


Project Coordinators: Bruce L. Parker and Michael Brownbridge, University of 
Vermont Entomology Research Laboratory, 655B Spear Street, South Burlington, VT 
05403. Phone: 802-658-4453. 


Researchers will take aim at a major new greenhouse pest, sweet potato: whiteflies, in 
this investigation into the use of certain fungi as a natural enemy to control insect 
populations. 


Participants: Cornell University IPM Support Group and Department of Entomology; 
USDA ARS; Biosystems, Denmark; University of Vermont Extension Service; 
commercial greenhouses. 


ACE funding: $68,561. Matching funds: $75,314. Duration: Two years. 


ACE92-16: Development of a Low Input Apple Production System for the Northeast.* 


Project Coordinator: L.P. Berkett, University of Vermont Department of Plant and 
Soil Science, Hills Building, Burlington, Vermont, 05405-0106. Phone: 802-656-0481 


Using disease-resistant cultivars and integrated pest management techniques, 
researchers will continue developing low-input, sustainable apple production systems in 
five Northeast states. 


Participants: University of Massachusetts, Rutgers Fruit Research and Development 
Center, New York Agricultural Experiment Station, Cornell University, Rodale 
Research Center, the University of Vermont, apple growers in the participating states. 


ACE Funding: $160,000. Matching Funds: $70,961. 


Duration: One year. (Note: This project began in 1988 and is also receiving SARE 
funds. See LNE88-01 for more funding information.) 


29 


SARE Projects Funded in 1992: 
LNE88-01:* Development of a Low Input Apple Production System for the Northeast 


Project Coordinator: L.P. Berkett, University of Vermont Department of Plant and 
Soil Science, Hills Building, Burlington, Vermont, 05405-0106. Phone: 802-656-0481 


Using disease-resistant cultivars and integrated pest management techniques, 
researchers will continue developing low-input, sustainable apple production systems in 
five Northeast states. 


Participants: University of Massachusetts, Rutgers Fruit Research and Development 
Center, New York Agricultural Experiment Station, Cornell University, Rodale 
Research Center, the University of Vermont, apple growers in the participating states. 


SARE funding: $85,700. 

Duration: This project began in 1988. The 1992 grants provided funding for one 
additional year. (Please note: this project is also receiving ACE funding. See ACE92- 
16). 


LNE88-02:* Improving Farm Profitability By Efficiently Using the Pasture Resource 


Project Coordinator: William Murphy, Department of Plant and Soil Science, 
University of Vermont, Burlington, VT 05405. Phone: 802-656-0485. 


Researchers will assist farmers in using controlled grazing to improve the productivity 
of their land, reduce labor costs and potentially decrease erosion and pollution. Areas 
to be studied include: forage intake, ration balancing, light relationships among pasture 
plants and the effects of mechanical treatments of the pasture. 


Participants: University of Vermont and Cooperative Extension Service, West 
Virginia University and Extension Service, State University of New York Syracuse, 
dairy farmers. 


SARE funding: $150,570. Matching funds: $91,344. 
Duration: This project has been in continuous operation since it was first funded by 
the LISA program in 1988. The 1992 grants provided funding for one additional year. 


* Indicates refunding of an ongoing project. 


30 


LNE89-16:* Evaluation of Alternative Strategies for Small Fruit Production 


Project Coordinator: Barbara L. Goulart, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA 16802. Phone: 814-863-2303. 


Researchers from five Northeastern states will continue efforts to devise and test 
production techniques for strawberries and brambles that reduce chemical inputs, 
improve production and maintain or increase marketable yields. 


Participants include: The Pennsylvania State University; University of Massachusetts; 
Cornell University; University of Maine; USDA ARS; extension specialists in New 
York, Maine, and Massachusetts; fruit producers. 


SARE funding: $216,716. Matching funds: $190,988. 
Duration: This project began in 1989. The 1992 grants provided funding for one 
additional year. 


LNE90-20:* Whole Farm Impact of Converting Conventionally Managed Eastern 
Vineyards to Organic Management Practices. 


Project Coordinator: Chris M. Becker and David M. Gadoury, Department of Plant 
Pathology, Cornell University, New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, 
Geneva, NY 14456. Phone 315-787-2367. 


This project continues research into the benefits and challenges of converting 
conventional eastern grape operations to organic management. The project will 
compare pest populations and problems, vine vigor, yield, fruit composition, juice and 
wine quality, and production costs in conventionally and organically managed 
orchards. 


Roger Pearson, who died in March of 1993, coordinated this project from 1990 until 
his death. Pearson was a faculty member of the New York State Agricultural 
Experiment Station. 


Participants: Cornell University N.Y. Agricultural Experiment Station, Vintner’s 
International Inc. vineyard, Cornell University Cooperative Extension Service, Natural 
Organic Farmer’s Association of New York, Four Chimney’s Farm Winery. 


SARE funding: $123,305. Matching funds: $112,623. 


* Indicates refunding of an ongoing project. 


31 


Duration: This project began in 1990. The 1992 grants provided funding for one 
additional year. 


LNE92-30: Decision Making in Sustainable Agricultural Systems (planning grant) 


Project Coordinator: Michelle J. Hutt, University of Southern Maine, 538 Science 
Building, 96 Falmouth Street, Portland, Maine 04130. Phone: 207-780-4411. 


This planning grant will support development of project methodology for possible 
future case studies on decision-making using a "whole farm" approach. 


Participants: University of Southern Maine, Guy K. Hutt, director, Wolfe’s Neck 
Farm. 


SARE funding: $5,000. Matching funding: $8,480. Duration: One year. 


LNE92-31: Demonstrating the Economic and Environmental Advantages of Legume 
Cover Crops to New England Vegetable Growers. 


Project Coordinator: Stephen Herbert, Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, 
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003. Phone: 413-545-2250. 


Continuing work initiated under two previous LISA (Low Input Sustainable 
Agriculture) grants, this project is designed to address New England vegetable 
growers’ concerns about using legumes as a cover crop. Through 17 on-farm 
demonstrations and eight field studies, researchers will evaluate farmer concerns about 
weediness, establishment time and winter killing and find out whether legume 
cover-crops will reduce nitrogen, herbicide and fossil fuel inputs. 


Participants: University of Maine (Orono), Maine Department of Agriculture, 
University of Vermont Cooperative Extension, University of Massachusetts Extension, 


17 growers in Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont. 


SARE funding: $100,000. Matching funding: $143,018. 
Duration: Two years and five months. 


32 


LNE92-32: A Living Laboratory Classroom for the Integration of Research and 
Education Efforts on Alternative Vegetable Production Systems. 


Project Coordinator: Kenneth L. Steffen, 114 Tyson Building, The Pennsylvania 
State University, University Park, PA 16802. Phone: 814-865-7118. 


Penn State faculty, extension agents and farmers will evaluate ecological, agricultural 
and economic performance of five vegetable production systems, ranging from a 
"certified organic’’ operation to conventional agrichemical and tillage. 

Participants: The Pennsylvania State University departments of Horticulture, 
Entomology, Plant Pathology, Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology, and the 


Penn State Cooperative Extension, four farmers. 


SARE funding: $100,000. Matching funding: $74,336. Duration: Two years. 
LNE92-33: Fungal Pathogens for Biological Control of Western Flower Thrips and 

Green Peach Aphid in Greenhouses. 

Project Coordinators: Bruce L. Parker & Michael Brownbridge, University of 

Vermont Entomology Research Laboratory, 655B Spear Street, South Burlington, VT 

05403. Phone: 802-658-4453. 

Researchers will study the effectiveness of certain fungi as natural enmemies in 

inhibiting two insect pests that represent a significant economic threat to the 

greenhouse industry. 

Participants: Cornell University IPM Support Group and Department of Entomology; 

USDA ARS; Biosystems, Denmark; University of Vermont Extension Service; 


commercial greenhouses. 


SARE funding: $79,709. Matching funding: $44,851. Duration: Two years. 


ACE Projects Funded in 1993: 


ANE92-12:* Ecosystem-Based Orchard Management for Processing Apples. 


Project Coordinator: Tara A. Baugher, West Virginia University, Experiment Station, 
Kearneysville, WV 25430. Phone: 304-876-6353. 


: Indicates refunding of an ongoing project. 


33 


Researchers will continue testing sustainable orchard practices against conventional 
systems on a 14 acre orchard at the West Virginia Experiment Station. The focus will 
be on soil management, nematode control, tree establishment and economic analysis. 


Participants: West Virginia University, USDA Appalachian Fruit Research Station, 

WVU Extension, Jefferson County ASCS, West Virginia Department of Agriculture, 
Penn State University, Virginia Polytech Institute and State University, University of 
Maryland, West Virginia Horticulture Society, commercial apple processors. 


ACE Grant Amount: $50,670 (funding for three years). Non-federal matching 
funds: $47,894. Other federal funds: $27,636. 


ANE93-17: Improving Nutrient Management on a 100-Cow Free Stall Dairy Farm 


Project Coordinator: Everett D. Thomas, W.H. Miner Agricultural Research Institute, 
P.O. Box 90, Chazy, NY 12921. Phone: 518-846-8020. 


Participants will investigate potential alternatives for reducing the amount of nutrients 
that accumulate on dairy farms, looking at both plant and animal systems. It includes — 
dairy nutrition research to explore techniques to increase digestibility and utilization of 
forage and grain. and better balance supply and demand of Nitrogen, Phosphorus, and 
Potasium. 


Participants: Miner Institute, University of Pennsylvania, Cargill, Inc. 


ACE Grant Amount: $97,000 for three years. Matching non-federal: $24,507. 


LNE93-36, ANE93-18: Ecological Management of Potato Cropping Systems 


Project Coordinator: Gregory A. Porter, Department of Plant, Soil and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Maine, Orono, Maine 04469-5722. Phone: 
207-581-2943. 

This project is part of a larger, interdisciplinary "Potato Agroecosystem" project. 
SARE/ACE funds will be used to investigate the effects of green manure, compost and 
manure soil physical properties, and to determine the impact of four biocontrol agents 
on Colorado potato beetles. 

Participants: University of Maine, USDA-ARS New England Plant, Soil & Water 
Laboratory. 


34 


SARE/ACE Grant Amount: $150,000 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: 
$138,838. Other federal funds: $377,971. 


SARE Projects Funded in 1993: 


LNE93-34: An Integrated Extension/Research Program for Replacing Herbicides With 
Mechanical Cultivation in New York State 


Project Coordinator: Jane Mt. Pleasant, 146 Emerson, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
New York 14853. Phone: 607-255-1755. 


This project is designed to help farmers find out how to introduce mechanical 
cultivation into a variety of cropping systems and fine-tune machinery for their needs. 
Participants will hold a series of winter cultivation clinics, help establish a 
farmer-to-farmer information network and sponsor summer field tours of on-farm trials 
and demonstration plots. The information and techniques presented will be based on 
research which has recently been completed or is currently underway at Cornell. 


SARE/ACE Grant Amount: $103,235 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: 
$70,246. 


LNE93-35: Develop Crop Rotational Budgets for Three Cropping Systems in the 
Northeast 


Project Coordinator: Robin G. Brumfield, Dept. of Agricultural Economics and 
Marketing, Cook College, Rutgers University, P.O. Box 231, New Brunswick, New 
Jersey 08903-0231. Phone: 908-932-9171. 


This project will develop enterprise budgets for a variety of crop and livestock 
operations under conventional, reduced-input and organic production systems. It is 
geared to conventional farmers who are considering switching to low-input or organic 
production systems. 


Participants: Rutgers, University, The Pennsylvania State University, Natural Organic 
Farmers Association of N.J., University of New Hampshire, University of 


Massachusetts, University of Delaware, University of Maryland, University of Vermont 


SARE/ACE Grant Amount: $60,846 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: 
$159,742. 


35 


LNE93-36, ANE93-18: Ecological Management of Potato Cropping Systems 


Project Coordinator: Gregory A. Porter, Department of Plant, Soil and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Maine, Orono, ME 04469-5722. Phone: 207- 
581-2943. 


This project is part of a larger, interdisciplinary "Potato Agroecosystem" project. 
SARE/ACE funds will be used to investigate the effects of green manure, compost and 
manure soil physical properties, and to determine the impact of four biocontrol agents 
on Colorado potato beetles. 


Participants: University of Maine, USDA-ARS New England Plant, Soil & Water 
Laboratory. 


SARE/ACE Grant Amount: $150,000 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: 
$138,838. Other federal funds: $377,971. 


LNE93-37: Integrating Stewardship Forestry into Total Farm Management 


Project Coordinator: Stephen B. Jones and James C. Finley, The Pennsylvania State 
University, School of Resources, 110 Ferguson Building, University Park, PA 16802. 
Phone: 814-863-0401. 


Participants will establish six demonstration/research replicates to examine the 
environmental and economic benefits of proper farm woodlot management. 
Educational and outreach activities will focus on helping farmers learn how to manage 
their forests wisely. 


Grant Amount: $48,408 for three years. Non-federal matching funds: $52,948. 


LNE93-38: Biodiversity Education Through the Pennsylvania Forest Stewardship 
Program 


Project Coordinator: James C. Finley and Stephen B. Jones, The Pennsylvania State 
University, School of Resources, 110 Ferguson Building, University Park, PA 16802. 
Phone: 814-863-0401. 


The goal of this project is to provide professional foresters with a method to rapidly 
assess the nature and quality of habitat components and to provide private forest 
landowners, including farmers, with an understanding of biodiversity. Participants will 
established a biodiversity demonstration site, produce a field manual, hold workshops. 


36 


Grant Amount: $23,508 for one year. Non-federal matching funds: $16,940. 


LNE93-39: Systems Analysis of Organic and Transitional Dairy Production 


Project Coordinator: Enid Wonnacott, NOFA-Vermont, 15 Barre Street, Montpelier, 
VT 05602. Phone: 802-229-4940. 


Participants will conduct detailed farm management analyses on four certified and four 
transitional dairy farms to obtain accurate information on the real costs of sustainable 
dairy production -- economic, environmental and soil. Because of the diversity of the 
farms, each will be analyzed as case-studies, providing relevant information for farms 
with similar characteristics. 


Participants: NOFA-VT, University of Vermont and Cooperative Extension 
Grant Amount: $165,000 for three years. Non-federal matching funds: $73,223. 
Other federal funds: $57,885. 

LNE88-01, ACE92-16:* Development of a Sustainable Apple Production System for the 


Northeast 


Project Coordinator: Terry Schettini, Rodale Institute Research Center, 611 
Seigfriedale Road, Kutztown, Pennsylvania 19530. Phone: 215-683-6383. 


Using disease-resistant cultivars and integrated pest management techniques, 
researchers will continue developing sustainable apple production systems in five 


Northeast state. 


Participants: Rodale Institute, Rutgers University, University of Massachusetts, 
University of Vermont, Cornell University and apple growers in the five states. 


SARE Grant Amount: $97,800 for one year. 
ACE Grant Amount: $164,200 for one year. Non-federal matching funds: 


LNE88-02:* Improving Farm Profitability by Efficiently Using the Pasture Resource 


Project Coordinator: Bill Murphy, Plant and Soil Science Dept., University of 
Vermont, Burlington, VT 05405-0082. Phone: 802-656-2630. 


* Indicates refunding of an ongoing project. 


37 


Researchers will assist farmers using controlled grazing to improve the productivity of 
their land, reduce labor costs and potentially decrease erosion and pollution. Areas to 
be studied include forage intake, ration balancing, light relationships among pasture 
plants and the economic effects of well-managed grazing. 


Participants: University of Vermont and Cooperative Extension Service, West 
Virginia University and Cooperative Extension Service, State University of New York 
Syracuse, dairy farmers in Vermont. 


SARE Grant Amount: $121,058 (funding to completion of project). 


LNE90-20:* Whole Farm Impact of Converting Conventionally Managed Eastern 
Vineyards to Organic Management Practices 


Project Coordinator: Chris. M. Becker, Cornell University, New York State 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Geneva, NY 14456. Phone: 315-787-2367. 


This project continues research into the benefits and challenges of converting 
conventional eastern grape production to organic management. During this final 
funding period, the researchers will compare pest populations and problems, vine 
vigor, yield, fruit composition, juice and wine quality, and production costs in 
conventionally and organically managed vineyards. 


Participants: Cornell University/N.Y. Agricultural Experiment Station, Vintner’s 
International Inc. (Commercial Vineyard) Natural Organic Farmers Association of New 


York, Four Chimney’s Farm Winery. 


SARE Grant Amount: $67,932 (funding to completion of project). 
Non-federal matching funds: $112,623. 


LNE92-32:* A Living Laboratory/Classroom for the Integration of Research and 
Education Efforts on Alternative Vegetable Production Systems 


Project Coordinator: Kenneth Steffen, 114 Tyson Building, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, PA 16802. Phone: 814.-865-7118. 


* Indicates refunding of an ongoing project. 


38 


Participants will evaluate ecological, agricultural and economic performance of five 
vegetable production systems ranging from a certified organic operation to 
conventional agrichemical and tillage system. 


Participants: The Pennsylvania State University and Penn State Cooperative 
Extension Service. | 


SARE Grant Amount: $120,000 for one year. Non-federal matching funds: 
$74,336. 


LNE91-27*: An Integrated Response to Pollination-Related Problems Resulting from 
Parasitic Honey Bee Mites, the Africanized Honey Bee and Honey Bee Pathogens 


Project Coordinator: Nicholas W. Calderone, ARS Bee Research Laboratory, 
Building 476 BARC-EAST, Beltsville, Maryland 20705. Phone: 301:504-8574. 


This project is addressing pollination-related problems from four perspectives. It is 
demonstrating a honey bee breeding project designed to develop mite-tolerant bees and 
offer alternative mite controls; it is evaluating naturally occuring plant compounds for 
mite control; it is developing an expert system model for bee keepers; and it is 
developing an educational video and booklet to help growers evaluate rented colonies. 


Participants: ARS, Cornell University. 


SARE Grant Amount: $39,250 (funding for two years to completion of project). 
Non-federal matching funds: $24,484. Other federal funds: $69,501. 


* Indicates refunding of an ongoing project. 


39 


Attachment C. Funds Granted to Organizations in Specific States in 1992 by the ACE 


and SARE Programs. 


ACE 1992 FUNDS ACE 
Connecticut 
Hartford Co. Soil & 34,000 


Conservation Dist. 


Delaware 
University of Del. 63,135 
Delaware State Col. 18,365 
Total 81,500 
Massachusetts 
University of Mass. 57,362 
New Jersey 
Rutgers University 43,659 
New York 
Comell University 112,102 
Pennsylvania 
Penn State University 25,000 
Penn’s Corner’s Trust 22,140 
F.A.R.M. Coop 51,991 
Total 99,131 
Rhode Island 
University of R.I. 75,000 
Vermont 
University of Vermont 81,046 
West Virginia 
West Virgina Univers. 16,200 
TOTALS 600,000 


40 


NON-FED 
MATCH 


19,720 


60,359 
8,900 


69,259 


43,560 


109,340 


25,734 
3,840 
16,860 


46,434 


97,429 


75,314 


15,298 


476,354 


SARE 1992 FUNDS 


Maine 
University of Maine 
MOFGA 
Maine Dept. of Agric. 
University of S. Me. 
Total 


Massachusetts 


University of Mass. 


New York 


Cornell University 
SUNY Syracuse 


Total 
Pennsylvania 


Penn State University 
Rodale Research Ctr. 


Total 


Vermont 


‘University of Vermont 


West Virginia 


West Virgina Univers. 
USDA/ARS 


Total 


TOTALS 


SARE 


61,997 
800 
5,300 
5,000 


(AEN 


118,873 


166,069 
4,500 


170,569 


159,862 
52,546 


212,408 


238,764 


30,969 
16,320 


47,289 


861,000 


41 


MATCH 


98,914 
0 

1,440 

8,480 


108,834 


61,352 


183,613 
4,544 


188,157 


(BCP R ee 
0 


L 197359 


122192 


16,526 
49,220 


65,746 


665,640 


Attachment D. Site Reviews Conducted for SARE and ACE Projects in the Northeast Region during FY 
1992 and thus far in FY 1993 


1. LNE88-04, "Whole farm implementation of Alternative Agriculture Practices for Field Crops," conducted at 
East Aurora, NY, 12/11/91. 


2. ANE91-1, "Improving Crop Adaptation to Alternative Systems," conducted at Cornell University, Feb. 11, 
1992. 


Review Team 


Name Organization AC/TC/Other 
Ed Jones, Aye 

Bill Kruesi farm consultant AC 

Fred Magdoff NE SARE/ACE Coord. AC 

Tony Potenza organic farmer AC 

Eric Veitenheimer Other 

Harry Wells USEPA-ACE director AC 


3. ANE91-2, "Implementing and Extending Low-Input Cranberry Production," conducted at the 
Cranberry Experiment Station, East Wareham, Mass. 


Review Team 


Name Organization AC/TC/Other 
Brian Chabot Cornell AC 
Frank Drummond University of Maine TC 
George Greene Penn State TC 
Fred Magdoff NE SARE/ACE Coord. AC 
Eero Ruttilla organic farmer TC 


4. LNE89-16, "Evaluation of Alternative Strategies for Small Fruit Production," conducted at The Pennsylvania 
State University, February 6, 1992. 


Review Team 


Name Organization AC/TC/Other 
Gene Galletta ARS Other 

John Haberen Rodale Institute AC 

Elizabeth Henderson farmer ie 

Patrick Madden SARE Assoc. Director AC 

Fred Magdoff NE SARE/ACE Coord. AC 

Bob Miller R.IJ. Extension AC 

Tony Potenza organic farmer AC 


42 


5. LNE88-02, "Improving Farm Profitability by Efficiently Using the Pasture Resource," conducted in South 
Burlington, Vermont, Dec. 11, 1992. 


Review Team 


Name Organization AC/TC/Other 
George Bird SARE Director AC 

Bob Lucey Cornell TC 

Fred Magdoff NE SARE/ACE Coord. AC 

John Merrill dairy farmer AC 

Charlie Sniffen Other 

Don Tilmon University of Delaware TC 


6. LNE88-01, "Development of a Sustainable Apple Production System for the Northeast." conducted at Cornell 
University, Ithaca New York on Jan. 15, 1993. 


Review Team 


Name Organization AC/TC/Other 
George Bird SARE Program Director AC 
Gene Galletta USDA/ARS [LG 
Fred Magdoff NE SARE Coordinator AC 
Tony Potenza Organic Farmer AC 
Don Tilmon’ University of Delaware TC 
Harry Wells USEPA-ACE Director AC 


7. LNE90-20, "While Farm Impact of Converting Conventionally Managed Eastern Vineyards to Organic 
Management," conducted at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, on 1/14/93. 


Review Team 


Name Organization AC/TC/Other 
George Bird SARE Program Director AC 
Gene Galleta USDA/ARS TC 
Fred Magdoff NE SARE Coordinator AC 
Tony Potenza Organic Farmer AC 
Don Tilmon University of Delaware tC 


43 


PART II. SARE PROJECTS FUNDED 1988 TO 1993 


The following are descriptions of all the Northeast Region LISA and subsequently 
SARE projects funded from 1988 through 1993, including results from the progress 
reports received in 1992. 


Table of Contents of PART II 
LNE88-1: DEVELOPMENT OF A LOW-INPUT APPLE PRODUCTION SYSTEM 
FOR :THE NORTHEAST (4. 23 ee ee 


LNE88-2: IMPROVING FARM PROFITABILITY BY EFFICIENTLY USING THE 
PASTURE RESOURCE, (ace... qs cece: os ae ee ee 


LNE88-3: ROLE OF CEREAL GRAIN COVER CROPS IN NITROGEN MANAGE- 
MENT FOR THE CHESAPEAK FAB ANG REGION gia... )y see 


LNE88-4: WHOLE-FARM IMPLEMENTATION OF ALTERNATIVE AGRICUL- 
TURE-PRACTICES FOR FIELD CROPS Sat) Sa! os. ce 


LNE88-5: COVER CROPS FOR NEW ENGLAND VEGETABLE GROWERS: ON- 
FARM RESEARCH, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND OUTREACH ......... 


LNE88-6: NORTHEASTERN DAIRY FARM FORAGE DEMONSTRATION PRO- 
M15 Go I Tee are eet nat et aoe print, Wn ene mime hire GRU NEM Bt Kg 


LNE88-7: WEED CONTROL IN REDUCED TILLAGE CROPPING SYSTEMS: 
USE OF OVERSEEDERECOVER CROPS | gastueser.. . 5c,  ) oe ee 


LNE88-8: IMPLEMENTATION OF ELECTRONIC DECISION SUPPORT TECH- 
NOLOGY EOR APPLE PRODUCTION Ae mre 2. ee 


LNE88-9: ALTERNATIVE CROPPING SYSTEMS FOR LOW-INPUT AGRICUL- 
TVURECIN SL AESNORTHEAS [ieee Cerri) cee anette ye ee 


LNE88-10: DEVELOPMENT, EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF 
COW-INPUT SYSTEMS FOR BASTERNEVINE YARDS 3). 250) eee 


LNE88-11: TAKING CHARGE: STRATEGIES FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICUL- 
TURE IN THE NORPHEAS IEW IDEO PRESENTATIONS) aoe ee 


LNE89-12: RUMINANT ANIMAL PRODUCTION USING TYFON FORAGE 
BRASSIGA (2 25.53 ee sere, eee She eee ea kent 4c Cok ee or 


LNE89-13: WINTER COVER CROPS FOR CORN PRODUCTION IN THE 
NORTHEAST: N BALANCE AND SOIL MOISTURE STATUS .......... 


LNE89-14: NORTHEASTERN ORGANIC AND SUSTAINABLE FARMER NET- 
WORK: MANUAL OF CURRENT PRACTICES, EXTENSION TRAINING 
PNUEU EP OID AN Swed yee mean eee eae «le eid alee ve ae BOARD &. 


LNE89-15: EGGPLANT: A MODEL SYSTEM FOR IMPLEMENTING THE INTE- 
GRATION OF A BIOLOGICAL CONTROL INTENSIVE PEST MANAGE- 
MENT FOR THE MAJOR INSECT AND DISEASE PESTS OF SOLANA- 
GEOUS GCRORS INGTHEONORTHEAS Taavier:, fot Ober myers 9 os ate: 


LNE89-16: EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES FOR SMALL 
ERUITERRO DUCTION Ra ataee oes ae SIT RAT pe ooh Eons. 


LNE89-17: IMPROVING MILK QUALITY AND ANIMAL HEALTH BY 
BRRICIENTIMVAS DUREUMANAGEMEN T Wage) Peet i ARAL. & Ae ee 


LNE89-18: MARKETABILITY OF LOW-INPUT AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE . 


LNE89-19: REDUCED TILLAGE: ALTERNATIVE CROPPING SYSTEMS FOR 
ME GE FABLEIPRODU CRON INE I HEINORITHEAS Wee seri kt. Seen. Sc 


LNE90-20: WHOLE-FARM IMPACT OF CONVERTING CONVENTIONALLY 
MANAGED EASTERN VINEYARDS TO ORGANIC MANAGEMENT 
PRAGII CE Sas eee Gaelee. Prive. Soe Los ee caty PAT Reet in. 5 


LNE90-21: HONEYBEE BREEDING FOR TRACHEAL MITE RESISTANCE IN 
TibNORTHEASTERNWUNITED STATES AS Owe oe et 


LNE90-22: NOVEL ROTATION CROPS AS ALTERNATIVES TO FUMIGANT 
NEMATICIDE TREATMENT IN DECIDUOUS TREE FRUIT 
PRODUGHONE etme aewte tat ALOHA MAY MATT ye ay iy .t2..reg: 


LNE90-23: THE INTEGRATION OF CROP (POTATO) AND LIVESTOCK 
PRODUGHIONSY SEEMSig ies FOL Ie POR eT pe a 


LNE90-24: SUSTAINABLE SOD PRODUCTION FOR THE NORTHEAST ....... 
LNE90-25: IMPROVING CROP ADAPTATION TO ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS 


LNE90-26: ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES FOR CRANBERRY PRODUCTION IN 
Pe LEM Cntr eA Lanne OP See eeveY Leet AMAR, My ete we! et te eg 


44 


LNE91-27: AN INTEGRATED RESPONSE TO POLLINATION-RELATED PROB- 
LEMS RESULTING FROM PARASITIC HONEY-BEE MITES AND THE 
AFRICANIZED HONEY"BEE og 22). (rp DOP OE. 1g. Se eee eee 


LNE91-28: THE NORTHEASTERN FARMER-TO-FARMER INFORMATION EX- 
CHANGE: is eee Shen deed anew kd. SIR 8 leg ah ie 


LNE92-30: DECISION MAKING IN SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE SYSTEMS 
-.RLANNING’‘GRAND) .......sT@e 5 SOM SHY. Vi) Sars Se 


LNE92-31: DEMONSTRATING THE ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
ADVANTAGES OF LEGUME COVER CROPS TO NEW ENGLAND 
VEGETABLE: GROWERS sco te ee eee eee ent eee 


LNE92-32: A LIVING LABORATORY/CLASSROOM FOR THE INTEGRATION 
OF RESEARCH AND EDUCATION EFFORTS ON ALTERNATIVE 
VEGETABLE: PRODUGTIONIS YSTEMS SE Pe a ee ee. eee 


LNE92-33: FUNGAL PATHOGENS FOR BIOCONTROL OF WESTERN FLOWER 
THRIPS*AND GREEN, PEACHJAPHIDIIN(GREENHOUSES i ae 


LNE93-34: AN INTEGRATED EXTENSION/RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR 
REPLACING HERBICIDES WITH MECHANICAL CULTIVATION IN NEW 
MORK SEATE sxe shine » eee mee eicle o eae eo © pou g @ eee eee ee 


LNE93-35: DEVELOP CROP ROTATIONAL BUDGETS FOR THREE CROPPING 
SYSTEMS INslHE/NORTHEAST OA eas TTA WASABI Ge ee ee 


LNE93-36: ECOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT OF POTATO CROPPING SYSTEMS .. 


LNE93-37: INTEGRATING STEWARDSHIP FORESTRY INTO TOTAL FARM 
MANAGEMENTIVE (ROG EUNES & YS ott PO, Eee te te eee 


LNE93-38: BIODIVERSITY EDUCATION THROUGH THE PENNSYLVANIA 
FOREST#S: LE WARDSHIPYPROGRANIN BP), hath, Cres eet ten ARR ee 


LNE93-39: SYSTEMS ANALYSIS OF ORGANIC AND TRANSITIONAL DAIRY 
PRODUGHION® Gruss | SIE. BS ee. 2 A. ey Os Ge eee 


45 


LNE88-1: DEVELOPMENT OF A LOW-INPUT APPLE PRODUCTION SYSTEM 
FOR THE NORTHEAST 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


Pennsylvania: T.M. Schettini, Horticulture Section Coordinator, Rodale Research Center, 611 
Siegfriedale Road, Kutztown, PA 19530; contact person and project adviser for 
Rodale portion of the project; Rodale responsibilities include coordination and admin- 
istration of their Horticulture Dept. and advising for experimental designs and analy- 
ses; areas of expertise include plant breeding and plant tolerance to environment 
stresses; S. Wolfgang, Orchard Project Leader; responsible for establishment and 
management of test plots, data collection and summary; responsibilities at Rodale 
include project planning and management of orchard trials; experience in alternative 
pest management in apple production; D. Matthews-Gehringer, Entomology Project 
Leader; responsible for planning and conducting insect habitat studies at the Research 
Center; research experience in surveying plants for insect populations and monitoring 
the effects of intercropping, physical barriers, mulches, and botanical insecticides on 
insect populations. 


University of Vermont: Lorraine P. Berkett (Project Coordinator), Dept. of Plant and Soil 
Science, Hills Building, Burlington, VT 05405. State contact person and general 
organizer for Vermont portion of project; as project coordinator responsible for 
assembling project proposals, chairing meetings, and coordinating other LISA activities 
between the five member states; project expert on powdery mildew; expertise in preda- 
ceous mites affecting apples; responsible for control and assessment of strategies 
involving diseases, arthropods, pest management ground cover practices and the 
integration of these various components; responsible for extension/outreach activities. 
J.F. Costante, Dept. of Plant and Soil Science, project expert on pomology practices 
involving research assessments of cultivar/rootstock combinations, biological controls 
for apple replant disease, cultural harvest, storage, and marketing practices as well as 
related extension/outreach activities. 


University of Massachusetts: D.R. Cooley, Dept. of Plant Pathology, Amherst, MA 01003. 
Contact person and general organizer for Massachusetts portion of the project; editor 
and publisher of the newsletter; cooperator on summer disease research and post- 
harvest disease research; evaluation of disease on disease-resistant cultivars in MA; 
W.R. Autio, Dept. of Plant & Soil Sciences, project expert on post-harvest maturity 
and storage; horticulturist cooperating on groundcover effects on tree growth; 
responsible for fruit quality evaluation in MA; R.J. Prokopy, Dept. of Entomology, 
project expert on insect management in disease-resistant apples and integrated pest 
management; responsible for strategies for minimizing chemical use in controlling 
apple insects; cooperating in mite management studies in MA; W.M. Coli, IPM 


46 


Program Coordinator, Dept. of Entomology, studying groundcover and pesticide effects 
on mites and mite predators for development of biocontrol strategies; contributing and 
interfacing IPM resources with LISA in MA; C.R. Harper, IPM Agricultural 
Economist, Dept. of Agricultural and Research Economics, developing budgets and 
financial decision aids for growers considering planting disease-resistant cultivars. 


New Jersey: D.F. Polk, Rutgers Fruit Research and Development Center, IPM Agent-Fruit, 
Dept. of Agriculture and Resource Management, RD2, Box 38, Cream Ridge, NJ 
08514, contact person and general organizer for New Jersey portion of project; project 
expert on integrated pest management of fruit crops; in NJ, responsible for general pest 
management strategies, and insect and mite damage assessments; E.F. Durner, Dept. of 
Horticulture and Forestry, project expert in NJ on horticultural aspects of apple 
cultivars; in NJ, responsible for horticultural evaluations and for statistical analysis of 
data; J.C. Goffreda, Dept. of Horticulture and Forestry, tree fruit breeder, and director 
of the disease-resistant apple breeding program at Rutgers; responsible for evaluation, 
propagation, and distribution of new selections; W.P. Cowgill, Rutgers Cooperative 
Extension of Hunterdon County, 4 Gaunt Place, Flemington, NJ 08822, County 
Agricultural Agent-Hunterton County, Dept. of Agriculture and Resource Management 
Agents, coordinates the management of NJ research plots; responsible for grower 
liaison and grower education efforts in northern NJ; J.L. Frecon, Rutgers Cooperative 
Extension of Gloucester County, County Office Building, N. Delsea Drive, Clayton, 
NJ 08312, County Agricultural Agent-Gloucester County, Dept. of Agriculture and 
Resource Management Agents, project expert in NJ on disease-resistant cultivars; 
responsible for grower liaison and grower education efforts in southern NJ. W.H. 
Tietjen, Rutgers Cooperative Extension of Warren County, Dumont Administration 
Building, Rt. 519, Belvidere, NJ 07823, Fruit IPM Program Associate-Warren 
County, Dept. of Agriculture and Resource Management Agents, responsible for 
grower education and public relations efforts in Warren County. J.K. Springer, 
Rutgers Resource and Development Center, RD 5, Box 232, Bridgeton, NJ 08302, 
Dept. of Plant Pathology, project expert in NJ on apple diseases; responsible for 
disease control strategies and disease evaluations in NJ. 


New York: New York Agricultural Experiment Station, Geneva, NY 14456: D.A. Ro- 
senberger, Dept. of Plant Pathology, contact person and general organizer for New 
York portion of the project; project expert on summer diseases and postharvest 
diseases of apples; in NY, responsible for disease control strategies, disease damage 
assessments, and postharvest studies. R.W. Weires, Dept. of Entomology, project 
expert on chemical control of insects and mites; in NY, responsible for arthropod 
control strategies and arthropod damage assessments; R.C. Lamb, Dept. of Horticul- 
tural Sciences, plant breeder -- expert on horticultural aspects of disease-resistant apple 
cultivars; M.J. Fargione, Cornell University, Dept. of Natural Resources, Ithaca, NY 
14853; project expert on wildlife management and damage control; in NY, provides 
expertise and assistance in controlling deer and voles in experimental plantings; 

M. Castaldi, Regional Extension Specialist, Cornell Cooperative Extension Service; 


47 


project expert on micro-economic analysis of disease-resistant apple production 
systems; L.S. Willett, Dept. of Agricultural Economics; project expert on 
macroeconomics; W. Smith, Ulster County Cooperative Extension Fruit Agent, Ulster 
County Cooperative Extension, Highland, NY, 12528; responsible for grower liaison 
and grower education efforts in NY. 


Farmer Participants: 


New Jersey: K. Moriuchi, Fruit Grower, Moriuchi Farms Inc., RD2, Borton Landing Rd, 
Mooretown, NJ 08057; G. Mount, Fruit Grower, Terhune Orchards, 330 Cold Soil 
Road, Princeton, NJ 08540; E. Wright and M. Nelson, Fruit Growers, Fruitwood 
Orchards, P.O. Monroeville, NJ 08343, fruit growers who provide the land for 
research and demonstration plantings; provide the required commercial management 
for the establishment and maintenance of plantings; provide data on pest management 
and other needed inputs; and provide commercial perspectives on project objectives, 
cultivar acceptability, and marketing potential. 


New York: S. Clark, Fruit Grower, Sunshine Orchards, Box 183 Clarke’s Lane, Milton, NY 
12547; A. Hepworth, Fruit Grower, Hepworth Farms, Box 41, Route 9-W, Milton, NY 
12547; and L. Ryan, Fruit Grower, Breezy Hill Farm, Center Road, Staatsburg, NY 
12580; fruit growers who provide land for research and demonstration plantings on 
their farms; assist in establishing and maintaining plantings; provide commercial 
perspectives on project objectives, experimental designs, cultivar acceptability, and 
marketing strategies. 


Overview 


Apples are the most extensively grown fruit in the Northeastern US, approximately 
162,000 acres. Apple production requires very intensive management to produce high-quality 
fruit. Economical, effective pest management is a critical component in achieving profitable 
apple production. If the insects and diseases are not controlled, the apples can’t go into fresh 
market; they have to go into applesauce or juice at a much lower price, and profits plummet. 
Currently, apple production involves the use of pesticides and fertilizers at an annual cost of 
about $250 per acre for bearing orchards in the Northeast, though this cost varies greatly from 
year to year and from one orchard to another. Growers may apply up to twenty fungicide 
sprays per season in an attempt to prevent apple diseases. As pesticide costs continue to 
increase and as more pests develop resistance to pesticides, it is costing more and more for 
pest control that is doing less and less good. Public concern about pesticide contamination of 
food, ground and surface water, and other environmental damage is growing rapidly. It is 
absolutely vital that we find alternatives to pesticides. 


The objectives of this research project have been to develop low-input, sustainable 
apple production using disease resistant apple cultivars and IPM techniques. Investigators at 


48 


several universities (Universities of Vermont and Massachusetts, Rutgers and Cornell) plus the 
Rodale Institute formed a team to conduct this LISA project, coordinated by Lorraine Berkett. 
This team of scientists, educators, and farmers has successfully developed and implemented a 
long-term, comprehensive, multi-disciplinary, and multi-state research program involving an 
extensive network of researchers and farmers throughout the Northeastern region. 


Apple disease-resistant cultivars (DRCs) offer a biological alternative to fungicides. 
DRCs have been bred specifically for their resistance to apple scab, a major disease in the 
Northeast. Ecologically sound pest control strategies also must be developed for the insect, 
mite, disease and weed problems that will continue to exist after DRCs are planted. For the 
past two-and-a-half years the cooperators in this project have pursued a holistic approach to 
the development of a more sustainable production system using DRCs and horticultural and 
pest management research. The study has been expanded to include nineteen new plantings in 
the five cooperating states (Vermont, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York and 
Pennsylvania) to supplement the eight plantings which started this project. There are over 
4,000 trees and at least 38 named and numbered cultivars available for data collection. 


Rapid and effective information dissemination has also been a priority of this project 
as well. To meet this need, the project published two issues of the Northeast LISA Apple 
Newsletter, with 1,245 subscribers in 39 states and six foreign countries. While the use of 
DRCs will reduce the need for fungicides, growers still need to control insects, weeds, 
diseases, and mites. The main work in this project is to develop ecologically sound pest 
control strategies. Since many of these new strategies will be applicable to standard orchards, 
this work has broad implications. Consequently a Management Guide for Low-Input Apple 
Production has been written and published. Project team members have made 53 presenta- 
tions at grower and professional meetings or workshops. 


Recognizing that disease-resistant cultivars in the past have sometimes been highly 
successful in repelling diseases, but failed miserably in the marketplace, the project team 
established a consumer taste test at a Vermont supermarket. Consumer preference for the 
Liberty, one of the disease-resistant cultivars, was overwhelming. 


Objectives 


(1) Develop low-input, sustainable apple production systems in the northeast using disease- 
resistant apple cultivars and IPM techniques. 


Pesticides are one of the major purchased inputs in northeast apple production. 
Because of environmental and health concerns, consumers, processors, retailers, government 
officials, and neighboring landowners are all proposing that apple growers reduce pesticide 
use. Reducing pesticide use is critically important in the northeast where increasing 
urbanization has resulted in more people living adjacent to farm operations. Growers them- 
selves want to reduce their use of pesticides; they are very interested in using alternatives for 
environmental, health and economic reasons and because the loss of registrations of standard 


49 


pesticides and pest resistance to pesticides have left frightfully few chemical controls for apple 
pests. 


Fungicides represent a significant proportion of the pesticides applied to apples each 
year. Growers apply up to twenty fungicide sprays per season; eliminating just one 
application across the entire region would reduce the amount of fungicide applied by 
approximately 243 tons annually (based on the recommended rates of Captan). Most 
fungicides are applied to control apple scab and other diseases that could be avoided by the 
use of disease-resistant cultivars (DRCs). Incorporating DRCs into apple production systems 
would significantly reduce the need for fungicides and perhaps other pesticides as well. 
However, the horticultural strengths and weaknesses of DRCs must be clearly defined before 
commercial growers will risk planting large acreage to these cultivars. Cultivar selection is a 
crucial decision for an apple grower because the decision will impact the farm’s profitability 
for at least fifteen to twenty years. Factors that growers consider when deciding what 
cultivars to plant include winter hardiness; yield potential; fruit storage qualities, color, taste, 
and size; potential pest management problems; and marketability. We propose to speed the 
process of getting DRCs into large-scale production through a multi-state and multi-disciplin- 
ary cultivar evaluation and through rapid dissemination of research results. 


Use of DRCs will reduce the need for fungicides in apple production, but growers will 
still need to control insects, mites, weeds, and several important diseases including frog-eye 
leaf spot, fly speck, sooty blotch, bitter rot, white rot, and black rot. Therefore, we also 
propose to develop ecologically sound pest control strategies for these important biological 
factors that impact apple production. We may find that reducing fungicides favors certain 
beneficial predators or parasites which will aid in the biological control of other pests or that 
it may allow formerly minor disease problems from the bottom up (i.e., from no controls, to 
minimal or alternative practices necessary for profitability), we hope to reduce grower reliance 
on chemical controls. Since many of these new pest management strategies also will be 
applicable to standard orchards, the potential benefits and impact of this research are 
significant. 


The existing project participants are uniquely qualified to pursue the interdisciplinary 
research we are proposing. Many participants have been involved with IPM studies and have 
an appreciation for multi-disciplinary research. Most participants also have worked directly 
with growers in previous research or educational efforts, have knowledge of the real-life 
complexity of apple production, and are well-positioned to work with commercial growers. 
The participants have complementary areas of professional expertise and, over the past two- 
and-a-half years, have formed an effective working group. The north-south geographical 
spread of the project participants and the large variety of soil types, climatic factors and 
production orientations represented ensures that research results will have application for 
growers throughout the northeast. 


2) Provide economic analyses of low-input production systems and forecast impact on the 
northeast apple industry. 


50 


Again, cultivar selection is a crucial decision for an apple grower which will impact 
the farm’s competitiveness and profitability for many years. About $8,000 per acre will be 
invested before the trees become profitable, and it will take ten or more years to reach that 
point. Extensive changes in the apple cultivars grown in the northeast and in production 
practices will induce new economic issues for individual growers and the industry as a whole. 
Project economists have developed a standardized record-keeping system to use with low- 
input plantings and have begun to assess the economic state of the apple industry in the 
northeast. By incorporating both macro- and microeconomics into analyses, we will 
determine how low-input systems will impact individual farms and the entire industry. 


(3) Expedite research and information transfer on low-input apple production systems for 
the northeast. 


Growers and industry personnel are being constantly challenged to make economically 
and environmentally sound decisions that satisfy all the demands of a dynamic, ever-changing 
world. The daminozide (Alar) issue and the EBDC fungicide issue just underscore the rapid 
change that is taking place in the apple industry. Growers must have access to research- 
generated information that addresses the critical issues facing them and that will enable them 
to make intelligent decisions. 


In the first two-and-a-half years of the project, we have established an effective 
network of growers, researchers, extension and outreach personnel, consultants, regulators and 
laypeople concerned with low-input, sustainable apple production. We have developed and 
implemented an information delivery system that has been highly praised by all segments of 
the agricultural community. This effort will be continued and expanded to broaden the scope 
of the network. | 


Results to Date: 


During the past three years, we have planted more than 3,500 DRCs in 50 experiments 
at commercial and research orchards. We now have three years of data on tree 
establishment, nutrition, varietal response to different training systems, disease and 
climatic tolerance, and other important horticultural attributes. Many of these 
observations have been published or presented to fruit growers in various meetings and 
other forums. The actual plantings have also been visited by thousands of growers, 
providing a tangible demonstration of the feasibility of these varieties. 


Since apple trees do not produce marketable crops until the third of fourth year, we 
are only now beginning to generate the yield data which will determine whether these 
new varieties will be competitive with old standards like McIntosh and Delicious. The 
data we have gathered since 1989 indicate that several of the DRCs, for example 
Liberty and Nova Easygro, are very promising. The next three to seven years will 
provide definitive data for recommendation of the best DRCs and expedite their 
adoption by the industry. 


ot 


While it is too early to draw definitive or even tentative conclusions about these new 
apple varieties, several important trends appear to be emerging from continuing 
studies. They are: 


1. A few of the DRCs, especially Liberty, are likely to be as good or better overall 
than many conventional apple varieties, aside from their reduced fungicide costs. 


2. Fruit quality of DRCs varies considerably by region, as it does for other apple 
varieties. Taste and appearance of a given DRCs have differed greatly over the range 
of soils and climates included in our studies. 


3. The general horticultural management requirements of the DRCs appear not to 
differ substantially from conventional cultivars. 


4. Consumer acceptance of the DRCS has been positive and enthusiastic. 


5. The so-called summer diseases are likely to be a real problem with DRCs, 
especially in warm humid summers or regions. New management strategies will be 
required for these hitherto "minor" disease when apple-scab fungicides are 
discontinued, and we are already working to develop and test such strategies in our 
studies. 


6. Winter hardiness of wood and buds has been good in the DRCs, although a "test" 
winter with extreme low temperatures has not occurred during these studies. 


Project participants gave presentations about various facets of converting to organic wine 
grape production, including challenges of fungus, insect and weed control in organic 
production systems. 


Project Duration: Given the nature of the research and the crop, this is viewed as a long- 


term project of 7-10 years. We are currently requesting funds to continue this project 
from July 1, 1990 through June 30, 1992. 


Funding: SARE Funding: $635,700 1988-1992. ACE Funding: $160,000 in 1991. Matching, 


$817,468 


1993 SARE Grant Amount: $97,800 for one year. 
1993 ACE Grant Amount: $164,200 for one year. Matching: 


52 


1988-92 SARE Matching 
Organization Funds re 
University of Massachusetts $118,000 So 083 
Rutgers, State Univ. of NJ 105,500 oer is | 059 


NY State Agricultural Experiment Station 
“pine pomicnr 500 eee 945 


| Rodale Research Center Research Center ews ch boas 12468 246 err | 493 


University of Vermont 144,954 121,167 
Cornell University 66,000 90,760 
$635,700 $746,507 


LNE88-2: IMPROVING FARM PROFITABILITY BY EFFICIENTLY USING THE 
PASTURE RESOURCE 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


University of Vermont: William Murphy (Project Coordinator), Sheep Farmer & Agronomist, 
College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Dept. of Plant and Soil Science, Hills 
Building, Burlington, VT 05405-0082; conducts pasture production and management 
research and participates in farm walks and farmer workshops. James Welch, Animal 
Scientist & Farmer, conducts research on how much and what kind of concentrate 
should be fed to cows receiving all roughage from pasture; Nthoana Mzamane, 
Grassland Ecologist, conducts research on light relationships in pasture swards; 
Andrew Condon, Agricultural Economist, developing an economic model for incorpo- 
rating pastures into farm feeding practices to maximize net return; Sidney Bosworth, 
Extension Agronomist, developing a computer program for estimating pasture forage 
mass, and incorporating agronomic, animal, economic and farm management informa- 
tion into fact sheets and meetings for farmers; Stewart Gibson, Dairy Extension 
Specialist, incorporating information provided by researchers into individual and group 
meetings with dairy farmers, fact sheets, and a computer program to provide guidelines 
for balancing rations for lactating cows on pasture. 


West Virginia University: William Bryan, Agronomist, conducts pasture production and 


management research; Edward Prigge, Animal Scientist; collaborates in animal aspects 
of pasture research; Gerard D’Souza, Agricultural Economist, analyzes different 


53 


strategies for incorporating pastures into farm feeding programs to maximize net 
return. 


State University of New York, Syracuse: Daniel Dindal, Soil Ecologist, conducts research on 
pasture soil organisms. 


University of Massachusetts: Kent Fleming, Extension Economist, conducts pasture manage- 
ment research and provides information to farmers. 


University of New Hampshire: William Zweigbaum, Farm Management Specialist. 
Farmer Participants: 


Vermont: John and Brent Brigham, dairy farmers (1990, 1991), and Tammy and Mike 
Hanson, dairy farmers (1992), provide advice on research needs and management 
strategies and financial and labor data for economic analysis, evaluate results, cooper- 
ate in on-farm grazing research, and participate in Extension efforts, including a video 
and farm walks. 


Overview 


Permanent pastures in the northeast United States typically have low productivity, 
producing only about two tons of moderate-to-poor-quality forage per acre during a three- to 
four-month grazing season. A proven method exists that enables these kinds of pastures to 
produce four tons or more of excellent-quality dry forage per acre during a six- to seven- 
month grazing season. The method is controlled grazing management, as described by Andre 
Voisin in 1959. The Voisin method, also known as short-duration grazing, intensive 
rotational grazing, and rational grazing, has been used for many years in New Zealand and for 
nine years in Vermont. New Zealand’s highly productive and profitable agriculture depends 
almost entirely on permanent pastures that are grazed under controlled management. Voisin 
grazing management is a simple system of controlling grazing by dividing pastures into small 
areas (paddocks) that are grazed on a rotational basis, minimizing the waste of forage and 
protecting the plants from overgrazing. 


In contrast, many American farmers use a system of zero pasturing or year-round 
confinement feeding that involves large amounts of purchased feed and supplements, often 
resulting in low profitability. Feeding of livestock in confinement can cost six times as much 
as it does on well-managed pastures. First-year costs of materials, maintenance, and labor for 
controlled grazing management range from $1,500 to $2,000 for a 40-cow herd. Its use has 
returned $3.75 in benefits for each $1 invested by dairy farmers. 


This project proposes to assist farmers in the northeast in using Voisin grazing 
management and to study and refine the method for this region. It has been developed with 


54 


the active participation of dairy and sheep farmers, research scientists, Extension personnel, 
Soil Conservationists, and fencing industry representatives. 


Investigators at the University of Vermont determined through work done from 1989- 


1990 that: 

(1) The best method for estimating pasture mass was a bulk density rising plate, which 
was both inexpensive and easy to use; 

(2) Plants recovered from grazing quicker, and net dry forage yield was greater during 
both years under sheep grazing alone (5,857 kg/na in 1989; 8,777 kg/ha in 1990), 
compared to cattle-grazed treatments (4,000 in 1989 and 3,117 in 1990); 

(3) Sheep grazing increased soil levels of N and K, possibly reflecting more uniform dung 
distribution by sheep, compared to cows; 

(4) Soil compaction was greater under cattle grazing than under sheep, and probably 
influenced numbers of soil organisms and limited plant growth; 

(5) Soil CO, respiration was lower under cattle than under sheep; 

(6) Soil nematode numbers were three times greater under sheep than under cattle; 

(7) Cattle rejected forage around dung pats on 34% of the pasture area in 1989, and 40% 


of the area in 1990. 


Results from 1991 and 1992 include the following: 


O In studies that focused on the optimum grazing conditions for lactating cows, 
researchers found that in a grass/white clover pasture, cows should go into a 
fresh paddock when the forage is between six and eight inches tall, preferably 
after each milking. When the plants get much taller than six to eight inches, 
nutrients are wasted and taller plants start shading out others. 


O Post-grazing treatments such as harrowing or soil aeration are not needed if 
grazing is appropriate and soil texture is not conducive to excess compaction by 
livestock. 

fe) Grazing management can encourage the growth of white clover in the pasture. 

0) Supplements (based on estimates of cows’ dry matter consumption on pasture 


at 1.5 percent to 2.25 percent of body weight) increased milk production, but 
their cost exceeded the value of the additional milk. Further experiments are 
planned to determine at what level concentrates would boost milk production 


EP) 


without diminishing profits, and whether reduced supplements would affect 
cows’ body condition, breeding and milk production in the long term. 


0 The Hanson farm saved over $12,000 in feed costs by using Voisin-style 
grazing between late April and early November 1992. Similar savings were 
achieved at the John and Brent Brigham farm in 1991. The Brighams, of St. 
Albans, Vermont, were the on-farm cooperators in 1992. 


Results of the West Virginia experiments indicate that in general, more cattle are 
supported with more and better quality forage when the sward is grazed starting at a height of 
six inches to remove 75% of the available forage. 


The above information helps to understand the complex pasture-livestock interrelation- 
ship, which is essential for obtaining full potential benefits from feeding livestock on pasture. 


In seven additional experiments concerning supplemental protein feeding of cows 
grazing pasture at the University of Vermont, total milk production was 11% higher during 
feeding periods of a high rumen undegradable intake protein (UIP), compared to the low UIP 
feeding period. Milk protein production also increased during these periods, but milk fat 
percent did not change. If an inexpensive ration adjustment in UIP produces an 11% increase 
in milk production from cows on pasture, a major economic benefit is possible, making use of 
pastures by dairy farmers much more attractive. 


The financial effects of incorporating well-managed pastures into farm feeding 
programs are being studied using a representative sample of ten dairy farmers who are using 
controlled grazing management. Preliminary results indicate that net return to farmers’ labor, 
management, and interest is about six times greater for medium size Jersey herds on pasture 
and purchased winter feed ($47,628), compared to similar size herds under year-round 
confinement feeding with no pasture and all feed produced on the farm ($7,729). 


Two videos of approximately 30 minutes each have been produced by Perceptions, 
Inc., of Charlotte, VT, with introductions by Dr. Bill Murphy from the University of 
Vermont. The first one introduces pasture management and strives to motivate farmers to at 
least consider incorporating well-managed pastures into their feeding programs. The second 
video focuses on pasture forage utilization and controlling livestock with electric fencing. 


Topics under continuing investigation are the social organization and grazing behavior 
of cows in a well-managed pasture system; the actual amount of forage that cows eat 

on well-managed pasture; soil organisms in well-managed pastures; and the long-term 
effects of Voisin-style grazing on overall farm profitability. 


56 


Objectives 
(1) Determine sward dynamics, light relationships, net forage production, seasonal 
distribution, and effects of postgrazing grooming (harrowing, clipping, soil aeration) 
and manuring on white clover-grass swards, under various frequencies and intensities 
of dairy or beef cattle grazing. 


(2) Determine effects of supplementing high levels of ramen undegradable intake protein 
and additional energy on milk production of cows receiving all roughage from pasture. 


(3) | Determine soil biota populations, microcommunity structure, fertility levels, and 
compaction under controlled-grazed pasture. 


(4) Determine economics of incorporating well-developed, controlled-grazed pastures into 
dairy and beef farm feeding programs. 


Project Duration: Five years, ending Dec. 31, 1993. 
Funding: $537,265 SARE. Matching, $727,544. 


1993 SARE Grant Amount: $121,058 (funding to completion of project). 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Sa a ee reine of Vermont pormss a r 041 RTECS 163 
West | West Virginia University = University Fetter — cree 864 119, aan tle teen 


State University of NY, 
Serene Sere 840 48 ae 


| University of Massachusetts of Massachusetts eae 9% wehawrtl 23620, 520 12s 1p seoivealtel2sec) 


University of New Hampshire 5,000 5,000 
$537,265 $727,544 


LNE88-3: ROLE OF CEREAL GRAIN COVER CROPS IN NITROGEN MANAGE- 
MENT FOR THE CHESAPEAKE BAY REGION 


Major Participants: 


University of Maryland: Russell Brinsfield (Project Coordinator), Agricultural Engineer, Wye 
Research Institute, P-O. Box 169, Queenstown, MD 21658. 


57 


University of Delaware: William Ritter, Agricultural Engineer, Newark, DE. 
Pennsylvania State University: Les Lanyon, Agronomist, University Park, PA. 
Rodale Institute: James Morgan, Executive Director, Emmaus, PA. 

Overview 


Recently, there has been increasing concern about the impact of agricultural chemicals 
on groundwater resources. This is particularly true in the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay 
watersheds. One of the most prevalent issues is that of groundwater contamination with 
nitrate originating from soil fertility management practices. Nitrate in groundwater results 
from leaching of applied nitrogen, either directly or indirectly, and thus represents the loss of 
a resource required for crop production. For grain production of corn, recommended fertilizer 
rates are based on utilization efficiencies of approximately 60 percent, however, suboptimum 
growing conditions can reduce the percentage of applied nitrogen which is utilized by the crop 
to much lower levels. These inefficiencies have been recognized for some time but until the 
recent development of environmental issues, the unused portion of applied nitrogen was 
largely neglected. The development of agricultural management systems which focus on 
strategies for reducing the loss of nitrogen from the root zone must be considered. 


Historically, cover crops were used to reduce soil erosion, fix nitrogen, and provide a 
source of forage in integrated agricultural systems. Since 1945, the development of relatively 
inexpensive inorganic fertilizers, and the concurrent spatial separation of livestock and grain 
production, has caused a dramatic reduction in the use of winter cover crops. Although much 
of the recent research on cover crops has focused on the use of legumes to supply nitrogen for 
future grain crops, long before nitrogen was recognized as a problem in the environment, 
scientists had documented the ability of cereal grain cover crops to reduce the leaching of 
nitrate from the root zone. However, the successful integration of cereal grain cover crops 
into current cropping systems will require an understanding of the dynamics of cover crop 
nitrogen uptake and remineralization in order to minimize nitrogen losses to the environment 
while providing maximum benefit to following grain crops. The proposed project will bring 
together research, extension, and private agencies and farmers in a five-year coordinated 
effort. 


The project will be a cooperative effort between the University of Delaware, 
University of Maryland, Pennsylvania State University, and the Rodale Institute. Nitrate 
leaching under different cover crop management systems including dairy manure and forage 
production, poultry manure and irrigation, and continuous corn will be considered. Selected 
management practices will also be evaluated on two farms in Maryland, two in Delaware and 
two in Pennsylvania (total of six) to promote the use of cereal grain (rye) cover crops in 
nitrogen management. Results from the on-farm research and intensive plot research will be 
used to assess the economic impact of the different cover crop management practices on the 
farming system. 


58 


Objectives 


(1) Evaluate the management of cereal grain (rye) cover crops to reduce the leaching of 
nutrients to groundwater and to optimize nitrogen recycling on the farm. 


(2) Evaluate the economic impact of cereal grain (rye) cover crops on the farming system. 
(3) Develop on-farm research to promote the use of cereal grain (rye) cover crops as a 
tool for nitrogen management. 


Project Duration: 1988-1990 (funding for two years given in 1988) 


Funding: $150,000 in 1988. Matching, $111,576. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 


University of Maryland $44,900 $40,281 


Pennsylvania State 
University 35,184 15,256 


University of Delaware 34,916 28,163 
Rodale Institute 35,000 27,606 
Totals $150,000 NW Boe ide) 


LNE88-4: WHOLE-FARM IMPLEMENTATION OF ALTERNATIVE AGRICUL- 
TURE PRACTICES FOR FIELD CROPS 


(Revised 1/14/91) 

Major Participants: 

Western New York Crop Management Association Cooperative, Inc.: John R. Deibel (Project 
Coordinator), Manager, 21 South Grove Street, East Aurora, NY 14052, Phone: 
(716) 655-4353. 

Cornell University: Stuart Klausner; Jane Mt. Pleasant; Thomas Scott, Agronomy Depart- 


ment, Emerson Hall; Elson Shields, Entomology Department, Comstock Hall, Ithaca, 
NY 14853. 


59 


Extension: Bruce Tillapaugh, Erie-Wyoming Agronomy Agent, 401 N. Main St., Warsaw, 
NY 14569; Dale Dewing, Agronomy Agent, Parkside Dr., Ellicottville, NY 14731. 


Farmer Participants: 


New York: Harold Blesy, Blesy Farms, Henrietta Rd., Springville, NY 14141; David Cobo, 
Cobo Dairy Farms, Dutch Hill Rd., West Valley, NY 14171; William Feasely, 
Feasely Farms, Church St., Eden, NY 14057; Carl George, Jr., Car-Bu Farms, Maple 
Grove Rd., Delevan, NY 14042; Dan Handy, Handy Farms, Inc., 3655 Eldridge Rd., 
East Aurora, NY 14052; Richard Janiga, Rich-A-Lu Farms, Two Rod Rd., East 
Aurora, NY 14052; Donald Kreher, Jr., Kreher Poultry Farms, 5411 Davison Rd., 
Clarence, NY 14031; Michael Walker, Frank Walker and Sons, Sprague Hill Rd., 
Falconer, NY 14733; Edwin and John Zittel, 7226 Taylor Rd., Hamburg, NY 14075. 


Overview 


The Western New York Crop Management Association (WNYCMA) is a grower- 
owned, non-profit cooperative providing on-farm consulting services to 115 farmers on 30,000 
acres of field crops across seven counties in the region. Established in 1986, the program is 
designed to provide a complete service package resulting in the successful use of Best 
Management Practices on member farms, exclusively using land-grant-based recommendations 
for integrated pest management; on-farm nutrient management system; and cultural practices. 
Additionally the cooperative provides a most comprehensive crop enterprise data base 
program on each field in the program. Growers enrolled in this cooperative are presently 
implementing best management systems, and continue to explore new avenues to further 
develop systems which reduce dependence on chemically based inputs. This collective group 
also provides a working demonstration of the benefits, both economic and environmental, 
associated with alternative agriculture practices. A close working relationship with Cornell 
University and Cooperative Extension provides a mutual SREDENE CHC of information benefiting 
members and non-members alike. 


The WNYCMA participated in the LISA program’s 1988 project year, and success- 
fully established six on-farm demonstration projects. During 1990, the WNYCMA carried out 
another successful year of LISA activities, including a summer tour attended by 117 farmers 
and agency representatives, co-sponsored by Cornell University and several USDA agencies, 
geared to Integrated Crop Management and LISA demonstrations. 


Objectives 


Component 


(1) Continue to establish unique and applicable field-scale trials using selected low-input 
strategies and variations on Crop Management Association farms. 


60 


(2) Monitor crop development and measure seasonal progress through intensive scouting 
programs implemented by the CMA. 

(3) Measure yields, quality, and other factors and compare the practices using portable 
scales and/or small plot yield assessments. 

(4) Develop an economic analysis of each practice. 

Educational 

(5) Hold co-sponsored field days at the field locations to demonstrate these and other 
related practices. 

(6) Publish project findings and related information annually in booklet form for dissemi- 


nation to growers in the CMA, the local region, New York State, and the northeast. 


Whole-Farm Approach 


(7) 


(8) 


(9) 


(10) 


Develop a high-quality publication at the project’s conclusion, outlining the transitional 
factors necessary to changing management practices toward reducing chemical input 
dependency. 


Continue to develop slide presentation materials and other audio-visual products to be 
used by interested educators across the region. 


Continue disseminating practice recommendations through extension publications, 
CMA newsletters, and other available media. 


Further expand the development of quality private sector services which align 
themselves with sustainable management practices and adhere to the land grant system 
of research and education. 


Project Duration: June 1, 1990 - June 1, 1991 


Funding: $16,000 in 1988; $20,000 in 1990; $20,000 in 1991. Matching, $60,527. 


61 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Western NY Crop Management 
Association Coép, Inc. $56,000 $51,241 


Cornell University pessoal ane 9,286 
Totals $56,000 $60,527 


LNE88-5: COVER CROPS FOR NEW ENGLAND VEGETABLE GROWERS: ON- 
FARM RESEARCH, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND OUTREACH 


(Revised 4/3/91) 
Major Participants: 


New Alchemy Institute: Ralph DeGregorio (Project Coordinator), Research Director, East 
Falmouth, MA, Phone: (508) 564-6301, research, outreach. Mark Schonbeck, Ph.D., 
Researcher, research, outreach; David Simer, M.S., RPE, Researcher, Entomologist, 
research. 


University of Massachusetts: Stephen Herbert, Ph.D., Extension Agronomist, Dept. of Plant 
and Soil Sciences, Amherst, MA, research, outreach; Kent Fleming, M.A., IPM 
Economist, Dept. of Agricultural & Resource Economics, economic analysis. 


Maine Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association (MOFGA): Eric Sideman, Ph.D., 
Technical Services, Augusta, ME, research, outreach. 


University of Connecticut: Karl Guillard, Ph.D., Dept. of Plant Science, Storrs, CT, nitrogen 
analysis, statistics. 


Overview 


As integral components of sustainable agriculture, cover crops can reduce soil erosion 
and control weeds. In addition, legume cover crops such as hairy vetch will also reduce 
farmers’ inputs of nitrogen feritilizer. Legumes have been shown to be effective cover crops 
in warm climates, but perceived establishment and hardiness problems have limited their 
utilization in New England. 


These investigators have conducted cover crop experiments with lettuce, no-till sweet 
corn and no-till as well as conventionally tilled broccoli on New England vegetable farms. 


62 


Weed dry weights in lettuce plots were the lowest when a buckwheat/rye cover crop was 
used. A no-till, no-herbicide system of growing broccoli, where rye or oats plus a legume 
were established then mowed and left in place as mulch prior to planting the seedlings, 
yielded heads roughly three times as heavy and twice as large as did broccoli following rye 
alone. Mulches from the grass + legume cover crops released significant nitrogen (N) to the 
broccoli, as foliar N levels were higher than with rye mulch. Weed suppression was more 
effective with the grass + legume combination than with rye alone. 


When sweet corn was planted without tillage in fields where rye or rye + bigflower 
vetch were established and then mowed, the residue of rye + vetch resulted in significantly 
better early-season weed control and greater corn yield than did rye alone. Studies are in 
progress on optimum seeding and mowing dates for rye + hairy vetch cover crops. 


Education and outreach activities include a distribution of about 850 free cover crop - 
seed kits with inoculant and instructions, presentations at several conferences and events, and 
publication of results in two journals. In addition, two replicated experiments were imple- 
mented on seven commercial farms to help demonstrate to farmers the effectiveness of these 
cover cropping systems. 


Future experiments will compare these cover crop systems with conventional methods 
as well as study various mechanical and chemical management systems for cover crop species. 


Objectives 


(1) To conduct on-farm research onto cover crops which control erosion, suppress weeds, 
add nitrogen, and can be adopted by New England vegetable growers. 


(2) To collect on-farm economic data for use in enterprise budgets that compare the 
economics of conventional and alternative cover crops. 


(3) To extend information on cover crops to New England vegetable growers. 
Narrative 


This report summarizes progress by the New Alchemy Institute (NAI), the University 
of Massachusetts, the Maine Organic Farmers & Gardeners Association, and the University of 
Connecticut on cover crops to February 25, 1991. 


During the above period, NAI completed cover crop experiments with lettuce in 
Massachusetts and Vermont (three locations, no-till sweet corn in Massachusetts and 
Connecticut, and no-till broccoli in Massachusetts). We know of no other data on biologically 
fixed nitrogen from New England for the four winter annual legumes reported here. Evidence 
is also presented that vegetable yield, weed suppression, and total cover crop nitrogen 
associated with these legumes mixed with rye, can be significantly greater than with a rye 


63 


monoculture, which is the standard in New England. Also, rye + a legume had biomass 
greater than or equal to rye alone. Reduced tillage is promising, including mow-killing 
certain legumes, but invertebrate pests may be a problem due to absence of tillage, presence 
of mulch, or both. Though bigflower vetch contains less nitrogen than hairy vetch, it did not 
interfere with late-planted sweet corn and did reseed itself, especially where perennial weeds 
and vertebrate grazing were less severe. Our results also support the common practice among 
organic growers of using buckwheat as a summer cover crop. 


Experiments on time of seeding and mowing, nitrogen fertilizer equivalent of hairy 
vetch, and other factors have been completed. Results are being analyzed and manuscripts 
prepared; a progress report to USDA is due February 15, 1991. Vegetable crops have been 
overseeded with cover crops: this practice appears promising where vegetable crop spacing 
and population permit on fine-textured soils, or if seed is incorporated on coarser soils. On 
the Maine-Canadian border, thirteen hairy vetch strains from a number of countries have been 
planted. As a result of our efforts and those of the USDA, the US Germplasm Collection of 
hairy vetch is larger than in 1988, and includes one of the two hardiest strains mentioned in a 
report from the USSR. 


The nineteen NAI research and demonstration sites in five states in 1989 include a 
fairgound, four field-day sites, a seed company, and an Audubon working farm. About 850 
cover crop kits have been given away by NAI since mid-1988. Kits now consist of seed of 
the hardiest cultivar of hairy vetch and best inoculant known to us, rye seed, complete 
instructions with our phone number, and a self-addressed stamped postcard, all in a resealable 
plastic bag. Recipients are asked for their names, addresses and phone numbers so that we 
can follow up if cards are not returned. 


Two posters were made and displayed at several meetings and at NAI. At least 5,000 
people visit NAI each year; detailed signs and self-guided tours allow people to see our 
experiments and demonstrations; our workshops and publications are also available (our free 
catalogs were distributed at meetings and offer cover crop publications written by us and 
others). Video footage of our hairy and bigflower vetch experiments and interviews with NAI 
researchers was shot in 1989 by a LISA-funded filmmaker, and Canadian filmmakers visited 
to consult us about a video on the same subject. An hour-and-a-half workshop on weed 
suppression by cover crops and another on weed suppression in general which included cover 
crops, was videotaped, part of which is being sent to TV stations, and is being supplied to the 
public by a regional farmers’ organization. We responded to requests for information by 
mail, telephone (including calls collect to us), and from visitors. A number of presentations 
have been given and articles published, and ten interns/volunteers whose principal 
responsibilities were cover crop research/outreach were trained. 


We stimulated the bulk ordering of cover crop seed by a grower organization, and 
provided technical assistance for the second year, increasing local availability while reducing 
seed cost by about 10% (6 tons of cover crop seed, including hairy vetch, were cooperatively 
ordered in one year). We have worked to stimulate local hairy vetch and rye seed production 


64 


in ME, NH, MA and NY to reduce the high cost of shipping seed from the West. A review 
of relevant economic literature was completed and made available to the cooperating 
economist, who has prepared enterprise budgets for rye vs. hairy vetch. These budgets 
suggest hairy vetch nitrogen is cost-effective. Our work also suggests that savings in 
herbicide cost by using a hairy vetch and rye cover crop, mow-killing it, and planting no-till 
broccoli into it can be substantial. 


Project Duration: One year: June 1, 1990 - June 1, 1991 


Funding: $50,000 in 1988; $80,000 in 1989; $40,000 in 1990. Matching, $256,207. 


Sustainable Matching 
ae Agri. Funds Funds 

New | New Alchemy Institute Institute $103,000 $165,150 

University of Connecticut 3,780 11,352 

Maine Organic Farmers 

and Growers Association 11,260 a 125 

University of Massachusetts 51,960 Smack ane see 580 
$170,000 $256,207 


LNE88-6: NORTHEASTERN DAIRY FARM FORAGE DEMONSTRATION PRO- 
JECT 


Major Participants: 

Cornell Cooperative Extension: Joan Sinclair Petzen (Project Coordinator), Agriculture 
Program Leader, Cattaraugus County, P.O. Box 870, Ellicottville, NY 14731, Phone: 
(716) 699-2377. Dale R. Dewing, Cornell Cooperative Extension Associations of 
Cattaraugus and Chautauqua Counties. 

Seneca Trail Resource Conservation & Development: Edward Rayburn. 

Alfred State College: Ronald Stutzman. 


Overview 


Over the last ten years, intensive rotational grazing has been found to be a low-cost 
means of producing high-quality forage. The majority of pasture in the northeast, however, is 


65 


grazed continuously, resulting in sparse regrowth, many weeds, and low nutrient value due to 
overgrazing. This has led to a bad reputation for pastures as a whole. 


This project uses a whole-farm approach to assess the input reduction and profitability 
of a year-round forage management system which includes the use of intensive rotational 
grazing systems on small and mid-sized farms. Harvest management reduces the need for 
chemical weed control and fertilizers, and soil and water quality are enhanced because fewer 
acres need to be plowed. This reduces energy utilization and machinery costs, as animals are 
used to harvest about fifty percent of the forage. 


Specific achievements during the first two years of funding include development of: 
° techniques for effectively sampling fresh forage in the field for analysis, 


° a pasture plate for estimating tons of available forage dry matter from a pasture using 
a bulk height measurement, 


° a data base of fresh forage analysis results from two years for protein, energy, and 
minerals; "Dairy Pasture Ration Balancer" computer program with user’s guide, 


° a workshop format for introducing dairy producers to intensive rotational grazing, and 
° a seminar-tour about this grazing method for dairy professionals. 


Currently being completed are development of calibration equations for near infrared 
(NIR) analysis of fresh forage, whole farm economic case studies of four farms using 
rotational grazing techniques, and in vivo analysis of some fresh forage samples to determine 
rates of digestion. Future plans for this project include further refinement of the forage 
analysis and feeding recommendation components, as well as demonstration of forage harvest 
options for the stored forage component of a year-round farm system. 


Objectives 


(1) To expand the fresh forage analysis data base that has been developed by this project 
to improve its accuracy, and verify calibration equations for near infrared (NIR) 
analysis of fresh forage samples. Producer sampling and handling techniques for fresh 
forage analysis will be tested and verified. 


(2) To refine feeding management recommendations for supplementing dairy cows to 
maximize milk production and maintain body condition while using pasture. 


(3) To further farmers’ and agribusinessmen’s understanding of pasture and harvest 
management in order to maximize forage production and availability to the dairy cow 


66 


during the pasture season, and allow for adequate high-quality stored forage to be 
harvested in a timely manner for use during the winter. 


Project Duration: Three years 


Funding: $10,000 in 1988; $45,000 in 1989; $30,000 in 1990. Matching, $197,170. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Cornell Extension $60,433 $134,825 
Seneca Trail RC & D 24,567 8,155 


USDA/Soil Conservation 
Service 29,360 


24,830 
Totals $85,000 $197,170 


Demonstration Farms 


LNE88-7: WEED CONTROL IN REDUCED TILLAGE CROPPING SYSTEMS: USE 
OF OVERSEEDED COVER CROPS 


Major Participants: 


Rodale Research Center: Rhonda R. Janke (Project Coordinator), Agronomy Coordinator, 
Kutztown, PA 19530; Weed Ecologist; supervises agronomic research at Rodale and 
midwest on-farm research, will conduct research project at the PA site and supervise 
local on-farm research. 


Maine Cooperative Extension: Richard Kersbergen, Walter Quality Specialist, Belfast, ME 
04915; Extension Educator; will assist with research and demonstration on the Neves 
farm in Maine. 


Maine Dept. of Agriculture: Russell W. Libby, Research Director, Food & Rural Resources, 
Augusta, ME 04330; Agricultural Economist; will analyze economic data. 


University of Maine: Matt Liebman, Sustainable Agriculture, Orono, ME 04469; Weed 


Ecologist, coordinator, Maine Sustainable Agriculture Program, will conduct research 
projects at the University of Maine (Rogers Farm) and the Neves Farm. 


67 


Cornell University: Peter L. Marks, Section of Ecology and Systematics, Ithaca, NY 14853; 
Research/Administration; liaison to the Cornell University administration and adviser 
to this project. Charles L. Mohler, Research Associate, Ecologist; developed and 
conducts the research project in NY, assists with major weed censuses at Rodale and 
will coordinate data analysis. 


USDA/ARS: John R. Teasdale, Plant Physiologist, Weed Science Laboratory, Beltsville, MD 
20705; Weed Scientist; plans and conducts research at the Beltsville site. 


Farmer Participant: 
Anthony Neves, Freedom, ME 04941, grows dry beans and wheat. 
Overview 


Technologies are urgently needed by farmers for ecological weed control in cropping 
systems that allow them to conserve soil and water resources and observe conservation 
compliance guidelines. The principles tested in these unique systems include shading weeds 
with standing cover crops, smothering weeds with mown cover crops, and generally 
preempting the niches that weeds tend to fill when the ground is left bare, as in conventional 
cropping systems. In this project, collaborators at four locations spanning the climatic range 
of the northeastern US are performing experiments to determine the feasibility of controlling 
weeds in no-till and reduced-till cropping systems with the use of fall-sown cover crops. 


The work at Cornell University is focused on developing no-till grain and soybean 
production systems without the use of herbicides. The basic strategy is to use relay cropping 
to keep weeds suppressed by crop competition. They are also exploring methods for 
improving establishment of aerially overseeded crops. Preliminary results indicate that direct 
overseeding of winter grains into standing corn can approach commercial yields, even under 
less than ideal weather conditions. 


Although buckwheat is notoriously hard to establish by surface sowing, both pelletized 
and presoaked buckwheat seed established well. Unfortunately, subsequent growth was poor, 
apparently due to competition rather than to soil or weather conditions. 


Establishment success of aerial overseedings into corn and beans tends to be inconsis- 
tent between years and even from one part of a field to another. Several satellite trials run to 
test methods for improving establishment of oversown small grains and legume cover crops 
indicated that pelletizing the seed of buckwheat and spring barley (Birka) greatly improved 
the germination of both species in all watering regimes. Weed control by rye mulch was very 
good. 


In experiments conducted at USDA/ARS in Beltsville, MD, investigators found that 
planting corn in 15-inch rows rather than the standard 30-inch rows improved performance of 


68 


low-input treatments. Use of higher corn plant densities may be an effective safeguard 
against years when cool, wet soils predominate and can provide additional competition for 
weed suppression. 


Rye as a cover crop appears to suppress soybeans, dry beans, and corn. One of the 
highest-yielding treatments was corn no-till planted into hairy vetch (not significantly different 
from conventional treatments). Weather conditions and soil drainage properties play a large 
role in achieving success with cover crops. 


The Low-Input Reduced Tillage experiment at Rodale Research Center is attempting to 
combine what farmers are learning about reduced tillage, ridge tillage, and especially no-till 
(mow-sow) planting into cover crops with what has been learned about how to grow crops 
without purchased fertilizer or pesticides. Once the experiment has gone through one or two 
rotation cycles and the tillage systems are well established, this trial will be a valuable testing 
ground where agronomic questions can be answered about system feasibility, and energy and 
economic comparisons can be calculated from a realistic, multi-year data set. 


Objectives 


(1) Develop reduced-tillage systems without herbicide that provide adequate weed control, 
reasonable yields, and improved net profits for farmers. Such systems will eliminate 
risk of groundwater contamination from herbicides. 


(2) Use mulch and relay cover crops to significantly reduce the establishment of annual 
and perennial weed seedlings and the spread of perennial weeds from vegetative 
propagules. 


Project Duration: Three years 


Funding: $27,000 in 1988; $80,000 in 1989; $20,000 in 1990. Matching, $123,056. 


Sst cee een ee 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
$45,658 


69 


LNE88-8: IMPLEMENTATION OF ELECTRONIC DECISION SUPPORT TECH- 
NOLOGY FOR APPLE PRODUCTION 


Major Participants: 


Pennsylvania State University: Edwin G. Rajotte, Dept. of Entomology, Grant Administrator; 
Wesley Musser and Carolyn Sachs, Dept. of Agricultural Economics and Rural 
Sociology. 


University of Vermont: Lorraine Berkett, Dept. of Plant and Soil Science. 


University of Massachusetts: Daniel Cooley, Dept. of Plant Pathology, Extension Plant 
Pathologist. 


Rodale Research Center: Sarah Wolfgang, Project Leader/Orchard. 
Cooperators: 


Pennsylvania State University: Timothy Bowser, Dept. of Agricultural Economics and Rural 
Sociology; Robert M. Crassweller, Dept. of Horticulture; Larry A. Hull, Dept. of 
Entomology; James W. Travis, Dept. of Plant Pathology. 


University of Vermont: Patricia Downer, Dept. of Plant and Soil Science, Research Computer 
Specialist. 


Rodale Research Center: Kim Kroll, Agricultural Systems Modeler. 
Overview 


Agricultural production has evolved into a complex business requiring the accumula- 
tion and integration of knowledge and information from many diverse sources, including 
marketing, horticulture, management of insects, diseases and weeds, accounting and tax laws. 
Because high-quality information has not been easily accessible to growers when they are 
faced with important management decisions, decision-making on the farm has been 
surrounded by a high degree of uncertainty. To compensate, farm managers have increased 
inputs of chemical pesticides and fertilizers in an effort to minimize the variability in yield 
and quality that can occur from year to year. The price of this strategy, however, is reduction 
in potential profit and an increased threat to the environment because of the overuse of 
fertilizers and pesticides. 


This project proposes to create a mechanism to incorporate electronic decision support 


technology (initially Expert Systems) into commercial apple production in the northeast. 
Expert Systems and associated electronic technology have considerable potential for low-input 


70 


agricultural production in organizing and integrating information, knowledge and managerial 
skills necessary to profitably reduce purchased inputs. 


The Penn State Orchard Consultant (PSOC) has been developed to help apple growers 
make better decisions about production and pest management. It has recently been made 
available for sale to fruit growers in Pennsylvania through Pennsylvania State Cooperative 
Extension. The system integrates various facets of apple production and gives the apple 
grower the information necessary to reduce some purchased inputs by substituting high- 
quality, integrated information derived from three sources: state-of-the-art apple production 
and IPM knowledge; site specific, farm-level data; and weather records. A primary emphasis 
of this system is to decrease the detrimental environmental impacts associated with pesticide 
and fertilizer use as well as input costs, thereby improving farm profitability and reducing 
economic risk. 


A fieldtest and evaluation of the Expert System was conducted during eight months of 
the 1988 and 1989 growing seasons, using a pilot test group of twenty-six apple growers. 
During this time, the economic impact of the system on cooperators’ operations and net 
income was estimated using an economic survey questionnaire, and the results of this study 
are still being analyzed. 


This study has provided some preliminary evidence that changes in usual production 
practices occur as growers and users substitute information for purchased inputs, in this case, 
pesticides. It was also demonstrated that the substitution of information for inputs was 
stimulated by the Expert System, which enabled the grower or user to collect, integrate, and 
interpret the information rapidly. More work will need to be done at the first stage of the 
diffusion process if the Orchard Consultant is to become an effective tool for sustainable 
agriculture. Specifically, the diffusion agency must provide new educational programming for 
the growers on its application. 


Objectives 
(1) Expand and modify field evaluation of Expert System technology in Pennsylvania. 
(2) Analyze farm-level economic impacts. 
(3) Develop modules and modify existing modules for New England and organic produc- 
tion; to be performed by the Universities of Vermont and Massachusetts and the 
Rodale Research Center. 


Project Duration: Two years 


Funding: $55,000 in 1988; $55,000 in 1989. Matching, $79,990. 


71 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
$80,000 $74,511 


Totals $110,000 $79,990 


LNE88-9: ALTERNATIVE CROPPING SYSTEMS FOR LOW-INPUT AGRICUL- 
TURE IN THE NORTHEAST 


(Revised 1/14/91) 
Major Participants: 


Cornell University: Jane Mt. Pleasant (Project Coordinator), Agronomy Department, Ithaca, 
NY 14853, Soil and Cropping System Management, 60% Extension, 40% Research; 
as project coordinator, oversees field experiments, on-farm demonstrations/research, 
and extension activities in NY, coordinates NY and PA components of the project; 
Thomas Scott (Project Coordinator), Agronomy Department, Soil Fertility, 40% 
Research, 60% Teaching, former Extension Agronomist, oversees field experiments in 
NY and provides expertise on interseedings and cover crops in corn and soil fertility 
management; Gary Bergstrom, Plant Pathology Department, 70% Extension, 30% 
Research, Biology and Management of Field Crop Diseases, provides expertise for 
field experiments on crop diseases and their interactions with cropping systems, assists 
with development of extension activities in NY; Bill Cox, Agronomy Department, 70% 
Extension, 30% Research, Corn/Small Grain Management, provides expertise for field 
experiments on effects of tillage on crop growth and development, helps design and 
implement on-farm research in the state, assists with development of extension 
activities in NY; Paula Davis, Agronomy Department, Research; John Duxbury, Dept. 
of Soil, Crop and Atmospheric Sciences, Research; Elson Shields, Entomology Depart- 
ment, Applied Entomology, 70% Extension, 30% Research, provides expertise for field 
experiments on relationships between insect damage and cropping systems, assists with 
development of extension activities in NY; Stu Klausner, Senior Extension Associate, 
Agronomy Department, 55% Extension, 45% Research, Soil Fertility, provides 
expertise for field experiments on fertilizer and manure management, assists with 
development of extension activities in NY; Harold van Es, Agronomy Department, 


Te 


70% Extension, 30% Research, Water Management and Soil Conservation, provides 
expertise for field experiments on effects of cropping systems on soil physical 
properties, assists with development of extension activities in NY; Keith Waldron, IPM 
Coordinator, Dairy-Field Crops, Comstock Hall, provides pest management expertise 
for development of extension activities in NY; William Waltman, Senior Extension 
Associate, Agronomy Department, provides expertise in relating soil properties to crop 
growth and development in field experiments, Soil Interpretations and Land Use; 
Richard Zobel, Research Plant Geneticist, USDA, Agronomy Department, Root 
Genetics and the Soil Environment, provides expertise for field experiments on soil 
environment/root relations (Steering Committee member). 


Western NY Crop Management Association Cooperative: John Deibel, Manager, 21 South 
Grove Street, East Aurora, NY 14052, represents farmers’ interests in research and 
extension projects, designs and implements on-farm demonstrations in Erie- Wyoming 
Counties. 


Cornell Cooperative Extension: Agents represent farmers’ interests and concerns and help 
implement on-farm demonstrations in their respective counties. Tom Kilcer, Field 
Crops Agent, Rensselaer County, County Courthouse, Congress and 2nd Streets, Troy, 
NY 12181; Jeff Miller, Field Crops Agent, Oneida-Herkimer Counties, P.O. Box 271, 
Herkimer, NY 13350, also helps design on-farm demonstrations; Jim Capron, Field 
Crops Agent, Wayne County, 480 N. Main Street, Canandaigua, NY 14424; Mark 
Brown, Agricultural Consultant for Empire Agri-Services, Newark, NY, also helps 
design on-farm demonstrations; Elaine Dairymple, Field Crops Agent, Schuyler 
County, Rural-Urban Center, 208 Broadway, Montour Falls, NY 14865, also helps 
design on-farm demonstrations; Bruce Tillapaugh, Field Crops Specialist, Erie- 
Wyoming Counties, 401 North Main Street, Warsaw, NY 14569, represents farmers’ 
interests and needs in research and extension projects, coordinates on-farm demonstra- 
tion/research in Erie- Wyoming Counties. 


Rodale Research Center: Rhoda Janke, Agronomy Coordinator, RD #1, Box 323, Kutztown, 
PA 19530, Agronomy, Weed Science, oversees cropping systems research at Rodale 
and coordinates on-farm research in PA. Steve Peters, Agronomy, implements field 
research in PA. 


Pennsylvania State University: Wesley Musser, Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology, 
Weaver Building, University Park, PA 16802, 75% Research, 25% Teaching, Farm ~ 
Management and Finance and Natural Resource Economics, provides economic 
analysis of field experiments and on-farm demonstration/research; Sprio Stefano, 
Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology, 75% Research, 25% Teaching, Produc- 
tion Economics, Quantitative Methods and Natural Resource Economics, provides 
economic analysis of field experiments and on-farm demonstration/research. 


73 


Farmer Participants: 
Provide input (ideas) and sites for on-farm trials. 


New York: Ed Gates, Box 2, Montour Falls, NY 14865; Warner Luenberge, Rt 26, Oriskany 
Falls, NY 13425; Norman Vaill, Poplar Ridge, Aurora, NY; Robert Lannon, field- 
scale trials. David Shaul, Box 5, Fultanham, NY 12071, represents farmer’s interests 
and concerns in design of research and extension projects, provides site for on-farm 
research; Calvin De Golyer, Dairy Farmer, Table Rock Farms, 5554 De Golyer Road, 
Castile, NY 14427, represents farmers’ interests and concerns in extension and 
research components of the project, designs and provides site for trials on-farm in 
Wyoming County. 


Pennsylvania: Kenny Gehringer, RD #2, Box 243, Kutztown, PA 19530; Gordon Gruber, . 
RD #1, Kutztown, PA 19530. 


Overview 


Continuation of an ongoing LISA extension and applied research program is proposed 
to provide farmers with crop production practices that reduce chemical inputs, and conserve 
energy and natural resources while sustaining agricultural profitability. Cooperating 
institutions are Cornell University, Rodale Research Center, Pennsylvania State University and 
USDA/ARS. Field experiments in New York and Pennsylvania provide the foundation for an 
extension program and an interdisciplinary research effort in low-input agriculture. 


The research program consists of ongoing long-term experiments in New York and 
Pennsylvania that provide data for the extension program. The experiments concern cropping 
systems based on alternative practices. These experiments allow evaluation of the effects of 
alternative systems on nutrient utilization, crop growth, the soil-root environment, pest levels, 
soil cover and farm profits. 


The extension program consists of: 1) field-scale trials in which conventional practices 
are compared with alternative practices; and 2) an educational program directed at farmers and 
extension agents which presents information from past and ongoing research that can be used 
in sustainable cropping systems. 


Funding is requested for an additional three years in order to develop a significant data 


base from the on-farm trials and to allow the long-term experiments to complete one crop 
rotation cycle. 


Objectives 


The overall objective is to develop an extension and applied research program that 
provides farmers with viable crop production practices that reduce off-farm inputs while 


74 


maintaining productivity and conserving the natural resource base. Considerable research data 
on individual components of reduced-input systems (i.e. tillage, manure management, 
interseeding and cover crops) is available, but research integrating these practices into a 
cropping management strategy is lacking. Extension programs have not been developed to 
present low-input systems to farmers. 


Specific objectives of the extension program are to: 


(1) 
(2) 


(3) 
(4) 


Establish field-scale trials comparing conventional with low-input practices; 


Review, consolidate and extend to farmers and county extension agents information 
from past and ongoing research on alternative cropping systems which maintain net 
farm income; 


Continue field-scale trials comparing conventional with low-input practices; and 
Review, consolidate and extend to farmers and county extension agents information 


from past and ongoing research on alternative cropping systems which maintain new 
farm income. 


Specific objectives of the research program are to: 


(5) 


(6) 


(7) 


Determine effects of alternative cropping systems under several tillage, weed control, 
manure and cover crop practices on nutrient utilization, crop growth, and changes in 
soil cover, pest levels, and the soil-root environment; 


Utilize information on N dynamics within different cropping systems to maximize the 
supply of N to crops while reducing losses from the soil-plant system; and 


Evaluate effects of alternative cropping systems on transitional and steady state farm 
income for representative farms. This research is intended to increase our under- 
standing of cropping practices and the mechanisms of their interactions so that we can 
improve the efficiency and sustainability of cropping systems. Results from this 
research with implications for additional research outside the scope of this project are 
and will be thoroughly explored by these cooperators in concomitant research funded 
by other sources. 


Project Duration: Four years 


Funding: $60,000 in 1988; $80,000 in 1989; $100,000 in 1990; $71,152 in 1991. Matching, 


$504,278. 


7D 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 


Cornell University $202,190 $361,956 


Rodale Research Center | 66,239 61,524 


Pennsylvania State 
University 42,723 79,798 


Totals $311,152 $504,278 


LNE88-10: DEVELOPMENT, EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF LOW- 
INPUT SYSTEMS FOR EASTERN VINEYARDS 


Major Participants: 


Cornell University: David M. Gadoury (Project Coordinator), Dept. of Plant Pathology, NY 
State Agriculture Experiment Station, Geneva, NY, 14456, Phone: (315) 787-2328. 
R.C. Pearson and R.C. Seem, Dept. of Plant Pathology; R.M. Pool, Dept. of 
Horticultural Sciences; T. Henick-Kling, Dept. of Food Science and Technology; T. 
Dennehy and J. Nyrop, Dept. of Entomology. 


Pennsylvania State University: M.C. Saunders, Dept. of Entomology; J.W. Travis, Dept. of 
Plant Pathology; C.W. Haeseler, Dept. of Horticulture. 


Overview 


’ This proposal addresses the need to reduce costs in the three most expensive aspects 
of grape production in the northeast region: disease and insect management, pruning, and 
ground cover management. Previous work by the various cooperators has demonstrated that 
substantial savings can be made in all of these areas. Major reductions in seasonal fungicide 
use have been achieved in experiments involving the use of dormant treatments to destroy 
overwintering pathogens. The use of insect mating hormones (pheromones) has been shown 
to be effective in controlling grape berry moth in certain vineyards without the use of insec- 
ticides. Mechanical pruning and minimal hand pruning have greatly reduced labor costs in 
these operations. Finally, new approaches to ground cover management have eliminated or 
greatly reduced the need to till vineyards. The experiments outlined in this proposal are 
designed to provide the critical information that will allow the most promising grape 
production strategies to be combined into a truly low-input system for grapes in the north- 
eastern United States. 


76 


— SS SS Se ea aS 3 = 
‘ i e ‘ onaeerable ete 
s'« i . — } ae) 4 1. = 
‘ iyqorases Ct eal i Alien ue ’ - 
~~ ~ "7 . . Sd ad line! q@= © th ? iy * : 
072 sate Ra eee: nn eter iw ache 5 timemneterbde lg ats 
| 7 ) : 
bits dowseall 


’ uP { Sighz nitav} 2409 
. ' a 


: virervin 
- a - LO ct I AN ne Tus "= aa 
-@ 
. 77 = oe aa a 
O08 r 
it 
TAO MOITATY file) CVA AOTTAUIAYS TUSMIGTIVaG sree 
ih Few (hi LA aM FA (phate TMMbs 
TD Re Se ee 
: 7 cy 
i : s “Ge” De 
‘as a) toagord) ci) .M bivefl. :vtheeevinl) fea 
(ei ati! YM wo) seme? inmemoed oudigongA siege 


eee tit unt mC wet OF bas pom 2 
tw ) 2990 soil M72 rancid imetiooinell ; 
yigns a cy eridy' \c ti Agianee Yes 

} ws ¢ ie ef 
: bioukoGoe wbewet sai onhaerio ofeté- alas 


we to qe] olen WoO pepdloiiet wraal 


; P we » § 
‘e \ : n 4g ‘ 7 sn Fee '@ A 


= 


“" 


ronan evignogy 3 Mpet std od a) 2am pambo ob lmercndlt aaaoaihe leona nea 
BBO MAY! OR Le Sr eine nahaieainal ae 
) Q man, kul ol g 199. qUOnY @f “Adami 1 RRNA 
1s hata 20 ply eRe ae ee blah) spare od woseSniv Doda 
, bret —s m7 recited.) 224 Sau score ls ss F al ecw aa « cheseericictouhs mm 
aver: nsod sal \(eonomajalop 2ongtied, pales tanh ee fh came ooinciare 
“youl age AP Ae ORiY FLATT - dom Vite Je eeu yitillodnce at 9 iv aegis 
Oi 2ed3 1908! Deonbe yom wad arsint hed lsqinin bos griteng 'scinadowt 
1) Aedes 2 dnainpueaem vavo0 trwoxa o)sadoaonygs well were 
Sth jeer it of Deaton eterpiril hog oT 2breyenty lit oF a vt 
{ ; “4 weeren. | ack i Bi: mryite f yi 4%) eal NOE Kg eos 
hi rom oi) fH! EMGRT.: 101 cosi2y2 iar Toots ¢. iy 8 rpbart Landes 


Objectives 


(1) Refine the technique of using dormant eradicant sprays, thereby making it an effective, 
practical method to replace or augment seasonal fungicide sprays. 


(2) Conduct large-scale demonstrations of the effectiveness of the grape berry moth 
pheromone and compare the effectiveness of the GBM pheromone with that of 
conventional insecticides. 

(3) Illustrate that secondary pests seldom cause economic damage to processing grapes. 

(4) Develop an optimal vineyard design and management plan for low-input systems. 

(5) Generate and deliver a weather forecast with a high spatial resolution (1 km) to be | 
used for local management decisions on pest development, cultural management, and 
timing of pesticide applications. 


Project Duration: Two years 


Funding: $40,000 in 1988; $39,000 in 1989. Matching, $113,520. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 


Cornell University $46,865 $98,524 


Pennsylvania State 
University 527135 14,996 


$79,000 $113,520 


LNE88-11: TAKING CHARGE: STRATEGIES FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICUL- 
TURE IN THE NORTHEAST (VIDEO PRESENTATIONS) 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


Rodale Institute: James 0. Morgan (Project Coordinator), Vice President and Executive 
Director, 222 Main Street, Emmaus, PA 18049; Rob Roy Frederick, MD. 


el 


Cooperators: 

Connecticut: Steve Kaffka, Sunny Valley Foundation, New Milford, CT. 
Delaware: Joanne Whalen, Extension Agent, Dover, DE. 

Maine: Matt Liebman, Sustainable Agriculture Specialist, Orono, ME. 


Maryland: Robin Haggie, Chesapeake Wildlife Heritage, Easton, MD; Garth Youngberg, 
Institute for Alternative Agriculture, Greenbelt, MD. 


Massachusetts: David Ferro, Extension Entomologist, Amherst, MA; Ron Prokopy, Extension 
Entomologist, Amherst, MA. 


New York: Martin Culik, Extension Agent, Canandaigua, NY; Judy Green, Alternative 
Agriculture Specialist, Ithaca, NY; Mike Kane, President, NOFA-NY, Port Crane, NY. 


Vermont: Bill Murphy, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT. 
Farmer Participants: 


Pennsylvania: Bob Anderson, V.P., Walnut Acres, Penn’s Creek, PA; Murray McJunkin, 
Grain and Hog Farmer, Bellefonte, PA. 


Vermont: Austin C. Cleaves, Dairy Farmer, East Montpelier, VT; Paul Harlowe, Vegetable 
Grower, Bellow Falls, VT. 


Massachusetts: Maurice Tougas, Fruit/Berry Grower, Northborough, MA. 
Overview 


Experience has shown that farmers are reluctant to attempt a transition to a lower-input 
method of farming unless they have the opportunity to study other farmers’ methods in a 
firsthand manner. Travel to a wide variety of sites where sustainable agriculture systems have 
been implemented is impractical for most farmers. We propose to make use of video 
technology to bring many farmers into contact with a wide range of methods. The material 
presented will be the firsthand experiences of farmers, findings from farm-based or farm- 
simulated research projects throughout the northeast, and the perceptions of various low-input 
specialists within the agricultural community. An accompanying 12-page study guide will be 
prepared to provide farmers with a distillation of the options presented in the video and with a 
list of additional sources of information. The videos will be available for distribution by 
March 1, 1990. 


78 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


(5) 


(6) 


Objectives 


Use video technology to offer northeastern farmers encouragement, ideas and reliable 
information about making a transition to a lower input system. 


Address separately the needs of northeastern farmers of two distinct kinds: a) the 
large-scale field crops and/or livestock farmer, and b) the high-value fruit, vegetable 


and ornamental growers. 


Address in separate, sequential programs two distinct needs for each of the two kinds 
of farmers: a) encouragement and b) reliable information. 


Complement the motivational and informational role of the videos by providing a 
simple study guide that will assist in the farmers’ decision-making process. 


Create an avenue for personal assistance by providing the viewer with an address and 
telephone number for additional advice and information. 


Distribute the video presentations and the study guides through multiple outlets for 
maximum effective coverage of the farming community. 


Results 


This project produced six videos that profile the progress farmers have made toward 


sustainable agriculture. The series, released in 1992, documents the methods farmers have 
developed to reduce or eliminate the use of purchased inputs. Photographed during the course 
of an entire growing season, the series was produced with the help of nearly 200 farmers and 
other experts. It was shot in a 12-state area in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of 
the U.S. 


There are six videos in all: "Field Crops," "Rotational Grazing," "Vegetables," "IPM 
for Vegetables & Small Fruits," "IPM For Apples," and "High-Value Marketing." Each 
runs for approximately 30 minutes, and features audio and video footage almost 
exclusively of farmers and farm-field operations. 


Accompanying the series is a "Resource and Viewing Guide" that provides basic 
background on the subject matter of each individual video. Together, the videos and 
printed guide are aimed at providing an introduction to sustainable agriculture for 
farmers, researchers, policy makers, Extension staff and other interested people. 


A goal of the videos was to offer northeastern farmers encouragement, ideas and 
reliable information about making a transition to a lower-input system. The comments 
and advice focus almost exclusively on switching from chemical-intensive production 
methods to those relying on minimal or zero purchased chemicals. 


ys 


They address separately the needs of northeastern farmers of two distinct kinds. "Field 
Crops" and "Rotational Grazing" are geared to large-scale agronomic crop and/or 
livestock farmers, while "Vegetables," "IPM for Vegetables & Small Fruits," "IPM For 
Apples" and "High-Value Marketing." serve growers of horticultural crops. 


The farmer comments provide practical, how-to information as well as the kind of 
encouragement and inspiration borne of first-person experience. Comments from 
researchers, Extension staff and other technical experts strengthen the scientific 
reliability of the message. 


Rodale and Rooy Media, which produced the videos, are working to distribute the 
video presentations and the study guides through multiple outlets for maximum 
effective coverage of the farming community. In addition to meeting the grant 
requirements for complimentary distribution of the videos, Rodale Institute and Rooy 
Media have teamed up to promote them to many audiences. Rodale Institute 
advertises the videos periodically to the 50,000-plus readers of its national farm 
magazine, The New Farm. The Institute also promotes the videos in direct-mail 
marketing efforts to its 23,000 book customers. Rooy Media prepared an attractive 
brochure about the videos and mailed it to 11,000 professors, librarians, high school 
teachers and Cooperative Extension personnel. 


Project Duration: Two years 


Funding: $10,000 in 1988; $60,000 in 1989. Matching, $153,468. 


Sustainable Matching 
Scere eae tae eT Funds —— unds 


| Rodale Institute = Institute | $70,000. 000 | $153,468 | 468 


$70,000 $153,468 


LNE89-12: RUMINANT ANIMAL PRODUCTION USING TYFON FORAGE BRAS- 
SICA 


(3/12/91) 
Major Participants: 


University of Maine: Mary Wiedenhoeft (Project Coordinator), Agronomy, Dept. of Plant and 
Soil Science, Orono ME 04469. Barbara Barton, Manager of Dairy Research, Purina 


80 


Mills, Inc., St. Louis, MO; Robert Hough, Assistant Extension Educator and Livestock 
Specialist; Rupert Stafford, Assistant Agronomist. 


University of Connecticut: Karl Guillard, Assistant Professor in Residence, Agronomy, 
Stoors, CT 06268. 


USDA/Soil Conservation Service: Phil Burns, Economist; Christopher Jones, Conservation 
Agronomist, graduate student. 


Farmer Participants: 
Connecticut: Dave Albert, Farm Manager, Sugar Hill Farm, Colebrook, CT. 


Maine: David DeGrandpre, Farm Manager, Wolfe’s Neck Farm: Coordination of projects 
and Small Farms Field Day; Janet Perry, sheep farmer, Ashland, ME: Growth trial 
with market lambs; Mark Russell, dairy farmer, Litchfield, ME: Growth trial with 
dairy (Jersey) heifers; Tom Settlemire, sheep farmer, Brunswick, ME: Project design, 
trial evaluating body condition of ewes prior to and after breeding, information 
dissemination, evaluation of project results; Darel and Sally Smith, dairy farmers, 
Bradford, ME: Growth trial with dairy heifers. 


Overview 


The major costs to livestock operations in the northeast are the purchase, production 
and handling of feed. Grazing is the most economical form of feed acquisition on most 
farms. By growing and utilizing greater quantities of locally produced, high-quality forages, 
livestock production costs can be reduced without compromising productivity, thus increasing 
on-farm profit and sustainability. Brassicas can supply additional or supplemental forage, thus 
extending the grazing season in northern latitudes. When integrated into existing forage 
systems, Brassica crops have the potential to reduce: 1) the amount of purchased concen- 
trates, 2) stored winter forage that needs to be produced or purchased, 3) harvesting costs and 
labor by allowing the animals to harvest the forage, and 4) costs and labor associated with 
manure disposal. 


Tyfon, a Chinese cabbage-turnip hybrid, recently has gained considerable attention for 
use as a pasture crop in commercial livestock operations. To integrate Tyfon into existing 
forage systems in the northeast, farmers need additional information on the nutritional 
limitations of this crop and its effects on animal production and economic profitability. 
Reductions in herbicide inputs and soil erosion will also add to improved on-farm sus- 
tainability of northeast farms that can integrate Brassicas into their present forage system. 
Progress Report 1991 


To determine the economic feasibility of grazing Tyfon interseeded with perennial rye 
grass and the potential for reducing soil erosion. 


81 


A feeding trial using 30 spring lambs was conducted during the summer and fall 
months of 1990. Treatments consisted of: 1) a late spring seeding of Tyfon and perennial 
rye grass with summer and fall grazing, 2) a late summer seeding of Tyfon and perennial rye 
grass with a single fall grazing, and 3) a control group, where animals grazed a grass/legume 
pasture in the summer and were feed conserved hay from the pasture in the fall. When the 
lambs were not grazing the Tyfon/p. rye grass pasture, they were rotationally grazing the 
grass/legume pasture. Tyfon was seeded at a rate of 3.5 lb/A on June 22 and August 10. 
Perennial rye grass (Bastion) was seeded at the same time as the Tyfon at a rate of 15 1b/A. 
All 30 lambs began grazing the grass/legume pasture on May 22. 


On August 24, the first flock, which was composed of twelve lambs, was allowed to 
graze the Tyfon/p. rye grass pasture seeded on June 22 (64 days after planting). Total 
herbage was 2.24 t/A (dm), 81% from Tyfon, 0.9% from p. rye grass, and 18.1% from weeds. 
After 40 days of grazing the twelve lambs were returned to the grass/legume pasture for 36 
days. These twelve lambs were then returned to the Tyfon/p. rye grass pasture to graze the 
regrowth for an additional 25 days. Regrowth herbage yielded 0.85 t/A (dm), 96% from 
Tyfon, 0.8% from p. rye grass, and 3.0% from weeds. This system resulted in a grazing 
season of 195 days. Beginning on October 11, the second flock of lambs, which was 
composed of nine lambs, rotationally grazed the grass/legume pasture for 142 days and then 
were allowed to graze the Tyfon/p. rye grass seeded on August 10 (63 days after planting). 
The late summer seeded Tyfon/p. rye grass herbage was grazed for 36 days, resulting in a 
grazing season of 178 days. The pasture yielded 1.78 t/A (dm), 63% from Tyfon, 9% from 
rye grass, and 29% weeds. The last flock of lambs, which was composed of eight sheep, 
rotationally grazed the grass/legume pasture for a total of 178 days. 


Animal weight and body condition scores were taken prior to and after grazing for all 
animals. Preliminary results showed 
that the lambs that grazed the Tyfon/p. rye grass twice had higher average daily gain values 
followed by the lambs pastured on the single-grazed Tyfon/p. rye grass pasture and the 
grass/legume pasture. However, the gains were not statistically significant. The grazing 
season was significantly longer for those lambs that grazed the Tyfon/p. rye grass twice; nine 
out of twelve lambs achieved the target weight of 100 pounds with grazing. In the treatment 
which involved two grazings of the Tyfon/p. rye grass pasture, the forage provided 89.4 
animal unit days per acre while the treatment which involves only one grazing of the Tyfon/p. 
rye grass provided only 37.9 animal unit days per acre. 


For the 1990-1991 winter the early seeded Tyfon/p. rye grass pastures had 51.8% 
ground cover while the later seeded Tyfon/p. rye grass pasture had 74.5% ground cover. The 
difference was due to a better stand of perennial rye grass for the second seeding compared to 
the first seeding, 29% and 6.8%, respectively. Quality analysis of the forage and development 
of an economic budget are still in progress. 


Objectives 


(1) Determine the intake, digestibility, and subclinical health effects of a Tyfon-based 
ration as influenced by various levels of hay roughage. 


(2) Determine the growth, feed efficiency, carcass quality traits, and subclinical health 
effects of lambs fed diets containing varying proportions of Tyfon and hay. 


(3) Determine the consumer acceptance of milk from dairy cows fed Tyfon. 


(4) Determine the potential of establishing Tyfon, via no-till, into pastures without 
herbicides and the N fertility requirement in this situation. 


(5) Determine the economic feasibility of grazing Tyfon interseeded with perennial rye 
grass and the potential for reducing soil erosion. 


Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $85,000 in 1989. Matching, $148,957. 


Sustainable Matching 
—.... SR 0 Funds = eer unds 


| University of Maine of Maine [eel 180 [ee | pall 


University of Connecticut 34,820 79,680 
$85,000 $148,957 


LNE89-13: WINTER COVER CROPS FOR CORN PRODUCTION IN THE NORTH- 
EAST: N BALANCE AND SOIL MOISTURE STATUS 


(Revised 4/14/93) 

Major Participants: 

University of Maryland: A. Morris Decker (Project Coordinator), Forage Management, 
Agronomy Department, College Park, Maryland, MD 20742, Phone: (301) 405-1321. 
M.S. MclIntosh, Statistics; B.R. James, Soil Chemistry; F.R. Mulford, Farm Manager; 


R.R. Weil, Soil Fertility; K.C. Conover, Beltsville Facility, Central Maryland R & E 
Center; A.J. Clark, technician; Wayne Shaff, Wicomico County extension agent. 


83 


USDA/Agricultural Research Service: J.J. Meisinger, Beltsville, MD. 


Farmers: Robert Ellis, Salisbury, MD: Will evaluate crimson clover winter cover on twenty 
acres; Calvin Sherman, Salisbury, MD: Will evaluate crimson clover winter cover on 
nine acres; Norman Brittingham, Pittsville, MD: Will evaluate hairy vetch winter 
cover on twelve acres. 


Overview 


Winter annual legumes can provide most or all of the N required by no-tillage corn. 
Small grain covers can recycle more unused fertilizer nitrogen (FN) than legumes, thus 
reducing potential for leaching and groundwater contamination, but the high C:N ratio of 
cereals can lower N availability to subsequent crops. When spring rainfall is low, cover crops 
can deplete soil moisture and jeopardize corn germination and early growth. This project will 
evaluate the management of hairy vetch, cereal rye and vetch/rye mixtures in cover crop-corn 
systems in terms of cover N production, N recycling, groundwater quality and soil moisture in 
order to optimize profits without damage to the environment. Research plots will be 
established at Maryland Coastal Plain and Piedmont locations. Demonstrations on three 
commercial grain farms and two Experiment Station farms will include field-scale plantings of 
selected treatments from research plots. Field days and twilight meetings will be held at 
research locations and on-farm demonstration locations. 


Objectives 


(1) Extend field plot research findings to field-sized research/demonstration programs on 
commercial farms. 


(2) Determine effects of kill dates of hairy vetch, cereal rye and vetch/rye mixtures, plus 
no-tillage corn planting dates on nitrogen status of soils and crops, soil moisture 
availability during germination and early growth, and shallow groundwater quality. 


(3) | Develop predictive models to identify viable management alternatives for cover crop 
use in corn production systems. 


Results 


Replicated small-plot studies were conducted over a two-year period at Coastal Plain 
and Piedmont locations to evaluate the effects of cover crop kill dates, corn plant dates, and 
corn fertilizer nitrogen (FN) rates following hairy vetch, cereal rye, and a vetch/rye mixture in 
a no-tillage corn production system. Research evaluated cover crop yield and N production, 
corn N uptake and yield, soil moisture use efficiency, and soil N status. 


Results substantiate that vetch can fix most of the N required for high corn yields. 
When more N is required N responses are greater following vetch than following rye or no 


84 


cover. This synergistic response appears to be related to more efficient soil water utilization. 
Research has shown that fall-seeded rye will immobilize more soil N than vetch, thus, 
reducing the potential for winter nitrate leaching. Data from these studies support the thesis 
that vetch/rye mixtures can maximize N production, minimize the potential for N leaching, 
and enhance corn yields. 


Cover crop kill dates and corn plant date are critical in terms of N fixation, N 
recycling, and soil moisture utilization. The ideal kill date will vary with location, soil, and 
annual climatic pattern but will usually fall between April 20 and May 10 and the best kill 
date should be what is best for the dominant species in the mixture. 


Composition of a fall-seeded legume/grass mixture will adjust to the soil N status in 
that the grass will dominate when the residual N is high while the legume will dominate when 
the N level is low. This offers good environmental protection while reducing fertilizer N 
costs to the producer. Shallow ground water samples show lower nitrate concentrations under 
rye or vetch/rye mixtures, but more study is needed since data are noisy and may reflect 
previous cropping history. 


Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $105,000 in 1989. Matching, $142,748. 


Sustainable Matching 
[2 Agri. Funds Funds 
| University of Maryland of Maryland $105,000 $142,748 
$105,000 $142,748 


LNE89-14: NORTHEASTERN ORGANIC AND SUSTAINABLE FARMER NET- 
WORK: MANUAL OF CURRENT PRACTICES, EXTENSION TRAINING 
AND FIELD DAYS 

(Revised 4/14/93) 

Major Participants: 


Cornell University: Judith J. Green (Project Coordinator), Extension Support Specialist, 
Farming Alternatives Project, 422 Warren Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853. 


Natural Organic Farmers’ Association: Edwin N. McGlew III, Dairy Farmer and Treasurer of 
the NOFA Interstate Council, 140 Chestnut Street, West Hatfield, MA 01088. 


85 


Miranda Smith: Writer/Consultant in Organic Agriculture, 63 LaFountain St., Burlington, VT 
05401, will oversee the research, writing, review and publication of the manual of 
current practices in organic farming in the northeast region. 


University of Massachusetts: Karen Idoine, Associate Extension Agent for Agriculture, 238 
Main St., Greenfield, MA 01301 is coordinator (with Grace Gershuny) of Extension 
in-service training program. Grace Gershuny, GAIA Associates, Principal, Organic 
Farm Service, Box 84, RFD 3, St. Johnsbury, VT 05819. 


State Extension Contacts: Latif Lighari, CT; Richard Brzozowski, ME; Karen Idoine, MA; 
Bruce Clement, NH; Clare S. Liptak, NJ; Martin N. Culik, NY; Stu Gibson, VT. 


Farmer Participants: 


Organic and Sustainable Farmers’ Network, State Coordinators: The following organic 
farmers (listed alphabetically by state) will serve as coordinators of the farmer network 
and will help to develop criteria for selecting the master farmers, oversee their 
selection, organize and publicize the farm field days in their respective states. (A list 
of other participating farmers is available from the Project Coordinator.) 


Connecticut: Alton Eliason, 214 Parsonage Hill, Northford, CT 06472. 
Maine: David Colson, 470 Davis Road, Pownal, ME 04069. 


Massachusetts: Maureen Blasco, Bittersweet Farm, 683 River Road, Winchendon, MA 
01495. 


New Hampshire: David Trumble, Old Country Road South, Francestown, NH 03043. 


New Jersey: Al Johnson, RD #1, Box 263A, Pennington, NJ 08534. 
New York: Elizabeth Henderson, Rose Valley Farm, Rose, NY 14542-0149. 


Vermont: Will Stevens, Golden Russet Farm, RD #1, Box 94, Bridport, VT 05734. 
Overview 


There is no comprehensive source of information on organic farming and other low- 
input farming systems readily available to farmers, agricultural agents or researchers. This 
project was designed by a committee of the Natural Organic Farmers’ Association (NOFA) 
Interstate Council to fill this substantial gap in information. This project will remedy this 
lack in three ways: 1) establish a network of experienced organic and sustainable farmers in 
the northeast states who will provide information for researchers, hold field days for other 
farmers and farm demonstrations for agricultural Extension Agents; 2) write, publish, and 
distribute a manual of current practices on farms using organic and sustainable methods; and 


86 


3) design and disseminate an in-service training program for Extension agents and other 
agricultural consultants on organic and sustainable farm production systems and management. 


Objectives 


(1) Create a network consisting of at least three organic and sustainable farmers in each 
northeast state and conduct a series of field days for farmers and farm demonstrations 
for extension agents at fifteen of these farms. 


(2) Produce a manual documenting the production practices currently in use on certified 
organic farms in the northeast: Organic farming represents one end of a continuum 
from chemical-intensive to chemical independent agricultural systems. 


(3) Expand the range of options which Cooperative Extension agents can suggest to the 
increasing numbers of conventional farmers who are inquiring about low-input 
systems, by training agents in the production, management and marketing issues 
involved in organic and sustainable agriculture. 


Results 


The project implemented both a set of concrete activities and a collaborative process 
aimed at increasing the mutual understanding and knowledgesharing between the organic 
farming community and the "conventional" agriculture community. 


Three major activities were undertaken: 


O 


On-farm field days were held on 21 farms throughout the Northeast during the 
summers of 1989 and 1990. The series featured producers of organic and 
low-input field crops, vegetables, tree fruits, dairy, beef, sheep and poultry, as 
well as on-farm composting operations. Nearly 1,000 farmers, extension 
personnel and other attended the series. 


Experienced farmers were identified and interviewed to provide documentation 
of the farming practices currently used by organic and low-input farmers in the 
Northeast. Specific production practices documented included crop orations, 
use of cover crops and green manures, composting, soil amendments, tillage 
and cultivation regimes, livestock health and nutrition, pest management 
strategies, and marketing practices. A draft publication, Organic and 
Low-Input Farming Systems in the Northeast, has been produced and reviewed. 
Arrangements for publication of the book are under negotiation. 


In-service training for Cooperative Extension agents and other agriculture 
professionals was offered in three states. 


87 


The process of organizing these activities brought together organic farmers, Extension 
agents and Land Grant specialists in a variety of context, and helped to clarify 
differences as well as similarities of perspectives, values and methodological 
approaches to the problems faced by farmers. 


Project Duration: 1989-1991 


Funding: $115,000 in 1989. Matching, $81,314. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Natural Organic Farmers’ 
Association $84,650 $60,054 


Cornell University 30,350 21,260 
$115,000 $81,314 


LNE89-15: EGGPLANT: A MODEL SYSTEM FOR IMPLEMENTING THE INTE- 
GRATION OF A BIOLOGICAL CONTROL INTENSIVE PEST MANAGE- 
MENT FOR THE MAJOR INSECT AND DISEASE PESTS OF SOLANA- 
CEOUS CROPS IN THE NORTHEAST 


Major Participants: 

Rutgers University: James Lashomb (Project Coordinator), Cook College, Entomology, New 
Brunswick, NJ 08903; George Hamilton, Entomology, Extension; Steve Johnston, 
Plant Pathology, Extension and Research; Robin Brumfield, 100% Extension; Pritham 
Dhillon, Agricultural Economics and Marketing, Teaching and Research. 


County Agents: Philip Nieri, Gloucester County; Peter Probasco, Salem County; Jack Rabin, 
Cumberland County. 


USDA/Agricultural Research Service: Debbie Fravel, Research Plant Pathologist Biological 
Control of Plant Disease Laboratory. 


New Jersey Dept. of Agriculture: William Metterhouse, Director of Plant Industry; Robert 
Chianese, Chief of Beneficial Insects Laboratory. 


88 


Farmer Participants: 


New Jersey Vegetable Farmers: Sam Ballinder and Mullica Hill, Gloucester County; Daniel 
Deola, Robert Ferrari, and Donald Tarrabio, Vineland, Cumberland County; William 
Horner, Swedesboro, Gloucester County; William Lillya and John Musemeci, 
Woodstown, Salem County; Sam Walker, Porchtown, Salem County. 


Overview 


The Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say)) and verticillium wilt 
(Verticillium dahliae) are profound pests of tomatoes, potatoes and eggplant in the northeast. 
The beetle is highly insecticide resistant. Colorado potato beetle was resistant to second and 
third generation pyrethroids before they were out of the research laboratory. Population 
growth is very explosive, often completely defoliating a crop before any economic returns are 
realized. 


Many growers rely on the very expensive and environmentally hazardous soil 
sterilizing fumigants to control verticillium wilt. Rotation is used by potato and vegetable 
farmers with limited success, since the infective stage can remain viable in the soil for at least 
five years. Biological Control Intensive Pest Management (BCIPM) is a promising alternative 
for both problems: a parasitic wasp lays its eggs in the beetles’ eggs, and verticillium wilt 
can be controlled by a soil antagonist. 


Objectives 


(1) Refine a BCIPM delivery system of a parasitic wasp (Edovum __ puttleri) for protect- 
ing eggplant yield against Colorado potato beetle populations. 


(2) Demonstrate the benefits of a soil-borne antagonist (Talaromyces flavus) against 
verticillium wilt in eggplant as a model for wider use in potato. 


3) Determine the economic feasibility of using BCIPM for Colorado potato beetle and 
verticillium wilt in eggplant as a model system for further implementation in potato 
and tomato. 


Project Duration: One Year 


Funding: $25,000 in 1989. Matching, $145,650. 


89 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
$25,000 $145,650 


LNE89-16: EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES FOR SMALL FRUIT 
PRODUCTION 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


The Pennsylvania State University: Barbara L. Goulart (Project Coordinator), Dept. of 
Horticulture, 101 Tyson Building, University Park, PA 16802. Conducts research in 
genotype productivity evaluations, and post-harvest control of Botrytis on raspberries 
using a biologically derived substance; Edwin W. Rajotte, Dept. of Entomology, 
conducts research in bramble insect sensitivity and testing of biorational chemical 
controls of insects; James W. Travis, Dept. of Plant Pathology, conducts research in 
genotype disease resistance and disease management strategies; Robert D. Weaver, 
develops and implements survey characterizing small fruit producers’ perspective on 
low-input practices. 


Cornell University: Marvin Pritts, Pomology, 60% extension, 40% research, Dept. of 
Pomology, 134-A Plant Science Building, Ithaca, NY 14853, project coordinator for 
NY projects; Eric Nelson, pathologist, black root rot project; David Trinka, Pomology 
graduate student, establishment studies with raspberries; Mary Jo Kelly, Pomology 
technician working a majority of time on this project. 


University of Maine: David Handley, small fruit specialist, 100% extension, Highmoor Farm, 
Box 179, Monmouth, ME 03824, conducts research on strawberry genotype sensitivity 
to tarnished plant bug and potential of rowcovers as insect barriers in cooperation with 
J. Pollard, University of New Hampshire; James L. Dill, extension pest management 
specialist, Pest Management Office, 491 College Avenue, Orono, ME 04473, 
evaluation of tarnished plant bug populations and behavior on strawberries. 


University of Massachusetts: Dan Cooley, integrated pest management specialist, Dept. of 
Plant Pathology, Fernald Hall, Amherst, MA 01003, conducts research on biological 
control of Botrytis and black root rot; Sonia Schloemann, integrated pest management 
coordinator, Dept. of Plant Pathology, conducts research on two-spot mite control 
using predacious mites, soil solarization as a substitution for fumigation. 


90 


Extension: Wayne Wilcox, Plant Pathology, 70% extension, 30% research, Dept. of Plant 
Pathology, NYSAES, Geneva, NY 14456, cooperates on research on strawberry and 
bramble genotype/disease interactions, strawberry black root rot cultivar screen, 
raspberry trellising systems; Mark A. Castaldi, regional extension specialist, Hudson 
Valley Laboratory, P.O. Box 727, Highland, NY 12528, compares costs of establish- 
ment, operation, and relative profitability of small fruits grown under low-input 
regimes; Steve Hoying, extension fruit specialist, Alton, NY, interplanted cover crops, 
raspberry trellises; Warren Smith, extension fruit specialist, Hudson Valley Lab, 
Highland, NY, black root rot cultivar screen. 


Appalachian Fruit Research Station: Wojciech Janisiewicz, research plant pathologist, 100% 
research, Rt 2, Box 45, Kearneysville, WV 25430. Control of Botrytis with 
pyrrolnitrin and antagonists; Fumiomi Takeda, research horticulturist, 100% research, 
conducts field and lab (room temperature) trials, respectively, using pyrrolnitrin, a 
biologically derived chemical control for strawberry and raspberry pathogen control. 


International Process Systems: Lewis Naylor, vice president, ALLGro Distributor, Inc., 
Ithaca, NY, compost for control of black root rot. 


Farmer Participants: 


Growers: Robert Chase, small fruit grower, Chase Farms, Fairport, NY, interplanted cover 
crops, raspberry trellises; Roderick Dressel, strawberry grower, Dressel Orchards, New 
Paltz, NY, black root rot cultivar screen; Everett Hatch, fruit and vegetable grower, 
Greenfield, MA, IPM, mite predators and Botrytis biocontrol; John J. McCue, farm 
supervisor, Highmoor Farm, P.O. Box 179, Monmouth, ME 04259, oversees and 
maintains research plots at Highmoor Farm; Tim Nourse, nurseryman, grower, 
cooperating on predator mite and yeast control of Botrytis on strawberry; Dale Riggs, 
strawberry grower, RT 22, Box 149A, Stephentown, NY, interseeded cover crops; 
Erick Smith, strawberry grower, Brookton Hollow Farm, Brooktondale, NY, site for 
black root rot cultural practices study; Daniel Tanwzinski, fruit and vegetable grower, 
Great Barrington, MA, IPM, mite predators and Botrytis control; Maurice Tougas, fruit 
grower, Northboro, MA, IPM, mite predators and Botrytis control. 


Overview 


Five of the states in the Northeastern Region propose to continue research on a 
multidisciplinary project exploring the feasibility of production techniques for strawberries and 
brambles which could greatly reduce chemical pesticide and fertilizer inputs while maintaining 
profitability. 


This project will study nearly all phases of strawberry and bramble production, from 


preplant preparation to postharvest disease control, evaluating new strategies to lower 
chemical pesticide applications, while maintaining a high-quality product. Specific experi- 


91 


mental objectives include: evaluation of non-chemical techniques of soil sterilization, weed 

control and ground cover management; screening of strawberry and raspberry germplasm for 
disease and insect susceptibility and productivity; evaluation of new planting and production 
practices designed to reduce pest pressure; and evaluation of biological agents for the control 
of postharvest fruit rots. 


This study will be carried out by extension specialists, agents and research scientists 
from four universities, the United States Dept. of Agriculture, a private company, and small 
fruit growers. Information transfer is a priority, using such diverse means as a sustainable 
small fruit newsletter, grower experimental plots, the participation of growers in integrated 
pest management programs, the development of user-friendly software for grower implemen- 
tation, as well as more traditional means of information dissemination such as grower 
meetings, trade journals and scientific publications. Much of this project will require field 
research (and funding) over several years, due to the perennial nature of the crops and 
climatic variations. 


Objectives 


(1) To devise and test production and pest management practices which will reduce the 
need for chemical pesticides and fertilizer. 


(2) To transfer technological advances by demonstrating the feasibility, profitability and 
rationality of alternative practices to existing and potential small fruit growers. 


(3) To evaluate the economic feasibility of newly developed sustainable practices. 
Results to Date 


During the last reporting period, the project has focused more on the critical phases of 
strawberry production, with less emphasis on red raspberry production. The research includes 
but is not limited to non-chemical techniques of soil sterilization and/or increased fertility, 
integrated pest management techniques for weed, insect and disease control, screening of 
strawberry germplasm for disease and insect susceptibility and productivity, characterization 
of a new system for red raspberry production, and the identification and evaluation of 
biological agents and agricultural composts for the control of post-harvest rots and black root 
rot. 


If widely adopted, participants suggest, their findings would allow farmers to continue 
to produce a profitable crop while minimizing pesticide inputs. This is because emphasis 
would shift from chemical treatment after the pest symptoms are observed to preventative 
measures before problems occur. Tolerant cultivars, improved cultural system and biological 
control agents are part of this preventive IPM approach. The project has identified and tested 
many such practices that would not be expensive to implement. Chemical treatments would 


92 


still be available if preventive measures fail, but they would not be used as a first line of 
defense. 


If rowcovers are widely adopted as a tool for strawberry production in the Northeast, 
yield increases of 25-50 percent could be realized, depending on the percentage of fields using 
this treatment and the varieties used. This would increase profits to farmers without requiring 
additional land or fertilizer inputs, and could reduce the amount of insecticide used presently 
for tarnished plant bug. 


If tarnished plant bug resistance (as was found in this research with small plots) could 
be exploited in large single strawberry variety fields, growers could achieve significant 
reductions in insecticide inputs with little or no loss in profits. If resistance to tarnished plant 
bug is dependent on the presence of susceptible (preferred) varieties, then a system of trap 
crops could be developed which would allow farmers to reduce or eliminate insecticide use 
for this pest. 


Project Duration: Four years, through 1993. 


SARE funding: $521,768 1989-1992. Matching, $753,206. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Pennsylvania State 
University $166,867 $176,648 


USDA/ARS 44,426 144,033 
$521,768 $753,206 


93 


LNE89-17: IMPROVING MILK QUALITY AND ANIMAL HEALTH BY EFFICIENT 
PASTURE MANAGEMENT 


(Revised 1/14/91) 
Major Participants: 


University of Vermont: J. Woodrow Pankey (Project Coordinator), Dept. of Animal Science, 
Mastitis Microbiology, Burlington, VT 05405. 


Extension: John R. Kunkel, Veterinarian; Edward E.Wildman, Dairy Specialist. 
New York State Mastitis Control Program: Philip Sears, Ithaca, NY, Director. 
Cooperators: 


Agri-Mark Milk Cooperative, Field Services: Yvon Lanoue obtains monthly milk quality data 
through coop quality testing labs and collects BTM samples for analysis by the Quality 
Milk Research Lab (QMRL), UVM, assists in economic evaluations based on the milk 
quality incentive program. 


Vermont Dept. of Agriculture: Dan Scruton, Vermont Quality Milk Enhancement Program 
(VQMEP), assists in farm evaluation of milking management, collection of monthly 
BTM samples for analysis by UVM QMRL, economic evaluations and dissemination 
of results through VMQEP. 


Farmer Participants: 
Farmers: Vermont dairies and UVM herd. 


Bovine practitioners: Steve Wadsworth, St. Albans; Joe Klopfenstein, Vergennes; Mark 
Catlin, Barre, monitors cooperator farms, conducts clinics, collects mastitis, repro- 
duction and health data, retrieves DHIA data for monthly analysis; John Brigham, 
Brent Brigham and Austin Cleaves, dairy farmers, cooperators in VT LISA: record 
data for mastitis, reproduction, health and economics, provide producer insight into the 
project. Additional cooperator farmers will be obtained through veterinarians and coop 
field representatives. 


Overview 
Three grazing systems: intensively managed rotational grazing (IMRG), traditional 
continuous grazing (TCG), and confinement housing (CH), were compared on seventeen 


Vermont dairy farms to determine if grazing systems had an effect on milk quality, animal 
health and reproductive efficiency. Analysis of variance, using a general linear means 


94 


procedure, on monthly bulk tank milk samples for standard plate count were not significant at 
P,.05; however, differences indicated trends towards improved milk quality during the grazing 
season in pastured herds compared with confined herds. Mean standard plate count during 
May through October for IMRG herds and TCG herds (4.28 X 10° cfu/ml) and (4.97 X 10° 
cfu/ml) were lower compared with CH herds (12.67 X 10° cfu/ml). 


Samples cultured on trypticase blood-esculin agar to determine total bacteria count and 
distribution of specific bacterial types and species, and somatic cell count (SCC) indicated 
differences during the grazing season towards lower mean counts of streptococci other than 
Streptococcus agalactiae in herds using IMPG (996 cfu/ml) compared with TCG and CH 
(2,242 and 1,416 cfu/ml). Mean CH (2.15 X 10° cells/ml) than either TCG or CH (2.15 X 
10° cells/ml) during the grazing season. 


Animal health and reproductive efficiency were evaluated by analyzing monthly 
reports by veterinarians incorporating barn records, DHIA test reports, and biweekly or 
monthly herd clinics. Mean occurrence of diseases, disease incidence densities, and estimates 
of risk were similar in all treatments for metabolic disorders, lameness and reproductive 
disorders. Udder disease, including clinical mastitis, udder edema, and teat injuries, were 
consistently less in herds managed on pasture compared with herds managed in confinement. 
When herds with fewer than 60 lactating cows were compared, incidence density of udder 
diseases was .09 cases/animal month in IMPG, .03 cases/animal month in TCG, and .16 
cases/animal month in CH. 


A LISA dairy seminar by participants informed the northeast dairy industry of project 
results. The seminar summarized results of grazing management on milk quality and animal 
health. Topics included monitoring of milk quality and herd health; incentive payments and 
milk pricing; summer forage feeding and protein quality in forage; and economics of grazing 
management. A highlight of the seminar was a small group discussion by participants 
expressing views on information they need for agriculture to be sustainable. 


Objectives 


(1) Compare economic effects of Voisin grazing, continuous grazing and confined housing 
systems on milk quality parameters. 


(2) Determine incidence of mastitis in dairy cows managed under Voisin grazing and 
confined housing systems. 


(3) Compare effects of Voisin grazing, continuous grazing and confinement on reproduc- 
tion. 


(4) Compare effects of these systems on animal health. 


(5) Determine economic implications for farms when applying these systems. 


PS 


(6) Disseminate results to the northeast dairy industry. 
Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $58,000 in 1989. Matching, $61,292. 


Sustainable Matching 
Re Lies eae Saat pane Funds re 


| University of Vermont = of Vermont ME palatine Stoo 000 ee | 292 


Cornell University 5,000 saat 1 enhance 
$58,000 $61,292 


LNE89-18: MARKETABILITY OF LOW-INPUT AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE 
(Revised 1/14/91) 
Major Participants: 


Rutgers: Clare S. Liptak (Project Coordinator), Rutgers Cooperative Extension Service, 
Somerset County Agricultural Agent, P.O. Box 3000, Somerville, NJ 08876; Dan B. 
Strombom, Rutgers Cooperative Extension of Cape May County, Agricultural Agent; 
Robert E. Wyse, NJ Agricultural Experiment Station, Senior Associate, Director, P.O. 
Box 231, New Brunswick, NJ 08903. Basil Englis, Marketing, Rutgers University, 
School of Business, New Brunswick, NJ 08903, consultant; Michael Gallo, Chief, 
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Division of Toxicology, New Brunswick, NJ 
08903, consultant. 


Cooperators: 

Rutgers Cooperative Extension: Specialists: Donald J. Prostak, pest management; Steven 
Reiners, vegetable production; Joseph Fiola, small fruits; Robin Brumfield, farm 
management, Cook College, Rutgers University, P.O. Box 231, New Brunswick, NJ 
08903. 


New Jersey Dept. of Agriculture: John J. Repko, Director, Division of Markets, CN330, 
Trenton, NJ 08625. 


96 


Farmer Participants: 


Farmers: Tom Everett, Ever-Lea Farms, 258 Beekman Lane, Somerville, NJ 08876; Bob 
Eurick, Mill Lane Farms, Mill Lane, Neshanic Station, NJ 08853; Peter Quick, 
Windward Farm, Whiton Road, Neshanic Station, NJ 08853; Matthew Fierst, 
Sunhaven Farms, 1018 Orchard Drive, Somerville, NJ 08876; Gary Mount, Terhune 
Orchards, 330 Cold Soil Road, Princeton, NJ 08540. 


Overview 


The question of marketability is of particular concern to farmers considering raising 
fresh produce in such programs as integrated pest management where attempts are made to 
reduce chemical inputs by substituting other techniques. There is considerable uncertainty as 
to how such produce might be marketed, specifically in pricing, advertising and promotions. 
This project will investigate the marketability of low-input fresh vegetable and fruit produce 
through a set of consumer surveys and market tests in New Jersey. The project team includes 
researchers, extension professionals and farmers. 


Objectives 
(1) Complete surveys to evaluate consumer perceptions and attitudes concerning fresh 
produce in regard to factors such as quality, local vs. non-local source, appearance and 


production methods. 


(2) Combine attitudinal data with demographic data to identify market segments at which 
promotional and advertising efforts should be aimed. 


Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $20,000 in 1989. Matching, $36,175. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
$20,000 $36,175 
$20,000 $36,175 


97 


LNE89-19: REDUCED TILLAGE: ALTERNATIVE CROPPING SYSTEMS FOR 
VEGETABLE PRODUCTION IN THE NORTHEAST 


(Revised 1/14/91) 
Major Participants: 


Cornell University: Robin R. Bellinder (Project Coordinator), research/extension, Dept. of 
Vegetable Crops, Ithaca, NY 14853. Weed Science, overall project coordinator, 
responsible for the weed control and tillage aspects of the projects in New York State, 
collaborator with the Michigan project. 


Long Island Horticulture Research Lab: Darlene Wilcox-Lee, research/extension, Dept. of © 
Vegetable Crops, 39 Sound Avenue, Riverhead, NY 11901. Coordinator of the Long 
Island projects and responsible for soil water aspects of all studies. 


University of Connecticut: Richard Ashley, research/extension, Dept. of Plant Science, U-67, 
1376 Storrs Road, Storrs, CT 06268. Coordinator of Connecticut projects, specialist 
with regard to the cultural management of the living mulch aspects of the studies. 


Extension: Laura Pedersen, Cooperative Extension Agent, Ontario County, 480 N. Main St., 
Canandaigua, NY 14424. Ms. Pedersen has been a proponent of ridge-tillage for snap 
beans for number of years so when I approached her with this project she joined in 
willingly. Thanks to her efforts Mr. Wafler joined the team. She will be an active 
participant in all field days and extension activities. 


New York State Agricultural Experiment Station: Curt Petzoldt, Assistant Director, IPM 
Program, Geneva, NY. Dr. Petzoldt has been interested in other reduced tillage work 
that has been done in the Vegetable Crops Weed Control Program and has acted as an 
adviser in the planning phase of the project. He will actively participate in the 
demonstrations (to be done in growers’ fields in 1990 and 1991) and educational 
events. 


USDA/Soil Conservation Service: Alan Connell, District Conservationist, Riverhead, NY. 
Will provide technical expertise in soil water measurement and the determination of 
soil erosion potential under various ground covers. In addition, he has provided 
valuable assistance in obtaining grower participation in this project. 


Comstock Foods: Gerry Ivison, Field Manager, Bergen, NY. This is the company that 
processes Craig Yunker’s organic vegetables for Earth’s Best Baby Foods. Mr. 
Ivison’s expertise with both growing and processing concerns will make him an 
excellent consultant. He is also providing us with the seed we need for the pea 
project. 


98 


Farmer Participants: 


Lyle Wells, Riverhead, NY, member of the Board of Directors of the New York State 
Vegetable Growers Association. Mr. Wells has been particularly interested in 
producing no-till pumpkins and approached us with his interest. He has been 
invaluable in the early discussion phase of the project and will be a participant in the 
field trial phase. 


Paul Wafler, Wolcott, NY. Mr. Wafler is one of the courageous few willing to experiment 
with the idea of reduced tillage vegetable production. He has participated in the early 
planning phases of the snap bean studies and has already planted wheat and hairy 
vetch mulches for this first trial in 1989. 


Craig Yunker, CY Farms, Elba, NY. He has an interest in growing vegetables organically. 
He has grown both snap beans and peas for several years using organic methods. He 
will act as a consultant to our organic peas study and will grow two 14-acre plantings 
of peas in a plowed down alfalfa sod in 1991. 


Overview 


We are proposing to investigate the use of reduced and strip-tillage with interrow 
‘cover crops for vegetable production in the northeast. The research will be conducted at 
research facilities and growers’ fields in upstate New York and on Long Island, and in 
Connecticut. 


We will evaluate different grass and legume mulch/cover crop species for their ability 
to suppress weeds, conserve soil moisture and control soil erosion. Crop performance in each 
of the mulch systems will be determined and herbicide rates will be reduced utilizing the 
weed-suppressing potential of the mulches. 


The studies will be conducted on a wide range of crops that are grown throughout the 
northeast and north central regions of the US. We will include tomatoes, cabbage or 
cauliflower, snap beans, sweet corn and pumpkins at multiple locations. The proposed 
research will help to define the specific requirements for reduced-tillage vegetable production 
that will be necessary if growers are to consider using such systems. Formulation of such 
recommendations in combination with the extension and education efforts involved in this 
project should provide commercial interest and participation in a system with both economic 
and environmental advantages. 


Objectives 
We are proposing to investigate the use of reduced and strip-tillage with interrow 


cover crops for vegetable production in the northeast. The specific objectives of the proposed 
work are: 


99 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


Evaluate potential cover crop/mulch species for their ability to suppress weeds, 
conserve moisture and reduce erosion. Growth characteristics like rate of growth, 
biomass production, degree of tillering and plant architecture will have a significant 
impact on the degree of weed suppression and soil and water conservation achieved. 
For example, the vertical architecture of the grass mulches may allow more water 
evaporation than the horizontal covers provided by legumes. Conversely, the poten- 
tially greater moisture under the legume mulch may enhance weed germination. 
Differences in light penetration in the two mulch types may result in changes in the 
species of weeds that germinate and develop. 


Determine the yield potential of numerous vegetable crops grown throughout the 
northeast when produced in strip or reduced tillage systems. Numerous problems have 
been reported when vegetables are grown in no-tillage systems. Three of the 
commonly reported problems are poor seed-soil contact or coverage; cold soils 
preventing germination; and reduced root development. We feel that the use of strip 
tillage, particularly coupled with the use of a chisel tine in the strip, will alleviate 
these problems. Our goal is not to obtain increased yields in these systems but to 
obtain yields equivalent to those currently produced with traditional plow/disc 
cultivation systems. 


Utilize the weed suppressing potential of a mulch to reduce rates of applied herbicides. 
In order to significantly reduce the chemical load on the environment we must 
convince large-scale commercial vegetable growers that herbicide use can be reduced 
without a reduction in yields (profits). Through a combination of physical and 
allelopathic characteristics some mulches prevent or suppress weed germination and/or 
growth. Delaying weed emergence by four to six weeks would eliminate the need for 
most soil-applied preemergence herbicides. Coupled with the currently labeled, highly 
selective post-emergence herbicides, growers can begin to apply herbicides at low dose 
on an as-needed basis as is done with insecticides and fungicides in traditional 
Integrated Pest Management Programs. 


Compare costs involved with each mulch/tillage/herbicide system. Each mulch used 
will require a different management approach; spring oats will winter-kill; hairy vetch 
will be mowed; and the remainder will require chemical regulation. It will be 
necessary to calculate all inputs into the system: man and machine time, fuel and 
chemical inputs, etc. It may prove that reducing the chemical inputs in dollars will be 
offset by increases in the other areas, however the benefit of reducing the chemical 
load on the environment and of reducing soil loss must also be factored into the 
economic equation. 


Project Duration: Two years: 1991-1993 


Funding: $10,000 in 1989; $37,300 in 1990. Matching, $108,327. 


100 


=a 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
University of Connecticut 


LNE90-20: WHOLE-FARM IMPACT OF CONVERTING CONVENTIONALLY MAN- 
AGED EASTERN VINEYARDS TO ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


Cornell University: Chris M. Becker (Project Coordinator) and David M. Gadoury, Dept. of 
Plant Pathology, New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, Geneva, NY 
14456, Phone: (315) 787-2367. They will design and implement all studies regarding 
development and management of grape diseases. Robert M. Pool, Dept. of 
Horticultural Sciences, will coordinate all studies on vineyard and vigor, yield and fruit 
quality as well as studies on soil fertility and moisture; Alan N. Lasko, Dept. of 
Horticultural Sciences, will design and implement all studies on vine water status and 
photosynthesis; Thomas Henick-Kling, Dept. of Food Science and Technology, will 
perform all laboratory quality assessments of fruit and fruit products and will coordi- 
nate sensory evaluation of fruit and fruit products; Timothy Dennehy, Dept. of 
Entomology, will design and implement all studies on management of grape insects 
and mites; Gerald White, Dept. of Agricultural Economics, Ithaca, will analyze 
production costs and revenues under conventional and organic management programs. 


Roger Pearson, who died in March of 1993, coordinated this project from 1990 until 
his death. Pearson was a faculty member of the New York State Agricultural 
Experiment Station. 


Cooperators: 


Cornell University: George MacDonald, Dept. of Horticultural Sciences, New York State 
Agricultural Experiment Station, Geneva, will conduct the analyses of soil and petiole 


101 


samples for nutrients; Joseph Kovach and Timothy Weigle, Integrated Pest Manage- 
ment Program, will assist in educating growers on techniques and results of the study. 


Cornell University Cooperative Extension Service: David Peterson and James Kamas, 
regional specialists for grapes, will use the trials for educational purposes by conduct- 
ing field tours of the trials for growers and by explaining the results to them in 
newsletters. 


Farmer Participants: 


Vintner’s International, Inc., Hammondsport, NY: Thomas Mitchell and William Dunn 
(vineyard manager and foreman, respectively) will manage the vineyards where the 
studies take place and will apply all needed treatments. Vintner’s International 
operates a sophisticated computerized system to track all input of labor and materials 
and to record yields from each block. 


Natural Organic Farmers’ Association of New York, Inc. (NOFA): Scott Smith, Chairman of 
the Standards Committee and vineyard manager of Four Chimneys Farm Winery, an 
organic vineyard and winery operation in Himrod, NY, is consulting on the project as 
a source of information on acceptable organic vineyard practices. 


Four Chimneys Farm Winery, Himrod, NY: Walter Pederson, owner, will also consult on the 
project as a source of information on acceptable organic vineyeard practices. 


Overview 


Because of increasing public concern over the use of pesticides in agriculture, growers 
in general are showing more interest in organic management practices. Eastern grape 
growers, confronted with loss of synthetic pesticides due to pest resistance and government 
and processor restrictions, are no exception. However, before a grower converts his entire 
operation to organic management practices, he needs to understand the consequences of this 
action in terms of pest problems, crop yield, produce quality and production costs and returns. 
We propose to determine pest populations and problems, vine vigor, yield, fruit composition, 
and juice and wine quality, as well as production costs in conventionally and organically 
managed vineyards. Vintner’s International, Inc., one of the largest grower-winery operations 
in the eastern US, has committed 30 acres of vineyards and significant manpower to a five- 
year study of the conversion of conventionally managed vineyards to organic management 
practices. 


Studies will be conducted in 10-acre blocks of the varieties Concord, Elvira and 
Seyval. In each 10-acre block, one half will be managed organically and the other half will 
be managed conventionally. Because grape is a perennial crop and the effects of conversion 
to organic practices may not be obvious in the first years of the study, observations must be 
made over several seasons. Therefore, conversion to organic practices will be initiated in 


102 


1990 and the study will continue for five years. Information from this study will have a 
substantial impact upon the development of organic viticulture in the northeastern United 
States. The systematic evaluation of organic management practices (a poorly researched area), 
and the comparison of these practices to conventional management, may provide a model for 
conversion of eastern vineyards if conventional management becomes unsustainable in the 
near future. The results of this study will be communicated to growers through field tours, 
meetings, and published reports. 


Objectives 


(1) Determine the impact of vineyard conversion on vine nutrition, soil fertility and 
moisture, vine vigor, capacity and yield. 


(2) Determine the impact of vineyard conversion on disease incidence and severity. 


(3) Compare the efficacy and survival of beneficial biological control fungi under 
conventional and organic management programs. 


(4) Determine the contribution of dormant eradicant treatments to seasonal disease control 
under conventional and organic management programs. 


(5) Demonstrate the efficacy of a non-pesticidal insect pheromone for control of grape 
berry moth; determine the long-term effects of eliminating conventional insecticides 
from vineyards; and develop risk assessment methods for management of grape 
leafhopper. 


(6) Determine the impact of vineyard conversion on fruit and wine quality. 

(7) Determine the impact of vineyard conversion on production costs and profitability. 

(8) Relay results of the study to growers using current Cooperative Extension methods. 
Results to Date 

This section summarizes the third year’s (1992) activities and responses. 

Soil and petiole analyses indicate that conventionally and organically managed 
vineyards are similar in overall nutritional status. Differences in yield and yield components 
between the culture methods were less in 1992 than in previous years. The very wet growing 
season reduced the impact of any differential weed competition between the two systems. At 
the same statistical crop level, conventionally managed vines had higher soluble solids, which 


may indicate that the late season canopy of these vines was more functional. 


Differences in competition and water use were seen when alternative cover crops were 
used between rows. The higher soluble solids at similar crop loads may indicate improved 


103 


canopy function when legumes are planted between rows. In-row weed management with 
propane weed burners appears to be as effective as paraquat, and in 1992 experience was 
gained using this method instead of paraquat to burn down grapevine suckers. 


This was the first year of significant disease, due largely to the excessively wet 
growing season. Phomopsis was common in both Concord management systems, whereas 
downy mildew and black rot were severe in the organically-managed blocks. Powdery 
mildew and Botrytis bunch rot were common in both Seyval management systems, but 
powdery mildew was more severe on fruit of organically-managed vines. Diseases were not a 
problem in either management system of Elvira. The application of a biocontrol agent, 
Ampelomyces quisqualis, to an Aurore vineyard reduced the severity of powdery mildew and 
treatment with another biocontrol agent showed promise in controlling downy mildew. 


Insect damage was less severe in 1992 due in part to unseasonably cool temperatures . 
and rain. Grape berry moth damage exceeded the threshold in one portion of the 
organically-managed Concord vineyard. No conventional blocks received insecticide 
treatments. Foliar damage due to leafhopper was insignificant in all conventional and organic 
areas. Anagrus epos, an egg parasite of leafhoppers, was abundant and effective in preventing 
an estimated 80% of leafhopper eggs from hatching. 


Concord grapes grown conventionally in 1992 were slightly riper in sugar and acid 
content than those farmed organically, yet there was no difference in juice color. There was 
no difference in the juice quality of Elvira grapes from either management system. Seyval 
grapes from the conventionally-farmed vines were also more mature with higher Ph and sugar 
content. 


Growing costs, such as fertilization and mechanical weed control, for the organic 
vineyards were greater than for the conventional vineyards. Yield was higher for Concord 
and Seyval grapes grown conventionally, but lower for Elvira grapes. Nevertheless, returns to 
management, a measure of profitability, were greater for the conventional management system 
regardless of cultivar. 


Because we are still in the early stages of this long term project, most extension efforts 
are limited to informing growers of the nature of the study. As individual components of the 
project, such as results from insect studies and ground cover management, come into fruition, 
growers are informed through publications and meetings. 

Project Duration: Four years 


SARE funding: 251,987 Matching, $236,071. 


1993 SARE Grant Amount: $67,932 (funding to completion of project). 
Non-federal matching funds: 


104 


1988-92 Matching 
Organization SARE Funds Funds 
Cornell University $251,987 $236,071 
$251,987 $236,071 


LNE90-21: HONEYBEE BREEDING FOR TRACHEAL MITE RESISTANCE IN THE 
NORTHEASTERN UNITED STATES 


(Revised 1/14/91) 
Major Participants: 


The Pennsylvania State University: Bruce A. McPheron (Project Coordinator), Dept. of 
Entomology, 106 Patterson Building, University Park, PA 16802. Plans, oversees and 
analyzes all resistance experiments. Maryann Tomasko, project associate/apiculturist, 
Dept. of Entomology, plans and conducts resistance assays in Pennsylvania; supervises 
all mite infestation assays; organizes Pennsylvania workshops, distributes videotape. 


Middlebury Community TV: Box 786, Middlebury, VT 05753. Provides video equipment 
and producers to make queen-rearing videotape. 


Farmer Participants (Beekeepers): 


Champlain Valley Queens: Kirk Webster, Commercial Beekeeper, Box 381, Middlebury, VT 
05753. Establishes isolated mating yard, raises queens used in this project and 
conducts resistance assays in Vermont; prepares and teaches workshops, assists in 
production of queen-rearing videotape. : 


Commercial Beekeeper: Dennis Keeney, RD #1, Box 1089, Bethel, PA 19507. Provides 
120 Pennsylvania colonies; rears control queens and queens from Pennsylvania 
colonies showing potential resistance for use in this experiment. 


Overview 


Apiculture is a traditional, classic example of low-input, sustainable agriculture. We 
have reaped the benefits of apiculture, $9.3 billion (1985 figures) in increased yield and 
quality of crops due to pollination by honey bees and over $100 million in annual honey 
production, with virtually no risk to consumers. Unfortunately, the recent introduction and 
spread of two parasitic mites has changed this scenario. Both the tracheal mite, Acarapis 
woodi, and the Varroa mite, Varroa jacobsoni, have had a severe negative impact on 


105 


apiculture throughout the northeastern US. Increased winter morality caused by tracheal mites 
has substantially reduced honey production and the number of colonies available for 
pollination service, particularly pollination of apples, blueberries and cranberries, all 
economically important crops in the northeast. This negative trend has not yet stabilized, 
suggesting that agricultural practices relying on honey bee pollination may be even more 
drastically affected in coming years. Application of menthol treatment currently provides 
some degree of control of these parasites. Efficacy of certain synthetic chemical pesticides is 
also under study for mite control. However, reliance on chemical mite control tactics adds a 
significant expense to beekeepers, may lead to resistance in the mite populations, and 
threatens the honey crop with direct exposure to pesticides. 


We propose a cooperative project to evaluate levels of tracheal mite resistance in 
different honey bee genetic lines. Queens from northeastern apiaries that appear to have 
demonstrated some resistance to tracheal mite will be scientifically evaluated. Open-mated 
daughters of instrumentally inseminated queens available from commercial sources (also 
proposed to show resistance) will be evaluated under northeastern US conditions. Specific 
objectives include, but are not limited to, identifying and developing breeding stock resistant 
to tracheal mites, documenting the stability of this resistance under commercial conditions, 
and developing a simpler assay for tracheal mite resistance. Educational priorities include 
disseminating information on queen-rearing techniques to northeastern US commercial 
beekeepers. This multistate study is the first rigorously controlled fieldtest of tracheal mite 
resistance in honey bees. 


Objective 


(1) Explore the development of resistant stock as an alternative to chemical pesticides for 
control of honey bee tracheal mites. 


Honey bee pollination is a classic example of low-input, sustainable agriculture 
yielding an enormous return. The annual value of pollination in just three crops, apples, 
blueberries and cranberries, is significant at the national level (Table LNE90-21:1). These 
three crops are also important in the northeastern US, with an annual value of more than $360 
million. Apple production in this region has risen since 1970, and both cranberry and 
blueberry agreages have increased sharply since 1961. Unfortunately, apple growers in New 
York and Pennsylvania are experiencing difficulty in obtaining adequate numbers of honey 
bee colonies suitable for pollination. Small-acreage Maine blueberry growers who are unable 
to afford the high pollination fees paid by large growers face similar difficulties. These 
shortages are mainly due to the effects of two recently introduced parasitic mites, the honey 
bee tracheal mite Acarapis woodi and the Varroa mite, Varroa jacobsoni. Both mites are 
present in the northeastern US; while this proposal targets resistance to tracheal mites, field 
assay techniques developed should also apply to studies of Varroa mite resistance. 


106 


Value of Honey Bee Pollination 


National Annual Value 
($ millions) 


Table LNE90-21:1. 
National Annual Value 
Attributed to Honey Bees 


Fruit 
| ($ millions) 


Apples 915.6 824.0 
189.9 170.9 


The most significant effect of tracheal mite infestation is a dramatic increase in winter 
colony mortality. Winter loss of 10% of the colonies per apiary (or less, in commercial 
operations) is considered normal. Pennsylvania beekeepers with confirmed tracheal mite 
infestation experienced average winter losses of 28.2% in 1989, and losses as severe as 80- 
90% have been documented in Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts and Vermont. In 
order to minimize losses, beekeepers are treating their colonies with menthol, which has been 
shown to reduce tracheal mite infestation levels. Other chemical insecticides, including 
amitraz, fluvalinate and cymiazole are currently being tested for effectiveness against tracheal 
mites. However, chemical treatments are expensive and time- and labor-intensive to 
administer. Increased costs of buying and applying chemical controls are passed on to 
growers of bee-pollinated crops in the form of increased pollination fees. These in turn are 
passed on to consumers. 


Before the arrival of the tracheal mite in 1984, the average rental fee per colony paid 
to beekeepers for pollination was $16 for apples, $25 for blueberries, and $28 for cranberries. 
In 1989, the average price per colony for pollination of these crops was $21, $35 and $35, 
respectively. To further illustrate the magnitude of the problem, 21,000 colonies enter Maine 
for the purpose of pollinating blueberries each year. The increased cost to growers in 1989 
for the pollination of blueberries was $210,000. This year, beekeepers and growers alike fear 
there will be a region-wide shortage of colonies for pollination at any price due to winter 
losses caused by tracheal and Varroa mites. 


Breeding for mite resistance in honey bees represents a biological, rational alternative 
to chemical control methods. Chemical control of tracheal mites with menthol costs 
beekeepers approximately $2.00 per colony. In addition, the application is time-consuming 
and labor-intensive, interferes with honey harvesting and, in the northeast, is often ineffective. 
Further, other synthetic chemicals are not currently labeled for use on tracheal mite, may not 
be registered for some time, and are currently quite expensive ($10-$12 per colony) to apply. 
Even if such chemicals do become available, mites have a significant history of rapidly 
evolving resistance to acaricides. Moreover, putting pesticides in close proximity to honey 
destined for consumption may increase the public’s exposure to pesticides. 


107 


Most beekeepers re-queen their colonies every one to two years. If the cultural 
practice of re-queening with resistant queens could be used in place of menthol or other 
chemical treatments to control tracheal mites, it would lead to a considerable savings in time, 
labor, and expense for beekeepers. By avoiding application of costly and potentially harmful 
chemicals, it would also maintain the availability of residue-free honey and an adequate 
supply of colonies for pollination at a reasonable price. 


This project will explore the development of resistant stock as an alternative to 
chemical pesticides for control of honey bee tracheal mites using the following strategy. 


a. Demonstrate the presence of resistance to tracheal mites in three different lines of 
promising honey bee stock. 


Documentation of resistance in one or more honey bee lines is the requisite first step 
in implementing resistance as a region-wide mite control strategy. Researchers agree that 
observed variation among honey bee colonies should provide ample genetic material for a 
selection program to be successful. Once resistant stock have been identified, a continued 
selection and propagation program can be established by commercial queen breeders. 
Availability of resistant genotypes would lead to rapid adoption by beekeepers, since most 
beekeepers re-queen on an annual or biennial basis. 


b. Test for the presence of resistance to tracheal mites in open-mated daughters of 
commercially developed resistant breeding stock. 


Mite-resistant honey bee lines are available commercially. However, resistance has not 
been critically demonstrated. In addition, these lines are maintained by artificial insemination; 
queens produced in this manner are not suitable for introduction into producing colonies. If 
open-mated, daughters of these queens can economically produce hundreds of resistant 
daughters. These daughters could then be introduced into established colonies. 


C Determine the stability of resistance in stock produced by this project. 


Commercial beekeepers generally re-queen annually or biennially. Honey bee colonies 
may, however, re-queen themselves for several different reasons. Prior work indicates that 
colonies headed by young queens suffer lower mite infestation levels, although genotypes of 
the young and old queens were not considered. Knowledge of the stability of mite resistance 
through time will permit beekeepers to optimize their re-queening schedule with respect to 
resistance. 


d. Develop a new method of testing bees for tracheal mite resistance. 
Commercial beekeepers currently lack an adequate method for quickly evaluating 


potential resistance in their stock. The present method of dissecting 50 bees per hive to count 
mites is too time-consuming and labor-intensive to be used in an efficient commercial 


108 


breeding program. Observation of infested colonies used in queen rearing indicate that 
population growth during the summer from initially small colonies could be a good indication 
of mite resistance. This method will be tested against other indicators of resistance, and, if 
proven to be an early indicator of resistance, the information will be made available to 
beekeepers through workshops and practical publications. Such a technique would permit 
commercial beekeepers and queen breeders to make efficient selections of their own resistant 
stock. A minimum of two field seasons will be required to adequately evaluate the use of 
nucleus colonies (nucs) as a tool to accelerate selection. 


Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $40,000 in 1990. Matching, $48,495. 


Sustainable Matching | 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Pennsylvania State 
University $22,638 ae 300 


Champlain Valley Queen Bees 17,362 11, Katie meraenLlso | 
$40,000 $48,495 


LNE90-22: NOVEL ROTATION CROPS AS ALTERNATIVES TO FUMIGANT 
NEMATICIDE TREATMENT IN DECIDUOUS TREE FRUIT PRODUCTION 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


Pennsylvania State University: John Halbrendt (Project Coordinator), Nematologist, Dept. of 
Plant Pathology, Fruit Research Laboratory, P.O. Box 309, University Drive, 
Biglerviell, PA 17307. He will coordinate overall project management as well as 
field plot establishment and nematode monitoring in Pennsylvania, will also conduct 
greenhouse assays to assess host suitability (nematode resistance) of the alternate crops 
and will evaluate crops for susceptibility to tomato ringspot virus. Bill Kleiner, Fruit 
Extension Specialist, will develop slide and video programs to communicate research 
results directly to growers and will integrate research findings into existing Expert 
Systems and IPM programs. 


West Virginia University: Alan Collins, Agricultural Economist, Morgantown, WV, will be 
responsible for the economic analyses of alternate crops costs and benefits and will 


109 


evaluate the economic feasibility of integrating these crops with existing fruit produc- 
tion practices; James Kotcon, Nematologist, will serve as the principle West Virginia 
investigator and will coordinate field plot establishment and nematode monitoring in 
WV, will also conduct laboratory assays of biological control activity in soil microf- 
lora from these plots and will assess impacts on other nontarget organisms. 


Farmer Participant: 


Grower: Phil Roth, PAR Orchards, Fairfield, PA, will provide the Pennsylvania test site, 
provide on-site supervision and daily management of the plots, and will collaborate 
with project participants in project design and evaluation. 


Overview 


This project will continue the evaluation of the feasibility of seven (7) alternative 
rotation crops as substitutes for soil fumigants used to control dagger nematode (Xiphinema 
spp.) prior to replanting tree fruit orchards. 

Replicated field plots will be established at orchard replant sites in Pennsylvania and 
West Virginia. Treatments will consist of plantings of canola, corn, fescue cultivars with and 
without an Acremonium endophyte, marigolds, oats, and wheat. Dagger nematode population 
densities will be determined at planting and periodically during two growing seasons to 
determine the effectiveness of these crops for suppression of nematode population densities. 
Soil sampling and laboratory assays will also assess the impacts of these crops on nontarget 
soil organisms such as earthworms, and nematode predators and parasites. 

Greenhouse and laboratory experiments will be conducted to evaluate whether 
suppression is due to the host suitability of the crop or to the development of a soil microflora 
antagonistic to nematodes. 

Economic analyses will determine the production costs, market potential and feasibility 
of integrating each of the alternate crops into existing production systems. Additionally, the 
costs and benefits to subsequently replanted orchard trees associated with nematode 
suppression will be estimated for each rotation crop and for soil fumigation. 

This information will be incorporated into a slide and video program for growers and 
crop consultants. Findings will also be integrated into Expert Systems IPM programs and 
regional Extension publications to assure rapid dissemination. 


Objectives 


(1) Evaluate the effectiveness of seven (7) alternate crops for suppression of dagger 
nematodes in orchard replant sites. 


Dagger nematodes, Xiphinema americanum and Xiphinema rivesi, are major risk 
factors associated with production of deciduous tree fruits in the northeast and throughout the 
United States. Other widely distributed nematodes of concern to fruit growers include root 
lesion nematodes, Pratylenchus spp.; ring nematodes, Criconemella spp.; and root knot 


110 


nematodes, Meloidogyne spp. All of these nematodes may cause serious yield losses when 
present in high numbers; however, because of the potential of dagger nematodes to serve as 
vectors of lethal virus diseases, nematode control strategies in fruit orchards are driven by the 
need to suppress dagger nematode population densities to the lowest possible level. 


Current nematode control recommendations involve application of chemical nematic- 
ides and fumigants prior to replanting orchards. Two years of rotation crops are recom- 
mended to improve soil fertility and structure, control perennial weeds and eradicate other 
pests. The most frequently used rotation crops, corn and soybeans, help achieve these goals 
and provide an economic return to growers during the rotation years. However, both of these 
crops serve as excellent hosts for nematodes, increasing their population density, and thereby, 
increasing the need for chemical nematicide applications. 


(2) Quantify the impact of alternate crops on dagger nematode reproduction, tomato 
ringspot virus transmission, soil microflora associated with nematode biocontrol, and 
other nontarget soil organisms. 


To properly utilize rotation crops to suppress nematode populations, their mode of 
action must be understood. These crops may be nematode-resistant hosts or be toxic to 
nematodes. If so, their use as an orchard cover crop may be needed to extend nematode 
control throughout the life of the orchard. 


A competing hypothesis suggests that these crops induce a soil microflora that contains 
naturally occurring nematode biocontrol agents. As such these cover crops could induce 
biological soil suppressiveness to provide a long residual effect after the orchard is 
established. Virtually no information is available to evaluate these phenomena; however, a 
new technique developed at West Virginia University has the potential to provide quantitative 
data to evaluate the significance of this mechanism. 


Tomato ringspot virus, vectored by dagger nematodes, has a broad host range, thus 
alternate rotation crops should be evaluated for their virus host status. Crops that serve as 
virus reservoirs would be inadvisable for fruit orchard rotations. 


Other soil organisms may also be impacted by these crops and have long term effects 
on the subsequent orchard crop. Specifically earthworm populations, known to be negatively 
affected by chemical nematicides, may also be impacted by nematode suppressive crops. 
Because of their importance in improving soil structure, earthworm populations provide an 
important bio-indicator of the impacts of rotation crops. 


(3) Assess the economic implications of integrating alternate crop production into existing 
orchard practices. 


The economic feasibility of producing alternate rotation crops within existing orchard 
operations is a key factor in their widespread acceptance and implementation. Additional 


111 


costs of crop rotation such as labor, machinery, and delays in fruit tree planting must be 
calculated against reduced pesticide costs and any returns from the rotation crop. For a 
complete economic analysis, efficacy of crop rotation versus fumigation must be incorporated 
into a yield loss function that assesses both reduced yields and increased tree mortality 
associated with nematodes. 


(4) Disseminate research results via Extension and regional Extension Farm programs. 


Five major horticultural stations are located within 50 miles of research sites and 
frequent interactions with Extension specialists will serve to maximize dissemination and 
utilization of our research. Regional and national dissemination occurs via meetings with the 
Northeast Nematology Research Project, the Cumberland-Shenandoah Fruit Workers 
Conference, the Stone Fruit Decline Workshop, and national professional society meetings. 
Growers and crop consultants in the region readily adopt new production recommendations, 
especially when economic benefits complement improved environmental protection. As such, 
relatively simple educational materials, e.g., slide shows and video programs, will reach a 
wide audience through existing extension programs. These materials will also enhance 
dissemination of findings nationwide. 


Results 


Researchers found that some crops may provide environmentally sound and 
economical tactics for controlling soil-borne disease that affect the tree fruit industry. Two 
rotation crops, marigold and canola, effectively suppressed dagger nematodes. Canola, a 
brassica species, was easier to establish, more successfully competed with weeds and seemed 
to be resistant to tomato ringspot virus. 


Other brassica species have shown similar characteristics, but more research is needed 
to identify the best cultivars. No rotation was as effective as soil fumigation, although 
brassicas and marigolds were as effective after two years as post-plant nematicides in most 
experiments. 


Some rotation crops - wheat, oats and fescue - gave inconclusive results, while others - 
sunflower, sudan grass and alfalfa - were good hosts for dagger nematodes. 


Fruit growers have expressed interest in this work and researchers anticipate that an 
effective crop rotation program for dagger nematode control would be readily accepted. 


Project Duration: One year and seven months 


Funding: $28,000 in 1990; $30,745 in 1991. Matching, $55,003. 


big 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
Pennsylvania State 
University $31,064 $34,260 


West Virginia University 27,681 20,743 
$58,745 $55,003 


LNE90-23: THE INTEGRATION OF CROP (POTATO) AND LIVESTOCK PRODUC- 
TION SYSTEMS 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


University of Maine: Barbara A. Barton (Project Coordinator), Dept. of Animal, Veterinary 
and Aquatic Sciences, Orono, ME 04469, Phone: (207) 581-2733. Alfred Bushway, 
Dept. of Food Science, 105 Holmes Hall, Phone: (207) 581-1625; Robert Hough, 
Extension Livestock Specialist, 338 Hitchner Hall, Phone: (207) 581-2789; Gregory 
Proter, Dept. of Plant, Soil and Environment Sciences, 114 Deering Hall, Phone: 
(207) 581-2943. 


University of Maine Cooperative Extension: Leigh Morrow, Area Crops Specialist, Houltos 
Road, P.O. Box 727, Presque Isle, ME 04769, Phone: (207) 764-3361. 


Penn State University: D.R. Buckmaster, Agricultural Engineer, Dept. of Agricultural 
Engineering, University Park, PA 16802, Phone: (814) 863-0734. Harold Harpster, 
Dept. of Dairy and Animal Science, 306 Henning Building, Phone: (814) 863-0734. 


Overview 


Potato farms in New England can be characterized as monoculture production systems 
with a limited degree of integration with livestock production systems in the surrounding 
communities. Monoculture systems typically have less flexibility to respond to market 
fluctuations and fewer options available to improve sustainability. Some of the forces faced 
by potato producers in Maine include: input costs related to fuel, fertilizer, herbicide and 
pesticide purchases; rigid product quality standards; production practices that frequently 
influence water and soil quality; soil erosion and depletion of soil organic matter; cull and by- 
product handling and disposal; and limited economic incentives to practice crop rotation 
schemes which would improve soil, water and crop quality. The ability of producers to deal 


Li 


with these constraints is in part limited because potato farms are not integrated with other 
agricultural commodities, such as livestock. 


A more sustainable infrastructure would result from the integration of livestock and 
potato production by strengthening the market opportunities for currently unprofitable small 
grain/forage rotations and potato by-products. Enhancing rotation viability will also result in 
decreased soil erosion and increased potato product quality. Feeding livestock potato and 
other by-products not only provides an environmentally sound and value-added method of 
disposal, but also allows unutilized nutrients in the form of manure to remain in the system as 
soil amendments. 


Objectives 


(1) Develop a management plan for using potato and other crop by-products and rotation 
crops as feedstuff for cattle including: a) the conversion of an uneven supply of cull 
potatoes into a steady supply of a consistent animal feedstuff; b) the study of the 
nutrient variability and quality of potato and other selected agricultural by-products as 
components of livestock diets and the development of strategies for their utilization; c) 
the design of systems so that cull potatoes and animal manure are not an environmen- 
tal threat; d) the measurement of the characteristics of meat from animals fed potato 
culls and by-products as a major dietary component. 


(2) Assessment of the economic, environmental and biological efficiency of this system. 
Results 


Project participants were successful in helping to create a more diverse agricultural 
system that would utilize potato by-products, break up disease cycles, reduce the need for 
pesticides, increase the quality of the potato crop and boost profitability for farmers. Project 
participants helped build the infrastructure to support a more profitable and sustainable beef 
industry in Aroostook County through educational programs, marketing initiatives and 
research activities. 


Participants initiated an aggressive technology transfer program that included numerous 
educational activities for producers, obtaining and implementing low-cost designs for 
cattle-feeding facilities at several farms, and establishing a feeder cattle marketing system for 
Maine. Participants also worked with potato producers to shift rotation crops from oats to 
barley so that the grain could be used by cattle farmers in Maine. (Previously, potato 
producers in Aroostook County rotated primarily with oats, which were shipped out of state at 
relatively low prices, while cattle producers relied primarily on imported grain.) 


The project also conducted a research study to determine the minimum amount of dry 
matter needed to ensile potato waste. The goal of this portion of the project was to reduce 


114 


feed costs for cattle growers, create a market for potato by-products and to reduce 
environmental problems associated with runoff from potato wastes. 


Project participants consider the effort successful. Maine’s beef industry has doubled 
since 1988, with most of the growth in the state’s potato- 


growing region. Additionally, through marketing efforts, the value of the cattle inventory has 
more than doubled, with an increased return to the state’s economy of over $11 million. 


Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $43,000 in 1990. Matching, $19,182. 


Sustainable Matching 
Organization Agri. Funds Funds 
University of Maine $43,000 $19,182 


LNE90-24: SUSTAINABLE SOD PRODUCTION FOR THE NORTHEAST 
(Revised 1/4/91) 
Major Participants: 


University of Rhode Island: Richard A. Casgrande (Project Coordinator), Dept. of Plant 
Sciences, Kingston, RI 02881, Phone: (401) 792-2924. Serves as project coordinator 
and conducts direct insect research at URI, as well as coordinating insect research at 
the University of Massachusetts. W. Michael Sullivan, Agronomy, Dept. of Plant 
Sciences, will direct the agronomic aspects of this study, coordinating the work of URI 
field staff and local farmers, will also be responsible for the collection and analysis of 
samples for nutrient dynamics; Noel Jackson, Plant Pathology, Dept. of Plant Science, 
will assist Dr. Torello (see UM below) in laboratory work on endophyte transfers, and 
will monitor field plots of our blended sods for disease incidence; Dennis Wichelns, 
Resource Economics, Dept. of Resource Economics, will work with his graduate 
student to describe the economic implications of this system of sod production and 
compare it with traditional practices. 


University of Massachusetts: William Torello, Agronomy, Dept. of Plant and Soil Science, 
will direct the insect work conducted at Amherst, MA and work on endophyte 


eae 


transfers. He will also measure loline alkaloid levels in determining likely candidate 
grasses for insect resistance. 


USDA Resource Conservation and Development Program: Bryan Wofenden, RI Coordinator, 
will serve in an advisory capacity in this project, ensuring that useful elements are 
incorporated into the project, and that useful information is disseminated to growers 
and the public. 


Farmer Participants: 


Albert Turf Farms: Susan Albert, Slocum, Rhode Island, a member of the New England Sod 
Producers Association, will donate sod for the demonstration experiments on sod 
maintenance in the landscape, and will participate in seeding and fertilization experi- 
ments in her fields. 


South County Farms, Inc.: John and Myra Partyka, Heaton Orchard Road, West Kingston, 
RI, operate a diverse farm, marketing over 200 acres of sod annually. They will make 
several commercial plantings of new sod mixtures in their fields. Along with Ms. 
Albert, they will serve as a liaison between URI and commercial growers, facilitating 
information dissemination. 


Overview 


Turfgrass sod production is emerging as one of the few agricultural commodities that 
remain economically viable in Rhode Island and in urbanized areas of surrounding states. 
Presently, this sod consists almost entirely of Kentucky bluegrass, a crop that requires high 
inputs of fertilizer, water and pesticides for production and for maintenance in the landscape. 
Some sod growers are experimenting with new sod consisting primarily of tall fescue blended 
with bluegrass and other rhizomatous species needed to produce a harvestable sod. This shift 
in grass species is a response to consumer demands for sods with reduced maintenance 
requirements. Tall fescue is more tolerant of wear, low fertility, low moisture and shade 
conditions than most cultivars of Kentucky bluegrass. Many new commercially available 
varieties of tall fescue also contain an endophytic fungus which grows within the grass plant, 
further improving the plant’s tolerance to many stresses, especially insects. Recent research 
indicates that some endophytic tall fescue cultivars might be resistant to all common insect 
pests of turfgrass, including the Japanese beetle. 


This LISA project is intended to further the production and use of tall fescue and other 
low maintenance turfgrass sods. Specific research objectives address measuring the insect 
resistance of various mixtures of tall fescues and other grasses. Through another research 
objective, we are attempting to incorporate the endophyte-conferred resistance of tall fescue 
into other grasses which might also be useful in this project. Demonstration experiments are 
underway on the agronomic requirements for these new sod mixtures and we are working to 
describe the economic implications of this program of sod production vs. traditional bluegrass 


116 


culture. In another research component we are studying nutrient dynamics under sods 
produced and maintained with minimal inputs of water and fertilizer. 


Research results will be published in scientific journals and presented through several 
Cooperative Extension channels including CES publications, grower meetings, and growers’ 
field days. Demonstration plots will be planted, maintained and harvested by local commer- 
cial turf growers and will be toured during the annual turf field day and Sod Producers Field 
Days at URI (combined attendance over 1,000 from at least nine states). 


We expect to meet most of the objectives of this proposal between 1990 and 1993. 
Clearly some aspects such as persistence in the landscape will require additional time, and 
some other components will likely continue past the grant termination. Most work will be 
conducted at the URI campus and in nearby commercial sod fields. Because the insect 
resistance research is central to determining turfgrass blends, this aspect was conducted at URI 
and at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, MA during the 1990 season. 


Objectives 
(1) Insect _resistance. 


A great deal of effort has already gone into this aspect of the project, much of it in 
field evaluation of insect response to grasses and grass responses to insect feeding. Growth 
chamber studies are underway to refine our understanding of this relationship, as are 
laboratory studies to transfer endophytes between grasses. 


Field evaluations. 


As specified in our proposal last February, a series of plots was planted last spring 
with endophytic and non-endophytic plots of tall fescue, hard fescue, chewings fescue, and 
perennial rye grass. Bluegrass plots and mixtures of bluegrass with tall fescue rounded out 
the total of nineteen treatments, each replicated five times. The entire set of 90 plots was 
repeated at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Into these plots were placed screen 
cylinders, enclosing a 6-inch-diameter plug of grass plants, including soil and roots to a depth 
of eight inches. These cylinders were in turn inoculated with seven densities of Japanese 
beetle grubs, ranging from 0 to 24 grubs per cylinder. Following grub inoculation, plots were 
visually rated for damage every other week. In November most of these cylinders were disas- 
sembled, grubs were counted, and roots were measured. In Rhode Island, where the grubs are 
expected to successfully overwinter in these cylinders, the cylinders will be examined next 
season to monitor grass damage in the spring and early summer and to determine winter 
survival of the insects. 


Analysis of this very large and complex data set will require some time and these 


results will not be available until at least the first of the new year. However, a cursory 
review of these data indicates that there may not be any impact of endophytes, grass species, 


117 


or grass varieties on Japanese beetle survival under the conditions of this experiment (near 
optimum growing conditions). An interesting observation was that grub densities measured in 
November tended to plateau around nine grubs per cylinder (45/sq.ft.), even when three times 
that many grubs were introduced. Perhaps intra-specific competition (cannabilism?, 
territoriality?) are important in limiting the upper densities of grubs that can be achieved. 


A field survey of Japanese beetle grub densities in the 1987 Tall Fescue Variety Trial 
at URI tends to confirm these observations. Again, an incomplete analysis seems to indicate 
no relationship between endophyte content of the grass varieties and their associated grub 
densities. A very interesting observation made in these tall fescue plots was that there was no 
visable damage in any of the plots -- even those with very high grub densities. Several of 
these densities approached the plateau densities in our confined studies. Perhaps, due to the 
competition noted above, grub densities rarely reach levels damaging to tall fescue which, 
because of its relatively greater heat and drought tolerance, can outgrow grub damage -- even 
in midsummer. 


At present we are measuring root and foliage samples from the cylinders and preparing 
to measure levels of loline alkaloids in these samples. All grubs collected in these samples 
have been saved to determine their size and weight. Data are being formatted for analysis. In 
the future we want to repeat aspects of this fieldtest under rain out conditions where moisture 
levels are carefully controlled. We hypothesize that under low moisture conditions, stressed 
plants will produce more loline alkaloids, perhaps impacting on Japanese beetle survival. 
Greenhouse experiments are now underway in which endophytic grasses are being grown 
under different moisture levels to measure the impact of moisture on loline alkaloid 
production. Results of these tests will determine the range of conditions for next summer’s 
rain out trials. 


In growth-chamber studies, first-stage Japanese beetle grubs confined on germinating 
tall fescue seedlings experienced seventeen times more mortality on endophytic (e+) grasses 
than on non-endophytic (e-) varieties of tall fescues. When similar larvae were confined on 
plugs of field-grown mature tall fescue in the growth chambers, there was no apparent 
difference in survival on e+ versus e- tall fescue. Experiments are underway to determine the 
nature of this apparent resistance in germinating seedlings and these will be expanded in the 
future to determine whether this resistance exists with larger beetle grubs and in other species 
of endophytic grasses. 


Efforts to transfer Acremonium coenophialum into other grass species that do not 
normally contain this endophyte are progressing quite well. Endophyte from tall fescue has 
been introduced into callus tissue from red fescue and Kentucky bluegrass. To date, we have 
regenerated whole plants from inoculated callus tissue of Dawson red fescue and Pennlawn 
red fescue. When large enough, these red fescue plants will be examined for endophytic 
content. Kentucky bluegrass tissues remain in the callus stage, but by visual examination it 
appears that at least some are successfully inoculated. Alternative approaches for transferring 
endophytes are underway including embryo inoculations and inoculations of imbibed seed. 


118 


These latter approaches have resulted in some seedling plants on artificial media in petri 
dishes which will be transferred to the greenhouse and then examined for endophyte content. 
Other species of Acremonium are presently being isolated and cultured for additional transfer 
work. 


As these sythetic endophytic cultivars mature, plants will be divided and increased in 
the greenhouse. Loline alkaloid levels will be measured in the roots of these plants and 
compared to naturally endophytic tall fescue under different levels of drought stress. Any 
plants that seem to offer potential for insect control will be further propagated and moved to 
the field for evaluation. 


(2) Agronomic requirements. 


Work on this objective is well underway, although slowed by the lack of available 
alternative sods. In 1989, there were two plantings: one at URI and one commercial planting 
of tall fescue mixed with bluegrass. In 1990, we made additional plantings at URI and 4 
commercial growers also planted alternative sod mixtures. 


Grass mixtures. 


In URI plots we are evaluating plots of tall fescue mixed with 2%, 5%, and 10% 
Kentucky bluegrass, concentrating upon the 5% mixtures which we think will be ideal. 
Cooperating LISA grower Sue Albert has two fields of 95.5% (tall fescue, bluegrass) and 
other fields planted to various blends of bluegrass mixed with endophytic perennial rye grass 
and fine fescues. Another LISA cooperator, John Partyka, has planted a 12-acre experimental 
field using two cultivars of highly endophytic tall fescue and five varieties of Kentucky 
bluegrass. These seven grasses are planted in various combinations at various seeding rates. 
Two other local growers have planted tall fescue sods (one with netting to hold it together) 
and two are also experimenting with other mixtures of fine fescue and Kentucky bluegrass in 
their sods. All are sharing results with URI, but it is too early to draw many conclusions for 
these plantings, most of which are only a few months old. 


Seeding technique is one aspect on which we already have considerable data from last 
season’s work. It appears that because of segregation of the very different-sized seeds in the 
planter, it will be necessary to double-seed fields of tall fescue mixed with bluegrass. In 
fields that were planted first with one grass and then with the other, we find a uniform stand 
of mixed grasses. When seeds are mixed before planting, we do not find a uniform stand. It 
appears that 6-8 lbs. of seed per 1,000 square feed will be adequate for most turf-type tall 
fescues, but perhaps with the finest-leaved varieties 10 lbs. will be better. Seeding rate will 
get additional study next season. 


19 


Fertilization and irrigation. 


Results to date indicate that fertilizer required for producing tall fescue sod will be in 
the range of 3-5 lbs. Nitrogen per 1,000 sq. ft. per year (130-220 lbs./acre) -- somewhat less 
than Kentucky bluegrass sod. It appears that after establishment, no irrigation will normally 
be necessary to produce this sod which will result in a considerable savings over bluegrass 
sod. The relationship between fertilization, irrigation, and time to maturity is still under 
evaluation. Very early data indicate that 14-16 months will be required to grow harvestable 
tall fescue sod -- about the same time required to grow Kentucky bluegrass to maturity. 
(Some growers have pushed bluegrass sods with high fertilizer rates and harvested in twelve 
months or less, but the economics and environmental consequences of this are questionable.) 


(3) Nutrient dynamics. 


The tall fescue sod under investigation and the other mixtures under consideration all 
require less water and fertilizer than conventional bluegrass sod. Work done to date at URI 
indicates that there is little or no loss of nitrogen to groundwater unless turf is overwatered 
and overfertilized and even bluegrass sod should not result in any groundwater contamination. 
We have instrumented plots of all the common cool season turfgrasses to measure nutrient 
dynamics. Preliminary data indicate that tall fescue is more efficient at capturing nutrients 
than bluegrass. 


(4) Sod persistence. 


Work toward this objective was necessarily delayed until the tall fescue/bluegrass sods 
matured enough for transplant. In November, we harvested the first of these sods from LISA 
cooperator Sue Albert. We sodded three athletic fields in a demonstration experiment, and we 
have transplanted some of the sod to URI to begin the fertilization/irrigation/wear experiments 
described in the grant proposal. We also anticipate another demonstration experiment next 
spring where we shall transplant more of this sod into a URI horticultural display garden and 
compare its performance to traditional bluegrass sod and some other alternative endophytic 
grass mixtures under a moderate wear, low maintenance regimen. 


(5) Economics. 


Last fall a URI graduate student in Resource Economics was assigned to the Sustain- 
able Sod project to study the economic aspects of this program. At present, economic 
information is being gathered to establish a framework for evaluating the potential economic 
implications of producing alternative sod crops. A survey of economic literature is underway 
to locate recent articles on production and marketing implications of turfgrass sod. Specialists 
at state experiment stations in the northeast are being contacted to locate reports describing 
the farm-level economics of turfgrass sod production. Information gathered in these efforts 
will be used to develop baseline crop budget data for sod production. This budget will be 


120 


modified later to describe the potential economic implications of growing the alternative sods 
under investigation. 


From the limited experience of researchers and commercial growers of tall fescue sod 
in Rhode Island, it appears that relative to Kentucky bluegrass, this crop will be more 
expensive to seed, but cheaper to water and fertilize. Because end users will not need to 
irrigate tall fescue sod after establishment, they may save the cost of installing and using an 
irrigation system. If this tall fescue sod is endophytic, users will likely also experience a 
savings in pest control. The net result of these factors is that users may be willing to pay a 
premium for this sod. These aspects, among others, will be evaluated over the next several 
months and will require continued close cooperation among the academicians, farmers and 
landscapers under this LISA project. 


Project Duration: Two years 


Funding: $80,000 in 1990; $81,848 in 1991. Matching, $164,340. 


Sustainable Matching 
Be teers oot a rar Funds erry 


| University of Rhode Island of Rhode Island SSS 848 tna Bea siaae 4 | 340 


$161,848 $164,340 


LNE90-257: IMPROVING CROP ADAPTATION TO ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS 


(Revised 3/6/91) 
Major Participants: 


Cornell University: T.C. Barker, senior research associate, Dept. of Plant Breeding and 
Biometry, 252 Emerson Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853, Phone: (607) 255-2180. Corn 
breeder/cropping systems agronomist with 100% research appointment on low-input 
sustainable agriculture program, responsible for cropping systems design, on-station 
and on-farm field trial implementation, and data collection for major agronomic traits 
at Aurora, Canton and Chazy, and will supervise the technician who will support field 
and on-farm activities at all locations; W.D. Pardee, Dept. of Plant Breeding and 
Biometry, department extension leader with 85% extension and 15% teaching 


; This LISA project has now become an ACE project -- ANE91-1: IMPROVING 
CROP ADAPTATION TO ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS. 


Pal 


appointment, responsible for design and implementation of extension goals, and for 
coordination with collaborating extension personnel; Margaret E. Smith, Dept. of Plant 
Breeding and Biometry, corn breeder with 75% research and 25% teaching 
appointment, responsible for overall project coordination and design of breeding 
methodology. 


USDA/SCS: M. van der Gritten, Manager, Plant Materials Center, Big Flats, NY (Box 360A, 
RD #1, Rt 352, Corning, NY 14930). Soil scientist with 100% research management 
appointment, responsible for implementation of field trials and data collection at Big 
Flats; will also facilitate extension efforts through the SCS. 


USDA/ARS: R.W. Zobel, research geneticist, USDA/ARS and Dept. of Plant Breeding and 
Biometry, Cornell University, 1023 Bradfield Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853. Rhizobotanist 
with 100% research appointment, responsible for design and implementation of root 
research across cropping systems and for facilitating collaboration with ongoing 
Cornell Agronomy Department LISA project. 


Overview 


We propose to: 1) identify existing corn hybrids which are better adapted to specific 
LISA practices, and provide this information immediately to farmers and extension personnel; 
2) identify those traits which must be improved to better adapt corn to LISA conditions; 3) 
initiate a corn breeding program to adapt cultivars to existing and proposed LISA procedures 
to enhance productivity and stimulate adoption of LISA systems; and 4) work with farmers, 
extension agents and seed companies to improve availability of hybrids adapted to LISA 
systems and farmers’ ability to choose appropriate hybrids. 


To accomplish these objectives, research will be conducted on experiment stations at 
four locations (Aurora, Big Flats, Canton, and West Chazy), and extended to on-farm trials 
near these stations during the second and following years. Four cropping systems, established 
on-station in summer 1989, will be studied: 1) a conventional management system similar to 
that used in current corn breeding and production fields, with full tillage and nitrogen inputs, 
2) a no-till system with zero tillage and full nitrogen inputs, 3) a low-nitrogen system will full 
tillage but only a minimal starter nitrogen application, and 4) an interseeded system with full 
tillage, starter nitrogen application, and medium red clover sown between rows at lay-by. 


On-farm trials will be established in summer 1992 to compare two or more contrasting 
corn hybrids on two or more alternative management schemes. With a minimum of two on- 
farm sites near each of the experiment stations, we will obtain a substantial amount of data to 
indicate the effect of varying management and environments (soil types, moisture regimes, 
soil fertility, etc.) on cultivar and system performance. In addition, these on-farm trials would 
facilitate effective extension of results. Work with seed companies will focus on 
identification of current hybrids with good adaption to LISA systems and commercialization 


122 


of new cultivars developed. Educational programs for extension agents and farmers will 
enable them to select better hybrids to fit their LISA systems. 


Objectives 


Work will be initiated to address the following objectives during year one of the 
project. Their completion will require continuing support for the five-year duration proposed 
for this work; however, initial results and products which would be expected after year one 
have been noted for each of the objectives. 


(1) Identify existing corn hybrids which are better adapted to specific LISA practices than 
most, and provide this information immediately to farmers and extension personnel. 


Results of an initial year’s evaluation of corn hybrids in four cropping systems 
(conventional, no-till, low nitrogen, and red clover interseeding) will be available from trials 
grown at four locations, representing the range of environments from northern Pennsylvania to 
New England. 


Highlights of First-Year Results 


a. Medium-maturity hybrids under four cropping systems. 


A group of varieties was evaluated at two locations (Aurora and Big Flats, NY) under 
four cropping systems (conventional, no-till, low nitrogen, and red clover interseeding). 
Results of the medium-maturity hybrid evaluations indicate that the cropping systems chosen 
for study represent different environments, as evidenced by the significant differences 
attributable to cropping systems for numerous variables. Differences appear to be more 
clearly established at Big Flats than at Aurora. In addition, significant system by variety 
interactions for days-to-flower at Aurora and for percent-stalk-lodging at Big Flats indicate 
that all varieties do not respond the same way to these differing cropping systems. Similar 
patterns for grain yield data suggest that with better established treatment effects, significant 
interactions would become apparent for this variable as well. 


These interactions strongly suggest that 1) available varieties differ in their adaptation 
to LISA systems, and 2) there is genetic variation for adaptation to these systems which could 
be exploited via plant breeding. Finally, differences in the significance of variables and the 
performance of specific varieties at Aurora and Big Flats suggest that location effect may be 
quite important to evaluating performance under LISA systems. 


> Early-maturity hybrids under four cropping systems. 
A group of early-maturing varieties was evaluated at two locations (Chazy and Canton, 


NY) under four cropping systems (conventional, no-till, low nitrogen, and red clover 
interseeding). The early-maturity hybrid evaluation demonstrated more significant cropping 


123 


system effects than the medium-maturity evaluation, suggesting that the differences between 
systems may become more pronounced under short season conditions. Significant system by 
variety interactions were also more prevalent than in the medium-maturity evaluation, but in 
any case confirm the conclusions from that study as relevant to this group of early-maturity 
varieties as well (i.e., available varieties differ in their adaptation to LISA systems, and there 
is genetic variation for adaptation to these systems which could be exploited via plant 
breeding). 


C Commercial hybrid evaluations on farms. 


Large numbers of commercially available hybrids were evaluated in farmers’ fields, 
under the LISA practices those farmers are currently using. These evaluations included only 
one system on a given farm. Each variety was grown in a two-row plot (5m long, 75cm 
between rows), with three replications planted per farm in a rectangular lattice design. 
Maturity classifications and numbers of hybrids tested, location of the tests, and nature of the 
LISA practice(s) being used on the farms were as follows: 


Maturity # of Location LISA Practice(s) 
Classification Hybrids Used On The Field 
Tested 


Early Cattaraugus manure fertilization + 
rotation 

Early Ogdensburg manure fertilization + 
rotation 


[Mediumearly | __81 | Cortland | starter nitrogen only 
chisel plow 


Medium 56 | Big Flats chicken manure fertil- 
ization 


Identical trials were planted on conventionally managed farms, including early-maturity 
hybrids at Chazy and Fabius; medium-early-maturity hybrids at Lansing, Trumansburg, 
Knowlesville and Hall; and medium-maturity hybrids at Chemung and Mt. Morris. Data were 
collected in all trials on final plant stand, stalk and root lodging, percent grain moisture and 
field weight. Percent stalk and root lodging and grain yield are being calculated. Analysis of 
this data is still underway. Results will be published in the annual Cornell Corn Report and 
will ultimately be incorporated into the recommendations published annually in Cornell 


Recommends for Field Crops. 


124 


(2) Identify those traits which must be improved to better adapt corn to LISA conditions. 


Data on plant characteristics (vigor, light interception, canopy structure, tissue nutrient 
levels, root parameters, maturity, stalk quality, yield) and cropping system characteristics (soil 
nutrient levels, week populations and biomass) will be analyzed in relation to performance in 
the four cropping systems mentioned above. This will provide preliminary indications of the 
traits conditioning better adoption to LISA systems. 


In the medium-maturity and early-maturity variety trials conducted under four 
cropping systems described above, data on numerous plan characteristics were collected in 
order to determine which plan traits are associated with superior performance under LISA 
systems. Correlations with yield and subsequent regression analyses have been used to 
determine which traits are most closely associated with productivity. Analysis of the Aurora 
variety trial data indicated that number of plants emerged, chlorophyll reading at the 5-leaf 
stage, female flowering date, and final plan stand all showed significant correlations with 
grain yield. For the variety trial at Big Flats, number of plants emerged, chlorophyll reading 
at flowering, plant height, and final plant stand all showed significant correlation with yield. 


These results are encouraging in that plant emergence and stand establishment are 
simply measured traits for which variation among existing varieties was clearly documented in 
both the medium- and early-maturity variety trials. Hence they should be very susceptible to 
improvement by plant breeding. The relationship between chlorophyll readings and yield at 
both locations is encouraging as well, given that this measurement is fairly easily done, 
particularly relative to other measurements which might be considered in evaluating nitrogen 
use efficiency. 


(3) Initiate a corn breeding program to adapt cultivars to existing and proposed LISA 
procedures to enhance productivity and stimulate adoption of LISA systems. 


One year of selection will be completed for the four cropping systems mentioned 
above, thus improving the adaptation of breeding populations to each of these systems. The 
improved versions of these breeding populations will provide the basis for both further 
selection and improvement in subsequent years, and open pollinated variety development 
directly from the selected materials. Significant improvement in adaptation requires such 
years of selection, and clearly improved products will be available only after that time. 


A second cycle of divergent selection was performed on the four populations under 
improvement (Old Reid, New Reid, Old Lancaster, New Lancaster) for each of the four 
cropping systems (conventional, no-till, interseeding, low nitrogen). Twenty-one families 
from each population were evaluated in each cropping system in a single row plot (five 
meters long) with two replications at each of two locations (Aurora and Big Flats, NY). 
From each population, the seven best families from each cropping system were identified and 
sent to the Florida winter nursery for recombination among families selected from each 
population-cropping system combination. 


125 


We are pleased with the selection environments, since the same field strips of each 
cropping system are being used as were used in the medium-maturity variety by cropping 
system evaluation trials (described in section one above), and those trials provided ample 
evidence that the cropping systems chosen are different corn growing environments. Hence if 
there are genetically controlled traits for enhanced adaptation to these systems within our 
populations, we should certainly see improved adaptation to specific systems as a consequence 
of our selection efforts. At least three more cycles of selection will be needed before we can 
truly evaluate the potential for improving varietal adaptation to these cropping systems and 
analyze the resulting economic benefits. This information will be critically important to plant 
breeders and seed companies in determining how they will address variety needs for LISA 
systems. 


(4) | Work with farmers, extension agents, and seed companies to improve availability of 
hybrids adapted to LISA systems and farmers’ ability to choose appropriate hybrids. 


The project activities will be demonstrated at a minimum of three field days during 
year one. Discussion with extension agents and seed companies concerning the initial 
activities and results of this work will occur at various times during the year. In addition, at 
least three presentations to scientific audiences will be made. 


Numerous extension activities were carried out in this first few months of the project. 
These activities were focused not only on farmers and researchers, but also on seedsmen who 
will be the most immediate clients for some aspects of this work. A list of extension 
activities follows. 


a. Field days where this project was discussed: 


Cornell Soils, Crops and Atmospheric Sciences Department field day at the Aurora 
Research Farm, 13 July 1990. 


New York Agronomists and Resource Conservationists field tour at the Plant Materials 
Center, Big Flats, NY, 18 July 1990. 


Soil and Water Conservation Society -- New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania and 
Vermont Chapters’ field tour at the Plant Materials Center, Big Flats, NY, 19-20 July 
IST) 


Soil Conservation Society Area 1 Personnel field tour at the Plant Materials Center, 
Big Flats, NY, 24 July 1990. 


Agronomists, seed producers and plant breeders from Pioneer Hi-bred Seeds, Inc., field 
tour at the Aurora Research Farm, 23 August 1990. 


126 


Soil Conservation Society Area 2 Personnel field tour at the Plant Materials Center, 
Big Flats, NY, 6 September 1990. 


Soil Conservation Society Northeast and Midwest Plant Materials Meeting field tour at 
the Plant Materials Center, Big Flats, NY, 26-29 November 1990. 


b: Seminars and other formal presentations about this project: 


"Corn Adaption to Alternative Cropping Systems: A New Cornell Initiative" presented 
at the National Sustainable Agriculture and Natural Resources Conference, Lincoln, 
NE, 15-18 August 1990. 


"Breeding Corn for Alternative Production Systems" -- presented as part of the Cornell 
Plant Breeding Department Seminar Series, 13 November 1990. 


C: Publications discussing this research: 


M.E. Smith, W.R. Coffman and T.C. Barker, "Environmental effects on selection 
under high and low-input conditions," in Genotype-by- Environment Interaction and 
Plant Breeding, ed. M.S. Kang (Baton Rouge, LA: Louisiana State University, 1990), 
pp. 261-270. 


M.E. Smith and R.W. Zobel, "Plant genetic interactions in alternative cropping 
systems: Considerations for breeding methods," in Proc. Symp. Plant Breeding and 


Sustainable Agriculture: Considerations for Objectives and Methods, eds. D. Sleper, T. 
Barker and P. Bramel-Cox (ASA/CSSA, in press). 


T.C. Barker and M.E. Smith, "Corn adaptation to alternative cropping systems: A new 
Cornell initiative," in Proc. National Sustainable Agriculture and Natural Resources 
Conference, eds. C.A. Francis, J.L. Bushnell and R. Fleming (Lincoln, NE, 15-18 
August 1990), pp. 1-2. | 


Project Duration: One year 


Funding: $60,000 in 1990. Matching, $93,111. 


127 


Sustainable Matching 
Scr perma ota Funds reer 


Cornell | Comell University = siiteeitncinl Migs 63550 250 seimomate hates at6ren 616 


USDA/SCS 95750 9,495 
$60,000 $93,111 


LNE90-26°: ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES FOR CRANBERRY PRODUCTION IN 
THE NORTHEAST 


(Revised 1/14/91) 
Major Participants: 


University of Massachusetts, East Wareham, MA 02538: Anne L. Averill (Project Coordi- 
nator), Dept. of Entomology, entomology, biology and management of small fruit 
insects, Cranberry Experiment Station. Responsible for project oversight and budget, 
compilation of progress report, and compliance with all University, state and federal 
regulations. With the full-time research technician, she will coordinate 1) meetings 
among major participants; 2) information dissemination; and 3) all research and 
demonstration activity conducted by various participants on project bogs. In addition, 
she will serve as project expert on insect identification and management and coordinate 
work related to insect management strategies. 


Frank L. Caruso, Extension Plant Pathologist, cranberry diseases and their control, 
project expert on diagnosis of existing disease problems on the experimental sites, will 
design and coordinate on-farm experiments for the control of the disease(s) of 
economic importance at that site, comparing disease control with chemical fungicides 
to that using biological control measures, in particular, microbial fungicides. Will 
participate in the design of on-farm experiments to compare weed control by herbicide 
versus control by population-enhanced, naturally occurring weed-attacking microbial 
species (or a combination of both). Will evaluate on-farm experiments and choose the 
most effective treatments to use on integrated low-input demonstration site. Coordi- 
nates biological control experiments for fruit rot on varietal trials. 


Carolyn J. DeMoranville, cranberry specialist, plant nutrition and fertility, project 
expert on cranberry nutrition. She will coordinate all fertilizer use for the low-input 


" This LISA project has now become an ACE project -- ANE91-2: IMPLEMENTING AND 
EXTENDING LOW-INPUT CRANBERRY PRODUCTION. 


128 


experimental bogs and tissue analyses. Will monitor productivity on experimental 
bogs and water quality, as well as design and implement on-farm experiments to 
fieldtest fish hydrolysate fertilizers developed during the project. 


Karl H. Deubert, chemistry, project expert on water chemistry. He will coordinate 
water quality monitoring for low-input and traditional bogs. In addition, he will 
perform pesticide residue analyses on water samples collected during the project and 
develop timetable for sample collection. Also, will act as consultant on leaching rate 
studies of fish hydrolysate fertilizers. 


Susan Edwards, research technician, 100%, will interact with all major participants 
and, under their directive, coordinate field work by implementing low-input bogs and 
experimental plots. Will collect, sort and analyze materials. Will communicate all 
aspects of the project to growers in Massachusetts and New Jersey, and produce a 
newsletter and other printed materials. 


David Nolte, departmental assistant in Plant Pathology, 60%, will perform fieldtests 
for berry rot biocontrol, mycoherbicides experiments, spore trapping and the analysis 
of the spore trap data collection. 


University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003: Mary Jane Else, IPM Weed Specialist, 
Dept. of Plant and Soil Sciences. Project expert in weed identification and manage- 
ment, cooperator for mycoherbicide studies and development of timing of pre- 
emergence herbicides and studies of herbicide reduction/elimination. 


Pavince Chinachoti, Dept. of Food Science, Food Processing, will develop and 
evaluate methods (ultrafiltration and evaporation) for concentrating fish hydrolysate 
fertilizer to improve cost effectiveness. Will evaluate protein hydrolysis methods to 
find which produces the appropriate molecular weight profile for ultrafiltration. Will 
determine proper amount and timing for acid addition to the fertilizer. 


Bernard J. Morzuch, Dept. of Agricultural and Resource Economics, Agricultural 
Economics, project expert on economic analysis, will perform cost feasibility analyses 
for the project, including the cost to produce and market fish hydrolysate fertilizer in 
competition with inorganic fertilizers. Will project costs for all fish hydrolysate 
formulations developed. Will develop cost comparisons for low-input versus current 
practices on the bog systems as a whole. 


Ronald P. Athanas, Extension Administrator, Extension Marine Resource Program and 
Northeastern Region Extension, Marine Station, P.O. Box 7128, Lanesville Station, 
Gloucester, MA 01930, will act as production coordinator for the fish hydrolysate 
fertilizer -- contact person between academic researchers, the fisheries industry and 
commercial producers of fish hydrolysate fertilizers. He is responsible for 
dissemination of results from fish hydrolysate fertilizer production experiments to the 


129 


fisheries industry to encourage commercial production of low-cost fish hydrolysate 
fertilizer. Oversee studies to determine the optimum pH and shelf-life for the fish 
hydrolysate fertilizer as well as the investigation of fish hydrolysis using various 
processing equipment and enzymes. Facilitate movement of new fish hydrolysate 
fertilizers from the laboratory to the farm. 


Randolph T. Hatch, Biotechnica International, 85 Bolton Street, Cambridge, MA 
02140, Program Director, fermentation and biochemical engineering, will coordinate 
mass production of the three microbial fungicide candidates for fieldtesting. Will 
formulate the microorganisms in their most suitable state for ease of application, best 
disease efficacy. 


Ocean Spray Cranberries: 1 Ocean Spray Drive, Lakeville-Middleboro, MA. Each of these 
Ocean Spray scientists is responsible for the coordination of best management practices 
related to their respective expertise for Ocean Spray cranberry growers throughout the 
United States and Canada. Thus, they will provide not only expertise, but a line of 
communication to all Ocean Spray growers in North America. 


Charles C. Kusek, Crop Protection Specialist in Plant Pathology: Project expert on 
epidemiology, spore trapping, and flooding practices (late water). Cooperator for 
resistant varieties. Will assist in the identification of disease problems on the 
experimental sites. Will participate in the design of mycoherbicide experiments. 


Lawrence J. Dapsis, Entomologist and IPM Coordinator: Project expert on biorational 
approaches to insect management (microbials, nematodes, growth regulators). Will 
cooperate on cranberry fruitworn pheromone identification, trap development, and 
pheromone disruption techniques with NJ growers. 


Joan R. Davenport, Agricultural Specialist, Soil Specialist: Project soil expert, 
involved in water quality portion of the project as pertains to movement of fertilizer 
elements, including leaching studies of fertilizers developed. 


Rutgers University, New Jersey: Allan W. Stretch, Cranberry and Blueberry Research Center, 
Penn State Forest Road, Chatsworth, NJ 08019. Will design on-farm experiments for 
the biological control of berry rot. Experiments will target organisms which have 
economic impact in both Massachusetts and New Jersey cranberry bogs. Experiments 
will be carried out as plots on the low-input bogs. Along with Edwards, will 
communicate project results in New Jersey. 


Nicholi Vorsa, Plant Breeding, Associate Director of the Cranberry and Blueberry 


Research Center, will provide selections with potential resistance to fruit rot. Will 
consult on use of resistant varieties. 


130 


Cooperators: 

Ocean Crest Seaford: Edward McCollum, Owner and Treasurer, 88 Commercial Street, 
Gloucester, MA 01930. Will produce and provide currently available types of fish 
hydrolysate fertilizer for the low-input bogs. Will consult regarding feasibility of new 
formulations/techniques resulting from this project. 


Farmer Participants (Cranberry Growers): 


Decas Cranberry Company: John C. Decas, 219 Main Street, Wareham, MA 02571. 
Provides acreage for experimental sites, low-input and current-practice, including on- 
farm demonstrations. Acts as a member of planning team for management of low- 
input sites. Manages current-practice sites. As an influential independent Massachu- 
setts grower (i.e., a non-Ocean Spray grower), disseminates information to non-Ocean 
Spray growers. 


Gilmore Cranberry Company, Inc.: Kirby S. Gilmore, 670 Neck Road, Rochester, MA 
02770. Member of planning team for low-input site management. As a member of a 
cranberry company that has instituted water preservation initiatives, acts as a resource 
for ideas/potential problems regarding reduced-input cranberry farming. 


Beaton’s Cranberry, Inc.: Douglas R. Beaton, 2417 Cranberry Highway, Wareham, MA 
02571. Provides acreage for experimental sites, including component research and 
whole farm management. Member of planning team for low-input site management. 
Active and influential in the Massachusetts cranberry growing community as a member 
of the Boards of Ocean Spray and the Cape Cod Cranberry Growers’ Association, he 
will be important in communicating project results to other growers. 


Overview 


Low-input cranberry production is being demonstrated at four commercial bogs due to 
implementation of this project in 1990. A fifth site, under traditional management, is serving 
as a check bog. In comparison to bogs under IPM programs, significant reductions in 
pesticide and fertilizer inputs were achieved with no loss in fruit quality. Improved water 
quality was demonstrated in this first year and change in water quality continues to be a key 
objective owing to the intensive use of surface water in cranberry production. Due to the 
perennial nature of the crop, cranberry management systems must be evaluated over time 
(four to five years) before economic and productivity data become meaningful to growers. 
Thus, we are seeking the maximum continuation of 2.5 years. 


The northeast is the world’s largest cranberry growing region; however, bogs are 
concentrated in environmentally sensitive areas (NJ Pine Barrens, MA estuarine drainage 
basins). Environmental concerns pose a threat to cranberry farming by current practices that 
require intensive chemical inputs (ca. 2,500 tons of farm chemicals annually in the northeast) 
to maintain high yield. On the other hand, the market for cranberry products is increasing 


131 


and the economies of growing regions are heavily dependent on cranberry growing, directly 
and indirectly. In order to preserve the environment, as well as the cranberry industry, 
chemical inputs in cranberry cultivation must be lowered while preserving the profitability of 
this form of agriculture. 


Our goal remains the demonstration of low-input efficacy/profitability in cranberry 
production. Many of the scientists working on this project are involved in research aimed at 
lowering chemical inputs (mycoherbicides, disease-resistant varieties, biocontrols, non- 
chemical fertilizers). However, the majority of these techniques are unrefined and/or untested. 
This is the focus of the component research objective for the project, with a major focus to 
develop a novel type of fertilizer that is more efficient than current formulations, thus 
allowing substantial lowering of doses. Our long-term goal is to study low-input cranberry 
production from a whole-farm perspective, integrating, demonstrating and evaluating 
(including economics) prior and concurrent research in consultation with growers. 


Objectives 


(1) Continue demonstration of low-input practices, implement all low-input/sustainable 
methodologies as they become available through component research, and compare the 
results of these practices to results in bogs managed by currently accepted practices. 

(2) Continue to quantify effects of low-input production. 

(3) Produce further economic analysis of low-input production. 


(4) Continue to carry out demonstrations and communication. 


(>) Continue to conduct concurrent research projects: 


a. Weeds 

ee Diseases 

Ci Insects and Mites 
d. Fertilizers 


Project Duration: One year and seven months 


Funding: $60,000 in 1990; $68,458 in 1991. Matching, $229,340. 


132 


Sustainable Matching 
Pare em Eas Funds eee sa 


| University of Massachusetts of Massachusetts engi 3 9/458" 458 NES 95340, 340 


$128,458 $229,340 


LNE91-27; AN INTEGRATED RESPONSE TO POLLINATION-RELATED PROB- 
LEMS RESULTING FROM PARASITIC HONEY-BEE MITES AND THE 
AFRICANIZED HONEY BEE 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


USDA/ARS Bee Research Laboratory: Nicholas W. Calderone (Project Coordinator), 
Building 476 BARC-EAST, Beltsville, MD 20705, Phone: (301) 344-3974. Overall 
project coordinator and coordinator of demonstration breeding project and co-coordi- 
nator for evaluation of botanicals. G.C. Marten, Associate Director, USDA/ARS 
Beltsville Area, Rm. 402 NAL, Phone: (301) 344-3193. 


Cornell University: Lois Schertz Willett, Dept. of Agricultural Economics, Warren Hall, 
Ithaca, NY 14853-7801, Phone: (607) 255-4489, coordinator of economic analysis. 


University of Maryland: Gordon Allen-Wardell, Extension Apiculturist, Apiculture Building, 
College Park, MD 20742-5575, Phone: (301) 405-3953, co-coordinator for evaluation 
of botanicals; coordinator of educational program. 


University of Delaware: Dewey Caron, Dept. of Entomology and Applied Ecology, 248 
Townsend Hall, Newark, DE 19717-1303, Phone: (302) 451-2526. Project cooper- 
ator participating in evaluation of botanicals for mite control. Will provide equipment 
(both from local beekeepers and University facilities) and assist in execution of 
experiments. 


Ohio State University: Sue Cobey, Apiarist, W.C. Rothenbuhler Honey-Bee Laboratory, 
Columbus, OH 43210, Phone: (614) 292-7928. Project cooperator participating in 
the evaluation of stock for inclusion in the closed-breeding-population for tracheal mite 
tolerance. Will provide colonies and time for the evaluation of 100 honey-bee queens 
for mite tolerance. 


Iss 


Pennsylvania Dept. of Agriculture: James Steinhauer, Apiary Inspector, Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania, Dept. of Agriculture, Bureau of Plant Industry, 2301 North Cameron St., 
Harrisburg, PA 17110-9408, Phone: (717) 787-4843. Project cooperator participating 
in evaluation of botanicals for tracheal mite control. Will contribute the use of 
colonies, time for management of colonies and assist in data collection. 


Rutgers University: Frank Wojcik, Apiarist, J.B. Smith Hall, Cook College, Dept. of 
Entomology, Georges Rd., New Brunswick, NJ 08903, Phone: (201) 932-9564. 
Project cooperator participating in the evaluation of stock for inclusion in the closed- 
breeding-population for tracheal mite tolerance. Will provide colonies and time for the 
evaluation of 30-50 honey-bee queens for mite tolerance. 


Farmer Participants (Beekeepers): 


Beekeepers are participating in evaluation of botanicals for tracheal mite control. They will 
contribute the use of colonies, time for management of colonies and assist in data collection. 


Ernest H. Miner, Jr., 9933 Kelly Road, Walkersville, MD 21793, Phone: (301) 898-9290. 


Al Carl, Round Hill Orchards, Douglas Rd., Southampton, MA 01073, Phone: (413) 562- 
4985. 


Overview 


This project is addressing pollination-related problems from four perspectives. It is 
demonstrating a honey bee breeding project designed to develop mite-tolerant bees and offer 
alternative mite controls; it is evaluating naturally occuring plant compounds for mite control; 
it is developing an expert system model for bee keepers; and it is developing an educational 
video and booklet to help growers evaluate rented colonies. 


Honey bees provide essential pollination for over 90 commercial crops in the US. The 
added-value attributable to honey-bee pollination is estimated to be $19.9 billion. Farmers 
receive this service at a cost of only $50 million -- a return of nearly $398.00 for every dollar 
invested. The recent introduction of two parasitic honey-bee mites, coupled with the arrival 
of the Africanized honey bee in the southern US, threatens to destabilize the crop production 
system by reducing the number and quality of colonies available for pollination. 


Mites kill colonies. One chemical agent is presently available for control of each mite. 
This leaves the agricultural community at risk should the mites evolve resistance. Africanized 
bees are not manageable for pollination. Recent evidence demonstrates extensive 
hybridization of Africanized and domestic stocks in Argentina. North American honey-bee 
stocks are of the same origin as domestic Argentinean stocks. Consequently, extensive 
hybridization with North American stock can be expected. Queen- and package-bee producers 
in the US do not possess the skills to protect the germplasm of their production stocks from 


134 


introgression by this undesirable germplasm. These developments seriously compromise the 
ability of beekeepers to provide high-quality, manageable colonies for pollination. 


We propose a comprehensive package to resolve the pollination-related problems 
facing the agricultural community. A demonstration honey-bee breeding project will be 
established. Screening a large number of colonies for mite-tolerance will provide stock for 
incorporation into a closed-breeding-population maintained by instrumental insemination and 
genetically isolated from undesirable germplasm. Seminars will be conducted to facilitate the 
transfer of skills required for selection and maintenance of a closed-breeding-population to the 
queen- and package-bee industry. Africanized-free, mite-tolerant stock will be made available 
to the industry. 


Screening assays conducted at the ARS Bee Research Lab in Beltsville, MD identified 
several botanical compounds with low mammalian toxicity and significant acaricidal activity. 
Field trials will be conducted to evaluate the efficacy of these compounds as mite control 
agents in full-sized colonies. 


Maximizing the efficiency of beekeeping operations has become a critical concern. 
We propose to conduct an economic analysis of mid-sized, regional beekeeping operations to 
determine relationships among economic variables affecting operating efficiency. We will 
develop a user-friendly, computer-based Expert System model, based on that economic 
analysis, for use by beekeepers to enable them to make more efficient operating decisions. 


As the number and quality of colonies available for pollination diminishes, the proper 
management of remaining colonies becomes critical. Equally important is each grower’s 
ability to judge the quality of rented colonies. We propose an education program that 
addresses these needs. First is a demonstration of techniques to help beekeepers maximize the 
efficiency of colonies used for pollination. Second is a demonstration to teach growers 
techniques for evaluating rented colonies. 


Objectives 


(1) The development of mite-tolerant, Africanized-free, honey-bee breeding stock. 


This project will be conducted as a demonstration project and will serve as a 
mechanism by which to transfer closed-breeding-population technology to private-sector, 
queen- and package-bee producers. It is anticipated that a significant portion of the queen- 
and package-bee industry will shift to more northerly states, including the northeast. 
Therefore, not only will our demonstration project ensure the availability of manageable, mite- 
tolerant stock for pollination services, it will also act as a technical resource, assisting the 
development of a new industry in the region. 


(2) The evaluation of naturally occurring, botanical compounds, with low mammalian 
toxicity, for control of parasitic mites. 


135 


(3) An economic analysis of the requirements for the successful operation of mid-sized, 
regional beekeeping operations. 


These operations must be capable of meeting the pollination demands of growers in 
the northeast in a more efficient manner than is achieved with current practices; and a 
computerized, user-friendly, Expert System model based on that analysis for use by beekeep- 
ers to assist them in maximizing the efficiency and productivity of their operations. 


(4) The development of an educational/outreach program to: 


(a) assist beekeepers in managing their colonies in a manner that maximizes their 
value as pollination units, and 


(b) help growers become knowledgeable consumers of pollination services. 


Results to Date 


A program has been developed in response to the pollination related problems facing 
the agricultural community. A demonstration, honey-bee breeding project has been 
established. Approximately 100 colonies are in the first year of a two-year screening program 
for mite-tolerance. The best stock will be incorporated into a breeding-population maintained 
by the use of isolated mating stations, genetically isolated from undesirable germplasm. 


Screening assays conducted at the ARS Bee Research Lab in Beltsville, Md., identified 
several botanical compounds with low mammalian toxicity and significant acaricidal activity. 
An initial field trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of these compounds as mite 
control agents in full-sized colonies. A second round of trials is currently underway. Several 
of these compounds were also found to be effective in lab assays against the honey-bee 
pathogens causing chalkbrood, American foulbrood, and European foulbrood. This suggests 
that the complex of honey-bee parasites and pathogens may be controlled using a protocol 
combining a reduction in total pesticide load with environmentally safe chemicals. 


An economic analysis of beekeeping operations is being conducted to determine 
relationships among economic variables affecting profitability. This analysis is based on data 
collected from 474 beekeepers and is nearly complete. In the second year, we will develop a 
user-friendly, computer-based ’expert system’ model based on that economic analysis. The 
model will enable beekeepers to make more efficient operating decisions. The proper 
management of colonies becomes critical as their number and quality diminishes. Equally 
important is the grower’s ability to judge the quality of colonies rented for pollination. An 
education program addressing these needs is being developed. A script for a 30-minute video 
instructing growers on techniques for evaluating colonies has been developed and has been 
sent out for review. 


136 


Project Duration: March 1, 1992 through March 31, 1994 
Funding: $100,000 for two years. Matching: $284,376. 


1993 SARE Grant Amount: $39,250 (funding for two years to completion of project). 


Non-federal matching funds: $24,484. Other federal funds: $69,501. 
1991-1992 Matching 
Ras RT head oe ue aoe ae Funds ieee 
neti Oh A758" 708 


| University of Maryland = of Maryland rigitinean! alr erg 556 H 299 


USDA/ARS 50,760 1397955 
33,941 50,713 
$100,000 $284,376 


LNE91-28: THE NORTHEASTERN FARMER-TO-FARMER INFORMATION EX- 
CHANGE 


(Revised 4/14/93) 
Major Participants: 


Natural Organic Farmers’ Association Interstate Council: Margaret Christie, R137 Hyde Hill 
Road, Williamsburg, MA 01096, Phone: (413) 268-3824. 


Workshop Coordinators: Alex Stone, farmer and NOFA/MA Certification Committee 
Member, Box 1021, Belchertown, MA 01007. 


Enid Wonnacott, NOFA/VT State Coordinator and Certification Field Inspector, RR 1, Box 
177, Richmond, VT 05477. 


University of Vermont: Vernon Grubinger, Small Fruits and Vegetables Extension Specialist, 
UVM Cooperative Extension, West Brattleboro, VT 05301. 


University of Massachusetts: Ruth Hazzard, Vegetable IPM Coordinator, Dept. of 
Entomology, Amherst, MA 01003. 


1397 


Overview 


The Natural Organic Farmers’ Association Interstate Council consists of representatives 
from organic grower organizations from seven Northeastern states. The Council is proposing 
to test and evaluate a model for farmer-to-farmer education which meets the following goals: 
1) to facilitate information transfer between farmers and 2) to improve organic production 
practices. Ten grower meetings will be held over two years, focusing on organic management 
of four pre-selected crops: apples, strawberries, sweet corn and livestock herds (health). At 
these forums, farmers will meet with other farmers and agricultural professionals. Changes 
made in the production practices of participating farmers as a result of the meeting will be 
reviewed following the growing season. The success of this model at accomplishing the 
above goals will be evaluated by the participants and the model will be refined based on this 
assessment. 


Many organic farmers have been experimenting with innovative techniques for years 
but need more effective ways to transfer this information to other farmers and to gain 
valuable information from agricultural professionals. Some growers living in states which 
require whole-farm organic certification have found that their entire farm is ineligible for 
certification because they produce one crop which is difficult to grow organically. Other 
growers are actively looking for alternatives to production methods which, though organically 
acceptable, may not be environmentally benign, economically viable, or wholly effective. 
One participant in a pilot apple grower meeting held in March 1990 described this model as a 
"simply solid structure for.... constructive communication." If further testing and evaluation 
of the model confirm that it is an effective way to transfer information and improve produc- 
tion practices, it could be used by many private organizations, Extension agencies, or other 
state or federal programs working with farmers. 


Objectives 


(1) Test and evaluate a farmer-to-farmer model for the exchange of information on organic 
production practices and identify future applications for this model. 


(2) Improve organic production methods for selected crops through grower-to-grower 
exchange of information. 


(3) Link researchers and other agricultural professionals (extension, land grant, IPM) with 
organic farmers, and link farmers with other farmers to share strategies and 
experiences. 

Results To Date 
Eight to 12 growers of each commodity met for much of two days in the winter of 


1992, and will meet again in 1993. At the request of the farmer participants, resource people 
were also invited to attend. These included researchers, faculty, IPM specialists and 


138 


Extension agents from land grant universities, professional organic farming technical advisors, 
representatives of state departments of agriculture, and farmers recommended by others 
because of their experience and knowledge. Each meeting had two facilitators who assisted 
farmers in setting and following their agenda and moderated the discussions. Resource people 
sometimes made informal presentations but primarily were participants in discussions. 


Each meeting ended with a planning session on follow-up activities. These activities 
varied among groups, depending on the particular interests of the participants. All growers 
planned to test some of the techniques and ideas discussed at the meeting on their own farms; 
the results of these informal trials will be discussed at the 1993 meetings. Additional 
activities ranged from IPM scouting training to replicated research trials on research farms and 
testimony before the National Organic Standards Board on regulations affecting organic 
livestock producers. 

Project Duration: Two years 


Funding: $24,856 for the first year; $23,312 for the second year. Matching, $54,890. 


LNE91-29: FARMER-TO-FARMER DIRECTORY AND CONFERENCE 

(Revised 4/14/93) 

Major Participants: 

Maine Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association: Eric Sideman (Project Coordinator), 
Director of Technical Services, P.O. Box 2176, Augusta, ME 04338, Phone: 
(207) 622-3118. Nancy Ross, Executive Director; Susan Pierce, Special Events 
Director. 

University of Maine: Richard Brzozowski, Cooperative Extension; Matt Liebman. 

Maine Dept. of Agriculture: Russ Libby, Research Director. 

Maine Association of Conservation Districts: Bill Bell, Executive Director. 

Agricultural Council of Maine: Ed McLaughlin, President. 

Overview 

Surveys of conventional farmers have identified the lack of useful information as the 


major impediment to adoption of sustainable practices. Furthermore, farmers seeking 
information have difficulty in obtaining it from traditional sources such as Extension 


139 


Educators or farm chemical and feed dealers. Surveys of farmers already using sustainable 
practices indicate that they have relied on other farmers for guidance. The conclusion is that 
the major barrier to conversion is identification of and contact with enough successful 
growers. 


Under the proposed project we will develop a farmer directory that will include short 
descriptions of individual sustainable practices and whole-farm systems. Sustainable practices 
will be identified by the major participants including the farm consultant with MOFGA, 
Extension Educators, the research director at the Maine Dept. of Agriculture and the director 
of the Sustainable Agriculture Program at the University of Maine. Major participants will 
use the directory to plan field days on suitable farms. 


In order to further facilitate exchange between farmers at different stages of adoption 
of sustainable practices, we will develop and sponsor an annual farmer-to-farmer conference. 
The heart of the conference will be direct farmer-to-farmer exchange of information rather 
than lectures. 


The proposed project will be designed to serve other states as a model of low-cost 
information exchange. MOFGA will work with states interested in developing a directory and 
conference. 


Objectives 


(1) Create a directory of farmers who have implemented LISA systems, to include a brief 
description of each farm and of LISA practices and their effectiveness. Identify farms 
in the directory suitable for field days and hold field days. 


(2) Conduct an annual regional farmer conference to share information on practices, 
transition strategies, economics, etc. 


(3) Develop support materials so that the directory and conference can serve as a model 
for other states. 


Results to Date 


At this time, we are in early stages of describing farms and practices for the directory. 
We have identified and made contact with over 100 farmers to date. Preliminary descriptions 
of sustainable practices in areas including cover cropping, composting, weed control, erosion 
control, pest management, livestock nutrition, soil fertility, manure management, and 
marketing have been received. Work is just beginning on development of the database for the 
directory. During the winter-summer of 1993 identification and survey of farms will 
continue. At the same time the description of the practices on the farms will be written and 
the directory compiled. 


140 


The first Farmer to Farmer Conference was held November 14-15, 1992 at Northern 
Pines Conference Center in Raymond, Maine. Seventy-five farmers participated in a format 
that integrated lectures, workshops, and open time to maximize farmer-farmer contact. Two 
Extension personnel and twelve farmers presented and facilitated sessions on poultry, 
vegetable season extenders, livestock health, flowers for market, maximizing forage and 
reducing grain, and marketing strategies. The conference was a great success as indicated by 
early review of the evaluations. 


The project will not begin developing support materials until the summer of 1993. 
Project Duration: Two years, March 1, 1992 - March 1, 1994 


Funding: $8,500 in the first year; $13,000 in the second year. Matching, $26,000. 


LNE92-30: DECISION MAKING IN SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE SYSTEMS -- 
PLANNING GRANT 


Major Participants: 


University of Southern Maine: Michelle J. Hutt, assistant professor of psychology, project 
coordinator. Will be responsible for experimental design and methodology, developing 
and administering education curriculum, collecting and analyzing data and 
disseminating project results. 


Guy K. Hutt, director, Wolfe’s Neck Farm, Freeport Maine. Will be responsible for 
experimental design, developing and administering educational curriculum, collecting 
data and disseminating project results. 


Overview 


Increasingly, educators acknowledge what researchers in cognitive psychology have 
consistently found to be true: It is not enough to merely provide students with information. 
Quality education must also teach participants how to think and solve problems. In situations 
where the current technology will likely be "obsolete" in 10 years, education that targets ways 
to process information -- how to think or make decisions-- rather than information alone is 
likely to be more profitable and successful. 


Similarly, research also suggests that individuals at all ages learn best through active, 
rather than passive, methods. Despite this fact, little has been done to develop such curricula, 
particularly for adult learners. Most educational experiences for adults involve only lecture or 
demonstration. This situation is true in the field of sustainable agricultural education. 


141 


Today’s farmer faces an extremely complex and challenging task in managing a 
successful enterprise. While technology advances by leaps and bounds, and studies based in 
the natural sciences proliferate, few inquires into the social science aspects of implementing 
and maintaining successful agricultural systems exist. Little has been done to understand or to 
teach agriculturalists how to make effective decisions. Additionally, there is no curriculum 
that can be used by educators or extension professionals working in the field. 


This project will begin to address these issues through a planning grant. Researchers 
will conduct an exploratory, descriptive examination of what distinguishes two groups of 
farmers: those who are leaders in adopting sustainable agriculture and those who are 
continuing with more conventional methods. This information will then be used to design and 
larger research study into the decision-making process in sustainable agriculture. 


Project Duration: One year 
Funding: $5,000. 


Organization SARE Funds Matching Funds 
University of Southern Maine $5,000 $8,400 


LNE92-31: DEMONSTRATING THE ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
ADVANTAGES OF LEGUME COVER CROPS TO NEW ENGLAND VEGETA- 
BLE GROWERS 

Major Participants: 

University of Massachusetts: Stephen Herbert, Ph.D., professor/Extension agronomist, Dept. 
Plant and Soil Science. Will serve as project coordinator and conduct Massachusetts 
field studies. 

Francis Mangan, M.S. Dept. Plant and Soil Science. 

Mary Jane Else, M.S., Extension IPM Weed Specialist, Dept. Plant and Soil Science. 


University of Maine: Matt Liebman, Ph.D., assistant professor, Department of Soil and 
Environmental Science. 


Timothy Griffin, Ph.D., Sustainable Agriculture. Ag. Specialist, Maine Cooperative Extension. 


Maine Department of Agriculture: Russell Libby, research director. Will evaluate economics 
of alternative cover crop strategies. 


142 


Maine Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association (MOFGA): Eric Sideman, Ph.D., director 
of technical services. Observe and monitor cover crop development in farm studies in 
central Maine. Attend annual meetings of project participants providing linkage 
between this project and the LISA ’Farmer to Farmer Directory and Conference’ 
project lead by Dr. Sideman. 

Rodale Institute: Rhonda Janke, and Mary Ann Sarrantonio, research scientists, Attend annual 
meetings of project participants providing linkage between this project and other 
projects on cover crops, supported by the Sustainable Agriculture Program and US 
AID, at Rodale Institute and in the southern part of the Northeast region. 


University of Vermont: Vernon Grubinger, Ph.D., Extension Assistant Professor, Vermont 
field studies. 


Grower Participants: 

Tom Calabrese, 257 Feeding Hills Road, Southwick, Massachusetts 01077 

Mario Marini, Marini Farms, 253 Linebrook Rd., Ipswich, Mass. 01938 

Steve Clegg, 363 Warren Ave., Seekonk, Mass. 02771 

Jim Ward, 614 South Main St., Sharon, Mass. 01067 

John and Carol Ogonowski, 713 Broadway Road, Rte 113, Dracut Mass. 

Al McKinstry, 753 Montgomery St., Chicopee, Mass. 01013 

Tom Harlow, Box 134, Westminster Station, Vermont 05759 (Farm is in New Hampshire). 
Jack Manix, RD 2, Box 556, Putney, Vermont 053467 

Eugene Coombs, Box 2100, Troy, Maine 04987 

Larry Allen, Box 178, Westminster Station, Vermont 05159 

Paul and Susan Harlow, Harlow Farm, RFD 1, Bellows Falls, VT. 05101 

Paul Volckhausen, Happy Town Farm, RR 2 Box 3760, E. Holden, Maine 04429 
Garry Gemme, RFD 69, Long Plain Rd., South Deerfield, Mass. 01373 


David Holm, Farm Manager, Farm Center, Hampshire College, Amherst, Mass. 01002 


143 


Mike Wisseman, 159 Old Amherst Road, Sunderland, Mass. 01357 

Arnie Voehringer, P.O. Box 31, Belchertown, Mass. 01007 

David Marchant, RR2, Box 3650, Fairfax, Vermont 05454 

Research Farms 

University of Massachusetts Research Farm, River Road, South Deerfield, Massachusetts. 


University of Maine Sustainable Agriculture Research Farm, Bennoch Road, Stillwater, 
Maine. 


UMass. Suburban Experiment Station, Beaver Street, Waltham, Massachusetts. 
Overview 


As integral components of sustainable agriculture, cover crops reduce erosion and 
control weeds. In addition, legume cover crops such as hairy vetch, vicia villosa, can reduce 
farmers’ inputs of nitrogen (N) fertilizer. Legumes have proven to be effective cover crops in 
warm climates, but perceived problems have limited their utilization in New England. 


In this project, we will extend information concerning best management practices for 
cover crops through 17 on-farm demonstrations and eight field studies on three research farms 
where field days will be held. Our hypothesis is that farmer concerns about insufficient 
establishment time, winter-killing, and increased weediness with legumes are not justified. 
Three years of data collected in four New England states have demonstrated the ability of 
cover cropping systems to reduce N, herbicide and fossil fuel inputs. By establishing on-farm 
demonstrations and conducting a series of extension activities, including twilight meetings, 
field day, workshops and information services, we will ensure that our research findings, and 
those of other researchers, are rapidly implemented by farmers throughout New England. 


Emphasis is placed on quantifying N contribution from rates of hairy vetch as low as 
20 lbs/acre, which are significantly lower than the previous recommendation of 40 Ibs. 
Seeding rate greatly influences the economics of using cover crops and large expenditures on 
seed could be an important reason for the lack of adoption of cover cropping practices by 
many growers. Preliminary studies have shown seeding rates may be reduced without loss in 
vetch bioassays and N contribution. Should this be feasible throughout the region, hairy 
vetch/rye cover crops would be more profitable than rye alone. 


A second area of emphasis in this proposed project is demonstrating to farmers the 


potential N contribution and weed suppression effects from winter-killed cover crops. These 
can be planted into in early spring without knock-down herbicides and little or no tillage. 


144 


A third area of emphasis is a comparison of N contribution and weed control from 
hairy vetch cover crops that are either incorporated into the soil with conventional tillage 
practices or mow-killed and left as surface mulches for no-till vegetable production systems. 
Vegetables to be grown following cover crops include beans, cabbage, squash and sweet corn. 


This project continues, in part, work initiated under two 1989-91 LISA program grants 
It is a five state, multi-disciplinary effort involving 17 growers (conventional and organic), 
three land grant universities, two private agricultural extension/research and education 
organization, and one state department of agriculture. The total two-year budget of $276,946 
consists of $152,039 in matching funds and a request for $124,907 from the Sustainable 
Agriculture program. 


Objectives 


(1) Conduct farm-scale demonstrations of hairy vetch/rye cover crops and determine 
regional variability of hairy vetch nitrogen supplying capacity at varying seeding rates. 


Currently winter rye, Secale cereale, is the predominant cover crop used in New 
England. Three years of research supported by the LISA granting program, however, have 
demonstrated several benefits of the winter annual hairy vetch not provided by rye. Vetch has 
provided substantial amounts of nitrogen (N) to the soil, in some situations eliminating the 
need for additional N fertilizer. 

Perceived problems, however, have limited the utilization of vetch and other legume 
cover crops in New England. Farmers have raised concerns about the high seed cost of hairy 
vetch, poor fall growth, winter-killing resulting in a lack of spring cover, and a fear of 
excessive growth in the spring being difficult to incorporate with present tillage equipment. 

Hairy vetch has survived harsh winters from Connecticut to Maine and has been 
successfully integrated into crop rotations by some growers. Our previous research has shown 
similar N contribution from 20 lbs. of vetch compared to the previously recommended 40 
Ibs./acre. While it is not known if this N contribution holds true throughout the region, if it 
does, a clear economic advantage will be demonstrated over rye alone. Therefore, regional 
variability of N contribution still needs to be determined. 


(2) Evaluate (and demonstrate to vegetable growers) hairy vetch/rye and hairy vetch/oat 
cover crop systems for weed suppression and nitrogen contribution with conventional and 
reduced tillage systems, and evaluate nitrogen movement toward ground water 


To help ensure public support and to benefit from direct marketing opportunities, 
farms should employ sustainable agricultural practices that minimize hazards to farmers, 
consumers and the environment. The hairy vetch/rye cover crop has shown promise in 
controlling weeds when mowed and left as a mulch on the soil surface. 

Our preliminary research has shown increased competitive suppression of weeds when 
legume residues serve as the major N source for crops. Integrated studies are needed to 
evaluate crop nutrition and weed management in cropping systems dependent on slow release 


145 


of N from legume residues vs. rapid release from synthetic fertilizer. Reduced tillage with 
hairy vetch and winter killed oat (Avena sativa), and mow-killed hairy vetch/rye after rye 
stem elongation, have been found to reduce herbicide applications and provide some weed 
suppression. Further investigation of the availability of N from no-till surface mulch systems 
and seasonal N loss from tilled systems compared to synthetic N fertilizer are needed. 


(3) Demonstrate the economic advantage of legume/grass cover crops 


To encourage farmers to use alternative cover crops, clear economic advantages must 
be demonstrated. However, because cover crops increase profits by lowering input costs rather 
than increasing yields, enterprise budgets for these systems must be integrated into a 
whole-farm financial analysis to enable farmers to make sound management decisions 
regarding cover crop practices. To ensure credibility, we will use economic data collected 
from commercial New England vegetable farms. Finally, even if a new cover cropping system 
is a biological and economic success, only extensive outreach efforts will ensure widespread 
adoption. Therefore, as part of this project, we will convene twilight meetings, farm field 
days, workshops and offer access to written information and researchers in addition to the 
large farm-scale field plots. 


Project Duration: Sept. 1, 1992 through January 31, 1995 
Funding: $100,000 


Organization SARE Funds Matching Funds 
MOFGA $800 

Maine Ag Dept. $5,300 $1,440 
Univ. of Maine $30,500 $76,405 
Univ. of Mass. $52,600 $67,904 
Rodale $1,800 

Univ. of VT $9,000 $6,290 


146 


LNE92-32: A LIVING LABORATORY/CLASSROOM FOR THE INTEGRATION OF 
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION EFFORTS ON ALTERNATIVE VEGETABLE 
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS 


Major Participants: 


The Pennsylvania State University: Kenneth Steffen (Project Coordinator), Assistant professor 
of vegetable crop physiology, Department of Horticulture, University Park, PA 16802; 
Michael S. Dann, project assistant; Shelby J. Fleischer, Assistant professor of 
entomology; Jayson K. Harper, Assistant professor of agricultural economics; Felix L. 
Lukezic, Professor of plant pathology; Jonathan P. Lynch, Assistnt professor of plant 
nutrition; and Michael D. Orzolek, Professor of horticulture. 


County Extension: 


Jeff Mizer, Multi-county Extension agent, Snyder County Courthouse, PO Box 217, 
Middleburg, PA 17842. 


Farmer Participants: 


Jim Crawford, Organic grower of vegetables and fruits, HCK 71, Box 168B, Hustontown, PA 
17229. 


Sam Everhart, Mixed-grain livestock, processing vegetable grower, 3261 Shingletown Rd, 
State College, PA 16801. 


Ward Sinclair, Organic grower, Flickerville Mt. Farm & Groundhog Ranch, Route 1, Village 
of Dott, PA 17267. 


Paul Zimmerman, Fresh-market vegetable grower, RD 3, Box 186, Mifflinburg, PA 17844. 
Qverview 


Participants will evaluate ecological, agricultural and economic performance of five 
vegetable production systems ranging from a certified organic operation to conventional 
agrichemical and tillage system. 


There are a number of obstacles to efficient development of more sustainable vegetable 
production practices. First, is the lack of scientific information on the relative ecological, 
agricultural and economic performance of current vegetable management systems, which 
hinders implementation of practically tested approaches. Secondly, is the lack of research 
data on the complex interactions occurring within vegetable crop ecosystems, which hinders 
the development of innovative and more sustainable approaches. thirdly, is the lack of 


147 


understanding among the general public of either agricultural production or the research 
process, which creates an atmosphere of uncertainty that adversely effects the soundness of 
legislative policy. There is an urgent need to address these problems in a timely fashion. 
Environmental groups are primarily concerned about irreparable damage to our natural 
resource base, while agricultural groups are primarily concerned with protecting their 
livelihood in the face of restrictive legislation. this project proposes to expand research on an 
integrated research/teaching platform or ’living laboratory/classroom’ for the evaluation and 
development of innovative vegetable production strategies. this platform, which currently 
represents a two-year multidiscplinary and grower research effort, consists of four adjacent 
fields in a four year rotation of vegetable crop. Three soil management approaches and three 
pest management approaches are combined to create five different management systems which 
range from ‘certified organic’ to conventional agrichemical and tillage approaches. In 
addition, four plots per replication are available for single component variations of the five 
main approaches. Baseline data are continually monitored on economic of all inputs, weather, 
plant growth and development, soil properties and nutrients, arthropods, pathogens, plant 
tissue nutrients, yield and quality, human nutritional quality, consumer acceptance, post- 
harvest storability, and projected economic returns. Priority research areas have been 
identified, and investigators will use these baseline data, and studies embedded into the 
platform and on grower’s fields, to improve water use efficiency, nutrient cycling, 
nonchemical weed control, environmentally benign disease control, arthropod ecology and 
management, and production economics of alternative vegetable production systems. 
Repeated, structured in-field educational programs are designed as part of the 
research/teaching platform as well as newsletters, and Extension programming to ensure an 
evolution of alternative vegetable production systems. 


Objectives 


l. To evaluate the ecological, agricultural, and economic performance of alternative 
vegetable production systems, comprised of generally tested and newly developing 
practices, as well as single-component variations of these systems. 


Baseline Data to be Collected: 


all inputs (amounts and cost) of labor, equipment, and materials 
official weather station data 

plant growth and development 

soil properties and nutrient analyses 

arthropod density and damage 

pathogen epidemiology and plant damage 

plant tissue analyses 

yield and grade of produce 

produce nutritional quality 

consumer acceptance of produce 


Sor pga tho po op 


148 


k. post-harvest storability of produce 
1: projected economic returns 


Z To investigate, using a focused team approach, complex biological processes and their 


economic implications in high-value, vegetable production systems in order to develop 
more resource efficient and environmentally sound management systems. 


Priority Research Areas to be Studied: 


a. water use efficiency 
b. nutrient cycling 
CA nonchemical weed management 
d. environmentally benign materials for disease control 
2, arthropod ecology and management 
r. production economics 
Ss To involve the general public (rural and urban dwellers, legislators, growers, extension 
agents, students, other researchers) in agricultural research as an integrative interactive 
process. 


Educational Mechanisms Utilized in ’Living Laboratory/Classroom’ Platform: 


series of workshops in field platform and classroom 

closely-linked cooperating farm tours 

quarterly newsletter of progress in platform and cooperating farms 

winter conference on platform results, sustainable vegetable production, and 
future plans 


Go > 


Project Duration: 


Funding: 1993 SARE Grant Amount: $120,000 for one year. Non-federal matching funds: 


LNE92-33: FUNGAL PATHOGENS FOR BIOCONTROL OF WESTERN FLOWER 
THRIPS AND GREEN PEACH APHID IN GREENHOUSES 


Major Participants: 


University of Vermont: Bruce L. Parker Ph.D., professor of entomology, and Michael Brown- 
bridge, Ph.D., research assistant professor and insect pathologist, co-investigators. 
Also: Margaret Skinner, M.S. laboratory and field technician; John P. Hayden, M.S., 
research technician; Donald L. McLean, entomology professor; Leonard Perry, Ph.D.., 
extension horticulturist and greenhouse specialist. 


149 


Cornell University: Gerard Ferrentino, M.S., specialist in greenhouse IPM; John P. Sanderson, 
Ph.D., IPM greenhouse specialist. Jennifer A. Grant, greenhouse Extension specialist, 
Geneva Experiment Station. 


USDA-ARS: Richard A. Humber, Ph.D., specialist in taxonomy of insect fungi. 


Adrian T. Gillespie, Ph.D., insect pathologist for Chr. Hansen’s Biosystems, Denmark, 
a commercial producer of Verticillium lecanii in Europe. 


Grower Participants: 
David G. Marshall, greenhouse manager, Mailloux Greenhouses Inc., Ferrisburgh, VT. 


Chris Conant and Thomas J. Doubleday, Claussen’s Florist and Greenhouse, 
Colchester, Vermont. 


Overview 


Western flower thrips (WFT) and the green peach aphid (GPA) are major economic 
threats to the greenhouse industry. Control with conventional techniques is difficult, costly and 
often ineffective. Furthermore, it is complicated by the development of insecticide resistance. 
Innovative approaches to management are needed. 


Our objectives are to investigate the insect pathogenic fungi Verticillium lecanii, 
Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae and Paecilomyces farinosus for ultimate 
incorporation into greenhouse IPM strategies. 


We have already shown that a number of our fungal isolates are highly pathogenic to 
WFT. Bioassay tests will allow us to select the most lethal and versatile ones for evaluation in 
greenhouse pilot tests. We will study the performance of select isolates against WFT on plants 
and in the soil. This will enable us to identify strains that are efficacious and the insect stage 
that can be most effectively targeted for WFT management. We will determine the persistence 
of fungal inoculum in soils to ascertain if stable fungal populations develop to provide a long 
term reservoir of infective material and ultimately how often treatments should be applied 

Preliminary pathogenicity studies indicate that a number of the WFT-active fungal 
strains are also active against GPA. Additional fungal isolates need to be screened and 
quantitative bioassays performed. With this broad base of strain types, we will be able to 
identify the best and most suitable strains for management. By initially selecting 
WFT-pathogenic strains, we will also be able to show which strains have potential for use 
against other pests, making them more cost-effective for greenhouse use. 


150 


Objectives 


(1) Determine the on-plant efficacy of select fungal isolates against western flower thrips 
(WFT). 


In our research on the biological control of pear thrips, Taeniothrips inconsequens, a 
new pest of sugar maple, we discovered strains of the fungus Verticillium lecanii causing 
significant mortality. We have found that these strains are highly pathogenic to WFT. In fact, 
they are significantly more pathogenic than other V. lecanii strains, including those presently 
used commercially in European greenhouses. 

WFT has become one of the most serious pests in the greenhouse industry. It attacks virtually 
all floricultural crops, and in the East is the primary vector of the tomato spotted wilt virus in 
ornamental and vegetable plants. 

Damage thresholds for floricultural crops are low or nonexistent, particularly for pests 
like WFT that attack the flower - the most important part of these aesthetic crops. Flower 
damage results in reduced yields, lower market values and increased costs for repeated 
pesticide applications. 

Chemical control of WFT is hard to ensure because the insect hides deeply in plant 
crevices making contact with pesticides difficult. Additionally, WFT develops resistance 
quickly. Reinfestation through migration into greenhouses is an additional problem. 

Entomopathogenic fungi offer a viable biocontrol option as they are particularly 
well-suited to humid greenhouse conditions, and some species are relatively easy to mass 
produce. Pathogenicity varies among V. lecanii strains and among other entomogenous fungi 
so screening and evaluation is essential for development. 

The pathogenicity to WFT of 11 V. lecanii isolates, and three strains of Beauveria 
bassiana (two from thrips) and Metarhizium anisopliae has been demonstrated. Each has 
specific biocontrol merits and we need to further select and develop them for greenhouse use. 

WFT is found on plants and in soil, so we will evaluate the performance of select 
pathogens against stages found in these two environments. This will provide information that 
will enable us to identify which strains should be used, and the insect stage and greenhouse 
habitat to target. | 


(2) Determine the persistence of fungal inoculum in greenhouse soils. 


Infection in soil of WFT and other greenhouse pests is dependent on contact with 
sufficient infective units. Persistence of infective propagules in soil increases the probability 
of contact with a susceptible host, thereby enhancing the possibility of infection. 

Soil provides favorable moisture and temperature for persistence of fungal conidia and 
is the natural reservoir of fungi such as B. bassiana, M. anisopliae and V. lecanii. Conidia of 
B. bassiana persist in soil for 2 years, and M. anisopliae can survive and multiply in the soil 
over time. The survival of V. lecanii is uncertain, though we know it is strongly influenced by 
soil factors. Information on the survival of fungal inocula is essential to ascertain how often 
treatments should be applied and whether a stable population is present to provide a long term 
reservoir of infective material. 


Sm 


We recognize that the situation in a greenhouse will differ according to spray practices 
and the compatibility of our fungi with other treatments must be assessed in future research. 
On-plant persistence and the transmission of the disease within a pest population must also be 
addressed. It is essential first, that the reaction of the fungi in a controlled environment be 
determined. Ultimately,, it will be possible to make recommendations to alter management 
practices to enhance their persistence. 


(3) Determine pathogenicity of select fungal strains against the green peach aphid (GPA). 


GPA is one of the most destructive pests of greenhouse vegetables and flowers in the 
Northeast. In this protected environment, its reproductive potential is such that destructive 
populations can build up within a matter of days. Economic damage results from direct 
removal of plant nutrients causing premature plant senescence, by excretion of honeydew on 
which unsightly sooty mold grows, and through transmission of plant viruses. Over 100 
viruses are vectored by GPA to a variety of covered crops. Damage resulting from disease 
transmission is often more dramatic than direct feeding injury. 


GPA preferentially feeds on the underside of leaves or in flowers, avoiding contact and 
limiting the efficacy of insecticides; and resistance develops quickly. Production and 
distribution of plants by large-scale propagators using intensive spray regimes contributes to 
the rapid development and spread of resistant strains. 


These problems could be minimized by using entomogenous fungi, especially if they 
could become established in the pest population. V. lecanii is pathogenic to GPA, and control 
of aphids has been achieved in greenhouses in Europe. However, variation in the pathoenicity 
and disease-spreading potential of different V. lecanii isolates has been documented. 


Some of our V. lecanii isolates from pear thrips are pathogenic to GPA. In addition, a 
number of B. bassiana, M. anisopliae and Paecilomyces farinosus strains, isolated from 
Vermont forest soils and forest insects, have recently been shown to be pathogenic to GPA in 
preliminary screening assays. B. bassiana and M. anisopliae also show variance in pathoge- 
nicity to aphids, so further screening assays against GPA, followed by bioassays of promising 
isolates, are required. With this broad base of strain types, we will be able to identify the best 
and most suitable strains for management. By initially selecting strains that exhibit toxicity to 
WFT, we will also be able to show which strains have potential for use against other pests, 
making them more cost-effective for greenhouse use. 


Project Duration: October 1, 1992 through September 30, 1994. 
Funding: $79,709. 


Organization SARE Funds Matching Funds 
University of Vermont $79,907 $44,851 


152 


LNE93-34: AN INTEGRATED EXTENSION/RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR 
REPLACING HERBICIDES WITH MECHANICAL CULTIVATION IN NEW 
YORK STATE 


Major Participants: 


Cornell University: Jane Mt. Pleasant (Project Coordinator), Soil and Cropping Systems 
Management, 60% Extension, 40% Research., Dept. of Soil, Crop and Atmospheric 
Sciences, 146 Emerson, Ithaca, NY 14853, Phone (607) 255-1755; FAX: (607) 255- 
2644. Will provide leadership to implement educational objectives, including 
cultivation clinics, on-farm trials, and farmer-to-farmer information network. Will also 
assist in research objectives with major responsibility for the time of cultivation 
experiment. 


Charles L. Mohler, Plant Ecology and Non-chemical Weed Control Systems, 85% 
Research, 15% Teaching, Section of Ecology and Systematics, Division of Biological 
Sciences. Will provide leadership to implement the research objectives, including 
major responsibility for the cultivator comparison experiments. Will act as primary 


liaison with equipment manufacturers, and assist with implementation of the 
educational objectives. 


James Frisch, Soil Crop and Atmospheric Sciences, will conduct on-farm trials and 
assist with all phases of the project. 


Cooperating Manufacturers: 
All of the listed businesses are providing equipment in support of the proposed work. 


Allied Products Corporation (Bush Hog / Lilliston): Robert Moore, Vice President of Sales, 
‘Bush Hog, Inc., PO Box 1039, Selma, AL 36701. 


Bezzerides Brothers, Inc.: Paul A. Bezzerides, President, PO Box 211, Orosi, CA 93647. 


John Deere & Company: Richard Johnson, John Deere & Co. Technical Center, 3300 River 
Drive, Moline, IL 61266-1792. 


The Lely Corporation: Ed Culler, Product Manager, Box 1060, US 301 South, Wilson, NC 
27894-1060. 


King Ferry Implement Corporation (a Case International dealership): Route 34B, King Ferry, 
NY. 


13a 


Overview 


This project is designed to help farmers find out how to introduce mechanical 
cultivation into a variety of cropping systems and fine-tune machinery for their needs. 
Participants will hold a series of winter cultivation clinics, help establish a farmer-to-farmer 
information network and sponsor summer field tours of on-farm trials and demonstration 
plots. The information and techniques presented will be based on research which has recently 
been completed or is currently underway at Cornell. 


We propose an integrated program of extension and research which will provide 
farmers in New York State with the information on mechanical cultivation necessary to reduce 
reliance on herbicides for weed control. Currently, weed control on approximately 1,000,000 
acres of field corn and several hundreed thousand acres of other row crops grown in the state 
is accomplished almost entirely through the use of herbicides. Farmers are now seeking 
information about cultivation in order to reduce production costs and pollution, and to avoid 
regulatory problems associated with use of herbicides, but information is not readily available 
to them. Any substantial shift from herbicides to mechanical cultivation will reduce the 
amount of pesticides released into the environment by many millions of pounds per year. 


The extension component of the program, based on research which has recently been 
completed or is currently underway at Cornell, will educate farmers and extension personnel 
through aseries of winter cultivation clinics, a farmer-to-farmer information network, and 
summer field tours of on-farm trials and demonstration plots. All of these activities will be 
supported with clearly written and well illustrated educational literature describing types of 
machinery availaable, best ways to set up and fine tune machinery for farming in New York 
conditins, how to introduce mechanical cultivation into a variety of cropping systems, problem 
solving and other topics of interest to farmers who desire to initiate or expand use of 
cultivation on their farms. 


The research component of the program continues work begun with seed money from 
the Cornell Experiment Station and in-kind support from serveral manufactures. It consists of 
both replicated on-farm trials and larager experiments at a centrally located experimentstation 
farm. On-farm trials at three locations will examine and demonstrate the use of cultivation at 
various stages of crop development in conjuction with herbicide bands of various widths. 
Experiments at a central location will (1) compare several systems for mechanical control of 
weeds within crop rows and (2) compare tools for cultivation in minimumm tillage/high 
residue conditions. In addition to providing systematic information for use in the extension 
program, both on-farm and experiment station trials will be viewed by farmers and conty 
extension personnel. Publication of research findings in professional journals and popular 
magazines is expecged to spread the impact of the work well beyond New York State. 


154 


Objectives 


jl; Education on cultivation for farmers in New York. 
a Comparative research on cultivation methods. 
Project Duration: Two years, May 1, 1993 - April 30, 1995 


Funding: $103,235 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: $70,246. 


LNE93-35: DEVELOP CROP ROTATIONAL BUDGETS FOR THREE CROPPING 
SYSTEMS IN THE NORTHEAST 


Major Participants: 


Rutgers University: Robin G. Brumfield (Project Coordinator), Extension Specialist in Farm 
Management, Dept. of Agricultural Economics & Marketing, Cook College, Rutgers - 
The State University, PO Box 231, New Brunswick, NJ 08903-0231, Phone: (908) 
932-9171; FAX: 9908) 932-8887. Coordinates the enterprise budget development, 
computerization, and workshop programs in the Northeast. 


Natural Organic Farmers Association of N.J.: Jennifer Morgan, Program Administrator, 
NOFA-NJ, RD2, Box 263A, Pennington, NJ 08534. Serve as liaison tocertified 
organic growers. 


Northeast Extension Farm Management Committee: 


Pennsylvania State University: Jayson K. Harper, Dept. of Ag. Econ. & Rural Sociology, 202 
Armsby Bldg., University Park, PA 16802. Will plan budget development and 
workshops in the Northeast and develop enterprise budgets. 


University of Massachusetts: Robert L. Christensen, Dept. of Resource Economics, 315 
Draper Hall, Amherst, MA 01003. Will plan budget development and workshops in 
the Northeast and develop enterprise budgets. 


University of Delaware: Ton Tilmon, Rood & Resource Economics Dept., 232 Townsend 


Hall, Newark, DE 19717-1303. Will plan budget development and workshops in the 
Northeast and develop enterprise budgets. 


135 


University of Maryland: Dale Johnson, Dept. of Ag. Y Res. Econ., Symons Hall, College 
Park, MD 20742. Will plan budget development and workshops in the Northeast and 
develop enterprise budgets. 


University of New Hampshire: Michael Sciabarrasi, Dept. Res. Econ. & Dev., 317 James 
Hall, Durham, NH 03824. Will plan budget development and workshops in the 
Northeast and develop enterprise budgets. 


University of Vermont: Rick Wackernagel, AREC, 601 Main St., Burlington, VT 05601- 
1700. Will plan budget development and workshops in the Northeast and develop 
enterprise budgets. 


Overview 


This project will develop enterprise budgets for a variety of crop and livestock 
operations under conventional, reduced-input and organic production systems. It is geared to 
conventional farmers who are considering switching to low-input or organic production 
Systems. 


The Northeastern United States is the most highly urbanized region in the nation. 
Public concern for both environmental quality and maintenance of a dependable supply of 
high quality food presents a challenge for the agriculture of the region. This challenge 
requires that farming systems be developed and implemented that successfully combine 
environmentally responsible production methods, and management of resources, in a manner 
that enables Northeastern farmers to successfully compete in regional, national, and 
international markets. Long-run profitability is the ultimatae determinant of sustainability. 


To test profitability and productivity of alternative systems, enterprises budgets will be 
developed for a set of crop and livestock enterprises under three defined resource management 
syustems. Enterprise budgets for "conventional," "reduced input," and "organic" production 
systems will be developed with the assistance of farmers using those practices. The resulting 
data on inputs and yield experience will be entered into SMART, a national computerized 
expert system. SMART allows analysis of the whole farm production system and selection of 
the set of practices that are both ecologically safe and profitable. Illustrative model farming 
systems for crop and livestock production will be developed that meet specified environmental 
and profitability criteria. Regional hands-on workshops for Cooperative Extension and other 
agricultural agency staff will be conducted to make them aware of the results of the research 
and train them in the use of the SMART system. Extension staff will, in turn, provide 
training session for farmers and use the SMART system to assist individual farmers in 
designing production systems appropriate to their farms’ conditions. Follow-up sessions will 
be conducted in which those farmers who made changes in their production systems will 
descibe the impacts of those changes to other interested farmers. A major focus will be on 
the changes in resources used in production, profitability, and perceived and/or measured 
environmental effects. 


156 


Objectives 


1 To develop enterprise budgets for conventional, reduced input, and organic production 
systems for the Northeast. 


Pe To input the enterprise budgets developed in (1) into an expert system for identifying 
and selecting sustainable practices. 


os To provide training to field educators that prepares them to assist farmers in selecting 
alternative sustainable production systems appropriate ot individual farm situations. 


4. To inform farmers about the relative environmental impact and profitability of 
alternative systems and help cooperating farmers use the SMART software to design a 
production system for their farms. 


Project Duration: Two years 


Funding: $60,846 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: $159,742. 


LNE93-36*: ECOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT OF POTATO CROPPING SYSTEMS 
Major Participants: 


University of Maine: Gregory A. Porter (Project Coordinator), Department of Plant, Soil & 
Environmental Sciences, 5722 Deeting Hall, Orono, ME 04469-5722, Phone (207) 
581-2943; FAX: (207) 581-2999. He will supervise crop establishment, crop growth 
_and physiological measurements, and plot harvest. He will be a secondary supervisor 
of the Scientific Technician and supervise some of the soil analyses. He will report 
results on crop responses and their relationship to soil physical properties. 


C. Wayne Honeycutt, Soil Scientist & Faculty Associate, USDA-ARS, New England Plant, 
Soil, & Water Lab., University of Maine. He will direct a graduate student in the 
conduct of the studies below. 


An unnamed graduate student will assist in conducting these studies. 


: This project LNE93-36 will receive $111,870 of SARE Funds for two years; and 
as ANE93-18, it will receive $38,130 of ACE Funds for two years. Total Non- 
federal matching funds $69,000, and Other federal matching funds: $377,971 have 
not been separated into SARE and ACE amounts yet. 


IS7/ 


M. Naguib Bedaiwy, Dept. of Plant, Soil & Environmental Sciences, Will conduct most of the 
soil sampling and analyses of soil physical properties and moisture content. He will be 
primary supervisor of the Scientific Technician and responsible for operation of the 
irrigation system. He will report results on soil physical properties. 


Jefferey C. McBurnie, Dept. of BioResource Engineering, will conduct soil solution sampling 
and analyses. He will assist in irrigation system operation, soil sampling and will be a 
secondary supervisor of the Scientific Technician. He will report results on soil 
solution nitrate levels and adaptation of the two leaching models. 


E. Groden, Dept. of Entomology, is employed as a 50% appointment and so she has budgeted 
for one month summer salary. 


F.A. Drummond, Dept. of Entomology, is employed as a 50% appointment and so he has 
budgeted for one month summer salary. 


M.C. Marra, Dept. of agricultural and Resource Economics, will work with Drummond and 
Groden. 


Overview 


This project is part of a larger, interdisciplinary "Potato Agroecosystem" project. 
SARE/ACE funds will be used to investigate the effects of green manure, compost and manure 
soil physical properties, and to determine the impact of four biocontrol agents on Colorado 
potato beetles. 


Potato production in the Northeast is frequently chemical intensive and often promotes 
degradation of soil resources due to intensive cultivation and short cropping cycles. The 
intensity of chemical use associated with conventional potato production raises questions 
regarding potential environmental effects and long-term sustainability given increasing 
concerns about agriculture’s impact upon ground and surface water quality, worker safety, 
food quality, wildlife and fisheries. Soil erosion and loss of organic matter and aggregation 
can limit productivity of potato soils. Long-term acreage and production trends for potatoes 
in Maine and the Northeast indicate that new production approaches are needed to improve 
soil productivity and to retain a sustainable Northeast potato industry. 


In this proposal, we request funds for a research project focusing on ecological soil 
and pest management strategies for potato cropping systems. Funds will be used to enhance 
the University of Maines’s interdisciplinary "Potato Agroecosystem" research project with 
particular emphasis on expanding the scope of our investigations of soil physical properties 
and insect biocontrol. Specifically, effects of organic soil amendments on soil physical 
properties and water holding will be studied with the goal of identifying alternatives to 
supplemental irrigation while reducing nitrate leaching losses. A multifaceted strategy for 
biological control of the Colorado potato beetle (CPB) will be examined. The research 


158 


involved in this proposal is restricted to experiment station plots because it involves, in many 
cases, significant alterations of conventional potato production practices. The proposal 
addresses SARE FY’93 priority areas including: 1) protection of water quality; 2) analysis of 
economic costs and returns of alterantive management systems; and 3) studies of natural 
systems, including soil management effects on soil properties, nutrient dynamics, crop 
responses to alternative management strategies and biocontrol measures. Results of this 
project will help develop production systems that better maintain or improve soil productivity, 
and more efficiently control CPB, with reduced reliance upon purchased fertilizers and 
pesticides. 


Objectives 


ih, Determine the effects of green manure, compost and manure use on soil physical 
properties, nitrate leaching, and potato plant growth, water status and yield. 


2; Determine the impact of two microbial pathogens (Bacillus thuringiensis and 
Beauveria bassiana) and two insect predators (Perillus bioculatus and Coleomegilla 
maculata), singularly and in combination, on mortality of Colorado potato beetle. 
Results will be used to develop a multi-tactic biological control program for Colorado 
potato beetle. 


Project Duration: September 1993 to March 1996: Two years as LNE93-36; two years as 
ACE93-18. 


Funding: $111,870 for two years. 
Non-federal matching funds: $69,000. (SARE and ACE combined) 
Other federal funds: $377,971. (SARE and ACE combined) 


LNE93-37: INTEGRATING STEWARDSHIP FORESTRY INTO TOTAL FARM 
MANAGEMENT 


The Pennsylvania State University: Stephen B. Jones and James C. Finley (Co-Project 
Coordinators), School of Forestry, 110 Ferguson Building, University Park, PA 
16802, Phone: (814) 863-0401; FAX: (814) 865-3725. Jones is Penn State’s extension 
specialist for forest resource sustainablity, timber taxation, and forest based economic 
development. He serves as co-project director for the educational awareness project of 
Pennsylvania’s Forest Stewardship Program. Finley currently is conducting extension 
education programs related to the sustainability of forest resources, especially those 
issues that relate to non-industrial forest landowners. Research interests relate to forest 
resource sustainability, timber marketing, and extension education. 


[39 


Overview 


Participants will establish six demonstration/research replicates to examine the 
environmental and economic benefits of proper farm woodlot management. Educational and 
outreach activities will focus on helping farmers learn how to manage their forests wisely. 


Well-managed forests produce many environmental and economic benefits, such as 
improved air and water quality, wood products, recreational opportunities, and wildlife 
habitat. Farmers are one of the largest groups of forest landowners in the U. S. and for this 
and future generations, it is essential that farmers wisely use and manage their forests. 


This proposal establishes six demonstration/research replicates to examine the 
economic and environmental benefits of proper farm woodlot management. Each 12-acre 
replicate consists of six two-acre treatments: a control and five timber harvesting practices. - 
Growth responses will be measured. Stand structure and species composition are expected to 
be altered. A full cost and benefit analysis will be included with special emphasis given to 
how woodlot management fits into the total farm budget. 


The installations will demonstrate proper forestry practices to farm woodland owners. 


The plots will also provide baseline data for long-term monitoring of forest growth and value, 
and changes in species composition with resulting changes in wildlife habitat and biodiversity. 


Objectives 


le Establish six timber harvesting demonstration/study replicates distributed in different 
forest types in Pennsylvania. 


ih Enhance the adoption of aforest stewardship ethic by farmers, timber harvesters, other 
landowners, and extension agents, by demonstrating the impacts of various silvicultural 
options. 

By Develop baselline data for monitoring forest growth and changes in species diversity. 

4, Determine the economics of sustainable forestry practices and potential contributions to 


the whole farm budget. 
Project Duration: June 1, 1993 - August 31, 1995 (27 months) 


Funding: $48,408 for three years. Matching funds: $52,579. 


160 


LNE93-38: BIODIVERSITY EDUCATION THROUGH THE PENNSYLVANIA 
FOREST STEWARDSHIP PROGRAM 


Major Participants: 


The Pennsylvania State University: Stephen B. Jones and James C. Finley (Co-Project 
Coordinators), School of Forestry, 110 Ferguson Building, University Park, PA 
16802, Phone: (814) 863-0401; FAX: (814) 865-3725. Jones is Penn State’s extension 
specialist for forest resource sustainablity, timber taxation, and forest based economic 
development. He serves as co-project director for the educational awareness project of 
Pennsylvania’s Forest Stewardship Program. Finley currently is conducting extension 
education programs related to the sustainability of forest resources, especially those 
issues that relate to non-industrial forest landowners. Research interests relate to forest 
resource sustainability, timber marketing, and extension education. 


Overview 


The goal of this project is to provide professional foresters with a method to rapidly 
assess the nature and quality of habitat components and to provide private forest landowners, 
including farmers, with an understanding of biodiversity. Participants will established a 
biodiversity demonstration site, produce a field manual, hold workshops. 


The goal of this proposed project is to provide professional foresters with a 
methodology to rapidly assess the nature and quality of havitat components and to provide 
private forestlandowners, including farmers, with an understanding of biodiversity and the 
potential impact that their activities csan have on biodiversity. education and field 
demonstrations are proposed for achieving project goals. The project targets Pennsylvania’s 
professional foresters and private forest landowners. 


‘The products of the proposed project will include: 
is An established demonstration site for biodiversity management. 


ZI A field mannual for use by professional foresters working with private forest 
landowners; and 


as A two day workshop to train professional foresters in use of the manual. 
4. Two one-day workshop modules: one for educating professional foresters in the 
methods of assessment and management of forestlands for increased biodiversity, and 


one for presenting the basic concepts of biodiversity and its importance in the woodlot 
to private forest landowners. 


161 


Objectives 


1? Develop procedures for assessing biodiversity in farm and private woodlots. 

2; Establish a demonstration site for biodiversity management. 

£y Develop a field manual for use by professional foresters and landowners to manage for 
biodiversity. 

4. Expand the state’s capacity to develop and deliver educational programs on 
biodiversity. 


Project Duration: One year, June 1, 1993 - May 31, 1994 


Funding: $23,508 for one year. Matching funds: $18,122. 


LNE93-39: SYSTEMS ANALYSIS OF ORGANIC AND TRANSITIONAL DAIRY 
PRODUCTION 


Major Participants: 


Natural Organic Farmers Association-Vermont: Enid Wonnacott (Project Coordinator), 15 
Barre St. Montpelier, VT 05602. Will be responsible for organizing farmer-training, 
organizing farm management groups, data collection, case-study preparation and 
publishing informational documents. 


University of Vermont: Neil Pelsue, Associate professor, Agricultural and Resource 
Economics Department, Adams Building, Burlington, VT 05405. Appointment in 
research and extension. Responsible for developing and carrying out the economic 
modelling and analysis, and overseeing the data collection process necessaryto 
accomplish economic objectives. 


Woody Pankey, Research professor, Mastitis Microbiology Department of Animal and 
Food Sciences. Will monitor udder health and milk quality on all cooperator farms. 
Will also assimilate and organize all animal health data accumulated by the herd 
veterinarians on a monthly basis and provide these data to the project coordinator in 
the Ferow Program format for summary and analysis. 


Sidney Bosworth, Extension Associate Professor of Agronomy, Plant and Soil Science 
Department. Will train farmers in crop record keeping. He is responsible for 


162 


collection and analysis of field data, (using the computerized crop record keeping 
system). 


University of Vermont Extension System: Marli Rupe, Regional Specialist, Sustainable 
Agriculture/Dairy, Howe Center, Rutland, VT 05701. Body condition scoring, ration 
balancing, forage and grain analysis, feed management and herd management 
consulting. 


Veterinarians: 

Michael J Wood, DVM, Cornwall Large Animal Clinic, RD4, Box 120 Middlebury, Vermont 
05753. Monitor monthly herd health, provide data from the Fetrow program to the 
University of Vermont animal health clinic. Consult withfarmers on alternative herd 
health strategies. 

Thomas J. Stuwe, DVM, RD1, Barre, Vermont 05641. Monitor monthly herd health, 
provide data from the Fetrow program to the University of Vermont animal 
health clinic. Consult withfarmers on alternative herd health strategies. 

Farmer Participants: 

Certified Organic Dairy Farmers: 

The role of the following farmers: Keeping and providing records on business 
management, crop management and animal management; improving the research 
design; annually attending four farm management group meetings; holding or 
participating in on-farm demonstrations; and providing information to interested non- 
participating farmers. 

Suki Fredericks and James Maroney, Oliver Hill Farm, RR2, Brandon, VT 05733. 

Jack and Anne Lazor, Butterworks Farm, Box 15A, Westfield, VT 05874. 


Peter Young and Nancy Everhart, Hill Farm of Vermont, RD1, Box 740, Plainsfield, VT 
05667. 


Peter Flint, Organic Cow Dairy, RFD1, Chelsea, VT 05038. 
Transitional farmers will be selected in Fall, 1993. 
Overview 


Participants will conduct detailed farm management analyses on four certified and 
four transitional dairy farms to obtain accurate information on the real costs of sustainable 


163 


dairy production -- economic, environmental and soil. Because of the diversity of the farms, 
each will be analyzed as case-studies, providing relevant information for farms with similar 
characteristics. 


With an increasing market for organic and/or premium dairy products as well as the 
potential for increased environmental regulation and liability, many dairy farmers are seeking 
accurate information concerning sustainable agricultural practices. A primary question asked 
by farmers is "how much will this practice cost me and how much will I save?" A practice 
that is environmentally sound or sustainable may not be economically viable. On the other 
hand, a practice that appears to be too expensive, may have long term environmental and 
broad economic benefits. 


Cost/benefit analysis can be and has been conducted from the results of component 
research evaluating specific sustainable practices. However, there has been little work done 
evaluating the impact of adopting sustainable practices on the total management (ie., human, 
animal, crop, machinery, etc.) and economy of the ’whole’ farm. 


Many production practices now termed as sustainable have been practiced by organic 
dairy farmers for many years. It is our intention to ocnduct a detailed farm management 
analysis on four certified and four traditional dairy farms over a three year period. Because 
of their diversity in size and operational characteristics, each of the eight farms will be 
analyzed as case-studies, providing relevant information for farms with similar characteristics. 


An important result of this proposal is to obtain accurate information on the real costs 
of sustainable dairy production -- economic, environmental, and social -- for the benefit of 
consumers, producers and the dairy industry. Information will be gathered and analyzed in 
two manners, quantitatively and qualitatively. 


Quantitative information will be obtained by collecting detailed records of costs, labor, 
time, inputs (ie., seed, fertilizer, fuel, etc.), and production of animal and crop components on 
each farm. Whole farm financial analysis will be conducted as well as partial budgets of 
specific components and practices. Whole farm nutrient budgets and conservationpractices 
will be evaluated for each case-study in order to assess environmental impact. 


Qualitative information concerning management will be gathered by holding quarterly 
information exchange meetings of farmers, consultants and researchers. At these meetings, all 
parties will be able to share their feelings, frustrations, and accomplishments of sustainable 
dairy production. In addition, these meetings will be used to identify specific problems and 
obstacles of sustainabl edairy production. All meetings will be recorded. At the end of the 
project, we will publish the case studies and sumaries from the meetings. The intended 
audience will be farmers, consultants, researchers, and policy makers. 


164 


Objectives 


i; Assess the farm management system of four certifiec organic dairy farms and four 
transitional dairy farms. 


2) Facilitate the exchange of information form farmer-to-farmer, and farmer-to- 
agricultural professional (Extension, Research, Veterinarian). 


Project Duration: 


Funding: Grant Amount: $165,000 for two years. Non-federal matching funds: $42,199. 
Other federal funds: $43,370. 


165 


y 4 t: ; eet) i 4 o ao My oest 
b aii 2 ¥e df ’ 7 7 A = Pe a 
a mat, 3: 7 uve. inhia = (wt T ots W oe d 
(itl rn sutenTo oaths ‘undt Ie oveteya Inse gent et ont aesend, Lea 
“und ough luoviraned «~ 
pkey power of Ol ae 


reels ie sqenprtdee ye fheaniionrt 


ey » 
; : ’ ; “ : / y - : im i% ' ~ ~ _ ° 2 
: t pes ental Vi ctihtesoe poeta; logue org emai eager 
: 4 @ on 
, » }? 7 vu ‘> 
: | ye : \ woitatwt?: - 
3 
vy if “ “TY; A 
: 7 
» ry Lf ' J Yrrtde ! 14 
. yf gin fesabst-nicV, ctor ow ON 2olé Gama, tipi. SO 
‘ bear a rd “ P ° 
ae ee | at BTM] nid . 
' TT - 
+ 3 wetbdh 
> rf 
5 litte work ee 
; j " ” 
h ‘ Ds , : ' : 1 asate 1iSe becom, 
1 t , 
s : y 
’ vb La 
1 Goal c 
my Pe : 
( WM i 
ye a 
: x c : 
: 15 4 
' - 
f 
§ 7 , 
4 ca 
’ o : 
‘ ~‘) 1 iT 4 i j¢ i ail 


. s “& oy a | 
Jf EOOIpORER 


; ’ 4 ity ft Oy > OVW ro Qi 
| ' nicial & will be -comlacted a9 well es pactiol bo 
ect! ts t : e sgtrie’ nei aioe PROS 
5 dy 4 nit io oh sos ‘ TRON ! ", 
u the > buftrnation coaventing miatagetaent will be pothered by bhotdin 
am eKCIM & WUSCIns Os Lanes. ¢ wizultunis amd feorart’ _ At wat ve 
a . vhle. vere “hos teeing. fruvonlions aod Aosomm ssn ce 8 


; et von, these mccunge will Been to identify mpeciiio pre 
ashen iE stpinahi - 24 + production? | gieetihgs will we 1 added, At Gay 
nite oi @ahlion the caus stadien elet-aaaries froin the meetings (he! 
{} -e Fermeys, commitants, recta: daate, and polisy, makers. 


Mw a" ai 


Pty a > 


ANE91-1: 


ANE91-2: 


ANE91-3: 


ANE91-5: 


ANE91-6: . 


ANE91-7: 


ANE92-8: 


ANE92-9: 


ANE92-10: 


ANE92-11: 


ANE92-12: 


ANE92-13: 


PART II. ACE PROJECTS FUNDED 1991-1993 


Table of Contents for Part III 


IMPROVING CROP ADAPTATION TO ALTERNATIVE SYSTEMS .. 


IMPLEMENTING AND EXTENDING LOW INPUT CRANBERRY 
PRODUGIIONaIN JEHESNORTHEAST Pit: BUF. Sea 


USE OF THE PASTURE DISK METER TO PROMOTE WIDER USE 
OF CONSERVATION WINTER COVERS BY PROVIDING A RAPID 
METHOD OF ACCURATELY MEASURING WINTER LEGUME 
NITROGHNGRCe sea ee een. ee fees Saiet as.) ISA. my stect 


ALTERNATE MANAGEMENT OF LEAFHOPPER PESTS IN 
INTEGRATED FARMING SYSTEMS: DEMONSTRATION OF 
BICGEOGIGAIBAND ‘CULTURAI;@GONTROLS. © s.2 044.4 es fee 


INFORMATION DISSEMINATION TO INCREASE THE 
UTILIZATION OF SOIL-IMPROVING COVER CROPS IN THE 
INOUE > ateh ORERING Si ©. VS mn ce come vans te cra: ce ue Se gna 
USE OF COMPOSTS AND REDUCED APPLICATIONS OF 
FERTILIZER AND HERBICIDES TO CONSERVE SOIL AND 
GROUNDAVATERTRESOURCES INSNURSERIES? See) eee 


DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE CROPPING SYSTEMS FOR 
INE Wey OR KECASHIGROMIERODUGERS 2 eg aispoce ee as G 


SOS PATINA BEESUANDS@ARHS Mrinen. (meta Ley Ae Eine. Bee... 
FARMER-TO-FARMER COMPOST EXCHANGE PROJECT ........ 


ALTERNATIVE ROTATION SYSTEM FOR VEGETABLE 
PRODU GIIONSANDISOHAGCONSER VATH ON teal. bealeeais ork) eet 


ECOSYSTEM-BASED ORCHARD MANAGEMENT FOR 
EROGUSSINGIJAPRLES Garr Att er. aealeis of Croat. nueners as 


DEVELOPMENT, DEMONSTRATION, AND IMPLEMENTATION 


OF A LOW INPUT, SUSTAINABLE POTATO INTEGRATED CROP 
Wi Gre VeRO AIMGE, ee abarealstnch wie ao Gees ved i qgle sks Suga ewe) ve 


167 


176 


LZ 


ANE92-14: 


ANE92-15: 


ACE92-16: 


ANE93-17: 


ANE93-18: 


INTEGRATED KENAF, BROILER MANURE AND BEEF 
PRODUGTIONISYSTEMS 2 oc. eee bat ees ee eee 194 


FUNGAL PATHOGENS FOR BIOCONTROL OF SWEETPOTATO 
WHITERFLY IN-' GREENHOUSES ne eget. ne ee {oF 


DEVELOPMENT OF A SUSTAINABLE APPLE PRODUCTION 
SYSTEMIFOR THEI NORTHEAST. cua. fies Sete... ee 198 


IMPROVING NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT ON A 100-COW FREE 
STALL DATRATRFARMIT IM AIG Oe ee AR STO Ses . . oe 199 


ECOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT OF POTATO CROPPING SYSTEMS . 201 


168 


The following are descriptions of all the Northeast Region ACE projects funded from 
1991 to 1993, including results from the progress reports received in 1992. 


Project ANE91-1: IMPROVING CROP ADAPTATION TO ALTERNATIVE 
SYSTEMS ! 


Coordinator: Margaret E. Smith, Department of Plant Breeding, Cornell University, 
252 Emerson Hall, Ithaca, N.Y.14853. Phone: 607-255-2180 

Major Participants: T.C. Barker and W.D. Pardee, Cornell University Department of 
Plant Breeding; M. van der Gritten, USDA Soil Conservation Service; R.W. 
Zobel, USDA Agricultural Research Service. 

SARE Funding (as LNE90-25): $60,000. ACE Funding: $72,947, Matching 
non-federal funds: $91,016. This project was first funded as LISA project 
LNE90-25. 

Duration: One year SARE, one year ACE. 

Project Status: Closed. 


Abstract: The objectives of this project were to identify corn varieties that are well 
adapted to specific low-input or sustainable agriculture practices, and to provide this 
information immediately to farmers and extension personnel. 


Other project goals involved identifying traits critical to improved corn adaptation to 
sustainable conditions; initiating a corn breeding program to develop new genetic 
materials adapted to existing and proposed low input sustainable agricultural 
procedures; and working with farmers, extension agents and seed companies to 
improve availability of varieties adapted to sustainable systems and ability to choose 
appropriate varieties. 


This work was carried out in four cropping systems: (1) no-till, which received zero 
tillage and recommended herbicide and nitrogen inputs; (2) low nitrogen, which 
received full tillage and herbicide inputs, but only a minimal starter nitrogen 
application; (3) red clover interseeding, which received full tillage, no herbicide, a 
minimal starter nitrogen application, and medium red clover sown between rows at 
layby and plowed down prior to planting the following spring; and (4) a conventional 
check system, which received full tillage and recommended herbicide and nitrogen 
inputs. 


Two major field activities were carried out: an evaluation of current commercially 
available corn varieties in the four cropping systems studied, and a divergent selection 
breeding program to develop unique genetic materials with improved performance in 
specific cropping systems. 


169 


After two years of research, progress was made in understanding the interaction 
between corn varieties and different cropping systems. It is apparent that performance 
of a variety in a conventional production system is not generally an accurate indicator 
of how that variety will perform in alternative low-input, sustainable production 
systems. In other words, the best variety in one system is not necessarily best in other 
systems. 


Some specific traits important to productivity of corn varieties under low-input, 
sustainable systems were identified. These traits include good stand establishment, 
appropriate leaf angle, dark green color under stress (as shown by readings indicating 
chlorophyll content of the leaves), and synchronization of pollen shed with silk 
emergence under stress. Root system traits are very important to productivity under 
LISA systems. These traits have received very little study and have not generally been 
part of plant breeders’ selection criteria. Therefore, they represent untapped potential 
for genetic improvement. We initiated development of unique genetic materials with 
specific adaptation to the LISA systems studied. Numerous presentations, field days, 
and publications documented the progress of this work. However, because funding for 
this project was terminated after only two years, corn varieties appropriate to 
sustainable agriculture were not identified. 


Project ANE91-2: IMPLEMENTING AND EXTENDING LOW INPUT CRANBERRY 
PRODUCTION IN THE NORTHEAST 


Coordinator: Anne Averill, University of Massachusetts, Department of Entomology, 
Fernald Hall, Amherst, MA 01003. Phone: 413-545-1054 or 508-295-2212 at 
Cranberry Experiment Station, East Wareham, MA 02538. 

Major Participants: Frank Caruso, Carolyn DeMoranville, Karl H. Deubert, Susan 
Edwards, David Nolte, Mary Jane Else, Lawrence J. Dapsis, Joan R. Davenport; 
Charles C. Kusek and Bernard Morzuch, UMASS; Richard Andrews, 
Ecoscience Laboratories; Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc.; John Decas, cranberry 
grower; Kirby Gilmore, cranberry grower; Douglas R. Beaton, cranberry 
grower; Allan W. Stretch and Nicholi Vorsa, Rutgers University Cranberry and 
Blueberry Research Center. 

SARE Funding: $128,458. ACE Funding: $136,165. Matching non-federal funds: 
$229,340 This project was originally funded as LNE90-26, "Alternative 
Strategies for Cranberry Production in the Northeast." 

Project Duration: Three years, seven months. 

Project Status: Active. Two-and-a-half years have been completed. 


Abstract: This project introduced low input cranberry production on a demonstration 


basis in Massachusetts. It involves studies of weeds, diseases, insects, and fertilizer in 
cranberry bogs, with an aim of reducing pesticide and fertilizer use. 


170 


The project began in 1990 on LISA cranberry bogs at four sites. A fifth location, 
which had been managed as an organic production site in 1990 by Ocean Spray 
Cranberries was added for the 1991 season. In 1992, one of the bogs was replaced 
with a higher-yielding bog. In 1991 and 1992, two check locations were used for 
water quality and productivity comparisons to the LISA bogs. 


Reductions in synthetic pesticide and fertilizer inputs were substantial in the 1992 
season, with no significant increases in pest damage or inadequacy in soil fertility. 
Over the three years of our demonstration program, synthetic insecticide applications 
were reduced 60 percent and fungicide applications were reduced by 28 percent in 
comparison to previous years. Use of EDBC fungicides and chlorothalonil (known to 
be highly toxic to aquatic organisms and implicated elsewhere in groundwater 
contamination) were reduced 66 percent in favor of copper-based, mineral fungicides 
(which are accepted by organic growing standards). Broadcast herbicide dose was 
reduced 46 percent and fertilizer nitrogen reduced by 52 percent. 

Owing to the heavy utilization of surface water in cranberry bog wetlands, studies of 
water quality, coming into and out of the bog system, were conducted. We found that 
if pesticides were applied, they generally could be detected in small quantities at the 
bog outlet. Lowered dose of a pesticide reduced these residues. Regarding fertilizer 
residues, little phosphorus was detected in bog water during the growing season. 
Although peaks of ammonium output were observed, these were not associated with 
applications of fertilizer. In a number of instances, nitrogen levels at the bog outlet 
were lower than at the inlet, suggesting that commercial cranberry bogs may filter 
nutrients from incoming swamp or pond waters. 


Relative to more widely grown crops, knowledge of cranberry pests is exceedingly 
primitive. As a result, many of our ongoing projects may appear comparatively 
elementary. For example, regarding cranberry weed research, studies of the destructive 
weed pest, dodder are continuing with the focus on predicting weed seedling 
emergence for the maximization of timing of pre-emergence herbicides. In addition, 
promising post-emergence controls (preferred when available) were field tested. 
Investigation of long-term costs of perennial weeds were continued. The use of a 
summer flood for perennial weed control was investigated. Mycoherbicide studies for 
bramble and dodder were conducted with little success, but pointed to future avenues 
of endeavor. 


Regarding Cranberry disease research: Research is directed towards an in-depth 
evaluation of existing cranberry varieties for their resistance to field rot and storage 
rot. Of 45 varieties evaluated in the field, over a dozen showed field and storage rot 
resistance. These varieties will be utilized as parents in future crosses performed by 
Dr. Nicholi Vorsa, cranberry breeder at the Rutgers (NJ) Blueberry & Cranberry 
Research Center. These same varieties will also be evaluated for their resistance to 
Phytophthora root rot and upright dieback, the two major dieback diseases in most of 


171 


the cranberry-producing areas. In 1992, significant progress was made in the field 
establishment of variety evaluation plots. 


Research directed towards a switch from the widely used chlorothalonil (a chemical 
which can be toxic to fish) to the more organically-acceptable copper-containing 
fungicides, was conclusive: The copper based fungicides cannot be the sole fungicide 
utilized under high rot pressure. Future rot control research will focus on the use of 
late water and resistant varieties, in addition to the more environmentally benign 
copper based fungicide. Results of the second year of spore trapping (as the first step 
in development of a model to forecast fruit rot) demonstrated correlations between 
spore release and precipitation. Spore identification and counting is ongoing with over 
10,000 spores counted to date, 


Regarding cranberry insect research: We have focused on biology and management of 
cranberry fruitworm, a pest that accounts for about 70 percent of all applications 
applied in IPM bogs. Cooperating pheromone chemists have made further progress in 
the difficult identification of the sex pheromone of cranberry fruitworm that likely will 
be essential as both a monitoring tool and in sex pheromone disruption of this moth. 
Following extensive studies to determine the egg distribution of cranberry fruitworm 
and subsequent development of a model to describe this distribution, a sampling plan 
for fruitworm has been completed that will allow confidence in the elimination of 
sprays based on egg counts. Studies showed that the cultural practice of holding late 
water is clearly an effective management tool for both cranberry fruitworm and 
southern red mite. Surveys completed show conclusively that indigenous natural 
enemies are diverse and abundant in wild bogs, but these predators and parasites are 
virtually eradicated under the current insecticide application regime in commercial 
bogs. 


Regarding fertilizer research: A primary focus is to reduce movement of fertilizer out 
of the bog by identifying low-leaching materials. A leaching test in the laboratory 
showed that slow-release fertilizers, both organic and inorganic, had less leaching 
potential than the commonly used 12-24-12 granular soluble fertilizer. Three of the 
low-leaching fertilizers, composted chicken manure, fish fertilizer, and Osmocote were 
field tested on whole bogs with generally satisfactory results in terms of yield and fruit 
quality. A study to determine the suitability of low-leaching phosphorus forms for 
cranberry production was begun in 1992. 


Project ANE91-3: USE OF THE PASTURE DISK METER TO PROMOTE WIDER 
USE OF CONSERVATION WINTER COVERS BY PROVIDING 
A RAPID METHOD OF ACCURATELY MEASURING WINTER 
LEGUME NITROGEN. 


172 


Coordinator: A. Morris Decker, Professor Emeritus, Agronomy Department, 
University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742. 

Major Participants: Andrew J. Clark, V. Allan Bandel, and Mitchell Woodward, 
University of Maryland; four Extension agents, nine farmers. 

ACE Funding: $23,000 in 1991. Matching non-federal funding: $60,000. 

Duration: One year. 

Project Status: Final report due May 31, 1993. 


Abstract: Seven commercial farmers participated in winter cover crop demonstrations 
for corn production systems. Some were already convinced of the value of cover 
crops while others were skeptical. Farmers varied widely in terms of soils, climates 
and types of operations. Locations ranged from the lower Coastal Plain to Piedmont 
Maryland. 


Data collected from these demonstration plantings confirmed that most of the data 
collected from replicated experiments during the past ten years can be directly applied 
farms. For example, further confirmation of increased soil moisture use efficiency was 
obtained by farmers no-tilling corn into killed and living hairy vetch covers. Improved 
soil moisture relationships appear to help explain observed synergistic corn fertilizer 
nitrogen responses following legume covers. However, cover crops in these 
demonstrations that were plowed down appeared to mineralize more rapidly than killed 
mulches left of the surface and, thus, more cover crop N was available to increase corn 
yields. Plowing the cover down and/or allowing it to grow too long can reduce 
available soil moisture. 


The use of cover crops complicated management strategies of cooperating producers. 
The most common complaint from producers was that timely cover crop seeding in the 
fall plus killing the cover and planting corn at the best time the following spring adds 
to the workload of already full farm schedules. 


Data from these demonstrations have been discussed at field days and workshops. 
Some of the farms were included in field days and/or farm tours. As a result, many 
individuals were introduced, for the first time, to advantages and problems associated 
with the introduction of cover crops into corn production systems. Agronomy Mimeo 
34, "Winter Annual Cover Crops for Maryland Corn Production Systems" can be used 
by interested farmers to develop systems best suited to their specific farm situation. 


Project ANE91-4: EXTENSION OF THE PRE-SIDEDRESS SOIL NITRATE TEST 
FOR NEW JERSEY FIELD AND SWEET CORN. 


Coordinator: Joseph R. Heckman, Crop Sciences Department, Rutgers University, 
New Brunswick, NJ 08903-0231. Phone: 908-932-9452. 


L732 


Major Participants: Donald J. Prostak, Everett A. Chamberlain, William Hlubik, 
Robert C. Mickel, Eric P. Prostko, and John L. Gerwig, all of the Rutgers 
Cooperative Extension; Roger E. Wyse, New Jersey Agricultural Experiment 
Station; four farmers. 

ACE Funding: $15,986. Non-Federal Matching Funds: $35,241 

Duration: Two years. 

Project Status: Active. One year has been completed. 


Abstract: Our main objective is to extend the use of the Pre-sidedress Soil Nitrate 
Test (PSNT) to New Jersey field and sweet corn growers. The PSNT is an in-season 
soil test developed by Fred Magdoff at the University of Vermont that provides 
information about the nitrogen supplying capacity of a soil. PSNT results may 
indicate that an adequate supply of nitrogen is available in the soil to meet the needs 
of the corn crop or that a supplemental application of nitrogen fertilizer is required. 
This information helps farmers make better decisions about how much nitrogen 
fertilizer to use. The PSNT is most useful on manured fields where adequate nitrogen 
is available and nitrogen fertilizer use can be reduced substantially. 


The PSNT is currently being recommended for use on field corn, but further research 
is needed before it can be recommended for use with sweet corn. The research and 
Extension activities supported by this grant, along with support provided by the New 
Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, has facilitated the adoption of the PSNT by at 
least 30 New Jersey farmers. Experience among dairy farmers, the primary users of 
the PSNT, has shown that nitrogen fertilizer use can be reduced by an average of 50 
pounds of nitrogen per acre while still maintaining crop yield. When nitrogen 
fertilizer rates can be reduced without loss of crop yield, there is a reduction in cost 
for fertilizer and less risk of nitrate pollution of water supplies. Total statewide 
savings to New Jersey farmers and the environment as a result of adoption of the 
PSNT are estimated at $53,000 and 177,000 pounds of nitrogen fertilizer not applied 
to farmland. 


Project ANE91-5 ALTERNATE MANAGEMENT OF LEAFHOPPER PESTS IN 
INTEGRATED FARMING SYSTEMS: DEMONSTRATION OF 
BIOLOGICAL AND CULTURAL CONTROLS. 


Coordinator: Nick Maravell, Maryland Organic Food and Farming Association, 8565 
Horseshoe Lane, Potomac, MD 20854, voice (301) 983-2167, fax 301-983-0290 

Major Participants: William Lamp and Galen Dively, Department of Entomology, 
University of Maryland; Erick Lichtenberg, Department of Agricultural and 
Resource Economics, University of Maryland; Michael Heller, Claggett Farm 
manager, Chesapeake Bay Foundation. 

ACE Funding: $62,400 in 1991. Non-federal Matching funds: $63,750. 


174 


Duration: Two years. 
Project Status: Active. One year completed. 


Abstract: Farmers from the Maryland Organic Food and Farming Association 
initiated this project to demonstrate viable leafhopper controls for three crops 
important to their rotations: alfalfa, vegetable beans and potatoes. 


At present, the potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae, is a major limiting factor in large 
scale low-input or organic plantings of these crops. Farmers avoid these crops, use 
high-cost control measures, or suffer unpredictable levels of damage. Because of the 
highly mobile nature of the insect and its reproductive capacity, its impact during a 
year is difficult to predict and insecticides are currently the primary control tactic. In 
addition, as conventional farmers adopt alternative controls for Colorado potato beetle 
and Mexican bean beetle, major leafhopper resurgence as a secondary pest due to 
disturbance and its natural enemies has been an unanticipated consequence. 


New knowledge of leafhopper natural enemies and its behavior in non-host plants has 
yielded biological and cultural controls as effective alternatives to chemical 
insecticides. We are demonstrating, in the various distinct growing regions of 
Maryland, two such alternative controls. One is a fungal pathogen, Zoophthora 
radicans, which is released by an inoculative technique in response to scouting. The 
other is a cultural control in which non-host grasses are combined with the 
leafhopper-susceptible crop as a strip crop, intercrop, or mulch. 


Field trials were conducted in 1992 to determine the feasibility of controlling potato 
leafhopper populations primarily with a fungal pathogen and, in a few instances, with 
interplanting non-host vegetation. Paired plots of potatoes and snap beans were 
established and were sampled for leafhopper populations throughout the season. The 
pathogen was released at approximately half of the potato and bean sites concurrent 
with high populations of leafhopper. (High leafhopper populations were not present at 
all sites.) After the pathogen was released, dead or moribund leafhoppers were also 
collected, placed on water agar, and observed for development of the pathogen. The 
pathogen was recovered from one snap bean field. Nymph populations at this site 
steadily declined in both release and control plots. In the potato plots, nymph 
populations responded variably. Interplanting beans with grasses, vetch and corn 
produced no positive effects. Leafhopper populations were low this year at the alfalfa 
sites. In the alfalfa interplanted with grasses relatively low populations of leafhopper 
were observed. At this point, results are inconclusive as to the feasibility of releasing 
a fungal pathogen and interplanting non-host crops for control of potato leafhopper. 


uss 


Project ANE91-6 Information Dissemination to Increase the Utilization of 
Soil-Improving Cover Crops in the Northeast Cropping Systems. 


Coordinator: Marianne Sarrantonio Rodale Institute Research Center, Kutztown, PA 
19530. Phone: (215) 683-6383 

Major Participants: Leon Weber and Betsy Lyman, Rodale Institute Research Center; 
Vernon Grubinger, University of Vermont Extension Service; Tim Bowser, 
West Branch Bioregion Project; Steve Reiners, Rutgers University; nine 
cooperating farmers. 

ACE Funding: $84,502. Matching non-federal funds: $43,881. 

Duration: Two years. 

Project Status: Active. One year has been completed. 


Abstract: Project participants are developing and disseminating materials that will 
help overcome barriers to the use of cover crops in the Northeast. The work focuses 
on materials that will help farmers choose the most appropriate species for soil 
improvement for their own conditions, predict with more accuracy the likely nitrogen 
contribution from a green manure and asses the long-term effects of cover crops and 
green manures on their soil and cropping system. The products of the project will 
include a guide to using soil-improving crops, a database of information on 
soil-improving crops, on-farm demonstration trials, and workshops for educating 
farmers, extension personnel and others. 


In 1992, Marianne Sarrantonio completed a first draft of the workbook in early 
September. It closely followed the outline submitted with the proposal. According to 
the process outlined in the original project proposal, the draft workbook was to be 
evaluated through a series workshops. Participants in the first workshop agreed that 
the book needed to be expanded to include more management information for 
Northeast growers, and more species-specific information. As a result, Sarrantonio 
rewrote Chapter 1 to include more practical information on the attributes of various 
species for particular purposes. Other revisions suggested by reviewers were included 
in the other chapters. Copies of both the first and second drafts of the workbook are 
available on request. 


Work on the database in 1992 included the following: 


) Development of the necessary software for smooth performance of the 
database; 
) Production of the 1992 Legume Seed Source Directory, which lists seed 


sources for close to 400 species of legumes, as well as innoculants. 


) Expanding and updating existing information on various cover crops species in 
preparation for publication of factsheets. 


176 


In regard to on-farm demonstrations: Twenty-four growers, representing a wide rage of 
farming operations, soils and climates, are participating in unreplicated screening trials 
of various winter cover crops. They will report back observations on their plantings in 
the Spring of 1993. Additionally, replicated trials were established on three different 
systems in Pennsylvania. 


In regard to workshops: The first workshop,was held in September 1992. The 23 
participants included nine extension agents, four SCS representatives, seven members 
of the Rodale staff and a few agricultural educators. 


Project ANE91-7 Use of Composts and reduced applications of fertilizer and 
Herbicides to Conserve Soil and Ground Water Resources in 
Nurseries. 


Coordinator: Richard Ashley, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT. Phone: 
203-486-3438 

Major Participants: Patsy Evans, Mark Brand and Boris E. Bravo-Ureta, University 
of Connecticut Cooperative Extension; Lawrence L. Carville, Connecticut 
Nurserymen Association; Nancy DuBrule, Bill Duesing and Ellen Malona, 
Natural Organic Farmers Association/Connecticut; Charles R. Frink, New 
Haven Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station; Susan Mulgrew, University 
of Massachusetts; Robert Pellegrino, Connecticut State Department of 
Agriculture. 

ACE funding: $20,000 in 1991. Matching non-federal funds: $36,745. 

Duration: One year. 

Project Status: A no-cost extension was granted to April 30, 1993. 


Project ANE92-8: DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE CROPPING SYSTEMS 
FOR NEW YORK CASH CROP PRODUCERS 


Primary Institution: Cornell University 
Objectives: 
This project will: 
(1) Inform New York cash crop producers and the related agricultural industry 
about the need for sustainable cropping systems, and recommend economically 


viable cash-crop farming systems that minimize chemical inputs and maintain 
soil and water quality; 


We, 


(2) | Help New York cash crop producers develop sustainable cropping systems that 
increase small grain and soybean acreage and reduce corn acreage in their 
cropping systems; 


(3) Evaluate the potential of canola as an alternative cash crop for New York cash 
crop producers; 


(4) Identify the best sequence of crops in a sustainable cropping system for New 
York cash crop producers that maximizes profit and is environmentally 
compatible through the minimization of chemical inputs. 


Project Duration: Proposed: four years. Funding is for two years. 


Funding: ACE: $65,608. 
Matching with non-federal funds: $81,939 


Proposal: 


The 1990s will pose both economic and environmental challenges for grain crop 
producers in the USA and New York. The chronic oversupply of feed grains and wheat, 
which depressed prices in the 1980s, will probably continue in the 1990s. Grain crop 
producers survived the 1980s because of government support programs. But the 1990 Farm 
Bill mandates a gradual reduction in target prices and loan rates for grain crops. Clearly, the 
federal government wants to move grain crop producers to a more market-oriented system. 


The 1990 Farm Bill also seeks to reduce farm practices that have a negative effect on 
the environment. Corn, wheat, soybeans, and cotton receive 75% of government support 
payments; they account for 65% of agrichemical use in the USA. Recently, the Environmental 
Protection Agency detected nitrate in 57% and pesticides in 4% of surveyed rural drinking 
wells. In upstate New York, where corn is the major cash crop, nitrate and atrazine were the 
major contaminants found in surveyed wells. Grain crop producers must develop economically 
sustainable cropping systems that reduce reliance on fertilizer and pesticide inputs. 


Crop rotation is the foundation of a sustainable cropping system and extension 
programs at land-grant universities must provide more information on this topic. Research on 
corn-soybean or corn-small grain/clover rotations indicates that rotated corn, which yields 
10% higher than continuous corn, eliminates the need for corn rootworm insecticides and 
requires only 50 to 60% of the fertilizer N requirement. 


Recent research also strongly suggests that annually-rotated corn is essential to the 
maintenance of corn yields under reduced tillage systems. Such systems are currently used on 
about 30 percent of the corn acreage in New York, and are expected to increase in the 1990s 
to comply with conservation regulations. 


178 


We propose a four-year demonstration/extension project featuring sustainable crop 
rotations for cash crop producers in New York. The study will demonstrate sustainable crop 
rotations under moldboard plow and chisel tillage systems on four cash crop operations. Nine 
crop rotations will be done under the two tillage systems. Annual Field Days, where cash crop 
producers and representatives from agricultural industry can observe sustainable cropping 
systems, will be held at each 10-acre demonstration site. Soil, pest and crop measurements 
will be taken annually at each site. 


Agronomic and economic analyses will be performed annually for each site to identify 
the best transition crop to a sustainable cropping system, the best crop rotation and sequence 
of crops for a sustainable cropping system,the economic and environmental sustainability of a 
soybean-wheat/clover rotation and the potential of canola as an alternative cash crop for New 
York cash crop producers. 


At the end of the 4-year project Cornell extension faculty will analyze the agronomic, 
economic, and environmental aspects of the data to make appropriate recommendations in 
Cornell Recommends for Field Crops, an annual extension publication of Cornell 
recommendations to New York farmers. Additionally, Surveys of the farming practices of 
New York cash crop producers will be taken at the beginning and the end of the project to 
evaluate the impact of the demonstration/extension project. 


All principal investigators involved in this proposal have extension appointments and 
are responsible for a major portion of the recommendations in Cornell Recommends for Field 
Crops. Also, all principal investigators participate in numerous workshops and field days for 
"mainstream" New York agriculture. Our findings in the demonstration plots and subsequent 
recommendations are expected to have considerable impact on farming practices by New York 
cash croppers in the 1990s. 


Major Participants: 


Cornell University: William J. Cox, associate professor and department Extension 
leader, Dept. of Soil, Crop and Atmospheric Sciences. 


Gary C. Bergstrom, associate professor and chair of the Cornell Dairy/Field Crops IPM 
Committee, Dept. of Plant Pathology. 


Stuart K Klausner, senior Extension associate (Soil Fertility) Dept. of Soil, Crop and 
Atmospheric Sciences. 


Elson J. Sheilds, assistant professor and department Extension leader, Dept. of Entomology. 


Harold M. van Es, assistant Professor and chairman of the Cornell Agricultural Water Quality 
Committee, Dept. of Soil, Crop and Atmospheric Sciences. 


179 


Cornell Cooperative Extension: Nate Herendeen, Regional Field Crop Specialist, Agriculture 
Program Leader for Western NY. 


James Capron, Regional Field Crop Specialist, Wayne County Cooperative Extension. 
Judy Wright, Field Crop Cooperative Extension Agent. 

Farmer Participants: 

Norman Vaill, Vaill Farms, Poplar Ridge Rd.,Aurora, NY 13026. 

Doug Freier, Freier Farms, 3792 Post Rd. ,Geneva, NY 14456. 

Todd Roberts, Roberts Brothers Farms, 333 South Ave. Medina, NY 14103. 


David Damaske, Locust Grove Farms, Victor, NY 14564 


Project ANE92-9: SUSTAINABLE LANDSCAPES 
Primary Institution: University of Rhode Island 
Objectives: 

This project will: 


(1) Develop and distribute a list of sustainable landscape plants for USDA 
hardiness zones 5 and 6 in the northeastern US; 


(2) Develop a logo, a point-of-sale tag, and user information sheets for distribution 
with these plants; 


(3) | Develop a manual on designing sustainable landscapes; 


(4) Plant demonstration landscapes showing plants and practices to nurserymen, 
landscapers, and the general public at two educational facilities; 


(5) | Conduct research toward the biological control of key landscape pests including 
the Japanese beetle and birch leafminer. 


Project Duration: Two years, beginning in the fall of 1992. 


Funding: ACE: $75,000 
Non-federal matching funds: $81,939 


180 


Proposal: 


This project will develop and distribute information on plants and practices that 
contribute to sustainable landscapes - those requiring reduced inputs of pesticides, water and 
fertilizer. 


Numerous surveys have documented the heavy use of pesticides in urban landscapes - 
at rates that often exceed agricultural use. Pesticide applications are often made by 
homeowners who are uninformed about proper use of these materials. Professionals have the 
proper knowledge and equipment, but their services represent a substantial expense. 


None of this is necessary. Through the careful design of a landscape and proper choice 
and maintenance of landscape plants and materials, it is possible to largely avoid problems 
with pests - not only plant pests, but also many of those attacking our homes, and even 
ourselves. 


Through a collaborative effort between commercial nurserymen and faculty from the 
Universities of Rhode Island Massachusetts, we’ll develop and distribute a list of sustainable 
landscape plants for this region. This list will include trees, shrubs and groundcovers, 
including grasses that are adapted for various environmental conditions and landscape uses 
within this region. The purpose of this list is to promote production and use of low 
maintenance landscape plants. 


We will also develop a logo, a point-of-sale tag, and user information sheets for 
distribution with these plants. Our goal is to enable garden shop customers, with minimal 
sales help, to choose plants that will require less maintenance and fit certain landscape needs. 


To that end, we will also develop a manual on designing sustainable landscapes that 
will emphasize plant growth requirements and attempt to minimize the plant stresses that often 
cause pest problems. It will also contain descriptions of the plants on the sustainable list, 
giving such information as size, shape, shade and salt tolerance, soil and moisture 
requirements, etc. This manual will emphasize non-plant pests that can be managed through 
landscaping techniques, including many household pests (termites, carpenter ants, clover 
mites) and deer ticks - the Lyme disease vectors. Written for professional landscapers, but in 
language applicable to homeowners, it would be distributed to landscapers, nurserymen, and 
homeowners through Cooperative Education channels and through cooperating garden centers 
- particularly those in the GreenShare program. 


These sustainable plants would be planted in two key horticultural educational 
facilities: on the URI Campus and at the U. Mass. Waltham CE Center. These showcases will 
provide easy evaluation and promotion of them. By holding summer meetings of the 
Nurserymen’s Association, the American Society of Landscape Architects, and various 
homeowner programs such as Master Gardeners and the GreenShare Field Day at these 


181 


facilities, we'll introduce growers and customers to these plants, hopefully stimulating both 
production and sales. 


Applied research on biological control is proposed for two key landscape pests: the 
birch leafminer and the Japanese beetle. The leafminer, an introduced pest, is an excellent 
candidate for biological control; we have established one parasitoid and we can likely 
establish a second with a reasonable probability of solving this problem. The Japanese beetle 
is arguably the most important landscape pest in this region, and along with related white 
grubs, represents the last stumbling block to pesticide-free lawns. A recently-discovered 
pathogen may have potential to control this pest complex. We’d like to evaluate this 
possibility. 


Major Participants: 


University of Rhode Island: Richard A Casagrande, professor of entomology and R_I. 
Extension IPM coordinator. Will serve as project coordinator, participating in all five 
objectives, directing research and incorporating the results of a previous LISA project 
he coordinated, Sustainable Sod Production. 


Angelo Simeoni, landscape architect Department of Plant Sciences. Will develop the manual 
and participate in the development of the plant list and all other aspects of objectives. 


Brian Maynard will join the Department of Plant Sciences faculty on July 1, 1992. with a 
teaching, research and Cooperative Extension appointment. He will participate in all 
aspects of objectives of this proposal. 


University of Massachusetts: Roberta A. Clark, Cooperative Extension horticulture agent for 
the University of Massachusetts at Barnstable Mass. She has 12 years experience in 
observing and solving pest problems on various landscape plants and has taught and 
written extensively on the topic. She will be a key participant in developing the plant 
list, the manual, and selecting the demonstration plants for URI and Waltham. 


Ken Lagerquist is now retired from managing a production nursery, garden shop, and 
landscaping business. He was the unanimous choice of the five nurserymen polled to 
see who would be the best representative- of their industry on this program. He will 
participate in the first four objectives and will involve other nurserymen as needed for 
contributions of their expertise and plant materials. 


Project ANE92-10: FARMER-TO-FARMER COMPOST EXCHANGE PROJECT 


Primary Institution: Hartford County Soil and Water Conservation District. 


182 


Objectives: 
(1) Evaluate the use of composted municipal leaves and animal wastes as a viable 


nutrient management practice for dairy operations and the feasibility of dairy 
farms operating leaf composting facilities; 


(2) Analyze two types of compost: leaf and leaf/manure compost to develop 
application recommendations for other farm and land use operations; 


(3) | Educate area farmers on the use of compost as a soil amendment, and develop a 
farmer-to-farmer exchange program for compost; 


(4) | Conduct demonstrations on three different agricultural operations. Evaluate 
fields - with compost applied - for crop yield changes and the potential for 
using compost as an best management practice for water quality protection on 
commercial farms; 


(5) Assess the local market for composted materials and establish a network for 
marketing to local businesses. Other land uses may include golf courses, 
landscape and lawn care operations, gravel pit reclamation and landfills. 


Project Duration: Two years and four months, beginning in October, 1992. 


Funding: ACE: $34,000 
Non-federal matching funds: $19,720 


Proposal: 


Both agricultural and urban communities are taking a new look at composting as it 
relates to waste management and disposal. In Connecticut, municipalities are asking farmers to 
accept municipal leaves for composting because of they have the land holdings and 
capabilities to do it. Farmers are becoming interested in this arrangement, and some have 
already entered into contracts with towns to accept leaves on a trial basis. The farmers, 
however, have questions about the technical and economic aspects of this practice, including 

- What is the nutritive value of leaf compost and of leaves mixed with manure 

compost? 

- What crops can it best be used on? 

-Is it economic to accept leaves? 

- How much can be used on my farm? 

- What do I do with excess compost without an intensive marketing effort? 

- With what regulations do I have to comply? 

- How can this help with nutrient management? 


The Hartford County Soil and Water Conservation District will coordinate a 
farmer-to-farmer compost exchange project that should offer answers to many of these 
questions. 


183 


The project will take place in northern Hartford County, an area dominated by sandy 
soils and large stratified drift deposits. The stratified drift aquifers in this area are used as 
public water supplies, and as such they are regulated under Connecticut’s new Aquifer 
Protection Act. Farmers with operations located over the aquifers must develop resource 
management plans to protect ground water. 


Because composted wastes slowly release nutrients, they should be ideal for use as a 
soil amendment on farms in the area. In this proposal, a leaf-manure composting operation on 
a local dairy farm in an aquifer protection area will be evaluated for use as a best 
management practice for animal waste and nutrient management. Additionally, a bulk 
distribution program for excess compost will be developed involving area farmers in need of 
soil amendments. Expanding bulk marketing to other land users will also be explored. 


Education will be a major component of the project because it will help reintroduce 
compost use to commercial farming operations. The project will be coordinated by the 
Hartford County Soil and Water Conservation District with active involvement of area farmers 
and the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station. 


Major Participants: 


Hartford County Soil and Water Conservation District, Denise Conkling, district manager. The 
District is a quasi-state, non-profit organization set up under state statue to work on 
soil and water conservation issues in Connecticut. The District works closely with the 
USDA Soil Conservation Service and is located in the Agricultural Service Center in 
Hartford County, CT. Conkling will serve as project coordinator. 


Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station, Abigail Maynard, researcher. 
USDA Soil Conservation Service, Eric Scherer, district conservationist. 


USDA Soil Conservation and Stabilization Service, David Carey, director of 
Connecticut Office. 


Farmer Participants: 


Jack Collins , dairy farmer, Powder Hill Farm, Enfield, CT. Jack actively supports the 
sustainable agriculture concept. He has been a leader in the conservation field having 
been recognized as an outstanding farmer by the National Endowment for Soil and 
Water Conservation. Jack presently volunteers as chairman of the District Board of 
Supervisors. 


184 


Project ANE92-11: ALTERNATIVE ROTATION SYSTEM FOR VEGETABLE 
PRODUCTION AND SOIL CONSERVATION 


Primary Institution: Farmer’s Alternative Resource and Market Cooperative (FARM 
Coop). 


Objectives: 
The three main objectives of this project are to: 


(1) | Demonstrate a replicable, alternative soil conservation plan 
designed to reduce acceptable crop rotations from seven to four 
years per "field" for vegetable production; 


(2) Reduce input costs for pesticides and herbicides in vegetable 
production through efficient pest monitoring, tilling, and use of 
alternative mulches; 


(3) ° Develop a database for vegetable "truck-farming" that includes 
input, production, and marketing information, and that can be 
easily adapted by other small farmers; 


Project Duration: Two years. 


Funding: ACE: $74,131 for the two-year period. 
Non-federal matching funds: $20,700 


Proposal: 


The area served by Penn’s Corners Resource, Conservation, and Development Council 
represents an area with 1,484 vegetable producers, with over 5,800 acres in production. Last 
year, this area produced approximately $6.363 million in farm income (vegetable) cash 
receipts. 

But new soil conservation plans could have significant economic impacts on these farmers 
because they reduce vegetable rotations. 


In this project, alternative crop rotations, reduced tillage, alternative mulching and 
trickle irrigation will be used on a demonstration farm to develop a soil conservation plan for 


vegetable production that is acceptable to the U.S. Soil Conservation Service. 


The project will utilize pest monitoring, reduced use of pesticides and herbicides and 
living mulches to provide a lower input, sustainable approach for growing sweet peppers, 


185 


sweet corn and pumpkins on the Matthews family farm. It will compare production costs, soil 
erosion, and marketability between the alternative approach and more conventional methods. 


The cooperators intend to demonstrate the use of low input methods rather than 
methods regularly used throughout the northern Appalachia region. Through presentations at 
grower’s meetings, extension activities, information services of cooperators, and field days, 
the summarized findings will be shared in a manner that facilitates replication. The project is 
expected to conclude at the end of the 1995 growing season, although funding is requested 
only for 1993 and 1994. 


An essential component of this project is the actual monitoring of soil loss as a 
confirmation of the extent of difference in soil conservation between the various comparison 
fields. Representatives of the Cooperative Extension Service, Soil Conservation Service 
U.S.D.A.), Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Services (U.S.D.A.),and the local 
Washington County Conservation District will work with the Matthews family farm to 
develop, implement, and distribute results from this project. 


Comparison fields of similar slope, soil type, and directional exposure will be 
established. Two fields each of sweet peppers, pumpkins, and sweet corn will be monitored. 
The low-input fields will utilize narrower strips of vegetables separated by more frequent 
strips of sod than the 80 ft. control strips. In addition, low-input pumpkins will be no-till 
planted. Trickle irrigation, pest monitoring, and a live green mulch, such as hairy vetch or 
rye, will also be used. Comparison fields will use more traditional field preparation, extension 
service’s recommended use of pesticides and herbicides, and "sprinklertype" irrigation. If 
funded, two additional farmers will be sought to help replicate key aspects of this project. 


This demonstration project proposal is being written and developed by the actual 
farmers who intend to implement the ideas. Participants requesting funds include 
representatives of the Farmer’s Alternative Resources and Marketing Cooperative (F.A.R.M. 
Coop), a non-profit organization, and Penn’s Corners Resource Conservation and Develop- 
ment Charitable Trust (Penn’s Corners). Other cooperating organizations include local 
representatives of the Soil Conservation Service, U.S.D.A., Washington County Conservation 
District, Penn State Co-operative Extension Service, and the Agricultural Stabilization and 
Conservation Service. 


Major Participants: 


Allen G. Matthews, farmer and project coordinator. Box 84, Scenery Hill, PA 15360. 
Manager of Farmer’s Alternative Resource and Market Cooperative, (FARM Coop). 


Penn State Cooperative Extension Service: Edward J. Woods, Washington County Extension 
director. Generated ideas, will help evaluate project and disseminate results. 


186 


Washington County Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service: Robert K. Lusk, 
executive director. Generated ideas, will cost share efforts, evaluate project and 
distribute results. 

Soil Conservation Service: Thomas P. Sierzega Jr. and Kenneth Kearns, district 
conservationists. Will help manage and monitor project, provide information, 
evaluation soil conservation plan and distribute results. 


Farmer Participants: 


Harvey G. Matthews, farmer, land owner. Helped generate ideas, will provide information on 
yields and costs, provided land for project, will participate in all aspects of project. 


John H. Matthews, farmer. Key generator of ideas, primary provider of data, provided all 
plant and soil preparation through harvest. 


Project ANE92-12: ECOSYSTEM-BASED ORCHARD MANAGEMENT FOR 
PROCESSING APPLES 


(4/14/93) 
Primary Institution: West Virginia University 
Objectives: 

The objectives described below relate to research and extension activities that will be 
conducted during the funding period. This study will be part of a larger, long-term project 
evaluating alternative management systems for processing apples. 

This project will: 

(1) Test the hypothesis that nutrient and ground cover management programs affect 

nitrogen mineralization, nitrification, and nitrate mobility in conventional versus 


killed sod soil management systems; 


(2) Quantify development of pest and biocontrol agent populations in conventional 
and killed sod soil management systems; 


187 


(3) Quantify nitrogen and pesticide inputs, tree growth, and economic benefits 
during the preplant and orchard establishment phase to provide whole orchard 
system data on these orchard management alternatives; 


(4) Increase dissemination to growers and industry acceptance of ecosystem-based 
systems. 


Project Duration: This study is part of a larger, long-term project. The grant will fund 
research objectives 1 through 4 for one year. 


Funding: ACE: $16,200 
Non-federal matching funds: $15,298 


1993 ACE Grant Amount: $50,670 (funding for three years). Non-federal 
matching funds: $47,894. Other federal funds: $27,636. 


Proposal: 


Researchers will continue testing sustainable orchard practices against conventional 
systems on a 14 acre orchard at the West Virginia Experiment Station. The focus will be on 
soil management, nematode control, tree establishment and economic analysis. 


West Virginia has approximately 15,300 acres of apples currently in production. In the 
combined Mid-Atlantic region of Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland, apples 
are grown on 70,000 acres and command a market worth of about $124.3 million annually. 
Apples for the processing market account for 50% to 60% of the total production. 


Because processing apples can be marketed with higher levels of insect and disease 
injury than would be acceptable for fresh market fruit, reductions in pesticide and fertilizer 
inputs can be a realistic management recommendation that could have substantial positive 
impacts on the environment and risks to human health. Integrated whole farm management 
systems offer the potential to reduce impacts on the environment and human health while 
increasing net income to the fruit industry. 


This project will conduct a unique, comprehensive evaluation of ecosystem-based, 
long-term management systems for processing apples on a whole-orchard scale. The early 
focus will be on soil management, nematode control and tree establishment, with the objective 
of filling the allotted growing space in the test orchard and bringing the trees into production 
within three years. The research focus subsequent years will be to evaluate disease and pest 
control tactics that minimize pesticide inputs. 


A 14 acre orchard is being established at the West Virginia University Experiment 


Station, in Kearneysville, WV, The site has been divided into six two-acre main plots with 
each plot randomly assigned one of two treatments - either conventional production practices 


188 


or ecosystem-based practices. Whole-farm economic analyses will be conducted on the two 
systems, and budgets will be developed for presentation to fruit growers and processors. 


Second stage testing will occur in grower orchards in conjunction with an existing 
integrated orchard management (IOM) program (co-sponsored by ASCS and WVU). 
Orchardists will be encouraged to integrate new ecosystem-based approaches into their 
operations through a regional IOM bulletin, scout training workshops, field days and the 
WVU Orchard Monitor, a biweekly newsletter. 


Justification: 


We Maximizing tree growth to bring the orchard into full production as quickly as 
possible has historically been achieved through high levels of chemical inputs. 
Soil management systems that more efficiently utilize available inputs would 
allow optimum tree growth, but could reduce leaching. 


Ds Differences in activity and population density of nematode biocontrol agents 
between the ecosystem-based and conventional treatments will provide data for 
evaluating the long-term sustainability of different management systems for 
soilborne pests. 


33 It is our hypothesis, based on previous observations, that the soil management 
system is as important as the amount of fertilizer inputs in determining tree 
growth. Budgets of nitrogen, nematicide and herbicide inputs will be presented 
to fruit growers. 


4. Cost-effectiveness analyses will be used to help growers and processors assess 
how best to achieve optimum productivity concomitant with increased 
environmental protection. Information gained from the ecosystem-based 
demonstration will be presented to fruit growers through workshops and 
publications. Since West Virginia University has a strong IOM program in 
place, it is anticipated that new integrated practices will be readily implemented 
by the northeastern fruit industry. 


Major Participants: 


West Virginia University: Tara A. Baugher, Extension specialist--horticulture. Will serve as 
co-chairperson of committee responsible for the project in addition to conducting 
horticultural research and extension activities. 


James B. Kotcon, nematologist. Will serve as co-chairperson of committee responsible for the 
project as well as assess nematode population densities and nematode biocontrol 
activities. 


189 


Alan J. Sexstone, environmental microbiologist. Will provide expertise on nitrogen and 
pesticide assays, some of which may be conducted in outside laboratories. 


Henry W. Hogmire, Jr., Extension specialist-- entomology. Will monitor insects and, as IOM 
project leader, will organize scout training workshop and writing of IOM bulletin. 


Alan R. Biggs, Extension specialist-- plant pathology, Will monitor diseases and assist with 
Extension activities. Alan Collins, agricultural economist, Will conduct whole farm 
management analyses. 


USDA Appalachian Fruit Research Station: D. Michael Glenn, soil scientist, Will provide 
leadership for orchard floor management studies. Gary Lightner, computer specialist, 
Will develop decision-making computer software. 


Jefferson County ASCS: Michael P. Sienkiewicz, director. Plans to assist with second stage 
testing of ecosystem-based management strategies (in grower orchards). 


Farmer Participants: 


Ron Slonaker, grower and president, WV State Horticultural Society, Kearneysville, WV. Will 
co-sponsor orchard field days and generate ideas for extension programs. Also is an 
ASCS/Extension IOM cooperator. 


Charles Cottrill, Jr., grower and chairman, WV State Horticultural Society Extension Advisory 
Committee, Hedgesville, WV. Has generated ideas for this project and will assist with 
project evaluation and educational programs. 

Michael Orr, grower and member, WV State Horticultural Society Extension Advisory 
Committee, Martinsburg, WV. Has generated ideas for this project and will assist with 
project evaluation and educational programs. 


Processors: 


Ward Cooper, Knouse Foods Cooperative, Peach Glen, PA. Has agreed to generate ideas for 
project and provide cost information. 


William Huehn, Processor, National Fruit Product Co., Winchester, VA. Has agreed to 
generate ideas for project and provide cost information. 


Merl Orebaugh, Processor, Bowman Apple Products, Mt. Jackson, VA. Has agreed to generate 
ideas for project and provide cost information. 


West Virginia Department of Agriculture: Ray Barber, Director, Laboratory Services Division, 
Will analyze samples for pesticide residues (for minimal cost). 


190 


Others: 


Pennsylvania State University: Edward Rajotte, Extension specialist--entomology. Plans to 
assist with regional IOM bulletin and provide suggestions on preparing enterprise 
budgets that can be adapted to Expert programs. 


Doug Pfeiffer, Extension Specialist--Entomology, VPI and SU. Will assist with regional IOM 
bulletin. 


University of Maryland, Galen Dively, IPM specialist. Will assist with regional IOM bulletin 
and scout training workshops. 


Project ANE92-13: DEVELOPMENT, DEMONSTRATION, AND 
IMPLEMENTATION OF A LOW INPUT, SUSTAINABLE 
POTATO INTEGRATED CROP MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 


Primary Institution: The Pennsylvania State University 
Objectives: 


(1) To conduct an on-farm demonstration and test of a low input sustainable potato 
ICM system; 


(2) To evaluate in the laboratory and field test an entomopathogenic nematode and 
mulch agrosystem for Colorado potato beetle bio-control; 


(3) To develop and deliver, with grower involvement, a low input sustainable 
potato ICM program on commercial farms. 


Project Duration: September 1, 1992 through August 31, 1993. 


Funding: ACE: $25,000 
Non-federal matching funds: $25,734 


Proposal: 


Current potato production practices rely heavily on numerous applications of highly 
toxic pesticides. For commercial potato production to remain a viable enterprise, a low input, 
sustainable, crop management (ICM) program must be developed, shown to be economically 
feasible and then broadly implemented. 


ee 


We have developed a prototype system for low input sustainable potato ICM. This 
system will be demonstrated on a commercial farm where numerous low input practices will 
be integrated and evaluated against traditional methods in a full series of rotations. This 
demonstration will be included in Penn. State’s Ag Progress Days Exposition to insure wide 
grower and public participation. 


The ICM system will be expanded with the development of a Colorado potato beetle 
(CPB) biological control agent. We will develop a potato agrosystem conducive to the 
survival of entomopathogenic nematodes, and evaluate it’s potential for CPB control. This 
system, utilizing mulches to promote Steinernematid survival will target CPB fourth instars, 
pupae and emerging adults. It could potentially replace mid-season insecticides while 
improving crop yields and soil fertility. 


In addition to being effective, a low input potato ICM program must be easily 
implemented and available for daily use. To this end, the ICM program will be evaluated by 
growers on at least five commercial farms. Potato fields on these farms will be scouted 
weekly and the growers’ presented with low input pest management recommendations. Their 
responses will be evaluated and used to make improvements. Finally, the ICM program will 
be made publicly available. An expert system will be targeted toward county extension of 
offices and scientists. A "paper based system" will be developed, published in the regional 
spray guides, and targeted toward the majority of growers. 


In conclusion, this project will further develop and demonstrate a low input sustainable 
potato ICM program. Furthermore, a biocontrol system for CPB will be developed and field 
tested. The entire ICM program will be made available for wide scale implementation through 
public demonstrations, on farm recommendations, the delivery of an expert system to 
extension offices, and the publication of a paper based method for inexpensive daily on farm 
implementation. 


Major Participants: 


The Pennsylvania State University: Zane Smilowitz, Professor of Entomology, Department of 
Entomology. Project coordinator, will oversee research programs and coordinate 
extension effort with county extension agents. 


M. C. Saunders, Associate Professor of Entomology, Department of Entomology, Will oversee 
research on entomopathogenic nematodes and development and.implementation of 
PotatoES; 


B. J. Christ, Associate Professor of Plant Pathology, Department of Plant Pathology, Will 


oversee pathology aspects of the program and PotatoES and research on Verticillium 
and phytopathogenic nematodes. 


192 


R. Weisz, Research Scientist, Department of Entomology.Plant physiologist, biological 
systems science, 100% research. Responsible for development of PotatoES and field 
experiments on the research farm and on Roy Campbell’s potato farm in Centre 
County. 


R F. Leiby, Extension Director Lehigh and Northampton Counties, Agronomy and Extension 
Education. Responsible for advising and coordinating extension aspects of the 
programs. Supervising scouts and working as liaison between farmers and researchers 
in eastern Pennsylvania. 


BIOSYS: A Biological Pest Control Company. 1057 East Meadow Circle, Palo Alto, CA 
94303. Biosys will support this research by providing entomopathogenic nematodes 
required for development of a CPB biocontrol agrosystem. 


Farmer Participants: 


Roy J. Campbell. Farmer, Pennsylvania Furnace, Pennsylvania. Mr. Campbell has consented 
to have replicated experiments and demonstrations conducted on his potato farm. He 
will plant, spray, harvest and maintain potatoes and other crops. He will also provide 
economic information required for development of enterprise budgets. 


Walter F. Frisch. Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 
experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Frisch will participate in 
evaluating the ICM program on his farm. 


Garry Hunsicher, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 
experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Hunsicher will participate in evaluating 
the ICM program on his farm. 


Mark A. Lichtwalner, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 
experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Lichtwalner will participate in 
evaluating the ICM program on his farm. 


George L. Billig, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 
experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Billig will participate in evaluating the 
ICM program on his farm. 


Willard A. Kistler, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 
experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Kistler will participate in evaluating the 
ICM program on his farm. 


Sherwood Geiger, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 


experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Geiger will participate in evaluating the 
ICM program on his farm. 


193 


Robert Schmitt, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated experiments 
conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Schmitt will participate in evaluating the ICM 
program on his farm. 

Keith E. Masser, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 
experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Masser will participate in evaluating 
the ICM program on his farm. 

John Herwilliger, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania has consented to have unreplicated 


experiments conducted on his potato farm. Mr. Herwilliger will participate in 
evaluating the ICM program on his farm. 


Project ANE92-14: INTEGRATED KENAF, BROILER MANURE AND BEEF 
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS 


Primary Institution: University of Delaware 
Objectives: 
This project will 


(1) Promote the use of broiler manure as a feed ingredient and pasture fertilizer 
with beef producers; 


(2) | Demonstrate the use of broiler manure as a fertilizer for beef pasture and 
measure its effect on groundwater quality; 


(3) | Demonstrate the value of broiler manure as a low-cost feed ingredient for beef 
animals; 


(4) | Demonstrate that kenaf can be grown and used on the farm as poultry litter and 
determine the cost of production; 


(5) Compare the value of kenaf broiler litter with sawdust broiler litter as a beef 
feed ingredient; 


(6) | Compare the quality of kenaf and sawdust litter - broiler nutrient sink and plant 
nutrient source; 


(7) | Develop an integrated kenaf/broiler/beef farm production system for Delmarva. 


Project Duration: Two years, beginning Feb. 1993 


194 


Funding: ACE: $81,500 
Matching with non-fedral funds: $69,259 


Proposal: 


This two year educational project will use demonstrations, field days and newsletters to 
promote the use of a waste - broiler chicken manure - as an abundant and inexpensive source 
of feed and pasture fertilizer for beef production. 


Broiler production is heavily concentrated on the Delmarva peninsula, with over 500 
million chickens produced annually. Delmarva is the area between the Atlantic Ocean and 
Delaware Bay and the Chesapeake Bay that is part of the states of Delaware, Maryland and 
Virginia. 


In Delaware, broiler production is concentrated in the southern portion of the state, an 
area that has sandy soils and high water tables. Over 230 million broilers are grown yearly in 
this region. They produce over 260,000 tons of manure annually, which contains nearly 16 
million pounds of nitrogen. Some of this nitrogen ends up in groundwater. The nitrate 
concentration in the water table aquifer is increasing where broiler production is concentrated. 


Methods of preventing nitrate leaching from agricultural sources must be found to 
protect groundwater. The beef industry could utilize part of this broiler manure as a feed 
ingredient and as a pasture fertilizer. 


In this project, kenaf, will be grown and used on the farm for boiler litter as a 
substitute for sawdust and its beef feeding value determined. Beef producers, consumers and 
others will be able to sample broiler manure fed beef at a field day at the conclusion of the 
feeding trial. 


In this project, farmers will be shown that broiler manure can be used to fertilize 
pastures just as effectively as chemical fertilizers and when applied at low rates at the proper 
time, it will not degrade groundwater quality or be detrimental to beef animal health. Also, 
plan to show that manure can lower costs while improving pasture production. 


The quality of kenaf and sawdust based litter-broiler manure as a plant nutrient sink 
and fertilizer source will be compared in a laboratory study. An integrated kenaf/broiler/beef 
farm production system will be developed that will lower production costs while protecting 
groundwater quality from excess nitrate from broiler manure. 


Continual expansion of the broiler industry (about five percent per year) has created an 
increased demand for sawdust and shavings as poultry litter. Costs have risen, and supply has 
been variable. As a result, broiler producers are cleaning out growing houses less frequently 
and broiler mortality has risen to over eight percent. Preliminary tests have shown that 


195 


chopped kenaf could be used as an alternative litter material. Growing kenaf and using it for 
poultry litter could reduce litter costs and encourage more frequent manure removal. 


Preliminary tests have shown that kenaf based broiler manure is more digestible in the 
rumen then sawdust based broiler manure. This needs to be investigated further to support the 
use of kenaf as a poultry litter. 


Beef producers will be surveyed at the beginning and end of the project to determine 
the extent of broiler manure usage in beef production, impediments to usage and intent to 
change practices. 


Major Participants: 


University of Delaware, College of Agricultural Science: Thomas Williams, Extension 
specialist in agricultural engineering. Specializes in machinery and irrigation 
management, tillage and water quality. Extension water quality program leader. 
Mr. Williams will be involved in all phases of the project as coordinator, 
including leading integrated system design team and writing reports. 


Richard A. Barczewski, Ph.D. Extension specialist in livestock production, will 
promote the use of broiler manure in beef production through newsletters, field 
days and beef producer surveys. 


Conrado M. Gempesaw, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Department of Food and Resource 
Economics. Specializes in farm management and production economics. Dr.Gempesaw 
will help determine costs of production and enterprise budgets, as well as assisting 
with the integrated system design and the beef producer survey. 


Limin Kung, Jr., Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Science and Agricultural 
Biochemistry. Dr. Kung will help determine feed rations as well as assist with field 
days and newsletters. 


William F. Ritter, Ph.D. Professor, Department of Agricultural Engineering. Specializes in 
water quality, waste utilization, non-point source pollution and irrigation management. 
Dr. Ritter will help install, sample and analyze pasture monitoring wells. He will also 
assist in designing the integrated system. 


James Thomas Sims, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Department of Plant and Soil Sciences. 
Specializes in soil chemistry, soil fertility, manure and other organic sources of plant 
nutrients. Dr. Sims will direct laboratory study on the quality of kenaf and sawdust 
litters as plant nutrient sources and sinks. 


Richard W. Taylor, Ph.D. Extension specialist in soil fertility and crop management. Dr. 
Taylor will be involved in the pasture fertilization work and the growing of kenaf. 


196 


Edward R. Jones, Ph.D. Professor, Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources. 
Specializes in beef pasture production systems.Dr. Jones will conduct the feeding 
trials, measure pasture production and assist with the system design. 


Farmer Participants: 


Donnell Calhoun. Milford, DE. Farms 1500 partially irrigated acres growing grain and 
vegetable crops. Produces broilers and beef Mr. Calhoun will provide 10 acres of 
pasture, broiler manure and fertilizer, two acres acres to grow kenaf, and the broiler 
house to use the kenaf litter. He will share his experiences with other producers at the 
field day and pasture meetings and help determine production costs. 


Project ANE92-15: FUNGAL PATHOGENS FOR BIOCONTROL OF 
SWEETPOTATO WHITEFLY IN GREENHOUSES 


Primary Institution: University of Vermont 
Objectives: 
This project will: 


(1) Determine the pathogenicity of selected fungal strains to the sweetpotato 
whitefly; 


(2) Determine the relative susceptibility of different whitefly development stages to 
effective fungal strains identified in Objective 1. 


Project Duration: October 1992 through September 30, 1994 
Funding: ACE: $68,561 
Total matching funds: $75,314. 


Proposal: 

The sweetpotato whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (SPWF), is a major new pest of northern 
greenhouse crops. With a reported host range of over 400 plants and an ability to transmit 
over 60 plant viruses, this pest poses a serious threat to the greenhouse industry. 

Control with conventional techniques is difficult because of the natural tolerance of 


SPWF egg and pupal stages to most chemical pesticides and the rapid development of 
insecticide resistance. Production and distribution of plants by large-scale propagators using 


Loy 


intensive spray regimes significantly contributes to the development and spread of 
insecticide-resistant strains of SPWF. 


New management approaches are needed. We have recovered a variety of 
entomogenous fungi from diverse source materials collected in Vermont. The pathogenicity of 
a number of these indigenous isolates to western flower thrips (WFT) has already been 
demonstrated. Our objectives are to conduct pathogenicity tests against SPWF using a range 
of WFT-active strains of Verticilium lecanii, Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae and 
Paecilomyces farinosus. Active strains will then be evaluated against different SPWF 
developmental stages. By using a broad base of strain types we will be able to identify the 
most active strains for use against SPWF. 


Knowing the relative susceptibility of the different SPWF developmental stages to a 
selection of fungal pathogens, we will be able to establish which stage can most effectively be 
targeted with a fungal treatment, the spore dose required, and whether one fungal isolate 
could, potentially, be used to control all stages. By initially selecting strains that exhibit 
toxicity to WFT we will also be able to show which of the fungal isolates have the greatest 
promise for use against other pest species, making them a more cost-effective and attractive 
proposition for commercial greenhouse use. 


Major Participants: 

University of Vermont: Bruce L. Parker Ph.D.., professor of entomology, and Michael 
Brownbridge, Ph.D.., research assistant professor and insect pathologist, 
co-investigators. Also: Margaret Skinner, M.S. laboratory and field technician; John P. 
Hayden, M.S., research technician; Donald L. McLean, entomology professor; Leonard 
Perry, Ph.D.., extension horticulturist and greenhouse specialist; 

Cornell University: Gerard Ferrentino, M.S., specialist in greenhouse IPM; John P. Sanderson, 
Ph.D., IPM greenhouse specialist. Jennifer A. Grant, greenhouse Extension specialist, 
Geneva Experiment Station. 


USDA-ARS: Richard A. Humber, Ph.D., specialist in taxonomy of insect fungi. 


Adrian T. Gillespie, Ph.D., insect pathologist for Chr. Hansen’s Biosystems, Denmark, a 
commercial producer of Verticillium lecanii in Europe. 


Grower Participants: 
David G. Marshall, greenhouse manager, Mailloux Greenhouses Inc., Ferrisburgh, VT. 


Chris Conant and Thomas J. Doubleday, Claussen’s Florist and Greenhouse, Colchester, 
Vermont. 


198 


Project ACE92-16: DEVELOPMENT OF A SUSTAINABLE APPLE PRODUCTION 
SYSTEM FOR THE NORTHEAST. 


Project Coordinator: Terry Schettini, Rodale Institute, Pennsylvania. 


Using disease-resistant cultivars and integrated pest management techniques, researchers will 
continue developing sustainable apple production systems in five Northeast state. 


Participants: Rodale Institute, Rutgers University, University of Massachusetts, University of 
Vermont, Cornell University and apple growers in the five states. 


1993 SARE Grant Amount: $97,800 for one year. 
1993 ACE Grant Amount: $164,200 for one year. Matching: 


Project ANE93-17:; IMPROVING NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT ON A 100-COW 
FREE STALL DAIRY FARM 

Primary Institute: W.H. Miner Agricultural Research Institute 

Objectives: 


ie Contuct a detailed evaluation of the nutrient balance on the 100-cow Miner Institute 
dairy farm, and compare it to the average New York dairy farm. 


oF Improve existing models to predict the flow of N, P, and K through the cow, manure 
storage, and to the field. 


ay Evaluate the effects on the farm nutrient balance of phosphorus by the substitution of 
manure for commercial fertilizer for established alfalfa. 


4, Evaluate the effects on the farm nutrient galance of nitrogen by the use of pre- 
sidedress nitrogen tests. 


Project Duration: Three years. February 1, 1994 - January 31, 1997 


Funding: ACE: $97,000 for three years. 
Matching non-federal: $24,507. 


199 


Proposal: 


Participants will investigate potential alternatives for reducing the amount of nutrients 
that accumulate on dairy farms, looking at both plant and animal systems. It includes dairy 
nutrition research to explore techniques to increase digestibility and utilization of forage and 
grain. and better balance supply and demand of N, P, and K. 


Dairy farmers make inefficient use of nutrients entering the farm as fertilize4, feed, 
and minerals, partly due to the fact that ruminants such as dairy cattle only utilize a small 
proportion of what they consume. Increased concentrations of animals and greater distances 
from farmstead to fields pose particular challenges for moderately large farms. 


This proposal would investigate avenues that have the potential of reducing the amount 
of nutrients accumulating on dairy farms. Both animal and plant systems would be involved, 
using the 100-cow,360-crop acre dairy farm at Miner Institute. Dairy nutrition research would 
explore innovative techniques to increase digestibility and utilization of forage and grain. 
Dairy manure would replace commercial fertilizer on established alfalfa, and pre-sidedress 
nitrogen tests would direct N use on corn. The entire feed and mineral program would be 
evaluated, and the research staff at the appropriate mineral and grain companies would be 
involved in the effort to better balance supply and demand of N, P, and K. 


The result of these efforts would be a decrease of nutrients purchased for use on the 
farm, and increased efficiency of the nutrients fed to dairy cattle. 


Major Participants: 


W.H. Miner Agricultural Research Institute: Everett D. Thomas, (Project Coordinator), 
P.O. Box 90, Chazy, NY 12921, Phone (518) 846-8020 FAX: (518) 846-8445. Will 
conduct nutrient cycling project and evaluation of nutrient reduction plan for field 
crops including manure management ant PSNT. 


W.H. Miner Agricultural Research Institute: Charles J. Sniffen, dairy scientist. Will 
conduct dairy feeding research trial which will evaluated economic and production 
effects of reduced dietary inputs of N, P, and K, and validation of the model. 


Cargill, Inc.: Steven I. Smith, research dairy nutritionist, Cargill Research Farm, 10383 165th 
Ave. NW, Box 301, Elk River, MN 55330. Will assist in dairy feeding research trial, 
particularly those aspects which involve actions the feed industry can take to increase 
the efficiency of NPK utilization such as substitution on mineral sources. 


University of Pennsylvania: William V. Chalupa, rumnant nutritionist. School of Veterinary 
Medicine, New Bolton Center, 382 West Street Road, Kennett Square, PA 19348- 
1692. Will assist in dairy feeding research trial, particularly those aspects dealing with 
protein utilization. 


200 


Project ANE93-18°: ECOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT OF POTATO CROPPING 
SYSTEMS 


Primary Institution: University of Maine 
Objectives: 


Me Determine the effects of green manure, compost and manure use on soil physical 
properties, nitrate leaching, and potato plant growth, water status and yield. 


2 Determine the impact of two microbial pathogens (Bacillus thuringiensis and 
Beauveria bassiana) and two insect predators (Perillus bioculatus and Coleomegilla 
maculata), singularly and in combination, on mortality of Colorado potato beetle. 
Results will be used to develop a multi-tactic biological control program for Colorado 
potato beetle. 


Project Duration: Two years as LNE93-36; and two years as ACE93-18. 


Funding: ACE: $38,130 for two years. 
Non-federal matching funds: $69,000. (SARE and ACE combined) 
Other federal funds: $377,971. (SARE and ACE combined) 


Proposal: 


This project is part of a larger, interdisciplinary "Potato Agroecosystem" project. 
SARE/ACE funds will be used to investigate the effects of green manure, compost and manure 
soil physical properties, and to determine the impact of four biocontrol agents on Colorado 
potato beetles. 

Participants: University of Maine, USDA-ARS New England Plant, Soil & Water Laboratory. 


Potato production in the Northeast is frequently chemical intensive and often promotes 
degradation of soil resources due to intensive cultivation and short cropping cycles. The 
intensity of chemical use associated with conventional potato production raises questions 
regarding potential environmental effects and long-term sustainability given increasing 
concerms about agriculture’s impact upon ground and surface water quality, worker safety, 


> This project ANE93-18 will receive $38,130 of ACE Funds for two years; and as LNE93- 
36 it will receive $111,870 of SARE Funds for two years. Total Non-federal matching 
funds $69,000, and Other federal matching funds: $377,971 have not been separated into 
SARE and ACE amounts yet. 


201 


food quality, wildlife and fisheries. Soil erosion and loss of organic matter and aggregation 
can limit productivity of potato soils. Long-term acreage and production trends for potatoes 
in Maine and the Northeast indicate that new production approaches are needed to improve 
soil productivity and to retain a sustainable Northeast potato industry. 


In this proposal, we request funds for a research project focusing on ecological soil 
and pest management strategies for potato cropping systems. Funds will be used to enhance 
the University of Maines’s interdisciplinary "Potato Agroecosystem" research project with 
particular emphasis on expanding the scope of our investigations of soil physical properties 
and insect biocontrol. Specifically, effects of organic soil amendments on soil physical 
properties and water holding will be studied with the goal of identifying alternatives to 
supplemental irrigation while reducing nitrate leaching losses. A multifaceted strategy for 
biological control of the Colorado potato beetle (CPB) will be examined. The research 
involved in this proposal is restricted to experiment station plots because it involves, in many 
cases, significant alterations of conventional potato production practices. The proposal 
addresses SARE FY’93 priority areas including: 1) protection of water quality; 2) analysis of 
economic costs and returns of alterantive management systems; and 3) studies of natural 
systems, including soil management effects on soil properties, nutrient dynamics, crop 
responses to alternative management strategies and biocontrol measures. Results of this 
project will help develop production systems that better maintain or improve soil productivity, 
and more efficiently control CPB, with reduced reliance upon purchased fertilizers and 
pesticides. 


Major Participants: 


University of Maine: Gregory A. Porter (Project Coordinator), Department of Plant, Soil & 
Environmental Sciences, 5722 Deeting Hall, Orono, ME 04469-5722, Phone (207) 
581-2943; FAX: (207) 581-2999. He will supervise crop establishment, crop growth 
and physiological measurements, and plot harvest. He will be a secondary supervisor 
of the Scientific Technician and supervise some of the soil analyses. He will report 
results on crop responses and their relationship to soil physical properties. 


C. Wayne Honeycutt, Soil Scientist & Faculty Associate, USDA-ARS, New England 
Plant, Soil, & Water Lab., University of Maine. He will direct a graduate student in 
the conduct of the studies below. 


An unnamed graduate student will assist in conducting these studies. 
M. Naguib Bedaiwy, Dept. of Plant, Soil & Environmental Sciences, Will conduct 
most of the soil sampling and analyses of soil physical properties and moisture content. 


He will be primary supervisor of the Scientific Technician and responsible for 
operation of the irrigation system. He will report results on soil physical properties. 


202 


Jefferey C. McBurnie, Dept. of BioResource Engineering, will conduct soil solution 
sampling and analyses. He will assist in irrigation system operation, soil sampling and 
will be a secondary supervisor of the Scientific Technician. He will report results on 
soil solution nitrate levels and adaptation of the two leaching models. 


E. Groden, Dept. of Entomology, is employed as a 50% appointment and so she has 
budgeted for one month summer salary. 


F.A. Drummond, Dept. of Entomology, is employed as a 50% appointment and so he 
has budgeted for one month summer salary. 


M.C. Marra, Dept. of agricultural and Resource Economics, will work with Drummond 
and Groden. 


203 


‘i 
} it : } ae a " a, id 
i ¢ - 4 4 . os ‘ i 
. AST eee 
™ rt *» 
: wet ort 6 Morty “ww iL , 
17 5 ' ’ 6 i ’ ; PET yy 
i r l i nie a4) i} f . a 
: z 
. ' ¥ 9 a %; ‘\¥ 504 
, ¥ 
' Awe fyb 
aa J ‘ahe UU 
. ng 
. ia a! 307 
) 
. 5 
ail J , hi : 
28 ig - 
& a 
' s 
i 
r 
ee = 
j J } 
’ } \) 7 
gi ‘ 5 - 
\ i 7 
and Vv 
vod , eo 7 ral. ¢ 
z i + mi Ful ¥ Ee 7 ~ 
_ ’ 4 ‘ “ ‘ 
* : i" i C; ‘ > i i : ait Gi 
+] . ' J 
. ‘ eae YM - 
’ . ‘ 
' ui, 4 iv oy M i ili (are 
4 oft c isgay' 
' 
in ; ; i MeSiSt In CORURCIiT Thee Shri : 


_ | ie) 
1 a | s’wy, Le al, Soll & Eviroeepents Sciets °s, Will ne 
si of the .cil suupiiny anit analvers of soil plead rigerties cod maoisione's 
pimny supervite of the Seienufie Techniven aed & pony ble for 
amo of che wHignalirw *yston... He will repdint regilts gu soli piry — 


; | is ok 


PART IV. FARMER/GROWER INITIATED GRANTS FUNDED IN 1993 


Table of Contents of PART IV 
FNE93-1: "Transplanting Cole Crops in Rye/Vetch Sod," ..... mprrarnis rata! At OS 208 


FNE93-2: "The Use of Rotational Grazing in the Production of Lambs for the Hothouse 
iar eta et ientee at peated ee ee TR wee lS ett pei By seh vepalee Ae LE SOT 208 


FNE93-3: "Integrated Crop Management for Greenhouse Bedding Plants with Emphasis 
on GiologicalsGontrol tities wes oo) apeomaes Sie 1 ShAcuat) aig th aaeatl! Ce. 28ut 208 


FNE93-4: "Evaluation of Five Organic Techniques on Controlling Flea Beetles on 
ICSTINE DCCs CLALOCS ammeter en Ty ec OM ye le) em oe) Get: he vets, ode 208 


FNE93-5: "The Evaluation of Different Rates of Compost Produced by the Lubke Method 


oOniooy beanny 1elds-anidsthe: Soi nade? tc seaewisodes fail} ah Rampersad Po Ra eo 208 
FNE93-6: "Development and Evaluation of an Alternative Ice House Refrigeration 

RAE 5 et. aes Aes tpl lal ie a) St ane MN Ur a ar 208 
fad eer ME rILISel OL TOCUCUON EET ONCCL umm yer at tt Oren recs eames sn sae, Oy acme 208 
PNES3-5.. Flame: Weed.Control in Cut FlowerProductionjet tc .e-1a5-<°9 fete bes 5 209 
FNE93-9: "Evaluation of the Economic and Environmental Impact of Amino Acid Based 

DPAV IT er ATOTIS Meter nee Orc vee ee Per enh ns ot atte 1 oer as, Woe eee ee ee 209 
FNE93-10: "Nutrient Management For Potatoes Used for Potato Chips," ........... 209 


FNE93-11: "Evaluation of a Fiber Flax Production System as a Low Input, Alternative 
Cropstom Northern NewiEncland sowie de 26% welaeubie TY aeyeed? Gary -<t S087: 209 


FNE93-12: "Bio-Control of Corn Earworm and European Corn Borer in Sweet Corn," .. 209 


FNE93-13: "Subterranean Clover as an Organic Mulch for Pumpkin Production," ..... 209 
FNE93-14: "Increasing Options for Cover Cropping in the Northeast," ............. 210 
FNE93-15: "Evaluation of a Biocontrol Method for Farm Fly Management," ........ 210 


205 


FNE93-16:. "Stewardship. Forestry onithe Parma... 
FNE93-17: "Utilizing Municipal Leaf Compost in Apple and Peach Production," ...... 
FNE93-18; "Reducing Deer, Damage toa Blueberry Plantation; “1... ee 


FNE93-19: "Small Farm Biogas Production@iaUse, "ees 205500. 7.. e005 ee 


FNE93-20: "Demonstrating a Sustainable Agricultural System by Using Beneficial 


Insects) oh iss isn a ee eee ee eee a eer 


FNE93-21: "Evaluation of Puna Chicory Overseeding in Sheep Pasture in Central New 


NY OF ck. Fed ws Bik LEAT ee: en Ree gO eg ee 
FNE93-22: "Deep Root Organic Truck Farmers Co-op Mentor Program," ........... 
FNE93-237"Mountain"Sheéep‘Project, “9URie? . ERE SVL, 52 COURNISYS ..2h-h ime 


PNE93-245 "Cranberry 20007 ite care meee cas een tae Ma ens Acme Meee vee 


FNE93-25: "Demonstrate the Effectiveness of Fiber-Producing Goats as an Alternative to 
Chemical Weed and Brush Control Relative to Pasture Reclamation and 


Management"o>. 22+, SY ESR RIA 06 10, RODEN 2H SORORIe, . Ok aae 


FNE93-26: "Integrated, Season Extension, Solar Greenhouse," .................. 


FNE93-27: "A Wetland Demonstration Project for Water Quality Improvement, Wildlife 


Habitat Creation, and: Farmer Edication;@t= 77.4 Aen ary. Fee, ee 


FNE93-28: "Leaf Compost Potting Project - N. Casertano Greenhouses & Farms," 


FINE93-29: Soil Heating in Unheated sl unneis | eee erent 
FNE93-30: “Growing Fish onan: Organic: arm, eeee ee ee ee 
FNE93-31: "New Sprayer Technology For Reduction of Pesticide Use in Apples," ..... 


FNE93-32: "Managing Crowded Woodlots though Shiitake Mushroom Production," ... . 


FNE93-33: "Evaluation of Integrated and Biological Pest & Disease Controls in 


Orchards,” 50.25: a a ee a ee et 


FNE93-34: "Demonstration of Living Mulch Systems for Low-Input Tomato 


Production eet, CS ABs, St DOT BIN, LODENOOIT BIO HOURRYS, 5G he 1. 


FNE93-35: "Evaluation of Alternatives to Synthetic Chemicals and Lime for Nutrient 
Supply, Weed Suppression, and pH Control on Raspberry Plants,"........... 


PE 7-56° UReactions:omPeracetio: Acido Botrytist@mereas Oolinsiqnin ©. a ees 


207 


Brief Descripitons of the Projects Funded: 


FNE93-1: "Transplanting Cole Crops in Rye/Vetch Sod," Erroll A. Mattox, Three Maples 
Farm, Rte. 1 Box 16, Hebron, MD 21830. Funding: $360 Mattox will evaluate the 
nitrogen availability and weed suppression capability of a rye/vetch cover crop for use 
with fall kale and collard production. 


FNE93-2: ''The Use of Rotational Grazing in the Production of Lambs for the Hothouse 
Market," Richard Leverett, RD2 Box 308, St. Johnsville, NY 13452. Funding: $2,250. 
Leverett will compare the growth rate of lambs on ewes grazed on intensive rotational 
pasture to the growth of lambs raised on ewes fed a silage/grain. One goal of the project 
is to demonstrate lower-cost alternatives to confinement feeding. 


FNE93-3: "Integrated Crop Management for Greenhouse Bedding Plants with Emphasis 
on Biological Control,"" Don Ziegler, Corn Crib, Boardman Street, Sheffield, MA 01257. 
Funding: $1,199 Ziegler will demonstrate an innovative, integrated approach to pest 
management for greenhouse bedding plants. The project is aimed at reducing pesticide use 
to cut production costs and reduce health risks for greenhouse workers 


FNE93-4: "Evaluation of Five Organic Techniques on Controlling Flea Beetles on Kennebec 
Potatoes," Myra Bonhage-Hale, La Paix Farm, HC 64 Box 17, Alum Bridge, WV 26321. 
Funding: $755. Bonhage-Hale will compare the effectiveness of five organic techniques 
of controlling flea beetles on potato plants. The project is aimed at demonstrating 
non-chemical pest controls and raising farmer awareness of non-toxic methods of 
controlling flea beetles. 


FNE93-5: "The Evaluation of Different Rates of Compost Produced by the Lubke Method 
on Soybean Yields and the Soil,"" David & Brenda Gaither, 8502-A Woodville Rd, Mt. 
Airy, MD 21771. Funding: $2,100. The Gaithers will evaluate application rates of 
compost produced by the Lubke method for soybean production.. They plan to produce the 
compost on their dairy farm and test three different application rates. The project is aimed 
at understanding how compost can enhance soil productivity and farm profitability. 


FNE93-6: "Development and Evaluation of an Alternative Ice House Refrigeration System," 
Charlie Chase, 124 Hall Rd, Green, RI 02827. Funding: $1,500. Chase will develop a 
working model of an environmentally safe, economical refrigerator. He will use ice 
formed inside a well-insulated room in the winter for cold storage of spring and summer 
fruits and vegetables, and evaluate its effectiveness in reducing labor, production costs and 
ability to extend the market calendar. 


FNE93-7: "Ginseng Production Project,'' Van and Edna Wysong, P.O. Box 476, Matoaka, WV 
24736. Funding: $1,750. The Wysongs, will conduct a pilot ginseng growing project. The 


208 


project is aimed at determining the feasibility of growing ginseng as a cash crop for 
additional income for Appalachian farmers. 


FNE93-8: "Flame Weed Control in Cut Flower Production," Paul Pieri, Maurolou Farm, P. 


O. Box 919, Little Compton, RI 02837. Funding: $1,350. Pieri will design and construct 
a hand cart-type flame weeding tool suitable for small scale use and farm trials. The tool 
will be tested on a variety of field grown cut flowers, planted in both beds and rows. The 
project attempts to address the high cost and difficulty of weed control in field grown cut 
flowers. At the conclusion of the project, the flamer will be turned over to and become 
the property of the Rhode Island Sustainable Agriculture Committee for farmer loan, farm 
demonstrations or further trials. 


FNE93-9: "Evaluation of the Economic and Environmental Impact of Amino Acid Based 


Laying Rations,"" Charles Wallace, P. O. Box 298, Turkey Lane Road, Winthrop, ME 
04364. Funding: $660. Wallace will evaluate the impact of amino acid-based layer rations 
on the performance of layer hens, nitrogen content of chicken manure and feed costs. 
Wallace’s project is aimed at reducing environmental impacts and improving farm 
profitability by cutting feed costs and the nitrogen content of manure. 


FNE93-10: "Nutrient Management For Potatoes Used for Potato Chips," Carl D. Smith, 


RR1 Box 1335, Corinna, ME 04928. Funding: $5,000. Smith will collaborate with five 
other potato growers to quantify the factors that affect color and composition of potatoes 
grown for chips. The project is aimed at achieving better understanding of the factors -- 
nutrients, soil types, climatic conditions and potato varieties -- that affect the 
characteristics required in potatoes by chip processors. 


FNE93-11: "Evaluation of a Fiber Flax Production System as a Low Input, Alternative 


Crop for Northern New England," Greg Ward, RR#1 Box 17, Limestone, ME 04750. 
Funding: $5,000. Ward will demonstrate fiber flax production by testing two 
disease-resistant varieties and harvest machinery from France. Ward’s project is aimed at 
testing a possible alternative crop to diversify farm income. 


FNE93-12: '"Bio-Control of Corn Earworm and European Corn Borer in Sweet Corn," 


Nicholas C. Maravell, Nick’s Organic Farm, 8565 Horseshoe Lane, Potomac, MD 20854. 
Funding: $1,51. Maravell will use multiple bio-control methods to control corn earworm 
and European corn borer in successive plantings of organic, fresh market sweet corn and 
develop procedures for farmers concerning scouting, timing of intervention and evaluation 
of results. Maravell’s project is aimed at reducing damage in later corn plantings and 
enhancing farm profitability for non-chemical farmers. 


FNE93-13: "Subterranean Clover as an Organic Mulch for Pumpkin Production," Robert 


K. Clark, Chestnut Run Farm, RR#1 Box 804, Woodstown, NJ 08098. Funding: $1,576 
Clark will test the use of subterranean clover as a mulch crop for co-cultivation with 
pumpkins. Clark’s project, aimed a reducing erosion and synthetic fertilizer and herbicide 


209 


use, will examine the effect of clover on weed pressure, soil nitrogen, erosion and 
pumpkin yields. | 


FNE93-14: "Increasing Options for Cover Cropping in the Northeast," Steve Porter, Porter 
Farms, 5020 Edgerton Road, Elba, NY 14058. Funding: $1,865. Porter will evaluate the 
suitability of alternative cover crops for vegetable growers. The project, which includes 
demonstrations and replicated plots, will test non-leguminous cover crops that grow 
rapidly that take up leachable nutrients before winter-killing. 


FNE93-15: "Evaluation of a Biocontrol Method for Farm Fly Management," Diane 
Matthews-Gehringer, Four Springs Farm, RD2 Box 243, Kutztown, PA 19530. Funding: 
$2,155. Matthews-Gehringer will compare the effectiveness of releasing parasitic wasps 
and insecticidal baits in reducing fly populations in hog and cattle housing. 


FNE93-16: ''Stewardship Forestry on the Farm," George W. Freeman, 831 Peterson Ave. Box 
667, Knox, PA 16232. Funding: $3,890. Knox will demonstrate the effects of different 
timber harvesting strategies in Pennsylvania hardwoods. The project will focus on the 
long-term economic effects of harvesting on the total farm budget. This 
demonstration/study will be maintained for at least 10 years as a training site for farmers 
and loggers by the Penn State Cooperative Extension, the Pennsylvania Bureau of 
Forestry, and others. 


FNE93-17: "Utilizing Municipal Leaf Compost in Apple and Peach Production," Steve 
Iuliucci,141 Route 73, South, RD 5, Braddock, NJ 08037. Funding: $2,403. Iuliucci will 
test the use of municipal leaf compost in apple and peach production. Iuliucci’s goals are 
to reduce fertilizer and pesticide use, to improve soil health and fertility, to reduce tree 
disease, and improve the economic viability of the orchard. 


FNE93-18: 'Reducing Deer Damage to a Blueberry Plantation,'"' William H. Sweet, 374 
Jericho Street, White River Junction, VT 05001. Funding: $500. Sweet will test several 
methods of reducing deer damage to his highbush blueberry plantation, including human 
hair and red peppers, and mechanical deterrents such as noise and light. 


FNE93-19: 'Small Farm Biogas Production & Use," Ara Lynn, Liberty Farm, RR2 Box 1737, 
Poor Farm Rd, New Ipswich, NJ 03071 Funding: $5,096. Lynn will demonstrate the 
construction and cost-efficient operation of a biogas digester to improve waste 
management and recycling. He also plans to determine the savings achieved by using 
biogas instead of electricity to heat chicken brooders and piglet creeps. Finally, Lynn will 
analyze the nutrient value of the digester’s effluent and determine its value as a 
replacement for other fertilizers. 


FNE93-20: "Demonstrating a Sustainable Agricultural System by Using Beneficial Insects," 


James I. Munger, 908 Division Road, S. Dartmouth, MA 02748. Funding: $1,306. Munger 
will demonstrate the use of beneficial insects and predators to control insect pests in 


210 


greenhouse production of high-quality, European cucumbers. The project is aimed at 
demonstrating ways to reduce pesticide use in greenhouse production systems. 


FNE93-21: "Evaluation of Puna Chicory Overseeding in Sheep Pasture in Central New 
York," Karl North, Northland Sheep Dairy, RD 1, Box 107B, Marathon, NY 13803. 
Funding: $1,975. North will test puna chicory overseeding in intensively grazed sheep 
pasture. North’s project is aimed at developing low-cost, soil-building, and 
resource-conserving alternatives to confinement and feedlot systems of producing meat 
and milk. 


FNE93-22: "Deep Root Organic Truck Farmers Co-op Mentor Program," Dennis Sauer, 
RR1 Box 606, Hardwick, VT 05843. Funding: $3,300. This project will catalog 
information needed to determine the impact of various farm prices on yields and make 
that information available to members and the larger farm community. One goal of this 
project is to increase the co-op’s acreage base with skilled farmers, something needed to 
expand its markets and the overall security of the producer coop. 


FNE93-23: "Mountain Sheep Project,'' David Major, RFD #3 Box 265, Putney, VT 05346. 
Funding: $3,600. Major will graze sheep on the slopes of a Vermont ski resort to maintain 
the slopes in an environmentally sound manner and strengthen the link between Vermont’s 
tourist industry and agriculture. 


FNE93-24: "Cranberry 2000," Darin Hammond, Webb District Road, P. O. Box 115, 
Harrington, ME 04643. Funding: $6,250. Hammond will test cranberry varieties for their 
suitability to eastern Maine climates. Hammond will also determine the different types and 
quantities of unwanted weeds growing in two growing environments and analyze the 
water requirements of the planted cranberries in the two environments. The project will 
establish cranberry plots in upland areas, rather than wetlands. 


FNE93-25: 'Demonstrate the Effectiveness of Fiber-Producing Goats as an Alternative to 
Chemical Weed and Brush Control Relative to Pasture Reclamation and 
Management," Ellen Reker, RD 3 Box 3378, New Tripoli, PA 18066. Funding: $5,000. 
Reker will demonstrate the use of cashmere goats to reclaim a 13-acre abandoned pasture. 
Reker’s goal is to show that the goats can be used as a cost-effective alternative to 
chemical weed and brush control. She will also characterize the types of weeds and brush 
goats can control. 


FNE93-26: 'Integrated, Season Extension, Solar Greenhouse," Steve Gilman Ruckytucks 
Farm, 130 Ruckytucks Road, Stillwater, NY 12170. Funding: $5,825. Gilman will 
construct and test an innovative greenhouse designed to extend the growing season with 
using fans or added heat. The goal is to demonstrate an alternative greenhouse technology 
that does not require the large amounts of energy and expensive back-up systems typically 
used in greenhouse production. 


211 


FNE93-27: ''A Wetland Demonstration Project for Water Quality Improvement, Wildlife 
Habitat Creation, and Farmer Education,"' Derek S. Dickson and B. C. Dickson, RD2 
Box 268, Franklin, PA 16323. Funding: $5,000. The project leaders will build three 
constructed wetlands on their farm to improve water quality and wildlife habitat and 
educate other farmers. By taking selected areas of the farm out of production, the 
Dicksons are attempting to balance productivity with environmental goals. 


FNE93-28: "Leaf Compost Potting Project - N. Casertano Greenhouses & Farms," Duncan 
McDougall, 1030 S. Meriden Rd., Cheshire, CT 06410. Funding: $2,895. McDougall will 
test various potting mixtures for container-grown perennials using leaf compost produced 
at Casertano Farms. The project is aimed at finding a cost-effective potting material, and 
possibly saving the town money by eliminating a town-run leaf recycling center. 


FNE93-29: "Soil Heating in Unheated Tunnels," Michael Collins, RR 3 Box 1006, Putney, 
VT 05346. Funding: $973. Collins will develop a solar soil-heating system and compare 
tomatoes grown in heated soil with tomatoes grown in unheated soil. Collins project is 
aimed at designing a method for extending the early part of the growing season for 
tomatoes and increasing grower profitability. 


FNE93-30: "Growing Fish on an Organic Farm,'' George McNulty, 36 Route 72, 
Manahawkin, NJ 08005. Funding: $2,600. McNulty will incorporate a fish production 
system onto his organic vegetable farm. He will compost fish waste materials for use in 
his cropping system, and use culture water for hydroponics. McNulty plans to market the 
fish with the organic vegetables at local restaurants. 


FNE93-31: "New Sprayer Technology For Reduction of Pesticide Use in Apples,"' W. H. 
Palmer, Springbrook Fruit Farms, 5916 South Avenue, Williamson, NY 14489-9328. 
Funding: $4,060. Palmer will evaluate a new airblast sprayer that is designed to reduce 
the amount of pesticide applied to apple orchards by targeting the spray to only the actual 
tree canopy areas. 


FNE93-32: 'Managing Crowded Woodlots though Shiitake Mushroom Production," Pam 
Talley,.RT2 Box 230A, Caldwell, WV 24925, Funding: $3,000. Talley will produce 
shiitake mushrooms using management techniques aimed at improving the long-term 
productivity of the woodlot. Shiitake mushrooms are cultivated on hardwood logs. Talley 
plans to thin crowded stands, innoculate the cut logs with shitake spawn, clear the 
understory to increase air circulation to the desirable trees. Talley will also test a new 
packaging method for the mushrooms in an attempt to create a value-added product. 


FNE93-33: ''Evaluation of Integrated and Biological Pest & Disease Controls in Orchards," 
Dwight Mickey, 2197 Lincoln Way West, Chambersburg, PA 17201 Funding: $1,839. 
Mickey will evaluate the effectiveness of reduced chemical measures in a commercial 
peach and apple orchards. The project will use mating disruption and pheromone traps for 
insect control, and will compare conventional chemical fumigation with using canola oil 


212 


to control dagger nematodes. Diseases will be monitored and the participants will make 
predictions for pears and applies with a leaf wetness recorder.. 


FNE93-34: "Demonstration of Living Mulch Systems for Low-Input Tomato Production," 
Jim Quarella, Bellview Farms Inc., 429 Weymouth Rd., Buena, NJ 08310. Funding: 
$3,575. Quarella will demonstrate the use of a living mulch system for production of 
plum Tomatoes. Quarella will look compare the living mulch system, which uses hairy 
vetch, to bare ground and plastic mulch systems. 


FNE93-35: "Evaluation of Alternatives to Synthetic Chemicals and Lime for Nutrient 
Supply, Weed Suppression, and pH Control on Raspberry Plants,"" John R. Shaw and 
Mark Towle, The Raspberry Farm, P.O. Box 700, 203 Kensington Road, Hampton Falls, 
NH 03844. Funding: $2,500. This project will test alternatives to chemical herbicides, 
fertilizers and process lime on raspberry plants. Shaw and Towle will use ash from 
wood-burning utility boilers, poultry manure, wood chips and composted biomass in the 
project. 


FNE93-36: "Reactions of Peracetic Acid to Botrytis Cinerea,'' James Perkins Seven Springs 
Farm, 3056 E. Walker Rd., Bath, PA 18014-9349. Funding: $1,830. James Perkins, of 
Bath, who will receive $1,830 to experiment with the use of peracetic acid to control soft 
fruit rots in strawberries and raspberries. The project’s goals are to determine whether 
peracetic acid (which breaks down to vinegar and water) could provide an 
environmentally benign alternative to currently available fungicides. | 


Z13 


| / oh 
patinegs od Sgmaege Delete ditenigets enor e Weal 


meleig 70. Re ot! Maa Lists 4S. ei PLUS ay 
» Acs. Ww wait ud 


a. okt Mave, « gave’ ot adie nerve ia i . 


* a a? 
f S\ chung Prodi aay? Waived. ee 1 
- ’ , ‘ ees . ; wr _ : > ; 
' Weea: T gaviLTuls- ae: dhe erentany thescnibeges MODS Ed: 
A en gery ewiiitoo Foul | fom: <) ge oe 
? 4 o opeaedee bt tesa cided 
i 9 ; 7. ‘ i. Pi I ie mY oy eute 7! a 
- ¢ : os 4 step | * Y a Ra ? { as Die " 
te . , . ey : ¥ 
a 4 . r ‘si e. eS yig 
, Pt ity : VISE 3 } Wj ous A J Ging: ‘ 
. ’ Y f 4 a! di | Lt Z Pm ry ae 
a f - ; 4. 2 x 
i] F J-" 
; : = r = cy? 
i ’ 19 ¥) s 9 f « , * 4 RB IBS } 
‘* « — ’ ar Ae a * P “ F 
Re vad a . be ° J i€ 
ad ? . i! oa aT ? . ee ie, ae. ra “5 fig? , sly 
i j 4! rh (pl + ey pers <> | Le rq ratis od AOD im Ree e1: Va : 
. i i : } ‘y i ea iM 4 cy a + S oud hb i) tit “i . te) $0 Ky vt) sre Ww 
Sie Cyoerwed te Deen aged etn get erie 
‘ ¢ 3 49° ‘ tis 2 f 
\ ? . 
. in! - ( - 
re 4 © i dF ¥ on 
¢ x 
? id $ vif ’ Gi * fa n +: LJ Vi hrm r red nl tian 
| LGA WV 30935, Funding? 53,000, | 
‘ 1 6T te Lec ue wh a 8. oy ig si i “ 
. iy? Saitek! me wh sre Cthuivaied on hat wi logh 
. : . whe Peo lv 0-4 RO 
hin crowded stands innomulate the evt luest wi, shteke tpawpy 
» , ? by ban ¢ v er ; ne  t 
undepetx ) uatreaee aculsaen to the aac of my: 8 OES wel ace 
od fox the maelwoors a etoahigt te create a vitae rehind, 
: rere 
a : 35 
>4 valieotiny of Luitecested and Mink went Pen & Dicase Controd in 
; . 1 ~~ : 7 y a +t. 4 
WN it] 7197 Linowan way West, E wobersbarg,.-PA A? 22m) pins ng 
mabey will evabiatis (be cfieetl versie weer cee! 
peur mie OCDE SK. [et Bre let will ue anaticiy 
i? vise), and weil compete coneenbienel eneante 
, . 7 7 : + 
. re ? ; 
¥ a ; Ai oo tL, 


ed 


SUBJECT INDEX 


Pete iat Villke COQPETAU Ves ax < y cnclinin eee wk sche Gulia patos wets Se ied ah: 94 
PremculuralsECONOMICS) 4... cee few cans 92534248.70, 73,88, 101, 129 1334] 476155 
UMC MUTAMECONONNStMAMEREMIE ca co mle cs. % wcon ns bn ae se mh ec nw pers 47, 53, 67, 109, 190 
Pomrcena la CineCr NO memati oak cute es eee ie ye OT Oe Pe 1. 1131.96 
Pvorreullinalmescat cis LNSUTULCA uta dco Poe Ae os ee ,. 22 FS 33, 199, 200 
PVCULUTAIPRESCAICUESeIVICGw ses er Loa ee ee ee. oe Eee SSR SE 84, 88, 169 
DLO O LU GMM ee we Gareth ake ee tea pect ie 2 23.105.0/, 09) 80115 211 Geos Wen 9 
BUEOWOS MR aroha Meek oldie se oe whi oe BORD, TOE 93,.985.02,572,18ley 124.4142 
BOLONONMLY gris oat Siw ope 22-24.2597 60307 I 2AT3 E804 SUASSEL SY 12201626173 4193 
AUEALT A eee one Ae ods Bl ed Ola Bats cect me esd os Pee 11, 99, 112, 175, 199, 200 
BUCCAL ENE AVE ee hee ee a ude woe PG Ores s eeu Oe 100 
Gitta] Meee Ae. ks 6 atl. Me WELT, AS) BR TS. 4, 8, 13, 14, 33, 43, 44, 53, 80-82, 94, 95, 
113, 114, 162-164, 183, 184, 195, 196, 200 

Be tieabmee dl tim wie ie ye Se ee ais 44, 94, 95, 162, 163, 195 
EIA SCICNCCHNIEN Itt) gens he eh Piva oe acc wela oa wp ease gees 94, 113, 196 
BOD ween wee Peek AER Bo Owe auth: ply ete, JAS. UO geek 152 
AOD ICMEME TC IUD, hile AUR ks wk ook oe a 4,11, 14, 26-29, 33, 36, 42, 43, 46-52, 70, 
71, 106, 138,168, 1904199..206.210,.212 
EMEEGOOCME NL etl ena A ghee MIR oihy ot, ip SSeS. RP ODO! OF... 47, 148, 149 
TAGE AM NTO ws ey es oes a Rade) bake Latte. 8, J 43 etadees elie 95 
RENILAD a, one Sl URC ir a ety Onn ae I angen, eee hea Pe Om 9, 68, 114 
CAT SMe hee agtt ot ce . Ve. Bene, NE eae Glo a eee ee 68, 69, 98, 99, 145, 175 
NECIP SOUP cee h aol ts ee SSE OI. 60! 9, 14; 23, 27, 57, 87, 114, 115, 167, 194-197 
Betsvillete st. l-ee! NLS! Ral. 08 2! 081... 38, 68, 69, 83, 84, 133, 135, 136 
CEES ONES, OGIO eae Be By Se rn ee PP 63, 64 
ISTOCOTILLO IMEI, chores. owe tos, Giers- chak og ands ge 33, 35, 45, 47, 91, 104, 111, 129, 149, 151, 


158, 159, 168, 187, 189, 192, 193, 

$97, 201%.202. 2052210 

MGT SICALRCOIUEO Wes secure wasp teach ics¥- copoqsieeak-/oa1ga%as 28, 32, 44, 50, 88-90, 92, 103, 110, 128, 
1BOR 15.16.1589, 1597 180R 182) 

19292 012 2027 2052-208 


uso pignleconiuomsntensive pest management |. Vay. cae se te 44, 88, 89 
UO Sie al rye te ROOIIITO SEN 6 i iccedecd ncycpoyea Westy ndey=s9a8seseas.+)> TRERIIR Sv tarssen's least 63 
PTI ASE Ce ern, CHR, CN chert eS GEO ase uo, ece, sea cene es JAD. Mae 64, 100, 125, 213 
jalevd@ Stole hidals oe Ae Te, oer 90-92 
ERE DOLTICaMMCE. © clk feet bd See et ee, ee OR. Td. Ty BA 8K 106, 107 
LAO CELV MEAT ie ee ak oe Ae oe Ae aly he ae Rake ES 106, 150, 170; 171, 206, 210 
at bRNEE Oo Ok Zo gouges gees: let oy anne On Sen tee ce a Se 90; 919-104,.207,-213 
rari leameereeee ells at FO. PO cee Ae OE. 1 i ae tA de 2h At. 90) 91.171 
EL EAASIC HARE AE OPPS SUE Pick oo econ ee we leva po Cink ae BOM, web bis ee0 us la tl2 
eer Gee ee ec UES ok EE ee Es arn Sa a ed eg Ow deo ee Be a 
Forse ty RE RE rea Ar te esi Sencha ne tae. atacs. Moar, abu d Ao -8 62, 63, 65 


buckwheat)... desolate oe EE ee eee 63, 64, 68 


budget. 5G. nash eee oe Se eee 14, 82, 120, 128, 145 5155156" 1608210 
bulk density ¢. 0.43 biwd x ee ava e even su hee tue bu o ule eRe Seen 55 
cabbage® taka NEG Gi. yO OEE wes on cae Ga ate Ga ee ae 81, 99, 145 
Canola «0S. he ahh el eye ee 4 he Ron 4 RO eee ee eae 11,)110qdd2s L7SsHao set 
Captan: 4 a3 Pav se nd Oe A A Ae eee iu we ee ele diets ee 50 
oase*studies? 4x4 a shee 4 AM a as Ve ew eS ee ee ee eee 14, 31, 66, 164 
cauliflower i vii yee k «eee SNe Ye ol De 5 ee eee eee 99 
cereal ordain «Oh Cl A 8, RO SAR Aba a Cie le mo eit we ok yc acme a ee ne ee 43, 57-59 
cereal: myer hd 4a HOG, WRG 25 ek cine We w Aiki s a eluents wlelp bier eran ene er 10, 84 
Chesapeake Bay Foundation®..09 4 \ a). qo? ei ombare conk py oe oe 174 
Chesapeake Waildlite: Heritage 4s. sew ee oot whe keen Cee en ee 22, 78 
Chicken @% fora Ae ed ee i eee A ee eS Regs aes 27,124, 172, 195¢209R210 
Clover-sOr¥e 465, LPP oe GPE at 3755, 57, 84,122, 123. 169, 178, 179, 181,205, 203m 
Colorado“potato beetle PO rs02, PRL TEE 2.05. 8 89, 158, 159, 175, 191, 192, 201 
COMMUNITIES Oe etek Sein aM ih Mines at ne A henilin Gok a aN meter ete eee 7508, Lided 83 
COMMUNITY 45 Keciak ee Ag Cr ron ee nol ie wee 4, 17, 51, 78-80, 87, 105, 131, 134-136, 211 
COMPOS 414A Ve wikis Se ere Ree ben ee 4, 25, 26, 33, 35, 91, 158, 159, 167, 182-184, 

201, 205, 206, 208, 210n212 
COMPUtel PrOocraniess ae red MIG AN ci ps 5 lene eee ok bee eRe ade eee ee 53, 66 
Comerence thee. a ae aly, oe ee eine ee ee ae wig 45, 112, 127, 139-141, 143, 149 
COMSUMET, SUDVEYS: 25, 245 Mem ee wide ov te 80 pecan ote as dee deer ea kee bo Ge ge oF 
CONTINUOUS. COM: Gaeta, CHR altace SNR ie elem eed means Sea ks Reus A 58, 178 
conventional ™ s8@ 207. .-.5..%.«<.5- 12, 26,.30, 32-34, 37, 38,.52, 63, 68,.69, 74, 7Sangeesy: 


101, 103, 104, 120, 122, 123, 125, 139, 142, 145, 147, 148, 

150, 156-159, 169, 170, 175, 186-189, 197, 201, 202, 212 

CONVETSION. ¥ 4:4 4/4, Raa SEE AR es. ee ae ss eee: baw Aue Rav cre as coke: 102, 103, 114, 140 
Cooperative: Extension «4% «\F..58 26% 2 9, 12, 19,.22, 23, 25,.26, 29-32, 36-3847 548560: 
65, 67, 71, 73, 80, 87, 96, 98, 1027 103, Lisa 

137, 139; 142, 156, 174, 177, 180, 18251863 ae 

Copper! EYE ahh Sve RS AVE ee iG, Mite ts. te eke necks Meee ie pe etlyoss bryos fdemeys SRO aE Ladd 72 
Com? § ase. ee AR SE 9, 10, 12, 13, 44, 58, 62-64, 68, 69, 72, 83-85, 99, 110, 111, 
121-127, 138, 145, 154, 169, 170, 173-175, 178, 

186, 200, 205, 208, 209 

Cornell Cooperative: Extension ¥.24-.5 0000.45. vee sel wesw sues ce eerie 23, 47, 65, 73, 180 
Comelinrversity a=. <A, 80ers ete. tse ee 23, 25, 28-30, 32, 34, 36-42, 47, 53, 59, 60, 62, 
68, 69, 72, 74, 76, 77, 85, 88, 90, 93, 96, 98, 

101.102, 1052121, 122.0128, 133, S0n153 too 

177, 179, 198, 199 


COST. SE etic ts, ole Peta Be eee ee 9,- 16, 48, 54, 55, 64, 65,107, 114, 12g 2OnaBO: 
134, 140, 145, 148, 150, 152, 160, 

164, 174, 175, 177, 187, 189, 190, 194, 198, 208-212 

COTEOM 4 25 er acta gai st PRA Cie ge ee RN Gn ete ee ete oe 178 


MOVELACIOP sh. WAR eee che. 31, 58, 62-65, 69, 75, 84, 85, 99, 100, 111, 142, 143, 145, 146, 


173, 208 
I Ee, OS Ga AT tS cera gteee EMS GOS cru wn 33, 54, 66, 163, 168, 199, 200 
apes (ela yet GES 1M MD 2 ee Gt OL ie tok SY a 8 re ee ae 84 
ropa vadhaccimentsASSOCIMUON: << cen dannbnn ewww aaa dads sbroity s CEN 593560273 
CLO LIC OLAUON ON ak eee ate cee) tee. OL Bek al LIA 74 TEZS VISsee Set 79 
ELODDINGMSYStCMIS] AA MT8 aS VS oO. 25, 33-35, 43-45, 58, 63, 67, 68, 72-75, 98, 121-123, 


125-127, 144, 145, 153-155, 157, 158, 167, 168-170, 

176-179, 201, 202 

CUILEVALI OL as tt OR tes allel. ee! 3,045 45,:87, 1005132, :153-155;-1585201, 209 
OEM et. no 4 Anes 9, 22-24, 29, 33, 36, 37, 42, 43, 45, 53-58, 60, 65, 66, 73, 74, 78, 
80, 81, 83, 5, 87, 94-96, 113, 162-165, 168, 174, 179, 183, 184, 

199592009208;.211 


PURE EAE TICE mateins ty Bite Ally bees) Bint bars WY v.65 BRAUN fIetps HMiree kites sh ey 22, 23, 42, 74, 78, 81, 85, 184 
CEEADASCMMNEN © aie le CPs eerberee At er hols A hid hx Rare es Wa aw oreo 26, 140, 176, 185 
OAC MEER en Petey she Wy, hs A cath Westie Rares Gt dae ees Wale lel aats: 97 
RSPUNIS LL ALLO RINL ALUM ene e: 6, Sy ashe vk dav rey Chas xb ness MAE A nei ss Se eK Ba ee STORET 185 
PepartnenwomeA Sriculturec. We ah, od ee VOL LIE) e. Daly 33.0142; 1455177519061 97 
ELIS OSUULi Leet eee phe ee SRO. k PON See Pl De crits oct: iv x Pode eh alee as alee 33, 83, 200 
RUISCCUSINAPKCIITION WG). gh Gh g Pare ene er meted coi. fd, 0 TM. 29 145 
disease -OUL, 09% «VEL EP 4, 10, 28, 29, 36, 44, 46-52, 76, 88, 90-92, 95, 103, 104, 112, 


L14® 115;, 1287 1305, 132,.148,. 149) 152; 17 el8iyd 88, 
190% 206,209, 2107 212 


SS MOCALIONM eat Ge NeMiGh OP en Gu Mel: MONE OGL G Ii. wee ee ewe ee 68, 69 
RCRD Ate R aie) MOM ERR ONE GE WI SG Rec ee be tie ed i ea eee 55 
ENG OL Pana rea SOR FEUER rr PANG Bs Wide UIE over ge Tae snd cleo ve vig sccvsi vgs de ae ae distur i ws 4882S NGI 111 
ERIC CEL OP ONAEE© arr Ry bots abv es LENS KA) ems GoGo ps gs ave rice vocs'ce crardege Ge ari e oe Gia oe 8, 49, 50, 156 
BECO DISCREET RT Ve REN, AM Ch alte Roki gl yO) aii ae eics coco gieis wl We eo ys 53, 54, 67, 68 
ECOMOIICABAIVSISUN A, ARO Wcgtht & yoekel. 6 foe da a ds ee 26,695.143,°48. 54), 61, °62.473, 1112, 

129. 132. 133, 133i S651 88 
CGOHOMIORVIADINTYRV ADT boat Oe .8t) GOO LrPR. octane 44. 29.0. BO. e. , 4, 18, 210 
economicallymuae y+ eeu. MeL... TR1055124106,.108, 116,.138, 164,177; 1788191 
ey SECILL IMMER 4 eM WIENER TA ve ebee ie Aah. WW Vin (Fiat sbags'vhy tivesgnaes -e¥a6i8ine as 17, 26, 32, 167, 187-190 
SEL NINN rhs Be NRA Nya it seck <7 sas nohicy seed sce eho seater ages woth Cupelteeles (46 i¥oe ook ote okt 44, 88, 89 
RE PPEB ECM I= SCL VICES aa prec ew ah te hs ec bite 0d Fairs vb Suey Senate A Ca PA ty Noes Fegede A he WAGED Bb a3 
COLL Y Le meM MMP Fe x Wah Are BE ce Fe Ialdy se rh td Helos oa weedy ed apacares yoy) LOLIO 1S. 11681 L819 
SIT PId SOND UCC Meee. ee MCE ie bn ois se tht bn toon es eects oy 8e8 ti sy #8 6 9p 0cF eee ele RE BS 155 
EMOMOLOS Yam. EMMOTT. 5 2. 23,24, 23,028, O2,-46,47,059, 70, 72, 76, 88, 90je1 D105: 


128, 133, 134, 137, 147, 149, 158, 170, 174, 179, 182, 
190-193, 198, 203 


environmentallyao% .S.0rlG 0260, eletl... BV, JE 1,5 1),89, 112,114,131, 136,138,148; 
149, 156,°164) 172,178,208, 211.7213 
ee eT Re oF es ie one Fw afin Sin hn Wl 4 Ge wey Pe Ay ape, 95, Bok ese ds Spee 23 


OM 


CTOSIOINMH AA. ee at ha eet ee Me 3, 7, 10, 29, 37, 58, 62, 63, 81, 83, 98-100, 113, 114, 140, 
144, 158, 186, 201, 209, 210 


expermmentystation . 4 okt. aoe on ee 26, 28-30, 32, 33, 37, 41, 47, 53, 76, 84, 96, 98, 101, 

128, 144, 150, 154, 159, 170, 174, 177, 184, 188, 198, 202 
CXDELESVSICIN 2S oe nicate Fee ee bic ee eee 38, 71, 134-136, 156, 157, 192 
EXTENSION! | wakes, cecal to ce & ce 4, 5, 8, 9, 12, 14-16, 19, 22, 23, 25-34, 36-38, 41, 44-48, 51, 


53-55, 58, 60-62, 65, 67, 70-75, 78-81, 83, 85-88, 90-92, 94, 
96-99, 102-104, 109, 110, 112, 113, 117, 121-123, 126, 128, 
129, 133, 137-145, 147-150, 153-156, 159-163, 165, 169, 
173, 174, 176-180, 182, 186, 187, 189, 190, 191-193, 

196, 198, 206, 2b0g@ it 


falleseededs \WWNAn an tigi! CLI WeebR. 08. F eS. OE. BN a ee 10, 85 
FATIMIE MONSIAUON .) cs oo hs ee ie i Oe ek oe eee ee 60, 73, 84, 176, 191 
TArHPiNCOME Hs. ao.P om haw: ca wu he Boo toatl Plas bla ews Er ee ee 75, 185, 209 
farmemanagementeeie : 5. kik ole tae 23, 24,.35, 36, 45,,535:54; 73, 96, 131s 

162-165, 188, 190, 196 
TATMTMANAGET wk $5 6 St ns Ho Silos ne de wh Qe Me epee ee amu neat a ee 81, 83, 143, 174 
FAarMerge \ 4 nGeh. we ch ul des 3-5, 13,.15, 19, 22, 23, 25, 26, 30; 31, 34,414 42; 44,145548, 


53, 54, 60, 68, 74, 78-81, 85, 86, 89, 91, 94, 96, 99, 102, 105, 

110, 116, 131, 134, 137-144, 147, 153, 154, 162, 163, 165, 167, 

180, 182-187, 190, 193, 197, 205, 206, 208, 209, 212 

farmerset, Armee St Ped athe 355,) 7215, 17-19925-27, 29, 32, 34,35, 37, 49, 53-56, Ssm0u 
62-66, 68, 69, 73-75, 78-81, 84, 85-89, 92-94, 97, 102, 114, 115, 

121-124, 126, 134, 137-146, 154-157, 160-164, 169, 173, 174, 

175-177, 179, 183-186, 193, 195, 200, 206, 209-212 


feedlot: 4a... 64 Gk As Kantor er tO ee ROL, TS ete a 37 Did 
POTUCLILSS PMS 8614: 65 ny E55 0s ir ge ad's can coe es hm WSC ete ae Sia eg a 55:56 
fertilityase. ERRORS «ho Gl eons temeae 4,11; 23} 24)'57) 58) 72, 83,92, 101, 103 1115 WG, 

122, 128, 140, 171, 179, 192, 196, 210 
TOLTHIZErS% 2GGhenh ate. 45, 3, 4, 9-12, 27, 58, 64, 69, 71, 72, 84, 85, 91-93, 113, 116, 117, 


120, 128-132, 144-146, 164, 167, 170-174, 177, 178, 181, 188, 
18954.947,195, 1975199.2200 72092210 


TESOUCr MEL see Oe Doe ag WR, tens te8laste ts vkapad ee chee ek ARES eee ane 10,411, 110, LI2s 1462121 
PeEAICOMT EH, 906, 4. cers Ronson eal oes alancae ctu) Meta ten a a ee 9, 154, 174 
field ccrop semen atiwe- Sateen 50-4 sbnss-saccas sop covdwnenesdbaaveueantyhowess ego cE 13,25,j2 299 80 
field cdayse: websites 4. Mb, cess snscne decree ce oceateunUlte Bede Ceres 81, 117, 126, 144, 181, 195, 197 
field tOULs: «4.4 ra+s*cn. ts top ceaeae set hese s9cy Sete Ahad bores MO ee ee ee ee 34, 102, 103, 154 
fieldtest™® 2°? .0'. 85, GY AGP Oe OG Sas, ee OS Set a 71,4106, ABTS :4129 
fieldtesting V4 ..955 «ERE, oVPd NRL ed eek Cebit it es ee eee hee pee 130 
PiST SWART Sul sos sata ete eae Seeh eOR ee eae ee ee 17,429-131,.172, 2004202 
forape OS) 0254 Ph) eek oad! 29, 33, 37, 43, 53-58, 65-67, 80-83, 95, 114, 141, 163, 200 
fordge:management + P09 cOG2.48 PE Oo ou. 4 i) ee A eas Pe 66, 83 
fossil’ fuel « i600: et ot eo tw ap ey de eh hth od ee ee, ee, 31, 144 


218 


EULA ate eh Ll, 3, 11, 12, 14, 23, 24, 27-30, 33, 37, 41, 44, 46-48, 50-52, 71, 78, 
79, 90-92, 97, 101-104, 107, 109-112, 128, 130, 131, 172, 
LS 851 9052 1ee 2 13 


PIAL A yeh tk, OW GVM ed Ee MAG Be Te Oo cece ea dod 11, 44, 109 
INCE AC Tim Peet rie HPA Ae Vie wy bea alka Parks kn os cee maesid. ix os Rene Dd 35, Ub, 902 770:4192.4212 
EATER FG eo. its 4 Phase whe ode ky oo US Behe a LB 10282932, 103, <150-ES226198 
PUIINCHOCE, 2OOd soil, eed ancl, OE! CCT 28.28 06 2: t1,.48,.50-52. 76, 77,, 130171641 72 
ee ee SOCLALC SEVER Be A Rp BAn: seis deeming Monee Gio Se pos Ese ee ee AS hha de kecs lek cn a me 86 
OLY De meeaR eh ae OTR ere Bk wae. ee Nclayi se es.ct ke owned ack we aa ned oe eo od 90.49 leel27 
Pee ARTETA OT) rer RNG NPE: WENO oe Us faery Gelrsfo ac Giosnirn soe Bose eo Dw ee wah 8 68, 84, 100 
SCA IASLILne: Feta. HRTEM PISS ek OL. on a cw co ce we walle O 64, 92, 134-136 
NOS. ple Aileen Bee, OR 30,3752; 761977, 101-104 
nS) LT Sead ae 0s Nd oe oe ee ne ae eS YA 76, 77, 103, 104 
SEINE MA WIRE terse Fe sancaacxc sc vdiea ne 44 derhd an toe 13, 29, 37, 54-57, 64-66, 79-83, 94, 95, 205, 208 
pili coatee EATING oe ia oe Ws 9 NY. 8 es pcb os By ox a4. inc do aces moo» Mee de ake OG, hy. BF 81587 159.51 7662 01 
ET OMUICIEITCTB Ds Pane eE PE chot ake te ks vee 3;-9;-10, 12,.27,.58, 59, 69, 84, 120, 17ed84-5195 
ProunuwaremscomarminauOneit: .. 6. oa. Jeo dpe tes, od, Oe. 7 58, 69, 84, 120, 171 
Bene PICA ALOE ACTUAL UN wc. 4. Site atyes GMs phe Me Se 4Cke bed 46 Fe wR on waves vs A GA as bee OE 84, 194, 195 


EBEO VCL OM Sy 90 Hs waeds de Hide 4 ba Sto Bip 2al 3748528529, v ol 30, 98,,43, 495.4 1-515 160-635 470. Wis 
; 79, 80, 89, 91-93, 98-100, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 109-112, 

115-117, 119-121, 129-132, 134-136, 138-140, 142, 144, 145, 

140% 15554 7401767177, .182, 188,189,192, 199.209..210 


HAINVAVEICH es fk h eee, PO) phe J BO, f 62-65, 69, 84, 99, 100, 144-146, 173, 186, 213 
Reet neg MO Ne a a ea ay ds gen cases as Oe LC bs seas vs Slavin as cecyeoe ace’ co ends cae <i Leap teat 4, 16 
HEINE TG MENGE Tefen PRD 8 TER Om Oper re Ore ne i re, es ae a ne A Rees eS Nae 83 
eG PRCC SG EPS E EPA Aca OM rc REN Os ee ccs 0a ch oes wan ke Das egs ol co bOhe ae ie Ldgecs g0 page ville wie oo RQOE OR 83 
tees Oo BR oe RP 0 Ee rr nS mee. Aan ee ee 81 
Ne i ey Oe Mere eed Pd ee Se ay enee uae 4 sad is aoaldk ie (ead > ae woh @ eu pers 82 
HELGE C motes neta sn basen se gncv Oy: gt tte td vad ee A. 357314 637655.69, 81). 99)8100) 1135 1288129; 

144, 146, 154, 169, 171, 189, 209 
Horticulture. Or aut O%..7!) 01. 2 ALES 4, 13, 32, 33, 46, 47, 70, 76, 90, 98, 147, 182, 189 
Miccerviccatralunoers .Oe- sae a Bete ty ee, Jute, LEO, ART. LAR, S38. 14k. 13524 86, 87 
EITC L1CMM Eh RN, ge ©. 0 Da, Meher Oe tgs Bh eee Re dG 71, 75, 185, 188, 209 
NTIS CL SUSCEDUDILILY sis. bastusece dese iess vaeu se oes SIOMIOORA, patitnrigts. hes bot tinct bly bead, 92 
RTE CLC OM Pw te ou ok ceed Wey Sd cs ww ghee aw Che themes eva 117. 89,,93,,104, 150, 171, 172.3197.198 
POO tie le tercl stall tar ww ek ew ce ie esa cook chew ov oe adios once omres Goa wa saes ea ie rages SOME ea aa 198 
Stittear ye erUAtVe A OTICULLULE: cus cu wecancrey zy <p outs Oe opse> leu eas,s, © SOTO betwr bes iar 78 
Integrated Pest Management ..... .......... 28, 29, 36, 46, 47, 60, 90, 92, 97, 100, 101, 199 
ROAD CS 1 01 MMO OR OW oe kB 0k Dc or che 4 tare oe cu ae tn me vas oe funk sey 2s 2s A etary dbs A oa 46 
RISC CSG OCU See SIG tS cata te Sees sy A feran ty a op ee es eh os oe atu ee ey Le 715, 423,125,169 
PETG ALE MIESTS Bite we Uw hi hou cde op, co owns co we alma ect Pes I, ada Sechy Bias Dye Mat ee Seat em Bode 64 
LUPO 209 cr Ao A Vice a 'et ok ek die wih wes 13; 28,.32, 46-S0, 62, 71,73, 7988059 1.92: 


985, 109,.1105 129-131..137o139,,142° 
PSO SLi 271792182) 19 eB te8 


PM, 


irrigation’. .2e>..¢% . Le SE EE Mer COS 10,958, /120, 121) 158, 185; 1186, 196.4202 


JapanesesBeefle | S11-WQL SOP 801Gb VR. Cee OE 0 See Se, 116-118, 180, 182 
Kentuckys DIUeerass i. 2b. wei vo o> Bie ea tle ee a 116, 118-121 
labDOL ase s ee ee Oe eee ee 29, 37, 54, 56, 76, 81, 102, 107, 108, 112, 148, 164, 208 
lactating Ma «hl. bwe ce eee ee seen Kuve view Gee hoe ee 53355295 
lambs iG |. CUS cM. ate tld. oc we Be ee ee ee ae 81-83, 205, 208 
leachingJ€s ..\\.. OY. See Be 10, 58, 59; 84, 85, 129,130, 158, 159; 172, 189,°195;2201-203 
leaf.spoti. 4% 6.1. 6.4 sions om eid OW Chee On A, 220. 8a, 22%. LL ae eee 50 
leafhopper iss 4.4.5 w= ure e wha wy oe Re ee at ee 103, 104, 167, 174, 175 
TegislatiOn: -. 01.40% 1 sco sian wa dolee'gn sdvintan ne gee ke Jenne beige HOPURGLd et Ls hk aes eee 148 
legumes tO RR ee ease 10, 31, 45, 62-64, 68, 82, 85, 99, 100, 142, 144-146, 167, 
| 172, L/3a76 
legume?mulChicOVEr: 4.4.66 ess oeveev dew eu sabe ne ge ae oro = Mee 99 
lettucesWare > «GER ). SOPRO. ACRE NPE Be in ois iceee vases’ pe coups ie uk i ae ueas sews te gee 62, 63 
PITTIG: Sa iG yo gene wiak xe ap ns He toy Je ne ep eh cob Mic as ey eae ae 2074216 
livestock’ #:.Ma4, FD 80 MC, AEE SE 0 Poe... 10, 13, 23, 34, 44, 54-56, 58, 79-81, 87, 
113, 114, 138-141, 147, 156, 196 

HivingemVlch | 4 «..cie'g «ies tw og Bas betedte we Maskeas tthe ota hl: eet) ee 98, 206, 213 
Long: Islatid,: o-)¢.G8 .lF.,60..08 56, eB. Bh. 22-8 s ee. Se. 55S. 2 ae 98, 99 
Maine Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association ..................24. 62, 139, 143 
manialiat Petes OL Rel MEP Pk I See Se eee 35, 44, 85-87, 161, 162, 180-182 
manture®*) ssl Net amet, oth 27.) 33835)58,9722 75281; 114, 12441405158, 1595 678i: 
176, 183, 184, 194-197, 199-201, 209, 213 

mianure. disposal «».+5+:seranerans oy heed coheed ae alles) | OAL se eee ae, Les ee , 81 
TALI GO] s,s 448s nn edie nate go 'eahs helvibs Mloceeclle aches Gh goa gh deyacd Rtgs dt POPOL on ok aaa rtah a ck eee Digi? 
market’ vae,3:5 4 hes uae eee ee aa eee 25, 48, 81, 97, 110, 113-115, 129, 131, 141, 


147, 151, 164, 178, 183, 185, 186, 
188, 205, 208, 209, 212 


market tests: WV). RE RG EG. £0 08 AR A iecdcnsesnsiaptaeeeechercetttliy- tbe 1 oe. ee 97 
marketabilitye@!, .PCL ees. PPR, 4. 9-32 370 Se OA ee), 7a Ba es. : 44, 50, 96, 97, 186 
marketing! <5. UF vO) Us. he 1 COMe eI ie 3, 4, 7, 9, 13, 14, 26, 34, 46, 48, 70, 79, 80, 


87, 88, 96, 114-116, 120, 140, 141, 
145, 155, 159, 161, 183-186 


Maryland Organic Food and Farming Association ..............20 0002 sees 174, 175 
TASTILISWD. > 4.36 a GA, seers ee CRIA des dy ded odmas suhbey vanodiscuskonies gos cuaeueeue dO 94, 95, 162 
Mastitiss Controle. 5 Giryna+st tessa shoes capuandecnet coupe eopnmetovessatesy Sos ut) d SR eiee eee een 94 
mechanical: weed. control «+ .4,+:..:)+.+castorsusssseeerssps ees - MIR, Sree PA a ee ee 104 
medical’School was aS VC.) Fe ge. OS OOS. ols onc cea ns a Ren alee eee 96 
THICTODIOlOSY yoseiin.* i<s0ceteverat 9d aw Ap boa eay ae Ree aes tusued ug Chemenepcy out pencil e SES 94, 162 
TLL erent, Se he nhs oe sels hanglehox nee ons leared ask mbewetecs: 44, 55-57, 66, 83, 94, 95, 162, 211 
milkeprotetn: .>.\.+.<ajer.c+ cs at Ree cht tel ey yy ae Oe BORD, Do otal aie eee 56 
milkcualityignt eye) 1 MEO cmc Beek aecln alo che aecen cee eee uei enti mte 44, 94, 95, 162 
MINCrAl neces SAVESS APED, CORON ee pee eens hacker eenal eels oe ee eh eee re ee 171, 200 
TIC *: PSA, BONS ee AE oo, ee ee 38, 44, 46, 47, 49, 90, 91, 105-109, 133-136, 172 


220 


Puls eee ke NGH-oe cent ESE TE DE LOS IS OL. ceo ae 40, 62, 140, 143, 146 


“ho US Chee A CS A, 46, 95, 109, 110, 129, 160, 172, 185, 186, 196 
OER CE WMRIES 9 Se Ge Bore Oe Rn) EOE a 64, 113 
ee Oe PES Ge buna ouch ack ou io be be edo eae oes 63, 64 
PMc Hieers eer yee Mehdi tite te! AT Ph. ar ok 3, 63, 64, 68, 69, 98-100, 145, 146, 
1752, 186. 190 205,206, 209 4213 

SABRIC 0 GO.) UPN a a et een ce eT 44, 83 
Ss GMAIETNN(ES “St | SA a eS Oe, Sen el A OR et os 7 ee ce 75 
DPE SU PPT MUTE TL 585, ose he soo ceo ev tee we a dhs Oe SSR EL 146 
Ar UA Lot aR erg eV glee Lak aye gps vo docs vic oO es Ob ee OR, BA, OES... 84 
ueruralporganic Harmers ASSOClatiOn ..< 0 nu oe a oe ws we we ee 3403 [gel 516221779 
REEL OUC TMNT BAe ale We Mohd bss tes Be halk tase ak eS ds. Go da ses ne sel ad 115:260,-33,,55. 109-LI2eLS8S189..191 
PersaO OSV MGwe. «el © ee. VEO ene se LID 8... ces a b aul die set bean B12 
Pee ar iTiMNCOMe Woe oF el.west ev. VO! MbET) Let OS. 34... AS. AP. AY, 82.95, SS. 75 
BACUUNY OL GMMR. 0 & 1 use asses ce as usias eo noneudes av oo ae 4, 13, 16, 34, 44, 49, 51, 85-87, 153, 154, 183 
Bree ISU UC a eure aesoeh be cles is «Bose os co wr Su olelte Do Oe 62,163805495 
Beer NO LANG diyss ascidian ey esas me vsiek enon. 31, 33, 35, 43, 45, 62-64, 71, 113, 116, 123, 142, 
144-146, 157, 201, 202, 205, 209 

CEERES ETE ay a ne rae ro 4, 12, 16, 46, 49, 92, 129, 149, 189 
NUTOGeH es Ltr Lod. OF. 3, 9, 10, 31, 33, 43, 57-59, 62-65, 84, 120, 122-125, 144, 145, 167, 
169, 171-174, 176, 187, 188, 189, 190, 195, 199, 200, 208-210 

MA GT Se CYEE EX IT CMMI ate Bohra oWs aoe SENET veiek te ws css eee de Os ks ee Oe ed 10 
OSS os ie 62, 63, 65, 68, 69, 83, 99, 122, 123, 125, 145, 146, 169, 186 
Poet accme 207. ee yah oe CON Se Oe Be Oe Co eo a eae ah Ate 84, 100 
ee MI eS. 6 oie SS w Glin ema ww Clo Shen Phe Howe Yee EWES WR Ves 
CE NE 8 ge So a ee ee a a ee. oe ae 78 
BUS cn eA ee EE Be nt ee 11.63 61005 110811251 14 
Meters CatCMUMAL VET SI( Vem Oe Pe Site Bee WME Pe” alg, Gears ivaeeel? ohn a ek ak ei 133 
ORC HATA MM Ler tse, ances tens 4, 26, 32, 33, 46, 48, 70, 71, 97, 110, 111, 116, 167, 187-190, 210 
DClaArcistoe Mame Fo cee, OP. ee eae me ae he a hide lds: kee AY he 189 
OFgalicwweraataxe Mor weee : 1°. 3, 13, 23, 24, 30, 32, 34, 36-38, 41, 42, 44, 45, 52, 62-65, 71, 


85-88, 98, 99, 101-104, 113, 137, 138, 139, 143, 145, 147, 148, 
1552158, 162-165,81715 172,81745175), 177; 1964201.202;.205) 
206, 208, 2097.2115212 


EVES G a1 Al Lae Oe wa ares Ak Whee rk ice acess: biucuaps ie crack chisuee > Se 86, 206, 209, 212 
SEC ANIGRTALINICES gaWnt, ALA tA deh 6 LB. GA ON, 6,522 sss uss Syacsgnys,eysse,s,0,0 > ARS 23, 30, 41, 42 
PECAN EEO WETS (OM gee SH a BONN SA oosis acer te sct as, sb6s5e+1 025, +, 9, 0° RES BOL 64, 155 
Ay VS seeb edd Gok 2AM 03 GALS 2”) CRRA a Pee ee (1S 15 8a20) 
Rites COMALOLLLICLION gOMtr ears ce Chace ra Ma Biv ta Aig assay so on 44 Ae ve Hove B42 el aloo LOO Oar tt 
CHATTCOL Amen PG tm he. OO Oe SR eee oe eek ee teens 4, 13, 79, 151 
Outreachiveta et OGL Oe) hE PL! WO! A 4, 5, 9, 16, 35, 43, 46, 51, 62-64, 136, 146, 160 
eee CM Rn eM eo 2 ee a vik va dle tn ede ee A ea ck he 43, 64, 67, 68 
re a ee oh ke We Ge glk ae 3 eh sles Wt i Mala Set Sy ves “Pd eee 2) 
Romo ti Mas) eee ta eee eA eawos oy keys aa oy Mes <4 se ws *, 4 Bere 89 


PASTE Mh ae AP ce a hoe oe 10, 27, 29, 36, 37, 42-44, 53-57, 65-67, 81, 82, 94, 95, 167, 
172, 194-197, 206, 208, 211 


pasture mass Be} 
Pastures plate - 4 «<5 2°04 swe GAM 5 oe lelahd p eeyeepe iets a: Ens Ane ge Ee ee 66 
pathogens Ase «<0, 2 0G ot 28, 32, 38, 45, 76, 136, 148, 149, 151, 159, 168, 197, 198, 201 
POAS 16 ees AEM, AR eM: WGN Datel nc8ih Sin de 4 WONG 9 be oie ened eee ewe ae 99 
PenmState University. «-« 9.06 RQ Sie tec Rees eel ees kee ee 23,.273 33939) 40 sae 
PennsylvaniasStatesUniversity a eesce wae ee ee 3, 11,.27, 30, 32,.34,.35, 37,3894) eoor 


70, 73, 74, 76, 90, 105, 109, 147, 
155, 159, 16]}{OR eae 


perénnial-rye\ grass. <6. www 4 sm Re Eels ele, SORES, SORTA, fa 81-83, 117, 119 
perennial¥ weeds 75 Vs OR.eh 6. Cea ee ox eis ch Lute ure yee each n 11, 64, 69,ld baat 
Pesticides MEAN... «5.464 8, 10, 11, 25, 26, 48-50, 69-71, 92, 102, 106-108, 114, 116, 

151, 154, 159, 171,178, 181, 185, 286,19 lalov eee 
PHETOMONE 4} S7E GA See ote MOA ed a hela eee RU Bess ew Weer 77, 103,. 13 0h47 2a be 
PHOSPHOrUs'. vas we w 4A he en Sa ee ee eae se el Ree ae 331 Td Ae 
photosynthesis *! «4\. POsa0, PER LR SE gw ie secede vz ke ae eas esl e g ee 101 
Physiologically eA Eh Perens ik Pa see ae as lo Aud on ee le We ae ee ee IS7Z202 
PHYLOPHTHOTAFOOUTOES AE, NE MP xm et itis tide oeipeien ch bakes we Vales Jape ay Le ee i7t 
planttbreeding 4 Wares eo Ro Pai ne eA Ae A. @ 12,46; 121-125, 12 ees ee 
plantygeneticis€ «S84. o/ Sh S44 eel Lek BAP O CL Get oo). eee, 1 73 
plantegrowthe s+. 44 a5.6 555 08 a nes brnhe pt eeenee lcs 6 Sule by Mey. eee? 55, 148, 159, 181, 201 
plant¢nutrients**. a4-.%51..0o4 AM 08.0 ie 08 ee GA. Ge eg Lee 15259196 
plantspathology? «+. -.i...405.466 23, 24,30, 32, 46, 47,.70, 72,.76, 88, 90, 9lsol Qi 1O93 


115,.129, 130}(Re 
179, A90 G2 


Dlant*physiolOgist OO wh bcos. «4m. elite del weske meldevns Uo aed. ts eons’ Ss Moe heme gc bees 68, 193 
DOLICY #2 ©. #24, & Gas Bh lc hese sae inom ecmn eee aie ack s AEM E wae: Pcs ee 17-19, 79, 148, 164 
Pomology te fs 22 5hok Ak? MIS AS EN MIN ee Om 2S AF OS OD, . a uis cco Berta ee 46, 90 
DOtAtOMMNe Rs. rs se H, 0s er veer es 9, 10, 27, 28, 33, 35, 44, 45, 89, 113-115, 157-159, 167, 
168, 175, 191-194, 201, 202, 205, 208, 209 

potato leafhopper 5%! ..054. Si 82 CORSE Oe Ae BRE La 18, 320 eee 175 
POWwaerys MUdEW AAs ch) ONL gael ho cA ee, ee Me, OS, $98, 18, Fe 46, 104 
Dredacious: mitesPya, AR Pati AAMEW ok oe ae ads. oe oe 90 
DIOCESSOTPS. fF 52.4, GK, 4-51 che acme cue oes We Forms aa ee Rc oa ee eowce de deine ak eae 102, 190 
PIOGUCTION COStS. 2+. 114.4%. res-maeepeeenc meee ee es 30, 37, 81, 101-103, 110, 154, 186, 195, 197, 208 
DIOCUCTION SY StCTT MBM IE. Fa-c61+. cs cte- nant pseees 12, 27-29, 36, 42, 43, 46, 49, 84, 134, 156, 157, 
168, 170,.194, 195, 1995205; 209,212 

DEOTIC Re ARP ha ck YE, SOR des cumy santa can cp eoney eet owe eee deas 60, 70, 81, 178, 184, 186 
DEO DALIT." aiken. os of Aarons 27, 29,.36, 42, 43,.50;°51,,533 54)(56, 66; 71js/44(813oue 
92, 103, 104, 114, 132, 136, 156, 157, 208, 209, 212 

DEOCCLEL MPR oF cats utente aes veel Shs an ele end ae bem ea 56, 57,..66).95jo1 295200 
Put pins + orakat 5.27.0) st pe Seesaw ne ed OU Ca eed ea ne ene eae 3, 205,209,210 
raspberries i). 6 nie viene) oa arwe aewhaee: ae dee eae cy Ae Mey Ss tenes ss ee 90,213 


red clover 1229)123,-169 


. 
ee! REPS PA NO ROP 6. 0 Fe: Kei Mere, He: Hey Ye Aare a tae) fe] fel Se te a he Mb Pplhis Me emis) tee Tells terme ms. 60ers 


Pemmeccstinages kW AR... aus een ae 43, 44, 64, 67, 69, 98-100, 145, 146, 178, 185 
“es Los Oa Sh ne nnMnn mer means, 8 ee me 68 
MMC LOD PUSAN bo s5 ede Wi a vee x nd aay Mong ay vas dg AoE dts Se ee, thor: 68 
mesource Conservation & Development & Ai. 4.00, BB. Oe, ee ate ee | ane oed: 65 
i MP SS 8s. 6g oid aside ¢ Wm kw ie HA oe ee 3, 8, 9, 50, 69, 71, 95, 103, 105, 110, 134, 174 
BIeeMISSCSSIICN! 6 ws KA nen vs ae ew Sake where ately so a oe ee ee een ae 103 
Fomamles NSUtUtCad Ansan «km a oo x 13,.16,.22, 36,41, 49, 58559mdd00e143291/6,,199 
iiminlcesescaren Center as oie eee oes ule. ee 28, 29, 46, 53, 67, 69-74, 76 
PM AMOUGISOTATING waist & x 5k a ys UO ee Ge es AeA 13, 54, 65, 66, 79, 80, 94, 205, 208 
Pemarinantaese Wh ah AOL ROE! OR Bat Co: PS. 25, 44, 56 BR Pa ee ae: 43, 80 
PUDOTIOSS, tt nak aw as slike abated ek hele La oe ea, See ee ee ee. 115 
PeETAaSOCIOIO DY. 5. ks due ndcale MGA oo teak Le Os ole bee 7 28924 07 04735155 
ISIESCTS MPRA UENO ak 8 oi knw aw les 9. 23.28.29, 34, 36,3947 nds 857 90,, 96297, 
130.1345 155:21 7089S 1738 17 4g 64199 

FRUOCTS’ CEVETSILTY was oth ug cee: tee Otc et se ew hes 9, 23, 34, 36, 39, 88, 96, 130, 
1345, 1559 041 73.9176, 199 

MVCMEE. Wess wohl tat ts oe 10, 58, 59, 63-65, 68, 69, 81-85, 117, 119, 144-146, 186, 205, 208 
BNE LASS A od, Kyle no eee mw MG Ange em oe, & a ele RL Gens alte ie ee 81-83, 117, 119 
BAILED eet ah. Weeks hc Aon Sori SR Mey acted Waele Keio ss 66, 110, 158, 172, 202 
Oe e622 RE RR ee eek oh eee ee OEE 229236122; 128,177 
SEE ONY. «9 ks Re ewe RE bh kee ake See 53 Oso le ozo? 2065211 
Bee DALAPINGT 4.c. 7. t.. &%. M6 wie me Rie gop ae we ine oh ete Ws ew re Seas 
Sila TERS Sas aoe. tle Oy Aaa ee 14, 23, 30, 41, 44, 90-92, 128 
SIAM OLO WELT Geek. ols weg hh gitscwiN © ase yb anise ve se oo sll ie ge RO pce ab ars ic? 91 
SAP UST Ot oe ae Macy Oar ey aoe OR 2 -RRaey oe % 25, 72, 84, 114, 178 
BIIAMADEADISH aS se abs. .\iewchnv glk ho: ive nine es 4b SE we ange es (ote ce ge road OO er Smoot D 
BO MATITAUONIS lp Ace, cua, heehee ta 0 1c oa) yp Agee’ Sina ey hh, SOs ee eA ERE ESTEE 2OPO,. 89 
BGTPCHEINISIT YO oie Fe ai ere a ROM homey ois sam ave pe wo ot pe en ee epee 83, 196 
soil conservation «../..25 AN AF. 8, 22-24, 26, 67, 73, 81, 98, 126, 127, 167, 169, 184-187 
Boieconservatlon-Service. Ses oleh. es. os ee es 8, 22, 23, 26, 81, 98, 169, 184-187 
BOP ETA VIFONMETILDE 20. same ve We ghee Ga yon: ass node sone gs lew Le sayee Be ome te NE ae ahi fs? 73 
BOMPETOSION. «4 we. Paes. BN.) arene... 58, 62, 81, 83, 98, 99, 113; 114, 158, 186, 201 
RIBLOUULLEC WN ahdO.N. @MEtd See con reed eet hig 2324 Gee oo Ul U3, Lily 122, 
140, 171, 179, 192, 196 

SUP ATIOUIS(UTE > b4. atald Oa shat GOEL ORR ume Peed 7 6 (a eee 44, 83-85, 99, 173 
RE TERTH EFA) cOee Ace Pe 4, AAD bs nosh en eho ele aed cS asl ep Ree ae 2 Ja oeL 14 
BUTT TESE> oes st cai oo tet ot ss cba¥ecutoranehenet oo aleyaael tut levee s+,o. SDE, Seeman taOen EEE a Bee 335090174 
BAT OBOTICT CISCASEN w(t Mee cn SAD ceeds ve ailsd Passing teed cao sncsg then tat Ee ee als Are £12 
SRLAMACEOUS CLOPS? + icr.cv'is ox 6¥ ous staSeos cay sate Uta ikon Cada a ee ee TT, A 44, 88 
BOHTAT I ZALIOLI. | ces oe i or cece ob de pe ov a ogh'bU belo ee'd> vad Gn-culss ob vatecng nee ee eS FADE cop 90 
EY DO ALIS A RA ox en ah sho vein of 4c aN ay 8 an onsch corer ol Aion eg Se Rene on eee 68, 178, 179, 205, 208 
RRA WI DELTICS © nse 0 sce ts sa ioe ce sdiah as Saddle ok Grea cle eee PSU Uae LAS. 213 
SILA WDEITY Ua oy Bl neh alee oi el ohms ei diiew od oe A we at oh coh Alle Ap ge TA oe ahd ne 90-93 


stripstillage ) csc ee a ad ey oe? See 99 


students. s,s" UPR RE lO ae ee rs Sa a eee gu ae $1, 90)-1 1S;51208 1572202 
Stud Ghits Meh 454 URL we eck Seg Ble wel ep ee tetera ee 141, 149 
Strid FOUR sy “x. 2.2 wis. s 4 aim 4G es, Hdd ten osm cee er od tines ect 78, 79 
Subclinical «ss 414% s%% 4% 0 thw v Bescon eels stays ali ee aneUeCR SAE 5 NG rete eee 83 
Sudank Mt 4.wSGh UE OLN, ONE Te Bon es oa od een as ge a ee 1342 
Sudan forass mvve tals ss 425 ae Win dnd eokes te Gs he ie eee is tp yi rl ee Abehl2 
Sunny) Valley4Foundationiitr.18.00 £0, kd... 22,209 Sd. 24, gee 78 
SUNY 39 SS OP MS BA oe 6 dis cs uen bb ow als J ee pecs @itao ey SR 40 
sustainable production systems.t4.. 4.4.9 + cuss 4 oso @ ous py bee 157,170 
SWEELECOLIT VR MUMROS. 6s, 55 4 ohn a wn ewe 9, 13, 62-64, 99, 138, 145, 173, 174, 186, 205, 209 
Tallefeseti cP i x Gives 4 ee in Rt ee eee ae ee tier Gs et ee 10, 116-121 
tarnished? plant?bugs. if ..4.5.20.4h di, oe Ae, Se. 22. Uo ee 90, 93 
tax SaVE aP4 (OC. Re ih REL OG ut, RS ee ee i Be Ie ee 70 
téachershirs eG & AL LOGE ACE EE os God eed a ce 0 Be as ee 80 
HAseaORS, OL WeS han wd a we 32, 38, 43, 44, 63, 64, 67, 69, 72, 75, 87, 98-100, 122, 
144-148, 154, 169, 178, 179, 185, 196 

tomato ee PE EPR RAL ai ki Sa Le, RO. 80 .60-£8: Be 28 89, 109, 111,°112, 151, 206—3 
TOUT NR: POPE NOs ar © An ie es bees ee aa eee ee ree 60, 66, 126, 127 
TATISILIOTISAIIE £8, AOR 4 a Wiles. wre bo ers elaine a Bi eae eee 13, 19, 78, 79, 140, 179 
TWITCH MCC OS Oe x. nowt ooo weweys slain coe yo ee BE ee eee alas cee eee 84, 144, 146 
TV LOT ROT HAO. OE hers ym Rik ie we pe Wi eke ie yn a ok car aonte ele igae 43, 80-83 
Universitytoe California s ern 4.4.0 w Ww Mow wo Aun waco nse deten bid ge Boao eagle 4) 
UniversityoeConnecticuts . s «. cnn Ste ee cdl che eles 12,/62, 63;°65) 81/83 99851014897, 
University of Mainleen ea .9. «6s = ieee eae 23, 30, 31, 33,.35, 40, 41/67 69980 2830, 
93, 113, 115, 139, 140, 142, 144, 157, 201, 202 

Winiwersitwoliviaryland: «5 a4 ws yew tine ees eral a a 10, 23, 27, 33, 34, 57-59, 83, 85, 
133, 137, 1568, 173341744191 

University of Massachusetts .............. 25, 28-31,.34, 36,.46,, 53,5457 562563008 


10.872, 86,90, 93), 115, 11.7;,1284129 ass? 

137, 142, 144, 155, 170, 177, 182, 199 

UWNIVETSItVsO lp CLIN OGte sce. oy, whe oe 2, 22,25, 29,31, 32, 34, 36,137—9395140,,46.89o8 
55-57, 70, 72, 78, 94, 96, 137, 143, 149, 152, 

156, 162, 163, 174, 176, 197-199 

TISDASS) ¢ ott PR Go ais 8, 19, 22, 23, 26-28, 30, 32, 33, 35, 40, 42, 60, 64, 67-69, 73, 74, 
81, 84, 88, 93, 98, 116, 122, 128, 133, 137, 150, 157, 169, 

180,184, 190, 198, 201, 202 


USDA/Agricultural Research Service: y0:..:.0s0snstew-n eyed et ae 84, 88 
TIS DIASARS “faeces: Sngtiny tates ces nvencaetek acne pa eee eae 22,.40, 42,,68, 69, 74.9345 122..153 150 
UWSDAISGS +. conyers} cietstats stancnst nse ceeden lr dle Bede AR on lg Pes een een aaa 122, 5128 
USDA/Soil: Conservation ‘Service. <.1,<5. eels ty ea tg ee ie ee 81, 98 
TISSReF 340%) 8G voc orale cepenetnenuh phan be cune stay aiies Oo atte eee) enn oe 7, es 64 
vattetal trials. eh Ska: simak se s+ steaby seen usu eb ce 0) aye seen Fae ae cc ee 128 
VEepetabless- oi .h.t6t eat ator A vat ahah we oe bs eb clots ca a Pea CC ee 185 


EL Ike (ETT G5 aa! ay ca AE le Ee oo Rt ae a a me ce 22523 
em MULES Sanh eS Oeeey) ae ne EGY: ak Bete 89, 150, 151, 192, 198 
re CV CariXt UT Comey aan, WER S.7 A oe inte, ae Md: | ee A me a |, 84, 85 
Bee erranvel Medicine 3 waeien tc os 2 Ome eee Me Rg A BY oy oR de 200 
ARCO MME dees Vi aes WANT Rae ae, 13, 38, 43, 54, 56, 64, 77-80, 105, 109, 110, 112, 134, 136 
CCO)S PRM ee Fiala eee Ow IR eee oe tM Fe 4, 12, 13, 56, 78-80 
NEKO oie SC a a MO 2 I~ SS A Re 30, 37, 77, 101-104 
AVOTISIAY 5 GRRE A Se CC PRN coe ot A gt OL ae ee Or coll Nn 54, 56, 95 
AGEL «3g len CA ee a Ro le ee a a a i oe a a 191 
By ALATICaS CLES y Wospa en. ey se, awe ee OMe ii: cde Wee aes An hte okt RUN 78 
Oe NA See pol Ieal 7a ise 5.) 267 338 354480020613, 5). 95,2100, 1018103, 


113, 116, 117, 120, 121, 126, 129-131, 145, 148, 149, 157-160, 167, 
171, 172, 174, 175, 177, 179, 181-184, 195,-196, 201, 202, 206, 211-213 


PV ALCIMDIALLAG CINCH Us cutis On aMrde Sue aien Gs , Mce Roe. grat g Ge. os, onthe erage Ms oe ees 73 
DALE IMCIUALIC Vaicras 2 ve Shar. prea MRAM MRR stro, aus 1$9257'665°129-1317 158-1605171 6077; 
179 21.83 519622015202..206, 212 

UGE pail, SORE eae peas 3, 43, 49, 52, 63, 64, 66-69, 73, 75, 92, 98-100, 103, 104, 128, 
129, 140, 142, 144-146, 148, 149, 153, 154, 171, 205-211, 213 

VECUECOUCOLere: uv cq ewe ceeenme eats 43, 52, 63, 66-69, 75, 92, 98, 104, 128, 140, 
145, 148, 153, 154, 171, 205, 209 

BVCeCRCCOLOGTS ae eae GME. Oe SP MMMNM ey he aur a og MBs, aC ete ole Woe cotta te Heche 67 
Sy eCmiiaila CITE ae veer one Premera RE RENT Ge a ee BGs ot a 104, 145, 149 
SUC COESCIGUCC Marty Ar Gn ye, Saeie mtate ne hh cl eG) heh Ce Oe cake blige 68, 73, 98 
BV estelstancie biorecion:b10)CClam. Bemtren Sune... ee ee fe ea), sete. ers 176 
Dyieptey Ici’ UNI Versitve. 1.5, ae eas ok a 2082 129 32 eS geo ae LOY, 
111, 113, 187-189 

WENGE, eet MG tc ith, 8 LAs. Se or a er ae DIGS 399 e110 e112 91785179 
SMIOSCSLALTY ata ee wr ots atin cra 14, 17, 43, 44, 59, 61, 66, 101, 132, 138, 140, 146, 189 
WARLCIREUVCIECTO Deeg eine Mel st Gwe OP AM Ce Ee Nae, ce OM ara s Wiehs 5 ete Mera 173 
SEINE? LSD sh Ue. BEN de SO Ae eg Peel Ae Oe An ot ee ane, a ee 145 


225 


de us 
“A a iz ‘ ~~ a é we Od Gb idi Sew bt de o a? lies nF o* theme he44 ote? oa 
PL ery Ss & c t 
AM Ag | cry OG ch ahs boat at 


Aj : = omy, : 


ow “114% - .* &—* ‘ 7 P : > a = i“ ‘ut ® ~, : 
j ‘*. . * “-s . ree ie} one Vila rt 
ol ry ot ii v3 x g 
7) - me, ¢ . ‘+e ‘owe “. & & ay ty b> eteege we Siw oe oe 1 a 
1 ‘9 if . * * * . ‘+e « ee J =~ +6 6) ae! +) o@ oe et e- 6 Se @ oO 
igs ; ae eae. 
Vy 1 “es, ’ ty 


yp ot * oF +) 64 of FT 4” op MI aDdO od Bo? oP OP 


ob oath: G4 i OL, OT 20% 08-07 Be 2 be £8 ae 2 ee eee 
St 4 


aT vee side ke & - 09 ew ebe4 alge ge eOae a 


th sf a pee ee ia} ‘is, toe > hen ee gt se ararh ot ow ogee ptaty ee . 

i | | Nees 
7 St a . é ‘ 4,6 , oy y Ae teak Te Si SR oe wh +8 gk ole 28 08S ava iGg 9h ae . 
5" uhle «wag oe Svelems ..). pied bean ofa later Re: 


Rie WU pAOl Be 62 EN BO 20 Oh.20 C8. | oi , We ne be ‘TR. 
WON Greinke) SRL Bh! Ri SPL Sl ASt i OSL. SH ON. SEs ite 

CLS i Ra OOL ROS JOS PCL CQL HSLL9l OTL CF) ATE APY OVE eT. eee 
NboWS4 O8!-RC} aFEL-RO1 de PO-8t 4), 7 coe aca ahcale 
C15) .008 0S 10S. oe By QT i 42 ; 63, o4, a7, GY, T2774, 
BCT {bOL £0k OOI-Re £0 o ai EY 28-00 OB 8D CF Sh PR 6 ae 
CES DEE COS FL S22 €eh Ob] Bb Bato (Sh) Op Gere 109, bhi th 
UL GST POT BO $2 29 Cota fe SP Fe a es iin Se 
L204 Glew s VL. DQi Bet Bb] Bi os ioe. p us 13: TRS 
a 


oe kee sy ol (oaniorr ua: Pp eee Sek oh a mbes — ek ‘o> . > 
OT have gf Of Goansatjen ieee aealihenie o# ores bint sib 
Nb whedon &e meee SE SC LUTS Of . a aed, 30,38, BO, Le 

CF] .T RI ran It! 113, 715, 13 ae, . 14a 144, rt 
A SSeS a ae | Be a 
OBL Ohl: Oh AES SET AOL 00,10: 06 Hb EP TEA 5 A 
CUniversity of Marsachusatieys ee) sy esuusew see a ote 
+ it ; Faisal Pell eae ; “gh Pe. BS iE pene 


; . ieee 5a Fin Loa WW, 
hai versity of Vermanit-) 0 ys sip sym dap dy ae aie BS, 22, 34, 36; 17, 29, 
255.87, 0, 73 °f, 54, 94, hy 43), 0 

| 186, 162, 163, i743 S, 

UNDA casa ea 22. DE 26 28. 39,3233, 94, 80, 42, 04, Ore 
- 81, 4, 4B, 95. of, (16, 122, 128. 133,137, ie 

180, 1846, 1S 
ISDA’ Aericuinure) Resmarch Seruple.. «ax chs ao fe 
USDASARS «au : woe Ve ep chow > ah 40, 42, 68, 36, 74, @ 123 


LEDS Qe. » «oes Je Pasha ew eee a ae 
ira tet © “ons avis Serves 5 paved <ijtndrabh paral paki she ee 
Tf=¢i2 : : le lee pola a bias nia ob'Dh Pe 
octets! tale es ed os 


gma a 


i 


: ; _ 
ani, Od O oan % fee, 


a i 8 


La aves sole 


poem LIBRARY 


102 


16 


