Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


Baseiveflteyi  C/n^ 


SF<*of 
JtC _ 


Jl— */ 


.  #  .  m  l'^o \r'^  ed  States 

r  oreign  AniinaJtcEW^0  D<,partmen‘ofAgriculture 


Emergency 

Programs 


Animal  And  Plant 


.  ,  n  Mealth  Inspection  Service 

Disease  Report  ^ 


os- 


r.uRRQOflXJs  Srm«h 


Number  20-1 


Spring  1992 


This  Issue 


Emergency  Programs  Activities 

Foreign  Animal  Disease  Update 

A  Serologic  Occurrence  of  Viral  Turkey  Rhinotracheitis 

Bovine  Spongiform  Encephalopathy,  An  Update 

New  Methods  for  Diagnosis  of  Malignant  Catarrhal  Fever 

Foot-and-Mouth  Disease  in  Latin  America 

Focus  on  Rinderpest,  An  Update 

Clarification 

Subject  Index 

Emergency  Programs  Field  Investigations.  During  the  first  quarter  of  fiscal  year  (FY)  1992  (October  1- 
Activities  December  31 ,  1 991 ),  veterinarians  from  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA), 

Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service  (APHIS),  Veterinary  Services  (VS),  and 
State  departments  of  agriculture  conducted  27  investigations  of  suspicious  foreign 
animal  diseases  in  the  United  States  and  Puerto  Rico  to  eliminate  the  possibility  that 
an  exotic  disease  may  have  been  introduced.  These  investigations  included  1 1  for 
vesicular  conditions,  2  for  swine  septicemic  conditions,  1  for  mucosal  conditions,  6  for 
exotic  Newcastle  disease  in  pet  birds  and  poultry,  3  for  encephalitic  conditions,  and  4 
for  undesignated  conditions. 

There  were  5  investigations  in  8  States  in  the  Northern  Region,  13  investigations  in  8 
States  in  the  Southeastern  Region,  4  investigations  in  3  States  in  the  Central  Region, 
and  5  investigations  in  4  States  in  the  Western  Region.  No  foreign  animal  diseases  or 
pests  were  found. 

Health  Concerns  for  Captive-Raised  Waterfowl.  On  December  1 1 ,  1991 ,  the 
APHIS,  VS,  Emergency  Programs  staff  participated  in  a  tri-State  agency  meeting  to 
discuss  health  concerns  about  captive-raised  wild  waterfowl.  Topics  included  the 
potential  effect  of  diseases  in  captive-raised  birds  on  native  waterfowl  populations, 
regional  emergency  preparedness  in  the  event  of  a  disease  outbreak,  and  the  feasibil¬ 
ity  of  a  health  certification  program  for  captive-raised  waterfowl.  State  agriculture  and 
wildlife  agencies  from  Delaware,  Maryland,  and  Virginia;  Federal  entities  such  as  the 
U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior  and  USDA;  and  the  Southeastern  Cooperative  Wildlife 
Disease  Study  were  represented,  along  with  the  poultry  industry. 

Emergency  Preparedness.  During  February  4-6,  1992,  a  workshop  was  held  in 
Hyattsville,  MD,  to  review  and  revise  the  Regional  Emergency  Animal  Disease  Eradi¬ 
cation  Organization  (READEO)  structure.  This  review  included  evaluating  (1)  the 
functional  responsibilities  of  each  position  in  the  READEO  and  (2)  the  information¬ 
generating  capability  of  the  Recorded  Emergency  Animal  Disease  Information 
(READI)  System.  The  directors  and  the  administrative  staff,  field  operations  staff,  and 


-  X 

<£ 

\ 

t?  i 

1  ; 

d 

t~-. 


technical  support  officers  of  all  four  READEO’s  participated.  These  directors  and 
officers  will  build  on  the  decisions  reached  at  the  workshop  to  develop  common 
procedures  for  operations  applicable  to  all  four  READEO’s.  Later,  the  READEO 
manual  will  be  rewritten. 

Training  Activities  for  the  Third  and  Fourth  Quarters  of  FY  1992.  Training 
courses  designed  to  enhance  foreign  animal  disease  detection  and  emergency 
response  have  been  planned  and  schedules  have  been  distributed  within  APHIS  and 
to  State  cooperators.  Training  planned  for  the  third  quarter  includes 

Foreign  Animal  Disease  Seminar,  April  7-9,  1992,  Southeastern  Region 

READEO  Workshop:  April  14-16,  1992,  Northern  Region;  April  28-30,  Western 
Region;  June  8-12,  Southeastern  Region 

Foreign  Animal  Disease  Awareness  for  Animal  Health  Technicians:  April  21-23, 
Northern  Region;  June  2-4,  Central  Region 

Foreign  Animal  Disease  Diagnostician’s  Course,  May  4-15,  at  the  National  Veterinary 
Services  Laboratories  (Ames,  IA)  and  the  Plum  Island  Animal  Disease  Diagnostic 
Laboratory  (Plum  Island,  NY) 

Training  planned  for  the  fourth  quarter  of  1 992  includes 

Foreign  Animal  Disease  Threats  and  Implications,  July  7-10,  in  College  Park,  MD 

Wildlife  Diseases  Seminar  for  Foreign  Animal  Disease  Diagnosticians,  August  18-21, 
Athens,  GA 

(Dr.  M.  A.  Mixson,  Emergency  Programs,  VS,  APHIS,  USDA,  Hyattsville,  MD  20782, 
301-436-8073) 


2 


Foreign  Animal 
Disease  Update 


This  update  consolidates  information  from  Office  International  des  Epizooties  (OIE) 
bulletins  into  tables  covering  August  and  September  1 991 .  Countries  reporting 
disease  outbreaks  are  listed  below  the  appropriate  disease  heading  (followed  by  the 
month/year  of  the  report  and  total  number  of  outbreaks  reported  for  that  time  period). 
The  notation  “+”  indicates  that  the  presence  of  disease  was  reported  without  informa¬ 
tion  on  total  number  of  outbreaks.  Outbreak  number  followed  by  “+”  indicates  number 
of  outbreaks  as  well  as  disease  presence. 


Foot-and-Mouth  Disease 

Virus  Untyped 

Chad  (7/91)  + 

Argentina  (58.6/91 )  40 

Pakistan  (7&8/91)2+ 

Myanmar  (7/91)  2 

Paraguay  (88.9/91)  11 

Bhutan  (8/91)  + 

Hong  Kong  (6-8/91)  8 

Virus  0 

Morocco  (9/91)  2 

Georgia  (98.8/91 )  1 1 

Argentina  (58.6/91)  6 

Colombia  (68.7/91)  4 

Oman  (58.6/91)  109 

Pakistan  (88.9/91)  + 

Turkey  (7/91)  100 

Paraguay  (88.9/91)  10 

Nepal  (2,6,8,8.9/91 )  + 
Kyrgyzstan  (9/91 )  2 

Virus  A 

Argentina  (58.6/91)  13 

Colombia  (6-8/91)  19 

Pakistan  (78.8/91)  + 

Turkey  (7/91)  23 

Kenya  (5/91)  2 

Ecuador  (1-7/91)  2 

Turkey  (8/91 )  1 1 

Virus  C 

Bhutan  (8/91)  + 

Argentina  (5/91 )  1 

Virus  SAT 2 

Mali  (6-9/91)  13 

Kenya  (8/91)  1 

Virus  SAT 3 

Zimbabwe  (7/91)  1 

Virus  Asia  1 

Pakistan  (78.8/91)  + 

VesicularStomatitis 

Virus  Unknown 

Panama  (78.8/91 )  3 

Mexico  (7/91 )  1 

Virus  Indiana 

Colombia  (6-7/91)  28 

Virus  New  Jersey 

Panama  (7/91)  1 

Colombia  (6-8/91)  63 

Costa  Rica  (68.7/91)  4 

El  Salvador  (5-7/91)  12 

Guatemala  (6/91)  1 

Honduras  (7/91)4 

Nicaragua  (7/91)  2 

Ecuador  (3/91)  1 

Swine  Vesicular  Disease 

Italy  (4/91)2 

Rinderpest 

'Mongolia  (8/91)  3 

Ethiopia  (9/91)  2 

Peste  des  Petits 

Ruminants 

Senegal  (68.7/91 )  2 

Oman  (58.6/91)  23 

Guinea  (78.8/91 )  + 

Contagious  Bovine 
Pleuropneumonia 

Italy  (88.9/91 )  10 

Portugal  (5-7/91)  381 

Guinea  (7-9/91)  + 

Mali  (78.8/91 )  4 

Kenya  (58.8/91)  14 

Lumpy  Skin  Disease 

Senegal  (68.7/91)  2 

Botswana  (7/91 )  + 

Zimbabwe  (78.8/91 )  1 8 

Kenya  (7/91)  2 

South  Africa  (8/91)  + 

Rift  Valley  Fever 

Mozambique  (8/91)  + 

Bluetongue 

United  States  (88.9/91 )  + 
Malaysia  (1-6/91)  + 

Israel  (9/91)  1 

Sheep  and  Goat  Pox 

Senegal  (68.7/91)5 

Oman  (58.6/91)  12 

Turkey  (78.8/91 )  72 

African  Horse  Sickness 

Morocco  (88.9/91)  33 

Mozambique  (8/91)  + 

Senegal  (68.7/91)  2+ 

Zimbabwe  (7/91)  2 
South  Africa  (8/91)  + 


*  This  is  the  first  sign  of  rinderpest  in  Mongolia  since  1935. 


3 


African  Swine  Fever 

Hog  Cholera 

Newcastle  Disease 

Mozambique  (8&9/91 )  1  + 

Czechoslovakia  (7&8/91 )  4 

Mozambique  (8/91)  + 

Italy  (8&9/91)  12 

Russia  (9/91)  9 

Portugal  (8/91)5 

Senegal  (7/91)  1 

Mexico  (7&8/91 )  9 

Egypt  (7&8/91 )  6 

Portugal  (7&8/91)  11 

Argentina  (5&6/91)  + 

Senegal  (7/91)  + 

Spain  (8&9/91)  35 

Colombia  (6&8/91)  6 

Mexico  (7&8/91)  8 

Malaysia  (1-6/91)  + 

Colombia  (6/91)  + 

Taiwan  (7&8/91 )  17 

Albania  (6/91)  1 

Yugoslavia  (6/91)9 

Yugoslavia  (7/91)  3 

Paraguay  (8&9/91)3 

Turkey  (7&8/91)  4 

Italy  (9/91)  1 

Guinea  (7&8/91 )  + 

U.S.S.R.(Savropol)  (8/91)1 

South  Africa  (8/91)  2 

Ecuador  (8/91)  1 

Ecuador  (1-8/91 )  + 

Korea(s)  (8/91)  2 

Hong  Kong  (6/91)  5 

Hong  Kong  (6/91)  2 

Austria  (8/91)  2 

Japan  (5/91)  4 

Velogenic  Viscerotropic 

Bovine  Spongiform 

Scrapie 

Newcastle  Disease 

Encephalopathy 

Czechoslovakia  (7&8/91 )  5 

Mexico  (7/91)  1 

South  Korea  (7&8/91 )  8 

Switzerland  (8/91)2 

Norway  (5/91)  1 

Malaysia  (Penin)  (1-6/91)  + 
Myanmar  (7/91)  1 
Kenya  (4,5,7, &8/91)  1 1 


Porcine  Reproductive 
and  Respiratory  Syndrome 

Belgium  (3-6/91)  75 


( 

A  Serologic 
Occurrence  of  Viral 
Turkey  Rhinotracheitis^ 


The  affected  turkey  farm  is  located  in  southeast  Anson  County,  near  Morven,  NC. 

The  farm  is  a  commercial  turkey  egg-production  facility  with  four  turkey  barns  plus  an 
office  building.  Each  barn  contains  about  3,500  breeder  turkey  hens.  The  barns  are 
maintained  as  individual  units  and  are  aligned  adjacent  to  each  other  with  the  door¬ 
ways  facing  in  an  east-west  direction.  The  office  and  the  gate  entrances  are  on  the 
west  side  facing  a  county  road.  The  turkey  hens  were  artificially  inseminated  once  a 
week  by  the  farm  crew.  Feed  delivery  was  also  made  once  a  week.  The  biosecurity 
on  the  farm  is  excellent.  Only  the  two  center  houses  tested  positive  on  serology,  and 
no  virus  could  be  isolated.  There  were  no  clinical  signs  typical  of  VTRT  in  either  of  the 
houses;  the  only  symptom  was  the  drop  in  egg  production.  Furthermore,  only  a  low 
percentage  (less  than  13  percent)  of  the  flock  had  positive  titers;  this  does  not  fit  the 
clinical  pattern  as  seen  in  other  countries  with  VTRT.  Surveillance  of  other  poultry 
flocks  in  the  area  and  progeny  testing  showed  no  evidence  of  spread  to  other  flocks  or 
any  egg-associated  transmission.  There  has  been  no  clinical  evidence  of  VTRT  in  the 
Carolinas. 

(Dr.  Adam  Grow,  Emergency  Programs,  VS,  APHIS,  USDA,  Hyattsville,  MD  20782, 
301-436-8073) 


(Dr.  Peter  Fernandez,  International  Services,  APHIS,  USDA,  Hyattsville,  MD  20782, 
301-436-8892) 


A  North  Carolina  turkey  hen  farm  experienced  a  sharp  drop  in  egg  production  in  the 
fall  of  1991.  (Over  a  period  of  1  week,  the  percentage  of  hens  laying  eggs  decreased 
from  65  to  20.)  Diagnostic  testing  done  in  October  1991  revealed  positive  serology  for 
viral  turkey  rhinotracheitis  (VTRT).  This  was  the  first  time  VTRT  antibodies  have  been 
found  in  the  United  States.  Attempts  to  isolate  a  virus  were  unsuccessful. 


4 


0>~ 

Bovine  Spongiform  Bovine  spongiform  encephalopathy  (BSE)  is  a  fatal  degenerative  disease  affecting  the 

Encephalopathy  central  nervous  system  of  cattle.  The  condition  was  first  officially  diagnosed  in  Great 

Update^  Britain  in  1986,  and,  at  press  time,  had  not  been  reported  in  the  United  States.  As  of 

February  7,  1992,  the  British  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Fisheries  and  Foods  reported 
47,616  head  of  cattle  in  16,148  herds  confirmed  to  have  BSE  in  the  United  Kingdom. 
Additional  cases  were  then  occurring  at  the  rate  of  approximately  1 ,000  per  week(1 ). 
There  were  6,055  brain  samples  pending  diagnosis  at  that  time.  The  disease  has  also 
been  confirmed  in  Ireland,  Oman  (2  imports),  the  Falkland  Islands  (1  import),  Switzer¬ 
land  (10  domestic  cases),  and  France  (5  domestic  cases). 

BSE  belongs  to  a  group  of  related  diseases  known  as  the  transmissible  spongiform 
encephalopathies.  This  family  includes  scrapie  (which  affects  sheep  and  goats), 
transmissible  mink  encephalopathy,  and  chronic  wasting  disease  of  mule  deer  and  elk. 
Flumans  may  be  affected  by  three  like  diseases:  kuru,  Creutzfeldt-Jakob  disease,  and 
Gerstmann-Straussler  syndrome.  These  diseases  are  caused  by  an  as-yet 
uncharacterized  agent  that  produces  spongiform  changes  in  the  brain.  These 
encephalopathies  are  typified  by  a  long  incubation  period,  insidious  development  of 
clinical  signs  (which  include  motor  abnormalities  and  behavioral  changes),  and  the 
lack  of  any  detectable  host  immune  or  inflammatory  response. 

The  causative  agent  is  extremely  resistant  to  heat  and  most  other  sterilization  pro¬ 
cesses.  The  nature  of  the  etiologic  agent  has  been  described  as  (1)  an  unconven¬ 
tional  virus,  (2)  a  prion  (defined  as  “a  proteinaceous  infectious  particle  that  resists 
inactivation  and  which  modifies  nucleic  acids  and  contains  an  abnormal  isoform  of  a 
cellular  protein”),  and  (3)  a  virino  (an  agent  genome,  most  likely  a  nucleic  acid,  pro¬ 
tected  by  a  host  protein). 

Great  Britain’s  Situation 

BSE  was  first  diagnosed  by  the  British  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Fisheries  and  Foods’ 
Central  Veterinary  Laboratory  at  Weybridge,  England,  in  November  1986.  However,  it 
is  thought  that  the  disease  may  have  first  surfaced  as  early  as  April  1 985.  The 
majority  of  cases  in  Great  Britain  have  been  in  Friesian  dairy  cattle  between  3  and  5 
years  of  age.  The  ages  of  afflicted  cows  range  from  22  months  to  17  years.  The 
confirmed  total  herd  incidence  in  the  United  Kingdom  is  16.9  percent.  The  dairy  herd 
incidence  is  30.84  percent,  and  beef  herd  incidence  is  4.04  percent  (February  7,  1992, 
figures). 

Epidemiologic  data  indicate  that  BSE  in  Great  Britain  was  caused  by  feeding  cattle 
meat  and  bone  meal  produced  from  the  rendered  carcasses  of  scrapie-infected  sheep. 
The  practice  of  using  meat  and  bone  meal  as  a  protein  source  in  cattle  rations  has 
been  common  for  several  decades  in  Great  Britain.  But  initial  epidemiologic  studies 
identified  changes  in  rendering  operations  during  the  early  1980's.  These  included  a 
switch  from  batch  processing  to  continuous  processing,  and  the  discontinuation  of 
hydrocarbon  solvent  extraction  of  fat  from  meat  and  bone  meal(2).  The  current 
thinking  is  that  the  1980’s  rendering  process  allowed  a  substantial  dose  of  the  scrapie 
agent  to  survive  and  infect  the  feeding  cattle.  Infected  cattle  were  then  recycled  (via 
rendering)  through  the  food  chain,  thus  amplifying  the  number  of  new  cases.  Another 
theory  suggests  that  there  was  an  existing,  low-level  spongiform  encephalopathy  in 
the  cattle  population  that  was  increased  by  feeding  rendered  cattle  carcasses  back  to 
cattle(3).  This  second  theory  excludes  the  involvement  of  sheep  in  the  development 
of  the  disease. 


5 


In  the  rendering  process,  hydrocarbon  solvent  extraction  of  fat  involves  two  applica¬ 
tions  of  heat.  The  second  heat  treatment  uses  moist  heat  similar  to  that  of  an  auto¬ 
clave.  Autoclaving  is  known  to  aid  in  lowering  the  infectivity  of  the  scrapie  agent(4). 
Further  investigation  by  Wilesmith  and  others(5)  does  not  support  the  theory  that  the 
introduction  of  the  continuous  rendering  process  was  primarily  responsible  for  the 
exposure  of  cattle  to  a  scrapielike  agent.  It  does  suggest  that  eliminating  the  agent’s 
exposure  to  the  organic  solvent  and  to  the  moist  heat  treatment  may  have  allowed 
higher  titers  of  the  agent  to  remain  in  the  meat  and  bone  meal.  These  titers  would 
then  be  sufficient  to  infect  bovines. 

There  have  been  16  cases  of  BSE  reported  in  cattle  born  since  the  implementation  of 
the  July  1988  regulation  that  prohibits  feeding  ruminant  proteins  to  ruminants.  The 
first  affected  animal  was  a  26-month-old  Guernsey  cow  that  had  no  history  of  receiv¬ 
ing  feed  with  a  ruminant-based  protein  in  it.  The  animal's  dam  was  previously  con¬ 
firmed  to  have  had  BSE.  There  is  suspicion  that  the  other  15  infected  cows  may  have 
received  ruminant  protein  from  feed  not  disposed  of  after  the  ban  went  into  effect. 
Although  these  cases  may  point  to  the  possibility  of  maternal  transmission,  there  is  not 
enough  evidence  to  draw  any  conclusions. 

As  of  April  1992,  there  is  still  no  evidence  that  BSE  is  transmitted  by  sheep-to-cattle 
contact.  In  Great  Britain,  BSE  has  been  experimentally  transmitted  to  cattle,  mice, 
sheep,  and  a  pig  by  intracranial  injection.  It  has  also  been  transmitted  orally  to  mice. 

Cattle  affected  by  BSE  experience  a  progressive  nervous  system  degeneration.  This 
may  cause  the  animal  to  display  changes  in  temperament,  such  as  nervousness  or 
aggression;  abnormal  posture,  incoordination,  and  difficulty  in  rising;  decreased  milk 
production;  and  loss  of  body  weight  despite  continued  appetite.  All  affected  cattle 
eventually  die.  The  incubation  period  is  thought  to  be  from  2  to  8  years  with  the 
clinical  course  of  the  disease  lasting  from  2  weeks  to  6  months.  There  is  no  treatment. 

The  diagnosis  of  BSE  is  made  by  the  observation  of  clinical  signs.  Confirmation  is  by 
postmortem  histologic  examination  of  the  brain.  There  is  no  test  to  detect  the  disease 
in  live  animals. 

To  date,  no  scientific  evidence  indicates  that  BSE  is  a  human  health  hazard. 

There  have  been  other  manifestations  of  spongiform  encephalopathies  in  Great 
Britain.  These  have  occurred  in  cats,  kudus,  an  eland,  a  nyala,  and  a  gemsbok. 

As  a  result  of  BSE,  Britain  has  taken  a  number  of  actions,  including: 

1 .  Prohibiting  the  inclusion  of  ruminant-derived  protein  in  all  ruminant  rations.  Be¬ 
cause  investigators  were  able  to  transmit  BSE  to  a  pig,  specified  offal  from  all 
bovines  (brain,  spinal  cord,  spleen,  thymus,  and  intestines  with  the  mesenteric 
lymph  nodes)  can  no  longer  be  fed  to  warmblooded  animals. 

2.  Prohibiting  the  consumption  of  milk  and  meat  from  affected  cattle  by  either  animals 
or  humans. 

3.  Destroying  all  animals  displaying  clinical  signs  of  BSE  and  indemnifying  the 
owners. 


6 


USDA  Actions 


1 .  APHIS  has  prohibited  the  importation  of  ruminants  from  the  United  Kingdom  since 
July  1989. 

2.  In  November  1989,  APHIS  banned  the  importation  of  fetal  bovine  serum  from  the 
United  Kingdom.  There  has  also  been  a  ban  placed  on  other  ruminant-origin 
products  from  countries  known  to  have  BSE.  These  products  include  meat-and- 
bone  meal,  bone  meal,  blood  meal,  offal,  fat,  and  glands.  The  official  regulation 
went  into  effect  December  6,  1 991 . 

In  addition  to  prohibiting  the  materials  listed  above,  the  regulation  requires  that  im¬ 
ported  meat  from  the  ruminants  in  the  Bovidae  family  be  deboned  with  visible  lymphatic 
and  nervous  tissue  removed,  that  it  be  obtained  from  animals  which  have  undergone  a 
veterinary  examination  prior  to  slaughter,  and  that  it  be  obtained  from  ruminants  which 
have  not  been  in  any  country  affected  with  BSE  during  a  period  of  time  when  the 
country  permitted  the  use  of  ruminant  protein  in  ruminant  feeds.  This  was  not  done 
because  of  a  human  health  risk  but  to  prevent  potentially  contaminated  ruminant 
trimmings  from  entering  the  animal  food  chain  in  the  United  States. 

Other  ruminant  products  either  are  prohibited  or  must  be  imported  under  permit  for 
scientific,  educational,  research,  or  cosmetic  purposes. 

3.  Surveillance  efforts  have  been  stepped  up  in  the  United  States  to  verify  America’s 
BSE-free  status  and  to  detect  the  disease  promptly  should  it  be  introduced.  The 
surveillance  efforts  include: 

a.  Examination  of  brains  from  cattle  over  2  years  of  age  exhibiting  neurologic 
signs.  More  than  60  laboratories  throughout  the  country  have  agreed  to 
forward  tissue  to  the  National  Veterinary  Services  Laboratories  in  Ames,  IA,  for 
histologic  examination.  APHIS  is  working  in  cooperation  with  Iowa  State 
University  to  conduct  this  project.  Two  pathologists  have  gone  to  England  for 
training.  To  date,  they  have  examined  103  brains. 

The  Centers  for  Disease  Control  are  screening  rabies-negative  cattle  brains 
from  public  health  laboratories.  That  agency  has  examined  135  brains  as  of 
February  3,  1992. 

b.  Field  investigations  of  suspicious  disease  conditions  by  more  than  230  APHIS 
and  State  veterinarians  with  special  training  in  diagnosing  foreign  animal  diseases. 

c.  The  distribution  of  educational  materials  (including  factsheets,  an  informational 
packet,  and  a  British  videotape)  to  industry  groups,  veterinarians  in  private 
practice,  colleges  of  veterinary  medicine,  APHIS  field  offices,  and  State-  and 
extension-employed  veterinarians.  This  effort  is  being  made  to  inform  individu¬ 
als  about  the  disease  and  to  increase  their  awareness  of  its  signs. 

d.  The  coordination  of  activities  with  other  agencies,  such  as  the  USDA  Food 
Safety  and  Inspection  Service,  to  examine  downer  cows  at  slaughter  and  the 
Centers  for  Disease  Control  to  examine  brains  from  rabies-negative  but  BSE- 
symptomatic  cattle. 


7 


4.  Scientific  research.  USDA’s  Agricultural  Research  Service  (ARS)  has  allocated 
slightly  over  a  million  dollars  for  scrapie/BSE  research  in  FY  1992.  ARS  has 
projects  on  the  molecular  composition  of  the  agent,  efforts  for  a  preclinical  test  for 
scrapie,  and  rendering  studies  to  determine  if  the  scrapie  agent  will  survive  the 
rendering  process  used  in  the  United  States  and  cause  disease  in  laboratory 
animals  or  cattle. 

5.  Tracing  imported  cows.  APHIS  is  tracing  and  monitoring  cattle  imported  between 
1981  and  the  ban  on  importation  of  ruminants  from  the  United  Kingdom.  As  of 
December  10,  1991,  of  the  459  head  traced,  393  have  been  located  and  found  to 
be  free  of  signs  suggestive  of  BSE. 

6.  APHIS  established  a  BSE  Issue  Management  Committee  to  advise  agency  man¬ 
agement  on  all  aspects  of  BSE  policy.  This  committee  compiled  a  report(6)  that 
examined  seven  major  areas  of  concern: 

a.  Comparative  risk.  This  study  looked  at  animal  populations,  production  prac¬ 
tices,  rendering  practices,  and  relevant  regulations  in  the  United  States  and 
the  United  Kingdom  to  determine  if  significant  differences  in  BSE  risk  existed 
between  the  two  countries.  The  findings  suggest  that  the  United  States  has 
very  different  risk  factors  than  those  found  in  the  United  Kingdom. 

b.  Rendering  policy. 

c.  Contingency  plans  in  the  event  BSE  were  to  be  confirmed  in  the  United  States. 

d.  Surveillance.  The  committee  examined  what  efforts  are  being  made  at  present 
and  what  could  be  done  to  further  enhance  surveillance  for  BSE. 

e.  Public  relations.  The  committee  evaluated  the  problems  experienced  with  the 
media  in  the  United  Kingdom  and  analyzed  strategies  and  options  for  managing 
APHIS’  public  relations  in  regard  to  BSE. 

f.  Research. 

g.  The  impact  of  BSE  on  the  APHIS  scrapie  program. 

7.  APHIS  officials  continue  to  meet  with  other  governmental  agencies  and  industry 
groups  to  exchange  information  and  policy  ideas  about  BSE. 


Note:  It  is  imperative  that  U.S.  veterinarians  and  livestock  producers  maintain 
awareness  about  BSE  and  its  clinical  signs  and  submit  any  animals  with  suspect  signs 
for  diagnostic  purposes.  There  is  suspicion  throughout  the  world  about  the  United 
States’  apparent  freedom  from  BSE.  Hence,  to  ensure  early  detection  and  sustain 
U.S.  export  markets,  it  is  necessary  to  actively  seek  a  diagnosis  of  any  potential  case 
of  the  disease. 


References 


1.  Written  communication  from  Dr.  John  W.  Wilesmith,  Epidemiology  Unit,  Central 
Veterinary  Laboratory,  Weybridge,  England,  February  7,  1992. 

2.  Wilesmith,  J.  W.;  Wells,  G.  A.;  Cranwell,  M.  P.;  Ryan,  J.B  M.  1988.  Bovine 
spongiform  encephalopathy:  epidemiological  studies.  Veterinary  Record 
123:  638-644. 

3.  Personal  communication  with  J.  W.  Wilesmith,  November  1990. 

4.  Brown,  P.;  Rohwer,  R.  G.;  Gajdusek,  D.  C.  1986.  Newer  data  on  the  inactivation  of 
scrapie  virus  or  Creutzfeldt-Jakob  disease  virus  in  brain  tissue.  Journal  of  Infec¬ 
tious  Diseases  153(6):  1145-1148. 

5.  Wilesmith,  J.  W.;  Ryan,  J.B. M.;  Atkins,  M.  J.  1991 .  Bovine  spongiform 
encephalopathy:  epidemiological  studies  on  the  origin.  Veterinary  Record 
128(9):  199-203. 

6.  USDA,  APHIS,  VS.  1991 .  Qualitative  analysis  of  bovine  spongiform 
encephalopathy  risk  factors  in  the  United  States.  Hyattsville,  MD:  U.S.  Department 
of  Agriculture,  Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service,  Veterinary  Services. 


Ax 

<r  New  Methods  for 
Diagnosis  of  Malignant 
Catarrhal  Fever 


Confirmatory  viral  diagnosis  of  MCF  is  tedious  and  often  unrewarding.  Specimen 
autolysis  or  rapid  freezing  eliminates  viral  infectivity.  Further,  unless  they  are  from 
neonatal  or  juvenile  animals,  the  infected  tissues  contain  only  highly  cell-associated 
virus  that  replicates  slowly  and  may  have  to  undergo  repeated  cell  passages  before 
cytopathic  effect  is  seen.  Passage  procedures  appropriate  to  isolation  of  cell-associ¬ 
ated  viruses  are  particularly  stringent.  The  virus  can  be  passed  only  within  living  cells 
that,  if  frozen,  must  be  kept  viable  with  chemical  cryoprotectants.  These  viruses  also 
are  hard  to  demonstrate  by  fluorescent  antibody  staining  and  electron  microscopy. 
Because  of  these  difficulties  in  isolating  or  visualizing  the  virus,  serology  has  always 
been  the  primary  diagnostic  technique  used. 


(Dr.  Linda  A.  Detwiler,  VS,  APHIS,  USDA,  Trenton,  NJ  08619,  609-989-2255) 

Malignant  catarrhal  fever  (MCF)  is  most  typically  a  sporadic  (but  occasionally 
epizootic),  acute  syndrome  in  cattle  and  several  other  ruminant  species  that  is  fre¬ 
quently  fatal.  The  disease  is  characterized  by  intense  oronasal  and  conjunctival 
inflammation,  corneal  opacity,  and  multisystemic  lymphocellular  proliferation  with 
fibrinoid  and/or  mononuclear  cellular  vasculitis.  Infection  usually  occurs  following 
contact  with  infected  wildebeest,  other  antelopes,  or  (especially  in  Europe  and  the 
United  States)  sheep.  In  most  cases,  the  carrier  animals  have  an  inapparent  infection. 
Recently,  the  etiologic  agent  of  MCF  associated  with  wildebeest  contact  has  been 
placed  into  a  new  herpesvirus  group,  the  gammaherpesviruses,  and  has  been  named 
alcelaphine  herpesvirus-1  (AHV-1).  A  gammaherpesvirus  strain  isolated  from  other 
species  of  African  antelope  has  been  named  AHV-2.  This  gammaherpesvirus  has  not 
yet  been  associated  with  disease  in  cattle  but,  like  AHV-1 ,  produces  inapparent 
infection  in  reservoir  ruminant  species.  The  two  viruses  appear  to  differ  in  their  animal 
reservoirs  and  cell  culture  specificities.  In  cattle,  MCF  usually  is  presumed  to  be 
caused  by  a  third  strain  of  virus,  called  “sheep-associated  MCF  virus,”  which  until 
recently  had  never  been  grown  in  cell  culture. 


9 


The  basis  for  the  high  sensitivity  of  the  polymerase  chain  reaction  (PCR)  is  that  only 
one  or,  at  most,  several  viral  particles  are  necessary  for  amplification  to  detectable 
levels,  and  the  virus  need  not  be  viable.  Short  sequences  of  viral  DNA  in  buffy  coat 
cells  are  recognized  by  complementary  primer  sequences  prepared  from  known  viral 
DNA.  By  alternately  heating  and  cooling  the  mixture  of  primer  and  virus  in  the  pres¬ 
ence  of  polymerizing  enzyme,  geometrically  increasing  amounts  of  primer-specific 
DNA  are  formed  in  samples  positive  for  MCF.  The  presence  of  amplified  DNA  can 
then  be  confirmed  by  using  other  enzymes  that  break  it  down  so  that  the  component 
parts  can  be  compared  to  similar  (restriction  endonuclease)  products  of  known  MCF 
virus.  To  increase  the  sensitivity  and  specificity  of  the  procedure,  two  nested  primers 
frequently  are  chosen  for  a  two-stage  PCR. 

Highly  sensitive  PCR  procedures  were  already  in  use  for  viral  diagnosis  at  the  National 
Veterinary  Services  Laboratories,  and  use  of  such  a  procedure  for  diagnosis  of  MCF 
appeared  to  be  a  logical  approach.  The  senior  author,  in  cooperation  with  scientists  at 
the  National  Animal  Disease  Center,  undertook  development  of  a  two-stage  test  with 
nested  primers.  This  work  was  reported  in  a  recent  publication  (Katz,  J.;  Seal,  B.; 
Ridpath,  J.  1991 .  Molecular  diagnosis  of  alcelaphine  herpesvirus  [malignant  catarrhal 
fever]  infections  by  nested  amplifications  of  viral  DNA  in  bovine  buffy  coat  specimens. 
Journal  of  Veterinary  Diagnostic  Investigations  3:  193-198.)  Experimentally  it  was 
possible  to  identify  AHV-1  and  AHV-2  viruses  in  bovine  blood  and  cell  culture  origin 
specimens.  Each  of  five  AHV-1  and  two  AHV-2  isolates  was  specifically  positive  by 
PCR,  while  bovine  herpesvirus-1  (infectious  bovine  rhinotracheitis),  bovine  herpesvi¬ 
rus-2  (bovine  herpes  mammillitis),  and  bovine  herpesvirus-4  (DN-599)  were  PCR 
negative.  In  experimental  animal  infections,  four  calves  were  inoculated  with  AHV-1 . 
Three  remained  both  serologically  and  PCR  negative.  In  the  fourth  calf,  viral  DNA  was 
detected  in  vivo  only  3  days  postinfection,  whereas  seroconversion  first  occurred  14 
days  postinfection.  Viral  DNA  was  also  detected  in  a  108  dilution  of  106  TCIDgo/mL 
reference  virus,  attesting  to  the  sensitivity  of  the  technique.  Noninfectious,  defective, 
interfering  viral  particles,  and/or  the  possibility  that  the  PCR  target  may  be  a  repeated 
sequence  may  account  for  the  detection  of  as  little  as  0.01  TCID50  of  AHV-1 . 

MCF  is  a  disease  that  usually  is  not  easily  or  rapidly  diagnosed  by  conventional  virus 
isolation  methods.  The  PCR  and  associated  procedures  described  herein  may 
substantially  enhance  the  virologic  diagnosis  of  clinically  overt,  persistent  subclinical, 
and  latent  AHV-1  and  AHV-2  infections.  A  herpesvirus  recently  was  isolated  for  the 
first  time  from  sheep-associated  MCF  (Schuller,  W.,  et  al.  1990.  Evidence  that  the 
sheep-associated  form  of  malignant  catarrhal  fever  is  caused  by  a  herpesvirus. 

Journal  of  Veterinary  Medicine  37:  442-447).  Although  it  is  serologically  related  to 
AHV-1 ,  the  reactivity  of  that  virus  in  the  test  described  here  is  as  yet  unknown. 

The  PCR  method  currently  utilized  depends  on  demonstration  of  virus  in  buffy  coat 
cells,  theoretically  making  it  possible  to  detect  carrier  animals  by  collecting  blood  in 
ethylenediaminetetraacetate  (EDTA)  tubes  and  shipping  the  tubes  to  the  laboratory  on 
cold  packs.  Not  enough  is  known  about  the  regularity  with  which  latently  infected 
animals  have  virus  in  circulating  white  blood  cells  to  predict  the  actual  efficiency  of  the 
test  in  detecting  carrier  animals.  However,  APHIS  is  anxious  to  try  the  test  on  animals 
suspected  of  being  infected  with  MCF  virus.  Anyone  who  wants  to  use  this  test  for 
such  animals  is  encouraged  to  contact  the  senior  author  at  the  address  below. 

(Dr.  J.  B.  Katz,  Dr.  M.  L.  Frey,  Diagnostic  Virology  Laboratory,  National  Veterinary 
Services  Laboratories,  APHIS,  USDA,  Ames,  IA  50010,  515-239-8266) 


Foot-and-mouth  disease  (FMD)  has  been  identified  in  Latin  America  since  1870,  when 
the  disease  occurred  simultaneously  in  Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,  and  Uruguay,  associ¬ 
ated  with  the  importation  of  cattle  from  Europe.  Between  1870  and  the  1970’s,  the 
pattern  of  disease  outbreaks  was  characterized  by  periodic  enzootics.  These 
enzootics  were  attributable  to  inadequate  zoosanitary  control  over  the  movement  of 
livestock,  inefficient  inspection  and  quarantine  of  imported  animals  and  products  of 
animal  origin,  and,  more  recently,  failure  to  carry  out  vaccination. 

As  a  result  of  the  devastating  effects  of  the  enzootics  of  the  1950’s  and  the  early 
1960’s  on  trade  and  cattle  production,  the  governments  of  Latin  America  decided  to 
intensify  and  systematize  the  control  and  eventual  eradication  of  FMD  by  taking  the 
following  actions: 

1 .  Strengthening  the  institutional  infrastructure  of  the  ministries  of  agriculture  respon¬ 
sible  for  the  prevention  and  control  of  animal  diseases. 

2.  Creation  of  mechanisms  to  ensure  national  and  regional  coordination  of  efforts  to 
control  and  eradicate  animal  diseases  through  harmonization  of  technology  in 
campaign  execution,  efficient  diagnosis  of  disease,  development  of  methods  to 
control  information,  and  monitoring  of  vaccine  production. 

The  development  of  these  measures,  which  were  of  vital  importance  to  the  national 
programs  for  the  control  of  FMD,  was  supported  during  the  1960’s  and  1970’s  by  the 
Inter-American  Development  Bank,  which  loaned  approximately  $150  million  (U.S.)  to 
the  countries  involved.  Technical  assistance  was  provided  to  assist  the  veterinary 
services  in  the  execution  of  the  campaign  from  international  agencies,  including  the 
Pan-American  Health  Organization  and  World  Health  Organization,  the  United  Na¬ 
tions’  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization,  and  Inter-American  Institute  for  Cooperation 
on  Agriculture,  as  well  as  bilateral  aid  institutions,  including  USDA,  Overseas  Develop¬ 
mental  Assistance,  and  the  West  German  Agency  for  Technical  Cooperation.  These 
programs  constituted  the  base  for  the  creation  and  organization  of  the  animal  health 
services  in  most  nations  of  South  America. 

In  1972,  the  South  American  Commission  for  the  Control  of  FMD  (COSALFA)  was 
created  by  unanimous  decision  of  the  ministers  of  agriculture  of  Latin  America  at  the 
fifth  inter-American  ministerial  meeting  for  the  control  of  animal  disease  and  other 
zoonoses.  COSALFA  provides  a  forum  where  current  technology  can  be  discussed 
by  representatives  of  the  veterinary  services  of  the  nations  of  South  America.  The 
appropriate  technology  is  then  adopted  in  the  execution  of  campaigns  to  control  and 
eradicate  vesicular  disease.  Since  1973,  COSALFA  has  efficiently  coordinated, 
promoted,  and  evaluated  national  and  regional  efforts  directed  at  the  eventual  eradica¬ 
tion  of  FMD. 

By  1985,  the  nations  of  South  America  were  making  serious  efforts  to  develop  the 
infrastructure  to  fight  the  disease.  All  countries  have  now  developed  systems  to 
monitor  information  related  to  animal  disease,  as  well  as  services  for  epidemiologic 
surveillance,  diagnostic  laboratories,  laboratories  for  the  control  of  vaccines,  govern¬ 
mental  and  private  laboratories  for  vaccine  production,  and  the  national,  regional,  and 
zonal  requirements  for  executing  the  campaign. 

In  most  South  American  countries  today,  this  infrastructure  is  utilized  to  combat  not 
only  FMD  but  all  animal  diseases  of  economic  importance,  including  rabies, 
brucellosis,  tuberculosis,  and  ectoparasitism. 


9- 


/ 

Foot-and-Mouth  Disease 
in  Latin  America 


11 


Actual  Situation 


As  a  direct  consequence  of  these  actions,  FMD  has  been  eradicated  from  Chile, 
Argentina  south  of  the  42d  parallel,  Guyana,  French  Guyana,  and  Surinam. 

Though  much  remains  to  be  done  to  eradicate  FMD  from  the  remainder  of  the  conti¬ 
nent,  the  annual  incidence  of  the  disease  per  1,000  herds  has  decreased  from  13-20 
infected  herds  in  the  1960’s  to  1  in  1990.  Annual  morbidity  has  declined  from  200-300 
per  1 ,000  animals  to  approximately  7  per  1 ,000  animals.  From  1981  through  1990, 
7,613  laboratory  diagnoses  of  FMD  were  made  in  Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,  Paraguay, 
and  Uruguay.  Of  that  total,  30  percent  were  type  O  virus,  47  percent  were  type  A,  and 
the  remaining  23  percent  were  type  C.  The  following  subtypes  of  virus  were  identified 
in  1990:  0-1,  A-81,  A-24,  and  C-3.  To  control  the  disease,  an  inactivated  trivalent 
A1  (OH)3/saponin  vaccine  containing  antigens  prepared  from  O,  A,  and  C  types  of  the 
virus  has  been  used  for  many  years.  Cattle  are  vaccinated  every  4  months  in  order  to 
ensure  good  immunity.  An  oil  adjuvant  vaccine  is  now  being  introduced  and  offers 
promise  of  providing  longer  immunity.  It  requires  only  annual  vaccination  in  adult 
cattle  and  semiannual  vaccination  for  young  stock.  This  reduced  schedule  obviously 
substantially  lowers  the  cost  of  assembling  livestock. 

In  those  areas  now  free  of  the  disease — Chile,  Guyana,  French  Guyana,  Surinam,  and 
Argentina  south  of  the  42d  parallel — official  veterinary  authorities  immediately  use 
rigorous  measures  to  eliminate  FMD  when  foci  occur. 

In  spite  of  these  efforts  at  a  continental  level,  progress  since  1987  toward  eradication 
of  the  disease  has  remained  static.  The  epidemic  episodes  described  below  in  1990 
are  cause  for  concern: 

•  The  recurrence  of  FMD  in  Peru  in  the  Departments  of  lea,  Junin,  and  Ayacucha 
after  14  years  of  freedom  from  disease; 

•  The  increase  of  33  percent  in  outbreaks  in  Ecuador; 

•  The  increase  of  50  percent  in  outbreaks  in  the  Departments  of  Cochabama  and 
Santa  Cruz  in  Bolivia; 

•  The  appearance  of  FMD  in  livestock  in  the  Province  of  Rio  Negro,  which  placed  at 
risk  cattle  raised  in  the  area  of  the  Argentinean-Chilean  border;  and 

•  The  transmission  of  the  disease  from  animals  located  in  the  area  of  the  Rio  Salada 
to  fattening  cattle  in  the  Provinces  of  Buenos  Aires,  La  Pampa,  Santa  Fe,  and 
Cordoba. 

As  mentioned  earlier  in  this  report,  progress  in  the  eradication  of  FMD  has  been 
almost  nil  during  the  last  5  years.  The  vast  investment  in  the  operation  of  veterinary 
services  and  production  of  vaccine,  estimated  to  be  at  least  $250  million  (U.S.)  per 
year,  has  not  totally  eliminated  the  disease  or  the  associated  physical  losses.  There¬ 
fore,  zoosanitary  regulations  and  trade  restrictions  involving  livestock  and  animal 
products  from  South  America  continue  to  be  enforced  by  those  nations  free  of  the 
disease.  The  failure  to  progress  in  the  eradication  of  FMD  is  attributable  to  the 
following  factors: 


1 .  A  general  decline  in  the  operation  of  official  veterinary  services  due  to  insufficient 
funds. 

2.  Questionable  vaccine  coverage  because  livestock  owners  are  permitted  to  admin¬ 
ister  vaccine  themselves.  (To  correct  this  limitation,  in  the  future  cattle  vaccination 
will  be  directly  supervised  by  the  veterinary  services  of  each  nation  of  South 
America.) 

3.  Failure  in  each  country  to  implement  selective  and  specific  regional  strategies  to 
eradicate  FMD  that  take  into  consideration  the  epidemiologic  behavior  of  the 
disease  in  the  predominant  systems  of  cattle  production. 

4.  Reduction  in  numbers  of  trained  personnel,  who  are  essential  for  all  aspects  of  the 
campaign. 

5.  Difficulty  of  maintaining  continuity  in  the  execution  and  administration  of  the  cam¬ 
paigns  because  of  politically  motivated  interference  from  government  officials 
outside  the  veterinary  arena. 

6.  Failure  to  maintain  adequate  coordination  and  collaboration  with  other  institutions 
involved  in  animal  health,  including  universities,  extension  services,  associations  of 
livestock  farmers,  associations  of  veterinary  surgeons,  and  cooperatives. 

7.  Failure  to  convince  all  members  of  society  that  they  will  benefit  from  the  eradication 
of  FMD. 

8.  Grave  deficiencies  in  biologic  security  in  private  and  public  laboratories  managing 
the  virus,  thus  increasing  the  risk  of  escape  of  the  virus  from  these  establishments. 


Actions  Currently  Being  Adopted  To  Further  the  FMD  Eradication  Effort 

Member  countries  of  COSALFA,  conscious  of  the  problems  already  described  and  of 
the  technological  means  available  today  for  combating  FMD,  have  introduced  an 
updated  program  to  eradicate  the  disease  from  the  continent.  To  that  end,  they  have 
held  several  international  meetings  to  discuss  and  define  policies  and  strategies  for 
the  work  ahead.  The  first  of  these  meetings  was  held  in  Buenos  Aires  in  1 978. 

Their  actions  were  expanded  in  April  1987,  when  the  Fifth  Inter-American  Meeting  on 
Animal  Health  recommended  that  the  Pan-American  and  World  Health  organizations 
and  COSALFA  prepare  a  hemispheric  program  for  the  eradication  of  FMD,  including 
adequate  measures  for  program  implementation.  Within  this  framework,  during  the 
late  1980's  experts  from  each  country  formulated  plans  to  eradicate  the  disease  on  a 
regional  basis,  dividing  the  continent  into  the  following  zones:  Rio  de  la  Plata  basin 
(Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Uruguay),  the  Andes  (Bolivia,  Peru,  Ecuador,  Colombia,  and 
Venezuela),  and  Brazil  and  the  Amazon  area. 

The  regional  project  for  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  basin  became  a  reality  in  July  1 987,  when 
authorities  from  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Uruguay  signed  a  technical  assistance  agree¬ 
ment  to  harmonize  strategies  for  the  eradication  of  FMD.  The  agreement  included 
actions  to  develop  appropriate  technology  to  improve  diagnosis,  implement  a  system 
of  epidemiologic  surveillance,  administer  the  campaign  efficiently,  and  train  personnel 
The  total  cost  of  the  project  is  estimated  to  be  $58.1  million  (U.S.),  which  will  be 


13 


partially  covered  by  funds  from  loans  granted  to  Argentina,  Uruguay,  and  Brazil  by  the 
Inter-American  Development  Bank  and  the  World  Bank  for  the  development  of  the 
nations’  animal  health  services  over  the  past  3  years. 

The  strategy  to  eradicate  FMD  in  South  America  will  therefore  be  based  upon  the 
following  actions: 

1 .  Regionalization,  with  the  application  of  zoosanitary  measures  for  control  and 
eradication  based  upon  the  epidemiologic  behavior  of  the  disease.  This  strategy 
will  take  into  consideration  livestock  production  systems  as  well  as  the  ecological, 
social,  economic,  political,  and  cultural  conditions  of  the  region.  (One  result  of  the 
regional  approach  to  eradicating  FMD  is  already  encouraging:  no  outbreaks  have 
been  reported  in  Uruguay  since  May  1990.  In  Argentinean  Mesopotamia,  there 
has  also  been  a  decline  in  the  number  of  outbreaks.) 

2.  Selection  of  areas  where  the  disease  will  be  eradicated,  taking  into  account  the 
administrative,  technical,  social,  and  economic  capacity  to  execute  the  campaign. 

3.  Characterization  of  the  ecosystems  in  accordance  with  the  epidemiologic  behavior 
of  the  disease. 

Summary 

Much  work  remains  to  be  accomplished  in  order  to  eradicate  FMD  by  the  year  2005. 

Of  particular  importance  are  the  strengthening  of  veterinary  services,  the  education  of 
farmers  to  encourage  reporting  of  the  disease,  and  the  efficient  execution  of  livestock 
vaccination. 

(Clive  B.  Woodham,  B. Vet. Med.,  M.Sc.,  M.R.C.V.S.,  Inter-American  Development 
Bank,  Washington,  DC) 

/ 

Focus  on  Rinderpest,  an  Update  ■ 

A  review  of  rinderpest  and  its  recent  history  was  presented  in  the  fall  1988  issue  (vol. 
16,  no.  3)  of  the  Foreign  Animal  Disease  Report.  The  present  article  describes  the 
recent  distribution  of  this  disease  and  developments  in  its  improved  diagnosis  and 
control. 

Recent  History 

Africa.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  major  epidemics  of  the  early  1980’s,  the  Pan-African 
Rinderpest  Campaign  (PARC),  funded  by  the  European  Community  and  other  donors 
and  implemented  through  the  Organization  of  African  Unity,  is  leading  a  concerted 
vaccination  campaign  to  rid  the  whole  continent  of  this  disease.  In  West  Africa,  no 
outbreaks  of  the  disease  have  been  reported  since  1988.  In  East  Africa,  however, 
rinderpest  has  continued  to  be  reported  from  Sudan,  Ethiopia,  Uganda,  and  Kenya.  At 
present,  endemic  infection  is  established  in  that  region.  Fortunately,  the  virus  has  not 
spread  into  southern  Kenya  or  Uganda  to  threaten  economically  important  wildlife  and 
cattle  populations  there  and  in  neighboring  countries. 

In  Uganda,  Kenya,  and  Sudan,  affected  animals  typically  show  fairly  mild  clinical 
signs,  seldom  exhibiting  diarrhea  or  dying.  Careful  physical  examination  is  needed  to 


14 


detect  fever  and  necrotic  mouth  lesions,  which  may  be  transient.  In  Ethiopia,  more- 
virulent  outbreaks  of  the  disease  have  been  seen  in  cattle  of  the  central  highlands  and 
are  attributed  to  contact  with  infected  cattle  being  trekked  to  market  from  the  lower 
rangelands,  where  the  disease  is  reported  to  be  of  the  mild,  endemic  type. 

Middle  and  Near  East.  History  repeats  itself  with  outbreaks  of  rinderpest  following 
close  upon  war  and  civil  unrest.  During  1990  and  1991 ,  the  disease  was  officially 
reported  from  Yemen,  Oman,  and  Iran,  and  unconfirmed  reports  suggested  its  pres¬ 
ence  in  Syria,  Iraq,  and  Afghanistan.  In  the  latter  part  of  1 991 ,  the  disease  appeared 
in  eastern  Turkey,  from  whence  it  rapidly  spread  several  hundred  kilometers  west  to 
threaten  Europe.  In  so  doing,  it  crossed  with  ease  a  wide  cordon  sanitaire  intended  to 
protect  Europe  from  the  far  more  easily  transmissible  virus  of  foot-and-mouth  disease. 

Europe.  The  first  reported  outbreak  of  rinderpest  in  Europe  since  the  1920’s  (omitting 
a  contained  outbreak  in  the  Rome  zoo  in  1949)  occurred  in  Georgia  in  1990.  Interest¬ 
ingly,  the  report  noted  that  the  disease  affected  only  unvaccinated  stock,  posing  the 
question  as  to  why  cattle  in  this  region  were  still  being  vaccinated.  With  the  epidemic 
outbreak  in  Turkey  and  the  increasing  administrative  turbulence  in  the  dissolving 
Soviet  Union  and  its  former  satellites,  the  prospect  of  rinderpest  outbreaks  in  Europe 
now  seems  higher  than  at  any  time  since  the  Second  World  War. 

Asia.  Rinderpest  remains  endemic  or  sporadically  epidemic  in  India  and  Sri  Lanka 
and,  although  not  reported,  is  probably  present  in  neighboring  countries.  It  is  not 
reported  in  Southeast  Asia.  A  recent  outbreak  in  Mongolia,  the  first  since  1935, 
suggests,  however,  that  the  virus  may  be  more  prevalent  in  Central  and  East  Asia 
than  the  absence  of  reports  would  indicate. 

International  Control  Campaigns.  Rinderpest  is  rightly  considered  one  of  the  most 
controllable  of  all  diseases.  Several  international,  donor-funded  programs  are  now 
under  way  to  assist  individual  countries  in  their  control  of  the  disease  and  to  coordi¬ 
nate  the  efforts  of  these  countries  on  a  regional  basis.  PARC  aims  to  control  and 
eventually  eradicate  rinderpest  throughout  Africa.  The  South  Asia  Rinderpest  Cam¬ 
paign  has  a  similar  objective  in  India  and  its  neighbors,  and  an  international  campaign 
for  West  Asia  is  in  preparation. 

Technical  Developments 

Molecular  Studies.  As  with  most  other  viruses,  recent  research  has  focused  on  the 
genetic  code  of  the  virus  with  the  aim  of  defining  the  genes  and  their  products  respon¬ 
sible  for  inducing  protective  immunity.  One  immediate  benefit  has  been  the  develop¬ 
ment  of  recombinant  vaccines  (see  below). 

In-vitro  differentiation  of  strains  of  rinderpest  was  previously  impossible  despite  major 
differences  in  pathogenicity.  However,  recent  sequencing  of  viral  genes  has  begun  to 
define  strain  differences  that  may  provide  a  technique  for  the  molecular  mapping  of 
isolates  needed  to  assist  the  eradication  campaigns. 

Highly  purified  antigens  derived  from  recombinant  genes  and  monoclonal  antibodies 
are  being  produced  in  sufficient  quantity  for  use  in  the  development  of  a  new  genera¬ 
tion  of  more-sensitive  diagnostic  tests. 

Diagnosis.  The  most  extensively  used  diagnostic  laboratory  test  is  still  agar  gel 
immunodiffusion  (AGID).  Robust,  easy,  and  uniquely  specific,  it  is  supplied  in  kit  form 


15 


throughout  Africa  for  use  in  the  field  and  local  laboratories.  Its  only  drawback  is  its 
relative  insensitivity  for  confirming  disease  in  the  mild  cases  so  prevalent  in  areas 
where  rinderpest  is  endemic.  The  collection  of  lymphoid  tissues  from  alimentary  tract 
lesions  is  not  an  option  when  dealing  with  owners  who  expect  full  recovery  of  their 
animals.  Rapid  agglutination  tests  using  antibody-coated  latex  beads  have  shown 
their  potential  in  laboratory  experiments,  and  adaptations  of  the  electrophoretic 
immunosorbent  analysis  (ELISA)  on  “dipsticks”  or  other  small  substrates  should  prove 
equally  advantageous.  Unfortunately,  these  rapid  tests,  which  can  be  used  beside  the 
animal,  have  not  reached  the  field  and  must  surely  benefit  from  further  development 
using  monoclonal  antibodies  and  genetically  engineered  antigens.  In  these  situations, 
conjunctival,  nasal,  or  oral  swabs  can  be  used  as  a  source  of  antigen.  The  former  is 
particularly  useful. 

Rapid  virus  isolation  has  become  a  reality  using  continuously  growing  lines  of  bovine  T 
lymphoblasts.  Visible  syncytia  often  develop  in  these  cells  after  only  overnight  incuba¬ 
tion  with  infected  swab  samples  that  are  negative  on  the  AGID  test  and  that  may 
require  incubation  for  a  fortnight  before  isolation  on  conventional  cell  monolayers. 

Hybridization  techniq5%s  using  cDNA  probes  have  been  successful  in  distinguishing 
between  isolates  of  rinderpest  and  peste  des  petits  ruminants  virus  but  have  not  yet 
been  refined  for  routine  diagnosis.  Of  particular  potential  value  is  the  development  of 
a  test  employing  the  polymerase  chain  reaction  to  detect  only  minute  fragments  of 
viral  RNA  in  tissues  or  swabs  containing  unviable  virus  and  insufficient  or  decomposed 
viral  antigens  and  RNA. 

Serology.  The  indirect  ELISA  introduced  for  use  throughout  Africa  in  support  of 
PARC  was  recently  replaced  by  a  competitive  ELISA.  The  successor  is  said  to  give 
clearer  demarcation  between  positive  and  negative  sera,  but  as  with  its  predecessor,  it 
has  not  been  widely  used  and  will  require  further  comparison  with  the  widely  accepted 
virus  neutralization  test. 

Again,  there  is  room  for  new  tests,  such  as  agglutination  using  genetically  engineered 
antigens  and  a  rapid  virus  neutralization  test  using  bovine  lymphoblasts. 

Epidemiology.  Cattle  experiments  have  shown  that  certain  moderately  virulent 
strains  of  virus  can  cause  abortion  several  weeks  after  clinical  recovery  of  pregnant 
cows  and  that  the  aborted  fetus  may  contain  live  virus.  Transmission  to  cattle  via 
contact  was  not  achieved,  but  evidence  indicates  that  quarantine  periods  for  recov¬ 
ered  pregnant  cattle  need  to  be  reassessed.  Other  preliminary  experiments  have  also 
shown  that  mild  strains  are  not  necessarily  highly  contagious.  Such  information  is 
particularly  useful  for  computer  models  recently  developed  in  Africa  and  Europe,  which 
are  attempting  to  clarify  the  mechanisms  that  predispose  to  endemic  infection  and  the 
ways  in  which  control  procedures,  particularly  vaccination,  can  most  effectively 
prevent  infection. 

Vaccines.  As  mentioned  above,  recent  molecular  advances  have  resulted  in  the 
development  of  recombinant  vaccines.  Vaccinia  recombinants  expressing  the  F  and/ 
or  H  genes  were  developed  independently  in  the  United  States,  the  United  Kingdom, 
and  Japan.  These  recombinant  vaccines  induce  protective  immunity  in  experimentally 
inoculated  cattle  and  pigs  and,  because  of  the  known  thermostability  of  Vaccinia ,  offer 
great  potential  in  hot  climates.  Veterinarians  have  remained  cautious  about  the 
immediate  adoption  of  the  vaccines  due  to  reservations  about  the  widespread  use  of 
Vaccinia  and  the  lack  of  data  on  the  length  of  the  protective  response.  A  recombinant 


16 


using  a  less  pathogenic  variant  of  Vaccinia  has  now  been  produced  in  the  United 
States  and  may  be  more  acceptable  for  use  in  the  field.  Clinical  trials  should  soon 
assess  the  length  of  the  immune  response  it  induces. 

Another  program  in  the  United  States  has  resulted  in  significant  improvements  to  the 
keeping  qualities  of  the  commonly  used  cell-culture  attenuated  Kabete  “O”  vaccine. 
Growth  of  the  virus  in  Vero  cells  gave  much  higher  prefreeze-drying  titers,  and  a  more 
intensive  lyophilization  schedule  produced  lower  residual  moisture  content.  The  result 
is  a  lyophilized  vaccine  that  can  be  kept  without  refrigeration  at  high  ambient  tempera¬ 
tures  for  up  to  2  months,  as  has  been  successfully  confirmed  during  field  trials  in  Niger. 

PARC  also  commissioned  the  development  in  France  of  a  clone  of  attenuated  Kabete 
“O”  vaccine  that  was  significantly  more  thermostable  than  the  basic  vaccine.  PARC 
has  now  funded  a  program  to  combine  these  two  techniques,  the  French  thermostable 
clone  and  the  United  States’  improved  lyophilization  of  Vero-grown  virus.  The  result¬ 
ant  product,  to  be  named  Thermovax,  should  be  highly  thermostable  and  as  inexpen¬ 
sive,  safe,  and  immunogenic  as  its  Kabete  “O”  parent  stock. 

Research  Needed.  Some  of  the  research  issues  raised  in  the  1988  article  in  this 
report  still  remain  appropriate  objectives  today.  Effective  techniques  for  the  differen¬ 
tiation  of  strains  of  rinderpest  virus  and  a  serologic  test  to  distinguish  vaccinated 
animals  from  those  previously  infected  with  field  virus  are  still  required.  The  latter 
issue  will  be  resolved  if  the  recombinant  pox  vaccines  are  universally  adopted. 
Alternatively,  with  the  current  development  of  Thermovax,  now  might  be  the  time  to 
insert  or  delete  a  genetic  marker  that  allows  a  distinctive  antibody  development  in 
vaccinates. 

Now  that  the  thermostability  of  freeze-dried  vaccine  has  been  improved,  an  attempt  to 
increase  the  stability  of  the  reconstituted  vaccine  would,  if  successful,  result  in  more 
cattle  being  inoculated  with  live  virus. 

Research  into  the  mechanism  determining  virulence  and  its  attenuation  in  endemic 
areas  is  now  under  way  and  should  be  assisted  with  research  grants  from  international 
control  campaigns. 

One  new  research  need  is  the  development  of  more-sensitive  diagnostic  tests.  The 
previous  article  did  not  specify  this  as  necessary,  but  recent  experience  with  mild 
strains  in  East  Africa  has  clearly  demonstrated  the  shortcomings  of  AGID  and  the 
need  for  sensitive  and  simple  new  tests. 

Other  Problems.  The  essential  tools  for  the  eradication  of  rinderpest — a  way  to 
control  the  movement  of  animals  and  an  effective,  cheap  vaccine — have  been  avail¬ 
able  for  30  years  in  Africa  and  India,  but  the  disease  is  proving  difficult  to  eradicate. 
Recent  successes  in  West  Africa  show  how  effective  the  tools  are,  but  the  virus  still 
persists  in  East  Africa.  Why?  Responsible  authorities  have  been  tempted  to  excuse 
their  failures  by  suggesting  inherent  differences  in  the  strains  of  virus  persisting  in  their 
region.  There  is  no  evidence  to  support  this;  the  most  likely  reason  is  that  East  Africa 
has  a  far  greater  number  of  cattle  than  West  Africa,  and  that  throughout  much  of  the 
region  the  control  of  animal  movement  has  become  haphazard.  In  addition,  vaccina¬ 
tion  campaigns  are  not  always  pursued  with  sufficient  diligence,  or  in  synchrony  with 
campaigns  across  contiguous  national  boundaries,  or  with  the  fullest  support  of  the 
cattle  owners.  When  these  problems  are  solved,  then  rinderpest  will  be  eradicated  in 
East  Africa. 


17 


Clarification 


Subject  Index 


In  parts  of  Asia  where  rinderpest  is  also  independently  established  in  sheep  and  goats, 
ineffective  control  of  animal  movement  contributes  greatly  to  its  persistence.  An 
additional  factor  there  has  been  the  continuing  use  of  poor-quality  or  outdated  vac¬ 
cines  and  reluctance  to  adopt  new  ones.  Hopefully,  education  and  current  interna¬ 
tional  campaigns  will  help  to  rectify  this. 

New  morbilliviruses  have  recently  been  found  in  pinnipeds  and  cetaceans,  prompting 
speculation  about  the  origins  of  the  viruses.  Were  they  long-standing  infections  of 
their  respective  host  populations  that  have  only  now  been  detected  following  “green” 
public  interest  in  “die-offs,”  or  have  they  recently  evolved  after  chance  infection  with 
established  plagues  such  as  rinderpest  or  distemper? 

The  clear  biochemical  differentiation  of  the  African  from  the  Asian  strains  of  peste  des 
petits  ruminants  virus  has  led  one  authority  to  speculate  that  it  might  conceivably  have 
evolved  on  at  least  two  separate  occasions,  presumably  from  rinderpest.  Should  this 
be  so,  then,  considering  the  unknown  origins  of  the  new  marine  plagues  and  the 
recent  detection  of  peste  des  petits  ruminants  in  India,  the  permanent  eradication  of 
rinderpest  might  conceivably  require  the  eradication  of  that  disease  as  well.  However, 
with  the  exception  in  West  Africa,  rinderpest  is  currently  experiencing  a  resurgence, 
and  such  a  dilemma  is  still  several  years  in  the  future. 

(Dr.  C.  M.  Groocock,  Veterinary  Attache,  International  Services,  APHIS,  USDA, 
Hyattsville,  MD  20782,  301-436-8892) 

It  was  stated  on  page  4  of  the  Fall  1991  issue  of  the  Foreign  Animal  Disease  Report 
that  “The  Pan-American  Foot-and-Mouth  Disease  Center,  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil, 
diagnosed  vesicular  stomatitis  New  Jersey  in  El  Salvador  and  Honduras  for  October 
and  November  1990  and  in  Nicaragua  and  Costa  Rica  during  October  1990.” 

To  clarify:  Laboratory  samples  from  Central  America,  Belize,  and  Panama  to  be 
tested  for  vesicular  diseases  are  submitted  to  the  Laboratorio  de  Diagnostico  de 
Enfermedades  Vesiculares  (LADIVES),  a  USDA  support  lab  in  Panama.  The  results 
of  these  tests  are  then  sent  to  the  Pan-American  Foot-and-Mouth  Disease  Center,  Rio 
de  Janeiro,  Brazil,  where  they  are  distributed  in  a  monthly  bulletin  to  the  OIE. 

The  Foreign  Animal  Disease  Report’s  former  editor,  Edwin  I.  Pilchard,  noticed  that  vol. 
19,  no.  4  was  incorrectly  labeled  “Winter  1992.”  It  should  have  been  called  the  Winter 
1991  issue. 


A  subject  index  covering  articles  that  appeared  in  volumes  10  through  19  of  the 
Foreign  Animal  Disease  Report  is  available  upon  request. 


18 


Questions  about  the  FAD  Report  may  be  sent  to: 


Dr.  M.  A.  Mixson,  Editor 
USDA,  APHIS,  VS 
Room  741,  Federal  Building 
6505  Belcrest  Road 
Hyattsville,  MD  20782 

Thirty  days  before  moving,  send  address  change  and,  if  possible,  mailing  label  from 
latest  issue  to: 

Distribution  Management  Section 
USDA,  APHIS,  MSD,  PDMB 
Room  G-110,  Federal  Building 
6505  Belcrest  Road 
Hyattsville,  MD  20782 


19 


