Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


I 


jy-*- 


A-  / 

y/f  3 

Farm  Broadcasters  Letter 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  Office  of  Public  Affairs  Radio-TV  Division  Washington,  D.C.  20250  1202)  720-4330 

Letter  No.  2593  January  15,  1993 


MADIGAN  HOLDS  RADIO 
CONFERENCE  —  On  January 
12,  Secretary  of  Agriculture 
Edward  Madigan  held  an 
open-topic  radio  conference 
with  farm  broadcasters.  This 
was  the  last  that  Madigan  will 
make  with  broadcasters  before 
leaving  office.  Among  the 
many  issues  Madigan  discussed 
were  GATT,  NAFTA  and  the 
reorganization  of  USD  A. 

(See  photo  A). 


MADIGAN  ADDRESSES  USDA  RESTRUCTURING  -  On  January  7,  Secretary  of 
Agriculture  held  a  press  conference  to  address  preliminary  plans  to  restructure  USDA  field 
offices.  "The  current  USDA  field  office  structure  is  comparable  to  that  which  existed 
when  20  percent  of  the  U.S.  population  lived  on  farms  and  was  without  modern 
communication.  Today,  less  than  1  percent  of  the  U.S.  population  lives  on  farms  and 
has  all  of  the  modern  transportation  and  telecommunication  services  available  to  them." 
Madigan  made  reference  to  the  number  of  field  offices  in  relation  to  the  number  of 
farmers,  and  stressed  that  restructuring  is  not  going  to  effect  the  quality  of  USDA 
services.  "This  is  not  about  reducing  service  to  the  farmers,"  Madigan  said.  "It  is  about 
being  able  to  afford  to  improve  our  services  to  farmers  in  a  manner  that  respects  the  role 
of  the  American  taxpayer."  Contact:  Roger  Runningen  (202)  720-4623. 

NEW  ENTRIES  IN  FARMER-OWNED  RESERVE  —  Secretary  of  Agriculture  Edward  Madigan 
announced  that  producers  may  enter  1992-crop  corn,  grain  sorghum  and  barley  in  the 
Farmer-Owned  Reserve.  "I  am  making  this  announcement  now  so  producers  can  plan 
their  marketing  and  price  support  activities,"  Madigan  said.  Total  quantity  of  corn,  grain 
sorghum  and  barley  in  the  FOR  may  not  exceed  600  million  bushels.  Madigan  also 
emphasized  producers  may  not  obtain  a  FOR  loan  until  the  expiration  of  a  nine-month 
regular,  nonrecourse  price  support  loan.  FOR  loan  collateral  must  meet  all  quality 
requirements  for  feed  grains  that  are  pledged  as  collateral  for  a  nonrecourse  price  support 
loan.  Contact:  Bruce  Merkle  (202)  720-8206. 


2 


SOYBEANS  ON  OPTIONAL  FLEXIBLE  ACRES  --  Secretary  of  Agriculture  Edward  Madigan 
announced  that  soybeans  may  be  planted  on  optional  flexible  acreage  as  allowed  by  the 
1993  price  support  and  production  adjustment  programs.  Deficiency  payments  will  not 
be  made  to  optional  flexible  acreage  planted  to  a  crop  other  than  the  crop  for  which 
acreage  base  has  been  established.  However,  producers  who  plant  program  crops  or 
oilseeds  on  optional  flexible  acres  may  receive  price  support.  Contact:  Robert  Feist 
(202)  720-6789. 

NEW  CORN  RESISTANT  TO  PESTS  -  A  new  corn,  designated  GT-FAWCC  (C5),  that 
reduces  fall  armyworm  leaf  damage  by  25  percent  has  been  released  to  plant  breeders. 
The  new  germplasm  will  be  particularly  helpful  in  the  South,  where  armyworm  causes  the 
most  problems.  Scientists  estimate  the  armyworm  causes  $25  to  $30  million  in  damage 
to  crops  in  the  southeastern  states  each  year.  Scientists  with  USDA's  Agricultural 
Research  Service  developed  the  corn  germplasm  by  screening  several  thousand  plants 
from  Mexico,  the  Caribbean  and  Brazil.  Contact:  Sean  Adams  (301)  504-9108. 

ANIMAL  BIOTECHNOLOGY  —  The  world's  first  calves  of  predetermined  sex  produced 
from  sorted  sperm  and  in  vitro  fertilization  of  cows'  eggs  have  been  born  in  Cambridge, 
England.  The  sperm  sorting  technology  was  developed  by  a  USDA  scientist.  USDA  has 
patented  the  technology  and  issued  a  non-exclusive  license  to  Animal  Biotechnology 
Cambridge  Ltd.  of  Cambridge,  England.  In  developing  the  sperm-sorting  technology  at 
the  Agricultural  Research  Center  in  Belts ville,  Md.,  researchers  have  obtained  live  births 
of  predetermined  sex  in  swine,  sheep  and  rabbits.  Researchers  said  75  to  90  percent  of 
the  offspring  were  of  the  predicted  sex.  Contact:  Sandy  Miller  Hays  (301) 

504-9089.  " 

SOIL  QUALITY  TEST  NEEDED  --  A  global  network  to  monitor  soil  health  is  urgently 
needed,  according  to  scientists  with  USDA's  Agricultural  Research  Service.  Currently, 
there  is  nothing  available  that  can  measure  and  predict  farming's  effects  on  all  the  key 
aspects  of  soil  quality,  such  as  soil  productivity,  environmental  quality,  food  safety  and 
quality,  and  human  health.  Scientists  say  it  is  no  longer  just  a  question  of  measuring  the 
traditional  physical  and  chemical  properties  to  predict  crop  yields.  Contact:  Don  Comis 
(301)  504-9073. 

LIVESTOCK  AND  POULTRY  UPDATE  --  Slaughter  levels  continue  to  be  held  down  by 
current  feedlots  and  a  series  of  winter  storms  which  slowed  weight  gains.  Brisk  beef 
sales  following  Thanksgiving  resulted  in  increased  orders  at  retail  levels.  Tight  beef 
supplies  and  beef  import  restraints  in  December,  and  concern  for  supplies  of  lean 
processing  beef,  caused  prices  to  fluctuate  for  90  percent  lean  beef.  Contact:  Ron 
Gustafson  (202)  219-1285. 


Editor:  Carol  Childers 
R-TV  Fax:  (202)  690-2165 
Ag  NewsFAX  (202)  690-3944 


3 


FROM  OUR  RADIO  SERVICE 

AGRICULTURE  USA  #1858  --  John  Snyder  looks  at  changes  in  the  mushroom  industry  that 
could  affect  how  farmers  do  business  and  how  much  we  pay  for  the  tasty  fungus.  (Weekly  reel 
-  13-1/2  minute  documentary.) 

CONSUMER  TIME  #1340  -  Reflections  of  an  outgoing  ag  secretary;  food  safety  update;  frozen 
pies;  curbs  on  wood  burning?;  deicers  and  your  lawn.  (Weekly  reel  of  2-1/2  to  3  minute 
consumer  features.) 

AGRITAPE  NEWS  &  FEATURES  #1850  -  USDA  news  highlights;  a  first  look  at  new  ag 
secretary  designate;  feed  grains  into  the  reserve  after  all;  agriculture  cruisin'  63;  and  ag  finance 
outlook.  (Weekly  reel  of  news  features.) 

NEWS  FEATURE  FIVE  #1603  -  Dry  country  legume;  landscaping  with  globemallow;  breeding 
resistant  pecans;  new  pecan  disease;  and  strength  training  vs.  aerobics.  (Weekly  reel  of 
research  feature  stories.) 

UPCOMING  ON  USDA  RADIO  NEWSLINE  -  Thursday,  January  21,  catfish  processing;  Friday, 
January  22,  oil  crops  outlook,  livestock  and  poultry  update,  dairy  outlook;  Monday,  January  25, 
crop  values  summary;  Tuesday,  January  26,  crop/weather  update;  Thursday,  January  28, 
poultry  production,  world  tobacco  situation;  Friday,  January  29,  ag  prices,  cattle  on  feed,  sheep 
and  lambs  on  feed  (first  report  of  a  new  USDA  series).  These  are  the  USDA  reports  we  know 
about  in  advance.  Our  Newsline  carries  many  stories  every  day  which  are  not  listed  in  this 
lineup.  Please  don't  let  the  lack  of  a  story  listing  keep  you  from  calling. 

DIAL  THE  USDA  RADIO  NEWSLINE  (202)  488-8358  or  8359. 

Material  changed  at  5  p.m.,  ET,  each  working  day. 

FROM  OUR  TELEVISION  NEWS  SERVICE 

FEATURES  --  Lynn  Wyvill  reports  on  food  safety  tips  for  giving  and  receiving  mail  order  food 
gifts  and  Pat  O'Leary  reports  on  real  Christmas  trees. 

ACTUALITIES  -  Secretary  of  Agriculture  Edward  Madigan  on  USDA's  reorganization  and 
Russia's  default  on  debt;  Excerpts  from  confirmation  hearing  of  Representative  Mike  Espy  (D- 
Miss.),  Secretary  of  Agriculture  nominee;  USDA  World  Board  Chairman  James  Donald  on 
outlook  for  wheat,  corn  and  soybean  crops  and  USDA  chief  meteorologist  Norton  Strommen  on 
crop  progress  and  the  drought  in  the  West. 

UPCOMING  FEATURES  -  DeBoria  Janifer  reports  on  nutrition  labeling  for  meat  and  poultry;  Pat 
O'Leary  has  a  three-part  series  on  the  changing  number  of  U.S.  farms;  Lynn  Wyvill  reports  on 
USDA  soy  oil  diesel  research  and  Brian  Norris  reports  on  rural  health  care  information. 

EVERY  OTHER  WEEK  -  Agriculture  Update  with  anchors  Eric  Parsons  and  Lori  Spiczka.  Five 
minutes  of  USDA  farm  program  information  in  news  desk  format  with  B-roll. 

Available  on  Satellite  Galaxy  6,  channel  23,  audio  6.2  or  6.8,  downlink  frequency  4160  MHz.: 
Thursdays  from  7:30  -  7:45  p.m.,  ET,  Saturdays  from  10  -  10:30  a.m.,  ET,  and  Mondays  from 
8  -  8:30  a.m.,  ET. 


4 


OFFMIKE 

BAD  WEATHER. ..wouldn't  be  a  bad  deal.  That's  the  way  Larry  Burchfield  (KWCK,  Searcy,  AR) 
put  it  when  talking  about  Ag  Expo  '93  in  Searcy,  Jan.  15-16.  Larry  says  inclement  weather 
increases  attendance.  Exhibit  space  has  sold  out.  Larry  says  there  are  more  feed  and  livestock 
companies  participating  this  year,  exhibiting  to  the  region's  row  crop  and  livestock  producers. 
Larry  will  be  broadcasting  live  from  the  new  exhibit  hall  at  the  fair  grounds. 

NO-TILL. ..may  get  a  boost  due  to  the  lack  of  opportunity  for  fall  tillage  work,  says  Gary  Kinnett 
(WIAI,  Danville,  IL).  Many  corn  and  bean  producers  were  harvesting  during  December  due  to  wet 
fields.  But  the  yields  were  terrific,  some  corn  coming  in  at  236  bushels  per  acre. 

FARM  ISSUES. ..have  been  assigned  to  Karl  Fruendt  (KTKA-TV,  Topeka,  KS).  Karl  also  covers  the 
state  capital. 


Farm  Broadcasters  Letter 


Office  of  Public  Affairs 
Radio-TV  Division 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Washington,  D.C.  20250-1300 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use  $300 


TEN-DAY. ..tour  of  Israel  was  covered  in  December  by  Don  Green  (AgDay,  Lafayette,  IN).  Among 
the  many  activities  sampled  by  the  group  of  31  AgDay  viewers  was  life  on  a  collective  farm.  Al 
Pell,  who  hosted  the  tour  and  conducted  several  interviews  for  his  daily  syndicated  program,  says 
Israel  is  a  world  leader  in  irrigation  and  greenhouse  technology. 


FARM  BROADCASTER. ..Public  Affairs  Specialist  position  is  open  at  USDA  Radio.  For  information 
about  how  to  apply,  contact  Norita  Fortune  (202)  720-4802,  USDA  Office  of  Personnel,  Room 
1  2-W  Administration  Bldg.,  14th  &  Independence  Ave.  SW,  Washington  D.C.  20250.  Ask  for 
information  about  announcement  13-3-54.  Closing  date  is  January  27,  1993. 


CORRECTION. ..Kathleen  Erickson  (KLSN,  Jefferson,  IA)  reports  that  her  husband's  first  name  is 
Bruce,  not  Scott,  as  statecbin  the  December  24,  1992  issue.  Our  apologies. 


VIC  POWELL^^^^O^^T^ 
Chief,  Radio  &  TV  Division 


