Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


SO\i 

CLt'M3) 


Intermountain  Reporter 


i 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  •  Forest  Service  •  Intermountain  Region  •  Ogden,  Utah  •  APRIL  1991 


TQM 


«  Sei^Pnadairnd  Aidoinat 


Change  is  never  easy  and  TQM  is  no  exception.  But,  iCs  easier  in  an  open  environment.  The  Regional 
Public  Affairs  Office  has  committed  to  improving  openness  and  candor  in  Region  4.  Towards  that  end,  the 
Intermountain  Reporter  will  include  occasional  ^leadership  profiles,^*  sharing  the  stories  and  struggles  of 
people  around  the  Region  who  are  changing  the  organization — and  themselves.  This  is  the  first.  The 
Regional  Public  Affairs  staff  will  write  some  profiles  but  contributions  are  also  welcomed.  For  more  infor¬ 
mation,  contact  Editor  Colleen  Anderson  or  Cindy  Chojnacky  in  the  Regional  Public  Affairs  Office. 


Jim  Nelson  does  everything  wholeheartedly.  The  Toiyabe  Na¬ 
tional  Forest  Supervisor  says,  “I  hurl  myself  at  things 
with  abandon.  I  don’t  stick  my  toe  in  the  pool.  I  jump  in!’ 

So,  when  Total  Quality  Management  (TQM)  came  along,  Jim 
jumped  in  and  dragged  the  Toiyabe  along  with  him.  He 
volunteered  for  the  Regional  Quality  Steering  Team— which  means 
a  personal  investment  of  time  and  energy  and  a  commitment  of 
already  stretched-to-the-limit  Forest  funds  to  cover  monthly  trips 
to  Ogden  for  Team  meetings.  The  Toiyabe  immersion  includes 
three  TQM  facilitators,  a  “steering  team”  on  every  District,  an  an¬ 
nual  quality  plan,  and  several  Forest-wide  quality  improvement 
projects.  All  employees  have  been  trained  in  TQM  and  most  in  a 
number  of  other  TQM  “tools”— interactive  decisionmaking,  plan¬ 
ning  and  measurement,  and  problem  solving. 

“I  have  very  selfish  motives!’  admits  Jim.  “In  my  mind,  there  are 
only  two  important  levels  of  the  Forest  Service— the  Washington 
Office  and  the  ground.  Yet  most  of  the  money  goes  to  the  middle. 
I  estimate  that  only  15  cents  of  each  appropriated  dollar  reaches 
the  District.  I  don’t  believe  we  need  that  padding  between  us  and 
the  Washington  Office  and  I  see  TQM  as  a  way  to  change  and 
streamline  the  Forest  Service  bureaucracy!’ 

Jim  Nelson,  Forest  Supervisor  of  the  Toiyabe  National  Forest. 


Page  2 


TQM 


“I  am  trying  to  run  the  Toiyabe  National 
Forest  with  half  the  money  needed  to  do  a 
reasonable  job  of  stewardship.  With  no  tim¬ 
ber  program,  increasing  fixed  costs  and  a 
projection  of  continual  low  budgets,  the 
future  looks  no  better  than  the  status  quo. 

As  I  searched  for  a  vehicle  to  reverse  or 
change  the  Forest’s  destiny,  TQM  hit  the 
Regional  scene.  I  knew  that  if  anything  could 
bring  the  needed  changes,  TQM  was  it!’ 

But,  possibly  the  greatest  effect  of  TQM  has 
been  on  Jim  himself.  One  thing  TQM  stress¬ 
es  is  that  management  commitment  is  essen¬ 
tial.  “As  I  was  exposed  to  new  ideas  on 
quality,  I  started  to  see  that  the  old  auto¬ 
cratic  way  of  doing  things— which  I  was  very 
good  at— wasn’t  effective!’  Jim  admitted. 

Jim  recently  went  to  an  executive  awareness 
session  in  North  Carolina  to  help  him 
understand,  and  maybe  adjust,  his  “driving” 
management  style.  Members  of  his  leader¬ 
ship  team  also  have  agreed  to  attend  that 
session.  “If  you  don’t  have  yourself  figured 
out  internally,  forget  about  external  customer 
service”  Jim  maintains.  “Managers  have  to 
set  the  example.  If  they  can’t  practice  what 
they  preach,  people  are  going  to  see  it  and 
withhold  commitment!’ 


"^People  tell  me  Fve  changed”  Jim 
says.  “/  have  learned  to  be  a  better 
listener.  /  found  out  that  a  group 
can  make  a  better  decision  than  a 
manager  can  from  his  lofty  sphere. 


I  made  great  and  glorious  decisions,  then 
nothing  happened  because  there  was  no 
commitment  to  them.  Getting  prior  input 
takes  time  and  often  the  ultimate  decision  is 
different— and  often  better— than  my  deci¬ 
sion  would  have  been!’  Jim  has  found  that 
the  more  he  involves  employees  up  front,  the 
less  he  has  to  be  involved  in  making  things 
happen. 

TQM  has  made  Jim  see  more  clearly  the  ad¬ 
vantages  of  consensus  and  of  listening  to 
people’s  ideas,  notes  Doyle  Hanks,  Assistant 
Fire  Management  Officer.  “Jim  is  very  com¬ 
petitive.  He  has  to  be  the  best.  That  includes 
having  the  Toiyabe  recognized  as  a  top- 
quality  organization.  There  have  been  times 
in  the  past  when  Jim  felt  that  his  way  was 
the  way  it  needed  to  be  done!’ 

“Jim  is  personally  committed  to  TQMj’ 
observes  Tom  Wagner,  Toiyabe  TQM 


Facilitator.  “In  Region  4,  we’re  organiza¬ 
tionally  committed  to  it  but  many  people 
aren’t  personally.  Because  Jim  wants  the 
Toiyabe  to  be  out  in  front,  I  feel  1  have  the 
respect  of  the  leadership  team  and  that 
makes  my  facilitator  role  much  easier!’  “If 
there’s  a  down  side!’  Tom  adds,  “it’s  that  we 
have  trouble  keeping  up  with  him.  Jim  has 
so  much  enthusiasm.  People  can  only  take  so 
many  new  ideas!’ 

Tom  notes  that  Jim  is  trying  a  more  par¬ 
ticipative  management  style.  “That’s  difficult 
when  middle  managers  are  used  to  ‘the  boss’ 
operating  in  a  different  way.  Participative 
management  means  slower  decisions  and 
we’re  struggling  with  that  now.  I  think  the 
internal  turmoil  we’d  expected  from  TQM 
changes  is  just  beginning!’ 

“Jim  gets  a  little  frustrated  because  some  in¬ 
dividuals  aren’t  readily  accepting  TQM!’  says 
Susan  Martinez,  Nelson’s  secretary  for  the 
past  year.  “I  keep  reminding  him  that  it’s  a 
great  concept  and  it  will  work.  It  just  takes 
time  and  people  need  to  see  some  small  ac¬ 
complishments!’ 

“I  see  some  definite  improvements!’  notes 
Cece  Stewart,  Toiyabe  Information  Assistant. 
“He  has  directed  his  Staff  to  be  more  sup¬ 
portive  of  their  people.  We  didn’t  have  that 
before.  I  think  he  involves  more  people  in 
decisions  than  he  used  to  but  there  is  still 
room  for  improvement.  I  think  Jim’s  support 
is  directed  more  to  the  upper  levels.  I  don’t 
think  he  has  been  aware  of  the  GS-2,  3,  4, 
and  5’s.  I  do  see  that  slowly  changing!’ 

Accounting  Technician  Georgia  Higgins  says ,, 
“Jim’s  really  working  at  trying  to  change!’ 

Some  employees  feel  that  the  Toiyabe’s  work 
environment  is  cold  and  unfeeling  with  a  lot 
of  ongoing  cliques.  They  feel  this  is  a  Forest 
where  top-down  management  still  persists. 
The  Toiyabe’s  vast  distances  don’t  help  those 
problems.  Some  Districts  are  500  miles  away 
from  the  Supervisor’s  Office  and  some 
District  personnel  are  used  to  seeing  Jim 


only  once  or  twice  a  year. 

“I’ve  always  had  a  problem  of  not  making  a 
good  first  impression!’  Jim  says.  “When 
people  get  to  know  me,  that  first  impression 
changes!’  Furthermore,  he  has  had  a  Forest 
legacy  to  overcome.  “When  I  first  came  to 
the  Toiyabe,  we  had  very  significant  prob¬ 
lems  including  alcoholism  and  some 
vegetating  members  of  the  primary  staff. 
Now,  I  would  probably  deal  more  gently 
with  those  problems  than  I  did  then.  Then  I 
removed  or  moved  some  60-70  people!’ 

“A  lot  of  people  came  to  the  Forest  with  a 
pretty  grim  mental  picture  of  me.  Some  still 
carry  that  around!’ 

Jim  admits  he  is  impatient  and,  at  times, 
regresses.  At  a  recent  meeting,  “I  found 
someone  offensive.  I  reacted  the  old  way;  I 
nailed  him  to  the  wall  and  then  walked  out 
of  the  room.  Typical  me!’  Outside,  Jim 
realized  he  had  blown  it.  Change  is  not 
easy.  Did  he  walk  back  in?  “No.  I  had  to 
catch  a  plane,  but  I  did  go  to  the  employee 
and  apologize  later!’ 

“TQM  is  going  to  help  me  overcome  that 
type  of  reaction!’  Jim  notes.  “I’m  doing  a 
lot  more  management  by  wandering  around. 
I  feel  we  have  a  good  esprit  d’  corps  on  the 
Toiyabe  which  is  really  three  Forests  in  one, 
each  one  different.  That’s  unique.  People 
work  hard  here  and  it’s  a  dynamic,  challeng¬ 
ing  place  to  work!’ 

Jim  says,  “This  Agency  is  old  and  very 
resistant  to  change.  We  think  we  know  what 
the  public  needs  but  that  attitude  isn’t 
working  for  us.  We  have  to  learn  to  be 
receptive  to  change.  Even  though  I  like 
change,  at  times,  I,  too,  resist  it.  We  need  to 
catch  up  with  the  times!’ 

“Change  is  difficult  because  it  makes  us  un¬ 
comfortable,  but  change  is  essential!’ 

Cindy  Chojnacky 
Public  Affairs 
Regional  Office 


Cindy  Chojnacky 
interviews  Jim 
Nelson,  Forest 
Supervisor  of  the 
Toiyabe  National 
Forest,  for  the 
first  in  a  series  of 
"leadership  pro¬ 
files  in  change.” 


Page  3 


TQM 


Prescribed  for  Forest  Service  “Midlife  Crises” 


The  Forest  Service,  like  any  organi¬ 
zation,  has  gone  through  the  same 
growth  process  people  do— birth, 
infancy,  adolescence  and  young  adulthood, 
according  to  Dr.  James  Kennedy. 

Total  Quality  Management  (TQM)  can  help 
bring  the  Forest  Service  through  the  midlife 
crisis  it’s  been  in  since  the  1960’s. 

Kennedy,  a  Utah  State  University  professor 
who  has  studied  Forest  Service  employee 
values,  spoke  to  members  of  the  Regional 
Office  Employees  Quality  Steering  Team 
(ROEQST)  in  February.  ROEQST  had 
asked  Kennedy  to  provide  an  “outsider’s” 
view  of  TQM,  based  on  responses  and 
comments  ROE-QST  had  received  from 
Regional  Office  employees  over  the  last  9 
months. 

Kennedy  prefaced  his  remarks  with  some 
Forest  Service  history.  When  the  Agency 
was  formed,  the  mood  of  the  country 
to  build,  expand  and  develop  the  land.  The 
United  States  shifting  from  an  agricul¬ 
tural  to  an  industrial  stage  of  socio¬ 
economic  development.  Land  conservation 
was  foreign  to  American  thinking.  People 
in  the  late  1800’s  thought  land  was 
unlimited  and  there  would  ALWAYS  be 
more  timber,  rivers,  land,  etc.  Fortunately, 
there  were  a  few  who  disagreed.  Gifford 
Pinchot,  one  of  the  most  vocal  dissidents, 
was  the  first  Forest  Service  Chief 


The  men  who  made  up  the  in¬ 
fant  Forest  Service  were  con¬ 
sidered  ‘iough-guysf  C*The 
weak  need  not  apply”  was  ac¬ 
tually  a  slogan  on  recruiting 
posters  during  that  era.) 


Most  employees  were  white  male  Americans 
with  similar  backgrounds  and  ambitions. 
Management  focus  was  on  renewable 
resources  or,  as  we  know  it  today,  sus¬ 
tainable  commodities. 

As  the  years  went  by,  the  Forest  Service 
became  a  very  successful  organization.  No 
wonder.  Everyone  involved  was  going  in 


the  same  direction.  There  was  tittle  disagree¬ 
ment  and  virtually  no  diversity  to  “hamper” 
its  success.  The  Forest  Service  became  an  ef¬ 
ficient  machine  that  provided  the  raw  pro¬ 
ducts  America  needed.  The  military  organi¬ 
zation,  loyalty  and  emphasis  on  targets 
resulted  from  this  mission.  The  American 
public  viewed  the  Forest  Service  as  the  good 
guys  in  the  white  (khaki)  hats.  The  profes¬ 
sionals  changed  from  tough  guys  to  elite, 
aristocratic  foresters.  They  evolved  from  be¬ 
ing  rebels  against  the  system  to  BE 
COMING  the  system.  Everything  was  going 
pretty  good  for  the  Forest  Service. 

Then,  the  mood  of  the  American  public 
changed  again.  The  United  States  was  shift¬ 
ing  from  an  industrial  to  an  urban  post¬ 
industrial  society.  The  sixties  brought  dissen¬ 
sion— everywhere.  The  Forest  Service  was 
starting  to  lose  some  of  its  credibility  with 
the  public.  No  longer  was  it  good  enough  to 
cut  trees  down  and  then  plant  new  ones. 
People  wanted  other  forest  resources  to  have 
as  much  importance  as  the  trees. 

In  1969,  the  National  Environmental  Policy 
Act  (NEPA)  was  signed.  NEPA  was  an  at¬ 
tempt  to  put  the  Eorest  Service  in  touch 
with  what  Americans  REALLY  wanted.  It 
required  the  Forest  Service  to: 

—open  up  and  justify  decisions, 

-share  power  with  professional 
colleagues  who  are  sexually  and 
ethnically  diverse, 

—and  integrate  the  public. 

It  also  made  the  Forest  Service  a  little  crazy! 
It  had  been  doing  things  its  way  for  so  long 
and  now  it  had  to  deal  with  and  listen  to  a 
diverse  public.  No  longer  could  white  male 
America  run  the  show.  The  Forest  Service 
was  beginning  its  “midlife  crisis.” 

And  now  TQM  has  entered  the  picture. 
Kennedy  found  quite  a  few  “general 
themes”  in  employee  responses  to  TQM. 
Many  people  are  skeptical  because  they  feel 
the  Forest  Service  is  putting  all  its  eggs  into 
one  basket,  that  TQM  is  being  treated  as  a 
miracle  drug— something  that  will  solve 
ALL  the  problems.  He  also  found  some 
distrust.  Some  feel  that  TQM  will  create  a 
new  “in-power  group”  that  could  generate 
feelings  of  unfairness  and  alienation. 


FOREST  SERVICE 
MIDLIFE  CRISIS 
MEDiaNE 


One  frequent  theme  is  that  employees  want 
to  be  treated  as  competent,  contributing 
professionals.  They  want  more  communi¬ 
cation  between  all  levels.  They  want  to  be 
heard.  They  want  respectful  responses. 

They  want  to  share  the  power! 

They  don’t  want  to  feel  intimidated  if  they 
don’t  agree  with  everything  that  is  going 
on.  Dr.  Kennedy  said  that  sometimes  con¬ 
troversy  is  the  truest  form  of  loyalty.  It 
shows  that  a  person  really  does  want  things 
to  change.  He  said  feelings  of  unsureness, 
apprehension,  and  loss  are  normal;  they  are 
a  part  of  change.  In  fact,  they  are  needed 
for  change  to  occur.  We  should  not  become 
discouraged  because  of  changes.  Instead, 
we  should  accept  them  and  move  on. 

For  many  years,  the  Forest  Service  has  been 
trying  to  get  things  “right”  again;  but,  the 
quick  fixes  never  seem  to  work.  TQM  is 
not,  and  must  not  become,  another  quick 
fix.  It  is  a  change  of  attitude.  It  is  a  pro¬ 
cess  that  will  never  be  over  because  we  can 
always  improve.  We  need  to  learn  how  to 
disagree  and  to  deal  with  confrontation  in 
order  for  TQM  to  work.  We  need  to  accept 
its  existence  and  celebrate  it! 

Ann  Allan 
Planning  &  Budget 
Regional  Office 


Page  4 


TQM 


REGIONAL  QUALITY  IMPROVEMENT  TEAM  UPDATE 

This  is  a  brief  update  on  Region  4\  six  Quality  Improvement  (QI)  Teams — all  at  various  stages  in  the  problem-solving  pro¬ 
cess.  Three  were  ad-hoc  efforts  rechartered  as  QI  Teams  by  the  Quality  Steering  Team  the  summer  of  1989.  An  additional 
three  were  chartered  last  summer,  based  on  Regionwide  problems  identified  by  the  Regional  Leadership  Team. 

After  several  months  of  regrouping,  learning  a  new  problem-solving  process,  and  using  the  process  to  focus  on  a  problem, 
all  three  of  the  initial  QI  Teams  have  selected  possible  solutions  to  implement.  One  team  will  attempt  to  implement  a  tool 
Regionwide  and  two  teams  will  test  their  selected  solution  on  pilot  units  over  the  next  year. 

learned  a  lot  from  the  first  three  teams  we  chartered,"  noted  Total  Quality  Management  Director  Dave  Blackner. 

"When  we  started,  we  didn't  know  what  a  mentor  was,  what  problem-solving  process  to  use,  or  how  to  give  the  Teams  clear 
charters.  We  really  have  to  commend  the  first  QI  Teams  for  pulling  together  and  coming  up  with  worthwhile  projects — in 
spite  of  the  Quality  Steering  Team  leaning  on  them."  QI  Team  reports  follow: 


OBJECTIVE:  Look  at  underlying  causes  of  “poor  quality  NEPA  work”  and  recommend,  test  and  implement  solutions. 


MEMBERS:  Team  Leader  Dave  Hoefer,  Planning  and  Budget;  Carl  Linderman,  Pocatello  Ranger  District,  Caribou;  Paul  Oakes,  Caribou; 
Chip  Sibbernsen,  Logan  Ranger  District,  Wasatch-Cache;  Clyde  Thompson,  Evanston  Ranger  District,  Wasatch-Cache  (now  transferred  to 
Flagstaff  Ranger  District,  Coconino).  Mentor:  Susan  Giannettino,  Wasatch-Cache. 


STAGE:  Test  and  implement. 

The  NEPA  Team  brainstormed  75  potential  problems,  pared  those  to  4  and  defined  the  problem  as:  “Inadequate  customer  involvement 
throughout  the  NEPA  process  is  a  major  contributor  to  appeals,  unexpected  resistance  to  decisions  and/or  unsupportable  decisions!’  The 
Team  ultimately  agreed  that  the  root  cause  is  that  “scoping  and  consensus  building  have  not  become  a  way  of  life  in  Region  4!’  That 
statement  encompasses  29  potential  root  causes  revealed  after  canvassing  concerned  people,  in  and  out  of  the  Forest  Service. 

The  selected  solution:  “Institutionalize  dialogue  with  customers  throughout  the  NEPA  process!’  The  Team  evaluated  several  training  ap¬ 
proaches  and  opted  for  “Systematic  Development  of  Informed  Consent”  (SDIC)  developed  by  Hans  Bleiker.  The  workshop,  which  offers 
a  management  strategy  for  consensus  building  and  a  broad  range  of  public  involvement  tools,  addressed  23  of  the  root  causes  identified 
by  the  NEPA  Team.  SDIC  is  widely  used  throughout  the  Forest  Service,  especially  by  the  Bridger-Teton  National  Forest  and  Regions  8 
and  2. 


The  team  will  test  SDIC  effectiveness  on  a  willing  Forest  which  has  a  moderate  amount  of  conflict  and  a  full  spectrum  of  resource  uses. 
The  Forest  leadership  team,  key  specialists  and  Ranger  District  principal  assistants  will  receive  the  training.  Customer  interviews  and  other 
assessment  techniques  will  be  used  to  establish  a  “baseline  level  of  customer  dialogue”  which  will  be  monitored  a  year  before  the  training. 
Post-training  customer  dialogue  will  also  be  monitored  to  determine  SDIC  effects.  The  Planning  and  Budget  Staff  in  the  Regional  Office 
will  provide  about  $17,000  (an  estimate)  to  cover  the  training  and  monitoring  costs.  If  SDIC  helps  “institutionalize  dialogue”  it  will  be 
implemented  Regionwide. 


Page  5 . 


TQM 


OBJECTIVE:  To  identify  approaches  and  techniques  to  assist  in  identifying  and  negotiating  customer  expectations. 


MEMBERS:  Team  Leader  George  Morris,  Manti-La  Sal;  Mark  Van  Every,  Dixie;  Floyd  Bartlett,  Ashley;  Linda  McKinney,  Moab  Ranger 
District,  Manti-La  Sal;  Lee  Bennett,  Monticello  Ranger  District,  Manti-La  Sal;  and  Carol  Nunn,  Spanish  Fork  Ranger  District,  Uinta. 
Mentor  (emeritus):  Stan  Tixier. 


STAGE:  The  Team  has  chosen  to  test  the  six-step  service  management  approach  developed  by  Lawrence  Bradford  and  Karl  Albrecht, 
authors  of  “The  Service  Advantagel’  The  six  steps  include:  (1)  identifying  customers,  (2)  prioritizing  customers,  (3)  primary  customer’s 
report  card,  (4)  identifying  moments  of  truth,  (5)  creating  a  cycle  of  service  and  (6)  adding  value  to  the  quality  of  service. 

Initially,  the  Team  put  together  a  matrix  of  various  customer  feedback  methods  ranging  from  focus  groups  to  800  phone  numbers. 

However,  George  Morris  was  so  intrigued  by  “The  Service  Advantage!’  he  arranged  for  Bradford  to  meet  with  his  team  members  and  speak 
to  the  Regional  Quality  Steering  Team  in  February.  After  that,  “we  changed  our  whole  approach;’  Morris  noted.  Instead  of  just  assuming 
certain  methods  will  provide  customer  feedback,  Bradford’s  approach  provides  ways  to  prioritize  customers  based  on  an  organization’s 
vision/mission  and  to  reevaluate  organizational  structures  and  services  through  the  eyes  of  the  customer. 


OBJECTIVE:  To  provide  the  Quality  Steering  Team  with  a  prioritized  listing,  description  and  recommended  action  on  selected  problem 
statements  which  are  barriers  to  strengthening  on-the-ground  administration. 


MEMBERS:  Team  Leader  Gary  Sayer,  Toiyabe;  John  Butt,  Planning  and  Budget,  Regional  Office;  Ray  Hall,  Range  and  Watershed, 
Regional  Office;  Jim  Lancaster,  Emmett  Ranger  District,  Boise;  Hugh  Thompson,  Dixie.  Mentor:  Bob  Joslin. 


STAGE:  This  problem,  nicknamed  the  “Large  Elephant”  by  the  Leadership  Team,  actually  was  a  cluster  of  related  problems  including  the 
need  to  get  more  money  to  the  ground,  better  integrate  resource  management  and  improve  resource  quality. 

The  Regional  Quality  Steering  Team  (QST)  commissioned  the  Team  to  “chunk  the  elephant  up”  into  manageable  “bites”  (improvement 
projects)  and  six  problems  emerged:  (1)  information  overload  (too  much  time  at  the  DG  and  NOT  on  the  ground!),  (2)  lack  of  conform¬ 
ance  to  standards  and  guidelines,  (3)  lack  of  integrated  resource  management,  (4)  lack  of  priority  setting,  (5)  unknown  total  costs  of  needed 
on-the  ground  work  and  (6)  funding  and  organizational  structure. 

QST  agreed  the  focus  should  be  on  four  areas  Regionwide:  (1)  effective  use  of  CEO,  (2)  proliferation  of  reports,  (3)  integrated  resource 
management  and  (4)  funding  and  organizational  structure.  No  teams  have  been  commissioned  yet.  QST  also  agreed  that  priority-setting 
problems  could  be  addressed  at  the  Forest  level  through  use  of  Positive  Action  Requests  and  training  on  Congruent  Decisionmaking. 

Team  Mentor  Joslin  said  it  probably  would  have  been  easier  to  take  on  and  solve  smaller  parts  of  the  problems.  However,  he  said  the  pro¬ 
ject  has  created  more  awareness  of  the  problems — which  will  focus  more  attention  on  the  ground  and  on  the  customer. 


NEW  ORGANIZATIONAL 
BEHAVIOR  TEAM 

OBJECTIVE:  Create  a  strategy  for  a  work  environment  which  results  in  empowered  people  who,  in  meeting  customer  expectations,  are  ac¬ 
tively  challenging  systems,  innovating,  creating  and  taking  responsible  risks. 

MEMBERS:  Team  Leader  Laura  Ferguson,  State  and  Private  Forestry,  Regional  Office;  Joe  Bistryski,  Duchesne  Ranger  District,  Ashley; 

Tom  Contreras,  Pine  Valley  Ranger  District,  Dixie;  Dave  Holland,  State  and  Private  Forestry,  Regional  Office;  H.  C.  McChesney,  Weiser 
Ranger  District,  Payette;  Craig  Nathe,  Evanston  Ranger  District,  Wasatch-Cache;  and  Donna  Smedley,  Bridger-Teton.  Mentor:  Clair  Beasley. 

STAGE:  Problem  identification.  The  Team  has  brainstormed  a  number  of  organizational  problems.  Team  Leader  Laura  Ferguson  noted  that 
the  very  diverse  Team  came  up  with  widely  varying  problems  which  fell  into  four  broad  areas.  Members  are  currently  selecting  a  key  prob¬ 
lem  to  address  through  the  quality  improvement  process.  Ferguson  said  her  rough  analysis  of  the  information  indicates  some  general  trends: 
Political— the  organization  has  less  money  and  less  public  credibility  to  accomplish  a  greater  task;  Ecological— more  public  emphasis  on 
biodiversity;  Communication— the  public  demands  that  we  communicate  with  intelligence  NOW;  Internal  social-economic— employees  are 
demanding  consideration  based  on  their  individual  needs  (economic,  participation,  quality  of  life,  dual  career)  rather  than  one-size-fits-all 
personnel  and  management  policies. 

“We  had  by  far  the  greatest  interest  in  and  agreement  on  the  employee  problem!’  Ferguson  said.  “Our  structures  and  policies  don’t  fit  our 
diverse  employees.  They  won’t  automatically  accept  moving  to  economically  disadvantaged  situations.  The  workforce  of  the  future  will 
negotiate!’ 

Page  6 


TQM 


OBJECTIVE:  Gain  recognition  of  the  key  role  Frontliners  play  in  quality  customer  service  and  satisfaction. 

Z 

MEMBERS:  Team  Leader  Erin  O’Connor-Henry,  Bridgeport  Ranger  District,  Toiyabe;  Marian  Boulter  and  Marie  Davis,  Targhee;  Marian 
Buenger,  Salmon;  Barbara  Burgan,  Ogden  Ranger  District,  Wasatch-Cache;  Carolyn  Smith,  Lost  River  Ranger  District,  Challis;  Marilyn 
Merrill,  Caribou;  Roma  Nelson,  Sawtooth  NRA;  and  Georgia  Higgins,  Toiyabe. 

§ 

STAGE:  Test  and  implement. 

s 

The  Team’s  goal  was  to  improve  customer  service  by  improving  the  environment  and  support  for  Frontliners — another  name  for  customer 

rv 

service  providers.  The  Team  chose  to  focus  on  the  problem  of  managing  and  grading  Information  Receptionists,  Clerks  and  visitor  center 

personnel  as  clerical  support,  even  though  their  work  is  mostly  serving  Forest  visitors.  The  Team’s  premise  is  that  customer  service  will  im- 

LL 

prove  when  Frontliners  are  recognized,  managed  and  rewarded  for  the  job  they  do.  Team  efforts  keyed  on  two  aspects  of  the  problem:  (1) 

Z 

improving  classification  and  reporting  opportunities  and  (2)  identifying  more  training. 

C3C 

As  a  test  solution  to  the  grade  and  series  problem,  the  Team  researched  and  developed  a  position  description  for  a  GS-1001-5  Information 

UJ 

Assistant  which  takes  the  Frontliner  out  of  the  clerical  series  and  offers  a  modest  career  ladder.  With  help  from  Lee  Stewart  and  George 

Fishel,  Personnel  Management  Team  Advisers,  the  GS-1001-5  position  description  has  been  classified  and  adapted  on  several  Forests  in  the 

Region.  The  team  also  developed  alternative  organizational  structures  to  improve  the  Frontliner  job. 

■■BP* 

To  address  the  second  problem,  the  Team  surveyed  Frontliners  about  training  needs  and  then  developed  descriptions  of  needed  modules  in 

basic,  on-going,  and  advanced  customer  service  training. 

cc 

In  February,  the  Regional  Quality  Steering  Team  concurred  with  the  Team’s  recommendation  to  test  the  proposed  solution  to  the  classifica- 

tion  and  organizational  problem.  Pilot  units  were  to  be  identified  at  the  April  Team  meeting  and  new  members  will  be  recruited  from  dif¬ 
ferent  levels  of  the  organization  to  fill  Team  vacancies  and  to  provide  new  perspectives  and  skills  for  implementing  the  proposals. 

The  training  proposal  has  been  turned  over  to  the  Continuing  Education,  Public  Affairs,  and  Recreation  and  Lands  Staffs  in  the  Regional 
Office  for  inclusion  in  a  pilot  customer  service  training  project. 

OBJECTIVE:  Help  our  people  provide  the  public  with  current,  accurate  information. 


MEMBERS:  Barbara  Todd,  Sawtooth;  Lome  Wiggins,  Public  Affairs,  Regional  Office;  Andy  Godfrey,  Fishlake;  and  Patty  Jacobsen, 
Payette. 


STAGE:  The  Frontliner  Team  assembled  an  information  packet  for  all  fieldgoing  vehicles. 


CONTENTS  OF  INFORMATION  PACKETS 
•Forest  travel  maps 
•Forest  firewood  maps 
•State  hunting  and  fishing  regulations 
•Forest  Facts  and  Information  booklets 
•Forest  visitor  maps 
•Local  lodging  guides 
•Scratch  paper  and  pens 

•Brochures  about  local  National  Forest  attractions 

•Forest  mini  maps 

•MISTIX  information 

•Forest  campground  information 

•Guides  to  surrounding  attractions 

•State  highway  maps 


Team  members  receive  award  for  their  Frontliner  efforts;  (I.  to  r.) 
Patty  Jacobsen,  Barbara  Todd,  Lorrie  Wiggins,  and  Andy  Godfrey. 


The  information  packet  was  tested  on  the  Fishlake,  Payette,  and  Sawtooth  National  Forests  during  the  1990  field  season.  At  the  start  of  the 
field  season.  Team  members  trained  Frontliners  and  District  employees  on  how  to  use  the  packets.  Frontliners  then  kept  the  packet  informa¬ 
tion  current  throughout  the  summer. 


Sensing  indicated  that  packet-using  units  improved  their  customer  service  by  70  percent  during  the  test  period.  Frontliner  Team  members 
are  now  conducting  a  marketing  campaign  to  place  the  information  packets  on  all  Region  4  Forests.  The  real  evidence  of  success  will  be 
when  customers  are  better  served  on  all  Forests  in  our  Region  through  the  use  of  the  information  packets. 


Writeups  on  this  page  were  contributed  by  Pally  Jacobsen,  Payette  National  Forest,  and  Marian  Boulter,  Targhee  National  Forest. 


Page  7 


RO  NEWS 


h-i 

< 

z 

o 

a 


Smessage 


You’ll  first  be  struck  by  its 

vibrant  colors  and  the  legend 
about  the  cover  design — this 
March  Report  of  the  USDA  Forest 
Service  Task  Force  on  Work  Force 
Diversity  as  it  then  guides  us 
“Toward  a  Multicultural  Organiza¬ 
tion!’  The  30-page  Report  should  be 
read  by  all  employees  for  an  under¬ 
standing  of  the  Forest  Service  expec¬ 
tation.  It  affects  you  and  your 
future. 


The  Forest  Service  first  established  a 
Civil  Rights  policy  in  1976.  The  in¬ 
tervening  years  have  been  fraught 
with  resistance,  backlash  and  frustra¬ 
tion,  offset  by  employees  who  cham¬ 
pion  equality  as  the  right  and  moral 
way.  We  have  had  15  years  to  adjust, 
now  it  is  time  to  get  on  with  it. 
Significant  changes  must  be  made 
nationally  and  in  Region  4  to  care 
for  the  National  Forests  with  a 
diverse  workforce  and  for  a  diverse 
public. 

In  discussing  the  “Overall  Strategy” 
on  page  iii,  the  new  Diversity  Report 
says,  “We  are  asking  for  major 
changes  in  the  ways  in  which  people 
in  the  Forest  Service  interact  with 
one  another,  see  themselves,  and  ac¬ 
complish  their  jobs.  For  many 
employees,  the  changes  will  be  un¬ 
comfortable!’  It  troubles  me  that  in¬ 
stitutionalizing  diversity  causes  some 
employees  to  feel  threatened.  I  know 
they  feel  that  with  diversity  their  ad¬ 


vancement  potential  will  be  stifled. 

I  want  to  repeat  what  I  said  in  last 
month’s  Intermountain  Reporter.  “I 
believe  all  employees  deserve  a  work 
environment  that  allows  them  to 
contribute  all  that  they  are  capable 
of.  This  means  that  work  en¬ 
vironments  should  be  free  of  at¬ 
titudes  that  create  barriers  based  on 
race,  sex,  religion,  national  origin  or 
age!’  Those  are  my  parameters  for 
diversity. 

But,  there  is  some  urgency.  We  are 
not  the  only  agency  that  must  diver¬ 
sify  its  workforce  and  competition  in 
the  labor  market  will  be  keen.  It  is 
also  anticipated  that  there  will  be  a 
wave  of  retirements  in  the  mid-1990’s 
which  offers  a  grand  opportunity  for 
making  diversity  happen. 

Region  4  has  made  progress  in  the 
last  few  years  and  we  should  be 
proud  of  that  progress.  For  instance 
in  FY  1990,  our  total  workforce  was 
2,201.  Of  that,  3.4  percent  were 
minority  females,  3.6  percent  were 
minority  males  and  33.0  were  non¬ 
minority  females — all  of  which 
reflect  increases  over  FY  1989.  Also, 
the  average  grade  of  the  non¬ 
minority  male  increased  from  8.0  in 
FY  1989  to  10.1  in  FY  1990.  That 
said,  let  me  reassure  you  that  our 
focus  will  not  be  on  impresssive  sup¬ 
porting  numbers  but  on  management 
that  fills  jobs  with  those  who  are 
trained,  experienced  and  educated. 

In  addition  to  increasing  our  women 
and  minority  populations,  our  direc¬ 
tion  in  FY  1991  and  beyond  will  be 
to  show  equal  progress  in  retention, 
equity,  morale  and  achieving  a 
rewarding,  enjoyable  climate  in  the 
workplace.  TQM  will  play  a  major 
role  in  achieving  those  goals. 

I  like  what  Gregory  C.  Smith,  Public 
Affairs  Officer,  wrote  in  his  editorial 
in  the  March  issue  of  the  Bridger- 
Teton  National  Forest  News:  “Diver¬ 
sification  is  about  more  than  racial 
and  sexual  integration  of  the 


workforce,  it  is  a  recognition  of  new 
ideas,  thinking,  changes  in  attitudes 
and  changes  in  customs  and 
traditions — a  recognition  of  cultural 
and  racial  differences,  and  a 
workforce  more  reflective  of  the 
community.  .  .  .  Diversity  brings 
about  a  more  competitive  and 
educated  workforce!’ 

Caribou  Forest  Supervisor  Paul 
Nordwall  said,  “Diverse  points  of 
view  are  as  valuable  as  diverse  in¬ 
terests  and  backgrounds.  If  all  of 
my  staff,  my  advisors,  say  and  think 
the  same  way,  I  only  need  one!’ 

The  following  is  from  another 
Forest  that  has  spoken  out  in  sup¬ 
port  of  diversity  and  that  matches 
action  with  its  words.  In  John 
Inman’s  absence,  Lars  Lind  wrote 
the  Forest  Supervisor’s  message  for 
the  March  issue  of  the  Humboldt 
Hummer,  the  Forest’s  newletter.  Us¬ 
ing  the  current  war  as  an  analogy  of 
different  perspectives  and  values,  he 
says,  “Old  habits  are  hard  to 
break.  .  .  .  We  can  hire  a  diverse 
workforce  and  we  can  involve  a 
diverse  group  of  customers  in  our 
decisions,  but  we  won’t  have  diversi¬ 
ty  until  we  train  ourselves  to  under¬ 
stand  the  real  value  of  diversity.  We 
must  learn  to  listen,  not  just  hear. 
We  must  learn  to  accept  different 
viewpoints  as  that,  different,  not 
wrong.  ...  We  must  recognize 
change  as  essential,  not  a  threat  and 
we  must  avoid  the  warm  fuzzies  of 
our  comfort  zones.  .  .  !’ 

As  Lars  points  out,  the  diversified 
workforce  issue  is  on  each  of  our 
doorsteps  and,  individually,  it’s  up 
to  us  to  either  deal  with  it  as  a 
millstone  or  as  an  enriching  factor 
in  our  lives. 


Gray 


Page  8 


RO  NEWS 


^Craig  and  Shane 
Belliston  of  the 
Engineering  Staff 
in  the  Regional 
Office  experiment 
with  the  Head¬ 
master.  It  is 
equipped  with  a 
small  pneumatic 
switch  which  is 
activated  by  puff¬ 
ing  and  sipping 
and  allows  com¬ 
plete  in¬ 
dependence  in 
running  any  type 
of  program  used 
by  that  computer. 


CCCD  is  changing  that.  At  no  personal  cost,  CCCD  provides  a  place 
for  all  those  with  disabilities,  their  families,  teachers  and  other  profes¬ 
sionals  to  come  and  preview  the  latest  in  computer  technology.  CCCD 
will  work  to  match  individual  needs  with  the  best  hardware  and  soft¬ 
ware  available.  They  also  provide  one-on-one  support,  computer-related 
workshops  and  a  resource  center. 


Funding  comes  from  various  sources — federal,  state,  and  private — 
and  volunteers  are  always  needed  to  assist  at  the  Center. 


Craig  Boogaard,  Executive  Director  of  CCCD,  visited  the 
Regional  Office  in  November  with  samples  of  computer 
hardware  and  software  available  for  people  with 
disabilities.  A  few  of  the  displays  are 
described  here. 


Few  things  in  life  are  free,  but  the  services  of  the  Computer  Center 
for  Citizens  with  Disabilities  (CCCD)  are.  Located  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  the  Center  was  founded  in  1988  to  help  people  with 
disabilities  “achieve  their  highest  potential  through  the  use  of  com¬ 
puters!’  In  this  age  of  automation,  using  a  computer  is  a  must  for 
most  people,  at  home  or  on  the  job.  People  with  disabilities  are  no  ex¬ 
ception;  yet,  until  fairly  recently,  not  much  computer  hardware  and 
software  was  available  (or  accessible)  to  them. 


^Craig  Boogaard 
holds  the  Darci 
Joystick  which  is  nam¬ 
ed  after  the  grand¬ 
daughter  of  the 
engineer  who  designed 
it.  Darci  was  born 
without  arms  or  legs 
but  was  able  to  use  a 
stump  to  guide  the 
joystick  and  run  com¬ 
puter  programs  and 
type. 


*/l  mini  keyboard  is 
for  those  with  limited 
range.  The  letters  most 
frequently  used  are  on 
the  center  of  the 
keyboard. 


*y4  keyboard  cover  made  of  clear  plastic  allows  the  user  to  rest  his/her 
hand  on  top  of  it  and  move  fingers  to  the  proper  key. 


A  complete  line  of  specialized  computers  and  accessories 
can  be  seen  at  the  Center.  As  with  most  software  packages, 
updates  are  frequent,  but  Craig  mentioned  some  companies 
provide  free  updates.  For  more  information  on  available 
equipment  and  programs,  call  the  Center  (phone  number: 
(801)  321-5770). 


^The  word  predictor  is  a  software  feature  which  accelerates  the  speed  of 
the  person  typing.  A  memory  file  contains  common  phrases  and  words  and 
will  finish  a  word  or  sentence  in  fewer  strikes.  This  is  especially  useful  for 
technical  writers  whose  documents  often  include  long  words. 


(Photos  by  Jim  Stone) 


Sue  Arnott 

Public  Affairs  Specialist 
Regional  Office 


Page  9 


RO  NEWS 


“Funding  in  1992  could  be  $50  million.’’ 


STATE  AND  PRIVATE  FORESTRY 


The  1990  Farm  Bill  includes  a  section  on  Rural 

Revitalization  through  Forestry  which  authorizes  up 
to  $50  million  in  1992.  Wes  Harvey,  Rural  Develop¬ 
ment  Program  Manager,  stated,  “That’s  over  12  times  the 
current  funding!’ 

In  anticipation  of  the  dramatic  increase  in  the  Rural 
Development  Program,  Wes  established  a  “Focus  Group”  to 
put  together  a  strategy  to  deal  most  effectively  with  the  an¬ 
ticipated  growth  in  the  program.  The  Focus  Group  includes 
federal  agencies  such  as  the  Soil  Conservation  Service,  Ex¬ 
tension  Service  and  Forests,  state  forestry  organizations, 
state  economic  development  agencies,  county  government 
and  private  citizens. 


Laura  Ferguson,  Director  of  State  and  Private  Forestry, 
welcomes  the  Rural  Development  Focus  Group  to  the 
strategy  meeting. 


DEVELOPS  REGIONAL  RURAL 
DEVELOPMENT  STRATEGY 


The  Group  identified  these  issues: 


(1)  Coordination  of  federal,  state  and  local  rural  develop¬ 
ment  efforts  to  avoid  duplications. 

(2)  Lack  of  sufficient  financial  resources  to  implement  an 
expanded  Rural  Development  Program. 

(3)  The  proud  and  independent  nature  of  rural  western 
Americans. 

The  Group  developed  these  high  priority  strategies  to  ad¬ 
dress  the  identified  issues: 

(1)  Support  the  concept  of  Rural  Development  Councils 
in  each  of  the  states  in  the  Intermountain  Region. 

(2)  Provide  a  central  information  source  for  anyone  in¬ 
terested  in  rural  development.  The  Rural  Development 
Councils  would  serve  in  this  information-sharing  role  as 
well  as  taking  on  the  coordination  function. 

(3)  Capitalize  on  the  strengths  and  traditions  of  rural 
western  Americans. 

RICHARD  PINE 
Public  Affairs  Specialist 


Federal,  state,  county  and  rural  development  officials  meet  to  chart  the 
course  for  an  expanded  Rural  Development  Program. 


Page  10 


CENTENNIAL 

EARLY  STATE  FORESTRY  EFFORTS 


(This  is  mini-history  9  in  the  on-going  series  prepared  by  the  Washington 
Office  History  Unit  to  launch  the  1991  Centennial.  The  mini-histories 
cover  the  origins  of  the  National  Forest  System  and  its  evolution.) 


State  forestry  efforts  began 
earlier  than  federal  efforts 
but  they  tended  to  be 
sporadic  and  not  as  in¬ 
fluential.  Between  1868 
and  1872,  laws  offering 
bounties  or  tax  breaks  for 
tree  planting  were  passed 
in  seven  states  (Minnesota, 
Wisconsin,  Iowa,  Missouri, 
Dakota,  Nebraska,  and 
Kansas).  This  movement 
no  doubt  influenced 
passage  of  the  Timber 
Culture  Act  (1873),  which 
donated  160  acres  of 
public  land  to  anyone  who 
planted  40  acres  of  trees 
that  lived  for  10  years. 
The  intent  of  the  Act  was 
to  encourage  tree  planting 
in  the  Great  Plains.  Three 
years  later  (1876),  Con¬ 
gress  provided  $2,000  for 
an  expert  to  study  and 
report  on  forest  conditions 
in  the  United  States.  That 
expert  was  Franklin  B. 
Hough  who  was  appointed 
to  a  post  created  in  the 
Department  of  Agriculture. 
His  office  was  the  begin¬ 
ning  of  the  Forest  Service. 


Federal  forest  reserves,  however, 
were  not  authorized  until  the 
Forest  Reserve  Act  (1891)  repeal¬ 
ed  the  Timber  Culture  Act  (in  part  to 
stop  fraudulent  homestead  claims) 
and  empowered  the  President  to  set 
aside  public  lands  for  forest  reserves. 
By  then,  there  was  already  an  existing 
forest  reserve  in  New  York.  The  crea¬ 
tion  of  the  Adirondack  and  Catskill 
Preserve  in  1885  illustrates  the 
overlap  of  state  and  federal  forest 
conservation  during  that  period. 
Charles  Sprague  Sargent  headed  the 
state  committee  that,  after  surveying 
the  site,  recommended  it  become  a 
preserve  under  state  legislation 
developed  by  Bernhard  E.  Fernow. 
Two  other  figures  linked  with  Federal 
Forest  Reserve  creation  were  Grover 
Cleveland  and  Theodore  Roosevelt, 
who  were  New  York  governors  before 
going  to  the  White  House. 

Concern  over  the  impact  of  forest 
destruction  in  forested  or  once- 
forested  areas  of  the  Nation  was  a 
public  issue  in  the  1870’s.  For  exam¬ 
ple,  a  section  of  the  constitution  of 
the  new  State  of  Colorado  (1876) 
urged  passage  of  laws  “to  prevent  the 
destruction  of,  and  to  keep  in  good 
preservation,  the  forests  upon  the 
lands  of  the  state  .  .  !’ 

The  first  state  forestry  efforts  were 
usually  aimed  at  providing  an  inven¬ 
tory  to  assess  the  extent  of  forest 
destruction  on  public  lands.  Thus  it 
was  that  some  state  forestry  commis¬ 
sions  were  established  to  investigate 
forestry  conditions  before  the  1876 
national  study  funded  by  Congress. 
For  example,  Wisconsin  started  an  in¬ 
quiry  of  forest  conditions  in  1867  and 
Maine  in  1869.  The  first  actual  state 
forestry  “association”  was  established 
in  Minnesota  in  1876.  By  1885, 
California  had  a  state  forestry  board 
and,  in  1888,  the  state  legislature 
asked  Congress  to  cease  disposing  of 
public  lands  in  the  state,  and,  instead, 
establish  forest  reserves  to  protect 
watersheds. 


These  early  state  forestry  commis¬ 
sions  were  often  limited  to  studies  of 
forest  conditions  and  were  disbanded 
once  that  work  was  done.  The  waxing 
and  waning  of  state  forestry  organiza¬ 
tions  makes  for  an  uneven  history. 

The  consistent  feature  about  state 
forestry  is  that  its  spread  often 
followed  the  timber  industry.  Active 
and  enduring  programs  were  started 
in  New  York  and  Pennsylvania  as 
part  of  the  early  forest  conservation 
movement  in  the  Northeast,  site  of 
the  first  lumber  boom.  At  the  turn  of 
the  century,  the  rapid  harvesting  of 
Great  Lakes  pine  forests  spurred  state 
forestry  commissions  in  Michigan  and 
Wisconsin,  and  fear  of  fire  danger  in 
logged-over  areas  (the  Hinckley  forest 
fire  in  1894  took  814  lives  in 
Minnesota)  led  them  to  focus  on  fire 
protection. 

After  timber  harvesting  peaked  in  the 
Great  Lakes,  activity  moved  to  the 
southern  pine  belt,  from  Virginia  to 
Texas.  State  forestry  there  followed 
the  same  pattern  of  developing  after 
the  peak  years  of  timber  harvesting 
were  over.  The  first  southern  state 
forestry  unit  was  in  Louisiana  in 
1904,  the  last  in  Arkansas  in  1931.  By 
now,  forest  owners  were  alert  to  the 
need  for  state  forestry  efforts  to  pro¬ 
tect  the  last  remaining  old-growth 
timber  stands  of  the  west  coast, 
although  their  concern  was  mainly 
for  fire  protection.  From  their  begin¬ 
ning  in  the  late  1860’s,  state  forestry 
commissions  operated  in  many  states 
but  often  faded  away  for  lack  of 
funding  or  state  forests  to  administer. 
Thus  by  1900,  only  nine  states  had 
active  forestry  associations,  usually 
with  little  money  or  trained  staff.  It 
was  the  federal  forestry  agency  that 
now  played  the  major  role  in  forestry 
nationally.  Under  the  direction  of 
Bernhard  Fernow,  the  Division  of 
Forestry  assisted  state  forestry  pro¬ 
grams.  Gifford  Pinchot  replaced 
Fernow  in  1898  and  the  effort  con¬ 
tinued  to  make  progress.  By  1910,  25 
states  had  some  type  of  forestry 


Page  11 


CENTENNIAL 


organization,  although  the  major  im¬ 
petus  was  still  fire  protection  rather 
than  the  larger  practice  of  forestry 
advocated  by  the  Forest  Service,  in¬ 
cluding  reforestation. 

Nebraska  was  one  state  where  the 
new  forestry  practices  advocated  by 
Fernow  were  practiced.  To  encourage 
scientific  forestry  and  obtain  data  on 
actual  forest  conditions  in  the  days 
before  the  National  Forest  System 
existed,  Fernow  and  his  staff  urged 
forestry  research  programs  at  land 
grant  colleges  and  experiment  sta¬ 
tions.  Correspondence  with  botantist 
Charles  E.  Bessey  of  the  University 
of  Nebraska  was  the  impetus  for 
establishing  forestry  in  the  prairie- 
plains  region.  Seedling  stock  was 
planted  in  1890  in  the  sand  hills  of 
Nebraska.  These  seedlings  (mainly 
pines)  were  raised  in  the  new  Forest 
Service  Bessey  Nursery — a  pioneer  in 
nursery  techniques  for  large-scale 
seedling  production.  Forest  Service 
employee  Carlos  G.  Bates,  a  leader  in 
plains  forestry,  did  experiments  there 
in  1909. 


Cooperative  forestry,  an  effort  be¬ 
tween  the  Forest  Service  and  the 
States,  continued  under  Pinchot  and, 
in  1911,  Section  Two  of  the  Weeks 
Act  further  encouraged  formation  of 
state  forestry  agencies.  The  newly 
created  (1908)  Forest  Service  State 
and  Private  Forestry  became  the 
leader  in  federal  efforts  to  assist  state 
forestry  programs.  A  mission  that 
continues. 


Source:  American  Forestry:  A  History  of  Na¬ 
tional,  State,  <£  Private  Cooperation.  William 
G.  Robbins.  1985.  University  of  Nebraska 
Press. 


He  who  never  walks  except  where  he  sees  other’s  tracks  wUl  mt^e  m  dBeoyerm, 


Page  12 


CENTENNIAL 


EVENTS  TO 
INCLUDE  IN 
VACATION 
PLANS 

This  list  will  continue  to  be  updated. 
More  information  can  be  obtained  from 
Forest  or  Regional  Centennial 
Coordinators. 


REGION  4 

'A'  REGIONAL  OFFICE 

Barn  Dance  and  Hayride,  June  15,  Ben 
Lomond  Golf  Course. 

'k  ASHLEY  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Centennial  Trail  Ride  and  Evening 
Barbecue,  June  22,  Carter  Military  Road. 

“Gifford  Pinchot,  From  the  Other  Side” 
(Gary  Hines’  performance),  August  27, 
Vernal,  Utah. 

Display  of  Ashley  Scrapbook,  Summer/Fall, 
Ail  Forest  Offices. 

Swett  Ranch  Picnic,  (presentation  of  oral 
history  transcriptions  by  USU),  May  29, 
Swett  Ranch  Historic  Site,  Flaming  Gorge 
NRA. 

Yellowpine  Trail  Dedication,  July  13, 
Duchesne  Ranger  District. 

Red  Canyon  Visitor  Center  Rededication, 
July  25,  Red  Canyon  Visitor  Center,  Flaming 
Gorge  NRA. 

k  BOISE  NATIONAL  FOREST 

National  Forests  in  Idaho  Centennial 
Celebration  Week,  June  8-14, 

Billboards  announcing  the  Centennial,  June 
20,  Boise,  Idaho. 

Open  Houses,  June  8-14,  District  Offices. 

Centennial  Exhibits,  Boise  Square  and 
Airport. 

k  BRIDGER-TETON 
NATIONAL  FOREST 

Old  West  Days  Parade,  May  25,  Jackson, 
Wyoming. 

Pony  Express  Ride,  June  25,  Jackson, 
Wyoming. 

Frontier  Days  with  Forest  Service  mules, 
June  27,  Jackson,  Wyoming. 

ir  CHALLIS  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Challis  National  Forest  Reunion,  for  Forest 
Service  employees  and  retirees,  June  14, 
Challis,  Idaho. 

Custer  County  Fair  Parade,  July  4,  Challis, 
Idaho. 


■k  DIXIE  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Dixie  National  Forest  Reunion,  (a  Dutch 
oven  cooking  contest.  Ranger  skill  competi¬ 
tion,  campfire  program,  wagon  rides,  and 
games),  August  24,  King  Creek 
Campground. 

■k  PAYETTE  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Weiser  Fiddle  Festival,  June,  Weiser,  Idaho. 

Old  Ranger  District  Office  Restoration, 

June,  Council,  Idaho. 

Planting  of  Centennial  Grove,  June,  McCall, 
Idaho. 

Historical  Audio  Cassette  Tours,  June,  New 
Meadows,  Idaho. 

'k  SALMON  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Lewis  &  Clark  Backcountry  Byway  Dedica¬ 
tion,  June  15. 

Salmon  River  Days  Parade,  Cobalt  Mule 
String,  July  4. 

McGruder  Mail:  Float  and  Pack  Trip  (low  im¬ 
pact  camping),  July  29-August  2. 

k  TARGHEE  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Centennial  Pony  Express  Run  with  special 
cancellations  at  post  offices  in  the  five 
Forests  on  the  old  Yellowstone  Reserve 
lands.  There  will  be  16  cancels. 

•k  TOIYABE  NATIONAL  FOREST 

Centennial  Pack  Trips,  June,  On  Districts. 

'^WASATCH-CACHE 
NATIONAL  FOREST 

Days  of  47  Parade,  July  24,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

Centennial  Rendezvous,  June  28-29,  Monte 
Cristo  Campground  in  Ogden  Canyon. 

k  REGION  1 

National  Wildland  Firefighter  Dedication, 
May  8,  Aerial  Fire  Depot,  Missoula, 

Montana. 

History  Conference  on  National  Forest 
Systems  Origins,  June  20-22,  Missoula, 
Montana. 

Teddy  Roosevelt  Memorial  Highway  Dedica¬ 
tion,  July  10,  Marias  Pass,  Montana. 

k  REGION  2 

First  Federal  Nursery  Celebration,  June  15, 
Bessey,  Nebraska. 

Pony  Express— Presidential  Proclamation, 
June  22-29,  Yellowstone  Area. 

Partners  in  Conservation  Forum,  June  27, 
Cody,  Wyoming. 

Centennial  Birthday  Party,  June  28,  Cody, 
Wyoming. 


Boone  and  Crockett/AFA  Centennial  Ban¬ 
quet,  June  28,  Cody,  Wyoming. 

First  Forest  Reserve  Rededication,  June  29, 
Wapiti  Ranger  Station. 

Conservation  Transportation  Show,  June  29, 
Cody,  Wyoming. 

Living  History  Program,  June  29,  Cody, 
Wyoming. 

National  Centennial  Packing  Competition, 
June  30,  Cody,  Wyoming. 

Rodeo  and  Parades— Max  Peterson,  Mar¬ 
shall,  July  2-4,  Cody,  Wyoming. 

National  Forest  Service  Reunion— 
Employees/Retirees,  Sept.  29-Oct.2,  Glen- 
wood  Springs,  Colorado. 

k  REGION  3 

Civilian  Conservation  Corps/Forest  Service 
Retirees  Reunion,  May  6-10,  Quemado,  New 
Mexico. 

Southwestern  Centennial  Symposium,  Oct. 
31-Nov.  2,  Flagstaff,  Arizona. 

k  REGION  5 

Smith  River  National  Recreation  Area, 
Scenic  Byway  Dedication,  May  10-11,  Six 
Rivers  National  Forest, 

Bay-to-Breakers  Run  in  Centennial  T-shirts, 
May  19,  San  Francisco,  California. 

Centennial  Showcase,  San  Bernardino  Na¬ 
tional  Forest,  June,  San  Bernardino 
Museum. 

k  REGION  6 

Wallowa-Whitman  National  Forest  Reunion, 
July  24-31. 

k  REGION  8 

Centennial  Week  in  the  Southern  Region, 
June  9-15. 

Cradle  of  Forestry  Celebration— Hikes, 
Tours,  June  14-15,  Cradle  and  Biltmore. 

Joint  National  Forest  Systems  and  NPA 
Barbecue,  June  14,  Cradle  of  Forestry. 

Forest  Festival  Day,  June  15,  Cradle  of 
Forestry. 

k  REGION  9 

Conference:  Stewardship  and  the  Centen¬ 
nial,  Fall  1990,  Grey  Towers,  Pennsylvania. 

k  NATIONWIDE 

Centennial  Reception  by  AFA  &  National 
Wildlife  Federation,  May  17,  Washington, 
D.C. 

Open  House  National  Showcase,  June 
10-16,  Every  Forest  Service  location. 


k  CENTENNIAL  COORDINATORS 

Laird  Robinson:  Northern  Region; 
406-329-3434;  FTS  585-3434;  DG:R01A. 

Harva  Lou  Buchanan:  Rocky  Mountain 
Region;  303-236-9640;  FTS  776-9640; 
DG:R02A. 

Coy  Jemmett:  Southwestern  Region; 
Prescott  NF;  602445-1762;  FTS  761-3191; 
DG:R03F07A. 

Wallace  Shiverdecker:  Intermountain 
Region;  801-625-5354;  FTS  586-5354; 
DG:R04A. 

Linda  Lux:  Pacific  Southwest  Region; 
415-705-2819;  FTS  465-2819;  DG:R05A. 

Norm  Hesseldahl:  Pacific  Northwest 
Region;  503-750-7016;  DG:R06F12A. 

Kent  Schneider:  Southern  Region; 
404-347-4250;  FTS  257-4250;  DG:R08A, 

Lindalou  Hobmeier:  Eastern  Region; 
414-297-3693;  FTS  362-3326;  DG:R09A. 

Gary  Lidholm:  Alaska  Region; 
907-586-8849;  FTS  871-8849;  DG:R10A. 

Richard  Klade:  Intermountain  Station; 
801-625-5436;  FTS  586-5436;  DG:S22A. 

Mike  Prouty:  North  Central  Station; 
612-649-5276;  FTS  777-5276;  DG:S23A. 

Carol  Severance:  Northeastern  Station; 
215-975-4105;  FTS  489-4105;  DG:S24A. 

Anne  Harrison:  Pacific  Southwest  Sta¬ 
tion;  415-486-3615;  FTS  449-3615; 
DG:S27A. 

Rick  Fletcher:  Rocky  Mountain  Station; 
303-498-1278;  FTS  323-1278;  DG:S28A. 

Carol  Ferguson:  Southeastern  Station; 
704-257-4389;  DG:S29A. 

Marta  Knowiton:  Southern  Station; 
504-589-3935;  FTS  682-3935;  DG:S30A. 

Debra  Lietzman:  Forest  Products 
Laboratory;  608-321-9239;  FTS  384-5239; 
DG:S32A. 

Richard  Woodfin:  Pacific  Northwest  Sta¬ 
tion;  503-326-5645;  FTS  423-5645; 
DG:R06A, 


Centennial  traveling  is  as 
easy  as  dialing 
800-927-1054  (a  Budget 
Travel  phone  number)  and 
specifying  travel  on 
Centennial  Airlines.  The 
Cradle  of  Forestry 
Interpretive  Association 
has  arranged  reduced  air 
fares  for  employees  or 
non-employees  to  many  of 
the  above  events.  Budget 
Travel  has  the  list  of  ap¬ 
proved  Centennial  events. 


CENTENNIAL 


ACCESSORIZE  THE  OUTFIT 


O: 


44  Id  style”  Forest  Service  uni- 

1  forms  will  be  “high  style” 
at  this  year’s  Centennial 
events;  but  the  reproductions  won’t  be 
complete  unless  an  exact  copy  of  the 
original  1906  badge  is  in  place. 

When  Salmon  Forest  Supervisor  John 
Burns  spotted  an  original  badge  in 
Chief  Dale  Robertson’s  office  display, 
he  saw  an  opportunity  to  contribute  to 
the  historical  authenticity  of  the 
reproduced  uniforms.  The  Chief  was 
persuaded  to  loan  the  original  badge  to 
John  to  use  as  a  pattern. 

The  Salmon  National  Forest  then  ar¬ 
ranged  for  Western  Heritage  (which  is 


also  an  outlet  for  the  uniform)  to 
reproduce  the  original  National  Forest 
badge.  It  is  similar  to  the  current 
badge,  only  much  larger. 

The  reproduced  badges  must  be  han¬ 
dled  as  sensitive  property.  To  order  the 
badge,  contact  Kent  Fuellenbach  on  the 
Salmon  National  Forest  (phone: 
208-756-5145;  DG  address:  K.Fuellen- 
bach:R04F13A).  The  Salmon  Forest  is 
paying  for  the  first  50  badges,  an¬ 
ticipating  that  another  unit  will  pick  up 
the  tab  for  the  “next  batch!’  Because 
the  number  of  badges  is  limited, 
preference  will  be  given  to  units  that 
have  ordered  the  “old  style”  uniforms. 
The  badges  will  available  in  May. 


OTHER  CENTENNIAL  ITEMS 

RUBBER  STAMPS 

Rubber  Stamps,  Inc.,  30  W.  24th  Street,  New  York,  NY  10010,  Phone  (212)  675-1180,  will  make  self- 
inking  Centennial  logo  rubber  stamps  for  $4  each  with  no  setup  charge  (under  GSA  contract 
GSO2F1078A).  Delivery  time  is  about  2  weeks.  Shipping  is  free  on  orders  over  $25.  This  information 
comes  from  Mindy  Martin,  Centennial  Coordinator,  Rogue  River  National  Forest. 

SCARVES 

Avis  E.  Newmack  said  the  Employees  Association  on  the  Lewis  and  Clark  National  Forest  in  Region  1 
(DG:  R01F15A)  is  making  scarves  available  for  $4  each.  There  is  green  imprint  on  gold,  white  on  navy, 
white  on  kelly  green,  white  on  powder  blue  and  white  on  turquoise. 


NOSTALGIC  SLEEPOVER 


Western  Heritage  Company, 

manufacturer  and  supplier  of 
Forest  Service  gift  items  since 
1976,  has  completed  a  replica  of  a  For¬ 
est  Service  Guard  Station  to  commemo¬ 
rate  the  National  Forest  Centennial.  It’s 
named  the  Beaver  Creek  Guard  Station 
after  the  valley  where  it  is  located.  The 
24’  X  28’  structure,  made  of  logs  from 
the  Medicine  Bow  National  Forest,  is 
located  10  miles  southeast  of  Encamp¬ 
ment,  Wyoming,  on  the  Hayden  Ranger 
District.  It  has  “tree”  window  shutters, 
a  Forest  Service  doorknocker,  a  pole 
that  flies  the  old  Forest  Service  flag  and 


is  furnished  with  Forest  Service  china 
and  other  replica  Forest  Serviee 
furnishings. 

Pat  Lynch,  owner  of  Western  Heritage 
Company,  said,  “This  cabin  will  be 
available  at  no  charge  to  any  Forest 
Service  individual  or  fam-ily  who  needs 
overnight  lodging  when  traveling 
through  this  part  of  the  country.  Hope¬ 
fully,  they’ll  also  visit  the  growing  Forest 
Service  displays  at  the  Grand  Encamp¬ 
ment  Museum!’  He  said,  "  We  wanted 
to  celebrate  this  important  Centennial 
in  some  lasting,  tangible  way 


while  expressing  our  deep  affection  and 
appreciation  to  the  Forest  Service  fami¬ 
ly,  which  we  still  feel  a  part  of.  This 
seemed  to  be  a  good  way  to  do  that!’ 
Lynch  was  with  the  Forest  Service  for 
many  years,  serving  in  District  Ranger 
jobs  and  other  positions  in  Oregon, 
Colorado,  Wyoming  and  Alaska. 

Those  interested  in  reserving  the  cabin 
should  call  Western  Heritage  Company 
at  (307)  327-5702,  P.  O.  Box  455,  En¬ 
campment,  WY  82325. 


Page  14 


FOREST  NEWS 


TURKEY-On  the  Wild  Side 


A  Rio-Grande  wild  turkey. 


A  $6,000  partnership  between  the 
Uinta  National  Forest,  Utah  Divi¬ 
sion  of  Wildlife  Resources,  Utah 
Wild  Titrkey  Federation  and  the 
Utah  Sportsmen  Alliance  brought 
about  this  release  of  59  wild 
turkeys  in  January.  (Photos  by  Dea  Nelson.) 


Hold  the  cranberries  and  the 

dressing.  You  won’t  be  roasting 
these  particular  turkeys  for 
several  years  to  come. 

In  January,  59  Rio-Grande  wild  turkeys 
found  a  new  home  on  the  Uinta  Na¬ 
tional  Forest.  The  46  hens  and  13  toms 
were  crated  and  transported  by  truck 
from  Kansas  to  the  release  point  in  the 
Diamond  Fork  and  Hobble  Creek  Can¬ 
yons  on  the  Spanish  Fork  Ranger 
District.  The  turkeys  got  a  clean  bill  of 
health  before  their  journey  to  Utah. 

According  to  Dea  Nelson,  Uinta  Na¬ 
tional  Forest  Biologist,  “The  streamside 
areas  with  their  diversity  of  trees, 
shrubs,  and  herbaceous  plants  are 
perfect  turkey  habitat  and  provide  ex¬ 
cellent  public  viewing.  Canyon  bottoms 
are  thick  with  cottonwood  trees  which 
make  good  roosts  and  are  close  to  travel 
routes.  The  oakbrush  and  acorns  in  the 
canyons  are  a  good  food  supply  for 


the  turkeys!’  Other  food  sources  are  in¬ 
sects  found  on  the  surface  of  the  soil 
under  dead  leaves,  seeds  of  grasses  and 
fleshy  berries. 

There  are  no  native  wild  turkeys  in 
Utah.  All  have  been  inported,  beginning 
in  the  1950’s.  The  early  transplants  were 
the  Merriam  variety  but  “these  are  Rio- 
Grande  with  a  little  bit  of  Eastern  breed 
in  them!’  according  to  Stan  Mitchell, 
President  of  the  Utah  Wild  Turkey 
Federation.  “You  can  tell  by  the  rust 
color  in  their  feathers!’ 

The  first  turkey  hunt  in  Utah  was  in 
1963.  It  will  be  2  or  3  years  be¬ 
fore  the  recently  transplanted  birds  will 
be  hunted,  depending  on  how  fast  the 
population  grows,  which  depends  to  a 
large  degree  on  their  being  unmolested. 
To  assure  their  protection,  the  Utah 
Wild  Turkey  Federation  and  the  Utah 
Sportsman  Alliance  are  both  offering 
$100  for  information  leading  to  the  ar¬ 


rest  and  conviction  of  anyone  poaching 
wild  turkeys  in  Utah.  Poaching  activity 
can  be  reported  by  calling  800-662-3337. 
To  monitor  the  location  of  the  birds, 
they  were  banded,  and  some  received 
radio  collars,  before  they  were  released. 

“This  turkey  transplant  is  a  good  exam¬ 
ple  of  the  benefits  of  the  Utah  Fish  and 
Wildlife  Initiative,”  according  to  Bevan 
Killpack,  Coordinator  for  the  six  Na¬ 
tional  Forests  in  Utah.  In  the  next  year, 
the  Initiative  will  focus  mainly  on  pro¬ 
jects  on  the  ground  throughout  Utah — 
projects  similar  to  the  wild  turkey 
transplant. 

As  part  of  the  Utah  Wildlife  Initiative, 
a  Wild  Turkey  Committee  is  working  to 
make  the  public  more  aware  of  oppor¬ 
tunities  for  viewing  wild  turkeys, 
obtain  additional  transplants  and 
improve  habitat  on  public  lands. 


The  Forest  Service  has  made  a  substandai  national  investment  in  wild  turkeys  through  “Making  Tracks.”  “Making  li^ks” 
is  a  Forest  Service  program  to  emphasize  wild  turkey  management  in  cooperation  with  the  National  Wild  Turkey  Fodeia- 
tion»  state  wildlife  agencies,  conservation  groups,  and  individuals.  The  goal  is  better  wild  turkey  habitats,  heaKhy  popula" 
lions,  more  recreational  opportunities,  and  strong  partnerships  between  agencies  and  turkey  lovers.  You  can  “Make 
Tracks”  t^  becmning  amember  of  the  National  Wild  Turkey  Federation. 


Page  15 


FOREST  NEWS 


A  Head  Start  student  from  Weiser,  Idaho,  in¬ 
vestigates  part  of  a  tree  (often  called  a  tree 
cookie). 


Using  award-winning  environmental 
education  programs,  such  as  Project 
Learning  Tree  and  Project  Wild, 
employees  of  the  Payette  National 
Forest  and  teachers  throughout  the 
area  have  been  helping  students 
become  more  aware  of  their  presence 
within  and  responsibility  for  the  en¬ 
vironment.  Together,  teachers, 
students  and  resource  professionals 
are  exploring  resource  issues  and 
learning  to  make  decisions  based  on 
facts  rather  than  emotion. 

“The  future  of  good  public  relations  in 
the  Forest  Service  hinges  on  en¬ 
vironmental  education,”  Payette  Forest 
Supervisor  Sonny  LaSalle  said  in 
strong  support  of  the  Forest’s  en¬ 
vironmental  education  outreach  ef¬ 
forts.  “Environmental  education  is 
critical  as  our  customers  learn  to  pro¬ 
cess  information  and  form  opinions.” 


A  workshop  objective  is  to  ensure  that 
environmental  education  reaches  non- 
traditional  audiences  to  interest  them 
in  being  involved  with  the  land  plan¬ 
ning  process  and  in  pursuing  land 
management  careers.  Specially  train¬ 
ed  facilitators  will  help  participants 
refine  skills  needed  to  better  under¬ 
stand  and  communicate  with  the 
ethnically  diverse  and  differently 
abled. 

With  strong,  intensive  environmental 
education  programs,  we  can  help  ed¬ 
ucators,  students,  and  people  in  our 
communities  to  understand  land  man¬ 
agement  policies  and  the  challenges 
of  balancing  multiple  uses. 


BIOGRAPHY  OF  A  TREE  COOKIE 

(Written  and  performed  ‘RAP  style’  by  four  Weiser  area 
teachers  after  just  3  hours  of  their  first  session  of  Project 
Tree  Learning. 

85  years  ago  from  today, 

A  north  wind  blew  and  I  was  here  to  stay. 

15  years,  sunny  skies,  no  drought. 

Life  was  great  without  a  doubt. 

Insects  bittin,  not  a  cloud  in  sight, 

20  long  years  of  painful  blight. 

Midlife  crisis  when  I  broke  my  arms. 

Took  away  my  beauty  and  my  charms. 

Nearly  over  the  hill  when  the  beetle  bit. 

And  woe  is  me,  blue  stain  fungus  hit. 
Settling  in  comfort,  I  then  trembled  at  the 
sound. 

Would  you  believe  its  me  here  on  the 
ground? 


In  this  spirit,  the  Payette  and  Boise 
Forests  are  sponsoring  the  “Heartland 
Peaks  Workshop”  with  Boise  State 
University,  Idaho  Society  for  Energy 
and  Environmental  Education,  Idaho 
Department  of  Education  and  a  long 
list  of  partners.  The  5-day  en¬ 
vironmental  education  workshop  will 
be  in  July  near  Cascade  and  McCall. 
There  educators  and  natural  resource 
professionals  will  learn  how  to  infuse 
environmental  education  into  their  pro¬ 
grams  and  to  conduct  effective  ac¬ 
tivities  which  involve  people  in  learn¬ 
ing  about  their  natural  environment. 


Teachers  build 
the  layers  of  a 
tree  during  a  re¬ 
cent  Project 
Learning  Tree 
session  on  the 
Payette  Forest. 


Page  16 


FOREST  NEWS 

YELLOWPINE 


he  scent  of  vanilla,  the  scream  of 
a  hawk,  the  roughness  of  pine 
bark,  the  whisper  of  wind 
through  aspen  leaves  and  the  gurgle  of 
running  water  are  happenings  that  will 
excite  all  the  senses  as  hikers  travel  the 
Yellowpine  Nature  Trail. 

Trailbuilding  began  on  May  19,  1990,  on 
the  Duchesne  Ranger  District  of  the 
Ashley  National  Forest.  Through  a  part¬ 
nership  agreement  with  Chevron  USA, 
Inc.,  about  150  Chevron  employees, 
families  and  friends  participated  in  2 
full  days  of  trail  work,  environmental 
education  and  festivities.  With  members 
of  the  National  Campers  and  Hikers 
Association  and  Forest  Service 
volunteers,  the  crew  that  cleared  a  trail 
through  trees  just  south  of  Yellowpine 
Campground  was  some  200  strong. 

Chevron  Public  Affairs  Manager  Hugh 
Dickey  and  District  Ranger  Joe 
Bistryski,  with  Brent  Hanchett,  the 
Ashley’s  Landscape  Architect,  organized 
trail  work  using  the  Incident  Command 
System  to  effectively  use  the  multitude 


of  skills  offered  by  the  volunteers. 

After  receiving  a  safety  briefing,  tools, 
and  safety  equipment,  four  divisions 
(each  with  two  crews  of  five  to  six  peo¬ 
ple)  worked  through  the  day  clearing 
brush,  pulling  stumps,  trimming 
branches,  and  leveling  the  trail.  Even 
young  children  helped  clear  a  short  sec¬ 
tion  of  trail  under  the  guidance  of  Jen¬ 
nifer  the  Clown  (Sue  Wight,  Recreation 
Forester),  Sharon  Ross  (a  physically- 
challenged  member  of  the  National 
Campers  and  Hikers  Association),  and 
Kathy  Garcia  (Miss  Wheelchair  Ameri¬ 
ca).  It  was  physically  demanding  work 
for  all. 

Forest  Service  Trail  Foreman  Ray  Blaney 
worked  with  Cory  McKee  and  several 
members  of  his  Troop  in  constructing  a 
wooden  beam  bridge  across  a  small 
creek  bed.  At  the  end  of  the  day,  the 
bridge  was  done  and  so  was  Cory’s 
Eagle  Scout  project. 

That  day,  workers  cleared  the  entire  trail 
with  one  quarter  of  the  trail  ready  for 
paving.  Despite  the  use  of  sharp  tools 


and  heavy  hfting,  no  injuries  were 
reported.  As  workers  walked  the  trail 
with  their  families,  they  pointed  with 
pride  to  the  dirt  they  had  moved  or  the 
stump  they  chopped  out.  Chevron  pro¬ 
vided  dinner  and  a  clogging  exhibition 
rounded  out  the  day. 

Work  on  the  trail  continued  throughout 
the  summer  and  fall.  Forest  Service 
crews  prepared  the  remainder  for  pav¬ 
ing  and  poured  asphalt.  A  second 
bridge  was  built  as  an  Eagle  Scout  pro¬ 
ject  by  Eric  Heaps  and  his  Troop.  The 
final  cost  of  the  trail  was  $30,000. 
Chevron  picked  up  more  than  $15,000 
of  the  tab. 

Trail  opening  and  dedication  ceremo¬ 
nies  are  planned  for  mid-June.  All  who 
worked  so  hard  to  make  this  trail  are 
invited  to  participate  in  the  weekend 
event.  Equally  welcome  are  those  who 
want  to  enjoy  an  early  camping  trip 
and  see  the  fine  work  accomplished  at 
Yellowpine. 

Gayne  Sears 
Ashley  National  Forest 


Page  17 


SPECIAL  INTEREST 


.dcittc 


When  the  “Friends  of  Smokey 
Bear”  hot  air  balloon  ascends,  to  a 
level  just  a  little  lower  than  the 
angels,  it  will  be  high  enough  for 
thousands  of  people  to  see  this  fire 
prevention  message  as  it  travels 
across  the  United  States.  A  non¬ 
profit  organization,  with  Regional 
Forester  Dave  Jolly  as  its  leader, 
has  been  chartered  to  manage  the 
project.  The  goal  is  to  have  the 
balloon  in  the  air  by  October.  The 
cost  to  construct  the  balloon  is 


approximately  $80,000  to  be  funded 
primarily  by  individual  and  corporate 
donations.  The  Balloon  Board  has 
developed  the  following  recognition  of 
donators:  Friend  -  any  amount;  Crew  - 
$10;  Crew  Chief  -  $25;  First  Officer  - 
$50,  and  Commander  -  $100.  You  can 
contact  the  Friends  about  donations 
or  obtain  information  by  writing  or 
telephoning:  Friends  of  Smokey  Bear 
Balloon,  RO.  Box  27800,  Suite  169, 
Albuquerque,  NM  87125  (Phone:  505 
260-5570). 


When 


Older 

Adults 


Some  older  adults  don’t 
see  or  hear  as  well  as 
younger  workers;  so  when 
you  train  them; 

PRINT  written  materials 
with  a  bolder  typeface  and 
make  the  type  at  least  12 
points. 

^DON’T  PRINT  training 
materials  on  glossy  stock 
or  on  low-contrast  colors, 
such  as  blue  or  green. 

IMPOST  NOTICES  and 
training  materials  at  eye 
level,  so  people  who  wear 
bifocals  won’t  have  to 
strain  to  read  them. 

t/"  MAKE  SURE  trailers 
speak  clearly  and 
distinctly. 

^SUGGEST  that  older 
workers  sit  or  stand  close 
to  the  trainer  so  they  can 
hear  better  and  see  the 
speaker’s  face  clearly  (but 
do  it  diplomatically,  so  you 
won’t  Insult  them.) 

u^  GET  RID  of  distracting 
background  sounds, 
especially  high-pitched 
ones,  which  can  interfere 
with  listening. 


Scarce:  Cattterioe  O.  Fyock, 
writmg  in  HB  News,  Society  for 
Humen  Resouice 


Page  18 


SPECIAL  INTEREST 


a  Hcmd^- 
Count  on 
Service  Support 


This  is  a  story  that  knows  no  boundaries.  More  to  the  point,  it’s  a  story  that  knows  no  Forest  boun¬ 
daries.  It's  a  story  about  employees  who  care  and  show  concern.  It's  a  story  about  employees  who 
found  that  no  matter  where  they  are.  Forest  Service  friends  will  rally  in  their  behalf. 


As  they  returned  from  the  Region  4  Symposium  in  St.  George 
last  December,  four  Ashley  National  Forest  employees  were 
critically  injured  in  an  automobile  accident  in  a  canyon  eight 
miles  from  Provo,  Utah.  Fortunately,  that  meant  medical  help 
was  available  within  minutes  from  the  Utah  Valley  Regional 
Medical  Center  where  Ross  Catron,  Nancy  Jarvie,  and  Bruce 
Slover  (Flaming  Gorge  Ranger  District)  and  Rowdy  Muir 
(Duchesne  Ranger  District)  were  transported. 

Cindy  Swanson,  Acting  Forest  Supervisor  of  the  Uinta  Na¬ 
tional  Forest,  headquartered  in  Provo,  was  notified  of  the  ac¬ 
cident  by  Orem  City  Police.  She  and  Helen  Woods,  Secretary 
to  the  Uinta  Forest  Supervisor,  met  the  ambulances  at  the 
hospital.  Rowdy  Muir  said,  “I  really  appreciated  Cindy’s  time 
and  effort  in  calling  our  relatives  to  let  them  know  what  had 
happened  and  making  arrangements  so  they  would  have  motel 
rooms  when  they  arrived!’ 

After  the  accident  victims  were  admitted,  Cindy  put  a  lot  of 
energy  into  keeping  track  of  the  tests  they  were  having  and 
where  they  were  at  any  given  time — so  she  could  quickly  give 
this  information  to  the  families  when  they  arrived  at  the 
hospital.  Bruce  Slover  said,  “Cindy  seemed  to  be  ever  present, 
arranging  things  and  providing  moral  support  to  us  and  our 
families.  She  was  a  ‘local’  person  we  could  count  on!’ 

When  Cindy  was  first  notified  of  the  accident,  she  contacted 
Dave  Griffel,  Uinta  Forest  Law  Enforcement  Officer.  Aided 
by  Orem  City’s  thorough  documentation,  Dave  quickly  com¬ 
pleted  the  investigation  of  the  accident  with  the  needed  photo¬ 
graphs,  statements  and  reports.  Bruce  Slover  stated  that  he 
was  treated  so  well  he  felt  like  a  member  of  the  “Uinta  Fami- 
1>^’  “The  Uinta  has  a  lot  of  fine  people  they  can  be  proud  of!’ 


Employees  on  the  Uinta  quickly  got  involved.  Ross  Catron 
was  impressed  and  reassured  by  how  fast  people  were  there  to 
help  .  .  .  and  by  the  number  of  folks.  Some  were  his  friends 
and  some  he  didn’t  know.  Personal  belongings  left  at  the  ac¬ 
cident  site  appeared  at  the  hospital  before  the  victims  even 
had  time  to  worry  about  them.  And  the  Uinta’s  caring  at¬ 
titude  continued  as  the  families  arrived. 

Among  the  many  visitors  who  went  out  of  their  way  to  help 
were  Don  Nebeker,  then  Forest  Supervisor  of  the  Uinta  Na¬ 
tional  Forest,  and  Bob  Easton,  Pleasant  Grove  District  Ranger. 

Visits  from  the  Uinta  folks  didn’t  stop  after  the  initial 
emergency  was  over.  Caring  efforts  just  kept  showing  up. 

All  of  the  employees  except  Nancy  Jarvie  were  able  to  leave 
the  hospital  within  a  short  time.  Nancy  has  had  a  long  strug¬ 
gle  with  hospitalization,  surgeries  and  therapy,  but  the  caring 
and  concern  have  continued.  On  Nancy’s  birthday  in 
January,  Cindy  enlisted  some  drafting  talent  for  a  huge  birth¬ 
day  card  and  personally  delivered  it.  Also,  efforts  were  made 
to  provide  Nancy  DG  capability  to  aid  in  her  rehabilitation. 
At  this  time,  Nancy  is  still  in  Provo  receiving  out-patient 
therapy  but  she  hopes  to  return  home  soon. 

It  is  impossible  to  name  everyone  who  helped,  but  Rowdy  ex¬ 
pressed  the  feeling  of  all  Ashley  employees  about  Uinta 
Forest  employees,  “  .  .  .  they  will  hold  a  special  place  in  my 
heart  for  the  things  they  did!’ 

Diane  Augustus 
Information  Assistant 
Ashley  National  Forest 


—THIS  AND  THAT — 

•Nearly  three-quarters  of  black  Americans  (72  percent)  prefer  to  be  called  black,  according  to  a 
study  conducted  by  the  Joint  Center  for  Political  and  Economic  Studies.  Other  preferences  were 
African-American  (f 5  percent),  Afro-American  (3  percent)  and  Negro  2  percent)^ 

•  The  movie  ^‘■Dances  with  Wolves"  was  filmed  on  the  Buff alo  Gap  National  Grassland  and  the 
Spear  fish  Ranger  District  of  the  Black  Mills  National  Forest. 


Page  19 


SPECIAL  INTEREST 


NO  DEPOSIT,  NO  RETDRN 

By  I.  S.  (Stan)  Tixier 

(Recently  retired  Intermountain  Regional  Forester) 


RECYCLING 

REPORTABLES 

tates  95%  USS  ENERGY  to  ceate 
an  aluminum  can  from  recycled  material 
than  from  new  aluminum.  The  finished 
product^  if  made  from  100%  aluminum 
products,  will  be  as  pure  as  a  can  made 
from  new  aluminum. 

It  fates  75%  LESS  ENERGY  to  create 
paper  produ^  horn  recycled  material. 

The  average  office  worker  throws 
away  more  than  175  lbs.  of  high-grade 
office  paper  each  year,  as  well  as  other 
material  that  can  te  recycled.* 

17  trees  and  2.5  barrels  of  oil  are 
sawed  from  every  ton  of  paper  recycled.* 

Recycling  1  aluminum  can  saves 
enough  energy  to  nin  a  television  set 
for  3  hours,* 

There  is  a  recycling  hotline  for  the 
Philadelphia  area.  Does  your  county 
have  one? 

P-*  40-50%  of  the  materials  currently  in¬ 
undating  landfills  is  paper. 

The  paper  recycling  process  in¬ 
volves  cutting  the  fibers  of  an  old  pro¬ 
duct  to  create  a  new  product.  The 
higher  the  grade  of  paper,  the  longer  its 
fibers  and  tte  more  times  it  can  be 
recovered. 

Clear  glass  is  entirely  reusable  as  a 
primary  product.  Colored  glass  is  less 
marketable  because  it  must  be  hand 
separated.  Reveled  glass  Is  reus^le  as 
flooilng  matenal  and  for  road  filling  and 
surfacing. 

p^lnk  is  a  contaminant,  ftewsprint  is 
only  recoverable  if  de-inted.  There  are 
150  de^inldng  plants  worldwide. 


'Intormittien  taken  fyoiri  the  Penrisyivanti 
Department  of  Emifomnentat  Research 
brochure,  "Recycling  Goes  to  Work  ana 
Schoo1.*> 

The  eatfra  arUde  was  printed  in  the  October 
1990  issue  of  the  Southwestern  Region  fiews. 


Litterbugs  have  trash  to  scatter 
Far  and  wide  without  concern, 

This  slogan  gives  them  ammunition 
No  deposit,  no  return. 

They  toss  it  out  on  streets  and  highways 
Roads  and  trails,  at  every  turn, 
There  isn't  any  need  to  save  it. 

No  deposit,  no  return. 

You  see  it  in  the  parks  and  forests 
Trees  and  bushes,  grass  and  fern. 
You  see  it  in  the  lakes  and  rivers. 

No  deposit,  no  return. 

Pop-tops  rip  the  fishes'  innards, 
Plastic  ci-gar  tips  don't  bum. 

Rusty  cans  and  broken  bottles. 

No  deposit,  no  return. 

And  styrofoam  for  cups  and  burgers 
From  fast-food  joint  to  coffe  urn. 

All  designed  for  our  convenience. 

No  deposit,  no  return. 

Some  stuff  Hkely  lasts  forever. 

Won't  decompose  or  rot  or  bum. 


What  we  need  is  self-destructing 
No  deposit,  no  return. 

Ultimate  in  space-age  litter. 

Even  NASA  can  affirm 
Astronauts  leave  cluttered  moonscape. 
No  deposit,  no  return. 

Woodsy  Owl  proclaims  his  message. 
He  and  Smokey  Bear  in  turn. 
Drown  your  campfire,  don't  pollute  with 
No  deposit,  no  return. 

Still  it  flies  from  car  and  camper. 

It's  enough  to  make  you  yearn 
For  good  old  days  before  we  heard  of 
No  deposit,  no  return. 

There's  incentive  to  recycle, 
Al-um-in-um  can  help  us  earn 
Handy  cash  to  break  the  habit. 

No  deposit,  no  return. 

But  we  seldom  take  the  trouble. 
What  a  shame,  when  will  we  leam 
The  opposite  of  conservation 
Is  no  deposit,  no  return. 


Page  20 


PERSONNEL 


Making  a 
Difference 

L/r/ng  the  past  year,  the 
Intermountain  Civil  Rights 
Action  Team  (CRAT)  reintroduc¬ 
ed  the  Regional  program  to 


TRAVELING  STAFF  AND  FOREST  PLAQUES 


Annual  Forest  Civil  Rights  Award  -  Payette  National  Forest 

The  Payette  Forest  developed  a  Forest  Day  Care  Program  and  is  actively  involved 
in  the  Shadow  Program,  an  outreach  effort  which  gives  students  the  opportunity 
to  accompany  Forest  employees  as  they  do  their  jobs.  The  Forest  has  initiated  a 
program  to  remove  barriers,  increase  access  and  create  employment  opportunities 
for  people  with  disabilities.  The  Forest  Fire  Branch  was  instrumental  in  coor¬ 
dinating  the  Forest’s  annual  Civil  Rights  Day,  which  gave  employees  a  chance  to 
increase  their  understanding  of  diversity,  recruitment,  and  career  development. 
The  Forest  shows  outstanding  commitment  to  reaching  the  goals  in  the  Forest 
Diversity  Action  Plan.  Recruitment  efforts  and  placement  of  several  women  and 
minorities  on  the  Forest  attest  to  that  commitment. 


recognize  employees  for  their 
outstanding  efforts  in  Civil 
Rights.  Accomplishments  come 
from  all  levels  of  our  organiza¬ 
tion  and  the  number  of  nomina- 


Annual  Regional  Office  Staff  Civil  Rights  Award  -  Engineering  Leadership  Group 

The  Engineering  Leadership  Group  has  designed  a  program  for  accomplishing  its 
diversity  goals  and  objectives.  Engineering  published  a  “Diversity  Issues  and  Op¬ 
portunities”  Report.  Through  networking  and  individual  actions,  the  staff  has 
significantly  increased  its  number  of  women  and  minorities.  There  is  optimism 
that  the  trend  will  continue  as  Engineering  employees  actively  proceed  in  their 
outreach  efforts. 


INDIVIDUAL  AND  GROUP  AWARDS 


tions  illustrates  the  commitment 
to  Civil  Rights  in  the  Region. 
Nominations  included  entire 
Forests  and  Regional  Office 
staffs,  as  well  as  small  groups 
and  individuals.  Several  award 
categories  were  needed  to  deal 
with  the  many  diverse 
nominations. 

These  award  recipients  received 
special  recognition  at  the 
Region  4  Symposium  in  St. 
George  for  their  exemplary 
positive  attitude  and 
achievements  in  Civil  Rights. 


Bridger-Teton  National  Forest  Civil  Rights  Action  Team  (Forest  Plaque) 

“Action”  was  its  motto  as  the  Bridger-Teton  Civil  Rights  Action  Team  developed 
the  Forest’s  Civil  Rights  Program.  Diversity  and  pluralism  in  the  workplace  were 
central  themes  of  the  Forest’s  1995  Work  Diversity  Plan.  The  Team  also  designed 
an  area  for  displaying  special  emphasis  observances,  such  as  Black  History  Month 
and  National  Hispanic  Week.  Team  members  have  actively  participated  in 
outreach  and  recruitment  efforts,  resulting  in  positive  steps  towards  reaching  the 
Forest’s  diversity  goals. 

CLAIR  C  BEASLEY,  Deputy  Regional  Forester-Administration  (Certificate  of 
Merit  with  Cash  Award) 

Clair  has  aggressively  and  unceasingly  dedicated  much  effort  toward  strengthening 
the  Intermountain  Region  by  acquiring  an  integrated  and  balanced  workforce.  He 
has  been  instrumental  in  recruiting  highly  qualified  women  and  minorities  for  va¬ 
cant  Administrative  Staff  Director  positions.  As  Deputy  Regional  Forester,  he  is  in 
a  position  to  motivate  and  encourage  those  who  report  to  him  by  setting  a  good 
example  in  recruiting  and  utilizing  employees  for  a  diverse  and  healthy  workforce. 
Clair’s  continued  support  of  the  Civil  Rights  Action  Team  is  very  much 
appreciated. 

JACK  W.  McDonald,  Regional  Office,  Planning  and  Budget  (Certificate  of 
Merit  with  Cash  Award) 

Jack  is  recognized  for  his  positive  attitude  towards  Civil  Rights.  He 
supports  career  development  of  his  employees  and  gives  them  outstanding  oppor¬ 
tunities  for  experiences  and  training.  He  believes  in  advancing  women  and 
minorities  and  takes  positive  steps  to  accomplish  that  goal. 

ROBERT  H.  MARTIN,  Salmon  National  Forest  -  (Certificate  of  Merit  with  Cash 
Award) 

Bob  has  done  outstanding  work  with  the  Shoshone-Bannock  Indian  Tribe  in 
Idaho.  His  significant  efforts  resulted  in  the  Salmon  National  Forest  hiring  over 
20  Native  Americans  through  the  TERO  Program,  JTPA,  and  regular  seasonal 
hiring.  Through  Bob’s  efforts  to  motivate  and  encourage,  several  of  these 
employees  have  decided  to  pursue  an  education  in  natural  resources.  Bob  is  sen¬ 
sitive  and  caring,  as  evidenced  by  the  large  number  of  seasonals  who  return  to  the 
Forest  year  after  year. 


Page  21 


RICKY  E.  BRAZELL,  Ashley  National  Forest  -  (Certificate  of  Merit  with  Cash 
Award) 

Ricky  has  been  very  active  in  Civil  Rights  for  many  years.  He  championed  the 
establishment  of  an  Ashley  National  Forest  special  emphasis  program  for  people 
with  disabilities.  He  organized  a  field  trip  for  those  people,  involving  several  federal 
and  state  agencies  in  the  effort.  He  established  a  network  to  further  facilitate  in¬ 
creased  access  and  opportunities  for  people  with  disabilities. 

RICHARD  M.  FOSTER,  Payette  National  Forest  (Certificate  of  Merit  with  Cash 
Award) 

Dick  has  been  instrumental  in  planning  and  implementing  a  successful  affirmative 
action  program  on  the  New  Meadows  Ranger  District.  This  program  has  allowed 
several  temporary  employees  to  acquire  valuable  professional  skills  that  significantly 
increase  their  chances  for  permanent  employment.  Dick  has  actively  recruited  and 
hired  qualified  affirmative  action  candidates,  thereby  contributing  to  the  Forest’s 
diversity  goals. 

All  of  this  year’s  nominees  were  recognized  with  a  Certificate  of  Appreciation: 

•Joe  Bistryski,  Clark  Tucker,  and  Darrell  Johnson,  Ashley  National  Forest 

•Frank  Carroll,  Boise  National  Forest 

•Cliff  Stephenson,  Boise  National  Forest 

•Ed  Allen,  Payette  National  Forest 

•Jeanne  Felmy,  Payette  National  Forest 

•Tronnie  Loseke,  Jimmie  Ruska,  A1  Becker,  Pam  Gardner,  Jim  Arp,  and 
Dave  LeClair,  Payette  National  Forest 

•Fire  Branch,  Payette  National  Forest 
•McCall  Smokejumpers,  Payette  National  Forest 
•Rich  Rodgers,  Salmon  National  Forest 

•Zeke  Zimmerman,  John  Borton,  Brent  Thomas,  and  Bob  Wildman,  Sawtooth 
National  Forest 

•Robert  Easton,  Uinta  National  Forest 
•Jon  Leonard,  Regional  Office  Engineering 

Ed  Waldapfel,  Sawtooth  National  Forest,  and  Frank  Carroll,  Boise  National  Forest, 
received  Certificates  of  Merit  and  cash  awards  for  their  contributions  to  a 
“package”  to  make  all  Regional  employees  aware  that  CRAT  is  “Making  a  Dif¬ 
ference”  in  their  lives  and  in  their  ability  to  better  serve  the  public. 

Ed  and  Frank  assisted  with  a  brochure  and  presentation  outline  and  produced  a 
video  which  are  the  components  of  the  “awareness  package!’  There  was  a  three-fold 
objective  in  producing  the  video: 

1.  To  increase  awareness  about  CRAT; 

2.  To  orient  new  CRAT  members;  and 

3.  To  create  interest  in  CRAT  for  future  recruitment  of  new  Team  members. 

The  scenes  and  script  that  Ed  and  Frank  included  in  their  quality  video  do  that  and 
more.  The  video  promotes  Civil  Rights  in  a  positive,  encouraging  way. 

Your  R-4  CRAT  members  look  forward  to  exciting  challenges  and  changes  in  the 
1990’s  and  beyond!  CRAT  appreciates  the  support  and  contributions  of  each  of 
you.  “All  together  now”— let’s  succeed  in  meeting  the  human  rights  and  services  pro¬ 
gram  goal  for  the  Region,  which  is  to  attract  and  nurture  a  capable,  diverse 
workforce  in  a  caring,  healthy,  productive  work  environment. 

Deanna  L.  Mendiola 

Chairperson,  Region  4  Civil  Rights  Action  Team 


PERSONNEL 


A  footnote  to  this  year’s  CRAT  awards  came 
after  the  presentations  at  St.  George.  John 
Lupis,  Regional  Director  of  Engineering, 
redesigned  the  Intermountain  Civil  Rights 
iapei  pin  and  then  bought  one  for  each  1990 
award  nominee  and  recipient.  John’s  in¬ 
itiative  and  thoughtfulness  added  an  extra 
special  touch.  CRAT  thanks  John  for  this 
memento  and  for  “making  a  difference.” 


STEWARDSHIP 
AWARD  FINALIST 


The  Air  Resource  Program  on  the 
Bridger-Teton  National  Forest  recently 
received  national  recognition  as  a 
1990  finalist  for  the  Chief’s  Steward¬ 
ship  Award. 

Specifically,  the  Forest  was  recogniz¬ 
ed  for  outstanding  stewardship 
leading  to  conservation  of  soil,  water, 
and  air  resources  in  the  Bridger 
Wilderness  on  the  Pinedale  Ranger 
District.  Key  players  were:  Al 
Galbraith,  Forest  Hydrologist,  and 
Cheryl  Harrelson,  Clem  Rawlins,  Kurt 
Nelson,  and  Ranger  Bob  Reese  from 
the  Pinedale  Ranger  District. 

In  1989,  the  Pinedale  Ranger  District 
was  awarded  the  National  Primitive 
Skills  Award  for  using  primitive  skills 
in  collecting  baseline  air  quality  data, 
such  as  acid  deposition  and  visibility, 
in  the  Bridger  Wilderness. 

Clif  Benoit,  Regional  Air  Resource 
Program  Manager,  said  the  Bridger 
Wilderness  Air  Resource  Program  is 
recognized  internationally  and  has 
served  as  a  catalyst  for  air  quality 
programs  in  other  state  and  federal 
land  management  agencies. 


Page  22 


PERSONNEL 


Awards 

REGIONAL  OFFICE  _ 

(The  following  Regional  Office  awards  were  made  between 
October  1,  1990,  and  February  2,  1991.) 

Cash 

JONNIE  L.  VALDEZ,  Cartographic  Technician,  E  -  $150  for  in¬ 
itiative  and  individual  effort  in  assisting  with  field  targeting  and 
aerial  photography  projects. 

MATT  W.  HARMAN,  Airplane  Pilot,  A&FM  -  $150  for  initiative 
and  individual  effort  in  fulfilling  a  wide  variety  of  flying 
assignments  necessary  for  timely  response  to  requests  for  aerial 
photography. 

GLEN  L.  BARON,  JR.,  Landscape  Architect,  E  -  $250  for  sus¬ 
tained  superior  performance  as  a  member  of  the  Intermountain 
Region  Facilities  Engineering  Group. 

MAX  EWING,  Computer  System  Analyst,  E  -  $250  for  sustained 
superior  performance  as  a  member  of  the  Engineering  Systems 
Group  and  for  increasing  the  understanding  and  use  of  automated 
methods  in  the  Engineering  workforce. 

LEANN  W.  TRACY,  Payroll  Clerk,  E  -  $5(K)  for  sustained 
superior  performance. 

GLENDA  W.  MOORE,  Computer  Assistant,  P&B  -  For  outstan¬ 
ding  performance  in  1990. 

HUGH  G.  PANGMAN,  Forest  Plan  Appeals  Manager,  P&B  -  For 
efforts  on  the  Three  Region  Anadromous  Fish  Policy  and  Im¬ 
plementation  Group. 

RALPH  E.  WILLIAMS,  Boise  Field  Representative,  FPM  -  For 
sustained  superior  performance  as  Acting  Group  Leader  for  FPM 
2/90-5/90  and  for  leadership  in  directing  the  Regional  FPM  Pro¬ 
gram  and  completing  the  economic  analysis. 

GARY  D.  MCDANIEL,  Cartographic  Technician,  E  -  For  sustain¬ 
ed  superior  performance  in  map  updating  activities. 

DONALD  C.  STITT,  Cartographic  Technician,  E  -  For  personal 
initiative  and  success  in  applying  automated  method  in  ac¬ 
complishing  unit  goals. 

KENT  H.  BINGHAM,  Civil  Engineer,  E  -  For  sustained  superior 
performance  in  his  duties  as  the  Regional  Environmental  Engineer. 
DAVID  C.  GEORGE,  Cartographer,  E  -  For  sustained  superior 
performance  as  a  member  of  the  Intermountain  Region  GIS  Ad¬ 
visory  Committee  and  for  responsiveness  to  a  variety  of  GIS- 
related  requests  and  issues. 

JAMES  R.  TRENHOLM,  Highway  Engineer,  E  -  For  speaking 
skills  attained  through  presentation  of  10  speeches  in  the  Regional 
Office  Speakeasies  organization. 

WILDEN  W.  MOFFETT,  Architect,  E  -  For  sustained  superior 
performance. 

JOHN  F.  OWEN,  Supervisory  Contract  Specialist,  AS  -  In 
recognition  of  able  participation  in  developing  and  awarding  the 
DC-3  turbine  conversion  contract. 

SUE  M.  GREEN,  Supervisory  Office  Manager,  E  -  For  sustained 
superior  performance. 

LYNN  H.  WIESE,  Supervisory  Cartographer,  E  -  For  sustained 
superior  performance  in  applying  new  technology  in  remote  sens¬ 
ing  and  photogrammetry. 

RICHARD  B.  OTTESEN,  Supervisory  Accountant,  F&PS  -  For 
laying  the  groundwork,  establishing  the  standards  and  analyzing 
the  workload  for  the  renewed  Region  4  special  use  audit  program 
during  1989  and  1990. 

GEORGE  M.  TAGGART,  Group  Leader,  Resource  Accounting, 
F&PS  -  For  conducting  an  aggressive  and  thorough  audit  of  com¬ 
mercial  special  use  operations  in  Region  4  which  has  resulted  in 
additional  billings  of  $1,074,990. 

SHANE  A.  BELLISTON,  Engineering  Technician,  E  -  $250  for 
sustained  superior  performance  in  using  computer-aided  design 
and  drafting  methods. 

RICHARD  J.  BIRD,  Structural  Engineer,  E  -  $250  for  sustained 
superior  performance  as  a  tramway  and  ski  lift  engineer. 

RONALD  A.  BRODERIUS,  Cartographer,  E  -  $150  for  sustained 
superior  performance  in  providing  special  map  and  graphics  pro¬ 
ducts  in  support  of  Regional  goals. 

SHANE  A.  BROWN,  Electrical  Engineer,  E  -  $250  for  sustained 
superior  performance  as  a  member  of  the  Intermountain  Region 
Facilities  Engineering  Group. 

RICHARD  L.  BRYNER,  Illustrator,  E  -  For  sustained  superior 
performance  in  providing  special  map  and  graphics  products  in 
support  of  Regional  goals. 

GEORGE  E.  CHRISTOPHER,  Cartographic  Technician,  E  -  $150 
for  initiative  and  individual  effort  in  assisting  with  control  plan¬ 
ning  and  serving  as  camera  operator  on  aerial  photography 
projects. 

VERL  N.  CREAGER,  Supervisory  Cartographer,  E  -  $150  for  suc¬ 
cessfully  converting  software  programs  to  meet  specific  needs  and 
for  developing  information  booklets  for  various  automated  pro¬ 
cesses  for  field  personnel. 

GARY  W.  GIBBONS,  Architectural  Technician,  E  -  $250  for  sus¬ 
tained  superior  performance  in  using  computer-aided  design  and 
drafting  methods. 

CRAIG  H.  GREENE,  Civil  Engineer,  E  -  $250  for  sustained 
superior  performance  as  a  member  of  the  Intermountain  Region 
Facilities  Engineering  Group. 

JERRY  JACOBY,  Aerial  Photographer,  E  -  $150  for  sustained 
superior  performance  in  filling  a  wide  variety  of  aerial 
photography  requests  in  a  responsive  manner. 


BILLY  G.  KEITH,  Civil  Engineering  Technician,  E  -  $500  for  sus¬ 
tained  superior  performance  as  a  member  of  the  Intermountain 
Region  Bridge  Engineering  Group. 

ELIZABETH  M.  KING,  Geometronics  Clerk,  E  -  $250  for  sus¬ 
tained  superior  performance  as  a  member  of  the  Intermountain 
Region  Engineering  Mapping  and  Graphics  Group. 

STANLEY  E.  MCGREW,  Supervisory  Airplane  Pilot,  A&FM  -  In 
recognition  of  able  participation  in  developing  and  awarding  the 
DC-3  turbine  conversion  contract. 

RIDLEY  P.  LIFSEY,  Cartographic  Technician,  E  -  $150  for  sus¬ 
tained  superior  performance  in  providing  special  map  and 
graphics  products  in  support  of  Regional  goals. 

DEBBIE  D.  MARTINEZ,  Office  Management  Assistant,  E  -  $150 
for  performance  of  additional  duties  including  moving  more  than 
800  files  and  purging  more  than  60  Employee  Development 
Folders. 

TAMRA  J.  MONTORO,  Clerk  Typist,  E  -  $150  for  high  perform¬ 
ance  in  staff  property  management  and  completion  of  the 
Engineering  Property  Inventory  and  a  special  effort  in  preparing 
the  R-4  Cost  Estimating  Guide  for  road  construction. 

PATSY  K.  O’DONOVAN,  Cartographic  Technician,  E  -  $150  for 
superior  contribution  to  the  success  of  the  U.S.  Board  of 
Geographic  Names  Centennial  celebration  exhibit. 

KEN  L.  PAGE,  Civil  Engineer,  E  -  $250  for  sustained  superior 
performance  in  duties  as  program  assistant  to  the  Regional 
Facilities  Engineer. 

KATHRYN  L,  PAROZ,  Budget  Assistant,  E  -  $250  for  extra  effort 
and  responsiveness  in  coordinating  the  Engineering  staff  budget. 
JOHN  A.  REHMER.  Computer  Operator,  E  -  $150  for  personal 
initiative  and  success  in  applying  automated  methods  to  ac¬ 
complish  unit’s  goals. 

JON  K.  SCHNARE,  Civil  Engineer,  E  -  $225  for  speaking  skill 
attained  through  presentation  of  10  speeches  in  the  Regional  Of¬ 
fice  Speakeasies  group. 

WILLIS  C.  SELF,  III,  Hydraulics  Engineer,  E  -  $250  for  sustained 
superior  performance. 

STEVEN  R.  WINWARD,  Cartographer,  E  -  $250  for  initiative  and 
individual  effort  in  applying  automated  methods  in  producing 
photogrammetric  products. 

GARY  OTWELL,  Mail  Clerk,  IS  -  $150  for  providing  extra  sup¬ 
port  and  assistance  to  Engineering  in  assuring  the  success  of  the 
U.S.  Board  on  Geographic  Names  Centennial  exhibit. 

SANDRA  S.  CARLSON,  Applications  Clerk,  R&W  -  $500  for 
sustained  high  quality  performance  in  carrying  out  her  duties  and 
for  giving  the  extra  effort  needed  to  sustain  high  level  staff  output 
and  production. 

MICHAEL  E.  COLLETTE,  Hydrologist,  R&W  -  $500  for  sustain¬ 
ed  high  quality  performance  in  carrying  out  his  duties  and  for 
giving  the  extra  effort  needed  to  sustain  a  high  level  staff  output 
and  production. 

DIANE  M.  HADLEY.  Clerk  Typist,  R&W  -  $500  for  sustained 
high  quality  performance  in  carrying  out  her  duties  and  for  giving 
the  extra  effort  needed  to  sustain  high  level  staff  output  and 
production. 

BERNICE  L.  HAMPTON,  Supervisory  Management  Assistant, 
R&W  -  For  sustained  high  quality  performance  in  carrying  out  the 
duties  of  her  position  and  for  giving  the  extra  effort  needed  to 
sustain  high  level  staff  output  and  production. 

WAYNE  G.  PADGETT,  Ecologist,  R&W  -  $500  for  sustained  high 
quality  performance  in  carrying  out  the  duties  of  his  position  and 
for  giving  the  extra  effort  needed  to  sustain  high  level  staff  output 
and  production. 

SUSAN  L.  PREECE,  Computer  Program  Analyst,  R&W  -  $500 
for  sustained  high  quality  performance  in  carrying  out  the  duties 
of  her  position  and  for  giving  the  extra  effort  needed  to  sustain 
high  level  staff  output  and  production. 

MINDl  SANDERS,  Clerk  Typist.  R&W  -  $500  for  sustained  high 
quality  performance  in  carrying  out  the  duties  of  her  position  and 
for  giving  the  extra  effort  needed  to  sustain  high  level  staff  output 
and  production. 

TINA  S.  MILDON,  Procurement  Assistant,  AS  -  $200  as  recogni¬ 
tion  of  her  able  participation  in  developing  and  awarding  the 
DC-3  turbine  conversion  contract. 

ANN  S.  ALLAN,  Clerk  Typist,  P&B  -  $350  for  outstanding  serv¬ 
ice  to  the  Regional  Office  employees  in  making  TQM  awareness 
sessions  a  quality  experience. 

ANN  S.  ALLAN,  Clerk  Typist,  P&B  -  $250  for  continuous 
outstanding  performance. 

THELMA  M.  SHINNEY,  Conveyance  Clerk,  R&L  -  $500  for 
outstanding  personal  effort  and  superior  quality  of  work  in  the 
completion  of  reviewing  and  updating  an  estimated  5,6(X)  files  of 
land  acquisition  cases. 

ROBERT  L.  MATHIASEN,  Plant  Pathologist,  S&PF  -  $800  for 
leadership  in  planning  and  establishing  the  westwide  permanent 
plot  project  for  validation  of  pest  models. 

JAMES  HOFFMAN,  Plant  Pathologist,  S&PF  -  $250  for  organiz¬ 
ing  a  recycling  drive  and  incorporating  tree  planting  opportunities 
in  the  Idaho  Centennial  celebration. 

RICHARD  H.  PINE,  Public  Affairs  Specialist  -  $400  for  leader¬ 
ship  in  developing  and  publishing  the  “State  and  Private  Forestry 
in  the  Intermountain  Region”  brochure. 

JAMES  J.  ARNOTT,  Computer  Specialist,  INT  -  An  S&PF  award 
for  $500  for  his  dedication  in  helping  the  Ogden  Field  Office, 
Ogden  Ranger  District  and  RWU’s  4501  and  4801  achieve  their 
goal  of  making  high  quality  graphics  a  routine  procedure. 
SHERRIE  A.  SALAZAR,  Secretary,  RF  -  For  outstanding 
performance  in  FY  1990. 


MARY  SPENCER,  Regional  Dispatcher,  A&FM  -  For  outstanding 
performance  far  exceeding  the  duties  of  her  position. 

RONALD  R.  BELL,  Aviation  Management  Officer,  A&FM  -  $400 
for  his  able  participation  in  developing  and  awarding  the  DC-3 
turbine  conversion  contract. 

WILLIAM  GLEN  PARKER,  Accountant,  F&PS  -  $1,0(X)  for  con¬ 
ducting  an  aggressive  and  thorough  audit  of  commercial  special 
use  operations  in  R-4  which  has  resulted  in  additional  billings  of 
$1,074,990. 

IRENE  E.  VOIT,  Technical  Information  Specialist,  INT  -  For  pro¬ 
viding  timely  and  useful  information  quickly  and  at  a  minimal 
cost  to  the  Forest  Service,  which  assisted  R-4  in  financial  analysis. 
BONNIE  JACQUES,  Clerk  Typist,  P&B  -  For  continuous 
outstanding  performance. 

LARELIA  F.  JONES,  Employee  Relations  Specialist,  PM  -  For 
outstanding  performance  in  all  elements  of  her  position  during  FY 
1990. 

Quality  Increase 

GARY  OTWELL,  Mail  Clerk,  IS  -  For  outstanding  performance 
of  mailroom  duties  and  continually  going  out  of  his  way  to  be 
friendly  and  helpful. 

CARIBOU  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Quality  Step  Increase 

JULIE  K.  KING,  Range  Conservationist,  Montpelier  RD  -  For 
superior  performance  while  Acting  Program  Manager  for  an  ex¬ 
tended  period  of  time. 

CHALLIS  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Cash 

CHARLES  E.  MABBOTT,  Forestry  Technician,  Middle  Fork 
RD  -  For  outstanding  performance  in  the  River  and  Wilderness 
Programs  on  the  District. 

DIXIE  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

Cash 

RONALD  RODRIGUEZ,  Wildlife  Biologist,  SO  -  For  exemplary 
achievement  in  developing  and  applying  integrated  resource 
management  and  old-growth  definition  to  Forest  resource 
programs. 

BESSIE  PERKINS,  Accounting  Technician,  SO  -  For  her  out¬ 
standing  ability  and  willingness  to  perform  duties. 

ARLENE  HEAP,  Accounting  Technician,  SO  -  For  her  outstand¬ 
ing  ability  and  willingness  to  perform  duties. 

BRIAN  FERGUSON,  Forester,  SO  -  For  exemplary  achievement 
in  developing  and  applying  integrated  resource  management  and 
old-growth  definition  to  Forest  resource  programs. 

MANTI-LA  SAL  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Quality  Increase 

CHARLENE  MCDOUGALD,  Support  Services  Specialist,  Price 
RD  -  For  performing  her  duties  at  an  outstanding  level. 

PAYETTE  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

JEANNE  FELMY,  Forestry  Technician,  Weiser  RD  -  For  leader¬ 
ship  and  innovation  in  developing  and  implementing  programs  on 
the  Forest. 

SALMON  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Cash 

REBECCA  F.  COTHRAN,  Recreation  Outdoor  Planner,  Cobalt 
RD  -  For  performance  exceeding  normal  requirements  over  a  sus¬ 
tained  period. 

CORNELIA  H.  HUDSON,  Forester,  Cobalt  RD  -  For  coor¬ 
dinating  and  expediting  the  preparation  of  high  quality  personal 
use  firewood  map  and  permit. 

TARGHEE  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

Group 

BRENT  PORTER,  Palisades  Assistant  District  Ranger;  RONDA 
HAMMER.  Resource  Clerk.  SO;  ROBERT  KIRKPATRICK.  Civil 
Engineer,  SO;  DEE  SESSIONS,  Ashton  Assistant  District  Ranger; 
and  KIMBERLY  JOHNSON,  Wildlife  Biologist,  Dubois  RD  -  For 
developing  a  sound  review  and  analysis  process  that  has  allowed 
the  Forest  to  develop  a  workforce  management  strategy  that  will 
allow  reacting  to  anticipated  changes  in  program  direction  and 
budgets  with  little  or  no  disruption  of  employees. 

ALISSA  L.  WILSON,  Civil  Engineering  Technician:  THOMAS 
C.  DILLON,  Forester;  MIKEL  C.  ALFIERI,  Forestry  Technician: 
DAVE  STRICKLAN.  Natural  Resource  Specialist;  RUSH  E. 
HARDIN.  Forester;  RODNEY  D.  DYKEHOUSE,  Forestry 
Technician:  JILL  D.  KELLY,  Wildlife  Biologist;  and  RICHARD 
E.  WELCH,  Wildlife  Biologist,  Island  Park  RD  -  For  developing 
a  sound  review  and  analysis  process  that  has  allowed  the  Forest  to 
develop  a  workforce  management  strategy  that  will  allow  reacting 
to  anticipated  changes  in  program  direction  and  budgets  with 
little  or  no  disruption  of  employees. 

Cash 

THOMAS  S.  GELATT,  Wildlife  Biologist,  Island  Park  RD  -  For 
efficient,  effective  coordination  and  execution  of  a  rescue  opera¬ 
tion  involving  night  extraction  of  two  Forest  Service  employees 
who  were  mired  in  deep  snow  in  the  bottom  of  a  canyon. 


Page  23 


PERSONNEL 


PETER  V.  SANDA,  Forestry  Technician,  Island  Park  RD  -  Due  to 
a  change  in  personnel,  he  was  required  to  accomplish  many 
assignments  beyond  his  normal  duties.  His  knowledge  of  data 
bases  and  flexibility  in  scheduling  proved  invaluable  during  a  time 
of  challenging  workload  on  the  District. 

DAVID  R.  SLEIGHT,  Dubois  Assistant  District  Ranger  -  For 
working  with  subordinates  to  reduce  tree  planting  costs  during  the 
1990  season. 

JOHN  A  HOUSE,  Forestry  Technician,  Ashton  RD  -  For  superior 
levels  of  performance  exceeding  expectations  both  in  quality  and 
quantity  throughout  the  year. 

THOMAS  H.  KIVIOJA,  Forestry  Technician,  Island  Park  RD  -  For 
his  consistently  dedicated  effort  and  ability.  He  exceeded  the  ex¬ 
pected  acre  target  for  stocking  surveys  by  35%  during  his  first  year 
of  employment. 

DEAN  R.  HATHAWAY,  Civil  Engineering  Technician,  SO  -  For 
providing  exceptional  customer  service  in  developing  the  TQM  pro¬ 
cess  on  the  Forest. 

RANDALL  R.  FREDERICKSEN,  Equipment  Operator  Leader, 

SO  -  For  keeping  the  Forest’s  road  maintenance  forces  intact  while 
accomplishing  85%  of  the  Forest’s  road  construction  target. 

ELLEN  SPICKERMAN,  Hydrologist,  Palisades  RD  -  For  pro¬ 
viding  exceptional  customer  service  and  going  the  extra  mile  in 
creating  a  positive  image  to  our  external  customers. 

Quality  Step  Increase 

RICHARD  ROBERSON,  Forester,  Teton  Basin  RD  -  For  superior 
performance  in  planning  and  implementing  the  District’s 
silvicultural  and  reforestation  program  and  also  for  efforts  in 
assisting  the  District  in  accomplishing  more  than  92%  of  the 
Forest  Plan  objectives  (acres  harvested)  during  the  past  10  years. 
LARRY  K.  MILLER,  Forestry  Technician,  Teton  Basin  RD  -  For 
superior  performance  in  planning  and  implementing  the  District’s 
timber  sale  program  and  for  assisting  the  District’s  timber  sale  pro¬ 
gram  in  accomplishing  more  than  92%  of  the  Forest  Plan  objec¬ 
tives  (acres  harvested)  during  the  past  10  years. 

DOUG  R.  BEAL,  Forester,  Teton  Basin  RD  -  For  superior 
performance  in  planning  and  implementing  the  District’s  timber 
and  reforestation  programs  and  for  assisting  the  District  timber 
program  in  accomplishing  more  than  92%  of  the  Forest  Plan  ob¬ 
jectives  (acres  harvested)  during  the  past  10  years. 


Roll  Call 


REGIONAL  OFFICE  _ 

Promotion 

BETSY  RICKARDS,  Land  Use  Planning  Specialist,  P&B,  from 
Land  Management  Planning  Specialist,  Siskiyou  NF,  R-6 

Reassignment 

LORRIE  MEIER,  Minerals  Leasing  Assistant,  MAM,  to  Claims 
Examiner,  F&PS 

ASHLEY  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Promotion  in  Place 

GARY  M.  STOLZ,  Supervisory  Visitor  Information  Specialist, 
Flaming  Gorge  RD 

Reassignment 

M.  EULA  WISE,  Support  Services  Specialist,  SO,  to  Purchasing 
Agent,  SO 

BOISE  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Promotions 

ETHEL  HILL,  Procurement  Clerk,  SO,  to  Procurement  Assistant, 
SO 

CHARLES  SHOWERS,  Supervisory  Civil  Engineer,  Idaho  City 
RD,  to  Supervisory  Civil  Engineer,  Payette  NF 
RICHARD  CHRISTENSEN,  Supervisory  Civil  Engineer,  SO,  from 
Civil  Engineer,  Mt.  Baker-Snoqualmie  NF,  R-6 

Promotions  in  Place 

JOAN  WREN,  Accounting  Technician,  SO 

GERALD  SZYMANIAK,  Range  Technician,  Emmett  RD 

Reassignments 

NELDA  MONTGOMERY,  Procurement  Assistant,  SO,  to  Procure¬ 
ment  Assistant,  Geometronics  Service  Center 
JANET  SHORTHOUSE,  Clerk  Typist,  Intermountain  Research 
Station,  to  Information  Receptionist,  Boise  RD 
ROBERT  LOKKER,  Forestry  Technician,  Cascade  RD,  to  Forester, 
Bitterroot  NF 

BRIDGER-TETON  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 


CARIBOU  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

Promotion 

SHANDA  S.  FALLAU,  Student  Trainee  Fishery  Biologist,  Mont¬ 
pelier  RD,  to  Fishery  Biologist,  Montpelier  RD 

CHALLIS  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

Promotion 

JUDY  L.  SMITH,  Business  Management  Assistant,  Middle  Fork 
RD,  to  Support  Services  Specialist,  Middle  Fork  RD 

Promotion  in  Place 

JIMMIE  G.  JAMES,  Information  Receptionist,  SO 

DIXIE  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Appointment 

JANET  NELSON,  Personnel  Clerk,  SO 

FISHLAKE  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

HUMBOLDT  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

MANTI-LA  SAL  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

PAYETTE  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

Appointments 

CATHERINE  PETZAK,  Information  Receptionist,  SO 
NATHANIEL  BEGAY,  Coop-Ed  (Forestry),  Council  RD 

Promotion 

WAYNE  REYNOLDS,  Forestry  Technician,  Escalante  RD,  Dixie 
NF,  to  Forestry  Technician  (Scaler),  SO 

Promotions  in  Place 

LEE  ANN  KESLER,  Resource  Clerk-Typing,  Council  RD 
JOYCE  STECKMAN,  Support  Services  Supervisor,  New  Meadows 
RD 

CLIFFORD  ARTHUR,  Computer  Programmer  Analyst,  SO 
Reassignments 

CHERYL  SMULL,  Manpower  Development  Specialist,  R-5  (RO), 
to  Forest  Supervisor’s  Secretary,  SO 

SUNDI  HOOD,  Forestry  Technician,  McCall  RD,  to  Forestry 
Technician,  Lowman  RD,  Boise  NF 

SALMON  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

Promotion  in  Place 

ESTHER  H.  MUND,  Support  Services  Supervisor,  SO 

SAWTOOTH  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 

TARGHEE  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Appointments 

GAIL  M.  WORDEN,  Wildlife  Biologist,  Ashton  RD 
JAMES  H.  TAUBMAN,  Forester.  Ashton  RD 

Promotion 

EVELYNN  HURT,  Supervisory  Personnel  Assistant,  SO,  to  Person¬ 
nel  Management  Specialist,  SO 

Promotions  in  Place 

MARK  MOULTON,  Hydrologist.  SO 
ROBERT  M.  KIRKPATRICK,  Civil  Engineer,  SO 
DOUGLAS  H.  PAGE,  Forester,  Ashton  RD 
SUSAN  L.  HEALD,  Forester,  Ashton  RD 
RONALD  T.  HURT,  Forestry  Technician,  Ashton  RD 

Reassignments 

JUAN  BARBOSA,  Administrative  Officer,  Oak  Knoll  RD, 

Klamath  NF,  to  Personnel  Management  Specialist,  SO 
ELLIS  GARDNER,  Civil  Engineering  Technician,  SO,  to  Safety 
and  Occupational  Health  Specialist,  SO 
MELISSA  JENKINS,  Forestry  Technician,  Island  Park  RD,  to 
Forester,  Island  Park  RD 

TOIYABE  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

Promotion 

ROBERT  VAUGHT,  Austin  District  Ranger,  to  Deputy  Forest 
Supervisor,  Tongass  NF,  Alaska 

UINTA  NATIONAL  FOREST _ 

WASATCH-CACHE  NATIONAL  FOREST  _ 


Tracking  Former  Region  4*ers: 

WIN  GREEN,  Endangered  Species/Animal  Damage  Control 
Specialist  in  the  Regional  Office  Wildlife  Staff  in  1977,  has  been 
named  the  Supervisor  of  the  Clearwater  National  Forest  in 
Region  I. 


Editorial 
Policy — 

Intermountain 

Reporter 

The  following  editorial  policy  reflects  the  Regional 
Forester’s  desire  to  produce  a  quality  Regional 
newsletter  that  enhances  internal  communications 
and  helps  make  the  Intermountain  Region  a  good 
place  to  work. 

1.  Articles  in  the  Intermountain  Reporter  will 
feature  people. 

2.  Each  issue  will  attempt  to  contain  something 
about  each  National  Forest  within  the  Region. 

3.  The  Regional  Forester’s  message  will  express 
his  current  feelings  regarding  situations  within  the 
Region. 

4.  The  content  of  the  Reporter  will  be  consistent 
with  Forest  Service  policy. 

5.  All  submissions  must  be  delivered  to  the 
Editor  by  the  10th  of  the  month  prior  to  the 
desired  publication  date. 

6.  Articles  should  be  sent  to  the  Editor  on  DG 
(Editor:R04A).  Photos  to  accompany  text  may  be 
sent  to  the  Editor  separately. 

7.  Articles  should  not  exceed  800  words  in 
length. 

8.  Photos  should  be  black  and  white. 

9.  All  articles  are  subject  to  editing. 

10.  Not  all  articles  that  are  submitted  will  be 
printed. 

11.  The  Editor  has  final  say  over  content. 


Intermountain  Reporter 


Published  for  Forest  Service 
employees  and  retirees  by  the 
Public  Affairs  Office,  Intermoun- 
tain  Region,  Forest  Service,  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture — 
Federal  Office  Bldg.,  324  25th 
Street,  Ogden,  Utah  84401. 

Colleen  Anderson,  Editor 
Susan  McDaniel,  Design  and 
Layout 


Page  24 


HISTORY 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FOREST  SERVICE 
FEDERAL  OFFICE  BUILDING 
324  25TH  STREET 
OGDEN,  UTAH  84401 


THIRD-CLASS  BULK  RATE  MAIL 
Postage  and  Fees  Paid 
USDA  FOREST  SERVICE 
Permit  No.  G-40 


TO: 


FORTY  YEARS  A  GO 


tm 


The  week  of  April  22  was  set  aside  natiorjally  to  recognize  a 
special  segment  of  the  workforce— the  Secretaries.  In  their 
honor,  we  offer  this  historical  note. 


The  Washington  School  for  Secretaries  had  this  advice:  “A 
secretary  to  a  woman  executive  should  keep  a  notebook  of 
the  clothes  her  employer  wears  ...  so  that  the  boss’s  ward¬ 
robe  can  be  properly  rotated.”  Clothes  monitoring  skills  on  a 
resume?  Luckily  such  skills  are  no  longer  a  job  requirement 
for  secretaries  or  CEO’s. 


IN  THE  EARLY 

FOREST  SERVICE 


Washington  Office  Historian  Terry  West  says  that  it  is  not 
easy  to  identify  the  first  woman  in  the  Forest  Service.  The  se¬ 
cond  one  was  (Mrs.)  Edna  (Frost)  Crocker.  She  was  hired  as 
the  ‘‘second  Stenographer”  on  December  12,  1898.  Terry 
thinks  that  the  first  was  also  a  woman  . .  .  but  only  men  were 
allowed  to  be  Secretaries  from  the  beginning  years  of  the  in¬ 
dustrial  revolution  until  the  latter  part  of  the  19th  century. 

Mrs.  Crocker  started  5  months  after  Gifford  Pinchot  took  of¬ 
fice  at  the  Division  of  Forestry.  She  was  the  Chief’s  Secretary 
from  Pinchot  to  Lyle  Watts  (1943)  and  retired  in  1944  after  46 
years.  She  died  in  1980  at  age  103. 


