Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


Economic 

Research 

Service 


ECIFS  12-2 


Economic  Indicators  of  the 
Farm  Sector 


State  Financial 
Summary,  1992 


, 

■  ■  ■  -V,  .  i  ' 

:•  .  •  •" 1  ■  -  . 


It’s  Easy  To  Subscribe! 

Just  dial  1-800-999-6779.  Toll  free. 


Ask  for  Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector  series. 


The  series  is  available  by  subscription.  Four  separate  reports  are  published  each  year: 


National  Financial  Summary 
State  Financial  Summary 

Costs  of  Production— Major  Field  Crops  and  Livestock  and  Dairy 
Production  and  Efficiency  Statistics 


Subscription  rates  are  $19  per  year.  Multiyear  subscriptions  are  available  at  $36  (2 
years)  and  $54  (3  years).  Single  copies  are  $8.00  each.  For  non-U. S.  addresses,  add 
25  percent  (includes  Canada).  Charge  your  purchase  to  your  VISA  or  MasterCard,  or 
we  can  bill  you.  Or  send  a  check  or  purchase  order  (made  payable  to  ERS-NASS)  to: 

ERS-NASS 
341  Victory  Drive 
Herndon,  VA  22070 


Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector:  State  Financial  Summary,  1992.  Agriculture  and  Rural  Economy 
Division,  Economic  Research  Service,  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture.  ECIFS  12-2. 


Abstract 


California  had  the  highest  estimate  of  net  farm  income  of  any  State  for  1992  with  $4.8  billion.  Texas  was 
second  with  $3.5  billion.  Farm  operations  in  four  other  States  produced  incomes  in  excess  of  $2  billion: 
Florida  ($2.8),  Nebraska  ($2.7),  Iowa  ($2.5),  and  North  Carolina  ($2.5).  Net  farm  income  reflects  the  net 
value  of  all  goods  and  services  produced  within  the  year.  Cattle  and  calves  and  dairy  products  were  the 
top  commodities  in  cash  receipts.  Texas  led  cattle  and  calf  receipts  with  $5.6  billion,  and  Wisconsin 
topped  dairy  sales  with  $3.1  billion.  Corn  and  soybeans  were  the  third-  and  fourth-ranked  commodities  in 
the  nation,  with  Illinois  and  Iowa  ranked  first  and  second,  respectively,  in  sales  for  both.  Illinois’  receipts 
for  corn  and  soybeans  were  $2.8  billion  and  $2  billion,  respectively.  Hogs  were  the  fifth-ranked 
commodity,  with  Iowa  the  leading  producer  at  $2.7  billion.  California,  Iowa,  and  Texas  were  the  top  three 
States,  when  ranked  by  assets,  total  debt,  real  estate  debt,  or  nonreal  estate  debt.  Texas  ranked  first  in 
farm  assets  ($74.4  billion),  California  second  ($68.1  billion),  and  Iowa  third  ($54.1  billion).  California 
ranked  first  in  total  debt  ($13.1  billion),  followed  by  Iowa  ($9.9  billion)  and  Texas  ($9.3  billion). 


Keywords:  Net  farm  income,  returns  to  operators,  farm  assets,  and  farm  debt. 


Acknowledgments 


This  publication  benefited  from  the  critiques  of  Kevin  Ingram,  Janet  Perry,  and  Michelle  Robinson. 


The  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  prohibits  discrimination  in  its  programs  on  the  basis  of  race,  color,  national  origin,  sex,  religion,  age,  disabil¬ 
ity,  political  beliefs  and  marital  or  familial  status.  (Not  all  prohibited  bases  apply  to  all  programs).  Persons  with  disabilities  who  require  alternative  means  for 
communication  of  program  information  (braille,  large  print,  audiotape,  etc.)  should  contact  the  USDA  Office  of  Communications  at  (202)  720-5881  (voice)  or 
(202)  720-7808  (TDD).  To  file  a  complaint,  write  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.C.,  20250,  or  call  (202)  720-7327 
(voice)  or  (202)  720-1127  (TDD).  USDA  is  an  equal  opportunity  employer. 


Washington,  DC  20005-4788 


January  1994 


Preface 


This  report  is  one  of  four  segments  in  the  Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector 
series.  Other  reports  in  the  series  are  National  Financial  Summary,  Production  and 
Efficiency  Statistics,  and  Costs  of  Production-Major  Field  Crops  and  Livestock  and 
Dairy. 

This  report  corresponds  to  the  national  farm  income  and  balance  sheet  accounts 
published  in  Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector:  National  Financial  Summary, 
1992,  disaggregated  to  State  levels.  All  the  income  and  balance  sheet  estimates  in 
these  reports  are  based  on  the  calendar  year. 

The  data  are  based  on  information  mainly  from  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture’s  National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service  (NASS)  and  the  1987  Census  of 
Agriculture:  United  States  (Vol.  1,  Part  51,  Nov.  1989)  and  ERS  Farm  Costs  and 
Returns  Survey  (FCRS).  Additional  information  is  obtained  from  other 
Government  agencies  and,  in  some  cases,  from  private  sources.  Revisions  were 
made  for  1988-91.  State-level  farm  income  and  balance  sheet  estimates  for  1992 
are  published  for  the  first  time. 

Additional  information  about  cash  receipts  by  State  and  commodity  can  be  found  in 
the  annual  report,  Ranking  of  States  and.  Commodities  by  Cash  Receipts,  published 
annually  by  ERS,  USDA. 

Cash  receipts,  the  most  variable  of  the  major  components  of  farm  income,  are 
often  used  as  an  indication  of  conditions  in  the  farm  economy  prior  to  the 
availability  of  an  estimate  of  net  farm  income.  Estimates  of  cash  receipts  are 
available  monthly.  For  further  information,  contact  Linda  Farmer  on  (202)  219- 
0804. 

This  publication  was  prepared  by  the  staff  of  the  Farm  Income  Estimation  Section 
and  the  Farm  Financial  Analysis  Section,  Farm  Sector  Financial  Analysis  Branch, 
Agriculture  and  Rural  Economy  Division,  Economic  Research  Service. 

Principal  contributors  and  information  sources: 


Branch  chief:  Jim  Johnson  .  (202)  219-0800 

Farm  income:  Roger  Strickland  .  219-0804 

Cash  receipts— Bob  Williams,  Cheryl  Steele  .  219-0804 

Government  payments,  CCC  loans-Pat  Vines  .  219-0804 

Production  expenses-Christopher  McGath  .  219-0804 

Farm-related  income-Linda  Farmer  .  219-0804 

Balance  sheet:  Duane  Hacklander .  219-0798 

Assets-Ken  Erickson,  Charles  Barnard  .  219-0799 

Debt— Jim  Ryan .  219-0798 

Returns  to  equity-Ken  Erickson  .  219-0799 

Farm  financial  ratios— Ken  Erickson  .  219-0799 


Support  group: 

Computer— Helen  Devlin,  Janusz  Kubica 

Computer  assistance— Jackie  Ross 

Statistical  assistance— Flossie  Dingle,  Connie  Dixon 


Managing  editor:  Jim  Carlin . 219-0512 

Publication  coordinator:  Cheryl  Steele  .  219-0804 


u 


Contents 


Page 


Highlights  .  iv 

List  of  Tables .  vii 

Background  .  1 

State  Income  Accounts  .  1 

Comparisons  with  Tax  Data  .  1 

Data  Sources  and  Estimation  Methods  .  2 

Net  Farm  Income .  3 

Returns  to  Operators  .  3 

Net  Cash  Income  .  3 

Net  Business  Income  .  3 

Farm  Operator  Household  Income .  3 

State  Balance  Sheet  Accounts  .  5 

Real  Estate  Assets  .  6 

Nonreal  Estate  Assets .  7 

Debt .  8 

Real  Estate  Debt  .  8 

Nonreal  Estate  Debt .  9 

Nominal  and  Real  Capital  Gains .  10 

Farm  Financial  Ratios  .  11 

Improvements  and  Additions  to  the  Accounts  . 11 

Statistical  Tables 

State  Farm  Income  Statistics .  16 

State  Farm  Balance  Sheet  Statistics .  177 

Farm  Financial  Ratios  .  213 

Appendix  .  223 


iii 


Highlights 

A  key  factor  affecting  farmers’  net  farm  income  in  1992  was  the  weather,  which 
was,  for  the  most  part,  extremely  favorable  with  adequate  rain  and  an  absence  of 
seasonal  high  temperatures  in  summer  and  early  fall.  These  below-average 
temperatures  eliminated  the  heat  stress  that  often  inhibits  production  of  fall  crops 
and  livestock. 

Corn  yields  jumped  to  a  record-shattering  131  bushels  per  acre,  and  yields  were 
high  for  all  crops  harvested  in  both  summer  and  fall.  Corn  and  soybeans  had 
record-setting  harvests  in  1992,  boosting  cash  receipts  for  crops  to  an  all-time 
high.  (The  combination  of  cash  receipts  and  inventory  change  reflects  annual 
value  of  the  sector’s  commodity  production.)  Corn  and  soybean  prices  declined  in 
the  second  half  of  the  year  as  the  size  of  the  harvest  became  apparent,  but  held 
up  surprisingly  well  because  of  favorable  demand  conditions.  Milk  production  was 
up  2  percent  in  1992  as  output  per  cow  more  than  offset  a  decline  in  the  number 
of  dairy  cows.  The  mild  temperature  conditions  in  late  summer  and  early  fall  that 
contributed  to  the  record  harvest  of  fall  crops  also  reduced  the  heat  stress  on 
cows  mitigating  the  seasonal  decline  in  the  yearly  milk  production  cycle. 

Cash  receipts  were  $171.2  billion,  up  from  $168.7  billion.  California  led  the 
Nation  with  $18.2  billion  in  cash  receipts  from  all  commodities.  California’s  five 
top  commodities  in  sales-dairy  products,  greenhouse  and  nursery  products, 
grapes,  cattle,  and  cotton-accounted  for  47  percent  of  the  State’s  cash  receipts. 
California  led  the  Nation  in  crop  sales  with  $13.2  billion,  and  was  the  top 
producing  State  for  six  commodities:  greenhouse  and  nursery  products,  cotton, 
eggs,  hay,  grapes,  and  lettuce.  The  State  ranked  fourth  in  livestock  commodity 
receipts  at  $5.1  billion.  While  Texas  ranked  second  overall  in  cash  receipts,  with 
$11.6  billion  in  sales,  it  was  first  in  livestock  receipts  ($7.5  billion)  and  fifth  in 
crop  receipts  ($4.1  billion).  Texas  was  also  the  leading  producer  of  cattle  and 
calves  and  grain  sorghum.  Iowa  ranked  third  in  cash  receipts,  with  $10.3  billion, 
third  in  livestock  sales  and  fourth  in  crop  sales.  Nebraska  was  the  fourth  leading 
agricultural  State,  with  $8.8  billion  in  total  sales,  while  Illinois  ranked  fifth,  at 
$7.6  billion.  Iowa  was  the  leading  producer  of  hogs,  and  Illinois  grew  the  most 
corn  and  soybeans.  As  in  1991,  California,  Texas,  Iowa,  Nebraska,  and  Illinois 
ranked  as  the  top  States  in  cash  receipts  for  all  commodities.  These  rankings 
reflect  the  size  of  the  State,  the  proportion  of  its  land  that  can  be  cultivated,  the 
fertility  of  the  land,  and  the  State’s  comparative  advantage  in  producing  and 
marketing  high-valued  commodities. 

Net  farm  income  was  $48.6  billion,  up  from  $40  billion.  This  measure  of  the  farm 
sector’s  net  value  of  production  is  the  net  farm  product.  Corn,  as  both  the 
Nation’s  most  important  crop  and  the  one  most  sensitive  to  weather  conditions, 
serves  as  a  barometer  of  production  for  the  entire  agricultural  sector.  Thus,  when 
the  corn  harvest  is  a  recordbreaker,  net  farm  income  can  be  expected  to  follow 
suit.  The  six  leading  States  in  net  farm  income  were  California  ($4.8  billion), 

Texas  ($3.5  billion),  Florida  ($2.8  billion),  Nebraska  ($2.7  billion),  Iowa  ($2.5 
billion),  and  North  Carolina  ($2.5  billion).  Production  expenses  incurred  in 
producing  the  net  farm  income  were  $149.1  billion,  down  less  that  1-percent.  The 
leading  States  in  production  expenses  were  California  ($14.8  billion),  Texas  ($10.8 
billion),  Iowa  ($9.6  billion),  Illinois  ($7.6  billion),  and  Nebraska  ($7.3  billion). 

The  were  no  changes  in  the  composition  or  the  ranking  of  the  top  nine  states 
from  a  year  earlier. 

Returns  to  operators,  which  differ  from  net  farm  income  by  the  amount  of  net 
rent  to  operator  dwellings  as  a  result  of  excluding  all  income  and  expenses  related 
to  operator  dwellings  in  the  farm  sector,  were  up  21.8  percent  in  1992  to  $47.4 
billion.  California  led  all  States  in  returns  to  operators,  at  $4.8  billion,  followed  by 
Texas  ($3.3  billion),  Florida  ($2.8  billion),  Nebraska  ($2.7  billion),  and  North 
Carolina  ($2.4  billion).  Neither  factor  payments  nor  nonfactor  payments  changed 
significantly,  thus  the  jump  in  returns  to  operators  is  a  reflection  of  the  very  large 
crop  harvests. 


IV 


Net  cash  income  represents  earnings  that  are  available  for  principal  repayment, 
capital  purchases,  and  family  living  expenses.  While  not  a  direct  measure  of 
production,  net  cash  income  is,  nevertheless,  influenced  by  production  levels.  With 
almost  no  change  in  production  expenses  in  1992,  net  cash  income  was  higher  in 
1992.  Its  percentage  increase  was  less  than  that  of  net  farm  income  because  it 
does  not  reflect  the  large  additions  to  end-of-year  inventories,  which  is  typical  of 
years  with  significant  increments  in  production.  Farmers  tend  to  put  large 
quantities  in  storage,  anticipating  or  hoping  for  a  rise  in  price  after  a  few  months 
when  the  markets  have  had  time  to  adjust  to  the  abundant  supply.  Net  cash 
income  from  farming  was  $57.7  billion,  up  8.2  percent  from  $53.3  billion  in  1991. 
The  rise  in  cash  income  was  due  almost  entirely  to  higher  receipts  from  the  sale 
of  crops  and  dairy  products  and  Government  payments.  Net  cash  income  is 
virtually  identical  to  what  it  was  in  1987  and  has  consistently  remained  in  a 
narrow  $53-billion  to  $57-billion  range  for  6  years.  Farmers  manage  then- 
business  activities  to  ensure  stability  in  the  cash-flows  of  their  respective 
operations.  For  example,  when  droughts  occur  in  nonconsecutive  years,  farmers 
can  adjust  inventories  to  manage  their  cash  income  despite  the  variability  in 
production  reflected  in  net  farm  income.  Volatility  can  contribute  to  debt 
payment  problems  and  payment  of  more  income  taxes  with  a  progressive  rate 
structure.  The  farm  sector’s  liquidity  and  debt-servicing  ability  have  improved 
since  the  mid-1980’s  because  of  increased  net  cash  income  from  farming  and  lower 
levels  of  farm  debt. 

Net  cash  income  from  farming  was  highest  in  California  ($5.6  billion),  followed  by 
Texas  ($4  billion),  Florida  ($3  billion),  Nebraska  ($2.9  billion)  and  Iowa  ($2.7 
billion).  The  top  earners  in  1991  were  California,  Texas,  Nebraska,  Florida,  and 
Iowa. 

Net  business  income  tracks  net  cash  income  closely,  but  at  a  lower  level, 
reflecting  the  additional  noncash  deduction  for  capital  consumption,  which  has 
changed  little  in  recent  years.  Net  business  income  was  $4.4  billion  higher  in  1992, 
identical  to  the  change  in  net  cash  income  due  to  a  near  negligible  increase  in 
capital  consumption.  The  rise  in  net  business  income  represented  a  11.4-percent 
increment.  California  led  all  States  with  $4.8  billion,  followed  by  Texas  ($2.9 
billion),  Florida  ($2.8  billion),  Nebraska  ($2.3  billion)  and  North  Carolina  ($2.3 
billion).  In  1991,  the  composition  and  ranking  of  the  top  five  States  was  the 
same. 

The  farm  business  balance  sheet,  improved  in  1992.  The  value  of  farm  assets 
increased  $19  billion  during  1992,  after  first  declining  slightly  during  1991.  Farm 
debt  remained  constant.  The  increase  in  farm  asset  value  and  the  constant  farm 
debt  resulted  in  a  farm  equity  level  of  $723  billion.  The  rates  of  return  on  assets 
and  equity  from  current  income  were  strong  in  1992  at  4  and  3.5  percent, 
respectively. 

The  value  of  farm  business  assets  increased  to  $861.5  billion  as  of  December  31, 
1992,  0.2  percent  above  the  previous  year.  Real  estate  values  strongly  affected 
total  farm  assets  because  the  value  of  farm  real  estate  accounted  for  73  percent  of 
total  farm  asset  value  in  1992.  The  States  with  the  highest  farm  asset  values  were 
Texas,  at  $74.3  billion,  California  ($68.1  billion),  Iowa  ($54.1  billion),  Illinois 
($50.8  billion),  and  Nebraska  ($36.1  billion). 

Farm  business  debt  was  $138.6  billion,  essentially  unchanged  from  the  year 
before.  Real  estate  debt  rose,  while  nonreal  estate  debt  fell.  California  was  the 
leading  State  in  total  debt,  at  $13.1  billion,  up  from  $13.0  billion  in  1991.  Iowa 
was  second  at  $9.9  billion,  up  from  $9.8  billion.  Texas  ranked  third,  at  $9.3 
billion,  down  from  $9.6  billion  in  1991;  Illinois  was  fourth  at  $7.4  billion,  up 
from  $7.3  billion  in  1991;  and  Nebraska  followed  with  $6.9  billion,  up  from  $6.6 
billion. 


v 


Equity  fell  $19.4  billion  to  $722.9  billion.  Texas  registered  the  largest  equity,  at 
$65.1  billion,  followed  by  California  ($55.0  billion),  Iowa  ($44.1  billion),  Illinois 
($43.5  billion),  Nebraska  ($29.3  billion),  and  Minnesota  ($28.8  billion). 

The  debt-to-asset  ratio  provides  insight  into  the  collateral  security  of  loans  (a 
security  pledged  against  the  performance  of  a  contract),  the  relative  indebtedness 
of  the  farm  business,  and  the  risk  borne  by  lenders.  The  farm  business 
debt-to-asset  ratio  fell  to  16.1  percent  from  16.5  percent  by  the  end  of  1992. 
Delaware  had  the  highest  debt-to-asset  ratios,  at  22.2  percent,  followed  by 
Arkansas  (21.1),  Idaho  (20.9),  Mississippi  (20.7),  Louisiana  (20.4),  and  Wisconsin 
(19.6). 


vi 


List  of  Tables 

Table  Page 

Section  I  Tables:  State  Farm  Income  Statistics 

1.  Summary  of  the  farm  sector’s  financial  status,  by  State,  1992  .  16 

2.  Leading  States  for  cash  receipts,  1992  .  17 

3.  States  ranked  by  cash  receipts,  1992  .  18 

4.  Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92  .  19 

5.  Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities, 

United  States  and  States,  1988-92  .  70 

6.  Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1988  .  138 

7.  Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products, 

by  State  and  month,  1988  .  140 

8.  Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1988  .  142 

9.  Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1989  .  144 

10.  Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products, 

by  State  and  month,  1989  .  146 

11.  Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1989  .  148 

12.  Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1990  .  150 

13.  Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products, 

by  State  and  month,  1990  .  152 

14.  Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1990  .  154 

15.  Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1991  .  156 

16.  Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products, 

by  State  and  month,  1991  .  158 

17.  Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1991 .  160 

18.  Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1992  .  162 

19.  Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products, 

by  State  and  month,  1992  .  164 

20.  Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1992  .  166 

21.  Value  of  home  agricultural  commodity  consumption,  by  State,  1990-92  .  168 

22.  Commodity  Credit  Corporation  loan  placements,  by  State,  1988-92  ....  169 

23.  Commodity  Credit  Corporation  loan  redemptions,  by  State,  1988-92  .  .  .  170 

24.  Commodity  Credit  Corporation  loans  liquidated,  by  State,  1988-92  ....  171 

25.  Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1989  .  172 

26.  Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1990  .  173 

27.  Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1991 .  174 

28.  Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1992  .  175 

29.  Farm  production  expenses  (excluding  operator  households), 

by  State,  1988-92  .  176 

Section  II  Tables:  State  Farm  Balance  Sheet  Statistics 

30.  Farm  business  balance  sheet,  United  States,  December  31,  1988-92  .  177 

31.  Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92  .  178 

32.  Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1988  .  203 

33.  Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1988  .  204 

34.  Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1989  .  205 

35.  Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1989  .  206 

36.  Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1990  .  207 

37.  Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1990  .  208 


vii 


38.  Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1991  .  209 

39.  Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1991  .  210 

40.  Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1992  .  211 

41.  Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1992  .  212 

Section  III  Tables:  Farm  Financial  Ratios 

42.  Farm  financial  ratios,  1988  .  213 

43.  Farm  financial  ratios,  1989  215 

44.  Farm  financial  ratios,  1990  .  217 

45.  Farm  financial  ratios,  1991  219 

46.  Farm  financial  ratios,  1992  221 

Appendix 

Al.  State  distribution  factors  for  used  on  farm,  1992  .  224 

A2.  State  distribution  factors  for  selected  components  of  gross  income,  1992  225 

A3.  State  distribution  factors  for  expenses,  1992  .  226 


viii 


Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector 

State  Financial  Summary,  1992 


Background 

In  this  publication,  State  financial  data  appear  in  two 
major  sections:  income  and  balance  sheet  accounts.  Most 
of  the  farm  income  and  balance  sheet  statistics  are  for 
1988-92.  Four  measures  of  farm  income  are  included  in 
order  to  give  additional  perspective.  Using  only  one 
measure  could  give  a  misleading  picture  of  the  farm 
financial  conditions.  Because  there  are  differing  concepts 
and  definitions  of  income,  readers  are  urged  to  choose 
carefully  the  most  appropriate  measures  for  then- 
purpose.  For  more  information  on  farm  income  and 
balance  sheet  accounts,  readers  may  wish  to  consult  the 
handbooks  on  these  accounts.l/ 

The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  (USDA)  collects 
data  for  many  purposes,  and  the  assumptions  underlying 
the  data  collection  methods  often  become  parameters 
influencing  or  even  effectively  controlling  the  conceptual 
design  present  in  the  income  and  balance  sheet 
accounting.  Among  the  more  important  of  the 
parameters  or  limitations  present  in  the  data  are  the 
following.  USDA  defines  a  farm  as  any  establishment 
that  sells  or  normally  would  sell  at  least  $1,000  worth  of 
agricultural  products  in  a  calendar  year.  The  principal 
operator  of  a  farm  is  defined  as  the  individual  making 
the  largest  number  of  day-to-day  management  decisions 
of  planting,  purchasing,  harvesting,  and  marketing. 

When  partners  share  equally  in  the  decisionmaking,  the 
oldest  partner  is  considered  the  principal  operator.  The 
operator  category  includes  owner-operators,  partners, 
tenants,  paid  and  unpaid  managers  associated  with 
corporate  or  institutional  farms,  and  operators  who 
receive  a  fee  for  raising  crops  or  livestock  under 
contracts.  One  effect  of  this  assumption  in  collecting 
data  is  that  only  the  principal  operators  are  surveyed,  and 
certain  information  may  not  be  as  complete  or  accurate 
as  it  could  be.  Interviewing  only  one  operator  per 
operation,  however,  is  typically  sufficient  to  gather  the 
essential  information  related  to  production.  In  addition, 
it  serves  to  keep  costs  down,  since  fewer  interviewers  are 
required  and  the  necessity  of  reviewing  and  reconciling 
information  from  multiple  sources  is  eliminated. 

The  four  income  accounts-net  farm  income,  net  cash 
income,  net  business  income,  and  the  returns  to 
operators-all  represent  income  accruing  to  the  farm 
sector,  which  encompasses  more  than  those  independent 
owner-operators  commonly  viewed  as  being  farmers. 

1/The  handbooks  are  Major  Statistical  Series  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture-Farm  Income.  AH-671, 
Vol.  3,  U.S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Econ.  Res.  Serv.,  Nov.  1988,  and 
Major  Statistical  Series  of  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture-Balance  Sheet.  AH-671,  Vol.  11,  U.S.  Dept. 
Agr.,  Econ.  Res.  Serv.,  May  1989. 


The  farm  sector  income  is  divided  among  the 
owner-operators,  partners,  tenant-operators,  shareholders 
in  farming  corporations,  and  contractors.  Hired 
managers,  although  operators  of  farms,  do  not  share  in 
the  net  income  proceeds  because  they  do  not  share  in  the 
risks  of  the  enterprise.  Their  salaries,  therefore,  are 
treated  as  an  expense  in  the  hired  labor  account. 

State  Income  Accounts 

In  the  income  section  of  this  report,  net  farm  income  is 
the  only  income  account  that  includes  the  income  and 
expenses  associated  with  onfarm  dwellings.  The  other 
three  income  accounts— net  cash  income,  net  business 
income,  and  returns  to  operators— exclude  onfarm 
dwelling  income  and  expenses  (see  illustration  1). 

Comparisons  with  Tax  Data 

None  of  the  USDA  farm  income  measures  represents  an 
aggregation  of  taxable  income  for  farmers  or  any 
subgroup,  such  as  individual  proprietors,  which  are 
sometimes  referred  to  as  family  farms.  On  occasion, 
confusion  arises  when  analysts  attempt  to  compare  the 
USDA  farm  income  series  with  statistics  from  the 
Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS),  which  are  derived  as 
aggregations  from  Schedule  F  because  these  are  the  only 
tax  data  which  can  definitely  be  classified  as  farm-specific. 

Comparing  the  statistics  reported  by  the  IRS  to  net  farm 
income  as  reported  by  USDA  is  difficult.  The  IRS  does 
not  count  some  farm  income  that  is  reported  on  other 
tax  schedules  not  identifiable  as  related  to  farming.  In 
addition,  populations  of  individuals  and  firms  covered  by 
the  IRS  and  USDA  are  different,  and  even  the  concepts 
of  income  and  costs  are  different. 

For  example,  USDA’s  net  farm  income  is  a  measure  of 
the  agricultural  sector’s  net  value  of  production,  which  is 
similar  in  concept  to  the  Department  of  Commerce’s 
Gross  Domestic  Product.  It  includes  net  income  from 
the  total  production  of  all  agricultural  commodities  and 
related  services  originating  from  any  establishment 
meeting  the  USDA  definition  of  a  farm,  regardless  of  its 
legal  form  of  ownership  or  organization. 

In  contrast,  much  of  the  agricultural  sector’s  production 
does  not  get  reported  on  Schedule  F  of  the  tax  forms. 
Examples  are  sales  that  can  be  classified  as  capital  assets 
and  taxed  as  capital  gains,  particularly  breeding  stock  and 
forestry,  and  the  billions  of  dollars  of  production  owned 
by  large  integrated  firms  that  process  and  market  the 
produce.  USDA’s  net  farm  income  includes  $1.5-$2 
billion  in  net  value  of  production  for  goods  and  services 


1 


Illustration  1-Relationship  of  net  cash  income, 
returns  to  operators,  and  net  farm  income,  1992 

Million  dollars 


Gross  cash  income 

187,890 

-  Cash  expenses 

130,167 

=  Net  cash  income 

57,723 

+  Noncash  income 

Laborers’  dwellings  gross  rent 
Home  consumption 

1,148 

553 

595 

+  Value  of  inventory  change 

3,761 

-  Noncash  expenses 

Labor  perquisites 

Net  capital  consumption  1/ 

15,261 

558 

14,703 

=  Returns  to  operators 

47,371 

+  Operators’  dwellings  gross  rent 

4,942 

-  Operators’  dwellings  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

Interest 

Repairs  &  maintenance 

Insurance 

Real  estate  taxes 

3,666 

1,727 

586 

198 

604 

551 

=  Net  farm  income 

48,647 

1/Equals  sector  capital  consumption  less  nonoperator 
landlord  capital  consumption. 


consumed  on  the  farm  where  produced  but  never  sold, 
which  does  not  get  reported  on  Schedule  F  because  there 
is  no  two-party  market  transaction  to  establish  value. 

Two  examples  are  the  imputed  net  rent  for  operator 
dwellings  ($1.44  billion)  and  home  consumption,  which 
we  can  only  say  is  less  than  the  $625.5  million  of  gross 
value,  since  we  cannot  separate  the  expenses  from  the 
other  farm  expenses. 

In  another  significant  aspect,  the  IRS  has  reported  that 
its  research  of  income  measures  for  small  firms  across  all 
industries,  including  farming,  has  found  substantial 
problems  with  underreporting  of  net  income  for  purposes 
of  determining  tax  liabilities.  Without  a  thorough 
evaluation  of  the  IRS  data  on  tax  compliance,  it  is 


impossible  to  report  the  amounts  of  income  involved 
even  though  the  magnitude  could  be  established. 

Another  difference  in  USDA  and  IRS  income  statistics  is 
that  several  hundred  thousand  individuals  file  a  tax 
return  using  the  farm  Schedule  F  but  are  not  accepted  as 
farmers  by  USDA  in  its  definition  of  the  farm  sector  and 
its  data  collection  activities.  For  USDA  to  classify  an 
operation  as  a  farm,  it  must  have  (or  normally  would 
have)  farm  product  sales  valued  at  $1,000  or  more.  The 
individuals  not  accepted  as  farmers  by  USDA  do, 
however,  report  farm  returns  to  the  IRS,  and  on  average, 
these  individual  tax  return  filers  report  a  loss  of  several 
thousand  dollars  on  their  Schedule  F. 

A  recent  GAO  report  supports  the  validity  of  USDA’s 
net  farm  income  as  a  measure  of  the  net  value  of 
production  of  goods  and  services  produced  by  the  U.S. 
farm  sector,  designed  to  be  conceptually  consistent  with 
the  Department  of  Commerce’s  (DOC)  Gross  Domestic 
Product  (GDP),  and  providing  DOC  a  source  for  the 
farm  sector’s  contribution  to  GDP.  The  report  identifies 
the  conceptual  and  empirical  dissimilarities  between 
USDA’s  net  farm  income,  representing  value  added  by 
the  factors  of  production  controlled  bv  farm  operations. 

and  IRS’s  summation  of  Schedule  F’s  filed  only  by 
individuals,  who  independently  decide  which  forms  to 
employ  in  reporting  their  taxable  incomes.  (See  boxed 
item  regarding  GAO  report  on  USDA  farm  income 
series,  p.  13) 

Data  Sources  and  Estimation  Methods 

State  farm  income  components  are  derived  in  several 
ways.  Information  on  estimation  methods  may  help  users 
to  interpret  and  apply  data  in  their  analysis  of 
relationships  and  trends. 

Data  for  the  accounts  comprising  the  four  farm  income 
measures  are  based  on  many  sources,  which  change  over 
time  as  a  result  of  improved  methodologies  and  newly 
available  data.  Differences  among  data  sources  is  the 
principal  reason  for  variations  in  the  estimation  methods 
of  State  income  components. 

The  preferred  procedure  is  to  compute  directly  State 
figures  and  then  sum  them  to  arrive  at  a  national  total. 
This  approach  is  preferred  because  it  best  reflects  the 
trends  and  current  changes  occurring  in  each  State. 

Direct  calculation  of  State  estimates  requires  reliable, 
high-quality  annual  State  data.  Cash  receipts  from  farm 
marketings  and  direct  Government  payments  are 
examples  where  detailed  annual  data  are  available  by 
commodity  and  State.  Cash  receipt  data,  by  commodity, 
State,  and  month,  are  based  on  production  data  from 
USDA’s  National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service  (NASS). 
NASS  data  are  also  the  source  of  inventory  adjustment 
and  livestock  shipments.  Data  on  direct  Government 
payments  and  Commodity  Credit  Corporation  (CCC) 
loans  made  and  repaid  come  from  USDA’s  Agricultural 
Stabilization  and  Conservation  Service  (ASCS). 


2 


For  most  components  of  farm-related  income  and 
production  expenses,  direct  estimation  of  State  estimates 
is  not  possible  because  high-quality  annual  State  data  do 
not  exist  for  these  items.  For  each  of  these  components, 
a  region  estimate  is  first  calculated  and  then  distributed 
to  the  States  using  one  of  the  three  other  procedures. 

For  estimates  of  component  accounts  at  the  region  level, 
the  Farm  Costs  and  Returns  Survey  (FCRS)  is  usually 
the  best  data  source.  The  region  estimate  for  these 
accounts  is  distributed  to  the  States  using  (1)  the 
distribution  in  the  most  recent  census  of  agriculture  or 
(2)  the  census  distribution  in  the  census  year  and  the 
census  distribution  moved  by  the  change  in  a  related  data 
source  in  the  years  between  censuses. 

The  final  method  of  calculating  State  estimates  allocates 
the  region  estimate  to  the  States  using  the  annual 
distribution  exhibited  by  a  related  data  series  selected  to 
serve  as  a  proxy  in  the  absence  of  observed  data.  State 
cash  receipts  and  balance  sheet  values  are  the  primary 
series  used. 

Illustration  2  indicates  the  estimation  methods  used  for 
the  various  components  of  gross  income.  Illustration  3 
identifies  those  expense  items  for  which  sufficient  data 
are  available  to  allow  State-level  expenses  to  be 
estimated  directly.  Illustrations  4-7  list  the  expense  items 
that  can  only  be  estimated  at  the  region  level  and  groups 
them  by  which  of  the  three  distributional  methods  are 
used  to  derive  the  States’  shares. 

Net  Farm  Income 

Net  farm  income  is  a  measure  of  the  net  value  of 
production  in  a  given  year,  reflecting  cash  and  noncash 
components  in  both  income  and  expenses.  Cash 
components  are  market-based  sales  and  purchases  in 
which  prices  are  established  and  payments  made. 

Noncash  income  includes  home  consumption  of 
commodities  produced  onfarm,  imputed  rental  value  of 
all  farm  dwellings,  and  the  value  of  change  in  inventories. 

The  value  of  change  in  inventory  eliminates  the  effects  of 
production  not  sold  from  prior  years  and  accounts  for 
current-year  production  that  remains  unsold  and  unused 
at  the  end  of  the  year.  Inventories  of  crops  typically  rise 
during  years  of  heavy  production  and  decline  when 
production  is  below  normal.  Market  prices  tend  to  be 
inversely  related  to  production  levels.  When  production 
is  high  and  prices  low,  farmers  tend  to  postpone  sales, 
hoping  prices  will  rise  in  future  months.  When 
production  is  low  and  prices  are  high,  there  is  no 
incentive  to  postpone  sales.  In  fact,  there  may  be 
pressure  to  sell  immediately  to  maintain  cash-flow. 

Noncash  expenses  include  capital  consumption  (capital 
replacement  and  accidental  damage)  and  perquisites  to 
hired  labor.  Capital  consumption  measures  the 
replacement  cost  of  durable  goods  consumed  in 
agricultural  production  through  normal  wear  and  tear, 
obsolescence,  and  destruction.  Because  they  represent 


replacement  cost,  Economic  Research  Service  (ERS) 
capital  consumption  figures  indicate  the  amount  that 
must  be  spent  on  capital  items  so  the  end-of-year  stock 
can  provide  the  same  services  as  the  beginning-of-year 
stock. 

The  net  farm  income  account  differs  from  the  other  three 
accounts  by  the  inclusion  of  income  and  expenses  related 
to  the  farm  operator’s  dwelling.  ERS  treats  the  imputed 
rental  value  of  the  operator’s  dwelling  as  income  and 
includes  expenses  associated  with  the  operator’s  dwelling: 
repair  and  maintenance,  interest,  taxes,  capital 
consumption,  and  insurance. 

Returns  to  Operators 

Returns  to  operators  are  computed  as  gross  receipts  less 
both  nonfactor  and  factor  payments  to  nonoperators. 
Conceptually,  this  measure  of  returns  is  equivalent  to  net 
farm  income  excluding  the  income  and  expenses 
attributable  to  the  operators’  dwellings.  The  sum  of 
returns  to  operators  and  the  net  rental  value  of 
operators’  dwellings  is  equivalent  to  net  farm  income. 

The  principal  component  of  nonfactor  payments  is 
intermediate  product  expenses,  which  include  farm-origin 
inputs  such  as  purchases  of  feed,  seed,  livestock,  and 
poultry,  and  nonfarm-origin  inputs,  such  as  fertilizer, 
fuel,  repairs,  storage,  and  transportation.  The  other 
components  of  nonfactor  payments  are  capital 
consumption  and  property  taxes. 

Factor  payments  are  the  income  returns  to  the  owners  of 
the  factors  of  production:  land,  labor,  and  capital. 

These  returns  are  the  sum  of  interest,  wages  to  hired 
labor,  net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords,  and  returns  to 
operators.  The  returns-to-operators  component  is  the 
net  income  earned  by  operators  for  their  labor, 
management,  and  capital  used  in  farming. 

Net  Cash  Income 

Net  cash  income  reflects  the  difference  between  cash 
income  and  cash  expenses  associated  with  the  farm 
business.  Net  cash  income  from  farming  is  a  measure  of 
the  funds  generated  by  farm  businesses  for  capital 
purchases,  loan  repayments,  income  taxes,  and  family 
living  expenses.  It  is  similar  to  the  concept  of  cash-flow 
with  the  exception  that  loan  transactions  are  omitted. 

Net  Business  Income 

Net  business  income  measures  earnings  by  farmers.  It 
equals  the  value  of  net  cash  income  minus  capital 
consumption,  which  is  the  sum  of  capital  replacement 
and  accidental  damage  to  farm  equipment  and  buildings. 
This  measure  corresponds  closely  to  accounting  methods 
used  by  most  farmers  to  compute  their  taxable  incomes. 
Under  the  IRS’s  cash  accounting  method,  income  is 


3 


Illustration--2  Gross  Income:  Basis  of  State  distribution  for  individual  components 

Allocation  of  national  estimate  based  on: 


Item 

Direct 

calculation 

Census  of  Number 

agriculture  of 

farms 

Cattle  on  feed 
and  poultry 
production 

Dwelling 

values 

Gross  income: 

Cash  receipts 

✓ 

Direct  Government  payments 

✓ 

Machine  hire  and  customwork 

B 

Forest  products 

Custom  feeding  income 

Other  farm-related  income 

✓ 

B 

A 

Home  consumption,  livestock 

Home  consumption,  crops 

Imputed  rental  value  of  dwellings 

/ 

A 

A 

A  =  National  estimate  allocated  annually  by  yearly  distribution  of  indicated  data  series. 

B  =  National  estimate  allocated  annually  by  benchmark  distribution. 

Illustration--3  Expenses:  State  estimates  calculated  directly  (national  estimate  equals  sum  of  the  State  estimates) 


Account 

Calculation  procedures 

Percent  of  total 
1992  expenses 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

Sum  of  individual  estimates 

9.5 

Livestock  purchased 

NASS  State  value  of  interstate  shipments  of  cattle,  hogs,  and  sheep 
(number  *  average  weight  x  average  price) 

8.0 

Poultry  purchased 

NASS  State  number  of  poultry  hatched  x  average  prices 

1.4 

Interest:  nonreal  estate  and 
real  estate 

State  debt  and  average  interest  rates  by  lender  and  type 
(calculated  by  ERS  balance  sheet  section); 
less  FCRS  regional  interest  on  nonfarm-purpose  loans  (distributed  to 
States  by  States’  percent  of  region  from  total  calculation); 
plus  ASCS  national  interest  on  commodity  loans  (distributed  to  States 
by  commodity  loans  repaid) 

7.5 

Total  1/ 

17.0 

1/  Components  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


4 


Illustration-4  Expenses:  Regional  FCRS  estimate  allocated  to 
States  by  State/region  ratios  in  most  recent  census  of  agriculture 


Account 

Percent  of 
total  1992 
expenses 

Seed  purchased 

3.4 

Pesticides 

4.5 

Fuel  and  oil  1/ 

3.7 

Electricity 

1.8 

Machine  hire  and  customwork 

2.3 

Irrigation  water  (miscellaneous  expenses)  2/ 

0.3 

Gross  insurance  and  indemnity  payments 
(miscellaneous  expenses)  3/ 

1.9 

Contract  labor 

1.4 

Hired  labor-cash  wages  and  benefits, 

Social  Security,  and  noncash  perquisites 

8.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords- 
cash  rent  3/ 

2.5 

Personal  property  taxes  3/ 

0.5 

Total  4/ 

30.6 

1/  Annual  gasoline  tax  refunds  and  credits  are  subtracted  from 
the  State  distribution  each  year.  National-level  Federal  refunds 
provided  by  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  are  allocated  to  the 
States  using  the  same  distribution  as  for  total  fuel  and  oil 
expenses.  State-level  refunds  are  calculated  directly  using  Federal 
Highway  Administration  data.  2/  Based  on  the  1988  Farm  and 
Ranch  Irrigation  Survey  (1988).  3/  Based  on  the  Agricultural 
Economics  and  Land  Ownership  Survey  (1988)  (1988  AELOS). 
4/  Components  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


computed  as  gross  cash  income  minus  the  sum  of  cash 
expenses,  hired  labor  perquisites,  depreciation,  and  net 
casualty  losses. 

However,  the  ERS  measure  of  the  farm  sector’s  net 
business  income  does  not  agree  with  taxable  farm  income 
reported  to  the  IRS  on  Schedule  F,  because  of  several 
conceptual  differences.  One  major  difference  is  the 
treatment  of  depreciation.  IRS  allows  farmers  many 
choices  regarding  the  parameters  of  depreciation 
schedules,  and  farmers  employ  many  variations  for  tax 
purposes.  Furthermore,  farmers  depreciate  the  purchase 
price  of  their  capital  assets.  The  ERS  capital 
replacement  account  represents  economic  depreciation 
and  is  measured  at  current  replacement  cost  rather  than 
purchase  price.  Annual  expenditures  are  deflated  to  real 
dollars.  Capital  replacement  is  first  computed  in  real 
dollars  and  then  inflated  by  the  current-year  price  index. 


Farm  Operator  Household  Income 

Farm  operator  households  are  households  associated 
with  the  senior  farm  operator  who  runs  a  farm  legally 
organized  as  a  sole  proprietorship,  partnership,  or  family 
corporation.  Hired  managers  who  receive  a  share  of  the 
net  income  of  the  business  are  also  included  in  the 
household  definition.  The  2  percent  of  farms  legally 
organized  as  nonfamily  corporations  or  cooperatives,  or 
run  by  a  hired  manager  receiving  no  share  of  net  income 
are  omitted  from  the  analysis.  Income  to  farm  operator 
households  also  excludes  income  to  landlords,  contractors 
or  others  who  are  normally  considered  participants  in  the 
farm  sector. 

Data  for  estimating  farm  operator  household  income 
come  from  the  annual  FCRS.  Because  data  are  based  on 
a  survey,  sample  size  is  insufficient  to  produce  State 
estimates  of  household  income.  Estimates  are  available 
at  the  national  level  and  for  major  geographical  regions 
in  the  Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector:  National 
Financial  Summary,  and  will  not  be  repeated  here.  See 
tables  2,  27-31  and  corresponding  text  in  the  national 
summary  for  estimates  and  discussion  of  farm  operator 
household  income  by  major  occupation  of  the  operator, 
hours  of  farm  work  by  the  operator,  economic  size  of 
farm,  commodity  specialization  and  household  income 
categories.  Additional  information  on  farm  operator 
households  is  available  in  the  new  data  series,  Economic 
Well-being  of  Farm  Operator  Households. 

State  Balance  Sheet  Accounts 

The  balance  sheet  accounts  are  used  to  assess  wealth  in 
the  farm  sector.  They  include  assets,  debt,  and  equity, 
where  equity  equals  assets  minus  debt.  Assets  are  valued 
at  market  prices  on  December  31  of  each  year,  or  as 
close  to  December  31  as  possible.  Nominal  and  real 
capital  gains  on  farm  assets  and  debt  are  estimated. 
Several  financial  ratios  are  presented.  These  financial 
measures  provide  useful  indicators  of  farm  sector 
financial  performance. 

Both  operators’  and  landlords’  shares  of  the  assets  and 
debt  for  the  farming  operation  are  included.  Debt  is 
classified  as  either  real  estate  or  nonreal  estate, 
depending  upon  how  the  loan  is  secured.  If  the  loan  is 
secured  by  farm  real  estate,  then  it  is  classified  as  real 
estate  farm  debt,  regardless  of  how  the  loan  is  used. 

ERS  is  discontinuing  the  historical  balance  sheet  series 
that  included  farm  operators’  household  assets  and  debt. 
Henceforth,  a  farm  business  balance  sheet  (excluding 
operator  households)  will  be  published  for  the  farm 
sector.  This  was  decided  because  of  the  complexity  of 
separating  farm  household  accounts  between  farm  and 
nonfarm  activities.  This  complexity  has  evolved,  in  part, 
because  of  growth  in  the  importance  of  off-farm 
employment  to  farm  households. 


5 


Illustration-5  Expenses:  Regional  FCRS  estimates  allocated  to  States  by  State/region  ratios  in  most  recent  census  of  agriculture  or 
State/region  ratios  interpolated  between  censuses,  modified  by  movement  in  indicated  data  series 


Account 

Census  State/region  ratios  modifier  series 

Percent  of  total 
1992  expenses 

Feed  purchased 

NASS  State  livestock,  milk,  poultry  and  egg  production; 

ERS  regional  cost  of  production,  livestock  and  milk; 

ERS  national  feed  cost  per  unit,  poultry  and  eggs 

13.7 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

Tennessee  Valley  Authority  State  fertilizer  tonnage; 

NASS  regional  lime  prices 

5.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords-share  rent  1/ 

ERS  crop  cash  receipts  and  value  of  change  in  inventory 

3.4 

Real  estate  taxes 

ERS  real  estate  tax  survey  estimates 

3.1 

Total  2/ 

25.9 

1/  Based  on  the  1988  AELOS.  2/  Components  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Illustration-6  Expenses:  Regional  FCRS  estimates  allocated  to  States  by  annual  distribution  of  indicated  data  series 

Account 

Data  series  used  to  distribute  regional  expenses  to  States 

Percent  of  total 
1992  expenses 

Repair  and  maintenance -buildings  and  land 
improvements 

ERS  State  balance  sheet  values 

1.3 

Repair  and  maintenance-autos,  trucks,  tractors,  and 
farm  machinery  and  equipment 

Census  State  number  per  farm  (constant/interpolated); 

NASS  State  number  of  farms 

4.0 

Motor  vehicle  insurance,  license,  and  registration 
(miscellaneous  expenses) 

Census  State  number  per  farm  (constant/interpolated); 

NASS  State  number  of  farms 

0.2 

Marketing,  storage,  and  transportation 

ERS  State  cash  receipts 

3.2 

Miscellaneous,  excluding  insurance,  motor  vehicle 
license  and  registration,  and  irrigation  water 

ERS  State  cash  receipts;  NASS:  cattle  on  feed  and  State 
milk  and  broiler  production;  FCRS 

6.4 

Total  1/ 

15.1 

1/  Components  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Real  Estate  Assets 

Real  estate  assets  constitute  land  and  buildings  in  the 
farm  business  sector.  Buildings  are  divided  into  operator 
dwellings,  other  dwellings  that  are  part  of  the  farm 
operation,  and  service  structures.  Other  dwellings  are 
dwellings  that  are  not  operator  or  hired-labor  dwellings. 
Service  structures  include  hired-labor  dwellings,  grain 
storage  facilities,  barns,  machine  sheds,  and  nursery  and 
greenhouse  structures.  Real  estate  assets  are  calculated 
by  subtracting  the  value  of  operator  dwellings  and  other 
dwellings  from  the  total  real  estate  value. 

Real  estate  assets  are  calculated  for  each  State  and 
aggregated  to  a  U.S.  total.  Before  1988,  an  average  value 
of  land  and  buildings  per  acre  was  used  as  the  basis  to 
estimate  total  value  of  land  and  buildings  by  State. 
Starting  in  1988,  land  and  buildings  were  estimated 
separately.  Land  value  is  calculated  by  multiplying  the 
acres  of  land  in  farms  as  of  June  1,  published  by  the  U.S. 


Department  of  Agriculture’s  National  Agricultural 
Statistics  Service  (NASS),  times  the  State  average  value 
per  acre  of  land  as  of  January  1  of  the  following  year. 
Land  values  are  published  by  the  Resources  and 
Technology  Division  of  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture’s  Economic  Research  Service  (ERS). 

Average  land  values  are  benchmarked  to  the  census  of 
agriculture  data  and  updated  annually  using  RTD’s 
annual  Agricultural  Land  Value  Survey.  Starting  in  1987, 
the  average  land  values  for  eight  States  (New  Hampshire, 


6 


Illustration-7  Expenses:  National  estimates  not  based  on  FCRS  allocated  to  States  by  annual  distribution  of  indicated 
data  series   


Account 

National  estimate 
calculation  procedure 

Data  series  used  in 

State  distribution 

Percent  of 
total  1992 
expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator 
landlords— direct 

Government  payments  to 
landlords 

ASCS  1991  Landlord  percentage 
share  x  ASCS  total  direct 
Government  payments 

FCRS  regional  landlord  direct 
Government  payments;  ASCS 
State  total  direct  Government 
payments 

0.6 

Capital  consumption-buildings 
and  farm  machinery 
and  equipment  1/ 

FCRS  capital  expenditures; 
depreciation  rates;  USDC 
accidental  damage  estimates 

ERS  State  balance  sheet  values 

6.9 

Capital  consumption-autos, 
trucks,  and  tractors  1/ 

FCRS  capital  expenditures; 
depreciation  rates;  USDC 
accidental  damage  estimates 

Census  State  number  per  farm 
(constant/interpolated); 

NASS  State  number  of  farms 

4.0 

Total  2/ 

11.5 

1/ Replacement  cost  rather  than  purchase  price.  2/ Components  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island,  Connecticut,  New  Jersey, 
Arizona,  Nevada,  and  California)  are  adjusted  to  reflect 
the  Agricultural  Economics  and  Land  Ownership  Survey 
(AELOS)  average  values  instead  of  1987  Census  of 
Agriculture  values.  This  adjustment  is  the  result  of 
discussions  with  personnel  at  the  Bureau  of  the  Census 
to  reflect  more  accurate  average  market  values. 

Building  values,  excluding  other  dwellings,  are  added  to 
the  land  value  by  dividing  the  land  value  by  one  minus 
the  building  ratio.  The  building  ratio  is  calculated  by 
dividing  total  building  value,  excluding  the  value  of  other 
dwellings,  by  total  real  estate  value,  excluding  the  value 
of  other  dwellings.  The  relationships  of  building  values 
to  total  real  estate  values  were  obtained  in  the  1988 
AELOS  by  State.  These  ratios  are  adjusted  annually 
using  a  3-year  moving  regional  average  obtained  from  the 
Farm  Costs  and  Returns  Survey  (FCRS).  Since  FCRS  is 
a  survey  of  operators,  the  implicit  assumption  is  that  the 
portion  of  the  building  ratio  attributable  to  landlords 
changes  in  the  same  relative  magnitude  each  year  as  does 
the  operator-owner  portion. 

Operator  dwelling  values  are  derived  by  multiplying 
AELOS  dwelling  ratios  times  building  values,  excluding 
other  dwellings.  The  dwelling  ratio  is  the  value  of 
operator  dwelling  divided  by  the  total  building  value, 
excluding  the  value  of  other  dwellings.  The  average 
dwelling  ratio  changed  less  than  2  percentage  points 
between  the  1979  Farm  Finance  Survey  conducted  by  the 
Bureau  of  the  Census  and  the  1988  AELOS,  so  currently 
the  dwelling  ratios  are  being  held  constant  at  the  1988 
levels.  As  more  FCRS  data  are  collected,  this  decision 
will  be  re-evaluated  to  see  if  a  mover  system  should  be 
incorporated. 


to  the  total  land  and  buildings,  excluding  other  dwellings, 
to  obtain  the  total  value  of  land  and  buildings  by  State. 
When  a  question  about  the  value  of  other  dwellings 
owned  by  the  operation  was  added  to  the  FCRS,  the  real 
estate  values  increased  substantially.  Thus,  the 
assumption  is  made  that  the  census  of  agriculture  does 
not  include  the  value  of  these  other  dwellings  in  its  land 
and  buildings  totals,  just  as  earlier  versions  of  FCRS 
probably  missed  them  also.  Again,  as  more  FCRS  data 
are  accumulated,  this  constant  relationship  will  be  re¬ 
evaluated,  especially  for  regional  differences. 

Nonreal  Estate  Assets 

Nonreal  estate  assets  include  livestock  and  poultry, 
machinery  and  motor  vehicles,  crop  inventories,  financial 
assets,  and  purchased  inputs. 

Livestock  and  poultry.  Livestock  and  poultry  inventories 
are  reported  for  the  United  States  and  each  State  by 
NASS  for  cattle  and  calves,  hogs  and  pigs,  sheep,  and 
chickens  (excluding  commercial  broilers).  Although 
livestock  and  poultry  values  are  reported  in  the  balance 
sheet  as  of  December  31,  data  are  not  always  available 
for  that  date.  NASS  reports  inventories  of  cattle  and 
calves,  and  sheep  for  December  31.  However,  the 
balance  sheet  uses  the  NASS  inventories  of  hogs  and 
pigs,  and  chickens,  reported  as  of  December  1,  without 
adjustment.  NASS  combines  seven  States’  value  and 
number  of  sheep,  which  are  included  in  the  U.S.  total  but 
are  not  allocated  to  individual  States.  NASS  revises  data 
as  new  information  becomes  available.  Revisions  are 
incorporated  into  subsequent  balance  sheet  figures. 

Machinery  and  equipment.  Machinery  and  motor  vehicle 
values  are  estimated  for  four  main  components:  tractors, 
trucks,  automobiles,  and  other  farm  machinery.  The 
value  of  equipment  leased  from  dealers  and 
manufacturers  is  not  part  of  this  account. 


The  value  of  other  dwellings  is  calculated  as  11  percent 
of  the  value  of  operator  dwellings  based  on  relationships 
found  in  FCRS  data.  The  other  dwellings’  value  is  added 


7 


A  perpetual  inventory  method  is  used  to  estimate 
December  31  stocks  for  each  machinery  component. 

This  method  considers  current  ending  stocks  to  be  equal 
to  last  period’s  ending  stocks,  plus  capital  expenditures, 
less  accidental  damage,  value  of  losses,  and  depreciation. 
The  percentage  change  from  the  previous  year’s  value  is 
applied  to  the  previous  year’s  inventory  levels. 

At  the  State  level,  only  the  value  of  machinery  and  motor 
vehicles  is  published.  The  State  values  are  derived  from 
the  U.S.  total  value  by  using  distributors  based  on 
machinery  and  motor  vehicle  values  per  farm  from  the 
latest  census  of  agriculture  times  the  number  of  farms 
published  by  NASS.  These  distributors  are  adjusted  for 
the  intracensus  years  when  a  new  census  of  agriculture  is 
released. 

Crops.  Crop  inventories  include  all  crops  held  on  farms, 
except  those  under  Commodity  Credit  Corporation 
(CCC)  loans,  but  exclude  crops  not  yet  harvested  and 
stocks  held  by  the  processing  and  distribution  sectors. 

The  balance  sheet  also  excludes  farmer-owned,  off-farm 
stocks  because  of  insufficient  data.  Crop  inventory  data 
are  primarily  from  NASS  publications. 

Crop  categories  include  feed  grains,  food  grains,  oil 
crops,  hay  and  forage,  cotton,  tobacco,  and  other  crops. 
The  data  are  summed  for  each  crop  by  State  to  give 
national  totals.  These  U.S.  totals  include  the  value  of 
any  unallocated  stocks,  that  is,  stocks  not  allocated  to  a 
particular  State.  The  unallocated  crop  values  are 
apportioned  to  the  unallocated  States  in  relationship  to 
the  level  of  crop  production  for  each  of  these  States. 

In  1986,  the  calculation  of  crop  inventories  was  changed 
to  exclude  crops  under  loan  to  CCC.  This  change  made 
the  treatment  of  CCC  crop  loans  in  the  balance  sheet 
consistent  with  ERS  income  accounts,  which  treat  CCC 
loans  as  cash  income  because  of  the  nonrecourse 
provision  of  CCC  crop  loans.  If  the  market  price  for 
crops  stored  under  CCC  loan  exceeds  the  loan  price  on 
December  31,  the  value  of  this  difference  is  included  as  a 
farm  asset. 

Changes  in  the  date  when  NASS  reported  most  grain  and 
soybean  stocks  required  new  procedures  for  estimating 
yearend  stock  levels  beginning  in  1986.  To  estimate 
yearend  stocks  of  crops,  reported  stock  levels  closest  to 
the  end  of  the  year  are  used  as  a  starting  point.  These 
stock  levels  are  adjusted  for  production  (when  only 
beginning  stocks  of  the  crop  year  are  reported),  monthly 
marketings,  and  farm  use.  Farm  use  before  December  31 
is  estimated  using  the  FCRS  and  historical  relationships. 

Where  only  U.S.-level  data  are  available,  as  with 
cottonseed,  for  example,  the  stock  quantities  are 
distributed  to  each  State  based  on  an  allocation  method. 
For  example,  ERS  obtains  U.S.  total  farm  value  and 
quantity  of  cottonseed  inventories  as  of  January  1  from 
NASS.  The  quantity  of  cottonseed  inventories  is  then 
distributed  to  each  State  based  on  the  State’s  percentage 
distribution  of  cottonseed  production.  The  State’s 


inventory  is  then  multiplied  by  the  State’s  December 
price  received  for  cottonseed  to  obtain  the  inventory 
value. 

Financial  assets.  Financial  assets  include  items  such  as 
demand  deposits,  currency,  and  investments  in 
cooperatives.  Changes  in  values  of  financial  assets  are 
based  on  the  annual  percentage  change  for  the  United 
States  as  a  whole,  and  assume  that  farm  sector  financial 
assets  grow  at  the  same  rate.  State-level  financial  assets 
are  estimated  using  distributors  based  on  benchmark 
financial  assets  per  farm  times  the  current  number  of 
farms  as  a  percentage  of  the  U.S.  total.  The  FCRS  may 
provide  improved  data  for  allocating  farm  financial  assets 
by  State.  Separate  estimates  of  farm  financial  assets  by 
category  are  no  longer  being  published  because  of  the 
lack  of  recent  farm-level  data  to  distinguish  among  the 
various  categories  of  financial  assets.  The  balance  sheet 
accounts  include  four  categories  of  cooperatives:  farmer- 
owned  marketing  and  purchasing  cooperatives,  rural 
telephone  cooperatives,  rural  electric  cooperatives,  and 
Farm  Credit  System  (FCS)  cooperatives.  When  farmers 
become  members  of  a  farmer-owned  cooperative,  they 
purchase  stock  or  contribute  to  membership  capital. 

This  stock  is  not  traded  on  any  exchange,  but  does  have 
value  to  the  farmer  and  is  closely  related  to  the  farm 
business.  Since  only  U.S. -level  data  are  available  for  the 
net  worth  of  Federal  land  bank  (FLB)  and  of  other 
cooperatives,  State-level  estimates  are  allocated  to  each 
State  using  the  percentage  distribution  of  FCS  debt  by 
State. 

Purchased  inputs.  Purchased  inputs  include  the  value  of 
feed,  seed,  fertilizer,  fuels,  and  other  supplies.  The  U.S. 
inventory  value  is  obtained  from  the  annual  FCRS 
survey.  The  State  inventory  values  are  derived  from  the 
U.S.  total  using  a  3-year  moving  average  distributor.  A 
3-year  moving  average  is  used  at  the  State  level  because 
the  annual  FCRS  sample  size  becomes  fairly  small, 
especially  for  certain  States.  The  State  average  is  taken 
as  a  percentage  of  the  3-year  moving  U.S.  average  and 
applied  to  the  annual  U.S.  total  purchased  inputs 
inventory  value. 

Debt 

Farm  sector  debt,  as  presented  in  the  balance  sheet,  is 
limited  to  debt  reported  by  lending  institutions  and 
estimated  debt  owed  to  noninstitutional  (individuals  and 
others)  creditors.  Accrued  liabilities,  such  as  accrued 
interest  and  other  payables,  are  not  estimated  in  the 
farm-sector  balance  sheet.  Total  debt  is  reported  for 
each  lender,  with  longer  term  real  estate  debt  and  shorter 
term  nonreal  estate  debt  listed  separately.  Only  debt 
incurred  by  those  involved  in  onfarm  agricultural 
production,  either  as  operators  or  as  nonoperator 
landlords,  is  included  in  the  balance  sheet.  Debt  owed  by 
firms  and  individuals  performing  the  input  supply, 
processing,  distributing,  or  marketing  functions  for  farms 
is  excluded  from  the  balance  sheet. 


8 


Real  Estate  Debt 

Farm  sector  real  estate  debt  includes  loans  and 
mortgages  held  by  the  Farm  Credit  System  (through 
Farm  Credit  Banks  and  Agricultural  Credit  and  Federal 
Land  Bank  Associations),  the  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture’s  Farmers  Home  Administration  (FmHA), 
life  insurance  companies,  commercial  banks,  individuals 
and  others,  and  the  Commodity  Credit  Corporation  for 
loans  on  storage  and  drying  facilities. 

Real  estate  debt  is  presented  for  each  credit  source.  To 
determine  debt  levels  for  the  farm  business  account,  the 
proportion  of  each  lender’s  real  estate  debt  assigned  to 
operator  dwellings  is  deducted.  The  estimate  of  debt 
attributable  to  operators’  dwellings  is  based  on  the 
relationship  of  operator  dwelling  values  to  total  real 
estate  values  as  reported  in  the  1988  AELOS. 

FCRS  data  are  being  used  to  update  estimates  of  value 
for  operator  dwellings.  Survey  results  to  date  indicate 
that  a  larger  than  proportional  share  of  the  value  of 
operator  dwellings  is  on  farms  with  little  or  no  debt. 

This  suggests  that  debt  should  be  attributed  to  dwellings 
at  a  rate  about  half  the  dwelling  value  percentage  of  total 
real  estate  assets.  In  the  farm  business  accounts,  debt  is 
obtained  for  each  lender  by  applying  this  modified 
dwelling  value  percentage  to  total  real  estate  loans,  then 
reduced  by  the  amount  attributable  to  dwellings. 

Farm  Credit  System.  Prior  to  reorganization  of  the  FCS, 
the  balance  sheet  considered  all  agricultural  loans  held  by 
the  FLB  to  be  farm  real  estate  debt.  Following  the 
mergers  of  some  Federal  Land  Bank  Associations  and 
Production  Credit  Associations  into  Agricultural  Credit 
Associations,  reporting  of  real  estate  and  nonreal  estate 
debt  along  institutional  lines  is  not  as  distinct.  However, 
the  Federal  Farm  Credit  Banks  Funding  Corporation 
reports  national  levels  of  long-term  farm  mortgage  and 
production  and  intermediate-term  loans  in  its  annual 
information  statement. 

Since  1987,  within-district  distributions  have  been  drawn 
from  the  FCRS.  Beginning  in  1988,  Farm  Credit  Banks 
annual  reports,  for  most  districts,  have  contained 
distributions  of  total  debt  by  loan  type  and  by  State. 

These  distributions  are  checked  against  FCRS 
distributions  in  determining  final  State  debt  levels. 

Farmers  Home  Administration.  The  farm  sector  balance 
sheet  identifies  loans  made  under  specified  FmHA  direct 
loan  programs  as  farm  real  estate  debt.  Farmer  program 
loans  listed  as  real  estate  debt  include  those  for  farm 
ownership  (both  regular  and  limited  resource),  soil  and 
water,  grazing  association,  and  Indian  tribe  land 
acquisition.  Half  of  the  economic  emergency  loans  are 
considered  real  estate  debt.  Nonfarm  enterprise  loans 
are  not  considered  as  farm  debt,  since  they  involve  a  wide 
variety  of  nonagricultural  commercial  activities. 

Rural  housing  loans  with  annual  payments  and  farm 
labor  housing  loans  are  also  listed  as  farm  sector  real 


estate  debt.  The  series  excludes  FmHA  rural  residential 
loans  with  monthly  payments  because  they  usually  belong 
to  off-farm  residents  or  nonfarm  rural  residents.  FmHA 
publishes  quarterly  data  on  outstanding  principal  under 
each  of  these  loan  programs  for  the  Nation  and  by  State. 

Life  Insurance  Companies.  The  balance  sheet  lists  life 
insurance  company  farm  mortgages  as  farm  real  estate 
debt.  ERS  has  historically  obtained  data  from  the  Life 
Insurance  Fact  Book  published  annually  by  the  American 
Council  of  Life  Insurance.  The  Fact  Book  provides  a 
preliminary  estimate  of  farm  mortgages  outstanding  in 
mid-July  of  each  year. 

Commercial  Banks.  Farm  real  estate  debt  held  by  banks 
includes  loans  made  by  all  insured  commercial  banks. 
Banks  file  quarterly  reports,  commonly  referred  to  as  call 
reports,  meeting  the  joint  requirements  of  the  Federal 
Reserve  Board,  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance 
Corporation,  and  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency. 

Banks  report  loans  secured  by  farmland  as  a  component 
of  their  real  estate  loans  outstanding.  The  balance  sheet 
uses  this  number,  computed  by  State  from  the  call  report 
data,  as  farm  real  estate  debt. 

Individuals  and  Others.  Individuals  and  others  debt  is 
benchmarked  to  the  1988  AELOS.  The  current  year’s 
estimate  is  obtained  by  adjusting  the  amount  from  the 
preceding  year,  based  on  the  ERS  estimate  of  the 
proportion  of  real  estate  sales  financed  by  sellers,  as 
reported  in  Agricultural  Resources:  Agricultural  Land 
Values  and  Markets,  Situation  and  Outlook  Report.  The 
estimate  of  total  debt  to  individuals  and  others  is 
allocated  to  States  using  the  distributions  from  AELOS. 

Sellers  often  act  as  lenders  in  real  estate  transactions. 
Frequently,  the  seller  accepts  a  downpayment  from  the 
purchaser,  and  holds  a  note  and  mortgage  for  the  balance 
due.  Sellers  often  are  farmers  who  remain  active  in  the 
sector.  To  an  extent,  an  increase  in  debt  attributable  to 
seller  financing  remains  within  the  sector  as  an  asset 
(note  receivable)  of  the  selling  farmer.  Title  to  the 
property  passes  to  the  purchaser,  and  the  seller  is  the 
mortgagee.  Alternatively,  land  is  often  sold  on  a  land 
contract,  under  which  title  does  not  pass  to  the  purchaser 
until  the  completion  of  a  certain  event,  usually  the 
substantial  or  complete  payment  of  the  amount  owed  the 
seller.  Estimation  of  debt  held  by  sellers  who  financed 
the  sale  of  farmland  has  been  difficult,  due  to  the 
extensive  forbearance  on  the  part  of  seller-mortgagees, 
and  renegotiation  of  interest  rate  and  contract  terms 
between  buyers  and  sellers  as  land  values  declined  from 
1981  through  1986.  Sellers  unwilling  to  renegotiate 
contract  prices  and  terms  with  purchasers  foreclosed  and 
returned  to  farming. 

Real  estate  credit  sources  expanded  in  response  to  the 
farm  financial  stress  of  the  mid-1980’s.  Several  States 
created  or  increased  funding  for  farm  loan  boards  to  help 
farmers  obtain  credit.  The  Wyoming  Farm  Loan  Board, 
for  example,  reported  that  real  estate  loans  increased 
from  $45  million  in  1975  (less  than  11  percent  of  total 


9 


farm  real  estate  loans  in  the  State)  to  $239  million  in 
1987  (almost  37  percent).  Estimates  of  debt  held  by 
individuals  and  others  have  implicitly  accounted  for  State 
programs  only  when  such  debt  was  benchmarked  to 
census  data.  Current  balance  sheet  procedures  use 
AELOS  as  a  benchmark. 

Commodity  Credit  Corporation.  CCC  storage  and  drying 
facility  loans  are  included  as  real  estate  loans  in  the  farm 
sector  balance  sheet.  This  program  is  in  a  paydown 
position,  as  outstanding  loans  have  declined  from  $1.5 
billion  in  1980  to  less  than  $5  million  in  1991. 

Nonreal  Estate  Debt 

Farm  sector  nonreal  estate  debt  includes  loans  by 
commercial  banks,  the  FCS  (through  Production  Credit 
and  Agricultural  Credit  Associations),  FmHA,  and 
individuals  and  others. 

Total  nonreal  estate  debt  is  reported  by,  or  estimated  for, 
each  lender.  To  determine  debt  levels  for  the  farm 
business  accounts,  a  proportion  of  each  lender’s  nonreal 
estate  debt  is  assumed  to  have  been  for  nonfarm 
purposes,  and  is  deducted.  Debt  attributable  to  nonfarm 
purposes  is  based  on  the  relationship  of  farm  business 
debt  to  total  debt  as  reported  in  the  Farm  Finance 
Survey. 

Commercial  Banks.  Farm  nonreal  estate  debt  held  by 
banks  includes  loans  made  by  all  insured  commercial 
banks.  In  quarterly  call  reports,  banks  report  loans  to 
finance  agricultural  production  and  other  loans  to 
farmers  as  a  separate  item.  The  balance  sheet  uses  this 
number,  computed  by  State  from  the  call  report  data,  as 
total  nonreal  estate  debt.  For  the  farm  business 
accounts,  discussions  with  commercial  bank  loan  officers 
suggest  that  5  percent  of  these  loans  should  be  allocated 
to  nonfarm  purposes. 

Farm  Credit  System.  Before  the  FCS  reorganization,  the 
balance  sheet  identified  as  nonreal  estate  debt  all 
agricultural  loans  held  by  Production  Credit  Associations 
and  by  Federal  intermediate  credit  banks  through  other 
financial  institutions.  Now,  FCS  total  nonreal  estate  debt 
is  that  amount  reported  by  the  Federal  Farm  Credit 
Banks  Funding  Corporation  as  production  and 
intermediate-term  loans  in  its  annual  information 
statement. 

Since  1987,  within-district  distributions  have  been  drawn 
from  the  FCRS.  Beginning  in  1988,  Farm  Credit  Banks 
annual  reports,  for  most  districts,  have  contained 
distributions  of  total  debt  by  loan  type  and  by  State. 

These  distributions  are  checked  against  FCRS 
distributions  in  determining  final  State  debt  levels.  Four 
percent  of  this  amount  is  deducted  in  the  farm  business 
accounts. 

Farmers  Home  Administration.  Certain  FmHA  direct 
loans  are  recognized  as  nonreal  estate  debt  in  the  farm 
sector  balance  sheet.  Farmer  program  loans  listed  as 


nonreal  estate  debt  include  regular,  limited  resource,  and 
youth  operating  loans.  Emergency  disaster,  economic 
opportunity,  and  half  of  the  economic  emergency  loans 
are  also  considered  nonreal  estate  debt.  FmHA 
publishes  quarterly  data  on  outstanding  principal  under 
each  of  these  loan  programs  for  the  Nation  and  by  State. 

Loans  in  some  of  these  programs  are  made  to  assist 
families  during  difficult  times.  Therefore,  12  percent  of 
total  FmHA  nonreal  estate  loans  are  considered  to  be 
made  for  nonfarm  purposes.  In  the  farm  business 
accounts,  this  amount  is  deducted  from  the  reported 
total. 

Individuals  and  others.  Total  nonreal  estate  farm  debt 
held  by  individuals  and  others  is  benchmarked  to 
AELOS,  and  annually  adjusted  based  on  FCRS,  an 
annual  survey  of  farm  machinery  manufacturers’  credit 
corporations,  and  reported  Small  Business 
Administration  (SBA)  farm  loans.  In  the  farm  business 
accounts,  2  percent  of  these  loans  are  considered  to  be 
for  nonfarm  purposes. 

The  SBA  no  longer  makes  agricultural  loans.  Most  of  its 
outstanding  loans  are  disaster  loans  made  during  1977-81. 
Two-thirds  of  SBA  loans  are  secured  by  junior  hens  on 
farm  real  estate.  However,  due  to  the  questionable 
security  value  of  these  second,  third,  and  fourth 
mortgages,  all  SBA  loans  are  considered  nonreal  estate. 

Analysis  of  available  financial  data  suggests  a  close 
relationship  between  nonreal  estate  debt  held  by 
individuals  and  others  and  expenses  for  intermediate 
products.  This  relationship  is  used  in  distributing 
individuals  and  others  debt  by  State. 

Nominal  and  Real  Capital  Gains 

The  balance  sheet  considers  capital  gains  or  losses  to  be 
changes  in  asset  values  not  accounted  for  by  net 
investment.  Nominal  capital  gains  (losses)  are  changes  in 
asset  values  due  to  price  increases  (decreases)  resulting 
from  either  inflation  (deflation)  or  real  asset  appreciation 
(depreciation).  Gains  resulting  solely  from  real  asset 
appreciation  are  called  real  capital  gains.  Thus,  real 
capital  gains  represent  appreciation  in  excess  of  net 
investment  and  general  inflation. 

Capital  gains  (and  losses)  accrue  both  to  farm  assets  and 
to  farm  debt.  For  example,  as  land  prices  rise,  nominal 
capital  gains  accrue  to  the  landowner.  If  these  nominal 
capital  gains  exceed  the  rate  of  overall  inflation  (as 
measured  by  the  percent  change  in  the  Personal 
Consumption  Expenditures  (PCE)  index)  real  capital 
gains  accrue  as  well.  Similarly,  farmers  who  have 
borrowed  to  finance  farm  investments  may  also  earn 
nominal  (and  real)  capital  gains  from  one  period  to 
another  if  there  is  inflation  over  that  period.  They 
accrue  a  "capital  gain"  because  the  value  of  their  debt 
owed  to  creditors,  after  inflation,  has  fallen. 

Nominal  capital  gains  are  estimated  by  multiplying  the 
quantity  of  beginning  or  ending  stocks,  whichever  is 


10 


lower,  by  the  change  in  price  during  the  year.  Thus,  the 
estimated  gain  reflects  price  changes  but  not  any  quantity 
changes.  To  calculate  real  capital  gains,  a  similar 
procedure  is  followed,  except  that  the  price  change  is 
deflated  using  the  PCE  index. 

Capital  gains  and  losses  are  estimated  for  each  account 
and  are  used  in  estimating  the  portion  of  total  returns 
(and  rates  of  return)  to  farm  assets  and  to  farm  equity 
that  are  due  to  real  capital  gains  (losses). 

Farm  Financial  Ratios 

Farm  income  and  balance  sheet  figures  provide  data  to 
develop  farm  financial  ratios.  Key  aspects  of  farm 
liquidity,  efficiency,  solvency,  and  profitability  can  be 
assessed  using  some  common  financial  ratios  (illustration 
8). 

Liquidity  measures.  Liquidity  ratios  measure  the  ability 
to  generate  sufficient  cash  to  meet  financial  commitments 
as  they  become  due  without  disrupting  business 
operations. 

Efficiency  measures.  Assets  are  employed  to  generate 
income.  Economic  efficiency  refers  to  the  extent  to  which 
operators  use  resources  at  their  economic  disposal  to 
produce  income  without  wasted  effort  or  resources. 
Efficiency  ratios  help  to  assess  whether  assets  are  being 
used  efficiently  and  whether  sufficient  income  is  being 
generated. 

Solvency  measures.  Solvency  ratios  measure  the 
relationship  between  claims  on  the  business  and  either 
total  assets  or  farm  business  equity  and  are  computed 
entirely  from  balance  sheet  data.  The  best  measures  of 
solvency  compare  the  equity  funds  in  the  business  and 
the  claims  on  the  assets  that  are  held  by  the  creditors  of 
the  firm.  Two  such  measures  are  the  debt/asset  and 
debt/equity  ratios,  which  indicate  the  relative  dependence 
of  the  firm  on  debt  and  the  ability  to  utilize  additional 
credit  without  impairing  the  risk-bearing  ability  of  the 
business. 

Profitability  measures.  These  ratios  measure  the  overall 
performance  of  the  firm  and  its  efficiency  in  managing 
assets,  liabilities,  and  equity.  The  ratios  give  income  in 
relation  to  investment  so  that  profitability  can  be 
compared  per  dollar  of  invested  capital. 

Returns  to  farm  assets,  used  in  estimating  rates  of  return 
on  farm  assets  and  farm  equity,  is  calculated  by 
subtracting  the  imputed  return  to  operators’  labor  and 
the  imputed  return  to  farm  management  from  income 
returns  to  farm  assets  and  operators’  labor  and 
management.  The  residual  return  to  farm  equity  is 
computed  as  the  return  to  farm  assets  less  interest  paid 
on  real  estate  and  nonreal  estate  debt.  The  percentage 
rate  of  return  on  farm  assets  (equity)  from  current 
income  is  estimated  by  dividing  the  return  to  farm  assets 
(equity)  from  current  income  by  the  average  value  of 
farm  assets  (equity),  and  multiplying  by  100.  The  rate  of 


return  on  farm  assets  (equity)  from  real  capital  gains  is 
estimated  similarly,  but  uses  returns  from  real  capital 
gains  in  the  numerator  rather  than  returns  from  current 
income. 

Improvements  and  Additions  to  Accounts 

Changes  in  data  sources  and  estimation  methods  for 
production  expenses  and  "other  farm-related  income" 
underlie  the  1992  estimates  and  revisions  for  years  1988- 
91.  Utilizing  improved  statistical  methodology,  the 
National  Agricultural  Statistics  Service  (NASS)  now 
produces  from  the  annual  FCRS,  estimates  of  production 
expenses  incurred  by  farm  operators  which  are 
representative  of  all  operations  in  the  farm  sector.  NASS 
publishes  the  production  expenses  collected  on  the  survey 
annually,  with  the  most  recent  report  being  Farm 
Production  Expenses.  1992  Summary. 

Previously,  the  survey  was  known  to  not  represent  the 
entire  population,  due  to  problems  with  both  under¬ 
coverage  and  nonrespondents.  Thus,  in  developing  its  farm 
sector  income  accounts,  ERS  historically  had  bench- 
marked  its  production  expenses  to  the  census  of 
agriculture,  collected  every  5  years,  to  establish  the  level. 

In  intervening  years,  ERS  relied  on  the  FCRS  for 
indications  of  levels  and  of  magnitude  and  direction  of 
changes  in  expenses. 

For  years  since  the  1987  Census  of  Agriculture,  many 
components  of  production  expenses  and  "other  farm- 
related  income"  contained  in  this  publication  are  for  the 
first  time  based  directly  on  the  improved  FCRS  results.  As 
a  consequence,  the  sector  expenses  are  usually  consistent 
with,  but  not  necessarily  identical  to,  those  published  by 
NASS.  The  reasons  for  differences  are  twofold.  The 
survey  is  directed  at  the  48  contiguous  States;  thus,  Alaska 
and  Hawaii  must  be  estimated  separately  and  added  to  the 
48-State  statistics.  Secondly,  some  components  are 
adjusted  for  conceptual  differences.  Typically,  since  the 
survey  is  directed  more  to  farm  operators  as  opposed  to 
the  farm  sector,  the  FCRS  statistics  may  be  only  one 
component  of  the  line  item  in  the  sector  account.  For 
example,  in  many  cases,  the  sector  accounts  incorporate 
landlord  expenses,  which  are  an  addition  to  the  operator 
expenses;  but  the  operators’  component  would  be  the 
same  as  that  published  by  NASS  from  the  survey.  A 
specific  example  would  be  interest  expenses. 

Starting  with  the  1991  FCRS,  NASS  has  improved  its 
survey  expansion  procedures  to  account  more  accurately 
for  undercoverage  and  nonrespondents.  ERS  has 
historically  incorporated  adjustments  for  downward  bias 
resulting  from  undercoverage  in  the  FCRS.  As  a  result, 
the  revisions  in  the  ERS  income  accounts  are  limited 
mostly  to  adjustments  for  nonrespondents,  plus  some  fine- 
tuning  for  the  undercoverage  adjustments. 

Conceptual  differences  now  account  for  any  differences 
between  ERS  and  NASS  published  statistics  for 
comparable  expense  items.  NASS  reports  results  from  the 
FCRS  which  only  collects  data  for  the  48  contiguous 


11 


states.  ERS  estimates  expense  components  for  Alaska  and 
Hawaii.  Depreciation  reported  by  NASS  from  the  survey 
is  for  determining  taxable  income.  ERS  estimates 
economic  depreciation  or  replacement  costs  as  appropriate 
for  the  sector  accounts.  FCRS  collects  data  only  from 
farm  operators.  All  farm  sector  participants,  including 
nonoperator  landlords  and  contractors,  are  treated  as 
being  in  the  farm  sector.  ERS  estimates  earnings  and 
expenses  of  these  other  participants  in  its  sector  accounts, 
which  affects  some  components  but  not  others. 

Though  not  published  by  NASS,  a  similar  situation  existed 
in  the  ERS  income  accounts  as  to  the  data  sources  and 
estimation  methods  for  the  components  of  "other  farm- 
related  income,"  with  one  exception-forest  products. 


Other  than  the  forestry  component,  these  income 
components  are  now  likewise  based  on  the  FCRS  and  the 
above  discussion  points  regarding  expenses  are  equally 
applicable. 

The  FCRS  yields  statistically  reliable  data  from  10 
production  regions  in  addition  to  aggregate  statistics  for 
the  United  States  (48  States).  The  sample  size  is  not 
sufficient  to  produce  comparable  estimates  for  States. 
However,  the  regional  estimates  represent  a  significant 
advance  for  the  State  estimates  which  can  now  be 
generated  by  distributing  region  totals  over  several  States 
as  opposed  to  distributing  the  national  total  over  48  or  50 
States.  State  statistics  are  now  more  sensitive  to 
divergence  in  regional  economic  conditions  and  trends. 
States  are  grouped  into  regions  based  on  similarities  in 
their  agriculture,  so  regional  statistics  provide  good 
indications  of  changes  in  direction  and  magnitude  of  the 
economic  situation  in  the  member  States. 


12 


GAO  Issues  Farm  Income  Report 

The  General  Accounting  Office  (GAO)  conducted  an  investigation  of  the  differences  in  USDA’s  net  farm  income 
measure  and  an  income  total  reported  by  IRS,  computed  as  the  sum  of  taxable  income  reported  on  Schedule 
F  by  all  individuals  who  file.  GAO  issued  a  report  in  mid-1993  describing  its  findings  as  to  the  primary 
differences  in  USDA’s  and  IRS’s  net  farm  income  figures  and  providing  explanations  as  to  why  the  differences 
occur.*  In  its  explanation,  GAO  identified  the  following  five  primary  points  for  the  differences  in  USD  A  and 
IRS’s  net  farm  income  figures: 

•  IRS  and  USDA  figures  are  developed  from  two  entirely  different  universes. 

•  USDA’s  net  farm  income  figures  include  noncash  income  items  that  are  excluded  from  IRS  figures. 

•  IRS  and  USDA  report  some  sales  of  livestock  differently. 

•  IRS  and  USDA  account  for  depreciation  differently. 

•  According  to  IRS  information,  IRS  net  farm  income  figures  are  understated  because  some  tax  filers 

erroneously  report  farm  income  and  expenses 

Among  other  pertinent  points,  GAO  had  the  following  to  say: 

IRS  net  farm  income  figures  are  part  of  the  agency’s  efforts  to  publish  "pertinent  and  valuable"  facts  related  to 
the  operations  of  U.S.  tax  laws.  IRS  does  not  attempt  to  provide  a  complete  accounting  of  edl  farm-related 
incomes  and  expenses.  In  contrast,  USDA’s  net  farm  income  figures  provide  a  measurement  of  the  economic 
conditions  of  the  U.S.  farm  sector,  including  input  from  corporations  and  others  that  may  be  only  partially 
involved  in  farming. 

Data  collected  for  estimating  net  farm  income  by  IRS  and  USDA  represent  very  different  universes-farm  tax 
filers  versus  farm  operations.  The  IRS  universe  includes  (1)  individuals  and  partnerships  that  report  farm 
incomes  and  expenses  on  IRS  schedule  F  form  and  (2)  corporations  that  classify  themselves  for  tax  purposes  as 
agricultural  producers.  Using  this  definition,  IRS  net  farm  income  in  1989  was  derived  from  data  collected  from 
2.5  million  tax  filers.  The  USDA  universe,  in  contrast,  includes  farm  establishments  of  all  legal  forms  of 
operation  from  which  $1,000  or  more  of  agricultural  products  either  were  sold  or  would  normally  have  been  sold 
during  the  year.  (This  definition  is  identical  to  that  used  by  the  Department  of  Commerce  for  its  Census  of 
Agriculture.!  Using  USDA’s  universe,  net  farm  income  in  1989  represented  data  collected  from  2.2  million  farms. 

Unlike  USDA’s  universe  that  includes  only  farm  operations  with  $1,000  or  more  in  sales,  the  IRS  universe 
includes  all  tax  filers  with  no  conditions  imposed  as  to  minimum  sales.  Therefore,  tax  filers  with  less  than  $1,000 
in  farm  sales  may  be  included  in  IRS  universe.  According  to  a  qualified  analysis  done  for  us  by  IRS,  about 
450,000  or  19  percent,  of  the  individuals  filing  the  Schedule  F  in  1989  reported  farm  receipts  of  less  than  $1,000. 
Collectively,  these  individuals  reported  net  farm  losses  of  about  $1.75  billion  or  $3,900  per  tax  return. 

In  contrast,  some  farm  tax  filers  with  annual  farm-related  sales  of  $1,000  or  more  who  are  likely  to  be  included 
in  USDA’s  universe  may  be  excluded  from  the  IRS  universe  because  they  do  not  have  to  file  Federal  tax  returns. 
In  1989,  a  married  couple  filing  jointly  with  gross  income  from  all  sources  of  less  than  $9,200  and  net  self- 
employment  earnings  of  under  $400  was  not  required  to  file  a  tax  return.  The  absence  of  these  types  of  tax  filers 
from  the  IRS  universe  adds  to  the  difficulty  of  trying  to  make  IRS’s  and  USDA’s  universe  comparable. 
Furthermore,  while  the  IRS  universe  excludes  farm  income  and  expenses  from  corporations  that  classify 
themselves  as  something  other  than  agricultural  producers,  USDA’s  universe  includes  farm-related  incomes  and 
expenses  from  corporations,  regardless  of  how  the  corporations  are  classified  for  tax  purposes. 

GAO  advises  that  data  users  must  exercise  caution  when  using  either  of  the  agency’s  aggregate  figures  to  portray 
the  financial  condition  of  U.S.  farms.  Caution  is  necessary  because  dependence  on  any  one  figure  could  present 
a  misleading  picture  of  the  financial  conditions  of  different  groups  within  the  farm  sector. 

*  General  Accounting  Office,  Net  Farm  Income:  Primary  Explanations  for  the  Difference  Between  IRS  and  USDA  Figures. 
Report  to  The  Honorable  J.  Robert  Kerrey,  U.S.  Senate  (GAO/GGD/RCED-93-1 13),  June  1993. 


13 


Illustration  8- -Definition  of  financial  ratios 


Ratio 


Computation  method 


Significance 


Liquidity: 

Farm  business  debt  Net  cash  farm  income 

service  coverage  Interest  +  principal  payments 


Debt  servicing  Interest  +  principal  payments 

Gross  cash  farm  income 


Times  interest  Net  farm  income  before 

interest  and  taxes 

Interest  payments 


Efficiency : 

Gross  ratio  Cash  operating  expenses 

Gross  cash  farm  income 


Interest  to 
gross  cash 
income 


_ Interest _ 

Gross  cash  farm  income 


Asset  turnover 


Gross  cash  farm  income 

Farm  business  assets1 


Net  cash  farm 
income  to  debt 
(debt  burden  ratio) 


Net  cash  farm  income 

Farm  business  debt1 


Leverage  index  Rate  of  return  on  equity 

Rate  of  return  on  assets 


Measures  the  farm 
business's  ability  to 
repay  both  interest  and 
principal 

Measures  the  share  of 
the  farm  business's 
gross  income  needed  to 
service  debt 

Measures  the  farm 
business's  ability  to 
service  debt  out  of 
net  income  earned 


Measures  the  proportion 
of  gross  cash  farm 
income  absorbed  by  cash 
operating  expenses 

Measures  the  share  of 
gross  cash  farm  income 
committed  to  interest 
payments 

Measures  the  gross  farm 
income  generated  per 
dollar  of  farm  business 
assets 

Measures  the  burden 
placed  on  net  cash  farm 
income  to  retire 
outstanding  debt 

Indicates  whether  the 
use  of  financial 
leverage  is  beneficial 


continued- - 


14 


Illustration  8  - -Definition  of  financial  ratios  - -continued 


Ratio 


Computation  method 


Significance 


Solvency : 

Debt  to  assets 


Debt  to  equity 


Profitability : 

Rates  of  return  on 
assets : 


Real  capital  gains 


Rates  of  return  on 
equity : 

Current  income 


Profit  margin 


Farm  business  debt 

Farm  business  assets 


Debt 

Equity 


Real  capital  gains 
on  farm  business  assets 

Farm  business  assets1 


Returns  to  farm  assets 
from  current  income 
_ less  interest _ 

Farm  business  equity1 


_ Net  farm  income 

Gross  cash  farm  income 


Measures  debt  pledged 
against  farm  business 
assets,  indicating 
overall  financial  risk 

Measures  the  relative 
proportion  of  funds 
invested  by  creditors 
and  owners 


Measures  how  efficiently 
the  farm  business  uses 
its  assets;  the  per- 
dollar  return  on  farm 
assets  (from  current 
income  only) 

The  per  dollar  return  on 
farm  assets  from  real 
capital  gains 


Measures  the  returns  to 
equity  capital  employed 
in  the  farm  business 
from  current  income 

The  per  dollar  return  on 
farm  equity  from  real 
capital  gains 

Measures  profits  earned 
per  dollar  of  the  value 
of  farm  production 


Current  income  Returns  to  farm  assets 

from  current  income 

Farm  business  assets1 


Real  capital  gains  Real  capital  gains 

on  farm  business  assets 

Farm  business  equity1 


1  Asset,  debt,  and  equity  values  are  an  average  for  December  31  of  the  current 
and  previous  years . 


15 


Table  1--Summary  of  the  farm  sector's  financial  status,  by  State,  1992 


Including  operator  dwellings 

: 

Excluding  operator  dwellings 

State 

Gross  farm  : 

i ncome  1 /  : 

Production  :  Net  farm  : 

expenses  :  income  : 

Returns  to  : 
operators  2/  : 

Net  cash  : 

i ncome  2/  : 

Net  business 
income  2/ 

1  VII  1  101  a - 

Alabama 

3,369 

2,228 

1,141 

1,106 

1,320 

1,084 

Alaska 

33 

27 

6 

5 

9 

4 

Arizona 

1,954 

1,359 

595 

591 

689 

623 

Arkansas 

5,398 

3,993 

1,405 

1,387 

1,602 

1,306 

California 

19,539 

14,783 

4,756 

4,761 

5,562 

4,774 

Colorado 

4,426 

3,479 

947 

925 

1,190 

955 

Connecticut 

527 

337 

190 

183 

213 

182 

Delaware 

696 

561 

135 

132 

159 

130 

Florida 

6,372 

3,595 

2,777 

2,776 

2,985 

2,751 

Georgia 

4,716 

3,036 

1,681 

1,650 

1,861 

1,584 

Hawai i 

581 

554 

27 

31 

73 

38 

Idaho 

3,025 

2,086 

939 

923 

1,174 

972 

I llinois 

9,268 

7,569 

1,699 

1,636 

1,557 

669 

Indiana 

5,469 

4,740 

729 

670 

758 

169 

Iowa 

12,111 

9,646 

2,465 

2,413 

2,660 

1,612 

Kansas 

8,384 

6,661 

1,723 

1,698 

1,831 

1,274 

Kentucky 

3,821 

2,514 

1,307 

1,262 

1,498 

976 

Louisiana 

2,259 

1,769 

491 

472 

646 

459 

Maine 

550 

413 

138 

132 

202 

151 

Maryland 

1,596 

1,208 

388 

372 

454 

331 

Massachusetts 

556 

356 

200 

189 

227 

180 

Michigan 

3,787 

3,206 

581 

580 

992 

547 

Minnesota 

7,976 

6,495 

1,481 

1,433 

2,199 

1,355 

Mississippi 

3,211 

2,538 

674 

637 

796 

574 

M i ssour i 

5,127 

4,253 

875 

787 

1,028 

426 

Montana 

2,085 

1,623 

463 

431 

753 

520 

Nebraska 

9,970 

7,278 

2,692 

2,674 

2,855 

2,296 

Nevada 

268 

211 

56 

54 

108 

85 

New  Hampshire 

184 

139 

45 

37 

49 

27 

New  Jersey 

770 

557 

213 

195 

251 

177 

New  Mexico 

1,674 

1,183 

491 

478 

557 

472 

New  York 

3,174 

2,552 

622 

628 

971 

609 

North  Carolina 

6,088 

3,635 

2,453 

2,428 

2,658 

2,317 

North  Dakota 

3,809 

2,718 

1,091 

1,080 

1,313 

891 

Ohio 

5,096 

3,882 

1,214 

1,140 

1,417 

798 

Oklahoma 

4,350 

3,267 

1,083 

1,006 

1,311 

950 

Oregon 

3,019 

2,323 

696 

666 

942 

694 

Pennsylvania 

4,009 

3,177 

832 

799 

1,149 

693 

Rhode  Island 

80 

45 

36 

34 

38 

34 

South  Carolina 

1,362 

1,023 

338 

325 

438 

305 

South  Dakota 

3,953 

2,558 

1,395 

1,370 

1,405 

1,060 

Tennessee 

2,606 

1,998 

608 

555 

875 

458 

Texas 

14,236 

10,772 

3,464 

3,280 

3,972 

2,870 

Utah 

893 

612 

281 

264 

300 

211 

Vermont 

529 

396 

133 

129 

153 

97 

Virginia 

2,495 

1,868 

627 

598 

819 

525 

Washington 

5,007 

3,670 

1,337 

1,329 

1,673 

1,375 

West  Virginia 

440 

361 

79 

69 

150 

65 

Wisconsin 

5,971 

5,160 

811 

825 

1,642 

859 

Wyomi  ng 

922 

683 

239 

227 

241 

172 

United  States  4/ 

197,741 

149,094 

48,647 

47,371 

57,723 

41,682 

1/  Gross  farm  income  includes  the  value  of  inventory  adjustment.  2/  See  table  4  for  components  of  income  accounts. 


16 


Table  2--Leading  States  for  cash  receipts,  1992  1/ 


Top  10  States  by  their  value  of  cash  receipts 


Conmodities 

Rank:  Value 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

Million 

dollars 

""btat©  ana  million  aoiiars" 

Total 

CA 

TX 

IA 

NE 

IL 

MN 

KS 

FL 

UI 

NC 

171,168 

18,234 

11,620 

10,330 

8,783 

7,634 

7,082 

7,000 

6,145 

5,499 

5,181 

Livestock 

1 

TX 

NE 

IA 

CA 

KS 

UI 

MN 

CO 

NC 

AR 

&  poultry 

86,358 

7,523 

5,674 

5,614 

5,055 

4,558 

4,313 

3,622 

2,955 

2,795 

2,702 

Crops 

2 

CA 

IL 

FL 

IA 

TX 

MN 

NE 

UA 

IN 

OH 

84,810 

13,179 

5,431 

4,985 

4,716 

4,097 

3,460 

3,109 

2,922 

2,684 

2,587 

Cattle  and 

1 

TX 

NE 

KS 

CO 

IA 

OK 

CA 

SD 

MN 

MO 

calves 

37,882 

5,645 

4,620 

4,069 

2,526 

2,071 

1,931 

1,423 

1,296 

972 

882 

Dairy 

2 

UI 

CA 

NY 

PA 

MN 

TX 

MI 

UA 

OH 

IA 

products 

19,848 

3,133 

2,608 

1,528 

1,485 

1,250 

760 

711 

646 

624 

543 

Corn 

3 

IL 

IA 

NE 

IN 

MN 

OH 

KS 

TX 

MO 

MI 

14,742 

2,780 

2,579 

1,913 

1,282 

1,224 

779 

477 

464 

452 

402 

Soybeans 

4 

IL 

IA 

IN 

MN 

MO 

OH 

AR 

NE 

SD 

KS 

11,343 

2,026 

1,918 

1,011 

988 

807 

786 

543 

496 

308 

299 

Hogs 

5 

IA 

IL 

MN 

NE 

IN 

NC 

MO 

SD 

OH 

KS 

10,088 

2,741 

1,042 

865 

777 

739 

730 

455 

347 

324 

272 

Broi lers 

6 

AR 

GA 

AL 

NC 

MS 

TX 

MD 

DE 

CA 

VA 

9,156 

1,530 

1,268 

1,195 

856 

665 

554 

404 

402 

351 

330 

Greenhouse 

7 

CA 

FL 

TX 

OH 

MI 

NY 

OR 

NC 

PA 

OK 

and  nursery 

8,999 

1,882 

1,024 

628 

471 

387 

375 

370 

317 

305 

274 

Uheat 

8 

ND 

KS 

MT 

OK 

UA 

MN 

TX 

SD 

ID 

CO 

7,641 

1,295 

1,124 

507 

493 

452 

402 

388 

381 

345 

237 

Cotton 

9 

CA 

TX 

MS 

AR 

LA 

AZ 

TN 

GA 

AL 

MO 

5,207 

1,122 

1,034 

668 

520 

429 

304 

247 

213 

172 

157 

Eggs 

10 

CA 

GA 

AR 

IN 

PA 

TX 

NC 

AL 

OH 

MS 

3,389 

278 

270 

265 

212 

197 

182 

180 

170 

170 

96 

Tobacco 

11 

NC 

ICY 

TN 

SC 

VA 

GA 

OH 

IN 

CT 

FL 

2,961 

1,050 

877 

246 

190 

190 

170 

42 

35 

33 

32 

Hay 

12 

CA 

UA 

CO 

KS 

TX 

ID 

IA 

PA 

NE 

NM 

2,913 

449 

138 

136 

130 

122 

121 

113 

107 

104 

104 

T  urkeys 

13 

NC 

MN 

AR 

CA 

MO 

IN 

VA 

IA 

UI 

TX 

2,387 

475 

283 

197 

194 

164 

147 

138 

91 

2/ 

2/ 

Potatoes 

14 

ID 

UA 

CA 

ND 

ME 

UI 

FL 

OR 

MI 

MN 

2,033 

526 

291 

131 

117 

113 

113 

93 

90 

82 

79 

Tomatoes 

15 

FL 

CA 

VA 

OH 

GA 

NJ 

MI 

SC 

IN 

PA 

1,819 

2/ 

749 

2/ 

40 

30 

2/ 

23 

2/ 

18 

18 

Grapes 

16 

CA 

UA 

NY 

PA 

AZ 

MI 

OR 

GA 

OH 

AR 

1,713 

1,552 

67 

38 

15 

12 

10 

10 

3 

3 

2 

Apples 

17 

UA 

CA 

NY 

MI 

PA 

VA 

OH 

NC 

OR 

UV 

1,684 

913 

179 

129 

100 

46 

36 

25 

23 

22 

17 

Oranges 

18 

FL 

CA 

AZ 

TX 

1,616 

1,076 

525 

14 

1 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Sorghun 

19 

TX 

KS 

NE 

MO 

AR 

IL 

OK 

LA 

NM 

MS 

grain 

1,397 

556 

317 

204 

84 

61 

32 

30 

27 

23 

16 

Peanuts 

20 

GA 

TX 

AL 

NC 

VA 

OK 

FL 

NM 

SC 

AZ 

1,286 

552 

183 

180 

126 

81 

77 

58 

19 

9 

0 

Rice 

21 

AR 

CA 

LA 

TX 

MS 

MO 

1,232 

531 

211 

186 

152 

116 

36 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Sugarbeets 

22 

CA 

ND 

MI 

UY 

NE 

MT 

CO 

TX 

OR 

OH 

1,109 

146 

134 

118 

55 

54 

47 

38 

26 

15 

13 

Lettuce 

23 

CA 

AZ 

CO 

NM 

NY 

NJ 

OH 

FL 

UA 

MI 

1,108 

877 

172 

16 

9 

8 

7 

4 

4 

2 

1 

Cane  for  sugar 

24 

FL 

LA 

HI 

TX 

922 

478 

214 

196 

33 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Barley 

25 

ND 

MT 

ID 

MN 

UA 

CA 

CO 

SD 

UY 

OR 

852 

263 

146 

143 

85 

48 

27 

23 

23 

21 

19 

n.a.  =  not  applicable.  1/  Additional  information  about  ranking  of  States  and  conmodities  by  cash  receipts  can  be 
found  in  the  annual  report  "Ranking  of  States  and  Conmodities  by  Cash  Receipts."  ERS,  USDA  published  annually  in  the 
early  fall.  2/  Cash  receipts  data  excluded  to  avoid  disclosure  of  confidential  information  about  individual  producers. 


17 


c/> 

a 


£ 

! 

L. 

ft 

4-» 

<0 

4-» 

CO 

to 

© 


co 


fl 

is 

'*  CO 

4=fi. 


ft 

li 


fl 

is 

'  CO 

j£. 

ft 

li 

**  CO 

j=tL 


ft 

li 

'  CO 

jrfi. 


3 


■fi 


SrsfcwgpaSfg  *®%mU*** 

^rvJ>£NOOOv£^r-S 

1 8 

tlttls  R 


III 

8*58  3 

3?£.jK£ 


r-  > 

c 


4-*  4->  T!  4-»  4-*  >.4 
Q(OLfflQCD«I}(D<D(D 
UUGUUXUQQQ 


.^s,^.^-|e£:'§E 

CDjCDCDCUOQcq  — *  Q 
Q(^QQQWUOCDU 

«aBSisi83*8 

n  i 


RS°'Ro'fcc0KI3fO 

III 

885 


VO  rvj  r-  «-  f\j  sO  h~  ***  br 

&  KHRKtQ^M~ja 


1331 

fchggi5SgSa 


sfegBSSE*0* 


CO  8 

,  -  CO  O  QJ 

|S.^sl  aSaEis 

C  o  CD ••—  L  r  &  Q  b  (T3 
uaoQ'Ojiuuhu 


f\ir\jc0'4-0^rsjmoro 

T 

3 

iSltSaSSsS 

SfclCfcFCgagpfS 

sr^io-^fvj 

f»siiiji 

sifllfl 

ssgaassirs 


asissssgsg 


•  •  4-f  §•--§•£ 

CDCDQbCQCDOC  _ 
UQUWUUQWOQ. 

r-  in  in  >0  ir> *—  >5  o  rvj 
«— **I CSJCsT  r-" T-" 


I  «! 

C  §5  Chi  !?£«»£ 

©  ^  ©  o>  osii^iD 

efS'i-ssIlei 

maumauumoco 

gsggSggagg 


R8S£'8S0rfc 

fO'OWfyirilOQT-QQj 

fe  iS  <M  s?  <-  ^ 

csT  rsTinrsT  r-s c\T 


(\J*-(\J«- 

*-«-T-ro(\ir\jvO^^^ 

.E  SE  Jj.E-E 
iS5<3<32S 

SEgasi&sss 

cnjVcsjV 

ro  vt-  * — tr-KiNLmnN 


$  i 

,3 

aT 


8  co  co 
2>  8  g  o_© 
*-•  i-  u  cO  ■*-»  ©  *->  <D,'r 

■M  C  C  0)4->jD  4->  4->  o 

38823Z88& 

« —  in  CM  -vf  C\J  * —  « — 


®smmm 

*— cm  «— in  vj- «— 


NNiAfOOT-NNf\lvt 

ii^r 

jjg£  888||| 

^>.gi?}?i?i?  O? 

_c  L.  L.  4_»  4_*  4-*  4->  4->  [_.£- 
T*r-  •—  4-*  4-»  4-*  4-*  4-»  ••-  T_ 
t_fUlDQlD(DCDfnfDLl 
UQQUUUUUQa 


L  iifl, 

8  2  co88^ 

c?  8  b  a)  _©  8 

*y  L* cn  co JqTZTj  £j-  m 
*->•—  jQ  © >*4-*  4-*,—  T_4j 
©  ©75^  Qcu  ©  id  l  o 

UQH  JlOUUQGH 


to 


«-  f\J  <\J  rvj  «- 


SgS5ta?3RB« 

^rOf'O'O^i/Mnco^m 


ST  >»co  co  -3 

XOXCOQOQGlUU 

rvJrocdiAN-vj-rO'sj-  «— 


.  j 

o  8  co  ©8 

h.5ft^  5^h.ft 

\  cu  <u  \  cl;  <D 
C-  JZ‘—  *->  C  <P  JC  t-*  L."- 
cot  2  ra  O^cIdcd  2 

QCJCOUUJCDUQCQ 


J  £  JI£££e  >. 

>Q©©tcD©©Q© 

rOQ^OQOQOlC 


N-m 

iOio 


.||| 

o  ©  ©  © 

_ 

r  c;a>a>a;(U 

T  l_  4-»  L.  4J**“  4-» 

5  •»-  4-*-—  y  Ov  Ov 
‘©QCD©c_coc_ra 
DUOUCDUmU 


«S!5St3KPiOR!3 

oj>j->OCNjror'00'«— «— in 
irT  ro 

co<— *— r\JirwQ«— o»— p 
c\j  ro«—  cnj  ro  c\J 

||||«|  |»| 

888828  32S 

W  W  Q_\  \  cL\ 

4-*  4-»  4-»  4-*  Ly-^  4-»  L4J 
4-»  4-<  4-»  4-J -r-  4-<  Q.4-*  ••—  4-* 

<3  <3(3  <3  2  <3  ^3  3  <3 

sassesg*®  I 

-vv  ~  o5 


*  ro  st  r 


o  c> 

KT 


S  st  r 

-**i lf\T  c\T 


c\T  in 


O  r-  Ps-  in  st  N-  in  in 


t  'O'- 
ruN.^ «toM» 


g»@i®3sS 

CM  T-  Nf  CO  >t*  >oV 

•ro  ^ 

gsgSi^Ss^-2  -  |g  if)?'-  ^ 

©  o  ch-  t_  g  2- r-  p>  o  C  (0  cn“co  Q)—> 

telg|Po|  gf^gfcgji 

<<<<UU0QU.0  3:  —  — 


ro  lOrjsjr*- ^-'*00* 

U)  <u 


5? 

O'OininMromcNjKi'O  m 

^v*  sr'  $ 

0s  CO  P  cQ  ^  'i  ^  fo  C>ro  c o 
ojocMpSinrOin^O'S-  >0 
Kj  1-  so  S-  vt «-  vt  ro  vj-  K  «- 


*— cMinmstmcMm  *—  toro*—  cm  vt  in 


8  ©  8:  ^ 

(D*«-  g.^-  Q  Ct3  iutjX"3 

hmmzz 


8  8 

••—  CD  CU-Q*'-  © 

— '  4~>  •»-  C  — '  *-* 

8  0  0  c  ft  o  o 

c_  ^  aJ— »  c- 

ego  g  co  (tg  ^ 

^°£5ol§»8-8£  £ 

2  S  o  2  ©;§  s  3 

zzzzOOOa.a:i 


to  ft 
c  ^ 

5  5>c  to 
<0 -M  c—  _ 

EcP>e?  ^ 


illli>ii33: 


U8 


18 


1/  All  cash  receipts  data  are  reported  in  million  dollars.  Additional  information  about  ranking  of  States  and  conrodities  by  cash  receipts  will  no  longer  appear  in  this  report  and  can 
four!  in  the  arrual  report  "Ranking  of  States  and  Ccnmodities  by  Cash  Receipts,"  ERS,  USDA  published  annually  in  the  early  fall.  2/  Cash  receipts  data  excluded  to  avoid  disclosure  of 
rfidential  information  about  individual  producers. 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92 


I  tem 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

UNITED  STATES 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

Gross  farm  income 

175,807.7 

190,935.9 

196,384.7 

190,329.0 

197,741.0 

Gross  cash  income 

172,901.4 

179,807.6 

186,823.6 

184,697.6 

187,890.2 

Farm  marketings 

151,154.0 

161,164.4 

169,973.3 

168,721.5 

171,168.4 

Crops 

71,720.0 

77,042.0 

80,130.3 

81,941.8 

84,810.4 

Livestock  and  products 

79,434.0 

84,122.4 

89,843.0 

86,779.7 

86,358.0 

Government  payments 

14,479.8 

10,886.7 

9,298.0 

8,214.4 

9,168.9 

Farm-related  income 

7,267.6 

7,756.5 

7,552.3 

7,761.8 

7,552.8 

Noncash  income 

6,312.9 

6,315.6 

6,180.2 

5,922.9 

6,089.8 

Value  of  home  consumption 

730.9 

667.6 

689.2 

620.9 

594.8 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

5,582.0 

5,648.0 

5,491 .0 

5,302.0 

5,495.0 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

5,048.6 

5,112.5 

4,987.1 

4,778.2 

4,942.4 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

533.4 

535.5 

503.9 

523.8 

552.6 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-3,406.6 

4,812.7 

3,380.9 

-291.6 

3,761.0 

Total  production  expenses 

137,026.4 

144,029.0 

149,896.8 

150,306.6 

149,094.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

81,801.9 

86,444.0 

90,161.8 

91,923.1 

90,439.4 

Farm  origin 

37,071.3 

38,281.2 

39,741 .6 

38,721.9 

38,530.7 

Feed  purchased 

20,246.2 

20,743.6 

20,387.4 

19,330.5 

19,832.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

12,763.6 

13,137.6 

14,833.0 

14,272.4 

13,780.1 

Seed  purchased 

4,061.5 

4,400.1 

4,521 .3 

5,119.1 

4,918.3 

Manufactured  inputs 

18,987.2 

20,609.6 

21,971 .0 

23,228.6 

22,736.1 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

7,680.7 

8,177.2 

8,210.1 

8,671.1 

8,339.5 

Pesticides 

4,146.0 

5,012.8 

5,364.1 

6,324.4 

6,475.0 

F  ue l  and  o i  l 

4,800.2 

4,771.9 

5,790.4 

5,599.2 

5,310.8 

Electricity 

2,360.3 

2,647.6 

2,606.5 

2,633.9 

2,610.8 

Other 

25,743.4 

27,553.2 

28,449.2 

29,972.5 

29,172.6 

Repair  and  maintenance 

7,717.4 

8,407.1 

8,552.9 

8,630.3 

8,469.0 

Other  miscellaneous 

18,026.0 

19,146.2 

19,896.3 

21,342.2 

20,703.6 

Interest 

14,254.7 

13,850.0 

13,267.6 

12,087.7 

11,385.4 

Real  estate 

7,580.7 

7,189.6 

6,739.5 

5,963.3 

5,592.2 

Nonreal  estate 

6,674.0 

6,660.4 

6,528.1 

6,124.4 

5,793.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

10,953.5 

11,927.5 

13,950.3 

13,926.2 

14,059.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

7,683.6 

8,730.5 

9,164.5 

9,111.6 

9,602.8 

Capital  consumption 

17,378.0 

17,863.0 

17,662.2 

17,645.1 

17,769.0 

Property  taxes 

4,954.6 

5,214.0 

5,690.3 

5,613.0 

5,837.8 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

38,781.3 

46,906.9 

46,487.9 

40,022.4 

48,646.9 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

170,759.1 

185,823.3 

191,397.5 

185,550.8 

192,798.6 

Farm  production  expenses 

133,482.2 

140,413.6 

146,135.1 

146,644.9 

145,427.7 

Nonfactor  payments 

101,136.4 

106,515.0 

110,402.1 

112,119.3 

110,930.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

80,912.9 

85,717.2 

89,289.9 

91,014.6 

89,656.0 

Capital  consumption 

15,815.2 

16,170.2 

16,039.4 

16,074.0 

16,041.2 

Property  taxes 

4,408.4 

4,627.6 

5,072.8 

5,030.7 

5,233.7 

Factor  payments 

32,345.8 

33,898.6 

35,733.0 

34,525.6 

34,496.8 

Interest 

13,708.7 

13,240.5 

12,618.2 

11,487.9 

10,834.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

10,953.5 

11,927.5 

13,950.3 

13,926.2 

14,059.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

7,683.6 

8,730.5 

9,164.5 

9,111.6 

9,602.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

37,276.9 

45,409.7 

45,262.4 

38,905.9 

47,370.9 

Gross  cash  income 

172,901.4 

179,807.6 

186,823.6 

184,697.6 

187,890.2 

Cash  expenses 

118,431.8 

125,065.5 

130,936.3 

131,363.3 

130,167.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

80,912.9 

85,717.2 

89,289.9 

91,014.6 

89,656.0 

Interest 

13,708.7 

13,240.5 

12,618.2 

11,487.9 

10,834.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

10,414.8 

11,386.2 

13,440.4 

13,375.4 

13,501.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

8,987.1 

10,094.0 

10,515.0 

10,454.8 

10,941.4 

Property  taxes 

4,408.4 

4,627.6 

5,072.8 

5,030.7 

5,233.7 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

54,469.6 

54,742.1 

55,887.3 

53,334.3 

57,722.8 

Gross  cash  income 

172,901.4 

179,807.6 

186,823.6 

184,697.6 

187,890.2 

Farm  business  expenses 

134,247.0 

141,235.7 

146,975.6 

147,437.3 

146,208.6 

Cash  expenses 

118,431.8 

125,065.5 

130,936.3 

131,363.3 

130,167.4 

Capital  consumption 

15,815.2 

16,170.2 

16,039.4 

16,074.0 

16,041.2 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

38,654.5 

38,571.9 

39,848.0 

37,260.3 

41,681.6 

Number 

Number  of  farms 

2,197,140 

2,170,520 

2,140,420 

2,105,060 

2,093,840 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


19 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


ALABAMA 


Mi l l ion  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 
Pesticides 
F  ue l  and  o i l 
E lectri ci ty 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


2,967.8 

3,229.1 

3,316.3 

3,518.3 

3,368.9 

2,832.2 

3,110.1 

3,197.9 

3,392.8 

3,258.8 

2,419.6 

2,675.0 

2,827.3 

3,006.7 

2,830.1 

725.1 

700.4 

634.0 

769.6 

767.5 

1,694.6 

1,974.6 

2,193.2 

2,237.1 

2,062.6 

114.5 

120.9 

82.2 

66.4 

119.1 

298.0 

314.3 

288.4 

319.7 

309.6 

128.8 

125.3 

112.5 

99.8 

101.1 

14.2 

10.1 

7.5 

6.7 

6.7 

114.6 

115.2 

104.9 

93.1 

94.4 

109.3 

110.6 

101.3 

90.1 

90.4 

5.4 

4.6 

3.6 

3.0 

4.0 

6.8 

-6.3 

5.9 

25.7 

9.1 

2,160.7 

2,278.3 

2,366.8 

2,294.2 

2,227.6 

1,569.6 

1,670.5 

1,746.3 

1,695.2 

1,636.7 

787.0 

808.2 

891 .8 

791.3 

821.2 

559.5 

576.9 

579.5 

530.1 

548.9 

183.5 

181.2 

258.2 

196.9 

210.5 

44.0 

50.2 

54.2 

64.3 

61.7 

243.1 

262.9 

284.3 

302.9 

276.4 

102.1 

107.3 

110.4 

117.8 

108.2 

58.0 

69.6 

73.9 

86.5 

79.4 

60.9 

62.2 

77.5 

76.8 

68.5 

22.1 

23.8 

22.5 

21.8 

20.3 

539.4 

599.4 

570.3 

601.0 

539.0 

130.4 

147.0 

152.8 

156.2 

138.0 

409.1 

452.4 

417.4 

444.8 

401.0 

156.4 

151.3 

145.1 

132.6 

126.3 

85.7 

80.7 

76.8 

68.7 

64.4 

70.8 

70.6 

68.3 

63.9 

61.8 

121.6 

127.5 

144.0 

135.1 

126.7 

20.6 

26.1 

35.1 

43.8 

44.7 

269.1 

279.3 

271.5 

264.0 

267.7 

23.5 

23.6 

24.7 

23.6 

25.5 

807.0 

950.8 

949.5 

1,224.1 

1,141.3 

2,858.5 

3,118.5 

3,215.0 

3,428.2 

3,278.6 

2,094.1 

2,217.1 

2,307.3 

2,239.5 

2,173.0 

1,807.0 

1,919.5 

1,990.8 

1,935.2 

1,881.9 

1,551.5 

1,656.3 

1,730.3 

1,679.3 

1,623.2 

235.6 

243.3 

239.2 

235.3 

236.1 

19.8 

20.0 

21.2 

20.6 

22.6 

287.2 

297.6 

316.5 

304.3 

291.1 

145.0 

143.9 

137.4 

125.4 

119.7 

121.6 

127.5 

144.0 

135.1 

126.7 

20.6 

26.1 

35.1 

43.8 

44.7 

764.4 

901.4 

907.7 

1,188.7 

1,105.6 

2,832.2 

3,110.1 

3,197.9 

3,392.8 

3,258.8 

1,859.2 

1,975.5 

2,070.5 

2,006.8 

1,939.1 

1,551.5 

1,656.3 

1,730.3 

1,679.3 

1,623.2 

145.0 

143.9 

137.4 

125.4 

119.7 

116.0 

122.6 

140.0 

131.4 

122.7 

26.9 

32.7 

41.6 

49.9 

50.9 

19.8 

20.0 

21.2 

20.6 

22.6 

972.9 

1,134.6 

1,127.4 

1,386.0 

1,319.7 

2,832.2 

3,110.1 

3,197.9 

3,392.8 

3,258.8 

2,094.9 

2,218.8 

2,309.7 

2,242.1 

2,175.2 

1,859.2 

1,975.5 

2,070.5 

2,006.8 

1,939.1 

235.6 

243.3 

239.2 

235.3 

236.1 

737.3 

891.3 

888.2 

1,150.8 

1,083.6 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


48,000 


47,000  47,000  46,000 


46,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


20 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988  ! 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

ALASKA 

Gross  farm  income 

36.8 

34.8 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

33.2 

33.1 

32.7 

Gross  cash  income 

33.8 

31.7 

30.0 

29.8 

29.1 

Farm  marketings 

30.3 

28.6 

26.7 

26.6 

25.5 

Crops 

20.3 

19.8 

19.2 

20.2 

19.6 

Livestock  and  products 

9.9 

8.9 

7.5 

6.4 

5.8 

Government  payments 

1.8 

1.1 

1.1 

1.3 

1.7 

Farm-related  income 

1.7 

2.0 

2.2 

2.0 

2.0 

Noncash  income 

3.6 

3.6 

3.3 

3.3 

3.4 

Value  of  home  consumption 

.8 

.8 

.5 

.6 

.6 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

2.9 

2.8 

2.8 

2.7 

2.8 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

2.7 

2.7 

2.6 

2.6 

2.7 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

.1 

.1 

.1 

.1 

.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-.6 

-.6 

.0 

.0 

.1 

Total  production  expenses 

25.9 

26.4 

27.0 

26.6 

26.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

12.9 

12.9 

12.7 

12.5 

12.6 

Farm  origin 

3.4 

3.5 

2.9 

2.6 

3.1 

Feed  purchased 

2.4 

2.5 

1 .9 

1.5 

1.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

.2 

.2 

.1 

.1 

.3 

Seed  purchased 

.8 

.8 

.9 

1.0 

.9 

Manufactured  inputs 

4.0 

3.9 

4.0 

4.1 

3.8 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

2.4 

2.2 

2.0 

2.2 

2.0 

Pesticides 

.1 

.2 

.2 

.2 

.2 

Fuel  and  oi l 

1.0 

1.0 

1 .2 

1.2 

1.1 

E lectrici ty 

.5 

.5 

.5 

.5 

.5 

Other 

5.5 

5.5 

5.8 

5.7 

5.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

2.5 

2.7 

2.8 

2.8 

2.7 

Other  miscellaneous 

2.9 

2.8 

3.0 

3.0 

3.0 

Interest 

2.9 

3.1 

3.0 

2.8 

2.7 

Real  estate 

1.8 

2.1 

1 .9 

1.7 

1.6 

Nonreal  estate 

1.1 

1.1 

1.1 

1.1 

1.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

2.6 

2.8 

3.3 

3.3 

3.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

.6 

.5 

.7 

.8 

.8 

Capital  consumption 

5.9 

6.0 

5.9 

5.8 

5.8 

Property  taxes 

1.0 

1.1 

1 .4 

1.4 

1.5 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

11.0 

8.3 

6.2 

6.5 

6.0 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

34.1 

32.1 

30.6 

30.5 

30.0 

Farm  production  expenses 

24.3 

25.1 

25.6 

24.9 

25.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

18.4 

18.6 

18.5 

18.2 

18.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

12.4 

12.5 

12.2 

12.0 

12.2 

Capital  consumption 

5.1 

5.1 

5.0 

5.0 

4.9 

Property  taxes 

.9 

1.0 

1.3 

1.2 

1.3 

Factor  payments 

6.0 

6.5 

7.1 

6.7 

6.6 

Interest 

2.8 

3.2 

3.1 

2.6 

2.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

2.6 

2.8 

3.3 

3.3 

3.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

.6 

.5 

.7 

.8 

.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

9.8 

7.0 

5.0 

5.5 

5.0 

Gross  cash  income 

33.8 

31.7 

30.0 

29.8 

29.1 

Cash  expenses 

19.3 

20.0 

20.7 

20.0 

20.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

12.4 

12.5 

12.2 

12.0 

12.2 

Interest 

2.8 

3.2 

3.1 

2.6 

2.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

2.5 

2.7 

3.2 

3.2 

3.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

.8 

.7 

.9 

1.0 

1.0 

Property  taxes 

.9 

1.0 

1.3 

1.2 

1.3 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

14.5 

11.7 

9.3 

9.8 

9.0 

Gross  cash  income 

33.8 

31.7 

30.0 

29.8 

29.1 

Farm  business  expenses 

24.4 

25.1 

25.7 

25.0 

25.1 

Cash  expenses 

19.3 

20.0 

20.7 

20.0 

20.1 

Capital  consumption 

5.1 

5.1 

5.0 

5.0 

4.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

9.4 

6.6 

4.3 

4.8 

4.1 

Number  of  farms 

620 

600 

Number 

580 

560 

540 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


21 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

ARIZONA 

Gross  farm  income 

2,095.0 

2,034.2 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

2,052.3 

2,026.9 

1,954.1 

Gross  cash  income 

2,089.1 

2,051.7 

1,995.9 

1,952.3 

1,955.1 

Farm  marketings 

1,959.1 

1,917.9 

1,908.6 

1,867.2 

1,835.3 

Crops 

1,167.5 

1,173.7 

1,095.7 

1,081.0 

942.8 

Livestock  and  products 

791.7 

744.2 

812.9 

786.2 

892.5 

Government  payments 

77.8 

85.1 

43.3 

40.5 

75.6 

Farm-related  income 

52.1 

48.7 

44.0 

44.6 

44.3 

Noncash  income 

39.8 

36.6 

35.9 

36.5 

37.2 

Value  of  home  consumption 

4.5 

4.5 

4.6 

4.4 

4.3 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

35.2 

32.1 

31.3 

32.1 

32.8 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

23.6 

18.7 

17.0 

15.6 

21.0 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

11.7 

13.4 

14.3 

16.5 

11.9 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-33.8 

-54.2 

20.5 

38.1 

-38.2 

Total  production  expenses 

1,366.1 

1,338.6 

1,405.6 

1,359.1 

1,359.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

872.8 

838.5 

885.9 

864.9 

879.7 

Farm  origin 

424.3 

363.8 

408.7 

384.1 

401.5 

Feed  purchased 

206.1 

177.7 

166.3 

146.3 

151.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

197.5 

163.7 

219.2 

211.6 

225.3 

Seed  purchased 

20.7 

22.4 

23.1 

26.2 

25.2 

Manufactured  inputs 

181.8 

193.3 

193.3 

193.1 

190.5 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

54.9 

56.5 

50.0 

47.2 

46.0 

Pesticides 

48.1 

53.6 

52.6 

56.3 

56.7 

Fuel  and  oi l 

39.4 

39.2 

47.5 

45.9 

40.9 

E lectri ci ty 

39.3 

44.0 

43.3 

43.6 

46.9 

Other 

266.7 

281.4 

283.9 

287.8 

287.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

39.9 

40.0 

38.6 

38.2 

49.9 

Other  miscellaneous 

226.8 

241.4 

245.4 

249.5 

237.8 

Interest 

163.3 

161.8 

157.6 

146.8 

138.3 

Real  estate 

60.6 

61.2 

59.0 

53.3 

49.9 

Nonreal  estate 

102.7 

100.6 

98.7 

93.5 

88.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

200.1 

209.7 

234.0 

219.1 

207.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

28.2 

27.8 

27.1 

25.8 

29.8 

Capital  consumption 

77.4 

75.8 

74.1 

76.2 

76.8 

Property  taxes 

24.3 

25.0 

26.9 

26.3 

27.4 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

729.0 

695.6 

646.7 

667.8 

594.8 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

2,071.5 

2,015.5 

2,035.3 

2,011.3 

1,933.1 

Farm  production  expenses 

1,347.2 

1,322.4 

1,389.0 

1,342.7 

1,342.3 

Nonfactor  payments 

957.8 

924.6 

972.4 

953.1 

968.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

867.5 

835.0 

882.3 

861.5 

876.3 

Capital  consumption 

67.0 

65.6 

64.3 

66.2 

65.9 

Property  taxes 

23.3 

24.0 

25.8 

25.4 

26.4 

Factor  payments 

389.4 

397.8 

416.6 

389.7 

373.7 

Interest 

161.1 

160.3 

155.5 

144.7 

136.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

200.1 

209.7 

234.0 

219.1 

207.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

28.2 

27.8 

27.1 

25.8 

29.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

724.3 

693.1 

646.3 

668.6 

590.8 

Gross  cash  income 

2,089.1 

2,051.7 

1,995.9 

1,952.3 

1,955.1 

Cash  expenses 

1,270.1 

1,244.6 

1,311.4 

1,259.9 

1,266.5 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

867.5 

835.0 

882.3 

861.5 

876.3 

Interest 

161.1 

160.3 

155.5 

144.7 

136.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

188.0 

195.4 

218.6 

200.4 

195.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

30.3 

29.9 

29.1 

27.9 

31.9 

Property  taxes 

23.3 

24.0 

25.8 

25.4 

26.4 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

818.9 

807.1 

684.6 

692.4 

688.6 

Gross  cash  income 

2,089.1 

2,051.7 

1,995.9 

1,952.3 

1,955.1 

Farm  business  expenses 

1,337.1 

1,310.2 

1,375.7 

1,326.1 

1,332.4 

Cash  expenses 

1,270.1 

1,244.6 

1,311.4 

1,259.9 

1,266.5 

Capital  consumption 

67.0 

65.6 

64.3 

66.2 

65.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

751.9 

741.5 

620.2 

626.3 

622.7 

Number  of  farms 

8,100 

8,100 

Number 

7,800 

8,000 

8,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


22 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


ARKANSAS 

Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm- related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
F  ue l  and  o i l 
E lectrici ty 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 

Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

Number  of  farms 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


Mi l l ion  dollars 


4,691.4 

4,974.4 

4,947.3 

5,117.8 

5,397.6 

4,506.8 

4,903.7 

4,822.9 

4,888.3 

5,268.9 

3,853.9 

4,156.9 

4,251.6 

4,241.5 

4,602.2 

1,549.7 

1,496.1 

1,550.3 

1,577.6 

1,900.5 

2,304.2 

2,660.8 

2,701.3 

2,663.9 

2,701.7 

343.9 

439.7 

312.7 

352.8 

410.0 

309.0 

307.2 

258.7 

294.1 

256.7 

101.9 

98.7 

95.9 

87.0 

84.0 

11.3 

10.4 

11.1 

10.1 

10.1 

90.7 

88.3 

84.8 

76.8 

73.9 

80.1 

77.0 

73.5 

64.4 

64.6 

10.6 

11.3 

11.3 

12.4 

9.3 

82.6 

-28.0 

28.5 

142.5 

44.7 

3,481.3 

3,870.0 

4,056.4 

4,243.6 

3,992.7 

2,370.9 

2,714.7 

2,837.0 

3,020.7 

2,802.4 

1,188.5 

1,382.3 

1,480.1 

1,496.8 

1,361.8 

907.1 

1,012.7 

1,046.9 

1,037.4 

943.0 

209.2 

291.3 

352.6 

368.0 

331.0 

72.2 

78.3 

80.6 

91.4 

87.8 

452.3 

512.1 

553.4 

612.7 

588.4 

156.8 

175.6 

166.9 

187.0 

172.1 

111.1 

143.8 

164.0 

205.3 

211.2 

129.7 

131.4 

162.0 

159.4 

143.5 

54.7 

61.4 

60.4 

61.1 

61.5 

730.1 

820.3 

803.5 

911.2 

852.2 

158.2 

169.4 

172.0 

173.5 

184.5 

571.8 

650.9 

631.5 

737.8 

667.6 

290.8 

306.5 

282.0 

256.5 

236.9 

152.9 

145.7 

137.8 

122.2 

114.6 

137.8 

160.8 

144.3 

134.3 

122.2 

204.9 

227.7 

271.7 

276.3 

266.4 

227.4 

225.8 

273.0 

305.7 

306.8 

329.3 

335.8 

329.4 

323.1 

319.5 

58.1 

59.5 

63.3 

61.2 

60.7 

1,210.1 

1,104.3 

890.9 

874.3 

1,404.9 

4,611.3 

4,897.3 

4,873.8 

5,053.4 

5,333.0 

3,425.2 

3,816.3 

4,002.3 

4,194.8 

3,945.6 

2,713.7 

3,068.1 

3,188.5 

3,368.2 

3,146.4 

2,357.3 

2,704.9 

2,826.7 

3,011.8 

2,794.6 

303.8 

309.2 

304.2 

300.1 

295.9 

52.6 

53.9 

57.6 

56.3 

55.9 

711.5 

748.2 

813.8 

826.7 

799.2 

279.2 

294.7 

269.1 

244.7 

226.0 

204.9 

227.7 

271.7 

276.3 

266.4 

227.4 

225.8 

273.0 

305.7 

306.8 

1,186.1 

1,081.1 

871.4 

858.6 

1,387.4 

4,506.8 

4,903.7 

4,822.9 

4,888.3 

5,268.9 

3,138.0 

3,523.5 

3,713.5 

3,907.1 

3,667.3 

2,357.3 

2,704.9 

2,826.7 

3,011.8 

2,794.6 

279.2 

294.7 

269.1 

244.7 

226.0 

193.7 

215.1 

258.8 

261.0 

257.0 

255.2 

254.8 

301.4 

333.3 

333.8 

52.6 

53.9 

57.6 

56.3 

55.9 

1,368.8 

1,380.2 

1,109.4 

981.3 

1,601.6 

4,506.8 

4,903.7 

4,822.9 

4,888.3 

5,268.9 

3,441.8 

3,832.7 

4,017.8 

4,207.2 

3,963.2 

3,138.0 

3,523.5 

3,713.5 

3,907.1 

3,667.3 

303.8 

309.2 

304.2 

300.1 

295.9 

1,065.0 

1,071.0 

805.2 

681.1 

1,305.7 

49.000 


48,000 


Number 

47,000 


46,000 


46,000 


conti nued-- 


23 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


CALIFORNIA 


Million  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm- related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 
Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
F  ue l  and  o i l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


17,875.3 

19,350.4 

20,239.8 

19,119.5 

17,397.9 

18,973.1 

19,982.2 

18,567.3 

16,647.0 

18,127.3 

19,205.9 

17,776.8 

11,965.2 

12,934.2 

13,672.4 

12,522.6 

4,681.9 

5,193.0 

5,533.5 

5,254.2 

335.1 

372.1 

252.3 

260.8 

415.7 

473.7 

524.0 

529.7 

442.9 

440.3 

434.9 

432.1 

32.6 

25.7 

27.8 

27.1 

410.3 

414.7 

407.1 

405.0 

307.5 

322.9 

331.7 

337.9 

102.9 

91.7 

75.5 

67.2 

34.5 

-63.0 

-177.4 

120.1 

12,061.1 

13,330.4 

14,415.1 

15,068.1 

6,782.8 

7,613.6 

7,983.0 

8,468.4 

2,550.4 

2,664.9 

2,673.5 

2,594.5 

1,664.2 

1,746.9 

1,725.0 

1,589.1 

613.0 

597.5 

593.9 

575.4 

273.2 

320.5 

354.6 

430.0 

1,646.8 

1,831.9 

1,962.5 

2,131.2 

513.7 

532.5 

533.2 

585.3 

459.1 

543.1 

568.4 

655.1 

310.9 

323.7 

410.4 

410.8 

363.2 

432.5 

450.4 

480.1 

2,585.6 

3,116.8 

3,347.0 

3,742.7 

477.6 

578.1 

596.6 

605.4 

2,107.9 

2,538.7 

2,750.4 

3,137.2 

1,216.3 

1,182.3 

1,108.3 

973.6 

648.3 

602.2 

528.1 

433.7 

568.0 

580.1 

580.1 

539.8 

2,541.0 

2,890.6 

3,510.4 

3,760.7 

298.7 

372.9 

504.8 

553.1 

906.4 

930.6 

927.5 

924.3 

315.9 

340.5 

381 .2 

388.0 

5,814.2 

6,020.0 

5,824.6 

4,051.5 

17,567.8 

19,027.4 

19,908.1 

18,781.7 

11,805.5 

13,048.1 

14,110.6 

14,759.3 

7,788.4 

8,660.9 

9,047.5 

9,526.3 

6,709.5 

7,546.6 

7,894.5 

8,366.2 

788.1 

801.3 

801.4 

800.6 

290.8 

312.9 

351.7 

359.4 

4,017.1 

4,387.2 

5,063.2 

5,233.0 

1,177.4 

1,123.7 

1,048.0 

919.2 

2,541.0 

2,890.6 

3,510.4 

3,760.7 

298.7 

372.9 

504.8 

553.1 

5,762.3 

5,979.3 

5,797.5 

4,022.4 

17,397.9 

18,973.1 

19,982.2 

18,567.3 

10,955.8 

12,201.0 

13,281.9 

13,940.1 

6,709.5 

7,546.6 

7,894.5 

8,366.2 

1,177.4 

1,123.7 

1,048.0 

919.2 

2,440.4 

2,804.0 

3,442.5 

3,702.0 

337.7 

413.7 

545.4 

593.2 

290.8 

312.9 

351.7 

359.4 

6,442.0 

6,772.1 

6,700.3 

4,627.2 

17,397.9 

18,973.1 

19,982.2 

18,567.3 

11,744.0 

13,002.3 

14,083.3 

14,740.7 

10,955.8 

12,201.0 

13,281 .9 

13,940.1 

788.1 

801.3 

801 .4 

800.6 

5,653.9 

5,970.8 

5,899.0 

3,826.6 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


84,000 


84,000  85,000  83,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


19.539.1 

19.173.7 
18,234.0 

13.179.3 
5,054.7 

430.4 

509.3 

440.8 
24.0 

416.8 

283.5 

133.3 
-75.3 

14,782.9 

8.153.4 

2.542.4 

1.629.9 

499.3 
413.2 

2.143.6 

541.5 

726.1 

391.8 

484.2 

3.467.3 

633.4 

2.833.9 

920.9 

406.7 

514.2 

3.809.1 

574.3 

923.9 

401.3 

4.756.3 

19.255.7 

14.494.4 

9.240.1 
8,082.2 

788.6 

369.3 

5.254.2 

870.8 

3.809.1 

574.3 

4.761.3 

19.173.7 

13.611.5 
8,082.2 

870.8 

3.675.2 
614.0 

369.3 

5.562.2 
19,173.7 

14.400.1 
13,611.5 

788.6 

4.773.6 


80,000 


continued- - 


24 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

COLORADO 

Gross  farm  income 

4,342.1 

4,402.0 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

4,715.5 

4,336.3 

4,426.3 

Gross  cash  income 

4,139.6 

4,312.6 

4,597.6 

4,138.5 

4,385.6 

Farm  marketings 

3,704.4 

3,967.5 

4,218.1 

3,762.2 

4,038.4 

Crops 

1,038.6 

1,319.0 

1,145.4 

1,099.0 

1,083.2 

Livestock  and  products 

2,665.8 

2,648.6 

3,072.7 

2,663.3 

2,955.2 

Government  payments 

280.5 

183.4 

236.7 

217.1 

203.2 

Farm-related  income 

154.6 

161.6 

142.8 

159.2 

144.0 

Noncash  income 

108.1 

102.5 

103.5 

98.9 

92.3 

Value  of  home  consumption 

11.2 

9.7 

9.3 

8.3 

7.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

96.9 

92.9 

94.2 

90.6 

85.2 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

87.2 

81.7 

82.4 

76.9 

75.4 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

9.7 

11.2 

11.8 

13.7 

9.8 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

94.4 

-13.1 

14.4 

98.9 

-51.6 

Total  production  expenses 

3,628.6 

3,538.5 

3,701.2 

3,491.2 

3,479.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,698.8 

2,606.4 

2,742.5 

2,602.8 

2,615.8 

Farm  origin 

1,872.8 

1,720.3 

1,834.8 

1,706.7 

1 ,739.3 

Feed  purchased 

514.9 

485.4 

445.9 

390.9 

388.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

1,301.3 

1,173.5 

1,325.7 

1,244.1 

1,282.3 

Seed  purchased 

56.6 

61.4 

63.2 

71.7 

68.9 

Manufactured  inputs 

260.8 

275.1 

283.3 

282.5 

260.0 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

84.9 

90.5 

81 .8 

81.3 

65.4 

Pesticides 

36.9 

41.1 

40.3 

43.2 

43.5 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

88.0 

86.5 

105.2 

101.6 

90.5 

Electricity 

50.9 

57.0 

56.0 

56.5 

60.7 

Other 

565.2 

611.0 

624.4 

613.6 

616.5 

Repair  and  maintenance 

122.2 

127.7 

119.9 

114.3 

130.5 

Other  miscellaneous 

443.0 

483.3 

504.4 

499.3 

486.0 

Interest 

310.1 

304.8 

297.6 

274.8 

259.4 

Real  estate 

162.0 

154.8 

146.6 

132.5 

124.2 

Nonreal  estate 

148.1 

150.1 

151.0 

142.4 

135.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

163.3 

170.9 

190.8 

178.8 

168.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

116.6 

114.0 

123.5 

92.0 

95.2 

Capital  consumption 

270.5 

271.0 

270.4 

269.0 

262.0 

Property  taxes 

69.2 

71.4 

76.3 

73.8 

78.3 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

713.5 

863.6 

1,014.3 

845.1 

946.9 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

4,254.9 

4,320.3 

4,633.1 

4,259.4 

4,351.0 

Farm  production  expenses 

3,571.2 

3,481.3 

3,641 .9 

3,436.1 

3,426.5 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,989.6 

2,903.1 

3,042.5 

2,902.2 

2,913.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,684.4 

2,596.2 

2,731.5 

2,593.2 

2,607.2 

Capital  consumption 

243.1 

242.9 

242.3 

241.9 

235.3 

Property  taxes 

62.2 

64.0 

68.8 

67.0 

71.3 

Factor  payments 

581.5 

578.2 

599.4 

534.0 

512.6 

Interest 

301.6 

293.3 

285.1 

263.2 

248.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

163.3 

170.9 

190.8 

178.8 

168.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

116.6 

114.0 

123.5 

92.0 

95.2 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

683.7 

839.0 

991 .2 

823.3 

924.5 

Gross  cash  income 

4,139.6 

4,312.6 

4,597.6 

4,138.5 

4,385.6 

Cash  expenses 

3,332.8 

3,241.7 

3,402.0 

3,193.6 

3,195.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,684.4 

2,596.2 

2,731.5 

2,593.2 

2,607.2 

Interest 

301.6 

293.3 

285.1 

263.2 

248.7 

Cash  labor  expenses 

153.3 

159.1 

178.1 

163.3 

158.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

131.5 

129.1 

138.6 

106.9 

109.5 

Property  taxes 

62.2 

64.0 

68.8 

67.0 

71.3 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

806.8 

1,070.9 

1,195.6 

945.0 

1,190.0 

Gross  cash  income 

4,139.6 

4,312.6 

4,597.6 

4,138.5 

4,385.6 

Farm  business  expenses 

3,575.9 

3,484.6 

3,644.2 

3,435.5 

3,430.9 

Cash  expenses 

3,332.8 

3,241.7 

3,402.0 

3,193.6 

3,195.6 

Capital  consumption 

243.1 

242.9 

242.3 

241.9 

235.3 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

563.6 

828.0 

953.4 

703.0 

954.7 

Number  of  farms 

27,300 

27,000 

Number 

26,500 

26,000 

25,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


25 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

CONNECTICUT 

Gross  farm  income 

450.9 

462.4 

Million  dollars 

521.7 

503.1 

527.0 

Gross  cash  income 

420.1 

439.9 

487.2 

484.0 

502.8 

Farm  marketings 

409.5 

427.5 

473.9 

472.2 

488.7 

Crops 

226.2 

241.1 

250.6 

264.0 

249.1 

Livestock  and  products 

183.3 

186.4 

223.3 

208.2 

239.6 

Government  payments 

2.9 

2.2 

2.1 

1.4 

2.2 

Farm-related  income 

7.7 

10.2 

11.2 

10.5 

11.8 

Noncash  income 

33.5 

29.4 

27.7 

25.2 

25.6 

Value  of  home  consumption 

1.9 

1.4 

2.0 

2.0 

1.4 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

31.5 

28.0 

25.7 

23.2 

24.2 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

28.2 

24.7 

22.6 

20.0 

20.8 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

3.3 

3.3 

3.1 

3.2 

3.4 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-2.6 

-6.8 

6.8 

-6.1 

-1.4 

Total  production  expenses 

298.7 

316.0 

343.2 

332.7 

337.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

161.0 

171.8 

187.8 

180.6 

183.7 

Farm  origin 

70.6 

70.8 

74.1 

74.0 

73.5 

Feed  purchased 

51.5 

50.3 

52.8 

50.4 

50.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

4.7 

4.8 

5.2 

5.3 

5.5 

Seed  purchased 

14.4 

15.7 

16.1 

18.3 

17.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

26.7 

27.8 

29.9 

28.5 

27.6 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

6.8 

6.8 

7.1 

5.6 

5.6 

Pesticides 

4.3 

5.0 

5.2 

5.9 

5.7 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

8.7 

8.7 

10.7 

10.3 

9.5 

Electricity 

6.9 

7.4 

7.0 

6.7 

6.8 

Other 

63.7 

73.2 

83.8 

78.1 

82.6 

Repair  and  maintenance 

19.2 

19.4 

20.6 

19.8 

21.9 

Other  miscellaneous 

44.5 

53.7 

63.2 

58.3 

60.7 

Interest 

18.1 

20.2 

19.5 

17.4 

16.5 

Real  estate 

8.1 

9.6 

8.8 

7.6 

7.1 

Nonreal  estate 

10.0 

10.6 

10.7 

9.8 

9.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

63.9 

68.1 

78.7 

77.1 

78.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-1.0 

-.9 

.0 

.7 

.5 

Capital  consumption 

42.9 

41.4 

39.5 

38.3 

39.1 

Property  taxes 

13.8 

15.4 

17.7 

18.6 

18.6 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

152.2 

146.4 

178.5 

170.5 

189.9 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

422.7 

437.8 

499.0 

483.1 

506.1 

Farm  production  expenses 

281.6 

301.3 

328.8 

319.5 

322.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

202.1 

214.8 

231 .7 

225.3 

228.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

156.4 

168.6 

184.4 

177.5 

180.3 

Capital  consumption 

33.6 

32.5 

31.4 

31.0 

31.1 

Property  taxes 

12.1 

13.7 

15.9 

16.8 

16.7 

Factor  payments 

79.5 

86.5 

97.1 

94.1 

94.6 

Interest 

16.6 

19.2 

18.4 

16.3 

15.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

63.9 

68.1 

78.7 

77.1 

78.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-1.0 

-.9 

.0 

.7 

.5 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

141.0 

136.5 

170.2 

163.6 

183.4 

Gross  cash  income 

420.1 

439.9 

487.2 

484.0 

502.8 

Cash  expenses 

246.1 

266.9 

295.6 

286.5 

289.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

156.4 

168.6 

184.4 

177.5 

180.3 

Interest 

16.6 

19.2 

18.4 

16.3 

15.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

60.6 

64.9 

75.7 

74.0 

75.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

.4 

.4 

1.3 

1.9 

1.7 

Property  taxes 

12.1 

13.7 

15.9 

16.8 

16.7 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

174.0 

173.0 

191.6 

197.5 

213.3 

Gross  cash  income 

420.1 

439.9 

487.2 

484.0 

502.8 

Farm  business  expenses 

279.7 

299.4 

327.1 

317.5 

320.6 

Cash  expenses 

246.1 

266.9 

295.6 

286.5 

289.4 

Capital  consumption 

33.6 

32.5 

31 .4 

31.0 

31.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

140.4 

140.5 

160.1 

166.5 

182.2 

Number  of  farms 

4,000 

4,000 

Number 

3,900 

3,900 

4,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


26 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


DELAWARE 


Gross  farm  income  :  681.0 

Gross  cash  income  :  665.3 

Farm  marketings  :  595.4 

Crops  :  151.8 

Livestock  and  products  :  443.5 

Government  payments  :  10.5 

Farm-related  income  :  59.4 

Noncash  income  :  12.3 

Value  of  home  consumption  :  2.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings  :  10.2 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/  :  9.1 

Hired  laborer  dwellings  :  1.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment  :  3.4 

Total  production  expenses  :  507.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses  :  413.6 

Farm  origin  :  246.3 

Feed  purchased  :  186.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased  :  48.8 

Seed  purchased  :  10.6 

Manufactured  inputs  :  45.4 

Fertilizer  and  lime  :  22.3 

Pesticides  :  9.8 

F  ue l  and  oil  :  8.2 

Electricity  :  5.0 

Other  :  122.0 

Repair  and  maintenance  :  12.0 

Other  miscellaneous  :  110.0 

Interest  :  26.6 

Real  estate  :  13.6 

Nonreal  estate  :  12.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses  :  23.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords  :  7.5 

Capital  consumption  :  31.9 

Property  taxes  :  4.7 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/  :  173.0 

Gross  receipts  of  farms  :  671.9 

Farm  production  expenses  :  502.2 

Nonfactor  payments  :  445.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses  :  412.1 

Capital  consumption  :  29.1 

Property  taxes  :  4.1 

v  • 

Factor  payments  :  56.8 

Interest  :  25.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses  :  23.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords  :  7.5 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/  :  169.7 

Gross  cash  income  :  665.3 

Cash  expenses  :  474.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses  :  412.1 

Interest  :  25.6 

Cash  labor  expenses  :  22.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords  :  9.8 

Property  taxes  :  4.1 

NET  CASH  INCOME  :  191.0 

Gross  cash  income  :  665.3 

Farm  business  expenses  :  503.4 

Cash  expenses  :  474.3 

Capital  consumption  :  29.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME  :  161.9 


Number  of  farms  :  3,000 


743.7 

Million  dollars 

701 .5 

697.6 

695.9 

725.5 

685.3 

680.1 

684.9 

661.6 

635.8 

622.0 

635.8 

159.0 

176.2 

183.8 

184.4 

502.6 

459.7 

438.2 

451.3 

4.8 

3.2 

2.7 

3.0 

59.1 

46.2 

55.4 

46.1 

13.3 

13.0 

12.0 

12.7 

2.2 

1.9 

1.6 

1.6 

11.1 

11.1 

10.4 

11.1 

10.0 

10.1 

9.4 

9.9 

1.1 

1.1 

1.1 

1.2 

4.9 

3.1 

5.5 

-1.7 

556.0 

555.6 

563.3 

560.6 

457.9 

451.7 

462.1 

460.4 

270.6 

273.4 

273.9 

293.8 

202.3 

202.6 

202.3 

207.1 

56.8 

59.0 

58.2 

73.8 

11.5 

11.8 

13.4 

12.9 

45.7 

51.5 

56.4 

49.0 

20.6 

24.6 

28.3 

22.0 

11.5 

11.9 

13.5 

13.1 

8.2 

10.0 

9.7 

9.0 

5.4 

5.0 

4.8 

4.9 

141.6 

126.7 

131.8 

117.6 

13.5 

14.5 

14.2 

14.4 

128.1 

112.2 

117.6 

103.2 

25.8 

24.9 

22.2 

21.0 

13.4 

12.4 

10.7 

10.0 

12.4 

12.5 

11.5 

11.0 

25.2 

28.6 

27.5 

28.1 

8.6 

11.4 

12.6 

12.7 

33.3 

33.0 

32.7 

32.1 

5.2 

6.0 

6.2 

6.3 

187.7 

145.9 

134.3 

135.4 

733.8 

691.4 

688.2 

686.0 

549.3 

548.6 

556.6 

553.6 

491.4 

485.4 

496.0 

493.3 

456.6 

450.2 

460.7 

458.8 

30.1 

29.9 

29.7 

28.9 

4.6 

5.3 

5.6 

5.6 

58.0 

63.2 

60.7 

60.3 

24.1 

23.2 

20.6 

19.5 

25.2 

28.6 

27.5 

28.1 

8.6 

11.4 

12.6 

12.7 

184.5 

142.8 

131.6 

132.4 

725.5 

685.3 

680.1 

684.9 

520.6 

520.2 

528.3 

525.9 

456.6 

450.2 

460.7 

458.8 

24.1 

23.2 

20.6 

19.5 

24.1 

27.6 

26.4 

26.9 

11.1 

13.9 

15.1 

15.0 

4.6 

5.3 

5.6 

5.6 

205.0 

165.1 

151.8 

158.9 

725.5 

685.3 

680.1 

684.9 

550.7 

550.1 

558.0 

554.8 

520.6 

520.2 

528.3 

525.9 

30.1 

29.9 

29.7 

28.9 

174.8 

135.2 

122.1 

130.1 

,000 

Number 

2,900 

2,900 

2,700 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92 --continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

FLORIDA 

Gross  farm  income 

6,034.1 

6,458.3 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

5,916.8 

6,359.6 

6,371.7 

Gross  cash  income 

5,952.6 

6,359.4 

5,829.8 

6,238.8 

6,268.8 

Farm  marketings 

5,839.4 

6,240.5 

5,717.2 

6,125.0 

6,144.5 

Crops 

4,688.5 

5,025.1 

4,456.5 

4,953.3 

4,984.9 

Livestock  and  products 

1,150.9 

1,215.4 

1,260.7 

1,171.6 

1,159.6 

Government  payments 

32.0 

38.3 

37.2 

40.8 

53.1 

Farm-related  income 

81.1 

80.6 

75.5 

73.1 

71.2 

Noncash  income 

104.2 

104.8 

102.1 

92.4 

88.7 

Value  of  home  consumption 

6.5 

5.2 

5.1 

4.9 

4.6 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

97.7 

99.6 

97.0 

87.5 

84.2 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

66.2 

72.6 

75.9 

70.1 

60.9 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

31.4 

27.0 

21.1 

17.4 

23.2 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-22.6 

-6.0 

-15.1 

28.4 

14.1 

Total  production  expenses 

3,332.2 

3,607.3 

3,684.2 

3,615.5 

3,595.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,796.1 

1,996.2 

1,958.6 

1,989.4 

1,940.2 

Farm  origin 

527.1 

557.1 

541.1 

522.0 

529.3 

Feed  purchased 

344.6 

353.3 

318.8 

274.6 

292.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

53.2 

56.3 

63.2 

58.6 

55.2 

Seed  purchased 

129.3 

147.5 

159.1 

188.8 

181.4 

Manufactured  inputs 

563.9 

635.5 

668.1 

728.7 

674.7 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

209.4 

234.3 

230.0 

249.1 

236.9 

Pesticides 

202.5 

243.0 

258.0 

301.9 

277.2 

Fuel  and  oi l 

100.3 

102.6 

127.5 

126.8 

113.1 

Electricity 

51.7 

55.7 

52.6 

50.9 

47.5 

Other 

705.1 

803.7 

749.3 

738.7 

736.3 

Repair  and  maintenance 

126.9 

140.2 

160.4 

162.2 

153.9 

Other  miscellaneous 

578.2 

663.5 

588.9 

576.5 

582.3 

Interest 

338.0 

347.6 

336.7 

305.5 

288.2 

Real  estate 

238.8 

251.0 

240.3 

215.0 

201.6 

Nonreal  estate 

99.2 

96.6 

96.5 

90.5 

86.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

793.5 

839.1 

941 .2 

875.2 

910.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

18.2 

26.0 

48.4 

63.3 

70.7 

Capital  consumption 

266.5 

278.7 

275.8 

266.8 

262.5 

Property  taxes 

120.0 

119.7 

123.6 

115.4 

122.7 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

2,701.9 

2,850.9 

2,232.5 

2,744.1 

2,776.5 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

5,967.9 

6,385.6 

5,840.9 

6,289.5 

6,310.7 

Farm  production  expenses 

3,269.9 

3,541.2 

3,615.5 

3,551.8 

3,534.4 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,131.3 

2,344.1 

2,306.3 

2,323.7 

2,279.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,780.7 

1,984.0 

1,943.7 

1,974.5 

1,928.1 

Capital  consumption 

237.8 

247.5 

245.8 

239.6 

234.0 

Property  taxes 

112.7 

112.7 

116.8 

109.6 

117.0 

Factor  payments 

1,138.6 

1,197.1 

1,309.1 

1,228.1 

1,255.3 

Interest 

327.0 

332.1 

319.5 

289.6 

273.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

793.5 

839.1 

941.2 

875.2 

910.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

18.2 

26.0 

48.4 

63.3 

70.7 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

2,698.0 

2,844.5 

2,225.4 

2,737.7 

2,776.4 

Gross  cash  income 

5,952.6 

6,359.4 

5,829.8 

6,238.8 

6,268.8 

Cash  expenses 

3,006.4 

3,272.2 

3,353.4 

3,297.6 

3,283.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,780.7 

1,984.0 

1,943.7 

1,974.5 

1,928.1 

Interest 

327.0 

332.1 

319.5 

289.6 

273.7 

Cash  labor  expenses 

761.2 

810.5 

917.8 

853.9 

887.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

24.8 

33.0 

55.4 

70.0 

77.3 

Property  taxes 

112.7 

112.7 

116.8 

109.6 

117.0 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

2,946.1 

3,087.2 

2,476.4 

2,941.2 

2,985.2 

Gross  cash  income 

5,952.6 

6,359.4 

5,829.8 

6,238.8 

6,268.8 

Farm  business  expenses 

3,244.3 

3,519.7 

3,599.1 

3,537.2 

3,517.6 

Cash  expenses 

3,006.4 

3,272.2 

3,353.4 

3,297.6 

3,283.6 

Capital  consumption 

237.8 

247.5 

245.8 

239.6 

234.0 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

2,708.3 

2,839.8 

2,230.7 

2,701.6 

2,751.2 

Number  of  farms 

41,000 

41,000 

Number 

41,000 

40,000 

39,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


28 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

GEORGIA 

Gross  farm  income 

4,192.3 

4,574.3 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

4,346.1 

4,598.6 

4,716.1 

Gross  cash  income 

4,073.1 

4,403.6 

4,265.1 

4,341.1 

4,551.3 

Farm  marketings 

3,582.5 

3,912.2 

3,857.8 

3,933.8 

4,073.1 

Crops 

1,554.8 

1,630.7 

1,587.9 

1,772.0 

1,763.8 

Livestock  and  products 

2,027.7 

2,281.5 

2,269.9 

2,161.7 

2,309.3 

Government  payments 

174.0 

173.1 

130.6 

97.7 

182.3 

Farm-related  income 

316.7 

318.4 

276.7 

309.7 

295.9 

Noncash  income 

152.9 

156.9 

145.6 

122.2 

116.8 

Value  of  home  consumption 

9.7 

9.8 

9.1 

7.6 

8.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

143.2 

147.1 

136.5 

114.6 

108.7 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

134.0 

139.2 

130.4 

109.5 

101.9 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

9.2 

7.9 

6.1 

5.1 

6.8 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-33.7 

13.9 

-64.6 

135.3 

48.1 

Total  production  expenses 

3,044.9 

3,212.4 

3,169.9 

3,102.2 

3,035.5 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,107.0 

2,254.1 

2,184.5 

2,166.2 

2,121.2 

Farm  origin 

1,009.4 

1,033.4 

995.9 

934.7 

970.4 

Feed  purchased 

762.3 

758.9 

688.9 

614.0 

650.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

159.2 

174.3 

198.9 

192.5 

196.7 

Seed  purchased 

87.9 

100.2 

108.2 

128.3 

123.3 

Manufactured  inputs 

428.2 

480.3 

513.7 

545.5 

524.7 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

193.6 

221.0 

225.2 

238.3 

245.2 

Pesticides 

97.4 

116.9 

124.1 

145.2 

133.3 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

97.7 

99.9 

124.2 

123.2 

109.9 

Electricity 

39.5 

42.5 

40.2 

38.9 

36.3 

Other 

669.4 

740.4 

675.0 

685.9 

626.1 

Repair  and  maintenance 

144.8 

160.6 

171.3 

169.7 

152.1 

Other  miscellaneous 

524.5 

579.8 

503.7 

516.1 

474.0 

Interest 

301.0 

290.6 

275.8 

251.5 

238.2 

Real  estate 

168.7 

164.8 

157.7 

141.1 

132.3 

Nonreal  estate 

132.3 

125.8 

118.1 

110.4 

105.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

205.8 

215.8 

243.7 

228.7 

213.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

27.8 

35.6 

54.8 

64.2 

68.1 

Capital  consumption 

331.5 

343.8 

334.8 

318.4 

314.2 

Property  taxes 

71.9 

72.5 

76.2 

73.3 

80.1 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

1,147.5 

1,361.9 

1,176.3 

1,496.4 

1,680.6 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

4,058.3 

4,435.1 

4,215.8 

4,489.1 

4,614.2 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,963.2 

3,126.2 

3,084.0 

3,025.5 

2,963.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,436.6 

2,596.9 

2,523.7 

2,493.9 

2,455.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,084.5 

2,235.9 

2,163.7 

2,146.1 

2,105.6 

Capital  consumption 

289.5 

297.7 

292.7 

281.9 

277.4 

Property  taxes 

62.6 

63.2 

67.3 

65.8 

72.6 

Factor  payments 

526.6 

529.3 

560.3 

531.6 

508.2 

Interest 

293.0 

277.9 

261 .8 

238.7 

226.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

205.8 

215.8 

243.7 

228.7 

213.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

27.8 

35.6 

54.8 

64.2 

68.1 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

1,095.2 

1,308.9 

1,131.8 

1,463.6 

1,650.4 

Gross  cash  income 

4,073.1 

4,403.6 

4,265.1 

4,341.1 

4,551.3 

Cash  expenses 

2,675.3 

2,831.8 

2,795.9 

2,748.0 

2,690.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,084.5 

2,235.9 

2,163.7 

2,146.1 

2,105.6 

Interest 

293.0 

277.9 

261 .8 

238.7 

226.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

196.4 

207.5 

236.9 

222.5 

206.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

38.8 

47.3 

66.2 

75.0 

78.5 

Property  taxes 

62.6 

63.2 

67.3 

65.8 

72.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,397.8 

1,571.8 

1,469.2 

1,593.1 

1,861.2 

Gross  cash  income 

4,073.1 

4,403.6 

4,265.1 

4,341.1 

4,551.3 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,964.8 

3,129.5 

3,088.6 

3,030.0 

2,967.5 

Cash  expenses 

2,675.3 

2,831.8 

2,795.9 

2,748.0 

2,690.1 

Capital  consumption 

289.5 

297.7 

292.7 

281.9 

277.4 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,108.3 

1,274.1 

1,176.6 

1,311.1 

1,583.8 

Number  of  farms 

49,000 

48,000 

Number 

48,000 

46,000 

46,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


29 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tem 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

HAWAII 

Gross  farm  income 

600.7 

606.9 

Million  dollars 

628.6 

581.3 

580.8 

Gross  cash  income 

580.4 

592.2 

607.9 

569.5 

572.3 

Farm  marketings 

573.8 

585.0 

600.0 

561.9 

564.2 

Crops 

485.2 

493.2 

513.6 

474.3 

475.7 

Livestock  and  products 

88.7 

91.8 

86.4 

87.6 

88.4 

Government  payments 

.4 

.3 

.5 

.9 

1.8 

Farm-related  income 

6.2 

6.9 

7.3 

6.7 

6.4 

Noncash  income 

17.1 

17.9 

17.4 

18.3 

18.6 

Value  of  home  consumption 

1.1 

1.5 

1.1 

2.0 

1.5 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

16.0 

16.4 

16.3 

16.3 

17.2 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

6.7 

7.1 

7.5 

7.2 

7.6 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

9.3 

9.3 

8.8 

9.1 

9.6 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

3.1 

-3.2 

3.3 

-6.5 

-10.2 

Total  production  expenses 

483.9 

509.4 

559.1 

560.6 

553.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

190.8 

201.4 

210.4 

209.4 

208.3 

Farm  origin 

53.8 

55.0 

55.2 

48.1 

48.7 

Feed  purchased 

38.3 

38.3 

38.2 

29.0 

30.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

1.1 

1.1 

1.0 

1.0 

.9 

Seed  purchased 

14.4 

15.6 

16.0 

18.1 

17.4 

Manufactured  inputs 

71.1 

77.4 

82.2 

87.4 

85.7 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

34.1 

36.5 

36.8 

38.9 

37.5 

Pesticides 

15.9 

19.2 

20.5 

24.2 

24.8 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

15.3 

15.2 

18.4 

17.8 

16.9 

Electricity 

5.8 

6.5 

6.4 

6.5 

6.4 

Other 

65.8 

69.0 

73.0 

74.0 

73.9 

Repair  and  maintenance 

14.7 

15.9 

17.1 

17.5 

18.4 

Other  miscellaneous 

51.2 

53.1 

55.9 

56.5 

55.5 

Interest 

32.7 

31.0 

29.9 

27.0 

25.9 

Real  estate 

22.3 

21.0 

19.7 

17.4 

16.6 

Nonreal  estate 

10.4 

9.9 

10.2 

9.6 

9.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

175.2 

188.6 

220.4 

220.8 

215.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

22.6 

20.9 

24.5 

29.7 

28.4 

Capital  consumption 

39.3 

40.4 

40.2 

40.5 

40.7 

Property  taxes 

23.2 

27.1 

33.8 

33.2 

34.6 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

116.8 

97.4 

69.4 

20.7 

27.2 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

594.0 

599.7 

621 .0 

574.1 

573.2 

Farm  production  expenses 

474.2 

500.9 

550.4 

549.4 

542.1 

Nonfactor  payments 

244.3 

259.5 

274.1 

272.8 

272.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

188.2 

199.3 

207.8 

206.6 

205.8 

Capital  consumption 

34.6 

35.1 

35.0 

35.4 

35.1 

Property  taxes 

21.5 

25.0 

31.3 

30.8 

32.1 

Factor  payments 

229.9 

241.4 

276.3 

276.6 

269.2 

Interest 

32.0 

31.9 

31.4 

26.1 

25.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

175.2 

188.6 

220.4 

220.8 

215.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

22.6 

20.9 

24.5 

29.7 

28.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

119.8 

98.9 

70.7 

24.7 

31.1 

Gross  cash  income 

580.4 

592.2 

607.9 

569.5 

572.3 

Cash  expenses 

431.9 

458.0 

508.2 

506.2 

499.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

188.2 

199.3 

207.8 

206.6 

205.8 

Interest 

32.0 

31.9 

31.4 

26.1 

25.1 

Cash  labor  expenses 

165.9 

179.2 

211.6 

211.2 

206.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

24.3 

22.7 

26.2 

31.4 

30.1 

Property  taxes 

21.5 

25.0 

31.3 

30.8 

32.1 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

148.6 

134.1 

99.7 

63.3 

73.3 

Gross  cash  income 

580.4 

592.2 

607.9 

569.5 

572.3 

Farm  business  expenses 

466.4 

493.2 

543.2 

541.5 

534.2 

Cash  expenses 

431.9 

458.0 

508.2 

506.2 

499.1 

Capital  consumption 

34.6 

35.1 

35.0 

35.4 

35.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

114.0 

99.0 

64.7 

27.9 

38.2 

Number  of  farms 

4,650 

4,650 

Number 

4,600 

4,600 

4,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


30 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

IDAHO 

Million  dollars 

Gross  farm  income 

2,708.1 

3,164.3 

3,266.1 

2,953.2 

3,025.2 

Gross  cash  income 

2,572.6 

2,953.1 

3,002.6 

2,866.5 

3,022.4 

Farm  marketings 

2,342.9 

2,783.8 

2,800.7 

2,651.4 

2,815.5 

Crops 

1,303.8 

1,711.0 

1,663.3 

1,586.2 

1,642.5 

Livestock  and  products 

1,039.1 

1,072.8 

1,137.4 

1,065.2 

1,173.0 

Government  payments 

166.8 

99.1 

133.4 

141.3 

137.4 

Farm-related  income 

62.9 

70.2 

68.5 

73.8 

69.5 

Noncash  income 

80.6 

80.0 

81.5 

78.1 

77.2 

Value  of  home  consumption 

13.5 

10.4 

10.7 

9.5 

8.7 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

67.2 

69.6 

70.9 

68.6 

68.5 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

56.9 

57.8 

58.4 

54.1 

58.1 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

10.2 

11.8 

12.5 

14.5 

10.4 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

54.8 

131.1 

181.9 

8.6 

-74.3 

Total  production  expenses 

2,066.5 

2,149.7 

2,194.5 

2,088.1 

2,086.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,235.9 

1,298.8 

1,319.8 

1,267.2 

1,273.3 

Farm  origin 

522.6 

498.9 

510.5 

450.0 

454.8 

Feed  purchased 

270.4 

264.5 

251 .5 

213.6 

222.6 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

178.3 

154.2 

176.4 

142.7 

142.2 

Seed  purchased 

73.9 

80.2 

82.5 

93.6 

89.9 

Manufactured  inputs 

340.8 

369.3 

367.5 

371.7 

366.6 

Ferti l i zer  and  l ime 

153.3 

168.8 

154.1 

156.5 

154.8 

Pesticides 

52.1 

58.1 

56.9 

61.0 

61.4 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

73.3 

72.9 

88.2 

85.4 

76.5 

E  lectrici ty 

62.1 

69.6 

68.3 

68.9 

74.0 

Other 

372.5 

430.7 

441 .8 

445.5 

451.8 

Repair  and  maintenance 

96.8 

102.7 

96.3 

92.1 

105.9 

Other  miscellaneous 

275.7 

328.0 

345.5 

353.4 

345.9 

Interest 

239.6 

227.6 

219.2 

202.1 

190.7 

Real  estate 

131.5 

119.3 

111.4 

100.6 

94.4 

Nonreal  estate 

108.1 

108.3 

107.8 

101.5 

96.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

171.1 

178.9 

199.8 

187.4 

176.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

135.8 

153.1 

159.7 

138.0 

149.6 

Capital  consumption 

220.0 

225.3 

225.3 

224.8 

223.7 

Property  taxes 

64.0 

66.0 

70.6 

68.7 

72.3 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

641.6 

1,014.6 

1,071.6 

865.1 

939.2 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

2,651.2 

3,106.5 

3,207.7 

2,899.1 

2,967.2 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,022.2 

2,106.0 

2,149.8 

2,046.5 

2,043.9 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,484.9 

1,555.3 

1,580.0 

1,527.4 

1,534.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,225.9 

1,291.1 

1,311.4 

1,259.9 

1,266.3 

Capital  consumption 

201.7 

205.1 

204.9 

205.1 

202.7 

Property  taxes 

57.3 

59.1 

63.6 

62.3 

65.8 

Factor  payments 

537.2 

550.7 

569.8 

519.1 

509.1 

Interest 

230.3 

218.7 

210.3 

193.8 

183.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

171.1 

178.9 

199.8 

187.4 

176.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

135.8 

153.1 

159.7 

138.0 

149.6 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

629.0 

1,000.5 

1,057.9 

852.6 

923.3 

Gross  cash  income 

2,572.6 

2,953.1 

3,002.6 

2,866.5 

3,022.4 

Cash  expenses 

1,827.1 

1,906.5 

1,949.4 

1,842.8 

1,848.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,225.9 

1,291.1 

1,311.4 

1,259.9 

1,266.3 

Interest 

230.3 

218.7 

210.3 

193.8 

183.1 

Cash  labor  expenses 

160.5 

166.4 

186.3 

170.9 

166.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

153.1 

171.1 

177.7 

155.8 

167.2 

Property  taxes 

57.3 

59.1 

63.6 

62.3 

65.8 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

745.5 

1,046.7 

1,053.2 

1,023.7 

1,174.1 

Gross  cash  income 

2,572.6 

2,953.1 

3,002.6 

2,866.5 

3,022.4 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,028.8 

2,111.5 

2,154.3 

2,047.9 

2,050.9 

Cash  expenses 

1,827.1 

1,906.5 

1,949.4 

1,842.8 

1,848.3 

Capital  consumption 

201.7 

205.1 

204.9 

205.1 

202.7 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

543.8 

841.6 

848.3 

818.6 

971.5 

Number 

Number  of  farms 

22,500 

22,100 

21,800 

21,400 

21,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


31 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

ILLINOIS 

Gross  farm  income 

7,591.3 

9,355.4 

Mi l l ion  dol lars 

8,821.6 

8,099.8 

9,268.1 

Gross  cash  income 

7,821.4 

7,880.3 

8,446.2 

8,140.0 

8,267.1 

Farm  marketings 

6,281.7 

6,981.7 

7,767.2 

7,534.4 

7,633.7 

Crops 

4,026.3 

4,727.9 

5,315.6 

5,181.4 

5,431.3 

Livestock  and  products 

2,255.3 

2,253.8 

2,451 .6 

2,353.0 

2,202.3 

Government  payments 

1,374.0 

725.9 

506.6 

441.4 

480.7 

Farm-related  income 

165.7 

172.7 

172.4 

164.2 

152.7 

Noncash  income 

223.1 

229.9 

231 .3 

226.2 

238.8 

Value  of  home  consumption 

34.7 

33.8 

37.8 

30.3 

29.5 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

188.4 

196.1 

193.5 

195.9 

209.4 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

174.7 

182.2 

180.3 

182.0 

196.5 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

13.7 

13.9 

13.2 

13.9 

12.9 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-453.1 

1,245.2 

144.1 

-266.4 

762.2 

Total  production  expenses 

6,799.4 

7,388.7 

7,356.6 

7,392.2 

7,569.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

3,425.1 

3,566.6 

3,629.7 

3,813.1 

3,793.1 

Farm  origin 

1,154.0 

1,177.9 

1,175.5 

1,172.9 

1,173.1 

Feed  purchased 

564.6 

566.0 

556.3 

556.6 

570.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

248.1 

247.5 

250.1 

204.5 

206.6 

Seed  purchased 

341.2 

364.4 

369.1 

411.8 

395.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

1,346.1 

1,441.1 

1,472.3 

1,629.1 

1,604.3 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

690.9 

718.1 

674.7 

768.6 

731.1 

Pesticides 

300.7 

370.2 

403.2 

483.7 

495.4 

Fuel  and  oi l 

263.2 

255.3 

303.1 

289.4 

286.5 

Electricity 

91.3 

97.6 

91 .2 

87.4 

91.3 

Other 

925.0 

947.5 

982.0 

1,011.1 

1,015.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

302.4 

322.0 

336.7 

350.8 

347.7 

Other  miscellaneous 

622.6 

625.5 

645.3 

660.3 

668.0 

Interest 

774.2 

741.7 

725.8 

667.3 

623.8 

Real  estate 

446.4 

426.7 

410.6 

369.8 

346.7 

Nonreal  estate 

327.8 

315.1 

315.1 

297.5 

277.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

257.7 

272.9 

313.1 

298.9 

316.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

1,011.6 

1,435.4 

1,287.1 

1,208.9 

1,415.8 

Capital  consumption 

913.6 

931.9 

920.7 

933.0 

941.2 

Property  taxes 

417.3 

440.2 

480.2 

471.0 

479.2 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

791.9 

1,966.7 

1,465.0 

707.6 

1,698.8 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

7,416.6 

9,173.2 

8,641 .3 

7,917.8 

9,071.6 

Farm  production  expenses 

6,684.6 

7,265.1 

7,225.8 

7,264.3 

7,435.5 

Nonfactor  payments 

4,657.7 

4,839.4 

4,928.1 

5,115.5 

5,103.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

3,398.1 

3,545.7 

3,606.3 

3,790.2 

3,770.1 

Capital  consumption 

872.2 

885.8 

875.7 

886.7 

887.9 

Property  taxes 

387.5 

407.9 

446.2 

438.6 

445.8 

Factor  payments 

2,026.8 

2,425.7 

2,297.7 

2,148.7 

2,331.7 

Interest 

757.6 

717.4 

697.5 

641.0 

599.8 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

257.7 

272.9 

313.1 

298.9 

316.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

1,011.6 

1,435.4 

1,287.1 

1,208.9 

1,415.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

732.1 

1,908.1 

1,415.5 

653.6 

1 ,636.1 

Gross  cash  income 

7,821.4 

7,880.3 

8,446.2 

8,140.0 

8,267.1 

Cash  expenses 

5,968.8 

6,542.1 

6,511.5 

6,538.9 

6,709.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

3,398.1 

3,545.7 

3,606.3 

3,790.2 

3,770.1 

Interest 

757.6 

717.4 

697.5 

641.0 

599.8 

Cash  labor  expenses 

243.8 

258.9 

299.8 

284.4 

303.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

1,181.9 

1,612.2 

1,461.7 

1,384.6 

1,591.1 

Property  taxes 

387.5 

407.9 

446.2 

438.6 

445.8 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,852.5 

1,338.2 

1,934.7 

1,601.1 

1,557.3 

Gross  cash  income 

7,821.4 

7,880.3 

8,446.2 

8,140.0 

8,267.1 

Farm  business  expenses 

6,841.0 

7,427.9 

7,387.2 

7,425.6 

7,597.7 

Cash  expenses 

5,968.8 

6,542.1 

6,511.5 

6,538.9 

6,709.8 

Capital  consumption 

872.2 

885.8 

875.7 

886.7 

887.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

980.4 

452.4 

1,059.0 

714.4 

669.4 

Number  of  farms 

88,000 

86,000 

Number 

83,000 

82,000 

81,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


32 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--cont inued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


INDIANA 


Mi l l ion  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
Fuel  and  oi l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


4,593.3 

5,489.0 

5,463.7 

4,758.6 

4,758.6 

4,736.0 

5,261.9 

4,818.8 

4,036.5 

4,288.3 

4,907.6 

4,500.4 

2,292.7 

2,462.4 

2,868.1 

2,583.2 

1,743.8 

1,825.9 

2,039.5 

1,917.1 

616.3 

333.7 

244.2 

210.1 

105.7 

114.0 

110.1 

108.4 

198.1 

204.7 

203.3 

196.2 

18.8 

16.9 

18.0 

14.0 

179.3 

187.8 

185.3 

182.3 

169.5 

177.9 

175.9 

172.3 

9.7 

9.9 

9.4 

9.9 

-363.3 

548.4 

-1.5 

-256.4 

4,290.8 

4,513.0 

4,680.0 

4,600.0 

2,315.6 

2,426.6 

2,591.3 

2,647.8 

956.7 

1,001.0 

1,035.9 

1,048.7 

633.6 

675.7 

681.7 

675.8 

140.5 

130.3 

156.7 

152.5 

182.6 

195.0 

197.5 

220.4 

736.1 

791.9 

894.1 

941.1 

353.6 

371.8 

433.3 

449.4 

164.6 

202.7 

220.7 

264.8 

154.8 

150.1 

177.1 

166.6 

63.0 

67.3 

63.0 

60.3 

622.7 

633.6 

661.3 

658.0 

243.1 

254.9 

263.0 

264.3 

379.6 

378.7 

398.3 

393.7 

487.2 

471.7 

459.1 

421.9 

302.4 

291.6 

278.9 

251.2 

184.8 

180.1 

180.2 

170.7 

186.5 

197.6 

226.5 

215.9 

478.7 

571.9 

552.8 

470.0 

637.6 

652.1 

641.3 

639.5 

185.1 

193.1 

209.1 

205.0 

302.6 

976.0 

783.7 

158.5 

4,423.8 

5,311.1 

5,287.8 

4,586.3 

4,175.5 

4,390.3 

4,553.2 

4,478.1 

3,043.8 

3,175.4 

3,343.0 

3,396.3 

2,289.9 

2,406.6 

2,568.9 

2,626.6 

590.0 

598.7 

589.2 

587.8 

164.0 

170.1 

184.9 

182.0 

1,131.7 

1,214.8 

1,210.2 

1,081.8 

466.5 

445.3 

430.9 

396.0 

186.5 

197.6 

226.5 

215.9 

478.7 

571.9 

552.8 

470.0 

248.3 

920.9 

734.7 

108.2 

4,758.6 

4,736.0 

5,261 .9 

4,818.8 

3,643.8 

3,852.5 

4,024.2 

3,949.1 

2,289.9 

2,406.6 

2,568.9 

2,626.6 

466.5 

445.3 

430.9 

396.0 

176.6 

187.6 

217.0 

205.5 

546.8 

642.9 

622.6 

539.1 

164.0 

170.1 

184.9 

182.0 

1,114.8 

883.4 

1,237.7 

869.7 

4,758.6 

4,736.0 

5,261.9 

4,818.8 

4,233.7 

4,451.2 

4,613.4 

4,536.9 

3,643.8 

3,852.5 

4,024.2 

3,949.1 

590.0 

598.7 

589.2 

587.8 

524.8 

284.8 

648.5 

281.9 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


74,000 


71,000  68,000  65,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


5.469.1 

4.842.2 

4.505.3 

2.683.8 

1.821.4 
232.5 

104.4 

209.5 
14.3 

195.1 

185.9 
9.2 

417.5 

4.739.8 

2.687.5 
1,087.5 

724.5 

151.3 
211.8 

944.1 

444.9 

271.2 

164.9 
63.0 

655.8 

254.9 

400.9 

395.2 

235.6 

159.6 

228.7 

575.7 
647.0 

205.6 

729.3 

5.283.2 

4.613.2 

3.437.4 

2.666.5 
589.0 

181.9 

1.175.9 

371.4 

228.7 

575.7 

670.0 

4.842.2 

4,084.0 

2,666.5 

371.4 
219.3 

644.9 

181.9 

758.2 

4,842.2 

4,673.0 

4,084.0 

589.0 

169.2 


65,000 


cont inued- - 


33 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


IOWA 


Mi  11  ion  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
Fuel  and  oi l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


10,584.2 

11,525.1 

11,923.5 

11,172.3 

10,698.9 

10,315.9 

11,304.7 

11,181.4 

8,792.4 

9,048.6 

10,273.2 

10,249.6 

3,744.2 

3,755.2 

4,411.1 

4,529.2 

5,048.3 

5,293.4 

5,862.1 

5,720.4 

1,665.0 

981.2 

753.7 

645.0 

241.4 

286.1 

277.8 

286.9 

208.1 

218.9 

227.5 

222.1 

25.7 

23.9 

33.0 

26.2 

182.4 

195.0 

194.5 

195.9 

168.4 

180.8 

180.9 

181.6 

14.0 

14.3 

13.6 

14.3 

-322.8 

990.3 

391 .3 

-231.2 

8,826.2 

9,153.5 

9,501.9 

9,487.6 

5,056.6 

5,295.0 

5,610.8 

5,629.3 

2,566.7 

2,664.6 

2,856.8 

2,735.8 

1,313.5 

1,388.9 

1,420.3 

1,426.3 

892.0 

890.0 

1,045.9 

873.6 

361.2 

385.8 

390.7 

435.9 

1,252.8 

1,343.1 

1,412.0 

1,506.1 

569.1 

598.9 

595.9 

638.4 

276.8 

340.7 

371.1 

445.2 

280.1 

267.9 

318.3 

301.2 

126.9 

135.5 

126.8 

121.4 

1,237.1 

1,287.3 

1,341.9 

1,387.4 

358.5 

387.4 

412.8 

426.1 

878.6 

899.8 

929.2 

961.3 

995.8 

961.7 

931 .8 

858.4 

544.9 

516.8 

491 .3 

442.5 

450.9 

445.0 

440.5 

415.9 

266.8 

282.8 

324.2 

309.1 

1,037.4 

1,094.7 

1,081 .6 

1,135.1 

1,059.9 

1,088.6 

1,084.4 

1,095.6 

409.5 

430.7 

469.0 

460.0 

1,758.1 

2,371.6 

2,421.7 

1,684.7 

10,415.9 

11,344.3 

11,742.6 

10,990.7 

8,702.1 

9,014.0 

9,354.8 

9,344.8 

6,426.3 

6,711.4 

7,057.4 

7,079.5 

5,030.4 

5,274.2 

5,587.2 

5,606.5 

1,016.5 

1,038.9 

1,035.4 

1,045.6 

379.4 

398.3 

434.8 

427.4 

2,275.8 

2,302.7 

2,297.3 

2,265.3 

971.6 

925.2 

891 .5 

821.0 

266.8 

282.8 

324.2 

309.1 

1,037.4 

1,094.7 

1,081 .6 

1,135.1 

1,713.7 

2,330.3 

2,387.9 

1,645.9 

10,698.9 

10,315.9 

11,304.7 

11,181.4 

7,816.9 

8,113.0 

8,457.4 

8,436.5 

5,030.4 

5,274.2 

5,587.2 

5,606.5 

971.6 

925.2 

891 .5 

821.0 

252.6 

268.4 

310.5 

294.3 

1,183.0 

1,246.9 

1,233.3 

1,287.2 

379.4 

398.3 

434.8 

427.4 

2,881.9 

2,202.9 

2,847.3 

2,745.0 

10,698.9 

10,315.9 

11,304.7 

11,181.4 

8,833.4 

9,151.9 

9,492.8 

9,482.0 

7,816.9 

8,113.0 

8,457.4 

8,436.5 

1,016.5 

1,038.9 

1,035.4 

1,045.6 

1,865.4 

1,164.0 

1,811.9 

1,699.4 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


107,000 


105,000  104,000  102,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


12,111.1 

11,249.2 

10,329.7 

4,715.6 

5.614.1 
662.3 

257.2 

233.6 
21.7 

211.9 

198.6 
13.2 

628.3 

9.646.4 

5.769.3 
2,882.8 

1.541.2 

922.8 

418.8 

1.493.5 

612.7 
456.0 
298.0 

126.8 
1,393.0 

416.5 

976.5 

800.4 

414.9 

385.5 

327.4 
1,177.9 

1.105.1 

466.4 

2.464.6 
11,912.4 

9.499.2 

7.227.8 

5.746.6 
1,048.4 

432.8 

2.271.4 
766.2 

327.4 

1.177.9 

2.413.2 
11,249.2 

8.589.1 

5.746.6 
766.2 

313.9 

1.329.6 
432.8 

2.660.1 
11,249.2 

9.637.5 
8,589.1 
1,048.4 

1.611.7 


102,000 


cont i nued- - 


34 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92- -continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

KANSAS 

Gross  farm  income 

7,748.2 

7,497.6 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

8,564.1 

7,952.6 

8,383.7 

Gross  cash  income 

7,626.2 

7,445.1 

8,114.6 

8,068.3 

7,851.4 

Farm  marketings 

6,485.7 

6,552.6 

7,019.0 

7,076.4 

7,000.3 

Crops 

2,174.8 

2,136.6 

2,023.5 

2,275.9 

2,442.2 

Livestock  and  products 

4,310.9 

4,416.0 

4,995.5 

4,800.5 

4,558.1 

Government  payments 

848.0 

588.4 

834.7 

697.9 

592.1 

Farm-related  income 

292.5 

304.0 

260.8 

294.0 

258.9 

Noncash  income 

148.9 

155.4 

156.0 

148.1 

157.6 

Value  of  home  consumption 

17.6 

15.7 

17.3 

13.3 

17.7 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

131.3 

139.7 

138.6 

134.8 

140.0 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

120.8 

129.7 

129.8 

126.1 

129.5 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

10.5 

10.0 

8.9 

8.7 

10.5 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-26.9 

-102.9 

293.5 

-263.8 

374.7 

Total  production  expenses 

6,391.6 

6,611.8 

6,899.3 

6,671.3 

6,661.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

4.446.2 

4,700.6 

4,900.9 

4,790.5 

4,761.0 

Farm  origin 

2,804.7 

3,017.1 

3,194.9 

3,011.5 

2,970.5 

Feed  purchased 

997.8 

945.0 

886.0 

784.9 

787.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

1,699.2 

1,962.0 

2,202.5 

2,113.6 

2,075.0 

Seed  purchased 

107.6 

110.1 

106.4 

112.9 

108.5 

Manufactured  inputs 

642.6 

675.5 

721 .8 

733.6 

725.6 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

261.5 

274.3 

274.5 

280.4 

268.5 

Pesticides 

107.9 

127.8 

133.8 

154.4 

168.9 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

216.8 

210.8 

252.4 

237.8 

228.4 

Electricity 

56.5 

62.7 

61.1 

61.1 

59.8 

Other 

999.0 

1,008.0 

984.3 

1,045.4 

1,064.8 

Repair  and  maintenance 

342.2 

373.2 

370.5 

373.8 

373.3 

Other  miscellaneous 

656.8 

634.8 

613.8 

671.5 

691.5 

Interest 

554.5 

541.6 

528.0 

485.0 

458.2 

Real  estate 

243.4 

231.2 

215.2 

188.2 

176.5 

Nonreal  estate 

311.0 

310.4 

312.8 

296.7 

281.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

205.1 

204.0 

217.4 

183.6 

193.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

376.7 

330.6 

404.4 

370.0 

394.5 

Capital  consumption 

578.2 

598.4 

597.3 

601.8 

601.8 

Property  taxes 

230.8 

236.7 

251 .3 

240.4 

252.5 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

1,356.7 

885.8 

1,664.8 

1,281.3 

1,722.6 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

7,627.4 

7,367.9 

8,434.3 

7,826.4 

8,254.2 

Farm  production  expenses 

6,296.3 

6,511.5 

6,788.8 

6,558.5 

6,555.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

5,172.7 

5,447.3 

5,652.3 

5,532.1 

5,521.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

4,420.9 

4,675.9 

4,866.9 

4,749.6 

4,730.8 

Capital  consumption 

541.1 

556.0 

555.9 

561.6 

556.7 

Property  taxes 

210.7 

215.3 

229.5 

220.9 

233.6 

Factor  payments 

1,123.7 

1,064.2 

1,136.5 

1,026.5 

1,034.8 

Interest 

541.8 

529.6 

514.7 

472.8 

447.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

205.1 

204.0 

217.4 

183.6 

193.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

376.7 

330.6 

404.4 

370.0 

394.5 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

1,331.1 

856.4 

1,645.6 

1,267.9 

1,698.4 

Gross  cash  income 

7,626.2 

7,445.1 

8,114.6 

8,068.3 

7,851.4 

Cash  expenses 

5,774.9 

5,977.2 

6,255.6 

6,019.3 

6,020.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

4,420.9 

4,675.9 

4,866.9 

4,749.6 

4,730.8 

Interest 

541.8 

529.6 

514.7 

472.8 

447.2 

Cash  labor  expenses 

194.2 

193.5 

208.0 

173.8 

182.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

407.3 

362.9 

436.5 

402.2 

426.3 

Property  taxes 

210.7 

215.3 

229.5 

220.9 

233.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,851.3 

1,467.8 

1,859.0 

2,049.0 

1,831.2 

Gross  cash  income 

7,626.2 

7,445.1 

8,114.6 

8,068.3 

7,851.4 

Farm  business  expenses 

6,316.0 

6,533.3 

6,811.4 

6,580.9 

6,576.9 

Cash  expenses 

5,774.9 

5,977.2 

6,255.6 

6,019.3 

6,020.2 

Capital  consumption 

541.1 

556.0 

555.9 

561.6 

556.7 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,310.2 

911.8 

1,303.2 

1,487.3 

1,274.4 

Number  of  farms 

69,000 

69,000 

Number 

69,000 

69,000 

67,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


35 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92 --continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


KENTUCKY 


Mi l lion  dol lars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
F  ue l  and  o i l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


3,026.1 

3,460.4 

3,540.7 

3,597.0 

2,736.1 

3,148.8 

3,313.6 

3,418.9 

2,500.4 

2,927.7 

3,103.0 

3,196.2 

979.1 

1,269.6 

1,404.4 

1,490.9 

1,521.3 

1,658.0 

1,698.6 

1,705.4 

160.9 

118.4 

81.6 

73.4 

74.9 

102.7 

129.0 

149.3 

188.6 

196.2 

192.0 

176.7 

22.7 

23.2 

23.4 

21.5 

165.9 

173.0 

168.6 

155.3 

157.2 

163.8 

159.3 

145.0 

8.6 

9.3 

9.3 

10.2 

101.4 

115.4 

35.1 

1.3 

2,283.4 

2,358.9 

2,478.2 

2,527.5 

1,204.0 

1,219.5 

1,310.2 

1,393.4 

333.2 

367.8 

416.8 

469.2 

178.4 

170.1 

145.9 

128.4 

98.7 

138.2 

210.9 

274.1 

56.0 

59.6 

60.0 

66.6 

308.5 

319.0 

333.9 

349.2 

151.4 

150.3 

146.9 

156.4 

48.1 

57.3 

60.4 

70.1 

78.4 

77.5 

93.6 

89.9 

30.6 

33.9 

32.9 

32.8 

562.4 

532.7 

559.5 

575.0 

183.0 

190.9 

190.7 

192.1 

379.3 

341.9 

368.8 

382.8 

267.7 

258.8 

251.1 

228.6 

168.3 

161.7 

155.0 

138.3 

99.4 

97.1 

96.1 

90.3 

161.7 

175.8 

205.6 

198.2 

31.2 

61.4 

73.0 

79.1 

564.5 

587.5 

578.3 

569.5 

54.2 

56.0 

60.0 

58.7 

742.7 

1,101.6 

1,062.5 

1,069.5 

2,868.8 

3,296.6 

3,381 .4 

3,451.9 

2,178.9 

2,247.5 

2,361 .5 

2,414.2 

1,737.7 

1,775.3 

1,855.4 

1,929.9 

1,175.2 

1,194.1 

1,277.2 

1,356.7 

516.5 

533.8 

526.8 

521.9 

46.0 

47.4 

51.4 

51.2 

441.2 

472.2 

506.1 

484.3 

248.3 

235.0 

227.5 

207.0 

161.7 

175.8 

205.6 

198.2 

31.2 

61.4 

73.0 

79.1 

690.0 

1,049.1 

1,019.9 

1,037.8 

2,736.1 

3,148.8 

3,313.6 

3,418.9 

1,761.3 

1,818.1 

1,937.9 

1,991.9 

1,175.2 

1,194.1 

1,277.2 

1,356.7 

248.3 

235.0 

227.5 

207.0 

153.2 

167.0 

196.9 

188.4 

138.6 

174.7 

184.9 

188.5 

46.0 

47.4 

51.4 

51.2 

974.9 

1,330.7 

1,375.7 

1,427.1 

2,736.1 

3,148.8 

3,313.6 

3,418.9 

2,277.8 

2,351.9 

2,464.7 

2,513.8 

1,761.3 

1,818.1 

1,937.9 

1,991.9 

516.5 

533.8 

526.8 

521.9 

458.4 

796.9 

848.9 

905.1 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


97,000 


95,000 


93,000  91,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


3.821.3 
3,480.8 

3.221.3 
1,580.2 

1.641.1 
72.1 

187.4 

184.1 
21.0 

163.1 

154.6 
8.5 

156.4 

2.514.2 

1.362.2 

451.7 

155.1 

232.6 
64.0 

333.7 

143.1 
71.0 
88.8 

30.8 

576.8 

166.2 

410.7 

215.4 

129.7 

85.8 

202.4 

96.7 

574.6 

62.8 

1.307.1 

3.666.7 

2.404.7 
1,910.0 

1.332.7 

522.6 
54.8 

494.6 

195.5 

202.4 

96.7 

1,262.0 

3.480.8 

1.982.7 

1.332.7 

195.5 

193.9 

205.9 

54.8 

1.498.1 

3.480.8 

2.505.3 
1,982.7 

522.6 

975.6 


91,000 


continued-- 


36 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tem 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


LOUISIANA 


Mi  1 1 ion  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 
Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
Fuel  and  oi  l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


2,149.6 

2,155.9 

2,194.8 

2,138.8 

2,161.7 

2,048.4 

2,162.6 

1,997.8 

1,883.5 

1,707.8 

1,915.9 

1,728.1 

1,295.5 

1,093.8 

1,283.2 

1,091.8 

588.0 

614.0 

632.8 

636.3 

190.1 

249.8 

154.6 

174.6 

88.1 

90.8 

92.0 

95.1 

79.1 

76.4 

69.5 

62.2 

9.4 

9.5 

6.9 

5.4 

69.7 

66.8 

62.7 

56.8 

63.1 

59.9 

55.7 

49.1 

6.5 

7.0 

7.0 

7.7 

-91.2 

31.1 

-37.3 

78.8 

1,581.4 

1,697.4 

1,817.9 

1,844.3 

861.6 

958.0 

1,039.6 

1,099.8 

237.9 

262.7 

271.5 

275.8 

153.9 

172.4 

177.1 

172.0 

25.3 

26.6 

28.9 

29.5 

58.7 

63.7 

65.5 

74.3 

300.6 

342.2 

375.9 

419.0 

106.8 

113.5 

111.9 

115.7 

108.3 

140.2 

159.9 

200.1 

69.2 

70.1 

86.1 

84.8 

16.3 

18.3 

18.1 

18.3 

323.1 

353.2 

392.2 

405.0 

106.8 

118.4 

120.7 

112.3 

216.3 

234.7 

271 .5 

292.7 

208.0 

199.0 

182.2 

163.7 

96.4 

84.7 

79.4 

70.4 

111.5 

114.3 

102.8 

93.3 

122.4 

135.9 

162.6 

166.0 

153.5 

159.1 

189.7 

184.1 

210.9 

220.0 

216.9 

205.1 

24.9 

25.4 

26.8 

25.6 

568.3 

458.5 

376.9 

294.5 

2,086.5 

2,096.1 

2,139.1 

2,089.6 

1,540.4 

1,661.8 

1,782.8 

1,812.6 

1,064.2 

1,172.6 

1,253.9 

1,303.9 

851.2 

950.6 

1,032.0 

1,093.1 

190.7 

199.3 

197.8 

187.6 

22.2 

22.7 

24.1 

23.2 

476.2 

489.2 

529.0 

508.8 

200.3 

194.2 

176.6 

158.6 

122.4 

135.9 

162.6 

166.0 

153.5 

159.1 

189.7 

184.1 

546.1 

434.3 

356.3 

277.0 

2,161.7 

2,048.4 

2,162.6 

1,997.8 

1,352.2 

1,464.8 

1,586.9 

1,624.9 

851.2 

950.6 

1,032.0 

1,093.1 

200.3 

194.2 

176.6 

158.6 

115.5 

128.1 

154.6 

156.6 

162.9 

169.2 

199.6 

193.4 

22.2 

22.7 

24.1 

23.2 

809.5 

583.6 

575.7 

372.9 

2,161.7 

2,048.4 

2,162.6 

1,997.8 

1,542.9 

1,664.1 

1,784.7 

1,812.5 

1,352.2 

1,464.8 

1,586.9 

1,624.9 

190.7 

199.3 

197.8 

187.6 

618.8 

384.3 

377.9 

185.3 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


33,000 


34,000  32,000  30,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


2.259.1 
2,199.3 

1.846.2 
1,258.9 

587.3 
270.8 

82.3 

60.7 

4.8 

55.8 
50.1 

5.8 
-.8 

1,768.5 

1,043.7 

256.5 

155.7 

29.4 

71.3 
415.0 

114.8 

205.9 

75.8 

18.4 

372.3 

120.3 
252.0 
156.8 

66.0 

90.8 

158.6 

178.3 

205.1 

25.9 

490.7 

2.209.1 

1.737.1 
1,248.0 
1,037.8 

186.6 

23.5 

489.1 

152.2 
158.6 

178.3 

472.0 

2.199.3 

1,553.8 

1,037.8 

152.2 

152.8 

187.5 
23.5 

645.5 

2.199.3 

1.740.4 
1,553.8 

186.6 

458.9 


30,000 


continued-- 


37 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


MAINE 


Gross  farm  income  :  472.4 

Gross  cash  income  :  441.6 

Farm  marketings  :  413.8 

Crops  :  197.2 

Livestock  and  products  :  216.7 

Government  payments  :  7.3 

Farm-related  income  :  20.5 

Noncash  income  :  30.3 

Value  of  home  consumption  :  3.5 

Rental  value  of  dwellings  :  26.8 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/  :  24.2 

Hired  laborer  dwellings  :  2.6 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment  :  .5 

Total  production  expenses  :  368.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses  :  211.2 

Farm  origin  :  85.5 

Feed  purchased  :  66.5 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased  :  5.7 

Seed  purchased  :  13.3 

Manufactured  inputs  :  48.7 

Fertilizer  and  lime  :  17.9 

Pesticides  :  10.8 

Fuel  and  oil  :  11.9 

Electricity  :  8.1 

Other  :  77.0 

Repair  and  maintenance  :  26.4 

Other  miscellaneous  :  50.6 

Interest  :  30.4 

Real  estate  :  10.4 

Nonreal  estate  :  20.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses  :  51.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords  :  1.4 

Capital  consumption  :  58.6 

Property  taxes  :  15.7 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/  :  104.2 

Gross  receipts  of  farms  :  448.3 

Farm  production  expenses  :  351.6 

Nonfactor  payments  :  270.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses  :  207.2 

Capital  consumption  :  50.8 

Property  taxes  :  12.5 

Factor  payments  :  81.0 

Interest  :  28.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses  :  51.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords  :  1.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/  :  96.7 

Gross  cash  income  :  441.6 

Cash  expenses  :  299.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses  :  207.2 

Interest  :  28.6 

Cash  labor  expenses  :  48.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords  :  3.0 

Property  taxes  :  12.5 

NET  CASH  INCOME  :  141.8 

Gross  cash  income  :  441.6 

Farm  business  expenses  :  350.6 

Cash  expenses  :  299.8 

Capital  consumption  :  50.8 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME  :  91.0 


Number  of  farms  :  7,300 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


517.6 

Million  dollars 

564.7 

534.8 

550.3 

468.1 

520.6 

510.2 

545.3 

442.5 

491 .9 

483.6 

513.2 

226.4 

233.7 

192.1 

212.7 

216.1 

258.2 

291.5 

300.5 

7.1 

7.0 

6.1 

10.3 

18.5 

21.7 

20.5 

21.8 

32.1 

30.3 

28.2 

28.5 

2.9 

3.1 

3.5 

2.6 

29.1 

27.2 

24.7 

25.9 

26.5 

24.7 

22.2 

23.2 

2.6 

2.4 

2.5 

2.7 

17.5 

13.9 

-3.6 

-23.5 

392.2 

415.3 

412.9 

412.7 

227.5 

242.1 

243.8 

243.6 

83.6 

84.2 

86.5 

85.9 

63.7 

63.5 

63.6 

63.6 

5.5 

5.9 

6.1 

6.2 

14.4 

14.8 

16.8 

16.1 

54.4 

55.0 

57.2 

53.1 

21.2 

19.2 

20.4 

17.7 

12.6 

13.0 

14.8 

14.4 

11.8 

14.5 

14.1 

13.0 

8.7 

8.2 

7.9 

8.0 

89.5 

103.0 

100.1 

104.5 

29.3 

30.6 

29.5 

29.9 

60.2 

72.4 

70.5 

74.5 

29.0 

27.0 

24.3 

23.1 

9.7 

8.6 

7.4 

6.9 

19.4 

18.4 

16.9 

16.2 

54.4 

62.7 

61.3 

62.4 

1.7 

3.2 

3.4 

3.5 

62.0 

60.0 

58.7 

58.9 

17.6 

20.4 

21.5 

21.3 

125.5 

149.4 

121.9 

137.5 

491.1 

540.0 

512.6 

527.1 

374.8 

398.0 

396.8 

395.4 

291.2 

306.8 

309.4 

307.8 

224.2 

238.5 

240.5 

240.0 

52.9 

51.7 

51.0 

50.7 

14.1 

16.6 

17.8 

17.2 

83.5 

91.2 

87.4 

87.6 

27.4 

25.3 

22.8 

21.7 

54.4 

62.7 

61.3 

62.4 

1.7 

3.2 

3.4 

3.5 

116.3 

142.0 

115.8 

131.6 

468.1 

520.6 

510.2 

545.3 

321.0 

345.7 

344.9 

343.7 

224.2 

238.5 

240.5 

240.0 

27.4 

25.3 

22.8 

21.7 

51.8 

60.3 

58.8 

59.8 

3.5 

4.9 

5.0 

5.1 

14.1 

16.6 

17.8 

17.2 

147.1 

174.9 

165.2 

201.6 

468.1 

520.6 

510.2 

545.3 

373.9 

397.4 

395.9 

394.4 

321.0 

345.7 

344.9 

343.7 

52.9 

51.7 

51.0 

50.7 

94.1 

123.2 

114.2 

150.9 

,300 

Number 

7,200 

7,100 

7,100 

continued-- 


38 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--cont inued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

MARYLAND 

Gross  farm  income 

1,440.6 

1,531.0 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

1,548.5 

1,532.6 

1,596.1 

Gross  cash  income 

1,369.0 

1,463.5 

1,471.7 

1,474.2 

1,506.6 

Farm  marketings 

1,222.0 

1,333.9 

1,359.5 

1,352.0 

1,390.8 

Crops 

454.4 

474.8 

537.0 

563.8 

586.8 

Livestock  and  products 

767.6 

859.1 

822.5 

788.2 

804.0 

Government  payments 

42.7 

23.7 

17.4 

15.3 

16.1 

Farm-related  income 

104.3 

105.9 

94.8 

106.8 

99.8 

Noncash  income 

69.5 

67.9 

63.5 

59.3 

66.1 

Value  of  home  consumption 

6.6 

6.4 

7.9 

7.3 

8.3 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

62.9 

61.5 

55.6 

52.0 

57.8 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

58.9 

57.5 

51.8 

48.1 

53.6 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

4.0 

4.0 

3.8 

3.9 

4.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

2.2 

-.3 

13.4 

-.9 

23.4 

Total  production  expenses 

1,088.0 

1,163.7 

1,189.5 

1,205.7 

1,207.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

743.4 

804.2 

811.6 

833.8 

834.1 

Farm  origin 

353.1 

380.4 

391 .0 

389.1 

414.1 

Feed  purchased 

261.4 

279.4 

282.8 

279.8 

289.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

63.3 

70.2 

76.5 

73.5 

90.5 

Seed  purchased 

28.3 

30.8 

31.7 

35.9 

34.5 

Manufactured  inputs 

129.7 

125.8 

130.0 

153.7 

144.7 

Ferti lizer  and  l ime 

61.4 

52.2 

50.6 

72.1 

66.4 

Pesticides 

23.1 

27.0 

28.0 

31.8 

30.9 

Fuel  and  oi l 

28.0 

28.1 

34.2 

33.1 

30.5 

Electricity 

17.2 

18.4 

17.3 

16.7 

17.0 

Other 

260.6 

298.0 

290.6 

290.9 

275.3 

Repair  and  maintenance 

61.2 

64.8 

66.8 

66.3 

70.3 

Other  miscellaneous 

199.4 

233.2 

223.8 

224.6 

205.1 

Interest 

84.9 

85.6 

81 .7 

72.5 

68.5 

Real  estate 

51.1 

51.8 

47.6 

41.2 

38.6 

Nonreal  estate 

33.8 

33.7 

34.1 

31.4 

29.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

80.1 

85.2 

97.9 

95.5 

97.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

6.7 

11.3 

22.2 

26.3 

26.9 

Capital  consumption 

142.8 

144.0 

137.6 

137.3 

140.5 

Property  taxes 

30.0 

33.4 

38.5 

40.4 

40.6 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

352.7 

367.3 

359.0 

326.9 

388.2 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

1,381.7 

1,473.6 

1,496.7 

1,484.5 

1,542.4 

Farm  production  expenses 

1,050.6 

1,126.9 

1,153.5 

1,171.7 

1,170.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

885.3 

951.8 

959.1 

984.2 

984.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

734.2 

797.3 

804.2 

826.9 

826.2 

Capital  consumption 

125.3 

125.7 

121.3 

121.9 

123.0 

Property  taxes 

25.8 

28.8 

33.5 

35.4 

35.2 

Factor  payments 

165.3 

175.1 

194.5 

187.5 

186.4 

Interest 

78.4 

78.6 

74.4 

65.7 

62.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

80.1 

85.2 

97.9 

95.5 

97.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

6.7 

11.3 

22.2 

26.3 

26.9 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

331.2 

346.6 

343.2 

312.8 

371.7 

Gross  cash  income 

1,369.0 

1,463.5 

1,471.7 

1,474.2 

1,506.6 

Cash  expenses 

931.0 

1,007.2 

1,038.1 

1,055.4 

1,053.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

734.2 

797.3 

804.2 

826.9 

826.2 

Interest 

78.4 

78.6 

74.4 

65.7 

62.1 

Cash  labor  expenses 

76.1 

81.3 

94.3 

91.6 

93.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

16.4 

21.2 

31.7 

35.7 

36.4 

Property  taxes 

25.8 

28.8 

33.5 

35.4 

35.2 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

438.0 

456.3 

433.6 

418.8 

453.6 

Gross  cash  income 

1,369.0 

1,463.5 

1,471.7 

1,474.2 

1,506.6 

Farm  business  expenses 

1,056.2 

1,132.9 

1,159.4 

1,177.2 

1,176.1 

Cash  expenses 

931.0 

1,007.2 

1,038.1 

1,055.4 

1,053.1 

Capital  consumption 

125.3 

125.7 

121.3 

121.9 

123.0 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

312.7 

330.6 

312.3 

296.9 

330.5 

Number  of  farms 

16,000 

15,600 

Number 

15,200 

15,400 

15,600 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  cont inued- - 


39 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Gross  farm  income 

477.2 

488.0 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

504.5 

537.1 

556.0 

Gross  cash  income 

432.6 

452.5 

463.8 

502.5 

512.7 

Farm  marketings 

416.6 

432.7 

443.4 

485.4 

491.2 

Crops 

311.7 

319.8 

318.7 

356.0 

356.3 

Livestock  and  products 

105.0 

112.9 

124.7 

129.4 

134.9 

Government  payments 

2.8 

3.9 

3.0 

1.5 

4.8 

Farm-related  income 

13.2 

15.9 

17.4 

15.6 

16.7 

Noncash  income 

45.1 

40.4 

38.3 

36.0 

37.6 

Value  of  home  consumption 

2.4 

1.7 

2.0 

2.5 

2.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

42.7 

38.7 

36.3 

33.6 

35.5 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

39.3 

35.4 

33.2 

30.3 

32.0 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

3.4 

3.4 

3.1 

3.2 

3.4 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-.5 

-4.9 

2.4 

-1.4 

5.7 

Total  production  expenses 

316.6 

335.0 

360.0 

358.3 

355.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

149.5 

161.7 

175.2 

177.7 

173.0 

Farm  origin 

36.9 

39.8 

42.3 

44.5 

43.2 

Feed  purchased 

27.9 

30.1 

32.2 

33.3 

32.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

1.2 

1.3 

1 .4 

1.4 

1.4 

Seed  purchased 

7.8 

8.4 

8.7 

9.8 

9.4 

Manufactured  inputs 

35.9 

34.5 

39.7 

40.5 

38.7 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

11.8 

8.8 

11.8 

12.0 

11.5 

Pesticides 

6.5 

7.6 

7.9 

9.0 

8.7 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

11.2 

11.2 

13.7 

13.3 

12.2 

Electricity 

6.4 

6.9 

6.4 

6.2 

6.3 

Other 

76.7 

87.4 

93.2 

92.7 

91.1 

Repair  and  maintenance 

29.2 

30.5 

32.7 

31.8 

34.0 

Other  miscellaneous 

47.5 

57.0 

60.5 

60.9 

57.1 

Interest 

21.4 

22.3 

21 .6 

19.4 

18.4 

Real  estate 

6.9 

8.2 

7.4 

6.4 

6.0 

Nonreal  estate 

14.5 

14.1 

14.2 

13.0 

12.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

66.6 

70.9 

81.5 

79.4 

81.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-2.6 

-2.5 

-1.8 

-1.4 

-1.5 

Capital  consumption 

62.5 

61.3 

59.4 

58.3 

58.9 

Property  taxes 

19.2 

21.2 

24.2 

24.9 

26.0 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

160.7 

153.0 

144.4 

178.8 

200.1 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

437.9 

452.7 

471 .3 

506.7 

524.0 

Farm  production  expenses 

293.2 

314.4 

339.6 

339.1 

335.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

209.5 

224.8 

239.5 

242.8 

238.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

143.3 

157.4 

170.4 

173.3 

168.1 

Capital  consumption 

50.0 

49.2 

48.2 

47.7 

47.5 

Property  taxes 

16.3 

18.2 

21.0 

21.8 

22.5 

Factor  payments 

83.7 

89.6 

100.1 

96.3 

96.9 

Interest 

19.7 

21.2 

20.4 

18.3 

17.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

66.6 

70.9 

81 .5 

79.4 

81.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-2.6 

-2.5 

-1.8 

-1.4 

-1.5 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

144.7 

138.3 

131.7 

167.6 

188.9 

Gross  cash  income 

432.6 

452.5 

463.8 

502.5 

512.7 

Cash  expenses 

241.5 

263.5 

289.9 

289.6 

285.5 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

143.3 

157.4 

170.4 

173.3 

168.1 

Interest 

19.7 

21.2 

20.4 

18.3 

17.4 

Cash  labor  expenses 

63.2 

67.6 

78.4 

76.2 

77.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-1.1 

-.9 

-.3 

.1 

.0 

Property  taxes 

16.3 

18.2 

21 .0 

21.8 

22.5 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

191.2 

189.0 

173.9 

212.8 

227.2 

Gross  cash  income 

432.6 

452.5 

463.8 

502.5 

512.7 

Farm  business  expenses 

291.5 

312.6 

338.1 

337.4 

333.1 

Cash  expenses 

241.5 

263.5 

289.9 

289.6 

285.5 

Capital  consumption 

50.0 

49.2 

48.2 

47.7 

47.5 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

141.2 

139.9 

125.7 

165.1 

179.7 

Number  of  farms 

6,900 

6,900 

Number 

6,900 

6,900 

6,900 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


40 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92- -continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

MICHIGAN 

Gross  farm  income 

3,213.0 

3,778.1 

Mi  1 1 ion  dollars 

3,725.3 

3,756.3 

3,787.0 

Gross  cash  income 

3,203.3 

3,384.0 

3,493.0 

3,561.7 

3,649.8 

Farm  marketings 

2,728.4 

2,923.9 

3,111.9 

3,209.9 

3,286.3 

Crops 

1,518.4 

1,612.6 

1,705.0 

1,922.2 

1,961.7 

Livestock  and  products 

1,210.0 

1,311.3 

1,406.9 

1,287.7 

1,324.6 

Government  payments 

303.0 

262.0 

168.8 

123.7 

142.5 

Farm-related  income 

171.9 

198.1 

212.3 

228.1 

221.0 

Noncash  income 

153.8 

153.0 

160.6 

160.1 

161.8 

Value  of  home  consumption 

20.5 

15.2 

16.1 

14.0 

14.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

133.4 

137.8 

144.5 

146.1 

147.6 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

120.7 

124.3 

131.1 

131.4 

136.3 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

12.7 

13.5 

13.4 

14.7 

11.3 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-144.1 

241.1 

71 .7 

34.6 

-24.5 

Total  production  expenses 

2,747.2 

2,915.6 

3,100.6 

3,239.1 

3,206.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,491.7 

1,611.8 

1,710.4 

1,843.0 

1,781.0 

Farm  origin 

471.1 

491.1 

504.4 

543.3 

552.7 

Feed  purchased 

299.9 

307.7 

309.9 

301.9 

321.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

37.1 

37.6 

44.4 

70.9 

66.9 

Seed  purchased 

134.1 

145.7 

150.2 

170.5 

163.8 

Manufactured  inputs 

481.6 

526.6 

563.8 

620.8 

595.1 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

210.2 

221.4 

220.4 

247.0 

235.9 

Pesticides 

110.4 

139.0 

154.5 

189.1 

180.9 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

111.0 

110.9 

135.2 

131.2 

126.4 

Electricity 

49.9 

55.3 

53.7 

53.6 

51.9 

Other 

539.0 

594.2 

642.2 

678.8 

633.3 

Repair  and  maintenance 

223.4 

247.4 

259.6 

268.1 

224.8 

Other  miscellaneous 

315.6 

346.8 

382.6 

410.7 

408.4 

Interest 

298.2 

278.2 

268.2 

246.7 

232.4 

Real  estate 

167.2 

153.9 

145.0 

130.2 

122.1 

Nonreal  estate 

130.9 

124.3 

123.3 

116.6 

110.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

248.7 

283.0 

346.4 

363.2 

385.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

17.4 

17.0 

15.2 

13.4 

14.4 

Capital  consumption 

461.9 

475.4 

478.0 

486.4 

492.7 

Property  taxes 

229.3 

250.3 

282.3 

286.4 

300.4 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

465.8 

862.5 

624.7 

517.2 

580.7 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

3,092.3 

3,653.8 

3,594.3 

3,624.9 

3,650.7 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,628.0 

2,793.1 

2,966.0 

3,103.4 

3,070.9 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,084.3 

2,233.1 

2,354.9 

2,497.5 

2,454.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,469.5 

1,592.9 

1,686.2 

1,816.0 

1,757.3 

Capital  consumption 

425.3 

434.8 

436.1 

443.7 

444.9 

Property  taxes 

189.5 

205.4 

232.6 

237.8 

252.6 

Factor  payments 

543.7 

560.0 

611.1 

605.9 

616.1 

Interest 

277.6 

259.9 

249.5 

229.3 

216.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

248.7 

283.0 

346.4 

363.2 

385.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

17.4 

17.0 

15.2 

13.4 

14.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

464.3 

860.7 

628.3 

521.5 

579.8 

Gross  cash  income 

3,203.3 

3,384.0 

3,493.0 

3,561.7 

3,649.8 

Cash  expenses 

2,230.8 

2,387.2 

2,559.3 

2,687.7 

2,658.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,469.5 

1,592.9 

1,686.2 

1,816.0 

1,757.3 

Interest 

277.6 

259.9 

249.5 

229.3 

216.3 

Cash  labor  expenses 

235.9 

269.4 

332.8 

347.7 

374.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

58.3 

59.7 

58.2 

56.9 

58.0 

Property  taxes 

189.5 

205.4 

232.6 

237.8 

252.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

972.5 

996.8 

933.7 

874.0 

991.6 

Gross  cash  income 

3,203.3 

3,384.0 

3,493.0 

3,561.7 

3,649.8 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,656.1 

2,822.1 

2,995.4 

3,131.4 

3,103.1 

Cash  expenses 

2,230.8 

2,387.2 

2,559.3 

2,687.7 

2,658.2 

Capital  consumption 

425.3 

434.8 

436.1 

443.7 

444.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

547.2 

561.9 

497.6 

430.3 

546.7 

Number  of  farms 

56,000 

55,000 

Number 

54,000 

54,000 

54,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


41 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--cont inued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

MINNESOTA 

Gross  farm  income 

7,176.2 

8,240.4 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

8,508.8 

7,885.0 

7,975.5 

Gross  cash  income 

7,498.6 

7,353.4 

7,670.3 

8,061.8 

7,730.5 

Farm  marketings 

6,233.3 

6,505.9 

6,888.5 

7,378.1 

7,082.1 

Crops 

2,743.2 

2,812.5 

3,139.1 

3,785.6 

3,459.8 

Livestock  and  products 

3,490.1 

3,693.4 

3,749.4 

3,592.5 

3,622.3 

Government  payments 

1,035.9 

599.9 

511.8 

435.8 

422.0 

Farm-related  income 

229.3 

247.6 

270.1 

247.9 

226.4 

Noncash  income 

231.7 

249.1 

267.3 

263.7 

265.5 

Value  of  home  consumption 

33.7 

29.1 

30.2 

25.2 

26.2 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

197.9 

220.0 

237.1 

238.5 

239.2 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

185.2 

206.4 

223.6 

223.7 

227.9 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

12.7 

13.6 

13.5 

14.8 

11.4 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-554.1 

637.9 

571 .2 

-440.5 

-20.4 

Total  production  expenses 

5,715.3 

6,057.5 

6,452.7 

6,614.4 

6,495.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

3,398.4 

3,653.0 

3,929.7 

4,124.4 

3,986.3 

Farm  origin 

1,377.8 

1,443.0 

1,501.3 

1,529.1 

1,554.1 

Feed  purchased 

804.0 

855.2 

841.0 

818.5 

861.5 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

325.7 

318.3 

382.6 

395.2 

389.6 

Seed  purchased 

248.1 

269.5 

277.8 

315.4 

303.0 

Manufactured  inputs 

914.8 

995.2 

1,111.2 

1,179.8 

1,125.6 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

372.9 

390.3 

431 .2 

446.1 

420.1 

Pesticides 

200.1 

251.9 

280.1 

342.7 

327.9 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

232.1 

231.6 

281.9 

273.2 

263.5 

Electricity 

109.7 

121.5 

118.0 

117.7 

114.1 

Other 

1,105.8 

1,214.8 

1,317.2 

1,415.5 

1,306.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

Other  miscellaneous 

382.1 

428.3 

457.7 

466.6 

390.6 

723.7 

786.5 

859.5 

948.9 

916.1 

Interest 

708.8 

685.6 

662.6 

610.1 

569.6 

Real  estate 

373.9 

351.4 

332.4 

298.5 

279.9 

Nonreal  estate 

334.8 

334.2 

330.2 

311.6 

289.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

247.0 

281.0 

344.5 

362.0 

385.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

289.3 

313.3 

348.4 

335.6 

349.8 

Capital  consumption 

856.0 

889.0 

901 .6 

912.6 

920.4 

Property  taxes 

215.9 

235.7 

265.8 

269.7 

283.4 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

1,460.9 

2,182.9 

2,056.1 

1,270.6 

1,480.5 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

6,991.0 

8,033.9 

8,285.2 

7,661.3 

7,747.6 

Farm  production  expenses 

5,575.6 

5,896.2 

6,273.5 

6,433.2 

6,315.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

4,356.3 

4,652.2 

4,954.8 

5,159.9 

5,041.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

3,365.4 

3,622.8 

3,890.0 

4,080.4 

3,947.8 

Capital  consumption 

802.4 

825.2 

833.8 

843.8 

844.0 

Property  taxes 

188.5 

204.2 

231 .0 

235.6 

249.9 

Factor  payments 

1,219.4 

1,244.0 

1,318.8 

1,273.3 

1,273.3 

Interest 

683.1 

649.7 

625.8 

575.8 

538.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

247.0 

281.0 

344.5 

362.0 

385.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

289.3 

313.3 

348.4 

335.6 

349.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

1,415.4 

2,137.7 

2,011.7 

1,228.1 

1,432.6 

Gross  cash  income 

7,498.6 

7,353.4 

7,670.3 

8,061.8 

7,730.5 

Cash  expenses 

4,827.1 

5,127.8 

5,497.6 

5,645.7 

5,531.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

3,365.4 

3,622.8 

3,890.0 

4,080.4 

3,947.8 

Interest 

683.1 

649.7 

625.8 

575.8 

538.0 

Cash  labor  expenses 

234.1 

267.3 

330.9 

346.4 

374.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

356.0 

383.8 

420.0 

407.5 

421.5 

Property  taxes 

188.5 

204.2 

231.0 

235.6 

249.9 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

2,671.4 

2,225.6 

2,172.7 

2,416.1 

2,199.1 

Gross  cash  income 

7,498.6 

7,353.4 

7,670.3 

8,061.8 

7,730.5 

Farm  business  expenses 

5,629.5 

5,953.0 

6,331.4 

6,489.6 

6,375.3 

Cash  expenses 

4,827.1 

5,127.8 

5,497.6 

5,645.7 

5,531.4 

Capital  consumption 

802.4 

825.2 

833.8 

843.8 

844.0 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,869.1 

1,400.4 

1,338.9 

1,572.3 

1,355.1 

Number  of  farms 

92,000 

90,000 

Number 

89,000 

88,000 

88,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  cont inued- - 


42 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tem 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


MISSISSIPPI 


Million  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
Fuel  and  oi l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


2,912.6 

2,896.1 

2,894.1 

2,995.8 

2,733.0 

2,785.0 

2,789.1 

2,744.3 

2,311.5 

2,275.8 

2,432.6 

2,383.3 

1,130.6 

981.0 

1,110.8 

1,107.8 

1,180.9 

1,294.8 

1,321.8 

1,275.5 

242.5 

325.2 

186.0 

176.3 

179.1 

184.0 

170.5 

184.7 

122.6 

120.9 

120.1 

109.3 

11.5 

8.6 

9.5 

8.4 

111.2 

112.3 

110.6 

101.0 

103.5 

104.2 

102.4 

92.0 

7.6 

8.1 

8.1 

8.9 

56.9 

-9.7 

-15.0 

142.1 

2,165.5 

2,363.3 

2,516.7 

2,623.3 

1,348.7 

1,517.0 

1,645.3 

1,768.6 

530.4 

589.3 

609.7 

643.4 

398.9 

447.2 

459.3 

478.3 

84.4 

90.9 

97.8 

105.5 

47.1 

51.1 

52.6 

59.7 

329.7 

399.3 

467.4 

509.9 

100.3 

129.0 

155.4 

152.6 

125.7 

162.7 

185.5 

232.2 

81.5 

82.6 

101.8 

100.2 

22.3 

25.0 

24.7 

24.9 

488.5 

528.5 

568.2 

615.3 

136.0 

143.6 

144.4 

142.7 

352.5 

384.8 

423.7 

472.6 

279.0 

273.2 

250.7 

225.5 

141.4 

130.7 

122.8 

108.9 

137.6 

142.6 

127.9 

116.6 

144.2 

160.1 

191.4 

195.2 

102.9 

113.2 

130.9 

143.7 

258.0 

266.0 

262.1 

254.7 

32.8 

33.8 

36.2 

35.5 

747.1 

532.8 

377.5 

372.5 

2,809.0 

2,792.0 

2,791.7 

2,903.8 

2,099.0 

2,303.5 

2,455.9 

2,568.2 

1,585.5 

1,764.3 

1,891 .1 

2,011.3 

1,332.1 

1,504.6 

1,631 .8 

1,756.8 

225.1 

230.4 

227.6 

222.9 

28.4 

29.2 

31.6 

31.5 

513.5 

539.2 

564.8 

556.9 

266.4 

266.0 

242.4 

218.0 

144.2 

160.1 

191.4 

195.2 

102.9 

113.2 

130.9 

143.7 

710.0 

488.5 

335.8 

335.6 

2,733.0 

2,785.0 

2,789.1 

2,744.3 

1,872.5 

2,071.1 

2,225.8 

2,340.9 

1,332.1 

1,504.6 

1,631.8 

1,756.8 

266.4 

266.0 

242.4 

218.0 

136.1 

151.0 

182.1 

184.2 

109.6 

120.2 

137.8 

150.4 

28.4 

29.2 

31.6 

31.5 

860.5 

713.9 

563.3 

403.5 

2,733.0 

2,785.0 

2,789.1 

2,744.3 

2,097.6 

2,301.5 

2,453.5 

2,563.8 

1,872.5 

2,071.1 

2,225.8 

2,340.9 

225.1 

230.4 

227.6 

222.9 

635.4 

483.5 

335.6 

180.5 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


42,000 


41,000  40,000  38,000 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


3.211.3 
3,057.6 
2,602.0 

1.246.9 

1.355.1 
279.9 

175.8 
105.3 

8.1 

97.1 

90.4 
6.7 

48.4 

2.537.6 

1.704.1 

614.2 

446.8 

110.2 
57.3 

499.3 

145.1 

238.9 

90.2 
25.1 

590.6 

151.3 

439.4 

214.7 

102.1 
112.6 
187.0 
143.0 

254.2 

34.6 

673.7 

3.120.9 

2.483.6 

1.945.8 

1.693.8 

221.4 

30.6 

537.8 

207.8 
187.0 
143.0 

637.3 

3,057.6 

2,262.0 

1,693.8 

207.8 

180.2 

149.5 
30.6 

795.6 
3,057.6 

2.483.3 
2,262.0 

221.4 

574.3 


38,000 


continued- - 


43 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92- -continued 


I  tern 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  ! 

1991 

:  1992 

MISSOURI 

Gross  farm  income 

4,511.6 

4,873.7 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

4,737.9 

4,700.1 

5,127.4 

Gross  cash  income 

4,408.4 

4,445.0 

4,451.1 

4,345.2 

4,574.8 

Farm  marketings 

3,795.6 

3,921.1 

3,984.5 

3,910.9 

4,123.3 

Crops 

1,741.4 

1,752.1 

1,655.4 

1,642.5 

1,934.9 

Livestock  and  products 

2,054.3 

2,169.0 

2,329.1 

2,268.4 

2,188.4 

Government  payments 

456.9 

356.4 

299.1 

268.6 

293.6 

Farm-related  income 

155.8 

167.5 

167.5 

165.7 

157.9 

Noncash  income 

249.8 

251.7 

255.1 

250.5 

257.9 

Value  of  home  consumption 

36.4 

31.2 

37.3 

37.1 

31.4 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

213.4 

220.5 

217.8 

213.5 

226.5 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

205.2 

212.2 

209.9 

205.1 

218.8 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

8.2 

8.3 

7.9 

8.3 

7.7 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-146.6 

177.0 

31.7 

104.4 

294.7 

Total  production  expenses 

3,811.9 

3,976.9 

4,019.4 

4,117.9 

4,252.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,145.4 

2,280.7 

2,350.9 

2,484.5 

2,567.4 

Farm  origin 

795.9 

837.1 

869.7 

928.1 

985.2 

Feed  purchased 

603.1 

624.3 

642.5 

668.4 

725.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

67.6 

79.1 

91.7 

108.6 

114.2 

Seed  purchased 

125.2 

133.7 

135.4 

151.1 

145.2 

Manufactured  inputs 

625.6 

692.2 

714.0 

758.0 

772.0 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

294.4 

334.2 

318.0 

342.4 

351.1 

Pesticides 

121.5 

149.5 

162.9 

195.4 

200.1 

Fuel  and  oi l 

157.7 

152.9 

181.1 

170.4 

168.8 

Electricity 

52.1 

55.6 

52.0 

49.8 

52.1 

Other 

723.8 

751.3 

767.2 

798.5 

810.2 

Repair  and  maintenance 

Other  miscellaneous 

328.8 

354.9 

369.4 

383.6 

369.1 

395.1 

396.4 

397.8 

414.8 

441.1 

Interest 

467.7 

454.0 

440.4 

404.0 

381.1 

Real  estate 

271.3 

261.9 

252.0 

227.0 

212.8 

Nonreal  estate 

196.4 

192.1 

188.4 

177.1 

168.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

160.3 

170.1 

194.5 

184.8 

196.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

304.8 

307.3 

265.8 

274.1 

326.7 

Capital  consumption 

638.1 

665.4 

660.5 

665.1 

675.6 

Property  taxes 

95.6 

99.4 

107.4 

105.2 

105.2 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

699.7 

896.8 

718.5 

582.2 

874.8 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

4,306.3 

4,661.5 

4,528.0 

4,495.0 

4,908.7 

Farm  production  expenses 

3,684.5 

3,851.0 

3,889.8 

3,993.0 

4,121.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,774.8 

2,940.8 

3,012.3 

3,151.4 

3,237.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,114.7 

2,257.2 

2,324.5 

2,459.7 

2,542.9 

Capital  consumption 

576.6 

597.3 

594.3 

599.6 

602.5 

Property  taxes 

83.5 

86.3 

93.5 

92.1 

91.6 

Factor  payments 

909.7 

910.1 

877.5 

841.6 

884.8 

Interest 

444.5 

432.7 

417.3 

382.7 

361.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

160.3 

170.1 

194.5 

184.8 

196.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

304.8 

307.3 

265.8 

274.1 

326.7 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

621.9 

810.6 

638.2 

502.0 

786.9 

Gross  cash  income 

4,408.4 

4,445.0 

4,451.1 

4,345.2 

4,574.8 

Cash  expenses 

3,132.9 

3,280.7 

3,322.8 

3,419.9 

3,546.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,114.7 

2,257.2 

2,324.5 

2,459.7 

2,542.9 

Interest 

444.5 

432.7 

417.3 

382.7 

361.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

152.0 

161.7 

186.5 

176.2 

188.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

338.2 

342.8 

301 .0 

309.3 

362.1 

Property  taxes 

83.5 

86.3 

93.5 

92.1 

91.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,275.5 

1,164.3 

1,128.3 

925.2 

1,028.1 

Gross  cash  income 

4,408.4 

4,445.0 

4,451.1 

4,345.2 

4,574.8 

Farm  business  expenses 

3,709.5 

3,878.1 

3,917.1 

4,019.6 

4,149.2 

Cash  expenses 

3,132.9 

3,280.7 

3,322.8 

3,419.9 

3,546.8 

Capital  consumption 

576.6 

597.3 

594.3 

599.6 

602.5 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

698.8 

566.9 

534.0 

325.6 

425.6 

Number  of  farms 

110,000 

109,000 

Number 

108,000 

107,000 

107,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


44 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tem 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

MONTANA 

Mi l lion  dollars 

Gross  farm  income 

1,737.2 

2,183.2 

2,091 .4 

2,207.8 

2,085.1 

Gross  cash  income 

1,840.5 

1,900.8 

2,014.2 

1,893.4 

2,099.6 

Farm  marketings 

1,401.4 

1,553.0 

1,653.4 

1,514.4 

1,742.4 

Crops 

585.2 

623.7 

765.2 

704.4 

821.1 

Livestock  and  products 

816.3 

929.3 

888.2 

810.0 

921.3 

Government  payments 

386.7 

289.4 

299.6 

320.1 

298.8 

Farm-related  income 

52.3 

58.4 

61 .2 

58.9 

58.4 

Noncash  income 

89.5 

93.9 

96.2 

95.3 

98.1 

Value  of  home  consumption 

11.4 

11.6 

10.9 

11.5 

11.4 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

78.1 

82.2 

85.3 

83.8 

86.7 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

72.4 

75.6 

78.2 

75.7 

80.8 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

5.8 

6.6 

7.1 

8.2 

5.9 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-192.8 

188.5 

-19.0 

219.1 

-112.6 

Total  production  expenses 

1,550.5 

1,659.3 

1,682.0 

1,631.2 

1,622.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

766.6 

822.9 

849.1 

830.6 

843.1 

Farm  origin 

227.5 

235.1 

229.4 

216.4 

200.6 

Feed  purchased 

130.4 

127.8 

116.1 

100.8 

95.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

63.0 

70.3 

75.1 

72.3 

63.9 

Seed  purchased 

34.2 

37.1 

38.2 

43.3 

41.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

244.6 

251.9 

267.1 

267.1 

268.8 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

81.2 

79.9 

77.8 

77.2 

87.6 

Pesticides 

51.6 

57.6 

56.5 

60.5 

60.9 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

87.0 

86.6 

105.6 

102.0 

90.8 

Electricity 

24.8 

27.7 

27.2 

27.4 

29.5 

Other 

294.4 

335.9 

352.6 

347.0 

373.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

112.5 

121.4 

117.3 

113.8 

136.7 

Other  miscellaneous 

181.9 

214.4 

235.3 

233.3 

237.0 

Interest 

268.1 

247.9 

238.1 

218.0 

205.0 

Real  estate 

165.8 

151.9 

142.7 

128.9 

120.8 

Nonreal  estate 

102.3 

96.0 

95.4 

89.1 

84.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

95.5 

99.7 

111.5 

104.6 

98.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

93.9 

150.7 

136.6 

131.5 

126.7 

Capital  consumption 

246.6 

255.8 

258.3 

259.6 

259.7 

Property  taxes 

79.8 

82.3 

88.4 

87.0 

89.9 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

186.7 

523.8 

409.4 

576.5 

462.5 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

1,664.8 

2,107.6 

2,013.2 

2,132.1 

2,004.3 

Farm  production  expenses 

1,504.4 

1,610.6 

1,631 .2 

1,583.2 

1,573.6 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,053.7 

1,121.3 

1,154.6 

1,138.1 

1,151.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

754.9 

813.8 

839.1 

821.7 

834.5 

Capital  consumption 

224.4 

230.8 

232.8 

234.6 

232.7 

Property  taxes 

74.4 

76.7 

82.7 

81.8 

84.6 

Factor  payments 

450.7 

489.3 

476.6 

445.2 

421.9 

Interest 

261.2 

238.8 

228.6 

209.1 

196.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

95.5 

99.7 

111.5 

104.6 

98.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

93.9 

150.7 

136.6 

131.5 

126.7 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

160.4 

497.0 

382.0 

548.9 

430.6 

Gross  cash  income 

1,840.5 

1,900.8 

2,014.2 

1,893.4 

2,099.6 

Cash  expenses 

1,285.1 

1,384.4 

1,402.6 

1,351.1 

1,346.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

754.9 

813.8 

839.1 

821.7 

834.5 

Interest 

261.2 

238.8 

228.6 

209.1 

196.9 

Cash  labor  expenses 

89.5 

92.7 

103.8 

95.3 

92.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

105.0 

162.5 

148.4 

143.3 

138.4 

Property  taxes 

74.4 

76.7 

82.7 

81.8 

84.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

555.4 

516.4 

611.7 

542.3 

752.9 

Gross  cash  income 

1,840.5 

1,900.8 

2,014.2 

1,893.4 

2,099.6 

Farm  business  expenses 

1,509.5 

1,615.2 

1,635.4 

1,585.7 

1,579.4 

Cash  expenses 

1,285.1 

1,384.4 

1,402.6 

1,351.1 

1,346.7 

Capital  consumption 

224.4 

230.8 

232.8 

234.6 

232.7 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

331.0 

285.6 

378.8 

307.7 

520.2 

Number 

Number  of  farms 

24,600 

24,700 

24,700 

24,700 

24,600 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


45 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

NEBRASKA 

Gross  farm  income 

9,540.0 

9,734.9 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

10,291 .4 

9,801.6 

9,970.4 

Gross  cash  income 

9,218.0 

9,594.2 

9,624.8 

9,861.0 

9,522.7 

Farm  marketings 

7,801.4 

8,725.9 

8,715.0 

9,044.5 

8,782.7 

Crops 

2,411.1 

3,079.9 

2,638.8 

3,111.1 

3,109.1 

Livestock  and  products 

5,390.3 

5,646.0 

6,076.2 

5,933.3 

5,673.6 

Government  payments 

1,091.5 

542.3 

624.6 

490.7 

478.7 

Farm- related  income 

325.0 

326.0 

285.2 

325.9 

261.4 

Noncash  income 

125.9 

134.4 

132.7 

127.9 

130.4 

Value  of  home  consumption 

17.3 

15.2 

15.0 

14.2 

13.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

108.6 

119.1 

117.7 

113.7 

117.3 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

96.5 

107.6 

107.4 

103.7 

105.2 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

12.1 

11.5 

10.2 

10.0 

12.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

196.1 

6.3 

533.9 

-187.4 

317.3 

Total  production  expenses 

7,377.5 

7,668.5 

7,742.9 

7,378.8 

7,278.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

5,084.7 

5,414.3 

5,451.3 

5,173.8 

5,121.3 

Farm  origin 

3,244.8 

3,489.7 

3,528.8 

3,178.8 

3,138.0 

Feed  purchased 

900.8 

878.2 

819.2 

733.7 

710.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

2,156.7 

2,420.0 

2,524.4 

2,248.6 

2,239.0 

Seed  purchased 

187.2 

191.5 

185.2 

196.5 

188.8 

Manufactured  inputs 

765.2 

834.6 

872.3 

870.9 

873.2 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

297.5 

338.4 

328.6 

317.3 

314.1 

Pesticides 

132.8 

157.2 

164.7 

190.0 

207.8 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

239.0 

232.3 

275.1 

259.6 

249.6 

Electricity 

96.0 

106.6 

103.9 

103.9 

101.7 

Other 

1,074.7 

1,090.0 

1,050.1 

1,124.1 

1,110.1 

Repair  and  maintenance 

307.1 

330.5 

332.3 

328.2 

335.8 

Other  miscellaneous 

767.6 

759.5 

717.8 

795.9 

774.3 

Interest 

651.3 

634.7 

609.0 

559.5 

525.1 

Real  estate 

282.0 

261.9 

243.2 

212.7 

199.5 

Nonreal  estate 

369.3 

372.8 

365.9 

346.7 

325.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

233.1 

231.3 

246.5 

208.0 

219.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

584.4 

536.7 

570.1 

584.0 

547.4 

Capital  consumption 

571.9 

592.0 

589.8 

589.2 

593.1 

Property  taxes 

252.1 

259.5 

276.2 

264.3 

271.5 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

2,162.6 

2,066.4 

2,548.4 

2,422.8 

2,692.4 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

9,443.6 

9,627.3 

10,183.9 

9,697.9 

9,865.2 

Farm  production  expenses 

7,300.8 

7,585.1 

7,650.3 

7,284.6 

7,191.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

5,842.8 

6,193.9 

6,238.1 

5,945.4 

5,910.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

5,063.7 

5,393.3 

5,422.4 

5,139.3 

5,096.0 

Capital  consumption 

543.7 

558.9 

557.5 

558.1 

558.3 

Property  taxes 

235.3 

241.7 

258.1 

248.1 

255.7 

Factor  payments 

1,458.1 

1,391.1 

1,412.2 

1,339.1 

1,281.0 

Interest 

640.6 

623.2 

595.6 

547.1 

514.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

233.1 

231.3 

246.5 

208.0 

219.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

584.4 

536.7 

570.1 

584.0 

547.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

2,142.7 

2,042.2 

2,533.6 

2,413.3 

2,674.2 

Gross  cash  income 

9,218.0 

9,594.2 

9,624.8 

9,861.0 

9,522.7 

Cash  expenses 

6,790.5 

7,062.6 

7,130.2 

6,763.1 

6,668.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

5,063.7 

5,393.3 

5,422.4 

5,139.3 

5,096.0 

Interest 

640.6 

623.2 

595.6 

547.1 

514.0 

Cash  labor  expenses 

220.5 

219.2 

235.6 

196.8 

207.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

630.3 

585.3 

618.4 

631.9 

595.1 

Property  taxes 

235.3 

241.7 

258.1 

248.1 

255.7 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

2,427.5 

2,531.6 

2,494.7 

3,097.9 

2,854.7 

Gross  cash  income 

9,218.0 

9,594.2 

9,624.8 

9,861.0 

9,522.7 

Farm  business  expenses 

7,334.2 

7,621.6 

7,687.7 

7,321.2 

7,226.4 

Cash  expenses 

6,790.5 

7,062.6 

7,130.2 

6,763.1 

6,668.1 

Capital  consumption 

543.7 

558.9 

557.5 

558.1 

558.3 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,883.8 

1,972.7 

1,937.1 

2,539.8 

2,296.3 

Number  of  farms 

58,000 

57,000 

Number 

57,000 

56,000 

56,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


46 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tem 


NEVADA 

Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
F  ue l  and  o i l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


Number  of  farms 


1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

260.6 

305.9 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

324.8 

299.4 

254.3 

254.5 

335.2 

307.5 

243.9 

243.6 

324.5 

296.9 

84.8 

101.6 

115.4 

88.2 

159.1 

142.0 

209.1 

208.7 

6.3 

6.3 

5.3 

5.7 

4.0 

4.6 

5.3 

4.9 

15.9 

13.8 

12.7 

11.7 

3.7 

4.1 

3.5 

2.1 

12.2 

9.7 

9.2 

9.6 

10.3 

7.5 

6.9 

6.9 

1.9 

2.2 

2.3 

2.7 

-9.6 

37.5 

-23.1 

-19.8 

201.8 

208.9 

233.3 

218.7 

105.4 

116.5 

137.9 

127.4 

38.1 

44.0 

56.3 

46.3 

29.6 

30.0 

30.7 

27.1 

5.0 

10.2 

21 .6 

14.8 

3.5 

3.8 

3.9 

4.4 

26.0 

28.1 

29.4 

29.3 

2.9 

3.6 

2.8 

2.9 

3.1 

3.5 

3.4 

3.7 

11.0 

11.0 

13.4 

12.9 

8.9 

10.0 

9.8 

9.9 

41.3 

44.4 

52.2 

51.8 

13.1 

12.5 

12.0 

11.8 

28.2 

31.9 

40.2 

40.0 

30.3 

26.7 

25.8 

23.5 

21.5 

18.3 

17.2 

15.5 

8.8 

8.4 

8.6 

8.0 

30.6 

31.8 

35.6 

33.5 

.8 

1.0 

1.3 

.9 

28.1 

26.0 

25.4 

26.1 

6.7 

6.9 

7.4 

7.3 

58.8 

97.0 

91 .4 

80.7 

250.3 

298.3 

317.9 

292.5 

194.9 

203.5 

227.9 

213.5 

134.5 

144.9 

166.4 

156.6 

103.6 

115.4 

136.8 

126.4 

24.6 

23.0 

22.6 

23.2 

6.3 

6.5 

7.0 

6.9 

60.4 

58.6 

61 .5 

56.9 

29.0 

25.7 

24.5 

22.5 

30.6 

31.8 

35.6 

33.5 

.8 

1.0 

1 .3 

.9 

55.4 

94.8 

90.0 

79.0 

254.3 

254.5 

335.2 

307.5 

169.3 

179.1 

203.6 

188.1 

103.6 

115.4 

136.8 

126.4 

29.0 

25.7 

24.5 

22.5 

28.6 

29.5 

33.1 

30.4 

1.7 

1.9 

2.2 

1.8 

6.3 

6.5 

7.0 

6.9 

85.0 

75.4 

131.5 

119.4 

254.3 

254.5 

335.2 

307.5 

193.9 

202.1 

226.3 

211.3 

169.3 

179.1 

203.6 

188.1 

24.6 

23.0 

22.6 

23.2 

60.4 

52.5 

108.9 

96.2 

2,600 

2,500 

Number 

2,500 

2,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


267.6 

289.2 

272.8 

71.1 

201.6 

11.2 

5.2 

11.5 
2.0 

9.5 

7.5 
1.9 

-33.1 

211.2 

122.5 
42.9 

25.6 
13.0 

4.3 
29.0 

3.2 

3.7 

11.5 

10.6 

50.6 

14.6 
36.0 
22.2 
14.5 

7.7 

31.3 

1.5 
26.2 

7.5 

56.4 
260.1 

205.8 

151.8 

121.5 

23.1 

7.2 

54.0 

21.3 

31.3 

1.5 

54.2 
289.2 

181.7 

121.5 

21.3 

29.3 

2.3 
7.2 

107.5 
289.2 

204.7 

181.7 
23.1 

84.5 


2,500 


continued-- 


47 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tem 


NEW  HAMPSHIRE 

Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
F  ue l  and  o i l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


Number  of  farms 


1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

174.8 

166.3 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

177.3 

173.9 

147.2 

146.6 

151.0 

150.3 

136.2 

137.8 

142.3 

142.5 

77.5 

72.4 

79.0 

79.1 

58.7 

65.4 

63.3 

63.3 

1.9 

2.3 

1.9 

1.5 

9.0 

6.5 

6.9 

6.4 

26.6 

28.0 

25.9 

23.5 

1.7 

1.6 

1.7 

1.7 

24.9 

26.4 

24.2 

21.8 

23.9 

25.5 

23.3 

20.9 

.9 

.9 

.9 

.9 

1.1 

-8.2 

.3 

.1 

125.2 

135.5 

142.5 

138.2 

62.2 

69.0 

73.5 

70.9 

20.4 

22.4 

23.3 

24.6 

16.5 

18.2 

18.9 

19.7 

.7 

.8 

.8 

.9 

3.1 

3.4 

3.5 

4.0 

11.5 

12.7 

15.0 

12.8 

3.2 

3.9 

5.5 

3.3 

1.4 

1.6 

1.6 

1.9 

3.6 

3.6 

4.4 

4.3 

3.4 

3.6 

3.4 

3.3 

30.3 

33.9 

35.2 

33.5 

13.9 

14.7 

14.9 

14.4 

16.5 

19.3 

20.3 

19.2 

6.3 

6.3 

6.0 

5.3 

3.3 

3.0 

2.7 

2.4 

3.1 

3.2 

3.3 

3.0 

17.7 

18.9 

21 .8 

21.4 

-1.0 

-1.1 

-.5 

-.3 

30.9 

32.5 

30.4 

29.3 

9.0 

9.9 

11.3 

11.6 

49.7 

30.9 

34.8 

35.7 

150.9 

140.8 

153.9 

153.0 

111.6 

121.6 

129.0 

125.8 

89.1 

97.9 

102.0 

99.7 

58.6 

66.0 

70.3 

68.0 

23.7 

24.3 

23.0 

22.5 

6.8 

7.6 

8.8 

9.1 

22.4 

23.7 

26.9 

26.1 

5.7 

5.9 

5.6 

5.0 

17.7 

18.9 

21.8 

21.4 

-1.0 

-1.1 

-.5 

-.3 

39.3 

19.2 

25.0 

27.2 

147.2 

146.6 

151.0 

150.3 

88.5 

98.1 

106.7 

103.9 

58.6 

66.0 

70.3 

68.0 

5.7 

5.9 

5.6 

5.0 

16.8 

18.0 

21 .0 

20.5 

.6 

.6 

1.1 

1.3 

6.8 

7.6 

8.8 

9.1 

58.6 

48.4 

44.3 

46.4 

147.2 

146.6 

151.0 

150.3 

112.3 

122.4 

129.7 

126.4 

88.5 

98.1 

106.7 

103.9 

23.7 

24.3 

23.0 

22.5 

34.9 

24.1 

21.3 

23.9 

,200 

3,100 

Number 

2,900 

2,900 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


183.7 
152.9 
144.0 

79.0 

65.0 

1.6 

7.3 
24.0 

1.4 
22.6 
21.6 

.9 

6.9 

138.8 
70.6 

25.1 

20.5 
.8 

3.8 

12.3 

3.2 

1.8 
3.9 

3.3 

33.2 

15.1 
18.0 

5.1 

2.2 
2.8 

21.8 

-.3 

29.6 

12.2 

44.9 

162.1 

125.3 

99.1 

67.4 

22.3 

9.4 

26.2 
4.8 

21.8 

-.3 

36.8 

152.9 

103.6 

67.4 
4.8 

20.8 
1.2 
9.4 

49.3 

152.9 

125.9 
103.6 

22.3 

27.0 


2,900 


continued-  - 


48 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92- -continued 


I  tem 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

NEW  JERSEY 

Gross  farm  income 

728.2 

765.9 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

759.2 

751.4 

769.8 

Gross  cash  income 

678.8 

708.2 

697.7 

692.6 

699.5 

Farm  marketings 

642.6 

659.6 

648.8 

658.2 

656.9 

Crops 

450.1 

462.3 

453.1 

465.2 

464.5 

Livestock  and  products 

192.5 

197.3 

195.7 

193.0 

192.4 

Government  payments 

10.8 

21.5 

15.7 

4.1 

10.7 

Farm-related  income 

25.4 

27.2 

33.2 

30.4 

31.9 

Noncash  income 

60.5 

58.8 

58.4 

57.4 

58.1 

Value  of  home  consumption 

2.3 

1.5 

1.7 

1.4 

1.5 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

58.2 

57.2 

56.7 

56.0 

56.6 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

53.8 

52.8 

52.6 

51.7 

52.1 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

4.4 

4.4 

4.1 

4.3 

4.5 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-11.1 

-1.1 

3.1 

1.4 

12.2 

Total  production  expenses 

498.5 

534.2 

565.6 

564.6 

557.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

258.4 

283.0 

296.0 

298.4 

286.2 

Farm  origin 

63.0 

65.2 

64.9 

69.2 

69.2 

Feed  purchased 

34.6 

32.5 

33.6 

33.9 

34.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

4.4 

6.6 

4.4 

4.8 

5.5 

Seed  purchased 

24.0 

26.1 

26.9 

30.5 

29.3 

Manufactured  inputs 

72.4 

80.6 

85.3 

91.3 

75.8 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

28.7 

33.7 

34.2 

38.8 

25.4 

Pesticides 

15.4 

18.0 

18.6 

21.2 

20.6 

Fuel  and  oi l 

18.6 

18.6 

22.7 

22.0 

20.3 

Electricity 

9.6 

10.3 

9.7 

9.4 

9.5 

Other 

123.0 

137.2 

145.8 

137.9 

141.2 

Repair  and  maintenance 

40.2 

43.1 

47.6 

48.2 

53.5 

Other  miscellaneous 

82.8 

94.1 

98.2 

89.7 

87.7 

Interest 

34.7 

34.2 

32.1 

28.4 

26.8 

Real  estate 

21.7 

21.3 

19.4 

16.7 

15.7 

Nonreal  estate 

13.0 

12.9 

12.7 

11.7 

11.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

89.6 

95.2 

108.9 

105.6 

107.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-3.2 

-2.6 

.9 

2.2 

1.9 

Capital  consumption 

88.4 

90.6 

89.4 

90.8 

93.0 

Property  taxes 

30.7 

33.7 

38.3 

39.2 

41.5 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

229.7 

231.7 

193.6 

186.9 

212.5 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

674.4 

713.1 

706.6 

699.7 

717.7 

Farm  production  expenses 

465.9 

503.3 

533.7 

533.1 

522.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

348.4 

379.3 

394.7 

399.6 

388.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

249.9 

276.5 

288.5 

291.1 

277.8 

Capital  consumption 

71.4 

72.7 

71.9 

73.3 

73.8 

Property  taxes 

27.1 

30.1 

34.3 

35.2 

37.2 

Factor  payments 

117.5 

124.0 

138.9 

133.5 

134.0 

Interest 

31.1 

31.4 

29.1 

25.7 

24.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

89.6 

95.2 

108.9 

105.6 

107.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-3.2 

-2.6 

.9 

2.2 

1.9 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

208.5 

209.8 

173.0 

166.6 

194.9 

Gross  cash  income 

678.8 

708.2 

697.7 

692.6 

699.5 

Cash  expenses 

394.3 

430.6 

462.1 

459.9 

448.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

249.9 

276.5 

288.5 

291.1 

277.8 

Interest 

31.1 

31.4 

29.1 

25.7 

24.3 

Cash  labor  expenses 

85.2 

90.9 

104.9 

101.3 

103.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

1.0 

1.8 

5.3 

6.6 

6.4 

Property  taxes 

27.1 

30.1 

34.3 

35.2 

37.2 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

284.5 

277.6 

235.7 

232.7 

250.6 

Gross  cash  income 

678.8 

708.2 

697.7 

692.6 

699.5 

Farm  business  expenses 

465.7 

503.3 

534.0 

533.2 

522.6 

Cash  expenses 

394.3 

430.6 

462.1 

459.9 

448.9 

Capital  consumption 

71.4 

72.7 

71 .9 

73.3 

73.8 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

213.1 

204.9 

163.7 

159.3 

176.8 

Number  of  farms 

8,300 

8,300 

Number 

8,100 

8,300 

8,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


49 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92- -continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

NEW  MEXICO 

Gross  farm  income 

1,465.4 

1,603.7 

Million  dollars 

1,618.2 

1,642.2 

1,674.3 

Gross  cash  income 

1,400.8 

1,566.6 

1,587.0 

1,551.1 

1,631.2 

Farm  marketings 

1,287.4 

1,458.9 

1,483.5 

1,452.3 

1,530.4 

Crops 

378.8 

484.7 

482.1 

474.4 

490.3 

Livestock  and  products 

908.6 

974.2 

1,001 .4 

977.9 

1,040.1 

Government  payments 

71.4 

64.7 

63.8 

58.4 

60.3 

Farm-related  income 

42.0 

43.0 

39.7 

40.4 

40.5 

Noncash  income 

44.6 

45.1 

47.6 

49.1 

47.2 

Value  of  home  consumption 

7.0 

8.2 

8.5 

7.9 

7.1 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

37.6 

36.9 

39.1 

41.2 

40.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

32.0 

30.5 

32.3 

33.4 

34.4 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

5.5 

6.4 

6.8 

7.8 

5.6 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

20.0 

-8.0 

-16.4 

42.0 

-4.1 

Total  production  expenses 

1,187.2 

1,220.7 

1,231.3 

1,215.0 

1,182.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

842.6 

868.9 

864.7 

863.3 

838.3 

Farm  origin 

565.7 

567.3 

551 .2 

550.8 

524.5 

Feed  purchased 

169.8 

165.2 

154.4 

145.5 

157.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

382.9 

388.0 

382.2 

388.7 

350.8 

Seed  purchased 

13.0 

14.2 

14.6 

16.5 

15.9 

Manufactured  inputs 

90.6 

97.2 

105.1 

103.7 

98.1 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

23.3 

26.5 

27.2 

26.3 

23.4 

Pesticides 

10.5 

11.7 

11.5 

12.3 

12.4 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

36.7 

36.6 

44.3 

42.9 

38.4 

Electricity 

20.1 

22.5 

22.1 

22.3 

23.9 

Other 

186.2 

204.3 

208.4 

208.8 

215.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

Other  miscellaneous 

57.0 

60.4 

57.5 

56.7 

69.2 

129.2 

144.0 

150.9 

152.2 

146.5 

Interest 

103.5 

102.5 

99.7 

91.8 

86.7 

Real  estate 

59.4 

56.7 

54.2 

48.9 

45.9 

Nonreal  estate 

44.1 

45.8 

45.6 

42.9 

40.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

95.9 

100.6 

112.3 

105.1 

99.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

38.8 

39.5 

43.6 

41.2 

43.5 

Capital  consumption 

92.2 

94.5 

95.2 

98.1 

98.6 

Property  taxes 

14.3 

14.7 

15.8 

15.4 

16.1 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

278.1 

383.0 

387.0 

427.3 

491.4 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

1,433.3 

1,573.2 

1,585.9 

1,608.9 

1,639.8 

Farm  production  expenses 

1,166.6 

1,202.3 

1,211.2 

1,194.8 

1,162.1 

Nonfactor  payments 

931.7 

961.7 

958.1 

959.1 

934.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

837.0 

864.8 

860.1 

858.9 

834.1 

Capital  consumption 

81.2 

82.9 

83.1 

85.4 

84.9 

Property  taxes 

13.5 

14.0 

15.0 

14.7 

15.4 

Factor  payments 

234.9 

240.6 

253.1 

235.7 

227.7 

Interest 

100.2 

100.5 

97.2 

89.4 

84.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

95.9 

100.6 

112.3 

105.1 

99.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

38.8 

39.5 

43.6 

41.2 

43.5 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

266.8 

370.9 

374.6 

414.1 

477.7 

Gross  cash  income 

1,400.8 

1,566.6 

1,587.0 

1,551.1 

1,631.2 

Cash  expenses 

1,081.9 

1,115.1 

1,123.3 

1,103.0 

1,074.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

837.0 

864.8 

860.1 

858.9 

834.1 

Interest 

100.2 

100.5 

97.2 

89.4 

84.6 

Cash  labor  expenses 

90.2 

93.8 

105.0 

96.2 

93.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

41.1 

41.9 

46.1 

43.7 

46.0 

Property  taxes 

13.5 

14.0 

15.0 

14.7 

15.4 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

318.9 

451.5 

463.7 

448.2 

557.1 

Gross  cash  income 

1,400.8 

1,566.6 

1,587.0 

1,551.1 

1,631.2 

Farm  business  expenses 

1,163.1 

1,197.9 

1,206.4 

1,188.4 

1,158.9 

Cash  expenses 

1,081.9 

1,115.1 

1,123.3 

1,103.0 

1,074.0 

Capital  consumption 

81.2 

82.9 

83.1 

85.4 

84.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

237.6 

368.7 

380.6 

362.7 

472.3 

Number  of  farms 

14,000 

14,000 

Number 

13,500 

13,500 

13,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


50 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

NEW  YORK 

Gross  farm  income 

2,811.2 

3,141.7 

Million  dollars 

3,232.6 

3,087.4 

3,174.1 

Gross  cash  income 

2,833.7 

3,008.9 

3,108.0 

2,987.5 

3,074.4 

Farm  marketings 

2,675.6 

2,855.9 

2,966.2 

2,873.7 

2,946.0 

Crops 

873.8 

919.3 

995.1 

1,081.1 

1,032.0 

Livestock  and  products 

1,801.7 

1,936.6 

1,971.1 

1,792.6 

1,914.1 

Government  payments 

86.8 

76.0 

59.3 

41.2 

47.9 

Farm-related  income 

71.4 

77.0 

82.5 

72.6 

80.5 

Noncash  income 

111.9 

105.3 

103.6 

104.0 

111.2 

Value  of  home  consumption 

11.7 

11.1 

12.0 

11.1 

11.2 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

100.1 

94.1 

91 .6 

92.9 

100.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

86.1 

80.2 

78.5 

79.4 

85.7 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

14.0 

14.0 

13.1 

13.5 

14.3 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-134.4 

27.5 

21 .0 

-4.1 

-11.6 

Total  production  expenses 

2,278.1 

2,459.1 

2,589.2 

2,544.0 

2,551.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,273.8 

1,432.5 

1,500.3 

1,466.8 

1,467.4 

Farm  origin 

472.8 

535.0 

550.0 

554.5 

568.8 

Feed  purchased 

385.8 

440.5 

449.8 

446.3 

457.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

15.6 

17.1 

20.4 

17.7 

24.6 

Seed  purchased 

71.4 

77.4 

79.7 

90.4 

86.9 

Manufactured  inputs 

313.3 

334.6 

356.9 

349.4 

344.8 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

105.9 

112.9 

118.0 

107.2 

111.4 

Pesticides 

53.9 

63.0 

65.1 

74.1 

71.9 

Fuel  and  oi l 

84.5 

84.5 

104.2 

101.1 

93.3 

Electricity 

69.0 

74.0 

69.6 

67.0 

68.2 

Other 

487.7 

562.9 

593.5 

562.9 

553.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

148.0 

155.1 

163.7 

163.0 

166.9 

Other  miscellaneous 

339.7 

407.8 

429.8 

399.9 

386.8 

Interest 

211.0 

202.9 

192.2 

172.4 

163.4 

Real  estate 

86.6 

88.3 

80.3 

69.5 

65.1 

Nonreal  estate 

124.4 

114.6 

111.9 

103.0 

98.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

270.8 

288.6 

333.3 

326.8 

332.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-15.8 

-13.7 

-3.8 

-1.5 

-2.2 

Capital  consumption 

392.6 

387.8 

383.1 

389.5 

393.0 

Property  taxes 

145.8 

161.1 

184.0 

189.9 

197.3 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

533.1 

682.5 

643.4 

543.4 

622.3 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

2,725.1 

3,061.5 

3,154.0 

3,008.0 

3,088.3 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,200.5 

2,374.8 

2,502.6 

2,459.1 

2,460.4 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,747.0 

1,918.4 

2,002.1 

1,980.3 

1,984.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,259.1 

1,421.9 

1,488.2 

1,454.6 

1,453.3 

Capital  consumption 

364.6 

359.7 

356.2 

361.8 

362.1 

Property  taxes 

123.3 

136.9 

157.7 

163.9 

168.6 

Factor  payments 

453.5 

456.4 

500.6 

478.8 

476.4 

Interest 

198.6 

181.5 

171.1 

153.4 

145.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

270.8 

288.6 

333.3 

326.8 

332.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-15.8 

-13.7 

-3.8 

-1.5 

-2.2 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

524.6 

686.7 

651.4 

548.9 

627.9 

Gross  cash  income 

2,833.7 

3,008.9 

3,108.0 

2,987.5 

3,074.4 

Cash  expenses 

1,841.3 

2,020.8 

2,153.0 

2,103.2 

2,103.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,259.1 

1,421.9 

1,488.2 

1,454.6 

1,453.3 

Interest 

198.6 

181.5 

171.1 

153.4 

145.6 

Cash  labor  expenses 

256.8 

274.9 

320.6 

313.4 

318.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

3.5 

5.7 

15.4 

18.0 

17.2 

Property  taxes 

123.3 

136.9 

157.7 

163.9 

168.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

992.4 

988.2 

955.0 

884.3 

971.2 

Gross  cash  income 

2,833.7 

3,008.9 

3,108.0 

2,987.5 

3,074.4 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,206.0 

2,380.4 

2,509.2 

2,465.1 

2,465.4 

Cash  expenses 

1,841.3 

2,020.8 

2,153.0 

2,103.2 

2,103.2 

Capital  consumption 

364.6 

359.7 

356.2 

361.8 

362.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

627.8 

628.5 

598.8 

522.5 

609.1 

Number  of  farms 

41,000 

39,000 

Number 

38,500 

38,000 

38,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


51 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

Gross  farm  income 

5,180.6 

5,503.6 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

5,811.2 

5,975.1 

6,088.2 

Gross  cash  income 

4,893.5 

5,311.4 

5,624.3 

5,603.0 

5,862.3 

Farm  marketings 

4,155.6 

4,621.3 

4,962.5 

4,955.8 

5,181.0 

Crops 

1,968.0 

2,111.1 

2,303.7 

2,338.6 

2,386.2 

Livestock  and  products 

2,187.6 

2,510.2 

2,658.8 

2,617.2 

2,794.8 

Government  payments 

146.0 

93.9 

73.3 

52.8 

74.8 

Farm-related  income 

591.9 

596.1 

588.6 

594.4 

606.5 

Noncash  income 

187.6 

181.2 

166.0 

148.4 

148.9 

Value  of  home  consumption 

21.2 

19.4 

20.5 

16.9 

16.0 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

166.4 

161.7 

145.5 

131.5 

132.9 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

151.0 

145.2 

128.9 

113.2 

117.8 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

15.4 

16.6 

16.6 

18.3 

15.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

99.5 

11.1 

20.9 

223.6 

77.0 

Total  production  expenses 

3,466.1 

3,523.8 

3,564.0 

3,513.8 

3,635.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,298.2 

2,335.2 

2,319.0 

2,308.1 

2,429.1 

Farm  origin 

1,153.1 

1,172.2 

1,142.3 

1,069.5 

1,226.7 

Feed  purchased 

880.3 

874.5 

807.8 

723.5 

873.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

190.0 

209.7 

245.8 

247.6 

259.2 

Seed  purchased 

82.8 

88.0 

88.7 

98.4 

94.5 

Manufactured  inputs 

479.2 

526.7 

550.7 

553.5 

550.3 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

200.0 

225.4 

218.8 

208.1 

208.8 

Pesticides 

96.0 

114.3 

120.5 

140.0 

141.6 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

130.9 

129.0 

155.1 

149.4 

147.2 

Electricity 

52.3 

57.9 

56.3 

56.1 

52.7 

Other 

666.0 

636.3 

626.0 

685.1 

652.0 

Repair  and  maintenance 

140.5 

140.0 

135.8 

135.4 

119.2 

Other  miscellaneous 

525.5 

496.3 

490.1 

549.8 

532.9 

Interest 

264.5 

258.9 

250.4 

228.3 

215.9 

Real  estate 

149.7 

146.4 

138.0 

123.2 

115.5 

Nonreal  estate 

114.8 

112.5 

112.4 

105.1 

100.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

289.6 

315.2 

368.5 

355.4 

363.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

125.4 

120.4 

146.7 

155.3 

151.2 

Capital  consumption 

409.3 

412.5 

392.0 

381.5 

384.7 

Property  taxes 

79.0 

81.5 

87.4 

85.3 

91.4 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

1,714.6 

1,979.8 

2,247.2 

2,461.2 

2,452.9 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

5,029.6 

5,358.4 

5,682.2 

5,861.8 

5,970.5 

Farm  production  expenses 

3,363.0 

3,423.9 

3,463.7 

3,417.7 

3,542.5 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,697.3 

2,742.8 

2,712.8 

2,692.5 

2,825.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,269.3 

2,311.5 

2,290.5 

2,277.1 

2,404.3 

Capital  consumption 

360.8 

362.1 

347.2 

341.0 

340.8 

Property  taxes 

67.2 

69.2 

75.1 

74.5 

79.8 

Factor  payments 

665.7 

681.1 

750.9 

725.1 

717.5 

Interest 

250.6 

245.5 

235.7 

214.5 

203.2 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

289.6 

315.2 

368.5 

355.4 

363.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

125.4 

120.4 

146.7 

155.3 

151.2 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

1,666.7 

1,934.5 

2,218.5 

2,444.1 

2,428.0 

Gross  cash  income 

4,893.5 

5,311.4 

5,624.3 

5,603.0 

5,862.3 

Cash  expenses 

3,006.0 

3,065.4 

3,119.4 

3,077.1 

3,204.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,269.3 

2,311.5 

2,290.5 

2,277.1 

2,404.3 

Interest 

250.6 

245.5 

235.7 

214.5 

203.2 

Cash  labor  expenses 

274.5 

299.4 

353.0 

337.9 

347.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

144.3 

139.8 

165.1 

173.1 

169.0 

Property  taxes 

67.2 

69.2 

75.1 

74.5 

79.8 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,887.5 

2,245.9 

2,505.0 

2,526.0 

2,658.1 

Gross  cash  income 

4,893.5 

5,311.4 

5,624.3 

5,603.0 

5,862.3 

Farm  business  expenses 

3,366.8 

3,427.5 

3,466.6 

3,418.0 

3,545.1 

Cash  expenses 

3,006.0 

3,065.4 

3,119.4 

3,077.1 

3,204.3 

Capital  consumption 

360.8 

362.1 

347.2 

341.0 

340.8 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,526.7 

1,883.9 

2,157.7 

2,185.0 

2,317.3 

Number  of  farms 

68,000 

65,000 

Number 

62,000 

60,000 

60,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


52 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92- -continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

NORTH  DAKOTA 

Gross  farm  income 

2,634.7 

3,109.7 

Mi  1 1 ion  dollars 

3,477.3 

3,342.2 

3,809.4 

Gross  cash  income 

3,132.0 

2,681.3 

3,150.0 

3,144.9 

3,598.6 

Farm  marketings 

2,354.4 

2,140.8 

2,531.3 

2,546.6 

3,093.6 

Crops 

1,503.6 

1,471.8 

1,729.9 

1,876.9 

2,338.8 

Livestock  and  products 

850.8 

669.0 

801.4 

669.7 

754.9 

Government  payments 

715.1 

474.8 

545.4 

533.9 

443.2 

Farm-related  income 

62.5 

65.7 

73.3 

64.5 

61.9 

Noncash  income 

70.5 

70.0 

70.6 

70.6 

70.9 

Value  of  home  consumption 

11.4 

9.5 

9.2 

10.8 

8.7 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

59.1 

60.5 

61.4 

59.9 

62.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

54.8 

56.4 

57.8 

56.3 

57.8 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

4.3 

4.1 

3.6 

3.6 

4.3 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-567.8 

358.3 

256.7 

126.6 

139.9 

Total  production  expenses 

2,445.8 

2,513.2 

2,648.9 

2,648.8 

2,718.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,129.6 

1,122.3 

1,221.1 

1,266.2 

1,313.3 

Farm  origin 

246.3 

249.4 

261.7 

222.7 

234.3 

Feed  purchased 

72.2 

64.7 

59.2 

51.6 

55.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

54.4 

62.3 

84.2 

45.5 

58.0 

Seed  purchased 

119.7 

122.4 

118.3 

125.6 

120.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

497.9 

498.5 

556.4 

617.8 

608.2 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

183.3 

161.8 

185.0 

233.1 

214.3 

Pesticides 

123.5 

146.2 

153.1 

176.7 

193.2 

Fuel  and  oi l 

157.3 

153.0 

181 .6 

171.4 

164.8 

Electricity 

33.8 

37.6 

36.6 

36.6 

35.8 

Other 

385.4 

374.4 

403.0 

425.7 

470.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

179.1 

193.8 

196.6 

192.5 

197.7 

Other  miscellaneous 

206.3 

180.6 

206.3 

233.2 

273.0 

Interest 

347.9 

329.1 

310.2 

285.6 

268.5 

Real  estate 

162.9 

150.3 

138.0 

120.7 

113.2 

Nonreal  estate 

185.0 

178.8 

172.2 

164.8 

155.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

83.5 

82.9 

88.4 

74.6 

78.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

336.9 

420.1 

460.3 

458.5 

491.0 

Capital  consumption 

429.7 

437.1 

439.4 

440.0 

439.6 

Property  taxes 

118.1 

121.6 

129.5 

123.9 

127.1 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

188.9 

596.5 

828.4 

693.4 

1,091.2 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

2,579.9 

3,053.3 

3,419.5 

3,285.9 

3,751.6 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,404.6 

2,468.2 

2,598.7 

2,597.7 

2,671.9 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,643.3 

1,645.9 

1,750.2 

1,788.4 

1,842.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,118.2 

1,111.7 

1,206.0 

1,248.0 

1,300.3 

Capital  consumption 

414.6 

420.5 

422.7 

423.7 

421.9 

Property  taxes 

110.6 

113.7 

121.4 

116.7 

120.1 

Factor  payments 

761.2 

822.3 

848.5 

809.3 

829.6 

Interest 

340.8 

319.3 

299.8 

276.1 

260.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

83.5 

82.9 

88.4 

74.6 

78.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

336.9 

420.1 

460.3 

458.5 

491.0 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

175.3 

585.1 

820.8 

688.2 

1,079.7 

Gross  cash  income 

3,132.0 

2,681.3 

3,150.0 

3,144.9 

3,598.6 

Cash  expenses 

2,024.4 

2,083.7 

2,212.6 

2,210.2 

2,285.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,118.2 

1,111.7 

1,206.0 

1,248.0 

1,300.3 

Interest 

340.8 

319.3 

299.8 

276.1 

260.0 

Cash  labor  expenses 

79.0 

78.6 

84.5 

70.6 

74.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

375.8 

460.4 

500.7 

498.7 

530.8 

Property  taxes 

110.6 

113.7 

121 .4 

116.7 

120.1 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,107.5 

597.6 

937.4 

934.8 

1,313.3 

Gross  cash  income 

3,132.0 

2,681.3 

3,150.0 

3,144.9 

3,598.6 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,439.0 

2,504.2 

2,635.3 

2,633.9 

2,707.3 

Cash  expenses 

2,024.4 

2,083.7 

2,212.6 

2,210.2 

2,285.4 

Capital  consumption 

414.6 

420.5 

422.7 

423.7 

421.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

692.9 

177.1 

514.7 

511.0 

891.4 

Number  of  farms 

33,500 

33,500 

Number 

34,000 

33,000 

33,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


53 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--cont inued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

OHIO 

Gross  farm  income 

4,469.0 

5,015.7 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

5,168.4 

4,653.5 

5,095.7 

Gross  cash  income 

4,427.1 

4,530.1 

4,872.3 

4,568.7 

4,597.6 

Farm  marketings 

3,811.7 

4,008.4 

4,425.2 

4,164.9 

4,167.3 

Crops 

2,216.7 

2,309.9 

2,578.3 

2,483.5 

2,587.3 

Livestock  and  products 

1,595.0 

1,698.5 

1,846.9 

1,681.3 

1,580.0 

Government  payments 

381.9 

274.0 

197.0 

156.7 

166.1 

Farm-related  income 

233.5 

247.7 

250.2 

247.2 

264.2 

Noncash  income 

247.0 

251.2 

238.6 

235.3 

251.2 

Value  of  home  consumption 

28.8 

28.6 

23.3 

22.2 

26.6 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

218.1 

222.6 

215.3 

213.1 

224.6 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

207.3 

211.6 

204.8 

202.1 

214.4 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

10.8 

11.0 

10.5 

11.1 

10.2 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-205.0 

234.4 

57.5 

-150.5 

246.8 

Total  production  expenses 

3,571.5 

3,723.2 

3,911.2 

3,849.2 

3,881.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,945.1 

2,050.5 

2,200.7 

2,193.5 

2,194.3 

Farm  origin 

691.3 

746.6 

794.0 

792.6 

813.5 

Feed  purchased 

474.3 

513.8 

555.2 

533.6 

566.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

50.0 

54.4 

58.1 

57.3 

53.9 

Seed  purchased 

167.1 

178.4 

180.7 

201.6 

193.7 

Manufactured  inputs 

623.5 

650.7 

722.9 

719.2 

709.0 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

299.9 

293.5 

331 .3 

301.6 

284.5 

Pesticides 

137.5 

169.3 

184.4 

221.2 

226.6 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

132.0 

130.3 

153.2 

144.8 

143.9 

Electricity 

54.0 

57.7 

54.0 

51.7 

54.0 

Other 

630.3 

653.2 

683.9 

681.7 

671.8 

Repair  and  maintenance 

277.7 

301.9 

313.2 

314.4 

293.6 

Other  miscellaneous 

352.6 

351.2 

370.7 

367.3 

378.2 

Interest 

338.2 

333.0 

325.0 

298.9 

280.8 

Real  estate 

201.4 

196.4 

188.9 

170.1 

159.5 

Nonreal  estate 

136.8 

136.6 

136.1 

128.8 

121.3 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

207.8 

220.2 

252.3 

240.4 

254.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

262.6 

268.7 

280.7 

269.6 

296.0 

Capital  consumption 

672.6 

697.5 

685.2 

682.7 

688.8 

Property  taxes 

145.2 

153.3 

167.3 

164.1 

167.0 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

897.5 

1,292.5 

1,257.2 

804.3 

1,213.9 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

4,261.7 

4,804.1 

4,963.6 

4,451.4 

4,881.3 

Farm  production  expenses 

3,440.5 

3,588.2 

3,773.9 

3,716.4 

3,741.5 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,648.7 

2,787.1 

2,938.2 

2,927.8 

2,928.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,913.7 

2,026.8 

2,174.6 

2,168.6 

2,169.5 

Capital  consumption 

613.1 

632.5 

623.2 

620.7 

618.5 

Property  taxes 

121.8 

127.8 

140.4 

138.5 

140.6 

Factor  payments 

791.9 

801.0 

835.7 

788.5 

812.9 

Interest 

321.5 

312.1 

302.7 

278.5 

262.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

207.8 

220.2 

252.3 

240.4 

254.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

262.6 

268.7 

280.7 

269.6 

296.0 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

821.2 

1,216.0 

1,189.7 

735.1 

1,139.8 

Gross  cash  income 

4,427.1 

4,530.1 

4,872.3 

4,568.7 

4,597.6 

Cash  expenses 

2,883.2 

3,014.8 

3,209.3 

3,152.6 

3,180.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,913.7 

2,026.8 

2,174.6 

2,168.6 

2,169.5 

Interest 

321.5 

312.1 

302.7 

278.5 

262.0 

Cash  labor  expenses 

196.8 

209.1 

241 .8 

229.0 

244.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

329.3 

339.0 

349.9 

338.1 

364.3 

Property  taxes 

121.8 

127.8 

140.4 

138.5 

140.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,543.9 

1,515.2 

1,663.0 

1,416.1 

1,416.8 

Gross  cash  income 

4,427.1 

4,530.1 

4,872.3 

4,568.7 

4,597.6 

Farm  business  expenses 

3,496.3 

3,647.4 

3,832.5 

3,773.4 

3,799.3 

Cash  expenses 

2,883.2 

3,014.8 

3,209.3 

3,152.6 

3,180.8 

Capital  consumption 

613.1 

632.5 

623.2 

620.7 

618.5 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

930.8 

882.7 

1,039.8 

795.4 

798.3 

Number  of  farms 

85,000 

86,000 

Number 

84,000 

80,000 

78,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


54 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tem 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

OKLAHOMA 

Gross  farm  income 

4,119.3 

4,315.9 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

4,444.4 

4,372.0 

4,350.3 

Gross  cash  income 

3,893.1 

3,979.1 

4,085.2 

4,378.7 

4,132.2 

Farm  marketings 

3,386.4 

3,514.8 

3,548.5 

3,856.4 

3,634.9 

Crops 

1,115.3 

1,137.3 

1,206.9 

1,068.1 

1,137.3 

Livestock  and  products 

2,271.2 

2,377.5 

2,341.6 

2,788.3 

2,497.7 

Government  payments 

288.4 

234.8 

319.0 

290.9 

248.3 

Farm-related  income 

218.3 

229.5 

217.7 

231.4 

248.9 

Noncash  income 

196.5 

190.5 

175.8 

176.6 

196.3 

Value  of  home  consumption 

26.5 

22.4 

21.4 

22.4 

20.2 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

170.0 

168.0 

154.5 

154.2 

176.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

162.2 

158.7 

144.3 

142.2 

167.9 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

7.8 

9.3 

10.1 

12.0 

8.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

29.7 

146.4 

183.4 

-183.3 

21.8 

Total  production  expenses 

3,300.6 

3,342.1 

3,388.1 

3,508.6 

3,267.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,177.3 

2,219.6 

2,258.6 

2,418.1 

2,203.4 

Farm  origin 

1,217.0 

1,264.2 

1,255.4 

1,324.8 

1,140.6 

Feed  purchased 

453.4 

474.6 

457.4 

418.6 

390.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

719.3 

742.0 

749.4 

851.7 

697.8 

Seed  purchased 

44.2 

47.6 

48.6 

54.6 

52.5 

Manufactured  inputs 

327.0 

363.9 

389.8 

400.8 

388.4 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

128.4 

150.1 

145.5 

148.9 

149.6 

Pest icides 

48.0 

56.5 

58.8 

67.4 

70.2 

Fuel  and  oi l 

119.1 

119.5 

146.0 

142.2 

132.6 

E lectrici ty 

31.6 

37.8 

39.6 

42.3 

36.0 

Other 

633.3 

591.5 

613.4 

692.4 

674.3 

Repair  and  maintenance 

192.8 

201.3 

187.0 

191.4 

198.6 

Other  miscellaneous 

440.5 

390.2 

426.4 

501.0 

475.7 

Interest 

395.8 

385.4 

370.4 

340.6 

322.6 

Real  estate 

189.2 

178.4 

168.1 

150.4 

141.1 

Nonreal  estate 

206.5 

207.0 

202.3 

190.2 

181.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

132.5 

144.5 

167.8 

163.3 

155.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

121.1 

103.5 

107.6 

102.1 

84.8 

Capital  consumption 

391.0 

406.0 

397.2 

402.7 

414.5 

Property  taxes 

83.0 

83.2 

86.5 

81.8 

87.0 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

818.7 

973.8 

1,056.3 

863.4 

1,082.9 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

3,957.0 

4,157.2 

4,300.0 

4,229.8 

4,182.4 

Farm  production  expenses 

3,201.8 

3,251.8 

3,301.0 

3,425.5 

3,176.6 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,566.5 

2,627.6 

2,665.9 

2,829.4 

2,622.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,152.2 

2,200.8 

2,239.4 

2,401.0 

2,185.1 

Capital  consumption 

341.4 

353.6 

349.7 

355.3 

360.7 

Property  taxes 

72.9 

73.1 

76.7 

73.0 

77.2 

Factor  payments 

635.3 

624.2 

635.1 

596.2 

553.7 

Interest 

381.7 

376.3 

359.7 

330.8 

313.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

132.5 

144.5 

167.8 

163.3 

155.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

121.1 

103.5 

107.6 

102.1 

84.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

755.2 

905.4 

999.1 

804.2 

1,005.8 

Gross  cash  income 

3,893.1 

3,979.1 

4,085.2 

4,378.7 

4,132.2 

Cash  expenses 

2,865.6 

2,902.4 

2,954.1 

3,070.5 

2,821.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,152.2 

2,200.8 

2,239.4 

2,401.0 

2,185.1 

Interest 

381.7 

376.3 

359.7 

330.8 

313.7 

Cash  labor  expenses 

124.4 

134.6 

156.9 

149.7 

146.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

134.4 

117.5 

121 .3 

115.9 

98.9 

Property  taxes 

72.9 

73.1 

76.7 

73.0 

77.2 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,027.6 

1,076.8 

1,131.1 

1,308.2 

1,310.5 

Gross  cash  income 

3,893.1 

3,979.1 

4,085.2 

4,378.7 

4,132.2 

Farm  business  expenses 

3,207.0 

3,255.9 

3,303.8 

3,425.8 

3,182.4 

Cash  expenses 

2,865.6 

2,902.4 

2,954.1 

3,070.5 

2,821.7 

Capital  consumption 

341.4 

353.6 

349.7 

355.3 

360.7 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

686.2 

723.2 

781 .4 

952.9 

949.8 

Number  of  farms 

70,000 

70,000 

Number 

70,000 

70,000 

71,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


55 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


OREGON 


Million  dollars 


Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
Fuel  and  oi l 
Electricity 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


2,634.8 

2,848.5 

2,969.5 

2,952.2 

3,018.5 

2,496.5 

2,663.5 

2,764.4 

2,886.0 

2,923.1 

2,174.9 

2,281.9 

2,371.4 

2,524.5 

2,489.8 

1,504.4 

1,544.1 

1,619.4 

1,699.0 

1,694.5 

670.5 

737.8 

752.0 

825.5 

795.3 

97.8 

60.4 

89.1 

89.1 

87.5 

223.8 

321.2 

303.8 

272.3 

345.8 

144.5 

146.2 

148.1 

145.7 

158.7 

22.7 

22.5 

23.5 

19.3 

16.3 

121.8 

123.7 

124.6 

126.3 

142.4 

110.6 

113.7 

116.4 

119.1 

127.9 

11.1 

9.9 

8.2 

7.3 

14.4 

-6.2 

38.8 

57.1 

-79.5 

-63.3 

1,904.2 

2,099.2 

2,251.2 

2,325.5 

2,322.6 

1,013.7 

1,159.5 

1,225.5 

1,276.3 

1,279.3 

282.0 

303.2 

308.7 

286.3 

274.4 

177.3 

180.4 

172.5 

164.2 

173.7 

54.3 

63.6 

70.8 

42.7 

24.4 

50.4 

59.1 

65.4 

79.4 

76.2 

281.2 

320.2 

348.5 

367.1 

384.8 

112.2 

128.4 

134.1 

135.9 

146.4 

67.5 

79.9 

83.6 

96.3 

106.8 

60.9 

63.6 

80.6 

81.3 

77.6 

40.5 

48.2 

50.2 

53.6 

54.0 

450.4 

536.2 

568.3 

622.9 

620.1 

177.8 

220.7 

217.1 

228.5 

233.7 

272.6 

315.4 

351.3 

394.5 

386.4 

226.4 

216.5 

196.9 

170.2 

160.5 

152.9 

143.5 

124.4 

102.2 

95.9 

73.6 

72.9 

72.5 

68.0 

64.6 

252.1 

281.4 

339.4 

364.5 

357.1 

53.2 

64.0 

99.7 

118.8 

113.0 

265.9 

277.4 

277.3 

282.4 

290.0 

93.0 

100.5 

112.4 

113.2 

122.8 

730.6 

749.2 

718.3 

626.7 

695.9 

2,524.2 

2,734.7 

2,853.1 

2,833.1 

2,890.6 

1,816.3 

2,010.3 

2,153.8 

2,224.7 

2,224.8 

1,300.6 

1,462.3 

1,531.6 

1,583.6 

1,605.8 

991.9 

1,139.6 

1,198.5 

1,244.1 

1,256.1 

231.9 

240.0 

239.8 

244.7 

247.5 

76.8 

82.7 

93.3 

94.8 

102.1 

515.6 

548.0 

622.2 

641.1 

619.0 

210.4 

202.6 

183.1 

157.7 

149.0 

252.1 

281.4 

339.4 

364.5 

357.1 

53.2 

64.0 

99.7 

118.8 

113.0 

707.9 

724.4 

699.3 

608.4 

665.8 

2,496.5 

2,663.5 

2,764.4 

2,886.0 

2,923.1 

1,590.5 

1,779.1 

1,924.8 

1,991.9 

1,981.4 

991.9 

1,139.6 

1,198.5 

1,244.1 

1,256.1 

210.4 

202.6 

183.1 

157.7 

149.0 

241.2 

272.0 

332.0 

358.1 

342.5 

70.3 

82.1 

117.8 

137.2 

131.6 

76.8 

82.7 

93.3 

94.8 

102.1 

906.0 

884.4 

839.6 

894.0 

941.7 

2,496.5 

2,663.5 

2,764.4 

2,886.0 

2,923.1 

1,822.4 

2,019.0 

2,164.6 

2,236.7 

2,228.9 

1,590.5 

1,779.1 

1,924.8 

1,991.9 

1,981.4 

231.9 

240.0 

239.8 

244.7 

247.5 

674.1 

644.5 

599.8 

649.3 

694.2 

Number 


Number  of  farms 


36,500 


37,000  36,500  37,000 


37,500 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


56 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Gross  farm  income 

3,567.8 

4,051.6 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

4,014.0 

3,689.2 

4,008.8 

Gross  cash  income 

3,466.9 

3,777.2 

3,828.6 

3,542.7 

3,772.1 

Farm  marketings 

3,292.1 

3,595.1 

3,680.2 

3,401.9 

3,618.5 

Crops 

955.0 

984.5 

1,027.2 

996.8 

1,064.2 

Livestock  and  products 

2,337.1 

2,610.7 

2,653.0 

2,405.1 

2,554.3 

Government  payments 

64.9 

68.4 

41 .4 

34.4 

48.8 

Farm-related  income 

109.8 

113.7 

107.0 

106.4 

104.9 

Noncash  income 

197.1 

200.5 

190.1 

186.0 

189.3 

Value  of  home  consumption 

27.3 

26.9 

27.4 

26.6 

24.3 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

169.8 

173.6 

162.7 

159.4 

165.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

155.0 

158.8 

149.0 

145.2 

150.0 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

14.8 

14.7 

13.8 

14.2 

15.1 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-96.2 

73.9 

-4.7 

-39.5 

47.4 

Total  production  expenses 

2,848.8 

3,151.0 

3,247.9 

3,212.6 

3,176.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,764.1 

2,022.2 

2,059.2 

2,034.3 

1,992.6 

Farm  origin 

818.6 

891.4 

896.6 

895.7 

905.7 

Feed  purchased 

624.5 

682.8 

681 .6 

670.4 

676.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

109.6 

116.8 

120.6 

118.2 

126.7 

Seed  purchased 

84.6 

91.8 

94.5 

107.1 

102.9 

Manufactured  inputs 

320.1 

389.7 

404.6 

419.2 

384.5 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

98.6 

153.3 

150.9 

162.9 

137.3 

Pesticides 

53.5 

62.6 

64.7 

73.5 

71.4 

Fuel  and  oi  l 

91.2 

91.3 

111.5 

108.2 

99.9 

E lectrici ty 

76.8 

82.4 

77.5 

74.6 

75.9 

Other 

625.3 

741.1 

758.1 

719.3 

702.4 

Repair  and  maintenance 

202.0 

220.1 

230.2 

229.3 

232.1 

Other  miscellaneous 

423.3 

521.1 

527.9 

490.1 

470.3 

Interest 

223.3 

217.1 

208.6 

185.7 

175.6 

Real  estate 

124.2 

118.7 

110.4 

95.4 

89.5 

Nonreal  estate 

99.1 

98.5 

98.2 

90.3 

86.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

288.6 

307.5 

354.1 

346.2 

352.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-47.9 

-42.4 

-26.0 

-17.1 

-15.4 

Capital  consumption 

502.5 

514.9 

500.3 

505.0 

511.1 

Property  taxes 

118.3 

131.6 

151 .6 

158.5 

160.0 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

719.0 

900.6 

766.1 

476.6 

832.0 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

3,412.8 

3,892.8 

3,865.0 

3,544.0 

3,858.8 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,739.7 

3,043.4 

3,139.6 

3,106.7 

3,060.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,293.7 

2,577.0 

2,619.7 

2,607.6 

2,561.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,739.2 

2,002.7 

2,037.7 

2,013.4 

1,968.1 

Capital  consumption 

454.0 

461.9 

451.3 

456.3 

456.1 

Property  taxes 

100.5 

112.4 

130.7 

137.9 

137.3 

Factor  payments 

446.0 

466.4 

519.9 

499.1 

498.5 

Interest 

205.3 

201.4 

191.7 

169.9 

161.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

288.6 

307.5 

354.1 

346.2 

352.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-47.9 

-42.4 

-26.0 

-17.1 

-15.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

673.1 

849.4 

725.5 

437.3 

798.8 

Gross  cash  income 

3,466.9 

3,777.2 

3,828.6 

3,542.7 

3,772.1 

Cash  expenses 

2,305.0 

2,602.3 

2,709.3 

2,670.6 

2,623.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,739.2 

2,002.7 

2,037.7 

2,013.4 

1,968.1 

Interest 

205.3 

201.4 

191.7 

169.9 

161.0 

Cash  labor  expenses 

273.9 

293.0 

340.8 

332.1 

337.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-14.0 

-7.2 

8.4 

17.4 

19.1 

Property  taxes 

100.5 

112.4 

130.7 

137.9 

137.3 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,161.9 

1,174.9 

1,119.3 

872.1 

1,148.9 

Gross  cash  income 

3,466.9 

3,777.2 

3,828.6 

3,542.7 

3,772.1 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,759.0 

3,064.1 

3,160.6 

3,127.0 

3,079.3 

Cash  expenses 

2,305.0 

2,602.3 

2,709.3 

2,670.6 

2,623.2 

Capital  consumption 

454.0 

461.9 

451.3 

456.3 

456.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

707.9 

713.1 

668.0 

415.7 

692.8 

Number  of  farms 

55,000 

54,000 

Number 

53,000 

53,000 

52,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


57 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

RHODE  ISLAND 

Gross  farm  income 

89.9 

86.4 

Mi 1 1 ion  dollars 

79.4 

76.7 

80.4 

Gross  cash  income 

84.0 

80.5 

73.7 

71.4 

74.7 

Farm  marketings 

79.1 

78.3 

71.3 

69.3 

72.2 

Crops 

65.7 

65.5 

57.6 

56.9 

59.5 

Livestock  and  products 

13.3 

12.9 

13.7 

12.4 

12.7 

Government  payments 

.1 

.1 

.2 

.1 

.3 

Farm-related  income 

4.8 

2.1 

2.2 

2.0 

2.2 

Noncash  income 

6.2 

6.2 

5.7 

5.2 

5.2 

Value  of  home  consumption 

.2 

.2 

.2 

.3 

.3 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

6.0 

6.0 

5.5 

4.8 

4.9 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

5.6 

5.5 

5.1 

4.4 

4.4 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

.5 

.5 

.5 

.5 

.5 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-.3 

-.3 

.0 

.2 

.5 

Total  production  expenses 

41.8 

44.8 

46.8 

44.4 

44.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

21.1 

23.0 

23.4 

21.7 

21.8 

Farm  origin 

5.8 

5.9 

6.3 

6.3 

6.4 

Feed  purchased 

3.8 

3.7 

4.0 

3.8 

4.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

.3 

.3 

.3 

.3 

.3 

Seed  purchased 

1.7 

1.9 

1 .9 

2.2 

2.1 

Manufactured  inputs 

4.9 

5.1 

5.6 

4.9 

5.2 

Ferti l i zer  and  l ime 

2.3 

2.4 

2.6 

1.8 

2.2 

Pesticides 

.7 

.8 

.8 

1.0 

.9 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

1.3 

1.3 

1 .6 

1.5 

1.4 

E lectrici ty 

.6 

.6 

.6 

.6 

.6 

Other 

10.4 

11.9 

11.5 

10.5 

10.2 

Repair  and  maintenance 

3.5 

3.7 

3.9 

3.6 

3.8 

Other  miscellaneous 

6.9 

8.2 

7.6 

6.9 

6.4 

Interest 

2.5 

2.6 

2.5 

2.3 

2.2 

Real  estate 

1.4 

1.4 

1.3 

1.1 

1.1 

Nonreal  estate 

1.1 

1.2 

1.2 

1.1 

1.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

9.2 

9.9 

11.4 

11.2 

11.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-.7 

-.7 

-.6 

-.5 

-.6 

Capital  consumption 

7.2 

7.3 

6.9 

6.4 

6.4 

Property  taxes 

2.5 

2.8 

3.2 

3.4 

3.4 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

48.1 

41.6 

32.6 

32.3 

35.8 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

84.4 

80.9 

74.3 

72.4 

76.0 

Farm  production  expenses 

38.6 

41.6 

43.7 

41.6 

41.6 

Nonfactor  payments 

27.8 

30.1 

30.6 

28.9 

28.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

20.2 

22.3 

22.7 

21.1 

21.1 

Capital  consumption 

5.4 

5.5 

5.2 

4.9 

4.8 

Property  taxes 

2.1 

2.4 

2.8 

2.9 

2.9 

Factor  payments 

10.8 

11.5 

13.0 

12.7 

12.8 

Interest 

2.3 

2.4 

2.3 

2.0 

1.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

9.2 

9.9 

11.4 

11.2 

11.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-.7 

-.7 

-.6 

-.5 

-.6 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

45.8 

39.3 

30.7 

30.8 

34.4 

Gross  cash  income 

84.0 

80.5 

73.7 

71.4 

74.7 

Cash  expenses 

32.9 

35.9 

38.2 

36.4 

36.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

20.2 

22.3 

22.7 

21.1 

21.1 

Interest 

2.3 

2.4 

2.3 

2.0 

1.9 

Cash  labor  expenses 

8.8 

9.4 

11.0 

10.7 

10.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-.5 

-.5 

-.4 

-.4 

-.4 

Property  taxes 

2.1 

2.4 

2.8 

2.9 

2.9 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

51.1 

44.6 

35.5 

35.0 

38.3 

Gross  cash  income 

84.0 

80.5 

73.7 

71.4 

74.7 

Farm  business  expenses 

38.3 

41.4 

43.4 

41.3 

41.2 

Cash  expenses 

32.9 

35.9 

38.2 

36.4 

36.4 

Capital  consumption 

5.4 

5.5 

5.2 

4.9 

4.8 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

45.7 

39.1 

30.3 

30.1 

33.5 

Number  of  farms 

770 

770 

Number 

740 

700 

700 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


58 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

SOUTH  CAROLINA 

Gross  farm  income 

1,306.5 

1,418.3 

Mi  1 1 ion  dollars 

1,310.5 

1,421.2 

1,361.8 

Gross  cash  income 

1,227.5 

1,356.9 

1,276.2 

1,324.3 

1,300.0 

Farm  marketings 

1,104.6 

1,236.1 

1,168.7 

1,226.1 

1,176.7 

Crops 

613.3 

680.3 

587.3 

677.4 

631.5 

Livestock  and  products 

491.3 

555.8 

581.4 

548.7 

545.2 

Government  payments 

76.9 

72.7 

62.6 

49.4 

72.6 

Farm-related  income 

46.0 

48.0 

44.9 

48.8 

50.7 

Noncash  income 

63.3 

63.6 

61.1 

56.6 

53.1 

Value  of  home  consumption 

7.7 

7.4 

8.2 

7.4 

6.5 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

55.6 

56.2 

52.9 

49.3 

46.6 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

51.5 

52.8 

50.2 

47.0 

43.6 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

4.0 

3.5 

2.7 

2.2 

3.0 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

15.7 

-2.1 

-26.8 

40.3 

8.6 

Total  production  expenses 

983.7 

1,049.2 

1,052.2 

1,059.1 

1,023.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

591.6 

647.5 

637.0 

654.7 

626.6 

Farm  origin 

211.2 

219.6 

212.5 

209.6 

218.7 

Feed  purchased 

157.0 

157.0 

144.0 

131.3 

142.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

27.7 

32.4 

35.8 

39.6 

39.3 

Seed  purchased 

26.5 

30.2 

32.6 

38.7 

37.2 

Manufactured  inputs 

179.7 

195.7 

207.8 

222.2 

207.0 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

88.1 

94.6 

95.4 

101.6 

97.5 

Pesticides 

38.3 

45.9 

48.8 

57.0 

52.4 

Fuel  and  oi l 

39.8 

40.6 

49.9 

50.2 

44.7 

Electricity 

13.5 

14.6 

13.8 

13.3 

12.4 

Other 

200.8 

232.2 

216.8 

223.0 

200.9 

Repair  and  maintenance 

70.6 

80.1 

81 .2 

85.3 

74.3 

Other  miscellaneous 

130.2 

152.1 

135.5 

137.6 

126.6 

Interest 

100.7 

94.9 

88.7 

80.8 

76.5 

Real  estate 

60.2 

55.8 

52.2 

46.7 

43.8 

Nonreal  estate 

40.5 

39.1 

36.5 

34.1 

32.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

91.4 

95.9 

108.2 

101.5 

95.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

32.0 

37.7 

49.5 

54.9 

55.1 

Capital  consumption 

149.2 

154.3 

149.0 

148.5 

149.5 

Property  taxes 

18.9 

18.9 

19.7 

18.7 

20.2 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

322.8 

369.1 

258.3 

362.1 

338.4 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

1,255.0 

1,365.6 

1,260.3 

1,374.2 

1,318.1 

Farm  production  expenses 

954.2 

1,017.0 

1,019.9 

1,028.4 

993.4 

Nonfactor  payments 

732.0 

793.6 

778.8 

796.2 

770.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

582.9 

640.6 

628.9 

646.4 

619.7 

Capital  consumption 

132.9 

136.7 

132.7 

133.3 

133.1 

Property  taxes 

16.2 

16.3 

17.2 

16.6 

18.0 

Factor  payments 

222.1 

223.4 

241.1 

232.3 

222.6 

Interest 

98.8 

89.9 

83.4 

75.8 

72.0 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

91.4 

95.9 

108.2 

101.5 

95.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

32.0 

37.7 

49.5 

54.9 

55.1 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

300.9 

348.5 

240.3 

345.8 

324.7 

Gross  cash  income 

1,227.5 

1,356.9 

1,276.2 

1,324.3 

1,300.0 

Cash  expenses 

822.0 

881.8 

889.2 

897.4 

862.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

582.9 

640.6 

628.9 

646.4 

619.7 

Interest 

98.8 

89.9 

83.4 

75.8 

72.0 

Cash  labor  expenses 

87.2 

92.2 

105.2 

98.8 

92.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

36.9 

42.9 

54.5 

59.9 

60.0 

Property  taxes 

16.2 

16.3 

17.2 

16.6 

18.0 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

405.6 

475.1 

387.0 

426.9 

437.9 

Gross  cash  income 

1,227.5 

1,356.9 

1,276.2 

1,324.3 

1,300.0 

Farm  business  expenses 

954.9 

1,018.5 

1,021.9 

1,030.6 

995.3 

Cash  expenses 

822.0 

881.8 

889.2 

897.4 

862.1 

Capital  consumption 

132.9 

136.7 

132.7 

133.3 

133.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

272.6 

338.4 

254.3 

293.7 

304.7 

Number  of  farms 

26,000 

25,500 

Number 

25,000 

24,500 

24,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


59 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

SOUTH  DAKOTA 

Gross  farm  income 

3,268.9 

3,607.9 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

4,044.6 

3,902.7 

3,952.8 

Gross  cash  income 

3,568.5 

3,407.3 

3,673.8 

3,680.0 

3,573.3 

Farm  marketings 

2,989.3 

2,982.2 

3,260.9 

3,313.6 

3,229.5 

Crops 

879.8 

950.9 

966.8 

1,188.5 

1,263.1 

Livestock  and  products 

2,109.5 

2,031.3 

2,294.1 

2,125.1 

1,966.4 

Government  payments 

496.0 

340.3 

332.9 

286.2 

271.9 

Farm-related  income 

83.1 

84.8 

80.1 

80.1 

71.9 

Noncash  income 

90.1 

98.6 

103.4 

104.1 

105.3 

Value  of  home  consumption 

14.8 

14.8 

15.2 

16.0 

14.2 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

75.3 

83.9 

88.2 

88.1 

91.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

70.9 

79.7 

84.5 

84.5 

86.7 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

4.4 

4.2 

3.7 

3.6 

4.4 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-389.7 

102.0 

267.4 

118.6 

274.2 

Total  production  expenses 

2,482.0 

2,545.9 

2,613.8 

2,579.1 

2,558.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1.418.7 

1,415.2 

1,462.2 

1,462.3 

1,439.5 

Farm  origin 

592.9 

564.7 

587.9 

556.3 

535.5 

Feed  purchased 

304.9 

285.6 

254.7 

225.8 

225.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

197.3 

186.3 

243.5 

235.3 

218.9 

Seed  purchased 

90.7 

92.8 

89.7 

95.1 

91.4 

Manufactured  inputs 

359.8 

382.9 

391.7 

402.2 

387.6 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

119.8 

130.0 

112.7 

118.9 

101.7 

Pesticides 

67.0 

79.3 

83.1 

95.9 

104.9 

Fuel  and  oi l 

128.9 

124.6 

148.2 

139.8 

134.4 

E  lectrici ty 

44.0 

48.9 

47.6 

47.6 

46.6 

Other 

466.1 

467.7 

482.7 

503.9 

516.4 

Repair  and  maintenance 

185.7 

203.2 

207.8 

210.4 

212.3 

Other  miscellaneous 

280.4 

264.5 

274.8 

293.5 

304.1 

Interest 

318.8 

299.4 

283.9 

260.5 

245.5 

Real  estate 

128.7 

117.1 

106.6 

93.2 

87.4 

Nonreal  estate 

190.1 

182.3 

177.3 

167.2 

158.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

86.1 

85.6 

91 .2 

77.1 

81.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

198.7 

267.0 

286.6 

290.8 

293.8 

Capital  consumption 

346.1 

362.0 

366.2 

370.1 

373.7 

Property  taxes 

113.7 

116.6 

123.7 

118.4 

124.7 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

786.9 

1,062.0 

1,430.7 

1,323.6 

1,394.5 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

3,198.0 

3,528.2 

3,960.1 

3,818.2 

3,866.1 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,430.9 

2,490.5 

2,550.1 

2,511.9 

2,495.9 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,834.0 

1,844.5 

1,894.9 

1,889.5 

1,880.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,404.2 

1,400.4 

1,440.6 

1,435.6 

1,419.8 

Capital  consumption 

325.3 

337.3 

340.5 

344.6 

345.1 

Property  taxes 

104.5 

106.8 

113.8 

109.4 

116.0 

Factor  payments 

596.9 

646.0 

655.3 

622.3 

615.0 

Interest 

312.1 

293.3 

277.4 

254.5 

240.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

86.1 

85.6 

91.2 

77.1 

81.0 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

198.7 

267.0 

286.6 

290.8 

293.8 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

767.1 

1,037.8 

1,410.0 

1,306.3 

1,370.2 

Gross  cash  income 

3,568.5 

3,407.3 

3,673.8 

3,680.0 

3,573.3 

Cash  expenses 

2,121.2 

2,170.3 

2,227.4 

2,185.1 

2,168.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,404.2 

1,400.4 

1,440.6 

1,435.6 

1,419.8 

Interest 

312.1 

293.3 

277.4 

254.5 

240.1 

Cash  labor  expenses 

81.5 

81.2 

87.3 

72.9 

76.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

218.9 

288.6 

308.4 

312.6 

315.7 

Property  taxes 

104.5 

106.8 

113.8 

109.4 

116.0 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,447.3 

1,237.0 

1,446.4 

1,494.9 

1,405.2 

Gross  cash  income 

3,568.5 

3,407.3 

3,673.8 

3,680.0 

3,573.3 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,446.5 

2,507.6 

2,567.9 

2,529.6 

2,513.2 

Cash  expenses 

2,121.2 

2,170.3 

2,227.4 

2,185.1 

2,168.1 

Capital  consumption 

325.3 

337.3 

340.5 

344.6 

345.1 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,121.9 

899.7 

1,105.9 

1,150.4 

1,060.1 

Number  of  farms 

35,000 

35,000 

Number 

35,000 

35,000 

35,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


60 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

TENNESSEE 

Gross  farm  income 

2,501.0 

2,489.4 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

2,454.9 

2,393.4 

2,606.0 

Gross  cash  income 

2,242.3 

2,266.2 

2,304.8 

2,157.1 

2,362.8 

Farm  marketings 

1,925.3 

1,945.7 

2,056.9 

1,936.4 

2,103.5 

Crops 

869.6 

863.2 

946.3 

892.7 

1,042.2 

Livestock  and  products 

1,055.7 

1,082.4 

1,110.6 

1,043.8 

1,061.2 

Government  payments 

140.4 

141.0 

91.0 

70.3 

115.9 

Farm-related  income 

176.6 

179.5 

156.9 

150.3 

143.4 

Noncash  income 

209.2 

206.0 

195.1 

177.4 

182.0 

Value  of  home  consumption 

24.2 

23.4 

23.3 

21.2 

21.2 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

185.0 

182.6 

171 .8 

156.2 

160.8 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

178.6 

175.8 

164.9 

148.7 

154.6 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

6.4 

6.8 

6.9 

7.6 

6.2 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

49.4 

17.2 

-45.0 

58.9 

61.3 

Total  production  expenses 

2,046.6 

1,992.2 

1,996.5 

1,970.5 

1,997.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,102.9 

1,023.5 

1,010.2 

1,025.3 

1,025.1 

Farm  origin 

413.1 

346.0 

321 .2 

311.0 

339.5 

Feed  purchased 

227.8 

217.7 

180.8 

153.0 

177.6 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

127.3 

66.6 

78.2 

89.0 

95.6 

Seed  purchased 

58.0 

61.7 

62.2 

69.0 

66.3 

Manufactured  inputs 

277.3 

281.2 

291 .2 

299.5 

296.1 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

139.8 

131.3 

126.1 

126.1 

124.3 

Pesticides 

51.9 

61.8 

65.2 

75.7 

76.6 

Fuel  and  oi l 

62.3 

62.2 

74.9 

72.8 

71.8 

Electricity 

23.3 

25.8 

25.1 

25.0 

23.5 

Other 

412.5 

396.3 

397.8 

414.9 

389.5 

Repair  and  maintenance 

168.8 

175.2 

173.6 

175.4 

147.4 

Other  miscellaneous 

243.7 

221.0 

224.2 

239.5 

242.0 

Interest 

203.9 

200.3 

191.1 

173.7 

165.8 

Real  estate 

110.6 

107.4 

102.4 

91.4 

85.7 

Nonreal  estate 

93.3 

92.9 

88.7 

82.3 

80.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

120.7 

131.5 

153.8 

148.4 

151.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

96.3 

91.7 

103.8 

95.6 

115.3 

Capital  consumption 

461.6 

482.2 

470.2 

462.1 

469.3 

Property  taxes 

61.3 

63.1 

67.4 

65.4 

70.5 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

454.4 

497.2 

458.3 

422.9 

608.3 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

2,322.3 

2,313.7 

2,289.9 

2,244.7 

2,451.4 

Farm  production  expenses 

1,931.5 

1,886.4 

1,887.2 

1,864.8 

1,896.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,527.8 

1,472.7 

1,449.1 

1,457.0 

1,472.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,070.8 

996.7 

976.6 

988.5 

995.9 

Capital  consumption 

407.2 

424.7 

416.9 

413.6 

417.0 

Property  taxes 

49.8 

51.3 

55.6 

55.0 

59.4 

Factor  payments 

403.7 

413.7 

438.1 

407.8 

423.7 

Interest 

186.8 

190.5 

180.5 

163.8 

156.7 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

120.7 

131.5 

153.8 

148.4 

151.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

96.3 

91.7 

103.8 

95.6 

115.3 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

390.8 

427.3 

402.7 

379.9 

555.4 

Gross  cash  income 

2,242.3 

2,266.2 

2,304.8 

2,157.1 

2,362.8 

Cash  expenses 

1,533.4 

1,471.4 

1,479.7 

1,459.5 

1,488.3 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,070.8 

996.7 

976.6 

988.5 

995.9 

Interest 

186.8 

190.5 

180.5 

163.8 

156.7 

Cash  labor  expenses 

114.4 

125.0 

147.4 

141.1 

145.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

111.5 

107.9 

119.6 

111.1 

130.8 

Property  taxes 

49.8 

51.3 

55.6 

55.0 

59.4 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

709.0 

794.8 

825.1 

697.6 

874.5 

Gross  cash  income 

2,242.3 

2,266.2 

2,304.8 

2,157.1 

2,362.8 

Farm  business  expenses 

1,940.6 

1,896.1 

1,896.6 

1,873.1 

1,905.3 

Cash  expenses 

1,533.4 

1,471.4 

1,479.7 

1,459.5 

1,488.3 

Capital  consumption 

407.2 

424.7 

416.9 

413.6 

417.0 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

301.7 

370.1 

408.2 

284.0 

457.5 

Number  of  farms 

91,000 

91,000 

Number 

89,000 

87,000 

88,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


61 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

TEXAS 

Gross  farm  income 

12,670.6 

12,711.3 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

14,214.5 

14,184.4 

14,236.1 

Gross  cash  income 

12,141.0 

12,798.9 

13,401.5 

13,631.9 

13,398.0 

Farm  marketings 

10,349.3 

10,919.9 

11,826.7 

12,217.0 

11,619.8 

Crops 

3,720.8 

4,059.1 

4,075.8 

4,336.1 

4,096.8 

Livestock  and  products 

6,628.6 

6,860.9 

7,750.9 

7,880.9 

7,523.1 

Government  payments 

1,155.3 

1,248.7 

974.7 

777.9 

1,162.0 

Farm-related  income 

636.4 

630.2 

600.1 

637.0 

616.1 

Noncash  income 

591.6 

550.0 

501.1 

483.5 

510.4 

Value  of  home  consumption 

45.7 

45.3 

37.9 

35.5 

30.4 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

545.9 

504.7 

463.3 

447.9 

480.0 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

506.8 

458.0 

412.2 

387.5 

439.0 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

39.1 

46.7 

51 .0 

60.4 

41.0 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-62.1 

-637.6 

311.9 

69.1 

327.7 

Total  production  expenses 

10,596.1 

10,511.8 

11,168.3 

11,214.4 

10,772.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

6,505.7 

6,453.1 

7,092.7 

7,327.0 

6,937.6 

Farm  origin 

3,217.1 

3,232.2 

3,649.9 

3,576.7 

3,317.5 

Feed  purchased 

1,640.7 

1,702.2 

1,736.8 

1,681.4 

1,541.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

1,380.9 

1,319.6 

1,698.3 

1,653.6 

1,544.5 

Seed  purchased 

195.5 

210.4 

214.8 

241.6 

232.1 

Manufactured  inputs 

1,209.8 

1,298.6 

1,384.1 

1,471.6 

1,401.4 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

450.4 

470.0 

454.3 

501.6 

480.9 

Pesticides 

217.2 

255.6 

266.1 

305.0 

317.9 

Fuel  and  oi l 

388.7 

389.3 

471 .5 

459.4 

427.6 

Electricity 

153.6 

183.7 

192.1 

205.6 

175.0 

Other 

2,078.7 

1,922.3 

2,058.7 

2,278.8 

2,218.6 

Repair  and  maintenance 

548.0 

557.7 

524.3 

527.7 

547.5 

Other  miscellaneous 

1,530.7 

1,364.6 

1,534.4 

1,751.1 

1,671.2 

Interest 

1,067.2 

1,038.6 

983.0 

898.7 

847.9 

Real  estate 

500.4 

452.2 

429.1 

383.9 

360.0 

Nonreal  estate 

566.8 

586.3 

553.9 

514.8 

487.9 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

675.2 

737.3 

856.1 

832.6 

798.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

791.0 

711.1 

680.7 

617.1 

618.4 

Capital  consumption 

1,246.6 

1,261.5 

1,235.3 

1,240.5 

1,251.3 

Property  taxes 

310.5 

310.3 

320.5 

298.4 

318.9 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

2,074.5 

2,199.5 

3,046.3 

2,970.0 

3,464.0 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

12,163.8 

12,253.3 

13,802.3 

13,796.9 

13,797.1 

Farm  production  expenses 

10,299.4 

10,245.7 

10,912.4 

10,976.4 

10,516.9 

Nonfactor  payments 

7,793.5 

7,781.6 

8,419.6 

8,652.7 

8,275.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

6,425.2 

6,396.9 

7,035.1 

7,277.6 

6,885.9 

Capital  consumption 

1,090.2 

1,106.7 

1,095.3 

1,105.0 

1,101.9 

Property  taxes 

278.1 

278.0 

289.1 

270.1 

287.3 

Factor  payments 

2,505.9 

2,464.1 

2,492.9 

2,323.7 

2,241.9 

Interest 

1,039.8 

1,015.8 

956.1 

873.9 

825.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

675.2 

737.3 

856.1 

832.6 

798.1 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

791.0 

711.1 

680.7 

617.1 

618.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

1,864.4 

2,007.6 

2,889.8 

2,820.5 

3,280.2 

Gross  cash  income 

12,141.0 

12,798.9 

13,401.5 

13,631.9 

13,398.0 

Cash  expenses 

9,220.8 

9,143.6 

9,815.2 

9,856.0 

9,426.2 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

6,425.2 

6,396.9 

7,035.1 

7,277.6 

6,885.9 

Interest 

1,039.8 

1,015.8 

956.1 

873.9 

825.4 

Cash  labor  expenses 

634.5 

687.7 

801 .2 

764.4 

756.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

843.3 

765.3 

733.7 

670.0 

671.1 

Property  taxes 

278.1 

278.0 

289.1 

270.1 

287.3 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

2,920.2 

3,655.3 

3,586.3 

3,775.8 

3,971.8 

Gross  cash  income 

12,141.0 

12,798.9 

13,401.5 

13,631.9 

13,398.0 

Farm  business  expenses 

10,311.0 

10,250.4 

10,910.5 

10,961.1 

10,528.0 

Cash  expenses 

9,220.8 

9,143.6 

9,815.2 

9,856.0 

9,426.2 

Capital  consumption 

1,090.2 

1,106.7 

1,095.3 

1,105.0 

1,101.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,830.0 

2,548.5 

2,491.0 

2,670.8 

2,870.0 

Number  of  farms 

187,000 

186,000 

Number 

186,000 

185,000 

183,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


62 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

UTAH 

Million  dollars 

Gross  farm  income 

826.5 

834.2 

886.8 

829.6 

893.1 

Gross  cash  income 

784.8 

811.2 

806.5 

778.2 

801.0 

Farm  marketings 

726.5 

754.2 

745.2 

720.9 

738.3 

Crops 

179.2 

188.2 

175.8 

171.3 

182.0 

Livestock  and  products 

547.3 

566.0 

569.4 

549.6 

556.4 

Government  payments 

38.4 

34.5 

34.9 

33.2 

36.0 

Farm-related  income 

19.9 

22.5 

26.4 

24.1 

26.7 

Noncash  income 

51.9 

49.7 

49.6 

49.2 

51.5 

Value  of  home  consumption 

5.8 

6.9 

9.2 

8.8 

8.8 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

46.0 

42.8 

40.5 

40.4 

42.7 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

43.1 

39.4 

36.9 

36.3 

39.7 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

2.9 

3.3 

3.6 

4.1 

3.0 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-10.2 

-26.7 

30.7 

2.2 

40.6 

Total  production  expenses 

617.2 

621.9 

639.0 

605.9 

611.7 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

369.7 

374.8 

384.8 

361.0 

368.9 

Farm  origin 

171.9 

164.9 

163.7 

147.4 

150.1 

Feed  purchased 

105.1 

99.9 

94.7 

80.1 

81.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

57.2 

54.7 

58.3 

55.2 

57.1 

Seed  purchased 

9.6 

10.4 

10.7 

12.1 

11.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

62.1 

64.5 

71.1 

66.1 

64.4 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

14.2 

14.1 

15.7 

10.9 

11.1 

Pesticides 

7.1 

7.9 

7.7 

8.3 

8.3 

Fuel  and  oi l 

26.0 

26.0 

31 .5 

30.5 

27.4 

E lectrici ty 

14.8 

16.6 

16.3 

16.4 

17.6 

Other 

135.7 

145.4 

149.9 

147.5 

154.3 

Repair  and  maintenance 

57.0 

58.9 

55.7 

54.9 

63.6 

Other  miscellaneous 

78.8 

86.5 

94.2 

92.6 

90.8 

Interest 

72.2 

70.6 

68.8 

63.5 

60.1 

Real  estate 

40.0 

38.5 

36.1 

32.7 

30.6 

Nonreal  estate 

32.2 

32.1 

32.7 

30.8 

29.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

48.7 

51.0 

56.9 

53.3 

50.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

5.6 

4.2 

6.9 

5.6 

8.4 

Capital  consumption 

101.5 

101.5 

100.2 

101.7 

102.2 

Property  taxes 

19.3 

19.9 

21.4 

20.9 

21.8 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

209.3 

212.4 

247.8 

223.6 

281.4 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

783.4 

794.8 

849.8 

793.2 

853.3 

Farm  production  expenses 

591.6 

599.4 

617.0 

584.9 

589.8 

Nonfactor  payments 

468.3 

476.0 

487.1 

465.0 

473.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

362.9 

370.0 

380.0 

356.7 

364.7 

Capital  consumption 

88.3 

88.2 

87.9 

89.4 

88.9 

Property  taxes 

17.2 

17.7 

19.2 

18.9 

19.7 

Factor  payments 

123.3 

123.4 

130.0 

119.9 

116.5 

Interest 

68.9 

68.3 

66.2 

60.9 

57.8 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

48.7 

51.0 

56.9 

53.3 

50.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

5.6 

4.2 

6.9 

5.6 

8.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

191.8 

195.3 

232.8 

208.4 

263.5 

Gross  cash  income 

784.8 

811.2 

806.5 

778.2 

801.0 

Cash  expenses 

503.9 

511.2 

528.9 

494.4 

501.5 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

362.9 

370.0 

380.0 

356.7 

364.7 

Interest 

68.9 

68.3 

66.2 

60.9 

57.8 

Cash  labor  expenses 

45.7 

47.4 

53.1 

48.7 

47.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

9.2 

7.8 

10.5 

9.2 

12.0 

Property  taxes 

17.2 

17.7 

19.2 

18.9 

19.7 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

280.9 

300.0 

277.6 

283.7 

299.5 

Gross  cash  income 

784.8 

811.2 

806.5 

778.2 

801.0 

Farm  business  expenses 

592.1 

599.5 

616.8 

583.8 

590.4 

Cash  expenses 

503.9 

511.2 

528.9 

494.4 

501.5 

Capital  consumption 

88.3 

88.2 

87.9 

89.4 

88.9 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

192.7 

211.8 

189.7 

194.3 

210.6 

Number 

Number  of  farms 

13,300 

13,000 

13,200 

13,300 

13,200 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


63 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

VERMONT 

Gross  farm  income 

454.5 

482.6 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

496.1 

472.1 

528.8 

Gross  cash  income 

429.4 

454.7 

482.2 

455.1 

476.9 

Farm  marketings 

401.1 

429.4 

457.2 

434.0 

451.9 

Crops 

50.4 

50.3 

60.6 

64.4 

63.4 

Livestock  and  products 

350.6 

379.1 

396.5 

369.6 

388.5 

Government  payments 

5.9 

7.1 

5.8 

3.3 

5.6 

Farm-related  income 

22.4 

18.2 

19.3 

17.7 

19.5 

Noncash  income 

28.1 

28.2 

27.6 

23.9 

24.4 

Value  of  home  consumption 

4.6 

3.9 

5.0 

3.1 

2.4 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

23.5 

24.3 

22.6 

20.8 

22.0 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

21.9 

22.7 

21.1 

19.2 

20.4 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

1.6 

1.6 

1.5 

1.5 

1.6 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-3.0 

-.3 

-13.7 

-6.8 

27.5 

Total  production  expenses 

349.4 

382.1 

406.2 

397.0 

396.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

208.2 

234.4 

252.3 

246.5 

245.8 

Farm  origin 

96.8 

108.3 

114.8 

115.8 

117.8 

Feed  purchased 

85.6 

96.7 

102.6 

102.8 

105.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

7.5 

7.5 

8.1 

8.4 

7.6 

Seed  purchased 

3.7 

4.0 

4.1 

4.7 

4.5 

Manufactured  inputs 

34.9 

35.9 

40.9 

39.3 

36.8 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

10.6 

10.4 

13.8 

12.5 

10.9 

Pesticides 

2.5 

2.9 

3.0 

3.4 

3.3 

Fuel  and  oi l 

10.3 

10.3 

12.6 

12.2 

11.3 

Electricity 

11.4 

12.3 

11.5 

11.1 

11.3 

Other 

76.5 

90.2 

96.6 

91.4 

91.1 

Repair  and  maintenance 

26.4 

28.9 

30.5 

29.5 

30.3 

Other  miscellaneous 

50.1 

61.4 

66.1 

61.9 

60.9 

Interest 

29.7 

30.0 

28.6 

25.4 

24.1 

Real  estate 

16.4 

16.1 

14.8 

12.8 

12.0 

Nonreal  estate 

13.2 

13.8 

13.8 

12.7 

12.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

30.6 

32.7 

37.8 

37.2 

37.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-2.8 

-2.7 

-1.9 

-1.7 

-1.7 

Capital  consumption 

64.1 

65.9 

64.2 

63.2 

63.4 

Property  taxes 

19.6 

21.9 

25.2 

26.4 

26.6 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

105.1 

100.5 

89.9 

75.1 

132.8 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

432.6 

459.9 

475.0 

452.9 

508.4 

Farm  production  expenses 

333.6 

365.9 

390.0 

381.8 

379.7 

Nonfactor  payments 

278.6 

308.6 

328.2 

323.3 

321.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

204.8 

231.6 

249.3 

243.8 

242.7 

Capital  consumption 

57.3 

58.4 

57.3 

56.7 

56.5 

Property  taxes 

16.5 

18.5 

21 .6 

22.8 

22.6 

Factor  payments 

55.0 

57.3 

61 .8 

58.5 

58.0 

Interest 

27.2 

27.3 

25.9 

23.0 

21.8 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

30.6 

32.7 

37.8 

37.2 

37.9 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-2.8 

-2.7 

-1.9 

-1.7 

-1.7 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

99.0 

94.1 

85.0 

71.1 

128.7 

Gross  cash  income 

429.4 

454.7 

482.2 

455.1 

476.9 

Cash  expenses 

277.0 

308.3 

333.6 

325.9 

323.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

204.8 

231.6 

249.3 

243.8 

242.7 

Interest 

27.2 

27.3 

25.9 

23.0 

21.8 

Cash  labor  expenses 

29.0 

31.1 

36.4 

35.7 

36.2 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

-.5 

-.3 

.5 

.6 

.6 

Property  taxes 

16.5 

18.5 

21.6 

22.8 

22.6 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

152.3 

146.4 

148.6 

129.2 

153.0 

Gross  cash  income 

429.4 

454.7 

482.2 

455.1 

476.9 

Farm  business  expenses 

334.3 

366.7 

391 .0 

382.6 

380.4 

Cash  expenses 

277.0 

308.3 

333.6 

325.9 

323.9 

Capital  consumption 

57.3 

58.4 

57.3 

56.7 

56.5 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

95.1 

88.0 

91.3 

72.5 

96.5 

Number  of  farms 

7,100 

7,000 

Number 

7,000 

6,900 

6,900 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued 


64 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

VIRGINIA 

Gross  farm  income 

2,295.1 

2,486.9 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

2,510.2 

2,449.1 

2,494.9 

Gross  cash  income 

2,119.9 

2,258.5 

2,343.5 

2,306.3 

2,316.4 

Farm  marketings 

1,902.5 

2,061.5 

2,151.3 

2,115.7 

2,134.4 

Crops 

633.4 

716.7 

768.5 

752.7 

781.4 

Livestock  and  products 

1,269.1 

1,344.8 

1,382.8 

1,363.0 

1,352.9 

Government  payments 

64.3 

38.6 

32.4 

26.6 

29.1 

Farm-related  income 

153.1 

158.4 

159.8 

164.0 

152.9 

Noncash  income 

153.2 

171.6 

161.2 

137.4 

134.9 

Value  of  home  consumption 

16.8 

19.5 

19.0 

15.6 

15.5 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

136.5 

152.1 

142.2 

121.8 

119.4 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

128.6 

143.6 

133.8 

112.5 

111.7 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

7.9 

8.4 

8.4 

9.3 

7.7 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

22.0 

56.8 

5.5 

5.4 

43.6 

Total  production  expenses 

1,794.6 

1,829.6 

1,855.0 

1,832.2 

1,867.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,031.8 

1,025.2 

1,030.1 

1,047.3 

1,081.9 

Farm  origin 

433.0 

422.6 

407.2 

384.8 

429.3 

Feed  purchased 

324.0 

309.1 

286.0 

250.6 

290.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

67.4 

69.3 

76.5 

84.7 

91.0 

Seed  purchased 

41.6 

44.2 

44.6 

49.5 

47.5 

Manufactured  inputs 

237.7 

253.7 

272.3 

290.9 

297.2 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

109.1 

114.4 

119.0 

131.0 

138.9 

Pesticides 

46.0 

54.8 

57.8 

67.1 

67.9 

Fuel  and  oi l 

58.4 

57.8 

69.6 

67.0 

66.2 

Electricity 

24.1 

26.7 

25.9 

25.9 

24.3 

Other 

361.1 

349.0 

350.6 

371.6 

355.4 

Repair  and  maintenance 

109.5 

117.4 

118.9 

115.6 

105.0 

Other  miscellaneous 

251.5 

231.6 

231 .8 

256.1 

250.4 

Interest 

182.1 

186.1 

180.3 

164.3 

155.3 

Real  estate 

108.4 

112.1 

106.2 

94.8 

88.9 

Nonreal  estate 

73.7 

74.0 

74.1 

69.6 

66.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

145.0 

157.3 

183.8 

177.2 

180.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

42.3 

42.2 

50.4 

51.9 

53.3 

Capital  consumption 

339.7 

363.2 

350.9 

333.4 

334.6 

Property  taxes 

53.8 

55.5 

59.5 

58.1 

62.2 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

500.5 

657.3 

655.2 

616.8 

627.1 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

2,166.5 

2,343.2 

2,376.4 

2,336.6 

2,383.2 

Farm  production  expenses 

1,707.5 

1,739.5 

1,763.2 

1,747.6 

1,785.3 

Nonfactor  payments 

1,354.5 

1,366.8 

1,361 .4 

1,366.0 

1,407.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,008.1 

1,002.9 

1,002.2 

1,018.6 

1,058.6 

Capital  consumption 

300.3 

316.3 

307.6 

296.3 

293.7 

Property  taxes 

46.1 

47.6 

51.5 

51.1 

54.8 

Factor  payments 

353.0 

372.6 

401.8 

381.6 

378.2 

Interest 

165.7 

173.0 

167.5 

152.5 

144.4 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

145.0 

157.3 

183.8 

177.2 

180.5 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

42.3 

42.2 

50.4 

51.9 

53.3 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

459.0 

603.8 

613.3 

589.0 

597.9 

Gross  cash  income 

2,119.9 

2,258.5 

2,343.5 

2,306.3 

2,316.4 

Cash  expenses 

1,413.3 

1,430.1 

1,462.1 

1,456.1 

1,497.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,008.1 

1,002.9 

1,002.2 

1,018.6 

1,058.6 

Interest 

165.7 

173.0 

167.5 

152.5 

144.4 

Cash  labor  expenses 

137.3 

149.3 

175.9 

168.3 

172.8 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

56.1 

57.2 

64.9 

65.6 

66.9 

Property  taxes 

46.1 

47.6 

51 .5 

51.1 

54.8 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

706.6 

828.5 

881 .4 

850.2 

818.9 

Gross  cash  income 

2,119.9 

2,258.5 

2,343.5 

2,306.3 

2,316.4 

Farm  business  expenses 

1,713.6 

1,746.4 

1,769.8 

1,752.4 

1,791.2 

Cash  expenses 

1,413.3 

1,430.1 

1,462.1 

1,456.1 

1,497.4 

Capital  consumption 

300.3 

316.3 

307.6 

296.3 

293.7 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

406.2 

512.1 

573.8 

553.9 

525.2 

Number  of  farms 

48,000 

47,000 

Number 

46,000 

45,000 

44,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


65 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

WASHINGTON 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

Gross  farm  income 

3,817.8 

4,270.3 

4,531.8 

4,690.7 

5,006.5 

Gross  cash  income 

3,720.9 

4,087.4 

4,315.9 

4,677.1 

4,966.5 

Farm  marketings 

3,230.7 

3,608.7 

3,752.1 

4,143.2 

4,454.2 

Crops 

2,092.1 

2,376.1 

2,356.0 

2,844.3 

2,922.2 

Livestock  and  products 

1,138.6 

1,232.6 

1,396.1 

1,298.9 

1,532.1 

Government  payments 

207.9 

131.1 

205.4 

206.1 

188.7 

Farm-related  income 

282.3 

347.6 

358.3 

327.8 

323.6 

Noncash  income 

127.9 

119.8 

122.3 

116.8 

123.1 

Value  of  home  consumption 

24. 6 

17.0 

21.0 

16.0 

16.6 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

103.3 

102.7 

101 .4 

100.8 

106.5 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

85.2 

86.5 

88.0 

88.9 

82.9 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

18.2 

16.2 

13.3 

11.9 

23.6 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-31.0 

63.1 

93.6 

-103.2 

-83.2 

Total  production  expenses 

2,916.9 

3,143.3 

3,423.4 

3,647.3 

3,669.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,655.1 

1,793.3 

1,918.1 

2,065.9 

2,108.5 

Farm  origin 

622.9 

589.6 

643.0 

655.8 

655.0 

Feed  purchased 

370.1 

366.7 

369.1 

346.7 

380.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

175.6 

132.4 

173.9 

187.6 

158.4 

Seed  purchased 

77.1 

90.5 

100.1 

121.4 

116.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

429.5 

470.0 

504.1 

537.2 

561.8 

Fertilizer  and  lime 

170.8 

174.7 

175.5 

181.8 

193.5 

Pesticides 

112.3 

132.9 

139.1 

160.3 

177.7 

Fuel  and  oi l 

84.0 

88.1 

112.2 

112.6 

107.4 

E lectrici ty 

62.4 

74.3 

77.4 

82.5 

83.1 

Other 

602.7 

733.7 

771 .0 

872.9 

891.7 

Repair  and  maintenance 

191.6 

235.9 

228.0 

235.1 

240.6 

Other  miscellaneous 

411.1 

497.8 

543.0 

637.8 

651.1 

Interest 

278.6 

262.1 

245.3 

217.3 

205.0 

Real  estate 

149.8 

128.7 

112.3 

92.3 

86.5 

Nonreal  estate 

128.8 

133.4 

133.0 

125.0 

118.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

411.6 

459.6 

554.3 

595.3 

583.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

155.9 

196.0 

264.5 

323.1 

319.4 

Capital  consumption 

320.4 

329.5 

326.1 

328.6 

331.7 

Property  taxes 

95.4 

102.8 

115.1 

117.1 

121.6 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

900.9 

1,127.0 

1,108.4 

1,043.5 

1,336.7 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

3,732.7 

4,183.8 

4,443.8 

4,601.8 

4,923.6 

Farm  production  expenses 

2,844.6 

3,071.5 

3,345.9 

3,568.2 

3,594.6 

Nonfactor  payments 

2,013.2 

2,166.8 

2,294.8 

2,444.3 

2,497.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,636.6 

1,776.7 

1,896.1 

2,040.2 

2,090.5 

Capital  consumption 

291.1 

297.9 

295.1 

298.1 

298.0 

Property  taxes 

85.5 

92.1 

103.6 

106.0 

109.2 

Factor  payments 

831.4 

904.8 

1,051.1 

1,123.9 

1,097.0 

Interest 

264.0 

249.2 

232.2 

205.5 

194.1 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

411.6 

459.6 

554.3 

595.3 

583.4 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

155.9 

196.0 

264.5 

323.1 

319.4 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

888.1 

1,112.2 

1,097.9 

1,033.7 

1,328.9 

Gross  cash  income 

3,720.9 

4,087.4 

4,315.9 

4,677.1 

4,966.5 

Cash  expenses 

2,555.6 

2,779.0 

3,059.2 

3,280.2 

3,293.4 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

1,636.6 

1,776.7 

1,896.1 

2,040.2 

2,090.5 

Interest 

264.0 

249.2 

232.2 

205.5 

194.1 

Cash  labor  expenses 

393.8 

444.3 

542.3 

585.0 

559.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

175.7 

216.7 

285.0 

343.5 

339.9 

Property  taxes 

85.5 

92.1 

103.6 

106.0 

109.2 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,165.4 

1,308.4 

1,256.7 

1,397.0 

1,673.1 

Gross  cash  income 

3,720.9 

4,087.4 

4,315.9 

4,677.1 

4,966.5 

Farm  business  expenses 

2,846.6 

3,077.0 

3,354.3 

3,578.2 

3,591.4 

Cash  expenses 

2,555.6 

2,779.0 

3,059.2 

3,280.2 

3,293.4 

Capital  consumption 

291.1 

297.9 

295.1 

298.1 

298.0 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

874.3 

1,010.4 

961.5 

1,098.9 

1,375.1 

Number 

Number  of  farms 

38,000 

38,000 

37,000 

37,000 

37,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


66 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92 --continued 


I  tern 


WEST  VIRGINIA 

Gross  farm  income 
Gross  cash  income 
Farm  marketings 
Crops 

Livestock  and  products 
Government  payments 
Farm-related  income 
Noncash  income 

Value  of  home  consumption 
Rental  value  of  dwellings 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 
Hired  laborer  dwellings 
Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

Total  production  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Farm  origin 
Feed  purchased 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 
Seed  purchased 
Manufactured  inputs 
Fertilizer  and  lime 
Pesticides 
Fuel  and  oi l 
E lectrici ty 
Other 

Repair  and  maintenance 
Other  miscellaneous 
Interest 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

Farm  production  expenses 
Nonfactor  payments 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Capital  consumption 
Property  taxes 

Factor  payments 
Interest 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 
Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

Gross  cash  income 
Cash  expenses 

Intermediate  product  expenses 
Interest 

Cash  labor  expenses 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

Property  taxes 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

Gross  cash  income 

Farm  business  expenses 
Cash  expenses 
Capital  consumption 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 


Number  of  farms 


1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

391.8 

421.1 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

454.6 

433.6 

340.4 

373.9 

394.9 

386.8 

274.4 

307.0 

333.0 

323.9 

56.7 

57.0 

63.8 

70.8 

217.8 

250.0 

269.2 

253.1 

12.2 

11.6 

6.0 

5.4 

53.9 

55.3 

55.9 

57.4 

48.4 

43.8 

41 .5 

40.2 

9.5 

7.0 

8.3 

7.1 

38.9 

36.8 

33.2 

33.0 

37.6 

35.5 

31.8 

31.5 

1.3 

1.4 

1.4 

1.5 

3.0 

3.4 

18.2 

6.6 

349.4 

362.8 

372.2 

364.5 

191.2 

188.8 

197.3 

194.0 

80.0 

77.1 

83.7 

75.4 

49.3 

48.7 

49.8 

44.5 

26.3 

23.7 

29.1 

25.6 

4.5 

4.7 

4.8 

5.3 

30.8 

33.0 

35.2 

34.5 

10.0 

10.9 

10.8 

9.6 

4.9 

5.8 

6.2 

7.1 

11.2 

11.1 

13.4 

12.9 

4.6 

5.1 

5.0 

4.9 

80.4 

78.7 

78.4 

84.1 

37.9 

39.0 

37.9 

39.2 

42.5 

39.7 

40.5 

44.9 

30.3 

40.7 

39.2 

35.5 

20.6 

30.2 

28.6 

25.6 

9.7 

10.5 

10.5 

9.9 

24.0 

26.2 

30.6 

29.6 

1.7 

1.1 

2.3 

2.6 

95.0 

98.5 

94.7 

94.9 

7.2 

7.5 

8.1 

8.0 

42.4 

58.3 

82.3 

69.1 

354.2 

385.6 

422.8 

402.0 

328.6 

341.1 

350.5 

341.8 

274.1 

276.5 

282.1 

277.7 

184.4 

183.4 

190.9 

186.2 

83.6 

86.9 

84.4 

84.6 

6.1 

6.3 

6.9 

6.9 

54.5 

64.6 

68.4 

64.1 

28.8 

37.3 

35.4 

32.0 

24.0 

26.2 

30.6 

29.6 

1.7 

1.1 

2.3 

2.6 

25.6 

44.5 

72.3 

60.2 

340.4 

373.9 

394.9 

386.8 

247.4 

256.8 

268.5 

259.5 

184.4 

183.4 

190.9 

186.2 

28.8 

37.3 

35.4 

32.0 

22.8 

24.9 

29.4 

28.1 

5.3 

5.0 

6.0 

6.2 

6.1 

6.3 

6.9 

6.9 

93.0 

117.1 

126.4 

127.3 

340.4 

373.9 

394.9 

386.8 

331.0 

343.7 

352.9 

344.0 

247.4 

256.8 

268.5 

259.5 

83.6 

86.9 

84.4 

84.6 

9.4 

30.3 

42.0 

42.7 

1,000 

21,000 

Number 

20,500 

20,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


440.0 

405.2 

342.5 

75.5 

267.1 
6.9 

55.7 

42.1 

7.6 

34.4 

33.2 
1.2 

-7.2 

361.0 

188.1 
77.0 

49.7 

22.2 

5.1 

34.6 
10.0 

7.2 

12.7 

4.6 

76.4 
32.9 

43.5 

33.5 
24.0 

9.5 

30.2 

3.2 

97.6 
8.4 

79.0 

406.8 

338.1 

274.5 
181.4 

85.7 

7.3 

63.6 
30.2 
30.2 

3.2 

68.7 

405.2 

254.9 
181.4 

30.2 

29.0 

6.9 

7.3 

150.3 
405.2 

340.6 
254.9 

85.7 

64.6 


20,000 


continued-- 


67 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988 -92 --continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

WISCONSIN 

Gross  farm  income 

5,460.1 

6,723.3 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

6,491.5 

5,989.4 

5,971.1 

Gross  cash  income 

5,606.2 

6,119.6 

6,127.8 

5,791.0 

5,879.0 

Farm  marketings 

5,011.3 

5,391.0 

5,719.0 

5,416.5 

5,499.0 

Crops 

796.1 

1,041.4 

1,145.7 

1,225.5 

1,185.7 

Livestock  and  products 

4,215.2 

4,349.6 

4,573.3 

4,191.1 

4,313.4 

Government  payments 

409.4 

522.3 

181 .2 

150.0 

166.0 

Farm-related  income 

185.6 

206.2 

227.5 

224.6 

213.9 

Noncash  income 

211.1 

214.3 

218.4 

217.0 

219.5 

Value  of  home  consumption 

26.1 

25.1 

26.1 

25.2 

24.3 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

184.9 

189.2 

192.4 

191.8 

195.1 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

168.6 

171.9 

175.1 

172.8 

180.6 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

16.3 

17.4 

17.3 

18.9 

14.5 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-357.2 

389.4 

145.3 

-18.6 

-127.4 

Total  production  expenses 

4,516.9 

4,926.5 

5,153.0 

5,202.8 

5,159.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,494.0 

2,620.9 

2,785.8 

2,851.3 

2,803.0 

Farm  origin 

937.4 

917.2 

954.5 

960.8 

981.3 

Feed  purchased 

747.2 

715.6 

744.4 

728.8 

757.4 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

40.6 

39.1 

42.7 

41.9 

41.2 

Seed  purchased 

149.5 

162.5 

167.4 

190.1 

182.7 

Manufactured  inputs 

626.5 

678.6 

709.6 

744.4 

715.4 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

246.5 

260.0 

244.4 

255.8 

245.2 

Pesticides 

96.3 

121.1 

134.7 

164.9 

157.7 

Fuel  and  oi l 

159.9 

160.2 

197.2 

190.9 

183.7 

E lectrici ty 

123.9 

137.2 

133.3 

132.9 

128.8 

Other 

930.1 

1,025.2 

1,121.7 

1,146.1 

1,106.3 

Repair  and  maintenance 

347.7 

385.8 

406.6 

412.8 

342.7 

Other  miscellaneous 

582.4 

639.3 

715.1 

733.3 

763.7 

Interest 

517.0 

502.1 

490.9 

451.7 

426.8 

Real  estate 

268.4 

255.6 

244.4 

219.5 

205.8 

Nonreal  estate 

248.6 

246.5 

246.5 

232.2 

221.0 

Contract  and  hired  tabor  expenses 

310.2 

352.9 

433.7 

457.0 

489.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

80.1 

291.8 

242.2 

228.5 

188.7 

Capital  consumption 

812.1 

828.8 

829.1 

837.3 

844.1 

Property  taxes 

303.5 

329.9 

371.3 

377.0 

407.8 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

943.2 

1,796.8 

1,338.6 

786.7 

811.3 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

5,291.5 

6,551.5 

6,316.4 

5,816.6 

5,790.5 

Farm  production  expenses 

4,356.0 

4,741.3 

4,954.0 

5,006.1 

4,965.5 

Nonfactor  payments 

3,479.6 

3,643.2 

3,837.1 

3,914.5 

3,903.0 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,463.1 

2,594.9 

2,753.5 

2,815.9 

2,772.0 

Capital  consumption 

762.8 

774.8 

774.9 

782.7 

783.3 

Property  taxes 

253.7 

273.4 

308.7 

315.8 

347.7 

Factor  payments 

876.4 

1,098.1 

1,117.0 

1,091.7 

1,062.5 

Interest 

486.1 

453.4 

441.1 

406.2 

384.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

310.2 

352.9 

433.7 

457.0 

489.3 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

80.1 

291.8 

242.2 

228.5 

188.7 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

935.5 

1,810.1 

1,362.4 

810.5 

824.9 

Gross  cash  income 

5,606.2 

6,119.6 

6,127.8 

5,791.0 

5,879.0 

Cash  expenses 

3,643.6 

4,018.2 

4,231.0 

4,273.0 

4,236.9 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

2,463.1 

2,594.9 

2,753.5 

2,815.9 

2,772.0 

Interest 

486.1 

453.4 

441.1 

406.2 

384.5 

Cash  labor  expenses 

293.7 

335.4 

416.2 

437.0 

474.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

146.9 

361.0 

311.5 

298.0 

258.0 

Property  taxes 

253.7 

273.4 

308.7 

315.8 

347.7 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

1,962.6 

2,101.4 

1,896.8 

1,518.0 

1,642.1 

Gross  cash  income 

5,606.2 

6,119.6 

6,127.8 

5,791.0 

5,879.0 

Farm  business  expenses 

4,406.4 

4,793.0 

5,005.9 

5,055.7 

5,020.2 

Cash  expenses 

3,643.6 

4,018.2 

4,231 .0 

4,273.0 

4,236.9 

Capital  consumption 

762.8 

774.8 

774.9 

782.7 

783.3 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

1,199.9 

1,326.6 

1,121.9 

735.3 

858.8 

Number  of  farms 

82,000 

81,000 

Number 

80,000 

79,000 

79,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


68 


Table  4--Farm  income  indicators,  1988-92--continued 


I  tern 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

WYOMING 

Gross  farm  income 

829.4 

814.3 

Mi l l ion  dollars 

852.7 

1,032.0 

922.2 

Gross  cash  income 

801.3 

887.5 

812.5 

897.1 

839.9 

Farm  marketings 

736.6 

827.2 

756.7 

836.9 

773.3 

Crops 

152.4 

162.7 

161.6 

168.9 

167.1 

Livestock  and  products 

584.2 

664.4 

595.1 

668.1 

606.2 

Government  payments 

37.7 

34.1 

31.3 

33.2 

36.7 

Farm-related  income 

27.1 

26.2 

24.5 

26.9 

29.9 

Noncash  income 

39.4 

39.1 

38.7 

35.6 

37.3 

Value  of  home  consumption 

Rental  value  of  dwellings 

4.5 

4.6 

4.2 

3.6 

6.3 

34.9 

34.5 

34.5 

32.0 

31.0 

Operator  and  other  dwellings  1/ 

32.1 

31.2 

31.0 

28.0 

28.1 

Hired  laborer  dwellings 

2.8 

3.3 

3.5 

4.0 

2.9 

Value  of  inventory  adjustment 

-11.4 

-112.3 

1.5 

99.3 

45.0 

Total  production  expenses 

732.8 

719.6 

705.6 

800.6 

683.1 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

481.0 

468.8 

443.3 

549.5 

437.4 

Farm  origin 

288.4 

263.1 

238.4 

333.6 

226.7 

Feed  purchased 

69.5 

62.1 

47.2 

45.7 

49.6 

Livestock  and  poultry  purchased 

210.3 

191.6 

181 .5 

276.8 

166.5 

Seed  purchased 

8.7 

9.4 

9.7 

11.0 

10.6 

Manufactured  inputs 

64.2 

65.2 

68.9 

70.9 

65.5 

Fert i l i zer  and  l ime 

17.5 

16.5 

14.4 

16.8 

14.0 

Pesticides 

7.3 

8.2 

8.0 

8.6 

8.7 

F  ue l  and  o i l 

28.4 

28.2 

34.4 

33.3 

29.7 

Electricity 

11.0 

12.3 

12.1 

12.2 

13.1 

Other 

128.4 

140.4 

136.0 

145.0 

145.1 

Repair  and  maintenance 

40.8 

42.8 

41.0 

39.6 

47.3 

Other  miscellaneous 

87.6 

97.6 

95.0 

105.4 

97.8 

Interest 

77.0 

72.4 

70.8 

65.5 

62.1 

Real  estate 

36.9 

33.4 

31.3 

28.3 

26.5 

Nonreal  estate 

40.0 

39.1 

39.5 

37.2 

35.5 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

48.8 

51.1 

57.1 

53.4 

50.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

22.5 

21.7 

27.3 

26.6 

27.1 

Capital  consumption 

79.6 

80.8 

80.7 

79.8 

78.9 

Property  taxes 

24.0 

24.7 

26.5 

25.8 

27.1 

NET  FARM  INCOME  2/ 

96.6 

94.7 

147.1 

231.4 

239.1 

Gross  receipts  of  farms 

797.3 

783.1 

821.7 

1,004.0 

894.1 

Farm  production  expenses 

714.1 

701.7 

687.4 

784.1 

667.0 

Nonfactor  payments 

567.5 

558.0 

534.0 

640.2 

528.8 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

475.8 

465.0 

439.2 

546.1 

434.3 

Capital  consumption 

69.7 

70.4 

70.4 

70.3 

69.4 

Property  taxes 

21.9 

22.6 

24.3 

23.8 

25.1 

Factor  payments 

146.6 

143.7 

153.4 

143.8 

138.3 

Interest 

75.3 

70.9 

69.1 

63.8 

60.6 

Contract  and  hired  labor  expenses 

48.8 

51.1 

57.1 

53.4 

50.6 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

22.5 

21.7 

27.3 

26.6 

27.1 

RETURNS  TO  OPERATORS  3/ 

83.2 

81.4 

134.3 

219.9 

227.1 

Gross  cash  income 

801.3 

887.5 

812.5 

897.1 

839.9 

Cash  expenses 

645.4 

631.9 

617.3 

713.2 

598.6 

Intermediate  product  expenses 

475.8 

465.0 

439.2 

546.1 

434.3 

Interest 

75.3 

70.9 

69.1 

63.8 

60.6 

Cash  labor  expenses 

45.8 

47.7 

53.3 

48.9 

47.7 

Net  rent  to  nonoperator  landlords 

26.5 

25.8 

31 .3 

30.6 

31.0 

Property  taxes 

21.9 

22.6 

24.3 

23.8 

25.1 

NET  CASH  INCOME 

156.0 

255.6 

195.2 

183.8 

241.2 

Gross  cash  income 

801.3 

887.5 

812.5 

897.1 

839.9 

Farm  business  expenses 

715.1 

702.3 

687.7 

783.5 

668.0 

Cash  expenses 

645.4 

631.9 

617.3 

713.2 

598.6 

Capital  consumption 

69.7 

70.4 

70.4 

70.3 

69.4 

NET  BUSINESS  INCOME 

86.2 

185.2 

124.8 

113.6 

171.8 

Number  of  farms 

8,900 

8,900 

Number 

8,900 

9,000 

9,200 

1/  Value  added  to  gross  income.  Value  added  to  net  farm  income  equals  difference  in  net  farm  income  and 
returns  to  operators.  2/  Statistics  in  and  above  the  Net  Farm  Income  line  represent  the  farm  sector,  defined 
as  including  farm  operators'  dwellings  located  on  farms.  Statistics  below  the  Net  Farm  Income  line  represent 
only  the  farm  businesses  to  the  exclusion  of  the  operators'  dwellings.  3/  Returns  to  operators  is  equivalent 
to  net  farm  income  excluding  the  income  and  expenses  associated  with  farm  operators'  dwellings. 


69 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/ 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

:  1989 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

UNITED  STATES 

All  comnodities 

151,154,021 

161,164,414 

169,973,258 

168,721,475 

171,168,411 

Livestock  and  products 

79,434,037 

84,122,441 

89,842,983 

86,779,708 

86,357,964 

Meat  animals 

46,491,935 

46,856,614 

51,910,963 

51,089,301 

48,426,504 

Cattle  and  calves 

36,809,614 

36,894,270 

39,944,797 

39,644,036 

37,882,368 

Hogs 

9,206,537 

9,474,956 

11,552,009 

11,045,167 

10,088,234 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

475,784 

487,388 

414,157 

400,098 

455,902 

Dairy  products 

17,641,375 

19,395,992 

20,149,293 

18,037,067 

19,847,999 

Milk,  retail 

263,972 

254,157 

192,882 

195,014 

277,395 

Milk,  wholesale 

17,377,403 

19,141,835 

19,956,411 

17,842,053 

19,570,604 

Poultry/ eggs 

12,867,516 

15,371,913 

15,243,140 

15,121,888 

15,441,037 

Broi lers 

7,435,106 

8,777,668 

8,365,470 

8,383,046 

9,155,992 

Farm  chickens 

95,350 

138,441 

90,346 

67,277 

82,901 

Chicken  eggs 

3,066,845 

3,861,538 

4,010,460 

3,908,695 

3,389,042 

Turkeys 

1,951,399 

2,234,424 

2,378,561 

2,344,743 

2,386,780 

Ducks 

8,904 

8,586 

7,952 

7,920 

8,736 

Other  poultry 

309,912 

351,256 

390,351 

410,207 

417,586 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

2,433,211 

2,497,922 

2,539,587 

2,531,452 

2,642,424 

Honey 

108,046 

89,418 

107,747 

123,129 

124,073 

Horses/mules 

540,000 

524,000 

490,000 

466,000 

433,000 

Mohair 

31,769 

27,198 

15,117 

20,812 

13,389 

Wool 

124,769 

110,313 

69,345 

47,159 

60,493 

Aquaculture 

322,512 

406,526 

540,606 

468,762 

502,211 

Other  livestock 

1,304,430 

1,338,986 

1,315,317 

1,405,590 

1,509,258 

Crops 

71,719,984 

77,041,973 

80,130,275 

81,941,767 

84,810,447 

Food  grains 

7,469,449 

8,246,637 

7,517,051 

7,410,419 

8,890,223 

Rice 

1,086,039 

941,519 

1,075,942 

1,092,385 

1,232,132 

Rye 

22,443 

19,308 

15,492 

15,316 

17,513 

Wheat 

6,360,967 

7,285,810 

6,425,617 

6,302,718 

7,640,578 

Feed  crops 

14,282,829 

17,053,517 

18,670,904 

19,491,265 

20,072,670 

Barley 

861,561 

764,960 

822,623 

812,531 

851,692 

Corn 

8,922,696 

11,388,225 

13,339,757 

14,404,971 

14,741,596 

Hay 

3,119,469 

3,387,802 

3,280,496 

2,972,768 

2,912,702 

Oats 

304,752 

267,593 

220,947 

141,925 

164,980 

Sorghum  grain 

1,070,805 

1,240,077 

1,002,165 

1,152,272 

1,396,650 

Si lage 

3,546 

4,860 

4,916 

6,798 

5,050 

Cotton 

4,546,431 

5,033,117 

5,489,187 

5,236,423 

5,207,216 

Cotton  lint,  all 

3,944,036 

4,589,644 

4,883,288 

4,800,617 

4,685,732 

Cottonseed 

602,395 

443,473 

605,899 

435,806 

521,484 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


70 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Tobacco 

2,082,935 

2,414,679 

2,740,994 

2,886,039 

2,961,212 

Oi  l  crops 

13,500,496 

11,866,206 

12,258,143 

12,700,234 

12,995,971 

Peanuts 

1,115,738 

1,116,971 

1,257,743 

1,392,282 

1,285,671 

Soybeans 

12,138,332 

10,524,005 

10,756,268 

10,975,196 

11,343,492 

Sunflower 

223,803 

212,497 

216,953 

265,807 

285,960 

Sesame 

NA 

525 

635 

306 

306 

Vegetables 

9,817,740 

11,597,683 

11,448,800 

11,551,556 

11,435,765 

Beans,  dry 

421,353 

687,817 

692,406 

518,752 

487,423 

Peas,  dry 

46,451 

54,260 

44,328 

44,021 

30,391 

Lentils  (beans) 

16,847 

20,898 

20,300 

26,068 

32,103 

Potatoes 

1,629,779 

2,335,558 

2,447,948 

2,141,361 

2,033,176 

Sweetpotatoes 

146,026 

175,316 

137,415 

131,989 

161,318 

Taro 

1,904 

1,996 

2,262 

2,795 

2,881 

Asparagus 

146,439 

149,779 

148,380 

150,663 

162,543 

Beans,  green  lima 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

21,251 

Beans,  snap 

166,353 

228,156 

205,170 

205,189 

216,608 

Beets 

1,580 

1,767 

2,219 

1,642 

4,287 

Broccoli 

292,240 

276,050 

268,220 

242,155 

279,682 

Cabbage 

70,147 

78,585 

110,102 

112,242 

182,436 

Carrots 

267,565 

297,227 

272,573 

309,237 

338,247 

Caul  if  lower 

202,113 

204,840 

190,350 

188,395 

204,323 

Celery 

230,762 

268,266 

214,708 

205,701 

228,908 

Corn,  sweet 

360,266 

468,433 

467,898 

496,770 

447,428 

Cucurbers 

195,714 

203,195 

231,324 

230,850 

274,926 

Eggplant,  all 

13,531 

14,216 

15,725 

16,243 

20,282 

Escarole 

15,457 

12,646 

10,913 

13,141 

9,598 

Lettuce 

1,040,366 

950,278 

844,142 

817,667 

1,107,642 

Onions 

499,662 

538,137 

534,500 

602,247 

664,611 

Peas,  green 

73,166 

119,963 

131,494 

128,140 

136,022 

Peppers,  green 

103,361 

121,315 

150,182 

206,658 

367,650 

Peppers,  chili 

48,173 

53,003 

67,966 

59,219 

67,379 

Spinach 

3,225 

4,241 

11,604 

10,482 

69,621 

Tomatoes 

1,415,242 

1,841,185 

1,625,760 

1,801,495 

1,819,386 

Radi shes 

18,685 

19,987 

28,497 

35,269 

21,578 

Squash 

40,144 

35,958 

36,598 

60,453 

52,203 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

1,987,556 

2,108,852 

2,135,661 

2,459,640 

1,440,074 

Honeydews 

75,341 

62,334 

81,218 

68,895 

61,776 

Watermelons 

73,251 

54,337 

124,089 

164,649 

198,866 

Casaba  melons 

8,500 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Fruits/nuts 

9,026,895 

9,173,443 

9,439,503 

9,888,295 

10,182,511 

Grapefruit 

470,602 

436,344 

364,876 

416,819 

403,033 

Lemons 

188,290 

222,925 

305,872 

271,406 

234,658 

Limes 

20,778 

21,187 

28,286 

28,001 

11,177 

Oranges 

1,825,064 

1,785,512 

1,727,667 

1,392,770 

1,615,844 

Tangelos 

35,203 

24,776 

21,990 

23,333 

17,339 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


71 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

:  1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Tangerines 

91,556 

77,575 

1,000  dollars 

71,313 

85,626 

87,212 

K-early  citrus  2/ 

2,437 

1,578 

1,110 

810 

1,836 

Apples 

925,761 

993,885 

1,086,273 

1,650,977 

1,684,037 

Apricots 

33,927 

40,222 

40,937 

37,356 

39,693 

Avocados 

211,790 

224,231 

245,005 

204,141 

187,083 

Cherries 

189,105 

172,612 

156,162 

229,085 

235,169 

Dates 

18,795 

22,119 

21,360 

21,230 

22,037 

Figs 

19,712 

18,198 

17,273 

16,626 

17,057 

Grapes 

1,599,571 

1,866,520 

1,676,836 

1,736,471 

1,713,185 

Nectarines 

78,861 

87,645 

109,999 

86,457 

73,943 

01 ives 

45,325 

57,441 

64,059 

36,530 

91,576 

Peaches 

382,127 

359,361 

372,142 

394,180 

372,787 

Pears 

218,359 

259,171 

260,863 

271,577 

276,225 

Persimnons 

7,100 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Pineapples 

107,402 

98,310 

106,365 

107,775 

102,100 

Plans  and  prates 

254,966 

251,946 

295,334 

256,412 

245,370 

Pomegranates 

6,454 

4,906 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Coffee 

6,600 

12,480 

7,290 

6,210 

5,400 

Bananas 

4,356 

4,344 

4,294 

4,674 

4,428 

Papayas 

12,354 

14,380 

14,805 

16,228 

14,415 

Kiwi  fruit 

22,420 

14,800 

14,110 

21,976 

13,340 

Mangos 

5,250 

5,200 

4,725 

6,150 

4,280 

Cranberries 

186,340 

164,720 

156,365 

206,616 

199,471 

Strawberries 

544,279 

537,756 

590,158 

634,028 

684,754 

Blueberries 

77,428 

61,998 

68,339 

66,126 

127,925 

Raspberries 

25,248 

31,442 

20,689 

28,607 

66,942 

Other  berries 

125,778 

137,709 

151,971 

163,954 

85,053 

Almonds 

600,075 

480,930 

597,990 

564,179 

670,068 

Fi Iberts 

14,082 

10,664 

17,011 

18,519 

15,304 

Pecans 

166,702 

178,965 

247,677 

307,016 

240,623 

Walnuts 

193,743 

245,030 

236,080 

279,720 

267,960 

Macadamia  nuts 

40,950 

44,945 

41,000 

34,650 

32,640 

Pistachios 

114,680 

63,570 

122,400 

96,250 

151,410 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

140,127 

127,094 

155,480 

145,016 

140,304 

All  other  crops 

10,993,209 

11,656,691 

12,565,693 

12,777,536 

13,064,879 

Maple  products 

23,458 

24,116 

20,628 

24,626 

39,125 

Sugarbeets 

1,021,912 

1,056,515 

1,178,231 

1,084,281 

1,109,065 

Cane  for  sugar 

854,265 

869,878 

820,077 

867,879 

921,531 

Alfalfa 

50,352 

65,923 

77,615 

72,600 

50,840 

Bent grass 

10,992 

15,655 

16,712 

17,057 

12,062 

B l uegrass- Kent ucky 

21,122 

24,931 

20,866 

19,053 

22,316 

Crimson  clover 

2,549 

2,929 

3,896 

3,814 

4,104 

Fescue 

63,647 

54,663 

64,713 

64,518 

43,309 

Orchardgrass 

12,423 

9,115 

7,975 

6,901 

8,865 

Red  clover 

7,686 

9,103 

5,617 

5,146 

7,088 

Ryegrass 

100,837 

102,836 

90,333 

86,989 

92,025 

Sorghon  Sudan  crosses 

8,000 

6,000 

5,000 

6,000 

5,000 

Other  seeds 

253,897 

204,137 

215,789 

238,062 

240,599 

Hops 

80,571 

81,582 

84,178 

115,997 

129,666 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


72 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

:  1989  : 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

Mint 

107,706 

112,698 

1,000  dollars 

134,809 

130,542 

141,279 

Other  field  crops 

441,926 

491,706 

576,908 

477,471 

509,131 

Christmas  trees 

57,229 

56,848 

65,208 

67,651 

70,753 

Greenhouse/nursery 

7,301,823 

7,837,963 

8,510,334 

8,827,695 

8,998,769 

Mushrooms 

572,710 

630,013 

666,804 

661,254 

659,352 

ALABAMA 

All  comnodities 

2,419,631 

2,674,981 

2,827,260 

3,006,747 

2,830,062 

Livestock  and  products 

1,694,579 

1,974,582 

2,193,241 

2,237,108 

2,062,559 

Meat  animals 

499,362 

558,421 

714,382 

771,735 

556,658 

Cattle  and  calves 

452,673 

491,996 

588,800 

645,505 

446,404 

Hogs 

46,689 

66,425 

125,582 

126,032 

110,039 

Dairy  products 

73,982 

78,076 

81,090 

69,795 

72,500 

Milk,  wholesale 

73,982 

78,076 

81,090 

69,795 

72,500 

Poultry/eggs 

1,085,822 

1,294,365 

1,341,187 

1,335,673 

1,368,509 

Broi lers 

936,460 

1,134,112 

1,165,334 

1,147,956 

1,194,901 

Farm  chickens 

5,433 

6,905 

4,689 

2,822 

2,570 

Chicken  eggs 

143,429 

152,698 

170,414 

184,095 

170,188 

Other  poultry 

500 

650 

750 

800 

850 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

35,413 

43,720 

56,582 

59,905 

64,892 

Aquaculture 

19,337 

23,200 

30,954 

29,539 

32,247 

All  other  livestock 

15,000 

20,000 

25,000 

30,000 

32,000 

Crops 

725,052 

700,399 

634,019 

769,639 

767,503 

Food  grains 

25,843 

24,981 

19,059 

7,754 

12,691 

Wheat 

25,843 

24,981 

19,059 

7,754 

12,691 

Feed  crops 

35,527 

37,817 

34,689 

37,541 

48,232 

Com 

11,109 

15,626 

17,925 

20,988 

31,733 

Hay 

21,957 

19,697 

15,056 

14,993 

14,853 

Sorghun  grain 

1,640 

1,765 

1,238 

1,338 

1,224 

Cotton 

128,310 

114,940 

136,756 

156,261 

172,137 

Cotton  lint,  all 

116,712 

104,037 

125,385 

146,898 

157,771 

Cottonseed 

11,598 

10,903 

11,371 

9,363 

14,366 

Tobacco 

1,071 

1,005 

1,359 

1,109 

1,282 

Oil  crops 

268,120 

231,561 

155,321 

231,762 

222,923 

Peanuts 

165,696 

153,259 

104,758 

187,715 

180,310 

Soybeans 

102,424 

78,302 

50,563 

43,951 

42,420 

Vegetables 

75,799 

91,655 

79,418 

89,894 

82,449 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


73 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  cornnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Potatoes 

9,173 

27,303 

18,316 

11,140 

10,816 

Spring 

4,720 

13,526 

9,672 

3,000 

4,432 

Sumter 

4,453 

13,777 

8,644 

8,140 

6,384 

Sweetpotatoes 

6,585 

8,535 

7,357 

8,034 

8,567 

Corn,  sweet 

2,450 

2,706 

3,333 

3,226 

2,682 

Tomatoes 

6,783 

7,290 

9,408 

11,200 

5,022 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

50,400 

45,000 

40,000 

55,000 

52,000 

Fruits/nuts 

18,164 

21,404 

15,416 

28,358 

16,508 

Peaches 

4,444 

3,444 

2,856 

3,408 

3,756 

Other  berries 

2,500 

2,000 

3,000 

4,000 

3,000 

Pecans 

5,120 

10,460 

4,560 

15,450 

4,780 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

6,100 

5,500 

5,000 

5,500 

4,800 

All  other  crops 

172,218 

177,036 

192,001 

216,960 

211,281 

Other  seeds 

4,000 

3,500 

3,000 

2,500 

2,200 

Other  field  crops 

4,000 

4,000 

3,500 

3,300 

3,300 

Greenhouse/nursery 

164,218 

169,536 

185,501 

211,160 

205,781 

Floriculture 

25,068 

29,536 

35,501 

51,160 

50,781 

Ornamentals,  other 

139,150 

140,000 

150,000 

160,000 

155,000 

ALASKA 

All  commodities 

30,276 

28,643 

26,663 

26,559 

25,478 

Livestock  and  products 

9,938 

8,868 

7,464 

6,386 

5,847 

Meat  animals 

1,251 

1,388 

1,137 

715 

848 

Dairy  products 

5,969 

4,549 

3,254 

2,582 

2,391 

Milk,  retail 

91 

65 

67 

65 

65 

Milk,  wholesale 

5,878 

4,484 

3,187 

2,517 

2,326 

Poultry/ eggs 

91 

118 

94 

85 

76 

Farm  chickens 

24 

20 

33 

25 

26 

Chicken  eggs 

59 

90 

53 

52 

42 

Other  poultry 

8 

8 

8 

8 

8 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

2,627 

2,813 

2,979 

3,004 

2,532 

Other  livestock 

2,604 

2,794 

2,963 

2,988 

2,526 

Crops 

20,338 

19,775 

19,199 

20,173 

19,631 

Feed  crops 

2,884 

2,018 

1,708 

2,472 

1,903 

Hay 

2,240 

1,275 

1,394 

1,715 

1,523 

Oats 

63 

107 

50 

114 

18 

Vegetables 

2,988 

3,020 

2,790 

2,457 

2,531 

Potatoes 

2,171 

2,226 

1,910 

1,574 

1,591 

Spring 

NA 

NA 

NA 

1,574 

1,591 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


74 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

817 

794 

1,000  dollars 

880 

883 

940 

All  other  crops 

14,466 

14,737 

14,701 

15,244 

15,197 

Other  field  crops 

621 

279 

131 

164 

137 

Greenhouse/nursery 

13,845 

14,458 

14,570 

15,080 

15,060 

ARIZONA 

All  commodities 

1,959,149 

1,917,918 

1,908,577 

1,867,235 

1,835,250 

Livestock  and  products 

791,687 

744,186 

812,900 

786,222 

892,463 

Meat  animals 

553,610 

481,298 

526,648 

545,902 

608,598 

Cattle  and  calves 

518,411 

450,771 

497,166 

515,831 

580,522 

Hogs 

23,612 

19,865 

19,738 

20,960 

19,253 

Sheep  and  lambs 

11,587 

10,662 

9,744 

9,111 

8,823 

Dairy  products 

184,760 

206,176 

230,535 

207,644 

236,607 

Milk,  wholesale 

184,760 

206,176 

230,535 

207,644 

236,607 

Poultry/ eggs 

4,896 

5,396 

4,971 

4,513 

3,758 

Chicken  eggs 

3,082 

4,148 

3,711 

3,967 

3,520 

Other  poultry 

1,745 

1,200 

1,220 

529 

224 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

48,421 

51,316 

50,746 

28. 163 

43,500 

Honey 

1,753 

1,931 

1,576 

1,988 

1,966 

Wool 

1,890 

1,793 

977 

626 

728 

Other  livestock 

44,326 

47,226 

47,985 

25,353 

40,590 

Crops 

1,167,462 

1,173,732 

1,095,677 

1,081,013 

942,787 

Food  grains 

29,972 

42,664 

33,932 

21,470 

28,697 

Wheat 

29,972 

42,664 

33,932 

21,470 

28,697 

Feed  crops 

126,107 

123,357 

126,179 

121,384 

81,012 

Barley 

2,776 

2,863 

3,442 

4,481 

4,569 

Com 

4,726 

4,185 

2,785 

2,334 

1,834 

Hay 

113,918 

110,774 

114,843 

107,441 

69,163 

Sorghum  grain 

1,141 

675 

193 

330 

396 

Si lage 

3,546 

4,860 

4,916 

6,798 

5,050 

Com  silage 

3,240 

3,780 

4,536 

6,048 

3,250 

Sorghum  silage 

306 

1,080 

380 

750 

1,800 

Cotton 

370,624 

492,955 

457,571 

382,439 

303,728 

Cotton  lint,  all 

325,837 

454,456 

415,394 

353,774 

275,316 

Upland 

219,357 

251,427 

252,834 

269,151 

212,888 

Long  staple 

106,480 

203,029 

162,560 

84,623 

62,428 

Cottonseed 

44,787 

38,499 

42,177 

28,665 

28,412 

Oil  crops 

5,887 

4,267 

9,223 

6,294 

5,867 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


75 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  ccmnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  ccmnodity 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Peanuts 

536 

519 

558 

241 

342 

Sesame 

NA 

525 

635 

306 

306 

Jojoba 

5,175 

3,006 

7,875 

5,625 

4,500 

Vegetables 

452,078 

320,895 

244,638 

319,636 

316,057 

Potatoes 

11,379 

14,824 

14,901 

18,376 

10,912 

Broccoli 

9,697 

11,124 

10,977 

15,079 

14,770 

Carrots 

2,428 

3,737 

1,897 

1,984 

3,262 

Cauliflower 

19,935 

21,974 

15,926 

22,548 

19,558 

Lettuce,  western 

304,038 

179,254 

89,551 

133,200 

128,204 

Lettuce,  Other 

17,325 

11,533 

10,039 

16,016 

5,953 

Onions 

3,398 

3,816 

5,006 

3,797 

4,418 

Mi sc.  vegetables 

43,962 

45,073 

46,378 

53,496 

35,063 

Honeydews 

7,266 

4,032 

10,037 

8,931 

4,833 

Watermelons 

10,695 

9,287 

12,151 

11,844 

9,024 

Frui ts/nuts 

100,089 

101,838 

140,960 

143,137 

135,381 

Grapefruit 

7,703 

9,280 

20,538 

16,273 

21,019 

Fresh  pink  seedless 

7,135 

8,673 

20,264 

16,387 

20,265 

Lemons 

22,914 

34,409 

42,896 

49,063 

38,119 

Fresh 

21,688 

30,901 

37,833 

46,506 

34,079 

Processing 

1,226 

3,508 

5,063 

2,557 

4,040 

Oranges 

17,234 

13,476 

12,409 

13,660 

13,921 

Nav.,  fr.  early&mid 

8,198 

3,748 

6,521 

6,934 

6,982 

Valencias,  fresh 

7,763 

7,846 

3,899 

6,391 

6,391 

Valencias,  proc. 

802 

1,800 

1,855 

261 

301 

Tangerines 

7,291 

10,361 

10,058 

9,995 

13,111 

Fresh 

7,069 

10,067 

9,811 

9,955 

12,803 

Apples 

NA 

2,531 

4,892 

7,891 

6,059 

Fresh 

NA 

2,022 

2,442 

4,932 

2,577 

Processing 

NA 

509 

2,450 

2,959 

3,482 

Grapes 

29,913 

17,861 

22,616 

19,686 

12,488 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

15,034 

2,349 

1,551 

2,629 

4,764 

All  other  crops 

82,705 

87,756 

83,174 

86,653 

72,045 

Other  seeds 

13,021 

21,198 

19,505 

20,095 

22,002 

Other  field  crops 

1,780 

2,078 

1,769 

1,338 

2,031 

Greenhouse/nursery 

67,800 

64,400 

61 ,900 

65,220 

48,012 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

12,562 

Ornamentals,  other 

67,800 

64,400 

61,900 

65,220 

35,450 

ARKANSAS 

All  comnodities 

3,853,885 

4,156,852 

4,251,574 

4,241,502 

4,602,230 

Livestock  and  products 

2,304,153 

2,660,755 

2,701,261 

2,663,870 

2,701,729 

Meat  animals 

536,438 

591,859 

681,759 

653,721 

514,997 

Cattle  and  calves 

449,890 

485,681 

526,138 

519,525 

394,328 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


76 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

:  1989 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

Hogs 

86,548 

106,178 

1,000  dollars 

155,621 

133,943 

120,537 

Dairy  products 

104,805 

112,274 

118,200 

98,410 

106,057 

Milk,  wholesale 

104,805 

112,274 

118,200 

98,410 

106,057 

Poultry/ eggs 

1,607,550 

1,888,758 

1,836,541 

1,851,474 

2,000,405 

Broi lers 

1,250,184 

1,469,115 

1,378,434 

1,369,830 

1,529,660 

Farm  chickens 

11,232 

13,222 

11,805 

9,568 

8,970 

Chicken  eggs 

227,355 

237,433 

260,338 

285,881 

264,974 

Turkeys 

118,656 

168,854 

185,812 

186,048 

196,650 

Other  poultry 

123 

134 

152 

147 

151 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

55,360 

67,864 

64,761 

60,265 

80,270 

Honey 

1,025 

975 

1,729 

2,005 

1,580 

Ac|uaculture 

46,551 

59,163 

55,907 

50,841 

71,203 

Catfish 

22,321 

22,752 

29,577 

19,166 

31,603 

Other  ac|uaculture 

24,230 

36,411 

26,330 

31,675 

39,600 

Other  livestock 

7,784 

7,726 

7,125 

7,370 

7,470 

All  other  livestock 

6,557 

6,649 

6,510 

7,370 

7,470 

Crops 

1,549,732 

1,496,097 

1,550,313 

1,577,632 

1,900,501 

Food  grains 

599,592 

543,790 

550,767 

537,308 

659,830 

Rice 

418,556 

351,589 

404,966 

474,522 

530,862 

Wheat 

181,036 

192,201 

145,801 

62,786 

128,968 

Feed  crops 

86,191 

105,767 

78,224 

80,955 

113,962 

Corn 

8,889 

14,958 

14,686 

15,418 

19,897 

Hay 

30,536 

29,937 

23,564 

26,051 

31,252 

Oats 

5,910 

6,219 

3,441 

1,872 

2,031 

Sorghun  grain 

40,856 

54,653 

36,533 

37,614 

60,782 

Cotton 

282,235 

286,020 

404,024 

384,443 

520,422 

Cotton  lint,  all 

241,390 

253,905 

359,565 

342,783 

465,421 

Cottonseed 

40,845 

32,115 

44,459 

41,660 

55,001 

Oi l  crops 

518,734 

510,861 

459,291 

508,013 

543,104 

Soybeans 

518,734 

510,861 

459,291 

507,845 

542,892 

Vegetables 

24,509 

15,878 

18,276 

20,315 

21,729 

Tomatoes 

13,877 

4,956 

8,624 

9,072 

6,216 

Mi sc.  vegetables 

8,668 

8,170 

8,750 

9,600 

8,000 

Fruits/nuts 

11,202 

8,038 

11,897 

15,796 

8,666 

Grapes 

2,103 

1,882 

1,637 

3,351 

2,070 

Peaches 

2,997 

602 

5,058 

2,996 

2,652 

Other  berries 

2,230 

2,772 

4,575 

6,100 

600 

Pecans 

1,452 

575 

245 

2,910 

1,571 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

22 

10 

10 

15 

31 

All  other  crops 

27,269 

25,743 

27,834 

30,802 

32,788 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


77 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

:  1989 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Other  seeds 

5,083 

3,353 

3,700 

3,500 

3,500 

Other  field  crops 

2,778 

2,343 

2,438 

3,081 

3,048 

Greenhouse/nursery 

19,408 

20,047 

21,696 

24,221 

26,240 

Floriculture 

6,108 

6,747 

8,196 

9,721 

11,740 

Ornamentals,  other 

13,300 

13,300 

13,500 

14,500 

14,500 

CALIFORNIA 

All  commodities 

16,647,043 

18,127,250 

19,205,854 

17,776,785 

18,234,014 

Livestock  and  products 

4,681,863 

5,193,010 

5,533,498 

5,254,185 

5,054,730 

Meat  animals 

1,698,724 

1,651,258 

1,860,616 

1,768,029 

1,515,734 

Cattle  and  calves 

1,616,615 

1,575,944 

1,775,817 

1,681,823 

1,422,578 

Hogs 

20,860 

21,617 

40,217 

45,224 

41,189 

Sheep  and  lambs 

61,249 

53,697 

44,582 

40,982 

51,967 

Dairy  products 

2,072,368 

2,439,057 

2,555,641 

2,439,429 

2,608,281 

Milk,  retail 

78,991 

79,851 

72,670 

70,326 

79,507 

Milk,  wholesale 

1,993,377 

2,359,206 

2,482,971 

2,369,103 

2,528,774 

Poultry/ eggs 

859,816 

1,036,282 

1,035,444 

963,388 

847,273 

Broi lers 

339,094 

361,805 

338,330 

334,358 

350,549 

Farm  chickens 

3,996 

5,864 

4,920 

2,331 

1,482 

Chicken  eggs 

297,786 

401,825 

394,771 

362,275 

277,944 

Turkeys 

200,340 

252,472 

270,522 

241,425 

194,298 

Other  poultry 

18,600 

14,316 

26,901 

22,999 

23,000 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

50,955 

66,413 

81,797 

83,339 

83,442 

Honey 

10,192 

9,330 

10,886 

17,690 

17,005 

Wool 

10,157 

10,445 

6,270 

4,010 

4,543 

Trout 

NA 

8,848 

11,148 

6,451 

6,451 

Other  livestock 

23,573 

31,950 

46,882 

50,161 

50,200 

Crops 

11,965,180 

12,934,240 

13,672,356 

12,522,600 

13,179,284 

Food  grains 

400,111 

421,718 

331,189 

285,985 

360,762 

Rice 

219,264 

237,689 

179,557 

181,432 

210,587 

Wheat 

180,847 

184,029 

151,632 

104,553 

150,175 

Feed  crops 

669,767 

762,525 

766,317 

583,376 

525,324 

Barley 

46,204 

36,053 

41,156 

20,288 

26,555 

Com 

69,898 

65,101 

61,950 

48,105 

46,176 

Hay 

544,018 

654,538 

658,693 

509,808 

449,080 

Oats 

6,868 

5,012 

4,212 

5,175 

3,513 

Cotton 

980,839 

1,082,161 

1,189,636 

912,594 

1,121,676 

Cotton  lint,  all 

854,499 

1,009,316 

1,067,497 

824,859 

1,011,019 

Upland 

853,251 

1,003,665 

1,044,998 

756,265 

899,981 

Long  staple 

1,248 

5,651 

22,499 

68,594 

111,038 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


78 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comncdity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

:  1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Cottonseed 

126,340 

72,845 

1,000  dollars 

122,139 

87,735 

110,657 

Oil  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

20,280 

35,501 

Vegetables 

3,381,085 

3,766,449 

3,778,665 

3,629,157 

3,627,824 

Beans,  dry 

95,177 

113,035 

101,308 

99,190 

71,623 

Potatoes 

141,783 

199,367 

185,479 

147,826 

131,424 

Winter 

12,560 

21,141 

31,011 

17,712 

19,309 

Spring 

65,682 

84,733 

86,667 

86,184 

71,656 

Sumner 

23,188 

40,037 

20,959 

14,274 

13,622 

Fall 

40,353 

53,456 

46,842 

29,656 

26,837 

Sweetpotatoes 

21,384 

24,215 

26,793 

25,356 

52,268 

Broccoli 

265,930 

243,917 

244,695 

215,550 

250,976 

Carrots 

170,235 

201,333 

180,184 

201,070 

208,500 

Cauliflower 

161,514 

161,058 

152,929 

145,054 

162,153 

Celery 

147,740 

184,842 

159,999 

143,751 

164,303 

Central  coast 

70,094 

94,930 

79,865 

58, 169 

86,585 

South  coast 

77,646 

89,912 

80,134 

85,582 

77,718 

Com,  sweet 

24,462 

32,409 

31,730 

31,883 

31,800 

Cucurbers 

14,699 

12,958 

13,377 

12,567 

29,337 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

20,925 

Processing 

14,699 

12,958 

13,377 

12,567 

8,412 

Lettuce,  all 

630,459 

669,895 

682,700 

606,856 

876,940 

Head 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

627,120 

Leaf 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

171,868 

Romaine 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

77,952 

Onions 

90,382 

109,671 

124,694 

130,390 

122,948 

Spring 

32,189 

34,804 

39,627 

56,880 

42,480 

Sumter,  nonstorage 

58,193 

74,867 

85,067 

73,510 

80,468 

Peppers,  chili 

9,618 

11,050 

14,402 

NA 

NA 

Spinach 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

33,690 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

28,152 

Processing 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

5,538 

Tomatoes 

660,390 

825,994 

890,259 

875,111 

749,285 

Desert 

274,721 

239,616 

273,258 

235,000 

301,920 

Processing 

385,669 

586,378 

617,001 

640,111 

447,365 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

624,444 

659,438 

711,961 

880,360 

210,000 

Honeydews 

47,435 

47,755 

54,036 

39,749 

44,847 

Casaba  melons 

8,500 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Fruits/nuts 

4,574,779 

4,727,425 

5,152,495 

4,745,421 

5,221,166 

Grapefruit 

57,123 

60,421 

61,837 

56,441 

55,436 

Fresh  pink  seedless 

20,535 

16,094 

35,528 

27,513 

19,013 

Fr.  white  seedless 

32,804 

42,048 

25,434 

28,566 

34,124 

Pr.  white  seedless 

2,090 

1,610 

414 

468 

2,052 

Lemons 

160,876 

184,276 

260,209 

217,271 

193,902 

Fresh 

155,425 

178,131 

237,803 

207,933 

179,292 

Processing 

5,451 

6,145 

22,406 

9,338 

14,610 

Oranges 

475,507 

431,959 

585,378 

258,212 

525,171 

Nav. ,  fr.  early&mid 

262,571 

213,058 

324,793 

148,583 

302,858 

Nav.,  pr.  early&mid 

1,218 

10,335 

40,812 

5,843 

13,208 

Valencias,  fresh 

186,632 

166,992 

161,468 

100,650 

202,139 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


79 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Valencias,  proc. 

25,086 

41,574 

1,000  dollars 

58,305 

3,136 

6,966 

Tangerines 

32,633 

24,435 

32,526 

28,454 

26,976 

Fresh 

31,796 

23,162 

31,827 

28,340 

26,200 

Apples 

93,287 

106,319 

114,023 

156,862 

179,139 

Fresh 

73,771 

80,053 

83,385 

121,900 

141,545 

Processing 

19,516 

26,266 

30,638 

34,962 

37,594 

Apricots 

29,613 

37,821 

36,536 

32,183 

34,321 

Avocados 

200,726 

212,940 

231,778 

190,281 

179,109 

Cherries 

20,040 

24,418 

19,610 

34,434 

38,089 

Dates 

18,795 

22,119 

21,360 

21,230 

22,037 

Figs 

19,712 

18,198 

17,273 

16,626 

17,057 

Grapes 

1,449,084 

1,695,717 

1,514,413 

1,563,423 

1,551,798 

Wine 

646,690 

745,200 

676,270 

755,800 

843,000 

Table 

277,037 

282,702 

277,012 

271,817 

231,717 

Raisins 

525,357 

667,815 

561,131 

535,806 

477,081 

Nectarines 

78,861 

87,645 

109,999 

86,457 

73,943 

Olives 

45,325 

57,441 

64,059 

36,530 

91,576 

Peaches 

177,672 

178,166 

204,198 

188,644 

194,556 

Freestone 

79,600 

79,904 

102,120 

82,914 

73,920 

Cl ingstone 

98,072 

98,262 

102,078 

105,730 

120,636 

Pears 

75,629 

86,542 

82,733 

83,232 

82,983 

Bartlett 

69,290 

80,758 

75,867 

75,624 

74,970 

Other 

6,339 

5,784 

6,866 

7,608 

8,013 

Persimnons 

7,100 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Plans  and  proves 

246,161 

242,867 

286,890 

249,665 

237,885 

Plans 

102,661 

96, 146 

134,412 

97,894 

63,033 

Praies 

143,500 

146,721 

152,478 

151,771 

174,852 

Pomegranates 

6,454 

4,906 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Kiwi  fruit 

22,420 

14,800 

14,110 

21,976 

13,340 

Strawberries 

389,830 

372,201 

427,785 

465,515 

512,517 

Other  berries 

14,671 

22,230 

35,668 

28,000 

NA 

Almonds 

600,075 

480,930 

597,990 

564,179 

670,068 

Pecans 

1,540 

1,804 

3,640 

3,036 

4,290 

Walnuts 

193,743 

245,030 

236,080 

279,720 

267,960 

Pistachios 

114,680 

63,570 

122,400 

96,250 

151,410 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

43,222 

50,670 

72,000 

66,800 

66,800 

All  other  crops 

1,958,599 

2,173,962 

2,454,054 

2,345,787 

2,287,031 

Sugarbeets 

194,510 

195,172 

180,294 

149,476 

145,803 

Alfalfa 

42,703 

42,582 

50,494 

50,445 

34,905 

Other  seeds 

4,613 

3,544 

8,882 

36,007 

36,025 

Other  field  crops 

46,858 

63,514 

151,401 

59,174 

59,200 

Greenhouse/nursery 

1,547,715 

1,735,848 

1,922,560 

1,915,547 

1,882,421 

Floriculture 

608,558 

663,640 

719,975 

759,269 

686,035 

Ornamentals,  other 

939,157 

1,072,208 

1,202,585 

1,156,278 

1,196,386 

Mushrooms 

118,045 

133,302 

140,423 

135,138 

128,677 

COLORADO 

All  comnodities 

3,704,411 

3,967,549 

4,218,122 

3,762,245 

4,038,389 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


80 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Livestock  and  products 

2,665,774 

2,648,577 

3,072,723 

2,663,256 

2,955,204 

Meat  animals 

2,365,793 

2,315,595 

2,751,786 

2,347,531 

2,643,316 

Cattle  and  calves 

2,285,961 

2,232,584 

2,653,763 

2,244,332 

2,525,956 

Hogs 

34,973 

39,531 

52,848 

67,741 

73,382 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

44,859 

43,480 

45,175 

35,458 

43,978 

Dairy  products 

160,693 

183,434 

188,451 

166,156 

189,386 

Milk,  retail 

8,233 

8,651 

8,651 

8,930 

12,372 

Milk,  wholesale 

152,460 

174,783 

179,800 

157,226 

177,014 

Poultry/ eggs 

114,235 

121,092 

107,818 

125,267 

95,746 

Farm  chickens 

1,029 

1,828 

1,123 

1,099 

896 

Chicken  eggs 

35,933 

52,187 

51,089 

53,108 

42,827 

Other  poultry 

52 

50 

60 

80 

90 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

25,053 

28,456 

24,668 

24,302 

26,756 

Honey 

2,191 

1,782 

2,323 

2,489 

2,424 

Wool 

8,862 

8,501 

4,046 

2,976 

4,406 

Aquaculture 

NA 

1,943 

2,167 

2,370 

2,370 

All  other  livestock 

14,000 

15,000 

15,500 

16,000 

17,000 

Crops 

1,038,637 

1,318,972 

1,145,399 

1,098,989 

1,083,185 

Food  grains 

265,881 

278,415 

189,939 

238,121 

237,289 

Uheat 

265,674 

278,287 

189,835 

238,011 

237,201 

Feed  crops 

409,995 

537,989 

474,260 

473,563 

443,944 

Barley 

34,535 

37,874 

28,907 

32,180 

22,889 

Com 

188,785 

310,672 

268,964 

259,908 

268,494 

Hay 

167,973 

163,452 

164,226 

160,824 

135,936 

Oats 

3,811 

2,797 

1,658 

1,445 

1,840 

Sorghum  grain 

14,891 

23,194 

10,505 

19,206 

14,785 

Oil  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

5,812 

7,721 

Sunflower 

NA 

NA 

NA 

5,589 

7,447 

Vegetables 

211,193 

343,153 

323,513 

228,122 

233,617 

Beans,  dry 

48,453 

101,499 

82,269 

49,732 

44,042 

Potatoes 

60,853 

140,236 

152,771 

89,911 

67,110 

Sumner 

9,596 

12,300 

13,573 

9,976 

4,698 

Fall 

51,257 

127,936 

139,198 

79,935 

62,412 

Carrots 

4,234 

4,442 

3,412 

4,800 

10,059 

Com,  sweet 

4,738 

5,394 

6,867 

5,456 

4,070 

Cucurbers 

2,002 

1,478 

1,088 

749 

1,397 

Lettuce 

6,891 

9,537 

12,648 

6,638 

16,116 

Onions 

71,125 

68,724 

52,224 

59,536 

77,094 

Spinach 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

6,786 

Misc.  vegetables 

12,000 

11,500 

12,000 

11,000 

3,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


81 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Fruits/nuts 

12,914 

9,729 

12,200 

12,636 

16,407 

Apples 

7,030 

7,866 

4,909 

9,622 

8,738 

Fresh 

6,086 

6,906 

4,237 

8,198 

6,952 

Processing 

944 

960 

672 

1,424 

1,786 

Peaches 

4,175 

NA 

5,696 

646 

5,165 

Pears 

928 

1,348 

841 

925 

1,137 

Other  berries 

70 

65 

68 

80 

70 

Mi sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

510 

400 

500 

700 

750 

All  other  crops 

138,654 

149,686 

145,487 

140,735 

144,207 

Sugarbeets 

37,048 

39,854 

37,571 

38,407 

37,969 

Other  seeds 

990 

960 

980 

990 

950 

Other  field  crops 

16,000 

15,000 

18,000 

13,500 

14,000 

Greenhouse/nursery 

76,536 

84,669 

79,085 

77,851 

81,134 

Floriculture 

45,736 

53,169 

47,085 

45,351 

48,134 

Ornamentals,  other 

30,800 

31,500 

32,000 

32,500 

33,000 

CONNECTICUT 

All  conmodities 

409,508 

427,460 

473,890 

472,178 

488,746 

Livestock  and  products 

183,276 

186,367 

223,317 

208,221 

239,633 

Meat  animals 

16,873 

15,534 

16,467 

15,529 

16,564 

Cattle  and  calves 

15,854 

14,548 

15,095 

14,116 

15,167 

Dairy  products 

72,752 

75,537 

76,091 

70,349 

76,319 

Milk,  retail 

4,772 

4,037 

3,326 

2,679 

2,679 

Milk,  wholesale 

67,980 

71,500 

72,765 

67,670 

73,640 

Poultry/ eggs 

87,127 

88,769 

97,594 

89, 142 

89,605 

Chicken  eggs 

82,280 

83,282 

90,895 

82,073 

75,905 

Other  poultry 

3,742 

3,650 

5,777 

6,216 

11,485 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

6,524 

6,527 

33,165 

33,201 

57,145 

Aquaculture 

NA 

NA 

25,740 

25,790 

49,800 

Other  livestock 

6,400 

6,400 

7,260 

7,295 

7,273 

Crops 

226,232 

241,093 

250,573 

263,957 

249,113 

Feed  crops 

8,016 

7,656 

8,196 

7,899 

7,763 

Hay 

8,016 

7,656 

8,196 

7,899 

7,763 

Tobacco 

34,808 

39,295 

46,399 

49,315 

32,894 

Vegetables 

17,890 

18,558 

21,314 

18,587 

17,324 

Com,  sweet 

5,095 

5,888 

5,829 

4,555 

4,824 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

12,000 

12,000 

15,000 

13,500 

12,500 

Fruits/nuts 

11,068 

13,445 

14,246 

16,083 

16,867 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


82 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Apples 

6,374 

8,394 

6,970 

8,223 

7,776 

Fresh 

5,522 

7,606 

6,330 

7,607 

7,134 

Peaches 

1,595 

1,900 

1,645 

1,632 

1,850 

Other  berries 

2,240 

2,325 

4,825 

5,095 

5,800 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

27 

228 

228 

413 

628 

All  other  crops 

154,450 

162,139 

160,418 

172,073 

174,265 

Other  field  crops 

6,206 

6,600 

4,375 

4,400 

5,497 

Greenhouse/nursery 

127,657 

132,814 

132,543 

143,382 

143,006 

Floriculture 

24,618 

27,814 

24,543 

35,382 

35,006 

Ornamentals,  other 

103,039 

105,000 

108,000 

108,000 

108,000 

DELAUARE 

All  conmodities 

595,379 

661,640 

635,845 

621,954 

635,762 

Livestock  and  products 

443,537 

502,608 

459,694 

438,170 

451,326 

Meat  animals 

12,930 

8,476 

16,116 

10,085 

11,035 

Cattle  and  calves 

3,308 

2,476 

9,228 

4,604 

5,836 

Hogs 

9,622 

6,000 

6,888 

5,440 

5,191 

Dairy  products 

17,290 

18,212 

18,029 

16,770 

19,880 

Milk,  wholesale 

17,290 

18,212 

18,029 

16,770 

19,880 

Poultry/eggs 

410,398 

472,910 

422,435 

408,090 

417,088 

Broi lers 

396,855 

458,490 

405,475 

391,999 

401,798 

Chicken  eggs 

12,897 

13,505 

16,380 

15,538 

14,623 

Other  poultry 

22 

22 

35 

40 

42 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

2,919 

3,010 

3,114 

3,225 

3,323 

Other  livestock 

2,900 

3,000 

3,100 

3,200 

3,300 

Crops 

151,842 

159,032 

176,151 

183,784 

184,436 

Food  grains 

10,948 

11,300 

7,866 

8,890 

11,988 

Wheat 

10,770 

11,157 

7,860 

8,890 

11,988 

Feed  crops 

24,268 

29,886 

40,127 

42,485 

41,748 

Barley 

3,393 

3,589 

2,965 

3,220 

3,836 

Com 

19,710 

24,921 

35,920 

38,039 

36,694 

Hay 

1,165 

1,376 

1,242 

1,226 

1,218 

Oi  l  crops 

41,304 

40,716 

41,380 

44,952 

38,582 

Soybeans 

41,304 

40,716 

41,380 

44,899 

38,507 

Vegetables 

36,502 

38,322 

43,969 

40,139 

43,344 

Potatoes 

16,147 

13,750 

15,736 

9,840 

10,074 

Corn,  sweet 

1,821 

2,363 

2,517 

2,703 

2,837 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

14,200 

16,100 

17,300 

21,890 

17,955 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


83 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

:  1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Fruits/nuts 

3,499 

2,380 

2,582 

3,963 

3,251 

Apples 

2,309 

1,725 

1,957 

2,688 

2,096 

Other  berries 

450 

440 

460 

337 

380 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

80 

80 

82 

83 

85 

All  other  crops 

35,321 

36,428 

40,227 

43,355 

45,523 

Other  seeds 

20 

20 

21 

22 

23 

Other  field  crops 

150 

160 

2,106 

4,850 

6,770 

Greenh ouse/nurse  ry 

31,500 

32,000 

33,000 

34,000 

35,000 

Mushrooms 

3,651 

4,248 

5,100 

4,483 

3,730 

FLORIDA 

All  commodities 

5,839,404 

6,240,459 

5,717,193 

6,124,957 

6,144,508 

Livestock  and  products 

1,150,859 

1,215,387 

1,260,673 

1,171,626 

1,159,595 

Meat  animals 

410,195 

375,678 

411,119 

380,784 

356,337 

Cattle  and  calves 

391,171 

356,668 

390,561 

363,351 

343,168 

Hogs 

19,024 

19,010 

20,558 

17,304 

13,126 

Dairy  products 

355,680 

387,960 

421,007 

372,947 

401,700 

Milk,  wholesale 

355,680 

387,960 

421,007 

372,947 

401,700 

Poultry/ eggs 

254,036 

308,652 

288,758 

277,068 

259,678 

Broi lers 

156,585 

181,636 

152,012 

151,704 

164,856 

Farm  chickens 

2,400 

3,318 

2,486 

3,764 

3,028 

Chicken  eggs 

94,461 

123,078 

133,610 

120,930 

91,104 

Other  poultry 

590 

620 

650 

670 

690 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

130,948 

143,097 

139,789 

140,827 

141,880 

Honey 

12,852 

7,200 

10,032 

9,898 

12,126 

Aquaculture 

NA 

1,808 

2,474 

1,967 

1,719 

Other  livestock 

118,096 

134,089 

127,283 

128,953 

128,023 

Crops 

4,688,545 

5,025,072 

4,456,520 

4,953,331 

4,984,913 

Food  grains 

7,381 

6,788 

5,178 

1,893 

2,376 

Wheat 

7,381 

6,788 

5,178 

1,893 

2,376 

Feed  crops 

14,562 

16,370 

16,336 

17,928 

22,719 

Com 

9,514 

11,095 

11,416 

10,808 

13,448 

Hay 

5,048 

5,275 

4,920 

7,120 

9,271 

Cotton 

9,956 

11,775 

15,528 

18,688 

21,837 

Cotton  lint,  all 

8,661 

10,656 

13,648 

16,867 

19,384 

Cottonseed 

1,295 

1,119 

1,880 

1,821 

2,453 

Tobacco 

27,673 

30,327 

32,020 

26,392 

31,729 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


84 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  ccmnodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Oi  l  crops 

82,757 

74,475 

80,840 

80,559 

64,843 

Peanuts 

61,493 

55,871 

69,936 

73,551 

57,886 

Soybeans 

21,264 

18,604 

10,904 

6,962 

6,906 

Vegetables 

1,186,913 

1,543,965 

1,238,950 

1,558,786 

1,658,050 

Potatoes 

45,966 

128,323 

139,914 

164,885 

92,890 

Winter 

14,957 

34,871 

40,950 

43,274 

35,640 

Spring 

27,909 

64,700 

56,587 

86,184 

30,300 

Other 

3,100 

28,752 

42,377 

35,427 

26,950 

Beans,  snap,  fresh 

53,897 

52,977 

40,948 

50,495 

69,319 

Cabbage 

29,559 

30,433 

38,575 

28,731 

27,023 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

26,903 

Carrots 

13,486 

15,040 

17,604 

22,563 

20,880 

Celery 

49,848 

52,456 

36,457 

37,607 

35,498 

Com,  sweet 

72,629 

88,201 

94,848 

91,674 

73,149 

Cucirrbers 

65,578 

67,060 

67,254 

83,655 

76,516 

Fresh 

54,778 

61,837 

61,873 

78,489 

69,166 

Processing 

10,800 

5,223 

5,381 

5,166 

7,350 

Lettuce,  all 

40,600 

36,155 

18,747 

18,913 

20,275 

Head 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

16,103 

Leaf 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

1,256 

Romaine 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,916 

Eggplant,  all 

10,253 

11,413 

13,537 

12,974 

17,042 

Escarole 

12,619 

9,607 

7,945 

10,633 

6,755 

Peppers,  green 

93,044 

110,181 

111,246 

173,628 

186,412 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

186,412 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

475,020 

739,948 

414,528 

570,801 

786,374 

Radi shes 

18,685 

19,987 

28,497 

35,269 

21,578 

Squash 

40,144 

35,958 

36,598 

50,221 

41,759 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

101,610 

98,570 

106,233 

124,984 

135,306 

Watermelons 

62,556 

45,050 

64,350 

80,767 

62,550 

Fruits/nuts 

1,931,952 

1,894,515 

1,596,758 

1,693,632 

1,607,117 

Grapefruit 

384,320 

344,063 

274,472 

343,091 

324,638 

Fresh  pink  seedless 

130,666 

138,589 

118,876 

175,790 

140,625 

Proc.  pink  seedless 

37,097 

20,919 

25,213 

17,957 

29,693 

Fr.  white  seedless 

64,617 

75,476 

45,534 

89,159 

72,026 

Pr.  white  seedless 

132,212 

98,857 

73,607 

52,572 

76,145 

Processing,  other 

19,728 

10,222 

11,242 

7,613 

6,149 

Lemons 

4,500 

4,240 

2,767 

5,072 

2,637 

Limes 

20,778 

21,187 

28,286 

28,001 

11,177 

Fresh 

19,827 

19,490 

26,705 

26,391 

9,941 

Processing 

951 

1,697 

1,581 

1,610 

1,236 

Oranges 

1,321,335 

1,326,833 

1,125,565 

1,120,613 

1,075,833 

Nav.,  fr.  early&mid 

60,429 

52,153 

56,980 

85,459 

51,515 

Nav.,  pr.  early&mid 

611,202 

620,757 

687,993 

472,174 

423,103 

Valencias,  fresh 

37,230 

28,707 

16,614 

68,093 

70,510 

Valencias,  proc. 

586,425 

599,934 

351,670 

475,324 

509,096 

Temple,  fresh 

12,154 

7,844 

3,484 

8,876 

10,228 

Temple,  proc. 

13,895 

17,438 

8,824 

10,687 

11,381 

Tange l os 

35,203 

24,776 

21,990 

23,333 

17,339 

Fresh 

14,297 

12,799 

12,061 

15,010 

11,771 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


85 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  cornnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Processing 

20,906 

11,977 

1,000  dollars 

9,929 

8,323 

5,568 

Tangerines 

51,632 

42,779 

28,729 

47,177 

47,125 

Fresh 

44,829 

34,602 

24,372 

43,070 

43,608 

Processing 

6,803 

8,177 

4,357 

4,107 

3,517 

K- early  citrus  2/ 

2,437 

1,578 

1,110 

810 

1,836 

Avocados 

11,064 

11,291 

12,812 

13,455 

7,591 

Mangos 

5,250 

5,200 

4,725 

6,150 

4,280 

Strawberries 

73,875 

92,188 

75,324 

84,876 

94,752 

Blueberries 

5,000 

3,720 

3,720 

2,719 

3,439 

Other  berries 

90 

100 

100 

100 

100 

Pecans 

3,036 

3,650 

3,480 

3,325 

3,770 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

13,432 

12,910 

13,678 

14,910 

12,600 

All  other  crops 

1,427,351 

1,446,857 

1,470,910 

1,555,453 

1,576,242 

Cane  for  sugar 

419,697 

427,945 

420,962 

484,117 

478,415 

Other  seeds 

3,500 

3,600 

3,600 

3,600 

3,600 

Other  field  crops 

19,924 

21,921 

20,443 

27,550 

31 ,339 

Greenhouse/nursery 

954,794 

960,524 

991,249 

1,003,771 

1,024,324 

Floriculture 

504,794 

505,524 

531,249 

528,771 

549,324 

Ornamentals,  other 

450,000 

455,000 

460,000 

475,000 

475,000 

GEORGIA 

All  cornnodities 

3,582,4 87 

3,912,176 

3,857,804 

3,933,768 

4,073,125 

Livestock  and  products 

2,027,735 

2,281,478 

2,269,869 

2,161,743 

2,309,283 

Meat  animals 

476,600 

475,916 

510,686 

482,318 

459,881 

Cattle  and  calves 

291,782 

281,130 

272,524 

265,818 

287,492 

Hogs 

184,818 

194,786 

238,162 

216,082 

172,228 

Dairy  products 

175,890 

196,300 

227,379 

199,073 

229,860 

Milk,  retail 

NA 

NA 

3,019 

3,163 

2,605 

Milk,  wholesale 

175,890 

196,300 

224,360 

195,910 

227,255 

Poultry/ eggs 

1,344,62 2 

1,577,137 

1,495,940 

1,447,981 

1,578,285 

Broi lers 

1,071,135 

1,250,425 

1,165,538 

1,125,755 

1,268,096 

Farm  chickens 

9,391 

14,934 

10,338 

6,983 

11,022 

Chicken  eggs 

230,445 

284,243 

288,951 

289,601 

269,654 

Turkeys 

29,736 

23,285 

25,748 

20,879 

24,596 

Other  poultry 

3,915 

4,250 

5,365 

4,763 

4,917 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

30,623 

32,125 

35,864 

32,371 

41,257 

Honey 

2,546 

1,754 

3,275 

2,699 

3,086 

All  other  livestock 

26,392 

24,839 

28,518 

25,641 

33,514 

Crops 

1,554,752 

1,630,698 

1,587,935 

1,772,025 

1,763,842 

Food  grains 

64,009 

81,130 

62,022 

46,364 

47,814 

Rye 

2,201 

1,978 

1,756 

1,850 

2,192 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


86 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988  : 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Wheat 

61,808 

79,152 

1,000  dollars 

60,266 

44,514 

45,622 

Feed  crops 

104,805 

135,936 

122,055 

127,214 

152,043 

Corn 

69,144 

93,414 

91,568 

94,520 

118,272 

Hay 

29,891 

35,737 

26,900 

28,121 

28,306 

Oats 

3,462 

4,518 

1,858 

1,616 

2,401 

Sorghun  grain 

2,308 

2,267 

1,729 

2,957 

3,064 

Cotton 

111,884 

132,308 

146,662 

156,693 

212,632 

Cotton  lint,  all 

99,588 

122,650 

133,367 

145,614 

195,347 

Cottonseed 

12,296 

9,658 

13,295 

11,079 

17,285 

Tobacco 

138,841 

146,221 

168,171 

142,635 

170,101 

Oi  l  crops 

660,745 

655,834 

540,272 

710,266 

649,831 

Peanuts 

504,434 

506,763 

455,455 

630,680 

551,601 

Soybeans 

156,311 

149,071 

84,817 

77,399 

96,405 

Vegetables 

169,065 

181,124 

227,383 

249,130 

245,303 

Sweetpotatoes 

14,918 

12,337 

4,657 

7,241 

8,112 

Beans,  green  lima 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

4,428 

Beans,  snap,  fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

13,224 

Corn,  sweet 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

13,563 

Onions 

NA 

17,272 

35,381 

20,790 

35,204 

Tomatoes 

11,641 

12,960 

20,650 

33,703 

29,872 

Hi  sc.  vegetables 

140,875 

135,409 

163,927 

184,747 

100,505 

Fruits/nuts 

106,440 

88,033 

121,173 

146,268 

89,978 

Apples 

4,200 

3,348 

2,778 

4,080 

5,112 

Grapes 

2,278 

2,110 

2,252 

2,432 

2,630 

Peaches 

26,498 

23,260 

36,732 

33,712 

26,714 

Blueberries 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

8,130 

Other  berries 

5,685 

1,955 

2,559 

3,914 

332 

Pecans 

65,890 

55,852 

74,560 

99,860 

45,060 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,889 

1,508 

2,292 

2,270 

2,000 

All  other  crops 

198,963 

210,112 

200,197 

193,455 

196,140 

Other  seeds 

4,765 

4,385 

4,605 

4,997 

4,744 

Other  field  crops 

3,349 

4,665 

5,046 

3,519 

3,497 

Greenhouse/nursery 

184,800 

194,119 

183,619 

179,358 

183,963 

Floriculture 

26,949 

31,959 

35,105 

36,756 

34,150 

Ornamentals,  other 

157,851 

162,160 

148,514 

142,602 

149,813 

HAUAII 

All  comnodities 

573,846 

585,002 

600,049 

561,873 

564,151 

Livestock  and  products 

88,669 

91,787 

86,416 

87,601 

88,429 

Meat  animals 

36,365 

39,394 

35,987 

36,576 

35,842 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


87 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Cattle  and  calves 

27,984 

31,483 

1,000  dollars 

28,735 

29,787 

29,235 

Hogs 

8,381 

7,911 

7,252 

6,463 

6,521 

Dairy  products 

32,190 

31,588 

28,732 

30,328 

32,495 

Milk,  wholesale 

32,190 

31,588 

28,732 

30,328 

32,495 

Poultry/eggs 

18,921 

19,758 

20,459 

19,392 

18,841 

Broi lers 

4,938 

4,628 

4,129 

3,214 

2,807 

Chicken  eggs 

13,801 

14,956 

16,115 

15,996 

15,846 

Other  poultry 

10 

10 

10 

10 

10 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

1,193 

1,047 

1,238 

1,305 

1,251 

Other  livestock 

500 

500 

500 

526 

483 

Crops 

485,177 

493,215 

513,633 

474,272 

475,722 

Vegetables 

32,269 

34,202 

37,427 

33,291 

30,396 

Taro 

1,904 

1,996 

2,262 

2,795 

2,881 

Lettuce 

1,638 

1,287 

1,386 

1,290 

1,144 

Tomatoes 

3,395 

3,047 

2,990 

3,120 

2,976 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

25,332 

27,872 

30,789 

26,086 

17,603 

Fruits/nuts 

175,528 

178,809 

178,824 

172,975 

163,262 

Pineapples 

107,402 

98,310 

106,365 

107,775 

102,100 

Coffee 

6,600 

12,480 

7,290 

6,210 

5,400 

Bananas 

4,356 

4,344 

4,294 

4,674 

4,428 

Papayas 

12,354 

14,380 

14,805 

16,228 

14,415 

Macadam i a  nuts 

40,950 

44,945 

41,000 

34,650 

32,640 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

3,866 

4,350 

4,655 

989 

2,000 

All  other  crops 

277,380 

280,204 

297,382 

268,006 

282,064 

Cane  for  sugar 

209,926 

210,335 

219,843 

181,224 

195,971 

Other  seeds 

6,440 

6,660 

6,680 

4,850 

6,170 

Other  field  crops 

1,333 

834 

842 

904 

1,000 

Greenhouse/nursery 

59,551 

62,206 

69,836 

80,863 

78,779 

Floriculture 

38,583 

44,637 

43,220 

49,863 

45,779 

Ornamentals,  other 

20,968 

17,569 

26,616 

31,000 

33,000 

IDAHO 

All  commodities 

2,342,871 

2,783,782 

2,800,678 

2,651,430 

2,815,512 

Livestock  and  products 

1,039,081 

1,072,770 

1,137,418 

1,065,192 

1,172,967 

Meat  animals 

687,901 

685,522 

719,565 

681,177 

743,632 

Cattle  and  calves 

659,538 

661,075 

696,884 

659,078 

721,427 

Hogs 

10,420 

9,213 

11,050 

10,558 

8,318 

Sheep  and  lambs 

17,943 

15,234 

11,631 

11,541 

13,887 

Dairy  products 

288,960 

322,260 

354,410 

318,570 

370,800 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


88 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Milk,  wholesale 

288,960 

322,260 

354,410 

318,570 

370,800 

Poultry/ eggs 

8,695 

15,407 

12,456 

12,443 

11,260 

Chicken  eggs 

8,517 

15,208 

12,326 

12,332 

11,164 

Other  poultry 

46 

49 

52 

54 

55 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

53,525 

49,581 

50,987 

53,002 

47,275 

Honey 

2,552 

3,478 

2,688 

3,478 

3,649 

Wool 

3,456 

3,289 

1,804 

1,324 

1,718 

All  other  livestock 

47,517 

7,276 

8,075 

8,399 

8,746 

Crops 

1,303,790 

1,711,012 

1,663,260 

1,586,238 

1,642,545 

Food  grains 

243,236 

324,307 

258,460 

290,610 

344,854 

Wheat 

243,236 

324,307 

258,460 

290,610 

344,854 

Feed  crops 

233,717 

282,350 

288,041 

289,875 

277,479 

Barley 

107,407 

128,224 

135,596 

142,610 

143,054 

Com 

11,981 

6,886 

10,087 

10,423 

12,218 

Hay 

110,160 

143,117 

140,303 

134,861 

120,725 

Oats 

4,169 

4,123 

2,055 

1,981 

1,482 

Oil  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,196 

2,889 

Vegetables 

509,476 

786,286 

762,082 

655,935 

667,805 

Beans,  dry 

50,940 

83,620 

92,574 

46,797 

35,998 

Peas,  dry 

19,037 

22,598 

19,738 

22,471 

14,465 

Dry,  edible 

11,656 

12,302 

9,317 

11,963 

8,181 

Wrinkled  seed 

6,307 

8,712 

8,642 

8,818 

5,360 

Austrian  winter 

1,074 

1,584 

1,779 

1,690 

924 

Lentils  (beans) 

5,053 

9,234 

6,496 

9,688 

12,054 

Potatoes 

378,370 

558,025 

595,896 

514,391 

526,480 

Com,  sweet 

8,829 

10,538 

10,485 

11,824 

8,737 

Onions 

42,560 

48,068 

29,982 

42,126 

61,997 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

1,057 

49,581 

1,166 

1,213 

1,249 

Fruits/nuts 

27,508 

21,950 

27,565 

20,974 

21,220 

Apples 

18,395 

13,113 

20,354 

18,167 

14,691 

Fresh 

16,387 

10,951 

16,240 

13,539 

12,746 

Processing 

2,008 

2,162 

4,114 

4,628 

1,945 

Cherries 

2,056 

1,903 

1,720 

203 

1,073 

Peaches 

2,914 

1,498 

890 

NA 

1,372 

Plums  and  prirtes 

1,585 

2,677 

1,703 

1,149 

1,168 

Other  berries 

193 

208 

219 

228 

245 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

2,365 

2,551 

2,679 

1,227 

2,671 

All  other  crops 

289,853 

296,119 

327,112 

326,648 

328,298 

Sugarbeets 

176,837 

176,057 

201 ,661 

194,181 

187,670 

Other  seeds 

53,119 

55,843 

55,634 

55,484 

57,149 

Hops 

4,273 

5,154 

6,075 

8,635 

9,595 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


89 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Mint 

12,165 

13,050 

1,000  dollars 

15,571 

18,237 

18,818 

Pepper-mi  nt 

9,789 

10,725 

11,673 

13,370 

14,423 

Spearmint 

2,376 

2,325 

3,898 

4,867 

4,395 

Other  field  crops 

1,134 

1,184 

1,256 

902 

955 

Greenhouse/nursery 

41,997 

44,349 

46,467 

48,750 

53,638 

ILLINOIS 

All  comnodities 

6,281,678 

6,981,698 

7,767,202 

7,534,410 

7,633,692 

Livestock  and  products 

2,255,346 

2,253,825 

2,451,566 

2,353,045 

2,202,346 

Meat  animals 

1,839,728 

1,783,526 

1,987,611 

1,921,557 

1,770,459 

Cattle  and  calves 

810,081 

791,598 

773,994 

739,857 

719,720 

Hogs 

1,023,498 

984,086 

1,206,275 

1,174,896 

1,041,579 

Sheep  and  larrbs 

6,149 

7,842 

7,342 

6,804 

9,160 

Dairy  products 

338,062 

368,288 

359,394 

338,550 

352,450 

Milk,  wholesale 

338,062 

368,288 

359,394 

338,550 

352,450 

Poultry/eggs 

54,435 

79,546 

85,821 

75,513 

62,539 

Chicken  eggs 

37,050 

43,219 

42,954 

47,529 

32,040 

Turkeys 

15,683 

34,243 

41,398 

26,994 

29,274 

Other  poultry 

750 

750 

750 

750 

750 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

23,121 

22,465 

18,740 

17,425 

16,898 

Other  livestock 

20,744 

20,744 

17,578 

16,266 

15,916 

Mink  pelts 

6,334 

6,334 

3,068 

1,756 

1,406 

All  other  livestock 

14,410 

14,410 

14,510 

14,510 

14,510 

Crops 

4,026,332 

4,727,873 

5,315,636 

5,181,365 

5,431,346 

Food  grains 

217,875 

395,759 

230,019 

145,300 

199,188 

Wheat 

217,534 

395,210 

229,716 

145,003 

198,614 

Feed  crops 

1,636,495 

2,168,404 

2,765,940 

2,795,417 

2,876,334 

Com 

1,558,337 

2,072,369 

2,691,187 

2,728,084 

2,779,942 

Hay 

56,295 

69,403 

47,043 

41,011 

60,263 

Oats 

8,412 

10,746 

6,277 

2,494 

4,409 

Sorghun  grain 

13,451 

15,886 

21,433 

23,828 

31,720 

Oi l  crops 

1,907,584 

1,865,731 

2,023,278 

1,911,851 

2,027,033 

Soybeans 

1,907,584 

1,865,731 

2,023,278 

1,910,932 

2,025,857 

Vegetables 

51,749 

81,489 

74,277 

86,964 

79,950 

Potatoes 

3,565 

4,991 

4,256 

5,494 

7,194 

Com,  sweet 

13,737 

21,677 

20,414 

30,445 

24,813 

Fresh 

5,410 

8,209 

5,681 

11,041 

9,074 

Processing 

8,327 

13,468 

14,733 

19,404 

15,739 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

22,500 

25,000 

25,000 

25,000 

23,600 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


90 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Fruits/nuts 

19,290 

17,443 

1,000  dollars 

13,228 

21,733 

21 ,659 

Apples 

12,110 

11,568 

10,125 

12,298 

13,691 

Fresh 

10,543 

9,945 

9,297 

10,573 

12,170 

Processing 

1,567 

1,623 

828 

1,725 

1,521 

Peaches 

4,680 

3,375 

103 

6,435 

4,968 

Other  berries 

2,500 

2,500 

3,000 

3,000 

3,000 

All  other  crops 

193,339 

199,047 

208,894 

220,100 

227,182 

Other  seeds 

1,200 

1,200 

1,200 

1,200 

1,200 

Other  field  crops 

8,800 

14,400 

13,300 

13,300 

13,300 

Greenhouse/nursery 

153,630 

150,902 

160,861 

169,974 

174,497 

Floriculture 

53,630 

50,902 

60,861 

69,974 

74,497 

Ornamentals,  other 

100,000 

100,000 

100,000 

100,000 

100,000 

INDIANA 

All  commodities 

4,036,547 

4,288,266 

4,907,626 

4,500,353 

4,505,292 

Livestock  and  products 

1,743,800 

1,825,866 

2,039,532 

1,917,108 

1,821,443 

Meat  animals 

1,069,647 

1,016,592 

1,222,921 

1,152,670 

1,056,636 

Cattle  and  calves 

349,121 

304,420 

334,125 

322,946 

313,162 

Hogs 

717,189 

708,401 

885,696 

826,421 

739,184 

Sheep  and  lambs 

3,337 

3,771 

3,100 

3,303 

4,290 

Dairy  products 

269,862 

294,840 

313,866 

270,435 

300,979 

Milk,  wholesale 

269,862 

294,840 

313,866 

270,435 

300,979 

Poultry/ eggs 

395,698 

506,386 

494,098 

484,281 

452,310 

Farm  chickens 

4,039 

6,705 

3,949 

1,219 

3,906 

Chicken  eggs 

204,125 

281,058 

284,501 

264,941 

211,751 

Turkeys 

107,158 

125,928 

120,834 

134,190 

146,824 

Other  poultry 

55,790 

62,170 

57,550 

55,750 

59,365 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

8,593 

8,048 

8,647 

9,722 

11,518 

All  other  livestock 

6,423 

6,470 

7,318 

8,780 

10,895 

Crops 

2,292,747 

2,462,400 

2,868,094 

2,583,245 

2,683,849 

Food  grains 

115,153 

192,293 

139,838 

82,512 

73,976 

VJheat 

114,791 

192,008 

139,659 

82,371 

73,764 

Feed  crops 

943,808 

1,145,405 

1,472,399 

1,267,708 

1,317,492 

Com 

896,278 

1,098,011 

1,439,548 

1,234,805 

1,281,792 

Hay 

43,868 

42,406 

30,505 

31,131 

34,194 

Oats 

3,662 

4,988 

2,346 

1,772 

1,506 

Tobacco 

15,449 

20,565 

24,872 

30,991 

35,187 

Oi l  crops 

1,028,004 

870,315 

987,201 

962,151 

1,011,233 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


91 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Soybeans 

1,028,004 

870,315 

987,201 

961,840 

1,011,096 

Vegetables 

66,407 

83,849 

84,798 

78,817 

67,695 

Potatoes 

5,813 

14,543 

6,903 

5,680 

5,898 

Suimer 

1,353 

7,776 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Fall 

4,460 

6,767 

6,903 

5,680 

5,898 

Beans,  snap 

3,587 

3,350 

3,756 

1,170 

1,400 

Cucurbers 

1,687 

2,103 

2,465 

1,610 

1,485 

Tomatoes 

17,583 

18,306 

22,888 

25,336 

18,462 

Fresh 

4,950 

5,859 

6,615 

5,583 

5,460 

Processing 

12,633 

12,447 

16,273 

19,753 

13,002 

Mi sc.  vegetables 

36,981 

44,331 

47,912 

44,276 

29,615 

Fruits/nuts 

13,507 

20,541 

18,418 

19,533 

23,812 

Apples 

7,621 

13,809 

11,576 

11,100 

13,046 

Fresh 

7,155 

13,187 

10,988 

10,011 

11,832 

Peaches 

927 

1,288 

273 

1,822 

2,658 

Other  berries 

4,595 

5,055 

6,146 

6,176 

5,883 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

364 

389 

423 

435 

480 

All  other  crops 

110,419 

129,432 

140,568 

141,533 

154,454 

Other  seeds 

475 

523 

507 

453 

448 

Mint 

6,629 

11,532 

12,306 

13,295 

14,564 

Peppermi nt 

5,277 

8,760 

9,671 

9,672 

10,764 

Spearmint 

1,352 

2,772 

2,635 

3,623 

3,800 

Other  field  crops 

21,737 

27,544 

30,714 

26,546 

37,305 

Greenhouse/nursery 

68,075 

76,450 

84,005 

89,287 

91,510 

Floriculture 

31,711 

36,449 

40,005 

43,262 

42,230 

Ornamentals,  other 

36,364 

40,001 

44,000 

46,025 

49,280 

IOUA 

All  comnodities 

8,792,428 

9,048,625 

10,273,202 

10,249,590 

10,329,712 

Livestock  and  products 

5,048,272 

5,293,376 

5,862,068 

5,720,436 

5,614,088 

Meat  animals 

4,411,844 

4,548,199 

5,079,331 

4,999,261 

4,835,184 

Cattle  and  calves 

1,978,163 

2,104,638 

2,065,525 

2,057,448 

2,070,736 

Hogs 

2,407,457 

2,420,996 

2,989,051 

2,916,499 

2,740,885 

Sheep  and  lambs 

26,224 

22,565 

24,755 

25,314 

23,563 

Dairy  products 

461,380 

537,240 

549,290 

482,664 

542,750 

Milk,  viiolesale 

461,380 

537,240 

549,290 

482,664 

542,750 

Poultry/ eggs 

156,044 

189,019 

218,332 

224,362 

221,595 

Broi lers 

8,352 

11,844 

20,261 

27,495 

27,999 

Farm  chickens 

1,796 

3,069 

1,470 

744 

1,256 

Chicken  eggs 

64,655 

95,052 

101,276 

99,243 

95,282 

Turkeys 

74,880 

72,618 

88,889 

90,480 

90,558 

Other  poultry 

6,361 

6,436 

6,436 

6,400 

6,500 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


92 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  caimodity 

1988 

:  1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

19,004 

18,918 

15,115 

14,149 

14,559 

Honey 

2,971 

2,714 

2,003 

2,354 

2,257 

Wool 

2,739 

2,498 

1,163 

662 

79  7 

Other  livestock 

13,294 

13,706 

11,949 

11,133 

11,505 

Mink  pelts 

4,974 

4,974 

3,188 

2,333 

2,505 

All  other  livestock 

8,320 

8,732 

8,761 

8,800 

9,000 

Crops 

3,744,156 

3,755,249 

4,411,134 

4,529,154 

4,715,624 

Food  grains 

4,034 

9,551 

7,898 

4,280 

4,221 

Wheat 

3,805 

9,330 

7,885 

4,280 

4,221 

Feed  crops 

1,656,263 

1,938,791 

2,537,804 

2,616,340 

2,704,008 

Com 

1,531,604 

1,781,850 

2,414,655 

2,521,000 

2,579,344 

Hay 

89,911 

119,521 

100,237 

83,554 

112,617 

Oats 

34,748 

37,420 

22,912 

11,786 

12,047 

Oil  crops 

2,011,335 

1,724,807 

1,786,225 

1,824,817 

1,918,410 

Soybeans 

2,011,335 

1,724,807 

1,786,225 

1,824,773 

1,918,389 

Vegetables 

9,291 

12,504 

11,883 

11,723 

11,837 

Potatoes 

1,539 

1,469 

743 

968 

1,414 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

5,120 

5,957 

5,803 

5,811 

5,957 

Frui ts/nuts 

2,781 

3,372 

3,223 

3,691 

4,448 

Apples 

1,906 

2,212 

1,954 

2,253 

2,898 

Other  berries 

812 

1,069 

1,179 

1,346 

1,453 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

63 

91 

90 

92 

97 

All  other  crops 

60,452 

66,224 

64,101 

68,303 

72,700 

Other  seeds 

1,188 

1,218 

1,220 

1,213 

1,225 

Other  field  crops 

9,351 

8,441 

6,431 

7,370 

8,211 

Greenhouse/nursery 

49,788 

56,520 

56,350 

59,606 

63,133 

Floriculture 

21,338 

25,983 

25,813 

28,906 

31,833 

Ornamentals,  other 

28,450 

30,537 

30,537 

30,700 

31,300 

KANSAS 

All  commodities 

6,485,66 7 

6,552,597 

7,019,018 

7,076,365 

7,000,307 

Livestock  and  products 

4,310,860 

4,416,043 

4,995,536 

4,800,468 

4,558,065 

Meat  animals 

4,123,346 

4,202,138 

4,780,062 

4,606,469 

4,349,462 

Cattle  and  calves 

3,850,447 

3,920,914 

4,443,512 

4,271,739 

4,068,753 

Hogs 

260,678 

269,304 

320,920 

322,798 

272,306 

Sheep  and  lambs 

12,221 

11,920 

15,630 

11,932 

8,403 

Dairy  products 

149,760 

163,020 

162,925 

141,453 

151,074 

Milk,  wholesale 

149,760 

163,020 

162,925 

141,453 

151,074 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


93 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Poultry/ eggs 

14,925 

22,742 

23,628 

20,939 

19,184 

Chicken  eggs 

11,224 

17,512 

18,348 

15,495 

11,330 

Turkeys 

1,827 

3,321 

3,784 

4,894 

7,240 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

22,829 

28,143 

28,921 

31,607 

38,345 

Honey 

1,333 

817 

1,447 

1,092 

958 

Wool 

1,791 

1,700 

1,004 

583 

704 

All  other  livestock 

18,438 

24,257 

25,438 

29,298 

36,148 

Crops 

2,174,807 

2,136,554 

2,023,482 

2,275,897 

2,442,242 

Food  grains 

1,075,283 

840,179 

946,011 

1,150,469 

1,124,532 

Uh  eat 

1,075,084 

840,050 

945,885 

1,150,326 

1,124,354 

Feed  crops 

690,132 

891,262 

743,389 

816,428 

929,483 

Barley 

5,778 

2,552 

1,210 

1,078 

963 

Com 

202,084 

356,775 

334,679 

407,138 

477,469 

Hay 

146,495 

143,928 

121,425 

115,775 

130,278 

Oats 

4,640 

5,601 

4,702 

3,235 

4,046 

Sorghun  grain 

331,135 

382,406 

281,373 

289,202 

316,727 

Cotton 

120 

191 

172 

263 

289 

Oi  l  crops 

328,273 

344,900 

275,257 

236,732 

314,723 

Soybeans 

316,273 

327,428 

265,531 

226,919 

299,103 

Sunflower 

12,000 

17,472 

9,726 

9,791 

15,582 

Vegetables 

25,083 

28,885 

26,372 

34,746 

33,311 

Beans,  dry 

7,562 

10,247 

10,349 

8,904 

6,251 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

17,521 

18,638 

16,023 

25,842 

27,060 

Fruits/nuts 

5,103 

2,515 

2,561 

3,193 

3,200 

Other  berries 

1,100 

815 

815 

1,785 

1,990 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,090 

90 

90 

568 

930 

All  other  crops 

50,813 

28,622 

29,720 

34,066 

36,704 

Other  seeds 

3,156 

821 

821 

1,262 

1,981 

Other  field  crops 

27,315 

5,457 

4,525 

5,466 

5,144 

Greenhouse/nursery 

20,342 

22,344 

24,374 

27,338 

29,579 

Floriculture 

15,342 

17,344 

19,374 

22,338 

24,079 

Ornamentals,  other 

5,000 

5,000 

5,000 

5,000 

5,500 

KENTUCKY 

All  comnodities 

2,500,413 

2,927,657 

3,102,981 

3,196,220 

3,221,305 

Livestock  and  products 

1,521,278 

1,658,034 

1,698,588 

1,705,350 

1,641,069 

Meat  animals 

673,379 

807,072 

868,467 

915,095 

839,842 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table 


continued-- 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Cattle  and  calves 

522,300 

619,528 

1,000  dollars 

682,120 

757,902 

692,486 

Hogs 

149,494 

186,070 

185,141 

156,200 

146,334 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

1,585 

1,474 

1,206 

993 

1,022 

Dairy  products 

280,980 

296,752 

311,025 

263,750 

284,960 

Milk,  wholesale 

280,980 

296,752 

311,025 

263,750 

284,960 

Poultry/ eggs 

22,190 

25,911 

25,400 

56,190 

78,570 

Broi lers 

3,548 

3,435 

1,870 

24,864 

48,496 

Chicken  eggs 

18,166 

21,741 

23,244 

31,054 

29,719 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

544,729 

528,299 

493,696 

470,315 

437,697 

Horses/mules 

540,000 

524,000 

490,000 

466,000 

433,000 

All  other  livestock 

2,646 

2,665 

2,665 

2,890 

3,036 

Crops 

979,135 

1,269,623 

1,404,393 

1,490,870 

1,580,236 

Food  grains 

64,245 

81,105 

57,062 

29,948 

65,840 

Wheat 

64,081 

81,027 

57,057 

29,948 

65,840 

Feed  crops 

174,807 

266,774 

288,379 

288,435 

300,061 

Barley 

1,830 

1,387 

1,983 

2,310 

2,292 

Com 

116,356 

201,817 

228,789 

230,811 

245,624 

Hay 

54,941 

61,879 

54,056 

51,296 

49,010 

Sorghim  grain 

1,131 

1,257 

3,502 

4,018 

3,135 

Tobacco 

476,851 

637,672 

738,616 

843,015 

877,357 

Oil  crops 

175,197 

189,794 

228,107 

220,367 

221,305 

Soybeans 

175,197 

189,794 

228,107 

219,577 

221,031 

Vegetables 

20,255 

22,013 

26,090 

29,687 

30,278 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

19,960 

21,809 

25,809 

29,467 

27,259 

Fruits/nuts 

9,439 

9,444 

7,386 

11,011 

10,605 

Apples 

1,500 

2,161 

1,639 

3,531 

3,332 

Fresh 

1,428 

2,000 

1,539 

3,452 

3,221 

Other  berries 

5,532 

6,117 

5,500 

5,750 

5,750 

All  other  crops 

58,341 

62,821 

58,753 

68,407 

74,790 

Other  seeds 

878 

1,876 

455 

1,123 

1,747 

Other  field  crops 

12,523 

14,898 

10,144 

13,033 

15,140 

Greenhouse/nursery 

44,900 

46,000 

48,100 

54,200 

57,850 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

21,400 

Ornamentals,  other 

44,900 

46,000 

48,100 

54,200 

36,450 

LOUISIANA 

All  conmodities 

1,883,489 

1,707,847 

1,915,938 

1,728,110 

1,846,181 

Livestock  and  products 

587,967 

614,026 

632,771 

636,312 

587,253 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


95 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Meat  animals 

244,466 

207,076 

216,282 

246,471 

173,422 

Cattle  and  calves 

237,712 

198,702 

207,135 

239,581 

165,911 

Hogs 

6,453 

8,072 

8,939 

6,658 

7,242 

Dairy  products 

126,490 

135,780 

141,680 

121,695 

135,360 

Milk,  wholesale 

126,490 

135,780 

141,680 

121,695 

135,360 

Poultry/ eggs 

174,105 

213,849 

203,440 

202,036 

210,542 

Chicken  eggs 

22,573 

27,159 

26,163 

24,342 

25,543 

Other  poultry 

NA 

NA 

951 

2,057 

3,219 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

42,906 

57,321 

71,369 

66,110 

67,929 

Honey 

1,607 

1,398 

1,792 

1,484 

2,408 

Aquaculture 

25,000 

36,531 

49,225 

42,459 

43,118 

Catfish 

NA 

12,531 

15,225 

8,832 

10,039 

Crawfish 

25,000 

24,000 

34,000 

33,627 

33,079 

Other  livestock 

16,212 

19,315 

20,325 

22,142 

22,374 

Crops 

1,295,522 

1,093,821 

1,283,167 

1,091,798 

1,258,928 

Food  grains 

204,946 

160,014 

236,507 

180,569 

206,400 

Rice 

170,582 

117,741 

197,458 

168,580 

186,115 

Wheat 

34,364 

42,273 

39,049 

11,989 

20,285 

Feed  crops 

42,028 

43,603 

58,473 

68,336 

92,785 

Com 

24,999 

25,067 

37,442 

41,193 

60,788 

Hay 

5,952 

5,849 

5,044 

5,898 

5,329 

Sorghum  grain 

11,077 

12,687 

15,987 

21,245 

26,668 

Cotton 

331,330 

283,843 

415,096 

333,839 

429,039 

Cotton  lint,  all 

296,482 

250,610 

370,245 

305,214 

393,837 

Cottonseed 

34,848 

33,233 

44,851 

28,625 

35,202 

Oil  crops 

396,177 

241,952 

263,120 

171,076 

192,048 

Soybeans 

396,177 

241,952 

263,120 

171,001 

191,687 

Vegetables 

56,603 

76,501 

65,831 

64,624 

76,911 

Sweetpotatoes 

18,656 

29,667 

27,925 

26,276 

27,125 

Tomatoes 

2,024 

1,178 

NA 

1,178 

2,970 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

35,500 

45,015 

37,738 

37,081 

39,046 

Fruits/nuts 

15,820 

14,304 

13,502 

26,219 

15,370 

Peaches 

1,632 

360 

1,258 

1,620 

1,665 

Strawberries 

2,968 

2,320 

4,012 

3,080 

6,960 

Other  berries 

1,119 

910 

1,321 

1,500 

1,776 

Pecans 

8,492 

7,565 

5,625 

19,885 

4,375 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,609 

3,149 

1,286 

134 

594 

All  other  crops 

248,618 

273,604 

230,638 

247,135 

246,375 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


96 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Cane  for  sugar 

197,877 

214,168 

1,000  dollars 

155,427 

174,788 

213,837 

Other  seeds 

66 

19 

NA 

NA 

2,423 

Other  field  crops 

2,927 

5,616 

6,116 

2,679 

2,423 

Greenhouse/nursery 

47,748 

53,801 

69,095 

69,668 

27,692 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

17,672 

Ornamentals,  other 

47,748 

53,801 

69,095 

69,668 

10,020 

MAINE 

All  comnodities 

413,838 

442,450 

491,917 

483,586 

513,187 

Livestock  and  products 

216,687 

216,085 

258,249 

291,534 

300,501 

Meat  animals 

24,477 

18,467 

22,550 

27,810 

22,911 

Cattle  and  calves 

22,599 

16,438 

19,795 

25,059 

21,125 

Hogs 

1,150 

1,467 

1,806 

1,952 

1,370 

Dairy  products 

85,550 

87,629 

91,940 

85,060 

93,755 

Milk,  retail 

2,470 

2,219 

2,260 

2,260 

2,260 

Milk,  viiolesale 

83,080 

85,410 

89,680 

82,800 

91,495 

Poultry/ eggs 

96,712 

99,976 

94,565 

90,295 

85,571 

Chicken  eggs 

89,917 

96,900 

89,974 

86,492 

80,401 

Other  poultry 

2,020 

2,000 

3,105 

3,090 

4,226 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

9,948 

10,013 

49,194 

88,369 

98,264 

Aquaculture 

NA 

NA 

39,000 

39,000 

49,000 

Other  livestock 

9,600 

9,600 

9,800 

9,935 

9,955 

Crops 

197,151 

226,365 

233,668 

192,052 

212,686 

Feed  crops 

9,595 

8,340 

7,156 

6,596 

8,560 

Hay 

2,876 

4,026 

4,703 

4,949 

6,646 

Oats 

6,719 

4,314 

2,453 

1,647 

1,914 

Vegetables 

120,666 

162,611 

155,683 

121,952 

124,095 

Potatoes 

106,083 

145,954 

139,508 

109,030 

113,215 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

13,156 

13,000 

13,608 

11,650 

10,145 

Fruits/nuts 

44,371 

31,541 

47,420 

38,664 

53,418 

Apples 

16,129 

15,704 

16,739 

17,736 

14,653 

Fresh 

14,780 

14,366 

15,397 

16,622 

13,622 

Processing 

1,349 

1,338 

1,342 

1,114 

1,031 

Blueberries 

26,092 

13,687 

27,859 

18,256 

36,203 

Other  berries 

2,000 

2,000 

2,600 

2,589 

2,475 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

150 

150 

222 

83 

87 

All  other  crops 

22,519 

23,873 

23,409 

24,840 

26,613 

Maple  products 

NA 

1,823 

1,744 

1,870 

2,433 

Other  seeds 

NA 

50 

165 

185 

170 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


97 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groqps  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Other  field  crops 

5,519 

5,000 

1,000  dollars 

4,000 

4,685 

5,310 

Greenhouse/nursery 

17,000 

17,000 

17,500 

18,100 

18,700 

MARYLAND 

All  commodities 

1,222,036 

1,333,887 

1,359,502 

1,352,025 

1,390,765 

Livestock  and  products 

767,603 

859,066 

822,507 

788,204 

803,973 

Meat  animals 

98,981 

100,823 

112,831 

101,790 

87,989 

Cattle  and  calves 

67,188 

76,234 

78,620 

73,736 

57,974 

Hogs 

30,858 

23,260 

33,310 

27,227 

29,364 

Dairy  products 

185,640 

197,635 

202,193 

183,040 

200,760 

Milk,  Uiolesale 

185,640 

197,635 

202,193 

183,040 

200,760 

Poultry/eggs 

442,676 

511,194 

459,878 

452,096 

459,994 

Broi lers 

396,142 

448,899 

399,427 

384,384 

403,920 

Farm  chickens 

1,240 

3,063 

2,385 

1,544 

1,686 

Chicken  eggs 

43,493 

58,041 

56,271 

56,739 

44,318 

Other  poultry 

100 

105 

200 

8,000 

8,605 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

40,306 

49,414 

47,605 

51,278 

55,230 

All  other  livestock 

40,000 

49,000 

47,343 

51,000 

55,000 

Crops 

454,433 

474,821 

536,995 

563,821 

586,792 

Food  grains 

30,107 

31,538 

26,564 

24,586 

39,033 

Wheat 

29,770 

31,183 

26,279 

24,255 

38,769 

Feed  crops 

77,644 

96,394 

111,900 

105,291 

119,584 

Barley 

8,607 

6,661 

7,411 

7,203 

7,687 

Com 

50,121 

70,771 

87,410 

82,042 

94,478 

Hay 

18,278 

17,919 

16,387 

15,738 

17,076 

Tobacco 

19,212 

13,759 

18,041 

17,658 

20,898 

Oi  l  crops 

89,911 

94,558 

98,644 

94.404 

94,906 

Soybeans 

89,911 

94,558 

98,644 

94,124 

94,502 

Vegetables 

51 ,864 

49,689 

85,462 

97,294 

76,196 

Potatoes 

3,305 

3,029 

2,858 

3,010 

3,232 

Sweetpotatoes 

1,839 

1,785 

1,286 

877 

515 

Com,  sweet 

2,152 

1,767 

2,986 

3,095 

2,481 

Spinach 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

8,859 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

11,154 

7,995 

14,347 

19,490 

9,810 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

25,850 

27,700 

54,503 

63,229 

32,500 

Fruits/nuts 

11,070 

11,477 

9,900 

14,851 

13,219 

Apples 

5,420 

5,375 

4,451 

6,079 

6,293 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table,  continued-- 


98 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Fresh 

3,947 

3,816 

3,031 

4,755 

4,639 

Processing 

1,473 

1,559 

1,420 

1,324 

1,654 

Peaches 

1,850 

2,127 

1,309 

3,624 

3,136 

Other  berries 

3,000 

3,150 

3,270 

4,273 

2,900 

All  other  crops 

174,625 

177,406 

186,484 

209,737 

222,956 

Other  seeds 

110 

115 

120 

125 

130 

Other  field  crops 

1,200 

1,200 

2,500 

12,235 

12,700 

Greenhouse/nursery 

171,708 

174,488 

182,237 

195,850 

208,721 

Floriculture 

31,708 

24,488 

26,237 

28,850 

30,721 

Ornamentals,  other 

140,000 

150,000 

156,000 

167,000 

178,000 

Mushrooms 

1,607 

1,603 

1,627 

1,527 

1,405 

MASSACHUSETTS 

All  comnodities 

416,647 

432,737 

443,395 

485,376 

491,234 

Livestock  and  products 

104,979 

112,923 

124,706 

129,355 

134,936 

Meat  animals 

9,816 

12,030 

13,750 

15,919 

14,035 

Cattle  and  calves 

6,254 

8,818 

9,233 

11,341 

10,517 

Hogs 

2,806 

2,601 

3,564 

3,653 

2,579 

Dairy  products 

62,512 

66,757 

70,054 

64,842 

74,450 

Milk,  retail 

4,391 

5,567 

5,526 

5,442 

5,442 

Milk,  wholesale 

58,121 

61,190 

64,528 

59,400 

69,008 

Poultry/eggs 

26,106 

25,728 

24,411 

23,662 

20,944 

Chicken  eggs 

20,305 

21,618 

20,563 

20,145 

17,218 

Turkeys 

3,060 

3,056 

3,535 

3,230 

3,455 

Other  poultry 

2,562 

500 

123 

143 

97 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

6,545 

8,408 

16,491 

24,932 

25,507 

Aquaculture 

NA 

NA 

8,245 

8,500 

8,950 

All  other  livestock 

5,866 

7,720 

7,725 

7,883 

7,983 

Crops 

311,668 

319,814 

318,689 

356,021 

356,298 

Feed  crops 

4,057 

4,725 

4,967 

5,017 

5,644 

Hay 

4,057 

4,725 

4,967 

5,017 

5,644 

Tobacco 

12,653 

12,507 

13,442 

14,571 

10,793 

Vegetables 

34,229 

38,519 

63,344 

62,758 

57,596 

Potatoes 

4,070 

4,503 

4,677 

4,185 

4,884 

Com,  sweet 

11,594 

13,260 

9,088 

9,883 

9,412 

Tomatoes 

5,775 

7,440 

8,760 

6,300 

6,240 

Mi sc.  vegetables 

12,000 

12,500 

40,000 

39,000 

36,000 

Frui ts/nuts 

114,018 

109,673 

87,903 

123,313 

117,193 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table 


continued-- 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Apples 

20,184 

18,617 

1,000  dollars 

17,928 

18,135 

15,064 

Fresh 

18,411 

16,952 

16,384 

16,831 

13,805 

Processing 

1,773 

1,665 

1,544 

1,304 

1,259 

Cranberries 

86,164 

82,946 

62,737 

98,405 

92,628 

Other  berries 

6,000 

6,500 

5,345 

5,885 

8,425 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

515 

560 

1,000 

378 

471 

All  other  crops 

146,711 

154,390 

149,033 

150,362 

165,072 

Maple  products 

1,610 

871 

922 

1,483 

1,740 

Other  field  crops 

5,088 

5,088 

3,700 

2,920 

3,170 

Greenhouse/nursery 

138,807 

147,356 

143,551 

145,111 

159,329 

Floriculture 

33,807 

42,356 

35,551 

36,111 

49,329 

Ornamentals,  other 

105,000 

105,000 

108,000 

109,000 

110,000 

MICHIGAN 

All  conmodities 

2,728,406 

2,923,941 

3,111,876 

3,209,894 

3,286,329 

Livestock  and  products 

1,209,996 

1,311,299 

1,406,887 

1,287,675 

1,324,609 

Meat  animals 

457,177 

472,072 

529,177 

504,795 

477,477 

Cattle  and  calves 

258,869 

269,283 

275,323 

284,605 

275,369 

Hogs 

193,744 

197,907 

249,825 

216,234 

198,281 

Sheep  and  lambs 

4,564 

4,882 

4,029 

3,956 

3,827 

Dairy  products 

640,686 

693,950 

729,476 

643,140 

711,290 

Milk,  retail 

3,326 

3,070 

3,326 

4,540 

5,060 

Milk,  wholesale 

637,360 

690,880 

726,150 

638,600 

706,230 

Poultry/ eggs 

82,395 

114,860 

122,227 

113,545 

109,961 

Broi lers 

1,159 

1,209 

1,184 

702 

996 

Farm  chickens 

1,829 

2,383 

1,542 

606 

752 

Chicken  eggs 

47,237 

68,338 

68,074 

62,587 

47,066 

Other  poultry 

250 

300 

300 

300 

300 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

29,738 

30,417 

26,007 

26,195 

25,881 

Honey 

3,676 

3,998 

4,480 

4,369 

3,811 

Aquaculture 

NA 

1,550 

1,940 

2,410 

2,410 

Other  livestock 

25,214 

24,050 

19,187 

19,066 

19,324 

Mink  pelts 

5,204 

5,200 

2,117 

1,504 

1,322 

All  other  livestock 

20,010 

18,850 

17,070 

17,562 

18,002 

Crops 

1,518,410 

1,612,642 

1,704,989 

1,922,219 

1,961,720 

Food  grains 

84,451 

120,873 

83,938 

86,527 

104,776 

Uheat 

83,478 

120,105 

83,327 

86,134 

104,321 

Feed  crops 

368,669 

388,306 

439,385 

503,406 

489,073 

Barley 

2,132 

2,603 

3,194 

1,938 

2,087 

Com 

255,435 

276,843 

344,310 

421,955 

401,679 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


100 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Hay 

98,781 

93,011 

82,537 

73,213 

79,054 

Oats 

12,321 

15,849 

9,344 

6,300 

6,253 

Oi l  crops 

266,735 

211,125 

228,553 

273,460 

270,081 

Soybeans 

266,735 

211,125 

228,553 

271,997 

268,771 

Vegetables 

270,162 

322,358 

363,924 

340,522 

356,061 

Beans,  dry 

56,613 

83,228 

116,041 

87,696 

91,821 

Potatoes 

54,018 

72,247 

71,862 

73,110 

81,962 

Suimer 

9,028 

17,696 

16,480 

18,400 

20,436 

Fall 

44,990 

54,551 

55,382 

54,710 

61,526 

Asparagus 

14,636 

14,784 

14,685 

14,126 

16,888 

Fresh 

2,894 

2,244 

3,453 

3,620 

3,874 

Processing 

11,742 

12,540 

11,232 

10,506 

13,014 

Beans,  snap 

6,615 

10,350 

13,541 

11,194 

9,494 

Carrots 

21,317 

14,047 

17,250 

17,443 

20,313 

Cauliflower 

2,382 

2,378 

2,755 

2,215 

2,388 

Celery 

16,142 

14,103 

12,891 

12,515 

17,547 

Com,  sweet,  fresh 

9,126 

14,035 

11,268 

16,345 

12,240 

Cucumbers 

19,734 

24,696 

23,647 

21,888 

28,486 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

10,710 

Processing 

19,734 

24,696 

23,647 

21,888 

17,776 

Lettuce 

2,646 

4,264 

4,616 

4,060 

2,400 

Onions 

25,780 

23,011 

20,461 

21,568 

25,844 

Tomatoes 

14,596 

15,971 

19,034 

20,053 

23,049 

Fresh 

6,936 

6,300 

6,210 

6,831 

10,530 

Processing 

7,660 

9,671 

12,824 

13,222 

12,519 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

25,300 

28,000 

33,000 

34,500 

8,000 

Fruits/nuts 

167,583 

175,827 

172,798 

225,458 

210,166 

Apples 

48,719 

64,983 

69,325 

83,845 

100,432 

Fresh 

9,740 

23,772 

28,921 

38,692 

52,335 

Processing 

38,979 

41,211 

40,404 

45,153 

48,097 

Cherries 

51,254 

37,090 

36,433 

66,987 

52,808 

Sweet 

18,395 

11,705 

6,913 

14,097 

11,708 

Tart 

32,859 

25,385 

29,520 

52,890 

41,100 

Grapes 

13,548 

11,415 

13,372 

12,926 

9,950 

Peaches 

8,028 

10,490 

9,447 

6,978 

8,091 

Pears 

1,445 

2,047 

668 

1,363 

1,299 

Pluns  and  prunes 

2,173 

2,281 

1,778 

2,449 

2,140 

Strawberries 

6,081 

5,736 

7,215 

6,430 

7,066 

Blueberries 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

27,100 

Other  berries 

36,075 

41,515 

34,260 

44,105 

900 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

260 

270 

300 

375 

380 

All  other  crops 

360,810 

394,153 

416,391 

492,846 

531 ,563 

Sugar-beets 

86,148 

107,474 

125,088 

98,031 

118,034 

Other  seeds 

740 

683 

490 

590 

300 

Mint 

598 

976 

1,162 

1,750 

1,404 

Other  field  crops 

11,200 

10,080 

11,100 

8,630 

6,650 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


101 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Greenhouse/nursery 

241,370 

254,639 

258,751 

365,833 

386,815 

Floriculture 

101,370 

112,639 

118,751 

125,833 

136,815 

Ornamentals,  other 

140,000 

142,000 

140,000 

240,000 

250,000 

Mushrooms 

20,754 

20,301 

19,800 

18,012 

15,827 

MINNESOTA 

All  commodities 

6,233,337 

6,505,920 

6,888,461 

7,378,091 

7,082,069 

Livestock  and  products 

3,490,124 

3,693,410 

3,749,374 

3,592,524 

3,622,301 

Meat  animals 

1,819,253 

1,849,433 

1,893,243 

1,897,265 

1,854,069 

Cattle  and  calves 

1,056,897 

1,021,527 

913,695 

977,560 

971,661 

Hogs 

749,700 

810,352 

967,161 

906,539 

864,685 

Sheep  and  larrbs 

12,656 

17,554 

12,387 

13,166 

17,723 

Dairy  products 

1,194,425 

1,304,730 

1,308,119 

1,148,720 

1,249,663 

Milk,  wholesale 

1,194,425 

1,304,730 

1,308,119 

1,148,720 

1,249,663 

Poultry/ eggs 

425,996 

493,511 

523,900 

521,733 

492,454 

Broi lers 

49,782 

65,146 

63,437 

67,650 

71,619 

Farm  chickens 

2,083 

2,982 

1,534 

634 

998 

Chicken  eggs 

71,250 

96,893 

120,160 

121,365 

95,838 

Turkeys 

267,729 

290,235 

298,172 

289,872 

283,185 

Other  poultry 

35,152 

38,255 

40,597 

42,212 

40,814 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

50,450 

45,736 

24,112 

24,806 

26,115 

Honey 

8,321 

6,831 

6,164 

8,845 

9,405 

Other  livestock 

40,745 

37,384 

17,265 

15,507 

16,133 

Mink  pelts 

17,313 

17,313 

9,517 

7,645 

8,256 

All  other  livestock 

23,432 

20,071 

7,748 

7,862 

7,877 

Crops 

2,743,213 

2,812,510 

3,139,087 

3,785,567 

3,459,768 

Food  grains 

176,326 

353,788 

283,489 

308,393 

402,902 

Rye 

1,228 

1,597 

1,433 

1,136 

1,055 

Wheat 

175,098 

352,191 

282,056 

307,257 

401,847 

Feed  crops 

916,194 

1,090,231 

1,294,999 

1,642,841 

1,425,366 

Barley 

88,791 

118,154 

79,838 

79,445 

84,601 

Com 

623,754 

793,352 

1,068,749 

1,429,810 

1,223,987 

Hay 

168,693 

145,830 

121,793 

116,565 

102,113 

Oats 

34,956 

32,895 

24,619 

17,021 

14,665 

Oi  l  crops 

1,225,465 

847,898 

979,533 

1,271,119 

1,030,551 

Soybeans 

1,214,864 

837,157 

957,517 

1,231,756 

988,223 

Sunflower 

9,636 

10,063 

20,952 

36,154 

39,940 

Vegetables 

134,780 

207,070 

216,509 

210,354 

208,901 

Beans,  dry 

8,330 

21,743 

29,118 

32,565 

31,016 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


102 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Potatoes 

65,342 

98,882 

96,850 

86,419 

78,925 

Sumter 

9,660 

14,350 

12,013 

10,662 

9,463 

Fall 

55,682 

84,532 

84,837 

75,757 

69,462 

Carrots 

2,296 

3,535 

3,696 

3,472 

3,687 

Com,  sweet 

30,246 

40,029 

46,968 

50,980 

42,897 

Onions 

1,980 

996 

1,258 

1,953 

2,652 

Peas,  green 

13,818 

28,375 

28,035 

24,986 

36,733 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

8,423 

8,423 

5,341 

5,340 

6,300 

Fruits/nuts 

5,036 

8,744 

13,429 

12,171 

11,696 

Apples 

3,822 

7,530 

7,194 

9,371 

8,896 

Other  berries 

1,050 

1,050 

5,150 

2,800 

2,800 

All  other  crops 

285,412 

304,779 

351,128 

340,689 

380,352 

Sugarbeets 

208,218 

222,605 

263,963 

248,074 

275,169 

Other  seeds 

8,602 

5,519 

2,668 

4,900 

5,925 

Other  field  crops 

7,990 

8,574 

10,760 

9,922 

12,025 

Greenhouse/nursery 

60,420 

67,893 

73,571 

77,588 

86,565 

Floriculture 

32,920 

37,893 

41,071 

42,588 

49,065 

Ornamentals,  other 

27,500 

30,000 

32,500 

35,000 

37,500 

MISSISSIPPI 

All  conmodities 

2,311,474 

2,275,837 

2,432,587 

2,383,299 

2,601,966 

Livestock  and  products 

1,180,857 

1,294,835 

1,321,790 

1,275,537 

1,355,116 

Meat  animals 

275,661 

291,660 

333,707 

276,870 

255,649 

Cattle  and  calves 

240,476 

258,648 

297,726 

252,004 

233,235 

Hogs 

35,185 

33,012 

35,981 

24,738 

22,343 

Dairy  products 

107,615 

109,291 

112,549 

96,862 

106,500 

Milk,  wholesale 

106,080 

107,965 

111,740 

96,360 

106,500 

Poultry/ eggs 

581,941 

691,404 

642,745 

689,780 

765,236 

Broi lers 

503,194 

593,786 

533,519 

579,070 

664,814 

Farm  chickens 

4,694 

7,993 

4,259 

3,843 

4,010 

Chicken  eggs 

74,018 

89,585 

104,921 

106,786 

96,331 

Other  poultry 

35 

40 

46 

81 

81 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

215,640 

202,480 

232,789 

212,025 

227,731 

Aquaculture 

210,474 

198,082 

227,400 

207,311 

223,178 

Other  livestock 

4,487 

4,050 

4,645 

4,181 

3,715 

Crops 

1,130,617 

981,002 

1,110,797 

1,107,762 

1,246,850 

Food  grains 

159,623 

145,955 

147,379 

93,061 

148,008 

Rice 

94,405 

86,181 

101,233 

78,702 

115,953 

Wheat 

65,218 

59,774 

46,146 

14,359 

32,055 

Feed  crops 

38,529 

32,234 

33,050 

38,503 

62,165 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


103 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Com 

12,785 

13,426 

1,000  dollars 

15,208 

16,928 

31 ,474 

Hay 

8,853 

8,906 

7,984 

11,770 

14,382 

Sorghun  grain 

16,891 

9,902 

9,858 

9,805 

16,309 

Cotton 

524,508 

465,479 

649,574 

630,165 

667,831 

Cotton  lint,  all 

455,371 

409,508 

574,761 

582,186 

601,787 

Upland 

455,371 

409,341 

574,248 

581,898 

601,569 

Cottonseed 

69,137 

55,971 

74,813 

47,979 

66,044 

Oi  l  crops 

346,986 

275,540 

208,222 

260,690 

293,436 

Soybeans 

346,986 

275,540 

208,222 

260,530 

293,227 

Vegetables 

22,978 

24,404 

32,667 

39,592 

41,999 

Sweetpotatoes 

5,276 

3,697 

3,000 

4,148 

6,065 

Hi sc.  vegetables 

17,500 

20,300 

29,300 

35,400 

30,620 

Fruits/nuts 

11,913 

10,390 

14,385 

18,856 

6,820 

Other  berries 

1,900 

1,750 

2,010 

3,002 

4,520 

Pecans 

4,870 

5,040 

2,840 

6,400 

1,060 

All  other  crops 

26,080 

27,000 

25,520 

26,895 

26,591 

Other  seeds 

1,000 

900 

1,000 

1,000 

1,000 

Other  field  crops 

5,080 

5,100 

3,520 

4,895 

4,591 

Greenh ouse/nursery 

20,000 

21,000 

21,000 

21,000 

21,000 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

9,119 

Ornamentals,  other 

20,000 

21,000 

21,000 

21,000 

11,881 

MISSOURI 

All  commodities 

3,795,638 

3,921,088 

3,984,520 

3,910,867 

4,123,300 

Livestock  and  products 

2,054,276 

2,169,030 

2,329,123 

2,268,403 

2,188,369 

Meat  animals 

1,397,490 

1,406,861 

1,532,068 

1,477,574 

1,340,823 

Cattle  and  calves 

883,366 

927,448 

961,793 

935,134 

882,145 

Hogs 

510,260 

474,581 

565,809 

538,604 

455,030 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

3,864 

4,832 

4,466 

3,836 

3,648 

Dairy  products 

358,680 

388,360 

405,960 

333,795 

379,600 

Milk,  viiolesale 

358,680 

388,360 

405,960 

333,795 

379,600 

Poultry/ eggs 

283,720 

357,189 

373,394 

431,566 

438,343 

Farm  chickens 

2,860 

2,340 

1,120 

840 

2,631 

Chicken  eggs 

46,416 

66,825 

72,943 

69,611 

53,813 

Turkeys 

133,980 

144,697 

147,600 

171,570 

163,590 

Other  poultry 

21,330 

26,120 

28,780 

33,935 

34,097 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

14,386 

16,620 

17,701 

25,468 

29,603 

Honey 

1,464 

1,146 

1,077 

1,128 

1,232 

Aquaculture 

1,903 

4,307 

4,341 

4,233 

4,481 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


104 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Catfish 

1,903 

2,041 

1,000  dollars 

2,576 

2,101 

2,349 

Trout 

NA 

2,266 

1,765 

2,132 

2,132 

All  other  livestock 

10,444 

10,375 

11,885 

19,863 

23,572 

Crops 

1,741,362 

1,752,058 

1,655,397 

1,642,464 

1,934,931 

Food  grains 

255,013 

347,144 

215,052 

164,901 

234,133 

Rice 

31,688 

25,222 

27,465 

35,950 

36,260 

Wheat 

222,745 

321,695 

187,574 

128,951 

197,873 

Feed  crops 

370,534 

466,196 

490,434 

510,200 

611,463 

Com 

259,004 

344,978 

355,693 

383,356 

452,220 

Hay 

48,107 

58,008 

58,550 

64,272 

75,124 

Sorghum  grain 

62,085 

61,642 

75,078 

62,162 

83,780 

Cotton 

95,518 

95,346 

114,276 

118,454 

157,324 

Cotton  lint,  all 

81,514 

85,111 

100,687 

107,233 

138,136 

Cottonseed 

14,004 

10,235 

13,589 

11,221 

19,188 

Tobacco 

5,083 

6,356 

11,482 

13,299 

7,226 

Oil  crops 

905,492 

724,397 

711,729 

716,225 

806,966 

Soybeans 

905,492 

724,397 

711,729 

715,584 

806,566 

Vegetables 

11,069 

14,343 

18,380 

20,435 

9,066 

Potatoes 

NA 

NA 

5,912 

8,600 

NA 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

9,104 

13,096 

9,650 

9,350 

5,430 

Fruits/nuts 

16,386 

13,098 

9,806 

13,846 

12,416 

Apples 

8,567 

7,571 

7,165 

8,462 

7,031 

Fresh 

8,547 

7,020 

6,538 

7,903 

6,615 

Peaches 

2,475 

1,215 

210 

2,530 

2,430 

Other  berries 

1,133 

1,000 

900 

1,400 

900 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

3,200 

1,350 

950 

260 

1,200 

All  other  crops 

82,267 

85,178 

84,238 

85,104 

96,337 

Other  seeds 

25,004 

22,000 

20,200 

21,275 

27,480 

Other  field  crops 

4,510 

7,100 

6,720 

4,180 

6,035 

Greenhouse/nursery 

52,753 

56,078 

57,318 

59,649 

62,822 

Floriculture 

27,028 

30,078 

31,018 

33,049 

35,422 

Ornamentals,  other 

25,725 

26,000 

26,300 

26,600 

27,400 

MONTANA 

All  conmodities 

1 ,401 ,435 

1,552,992 

1,653,394 

1,514,382 

1,742,408 

Livestock  and  products 

816,262 

929,256 

888,169 

809,971 

921,312 

Meat  animals 

743,244 

852,462 

812,639 

742,103 

845,645 

Cattle  and  calves 

693,345 

797,523 

751,743 

677,094 

780,755 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


105 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988 

1969  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Hogs 

28,613 

34,181 

1,000  dollars 

42,150 

44,444 

39,749 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

21,286 

20,758 

18,746 

20,565 

25,141 

Dairy  products 

41,254 

42,752 

42,963 

38,734 

41,795 

Milk,  wholesale 

40,626 

41,965 

42,196 

38,064 

41,097 

Poultry/ eggs 

8,009 

11,512 

9,928 

9,161 

6,657 

Chicken  eggs 

7,760 

11,250 

9,747 

9,020 

6,533 

Other  poultry 

75 

65 

65 

68 

68 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

23,755 

22,530 

22,639 

19,973 

27,215 

Honey 

2,369 

2,961 

4,287 

4,510 

5,455 

Wool 

8,386 

7,836 

5,646 

3,729 

5,075 

All  other  livestock 

13,000 

9,375 

11,125 

10,606 

15,457 

Crops 

585,173 

623,736 

765,225 

704,411 

821,096 

Food  grains 

306,877 

375,049 

439,440 

410,444 

506,967 

Wheat 

306,877 

375,049 

439,440 

410,444 

506,967 

Feed  crops 

192,941 

164,122 

229,597 

200,918 

224,703 

Barley 

117,148 

81,064 

149,690 

132,869 

145,545 

Com 

1,927 

1,468 

774 

2,004 

3,575 

Hay 

71,633 

78,832 

76,778 

64,406 

74,140 

Oats 

2,233 

2,758 

2,355 

1,639 

1,443 

Oi  l  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

5,147 

5,225 

Vegetables 

13,467 

17,926 

20,287 

21,633 

18,575 

Beans,  dry 

1,752 

2,709 

3,343 

2,616 

2,614 

Potatoes 

11,565 

15,130 

16,834 

18,901 

15,826 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

150 

87 

110 

116 

135 

Fruits/nuts 

1,242 

150 

370 

376 

481 

Other  berries 

100 

100 

75 

79 

85 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

100 

50 

45 

47 

60 

All  other  crops 

70,646 

66,489 

75,531 

65,893 

65,145 

Sugarbeets 

46,646 

45,039 

53,568 

48,938 

47,446 

Other  seeds 

5,500 

4,600 

6,500 

4,406 

3,239 

Other  field  crops 

11,000 

9,350 

6,963 

3,624 

4,460 

Greenhouse/nursery 

7,500 

7,500 

8,500 

8,925 

10,000 

NEBRASKA 

All  conmodities 

7,801,439 

8,725,921 

8,715,014 

9,044,459 

8,782,653 

Livestock  and  products 

5,390,322 

5,646,016 

6,076,192 

5,933,333 

5,673,591 

Meat  animals 

5,146,771 

5,368,120 

5,788,540 

5,669,847 

5,406,482 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


106 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Cattle  and  calves 

4,468,106 

4,633,788 

4,879,882 

4,783,085 

4,619,794 

Hogs 

667,776 

723,211 

899,524 

878,134 

777,039 

Sheep  and  lambs 

10,889 

11,121 

9,134 

8,628 

9,649 

Dairy  products 

155,610 

172,250 

171,610 

144,420 

150,570 

Milk,  wholesale 

155,610 

172,250 

171,610 

144,420 

150,570 

Poultry/eggs 

46,689 

63,124 

72,334 

77,382 

73,742 

Broi lers 

2,360 

5,590 

7,222 

5,544 

5,520 

Chicken  eggs 

31,194 

41,307 

50,384 

57,050 

53,310 

Turkeys 

11,703 

14,793 

13,694 

13,711 

13,293 

Other  poultry 

600 

790 

840 

850 

1,200 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

41,252 

42,522 

43,708 

41,684 

42,797 

Honey 

4,882 

3,394 

3,238 

3,835 

3,816 

All  other  livestock 

35,129 

37,767 

39,615 

37,400 

38,400 

Crops 

2,411,117 

3,079,905 

2,638,8 22 

3,111,126 

3,109,062 

Food  grains 

231,059 

256,748 

181,732 

220,810 

193,501 

Rye 

1,574 

913 

1,043 

1,548 

1,537 

Wheat 

229,485 

255,835 

180,689 

219,262 

191,964 

Feed  crops 

1,469,520 

2,074,835 

1,803,594 

2,216,610 

2,234,981 

Barley 

3,314 

1,613 

936 

1,166 

1,671 

Com 

1,188,540 

1,717,525 

1,521,792 

1,896,497 

1,912,994 

Hay 

101,458 

125,527 

114,941 

105,944 

103,912 

Oats 

14,847 

7,978 

7,827 

8,996 

12,279 

Sorghum  grain 

161,361 

222, 192 

158,098 

204,007 

204,125 

Oil  crops 

533,052 

493,560 

421,204 

485,194 

501,150 

Soybeans 

533,052 

493,560 

421,204 

481,110 

495,766 

Sunflower 

NA 

NA 

NA 

4,019 

5,278 

Vegetables 

77,845 

147,301 

114,103 

76,070 

72,387 

Beans,  dry 

58,487 

122,104 

88,696 

54,838 

48,817 

Potatoes 

14,358 

19,697 

20,782 

16,332 

18,570 

Sumter 

3,810 

4,550 

4,872 

2,035 

3,660 

Fall 

10,548 

15,147 

15,910 

14,297 

14,910 

Misc.  vegetables 

5,000 

5,500 

4,625 

4,900 

5,000 

Fruits/nuts 

2,480 

2,480 

2,400 

1,950 

1,950 

Other  berries 

350 

350 

350 

350 

350 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

2,130 

2,130 

2,050 

1,600 

1,600 

All  other  crops 

97,161 

104,981 

115,789 

110,492 

105,093 

Sugarbeets 

56,981 

50,501 

59,789 

61,542 

54,093 

Other  seeds 

5,380 

5,380 

5,200 

4,950 

3,500 

Other  field  crops 

23,600 

37,900 

39,300 

32,000 

32,500 

Greenhouse/nursery 

11,200 

11,200 

11,500 

12,000 

15,000 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


107 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

NEVADA 

All  comnodities 

243,909 

243,589 

324,532 

296,946 

272,795 

Livestock  and  products 

159,126 

142,033 

209,140 

208,726 

201,648 

Meat  animals 

124,142 

102,205 

164,024 

166,950 

154,466 

Cattle  and  calves 

119,298 

97,452 

158,734 

162,220 

149,630 

Hogs 

1,903 

1,845 

2,476 

2,493 

1,879 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

2,941 

2,908 

2,814 

2,237 

2,957 

Dairy  products 

33,033 

37,728 

42,108 

38,860 

43,152 

Milk,  wholesale 

33,033 

37,728 

42,108 

38,860 

43,152 

Poultry/ eggs 

73 

109 

100 

80 

50 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

1,878 

1,991 

2,908 

2,836 

3,980 

Other  livestock 

450 

480 

1,500 

1,760 

2,635 

Crops 

84,783 

101,556 

115,392 

88,220 

71,147 

Food  grains 

3,837 

3,708 

2,458 

1,762 

2,121 

Wheat 

3,837 

3,708 

2,458 

1,762 

2,121 

Feed  crops 

56,474 

62,740 

66,997 

49,337 

39,604 

Barley 

1,353 

1,552 

1,416 

873 

1,010 

Hay 

55,121 

61,188 

65,581 

48,464 

38,594 

Oil  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

14 

4 

Vegetables 

15,407 

22,842 

25,806 

21,397 

18,760 

Potatoes 

8,254 

13,513 

19,038 

14,201 

10,693 

Misc.  vegetables 

7,153 

9,329 

6,768 

7,196 

8,067 

Fruits/nuts 

3 

14 

6 

7 

7 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

3 

14 

6 

7 

7 

All  other  crops 

9,062 

12,252 

20,125 

15,703 

10,651 

Other  seeds 

8,825 

11,947 

17,305 

12,225 

6,596 

Other  field  crops 

30 

25 

890 

998 

995 

Greenhouse/nursery 

207 

280 

1,930 

2,480 

3,060 

NEW  HAMPSHIRE 

All  comnodities 

136,186 

137,764 

142,282 

142,474 

143,983 

Livestock  and  products 

58,684 

65,395 

63,323 

63,339 

65,008 

Meat  animals 

9,861 

13,944 

7,269 

7,816 

5,434 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


108 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Cattle  and  calves 

8,660 

12,872 

1,000  dollars 

5,966 

6,503 

4,140 

Dairy  products 

39,853 

41,463 

44,793 

43,405 

46,248 

Milk,  wholesale 

39,072 

41,184 

43,956 

42,568 

46,248 

Poultry/ eggs 

6,382 

6,831 

7,469 

8,339 

9,005 

Chicken  eggs 

3,783 

4,726 

3,906 

4,507 

5,460 

Other  poultry 

2,000 

1,430 

2,967 

3,146 

2,965 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

2,588 

3,157 

3,792 

3,779 

4,321 

Aquaculture 

NA 

NA 

500 

500 

500 

All  other  livestock 

2,500 

2,500 

3,050 

3,095 

3,115 

Crops 

77,502 

72,369 

78,959 

79,135 

78,975 

Feed  crops 

6,372 

6,596 

6,527 

6,238 

7,080 

Hay 

6,372 

6,596 

6,527 

6,238 

7,080 

Vegetables 

12,000 

7,000 

18,000 

18,500 

16,665 

Misc.  vegetables 

12,000 

7,000 

18,000 

18,500 

16,665 

Fruits/nuts 

18,333 

18,679 

15,109 

14,840 

13,237 

Apples 

11,333 

11,119 

10,709 

10,726 

9,020 

Fresh 

10,534 

10,278 

9,750 

9,905 

8,090 

Other  berries 

6,000 

6,500 

3,400 

3,400 

3,500 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,000 

1,060 

1,000 

714 

717 

All  other  crops 

40,797 

40,094 

39,323 

39,557 

41,993 

Maple  products 

2,797 

2,094 

2,123 

2,657 

3,093 

Other  field  crops 

6,000 

6,000 

4,200 

3,900 

4,900 

Greenhouse/nursery 

32,000 

32,000 

33,000 

33,000 

34,000 

NEW  JERSEY 

All  comnodities 

642,648 

659,581 

648,791 

658,186 

656,888 

Livestock  and  products 

192,541 

197,328 

195,665 

192,983 

192,383 

Meat  animals 

18,712 

19,477 

17,343 

17,445 

15,514 

Cattle  and  calves 

16,282 

16,721 

14,721 

15,026 

13,591 

Hogs 

1,625 

1,527 

1,641 

1,288 

1,142 

Dairy  products 

53,901 

51,340 

53,244 

48,860 

50,232 

Milk,  wholesale 

51,054 

51,340 

53,244 

48,860 

50,232 

Poultry/ eggs 

29,054 

31,564 

34,962 

37,555 

33,060 

Chicken  eggs 

23,895 

26,948 

31,308 

33,961 

30,042 

Turkeys 

2,479 

2,269 

1,926 

1,393 

1,383 

Other  poultry 

1,745 

1,476 

1,385 

1,769 

1,350 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

90,874 

94,947 

90,116 

89,123 

93,577 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


109 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

All  other  livestock 

90,022 

94,471 

1,000  dollars 

89,779 

88,767 

93,360 

Crops 

450,107 

462,253 

453,126 

465,203 

464,505 

Food  grains 

5,356 

5,595 

3,956 

3,556 

4,972 

Wheat 

4,599 

5,113 

3,549 

3,060 

4,303 

Feed  crops 

23,283 

21,182 

23,653 

25,129 

27,149 

Com 

11,489 

10,478 

13,746 

15,271 

15,307 

Hay 

10,261 

9,560 

9,138 

9,084 

10,983 

Oi  l  crops 

21,142 

20,317 

22,299 

23,784 

23,210 

Soybeans 

21,142 

20,317 

22,299 

23,764 

23,190 

Vegetables 

111,432 

112,119 

115,163 

125,410 

141,934 

Potatoes 

6,553 

7,738 

8,988 

5,472 

6,048 

Sweetpotatoes 

3,899 

3,603 

3,690 

3,539 

3,571 

Asparagus 

2,261 

2,462 

2,176 

1,822 

3,300 

Beans,  snap,  fresh 

4,808 

5,197 

4,640 

2,749 

4,010 

Com,  sweet,  fresh 

10,354 

9,487 

10,448 

11,718 

11,826 

Cucutbers,  fresh 

4,637 

3,749 

4,060 

3,891 

8,536 

Eggplant,  all 

3,278 

2,803 

2,188 

3,269 

3,240 

Escarole 

2,838 

3,039 

2,968 

2,508 

2,843 

Lettuce 

5,127 

4,528 

3,985 

7,578 

7,183 

Head 

NA 

NA 

NA 

4,828 

4,342 

Romaine 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,750 

2,841 

Peppers,  green 

10,317 

11,134 

10,886 

11,160 

13,603 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

13,603 

Spinach 

3,225 

4,241 

4,399 

4,650 

4,302 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

4,399 

4,650 

4,302 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

13,195 

13,454 

16,733 

12,480 

21,420 

Squash 

NA 

NA 

NA 

10,232 

10,444 

Winter 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,112 

1,820 

Sumter 

NA 

NA 

NA 

8,120 

8,624 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

25,000 

24,500 

23,030 

25,745 

28,759 

Purpkins 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,955 

3,658 

Fruits/nuts 

65,852 

65,984 

56,842 

79,234 

81,134 

Apples 

5,296 

4,974 

4,990 

9,702 

8,327 

Fresh 

2,874 

3,044 

2,845 

6,804 

6,105 

Processing 

2,422 

1,930 

2,145 

2,898 

2,222 

Peaches 

19,524 

22,512 

15,324 

27,324 

25,500 

Cranberries 

16,687 

11,972 

14,535 

15,598 

22,801 

Strawberries 

2,310 

1,258 

1,838 

1,273 

1,685 

Blueberries 

21 ,350 

24,560 

19,435 

24,235 

21,820 

Other  berries 

217 

217 

220 

530 

530 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

468 

491 

500 

572 

471 

All  other  crops 

223,042 

237,056 

231,213 

208,090 

186,106 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


110 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Other  field  crops 

900 

1,200 

1,000  dollars 

2,126 

3,829 

4,666 

Greenhouse/nursery 

221,796 

235,556 

228,787 

204,009 

181,248 

Floriculture 

51,446 

56,688 

64,228 

61,678 

65,062 

Ornamentals,  other 

170,350 

178,868 

164,559 

142,331 

116,186 

NEW  MEXICO 

All  comnodities 

1,287,381 

1,458,940 

1,483,465 

1,452,294 

1,530,425 

Livestock  and  products 

908,604 

974,211 

1,001,399 

977,889 

1,040,101 

Meat  animals 

737,275 

766,326 

757,099 

722,733 

739,031 

Cattle  and  calves 

719,766 

749,452 

744,496 

710,181 

725,028 

Hogs 

4,545 

3,469 

4,059 

4,417 

3,880 

Sheep  and  lambs 

12,964 

13,405 

8,544 

8,135 

10,123 

Dairy  products 

136,697 

169,800 

207,989 

220,994 

269,310 

Milk,  retail 

7,377 

9,535 

9,535 

7,814 

10,670 

Milk,  wholesale 

129,320 

160,265 

198,454 

213,180 

258,640 

Poultry/eggs 

13,081 

17,540 

17,550 

17,699 

14,716 

Chicken  eggs 

12,915 

17,395 

17,452 

17,617 

14,645 

Other  poultry 

40 

40 

40 

40 

40 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

21,551 

20,545 

18,761 

16,463 

17,044 

Wool 

7,546 

6,630 

4,732 

2,685 

3,490 

Other  livestock 

12,250 

12,500 

12,500 

12,500 

12,500 

Crops 

378,777 

484,729 

482,066 

474,405 

490,324 

Food  grains 

25,103 

18,941 

19,603 

20,686 

33,681 

Wheat 

25,103 

18,941 

19,603 

20,686 

33,681 

Feed  crops 

135,512 

164,966 

142,651 

150,133 

148,542 

Com 

15,895 

19,604 

18,486 

19,299 

21,627 

Hay 

99,907 

109,641 

114,224 

114,065 

103,694 

Sorghun  grain 

19,096 

35,122 

9,871 

16,769 

23,221 

Cotton 

33,357 

56,313 

54,241 

34,452 

24,727 

Cotton  lint,  all 

28,931 

51,754 

49,193 

32, 196 

22,348 

Upland 

18,540 

31,246 

32,196 

22,005 

13,613 

Long  staple 

10,391 

20,508 

16,997 

10,191 

8,735 

Cottonseed 

4,426 

4,559 

5,048 

2,256 

2,379 

Oi l  crops 

8,891 

12,230 

23,400 

16,177 

19,168 

Peanuts 

8,891 

12,230 

23,400 

16,089 

18,985 

Vegetables 

111,729 

149,434 

136,824 

156,587 

156,100 

Beans,  dry 

6,288 

10,361 

7,833 

5,233 

5,875 

Potatoes 

16,114 

30,080 

26,311 

18,975 

20,257 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


111 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Lettuce 

5,036 

6,251 

1,000  dollars 

4,319 

12,083 

8,854 

Onions 

23,447 

44,400 

28,547 

44,538 

37,485 

Peppers,  chili 

38,555 

41,953 

53,564 

59,219 

67,379 

Hi  sc.  vegetables 

22,000 

16,100 

16,250 

16,250 

16,250 

Frui ts/nuts 

20,985 

32,545 

54,847 

44,980 

53,275 

Apples 

1,950 

1,060 

1,217 

520 

2,535 

Other  berries 

40 

40 

40 

40 

40 

Pecans 

17,420 

29,870 

52,020 

42,920 

49,200 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,575 

1,575 

1,570 

1,500 

1,500 

All  other  crops 

43,200 

50,300 

50,500 

51,390 

54,831 

Other  seeds 

1,000 

2,000 

2,000 

2,000 

2,000 

Other  field  crops 

2,400 

8,500 

8,500 

8,390 

8,390 

Greenhouse/nursery 

39,800 

39,800 

40,000 

41,000 

44,441 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

25,441 

Ornamentals,  other 

39,800 

39,800 

40,000 

41,000 

19,000 

NEW  YORK 

All  comnodities 

2,675,562 

2,855,916 

2,966,160 

2,873,699 

2,946,039 

Livestock  and  products 

1,801,721 

1,936,646 

1,971,071 

1,792,582 

1,914,053 

Meat  animals 

216,321 

202,832 

210,142 

224,467 

225,661 

Cattle  and  calves 

197,847 

183,511 

189,314 

207,574 

211,216 

Hogs 

16,192 

16,895 

18,692 

14,529 

12,018 

Sheep  and  lambs 

2,282 

2,426 

2,136 

2,364 

2,427 

Dairy  products 

1,417,870 

1,545,801 

1,588,790 

1,397,108 

1,527,541 

Milk,  retail 

7,930 

8,651 

9,070 

8,363 

8,651 

Milk,  wholesale 

1,409,940 

1,537,150 

1,579,720 

1,388,745 

1,518,890 

Poultry/eggs 

61,408 

81,892 

77,947 

74,467 

67,249 

Broi lers 

3,825 

5,465 

3,643 

2,835 

1,369 

Chicken  eggs 

39,676 

57,048 

55,331 

52,640 

46,713 

Turkeys 

2,361 

3,440 

4,530 

4,387 

4,268 

Ducks 

8,904 

8,586 

7,952 

7,920 

8,736 

Other  poultry 

5,753 

5,755 

5,563 

6,117 

5,306 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

106,122 

106,121 

94,192 

96,540 

93,602 

Honey 

3,882 

3,050 

2,843 

2,960 

3,003 

Other  livestock 

101,847 

101,738 

90,193 

92,606 

89,475 

Mink  pelts 

3,362 

3,362 

1,892 

979 

942 

All  other  livestock 

98,485 

98,376 

88,301 

91,627 

88,533 

Crops 

873,841 

919,270 

995,089 

1,081,117 

1,031,986 

Food  grains 

16,283 

21,716 

17,708 

15,732 

19,441 

Wheat 

15,672 

20,962 

17,274 

15,300 

18,960 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


112 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Feed  crops 

164,343 

132,582 

144,969 

144,810 

125,306 

Corn 

72,819 

54,560 

66,539 

71,772 

58,666 

Hay 

82,865 

70,324 

72,429 

67,224 

60,626 

Oats 

8,659 

7,698 

6,001 

5,814 

6,014 

Oil  crops 

7,468 

5,324 

7,508 

7,998 

7,895 

Soybeans 

7,468 

5,324 

7,508 

7,886 

7,650 

Vegetables 

286,745 

319,914 

306,369 

342,306 

294,173 

Beans,  dry 

7,223 

11,372 

12,886 

11,039 

8,169 

Potatoes 

57,452 

56,373 

56,234 

60,900 

64,209 

Upstate  NY 

39,892 

38,625 

40,440 

46,621 

49,863 

Long  Island 

17,560 

17,748 

15,794 

14,279 

14,346 

Beans,  snap 

17,540 

31,678 

26,723 

31,007 

15,060 

Fresh 

9,020 

18,603 

13,832 

17,002 

7,385 

Processing 

8,520 

13,075 

12,891 

14,005 

7,675 

Beets 

1,580 

1,767 

2,219 

1,642 

1,785 

Carrots 

4,030 

3,847 

3,745 

7,558 

7,807 

Cauliflower 

8,506 

9,511 

8,408 

9,379 

10,256 

New  York,  L  Island 

4,721 

4,286 

3,754 

4,163 

3,204 

New  York,  Upstate 

3,785 

5,225 

4,654 

5,216 

7,052 

Celery 

3,629 

3,165 

1,523 

2,940 

5,441 

Corn,  sweet 

30,117 

36,695 

34,309 

36,526 

30,692 

Fresh 

24,825 

29,958 

24,380 

28,230 

19,647 

Processing 

5,292 

6,737 

9,929 

8,296 

11,045 

Cucirbers,  fresh 

6,105 

6,527 

5,675 

8,665 

9,948 

Lettuce 

6,833 

7,134 

8,112 

6,965 

7,782 

Onions 

52,226 

48,049 

55,260 

58,010 

49,357 

Peas,  green 

3,376 

4,834 

5,139 

4,995 

5,887 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

17,434 

16,023 

16,397 

14,591 

6,846 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

35,000 

40,600 

36,400 

43,400 

39,200 

Fruits/nuts 

155,082 

167,411 

179,193 

212,797 

195,873 

Apples 

89,060 

98,112 

109,423 

125,228 

129,301 

Fresh 

57,324 

62,703 

74,401 

84,420 

83,896 

Processing 

31,736 

35,409 

35,022 

40,808 

45,405 

Cherries 

5,877 

4,320 

3,285 

12,561 

4,513 

Tart 

4,835 

3,396 

2,765 

11,480 

4,015 

Grapes 

39,936 

42,136 

41,172 

48,789 

38,256 

Peaches 

3,726 

3,622 

3,781 

3,702 

3,595 

Pears 

4,061 

3,631 

3,687 

3,981 

5,357 

Strawberries 

8,772 

11,725 

14,110 

14,421 

11,556 

Other  berries 

1,610 

2,185 

2,415 

1,955 

905 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

2,040 

1,680 

1,320 

2,160 

1,800 

All  other  crops 

243,920 

272,323 

339,342 

357,474 

389,298 

Maple  products 

7,285 

7,768 

5,901 

7,176 

9,360 

Other  seeds 

850 

1,063 

797 

478 

143 

Other  field  crops 

1,401 

1,132 

758 

857 

522 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


113 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Greenhouse/nursery 

232,656 

260,654 

1,000  dollars 

330,803 

346,557 

375,250 

Floriculture 

103,391 

124,926 

208,648 

230,510 

249,919 

Ornamentals,  other 

129,265 

135,728 

122,155 

116,047 

125,331 

Mushrooms 

1,728 

1,706 

1,083 

2,406 

4,023 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

All  conmodities 

4,155,599 

4,621,338 

4,962,498 

4,955,786 

5,181,017 

Livestock  and  products 

2,187,647 

2,510,237 

2,658,805 

2,617,184 

2,794,849 

Meat  animals 

601,233 

657,459 

794,085 

843,245 

918,212 

Cattle  and  calves 

152,879 

148,416 

178,712 

177,673 

188,026 

Hogs 

447,931 

508,792 

615,149 

665,286 

729,750 

Dairy  products 

219,675 

223,782 

234,788 

204,267 

215,350 

Milk,  wholesale 

219,675 

223,782 

234,788 

204,267 

215,350 

Poultry/ eggs 

1,316,481 

1,574,523 

1,577,307 

1,516,882 

1,608,773 

Broi lers 

713,143 

843,180 

803,966 

777,003 

855,729 

Farm  chickens 

10,897 

17,577 

12,439 

10,582 

13,281 

Chicken  eggs 

190,459 

221,628 

209,277 

199,701 

180,047 

Turkeys 

337,982 

406,638 

452,400 

431,346 

475,416 

Other  poultry 

64,000 

85,500 

99,225 

98,250 

84,300 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

50,258 

54,473 

52,625 

52,790 

52,514 

Aquaculture 

5,662 

8,593 

6,054 

6,236 

6,030 

Catfish 

377 

883 

1,154 

1,636 

1,430 

Trout 

5,285 

7,710 

4,900 

4,600 

4,600 

All  other  livestock 

43,825 

44,980 

45,730 

45,750 

45,800 

Crops 

1,967,952 

2,111,101 

2,303,693 

2,338,602 

2,386,168 

Food  grains 

75,004 

80,492 

63,134 

49,227 

83,295 

Uheat 

73,529 

79,490 

62,628 

48,596 

82,800 

Feed  crops 

188,693 

205,584 

207,532 

181,462 

211,153 

Barley 

2,378 

1,831 

1,183 

1,714 

2,296 

Com 

170,671 

189,161 

193,204 

166,355 

194,413 

Hay 

6,933 

6,553 

7,170 

9,150 

10,247 

Oats 

5,602 

3,725 

2,245 

1,573 

2,335 

Sorghun  grain 

3,109 

4,314 

3,730 

2,670 

1,862 

Cotton 

27,929 

50,515 

77,872 

136,129 

143,928 

Cotton  lint,  all 

25,267 

48,274 

73,239 

130,613 

136,947 

Cottonseed 

2,662 

2,241 

4,633 

5,516 

6,981 

Tobacco 

859,017 

946,127 

1,051,602 

1,054,666 

1,049,524 

Oi l  crops 

353,968 

339,251 

370,953 

320,302 

327,778 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


114 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  carmodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Peanuts 

118,436 

108,075 

1,000  dollars 

165,984 

126,506 

126,164 

Soybeans 

235,532 

231,176 

204,969 

193,443 

201,364 

Vegetables 

186,387 

194,532 

217,126 

244,875 

201,642 

Potatoes 

15,122 

19,365 

18,581 

22,938 

27,798 

Spring 

14,092 

17,728 

17,317 

21,090 

25,950 

Sumter 

1,030 

1,637 

1,264 

1,848 

1,848 

Sweetpotatoes 

58,513 

72,715 

51,285 

40,759 

39,775 

Com,  sweet 

4,420 

3,903 

5,138 

4,263 

3,974 

Cucurbers 

20,801 

19,383 

23,163 

23,870 

19,729 

Processing 

20,801 

19,383 

23,163 

23,870 

17,125 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

4,347 

3,804 

5,719 

4,597 

4,848 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

83,000 

75,000 

113,090 

148,078 

89,500 

Fruits/nuts 

56,106 

39,835 

39,914 

53,033 

46,597 

Apples 

27,744 

23,483 

22,558 

23,847 

23,188 

Fresh 

14,933 

14,160 

10,955 

11,418 

12,321 

Processing 

12,811 

9,323 

11,603 

12,429 

10,867 

Peaches 

5,010 

2,100 

2,700 

5,986 

2,352 

Strawberries 

5,834 

4,752 

6,426 

7,030 

7,303 

Blueberries 

12,347 

7,997 

6,655 

9,431 

9,545 

Other  berries 

677 

318 

300 

350 

325 

Pecans 

3,383 

445 

425 

4,975 

2,825 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

54 

50 

50 

70 

45 

All  other  crops 

220,848 

254,765 

275,560 

298,908 

322,251 

Other  seeds 

628 

600 

600 

550 

650 

Other  field  crops 

2,000 

3,200 

3,000 

3,082 

4,000 

Greenhouse/nursery 

217,988 

250,604 

271,767 

294,986 

317,177 

Floriculture 

52,988 

67,604 

71,767 

74,986 

82,177 

Ornamentals,  other 

165,000 

183,000 

200,000 

220,000 

235,000 

NORTH  DAKOTA 

All  coomodities 

2,354,399 

2,140,773 

2,531,265 

2,546,552 

3,093,612 

Livestock  and  products 

850,834 

668,996 

801,362 

669,689 

754,851 

Meat  animals 

702,136 

512,127 

637,032 

519,942 

597,775 

Cattle  and  calves 

651,113 

468,522 

586,249 

473, 193 

549,329 

Hogs 

43,000 

36,397 

45,247 

39,546 

39,533 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

8,023 

7,208 

5,536 

7,203 

8,913 

Dairy  products 

111,289 

122,000 

133,750 

114,695 

118,080 

Milk,  wholesale 

111,289 

122,000 

133,750 

114,695 

118,080 

Poultry/ eggs 

13,213 

13,399 

11,950 

12,110 

10,852 

Chicken  eggs 

1,721 

1,958 

2,346 

1,800 

1,401 

Turkeys 

10,396 

9,946 

8,501 

9,421 

8,619 

Other  poultry 

275 

665 

384 

331 

326 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


115 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

:  1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

24,196 

21,470 

1,000  dollars 

18,630 

22,942 

28,144 

Honey 

6,527 

7,633 

8,954 

11,958 

11,575 

Wool 

1,717 

1,825 

974 

675 

986 

All  other  livestock 

15,952 

11,831 

8,614 

10,233 

15,484 

Crops 

1,503,565 

1,471,777 

1,729,903 

1,876,863 

2,338,761 

Food  grains 

591,634 

665,879 

791,509 

919,985 

1,296,356 

Rye 

1,850 

1,325 

1,103 

1,288 

1,800 

Wheat 

589,784 

664,554 

790,406 

918,697 

1,294,556 

Feed  crops 

357,184 

256,229 

342,211 

335,006 

387,065 

Barley 

252,357 

160,527 

225,059 

211,001 

263,107 

Com 

56,974 

57,015 

68,658 

81,384 

77,320 

Hay 

29,152 

29,561 

33,056 

27,185 

29,277 

Oats 

18,701 

9,126 

15,438 

15,436 

17,361 

Oi  l  crops 

275,288 

238,081 

240,595 

267,820 

277,677 

Soybeans 

80,059 

82,382 

75,754 

89,246 

100,464 

Sunflower 

180,382 

148,804 

149,420 

158,900 

157,360 

Vegetables 

131,875 

164,597 

181,944 

178,917 

208,020 

Beans,  dry 

54,706 

76,345 

94,494 

71,528 

88,768 

Potatoes 

76,569 

87,652 

85,450 

105,389 

117,252 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

600 

600 

2,000 

2,000 

2,000 

Fruits/nuts 

130 

140 

140 

140 

80 

Other  berries 

55 

65 

65 

65 

70 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

75 

75 

75 

75 

10 

All  other  crops 

147,454 

146,851 

173,504 

174,995 

169,563 

Sugarbeets 

113,520 

113,686 

134,371 

141,293 

134,165 

Other  seeds 

362 

376 

314 

201 

604 

Other  field  crops 

8,572 

7,789 

12,819 

6,501 

7,794 

Greenhouse/nursery 

25,000 

25,000 

26,000 

27,000 

27,000 

OHIO 

All  conmodities 

3,811,690 

4,008,382 

4,425,163 

4,164,857 

4,167,316 

Livestock  and  products 

1,594,952 

1,698,460 

1,846,884 

1,681,316 

1,579,993 

Meat  animals 

778,088 

785,114 

846,556 

750,142 

651,956 

Cattle  and  calves 

398,351 

393,034 

390,484 

325,205 

319,996 

Hogs 

369,267 

383,456 

448,991 

415,360 

324,046 

Sheep  and  lambs 

10,470 

8,624 

7,081 

9,577 

7,914 

Dairy  products 

572,874 

606,265 

641,902 

592,455 

624,440 

Milk,  retail 

4,674 

4,605 

HA 

NA 

NA 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


116 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  ccmnodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Milk,  Uiolesale 

568,200 

601,660 

1,000  dollars 

641,902 

592,455 

624,440 

Poultry/ eggs 

211,245 

276,686 

330,155 

311,321 

277,320 

Broi lers 

17,770 

20,880 

26,141 

30,263 

30,428 

Farm  chickens 

4,950 

5,402 

2,225 

1,038 

2,652 

Chicken  eggs 

138,787 

183,414 

229,850 

211,370 

170,296 

Turkeys 

33,696 

45,219 

52,611 

50,580 

54,933 

Other  poultry 

16,042 

21,771 

19,328 

18,070 

19,011 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

32,745 

30,395 

28,271 

27,398 

26,277 

Honey 

1,560 

710 

1,692 

1,845 

851 

Other  livestock 

29,875 

28,337 

25,871 

25,085 

24,908 

Mink  pelts 

4,083 

4,083 

2,252 

1,777 

1,600 

All  other  livestock 

25,792 

24,254 

23,619 

23,308 

23,308 

Crops 

2,216,738 

2,309,922 

2,578,279 

2,483,541 

2,587,323 

Food  grains 

166,812 

232,226 

208,802 

164,405 

183,901 

Wheat 

166,367 

231,882 

208,477 

164,112 

183,582 

Feed  crops 

546,732 

718,463 

890,720 

831,268 

877,761 

Com 

446,878 

610,508 

782,323 

752,226 

779,039 

Hay 

86,905 

97,310 

96,938 

74,132 

92,417 

Oats 

12,949 

10,645 

11,459 

4,910 

6,305 

Tobacco 

20,930 

29,125 

30,881 

37,053 

42,169 

Oil  crops 

886,032 

662,943 

772,105 

745,088 

786,406 

Soybeans 

886,032 

662,943 

772,105 

744,055 

785,599 

Vegetables 

109,844 

144,431 

139,998 

158,724 

128,283 

Potatoes 

11,379 

11,687 

11,532 

12,003 

18,933 

Sumner 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

8,807 

Fall 

11,379 

11,687 

11,532 

12,003 

10,126 

Celery 

1,890 

2,083 

1,262 

1,479 

756 

Com,  sweet,  fresh 

6,705 

12,831 

13,471 

11,368 

7,946 

Cucuibers 

7,181 

7,701 

10,454 

10,984 

10,469 

Onions 

2,500 

2,728 

2,251 

2,540 

2,620 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

5,885 

14,465 

12,083 

26,240 

13,995 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

41,973 

56,608 

53,570 

56,330 

33,071 

Fruits/nuts 

32,113 

33,019 

33,677 

42,146 

42,946 

Apples 

20,262 

20,513 

20,961 

29,745 

24,588 

Fresh 

18,571 

19,449 

19,138 

27,809 

22,711 

Processing 

1,691 

1,064 

1,823 

1,936 

1,877 

Grapes 

2,349 

2,129 

2,343 

2,498 

2,732 

Peaches 

1,860 

2,720 

2,090 

2,320 

5,320 

Strawberries 

5,037 

4,400 

5,112 

3,710 

5,964 

Other  berries 

1,962 

2,664 

2,502 

3,204 

3,673 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

643 

593 

669 

669 

669 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


117 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

All  other  crops 

454,275 

489,715 

502,096 

504,857 

525,857 

Sugarbeets 

8,237 

8,119 

12,674 

12,077 

13,382 

Other  seeds 

408 

833 

419 

419 

419 

Other  field  crops 

24,299 

40,083 

31,749 

29,921 

26,025 

Greenhouse/nursery 

409,904 

427,385 

443,043 

448,369 

470,541 

Floriculture 

111,534 

117,512 

119,835 

126,883 

143,172 

Ornamentals,  other 

298,370 

309,873 

323,208 

321,486 

327,369 

OKLAHOMA 

All  corrmodities 

3,386,447 

3,514,760 

3,548,467 

3,856,406 

3,634,931 

Livestock  and  products 

2,271,175 

2,377,463 

2,341,613 

2,788,2 77 

2,497,677 

Meat  animals 

1,831,070 

1,857,356 

1,830,509 

2,299,148 

1,980,644 

Cattle  and  calves 

1,787,104 

1,812,051 

1,770,426 

2,246,824 

1,930,949 

Hogs 

39,450 

40,373 

57,325 

49,039 

44,673 

Sheep  and  lantos 

4,516 

4,932 

2,758 

3,285 

5,022 

Dairy  products 

148,350 

168,280 

174,460 

152,400 

166,455 

Milk,  kliolesale 

148,350 

168,280 

174,460 

152,400 

166,455 

Poultry/ eggs 

234,235 

296,537 

280,973 

279,390 

295,784 

Broi lers 

155,598 

197,584 

181,021 

189,453 

203,878 

Farm  chickens 

2,769 

3,675 

2,318 

2,301 

2,294 

Chicken  eggs 

57,102 

71,766 

73,141 

69, 167 

69,840 

Other  poultry 

5,000 

5,000 

5,100 

6,100 

8,600 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

57,520 

55,290 

55,671 

57,339 

54,794 

Acjuaculture 

3,011 

966 

2,235 

1,954 

1,183 

Crops 

1,115,272 

1,137,297 

1,206,854 

1,068,129 

1,137,254 

Food  grains 

510,121 

521,643 

490,453 

431,328 

494,444 

Rye 

1,657 

768 

705 

1,106 

1,335 

Wheat 

508,464 

520,875 

489,748 

430,222 

493,109 

Feed  crops 

110,371 

125,601 

119,666 

91,872 

115,119 

Com 

8,490 

15,508 

18,951 

20,211 

26,731 

Hay 

68,905 

67,516 

61,864 

49,199 

55,988 

Oats 

4,121 

1,810 

1,653 

794 

1,605 

Sorghum  grain 

27,937 

39,577 

35,989 

21,005 

30,143 

Cotton 

104,921 

93,386 

123,619 

84,252 

68,755 

Cotton  lint,  all 

93,579 

84,248 

108,550 

74,307 

60,831 

Cottonseed 

11,342 

9,138 

15,069 

9,945 

7,924 

Oi  l  crops 

91,195 

94,304 

129,632 

98,199 

108,130 

Peanuts 

61,661 

60,682 

99,070 

69,483 

76,522 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


118 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  cormodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -conti nued 


State  and  cormodity 

1988 

:  1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Soybeans 

29,534 

33,622 

1,000  dollars 
30,562 

28,577 

31,311 

Vegetables 

37,835 

41,495 

39,154 

40,364 

41,113 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

37,565 

40,535 

39,100 

39,500 

34,500 

Fruits/nuts 

30,782 

15,273 

8,511 

26,106 

16,289 

Peaches 

6,864 

6,683 

2,795 

8,022 

1,459 

Other  berries 

2,440 

2,440 

950 

4,310 

4,650 

Pecans 

20,398 

5,710 

4,566 

13,524 

9,930 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,080 

440 

200 

250 

250 

All  other  crops 

230,047 

245,595 

295,819 

296,008 

293,404 

Other  seeds 

12,925 

8,620 

9,500 

9,500 

5,000 

Other  field  crops 

2,042 

2,685 

2,770 

2,275 

2,335 

Greenhouse/nursery 

205,535 

224,000 

273,000 

273,000 

274,000 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

14,346 

Ornamentals,  other 

205,535 

224,000 

273,000 

273,000 

259,654 

OREGON 

All  comnodities 

2,174,945 

2,281,923 

2,371,412 

2,524,544 

2,489,821 

Livestock  and  products 

670,509 

737,776 

751,986 

825,518 

795,305 

Meat  animals 

366,178 

383,691 

386,805 

470,999 

418,641 

Cattle  and  calves 

328,020 

344,161 

356,050 

441,893 

391,792 

Hogs 

19,263 

17,441 

17,138 

14,135 

11,882 

Sheep  and  larrbs 

18,895 

22,089 

13,617 

14,971 

14,967 

Dairy  products 

181,880 

200,468 

213,011 

203,610 

225,642 

Milk,  retail 

11,512 

12,140 

12,767 

12,558 

12,767 

Milk,  wholesale 

170,368 

188,328 

200,244 

191,052 

212,875 

Poultry/ eggs 

78,192 

104,318 

104,406 

106,210 

111,586 

Broi lers 

27,403 

32,200 

34,141 

34,253 

37,440 

Chicken  eggs 

26,737 

42,714 

41,728 

42,646 

43,790 

Turkeys 

13,932 

17,010 

18,354 

14,805 

17,784 

Other  poultry 

9,700 

11,956 

10,043 

14,397 

12,425 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

44,259 

49,299 

47,764 

44,699 

39,436 

Honey 

1,560 

1,278 

1,383 

1,443 

1,580 

Wool 

3,034 

2,784 

1,664 

1,022 

1,321 

Other  livestock 

39,665 

43,829 

43,163 

41,642 

35,943 

Mink  pelts 

8,237 

8,237 

6,356 

5,225 

5,119 

All  other  livestock 

31,428 

35,592 

36,807 

36,417 

30,824 

Crops 

1,504,436 

1,544,147 

1,619,426 

1,699,026 

1,694,516 

Food  grains 

196,842 

241,349 

153,803 

174,376 

182,280 

Wheat 

196,689 

241,222 

153,790 

174,376 

182,280 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


119 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  corrmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Feed  crops 

135,521 

119,228 

150,918 

148,659 

115,230 

Barley 

32,266 

24,512 

18,945 

22,164 

19,080 

Com 

6,832 

7,128 

6,366 

5,087 

4,455 

Hay 

86,195 

77,790 

119,391 

116,111 

85,837 

Oats 

10,228 

9,798 

6,216 

5,297 

5,858 

Oi  l  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

588 

1,001 

Vegetables 

284,965 

307,896 

350,938 

331,406 

353,393 

Beans,  dry 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,842 

2,837 

Potatoes 

72,707 

96,741 

123,500 

103,736 

90,243 

Fall 

7,923 

9,295 

11,773 

11,420 

12,190 

Other 

64,784 

87,446 

111,727 

92,316 

78,053 

Beans,  snap 

21,787 

30,622 

27,402 

25,381 

24,762 

Broccoli 

6,023 

6,303 

6,293 

5,275 

5,677 

Carrots 

5,373 

6,884 

8,570 

8,375 

12,601 

Cauliflower 

7,796 

8,437 

9,654 

8,635 

9,453 

Corn,  sweet 

31,382 

37,423 

39,339 

38,784 

37,962 

Fresh 

6,182 

5,630 

5,440 

5,148 

6,100 

Processing 

25,200 

31,793 

33,899 

33,636 

31,862 

Onions 

93,057 

69,020 

80,814 

84,299 

113,439 

Storage 

77,479 

55,849 

66,317 

71,817 

92,165 

Storage- West 

15,578 

13,171 

14,497 

12,482 

21,274 

Peas,  green 

7,188 

10,578 

10,995 

14,454 

8,472 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

32,704 

34,666 

36,855 

32,649 

40,126 

Fruits/nuts 

204,658 

187,870 

202,567 

236,355 

257,908 

Apples 

14,529 

14,141 

14,278 

24,509 

22,311 

Fresh 

12,752 

12,280 

11,063 

20,315 

18,409 

Processing 

1,777 

1,861 

3,215 

4,194 

3,902 

Cherries 

39,600 

29,782 

26,720 

35,814 

50,059 

Sweet 

38,820 

27,530 

25,752 

33,600 

47,670 

Tart 

780 

2,252 

968 

2,214 

2,389 

Grapes 

NA 

5,513 

5,460 

8,064 

9,717 

Peaches 

3,657 

3,093 

4,342 

4,624 

4,511 

Pears 

53,471 

55,871 

58,567 

63,430 

66,740 

Bartlett 

17,223 

16,415 

20,238 

19,058 

19,601 

Other 

36,248 

39,456 

38,329 

44,372 

47,139 

PI uns  and  prirtes 

2,526 

1,934 

2,641 

845 

2,456 

Cranberries 

6,915 

7,875 

9,408 

9,582 

13,452 

Strawberries 

31,423 

24,621 

30,388 

31,416 

21,105 

Blueberries 

7,707 

7,708 

6,950 

8,115 

12,010 

Blackberries 

13,298 

10,623 

15,397 

18,750 

19,284 

Other  berries 

97 

28 

30 

48 

48 

Fi Iberts 

13,904 

10,458 

16,835 

18,368 

15,180 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

5,765 

1,050 

1,394 

632 

1,248 

All  other  crops 

682,450 

687,804 

761,200 

807,642 

784,704 

Sugarbeets 

15,303 

15,953 

18,446 

19,268 

14,570 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


120 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Alfalfa 

7,649 

5,759 

8,548 

7,739 

5,375 

Bent grass 

10,992 

15,655 

16,712 

17,057 

12,062 

Bluegrass-Kentucky 

21,122 

13,461 

13,266 

11,325 

11,013 

Crimson  clover 

2,549 

2,929 

3,896 

3,814 

4,104 

Fescue 

63,647 

54,663 

64,713 

64,518 

43,309 

Chew 

8,813 

7,906 

6,832 

5,774 

6,849 

Red 

5,647 

4,601 

2,710 

2,922 

3,305 

Tall 

49,187 

42,156 

55,171 

55,822 

33,155 

Orchardgrass 

12,423 

9,115 

7,975 

6,901 

8,865 

Red  clover 

7,686 

7,987 

5,617 

5,146 

7,088 

Ryegrass 

100,837 

102,836 

90,333 

86,989 

92,025 

Other  seeds 

23,312 

21,611 

23,199 

23,910 

28,863 

Hops 

18,081 

18,737 

17,707 

17,397 

21,849 

Mint 

49,266 

44,887 

52,631 

46,720 

51,121 

Peppermi nt 

47,712 

43,312 

50,370 

44,080 

48,571 

Spearmint 

1,554 

1,575 

2,261 

2,640 

2,550 

Other  field  crops 

21,842 

20,103 

15,928 

22,794 

19,038 

Christmas  trees 

57,229 

56,848 

65,208 

67,651 

70,753 

Greenhouse/nursery 

251,354 

276,417 

334,904 

382,976 

369,618 

Floriculture 

42,915 

43,981 

49,220 

53,727 

51,039 

Ornamentals,  other 

208,439 

232,436 

285,684 

329,249 

318,579 

PENNSYLVANIA 

All  commodities 

3,292,112 

3,595,148 

3,680,180 

3,401,890 

3,618,490 

Livestock  and  products 

2,337,144 

2,610,697 

2,653,026 

2,405,056 

2,554,251 

Meat  animals 

508,743 

562,456 

653,295 

599,317 

561,424 

Cattle  and  calves 

385,906 

416,377 

469,950 

448,111 

430,706 

Hogs 

119,655 

141,315 

179,923 

146,728 

126,094 

Sheep  and  lambs 

3,182 

4,764 

3,422 

4,478 

4,624 

Dairy  products 

1,343,715 

1,452,531 

1,435,050 

1,285,152 

1,485,184 

Milk,  retail 

58,605 

56,181 

NA 

NA 

65,326 

Milk,  wholesale 

1,285,110 

1,396,350 

1,435,050 

1,285,152 

1,419,858 

Poultry/eggs 

436,988 

546,318 

516,791 

470,351 

461,032 

Broi lers 

175,883 

203,171 

187,272 

174,013 

183,142 

Farm  chickens 

5,450 

13,617 

7,391 

5,105 

6,086 

Chicken  eggs 

186,095 

257,240 

252,947 

222,300 

197,090 

Turkeys 

69,520 

72,240 

69,126 

68,880 

74,659 

Other  poultry 

40 

50 

55 

53 

55 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

47,698 

49,392 

47,890 

50,236 

46,611 

Honey 

1,387 

991 

769 

1,260 

873 

Aquaculture 

NA 

4,333 

6,140 

4,161 

4,161 

Other  livestock 

45,725 

43,505 

40,693 

44,610 

41,265 

Mink  pelts 

5,255 

5,255 

2,433 

4,360 

1,815 

All  other  livestock 

40,470 

38,250 

38,260 

40,250 

39,450 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


121 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  canrodity 

1988  : 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Crops 

954,968 

964,451 

1,000  dollars 

1,027,154 

996,834 

1,064,239 

Food  grains 

27,201 

26,331 

23,435 

17,701 

25,210 

Uheat 

26,321 

25,627 

22,828 

17,326 

24,380 

Feed  crops 

199,488 

160,929 

176,360 

163,331 

197,723 

Barley 

2,890 

3,608 

1,938 

1,351 

2,124 

Com 

97,638 

63,112 

85,235 

70,430 

84,361 

Hay 

89,243 

84,166 

83,552 

88,359 

107,430 

Oats 

9,717 

10,043 

5,635 

3,191 

3,808 

Tobacco 

20,780 

24,709 

36,297 

29,274 

27,233 

Oil  crops 

42,548 

46,192 

51,273 

46,995 

49,665 

Soybeans 

42,548 

46,192 

51,273 

46,861 

49,355 

Vegetables 

73,742 

106,298 

97,320 

76,022 

100,890 

Potatoes 

22,967 

32,980 

39,375 

30,696 

31,728 

Beans,  snap 

2,550 

3,286 

5,281 

2,049 

3,447 

Com,  sweet 

15,059 

30,917 

17,182 

15,018 

21,323 

Fresh 

14,515 

30,389 

16,234 

14,366 

20,572 

Tomatoes 

16,315 

20,426 

15,466 

10,104 

17,815 

Fresh 

14,200 

17,120 

12,159 

7,534 

15,065 

Processing 

2,115 

3,306 

3,307 

2,570 

2,750 

Misc.  vegetables 

16,000 

18,000 

18,200 

17,600 

18,000 

Fruits/nuts 

95,130 

86,765 

90,712 

110,828 

98,267 

Apples 

47,132 

34,295 

37,911 

54,012 

46,065 

Fresh 

24,696 

13,019 

17,085 

27,798 

20,232 

Processing 

22,436 

21,276 

20,826 

26,214 

25,833 

Cherries 

3,813 

2,002 

1,012 

7,068 

3,299 

Sweet 

1,512 

975 

81 

1,530 

1,653 

Tart 

2,301 

1,027 

931 

5,538 

1,646 

Grapes 

13,494 

16,456 

15,098 

17,864 

14,652 

Peaches 

14,678 

16,799 

21,993 

18,119 

20,071 

Pears 

1,654 

2,128 

1,033 

1,860 

2,090 

Strawberries 

8,159 

8,585 

7,665 

6,405 

6,490 

Other  berries 

3,900 

4,000 

3,000 

2,800 

2,800 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

2,300 

2,500 

3,000 

2,700 

2,800 

All  other  crops 

496,079 

533,227 

551,757 

552,683 

565,251 

Other  seeds 

600 

600 

600 

620 

650 

Other  field  crops 

2,750 

2,900 

3,000 

2,600 

2,700 

Greenhouse/nursery 

282,030 

292,584 

287,142 

293,375 

304,749 

Floriculture 

92,030 

92,584 

97,142 

100,375 

104,749 

Ornamentals,  other 

190,000 

200,000 

190,000 

193,000 

200,000 

Mushrooms 

210,699 

237,143 

261,015 

256,088 

254,815 

RHODE  ISLAND 

All  conmodities 

79,072 

78,317 

71,346 

69,293 

72,218 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


122 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  gnxpe  and  selected  corrmodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Livestock  and  products 

13,340 

12,856 

13,732 

12,389 

12,691 

Meat  animals 

2,050 

1,468 

1,788 

1,703 

1,536 

Cattle  and  calves 

1,689 

1,011 

1,141 

1,087 

1,022 

Dairy  products 

5,450 

5,185 

5,347 

4,476 

4,512 

Milk,  wholesale 

4,655 

4,320 

4,440 

4,476 

4,512 

Poultry/ eggs 

4,079 

4,449 

5,200 

4,819 

4,989 

Chicken  eggs 

3,597 

3,987 

4,505 

4,125 

4,323 

Other  poultry 

465 

400 

652 

660 

651 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

1,761 

1,754 

1,397 

1,391 

1,654 

Aquaculture 

NA 

NA 

200 

200 

250 

Other  livestock 

1,715 

1,700 

1,165 

1,145 

1,153 

Crops 

65,732 

65,461 

57,614 

56,904 

59,527 

Feed  crops 

650 

600 

577 

597 

665 

Vegetables 

7,702 

7,937 

6,358 

5,983 

5,648 

Potatoes 

1,702 

1,937 

1,833 

1,653 

2,190 

Misc.  vegetables 

6,000 

6,000 

4,525 

4,330 

3,458 

Fruits/nuts 

3,920 

3,424 

4,179 

2,824 

2,784 

Apples 

1,320 

1,424 

1,439 

1,261 

1,004 

Other  berries 

1,000 

1,000 

2,200 

1,288 

1,370 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

1,600 

1,000 

540 

275 

410 

All  other  crops 

53,460 

53,500 

46,51X1 

47,500 

50,430 

Other  field  crops 

15,460 

15,500 

7,500 

7,500 

9,180 

Greenhouse/nursery 

38,000 

38,000 

39,000 

40,000 

41,250 

SOUTH  CAROLINA 

All  comnodities 

1,104,622 

1,236,121 

1,168,677 

1,226,129 

1,176,746 

Livestock  and  products 

491,273 

555,796 

581,421 

548,715 

545,246 

Meat  animals 

193,426 

221,768 

234,011 

211,505 

188,491 

Cattle  and  calves 

141,786 

149,581 

147,284 

135,213 

127,805 

Hogs 

51,640 

72,187 

86,727 

76,268 

60,674 

Dairy  products 

70,916 

71,463 

72,003 

55,073 

58,099 

Milk,  retail 

3,428 

3,395 

3,256 

3,349 

3,349 

Milk,  wholesale 

67,488 

68,068 

68,747 

51,724 

54,750 

Poultry/ eggs 

218,769 

254,100 

264,207 

270,229 

286,879 

Broi lers 

89,248 

109,205 

107,969 

116,475 

136,317 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


123 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -conti rued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Farm  chickens 

2,051 

2,479 

1,000  dollars 

1,423 

1,538 

2,731 

Chicken  eggs 

62,173 

75,264 

82,950 

77,982 

69,094 

Turkeys 

60,797 

62,632 

63,745 

65,934 

70,637 

Other  poultry 

4,500 

4,520 

8,120 

8,300 

8,100 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

8,162 

8,465 

11,200 

11,908 

11,777 

Other  livestock 

7,780 

8,030 

8,480 

9,400 

10,390 

Crops 

613,349 

680,325 

587,256 

677,414 

631,500 

Food  grains 

44,090 

66,577 

45,347 

24,467 

41,880 

Wheat 

43,145 

65,632 

44,434 

23,423 

40,819 

Feed  crops 

48,692 

61,596 

50,212 

47,281 

58,072 

Com 

36,419 

50,365 

40,570 

36,490 

48,912 

Hay 

8,048 

7,946 

6,921 

8,835 

6,686 

Oats 

3,319 

2,074 

1,212 

893 

1,079 

Cotton 

36,143 

49,311 

52,803 

74,950 

74,433 

Cotton  lint,  all 

32,214 

45,708 

48,858 

70,720 

69,930 

Cottonseed 

3,929 

3,603 

3,945 

4,230 

4,503 

Tobacco 

158,297 

178,412 

174,416 

190,553 

190,448 

Oi l  crops 

135,952 

133,292 

89,447 

93,804 

88,001 

Peanuts 

9,601 

10,725 

11,982 

9,979 

9,425 

Soybeans 

126,351 

122,567 

77,465 

83,415 

78,110 

Vegetables 

57,830 

61,943 

62,626 

102,994 

52,678 

Sweetpotatoes 

3,853 

4,909 

3,329 

3,561 

3,187 

Beans,  snap,  fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

1,727 

Cucumbers 

8,588 

8,009 

10,311 

7,487 

6,052 

Processing 

8,588 

8,009 

10,311 

7,487 

4,562 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

26,936 

24,851 

28,024 

58,300 

22,450 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

18,281 

23,912 

20,851 

33,570 

15,562 

Fruits/nuts 

63,311 

53,401 

29,570 

53,410 

29,047 

Apples 

4,343 

3,975 

4,185 

3,646 

7,501 

Fresh 

3,104 

2,568 

2,834 

1,810 

5,260 

Processing 

1,239 

1,407 

1,351 

1,836 

2,241 

Peaches 

53,592 

46,974 

23,075 

42,480 

19,715 

Other  berries 

1,578 

1,670 

1,479 

2,381 

1,104 

Pecans 

3,601 

620 

526 

4,601 

351 

All  other  crops 

69,034 

75,793 

82,835 

89,955 

96,941 

Other  seeds 

1,186 

1,265 

1,015 

1,176 

1,169 

Other  field  crops 

462 

528 

813 

772 

772 

Ornamentals,  other 

67,004 

74,000 

81,007 

88,007 

79,688 

SOUTH  DAKOTA 

All  commodities 

2,989,322 

2,982,209 

3,260,859 

3,313,596 

3,229,480 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


124 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Livestock  and  products 

2,109,525 

2,031,307 

2,294,061 

2,125,131 

1,966,368 

Meat  animals 

1,847,565 

1,747,569 

1,997,178 

1,844,325 

1,675,297 

Cattle  and  calves 

1,491,190 

1,375,061 

1,561,376 

1,419,522 

1,296,452 

Hogs 

321,227 

335,233 

409,037 

396,845 

346,693 

Sheep  and  lambs 

35,148 

37,275 

26,765 

27,958 

32,152 

Dairy  products 

198,950 

220,332 

221,130 

200,860 

210,816 

Milk,  wholesale 

198,950 

220,332 

221,130 

200,860 

210,816 

Poultry/eggs 

36,252 

41,170 

52,499 

56,948 

57,676 

Chicken  eggs 

8,990 

14,609 

17,400 

22,976 

18,688 

Turkeys 

24,641 

23,492 

28,735 

29,160 

29,694 

Other  poultry 

1,456 

1,975 

5,129 

3,698 

8,068 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

26,758 

22,236 

23,254 

22,998 

22,579 

Honey 

8,340 

5,184 

9,923 

12,272 

11,016 

Wool 

7,040 

6,657 

4,254 

3,069 

3,686 

Other  livestock 

11,378 

10,395 

9,077 

7,657 

7,877 

Mink  pelts 

3,075 

3,075 

1,762 

1,606 

1,885 

All  other  livestock 

8,303 

7,320 

7,315 

6,051 

5,992 

Crops 

879,797 

950,902 

966,798 

1,188,465 

1,263,112 

Food  grains 

179,775 

264,678 

261,825 

339,141 

383,885 

Rye 

3,829 

4,512 

3,357 

2,225 

2,458 

Wheat 

175,946 

260,166 

258,468 

336,916 

381,427 

Feed  crops 

370,961 

349,930 

357,245 

439,652 

456,940 

Barley 

36,011 

29,912 

22,614 

24,406 

22,907 

Com 

244,463 

230,138 

233,761 

343,914 

340,989 

Hay 

27,385 

37,917 

38,861 

40,899 

50,810 

Oats 

50,767 

39,022 

47,613 

16,904 

29,436 

Sorghum  grain 

12,335 

12,941 

14,396 

13,529 

12,798 

Oil  crops 

281,573 

303,976 

301,222 

353,359 

357,810 

Soybeans 

260,560 

272,366 

267,879 

309,165 

308,069 

Sunflower 

19,553 

30,198 

31,314 

41,302 

46,785 

Vegetables 

7,591 

8,703 

10,987 

9,163 

10,098 

Potatoes 

6,521 

8,091 

9,154 

8,280 

7,008 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

1,070 

612 

1,833 

883 

3,090 

Frui ts/nuts 

130 

130 

161 

161 

137 

Other  berries 

80 

80 

80 

80 

56 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

50 

50 

81 

81 

81 

All  other  crops 

39,767 

23,485 

35,358 

46,989 

54,242 

Other  seeds 

11,099 

2,927 

8,280 

7,544 

1,912 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


125 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  cornnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Other  field  crops 

21,313 

13,410 

1,000  dollars 

19,903 

32,302 

45,204 

Greenh ouse/nurse ry 

7,090 

7,090 

7,090 

7,090 

7,090 

TENNESSEE 

All  comnodities 

1,925,308 

1,945,650 

2,056,909 

1,936,439 

2,103,471 

Livestock  and  products 

1,055,748 

1,082,435 

1,110,587 

1,043,782 

1,061,246 

Meat  animals 

637,056 

611,362 

635,830 

598,953 

579,972 

Cattle  and  calves 

504,832 

451,524 

497,213 

484,791 

478,167 

Hogs 

131,867 

159,393 

138,247 

113,768 

101,609 

Dairy  products 

266,100 

285,316 

302,606 

260,985 

287,980 

Milk,  retail 

2,135 

1,726 

1,256 

NA 

NA 

Milk,  wholesale 

263,965 

283,590 

301,350 

260,985 

287,980 

Poultry/ eggs 

134,295 

167,599 

147,641 

159,782 

169,198 

Chicken  eggs 

20,393 

21,557 

16,204 

18,763 

15,895 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

18,297 

18,158 

24,510 

24,062 

24,096 

All  other  livestock 

16,550 

16,550 

22,750 

22,680 

22,680 

Crops 

869,560 

863,215 

946,322 

892,657 

1,042,225 

Food  grains 

61,527 

67,648 

48,749 

21,533 

39,399 

Wheat 

61,527 

67,648 

48,749 

21,533 

39,399 

Feed  crops 

76,792 

100,614 

99,433 

89,032 

113,120 

Com 

49,897 

70,530 

66,831 

57,313 

79,857 

Hay 

22,991 

26,243 

25,775 

23,010 

23,739 

Sorghum  grain 

3,904 

3,841 

6,827 

8,709 

9,524 

Cotton 

157,872 

168,046 

196,810 

173,251 

246,996 

Cotton  lint,  all 

132,455 

151,433 

176,152 

156,085 

219,439 

Cottonseed 

25,417 

16,613 

20,658 

17,166 

27,557 

Tobacco 

136,456 

147,509 

186,379 

209,638 

246,389 

Oi l  crops 

224,160 

176,007 

192,142 

185,272 

180,184 

Soybeans 

224,160 

176,007 

192,142 

184,681 

179,967 

Vegetables 

47,340 

34,414 

47,990 

48,160 

47,224 

Beans,  snap 

1,764 

2,184 

2,047 

1,992 

6,813 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

5,197 

Processing 

1,764 

2,184 

2,047 

1,992 

1,616 

Tomatoes 

19,656 

12,600 

20,640 

17,766 

15,120 

Misc.  vegetables 

24,173 

17,867 

25,303 

28,402 

25,291 

Fruits/nuts 

11,807 

8,953 

9,276 

10,594 

10,563 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


126 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Apples 

1,715 

1,480 

1,523 

2,001 

2,184 

Peaches 

2,673 

443 

407 

1,740 

1,451 

Other  berries 

6,702 

6,499 

6,656 

6,156 

6,421 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

717 

531 

690 

697 

507 

All  other  crops 

153,606 

160,024 

165,543 

155,177 

158,350 

Other  seeds 

429 

664 

543 

560 

565 

Other  field  crops 

4,954 

8,020 

7,504 

4,292 

5,763 

Greenhouse/nursery 

126,551 

128,944 

135,540 

128,646 

130,682 

Floriculture 

20,458 

22,851 

25,040 

26,646 

26,082 

Ornamentals,  other 

106,093 

106,093 

110,500 

102,000 

104,600 

TEXAS 

All  conmodities 

10,349,324 

10,919,946 

11,826,661 

12,216,963 

11,619,842 

Livestock  and  products 

6,628,558 

6,860,870 

7,7 50,906 

7,880,901 

7, 523,088 

Meat  animals 

5,203,218 

5,219,275 

6,015,070 

6,275,437 

5,792,510 

Cattle  and  calves 

5,036,290 

5,049,760 

5,855,497 

6,115,818 

5,644,620 

Hogs 

99,144 

92,283 

90,501 

95,155 

75,505 

Sheep  and  larrbs 

67,784 

77,232 

69,072 

64,464 

72,385 

Dairy  products 

639,144 

734,679 

808,647 

683,260 

760,213 

Milk,  retail 

4,884 

4,521 

NA 

NA 

NA 

Milk,  wholesale 

634,260 

730,158 

808,647 

683,260 

760,213 

Poultry/ eggs 

643,881 

777,363 

801,757 

787,903 

816,621 

Broi lers 

391,461 

482,744 

508,841 

508,939 

553,784 

Farm  chickens 

3,772 

3,444 

2,288 

2,285 

1,330 

Chicken  eggs 

181,882 

223,295 

212,012 

203,038 

181,755 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

142,315 

129,553 

125,432 

134,301 

153,744 

Honey 

3,985 

3,842 

5,534 

5,897 

5,738 

Mohair 

28,876 

24,794 

13,775 

19,388 

12,354 

Wool 

35,854 

27,180 

19,662 

13,861 

16,896 

Aquaculture 

HA 

1,136 

5,860 

2,555 

3,156 

All  other  livestock 

73,600 

72,600 

80,600 

92,600 

115,600 

Crops 

3,720,766 

4,059,076 

4,075,755 

4,336,062 

4,096,754 

Food  grains 

435,766 

357,092 

481,622 

384,512 

540,453 

Rice 

151,544 

123,097 

165,263 

153,199 

152,355 

Uheat 

283,929 

233,806 

316,134 

230,934 

387,529 

Feed  crops 

823,267 

852,537 

757,509 

968,901 

1,148,491 

Com 

353,373 

362,132 

310,799 

422,261 

464,384 

Hay 

118,274 

129,381 

122,515 

127,870 

121,825 

Oats 

7,207 

6,582 

7,929 

4,995 

6,005 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


127 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/-- continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Sorghun  grain 

343,243 

353,346 

1,000  dollars 

315,028 

413,197 

555,752 

Cotton 

1,350,307 

1,649,319 

1,452,747 

1,633,936 

1,033,838 

Cotton  lint,  all 

1,150,971 

1,506,656 

1,264,988 

1,505,831 

911,019 

Upland 

1,127,635 

1,445,756 

1,214,613 

1,471,558 

895,058 

Long  staple 

23,336 

60,900 

50,375 

34,273 

15,961 

Cottonseed 

199,336 

142,663 

187,759 

128,105 

122,819 

Oi  l  crops 

152,230 

191,019 

271,637 

219,488 

236,052 

Peanuts 

111,890 

134,262 

224,018 

191,100 

182,960 

Soybeans 

38,108 

50,797 

42,078 

25,496 

47,601 

Sunflower 

2,232 

5,960 

5,541 

2,879 

5,391 

Vegetables 

365,519 

361,297 

367,945 

407,771 

310,223 

Beans,  dry 

NA 

NA 

2,210 

5,211 

4,739 

Potatoes 

27,968 

40,459 

46,785 

28,690 

22,131 

Spring 

7,728 

4,521 

12,650 

6,850 

6,696 

Sumter 

20,240 

35,938 

34,135 

21,840 

15,435 

Sweetpotatoes 

9,186 

11,910 

7,101 

10,791 

11,458 

Broccoli 

10,590 

14,706 

6,255 

6,251 

8,259 

Carrots 

17,584 

19,476 

7,322 

14,331 

11,744 

Cauliflower 

1,980 

1,482 

678 

564 

515 

Celery 

11,513 

11,617 

2,576 

7,409 

5,363 

Com,  sweet 

2,100 

1,738 

2,232 

1,568 

1,118 

Cucumbers 

14,413 

17,988 

16,285 

15,783 

18,522 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

7,118 

6,444 

4,444 

Processing 

14,413 

17,988 

9,167 

9,339 

14,078 

Lettuce 

8,752 

7,582 

311 

1,680 

862 

Onions 

48,455 

53,540 

57,299 

72,619 

61,022 

Spring 

38,640 

34,508 

42,840 

54,091 

51,402 

Sumter,  nonstorage 

9,815 

19,032 

14,459 

18,528 

9,620 

Peppers,  green 

NA 

NA 

28,050 

21,870 

28,277 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

28,277 

Spinach 

NA 

NA 

7,205 

5,832 

11,693 

Fresh 

NA 

NA 

7,205 

5,832 

6,688 

Processing 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

5,005 

Tomatoes,  fresh 

6,739 

4,763 

3,042 

2,075 

2,191 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

182,228 

160,707 

14,445 

18,496 

16,453 

Horteydews 

20,640 

10,547 

17,145 

20,215 

12,096 

Watermelons 

NA 

NA 

47,588 

72,038 

34,320 

Fruits/nuts 

70,393 

86,957 

91,732 

80,402 

101,551 

Grapefruit 

21,456 

22,580 

8,029 

1,014 

1,940 

Fresh  pink  seedless 

17,224 

21,171 

7,471 

1,014 

1,920 

Proc.  pink  seedless 

4,232 

1,409 

558 

NA 

20 

Oranges 

10,988 

13,244 

4,315 

285 

919 

Nav.,  fr.  early&mid 

6,231 

7,082 

3,254 

285 

779 

Valencias,  fresh 

3,596 

3,793 

NA 

NA 

131 

Peaches 

5,748 

5,000 

7,175 

8,772 

7,696 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


128 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Pecans 

31,500 

44,250 

1,000  dollars 

69,000 

66,000 

87,300 

Misc.  fruits  &  nuts 

701 

1,883 

3,213 

4,331 

3,696 

All  other  crops 

523,284 

560,855 

652,563 

641,052 

726,146 

Sugarbeets 

27,185 

30,686 

37,832 

20,600 

25,727 

Cane  for  sugar 

26,765 

17,430 

23,845 

27,750 

33,308 

Sorghun  Sudan  crosses 

8,000 

6,000 

5,000 

6,000 

5,000 

Other  seeds 

189 

116 

28 

17 

21 

Other  field  crops 

3,226 

1,550 

2,000 

1,080 

2,350 

Greenhouse/nursery 

430,000 

477,000 

556,000 

556,000 

628,000 

Floriculture 

93,059 

118,329 

125,702 

139,351 

157,905 

Ornamentals,  other 

336,941 

358,671 

430,298 

416,649 

470,095 

UTAH 

All  commodities 

726,546 

754,197 

745,154 

720,860 

738,338 

Livestock  and  products 

547,344 

566,025 

569,376 

549,606 

556,362 

Meat  animals 

294,279 

304,336 

296,962 

301,682 

288,294 

Cattle  and  calves 

274,384 

281,325 

276,303 

283,178 

268,701 

Hogs 

3,787 

3,874 

5,110 

4,931 

4,435 

Sheep  and  lambs 

16,108 

19,137 

15,549 

13,573 

15,158 

Dairy  products 

136,397 

148,330 

164,763 

148,580 

169,532 

Milk,  retail 

9,377 

8,344 

9,963 

12,535 

13,814 

Milk,  wholesale 

127,020 

139,986 

154,800 

136,045 

155,718 

Poultry/ eggs 

70,499 

69,616 

71,481 

69,544 

63,701 

Chicken  eggs 

21,363 

24,917 

24,320 

23,895 

21,774 

Turkeys 

48,649 

44,056 

46,798 

45,158 

41,344 

Other  poultry 

200 

383 

263 

403 

487 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

46,169 

43,743 

36,170 

29,800 

34,835 

Honey 

900 

1,117 

974 

842 

1,553 

Wool 

6,222 

5,977 

3,401 

2,418 

3,414 

All  other  livestock 

14,176 

16,006 

10,943 

10,041 

12,186 

Crops 

179,202 

188,172 

175,778 

171,254 

181,976 

Food  grains 

23,715 

23,554 

18,632 

17,252 

20,779 

Wheat 

23,715 

23,554 

18,632 

17,252 

20,779 

Feed  crops 

83,391 

90,318 

81,996 

64,474 

66,370 

Barley 

11,593 

12,582 

12,181 

10,979 

11,656 

Corn 

5,050 

5,132 

4,891 

5,217 

5,727 

Hay 

65,839 

71,670 

64,285 

47,857 

48,538 

Oil  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

490 

716 

Vegetables 

27,675 

28,357 

30,718 

31,498 

42,454 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


129 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  grocps  and  selected  corrmodities.  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989 

1990 

1991  : 

1992 

Potatoes 

7,140 

8,207 

1,000  dollars 

8,614 

8,550 

8,463 

Onions 

7,068 

6,252 

6,878 

7,517 

14,785 

Mi sc.  vegetables 

11,580 

11,956 

13,736 

13,320 

17,063 

Fruits/nuts 

11,824 

13,992 

11,493 

24,053 

17,673 

Apples 

4,841 

6,315 

4,342 

9,235 

7,575 

Fresh 

4,451 

5,683 

4,126 

7,618 

6,689 

Cherries 

3,331 

3,996 

2,777 

12,283 

6,237 

Sweet 

1,505 

1,280 

871 

700 

2,037 

Tart 

1,826 

2,716 

1,906 

11,583 

4,200 

Peaches 

2,242 

2,258 

2,760 

850 

2,134 

Other  berries 

280 

162 

177 

358 

348 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

210 

212 

263 

285 

349 

All  other  crops 

32,597 

31,951 

32,939 

33,487 

33,984 

Other  seeds 

2,300 

1,398 

1,236 

1,570 

1,442 

Other  field  crops 

1,000 

1,019 

1,432 

721 

669 

Greenhouse/nursery 

24,000 

24,484 

25,220 

26,000 

26,500 

Floriculture 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

20,606 

Ornamentals,  other 

24,000 

24,484 

25,220 

26,000 

5,894 

VERMONT 

All  corrmodities 

401,061 

429,388 

457,167 

434,044 

451,898 

Livestock  and  products 

350,619 

379,071 

396,532 

369,607 

388,502 

Meat  animals 

42,064 

44,308 

50,077 

48,996 

34,611 

Cattle  and  calves 

40,501 

42,274 

47,792 

46,722 

32,346 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

673 

1,195 

1,553 

1,315 

1,314 

Dairy  products 

301,581 

325,269 

337,334 

309,886 

343,198 

Milk,  retail 

781 

1,674 

1,814 

1,786 

1,786 

Milk,  viiolesale 

300,800 

323,595 

335,520 

308,100 

341,412 

Poultry/ eggs 

4,541 

3,569 

3,095 

2,924 

2,875 

Chicken  eggs 

4,230 

3,299 

2,738 

2,550 

2,532 

Other  poultry 

271 

220 

330 

354 

323 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

2,433 

5,925 

6,026 

7,801 

7,818 

Aquacul ture 

NA 

NA 

200 

300 

300 

Other  livestock 

2,000 

5,500 

5,360 

6,747 

6,807 

Crops 

50,442 

50,317 

60,635 

64,437 

63,396 

Feed  crops 

14,271 

13,614 

13,117 

12,019 

12,725 

Hay 

14,271 

13,614 

13,117 

12,019 

12,725 

Vegetables 

3,016 

3,216 

6,241 

4,896 

4,549 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

2,900 

3,100 

6,125 

4,780 

4,549 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


130 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  cormodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Fruits/nuts 

8,789 

9,227 

10,499 

12,497 

9,958 

Apples 

7,829 

8,267 

8,564 

10,486 

7,945 

Fresh 

6,949 

7,462 

7,884 

9,662 

7,082 

Other  berries 

950 

950 

1,925 

1,955 

1,954 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

10 

10 

10 

56 

59 

All  other  crops 

24,366 

24,260 

30,778 

35,025 

36,164 

Maple  products 

11,766 

11,560 

9,938 

11,440 

12,711 

Other  field  crops 

1,600 

1,700 

840 

585 

453 

Greenhouse/nursery 

11,000 

11,000 

20,000 

23,000 

23,000 

VIRGINIA 

All  comnodities 

1,902,524 

2,061,4 77 

2,151,334 

2,115,662 

2,134,353 

Livestock  and  products 

1,269,140 

1,344,814 

1,382,833 

1,362,977 

1,352,915 

Meat  animals 

488,730 

481,712 

505,950 

502,708 

431,222 

Cattle  and  calves 

419,693 

414,905 

408,275 

412,125 

351,597 

Hogs 

63,595 

60,246 

92,330 

85,204 

73,218 

Sheep  and  larrbs 

5,442 

6,561 

5,345 

5,379 

6,407 

Dairy  products 

265,069 

279,740 

297,300 

269,325 

291,888 

Milk,  wholesale 

265,069 

279,740 

297,300 

269,325 

291,888 

Poultry/ eggs 

444,450 

507,562 

503,212 

516,917 

555,479 

Broi lers 

264,940 

296,900 

295,319 

305,087 

330,145 

Farm  chickens 

1,468 

1,407 

1,387 

1,539 

2,497 

Chicken  eggs 

49,801 

61,937 

67,817 

66,855 

63,252 

Turkeys 

116,447 

133,862 

123,318 

122,934 

137,879 

Other  poultry 

11,794 

13,456 

15,371 

20,502 

21,706 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

70,891 

75,800 

76,371 

74,027 

74,326 

Aquaculture 

NA 

2,006 

1,873 

1,966 

1,966 

All  other  livestock 

69,630 

72,862 

73,665 

71,503 

71,738 

Crops 

633,384 

716,663 

768,501 

752,685 

781,438 

Food  grains 

34,320 

43,866 

33,635 

29,694 

45,340 

Wheat 

33,504 

43,504 

33,283 

29,304 

44,931 

Feed  crops 

57,031 

84,212 

94,580 

83,661 

99,583 

Barley 

6,665 

7,012 

9,161 

8,386 

11,440 

Com 

24,611 

46,781 

53,902 

43,371 

50,715 

Hay 

25,691 

30,375 

31,504 

31,904 

37,428 

Cotton 

578 

1,209 

1,800 

5,614 

7,624 

Cotton  lint,  all 

461 

1,137 

1,604 

5,191 

6,933 

Tobacco 

144,557 

160,323 

182,793 

197,171 

189,907 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


131 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  cotrmodity  grocps  and  selected  conmodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/- -continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Oi  l  crops 

160,356 

173,112 

204,014 

174,327 

163,008 

Peanuts 

73,100 

74,585 

102,582 

86,938 

81,476 

Soybeans 

87,256 

98,527 

101,432 

87,316 

81,400 

Vegetables 

101,254 

104,605 

113,246 

99,711 

113,799 

Potatoes 

15,299 

16,112 

17,895 

21,495 

17,770 

Beans,  snap,  fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

3,720 

Com,  sweet,  fresh 

3,058 

3,318 

1,683 

1,814 

1,693 

Cucurbers,  fresh 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

23,038 

Spinach 

NA 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,159 

Toamtoes,  fresh 

40,446 

39,858 

43,206 

33,149 

40,672 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

39,968 

41,361 

47,094 

39,969 

13,230 

Fruits/nuts 

55,778 

50,833 

32,707 

53,328 

48,853 

Apples 

44,512 

39,852 

24,243 

40,041 

36,247 

Fresh 

27,687 

24,405 

11,786 

21,995 

16,527 

Processing 

16,825 

15,447 

12,457 

18,046 

19,720 

Peaches 

3,981 

2,988 

725 

4,578 

3,858 

Other  berries 

1,509 

1,633 

1,702 

1,799 

1,882 

All  other  crops 

79,510 

98,503 

105,726 

109,179 

113,324 

Other  field  crops 

651 

551 

611 

658 

689 

Greenhouse/nursery 

78,391 

97,402 

104,532 

108,177 

112,584 

Floriculture 

23,068 

34,216 

38,903 

40,364 

43,813 

Ornamentals,  other 

55,323 

63,186 

65,629 

67,813 

68,771 

UASH1NGT0N 

All  commodities 

3,230,712 

3,608,653 

3,752,119 

4,143,238 

4,454,223 

Livestock  and  products 

1,138,573 

1,232,588 

1,396,149 

1,298,946 

1,532,071 

Meat  animals 

524,957 

489,769 

610,394 

543,432 

696,576 

Cattle  and  calves 

513,113 

478,261 

596,973 

533,669 

686,931 

Hogs 

7,925 

7,897 

10,106 

6,802 

6,912 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

3,919 

3,611 

3,315 

2,961 

2,733 

Dairy  products 

492,850 

556,344 

599,294 

557,943 

645,710 

Milk,  retail 

40,930 

34,186 

40,428 

46,623 

49,730 

Milk,  wholesale 

451,920 

522,158 

558,866 

511,320 

595,980 

Poultry/ eggs 

98,758 

131,839 

132,854 

136,284 

130,408 

Broi lers 

40,862 

50,508 

50,866 

54,132 

58,374 

Chicken  eggs 

55,402 

79,131 

79,472 

78,233 

68,948 

Other  poultry 

1,695 

1,345 

2,250 

3,690 

2,812 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

22,008 

54,636 

53,607 

61,287 

59,377 

Honey 

1,405 

1,449 

2,200 

2,035 

2,042 

Aquaculture 

NA 

4,230 

4,764 

5,027 

5,027 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


132 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  comnodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  comnodity 

1988 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Other  livestock 

19,976 

48,289 

46,295 

53,979 

51,978 

Mink  pelts 

7,881 

7,881 

4,396 

3,635 

3,373 

All  other  livestock 

12,095 

40,408 

41,899 

50,344 

48,605 

Crops 

2,092,139 

2,376,065 

2,355,970 

2,844,292 

2,922,152 

Food  grains 

463,426 

509,562 

356,350 

419,840 

451,630 

Wheat 

463,426 

509,562 

356,350 

419,840 

451,630 

Feed  crops 

219,709 

254,406 

243,208 

248,771 

221,416 

Barley 

71,865 

78,888 

52,522 

68,534 

48,070 

Com 

28,307 

33,826 

33,119 

33,457 

34,138 

Hay 

116,762 

138,855 

155,327 

144,860 

137,502 

Oats 

2,775 

2,837 

2,240 

1,920 

1,706 

Oil  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

2,045 

1,853 

Vegetables 

491,499 

578,085 

614,824 

606,655 

591,060 

Beans,  dry 

12,034 

25,418 

21,991 

18,989 

16,379 

Peas,  dry 

26,868 

31,469 

24,502 

21,460 

15,810 

Dry,  edible 

21,593 

22,365 

19,384 

17,513 

13,920 

Wrinkled  seed 

5,275 

9,104 

5,118 

3,947 

1,890 

Lentils  (beans) 

11,794 

11,664 

13,804 

16,380 

20,049 

Potatoes 

242,685 

286,978 

333,601 

298,028 

290,891 

Asparagus 

47,198 

55,074 

54,916 

56,932 

54,197 

Fresh 

15,674 

23,749 

19,544 

28,072 

24,024 

Processing 

31,524 

31,325 

35,372 

28,860 

30,173 

Carrots 

17,412 

14,407 

15,001 

17,882 

26,704 

Com,  sweet 

33,441 

38,864 

39,469 

42,655 

41,461 

Fresh 

5,533 

3,810 

3,188 

3,120 

3,931 

Processing 

27,908 

35,054 

36,281 

39,535 

37,530 

Lettuce 

5,141 

8,120 

7,728 

3,650 

3,593 

Onions 

33,678 

38,942 

31,321 

47,551 

48,684 

Suimer,  nonstorage 

6,848 

9,345 

5,141 

7,098 

6,474 

Storage 

26,830 

29,597 

26,180 

40,453 

42,210 

Peas,  green 

21,361 

25,977 

23,878 

29,403 

22,645 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

36,505 

37,225 

43,070 

48,630 

44,000 

Fruits/nuts 

596,982 

703,471 

777,913 

1,173,455 

1,237,237 

Apples 

356,460 

402,813 

489,480 

895,417 

913,432 

Fresh 

316,788 

355,425 

422,088 

789,287 

806,842 

Processing 

39,672 

47,388 

67,392 

106,130 

106,590 

Apricots 

4,162 

2,236 

4,291 

5,099 

5,062 

Cherries 

60,918 

68,529 

63,760 

55,108 

76,875 

Sweet 

60,918 

67,390 

62,602 

51,580 

74,895 

Tart 

NA 

1,139 

1,158 

3,528 

1,980 

Grapes 

44,601 

69, 158 

56,877 

54,688 

66,747 

Peaches 

9,660 

11,212 

13,498 

6,351 

10,732 

Pears 

79,571 

106,122 

111,692 

115,098 

115,086 

Bartlett 

35,868 

47,257 

43,812 

43,212 

46,236 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


133 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  groups  and  selected  conrnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  commodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Other 

43,703 

58,865 

67,880 

71,886 

68,850 

Pluns  and  prunes 

2,521 

2,187 

2,322 

2,304 

1,721 

Cranberries 

6,062 

6,677 

6,944 

7,458 

7,410 

Strawberries 

6,838 

5,440 

6,446 

5,248 

4,856 

Blueberries 

4,932 

4,326 

3,720 

3,370 

5,771 

Raspberries 

13,482 

16,269 

10,532 

16,449 

22,005 

Other  berries 

946 

517 

785 

744 

1,076 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

6,651 

7,450 

7,390 

5,970 

6,340 

All  other  crops 

320,523 

330,541 

363,675 

393,526 

418,956 

Alfalfa 

NA 

17,582 

18,573 

14,416 

10,560 

B l uegrass- Kent ucky 

NA 

11,470 

7,600 

7,728 

11,303 

Other  seeds 

40,541 

1,624 

1,890 

1,914 

2,784 

Hops 

54,062 

57,691 

60,396 

89,965 

98,222 

Mint 

35,046 

31,514 

41,981 

38,360 

50,768 

Peppermi nt 

20,292 

17,629 

19,355 

15,035 

19,436 

Spearmint 

14,754 

13,885 

22,626 

23,325 

31,332 

Other  field  crops 

53,300 

60,500 

70,000 

61,000 

58,000 

Greenhouse/nursery 

129,802 

140,000 

153,300 

169,842 

176,570 

Floriculture 

39,413 

47,125 

52,652 

67,765 

71,570 

Ornamentals,  other 

90,389 

92,875 

100,648 

102,077 

105,000 

WEST  VIRGINIA 

All  cornnodities 

274,412 

306,999 

332,997 

323,901 

342,548 

Livestock  and  products 

217,751 

249,959 

269,225 

253,114 

267,072 

Meat  animals 

105,478 

124,857 

132,314 

113,624 

123,007 

Cattle  and  calves 

96,993 

115,898 

122,539 

104,029 

114,815 

Hogs 

5,363 

5,782 

7,078 

7,242 

5,554 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

3,122 

3,177 

2,697 

2,353 

2,638 

Dairy  products 

37,049 

37,403 

38,878 

33,678 

36,448 

Milk,  retail 

2,279 

1,628 

1,698 

1,698 

NA 

Milk,  wholesale 

34,770 

35,775 

37,180 

31,980 

36,448 

Poultry/ eggs 

69,816 

82,059 

92,266 

100,261 

101,205 

Broi lers 

43,588 

48,378 

52,193 

54,895 

55,780 

Chicken  eggs 

9,954 

10,285 

11,787 

15,805 

15,600 

Turkeys 

16,082 

23,144 

27,928 

29,135 

29,290 

Other  poultry 

6 

7 

7 

7 

7 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

5,408 

5,640 

5,767 

5,551 

6,412 

All  other  livestock 

4,200 

4,200 

4,805 

4,913 

5,225 

Crops 

56,661 

57,040 

63,772 

70,787 

75,476 

Food  grains 

1,037 

919 

777 

795 

972 

Feed  crops 

11,412 

13,860 

16,446 

15,698 

16,553 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


134 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  comnodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  conmodity 

1988 

:  1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Com 

2,368 

3,358 

1,000  dollars 

5,050 

4,473 

4,189 

Hay 

9,012 

10,488 

11,328 

11,208 

12,350 

Tobacco 

2,624 

3,895 

4,205 

5,719 

5,851 

Oi  l  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

9 

12 

Vegetables 

1,650 

2,600 

3,570 

3,642 

5,800 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

1,650 

2,600 

3,570 

3,642 

5,800 

Fruits/nuts 

28,580 

24,351 

20,981 

26,526 

27,205 

Apples 

17,822 

15,335 

13,426 

17,692 

17,378 

Fresh 

7,917 

8,138 

6,774 

8,134 

6,738 

Processing 

9,905 

7,197 

6,652 

9,558 

10,640 

Peaches 

3,373 

2,301 

803 

1,865 

2,843 

Other  berries 

185 

180 

215 

221 

225 

All  other  crops 

11,358 

11,415 

17,793 

18,398 

19,083 

Other  field  crops 

1,346 

1,370 

1,720 

1,813 

2,480 

Greenhouse/nursery 

10,000 

10,000 

16,000 

16,500 

16,500 

WISCONSIN 

All  comnodities 

5,011,315 

5,390,997 

5,718,984 

5,416,533 

5,499,038 

Livestock  and  products 

4,215,240 

4,349,577 

4,573,252 

4,191,073 

4,313,362 

Meat  animals 

1,077,132 

977,700 

1,121,552 

1,131,721 

974,667 

Cattle  and  calves 

850,632 

760,615 

874,967 

923,995 

766,630 

Hogs 

221,482 

211,935 

242,344 

203,548 

202,788 

Sheep  and  l  antis 

5,018 

5,150 

4,241 

4,178 

5,249 

Dairy  products 

2,951,087 

3,183,144 

3,241,139 

2,850,126 

3,133,362 

Milk,  wholesale 

2,949,88 7 

3,182,270 

3,240,209 

2,849,252 

3,132,748 

Poultry/ eggs 

133,631 

147,974 

171,261 

174,557 

174,189 

Broi lers 

18,026 

17,338 

19,404 

20,311 

22,770 

Chicken  eggs 

28,192 

39,004 

45,576 

40,320 

29,431 

Other  poultry 

28,310 

30,663 

31,295 

33,228 

39,080 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

53,390 

40,759 

39,300 

34,669 

31,144 

Honey 

4,972 

4,555 

4,788 

4,127 

4,089 

Aquaculture 

NA 

1,525 

1,908 

1,423 

1,548 

Other  livestock 

47,875 

34,150 

32,382 

28,982 

25,289 

Mink  pelts 

36,225 

23,564 

21,810 

19,541 

17,273 

All  other  livestock 

11,650 

10,586 

10,572 

9,441 

8,016 

Crops 

796,075 

1,041,420 

1,145,732 

1,225,460 

1,185,676 

Food  grains 

16,115 

32,186 

27,214 

18,526 

10,993 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


135 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  commodity  grotps  and  selected  commodities,  United  States  and  States,  1988-92  1/--continued 


State  and  ccnmodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Wheat 

15,956 

31,763 

1,000  dollars 

26,546 

17,818 

10,461 

Feed  crops 

281,769 

373,586 

381,436 

448,043 

444,158 

Com 

167,191 

251,923 

275,084 

352,417 

350,752 

Hay 

95,591 

107,624 

92,900 

84,567 

81,962 

Oats 

17,413 

12,719 

13,139 

10,820 

11,110 

Tobacco 

8,633 

16,872 

20,019 

22,980 

22,224 

Oil  crops 

67,935 

67,867 

84,516 

100,740 

108,852 

Soybeans 

67,935 

67,867 

84,516 

100,092 

108,064 

Vegetables 

263,063 

374,122 

391,124 

374,683 

354,492 

Beans,  dry 

NA 

NA 

5,550 

4,576 

5,000 

Potatoes 

101,900 

148,036 

141,278 

107,560 

112,717 

Beans,  snap 

31,631 

42,762 

42,977 

43,147 

29,869 

Carrots 

7,657 

8,523 

11,580 

7,282 

8,686 

Com,  sweet 

34,772 

51,040 

53,318 

65,213 

48,370 

Cucuibers 

8,774 

9,356 

10,171 

10,412 

10,291 

Onions 

4,006 

3,648 

3,124 

5,013 

7,062 

Peas,  green 

13,637 

29,131 

34,171 

28,916 

36,851 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

60,686 

81,626 

88,955 

102,564 

84,087 

Fruits/nuts 

83,023 

72,602 

78,627 

96,469 

85,612 

Apples 

8,626 

12,074 

11,512 

12,566 

16,489 

Fresh 

8,061 

11,351 

11,108 

11,737 

15,745 

Cherries 

973 

522 

409 

3,714 

1,333 

Cranberries 

70,512 

55,250 

62,741 

75,573 

63,180 

Strawberries 

2,624 

4,026 

3,465 

4,200 

4,158 

Other  berries 

155 

585 

435 

376 

342 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

133 

145 

65 

40 

110 

All  other  crops 

75,537 

104,185 

162,796 

164,019 

159,345 

Other  seeds 

193 

326 

710 

451 

450 

Mint 

4,002 

10,739 

11,158 

12,180 

4,604 

Peppermi nt 

2,254 

6,579 

5,552 

5,265 

1,701 

Spearmint 

1,748 

4,160 

5,606 

6,915 

2,903 

Other  field  crops 

4,115 

5,365 

7,465 

7,279 

2,308 

Greenhouse/nursery 

65,053 

86,022 

141,930 

142,749 

148,338 

Floriculture 

33,678 

38,022 

37,830 

43,749 

49,338 

Ornamentals,  other 

31,375 

48,000 

104,100 

99,000 

99,000 

WYOMING 

All  commodities 

736,563 

827,171 

756,694 

836,923 

773,312 

Livestock  and  products 

584,209 

664,436 

595,103 

668,073 

606,185 

Meat  animals 

550,899 

632,633 

566,231 

643,413 

578,036 

Cattle  and  calves 

514,015 

596,303 

540,411 

616,045 

542,783 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


136 


Table  5--Cash  receipts,  by  conmodity  groups  and  selected  conmodities, 

United  States 

and  States,  1988-92  1/- 

-continued 

State  and  conmodity 

1988  : 

1989  : 

1990 

:  1991  : 

1992 

1,000  dollars 

Hogs 

5,108 

4,100 

3,747 

4,379 

4,864 

Sheep  and  lanbs 

31,776 

32,230 

22,073 

22,989 

30,389 

Dairy  products 

13,800 

14,632 

15,104 

11,856 

12,375 

Milk,  wholesale 

13,800 

14,632 

15,104 

11,856 

12,375 

Poultry/ eggs 

343 

301 

259 

259 

224 

Other  poultry 

140 

140 

140 

140 

130 

Miscellaneous  livestock 

19,167 

16,870 

13,509 

12,545 

15,550 

Honey 

1,480 

944 

1,186 

1,173 

1,579 

Wool 

13,522 

10,864 

7,240 

5,170 

7,194 

All  other  livestock 

4,165 

4,933 

5,046 

6,200 

6,775 

Crops 

152,354 

162,735 

161,591 

168,850 

167,127 

Food  grains 

19,520 

17,586 

14,698 

15,706 

19,413 

Wheat 

19,520 

17,586 

14,698 

15,706 

19,413 

Feed  crops 

63,856 

62,851 

65,343 

79,153 

65,014 

Barley 

15,600 

15,501 

16,431 

31,056 

20,761 

Com 

8,351 

5,856 

6,705 

7,857 

5,882 

Hay 

37,976 

40,280 

41,229 

39,333 

37,427 

Oats 

1,929 

1,214 

978 

907 

944 

Oi  l  crops 

NA 

NA 

NA 

368 

221 

Vegetables 

15,425 

28,877 

26,494 

19,272 

25,480 

Beans,  dry 

13,024 

25,392 

23,339 

16,712 

22,987 

Potatoes 

2,311 

3,400 

3,070 

2,475 

2,428 

Mi  sc.  vegetables 

90 

85 

85 

85 

65 

Fruits/nuts 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

Mi  sc.  fruits  &  nuts 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

All  other  crops 

53,551 

53,419 

55,054 

54,349 

56,997 

Sugarbeets 

51,279 

51,369 

52,974 

52,394 

55,037 

Other  seeds 

200 

200 

200 

200 

200 

Other  field  crops 

290 

250 

280 

155 

160 

Greenhouse/nursery 

1,600 

1,600 

1,600 

1,600 

1,600 

NA  =  not  available.  1/  USDA  estimates  and  publishes  individual  cash  receipt  values  only  for  major  conmodities  and  major 
producing  States.  The  U.S.  receipts  for  indvidual  conmodities,  computed  as  the  sun  of  the  reported  States,  may  understate 
the  value  of  sales  for  some  commodities,  with  the  balance  included  in  the  appropriate  category  labeled  "other"  or  "miscel¬ 
laneous."  The  degree  of  underestimation  in  some  of  the  minor  conmodities  can  be  substantial.  2/  Sale  of  all  types  of 
citrus  fruit  sold  before  the  traditional  marketing  year,  which  begins  in  October. 


137 


Table  6--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1988 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

Apri  l  : 

May  : 

June  : 

July 

1 

,000  dollars 

Alabama 

172,530 

141,971 

165,646 

172,903 

174,610 

194,515 

186,008 

Alaska 

2,105 

1,911 

2,134 

1,978 

1,890 

2,081 

2,661 

Arizona 

338,879 

111,663 

257,003 

125,081 

164,125 

147,825 

114,620 

Arkansas 

240,161 

185,155 

201,011 

189,758 

205,686 

383,306 

268,464 

California 

1,348,052 

917,827 

1,166,910 

1,152,272 

1,315,606 

1,346,167 

1,280,502 

Colorado 

291,766 

272,986 

281,276 

238,281 

263,512 

255,240 

274,739 

Connecticut 

60,915 

24,794 

31,816 

35,145 

30,601 

25,094 

30,954 

Delaware 

34,302 

35,786 

36,747 

37,475 

45,703 

50,574 

48,451 

Florida 

692,359 

673,753 

623,951 

738,034 

728,049 

466,480 

271,360 

Georgia 

203,858 

191,676 

204,962 

212,362 

215,569 

273,699 

261,121 

Hawai i 

47,831 

43,599 

48,702 

46,761 

48,070 

47,439 

48,298 

Idaho 

165,194 

140,492 

139,196 

153,984 

137,093 

123,955 

131,162 

Illinois 

911,719 

436,167 

439,757 

375,044 

432,878 

585,574 

427,358 

Indiana 

357,020 

281,653 

250,170 

235,434 

238,007 

360,064 

320,070 

Iowa 

1,189,803 

658,698 

607,287 

560,100 

568,222 

671,788 

663,675 

Kansas 

677,993 

455,950 

443,278 

439,569 

487,720 

560,236 

511,079 

Kentucky 

297,128 

147,104 

125,607 

107,562 

100,940 

130,781 

350,051 

Louisiana 

166,796 

93,708 

73,216 

72,276 

82,960 

92,413 

68,296 

Maine 

30,597 

31,234 

33,859 

33,617 

30,903 

23,598 

30,728 

Maryland 

78,604 

75,251 

83,727 

109,068 

93,986 

95,947 

112,900 

Massachusetts 

32,864 

19,405 

25,087 

29,120 

25,763 

25,327 

27,327 

Michigan 

197,166 

233,344 

177,443 

193,690 

169,642 

201,166 

270,585 

Minnesota 

679,962 

395,213 

440,745 

397,425 

420,568 

509,682 

495,785 

Mississippi 

201,678 

128,318 

127,550 

117,011 

106,099 

152,281 

130,515 

Missouri 

378,002 

275,542 

267,711 

237,675 

216,426 

340,798 

262,861 

Montana 

137,779 

99,090 

127,438 

97,789 

84,031 

74,799 

76,786 

Nebraska 

1,075,624 

636,446 

495,842 

485,546 

511,498 

508,440 

558,732 

Nevada 

19,406 

19,955 

21,945 

20,217 

17,910 

15,795 

17,137 

New  Hampshire 

10,423 

10,001 

11,380 

11,425 

9,869 

8,136 

9,775 

New  Jersey 

35,843 

35,411 

44,611 

54,645 

52,375 

63,925 

76,225 

New  Mexico 

86,109 

106,091 

128,467 

95,898 

79,085 

95,623 

88,914 

New  York 

194,570 

202,291 

209,428 

208,001 

197,517 

200,976 

209,862 

North  Carolina 

205,865 

186,802 

208,699 

214,466 

241,956 

295,366 

267,805 

North  Dakota 

223,772 

183,008 

187,670 

141,440 

147,693 

243, 189 

168,096 

Ohio 

288,166 

226,549 

251,877 

248,026 

291,526 

294,233 

319,134 

Oklahoma 

220,145 

209,494 

202,757 

225,382 

264,335 

381,598 

295,221 

Oregon 

135,041 

123,662 

124,990 

128,972 

104,994 

136,172 

233,879 

Pennsylvania 

268,553 

260,608 

276,596 

267,683 

264,860 

250,688 

262,101 

Rhode  Island 

3,728 

3,794 

5,524 

6,966 

5,576 

3,538 

4,296 

South  Carolina 

64,598 

51,395 

58,931 

63,720 

62,731 

132,383 

78,130 

South  Dakota 

309,035 

396,946 

224,860 

193,729 

174,918 

187,527 

184,838 

Tennessee 

158,078 

125,270 

126,041 

112,309 

110,216 

149,758 

116,299 

Texas 

933,312 

900,442 

679,715 

670,971 

839,446 

806,747 

757,702 

Utah 

54,354 

44,828 

50,858 

68,862 

53,343 

53,229 

53,418 

Vermont 

33,034 

30,521 

33,256 

32,125 

32,175 

28,893 

32,739 

Virginia 

122,371 

106,752 

119,191 

144,797 

111,667 

120,126 

154,075 

Washington 

229,013 

187,587 

202,485 

209,206 

188,252 

250,876 

227,674 

West  Virginia 

19,390 

16,983 

20,241 

21,511 

18,077 

19,751 

20,687 

Wisconsin 

389,510 

355,823 

377,573 

373,545 

388,609 

396,050 

413,441 

Wyoming 

49,702 

43,944 

42,074 

46,451 

49,640 

23,611 

31,044 

United  States 

14,064,705 

10,536,893 

10,487,240 

10,155,307 

10,606,927 

11,807,459 

11,247,580 

138 


Table  6--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1988- -continued 


State 

August 

September  : 

October 

:  November 

:  December 

:  Total 

Alabama 

199,915 

247,514 

1. 

333,923 

000  dollars 

236,011 

194,085 

2,419,631 

Alaska 

3,285 

2,837 

2,972 

3,229 

3,193 

30,276 

Arizona 

98, 169 

99,119 

134,064 

155,705 

212,896 

1,959,149 

Arkansas 

266,287 

337,867 

606,078 

491,732 

478,380 

3,853,885 

California 

1,339,282 

1,587,010 

1,812,926 

1,787,108 

1,593,381 

16,647,043 

Colorado 

313,684 

340,070 

426,449 

405,163 

341,245 

3,704,411 

Connecticut 

29,851 

42,049 

32,727 

32,819 

32,743 

409,508 

Delaware 

65,755 

64,873 

73,312 

56,810 

45,591 

595,379 

Florida 

263,017 

242,928 

280,032 

332,442 

526,999 

5,839,404 

Georg i a 

310,165 

423,164 

636,860 

372,381 

276,670 

3,582,487 

Hawai i 

48,587 

47,916 

50,095 

48,294 

48,254 

573,846 

Idaho 

200,362 

262,189 

315,034 

315,616 

258,594 

2,342,871 

I llinois 

419,912 

543,983 

736,389 

431,825 

541,072 

6,281,678 

Indiana 

312,938 

391,402 

584,099 

354,632 

351,058 

4,036,547 

Iowa 

655,980 

851,675 

914,842 

661,116 

789,242 

8,792,428 

Kansas 

535,131 

593,020 

658,103 

558,099 

565,489 

6,485,66 7 

Kentucky 

105,212 

186,616 

167,559 

513,493 

268,360 

2,500,413 

Louisiana 

82,232 

132,034 

304,679 

381,408 

333,471 

1,883,489 

Maine 

38,068 

39,574 

38,182 

44,378 

39,100 

413,838 

Maryland 

95,815 

117,995 

135,659 

125,997 

97,087 

1,222,036 

Massachusetts 

36, 028 

56,292 

42,465 

57,343 

39,626 

416,647 

M i ch i gan 

200,750 

224,647 

285,258 

300,351 

274,364 

2,728,406 

Minnesota 

509,618 

592,521 

686,840 

589,095 

515,883 

6,233,337 

Mississippi 

128,143 

151,320 

299,302 

297,700 

471,557 

2,311,474 

Missouri 

232,698 

341,461 

513,753 

384,371 

344,340 

3,795,638 

Montana 

102,266 

141,568 

171,078 

165,077 

123,734 

1,401,435 

Nebraska 

602,314 

616,219 

766,379 

781,912 

762,487 

7,801,439 

Nevada 

23,602 

20,195 

26,371 

20,713 

20,663 

243,909 

New  Hampshire 

13,346 

17,009 

11,066 

12,206 

11,550 

136,186 

New  Jersey 

66,343 

56,629 

54,876 

56,505 

45,260 

642,648 

New  Mexico 

99,427 

108,609 

157,508 

156,138 

85,512 

1,287,381 

New  York 

248,469 

282,425 

248,500 

232,979 

240,544 

2,675,562 

North  Carolina 

499,557 

674,549 

633,658 

411,124 

315,752 

4,155,599 

North  Dakota 

179,960 

174,261 

246,992 

254,637 

203,681 

2,354,399 

Ohio 

276,510 

371,382 

528,667 

384,393 

331,227 

3,811,690 

Oklahoma 

321,194 

314,541 

379,546 

305,827 

266,407 

3,386,447 

Oregon 

251,131 

297,714 

257,138 

216,169 

165,083 

2,174,945 

Pennsylvania 

270,649 

287,580 

292,009 

292,367 

298,418 

3,292,112 

Rhode  Island 

3,414 

22,061 

4,724 

4,814 

10,637 

79,072 

South  Carolina 

122,643 

134,272 

123,231 

125,445 

87,143 

1,104,622 

South  Dakota 

193,321 

257,372 

369,893 

293,224 

203,659 

2,989,322 

T  ennessee 

120,542 

146,454 

253,330 

280,278 

226,733 

1,925,308 

Texas 

855,440 

924,428 

1,037,736 

967,853 

975,532 

10,349,324 

Utah 

64,160 

74,933 

86,778 

59,204 

62,579 

726,546 

Vermont 

30,772 

34,039 

34,045 

41,129 

38,333 

401,061 

Vi rginia 

167,501 

206,268 

290,058 

210,062 

149,656 

1,902,524 

Washington 

353,399 

412,627 

378,315 

311,673 

279,605 

3,230,712 

West  Virginia 

26,110 

34,664 

29,880 

26,660 

20,458 

274,412 

Wisconsin 

436,301 

462,185 

478,426 

479,403 

460,449 

5,011,315 

Wyomi ng 

41,982 

77,586 

152,956 

110,055 

67,518 

736,563 

United  States 

11,861,237 

14,069,646 

17,084,762 

15,136,965 

14,095,300 

151,154,021 

139 


Table  7--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1988 


State 

January 

February  : 

March 

April  : 

May  : 

Jirte  : 

July 

Alabama 

117,899 

118,498 

135,786 

1,000  dollars 

127,478 

141,852 

142,375 

154,422 

Alaska 

810 

755 

835 

819 

868 

840 

840 

Arizona 

52,409 

61,619 

90,635 

71,491 

80,753 

79,979 

59,173 

Arkansas 

152,810 

148,913 

163,868 

164,123 

177,976 

204,515 

224,278 

California 

373,299 

395,665 

397,106 

399,636 

411,060 

392,471 

372,693 

Colorado 

206,819 

227,262 

229,978 

199,886 

222,280 

199,577 

195,005 

Connecticut 

15,391 

13,747 

15,039 

13,430 

14,003 

14,192 

16,070 

Delaware 

30,123 

30,796 

31,319 

29,593 

38,899 

40,218 

38,805 

Florida 

92,179 

95,307 

99,999 

101,564 

93,086 

84,108 

95,515 

Georgia 

150,535 

149,919 

145,533 

153,800 

160,451 

163,825 

198,507 

Hawai i 

7,313 

7,081 

7,592 

7,292 

7,758 

7,549 

7,124 

Idaho 

97,087 

93,036 

89,979 

88,063 

86,984 

73,422 

69,783 

I l linois 

198,157 

173,153 

171,764 

183,380 

200,635 

189,116 

170,114 

Indiana 

135,466 

136,636 

140,404 

138,146 

142,620 

146,959 

139,841 

Iowa 

457,211 

475,006 

406,153 

410,465 

423,694 

415,069 

372,881 

Kansas 

422,988 

359,829 

365,872 

369,791 

400,699 

291,342 

311,893 

Kentucky 

123,168 

83,786 

94,684 

84,526 

77,369 

82,679 

304,296 

Louisiana 

40,106 

41,400 

46,606 

47,892 

48,874 

53,023 

53,622 

Maine 

17,290 

16,097 

17,608 

17,017 

17,588 

17,157 

18,918 

Maryland 

58,971 

57,138 

59,475 

57,486 

66,782 

66,067 

63,994 

Massachusetts 

8,808 

8,335 

9,039 

8,909 

9,346 

8,940 

8,908 

Michigan 

106,112 

92,980 

101,733 

101,216 

102,505 

100,197 

102,087 

Minnesota 

279,937 

281,956 

285,383 

267,837 

289,213 

286,219 

271,717 

Mississippi 

80,818 

84,027 

93,380 

89,747 

87,840 

98,122 

113,001 

Missouri 

182,041 

171,822 

170,731 

167,603 

157,001 

150,564 

141,863 

Montana 

70,354 

57,796 

78,227 

58,585 

47,814 

31,699 

23,260 

Nebraska 

582,606 

538,754 

416,331 

419,021 

449,254 

392,113 

375,794 

Nevada 

13,518 

14,445 

13,657 

14,022 

15,187 

12,588 

10,405 

New  Hampshire 

5,398 

5,103 

5,220 

5,113 

5,192 

4,748 

4,589 

New  Jersey 

16,279 

15,122 

16,479 

15,935 

16,657 

15,844 

16,152 

New  Mexico 

63,300 

91,896 

111,847 

76,449 

56,104 

54,002 

45,135 

New  York 

150,644 

137,008 

151,915 

144,752 

149,720 

140,052 

140,279 

North  Carolina 

159,454 

147,728 

161,138 

158,382 

171,852 

186,739 

196,977 

North  Dakota 

96,015 

108,945 

88,143 

72,766 

51,280 

42,646 

32,871 

Ohio 

129,312 

126,282 

131,118 

129,485 

143,060 

125,072 

120,493 

Oklahoma 

151,882 

162,013 

164,684 

183,663 

200,681 

167,177 

166,700 

Oregon 

45,952 

51,723 

56,134 

52,746 

43,027 

45,548 

50,611 

Pennsylvania 

184,618 

177,528 

196,282 

189,512 

200,147 

185,438 

186,603 

Rhode  Island 

1,110 

1,051 

1,129 

1,099 

1,158 

1,084 

1,107 

South  Carolina 

41,233 

36,346 

40,691 

44,548 

38,796 

34,294 

35,809 

South  Dakota 

265,432 

222,655 

184,241 

167,777 

139,205 

119,138 

109,611 

Tennessee 

87,209 

90,921 

98,452 

83,881 

82,996 

88,464 

76,946 

Texas 

505,629 

461,345 

448,927 

489,189 

616,685 

535,381 

527,025 

Utah 

39,446 

34,331 

36,645 

50,241 

46,632 

41,658 

38,319 

Vermont 

30,530 

28,047 

29,821 

28,378 

29,326 

26,831 

26,751 

Virginia 

91,170 

83,481 

94,367 

121,434 

91 ,438 

85,228 

92,243 

Washington 

99,415 

89,369 

98,412 

89,403 

92,342 

88,731 

85,364 

West  Virginia 

15,601 

13,969 

17,866 

19,743 

16,759 

15,767 

15,769 

Wisconsin 

326,394 

317,076 

342,770 

335,592 

357,093 

341,351 

342,896 

Wyoming 

40,827 

39,254 

37,429 

42,719 

45,370 

19,614 

19,395 

United  States 

6,621,075 

6,376,951 

6,392,426 

6,295,625 

6,567,911 

6,109,732 

6,246,454 

cont  i  nued-  - 


140 


Table  7--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1988- -continued 


State 

August 

:  September 

:  October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

176,425 

162,449 

158,454 

138,654 

120,287 

1,694,579 

Alaska 

852 

811 

846 

807 

855 

9,938 

Arizona 

63,049 

52,420 

70,161 

59,738 

50,260 

791,687 

Arkansas 

224,297 

236,149 

229,151 

197,100 

180,973 

2,304,153 

California 

406,202 

402,614 

378,509 

381,875 

370,733 

4,681,863 

Colorado 

209,169 

244,206 

296,806 

248,502 

186,284 

2,665,774 

Connecticut 

16,225 

15,777 

15,366 

16,276 

17,760 

183,276 

Delaware 

43,613 

47,378 

40,545 

35,839 

36,409 

443,537 

Florida 

105,545 

98,081 

101,114 

93,151 

91,210 

1,150,859 

Georgia 

198,029 

178,915 

194,328 

173,931 

159,962 

2,027,735 

Hawai i 

7,350 

7,289 

7,640 

7,406 

7,275 

88,669 

Idaho 

84,759 

90,959 

94,609 

90,008 

80,392 

1,039,081 

Illinois 

177,989 

174,067 

198,037 

207,095 

211,839 

2,255,346 

Indiana 

142,576 

143,800 

144,953 

171,870 

160,529 

1,743,800 

Iowa 

388,698 

393,594 

425,137 

435,371 

444,993 

5,048,272 

Kansas 

374,499 

343,108 

374,619 

365,765 

330,455 

4,310,860 

Kentucky 

80,160 

152,043 

100,564 

256,486 

81,517 

1,521,278 

Louisiana 

58,974 

58,486 

50,899 

45,696 

42,389 

587,967 

Maine 

18,659 

19,493 

19,156 

18,983 

18,721 

216,687 

Maryland 

69,046 

72,705 

67,847 

62,862 

65,230 

767,603 

Massachusetts 

8,594 

7,919 

8,413 

8,862 

8,906 

104,979 

Michigan 

96,402 

98,910 

105,671 

97,533 

104,650 

1,209,996 

Minnesota 

292,651 

296,846 

322,603 

315,639 

300,123 

3,490,124 

Mississippi 

113,436 

115,498 

115,343 

97,293 

92,352 

1,180,857 

Missouri 

159,467 

177,280 

196,478 

207,924 

171,502 

2,054,276 

Montana 

46,942 

100,466 

134,970 

99,749 

66,400 

816,262 

Nebraska 

440,033 

466,946 

411,487 

489,819 

408,164 

5,390,322 

Nevada 

15,199 

12,071 

17,031 

10,046 

10,957 

159,126 

New  Hampshire 

4,443 

4,389 

4,590 

4,979 

4,920 

58,684 

New  Jersey 

16,106 

15,360 

16,174 

16,194 

16,239 

192,541 

New  Mexico 

54,765 

71,962 

117,633 

114,210 

51,301 

908,604 

New  York 

147,647 

154,517 

159,828 

160,323 

165,036 

1,801,721 

North  Carolina 

196,392 

214,766 

211,720 

207,456 

175,043 

2,187,647 

North  Dakota 

52,967 

57,315 

100,660 

85,400 

61,826 

850,834 

Ohio 

129,218 

133,536 

151,130 

139,777 

136,469 

1,594,952 

Oklahoma 

207,070 

234,941 

286,123 

199,670 

146,571 

2,271,175 

Oregon 

66,197 

62,777 

70,960 

68,426 

56,408 

670,509 

Pennsylvania 

195,703 

199,202 

211,786 

197,730 

212,595 

2,337,144 

Rhode  Island 

1,102 

1,047 

1,115 

1,213 

1,125 

13,340 

South  Carolina 

41,827 

44,440 

49,912 

44,858 

38,519 

491,273 

South  Dakota 

145,349 

161,664 

224,832 

222,402 

147,219 

2,109,525 

Tennessee 

82,082 

96,345 

108,125 

83,071 

77,256 

1,055,748 

Texas 

610,711 

657,310 

662,801 

600,856 

512,699 

6,628,558 

Utah 

48,904 

55,375 

69,957 

43,018 

42,818 

547,344 

Vermont 

28,794 

29,385 

31,219 

30,015 

31,522 

350,619 

Virginia 

107,716 

121,332 

167,508 

121,474 

91,749 

1,269,140 

Wash i ngton 

93,474 

97,847 

111,795 

97,990 

94,431 

1,138,573 

West  Virginia 

18,557 

22,131 

24,925 

21,053 

15,611 

217,751 

Wisconsin 

346,070 

354,383 

385,654 

377,339 

388,622 

4,215,240 

Wyomi ng 

25,817 

66,491 

142,090 

64,814 

40,389 

584,209 

United  States 

6,639,751 

7,026,795 

7,591,274 

7,236,548 

6,329,495 

79,434,037 

141 


Table  8- -Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1988 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

April  : 

May  : 

Jine  : 

July 

Alabama 

54,631 

23,473 

29,860 

1,000  dollars 

45,425 

32,758 

52,140 

31,586 

Alaska 

1,295 

1,156 

1,299 

1,159 

1,022 

1,241 

1,821 

Arizona 

286,470 

50,044 

166,368 

53,590 

83,372 

67,846 

55,447 

Arkansas 

87,351 

36,242 

37, 143 

25,635 

27,710 

178,791 

44,186 

California 

974,753 

522,162 

769,804 

752,636 

904,546 

953,696 

907,809 

Colorado 

84,947 

45,724 

51,298 

38,395 

41,232 

55,663 

79,734 

Connecticut 

45,524 

11,047 

16,777 

21,715 

16,598 

10,902 

14,884 

Delaware 

4,179 

4,990 

5,428 

7,882 

6,804 

10,356 

9,646 

Florida 

600,180 

578,446 

523,952 

636,470 

634,963 

382,372 

175,845 

Georgia 

53,323 

41,757 

59,429 

58,562 

55,118 

109,874 

62,614 

Hawai i 

40,518 

36,518 

41,110 

39,469 

40,312 

39,890 

41,174 

Idaho 

68,107 

47,456 

49,217 

65,921 

50,109 

50,533 

61,379 

Illinois 

713,562 

263,014 

267,993 

191,664 

232,243 

396,458 

257,244 

Indiana 

221,554 

145,017 

109,766 

97,288 

95,387 

213,105 

180,229 

Iowa 

732,592 

183,692 

201 , 134 

149,635 

144,528 

256,719 

290,794 

Kansas 

255,005 

96,121 

77,406 

69,778 

87,021 

268,894 

199,186 

Kentucky 

173,960 

63,318 

30,923 

23,036 

23,571 

48,102 

45,755 

Louisiana 

126,690 

52,308 

26,610 

24,384 

34,086 

39,390 

14,674 

Maine 

13,307 

15,137 

16,251 

16,600 

13,315 

6,441 

11,810 

Maryland 

19,633 

18,113 

24,252 

51,582 

27,204 

29,880 

48,906 

Massachusetts 

24,056 

11,070 

16,048 

20,211 

16,417 

16,387 

18,419 

Michigan 

91,054 

140,364 

75,710 

92,474 

67, 137 

100,969 

168,498 

Minnesota 

400,025 

113,257 

155,362 

129,588 

131,355 

223,463 

224,068 

Mississippi 

120,860 

44,291 

34,170 

27,264 

18,259 

54,159 

17,514 

Missouri 

195,961 

103,720 

96,980 

70,072 

59,425 

190,234 

120,998 

Montana 

67,425 

41,294 

49,211 

39,204 

36,217 

43,100 

53,526 

Nebraska 

493,018 

97,692 

79,511 

66,525 

62,244 

116,327 

182,938 

Nevada 

5,888 

5,510 

8,288 

6,195 

2,723 

3,207 

6,732 

New  Hampshire 

5,025 

4,898 

6,160 

6,312 

4,677 

3,388 

5,186 

New  Jersey 

19,564 

20,289 

28,132 

38,710 

35,718 

48,081 

60,073 

New  Mexico 

22,809 

14,195 

16,620 

19,449 

22,981 

41,621 

43,779 

New  York 

43,926 

65,283 

57,513 

63,249 

47,797 

60,924 

69,583 

North  Carolina 

46,411 

39,074 

47,561 

56,084 

70,104 

108,627 

70,828 

North  Dakota 

127,757 

74,063 

99,527 

68,674 

96,413 

200,543 

135,225 

Ohio 

158,854 

100,267 

120,759 

118,541 

148,466 

169,161 

198,641 

Oklahoma 

68,263 

47,481 

38,073 

41,719 

63,654 

214,421 

128,521 

Oregon 

89,089 

71,939 

68,856 

76,226 

61,967 

90,624 

183,268 

Pennsylvania 

83,935 

83,080 

80,314 

78,171 

64,713 

65,250 

75,498 

Rhode  Island 

2,618 

2,743 

4,395 

5,867 

4,418 

2,454 

3,189 

South  Carolina 

23,365 

15,049 

18,240 

19,172 

23,935 

98,089 

42,321 

South  Dakota 

43,603 

174,291 

40,619 

25,952 

35,713 

68,389 

75,227 

Tennessee 

70,869 

34,349 

27,589 

28,428 

27,220 

61,294 

39,353 

Texas 

427,683 

439,097 

230,788 

181,782 

222,761 

271,366 

230,677 

Utah 

14,908 

10,497 

14,213 

18,621 

6,711 

11,571 

15,099 

Vermont 

2,504 

2,474 

3,435 

3,747 

2,849 

2,062 

5,988 

Virginia 

31,201 

23,271 

24,824 

23,363 

20,229 

34,898 

61,832 

Washington 

129,598 

98,218 

104,073 

119,803 

95,910 

162,145 

142,310 

West  Virginia 

3,789 

3,014 

2,375 

1,768 

1,318 

3,984 

4,918 

Wisconsin 

63,116 

38,747 

34,803 

37,953 

31,516 

54,699 

70,545 

Wyoming 

8,875 

4,690 

4,645 

3,732 

4,270 

3,997 

11,649 

United  States 

7,443,630 

4,159,942 

4,094,814 

3,859,682 

4,039,016 

5,697,727 

5,001,126 

continued- - 


142 


Table  8--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1988 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

23,490 

85,065 

175,469 

97,357 

73,798 

725,052 

Alaska 

2,433 

2,026 

2,126 

2,422 

2,338 

20,338 

Ari zona 

35,120 

46,699 

63,903 

95,967 

162,636 

1,167,462 

Arkansas 

41,990 

101,718 

376,927 

294,632 

297,407 

1,549,732 

California 

933,080 

1,184,396 

1,434,417 

1,405,233 

1,222,648 

11,965,180 

Colorado 

104,515 

95,864 

129,643 

156,661 

154,961 

1,038,637 

Connecticut 

13,626 

26,272 

17,361 

16,543 

14,983 

226,232 

Delaware 

22,142 

17,495 

32,767 

20,971 

9,182 

151,842 

Florida 

157,472 

144,847 

178,918 

239,291 

435,789 

4,688,545 

Georgia 

112,136 

244,249 

442,532 

198,450 

116,708 

1,554,752 

Hawai i 

41,237 

40,627 

42,455 

40,888 

40,979 

485,177 

Idaho 

115,603 

171,230 

220,425 

225,608 

178,202 

1,303,790 

Illinois 

241,923 

369,916 

538,352 

224,730 

329,233 

4,026,332 

Indiana 

170,362 

247,602 

439,146 

182,762 

190,529 

2,292,747 

Iowa 

267,282 

458,081 

489,705 

225,745 

344,249 

3,744,156 

Kansas 

160,632 

249,912 

283,484 

192,334 

235,034 

2,174,807 

Kentucky 

25,052 

34,573 

66,995 

257,007 

186,843 

979,135 

Louisiana 

23,258 

73,548 

253,780 

335,712 

291,082 

1,295,522 

Maine 

19,409 

20,081 

19,026 

25,395 

20,379 

197,151 

Maryland 

26,769 

45,290 

67,812 

63,135 

31,857 

454,433 

Massachusetts 

27,434 

48,373 

34,052 

48,481 

30,720 

311,668 

Michigan 

104,348 

125,737 

179,587 

202,818 

169,714 

1,518,410 

Minnesota 

216,967 

295,675 

364,237 

273,456 

215,760 

2,743,213 

Mississippi 

14,707 

35,822 

183,959 

200,407 

379,205 

1,130,617 

Missouri 

73,231 

164,181 

317,275 

176,447 

172,838 

1,741,362 

Montana 

55,324 

41,102 

36,108 

65,328 

57,334 

585,173 

Nebraska 

162,281 

149,273 

354,892 

292,093 

354,323 

2,411,117 

Nevada 

8,403 

8,124 

9,340 

10,667 

9,706 

84,783 

New  Hampshire 

8,903 

12,620 

6,476 

7,227 

6,630 

77,502 

New  Jersey 

50,237 

41,269 

38,702 

40,311 

29,021 

450,107 

New  Mexico 

44,662 

36,647 

39,875 

41,928 

34,211 

378,777 

New  York 

100,822 

127,908 

88,672 

72,656 

75,508 

873,841 

North  Carolina 

303,165 

459,783 

421,938 

203,668 

140,709 

1,967,952 

North  Dakota 

126,993 

116,946 

146,332 

169,237 

141,855 

1,503,565 

Ohio 

147,292 

237,846 

377,537 

244,616 

194,758 

2,216,738 

Oklahoma 

114,124 

79,600 

93,423 

106,157 

119,836 

1,115,272 

Oregon 

184,934 

234,937 

186,178 

147,743 

108,675 

1,504,436 

Pennsylvania 

74,946 

88,378 

80,223 

94,637 

85,823 

954,968 

Rhode  Island 

2,312 

21,014 

3,609 

3,601 

9,512 

65,732 

South  Carolina 

80,816 

89,832 

73,319 

80,587 

48,624 

613,349 

South  Dakota 

47,972 

95,708 

145,061 

70,822 

56,440 

879,797 

T  ennessee 

38,460 

50,109 

145,205 

197,207 

149,477 

869,560 

Texas 

244,729 

267,118 

374,935 

366,997 

462,833 

3,720,766 

Utah 

15,256 

19,558 

16,821 

16,186 

19,761 

179,202 

Vermont 

1,978 

4,654 

2,826 

11,114 

6,811 

50,442 

Virginia 

59,785 

84,936 

122,550 

88,588 

57,907 

633,384 

Washington 

259,925 

314,780 

266,520 

213,683 

185,174 

2,092,139 

West  Virginia 

7,553 

12,533 

4,955 

5,607 

4,847 

56,661 

Wisconsin 

90,231 

107,802 

92,772 

102,064 

71,827 

796,075 

Wyomi ng 

16,165 

11,095 

10,866 

45,241 

27,129 

152,354 

United  States 

5,221,486 

7,042,851 

9,493,488 

7,900,417 

7,765,805 

71,719,984 

143 


Table  9--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1989 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

Apr  i  l  : 

May  : 

June  : 

July 

1 

,000  dollars 

Alabama 

200,598 

162,669 

221,814 

208,799 

233,141 

239,587 

200,664 

Alaska 

2,045 

1,858 

2,074 

1,909 

1,808 

2,006 

2,592 

Ari zona 

242,371 

145,316 

208,941 

113,476 

158,741 

138,530 

116,522 

Arkansas 

401,041 

244,104 

276,490 

254,294 

269,585 

403,141 

276,171 

California 

1,230,507 

943,992 

1,252,963 

1,291,932 

1,528,573 

1,434,308 

1,448,867 

Colorado 

374,863 

285,294 

327,274 

284,258 

290,447 

272,516 

279,967 

Connect i cut 

69,578 

28,272 

36,633 

37,778 

32,610 

26,101 

30,333 

Delaware 

47,438 

50,299 

48,156 

53,370 

59,246 

59,903 

48,952 

Florida 

761,863 

663,967 

664,606 

906,907 

854,187 

480,868 

267,745 

Georgia 

260,699 

233,919 

243,688 

259,332 

281,042 

316,554 

248,400 

Hawai i 

48,734 

44,426 

49,670 

47,710 

49,059 

48,455 

49,231 

Idaho 

206,458 

160,551 

188,028 

189,814 

175,675 

157,043 

173,006 

Illinois 

723,208 

406,217 

527,619 

414,664 

453,754 

535,709 

580,240 

Indiana 

340,638 

233,193 

275,326 

250,870 

264,152 

274,100 

382,008 

Iowa 

987,822 

578,979 

671,570 

587,263 

572,895 

637,505 

634,769 

Kansas 

684,700 

499,477 

549,619 

460,571 

499,265 

457,876 

592,539 

Kentucky 

434,915 

145,262 

164,290 

118,072 

110,321 

150,911 

344,766 

Louisiana 

176,062 

84,945 

77,374 

73,730 

79,630 

86,790 

74,151 

Maine 

41,563 

40,720 

48,519 

46,565 

34,788 

19,090 

26,063 

Maryland 

115,302 

112,143 

116,713 

116,824 

103,389 

100,427 

111,819 

Massachusetts 

33,983 

20,714 

26,187 

30,044 

26,900 

27,947 

30,694 

Michigan 

224,387 

174,834 

203,155 

198,625 

189,924 

198,859 

262,542 

Minnesota 

636,095 

361,396 

454,112 

421,223 

432,712 

463,116 

453,937 

Mississippi 

222,925 

186,746 

130,368 

145,946 

135,166 

165,943 

118,813 

Missouri 

416,508 

238,354 

292,828 

245,339 

241,555 

316,211 

338,881 

Montana 

117,102 

97,250 

101,371 

89,879 

73,515 

62,250 

59,356 

Nebraska 

910,722 

695,445 

698,575 

615,151 

650,674 

567,588 

631,908 

Nevada 

19,756 

19,665 

22,169 

22,021 

17,752 

14,846 

16,458 

New  Hampshire 

10,848 

10,341 

11,782 

12,194 

10,560 

8,579 

10,021 

New  Jersey 

37,730 

34,920 

46,452 

57,304 

54,045 

65,794 

83,260 

New  Mexico 

87,254 

64,166 

103,923 

88,184 

98,091 

103,184 

142,174 

New  York 

214,114 

190,395 

223,428 

218,355 

213,373 

215,354 

227,292 

North  Carolina 

272,169 

218,319 

282,168 

279,099 

299,149 

332,756 

271,599 

North  Dakota 

162,847 

120,764 

144,892 

121,956 

96,225 

114,536 

123,643 

Ohio 

355,997 

246,637 

315,330 

282,941 

257,609 

231,944 

341,821 

Oklahoma 

299,066 

184,129 

277,476 

225,068 

227,316 

357,756 

380,535 

Oregon 

157,941 

122,002 

147,641 

141,448 

113,716 

139,867 

219,781 

Pennsylvania 

305,902 

269,620 

307,222 

290,024 

290,399 

268,835 

278,471 

Rhode  Island 

3,788 

3,847 

5,574 

6,975 

5,562 

3,499 

4,252 

South  Carolina 

83,137 

56,672 

72,487 

67,104 

66,556 

144,677 

86,080 

South  Dakota 

264,048 

200,104 

211,655 

172,248 

170,735 

184,790 

209,409 

Tennessee 

216,187 

124,148 

133,019 

117,842 

109,082 

135,153 

123,049 

Texas 

1,067,618 

1,085,893 

758,575 

733,688 

824,383 

776,890 

888,951 

Utah 

57,085 

47,438 

59,425 

59,986 

48,930 

55,494 

58,902 

Vermont 

34,971 

32,114 

34,972 

33,425 

33,780 

31,053 

34,929 

Virginia 

136,497 

102,624 

134,151 

162,784 

129,497 

145,992 

165,931 

Washington 

271,459 

232,881 

255,476 

276,165 

252,913 

258,675 

247,486 

West  Virginia 

23,928 

19,289 

23,092 

24,712 

20,684 

22,669 

22,815 

Wisconsin 

412,447 

363,417 

387,239 

397,828 

410,158 

425,422 

447,914 

Wyoming 

53,925 

39,387 

53,827 

45,545 

43,349 

29,080 

25,844 

United  States 

14,460,841 

10,629,114 

11,869,938 

11,301,241 

11,596,618 

11,710,179 

12,195,553 

cont i  rued- - 


144 


Table  9--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1989 --continued 


State 

August 

September  : 

October 

:  November 

:  December 

:  Total 

Alabama 

223,756 

310,614 

1. 

262,685 

000  dollars 

227,759 

182,895 

2,674,981 

Alaska 

3,131 

2,644 

2,786 

2,926 

2,864 

28,643 

Arizona 

98,685 

88,557 

162,635 

270,629 

173,515 

1,917,918 

Arkansas 

312,898 

319,564 

500,216 

580,803 

318,545 

4,156,852 

California 

1,440,554 

1,793,888 

2,131,094 

2,043,588 

1,586,984 

18,127,250 

Colorado 

361,438 

343,241 

400,055 

430,479 

317,717 

3,967,549 

Connecticut 

29,640 

41,855 

32,093 

31,909 

30,658 

427,460 

Delaware 

62,612 

62,958 

68,444 

56,859 

43,403 

661,640 

Florida 

276,548 

268,893 

285,263 

331,451 

478,161 

6,240,459 

Georgia 

349,920 

633,928 

461,498 

342,688 

280,508 

3,912,176 

Hawai i 

49,501 

48,832 

51,051 

49,217 

49,116 

585,002 

Idaho 

218,409 

300,389 

399,706 

345,751 

268,952 

2,783,782 

1 1 1 inois 

433,109 

493,932 

1,083,574 

737,353 

592,319 

6,981,698 

Indiana 

293,363 

341,081 

805,075 

460,634 

367,826 

4,288,266 

Iowa 

653,132 

735,070 

1,086,713 

993,406 

909,501 

9,048,625 

Kansas 

509, 190 

470,121 

663,251 

563,606 

602,382 

6,552,597 

Kentucky 

120,210 

209,784 

208,430 

607,231 

313,465 

2,927,657 

Louisiana 

109,257 

119,797 

265,088 

300,551 

260,472 

1,707,847 

Maine 

29,765 

34,981 

35,827 

43,223 

41,346 

442,450 

Maryland 

90,765 

118,683 

131,820 

123,451 

92,551 

1,333,887 

Massachusetts 

40,561 

56,599 

42,471 

56,978 

39,659 

432,737 

Michigan 

240,702 

240,910 

308,827 

371,121 

310,055 

2,923,941 

Minnesota 

543,318 

525,176 

708,862 

871,242 

634,731 

6,505,920 

Mississippi 

147,307 

157,118 

260,226 

347,970 

257,309 

2,275,837 

Missouri 

263,884 

315,238 

492,764 

458,337 

301,189 

3,921,088 

Montana 

98,789 

133,768 

247,094 

304,469 

168,149 

1,552,992 

Nebraska 

670,549 

636,440 

846,111 

1,010,827 

791,931 

8,725,921 

Nevada 

22,316 

18,443 

25,648 

22,185 

22,330 

243,589 

New  Hampshire 

13,424 

16,760 

10,562 

11,546 

11,147 

137,764 

New  Jersey 

66,861 

56,483 

55,186 

55,705 

45,841 

659,581 

New  Mexico 

125,973 

128,795 

180,063 

232,303 

104,830 

1,458,940 

New  York 

278,410 

293,237 

263,684 

253,295 

264,979 

2,855,916 

North  Carolina 

538,256 

656,384 

714,800 

434,589 

322,050 

4,621,338 

North  Dakota 

229,402 

213,673 

267,747 

327,199 

217,889 

2,140,773 

Ohio 

282,641 

296,283 

556,687 

466,626 

373,866 

4,008,382 

Oklahoma 

312,236 

316,989 

396,697 

325,602 

211,890 

3,514,760 

Oregon 

251,171 

295,592 

276,705 

239,686 

176,373 

2,281,923 

Pennsylvania 

296,365 

312,451 

316,356 

327,908 

331,595 

3,595,148 

Rhode  Island 

3,366 

21,457 

4,672 

4,743 

10,582 

78,317 

South  Carolina 

143,053 

149,058 

146,185 

123,881 

97,231 

1,236,121 

South  Dakota 

264,757 

270,553 

442,379 

330,752 

260,779 

2,982,209 

T  emessee 

132,641 

144,822 

234,377 

293,566 

181,764 

1,945,650 

Texas 

854,077 

980,106 

1,019,454 

1,018,316 

911,995 

10,919,946 

Utah 

71,473 

77,569 

74,355 

73,676 

69,864 

754,197 

Vermont 

32,840 

36,903 

37,184 

44,512 

42,705 

429,388 

Virginia 

179,138 

236,904 

306,122 

215,655 

146,182 

2,061,477 

Washington 

347,800 

419,550 

391,931 

339,982 

314,335 

3,608,653 

West  Virginia 

27,397 

36,649 

33,428 

29,659 

22,677 

306,999 

Wisconsin 

483,662 

492,165 

515,004 

542,580 

513,161 

5,390,997 

Wyomi ng 

56,417 

103,803 

137,180 

149,777 

89,037 

827,171 

United  States 

12,684,669 

14,378,690 

18,350,065 

17,828,201 

14,159,305 

161,164,414 

145 


Table  10--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1989 


State 

January 

February  : 

March 

Apri  l  : 

May  : 

Jure  : 

July 

Alabama 

148,010 

137,508 

189,693 

1,000  dollars 

172,839 

199,685 

181,303 

161,845 

Alaska 

723 

680 

749 

729 

772 

747 

745 

Arizona 

67,299 

76,227 

60,165 

59,908 

66,485 

51,072 

59,534 

Arkansas 

207,095 

183,907 

241,577 

224,179 

251,490 

256,165 

219,971 

California 

403,190 

353,914 

426,129 

381,470 

465,839 

456,566 

427,819 

Colorado 

251,782 

219,396 

230,604 

189,795 

204,734 

198,745 

188,696 

Connect  i  cut 

17,591 

15,452 

18,015 

14,292 

14,693 

14,279 

14,832 

Delaware 

41,839 

43,344 

41,343 

44,059 

51,509 

48,504 

38,854 

Florida 

100,850 

91,937 

105,585 

92,329 

96,788 

94,870 

95,914 

Georgia 

191,461 

189,209 

183,596 

193,253 

213,913 

202,037 

178,619 

Hawaii 

7,576 

7,346 

7,866 

7,532 

8,025 

7,794 

7,356 

Idaho 

93,379 

85,731 

87,279 

84,889 

85,084 

73,231 

83,305 

I l linois 

179,317 

168,084 

187,162 

176,008 

192,212 

180,223 

182,196 

Indiana 

147,095 

130,038 

154,474 

139,919 

147,865 

143,220 

134,339 

Iowa 

512,483 

395,832 

390,413 

364,200 

381,941 

376,262 

405,697 

Kansas 

426,254 

374,077 

391,207 

365,432 

391 ,845 

284,420 

342,276 

Kentucky 

143,444 

85,310 

114,288 

93,364 

82,236 

90,005 

295,007 

Louisiana 

42,112 

41,855 

49,224 

49,812 

49,350 

58,251 

57,815 

Maine 

19,134 

17,933 

20,755 

17,655 

18,062 

17,037 

16,849 

Maryland 

89,484 

88,771 

88,324 

67,386 

74,062 

71 ,422 

63,275 

Massachusetts 

9,592 

9,113 

9,859 

9,704 

10,168 

9,657 

9,594 

Michigan 

103,169 

96,510 

105,835 

103,505 

105,899 

109,101 

105,356 

Minnesota 

291,492 

269,786 

288,200 

274,815 

305,301 

272,588 

291,568 

Mississippi 

109,826 

95,709 

114,600 

104,004 

117,061 

116,168 

98,884 

Missouri 

209,607 

150,171 

188,912 

183,476 

168,839 

151,510 

145,833 

Montana 

69,325 

69,336 

66,762 

56,346 

48,474 

35,216 

24,602 

Nebraska 

482,804 

506,498 

441,963 

434,453 

450,161 

398,556 

409,963 

Nevada 

11,996 

12,656 

12,034 

12,376 

13,351 

11,228 

9,582 

New  Hanpshire 

6,110 

5,782 

5,889 

5,764 

5,817 

5,263 

5,087 

New  Jersey 

16,712 

15,514 

16,902 

16,337 

17,049 

16,189 

16,562 

New  Mexico 

60,961 

46,196 

78,324 

68,366 

67,916 

55,827 

78,550 

New  York 

162,099 

145,197 

161,168 

151,230 

157,269 

149,588 

150,750 

North  Carolina 

188,816 

173,323 

216,417 

207,601 

222,647 

225,092 

199,469 

North  Dakota 

80,822 

55,996 

48,519 

39,418 

32,742 

28,481 

27,619 

Ohio 

138,726 

126,178 

135,842 

143,640 

142,901 

130,520 

126,044 

Oklahoma 

187,914 

129,318 

219,223 

177,268 

174,400 

181,520 

208,867 

Oregon 

59,582 

45,551 

59,773 

60,117 

48,921 

55,848 

59,800 

Pennsylvania 

206,395 

197,812 

230,237 

208,330 

223,665 

210,079 

205,304 

Rhode  Island 

1,065 

1,004 

1,086 

1,058 

1,115 

1,055 

1,078 

South  Carolina 

46,997 

39,739 

48,396 

46,094 

43,636 

39,268 

40,051 

South  Dakota 

195,733 

165,661 

149,042 

125,614 

126,884 

137,943 

124,979 

Tennessee 

100,611 

80,909 

94,917 

87,293 

79,177 

74,918 

83,772 

Texas 

527,755 

508,017 

547,287 

555,905 

618,180 

578,963 

578,364 

Utah 

42,449 

36,775 

45,124 

38,018 

40,477 

46,111 

42,904 

Vermont 

32,487 

29,686 

31,642 

29,787 

31,040 

29,023 

28,845 

Virginia 

89,978 

72,661 

101,852 

133,275 

103,920 

103,258 

94,586 

Washington 

97,417 

92,315 

104,702 

97,895 

101,323 

100,418 

105,430 

West  Virginia 

17,896 

15,873 

20,349 

22,621 

19,115 

17,891 

17,868 

Wisconsin 

341,658 

319,926 

345,719 

346,569 

374,400 

353,259 

364,901 

Wyoming 

44,575 

33,722 

47,488 

39,281 

36,122 

25,377 

19,787 

United  States 

7,024,687 

6,253,485 

6,926,511 

6,519,210 

6,884,560 

6,476,068 

6,650,943 

continued-- 


146 


Table  10--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1989 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

194,902 

170,365 

155,945 

135,870 

126,617 

1,974,582 

Alaska 

760 

727 

758 

723 

755 

8,868 

Arizona 

62,696 

53,178 

63,664 

60,437 

63,521 

744,186 

Arkansas 

240,821 

227,126 

220,894 

203,898 

183,632 

2,660,755 

California 

454,537 

435,107 

463,943 

461,459 

463,037 

5,193,010 

Colorado 

235,041 

230,693 

266,709 

248,923 

183,459 

2,648,577 

Connecticut 

15,444 

14,947 

15,175 

15,802 

15,845 

186,367 

Delaware 

41,516 

44,473 

36,551 

36,726 

33,890 

502,608 

Florida 

113,430 

102,643 

109,756 

108,712 

102,573 

1,215,387 

Georgia 

204,031 

199,893 

177,777 

174,682 

173,007 

2,281,478 

Hawai  i 

7,604 

7,565 

7,921 

7,672 

7,530 

91,787 

Idaho 

89,168 

96,639 

104,737 

99,525 

89,803 

1,072,770 

Illinois 

177,884 

197,748 

194,105 

213,329 

205,557 

2,253,825 

Indiana 

163,310 

150,551 

165,569 

184,385 

165,101 

1,825,866 

Iowa 

401,841 

457,857 

493,496 

532,391 

580,963 

5,293,376 

Kansas 

358,782 

347,385 

381,145 

348,443 

404,777 

4,416,043 

Kentucky 

94,418 

156,021 

127,895 

277,972 

98,074 

1,658,034 

Louisiana 

64,801 

52,023 

53,149 

50,852 

44,782 

614,026 

Maine 

17,040 

16,862 

17,243 

17,937 

19,578 

216,085 

Maryland 

65,364 

66,698 

61,918 

62,006 

60,356 

859,066 

Massachusetts 

9,326 

8,584 

9,000 

8,887 

9,439 

112,923 

Michigan 

106,676 

114,363 

118,936 

117,125 

124,824 

1,311,299 

Minnesota 

316,868 

319,271 

358,672 

367,426 

337,423 

3,693,410 

Mississippi 

125,248 

121,312 

112,014 

94,348 

85,661 

1,294,835 

Missouri 

160,987 

171,070 

199,408 

264,325 

174,892 

2,169,030 

Montana 

38,559 

69,406 

176,100 

199,139 

75,991 

929,256 

Nebraska 

487,875 

469,359 

474,681 

580,723 

508,980 

5,646,016 

Nevada 

13,609 

11,067 

15,019 

9,135 

9,980 

142,033 

New  Hampshire 

4,954 

4,883 

5,083 

5,311 

5,452 

65,395 

New  Jersey 

16,550 

15,768 

16,600 

16,499 

16,646 

197,328 

New  Mexico 

73,475 

83,004 

127,115 

166,962 

67,515 

974,211 

New  York 

160,773 

160,506 

173,674 

177,648 

186,744 

1,936,646 

North  Carolina 

205,174 

222,234 

211,270 

240,335 

197,859 

2,510,237 

North  Dakota 

39,576 

59,245 

105,478 

100,302 

50,798 

668,996 

Ohio 

140,647 

138,318 

161,602 

160,545 

153,497 

1,698,460 

Oklahoma 

200,993 

230,010 

299,510 

208,458 

159,982 

2,377,463 

Oregon 

61,657 

61,734 

80,300 

83,925 

60,568 

737,776 

Pennsylvania 

211,659 

214,431 

229,548 

228,062 

245,175 

2,610,697 

Rhode  Island 

1,062 

1,011 

1,075 

1,159 

1,088 

12,856 

South  Carolina 

47,261 

50,066 

55,066 

53,194 

46,028 

555,796 

South  Dakota 

162,585 

178,494 

255,985 

238,386 

170,001 

2,031,307 

Tennessee 

97,309 

96,069 

106,481 

100,818 

80,161 

1,082,435 

Texas 

583,550 

681,411 

615,059 

546,491 

519,888 

6,860,870 

Utah 

48,781 

57,699 

54,642 

60,035 

53,010 

566,025 

Vermont 

30,891 

32,194 

34,243 

33,366 

35,867 

379,071 

Virginia 

109,387 

143,678 

159,538 

138,603 

94,078 

1,344,814 

Washington 

105,369 

107,122 

105,779 

105,226 

109,592 

1,232,588 

West  Virginia 

21,259 

25,632 

28,931 

24,480 

18,044 

249,959 

Wisconsin 

363,140 

359,385 

382,137 

386,947 

411,536 

4,349,577 

Wyoming 

36,108 

84,659 

127,877 

106,390 

63,050 

664,436 

United  States 

6,984,698 

7,320,486 

7,919,173 

8,065,994 

7,096,626 

84,122,441 

147 


Table  11 --Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1989 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

Apri l  : 

May  : 

Jirte  : 

July 

Alabama 

52,588 

25,161 

32,121 

1,000  dollars 

35,960 

33,456 

58,284 

38,819 

Alaska 

1,322 

1,178 

1,325 

1,180 

1,036 

1,259 

1,847 

Arizona 

175,072 

69,089 

148,776 

53,568 

92,256 

87,458 

56,988 

Arkansas 

193,946 

60,197 

34,913 

30,115 

18,095 

146,976 

56,200 

California 

827,317 

590,078 

826,834 

910,462 

1,062,734 

977,742 

1,021,048 

Colorado 

123,081 

65,898 

96,670 

94,463 

85,713 

73,771 

91,271 

Connecticut 

51,987 

12,820 

18,618 

23,486 

17,917 

11,822 

15,501 

Delaware 

5,599 

6,955 

6,813 

9,311 

7,737 

11,399 

10,098 

Florida 

661,013 

572,030 

559,021 

814,578 

757,399 

385,998 

171,831 

Georgia 

69,238 

44,710 

60,092 

66,079 

67,129 

114,517 

69,781 

Hawai i 

41,158 

37,080 

41,804 

40,178 

41,034 

40,661 

41,875 

Idaho 

113,079 

74,820 

100,749 

104,925 

90,591 

83,812 

89,701 

Illinois 

543,891 

238,133 

340,457 

238,656 

261,542 

355,486 

398,044 

Indiana 

193,543 

103,155 

120,852 

110,951 

116,287 

130,880 

247,669 

Iowa 

475,339 

183,147 

281,157 

223,063 

190,954 

261,243 

229,072 

Kansas 

258,446 

125,400 

158,412 

95,139 

107,420 

173,456 

250,263 

Kentucky 

291,471 

59,952 

50,002 

24,708 

28,085 

60,906 

49,759 

Louisiana 

133,950 

43,090 

28,150 

23,918 

30,280 

28,539 

16,336 

Maine 

22,429 

22,787 

27,764 

28,910 

16,726 

2,053 

9,214 

Maryland 

25,818 

23,372 

28,389 

49,438 

29,327 

29,005 

48,544 

Massachusetts 

24,391 

11,601 

16,328 

20,340 

16,732 

18,290 

21,100 

Michigan 

121,218 

78,324 

97,320 

95,120 

84,025 

89,758 

157,186 

Minnesota 

344,603 

91,610 

165,912 

146,408 

127,411 

190,528 

162,369 

Mississippi 

113,099 

91,037 

15,768 

41,942 

18,105 

49,775 

19,929 

Missouri 

206,901 

88,183 

103,916 

61,863 

72,716 

164,701 

193,048 

Montana 

47,777 

27,914 

34,609 

33,533 

25,041 

27,034 

34,754 

Nebraska 

427,918 

188,947 

256,612 

180,698 

200,513 

169,032 

221,945 

Nevada 

7,760 

7,009 

10,135 

9,645 

4,401 

3,618 

6,876 

New  Hampshire 

4,738 

4,559 

5,893 

6,430 

4,743 

3,316 

4,934 

New  Jersey 

21,018 

19,406 

29,550 

40,967 

36,996 

49,605 

66,698 

New  Mexico 

26,293 

17,970 

25,599 

19,818 

30,175 

47,357 

63,624 

New  York 

52,015 

45,198 

62,260 

67,125 

56,104 

65,766 

76,542 

North  Carolina 

83,353 

44,996 

65,751 

71,498 

76,502 

107,664 

72,130 

North  Dakota 

82,025 

64,768 

96,373 

82,538 

63,483 

86,055 

96,024 

Ohio 

217,271 

120,459 

179,488 

139,301 

114,708 

101,424 

215,777 

Oklahoma 

111,152 

54,811 

58,253 

47,800 

52,916 

176,236 

171,668 

Oregon 

98,359 

76,451 

87,868 

81,331 

64,795 

84,019 

159,981 

Pennsylvania 

99,507 

71,808 

76,985 

81 ,694 

66,734 

58,756 

73,167 

Rhode  Island 

2,723 

2,843 

4,488 

5,917 

4,447 

2,444 

3,174 

South  Carolina 

36,140 

16,933 

24,091 

21,010 

22,920 

105,409 

46,029 

South  Dakota 

68,315 

34,443 

62,613 

46,634 

43,851 

46,847 

84,430 

T  emessee 

115,576 

43,239 

38,102 

30,549 

29,905 

60,235 

39,277 

Texas 

539,863 

577,876 

211,288 

177,783 

206,203 

197,927 

310,587 

Utah 

14,636 

10,663 

14,301 

21,968 

8,453 

9,383 

15,998 

Vermont 

2,484 

2,428 

3,330 

3,638 

2,740 

2,030 

6,084 

Virginia 

46,519 

29,963 

32,299 

29,509 

25,577 

42,734 

71,345 

Washington 

174,042 

140,566 

150,774 

178,270 

151,590 

158,257 

142,056 

West  Virginia 

6,032 

3,416 

2,743 

2,091 

1,569 

4,778 

4,947 

Wisconsin 

70,789 

43,491 

41,520 

51,259 

35,758 

72,163 

83,013 

Wyoming 

9,350 

5,665 

6,339 

6,264 

7,227 

3,703 

6,057 

United  States 

7,436,154 

4,375,629 

4,943,42 7 

4,782,031 

4,712,058 

5,234,111 

5,544,610 

continued-- 


148 


Table  11--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1989- -continued 


State 

August 

September 

:  October 

Novenber 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

28,854 

140,249 

106,740 

91,889 

56,278 

700,399 

Alaska 

2,371 

1,917 

2,028 

2,203 

2,109 

19,775 

Ari zona 

35,989 

35,379 

98,971 

210,192 

109,994 

1,173,732 

Arkansas 

72,077 

92,438 

279,322 

376,905 

134,913 

1,496,097 

California 

986,017 

1,358,781 

1,667,151 

1,582,129 

1,123,947 

12,934,240 

Colorado 

126,397 

112,548 

133,346 

181,556 

134,258 

1,318,972 

Connecticut 

14,196 

26,908 

16,918 

16,107 

14,813 

241,093 

Delaware 

21,096 

18,485 

31,893 

20,133 

9,513 

159,032 

Florida 

163,118 

166,250 

175,507 

222,739 

375,588 

5,025,072 

Georgia 

145,889 

434,035 

283,721 

168,006 

107,501 

1,630,698 

Hawai  i 

41,897 

41,267 

43,130 

41,545 

41,586 

493,215 

Idaho 

129,241 

203,750 

294,969 

246,226 

179,149 

1,711,012 

Illinois 

255,225 

296,184 

889,469 

524,024 

386,762 

4,727,873 

Indiana 

130,053 

190,530 

639,506 

276,249 

202,725 

2,462,400 

Iowa 

251,291 

277,213 

593,217 

461,015 

328,538 

3,755,249 

Kansas 

150,408 

122,736 

282,106 

215,163 

197,605 

2,136,554 

Kentucky 

25,792 

53,763 

80,535 

329,259 

215,391 

1,269,623 

Louisiana 

44,456 

67,774 

211,939 

249,699 

215,690 

1,093,821 

Maine 

12,725 

18,119 

18,584 

25,286 

21,768 

226,365 

Maryland 

25,401 

51,985 

69,902 

61,445 

32,195 

474,821 

Massachusetts 

31,235 

48,015 

33,471 

48,091 

30,220 

319,814 

Michigan 

134,026 

126,547 

189,891 

253,996 

185,231 

1,612,642 

Minnesota 

226,450 

205,905 

350,190 

503,816 

297,308 

2,812,510 

Mississippi 

22,059 

35,806 

148,212 

253,622 

171,648 

981,002 

Missouri 

102,897 

144,168 

293,356 

194,012 

126,297 

1,752,058 

Montana 

60,230 

64,362 

70,994 

105,330 

92,158 

623,736 

Nebraska 

182,674 

167,081 

371,430 

430,104 

282,951 

3,079,905 

Nevada 

8,707 

7,376 

10,629 

13,050 

12,350 

101,556 

New  Hampshire 

8,470 

11,877 

5,479 

6,235 

5,695 

72,369 

New  Jersey 

50,311 

40,715 

38,586 

39,206 

29,195 

462,253 

New  Mexico 

52,498 

45,791 

52,948 

65,341 

37,315 

484,729 

New  York 

117,637 

132,731 

90,010 

75,647 

78,235 

919,270 

North  Carolina 

333,082 

434,150 

503,530 

194,254 

124,191 

2,111,101 

North  Dakota 

189,826 

154,428 

162,269 

226,897 

167,091 

1,471,777 

Ohio 

141,994 

157,965 

395,085 

306,081 

220,369 

2,309,922 

Oklahoma 

111,243 

86,979 

97,187 

117,144 

51,908 

1,137,297 

Oregon 

189,514 

233,858 

196,405 

155,761 

115,805 

1,544,147 

Pennsylvania 

84,706 

98,020 

86,808 

99,846 

86,420 

984,451 

Rhode  Islard 

2,304 

20,446 

3,597 

3,584 

9,494 

65,461 

South  Carolina 

95,792 

98,992 

91,119 

70,687 

51,203 

680,325 

South  Dakota 

102,172 

92,059 

186,394 

92,366 

90,778 

950,902 

Tennessee 

35,332 

48,753 

127,896 

192,748 

101,603 

863,215 

Texas 

270,527 

298,695 

404,395 

471,825 

392,107 

4,059,076 

Utah 

22,692 

19,870 

19,713 

13,641 

16,854 

188,172 

Vermont 

1,949 

4,709 

2,941 

11,146 

6,838 

50,317 

Virginia 

69,751 

93,226 

146,584 

77,052 

52,104 

716,663 

Washington 

242,431 

312,428 

286,152 

234,756 

204,743 

2,376,065 

West  Virginia 

6,138 

11,017 

4,497 

5,179 

4,633 

57,040 

Wisconsin 

120,522 

132,780 

132,867 

155,633 

101,625 

1,041,420 

Wyomi  ng 

20,309 

19,144 

9,303 

43,387 

25,987 

162,735 

United  States 

5,699,971 

7,058,204 

10,430,892 

9,762,207 

7,062,679 

77,041,973 

149 


Table  12--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1990 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

Apri  l  : 

May  : 

June  : 

July 

1 

,000  dollars 

Alabama 

202,043 

186,654 

221,418 

220,396 

223,219 

233,140 

235,135 

Alaska 

1,940 

1,743 

1,947 

1,789 

1,675 

1,890 

2,428 

Arizona 

174,723 

135,337 

180,215 

119,051 

185,358 

134,719 

129,707 

Arkansas 

349,185 

252,390 

277,714 

252,054 

270,807 

368,153 

239,973 

California 

1,242,673 

1,161,905 

1,319,232 

1,449,371 

1,669,499 

1,490,998 

1,547,058 

Colorado 

429,696 

320,468 

355,769 

316,642 

317,241 

292,773 

310,322 

Connecticut 

79,921 

31,320 

39,063 

40,083 

34,255 

29,768 

35,124 

Delaware 

42,702 

46,068 

52,779 

49,514 

50,587 

52,759 

50,946 

Florida 

866,639 

628,380 

549,363 

578,698 

522,142 

319,519 

291,178 

Georgia 

250, 140 

234,949 

280,743 

260,444 

275,855 

304,949 

283,025 

Hawai i 

49,958 

45,546 

51,004 

48,985 

50,255 

49,713 

50,555 

Idaho 

242,477 

177,945 

207,139 

213,204 

178,161 

170,976 

157,953 

Illinois 

998,632 

577,998 

665,050 

655,418 

551,551 

466,160 

554,778 

Indiana 

447,766 

342,786 

338,047 

343,580 

336,974 

315,242 

391,575 

Iowa 

1,051,547 

664,218 

789,404 

807,232 

787,678 

775,264 

814,766 

Kansas 

737,283 

559,365 

628,359 

518,521 

497,621 

522,819 

755,554 

Kentucky 

443,092 

181,947 

155,189 

128,267 

118,490 

137,956 

355,148 

Louisiana 

185,417 

91,764 

88,187 

85,696 

88,112 

96,122 

78,728 

Maine 

50,448 

47,403 

53,685 

50,695 

35,579 

22,113 

32,682 

Maryland 

96,735 

94,502 

106,708 

127,414 

105,842 

103,671 

121,644 

Massachusetts 

36,802 

22,475 

27,875 

31,531 

29,658 

29,419 

32,135 

Michigan 

296,091 

219,602 

248,159 

230,484 

212,837 

197,918 

250,224 

Minnesota 

655,791 

445,782 

503,435 

527,507 

562,137 

578,620 

529,414 

Mississippi 

225,763 

141,331 

163,602 

145,938 

145,543 

164,533 

137,298 

Missouri 

352,721 

245,250 

289,037 

276,268 

245,809 

289,112 

331,844 

Montana 

186,307 

137,621 

137,765 

135,561 

117,619 

84,118 

64,120 

Nebraska 

891,256 

739,783 

617,554 

636,040 

611,683 

594,897 

591,808 

Nevada 

29,272 

29,614 

28,726 

27,179 

25,234 

20,737 

22,530 

New  Hampshire 

11,774 

11,253 

13,006 

13,179 

10,973 

8,667 

10,025 

New  Jersey 

37,100 

34,242 

45,613 

56,221 

53,130 

60,401 

76,473 

New  Mexico 

122,267 

70,859 

90,040 

80,294 

96,017 

101,396 

116,361 

New  York 

236,295 

204,570 

241,563 

244,848 

240,151 

231,519 

243,388 

North  Carolina 

261,110 

251,407 

315,955 

300,270 

320,663 

330,067 

340,511 

North  Dakota 

286,809 

162,681 

159,046 

158,247 

111,996 

137,415 

116,659 

Ohio 

386,116 

290,603 

317,917 

329,498 

296,719 

253,289 

389,348 

Oklahoma 

281,843 

165,813 

219,656 

188,789 

203,730 

389,105 

375,136 

Oregon 

156,221 

134,188 

154,025 

154,968 

132,897 

148,961 

231,553 

Pennsylvania 

330,373 

289,541 

308,577 

304,628 

303,349 

293,197 

290,968 

Rhode  Island 

3,889 

3,956 

5,724 

7,164 

5,727 

3,626 

5,574 

South  Carolina 

83,373 

60,888 

75,431 

75,967 

74,324 

126,936 

90,132 

South  Dakota 

312,873 

219,235 

214,209 

188,635 

198,886 

241,420 

167,840 

Tennessee 

175,830 

151,900 

136,912 

129,506 

114,519 

140,277 

111,659 

Texas 

1,034,626 

808,763 

869,621 

793,843 

884,806 

1,045,501 

924,041 

Utah 

61,425 

48,517 

64,027 

66,344 

48,270 

49,086 

68,774 

Vermont 

40,618 

36,704 

42,170 

42,417 

40,565 

35,134 

41,790 

Virginia 

145,655 

131,089 

155,267 

142,531 

132,373 

136,801 

165,545 

Washington 

308,801 

243,232 

263,463 

268,235 

245,237 

274,768 

264,356 

West  Virginia 

24,111 

20,595 

24,859 

26,500 

22,928 

25,341 

25,364 

Wisconsin 

504,113 

418,888 

451,031 

456,673 

492,482 

479,502 

509,286 

Wyoming 

46,540 

39,258 

41,577 

32,817 

29,118 

20,735 

33,547 

United  States 

15,468,782 

11,562,328 

12,586,857 

12,339,136 

12,310,281 

12,381,202 

12,995,982 

continued-- 


150 


Table  12--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1990--continued 


State 

August 

September  : 

October 

:  November 

:  December 

:  Total 

Alabama 

223,433 

284,032 

1. 

315,763 

000  dollars 

274,391 

207,636 

2,827,260 

Alaska 

2,926 

2,469 

2,576 

2,644 

2,636 

26,663 

Arizona 

96,230 

99,615 

185,135 

270,418 

198,069 

1,908,5 77 

Arkansas 

302,005 

326,431 

589,821 

662,399 

360,642 

4,251,574 

California 

1,532,010 

1,828,232 

2,228,946 

2,182,049 

1,553,881 

19,205,854 

Colorado 

306,085 

427,557 

432,073 

384,318 

325,178 

4,218,122 

Connecticut 

33,207 

42,587 

36,507 

36,522 

35,533 

473,890 

Delaware 

60,950 

62,854 

72,419 

50,518 

43,749 

635,845 

Florida 

285,906 

314,240 

341,599 

466,256 

553,273 

5,717,193 

Georg i a 

337,929 

544,305 

472,286 

353,976 

259,203 

3,857,804 

Hawai i 

50,777 

50,073 

52,324 

50,483 

50,376 

600,049 

Idaho 

206,546 

284,136 

362,963 

344,724 

254,454 

2,800,678 

I  llinois 

472,909 

426,410 

973,499 

831,044 

593,753 

7,767,202 

Indiana 

351,672 

282,350 

737,866 

589,480 

430,288 

4,907,626 

Iowa 

829,651 

758,163 

1,125,592 

1,078,084 

791,603 

10,273,202 

Kansas 

531,349 

492,728 

700,990 

546,372 

528,057 

7,019,018 

Kentucky 

129,642 

204,295 

219,925 

637,294 

391,736 

3,102,981 

Louisiana 

108,916 

179,147 

373,872 

305,884 

234,093 

1,915,938 

Maine 

41,697 

36,164 

38,374 

43,026 

40,051 

491,917 

Maryland 

103,487 

128,923 

144,360 

129,487 

96,729 

1,359,502 

Massachusetts 

40,266 

54,088 

44,201 

55,539 

39,406 

443,395 

Michigan 

234,369 

247,186 

305,785 

363,356 

305,865 

3,111,876 

Minnesota 

653,614 

524,042 

637,752 

603,348 

667,019 

6,888,461 

Mississippi 

141,790 

184,801 

369,902 

353,928 

258,158 

2,432,587 

Missouri 

295,414 

313,834 

517,599 

489,855 

337,777 

3,984,520 

Montana 

139,186 

107,012 

199,897 

209,199 

134,989 

1,653,394 

Nebraska 

681,152 

706,299 

971,739 

989,682 

683,121 

8,715,014 

Nevada 

29,594 

24,932 

34,518 

26,127 

26,069 

324,532 

New  Hampshire 

12,561 

16,125 

11,905 

11,241 

11,573 

142,282 

New  Jersey 

65,865 

58,635 

57,119 

58,086 

45,906 

648,791 

New  Mexico 

119,655 

122,062 

230,423 

209,479 

124,612 

1,483,465 

New  York 

290,962 

306,919 

260,831 

232,453 

232,661 

2,966,160 

North  Carolina 

610,465 

687,095 

778,112 

462,920 

303,923 

4,962,498 

North  Dakota 

217,500 

299,659 

329,968 

313,393 

237,892 

2,531,265 

Ohio 

314,905 

333,302 

608,450 

507,060 

397,956 

4,425,163 

Oklahoma 

412,413 

318,798 

430,273 

296,252 

266,659 

3,548,467 

Oregon 

241,452 

307,032 

303,475 

249,882 

156,758 

2,371,412 

Pennsylvania 

314,389 

315,630 

308,822 

292,569 

328,137 

3,680,180 

Rhode  Islanu 

3,474 

13,142 

4,825 

4,973 

9,272 

71,346 

South  Carolina 

130,427 

134,430 

135,188 

101,905 

79,676 

1,168,677 

South  Dakota 

294,253 

260,029 

567,468 

346,895 

249,116 

3,260,859 

T  ennessee 

133,007 

151,908 

276,531 

316,486 

218,374 

2,056,909 

Texas 

1,109,956 

982,804 

1,155,300 

1,101,301 

1,116,099 

11,826,661 

Utah 

62,026 

67,715 

76,917 

65,212 

66,841 

745,154 

Vermont 

36,849 

37,744 

36,301 

35,042 

31,833 

457,167 

Virginia 

193,236 

244,372 

324,556 

231,078 

148,831 

2,151,334 

Washington 

369,682 

467,484 

425,220 

333,767 

287,874 

3,752,119 

West  Virginia 

30,000 

38,814 

36,210 

32,690 

25,585 

332,997 

Wisconsin 

525,967 

499,876 

458,884 

477,884 

444,398 

5,718,984 

Wyomi ng 

69,780 

84,928 

155,937 

136,843 

65,614 

756,694 

United  States 

13,781,536 

14,685,408 

19,460,998 

18,147,814 

14,252,934 

169,973,258 

151 


Table  13--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1990 


State 

January 

February  : 

March 

Apri  l  : 

May  : 

Jure  : 

July 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

150,927 

157,069 

185,123 

180,255 

185,962 

177,534 

203,220 

Alaska 

619 

567 

625 

612 

644 

625 

630 

Arizona 

60,237 

58,890 

69,091 

53,936 

75,689 

70,613 

62,850 

Arkansas 

210,664 

192,847 

231,214 

213,026 

236,560 

243,623 

202,808 

California 

481,425 

383,234 

458,719 

437,460 

492,757 

475,874 

430,825 

Colorado 

302,264 

236,083 

268,303 

235,104 

245,987 

233,553 

228,480 

Connecticut 

21,490 

19,025 

20,871 

16,914 

16,502 

17,380 

17,388 

Delaware 

36,492 

38,475 

45,755 

39,671 

42,281 

39,264 

40,571 

Florida 

109,381 

95,210 

106,560 

97,076 

98,251 

98,601 

102,772 

Georgia 

179,896 

181,451 

214,383 

181,441 

198,125 

193,076 

195,949 

Hawai i 

7,131 

6,922 

7,402 

7,095 

7,548 

7,339 

6,931 

Idaho 

108,113 

91,360 

101,378 

95,714 

91,314 

80,132 

87,392 

I l linois 

192,046 

178,354 

195,103 

204,201 

213,546 

215,622 

214,953 

Indiana 

169,448 

156,334 

171,748 

159,294 

172,758 

161,305 

162,371 

Iowa 

507,260 

423,290 

446,603 

455,220 

457,228 

492,348 

496,160 

Kansas 

536,560 

458,511 

527,701 

431,983 

427,555 

384,774 

385,903 

Kentucky 

120,921 

87,823 

98,270 

92,115 

85,960 

98,322 

312,199 

Louisiana 

42,183 

41,852 

46,115 

47,911 

49,579 

61,581 

61,838 

Maine 

25,915 

22,155 

24,195 

20,566 

20,179 

20,172 

19,657 

Maryland 

71,095 

70,458 

77,070 

69,799 

71,581 

68,887 

70,480 

Massachusetts 

10,610 

10,167 

10,956 

10,614 

11,080 

10,618 

10,569 

Michigan 

130,733 

112,966 

127,308 

116,177 

117,437 

121,010 

114,313 

Minnesota 

339,957 

302,599 

315,111 

304,477 

332,103 

307,981 

300,925 

Mississippi 

96,285 

100,332 

111,598 

96,785 

107,733 

107,505 

116,375 

Missouri 

170,088 

146,057 

174,257 

176,528 

162,930 

203,795 

176,045 

Montana 

103,502 

74,774 

78,124 

65,403 

56,129 

31,651 

23,377 

Nebraska 

525,940 

576,929 

424,330 

433,333 

483,879 

456,394 

430,229 

Nevada 

17,924 

19,162 

18,146 

18,241 

20,065 

16,347 

13,536 

New  Hanpshire 

5,865 

5,550 

5,614 

5,494 

5,572 

5,063 

4,909 

New  Jersey 

16,572 

15,374 

16,761 

16,206 

16,914 

16,062 

16,464 

New  Mexico 

94,752 

51,816 

70,831 

60,858 

64,368 

56,758 

60,861 

New  York 

179,384 

152,426 

173,684 

165,724 

174,881 

165,617 

167,165 

North  Carolina 

191,050 

199,396 

237,116 

215,457 

227,327 

218,886 

200,803 

North  Dakota 

109,287 

78,754 

66,748 

62,917 

47,580 

34,735 

34,949 

Ohio 

148,457 

135,674 

143,994 

148,496 

157,118 

141,946 

146,749 

Oklahoma 

171,422 

122,151 

171,505 

118,675 

149,214 

184,863 

223,434 

Oregon 

67,876 

54,969 

60,726 

57,384 

57,728 

56,576 

65,430 

Pennsylvania 

223,700 

213,034 

219,174 

221,049 

232,200 

224,770 

223,583 

Rhode  Island 

1,128 

1,070 

1,148 

1,117 

1,180 

1,118 

1,140 

South  Carolina 

50,270 

42,650 

49,837 

50,814 

47,737 

40,455 

41,179 

South  Dakota 

227,234 

169,798 

165,059 

140,367 

145,754 

193,342 

116,037 

Tennessee 

94,010 

91,473 

94,710 

88,106 

80,026 

88,648 

75,855 

Texas 

647,632 

602,216 

697,482 

609,490 

674,963 

728,828 

612,863 

Utah 

46,344 

39,990 

52,004 

48,540 

40,729 

39,366 

51,972 

Vermont 

37,578 

33,672 

35,364 

32,458 

34,293 

32,396 

32,474 

Vi rginia 

101,758 

100,857 

114,880 

110,794 

105,171 

94,573 

95,698 

Washington 

119,682 

109,944 

111,888 

113,750 

123,669 

118,794 

118,327 

West  Virginia 

19,305 

17,156 

21,910 

24,298 

20,561 

19,337 

19,306 

Wisconsin 

405,819 

359,217 

395,730 

398,764 

435,158 

400,202 

406,040 

Wyoming 

37,978 

33,312 

34,882 

28,818 

26,064 

17,568 

25,118 

United  States 

7,726,209 

6,873,395 

7,497,106 

6,980,527 

7,349,569 

7,275,829 

7,229,102 

continued-- 

152 


Table  13--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1990 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

Novenber 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

202,288 

167,167 

218,350 

203,217 

162,129 

2,193,241 

Alaska 

639 

609 

640 

605 

649 

7,464 

Arizona 

68,615 

66,264 

77,055 

75,137 

74,523 

812,900 

Arkansas 

259,782 

248,307 

231,461 

230,847 

200,122 

2,701,261 

California 

476,306 

486,904 

460,500 

502,680 

446,814 

5,533,498 

Colorado 

203,343 

332,713 

327,666 

245,697 

213,530 

3,072,723 

Connecticut 

17,898 

16,999 

18,703 

19,758 

20,389 

223,317 

Delaware 

40,891 

39,713 

33,355 

29,201 

34,025 

459,694 

Florida 

119,408 

109,840 

121,224 

100,784 

101,566 

1,260,673 

Georgia 

199,938 

198,019 

181,657 

180,298 

165,636 

2,269,869 

Hawai i 

7,157 

7,125 

7,449 

7,228 

7,089 

86,416 

Idaho 

105,338 

92,285 

105,297 

99,033 

80,062 

1,137,418 

Illinois 

207,999 

203,671 

217,012 

205,754 

203,305 

2,451,566 

Indiana 

188,354 

172,565 

178,682 

188,391 

158,282 

2,039,532 

Iowa 

509,509 

532,796 

520,667 

536,015 

484,972 

5,862,068 

Kansas 

397,324 

346,869 

375,468 

356,237 

366,651 

4,995,536 

Kentucky 

107,254 

168,192 

154,275 

272,642 

100,615 

1,698,588 

Louisiana 

69,615 

57,040 

61,321 

49,302 

44,434 

632,771 

Maine 

20,603 

19,512 

21,184 

21,397 

22,714 

258,249 

Maryland 

71,873 

68,125 

62,112 

59,674 

61,353 

822,507 

Massachusetts 

10,362 

9,538 

10,028 

9,766 

10,398 

124,706 

Michigan 

118,673 

119,298 

115,317 

104,818 

108,837 

1,406,887 

Minnesota 

317,601 

306,477 

323,978 

322,788 

275,377 

3,749,374 

Mississippi 

128,691 

129,648 

126,926 

102,794 

97,118 

1,321,790 

Missouri 

215,865 

180,913 

234,762 

272,601 

215,282 

2,329,123 

Montana 

77,745 

49,498 

135,506 

126,465 

65,995 

888,169 

Nebraska 

539,998 

530,404 

618,085 

612,381 

444,290 

6,076,192 

Nevada 

20,031 

15,707 

22,251 

13,232 

14,498 

209,140 

New  Hampshire 

4,742 

4,683 

4,931 

5,546 

5,354 

63,323 

New  Jersey 

16,431 

15,611 

16,421 

16,329 

16,520 

195,665 

New  Mexico 

65,782 

76,949 

174,691 

146,306 

77,427 

1,001,399 

New  York 

172,488 

165,717 

163,723 

147,974 

142,288 

1,971,071 

North  Carolina 

232,584 

235,130 

245,960 

254,629 

200,467 

2,658,805 

North  Dakota 

48,838 

59,431 

117,806 

82,385 

57,932 

801,362 

Ohio 

161,472 

153,849 

173,452 

151,459 

184,218 

1,846,884 

Oklahoma 

305,756 

228,311 

312,646 

197,093 

156,543 

2,341,613 

Oregon 

61,719 

71,004 

76,364 

71,824 

50,386 

751,986 

Pennsylvania 

228,853 

220,616 

222,163 

200,687 

223,197 

2,653,026 

Rhode  Island 

1,130 

1,078 

1,153 

1,301 

1,169 

13,732 

South  Carolina 

48,545 

51,426 

58,806 

53,694 

46,008 

581,421 

South  Dakota 

186,662 

177,915 

350,902 

243,275 

177,716 

2,294,061 

Tennessee 

91,640 

103,966 

134,489 

84,568 

83,096 

1,110,587 

Texas 

675,882 

652,907 

655,616 

637,853 

555,174 

7,750,906 

Utah 

40,541 

47,899 

59,954 

51,980 

50,057 

569,376 

Vermont 

34,263 

33,628 

32,658 

29,719 

28,029 

396,532 

Virginia 

121,495 

148,178 

167,869 

141,575 

79,985 

1,382,833 

Washington 

115,197 

113,025 

124,896 

119,023 

107,954 

1,396,149 

West  Virginia 

22,884 

27,508 

31,052 

26,377 

19,531 

269,225 

Wisconsin 

395,294 

362,552 

351,211 

330,021 

333,244 

4,573,252 

Wyoming 

51,198 

72,272 

142,123 

85,934 

39,836 

595,103 

United  States 

7,786,496 

7,699,853 

8,579,817 

8,028,294 

6,816,786 

89,842,983 

153 


Table  14--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1990 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

Apr  i  l  : 

May  : 

Jine  : 

July 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

51,116 

29,585 

36,295 

40,141 

37,257 

55,606 

31,915 

Alaska 

1,321 

1,176 

1,322 

1,177 

1,031 

1,265 

1,798 

Arizona 

114,486 

76,447 

111,124 

65,115 

109,669 

64,106 

66,857 

Arkansas 

138,521 

59,543 

46,500 

39,028 

34,247 

124,530 

37, 165 

California 

761,248 

778,671 

860,513 

1,011,911 

1,176,742 

1,015,124 

1,116,233 

Colorado 

127,432 

84,385 

87,466 

81,538 

71,254 

59,220 

81,842 

Connect i cut 

58,431 

12,295 

18,192 

23,169 

17,753 

12,388 

17,736 

Delaware 

6,210 

7,593 

7,024 

9,843 

8,306 

13,495 

10,375 

Florida 

757,258 

533,170 

442,803 

481 ,622 

423,891 

220,918 

188,406 

Georgia 

70,244 

53,498 

66,360 

79,003 

77,730 

111,873 

87,076 

Hawai i 

42,827 

38,624 

43,602 

41,890 

42,707 

42,374 

43,624 

Idaho 

134,364 

86,585 

105,761 

117,490 

86,847 

90,844 

70,561 

Illinois 

806,586 

399,644 

469,947 

451,217 

338,005 

250,538 

339,825 

Indiana 

278,318 

186,452 

166,299 

184,286 

164,216 

153,937 

229,204 

Iowa 

544,287 

240,928 

342,801 

352,012 

330,450 

282,916 

318,606 

Kansas 

200,723 

100,854 

100,658 

86,538 

70,066 

138,045 

369,651 

Kentucky 

322,171 

94,124 

56,919 

36,152 

32,530 

39,634 

42,949 

Louisiana 

143,234 

49,912 

42,072 

37,785 

38,533 

34,541 

16,890 

Maine 

24,533 

25,248 

29,490 

30,129 

15,400 

1,941 

13,025 

Maryland 

25,640 

24,044 

29,638 

57,615 

34,261 

34,784 

51,164 

Massachusetts 

26,192 

12,308 

16,919 

20,917 

18,578 

18,801 

21,566 

Michigan 

165,358 

106,636 

120,851 

114,307 

95,400 

76,908 

135,911 

Minnesota 

315,834 

143,183 

188,324 

223,030 

230,034 

270,639 

228,489 

Mississippi 

129,478 

40,999 

52,004 

49,153 

37,810 

57,028 

20,923 

Missouri 

182,633 

99,193 

114,780 

99,740 

82,879 

85,317 

155,799 

Montana 

82,805 

62,847 

59,641 

70,158 

61,490 

52,467 

40,743 

Nebraska 

365,316 

162,854 

193,224 

202,707 

127,804 

138,503 

161,579 

Nevada 

11,348 

10,452 

10,580 

8,938 

5,169 

4,390 

8,994 

New  Hampshire 

5,909 

5,703 

7,392 

7,685 

5,401 

3,604 

5,116 

New  Jersey 

20,528 

18,868 

28,852 

40,015 

36,216 

44,339 

60,009 

New  Mexico 

27,515 

19,043 

19,209 

19,436 

31,649 

44,638 

55,500 

New  York 

56,911 

52,144 

67,879 

79,124 

65,270 

65,902 

76,223 

North  Carolina 

70,060 

52,011 

78,839 

84,813 

93,336 

111,181 

139,708 

North  Dakota 

177,522 

83,927 

92,298 

95,330 

64,416 

102,680 

81,710 

Ohio 

237,659 

154,929 

173,923 

181,002 

139,601 

111,343 

242,599 

Oklahoma 

110,421 

43,662 

48,151 

70,114 

54,516 

204,242 

151,702 

Oregon 

88,345 

79,219 

93,299 

97,584 

75,169 

92,385 

166,123 

Pennsylvania 

106,673 

76,507 

89,403 

83,579 

71 , 149 

68,427 

67,385 

Rhode  Island 

2,761 

2,886 

4,576 

6,047 

4,547 

2,508 

4,434 

South  Carolina 

33,103 

18,238 

25,594 

25,153 

26,587 

86,481 

48,953 

South  Dakota 

85,639 

49,437 

49,150 

48,268 

53,132 

48,078 

51,803 

Tennessee 

81,820 

60,427 

42,202 

41,400 

34,493 

51,629 

35,804 

Texas 

386,994 

206,547 

172,139 

184,353 

209,843 

316,673 

311,178 

Utah 

15,081 

8,527 

12,023 

17,804 

7,541 

9,720 

16,802 

Vermont 

3,040 

3,032 

6,806 

9,959 

6,272 

2,738 

9,316 

Virginia 

43,897 

30,232 

40,387 

31,737 

27,202 

42,228 

69,847 

Washington 

189,119 

133,288 

151,575 

154,485 

121,568 

155,974 

146,029 

Uest  Virginia 

4,806 

3,439 

2,949 

2,202 

2,367 

6,004 

6,058 

Wisconsin 

98,294 

59,671 

55,301 

57,909 

57,324 

79,300 

103,246 

Wyoming 

8,562 

5,946 

6,695 

3,999 

3,054 

3,167 

8,429 

United  States 

7,742,573 

4,688,933 

5,089,751 

5,358,609 

4,960,712 

5,105,373 

5,766,880 

continued-- 


154 


Table  14--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1990 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

:  October 

:  November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

21,145 

116,865 

97,413 

71,174 

45,507 

634,019 

Alaska 

2,287 

1,860 

1,936 

2,039 

1,987 

19,199 

Arizona 

27,615 

33,351 

108,080 

195,281 

123,546 

1,095,6 77 

Arkansas 

42,223 

78,124 

358,360 

431,552 

160,520 

1,550,313 

California 

1,055,704 

1,341,328 

1,768,446 

1,679,369 

1,107,067 

13,672,356 

Colorado 

102,742 

94,844 

104,407 

138,621 

111,648 

1,145,399 

Connecticut 

15,309 

25,588 

17,804 

16,764 

15,144 

250,573 

Delaware 

20,059 

23,141 

39,064 

21,317 

9,724 

176,151 

Florida 

166,498 

204,400 

220,375 

365,472 

451,707 

4,456,520 

Georgia 

137,991 

346,286 

290,629 

173,678 

93,567 

1,587,935 

Hawai i 

43,620 

42,948 

44,875 

43,255 

43,287 

513,633 

Idaho 

101,208 

191,851 

257,666 

245,691 

174,392 

1,663,260 

Illinois 

264,910 

222,739 

756,487 

625,290 

390,448 

5,315,636 

Indiana 

163,318 

109,785 

559,184 

401,089 

272,006 

2,868,094 

Iowa 

320,142 

225,367 

604,925 

542,069 

306,631 

4,411,134 

Kansas 

134,025 

145,859 

325,522 

190,135 

161,406 

2,023,482 

Kentucky 

22,388 

36,103 

65,650 

364,652 

291,121 

1,404,393 

Louisiana 

39,301 

122,107 

312,551 

256,582 

189,659 

1,283,167 

Maine 

21,094 

16,652 

17,190 

21,629 

17,337 

233,668 

Maryland 

31,614 

60,798 

82,248 

69,813 

35,376 

536,995 

Massachusetts 

29,904 

44,550 

34,173 

45,773 

29,008 

318,689 

Michigan 

115,696 

127,888 

190,468 

258,538 

197,028 

1,704,989 

Minnesota 

336,013 

217,565 

313,774 

280,560 

391,642 

3,139,087 

Mississippi 

13,099 

55,153 

242,976 

251,134 

161,040 

1,110,797 

Missouri 

79,549 

132,921 

282,837 

217,254 

122,495 

1,655,397 

Montana 

61,441 

57,514 

64,391 

82,734 

68,994 

765,225 

Nebraska 

141,154 

175,895 

353,654 

377,301 

238,831 

2,638,822 

Nevada 

9,563 

9,225 

12,267 

12,895 

11,571 

115,392 

New  Hampshire 

7,819 

11,442 

6,974 

5,695 

6,219 

78,959 

New  Jersey 

49,434 

43,024 

40,698 

41,757 

29,386 

453,126 

New  Mexico 

53,873 

45,113 

55,732 

63,173 

47,185 

482,066 

New  York 

118,474 

141,202 

97,108 

84,479 

90,373 

995,089 

North  Carolina 

377,881 

451,965 

532,152 

208,291 

103,456 

2,303,693 

North  Dakota 

168,662 

240,228 

212,162 

231,008 

179,960 

1,729,903 

Ohio 

153,433 

179,453 

434,998 

355,601 

213,738 

2,578,279 

Oklahoma 

106,657 

90,487 

117,627 

99,159 

110,116 

1,206,854 

Oregon 

179,733 

236,028 

227,111 

178,058 

106,372 

1,619,426 

Pennsylvania 

85,536 

95,014 

86,659 

91,882 

104,940 

1,027,154 

Rhode  Island 

2,344 

12,064 

3,672 

3,672 

8,103 

57,614 

South  Carolina 

81,882 

83,004 

76,382 

48,211 

33,668 

587,256 

South  Dakota 

107,591 

82,114 

216,566 

103,620 

71,400 

966,798 

Tennessee 

41,367 

47,942 

142,042 

231,918 

135,278 

946,322 

Texas 

434,074 

329,897 

499,684 

463,448 

560,925 

4,075,755 

Utah 

21,485 

19,816 

16,963 

13,232 

16,784 

175,778 

Vermont 

2,586 

4,116 

3,643 

5,323 

3,804 

60,635 

Virginia 

71,741 

96,194 

156,687 

89,503 

68,846 

768,501 

Washington 

254,485 

354,459 

300,324 

214,744 

179,920 

2,355,970 

West  Virginia 

7,116 

11,306 

5,158 

6,313 

6,054 

63,772 

Wisconsin 

130,673 

137,324 

107,673 

147,863 

111,154 

1,145,732 

Wyoming 

18,582 

12,656 

13,814 

50,909 

25,778 

161,591 

United  States 

5,995,040 

6,985,555 

10,881,181 

10,119,520 

7,436,148 

80,130,275 

155 


Table  15--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1991 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

April  : 

May  : 

June  : 

July 

1 

,000  dollars 

Alabama 

209,815 

300,803 

279,619 

226,853 

221,900 

217,955 

217,126 

Alaska 

1,905 

1,701 

1,905 

1,742 

1,621 

1,842 

2,315 

Arizona 

191,614 

133,434 

168,301 

143,884 

140,007 

152,456 

117,636 

Arkansas 

348,677 

262,696 

292,848 

259,701 

250,121 

297,726 

263,408 

Cal ifornia 

1,077,090 

914,029 

1,057,696 

1,133,149 

1,395,156 

1,361,790 

1,563,888 

Colorado 

312,802 

271 ,426 

308,462 

300,570 

301,027 

256,683 

322,347 

Connecticut 

81,688 

30,693 

38,934 

41,824 

37,091 

29,872 

32,661 

Delaware 

42,918 

42,088 

44,550 

47,468 

49,118 

50,518 

45,637 

Florida 

677,258 

585,385 

700,367 

798,563 

721,255 

317,226 

325,991 

Georgia 

247,501 

203,690 

255,346 

239,386 

252,276 

271,525 

282,819 

Hawai i 

47,028 

42,938 

47,656 

45,708 

46,576 

46,702 

47,350 

Idaho 

230,032 

163,902 

181,073 

187,365 

157,323 

150,358 

143,264 

I llinois 

957,954 

602,226 

590,263 

599,933 

454,226 

572,187 

484,574 

Indiana 

438,976 

375,380 

314,271 

372,704 

279,286 

325,334 

277,638 

Iowa 

1,226,874 

800,094 

730,313 

851 ,926 

729,860 

739,313 

808,577 

Kansas 

659,250 

526,262 

579,459 

540,834 

492,156 

690, 191 

680,884 

Kentucky 

473,250 

206,816 

150,862 

149,415 

123,401 

135,020 

333,408 

Louisiana 

158,484 

85,986 

86,916 

80,361 

77,964 

80,011 

83,339 

Maine 

46,279 

43,428 

47,781 

46,472 

37,828 

24,967 

32,623 

Maryland 

92,175 

86,256 

97, 196 

125,019 

103,557 

101,425 

117,514 

Massachusetts 

38,616 

23,019 

28,701 

32,570 

30,383 

30,902 

36,665 

Michigan 

301,326 

209,455 

213,069 

231,853 

203,911 

210,161 

309,598 

Minnesota 

669,033 

389,822 

442,142 

535,183 

546,896 

591,813 

567,075 

Mississippi 

250,922 

147,960 

148,929 

150,061 

146,095 

135,543 

127,748 

Missouri 

410,536 

310,033 

294,367 

295,209 

223,218 

274,672 

242,304 

Montana 

170,259 

101,649 

115,295 

79,570 

85,957 

51,464 

54,310 

Nebraska 

891,977 

685,476 

620,871 

633,605 

633,569 

631,628 

660,596 

Nevada 

26,919 

27,521 

28,060 

26,727 

24,460 

20,276 

19,570 

New  Hampshire 

12,021 

11,478 

13,348 

13,608 

11,204 

8,747 

9,961 

New  Jersey 

36,315 

33,280 

43,360 

53,347 

50,602 

63,550 

84,769 

New  Mexico 

123,729 

101,970 

107,135 

104,624 

110,500 

124,550 

129,001 

New  York 

203,282 

186,474 

219,283 

229,713 

223,888 

224,770 

243,263 

North  Carolina 

247,158 

247,817 

280,411 

284,092 

305,892 

335,603 

397,909 

North  Dakota 

284,390 

142,468 

152,989 

129,315 

108,491 

153,892 

110,210 

Ohio 

369,971 

283,249 

331,323 

332,449 

263,234 

265,005 

355,584 

Oklahoma 

291,360 

381,865 

428,040 

319,235 

447,763 

301,832 

334,348 

Oregon 

164,844 

144,202 

158,162 

152,266 

129,906 

168,688 

248,272 

Pennsylvania 

302,085 

275,881 

294,511 

307,552 

289,773 

273,918 

239,688 

Rhode  Island 

3,850 

3,921 

5,724 

7,210 

5,719 

3,576 

4,598 

South  Carolina 

76,853 

63,826 

69,986 

72,276 

71,544 

129,738 

128,452 

South  Dakota 

316,504 

259,846 

245,690 

264,456 

212,726 

197,166 

188,273 

Tennessee 

210,199 

150,361 

140,960 

120,173 

101,426 

105,241 

98,941 

Texas 

1,200,136 

859,745 

943,383 

959,065 

903,129 

872,740 

1,044,998 

Utah 

59,660 

50,730 

57,671 

61,384 

50,739 

54,238 

68,012 

Vermont 

33,358 

31,127 

37,893 

40,886 

37,933 

32,620 

37,674 

Virginia 

143,269 

121,170 

140,551 

156,374 

126,445 

138,420 

157,968 

Washington 

321,034 

264,517 

282,893 

295,318 

294,164 

294,746 

290,361 

West  Virginia 

23,880 

20,131 

23,851 

25,055 

21,925 

24,649 

24,956 

Wisconsin 

445,316 

363,503 

381,927 

405,021 

413,923 

421,252 

451,165 

Wyoming 

59,221 

48,388 

60,100 

51,139 

48,341 

23,371 

24,603 

United  States 

15,209,593 

11,620,117 

12,284,443 

12,562,213 

11,995,505 

11,987,872 

12,873,871 

continued-- 


156 


Table  15--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1991-*continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

:  November 

:  December 

:  Total 

1, 

000  dollars 

Alabama 

221,722 

379,558 

300,104 

233,483 

197,809 

3,006,747 

Alaska 

2,787 

2,470 

2,628 

2,846 

2,797 

26,559 

Arizona 

103,959 

112,747 

160,550 

230,565 

212,082 

1,867,235 

Arkansas 

287,867 

438,098 

592,359 

544,195 

403,806 

4,241,502 

California 

1,414,878 

1,874,089 

2,199,357 

2,206,078 

1,579,585 

17,776,785 

Colorado 

314,212 

316,406 

337,636 

379,533 

341,141 

3,762,245 

Connecticut 

29,988 

41,816 

36,030 

36,330 

35,251 

472,178 

Delaware 

59,308 

58,403 

77,899 

57,946 

46,101 

621,954 

Florida 

280,533 

287,646 

332,248 

463,953 

634,532 

6,124,957 

Georgia 

338,992 

649,389 

519,332 

365,504 

308,008 

3,933,768 

Hawai i 

47, 700 

46,726 

48,846 

47,265 

47,378 

561,873 

Idaho 

207,517 

257,441 

350,592 

345,358 

277,205 

2,651,430 

I llinois 

550,572 

771,657 

895,117 

472,099 

583,602 

7,534,410 

Indiana 

295,138 

541,125 

606,447 

351,043 

323,011 

4,500,353 

Iowa 

807,598 

834,667 

1,083,601 

900,285 

736,482 

10,249,590 

Kansas 

584,755 

556,943 

707,002 

481,863 

576,766 

7,076,365 

Kentucky 

146,293 

228,589 

219,676 

428,280 

601,210 

3,196,220 

Louisiana 

100,108 

139,966 

243,189 

323,227 

268,559 

1,728,110 

Maine 

38,445 

38,831 

40,970 

45,124 

40,838 

483,586 

Maryland 

109,514 

130,964 

150,331 

136,038 

102,036 

1,352,025 

Massachusetts 

39,461 

60,540 

51,671 

67,221 

45,627 

485,376 

Michigan 

233,456 

283,079 

366,010 

350,480 

297,496 

3,209,894 

Minnesota 

660,814 

702,505 

819,012 

816,718 

637,078 

7,378,091 

Mississippi 

135,188 

153,871 

293,362 

361,201 

332,419 

2,383,299 

Missouri 

284,799 

350,486 

521,731 

375,421 

328,091 

3,910,867 

Montana 

82,480 

110,911 

210,359 

276,304 

175,824 

1,514,382 

Nebraska 

840,307 

786,641 

1,091,765 

848,706 

719,318 

9,044,459 

Nevada 

26,641 

21,458 

30,452 

22,225 

22,637 

296,946 

New  Hampshire 

12,500 

15,233 

12,309 

11,170 

10,895 

142,474 

New  Jersey 

67,559 

60,182 

58,664 

61,917 

44,641 

658,186 

New  Mexico 

108,939 

114,358 

172,747 

145,256 

109,485 

1,452,294 

New  York 

263,691 

305,440 

270,021 

246,815 

257,059 

2,873,699 

North  Carolina 

608,395 

751,335 

714,728 

422,876 

359,570 

4,955,786 

North  Dakota 

207,589 

267,491 

323,171 

378,246 

288,300 

2,546,552 

Ohio 

280,682 

452,508 

551,287 

348,575 

330,990 

4,164,857 

Oklahoma 

312,726 

257,989 

334,461 

242,086 

204,701 

3,856,406 

Oregon 

261,657 

322,782 

312,872 

271,870 

189,023 

2,524,544 

Pennsylvania 

291,205 

291,473 

277,321 

273,712 

284,771 

3,401,890 

Rhode  Island 

3,368 

12,784 

4,716 

4,863 

8,964 

69,293 

South  Carolina 

141,048 

153,887 

121,293 

108,516 

88,710 

1,226,129 

South  Dakota 

222,842 

289,950 

538,080 

339,277 

238,786 

3,313,596 

T  ennessee 

122,291 

131,777 

223,056 

264,257 

267,757 

1,936,439 

Texas 

1,176,107 

1,013,336 

1,222,855 

1,045,981 

975,488 

12,216,963 

Utah 

55,952 

60,093 

72,920 

68,079 

61,382 

720,860 

Vermont 

33,981 

36,014 

38,119 

37,433 

37,006 

434,044 

Virginia 

190,234 

241,198 

316,398 

197,341 

186,294 

2,115,662 

Washington 

377,585 

488,812 

475,830 

399,323 

358,655 

4,143,238 

West  Virginia 

29,100 

37,189 

34,584 

31,507 

27,074 

323,901 

Wisconsin 

471,126 

498,782 

508,119 

559,854 

496,545 

5,416,533 

Wyomi  ng 

66,911 

100,812 

160,268 

134,716 

59,053 

836,923 

United  States 

13,550,520 

16,080,447 

19,032,095 

16,762,961 

14,761,838 

168,721,475 

157 


Table  16--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1991 


State 

January 

February  : 

March 

April  : 

May  : 

Jine  : 

July 

Alabama 

171,506 

259,256 

236,031 

1,000  dollars 

183,068 

187,587 

171,838 

182,813 

Alaska 

530 

482 

534 

523 

551 

535 

543 

Arizona 

65,333 

62,551 

71,551 

65,598 

73,945 

79,622 

59,120 

Arkansas 

201,907 

205,278 

224,336 

214,682 

222,632 

230,969 

228,207 

California 

450,418 

392,545 

437,487 

378,527 

489,044 

457,389 

430,872 

Colorado 

211,394 

212,162 

235,446 

232,659 

238,626 

194,086 

226,740 

Connecticut 

19,066 

17,203 

18,986 

15,996 

16,339 

16,076 

16,784 

Delaware 

35,591 

33,147 

36,668 

36,800 

39,847 

38,117 

36,029 

Florida 

103,673 

95,237 

101,505 

93,953 

97,932 

87,526 

99,691 

Georgia 

181,479 

160,821 

192,728 

171,090 

186,084 

183,040 

177,173 

Hawai i 

7,204 

6,980 

7,492 

7,147 

7,667 

7,532 

7,073 

Idaho 

97,163 

89,732 

96,448 

88,711 

87,017 

85,501 

82,589 

Illinois 

200,721 

185,779 

200,240 

190,299 

199,932 

214,997 

189,317 

Indiana 

179,366 

161,987 

161,599 

159,804 

176,554 

161,454 

152,260 

Iowa 

651,761 

507,416 

436,871 

503,950 

488,438 

478,966 

482,172 

Kansas 

406,080 

397,872 

443,446 

431,196 

414,769 

398,758 

403,353 

Kentucky 

133,074 

112,782 

112,814 

117,029 

99,366 

101,144 

290,066 

Louisiana 

43,589 

45,852 

49,795 

49,276 

51,281 

56,332 

61,502 

Maine 

27,204 

24,733 

26,729 

23,150 

23,604 

22,879 

23,169 

Maryland 

64,274 

60,407 

65,068 

64,706 

66,772 

65,087 

65,203 

Massachusetts 

10,948 

10,486 

11,305 

10,991 

11,430 

10,940 

10,949 

Michigan 

136,968 

100,308 

100,619 

103,484 

106,565 

103,254 

108,582 

Minnesota 

281,654 

273,356 

304,616 

305,821 

303,542 

306,294 

299,802 

Mississippi 

98,504 

100,336 

104,060 

96,833 

105,982 

107,041 

109,292 

Missouri 

227,797 

207,808 

207,434 

205,567 

160,740 

160,366 

150,044 

Montana 

80,702 

60,788 

65,501 

40,053 

60,505 

30,265 

24,879 

Nebraska 

487,327 

531,718 

459,671 

434,158 

514,182 

481,098 

425,025 

Nevada 

17,962 

19,272 

18,249 

18,251 

20,153 

16,276 

13,347 

New  Hampshire 

5,857 

5,546 

5,605 

5,478 

5,553 

5,043 

4,900 

New  Jersey 

16,321 

15,144 

16,510 

15,942 

16,631 

15,793 

16,220 

New  Mexico 

98,169 

84,969 

88,429 

86,802 

73,676 

72,709 

60,822 

New  York 

142,248 

128,305 

144,890 

145,204 

152,217 

150,289 

147,804 

North  Carolina 

182,261 

195,065 

214,710 

200,305 

212,748 

216,298 

211,872 

North  Dakota 

88,757 

49,640 

45,832 

46,406 

38,535 

30,698 

25,260 

Ohio 

132,788 

124,692 

150,107 

143,645 

144,854 

137,085 

144,027 

Oklahoma 

184,345 

324,908 

378,388 

268,289 

390,058 

133,508 

198,020 

Oregon 

70,682 

61,750 

66,269 

59,946 

56,408 

64,095 

70,142 

Pennsylvania 

198,257 

195,656 

209,252 

221,026 

218,378 

208,539 

175,845 

Rhode  Island 

1,026 

967 

1,036 

1,003 

1,052 

1,002 

1,019 

South  Carolina 

47,295 

43,268 

45,557 

47,094 

44,920 

39,277 

39,351 

South  Dakota 

244,555 

205,127 

193,236 

181,348 

151,716 

128,211 

104,826 

Tennessee 

117,372 

97,564 

105,666 

83,738 

75,158 

71,821 

67,113 

Texas 

642,144 

627,217 

746,512 

752,969 

652,513 

641,035 

659,169 

Utah 

44,190 

41,097 

44,939 

43,723 

42,014 

43,738 

48,044 

Vermont 

30,163 

27,942 

30,446 

29,747 

30,956 

29,766 

29,458 

Vi rginia 

99,279 

92,799 

109,214 

125,650 

100,195 

96,098 

99,471 

Washington 

109,107 

95,484 

102,271 

109,291 

119,140 

103,639 

103,174 

West  Virginia 

18,227 

16,423 

20,739 

22,653 

19,455 

18,535 

18,563 

Wisconsin 

323,367 

308,937 

328,712 

342,580 

359,392 

350,810 

357,073 

Wyoming 

48,296 

41,126 

52,867 

44,392 

44,985 

19,439 

17,258 

United  States 

7, 437,901 

7,119,920 

7,528,416 

7,220,553 

7,401,640 

6,844,810 

6,956,027 

conti nued- - 


158 


Table  16--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1991 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dol lars 

Alabama 

196,563 

193,795 

183,080 

141,161 

130,410 

2,237,108 

Alaska 

548 

522 

543 

517 

558 

6,386 

Arizona 

67,171 

56,156 

69,121 

59,512 

56,542 

786,222 

Arkansas 

247,332 

238,092 

220,206 

221,237 

208,992 

2,663,870 

California 

453,766 

408,091 

464,628 

475,671 

415,747 

5,254,185 

Colorado 

213,905 

218,275 

217,666 

243,458 

218,839 

2,663,256 

Connecticut 

16,841 

16,073 

17,269 

18,431 

19,157 

208,221 

Delaware 

40,670 

36,998 

36,687 

32,442 

35,174 

438,170 

Florida 

88,206 

101,545 

109,175 

95,106 

98,077 

1,171,626 

Georgia 

187,450 

185,737 

198,177 

168,193 

169,771 

2,161,743 

Hawai i 

7,282 

7,226 

7,533 

7,326 

7,139 

87,601 

Idaho 

90,751 

83,196 

100,218 

87,613 

76,253 

1,065,192 

Illinois 

197,543 

180,260 

203,565 

198,747 

191,645 

2,353,045 

Indiana 

144,282 

142,885 

158,654 

164,672 

153,591 

1,917,108 

Iowa 

412,264 

472,197 

460,956 

410,249 

415,196 

5,720,436 

Kansas 

422,038 

364,142 

401,651 

333,835 

383,328 

4,800,468 

Kentucky 

102,623 

158,476 

130,730 

246,247 

100,999 

1,705,350 

Louisiana 

63,198 

59,174 

58,143 

50,911 

47,259 

636,312 

Maine 

23,865 

22,902 

24,146 

23,939 

25,214 

291,534 

Maryland 

70,032 

65,771 

67,783 

67,144 

65,957 

788,204 

Massachusetts 

10,749 

9,962 

10,525 

10,196 

10,874 

129,355 

Michigan 

102,420 

103,171 

109,376 

103,860 

109,068 

1,287,675 

Minnesota 

289,828 

296,636 

322,960 

315,418 

292,597 

3,592,524 

Mississippi 

117,693 

116,227 

120,217 

104,181 

95,171 

1,275,537 

Missouri 

174,775 

193,609 

204,178 

206,385 

169,700 

2,268,403 

Montana 

19,525 

31,799 

135,522 

170,454 

89,978 

809,971 

Nebraska 

588,264 

505,565 

614,910 

482,228 

409,187 

5,933,333 

Nevada 

19,922 

15,407 

22,252 

13,160 

14,475 

208,726 

New  Hampshire 

4,736 

4,686 

4,945 

5,623 

5,367 

63,339 

New  Jersey 

16,217 

15,426 

16,240 

16,246 

16,293 

192,983 

New  Mexico 

61,311 

76,454 

122,632 

91,029 

60,887 

977,889 

New  York 

147,527 

148,227 

161,492 

157,136 

167,243 

1,792,582 

North  Carolina 

238,747 

238,865 

241,793 

249,076 

215,444 

2,617,184 

North  Dakota 

33,713 

54,620 

100,856 

96,668 

58,704 

669,689 

Ohio 

128,815 

141,256 

147,929 

146,439 

139,679 

1,681,316 

Oklahoma 

194,611 

178,582 

235,496 

172,874 

129,198 

2,788,277 

Oregon 

69,691 

80,955 

80,691 

79,533 

65,356 

825,518 

Pennsylvania 

215,905 

200,503 

185,561 

183,504 

192,630 

2,405,056 

Rhode  Island 

1,017 

968 

1,042 

1,194 

1,063 

12,389 

South  Carolina 

46,188 

48,364 

53,627 

52,224 

41,550 

548,715 

South  Dakota 

118,386 

152,037 

277,685 

213,880 

154,124 

2,125,131 

Tennessee 

84,037 

82,793 

109,868 

80,651 

68,001 

1,043,782 

Texas 

743,295 

601,501 

647,847 

649,354 

517,345 

7,880,901 

Utah 

43,339 

45,127 

54,915 

52,145 

46,335 

549,606 

Vermont 

31,424 

31,627 

32,981 

31,695 

33,402 

369,607 

Virginia 

112,171 

137,886 

164,166 

128,202 

97,846 

1,362,977 

Washington 

109,796 

102,318 

119,870 

114,968 

109,888 

1,298,946 

West  Virginia 

21,558 

25,367 

28,599 

24,442 

18,553 

253,114 

Wisconsin 

351,081 

352,716 

378,123 

365,249 

373,033 

4,191,073 

Wyomi ng 

33,765 

92,041 

149,947 

90,106 

33,851 

668,073 

United  States 

7,176,836 

7,096,208 

7, 986,176 

7,454,531 

6,556,690 

86,779,708 

159 


Table  17--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1991 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

April  : 

May  : 

June  : 

July 

Alabama 

38,309 

41,547 

43,588 

1,000  dollars 

43,785 

34,313 

46,117 

34,313 

Alaska 

1,375 

1,219 

1,371 

1,219 

1,070 

1,307 

1,772 

Arizona 

126,281 

70,883 

96,750 

78,286 

66,062 

72,834 

58,516 

Arkansas 

146,770 

57,418 

68,512 

45,019 

27,489 

66,757 

35,201 

California 

626,672 

521,484 

620,209 

754,622 

906,112 

904,401 

1,133,016 

Colorado 

101,408 

59,264 

73,016 

67,911 

62,401 

62,597 

95,607 

Connecticut 

62,622 

13,490 

19,948 

25,828 

20,752 

13,796 

15,877 

Delaware 

7,327 

8,941 

7,882 

10,668 

9,271 

12,401 

9,608 

Florida 

573,585 

490,148 

598,862 

704,610 

623,323 

229,700 

226,300 

Georgia 

66,022 

42,869 

62,618 

68,296 

66,192 

88,485 

105,646 

Hawai i 

39,824 

35,958 

40,164 

38,561 

38,909 

39,170 

40,277 

Idaho 

132,869 

74,170 

84,625 

98,654 

70,306 

64,857 

60,675 

Illinois 

757,233 

416,447 

390,023 

409,634 

254,294 

357, 190 

295,257 

Indiana 

259,610 

213,393 

152,672 

212,900 

102,732 

163,880 

125,378 

Iowa 

575,113 

292,678 

293,442 

347,976 

241,422 

260,347 

326,405 

Kansas 

253,170 

128,390 

136,013 

109,638 

77,387 

291,433 

277,531 

Kentucky 

340,176 

94,034 

38,048 

32,386 

24,035 

33,876 

43,342 

Louisiana 

114,895 

40,134 

37,121 

31,085 

26,683 

23,679 

21,837 

Maine 

19,075 

18,695 

21,052 

23,322 

14,224 

2,088 

9,454 

Maryland 

27,901 

25,849 

32,128 

60,313 

36,785 

36,338 

52,311 

Massachusetts 

27,668 

12,533 

17,396 

21,579 

18,953 

19,962 

25,716 

Michigan 

164,358 

109,147 

112,450 

128,369 

97,346 

106,907 

201,016 

Minnesota 

387,379 

116,466 

137,526 

229,262 

243,354 

285,519 

267,273 

Mississippi 

152,418 

47,624 

44,869 

53,228 

40,113 

28,502 

18,456 

Missouri 

182,739 

102,225 

86,933 

89,642 

62,478 

114,306 

92,260 

Montana 

89,557 

40,861 

49,794 

39,517 

25,452 

21,199 

29,431 

Nebraska 

404,650 

153,758 

161,200 

199,447 

119,387 

150,530 

235,571 

Nevada 

8,957 

8,249 

9,811 

8,476 

4,307 

4,000 

6,223 

New  Hampshire 

6,164 

5,932 

7,743 

8,130 

5,651 

3,704 

5,061 

New  Jersey 

19,994 

18,136 

26,850 

37,405 

33,971 

47,757 

68,549 

New  Mexico 

25,560 

17,001 

18,706 

17,822 

36,824 

51,841 

68,179 

New  York 

61,034 

58,169 

74,393 

84,509 

71,671 

74,481 

95,459 

North  Carolina 

64,897 

52,752 

65,701 

83,787 

93,144 

119,305 

186,037 

North  Dakota 

195,633 

92,828 

107,157 

82,909 

69,956 

123,194 

84,950 

Ohio 

237,183 

158,557 

181,216 

188,804 

118,380 

127,920 

211,557 

Oklahoma 

107,015 

56,957 

49,652 

50,946 

57,705 

168,324 

136,328 

Oregon 

94,162 

82,452 

91,893 

92,320 

73,498 

104,593 

178,130 

Pennsylvania 

103,828 

80,225 

85,259 

86,526 

71,395 

65,379 

63,843 

Rhode  Island 

2,824 

2,954 

4,688 

6,207 

4,667 

2,574 

3,579 

South  Carolina 

29,558 

20,558 

24,429 

25,182 

26,624 

90,461 

89,101 

South  Dakota 

71,949 

54,719 

52,454 

83,108 

61,010 

68,955 

83,447 

Tennessee 

92,827 

52,797 

35,294 

36,435 

26,268 

33,420 

31,828 

Texas 

557,992 

232,528 

196,871 

206,096 

250,616 

231,705 

385,829 

Utah 

15,470 

9,633 

12,732 

17,661 

8,725 

10,500 

19,968 

Vermont 

3,195 

3,185 

7,447 

11,139 

6,977 

2,854 

8,216 

Virginia 

43,990 

28,371 

31,337 

30,724 

26,250 

42,322 

58,497 

Washington 

211,927 

169,033 

180,622 

186,027 

175,024 

191,107 

187,187 

West  Virginia 

5,653 

3,708 

3,112 

2,402 

2,470 

6,114 

6,393 

Wisconsin 

121,949 

54,566 

53,215 

62,441 

54,531 

70,442 

94,092 

Wyoming 

10,925 

7,262 

7,233 

6,747 

3,356 

3,932 

7,345 

United  States 

7,771,692 

4,500,197 

4,756,027 

5,341,660 

4,593,865 

5,143,062 

5,917,844 

continued-- 


160 


Table  17--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1991 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

:  October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dol lars 

Alabama 

25,159 

185,763 

117,024 

92,322 

67,399 

769,639 

Alaska 

2,239 

1,948 

2,085 

2,329 

2,239 

20,173 

Arizona 

36,788 

56,591 

91,429 

171,053 

155,540 

1,081,013 

Arkansas 

40,535 

200,006 

372,153 

322,958 

194,814 

1,577,632 

California 

961,112 

1,465,998 

1,734,729 

1,730,407 

1,163,838 

12,522,600 

Colorado 

100,307 

98,131 

119,970 

136,075 

122,302 

1,098,989 

Connecticut 

13,147 

25,743 

18,761 

17,899 

16,094 

263,957 

Delaware 

18,638 

21,405 

41,212 

25,504 

10,927 

183,784 

Florida 

192,327 

186,101 

223,073 

368,847 

536,455 

4,953,331 

Georgia 

151,542 

463,652 

321,155 

197,311 

138,237 

1,772,025 

Hawai i 

40,418 

39,500 

41,313 

39,939 

40,239 

474,272 

Idaho 

116,766 

174,245 

250,374 

257,745 

200,952 

1,586,238 

Illinois 

353,029 

591,397 

691,552 

273,352 

391,957 

5,181,365 

Indiana 

150,856 

398,240 

447,793 

186,371 

169,420 

2,583,245 

Iowa 

395,334 

362,470 

622,645 

490,036 

321,286 

4,529,154 

Kansas 

162,717 

192,801 

305,351 

148,028 

193,438 

2,275,897 

Kentucky 

43,670 

70,113 

88,946 

182,033 

500,211 

1,490,870 

Louisiana 

36,910 

80,792 

185,046 

272,316 

221,300 

1,091,798 

Maine 

14,580 

15,929 

16,824 

21,185 

15,624 

192,052 

Maryland 

39,482 

65,193 

82,548 

68,894 

36,079 

563,821 

Massachusetts 

28,712 

50,578 

41,146 

57,025 

34,753 

356,021 

Michigan 

131,036 

179,908 

256,634 

246,620 

188,428 

1,922,219 

Minnesota 

370,986 

405,869 

496,052 

501,300 

344,481 

3,785,567 

Mississippi 

17,495 

37,644 

173,145 

257,020 

237,248 

1,107,762 

Missouri 

110,024 

156,877 

317,553 

169,036 

158,391 

1,642,464 

Montana 

62,955 

79,112 

74,837 

105,850 

85,846 

704,411 

Nebraska 

252,043 

281,076 

476,855 

366,478 

310,131 

3,111,126 

Nevada 

6,719 

6,051 

8,200 

9,065 

8,162 

88,220 

New  Hampshire 

7,764 

10,547 

7,364 

5,547 

5,528 

79,135 

New  Jersey 

51,342 

44,756 

42,424 

45,671 

28,348 

465,203 

New  Mexico 

47,628 

37,904 

50,115 

54,227 

48,598 

474,405 

New  York 

116,164 

157,213 

108,529 

89,679 

89,816 

1,081,117 

North  Carolina 

369,648 

512,470 

472,935 

173,800 

144,126 

2,338,602 

North  Dakota 

173,876 

212,871 

222,315 

281,578 

229,596 

1,876,863 

Ohio 

151,867 

311,252 

403,358 

202,136 

191,311 

2,483,541 

Oklahoma 

118,115 

79,407 

98,965 

69,212 

75,503 

1,068,129 

Oregon 

191,966 

241,827 

232,181 

192,337 

123,667 

1,699,026 

Pennsylvania 

75,300 

90,970 

91,760 

90,208 

92,141 

996,834 

Rhode  Island 

2,351 

11,816 

3,674 

3,669 

7,901 

56,904 

South  Carolina 

94,860 

105,523 

67,666 

56,292 

47,160 

677,414 

South  Dakota 

104,456 

137,913 

260,395 

125,397 

84,662 

1,188,465 

Tennessee 

38,254 

48,984 

113,188 

183,606 

199,756 

892,657 

Texas 

432,812 

411,835 

575,008 

396,627 

458,143 

4,336,062 

Utah 

12,613 

14,966 

18,005 

15,934 

15,047 

171,254 

Vermont 

2,557 

4,387 

5,138 

5,738 

3,604 

64,437 

Virginia 

78,063 

103,312 

152,232 

69,139 

88,448 

752,685 

Washington 

267,789 

386,494 

355,960 

284,355 

248,767 

2,844,292 

West  Virginia 

7,542 

11,822 

5,985 

7,065 

8,521 

70,787 

Wisconsin 

120,045 

146,066 

129,996 

194,605 

123,512 

1,225,460 

Wyomi  ng 

33,146 

8,771 

10,321 

44,610 

25,202 

168,850 

United  States 

6,373,684 

8,984,239 

11,045,919 

9,308,430 

8,205,148 

81,941,767 

161 


Table  18--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1992 


State 

January  : 

February  : 

March  : 

April  : 

May  : 

June  : 

July 

1 

,000  dollars 

Alabama 

198,700 

205,309 

224,314 

213,159 

206,700 

195,361 

199,714 

Alaska 

1,851 

1,659 

1,856 

1,695 

1,571 

1,800 

2,282 

Arizona 

213,407 

132,988 

155,155 

124,383 

137,629 

140,682 

119,844 

Arkansas 

398,727 

291,750 

261,494 

255,382 

254,109 

353,758 

292,290 

California 

1,075,371 

899,826 

1,086,710 

1,220,522 

1,295,099 

1,374,655 

1,702,061 

Colorado 

361,799 

303,410 

321,845 

321,669 

301,341 

280,981 

315,915 

Connecticut 

65,425 

30,852 

38,232 

43,934 

39,128 

32,183 

36,479 

Delaware 

46,557 

48,436 

41,087 

46,483 

47,560 

51,314 

56,077 

Florida 

766,089 

700,058 

728,414 

827,276 

592,427 

333,457 

311,148 

Georgia 

258,978 

236,444 

239,594 

272,976 

259,969 

294,690 

314,540 

Hawai i 

47,073 

42,845 

47,586 

45,453 

46,594 

47,673 

48,145 

Idaho 

206,662 

170,167 

195,061 

189,740 

156,285 

144,236 

155,122 

Illinois 

1,004,989 

584,452 

533,499 

387,316 

486,565 

555,499 

482,167 

Indiana 

456,183 

296,650 

281,916 

216,514 

231,613 

308,022 

290,586 

Iowa 

1,067,177 

770,501 

865,039 

626,232 

742,677 

740,454 

761,573 

Kansas 

614,424 

487,981 

489,612 

430,320 

507,614 

723,787 

765,921 

Kentucky 

473,381 

188,490 

149,277 

131,211 

121,965 

142,113 

327,673 

Louisiana 

205,567 

123,745 

81,957 

79,476 

66,541 

83,177 

80,674 

Maine 

42,573 

41,268 

44,993 

45,563 

37,187 

26,525 

39,455 

Maryland 

95,860 

91,538 

100,638 

123,332 

108,395 

105,810 

133,534 

Massachusetts 

34,470 

23,015 

28,808 

33,104 

31,287 

32,265 

35,434 

Michigan 

294,859 

224,214 

225,217 

243,567 

227,614 

205,164 

299,545 

Minnesota 

735,250 

512,616 

537,320 

427,220 

443,966 

464,578 

517,209 

Mississippi 

256,871 

188,540 

170,705 

151,246 

132,387 

153,179 

149,857 

Missouri 

384,796 

283,273 

288,898 

223,800 

256,289 

361,087 

291,642 

Montana 

166,298 

148,356 

168,237 

121,113 

108,333 

74,511 

57,440 

Nebraska 

923,007 

741,756 

671,402 

518,036 

671,588 

585,385 

629,393 

Nevada 

23,579 

24,668 

26,161 

25,013 

22,551 

18,725 

17,829 

New  Hampshire 

11,242 

10,875 

12,928 

13,724 

11,496 

8,367 

10,342 

New  Jersey 

34,638 

31,380 

40,668 

49,617 

48,205 

66,063 

86,861 

New  Mexico 

113,581 

109,483 

115,750 

109,627 

120,160 

134,647 

128,116 

New  York 

224,717 

202,152 

237,356 

251,424 

238,201 

231,319 

231,364 

North  Carolina 

298,271 

271,483 

290,448 

299,523 

312,641 

380,766 

446,412 

North  Dakota 

300,774 

199,045 

197,274 

165,511 

121,906 

160,766 

187,250 

Ohio 

380,758 

281,014 

303,016 

260,271 

278,750 

255,454 

353,918 

Oklahoma 

248,637 

279,605 

279,263 

275,721 

327,434 

354,672 

404,008 

Oregon 

165,554 

136,316 

144,773 

149,108 

118,316 

159,562 

233,497 

Pennsylvania 

297,285 

278,537 

298,437 

293,635 

297,195 

271,841 

280,381 

Rhode  Island 

3,856 

3,918 

5,792 

7,359 

5,842 

3,677 

4,780 

South  Carolina 

80,793 

64,154 

68,385 

72,157 

69,964 

99,105 

116,348 

South  Dakota 

285,478 

253,803 

243,956 

243,187 

181,410 

183,797 

220,944 

Tennessee 

192,188 

154,709 

125,328 

110,458 

113,696 

132,560 

121,414 

Texas 

882,495 

720,411 

767,625 

886,193 

942,388 

873,069 

1,146,688 

Utah 

56,577 

53,190 

59,130 

66,178 

50,967 

52,607 

63,425 

Vermont 

37,021 

33,691 

39,861 

43,978 

41,290 

35,334 

40,419 

Virginia 

133,957 

122,292 

131,738 

144,044 

131,686 

156,023 

193,065 

Washington 

339,295 

304,458 

327,653 

311,189 

271,013 

325,066 

309,665 

West  Virginia 

25,520 

21,296 

25,617 

26,761 

23,474 

26,579 

26,883 

Wisconsin 

465,256 

385,724 

422,486 

419,291 

464,385 

460,215 

469,013 

Wyoming 

41,544 

65,179 

54,032 

46,119 

46,122 

21,455 

25,047 

United  States 

15,039,360 

11,777,522 

12,196,543 

11,590,810 

11,751,525 

12,224,015 

13,533,389 

conti nued-- 


162 


Table  18--Cash  receipts  from  farm  marketings,  by  State  and  month,  1992- -continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

:  November 

:  December 

:  Total 

1, 

000  dollars 

Alabama 

223,971 

310,182 

360,419 

271,536 

220,697 

2,830,062 

Alaska 

2,748 

2,371 

2,486 

2,592 

2,567 

25,478 

Arizona 

106,205 

111,335 

178,148 

209,863 

205,611 

1,835,250 

Arkansas 

294,355 

456,392 

692,975 

584,898 

466,100 

4,602,230 

California 

1,613,665 

1,865,450 

2,275,796 

2,254,597 

1,570,262 

18,234,014 

Colorado 

302,462 

370,981 

401,311 

399,205 

357,470 

4,038,389 

Connecticut 

34,770 

49,145 

39,475 

41,850 

37,273 

488,746 

Delaware 

63,367 

56,116 

75,177 

61,969 

41,619 

635,762 

Florida 

301,229 

278,260 

294,105 

409,847 

602,198 

6,144,508 

Georgia 

368,992 

516,082 

618,708 

388,742 

303,410 

4,073,125 

Hawai i 

48,499 

46,644 

48,910 

47,375 

47,354 

564,151 

Idaho 

238,141 

293,233 

405,523 

353,145 

308,197 

2,815,512 

I llinois 

487,275 

830,435 

970,483 

582,693 

728,319 

7, 633,692 

Indiana 

285,443 

619,878 

693,564 

395,147 

429,776 

4,505,292 

Iowa 

817,551 

834,089 

1,167,866 

929,940 

1,006,613 

10,329,712 

Kansas 

575,763 

596,411 

794,289 

497,825 

516,360 

7,000,307 

Kentucky 

140,623 

239,182 

247,940 

478,761 

580,689 

3,221,305 

Louisiana 

98,055 

141,052 

284,188 

326,307 

275,442 

1,846,181 

Maine 

50,894 

46,699 

44,888 

50,136 

43,006 

513,187 

Maryland 

106,286 

132,462 

150,874 

141,387 

100,649 

1,390,765 

Massachusetts 

46,191 

62,401 

52,041 

66,429 

45,789 

491,234 

M i ch i gan 

231,253 

308,064 

358,289 

349,962 

318,581 

3,286,329 

Minnesota 

502,853 

602,219 

825,140 

774,714 

738,984 

7,082,069 

Mississippi 

140,242 

167,179 

376,925 

369,121 

345,714 

2,601,966 

Missouri 

276,094 

379,379 

593,511 

384,661 

399,870 

4,123,300 

Montana 

79,526 

128,372 

262,653 

260,761 

166,808 

1,742,408 

Nebraska 

654,449 

666,123 

1,091,635 

775,629 

854,250 

8,782,653 

Nevada 

24,547 

20,251 

27,843 

20,217 

21,411 

272,795 

New  Hampshire 

12,657 

16,791 

12,738 

11,513 

11,310 

143,983 

New  Jersey 

69,819 

62,163 

58,940 

63,881 

44,653 

656,888 

New  Mexico 

119,837 

120,728 

171,227 

172,269 

115,000 

1,530,425 

New  York 

264,208 

316,392 

267,074 

242,891 

238,941 

2,946,039 

North  Carolina 

615,234 

768,913 

687,723 

459,935 

349,668 

5,181,017 

North  Dakota 

287,281 

327,861 

413,047 

390,699 

342,198 

3,093,612 

Ohio 

266,358 

470,631 

579,952 

347,386 

389,808 

4,167,316 

Oklahoma 

382,547 

289,929 

358,469 

224,069 

210,577 

3,634,931 

Oregon 

261,301 

325,772 

331,909 

271,271 

192,442 

2,489,821 

Pennsylvania 

296,080 

320,429 

336,391 

319,510 

328,769 

3,618,490 

Rhode  Island 

3,582 

14,935 

5,022 

5,111 

8,344 

72,218 

South  Carolina 

136,103 

157,359 

128,257 

101,971 

82,150 

1,176,746 

South  Dakota 

224,090 

315,518 

490,927 

321,556 

264,814 

3,229,480 

Tennessee 

147,629 

138,871 

234,546 

255,692 

376,380 

2,103,471 

Texas 

1,110,604 

1,069,689 

1,254,771 

1,004,482 

961,427 

11,619,842 

Utah 

57,748 

63,993 

74,359 

67,570 

72,594 

738,338 

Vermont 

35,386 

36,814 

37,342 

35,603 

35,159 

451,898 

Vi rginia 

188,973 

248,622 

313,419 

192,137 

178,397 

2,134,353 

Washington 

454,167 

550,458 

492,000 

406,471 

362,788 

4,454,223 

West  Virginia 

30,823 

39,045 

36,880 

32,277 

27,393 

342,548 

Wisconsin 

475,752 

487,698 

477,265 

503,366 

468,587 

5,499,038 

Wyoming 

59,217 

111,101 

123,452 

114,427 

65,617 

773,312 

United  States 

13,614,845 

16,384,099 

20,220,872 

16,973,396 

15,862,035 

171,168,411 

163 


Table  19--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  b y  State  and  month,  1992 


State 

January 

February  : 

March 

April  : 

May  : 

Jure  : 

July 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

150,042 

173,934 

185,991 

166,571 

172,791 

148,588 

166,875 

Alaska 

485 

443 

489 

479 

505 

490 

496 

Arizona 

76,195 

69,756 

71,879 

68,871 

90,399 

77,264 

69,056 

Arkansas 

195,727 

207,288 

199,626 

208,994 

219,039 

233,200 

238,065 

California 

418,059 

377,728 

402,927 

396,085 

462,361 

410,386 

463,092 

Colorado 

239,369 

232,022 

256,426 

260,537 

252,349 

231,674 

216,752 

Connect  i  cut 

19,886 

17,807 

18,819 

18,892 

19,871 

19,276 

18,656 

Delaware 

38,514 

38,423 

32,935 

35,908 

38,716 

36,264 

43,800 

Florida 

97,564 

96,525 

100,155 

94,073 

89,212 

87,585 

94,134 

Georgia 

182,767 

186,323 

176,223 

199,388 

182,661 

182,181 

207,606 

Hawai i 

7,268 

6,996 

7,561 

7,157 

7,784 

7,748 

7,121 

Idaho 

94,483 

96,266 

99,370 

95,328 

97,834 

84,362 

84,248 

I l linois 

176,211 

159,117 

168,153 

173,666 

186,744 

187,103 

186,322 

Indiana 

139,681 

128,777 

140,674 

147,269 

127,763 

156,914 

150,490 

Iowa 

455,371 

462,467 

486,776 

441,066 

480,800 

463,468 

422,066 

Kansas 

392,965 

377,683 

372,469 

368,554 

421,367 

350,981 

418,102 

Kentucky 

115,571 

101,371 

104,396 

106,869 

92,964 

92,206 

282,053 

Louisiana 

40,221 

43,872 

46,556 

49,796 

44,052 

53,033 

56,805 

Maine 

25,213 

23,594 

24,350 

23,392 

24,644 

24,868 

24,272 

Maryland 

68,101 

65,585 

60,509 

65,671 

69,471 

67,155 

71,067 

Massachusetts 

11,411 

10,766 

11,718 

11,415 

11,832 

11,326 

11,180 

Michigan 

113,175 

93,702 

106,269 

107,436 

109,635 

87,505 

115,867 

Minnesota 

293,644 

278,400 

285,337 

296,462 

309,866 

296,473 

301,369 

Mississippi 

104,434 

112,303 

105,856 

104,504 

104,352 

102,890 

119,152 

Missouri 

152,365 

178,539 

175,618 

170,644 

174,841 

178,023 

181,941 

Montana 

74,081 

73,397 

71,290 

54,530 

62,885 

45,252 

23,768 

Nebraska 

438,592 

490,835 

401,663 

380,834 

529,921 

438,455 

429,996 

Nevada 

17,646 

18,469 

17,912 

17,713 

19,486 

15,857 

12,894 

New  Hampshire 

6,005 

5,599 

5,704 

5,612 

5,709 

5,105 

4,956 

New  Jersey 

16,192 

14,900 

16,428 

15,927 

16,621 

15,796 

16,101 

New  Mexico 

87,713 

91,609 

95,076 

89,663 

82,953 

80,362 

61,046 

New  York 

163,726 

143,980 

156,831 

160,681 

165,724 

164,052 

161,726 

North  Carolina 

205,761 

202,646 

205,818 

221,916 

228,764 

229,745 

229,122 

North  Dakota 

88,407 

73,764 

64,902 

48,541 

37,888 

35,341 

29,420 

Ohio 

129,141 

117,847 

125,840 

129,077 

128,216 

133,403 

129,901 

Oklahoma 

174,854 

233,003 

240,724 

226,383 

262,073 

135,798 

232,692 

Oregon 

71,117 

59,500 

60,151 

64,077 

52,859 

61,601 

58,254 

Pennsylvania 

195,880 

200,106 

211,772 

205,275 

220,817 

205,224 

202,800 

Rhode  Island 

1,053 

978 

1,057 

1,020 

1,065 

1,017 

1,035 

South  Carolina 

44,114 

38,930 

42,843 

46,337 

44,741 

40,386 

41,577 

South  Dakota 

180,613 

179,334 

173,464 

191,338 

139,528 

134,448 

112,757 

Tennessee 

68,610 

106,009 

88,228 

77,833 

79,403 

83,107 

87,151 

Texas 

529,132 

526,586 

573,465 

678,747 

682,255 

603,667 

683,761 

Utah 

43,319 

42,807 

44,161 

43,248 

42,002 

43,485 

47,850 

Vermont 

34,082 

30,584 

32,319 

32,290 

33,868 

32,578 

31,921 

Vi rginia 

93,343 

95,400 

102,724 

116,020 

100,593 

92,706 

106,340 

Washington 

126,040 

106,531 

136,340 

131,195 

120,127 

126,748 

119,132 

West  Virginia 

19,245 

17,096 

22,106 

24,154 

20,644 

19,938 

19,831 

Wisconsin 

343,331 

318,593 

352,307 

356,199 

392,372 

383,651 

380,351 

Wyoming 

29,173 

57,963 

47,011 

40,461 

39,675 

16,995 

18,755 

United  States 

6,789,892 

6,786,153 

6,931,218 

6,978,098 

7,302,042 

6,735,680 

7,193,724 

continued-- 


164 


Table  19--Cash  receipts  from  livestock  and  livestock  products,  by  State  and  month,  1992- -continued 


State 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

200,201 

191,038 

176,650 

181,678 

148,200 

2,062,559 

Alaska 

508 

478 

499 

473 

502 

5,847 

Arizona 

76,401 

67,326 

79,903 

72,465 

72,948 

892,463 

Arkansas 

254,875 

238,292 

242,873 

250,609 

213,141 

2,701,729 

California 

477,524 

441,658 

419,848 

396,409 

388,653 

5,054,730 

Colorado 

204,314 

277,913 

286,989 

269,250 

227,609 

2,955,204 

Connect i cut 

20,176 

20,156 

20,641 

24,095 

21,358 

239,633 

Delaware 

40,881 

34,798 

39,617 

40,098 

31,372 

451,326 

Florida 

110,638 

106,525 

93,514 

96,296 

93,374 

1,159,595 

Georgia 

209,069 

195,713 

203,831 

199,714 

183,807 

2,309,283 

Hawai i 

7,341 

7,253 

7,564 

7,426 

7,210 

88,429 

Idaho 

107,098 

102,057 

122,754 

95,285 

93,882 

1,172,967 

Illinois 

200,980 

190,777 

209,182 

186,004 

178,087 

2,202,346 

I ndi ana 

170,880 

155,274 

178,764 

176,531 

148,426 

1,821,443 

Iowa 

497, 189 

486,782 

505,620 

439,081 

473,402 

5,614,088 

Kansas 

418,570 

370,880 

442,728 

331,598 

292,168 

4,558,065 

Kentucky 

116,147 

153,908 

139,994 

239,616 

95,974 

1,641,069 

Louisiana 

57,085 

55,028 

51,078 

45,305 

44,422 

587,253 

Maine 

25,570 

25,699 

25,762 

27,377 

25,760 

300,501 

Maryland 

71,167 

63,966 

68,815 

71,395 

61,071 

803,973 

Massachusetts 

11,209 

10,898 

11,244 

10,659 

11,278 

134,936 

Michigan 

104,681 

123,024 

123,070 

119,863 

120,382 

1,324,609 

Minnesota 

304,147 

300,365 

345,334 

310,589 

300,315 

3,622,301 

Mississippi 

126,199 

126,368 

127,513 

113,798 

107,747 

1,355,116 

Missouri 

193,890 

200,631 

217,647 

197,676 

166,554 

2,188,369 

Montana 

22,389 

56,290 

186,962 

161,665 

88,803 

921,312 

Nebraska 

527,474 

487,245 

643,045 

479,672 

425,859 

5,673,591 

Nevada 

18,862 

14,860 

21,322 

12,714 

13,913 

201,648 

New  Hampshire 

4,940 

4,919 

5,168 

5,690 

5,601 

65,008 

New  Jersey 

16,223 

15,660 

16,252 

16,093 

16,190 

192,383 

New  Mexico 

70,471 

85,031 

115,194 

115,190 

65,793 

1,040,101 

New  York 

161,268 

159,987 

161,171 

156,525 

158,382 

1,914,053 

North  Carolina 

240,881 

241,478 

275,896 

293,261 

219,561 

2,794,849 

North  Dakota 

46,876 

53,104 

129,374 

80,591 

66,643 

754,851 

Ohio 

132,138 

134,576 

142,915 

140,208 

136,731 

1,579,993 

Oklahoma 

258,045 

214,817 

241,811 

146,692 

130,785 

2,497,677 

Oregon 

65,221 

78,198 

84,358 

75,395 

64,574 

795,305 

Pennsylvania 

208,330 

220,452 

236,555 

222,084 

224,956 

2,554,251 

Rhode  Island 

1,044 

1,027 

1,090 

1,220 

1,085 

12,691 

South  Carolina 

45,275 

49,820 

54,892 

51,913 

44,418 

545,246 

South  Dakota 

131,983 

158,790 

225,076 

194,961 

144,076 

1,966,368 

T  emessee 

115,281 

86,412 

94,887 

96,029 

78,296 

1,061,246 

Texas 

700,842 

694,852 

706,781 

608,789 

534,211 

7,523,088 

Utah 

43,927 

46,610 

55,652 

49,703 

53,598 

556,362 

Vermont 

32,645 

32,666 

33,232 

30,589 

31,728 

388,502 

Vi rginia 

121,337 

141,611 

159,731 

124,712 

98,398 

1,352,915 

Washington 

130,066 

130,497 

134,474 

137,673 

133,248 

1,532,071 

West  Virginia 

22,496 

26,877 

30,656 

25,335 

18,694 

267,072 

Wisconsin 

375,282 

355,270 

362,710 

345,649 

347,647 

4,313,362 

Wyoming 

34,638 

102,994 

111,710 

68,453 

38,357 

606,185 

United  States 

7,534,674 

7,540,850 

8,372,348 

7,544,096 

6,649,189 

86,357,964 

165 


Table  20--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1992 


State 


January 


February 


March 


Apri  l 


May 


Jine 


July 


1,000  dollars 


Alabama 

48,658 

31,375 

38,323 

46,588 

33,909 

46,773 

32,839 

Alaska 

1,366 

1,216 

1,367 

1,216 

1,066 

1,310 

1,786 

Arizona 

137,212 

63,232 

83,276 

55,512 

47,230 

63,418 

50,788 

Arkansas 

203,000 

84,462 

61,868 

46,388 

35,070 

120,558 

54,225 

California 

657,312 

522,098 

683,783 

824,437 

832,738 

964,269 

1,238,969 

Colorado 

122,430 

71,388 

65,419 

61,132 

48,992 

49,307 

99,163 

Connect i cut 

45,539 

13,045 

19,413 

25,042 

19,257 

12,907 

17,823 

Delaware 

8,043 

10,013 

8,152 

10,575 

8,844 

15,050 

12,277 

Florida 

668,525 

603,533 

628,259 

733,203 

503,215 

245,872 

217,014 

Georgia 

76,211 

50,121 

63,371 

73,588 

77,308 

112,509 

106,934 

Hawai i 

39,805 

35,849 

40,025 

38,296 

38,810 

39,925 

41,024 

Idaho 

112,179 

73,901 

95,691 

94,412 

58,451 

59,874 

70,874 

Illinois 

828,778 

425,335 

365,346 

213,650 

299,821 

368,396 

295,845 

Indiana 

316,502 

167,873 

141,242 

69,245 

103,850 

151,108 

140,096 

Iowa 

611,806 

308,034 

378,263 

185,166 

261,877 

276,986 

339,507 

Kansas 

221,459 

110,298 

117,143 

61,766 

86,247 

372,806 

347,819 

Kentucky 

357,810 

87,119 

44,881 

24,342 

29,001 

49,907 

45,620 

Louisiana 

165,346 

79,873 

35,401 

29,680 

22,489 

30,144 

23,869 

Maine 

17,360 

17,674 

20,643 

22,171 

12,543 

1,657 

15,183 

Maryland 

27,759 

25,953 

40,129 

57,661 

38,924 

38,655 

62,467 

Massachusetts 

23,059 

12,249 

17,090 

21,689 

19,455 

20,939 

24,254 

Michigan 

181,684 

130,512 

118,948 

136,131 

117,979 

117,659 

183,678 

Minnesota 

441,606 

234,216 

251,983 

130,758 

134,100 

168,105 

215,840 

Mississippi 

152,437 

76,237 

64,849 

46,742 

28,035 

50,289 

30,705 

Missouri 

232,431 

104,734 

113,280 

53,156 

81,448 

183,064 

109,701 

Montana 

92,217 

74,959 

96,947 

66,583 

45,448 

29,259 

33,672 

Nebraska 

484,415 

250,921 

269,739 

137,202 

141,667 

146,930 

199,397 

Nevada 

5,933 

6,199 

8,249 

7,300 

3,065 

2,868 

4,935 

New  Hampshire 

5,237 

5,276 

7,224 

8,112 

5,787 

3,262 

5,386 

New  Jersey 

18,446 

16,480 

24,240 

33,690 

31,584 

50,267 

70,760 

New  Mexico 

25,868 

17,874 

20,674 

19,964 

37,207 

54,285 

67,070 

New  York 

60,991 

58,172 

80,525 

90,743 

72,477 

67,267 

69,638 

North  Carolina 

92,510 

68,837 

84,630 

77,607 

83,877 

151,021 

217,290 

North  Dakota 

212,367 

125,281 

132,372 

116,970 

84,018 

125,425 

157,830 

Ohio 

251,617 

163,167 

177,176 

131,194 

150,534 

122,051 

224,017 

Oklahoma 

73,783 

46,602 

38,539 

49,338 

65,361 

218,874 

171,316 

Oregon 

94,437 

76,816 

84,622 

85,031 

65,457 

97,961 

175,243 

Pennsylvania 

101,405 

78,431 

86,665 

88,360 

76,378 

66,617 

77,581 

Rhode  Island 

2,803 

2,940 

4,735 

6,339 

4,777 

2,660 

3,745 

South  Carolina 

36,679 

25,224 

25,542 

25,820 

25,223 

58,719 

74,771 

South  Dakota 

104,865 

74,469 

70,492 

51,849 

41,882 

49,349 

108,187 

T  emessee 

123,578 

48,700 

37,100 

32,625 

34,293 

49,453 

34,263 

Texas 

353,363 

193,825 

194,160 

207,446 

260,133 

269,402 

462,927 

Utah 

13,258 

10,383 

14,969 

22,930 

8,965 

9,122 

15,575 

Vermont 

2,939 

3,107 

7,542 

11,688 

7,422 

2,756 

8,498 

Vi rginia 

40,614 

26,892 

29,014 

28,024 

31,093 

63,317 

86,725 

Washington 

213,255 

197,927 

191,313 

179,994 

150,886 

198,318 

190,533 

West  Virginia 

6,275 

4,200 

3,511 

2,607 

2,830 

6,641 

7,052 

Wisconsin 

121,925 

67,131 

70,179 

63,092 

72,013 

76,564 

88,662 

Wyoming 

12,371 

7,216 

7,021 

5,658 

6,447 

4,460 

6,292 

United  States 

8,249,468 

4,991,369 

5,265,325 

4,612,712 

4,449,483 

5,488,335 

6,339,665 

continued-- 


166 


Table  20--Cash  receipts  from  crops,  by  State  and  month,  1992 --continued 


State 

August 

September 

:  October 

November 

December 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

23,770 

119,144 

183,769 

89,858 

72,497 

767,503 

Alaska 

2,240 

1,893 

1,987 

2,119 

2,065 

19,631 

Arizona 

29,804 

44,009 

98,245 

137,398 

132,663 

942,787 

Arkansas 

39,480 

218,100 

450,102 

334,289 

252,959 

1,900,501 

California 

1,136,141 

1,423,792 

1,855,948 

1,858,188 

1,181,609 

13,179,284 

Colorado 

98,148 

93,068 

114,322 

129,955 

129,861 

1,083,185 

Connecticut 

14,594 

28,989 

18,834 

17,755 

15,915 

249,113 

Delaware 

22,486 

21,318 

35,560 

21,871 

10,247 

184,436 

Florida 

190,591 

171,735 

200,591 

313,551 

508,824 

4,984,913 

Georgia 

159,923 

320,369 

414,877 

189,028 

119,603 

1,763,842 

Hawai  i 

41,158 

39,391 

41,346 

39,949 

40,144 

475,722 

Idaho 

131,043 

191,176 

282,769 

257,860 

214,315 

1,642,545 

Illinois 

286,295 

639,658 

761,301 

396,689 

550,232 

5,431,346 

Indiana 

114,563 

464,604 

514,800 

218,616 

281,350 

2,683,849 

Iowa 

320,362 

347,307 

662,246 

490,859 

533,211 

4,715,624 

Kansas 

157,193 

225,531 

351,561 

166,227 

224,192 

2,442,242 

Kentucky 

24,476 

85,274 

107,946 

239,145 

484,715 

1,580,236 

Louisiana 

40,970 

86,024 

233,110 

281,002 

231,020 

1,258,928 

Maine 

25,324 

21,000 

19,126 

22,759 

17,246 

212,686 

Maryland 

35,119 

68,496 

82,059 

69,992 

39,578 

586,792 

Massachusetts 

34,982 

51,503 

40,797 

55,770 

34,511 

356,298 

Michigan 

126,572 

185,040 

235,219 

230,099 

198,199 

1,961,720 

Minnesota 

198,706 

301,854 

479,806 

464,125 

438,669 

3,459,768 

Mississippi 

14,043 

40,811 

249,412 

255,323 

237,967 

1,246,850 

Missouri 

82,204 

178,748 

375,864 

186,985 

233,316 

1,934,931 

Montana 

57,137 

72,082 

75,691 

99,096 

78,005 

821,096 

Nebraska 

126,975 

178,878 

448,590 

295,957 

428,391 

3,109,062 

Nevada 

5,685 

5,391 

6,521 

7,503 

7,498 

71,147 

New  Hampshire 

7,717 

11,872 

7,570 

5,823 

5,709 

78,975 

New  Jersey 

53,596 

46,503 

42,688 

47,788 

28,463 

464,505 

New  Mexico 

49,366 

35,697 

56,033 

57,079 

49,207 

490,324 

New  York 

102,940 

156,405 

105,903 

86,366 

80,559 

1,031,986 

North  Carolina 

374,353 

527,435 

411,827 

166,674 

130,107 

2,386,168 

North  Dakota 

240,405 

274,757 

283,673 

310,108 

275,555 

2,338,761 

Ohio 

134,220 

336,055 

437,037 

207,178 

253,077 

2,587,323 

Oklahoma 

124,502 

75,112 

116,658 

77,377 

79,792 

1,137,254 

Oregon 

196,080 

247,574 

247,551 

195,876 

127,868 

1,694,516 

Pennsylvania 

87,750 

99,977 

99,836 

97,426 

103,813 

1,064,239 

Rhode  Island 

2,538 

13,908 

3,932 

3,891 

7,259 

59,527 

South  Carolina 

90,828 

107,539 

73,365 

50,058 

37,732 

631,500 

South  Dakota 

92,107 

156,728 

265,851 

126,595 

120,738 

1,263,112 

Tennessee 

32,348 

52,459 

139,659 

159,663 

298,084 

1,042,225 

Texas 

409,762 

374,837 

547,990 

395,693 

427,216 

4,096,754 

Utah 

13,821 

17,383 

18,707 

17,867 

18,996 

181 ,976 

Vermont 

2,741 

4,148 

4,110 

5,014 

3,431 

63,396 

Virginia 

67,636 

107,011 

153,688 

67,425 

79,999 

781,438 

Washington 

324,101 

419,961 

357,526 

268,798 

229,540 

2,922,152 

West  Virginia 

8,327 

12,168 

6,224 

6,942 

8,699 

75,476 

Wisconsin 

100,470 

132,428 

114,555 

157,717 

120,940 

1,185,676 

Wyoming 

24,579 

8,107 

11,742 

45,974 

27,260 

167,127 

United  States 

6,080,171 

8,843,249 

11,848,524 

9,429,300 

9,212,846 

84,810,447 

167 


Table  21 --Value  of  home  agricultural  commodity  consumption,  by  State,  1990-92  1/ 


1990 

1991 

1992 

State 

Livestock  : 

Livestock  : 

Livestock  : 

and  : 

Crops  : 

Total 

and  : 

Crops  : 

Total 

and  : 

Crops  : 

Total 

products  : 

products  : 

products  : 

1 

,000  dol lars 

Alabama 

4,339 

3,208 

7,547 

4,108 

2,609 

6,717 

4,250 

2,470 

6,720 

Alaska 

478 

40 

518 

533 

32 

565 

606 

31 

637 

Arizona 

4,112 

532 

4,644 

3,889 

464 

4,353 

3,892 

439 

4,331 

Arkansas 

7,845 

3,208 

11,053 

7,455 

2,667 

10,122 

7,561 

2,525 

10,086 

Cal ifornia 

21,959 

5,802 

27,761 

22,207 

4,871 

27,078 

19,398 

4,611 

24,009 

Colorado 

7,451 

1,809 

9,260 

6,781 

1,508 

8,289 

5,704 

1,427 

7,131 

Connecticut 

1,733 

266 

1,999 

1,762 

226 

1,988 

1,215 

214 

1,429 

Delaware 

1,711 

198 

1,909 

1,411 

168 

1,579 

1,471 

159 

1,630 

Florida 

2,280 

2,799 

5,079 

2,561 

2,319 

4,880 

2,370 

2,196 

4,566 

Georgia 

5,772 

3,345 

9,117 

4,926 

2,667 

7,593 

5,537 

2,525 

8,062 

Hawai i 

769 

314 

1,083 

1,782 

267 

2,049 

1,221 

252 

1,473 

Idaho 

9,186 

1,488 

10,674 

8,268 

1,241 

9,509 

7,519 

1,175 

8,694 

1 1 1 inois 

32,145 

5,666 

37,811 

25,553 

4,755 

30,308 

24,970 

4,501 

29,471 

Indiana 

13,319 

4,642 

17,961 

10,201 

3,769 

13,970 

10,766 

3,568 

14,334 

Iowa 

25,909 

7,099 

33,008 

20,274 

5,914 

26,188 

16,140 

5,599 

21,739 

Kansas 

12,615 

4,710 

17,325 

9,316 

4,001 

13,317 

13,872 

3,787 

17,659 

Kentucky 

17,025 

6,348 

23,373 

16,175 

5,276 

21,451 

16,004 

4,995 

20,999 

Louisiana 

4,559 

2,321 

6,880 

3,676 

1,739 

5,415 

3,196 

1,647 

4,843 

Maine 

2,615 

498 

3,113 

3,086 

406 

3,492 

2,224 

384 

2,608 

Maryland 

6,859 

1,038 

7,897 

6,394 

893 

7,287 

7,447 

845 

8,292 

Massachusetts 

1,487 

471 

1,958 

2,058 

400 

2,458 

1,717 

379 

2,096 

Michigan 

12,461 

3,686 

16,147 

10,830 

3,131 

13,961 

11,178 

2,964 

14,142 

Minnesota 

24,174 

6,075 

30,249 

20,088 

5,102 

25,190 

21,395 

4,830 

26,225 

Mississippi 

6,792 

2,731 

9,523 

6,159 

2,203 

8,362 

6,049 

2,086 

8,135 

M i ssour i 

29,956 

7,372 

37,328 

30,865 

6,204 

37,069 

25,530 

5,873 

31,403 

Montana 

9,230 

1,686 

10,916 

10,023 

1,438 

11,461 

10,052 

1,361 

11,413 

Nebraska 

11,121 

3,891 

15,012 

10,987 

3,247 

14,234 

10,009 

3,074 

13,083 

Nevada 

3,330 

171 

3,501 

1,948 

145 

2,093 

1,896 

137 

2,033 

New  Hampshire 

1,537 

205 

1,742 

1,507 

168 

1,675 

1,265 

159 

1,424 

New  Jersey 

1,145 

553 

1,698 

906 

481 

1,387 

1,032 

456 

1,488 

New  Mexico 

7,572 

922 

8,494 

7,110 

783 

7,893 

6,371 

741 

7,112 

New  York 

9,341 

2,628 

11,969 

8,870 

2,203 

11,073 

9,094 

2,086 

11,180 

North  Carolina 

16,228 

4,232 

20,460 

13,435 

3,479 

16,914 

12,743 

3,293 

16,036 

North  Dakota 

6,911 

2,321 

9,232 

8,870 

1,913 

10,783 

6,938 

1,811 

8,749 

Ohio 

17,565 

5,734 

23,299 

17,531 

4,639 

22,170 

22,237 

4,391 

26,628 

Oklahoma 

16,581 

4,778 

21,359 

18,293 

4,059 

22,352 

16,375 

3,842 

20,217 

Oregon 

21,032 

2,492 

23,524 

17,186 

2,145 

19,331 

14,310 

2,031 

16,341 

Pennsylvania 

23,749 

3,618 

27,367 

23,496 

3,073 

26,569 

21,346 

2,909 

24,255 

Rhode  Island 

155 

53 

208 

276 

41 

317 

252 

38 

290 

South  Carolina 

6,508 

1,672 

8,180 

5,973 

1,392 

7,365 

5,135 

1,317 

6,452 

South  Dakota 

12,789 

2,389 

15,178 

13,983 

2,029 

16,012 

12,280 

1,921 

14,201 

Tennessee 

17,216 

6,075 

23,291 

16,157 

5,045 

21,202 

16,385 

4,776 

21,161 

Texas 

25,159 

12,697 

37,856 

24,791 

10,727 

35,518 

20,252 

10,155 

30,407 

Utah 

8,280 

901 

9,181 

8,009 

771 

8,780 

8,073 

730 

8,803 

Vermont 

4,499 

478 

4,977 

2,707 

400 

3,107 

1,986 

379 

2,365 

Virginia 

15,842 

3,140 

18,982 

12,958 

2,609 

15,567 

13,035 

2,470 

15,505 

Washington 

18,440 

2,526 

20,966 

13,861 

2,145 

16,006 

14,611 

2,031 

16,642 

West  Virginia 

6,939 

1,399 

8,338 

5,987 

1,160 

7,147 

6,518 

1,098 

7,616 

Wisconsin 

20,596 

5,461 

26,057 

20,639 

4,581 

25,220 

19,998 

4,336 

24,334 

Wyomi ng 

3,580 

608 

4,188 

3,060 

522 

3,582 

5,845 

494 

6,339 

United  States 

542,896 

146,296 

689, 192 

498,921 

122,027 

620,948 

479,270 

115,518 

594,788 

1/  Value  of  farm  products  consumed  directly  by  farm  households  on  farms  where  produced. 


168 


Table  22--Commodi ty  Credit  Corporation  loan  placements,  by  State,  1988-92  1/ 


State 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Alabama 

77,724 

37,615 

1,000  dol lars 

20,035 

51,405 

74,388 

Alaska 

51 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Ari  zona 

107,578 

115,995 

47,058 

100,431 

131,129 

Arkansas 

611,132 

595,313 

522,090 

513,031 

678,566 

Cal ifornia 

506,004 

617,551 

289,180 

386,232 

652,551 

Colorado 

74,476 

34,363 

36,923 

41,721 

48,793 

Connecticut 

140 

0 

82 

28 

55 

Delaware 

1,387 

1,421 

831 

1,316 

1,855 

Florida 

6,135 

5,808 

1,092 

1,722 

2,925 

Georgia 

53,619 

34,470 

16,517 

32,279 

49,334 

Hawai i 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Idaho 

24,733 

17,540 

35,237 

24,934 

29,254 

I ll inois 

527,339 

316,810 

362,545 

322,494 

500,387 

Indiana 

199,583 

155,684 

174,209 

180,254 

245,255 

Iowa 

977,101 

558,143 

565,239 

585,350 

783,464 

Kansas 

209,147 

55,907 

101,526 

56,323 

78,819 

Kentucky 

27,366 

27,547 

31,247 

29,761 

41,408 

Louisiana 

358,585 

190,335 

239,158 

254,065 

366,197 

Maine 

100 

44 

8 

-8 

90 

Maryland 

5,664 

6,019 

7,472 

7,902 

14,166 

Massachusetts 

115 

207 

72 

102 

109 

Michigan 

104,405 

51,960 

56,391 

68,000 

47,642 

Minnesota 

468,889 

483,218 

467,663 

582,452 

585,624 

Mississippi 

453,526 

364,628 

299,299 

375,997 

504,944 

Missouri 

184,921 

129,379 

99,396 

130,401 

211,984 

Montana 

39,593 

32,632 

58,605 

63,050 

57,358 

Nebraska 

708,765 

312,027 

274,832 

335,263 

363,077 

Nevada 

7 

19 

5 

0 

0 

New  Hampshire 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

New  Jersey 

3,644 

1,214 

2,531 

2,948 

2,435 

New  Mexico 

16,412 

16,444 

11,537 

9,364 

13,079 

New  York 

37,463 

12,980 

16,902 

22,303 

13,745 

North  Carolina 

33,746 

39,846 

24,614 

30,416 

39,840 

North  Dakota 

131,409 

78,945 

169,211 

200,922 

198,836 

Ohio 

89,610 

96,575 

103,725 

104,668 

125,826 

Oklahoma 

73,492 

50,085 

25,576 

13,388 

31,822 

Oregon 

9,509 

3,870 

10,086 

8,305 

7,288 

Pennsylvania 

18,983 

1,158 

14,484 

6,401 

13,372 

Rhode  Island 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

South  Carolina 

24,957 

16,848 

7,837 

14,064 

17,721 

South  Dakota 

199,857 

95,273 

113,200 

127,880 

142,663 

Tennessee 

108,255 

53,579 

32,297 

106,444 

187,625 

Texas 

995,669 

1,007,989 

329,242 

340,511 

420,359 

Utah 

2,205 

1,372 

1,645 

1,879 

2,605 

Vermont 

84 

41 

35 

18 

136 

Virginia 

4,632 

6,499 

16,212 

12,317 

18,538 

Washington 

23,357 

17,615 

50,526 

23,168 

31,389 

West  Virginia 

432 

662 

1,059 

590 

1,161 

Wisconsin 

54,657 

55,354 

53,475 

71,966 

55,748 

Wyomi ng 

5,793 

1,152 

2,069 

1,902 

1,802 

United  States 

7,562,251 

5,702,136 

4,692,975 

5,243,959 

6,795,364 

1/  Payments  received  by  farmers  for 

commodities  placed 

under  nonrecourse  Commodity 

Credit  Corporation 

loans. 

169 


Table  23- -Commodity  Credit  Corporation  loan  redemptions,  by  State,  1988-92  1/ 


State 

1988  : 

1989 

1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Alabama 

53,061 

78,418 

1,000  dol lars 

26,911 

18,520 

78,569 

Alaska 

0 

10 

41 

0 

0 

Ari  zona 

101,486 

125,299 

66,081 

85,599 

100,596 

Arkansas 

335,585 

787,809 

508,392 

467,137 

521,251 

California 

392,421 

575,504 

434,470 

330,411 

508,424 

Colorado 

171,631 

102,684 

47,523 

53,051 

44,536 

Connecticut 

150 

20 

149 

28 

83 

Delaware 

2,975 

2,019 

1,479 

1,187 

1,252 

Florida 

4,834 

8,260 

1,106 

1,278 

2,064 

Georgia 

53,574 

58,245 

25,599 

12,640 

45,963 

Hawai i 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Idaho 

92,531 

53,330 

38,517 

37,110 

26,936 

1 1 1 inois 

1,627,314 

422,793 

350,998 

378,421 

275,714 

Indiana 

637,945 

179,642 

162,391 

195,247 

158,637 

Iowa 

2,219,640 

752,604 

612,784 

657,696 

524,073 

Kansas 

442,860 

162,922 

59,738 

101,131 

71,802 

Kentucky 

83,650 

28,870 

29,040 

32,566 

27,149 

Louisiana 

214,235 

331,186 

244,120 

141,382 

359,515 

Maine 

309 

55 

31 

9 

22 

Maryland 

13,204 

4,894 

6,586 

7,945 

8,336 

Massachusetts 

138 

148 

61 

73 

102 

Michigan 

185,516 

69,302 

55,936 

68,595 

64,524 

Minnesota 

1,203,657 

600,215 

504,337 

537,322 

529,534 

Mississippi 

304,449 

468,006 

362,325 

252,249 

538,004 

Missouri 

390,911 

179,090 

116,364 

107,393 

139,079 

Montana 

198,253 

40,664 

83,984 

62,642 

57,245 

Nebraska 

1,350,475 

598,491 

306,766 

353,756 

321,082 

Nevada 

269 

0 

19 

4 

0 

New  Hampshire 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

New  Jersey 

6,165 

1,501 

1,464 

2,341 

2,579 

New  Mexico 

23,126 

32,492 

10,925 

10,255 

10,495 

New  York 

47,873 

23,815 

13,743 

19,800 

22,397 

North  Carolina 

48,182 

40,742 

34,021 

21,938 

34,397 

North  Dakota 

492,209 

192,517 

110,264 

178,901 

204,483 

Ohio 

285,411 

116,652 

87,101 

108,414 

96,020 

Oklahoma 

70,352 

89,464 

29,857 

23,916 

24,684 

Oregon 

35,583 

30,687 

11,467 

15,240 

6,871 

Pennsylvania 

28,501 

6,803 

8,870 

11,176 

7,227 

Rhode  Island 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

South  Carolina 

22,391 

27,875 

12,159 

6,118 

18,415 

South  Dakota 

452,010 

165,599 

125,364 

123,546 

125,647 

Tennessee 

103,650 

105,159 

55,399 

30,600 

138,855 

Texas 

695,492 

1,276,479 

515,633 

336,087 

377,283 

Utah 

6,349 

3,480 

1,435 

1,411 

2,113 

Vermont 

53 

41 

41 

23 

55 

Virginia 

12,987 

9,227 

10,365 

9,800 

13,629 

Washington 

104,289 

70,151 

35,424 

47,517 

28,138 

West  Virginia 

1,425 

610 

549 

1,087 

491 

Wisconsin 

234,805 

90,910 

66,759 

69,116 

67,641 

Wyoming 

8,916 

4,064 

3,190 

2,063 

1,847 

Uni  ted  States 

12,760,842 

7,918,748 

5,179,778 

4,922,741 

5,587,759 

1/  Value  of  loans  redeemed  by  farmers  for  coimodities  previously  placed  under  nonrecourse  Conmodity  Credit 
Corporation  loans. 


170 


Table  24--Commodi ty  Credit  Corporation  loans  liquidated,  by  State,  1988-92  1/ 


State 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991  : 

1992 

Alabama 

1,103 

961 

1,000  dol tars 

129 

15 

116 

Alaska 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Ari  zona 

221 

665 

307 

7 

298 

Arkansas 

6,531 

-46,112 

869 

143 

1,202 

California 

2,561 

-3,671 

596 

909 

990 

Colorado 

23,274 

13,229 

11,074 

7,182 

161 

Connecticut 

32 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Delaware 

13 

134 

0 

0 

0 

Florida 

226 

316 

39 

0 

32 

Georgia 

1,917 

1,440 

316 

75 

166 

Hawai i 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Idaho 

11,380 

11,051 

14,940 

6,137 

114 

I llinois 

103,255 

179,457 

11,156 

106,712 

2,344 

Indiana 

25,020 

22,436 

3,120 

12,873 

321 

Iowa 

135,780 

289,706 

19,186 

142,607 

3,510 

Kansas 

116,936 

24,286 

17,000 

12,319 

228 

Kentucky 

2,528 

2,242 

205 

244 

207 

Louisiana 

1,484 

-4,596 

1,057 

98 

1,284 

Maine 

23 

19 

14 

3 

0 

Maryland 

888 

495 

60 

19 

329 

Massachusetts 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

M i ch i gan 

29,707 

33,004 

6,467 

22,411 

675 

Minnesota 

64,241 

250,855 

46,347 

168,873 

2,271 

Mississippi 

2,592 

-3,155 

3,033 

96 

1,337 

Missouri 

30,575 

626 

1,915 

4,261 

1,123 

Montana 

19,971 

6,503 

9,128 

11,023 

554 

Nebraska 

113,638 

295,473 

28,402 

221,655 

1,031 

Nevada 

34 

0 

0 

0 

0 

New  Hampshire 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

New  Jersey 

762 

3 

0 

25 

94 

New  Mexico 

9,016 

12,746 

2,042 

2,333 

81 

New  York 

9,352 

3,113 

1,837 

1,433 

553 

North  Carolina 

5,136 

10,458 

330 

60 

131 

North  Dakota 

41,165 

108,061 

68,416 

49,067 

1,879 

Ohio 

10,811 

9,876 

1,758 

8,436 

307 

Oklahoma 

18,746 

7,019 

3,150 

1,526 

233 

Oregon 

9,049 

2,976 

21,476 

9,244 

0 

Pennsylvania 

3,166 

282 

78 

541 

55 

Rhode  Island 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

South  Carolina 

638 

258 

74 

33 

53 

South  Dakota 

40,772 

37,158 

12,680 

24,382 

3,490 

Tennessee 

3,978 

2,389 

993 

440 

447 

Texas 

138,148 

105,572 

19,242 

8,864 

645 

Utah 

925 

497 

591 

776 

19 

Vermont 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

Virginia 

630 

976 

614 

98 

426 

Washington 

26,339 

19,348 

47,428 

1 1 , 274 

204 

West  Virginia 

6 

52 

59 

0 

0 

Wisconsin 

5,078 

26,612 

4,370 

26,970 

833 

Wyomi ng 

2,148 

309 

163 

11 

0 

United  States 

1,019,795 

1,423,069 

360,661 

863,175 

27,743 

1/  Value  of  nonrecourse  commodity  equals  loans  not  redeemed  by  farmers  by  the  end  of  the  option  period  and  thus 
officially  acknowledged  as  acquired  by  Commodity  Credit  Corporation,  and  loans  written  off. 


171 


Table  25- -Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1989  1/ 


State 

Feed  : 

Grain  : 

Wheat  : 

Rice 

Cotton  :  Wool  Act 

Conser-  : 
vat ion  : 

2 /  : 

Miscel¬ 

laneous 

3/ 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

8,573 

2,132 

0 

44,156 

6 

28,951 

37,041 

120,859 

Alaska 

23 

0 

0 

0 

4 

1,075 

41 

1,143 

Arizona 

2,527 

1,176 

0 

73,089 

1,179 

2,031 

5,104 

85,106 

Arkansas 

12,708 

11,195 

275,616 

70,957 

72 

16,157 

52,970 

439,675 

California 

10,331 

10,426 

124,811 

148,324 

3,203 

13,684 

61,311 

372,090 

Colorado 

45,314 

22,761 

0 

0 

2,517 

87,262 

25,588 

183,442 

Connecticut 

624 

0 

0 

0 

10 

326 

1,240 

2,200 

Delaware 

2,057 

58 

0 

0 

2 

281 

2,420 

4,818 

Florida 

4,546 

499 

38 

3,166 

6 

9,578 

20,490 

38,323 

Georgia 

27,331 

7,937 

0 

33,427 

9 

33,032 

71,322 

173,058 

Hawaii 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

267 

0 

267 

Idaho 

4,862 

18,721 

0 

0 

1,216 

38,555 

35,735 

99,089 

Illinois 

437,335 

9,610 

0 

0 

247 

50,585 

228,164 

725,941 

Indiana 

204,923 

5,045 

0 

0 

114 

28,084 

95,525 

333,691 

Iowa 

578,178 

248 

0 

0 

784 

154,809 

247,187 

981,206 

Kansas 

166,126 

103,644 

0 

37 

593 

160,417 

157,629 

588,446 

Kentucky 

41,522 

2,493 

0 

0 

61 

28,335 

46,012 

118,423 

Louisiana 

6,608 

2,225 

105,932 

90,576 

12 

8,769 

35,636 

249,758 

Maine 

651 

0 

0 

0 

30 

4,376 

2,086 

7,143 

Maryland 

9,918 

285 

0 

0 

33 

2,042 

11,457 

23,735 

Massachusetts 

256 

0 

0 

0 

13 

478 

3,116 

3,863 

Michigan 

98,903 

6,385 

0 

0 

569 

15,433 

140,681 

261,971 

Minnesota 

257,740 

28,691 

0 

0 

505 

101,057 

211,859 

599,852 

Mississippi 

7,370 

3,801 

53,764 

171,377 

8 

34,187 

54,654 

325,161 

Missouri 

94,961 

14,846 

18,702 

23,238 

357 

101,412 

102,875 

356,391 

Montana 

11,344 

48,614 

0 

0 

2,589 

105,442 

121,393 

289,382 

Nebraska 

377,604 

24,256 

0 

0 

478 

76,744 

63,224 

542,306 

Nevada 

92 

268 

0 

0 

292 

1,167 

4,482 

6,301 

New  Hampshire 

193 

0 

0 

0 

9 

671 

1,429 

2,302 

New  Jersey 

2,870 

177 

0 

0 

11 

633 

17,792 

21,483 

New  Mexico 

10,596 

2,950 

0 

8,802 

3,416 

21,588 

17,323 

64,675 

New  York 

27,879 

1,626 

0 

0 

118 

7,962 

38,440 

76,025 

North  Carolina 

41,464 

2,584 

0 

11,513 

25 

10,590 

27,741 

93,917 

North  Dakota 

38,688 

86,525 

0 

0 

568 

101,104 

247,961 

474,846 

Ohio 

120,695 

7,194 

0 

0 

533 

18,336 

127,245 

274,003 

Oklahoma 

10,968 

48,418 

129 

31,399 

1,840 

53,630 

88,433 

234,817 

Oregon 

2,699 

12,633 

0 

0 

945 

29,968 

14,139 

60,384 

Pennsylvania 

17,083 

434 

0 

0 

193 

9,392 

41,294 

68,396 

Rhode  Island 

1 

0 

0 

0 

2 

65 

22 

90 

South  Carolina 

17,698 

3,487 

0 

16,578 

1 

14,434 

20,498 

72,696 

South  Dakota 

101,989 

28,893 

0 

0 

2,362 

63,749 

143,269 

340,262 

Tennessee 

18,730 

3,405 

69 

40,826 

18 

26,178 

51,823 

141,049 

Texas 

165,919 

38,589 

91,921 

416,170 

50,131 

177,398 

308,585 

1,248,713 

Utah 

1,368 

1,523 

0 

0 

2,069 

12,176 

17,400 

34,536 

Vermont 

525 

3 

0 

0 

34 

1,882 

4,620 

7,064 

Virginia 

14,514 

1,277 

0 

181 

275 

7,358 

14,994 

38,599 

Washington 

8,077 

35,241 

0 

0 

198 

54,270 

33,346 

131,132 

West  Virginia 

1,806 

36 

0 

0 

142 

2,447 

7,168 

11,599 

Wisconsin 

122,410 

961 

0 

0 

176 

39,967 

358,818 

522,332 

Wyoming 

2,197 

1,725 

0 

0 

3,428 

12,330 

14,462 

34,142 

United  States 

3,140,796 

602,997 

670,982 

1,183,816 

81,403 

1,770,664 

3,436,044 

10,886,702 

1/  Includes  both  cash  payments  and  payment- in-kind  (PIK).  2/  Includes  amoint  paid  inder  agriculture  and  conservation  programs 
(Conservation  Bonus,  Conservation  Reserve,  Agriculture  Conservation,  Emergency  Conservation,  and  Great  Plains  Program).  3/  The 
programs  included  Rural  Clean  Water,  Clean  Lakes,  Animal  Waste  Management,  Forest  Incentive,  Water  Bank,  Milk  Indemnity, 

Dairy  Termination,  Emergency  Feed,  Extended  Warehouse  Storage,  Extended  Farm  Storage,  Milk  Diversion,  Disaster  Program  Crops, 
Disaster  Program  Non-Crops,  Colorado  River  Salinity,  Warehouse  Storage  Deduction,  Livestock  Emergency  Assistance,  Interest  Penalty 
Payments,  Disaster,  and  Loan  Deficiency. 


172 


Table  26- - Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1990  1/ 


State 

Feed  : 

Grain  : 

Wheat  : 

Rice  : 

Cotton  :  Wool  Act 

Conser-  : 
vation  : 

2/  : 

Miscel-  : 
laneous  : 
3/  : 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

6,728 

6,655 

0 

17,823 

19 

30,481 

20,520 

82,226 

Alaska 

27 

0 

0 

0 

0 

975 

115 

1,117 

Arizona 

2,214 

5,370 

0 

29,307 

1,488 

1,706 

3,264 

43,349 

Arkansas 

11,901 

45,942 

185,015 

27,544 

109 

16,860 

25,325 

312,695 

California 

6,340 

27,752 

92,150 

57,995 

4,463 

14,452 

49, 181 

252,333 

Colorado 

37,355 

83,713 

0 

0 

3,690 

88,699 

23,266 

236,723 

Connecticut 

465 

0 

0 

0 

12 

446 

1,200 

2,123 

Delaware 

1,613 

339 

0 

0 

3 

298 

950 

3,213 

Florida 

3,599 

1,266 

70 

1,213 

4 

8,887 

22,116 

37,155 

Georgi a 

22,174 

22,781 

0 

14,603 

12 

32,726 

38,297 

130,593 

Hawaii 

0 

0 

0 

0 

9 

510 

0 

519 

Idaho 

1,987 

76,273 

0 

0 

1,546 

39,750 

13,875 

133,431 

Illinois 

367,119 

43,381 

0 

0 

346 

56,892 

38,865 

506,603 

Indiana 

173,796 

22,445 

0 

0 

158 

32,304 

15,467 

244,170 

Iowa 

507,923 

928 

0 

0 

1,206 

171,218 

72,458 

753,733 

Kansas 

160,106 

409,156 

0 

16 

924 

168,149 

96,395 

834,746 

Kentucky 

35,240 

10,673 

0 

0 

87 

28,992 

6,618 

81,610 

Louisiana 

6,113 

6,695 

71,644 

36,937 

14 

9,830 

23,398 

154,631 

Maine 

540 

2 

0 

0 

26 

4,570 

1,844 

6,982 

Maryland 

7,873 

2,123 

0 

0 

43 

2,514 

4,833 

17,386 

Massachusetts 

178 

0 

0 

0 

17 

659 

2,169 

3,023 

Michigan 

84,258 

25,576 

0 

0 

618 

16,996 

41,383 

168,831 

Minnesota 

221,961 

109,121 

0 

0 

756 

105,459 

74,462 

511,759 

Mississippi 

6,092 

14,162 

36,611 

65,325 

8 

37,860 

25,911 

185,96© 

Missouri 

82,564 

63,078 

12,794 

9,103 

695 

103,071 

27,760 

299,065 

Montana 

5,314 

159,482 

0 

0 

3,609 

111,342 

19,852 

299,599 

Nebraska 

351,287 

96,746 

0 

0 

720 

81,036 

94,857 

624,646 

Nevada 

37 

627 

0 

0 

437 

1,012 

3,234 

5,347 

New  Hampshire 

154 

0 

0 

0 

16 

677 

1,009 

1,856 

New  Jersey 

2,531 

555 

0 

0 

11 

670 

11,977 

15,744 

New  Mexico 

9,992 

11,271 

0 

3,128 

3,955 

21,017 

14,477 

63,840 

New  York 

24,122 

5,383 

0 

0 

160 

8,204 

21,435 

59,304 

North  Carolina 

29,562 

9,984 

0 

4,393 

38 

11,918 

17,360 

73,255 

North  Dakota 

22,887 

330,490 

0 

0 

890 

121,070 

70,041 

545,378 

Ohio 

100,718 

34,307 

0 

0 

728 

22,184 

39,069 

197,006 

Oklahoma 

11,096 

219,124 

158 

9,896 

2,251 

55,596 

20,919 

319,040 

Oregon 

1,714 

47,853 

0 

0 

1,378 

29,053 

9,139 

89,137 

Pennsylvania 

13,265 

1,599 

0 

0 

246 

10,624 

15,680 

41,414 

Rhode  Island 

0 

0 

0 

0 

2 

171 

18 

191 

South  Carolina 

14,514 

11,873 

0 

6,881 

1 

19,307 

10,061 

62,637 

South  Dakota 

83,199 

98,811 

0 

0 

3,185 

83,753 

63,903 

332,851 

Tennessee 

16,096 

12,441 

65 

16,047 

27 

26,966 

19,387 

91,029 

Texas 

146,910 

141,235 

66,373 

140,469 

53,669 

180,542 

245,504 

974,702 

Utah 

695 

5,914 

0 

0 

2,852 

11,380 

14,056 

34,897 

Vermont 

502 

2 

0 

0 

43 

2,139 

3,107 

5,793 

Virginia 

11,338 

5,307 

0 

77 

363 

8,003 

7,290 

32,378 

Washington 

4,082 

131,118 

0 

0 

310 

56,716 

13,199 

205,425 

West  Virginia 

1,530 

118 

0 

0 

192 

2,306 

1,903 

6,049 

Wisconsin 

99,779 

3,267 

0 

0 

226 

45,865 

32,106 

181,243 

Wyoming 

1,683 

6,362 

0 

0 

4,633 

12,286 

6,319 

31,283 

United  States 

2,701,173 

2,311,300 

464,880 

440,757 

96,195 

1,898,141 

1,385,584 

9,298,030 

1/  Includes  both  cash  payments  and  payment- in-kind  (PIK).  2/  Includes  amouit  paid  inder  agriculture  and  conservation  programs 
(Conservation  Bonus,  Conservation  Reserve,  Agriculture  Conservation,  Emergency  Conservation,  and  Great  Plains  Program).  3/  The 
programs  included  Rural  Clean  Water,  Clean  Lakes,  Animal  Waste  Management,  Forest  Incentive,  Water  Bank,  Milk  Indemnity, 

Dairy  Termination,  Emergency  Feed,  Extended  Warehouse  Storage,  Extended  Farm  Storage,  Milk  Diversion,  Disaster  Program  Crops, 
Disaster  Program  Non-Crops,  Colorado  River  Salinity,  Livestock  Emergency  Assistance,  Interest  Penalty  Payments,  Disaster,  Loan 
Deficiency,  and  Naval  Stores. 


173 


Table  27- -Government  payments,  by  program  and  State,  1991  1/ 


State 

Feed  : 

Grain  : 

Wheat  : 

Rice  : 

Cot  ten  : 

Wool  Act  : 

Conser-  : 
vat ion  : 

2/  : 

Miscel-  : 
laneous  : 
3/  : 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

6,070 

5,348 

0 

16,231 

57 

29,094 

9,550 

66,350 

Alaska 

78 

0 

0 

0 

1 

1,155 

51 

1,285 

Arizona 

2,364 

4,305 

0 

26,225 

1,883 

1,632 

4,084 

40,493 

Arkansas 

8,740 

40,880 

220,662 

23,669 

147 

17,423 

41,229 

352,750 

California 

8,942 

32,741 

102,428 

48,991 

8,968 

13,218 

45,537 

260,825 

Colorado 

36,302 

83,243 

0 

0 

6,360 

85,241 

5,956 

217,102 

Connecticut 

437 

0 

0 

0 

26 

579 

309 

1,351 

Delaware 

1,814 

329 

0 

0 

3 

418 

112 

2,676 

Florida 

3,150 

1,104 

193 

1,172 

5 

8,645 

26,517 

40,786 

Georgia 

19,522 

18,443 

0 

13,611 

6 

31,716 

14,377 

97,675 

Hawaii 

0 

0 

0 

0 

19 

815 

72 

906 

Idaho 

14,924 

78,399 

0 

0 

3,497 

39,770 

4,660 

141,250 

Illinois 

346,543 

36,533 

0 

0 

547 

56,030 

1,754 

441,407 

Indiana 

159,434 

16,613 

0 

0 

234 

32,062 

1,712 

210,055 

Iowa 

469,701 

656 

0 

0 

2,059 

168,889 

3,650 

644,955 

Kansas 

137,135 

394,034 

0 

21 

1,730 

161,048 

3,927 

697,895 

Kentucky 

33,409 

9,030 

0 

0 

131 

28,998 

1,848 

73,416 

Louisiana 

5,040 

6,036 

87,818 

33,017 

14 

9,450 

33,230 

174,605 

Maine 

592 

3 

0 

0 

77 

4,762 

632 

6,066 

Maryland 

8,297 

1,680 

0 

0 

62 

2,464 

2,839 

15,342 

Massachusetts 

165 

0 

0 

0 

38 

530 

761 

1,494 

Michigan 

79,344 

20,238 

0 

0 

667 

17,633 

5,809 

123,691 

Minnesota 

221,988 

93,583 

0 

0 

1,391 

103,525 

15,332 

435,819 

Mississippi 

5,178 

12,726 

43,455 

57,674 

10 

37,046 

20,209 

176,298 

Missouri 

75,842 

51,567 

15,830 

7,352 

852 

104,526 

12,646 

268,615 

Montana 

33,557 

163,465 

0 

0 

8,425 

108,995 

5,691 

320,133 

Nebraska 

318,372 

87,731 

0 

0 

1,163 

80,915 

2,478 

490,659 

Nevada 

191 

637 

0 

0 

965 

734 

3,152 

5,679 

New  Hampshire 

141 

0 

0 

0 

29 

790 

517 

1,477 

New  Jersey 

2,415 

556 

0 

0 

14 

598 

468 

4,051 

New  Mexico 

9,242 

11,158 

0 

2,760 

7,369 

21,352 

6,566 

58,447 

New  York 

23,847 

4,638 

0 

0 

236 

8,225 

4,296 

41,242 

North  Carolina 

26,548 

7,385 

0 

3,893 

55 

10,774 

4,182 

52,837 

North  Dakota 

83,509 

299,967 

0 

0 

1,720 

116,560 

32,097 

533,853 

Ohio 

100,348 

26,899 

0 

0 

939 

23,724 

4,798 

156,708 

Oklahoma 

9,269 

208,695 

175 

10,193 

2,910 

54,739 

4,941 

290,922 

Oregon 

4,115 

47,485 

0 

0 

2,261 

29,884 

5,360 

89,105 

Pennsylvania 

13,822 

1,413 

0 

0 

374 

10,032 

8,723 

34,364 

Rhode  Island 

1 

0 

0 

0 

6 

91 

12 

110 

South  Carolina 

13,430 

9,812 

0 

6,474 

0 

14,971 

4,677 

49,364 

South  Dakota 

96,842 

92,281 

0 

0 

6,831 

77,302 

12,981 

286,237 

Tennessee 

14,854 

10,589 

91 

14,561 

45 

26,778 

3,413 

70,331 

Texas 

125,392 

136,112 

79,377 

140,985 

73,554 

178,157 

44,348 

777,925 

Utah 

2,473 

7,021 

0 

0 

5,648 

10,959 

7,086 

33,197 

Vermont 

468 

3 

0 

0 

89 

1,650 

1,129 

3,339 

Virginia 

11,286 

3,995 

0 

74 

609 

7,369 

3,283 

26,616 

Washington 

17,317 

128,799 

0 

0 

613 

55,273 

4,082 

206,084 

West  Virginia 

1,429 

104 

0 

0 

291 

2,045 

1,552 

5,421 

Wisconsin 

92,658 

2,639 

0 

0 

385 

47,177 

7,091 

149,950 

Wyoming 

2,116 

6,797 

0 

0 

10,204 

12,410 

1,714 

33,241 

United  States 

2,648,653 

2,165,672 

550,029 

406,903 

153,519 

1,858,183 

431,440 

8,214,399 

1/  Includes  both  cash  payments  and  payment- in-kind  (PIK).  2/ 

Includes  amount  paid  under  agriculture  and  conservation  programs 

(Conservation  Reserve,  Agriculture  Conservation,  Emergency  Conservation,  and  Great  Plains  Program).  3/  The  programs  included 
Rural  Clean  Water,  Clean  Lakes,  Forest  Incentive,  Water  Bank,  Milk  Indemnity,  Dairy  Termination,  Emergency  Feed,  Extended 
Warehouse  Storage,  Extended  Farm  Storage,  Milk  Diversion,  Colorado  River  Salinity,  Livestock  Emergency  Assistance,  Interest 
Penalty  Payments,  Disaster,  Loan  Deficiency,  and  Market  Gains. 


174 


Table  28- -Government  payments,  b/  program  State,  1992  1/ 


State 

Feed  : 

Grain  : 

Wheat  : 

Rice  : 

Cotton  :  Wool 

Act  : 

Conser-  : 
vat ion  : 

2/  : 

Miscel-  : 
laneous  : 
3/  : 

Total 

1,000  dollars 

Alabama 

4,086 

4,165 

0 

28,731 

101 

29,144 

52,905 

119,132 

Alaska 

118 

0 

0 

0 

10 

1,095 

471 

1,604 

Arizona 

2,330 

4,813 

0 

46,592 

2,074 

1,481 

18,290 

75,580 

Arkansas 

6,960 

25,758 

198,861 

45,173 

303 

17,658 

115,304 

410,026 

California 

10,643 

23,134 

103,570 

91,232 

10,794 

13,479 

177,530 

430,382 

Colorado 

36,381 

54,185 

0 

0 

7,625 

84,998 

20,045 

203,234 

Connecticut 

438 

0 

0 

0 

41 

582 

1,156 

2,217 

Delaware 

1,819 

237 

0 

0 

7 

537 

376 

2,976 

Florida 

2,327 

560 

273 

2,457 

15 

14,569 

32,884 

53,085 

Georgia 

14,791 

13,197 

0 

25,525 

41 

32,954 

95,792 

182,300 

Hawaii 

0 

0 

0 

0 

15 

731 

1,076 

1,822 

Idaho 

16,101 

50,781 

0 

0 

4,752 

42,514 

23,247 

137,395 

Illinois 

345,505 

23,974 

0 

0 

670 

62,406 

48,0% 

480,651 

Indiana 

157,033 

10,982 

0 

0 

336 

35,245 

28,922 

232,518 

Iowa 

449,568 

319 

0 

0 

2,816 

175,822 

33,753 

662,278 

Kansas 

123,952 

249,608 

0 

39 

2,272 

157,719 

58,555 

592,145 

Kentucky 

28,989 

6,209 

0 

0 

192 

29,615 

7,120 

72,125 

Louisiana 

4,070 

4,339 

78,784 

60,908 

27 

10,389 

112,318 

270,835 

Maine 

503 

1 

0 

0 

97 

4,635 

5,017 

10,253 

Maryland 

7,549 

1,054 

0 

0 

130 

2,864 

4,470 

16,067 

Massachusetts 

145 

0 

0 

0 

72 

836 

3,708 

4,761 

Michigan 

74,688 

14,569 

0 

0 

890 

20,733 

31,629 

142,509 

Minnesota 

208,034 

63,480 

0 

0 

2,180 

106,692 

41,637 

422,023 

Mississippi 

3,568 

6,649 

40,763 

103,746 

9 

39,6% 

85,473 

279,904 

Missouri 

67,963 

31,481 

15,027 

14,174 

1,306 

110,132 

53,562 

293,645 

Montana 

34,840 

105,910 

0 

0 

11,541 

108,749 

37,733 

298,773 

Nebraska 

305,462 

53,412 

0 

0 

1,620 

83,662 

34,573 

478,729 

Nevada 

237 

603 

0 

0 

1,118 

837 

8,449 

11,244 

New  Harrpshire 

125 

0 

0 

0 

57 

798 

570 

1,550 

New  Jersey 

2,020 

360 

0 

0 

44 

671 

7,600 

10,695 

New  Mexico 

7,854 

7,372 

0 

4,224 

8,173 

21,106 

11,538 

60,267 

New  York 

21,096 

3,018 

0 

0 

407 

7,487 

15,864 

47,872 

North  Carolina 

21,048 

5,400 

0 

9,964 

85 

10,809 

27,499 

74,805 

North  Dakota 

75,561 

202,923 

0 

0 

2,953 

109,955 

51,784 

443,156 

Ohio 

96,457 

19,087 

0 

0 

1,331 

28,335 

20,912 

166,122 

Oklahoma 

8,063 

126,992 

187 

18,202 

2,648 

54,841 

37,389 

248,322 

Oregon 

4,677 

30,395 

0 

0 

3,919 

29,882 

18,601 

87,474 

Pennsylvania 

13,335 

968 

0 

0 

568 

10,008 

23,886 

48,765 

Rhode  Island 

1 

0 

0 

0 

5 

121 

181 

308 

South  Carolina 

10,892 

6,792 

0 

11,717 

5 

13,859 

29,323 

72,588 

South  Dakota 

88,340 

58,450 

0 

0 

10,348 

73,891 

40,870 

271,899 

Tennessee 

12,221 

6,728 

92 

28,911 

92 

27,603 

40,219 

115,866 

Texas 

107,439 

89,920 

74,743 

259,358 

81,655 

179,671 

369,253 

1,162,039 

Utah 

2,344 

4,016 

0 

0 

7,820 

11,212 

10,580 

35,972 

Vermont 

413 

1 

0 

0 

168 

2,057 

2,911 

5,550 

Virginia 

9,525 

2,971 

0 

224 

755 

7,331 

8,266 

29,072 

Washington 

17,636 

82,019 

0 

0 

799 

56,594 

31,695 

188,743 

West  Virginia 

1,254 

75 

0 

0 

408 

2,100 

3,025 

6,862 

Wisconsin 

88,977 

1,742 

0 

0 

541 

48,774 

25,993 

166,027 

Wyoming 

1,886 

4,039 

0 

0 

14,267 

12,542 

3,929 

36,663 

United  States 

2,499,273 

1,402,688 

512,300 

751,177 

188,082 

1,899,421 

1,915,979 

9,168,920 

1/  Includes  both  cash  payments  and  payment- in-kind  (PIK).  2/  Includes  amount  paid  under  agriculture  and  conservation  programs 
(Conservation  Reserve,  Agriculture  Conservation,  Emergency  Conservation,  and  Great  Plains  Program).  3/  The  programs  included 
Rural  Clean  Water,  Forest  Incentive,  Water  Bank,  Dairy  Indemnity,  Dairy  Termination,  Extended  Warehouse  Storage,  Extend  Farm  Storage, 
Colorado  River  Salinity,  Livestock  Emergency  Assistance,  Interest  Penalty  Payments,  Disaster,  Loan  Deficiency,  Market  Gains,  Naval 
Stores  Conservation,  Milk  Marketing  Fee,  Animal  Waste  Management,  and  Interest  on  CCC-6S. 


175 


Table  29--Farm  production  expenses  (excluding  operator  households),  by  State,  1988-92 


State 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

Alabama 

2,099.6 

2,222.8 

Million  dollars 

2,313.0 

2,245.1 

2,178.5 

Alaska 

24.5 

25.2 

25.8 

25.1 

25.2 

Arizona 

1,349.2 

1,324.4 

1,391.0 

1,344.8 

1,344.3 

Arkansas 

3,451.5 

3,843.6 

4,029.2 

4,221.1 

3,971.3 

California 

11,840.2 

13,084.2 

14,146.7 

14,795.1 

14,529.4 

Colorado 

3,584.5 

3,494.9 

3,655.5 

3,449.6 

3,439.4 

Connecticut 

282.9 

302.5 

330.0 

320.6 

323.9 

Delaware 

504.2 

551.5 

550.7 

558.8 

555.6 

Florida 

3,276.0 

3,547.7 

3,621.9 

3,558.0 

3,540.4 

Georgia 

2,973.4 

3,136.9 

3,094.5 

3,035.5 

2,973.6 

Hawai i 

475.7 

502.5 

552.0 

551.0 

543.8 

Idaho 

2,037.6 

2,122.0 

2,165.9 

2,062.5 

2,059.5 

Illinois 

6,840.0 

7,425.3 

7,384.6 

7,424.2 

7,593.1 

Indiana 

4,237.8 

4,454.6 

4,616.6 

4,541.1 

4,675.6 

Iowa 

8,836.6 

9,153.6 

9,494.2 

9,484.7 

9,637.6 

Kansas 

6,324.8 

6,541.4 

6,818.7 

6,588.6 

6,585.3 

Kentucky 

2,284.7 

2,359.1 

2,471.8 

2,522.1 

2,512.2 

Louisiana 

1,549.2 

1,671.2 

1,792.1 

1,821.4 

1,745.7 

Maine 

353.0 

376.2 

399.5 

398.2 

396.8 

Maryland 

1,059.0 

1,135.5 

1,161.9 

1,180.0 

1,179.1 

Massachusetts 

294.6 

315.7 

340.9 

340.4 

336.3 

Michigan 

2,665.7 

2,832.2 

3,005.4 

3,143.3 

3,110.5 

Minnesota 

5,636.8 

5,960.1 

6,338.2 

6,498.3 

6,379.4 

Mississippi 

2,105.3 

2,310.2 

2,462.5 

2,574.5 

2,489.8 

Missouri 

3,715.6 

3,884.0 

3,922.6 

4,025.9 

4,154.6 

Montana 

1,514.3 

1,620.9 

1,641.7 

1,593.7 

1,583.9 

Nebraska 

7,342.5 

7,628.7 

7,693.8 

7,328.0 

7,233.9 

Nevada 

195.7 

204.3 

228.7 

214.2 

206.6 

New  Hampshire 

112.9 

123.1 

130.3 

127.1 

126.6 

New  Jersey 

469.8 

507.3 

537.6 

537.1 

526.8 

New  Mexico 

1,168.7 

1,204.5 

1,213.5 

1,197.1 

1,164.4 

New  York 

2,217.9 

2,392.2 

2,520.0 

2,476.6 

2,477.7 

North  Carolina 

3,380.6 

3,442.0 

3,481.0 

3,434.5 

3,559.2 

North  Dakota 

2,441.0 

2,505.8 

2,636.5 

2,635.4 

2,709.0 

Ohio 

3,501.6 

3,652.3 

3,837.3 

3,779.2 

3,803.5 

Oklahoma 

3,213.8 

3,264.5 

3,313.5 

3,438.2 

3,189.4 

Oregon 

1,831.0 

2,025.8 

2,169.4 

2,240.5 

2,240.6 

Pennsylvania 

2,771.4 

3,076.2 

3,171.7 

3,139.0 

3,092.1 

Rhode  Island 

38.8 

41.8 

43.8 

41.7 

41.7 

South  Carolina 

958.7 

1,021.8 

1,024.6 

1,033.0 

997.9 

South  Dakota 

2,449.4 

2,510.0 

2,569.8 

2,531.6 

2,515.4 

Tennessee 

1,945.9 

1,901.7 

1,902.2 

1,879.6 

1,910.8 

Texas 

10,345.1 

10,293.3 

10,959.5 

11,023.6 

10,563.6 

Utah 

594.7 

602.6 

620.2 

588.0 

593.0 

Vermont 

335.7 

368.0 

392.2 

383.9 

381.8 

Virginia 

1,719.9 

1,752.7 

1,776.1 

1,760.0 

1,797.5 

Washington 

2,862.8 

3,090.6 

3,364.7 

3,587.0 

3,613.4 

West  Virginia 

332.1 

344.8 

354.0 

345.4 

341.7 

Wisconsin 

4,416.9 

4,804.1 

5,017.0 

5,069.4 

5,028.1 

Wyoming 

717.5 

705.1 

690.8 

787.5 

670.4 

United  States 

133,482.2 

140,413.6 

146,135.1 

146,644.9 

145,427.7 

176 


Table  30--Farm  business  balance  sheet.  United  States,  December  31,  1988-92  1/ 


Item 

1988 

1989 

1990 

1991  : 

1992 

EXCLUDES  OPERATOR  HOUSEHOLDS 

Thousands 

Farms 

2,197 

2, 

171 

2,140 

2,105 

2,094 

Bi llion  dollars 

Farm  assets 

801.1 

829.7 

848.3 

842.2 

861. 

Real  estate 

595.5 

615.7 

628.2 

623.2 

633. 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

62.2 

66.2 

70.9 

68.1 

71. 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/  : 

81.2 

85.1 

85.4 

85.8 

85. 

Crops  3/ 

23.3 

23.4 

22.8 

22.0 

24. 

Purchased  inputs 

3.5 

2.6 

2.8 

2.6 

3. 

Financial 

35.4 

36.8 

38.3 

40.6 

43. 

Farm  debt 

139.4 

137.2 

137.4 

138.8 

138. 

Real  estate 

77.6 

75.4 

74.1 

74.5 

75. 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

61.7 

61.9 

63.2 

64.3 

63. 

Equity 

661.7 

692.4 

710.9 

703.5 

722. 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

21.1 

19.8 

19.3 

19.7 

19. 

Debt/assets 

17.4 

16.5 

16.2 

16.5 

16. 

1/  Excludes  horses,  mules. 

and  broilers.  2/  Includes  only 

farm  share 

value  for  trucks 

and  autos.  3/  All 

non- CCC 

crops  held  on  farms  plus  the 

value  above  loan  rate  for 

crops 

held  under 

CCC.  4/  Excludes  debt  for  nonfarm 

purposes. 

5 

1 

3 

6 

,1 

9 

,4 

,6 

,0 

.6 

.9 

,2 

.1 


177 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


ALABAMA 

Number 

Farms 

48,000 

47, 000 

47,000 

46,000 

46,000 

Mi l lion  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

9,795.9 

10,337.9 

9,764.0 

9,907.0 

10,072.9 

Real  estate 

7,092.6 

7,499.4 

6,752.6 

6,886.2 

7,007.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

909.4 

955.5 

1,073.5 

1,033.3 

974.4 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,120.0 

1,163.6 

1,183.4 

1,182.8 

1,188.2 

Crops  3/ 

112.0 

122.1 

120.3 

114.7 

121.2 

Purchased  inputs 

18.1 

13.7 

14.5 

14.1 

35.6 

F i nanc i a l 

543.7 

583.6 

619.6 

675.7 

745.9 

Farm  debt 

1,485.1 

1,443.7 

1,371.7 

1,400.7 

1,466.2 

Real  estate 

810.0 

785.4 

681.3 

703.0 

693.7 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

675.1 

658.2 

690.4 

697.7 

772.5 

Equity 

8,310.9 

8,894.2 

8,392.2 

8,506.3 

8,606.8 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

17.9 

16.2 

16.3 

16.5 

17.0 

Debt/assets 

15.2 

14.0 

14.0 

14.1 

14.6 

ALASKA 

Nunber 

Farms 

620 

600 

580 

560 

540 

Mi l lion  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

548.9 

592.3 

644.0 

581.5 

596.6 

Real  estate 

290.5 

299.8 

309.4 

300.3 

291.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

6.0 

5.5 

5.4 

5.3 

5.4 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

21.8 

22.4 

22.0 

21.7 

21.0 

Crops  3/ 

.5 

.0 

.0 

.0 

.0 

Purchased  inputs 

.4 

.2 

.0 

.2 

.4 

F i nanc i a l 

229.7 

264.4 

307.1 

254.0 

278.0 

Farm  debt 

31.3 

31.2 

25.6 

23.4 

47.6 

Real  estate 

20.8 

22.0 

19.4 

15.5 

11.3 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

10.5 

9.2 

6.1 

7.9 

36.3 

Equity 

517.6 

561.1 

618.4 

558.1 

549.0 

Ratio 

Debt/equi ty 

6.0 

5.6 

4.1 

4.2 

8.7 

Debt/assets 

5.7 

5.3 

4.0 

4.0 

8.0 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 

continued 

178 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

ARIZONA 

Farms 

8,100 

8,100 

Nunber 

7,800 

8,000 

Farm  assets 

10,329.4 

9,894.1 

Million  dollars 

10,697.5 

11,223.3 

Real  estate 

9,093.5 

8,673.3 

9,448.6 

9,963.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

533.3 

518.4 

551.7 

560.9 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

407.6 

432.4 

423.5 

443.6 

Crops  3/ 

46.7 

43.0 

39.6 

25.3 

Purchased  inputs 

42.6 

31.5 

30.8 

25.0 

Financial 

205.8 

195.4 

203.2 

205.4 

Farm  debt 

1,571.1 

1,564.0 

1,383.2 

1,286.1 

Real  estate 

653.4 

646.6 

578.0 

552.1 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

917.7 

917.3 

805.2 

734.1 

Equi ty 

8,758.2 

8,330.1 

9,314.3 

9,937.1 

Debt/equity 

17.9 

18.8 

Ratio 

14.8 

12.9 

Debt/assets 

15.2 

15.8 

12.9 

11.5 

ARKANSAS 

Farms 

49,000 

48,000 

Nunber 

47,000 

46,000 

Farm  assets 

14,403.9 

14,374.1 

Mi l l ion  dol lars 

14,703.5 

14,058.0 

Real  estate 

10,951.8 

10,758.6 

10,967.0 

10,154.5 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

953.2 

995.7 

1,101.4 

1,106.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,527.3 

1,587.4 

1,580.8 

1,580.0 

Crops  3/ 

161.2 

170.7 

126.6 

207.2 

Purchased  inputs 

38.7 

28.6 

33.3 

19.7 

Financial 

771.7 

833.1 

894.4 

990.1 

Farm  debt 

2,854.1 

2,838.8 

3,014.5 

3,104.1 

Real  estate 

1,572.5 

1,546.4 

1,642.6 

1,696.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,281.6 

1,292.4 

1,371.9 

1,407.3 

Equity 

11,549.8 

11,535.3 

11,689.0 

10,953.9 

Debt/equity 

24.7 

24.6 

Ratio 

25.8 

28.3 

Debt/assets 

19.8 

19.7 

20.5 

22.1 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


8,000 


11,315.7 

10,016.1 

570.9 

445.6 

29.9 

37.2 

216.0 

1,172.4 

505.3 

667.1 

10,143.4 


11.6 

10.4 


46,000 


14.691.3 

10.613.4 
1,127.6 

1.587.1 
282.5 

26.8 

1,054.0 

3.106.2 
1,766.0 

1.340.2 

11,585.1 


26.8 

21.1 


conti nued-- 


179 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

CALIFORNIA 

Nunber 

Farms 

84,000 

84,000 

85,000 

83,000 

Mi l lion  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

67,426.4 

69,798.2 

72,149.8 

70,231.6 

Real  estate 

57,234.4 

59,433.4 

61,674.2 

59,709.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

3,348.2 

3,553.3 

3,541.7 

3,470.3 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

3,735.0 

3,963.0 

4,078.3 

4,067.0 

Crops  3/ 

391.4 

324.6 

302.9 

348.4 

Purchased  inputs 

300.0 

175.5 

159.4 

141.2 

Financial 

2,417.3 

2,348.5 

2,393.3 

2,494.8 

Farm  debt 

12,375.9 

12,468.8 

13,092.8 

13,047.0 

Real  estate 

6,983.3 

7,153.5 

7,485.7 

7,513.7 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

5,392.6 

5,315.3 

5,607.0 

5,533.3 

Equity 

55,050.5 

57,329.4 

59,057.0 

57,184.6 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

22.5 

21.7 

22.2 

22.8 

Debt/assets 

18.4 

17.9 

18.1 

18.6 

COLORADO 

Nunber 

Farms 

27,300 

27,000 

26,500 

26,000 

Million  dollars 

Farm  assets 

15,222.4 

15,193.6 

16,833.2 

15,276.0 

Real  estate 

10,950.5 

10,813.5 

12,374.0 

10,853.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,807.4 

1,882.2 

2,045.1 

1,942.4 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,221.6 

1,281.9 

1,279.5 

1,282.0 

Crops  3/ 

487.4 

458.7 

362.5 

384.0 

Purchased  inputs 

126.3 

104.2 

122.1 

62.5 

Financial 

629.1 

653.1 

650.0 

751.1 

Farm  debt 

2,980.7 

2,947.1 

2,859.6 

2,829.7 

Real  estate 

1,639.0 

1,550.4 

1,473.2 

1,509.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,341.7 

1,396.7 

1,386.4 

1,319.9 

Equity 

12,241.7 

12,246.6 

13,973.6 

12,446.2 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

24.3 

24.1 

20.5 

22.7 

Debt/assets 

19.6 

19.4 

17.0 

18.5 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


80,000 


68,110.0 

57,321.3 

3,586.0 

3.937.6 

346.4 
232.1 

2.686.7 

13,063.3 

7,571.4 

5,491.9 

55,046.7 


23.7 

19.2 


25,500 


15.823.7 

11.258.8 
2,056.7 
1,263.1 

336.5 
75.2 

833.5 

2,785.0 

1,484.4 

1,300.6 

13,038.7 


21.4 

17.6 


cont i nued- - 


180 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

CONNECTICUT 

Farms 

4,000 

4,000 

Number 

3,900 

3,900 

4,000 

Farm  assets 

3,174.6 

3,260.5 

Million  dollars 

2,945.8 

2,821.9 

2,947.0 

Real  estate 

2,873.1 

2,941.8 

2,622.0 

2,494.7 

2,602.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

62.4 

67.9 

65.0 

65.8 

72.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

133.7 

141.8 

140.6 

143.6 

148.0 

Crops  3/ 

24.9 

23.1 

31.5 

22.7 

18.5 

Purchased  inputs 

4.7 

5.3 

5.2 

8.3 

9.0 

Financial 

75.8 

80.6 

81.5 

86.8 

96.6 

Farm  debt 

218.7 

204.2 

218.8 

202.7 

198.9 

Real  estate 

114.6 

96.7 

98.4 

90.3 

87.0 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

104.1 

107.5 

120.5 

112.4 

111.9 

Equi ty 

2,955.9 

3,056.3 

2,727.0 

2,619.2 

2,748.1 

Debt/equity 

7.4 

6.7 

Ratio 

8.0 

7.7 

7.2 

Debt/assets 

6.9 

6.3 

7.4 

7.2 

6.7 

DELAWARE 

Farms 

3,000 

3,000 

Number 

2,900 

2,900 

2,700 

Farm  assets 

1,325.7 

1,462.1 

Million  dollars 

1,435.6 

1,369.3 

1,472.2 

Real  estate 

1,051.9 

1,182.0 

1,147.5 

1,079.1 

1,183.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

27.6 

29.0 

29.4 

29.8 

30.7 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

144.8 

153.7 

151.1 

154.3 

144.3 

Crops  3/ 

34.9 

29.7 

35.9 

26.6 

25.7 

Purchased  inputs 

2.1 

1.4 

2.2 

2.3 

3.4 

Financial 

64.4 

66.3 

69.6 

77.3 

84.9 

Farm  debt 

265.6 

263.6 

315.3 

300.3 

327.4 

Real  estate 

145.0 

141.2 

154.0 

148.2 

173.1 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

120.6 

122.5 

161.3 

152.1 

154.4 

Equity 

1,060.1 

1,198.5 

1,120.3 

1,069.0 

1,144.8 

Debt/equity 

25.1 

22.0 

Ratio 

28.1 

28.1 

28.6 

Debt/assets 

20.0 

18.0 

22.0 

21.9 

22.2 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


181 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

FLORIDA 

Nunber 

Farms 

41,000 

41,000 

41,000 

40,000 

Mi  1 1 ion  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

23,779.3 

25,801.5 

25,887.1 

24,305.0 

Real  estate 

20,362.8 

22,165.9 

22,084.4 

20,459.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,090.1 

1,103.5 

1,185.3 

1,225.1 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,288.8 

1,367.5 

1,390.7 

1,385.6 

Crops  3/ 

46.6 

45.4 

41.1 

40.1 

Purchased  inputs 

41.2 

18.1 

37.4 

40.6 

Financial 

949.8 

1,101.1 

1,148.1 

1,154.3 

Farm  debt 

3,547.1 

3,566.4 

3,630.4 

3,545.5 

Real  estate 

2,560.1 

2,648.6 

2,662.5 

2,585.5 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

987.0 

917.8 

967.9 

960.0 

Equi ty 

20,232.2 

22,235.1 

22,256.7 

20,759.5 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

17.5 

16.0 

16.3 

17.1 

Debt/assets 

14.9 

13.8 

14.0 

14.6 

GEORGIA 

Number 

Farms 

49,000 

48,000 

48,000 

46,000 

Mi  llion  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

14,670.5 

15,021.0 

14,959.9 

13,638.6 

Real  estate 

10,813.9 

10,986.7 

10,739.4 

9,319.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

855.3 

892.4 

939.7 

952.2 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,437.5 

1,494.1 

1,519.5 

1,487.2 

Crops  3/ 

158.5 

183.1 

151.6 

166.8 

Purchased  inputs 

36.8 

25.4 

27.5 

30.4 

Financial 

1,368.5 

1,439.3 

1,582.2 

1,682.4 

Farm  debt 

3,068.8 

2,817.9 

2,739.4 

2,752.0 

Real  estate 

1,687.4 

1,560.5 

1,580.8 

1,590.2 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,381.4 

1,257.4 

1,158.6 

1,161.8 

Equi ty 

11,601.7 

12,203.1 

12,220.5 

10,886.6 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

26.5 

23.1 

22.4 

25.3 

Debt/assets 

20.9 

18.8 

18.3 

20.2 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


39,000 


24,458.0 

20.511.6 

1,207.5 

1,357.1 

63.2 

59.3 

1.259.4 

3.622.4 

2.613.5 
1,008.9 

20.835.7 


17.4 

14.8 


46,000 


14,338.1 

9,868.1 

956.6 

1,493.9 

157.9 

34.4 

1,827.3 

2.778.7 
1,638.0 

1.140.7 

11,559.5 


24.0 

19.4 


continued-- 


182 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

HAUAI I 

Farms 

4,650 

4,650 

Nunber 

4,600 

4,600 

4,500 

Farm  assets 

3,149.0 

3,409.4 

Million  dollars 

3,547.9 

3,496.2 

3,474.6 

Real  estate 

2,816.8 

2,967.9 

3,088.3 

3,055.4 

3,029.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

91.6 

87.1 

106.1 

94.8 

93.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

173.1 

183.7 

184.8 

188.7 

185.4 

Crops  3/ 

.0 

.0 

.0 

.0 

.0 

Purchased  inputs 

4.4 

2.1 

.3 

2.1 

6.1 

Financial 

63.2 

168.8 

168.4 

155.1 

160.5 

Farm  debt 

326.6 

329.9 

349.0 

287.7 

294.6 

Real  estate 

228.5 

211.5 

222.7 

184.5 

174.6 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

98.1 

118.3 

126.3 

103.2 

120.0 

Equity 

2,822.5 

3,079.5 

3,198.9 

3,208.5 

3,180.0 

Debt/equity 

11.6 

10.7 

Ratio 

10.9 

9.0 

9.3 

Debt/assets 

10.4 

9.7 

9.8 

8.2 

8.5 

IDAHO 

Farms 

22,500 

22,100 

Number 

21,800 

21,400 

21,000 

Farm  assets 

10,500.7 

11,526.4 

Million  dol lars 

11,648.2 

11,581.6 

11,788.2 

Real  estate 

7,127.6 

8,084.2 

8,154.4 

8,266.6 

8,292.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,020.8 

1,095.8 

1,208.7 

1,159.1 

1,151.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,124.5 

1,171.9 

1,175.7 

1,178.6 

1,161.8 

Crops  3/ 

837.7 

777.0 

696.9 

555.0 

711.4 

Purchased  inputs 

64.4 

44.8 

47.1 

35.4 

58.0 

Financial 

325.7 

352.6 

365.4 

386.9 

412.6 

Farm  debt 

2,362.8 

2,266.9 

2,366.8 

2,463.0 

2,467.4 

Real  estate 

1,339.1 

1,238.3 

1,221.3 

1,259.8 

1,277.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,023.7 

1,028.7 

1,145.5 

1,203.2 

1,189.5 

Equity 

8,137.9 

9,259.4 

9,281.5 

9,118.6 

9,320.8 

Debt/equity 

29.0 

24.5 

Ratio 

25.5 

27.0 

26.5 

Debt/assets 

22.5 

19.7 

20.3 

21.3 

20.9 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


183 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

ILLINOIS 

Farms 

88,000 

86,000 

Number 

83,000 

82,000 

81,000 

Farm  assets 

46,219.5 

47,476.2 

Million  dollars 

48,652.6 

50,242.8 

50,817.5 

Real  estate 

36,208.0 

36,842.2 

38,164.5 

39,873.0 

39,778.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,564.8 

1,692.7 

1,799.8 

1,648.1 

1,699.1 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

4,843.9 

5,022.7 

4,929.9 

4,974.0 

4,935.5 

Crops  3/ 

1,830.4 

2,219.0 

2,009.8 

1,901.6 

2,360.0 

Purchased  inputs 

211.8 

152.2 

162.5 

174.1 

293.8 

Financial 

1,560.5 

1,547.5 

1,586.0 

1,671.9 

1,750.3 

Farm  debt 

7,279.3 

7,150.5 

7,093.0 

7,290.9 

7,362.9 

Real  estate 

4,507.8 

4,336.4 

4,189.7 

4,277.2 

4,396.3 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

2,771.4 

2,814.1 

2,903.3 

3,013.7 

2,966.6 

Equi ty 

38,940.2 

40,325.7 

41,559.6 

42,951.9 

43,454.6 

Debt/equi ty 

18.7 

17.7 

Ratio 

17.1 

17.0 

16.9 

Debt/assets 

15.7 

15.1 

14.6 

14.5 

14.5 

INDIANA 

Farms 

74,000 

71,000 

Number 

68,000 

65,000 

65,000 

Farm  assets 

23,930.7 

24,838.0 

Mi  llion  dollars 

25,248.6 

25,015.6 

26,446.6 

Real  estate 

17,512.3 

18,057.1 

18,522.7 

18,517.1 

19,409.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,016.0 

1,110.1 

1,175.0 

1,096.1 

1,099.3 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

2,974.8 

3,028.4 

2,949.7 

2,879.5 

2,892.5 

Crops  3/ 

1,047.2 

1,227.1 

1,188.6 

940.4 

1,310.0 

Purchased  inputs 

161.7 

104.8 

88.5 

86.5 

132.0 

Financial 

1,218.7 

1,310.4 

1,324.2 

1,495.9 

1,603.1 

Farm  debt 

4,678.2 

4,610.0 

4,470.2 

4,546.9 

4,520.5 

Real  estate 

3,033.5 

2,945.6 

2,813.0 

2,889.2 

2,939.2 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,644.7 

1,664.3 

1,657.2 

1,657.7 

1,581.3 

Equi ty 

19,252.5 

20,228.1 

20,778.4 

20,468.7 

21,926.2 

Debt/equi ty 

24.3 

22.8 

Ratio 

21.5 

22.2 

20.6 

Debt/assets 

19.5 

18.6 

17.7 

18.2 

17.1 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


184 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 


IOWA 

Farms 


Farm  assets 
Real  estate 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 
Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 
Crops  3/ 

Purchased  inputs 
Financial 

Farm  debt 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate  A/ 

Equi ty 


Debt/equity 

Debt/assets 


KANSAS 

Farms 


Farm  assets 
Real  estate 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 
Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 
Crops  3/ 

Purchased  inputs 
Financial 

Farm  debt 
Real  estate 
Nonreal  estate  4/ 

Equity 


Debt/equi ty 
Debt/assets 


See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


Number 


107,000 

105,000 

104,000 

Million  dollars 

102,000 

102,000 

47,428.3 

48,652.8 

51,228.8 

51,300.3 

54,086.5 

33,822.8 

34,526.3 

36,432.8 

37,002.2 

38,985.8 

3,670.3 

3,993.5 

4,381.7 

3,800.4 

4,177.7 

5,107.7 

5,318.1 

5,357.0 

5,365.6 

5,389.8 

2,549.8 

2,562.3 

2,703.8 

2,689.8 

2,813.1 

255.4 

188.8 

205.6 

215.5 

355.3 

2,022.3 

2,063.8 

2,147.9 

2,226.8 

2,364.9 

9,499.7 

9,516.8 

9,618.4 

9,835.3 

9,949.0 

5,672.1 

5,508.5 

5,362.1 

5,446.5 

5,570.1 

3,827.6 

4,008.4 

4,256.3 

4,388.7 

4,378.8 

37,928.6 

39,136.0 

41,610.4 

Rat  i  o 

41,465.0 

44,137.5 

25.0 

24.3 

23.1 

23.7 

22.5 

20.0 

19.6 

18.8 

19.2 

18.4 

Number 

69,000 

69,000 

69,000 

Million  dollars 

69,000 

67,000 

26,950.0 

28,570.7 

29,268.3 

29,846.7 

30,692.5 

18,804.0 

20,351.7 

20,623.6 

21,306.0 

21,618.8 

3,138.2 

3,407.6 

3,670.2 

3,494.4 

3,732.4 

3,142.1 

3,333.9 

3,390.5 

3,462.6 

3,377.4 

722.6 

504.6 

508.6 

445.3 

704.7 

102.1 

62.4 

82.6 

73.0 

121.5 

1,041.0 

910.6 

992.8 

1,065.5 

1,137.8 

5,307.5 

5,330.3 

5,538.3 

5,500.6 

5,565.6 

2,538.2 

2,459.4 

2,461.1 

2,454.0 

2,483.9 

2,769.3 

2,870.8 

3,077.2 

3,046.6 

3,081.7 

21,642.5 

23,240.5 

23,730.0 

Ratio 

24,346.1 

25,126.9 

24.5 

22.9 

23.3 

22.6 

22.2 

19.7 

18.7 

18.9 

18.4 

18.1 

cont  i  nue< 

185 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

KENTUCKY 

Farms 

97,000 

95,000 

Nunber 

93,000 

91,000 

91,000 

Farm  assets 

15,603.3 

17,132.6 

Million  dollars 

16,978.3 

17,155.7 

18,040.7 

Real  estate 

10,657.7 

11,854.5 

11,536.2 

11,719.2 

12,744.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,365.6 

1,442.9 

1,603.7 

1,528.7 

1,523.8 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,986.4 

2,064.2 

2,055.1 

2,053.6 

2,062.9 

Crops  3/ 

718.4 

799.4 

780.7 

820.9 

569.4 

Purchased  inputs 

36.3 

34.6 

49.0 

52.1 

93.3 

Financial 

838.9 

937.1 

953.7 

981.2 

1,047.2 

Farm  debt 

2,615.6 

2,564.1 

2,559.1 

2,732.9 

2,676.1 

Real  estate 

1,653.7 

1,612.9 

1,578.8 

1,691.9 

1,686.2 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

961.9 

951.2 

980.3 

1,041.0 

989.8 

Equity 

12,987.7 

14,568.5 

14,419.3 

14,422.8 

15,364.7 

Debt/equi ty 

20.1 

17.6 

Ratio 

17.7 

18.9 

17.4 

Debt/assets 

16.8 

15.0 

15.1 

15.9 

14.8 

LOUISIANA 

Farms 

33,000 

34,000 

Nunber 

32,000 

30,000 

30,000 

Farm  assets 

9,822.2 

9,284.9 

Million  dol lars 

8,772.3 

8,325.1 

8,343.2 

Real  estate 

7,662.7 

7,503.0 

7,305.8 

7,145.8 

7,354.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

530.9 

584.0 

597.4 

581.6 

627.7 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,142.4 

1,248.9 

1,195.4 

1,144.5 

1,149.6 

Crops  3/ 

109.1 

107.7 

83.5 

110.9 

118.9 

Purchased  inputs 

11.4 

8.1 

8.8 

10.1 

22.9 

Financial 

365.6 

-166.9 

-418.6 

-667.8 

-930.2 

Farm  debt 

2,068.8 

1,920.7 

1,704.6 

1,706.8 

1,703.6 

Real  estate 

931.5 

869.1 

751.8 

750.4 

723.4 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,137.3 

1,051.7 

952.8 

956.4 

980.3 

Equity 

7,753.4 

7,364.1 

7,067.7 

6,618.3 

6,639.6 

Debt/equity 

26.7 

26.1 

Rat  i  o 

24.1 

25.8 

25.7 

Debt/assets 

21.1 

20.7 

19.4 

20.5 

20.4 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


186 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

MAINE 

Farms 

7,300 

7,300 

Nunber 

7,200 

7,100 

Farm  assets 

1,940.5 

2,007.2 

Million  dol lars 

1,879.1 

1,775.7 

Real  estate 

1,379.4 

1,403.7 

1,305.0 

1,212.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

86.1 

94.2 

95.1 

91.0 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

252.7 

268.2 

269.0 

270.9 

Crops  3/ 

123.6 

134.5 

107.8 

82.3 

Purchased  inputs 

23.6 

27.1 

20.7 

20.4 

Financial 

75.0 

79.6 

81.5 

98.3 

Farm  debt 

340.6 

310.2 

303.8 

272.6 

Real  estate 

116.9 

112.2 

107.5 

98.8 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

223.7 

198.0 

196.3 

173.8 

Equity 

1,599.9 

1,697.0 

1,575.3 

1,503.1 

Debt/equity 

21.3 

18.3 

Ratio 

19.3 

18.1 

Debt/assets 

17.6 

15.5 

16.2 

15.4 

MARYLAND 

Farms 

16,000 

15,600 

Number 

15,200 

15,400 

Farm  assets 

6,183.2 

6,160.6 

Million  dollars 

5,699.9 

5,758.5 

Real  estate 

4,870.4 

4,793.8 

4,298.1 

4,389.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

251.3 

276.5 

281.7 

266.1 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

645.4 

667.7 

661.6 

684.6 

Crops  3/ 

155.5 

138.3 

161.6 

109.4 

Purchased  inputs 

13.7 

9.8 

13.5 

13.9 

F i nanc i a l 

246.8 

274.5 

283.3 

294.8 

Farm  debt 

841.7 

929.4 

925.2 

939.5 

Real  estate 

522.2 

579.7 

537.2 

569.3 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

319.5 

349.7 

388.0 

370.2 

Equity 

5,341.4 

5,231.1 

4,774.7 

4,818.9 

Debt/equity 

15.8 

17.8 

Ratio 

19.4 

19.5 

Debt/assets 

13.6 

15.1 

16.2 

16.3 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


7,100 


1,904.3 

1,309.0 

93.8 

272.1 

111.2 
11.0 

107.3 

286.9 

107.3 

179.6 

1,617.5 


17.7 

15.1 


15,600 


6,244.0 

4,815.5 

277.7 
696.6 

102.5 

25.8 

325.9 

961.8 
597.1 

364.8 

5,282.2 


18.2 

15.4 


conti nued-- 


187 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Number 

Farms 

6,900 

6,900 

6,900 

6,900 

Million  dollars 

Farm  assets 

3,664.8 

3,763.4 

3,553.9 

3,423.7 

Real  estate 

3,239.5 

3,313.0 

3,090.1 

2,939.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

55.1 

58.8 

57.4 

57.9 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

199.7 

211.9 

215.5 

220.1 

Crops  3/ 

23.9 

21.2 

22.6 

19.4 

Purchased  inputs 

2.4 

3.5 

8.9 

9.4 

Financial 

144.2 

155.1 

159.4 

177.9 

Farm  debt 

219.6 

249.2 

299.1 

295.7 

Real  estate 

82.4 

104.5 

115.2 

117.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

137.2 

144.7 

183.9 

177.8 

Equi ty 

3,445.2 

3,514.2 

3,254.9 

3,128.1 

Rat  i  o 

Debt/equity 

6.4 

7.1 

9.2 

9.5 

Debt/assets 

6.0 

6.6 

8.4 

8.6 

MICHIGAN 

Number 

Farms 

56,000 

55,000 

54,000 

54,000 

Million  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

13,248.0 

13,962.9 

14,930.1 

15,160.8 

Real  estate 

8,783.9 

9,308.4 

10,114.9 

10,238.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

878.1 

981.9 

1,033.8 

996.4 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

2,324.7 

2,422.5 

2,418.9 

2,470.3 

Crops  3/ 

500.8 

471.5 

532.8 

588.5 

Purchased  inputs 

106.5 

81.7 

112.8 

94.3 

Financial 

654.1 

696.9 

717.0 

773.3 

Farm  debt 

2,842.7 

2,678.0 

2,607.5 

2,554.5 

Real  estate 

1,620.7 

1,491.9 

1,447.7 

1,391.0 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,222.0 

1,186.1 

1,159.9 

1,163.6 

Equity 

10,405.3 

11,285.0 

12,322.6 

12,606.3 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

27.3 

23.7 

21.2 

20.3 

Debt/assets 

21.5 

19.2 

17.5 

16.8 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


6,900 


3,649.5 

3.145.4 

60.7 

221.1 

21.3 

10.4 
190.6 

299.0 

121.8 

177.2 

3.350.5 


8.9 

8.2 


54,000 


15,567.3 

10.333.5 
1,044.0 

2,481.4 

746.9 

130.7 

830.8 

2,601.7 

1.434.3 

1.167.4 

12.965.6 


20.1 

16.7 


conti nued- 


188 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

MINNESOTA 

Farms 

92,000 

90,000 

Number 

89,000 

88,000 

Farm  assets 

30,192.3 

32,779.0 

Million  dollars 

35,021.6 

35,020.5 

Real  estate 

19,340.5 

21,646.4 

23,594.3 

23,472.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

2,125.0 

2,230.2 

2,344.7 

2,197.7 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

4,632.5 

4,808.3 

4,835.7 

4,882.9 

Crops  3/ 

1,932.7 

1,850.5 

1,921.7 

1,933.6 

Purchased  inputs 

250.2 

189.2 

210.3 

224.9 

Financial 

1,911.4 

2,054.4 

2,114.8 

2,309.4 

Farm  debt 

6,694.5 

6,552.5 

6,393.0 

6,583.0 

Real  estate 

3,750.3 

3,543.8 

3,428.6 

3,450.0 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

2,944.2 

3,008.7 

2,964.4 

3,133.0 

Equi ty 

23,497.8 

26,226.6 

28,628.6 

28,437.6 

Debt/equity 

28.5 

25.0 

Ratio 

22.3 

23.1 

Debt/assets 

22.2 

20.0 

18.3 

18.8 

MISSISSIPPI 

Farms 

42,000 

41,000 

Nunber 

40,000 

38,000 

Farm  assets 

11,058.9 

11,401.8 

Million  dollars 

11,534.1 

11,271.8 

Real  estate 

8,063.3 

8,343.5 

8,516.3 

8,103.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

709.4 

744.9 

736.5 

783.8 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,324.1 

1,371.5 

1,360.8 

1,320.2 

Crops  3/ 

161.7 

179.5 

121.5 

180.0 

Purchased  inputs 

20.9 

16.1 

19.4 

20.8 

Financial 

779.5 

746.3 

779.8 

864.0 

Farm  debt 

2,771.1 

2,631.0 

2,437.3 

2,458.8 

Real  estate 

1,387.4 

1,332.9 

1,215.8 

1,241.0 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,383.7 

1,298.2 

1,221.4 

1,217.8 

Equi ty 

8,287.8 

8,770.8 

9,096.9 

8,813.1 

Debt/equi  ty 

33.4 

30.0 

Ratio 

26.8 

27.9 

Debt/assets 

25.1 

23.1 

21.1 

21.8 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


88,000 


35,484.2 

23,653.0 

2.345.7 
4,905.0 

1.781.9 
347.0 

2.451.7 

6.707.6 

3.498.9 

3.208.7 

28,776.6 


23.3 

18.9 


38,000 


11,639.0 

8,279.7 

809.3 

1.326.1 
247.1 

31.7 

945.0 

2,412.5 

1.185.4 

1.227.2 

9.226.5 


26.1 

20.7 


cont i nued- - 


189 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

MISSOURI 

Farms 

110,000 

109,000 

Nunber 

108,000 

107,000 

Farm  assets 

25,163.7 

26,321.7 

Million  dollars 

26,865.4 

26,725.4 

Real  estate 

17,379.1 

18,020.7 

18,444.0 

18,382.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

2,622.7 

2,843.7 

2,973.5 

2,785.3 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

2,825.2 

2,970.4 

2,993.1 

3,028.4 

Crops  3/ 

888.4 

967.4 

848.0 

805.5 

Purchased  inputs 

71.6 

62.7 

79.5 

78.3 

Financial 

1,376.6 

1,456.8 

1,527.3 

1,645.9 

Farm  debt 

4,515.7 

4,413.5 

4,411.5 

4,558.4 

Real  estate 

2,713.9 

2,613.6 

2,596.4 

2,642.6 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,801.7 

1,799.9 

1,815.1 

1,915.8 

Equi ty 

20,648.0 

21,908.1 

22,453.9 

22,167.0 

Debt/equity 

21.9 

20.1 

Ratio 

19.6 

20.6 

Debt/assets 

17.9 

16.8 

16.4 

17.1 

MONTANA 

Farms 

24,600 

24,700 

Nunber 

24,700 

24,700 

Farm  assets 

15,527.8 

17,443.7 

Million  dollars 

17,982.7 

18,505.3 

Real  estate 

11,527.9 

13,293.9 

13,663.2 

13,997.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,640.3 

1,628.7 

1,821.1 

1,855.0 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,350.1 

1,438.3 

1,462.7 

1,493.8 

Crops  3/ 

557.5 

616.7 

515.5 

605.1 

Purchased  inputs 

46.2 

42.2 

55.8 

51.9 

Financial 

405.8 

423.9 

464.4 

502.4 

Farm  debt 

2,621.9 

2,577.7 

2,507.4 

2,469.0 

Real  estate 

1,685.2 

1,620.1 

1,569.4 

1,562.7 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

936.7 

957.6 

938.0 

906.3 

Equity 

12,905.9 

14,866.0 

15,475.2 

16,036.4 

Debt/equi ty 

20.3 

17.3 

Ratio 

16.2 

15.4 

Debt/assets 

16.9 

14.8 

13.9 

13.3 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


107,000 


27,755.8 

18,975.3 

2,962.9 

3,042.1 

862.8 

103.2 

1,809.4 

4,565.3 

2,719.6 

1,845.8 

23,190.5 


19.7 

16.4 


24,600 


19.355.4 

14.855.4 

1,904.1 
1,494.5 

588.1 

67.1 

446.2 

2,448.0 

1,566.4 

881.6 

16.907.4 


14.5 

12.6 


cont i nued- - 


190 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

NEBRASKA 

Farms 

58,000 

57,000 

Number 

57,000 

56,000 

56,000 

Farm  assets 

32,039.3 

33,960.7 

Million  dollars 

35,080.3 

35,069.8 

36,114.9 

Real  estate 

22,875.3 

24,490.5 

24,787.7 

25,247.4 

25,637.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

3,531.9 

3,823.9 

4,516.2 

4,017.4 

4,304.6 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

3,080.7 

3,212.3 

3,266.9 

3,277.8 

3,292.6 

Crops  3/ 

1,536.9 

1,398.7 

1,424.5 

1,377.2 

1,521.4 

Purchased  inputs 

147.3 

121.6 

143.5 

126.5 

184.4 

Financial 

867.2 

913.7 

941.6 

1,023.4 

1,174.8 

Farm  debt 

6,177.4 

6,194.7 

6,340.3 

6,594.0 

6,855.9 

Real  estate 

2,992.0 

2,886.0 

2,713.5 

2,725.9 

2,900.3 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

3,185.4 

3,308.6 

3,626.8 

3,868.1 

3,955.6 

Equity 

25,862.0 

27,766.0 

28,740.0 

28,475.8 

29,259.0 

Debt/equity 

23.9 

22.3 

Ratio 

22.1 

23.2 

23.4 

Debt/assets 

19.3 

18.2 

18.1 

18.8 

19.0 

NEVADA 

Farms 

2,600 

2,500 

Number 

2,500 

2,500 

2,500 

Farm  assets 

2,832.5 

2,548.2 

Mi l lion  dol lars 

2,870.4 

2,950.5 

2,782.9 

Real  estate 

2,295.3 

1,967.6 

2,258.4 

2,362.0 

2,192.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

292.2 

329.7 

348.9 

326.2 

309.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

123.2 

125.7 

127.9 

130.6 

131.2 

Crops  3/ 

54.9 

54.9 

56.5 

46.1 

34.3 

Purchased  inputs 

8.3 

5.4 

8.0 

7.2 

9.2 

Financial 

58.7 

64.9 

70.7 

78.5 

106.4 

Farm  debt 

286.4 

275.1 

260.2 

245.3 

237.7 

Real  estate 

202.5 

194.8 

183.7 

169.0 

165.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

83.9 

80.2 

76.5 

76.3 

71.8 

Equity 

2,546.1 

2,273.2 

2,610.2 

2,705.2 

2,545.2 

Debt/equity 

11.2 

12.1 

Ratio 

10.0 

9.1 

9.3 

Debt/assets 

10.1 

10.8 

9.1 

8.3 

8.5 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


cont i nued- - 


191 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  3' 

,  1988-92- 

-continued 

Item 

1988  : 

1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

1992 

NEU  HAMPSHIRE 

Nunber 

Farms 

3,200 

3,100 

2,900 

2,900 

2,900 

Million  dollars 

Farm  assets 

1,362.6 

1,273.7 

1,250.1 

1,163.9 

1,226.6 

Real  estate 

1,177.4 

1,177.7 

1,075.4 

1,001.0 

1,052.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

36.8 

36.3 

36.7 

36.4 

41.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

98.0 

100.7 

95.8 

97.9 

98.3 

Crops  3/ 

16.7 

14.3 

11.6 

11.2 

13.3 

Purchased  inputs 

8.0 

6.3 

3.0 

2.5 

2.5 

Financial 

25.5 

-61.7 

27.6 

15.0 

18.0 

Farm  debt 

64.6 

66.7 

69.7 

66.3 

66.9 

Real  estate 

33.2 

32.3 

32.3 

31.4 

31.1 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

31.4 

34.5 

37.4 

34.8 

35.8 

Equity 

1,298.0 

1,206.9 

1,180.4 

1,097.6 

1,159.7 

Ratio 

Debt/equi ty 

5.0 

5.5 

5.9 

6.0 

5.8 

Debt/assets 

4.7 

5.2 

5.6 

5.7 

5.5 

NEW  JERSEY 

Nunber 

Farms 

8,300 

8,300 

8,100 

8,300 

8,500 

Mil l ion  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

7,211.9 

7,470.1 

7,662.9 

7,588.8 

7,296.6 

Real  estate 

6,645.6 

6,878.8 

7,071.7 

6,946.2 

6,611.6 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

65.3 

64.6 

63.8 

66.8 

68.6 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

283.2 

300.5 

298.2 

312.1 

321.0 

Crops  3/ 

26.4 

28.8 

28.6 

21.9 

22.1 

Purchased  inputs 

12.7 

10.5 

10.5 

9.5 

14.1 

Financial 

178.8 

186.9 

190.1 

232.4 

259.2 

Farm  debt 

369.1 

378.7 

411.6 

435.2 

455.2 

Real  estate 

238.6 

243.5 

253.0 

239.0 

254.2 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

130.5 

135.2 

158.6 

196.2 

201.0 

Equi ty 

6,842.8 

7,091.3 

7,251.3 

7,153.6 

6,841.4 

Ratio 

Debt/equi ty 

5.4 

5.3 

5.7 

6.1 

6.7 

Debt/assets 

5.1 

5.1 

5.4 

5.7 

6.2 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


192 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

NEW  MEXICO 

Number 

Farms 

14,000 

14,000 

13,500 

13,500 

13,500 

Million  dollars 

Farm  assets 

9,567.4 

9,952.9 

11,457.8 

11,805.9 

11,183.9 

Real  estate 

7,959.8 

8,254.3 

9,745.1 

10,005.9 

9,346.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

812.0 

845.6 

857.5 

908.2 

921.9 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

418.5 

444.1 

435.5 

444.7 

446.7 

Crops  3/ 

61.1 

79.7 

62.2 

75.1 

61.1 

Purchased  inputs 

32.3 

23.5 

25.7 

16.0 

21.2 

Financial 

283.7 

305.7 

331.8 

356.0 

386.9 

Farm  debt 

1,037.6 

1,023.3 

1,085.0 

1,063.1 

1,047.5 

Real  estate 

619.8 

591.8 

622.0 

576.2 

563.4 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

417.8 

431.5 

463.0 

486.8 

484.1 

Equity 

8,529.8 

8,929.7 

10,372.7 

10,742.8 

10,136.4 

Rat  i  o 

Debt/equity 

12.2 

11.5 

10.5 

9.9 

10.3 

Debt/assets 

10.8 

10.3 

9.5 

9.0 

9.4 

NEW  YORK 

Nunber 

Farms 

41,000 

39,000 

38,500 

38,000 

38,000 

Million  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

11,552.0 

11,400.1 

11,966.5 

11,843.9 

12,455.0 

Real  estate 

7,389.2 

7,083.9 

7,594.7 

7,591.1 

8,046.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,158.4 

1,291.5 

1,258.4 

1,262.8 

1,302.6 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,818.0 

1,834.9 

1,842.1 

1,856.8 

1,865.2 

Crops  3/ 

447.8 

467.7 

535.4 

417.4 

438.9 

Purchased  inputs 

71.4 

59.8 

69.1 

58.6 

89.6 

Financial 

667.1 

662.4 

666.7 

657.2 

711.9 

Farm  debt 

2,090.2 

2,200.0 

2,160.5 

2,003.4 

2,084.8 

Real  estate 

927.9 

1,024.1 

892.2 

843.4 

868.7 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,162.3 

1,175.9 

1,268.3 

1,160.0 

1,216.1 

Equi ty 

9,461.8 

9,200.1 

9,805.9 

9,840.4 

10,370.2 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

22.1 

23.9 

22.0 

20.4 

20.1 

Debt/assets 

18.1 

19.3 

18.1 

16.9 

16.7 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


cont i nued- - 


193 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

Farms 

68,000 

65,000 

Nunber 

62,000 

60,000 

60,000 

Farm  assets 

14,890.4 

14,564.5 

Mi l lion  dol lars 

14,207.8 

14,237.6 

14,809.4 

Real  estate 

11,186.2 

10,748.4 

10,281.0 

10,233.9 

10,522.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

649.1 

724.3 

816.8 

830.5 

926.2 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,867.6 

1,894.1 

1,837.4 

1,815.9 

1,824.1 

Crops  3/ 

284.5 

231.4 

232.1 

251.1 

318.6 

Purchased  inputs 

39.5 

27.8 

27.5 

25.4 

41.7 

Financial 

863.6 

938.5 

1,013.0 

1,080.8 

1,176.1 

Farm  debt 

2,605.5 

2,548.9 

2,565.1 

2,698.8 

2,623.3 

Real  estate 

1,496.0 

1,458.8 

1,432.5 

1,522.4 

1,386.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,109.5 

1,090.1 

1,132.6 

1,176.4 

1,236.3 

Equity 

12,284.9 

12,015.7 

11,642.8 

11,538.8 

12,186.2 

Debt/equi  ty 

21.2 

21.2 

Ratio 

22.0 

23.4 

21.5 

Debt/assets 

17.5 

17.5 

18.1 

19.0 

17.7 

NORTH  DAKOTA 

Farms 

33,500 

33,500 

Nunber 

34,000 

33,000 

33,000 

Farm  assets 

18,219.6 

18,941.6 

Million  dollars 

20,337.7 

20,116.2 

21,594.8 

Real  estate 

12,365.7 

13,077.7 

14,150.8 

13,710.8 

14,791.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,077.9 

1,177.4 

1,287.9 

1,276.4 

1,357.0 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

2,345.4 

2,488.6 

2,568.6 

2,546.1 

2,557.5 

Cropis  3/ 

899.9 

779.6 

845.0 

989.0 

1,171.6 

Purchased  inputs 

99.0 

80.3 

92.2 

92.4 

122.9 

Financial 

1,431.7 

1,338.1 

1,393.2 

1,501.6 

1,594.6 

Farm  debt 

3,462.6 

3,388.5 

3,343.6 

3,326.2 

3,261.6 

Real  estate 

1,759.0 

1,667.8 

1,690.1 

1,660.3 

1,612.9 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,703.6 

1,720.7 

1,653.5 

1,665.8 

1,648.7 

Equity 

14,757.0 

15,553.1 

16,994.2 

16,790.1 

18,333.2 

Debt/equi  ty 

23.5 

21.8 

Ratio 

19.7 

19.8 

17.8 

Debt/assets 

19.0 

17.9 

16.4 

16.5 

15.1 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


conti nued-- 


194 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

OHIO 

Farms 

85,000 

86,000 

Number 

84,000 

80,000 

Farm  assets 

23,015.6 

23,284.5 

Million  dol lars 

23,745.0 

23,876.0 

Real  estate 

16,454.9 

16,415.0 

16,734.3 

17,104.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,249.3 

1,277.5 

1,305.8 

1,218.9 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

3,069.7 

3,295.4 

3,273.5 

3,183.8 

Crops  3/ 

810.6 

882.8 

941.5 

806.1 

Purchased  inputs 

98.5 

66.5 

76.9 

76.0 

Financial 

1,332.5 

1,347.4 

1,413.0 

1,486.3 

Farm  debt 

3,252.5 

3,198.7 

3,148.0 

3,148.9 

Real  estate 

1,978.9 

1,918.7 

1,851.8 

1,874.6 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,273.5 

1,280.0 

1,296.2 

1,274.3 

Equity 

19,763.1 

20,085.8 

20,597.0 

20,727.1 

Debt/equity 

16.5 

15.9 

Ratio 

15.3 

15.2 

Debt/assets 

14.1 

13.7 

13.3 

13.2 

OKLAHOMA 

Farms 

70,000 

70,000 

Number 

70,000 

70,000 

Farm  assets 

20,080.2 

20,190.5 

Million  dol lars 

20,424.9 

20,693.1 

Real  estate 

14,629.4 

14,252.2 

14,088.4 

14,289.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

2,568.2 

2,717.9 

3,094.3 

3,062.8 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,863.2 

1,976.9 

2,010.5 

2,053.2 

Crops  3/ 

347.8 

303.1 

238.6 

241.7 

Purchased  inputs 

64.0 

34.3 

37.5 

37.2 

Financial 

607.6 

906.1 

955.7 

1,009.0 

Farm  debt 

3,901.7 

3,834.2 

3,730.5 

3,678.6 

Real  estate 

1,911.4 

1,819.1 

1,690.7 

1,663.3 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,990.3 

2,015.1 

2,039.8 

2,015.3 

Equity 

16,178.5 

16,356.3 

16,694.4 

17,014.6 

Debt/equity 

24.1 

23.4 

Ratio 

22.3 

21.6 

Debt/assets 

19.4 

19.0 

18.3 

17.8 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


78,000 


24,056.2 

17,002.7 

1.221.7 

3.118.2 
993.0 
140.9 

1.579.7 

3,138.0 

1.919.3 

1.218.8 

20,918.2 


15.0 

13.0 


71,000 


21,969.2 

15,329.6 

3,092.8 

2,091.9 

292.7 

64.0 

1,098.1 

3,588.3 

1,600.6 

1,987.7 

18,380.9 


19.5 

16.3 


continued-- 


195 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

OREGON 

Farms 

36,500 

37,000 

Nunber 

36,500 

37,000 

37,500 

Farm  assets 

10,822.0 

11,774.1 

Million  dol lars 

12,241.6 

12,461.9 

13,327.9 

Real  estate 

7,811.5 

8,647.9 

8,943.7 

9,186.6 

9,854.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

864.3 

891.7 

985.7 

876.6 

938.7 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,252.3 

1,347.0 

1,351.3 

1,399.0 

1,424.3 

Crops  3/ 

284.3 

221.1 

241.1 

231.0 

248.5 

Purchased  inputs 

47.1 

35.2 

57.6 

61.2 

89.0 

Financial 

562.4 

631.3 

662.2 

707.7 

772.7 

Farm  debt 

2,404.4 

2,351.7 

2,362.2 

2,471.0 

2,297.7 

Real  estate 

1,696.9 

1,666.4 

1,589.5 

1,605.7 

1,541.4 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

707.5 

685.2 

772.6 

865.3 

756.3 

Equity 

8,417.5 

9,422.4 

9,879.4 

9,990.9 

11,030.2 

Debt/equi ty 

28.6 

25.0 

Ratio 

23.9 

24.7 

20.8 

Debt/assets 

22.2 

20.0 

19.3 

19.8 

17.2 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Farms 

55,000 

54,000 

Nunber 

53,000 

53,000 

52,000 

Farm  assets 

17,873.0 

17,870.9 

Mi  1 1 ion  dol lars 

17,548.4 

17,863.6 

17,459.4 

Real  estate 

12,943.3 

12,706.4 

12,348.9 

12,708.1 

12,117.3 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,431.0 

1,516.9 

1,527.2 

1,556.7 

1,580.9 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

2,068.9 

2,155.2 

2,151.3 

2,197.0 

2,165.2 

Crops  3/ 

621.7 

663.7 

691.2 

537.5 

636.9 

Purchased  inputs 

81.8 

61.1 

80.2 

76.6 

117.4 

Financial 

726.3 

767.6 

749.7 

787.7 

841.6 

Farm  debt 

2,246.6 

2,226.5 

2,242.6 

2,357.7 

2,377.5 

Real  estate 

1,255.9 

1,241.8 

1,245.3 

1,310.3 

1,355.0 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

990.7 

984.7 

997.3 

1,047.4 

1,022.5 

Equity 

15,626.4 

15,644.4 

15,305.8 

15,505.9 

15,081.9 

Debt/equi  ty 

14.4 

14.2 

Ratio 

14.7 

15.2 

15.8 

Debt/assets 

12.6 

12.5 

12.8 

13.2 

13.6 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


196 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

RHODE  ISLAND 

Farms 

770 

770 

Number 

740 

700 

700 

Farm  assets 

451.7 

463.5 

Million  dollars 

419.3 

379.8 

388.9 

Real  estate 

408.4 

417.5 

373.4 

334.7 

342.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

5.3 

5.6 

5.8 

5.9 

5.7 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

25.0 

26.5 

25.9 

25.0 

25.1 

Crops  3/ 

1.5 

1.6 

1.5 

1.3 

1.4 

Purchased  inputs 

.6 

.3 

.3 

.6 

.9 

Financial 

10.9 

11.9 

12.4 

12.3 

13.6 

Farm  debt 

26.7 

27.9 

34.2 

35.5 

37.5 

Real  estate 

15.2 

15.2 

14.3 

13.7 

14.6 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

11.5 

12.7 

19.9 

21.8 

22.9 

Equity 

425.0 

435.6 

385.0 

344.3 

351.4 

Debt/equity 

6.3 

6.4 

Ratio 

8.9 

10.3 

10.7 

Debt/assets 

5.9 

6.0 

8.2 

9.3 

9.7 

SOUTH  CAROLINA 

Farms 

26,000 

25,500 

Number 

25,000 

24,500 

24,500 

Farm  assets 

5,872.7 

5,920.7 

Million  dollars 

6,083.5 

6,037.7 

5,803.7 

Real  estate 

4,149.2 

4,139.7 

4,248.1 

4,130.1 

3,831.2 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

329.6 

342.6 

354.8 

358.4 

388.6 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

734.0 

763.8 

761.6 

762.2 

765.6 

Crops  3/ 

126.9 

97.3 

58.2 

73.8 

73.6 

Purchased  inputs 

18.8 

30.1 

42.2 

38.3 

28.9 

Financial 

514.1 

547.2 

618.8 

674.9 

715.8 

Farm  debt 

1,013.5 

928.6 

932.8 

905.1 

875.5 

Real  estate 

595.9 

531.2 

530.9 

519.5 

494.7 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

417.6 

397.4 

401.9 

385.7 

380.8 

Equi ty 

4,859.2 

4,992.2 

5,150.8 

5,132.5 

4,928.1 

Debt/equi ty 

20.9 

18.6 

Ratio 

18.1 

17.6 

17.8 

Debt/assets 

17.3 

15.7 

15.3 

15.0 

15.1 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


197 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

SOUTH  DAKOTA 

Farms 

35,000 

35,000 

Nunber 

35,000 

35,000 

35,000 

Farm  assets 

17,395.5 

19,387.3 

Million  dollars 

20,778.9 

21,135.8 

21,840.4 

Real  estate 

11,762.3 

13,594.7 

14,561.4 

14,990.3 

15,120.9 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

2,327.7 

2,396.1 

2,659.3 

2,503.6 

2,830.9 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,739.1 

1,845.2 

1,876.6 

1,916.4 

1,925.1 

Crops  3/ 

866.7 

818.9 

908.7 

895.6 

1,041.5 

Purchased  inputs 

95.7 

80.2 

89.3 

64.8 

113.7 

F i nanc i a l 

604.0 

652.3 

683.6 

765.0 

808.5 

Farm  debt 

3,169.1 

3,093.5 

3,246.0 

3,410.0 

3,423.7 

Real  estate 

1,421.7 

1,358.9 

1,398.7 

1,434.6 

1,420.3 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,747.4 

1,734.6 

1,847.3 

1,975.4 

2,003.4 

Equity 

14,226.4 

16,293.8 

17,533.0 

17,725.7 

18,416.7 

Debt/equity 

22.3 

19.0 

Ratio 

18.5 

19.2 

18.6 

Debt/assets 

18.2 

16.0 

15.6 

16.1 

15.7 

TENNESSEE 

Farms 

91,000 

91,000 

Nunber 

89,000 

87,000 

88,000 

Farm  assets 

14,359.0 

14,946.5 

Mi  1 1 ion  dol lars 

14,830.5 

14,695.9 

15,648.4 

Real  estate 

9,978.2 

10,274.8 

10,074.6 

9,940.4 

10,728.6 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

1,219.9 

1,267.4 

1,319.4 

1,265.6 

1,297.5 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,866.0 

1,979.9 

1,969.3 

1,965.9 

1,997.5 

Crops  3/ 

293.4 

378.8 

350.0 

338.2 

304.7 

Purchased  inputs 

33.0 

28.6 

34.0 

31.3 

43.1 

F i nanc i a l 

968.5 

1,017.0 

1,083.3 

1,154.5 

1,277.0 

Farm  debt 

2,016.0 

1,966.6 

1,993.3 

1,987.8 

1,976.8 

Real  estate 

1,095.7 

1,068.9 

1,056.2 

1,036.2 

1,056.4 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

920.3 

897.7 

937.1 

951.5 

920.4 

Equi ty 

12,343.0 

12,979.9 

12,837.2 

12,708.1 

13,671.5 

Debt/equi ty 

16.3 

15.2 

Ratio 

15.5 

15.6 

14.5 

Debt/assets 

14.0 

13.2 

13.4 

13.5 

12.6 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


198 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

TEXAS 

Farms 

187,000 

186,000 

Number 

186,000 

185,000 

Farm  assets 

76,716.1 

76,002.8 

Million  dollars 

75,370.9 

73,129.4 

Real  estate 

60,303.3 

58,853.4 

57,673.0 

55,355.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

7,513.6 

7,929.1 

8,569.9 

8,342.7 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

5,127.0 

5,410.8 

5,502.8 

5,589.5 

Crops  3/ 

793.8 

841.1 

562.4 

598.4 

Purchased  inputs 

317.0 

222.3 

133.6 

108.1 

Financial 

2,661.5 

2,746.3 

2,929.2 

3,135.8 

Farm  debt 

10,088.3 

9,663.4 

9,479.4 

9,648.2 

Real  estate 

4,836.1 

4,559.9 

4,603.9 

4,588.8 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

5,252.2 

5,103.5 

4,875.5 

5,059.4 

Equity 

66,627.8 

66,339.4 

65,891.5 

63,481.3 

Debt/equity 

15.1 

14.6 

Ratio 

14.4 

15.2 

Oebt/assets 

13.2 

12.7 

12.6 

13.2 

UTAH 

Farms 

13,300 

13,000 

Number 

13,200 

13,300 

Farm  assets 

5,296.4 

5,063.1 

Million  dollars 

5,333.0 

5,427.8 

Real  estate 

4,112.7 

3,881.0 

4,068.0 

4,240.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

536.5 

572.0 

582.7 

566.3 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

428.7 

444.6 

459.1 

472.5 

Crops  3/ 

123.5 

94.9 

114.6 

95.0 

Purchased  inputs 

12.2 

12.4 

15.5 

20.8 

Financial 

82.7 

58.1 

93.1 

32.4 

Farm  debt 

743.0 

683.2 

657.9 

659.4 

Real  estate 

428.2 

390.3 

368.6 

354.4 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

314.8 

292.9 

289.2 

305.0 

Equity 

4,553.4 

4,379.9 

4,675.2 

4,768.5 

Debt/equity 

16.3 

15.6 

Ratio 

14.1 

13.8 

Debt/assets 

14.0 

13.5 

12.3 

12.1 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


183,000 


74,386.5 

55,719.2 

8.986.2 

5.553.9 

556.5 
159.7 

3,411.0 

9.299.9 
4,488.6 

4.811.3 

65,086.6 


14.3 

12.5 


13,200 


5,857.5 

4.616.2 

637.9 
471.0 

90.2 

28.8 

13.4 

651.2 

351.9 
299.4 

5.206.2 


12.5 

11.1 


continued- 


199 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92- -continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

VERMONT 

Farms 

7,100 

7,000 

Number 

7,000 

6,900 

Farm  assets 

2,332.6 

2,404.4 

Million  dol lars 

2,272.1 

2,184.6 

Real  estate 

1,656.5 

1,676.6 

1,558.3 

1,480.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

213.4 

245.6 

233.2 

234.2 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

295.6 

309.2 

314.5 

316.6 

Crops  3/ 

65.1 

65.3 

60.1 

45.7 

Purchased  inputs 

7.7 

5.9 

7.5 

10.8 

Financial 

94.3 

101.9 

98.5 

96.7 

Farm  debt 

312.5 

324.8 

345.6 

340.5 

Real  estate 

178.4 

178.0 

178.1 

175.2 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

134.1 

146.8 

167.5 

165.3 

Equity 

2,020.1 

2,079.6 

1,926.5 

1,844.1 

Debt/equity 

15.5 

15.6 

Ratio 

17.9 

18.5 

Debt/assets 

13.4 

13.5 

15.2 

15.6 

VIRGINIA 

Farms 

48,000 

47,000 

Number 

46,000 

45,000 

Farm  assets 

13,117.8 

15,173.7 

Mi  l  lion  dol lars 

13,479.9 

13,733.0 

Real  estate 

10,129.4 

11,824.2 

9,975.4 

10,232.1 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

904.7 

965.1 

1,084.7 

1,071.1 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,311.6 

1,362.6 

1,356.3 

1,355.0 

Crops  3/ 

302.7 

299.1 

296.6 

226.0 

Purchased  inputs 

29.8 

21.6 

21.6 

20.3 

Financial 

439.6 

701.2 

745.2 

828.6 

Farm  debt 

1,820.8 

1,861.5 

1,904.3 

1,920.5 

Real  estate 

1,103.1 

1,115.5 

1,161.1 

1,194.7 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

717.7 

745.9 

743.2 

725.8 

Equity 

11,297.0 

13,312.3 

11,575.6 

11,812.6 

Debt/equity 

16.1 

14.0 

Ratio 

16.5 

16.3 

Debt/assets 

13.9 

12.3 

14.1 

14.0 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


1992 


6,900 


2.342.3 

1.594.4 

256.9 
318.0 

59.2 

16.0 

97.9 

317.1 

161.1 
156.0 

2,025.2 


15.7 

13.5 


44,000 


13,126.2 

9.562.7 
1,067.1 

1,330.9 

263.9 

35.2 

866.5 

1.909.8 
1,224.3 

685.5 

11,216.5 


17.0 

14.5 


continued- 


200 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

:  1990  : 

1991 

:  1992 

WASHINGTON 

Farms 

38,000 

38,000 

Nunber 

37,000 

37,000 

37,000 

Farm  assets 

14,204.8 

14,918.5 

Million  dollars 

15,336.6 

15,281.6 

15,224.3 

Real  estate 

10,623.2 

11,240.1 

11,594.3 

11,454.7 

11,311.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

883.9 

946.0 

1,009.5 

1,042.5 

1,045.2 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

1,575.8 

1,671.9 

1,655.6 

1,690.8 

1,698.4 

Crops  3/ 

451.2 

333.8 

347.5 

345.1 

350.1 

Purchased  inputs 

76.6 

56.8 

48.6 

47.8 

60.9 

Financial 

594.2 

669.8 

681.1 

700.8 

757.9 

Farm  debt 

2,747.6 

2,807.4 

2,885.7 

2,857.7 

2,805.4 

Real  estate 

1,560.6 

1,517.2 

1,474.2 

1,432.3 

1,469.5 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

1,187.0 

1,290.3 

1,411.6 

1,425.5 

1,335.9 

Equi ty 

11,457.2 

12,111.1 

12,450.9 

12,423.9 

12,418.9 

Debt/equity 

24.0 

23.2 

Ratio 

23.2 

23.0 

22.6 

Debt/assets 

19.3 

18.8 

18.8 

18.7 

18.4 

WEST  VIRGINIA 

Farms 

21,000 

21,000 

Nunber 

20,500 

20,000 

20,000 

Farm  assets 

2,797.5 

2,688.9 

Million  dol lars 

2,747.4 

3,011.0 

2,949.5 

Real  estate 

2,040.6 

1,855.7 

1,896.9 

2,151.0 

2,076.7 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

259.2 

276.0 

292.3 

328.2 

305.4 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

331.6 

351.9 

349.3 

348.1 

349.6 

Crops  3/ 

61.9 

92.2 

89.5 

56.4 

72.8 

Purchased  inputs 

2.8 

5.3 

8.6 

9.5 

9.5 

Financial 

101.3 

107.7 

110.7 

117.7 

135.5 

Farm  debt 

408.0 

396.7 

395.1 

394.7 

403.6 

Real  estate 

303.6 

291.0 

274.0 

277.5 

290.2 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

104.4 

105.7 

121.0 

117.3 

113.5 

Equity 

2,389.5 

2,292.2 

2,352.3 

2,616.2 

2,545.9 

Debt/equi  ty 

17.1 

17.3 

Ratio 

16.8 

15.1 

15.9 

Debt/assets 

14.6 

14.8 

14.4 

13.1 

13.7 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table. 


continued-- 


201 


Table  31--Farm  business  balance  sheet  by  State,  December  31,  1988-92--continued 


Item 

1988 

:  1989 

1990 

1991  i 

1992 

WISCONSIN 

Nunber 

Farms 

82,000 

81,000 

80,000 

79,000 

79,000 

Million  dollars 

Farm  assets 

21,720.7 

22,661.1 

23,434.0 

23,393.5 

23,971.7 

Real  estate 

12,244.1 

12,410.8 

13,238.6 

13,267.5 

13,721.8 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

3,015.0 

3,425.7 

3,314.7 

3,180.6 

3,187.0 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

4,002.7 

4,195.2 

4,213.8 

4,249.5 

4,268.7 

Crops  3/ 

1,033.7 

1,092.5 

1,080.5 

1,035.0 

998.0 

Purchased  inputs 

137.8 

128.4 

154.5 

147.7 

207.5 

Financial 

1,287.4 

1,408.5 

1,431.9 

1,513.2 

1,588.7 

Farm  debt 

4,993.5 

4,884.0 

4,703.4 

4,687.4 

4,688.4 

Real  estate 

2,638.9 

2,488.5 

2,438.6 

2,400.0 

2,407.0 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

2,354.6 

2,395.5 

2,264.8 

2,287.4 

2,281.4 

Equi ty 

16,727.2 

17,777.1 

18,730.6 

18,706.1 

19,283.3 

Ratio 

Debt/equity 

29.9 

27.5 

25.1 

25.1 

24.3 

Debt/assets 

23.0 

21.6 

20.1 

20.0 

19.6 

WYOMING 

Nunber 

Farms 

8,900 

8,900 

8,900 

9,000 

9,200 

Million  dol lars 

Farm  assets 

6,112.6 

6,334.9 

6,594.1 

6,130.3 

6,561.7 

Real  estate 

4,451.8 

4,730.3 

4,900.2 

4,397.2 

4,715.0 

Livestock  and  poultry  1/ 

902.8 

863.5 

899.8 

948.9 

1,035.3 

Machinery  and  motor  vehicles  2/ 

367.5 

389.9 

396.5 

409.5 

420.5 

Crops  3/ 

181.4 

142.0 

163.9 

126.3 

119.4 

Purchased  inputs 

23.7 

16.3 

22.3 

14.7 

22.2 

Financial 

185.4 

192.9 

211.3 

233.7 

249.3 

Farm  debt 

745.8 

730.8 

834.8 

862.2 

831.7 

Real  estate 

374.6 

359.2 

447.9 

430.5 

410.6 

Nonreal  estate  4/ 

371.2 

371.5 

386.9 

431.7 

421.1 

Equi ty 

5,366.8 

5,604.1 

5,759.3 

5,268.1 

5,730.0 

Ratio 

Debt/equi ty 

13.9 

13.0 

14.5 

16.4 

14.5 

Debt/assets 

12.2 

11.5 

12.7 

14.1 

12.7 

1/  Excludes  horses,  mules,  and  broilers.  2/  Includes  only  farm  share 

value  for  trucks 

and  autos.  3/  All 

non- CCC 

crops  held  on  farms  plus  the  value  above  loan  rate 

for  crops  held  under 

CCC.  4/  Excludes  debt  for  nonfarm 

purposes. 

202 


Table  32--Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1988 


State 

Farm 

Credit 

System 

:  Farmers  Home 

:  Administration 

Life  insurance 
companies 

All 

operating 

banks 

Individuals 
and  others 

CCC  : 

storage  : 
and  drying  : 
loans  : 

Total 

Million  dollars 

Alabama 

357 

111 

52 

178 

112 

0 

810 

Alaska 

7 

1 

6 

2 

5 

0 

21 

Arizona 

131 

66 

158 

159 

140 

0 

653 

Arkansas 

450 

295 

259 

368 

200 

1 

1,573 

California 

2,909 

238 

1,830 

655 

1,351 

0 

6,983 

Colorado 

745 

125 

250 

146 

372 

0 

1,639 

Connect i cut 

42 

15 

31 

11 

17 

0 

115 

Delaware 

64 

15 

1 

42 

22 

0 

145 

Florida 

882 

125 

652 

559 

342 

0 

2,560 

Georgia 

727 

202 

139 

456 

162 

1 

1,687 

Hawai i 

128 

29 

30 

32 

10 

0 

229 

Idaho 

539 

259 

179 

31 

330 

1 

1,339 

Illinois 

1,595 

334 

464 

1,211 

903 

1 

4,508 

Indiana 

949 

302 

282 

718 

783 

0 

3,033 

Iowa 

1,568 

444 

549 

1,061 

2,047 

2 

5,672 

Kansas 

1,060 

273 

235 

541 

430 

0 

2,538 

Kentucky 

365 

286 

141 

579 

282 

0 

1,654 

Louisiana 

372 

177 

140 

144 

98 

1 

932 

Maine 

32 

64 

0 

5 

16 

0 

117 

Maryland 

263 

46 

11 

80 

122 

0 

522 

Massachusetts 

27 

24 

8 

5 

18 

0 

82 

Michigan 

786 

202 

44 

205 

384 

1 

1,621 

Minnesota 

1,521 

355 

219 

579 

1,073 

3 

3,750 

Mississippi 

481 

292 

192 

266 

156 

0 

1,387 

Missouri 

672 

392 

231 

813 

606 

1 

2,714 

Montana 

619 

193 

207 

101 

565 

0 

1,685 

Nebraska 

958 

389 

417 

575 

652 

1 

2,992 

Nevada 

83 

22 

41 

2 

55 

0 

202 

New  Hampshire 

13 

7 

2 

2 

8 

0 

33 

New  Jersey 

112 

28 

1 

24 

74 

0 

239 

New  Mexico 

211 

72 

73 

118 

146 

0 

620 

New  York 

394 

174 

19 

102 

240 

1 

928 

North  Carolina 

746 

275 

52 

258 

165 

0 

1,496 

North  Dakota 

825 

363 

37 

221 

312 

0 

1,759 

Ohio 

653 

195 

137 

574 

419 

0 

1,979 

Oklahoma 

766 

353 

117 

325 

350 

0 

1,911 

Oregon 

545 

128 

427 

55 

542 

0 

1,697 

Pennsylvania 

435 

140 

31 

414 

235 

0 

1,256 

Rhode  Island 

7 

3 

0 

4 

2 

0 

15 

South  Carolina 

374 

98 

17 

49 

58 

0 

596 

South  Dakota 

459 

401 

49 

142 

370 

1 

1,422 

Tennessee 

290 

252 

50 

347 

156 

0 

1,096 

Texas 

1,847 

385 

570 

991 

1,043 

0 

4,836 

Utah 

170 

62 

26 

29 

141 

0 

428 

Vermont 

54 

48 

0 

45 

31 

0 

178 

Vi rginia 

543 

101 

77 

231 

151 

0 

1,103 

Washington 

543 

167 

302 

164 

385 

0 

1,561 

West  Virginia 

74 

47 

98 

61 

24 

0 

304 

Wisconsin 

888 

324 

87 

695 

642 

3 

2,639 

Wyoming 

91 

56 

76 

23 

129 

0 

375 

United  States 

28,372 

8,953 

9,018 

14,397 

16,873 

21 

77,634 

203 


Table  33--Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1988 


State 

All  : 

operating  : 
banks  : 

Farm 

Credit 

System 

:  Farmers 

:  Home  Ad- 

:  ministration 

Debt  owed 
to  individ¬ 
uals  and 
others 

Total  : 

CCC 

crop 

loans 

Alabama 

182 

126 

Million 

171 

dollars 

196 

675 

57 

Alaska 

8 

0 

0 

2 

10 

0 

Ari zona 

476 

147 

149 

146 

918 

57 

Arkansas 

393 

137 

463 

289 

1,282 

430 

Cal i f orni a 

2,546 

1,283 

579 

985 

5,393 

317 

Colorado 

669 

166 

111 

396 

1 ,342 

157 

Connect i cut 

31 

41 

9 

23 

104 

0 

Delaware 

24 

38 

7 

51 

121 

2 

Florida 

309 

204 

217 

257 

987 

3 

Georg i a 

277 

139 

702 

262 

1,381 

45 

Hawai  i 

18 

41 

11 

27 

98 

0 

Idaho 

539 

102 

202 

181 

1,024 

106 

Illinois 

1,826 

170 

272 

503 

2,771 

706 

I ndi ana 

853 

164 

277 

351 

1,645 

209 

I  owa 

2,392 

152 

527 

756 

3,828 

1,177 

Kansas 

1,802 

127 

203 

638 

2,769 

206 

Kentucky 

368 

166 

261 

167 

962 

30 

Loui si  ana 

208 

124 

680 

125 

1,137 

261 

Mai  ne 

45 

52 

91 

35 

224 

0 

Maryland 

50 

134 

29 

107 

320 

6 

Massachusetts 

49 

52 

13 

23 

137 

0 

Michigan 

399 

287 

317 

218 

1,222 

135 

Minnesota 

1,454 

447 

535 

508 

2,944 

967 

Mississippi 

262 

113 

841 

168 

1,384 

337 

Mi ssouri 

935 

140 

421 

306 

1,802 

172 

Montana 

445 

75 

305 

112 

937 

115 

Nebraska 

2,032 

101 

307 

746 

3,185 

1,114 

Nevada 

17 

38 

11 

18 

84 

0 

New  Hampshire 

1 

17 

4 

9 

31 

0 

New  Jersey 

16 

52 

28 

34 

131 

1 

New  Mexico 

173 

68 

58 

119 

418 

37 

New  York 

406 

308 

248 

199 

1,162 

31 

North  Carolina 

236 

279 

266 

328 

1,110 

40 

North  Dakota 

698 

271 

551 

182 

1,704 

442 

Ohio 

517 

221 

242 

293 

1,274 

118 

Oklahoma 

1,076 

127 

523 

265 

1,990 

73 

Oregon 

343 

115 

116 

134 

708 

74 

Pennsylvania 

294 

302 

129 

266 

991 

9 

Rhode  Island 

1 

6 

2 

3 

12 

0 

South  Carolina 

63 

59 

210 

86 

418 

20 

South  Dakota 

893 

93 

546 

215 

1,747 

265 

T  ennessee 

234 

181 

319 

186 

920 

105 

T  exas 

2,513 

809 

1,019 

910 

5,252 

734 

Utah 

109 

115 

37 

54 

315 

5 

Vermont 

28 

52 

20 

34 

134 

0 

Virginia 

184 

212 

168 

154 

718 

8 

Wash i ngton 

801 

47 

128 

211 

1,187 

160 

West  Virginia 

23 

30 

25 

27 

104 

1 

Wi scons i n 

891 

591 

492 

381 

2,355 

160 

Wyomi ng 

201 

43 

55 

72 

371 

6 

United  States 

28,309 

8,766 

12,899 

11,760 

61,734 

8,902 

204 


Table  34--Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1989 


State 

Farm  : 
Credit  : 
System  1/  : 

Farmers  Home 
Adnini  strati  on 

Life  insurance 
companies 

All 

operating 

banks 

Individuals  : 
and  others  : 

CCC 

storage 
and  drying 
loans 

:  Total 

Million  dol lars 

Alabama 

318 

99 

49 

213 

106 

0 

785 

Alaska 

7 

1 

7 

3 

4 

0 

22 

Arizona 

112 

60 

164 

178 

132 

0 

647 

Arkansas 

410 

271 

256 

421 

188 

0 

1,546 

California 

2,794 

229 

2,069 

784 

1,277 

0 

7,153 

Colorado 

706 

112 

208 

172 

353 

0 

1,550 

Connect i cut 

45 

13 

1 

22 

16 

0 

97 

Delaware 

67 

14 

1 

38 

21 

0 

141 

Florida 

795 

112 

761 

658 

323 

0 

2,649 

Georgia 

625 

176 

137 

469 

154 

0 

1,561 

Hawai i 

115 

29 

30 

28 

9 

0 

212 

Idaho 

508 

232 

157 

28 

313 

0 

1,238 

I l l i noi s 

1,452 

307 

436 

1,289 

853 

1 

4,336 

Indiana 

934 

262 

272 

738 

739 

0 

2,946 

Iowa 

1,465 

415 

534 

1,160 

1,933 

1 

5,508 

Kansas 

1,001 

255 

222 

576 

405 

0 

2,459 

Kentucky 

360 

263 

133 

591 

267 

0 

1,613 

Louisiana 

331 

141 

145 

159 

93 

0 

869 

Maine 

35 

55 

0 

7 

15 

0 

112 

Maryland 

270 

41 

11 

141 

116 

0 

580 

Massachusetts 

29 

23 

22 

14 

17 

0 

104 

Michigan 

719 

174 

36 

201 

361 

0 

1,492 

Minnesota 

1,393 

290 

202 

647 

1,011 

2 

3,544 

Mississippi 

429 

264 

205 

288 

147 

0 

1,333 

Missouri 

612 

356 

211 

862 

572 

0 

2,614 

Montana 

582 

186 

202 

116 

534 

0 

1,620 

Nebraska 

894 

358 

384 

634 

616 

0 

2,886 

Nevada 

76 

20 

44 

3 

52 

0 

195 

New  Hampshire 

14 

7 

1 

3 

8 

0 

32 

New  Jersey 

120 

23 

1 

30 

70 

0 

243 

New  Mexico 

200 

67 

68 

119 

138 

0 

592 

New  York 

423 

162 

10 

202 

227 

0 

1,024 

North  Carolina 

679 

244 

81 

299 

156 

0 

1,459 

North  Dakota 

758 

325 

35 

256 

295 

0 

1,668 

Ohio 

643 

178 

130 

573 

395 

0 

1,919 

Oklahoma 

727 

322 

104 

333 

332 

0 

1,819 

Oregon 

512 

118 

442 

82 

513 

0 

1,666 

Pennsylvania 

448 

131 

13 

427 

223 

0 

1,242 

Rhode  Island 

7 

3 

0 

3 

2 

0 

15 

South  Carolina 

320 

89 

13 

54 

54 

0 

531 

South  Dakota 

428 

372 

51 

159 

349 

1 

1,359 

Tennessee 

285 

232 

40 

363 

148 

0 

1,069 

Texas 

1,748 

366 

531 

926 

988 

0 

4,560 

Utah 

154 

58 

11 

34 

133 

0 

390 

Vermont 

58 

46 

0 

44 

30 

0 

178 

Virginia 

587 

92 

69 

224 

143 

0 

1,116 

Washington 

510 

158 

311 

176 

363 

0 

1,517 

West  Virginia 

72 

45 

95 

56 

23 

0 

291 

Wisconsin 

812 

284 

63 

724 

604 

2 

2,489 

Wyoming 

85 

47 

79 

26 

122 

0 

359 

United  States 

26,674 

8,130 

9,045 

15,551 

15,939 

12 

75,351 

1/  Federal  land  banks  debt  prior  to  1988. 


205 


Table  35--Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1989 


State 

All  : 

operating  : 
banks  : 

Farm 
Credi t 
System  1/ 

Farmers 

Home  Ad- 
mini  strati  on 

Debt  owed 
to  individ¬ 
uals  and 
others 

Total  : 

CCC 

crop 

loans 

Million 

dollars 

Alabama 

200 

133 

120 

204 

658 

15 

Alaska 

7 

0 

0 

2 

9 

0 

Ari zona 

469 

164 

133 

152 

917 

47 

Arkansas 

471 

147 

373 

301 

1,292 

303 

Cal i forni a 

2,504 

1,240 

544 

1,026 

5,315 

348 

Colorado 

705 

184 

96 

412 

1,397 

75 

Connect i cut 

29 

47 

8 

24 

107 

0 

Delaware 

24 

38 

6 

53 

122 

2 

Florida 

243 

222 

185 

268 

918 

1 

Georg i a 

295 

152 

537 

273 

1,257 

19 

Hauai i 

29 

50 

11 

28 

118 

0 

Idaho 

566 

107 

168 

189 

1,029 

59 

Illinois 

1,872 

182 

236 

524 

2,814 

420 

I ndi ana 

885 

190 

224 

365 

1,664 

161 

I  owa 

2,603 

174 

443 

788 

4,008 

692 

Kansas 

1,886 

141 

179 

665 

2,871 

75 

Kentucky 

378 

193 

206 

174 

951 

26 

Loui s i ana 

242 

131 

548 

130 

1,052 

113 

Mai  ne 

30 

60 

71 

37 

198 

0 

Maryland 

44 

172 

23 

111 

350 

6 

Massachusetts 

49 

60 

12 

24 

145 

0 

Michi gan 

372 

328 

259 

227 

1,186 

85 

M  i  nnesota 

1,555 

510 

414 

530 

3,009 

599 

M i ss i ss i ppi 

321 

1 19 

682 

175 

1,298 

243 

Missouri 

986 

150 

346 

319 

1,800 

104 

Montana 

489 

78 

273 

117 

958 

100 

Nebraska 

2,152 

116 

263 

777 

3,309 

531 

Nevada 

16 

34 

12 

19 

80 

0 

New  Hampshire 

1 

20 

4 

10 

34 

0 

New  Jersey 

13 

60 

27 

36 

135 

1 

New  Mexico 

181 

76 

51 

124 

431 

8 

New  York 

382 

354 

232 

208 

1,176 

17 

North  Carolina 

243 

303 

202 

342 

1,090 

29 

North  Dakota 

738 

310 

483 

190 

1,721 

220 

Oh  i  o 

514 

256 

205 

305 

1,280 

88 

Oklahoma 

1,151 

141 

448 

276 

2,015 

26 

Oregon 

325 

121 

100 

139 

685 

45 

Pennsyl vani a 

270 

319 

118 

277 

985 

3 

Rhode  Island 

2 

7 

2 

3 

13 

0 

South  Carolina 

64 

64 

180 

90 

397 

9 

South  Dakota 

952 

107 

451 

224 

1,735 

157 

T  ennessee 

216 

210 

279 

193 

898 

50 

T  exas 

2,420 

858 

878 

948 

5,104 

350 

Utah 

118 

85 

33 

56 

293 

3 

Vermont 

32 

60 

19 

36 

147 

0 

Vi rgi ni a 

181 

261 

143 

160 

746 

4 

Wash i ngton 

908 

50 

112 

219 

1,290 

88 

West  Virginia 

20 

36 

22 

28 

106 

1 

Wisconsin 

887 

674 

437 

397 

2,395 

98 

Wyomi ng 

204 

49 

43 

75 

372 

3 

United  States 

29,243 

9,544 

10,843 

12,250 

61,881 

5,225 

1/  Prior  to  1988,  Farm  Credit  System  loans  were  reported  separately  for  production  credit 
association  and  Federal  intermediate  credit  bank  loans  through  other  financial  institutions. 


206 


Table  36--Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1990 


State 

Farm 

Credi t 
System  1/ 

Farmers  Home 
Adnini  strati  on 

Life  insurance 
companies 

All 

operating 

banks 

Individuals 
and  others 

CCC  : 

storage  : 
and  drying  : 
loans  : 

Total 

Alabama 

201 

92 

Million  dollars 

44  243 

101 

0 

681 

Alaska 

7 

0 

8 

1 

4 

0 

19 

Arizona 

105 

50 

195 

102 

125 

0 

578 

Arkansas 

466 

254 

278 

466 

178 

0 

1,643 

California 

2,691 

217 

2,454 

918 

1,204 

0 

7,486 

Colorado 

656 

98 

201 

186 

332 

0 

1,473 

Connect i cut 

49 

13 

0 

21 

15 

0 

98 

Delaware 

86 

12 

0 

36 

20 

0 

154 

Florida 

720 

106 

848 

683 

305 

0 

2,662 

Georgia 

608 

155 

139 

533 

146 

0 

1,581 

Hawai i 

109 

29 

30 

46 

9 

0 

223 

Idaho 

523 

214 

156 

33 

294 

0 

1,221 

Illinois 

1,304 

292 

440 

1,349 

804 

0 

4,190 

Indiana 

860 

231 

262 

762 

698 

0 

2,813 

Iowa 

1,354 

397 

550 

1,238 

1,823 

1 

5,362 

Kansas 

1,029 

242 

196 

611 

383 

0 

2,461 

Kentucky 

364 

249 

115 

598 

253 

0 

1,579 

Louisiana 

215 

126 

159 

164 

87 

0 

752 

Maine 

38 

49 

0 

6 

14 

0 

108 

Maryland 

283 

37 

10 

98 

109 

0 

537 

Massachusetts 

48 

23 

21 

7 

16 

0 

115 

Michigan 

709 

163 

35 

199 

341 

0 

1,448 

Minnesota 

1,284 

263 

210 

714 

955 

1 

3,429 

Mississippi 

228 

241 

286 

321 

139 

0 

1,216 

Missouri 

588 

334 

203 

931 

540 

0 

2,596 

Montana 

550 

178 

195 

143 

503 

0 

1,569 

Nebraska 

752 

338 

353 

689 

581 

0 

2,713 

Nevada 

75 

19 

38 

3 

49 

0 

184 

New  Hampshire 

14 

7 

1 

3 

7 

0 

32 

New  Jersey 

137 

24 

0 

26 

66 

0 

253 

New  Mexico 

246 

64 

69 

114 

130 

0 

622 

New  York 

400 

154 

9 

115 

214 

0 

892 

North  Carolina 

677 

221 

82 

304 

148 

0 

1,433 

North  Dakota 

788 

310 

35 

279 

278 

0 

1,690 

Ohio 

617 

165 

126 

570 

374 

0 

1,852 

Oklahoma 

587 

300 

157 

334 

314 

0 

1,691 

Oregon 

485 

107 

434 

78 

485 

0 

1,590 

Pennsylvania 

465 

125 

11 

434 

210 

0 

1,245 

Rhode  Island 

8 

3 

0 

2 

1 

0 

14 

South  Carolina 

314 

81 

15 

69 

52 

0 

531 

South  Dakota 

490 

353 

49 

177 

330 

0 

1,399 

Tennessee 

302 

215 

37 

362 

140 

0 

1,056 

Texas 

1,931 

347 

544 

850 

932 

0 

4,604 

Utah 

140 

56 

11 

36 

125 

0 

369 

Vermont 

61 

44 

0 

46 

28 

0 

178 

Virginia 

632 

87 

87 

220 

135 

0 

1,161 

Washington 

482 

149 

317 

182 

343 

0 

1,474 

West  Virginia 

76 

43 

81 

52 

21 

0 

274 

Wisconsin 

787 

253 

58 

769 

571 

1 

2,439 

Wyoming 

179 

44 

79 

31 

115 

0 

448 

United  States 

25,719 

7,576 

9,631 

16,158 

15,047 

7 

74,137 

1/  Federal  land  banks  debt  prior  to  1988. 


207 


Table  37--Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1990 


State 

All  : 

operating  : 
banks  : 

Farm  :  Farmers  : 

Credit  :  Home  Ad-  : 

System  1/  :  ministration  : 

Debt  owed 
to  individ¬ 
uals  and 
others 

T  ota  l 

:  CCC 

:  crop 

:  loans 

Alabama 

221 

160 

Million  dollars 

97  213 

690 

8 

Alaska 

4 

0 

0 

2 

6 

0 

Ar i zona 

423 

119 

105 

158 

805 

27 

Arkansas 

525 

215 

320 

313 

1,372 

316 

Cal i forni a 

2,829 

1,207 

504 

1,067 

5,607 

202 

Colorado 

676 

205 

77 

429 

1,386 

53 

Connect i cut 

24 

63 

8 

25 

120 

0 

Delaware 

60 

40 

5 

56 

161 

1 

Florida 

284 

241 

165 

279 

968 

1 

Georg i a 

309 

178 

388 

284 

1,159 

9 

Hawai i 

40 

46 

11 

29 

126 

0 

I  daho 

677 

128 

145 

196 

1,145 

40 

Illinois 

1,964 

192 

202 

545 

2,903 

420 

Indiana 

906 

194 

177 

380 

1,657 

170 

I  owa 

2,859 

209 

368 

819 

4,256 

625 

Kansas 

2,018 

206 

162 

691 

3,077 

99 

Kentucky 

405 

221 

173 

181 

980 

28 

Louis i ana 

252 

72 

492 

136 

953 

107 

Mai  ne 

24 

73 

61 

38 

196 

0 

Maryland 

43 

211 

19 

116 

388 

7 

Massachusetts 

72 

75 

12 

25 

184 

0 

Mich i gan 

357 

336 

231 

236 

1,160 

78 

Minnesota 

1,669 

389 

355 

551 

2,964 

516 

Mississippi 

327 

149 

564 

182 

1,221 

177 

Missouri 

1,023 

176 

285 

331 

1,815 

86 

Montana 

478 

88 

251 

121 

938 

66 

Nebraska 

2,384 

204 

231 

808 

3,627 

471 

Nevada 

18 

31 

9 

20 

76 

0 

New  Hampshire 

1 

22 

4 

10 

37 

0 

New  Jersey 

15 

79 

27 

37 

159 

2 

New  Mexico 

194 

94 

47 

129 

463 

7 

New  York 

417 

416 

219 

216 

1,268 

18 

North  Carolina 

260 

350 

167 

356 

1,133 

19 

North  Dakota 

744 

264 

447 

198 

1,653 

211 

Ohio 

517 

289 

173 

318 

1,296 

103 

Oklahoma 

1,200 

162 

391 

287 

2,040 

19 

Oregon 

405 

136 

87 

145 

773 

22 

Pennsylvania 

249 

347 

113 

288 

997 

9 

Rhode  Island 

0 

15 

2 

3 

20 

0 

South  Carolina 

77 

80 

151 

94 

402 

5 

South  Dakota 

1,058 

154 

404 

233 

1 ,847 

132 

T  ennessee 

232 

260 

244 

201 

937 

26 

T  exas 

2,460 

661 

769 

986 

4,876 

145 

Utah 

134 

62 

34 

58 

289 

2 

Vermont 

37 

76 

17 

37 

168 

0 

Virginia 

180 

271 

126 

166 

743 

9 

Wash i ngton 

1,026 

56 

101 

228 

1 ,412 

55 

West  Virginia 

24 

46 

23 

29 

121 

1 

Wi scons i n 

955 

523 

374 

413 

2,265 

81 

Wyoming 

216 

56 

37 

78 

387 

2 

United  States 

31,267 

9,848 

9,374 

12,740 

63,230 

4,377 

1/  Prior  to  1988,  Farm  Credit 

System  loans 

were  reported 

separately  for 

product i on 

credit 

association  and  Federal  intermediate  credit  bank  loans  through  other  financial  institutions. 


208 


Table  38--Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1991 


State 

Farm 
Credit 
System  1/ 

Farmers  Home 
Administration 

Life  insurance 
companies 

All 

operating 

banks 

Individuals  : 
and  others  : 

CCC  : 

storage  : 
and  drying  : 
loans  : 

Total 

Million  dollars 

Alabama 

210 

84 

47 

258 

105 

0 

703 

Alaska 

2 

0 

7 

2 

4 

0 

15 

Arizona 

101 

50 

207 

67 

129 

0 

552 

Arkansas 

476 

236 

294 

507 

184 

0 

1,697 

California 

2,641 

213 

2,467 

951 

1,243 

0 

7,514 

Colorado 

683 

91 

195 

197 

344 

0 

1,510 

Connect i cut 

46 

12 

0 

17 

15 

0 

90 

Delaware 

91 

10 

0 

26 

21 

0 

148 

Florida 

599 

101 

876 

695 

315 

0 

2,585 

Georgia 

593 

139 

126 

582 

151 

0 

1,590 

Hawai i 

52 

29 

29 

65 

9 

0 

185 

Idaho 

565 

201 

154 

35 

305 

0 

1,260 

Illinois 

1,322 

271 

405 

1,450 

829 

0 

4,277 

I ndi ana 

873 

210 

255 

831 

720 

0 

2,889 

Iowa 

1,334 

368 

526 

1,338 

1,880 

0 

5,447 

Kansas 

997 

226 

172 

664 

396 

0 

2,454 

Kentucky 

406 

233 

119 

673 

262 

0 

1,692 

Louisiana 

214 

114 

149 

183 

91 

0 

750 

Maine 

32 

46 

0 

7 

15 

0 

99 

Maryland 

323 

32 

11 

92 

112 

0 

569 

Massachusetts 

50 

24 

20 

8 

16 

0 

118 

Michigan 

634 

150 

38 

217 

352 

0 

1,391 

Minnesota 

1,237 

236 

206 

785 

985 

1 

3,450 

Mississippi 

229 

221 

296 

351 

144 

0 

1,241 

Missouri 

595 

304 

180 

1,006 

557 

0 

2,643 

Montana 

523 

168 

192 

159 

521 

0 

1,563 

Nebraska 

749 

311 

296 

770 

600 

0 

2,726 

Nevada 

67 

18 

31 

3 

51 

0 

169 

New  Hampshire 

14 

7 

0 

2 

8 

0 

31 

New  Jersey 

122 

25 

0 

24 

68 

0 

239 

New  Mexico 

209 

62 

60 

111 

134 

0 

576 

New  York 

338 

145 

6 

134 

221 

0 

843 

North  Carolina 

654 

195 

85 

435 

153 

0 

1,522 

North  Dakota 

754 

287 

33 

299 

287 

0 

1,660 

Ohio 

617 

151 

113 

608 

385 

0 

1,875 

Oklahoma 

581 

273 

152 

334 

323 

0 

1,663 

Oregon 

460 

100 

472 

74 

500 

0 

1,606 

Pennsylvania 

505 

117 

13 

458 

217 

0 

1,310 

Rhode  Island 

8 

3 

0 

1 

2 

0 

14 

South  Carolina 

299 

74 

15 

77 

53 

0 

519 

South  Dakota 

499 

332 

43 

221 

340 

0 

1,435 

T  ermessee 

292 

191 

46 

362 

145 

0 

1,036 

Texas 

1,899 

332 

538 

859 

960 

0 

4,589 

Utah 

126 

53 

9 

36 

130 

0 

354 

Vermont 

57 

41 

0 

48 

29 

0 

175 

Virginia 

662 

80 

99 

214 

140 

0 

1,195 

Washington 

435 

135 

311 

197 

354 

0 

1,432 

West  Virginia 

80 

41 

76 

59 

22 

0 

277 

Wisconsin 

740 

220 

58 

793 

590 

0 

2,400 

Wyoming 

169 

40 

71 

32 

119 

0 

431 

United  States 

25,160 

7,001 

9,494 

17,315 

15,537 

4 

74,511 

1/  Federal  land  banks  debt  prior  to  1988. 


209 


Table  39--Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1991 


State 

All  : 

operating  : 
banks  : 

Farm  :  Farmers  : 

Credit  :  Home  Ad-  : 

System  1/  :  ministration  : 

Debt  owed 
to  individ¬ 
uals  and 
others 

T  ota  l 

:  CCC 

:  crop 

:  loans 

Alabama 

237 

158 

Million  dol lars 

86  217 

698 

41 

Alaska 

5 

0 

0 

2 

8 

0 

Ari zona 

374 

99 

101 

161 

734 

41 

Arkansas 

591 

221 

276 

319 

1,407 

357 

Cal i f orni a 

2,865 

1,145 

436 

1,088 

5,533 

243 

Colorado 

641 

176 

67 

437 

1 ,320 

36 

Connect i cut 

15 

64 

7 

26 

112 

0 

Delaware 

43 

48 

5 

57 

152 

1 

Florida 

312 

211 

153 

284 

960 

1 

Georg i a 

352 

210 

310 

290 

1,162 

28 

Hawai  i 

23 

39 

11 

30 

103 

0 

Idaho 

723 

152 

128 

200 

1,203 

21 

Illinois 

2,060 

225 

174 

555 

3,014 

230 

I ndi ana 

908 

212 

150 

387 

1,658 

142 

I  owa 

3,027 

222 

304 

835 

4,389 

357 

Kansas 

2,022 

175 

145 

705 

3,047 

52 

Kentucky 

459 

252 

146 

185 

1,041 

24 

Loui s i ana 

267 

126 

425 

138 

956 

216 

Maine 

25 

55 

55 

39 

174 

0 

Maryland 

47 

189 

17 

118 

370 

7 

Massachusetts 

71 

68 

14 

25 

178 

0 

Michigan 

392 

326 

205 

241 

1,164 

50 

Minnesota 

1,841 

435 

295 

561 

3,133 

333 

Mississippi 

361 

167 

504 

186 

1,218 

292 

Missouri 

1,144 

198 

236 

338 

1,916 

101 

Montana 

498 

59 

225 

124 

906 

52 

Nebraska 

2,620 

224 

201 

824 

3,868 

209 

Nevada 

15 

34 

8 

20 

76 

0 

New  Hampshire 

1 

19 

5 

10 

35 

0 

New  Jersey 

43 

84 

31 

38 

196 

2 

New  Mexico 

216 

95 

45 

131 

487 

4 

New  York 

334 

399 

207 

220 

1,160 

19 

North  Carolina 

250 

424 

139 

363 

1,176 

25 

North  Dakota 

778 

290 

396 

201 

1,666 

168 

Oh  i  o 

509 

299 

143 

324 

1,274 

83 

Oklahoma 

1,240 

137 

346 

292 

2,015 

9 

Oregon 

471 

168 

79 

147 

865 

5 

Pennsy l vani a 

254 

389 

111 

294 

1,047 

3 

Rhode  Island 

0 

17 

2 

3 

22 

0 

South  Carolina 

70 

91 

129 

95 

386 

12 

South  Dakota 

1 ,193 

191 

354 

237 

1,975 

102 

T  ennessee 

287 

262 

198 

205 

952 

100 

T  exas 

2,606 

729 

719 

1,005 

5,059 

132 

Utah 

154 

58 

34 

60 

305 

2 

Vermont 

32 

79 

16 

38 

165 

0 

Vi rgini a 

168 

276 

112 

170 

726 

10 

Wash i ngton 

1,030 

74 

89 

233 

1,425 

18 

West  Virginia 

21 

46 

22 

29 

117 

0 

Wisconsin 

1,011 

534 

321 

421 

2,287 

49 

Wyomi ng 

248 

72 

32 

80 

432 

2 

United  States 

32,854 

10,222 

8,213 

12,985 

64,274 

3,579 

1/  Prior  to  1988,  Farm  Credit 

System  loans 

were  reported 

separately  for 

product i on 

credi t 

association  and  Federal  intermediate  credit  bank  loans  through  other  financial  institutions. 


210 


Table  40--Real  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1992 


State 

Farm 

Credi t 
System  1/ 

Farmers  Home 
Adnini  strati  on 

Life  insurance 
companies 

All 

operat  i  ng 
banks 

Individuals  : 
and  others  : 

CCC  : 

storage  : 
and  drying  : 
loans  : 

Total 

Million  dollars 

Alabama 

199 

74 

44 

269 

108 

0 

694 

Alaska 

2 

0 

2 

2 

4 

0 

11 

Arizona 

94 

46 

195 

37 

133 

0 

505 

Arkansas 

501 

208 

292 

575 

190 

0 

1,766 

California 

2,655 

207 

2,328 

1,103 

1,279 

0 

7,571 

Colorado 

684 

82 

170 

192 

355 

0 

1,484 

Connect i cut 

49 

11 

0 

12 

16 

0 

87 

Delaware 

101 

8 

0 

42 

21 

0 

173 

Florida 

551 

92 

933 

713 

325 

0 

2,613 

Georgia 

550 

116 

120 

697 

156 

0 

1,638 

Hawai i 

58 

29 

23 

56 

9 

0 

175 

Idaho 

584 

179 

169 

32 

315 

0 

1,278 

Illinois 

1,387 

249 

343 

1,564 

854 

0 

4,396 

Indiana 

880 

187 

231 

900 

741 

0 

2,939 

Iowa 

1,309 

342 

458 

1,526 

1,935 

0 

5,570 

Kansas 

999 

208 

141 

728 

408 

0 

2,484 

Kentucky 

385 

214 

112 

705 

270 

0 

1,686 

Louisiana 

212 

98 

129 

190 

93 

0 

723 

Maine 

33 

43 

10 

5 

15 

0 

107 

Maryland 

345 

29 

9 

99 

116 

0 

597 

Massachusetts 

53 

22 

19 

10 

17 

0 

122 

Michigan 

638 

139 

66 

227 

365 

0 

1,434 

Minnesota 

1,197 

217 

193 

873 

1,019 

0 

3,499 

Mississippi 

226 

196 

231 

383 

149 

0 

1,185 

Missouri 

632 

271 

170 

1,072 

573 

0 

2,720 

Montana 

522 

155 

171 

182 

537 

0 

1,566 

Nebraska 

830 

284 

290 

877 

619 

0 

2,900 

Nevada 

67 

16 

28 

2 

52 

0 

166 

New  Hampshire 

15 

7 

0 

1 

8 

0 

31 

New  Jersey 

130 

25 

0 

29 

70 

0 

254 

New  Mexico 

207 

56 

60 

102 

138 

0 

563 

New  York 

359 

134 

5 

143 

227 

0 

869 

North  Carolina 

608 

166 

76 

378 

158 

0 

1,387 

North  Dakota 

708 

264 

29 

316 

296 

0 

1,613 

Ohio 

647 

135 

111 

630 

396 

0 

1,919 

Oklahoma 

559 

246 

88 

377 

331 

0 

1,601 

Oregon 

472 

93 

385 

77 

514 

0 

1,541 

Pennsylvania 

506 

107 

9 

510 

222 

0 

1,355 

Rhode  Island 

9 

3 

0 

1 

2 

0 

15 

South  Carolina 

282 

68 

12 

77 

55 

0 

495 

South  Dakota 

471 

310 

45 

243 

351 

0 

1,420 

Tennessee 

349 

163 

24 

370 

150 

0 

1,056 

Texas 

1,902 

311 

424 

866 

985 

0 

4,489 

Utah 

111 

50 

9 

48 

134 

0 

352 

Vermont 

61 

39 

0 

31 

30 

0 

161 

Vi rginia 

725 

71 

49 

235 

144 

0 

1,224 

Washington 

470 

122 

322 

191 

364 

0 

1,469 

West  Virginia 

85 

38 

80 

63 

23 

0 

290 

Wisconsin 

704 

194 

52 

846 

610 

0 

2,407 

Wyoming 

145 

35 

58 

49 

122 

0 

411 

United  States 

25,271 

6,361 

8,718 

18,659 

16,003 

2 

75,014 

1/  Federal  land  banks  debt  prior  to  1988. 


211 


Table  41--Nonreal  estate  farm  business  debt,  December  31,  1992 


State 

All  : 

operating  : 
banks  : 

Farm 
Credi t 
System  1/ 

Farmers 

Home  Ad- 
mi  ni  strat i on 

Debt  owed 
to  individ¬ 
uals  and 
others 

Total  : 

CCC 

crop 

loans 

Alabama 

250 

235 

Million 

67 

dollars 

221 

772 

37 

Alaska 

4 

30 

0 

2 

36 

0 

Arizona 

330 

80 

93 

164 

667 

71 

Arkansas 

578 

198 

239 

325 

1,340 

514 

Cal i f orni a 

2,877 

1,118 

388 

1,108 

5,492 

387 

Colorado 

630 

164 

61 

445 

1,301 

41 

Connect i cut 

11 

68 

7 

26 

112 

0 

Delaware 

46 

47 

4 

58 

154 

2 

Florida 

337 

244 

139 

289 

1,009 

2 

Georgia 

358 

246 

241 

295 

1,141 

31 

Hawai  i 

47 

31 

12 

31 

120 

0 

Idaho 

724 

150 

112 

204 

1,189 

23 

Illinois 

2,024 

217 

160 

566 

2,967 

453 

I ndi ana 

860 

198 

129 

394 

1,581 

229 

I  owa 

3,065 

211 

252 

851 

4,379 

612 

Kansas 

2,043 

191 

130 

718 

3,082 

59 

Kentucky 

456 

223 

123 

188 

990 

38 

Louisiana 

277 

208 

355 

141 

980 

221 

Mai  ne 

29 

58 

53 

40 

180 

0 

Maryland 

46 

183 

16 

120 

365 

12 

Massachusetts 

66 

72 

14 

26 

177 

0 

Mich i gan 

398 

336 

188 

245 

1,167 

32 

Minnesota 

1,939 

442 

255 

572 

3,209 

389 

Mississippi 

387 

228 

422 

189 

1,227 

258 

Missouri 

1,142 

166 

194 

344 

1,846 

175 

Montana 

502 

56 

197 

126 

882 

52 

Nebraska 

2,697 

247 

172 

839 

3,956 

250 

Nevada 

14 

30 

8 

20 

72 

0 

New  Hampshire 

0 

20 

5 

10 

36 

0 

New  Jersey 

41 

89 

32 

39 

201 

2 

New  Mexico 

207 

102 

41 

134 

484 

6 

New  York 

375 

421 

196 

224 

1,216 

9 

North  Carolina 

285 

467 

115 

369 

1,236 

30 

North  Dakota 

804 

298 

341 

205 

1,649 

166 

Ohi  o 

483 

289 

117 

330 

1,219 

112 

Oklahoma 

1,253 

134 

303 

298 

1,988 

16 

Oregon 

392 

142 

72 

150 

756 

6 

Pennsy l vani a 

232 

375 

116 

299 

1,022 

10 

Rhode  Island 

0 

18 

2 

3 

23 

0 

South  Carolina 

65 

105 

114 

97 

381 

11 

South  Dakota 

1,269 

185 

308 

242 

2,003 

116 

Tennessee 

278 

280 

153 

209 

920 

148 

Texas 

2,507 

627 

653 

1,024 

4,811 

174 

Utah 

148 

55 

36 

61 

299 

2 

Vermont 

18 

83 

17 

38 

156 

0 

Virginia 

149 

265 

99 

173 

685 

15 

Wash i ngton 

940 

83 

76 

237 

1,336 

21 

West  Virginia 

19 

43 

22 

30 

113 

1 

Wisconsin 

1,056 

527 

269 

429 

2,281 

36 

Wyomi ng 

251 

61 

28 

81 

421 

2 

United  States 

32,912 

10,346 

7,143 

13,230 

63,631 

4,771 

1/  Prior  to  1988,  Farm  Credit  System  loans  were  reported  separately  for  production  credit 
association  and  Federal  intermediate  credit  bank  loans  through  other  financial  institutions. 


212 


Table  42--Farm  financial  ratios,  1988 


State 

Liquidity 

Efficiency 

Farm  business 
debt  service 
coverage 

:  Debt 

: servicing 

:  Times 
: interest 
:  earned 

Gross  : 
ratio  : 

Interest  to 
gross  cash 
farm  income 

:  Asset  : 

:  turnover  : 

Net  cash 
farm  income 
to  debt 

: Leverage 
:  i ndex 

Rat  i  o 

Ratio 

Alabama 

3.45 

0.11 

6.30 

65.6 

5.1 

29.2 

62.0 

0.89 

Alaska 

2.94 

0.17 

5.06 

57.0 

8.2 

6.3 

45.7 

0.49 

Arizona 

2.61 

0.18 

5.61 

60.8 

7.7 

19.9 

55.2 

0.93 

Arkansas 

2.65 

0.14 

5.36 

69.6 

6.2 

31.5 

50.6 

0.98 

California 

2.93 

0.15 

6.04 

63.0 

6.8 

26.3 

56.0 

0.98 

Colorado 

1.69 

0.16 

3.52 

80.5 

7.3 

27.3 

33.4 

0.72 

Connecticut 

4.67 

0.10 

10.18 

58.6 

4.0 

13.0 

84.7 

0.90 

Delaware 

3.82 

0.09 

7.68 

71.3 

3.8 

52.0 

74.9 

1.06 

Florida 

4.88 

0.11 

9.35 

50.5 

5.5 

25.5 

85.8 

1.02 

Georgia 

2.56 

0.16 

5.05 

65.7 

7.2 

28.6 

45.7 

0.89 

Hawa i i 

2.77 

0.11 

5.28 

74.4 

5.5 

18.7 

44.6 

0.85 

Idaho 

1.93 

0.20 

3.94 

71.0 

9.0 

25.2 

35.9 

0.83 

I l l inoi s 

1.69 

0.20 

2.54 

76.3 

9.7 

17.5 

20.9 

0.52 

Indiana 

1.64 

0.20 

1.99 

76.6 

9.8 

20.4 

16.1 

-0.22 

Iowa 

1.90 

0.19 

3.17 

73.1 

9.1 

24.0 

28.2 

0.71 

Kansas 

1.98 

0.16 

3.86 

75.7 

7.1 

29.0 

35.5 

0.76 

Kentucky 

2.29 

0.19 

3.97 

64.4 

9.1 

17.7 

37.2 

-0.65 

Louisiana 

2.13 

0.22 

3.85 

62.6 

9.3 

21.7 

35.6 

0.87 

Maine 

2.28 

0.17 

4.94 

67.9 

6.5 

24.9 

39.7 

0.20 

Maryland 

3.03 

0.12 

5.49 

68.0 

5.7 

22.4 

50.7 

0.78 

Massachusetts 

4.18 

0.12 

9.40 

55.8 

4.6 

11.9 

80.9 

0.85 

Michigan 

2.03 

0.19 

3.32 

69.6 

8.7 

24.1 

25.1 

-1.22 

Minnesota 

2.28 

0.20 

3.36 

64.4 

9.1 

25.5 

31.2 

0.45 

Mississippi 

1.82 

0.23 

3.79 

68.5 

9.7 

24.6 

35.1 

0.85 

Missouri 

1.80 

0.22 

2.70 

71.1 

10.1 

17.9 

24.8 

-0.63 

Montana 

1.48 

0.30 

1.99 

69.8 

14.2 

12.0 

16.3 

-0.01 

Nebraska 

2.19 

0.15 

4.70 

73.7 

6.9 

30.5 

45.2 

0.93 

Nevada 

1.94 

0.23 

3.16 

66.6 

11.4 

8.3 

28.6 

0.37 

New  Hampshire 

4.79 

0.09 

10.22 

60.2 

3.9 

11.8 

85.8 

na 

New  Jersey 

4.49 

0.10 

8.49 

58.1 

4.6 

9.9 

70.5 

0.80 

New  Mexico 

1.94 

0.15 

3.82 

77.2 

7.2 

15.1 

36.0 

0.72 

New  York 

2.47 

0.17 

4.21 

65.0 

7.0 

24.7 

33.6 

na 

North  Carolina 

3.84 

0.11 

7.78 

61.4 

5.1 

33.1 

72.8 

1.02 

North  Dakota 

1.88 

0.25 

1.88 

64.6 

10.9 

17.5 

14.8 

-0.18 

Ohio 

2.75 

0.15 

4.07 

65.1 

7.3 

19.6 

37.1 

0.48 

Oklahoma 

1.61 

0.22 

3.28 

73.6 

9.8 

19.9 

30.1 

0.40 

Oregon 

2.49 

0.18 

4.63 

63.7 

8.4 

23.0 

38.8 

0.76 

Pennsylvania 

2.97 

0.13 

4.74 

66.5 

5.9 

20.4 

41.4 

na 

Rhode  Island 

na 

0.06 

na 

39.2 

2.8 

18.9 

na 

1.00 

South  Carolina 

2.31 

0.18 

4.39 

67.0 

8.0 

21.5 

39.0 

0.70 

South  Dakota 

2.41 

0.20 

3.82 

59.4 

8.7 

21.2 

33.7 

0.68 

Tennessee 

2.10 

0.19 

3.53 

68.4 

8.3 

15.6 

31.3 

na 

Texas 

1.70 

0.19 

3.23 

75.9 

8.6 

15.4 

29.8 

0.49 

Utah 

2.28 

0.20 

4.16 

64.2 

8.8 

14.7 

37.1 

0.54 

Vermont 

2.87 

0.15 

5.20 

64.5 

6.3 

19.5 

42.8 

0.18 

Virginia 

2.40 

0.17 

4.04 

66.7 

7.8 

16.7 

37.3 

0.53 

Washington 

2.45 

0.16 

4.57 

68.7 

7.1 

26.6 

41.2 

0.85 

West  Virginia 

1.89 

0.19 

2.63 

72.7 

8.5 

12.3 

19.5 

1.40 

Wisconsin 

2.24 

0.19 

3.40 

65.0 

8.7 

26.1 

27.9 

na 

Wyoming 

1.37 

0.21 

2.56 

80.5 

9.4 

13.0 

22.1 

0.09 

United  States 

2.27 

0.17 

4.06 

68.5 

7.9 

22.0 

36.9 

0.71 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


213 


Table  42--Farm  financial  ratios,  1988- -continued 


Solvency 


Prof itabi lity 


State 

Debt 

to 

assets 

Debt 

to 

equi ty 

Rates  of  return 
on  assets  from-- 

Rates  of  return 
on  equity  from-- 

Net  farm 
income  to 
gross  cash 
farm  income 

Current 

income 

Real  : 

capital  : 
gains  : 

Total 

Current 

income 

Real  : 

capital  : 
gains  : 

Total 

Percent 

Alabama 

15.2 

17.9 

6.0 

-1.6 

4.4 

5.3 

-1.1 

4.2 

28.5 

Alaska 

5.7 

6.0 

1.0 

-2.0 

-1.0 

0.5 

-1.9 

-1.4 

32.4 

Ari zona 

15.2 

17.9 

7.1 

-4.3 

2.8 

6.6 

-4.3 

2.3 

34.9 

Arkansas 

19.8 

24.7 

8.7 

-3.9 

4.8 

8.5 

-3.8 

4.7 

26.8 

California 

18.4 

22.5 

8.7 

0.6 

9.3 

8.6 

1.7 

10.3 

33.4 

Colorado 

19.6 

24.4 

4.7 

-3.8 

0.9 

3.4 

-3.7 

-0.3 

17.2 

Connecticut 

6.9 

7.4 

3.2 

-7.1 

-3.8 

2.9 

-7.3 

-4.4 

36.2 

Delaware 

20.0 

25.1 

12.6 

8.0 

20.6 

13.4 

11.2 

24.5 

26.0 

F l or i da 

14.9 

17.5 

10.7 

1.4 

12.1 

10.9 

2.4 

13.3 

45.4 

Georgia 

20.9 

26.5 

6.7 

1.6 

8.3 

5.9 

3.3 

9.2 

28.2 

Hawai i 

10.4 

11.6 

4.3 

-2.2 

2.2 

3.7 

-1.9 

1.8 

20.1 

Idaho 

22.5 

29.0 

6.1 

1.6 

7.8 

5.1 

3.4 

8.5 

24.9 

I l linois 

15.8 

18.7 

3.0 

3.2 

6.2 

1.6 

4.6 

6.2 

9.9 

Indiana 

19.6 

24.3 

1.7 

1.0 

2.7 

-0.4 

2.3 

1.9 

6.2 

Iowa 

20.0 

25.1 

4.9 

8.7 

13.6 

3.5 

12.2 

15.7 

16.3 

Kansas 

19.7 

24.5 

5.2 

0.6 

5.8 

4.0 

1.8 

5.8 

17.8 

Kentucky 

16.8 

20.1 

1.0 

-1.8 

-0.8 

-0.7 

-1.3 

-2.0 

27.1 

Louisiana 

21.1 

26.7 

6.3 

-2.8 

3.5 

5.5 

-2.4 

3.1 

26.3 

Maine 

17.6 

21.3 

1.9 

15.9 

17.8 

0.4 

20.5 

20.9 

23.5 

Maryland 

13.6 

15.8 

3.9 

2.8 

6.7 

3.0 

3.9 

7.0 

25.7 

Massachusetts 

6.0 

6.4 

2.7 

-0.7 

2.0 

2.3 

-0.5 

1.8 

37.1 

M i ch i gan 

21.5 

27.3 

1.1 

-2.1 

-1.1 

-1.3 

-1.6 

-2.9 

14.4 

Minnesota 

22.2 

28.5 

3.6 

2.1 

5.7 

1.6 

4.0 

5.6 

19.4 

Mississippi 

25.1 

33.4 

6.4 

-2.3 

4.1 

5.5 

-1.7 

3.8 

27.3 

Missouri 

18.0 

21.9 

1.2 

-0.6 

0.6 

-0.8 

0.3 

-0.5 

15.8 

Montana 

16.9 

20.3 

1.7 

0.2 

1.9 

0.0 

1.2 

1.2 

10.1 

Nebraska 

19.3 

23.9 

8.0 

6.6 

14.6 

7.4 

9.4 

16.8 

23.4 

Nevada 

10.1 

11.3 

1.4 

-16.4 

15.0 

0.5 

-17.7 

17.2 

23.1 

New  Hampshire 

4.7 

5.0 

-0.1 

11.7 

11.6 

-0.6 

12.5 

12.0 

33.6 

New  Jersey 

5.1 

5.4 

1.9 

8.8 

10.7 

1.5 

9.5 

11.1 

33.8 

New  Mexico 

10.9 

12.2 

3.0 

-0.4 

2.5 

2.1 

0.0 

2.1 

19.8 

New  York 

18.1 

22.1 

0.1 

1.6 

1.7 

-2.0 

3.0 

1.0 

18.7 

North  Carolina 

17.5 

21.2 

10.0 

-1.4 

8.6 

10.1 

-0.7 

9.4 

35.0 

North  Dakota 

19.0 

23.5 

1.7 

0.0 

1.6 

-0.3 

1.0 

0.7 

6.0 

Ohio 

14.1 

16.5 

2.4 

1.0 

3.4 

1.1 

1.8 

3.0 

20.1 

Oklahoma 

19.4 

24.1 

2.9 

1.6 

4.4 

1.2 

3.0 

4.2 

21.0 

Oregon 

22.2 

28.6 

4.7 

-6.0 

-1.2 

3.6 

-6.5 

-2.9 

29.2 

Pennsylvania 

12.6 

14.4 

-1.1 

8.7 

7.7 

-2.6 

10.7 

8.0 

20.7 

Rhode  Island 

5.9 

6.3 

8.5 

1.2 

9.8 

8.5 

1.6 

10.1 

57.2 

South  Carolina 

17.3 

20.9 

4.0 

0.2 

4.2 

2.8 

1.3 

4.1 

26.3 

South  Dakota 

18.2 

22.3 

4.1 

5.2 

9.3 

2.8 

7.4 

10.2 

22.0 

Tennessee 

14.0 

16.3 

0.0 

-3.5 

-3.5 

-1.5 

-3.4 

-4.9 

20.2 

Texas 

13.2 

15.1 

2.3 

-8.4 

-6.1 

1.1 

-9.0 

-7.9 

17.0 

Utah 

14.0 

16.3 

2.4 

-4.7 

-2.3 

1.3 

-4.7 

-3.5 

26.6 

Vermont 

13.4 

15.5 

1.5 

11.3 

12.8 

0.3 

13.8 

14.1 

24.4 

Vi rginia 

13.9 

16.1 

2.4 

3.5 

5.9 

1.3 

4.7 

6.0 

23.5 

Washington 

19.3 

24.0 

5.8 

-0.7 

5.1 

4.9 

0.2 

5.1 

24.2 

West  Virginia 

14.6 

17.1 

-4.8 

-4.8 

-9.6 

-6.7 

-5.0 

11.7 

12.4 

Wisconsin 

23.0 

29.9 

0.6 

0.3 

0.9 

-2.2 

1.7 

-0.6 

16.7 

Wyoming 

12.2 

13.9 

1.3 

-5.3 

-4.0 

0.1 

-5.5 

-5.4 

12.0 

United  States 

17.4 

21.1 

4.2 

0.3 

4.4 

2.9 

1.2 

4.2 

22.4 

See  illustration  8  in  text  for  definitions  of  ratios. 

na  =  not  appropriate  because  the  relative  magnitude  of  the  numerator  and  denominator  yields  unrealistic  results. 


214 


Table  43--Farm  financial  ratios,  1989 


State 

Liquidity 

: 

Efficiency 

Farm  business 
debt  service 
coverage 

:  Debt 

: servicing 

:  Times 
: interest 
:  earned 

:  Gross  : 

:  ratio  : 

Interest  to  :  Asset  : 
gross  cash  : turnover  : 
farm  income  :  : 

Net  cash 
farm  income 
to  debt 

: Leverage 
:  index 

Ratio 

Ratio 

Alabama 

4.05 

0.10 

7.43 

63.5 

4.6 

30.9 

74.7 

0.92 

Alaska 

2.35 

0.20 

4.02 

63.1 

10.0 

5.6 

36.7 

-0.60 

Arizona 

2.63 

0.18 

5.45 

60.7 

7.8 

20.3 

54.6 

0.92 

Arkansas 

2.67 

0.13 

4.79 

71.9 

6.0 

34.1 

49.1 

0.92 

Cali fornia 

3.10 

0.13 

6.38 

64.3 

5.9 

27.7 

57.5 

0.98 

Colorado 

2.12 

0.15 

4.06 

75.2 

6.8 

28.4 

39.0 

0.81 

Connecticut 

4.26 

0.10 

8.98 

60.7 

4.4 

13.7 

78.3 

0.87 

Delaware 

4.14 

0.08 

8.46 

71.8 

3.3 

52.1 

79.9 

1.06 

Florida 

5.07 

0.11 

9.54 

51.5 

5.2 

25.7 

89.5 

1.02 

Georgia 

2.98 

0.14 

5.93 

64.3 

6.3 

29.7 

55.7 

0.93 

Hawa i i 

2.53 

0.11 

5.02 

77.3 

5.4 

18.1 

39.4 

0.79 

Idaho 

2.60 

0.17 

5.74 

64.6 

7.4 

26.8 

53.2 

0.97 

I l linois 

1.36 

0.19 

4.22 

83.0 

9.1 

16.8 

37.0 

0.88 

Indiana 

1.42 

0.20 

3.46 

81.3 

9.4 

19.4 

30.5 

0.74 

Iowa 

1.57 

0.19 

3.90 

78.6 

9.0 

21.5 

34.5 

0.80 

Kansas 

1.67 

0.16 

3.07 

80.3 

7.1 

26.8 

26.6 

0.43 

Kentucky 

3.05 

0.16 

5.47 

57.7 

7.5 

19.2 

51.5 

0.59 

Louisiana 

1.73 

0.22 

3.43 

71.5 

9.5 

21.4 

32.7 

0.77 

Ma  i  ne 

2.40 

0.16 

5.91 

68.6 

5.8 

23.7 

46.9 

0.30 

Maryland 

3.06 

0.12 

5.67 

68.8 

5.4 

23.7 

50.2 

0.78 

Massachusetts 

4.00 

0.12 

8.80 

58.2 

4.7 

12.2 

74.3 

0.82 

Michigan 

2.17 

0.17 

4.99 

70.5 

7.7 

24.9 

40.5 

0.48 

Minnesota 

2.02 

0.19 

4.52 

69.7 

8.8 

23.4 

42.7 

0.76 

Mississippi 

1.65 

0.21 

3.07 

74.4 

9.6 

24.8 

29.6 

0.60 

Missouri 

1.72 

0.21 

3.19 

73.8 

9.7 

17.3 

29.7 

-0.12 

Montana 

1.46 

0.27 

3.44 

72.8 

12.6 

11.5 

29.3 

0.68 

Nebraska 

2.26 

0.15 

4.66 

73.6 

6.5 

29.1 

43.4 

0.87 

Nevada 

1.89 

0.21 

4.88 

70.4 

10.1 

9.5 

43.7 

0.77 

New  Hampshire 

3.89 

0.10 

7.46 

67.0 

4.0 

11.1 

55.6 

1.29 

New  Jersey 

4.35 

0.10 

8.74 

60.8 

4.4 

9.6 

70.3 

0.79 

New  Mexico 

2.55 

0.14 

4.88 

71.2 

6.4 

16.1 

46.9 

0.80 

New  York 

2.57 

0.15 

5.15 

67.2 

6.0 

26.2 

40.2 

-0.69 

North  Carolina 

4.62 

0.10 

8.96 

57.7 

4.6 

36.1 

86.3 

1.04 

North  Dakota 

1.24 

0.28 

3.17 

77.7 

11.9 

14.4 

26.7 

0.66 

Ohio 

2.73 

0.15 

5.32 

66.6 

6.9 

19.6 

49.6 

0.77 

Oklahoma 

1.69 

0.22 

3.74 

72.9 

9.5 

19.8 

34.9 

0.50 

Oregon 

2.48 

0.16 

4.91 

66.8 

7.6 

23.6 

39.9 

0.73 

Pennsylvania 

2.99 

0.12 

5.74 

68.9 

5.3 

21.1 

49.2 

na 

Rhode  Island 

na 

0.07 

na 

44.6 

3.0 

17.6 

na 

0.97 

South  Carolina 

2.83 

0.15 

5.09 

65.0 

6.6 

23.0 

47.2 

0.74 

South  Dakota 

2.20 

0.20 

4.93 

63.7 

8.6 

18.5 

43.2 

0.83 

Tennessee 

2.32 

0.19 

3.79 

64.9 

8.4 

15.5 

34.5 

na 

Texas 

2.07 

0.18 

3.41 

71.4 

7.9 

16.8 

32.5 

0.48 

Utah 

2.46 

0.18 

4.28 

63.0 

8.4 

15.7 

39.3 

0.51 

Vermont 

2.71 

0.14 

5.08 

67.8 

6.0 

19.2 

40.1 

-1.82 

Vi rginia 

2.66 

0.17 

4.82 

63.3 

7.7 

16.0 

45.0 

0.68 

Washington 

2.72 

0.14 

5.69 

68.0 

6.1 

28.1 

49.5 

0.93 

West  Virginia 

2.04 

0.20 

2.61 

68.7 

10.0 

13.6 

23.7 

1.55 

Wisconsin 

2.44 

0.17 

5.22 

65.7 

7.4 

27.6 

45.4 

0.69 

Wyoming 

2.02 

0.18 

2.64 

71.2 

8.0 

14.3 

22.3 

-0.30 

United  States 

2.32 

0.16 

4.75 

69.6 

7.4 

22.1 

43.4 

0.79 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


215 


Table  43--Farm  financial  ratios,  1989- -continued 


Solvency 


Prof itabi lity 


Rates  of  return 


Rates  of  return 


State 

Debt 

to 

assets 

Debt  : 

on 

assets  from-- 

:  on  equity  from-- 

:  Net  farm 

to  : 

equity  : 

Current 

income 

Real 
capi tal 
gains 

Total 

:  Current 
:  i  ncome 

:  Real 
:  capital 
:  gains 

Total 

:  income  to 
:  gross  cash 
:  farm  income 

Percent 

Alabama 

14.0 

16.2 

6.6 

0.5 

7.1 

6.1 

1.4 

7.4 

30.5 

Alaska 

5.3 

5.6 

0.4 

-1.8 

-1.4 

-0.2 

-1.6 

-1.8 

26.2 

Arizona 

15.8 

18.8 

7.1 

-6.4 

0.7 

6.5 

-6.7 

-0.1 

33.9 

Arkansas 

19.8 

24.6 

7.8 

-6.5 

1.4 

7.2 

-6.9 

0.3 

22.5 

California 

17.9 

21.8 

8.4 

0.2 

8.6 

8.2 

1.3 

9.5 

31.7 

Colorado 

19.4 

24.1 

5.6 

-3.8 

1.8 

4.5 

-3.6 

0.9 

20.0 

Connecticut 

6.3 

6.7 

3.2 

-2.2 

1.0 

2.8 

-2.0 

0.7 

33.3 

Delaware 

18.0 

22.0 

12.2 

5.6 

17.7 

12.9 

7.9 

20.8 

25.8 

F l or i da 

13.8 

16.0 

10.6 

5.3 

15.9 

10.8 

7.0 

17.8 

44.8 

Georgia 

18.8 

23.1 

7.4 

-0.2 

7.2 

6.9 

1.0 

7.8 

30.9 

Hawai i 

9.7 

10.7 

3.4 

-1.0 

2.3 

2.7 

-0.6 

2.0 

16.4 

Idaho 

19.7 

24.5 

8.6 

6.4 

14.9 

8.3 

9.3 

17.7 

34.3 

I llinois 

15.1 

17.7 

6.0 

-2.4 

3.5 

5.2 

-2.0 

3.2 

24.7 

Indiana 

18.6 

22.8 

4.5 

-2.1 

2.4 

3.3 

-1.5 

1.8 

20.5 

Iowa 

19.6 

24.3 

5.4 

-2.2 

3.3 

4.4 

-1.6 

2.8 

22.9 

Kansas 

18.7 

22.9 

2.9 

2.2 

5.1 

1.3 

3.8 

5.1 

11.9 

Kentucky 

15.0 

17.6 

2.9 

4.1 

7.0 

1.7 

5.7 

7.5 

34.9 

Louisiana 

20.7 

26.1 

5.2 

-5.1 

0.1 

4.0 

-5.2 

-1.2 

22.4 

Maine 

15.5 

18.3 

1.8 

-2.0 

-0.2 

0.5 

-1.5 

-0.9 

26.7 

Maryland 

15.1 

17.8 

3.8 

-3.3 

0.5 

3.0 

-3.1 

-0.1 

25.0 

Massachusetts 

6.6 

7.1 

2.4 

-2.1 

0.3 

2.0 

-1.9 

0.0 

33.8 

M  i  ch i gan 

19.2 

23.7 

3.1 

0.8 

3.9 

1.5 

2.2 

3.7 

25.4 

Minnesota 

20.0 

25.0 

5.2 

4.0 

9.1 

3.9 

6.3 

10.2 

29.6 

Mississippi 

23.1 

30.0 

4.3 

-0.6 

3.7 

2.6 

0.7 

3.3 

19.1 

Missouri 

16.8 

20.2 

1.5 

-1.8 

-0.3 

-0.2 

-1.2 

-1.4 

20.1 

Montana 

14.8 

17.3 

3.4 

7.4 

10.8 

2.3 

9.6 

11.9 

27.5 

Nebraska 

18.2 

22.3 

6.5 

1.1 

7.7 

5.7 

2.5 

8.2 

21.5 

Nevada 

10.8 

12.1 

3.1 

-15.7 

-12.7 

2.4 

-17.0 

-14.7 

38.1 

New  Hampshire 

5.2 

5.5 

-2.0 

-2.3 

-4.3 

-2.6 

-2.2 

-4.8 

20.9 

New  Jersey 

5.1 

5.3 

1.7 

-1.0 

0.7 

1.4 

-0.8 

0.5 

32.7 

New  Mexico 

10.3 

11.5 

3.6 

-3.4 

0.3 

2.9 

-3.2 

-0.3 

24.4 

New  York 

19.3 

23.9 

1.0 

-2.4 

-1.4 

-0.7 

-1.9 

-2.6 

22.6 

North  Carolina 

17.5 

21.2 

11.5 

-5.2 

6.4 

12.0 

-5.3 

6.7 

37.3 

North  Dakota 

17.9 

21.8 

3.7 

0.4 

4.1 

2.4 

1.5 

4.0 

22.1 

Ohio 

13.7 

15.9 

3.9 

-3.5 

0.5 

3.0 

-3.3 

-0.3 

28.4 

Oklahoma 

19.0 

23.4 

3.1 

-6.2 

-3.0 

1.6 

-6.5 

-4.9 

24.4 

Oregon 

20.0 

25.0 

4.2 

2.5 

6.8 

3.1 

4.4 

7.6 

28.0 

Pennsylvania 

12.5 

14.2 

-0.2 

-4.0 

-4.2 

-1.5 

-3.9 

-5.4 

23.8 

Rhode  Island 

6.0 

6.4 

5.9 

-2.0 

3.9 

5.7 

-1.8 

3.9 

51.6 

South  Carolina 

15.7 

18.6 

4.0 

-5.4 

-1.4 

2.9 

-5.5 

-2.6 

27.2 

South  Dakota 

16.0 

19.0 

5.1 

7.8 

12.9 

4.3 

10.4 

14.6 

31.1 

Tennessee 

13.2 

15.2 

0.1 

-2.1 

-2.0 

-1.4 

-1.6 

-3.1 

21.9 

Texas 

12.7 

14.6 

2.3 

-5.6 

-3.3 

1.1 

-5.8 

-4.7 

17.1 

Utah 

13.5 

15.6 

2.4 

-8.2 

-5.8 

1.2 

-8.7 

-7.5 

26.1 

Vermont 

13.5 

15.6 

0.4 

1.2 

1.7 

-0.8 

2.1 

1.3 

22.1 

Vi rginia 

12.3 

14.0 

3.0 

7.3 

10.3 

2.0 

9.0 

11.1 

29.0 

Washington 

18.8 

23.2 

6.9 

1.4 

8.3 

6.4 

2.8 

9.2 

27.5 

West  Virginia 

14.8 

17.3 

-4.2 

-13.4 

-17.6 

-6.5 

-14.9 

-21.4 

15.5 

Wisconsin 

21.6 

27.5 

4.4 

-1.7 

2.7 

3.1 

-0.9 

2.2 

29.3 

Wyoming 

11.5 

13.0 

0.9 

1.0 

1.9 

-0.3 

1.7 

1.5 

10.6 

United  States 

16.5 

19.8 

4.8 

-0.9 

3.9 

3.8 

-0.1 

3.6 

26.0 

See  illustration  8  in  text  for  definitions  of  ratios. 

na  =  not  appropriate  because  the  relative  magnitude  of  the  numerator  and  denominator  yields  unrealistic  results. 


216 


Table  44--Farm  financial  ratios,  1990 


State 

Liquidity 

: 

Efficiency 

Farm  business 
debt  service 
coverage 

:  Debt 

: servicing 

:  Times 
: interest 
:  earned 

:  Gross  : 

:  ratio  : 

Interest  to 
gross  cash 
farm  income 

:  Asset  : 

:  turnover  : 

Net  cash 
farm  income 
to  debt 

: Leverage 
:  i ndex 

Rat io  - - - -  - 

Rat  i  o 

Alabama 

4.12 

0.10 

7.71 

64.7 

4.3 

31.8 

77.2 

0.92 

Alaska 

2.13 

0.20 

3.52 

68.9 

10.4 

4.8 

32.8 

na 

Arizona 

2.40 

0.18 

5.27 

65.7 

7.8 

19.4 

54.4 

0.90 

Arkansas 

2.25 

0.13 

4.38 

77.0 

5.6 

33.2 

39.6 

0.88 

California 

3.09 

0.13 

6.60 

66.5 

5.2 

28.2 

53.7 

0.99 

Colorado 

2.33 

0.14 

4.66 

74.0 

6.2 

28.7 

44.7 

0.85 

Connecticut 

4.64 

0.09 

11.06 

60.7 

3.8 

15.7 

93.0 

0.93 

Delaware 

3.23 

0.09 

7.08 

75.9 

3.4 

47.3 

58.3 

1.03 

Florida 

4.21 

0.11 

8.00 

57.5 

5.5 

22.6 

70.9 

0.98 

Georgia 

2.97 

0.14 

5.54 

65.6 

6.1 

28.4 

51.7 

0.89 

Hawa i i 

1.94 

0.11 

4.45 

83.6 

5.2 

17.5 

29.7 

0.69 

Idaho 

2.60 

0.16 

6.20 

64.9 

7.0 

25.9 

55.2 

0.99 

Illinois 

1.77 

0.18 

3.66 

77.1 

8.3 

17.6 

30.1 

0.77 

Indiana 

1.82 

0.17 

3.15 

76.5 

8.2 

21.0 

26.6 

0.59 

Iowa 

1.88 

0.18 

4.09 

74.8 

7.9 

22.6 

34.5 

0.82 

Kansas 

1.96 

0.15 

4.62 

77.1 

6.3 

28.1 

40.1 

0.83 

Kentucky 

3.17 

0.15 

5.46 

58.5 

6.9 

19.4 

50.3 

0.51 

Louisiana 

1.84 

0.19 

3.21 

73.4 

8.2 

24.0 

30.5 

0.74 

Ma  i  ne 

2.95 

0.13 

7.29 

66.4 

4.9 

26.8 

56.8 

0.61 

Maryland 

2.86 

0.12 

5.85 

70.5 

5.1 

24.8 

46.6 

0.74 

Massachusetts 

3.40 

0.12 

8.81 

62.5 

4.4 

12.7 

60.1 

0.83 

Michigan 

2.13 

0.16 

4.37 

73.3 

7.1 

24.2 

32.9 

-1.66 

Minnesota 

2.01 

0.18 

4.49 

71.7 

8.2 

22.6 

41.3 

0.70 

Mississippi 

1.46 

0.20 

2.65 

79.8 

8.7 

24.3 

24.4 

0.36 

Missouri 

1.69 

0.21 

2.87 

74.7 

9.4 

16.7 

25.7 

-1.41 

Montana 

1.67 

0.25 

3.08 

69.6 

11.3 

11.4 

25.0 

0.51 

Nebraska 

2.20 

0.15 

5.63 

74.1 

6.2 

27.9 

50.1 

0.94 

Nevada 

3.06 

0.15 

4.83 

60.8 

7.3 

12.4 

43.3 

0.75 

New  Hampshire 

3.52 

0.09 

8.65 

70.7 

3.7 

12.0 

58.9 

1.46 

New  Jersey 

3.69 

0.10 

8.22 

66.2 

4.2 

9.2 

56.3 

0.68 

New  Mexico 

2.58 

0.14 

5.04 

70.8 

6.1 

14.8 

45.9 

0.81 

New  York 

2.48 

0.15 

5.29 

69.3 

5.5 

26.6 

37.3 

-1.09 

North  Carolina 

5.17 

0.09 

10.32 

55.5 

4.2 

39.1 

97.1 

1.07 

North  Dakota 

1.74 

0.23 

4.08 

70.2 

9.5 

16.0 

33.4 

0.81 

Ohio 

2.99 

0.14 

5.37 

65.9 

6.2 

20.7 

49.0 

0.72 

Oklahoma 

1.78 

0.21 

4.08 

72.3 

8.8 

20.1 

37.4 

0.61 

Oregon 

2.43 

0.15 

5.21 

69.6 

6.6 

23.0 

38.1 

0.75 

Pennsylvania 

2.90 

0.12 

5.39 

70.8 

5.0 

21.6 

42.8 

na 

Rhode  Island 

na 

0.08 

na 

51.9 

3.1 

16.7 

na 

0.92 

South  Carolina 

2.48 

0.15 

4.13 

69.7 

6.5 

21.2 

36.7 

0.48 

South  Dakota 

2.50 

0.19 

6.47 

60.6 

7.6 

18.3 

53.8 

0.93 

Tennessee 

2.42 

0.18 

3.75 

64.2 

7.8 

15.5 

32.2 

na 

Texas 

2.11 

0.16 

4.42 

73.2 

7.1 

17.7 

41.8 

0.71 

Utah 

2.40 

0.18 

4.90 

65.6 

8.2 

15.5 

46.8 

0.64 

Vermont 

2.65 

0.14 

5.02 

69.2 

5.4 

20.6 

34.5 

na 

Vi  rginia 

2.79 

0.16 

4.95 

62.4 

7.1 

16.4 

43.6 

0.62 

Washington 

2.60 

0.13 

5.98 

70.9 

5.4 

28.5 

47.0 

0.96 

West  Virginia 

2.18 

0.19 

3.30 

68.0 

9.0 

14.5 

29.7 

1.59 

Wisconsin 

2.29 

0.17 

4.47 

69.0 

7.2 

26.6 

37.0 

-0.51 

Wyoming 

1.61 

0.20 

3.44 

76.0 

8.5 

12.6 

27.5 

0.34 

United  States 

2.38 

0.15 

4.92 

70.1 

6.8 

22.3 

43.0 

0.79 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued-- 


217 


Table  44--Farm  financial  ratios,  1990- -continued 


Solvency 


Prof itabi lity 


Rates  of  return 


Rates  of  return 


State 

Debt 

Debt 

on 

assets  from- 

- 

on 

equity  from- 

- 

Net  farm 
income  to 
gross  cash 
farm  income 

to 

assets 

to 

equi ty 

Current 

income 

Real  : 
capital  : 
gains  : 

Total 

Current 

income 

Real  : 

capital  : 
gains  : 

Total 

Alabama 

14.1 

16.4 

6.5 

-7.8 

Percent 

-1.3 

6.0 

-8.2 

-2.3 

29.7 

Alaska 

4.0 

4.1 

0.0 

-3.0 

-3.0 

-0.5 

-2.9 

-3.4 

20.7 

Arizona 

12.9 

14.9 

6.7 

3.4 

10.1 

6.0 

4.9 

10.9 

32.4 

Arkansas 

20.5 

25.8 

6.3 

-3.8 

2.5 

5.5 

-3.5 

2.0 

18.4 

California 

18.2 

22.2 

7.8 

0.1 

8.0 

7.7 

1.2 

9.0 

29.1 

Colorado 

17.0 

20.5 

5.9 

5.6 

11.5 

5.1 

8.0 

13.0 

22.0 

Connecticut 

7.4 

8.0 

4.4 

-10.4 

-6.1 

4.0 

-10.8 

-6.8 

36.6 

Delaware 

22.0 

28.1 

9.2 

-3.7 

5.5 

9.5 

-3.5 

6.0 

21.2 

Florida 

14.0 

16.3 

7.9 

-2.4 

5.4 

7.7 

-2.0 

5.7 

38.3 

Georgia 

18.3 

22.4 

6.3 

-5.3 

0.9 

5.5 

-5.4 

0.1 

27.6 

Hawai i 

9.8 

10.9 

2.4 

-2.0 

0.4 

1.7 

-1.7 

0.0 

11.4 

Idaho 

20.3 

25.5 

8.7 

-4.6 

4.1 

8.6 

-4.6 

4.1 

35.6 

I llinois 

14.6 

17.1 

4.2 

-1.8 

2.4 

3.2 

-1.2 

2.0 

17.2 

Indiana 

17.7 

21.5 

3.3 

-2.6 

0.7 

1.9 

-2.1 

-0.1 

14.8 

Iowa 

18.8 

23.1 

5.4 

-0.1 

5.2 

4.4 

1.0 

5.4 

21.3 

Kansas 

18.9 

23.3 

5.4 

-3.0 

2.4 

4.5 

-2.6 

1.9 

20.5 

Kentucky 

15.1 

17.8 

2.4 

-5.3 

-3.0 

1.2 

-5.4 

-4.2 

32.0 

Louisiana 

19.4 

24.1 

4.8 

-4.8 

0.0 

3.6 

-4.7 

-1.1 

17.4 

Ma  i  ne 

16.2 

19.3 

2.7 

-11.7 

-9.0 

1.6 

-12.9 

11.3 

28.7 

Maryland 

16.2 

19.4 

3.3 

-10.9 

-7.5 

2.5 

-12.0 

-9.5 

24.3 

Massachusetts 

8.4 

9.2 

2.4 

-10.7 

-8.2 

2.0 

-11.2 

-9.1 

31.1 

M i ch i gan 

17.5 

21.2 

0.7 

1.1 

1.9 

-1.2 

2.5 

1.3 

17.8 

Minnesota 

18.3 

22.3 

4.3 

1.6 

5.8 

3.0 

3.1 

6.1 

26.7 

Mississippi 

21.1 

26.8 

2.9 

-2.1 

0.8 

1.0 

-1.3 

-0.2 

13.5 

Missouri 

16.4 

19.7 

0.7 

-3.6 

-2.8 

-1.0 

-3.3 

-4.3 

16.1 

Montana 

13.9 

16.2 

2.3 

-1.0 

1.3 

1.2 

-0.3 

0.9 

20.3 

Nebraska 

18.1 

22.1 

7.4 

-3.4 

4.0 

6.9 

-3.1 

3.9 

26.4 

Nevada 

9.1 

10.0 

2.8 

6.0 

8.8 

2.1 

7.2 

9.3 

27.3 

New  Hampshire 

5.6 

5.9 

-1.2 

-11.3 

12.4 

-1.7 

-11.6 

13.4 

22.9 

New  Jersey 

5.4 

5.7 

1.1 

-1.2 

-0.1 

0.7 

-1.0 

-0.2 

27.7 

New  Mexico 

9.5 

10.5 

3.3 

6.1 

9.4 

2.7 

7.3 

10.0 

24.4 

New  York 

18.1 

22.0 

0.8 

1.7 

2.4 

-0.8 

3.2 

2.4 

20.6 

North  Carolina 

18.1 

22.0 

13.5 

-6.3 

7.3 

14.5 

-6.6 

7.9 

39.9 

North  Dakota 

16.4 

19.7 

4.7 

0.7 

5.4 

3.8 

1.9 

5.7 

26.2 

Ohio 

13.3 

15.3 

3.4 

-2.3 

1.1 

2.4 

-1.9 

0.5 

25.7 

Oklahoma 

18.3 

22.4 

3.5 

-5.2 

-1.7 

2.2 

-5.3 

-3.1 

25.8 

Oregon 

19.3 

23.9 

3.9 

-3.7 

0.2 

2.9 

-3.4 

-0.5 

25.9 

Pennsylvania 

12.8 

14.7 

-0.9 

-5.5 

-6.4 

-2.3 

-5.6 

-7.9 

20.0 

Rhode  Island 

8.2 

8.9 

3.6 

-10.4 

-6.8 

3.4 

-10.8 

-7.5 

44.2 

South  Carolina 

15.3 

18.1 

2.3 

-2.8 

-0.5 

1.1 

-2.4 

-1.3 

20.2 

South  Dakota 

15.6 

18.5 

6.4 

2.0 

8.4 

6.0 

3.3 

9.3 

38.9 

Tennessee 

13.4 

15.5 

-0.5 

-5.3 

-5.9 

-2.0 

-5.4 

-7.4 

19.9 

Texas 

12.6 

14.4 

3.4 

-5.9 

-2.6 

2.4 

-6.1 

-3.7 

22.7 

Utah 

12.3 

14.1 

2.9 

-1.7 

1.1 

1.8 

-1.3 

0.6 

30.7 

Vermont 

15.2 

17.9 

-0.7 

-6.2 

-6.9 

-2.1 

-6.5 

-8.6 

18.6 

Vi rginia 

14.1 

16.5 

2.5 

-17.4 

14.8 

1.5 

-19.2 

17.7 

27.9 

Washington 

18.8 

23.2 

6.9 

-1.6 

5.3 

6.6 

-0.9 

5.7 

25.6 

West  Virginia 

14.4 

16.8 

-3.6 

-8.1 

11.7 

-5.7 

-8.7 

14.4 

20.8 

Wisconsin 

20.1 

25.1 

1.4 

-0.6 

0.8 

-0.7 

0.6 

-0.1 

21.7 

Wyoming 

12.7 

14.5 

1.5 

-1.9 

-0.4 

0.5 

-1.6 

-1.0 

18.0 

United  States 

16.2 

19.3 

4.5 

-2.5 

2.0 

3.5 

-2.0 

1.5 

24.8 

See  illustration  8  in  text  for  definitions  of  ratios. 

na  =  not  appropriate  because  the  relative  magnitude  of  the  nunerator  and  denominator  yields  unrealistic  results. 


218 


Table  45--Farm  financial  ratios,  1991 


State 

Liquidity 

: 

Efficiency 

Farm  business 
debt  service 
coverage 

:  Debt 

: servicing 

:  Times 
: interest 
:  earned 

:  Gross  : 

:  ratio  : 

Interest  to  :  Asset  : 
gross  cash  : turnover  : 
farm  income  :  : 

Net  cash 
farm  income 
to  debt 

:  Leverage 
:  i ndex 

Rat io  - - - -  - 

KdL  1  O 

A l abama 

5.10 

0.09 

10.40 

59.1 

3.7 

34.5 

97.3 

0.98 

Alaska 

2.48 

0.17 

3.83 

67.0 

8.7 

4.9 

36.9 

na 

Arizona 

2.61 

0.16 

5.73 

64.5 

7.4 

17.8 

60.9 

0.89 

Arkansas 

2.03 

0.12 

4.64 

79.9 

5.0 

34.0 

36.5 

0.86 

California 

2.29 

0.13 

5.56 

75.1 

5.0 

26.1 

38.0 

0.94 

Colorado 

2.00 

0.15 

4.34 

77.2 

6.4 

25.8 

38.9 

0.75 

Connecticut 

4.91 

0.09 

11.87 

59.2 

3.4 

16.8 

88.6 

0.90 

Delaware 

2.93 

0.09 

7.32 

77.7 

3.0 

48.5 

50.2 

1.00 

Florida 

5.08 

0.10 

10.36 

52.9 

4.6 

24.9 

84.5 

1.03 

Georg i a 

3.32 

0.13 

7.24 

63.3 

5.5 

30.4 

63.2 

1.00 

Hawa i i 

1.49 

0.11 

2.99 

88.9 

4.6 

16.2 

14.7 

0.38 

Idaho 

2.50 

0.17 

5.61 

64.3 

6.8 

24.7 

43.8 

0.93 

1 1 1  i  noi  s 

1.54 

0.18 

2.74 

80.3 

7.9 

16.5 

18.5 

0.47 

Indiana 

1.43 

0.18 

1.85 

82.0 

8.2 

19.2 

12.2 

na 

Iowa 

1.82 

0.17 

3.48 

75.5 

7.3 

21.8 

25.6 

0.68 

Kansas 

2.13 

0.15 

4.13 

74.6 

5.9 

27.3 

31.7 

0.69 

Kentucky 

3.29 

0.15 

5.93 

58.3 

6.1 

20.0 

48.2 

0.53 

Louisiana 

1.40 

0.19 

2.95 

81.3 

7.9 

23.4 

26.5 

0.60 

Maine 

2.99 

0.12 

6.89 

67.6 

4.5 

27.9 

50.1 

0.00 

Maryland 

2.84 

0.12 

6.05 

71.6 

4.5 

25.7 

42.0 

0.37 

Massachusetts 

3.95 

0.12 

11.51 

57.6 

3.6 

14.4 

66.2 

0.62 

Michigan 

2.07 

0.15 

4.24 

75.5 

6.4 

23.7 

28.8 

na 

Minnesota 

2.21 

0.17 

3.51 

70.0 

7.1 

23.0 

28.4 

-0.14 

Mississippi 

1.20 

0.19 

2.81 

85.3 

7.9 

24.1 

24.1 

0.49 

Missouri 

1.47 

0.21 

2.70 

78.7 

8.8 

16.2 

21.5 

na 

Montana 

1.57 

0.25 

4.04 

71.4 

11.0 

10.4 

31.5 

0.71 

Nebraska 

2.60 

0.14 

5.80 

68.6 

5.5 

28.1 

45.9 

0.95 

Nevada 

2.96 

0.16 

4.74 

61.2 

7.3 

10.6 

40.8 

0.76 

New  Hampshire 

3.78 

0.09 

9.82 

69.1 

3.3 

12.5 

59.5 

0.25 

New  Jersey 

3.50 

0.11 

8.94 

66.4 

3.7 

9.1 

50.1 

0.03 

New  Mexico 

2.51 

0.14 

5.82 

71.1 

5.8 

13.3 

48.1 

0.81 

New  York 

2.42 

0.14 

5.24 

70.4 

5.1 

25.1 

33.4 

na 

North  Carolina 

5.27 

0.09 

12.15 

54.9 

3.8 

39.4 

101.6 

1.10 

North  Dakota 

1.77 

0.22 

3.85 

70.3 

8.8 

15.5 

29.0 

0.74 

Ohio 

2.68 

0.14 

4.22 

69.0 

6.1 

19.2 

34.2 

na 

Oklahoma 

2.03 

0.18 

3.77 

70.1 

7.6 

21.3 

32.2 

0.09 

Oregon 

2.56 

0.14 

5.33 

69.0 

5.5 

23.4 

32.4 

0.42 

Pennsylvania 

2.38 

0.12 

4.41 

75.4 

4.8 

20.0 

28.0 

1.57 

Rhode  Island 

5.53 

0.09 

na 

51.0 

2.8 

17.9 

98.3 

1.00 

South  Carolina 

2.77 

0.14 

5.71 

67.8 

5.7 

21.9 

47.6 

0.76 

South  Dakota 

2.53 

0.19 

6.53 

59.4 

6.9 

17.6 

47.4 

0.91 

Tennessee 

2.14 

0.19 

3.81 

67.7 

7.6 

14.6 

29.4 

na 

Texas 

2.24 

0.15 

4.63 

72.3 

6.4 

18.4 

40.1 

0.69 

Utah 

2.49 

0.18 

4.85 

63.5 

7.8 

14.5 

43.1 

0.09 

Vermont 

2.36 

0.14 

4.98 

71.6 

5.0 

20.4 

28.5 

1.60 

Vi  rgini a 

2.77 

0.16 

5.10 

63.1 

6.6 

16.9 

40.2 

0.62 

Washington 

2.88 

0.12 

6.33 

70.1 

4.4 

30.6 

43.4 

0.90 

West  Virginia 

2.22 

0.19 

3.17 

67.1 

8.3 

13.4 

25.6 

1.41 

Wisconsin 

1.97 

0.17 

3.56 

73.8 

7.0 

24.7 

25.3 

na 

Wyoming 

1.49 

0.19 

4.92 

79.5 

7.1 

14.1 

34.7 

0.68 

United  States 

2.33 

0.15 

4.77 

71.1 

6.2 

21.9 

37.2 

0.70 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- 


219 


Table  45--Farm  financial  ratios,  1991--continued 


Solvency 


Prof itabi lity 


Rates  of  return 


Rates  of  return 


State 

Debt 

to 

assets 

Debt  : 

on 

assets  from-- 

:  on  equity  from-- 

:  Net  farm 

to  : 

equity  : 

Current 

income 

:  Real 
:  capital 
:  gains 

Total 

:  Current 
:  i  ncome 

:  Real 
:  capital 
:  gains 

Total 

:  income  to 
:  gross  cash 
:  farm  income 

Percent 

Alabama 

14.1 

16.5 

8.3 

-0.9 

7.4 

8.2 

-0.4 

7.8 

36.1 

Alaska 

4.0 

4.2 

0.0 

-4.3 

-4.3 

-0.5 

-4.3 

-4.8 

21.6 

Arizona 

11.5 

12.9 

6.1 

0.9 

7.0 

5.5 

1.6 

7.1 

34.2 

Arkansas 

22.1 

28.3 

5.3 

-11.0 

-5.7 

4.6 

-12.8 

-8.2 

17.9 

California 

18.6 

22.8 

5.5 

-5.1 

0.3 

5.1 

-5.4 

-0.2 

21.8 

Colorado 

18.5 

22.7 

4.3 

-12.3 

-8.0 

3.2 

-14.0 

-10.8 

20.4 

Connecticut 

7.2 

7.7 

3.4 

-8.5 

-5.1 

3.1 

-8.8 

-5.7 

35.2 

Delaware 

21.9 

28.1 

6.7 

-8.2 

-1.5 

6.7 

-9.3 

-2.6 

19.7 

F l or i da 

14.6 

17.1 

9.7 

-6.7 

3.0 

10.0 

-7.2 

2.8 

44.0 

Georg i a 

20.2 

25.3 

8.7 

-10.9 

-2.2 

8.7 

-12.5 

-3.8 

34.5 

Hawai i 

8.2 

9.0 

1.1 

-6.2 

-5.1 

0.4 

-6.3 

-5.9 

3.6 

Idaho 

21.3 

27.0 

6.4 

-3.7 

2.7 

6.0 

-3.6 

2.4 

30.1 

I l linois 

14.5 

17.0 

2.2 

-0.5 

1.7 

1.0 

0.2 

1.2 

8.5 

Indiana 

18.2 

22.2 

0.0 

-2.9 

-2.9 

-1.9 

-2.6 

-4.5 

3.2 

Iowa 

19.2 

23.7 

3.6 

-2.5 

1.1 

2.5 

-2.1 

0.3 

15.0 

Kansas 

18.4 

22.6 

3.6 

-1.3 

2.3 

2.5 

-0.7 

1.8 

15.9 

Kentucky 

15.9 

19.0 

2.2 

-2.5 

-0.3 

1.2 

-2.3 

-1.1 

31.2 

Louisiana 

20.5 

25.8 

3.6 

-4.4 

-0.8 

2.1 

-4.4 

-2.3 

14.7 

Ma  i  ne 

15.4 

18.1 

1.2 

-8.4 

-7.1 

0.0 

-9.1 

-9.1 

23.9 

Maryland 

16.3 

19.5 

1.7 

-2.0 

-0.4 

0.6 

-1.6 

-1.0 

22.1 

Massachusetts 

8.6 

9.5 

1.2 

-8.2 

-7.0 

0.7 

-8.6 

-7.9 

35.6 

Michigan 

16.9 

20.3 

0.0 

-2.6 

-2.6 

-1.8 

-2.2 

-4.1 

14.4 

Minnesota 

18.8 

23.2 

1.5 

-3.5 

-2.0 

-0.2 

-3.3 

-3.5 

15.7 

Mississippi 

21.8 

27.9 

3.1 

-6.9 

-3.8 

1.5 

-7.7 

-6.1 

13.6 

Missouri 

17.1 

20.6 

0.0 

-5.4 

-5.4 

-1.7 

-5.6 

-7.4 

13.3 

Montana 

13.3 

15.4 

2.9 

-1.4 

1.5 

2.1 

-1.0 

1.1 

30.4 

Nebraska 

18.8 

23.2 

7.0 

-2.1 

4.9 

6.7 

-1.7 

5.0 

24.5 

Nevada 

8.3 

9.1 

2.5 

-0.7 

1.8 

1.9 

-0.4 

1.6 

26.2 

New  Hampshire 

5.7 

6.0 

0.5 

-8.4 

-7.8 

0.1 

-8.6 

-8.5 

23.6 

New  Jersey 

5.7 

6.1 

0.3 

-6.4 

-6.1 

0.0 

-6.6 

-6.6 

26.9 

New  Mexico 

9.0 

9.9 

2.9 

-3.6 

-0.6 

2.4 

-3.5 

-1.1 

27.5 

New  York 

16.9 

20.4 

0.1 

-0.9 

-0.8 

-1.5 

-0.2 

-1.6 

18.1 

North  Carolina 

19.0 

23.4 

15.0 

-4.8 

10.2 

16.6 

-5.0 

11.5 

43.9 

North  Dakota 

16.5 

19.8 

3.6 

-5.7 

-2.1 

2.6 

-5.9 

-3.3 

22.0 

Ohio 

13.2 

15.2 

-0.1 

-1.3 

-1.4 

-1.4 

-0.9 

-2.3 

17.5 

Oklahoma 

17.8 

21.6 

1.7 

-3.1 

-1.4 

0.1 

-2.9 

-2.7 

19.7 

Oregon 

19.8 

24.7 

1.9 

-4.1 

-2.2 

0.8 

-4.1 

-3.3 

21.6 

Pennsylvania 

13.2 

15.2 

-2.6 

-1.1 

-3.8 

-4.1 

-0.7 

-4.8 

13.4 

Rhode  Island 

9.4 

10.3 

5.7 

-7.8 

-2.1 

5.7 

-8.1 

-2.4 

45.2 

South  Carolina 

15.0 

17.6 

3.5 

-7.7 

-4.2 

2.7 

-8.3 

-5.6 

27.3 

South  Dakota 

16.1 

19.2 

5.2 

-0.9 

4.3 

4.7 

-0.3 

4.4 

35.9 

Tennessee 

13.5 

15.6 

-0.9 

-6.3 

-7.2 

-2.3 

-6.7 

-8.9 

19.6 

Texas 

13.2 

15.2 

2.9 

-6.1 

-3.1 

2.0 

-6.4 

-4.3 

21.7 

Utah 

12.2 

13.8 

1.2 

-1.9 

-0.7 

0.1 

-1.6 

-1.5 

28.7 

Vermont 

15.6 

18.5 

-2.9 

-4.1 

-7.0 

-4.6 

-4.1 

-8.7 

16.5 

Virginia 

14.0 

16.3 

2.4 

-2.7 

-0.3 

1.5 

-2.4 

-1.0 

26.7 

Washington 

18.7 

23.0 

5.0 

-4.3 

0.7 

4.5 

-4.3 

0.2 

22.3 

West  Virginia 

13.1 

15.1 

-5.0 

1.4 

-3.7 

-7.1 

2.3 

-4.9 

17.8 

Wisconsin 

20.0 

25.1 

-0.9 

-2.1 

-3.0 

-3.3 

-1.6 

-4.9 

13.5 

Wyoming 

14.1 

16.4 

2.4 

-11.5 

-9.0 

1.6 

-12.6 

-11.0 

25.7 

United  States 

16.5 

19.7 

3.3 

-4.0 

-0.7 

2.3 

-3.9 

-1.6 

21.6 

See  illustration  8  in  text  for  definitions  of  ratios. 

na  =  not  appropriate  because  the  relative  magnitude  of  the  nunerator  and  denominator  yields  unrealistic  results. 


220 


Table  46--Farm  financial  ratios,  1992 


State 

Liquidity 

: 

Efficiency 

Farm  business 
debt  service 
coverage 

:  Debt 

: servicing 

:  Times 
: interest 
:  earned 

:  Gross  : 

:  ratio  : 

Interest  to  :  Asset  : 
gross  cash  : turnover  : 
farm  income  :  : 

Net  cash 
farm  income 
to  debt 

; Leverage 
:  i ndex 

Ratio 

Rat i o  - - - -  - 

Alabama 

4.83 

0.09 

10.24 

59.5 

3.7 

32.6 

87.9 

0.95 

Alaska 

1.56 

0.25 

3.79 

69.1 

8.6 

4.9 

23.9 

na 

Arizona 

2.77 

0.15 

5.50 

64.8 

7.0 

17.3 

59.5 

0.88 

Arkansas 

3.11 

0.11 

7.18 

69.6 

4.3 

36.7 

52.5 

1.03 

California 

2.72 

0.12 

6.60 

71.0 

4.5 

27.7 

43.1 

1.00 

Colorado 

2.47 

0.13 

4.95 

72.9 

5.7 

28.2 

42.5 

0.84 

Connecticut 

5.51 

0.08 

13.64 

57.6 

3.1 

17.4 

102.3 

0.91 

Delaware 

3.09 

0.08 

7.73 

76.8 

2.8 

48.2 

49.2 

1.08 

Florida 

5.24 

0.10 

11.06 

52.4 

4.4 

25.7 

85.1 

1.04 

Georgia 

3.86 

0.12 

8.39 

59.1 

5.0 

32.5 

68.9 

1.05 

Hawai i 

1.72 

0.10 

3.38 

87.2 

4.4 

16.4 

17.9 

0.50 

Idaho 

2.81 

0.16 

6.29 

61.2 

6.1 

25.9 

45.4 

1.01 

1 1 1  i  noi  s 

1.51 

0.17 

4.46 

81.2 

7.3 

16.4 

31.1 

0.85 

Indiana 

1.32 

0.18 

3.35 

84.3 

7.7 

18.8 

24.1 

0.59 

Iowa 

1.79 

0.17 

4.65 

76.4 

6.8 

21.3 

32.5 

0.85 

Kansas 

1.96 

0.15 

5.31 

76.7 

5.7 

25.9 

39.2 

0.83 

Kentucky 

3.46 

0.14 

7.35 

57.0 

5.6 

19.8 

55.5 

0.89 

Louisiana 

2.13 

0.17 

4.29 

70.7 

6.9 

26.4 

37.7 

0.86 

Ma  i  ne 

3.70 

0.11 

7.86 

63.0 

4.0 

29.6 

56.8 

0.79 

Maryland 

3.09 

0.11 

7.25 

69.9 

4.1 

25.1 

47.2 

0.85 

Massachusetts 

4.27 

0.11 

13.27 

55.7 

3.4 

14.5 

73.1 

0.91 

Michigan 

2.33 

0.14 

4.77 

72.8 

5.9 

23.8 

30.8 

na 

Minnesota 

2.05 

0.17 

4.08 

71.6 

7.0 

21.9 

30.3 

-0.09 

Mississippi 

1.98 

0.17 

4.30 

74.0 

6.8 

26.7 

36.2 

0.88 

Missouri 

1.58 

0.19 

3.57 

77.5 

7.9 

16.8 

27.0 

-0.60 

Montana 

2.06 

0.22 

3.69 

64.1 

9.4 

11.1 

26.8 

0.46 

Nebraska 

2.40 

0.15 

6.63 

70.0 

5.4 

26.8 

47.6 

0.97 

Nevada 

2.82 

0.16 

3.87 

62.8 

7.4 

10.1 

32.1 

0.60 

New  Hampshire 

4.10 

0.09 

12.25 

67.8 

3.1 

12.8 

74.3 

0.12 

New  Jersey 

3.60 

0.11 

10.45 

64.2 

3.5 

9.4 

53.1 

0.59 

New  Mexico 

3.06 

0.13 

6.85 

65.8 

5.2 

14.2 

54.6 

0.87 

New  York 

2.68 

0.14 

6.00 

68.4 

4.7 

25.3 

37.5 

-0.60 

North  Carolina 

5.54 

0.09 

12.78 

54.7 

3.5 

40.4 

99.8 

1.11 

North  Dakota 

2.36 

0.19 

5.53 

63.5 

7.2 

17.3 

40.9 

0.89 

Ohio 

2.75 

0.13 

5.89 

69.2 

5.7 

19.2 

46.8 

0.62 

Oklahoma 

2.08 

0.19 

4.62 

68.3 

7.6 

19.4 

38.4 

0.45 

Oregon 

2.74 

0.14 

6.08 

67.8 

5.1 

22.7 

35.3 

-0.34 

Pennsylvania 

3.01 

0.12 

6.64 

69.5 

4.3 

21.4 

41.8 

na 

Rhode  Island 

5.85 

0.09 

na 

48.8 

2.6 

19.4 

103.0 

1.03 

South  Carolina 

2.92 

0.13 

5.68 

66.3 

5.5 

22.0 

46.0 

0.54 

South  Dakota 

2.37 

0.19 

7.18 

60.7 

6.7 

16.6 

47.8 

0.96 

Tennessee 

2.62 

0.17 

5.09 

63.0 

6.6 

15.6 

38.6 

-1.00 

Texas 

2.38 

0.15 

5.45 

70.4 

6.2 

18.2 

45.2 

0.80 

Utah 

2.64 

0.17 

6.04 

62.6 

7.2 

14.2 

51.7 

0.72 

Vermont 

2.83 

0.13 

7.60 

67.9 

4.6 

21.1 

46.9 

na 

Vi rginia 

2.74 

0.15 

5.43 

64.6 

6.2 

17.2 

40.2 

0.68 

Washington 

3.47 

0.11 

8.10 

66.3 

3.9 

32.6 

54.0 

1.00 

West  Virginia 

2.59 

0.17 

3.61 

62.9 

7.5 

13.6 

27.3 

1.62 

Wisconsin 

2.12 

0.16 

3.84 

72.1 

6.5 

24.8 

25.4 

na 

Wyoming 

1.83 

0.20 

5.28 

71.3 

7.2 

13.2 

35.3 

0.76 

United  States 

2.51 

0.15 

5.78 

69.3 

5.8 

22.1 

42.8 

0.84 

See  footnotes  at  end  of  table.  continued- - 


221 


Table  46--Farm  financial  ratios,  1992- -continued 


Solvency 

Prof itabi  l  i  ty 

Rates  of  return 

Rates  of  return 

State 

Debt 

Debt 

on 

assets  from- 

on 

equity  from- 

Net  farm 

to 

to 

i ncome  to 

assets 

equi ty 

Current 

Real  : 

Current 

Real  : 

gross  cash 

income 

capital  : 

Total 

income 

capital  : 

Total 

farm  income 

gains  : 

gains  : 

Percent 

Alabama 

14.6 

17.0 

6.5 

-0.3 

6.1 

6.2 

0.1 

6.2 

35.0 

Alaska 

8.0 

8.7 

-0.4 

-3.2 

-3.6 

-0.8 

-3.3 

-4.1 

20.5 

Arizona 

10.4 

11.6 

5.5 

-1.9 

3.6 

4.8 

-1.8 

3.0 

30.4 

Arkansas 

21.1 

26.8 

8.2 

-1.2 

7.0 

8.4 

-0.8 

7.7 

26.6 

California 

19.2 

23.7 

6.6 

-4.1 

2.5 

6.6 

-4.4 

2.2 

24.8 

Colorado 

17.6 

21.4 

5.1 

0.2 

5.4 

4.3 

1.0 

5.3 

21.6 

Connecticut 

6.8 

7.2 

3.5 

3.0 

6.6 

3.2 

3.5 

6.7 

37.8 

Delaware 

22.2 

28.6 

8.7 

6.3 

15.0 

9.4 

8.8 

18.2 

19.7 

F l or i da 

14.8 

17.4 

10.2 

-2.2 

8.1 

10.7 

-2.0 

8.6 

44.3 

Georgia 

19.4 

24.0 

10.2 

1.6 

11.7 

10.7 

2.7 

13.3 

36.9 

Hawai i 

8.5 

9.3 

1.3 

-4.2 

-2.9 

0.7 

-4.4 

-3.7 

4.7 

Idaho 

20.9 

26.5 

7.6 

-0.1 

7.5 

7.7 

0.6 

8.3 

31.0 

I l linois 

14.5 

16.9 

4.3 

-2.6 

1.7 

3.7 

-2.6 

1.1 

20.3 

Indiana 

17.1 

20.6 

2.8 

0.5 

3.3 

1.6 

1.3 

2.9 

14.9 

Iowa 

18.4 

22.5 

4.7 

1.6 

6.3 

4.1 

2.6 

6.6 

21.8 

Kansas 

18.1 

22.2 

4.6 

-0.7 

3.9 

3.8 

-0.2 

3.6 

21.9 

Kentucky 

14.8 

17.4 

4.5 

3.1 

7.6 

4.0 

4.2 

8.2 

37.5 

Louisiana 

20.4 

25.7 

5.7 

1.1 

6.8 

4.9 

2.2 

7.1 

22.3 

Maine 

15.1 

17.7 

3.5 

1.7 

5.3 

2.8 

2.5 

5.3 

25.2 

Maryland 

15.4 

18.2 

3.6 

6.2 

9.8 

3.0 

7.9 

10.9 

25.7 

Massachusetts 

8.2 

8.9 

3.0 

3.2 

6.2 

2.8 

3.7 

6.5 

39.0 

M i ch i gan 

16.7 

20.1 

0.3 

-0.7 

-0.5 

-1.4 

-0.3 

-1.7 

15.8 

Minnesota 

18.9 

23.3 

1.4 

-1.2 

0.2 

-0.1 

-0.8 

-0.9 

19.1 

Mississippi 

20.7 

26.2 

5.9 

-1.3 

4.6 

5.2 

-0.8 

4.4 

22.0 

Missouri 

16.5 

19.7 

0.9 

-1.3 

-0.4 

-0.5 

-0.9 

-1.5 

19.1 

Montana 

12.7 

14.5 

1.7 

4.2 

5.9 

0.8 

5.2 

6.0 

22.0 

Nebraska 

19.0 

23.4 

6.9 

-1.5 

5.4 

6.7 

-1.1 

5.6 

28.2 

Nevada 

8.5 

9.3 

1.7 

-8.4 

-6.8 

1.0 

-8.9 

-7.9 

19.4 

New  Hampshire 

5.5 

5.8 

0.5 

3.0 

3.5 

0.1 

3.4 

3.4 

29.3 

New  Jersey 

6.2 

6.7 

0.7 

-7.0 

-6.3 

0.4 

-7.3 

-6.8 

30.3 

New  Mexico 

9.4 

10.3 

3.5 

-10.1 

-6.6 

3.0 

-10.8 

-7.8 

30.1 

New  York 

16.7 

20.1 

0.8 

4.9 

5.7 

-0.5 

6.5 

6.0 

20.2 

North  Carolina 

17.7 

21.5 

14.5 

-0.9 

13.5 

16.0 

-0.5 

15.5 

41.8 

North  Dakota 

15.1 

17.8 

5.0 

3.3 

8.3 

4.4 

4.5 

8.9 

30.2 

Ohio 

13.0 

15.0 

2.4 

-1.2 

1.2 

1.5 

-0.9 

0.5 

26.3 

Oklahoma 

16.3 

19.5 

2.3 

0.3 

2.7 

1.1 

1.0 

2.1 

26.2 

Oregon 

17.2 

20.8 

0.9 

2.9 

3.8 

-0.3 

4.2 

3.9 

23.7 

Pennsylvania 

13.6 

15.8 

-0.8 

-4.8 

-5.6 

-2.0 

-5.1 

-7.1 

22.0 

Rhode  Island 

9.7 

10.7 

7.0 

3.5 

10.5 

7.2 

4.2 

11.3 

47.8 

South  Carolina 

15.1 

17.8 

2.2 

-8.6 

-6.4 

1.2 

-9.6 

-8.4 

26.0 

South  Dakota 

15.7 

18.6 

5.7 

0.2 

5.9 

5.5 

0.8 

6.3 

39.0 

Tennessee 

12.6 

14.5 

0.6 

0.8 

1.3 

-0.6 

1.3 

0.8 

25.7 

Texas 

12.5 

14.3 

3.7 

-1.4 

2.3 

3.0 

-1.2 

1.8 

25.8 

Utah 

11.1 

12.5 

2.8 

3.6 

6.4 

2.0 

4.4 

6.4 

35.1 

Vermont 

13.5 

15.7 

-0.6 

6.2 

5.6 

-1.8 

7.7 

6.0 

27.8 

Vi rginia 

14.6 

17.0 

2.6 

-8.0 

-5.4 

1.7 

-8.8 

-7.1 

27.0 

Washington 

18.4 

22.6 

6.8 

-2.5 

4.3 

6.8 

-2.4 

4.4 

26.9 

West  Virginia 

13.7 

15.9 

-2.5 

-8.4 

10.9 

-4.1 

-9.2 

13.3 

19.5 

Wisconsin 

19.6 

24.3 

-0.7 

1.3 

0.6 

-2.9 

2.3 

-0.6 

13.7 

Wyoming 

12.7 

14.5 

2.8 

2.9 

5.7 

2.1 

3.9 

6.0 

28.4 

United  States 

16.1 

19.2 

4.2 

-0.9 

3.4 

3.5 

-0.5 

3.1 

25.8 

See  illustration  8  in  text  for  definitions  of  ratios. 

na  =  not  appropriate  because  the  relative  magnitude  of  the  nunerator  and  denominator  yields  unrealistic  results. 


222 


Appendix 


For  many  components  of  the  farm  income  accounts,  data  essential  to  the  development  of  the  accounts  for 
individual  states  are  not  available  from  the  USDA’s  official  statistics.  In  some  cases,  survey  information  is 
collected  but  is  not  published  because  sample  size  or  procedure  do  not  meet  the  rigorous  standards  of 
statistical  reliability  set  for  publication. 

In  the  development  of  the  income  accounts,  an  estimate  must  be  made  for  every  component  in  order  to  derive 
net  income  as  a  residual  difference  between  gross  income  and  total  expenses.  In  the  estimation  of  the  States’ 
incomes,  considerable  effort  goes  into  refining  the  best  information  available  into  essential  data  and 
relationships  not  published  in  the  department’s  official  data  series. 

Some  of  these  "unofficial"  data  underlying  the  income  accounts  are  presented  for  the  information  of  the 
readers.  This  information  should  assist  users  in  their  selection  of  applications  for  the  income  statistics  and  in 
their  assessment  of  the  validity  of  the  conclusion  which  may  be  supported  as  a  result  of  analysis.  Readers  are 
welcome  to  provide  feedback  to  the  farm  income  staff  regarding  possible  refinements  and  improvements  in 
these  statistics. 

Commodities  Used  on  Farms  Where  Produced 

USDA  regularly  publishes  detailed  statistics  on  production  and  prices  but  not  on  quantities  and  timing  of 
sales,  both  of  which  are  essential  for  income  accounting  on  a  calendar  year  basis.  Commodities  used  for  feed 
and  seed  on  farms  where  produced  create  value  via  additional  production  and  their  value  is  ultimately  reflected 
in  the  contribution  to  the  final  product.  Thus,  production  statistics  for  these  crops  must  be  accurately 
partitioned  between  the  two  alternative  dispositions  of  "used  on  farm"  and  "sales."  USDA  last  published  such 
statistics  in  1981.  Information  collected  on  the  FCRS  is  used  by  the  farm  income  staff  to  develop  the  shares 
of  crops  used  on  farms,  with  the  balance  going  to  sales.  The  percentage  of  selected  crops  used  for  feed  or  seed 
on  farms  where  produced  is  presented  for  States  in  appendix  table  1. 

Gross  Farm  Income 

Cash  receipts  from  the  sales  of  agricultural  commodities  and  government  payments  to  farmers  make  up  a  large 
majority  of  gross  farm  income.  And,  fortunately,  the  official  data  base  allows  the  two  components  to  be 
estimated  directly  at  the  State  level.  For  other  components  of  gross  income-such  as  farm-related  income, 
home  consumption  of  crops,  and  gross  rent-only  regional  estimates  are  available  directly  from  survey  data. 
State  estimates  must  then  be  derived  by  apportioning  the  regional  estimate  out  to  the  States  based  on  a  set 
of  distribution  factors  developed  for  that  purpose  by  the  farm  income  staff.  The  set  of  relationships  used  in 
estimating  gross  farm  income  for  individual  States  are  presented  in  appendix  table  2. 

Production  Expenses 

Most  components  of  production  expenses  are  based  on  the  FCRS.  The  exceptions  are  livestock  and  poultry 
purchased,  interest,  dairy  assessment  fees,  government  payments  to  landlords,  and  capital  consumption.  The 
FCRS  does  not  support  State  expense  estimates  either,  yielding  reliable  statistics  only  at  the  national  and 
regional  level.  As  a  consequence,  region  totals  for  each  component  account  must  be  allocated  to  the  combined 
States  based  on  distribution  patterns  constructed  by  the  farm  income  staff  using  the  most  appropriate 
information  from  among  alternative  and  applicable  sources,  for  example,  the  census  of  agriculture.  The 
relationships  selected  for  numerous  expense  accounts  are  presented  in  appendix  table  3. 


223 


Table  A1- -State  d 

stribution  factors  for  used  on  farm,  1992 

STATE 

NAME 

Rice 

Rye  Wheat 

Barley 

Com 

Hay 

Oats 

Sorghun 

Cottonseed 

Soybean 

NORTHEAST: 

Connecticut 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

63.3 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Delaware 

0.00 

28.00 

3.8 

17.0 

10.3 

79.2 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

2.2 

Maine 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

82.9 

9.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Maryland 

0.00 

42.00 

3.2 

22.5 

20.8 

73.2 

56.9 

0.0 

0.00 

2.0 

Massachusetts 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

79.4 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

New  Hampshire 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

63.7 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

New  Jersey 

0.00 

24.00 

2.3 

12.3 

23.7 

66.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.7 

New  York 

0.00 

34.00 

4.6 

0.0 

55.3 

80.7 

43.3 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Pennsylvania 

0.00 

63.00 

21.5 

82.6 

62.7 

79.3 

79.8 

0.0 

0.00 

16.0 

Rhode  Island 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

68.6 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Vermont 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

83.6 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

LAKE  STATES: 

Michigan 

0.00 

43.00 

1.7 

41.0 

25.4 

77.6 

48.4 

0.0 

0.00 

0.9 

Minnesota 

0.00 

8.00 

1.3 

6.1 

21.3 

80.1 

61.5 

0.0 

0.00 

1.2 

Wisconsin 

0.00 

30.00 

2.4 

96.1 

55.0 

84.5 

72.4 

0.0 

0.00 

12.7 

CORN  BELT: 

Illinois 

0.00 

15.00 

4.2 

0.0 

13.3 

78.8 

60.0 

23.2 

0.00 

2.2 

Indiana 

0.00 

34.00 

2.2 

0.0 

16.2 

80.0 

65.6 

0.0 

0.00 

1.4 

Iowa 

0.00 

34.00 

17.9 

0.0 

27.7 

76.3 

63.7 

0.0 

0.00 

2.2 

Missouri 

0.70 

20.00 

3.8 

0.0 

25.9 

84.0 

88.3 

28.2 

6.25 

0.3 

Ohio 

0.00 

38.00 

2.1 

0.0 

16.4 

79.2 

67.0 

0.0 

0.00 

1.0 

NORTHERN  PLAINS: 

Kansas 

0.00 

30.00 

5.1 

36.0 

12.0 

67.1 

58.1 

26.3 

50.00 

1.2 

Nebraska 

0.00 

25.00 

3.0 

40.3 

15.9 

70.5 

35.7 

12.4 

0.00 

0.8 

North  Dakota 

0.00 

18.00 

4.1 

9.0 

19.9 

83.9 

56.8 

0.0 

0.00 

1.6 

South  Dakota 

0.00 

10.00 

2.5 

36.4 

34.5 

88.0 

43.7 

48.3 

0.00 

4.7 

APPALACHIAN: 

Kentucky 

0.00 

33.00 

6.1 

10.6 

28.8 

86.7 

0.0 

18.2 

0.00 

1.8 

North  Carolina 

0.00 

35.00 

5.4 

44.3 

14.4 

87.0 

39.5 

17.0 

54.55 

1.6 

Tennessee 

0.00 

0.00 

7.3 

0.0 

44.9 

86.6 

0.0 

7.3 

3.13 

2.4 

Virginia 

0.00 

40.00 

7.0 

22.3 

37.6 

83.6 

0.0 

0.0 

20.00 

2.1 

West  Virginia 

0.00 

0.00 

39.3 

0.0 

53.1 

85.7 

100.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

SOUTHEAST: 

Alabama 

0.00 

0.00 

7.2 

0.0 

43.7 

80.7 

78.8 

50.0 

21.16 

3.3 

Florida 

0.00 

0.00 

4.1 

0.0 

11.0 

86.4 

0.0 

0.0 

5.13 

0.8 

Georgia 

0.00 

40.00 

5.7 

0.0 

26.9 

76.4 

51.6 

39.7 

25.78 

0.8 

South  Carolina 

0.00 

31.00 

2.4 

33.4 

19.7 

79.2 

63.6 

25.1 

34.43 

1.0 

DELTA  STATES: 

Arkansas 

1.00 

0.00 

3.7 

0.0 

11.7 

78.9 

8.3 

5.3 

2.65 

1.7 

Louisiana 

0.20 

0.00 

0.1 

0.0 

15.7 

84.2 

0.0 

0.7 

15.15 

0.6 

Mississippi 

0.40 

0.00 

3.3 

0.0 

34.0 

86.7 

0.0 

9.6 

6.98 

2.0 

SOUTHERN  PLAINS: 

Oklahoma 

0.00 

30.00 

9.0 

22.0 

13.5 

80.7 

46.4 

10.5 

8.49 

1.8 

Texas 

0.40 

27.00 

5.5 

10.8 

3.9 

78.8 

37.2 

3.1 

12.78 

0.0 

MOUNTAIN: 

Arizona 

0.00 

0.00 

0.7 

4.5 

6.1 

13.1 

0.0 

0.0 

17.99 

0.0 

Colorado 

0.00 

25.00 

3.1 

5.2 

11.9 

46.9 

30.9 

23.7 

0.00 

0.0 

Idaho 

0.00 

0.00 

1.0 

7.5 

18.0 

56.9 

40.1 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Montana 

0.00 

0.00 

2.8 

11.1 

39.2 

75.3 

77.7 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Nevada 

0.00 

0.00 

14.5 

16.5 

0.0 

51.9 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

New  Mexico 

0.00 

0.00 

3.4 

0.0 

8.9 

25.2 

0.0 

2.3 

25.88 

0.0 

Utah 

0.00 

0.00 

2.2 

40.5 

17.4 

62.8 

68.3 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Wyoming 

0.00 

0.00 

3.5 

14.8 

43.8 

75.1 

55.9 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

PACIFIC: 

Alaska 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

10.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

California 

0.50 

0.00 

2.5 

3.2 

2.3 

25.3 

18.2 

0.0 

22.38 

0.0 

Hawaii 

0.00 

0.00 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Oregon 

0.00 

13.00 

1.8 

19.3 

8.2 

57.9 

11.8 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

Washington 

0.00 

0.00 

0.9 

3.6 

3.2 

42.9 

40.8 

0.0 

0.00 

0.0 

224 


Table  A2--State  distribution  factors  for  selected  components  of  gross  income,  1992 


Farm- 

related 

ncome 

Home 

consumpt i on 
of  crops 

rent 

State 

Machine  : 

hire  : 

custom  : 
work  : 

Custom 
f eedi ng 
servi ce 
fees 

Gross 

:  Other 

All  : 

dwe l l i ngs  : 

Hired  labor 
dwe l l i ngs 

NORTHEAST: 

Connect i cut 

1.9 

0.0 

4.0 

Percent 

2.8 

4.6 

6.5 

Delaware 

3.8 

35.7 

2.1 

1  .9 

2.1 

2.2 

Ma  i  ne 

5.5 

0.0 

3.2 

4.9 

4.9 

5.2 

Maryland 

13.6 

40.6 

12.2 

10.7 

11.0 

8.0 

Massachusetts 

5.5 

0.0 

6.3 

4.8 

6.7 

6.6 

New  Hampsh i re 

1.6 

0.0 

1  .9 

2.0 

4.3 

1.8 

New  Jersey 

6.0 

0.0 

5.0 

5.9 

10.8 

8.7 

New  York 

23.1 

0.1 

31.2 

26.2 

19.0 

27.7 

Pennsy l vani a 

35.8 

23.6 

25.5 

35.8 

31.4 

29.1 

Rhode  Island 

0.3 

0.0 

0.6 

0.5 

0.9 

1.0 

Vermont 

2.9 

0.0 

8.1 

4.8 

4.2 

3.2 

LAKE  STATES: 

Michigan 

21.9 

28.0 

19.2 

24.4 

25.4 

30.4 

M i nnesota 

47.7 

49.6 

47.7 

39.8 

41 . 1 

30.6 

U i scons i n 

30.4 

22.4 

33.1 

35.8 

33.5 

39.1 

CORN  BELT: 

Illinois 

22.9 

15.0 

25.8 

18.7 

19.6 

24.2 

I ndi ana 

12.7 

12.9 

11.7 

15.0 

18.3 

17.3 

Iowa 

32.2 

42.5 

32.6 

23.6 

19.8 

24.8 

M i  ssour i 

18.7 

15.9 

15.0 

24.7 

21.2 

14.5 

Oh  i  o 

13.5 

13.8 

14.9 

18.0 

21  .0 

19.2 

NORTHERN  PLAINS: 

Kansas 

32.2 

44.5 

26.0 

35.1 

34.1 

33.5 

Nebraska 

35.5 

47.1 

27.5 

29.3 

28.6 

38.7 

North  Dakota 

15.5 

1  .6 

28.9 

17.3 

15.1 

13.8 

South  Dakota 

16.7 

6.8 

17.6 

18.3 

22.2 

14.1 

APPALACHIAN: 

Kentucky 

30.9 

4.3 

17.9 

30.0 

26.7 

21.8 

North  Carolina 

29.7 

55.9 

22.3 

19.8 

21.8 

39.0 

Tennessee 

23.5 

11  .3 

21.4 

29.0 

26.3 

16.1 

Vi rgi ni a 

13.2 

23.8 

34.6 

14.5 

19.5 

19.9 

West  Virginia 

2.6 

4.6 

3.7 

6.6 

5.6 

3.2 

SOUTHEAST: 

A l abama 

31 . 1 

46.5 

30.0 

29.6 

28.3 

10.8 

Florida 

20.9 

5.9 

31.7 

25.1 

25.2 

62.8 

Georg i a 

36.5 

42.2 

29.7 

29.6 

32.6 

18.3 

South  Ca ro l i na 

11.5 

5.4 

8.7 

15.8 

14.0 

8.1 

DELTA  STATES: 

Arkansas 

49.0 

65.7 

32.0 

40.4 

32.6 

42.8 

Loui s i ana 

19.3 

3.0 

25.2 

26.3 

24.6 

26.4 

Mississippi 

31.7 

31  .3 

42.8 

33.3 

42.8 

30.8 

SOUTHERN  PLAINS: 

Ok l ahoma 

28.8 

18.1 

9.7 

28.0 

26.8 

16.6 

T  exas 

71.2 

81  .9 

90.3 

72.1 

73.2 

83.4 

MOUNTAIN: 

Ar  i  zona 

6.1 

11.9 

8.0 

6.8 

8.3 

23.1 

Co l orado 

28.5 

53.4 

23.8 

21 .7 

21.5 

19.2 

I  daho 

20.9 

16.0 

15.1 

17.9 

17.3 

20.2 

Montana 

21.5 

5.3 

17.5 

20.9 

21.9 

1 1  .4 

Nevada 

2.0 

0.0 

2.1 

2.1 

2.4 

3.8 

New  Mexico 

7.7 

7.1 

1 1.4 

11.5 

10.1 

11.0 

Utah 

7.5 

0.0 

12.6 

11.2 

10.8 

5.7 

Wyomi ng 

5.7 

6.2 

9.6 

7.8 

7.8 

5.6 

PACI FIC: 

Alaska 

0.3 

0.0 

0.4 

0.3 

0.4 

0.1 

California 

67.7 

67.9 

66.7 

50.1 

60.8 

73.6 

Hawa i i 

1.3 

0.2 

0.7 

2.8 

2.5 

5.3 

Oregon 

15.1 

11.1 

10.7 

23.5 

20.8 

8.0 

Wash i ngton 

15.7 

20.8 

21.5 

23.2 

15.5 

13.0 

225 


Table  A3--State  distribution  factors  for  expenses,  1992 


Farm  origin 

Manufactured 

i nputs 

State 

Feed 

:  Livestock  : 

:  and  poultry  : 

Seed 

:  Fertilizer 
:  and  l i me 

:  Pesticides  : 

Fuel 
and  oi l 

:  Electric 

Percent 

Northeast : 

Connect i cut 

2.6 

1 .6 

5.5 

1.3 

2.4 

3.1 

3.2 

Delaware 

10.7 

21.5 

4.0 

5.3 

5.4 

3.0 

2.3 

Mai  ne 

3.3 

1 .8 

5.0 

4.3 

5.9 

4.3 

3.8 

Maryland 

14.9 

26.4 

10.8 

16.1 

12.7 

10.0 

8.0 

Massachusetts 

1.7 

0.4 

3.0 

2.8 

3.6 

4.0 

3.0 

New  Hampshire 

1.1 

0.2 

1.2 

0.8 

0.7 

1.3 

1  .6 

New  Jersey 

1 .8 

1 .6 

9.1 

6.1 

8.5 

6.7 

4.5 

New  York 

23.6 

7.2 

27.1 

26.9 

29.6 

30.7 

32.2 

Pennsy Ivani a 

34.8 

36.9 

32.2 

33.2 

29.4 

32.8 

35.8 

Rhode  Island 

0.2 

0.1 

0.7 

0.5 

0.4 

0.5 

0.3 

Vermont 

5.4 

2.2 

1.4 

2.6 

1.4 

3.7 

5.3 

Lake  States: 

Michigan 

16.6 

13.4 

25.2 

26.2 

27.1 

22.0 

17.6 

Minnesota 

44.4 

78.3 

46.7 

46.6 

49.2 

45.9 

38.7 

Wi sconsi n 

39.0 

8.3 

28.1 

27.2 

23.7 

32.0 

43.7 

Corn  Belt: 

Illinois 

13.8 

14.3 

29.0 

30.2 

30.0 

27.0 

23.6 

I ndi ana 

17.5 

10.4 

15.5 

18.4 

16.4 

15.5 

16.3 

I  owa 

37.3 

63.7 

30.7 

25.3 

27.6 

28.1 

32.8 

Missouri 

17.6 

7.9 

10.6 

14.5 

12.1 

15.9 

13.4 

Ohi  o 

13.7 

3.7 

14.2 

11.7 

13.7 

13.6 

13.9 

Northern  Plains: 

Kansas 

44.3 

45.2 

21.3 

29.9 

25.0 

29.4 

24.5 

Nebraska 

39.9 

48.8 

37.1 

35.0 

30.8 

32.1 

41.7 

North  Dakota 

3.1 

1.3 

23.7 

23.9 

28.6 

21.2 

14.7 

South  Dakota 

12.7 

4.8 

17.9 

11.3 

15.5 

17.3 

19.1 

Appalachian: 

Kentucky 

10.0 

33.2 

23.1 

22.9 

19.5 

23.0 

22.7 

North  Carolina 

56.5 

37.0 

34.1 

33.4 

38.9 

38.1 

38.8 

Tennessee 

11.5 

13.7 

23.9 

19.9 

21.0 

18.6 

17.3 

Virginia 

18.8 

13.0 

17.1 

22.2 

18.6 

17.1 

17.9 

West  Virginia 

3.2 

3.2 

1.8 

1.6 

2.0 

3.3 

3.4 

Southeast : 

Alabama 

33.6 

42.0 

15.3 

15.7 

14.6 

20.4 

17.4 

Florida 

17.9 

11.0 

44.9 

34.4 

51.1 

33.6 

40.8 

Georg i a 

39.8 

39.2 

30.5 

35.6 

24.6 

32.7 

31.1 

South  Carolina 

8.7 

7.8 

9.2 

14.2 

9.7 

13.3 

10.7 

Delta  States: 

Arkansas 

61  .0 

70.3 

40.6 

39.8 

32.2 

46.4 

58.6 

Louisi ana 

10.1 

6.3 

33.0 

26.6 

31.4 

24.5 

17.5 

Mississippi 

28.9 

23.4 

26.5 

33.6 

36.4 

29.1 

23.9 

Southern  Plains: 

Oklahoma 

20.2 

31.1 

18.4 

23.7 

18.1 

23.7 

17.1 

T  exas 

79.8 

68.9 

81.6 

76.3 

81.9 

76.3 

82.9 

Mountain: 

Ar i zona 

12.9 

9.8 

9.4 

11.4 

22.2 

10.1 

17.0 

Colorado 

33.1 

55.7 

25.7 

16.1 

17.0 

22.3 

22.0 

I  daho 

19.0 

6.2 

33.6 

38.2 

24.0 

18.8 

26.8 

Montana 

8.1 

2.8 

15.5 

21.6 

23.8 

22.4 

10.7 

Nevada 

2.2 

0.6 

1.6 

0.8 

1.5 

2.8 

3.8 

New  Mexico 

13.5 

15.2 

5.9 

5.8 

4.9 

9.5 

8.7 

Utah 

7.0 

2.5 

4.3 

2.7 

3.3 

6.7 

6.4 

Wyomi ng 

4.2 

7.2 

3.9 

3.4 

3.4 

7.3 

4.8 

Pacific: 

Alaska 

0.1 

0.0 

0.1 

0.2 

0.0 

0.2 

0.1 

Cal i f orni a 

73.6 

73.1 

66.2 

58.8 

70.1 

65.9 

77.1 

Hawai i 

1 .4 

0.1 

2.8 

4.1 

2.4 

2.8 

1 .0 

Oregon 

7.8 

3.6 

12.2 

15.9 

10.3 

13.0 

8.6 

Washington 

17.1 

23.2 

18.7 

21.0 

17.2 

18.1 

13.2 

cont i nued- 


226 


Table  A3--State  distribution  factors  for  expenses,  1992 --continued 


Repair  and 
maintenance 

:  Operator  : 

:  dwelling  : 

Machine 

:  Marketing, 

:  storage. 

Interest 

excluding 

:  repair  and  : 

hire  and 

:  and 

Contract  :  Hired 

Real  estate 

:  Real  estate  : 

Region 

operator 

:  maintenance  : 

custom- 

:  transpor- 

labor  :  Labor 

excluding 

:  on  : 

Nonreal 

dwellings 

:  and  : 

work 

:  tation 

operator 

:  operator  : 

estate 

:  insurance  : 

: 

dwellings 

:  dwellings  : 

Percent 


Northeast: 


Connecticut 

3.1 

4.5 

2.9 

4.3 

4.8 

6.5 

3.0 

2.0 

2.8 

Delaware 

2.1 

2.0 

2.9 

5.6 

5.5 

2.2 

4.2 

3.1 

3.9 

Maine 

4.4 

4.8 

3.7 

4.5 

5.0 

5.2 

2.7 

2.9 

2.7 

Maryland 

10.4 

10.6 

11.7 

12.1 

9.8 

8.0 

15.7 

12.9 

15.2 

Massachusetts 

4.9 

6.6 

4.3 

4.3 

7.9 

6.7 

2.4 

2.0 

2.4 

New  Hampshire 

2.1 

4.2 

0.8 

1.3 

1.4 

1.8 

0.9 

0.6 

0.9 

New  Jersey 

7.7 

11.1 

6.1 

5.8 

14.5 

8.7 

6.4 

5.2 

6.2 

New  York 

25.4 

18.7 

25.6 

25.8 

20.6 

27.7 

23.1 

36.2 

25.6 

Pennsylvania 

34.7 

32.5 

38.5 

31.7 

28.5 

29.1 

36.5 

29.9 

35.2 

Rhode  Island 

0.5 

0.9 

0.2 

0.6 

0.5 

1.0 

0.4 

0.5 

0.4 

Vermont 

4.5 

4.1 

3.3 

4.0 

1.5 

3.2 

4.7 

4.7 

4.7 

Lake  States: 

Michigan 

23.3 

25.5 

18.6 

20.7 

41.9 

30.4 

20.5 

17.9 

20.1 

Minnesota 

40.7 

41.3 

49.1 

44.6 

32.8 

30.6 

48.0 

35.1 

46.1 

Wisconsin 

36.0 

33.3 

32.2 

34.6 

25.4 

39.1 

31.6 

47.0 

33.9 

Corn  Belt: 

Illinois 

20.7 

19.8 

25.3 

24.8 

17.2 

24.2 

25.8 

19.9 

25.3 

Indiana 

15.0 

18.1 

12.6 

14.6 

17.4 

17.3 

17.0 

19.8 

17.2 

Iowa 

25.0 

19.6 

34.4 

33.6 

22.4 

24.8 

30.5 

28.4 

30.3 

Missouri 

22.0 

21.1 

16.5 

13.4 

23.0 

14.5 

15.5 

16.3 

15.5 

Ohio 

17.3 

21.4 

11.1 

13.5 

20.0 

19.2 

11.3 

15.6 

11.6 

Northern  plains: 

Kansas 

33.3 

34.2 

34.2 

31.7 

37.9 

33.5 

30.6 

30.5 

30.6 

Nebraska 

30.1 

28.7 

31.5 

39.7 

32.8 

38.7 

34.9 

30.8 

34.6 

North  Dakota 

17.9 

14.7 

15.8 

14.0 

13.4 

13.8 

19.4 

23.8 

19.6 

South  Dakota 

18.7 

22.4 

18.4 

14.6 

15.9 

14.1 

15.2 

14.9 

15.2 

Appalachian: 

Kentucky 

29.7 

26.0 

26.7 

24.8 

21.7 

21.8 

28.3 

35.7 

29.2 

North  Carolina 

20.7 

21.8 

31.8 

39.9 

40.1 

39.0 

26.5 

22.7 

26.0 

Tennessee 

25.8 

25.8 

24.7 

16.2 

18.1 

16.1 

19.8 

16.3 

19.3 

Virginia 

18.0 

20.5 

14.8 

16.5 

16.5 

19.9 

20.1 

19.5 

20.0 

West  Virginia 

5.8 

5.8 

2.0 

2.6 

3.7 

3.2 

5.3 

5.8 

5.4 

Southeast : 

Alabama 

26.5 

28.0 

14.7 

19.9 

5.9 

10.8 

14.3 

17.6 

14.6 

Florida 

30.0 

25.1 

55.3 

43.2 

79.9 

62.8 

46.2 

38.8 

45.6 

Georgia 

29.1 

32.5 

21.7 

28.6 

9.6 

18.3 

29.8 

31.5 

29.9 

South  Carolina 

14.3 

14.5 

8.3 

8.3 

4.6 

8.1 

9.7 

12.1 

9.9 

Delta  States: 

Arkansas 

40.8 

32.3 

41.4 

50.9 

54.1 

42.8 

39.8 

48.6 

40.5 

Louisiana 

26.4 

24.6 

23.2 

20.4 

18.8 

26.4 

23.6 

20.7 

23.4 

Mississippi 

32.8 

43.0 

35.4 

28.7 

27.1 

30.8 

36.6 

30.6 

36.1 

Southern  Plains: 

Oklahoma 

26.7 

26.1 

22.2 

23.8 

15.1 

16.6 

28.1 

28.4 

28.2 

Texas 

73.3 

73.9 

77.8 

76.2 

84.9 

83.4 

71.9 

71.6 

71.8 

Mantain: 

Arizona 

8.1 

8.4 

17.8 

13.4 

26.7 

23.1 

10.2 

5.1 

9.9 

Colorado 

21.1 

21.4 

26.9 

29.4 

18.8 

19.2 

24.1 

30.6 

24.5 

Idaho 

17.1 

17.5 

23.7 

20.5 

18.0 

20.2 

18.4 

21.8 

18.6 

Montana 

22.1 

21.5 

15.1 

12.7 

8.9 

11.4 

23.9 

23.1 

23.8 

Nevada 

2.4 

2.5 

2.2 

2.0 

1.8 

3.8 

2.9 

2.6 

2.9 

New  Mexico 

11.2 

10.6 

6.0 

11.0 

13.8 

11.0 

9.3 

6.1 

9.0 

Utah 

10.3 

10.4 

4.3 

5.4 

5.3 

5.7 

6.0 

6.6 

6.0 

Wyoming 

7.7 

7.6 

4.1 

5.6 

6.7 

5.6 

5.3 

4.2 

5.2 

Pacific: 

Alaska 

0.2 

0.3 

0.1 

0.1 

0.0 

0.1 

0.3 

0.2 

0.3 

California 

55.6 

61.8 

79.2 

70.8 

88.2 

73.6 

66.8 

68.2 

67.0 

Hawai i 

1.6 

2.1 

1.7 

1.1 

0.6 

5.3 

3.0 

1.1 

2.7 

Oregon 

20.8 

20.1 

8.1 

10.0 

4.2 

8.0 

15.8 

15.6 

15.8 

Washington 

21.8 

15.7 

10.9 

18.0 

7.0 

13.0 

14.2 

14.8 

14.2 

continued-- 

227 


Table  A3--State  distribution  factors  for  expenses,  1992- -continued 


Miscellaneous  expenses 


Net  rent  to 


Region 

General 
production 
and  business 
expenses 

:  Other  : 

:  livestock  : 

:  and  poultry  : 

:  purchases  : 

Other  : 

livestock  : 
and  poultry  : 
expenses  : 

Livestock 

and 

poultry 

feeding 

:  Irrigation 
:  water  and 
:  drainage 
:  fees 

:  Insurance 
:  excluding 
:  operator 
:  dwellings 

:  Motor  vehicle  : 
:  registration  : 
:  and  licenses  : 

Gross 

income 

:  Expense 

Percent 

Northeast : 

Connecticut 

4.3 

11.7 

3.4 

0.0 

3.2 

3.8 

2.8 

2.6 

2.6 

Delaware 

5.6 

0.7 

6.4 

35.6 

3.2 

1.9 

2.1 

6.7 

2.3 

Maine 

4.5 

20.2 

4.3 

0.0 

0.0 

5.2 

4.8 

2.8 

1.6 

Maryland 

12.1 

11.3 

11.4 

40.6 

12.9 

9.2 

11.2 

21.0 

12.3 

Massachusetts 

4.3 

5.2 

1.9 

0.0 

0.0 

4.9 

4.3 

1.3 

2.0 

New  Hanpshire 

1.3 

0.9 

0.9 

0.0 

0.0 

1.8 

1.8 

1.1 

1.3 

New  Jersey 

5.8 

19.2 

2.7 

0.0 

29.0 

7.4 

5.7 

7.6 

7.5 

New  York 

25.8 

19.2 

27.1 

0.1 

35.5 

35.2 

26.9 

21.4 

24.3 

Pennsylvania 

31.7 

9.6 

36.2 

23.6 

9.7 

25.6 

35.0 

33.6 

42.9 

Rhode  Island 

0.6 

0.3 

0.2 

0.0 

6.5 

0.2 

0.5 

0.2 

0.5 

Vermont 

4.0 

1.6 

5.5 

0.0 

0.0 

4.8 

4.9 

1.8 

2.7 

Lake  States: 

Michigan 

20.7 

31.2 

14.3 

28.0 

0.9 

20.6 

22.3 

15.3 

26.7 

Minnesota 

44.6 

31.5 

39.1 

49.5 

89.7 

45.2 

41.8 

50.3 

38.7 

Wisconsin 

34.6 

37.4 

46.6 

22.4 

9.4 

34.2 

35.9 

34.4 

34.6 

Corn  Belt: 

Illinois 

24.8 

17.1 

16.4 

15.2 

19.0 

28.3 

19.6 

37.3 

38.7 

Indiana 

14.6 

11.7 

13.6 

13.0 

21.1 

14.2 

14.8 

14.6 

14.0 

Iowa 

33.6 

14.7 

41.9 

42.2 

6.5 

31.8 

25.9 

30.3 

28.4 

Missouri 

13.4 

29.9 

16.3 

15.9 

39.5 

14.3 

22.8 

8.8 

8.1 

Ohio 

13.5 

26.6 

11.8 

13.7 

13.9 

11.5 

17.0 

9.0 

10.7 

North  Plains: 

Kansas 

31.7 

29.1 

35.2 

43.1 

9.3 

27.3 

32.9 

26.4 

29.0 

Nebraska 

39.7 

32.5 

43.8 

44.9 

78.5 

30.8 

30.2 

33.0 

38.5 

North  Dakota 

14.0 

21.3 

5.8 

2.8 

3.9 

25.5 

18.1 

25.3 

19.9 

South  Dakota 

14.6 

17.1 

15.2 

9.3 

8.4 

16.4 

18.7 

15.3 

12.6 

Appalachian: 

Kentucky 

24.8 

73.6 

23.0 

5.0 

26.1 

38.5 

30.2 

36.5 

53.4 

North  Carolina 

39.9 

8.8 

39.3 

55.5 

37.3 

25.6 

21.6 

28.8 

20.2 

Tennessee 

16.2 

4.0 

14.9 

11.2 

12.4 

17.3 

28.0 

21.9 

13.3 

Virginia 

16.5 

12.5 

19.0 

23.7 

23.0 

15.5 

14.4 

11.6 

11.0 

West  Virginia 

2.6 

1.1 

3.8 

4.6 

1.2 

3.1 

5.8 

1.3 

2.0 

Southeast : 

Alabama 

19.9 

25.0 

33.9 

46.4 

0.0 

20.9 

30.6 

18.6 

17.0 

Florida 

43.2 

54.6 

19.1 

5.9 

99.8 

36.3 

21.9 

35.6 

47.8 

Georgia 

28.6 

15.9 

38.0 

42.1 

0.1 

29.2 

30.6 

29.0 

26.7 

South  Carolina 

8.3 

4.5 

9.0 

5.6 

0.0 

13.6 

17.0 

16.8 

8.5 

Delta  States: 

Arkansas 

50.9 

21.4 

58.2 

65.7 

5.0 

37.5 

40.9 

49.1 

58.5 

Louisiana 

20.4 

18.1 

12.6 

3.0 

85.1 

31.9 

24.7 

28.6 

23.2 

Mississippi 

28.7 

60.6 

29.2 

31.3 

9.9 

30.6 

34.4 

22.3 

18.4 

Southern  Plains: 

Oklahoma 

23.8 

26.3 

24.9 

18.0 

5.7 

20.3 

30.8 

16.5 

26.1 

Texas 

76.2 

73.7 

75.1 

82.0 

94.3 

79.7 

69.2 

83.5 

73.9 

Mocntain: 

Ari zona 

13.4 

20.1 

10.7 

11.5 

32.4 

6.9 

5.7 

6.0 

6.2 

Colorado 

29.4 

12.4 

35.4 

45.1 

13.4 

26.5 

22.8 

21.9 

26.2 

Idaho 

20.5 

21.9 

14.1 

15.2 

24.5 

22.7 

18.6 

30.3 

29.9 

Montana 

12.7 

12.6 

11.0 

9.7 

9.6 

23.5 

22.7 

23.6 

17.6 

Nevada 

2.0 

1.8 

2.4 

2.0 

3.2 

1.9 

2.1 

0.7 

1.4 

New  Mexico 

11.0 

7.9 

12.5 

7.8 

4.2 

6.5 

10.2 

7.2 

3.4 

Utah 

5.4 

16.1 

6.7 

1.7 

6.4 

5.7 

9.9 

3.7 

7.7 

Wyoming 

5.6 

7.2 

7.3 

7.0 

6.2 

6.3 

8.1 

6.6 

7.6 

Pacific: 

Alaska 

0.1 

0.9 

0.1 

0.0 

0.0 

0.1 

0.1 

0.1 

0.1 

California 

70.2 

45.2 

67.7 

66.4 

87.5 

67.8 

49.9 

58.0 

56.4 

Hawaii 

1.9 

0.4 

1.0 

0.2 

0.1 

2.7 

1.1 

3.1 

4.6 

Oregon 

10.0 

21.3 

10.7 

13.6 

3.1 

11.1 

23.7 

12.7 

19.0 

Washington 

17.8 

32.1 

20.5 

19.8 

9.4 

18.4 

25.1 

26.1 

20.0 

contirued- 


228 


Table  A3--State  distribution  factors  for  expenses,  1992 --continued 


State 

Real  estate  : 

taxes  : 
excluding  : 
operator  : 
dwellings  : 

Real  estate  : 
taxes  on  : 
operator  : 
dwellings  : 

Personal 

property 

taxes 

Capital  consumption 

:  Operator  : 

:  dwellings  : 

Buildings  : 

Autos 

Trucks 

Tractors 

Machinery 

Percent 

Northeast: 

Connecticut 

3.4 

2.5 

4.5 

4.5 

3.2 

2.8 

2.8 

2.7 

2.3 

Delaware 

1.2 

0.9 

1.2 

2.0 

2.5 

2.2 

2.0 

1.8 

2.3 

Maine 

3.2 

5.2 

6.1 

4.8 

4.1 

4.4 

5.3 

4.7 

3.6 

Maryland 

7.1 

6.9 

9.4 

10.6 

9.2 

11.3 

11.0 

10.7 

9.7 

Massachusetts 

4.9 

4.5 

3.4 

6.6 

5.1 

3.8 

4.9 

4.5 

2.7 

New  Hampshire 

2.1 

3.5 

1.5 

4.2 

2.9 

1.6 

2.0 

1.9 

1.3 

New  Jersey 

8.5 

5.5 

3.4 

11.1 

9.6 

5.4 

5.9 

5.7 

4.0 

New  York 

36.7 

36.5 

27.7 

18.7 

23.2 

27.4 

26.4 

26.7 

32.7 

Pennsylvania 

27.9 

28.8 

35.7 

32.5 

35.3 

35.5 

34.4 

36.1 

36.8 

Rhode  Island 

0.6 

0.7 

0.8 

0.9 

0.7 

0.4 

0.5 

0.4 

0.2 

Vermont 

4.5 

5.0 

6.3 

4.1 

4.2 

5.0 

4.7 

4.8 

4.5 

Lake  States: 

Michigan 

30.9 

33.8 

22.4 

25.5 

21.4 

21.3 

23.6 

24.2 

20.8 

Minnesota 

30.5 

23.7 

22.2 

41.2 

39.3 

42.6 

40.7 

39.9 

41.9 

Wisconsin 

38.6 

42.5 

55.4 

33.3 

39.3 

36.1 

35.7 

35.9 

37.4 

Com  Belt: 

Illinois 

35.7 

25.6 

17.5 

19.8 

19.8 

19.8 

19.3 

19.0 

27.7 

Indiana 

13.0 

18.2 

29.4 

18.1 

17.4 

14.6 

15.0 

15.0 

15.8 

Iowa 

33.8 

25.7 

29.3 

19.6 

25.0 

27.3 

24.1 

24.0 

30.5 

Missouri 

6.3 

10.4 

18.2 

21.1 

17.4 

21.3 

24.7 

23.7 

11.3 

Ohio 

11.3 

20.2 

5.5 

21 .4 

20.4 

17.0 

17.0 

18.3 

14.7 

Northern  Plains: 

Kansas 

31.1 

37.6 

41.9 

34.2 

26.6 

31.6 

34.6 

34.4 

28.9 

Nebraska 

36.5 

31.3 

24.9 

28.7 

32.6 

30.9 

29.3 

29.5 

28.4 

North  Dakota 

17.2 

13.9 

11.2 

14.7 

16.4 

18.2 

18.0 

17.6 

26.2 

South  Dakota 

15.3 

17.2 

21.9 

22.3 

24.4 

19.2 

18.1 

18.5 

16.6 

Appalachian: 

Kentucky 

20.8 

20.5 

23.3 

26.0 

29.1 

30.2 

30.2 

30.4 

33.5 

North  Carolina 

31.0 

29.4 

31.7 

21.8 

20.4 

22.9 

20.2 

19.7 

21.8 

Tennessee 

24.5 

28.2 

18.6 

25.8 

20.8 

26.8 

29.2 

28.8 

23.5 

Virginia 

21.2 

18.9 

22.0 

20.5 

24.4 

14.6 

14.3 

14.6 

17.7 

West  Virginia 

2.4 

2.9 

4.4 

5.8 

5.3 

5.5 

6.2 

6.6 

3.5 

Southeast : 

Alabama 

8.9 

16.0 

12.3 

28.0 

24.2 

30.3 

30.9 

30.2 

24.3 

Florida 

57.1 

31.3 

34.4 

25.1 

32.1 

20.8 

22.9 

22.7 

26.2 

Georgia 

26.5 

41.0 

44.7 

32.5 

31.0 

31.0 

30.2 

30.5 

34.1 

South  Carolina 

7.5 

11.7 

8.6 

14.5 

12.7 

17.9 

16.1 

16.5 

15.4 

Delta  States: 

Arkansas 

51.3 

43.2 

48.7 

32.3 

43.1 

40.1 

41.6 

39.9 

40.4 

Louisiana 

23.3 

21.3 

12.4 

24.6 

23.6 

23.7 

25.6 

26.7 

28.4 

Mississippi 

25.4 

35.6 

38.8 

43.0 

33.3 

36.2 

32.8 

33.4 

31.2 

Southern  Plains: 

Oklahoma 

18.5 

23.7 

35.9 

26.1 

26.2 

32.6 

29.4 

27.9 

19.5 

Texas 

81.5 

76.3 

64.1 

73.9 

73.8 

67.4 

70.6 

72.1 

80.5 

Mountain: 

Arizona 

8.0 

3.9 

9.8 

8.4 

9.2 

4.9 

6.6 

5.8 

5.5 

Colorado 

24.9 

28.0 

13.7 

21.4 

20.5 

23.6 

21.9 

22.3 

25.9 

Idaho 

21.7 

26.2 

17.4 

17.5 

16.5 

19.2 

17.8 

18.6 

23.3 

Montana 

24.5 

21.5 

35.8 

21.5 

23.9 

24.0 

21.3 

21.9 

23.3 

Nevada 

2.1 

1.3 

3.0 

2.5 

2.7 

2.0 

2.2 

2.0 

2.2 

New  Mexico 

4.8 

2.9 

5.3 

10.6 

11.4 

9.2 

11.2 

9.9 

5.6 

Utah 

5.9 

8.3 

7.7 

10.4 

8.8 

8.9 

11.0 

11.6 

7.7 

Wyoming 

8.1 

8.1 

7.3 

7.6 

7.0 

8.2 

8.1 

7.8 

6.3 

Pacific: 

Alaska 

0.2 

0.2 

0.1 

0.4 

0.4 

0.3 

0.4 

0.3 

0.3 

California 

58.7 

47.2 

69.8 

61.5 

64.7 

48.3 

49.9 

48.8 

57.4 

Hawaii 

5.8 

3.7 

1.5 

2.5 

2.2 

2.5 

2.8 

1.7 

3.3 

Oregon 

18.0 

30.4 

7.6 

19.9 

16.2 

22.9 

23.6 

24.2 

16.0 

Washington 

17.3 

18.4 

21.0 

15.6 

16.5 

26.0 

23.3 

25.0 

23.0 

229 


Issues  for  the  1990’s 

ERS’  newest  series,  Issues  for  the  1990’s,  brings 
you  2-page  factsheets  with  the  information  you 
need  in  an  efficiently  organized  format.  These 
reports  streamline  research  topics,  graphically 
present  the  latest  USDA  data  and  analyses,  and 
target  the  most  important  agricultural  issues  you’ll 
face  in  this  decade. 

The  series  offers  over  80  timely  factsheets  dealing 
with  the  following  issues: 

■  Trade 

■  Conservation 

■  Commodity  programs 

■  Marketing 

■  Food  and  nutrition 

■  Rural  economy 

■  Environment 

■  Technology 


Subscribers  to  this  series  receive  the  first  set  of 
reports  in  an  attractive  3-ring  binder.  Future 
reports  will  be  sent  as  they  are  released,  along 
with  an  updated  index  to  help  you  keep  your 
binder  up-to-date.  All  this  for  only  $24.50.  For 
foreign  addresses  (including  Canada),  the  price  is 
just  $31. 

To  order  your  Issues  for  the  1990’s,  just  dial 
ERS-NASS  at  1-800-999-6779  and  ask  for  Issues 
for  the  1990’s  (ISSUE  90) 

Other  areas,  please  call 
1-703-834-0125,  or  FAX 
to  ERS-NASS  at 
1-703-834-0110. 


ERS  CD-ROM 


Electronic  Data  Products  on 
CD-ROM 


New  from  ERS,  this  innovative  database  combines 
files  from  1 1 8  ERS  electronic  data  products  on  a 
standard  CD-ROM  disc.  Included  on  the  disc  are  over 
6,500  Lotus  1-2-3  worksheet  (.WK1)  files,  ASCII  text 
files  describing  each  data  product,  and  easy-to-use 
software  to  locate  and  download  files  for  use  with  your 
favorite  analytical  package. 

Data  on  the  disc  cover  all  aspects  of  domestic  and 
international  agriculture  and  rural  affairs.  Worksheet 
files  are  included  from  some  of  our  most  popular 
products:  crop  yearbooks;  dairy  and  poultry  statistics; 
specialty  agriculture;  state  and  national  farm  income; 
costs  of  production;  world  agriculture  trends  and 
indicators;  and  much,  much  more! 


Data  products  included  on  the  diskette  are  indicated  in 
the  listing  beginning  on  page  5  of  this  catalog.  For  a 
complete  listing  of  products  on  the  CD-ROM,  by  stock  # 
and  title,  dial  the  ERS  AutoFAX  system  at 
1-202-219-1 107  from  your  fax  machine  and  ask  for 
document  #1019.  Or  call  the  CALL-ERS/NASS  bulletin 
board  from  your  computer  at  1-800-821-6229  and 
download  the  "Data  Products  Catalog"  file. 


To  order  the  CD-ROM ,  call  1-800-999-6779 
and  ask  for  ERS  Data  Products  on  CD-ROM,  stock 
#  93050.  Price  is  just  $150  (a  savings  of  95%  over 
the  cost  of  separate  diskettes).  Or  order  from: 

ERS-NASS 

341  Victory  Drive 

Herndon,  VA  22070 

Note:  Requires  IBM  PC  or  compatible  computer,  CD-ROM  reader, 
and  MS-DOS  CD-ROM  extensions. 


CAN  YOU  USE  AN  ELECTRONIC  DATABASE? 


An  electronic  database  containing  the  data  in  this  report  is  available.  This 
database  is  in  the  form  of  Lotus  1-2-3  (.WK1)  files  on  DOS-compatible  diskettes. 

To  order,  just  dial  1-800-999-6779.  Toll  free.  (Other  areas  call 
1-703-834-0125.) 

Ask  for  National  Financial  Summary,  stock  #8801 0A  (5.25"  disks,  $45)  or  stock 
#8801 0B  (3.5"  disk,  $25).  Charge  your  purchase  to  your  VISA  or  MasterCard,  or 
we  can  bill  you  (10%  surcharge).  Please  add  25  percent  for  shipping  to  foreign 
addresses  (includes  Canada).  Or  send  a  check  or  purchase  order  (made  payable 
to  ERS-NASS)  to: 

ERS-NASS 
341  Victory  Drive 
Herndon,  VA  22070 

For  further  information  about  this  database,  write  to  Cheryl  Steele,  Room  940, 

1301  New  York  Avenue,  NW,  Washington,  DC  20005-4788  or  phone 
202-219-0804. 

ERS  electronic  databases  are  also  available  on  the  world  wide  Internet  through  a 
cooperative  project  between  ERS  and  the  Albert  R.  Mann  Library  at  Cornell 
University.  For  access: 

I  1 .  Gopher  client-gopher  usda.mannlib.cornell.edu  70. 

I  2.  Telnet-telnet  usda.mannlib.cornell.edu  and  login  as 
"usda"  (no  password  is  needed).  This  will  connect  you  to 
the  Gopher  with  the  basic  Unix  client. 

I  3.  FTP-ftp  usda.mannlib.cornell.edu,  login  as  "anonymous" 
with  your  ID  name  or  e-mail  address  as  the  password,  then 
cd  usda. 

For  further  information  about  Internet  access  methods,  please  write  to  Oya  Rieger, 
Albert  R.  Mann  Library,  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  NY  14853-4301 
(oyrl@cornell.edu)  or  phone  607-255-7960. 


United  States 
Department  of  Agriculture 

1301  New  York  Avenue,  NW 
Washington,  DC  20005-4789 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 

Penalty  for  Private  Use,  $300 


BULK  RATE 

POSTAGE  &  FEES  PAID 
USDA 

PERMIT  NO.  G-145 


V\  Want  to  Subscribe?  /  Time  to  Renew? 


'.W.V.W/.V/.VW.VW/.V.V/WAV.', 


.■.V.V/.’.V.V.V.-.V.V.V.VA-.W.VW 


Subscribe  to  Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector  today!  If  you  already  subscribe  to  this  timely 
periodical,  note  that  expiration  information  about  your  subscription  appears  on  the  top  line  of  your  mailing  label. 
Expiration  information  will  appear  in  one  of  two  formats:  1  -ECI-2  (this  means  you  have  TWO  issues  re- 
maining  in  your  subscription)  or  APR95  (expiration  date  is  April  1995).  Disregard  this  notice  if  no  renewal  infor¬ 
mation  appears.  Call  toll  free,  1-800-999^6779,  and  tell  us  whether  you  want  to  subscribe  or  renew  or  return  this 
form  to:  ERS-NASS,  341  Victory  Drive,  Herndon,  VA  22070. 


Economic  Indicators  of  the  Farm  Sector 


1  Year  2  Years  3  Years 

□  Yes!  I  want  to  Start  my  subscription.  Domestic:  □  $19.00  Q  $36.00  □  $54.00 

□  Yes!  I  want  to  renew  my  subscription.  Foreign:  □  $23.75  □  $45.0  □  $67.50 

New  subscribers:  Renewals: 

Name:  _ 

Address: _ 

City,  State,  Zip: _ 

Daytime  phone:  ( _ ) 


Use  purchase  orders,  checks  drawn  on  U.S.  banks  (and  in  U.S.  funds), 
cashier’s  checks,  or  international  money  orders.  Make  payable  to  ERS- 
NASS.  Please  do  not  send  cash. 


Payment  method: 

□  Bill  me. 

□  Enclosed  is  $ 


ATTACH  MAILING  LABEL  HERE 


Credit  card  orders:  □  MasterCard  □  Visa  Total  charges  $. 


Credit  card 
number: 


Card  expiration 
date: 


For  fastest  service,  call  our  toll-free  order  desk  1-800-999-6779 
in  the  U.S.  and  Canada;  other  areas  please  call  703-834-0125, 
or  FAX  this  page  to  703-834-0110. 


Month/Year 


