Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  Office  of  Communications  Washington,  DC  20250-1340 


Letter  No.  2662 


May  13,  1994 

■  • 


DEFINING  HEALTHY  FOODS  --  The  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  has  joined  with  the 
Department  of  Health  and  Human  Service's  Food  and  Drug  Administration  in  determining 
when  the  word  "healthy"  can  be  used  on  food  labels.  To  qualify,  the  new  rules  specify  that 
the  food  products  must  meet  low  levels  of  fat  and  saturated  fat.  The  amount  of  cholesterol 
and  sodium  is  restricted.  The  foods  must  contain  at  least  10  percent  of  the  daily  value  of 
either  vitamin  A,  vitamin  C,  iron,  calcium,  protein  or  fiber.  The  term  "healthy"  can  also  be 
used  on  raw  meat  and  poultry  products  that  meet  USDA's  definition  for  "extra  lean." 
Processors  have  until  November  1995  to  reformulate  products  and  labels  to  meet  the 
definition.  The  Food  and  Drug  administration,  which  regulates  all  foods  other  than  meat  and 
poultry,  has  set  January  1996  as  its  compliance  date  for  pre-existing  products.  The  rules 
are  in  response  to  the  Nutrition  Labeling  and  Education  Act  of  1990  to  ensure  that  claims 
used  on  food  are  truthful  and  not  misleading.  Contact:  Steve  Kinsella  (202)  720-4623. 


REPORT  CHANGES  -  The  format  of  USDA's  World  Agricultural  Supply  and  Demand 
Estimates  has  been  changed.  Certain  reports  and  tables  are  now  located  in  other  sections 
of  the  main  report,  some  reports  are  presented  in  a  new  format,  and  others  discontinued. 
The  changes  coincide  with  a  new  release  time  of  8:30  a.m.  ET,  part  of  a  one-year  trial  of 
releasing  certain  market-sensitive  reports  in  the  morning  hour.  The  information  will  be 
available  on  USDA's  Computerized  Information  Delivery  System  (CIDS).  The  cotton  report, 
however,  is  held  until  the  full  report  is  release  at  the  usual  3:00  p.m.  time.  USDA's  Crop 
Production  Report  will  also  have  format  changes  and  be  released  at  8:30  a.m.  on  CIDS.  The 
full  report  will  be  available  at  3:00  p.m.  on  the  reporting  day.  Contact:  Raymond  Bridge 
(202)  720-5447. 


HELPING  MINORITY  FARMERS  —  Agriculture  Secretary  Mike  Espy  is  taking  steps  designed 
to  stop  discrimination  and  reverse  past  trends  of  declining  farm  ownership  by  African- 
Americans  and  socially  disadvantaged  farmers.  Local  offices  of  Farmer's  Home 
Administration  (FmHA)  have  been  directed  to  use  100  percent  of  operating  and  ownership 
loans  targeted  to  socially  disadvantaged  farmers,  and  increase  the  percentage  of  farms  sold 
or  leased  to  the  group.  FmHA  will  also  report  to  the  Secretary  its  outreach  activities  and 
accomplishments.  Espy  has  worked  closely  with  Congress  to  ensure  funding  for  assistance 
to  socially  disadvantaged  farmers.  More  than  $495  million  has  been  appropriated  to  minority 
farmer  programs.  Espy  says  he  is  working  to  enforce  the  strongest  Equal  Opportunity  and 
Civil  Rights  policy  in  the  history  of  USDA.  Contact:  Leslie  Parker  (202)  720-2798. 

MARKET  PROMOTION  --  USDA  Market  Promotion  Program  funds  of  $100  million  have  been 
allocated  to  59  commodity  groups  and  regional  trade  organizations  for  fiscal  year  1 994.  The 
funds  provide  priority  assistance  to  small  businesses  and  offset  unfair  trading  practices. 
Later  this  year  opportunities  will  be  announced  for  U.S.  firms  to  participate  in  USDA's  Export 
Incentive  Program.  Contact:  Tom  Amontree  (202)  720-4623. 


2 


WILDERNESS  RESEARCH  INSTITUTE  --  Dr.  David  Parsons  has  been  appointed  as  director 
of  the  Aldo  Leopold  Wilderness  Research  Institute,  in  Missoula,  Montana.  He  assumes  the 
post  on  May  16.  Parsons  was  a  research  scientist  with  the  National  Biological  Survey  in 
Three  Rivers,  California.  The  Institute  is  an  interagency  research  organization.  It  conducts 
research  into  use  and  management  of  wilderness;  coordinates  research  efforts  among 
government  agencies,  schools  and  private  organizations;  and  provides  technical  assistance 
on  international  wilderness-related  issues.  Contact:  John  Denne  (202)  205-0974. 

TREE  ASSISTANCE  SIGNUP  --  Nursery  owners  have  an  opportunity  to  sign  up  for  1993 
losses  of  nursery  inventory  under  the  Tree  Assistance  Program.  The  signup  will  be  held 
through  July  29,  1 994.  Under  the  program  the  Commodity  Credit  Corporation  will  reimburse 
eligible  small  and  medium  scale  commercial  growers  up  to  65  percent  of  costs  for  weather- 
related  loss  of  annual  and  perennials  that  exceeds  an  adjusted  amount.  Application  and 
payments  will  be  made  through  county  offices  of  USDA's  Agricultural  Stabilization  and 
Conservation  Service.  Payments  for  losses  cannot  exceed  $25,000  per  person.  Contact: 
Bruce  Merkle  (202)  720-8206. 

REDUCING  COSTS  --  USDA  has  examined  its  dairy  product  laboratory  procedures  and 
applied  new  efficiencies  in  administering  product  tests.  The  payoff  is  a  proposed  reduction 
in  charges.  Certain  procedures  can  now  be  conducted  in  half  the  time  previously  required. 
USDA  can  charge  less  for  those  tests.  Under  the  law  the  USDA  dairy  product  testing 
program  must  be  self  supporting.  Contact:  Clarence  Steinberg  (202)  720-6179. 

HELPFUL  NEMATODES  -  A  new  nematode  species  found  in  the  Rio  Grande  Valley  of  Texas 
is  being  used  to  control  citrus  root  weevil.  Orange,  grapefruit,  lemon  and  lime  growers  lose 
millions  of  dollars  annually  in  crop  damage  caused  by  the  weevil.  In  greenhouse  tests  the 
newly  found  nematode  killed  80  percent  of  weevil  larvae,  compared  to  60  percent  killed  by 
current  nematode  species.  Contact:  William  Schroeder  (407)  897-7379. 

FARMWORKER  EARNINGS  --  The  national  economy  ended  1993  on  a  high  note,  with 
increases  in  rural  and  urban  employment.  Rural  unemployment  dropped  in  the  fouth  quarter 
of  1993,  but  remained  higher  than  before  the  recession.  But  latest  figures  show  that  the 
weekly  earnings  of  full-time  hired  farmworkers  in  1992  averaged  $240,  about  half  of  the 
$446  earned  by  other  wage  and  salary  workers.  Only  private  household  workers  averaged 
lower  weekly  earnings  than  farmworkers.  Contact:  Linda  Ghelfi  (202)  219-0520. 

WATCH  THE  CALORIES  -  It  is  very  difficult  to  conduct  food  restriction  studies  on  people, 
therefore  scientists  conduct  tests  on  animals  whose  systems  similarly  use  nutrients.  When 
rats  are  fed  a  copper-deficient  diet  containing  high  levels  of  sugar,  the  rats  suffer  damage 
to  the  heart  and  pancreas,  become  anemic  and  die  prematurely.  By  reducing  the  food  intake 
to  amounts  normally  consumed,  USDA  scientists  significantly  reduced  the  symptoms  of 
copper  deficiency  and  the  rats  lived  throughout  the  10-week  study.  Using  test  animals  has 
provided  important  findings.  Studies  in  test  animals  have  resulted  in  prevention  of  cancer 
and  age-related  diseases  as  well  as  doubled  the  animals'  life  span.  Contact:  Sam  Bhathena 
(301)  504-8422. 


Complaint  or  comment?  Use  these  numbers: 

Radio-TV  1202)  720-4330  Radio-TV  FAX  (202)  690-2165  AgNewsFAX  (202)  690-3944 


3 


FROM  OUR  RADIO  SERVICE 


WEEKLY  CASSETTE: 

AGRICULTURE  USA  #1927  -  Mosquitoes  still  pose  a  threat  to  public  health  around  the 
world,  but  some  people  say  the  current  methods  of  controlling  the  pests  pose  a  similar 
threat.  Jim  Henry  talks  with  experts  about  new  environmentally  friendly  methods  of  control. 
(Weekly  reel  --  13-1/2  minute  documentary.) 

CONSUMER  TIME  #1408  --  Pollution  and  your  lawn  mower;  tips  for  growing  great  roses; 
getting  started  with  "birding";  more  seafood  from  farms;  kenaf  products  gaining  ground. 
(Weekly  reel  of  2-1/2  to  3  minute  consumer  features.) 

AGRITAPE  FEATURES  #1 91 9  -  First  grain  estimates  for  the  new  year;  big  opportunities  for 
U.S.  cotton;  outlook  good  for  aquaculture;  low  input  forage;  stubborn  forage  plant;  fungus 
protects  potatoes;  tree  assistance  program.  (Weekly  reel  of  features.) 


USDA  RADIO  NEWSLINE: 

During  the  period  May  1 6-23  we  expect  to  have  statements  from  Secretary  Espy's  trip  to 
South  America.  Days  of  the  feeds  and  content  are  unknown  at  the  time  of  FBL  deadline. 
Check  the  newsline  every  day  of  that  week. 

Wednesday,  May  18,  ag  outlook  summary;  Thursday,  May  19,  catfish  processing,  outlook 
for  former  Soviet  Union;  Friday,  May  20,  cattle  on  feed,  livestock  and  dairy  outlook,  wheat 
outlook;  Monday,  May  23,  trade  update;  Tuesday,  May  24/  crop  &  weather  update,  feed 
outlook;  Thursday,  May  26,  cotton  &  wool  outlook;  Friday,  May  27,  ag  export  outlook. 
Monday,  May  30,  HOLIDAY.  These  are  the  USDA  reports  we  know  about  in  advance.  Our 
Newsline  carries  many  stories  every  day  which  are  not  listed  in  this  lineup.  Please  don't  let 
the  lack  of  a  story  listing  keep  you  from  calling. 

USDA  RADIO  NEWSLINE  (202)  488-8358  or  8359 
COMREX  ENCODED  (202)  720-2545 

Materia!  changed  at  5  p.m.,  EDT,  each  working  day. 


FROM  OUR  TELEVISION  SERVICE 

FEATURES  -  Lynn  Wyvill  reports  on  safe  use  of  cutting  boards,  with  information  about 
USDA's  meat  and  poultry  hotline.  2:00.  Additional  soundbites  by  Susan  Conley,  USDA 
meat  and  poultry  hotline  manager,  on  the  safe  use  of  cutting  boards  (with  B-roll).  4:00. 
Patrick  O'Leary  reports  on  National  Public  Service  Recognition  week  ceremonies  in 
Washington,  D.C.  Government  agencies  such  as  USDA  observed  the  occasion  to  educate 
the  public  about  the  diversity  of  its  missions.  1 :53. 

Eric  Parsons  reports  on  ASCS  1993  dairy  refunds  to  producers  that  totaled  more  than  $80 
million.  2:00. 

Joe  Courson,  University  of  Georgia  Cooperative  Extension  Service,  reports  on  a  strawberry 
grower  whose  niche  farming  enterprise  is  unique,  growing  strawberries  on  plastic.  1 :30. 

On  Satellite  Galaxy  7,  transponder  9,  channel  9f  audio  6.2  or  6. S,  downlink  frequency  3880 
MHz.:  Thursdays  from  3:45  -  4:00  p.m.,  ET;  Mondays  1 1:00  -  1 1:15  a.m.,  ET. 


4 


OFFMIKE 


GROWING  CONDITIONS. ..have  been  quite  cool  this  spring,  says  Don  Wick  (KWOA,  Worthington, 
MN).  Recent  snows  did  not  hurt  crops,  and  added  needed  moisture.  The  soils  are  in  great  shape, 
what's  needed  are  warmer  temperatures.  Don  is  chairing  an  Idea  Exchange  at  the  NAFB  North 
Central  region  meeting  in  Yankton,  June  2-4  on  ways  to  improve  the  ag  broadcasting  business. 
Don  is  also  chairing  NAFB's  professional  improvement  effort.  He's  planning  a  seminar  on  The 
Future  of  Farm  Broadcasting,  looking  down  the  road  5-10  years. 

A  GOOD  SUMMER. ..is  needed,  says  Von  Keteisen  (KOEl,  Oelwein,  IA).  Spring  has  been  quite 
variable,  highs  near  80  degrees,  and  wind  chills  to  14.  He  reports  producer  attitudes  as  one  of 
cautious  optimism.  Von  is  CHATS  editor.  He  recently  drove  to  Illinois  to  meet  with  NAFB 
historian  Art  Sechrest  (WJBC,  Bloomington)  to  review  early  ag  broadcaster  photos  in  the 
collection  at  the  University  of  Illinois.  Von  has  been  producing  the  NAFB  REFLECTIONS  section  in 
the  CHATS  newsletter.  Von  says  we'll  be  seeing  the  results  of  his  trip. 


Farm  Broadcasters  Letter 


Office  of  Communications 
Room  528A 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Washington,  D.C.  20250-1340 


OFFICIAL  BUSINESS 
Penalty  for  Private  Use  $300 


A  COMPUTER  CONTROLLED... digital  audio  system  has  been  installed  to  activate  automated 
playback  systems  and  improve  recording  quality,  says  Max  Armstrong  (WGN/T ribune  Radio 
Network,  Chicago).  Automatic  re-feeds  of  one-minute  market  reports  and  the  Midwest  Market 
Close  are  also  featured.  The  network's  Midwest  Livestock  Report  has  been  moved  from  1 1:47 
a.m.  to  Noon. 

MILD  WINTER  CONDITIONS. ..were  apparently  nice  to  insects,  says  Hap  Larson  (KBUF,  Garden 
City,  KS).  The  wheat  crop  is  looking  good,  but  producers  are  concerned  about  an  outbreak  of 
Russian  wheat  aphids.  If  pest  problems  remain  small  the  crop  could  come  in  above  average.  In 
Garden  City  next  month  Hap  and  his  station  will  be  covering  the  26th  annual  Beef  on  Fridays 
cattle  judging  contest.  Congratulations  to  Hap.  The  Kansas  Association  of  County  Agricultural 

vard  honoring  his  outstanding  support  of  county  agents. 


VIC  POWELL 

Office  of  Communications 


