Historic,  archived  document 


Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


m mm  * 

Inside 

Information 


United  States  Department 
of  Agriculture 

Office  of  Public  Affairs 

Washington , D.C.  20250 


Volume  12,  Number  8 


August,  1990 


Inside  This  “INSIDE”  / 

Secretary  of  Agriculture  Yeutter  Names  New  USDA  Public  Affairs  Director 

Animal  & Plant  Health  Inspection  Service  has  Opening  for  Assistant  Director 

Two  Positions  Available  in  Agricultural  Communication  at  Purdue  University 

ACE  Western  Regional  Meeting  Will  be  Held  in  Denver,  Colorado,  Oct.  4-6 

FiY.t  Internat’l  Teleconference  on  Natural  Resource  Management  in  the  Americas 
GPO  has  Report  Available  on  ‘Use  of  Alkaline  Paper  in  Government  Printing’  . . . 

E-Mail  Use  Expanding  Rapidly;  Explosive  Growth  Result  of  Major  Benefits 

Ohio  State  University  Information  and  Applied  Communications  Seeks  Editor 
ACE  Presents  its  Most  Prestigious  Awards  for  1990  at  International  Conference. . 
Calendar  of  Upcoming  Communication  Events  and  Training  Opportunities  


Page 
. 2 
. 2 
. 3 
. . 3 
. . 3 
. . 4 
. . 4 
. . 5 
. . 5 
. . 7 


INSIDE  INFORMATION  is  published  for  distribution  to  public  affairs  and  information  staff  members  of  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  its  agencies,  State  Departments  of  Agriculture  and  Land  Grant  Universities. 
Individual  Items  are  sent  electronically  throughout  the  month  to  offices  on  the  agricultural  information  network 
on  the  Dialcom  Incorporated  computer  system.  These  items  are  then  printed  at  the  end  of  the  month  for  distri- 
bution to  all  offices,  including  those  which  do  not  have  access  to  the  Dialcom  mail  network.  Any  items, 
comments  or  inquiries  should  be  sent  to  Denver  Browning,  Editor,  Programs  and  Planning,  Office  of  Public 
Affairs,  Room  536A,  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  DC  20250,  or  send  to  Browning’s  Dialcom 
mailbox  AGR209,  or  call  at  (202)  447-2058.  Communicators  with  USDA  agencies,  Land-Grant  Universities  and 
State  Departments  of  Agriculture  are  encouraged  to  submit  items  to  the  editor  for  inclusion  in  both  the  elec- 
tronic and  printed  versions. 


***************+***********************+****************++*+******++************************ 

EDITOR’S  NOTE:  Although  timely  in  the  electronic  version,  some  job  announcements  may  reach  you  too  late 
in  hard  copy  due  to  the  shortness  of  deadlines.  Our  policy  is  to  include  all  electronic  items  in  the  end-of-month 
hard  copy. 


SECRETARY  OF  AGRICULTURE  YEUTTER  NAMES  NEW  USDA  PUBLIC  AFFAIRS  DIRECTOR 


Kelly  M.  Shipp  has  been  named  director  of  USDA’s  Office  of  Public  Affairs.  She  succeeds  Paul  E. 

Kindinger  who  has  accepted  an  endowed  chair  for  agriculture  at  the  Industrial  College  of  the  Armed  Forces,  a 
part  of  the  National  Defense  University  at  Ft.  McNair,  Washington,  D.C. 

Shipp  has  been  Secretary  of  Agriculture  Clayton  Yeutter’s  press  secretary  since  February  1989.  Secretary 
Yeutter  said  that  Shipp  has  excelled  as  USDA  spokeswoman  and  will  continue  to  hold  that  responsibility  in  her 
new  position  as  public  affairs  director. 

“Kelly  is  extraordinarily  capable,”  said  Secretary  Yeutter.  “Her  knowledge  of  the  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, media  relations,  and  international  trade  issues  will  be  a tremendous  asset  to  our  public  affairs  division. 

“It  is  very  important  that  we  fully  utilize  Kelly’s  superb  talents  during  this  crucial  period  for  American 
agriculture.  We  are  simultaneously  working  on  a new  farm  bill  and  international  disciplines  for  agricultural 
trade.  Kelly  has  the  qualifications  and  experience  to  work  skillfully  with  the  Congress  and  the  agriculture 
community  on  these  fundamental  issues.” 

The  Office  of  Public  Affairs  is  responsible  for  USDA’s  public  liaison,  intergovernmental  affairs,  press  and 
information  operations.  The  director  reports  directly  to  the  Secretary. 

Prior  to  being  named  Secretary  Yeutter’s  press  secretary,  Shipp  served  as  director  of  public  affairs  and 
press  secretary  to  Ambassador  Yeutter  when  he  served  as  U.S.  Trade  Representative  (1987-88).  Before  that 
she  was  press  secretary  to  U.S.  Rep.  Joseph  McDade  (Pa.)  (1985-86),  press  assistant  to  the  under  secretary  of 
agriculture  for  small  community  and  rural  development  (1984-85),  and  executive  assistant  to  the  director  of 
USDA’s  Office  of  Rural  Development  Policy  (1983-84). 

Shipp  was  raised  on  an  Illinois  farm  where  her  parents  continue  to  grow  corn  and  soybeans,  and  raise 
hogs.  She  received  her  bachelor’s  degree  in  communications  and  fine  arts  from  Bradley  University  at  Peoria, 

III. 

Kindinger  joined  the  ICAF  on  July  24  and  will  begin  instructing  during  the  fall  semester. 

“This  is  the  first  chair  for  agriculture  at  this  institution.  It  will  be  an  important  addition  to  their  curriculum,” 
Secretary  Yeutter  said.  “Paul  will  be  excellent  at  instructing  the  senior  military  and  civilian  decision  makers 
who  attend  this  university  on  the  important  role  that  agriculture  plays  in  the  global  community  and  for  our 
national  security.  We  are  proud  that  he  will  hold  this  prestigious  position. 

“Paul  has  served  us  well  since  joining  USDA  a year  ago,”  the  Secretary  continued.  “He  has  been  a key 
force  in  directing  and  mobilizing  the  newly  created  Office  of  Public  Affairs.  We  will  miss  him  in  that  role.” 

Kindinger  served  as  USDA  director  of  public  affairs  since  August  1989.  Prior  to  joining  USDA,  he  had  been 
director  of  the  Michigan  Department  of  Agriculture  since  1983. 

He  was  raised  on  a dairy,  hog  and  cash  crop  farm  near  Reading,  Mich.  He  received  his  bachelor’s  and 
master’s  degrees  in  agricultural  economics  from  Michigan  State  University  at  East  Lansing.  He  also  has  a 
doctorate  in  agricultural  economics  from  Cornell  University,  Ithaca,  N.Y. 


ANIMAL  & PLANT  HEALTH  INSPECTION  SERVICE  HAS  OPENING  FOR  ASSISTANT  DIRECTOR 

USDA’s  Animal  and  Plant  Health  Inspection  Service  has  an  opening  for  a GM-1035-14  assistant  director 
(supervisory  public  affairs  specialist)  for  Legislative  and  Public  Affairs,  Public  Information.  Announcement  No.  is 
M-590-90. 

Duties  include  participation  in  overall  formulation  of  legislative  and  public  affairs  policies  and  programs; 
leadership  and  supervision  in  planning,  development,  and  implementation  of  domestic  and  international 
communication  projects  and  campaigns;  and  providing  media  training  to  field  and  headquarters  personnel. 
Other  duties  are  cooperating  in  conducting  feasibility  studies  of  public  information  aspects  of  proposed  agricul- 
tural programs,  and  supervising  a staff  of  approximately  15  employees  engaged  in  a variety  of  public  affairs 
activities. 

Qualifications  include  1 year  of  specialized  experience  equivalent  in  level  of  difficulty  and  responsibility  to 
the  next  lower  grade  in  federal  service. 

To  apply,  contact:  USDA,  APHIS,  Field  Servicing  Office,  Field  Personnel  Services,  Butler  Square  West,  5th 
Floor,  100  North  Sixth  Street,  Minneapolis,  MN  55403.  Telephone  is  612-370-2187  (FTS  is  777-2187). 

For  more  information,  contact:  John  Duncan,  202-447-251 1 . 

Closing  date  is  August  20. 


2 


TWO  POSITIONS  AVAILABLE  IN  AGRICULTURAL  COMMUNICATION  AT  PURDUE  UNIVERSITY 


The  Agricultural  Communication  Service  at  Purdue  University  has  two  positions — agricultural  science 
writer/media  relations  specialist  and  agricultural  science  communicator— available. 

Qualifications  for  both  positions  include  a bachelor’s  degree  in  communications,  journalism,  English,  or 
scientific  field,  with  graduate  degree  preferred. 

The  agricultural  science  writer/media  relations  specialist  will  identify,  research,  write,  and  distribute  to 
state,  regional,  and  national  media  news  and  feature  stories  designed  for  the  general  public  and  specialized 
audiences;  consult  with  Purdue  scientists  and  develop  news  and  feature  stories  and  other  information;  develop 
state,  regional,  and  national  media  interest  in  Purdue  University  and  agricultural  research  by  visiting  media 
representatives  and  attending  scientific  conferences;  provide  media  relations  training  and  consultation  to 
Purdue  School  of  Agriculture  faculty,  staff,  and  administration  as  needed;  and  organize  special  events  such  as 
dignitary  visits  and  media  availabilities. 

The  agricultural  science  communicator  will  identify,  research  and  write  news  stories  and  features  designed 
for  the  general  public  and  specialized  audiences;  write,  edit,  and  coordinate  production  of  specialized  publica- 
tions for  the  Purdue  University  Agricultural  Experiment  Station,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  periodical 
FOREFRONT;  provide  writing  support  for  multi-media  and  video  productions  highlighting  science  and  research; 
and  support  all  functions  of  the  Agricultural  Communication  Service  as  needed. 

Salaries  are  commensurate  with  qualifications  and  experience. 

Submit  a letter  of  application,  resume,  and  the  names  of  four  persons  who  may  be  contacted  for  refer- 
ences to:  Dave  King,  Agricultural  Communication  Service,  Room  210,  AGAD,  Purdue  University,  West 
Lafayette,  IN  47907. 

Applications  will  be  accepted  until  a suitable  candidate  is  identified. 


ACE  WESTERN  REGIONAL  MEETING  WILL  BE  HELD  IN  DENVER,  COLORADO,  OCT.  4-6 

The  Western  Regional  Agricultural  Communicators  in  Education  (ACE)  meeting  and  workshop  will  be  held 
October  4-6  at  the  Denver  Airport  Sheraton  in  Colorado. 

Check  in  and  registration  will  be  held  from  1-4  p.m.  on  Thursday,  October  4,  followed  by  a material 
sharing  session  focusing  on  risk  assessment  video  tapes  and  print  materials  produced  by  Western  state  univer- 
sities and  special  interest  groups. 

Friday  sessions  include  “Risk  Perceptions  and  Risk  Realities”  (Pat  Kendall,  Ph.D,  R.D.,  Colorado  State 
University  Food  and  Nutrition  extension  specialist  who  writes  a regular  newspaper  column  on  food  issues  and 
is  a specialist  in  sociological  aspects  of  communicating  risk  to  the  lay  public);  ‘What  You  Don’t  Know  CAN  Hurt 
Yoj”  (Mary  O’Brien,  Ph.D.  staff  scientist  for  the  Journal  of  Pesticide  Reform-Northwest  Coalition  for  Alterna- 
tives to  Pesticides);  and  “Viewpoints,”  a panel  discussion.  A Friday  evening  dinner  will  feature  guest  speaker 
Ed  Marston,  editor  of  HIGH  COUNTRY  NEWS. 

Saturday  will  offer  a session,  “Statistics  for  the  Mathless,”  with  Cliff  Pereria,  biostatistician,  Oregon  State 
University  and  consultant  for  the  Oregon  Dept,  of  Fisheries  and  Wildlife.  Following  lunchon  your  own,  there  will 
be  member  discussion  groups  on  “Can  you  be  an  environmentalist  and  work  for  a land-grant  university?  The 
conference  will  adjourn  at  2:30  p.m.,  but  there  will  be  Saturday  evening  group  activities  in  Denver. 

Registration  fee  is  $75  and  the  hotel  room  rate  is  $59  for  either  a single  or  a double. 

Direct  any  questions  to  Dennis  Hinkamp  at  Utah  State  Univ.  (801-750-1392),  or  Jack  Dallas  or  Wendy 
Douglas  at  Colorado  State  Univ.  (303-491-6432). 


FIRST  INTERNAT’L  TELECONFERENCE  ON  NATURAL  RESOURCE  MANAGEMENT  IN  THE  AMERICAS 

Thousands  of  concerned  individuals  throughout  the  Americas  will  link  up  via  satellite  on  September  20,  to 
hear  some  good  news  about  tropical  rain  forests  for  a change. 

In  the  first  International  Teleconference  on  Natural  Resource  Management  in  the  Americas,  participants  will 
have  an  unprecedented  opportunity  to  hear  about  several  on-going  efforts  that  are  intended  to  curtail  the 
devastation  of  tropical  rain  forests  in  Central  and  South  America. 

During  a four-hour  block  between  10  a.m.  and  2 p.m.  Eastern,  the  multinational  audience  will  be  able  to 
interact  directly  with  some  of  the  world’s  foremost  leaders  in  the  fight  against  destruction  of  rain  forests. 

At  least  12  presenters  associated  with  cutting-edge  efforts  in  government,  business,  and  the  private  sector 
will  help  guide  participants  through  the  maze  of  facts, 


3 


showcase  solution-oriented  model  projects,  and  point  out  environmentally-related  involvement  opportunities. 

The  videoconference  was  developed  by  the  California  Polytechnic  State  University  and  the  Sousson  Foun- 
dation, in  association  with  the  Smithsonian  Institute,  U.S.  Agency  for  International  Development,  U.S.  Informa- 
tion Agency,  and  the  World  Wildlife  Fund. 

The  producers  hope  to  create  an  annual  forum  in  which  the  average  consumer  of  media  news,  often  frus- 
trated by  incomplete  or  negative  coverage,  can  interact  with  kindred  minds  for  updating  and  orientation  for 
personal  involvement. 

Problem  solving  strategies  for  the  future  dealing  with  sustainable  development,  biodiversity,  forest  manage- 
ment, and  sustainable  agriculture  will  be  examined  and  explained  during  the  program. 

Questions  from  audience  members,  by  telephone  or  FAX,  will  be  directed  to  presenters. 

For  information  on  how  to  set  up  a local  viewing  site  in  your  area,  call  PBS  Adult  Learning  Satellite 
Service  at  1-800-257-2578. 


GPO  HAS  REPORT  AVAILABLE  ON  ‘USE  OF  ALKALINE  PAPER  IN  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING’ 

As  the  threat  of  self-destruction  of  books  printed  on  acid-based  papers  becomes  more  immediate,  the 
concern  for  extending  the  archival  life  of  publications  with  enduring  value  has  grown. 

As  a result,  at  the  direction  of  the  Committee  on  Appropriations  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  the  U.S. 
Government  Printing  Office  (GPO)  has  developed  a plan  to  facilitate  the  use  of  alkaline  paper  within  the  federal 
government. 

Developed  in  consultation  with  the  Joint  Committee  on  Printing,  the  plan  commits  GPO  to  take  three 
important  steps:  (1)  identify  the  extent,  source,  and  types  of  archival-type  printing  matter  produced  in-house 
and  acquired  commercially  by  GPO  or  other  agencies;  (2)  ensure  that  alkaline  paper  with  improved  longevity  is 
used  in  printing  government  publications  designated  as  having  enduring  value;  and  (3)  provide  for  accurate 
reporting  of  alkaline  paper  usage. 

Approximately  57  percent  of  the  paper  purchased  by  GPO  in  FY  1989  for  in-house  use  and  supplied  to 
federal  agencies  was  produced  by  paper  mills  using  alkaline  production  processes.  This  paper  was  purchased 
at  prices  competitive  with  acid  paper.  It  is  estimated  that  approximately  40  percent  of  the  volume  of  paper  used 
to  produce  contract  printing  for  GPO  is  alkaline. 

The  implementation  of  the  Environmental  Protection  Agency’s  guidelines  on  recycled  paper  in  1989  does 
not  appear  to  have  adversely  affected  the  federal  government’s  ability  to  obtain  adequate  supplies  of  alkaline 
paper. 

Copies  of  the  report,  “Use  of  Alkaline  Paper  in  Government  Printing,”  can  be  obtained  from  GPO’s  Office 
of  Public  Affairs,  202-275-3541 . 


E-MAIL  USE  EXPANDING  RAPIDLY;  EXPLOSIVE  GROWTH  RESULT  OF  MAJOR  BENEFITS 

Growth  in  the  use  of  electronic  mail  in  the  1980s  was  phenomenal,  and  is  expected  to  continue  expanding 
as  government  agencies  and  major  corporations  discover  the  benefits  the  technology  offers. 

Worldwide  spending  for  e-mail  and  related  services  will  experience  about  a 60  percent  compound  annual 
growth  rate  during  the  1990s,  predicts  David  Taylor,  who  tracks  e-mail  applications  for  the  Gartner  Group,  a 
research  and  consulting  firm  based  in  Stamford,  CT. 

The  Electronic  Mail  Association,  an  industry  trade  group  headquartered  in  Arlington,  VA,  estimates  that  the 
number  of  e-mail  users  in  the  United  States  jumped  from  430,000  in  1980  to  8,600,000  in  1989.  Message 
traffic  surged  from  95  million  messages  a year  to  nearly  1.6  billion  during  the  same  period. 

EMA  credits  the  explosive  growth  to  major  benefits  the  technology  offers  user  organizations.  E-mail  cuts 
through  paperwork,  thereby  allowing  people  to  work  more  quickly  and  effectively.  E-mail  is  cited  for  offering 
government  agencies  and  businesses  some  real  productivity  and  cost  advantages. 

E-mail  saves  time  soliciting  input  and  allows  messages  to  be  sent  to  electronic  distribution  lists.  Its  main 
attraction  is  faster  response  time,  particularly  turnaround  time.  With  e-mail,  communication  is  more  frequent, 
and  it  does  not  involve  telephone  tag. 

A check  of  the  distribution  of  a recent  INSIDE  INFORMATION  story  announcing  the  new  USDA  director  of 
public  affairs  showed  9 offices  received  the  article  within  the  first  hour  following  release  through  the  BT  Tymnet 
Dialcom  e-mail  system.  Those  9 included  the  Mississippi  Cooperative  Extension  Service,  Winrock  International 
Agricultural  Research  Center  in  Arkansas,  the  Georgia  and  Washington  Departments  of  Agriculture,  USDA 
Food  and  Nutrition  Service  regional  office  in  New  Jersey,  and  4 USDA  offices  in  Washington,  DC. 


4 


Within  24  hours  after  the  INSIDE  story  was  sent,  over  40  electronic  acknowledgments  had  been 
received— from  local  users  in  Washington,  DC,  to  as  far  away  as  Guam  and  17  states  in  between.  Within  2 
days,  over  half  of  those  on  the  electronic  distribution  list  had  read  the  article. 

In  another  example,  over  half  acknowledged  receipt  of  a message— about  plans  to  extend  USDA’s  contract 
with  BT  Tymnet  for  Dialcom  services— before  the  end  of  the  next  work  day,  according  to  Stan  Prochaska, 
sender  of  the  message.  He  sent  the  message  at  the  end  of  the  day  Friday,  and  acknowledgments  revealed  3 
receivers  on  Friday  (2  from  the  West),  1 on  Saturday  (from  the  USDA  press  secretary’s  office),  2 on  Sunday, 
and  17  on  Monday  (first  one  before  8 a.m.).  Another  10  pulled  the  message  on  Tuesday  (2  before  8 a.m.). 

“There’s  no  way  that  regular  mail— even  USDA’s  interoffice  messenger  mail— could  have  reached  these 
35  offices  this  quickly,”  Prochaska  said.  ‘Plus,  I had  an  electronic  receipt  telling  me  they  had  received  the 
message. 

“Although  faxing  the  message  was  another  option,  I didn’t  have  the  time  to  send  the  message  by  fax  to 
that  many  offices,”  he  added.  He  pointed  out  that  once  he  had  the  message  written  on  his  word  processor,  a 
few  key  strokes  later  the  message  was  in  the  intended  recipients  electronic  mailboxes. 

E-mail  users  are  able  to  eliminate  meetings  and  can  resolve  problems  via  electronic  mail.  Judy  Galgano, 
with  the  Grumman  Corporation,  was  quoted  in  a recent  magazine  article  that  “it  is  not  unusual  for  us  to  have 
messages  that  are  answered,  added  to,  and  forwarded  to  additional  people  for  weeks  at  a time  until  a problem 
is  resolved.” 

E-mail  also  benefits  those  who  travel.  Doug  Brackbill,  director  of  advanced  products  marketing  for  MCI, 
says  the  “portable  office”  phenomenon  is  really  based  on  electronic  mail. 

“Traveling  employees  can  use  laptop  computers  to  send  and  receive  messages  while  away  from  the 
office,”  he  said.  In  this  sense,  e-mail  is  completing  the  communications  revolution  that  the  telephone  started. 


OHIO  STATE  UNIVERSITY  INFORMATION  AND  APPLIED  COMMUNICATIONS  SEEKS  EDITOR 

The  Ohio  State  University  (OSU)  has  an  opening  for  an  editor  in  the  Section  of  Information  and  Applied 
Communication. 

Qualifications  include  a B.S.  or  B.A.  in  journalism,  English,  or  communications,  with  M.S.  or  M.A. 
preferred;  experience  in  publications  editing  and  production;  and  experience  with  computerized  text  editing.  A 
background  in  agriculture,  natural  resources,  or  home  economics  will  be  helpful. 

The  editor  will  supervise  and  coordinate  all  manuscript  planning  and  overall  scheduling  of  the  production 
of  publication  materials,  such  as  bulletins,  fact  sheets,  brochures,  leaflets  and  other  printed  materials;  assign 
publications  editing  jobs  to  other  staff;  work  cooperatively  with  the  graphic  arts  coordinator  too  assure  efficient 
production  or  printed  materials;  and  establish  and  maintain  a procedure  for  production  scheduling. 

Other  duties  are  to  advise  and  assist  with  policy  recommendations  regarding  publication  sales  and  distribu- 
tion, and  serve  as  OSU’s  representative  with  the  North  Central  Regional  Educational  Materials  Project;  provide 
departmental  leadership  in  marketing/promoting  publication  sales  and  general  use;  provide  leadership 
regarding  new  communications  technology  (such  as  desktop  publishing)  in  print  media;  and  edit  and  produce  a 
proportionate  number  of  publications. 

Additional  duties  are  to  arrange  and  coordinate  printing  with  university  printing  facility  and  non-university 
printers,  and  work  closely  with  university  purchasing  to  secure  printing  bids;  maintain  accurate  records  of  print 
material  production;  and  work  with  other  state  agencies  which  have  publication  arrangements  with  OSU. 

Further  duties  are  to  assist  with  in-service  communications  training  for  faculty  and  staff;  and  advocate  and 
monitor  all  print  materials  to  avoid  discrimination  via  text,  graphics,  photography,  or  in  the  manner  in  which 
printed  materials  are  distributed. 

Salary  is  commensurate  with  experience. 

Send  applications  by  September  21,  to:  Dr.  Larry  R.  Whiting,  Head,  Information  and  Applied  Communica- 
tions, 216  Kottman  Hall,  2021  Coffey  Road,  Columbus,  OH  43210. 


ACE  PRESENTS  ITS  MOST  PRESTIGIOUS  AWARDS  FOR  1990  AT  INTERNATIONAL  CONFERENCE 

The  Agricultural  Communicators  in  Education  (ACE),  the  oldest  and  largest  organization  in  the  United 
States  for  agricultural  communicators,  presented  its  prestigious  Reuben  Brigham  Award  on  July  17  to  Dewey 
A.  Rand,  Jr.  of  Salem,  Oregon.  Named  for  a former  ACE  president,  it  is  the  highest  award  ACE  gives  a non- 
member and  has  been  awarded  yearly  since  1947. 


5 


Rand,  president  of  Press  Publishing  Company,  also  owns  and  is  chief  editorial  writer  and  publisher  for  the 
CAPITAL  PRESS,  a weekly  newspaper  devoted  to  agriculture,  forestry  and  fishing. 

ACE  presented  a number  of  awards  during  this  year’s  international  conference  held  in  St.  Paul,  Minnesota, 
July  14-17  at  the  Radisson  Hotel. 

The  ACE  Professional  Award  was  presented  to  Theodore  Hutchcroft,  program  officer/communication, 
Winrock  International. 

ACE  Pioneer  Awards,  honoring  outstanding  communicators  under  age  36  who  demonstrate  exceptional 
leadership  and  technical  skills  and  make  significant  contributions  to  ACE,  were  presented  to  Mary  E.  Frank, 
extension  broadcast  specialist,  Virginia  Tech  and  Emery  T.  Tschetter,  acting  head  of  the  South  Dakota  State 
University  Department  of  Agricultural  Communications. 

ACE  Special  Interest  Group  (SIG)  Awards  of  Excellence  were  presented  to:  Larry  Tennyson,  communica- 
tions specialist  at  South  Dakota  State  University  (Teacher/Training); 

Daniel  H.  Lutz,  Extension  communications  specialist,  University  of  Nebraska  (Media  Relations); 

J.  Cordell  Hatch,  information  transfer  advisor,  USAID/Pennsylvania  State  UniversityAA/inrock  International 
(International  Affairs); 

David  G.  Rice,  head  of  Extension  Computer  Services  at  North  Dakota  State  University  (Computers); 

Donald  L.  Breneman,  communications  specialist,  University  of  Minnesota  (Visuals); 

D.  Jeanne  Gleason,  associate  agricultural  editor,  New  Mexico  State  University  (Interactive  Technologies); 

Terry  Meisenbach,  publications  editor/visuals,  University  of  Nebraska  (Publications); 

Gary  Dagnan,  assistant  professor,  University  of  Tennessee  (Graphic  Design); 

Thomas  B.  Bare,  Dakota  text  coordinator,  South  Dakota  State  University  (Electronic  Media); 

Bud  Gavitt,  agricultural  editor,  University  of  Connecticut  (Writing); 

William  Murphy,  Extension  satellite  program  manager,  Virginia  Tech  (Teleconferencing);  and 

Clifford  Scherer,  communications  associate  professor,  Cornell  University  (Research). 


6 


CALENDAR  OF  UPCOMING  COMMUNICATION  EVENTS  AND  TRAINING  OPPORTUNITIES 
September  5: 

FOSE  MICROCOMPUTER  CONFERENCE/EXPOSITION  FOR  THE  FEDERAL  GOVT. 

Washington  Convention  Center,  Washington,  D.C. 

Contact:  703-683-8500  or  800-638-8510 

September  6: 

NATIONAL  ASSOCIATION  OF  GOVERNMENT  COMMUNICATORS  REGIONAL  WORKSHOP 
Quality  Inn  on  the  River,  Covington,  Kentucky 
Contact:  502-564-2000 

September  27: 

AGRICULTURAL  COMMUNICATORS  IN  EDUCATION  NORTHEAST  REGIONAL  MEETING 
Holiday  Inn,  Baltimore,  Maryland 
Contact:  Bruce  Johnson,  Univ.  of  Maryland,  301-454-3623 

October  4: 

AGRICULTURAL  COMMUNICATORS  IN  EDUCATION  WESTERN  REGIONAL  MEETING 
Airport  Sheraton,  Denver  Colorado 
Contact:  Dennis  Hinkamp,  Utah  State  Univ.,  303-491-6432 

October  19: 

NATIONAL  ASSOCIATION  OF  GOVERNMENT  COMMUNICATORS  REGIONAL  WORKSHOP 
Emily  Morgan  Hotel,  San  Antonio,  Texas 
Contact:  NAGC,  703-823-4821 

December  5: 

NATIONAL  ASSOCIATION  OF  GOVERNMENT  COMMUNICATORS  ANNUAL  CONFERENCE 
Rosslyn  Westpark  Hotel,  Arlington,  Virginia 
Contact:  NAGC,  703-823-4821 


7 


