Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


C a~ 


United  States 
Department  of 
Agriculture 

Forest  Service 

Alaska  Region 
R10-MB-108 


pQltCST  SERv^j 


Kelp  Bay  Project 


INFORMATION  BULLETIN  NO.  2 

CHATHAM  AREA  - TONGASS  NATIONAL  FOREST 


United  States  Forest  Region  10 

Department  of  Service  Tongass  National  Forest 

Agriculture 


Chatham  Area 
204  Siginaka  Way 
Sitka,  Alaska  99835 
(907)  747-6671 


Reply  To:  1950 


Date:  June  26,  1990 


Dear  Participant: 

Thank  you  for  your  continued  interest  in  project  planning  on  the  Chatham  Area 
of  the  Tongass  National  Forest.  The  Forest  Service  has  completed  Scoping,  the 
initial  phase  of  the  Kelp  Bay  timber  sale  project. 

During  this  phase,  the  public  requested  approximately  550  copies  of  the  Kelp 
Bay  scoping  information  bulletin.  Through  the  end  of  the  scoping  period,  we 
had  received  comments  from  52  individuals,  groups,  or  agencies.  Some  responses 
were  from  private  citizens  concerned  about  management  of  natural  resources  on 
the  Forest.  Some  were  people  who  depend  on  the  Tongass  National  Forest  natural 
resources  for  their  livelihood,  such  as  outfitters  and  guides,  fishermen,  and 
people  in  the  timber  harvest  industry.  We  also  heard  from  local,  state,  and 
federal  agencies  with  concerns  about  the  resources  we  cooperatively  manage, 
either  within  the  project  boundary  or  adjoining  the  project  area.  Examples  are 
Alaska  Department  of  Fish  and  Game,  US  Fish  and  Wildlife  Service,  and  Sitka 
State  Parks  Citizens  Advisory  Board.  Our  thanks  to  those  who  responded.  Your 
comments  have  helped  us  focus  attention  on  what  data  to  collect,  select  the 
types  of  analysis  to  be  done,  and  identify  how  we  will  respond  to  the  issues. 

In  an  effort  to  keep  you  in  touch  with  our  process,  enclosed  with  this  letter 
is  a second  informational  bulletin  about  the  Kelp  Bay  project.  Some  of  the 
topics  discussed  are:  the  results  from  public  scoping  and  the  final  issues; 

the  members  of  the  interdisciplinary  planning  team;  how  this  project  relates  to 
the  Tongass  Land  Management  Plan;  and  a summary  of  how  the  planning  process 
works. 

I encourage  you  to  spend  a few  minutes  reviewing  the  enclosed  bulletin,  and  if 
you  have  questions  or  wish  to  become  more  familiar  with  certain  aspects  of  the 
project,  feel  free  to  contact  the  Kelp  Bay  planning  team  leader,  Janis  Burns 
Buyarski  at  (907)  747-6671,  or  drop  by  and  visit  our  office.  We  look  forward 
to  having  you  as  associates  in  the  planning  process. 


Sincerely, 


RONALD  B.  SKILLINGS 
Acting  Forest  Supervisor 


Enclosure 


900605  926  RED  1950  JBB 


FS-8200-28(7-82) 


KELP  BAY  PROJECT 
BULLETIN  NO.  2 


The  intent  of  this  second  bulletin  is  to  share  with  you  what  we  heard 
during  our  scoping  efforts.  We  will  also  present  some  information  on 
how  the  Forest  Service  planning  process  works,  and  how  you  can  stay 
involved  with  planning  for  the  Kelp  Bay  project.  We  invite  you  to  spend 
a few  minutes  reading  this  information. 


What  were  the  scoping  efforts? 

The  first  scoping  letter  and  information 
bulletin  was  mailed  to  the  public  the  end 
of  February.  Roughly  450  copies  were 
distributed  to  interested  parties.  Addi- 
tional information  about  the  Kelp  Bay 
project  was  provided  through  news  re- 
leases to  local  media,  a radio  interview 
with  Raven  Radio  (KCAW)  in  Sitka,  and 
an  interview  with  the  Sitka  News  Bureau. 
This  additional  exposure  resulted  in  ap- 
proximately 100  more  copies  of  the 
scoping  bulletin  being  requested  by  the 
interested  public.  Following  the  close  of 
the  scoping  period  on  April  16th,  the 
Kelp  Bay  planning  team  had  heard  from 
52  individuals,  public  interest  groups,  or 
public  agencies  from  Alaska,  and 
throughout  the  United  States. 

Your  comments  have  helped  the  plan- 
ning team  identify  the  necessary  infor- 
mation to  collect,  the  analysis  needed 
and  the  framework  within  which  the 
management  alternatives  will  be  devel- 
oped. This  will  enable  us  to  respond 
more  effectively  to  public  concerns. 


Who  is  on  the  planning  team? 
What  are  their  roles?  What  is 
their  experience? 

The  Kelp  Bay  planning  team  is  divided 
into  two  groups  with  different  roles.  Both 
groups  work  together,  and  are  com- 
prised of  natural  resource  professionals. 
The  first  group  is  the  Core  Team.  This 
group  of  6 people  have  full  time  respon- 
sibility for  the  collection  of  data,  analysis 
and  preparation  of  the  Draft  and  Final 
Environmental  Impact  Statements.  The 
second  group  is  the  Extended  Team, 
who  work  interactively  with  the  core 
team.  For  the  second  group,  Kelp  Bay  is 
just  one  of  many  projects  on  which  they 
work.  See  table  on  next  page  for  the  list 
of  team  members. 

Each  ID  team  member  is  expected  to 
prepare  two  separate  resource  reports. 
The  first  will  deal  with  the  existing  envi- 
ronmental condition  and  the  second  will 
deal  with  the  effects  of  each  alternative 
for  the  project.  Each  of  these  reports  will 
become  part  of  the  planning  record, 
which  supports  conclusions  displayed 
in  the  Draft  and  Final  EISs. 


1 


Employee 

Role 

Forest  Service 
Experience 

Core  Team 

Janis  Burns 

Team  Leader,  Timber  Planner 

12  years 

Joe  Costa 

Transportation  Planner 

21  years 

Cliff  Edenshaw 

Subsistence  Specialist 

4 years 

Jim  Thomas 

Data  Analyst/Economist 

1 2 years 

Mike  Weber 

Wildlife  Biologist 

1 2 years 

Dick  Zaborske 

Silviculturist/Logging  Systems 

11  years 

Extended  Team 

Karen  Swanson- 
Iwamoto 

Cultural  Resource  Planner 

7 years 

Ted  Falkner 

Geographic  Information  Specialist 

33  years 

Dom  Monaco 

Visual  Resource  Planner 

12  years 

Mary  Muller 

Land/Minerals  Specialist 

12  years 

Mary  Beth  Nelson 

Recreation  Planner 

8 years 

Steve  Paustian 

Hydrologist 

1 4 years 

Vic  Starostka 

Fish  Biologist 

1 3 years 

Randy  West 

Soil  Scientist 

1 0 years 

Fred  Glenn 

Field  Crew  Supervisor 

1 5 years 

How  does  the  Kelp  Bay  project 
relate  to  the  Tongass  Land  Man- 
agement Plan?  How  does 
project  planning  work? 

Forest  Service  land  management  plan- 
ning is  governed  by  many  laws  and  their 
accompanying  regulations.  These  laws 
include  the  National  Environmental  Pol- 
icy Act  of  1969  (NEPA),  the  Forest  and 
Rangeland  Renewable  Resources  Plan- 
ning Act  of  1 974  (RPA),  and  the  National 
Forest  Management  Act  of  1 976  (NFMA) 
which  amended  RPA.  Other  laws  signifi- 
cant to  management  of  the  Tongass  Na- 
tional Forest  are  the  Alaska  Statehood 
Act  of  1959,  the  Alaska  Native  Claims 
Settlement  Act  of  1 971  (ANCSA)  and  the 


Alaska  National  Interest  and  Lands  Con- 
servation Act  of  1980  (ANILCA). 

Project  planning,  including  Kelp  Bay 
project,  occurs  within  the  overall  frame- 
work of  Forest  level  plans.  As  required 
by  the  laws  cited  above  and  related 
planning  regulations,  the  Forest  Service 
has  two  levels  of  planning.  The  first  level 
of  planning  was  the  Tongass  Land  Man- 
agement Plan  of  1979  and  the  Amend- 
ment to  the  Forest  Plan  in  the  Winter 
1 985-86.  These  two  documents  provide 
specific  management  direction  and 
scheduling  for  the  Tongass  National 
Forest  and  provide  the  foundation  for 
the  Kelp  Bay  project. 


2 


The  second  level  in  planning  is  the  eval- 
uation of  individual  projects.  The  Kelp 
Bay  timber  sale  project  is  one  of  many 
projects  under  consideration  by  the 
Chatham  Area.  The  purpose  of  an  Envi- 
ronmental Impact  Statement  (EIS)  for 
this  project  is  to  consider  and  inform  the 
public  of  potentially  significant  effects  of 
timber  harvest  and  related  activities  in 
the  project  area.  There  are  several  phas- 
es during  the  preparation  of  an  EIS.  The- 
se phases  are  briefly  described  below. 

Phase  1:  Project  Initiation  - This  phase 
includes  appointing  an  interdisciplinary 
team,  researching  data  and  public 
scoping.  Following  scoping,  the  issues 
are  finalized  and  a determination  on  how 
to  best  address  the  issues  is  defined. 
This  phase  was  completed  May  1,  for 
the  Kelp  Bay  Project. 

Phase  2:  Data  Inventory  - Office 
records  are  researched  and  field  data 
collection  occurs.  A Forest  Service  crew 
is  currently  in  the  process  of  collecting 
field  data  specific  to  potential  units  and 
road  locations.  Reports  describing  the 
existing  environment  are  prepared.  This 
phase  is  currently  in  progress  and  is  ex- 
pected to  be  substantially  completed  by 
September  1990. 

Phase  3:  Development  of  Alternatives 

- A wide  range  of  alternatives  to  address 
the  issues  and  current  management  di- 
rection will  be  developed  for  considera- 
tion. Alternatives  are  developed  by  mix- 
ing and  matching  timber  harvest  units, 


roads  and  log  transfer  facilities  to  make 
volume  available  while  emphasizing  a 
variety  of  management  strategies.  For 
example  alternatives  might  include  a No 
Harvest  alternative,  a recreation  empha- 
sis alternative,  and  a wildlife  emphasis 
alternative.  Alternative  development  is 
scheduled  to  occur  in  mid  to  late 
September. 

Phase  4:  Alternative  Evaluation  - The 

effects  and  outputs  (biological,  physical, 
economic  and  social)  are  estimated  for 
each  alternative  considered,  if  imple- 
mentation were  to  occur.  The  alterna- 
tives are  then  evaluated  in  terms  of  how 
they  meet  management  direction  and 
satisfy  the  issues.  This  phase  is  expect- 
ed to  be  complete  by  Christmas  time 
1990. 


3 


Phase  5:  Publication  of  the  Draft  EIS  - 

The  analysis  and  findings  of  the  interdis- 
ciplinary team  are  compiled  into  a single 
document  and  made  available  to  the  in- 
terested public  for  review.  This  review 
allows  the  public  to  respond  to  Forest 
Service  alternatives  and  findings.  During 
the  review  period  of  the  draft,  open 
houses  to  display  and  answer  questions 
about  the  alternatives,  and  subsistence 
hearings  will  likely  occur  in  Southeast 
Alaskan  communities  affected  by  the 
project  proposal.  The  Draft  EIS  should 
be  available  in  March  1 991 . 

Phase  6:  Publication  of  the  Final  EIS  - 

Public  comments  on  the  draft  EIS  and 
testimony  from  subsistence  hearings 
will  be  analyzed  and  incorporated  into 
the  Final  EIS.  With  the  Final  EIS  will  be 
the  Record  of  Decision  outlining  the  de- 
cisions of  the  Regional  Forester  regard- 
ing the  Kelp  Bay  project.  At  this  time  the 
Final  EIS  is  expected  by  August  1991. 

What  is  the  final  set  of  issues? 

Listed  below  are  the  final  set  of  issues 
the  planning  team  will  address  while 
preparing  the  Draft  Environmental  Im- 
pact Statement  (DEIS).  Included  with 
each  issue  is  a brief  summary  of  public 
comments  and  how  the  Forest  Service 
will  respond  to  those  comments  as  we 
continue  with  the  planning  process. 

ISSUE  1:  SOCIAL  AND  ECONOMIC 
EFFECTS  OF  TIMBER  HARVEST  AC- 
TIVITIES 

This  issue  reflects  concern  about  ef- 
fects on  community  employment  and 


population,  on  business,  on  quality  of 
life  and  lifestyles. 

Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Outfitter  guides  are  concerned  with 
being  squeezed  into  smaller  and  smaller 
areas  not  impacted  by  logging,  from 
which  to  operate  their  services  to  clients. 

• Desires  the  analysis  to  proceed  and 
conclude  with  a viable  timber  sale,  by 
re-entering  areas  already  logged. 

• Commercial  fisherman  would  wel- 
come having  camp  facilities  like  welding 
and  hydraulic  parts  on  the  east  side  of 
Baranof  Is. 

• Concerns  for  commercial  tour  opera- 
tors who  use  the  area,  losing  business. 

How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 

• Currently  information  specific  to  com- 
mercial use  of  the  project  area  does  not 
exist.  Much  of  this  information  can  be 
extrapolated  from  Regional,  Area,  and 
District  use  information.  The  team  in- 
tends to  address  this  issue  in  narrative 
form,  as  hard  figures,  and  economic 
computer  models  are  not  currently  avail- 
able. 


4 


ISSUE  2:  WATER  QUALITY  AND  FISH 
HABITAT 

This  issue  addresses  public  concern 
for  protecting  water  quality  in  streams 
which  provide  habitat  to  anadromous 
fish  and  resident  trout. 

Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Concerns  with  buffer  strip  width. 

• Concerns  with  sediment  production 
into  Peril  Strait  and  Chatham  Strait. 

• Concerns  with  mapping  and  manag- 
ing "wetlands  and  floodplains". 

• Concerns  with  checkerboard  affect  of 
units  within  a watershed. 

• Concerns  with  re-entering  areas  heav- 
ily harvested  in  1 960’s  and  1 970’s. 

• Concerns  with  salmon  production  in 
Clear  Creek,  Ralph’s  creek,  Lake  Eva 
stream  system,  Saook  stream  and  Ap- 
pleton Cove  stream  systems. 

• Concerns  with  shoreline  feeding  habi- 
tat for  "outmigrating"  salmon. 

• Concerns  with  dungeness  crab  in  Ap- 
pleton Cove,  Hanus  Bay,  Portage  Arm,' 
South  Arm  Kelp  Bay,  and  Cosmos 
Cove. 


King  (Chinook)  Salmon 


How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 


• Riparian  zone  management  will  be  ad- 
dressed in  terms  of  average  width  of 
buffer  zones.  Current  plans  are  use  the 
Aquatic  Habitat  Management  Hand- 
book for  guidance.  We  will  also  to  leave 
a minimum  buffer  width  of  1 00  feet  on  all 
streams  which  provide  anadromous  fish 
habitat  (class  1).  Should  pending  legis- 
lation provide  specific  direction,  that  di- 
rection would  be  implemented  upon 
passage  by  Congress.  Timber  harvest 
activity  would  be  restricted  within  Aquat- 
ic management  zones,  and  road  con- 
struction would  only  occur  to  facilitate 
stream  crossings. 

• Watershed  impacts  and  sedimenta- 
tion, will  be  addressed  in  narrative  form 
in  terms  of  a sensitivity  index  jointly  de- 
veloped by  hydrologists  in  the  region. 

• Impacts  to  anadromous  commercial 
fish  (pinks  and  coho)  and  to  resident 
fish  (Dolly  Varden)  will  be  addressed  in 
narrative  form.  The  TLMP  revision  team 
has  developed  models  which  will  be 
used  to  help  predict  habitat  capability. 

• Watershed  and  fisheries  enhance- 
ment opportunities  will  be  identified. 

ISSUE  3:  SUBSISTENCE 
This  issue  reflects  public  concern  for 
the  taking  of  wildlife,  marine  life  and 
plants  for  the  "customary  and  tradi- 
tional" use  by  "rural  Alaskan"  resi- 
dents. Specifically,  the  Alaska  Native 
Interest  Lands  Claim  Act  (ANILCA)  re- 
quires the  Forest  Service  to  deter- 
mine if  proposed  activities  "may"  limit 
use. 


5 


Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Concern  that  Angoon  has  a high  un- 
employment rate  (80-85%  unemploy- 
ment) and  subsistence  is  critical  to  sur- 
vival of  many  families. 

• Concern  that  putting  logging  camps 
in  Kelp  Bay  would  provide  easy  access 
to  areas  traditionally  used  by  natives  for 
subsistence.  Additional  competition 
could  adversely  affect  the  people  who 
depend  on  subsistence. 

• Subsistence  resources  taken  from 
Kelp  Bay,  as  well  as  South  Peril  Strait 
and  the  eastern  shore  of  Baranof  Island 
are:  Brown  bear,  Deer,  seal  and  sea  li- 
ons, halibut,  all  kinds  of  salmon,  herring, 
land  otter,  mink,  ermine,  shellfish  such 
as  crab,  clams,  mussels,  etc.,  berry 
picking  and  crab  apples. 

• The  residents  of  Angoon  feel  the  pres- 
sure and  competition  for  subsistence  re- 
sources from  in  Sitka,  Hoonah,  Tena- 
kee,  Kake,  Petersburg,  and  other 
Southeast  communities.  This  results  in 
fewer  resources  for  more  subsistence 
users. 

How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 

• Changes  in  availability  of  habitat  to 
support  fish,  wildlife  and  vegetation 
commonly  used  for  subsistence  will  be 
discussed  in  terms  of  acres  of  changes 
in  habitat,  and  habitat  suitability  index 
from  wildlife  analysis. 

• Changes  in  accessibility  to  subsis- 
tence resources  will  be  discussed  in 
terms  of  miles  of  shoreline  not  impacted 
by  activities,  number  of  log  transfer  facil- 


ities, number  of  logging  camps  and  du- 


This  issue  includes  concern  over  sev- 
eral wildlife  species  and  the  habitats 
critical  to  maintenance  of  wildlife  pop- 
ulations. 

Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Concern  with  biological  diversity  and 
wildlife  habitat  fragmentation. 

• Concerns  for  habitat  in  Cosmos  Cove 
and  Portage  Arm  - Hanus  Bay. 

• Concerns  with  habitat  for  "old  growth" 
dependent  species:  Brown  bear,  Sitka 
black-tailed  deer,  mountain  goat,  mar- 
bled murrelet,  boreal  owl,  bald  eagle 
and  cavity  nesting  birds. 

• Concerns  with  deer  winter  range  man- 
agement. 

• Concerns  with  migratory  water  fowl 
habitat,  especially  Vancouver  Canada 
goose. 

• Concerns  for  estuary  habitat  depend- 
ent species:  Crabs,  river  otter,  mink, 
pine  marten  and  brown  bears. 

• Concerns  that  "retention  areas"  be 
mapped,  inventoried  and  maintained  for 
duration  of  planning  cycle. 


6 


How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 

• Similar  to  what  was  done  in  the  sup- 
plemental EIS  to  1981-86  and  1986-90 
EIS’s,  changes  in  habitat  for  Manage- 
ment Indicator  Species  will  be  displayed 
in  acres  available  prior  to  1 954,  present- 
ly available,  and  available  at  the  end  of 
the  planning  period.  This  analysis  will  be 
supported  by  narrative  comparison. 

• Identify  and  map  high  value  wildlife 
areas,  with  input  from  ADF&G. 


ISSUE  5:  SCENIC  QUALITY 
This  issue  addresses  concerns  with 
areas  viewed  from  popular  recreation 
use  areas  and  marine  travel  routes. 
The  Kelp  Bay  project  area  includes 
many  recreation  use  areas  and  ad- 
joins both  the  Alaska  Marine  Highway 
and  small  boat  travelways. 

Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Concerns  with  use  of  anchorages  in 
Kelp  Bay  and  Hanus  Bay. 

• Logging  is  ugly  & uninviting,  and  de- 
tracts from  enjoyment  of  the  natural  set- 
ting. 

• Concerns  with  visual  impacts  from 
boat  routes. 

How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 


• Inventory  Visual  Quality  Objectives  will 
be  mapped.  Changes  in  VQO’s  will  be 
discussed  in  narrative  form  and  related 
to  management  criteria  for  each  Visual 
Management  Class. 

ISSUE  6:  RECREATION 
Remoteness  and  solitude  found  in 
most  of  southeast  Alaska  are  some  of 
the  characteristics  which  make  the 
Kelp  Bay  project  area  attractive  to  vis- 
itors. in  addition,  Lake  Eva  is  a LUD  II 
designation.  This  issue  addresses 
concerns  that  increased  development 
would  change  the  primitive  character 
of  these  areas. 

Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Recreational  use  areas  mentioned  in 
public  letters  were:  Lake  Eva,  Catherine 
Island,  Hanus  Bay  and  North  Portage 
Arm,  estuary  in  South  Arm,  Saook  Bay, 
Kelp  Bay  and  Pond  Island,  Cosmos 
Cove,  and  Clear  River. 

• Concern  that  Lake  Eva  be  Maintained 
as  a LUD  II. 

• Concern  for  the  Wild  and  Scenic  river 
potentiaPfor  streams  within  the  VCU’s, 
especially  Glacial  River. 

• Concerned  for  continued  use  of  boat 
anchorages  in  Appleton  Cove,  Hanus 
Bay,  Cosmos  Cove  and  Kelp  Bay. 

• Harvest  should  only  cause  a "tempo- 
rary" interruption  to  recreational  activi- 
ties by  other  users. 

• Lake  Eva  is  the  only  major  recreation 
cabin  which  is  accessible  to  the  handi- 
cap. This  use  should  be  maintained. 

• Concern  that  logging  and  road  build- 
ing be  limited  within  1 mile  either  side  of 
VCU  295,  along  Peril  Strait. 


7 


How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 

• Recreation  use  will  be  addressed  in 
narrative  form  based  on  changes  in  the 
Recreation  Opportunity  Spectrum  in- 
ventory. Impacts  will  address  changes 
to  Recreation  places  and  recreation 
sites. 

• Narrative  description  of  each  major 
recreation  drainage  will  be  provided,  de- 
scribing the  ’wild,  scenic,  and/or  recre- 
ation’ characteristics  of  rivers  such  as 
Glacial  river. 

• Recreation  enhancement  opportuni- 
ties will  be  identified. 


ISSUE  7:  MARINE  ENVIRONMENT 
This  issue  addresses  concern  for  the 
intertidal  area  between  upland  timber 
harvest  activities  and  the  associated 
affects  on  the  marine  environment. 

Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Concerns  with  ’footprint’  of  the  Log 
Transfer  Facility  (LTF). 

• Concerns  with  impacts  to  water  qual- 
ity and  marine  resources. 


• Concerns  with  haulouts  for  sea  lions 
and  seals,  and  other  marine  mammal 
habitats  like  the  humpback  whale. 

• Concerns  with  non-point  surface  dis- 
charge of  bark  leachates,  sediments, 
and  petroleum  spills  in  the  immediate 
vicinity  of  the  log  transfer  facility  and  log- 
ging camp  operation  areas. 

• Preference  is  for  the  Forest  Service 
operators  to  re-use  previous  LTF  sites, 
rather  than  open  new  ones. 

• Concern  noted  for  LTF  locations  in 
South  Arm  of  Kelp  Bay,  Saook  Bay  and 
Upper  Middle  Arm  of  Kelp  Bay. 

How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 

• Forest  Service  will  work  closely  with 
National  Marine  Fisheries  Service  and 
the  US  Fish  and  Wildlife  service  in  deter- 
mining the  feasibility  of  potential  LTF 
sites,  and  doing  the  needed  habitat 
evaluation.  This  area  of  expertise  is  out- 
side of  the  types  of  upland  management 
The  Forest  Service  normally  does.  Im- 
pacts will  be  addressed  in  narrative 
form. 

ISSUE  8:  TIMBER 

This  issue  addresses  public  concern 
for  the  amount  of  timber  proposed  for 
harvest,  as  well  as  concerns  for  the 
condition  of  previously  harvested  ar- 
eas. Also  included  with  this  issue  is 
the  concern  for  economical  entry  into 
new  stands.  (This  issue  was  not  one  of 
the  original  ones  sent  to  the  public  in  the 
scoping  document,  but  is  one  surfaced 
due  to  comments  from  the  public). 


8 


Summary  of  Public  Responses: 

• Concerns  that  although  the  planning 
area  has  many  acres,  it  does  not  have 
great  timber  resources. 

• Concerns  with  the  extent  and  nature 
of  conifer  regeneration  in  the  past  har- 
vest areas. 

• Concerns  for  the  benefits/costs  of  re- 
entering an  area  already  harvested. 


How  the  Forest  Service  plans  to  re- 
spond to  these  concerns: 

• Timber  conditions  will  be  addressed  in 
narrative  form  based  on  stand  condi- 
tions and  structure,  volume  class,  avail- 
able volume  in  relationship  to  standing 
volume  and  forest  types. 

• Economic  entry  will  be  tested  using  a 
road  system/logging  system  network 
analysis  package  for  a personal  com- 
puter. 

• Silvicultural  prescriptions,  which  in- 
clude considerations  for  resources  oth- 
er than  timber,  will  be  identified  for  each 
harvest  unit  selected  in  the  Record  of 
Decision. 


• Timber  stand  improvement  opportu- 
nites  will  be  identified. 

What  issues  raised  by  the  pub- 
lic, are  not  being  addressed  by 
the  planning  team,  and  why? 

1.  How  would  proposed  legislation  af- 
fect the  current  plans  for  Kelp  Bay? 
FS  response:  Controversy  over  man- 
agement of  the  Tongass  National  Forest 
continues.  This  has  been  a Regional 
and  National  issue  for  the  past  few 
years.  The  U.S.  Congress  currently  has 
a combination  of  House  Rules  and  Sen- 
ate Bills  under  consideration.  These  are 
loosely  referred  to  as  the  "Tongass  Tim- 
ber Reform  Act".  Since  Kelp  Bay  is  not 
one  of  23  areas  being  considered  to  be 
set  aside  for  special  designation  it  is  less 
likely  to  be  affected  by  Congressional 
action.  Specific  provisions  of  such  a bill 
which  could  deal  with  buffer  zone  width 
and  inter-connecting  road  systems  etc., 
will  be  evaluated  at  the  time  of  passage 
by  Congress.  Congressional  action  is 
outside  the  scope  of  the  Kelp  Bay 
project  analysis. 

2.  Concern  that  the  USFS  mission 
statement  implies  we  must  make  tim- 
ber available  to  the  Orient. 

FS  Response:  Mission  statement:  'The 
Forest  Service  has  the  Federal  respon- 
sibility for  national  leadership  in  forestry. 
Its  mission  is  to  provide  a continuing 
flow  of  natural  resource  goods  and  serv- 
ices to  help  meet  the  needs  of  the  Na- 
tion and  to  contribute  to  the  needs  of  the 
international  community.  To  accomplish 
this,  it  has  adopted  the  following  objec- 
tives: 


9 


2.  Concern  that  the  USFS  mission 
statement  implies  we  must  make  tim- 
ber available  to  the  Orient. 

FS  Response:  Mission  statement:  'The 
Forest  Service  has  the  Federal  respon- 
sibility for  national  leadership  in  forestry. 
Its  mission  is  to  provide  a continuing 
flow  of  natural  resource  goods  and  serv- 
ices to  help  meet  the  needs  of  the  Na- 
tion and  to  contribute  to  the  needs  of  the 
international  community.  To  accomplish 
this,  it  has  adopted  the  following  objec- 
tives: 

• provide  a sustained  flow  of  renewable 
resources  - outdoor  recreation,  forage, 
wood,  water,  wilderness,  wildlife,  and 
fish  --  in  a combination  that  best  meets 
the  needs  of  society  now  and  in  the  fu- 
ture; 

• administer  the  nonrenewable  re- 
sources of  the  National  Forest  System 
to  help  meet  the  Nation’s  needs  for  en- 
ergy and  mineral  resources; 

• promote  a healthy  and  productive  en- 
vironment for  the  Nation’s  forests  and 
rangelands; 

• develop  and  make  available  scientific 
and  technological  capabilities  to  ad- 
vance renewable  natural  resource  man- 
agement, use  and  protection;  and 

• further  natural  resource  conservation 
through  cooperation  with  other  Federal 
agencies  and  State  and  local  govern- 
ment." 

The  US  Forest  Service  Mission  state- 
ment applies  to  our  entire  agency,  and  is 
not  specific  to  the  Alaska  Region.  It  is 
not  a direct  mandate  to  ’make  wood 
available  to  the  Orient’  from  the  Alaska 
Pulp  corporation  contract.  On  the 
whole,  the  Forest  Service  participates  in 
many  international  issues  including 


things  like  fisheries  management,  global 
warming,  and  tropical  forestry.  The  For- 
est Service  mission  statement  is  outside 
the  scope  of  the  Kelp  Bay  project  plan. 


3.  Why  are  we  cutting  timber  in  Kelp 
Bay  and  not  someplace  else?  Kelp 
Bay  should  not  be  considered  for  log- 
ging until  all  other  areas  and  options 
are  analyzed. 

FS  Response:  The  Tongass  Land  Man- 
agement Plan  (1979)  is  the  place  where 
trade  offs  between  areas  are  analyzed 
and  discussed.  The  Tongass  Land  Man- 
agement Plan,  amended  in  the  Winter  of 
1 985-86,  clearly  states  the  Kelp  Bay  area 
was  scheduled  for  harvest  under  terms 
of  the  APC  contract.  The  Forest  Service 
has  two  levels  in  the  planning  process. 
The  first  level  being  the  Forest  Plan,  and 
the  second  level  being  the  project  plan. 
Trade  offs  between  one  project  and  an- 
other project  are  outside  the  scope  of 
individual  project  plans. 

Other  considerations  used  in  selecting 
the  Kelp  Bay  area,  over  other  areas  with- 
in the  Alaska  Pulp  Corporation  contract 
boundary  included  several  factors.  Pro- 
posed legislation  did  not  include  this 
area  for  consideration  as  a potential 
wilderness  or  "moratorium"  area,  mak- 
ing it  one  of  the  least  likely  to  be  subject 
to  change  within  the  life  of  the  project 
plan. 


10 


The  Alaska  Pulp  Corporation  50-year 
timber  sale  contract  was  re-negotiated. 
There  were  two  changes  in  the  APC 
contract  which  directly  affected  the  the 
decision  to  study  the  Kelp  Bay  area.  The 
first  change  requires  the  Forest  Service 
to  designate  individual  operating  areas. 
The  second  change  provides  minimum 
and  maximum  limits  for  the  amount  of 
timber  volume  to  be  made  available 
each  year  to  the  Alaska  Pulp  Corpora- 
tion. The  first  change  allows  the  Forest 
Service  to  select  smaller  operating  ar- 
eas to  study,  like  the  eight  VCU’s  in  the 
Kelp  Bay  area.  The  second  change  fo- 
cuses on  efficiency,  in  terms  of  selecting 
a smaller  area  from  which  sufficient  vol- 
ume could  be  made  available  based  on 
a one  year  planning  effort. 

The  eight  VCU’s  in  the  Kelp  Bay  area 
appear  to  have  sufficient  volume  to  war- 
rant spending  staff  time  and  money  to 
investigate  the  possibility  of  making  tim- 
ber volume  available  to  APC.  In  addition 
to  appearing  to  have  sufficient  volume, 
the  area  has  been  previously  harvested 
in  the  early  1 960’s  and  mid  1 970’s.  The 
areas  of  past  harvest  have  regenerated, 
and  have  trees  which  range  from  1 5 to 
30  feet  tall.  Silviculturally,  this  area  is 
able  to  support  another  harvest. 


4.  Concern  that  monitoring  plans  be 
developed  during  the  course  of  the 
project,  and  not  be  something  "we 
promise"  to  do  after  the  EIS. 

FS  Response:  One  of  the  appendices 
to  the  Final  EIS  will  address  monitoring. 
As  with  any  monitoring  plan,  the  degree 
of  implementation  of  a monitoring  plan 
will  depend  upon  staffing  and  budgeting 
provided  by  Congress. 

5.  Concern  with  affects  on  cultural  re- 
sources. 

FS  Response:  This  originally  was  sent 
out  as  a potential  issue  in  the  scoping 
document.  Few  people  commented  on 
the  issue.  In  addition,  cultural  resources 
are  protected  by  law.  Cultural  resources 
will  not  be  tracked  actively  as  an  issue. 
Of  course,  the  affects  of  potential  activi- 
ties on  cultural  resources  will  be  evaluat- 
ed and  included  in  the  Draft  EIS.  Should 
timber  harvest  activities  be  in  conflict 
with  cultural  resources,  then  appropri- 
ate mitigation  measures  would  be  rec- 
ommended. 

What  is  the  next  logical  step? 

The  interdisciplinary  planning  team  will 
continue  collecting  field  information 
throughout  the  summer.  In  October,  the 
tentative  alternatives  will  be  developed 
prior  to  analysis  of  effects.  A third  infor- 
mational Bulletin  will  be  published 
sometime  in  the  fall  to  detail  the  areas 
being  considered  for  harvest  and  the 
themes  of  the  developed  alternatives. 


11 


Closing  Remarks 


We  hope  you  will  stay  active  in  the  planning  process.  Your  continued 
interest  and  participation  is  essential  for  us  to  be  successful.  We  look 
forward  to  working  with  you  in  managing  the  Tongass  National  Forest. 


For  Additional  Information  contact: 

Janis  Burns 

Kelp  Bay  Planning  Team  Leader 
204  Siginaka  Way 
Sitka,  AK  99835 


phone:  (907)  772-6671 


12 


USDA  FOREST  SERVICE 
TONGASS  NATIONAL  FOREST 
CHATHAM  AREA 
204  SIGINAKA  WAY 
SITKA,  ALASKA  99835 


