Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


I 


I 


FORUM 


The  Rhizosphere — A  Great 
Unknown 

Try  this  some  hot  summer  night:  Walk  barefooted  into 
your  backyard,  feel  the  grass  beneath  your  toes,  and  take  a 
good,  long  look  at  the  stars  above  you.  Then  consider  this: 
Modem  science,  with  all  its  high-tech  gadgets  and  wizard- 
ry, knows  more  about  the  realm  above  your  head  than  the 
few  inches  beneath  your  feet. 

But,  you  protest,  an  expensive,  complex  spaceship  is 
needed  to  explore  the  heavens,  whereas  all  it  takes  to 
explore  the  earth  is  a  shovel.  Here's  the  catch:  As  soon  as 
that  shovel's  edge  pierces  the  soil  surface,  as  soon  as  the 
first  chunk  of  soil  is  upturned,  the  world  beneath  the  grass 
becomes  a  world  disrupted,  altered  as  surely  as  if  it  had 
been  bombed. 

The  big,  still-unanswered  question  is:  What  goes  on 
in  the  undisturbed  regions  below  the  grass — what 
scientists  call  the  rhizosphere,  the  upper  6  to  24  inches 
of  the  Earth's  crust? 

We  know  one  answer  to  that  question  is  "a  lot."  While  it 
may  look  fairly  placid  to  the  naked  eye,  the  rhizosphere  is 
a  teeming  universe. 

It's  a  jungle  down  there,  complete  with  plants  such  as 
algae  and  plant  roots,  creatures  that  eat  the  plants  (nema- 
todes and  bacteria,  for  example),  creatures  that  eat  other 
creatures  (fungi,  insects,  and  rodents),  and  even  "vultures" 
of  a  kind — insects,  fungi,  and  bacteria — all  living  and 
working  together. 

Why  can't  we  see  all  of  this  going  on  in  its  natural  state? 
The  answer  is  obvious:  The  soil  that  is  home  to  these 
entities  is  generally  dense  and  certainly  not  transparent,  so 
it's  difficult  for  light  and  other  electromagnetic  waves  to 
pass  through  it  and  bring  back  the  information  we  want. 

Sure,  you  can  dig  up  a  chunk  of  soil  and  study  it.  But  that's 
similar  to  plucking  someone  from,  say,  the  Kalahari  Desert 
and  taking  them  to  Manhattan  to  study  how  people  live  in 
the  Kalahari  Desert.  Much  gets  lost  in  the  transportation. 

In  the  case  of  the  transplanted  soil,  digging  it  up 
destroys  soil  structural  characteristics;  changes  the  rela- 
tionships between  soil  organisms,  soil  chemicals,  and  soil 
particles;  and  changes  the  gases  in  the  soil — more  oxygen 
added  (from  the  digging  and  "tluftlng"),  more  carbon 
dioxide  lost  from  its  former  hiding  places  in  the  soil. 

Then  there  are  the  soil  microorganisms.  Some  die  from 
drying  out  as  their  home  is  exposed  to  the  atmosphere; 
others  suffer  from  exposure  to  light.  All  in  all.  digging  is 
not  a  vei7  efficient  way  to  learn  what's  going  on  in  the  soil. 

Fortunately,  we  do  have  tools  more  sophisticated  than 
shovels  for  our  exploration  of  the  rhizosphere.  One  is  a 
rhizotron — in  simple  terms,  a  deep  trench  with  a  plate  of 


glass  against  one  wall  and  a  roof  over  the  whole  structure. 
This  allows  scientists  to  go  down  into  the  trench  and  watch 
through  the  glass  as  roots  grow  and  the  larger  denizens  of 
the  rhizosphere  go  about  their  routines. 

Another  tool  is  the  minirhizotron,  a  clear  plastic  tube  in 
the  soil,  through  which  a  mirror  or  tiny  camera  goes 
exploring.  But  again,  light  is  needed  to  collect  the  images, 
the  tube  itself  disrupts  the  underground  environment,  and 
the  overall  area  observed  is  very  small. 

Then  there's  Computer  Assisted  Tomography  scan- 
ning— a  CAT  scan,  just  like  the  medical  profession  uses, 
and  other  imaging  techniques  that  offer  a  glimpse  of  the 
underground  world,  or  at  least  small  portions  of  it. 

Do  we  really  need  to  know  that  much  about  the  rhizo- 
sphere, the  comings  and  goings  of  soil  microorganisms,  the 
life  cycle  of  herbivores  and  carnivores  that,  for  the  most 
part,  we  can't  even  see? 

The  answer  is  an  emphatic  "yes."  Humans  and  animals 
alike  eat  plants,  and  other  plants  give  us  shelter  (trees  for 
lumber)  and  clothing  (cotton,  for  example).  The  life 
support  system  for  these  life-supporting  plants  is  their 
roots,  and  the  circumstances  of  the  rhizosphere  have  a 
dramatic  impact  on  the  development  and  life  of  these  roots. 

Too  few  of  the  right  kind  of  microorganisms,  and  a 
soybean  plant  isn't  going  to  thrive  and  put  forth  its  full 
potential  in  beans.  Too  dense  a  soil  layer,  and  a  plant's 
roots  can't  push  down  for  moisture  to  sustain  it  when  the 
summer  turns  scorching. 

Gases  are  another  important  component  of  the  rhizo- 
sphere. For  example,  oxygen  concentrations  in  water- 
saturated  soil  may  fall  below  2  percent.  This  low  level  of 
oxygen  triggers  a  whole  host  of  responses  in  a  plant, 
including  the  production  of  the  gaseous  plant  growth 
regulator,  ethylene. 

While  plants  typically  produce  this  gas  at  \cry  low 
levels  during  growth  and  development,  higher  concentra- 
tions can  inhibit  root  growth.  Usually  ethylene  isn't 
produced  in  lai'ge  enough  amounts  to  cause  that  sort  of 
trouble — but  it  can  happen  when  there's  not  enough 
oxygen  in  the  soil. 

Plant  roots  and  the  underground  world  lhe\'  li\  e  in  arc 
so  closely  intertwined  that  the  boundary  belw  ecu  ihcni  cdn 
be  hard  to  pinpoint.  Just  as  scientists  are  struggling  to  leiu"n 
more  about  the  support  system  that  makes  our  world 
possible — plant  roots — we  also  need  to  learn  more  about 
the  other  mysteries  beneath  the  grass.  We  can"t  afford  lo 
ignore  this  underground  frontier. 

Richard  W.  Zobel 

U.S.  Plant,  Soil,  and  Nutrition  Laboratory 
Ithaca,  New  York 


2 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


Agricultural  Research 


Cover:  ARS  hydrologist  Doug  Boyer  (right)  and  aide  Derek  Hall  collect 
water  samples  from  a  stream  in  a  West  Virginia  limestone  cave.  The  calcite 
formation  in  the  background  is  The  Haystack  in  McClung's  Cave. 

Photo  by  Scott  Bauer.  (K5 168-3) 


4    Scientists  Go  Underground  To  Check  Water  Quality 

Caves  reveal  pollution  pathways  in  agricultural  areas. 

10  GRENZWURZELN? 

19th  century  German  term  describes  a  fourth  type  of  plant  roots. 

13  Subterranean  Fixation 

Scientists  are  discovering  the  role  of  roots  in  maintaining  soil  nitrogen. 

14  Figtiting  Fruit  Decay  Nature's  Way 

A  Candida  yeast  helps  protect  and  preserve  citrus  for  storage. 

16  Sugarbeets.  Controlling  Pests  in  the  Next  Century 

The  emphasis  is  on  nonchemical  alternatives. 

20  Defining  Mineral  Needs  of  Pregnant  Cows 

Knowledge  will  help  dairy  farmers  provide  the  proper  nutrients. 

21  Fighting  the  Insect  Enemy  in  Somalia 

Deet  and  permethrin  products  defend  troops  against  disease. 

22  Berry  Delightful! 

Two  new  strawberries  are  especially  good  for  processing. 

22  Medflies  Prefer  Less-Acidic  Bait 

Improvement  also  may  be  more  environmentally  benign. 

23  Science  Update 


Vol.  41,  No.  8 
August  1993 

Editor:  Lloyd  McLaughlin  (301)344-2514 

Associate  Editor:  Linda  McElreath  (30 1 )  344-2536 

Art  Director:  William  Johnson  (301)344-2561 

Contributing  Editor:  Jeanne  Wiggen  (301)  344-2502 

Photo  Editor:  John  Kucharski  (301)344-2900 

Assoc.  Photo  Editor:  Anita  Daniels  (301)344-2956 

Reference  to  commercial  products  and  services  is 
made  with  the  understanding  that  no  discrimination 
is  intended  and  no  endorsement  by  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture  is  implied. 

Agricultural  Research  is  published  monthly  by  the 
Agricultural  Research  Service,  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  DC  20250-2350. 


The  Secretary  of  Agriculture  has  determined  that 
publication  of  this  periodical  is  necessary  in  the 
transaction  of  public  business  required  by  law. 

Information  in  this  magazine  is  public  property  and 
may  be  reprinted  without  permission.  Non- 
copyrighted photos  are  available  to  mass  media  in 
color  transparencies  or  black  and  white  prints. 
Order  by  photo  number  and  date  of  magazine  issue. 

Subscription  requests  should  be  placed  with  New 
Orders,  Superintendent  of  Documents,  P.O.  Box 
371954,  Pittsburgh,  PA  15250-7954.  Please  see 
back  cover  for  order  form. 

This  publication  was  printed  with  soybean  oil- 
based  inks. 


When  writing  to  request  address  changes  or 
deletions,  please  include  a  recent  address  label. 

Address  magazine  inquiries  or  comments  to: 

The  Editor,  Information  Staff,  Room  408,  6303  Ivy 

Lane,  Greenbelt,  MD  20770 

Mike  Espy,  Secretary 

U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

R.D.  Plowman,  Administrator 
Agricultural  Research  Service 

Robert  W.  Norton,  Director 
Information  Staff 


Agricultural  Research/ August  1993 


3 


Scientists  Go  Underground 
To  Check  Water  Quality 


The  gate's  shut  and  the  stick 
trap  is  set,"  Derek  Hall  says. 
That's  the  signal  for  Doug 
Boyer  to  move  on  through  the  Hole  of 
the  Devil. 

Boyer  points  to  the  jaw  and  leg- 
bones  on  the  ground,  the  stark  remains 
of  a  long-dead  farm  cow.  Then  he 
squeezes,  winds,  crawls,  stoops,  glides, 
jumps,  splashes,  plunges,  soaks,  wades, 
and  slithers  his  way  through  the 
muddy,  narrow  passage  called  The 
Bathtub  and  Barefoot  Creek. 

The  stick  trap  is  placed  strategically 
so  it  will  be  knocked  down  by  anyone 
entering  the  cave  behind  Boyer  and 
Hall.  They  don't  want  to  lock  the  gate 
on  the  way  out  and  accidentally  seal 
any  adventurer  in  The  Hole's  caverns. 

Despite  the  challenge  of  negotiating 
the  series  of  bathtublike  holes  along  the 
tight,  400-foot-long  entrance  passage. 
The  Hole  has  turned  Boyer  into  a 
spelunker,  or  cave  explorer.  An 
Agricultural  Research  Service  hydrolo- 
gist  in  Beckley,  West  Virginia,  Boyer 
has  come  to  see  caving  as  a  way  to  get 
a  worm's  eye  view  of  agricultural 
pollution.  "Caves  are  Nature's  drainage 
pipes,"  he  says. 

In  fact.  Bill  Edwards — an  ARS  soil 
physicist  in  Ohio  who  studies  earth- 
worm tunnels  as  macropores  that  can 
funnel  farm  runoff  downward  toward 
groundwater — once  accompanied 
Boyer  on  a  caving  expedition.  He'd 
been  intrigued  by  Boyer' s  boast  that 
"we  have  macropores  big  enough  to 
walk  through." 

Says  Boyer,  "Besides  size,  another 
difference  between  wormholes  and 
caves  is  this:  Caves  descend  hundreds 
of  feet,  to  deep  groundwater,  while 
nightcrawler  holes  go  down  only  a  few 
feet.  -\nd  sinkholes  above  the  caves 
can  act  as  giant  funnels  directing  farm 
runoff  water  into  caves.  We're  con- 
cerned because  cave  streams  feed 
surface  springs  and  wells  used  for 
drinking  water." 


Boyer  is  often  accompanied  by  Hall, 
who  works  summers  for  ARS.  He  is  an 
avid  spelunker  and  a  geology  student  at 
Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  and  State 
University,  Blacksburg,  Virginia. 

When  they  make  their  serpentine 
journeys  through  The  Hole,  they  are 
creeping  under  the  6-square-mile  Hole 
Basin  in  Greenbrier  County  in  south- 


eastern West  Virginia.  The  area's 
unstable  topography  is  the  result  of 
underground  water  flowing  through 
hmestone  bedrock  and  forming  cav- 
erns, sinking  streams,  and  sinkholes. 

The  sinkholes  are  ground-level 
depressions  formed  as  surface  water 
moves  through  fractures  in  hmestone, 
often  draining  into  underground 


SCOTT  BAUER 


i  ■ 


Hydrologist  Doug  Boyer  and  farmer  Lloyd  Burns  visit  a  sinkhole  on  Burns*  land  near 
Lewisburg,  West  Virginia.  (K5165-1) 


4 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


passages.  The  water  dissolves  and 
breaks  up  the  limestone  as  it  goes 
along,  eventually  flushing  away 
limestone  pieces  as  it  carves  out 
underground  passages. 

Over  time,  the  ground  above  col- 
lapses, forming  surface  depressions  re- 
sembling potholes.  Some  view  sink- 
holes as  being  like  injection  wells 


through  which  water,  along  with  any 
chemicals  that  are  either  dissolved  in 
water  or  attached  to  small  particles, 
are  channeled  into  groundwater. 

The  Hole  is  one  of  several  drainage 
basins  in  West  Virginia's  Greenbrier 
River  Valley  watershed,  which  is  one 
of  37  chosen  in  1990  as  demonstration 
sites  for  providing  intensive  educational 


and  technical  assistance  to  farmers. 
Each  of  the  watersheds  was  chosen 
because  the  potential  for  agriculture- 
related  problems  to  develop  had  been 
identified  in  state  Clean  Water  Act 
reports  to  the  U.S.  Environmental 
Protection  Agency. 

The  hydrologic  unit  demonstration 
and  research  project  is  part  of  a  larger 
research  and  demonstration  project 
under  the  Department  of  Agriculture's 
Water  Quality  Initiative.  The  initiative 
is  designed  to  help  farmers  comply 
with  state  pollution  management 
programs  authorized  by  the  federal 
Clean  Water  Act  of  1987. 

The  project's  purpose  is  to  ensure 
that  surface  and  underground  water 
supplies  are  protected  through  safe  use 
of  fertilizers,  manure,  and  pesticides. 

"We  want  to  understand  waterflow 
in  limestone  so  the  USDA  Soil  Con- 
servation Service  can  show  farmers 
the  best  ways  to  protect  underground 
water  supplies,"  Boyer  says. 

As  pait  of  the  water  quality  study, 
Boyer  samples  Greenbrier  Valley 
springs  at  least  weekly,  with  occasion- 
al samphngs  of  the  less  accessible  cave 
streams.  He  checks  for  nitrate  from 
fertilizers  and  manure,  as  well  as  for 
herbicides. 

Life  Underground 

Shade-seeking  cows  usually  watch 
Boyer  and  Hall  as  they  change  into 
long  underwear,  extra  layers  of 
clothing,  helmets,  and  overalls — 
despite  sweltering  summer  heat.  As  the 
cavers  descend  toward  the  entrance, 
they  are  immediately  refreshed  by  a 
flow  of  cool  air  from  the  cave,  their 
breaths  condensing  from  the  cave  air. 

The  entrance  called  Gibbs  that 
Boyer  unlocks  this  day  is  one  of  three 
used  by  the  scientists  to  access  this 
totally  dai^k  underworld  illuminated 
only  by  odoriferous  carbide  gas  lamps 
attached  to  the  cavers'  helmets. 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


5 


Nothing  can  see  in  caves  without 
these  hghts.  Foxes  and  raccoons 
depend  on  a  scent  trail  to  enter  and  exit 
through  both  the  human  entrances  and 
possibly  smaller,  unknown  ones.  Bats 
the  size  of  very  small  mice  come  and 
go  via  tiny  cracks  hidden  by  pasture 
grass,  navigating  around  cave  curves 
and  human  cavers  by  bouncing  sound 
waves  off  them. 

Many  creatures  seek  the  cool  of 
cave  interiors  during  summer  because, 
says  Boyer,  "Caves  always  stay  at  the 
average  annual  temperature  of  an  area. 
In  West  Virginia,  it's  54  degrees." 

Armies  of  cave  crickets  enter  and 
leave  through  their  own  secret  passag- 
es, with  two-thirds  of  their  forces  from 
each  day's  outing  always  remaining  in 
the  cave,  for  unknown  reasons.  Sala- 
manders scurry  blindly  up  cave  ledges 
as  mostly  flatworms  move  about  in  the 
Ashless  underground  streams.  Some- 
times an  earthworm  falls  into  a  cave 
stream  and  survives  to  reproduce 
offspring  with  slighdy  different  band 
markings  probably  caused  by  the 
absence  of  light. 

A  biologist  Boyer  once  took  to  the 
stream  was  disappointed  by  the  lack  of 
diversity  in  stream  life,  a  possible 
indicator  of  pollution. 

Limestone  Caves 

The  Hole  is  called  a  contact  cave 
because  it  was  formed  by  water 
steadily  carving  out  the  limestone 
down  to  where  it  met  an  insoluble  layer 
of  shale.  The  cave  entrances  formed 
where  the  shale  layer  surfaced  and 
became  a  surface  streambed. 

Crawling  over  the  crumbly  and 
noisy  shale  pieces  thai  Hnc  the  creek 
beds,  Boyer  and  Hall  follow  the  shale 
steadily  down,  usually  at  a  gradual  3- 
to4-degree  slope.  Following  Barefoot 
Creek's  more  abrupt  drops  and  con- 
tinuing on  through  aptly  named 
formations  like  The  Long  Ro(mii.  The 
Crossover,  Adjacent  Stream,  Spike 


Street,  Bullwinkle  Boulevard,  Broken 
Crockery  Passage,  and  The  Maze,  they 
are  soon  hundreds  of  feet  below  the 
basements  of  farm  houses  and  bams, 
cow  pastures,  and  cornfields. 

Bullwinkle  Boulevard  gets  its  name 
from  a  calcite  formation  that  bears  an 
uncanny  resemblance  to  the  cartoon 
character  Bullwinkle  Moose.  Spike 
Street  is  marked  by  a  spike  made  of 
gypsum  crystal. 


SCOTT  BAUER 


At  Davis  Spring,  which  is  an  exit  point  tor 
underground  cave  streams  in  ARS' 
Greenbrier  hydroh)gic  demonstration 
project,  technician  Dale  Baker  tests  water 
quality.  (K5166-19) 


Stalactites  and  stalagmites  decorate 
the  passages,  sometimes  flowing  like 
stage  curtains,  other  times  meeting  to 
form  columns. 

There  ai"e  38  farms  above  The 
Hole — two  dozen  that  raise  cows  and 
calves,  a  dozen  dairy  farms,  and  two 
turkey  farms. 

The  Hole  has  a  bad  reputation 
among  cavers  because  of  the  4-foot- 
high  Bathtub  passage  and  many  miles 


of  other  small  crawlways.  It  was  named 
after  Holloch  Cave  in  Switzerland, 
where  Holloch  means  hole  of  the  devil. 

The  Hole  consists  of  23  mapped 
miles  of  labyrinthine  passages  carved 
by  the  Shale  River  and  its  tributaries  as 
they  wound  their  way  down  hundreds 
of  feet  below  the  surface.  Some  of  the 
passages  lie  one  above  the  other,  at 
different  levels.  Over  centuries,  the 
water  ate  away  much  of  the  limestone 
layer  at  its  point  of  contact  with  shale 
bedrock.  At  its  deepest,  the  cave  is 
under  750  feet  of  limestone.  It  is  one  of 
the  longest  caves  in  the  world. 

Bill  Balfour,  who  has  mapped 
much  of  The  Hole  and  much  of  the 
400  miles  of  other  mapped  caverns  in 
Greenbrier,  helped  introduce  Boyer  to 
the  county's  caves.  Balfour  is  a 
volunteer  with  the  West  Virginia 
Association  for  Cave  Studies,  which 
helps  researchers  like  Boyer. 

"We  have  accumulated  data  ox  er  30 
years  and  can  save  cave  explorers  the 
years  of  work  it  takes  to  compile 
information  on  caves  or  kLU  stic  areas," 
Balfour  says.  "We  give  them  maps, 
suggest  likely  water  sampling  spots, 
and  delineate  drainage  basins  for  them, 
so  they're  not  going  in  blind." 

He  believes  that  Boyer' s  work  is 
"very  important  because  it  provides 
good  baseline  information  on  water 
quality  in  limestone  bedrock  areas."  He 
notes  that  "a  tremendous  amount  of  the 
country  is  underlain  by  limestone.  A  lot 
of  good  pasture,  good  rolling  farmland, 
lies  over  this  limestone  and  many 
people  draw  their  drinking  water  from 
holes  in  the  limestone  bedrock." 

Not  many  people  pump  w  ater  from 
limestone  in  The  Hole  Basin.  Balfour 
says,  but  more  do  toward  ihc  \\  esi  of 
the  Basin,  where  the  bedrock  becomes 
thicker  and  it's  harder  lo  drill  through 
to  shale  or  sandstone. 

Greenbrier  County  sils  in  the  middle 
of  the  Appalachian  Karst.  a  topography 
that  results  from  the  work  of  under- 
ground water  on  limestone  bedrock. 


6 


Agriculiural  Research/August  1993 


Balfour  says.  Karst  comes  from  the 
German  kras.  w  hich  refers  to  the  bleak, 
rock}'  limestone  found  in  coastal  areas 
in  the  former  Yugoslavia. 

The  major  U.S.  karstic  areas  occur 
in  Kenmcky.  Indiana.  Missouri,  east- 
em  Kansas.  Oklahoma,  northeast 
Iowa,  Wisconsin,  other  parts  of  Appa- 
lachia.  and  Florida. 

Even  though  the  large,  dramatic 
karstic  topograph}'  is  limited  to  these 
areas,  there  are  caves  in  just  about  ev- 
ery state  in  the  countr}'.  Balfour  sa}'S. 

The  Karst  Plateau  in  Appalachia  is 
hardly  stark.  Boyer  sa}  s.  It  is  actually 
the  most  lush  land  to  be  found  in  that 
mountainous  region  of  acid  soils.  The 
gentler  limestone  terrain  and  soil 
characteristics  make  it  a  more  hospita- 
ble place  for  grass. 

Native  Americans  learned  this  and 
expanded  grasslands  in  the  area  for 
buffalo  pasture  b}'  burning  forests 
down.  Boyer  says.  Now  the  area  is 
called  The  Great  Savarmah. 

The  Sa\  annah  grass  makes  it  hard 
for  the  casual  observ  er  to  distineuish 
sinkholes  from  river  valleys. 

What's  Above  Affects  \^Tiat's 
Below 

In  the  Hole  of  the  De\  iL  Boyer  and 
Hall  are  deep  under  a  farmstead.  They 
stop  to  look  at  a  section  of  the  farm's 
well  casing,  a  6-inch  metal  tube 
inserted  about  200  feet  down  for 
drinking  water.  When  they  return  to 
the  surface,  they  can  see  the  windmill 
that  pumps  the  water. 

About  5  feet  of  the  well  casins's 
length  is  exposed  momentarily  in  one 
of  the  passageways  card  ed  by  Adja- 
cent Stream.  The  well  goes  down 
below  The  Hole  and  draws  from  the 
shale  layer  beneath  the  cave  floor. 
Once,  they  persuaded  the  farmer  to 
join  them  on  a  3-hour  journey  to  the 
well  and  back. 

The  farmer's  decision  to  draw 
water  from  beneath  the  cave  was 


Agricultural  Research/ August  1993 


wise,  Boyer  says.  His  samplings  of 
cave  water  and  springs  for  the  past  2 
years  have  convinced  him  not  to  drink 
the  water.  Besides  nitrate,  he  samples 
for  atrazine  and  related  herbicides 
used  to  control  weeds  in  cornfields. 

He  also  samples  for  two  kinds  of  fe- 
cal bacteria.  When  a  high  bacteria 
count  coincides  with  a  high  nitrate 
measurement,  Boyer  believes  the  nitrate 
came  from  manure  rather  than  commer- 
cial fertilizer  or  a  natural  source. 

If  Boyer  has  any  doubts,  after 
leaving  the  cave,  he  can  drive  his 
truck  around  the  farm  and  see  if  there 
are  cows  above  that  part  of  The  Hole. 

While  bats  turn  their  upside-down 
heads  slowly  in  his  direction — trying, 
perhaps,  to  decide  if  it's  time  to  wake 
up  and  fly  away — Boyer  uses  a 
syringe  to  collect  beads  of  water  that 
decorate  the  cave  ceiling  like  little 
pendant  jewels  under  the  artificial  light. 

He's  invariably  found  high  levels 
of  nitrate  in  these  drops.  Boyer 
believes  that  natural  soil  bacteria  in 
the  cave  are  forming  the  nitrate  by 
oxidizing  ammonia  when  it  enters  the 
cave  air.  He  plans  to  conduct  experi- 
ments to  check  on  this  theory.  Like 
nitrate,  the  ammonia  can  come  from 
commercial  fertilizer,  manure,  or 
natural  sources. 

Boyer' s  journey  today  ended  at 
The  Maze,  just  below  the  sinkhole 
that  feeds  South  Maze  Stream,  barely 
a  half  mile's  journey.  The  one-way 
trip  took  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Boyer  calls  this  part  of  South  Maze 
Stream  either  Black  Stream  or  Brown 
Stream,  depending  on  how  much 
biological  ooze  it  contains  on  a 
particular  day. 

In  it  and  its  tributaries,  Boyer  has 
found  average  nitrate  levels  of  80 
parts  per  million  (ppm),  accompanied 
by  an  excessive  fecal  coliform 
bacterial  count  of  1  (),()()()  colonics  per 
hundred  milliliters.  U.S.  Environmen- 
tal Protection  Agency  guidelines  for 


nitrate  levels  in  drinking  water  call 
for  a  maximum  of  45  ppm. 

Boyer  explains  the  reason  for  the 
drinking  water  guidelines:  "Nitrate 
can  cause  blue  baby  syndrome  in 
infants  and  can  kill  them  at  300  ppm. 
When  water  is  boiled  as  it  is  for 
infant  formula,  nitrate  is  left  behind 
as  water  evaporates.  With  initial 
nitrate  levels  above  45  ppm,  the 
boiled  water  could  concentrate  levels 
to  300  ppm  or  more.  Also,  nitrate — 
like  nitrite  which  some  people  avoid 


SCOTT  BAUER 


There  are  about  a  thousand  caves  in 
Greenbrier  County.  Here,  hydrologist 
Doug  Boyer  emerges  from  The  Hole  after 
collecting  water  quality  samples.  (K5 167-3) 


eating  because  of  health  concerns — 
can  convert  to  carcinogenic  com- 
pounds, under  certain  conditions. 

"You  don't  see  levels  anywhere 
near  80  ppm  in  the  springs  that 
emerge  from  these  caves,  because 
they  are  diluted  by  cleaner  water 
before  they  emerge,"  Boyer  says. 
"But  we  can  sample  the  water  under 
each  different  land  use  and  discern 
the  effects  from  that  one  land  use." 
All  he  has  to  do  is  crawl  around 


underground  until  he  reaches  the 
cavern  directly  below  the  suspect  site. 

Boyer  explains  that  over  the  years, 
sinkholes  have  been  seen  as  conve- 
nient dumping  places  by  people  un- 
aware of  their  role  as  funnels  to 
caves.  State  law  forbids  dumping  ob- 
jects but  not  agricultural  waste  into 
the  sinkholes. 

Lloyd  Burns,  a  farmer  who  calls 
Boyer  whenever  he  finds  a  hole  in  his 
fields,  taught  Boyer  another  reason 
farmers  used  to  fill  sinkholes.  Burns 
has  a  258-acre  cattle  farm  in  the  roll- 
ing hills  of  Greenbrier  County,  above 
several  other  caves  that  Boyer  has 
also  sampled. 

Bums  told  Boyer  he  grew  up  with 
the  story  of  how  one  of  his  father's 
cows  slipped  through  a  sinkhole 
opening  in  the  1920's.  falling  50  feet 
down.  His  pai'ents  often  took  him  to  the 
opening  and  told  how  his  father.  Sully, 
was  lowered  into  the  sinkhole  by  his 
neighbors  and  a  team  of  horses.  Sully 
tied  the  cow  to  a  harness  and  had  the 
team  of  horses  pull  the  cow  back  up. 
Then  his  neighbors  lowered  a  rope  for 
Sully  to  escape  as  well. 

The  cow  was  unhurt,  her  fall 
cushioned  by  deep,  thick  mud  at  the 
bottom  of  the  sinkhole.  She  survi\'ed 
to  become  pregnant  and  gi\  e  birth  to 
healthy  twins. 

Burns  didn't  realize  he'd  get  to  see 
his  father  in  action  again.  When  he 
was  6  years  old,  he  went  to  feed  some 
calves  and  noticed  iw  o  missing.  He 
knew  where  to  check:  Sure  enough. 
Sully  had  to  perform  his  legendary 
feat  again,  lowering  himself  b\  rope 
into  the  sinkhole  and  emerging  with 
the  help  of  horses. 

That  was  ihc  lasl  slraw  for  Sully. 
He  filled  the  sinkhole  with  old  fence 
wire  and  put  a  fence  around  it. 

Bo\  er  persuaded  Burns  to  reopen 
the  sinkhole  so  he  and  other  cavers 
could  explore  it.  Bums,  Boyer,  and 
several  Boy  Scouts  removed  enough  de- 
bris to  wairant  a  few  tiips  to  the  landfill. 


8 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


Boyer  takes  water  samples  on  the 
Bums  farm  at  least  once  a  week; 
daily,  after  a  heavy  rain. 

Burns  says  he  is  constantly  on  the 
lookout  for  agricultural  pollution 
problems  so  he  can  do  his  part  to  stop 
a  problem  before  it  gets  big.  "I'm  the 
last  person  to  want  pollution.  I  get  my 
water  from  wells  and  would  be  totally 
helpless  without  it." 

"I  hope  there  won't  be  excessive 
regulations  on  agriculture —  only 
needed  ones,"  he  adds.  "I  believe  the 
truth  about  agricultural  pollution  is 
somewhere  between  what  is  said  by 
extremists  on  both  sides  of  the  issue. 
Still,  we  can't  continue  to  mess  up  the 
land,  throw  trash  on  it.  I'm  concerned 
about  keeping  the  Greenbrier  River 
pure  and  clean." 

Tracing  the  Green  Stream 

Boyer  is  currently  timing  the  flow  of 
water  through  sinkholes  by  having 
colleagues  flush  hundreds  of  gallons  of 
green-dyed  water  down  each  sinkhole. 
He  has  them  wait  2  hours  after  he 
enters  a  cave,  to  give  him  time  to  reach 
the  stream  below  the  sinkhole. 

When  it  rains  hard  enough  to  flush 
the  dye  down,  Boyer  checks  to  see 
how  long  it  takes  before  the  dye 
appears  in  a  surface  spring.  He  uses 
the  dye,  which  is  harmless,  to  confirm 
hydraulic  connections,  such  as 
whether  a  particular  sinkhole  feeds  a 
certain  cave  stream  far  beyond  The 
Hole's  South  Maze  Stream.  He  has 
traced  waterflow  through  "bits  and 
pieces  of  caves"  to  a  spring  on  the 
Bums  farm. 

Boyer  double-checks  the  dye 
connections  by  traveling  through  caves 
with  a  compass,  measuring  tape,  and 
inclinometer  to  locate  himself  with 
respect  to  the  surface  by  checking 
direction  and  angle  of  incUne. 

"We  study  waterflow  through 
limestone  because  that's  the  route 
agrichemicals  also  take,"  Boyer  says. 


"Pollutants  can  travel  much  faster 
and  in  different  directions  in  caves, 
compared  to  other  topographies." 

While  he  doesn't  see  widespread 
agricultural  problems  so  far,  Boyer 
says  it  is  important  to  monitor  spring 
and  cave  water  so  nitrate  doesn't  get 
into  groundwater. 

Furthermore,  "The  accurate 
mapping  of  these  underground 
drainage  patterns  will  help  the  Soil 
Conservation  Service  work  with 
farmers  to  develop  farm  management 


SCOTT  BAUER 


Nitrobacter  bacteria  are  suspected  of 
creating  the  high  nitrate  concentrations 
found  in  condensation  droplets  that 
hydrologist  Doug  Boyer  is  collecting  near 
the  entrance  of  The  Hole  cave.  (K5164-2) 


plans  and  practices  that  minimize  the 
possibility  of  groundwater  pollu- 
tion "—By  Don  Comis,  ARS. 

Doug  Boyer  is  at  the  USDA-ARS 
Appalachian  Soil  &  Water  Conserva- 
tion Research  Laboratory,  P.  O.  Box 
867,  Airport  Road,  Beckley,  WV 
25802-0867.  Phone  (304)  252-6426, 
fax  number  (304)  256-2921.  ♦ 


Beckley:  The  Town  With  a  Mine 
of  Its  Own 

You  can't  spend  even  a  day  in 
Beckley,  West  Virginia,  without  get- 
ting an  urge  to  go  underground. 

Fortunately,  as  the  town's  slogan 
implies,  the  town  obligingly  offers 
daily  visits  to  an  old  coal  mine. 

About  a  half  mile  from  Beckley' s 
airport,  the  National  Mine  Health 
and  Safety  Academy  nestles  in 
mountainous  woodland  across  the 
street  from  the  ARS  Appalachian 
Soil  and  Water  Conservation  Re- 
search Laboratory.  The  lab  sits  on  43 
acres  of  similarly  rugged  terrain. 

The  academy  addresses  all  mining 
safety-related  activities  throughout 
the  United  States.  And  although  the 
ARS  lab  itself  covers  only  the  121- 
million-acre  Appalachian  Region,  it 
Unks  to  other  ARS  labs  nationwide 
and  is  becoming  an  intemational  au- 
thority on  acid  soils. 

Even  the  academy's  hotel  and 
classroom  buildings  have  a  decidedly 
underground  feel,  with  low  lighting, 
exposed  girders,  and  photos  of  mines. 

The  ARS  lab  opened  in  Beckley 
in  1980,  to  research  reclamation  of 
the  acid  soils  of  abandoned  strip- 
mined  areas.  Its  mission  has  expand- 
ed over  the  years  to  focus  on  farm- 
land soils  that  are  naturally  acidic 
and  infertile. 

The  lab  has  always  had  a  water 
quality  mission,  beginning  with 
studying  the  effects  of  runoff  from 
abandoned  mines.  Now  its  role  in 
USDA's  Water  QuaUty  Initiative  has 
brought  it  into  the  area  of  natural 
cavems  as  well.  Fortunately,  these 
"mines"  are  much  more  structurally 
stable  than  coal  mines,  because  un- 
derground rivers  like  the  Shale  River 
have  eroded  all  the  weak  layers  and 
left  mostiy  solid  shale  below  and 
thick  hmestone  above. — ^Don 
Comis,  ARS. 


Agricultural  Research/ August  1993 


9 


Plant  geneticist  Ricliard  Zobel  examines  corn  roots  suspended  in  an  aeroponic  cliamber 
where  mist  provides  both  moisture  and  nutrients  for  growth.  (K5169-5) 


any  people  know  a  German 
word  or  two  that  bring  a 
smile:  strudel,  gesundheit, 
or  maybe  fahrvergnligen.  For  Rich 
Zobel,  it's  "grenzwLirzeln." 

That's  the  name — translated 
roughly  as  "boundary  roots" — that  a 
group  of  German  scientists  pinned  on 
a  specific  type  of  plant  root  back  in 
the  mid- 1 800' s. 

But  through  the  years,  other 
scientists  have  discounted  the  exist- 
ence of  these  roots  as  a  separate  type, 
contending  they  are  simply  a  varia- 
tion of  the  better  known  adventitious 
roots.  But  in  the  1970's,  Zobel  not 
only  began  believing  in  grcn/.wur- 
zeln — he  grew  them. 


"The  scientific  literature  has 
always  indicated  there  were  only 
three  types  of  plant  roots,"  says 
Zobel,  a  plant  geneticist  with  the 
Agricultural  Research  Service  at 
Ithaca,  New  York. 

"There  were  the  tap  root,  the  first 
to  emerge  in  germination;  the  lateral 
roots  that  do  the  real  exploring  in  the 
soil;  and  adventitious  roots  thai 
initiate  from  the  stem  and  keep  the 
plant  standing  up." 

Zobel  first  recognized  grenzwur- 
zeln  in  the  early  1970's  while  work- 
ing with  mutant  tomato  plants. 

"A  mutant  is  caused  by  one  or 
more  genes  doing  something  differ- 
ent," he  explains.  "It  turns  out  that 


tomatoes  have  quite  a  few  genes  thai 
don't  have  lots  of  copies  in  the 
chromosome.  So  in  a  tomato  plant,  a 
gene  that's  making  the  difference  is 
easier  to  find. 

"I  thought  that  if  1  coukl  find 
certain  crucial  genes  in  tomatoes  first 
I  could  then  look  for  those  same 
genes  in  other  crops  such  as  corn." 

When  Zobel  crossed  a  mutant 
tomato  plant  that  had  no  lateral  roots 
with  one  that  had  no  adventitious 
roots,  he  should  ha\  c  gotten  an 
offspring  w  ith  onl\  a  lap  root, 
according  to  the  con\  entional  wisdon 
that  said  onl\  those  three  t\  pes  of 
roots  existed. 


10 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


Instead,  the  crossbred  offspring 
had  a  tap  root,  plus  half  a  dozen  other 
large  roots  sprouting  from  the  plant's 
base.  These  Zobel  dubbed  "basal 
roots,"  in  reference  to  their  point  of 
origin  on  the  plant,  but  he  says 
they're  the  same  as  the  Germans' 
grenzwurzeln. 

Two  years  later,  Zobel  discovered 
another  believer  in  grenzwurzeln — a 
scientist  named  Lenore  Weinhold. 

"She  had  pubUshed  a  paper  in  1966 
that  showed  basal  roots  existed  in 
monocotyledonous  plants  such  as 
wheat  and  com,  as  well  as  in  dicotyle- 
donous plants  like  tomatoes  and 
soybeans,"  says  Zobel.  "But  nobody 
really  paid  attention,  just  as  they'd 
ignored  the  earher  scientists." 

Zobel  isn't  particularly  surprised  by 
the  confusion  about  how  many  types  of 
roots  exist.  Li  fact,  he  says  the  entire 
science  of  roots  is  as  tangled  as  an 
uprooted  com  plant,  starting  with  the 
names  of  the  various  roots. 

"Just  look  at  the  tap  root,"  he  says. 
"The  name  "tap  root"  refers  to  the 
tendency  of  the  first  root  to  emerge 
from  the  germinating  seedling  and 
grow  directly  downward,  "tapping" 
the  soil.  But  it's  also  called  both  the 
radicle  and  the  primary  root,  because 
it's  the  first  one  and  the  main  root  for 
supporting  seedling  growth  and 
development. 

"Frequently,  additional  roots 
develop  in  the  plant  embryo  and 
emerge  soon  after  the  tap  root.  These 
roots  are  called  seminal  roots  in 
grasses,  but  they're  also  called  laterals, 
adventitious  roots,  primary  laterals,  and 
primary  adventitious  roots." 

Until  Zobel' s  and  Weinhold' s 
work,  the  seminal  roots  of  grasses 
were  thought  to  be  some  sort  of 
variation  of  an  adventitious  root, 
rather  than  a  separate  type. 

Looking  beyond  and  comphcating 
the  question  of  identity,  Zobel  points  out 
that  roots'  roles  can  change  with  time. 


"When  a  plant  is  very  young  and 
all  it  has  is  its  tap  root,  that' s  the  root 
taking  up  water  and  nutrients  to 
nourish  the  plant,"  he  notes.  "But 
when  the  basal  roots  form,  the  tap 
root  generally  stops  taking  up  nutri- 


KEITH  WELLER 


The  white  root  extending  toward  the  lower 
right  corner  is  a  fourth  type  Icnown  as  a 
basal,  or  seminal,  root.  (K5169-19) 


ents.  Then,  when  the  laterals  arrive, 
they  take  over  from  the  basal  roots. 

"The  laterals  are  the  ones  that 
finally  do  the  really  important 
exploring  and  absorbing,"  he  contin- 
ues. "The  tap  root,  basal,  and  adventi- 
tious roots  simply  provide  the  central 
plumbing  through  which  nutrients 
and  water  move  in  the  plant." 

In  direct  contrast  to  the  common 
conception  of  the  tap  root,  that 
particular  root  is  not  especially 
efficient  at  taking  up  either  water  or 
nutrients,  Zobel  says. 

"But  it  doesn't  have  to  be,"  he 
adds.  "It's  really  involved  in  nutrient 
and  water  uptake  only  in  the  very 
early  stages  of  the  plant's  growth, 


and  at  that  time  the  plant  seedling  is 
so  small  it  doesn't  need  very  much." 

Instead,  as  plants  grow,  it  is  often 
the  basal  roots  that  probe  ever  deeper 
into  the  soil  in  search  of  more  water. 

"A  real  difference  between  mono- 
cots  and  dicots  is  the  ability  of  the 
roots  to  get  larger  and  increase  the 
volume  of  water  they  can  carry  as  a 
plant  gets  older,"  says  Zobel. 

"In  monocot  plants,  the  roots  don't 
do  that;  they  just  put  out  new  and 
larger  adventitious  roots.  But  the 
basal  roots  in  a  dicot  grow  thicker 
and  thicker,  to  allow  more  water  to 
be  taken  out  of  the  soil." 

Zobel  says  aU  plants  have  the 
potential  to  produce  all  four  root  types: 
tap,  lateral,  adventitious,  and  basal. 

"However,  at  any  given  time  you 
may  not  find  all  four  on  a  specific 
plant,"  he  adds.  "Many  dicots  don't 
show  adventitious  roots  all  the  time. 

New  Roots  to  the  Rescue! 

"Occasionally,  when  they're  under 
extreme  stress,  such  as  drought,  a  dicot 
will  grow  adventitious  roots.  If,  for 
example,  you  deUberately  kill  a  dicot' s 
basal  roots  and  tap  root,  you  can 
usually  get  that  plant  to  grow  adventi- 
tious roots." 

This  ability  of  plants  to  respond 
quickly  to  stress  with  a  new  array  of 
roots  has  been  demonstrated  in 
Zobel' s  experiments  at  ARS'  U.S. 
Plant,  Soil,  and  Nutrition  Laboratory 
at  Ithaca. 

"We  use  a  system  called  aeropon- 
ics  where  you  hang  plant  roots  in  a 
fog,"  he  explains.  "By  changing  the 
density  of  the  fog,  you  can  make  the 
plants  'think'  they're  in  a  drought 
and  then  relieve  the  'drought'  and  see 
what  happens.  We've  done  this  with 
com,  tomatoes,  and  soybeans. 

"In  our  soybean  work,  we  reduced 
the  amount  of  water  in  the  fog  for 
about  2  days  and  then  increased  it. 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


11 


Within  1 2  to  24  hours,  the  soybean 
plants  grew  new  adventitious  roots  a 
couple  of  inches  long,  to  get  every  bit 
of  water  available.  This  is  the  first 
time  this  has  been  seen  under  artifi- 
cial conditions." 

Lateral  roots,  responsible  for 
acquiring  the  lion's  share  of  water 
and  nutrients  from  the  soil,  are  simply 
branches  sprouting  from  other  roots, 
Zobel  notes. 

"In  soybeans,  if  the  top  layer  of  soil 
dries  out,  the  laterals  are  so  small  that 
they  dry  up,  too,"  he  says.  "But  the 
basal  roots  don't;  they're  the  emergen- 
cy back-up  system.  Then  when  the  soil 
is  wet  again,  the  plant  puts  out  new 
laterals  from  the  basal  roots." 

Plant  roots  are  strongly  affected  by 
the  environment  in  other  ways  as 
well.  For  example,  if  carbon  dioxide 
concentrations  are  higher  than  0.5  to 
2  percent  in  the  soil's  "plow  layer," 
the  CO,  stimulates  the  plant's  roots  to 
grow  outward  rather  than  downward, 
leaving  a  vacant  region  directly 
beneath  the  plant,  Zobel  says. 

"The  final  form  of  a  root  system 
depends  as  much  on  the  environment 
in  the  soil  as  it  does  on  root  types," 
he  notes.  "Temperature,  gases,  soil 
structure,  soil  chemistry,  and  micro- 
organisms in  the  soil  all  control  the 
rate  and  pattern  of  root  development. 

"For  example,  how  deep  roots  will 
go  into  the  soil  can  be  greatly  modified 
by  soil  physical  conditions,  such  as 
compaction  or  presence  of  a  soil  pan — 
a  layer  of  dense  soil  below  the  surface 
that's  too  difficult  for  the  roots  to 
penetrate.  This  can  make  rooting 
patterns  differ  across  a  single  field." 

Nutrient  Uptake  Secrets 

Zobel  and  ARS  plant  physiologist 
Leon  V.  Kochian  have  been  studying 
the  ways  in  which  plant  roots  take  up 
soil  elements  such  as  potassium  and 
nitrate. 


Kochian  has  already  shown  that 
when  soils  contain  excessive  alumi- 
num, a  major  obstacle  to  crop 
growth,  the  harmful  effect  of  the 
aluminum  on  the  plant  hinges  on 
whether  aluminum  comes  in  contact 
with  the  root  tip  or  elsewhere  on  the 
plant  root.  [See  "Understanding 
Aluminum  Toxicity  in  Plants," 
Agricultural  Research,  November 
1992,  p.  23.] 


KEITH  WELLER 


Plant  geneticist  Richard  Zobel  checks  the 
root  systems  of  stressed  corn  plants  to 
determine  the  impact  on  root  grow  th  and 
development.  (K5 170-9) 


In  studies  at  the  Ithaca  lab,  Zobel, 
Kochian,  and  research  assistant  T.G. 
Toulcmonde  used  microeleclrodes  to 
check  tomato  plant  roots'  ability  to 
take  up  potassium  and  nitrate. 

They  found  that  uptake  rates  of 
potassium  were  similar  for  7-day-old 
tap  roots  and  7-day-old  basal  roots  at 
a  point  4  centimeters  from  the  tip. 


But  at  the  root  tip  itself,  the  basal 
roots  took  up  significantly  more 
potassium  than  did  the  tap  roots, 
Zobel  says. 

"Nitrate  uptake  was  different, 
though,"  Zobel  notes.  "As  far  as  2 
centimeters  from  the  root  tip,  nitrate 
uptake  by  tap  roots  increased  fairly 
steadily  in  plants  that  were  1  and  2 
weeks  old.  But  at  3  weeks  and  older, 
the  tap  root's  nitrate  uptake  dropped 
off  dramatically  rather  than  remain- 
ing constant  with  distance  as  was 
widely  believed." 

Basal  roots  showed  a  similar 
pattern  of  nitrate  uptake,  but  at  much 
lower  levels,  he  adds. 

"For  the  last  150  years,  scientists 
have  thought  they  knew  what  a  root 
is,  how  and  why  it  develops,  what  it 
does,  and  how  and  why  it  does  it."' 
Zobel  says.  "It's  becoming  increas- 
ingly apparent  that  for  most  plant 
species  and  growing  conditions — 
including  greenhouse  conditions  and 
hydroponics — we  don't  know  the 
answers  to  these  questions  after  all. 

"There  are  very  practical  applica- 
tions for  this  information.  For 
example,  maybe  we  could  dex  elop  a 
soybean  plant  with  an  especially 
strong  tap  root.  In  the  Southeast, 
there  are  compacted  areas  of  the  soil 
where  roots  can't  penetrate.  A 
soybean  with  a  stronger  tap  root 
could  push  on  down  to  w  here  the 
water  may  be. 

"I  suspect  that  if  we  keep  studying 
roots,  we  can  someday  manipulate 
them  for  improved  crop  grow  th." — 
By  Sandy  Miller  Hays,  ARS. 

Richard  \V.  Zobel  and  other 
scientists  mentioned  are  at  the  U.S. 
Plant.  Soil,  and  Nutrition  Laborato- 
ry. Tower  Road.  Ithaca.  NY  14853. 
Phone  (607)  255-4573,  fa.\  number 
(607)255-8615.  ♦ 


12 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


Subterranean  Fixation 

Roots'  Role  in  the  Soil  Nitrogen  Cycle 


For  years,  farmers  have  known 
the  benefits  of  planting  com 
after  alfalfa  and  soybeans. 
These  two  leguminous  crops  are  well 
known  for  their  abiht}'  to  supply 
nitrogen  from  the  air  for  their  own 
growth  and  to  enhance  soil  fertihty  for 
succeeding  crops. 

Now,  an  ARS  soil  scientist  in  St. 
Paul,  Minnesota,  is  getting  to  the 
bottom  of  how  alfalfa  transfers  nitro- 
gen to  the  soil  by  viewing  the  under- 
ground death  and  decay  of  roots. 

"Most  knowledge  of  how  roots 
affect  plant  growth  and  health  has 
been  inferred  by  studying  plants 
above  ground,'"  says  Michael  P. 
Russelle  of  the  ARS  Plant  Science 
Research  Unit.  "However,  to  really 
understand  nutrient  uptake  and 
cycling  by  plants,  we  need  to  know 
more  about  root  srowth  and  death." 

An  acre  of  alfalfa  is  laced  with  about 
13,000  mUes  of  roots  in  the  top  6 
inches  of  soil  and  many  more  thou- 
sands below  that.  The  development  of 
small  video  cameras  has  enabled 
Russelle  and  Universit}'  of  Minnesota 
agronomist  Markus  Dubach  to  observ  e 
these  root  mazes  through  clear  plastic 
tubes  buried  in  the  soil. 

In  the  summer  of  1991,  they  took  a 
miniaturized  video  camera  into  the 
field  and  monitored  how  many  alfalfa 
roots  died  during  a  gi"owing  season. 
Analysis  of  time-lapse  sequences  of 
those  videos  shows  that  64  percent  of 
the  fme  roots  at  4  inches  and  50  percent 
of  the  fme  roots  at  8  inches  decom- 
posed as  the  alfalfa  grew. 

"Plants  lose  small  roots  during 
growth,  just  like  they  lose  leaves,  and 
then  replace  them  with  new  ones,"  says 
RusseUe.  Decomposing  roots  are  a 
source  of  nitrogen  that  can  contribute 
to  a  more  fertile  soil.  The  challenge  for 
Russelle  and  Dubach  is  to  fmd  out  how 
much  nitrogen  is  contributed  by  dead 
alfalfa  roots. 

But  two  major  problems  have  stood 
in  their  way.  The  first  was  that  no  one 


knew  how  much  nitrogen  these  fme 
roots  contained. 

So  Russelle  and  Dubach  grew 
alfalfa  in  root  observ^ation  boxes  to 
learn  the  age  and  condition  of  many 
roots.  Later,  they  surgically  removed 
the  roots  from  the  soil  and  measured 
their  nitrogen  content. 

They  calculated  that  if  2,000  rrdles 
of  fme  roots  decomposed,  about  1 
pound  of  nitrogen  from  the  au'  would 
be  transferred  to  the  soil. 

The  next  problem  was  that  no  one 
knew  the  lifespan  of  fine  alfalfa  roots, 
These  fme  roots — often  less  than  one 
sixty-fourth  of  an  inch  in  diameter — 


MARKUS  DUBACH 


Alfalfa  plants  lose  small  roots  during 
gro^^th,  just  like  they  lose  leaves,  and  then 
replace  them  with  new  ones.  Decomposing 
root  (left)  contributes  nitrogen  to  the  soil. 
(K5087-1) 


could  be  seen  with  the  miniaturized 
camera.  The  camera  magnifies  a 
section  of  soil  one-half  by  two-thirds 
of  an  inch  in  size  and  projects  an 
image  on  a  television  monitor.  In  the 
upper  8  inches  of  soil,  these  fine  roots 
have  a  hfespan  of  less  than  2  months 
during  the  summer. 

The  story  of  fine  roots  dying  and 
decaying  in  a  field  is  just  the  small 
picture.  The  big  picture  involves 


nitrogen  recycling  throughout  crop- 
lands in  the  Com  Belt. 

The  nitrogen  cycle  goes  like  this: 
Alfalfa  is  planted  as  a  forage  for 
animals.  WTiile  the  alfalfa  grows, 
bacteria  lixing  in  nodules  on  the  roots 
capture  nitrogen  from  the  air.  The  soil 
inherits  the  valuable  nitrogen  left 
behind  as  roots  die  and  after  the  alfalfa 
stand  is  plowed  under  in  preparation  for 
the  next  crop. 

After  han'est.  the  alfalfa  is  fed  to 
animals  as  hay  or  silage.  While  some  of 
the  nitrogen  is  converted  to  meat  and 
milk,  most — about  70  percent — ^is 
excreted  as  manure.  Most  of  the  manure 
nitrogen  can  be  returned  to  the  soil, 
thereby  completing  the  nitrogen  cycle. 

Alfalfa — the  most  populai'  daiiy  for- 
age in  the  United  States — ^is  grown  on 
26  miUion  acres.  More  than  10  milhon 
acres  are  grown  in  the  eisht  states  of  the 
eastern  part  of  the  Com  Belt — Illinois, 
Indiana.  Io\\  a.  Michigan.  Minnesota. 
Missouri,  Ohio,  and  Wisconsin. 

"This  alfalfa  acreage  adds  more  than 
1  million  tons  of  nitrogen  to  farms  in 
the  region  ever}'  year  through  nitrogen 
fixation."  says  Russelle.  Russelle  and 
Todd  A.  Peterson,  an  ARS  research 
associate,  have  saidied  alfalfa's  impact 
on  the  regional  nitrogen  cycle. 

On  the  a\'erage,  farmers  here  could 
cut  fertilizer  nitrogen  use  b}'  14  percent, 
without  reducing  com  }ields.  and  save 
about  SI 00  million  a  yeai". 

"It's  important  for  fanners  to  recog- 
nize this  nitrogen  source  and  avoid 
over-apphcation  of  fertihzer  nitrogen," 
says  Russelle.  "By  including  alfalfa  as 
part  of  their  cropping  system,  they  get  a 
valuable  crop  and  free  nitrogen  be- 
sides."— By  Linda  Cooke,  ARS. 

Michael  P.  RusseUe  is  in  the  USDA- 
ARS  U.S.  Dairy  Forage  Research  Cen- 
ter and  Plant  Science  Research  Unit, 
Depaitinent  of  Soil  Science,  439  Bor- 
laiig  Hall,  Universit}-  of  Minnesota,  St. 
Paul,  MN  55108-6028.  Phone  (612) 
625-  8145,  fax  (612 )  625-2208.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


13 


SCOTT  BAUER 


Plant  pathologist  Ray  McGuire  examines  cultures  of  Candida  guilliermondii  yeast  to  be  used 
on  stored  grapefruit  to  prevent  green  mold.  (K5162-6) 


Fighting  Fruit  Decay 
Nature's  Way 


Ah!  Juicy,  tart-sweet  grape- 
fruit— perfect  at  breakfast  or 
at  any  other  time  of  the  day. 
But  grapefruit,  like  many  other  tasty 
fruits,  is  not  without  its  problems.  And 
sometimes  the  solution  to  one  problem 
is  the  cause  of  another. 

For  example,  federal  regulations 
require  Florida  citrus  shippers  to 
certify  that  fruit  is  free  of  fruit  tlies  that 
could  perhaps  hitchhike  a  ride  to  other 
citrus  areas  and  damage  crops.  But 
some  of  the  special  treatments  devised 
to  protect  citrus  produced  in  IVuil-lly- 
in  tested  areas  leave  the  IVuil  more 
vulnerable  to  disease-causing  mi- 
crobes. [See  box.] 

One  new  treatment  that  is  veiy 
effective  against  fruit  Hies — heat — 
kills  99  percent  of  all  microorganisms. 


including  beneficial  ones,  present  on 
fruit  surfaces.  But  during  storage,  heat- 
treated  fruit  can  become  reinoculated 
with  pathogenic  microorganisms, 
which  then  multiply,  unhindered  by 
competition  from  any  beneficial  ones. 

Now,  Raymond  G.  McGuire.  a  plant 
pathologist  at  the  ARS  Subtropical 
Horticulture  Reseai'ch  Station  in 
Miami,  Florida,  has  found  that  adding  a 
natural  yeast,  Candida  guillieniioiulii, 
to  fruit  coatings  fights  mold  organisms 
and  extends  shelf  life  for  up  to  2 
months.  Most  citrus  is  waxed  at  the 
packinghouse  to  prevent  moisture  loss 
during  shipment  and  storage. 

Grapefruit  are  vulnerable  to  a 
species  of  PeniciHiiiiu  that  causes  green 
moid  to  cover  the  surface  ol  tlie  fruit. 
This  mold  thrives  on  nutrients  taken 


Treating  for  Fruit  Flies 

Plant  pathologist  Raymond  G. 
McGuire  says  that  because  the  Carib- 
bean fruit  fly,  Anastrepha  siispensa,  is 
a  pest  of  Florida  grapefruit,  consumers 
in  Arizona,  California,  Hawaii,  Texas, 
and  Japan  could  have  a  real  problem 
getting  the  fruit. 

Since  these  and  other  citrus-growing 
areas  don't  want  to  import  the  caribfly. 
citrus  shipments  from  fly-infested 
zones  in  Florida  must  be  treated  to 
ensure  the  fruit  is  fly-free  before  its 
entry  is  allowed.  Cold  storage  and 
methyl  bromide  fumigation  are 
currently  approved  quarantine  treat- 
ments that  kill  immature  fruit  flies  in 
grapefruit. 

"But  both  of  these  methods  have 
drawbacks,  including  costs  and  possi- 
ble environmental  hazards'"  explains 
McGuire.  'That's  why  ARS  scientists 
have  been  experimenting  for  several 
years  with  new  treatments  using  hot 
water,  vapor  heat,  and  forced  hot  air." 

Fast  and  effective  for  controlling 
fruit  flies,  these  new  methods  are  being 
invesdgated  as  quai-antine  treatments. 
But  heat  treatments  also  create  a 
problem  because  they  may  make  fmit 
more  susceptible  to  decay  during 
storage. 

Adding  a  beneficial  yeast  to  fruit 
coating  applied  at  the  packinghouse 
may  be  an  answer  to  this  problem. 


SCOTT  BAUER 


Healthy  grapefruit  (left)  was  coated  with 
wax  containing  the  biological  control 
yeast.  An  untreated  fruit  stored  the  same 
length  of  time  has  decayed.  (K5159-19) 


14 


Agriciiliuial  Research/August  1993 


Protective  Yeast  Is  Patented 

Discovered  on  lemons  and 
patented  by  Charles  L.  Wilson, 
ARS  plant  pathologist  at  Kear- 
neysville,  West  Virginia,  Candi- 
da guilliermondii  is  is  pending 
approval  by  the  U.S.  Environ- 
mental Protection  Agency  and  is 
Ucensed  for  commercial  produc- 
tion by  Ecogen,  Lie,  of  Lang- 
home,  Pennsylvania. 

The  fruit  coating  that  Ray- 
mond G.  McGuire  is  using  in  his 
research  was  developed  and 
patented  by  another  ARS  scien- 
tist, Myma  Nisperos-Carriedo,  a 
chemist  at  Winter  Haven,  Florida. 
Called  Nature  Seal,  the  coating  is 
now  commercially  produced  by 
Seald-Sweet  Growers,  Inc.,  in 
Vero  Beach,  Florida. 


from  the  fruit's  surface.  But  the  yeast 
used  by  McGuire  apparently  steals 
these  nutrients  and  uses  them  to 
multiply  more  quickly  than  the  mold. 
And  the  coating  in  which  the  yeast  is 
mixed  may  also  provide  useful 
nutrients  for  its  growth. 

The  yeast  survives  well  over 
periods  of  adversity.  This,  plus  its 
ability  to  use  the  large  variety  of 
carbohydrates  and  organic  acids 
available  on  the  surface  of  grapefruit, 
make  the  yeast  an  ideal  candidate  for 
biocontrol  of  the  mold,  McGuire  says. 
It  is  not  noticeable  on  treated  fruit. 

According  to  McGuire,  antago- 
nists have  been  tested  on  fruit 
surfaces  by  artificially  placing 
massive  numbers  of  organisms 
directly  on  wounded  areas  of  fruit. 
But  this  would  not  be  very  practical 
in  reality.  "To  be  commercially 
acceptable,  application  of  a  biocon- 
trol agent  must  be  compatible  with 
packinghouse  operations,"  he  says. 


Since  packinghouses  already  wax 
citrus  fruit,  this  is  the  ideal  time  to 
apply  a  biocontrol  agent.  The  wax,  or 
coating,  would  not  only  bind  the 
yeast  to  the  fruit,  but  could  also  be 
formulated  to  promote  its  growth  on 
the  fruit  surface. 

To  study  the  feasibility  of  using 
the  yeast  commercially  in  a  fruit 
coating,  McGuire  is  working  with 
Craig  Campbell,  director  of  research 
and  development  for  J.R.  Brooks  and 
Son,  located  in  Homestead,  Florida. 
This  company,  one  of  the  largest 
shippers  of  tropical  fruits  and 
vegetables  in  the  United  States,  is 
back  in  full  swing  after  being  hard 
hit  by  Hurricane  Andrew  last  year. — 
By  Doris  Stanley,  ARS. 

Raymond  G.  McGuire  is  at  the 
USDA-ARS  Subtropical  Horticulture 
Research  Station,  13601  Old  Cutler 
Road,  Miami,  FL  33158.  Phone 
(305)  238-9321,  fax  number  (305) 
238-9330.  ♦ 


SCOTT  BAUER 


After  washing,  fruit  receives  a  spray  of  wax 
and  a  yeast  that  biologically  prevents  mold 
development.  (K5163-8) 


SCOTT  BAUER 


Grapefruit  emerging  from  a  commercial  packing  line  washer  undergoes  inspection  by  plant 
pathologist  Ray  McGuire  (left)  and  technician  Everton  Bahter.  (K5158-12) 


Agricultural  Research/ August  1993 


15 


Sugarbeets 

Controlling  Pests  in  the  Next  Century 


eorge  Washington  loved  to 
experiment  in  liis  garden 
and  fields  at  Mount  Vernon. 
Some  of  the  crops  that  struck  him  as 
novel  and  innovative  in  the  1790's 
are  standard  today  on  the  American 
agricultural  scene — alfalfa,  for 
example,  and  cultivated  pecans. 
Others,  such  as  the  forage  legume 
called  sainfoin,  are  still  seeking  a 
toehold  in  U.S.  agriculture. 

One  current  crop  that  would  have 
been  new  to  Washington's  America  is 
the  sugarbeet,  from  which  crystalline 
sugar  is  made.  Introduced  in  the  late 
1700's,  sugarbeets  gradually  gained 
acceptance  until  they  now  provide 
slightly  over  half  of  the  sugar  pro- 
duced in  this  country. 

In  the  1930's,  their  rising  signifi- 
cance caused  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture  plant  geneticist  George 
H.  Coons  to  go  plant  exploring. 
During  his  travels  through  seven 
European  countries,  he  looked  for 
sugarbeets  and  their  wild  relatives 
that  might  resist  a  costly  leaf  spot 


BRUCE  FRITZ 


Plant  geneticist  Garry  Smith  examines  a 
sugarbeet  root  maggot  parasitized  by 
beneficial  Steiiiernema  nematodes.  (K5175-1 ) 


disease  caused  by  the  fungus  Cer- 
cospora  beticola. 

Coons'  scientific  harvest  was, 
unfortunately,  a  lean  one. 

After  carefully  crossbreeding  wild 
plants  and  cultivated  sugarbeet 
varieties,  he  found  little  or  no  resis- 
tance in  the  hybrid  offspring.  After- 
ward, he  wrote  with  regret  that  his 
"tests  were  given  up,  probably  too 
soon."  In  this,  he  turned  out  to  be 
right.  Years  later,  colleagues  found 
the  resistance  he  had  searched  for  in 
the  materials  he'd  gathered. 

William  M.  Bugbee,  a  plant 
pathologist  with  USDA's  Agricult- 
ural Research  Service,  took  the  fight 
against  sugarbeet  diseases  a  few  steps 
closer  to  victory  when  he  isolated  and 
identified  certain  bacteria  from  inside 
and  around  the  roots  of  sugarbeets  in 
the  early  1970's.  These  bacteria  did 
not  cause  disease,  Bugbee  noted. 

But  it  wasn't  until  the  late  1980's 
that  ARS  scientists  at  Fargo,  North 
Dakota,  began  to  consider  a  use  for 
these  seemingly  meaningless  bacte- 
ria— specifically,  to  serve  as  work- 
horses for  biological  control  of 
sugarbeet  pests. 

The  pest  at  the  top  of  plant  geneti- 
cist Garry  A.  Smith's  "most  wanted" 
list  was  the  sugarbeet  root  maggot, 
which  was  emerging  as  a  serious 
problem  in  North  Dakota  and  Minne- 
sota farms  of  the  Red  River  Valley. 

The  maggot  had  shown  itself 
capable  of  reducing  yields  by  10  to 
50  percent  by  feeding  on  the  surface 
of  tap  and  lateral  roots.  The  larvae 
consume  a  mixture  of  plant  Juices  and 
bacteria  and  form  slime  tunnels  along 
the  roots. 

But  chemical  insecticides  seemed 
only  a  short-term  solution.  Smith 
noted,  since  soil  was  sometimes  too 
dry  for  the  insecticides  to  work  well 
and  they  appeared  to  be  losing  their 
effectiveness. 


So,  with  partial  funding  from  the 
Beet  Sugar  Development  Foundation 
and  increased  federal  funding,  the 
Fargo  lab  embarked  on  a  renewed 
search  for  natural  weapons  against 
the  sugarbeet  root  maggot. 

Smith  envisioned  genetically 
engineering  Bugbee' s  ubiquitous 
bacteria  to  produce  a  fatal  Bacillus 
thuringiensis  (Bt)  toxin  and  then 
lying  in  wait  for  the  voracious 
sugarbeet  root  maggot. 

Derived  from  a  common  bacteri- 
um and  used  against  crop  pests  for 
more  than  30  years,  Bt  toxin  is 
harmless  to  humans  and  livestock. 

Smith  says  that  another  biocontrol 
route — genetically  engineering  a 
sugarbeet  variety  to  repel  or  resist 
the  pest — would  take  more  time, 
which  the  sugarbeet  industry  could 
ill  afford. 

Alternative  Biological  Strategies 

"In  our  long-range  view,  we 
embrace  the  idea  of  genetically 
engineering  sugarbeet  plants  to  resist 
pests,"  Smith  says. 

One  method  that  might  help  w  ith 
this  strategy  is  if  a  strain  oi  Agrobac- 
teriiim  tiimefaciens  can  be  found  that 
infects  sugarbeets.  The  idea  is  to  use 
the  microbe  to  ferry  DNA  material 
from  Bt  into  the  hereditary  makeup 
of  the  sugarbeet  plant.  So  far.  molec- 
ular biologist  Chris  A.  Wozniak  has 
discovered  several  natural  strains  in 
the  soil  near  sugarbeets.  but  none  that 
actually  infect  sugarbeets. 

The  Fargo  scientists  are  trying  to 
identify  the  Bt  strains  that  produce 
the  most  potent  toxins  against  the 
maggot,  with  the  hope  of  applying 
the  bacterium  directly  to  plants 
without  first  engineering  the  toxin 
gene.  This  would  allow  them  to  pit 
Bt  directly  against  the  maggots. 

If  that  doesn't  work,  perhaps  a 
bacterium  such  as  Xanthomomis 


16 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


beet's  microbe-rich  ecosystem  could 
be  redesigned  to  make  Bt  toxin. 

Wozniak  and  ARS  plant  physiolo- 
gist John  D.  Eide  have  identified 
about  500  bacteria  from  among  2,000 
bacteria  samples  collected  from  the 
sugarbeet  root  maggot's  midgut  and 
slime  tunnels  and  from  the  surface  of 
sugarbeet  roots. 

Among  biological  samples  from 
the  maggot-infested  cropland  in  Min- 
nesota, North  Dakota,  Montana,  Wy- 
oming, and  Nebraska,  the  researchers 
found  Xm  everywhere,  making  the 
bacterium  a  likely  candidate  for  their 
genetic  engineering  work. 

The  ubiquity  of  Xm  makes  the 
scientists  suspect  the  microbe  might 
be  needed  for  the  maggot  to  thrive. 
Indeed,  after  rearing  some  germ-free 
maggots  from  disinfected  eggs,  the 
researchers  found  none  capable  of 
larval  development  unless  Xin  was 
added  to  their  diet. 

By  genetically  engineering  Xm  to 
make  Bt  toxin,  "we  hope  to  create  a 
situation  in  which  the  sugarbeet  root 
maggot  can't  live  with  the  microbe 
and  can't  live  without  it,"  says 
Wozniak. 

Serendipitous  Nematode  Study 

It  came  about  in  the  fall  of  1992, 
when  Smith  and  ARS  plant  patholo- 
gist David  T.  Kaplan  of  Orlando, 
Florida,  found  themselves  at  the  same 
location  on  temporary  assignments. 

As  they  sat  at  dinner  one  evening, 
they  talked  about  the  work  they  did 
back  home.  Their  discussion  led  to  a 
question:  Could  a  microscopic 
nematode  known  to  Kaplan  that  had 
shown  promise  against  a  citrus  pest 
also  be  put  to  work  in  northern 
sugarbeet  fields? 

The  prospect  was  appealing 
because  the  nematodes  in  question, 
from  the  genus  Steinemema,  kill  only 


m:. 


Slightly  over  half  of  U.S. -produced  sugar  comes  from  sugarbeets. 


BRUCE  FRITZ 


Technician  Gary  Nielsen  (foreground) 
and  plant  pathologist  William  Bugbee 
collect  axillary  buds  from  Rhizoctonia- 
resistant  plants  with  high  levels  of  a 
protein  that  inhibits  cell  destruction  by 
the  enzyme  pectin  lyase.  (K5174-1) 


insects,  leaving  plants  and  warm- 
blooded animals  untouched. 

Steinemema  nematodes  are  like  a 
"gift  that  keeps  on  giving,"  says 
Wozniak.  They  enter  natural  open- 
ings in  their  host,  then  release 
bacteria  from  their  intestines  that  get 
into  the  maggot's  blood  and  produce 
deadly  toxic  waste  products. 

These  bacteria  multiply  in  the 
maggot  cadavers  and  serve  as  food  to 
nourish  the  nematodes  as  they 
prepare  to  reproduce.  If  a  nematode 
harbors  a  potent  species  of  these 
bacteria,  it  typically  produces 
thousands  of  offspring. 

Smith,  Kaplan,  and  their  col- 
leagues set  up  laboratory  studies  at 
Orlando  and  obtained  permits  to 
allow  interstate  transport  of  the 
insects  and  nematodes  and  to  con- 
duct field  studies  at  Fargo.  The  U.S. 
Environmental  Protection  Agency 
had  earlier  determined  that  Steiner- 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


17 


DEVON  DONEY 


USDA  plant  explorers  find  potentially  valuable  germpiasm  in  many  locations,  such  as  these 
wild  beets  growing  in  Brittany,  France. 


nema  nematodes,  with  their  associat- 
ed bacteria,  are  exempt  from  registra- 
tion requirements  under  the  Federal 
Insecticide,  Fungicide,  and  Rodenti- 
cide  Act. 

In  preliminary  North  Dakota  field 
tests,  all  of  six  Steinernema  strains — 
representing  the  carpocapsae,  feltiae, 
and  glaseri  species — proved  capable 
of  entering  the  sugarbeet  root  maggot 
and  reproducing  as  their  hosts  are 
about  to  pupate. 

Besides  learning  that  sugarbeet 
root  maggots  are  infected  in  the 
larval  stage  by  Steinernema,  re- 
searchers have  discovered  that  the 
adult  or  fly  stage  can  be  infected 
within  2  hours  by  these  nematodes 
and  die  within  a  day.  This  year,  they 
are  testing  fly  traps  baited  with  an 
attractant  containing  nematodes,  to 
determine  the  rate  of  adult  infection 
in  the  field. 

But  researchers  aren't  yet  certain 
how  well  the  nematodes  suppress  the 
maggots.  Even  in  plots  without  the 
beneficial  nematodes,  sugarbeets 
grew  too  well  to  visibly  suffer  much 
maggot  damage. 

So  the  studies  have  been  refined  to 
include  more  field  sites  and  nema- 
tode applications  at  different  stages 
of  crop  growth. 

"Our  outlook  for  success  is  good," 
Smith  says.  "Although  nematodes 
may  not  become  the  complete 
answer,  they  could  help  fill  a  big 
control  gap  if  available  insecticides 
should  ever  be  taken  off  the  market." 

Also,  the  nematodes  might  be 
relatively  inexpensive — perhaps  less 
than  10  cents  per  million,  or  about 
$30  for  enough  to  treat  an  acre.  A 
large  ethanol-producing  company  is 
licensed  to  rear  them  in  fermentation 
tanks.  They  are  being  marketed 
through  garden  supply  firms. 

"Wc  don't  know  yet  whether 
farmers  would  need  to  apply  nema- 
todes each  year,  or  if  sufficient 


numbers  of  infective  juveniles  would 
overwinter,"  Smith  says. 

Breeding  in  Plant  Resistance 

Can  the  sugarbeet  root  maggot 
problem  also  be  curtailed  by  breeding 
beets  with  insect  resistance?  In 
research  plots  near  St.  Thomas,  North 
Dakota,  that  are  normally  heavily 
infested,  ARS  plant  geneticist  Larry 
G.  Campbell  has  developed  breeding 
plant  populations  with  resistance 
comparable  to  that  achieved  in  plots 
treated  with  chemical  insecticides. 

But  because  the  beets  lack  yield 
potential  and  other  desired  qualities, 
and  because  genes  affecting  resistance 
may  be  widely  dispersed  in  the  plants' 
chromosomes,  Campbell  says  resis- 
tant sugarbeets  won't  soon  be  com- 
mercially developed. 

Campbell  is  evaluating  sugarbeet 
root  maggot  resistance  in  17  wild 
sugarbeets  initially  screened  by 
entomologist  Albin  "Andy"  W. 


Anderson  of  North  Dakota  State 
University  from  about  190  accessions 
obtained  from  the  USDA-ARS  Plant 
Introduction  Station  in  Ames,  Iowa. 

Other  conventional  breeding  work 
to  develop  beets  resistant  to  Cer- 
cospora  leaf  spot  is  under  way,  says 
Smith,  including  some  that  plant 
explorer  Coons  had  collected. 

Cercospora  now  infects  about  half 
of  all  U.S.  sugarbeet  acreage,  causing 
millions  of  dollars  worth  of  losses 
each  year. 

Recently,  Smith  and  Hide  found 
high  levels  of  the  enzyme  chiiinasc  in 
sugarbeets  that  ha\e  a  natural  ability 
to  withstand  Cercospora.  The)  are 
now  preparing  antibodies  to  chitinase 
that  researchers  may  use  in  screening 
sugarbeet  seedlings  for  resistance 
with  a  test  known  as  ELISA  (en- 
zyme-linked immunosorbent  assay). 

It  is  expected  that  an  ELISA  test 
will  greatly  speed  up  the  search  for 
resistant  sugarbeets. 


18 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


GARRY  SMITH 


In  studies  to  control  sugarbeet  root  maggots,  plant  physiologist  John  Eide  applies  Bt 
solution. 


Often,  the  value  of  genetic  re- 
sources may  not  be  recognized  until 
decades  after  they  are  collected,  says 
ARS  plant  geneticist  Devon  L. 
Doney.  He  has  helped  plan  the  Third 
Biennial  Conference  of  the  World 
Beta  Network,  an  international  forum 
of  sugarbeet  geneticists  set  for 
August  4-6.  1993,  in  Fargo. 

Doney  points  to  a  devastating 
fungus-transmitted  virus  disease  of 
sugarbeets,  Rhizomania,  first  discov- 
ered in  the  United  States  in  1983. 

From  germplasm  collected  by 
Coons  in  his  plant  explorations  more 
than  50  years  ago,  ARS  plant  geneti- 
cist Robert  T.  Lewellen  and  col- 
leagues at  Salinas,  California, 
recently  developed  breeding  lines 
that  resist  Rhizomania,  along  with 
virus  yellows,  powdery  mildew,  and 
other  important  sugarbeet  diseases. 
Commercial  sugarbeet  varieties 


BRUCE  FRITZ 


Using  a  computerized  database,  plant 
physiologist  John  Eide  (foreground)  and 
molecular  biologist  Chris  Wozniak  identify 
bacteria  collected  from  sugarbeet  maggots 
and  from  around  sugarbeet  roots.  (K5173-1) 


derived  from  these  lines  may  be 
available  in  6  to  8  years. 

During  the  past  5  years.  Doney  and 
researchers  with  North  Dakota  and 
Texas  agricultural  experiment  sta- 
tions, Beet  Sugar  Development 
Foundation,  and  ARS  laboratories  in 
Fort  Collins.  Colorado,  and  Salinas, 
California,  have  evaluated  about  400 
accessions  from  the  collection  at 
Ames  for  traits  that  might  benefit  the 
sugarbeet  industry. 

Doney  also  breeds  exotic  germ- 
plasm  to  produce  more  sugar  and 
impart  hybrid  vigor.  He  hopes  to 
increase  genetic  diversity  of  sugar- 
beets  used  in  advanced  breeding 
programs. 

Diversity  of  genes  in  present-day 
commercial  hybrids  is  low,  Doney 
says.  Beet  sugar-processing  technolo- 
gy is  less  than  200  years  old,  and 
early  selective  breeding  was  narrowly 
focused  on  sugar  yield.  Before  then. 
Beta  species  were  cultivated  as  red 


garden  beets,  leafy  vegetable  beets, 
Swiss  chard,  and  fodder  beets. 

In  several  overseas  trips,  Doney 
has  explored  native  habitats  for  Beta 
germplasm.  searching  mostly  near 
the  Mediterranean  Sea.  but  also  in 
noithem  and  eastern  Europe. 

His  latest  expedition  was  to  Egypt 
in  1992,  to  find  out  whether  many 
wild  beets  were  left  in  Egypt's 
intensively  farmed  areas. 

He  reports.  "We  found  lots  of 
them  because  farmers  have  grown 
wild  beets  as  a  leafy  vegetable  for 
many  centuries  along  Middle  Egypt's 
Nile.  And  in  the  Nile  Delta,  where 
beets  are  regarded  as  weeds,  seeds 
have  been  dispersed  along  many 
canals  and  ditches." — By  Ben 
Hardin,  ARS. 

To  contact  scientists  mentioned  in 
this  article,  write  or  telephone  Ben 
Hardin,  1815  North  University  St., 
Peoria,  IL  61604.  Phone  (309)  681- 
6597,  fax  (309 )  681  -6690.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


19 


Defining  l\/iinerai  Needs  of  Pregnant  Cows 


Everyone  knows  the  recipes  by 
heart:  "snips  and  snails  and 
puppy-dogs'  tails"  for  boys, 
"sugar  and  spice  and  everything  nice" 
for  girls.  Now  William  A.  House  and 
Alan  W.  Bell  have  a  recipe  for  healthy 
dairy  calves,  too. 

House  is  a  research  animal  physiol- 
ogist at  ARS'  U.S.  Plant,  Soil,  and 
Nutrition  Laboratory  at  Ithaca,  New 
York.  He  and  animal  science  professor 
Bell  of  Cornell  University  teamed  up 
in  1992  to  produce  a  complete  profile 
of  fetal  mineral  content  for  dairy  cattle, 
including  a  look  at  how  the  proportion 
of  various  minerals  changes  as  the 
fetus  progresses  through  gestation. 

This  information  is  important  to 
cattle  producers  who  want  to  ensure 
that  they're  feeding  the  right  amounts 
of  minerals  to  pregnant  dairy  cows  to 
ensure  the  birth  of  healthy  calves. 

"For  example,  pregnant  cows 
absorb  about  45  percent  of  the  calcium 
in  their  diet,"  House  explains.  "The 
absorbed  calcium  is  used  by  the  cow 


to  maintain  her  own  body  and  to 
support  the  growth  of  the  fetus. 

"We  estimate  that  a  1,600-pound 
cow  needs  1 2  grams  of  calcium  per 
day  for  maintenance.  Also,  we  know 
that  the  fetus  needs  1 0  grams  of 
calcium  each  day  in  late  gestation. 
Since  the  dry  pregnant  cow  absorbs 
less  than  half  the  calcium  in  her  feed, 
she  needs  to  be  eating  about  50  grams 
of  calcium  per  day  to  meet  her  22-gram 
requirement." 

House  and  Bell  analyzed  the 
mineral  content  of  fetuses  taken  from 
19  pregnant  1,600-pound  Holstein 
cows  slaughtered  at  190  to  270  days 
after  conception.  The  gestation  period 
for  Holsteins  is  about  280  days. 

Before  House  and  Bell  began  their 
cooperative  study,  only  calcium  and 
phosphorus  content  of  the  dairy  fetus 
had  been  measured,  back  in  1950. 
More  complete  analyses  of  mineral 
content  had  been  completed  for  beef 
cattle,  pigs,  and  sheep,  according  to 
House. 


He  and  Bell  measured  not  only 
calcium  and  phosphorus  content  in  the 
dairy  fetus,  but  also  levels  of  potassi- 
um, sodium,  magnesium,  iron.  zinc, 
copper,  and  manganese. 

Measurements  took  into  account  the 
entire  "conceptus" — the  fetus  itself, 
plus  fetal  membranes,  fetal  fluids,  and 
placental  tissue. 

"At  day  200  of  gestation,  the  fetus 
is  depositing  about  2  grams  of  calcium 
and  1.3  grams  of  phosphorus  per  day," 
says  House.  "At  day  270,  the  calcium 
has  increased  to  about  10  grams  and 
the  phosphorus  to  nearly  5  grams." 

House  attributes  the  increase  in 
deposition  of  fetal  calcium  and 
phosphorus  during  late  pregnancy  to 
the  accelerated  rate  of  accumulation  of 
these  minerals  in  bone. 

Concentrations  of  magnesium  also 
increased  with  fetus  age.  House  notes, 
while  concentrations  of  potassium  and 
sodium  decreased. 

During  the  latter  stages  of  gestation, 
the  bovine  conceptus  each  day  accrues 
an  average  0.2  grams  of  magnesium, 
1 .0  grams  of  potassium.  1 .4  grams  of 
sodium,  18  milligrams  of  iron.  1 1.7 
milligrams  of  zinc.  1.6  milligrams  of 
copper,  and  0.3  milligrams  of  manga- 
nese. House  reports. 

"The  general  practice  among 
producers  is  to  manage  daiiy  cows  to 
"dry  otr — so  they're  putting  their 
energy  into  producing  a  fetus  rather 
than  producing  milk."  House  says. 
"The  nutritional  requirements  of  the 
dry  cow  haven't  gotten  a  lot  of 
attention  in  the  past. 

"Now  we  ha\  e  a  data  set  that  gi\  es 
us  a  better  understanding  of  mineral 
nutritional  requirements  of  daiiy  cows 
during  this  phase." — By  Sandy  Miller 
Hays^  ARS. 

William  A.  House  is  at  the  U.S. 
Plant,  Soil,  and  Nutrition  Lahoratoiy. 
Tower  Road,  Ithaca,  NY  14853.  Phone 
(607)  255-4502,  fa.\  number  (607) 
255-2459.  ♦ 


KEITH  WELLER 


ARS  animal  physiologist  William  House  (left)  and  animal  science  professor  Alan  Bell 
of  Cornell  University  display  a  2-vveek-old  Holstein  heifer  calf  born  from  a  cow  in  the 
nutrient  study.  (K5 177-1) 


20 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


Fighting  the 
Insect 
Enemy  in 
Somalia 

ARS  research  provides 
ammunition  against  malaria, 
other  diseases 


When  he  arrived  in  Somalia 
last  December.  Lt.  Arman- 
do Rosales  was  just  as 
concerned  about  buzzing  insects  as  he 
was  about  whistling  bullets. 

As  a  participant  in  the  Operation  Re- 
store Hope  mission  to  bring  food  to 
starving  Somahs,  Rosales  faced  an  ar- 
ray of  deadly  insects.  Li  Somaha,  mos- 
quitoes transmit  a  parasite  that  causes 
malaria,  a  disease  that  can  be  as  fatal  as 
a  warlord's  well-placed  bullet.  Ticks, 
flies,  and  other  insects  also  spread  dan- 
gerous diseases. 

As  a  medical  entomologist  with  the 
Armed  Forces  Pest  Management  Board 
in  Washington,  D.C..  Rosales  was  well 
aware  of  those  dangers  when  he  arrived 
in  Somaha  for  a  3-month  tour  with  a 
medical  team  assisting  an  engineering 
squadron. 

Within  minutes  after  landins  on 
Dec.  17,  Rosales  instructed  the  70  peo- 
ple in  the  squadron  to  spray  their  cloth- 
ing and  bed  mosquito  nets  with  per- 
methrin — an  insecticide — and  to  cover 
their  exposed  skin  with  a  cream  con- 
taining a  repellant  called  deet. 

"I  considered  those  to  be  the  num- 
ber-one defense  against  insect-borne 
disease,"  he  says.  "And,  to  my  knowl- 
edge, when  we  left  on  March  7,  there 
were  no  cases  in  our  squadron." 

That's  good  news  to  Carl  E.  Schreck 
and  feUow  Agricultural  Research  Ser- 
vice scientists  who  have  developed 
deet  and  permethrin  to  protect  soldiers. 
ARS  scientists  discovered  deet  in  the 
1950' s  and  began  developing  per- 
methrin in  the  1970's.  It's  also  good 
news  for  U.S.  forces  in  Somalia,  be- 
cause an  ARS  computer  model  pre- 


Permethrin-sprayed  clothing  protects  U.S.  soldiers  from  insects  in  Somalia. 


dieted  that  thousands  of  soldiers  w  ould 
ha\  e  gotten  malaria  \\  ithout  the  protec- 
tion that  deet  and  permethrin  gave. 

Schreck,  an  entomologist  with  the 
agency's  Medical  and  Veterinar}-  Ento- 
molog}'  Reseai"ch  Laboraton"  in 
Gaines\'ille.  Florida.  sa}'s  soldiers  now 
use  deet  cream  that  lasts  longer  than 
the  earher  hquid  form  that  sometimes 
irritated  the  skin.  The  cream  was  devel- 
oped in  the  late  1980's  under  an  ARS. 
mihtar}'.  and  pri\  ate-sector  project. 

"In  field  studies,  deet  cream  has 
been  effecti\-e  for  7  to  10  hours  under 
worst-case  conditions  in  the  Florida 
Everglades,  where  mosquitoes  and  oth- 
er insects  are  numerous."  Schreck  says. 

Campers  and  other  people  who  lo\  e 
the  insect-infested  outdoors  are  also 
benefitins  from  deet  in  commercial  in- 
sect  repellants.  Of  the  212  products  the 
U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
has  registered  for  this  purpose.  192 
contain  deet. 

Permethrin — a  synthetic  form  of  the 
natural  pyrethrum  insecticide — doesn't 
cause  irritation,  is  odorless,  resists 
breakdown  in  sunlight,  and  doesn't 
readily  come  out  when  clothes  are 
washed.  Soldiers  can  spray  it  on  their 
clothing,  netting,  and  tents,  or  it  can  be 
soaked  into  the  material.  "If  you're 
wearing  permethrin-treated  clothes, 
you're  a  walking  mosquito  IdUer," 
Schreck  says. 

A  division  of  the  Granitex'ille  Com- 
pany, a  South  Carolina  textile  mill,  has 
received  a  patent  to  make  a  tent  fabric 
coated  with  permethrin. 


The  deet  and  permethrin  protections 
appear  to  ha\'e  been  effectix  e — not 
onh'  in  Rosales'  squadron,  but  also 
among  U.S.  forces  overall.  As  of  mid- 
March,  there  were  onh*  47  confimied 
cases  of  malaria  among  U.S.  troops  in 
Somalia,  according  to  an  Army  Sur- 
geon General  report. 

"'Most  cases  were  because  people 
didn't  use  the  deet  cream  or  permethrin 
material  or  didn't  take  anti-malarial 
dmgs."  Rosales  says. 

The  xARS  computer  model  had  pre- 
dicted that  if  no  pre\  enti\'e  measures 
had  been  taken,  there  could  ha\'e  been 
as  many  as  3,000  cases  of  malaria 
among  16.000  troops  stationed  in 
Baidoa  and  more  than  7.000  cases  in 
Mogadishu  o\  er  a  60-day  period.  The 
malaria  simulation  model  (jSLALSIM), 
developed  by  agricultural  engineer 
Danel  G.  Haile  at  the  Gainesville  lab, 
predicts  how  many  cases  of  malaria 
can  be  expected  based  on  weather  pat- 
terns, conti'ol  measures,  personal  pro- 
tection, and  other  factors. 

MALSIM's  numbers  for  Somalia 
show  how  dangerous  it  could  be  for 
U.S.  ti'oops  there — if  not  for  deet  and 
permethrin.  "As  long  as  they  use  these 
properly.  the\'  shouldn't  ha\  e  a 
problem."  Schi-eck  says. — ^By  Sean 
Adams,  ARS. 

Carl  E.  Schreck  and  Danel  G.  Haile 
are  at  the  USDA-ARS  Medical  and 
Veterinary  Entomology  Research  Lab- 
oratory, 1600  SW  23rd  Drive,  Gaines- 
ville, EL  32604.  Phone  (904)  374- 
5900,  fax  number  (904)  374-5834.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/ August  1993 


21 


Berry  Delightful! 


Home  gardeners  and  commercial  strawberry  growers  can 
now  ask  for  two  ARS-developed  strawberry  varieties  by 
name  at  plant  nurseries  in  the  Pacific  Northwest.  The  juicy, 
bright  red  berries,  Redgem  and  Bountiful,  are  intended  for 
processing  into  preserves  or  adding  to  pies,  ice  cream, 
yogurt,  or  other  foods. 

Redgem  also  works  well  for  backyard  gardens  or  local 
fresh-market  sales,  says  plant  breeder  Francis  "Whitey" 
Lawrence,  recently  retired  from  ARS'  National  Clonal 
Germplasm  Repository  in  Corvallis,  Oregon. 

Lawrence  developed  the  berry  plants  and  put  them 
through  about  10  years  of  testing  in  cooperation  with  the 
agricultural  experiment  stations  of  Washington,  Oregon,  and 
Idaho.  He  says  the  berries  are  well-suited  for  those  states. 
The  region's  growers  produced  about  72  million  pounds  of 
strawberries,  worth  about  $26  inillion,  in  1992. 

Both  strawberry  varieties  bear  fruit 
in  June  and  have  several  qualities 
important  to  food  processing.  Unlike 
fruit  that  becomes  soft  and  squishy 
when  thawed,  Redgem  and  Bountiful 
berries  retain  much  of  their  original 
shape,  texture,  and  attractive  color 
after  being  frozen.  Both  did  well  in 
drip  tests:  To  see  if  they  would  lose 


USDA 


too  much  of  their  juice,  frozen  berries  were  placed  on  screens 
and  allowed  to  thaw. 

The  berries  are  easy  to  cap;  that  is,  their  stems  and  green, 
leaf-like  caps  are  easy  to  remove  from  the  ripened  fruit. 

Bountiful  is  a  good  candidate  for  mechanical  harvesting 
because  most  of  its  fruit  can  be  gathered  with  only  two 
harvests.  Typically,  commercial  strawberry  varieties  produce 
berries  that  ripen  at  different  times  and  so  require  three  or 
more  pickings. 

Most  Pacific  Northwest  strawberries  today  are  picked  by 
hand,  though  growers  are  interested  in  mechanizing  future 
harvests  to  cut  costs.  The  ultimate  in  efficient,  economical 
harvesting  would  be  a  plant  that  needs  only  one  harvest. 
"Bountiful  might  be  used  as  a  parent  of  the  ideal  one-harvest 
strawberry  of  the  future,"  says  Lawrence. 

The  berries  are  relatives  of  two  varieties  bred  primarily  for 
East  Coast  and  Midwest  growers  by 
ARS  berry  breeder  Gene  J.  Galletta  at 
Beltsville,  Maryland. — By  Marcia 
Wood,  ARS. 

Francis  J.  Lawrence  is  a  collabora- 
tor with  the  USDA-ARS  National 
Clonal  Gennplasm  Repositoiy,  33447 
Peoria  Road,  Con'allis,  OR  97333. 
Phone  (503)  750-8712,  faA- number 
(503)  750-8717.  ♦ 


Medflies  Prefer  Less-Acidic  Bait 

Luring  Mediterranean  fruit  flies  into  traps  can  be  en- 
hanced by  lowering  the  acidity  of  a  commercial  bait,  ARS 
researchers  report. 

Reducing  the  acidity  of  the  bait,  NuLure,  by  increasing 
the  pH  from  4.5  to  8.8  attracted  almost  twice  as  many 
female  flies  into  the  test  traps. 

Baited  traps  are  used  to  monitor  medfly  outbreaks  and  to 
capture  the  insects,  says  Robert  Heath,  a  chemist  at  the  ARS 
Insect  Attractants,  Behavior,  and  Basic  Biology  Research 
Laboratory  in  Gainesville,  Florida. 

Heath  says  lowering  the  bait's  acidity  affects  the  mixture 
of  chemicals  that  lure  medflies,  but  researchers  are  conduct- 
ing further  studies  to  confirm  that  preliniinai^  finding. 

California,  Florida,  and  other  citrus-producing  areas  have 
been  forced  to  spend  millions  to  eradicate  the  mcdtly  so  that 


fruit  can  be  exported  to  other  countries  that  want  to  keep 
medtlies  out. 

During  the  medtly  outbreak  in  the  summer  of  1992, 
California  began  considering  the  use  of  lower-acid  NuLure 
bait  in  its  medfly  monitoring  program.  Heath  says. 

While  that's  bad  news  for  medllies.  it's  good  news  for  the 
public.  Heath  says.  The  improved  bait  does  less  damage  to 
paint  on  automobiles  and  other  surfaces.  Bait  mixed  with  an 
insecticide  is  often  dispersed  from  the  air  during  eradication 
programs  and  has  resulted  in  complaints  from  citizens  when 
droplets  cause  damage. — By  Sean  Adams,  ARS. 

Robert  Heath  is  at  the  USDA-ARS  bisect  Attractants, 
Behavior,  and  Basic  Bioloi^y  Research  Laboratoiy.  P.O.  Bo.x 
14565.  Gainesville,  Florida  32604.  Phone  (904)  374-5735, 
fax  number  {904)  374-5781.  ♦ 


22 


Agricultural  Research/August  1993 


Science  Update 


New  Low-Fat  Mozzarella  for  Pizza 

In  May,  pizza  made  with  ARS'  new 
low-fat  mozzarella  passed  its  first 
unofficial  taste  test,  with  hundreds  of 
children  at  two  Philadelphia  schools. 
USDA's  Food  and  Nutrition  Service  is 
evaluating  the  new  cheese  as  a  potential 
addition  to  the  department's  School 
Lunch  Program.  Compared  to  whole- 
milk  mozzarella,  the  new  cheese  has 
about  60  percent  less  fat  and  salt  and  40 
percent  more  protein  and  calcium.  It 
also  has  superior  "meltabihty"  to  low- 
fat  mozzarellas  now  on  the  market. 
Edyth  L.  Malin,  USDA-ARS  Eastern 
Regional  Research  Center,  Philadel- 
phia, Pennsylvania.  Phone  (215)  233- 
6444. 

ARS  Helps  Grape  Growers  With 
Vineyard  Viruses 

Several  grapevine  viruses  have 
shown  up  since  1991  in  many  replanted 
Cahfomia  wine  vineyards  and,  more 
recently,  in  table  and  raisin  grapevines. 
Many  infected  vines  die.  The  ARS 
scientist  who  diagnosed  the  problem  is 
now  ranking  vine  rootstocks  for  virus 
susceptibihty.  She  also  hopes  to  devise 
faster  diagnostics.  It's  too  soon  to  know 
if  viruses  will  affect  table  and  raisin 
grape  production  in  the  nation's  top 
grape-growing  state.  Biggest  financial 
threat  is  to  small  wineries  that  have 
already  replanted  once  to  replace  vines 
attacked  by  a  root-feeding  insect. 
Deborah  Golino,  USDA-ARS  Crops 
Pathology  and  Genetics  Research  Unit 
Davis,  California.  Phone  (916)  752- 
4568. 

Stain  Removers  From  Oilseed  Crops 

Biodegradable,  oil-absorbent  stain 
removers  have  been  formulated  from 
farm  commodities  such  as  peanuts  and 
soybeans.  The  new  cleansing  agents 
remove  fabric  stains  including  motor 
oil,  catsup,  mustard,  ink,  hpstick,  and 
mascara.  Scientists  are  seeking  a  patent 


on  the  discovery.  Remon  F.  Joiibran, 
USDA-ARS  Eastern  Regional  Research 
Center,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania. 
Phone  (215)  233-6453. 

New  Peppers  Have  Ornamental 
Pizzazz 

Blood-red,  Tabasco-like  peppers 
can't  be  missed  on  three  ornamental 
breeding  lines.  The  fohage  of  each  line 
contains  unique  blends  of  purple, 
green,  and  white  pigmentation.  The 
peppers  are  edible  but  pungent.  Fruit  of 
two  lines  are  borne  singly  and  in 
clusters  of  two  or  three.  The  other  line 
produces  numerous  clusters,  with  10  to 
15  peppers  per  cluster.  All  three 
succeeded  in  trials  as  bedding  plants  in 
Illinois  and  Japan  and  as  potted  plants 
in  Cahfomia.  John  R.  Stommel, 
Vegetable  Laboratory,  Beltsville, 
Maryland,  phone  (301)504-5583; 
Robert].  Griesbach,  USDA-ARS 
Florist  and  Nwseiy  Crops  Laboratory, 
Beltsville,  Manland  Phone  (301)504- 
6574. 

When  a  Disease  Gets  Sick,  Will 
Melons  Stay  Healthy? 

Viruses  may  prove  to  be  a  new  way 
to  use  nature  to  quell  bacterial  diseases 
of  crops.  One  such  virus,  a  type  known 
as  a  phage,  attacks  Envinia  ananas 
bacteria  that  cause  brown  spot  disease, 
which  can  strike  harvested  honeydews 
and  cantaloupes  in  Texas  and  Cahfor- 
nia.  Phages  are  harmless  to  people, 
animals,  plants,  and  insects.  But  when 
a  phage  injects  its  genetic  material  into 
a  bacterial  cell  of  E.  ananas,  the  cell 
obediently  cranks  out  more  phage 
particles  until  it  bursts.  Tests  this 
summer  are  seeing  if  phages  can 
prevent  brown  spot  from  taking  hold  in 
harvested  melons.  Cynthia  G.  Eayre, 
USDA-ARS  Crop  Quality  and  Emit 
Insects  Research  Unit,  Weslaco,  Texas. 
Phone  (210)  565-2647. 


Jojoba  Toxin  Disarmed  by  Bacteria 

Bacteria  discovered  by  ARS  scien- 
tists may  lead  to  the  use  of  jojoba  meal 
as  a  cattle  feed  supplement.  Jojoba  is  an 
oilseed  crop  now  used  in  cosmetics.  In 
studies,  Lactobacillus  arizoniae 
bacteria  broke  down  natural  toxins  that, 
up  to  now,  have  made  jojoba  unsafe  as 
cattle  feed.  James  L.  Swezey,  USDA- 
ARS  National  Center  for  Agticulniral 
Utilization  Research,  Peoria,  Illinois. 
Phone  (309)  685-4011. 


BOB  BJORK 


Jojoba  seeds.  (K903-1) 


Pear  Pest  Falls  to  Fungi 

Three  fungi  could  become  alterna- 
tives to  insecticides  against  the  worst 
insect  pest  of  pears,  the  pear  psylla. 
Scientists  found  the  fungi  infecting 
different  psyUa  and  aphid  species.  In 
lab  tests,  spraying  the  fungi — in  a  mix 
with  oil  or  water — killed  100  percent  of 
pear  psylla  within  5  days.  The  fungi  are 
species  of  Beauveria,  VeniciUium,  and 
Paecilomyces.  Gary  J.  Puterka,  USDA- 
ARS  Appalachian  Fruit  Research 
Laboratory,  Keameysville,  West 
Virginia.  Phone  (304)  725-3451. 


Agricultural  Research/ August  1993 


23 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Agricultural  Research  Service 
Room  408 
6303  Ivy  Lane 
Greenbelt,  MD  20770 

Official  Business 

Penalty  for  Private  Use  $300 


To  stop  mailing    EH 

To  change  your  address    EH 

Please  return  the  maiUng  label  from 
this  magazine. 


Bulk  Rate 
Postage  and  Fees  Paid 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Permit  No.  G-95 


Superintendent  of  Documents  Subscription  Order  Form 

Charge  your  order. 

It's  Easy! 


^^^^^^ 


VISA 


Order  Processing  Code: 

6130 

To  fax  your  orders  (202)  512  2233 

□  YES  ,  enter  my  subscription  as  follows: 

 subscriptions  to  Agricultural  Research  for  $28.00 

per  year  ($35.00  foreign). 

The  total  cost  of  my  order  is  $  .  Price  includes  regular 

domestic  postage  and  handling  and  is  subject  to  change. 
Call  Order  and  Information  Desk  at  (202)  783-3238  after 

9/30/93  to  verify  prices. 


(Company  or  personal  name) 


(Please  type  or  print) 


(Additional  address/attention  line) 


(Street  address) 


(City,  state,  ZIP  Code) 


(Daytime  phone  including  area  code; 


( Purchase  order  No.) 

YES  NO 

May  we  make  your  name/address  available  to  other  mailers?  |~j  |  [ 
Please  choose  method  of  payment: 

I    I  Check  payable  to  the  Superintendent  of  Documents 

]-□ 


I    I  GPO  Deposit  Account 
I    I  VISA  or  MasterCard  Account 


Exp.  date 


( Atilhori/iim  Simialtnv ) 


Mail  To:  New  Orders,  Superintendent  of  Docuniciils 
P.O.  Box  371954.  Pittsburgh,  PA  15250-7954 


i 


'•^  ARS  scientists  in  USDA's 
Water  Quality  Initiative  work  to 
make  sure  that  "Don't  drink  the 
water!"  isn't  heard  around 
America's  farmlands. 

"•^  An  inexpensive  white  pow- 
der called  polyacrylamide  helps 
stem  soil  erosion  from  furrow- 
irrigated  farmlands.  Crops  do 
better,  too,  because  water  infil- 
tration is  improved. 

^  Though  the  "worm  of  death" 
is  only  a  memory  today  for 
longtime  U.S.  ranchers,  the 
flesh-eating  screwworm  is  still  a 
scourge  to  livestock  and  wildlife 
in  parts  of  Central  America  and 
the  Caribbean. 


