Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


FORD 


Hard-Fought  Victories 
Against  Animai  Diseases 

The  battles  are  not  written  up  in  history  books  or  studied  by 
legions  of  schoolchildren;  monuments  to  the  heroes  are  scarce. 
But  the  impact  of  the  fight  against  animal  disease  echoes 
every  day  in  the  quality  and  quantity  of  foods  available  to 
consumers  worldwide. 

In  March  1884,  reports  of  foot-and-mouth  disease  in 
neighborhood  catUe  herds  were  enough  to  stir  near  hysteria  in 
Coffey  County.  Kansas.  Today,  foot-and-mouth  disease  is 
only  a  memory  in  the  United  States,  vanished  from  this 
country  since  1929. 

Foot-and-mouth  disease  is  just  one  of  at  least  a  dozen  major 
livestock  diseases  eradicated  in  the  United  States  through  the 
efforts  of  several  USDA  agencies,  including  the  Agricultural 
Research  Sewice  which  was  created  following  the  dissolution 
of  the  old  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry. 

Perhaps  ironically  in  light  of  the  efforts  that  followed,  when 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture  was  established  in  1 862,  no 
provision  was  made  for  work  on  either  animal  husbandry  or 
veterinary  medicine. 

It  was  not  until  May  29,  1 884.  that  President  Chester  A. 
Arthur  signed  the  act  establishing  the  Bureau  of  Animal 
Industry  within  USDA.  Feelings  may  have  been  ambivalent 
about  the  new  bureau;  while  the  act  establishing  it  included  an 
appropriation  of  $150,000,  the  bureau  at  first  was  specifically 
limited  to  only  20  employees. 

That  mle  eventually  fell  by  the  wayside,  and  the  BAI 
evolved  and  expanded  along  with  animal  health  concerns. 
Sweeping  changes  within  USDA  in  1953  saw  the  department's 
scientific  bureaus,  including  BAI  and  the  Bureau  of  Dairy 
Industry,  abolished  and  their  functions  transferred  to  the  then- 
new  Agricultural  Research  Service. 

ARS  has  been  an  important  ally  of  the  American  farmer  and 
consumer  in  combating  animal  disease.  In  the  case  of  foot- 
and-mouth  disease,  which  still  threatens  to  re-enter  the  country 
from  abroad,  ARS'  Plum  Island  Animal  Disease  Center  in 
New  York  has  played  a  pail  in  the  search  for  better  protection 
against  this  dreaded  attacker. 

Researchers  at  Plum  Island,  working  with  scientists  from 
the  animal  health  industi^,  have  developed  technology  that 
may  someday  lead  to  a  more  effective  vaccine  against  foot- 
and-mouth  disease. 

Hog  cholera,  a  bane  to  American  farmers  since  its  appear- 
ance in  the  Ohio  Valley  in  the  1 830' s,  today  represents  another 
animal  health  success  stoi7  with  a  strong  ARS  connection. 

Within  a  half  century  of  its  U.S.  debut,  hog  cholera  had 
spread  to  at  least  35  states;  a  single  Indiana  company  lost 
11,000  hogs  in  the  fall  of  1896. 

Scientists  at  ARS"  National  Animal  Disease  Center  at 
Ames,  Iowa,  did  their  part  to  help  drive  out  hog  cholera  by 


refining  new.  rapid  laboratory  tests  for  diagnosis,  in  part  so  that 
the  tests  could  be  practically  applied  in  a  field  program. 

The  tests,  based  on  examination  of  tissue  from  animals'  tonsils, 
were  judged  up  to  90  percent  effective.  Additional  refinements 
to  these  tests  made  it  possible  to  pinpoint  obscure  outbreaks  of 
infection  that  might  otherwise  have  gone  undetected. 

Screwworms  were  a  plague  on  the  catde  industry  of  the 
South  and  Southwest  until  an  ARS  entomologist  devised  a  new 
way  to  control  the  devastating  pests. 

The  plan  was  to  rear  screwworms  in  large  numbers, 
sterilize  them,  and  release  them  in  infested  areas  to  mate 
with  normal  insects.  Since  no  offspring  would  result  from 
such  matings,  it  was  hoped  that  the  pest  would,  in  effect, 
breed  itself  out  of  existence. 

The  theory  was  tested  on  the  island  of  Curacao  off  the 
coast  of  Venezuela;  within  6  months,  screwworms  had 
vanished  from  the  island.  Subsequent  application  of  the 
same  technique  on  a  massive  scale  led  to  the  total  eradica- 
fion  of  this  pest  from  the  United  States. 

Poultry  farmers  have  ARS  researchers  to  thank  for  the 
vaccine  now  used  against  Marek's  disease,  at  one  time  a  major 
cause  of  deaths  of  birds  and  condemnation  for  tumors  by  USDA 
inspectors  at  slaughterhouses. 

English  researchers  in  1967  reported  the  isolation  of  the 
causative  agent  of  Marek's  disease,  a  herpes  virus.  The 
causative  agent  was  also  discovered  that  same  year  at  an  East 
Lansing,  Michigan,  laboratory  established  by  the  BAI  in  the 
1930's  but  now  operated  by  ARS. 

The  East  Lansing  scientists  found  a  herpes  virus  in  turkeys 
that  would  not  kill  chickens  but  was  closely  related  to  the 
Marek's  disease  virus.  From  that,  they  developed  a  vaccine  that 
today  protects  poultry  around  the  world. 

Producers  are  not  the  only  ones  to  benefit  from  such  re- 
search. The  benefit-cost  index  of  the  Marek's  disease  vaccine 
to  the  production  of  human  food  was  estimated  in  the  mid- 1 980' s 
at  44.3,  meaning  that  a  dollar  spent  on  research  would  return  an 
average  of  $44.30  in  economic  benefits  through  such  avenues  as 
decreased  costs  of  production  of  poultry  meat  and  eggs. 

It  should  also  be  noted  that  Marek's  disease  was  the  first 
cancer  shown  to  be  caused  by  a  herpes  virus  and  the  first  such 
condition  of  any  animal  to  be  controlled  by  a  commercially 
applicable  vaccine.  A  former  director  of  the  National  Cancer 
Institute  called  the  findings  "one  of  the  single  most  important 
developments  in  cancer  research  within  the  past  10  years." 

So  despite  whatever  unspoken  fears  may  have  lurked  when 
the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry  was  originally  limited  to  a  staff 
of  20,  that  initial  appropriation  of  $150,000  has  proven  to  be  a 
wise  and  highly  rewarding  investment  in  the  health  and  well- 
being  of  Americans  both  urban  and  rural. 

Sandy  Miller  Hays 

Infomiation  Staff 
Agricultural  Research  Service 


2 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


Agricultural  Research 


Cover:  l.ivestock  sickness  and  deaths  from  eating  poisonous 
plants  such  as  lupine  cost  Western  ranchers  millions  of  dollars 
each  year.  Photo  by  Jack  Dykinga.  (K-438 1  - 1 ) 


4    Toxic  Encounters  With  Range  Plants 

Livestock  losses  cost  western  ranchers  millions. 

8    Better  Beefsteak  Begins  With  Healthy  Cattle 

Researchers  clamp  down  on  brucellosis  and  other  animal  diseases. 

14  Cattle  and  Sheep  Together:  Partners  in  Grazing 

Peaceful  coexistence  can  be  learned. 

17  Animal  Care  Tightly  Regulated 

It's  important  that  rules  for  experimental  use  are  properly 
followed. 

18  Hard  Times  in  the  Old  West 

Life  around  the  campfire  wasn't  all  cowboy  songs.  There  must 
have  been  some  grousing,  too. 

20  Infants  To  Benefit  From  Golden  Eggs 

Are  certain  amino  acids  essential  to  the  diet  of  the  diaper  set? 

22  Transgenic  Cotton  Scores  Knockout  Against  Worms 

For  the  second  year  in  a  row,  Bt  cotton  is  bowling  over  pests. 

26  1991  Index 


Page  24 


Vol.  39,  No.  12 
December  1991 

Editor:  Lloyd  E.  McLaughlin 
Feature  Editor:  Sandy  Miller  Hays 
.•\rt  Director:  William  Johnson 
Photo  Editor:  John  Kucharski 
Associate  Photo  Editor:  Anita  Daniels 

Reference  to  commercial  products  and  services  is 
made  with  the  understanding  that  no  discrimination 
is  intended  and  no  endorsement  by  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture  is  implied. 

Aghcidntral  Research  is  published  monthly  by  the 
Agricultural  Research  Service.  U.S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  DC  20250-2350. 


The  Secretary  of  Agriculture  has  determined  that 
publication  of  this  periodical  is  necessary  in  the 
transaction  of  public  business  required  by  law. 

Information  in  this  magazine  is  public  property  and 
may  be  reprinted  without  permission.  Non- 
copyrighted photos  are  available  to  mass  media  in 
color  transparencies  or  black  and  white  prints. 
Order  by  photo  number  and  date  of  magazine  issue. 

Subscription  requests  should  be  placed  with  the 
Superintendent  of  Documents,  Government  Printing 
Office,  Washington,  DC  20402.  Please  see  back 
cover  for  order  form. 

Address  magazine  inquiries  or  comments  to:  The 
Editor,  Information  Staff,  Room  316,  Bldg.  005, 


10300  Baltimore  Ave.,  Beltsville  Agricultural 
Research  Center- West,  Beltsville,  MD  20705- 
2350.  Phone  (301)344-3280.  After  December 
16,  phone  (301)  504-6280. 

When  writing  to  request  address  changes  or 
deletions,  please  include  a  recent  address  label. 

Edward  Madigan.  Secretary 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

R.D.  Plowman,  Administrator 
Agricultural  Research  Service 

Robert  W.  Norton.  Director 
Information  Staff 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


3 


Home  on  the  Risky  Range 

Toxic  Encounters 
With 

Range  Plants 


An  only-one-of-its-kind-in-the- 
world  lab  in  Utah  works  to  make 
the  range  a  safer  place  for  grazing 
livestock. 


On  high  mountain  rangelands  in  central  Utah,  range  technician  Gus 


4 


n  summer,  purplish-blue  lark- 
spur blossoms  decorate  moun- 
tain hillsides  and  meadows  in 
the  western  United  States.  But, 
beautiful  as  they  are,  these 
plants  can  be  deadly  when  cattle  feed 
on  their  foliage. 

Larkspur,  like  pine  needles,  loco- 
weed,  lupine,  and  a  host  of  other  plants 
found  in  western  pastures,  contains 
toxins  that  can  poison  unwitting, 
hungry  livestock. 

When  pregnant  animals  graze 
certain  poisonous  plants,  the  conse- 
quences can  be  especially  gruesome — 
an  offspring  with  twisted,  deformed 
legs  caused  by  toxins  in  lupine,  or  the 
bizarre,  one-eyed  lamb  that  can  result 
when  ewes  eat  false  hellebore,  a  plant 
in  the  lily  family. 

Westem  ranchers  suffer  losses  to  the 
tune  of  $340  million  each  year  because 
of  poisonous  plants,  according  to  Lynn 
F.  James,  research  leader  at  the  ARS 
Poisonous  Plants  Research  Laboratory. 

Located  in  Logan.  Utah,  about  a  2- 
hour  drive  north  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
laboratory  is  the  only  one  of  its  kind  in 
the  world.  James  and  his  team  of 
scientists  work  to  identify  toxic  plants 
and  their  poisons,  describe  their  effects, 
and  develop  new  ways  to  prevent 
poisonings. 

The  loss  figure  related  to  poisonings 
includes  only  deaths  and  reproductive 
disturbances.  But  there  are  other,  less 


tangible  costs,  such  as  reduced  weight 
gains  in  ill  animals.  Other  indirect 
expenses  include  fencing  pastures, 
herding  cattle  to  steer  them  away  from 
dangerous  plants,  and  poisonous  plant 
eradication  efforts. 

Hundreds  of  plants  growing  on 
westem  ranges  can  harm  grazing 
livestock.  Some  have  killed  humans, 
too;  the  ancient  Greeks  executed  the 
philosopher  Socrates  with  a  lethal  tea 
brewed  from  hemlock.  Today,  people 
sometimes  eat  the  bulbs  of  a  grassy 
perennial  called  deathcamas,  mistaking 
them  for  edible  roots. 

In  terms  of  cattle  losses,  however, 
some  of  the  worst  offenders  are 
larkspur,  ponderosa  pine,  and  locoweed. 

U.S.  ranchers  in  the  intermountain 
West  lose  more  cattle  to  larkspur  than 
to  any  other  poisonous  plant.  Cows 
like  to  eat  the  plants  with  spur-shaped 
flowers,  which  grow  up  to  6  feet  tall  in 
dense,  abundant  clumps  in  mountain 
pastures  throughout  the  West. 

Chemist  Gary  D.  Manners,  with 
the  ARS  Plant  Protection  Research 
Unit  in  Albany,  California,  has 
identified  at  least  15  different  toxins, 
compounds  known  as  alkaloids,  in  a 
single  larkspur  plant. 

In  cooperation  with  Logan  animal 
scientist  Kip  E.  Panter.  he  is  trying 
to  pinpoint  which  alkaloid  is 
responsible  for  the  plant's  nasty 
effects  on  cattle. 


Once  Manners  identifies  the 
toxin,  he  and  Logan  range  scientist 
Michael  H.  Ralphs  will  determine 
whether  the  toxin's  concentration  in 
the  plant  changes  in  response  to 
variables  like  temperature,  moisture, 
or  shade. 

Trained  Cows  and  Peer  Pressure 

With  that  information,  they  may 
be  able  to  predict  when  the  risk  of 
poisoning  is  greatest.  Logan  scien- 
tists can  then  help  ranchers  work  out 
the  safest  grazing  strategies. 

Tactics  to  stop  larkspur  poisonings 
take  a  variety  of  forms.  One  approach 
is  simply  killing  the  plants  with 
herbicides.  Ralphs,  along  with  Utah 
State  University  scientists,  has  studied 
several  promising  chemicals,  including 
metsulfuron.  that  work  at  veiy  low 
concentrations  on  young  larkspur. 

"Herbicides  may  be  useful  to 
reduce  dense  patches  of  larkspur  that 
cause  poisonings  year  after  year," 
says  Ralphs.  Widespread  use, 
however,  isn't  practical  because  of 
the  expense  and  because  the  plants 
often  grow  on  rough,  mountainous 
terrain  that's  not  easily  accessible. 

If  snuffing  out  the  plants  doesn't 
work,  an  alternative  may  be  training 
cattle  to  avoid  the  attractive  flowers. 

Ralphs  has  tried  a  novel  strategy 
known  as  aversive  conditioning.  He 
fed  the  cows  small  amounts  of  fresh 
larkspur  and  then  dosed  them — 
through  a  stomach  pump — with 
lithium  chloride,  a  chemical  that 
nauseates  them.  The  cattle  associated 
the  taste  of  larkspur  with  the  illness 
and  subsequently  refused  to  eat  it. 

Initially,  the  experiment  was 
successful.  Animals  staunchly 
avoided  the  plants  in  meadows.  But 
the  trained  cows  reverted  to  eating 
larkspur  when  they  were  placed  in  a 
field  with  untrained  cohorts  who 
were  happily  devouring  the  stuff. 


Continued  research  will  show  if 
the  aversion  can  be  strengthened  to 
overcome  the  influence  of  their  peers. 

If  a  cow  does  gobble  a  few  mouth- 
fuls  of  larkspur,  is  there  any  other 
possible  way  to  thwart  the  toxin? 
Maybe,  says  animal  scientist  James 
A.  Pfister  of  the  Logan  lab. 

Pfister  is  investigating  another 
potential  strategy,  a  miniature  pump 
that  could  be  surgically  implanted 
under  a  cow's  skin.  The  pumps 
would  release  a  protective  com- 
pound— as  yet  unidentified — that 
would  counteract  the  larkspur  poison. 

The  pump  is  about  the  size  of  a 
man's  little  finger,  large  enough  to 
slowly  release  drugs  for  about  28 
days.  Eventually,  researchers  might 
be  able  to  fashion  smaller  pumps  or 
pellets  that  could  be  implanted  under 


the  skin,  similar  to  the  implants  now 
used  in  cattle  to  slowly  release 
growth  hormones. 

"Larkspur  is  dangerous  to  cattle 
for  about  6  weeks  during  summer,  so 
during  that  time  the  pumps  could  be 
used  to  protect  cattle,"  says  Pfister. 

He's  working  with  scientists  at 
Colorado  State  University  to  identify 
a  protective  compound. 

"Larkspur  toxins  seem  to  interfere 
with  chemical  compounds  found  at 
the  nerve  junctions.  We're  looking 
for  something  that  could  counteract 
that  effect,"  says  Pfister. 

Like  larkspur,  ponderosa  pines  are 
also  abundant  in  the  West.  If  preg- 
nant cows  eat  the  long,  soft  needles 
of  the  ponderosa  pine  during  the 
final  trimester  of  pregnancy,  they're 
likely  to  abort  their  calves. 


JACK  DYKINGA 


Near  Miles  City,  Montana,  animal  scientist  Robert  Short  (right)  and  rancher  Tim  Donnelly 
discuss  ways  to  prevent  cattle  from  eating  ponderosa  pine  needles,  often  the  cause  of 
abortion  in  cattle.  (K-2973-10) 


6 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


Since  sheep  are  less  affected  by  larkspur,  they  may  be  used  to  reduce  the  amount  of  it  in 
mountain  pastures  before  cattle  are  allowed  to  graze.  In  this  study,  range  scientist  Michael 
Ralphs  records  the  sheep's  plant  preferences.  (K-4378-10) 


"Even  if  the  cows  don't  abort, 
they'll  often  have  premature, 
smaller  calves  that  aren't  as  healthy 
as  normal  calves,"  says  James. 
"Pine  needles  may  cause  losses 
totaling  $20  million  each  year." 

Robert  Short,  an  ARS  physiolo- 
gist based  in  Miles  City,  Montana, 
works  with  the  Logan  scientists  in 
efforts  to  identify  the  physiological 
mechanisms  responsible  for  abor- 
tions. Their  earlier  studies  found 


changes  in  levels  of  progesterone,  a 
hormone  important  in  pregnancy,  in 
cows  that  ate  pine  needles. 

Affected  cows  also  have  a  ten- 
dency to  retain  their  placentas 
instead  of  expelling  them  after  the 
calf  is  born.  Infections  can  result, 
and  the  cow  may  take  longer  than 
usual  to  rebreed. 

Researchers  aren't  sure  why  cows 
eat  the  needles,  which  are  chockfuU 


of  bitter  chemicals.  Pfister  found, 
however,  that  nonpregnant  animals 
eat  as  many  pine  needles  as  their 
pregnant  sisters. 

Other  harmful  plant  toxins 
include  alkaloid  compounds  found  in 
lupines  (members  of  the  pea  family), 
poison-hemlock,  and  various  to- 
bacco species,  as  well  as  larkspur. 
These  can  cause  skeletal  deformities 
such  as  cleft  palate. 

At  the  Logan  lab.  Kip  Panter  uses 
ultrasound  imaging,  common  in 
human  medical  diagnosis,  to  observe 
developing  animals  whose  mothers 
have  eaten  toxic  plants.  His  aim  is 
to  learn  exactly  how  and  when  the 
toxins  harm  fetuses. 

"We've  found  that  some  of  the 
alkaloid  toxins  actually  sedate  the 
growing  fetus  and  keep  it  from 
kicking  and  stretching  normally 
while  it's  in  the  uterus,"  says  Panter. 
Consequently,  calves'  spines  and 
legs  may  be  crooked,  instead  of 
supple  and  flexible.  In  some  herds, 
as  many  as  30  percent  of  calves 
suffer  these  deformities. 

The  ultrasound  studies  revealed 
that  lupine  and  poison-hemlock  are 
most  dangerous  when  the  pregnant 
cows  graze  them  between  the  30th 
and  70th  day  of  gestation.  Contin- 
ued studies  should  narrow  this  "toxic 
window"  even  more. — By  Julie 
Corliss,  ARS. 

Lynn  F.  James,  Kip  E.  Panter, 
James  A.  Pfister,  and  Michael  H. 
Ralphs  are  at  the  USD  A- ARS 
Poisonous  Plant  Research  Labora- 
tory, 1150E.  14th  N.,  Logan,  UT 
8432 L  Phone  (80})  752-294 L  Gary 
D.  Manners  is  at  the  USDA-ARS 
Plant  Protection  Research  Unit,  800 
Buchanan,  Albany,  CA  94710. 
Phone  (5 JO)  559-5813.  Robert 
Short  is  at  the  USDA-ARS  Range 
and  Livestock  Research  Unit,  Rte.  J, 
Box  202  L  Miles  Cit^\  MT  59301. 
Phone  (406)  232-4970.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/December  1 99 1 


7 


Veterinary  pathologist  Norman  Cheville  (left),  molecular  biologist  Shirley  Hailing,  and  National  Animal  Disease  Center  director  Harley 
Moon  analyze  DNA  sequence  reactions  of  a  vaccine  made  from  a  modified  Brucella  abortus  bacterium.  (K-4134-6) 


Better  Beefsteak  Begins  With  Healthy  Cattle 


On  the  surface,  it  seems  nothing 
could  be  simpler:  Take  a  cow, 
add  plenty  of  grass  and  water, 
and  presto!  Abundant  protein-laden 
beef  is  the  reward. 

But  that  scenario  doesn't  reckon 
with  the  unseen  hordes  of  bacteria  and 
viruses  that  can  thwart  the  best  laid 
plans  of  an  unwary  cattle  producer. 

One  of  the  most  prevalent  of  these 
microscopic  troublemakers  is  a  bac- 
terium called  Brucella  abortus,  the 
culprit  behind  bovine  brucellosis,  a 
serious  problem  in  American  cattle 
herds  since  at  least  the  1840's. 

Sometimes  called  Bang's  disease  in 
honor  of  the  Danish  veterinarian  who 
first  isolated  the  disease  organism, 
brucellosis  causes  cows  to  abort, 
interferes  with  fertility,  weakens 
calves,  and  lowers  milk  yields. 

Each  year,  the  disease  costs  U.S. 
cattle  producers  an  estimated  $30 


million,  including  animal  losses  and 
expenses  for  testing  and  vaccination. 

Infected  herds  must  be  placed  under 
quarantine.  Additionally,  regulations 
against  interstate  shipment  within  the 
United  States  and  trade  barriers  im- 
posed by  foreign  countries  require  U.S. 
cattle  producers  to  certify  that  export 
cattle  and  embryos  are  brucellosis-free. 

When  a  cow  gives  birth  or  aborts  a 
calf,  billions  of  B.  abortus  bacteria  are 
shed  in  her  body  fluids  or  in  the 
afterbirth.  Other  cows  can  become 
infected  when  they  lick  the  afterbirth; 
newborn  calves  can  be  infected  as 
fetuses  or  by  drinking  milk  from  an 
infected  mother. 

The  disease  typically  gains  entry  to  a 
healthy  herd  through  the  introduction  of 
an  infected  heifer  or  calf.  Animals  can 
also  become  infected  while  mingling  with 
other  stock  at  fairs  and  Uvestock  shows. 


Current  bacterio- 
logical tests  may 
take  as  long  as  2 
weeks  to  identify 
the  brucellosis 
organism.  But  with 
PGR,  it  only  takes 
a  day. 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


Precautions  can  be  taken  to  impede 
invasion  by  this  stealthy  disease. 
Producers  adding  breeding  stock  to 
their  herd  must  ascertain  that  the 
animals  they  buy  are  certified  brucello- 
sis-free. Calves  are  typically  vacci- 
nated between  the  ages  of  5  and  9 
months,  a  primary  means  of  control. 

But  while  commercial  vaccines  do 
protect  cattle  against  bnicellosis,  there 
are  significant  problems  with  the  cur- 
rently used  vaccine  known  as  strain  19. 

This  vaccine  uses  a  live  strain  of  the 
bacterium,  so  the  vaccine  itself  can 
cause  abortion  if  given  to  a  pregnant 
cow.  The  live  bacterium  also  poses  the 
threat  of  infection  for  humans  handling 
the  vaccine. 

In  addition,  some  cattle  producers 
are  reluctant  to  use  the  vaccine  because 
of  inability  to  distinguish  in  testing 
between  animals  that  have  been 
vaccinated  and  those  that  have  been 
naturally  infected. 

"All  of  these  factors  together  have 
dramatically  slowed  down  eradica- 
tion," says  Norman  F.  Cheville,  leader 
for  brucellosis  research  at  the  National 
Animal  Disease  Center  at  Ames,  Iowa. 

"Vaccinated  animals  that  react 
positively  to  blood  tests  for  the  disease 
may  be  classified  as  possibly  diseased 
and  consequently  destroyed." 

Fortunately,  ARS  researchers  are 
gaining  ground  on  a  practical  means  of 
sorting  out  infected  animals  from 
vaccinated  ones. 

The  scientists  face  two  challenges. 
First,  they  must  develop  an  effective 
vaccine  with  some  sort  of  harmless 
mutation  to  help  distinguish  it  from 
natural  infection.  Second,  they  must 
develop  a  diagnostic  test  capable  of 
discerning  that  difference. 

Addressing  the  first  task,  ARS 
molecular  biologists  Shirley  M. 
Hailing  and  Fred  M.  Tatum  have 
genetically  modified  B.  abortus 
vaccine  strain  19  in  hopes  of  deleting 
a  specific  protein  immunogen.  The 
protein  immunogen  causes  the  cow's 


immune  system  to  produce  the 
antibodies  that  typically  indicate  in 
testing  that  the  cow  is  infected. 

Currently,  the  protein  immunogen  is 
present  in  both  the  vaccine  and  in  the 
disease-causing  organism.  If  a  vaccine 
lacking  that  protein  is  developed  and 
used.  Hailing  says,  tests  for  the  protein 
in  an  animal's  blood  could  reveal 
whether  the  animal  has  received  the 
altered  vaccine  or  has  been  infected  with  a 
disease-producing  strain  of  B.  abortus. 

The  researchers  are  determining 
the  effectiveness  of  three  mutant 
vaccines  on  24  cows  and  24  calves. 


KEITH  WELLER 


Using  a  polymerase  chain  reaction  assay, 
microbiologist  Betsy  Bricker  identifies 
Brucella  abortus  and  Brucella  ovis  in  field 
samples.  (K-4142-1) 


Two  of  the  mutant  vaccines  used  in 
the  trials  were  genetically  engineered 
by  Hailing  and  Tatum;  the  third  is  a 
natural  mutant  strain  developed  by 
scientists  at  Virginia  Polytechnic 
Institute  and  State  University. 

"We're  looking  for  the  one  that 
provides  the  best  immunity  and  that  can 


be  easily  identified  by  a  blood  test," 
says  Cheville. 

"Then  we'll  know  positively  if  an 
animal  has  been  vaccinated  with  the 
mutant  vaccine  or  has  been  infected 
naturally  by  a  virulent  field  strain. 
Such  an  accomplishment  would  be  a 
major  breakthrough  toward  the  eradica- 
tion of  brucellosis." 

In  a  related  project  directed  by 
Hailing,  microbiologist  Betsy  J. 
Bricker  has  tackled  the  job  of  improv- 
ing the  diagnosis.  She's  discovered  a 
small  piece  of  genetic  material — 
DNA — that's  found  in  all  Brucella,  but 
not  in  other  bacteria. 

Bricker  uses  a  technique  called 
polymerase  chain  reaction  (PCR)  to 
track  down  the  brucellosis  organism. 
This  technique  makes  many  copies 
of  targeted  genetic  material.  When 
these  copies  are  exposed  to  ultravio- 
let light,  DNA  of  a  particular  size 
glows,  unmasking  any  B.  abortus 
lurking  there. 

Current  bacteriological  tests  may 
take  as  long  as  2  weeks  to  identify 
the  organism.  "But  with  PCR,  the 
organism  can  be  identified  in  1  day," 
she  says. 

The  use  of  PCR  in  B.  abortus 
diagnosis  also  eliminates  the  need 
for  using  live  bacterial  cells.  Diag- 
nosticians must  use  particular 
caution  now  in  performing  bacterio- 
logical tests  with  live  cells  because 
humans  can  contract  brucellosis. 
Symptoms  include  extremely  high 
fever  and  chills,  fatigue,  and  an 
aching  similar  to  that  of  arthritis. 

In  trials  on  30  randomly  selected 
field  isolates  of  B.  abortus,  the 
PCR  method  correctly  identified  all 
30  samples. 

Bricker  plans  to  design  a  test  to 
identify  other  species  of  brucella  such 
as  B.  melitensis,  which  infects  goats, 
and  B.  suis,  which  infects  pigs.  She 
also  hopes  to  expand  the  technique  to 
identify  B.  abortus  vaccine  strain  19  or 
one  of  the  new  mutant  vaccines. 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


9 


Just  as  pregnancy  poses  obstacles 
to  brucellosis  vaccination,  it  can  also 
interfere  with  herd  vaccinations 
against  infectious  bovine  rhinotra- 
cheitis  (IBR),  a  severe  respiratory 
disease  of  cattle. 

Caused  by  bovine  herpesvirus  1 
(BHV  1),  IBR  can  be  blocked  by  live- 
virus  vaccines.  But  most  of  these 
vaccines  cannot  be  given  to  pregnant 
cattle  because  of  the  danger  of  abor- 
tion. And  in  some  herd  management 
systems,  cattle  producers  may  not 
know  when  their  cows  are  pregnant  or 
have  just  been  bred. 

At  the  National  Animal  Disease 
Center,  veterinarian  Janice  M.  Miller 
and  microbiologist  Cecelia  A.  Whet- 
stone are  testing  a  genetically  altered 
version  of  BHV  1  that  might  be  used  to 
develop  a  safer  vaccine  against  IBR. 


Cooperating  researchers  at  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  altered  the 
virus  by  removing  a  piece  of  its  genetic 
material  that  causes  production  of  the 
enzyme  thymidine  kinase  (TK).  The 
ARS  researchers  then  gave  the  altered 
vims  to  six  pregnant  cows  and  none  of 
the  cows  aborted. 

In  contrast,  five  out  of  six  pregnant 
cows  given  the  normal  TK-positive 
virus  aborted.  The  researchers  will 
now  study  the  TK-negative  virus  for  its 
effectiveness  as  protection  against  IBR. 

In  the  meantime.  Miller  recom- 
mends vaccinating  young  heifers 
against  IBR  at  4  to  10  months  of  age, 
before  they  reach  breeding  age. 

At  the  Animal  Diseases  Research 
Unit  at  Pullman,  Washington,  microbi- 
ologist David  T.  Shen  and  colleagues 


are  also  addressing  the  question  of 
bovine  herpesviruses. 

In  addition  to  studying  BHV  1,  the 
Pullman  researchers  are  tackling 
bovine  herpesvirus  4,  which  has  been 
implicated  as  a  cause  of  infertility  and 
abortion  in  cattle. 

Shen  and  co-workers  have  produced 
specially  designed  probes  that  could  be 
used  to  diagnose  these  two  viruses. 
One  type  of  probe,  called  a  monoclonal 
antibody,  can  detect  the  presence  of 
antibodies  made  by  the  cow's  body  in 
response  to  the  virus. 

The  other,  a  nucleic  acid  probe  made 
from  a  fragment  of  the  virus'  genetic 
material,  will  detect  the  virus  itself. 

"Because  these  probes  are  very 
sensitive,  we  might  be  able  to  track 
down  the  virus  in  a  variety  of  samples 
from  cattle,  such  as  blood,  tears,  or 


KEITH  WELLER 


Veterinarian  Janice  Miller  observes  cultured  cells  that  are  infected  with  bovine  rhinotracheitis  virus.  The  virus  is  being  grown  for  use  as  an 
experimental  vaccine.  (K-4140-9) 


10 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


semen."  says  Shcn.  Iniprox  cd  diagno- 
sis could  help  researchers  prevent 
further  spread  of  the  potentially  costly 
diseases,  he  adds. 

Back  at  the  National  Animal 
Disease  Center  at  Ames,  close  atten- 
tion is  also  being  paid  to  mastitis,  an 
important  and  costly  disease  in  dairy 
cattle  and  sheep  as  well  as  beef  cattle. 
To  complicate  matters,  the  incidence 
of  this  bacterial  disease  is  increased  by 
stresses  such  as  calving. 

Veterinary  medical  officer 
Marcus  E.  Kehrli,  Jr..  and  physiolo- 
gist Judith  R.  Stabel  have  found  in 
studies  at  Ames  that  cows  are  most 
susceptible  to  mastitis  just  before 
and  after  calving. 

They  hypothesized  that  a  natural 
protein  called  G-CSF,  made  by  various 
cells,  could  lend  a  helping  hand  to  the 
cow's  immune  system  in  times  of 
stress.  G-CSF  stimulates  bone  marrow 
to  produce  white  blood  cells  that  help 
fight  off  infections. 

In  tests,  Kehrli  gave  daily  injections 
of  G-CSF  to  10  dairy  cows.  The 
researchers  noted  that  after  these 
injections,  the  cows'  number  of  white 
blood  cells,  called  neutrophils,  soared 
to  15  times  more  than  normal. 

"If  we  can  increase  the  number  and 
ability  of  white  blood  cells  to  protect 
against  infections,  we  may  reduce  the 
need  to  use  antibiotics,"  says  Kehrli. 
"This  means  that  costs  to  producers 
would  be  reduced." 

Also  figuring  into  the  link  between 
disease  and  stress  is  the  breed  of  cattle 
involved,  according  to  physiologist 
Michael  T.  Zavy. 

Stress  sets  off  a  chain  reaction  in  an 
animal.  The  hypothalamus  in  the 
animal's  brain  secretes  a  chemical 
called  CRF  that  causes  the  animal's 
pituitary  to  release  a  hormone  known 
as  ACTH.  This  hormone  in  turn  acts 
on  the  animal's  adrenal  gland,  causing 
the  production  of  substances  called 
glucocorticoids. 


KEITH  WELLER 


Microbiologist  Cecelia  Whetstone  is 
working  on  a  safer  IBR  vaccine  than  the  one 
currently  used,  which  is  made  from  a  bovine 
herpes  virus  that  can  cause  abortions  in 
pregnant  cattle.  (K-4136-1) 


Pinpointing  the  level  of  glucocorti- 
coids is  important  because  it's  believed 
a  chronic  overabundance  of  glucocorti- 
coids can  interfere  with  the  animal's 
natural  immune  response,  leaving  it 
wide  open  to  a  variety  of  infections. 

In  tests  at  the  ARS  Forage  and 
Livestock  Research  Laboratory  at  El 
Reno,  Oklahoma,  Zavy  studied 
differences  in  stress  reaction  between 
Bos  taurus  cattle,  typically  the  British 
breeds,  and  the  Bos  indicus  breeds, 
typified  by  Brahman  catde. 

Since  many  herds  in  the  southern 
United  States  include  a  combination  of 
Brahman  and  British  blood,  Zavy's 
study  included  10  calves  from  Brah- 
man fathers  and  Angus  mothers,  12 
from  Brahman  fathers  and  Hereford 
mothers,  and  22  from  Angus  fathers 
and  Hereford  mothers. 

Over  a  45 -day  period,  the  calves 
were  separated  from  their  mothers. 


weaned,  and  hauled  on  cattle  trucks  for 
21  hours.  Throughout  the  test  period, 
1 1  blood  samples  were  taken  from  each 
calf  to  check  levels  of  a  specific 
glucocorticoid,  Cortisol.  In  addition, 
each  animal  received  an  equal  dose  of 
ACTH  during  initial  handling,  wean- 
ing, transportation,  and  recovery  to 
stimulate  Cortisol  release. 

"By  doing  all  this,  we  could  com- 
pare the  amount  of  Cortisol  secreted  at 
different  times,"  says  Zavy.  "If  the 
animals  all  reacted  to  the  stress  in  the 
same  way,  they  should  theoretically 
have  equal  amounts  of  Cortisol." 

Overall,  the  tests  indicated  wean- 
ing and  transport  were  most  stressful 
for  both  Bos  taurus  and  Bos  indicus 
cattle.  But  they  also  uncovered  some 
differences  in  how  the  two  species 
handled  stress. 

"On  a  day-to-day  basis.  Bos  indicus 
animals  had  up  to  50  percent  higher 
levels  of  Cortisol,  as  well  as  higher 
levels  of  norepinephrine  and  epineph- 
rine, than  Bos  taurus,  "  Zavy  says. 

"But  when  we  gave  the  ACTH,  the 
Bos  taurus  animals  mobilized  more 
Cortisol  than  the  Bos  indicus.  It 
wouldn't  be  unreasonable  to  say  this 
difference  could  affect  disease-resis- 
tance capabilities  among  the  different 
breeds.  But  this  work  is  just  a  starting 
point;  there's  still  a  long  way  to  go." 

While  transport  is  admittedly 
stressful,  stopovers  at  the  sale  barn  can 
also  take  a  toll,  says  Andy  Cole,  an 
animal  scientist  and  research  leader  at 
the  ARS  Bovine  Respiratory  Disease 
Research  Unit  at  Bushland,  Texas. 

"The  typical  feeder  calf  in  the 
United  States  is  weaned  at  6  to  7 
months  of  age  and  goes  to  the 
auction  barn,  where  it's  purchased  by 
a  buyer  who's  putting  together  an 
order  for  a  feeder  or  stocker  opera- 
tion," explains  Cole. 

"On  average,  it  takes  4  days  for  an 
order  to  be  assembled.  That's  4  days 
when  calves  from  as  many  as  60 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


11 


KEITH  WELLER 


Physiologist  Judith  Stabel  draws  blood  to  be  analyzed  for  the  effects  of  an  earlier  injection 
of  a  white-blood-cell  stimulating  natural  protein,  G-CSF.  (K-4135-11) 


different  farms  are  mingled  together 
and  stressed  from  being  separated  from 
their  mothers." 

The  resuU:  A  bacterium  called 
Pasteurella  haemolytica,  commonly 
found  in  the  calf  s  nasal  cavity,  may 
take  advantage  of  the  animal's 
stressed  condition  and  invade  its 
lungs,  causing  pneumonia.  In 
addition,  other  bacteria  and  viruses, 
probably  passed  on  from  the  calf's 
new  penmates,  attack  and  infect. 

Fortunately  for  farmers,  14  years  of 
research  at  Bushland  have  uncovered 
secrets  for  easing  the  calf  s  journey 
down  the  marketing  path. 

"The  typical  order  buyer  will  feed 
the  calves  low-quality  hay  at  the  sale 
bam,"  Cole  says.  "But  our  data 
indicates  that  if  you  give  them  a 
nutritionally  balanced  concentrate  plus 
good  quality  hay,  the  number  of 
animals  that  get  sick  will  be  reduced  up 
to  20  percent,  and  death  rates  are  cut  an 
average  of  30  percent." 

Cole  says  a  typical  feed  concentrate 
might  include  com  as  its  grain,  along 
with  a  protein  supplement  and  cotton- 
seed hulls  or  ground  alfalfa,  for  an 
overall  protein  content  of  about  14 
percent.  Using  a  50-percent-grain  feed 
concentrate  of  this  type  costs  about  30 
cents  per  calf,  he  adds. 

One  common  method  of  pre- 
conditioning the  calf  for  the  rigors  to 
come  has  been  weaning  it  about  30 
days  before  sale  and  switching  it  to 
feed  concentrate  at  the  farni. 

"But  our  data  indicate  that's  not 
economical,"  says  Cole.  "However, 
if  you  give  them  limited  amounts  of 
feed  concentrate  in  addition  to  the 
milk  from  their  mothers  the  last  60 
days  on  the  farm,  they  get  more 
nutrition  in  their  rumen,  they  become 
familiar  with  the  concentrate,  and 
they're  stressed  less  when  they're 
taken  from  their  mothers." 

One  of  the  chief  culprits  in  calves' 
stress-related  ills  is  bovine  viral 
diarrhea,  or  BVD.  This  virus  is 


receiving  close  scrutiny  from  microbi- 
ologist Hwei-Sing  Kwang  and  veteri- 
nary medical  officer  E.  Travis  Little- 
dike  at  the  Roman  L.  Hruska  U.S.  Meat 
Animal  Research  Center  (MARC)  at 
Clay  Center,  Nebraska. 

"The  mortality  rate  on  BVD  is 
usually  low,  but  it  sets  the  cattle  up  for 
many  other  diseases,"  says  Littledike. 
"Cattle  producers  vaccinate  their  herds 
against  this  disease,  but  there's  a  big 
controversy  over  which  vaccines  to 
use.  We  found  evidence  that  the  strain 
of  BVD  we  have  here  at  MARC  wasn't 
controlled  by  the  vaccine  we'd  been 
using  for  the  last  8  years." 

Complicating  the  picture  are 
carrier  animals  who  do  not  respond 
to  the  vaccines. 

"When  a  calf  is  exposed  to  the  virus 
while  still  in  its  mother's  uterus 
between  the  45th  and  125  th  day  of 
pregnancy,  the  calf  s  immune  system 
isn't  programmed  yet,"  Littledike 
explains.  "So  when  the  immune 
system  is  finally  programmed,  it 
assumes  that  virus  is  a  normal  part  of 


the  animal's  body  and  does  not  make 
antibodies  against  the  virus." 

The  carrier  animal  can  spread  the 
virus  to  its  herd  mates  through  cough- 
ing, saliva,  feces,  or  any  other  body 
secretion,  notes  Kwang. 

"If  we  can  pull  the  carriers  out  of  the 
herd  before  breeding  season  begins, 
that  should  prevent  further  BVD 
problems  in  the  herd,  unless  more 
BVD-infected  animals  are  brought  into 
the  herd,"  Littledike  adds. 

"But  because  a  carrier's  immune 
system  doesn't  usually  produce 
antibodies  against  the  virus,  it's  hard 
to  identify  them  with  tests  that  check 
for  antibodies.  The  virus  has  to  be 
isolated  and  identified  in  the  blood  to 
detect  carriers." 

In  addition  to  costing  as  much  as 
$25  per  test,  current  methods  to  detect 
infection  in  an  animal  can  take  up  to  2 
weeks  for  results.  In  contrast,  Kwang 
has  devised  a  system  that  offers  an 
answer  in  I  to  2  days. 

Kwang 's  system,  which  involves 
producing  recombinant  proteins  in 


12 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


bacteria  from  a  piece  of  DNA  of  a 
BVD  strain,  might  also  help  cUirify 
whether  the  antibodies  in  a  calf"s  blood 
are  the  result  of  an  eaiiier  vaccination 
or  actual  infection. 

One  telltale  sign  is  the  presence  of 
specific  proteins  produced  by  the  viral 
RNA.  Animals  naturally  tend  to 
produce  antibodies  against  three  such 
proteins — p80,  gp53.  and  gp48 — in 
greater  abundance  than  against  other 
proteins  from  the  virus. 

Kwang  and  Littledike  have  found  no 
evidence  of  p80  in  blood  samples  from 
animals  that  have  been  vaccinated  with 
a  killed  strain  of  BVD.  However,  pSO 
was  detected  in  animals  that  had  been 
naturally  infected  or  had  received  a 
modified  live  BVD  vaccine.  All  three 
methods  of  exposure  resulted  in 
antibodies  to  gp53  and  gp48. 

Down  the  road,  the  scientists  hope 
to  speed  the  diagnostic  process  to  a 
few  hours'  time.  Meanwhile,  they 
say  they  may  be  able  to  use  the  viral 
proteins  to  pinpoint  the  elusive 
carriers  in  large  herds. 

"We  could  inject  a  rabbit  with  a 
recombinant  protein  like  gp53  or  gp48 
and  use  the  rabbit  antibodies  against 
that  protein  to  test  the  blood  sample 
from  an  infected  carrier,"  says  Kwang. 
"If  the  rabbit  antibodies  reacted  to  the 
gp53  or  gp48  protein  in  the  blood,  it 
would  mean  the  virus  is  present  in  the 
suspected  earner's  blood." 

Internal  problems  of  a  more  tangible 
type — parasites — are  engrossing 
microbiologist  Louis  C.  Gasbane  and 
animal  scientist  Andrew  C.  Hammond. 
Hammond  is  research  leader  at  the 
ARS  Subtropical  Agricultural  Re- 
search Station  at  Brooksville,  Florida, 
while  Gasbarre  works  at  ARS'  Hel- 
minthic Diseases  Laboratory  at 
Beltsville,  Maryland. 

The  two  researchers  are  cooperat- 
ing on  studies  of  how  possible 
genetic  differences  among  cattle 
affect  their  natural  ability  to  resist 
parasite  infection. 


One  of  their  chief  research  tools  is  a 
unique  herd  of  Angus  cattle  known  as 
the  Wye  Herd  and  owned  by  the 
University  of  Maryland.  Once  held  by 
a  private  owner  on  Maryland's  Eastern 
Shore,  this  closed  herd  has  been  so 
carefully  developed  that  its  genetic 
makeup  is  very  well  defined. 

From  1986  to  1988,  the  researchers 
monitored  every  calf  born  in  the  Wye 
herd  for  parasite  infection.  Although 
most  calves'  natural  defenses  against 
internal  parasites  began  working  by  a 
certain  age,  some  animals  continued 
to  have  unusually  high  numbers  of 
parasites. 

"We  estimate  15  percent  of  the  calf 
population  is  responsible  for  80  percent 
of  parasite  transmission,"  says  Gas- 
barre. "About  50  percent  of  the  calves 
we  studied  had  under  100  parasite  eggs 
per  gram  of  feces,  and  about  80  percent 
had  under  200  eggs  per  gi^am.  But  a  few 
had  well  over  1 ,000  eggs  per  gram." 

By  studying  the  calves'  "family 
tree,"  the  researchers  have  found  strong 


KEITH  WELLER 


Microbiologist  Hwei-Sing  Kwang  and 
summer  intern  Aida  Boghossian  examine 
recombinant  proteins  to  detect  antibodies 
to  bovine  viral  diarrhea.  (K-4383-18) 


indications  that  the  genetics  of  the  sire 
heavily  influence  the  calf  s  chances  of 
increased  parasite  infection. 

"This  trait  is  about  one-third  geneti- 
cally controlled,"  Gasbarre  says.  One 
immediate  suspect  in  the  transmission 
of  this  trait  is  a  specific  complex  of 
genes  responsible  for  an  animal's 
natural  internal  defenses  against  threats 
ranging  from  tumors  to  allergies. 

The  researchers  have  classified  the 
Wye  Angus  by  their  combinations  of 
these  crucial  genes,  known  as  BoLA 
for  bovine  lymphocyte  antigens. 

Selective  breedings  done  with  the 
Angus  at  Brooksville  and  at  the  Wye 
Research  and  Education  Center  at  the 
University  of  Maryland  have  demon- 
strated little  correlation  between  the 
sire's  BoLA  and  parasite  infection 
levels  of  its  offspring.  However,  those 
experiments  have  verified  that  the  sire 
strongly  influences  parasite  levels. 

"We're  absolutely  convinced  that 
there's  a  strong  genetic  effect  in- 
volved in  parasite  resistance,  but  it's 
not  strictly  from  the  BoLA  genes," 
Gasbarre  says.  "It's  other  genes 
from  the  sire." 

Ultimately,  the  scientists  hope  to 
discover  differences  at  the  cellular 
level  that  control  whether  a  beef 
animal  is  more  likely  to  have  heavy 
parasite  infection. 

"Once  we  know  that  difference,  we 
can  look  for  some  sort  of  marker,"  says 
Gasbarre.  "The  marker  may  not  be 
actually  responsible  for  the  trait,  but  it 
would  be  something  you  could  check 
for  in  a  calf.  Then  you  might  treat 
those  animals  more  intensively,  or  even 
remove  them  from  the  herd."  — By 
Sandy  Miller  Hays,  Linda  Cooke, 
and  Julie  Corliss,  ARS. 

For  addresses  and  telephone 
numbers  of  ARS  scientists  mentioned  in 
this  article,  please  contact  the  Editor, 
Bldg.  005,  BARC-West,  ]0300  Balti- 
more Ave.,  Beltsville,  MD  20705. 
Phone  (30])  344-3280.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


13 


Cattle  and  Sheep  Together:  Partners  in  Grazing 


Cattle  ranchers  and  sheep 
producers — their  disputes 
are  the  heart  of  Old  West 
legends  and  more  than  a  few  Holly- 
wood epics.  Now  research  has 
confirmed  the  foolishness  of  their 
long-ago  fights  and  fears. 

"Cattle,  sheep,  and  even  goats 
complement  one  another  on  rangeland," 
says  range  animal  scientist  Dean  M. 
Anderson,  based  at  the  ARS  Range 
Management  Research  Unit  at  Las 
Cmces,  New  Mexico. 

"Not  only  have  we  found  the  three 
species  make  better  use  of  rangeland 
because  they  eat  different  plants.  We 
also  discovered  that  if  sheep  and 
goats  learn  at  an  early  age  to  stay 
with  cattle,  the  cattle's  presence 
protects  the  smaller  animals  from 
coyote  predation." 

Sheep  and  cattle  grazing  together 
normally  don't  associate  with  each 
other.  But  if  the  two  animal  species  are 


introduced  soon  after  the  lambs  are 
weaned,  that  behavior  changes. 

"Then,  lambs  form  a  close  social 
bond  and  develop  an  impelling  need 
to  be  close  to  cattle  as  they  move 
about  on  the  open  range,"  says 
animal  physiologist  Clarence  V. 
Hulet,  recently  retired  from  the  Las 
Cruces lab. 

The  ARS  scientists  found  that 
enduring  social  bonds  were  formed 
when  45-  to  90-day-old  lambs  were 
penned  with  docile  yearling  heifers 
for  30  to  60  days.  The  two  species 
then  freely  intermingled  as  they 
roamed  pastures  on  the  agency's 
193, 000- acre  Jornada  Experimental 
Range  near  Las  Cruces. 

Hulet  and  Anderson  point  out  that 
coexistence  is  nothing  new  in  the 
animal  kingdom.  Various  animals 
have  shared  feed  in  the  same  area  for 
centuries.  For  example,  this  type  of 
grazing  still  exists  today  on  the 


natural  grassland  ecosystem  of  the 
Serengeti  in  Tanzania  and  Kenya  in 
east  Africa  among  wildlife  such  as 
gazelles  and  zebras. 

The  ARS  behavior-oriented  grazing 
research  adds  a  new  twist  to  studies 
begun  in  the  1920' s  by  the  Texas  A&M 
University  Research  Station  at  Sonora, 
Texas.  In  the  1950' s  and  I960' s, 
studies  of  cattle,  sheep,  goats — and 
later  deer — showed  all  the  species  do 
well  together  on  shared  range. 

The  scientists  at  Las  Cruces  have 
confirmed  the  dietary  differences  of 
these  livestock — that  cattle  eat  mainly 
grasses,  while  sheep  and  goats  prefer 
broadleaf  plants  such  as  forbs  and 
leaves  from  some  small  shrubs. 

The  Jornada  research  team  is  now 
studying  a  shrub  called  tarbush,  one  of 
four  woody  plant  species  ranchers  had 
previously  wanted  to  eliminate  com- 
pletely from  then-  ranges  to  make  room 
for  forage  grasses. 


14 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


"Our  cLiiTcnt  research  is  aimed  at 
understanding  why  some  plants  are 
palatable  to  livestock  while  others  are 
ignored,"  says  Kris  M.  Havstad. 
research  leader  and  range  scientist. 

He  and  fellow  researchers  found 
livestock  would  eat  up  to  99  percent  of 
newly  formed  leaves  on  some  tarbush 
plants,  while  leaving  other  tarbush 
plants  untouched. 

This  variability  suggests  some 
element  in  the  plant  attracts  or  repels 
grazing  animals.  The  researchers  think 
plants  have  specific  chemical  signa- 
tures that  are  recognized  by  an  animal 
and  directly  affect  palatability.  They 
have  begun  detailed  analyses  of 
tarbush  plant  components. 

"If  we  can  determine  how  to  safely 
increase  the  use  of  previously  unused 
woody  species,  including  honey 
mesquite.  creosotebush.  and  broom 
snakeweed,  we  could  tap  an  unused 
range  resource,"  says  Havstad.  "Live- 
stock grazing  can  be  a  tool  to  restore 
biological  diversity  without  harmful 
environmental  effects. 

"It  may  be  possible  to  condition 
young  animals  to  include  these 
plants  in  their  diets,  in  much  the 
same  way  we  condition  sheep  and 
cattle  to  graze  together." 

A  similar  study  in  Idaho's  upper 
Snake  River  plain  also  points  up  the 
potential  benefits  of  multispecies  grazing. 

There,  sheep  nibble  on  forbs  like 
arrow  leaf  balsam  root,  which  sports 
bright  yellow  flowers,  and  the  purple- 
blossomed  hawksbeard.  Meanwhile, 
cattle  on  the  same  pastures  feast  on 
bunch  grasses  such  as  bluebunch 
wheatgrass  and  speargrass. 

"Cattle  alone  tend  to  graze  grasses," 
says  John  W.  Walker,  a  range  scientist 
with  the  ARS  Range  Sheep  Production 
Efficiency  Research  Unit  in  Dubois. 
Idaho.  "But  turning  out  a  combination 
of  animals  to  graze  together  helps 
preserve  the  area's  natural  diversity.  If 
you  put  out  just  cattle  that  tend  to 
prefer  grass,  the  grass  gets  grazed  year 


JOHN  STUMBOS 


Healthy  vegetation  along  Big  Grizzly  Creek 
in  the  Plumas  National  Forest.  (K-4385-6) 


after  year,  and  that  hurts  its  ability  to 
compete  with  the  other  plant  species, 
reproduce,  and  maintain  itself  in  the 
plant  community." 

"With  multi-species  grazing,  you 
evenly  defoliate  the  forage  species  in 
the  area,  and  their  ability  to  compete 
for  water  and  nutrients  is  more  nearly 
equal,"  he  says. 

Early  results  from  field  studies 
suggest  that  lambs  especially  benefit 
from  such  an  arrangement,  since  they 
gain  slightly  more  weight  when  grazing 
with  cattle  than  when  grazing  with 
sheep  alone.  Researchers  think  that's 
because  there  is  less  competition  for  the 
lambs'  preferred  plant  species. 

In  California's  Sierra  Nevada 
mountains,  researchers  have  focused 
on  harmoniously  blending  livestock 
with  nature. 

They  are  studying  a  meadow  that 
adjoins  Big  Grizzly  Creek  in  the 
Plumas  National  Forest  on  the  Califor- 
nia-Nevada border,  not  far  from  Reno 
and  Lake  Tahoe,  the  site  of  a  4-year 


JOHN  STUMBOS 


Study  site  shows  etlect  ol  heavy  grazuig  on 
streamside  meadows.  (K-4385-12) 


study.  Here,  Nebraska  sedge,  tufted 
hairgrass,  and  baltic  rush  cover  the 
floors  of  high  mountain  meadows, 
providing  sustenance  for  cattle  that 
graze  the  meadows  periodically 
throughout  the  summer. 

It's  an  ideal  setting  to  measure 
the  cycling  of  water  and  nutrients  in 
mountain  meadows  and  streams  and 
to  see  how  cattle  grazing  influences 
these  cycles. 

Of  special  interest  in  this  study  is 
the  riparian  zone,  the  span  of  lush, 
green  vegetation  alongside  streams 
and  other  waterways. 

"Riparian  zones  are  important  for 
lots  of  reasons — water  quality  and 
quantity,  forage  production,  and 
wildlife  habitat,"  says  Gregg  M. 
Riegel,  a  range  scientist  with  the  ARS 
Landscape  Ecology  of  Rangelands 
Research  unit  in  Reno,  Nevada. 

The  ARS  project,  which  began  in 
the  spring  of  1989,  calls  for  extensive 
studies  of  the  meadow's  soil,  water, 
and  plants.  The  researchers  are 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


15 


looking  at  how  these  are  affected  when 
a  meadow  is  lightly  grazed,  moderately 
grazed,  or  left  ungrazed. 

When  cattle  graze,  they  consume 
nutrients  like  nitrogen  and  phosphorus 
that  are  stored  in  the  plants.  The 
animals'  bodies  convert  these  nutrients 
to  muscle  tissue — the  steak  or  ham- 
burger that  ends  up  in  supermarkets. 

The  scientists  are  measuring  soil 
nutrients,  plant  growth,  and  water 
table  changes  near  the  stream,  in  the 
middle  of  the  meadow,  and  near  the 
edge  of  the  forest. 

"We  feel  that  a  better  understanding 
of  how  these  ecosystems  work  will 
help  in  future  resource  management 
decisions,"  says  range  scientist  Tony  J. 
Svejcar,  one  of  the  project's  initiators. 
Formerly  at  the  Reno  research  station, 
he  is  now  research  leader  at  the  ARS 


Range  and  Meadow  Forage  Manage- 
ment Research  Unit  in  Bums,  Oregon. 

The  early  data  hasn't  shown  any 
striking  differences  among  any  of  the 
different  grazing  treatments.  But  the 
scientists  have  analyzed  only  a  year's 
data  thus  far. 

"One  interesting  finding  was  that  the 
meadow  contained  a  clay  mineral 
called  smectite,"  says  Robert  R.  Blank, 
a  soil  scientist  with  the  Reno  lab. 

"The  mountain  meadow  isn't  a 
typical  environment  for  smectite  to 
form  in.  A  more  arid  setting  would  be 
more  usual — an  environment  with  a 
strong  seasonal  dry  period  and  a  more 
alkaUne  soil." 

Because  it  sloughs  easily,  smectite 
may  be  more  sensitive  to  the  hooves  of 
trampling  cattle  near  the  stream,  he 
notes. — By  Dennis  Senft  and  Julie 
Corliss,  ARS. 


Dean  M.  Anderson  and  Kris  M. 
Havstad  are  at  the  USDA-ARS  Jornada 
Experimental  Range,  P.O.  Box  30003, 
Dept.  3JER,  New  Mexico  State  Univer- 
sity, Las  Cruces,  NM  88003-0003. 
Phone  (505)  646-4842.  John  Walker  is 
at  the  USDA-ARS  Range  Sheep  Pro- 
duction Efficiency  Research  Unit,  U.S. 
Sheep  Experiment  Station,  Dubois,  ID 
83423.  Phone  (208)  374-5306.  Gregg 
M.  Riegel  and  Robert  R.  Blank  are  at 
the  USDA-ARS  landscape  Ecology  of 
Rangelands  Research  Unit,  920  Valley 
Rd,  Room  25,  Reno,  NV,  89512. 
Phone  (702)  784-6057.  Tony  J  Svejcar 
is  at  the  USDA-ARS  Range  and  Mead- 
ow Forage  Research  Unit,  Squaw  Butte 
Experiment  Station,  Star  Rte.  1,  451 
Hwy  205,  Bums,  OR  97720.  Phone 
(503)573-2064.  ♦ 


JOHN  STUMBOS 


Range  scientist  Gregg  Riegel  checks  voltage  of  electric  fence  that  keeps  cattle  in  specific  research  plots.  (K-4384-6) 


16 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


Animal  Care  Tightly  Regulated 


When  it  comes  to  protect- 
ing animals  used  in 
research,  be  they  rats  or 
cattle,  the  Agricultural  Research 
Service  goes  the  federal  guidelines 
one  better. 

The  Animal  Welfare  Act  spells 
out  rules  for  care  and  use  of  many 
types  of  animals  in  research.  How- 
ever, those  rules  do  not  cover  labora- 
tory rats  and  mice  or  agricultural 
animals  used  for  production  research. 

But  in  ARS.  "we  cover  all 
vertebrate  animals,  including  fish," 
emphasizes  Helene  N.  Guttman, 
Animal  Care  Coordinator  for  the 
ARS  National  Program  Staff.  "And 
that's  not  just  ARS-owned  animals, 
but  also  other  animals  used  on  ARS 
property,  as  well  as  animals  in 
studies  funded  by  ARS  but  done  by 
ARS  cooperators  at  their  facilities." 

Under  ARS  regulations,  an 
Institutional  Animal  Care  and  Use 
Committee  (lACUC)  of  at  least  five 
members  must  approve  each  indi- 
vidual experiment  that  uses  animals 
at  any  ARS  location,  regardless  of 
the  source  of  funds  for  that  research. 

In  addition,  lACUC  approval  is 
required  at  non-ARS  locations  using 
ARS  animals  or  ARS  personnel,  again 
regardless  of  the  funding  source. 

This  approval  must  be  obtained 
before  the  experiment  is  begun — a 
process  known  as  "protocol  review." 

Protocols  are  approved  for  no 
more  than  1 2  months,  so  any 
experiment  that  continues  for  more 
than  a  year  must  be  reviewed  again 
at  least  annually. 

The  lACUC  must  include  at  least 
one  doctor  of  veterinary  medicine 
with  training  or  experience  in  the 
species  to  be  used  in  the  experiment 
and  one  scientist  who  has  experi- 
ence in  and  is  currently  active  in 
research  involving  animals. 


Also  required  for  the  committee 
are  one  nonscientist,  such  as  from 
businesses  or  the  clergy,  and  one 
person  who  is  not  affiliated  with 
ARS  in  any  way  other  than  as  a 
member  of  the  committee. 

At  these  protocol  reviews,  the 
proposed  experiments  must  survive 
close  scrutiny,  says  Guttman. 

"We  ask  questions  such  as,  is  this 
the  appropriate  species  to  use  for  this 
experiment?  Is  this  an  appropriate 
number  of  animals?"  she  explains. 

"We  also  ask  whether  there  are  any 
verified  nonintact  animal  methods. 


Problems  must  be  cor- 
rected quickly,  and  if  the 
problem  affects  animal 
health,  the  animal  is 
removed  from  the  non- 
conforming facility. 


such  as  tissue  culture  or  computer 
modeling,  that  would  give  the  needed 
answers  to  the  same  scientific  questions." 

Other  key  considerations  include 
the  training  of  the  people  who  will 
perform  the  experiments  and  whether 
the  best  procedures  have  been 
selected  to  minimize  pain  or  distress 
to  the  research  animal. 

In  addition  to  the  protocol  re- 
views, the  lACUC  inspects  all 
animal  facilities  at  least  once  every  6 
months.  Included  in  these  inspec- 
tions are  facilities  belonging  to  ARS, 
those  used  by  tenant  agencies  on 
ARS  property,  satellite  facilities,  and 
any  indoor  study  areas  where  ani- 
mals are  held  for  more  than  12  hours. 


These  inspections  help  ensure  that 
no  substantial  change  has  been  made 
in  the  experiment's  approved  proce- 
dures without  lACUC  approval  of  an 
amended  protocol. 

The  lACUC  prepares  annual 
reports  of  animal  use,  signed  by  the 
lACUC  chairperson  and  the  veteri- 
narian member.  These  reports  go  to 
the  highest-placed  person  on  the 
research  location,  to  Guttman  as 
ARS  Animal  Care  Coordinator,  to 
the  director  of  the  ARS  administra- 
tive area  where  the  research  is  being 
conducted,  and,  in  the  case  of 
animals  covered  by  the  federal 
Animal  Welfare  Act,  to  other  appro- 
priate USDA  authorities. 

The  lACUC  also  promptly  investi- 
gates any  complaints  of  animal  abuse, 
noncomformance  with  an  approved 
protocol,  or  noncompliance  with  ARS 
animal  care  and  use  rules.  Problems 
must  be  corrected  quickly,  and  if  the 
problem  affects  animal  health,  the 
animal  is  removed  from  the  noncon- 
forming facility,  Guttman  says. 

"In  our  animal  research,  we 
emphasize  the  "3  R's,"  she  adds. 
"Refine  procedures  to  minimize 
animal  pain  or  distress,  reduce  the 
number  of  animals  to  the  minimum 
required  for  the  experiment  to  be 
statistically  meaningful,  and  when- 
ever possible,  replace  animals  with 
those  lower  in  the  evolutionary  scale 
or  with  proven  procedures  that  do  not 
require  the  use  of  a  live  animal." — By 
Sandy  Miller  Hays,  ARS. 

Helene  N.  Guttman  is  the  Animal 
Care  Coordinator  for  the  USDA-ARS 
National  Program  Staff,  Room  105, 
Bldg.  002,  BARC-W,  10300  Balti- 
more Ave.,  Beltsville,  MD  20705- 
2350.  Phone  (301 )  344-3423.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


17 


Cattle  Drives 

Hard  Times  in  the  Old  West 


Sickening  headaches,  blisters  and 
boils,  lost  mail,  lost  food,  lost 
patience,  and  a  multitude  of 
vexatious  flies:  no,  this  wasn't  a  camping 
trip  gone  awry,  but  that  most  romantic  of 
cowboy  adventures,  the  cattle  drive. 

As  many  a  staiTy-eyed  young  cow- 
poke  soon  discovered,  there  was  little 
romance  to  the  real  thing — although 
perhaps  more  than  in  today's  rumbling 
ride  of  a  few  hours  up  interstate  highways 
in  a  tractor-trailer  rig. 

For  starters,  the  old  method  wasn't 
really  so  much  a  cattle  drive  as  a  cattle 
walk,  the  idea  being  to  move  the  animals 
to  the  far  end  of  the  trail  without  running 
too  much  "condition"  off  them.  So  as 
the  working  hours  from  dawn  to  dusk 
crawled  by,  a  herd  might  step  off  only 
12  to  15  miles  a  day. 

Still,  the  era  of  the  cattle  drive  was  a 
sort  of  race  against  time.  As  the 
railroads  spun  their  web  across  the 
West,  the  need  to  march  cattle  to 
distant  railheads  evaporated.  In  all, 
cattle  drives  boomed  for  only  about  20 
years,  from  the  end  of  the  Civil  War  to 
the  mid- 1 880' s. 


For  most  ranches,  the  cattle  drive 
was  an  annual  affair.  Frequently 
beginning  in  April  or  May,  when  grass 
and  water  were  reasonably  plentiful, 
some  500  to  2,000  cattle  of  all  ages 
would  be  rounded  up  from  around  the 
ranch  and  sent  trudging  toward  locales 
such  as  Sedalia,  Missouri,  or,  after 
1867,  Abilene,  Kansas. 

The  railhead  towns,  with  their 
droves  of  cattle  buyers  waiting  to  deal, 
weren't  always  the  destination.  Some 
animals,  particularly  along  the  Good- 
night-Loving Trail  [see  map],  were 
sold  to  government  agencies  for 


CATTLE  MM  REAI  TIlS! 

Great  Inducements  to  those  who  wish  to 

Ship  Cattle  on  tli&  U,  P,  Railroad!! 

Having  entered  into  special  arrangements  with 
the  U.  P.  R.  R.  Company,  by  which  I  can  ship  Cattle 
East  at  greatly  reduced  rates,  and  having  selected 
a  point  between  Carter  and  Church  Buttes  Stations 
some  ten  miles  East  of  the  former  place,  near  the 
junction  of  the  Big  and  Little  Muddies,  and  having 
Constructed  Commodious  Lots  and  Extensive  En- 
closures, and  the  Company  having  put  in  a  Switch 
capable  of  holding  40  Cars.  I  will  be  Prepared  to 
Commence  Shipping  on  or  before  the  16th  of  the 
Present  Month,  and  will  be  able  to  promptly  ship  any 
Number  of  catt'e  that  may  be  Offered. 


allocation  to  Indians.  Others  were 
"seed  stock"  destined  for  secondary 
ranches  in  Montana  and  Wyoming. 

The  men  nudging  the  herd  on  its 
way  were  not  necessarily  workers  from 
the  ranch  that  owned  the  stock.  Often, 
professional  trail  hands  escorted  the  herd. 

The  ratio  of  men  to  animals  varied 
widely,  sometimes  stretching  to  just 
one  man  per  400  head.  But  the  team's 
composition  was  fairly  constant.  Aside 
from  the  trail  boss,  who  rode  ahead  of 
the  herd  to  scout  out  fresh  grass  and 
water,  there  were  point  men  to  lead  the 
herd;  swing  riders  alongside  the  herd 
toward  the  front;  flank  riders  keeping 
an  eye  on  the  sides  toward  the  back; 
and  a  few  poor  souls  riding  drag,  keeping 
tabs  on  stragglers  and  eating  a  nauseat- 
ing amount  of  dust  in  the  process. 

Rounding  out  the  team  were  the 
wrangler,  in  charge  of  the  horse  herd, 
or  remuda;  the  cook  with  his  chuck- 
wagon;  and  perhaps  another  driver  and 
wagon  hauUng  supplies  or  tools. 

Another  important  team  member 
was  the  lead  steer,  which  walked  at  the 
head  of  the  herd,  encouraging  the 


18 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


others  to  follow.  While 
many  lead  steers  round  only 
the  slaughterhouse  waiting  at 
the  end  of  the  line,  a  few  were 
recaiited  for  repeat  journeys. 
One  such  creature  was  Texas 
cattle  king  Charles  Goodnight' s 
Old  Blue,  which  made  the  trip  to 
Dodge  City.  Kansas.  8  times,  luring 
some  10.000  head  up  the  trail  to  the 
tune  of  the  bell  he  wore  around  his  neck. 

If  a  cowboy  survived  the  2  to  3 
months  of  sudden  hailstorms,  freakish 
lightning  strikes,  stampedes  (one  near 
Texas"  Brazos  River  in  July  1 876 
claimed  2,000  animals),  thirst  that 
could  turn  cattle  blind  and  wild,  and 
the  gnawing  knowledge  that  the  trail 
boss'  main  concern  was  the  cows  and 
not  the  cowboys — he  could  collect 
$100  in  wages,  hardly  a  princely  sum 
even  in  the  late  1800's. 

There  must  have  been  quite  a  few 
takers,  though.  From  1867  through 
1881.  trail  bosses  found  enough 
willing  hands  to  herd  more  than  4 
million  beef  cattle  up  the  trail  out  of 
Texas  to  the  northern  railheads . — By 
Sandy  Miller  Hays,  ARS.  ♦ 


MT 


IFORT  BUFORD 
"  ND 


MILES  CITY 


MN 


WY 


DENVERl 

CO] 

PUEBLOl 


SD 


NE 

DGALLALA  . 


ELLSWORTH 
ABILEHE 


/CHPAGO 


;ST.  LOUIS 


^HOUSTON  1, 
'VICTORIA 
/  CORPUS  CHRISTI 


Rail  Road 

Shawnee  Trail  , 

Chisliolm  Trail , 

Western  Trail  , 

Goodnight- 
Loving  Trail 


H  BROWNSVILLE 


Facing  page:  Cattle  roundup 
near  Gallatin  Valley,  Montana 
in  1941.  USDA  photo. 
At  left:  Loading  cattle  cars 
near  Dickinson,  North  Dakota 
about  1898.  Photo  contributed 
by  the  State  Historical  Society 
of  North  Dakota 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


19 


Infants  To  Benefit  From  Golden  Eggs 


In  a  deep  freeze  at  the  Children's 
Nutrition  Research  Center  in 
Houston,  Texas,  He  the  remains  of 
the  hen  that  laid  "golden"  eggs. 
Her  23  eggs — also  in  the  deep  freeze — 
cost  $1,300  each  to  produce.  This  is  no 
fairy  tale;  it's  real  science.  And  the 
findings  from  this  small  study  will  be 
priceless  to  future  research  everywhere. 

Nearly  99  percent  of  the  carbon  on 
Earth  has  an  atomic  weight  of  12 — 
except  in  this  hen  and  her  eggs.  They 
have  about  65  percent  of  the  heavier 
nonradioactive  isotope — 13C.  That's 
because  this  hen's  diet  was  a  lot  more 
than  chicken  feed.  It  contained 
$30,000  worth  of  an  alga  in  which 
virtually  all  the  carbon  was  13C. 

Researchers  in  the  Center's  Stable 
Isotope  Laboratory  are  testing  the 
feasibility  of  using  the  alga,  Spindina, 
to  determine  which  amino  acids  are 
essential  for  infants — those  that  need  to 
be  gotten  from  the  diet  because  the 
body  doesn't  make  them — and  under 
what  conditions  a  nonessential  amino 
acid  may  need  to  be  in  the  diet. 

If  you  think  science  already  knows 
this,  consider  the  findings  with  this 
hen.  During  her  last  4  weeks,  she  got 
regular  feed  plus  the  13C-labeled  alga, 
which  contains  all  the  amino  acids. 
Chicken  experts  have  long  believed 
that  the  amino  acid  proline  is  nonessen- 
tial— that  it  can  be  made  by  chicks. 
But  most  of  the  proUne  in  the  hen's 
tissues  contained  all  13C  atoms.  The 
same  was  true  for  the  proline  she  put  in 
the  egg  whites. 

That  meant  the  proline  had  come 
straight  from  the  feed  rather  than 
undergoing  breakdown  and  reassembly 
in  the  hen's  liver,  says  Heiner  K. 
Berthold,  a  visiting  scientist  supported 
by  the  German  Research  Society. 

"This  strongly  implies  that  proline  is 
an  essential  amino  acid  for  the  hen — at 
least  under  our  experimental  condi- 
tions." Berthold  spent  the  last  2  years 
in  Houston  studying  the  priceless 


chicken  and  her  eggs.  [His  findings 
were  published  last  September  in  the 
Proceedings  of  die  Nadonal  Academy 
of  Science.] 

Not  only  is  this  method  much 
more  sensitive  than  standard  meth- 
ods for  determining  the  essentiality 
of  amino  acids,  he  says,  "you  can 
measure  all  1 8  amino  acids  in  one 
study."  So  far,  Berthold  and  col- 
leagues have  developed  the  analyses 
for  measuring  at  least  14  of  them. 


MARTEK  CORPORATION 


SpiruUna  alga  grown  in  a  high  carbon 
13  environment. 


The  classic  method  of  determining 
essentiality  is  to  leave  a  single  amino 
acid  out  of  the  diet,  he  says.  "You  may 
trigger  effects  not  directly  related  to 
that  nutrient,  or  you  may  not  see  effects 
for  weeks." 

Obviously,  such  a  study  is  not 
appropriate  on  infants,  and  there's  still 
some  debate  as  to  whether  infants  can 
make  enough  of  their  own  proline, 
arginine,  and  glycine  when  these  amino 
acids  aren't  supplied  in  their  diet. 


"We  know  certain  amino  acids  are 
essential.  And  there's  a  group  that  is 
conditionally  essential:  they  are  not 
made  under  certain  circumstances.  But 
we  don't  know  the  circumstances 
exactly,"  explains  Berthold,  a  physician 
and  clinical  pharmacologist.  "This 
method  could  be  used  to  determine 
exactly  which  amino  acids  need  to  be 
supplied  by  the  diet  during  periods  of 
development  and  growth  or  in 
relation  to  the  infant's  calorie  in- 
take." Infant  formula  makers  could 
then  fine-tune  their  products  to  the 
precise  needs  of  infants  during  the 
first  few  months  of  life. 

Before  they  attempted  to  use  the 
method  on  infants,  Berthold  and 
colleagues  tested  it  on  adults.  Four 
women  took  a  dose  of  the  uniformly 
labeled  alga,  then  ate  regular  foods 
throughout  the  day  to  simulate  normal 
eating.  In  a  second  experiment,  they 
fasted  for  36  hours  while  consuming 
the  alga  to  see  if  their  livers  had  kicked 
in  to  produce  the  amino  acids  they 
didn't  get  from  foods.  Sure  enough, 
they  synthesized  a  larger  proportion  of 
several  amino  acids  during  fasting  than 
they  did  during  a  day  of  normal  eating. 

The  researchers  focused  on  a  protein 
found  in  very-low-density  lipoprotein 
(VLDL) — the  tiny  globule  that  carries 
the  bulk  of  fat  circulating  in  the  blood. 
Since  this  protein,  B-lOO,  has  a  short 
half-life — only  a  couple  of  hours — 
researchers  can  watch  it  come  and  go  in 
under  8  hours. 

Such  a  study  can  do  far  more  than 
prove  whether  or  not  an  infant  can 
make  an  amino  acid.  It  can  show  the 
degree  and  rate  of  absorption  of  amino 
acids  as  well  as  their  metabolism.- 

For  instance,  after  one  subject 
consumed  the  dose  of  labeled  alga,  the 
13C-labeled  amino  acids  started 
appearing  in  blood  plasma  within  a  few 
minutes,  peaking  1  hour  later.  And 
they  began  to  be  incorporated  in  the  B- 


20 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


100  protein  within  40  minutes,  peaking 
in  3  hours,  says  Berthold. 

Using  a  uniformly  labeled  food 
source  is  like  attaching  a  microscopic 
video  camera  to  each  amino  acid  and 
following  its  travels  through  the  body. 
What's  more,  since  all  compounds  in 
the  alga  are  built  on  a  backbone  of 
13C,  researchers  can  study  the  fate  of 
fatty  acids,  sugars,  nucleic  acids  that 
make  up  DNA.  and  any  other  carbon- 
containing  compounds. 

A  meal  of  Spinilino  may  not  be 
considered  haute  cuisine,  but  it's  a 
major  source  of  protein  in  some  parts 
of  the  world,  says  Berthold.  Farmers 
in  Africa  and  Mexico  grow  the  alga  in 
ponds,  then  dry  out  the  ponds  to 
harvest  it.  "It  has  an  amino  acid  profile 
very  similar  to  egg  white,"  he  notes. 

The  labeled  Spirulina,  however,  was 
grown  in  a  closed  system  by  Martek,  a 
company  in  Columbia,  Maryland, 
specializing  in  algal  products  for 
research  applications.  All  the  carbon 
dioxide  piped  into  the  system  contains 
the  heavier  13C,  says  Peter  Klein,  who 
initiated  the  research  with  Spirulina 
and  heads  the  Stable  Isotope  Laborato- 
ry. As  a  result,  the  proteins,  fats, 
carbohydrates,  and  other  organic 
compounds  are  uniformly  labeled  with 
13C.  Well. ..almost  uniformly.  About 
3  percent  of  the  carbon  is  the  ubiqui- 
tous I2C,  which  slipped  into  the 
system  unnoticed. 

As  for  the  hen  and  her  23  golden 
eggs,  they  won't  go  to  waste.  They 
can  be  used  just  like  the  alga  in  future 
studies.  But  for  now,  they've  proved 
that  a  uniformly  labeled  food  source 
can  be  a  powerful  scientific  tool. — By 
Judy  McBride,  ARS. 

Heiner  K.  Berthold  and  Peter  D. 
Klein  are  at  the  USDA-ARS  Children 's 
Nutrition  Research  Center,  J 1 00  Bates 
Street,  Houston,  TX  77030.  Phone 
(713)798-7000.  ♦ 


DAVID  NANCE 


Physician  and  clinical  pharmacologist  Heiner  Berthold  uses  the  carbon  13  method  to  study 
amino  acids  at  ARS'  Children's  Nutrition  Research  Center.  (K-4397-1) 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


21 


The  future  looks  bleak  for  worms 
that  ravage  cotton.  But  it  looks 
bright  for  growers  weary  of 
spending  $70  million  or  more  a  year  on 
caterpillai"  insecticide.  In  a  few  yeai's, 
they  could  get  wormproof  cotton 
varieties  with  a  gene-engineered  punch 
borrowed  from  bacteria. 

Scientists  at  the  Agricultural  Re- 
search Service  have  just  gathered  the 
second  harvest  from  cotton  plants  with 
the  new  genes.  They're  exploring 
ways  to  ensure  the  plants  will  be  no 
flash  in  the  pan. 

Scientists  at  Monsanto  Co.  in  St. 
Louis  inserted  the  new  genes,  originally 
from  the  bacterium  Bacillus  thuringien- 
sis,  or  Bt.  It  has  been  sold  for  30  years 
as  a  natural  control  for  caterpillars  in 
crop  fields,  gardens,  and  forests.  Bt 
makes  a  protein  that  starves  a  pest  by 
paralyzing  its  digestive  tract. 

Similar  proteins  are  made  by  the 
new  plants,  called  transgenic  since  they 
hold  genes  transferred  from  a  different 
type  of  organism.  The  plants  all  but 
wiped  out  tobacco  budworms,  cotton 
bollworms,  pink  bollworms,  and  other 
caterpillars  in  outdoor  tests  at  seven 
sites  in  1990  and  six  sites  in  1991.  In 
1990,  damage  to  Bt  cotton  plants  was 
sometimes  less  than  1  percent,  less 
than  regular  plants  sprayed  with 
chemicals.  This  year  was  a 
replay,  say  David  Altman, 
Johnie  Jenkins,  and  Doug 
Wilson  of  ARS. 

In  Arizona,  "pink 
boUworm  larvae  started  to 


DAVID  NANCE 


Geneticist  Johnie  Jenkins  inspects  healthy 
cotton  bolls  in  a  plot  of  Bt  transgenic  plants 
that  were  intentionally  exposed 
to  tobacco  budworms. 
Green  plants  in 
background  are  worm- 
damaged 

nontransgenic  plants 
which  have  failed  to 
mature  bolls. 
(K-4372-13) 


feed  on  flowers  but  quit  and  died  when 
they  were  still  so  small  you  could 
barely  see  them,"  says  Wilson.  He 
heads  ARS  Cotton  and  Insect  Genetics 
Research  at  the  Western  Cotton 
Research  Laboratory  in  Phoenix. 

ARS  tested  the  plants  under  a 
cooperative  agreement  with  Monsan- 
to. "The  company  came  to  ARS 
because  they  wanted  an  unbiased 
referee  and  we  have  three  decades  of 
experience  studying  insect  resistance 
in  cotton  plants,"  says  Jenkins, 
director  of  the  Crop  Science  Re- 
search Laboratory,  Starkville, 
Mississippi. 

The  agency  also  has  expertise  in 
Bt.  Genes  in  this  year's  transgenic 
plants  originated  in  HD-1  and  HD-73 
strains  of  the  bacterium.  HD  stands 
for  Howard  Dulmage,  who  identified 
and  tested  many  Bt  strains 
during  his  ARS  career. 


Transgenic  Cotton  Scores 
Knockout  Against  Worms 


22 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


JACK  DYKINGA 


Monsanto's  Randy  Deaton  (left)  and  ARS  geneticist  Doug  Wilson  examine  an  unprotected 
cotton  plant  that  has  been  heavily  damaged  by  beet  army  worms.  (K-4374-1) 


In  1991,  more  than  120,000  Bt 
plants  from  four  transgenic  lines  were 
tested:  1990's  two  top  perfonners — 
with  HD- 1  genes — and  two  lines  with 
HD-73  genes  tested  at  all  the  sites  for 
the  tlrst  time. 


All  the  transgenics  derive  from  a 
commercial  cotton,  Coker  3 1 2.  Also 
planted  were  ordinary  Coker  3 1 2  and  a 
second,  locally  adapted  nontransgenic 
variety.  To  aid  comparisons,  scientists 
sprayed  insecticide  on  half  of  the  plots. 

ARS  ran  tests  in  Mississippi,  Texas, 
and  Arizona  in  cooperation  with 
Mississippi  State  University,  Texas 


A&M  University,  and  the  University  of 
Arizona.  Other  trials  in  Alabama, 
Texas,  and  Louisiana  were  run  by 
Monsanto,  Texas  A&M,  and  Louisiana 
State  University. 

ARS  scientists  varied  the  transgenic 
challenge:  in  Mississippi,  massive 
artificial  infestations  of  tobacco 
budworms;  in  Texas,  natural  invasions 
of  cotton  bollworms  as  well  as  tobacco 
budworms;  in  Arizona,  releases  of 
thousands  of  pink  boUworm  moths  plus 
raids  from  other  leaf-chomping  insects. 

Overall,  while  the  insect  victims' 
names  differed,  they  shared  the  same  fate. 

During  July  in  Mississippi,  Jenkins 
and  ARS  colleagues  William  L.  Parrott 
and  Jack  C.  McCarty  found  that 
tobacco  budwomis  damaged  as  many 
as  half  the  flower  buds,  or  squares,  on 
tattered  Coker  312  plants  unprotected 
by  insecticide.  Transgenic  plants  had  0 
to  less  than  7  percent  damaged  buds. 

In  Texas,  "Bt  plants  gave  almost 
complete  control  of  cotton  boll  worm 
and  tobacco  budworm.  In  unsprayed 
plants  that  didn't  have  a  Bt  gene, 
insects  took  over,"  says  Altman, 
research  geneticist  at  the  Southern 
Crops  Research  Laboratory,  College 
Station,  Texas. 

The  same  trend  doomed  pink  boll- 
worms  at  the  3 -acre  test  site  at  Maiico- 
pa.  Arizona.  There,  Doug  Wilson  and 
colleague  Hollis  Flint  released  1 ,000 
pink  bollwonn  moths  3  times  a  week 
from  mid- June  to  the  end  of  July. 

After  mating  early  in  the  season, 
females  lay  eggs  on  various  parts  of  the 
plant.  When  an  egg  hatches,  the  larva 
crawls  to  a  bud,  bores  in,  eats  pollen, 
and  spins  a  sticky  web.  The  web  keeps 
the  flower  from  blooming  properly. 
Such  rosetted  flowers  incubate  the  first 
of  as  many  as  five  generations  of  pink 
bollworms  during  the  season.  To  see 
how  successful  that 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


23 


JACK  DYKINGA 


Entomologist  Hollis  Flint  compares  an  insect  ravaged  cotton  leaf  from  a  control  variety  with 
one  that  has  been  genetically  engineered  with  a  protective  gene  from  Bacillus  thuringiensis. 
(K-4376-11) 


critical  first  generation  was,  Flint  checked 
the  percentage  of  resetted  flowers. 

In  June  and  July,  2.3  percent  of  the 
flowers  were  resetted  on  ordinary 
Coker312.  On  transgenics,  less  than 
one  in  a  thousand  flowers  were  resetted. 

"Waylaying  that  first  generation 
means  much  smaller  numbers  later," 
says  Wilson. 

"In  mid- July  we  clipped  samples  of 
green  bolls  and  incubated  them  to  see 
how  many  larvae  would  emerge.  Two 
weeks  later  we  found  1  larva  in  373 
transgenic  bolls.  The  Coker  312  had 
larvae  in  almost  one-fourth  of  the  bolls. 
In  Arizona  and  California,  that's  about 
double  the  level  at  which  the  grower 
will  get  significant  damage  unless 
something's  done — and  right  now  that 
something  is  insecticide." 

Wilson  says  the  Bt  protein  also 
halted  other  lepidopteran  insects  such 
as  cotton  leafperforators,  saltmarsh 
caterpillars,  and  beet  armyworms. 

Will  Pests  Keep  Turning 
Belly  Up  to  Bt? 

The  scientists  all  recognize  that 
"while  we  had  almost  no  damage  on 
the  Bt  plants,  they're  not  a  cure-all," 
says  Jenkins. 

"Suppose  that  out  of  a  million 
tobacco  budworms,  one  male  and  one 
female  have  genetic  resistance  that 
keeps  them  healthy  despite  the  Bt 
protein.  If  those  two  insects  find  each 
other  and  mate,  you  could  soon  have 
thousands  of  Bt-resistant  caterpillars." 

But  that  won't  happen  if  the  trans- 
genic farming  strategy  stays  focused  on 
the  real  purpose  of  pest  control. 

"The  real  goal,"  says  Jenkins,  "is  to 
kill  enough  insects,  year  to  year,  to 
keep  damage  below  a  level  that  would 
hurt  the  fanner's  pocketbook." 

Part  of  the  strategy  for  foiling 
resistance  is  making  sure  a  farmer's 
transgenic  plants  will  reliably 
express  the  Bt  protein.  That's  why 
cooperative  studies  by  ARS,  Mon- 


santo, and  university  scientists  are 
aimed  at  supplying  information  for 
breeding  dependable — as  well  as 
powerful — Bt  genes  into  high-quality 
commercial  cultivars. 

In  College  Station,  studies  by  Altman 
and  Monsanto  scientist  Eric  Sachs 
include  thousands  of  assays  of  transgen- 
ic plant  tissue — to  learn  how  well  the  Bt 
genes  are  inherited  and  how  powerfully 
they  express  the  protein. 

"The  Bt  protein  is  from  a  foreign 
gene,"  Altman  says.  "We  can't  assume 
it  will  behave  like  one  that's  been  part 
of  the  cotton  chromosome  for  thousands 
of  years.  Furthermore,  experience 
suggests  Bt  genes  will  need  help  from 
other  genes.  Otherwise,  insects  could 
develop  resistance  just  as  they  can  in 
response  to  insecticides." 

In  the  fall,  he  sent  Monsanto  seed 
from  more  than  100  painstakingly 
selected  specimens  of  brand-new 
transgenic  crossbreeds  grown  outdoors 
for  the  first  time.  At  a  Monsanto  nursery 
in  Hawaii,  the  seed  will  be  planted  to 
obtain  seed  supplies  for  outdoor  tests 
against  caterpillars  next  summer. 


The  seed  came  from  crosses  that 
Sachs  and  Altman  made  between  Bt 
plants  and  more  than  60  different  lines 
of  cotton  with  strong  natural  pest 
resistance.  Some  lines  came  from 
an  Australian  scientist;  most  origi- 
nated in  ARS'  cotton  repository  in 
College  StaUon. 

"ARS  is  a  leader  in  this  kind  of 
high-risk  breeding  research,"  says 
Altman.  "It  generally  isn't  done  by 
industry  or  universities,  with  a  few 
exceptions  like  Texas  A&M  and 
Mississippi  State  University." 

The  ARS  and  Australian  cottons 
have  high  levels  of  terpenoid  com- 
pounds toxic  to  pests;  no  nectaries — - 
sap-yielding  glands  that  occur  in 
leaves,  bracts,  and  flowers  and  supply 
energy  for  moths;  or  smooth  leaves 
and  stems  lacking  minute  hairs  that 
help  insect  eggs  sUck  to  a  plant. 

"If  the  smoothness  ti'ait,  for  example, 
halves  the  number  of  eggs  on  the  plant,  a 
Bt  protein  will  need  to  work  on  a  far 
smaller  number  of  larvae,"  says  Altman. 

Could  Bt  fiber  be  a  worrisome 
wrinkle?  Textile  mills  may  sympa- 


24 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


thize  with  a  farmer's  caterpillar 
woes,  but  they  pay  top  dollar  only  for 
top-quality  fiber  to  be  spun  into 
cotton  thread. 

"The  big  questions  are  how  many 
dollars  does  it  cost  the  farmer  to  grow  a 
bale  of  cotton,  and  what  is  the  fiber  in 
that  bale  worth  to  the  mill,"  says  Philip 
A.  Miller,  ARS  national  program  leader 
for  cotton  and  oilseed  research,  head- 
quartered in  Beltsville,  Maryland.  "Bt 
cotton  will  be  worthwhile  if  insecticide 
savings  make  the  difference  between 
those  two  dollar  figures  acceptable  or 
more  favorable." 

Scientists  at  Monsanto  and  ARS 
agree  it's  too  soon  to  draw  firm  conclu- 
sions about  Bt  cotton's  fiber  quality. 

In  1 990  at  the  Arizona  site,  the  yield 
of  ginned  cotton  fiber  was  the  same  on 
the  Coker  3 12  as  on  the  two  HD- 1 
transgenics  retested  this  year.  Good 
news,  so  far. 

But  fiber  from  these  two  transgenics 
was  coarser  than  Coker  3 1 2 — enough 
to  reduce  value,  says  Wilson.  On  the 


DAVID  NANCE 


Plant  geneticist  David  Altman  stands 
among  cotton  that  was  not  treated  for 
worm  pests.  In  contrast,  higher  yielding 
cotton  in  the  background  is  protected  by 
the  Bt  gene.  (K-4365-13) 


DAVID  NANCE 


Mature  cotton  boll  at  left  was  protected  by  a  gene  for  Bt,  other  bolls  show  damage  from 
cotton  pests.  (K-4366-8) 


Other  hand,  the  transgenics  at  least 
equaled  Coker  in  fiber  length  and 
elasticity,  and  both  had  stronger  fiber. 

"Commercial  Bt  cotton  could  be 
available  to  farmers  by  the  mid- 
1990's,"  says  Monsanto  senior  scientist 
Randy  Deaton.  "So  far,  we're  working 
with  five  seed  companies  to  backcross 
Bt  strains  with  their  top  varieties." 

Making  those  crosses  should 
improve  the  fiber's  qualities,  he  says. 
"Most  likely,  the  unusual  qualiti3i|n 
some  of  the  Bt-Coker  strains  are  due  to 
the  process  of  tissue-culturing  the 
genetically  engineered  cells  into  seed- 
bearing  plants.  We  don't  believe  those 
qualities  are  due  to  the  Bt  gene  itself" 

Finally,  while  the  case  for  growing 
Bt  cotton  as  an  alternative  to  using 
insecticides  appears  overwhelming, 
"we  need  to  do  all  we  can  to  preserve 
its  effective  use  in  a  farmer's  field," 
says  Deaton. 

That's  why  Monsanto  is  developing 
strategies  to  keep  insects  from  obtain- 
ing resistance  to  Bt.  For  example, 
"we're  developing  genes  that  express 
novel  insecticidal  proteins  and  can  be 


used  with  Bt,"  says  Deaton.  "The 
insects  would  find  it  much  more 
difficult  to  develop  resistance  to  both 
genes  at  the  same  time. 

"We're  very  proud  of  this  product. 
But  scientists  at  ARS  and  the  universi- 
ties will  continue  to  be  crucial  to 
getting  Bt  cotton  to  the  market.  Their 
expertise,  accessibility,  and  openness 
are  making  all  the  difference." — By 
Jim  De  Quattro,  ARS. 

David  W.  Altman  is  with  the  USDA- 
ARS  Southern  Crops  Research  Labo- 
ratory, Route  5,  Box  805,  College 
Station,  TX  77840.  Phone  (409)  260- 
9314.  Johnie  N.  Jenkins  is  at  the 
USD  A- ARS  Crop  Science  Research 
Laboratory,  P.O.  Box  5367,  Starkville, 
MS  39762.  Phone  (601)  323-2230.  F. 
Doug  Wilson  is  at  the  USD  A- ARS 
Westepi  Cotton  Research  Laboratory, 
413^.  Broadway,  Phoenix,  AZ 
85040.  Phone  (602)  379-3524.  Philip 
A.  Miller  is  with  the  USDA-ARS 
National  Program  Staff,  Bldg.  005, 
BARC-West,  10300  Baltimore  Ave., 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-2350.  Phone 
(301)344-2725.  ♦ 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


25 


INDEX 


A 

Abby  virus,  May-5 
Aflatoxin 

biocontrol,  Jan-21 

DNA  probes,  Jun-22 
Alfalfa  weevil,  biocontrol,  Oct-4 
Alternan,  sugar  conversion,  May-27 
Amino  acids,  in  infants'  diet,  Dec-20 
Animal  care  rules,  Dec-17 
Apple  ermine  moth,  biocontrol,  Oct-4 
Apple  tree  disease,  apricot  leaf  roll, 
Jan-22 

Apples,  bagging  without  bruising,  Aug-16 

B 

Babesiosis,  l\/lay-26 

Bacillus  thuhngiensis,  in  cotton,  Dec-22 
Barley,  malting,  new  varieties,  Sep-18 
Beans,  disease-resistant,  Jan-18 
Bees,  management,  Apr-18 
Beneficial 

fungi,  Feb-12 

insects,  Feb-14,  Oct-4 

nematodes,  Feb-17 
Biocontrol 

aflatoxin,  Jan-21 

alfalfa  weevil,  Oct-4 

apple  ermine  moth,  Oct-4 

corn  earworm,  Aug-9 

European  corn  borers,  Aug-18 

fungi,  Sep-26 

gypsy  moths,  Oct-4 

leguminous  weeds,  Mar-23 

pink  bollworm,  Aug-21 

tobacco  hornworm,  Aug-26 

whitefly,  Jan-16 
Biological  drugs  from  animals,  Aug-10 
Biotechnology 

DNA  probes,  Jun-22 

genetic  engineering,  animals, 
Aug-10,  Nov-4 
Blueberries  and  cross  pollination,  Apr-19 
Broomweed,  Jan-8 
Brucellosis,  cattle  disease,  Dec-8 

C 

Cabbage  loopers,  lured  with  artificial 

flowers,  Sep-27 
Calorie  intake  and  disease  immunity  in 

senior  citizens,  Nov-27 
Carbon  13  used  in  nutrition  studiePy 

Dec-20  -^'^ 
Carrots,  keeping  fresh,  Apr-18 
Caseous  lymphadenitis,  disease  in 

sheep,  Apr-16 


Cattle 

and  sheep  graze  together,  Dec-14 

breeds,  Nov-10 

disease,  Dec-8 

drives,  history,  Dec-18 

environment,  breeding,  Nov-12 

nutrition,  Jan-4 

parasites,  Jan-1 1 

reproduction,  Jan-4,  Mar-22 
Chitosan,  in  edible  food  wrapping,  Aug-25 
Citrus  pests,  detection,  Mar-22 
Colored  mulch,  improves  tomato  yields, 

Sep-10 
Computer  model 

bee  management,  Apr-8 

GOSSYM/COMAX,  Mar-13 

rainfall,  Jan-20 

range,  grazing,  RANGETEK, 
Jun-22 

stored  grain  pests,  Oct-17 

water  quality  (NLEAP),  Apr-10 
Copper  and  fructose  in  human  nutrition, 
Jul-20 

Corn  breeding,  pest  resistance,  Aug-18 
Corn  earworm 

better  control  method,  Oct-22 

floral  lures,  Jun-18 

predators'  diets,  Aug-9 
Cornstarch  encapsulation  of  drugs,  food 

additives,  Oct-23 
Cotton 

and  pink  bollworms,  Aug-21 
blended  with  synthetic  fiber,  Mar-8 
dyed,  no-wrinkle  finish,  Feb-10 
Egyptian,  Jan-22 
fiber  studies,  Jun-16 
GOSSYM/COMAX  computer 

model,  Mar-13 
nonwoven  fabrics,  Feb-19 
physiology,  new  techniques  for 
-    study,  Sep-26 
''^ansgenic,  Dec-22 

Cow  size  and  reproduction,  Mar-22 

Crambe,  Mar-17 

Ouphea,  a  new  crop,  Sep-16 

Cyclodextrins,  cheaper  production, 
Oct-23 

D 

Damping-off  diseases  in  crops,  Aug-27 
Daylily,  dwarf,  Nov-26 
Dietary  fat 

disease  resistance  impact,  Jan-23 

in  blood,  Jan-21 
Disease  research,  beef  cattle,  Dec-8 
Drip  irrigation,  underground,  Mar-20 
Drug  residues  in  meat,  Mar-6 
Drugs,  (pharmaceutical)  from  animals, 
Aug-10 


E 

Earthworms  and  groundwater,  Apr-14 
Embryo  co-culture  in  sheep  and  cattle, 
Jul-27 

Environmental  impact  of  cattle,  Dec-14 
European  corn  borers,  biocontrol,  Aug-18 

F 

Fat,  dietary,  Jan-21,  Jan-23 
Flash  drying  of  seeds,  Jun-23 
Food  safety,  meat,  Mar-6 
Food  wrapping,  edible,  Aug-25 
Forage 

new  warm-season  grasses,  Feb-19 
rangeland  hybrid  grasses,  Jan-4 
sainfoin  legume,  Feb-18 

Fort  Keogh,  Montana,  history,  Jan-1 0 

Forum 

Beef  Business  Is  Booming,  Nov-2 
Choosing  the  Proper  Potato,  Apr-2 
Down  and  Dirty  and  Loving  Every 

Minute,  Jul-2 
From  Plastics  to  Salad  Oil — 

Soybeans  Do  It  All,  Mar-2 
Groping  for  the  Master  Switch, 

Sep-2 

Hard-Fought  Victories  Against 

Animal  Diseases,  Dec-2 
Information  Retrieval:  A  Key  to 

Progress,  May-2 
Keep  Those  Cars  and  Cows 

Moving  Along,  Jan-2 
Nightmare  on  Weed  Street,  Jun-2 
Oh  No,  Mosquitoes!,  Aug-2 
Putting  the  Bio  in  Biocontrol,  Oct-2 
Remote  Sensing  for  Agriculture. .Is 
the  Sky  the  Limit?,  Feb-2 
Fruit  trees,  semidwarf,  May-12 
Fuller  rose  beetle,  Mar-22 
Fungi 

beneficial,  Feb-12 

biocontrol,  with  melanin,  Sep-26 
Fusarium  oxysporum,  Mar-23 
Gene  mapping,  cattle,  Nov-18 

G 

Genetic  engineering,  animals,  Aug-10, 

Nov-4 
Germplasm 

pecan,  Mar-4 
potatoes,  Apr-7 
tropical  fruit,  Oct-18 
Germplasm  collection,  Jul-5 
Germplasm  preservation,  Jun-22 
Gliocladium  virens,  modified  to  resist 

pesticide,  Aug-27 
Goats,  production,  Jul-26 
GOSSYM/COMAX  cotton  model,  Mar-13 


26 


Agricultural  Research/December  1991 


INDEX 


Guayule,  seeding  technique,  Aug-15 
Gypsy  moths,  May-5,  Oct-4 

H 

Hessian  fly  and  wheat,  Sep-22 
Hops,  new  varieties,  Sep-18 
Horses,  disease,  May-26 
Host-plant  resistance,  cotton,  Dec  22 

I 

Immunoglobulin  and  mastitis  in  dairy 
cows,  Oct-21 

Imported  insects,  quarantine,  Oct-4 

Ink  from  soybean  oil,  Mar-10 

Insect  traps  from  PVC,  Aug-23 

Insects,  beneficial,  Feb-14 

Iron  absorption  and  milk,  Aug-26 

Iron  uptake  by  plants,  enzyme  studies, 
Sep-21 

Irrigation 

energy  costs,  May-14 

preplant,  cost  effectiveness,  Oct-22 

use  of  straw  in  furrows,  Aug-25 

Irrigation  tubing  modification,  Aug-24 

Iturin  vs.  aflatoxin,  Jan-21 


Land-grant  schools  and  ARS,  Jul-26 
Larkspur,  poisonous  to  livestock,  Dec-5 
Laser  scanning  to  monitor  soil  erosion, 
Sep-14 

Lettuce,  miniature  heads,  May-22 
Lupines,  poisonous  to  livestock,  Dec-5 
Lychee,  exotic  fruit,  Oct-18 

M 

Mastitis  in  dairy  cows,  Oct-21 
Melanin,  inhibiting  fungi,  Sep-26 
Milk,  iron  absorption  not  blocked  by,  Aug- 
26 

Mini-silos  to  test  silage  inoculants,  Oct-13 
Mosquito  control,  Aug-4 
Mummichog  fish,  Nov-24 
Mycoplasmalike  organism,  in  apple  trees, 
Jan-22 

N-0 

Neem,  plant  disease  control,  Jun-21 
Nematodes,  beneficial,  Feb-17 
Nitrogen  and  rice  quality,  Jun-23 
Nitrogen  cleanup  by  sorghum,  Oct-22 
NLEAP,  computer  model,  Apr-10 
Osteoporosis,  May-24 


Palouse,  tillage,  weed  control,  Jun-12 


Parasites,  cattle,  Jan-1 1 
Peanuts,  fungal  disease,  Nov-20 
Pecan  production,  Mar-4 
Pesta,  nematode-pasta  combination, 

Feb-17 
Pesticide 

natural  from  neem,  Jun-21 
wash-off  data,  Apr-19 
Pheromones  for  fruit  beetles,  Nov-26 
Phospholipase  D,  enzyme  in  soybeans, 

Feb-18 

Phytochrome,  story  of  discovery,  Sep-4 
Pink  bollworm,  biocontrol,  Aug-21 
Plant,  Soil,  and  Nutrition  Laboratory, 
May-16 

Plant  explorations,  past  and  present, 
Jul-5 

Poisonous  plants,  livestock,  Dec-5 
Polytherm  process  for  fabrics,  Jan-1 4 
Potatoes,  production,  Apr-4 
Prostaglandin  E2  and  immunity  in  senior 

citizens,  Nov-27 
PVC  insect  traps,  Aug-23 


Rainfall  Probability  Index,  Jan-20 

Range  research,  Jan-4 

Range  reseeding  with  cattle,  Nov-26 

RANGETEK,  grazing  ,nodel,  Jun-22 

Remote  sensing,  crop  conditions,  Feb-4 

Reproduction 

beef  cattle,  Jan-4,  Mar-22,  Jul-27, 
Nov-4 

sheep,  Mar-13,  Jul-27,  Aug-12 

Rice 

controlled  nitrogen  application, 

Jun-23 
jasmine  flavored,  Apr-13 
Root  enzymes  control  iron  upta'' 
Sep-21 

s 

Sainfoin,  Feb-18 

Sclerotinia  minor,  fungus  in  peani  ^  ^ 
Nov-20 

Screwworm  rearing  and  diet,  Jul-  i 
Seed  preservation,  flash  drying,  Jun-2 
Sheep 

diseases,  Apr-16 

reproduction,  Mar-23,  Jul-27, 
Aug-12 

Texel,  Apr-17 
Sheep  and  cattle  graze  together,  Dec-'*  4 
Shrimp  production,  Mar-18 
Silage  inoculants,  mini-silos,  Oct-13 
Soil 

impact  on  plant  quality,  May-16 
nitrogen  cleanup,  Oct-22 
erosion,  laser  monitoring,  Sep-14 


losses  and  crops  needing  less 
tillage,  Nov-27 

Soybean 

dwarf  virus,  Jul-1 4 

in  shrimp  feed,  Mar-18 

reducing  waste  sugar,  Jun-21 
Soybean  oil 

improves  insecticide  effectiveness, 
Oct-22 

ink,  Mar-10 

refining,  Feb-18 
Sperm,  sheep,  frozen,  Aug-12 
Stored  grain  pests,  Feb-14 
Strawberries,  disease-resistant,  Sep-24 
Streptococcus  bovis,  promising  silage 

inoculant,  Oct-13 
Stress  and  swine  shipments,  Aug-25 
Sugar 

conversion  to  alternan,  May-27 
nutrition  and  health,  Jul-20 
Sugarcane,  subsurface  drainage,  Jan-20 
Swine  shipments  and  stress,  Aug-25 

T-V 

Tasmamia,  beans,  Jan-1 8 
Texel,  Finnish  sheep  breed,  Apr-17 
Textiles,  temperature  adaptable,  Jan-1 4 
Tillage  systems  and  weed  control  in  the 

Palouse,  Jun-12 
Tobacco  hornworm,  biocontrol,  Aug-26 
Tomato  bushy  stunt  virus,  Jan-1 2 
Tomatoes 

orange,  better  source  of  vitamin  A, 
Sep-20 

vetch  mulches  improve  yields, 
Oct- 14 

Toxic  plants,  livestock,  Dec-5 
Trichoderma  fungus,  Feb  12 
Triglycerides,  Jan-21 

and  sugar  in  human  nutrition,  Jul-20 
Tropical  fruits  gene  bank,  Oct-18 
Verticillium  wilt,  in  cotton,  Jan-22 
Vetch  mulches  for  tomatoes,  Oct-14 


Walking  to  stop  bone  loss,  May-24 
Walnut  trees,  pest  resistance,  Jun-10 
Water,  contamination,  Apr-11 
V^ater  conservation,  computer  model, 
Jan-20 

\?r  harvesting,  new  techniques,  Jul-25 
Pollution,  detection,  Nov-24 
'  "10  worst,"  Jun-4 
\ 

dness  classification,  May-27 
stance  to  Hessian  fly,  Sep-22 
iss,  as  food  grain,  Jul-1 8 
plant  pest,  Jan-1 6 


Whea 
White 


Agricultural  ResearcWoecember  1 99 1 


27 


U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Agricultural  Research  Service 
Rm.  318,  B-005.  BARC-West 
10300  Baltimore  Ave. 
Beltsville,  MD  20705-2350 

Official  Business 

Penalty  for  Private  Use  $300 


To  stop  mailing   IZ] 

To  change  your  address    LJ 

Please  return  the  mailing  label  from 
this  magazine. 


Bulk  Rate 
Postage  and  Fees  Paid 
U.S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Permit  No.  G-95 


AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH 

n  St  place 

in  the 

1991  "Blue  Pencil"  Competition 
sponsored  by  the 
National  As.v  jciation  of 
Government  Communicators 


Superintendent  of  Documents  Subscriptions  Order  Form 

Charge  your  order. 

It's  Easy! 


To  fax  your  orders  (202)  512  2233 


Order  Processing  Code: 

6130 

□  YES  ,  enter  my  subscription  as  follows: 

 subscriptions  to  AGRICULTURAL    /phys.ARCH  for  $28  00  per  year  ($35.00  foreign). 

The  total  cost  of  my  order  is  $  .  Price  /j^  des  regular  domestic  postage  and  handling  and  is  subject  to  change.  Call 

Order  and  Information  Desk  at  (202)  783-3238  p..  "^'1/31/92  to  verify  prices. 

Please  choose  method  of  payment: 

I    I  Check  payable  to  the  Superintendent  of  Documents 
GPO  Deposit  Account  I — 

I  I  I  I  I  I  i-n 

VISA  or  MasterCard  Account 


(Company  or  Personal  Name) 


(Pl'.;ase  typ  e)^"""-' 


(Additional  address/attention  line) 


(Street  Address) 


(City.  State.  ZIP  Code) 


Daytime  phone  including  area  code) 


/in 


(Purchase  Order  No.) 


May  we  make  your  name/addr 


YES  NO 
to  other  mailers?  |^ 


(Credit  card  expiration  date) 


Thank  you  for 
your  order! 


(Authorizing  Signature) 

Mail  To:  New  Orders,  Superintendent  of  Documents 
P.O.  Box  371954,  Pittsburgh,  PA  15250-7954 


'1> 


1 


