1 


COOPERATIVE 

PAPER 

NO 1 

EMPOWERING 

CONSUMERS 

THROUGH 

COOPERATION 


David Griffiths 
April 1993 



2 


The Government’s review of the State Electricity Commission of 
Victoria (SECV) is predicated on examining the possibilities for 
privatisation. Various reports over recent years have promoted the 
virtue of privatisation. (1) 

There is another option for the SECV - cooperatisation. This paper, 
therefore, examines the desirability of electric cooperatives in the 
context of (a) the Government’s commitment to empowering consumers 
and (b) the experience of approximately 1000 electric cooperatives 
serving a population of 25 million in rural U.S.A. 

-The Victorian Treasurer, Mr Alan Stockdale, has said: 

The strongest economy in the world is probably the United States 
economy, and in its formative years it was largely built on 
foreign capital and imported labour. (2) 

A critical explanation for the strength of the United States economy is 
the diversity of ownership. The electric industry, for example, has 
cooperative, private and public providers. Instead of a demand for 
privatisation, there is an acceptance of coexistence. 

Leonard J. Kujawa, Worldwide Director of Energy and 
Telecommunications, of Arthur Andersen & Co, has made the following 
observations on the electric industry in the U.S.A: 


The government-owned , or consumer-owned entities in the electric industry could 
be found around the world. In the worldwide trend, the public sign is coming down 
and the industry is being privatized. I have been to Europe three times in the last six 
weeks and the focus has been privatization - the transformation of the industry from 
govemment/consumer owned to private. That’s the world trend. It is not a 
phenomena'in the United States. I have not heard much of a need to privatize the 
federal power marketing agencies, or the consumer-owned utilities. I have not heard 
much about privatizing the Tennessee Valley Authority. 

I know why it is happening overseas and internationally. They think that their 
electric companies are inefficient and that privatization is a way to get them to be 
efficient in a global economy. 

That doesn't seem to be an issue for you or the municipals or the federal/state 
agencies, which is very good. It means that in the marketplace, you are perceived as 
an efficient supplier of electricity, and you aren’t being challenged by this 
movement. It is a' compliment to you and what you have accomplished, obviously. 
(3) 



3 


EMPOWERING CONSUMERS 

In discussing privatisation, the Victorian Treasurer, Mr Alan Stockdaie, 
has said: 

I think there’s a clear recognition throughout the Victorian Government that public 
benefit is our goal, that that's going to require a focus on empowering consumers - 
households, but particularly industry. (4) 

The Government’s understanding of empowerment was subsequently 
expanded in its explanation for the reform of government businesses: 

The program is designed to serve a wide range of objectives, but the overriding goal 
of these reforms is to provide enhanced performance and enduring public benefit for 
the Victorian community. (5) 

The Government has identified its three primary objectives as greater 
efficiency in the use of the State’s total resources, empowering 
consumers and reduction of State deb: 

Empowering Consumers. The program will maximise product market competition and 
consumer choice with benefits to both households and industry. It will enhance the 
quality of the service received by the community by providing economic power 
through choice. (6) 

There is only one way that consumers can be empowered - through 
cooperative ownership. Cooperatisation empowers households as the 
owners of particular enterprises. 

Victoria already has a significant cooperative sector with over 1,000 
agriculture, child care, credit, dispensary, housing, insurance, 
marketing and retail cooperatives. 

People establish cooperatives to own, control and patronise their own 
business. Cooperatives promote self-determination through mutual aid. 
Cooperatives combine democracy with free enterprise - involving an 
alternative organisational philosophy, structure and practice. Each 
member has only one vote. 

Cooperative ownership enables communities to control their own 
economic institutions and access to services - reducing their 
dependency on the public and private sectors. 



4 


U.S.A. EXPERIENCE 


There are approximately 1000 rural electric co-operatives in the U.S.A. 
owned and controlled by 12 million consumers and serving 10.5% of the 
country’s population (25 million). The cooperatives own and maintain 
more than half the electric distribution lines in the U.S.A. and 
distribute about 7% of the nation’s electricity. 


The electric cooperatives have a common commitment to cooperative 
philosophy and principles and, therefore, economic democracy. In 1988 
the typical electric cooperative had the following characteristics: 


Number of consumers 
Miles of line 
Number of employees 
Annual KWh sales 
Investment in plant 
Annual operating revenues 


7,987 

1,961 

35 

122,874,000 

18,073,503 

9,017,052(7) 


In the U.S.A. electric cooperatives originated with and have maintained 
a broad social purpose - including satellite technology, health 
promotion and economic development. In 1984 about 23% of rural 
electric cooperatives were involved in economic development. By 1990 
this had increased to 74% and an additional 14% reported that they 
would launch programs. Since 1961 the cooperatives have helped start 
and expand more than 25,500 projects - producing nearly a million new 
jobs. 

In 1986 the National Rural Telecommunications Cooperative was 
established to foster the development and growth of satellite 
technology in rural America. In 1987 the National Rural Health Network 
was established to promote healthy lifestyles and reduce risk for 
disease in rural communities. 


While the typical cooperative is small, the electric cooperatives are 
remarkably diverse - reflecting and reinforcing a commitment to 
cooperative democracy, the technological developments and stages of 
the industry and economies of scale. 

The Minnkota Power Cooperative at Grand Forks, North Dakota, 
generates power for 38 cooperative and public utilities - serving 



5 


3,539,348 consumers. The cooperative has 353 full-time employees and 
total sales of electric energy of $U.S. 87,405,611. (8) The Oregon Trail 
Electric Consumers cooperative at Baker City, Oregon, was established 
as a distribution cooperative in 1988 - taking over a private utility. 

The cooperative has 96 full-time employees, 25,601 consumers and an 
operating revenue of $U.S. 31,872,272. (9) 

In 1969 the electric cooperatives established a cooperative finance 
company- the National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corporation 
(CFC). The electric cooperative members of the CFC have a vested 
interest in how investors perceive the investment risks associated 
'-with the rural electric cooperative movement. CFC is a $U.S, 8 billion 
finance company whose credit depends upon the credit of its members. 

In 1992 the CFC requested three investment bankers to provide their 
views on capital market access for rural electric cooperatives. The 
bankers were: 

Robert R. Edmiston, Lehman Brothers. 

Jerry F. Hilligoss, Merrill Lynch & Co. 

J. Scott Magrane, Goldman, Sachs & Co. 

The bankers concluded that the CFC was a strong well-established 
name in the market with strong investment grade credit ratings. The 
bankers said that if CFC members maintain, on average, the credit 
standards they have exhibited in recent years, CFC will be able to meet 
all the funding requirements of its distribution members. (10) 


CONSUMER SATISFACTION 

In January 1992 the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association 
commissioned the Roper Organization to conduct in-home interviews 
with a nationwide cross section of 1,010 adults on public attitudes 
towards rural America - including opinions on electric service. 


Consumers were asked to rate cooperative, public and private utilities. 



6 


Cooperatives rated the highest in seven of nine areas. 

Perceptions of Electric Systems 

Private Public Cooperative 


Which would 
be better in 
terms of: 

The fairness 
-of the profits 
they make. 10% 

The concern 
they have for 
the 

environment. 9% 

Their 

efficiency 

in managing 

their business. 16% 

The fairness 
of the rates 
they charge. 10% 

Providing 

dependable 

service. 14% 


23% 


23% 


22% 


27% 


26% 


The interest 
they have 
in 

consumers. 18% 23% 


The influence 
that 

consumers are 
able to have 


34% 


32% 


31% 


31% 


30% 


29% 



13% 


29% 


on what is 
done. 


Communicating 

with 

consumers. 17% 

Their ability 
to keep up 
with advances 
in technology 
vand equipment. 19% 


26% 


27% 


28% 


25% 


22% 


Electric cooperative, public and private utility consumers were asked 
to rate their own utilities. Cooperatives rated the highest with their 
own consumers. Roper observed that public and private utilities did not 
enjoy the level of consumer satisfaction evident for cooperatives. 


Electric cooperatives enjoy a high degree of consumer satisfaction, 
better than any other type of electric utility., For people who say they 
are served by electric cooperatives, solid majorities rank cooperatives 
highest in fairness of ‘profits’, consumer influence, concern for the 
environment, fairness of rates, management efficiency and dependable 
service. (11) 


COOPERATISATION 

Consumer cooperatives demonstrate the possibility of empowering 
consumers. Electric cooperatives in the U.S.A. have converted this 
possibility into a reality - an economically viable reality for electric 
consumers, the accountancy profession and investment bankers. 

What has been achieved in the U.S.A. is possible for Victoria - 
particularly with a Government committed to empowering consumers. 

Empowering consumers, however, has typically been considered to be 
the opportunity for consumers to exercise their sovereignty in the 
marketplace through decisions to buy or not buy goods and services 
from private and public enterprises. Cooperative ownership extends the 
empowerment of consumers - enabling consumers to own and control 
providers. 



REFERENCES 


i 

Industry Commission, Energy Generation and Distribution Volume 11 Report and 
Volume 111 Appendixes, AGPS 1991 

Department of Primary Industries and Energy, National Electricity Strategy: A 
Discussion Paper, AGPS 1992 

Moore, Des and Porter, Michael (Ed.) Victoria: An Agenda For Change, Tasman 
Institute and Institute for Public Affairs, 1991 

Public Bodies Review Committee, Report to Parliament on the “appropriate model 
for corporatisation of the SEC”, June 1992 
-2 

Victoria Sets Cracking Pace, Decisions, Volume 5 Number 1, p 12 

3 

Kujawa, Leonard J Electric Utilities Fight For Growth in a Growing Electric Industry, CFC 
Power Review, January 1993, p 7 

4 

Victoria Sets Cracking Pace, Decisions, Volume 5 Number 1, p 11 

5 

Stockdale, the Hon Alan Restoring Victoria’s Finances: Stage 2, 6 April 1993, p 8-3 

6 

Ibid p 8-3 

7 

National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Rural Electric Sourcebook, 1990, p 
1 30 

8 

Rural Electrification Administration, 1991 Statistical Report, Rural Electric 
Borrowers, 201-1, July 1992, p 184 
9 

Oregon Trail Electric Co-operative, 1992 Annual Report 
1 0 

Cooperative Membership Effort Leads the Way to Future Financing Plans: Investment 
Bankers Review CFC’s Capital Market Access in Final MAC Report, CFC Report, 

March/April 1992, p 6 

CFC Member Advisory Committee, Final Report and Recommendations, January 1992, 
pp 35-38 
1 1 

National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Major Findings: Public Attitudes 
Toward Rural America and Rural Electric Cooperatives, 1992, pp 16 
The Roper Organization Inc, Public Attitudes Toward Rural America and Rural 
Electric Cooperatives, June 1992 



