


Courtesy 

Transportation 


Bumper-to-Bumper 

3-years/36,000 miles (60 000 km) 
Limited Warranty 



1-800-CHEV-USA 

(For V oh ids s Pur oho sod to Canada, 

call 1 - 800 - 268 - 6800 ! 

that provides in an emergency: 

O Free lockout assistance 
E> Free dead-battery assistance 
D> Free out-of-fuel assistance 
D> Free flat-tire change 
E> Emergency towing 


2000 Chevrolet S10 
Owner's Manual 


Litho in U.S.A. 

Part Number C2008 B First Edition 


© Copyright General Motors Corporation 1999 
All Rights Reserved 


Table of Contents 



Seats and Restraint Systems 

P> Seats and Seat Controls &> Air Bag Systems 

P> Safety Belts Child Restraints 




J 



Features and Controls 


Keys and Door Locks 

Remote Keyless Entry (RKE) System 

Tailgate 

Automatic Transmission (If Equipped) 

Manual Transmission Operation (If Equipped) 

Four-Wheel Drive Operation (If Equipped) 

Parking Brake 

Windows 

TiltWheel 


Turn Signal/M ultifunction Lever 
l> Windshield Wipers 
Cruise Control 

l> Interior and Exterior Lamps 
Mirrors 

Storage Compartments 

Accessory Power Outlets 

Instrument Panel, Warning Lights and Gages 




y 


Table of Contents (cont'd) 



Comfort Controls and Audio Systems 

P> Heating and Air Conditioning O Radio Theft- Deterrent Feature 

P> Setting the Radio Clock O Steering Wheel Controls (If Equipped) 

O Radio/Cassette Player/CD Player 

V 



Your Driving and the Road 


l!> Braking/Anti-lock Brakes (If Equipped) 
O Traction Control System 
O Steering 

O Driving Tips for Various Road Conditions 


O Off-Road Driving 
O Recreational Vehicle Towing 
P> Loading YourVehicle 
D> Towing a Trailer 



Table of Contents (cont'd) 



Service and Appearance Care 


Fuel 

Checking Fluids and Lubricants 
0 Bulb Replacement 
d> Windshield Wiper Blade Replacement 
Tires and Wheels 


Appearance Care 

O Electrical System/Fuses and Circuit Breakers 
l> Capacities and Specifications 
l> Normal Maintenance Replacement Parts 




J 



/ \ 

Maintenance Schedule 

O Scheduled Maintenance Recommended Fluids and Lubricants 

P> Periodic Maintenance Inspections Maintenance Records 

V J 


IV 


Table of Contents (cont'd) 



/ \ 

Customer Assistance Information 

O Customer Satisfaction Procedures & Warranty Information (See Warranty Manual) 

O Customer Assistance Offices & Reporting Safety Defects on page 8-10 

Roadside Assistance and Courtesy Transportation P> Service Publications 

\ ) 


Please refertothe last page of this manual for your Se/v/ce Station Guide 


V 



GENERAL MOTORS, GM, the GM Emblem, 
CHEVROLET, the CHEVROLET Emblem and the 
name S10 PICKUP are registered trademarks of General 
Motors Corporation. 

This manual includes the latest information at the time it 
was printed. We reserve the right to make changes in the 
product after that time without further notice. For 
vehicles first sold in Canada, substitute the name 
“General Motors of Canada Limited” for Chevrolet 
Motor Division whenever it appears in this manual. 

Please keep this manual in your vehicle, so it will be 
there if you ever need it when you’re on the road. If you 
sell the vehicle, please leave this manual in it so the new 
owner can use it. 


VI 





WE SUPPORT 
VOLUNTARY TECHNICIAN 
CERTIFICATION THROUGH 

National Institute for 

AUTOMOTIVE 

SERVICE 

EXCELLENCE 

v ) 


We support voluntary 
technician certification. 


For Canadian Owners Who Prefer 
French Language Manual: 

Aux proprietaires canadiens: Vous pouvez vous 
procurer un exemplaire de ce guide en franfais chez 
votre concessionaire ou au: 


DGN Marketing Services Ltd. 
1577 Meyerside Dr. 
Mississauga, Ontario L5T 1B9 


How to Use this Manual 

Many people read their owner’s manual from beginning 
to end when they first receive their new vehicle. If you 
do this, it will help you learn about the features and 
controls for your vehicle. In this manual, you’ll find 
that pictures and words work together to explain 
things quickly. 


Safety Warnings and Symbols 

You will find a number of safety cautions in this book. 
We use a box and the word CAUTION to tell you 
about things that could hurt you if you were to ignore 
the warning. 


A CAUTION: 


These mean there is something that could hurt 
you or other people. 


In the caution area, we tell you what the hazard is. Then 
we tell you what to do to help avoid or reduce the 
hazard. Please read these cautions. If you don’t, you or 
others could be hurt. 


Vll 



You will also find a circle 
with a slash through it in 
this book. This safety 
symbol means “Don’t,” 
“Don’t do this” or “Don’t 
let this happen.” 


Vehicle Damage Warnings 

Also, in this book you will find these notices: 


NOTICE: 


These mean there is something that could 
damage your vehicle. 


Vlll 


In the notice area, we tell you about something that can 
damage your vehicle. Many times, this damage would 
not be covered by your warranty, and it could be costly. 
But the notice will tell you what to do to help avoid 
the damage. 

When you read other manuals, you might see 
CAUTION and NOTICE warnings in different colors or 
in different words. 

You’ll also see warning labels on your vehicle. They use 
the same words, CAUTION or NOTICE. 


Vehicle Symbols 

These are some of the symbols you may find on your vehicle. 


For example, 
these symbols 
are used on an 
original battery: 


CAUTION A 
POSSIBLE /f\ 
INJURY * : Y 


PROTECT (*) 
EYES BY r TZn 
SHIELDING \y 


These symbols 
are important 
for you and 
your passengers 
whenever your 
vehicle is 
driven: 


DOOR LOCK 
UNLOCK 



CAUSTIC 
BATTERY 0-3 
ACID COULD 
CAUSE 
BURNS 


lSTEN |{i 

seat 

!ELTS 'T/ 


AVOID 
SPARKS OR 
FLAMES 



POWER 

WINDOW 


SPARK OR 
FLAME 
COULD 
EXPLODE 
BATTERY 



AIR BAG 



These symbols 
have to do with 
your lamps: 


These symbols 
are on some of 
your controls: 


MASTER SO/ 
LIGHTING -( > 
SWITCH 


WINDSHIELD 

WIPER 



TURN 

SIGNALS 




WINDSHIELD^L-f— L 
WASHER \ j / 


PARKING H — 
LAMPS p N 


HAZARD 

WARNING 

FLASHER 


DAYTIME .../—v 
RUNNING •'•I ) 

LAMPS ' 


WINDSHIELD 

DEFROSTER 



rear rrrn 

WINDOW till 
DEFOGGER ))) 


FOG LAMPS 



VENTILATING 

FAN 



These symbols 
are used on 
warning and 
indicator lights: 


ENGINE 

COOLANT 

TEMP 



BATTERY 

CHARGING 

SYSTEM 



BRAKE 


COOLANT 



ENGINE OIL 
PRESSURE 




ANTI-LOCK 

BRAKES 



Here are some 
other symbols 
you may see: 


FUSE ' 




LIGHTER 


HORN 


SPEAKER 


FUEL 




IX 


Model Reference 

This manual covers these models: 




X 


Service Station Guide 





Section 1 Seats and Restraint Systems 


Here you’ll find information about the seats in your vehicle and how to use your safety belts properly. You can also 
learn about some things you should not do with air bags and safety belts. 


1-2 Seats and Seat Controls 

1-7 Safety Belts: They’re for Everyone 

1-11 Here Are Questions Many People Ask About 
Safety Belts -- and the Answers 
1-12 How to Wear Safety Belts Properly 

1-12 Driver Position 

1-19 Safety Belt Use During Pregnancy 

1-20 Right Front Passenger Position 

1-20 Air Bag System 


1-30 

Center Passenger Position 

1-32 

Rear Seat Passengers 
(Extended Cab Jump Seats) 

1-33 

Children 

1-36 

Child Restraints 

1-48 

Larger Children 

1-50 

Safety Belt Extender 

1-50 

Checking Your Restraint Systems 

1-50 

Replacing Restraint System Parts 
After a Crash 


1-1 


Seats and Seat Controls 

This section tells you about the seats -- how to adjust 
them, and fold them up and down. 

Manual Front Seat 


A CAUTION: 


You can lose control of the vehicle if you try to 
adjust a manual driver’s seat while the vehicle is 
moving. The sudden movement could startle and 
confuse you, or make you push a pedal when you 
don’t want to. Adjust the driver’s seat only when 
the vehicle is not moving. 


1-2 



Move the lever under the front of the manual seat up to 
unlock it. Slide the seat to where you want it. Then 
release the lever and try to move the seat with your body 
to make sure the seat is locked into place. 


Manual Lumbar Support (If Equipped) 



If you have this feature, 
there will be a knob on the 
outside of the driver and 
passenger bucket seats. 


Turn the knob toward the front of the vehicle to increase 
lumbar support and toward the rear of the vehicle to 
decrease lumbar support. 


Reclining Seatbacks 
(Bucket Seats or 60/40 Bench) 



To adjust the front seatback, 
lift the lever on the outer 
side of the seat. 


Release the lever to lock the seatback where you 
want it. Pull up on the lever and the seat will go to an 
upright position. 


1-3 



But don’t have a seatback reclined if your vehicle 
is moving. 


1-4 


A CAUTION: 


Sitting in a reclined position when your vehicle is 
in motion can be dangerous. Even if you buckle 
up, your safety belts can’t do their job when 
you’re reclined like this. 

The shoulder belt can’t do its job because it 
won’t be against your body. Instead, it will be in 
front of you. In a crash you could go into it, 
receiving neck or other injuries. 

The lap belt can’t do its job either. In a crash the 
belt could go up over your abdomen. The belt 
forces would be there, not at your pelvic bones. 
This could cause serious internal injuries. 

For proper protection when the vehicle is in 
motion, have the seatback upright. Then sit well 
back in the seat and wear your safety 
belt properly. 



Seatback Latches 



The front seatback folds 
forward to let people get 
into the back seat or to 
access the storage area 
behind the seat. 


To fold the front seatback forward, turn the handle on the 
side of the seat rearward and pull the seatback forward. 

To return the seatback to the upright position, push the 
seatback all the way back until the latch catches. If the 
seatback was reclined before being folded forward, it 
will return to the reclined position. 


A CAUTION: 


If the seatback isn’t locked, it could move 
forward in a sudden stop or crash. That could 
cause injury to the person sitting there. Always 
press rearward on the seatback to be sure it 
is locked. 


Easy Entry Seat (Extended Cab Models) 

The right front bucket or split-bench seat of your vehicle 

makes it easy to get in and out of the rear vehicle area. 

• Tilt the right front seatback completely forward and 
the whole seat will slide forward. 

• Move the seatback to its original position after 
someone gets into the rear seat area. Then move the 
seat rearward until it locks. 


1-5 



A CAUTION: 


If an easy entry right front seat isn’t locked, it 
can move. In a sudden stop or crash, the person 
sitting there could be injured. After you’ve used 
it, be sure to push rearward on an easy entry seat 
to be sure it is locked. 


• Tilt the seatback completely forward again 
to get out. 


1-6 


Jump Seat (Extended Cab Models) 



Your extended cab pickup 
has a jump seat in the 
rear area. 


To fold the jump seat down, pull down on the pull tab on 
the bottom of the seat until the seat is in place, then 
move the seatback to a vertical position. To store the 
seat, fold the seatback down on the cushion, then push 
the entire seat up until it is flush with the trim panel. 

Don’t let the safety belts be damaged by the hinges or 
the latches. Safety belts should be folded and stored 
between the seat cushion and seatback. 


Safety Belts: They’re for Everyone 

This part of the manual tells you how to use safety belts 
properly. It also tells you some things you should not do 
with safety belts. 

And it explains the air bag system. 


A CAUTION: 


Don’t let anyone ride where he or she can’t wear 
a safety belt properly. If you are in a crash and 
you’re not wearing a safety belt, your injuries 
can be much worse. You can hit things inside the 
vehicle or be ejected from it. You can be seriously 
injured or killed. In the same crash, you might 
not be if you are buckled up. Always fasten your 
safety belt, and check that your passengers’ belts 
are fastened properly too. 


A CAUTION: 


It is extremely dangerous to ride in a cargo area, 
inside or outside of a vehicle. In a collision, 
people riding in these areas are more likely to be 
seriously injured or killed. Do not allow people to 
ride in any area of your vehicle that is not 
equipped with seats and safety belts. Be sure 
everyone in your vehicle is in a seat and using a 
safety belt properly. 



Your vehicle has a light that 
comes on as a reminder to 
buckle up. (See “Safety Belt 
Reminder Light” in 
the Index.) 


1-7 


In most states and Canadian provinces, the law says to 
wear safety belts. Here’s why: They work. 

You never know if you’ll be in a crash. If you do have a 
crash, you don’t know if it will be a bad one. 

A few crashes are mild, and some crashes can be so 
serious that even buckled up a person wouldn’t survive. 
But most crashes are in between. In many of them, 
people who buckle up can survive and sometimes walk 
away. Without belts they could have been badly hurt 
or killed. 

After more than 30 years of safety belts in vehicles, 
the facts are clear. In most crashes buckling up does 
matter ... a lot! 


1-8 


Why Safety Belts Work 

When you ride in or on anything, you go as fast 
as it goes. 



Take the simplest vehicle. Suppose it’s just a seat 
on wheels. 





Put someone on it. 


Get it up to speed. Then stop the vehicle. The rider 
doesn’t stop. 


1-9 






The person keeps going until stopped by something. 
In a real vehicle, it could be the windshield ... 


1-10 



or the instrument panel ... 




or the safety belts! 

With safety belts, you slow down as the vehicle does. 
You get more time to stop. You stop over more distance, 
and your strongest bones take the forces. That’s why 
safety belts make such good sense. 


Here Are Questions Many People Ask 
About Safety Belts -- and the Answers 

Q.‘ Won’t I be trapped in the vehicle after an 
accident if I’m wearing a safety belt? 

A: You could be -- whether you’re wearing a safety 
belt or not. But you can unbuckle a safety belt, 
even if you’re upside down. And your chance of 
being conscious during and after an accident, so 
you can unbuckle and get out, is much greater if 
you are belted. 

Q.‘ If my vehicle has air bags, why should I have to 
wear safety belts? 

A: Air bags are in many vehicles today and will 
be in most of them in the future. But they are 
supplemental systems only; so they work with 
safety belts -- not instead of them. Every air bag 
system ever offered for sale has required the use of 
safety belts. Even if you’re in a vehicle that has air 
bags, you still have to buckle up to get the most 
protection. That’s true not only in frontal collisions, 
but especially in side and other collisions. 


1-11 



Q‘ If I’m a good driver, and I never drive far from 
home, why should I wear safety belts? 

A: You may be an excellent driver, but if you’re in an 
accident -- even one that isn’t your fault -- you and 
your passengers can be hurt. Being a good driver 
doesn’t protect you from things beyond your 
control, such as bad drivers. 

Most accidents occur within 25 miles (40 km) 
of home. And the greatest number of serious 
injuries and deaths occur at speeds of less than 
40 mph (65 km/h). 

Safety belts are for everyone. 


1-12 


How to Wear Safety Belts Properly 

Adults 

This part is only for people of adult size. 

Be aware that there are special things to know about safety 
belts and children. And there are different mles for smaller 
children and babies. If a child will be riding in your 
vehicle, see the part of this manual called “Children.” 
Follow those rules for everyone’s protection. 

First, you’ll want to know which restraint systems your 
vehicle has. 

We’ll start with the driver position. 

Driver Position 

This part describes the driver’s restraint system. 

Lap-Shoulder Belt 

The driver has a lap-shoulder belt. Here’s how to wear 
it properly. 

1 . Close and lock the door. 

2. Adjust the seat (to see how, see “Seats” in the Index) 
so you can sit up straight. 



3. Pick up the latch plate and pull the belt across you. 
Don’t let it get twisted. 

The shoulder belt may lock if you pull the belt across 
you very quickly. If this happens, let the belt go back 
slightly to unlock it. Then pull the belt across you 
more slowly. 


4. Push the latch plate into the buckle until it clicks. 

Pull up on the latch plate to make sure it is secure. 
If the belt isn’t long enough, see “Safety Belt 
Extender” at the end of this section. 

Make sure the release button on the buckle is 
positioned so you would be able to unbuckle the 
safety belt quickly if you ever had to. 



5. To make the lap part tight, pull down on the buckle 
end of the belt as you pull up on the shoulder belt. 


1-13 




1-14 


The lap part of the belt should be worn low and snug on 
the hips, just touching the thighs. In a crash, this applies 
force to the strong pelvic bones. And you’d be less 
likely to slide under the lap belt. If you slid under it, the 
belt would apply force at your abdomen. This could 
cause serious or even fatal injuries. The shoulder belt 
should go over the shoulder and across the chest. 

These parts of the body are best able to take belt 
restraining forces. 

The safety belt locks if there’s a sudden stop or crash, or 
if you pull the belt very quickly out of the retractor. 



Q: What’s wrong with this? 



A: The shoulder belt is too loose. It won’t give nearly 
as much protection this way. 


A CAUTION: 


You can be seriously hurt if your shoulder belt is 
too loose. In a crash, you would move forward 
too much, which could increase injury. The 
shoulder belt should fit against your body. 


1-15 




Q: What’s wrong with this? 



A: The belt is buckled in the wrong place. 


1-16 


A CAUTION: 


You can be seriously injured if your belt is 
buckled in the wrong place like this. In a crash, 
the belt would go up over your abdomen. The 
belt forces would be there, not at the pelvic 
bones. This could cause serious internal injuries. 
Always buckle your belt into the buckle 
nearest you. 


Q: What’s wrong with this? 



A: The shoulder belt is worn under the arm. It should 
be worn over the shoulder at all times. 


A CAUTION: 


You can be seriously injured if you wear the 
shoulder belt under your arm. In a crash, your 
body would move too far forward, which would 
increase the chance of head and neck injury. 
Also, the belt would apply too much force to the 
ribs, which aren’t as strong as shoulder bones. 
You could also severely injure internal organs 
like your liver or spleen. 


1-17 


Q: What’s wrong with this? 



A: The belt is twisted across the body. 


1-18 


A CAUTION: 


You can be seriously injured by a twisted belt. 

In a crash, you wouldn’t have the full width of 
the belt to spread impact forces. If a belt is 
twisted, make it straight so it can work properly, 
or ask your dealer to fix it. 



To unlatch the belt, just push the button on the buckle. 
The belt should go back out of the way. 

Before you close the door, be sure the belt is out of the 
way. If you slam the door on it, you can damage both the 
belt and your vehicle. 


Safety Belt Use During Pregnancy 

Safety belts work for everyone, including pregnant 
women. Like all occupants, they are more likely to be 
seriously injured if they don’t wear safety belts. 



A pregnant woman should wear a lap-shoulder belt, and 
the lap portion should be worn as low as possible, below 
the rounding, throughout the pregnancy. 


1-19 



The best way to protect the fetus is to protect the 
mother. When a safety belt is worn properly, it’s more 
likely that the fetus won’t be hurt in a crash. For 
pregnant women, as for anyone, the key to making 
safety belts effective is wearing them properly. 

Right Front Passenger Position 

To learn how to wear the right front passenger’s safety 
belt properly, see “Driver Position” earlier in 
this section. 

The right front passenger’s safety belt works the same 
way as the driver’s safety belt — except for one thing. 
If you ever pull the shoulder portion of the belt out all 
the way, you will engage the child restraint locking 
feature. If this happens, just let the belt go back all the 
way and start again. 


1-20 


Air Bag System 

This part explains the air bag system. 

Your vehicle has ah' bags -- one air bag for the driver 
and another ah bag for the right front passenger. 

Frontal air bags are designed to help reduce the risk of 
injury from the force of an inflating air bag. But these 
air bags must inflate very quickly to do their job and 
comply with federal regulations. 

Here are the most important things to know about the 
air bag system: 


A CAUTION: 


You can be severely injured or killed in a crash if 
you aren’t wearing your safety belt — even if you 
have air bags. Wearing your safety belt during a 
crash helps reduce your chance of hitting things 
inside the vehicle or being ejected from it. Air 
bags are “supplemental restraints” to the safety 
belts. All air bags are designed to work with 
safety belts, but don’t replace them. Air bags are 
designed to work only in moderate to severe 
crashes where the front of your vehicle hits 
something. They aren’t designed to inflate at all 
in rollover, rear, side or low-speed frontal 
crashes. And, for unrestrained occupants, air 
bags may provide less protection in frontal 
crashes than more forceful air bags have 
provided in the past. Everyone in your vehicle 
should wear a safety belt properly — whether or 
not there’s an air bag for that person. 


A CAUTION: 


Air bags inflate with great force, faster than the 
blink of an eye. If you’re too close to an inflating 
air bag, as you would be if you were leaning 
forward, it could seriously injure you. Safety 
belts help keep you in position before and during 
a crash. Always wear your safety belt, even with 
air bags. The driver should sit as far back as 
possible while still maintaining control of 
the vehicle. 


1-21 


A CAUTION: 


Anyone who is up against, or very close to, any 
air bag when it inflates can be seriously injured 
or killed. Air bags plus lap-shoulder belts offer 
the best protection for adults, but not for young 
children and infants. Neither the vehicle’s safety 
belt system nor its air bag system is designed for 
them. Young children and infants need the 
protection that a child restraint system can 
provide. Always secure children properly in your 
vehicle. To read how, see the part of this manual 
called “Children.” 


1-22 



There is an air bag readiness 
light on the instrument 
panel, which shows the 
air bag symbol. 


The system checks the air bag electrical system for 
malfunctions. The light tells you if there is an electrical 
problem. See “Air Bag Readiness Light” in the Index 
for more information. 


How the Air Bag System Works 



Where are the air bags? 

The driver’s air bag is in the middle of the 
steering wheel. 



The right front passenger’s air bag is in the instrument 
panel on the passenger’s side. 


1-23 



A CAUTION: 


If something is between an occupant and an 
air bag, the bag might not inflate properly or it 
might force the object into that person. The path 
of an inflating air bag must be kept clear. Don’t 
put anything between an occupant and an air 
bag, and don’t attach or put anything on the 
steering wheel hub or on or near any other air 
bag covering. 


When should an air bag inflate? 

An air bag is designed to inflate in a moderate to severe 
frontal or near-frontal crash. The air bag will inflate 
only if the impact speed is above the system’s designed 
“threshold level.” If your vehicle goes straight into a 
wall that doesn’t move or deform, the threshold level is 
about 14 to 18 mph (23 to 29 km/h). The threshold level 
can vary, however, with specific vehicle design, so that 
it can be somewhat above or below this range. If your 
vehicle strikes something that will move or deform, such 
as a parked car, the threshold level will be higher. 


1-24 


The air bag is not designed to inflate in rollovers, side 
impacts or rear impacts, because inflation would not 
help the occupant. 

In any particular crash, no one can say whether an air 
bag should have inflated simply because of the damage 
to a vehicle or because of what the repair costs were. 
Inflation is determined by the angle of the impact and 
how quickly the vehicle slows down in frontal or 
near-frontal impacts. 

The air bag system is designed to work properly under a 
wide range of conditions, including off-road usage. 
Observe safe driving speeds, especially on rough terrain. 
As always, wear your safety belt. See “Off-Road 
Driving” in the Index for more tips on off-road driving. 

What makes an air bag inflate? 

In an impact of sufficient severity, the air bag sensing 
system detects that the vehicle is in a crash. The sensing 
system triggers a release of gas from the inflator, which 
inflates the air bag. The inflator, air bag and related 
hardware are all part of the air bag modules inside the 
steering wheel and in the instrument panel in front of the 
right front passenger. 


How does an air bag restrain? 

In moderate to severe frontal or near-frontal collisions, 
even belted occupants can contact the steering wheel or the 
instrument panel. Air bags supplement the protection 
provided by safety belts. Air bags distribute the force of 
the impact more evenly over the occupant’s upper body, 
stopping the occupant more gradually. But air bags would 
not help you in many types of collisions, including 
rollovers, rear impacts and side impacts, primarily because 
an occupant’s motion is not toward those air bags. Air 
bags should never be regarded as anything more than a 
supplement to safety belts, and then only in moderate to 
severe frontal or near-frontal collisions. 

What will you see after an air bag inflates? 

After an air bag inflates, it quickly deflates, so quickly that 
some people may not even realize the air bag inflated. 
Some components of the air bag module — the steering 
wheel hub for the driver’s air bag, or the instrument panel 
for the right front passenger’s bag — will be hot for a short 
time. The parts of the bag that come into contact with you 
may be warm, but not too hot to touch. There will be 
some smoke and dust coming from vents in the deflated 
air bags. Air bag inflation doesn’t prevent the driver from 
seeing or from being able to steer the vehicle, nor does it 
stop people from leaving the vehicle. 


A CAUTION: 


When an air bag inflates, there is dust in the air. 
This dust could cause breathing problems for 
people with a history of asthma or other 
breathing trouble. To avoid this, everyone in the 
vehicle should get out as soon as it is safe to do so. 
If you have breathing problems but can’t get out 
of the vehicle after an air bag inflates, then get 
fresh air by opening a window or door. 


• Air bags are designed to inflate only once. After they 
inflate, you’ll need some new parts for your air bag 
system. If you don’t get them, the air bag system 
won’t be there to help protect you in another crash. 

A new system will include air bag modules and 
possibly other parts. The service manual for your 
vehicle covers the need to replace other parts. 

• Your vehicle is equipped with a diagnostic module, 
which records information about the air bag system. 
The module records information about the readiness 
of the system, when the system commands air bag 
inflation and driver’s safety belt usage at deployment. 


1-25 


• Let only qualified technicians work on your air bag 
system. Improper service can mean that your air bag 
system won’t work properly. See your dealer 
for service. 


NOTICE: 


If you damage the covering for the driver’s or the 
right front passenger’s air bag, the bag may not 
work properly. You may have to replace the 
air bag module in the steering wheel or both the 
air bag module and the instrument panel for the 
right front passenger’s air bag. Do not open or 
break the air bag coverings. 


1-26 


AIR BAG OFF Switch 


Your vehicle has a switch on the instrument panel 
that you can use to turn off the right front passenger’s 
air bag. 



This switch should only be turned to AIR BAG OFF if 
the person in the right front passenger’s position is a 
member of a passenger risk group identified by the 
national government as follows: 



Infant. An infant (less than 1 year old) must ride in the 

front seat because: 

• my vehicle has no rear seat; 

• my vehicle has a rear seat too small to accommodate 
a rear-facing infant seat; or 

• the infant has a medical condition which, according 
to the infant’s physician, makes it necessary for the 
infant to ride in the front seat so that the driver can 
constantly monitor the child’s condition. 

Child age 1 to 12. A child age 1 to 12 must ride in the 

front seat because: 

• my vehicle has no rear seat; 

• although children ages 1 to 12 ride in the rear seat(s) 
whenever possible, children ages 1 to 12 sometimes 
must ride in the front because no space is available in 
the rear seat(s) of my vehicle; or 

• the child has a medical condition which, according 
to the child’s physician, makes it necessary for the 
child to ride in the front seat so that the driver can 
constantly monitor the child’s condition. 


Medical Condition. A passenger has a medical 
condition which, according to his or her physician: 

• causes the passenger air bag to pose a special risk 
for the passenger; and 

• makes the potential harm from the passenger air bag 
in a crash greater than the potential harm from 
turning off the air bag and allowing the passenger, 
even if belted, to hit the dashboard or windshield 

in a crash. 


A CAUTION: 


If the right front passenger’s air bag is turned off 
for a person who isn’t in a risk group identified 
by the national government, that person won’t 
have the extra protection of an air bag. In a 
crash, the air bag wouldn’t be able to inflate and 
help protect the person sitting there. Don’t turn 
off the passenger’s air bag unless the person 
sitting there is in a risk group. 


1-27 



To turn off the right front passenger’s air bag, insert 
your ignition key into the switch, push in, and move the 


switch to AIR BAG OFF. 


1-28 


The AIR BAG OFF light will come on to let you know 
that the right front passenger’s air bag is off. The right 
front passenger’s air bag will remain off until you turn it 
back on again, and the AIR BAG OFF light will stay on 
to remind you that the ah' bag is off. 


A CAUTION: 


If the air bag readiness light ever comes on when 
you have turned off the air bag, it means that 
something may be wrong with the air bag system. 
The right front passenger’s air bag could inflate 
even though the switch is off. If this ever 
happens, don’t let anyone whom the national 
government has identified as a member of a 
passenger air bag risk group sit in the right front 
passenger’s position (for example, don’t secure a 
rear-facing child restraint in your vehicle) until 
you have your vehicle serviced. 



To turn the right front passenger’s air bag on again, 
insert your ignition key into the switch, push in, and 
move the switch to the ON position. 


Servicing Your Air Bag-Equipped Vehicle 

Air bags affect how your vehicle should be serviced. 
There are parts of the air bag system in several places 
around your vehicle. You don’t want the system to 
inflate while someone is working on your vehicle. Your 
dealer and the service manual have information about 
servicing your vehicle and the ah' bag system. To 
purchase a service manual, see “Service and Owner 
Publications’’ in the Index. 


A CAUTION: 


For up to two minutes after the ignition key is 
turned off and the battery is disconnected, an air 
bag can still inflate during improper service. You 
can be injured if you are close to an air bag when 
it inflates. Avoid wires wrapped with yellow tape 
or yellow connectors. They are probably part of 
the air bag system. Be sure to follow proper 
service procedures, and make sure the person 
performing work for you is qualified to do so. 


The air bag system does not need regular maintenance. 


1-29 


Adding Equipment to Your Air 
Bag-Equipped Vehicle 

Q.‘ If I add a push bumper or a bicycle rack to the 
front of my vehicle, will it keep the air bags 
from working properly? 

A: As long as the push bumper or bicycle rack is 

attached to your vehicle so that the vehicle’s basic 
structure isn’t changed, it’s not likely to keep the 
air bags from working properly in a crash. 

Ql Is there anything I might add to the front of the 
vehicle that could keep the air bags from 
working properly? 

A: Yes. If you add things that change your vehicle’s 
frame, bumper system, front end sheet metal or 
height, they may keep the air bag system from 
working properly. Also, the air bag system may not 
work properly if you relocate any of the air bag 
sensors. If you have any questions about this, you 
should contact Customer Assistance before you 
modify your vehicle. (The phone numbers and 
addresses for Customer Assistance are in Step Two of 
the Customer Satisfaction Procedure in this manual. 
See “Customer Satisfaction Procedure” in the Index.) 


1-30 


Center Passenger Position 



Lap Belt 

If your vehicle has a bench seat, someone can sit in the 
center position. 



When you sit in a center seating position, you have a lap 
safety belt, which has no retractor. To make the belt 
longer, tilt the latch plate and pull it along the belt. 



To make the belt shorter, pull its free end as shown until 
the belt is snug. 

Buckle, position and release it the same way as the lap 
part of a lap-shoulder belt. If the belt isn’t long enough, 
see “Safety Belt Extender” at the end of this section. 

Make sure the release button on the buckle is positioned 
so you would be able to unbuckle the safety belt quickly 
if you ever had to. 


1-31 




Rear Seat Passengers 
(Extended Cab Jump Seats) 



Lap Belt 

These are reserve seating positions equipped with lap belts 
only. (If your extended cab pickup has the optional side 
access panel, there’s only one reserve seating position.) 

It’s very important for rear seat passengers to buckle up! 
Accident statistics show that unbelted people in the rear 
seat are hurt more often in crashes than those who are 
wearing safety belts. 


1-32 


Rear passengers who aren’t safety belted can be thrown 
out of the vehicle in a crash. And they can strike others 
in the vehicle who are wearing safety belts. 



Each jump seat has a lap belt with no retractor. 

To make the belt longer, tilt the latch plate and pull it 
along the belt. 






To make it shorter, pull the belt as shown until it is snug. 
Buckle and position it the same way as the lap part of 
the driver’s safety belt (see “Driver Position” in the 
Index). Make sure the release button on the buckle is 
positioned so you would be able to unbuckle the safety 
belt quickly if you ever had to. To unlatch the belt, just 
push the button on the buckle. 

Don’t use child restraints on these seats. They won’t 
work properly. 


Children 

Everyone in a vehicle needs protection! That includes 
infants and all children smaller than adult size. Neither 
the distance traveled nor the age and size of the traveler 
changes the need, for everyone, to use safety restraints. 
In fact, the law in every state in the United States and in 
every Canadian province says children up to some age 
must be restrained while in a vehicle. 

Smaller Children and Babies 


A CAUTION: 


Children who are up against, or very close to, any 
air bag when it inflates can be seriously injured 
or killed. Air bags plus lap-shoulder belts offer 
the best protection for adults, but not for young 
children and infants. Neither the vehicle’s safety 
belt system nor its air bag system is designed for 
them. Young children and infants need the 
protection that a child restraint system can 
provide. Always secure children properly in 
your vehicle. 


1-33 


A CAUTION: 


Smaller children and babies should always be 
restrained in a child or infant restraint. The 
instructions for the restraint will say whether it is 
the right type and size for your child. A very 
young child’s hip bones are so small that a 
regular belt might not stay low on the hips, as it 
should. Instead, the belt will likely be over the 
child’s abdomen. In a crash, the belt would apply 
force right on the child’s abdomen, which could 
cause serious or fatal injuries. So, be sure that 
any child small enough for one is always properly 
restrained in a child or infant restraint. 


1-34 


Infants need complete support, including support for the 
head and neck. This is necessary because an infant’s 
neck is weak and its head weighs so much compared 
with the rest of its body. In a frontal crash, an infant in a 
rear-facing restraint settles into the restraint, so the crash 
forces can be distributed across the strongest part of the 
infant’s body, the back and shoulders. A baby should be 
secured in an appropriate infant restraint. This is so 
important that many hospitals today won’t release a 
newborn infant to its parents unless there is an 
infant restraint available for the baby’s first trip in a 
motor vehicle. 



A CAUTION: 


Never hold a baby in your arms while riding in a 
vehicle. A baby doesn’t weigh much -- until a 
crash. During a crash a baby will become so 
heavy you can’t hold it. For example, in a crash 
at only 25 mph (40 km/h), a 12-lb. (5.5 kg) baby 
will suddenly become a 240-lb. (110 kg) force on 
your arms. The baby would be almost impossible 
to hold. 

Secure the baby in an infant restraint, but be 
sure to turn off the passenger’s air bag. See “Air 
Bag Off Switch” and “Securing a Child Restraint 
in the Right Front Seat Position” in the Index 
for more on this, including important 
safety information. 


1-35 




1-36 


Child Restraints 

Every time infants and young children ride in 
vehicles, they should have protection provided by 
appropriate restraints. 

Q.‘ What are the different types of add-on 
child restraints? 

A Add-on child restraints are available in four basic 
types. When selecting a child restraint, take into 
consideration not only the child’s weight and size, 
but also whether or not the restraint will be 
compatible with the motor vehicle in which it 
will be used. 



An infant car bed (A) is a special bed made for use 
in a motor vehicle. It’s an infant restraint system 
designed to restrain or position a child on a 
continuous flat surface. With an infant car bed, 
make sure that the infant’s head rests toward the 
center of the vehicle. 



A rear-facing infant restraint (B) positions an infant 
to face the rear of the vehicle. Rear-facing infant 
restraints are designed for infants of up to about 
20 lbs. (9 kg) and about one year of age. This type 
of restraint faces the rear so that the infant’s head, 
neck and body can have the support they need in 
a frontal crash. Some infant seats come in two 
parts -- the base stays secured in the vehicle and 
the seat part is removable. 


1-37 





1-38 





A forward-facing child restraint (C-E) positions a 
child upright to face forward in the vehicle. These 
forward-facing restraints are designed to help 
protect children who are from 20 to 40 lbs. 

(9 to 18 kg) and about 26 to 40 inches 
(66 to 102 cm) in height, or up to around four years 
of age. One type, a convertible restraint, is 
designed to be used either as a rear-facing infant 
seat or a forward-facing child seat. 



A booster seat (F) is designed for children who 
are about 40 to 60 lbs., or even up to 80 lbs. 

(18 to 27 kg, or even up to 36 kg), and about 
four to eight years of age. A booster seat is 
designed to improve the fit of the vehicle’s safety 
belt system. Booster seats with shields use lap-only 
belts; however, booster seats without shields use 
lap-shoulder belts. Booster seats can also help a 
child to see out the window. 


1-39 


When choosing a child restraint, be sure the child 
restraint is designed to be used in a vehicle. If it is, it 
will have a label saying that it meets federal motor 
vehicle safety standards. 

Then follow the instructions for the restraint. You may 
find these instructions on the restraint itself or in a 
booklet, or both. These restraints use the belt system in 
your vehicle, but the child also has to be secured within 
the restraint to help reduce the chance of personal injury. 
The instructions that come with the infant or child 
restraint will show you how to do that. Both the owner’s 
manual and the child restraint instructions are important, 
so if either one of these is not available, obtain a 
replacement copy from the manufacturer. 

The child restraint must be secured properly in the right 
front passenger seat. If you want to secure a rear-facing 
child restraint in the right front passenger’s seat, turn off 
the passenger’s air bag. See “AIR BAG OFF Switch” 
and “Securing a Child Restraint in the Right Front Seat 
Position” in the Index for more on this, including 
important safety information. 


1-40 


A CAUTION: 


A child in a rear-facing child restraint can be 
seriously injured or killed if the right front 
passenger’s air bag inflates. This is because the 
back of the rear-facing child restraint would be 
very close to the inflating air bag. Be sure to turn 
off the air bag before using a rear-facing child 
restraint in the right front seat position. 


Keep in mind that an unsecured child restraint can move 
around in a collision or sudden stop and injure people 
in the vehicle. Be sure to properly secure any child 
restraint in your vehicle -- even when no child is in it. 


Top Strap 



In Canada, the law requires that forward-facing child 
restraints have a top strap, and that the strap be 
anchored. In the United States, some child restraints also 
have a top strap. If your child restraint has a top strap, it 
should be anchored. 


An anchor bracket for a top strap is located at the rear of 
the seat cushion on the right front passenger’s seat. 



1-41 





Anchor the top strap to this bracket. Once you have the 
top strap anchored, you’ll be ready to secure the child 
restraint itself. 


1-42 


Securing a Child Restraint in the Center 
Front Seat Position 



Don’t use child restraints in this position. 
The restraints won’t work properly. 



Jump Seats (Extended Cab) 



Don’t use child restraints in these positions. 
The restraints won’t work properly. 


Securing a Child Restraint in the Right 
Front Seat Position 



Your vehicle has a right front passenger air bag. There’s 
a switch on the instrument panel that you can use to turn 
off the right front passenger’s air bag when you want to 
secure a rear-facing child restraint at the right front 
passenger’s position. See “AIR BAG OFF Switch” in 
the Index for more on this, including important 
safety information. 


1-43 





A CAUTION: 


A child in a rear-facing child restraint can be 
seriously injured or killed if the right front 
passenger’s air bag inflates. This is because the 
back of the rear-facing child restraint would be 
very close to the inflating air bag. Be sure to turn 
off the air bag before using a rear-facing child 
restraint in the right front seat position. If a 
forward-facing child restraint is suitable for your 
child, always move the passenger seat as far back 
as it will go. 


1-44 




A CAUTION: 


If the air bag readiness light ever comes on when 
you have turned off the air bag, it means that 
something may be wrong with the air bag system. 
The right front passenger’s air bag could inflate 
even though the switch is off. If this ever 
happens, don’t let anyone whom the national 
government has identified as a member of a 
passenger air bag risk group sit in the right front 
passenger’s position (for example, don’t secure a 
rear-facing child restraint in your vehicle) until 
you have your vehicle serviced. See “AIR BAG 
OFF Switch” in the Index. 


You’ll be using the lap-shoulder belt. See the earlier part 
about the top strap if the child restraint has one. Be sure 
to follow the instructions that came with the child 
restraint. Secure the child in the child restraint when and 
as the instructions say. 

1. Your vehicle has a right front passenger’s air bag. If 
you are using a rear-facing child restraint in this seat, 
make sure the air bag is turned off. (See “AIR BAG 
OFF Switch” in the Index.) If your child restraint is 
forward-facing, always move the seat as far back as 
it will go before securing it in this seat. (See “Seats” 
in the Index.) 

2. Put the restraint on the seat. 

3. Pick up the latch plate, and run the lap and shoulder 
portions of the vehicle’s safety belt through or 
around the restraint. The child restraint instructions 
will show you how. 

If the shoulder belt goes in front of the child’s face or 
neck, put it behind the child restraint. 


1-45 



4. Buckle the belt. Make sure the release button is 
positioned so you would be able to unbuckle the 
safety belt quickly if you ever had to. 


1-46 



5. Pull the rest of the shoulder belt all the way out of 
the retractor to set the lock. 



6. To tighten the belt, feed the shoulder belt back into the 
retractor while you push down on the child restraint. If 
you’re using a forward-facing child restraint, you may 
find it helpful to use your knee to push down on the 
child restraint as you tighten the belt. 

7. Push and pull the child restraint in different 
directions to be sure it is secure. 


To remove the child restraint, just unbuckle the vehicle’s 
safety belt and let it go back all the way. The safety belt 
will move freely again and be ready to work for an adult 
or larger child passenger. 

If you were using a rear-facing child restraint, turn on 
the right front passenger’s air bag when you remove the 
rear-facing child restraint from the vehicle unless the 
person who will be sitting there is a member of a 
passenger air bag risk group. See “AIR BAG OFF 
Switch” in the Index. 


A CAUTION: 


If the right front passenger’s air bag is turned off 
for a person who isn’t in a risk group identified 
by the national government, that person won’t 
have the extra protection of an air bag. In a 
crash, the air bag wouldn’t be able to inflate and 
help protect the person sitting there. Don’t turn 
off the passenger’s air bag unless the person 
sitting there is in a risk group. See “AIR BAG 
OFF Switch” in the Index for more on this, 
including important safety information. 


1-47 



Larger Children 



Children who have outgrown child restraints should 
wear the vehicle’s safety belts. 

If you have the choice, a child should sit next to a 
window so the child can wear a lap-shoulder belt and 
get the additional restraint a shoulder belt can provide. 

• Children who aren’t buckled up can be thrown out in 
a crash. 


1-48 


• Children who aren’t buckled up can strike other 
people who are. 


A CAUTION: 


Never do this. 

Here two children are wearing the same belt. The 
belt can’t properly spread the impact forces. In a 
crash, the two children can be crushed together 
and seriously injured. A belt must be used by 
only one person at a time. 


Q.‘ What if a child is wearing a lap-shoulder belt, 
but the child is so small that the shoulder belt is 
very close to the child’s face or neck? 

A : Move the child toward the center of the vehicle, but 
be sure that the shoulder belt still is on the child’s 
shoulder, so that in a crash the child’s upper body 
would have the restraint that belts provide. If the 
child is so small that the shoulder belt is still very 
close to the child’s face or neck, you might want to 
place the child in a seat that has a lap belt, if your 
vehicle has one. 




A CAUTION: 


Never do this. 

Here a child is sitting in a seat that has a 
lap-shoulder belt, but the shoulder part is behind 
the child. If the child wears the belt in this way, in 
a crash the child might slide under the belt. The 
belt’s force would then be applied right on the 
child’s abdomen. That could cause serious or 
fatal injuries. 


Wherever the child sits, the lap portion of the belt 
should be worn low and snug on the hips, just touching 
the child’s thighs. This applies belt force to the child’s 
pelvic bones in a crash. 


1-49 


Safety Belt Extender 

If the vehicle’s safety belt will fasten around you, you 
should use it. 

But if a safety belt isn’t long enough to fasten, your 
dealer will order you an extender. It’s free. When you go 
in to order it, take the heaviest coat you will wear, so the 
extender will be long enough for you. The extender will 
be just for you, and just for the seat in your vehicle that 
you choose. Don’t let someone else use it, and use it 
only for the seat it is made to fit. To wear it, just attach it 
to the regular safety belt. 

Checking Your Restraint Systems 

Now and then, make sure the safety belt reminder light 
and all your belts, buckles, latch plates, retractors and 
anchorages are working properly. Look for any other 
loose or damaged safety belt system parts. If you see 
anything that might keep a safety belt system from 
doing its job, have it repaired. 

Torn or frayed safety belts may not protect you in a 
crash. They can rip apart under impact forces. If a belt is 
torn or frayed, get a new one right away. 

Also look for any opened or broken air bag covers, and 
have them repaired or replaced. (The air bag system 
does not need regular maintenance.) 


1-50 


Replacing Restraint System Parts 
After a Crash 

If you’ve had a crash, do you need new belts? 

After a very minor collision, nothing may be necessary. 
But if the belts were stretched, as they would be if worn 
during a more severe crash, then you need new belts. 

If you ever see a label on 
the driver’s safety belt that 
says to replace the belt, be 
sure to do so. Then the new 
belt will be there to help 
protect you in a collision. 
You would see this 
label on the belt near 
the door opening. 


f ACAUTION 1 


To help avoid personal 
injury, belt assembly must 
be replaced if this vehicle is 
in a collision or if "Replace 
Belt" appears below. See 
Owner’s Manual for more 
information. 


| Replace 

Remplacer 

1 Belt 

La Ceinture 

VPnnted in 



If belts are cut or damaged, replace them. Collision 
damage also may mean you will need to have safety belt 
or seat parts repaired or replaced. New parts and repairs 
may be necessary even if the belt wasn’t being used at 
the time of the collision. 

If an air bag inflates, you’ll need to replace air bag system 
parts. See the part on the air bag system earlier in this section. 



Section 2 Features and Controls 


Here you can learn about the many standard and optional features on your vehicle, and information on starting, 
shifting and braking. Also explained are the instrument panel and the warning systems that tell you if everything is 
working properly -- and what to do if you have a problem. 


2-2 

Keys 

2-29 

Shifting Out of PARK (P) 

2-4 

Door Locks 


(Automatic Transmission Only) 

2-5 

Keyless Entry System (If Equipped) 

2-30 

Parking Over Things That Burn 

2-9 

Tailgate 

2-31 

Engine Exhaust 

2-9 

Theft 

2-31 

Running Your Engine While You’re Parked 

2-10 

Content Theft-Deterrent (If Equipped) 


(Automatic Transmission) 

2-12 

Passlock® 

2-32 

Locking Rear Axle 

2-12 

New Vehicle “Break-In” 

2-32 

Windows 

2-13 

Ignition Positions 

2-34 

Tilt Wheel (If Equipped) 

2-15 

Starting Your Engine 

2-35 

Turn Signal/Multifunction Lever 

2-17 

Engine Coolant Heater (If Equipped) 

2-41 

Exterior Lamps 

2-18 

Automatic Transmission Operation 

2-44 

Interior Lamps 

2-21 

Manual Transmission Operation 

2-45 

Mirrors 

2-23 

Four-Wheel Drive (If Equipped) 

2-47 

Storage Compartments 

2-26 

Parking Brake 

2-49 

Accessory Power Outlets (If Equipped) 

2-27 

Shifting Into PARK (P) 

2-50 

Instrument Panel 


(Automatic Transmission Only) 

2-51 

2-54 

Instrument Panel Cluster 

Warning Lights, Gages and Indicators 


2-1 


Keys 


A CAUTION: 


Leaving children in a vehicle with the ignition 
key is dangerous for many reasons. A child or 
others could be badly injured or even killed. 
They could operate the power windows or other 
controls or even make the vehicle move. Don’t 
leave the keys in a vehicle with children. 


2-2 




This vehicle has one 
double- sided key for the 
ignition and door locks. It 
will fit with either side up. 


When a new vehicle is delivered, the dealer provides 
the owner with a pair of identical keys and a key 
code number. 

The key code number tells your dealer or a qualified 
locksmith how to make extra keys. Keep this number in 
a safe place. If you lose your keys, you’ll be able to have 
new ones made easily using this number. Your selling 
dealer should also have this number. 


NOTICE: 


Your vehicle has a number of features that can 
help prevent theft. But you can have a lot of 
trouble getting into your vehicle if you ever lock 
your keys inside. You may even have to damage 
your vehicle to get in. So be sure you have 
extra keys. 


2-3 




Door Locks 


A CAUTION: 


Unlocked doors can be dangerous. 

Passengers -- especially children — can easily 
open the doors and fall out. When a door is 
locked, the inside handle won’t open it. 

Outsiders can easily enter through an unlocked 
door when you slow down or stop your vehicle. 
This may not be so obvious: You increase the 
chance of being thrown out of the vehicle in a 
crash if the doors aren’t locked. Wear safety belts 
properly, lock your doors, and you will be far 
better off whenever you drive your vehicle. 


2-4 


There are several ways to lock and unlock your vehicle. 

You can use the keyless entry system, if you have 
this feature. 

You can use your key to unlock your door from 
the outside. 

To lock your door from the inside, slide the lever on 
your inside door down. 


H To unlock the door, slide the 

lever on your inside door 
up. You will see a red area 
on the lever. 



Power Door Locks (If Equipped) 



If your vehicle has power door locks, the switch is 
located on the armrest. Remove the ignition key and 
press LOCK to lock all the doors at once. 

To unlock the doors, press the raised area next to the 
key symbol. 


Lockout Prevention 


To protect you from locking your key in the vehicle, this 
feature stops the power door locks from locking when 
the keys are in the ignition and a door is open. 

If the power lock switch is pressed when a door is open 
and the key is in the ignition, all the doors will lock, and 
the driver’s door will unlock. 

Leaving Your Vehicle 

If you are leaving the vehicle, take your keys, open your 
door and set the locks from inside. Then get out and 
close the door. 

Keyless Entry System (If Equipped) 

If your vehicle has this feature, you can lock and unlock 
your doors from about 3 feet (1 m) up to 30 feet (9 m) 
away using the remote keyless entry transmitter supplied 
with your vehicle. 

Your keyless entry system operates on a radio frequency 
subject to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) 
Rules and with Industry Canada. 


2-5 



This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC Rules. 
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: 

(1) this device may not cause harmful interference, and 

(2) this device must accept any interference received, 
including interference that may cause undesired operation. 

This device complies with RSS-210 of Industry Canada. 
Operation is subject to the following two conditions: 

(1) this device may not cause interference, and (2) this 
device must accept any interference received, including 
interference that may cause undesired operation of 
the device. 

Changes or modifications to this system by other than an 
authorized service facility could void authorization to 
use this equipment. 

At times you may notice a decrease in range. This is 
normal for any remote keyless entry system. If the 
transmitter does not work or if you have to stand closer 
to your vehicle for the transmitter to work, try this: 

• Check the distance. You may be too far from your 
vehicle. You may need to stand closer during rainy 
or snowy weather. 

• Check the location. Other vehicles or objects may be 
blocking the signal. Take a few steps to the left or 
right, hold the transmitter higher, and try again. 


2-6 


• Check to determine if battery replacement or 
resynchronization is necessary. See the instructions 
that follow. 

• If you’re still having trouble, see your dealer or a 
qualified technician for service. 

Operation 

UNLOCK: When you press UNLOCK, the driver’s 
door will unlock automatically, the parking lamps will 
flash and the interior lights will go on. If you press 
UNLOCK again within three seconds, the remaining 
doors will unlock, the parking lamps will flash and the 
interior lights will go on. 

LOCK: Press LOCK to lock all the doors. Press LOCK 
again within three seconds and the horn will chirp. 

Remote Panic Alarm 

When the button with the horn symbol on the key 
transmitter is pressed, the horn will sound and the 
headlamps and taillamps will flash for up to 30 seconds. 
This can be turned off by pressing the horn button again, 
waiting for 30 seconds, or starting the vehicle. 


Matching Transmitter(s) To Your Vehicle 

Each remote keyless entry transmitter is coded to 
prevent another transmitter from unlocking your vehicle. 
If a transmitter is lost or stolen, a replacement can be 
purchased through your dealer. Remember to bring any 
remaining transmitters with you when you go to your 
dealer. When the dealer matches the replacement 
transmitter to your vehicle, any remaining transmitters 
must also be matched. Once your dealer has coded the 
new transmitter, the lost transmitter will not unlock your 
vehicle. Each vehicle can have only four transmitters 
matched to it. 

Battery Replacement 

Under normal use, the battery in your transmitter should 
last about two years. 

You can tell the battery is weak if the transmitter won’t 
work at the normal range in any location. If you have to 
get close to your vehicle before the transmitter works, 
it’s probably time to change the battery. 


NOTICE: 


When replacing the battery, use care not to touch 
any of the circuitry. Static from your body 
transferred to these surfaces may damage 
the transmitter. 


To replace the battery in the keyless entry transmitter: 



2-7 



1. Insert a dime in the slot between the covers of the 
transmitter housing near the key ring hole. Remove 
the bottom by twisting the dime. 

2. Remove and replace the battery with a three volt 
CR2032 or equivalent battery, positive (+) side up. 

3. Align the covers and snap them together. 

4. Resynchronize the transmitter. 

5. Check the operation of the transmitter. 

Resynchronization 

Resynchronization may be necessary due to the security 
method used by this system. The transmitter does not 
send the same signal twice to the receiver. The receiver 
will not respond to a signal it has been sent previously. 
This prevents anyone from recording and playing back 
the signal from the transmitter. 

To resynchronize your transmitter, stand close to your 
vehicle and press and hold the LOCK and UNLOCK 
buttons on the transmitter at the same time for seven 
seconds. The door locks should cycle to confirm 
synchronization. If the locks do not cycle, see your 
dealer for service. 


2-8 


Side Access Panel (Extended Cab) 
(If Equipped) 



Your vehicle may be equipped with a side access panel 
for convenience in loading and unloading cargo. 

To open the side access panel, first open the driver’s 
front door. Then, use the handle on the panel to open it. 

You must close the side access panel before you can 
close the driver’s door. 


Tailgate 

You can open the tailgate by pulling up on the handle 
while pulling the tailgate down. 

When you put the tailgate back up, be sure it 
latches securely. 

Follow these steps if you want to remove the tailgate: 

1. Raise the tailgate slightly. 

2. Remove both retaining 
cables. To remove each 
cable, turn it so the end 
faces the front. Then, 
push forward so the 
larger part of the hole is 
over the bolt. Pull the 
end over the bolt. 




3. With the tailgate halfway down, pull the tailgate 
toward you at the left side and then move the tailgate 
to the left to release the right side. 

Reverse the procedure to reinstall. Make sure the 
tailgate is secure. 

Theft 

Vehicle theft is big business, especially in some cities. 
Although your vehicle has a number of theft-deterrent 
features, we know that nothing we put on it can make it 
impossible to steal. However, there are ways you 
can help. 


2-9 



Key in the Ignition 

If you leave your vehicle with the keys inside, it’s an 
easy target for joy riders or professional thieves -- so 
don’t do it. 

When you park your vehicle and open the driver’s door, 
you’ll hear a chime reminding you to remove your key 
from the ignition and take it with you. Always do this. 
Your steering wheel will be locked, and so will your 
ignition. If you have an automatic transmission, taking 
your key out also locks your transmission. Also 
remember to lock the doors. 

Parking at Night 

Park in a lighted spot, close all windows and lock your 
vehicle. Remember to keep your valuables out of sight. 
Put them in a storage area, or take them with you. 

Parking Lots 

If you park in a lot where someone will be watching 
your vehicle, it’s best to lock it up and take your keys. 
But what if you have to leave your ignition key? What if 
you have to leave something valuable in your vehicle? 

• Put your valuables in a storage area, like your 
glove box. 


2-10 


• If your vehicle has a remote keyless entry system, 
take the transmitter with you. 

• Lock all the doors except the driver’s. 

Content Theft-Deterrent 
(If Equipped) 

Your vehicle may be equipped with a Content 
Theft-Deterrent alarm system. 

With this system, the 
SECURITY light will flash 
as you open the door 
(if your ignition is off). 


SECURITY 


This light reminds you to activate the theft-deterrent 
system. Here’s how to do it: 

1 . Open the door. 

2. Lock the door with the power door lock switch or the 
remote keyless entry transmitter. The SECURITY 
light should come on and stay on. 


3. Close all doors. The SECURITY light should go off 
after approximately 30 seconds. The alarm is not 
armed until the SECURITY light goes off. 

If a door is opened without the key or the remote keyless 
entry transmitter, the alarm will go off. Your vehicle’s 
headlamps will flash and the horn will sound for 
110 seconds, then will turn off to save the battery power. 

Remember, the theft-deterrent system won’t activate if 
you lock the doors with a key or use the manual door 
lock. It activates only if you use a power door lock 
switch with the door open, or with the remote keyless 
entry transmitter. You should also remember that you 
can start your vehicle with the correct ignition key if the 
alarm has been set off. 

Here’s how to avoid setting off the alarm by accident: 

• If you don’t want to activate the theft-deterrent 
system, the vehicle should be locked with the door 
key after the doors are locked. 

• Always unlock a door with a key, or use the remote 
keyless entry transmitter. Unlocking a door any other 
way will set off the alarm. 

If you set off the alarm by accident, unlock any door with the 
key. You can also turn off the alarm by pressing UNLOCK on 
the remote keyless entry transmitter. The alarm won’t stop if 
you try to unlock a door any other way. 


Testing the Alarm 

The alarm can be tested by following these steps: 

1. From inside the vehicle, lower the driver’s window 
and open the driver’s door. 

2. Activate the system by locking the doors with the 
power door lock switch while the door is open, or 
with the remote keyless entry transmitter. 

3. Get out of the vehicle, close the door and wait for the 
SECURITY light to go out. 

4. Then reach in through the window, unlock the door 
with the manual door lock and open the door. This 
should set off the alarm. 

If the alarm does not sound when it should but the 
vehicle’s headlamps flash, check to see if the horn 
works. The horn fuse may be blown. To replace the fuse, 
see “Fuses and Circuit Breakers” in the Index. 

If the alarm does not sound or the vehicle’s headlamps 
do not flash, the vehicle should be serviced by an 
authorized service center. 


2-11 


Passlock® 

Your vehicle is equipped with the Passlock 
theft-deterrent system. 

Passlock is a passive theft-deterrent system. Passlock 
enables fuel if the ignition lock cylinder is turned with a 
valid key. If a correct key is not used or the ignition lock 
cylinder is tampered with, fuel is disabled. 

During normal operation, the will go off approximately 
five seconds after the key is turned to the 
RUN ignition position. 

If the engine stalls and the SECURITY light flashes, 
wait about 10 minutes until the light stops flashing 
before trying to restart the engine. Remember to release 
the key from START as soon as the engine starts. 

If the engine does not start after three (3) tries, the 
vehicle needs service. 

If the engine is running and the SECURITY light comes 
on, you will be able to restart the engine if you turn the 
engine off. However, your Passlock system is not working 
properly and must be serviced by your dealer. Your vehicle 
is not protected by Passlock at this time. You may also 
want to check the fuse (see “Fuses and Circuit Breakers” 
in the Index). See your dealer for service. 

In an emergency, call the GM Roadside Assistance 
Center. See “Roadside Assistance” in the Index. 


2-12 


New Vehicle “Break-In” 


NOTICE: 


Your vehicle doesn’t need an elaborate 
“break-in.” But it will perform better in the long 
run if you follow these guidelines: 

• Keep your speed at 55 mph (88 km/h) or 
less for the first 500 miles (805 km). 

• Don’t drive at any one speed — fast or 
slow — for the first 500 miles (805 km). 

Don’t make full-throttle starts. 

• Avoid making hard stops for the first 
200 miles (322 km) or so. During this time 
your new brake linings aren’t yet broken 
in. Hard stops with new linings can mean 
premature wear and earlier replacement. 
Follow this breaking-in guideline every 
time you get new brake linings. 

• Don’t tow a trailer during break-in. 

See “Towing a Trailer” in the Index for 
more information. 


Ignition Positions 

Use the key to turn the ignition switch to 
five different positions. 


c 



ACCESSORY (A): This position lets you use things 
like the radio and the windshield wipers when the 
engine is off. Push in the key and turn it toward you. 
Your steering wheel will remain locked, just as it was 
before you inserted the key. 


NOTICE: 


Don’t operate accessories in the ACCESSORY 
position for long periods of time. Prolonged 
operation of accessories in the ACCESSORY 
position could drain your battery and prevent 
you from starting your vehicle. 


LOCK (B): This position locks your ignition, steering 
wheel and transmission. It’s a theft-deterrent feature. 
You will only be able to remove your key when the 
ignition is turned to LOCK. 


2-13 


OFF (C): This position lets you turn off the engine but 
still turn the steering wheel. Use OFF if you must have 
your vehicle in motion while the engine is off 
(for example, if your vehicle is being towed). 

RUN (D): This is the position for driving. 

START (E): This position starts your engine. 


A CAUTION: 


On manual transmission vehicles, turning the key 
to LOCK will lock the steering column and result 
in a loss of ability to steer the vehicle. This could 
cause a collision. If you need to turn the engine 
off while the vehicle is moving, turn the key only 
to OFF. Don’t press the key release button while 
the vehicle is moving. 


2-14 


NOTICE: 


If your key seems stuck in LOCK and you can’t 
turn it, be sure you are using the correct key; if 
so, is it all the way in? If it is, then turn the 
steering wheel left and right while you turn the 
key hard. But turn the key only with your hand. 
Using a tool to force it could break the key or the 
ignition switch. If none of this works, then your 
vehicle needs service. 


Key Release Button 



The key cannot be removed 
from the ignition of manual 
transmission vehicles unless 
the key release button 
is used. 


To remove the key on manual transmission vehicles, 
turn the key to OFF. Then turn the key to LOCK while 
pressing the key release button down at the same time. 
Pull the key straight out. 

On automatic transmission vehicles, turn the key to 
LOCK and pull it straight out. 


Retained Accessory Power 

Your vehicle is equipped with a Retained Accessory 
Power (RAP) feature which will allow certain features 
of your vehicle to continue to work up to 20 minutes 
after the ignition key is turned to OFF. 

Your radio and power windows will work when the 
ignition key is in RUN or ACCESSORY. Once the key 
is turned from RUN to OFF, these features will continue 
to work for up to 20 minutes or until a door is opened. 

Starting Your Engine 

Automatic Transmission 

Move your shift lever to PARK (P) or NEUTRAL (N). 
Your engine won’t start in any other position — that’s a 
safety feature. To restart when you’re already moving, 
use NEUTRAL (N) only. 


NOTICE: 


Don’t try to shift to PARK (P) if your vehicle is 
moving. If you do, you could damage the 
transmission. Shift to PARK (P) only when your 
vehicle is stopped. 


2-15 




Manual Transmission 

The gear selector should be in NEUTRAL and the 
parking brake engaged. Hold the clutch pedal to the 
floor and start the engine. Your vehicle won’t start 
if the clutch pedal is not all the way down -- that’s a 
safety feature. 

Starting Your 2200 L4 Engine 

1. Without pushing the accelerator pedal, turn your 
ignition key to START. When the engine starts, let 
go of the key. The idle speed will go down as your 
engine gets warm. 


NOTICE: 


Holding your key in START for longer than 
15 seconds at a time will cause your battery to be 
drained much sooner. And the excessive heat can 
damage your starter motor. Wait about 
15 seconds between each try to help avoid 
draining your battery or damaging your starter. 


2-16 


2. If your engine still won’t start (or starts but then 
stops), it could be flooded with too much gasoline. 
Try pushing your accelerator pedal all the way to the 
floor and holding it there as you hold the key in 
START for about three seconds. If the vehicle starts 
briefly but then stops again, do the same thing, but 
this time keep the pedal down for five or six seconds. 
This clears the extra gasoline from the engine. 


NOTICE: 


Your engine is designed to work with the 
electronics in your vehicle. If you add electrical 
parts or accessories, you could change the way 
the engine operates. Before adding electrical 
equipment, check with your dealer. If you don’t, 
your engine might not perform properly. 

If you ever have to have your vehicle towed, see 
the part of this manual that tells how to do it 
without damaging your vehicle. See “Towing 
Your Vehicle” in the Index. 


Starting Your “VORTEC” 4300 Y6 Engine 

1. Without pushing the accelerator pedal, turn your 
ignition key to START. When the engine starts, let 
go of the key. The idle speed will go down as your 
engine gets warm. 


NOTICE: 


Holding your key in START for longer than 
15 seconds at a time will cause your battery to be 
drained much sooner. And the excessive heat can 
damage your starter motor. Wait about 
15 seconds between each try to help avoid 
draining your battery or damaging your starter. 


2. If it doesn’t start right away, hold your key in 
START. If it doesn’t start in 10 seconds, push the 
accelerator pedal all the way down for five more 
seconds, unless it starts sooner. 

3. If your engine still won’t start (or starts but then 
stops), wait 15 seconds and start over. 

When the engine starts, let go of the key and the 
accelerator pedal. 


NOTICE: 


Your engine is designed to work with the 
electronics in your vehicle. If you add electrical 
parts or accessories, you could change the way 
the engine operates. Before adding electrical 
equipment, check with your dealer. If you don’t, 
your engine might not perform properly. 

If you ever have to have your vehicle towed, see 
the part of this manual that tells how to do it 
without damaging your vehicle. See “Towing 
Your Vehicle” in the Index. 


Engine Coolant Heater (If Equipped) 

In very cold weather, 0°F (-18°C) or colder, the engine 
coolant heater can help. You’ll get easier starting and 
better fuel economy during engine warm-up. Usually, 
the coolant heater should be plugged in a minimum of 
four hours prior to starting your vehicle. If you have the 
2200 L4 (VIN Code 5) engine and are using ethanol 
(E-85) fuel with 70% or more ethanol in very cold 
weather, the use of the engine coolant heater is 
important. For more information, see “Fuel E-85” 
in the Index. 


2-17 


To Use the Engine Coolant Heater 

1. Turn off the engine. 

2. Open the hood and unwrap the electrical cord. 

The cord is located on the driver’s side of the engine 
compartment, behind the underhood fuse block. 

3. Plug it into a normal, grounded 110-volt AC outlet. 


A CAUTION: 


Plugging the cord into an ungrounded outlet 
could cause an electrical shock. Also, the wrong 
kind of extension cord could overheat and cause 
a fire. You could be seriously injured. Plug the 
cord into a properly grounded three-prong 
110-volt AC outlet. If the cord won’t reach, use a 
heavy-duty three-prong extension cord rated for 
at least 15 amps. 


4. Before starting the engine, be sure to unplug and 
store the cord as it was before to keep it away from 
moving engine parts. If you don’t, it could 
be damaged. 


2-18 


How long should you keep the coolant heater plugged 
in? The answer depends on the outside temperature, the 
kind of oil you have, and some other things. Instead of 
trying to list everything here, we ask that you contact 
your dealer in the area where you’ll be parking your 
vehicle. The dealer can give you the best advice for that 
particular area. 

Automatic Transmission Operation 

Your automatic transmission has a shift lever on the 
steering column. 

There are several different positions for your shift lever. 

It features an electronic shift position indicator within 
the instrument cluster. This display must be powered 
anytime the shift lever is capable of being moved out of 
PARK (P). This means that if your key is in OFF, but 
not locked, there will be a small current drain on your 
battery which could discharge your battery over a period 
of time. If you need to leave your key in the ignition in 
OFF for an extended period, it is recommended that you 
disconnect the battery cable from the battery to prevent 
discharging your battery. 

PARK (P): This locks your rear wheels. It’s the best 
position to use when you start your engine because your 
vehicle can’t move easily. 


A CAUTION: 


It is dangerous to get out of your vehicle if the 
shift lever is not fully in PARK (P) with the 
parking brake firmly set. Your vehicle can roll. 
Don’t leave your vehicle when the engine is 
running unless you have to. If you have left the 
engine running, the vehicle can move suddenly. 
You or others could be injured. To be sure your 
vehicle won’t move, even when you’re on fairly 
level ground, always set your parking brake and 
move the shift lever to PARK (P). 

See “Shifting Into PARK (P)” in the Index. If 
you’re pulling a trailer, see “Towing a Trailer” in 
the Index. 


Ensure the shift lever is fully in PARK (P) before 
starting the engine. Your vehicle has a automatic 
transmission shift lock control system. You have to fully 
apply your regular brakes before you can shift from 
PARK (P) when the ignition key is in RUN. If you 
cannot shift out of PARK (P), ease pressure on the shift 
lever -- push the shift lever all the way into PARK (P) as 
you maintain brake application. Then move the shift 
lever into the gear you wish. See “Shifting Out of 
PARK (P)” in the Index. 

REVERSE (R): Use this gear to back up. 


NOTICE: 


Shifting to REVERSE (R) while your 
vehicle is moving forward could damage your 
transmission. Shift to REVERSE (R) only after 
your vehicle is stopped. 


To rock your vehicle back and forth to get out of snow, 
ice or sand without damaging your transmission, see 
“Stuck In Sand, Mud, Ice or Snow” in the Index. 


2-19 


NEUTRAL (N): In this position, your engine doesn’t 
connect with the wheels. To restart when you’re already 
moving, use NEUTRAL (N) only. 


A CAUTION: 


Shifting out of PARK (P) or NEUTRAL (N) while 
your engine is “racing” (running at high speed) is 
dangerous. Unless your foot is firmly on the 
brake pedal, your vehicle could move very 
rapidly. You could lose control and hit people or 
objects. Don’t shift out of PARK (P) or 
NEUTRAL (N) while your engine is racing. 


NOTICE: 


Damage to your transmission caused by shifting 
out of PARK (P) or NEUTRAL (N) with the 
engine racing isn’t covered by your warranty. 


2-20 


DRIVE (D): This position is for normal driving. 

If you need more power for passing, and you’re: 

• Going less than about 35 mph (55 km/h), push your 
accelerator pedal about halfway down. 

• Going about 35 mph (55 km/h) or more, push the 
accelerator all the way down. 

You’ll shift down to the next gear and have more power. 

DRIVE (D) should not be used when towing a trailer, 
carrying a heavy load, driving on steep hills, or for 
off-road driving. Select THIRD (3) when operating the 
vehicle under any of these conditions. 

THIRD (3): This position is also used for normal 
driving, however it offers more power and lower fuel 
economy than DRIVE (D). You should use THIRD (3) 
when towing a trailer, carrying a heavy load, driving on 
steep hills or winding roads or for off-road driving. 

SECOND (2): This position gives you more power but 
lower fuel economy than THIRD (3). You can use 
SECOND (2) on hills. It can help control your speed as 
you go down steep mountain roads, but then you would 
also want to use your brakes off and on. You can also 
use SECOND (2) for starting your vehicle from a stop 
on slippery road surfaces. 


FIRST (1): This position gives you even more power 
but lower fuel economy than SECOND (2). You can use 
it on very steep hills, or in deep snow or mud. If the 
selector lever is put in FIRST (1) while the vehicle is 
moving forward, the transmission won’t shift into 
FIRST (1) until the vehicle is going slowly enough. 


NOTICE: 


If your rear wheels can’t rotate, don’t try to 
drive. This might happen if you were stuck in 
very deep sand or mud or were up against a solid 
object. You could damage your transmission. 
Also, if you stop when going uphill, don’t hold 
your vehicle there with only the accelerator 
pedal. This could overheat and damage the 
transmission. Use your brakes or shift into 
PARK (P) to hold your vehicle in position 
on a hill. 


Manual Transmission Operation 

5-Speed 

This is your shift pattern. 


1 c 

5 

2 ' 

R 


Here’s how to operate your transmission: 

FIRST (1): Press the clutch pedal and shift into 
FIRST (1). Then, slowly let up on the clutch pedal as 
you press the accelerator pedal. 

You can shift into FIRST (1) when you’re going less 
than 20 mph (30 km/h). If you’ve come to a complete 
stop and it’s hard to shift into FIRST (1), put the shift 
lever in NEUTRAL and let up on the clutch. Press the 
clutch pedal back down. Then shift into FIRST (1). 


2-21 


SECOND (2): Press the clutch pedal as you let up 
on the accelerator pedal and shift into SECOND (2). 
Then, slowly let up on the clutch pedal as you press the 
accelerator pedal. 

THIRD, FOURTH AND FIFTH (3, 4 and 5): Shift 
into THIRD (3), FOURTH (4) and FIFTH (5) the same 
way you do for SECOND (2). Slowly let up on the 
clutch pedal as you press the accelerator pedal. 

To stop, let up on the accelerator pedal and press the brake 
pedal. Just before the vehicle stops, press the clutch pedal 
and the brake pedal, and shift to NEUTRAL. 

NEUTRAL: Use this position when you start or idle 
your engine. 


2-22 


REVERSE (R): To back up, press the clutch pedal. 
After the vehicle stops, shift into REVERSE (R). 

For vehicles equipped with the VORTEC 4300 V6 
engine, you must wait six seconds before shifting into 
REVERSE (R). Slowly let up on the clutch pedal as you 
press the accelerator pedal. 


NOTICE: 


Shift to REVERSE (R) only after your vehicle is 
stopped. Shifting to REVERSE (R) while your 
vehicle is moving could damage your transmission. 


Use REVERSE (R), along with the parking brake, for 
parking your vehicle. 


If you have a manual 
transmission, you have a 
SHIFT light. 


This light will show you when to shift to the next higher 
gear for best fuel economy. 

When this light comes on, you can shift to the next 
higher gear if weather, road and traffic conditions let 
you. For the best fuel economy, accelerate slowly and 
shift when the light comes on. 

While you accelerate, it is normal for the light to go on 
and off if you quickly change the position of the 
accelerator. Ignore the SHIFT light when you downshift. 


A CAUTION: 


If you skip a gear when you downshift, you could 
lose control of your vehicle. You could injure 
yourself or others. Don’t shift down more than 
one gear at a time when you downshift. 


Shift Light 



Four-Wheel Drive (If Equipped) 

If your vehicle has four-wheel drive, you can send your 
engine’s driving power to all four wheels for extra 
traction. To get the most satisfaction out of four-wheel 
drive, you must be familiar with its operation. Read the 
part that follows before using four-wheel drive. You 
should use two- wheel drive (2HI) for most normal 
driving conditions. 


NOTICE: 


Driving in the 4HI or 4LO positions for a long 
time on dry or wet pavement could shorten the 
life of your vehicle’s drivetrain. 


2-23 


Electronic Transfer Case (If Equipped) 



4 ID 


If your four-wheel-drive 
vehicle has the electronic 
transfer case, the transfer 
case switches are located 
to the right of the 
steering wheel. 


Use these switches to shift into and out of four-wheel 
drive. You can choose among three driving settings: 

2HI: This setting is for driving in most street and 
highway situations. Your front axle is not engaged in 
two-wheel drive. When this lamp is lit, it is about 
one-half as bright as the others. 

4HI: This setting engages your front axle to help drive 
your vehicle. Use 4HI when you need extra traction, such 
as on snowy or icy roads, or in most off-road situations. 


2-24 


4LO: This setting also engages your front axle to give 
you extra traction. You may never need 4LO. It sends 
the maximum power to all four wheels. You might 
choose 4LO if you were driving off-road in sand, mud 
or deep snow and climbing or descending steep hills. 

Indicator lights in the switches show you which setting 
you are in. The indicator lights will come on briefly when 
you turn on the ignition and one will stay on. If the lights 
do not come on, you should take your vehicle in for 
service. An indicator light will flash while shifting. It will 
remain illuminated when the shift is completed. 

Shifting from 2HI to 4HI 

Press and release the 4HI switch. This can be done at 
any speed, and the front axle will lock automatically. 

Shifting from 4HI to 2HI 

Press and release the 2HI switch. This can be done at 
any speed, and the front axle will unlock automatically. 




Shifting from 2HI or 4HI to 4LO 

To shift from 2HI or 4HI to 4LO, the vehicle must be 
stopped or moving less than 3 mph (4.8 km/h) with the 
transmission in NEUTRAL (N) in vehicles equipped 
with an automatic transmission or the clutch pedal 
engaged in vehicles equipped with a manual 
transmission. The preferred method for shifting into 
4LO is to have your vehicle moving 1 to 2 mph (1.6 to 
3.2 km/h). Press and release the 4LO switch. You must 
wait for the 4LO indicator light to stop flashing and 
remain illuminated before shifting your transmission 
into gear or releasing the clutch pedal. 

If the 4LO switch is pressed when your vehicle is in 
gear and/or moving, the 4LO indicator light will flash 
for 30 seconds and not complete the shift unless your 
vehicle is moving slower than 3 mph (4.8 km/h) and 
the transmission is in NEUTRAL (N) or the clutch 
pedal engaged. 


On automatic transmission equipped vehicles, if your 
transfer case does not shift into 4LO, your transmission 
indicator switch may require adjustment. With your 
transmission in NEUTRAL (N), press and release the 
4LO switch. While the 4LO indicator light is flashing, 
shift your transmission into PARK (P). Wait until the 
4LO indicator light remains illuminated before shifting 
your transmission into gear. This will get you into 4LO, 
but you should take your vehicle in for service to restore 
normal operation. 

Shifting from 4LO to 4HI or 2HI 

To shift from 4LO to 4HI or 2HI, your vehicle must be 
stopped or moving less than 3 mph (4.8 km/h) with the 
transmission in NEUTRAL (N) or the clutch pedal 
engaged. The preferred method for shifting out of 4LO is 
to have your vehicle moving 1 to 2 mph (1.6 to 3.2 km/h). 
Press and release the 4H1 switch. You must wait for the 
4H1 indicator light to stop flashing and remain illuminated 
before shifting your transmission into gear or releasing the 
clutch pedal. 


2-25 


If the 4HI switch is pressed when your vehicle is in gear 
and/or moving, the 4HI indicator light will flash for 
30 seconds but not complete the shift unless the vehicle 
is moving slower than 3 mph (4.8 km/h) and the 
transmission is in NEUTRAL (N) or the clutch 
pedal engaged. 

On automatic transmission equipped vehicles, if your 
transfer case does not shift into 4HI, your transmission 
indicator switch may require adjustment. With your 
transmission in NEUTRAL (N), press and release the 
4HI switch. While the 4HI indicator light is flashing, 
shift your transmission into PARK (P). Wait until the 
4HI indicator light remains illuminated before shifting 
your transmission into gear. This will get you into 4HI, 
but you should take your vehicle in for service to restore 
normal operation. 

Parking Brake 

To set the parking brake, hold the regular brake pedal 
down with your right foot. Push down the parking brake 
pedal with your left foot. If the ignition is on, the brake 
system warning light will come on. 

To release the parking brake hold the regular brake 
pedal down. 


2-26 



Pull the BRAKE RELEASE lever fully. It is located on 
the bottom of the driver’s side of the instrument panel. 


NOTICE: 


Driving with the parking brake on can cause 
your rear brakes to overheat. You may have to 
replace them, and you could also damage other 
parts of your vehicle. 


If you are towing a trailer and you must park on a hill, 
see “Towing a Trailer” in the Index. That section shows 
what to do first to keep the trailer from moving. 


Shifting Into PARK (P) 
(Automatic Transmission Only) 


A CAUTION: 


It can be dangerous to get out of your vehicle if 
the shift lever is not fully in PARK (P) with the 
parking brake firmly set. Your vehicle can roll. 

If you have left the engine running, the vehicle 
can move suddenly. You or others could be 
injured. To be sure your vehicle won’t move, even 
when you’re on fairly level ground, use the steps 
that follow. Always put the shift lever fully in 
PARK (P) with the parking brake firmly set. If 
you’re pulling a trailer, see “Towing a Trailer” in 
the Index. 


1. Hold the brake pedal down with your right foot and 
set the parking brake. 

2. Move the shift lever into PARK (P) position 
like this: 



• Pull the lever toward you. 


2-27 



• Move the lever up as far as it will go. 

3. Turn the ignition key to LOCK. 

4. Remove the key and take it with you. If you can 
leave your vehicle with the key, your vehicle is in 
PARK (P). 


2-28 


Leaving Your Vehicle With the Engine 
Running (Automatic Transmission Only) 


A CAUTION: 


It can be dangerous to leave your vehicle with 
the engine running. Your vehicle could move 
suddenly if the shift lever is not fully in PARK (P) 
with the parking brake firmly set. And, if you 
leave the vehicle with the engine running, it could 
overheat and even catch fire. You or others could 
be injured. Don’t leave your vehicle with the 
engine running unless you have to. 


If you have to leave your vehicle with the engine 
running, be sure your vehicle is in PARK (P) and your 
parking brake is firmly set before you leave it. After 
you’ve moved the shift lever into PARK (P), hold the 
regular brake pedal down. Then, see if you can move the 
shift lever away from PARK (P) without first pulling it 
toward you. If you can, it means that the shift lever 
wasn’t fully locked into PARK (P). 


Torque Lock (Automatic Transmission) 

If you are parking on a hill and you don’t shift your 
transmission into PARK (P) properly, the weight of the 
vehicle may put too much force on the parking pawl in 
the transmission. You may find it difficult to pull the 
shift lever out of PARK (P). This is called “torque lock.” 
To prevent torque lock, set the parking brake and then 
shift into PARK (P) properly before you leave the 
driver’s seat. To find out how, see “Shifting Into 
PARK (P)” in the Index. 

When you are ready to drive, move the shift lever out of 
PARK (P) before you release the parking brake. 

If torque lock does occur, you may need to have another 
vehicle push yours a little uphill to take some of the 
pressure from the parking pawl in the transmission, so 
you can pull the shift lever out of PARK (P). 


Shifting Out of PARK (P) 
(Automatic Transmission Only) 

Your vehicle has an automatic transmission shift lock 
control system. You have to fully apply your regular 
brake before you can shift from PARK (P) when the 
ignition is in RUN. See “Automatic Transmission 
Operation” in the Index. 

If you cannot shift out of PARK (P), ease pressure on 
the shift lever — push the shift lever all the way into 
PARK (P) as you maintain brake application. 

Then move the shift lever into the gear you want. 

If you ever hold the brake pedal down but still can’t 
shift out of PARK (P), try this: 

1 . Turn the key to OFF. 

2. Apply and hold the brake until the end of Step 4. 

3. Shift the transmission to NEUTRAL (N). 

4. Start the vehicle and then shift to the drive gear 
you want. 

5. Have the vehicle fixed as soon as you can. 


2-29 


Parking Your Vehicle (Manual 
Transmission Only) 

Before you get out of your vehicle, turn off your engine, 
put your manual transmission in REVERSE (R) and 
firmly apply the parking brake. 

If you are parking on a hill, or if your vehicle is pulling 
a trailer, see “Towing a Trailer” in the Index. 


2-30 


Parking Over Things That Burn 



A CAUTION: 


Things that can burn could touch hot exhaust 
parts under your vehicle and ignite. Don’t park 
over papers, leaves, dry grass or other things that 
can burn. 




Engine Exhaust 
A CAUTION: 

Engine exhaust can kill. It contains the gas 
carbon monoxide (CO), which you can’t see or 
smell. It can cause unconsciousness and death. 
You might have exhaust coming in if: 

• Your exhaust system sounds strange 
or different. 

• Your vehicle gets rusty underneath. 

• Your vehicle was damaged in a collision. 

• Your vehicle was damaged when driving 
over high points on the road or over 
road debris. 

• Repairs weren’t done correctly. 

• Your vehicle or exhaust system had been 
modified improperly. 

If you ever suspect exhaust is coming into 
your vehicle: 

• Drive it only with all the windows down to 
blow out any CO; and 

• Have your vehicle fixed immediately. 


Running Your Engine While You’re 
Parked (Automatic Transmission) 

It’s better not to park with the engine mnning. But if 
ever you have to, here are some things to know. 


A CAUTION: 


Idling the engine with the climate control system 
off could allow dangerous exhaust into your 
vehicle (see the earlier Caution under 
“Engine Exhaust”). 

Also, idling in a closed-in place can let deadly 
carbon monoxide (CO) into your vehicle even if 
the fan switch is at the highest setting. One place 
this can happen is a garage. Exhaust — with 
CO — can come in easily. NEVER park in a 
garage with the engine running. 

Another closed-in place can be a blizzard. 

(See “Blizzard” in the Index.) 


2-31 


A CAUTION: 


It can be dangerous to get out of your vehicle if 
the shift lever is not fully in PARK (P) with the 
parking brake firmly set. Your vehicle can roll. 
Don’t leave your vehicle when the engine is 
running unless you have to. If you’ve left the 
engine running, the vehicle can move suddenly. 
You or others could be injured. To be sure your 
vehicle won’t move, even when you’re on fairly 
level ground, always set your parking brake and 
move the shift lever to PARK (P). 


Follow the proper steps to be sure your vehicle won’t 
move. See “Shifting Into PARK (P)” in the Index. 

If you’re pulling a trailer, see “Towing a Trailer” in 
the Index. 


2-32 


Locking Rear Axle 

If your vehicle has this feature, your locking rear axle 
can give you additional traction on snow, mud, ice, sand 
or gravel. It works like a standard axle most of the time, 
but when one of the rear wheels has no traction and the 
other does, this feature will allow the wheel with 
traction to move the vehicle. 

Windows 

Manual Windows 

Turn the hand crank on each door to raise or lower your 
manual side door windows. 

Power Windows (If Equipped) 

If you have the optional power windows, the controls 
are on each of the side doors. With power windows, the 
switches control the windows when the ignition is on, in 
ACCESSORY, or when Retained Accessory Power 
(RAP) is present. (See “Retained Accessory Power” in 
the Index.) The driver’s door has a switch for the 
passenger window as well. 


Press the side of the switch 
with the down arrow to 
lower the window. 



Press the side of the switch with the up arrow to raise 
the window. 

Express-Down Window 

The driver’s window switch also has an express-down 
feature that allows you to lower it without holding the 
window switch. Hold the driver’s window switch down 
for more than a half a second to activate the 
express-down feature. Lightly tap the switch to open the 
window slightly. The express-down feature can be 
interrupted at any time by pressing the up arrow end of 
the switch. 


Swing- Out Windows (Extended Cab) 



To open a rear swing-out 
window, pull the latch 
toward the front of the 
vehicle and then push the 
latch out and rearward. 


When you close the window, be sure the latch catches. 


2-33 



Sliding Rear Window (If Equipped) 



Squeeze the latch in the center of the window and slide 
the glass to open it. 

When you close the window, be sure the latch catches. 

Horn 

Press the steering wheel pad to sound the horn. 


2-34 


Tilt Wheel (If Equipped) 



If you have the tilt steering 
wheel, you should adjust 
the steering wheel before 
you drive. 


You can raise it to the highest level to give your legs 
more room when you enter and exit the vehicle. 

To tilt the wheel, hold the steering wheel and pull the 
lever toward you. Move the steering wheel to a 
comfortable level, then release the lever to lock the 
wheel in place. 

Do not adjust the steering wheel while driving. 


Turn Signal/Multifunction Lever 



The lever on the left side of the steering column 
includes your: 

• Turn and Lane Change Signals 

• Headlamp High/Low Beam Changer 

• Flash-to-Pass 

• Windshield Wipers 

• Windshield Washer 

• Cruise Control (If Equipped) 


Turn and Lane Change Signals 

The turn signal has two upward (for right) and two 
downward (for left) positions. These positions allow you 
to signal a turn or a lane change. 

To signal a turn, move the lever all the way up 
or down. When the turn is finished, the lever will 
return automatically. 

An arrow on the instrument 
panel cluster will flash in 
the direction of the turn or 
lane change. 



To signal a lane change, just raise or lower the lever 
until the arrow starts to flash. Hold it there until you 
complete your lane change. The lever will return by 
itself when you release it. 

As you signal a turn or a lane change, if the arrows don’t 
flash but just stay on, a signal bulb may be burned out 
and other drivers won’t see your turn signal. 

If a bulb is burned out, replace it to help avoid an 
accident. If the arrows don’t go on at all when you 
signal a turn, check the fuse (see “Fuses and Circuit 
Breakers” in the Index) and for burned-out bulbs. 


2-35 


Turn Signal On Chime 

If your turn signal is left on for more than 3/4 of a mile 
(1.2 km), a chime will sound at each flash of the turn 
signal. To turn off the chime, move the turn signal lever 
to the off position. 

Headlamp High/Low Beam Changer 

To change the headlamps from low to high beam or high 
to low beam, pull the multifunction lever all the way 
toward you. Then release it. 



When the high-beam 
headlamps are on, this 
indicator light on the 
instrument panel cluster 
will also be on. 


2-36 


Flash- To-Pass Feature 


This feature lets you use your high-beam headlamps 
to signal a driver in front of you that you want to pass. 

It works even if your headlamps are in the 
automatic position. 

To use it, pull the turn signal lever toward you, but not 
so far that you hear a click. 

If your headlamps are in the automatic position or on 
low beam, your high-beam headlamps will turn on. 
They’ll stay on as long as you hold the lever toward you 
and the high-beam indicator on the dash will come on. 
Release the lever to return to normal operation. 


Windshield Wipers 



You control the windshield wipers by turning the band 
with the wiper symbol on it. 

For a single wiping cycle, turn the band to MIST. Hold 
it there until the wipers start, then let go. The wipers wi 
stop after one wipe. If you want more wipes, hold the 
band on MIST longer. 

You can set the wiper speed for a long or short delay 
between wipes. This can be very useful in light rain 
or snow. Turn the band to choose the delay time. 

The closer to LO, the shorter the delay. 


For steady wiping at low speed, turn the band away 
from you to the LO position. For high-speed wiping, 
turn the band further, to HI. To stop the wipers, turn the 
band to OFF. 

Be sure to clear ice and snow from the wiper blades 
before using them. If they’re frozen to the windshield, 
carefully loosen or thaw them. If your blades do become 
worn or damaged, get new blades or blade inserts. 

Windshield Washer 

There is a paddle marked with the windshield washer 
symbol on the top of the multifunction lever. To spray 
washer fluid on the windshield, push the paddle. The 
wipers will clear the window and then either stop or 
return to your preset speed. 


A CAUTION: 


In freezing weather, don’t use your washer until 
the windshield is warmed. Otherwise the washer 
fluid can form ice on the windshield, blocking 
your vision. 


2-37 


Cruise Control (If Equipped) 



With cruise control, you can 
maintain a speed of about 
25 mph (40 km/h) or more 
without keeping your foot 
on the accelerator. This can 
really help on long trips. 
Cruise control does not 
work at speeds below about 
25 mph (40 km/h). 


If you have an automatic transmission and you apply 
your brakes, the cruise control will shut off. 

If you have a manual transmission and you apply your 
brakes or push the clutch pedal, the cruise control will 
shut off. 


2-38 


A CAUTION: 


• Cruise control can be dangerous where you 
can’t drive safely at a steady speed. So, 
don’t use your cruise control on winding 
roads or in heavy traffic. 

• Cruise control can be dangerous on 
slippery roads. On such roads, fast changes 
in tire traction can cause needless wheel 
spinning, and you could lose control. Don’t 
use cruise control on slippery roads. 


Setting Cruise Control 


A CAUTION: 


If you leave your cruise control switch on when 
you’re not using cruise, you might hit a button 
and go into cruise when you don’t want to. You 
could be startled and even lose control. Keep the 
cruise control switch off until you want to use 
cruise control. 


1. Move the cruise control switch to ON. 

2. Get up to the speed you want. 

3. Press in the SET button at the end of the lever and 
release it. 

4. Take your foot off the accelerator pedal. 


Resuming a Set Speed 

Suppose you set your cruise control at a desired speed 
and then you apply the brake. This, of course, shuts off 
cruise control. But you don’t need to reset it. 

Once you’re going about 25 mph (40 km/h) or more, 
you can move the cruise control switch from ON to 
R/A for about a half a second. 

You’ll go right back up to your chosen speed and 
stay there. 

If you hold the switch at R/A longer than a half a 
second, the vehicle will keep going faster until you 
release the switch or apply the brake. You could be 
startled and even lose control. So unless you want to 
go faster, don’t hold the switch at R/A. 


2-39 


Increasing Speed While Using Cruise Control 

There are two ways to go to a higher speed: 

• Use the accelerator pedal to get to the higher speed. 
Press the button at the end of the lever, then release 
the button and the accelerator pedal. You’ll now 
cruise at the higher speed. 

• Move the cruise switch from ON to R/A. Hold it 
there until you get up to the speed you want, and 
then release the switch. To increase your speed in 
very small amounts, move the switch to R/A. 

Each time you do this, your vehicle will go about 
1 mph (1.6 km/h) faster. 

Reducing Speed While Using Cruise Control 

• Press in the button at the end of the lever until you 
reach the lower speed you want, then release it. 

• To slow down in very small amounts, press the 
button for less than a half a second. Each time you 
do this, you’ll go 1 mph (1.6 km/h) slower. 

Passing Another Vehicle While Using Cruise Control 

Use the accelerator pedal to increase your speed. When 

you take your foot off the pedal, your vehicle will slow 

down to the cruise control speed you set earlier. 


2-40 


Using Cruise Control on Hills 

How well your cruise control will work on hills depends 
upon your speed, load and the steepness of the hills. 
When going up steep hills, you may want to step on the 
accelerator pedal to maintain your speed. When going 
downhill, you may have to brake or shift to a lower gear 
to keep your speed down. Of course, applying the brake 
takes you out of cruise control. Many drivers find this 
to be too much trouble and don’t use cruise control 
on steep hills. 

Ending Cruise Control 

There are two ways to turn off the cruise control: 

• Step lightly on the brake pedal or push the clutch 
pedal, if you have a manual transmission. 

• Move the cruise switch to OFF. 

Erasing Speed Memory 

When you turn off the cruise control or the ignition, 
your cruise control set speed memory is erased. 


Exterior Lamps 



( 


A 




























V 


J 


Your parking lamp and headlamp switch is on the 
driver’s side of your instmment panel. 

Turn the knob clockwise to the parking lamps symbol to 
manually turn on: 

• Parking Lamps 

• Sidemarker Lamps 

• Taillamps 

• License Plate Lamps 

• Instrument Panel Lights 


Turn the knob clockwise to the master lamps symbol to 
turn on all the lamps listed as well as the headlamps. 

Turn the knob all the way counterclockwise to turn off 
your lamps and put the system in auto headlamp mode. 

Automatic Headlamp System 

When it is dark enough outside, your automatic 
headlamp system will turn on your headlamps at the 
normal brightness along with other lamps such as the 
taillamps, sidemarker, parking lamps and the instrument 
panel lights. The radio lights will also dim. 

Your vehicle is equipped with a light sensor on the 
top of the instrument panel under the radio speaker 
grill. Be sure it is not covered or the system will be on 
whenever the ignition is on. 

The system may also turn on your headlamps when 
driving through a parking garage, heavy overcast 
weather, or a tunnel. This is normal. 

There is a delay in the transition between the daytime 
and nighttime operation of the Daytime Running Lamps 
(DRL) and the automatic headlamp systems so that 
driving under bridges or bright overhead street lights does 
not affect the system. The DRL and automatic headlamp 
system will only be affected when the light sensor sees a 
change in lighting lasting longer than the delay. 


2-41 


To idle your vehicle with the automatic headlamp 
system off, set the parking brake while the ignition is 
off. Then start your vehicle. The automatic headlamp 
system will stay off until you release the parking brake. 

As with any vehicle, you should turn on the regular 
headlamp system when you need it. 

Lamps On Reminder 

A reminder chime will sound when your headlamps or 
parking lamps are manually turned on and your ignition 
is in OFF, LOCK or ACCESSORY. To turn the chime 
off, turn the knob all the way to the left or turn the 
instrument panel dimmer down to the fully dimmed 
position. In the automatic mode, the headlamps turn 
off once the ignition key is in OFF. 

Daytime Running Lamps (If Equipped) 

Daytime Running Lamps (DRL) can make it easier 
for others to see the front of your vehicle during 
the day. DRL can be helpful in many different driving 
conditions, but they can be especially helpful in the 
short periods after dawn and before sunset. 

Fully functional daytime running lights are required on 
all vehicles first sold in Canada. 


2-42 


The DRL system will make your headlamps come on at 
reduced brightness when: 

• the ignition is on, 

• the headlamp switch is in automatic headlamp mode, 

• the light sensor detects daytime light, 

• an automatic transmission is not in PARK (P), and 

• the parking brake is released. 

When the DRL are on, only your headlamps will be on. 
The taillamps, sidemarker and other lamps won’t be on. 
The instrument panel won’t be lit up either. 

When it begins to get dark, the headlamps will 
automatically switch from DRL to the regular headlamps. 

The DRL system on some vehicles may turn off 
temporarily while the turn signals are activated. 

To idle an automatic transmission vehicle with the 
DRL off, put the transmission in PARK (P) or set the 
parking brake. To idle a manual transmission vehicle 
with the DRL off, set the parking brake. The DRL will 
stay off until you shift out of PARK (P) or release the 
parking brake. 


The following does not apply to vehicles first sold in 
Canada, and to some early production vehicles. 

When necessary, you may turn off the Automatic 
Headlamp System and the Daytime Running 
Lamps (DRL) feature by following the steps below: 

1. Turn the ignition to RUN. 

2. Press the DOME OVERRIDE button four times 
within six seconds. After the fourth press of the 
button, a chime will sound informing you that the 
system is off. 

3. To return to the automatic mode, push the DOME 
OVERRIDE button four times within six seconds 
(the chime will sound), or turn the ignition to OFF 
and then to RUN again. 

As with any vehicle, you should turn on the regular 
headlamp system when you need it. 


Fog Lamps (If Equipped) 



Use your fog lamps for better vision in foggy or misty 
conditions. Your parking lamps or low-beam headlamps 
must be on for your fog lamps to work. 

The fog lamp switch is on the instrument panel under 
the lamps switch. Press the switch to turn the fog lamps 
on. Press the switch again to turn them off. A light will 
glow in the switch when the fog lamps are on. 

The fog lamps will go off whenever your high-beam 
headlamps come on. When the high-beam headlamps 
go off, the fog lamps will come on again. 


2-43 



Interior Lamps 

Brightness Control 

Turn the thumbwheel next to the headlamp switch up to 
make your instrument panel lights brighter. Turn the 
thumbwheel all the way up to turn on the interior lamps. 

Illuminated Entry 

Your vehicle is equipped with an illuminated entry feature. 

When the doors are opened, the dome lamps will come 
on if the DOME OVERRIDE button is in the “out” 
position. If your vehicle is equipped with remote keyless 
entry and all the doors are closed, or the front door 
handles are lifted and released, the lamps will stay on 
for a short period of time and will turn off automatically. 
If you use your keyless entry transmitter to unlock the 
vehicle, the interior lights will come on for a short time 
whether or not the DOME OVERRIDE button is in 
the “out” position. 

Exit Lighting 

With exit lighting, the interior lamps will come on when 
you remove the key from the ignition to help you see 


2-44 


while exiting the vehicle. These lights will stay on for a 
short period of time and then will go out, if the DOME 
OVERRIDE button is in the “out” position. 

Front Map Lamps (If Equipped) 

If your vehicle has front map lamps, they are located 
on the inside rearview mirror. They will automatically 
come on for approximately 40 seconds when the 
doors are unlocked with the keyless entry transmitter 
(if equipped) or until the ignition key is turned to 
RUN or ACCESSORY. The lamps will also stay on 
for approximately 40 seconds after you exit the 
vehicle, unless you lock the doors with the keyless 
entry transmitter. 

You can also turn the lamps on and off by pressing the 
switch near each lamp. 

Dome Lamps 

The dome lamps will come on when you open the doors. 

You can also turn the dome lamps on by turning the 
thumbwheel, located next to the parking/headlamps 
knob, all the way up to the top detent position. 

In this position, the dome lamps will remain on 
whether the doors are opened or closed. 


You can use the DOME OVERRIDE button, located 
below the parking/headlamp knob, to set the dome 
lamps to come on automatically when the doors are 
opened, or to remain off. To turn the lamps off, press the 
button into the “in” position. With the button in this 
position, the dome lamps will remain off when the doors 
are open. To return the lamps to automatic operation, 
press the button again and return it to the “out” position. 
With the button in this position, the dome lamps will 
come on when you open the door. This will override the 
illuminated entry feature, unless you use your keyless 
entry transmitter to unlock the vehicle. 

Battery Run-Down Protection 

This feature shuts off the dome, courtesy, vanity, 
reading, glove box, cargo and underhood lamps if they 
are left on for more than 20 minutes when the ignition is 
off. This will keep your battery from running down. 

If the battery run-down protection shuts off the interior 
lamps, it may be necessary to do one of the following to 
return it to normal operation: 

• Shut off all lamps and close all doors, or 

• Turn the ignition key to RUN. 


Mirrors 

Inside Day/Night Rearview Mirror 



Pull the tab under the mirror toward you to reduce glare 
from headlamps behind you after dark. Push the tab 
away from you for normal daytime operation. 

Outside Manual Adjust Mirror 

Adjust your outside mirrors so you can just see the side 
of your vehicle. 

You can fold them before entering a car wash. Pull the 
mirrors in toward the vehicle. Push the mirrors back out 
when finished. 


2-45 


Power Remote Control Mirror 



Move the upper control to the left or right to choose the 
mirror, then press the arrows on the control pad to adjust 
the mirror. 


2-46 


Convex Outside Mirror 


A convex mirror’s surface is curved so you can see more 
from the driver’s seat. 


A CAUTION: 


A convex mirror can make things (like other 
vehicles) look farther away than they really are. 
If you cut too sharply into the right or left lane, 
you could hit a vehicle. Check your inside 
mirror or glance over your shoulder before 
changing lanes. 



Heated Outside Rearview Mirrors 
(If Equipped) 


Your vehicle may be 
equipped with heated 
outside rearview mirrors. 
When you operate the 
heated mirror button 
on your climate control 
system, the defogger 
will warm the mirrors to 
help clear them of ice, 
snow or condensation. 

Storage Compartments 

Glove Box 

To open your glove box, lift the lever on the front of the 
glove box and lower the door. The glove box should not 
be open while driving. 

Door Storage 

You will find a storage compartment on each door. 



Front Storage Area 



If your vehicle has this console compartment, squeeze 
the front lever while lifting the top to open it. You can 
store cassettes and compact discs in the slots in front of 
the compartment. There is also a lift-out storage tray in 
the console. 


2-47 



If your vehicle has the center armrest compartment, lift 
the cover to expose the storage area which includes slots 
for cassettes or compact discs and a coinholder. 

Some vehicles may have a storage pocket on the back of 
the bucket or 60/40 bench seats. 


2-48 


Ashtray and Cigarette Lighter 

Rotate the front ashtray door down to open it. 


NOTICE: 


Don’t put papers and other things that burn 
into your ashtray. If you do, cigarettes or other 
smoking materials could set them on fire, 
causing damage. 


To remove the front ashtray, pull the bin upward. 

To use the lighter, press it in all the way, and let go. 
When it’s ready, it will pop back by itself. 



NOTICE: 


Don’t hold a cigarette lighter in with your hand 
while it is heating. If you do, it won’t be able to 
back away from the heating element when it’s 
ready. That can make it overload, damaging the 
lighter and the heating element. 


Sun Visors 

To block out glare, you can swing down the sun visor. 
You can also swing the visor from side to side. 

Visor Vanity Mirror 

Pull the sun visor down and lift the cover to expose the 
vanity mirror. 

Illuminated Visor Vanity Mirror 
(If Equipped) 

Pull the sun visor down and lift the mirror cover to turn 
on the lamps. 


Accessory Power Outlets 
(If Equipped) 

If you have accessory power outlets, you can plug in 
auxiliary electrical equipment. The accessory power 
outlets are located near the center of the vehicle on the 
lower part of the instrument panel. Just remove the 
plug from the outlet and follow the proper installation 
instructions that are included with any electrical 
equipment you install. 

These circuits are protected by a fuse and have 
maximum current levels. 


NOTICE: 


When using the accessory power outlets, 
maximum electrical load must not exceed 
20 amps. Always turn off any electrical 
equipment when not in use. Leaving electrical 
equipment on for extended periods will drain 
your battery. 


2-49 


Instrument Panel - Your Information System 



C. Transfer Case (If Equipped) G. Auxiliary Power Outlets K. Brake Release 

D. Glove Box (If Equipped) p Fog Lamps (If Equipped) 

E. Audio System H - Comfort Controls M . Lamp Controls 


2-50 










Instrument Panel Cluster 

Your instrument cluster is designed to let you know at a glance how your vehicle is running. You’ll know how fast you’re 
going, about how much fuel you’ve used, and many other things you’ll need to know to drive safely and economically. 



2-51 



2-52 


Speedometer and Odometer 

Your speedometer lets you see your speed in both miles 
per hour (mph) and kilometers per hour (km/h). 

Your odometer shows how far your vehicle has been 
driven, in either miles (used in the United States) or 
kilometers (used in Canada). 

The odometer mileage can be checked without the 
vehicle running. Simply press the trip odometer button. 

You may wonder what happens if your vehicle needs a 
new odometer installed. If the new one can be set to the 
mileage total of the old odometer, then it must be. But if 
it can’t, then it’s set at zero, and a label must be put on 
the driver’s door to show the old mileage reading when 
the new odometer was installed. 

Trip Odometer 

The trip odometer can tell you how far your vehicle has 
been driven since you last set the trip odometer to zero. 

To view the trip odometer, press the button near the 
readout. To reset the trip odometer, hold the button until 
it clears. 


Tachometer (If Equipped) 

The tachometer displays the engine speed in revolutions 
per minute (rpm). 

Each tachometer has a different limit depending on the 
powertrain in your vehicle. The tachometer has three 
areas: normal operating range, red warning range and 
red danger range. 

The normal operating range shows your engine speed 
during normal driving conditions. For example, when 
the needle points to 2, it means the engine is running at 
2,000 revolutions per minute (rpm). The tachometer 
needle will vary all the time that the engine is running. 

The shaded red warning range tells you that your engine 
speed is reaching its upper limits. Don’t drive very long 
with the tachometer in the red warning range. If you 
have a manual transmission, shift to a higher gear as 
soon as possible. If you have an automatic transmission, 
lift your foot off the accelerator pedal. 

The solid red danger range tells you that your engine 
speed is at its upper limits. You should immediately 
shift to a higher gear, or lift your foot off the 
accelerator pedal. 


2-53 


NOTICE: 


Do not operate the engine with the tachometer in 
the red range, or engine damage will occur. 


Warning Lights, Gages and Indicators 

This part describes the warning lights and gages that 
may be on your vehicle. The pictures will help you 
locate them. 

Warning lights and gages can signal that something is 
wrong before it becomes serious enough to cause an 
expensive repair or replacement. Paying attention to 
your warning lights and gages could also save you or 
others from injury. 

Warning lights come on when there may be or is a 
problem with one of your vehicle’s functions. As you 
will see in the details on the next few pages, some 
warning lights come on briefly when you start the 
engine just to let you know they’re working. If you are 
familiar with this section, you should not be alarmed 
when this happens. 


2-54 


Gages can indicate when there may be or is a problem 
with one of your vehicle’s functions. Often gages and 
warning lights work together to let you know when 
there’s a problem with your vehicle. 

When one of the warning lights comes on and stays on 
when you are driving, or when one of the gages shows 
there may be a problem, check the section that tells you 
what to do about it. Please follow this manual’s advice. 
Waiting to do repairs can be costly -- and even 
dangerous. So please get to know your warning lights 
and gages. They’re a big help. 

Safety Belt Reminder Light 

When the key is turned to RUN or START, a chime will 
come on for about eight seconds to remind people to 
fasten their safety belts, unless the driver’s safety belt is 
already buckled. 



The safety belt light will 
also come on and stay on 
for about 20 seconds, then 
it will flash for about 
55 seconds. 


If the driver’s belt is already buckled, neither the tone 
nor the light will come on. 


Air Bag Readiness Light 

There is an air bag readiness light on the instrument 
panel, which shows the air bag symbol. The system 
checks the air bag’s electrical system for malfunctions. 
The light tells you if there is an electrical problem. The 
system check includes the air bag sensors, the air bag 
modules, the wiring, the passenger air bag suppression 
circuit and the crash sensing and diagnostic module. For 
more information on the air bag system, see “Air Bag” 
in the Index. 



This light will come on 
when you start your vehicle, 
and it will flash for a few 
seconds. Then the light 
should go out. This means 
the system is ready. 


If the air bag readiness light stays on after you start the 
vehicle or comes on when you are driving, your air bag 
system may not work properly. Have your vehicle 
serviced right away. 


A CAUTION: 


If the air bag readiness light stays on after you 
start your vehicle, it means the air bag system 
may not be working properly. The air bags in 
your vehicle may not inflate in a crash, or they 
could even inflate without a crash. To help avoid 
injury to yourself or others, have your vehicle 
serviced right away if the air bag readiness light 
stays on after you start your vehicle. 


The air bag readiness light should flash for a few 
seconds when you turn the ignition key to RUN. If the 
light doesn’t come on then, have it fixed so it will be 
ready to warn you if there is a problem. 


2-55 


AIR BAG OFF Light 

When you turn the right front passenger’s air bag off, 
this light will come on and stay on to remind you that 
the air bag has been turned off. This light will go off 
when you turn the air bag back on again. See “AIR BAG 
OFF Switch” in the Index for more on this, including 
important safety information. 



2-56 


A CAUTION: 


If the right front passenger’s air bag is turned off 
for a person who isn’t in a risk group identified 
by the national government, that person won’t 
have the extra protection of an air bag. In a 
crash, the air bag wouldn’t be able to inflate and 
help protect the person sitting there. 

Don’t turn off the passenger’s air bag unless the 
person sitting there is in a risk group identified 
by the national government. See “AIR BAG OFF 
Switch” in the Index for more on this, including 
important safety information. 



A CAUTION: 


If the air bag readiness light ever comes on when 
you have turned off the air bag, it means that 
something may be wrong with the air bag system. 
The right front passenger’s air bag could inflate 
even though the switch is off. If this ever 
happens, don’t let anyone whom the national 
government has identified as a member of a 
passenger air bag risk group sit in the right front 
passenger’s position (for example, don’t secure a 
rear-facing child restraint in your vehicle) until 
you have your vehicle serviced. 


Charging System Indicator Light 



The charging system light 
will come on briefly when 
you turn on the ignition, but 
the engine is not running, as 
a check to show you it 
is working. 


It should go out once the engine is running. If it stays 
on, or comes on while you are driving, you may have a 
problem with the charging system. It could indicate that 
you have problems with a generator drive belt, or 
another electrical problem. Have it checked right away. 
Driving while this light is on could drain your battery. 

If you must drive a short distance with the light on, be 
certain to turn off all your accessories, such as the radio 
and air conditioner. 


2-57 


Voltmeter Gage 



When your engine is not 
running, but the ignition is 
on (in RUN), this gage 
shows your battery’s state of 
charge in DC volts. 


When the engine is running, the gage shows the 
condition of the charging system. Readings between the 
low and high warning zones indicate the normal 
operating range. 

Readings in the low warning zone may occur when a 
large number of electrical accessories are operating in 
the vehicle and the engine is left at an idle for an 
extended period. This condition is normal since the 
charging system is not able to provide full power at 
engine idle. As engine speeds are increased, this 
condition should correct itself as higher engine speeds 
allow the charging system to create maximum power. 


2-58 


You can only drive for a short time with the reading in 
either warning zone. If you must drive, turn off all 
unnecessary accessories. 

Readings in either warning zone indicate a possible 
problem in the electrical system. Have the vehicle 
serviced as soon as possible. 


You have the shift 
light if you have a 
manual transmission. 


Shift Light 



Shifting when the indicator light is on will help you get 
the best fuel economy. See “Shift Light” in the Index. 


Brake System Warning Light 

When the ignition is on, the brake system warning light 
will come on when you set your parking brake. The light 
will stay on if your parking brake doesn’t release fully. 

If it stays on after your parking brake is fully released, it 
means you have a brake problem. 

Your vehicle’s hydraulic brake system is divided into 
two parts. If one part isn’t working, the other part can 
still work and stop you. For good braking, though, you 
need both parts working well. 

If the warning light comes on, there could be a brake 
problem. Have your brake system inspected right away. 



BRAKE 


United States 


Canada 


This light should come on briefly when you turn the 
ignition key to RUN. If it doesn’t come on then, have it 
fixed so it will be ready to warn you if there’s a problem. 

If the light comes on while you are driving, pull off the 
road and stop carefully. You may notice that the pedal is 
harder to push. Or, the pedal may go closer to the floor. 

It may take longer to stop. If the light is still on, have the 
vehicle towed for service. (See “Towing Your Vehicle” 
in the Index.) 


A CAUTION: 


Your brake system may not be working properly 
if the brake system warning light is on. Driving 
with the brake system warning light on can lead 
to an accident. If the light is still on after you’ve 
pulled off the road and stopped carefully, have 
the vehicle towed for service. 


2-59 


Anti-Lock Brake System Warning Light 



With the anti-lock brake 
system, this light will come 
on when you start your 
engine and may stay on 
for several seconds. 

That’s normal. 


If the light stays on, or comes on when you’re driving, 
your vehicle needs service. If the regular brake system 
warning light isn’t on, you still have brakes, but you 
don’t have anti-lock brakes. If the regular brake system 
warning light is also on, you don’t have anti-lock brakes 
and there’s a problem with your regular brakes. See 
“Brake System Warning Light” earlier in this section. 

The anti-lock brake system warning light should come 
on briefly when you turn the ignition key to RUN. If the 
light doesn’t come on then, have it fixed so it will be 
ready to warn you if there is a problem. 


2-60 


Engine Coolant Temperature Gage 



United States 



This gage shows the engine coolant temperature. 

If the gage pointer moves into the red area, your engine 
is too hot! 

It means that your engine coolant has overheated. If you 
have been operating your vehicle under normal driving 
conditions, you should pull off the road, stop your 
vehicle and turn off the engine as soon as possible. 

The “Problems on the Road” section of this manual 
shows you what to do. See “Engine Overheating” in 
the Index. 


Malfunction Indicator Lamp 
(Service Engine Soon Light) 


SERVICE 

ENGINE 

SOON 


United States 


o 

Canada 


Your vehicle is equipped with a computer which 
monitors operation of the fuel, ignition and emission 
control systems. 

This system is called OBD II (On-Board 
Diagnostics-Second Generation) and is intended to 
assure that emissions are at acceptable levels for the life 
of the vehicle, helping to produce a cleaner 
environment. The SERVICE ENGINE SOON light 
comes on to indicate that there is a problem and service 
is required. Malfunctions often will be indicated by the 
system before any problem is apparent. This may 
prevent more serious damage to your vehicle. This 
system is also designed to assist your service technician 
in correctly diagnosing any malfunction. 


NOTICE: 


If you keep driving your vehicle with this light 
on, after a while, your emission controls may not 
work as well, your fuel economy may not be as 
good and your engine may not run as smoothly. 
This could lead to costly repairs that may not be 
covered by your warranty. 


NOTICE: 


Modifications made to the engine, transmission, 
exhaust or fuel system of your vehicle or the 
replacement of the original tires with other than 
those of the same Tire Performance Criteria 
(TPC) can affect your vehicle’s emission controls 
and may cause the SERVICE ENGINE SOON 
light to come on. Modifications to these systems 
could lead to costly repairs not covered by your 
warranty. This may also result in a failure to pass 
a required Emission Inspection/Maintenance test. 


2-61 


This light should come on, as a check to show you it is 
working, when the ignition is on and the engine is not 
running. If the light doesn’t come on, have it repaired. 
This light will also come on during a malfunction in one 
of two ways: 

• Light Flashing -- A misfire condition has been 
detected. A misfire increases vehicle emissions and 
may damage the emission control system on your 
vehicle. Dealer or qualified service center diagnosis 
and service may be required. 

• Light On Steady — An emission control system 
malfunction has been detected on your vehicle. 
Dealer or qualified service center diagnosis and 
service may be required. 

If the Light Is Flashing 

The following may prevent more serious damage to 
your vehicle: 

• Reducing vehicle speed. 

• Avoiding hard accelerations. 

• Avoiding steep uphill grades. 

• If you are towing a trailer, reduce the amount of 
cargo being hauled as soon as it is possible. 


2-62 


If the light stops flashing and remains on steady, see 
“If the Light Is On Steady” following. 

If the light continues to flash, when it is safe to do so, 
stop the vehicle. Find a safe place to park your vehicle. 
Turn the key off, wait at least 10 seconds and restart the 
engine. If the light remains on steady, see “If the Light 
Is On Steady” following. If the light is still flashing, 
follow the previous steps, and drive the vehicle to your 
dealer or qualified service center for service. 

If the Light Is On Steady 

You may be able to correct the emission system 
malfunction by considering the following: 

Did you recently put fuel into your vehicle? 

If so, reinstall the fuel cap, making sure to fully install 
the cap. See “Filling Your Tank” in the Index. The 
diagnostic system can determine if the fuel cap has been 
left off or improperly installed. A loose or missing fuel 
cap will allow fuel to evaporate into the atmosphere. A 
few driving trips with the cap properly installed should 
turn the light off. 

Did you just drive through a deep puddle of water? 

If so, your electrical system may be wet. The condition 
will usually be corrected when the electrical system 
dries out. A few driving trips should turn the light off. 


Have you recently changed brands of fuel? 

If so, be sure to fuel your vehicle with quality fuel 
(see “Fuel” in the Index). Poor fuel quality will cause 
your engine not to run as efficiently as designed. 

You may notice this as stalling after start-up, stalling 
when you put the vehicle into gear, misfiring, hesitation 
on acceleration or stumbling on acceleration. 

(These conditions may go away once the engine is 
warmed up.) This will be detected by the system and 
cause the light to turn on. 

If you experience one or more of these conditions, 
change the fuel brand you use. It will require at least one 
full tank of the proper fuel to turn the light off. 

If none of the above steps have made the light turn off, 
have your dealer or qualified service center check the 
vehicle. Your dealer has the proper test equipment and 
diagnostic tools to fix any mechanical or electrical 
problems that may have developed. 


Emissions Inspection and Maintenance Programs 

Some state/provincial and local governments have or may 
begin programs to inspect the emission control equipment 
on your vehicle. Failure to pass this inspection could 
prevent you from getting a vehicle registration. 

Here are some things you need to know in order to help 
your vehicle pass an inspection: 

Your vehicle will not pass this inspection if the SERVICE 
ENGINE SOON light is on or not working properly. 

Your vehicle will not pass this inspection if the OBD 
(on-board diagnostic) system determines that critical 
emission control systems have not been completely 
diagnosed by the system. The vehicle would be 
considered not ready for inspection. This can happen if 
you have recently replaced your battery or if your 
battery has run down. The diagnostic system is designed 
to evaluate critical emission control systems during 
normal driving. This may take several days of routine 
driving. If you have done this and your vehicle still does 
not pass the inspection for lack of OBD system 
readiness, see your dealer or qualified service center to 
prepare the vehicle for inspection. 


2-63 


Oil Pressure Gage 




United States Canada 

The oil pressure gage shows the engine oil pressure 
in psi (pounds per square inch) when the engine is 
running. Canadian vehicles indicate oil pressure 
in kPa (kilopascals). 


2-64 


A CAUTION: 


Don’t keep driving if the oil pressure is low. 

If you do, your engine can become so hot that it 
catches fire. You or others could be burned. 
Check your oil as soon as possible and have your 
vehicle serviced. 


NOTICE: 


Damage to your engine from neglected oil 
problems can be costly and is not covered by 
your warranty. 


Oil pressure may vary with engine speed, outside 
temperature and oil viscosity, but readings above the 
low pressure zone indicate the normal operating range. 

A reading in the low pressure zone may be caused by a 
dangerously low oil level or other problems causing low 
oil pressure. 


Security Warning Light 


SECURITY 


This light will come on 
briefly when you turn the 
key toward START. The 
light will stay on until the 
engine starts. 


(R) 

If the light flashes, the Passlock system has entered a 
tamper mode. If the vehicle fails to start, see “Passlock” 
in the Index. 

If the light comes on continuously while driving and 
stays on, there may be a problem with the Passlock 
system. Your vehicle will not be protected by Passlock, 
and you should see your dealer. 

Also see “Content Theft-Deterrent” in the Index for 
additional information regarding the SECURITY light. 


Service Four- Wheel-Drive Warning Light 

If your vehicle is equipped with the Automatic 
Four- Wheel-Drive Transfer Case, it has a computer 
which controls the four-wheel-drive system. 

This light should come on 
briefly when you turn on the 
ignition, as a check to show 
you it is working. 


SERVICE 

4WD 


The SERVICE 4WD light comes on to indicate that 
there may be a problem with the four-wheel-drive 
system and service is required. Malfunctions can be 
indicated by the system before any problem is apparent, 
which may prevent serious damage to the vehicle. This 
system is also designed to assist your service technician 
in correctly diagnosing a malfunction. 


2-65 


Check Gages Light 


CHECK 

GAGES 


If this light comes on 
and stays on while you 
are driving, check your 
coolant temperature 
and engine oil pressure 
gages to see if they are 
in the warning zones. 


Fuel Gage 



When the ignition is on, the 
fuel gage tells you about 
how much fuel you 
have remaining. 


2-66 


Here are four things that some owners ask about. 

None of these show a problem with your fuel gage: 

• At the gas station, the gas pump shuts off before the 
gage reads F (Full). 

• It takes a little more or less fuel to fill up than the gage 
indicated. For example, the gage may have indicated 
the tank was half full, but it actually took a little more 
or less than half the tank’s capacity to fill the tank. 

• The gage moves a little when you turn a corner 
or speed up. 

• The gage doesn’t go back to E (Empty) when you 
turn off the ignition. 

Low Fuel Light 


LOW 

FUEL 


This light comes on briefly 
when you start your engine. 


This light comes on when the fuel tank is low on fuel. 

To turn it off, add fuel to the fuel tank. See “Fuel” 
in the Index. 


Section 3 Comfort Controls and Audio Systems 


In this section, you’ll find out how to operate the comfort control and audio systems offered with your vehicle. 
Be sure to read about the particular systems supplied with your vehicle. 


3-2 

Comfort Controls 

3-2 

Standard Climate Control System 

3-3 

Optional Climate Control System 

3-4 

Air Conditioning (If Equipped) 

3-4 

Heating 

3-5 

Defogging and Defrosting 

3-5 

Ventilation System 

3-6 

Audio Systems 

3-6 

Setting the Clock for Systems 
with SET Button 

3-6 

Setting the Clock for Systems 
with HR and MN Buttons 

3-7 

AM-FM Stereo 


3-9 AM-FM Stereo with Cassette Tape 

Player (If Equipped) 

3-12 AM-FM Stereo with Cassette Tape Player and 
Automatic Tone Control (If Equipped) 

3-16 AM-FM Stereo with Compact Disc Player and 
Automatic Tone Control (If Equipped) 

3-20 Remote Cassette Tape Player (If Equipped) 
3-22 Theft-Deterrent Feature (If Equipped) 

3-24 Understanding Radio Reception 

3-24 Tips About Your Audio System 

3-25 Care of Your Cassette Tape Player 

3-26 Care of Your Compact Discs 

3-26 Care of Your Compact Disc Player 

3-26 Fixed Mast Antenna 


3-1 


Comfort Controls 

With these systems, you can control the heating, cooling 
and ventilation in your vehicle. 

Standard Climate Control System 



Fan Control 

The knob on the left side of the heating system control panel 
controls the fan speed. To increase airflow, turn the knob 
clockwise. To decrease airflow, turn it counterclockwise. 

Temperature Knob 

The middle knob on the control panel lets you select 
the relative temperature of the air flowing into the 
passenger area of your vehicle. Turn the knob clockwise 
toward the red area for warmer air. Turn the knob 
counterclockwise toward the blue area for cooler air. 


3-2 


Mode Knob 


The right knob on the control panel allows you to 
choose the direction of air delivery. 

OFF : This setting turns the system off. Some outside 
air will still enter the vehicle whenever the vehicle is 
moving forward. 

f VENT: This setting directs most of the air through 
the instrument panel outlets and a small amount through 
the floor outlets. 

V* BI-LEVEL: Air is delivered through the heater 
floor outlets as well as the instrument panel outlets. 

HEATER: This setting directs most of the 
warmed air through the heater floor outlets and some 
air through the windshield defroster outlets. 

BLEND: Airflow is divided equally between the 
heater floor outlet and the windshield defroster outlets. 

DEFROST: This setting directs most air through 
the windshield defroster outlets and some through the 
heater outlets. 


Optional Climate Control System 



Fan Control 

The knob on the left side of the heating system 
control panel controls the fan speed. To increase airflow 
turn the knob clockwise. To decrease airflow, turn 
it counterclockwise. 

Temperature Knob 

The middle knob on the control panel lets you select 
the relative temperature of the air flowing into the 
passenger area of your vehicle. Turn the knob clockwise 
toward the red area for warmer air. Turn the knob 
counterclockwise toward the blue area for cooler air. 


Mode Knob 


The right knob on the control panel allows you to 
choose the direction of air delivery. 

OFF: This setting turns the system off. Some outside 
air will still enter the vehicle whenever the vehicle is 
moving forward. 

MAX A/C: This setting provides maximum cooling 
with the least amount of work. MAX A/C recirculates 
much of the air inside your vehicle so it cools quickly. 
This setting directs most of the air through the 
instrument panel vents and a small amount through 
the floor vents. 

A/C: This setting cools the air entering your vehicle and 
directs most of the air through the instrument panel 
vents and a small amount through the floor vents. 

W BI-LEVEL A/C: This setting cools the air 
entering your vehicle and directs it through the heater 
floor outlets as well as the instrument panel outlets. 

VENT: This setting directs most of the air through 
the instrument panel outlets and a small amount through 
the floor outlets. The air conditioning compressor is not 
working when VENT is selected. 


3-3 


HEATER: This setting directs most of the 
warmed air through the heater floor outlets and some air 
through the windshield defroster outlets. 

V* BLEND: Airflow is divided equally between the 
heater floor outlet and the windshield defroster outlets. 

DEFROST: This setting directs most air through 
the windshield defroster outlets and some through the 
heater outlets. 

Air Conditioning (If Equipped) 

On hot days, open the windows long enough to let hot 
inside air escape. This reduces the time it takes for your 
vehicle to cool down. Then keep your windows closed 
for the air conditioner to work its best. 

For quick cool-down on very hot days, use MAX A/C 
with the temperature knob turned counterclockwise. 

This setting should be used to keep odors and/or dust 
from entering the vehicle. For normal cooling on 
hot days, use A/C with the temperature knob 
turned counterclockwise. 


3-4 


On cool but sunny days, use BI-LEVEL A/C to deliver 
warm air to the floor and cooler air to the instrument 
panel outlets. 

If you have the VORTEC 4300 V6 engine, when the 
air conditioner is on, you may sometimes notice slight 
changes in your vehicle’s engine speed and power. This 
is normal because the system is designed to cycle the 
compressor on and off to keep the desired temperature. 

Heating 

The heater works best if you keep your windows closed 
while using it. On cold days, use HEATER with the 
temperature knob turned clockwise. BLEND is useful in 
cool weather when you have fog or ice on the 
windshield or side windows. 

If you use the optional engine coolant heater before 
starting your engine, your heating system will produce 
warmer air faster to heat the passenger compartment in 
cold weather. See “Engine Coolant Heater” in the Index. 


Defogging and Defrosting 

On cool, humid days, use BLEND to keep the 
windshield and side windows clear. 

Use DEFROST to remove fog or ice from the 
windshield quickly in extreme humid or cold conditions. 
Turn the temperature knob clockwise and turn the fan 
control toward high. 

If you have the heated outside mirror feature, you can 
use it to defog or defrost your outside mirrors. For more 
information, see “Heated Outside Mirrors” in the Index. 

Ventilation System 

For mild outside temperatures when little heating or 
cooling is needed, use VENT to direct outside air 
through your vehicle. Airflow is through the instrument 
panel outlets. 

Your vehicle’s ventilation system supplies outside air to 
the inside of your vehicle when it is moving. When the 
vehicle is not moving, you can get outside air to flow 
through by selecting any mode and any fan speed. 



You will find air outlets in the center and on the sides of 
your instrument panel. 

You can direct the airflow side-to-side by moving the 
thumbwheel located in the center of the vent. The vent 
can be tilted up and down also. To control the amount 
of airflow through the outlets, move the thumbwheel 
below the vent. 


3-5 



Ventilation Tips 

• Keep the hood and front air inlet free of ice, snow or 
any other obstruction (such as leaves). The heater 
and defroster will work far better, reducing the 
chance of fogging the inside of your windows. 

• When you enter a vehicle in cold weather, turn the 
fan control to high for a few moments before driving 
off. This helps clear the intake ducts of snow and 
moisture, and reduces the chance of fogging the 
inside of your windows. 

• Keep the air path under the front seats clear of 
objects. This helps air to circulate throughout 
your vehicle. 

Audio Systems 

Your audio system has been designed to operate easily 
and give years of listening pleasure. You will get the 
most enjoyment out of it if you acquaint yourself with it 
first. Find out what your audio system can do and how 
to operate all its controls, to be sure you’re getting the 
most out of the advanced engineering that went into it. 


3-6 


Setting the Clock for Systems with 
SET Button 

Press SET. Within five seconds, press and hold the 
SEEK right arrow until the correct minute appears on 
the display. Press and hold the SEEK left arrow until the 
correct hour appears on the display. 

Setting the Clock for Systems with HR and 
MN Buttons 

Press and hold HR until the correct hour appears on the 
display. Press and hold MN until the correct minute 
appears on the display. To display the clock with the 
ignition off, press RECALL or HR/MN and the time 
will be displayed for a few seconds. There is an initial 
two-second delay before the clock goes into the 
time- set mode. 


AM-FM Stereo 



Playing the Radio 

VOLUME: This knob turns the system on and off and 
controls the volume. To increase volume and turn the radio 
on, turn the knob clockwise. Turn it counterclockwise to 
decrease volume and turn the radio off. 

RECALL: Display the time with the ignition off by 
pressing the recall knob. When the radio is playing, 
press this knob to recall the station frequency. 


Finding a Station 

AM-FM: Press the lower knob to switch between 
AM and FM. The display shows your selection. 

TUNE: Turn the lower knob to tune in radio stations. 

SEEK: Press the right arrow to tune to the next higher 
station and the left arrow to tune to the next lower 
station and stay there. 

SCAN: Select either AM, FM1 or FM2 mode and press 
both SEEK buttons to listen to a few seconds of each 
radio station. SCAN will light up on the display. 

The radio will automatically SCAN to the next higher 
station, play that station for a few seconds, then SCAN 
to the next higher station. Press VOLUME or both 
SEEK buttons to stop scanning. 


3-7 




PUSHBUTTONS: The four numbered pushbuttons 
let you return to your favorite stations. You can set up to 
14 stations (seven AM and seven FM). Just: 

1. Turn the radio on. 

2. Press AM-FM to select the band. 

3. Tune in the desired station. 

4. Press SET. (SET will appear on the display.) 

5. Press one of the four pushbuttons within five 
seconds. Whenever you press that numbered button, 
the station you set will return. 

6. Repeat the steps for each pushbutton. 

In addition to the four stations already set, up to three 
more stations may be preset on each band by pressing 
two adjoining buttons at the same time. Just: 

1. Tune in the desired station. 

2. Press SET. (SET will appear on the display.) 


3-8 


3. Press two adjoining buttons at the same time, within 
five seconds. Whenever you press the same 

two buttons, the station you set will return. 

4. Repeat the steps for each pair of pushbuttons. 

Setting the Tone 

BASS: Slide this lever up or down to increase or 
decrease bass. 

TREB: Slide this lever up or down to increase or 
decrease treble. If a station is weak or noisy, you may 
want to decrease the treble. 

Adjusting the Speakers 

BAL: Turn the control behind the upper knob to move 
the sound to the left or right speakers. The middle 
position balances the sound between the speakers. 

FADE: Turn the control behind the lower knob to move 
the sound to the front or rear speakers. The middle 
position balances the sound between the speakers. 


AM-FM Stereo with Cassette Tape Player 
(If Equipped) 



Playing the Radio 

VOLUME: This knob turns the system on and off and 
controls the volume. To increase volume and nun the radio 
on, turn the knob clockwise. Turn it counterclockwise to 
decrease volume and nun the radio off. 

RECALL: Display the time with the ignition off by 
pressing this knob. When the radio is playing, press this 
knob to recall the station frequency. 


Finding a Station 

AM-FM: Press the lower knob to switch between AM, 
FM1 and FM2. 

TUNE: Turn the lower knob to tune in radio stations. 

SEEK: Press the right arrow to tune to the next 
higher station and the left arrow to tune to the next 
lower station. 

PUSHBUTTONS: The four numbered pushbuttons let 
you return to your favorite stations. You can set up to 
21 stations (seven AM, seven FM1 and seven FM2). Just: 

1 . Turn the radio on. 

2. Press AM-FM to select the band. 

3. Tune in the desired station. 

4. Press SET. (SET will appear on the display.) 

5. Press one of the four pushbuttons within five 
seconds. Whenever you press that numbered button, 
the station you set will return. 

6. Repeat the steps for each pushbutton. 


3-9 



In addition to the four stations already set, up to 
three more stations may be preset on each band by 
pressing two adjoining buttons at the same time. Just: 

1. Tune in the desired station. 

2. Press SET. (SET will appear on the display.) 

3. Press two adjoining buttons at the same time, within 
five seconds. Whenever you press the same two 
buttons, the station you set will return. 

4. Repeat the steps for each pair of pushbuttons. 

P.SCAN: Select either AM, FM1 or FM2 mode and 
press both SEEK buttons to scan through each of your 
preset stations. The system will scan through and play 
each preset station stored on your pushbuttons for a few 
seconds. Press either SEEK button or RECALL to stop 
scanning through the preset stations. 


3-10 


Setting the Tone 

BASS: Slide this lever up or down to increase or 
decrease bass. 

TREB: Slide this lever up or down to increase or 
decrease treble. If a station is weak or noisy, you may 
want to decrease the treble. 

Adjusting the Speakers 

BAL: Turn the control behind the upper knob to move 
the sound to the left or right speakers. The middle 
position balances the sound between the speakers. 

FADE: Turn the control behind the lower knob to move 
the sound to the front or rear speakers. The middle 
position balances the sound between the speakers. 


Playing a Cassette Tape 

Your tape player is built to work best with tapes that are 
up to 30 to 45 minutes long on each side. Tapes longer 
than that are so thin they may not work well in this player. 

Once the tape is playing, use the knobs for VOLUME, 
BAL, FADE, BASS and TREB just as you do for 
the radio. 

REV: Press the SEEK left arrow to reverse the 
cassette tape. Press the SEEK right arrow to stop 
reversing the tape. 

FWD: Press the SEEK right arrow to advance the 
cassette tape. Press the SEEK left arrow to stop 
forwarding the tape. 

RECALL: Press this knob to switch tape sides. 

EJECT: Press this button to remove the tape or stop 
the tape and play the radio. 

CLN: If this message appears on the display, the 
cassette tape player needs to be cleaned. It will still play 
tapes, but you should clean it as soon as possible to 
prevent damage to the tapes and player. See “Care of 
Your Cassette Tape Player” in the Index. After you clean 
the player, press and hold EJECT for five seconds to 
reset the CLN indicator. The radio will display — to 
show the indicator was reset. 


CD Adapter Kits 

It is possible to use a portable CD player adapter kit 
with your cassette tape player after activating the bypass 
feature on your tape player. 

To activate the bypass feature, use the following steps: 

1 . Turn the radio on. 

2. Insert the adapter into the cassette slot. 

3. Within five seconds, press and hold the REV and 
FWD buttons at the same time for three seconds. 

The tape symbol on the display will flash, showing 
that the cut tape detection feature is no longer active. 

This override routine will remain active until EJECT 
is pressed. 


3-11 


AM-FM Stereo with Cassette Tape Player 
and Automatic Tone Control (If Equipped) 



Playing the Radio 

PWR-VOL: Press this knob to turn the system on and 
off. To increase volume, turn the knob clockwise. Turn 
it counterclockwise to decrease volume. The knob is 
capable of being rotated continuously. 

RECALL: Display the time with the ignition off by 
pressing this button. When the radio is playing, press 
this button to recall the station frequency. 


3-12 


SCV: Your system has a feature called 
Speed-Compensated Volume (SCV). With SCV, your 
audio system adjusts automatically to make up for road 
and wind noise as you drive. Set the volume at the 
desired level. Turn the control ring behind the upper 
knob clockwise to adjust the SCV. Then, as you drive, 
SCV automatically increases the volume, as necessary, 
to overcome noise at any particular speed. The volume 
level should always sound the same to you as you drive. 
If you don't want to use SCV, turn the control all the 
way down. Each notch on the control ring allows for 
more volume compensation at faster vehicle speeds. 

Linding a Station 

AM-LM: Press this button to switch between AM, FM1 
and FM2. The display will show your selection. 

TUNE: Press this knob lightly so it extends. Turn it to 
choose radio stations. Push the knob back into its stored 
position when you’re not using it. 

SEEK: Press the right arrow to tune to the next higher 
station and the left arrow to tune to the next lower station 
and stay there. The sound will mute while seeking. 




SCAN: Press and hold SEEK for two seconds until 
SCAN appears on the display. SCAN allows you to 
listen to stations for a few seconds. The receiver will 
continue to scan and momentarily stop at each station 
until you press the button again. The sound will mute 
while scanning. 

PUSHBUTTONS: The six numbered pushbuttons let 
you return to your favorite stations. You can set up to 
18 stations (six AM, six FM1 and six FM2). Just: 

1. Turn the radio on. 

2. Press AM-FM to select the band. 

3. Tune in the desired station. 

4. Press AUTO TONE to select the setting you prefer. 

5. Press and hold one of the six pushbuttons. The sound 
will mute. When it returns, release the button. 
Whenever you press that numbered button, the 
station you set will return and the tone you selected 
will be automatically selected for that button. 

6. Repeat the steps for each pushbutton. 


P.SCAN: The preset scan button lets you scan through 
your favorite stations stored on your pushbuttons. 

Select either the AM, FM1 or FM2 mode and then press 
P. SCAN. It will scan through each station stored on your 
pushbuttons and stop for a few seconds before continuing 
to scan through all of the pushbuttons. Press P. SCAN 
again or one of the pushbuttons to stop scanning to listen 
to a specific preset station. P. SCAN will light up on the 
display while in this mode. If one of the stations stored on 
a pushbutton is too weak for the location you are in, the 
radio display will show the channel number (P1-P6) for 
several seconds before advancing to the next preset station. 

Setting the Tone 

BASS: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the knob clockwise to increase bass 
and counterclockwise to decrease bass. When the BASS 
control is rotated, the AUTO TONE display will go blank. 

TREE: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the knob clockwise to increase 
treble and counterclockwise to decrease treble. When 
the TREB control is rotated, the AUTO TONE display 
will go blank. If a station is weak or noisy, you may 
want to decrease the treble. 

Push these knobs back into their stored positions when 
you’re not using them. 


3-13 


AUTO TONE: Press this button to select among the 
six preset equalization settings and tailor the sound to the 
music or voice being heard. Each time you press the 
button, the selection will switch to one of the preset 
settings of CLASSIC, NEWS, ROCK, POP, C/W 
(Country/Western) or JAZZ. To return to the manual 
mode, press and release this button until the AUTO TONE 
display goes blank. This will return the tone adjustment to 
the BASS and TREB controls. If a BASS or TREB 
control is rotated, the AUTO TONE display will go blank. 
Use PUSHBUTTONS to program AUTO TONE. 

Adjusting the Speakers 

BAL: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the control clockwise to adjust 
sound to the right speakers and counterclockwise to 
adjust sound to the left speakers. The middle position 
balances the sound between the speakers. 

FADE: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the control clockwise to adjust the 
sound to the front speakers and counterclockwise for the 
rear speakers. The middle position balances the sound 
between the speakers. 

Push these knobs back into their stored positions when 
you’re not using them. 


3-14 


Playing a Cassette Tape 

Your tape player is built to work best with tapes that are 
up to 30 to 45 minutes long on each side. Tapes longer 
than that are so thin they may not work well in this player. 

To load a cassette tape with the ignition off, press EJECT 
or RECALL. Then, insert the cassette tape. If the ignition 
is on but the radio is off, the tape will begin playing. 

Once the tape is playing, use the VOL, AUTO TONE, 
BAL, FADE, BASS and TREB controls just as you do 
for the radio. The tape symbol and a direction arrow will 
be on the display whenever a tape is being played. 
Anytime a tape is inserted, the top side is selected for 
play first. 

The player automatically senses if the cassette tape is 
metal or Crtlb and adjusts for best playback sound. 

PREV (1): Press the PREV button or the SEEK left 
arrow to search for the previous selection. A minimum 
three-second blank gap is required for the player to stop 
at the beginning of the selection. The tape direction 
arrow will blink during the SEEK operation. 

PROG (2): Press this button to switch from one side of 
the tape to the other. 


NEXT (3): Press the NEXT button or the SEEK right 
arrow to search for the next selection. A minimum 
three-second blank gap is required for the player to stop 
at the beginning of the selection. The tape direction 
arrow will blink during the SEEK operation. The sound 
will mute while searching for the next selection. 

REV (4): Press this button to rapidly reverse the tape to 
the beginning of the cassette or until you press REV 
again. The radio will play the last selected station while 
reversing the tape. The tape direction arrow will blink 
during the reverse operation. 

□□ (5): Press this button to reduce cassette tape noise. 
The double-D symbol will appear on the display while 
the player is in this mode. 

Dolby Noise Reduction is manufactured under a 
license from Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation. 
Dolby and the double-D symbol are trademarks of 
Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation. 

FWD (6): Press this button to rapidly forward the tape 
to the end of the cassette or until you press FWD again. 
The radio will play the last selected station while 
forwarding the tape. The tape direction arrow will blink 
during the forward operation. 


AM-FM: Press this button to switch from a tape 
to the radio. 

TAPE AUX: Press this button to return to the tape 
player when playing the radio. The lighted arrow will 
appear and show the direction of play when a tape is in 
the active mode. 

EJECT: Press this button to remove the tape. The radio 
will now play. EJECT can be used with either the ignition 
or radio off. To load a cassette tape with the ignition or 
radio off, press EJECT before loading the cassette. 

CLN: If this message appears on the display, the 
cassette tape player needs to be cleaned. It will still play 
tapes, but you should clean it as soon as possible to 
prevent damage to the tapes and player. See “Care of 
Your Cassette Tape Player” in the Index. After you clean 
the player, press and hold EJECT for five seconds to 
reset the CLN indicator. The radio will display --- to 
show the indicator was reset. 


3-15 


CD Adapter Kits 

It is possible to use a portable CD player adapter kit 

with your cassette tape player after activating the bypass 

feature on your tape player. 

To activate the bypass feature, use the following steps: 

1. Turn the ignition to RUN or ACCESSORY. 

2. Turn the radio off. 

3. Press and hold the TAPE AUX button for five 
seconds. The tape symbol on the display will flash 
for two seconds, indicating the feature is active. 

4. Insert the adapter into the cassette slot. It will power 
up the radio and begin playing. 

This override routine will remain active until EJECT 

is pressed. 


3-16 


AM-FM Stereo with Compact Disc Player 
and Automatic Tone Control (If Equipped) 



Playing the Radio 

PWR-VOL: Press this knob to turn the system on and 
off. To increase volume, turn this knob clockwise. Turn 
it counterclockwise to decrease volume. The knob is 
capable of rotating continuously. 

RECALL: Display the time with the ignition off by 
pressing this button. When the radio is playing, press 
this button to recall the station frequency. 




SCV: Your system has a feature called 
Speed-Compensated Volume (SCV). With SCV, your 
audio system adjusts automatically to make up for road 
and wind noise as you drive. Set the volume at the 
desired level. Turn the control ring behind the upper 
knob clockwise to adjust the SCV. Then, as you drive, 
SCV automatically increases the volume, as necessary, 
to overcome noise at any particular speed. The volume 
level should always sound the same to you as you drive. 
If you don't want to use SCV, turn the control all the 
way down. Each notch on the control ring allows for 
more volume compensation at faster vehicle speeds. 

Finding a Station 

AM-FM: Press this button to switch between AM, FM1 
and FM2. The display will show your selection. 

TUNE: Press this knob lightly so it extends. Turn it to 
choose radio stations. Push the knob back into its stored 
position when you’re not using it. 

SEEK: Press the right arrow to tune to the next higher 
station and the left arrow to tune to the next lower station 
and stay there. The sound will mute while seeking. 


SCAN: Press and hold SEEK for two seconds until 
SCAN appears on the display. SCAN allows you to 
listen to stations for a few seconds. The receiver will 
continue to scan and momentarily stop at each station 
until you press the button again. The sound will mute 
while scanning. 

PUSHBUTTONS: The six numbered pushbuttons let 
you return to your favorite stations. You can set up to 
18 stations (six AM, six FM1 and six FM2). Just: 

1 . Turn the radio on. 

2. Press AM-FM to select the band. 

3. Tune in the desired station. 

4. Press AUTO TONE to select the setting you prefer. 

5. Press and hold one of the six pushbuttons. The sound 
will mute. When it returns, release the button. 
Whenever you press that numbered button, the 
station you set will return and the tone you selected 
will be automatically selected for that button. 

6. Repeat the steps for each pushbutton. 


3-17 


P.SCAN: The preset scan button lets you scan through 
your favorite stations stored on your pushbuttons. 

Select either the AM, FM1 or FM2 mode and then press 
P.SCAN. It will scan through each station stored on your 
pushbuttons and stop for a few seconds before continuing 
to scan through all of the pushbuttons. Press P.SCAN 
again or one of the pushbuttons to stop scanning to listen 
to a specific stored station. P.SCAN will light up on the 
display while in this mode. If one of the stations stored on 
a pushbutton is too weak for the location you are in, the 
radio display will show the channel number (P1-P6) for 
several seconds before advancing to the next preset station. 

Setting the Tone 

BASS: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the knob clockwise to increase bass 
and counterclockwise to decrease bass. When the BASS 
control is rotated, the AUTO TONE display will go blank. 

TREB: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the knob clockwise to increase 
treble and counterclockwise to decrease treble. When 
the TREB control is rotated, the AUTO TONE display 
will go blank. If a station is weak or noisy, you may 
want to decrease the treble. 

Push these knobs back into their stored positions when 
you’re not using them. 


3-18 


AUTO TONE: Press this button to select among the 
six preset equalization settings and tailor the sound to the 
music or voice being heard. Each time you press the 
button, the selection will switch to one of the preset 
settings of CLASSIC, NEWS, ROCK, POP, CAV 
(Country/Western) or JAZZ. To return to the manual 
mode, press and release this button until the AUTO TONE 
display goes blank. This will return the tone adjustment to 
the BASS and TREB controls. If a BASS or TREB 
control is rotated, the AUTO TONE display will go blank. 
Use PUSHBUTTONS to program AUTO TONE. 

Adjusting the Speakers 

BAL: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the control clockwise to adjust 
sound to the right speakers and counterclockwise to 
adjust sound to the left speakers. The middle position 
balances the sound between the speakers. 

FADE: Press lightly on this knob to release it from its 
stored position. Turn the control clockwise to adjust the 
sound to the front speakers and counterclockwise for the 
rear speakers. The middle position balances the sound 
between the speakers. 

Push these knobs back into their stored positions when 
you’re not using them. 


Playing a Compact Disc 

PWR: Press this knob to turn the system on. 

(You can also turn the system on when you insert a 
compact disc into the player with the ignition on.) 

Insert a disc partway into the slot, label side up. The 
player will pull it in. Wait a few seconds and the disc 
should play. CD and a CD symbol will also appear on 
the display. Anytime you are playing a CD, the letters 
CD will be next to the CD symbol. 

If the disc comes back out and ERR appears on the 
display, it could be that: 

• You are driving on a very rough road. 

(The disc should play when the road gets smoother.) 

• The disc is upside down. 

• It is dirty, scratched or wet. 

• It is very humid. 

(If so, wait about an hour and try again. ) 

• The disc player is very hot. 

Press RECALL to make ERR go off the display. 

PREV (1): Press PREV or the SEEK left arrow to 
search for the previous selection. If you hold this button 
or press it more than once, the disc will advance further. 
Sound is muted in this mode. 


RDM (2): Press this button to play the tracks on the disc 
in random order. While in the RDM mode, RANDOM 
appears on the display. Press RDM again to return to 
normal play. 

NEXT (3): Press NEXT or the SEEK right arrow to 
search for the next selection. If you hold this button or 
press it more than once, the disc will advance further. 
The next ttack number will appear on the display. Sound 
is muted in this mode. 

REV (4): Press and hold REV to return rapidly to a 
favorite passage. You will hear the disc selection play at 
high speed while you press the REV button. This allows 
you to listen and find out when the disc is at the desired 
selection. Release REV to resume playing. 

FWD (6): Press and hold this button to advance rapidly 
within a track. You will hear the disc selection play at 
high speed while you press the FWD button. This allows 
you to listen and find out when the disc is at the desired 
selection. Release FWD to resume playing. 

RECALL: Press this button to see what track is playing. 
Press it again within five seconds to see how long the 
CD has been playing that track. Elapsed time is 
displayed in minutes and seconds. The track number 
will also appear when a new track begins to play. Press 
RECALL again to return to the time display. 


3-19 


AM-FM: While in the CD mode, press this button to 
stop playing the CD and play the radio. The CD symbol 
will still display but the word CD will be replaced with 
either AM, FM1 or FM2. (If the radio is turned off, the 
disc stays in the player and will resume playing at the 
point where it stopped.) 

CD AUX: To switch between the player and the radio 
when a disc is playing, press the AM-FM button. To 
return to the player, press CD AUX. When a disc is 
playing, the letters CD and the CD symbol will appear 
on the display. (If the radio is turned off, the disc stays 
in the player and will resume playing at the point where 
it stopped.) 

EJECT: Press this button to eject the disc from the 
player and play the radio. When the same or a new disc 
is inserted, the disc will start playing on track one. If a 
compact disc is left sitting in the opening for more than 
a few seconds, the player will pull the CD back in. The 
radio will continue playing. When the ignition is off, 
press this button to load a CD. 


3-20 


Remote Cassette Tape Player (If Equipped) 



If you have an AM-FM Stereo Audio Compact Disc 
Automatic Tone Control System that includes a remote 
cassette player, the cassette player is located in the 
center of the instrument panel. 

Your tape player is built to work best with tapes that are 
up to 30 to 45 minutes long on each side. Tapes longer 
than that are so thin they may not work well in this player. 

To load a cassette tape with the ignition off, first press 
EJECT on the remote player. Then, insert the cassette tape. 
The tape will play if the ignition is on but the radio is off. 

Once the tape is playing, use the control knobs for VOL, 
AUTO TONE, BAL, FADE, BASS and TREB just as 
you do for the radio. A lighted tape symbol shows when 
a cassette tape is in the player. A lighted arrow will 
also appear and show the direction of play when a 
tape is active. 



The player automatically senses if the cassette tape is 
metal or Cr 02 and adjusts for best playback sound. 

Anytime a cassette tape is inserted, the top side is 
selected for play first. 

PREV (1): Press PREV or the SEEK left arrow (in the 
opposite direction that the lighted tape direction arrow 
points) to search for the previous selection. A minimum 
three-second blank gap is needed for the player to stop 
at the beginning of the selection. The tape direction 
arrow will blink during the SEEK operation and the 
sound is muted in this mode. 

NEXT (3): Press NEXT or the SEEK right arrow (in the 
direction that the lighted tape direction arrow points) to 
search for the next selection. The tape direction arrow 
will blink during SEEK operation and the sound is 
muted in this mode. 

REV (4): Press this button to rapidly reverse the tape. 
The tape will rapidly reverse to the beginning of the 
cassette reel or until you press REV again. The radio 
plays the last selected station during REV. 


(5): Press this pushbutton to turn Dolby on and off. Dolby 
is active when a tape is inserted in the remote cassette. The 
double-D symbol will appear on the display. 

Dolby Noise Reduction is manufactured under a license 
from Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation. Dolby 
and the double-D symbol are trademarks of Dolby 
Laboratories Licensing Corporation. 

FWD (6): Press this button to rapidly advance the tape. 
The tape will rapidly advance to the end of the cassette 
reel or until you press FWD again. The radio plays the 
last selected station during FWD. 

PROG: Press this button on the remote player to go 
from one side of the tape to the other. 

TAPE: Press the AM-FM button to switch from the 
player and the radio when a tape is playing. To return to 
the tape player, press CD AUX. The lighted arrow will 
appear next to the symbol and show the direction of play 
when a tape is active. 

EJECT: Press this button on the remote player to 
remove the tape. EJECT can be used with either the 
ignition or radio off. Also, you must press EJECT before 
loading a cassette with the radio off to allow loading. 


3-21 


Theft-Deterrent Feature (If Equipped) 

THEFTLOCK® is designed to discourage theft of your 
radio. It works by using a secret code to disable all radio 
functions whenever battery power is removed. 

The THEFTLOCK feature for the radio may be used or 
ignored. If ignored, the system plays normally and the 
radio is not protected by the feature. If THEFTLOCK is 
activated, your radio will not operate if stolen. 

When THEFTLOCK is activated, the radio will display 
LOC to indicate a locked condition anytime battery 
power has been interrupted. If your battery loses power 
for any reason, you must unlock the radio with the secret 
code before it will operate. 

Activating the Theft-Deterrent Feature 

The instructions which follow explain how to enter your 
secret code to activate the THEFTLOCK system. It is 
recommended that you read through all nine steps 
before starting the procedure. 

If you allow more than 15 seconds to elapse between 
any steps, the radio automatically reverts to time and 
you must start the procedure over at Step 4. 


3-22 


1 . Write down any three or four-digit number 

from 000 to 1999 and keep it in a safe place separate 
from the vehicle. 

2. Turn the ignition to ACCESSORY or RUN. 

3. Turn the radio off. 

4. Press the 1 and 4 buttons together. Hold them down 
until — shows on the display. Next you will use the 
secret code number which you have written down. 

5. Press MN and 000 will appear on the display. 

6. Press MN again to make the last two digits agree 
with your code. 

7. Press HR to make the first one or two digits agree 
with your code. 

8. Press AM-FM after you have confirmed that the 
code matches the secret code you have written down. 
The display will show REP to let you know that you 
need to repeat Steps 5 through 7 to confirm your 
secret code. 

9. Press AM-FM and this time the display will show 
SEC to let you know that your radio is secure. The 
LED indicator by the volume control will begin 
flashing when the ignition is turned off. 


Unlocking the Theft-Deterrent Feature After a 
Power Loss 

Enter your secret code as follows; pause no more than 
15 seconds between steps: 

1. Turn the ignition on. LOC will appear on the display. 

2. Press MN and 000 will appear on the display. 

3. Press MN again to make the last two digits agree 
with your code. 

4. Press HR to make the first one or two digits agree 
with your code. 

5. Press AM-FM after you have confirmed that the 
code matches the secret code you have written down. 
The display will show SEC, indicating the radio is 
now operable and secure. 

If you enter the wrong code eight times, INOP will 
appear on the display. You will have to wait an hour 
with the ignition on before you can try again. When you 
try again, you will only have three chances to enter the 
correct code before INOP appears. 

If you lose or forget your code, contact your dealer. 


Disabling the Theft-Deterrent Feature 

Enter your secret code as follows; pause no more than 
15 seconds between steps: 

1. Turn the ignition to ACCESSORY or RUN. 

2. Turn the radio off. 

3. Press the 1 and 4 buttons together. Hold them down 
until SEC shows on the display. 

4. Press MN and 000 will appear on the display. 

5. Press MN again to make the last two digits agree 
with your code. 

6. Press HR to make the first one or two digits agree 
with your code. 

7. Press AM-FM after you have confirmed that the 
code matches the secret code you have written down. 
The display will show ---, indicating that the radio is 
no longer secured. 

If the code entered is incorrect, SEC will appear on the 
display. The radio will remain secured until the correct 
code is entered. 

When battery power is removed and later applied to a 
secured radio, the radio won’t turn on and LOC will 
appear on the display. 


3-23 


To unlock a secured radio, see “Unlocking the 
Theft-Deterrent Feature After a Power Loss” earlier in 
this section. 

Understanding Radio Reception 

AM 

The range for most AM stations is greater than for 
FM, especially at night. The longer range, however, can 
cause stations to interfere with each other. AM can pick 
up noise from things like storms and power lines. Try 
reducing the treble to reduce this noise if you ever get it. 

FM Stereo 

FM stereo will give you the best sound, but FM signals 
will reach only about 10 to 40 miles (16 to 65 km). Tall 
buildings or hills can interfere with FM signals, causing 
the sound to come and go. 

Tips About Your Audio System 

Hearing damage from loud noise is almost undetectable 
until it is too late. Your hearing can adapt to higher 
volumes of sound. Sound that seems normal can be loud 
and harmful to your hearing. Take precautions by 
adjusting the volume control on your radio to a safe 
sound level before your hearing adapts to it. 


3-24 


To help avoid hearing loss or damage: 

• Adjust the volume control to the lowest setting. 

• Increase volume slowly until you hear comfortably 
and clearly. 


NOTICE: 


Before you add any sound equipment to your 
vehicle — like a tape player, CB radio, mobile 
telephone or two-way radio — be sure you can 
add what you want. If you can, it’s very 
important to do it properly. Added sound 
equipment may interfere with the operation of 
your vehicle’s engine, Delphi Delco Electronics 
radio or other systems, and even damage them. 
Your vehicle’s systems may interfere with the 
operation of sound equipment that has been 
added improperly. 

So, before adding sound equipment, check with 
your dealer and be sure to check Federal rules 
covering mobile radio and telephone units. 


Care of Your Cassette Tape Player 

A tape player that is not cleaned regularly can cause 
reduced sound quality, ruined cassettes or a damaged 
mechanism. Cassette tapes should be stored in their 
cases away from contaminants, direct sunlight and 
extreme heat. If they aren’t, they may not operate 
properly or may cause failure of the tape player. 

Your tape player should be cleaned regularly after every 
50 hours of use. Your radio may display CLN to indicate 
that you have used your tape player for 50 hours without 
resetting the tape clean timer. If this message appears on 
the display, your cassette tape player needs to be 
cleaned. It will still play tapes, but you should clean it as 
soon as possible to prevent damage to your tapes and 
player. If you notice a reduction in sound quality, try a 
known good cassette to see if it is the tape or the tape 
player at fault. If this other cassette has no improvement 
in sound quality, clean the tape player. 

The recommended cleaning method for your 
cassette tape player is the use of a scrubbing action, 
non-abrasive cleaning cassette with pads which scrub 
the tape head as the hubs of the cleaner cassette turn. 

The recommended cleaning cassette is available through 
your dealership (GM Part No. 12344789). 


When using a scrubbing action, non-abrasive cleaning 
cassette, it is normal for the cassette to eject because 
your unit is equipped with a cut tape detection feature 
and a cleaning cassette may appear as a broken tape. 

To prevent the cleaning cassette from being ejected, use 
the following steps. 

If your vehicle is equipped with the AM-FM Stereo with 
Cassette Tape Player: 

1. Turn the ignition to RUN or ACCESSORY. 

2. Turn the radio on. 

3. Insert the scrubbing action cleaning cassette. 

4. Within five seconds, press and hold the REV and 
FWD buttons at the same time for three seconds. 

The tape symbol on the display will flash, showing 
that the cut tape detection feature is no longer active. 

5. Eject the cleaning cassette after the manufacturer’s 
recommended cleaning time. 


3-25 


If your vehicle is equipped with the AM-FM Stereo with 
Cassette Tape Player and Automatic Tone Control: 

1. Turn the ignition to RUN or ACCESSORY. 

2. Turn the radio off. 

3. Press and hold the TAPE AUX button for five 
seconds. The tape symbol on the display will flash 
for two seconds. 

4. Insert the scrubbing action cleaning cassette. 

5. Eject the cleaning cassette after the manufacturer’s 
recommended cleaning time. 

When the cleaning cassette has been ejected, the cut tape 
detection feature is active again. 

You may also choose a non-scrubbing action, wet-type 
cleaner which uses a cassette with a fabric belt to clean 
the tape head. This type of cleaning cassette will not 
eject on its own. A non-scrubbing action cleaner may 
not clean as thoroughly as the scrubbing type cleaner. 
The use of a non-scrubbing action, dry-type cleaning 
cassette is not recommended. 

After you clean the player, press and hold EJECT for 
five seconds to reset the CLN indicator. The radio will 
display — to show the indicator was reset. 


3-26 


Cassettes are subject to wear and the sound quality may 
degrade over time. Always make sure the cassette tape is in 
good condition before you have your tape player serviced. 

Care of Your Compact Discs 

Handle discs carefully. Store them in their original cases 
or other protective cases and away from direct sunlight 
and dust. If the surface of a disc is soiled, dampen a 
clean, soft cloth in a mild, neutral detergent solution and 
clean it, wiping from the center to the edge. 

Be sure never to touch the signal surface when handling 
discs. Pick up discs by grasping the outer edges or the 
edge of the hole and the outer edge. 

Care of Your Compact Disc Player 

The use of CD lens cleaner discs is not advised, due to 
the risk of contaminating the lens of the CD optics with 
lubricants internal to the CD mechanism. 

Fixed Mast Antenna 

The fixed mast antenna can withstand most car washes 
without being damaged. If the mast should ever become 
slightly bent, you can straighten it out by hand. If the mast is 
badly bent, as it might be by vandals, you should replace it. 

Check every once in a while to be sure the mast is still 
tightened to the fender. 


Section 4 Your Driving and the Road 


Here you’ll find information about driving on different kinds of roads and in varying weather conditions. We’ve also 
included many other useful tips on driving. 


4-2 

Defensive Driving 

4-3 

Drunken Driving 

4-6 

Control of a Vehicle 

4-6 

Braking 

4-9 

Steering 

4-11 

Off-Road Recovery 

4-11 

Passing 

4-13 

Loss of Control 

4-14 

Off-Road Driving with Your 
Four- Wheel-Drive Vehicle 

4-26 

Driving at Night 


4-28 Driving in Rain and on Wet Roads 

4-31 City Driving 

4-32 Freeway Driving 

4-33 Before Leaving on a Long Trip 

4-34 Highway Hypnosis 

4-34 Hill and Mountain Roads 

4-36 Winter Driving 

4-39 Recreational Vehicle Towing 

4-40 Loading Your Vehicle 

4-45 Pickup Conversion to Chassis Cab 

4-46 Towing a Trailer 


4-1 



Defensive Driving 

The best advice anyone can give about driving is: 

Drive defensively. 

Please start with a very important safety device in your 
vehicle: Buckle up. (See “Safety Belts” in the Index.) 


4-2 


Defensive driving really means “be ready for anything.” 
On city streets, rural roads or freeways, it means 
“always expect the unexpected.” 

Assume that pedestrians or other drivers are going to be 
careless and make mistakes. Anticipate what they might 
do. Be ready for their mistakes. 

Rear-end collisions are about the most preventable 
of accidents. Yet they are common. Allow enough 
following distance. It’s the best defensive driving 
maneuver, in both city and rural driving. You never 
know when the vehicle in front of you is going to brake 
or turn suddenly. 

Defensive driving requires that a driver concentrate on 
the driving task. Anything that distracts from the driving 
task — such as concentrating on a cellular telephone 
call, reading, or reaching for something on the 
floor -- makes proper defensive driving more difficult 
and can even cause a collision, with resulting injury. 

Ask a passenger to help do things like this, or pull 
off the road in a safe place to do them yourself. 

These simple defensive driving techniques could 
save your life. 



Drunken Driving 

Death and injury associated with drinking and driving is 
a national tragedy. It’s the number one contributor to 
the highway death toll, claiming thousands of victims 
every year. 

Alcohol affects four things that anyone needs to 
drive a vehicle: 

• Judgment 

• Muscular Coordination 

• Vision 

• Attentiveness. 

Police records show that almost half of all motor 
vehicle-related deaths involve alcohol. In most cases, 
these deaths are the result of someone who was drinking 
and driving. In recent years, over 17,000 annual motor 
vehicle-related deaths have been associated with the use 
of alcohol, with more than 300,000 people injured. 

Many adults -- by some estimates, nearly half the adult 
population -- choose never to drink alcohol, so they 
never drive after drinking. For persons under 21, it’s 
against the law in every U.S. state to drink alcohol. 
There are good medical, psychological and 
developmental reasons for these laws. 


The obvious way to solve the leading highway safety 
problem is for people never to drink alcohol and then 
drive. But what if people do? How much is “too much’’ 
if the driver plans to drive? It’s a lot less than many 
might think. Although it depends on each person and 
situation, here is some general information on 
the problem. 

The Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) of someone 
who is drinking depends upon four things: 

• The amount of alcohol consumed 

• The drinker’s body weight 

• The amount of food that is consumed before and 
during drinking 

• The length of time it has taken the drinker to 
consume the alcohol. 

According to the American Medical Association, a 
180-lb. (82 kg) person who drinks three 12-ounce 
(355 ml) bottles of beer in an hour will end up with a 
BAC of about 0.06 percent. The person would reach the 
same BAC by drinking three 4-ounce (120 ml) glasses 
of wine or three mixed drinks if each had 1-1/2 ounces 
(45 ml) of a liquor like whiskey, gin or vodka. 


4-3 



It’s the amount of alcohol that counts. For example, if 
the same person drank three double martinis (3 ounces 
or 90 ml of liquor each) within an hour, the person’s 
BAC would be close to 0. 12 percent. A person who 
consumes food just before or during drinking will have a 
somewhat lower BAC level. 

There is a gender difference, too. Women generally have 
a lower relative percentage of body water than men. 


4-4 


Since alcohol is carried in body water, this means that a 
woman generally will reach a higher BAC level than a 
man of her same body weight when each has the same 
number of drinks. 

The law in many U.S. states sets the legal limit at a BAC 
of 0. 10 percent. In a growing number of U.S. states, and 
throughout Canada, the limit is 0.08 percent. In some 
other countries, it’s even lower. The BAC limit for all 
commercial drivers in the United States is 0.04 percent. 

The BAC will be over 0. 10 percent after three to 
six drinks (in one hour). Of course, as we’ve seen, it 
depends on how much alcohol is in the drinks, and how 
quickly the person drinks them. 

But the ability to drive is affected well below a BAC 
of 0.10 percent. Research shows that the driving skills 
of many people are impaired at a BAC approaching 
0.05 percent, and that the effects are worse at night. 

All drivers are impaired at BAC levels above 
0.05 percent. Statistics show that the chance of being 
in a collision increases sharply for drivers who have a 
BAC of 0.05 percent or above. A driver with a BAC 
level of 0.06 percent has doubled his or her chance of 
having a collision. At a BAC level of 0. 10 percent, the 
chance of this driver having a collision is 12 times 
greater; at a level of 0.15 percent, the chance is 
25 times greater! 


The body takes about an hour to rid itself of the alcohol 
in one drink. No amount of coffee or number of cold 
showers will speed that up. “I’ll be careful" isn’t the 
right answer. What if there’s an emergency, a need to 
take sudden action, as when a child darts into the street? 
A person with even a moderate BAC might not be able 
to react quickly enough to avoid the collision. 

There’s something else about drinking and driving that 
many people don’t know. Medical research shows that 
alcohol in a person’s system can make crash injuries 
worse, especially injuries to the brain, spinal cord or 
heart. This means that when anyone who has been 
drinking -- driver or passenger -- is in a crash, that 
person’s chance of being killed or permanently disabled 
is higher than if the person had not been drinking. 


A CAUTION: 


Drinking and then driving is very dangerous. 
Your reflexes, perceptions, attentiveness and 
judgment can be affected by even a small 
amount of alcohol. You can have a serious — or 
even fatal — collision if you drive after drinking. 
Please don’t drink and drive or ride with a driver 
who has been drinking. Ride home in a cab; or if 
you’re with a group, designate a driver who will 
not drink. 


4-5 


Control of a Vehicle 

You have three systems that make your vehicle go where 
you want it to go. They are the brakes, the steering and 
the accelerator. All three systems have to do their work 
at the places where the tires meet the road. 



Sometimes, as when you’re driving on snow or ice, it’s 
easy to ask more of those control systems than the tires 
and road can provide. That means you can lose control 
of your vehicle. 

4-6 


Braking 

Braking action involves perception time and 
reaction time. 

First, you have to decide to push on the brake pedal. 
That’s perception time. Then you have to bring up your 
foot and do it. That’s reaction time. 

Average reaction time is about 3/4 of a second. But 
that’s only an average. It might be less with one driver 
and as long as two or three seconds or more with 
another. Age, physical condition, alertness, coordination 
and eyesight all play a part. So do alcohol, drugs and 
frustration. But even in 3/4 of a second, a vehicle 
moving at 60 mph (100 km/h) travels 66 feet (20 m). 
That could be a lot of distance in an emergency, so 
keeping enough space between your vehicle and others 
is important. 

And, of course, actual stopping distances vary greatly 
with the surface of the road (whether it’s pavement or 
gravel); the condition of the road (wet, dry, icy); tire 
tread; the condition of your brakes; the weight of the 
vehicle and the amount of brake force applied. 


Avoid needless heavy braking. Some people drive in 
spurts -- heavy acceleration followed by heavy 
braking -- rather than keeping pace with traffic. This is a 
mistake. Your brakes may not have time to cool between 
hard stops. Your brakes will wear out much faster if you 
do a lot of heavy braking. If you keep pace with the 
traffic and allow realistic following distances, you will 
eliminate a lot of unnecessary braking. That means 
better braking and longer brake life. 

If your engine ever stops while you’re driving, brake 
normally but don’t pump your brakes. If you do, the 
pedal may get harder to push down. If your engine 
stops, you will still have some power brake assist. But 
you will use it when you brake. Once the power assist is 
used up, it may take longer to stop and the brake pedal 
will be harder to push. 


Anti-Lock Brakes (ABS) 

Your vehicle has anti-lock brakes (ABS). ABS is an 
advanced electronic braking system that will help 
prevent a braking skid. 

When you start your engine and begin to drive away, 
your anti-lock brake system will check itself. You may 
hear a momentary motor or clicking noise while this test 
is going on. This is normal. 



If there’s a problem with the 
anti-lock brake system, this 
warning light will stay on. 
See “Anti-Lock Brake 
System Warning Light” in 
the Index. 


4-7 



Here’s how anti-lock works. Let’s say the road is wet. 
You’re driving safely. Suddenly an animal jumps out in 
front of you. 

You slam on the brakes. Here’s what happens with ABS. 

A computer senses that wheels are slowing down. If one 
of the wheels is about to stop rolling, the computer will 
separately work the brakes at each front wheel and at 
both rear wheels. 


4-8 


The anti-lock system can change the brake pressure faster 
than any driver could. The computer is programmed to 
make the most of available tire and road conditions. 



You can steer around the obstacle while braking hard. 

As you brake, your computer keeps receiving updates on 
wheel speed and controls braking pressure accordingly. 



Remember: Anti-lock doesn’t change the time you need 
to get your foot up to the brake pedal or always decrease 
stopping distance. If you get too close to the vehicle in 
front of you, you won’t have time to apply your brakes 
if that vehicle suddenly slows or stops. Always leave 
enough room up ahead to stop, even though you have 
anti -lock brakes. 

Using Anti-Lock 

Don’t pump the brakes. Just hold the brake pedal down 
firmly and let anti-lock work for you. You may feel the 
brakes vibrate, or you may notice some noise, but this is 
normal. On vehicles with four-wheel drive, your 
anti-lock brakes work at all times -- whether you 
are in two-wheel drive or four-wheel drive. 

Braking in Emergencies 

With anti-lock, you can steer and brake at the same 
time. In many emergencies, steering can help you more 
than even the very best braking. 

Steering 

Power Steering 

If you lose power steering assist because the engine 
stops or the system is not functioning, you can steer but 
it will take much more effort. 


Steering Tips 

Driving on Curves 

It’s important to take curves at a reasonable speed. 

A lot of the “driver lost control” accidents mentioned on 
the news happen on curves. Here’s why: 

Experienced driver or beginner, each of us is subject to 
the same laws of physics when driving on curves. The 
traction of the tires against the road surface makes it 
possible for the vehicle to change its path when you turn 
the front wheels. If there’s no traction, inertia will keep 
the vehicle going in the same direction. If you’ve ever 
tried to steer a vehicle on wet ice, you’ll understand this. 

The traction you can get in a curve depends on the 
condition of your tires and the road surface, the angle at 
which the curve is banked, and your speed. While you’re 
in a curve, speed is the one factor you can control. 

Suppose you’re steering through a sharp curve. Then you 
suddenly accelerate. Both control systems — steering and 
acceleration — have to do their work where the tires meet 
the road. Adding the sudden acceleration can demand too 
much of those places. You can lose control. 

What should you do if this ever happens? Ease up on the 
accelerator pedal, steer the vehicle the way you want it 
to go, and slow down. 


4-9 


Speed limit signs near curves warn that you should 
adjust your speed. Of course, the posted speeds are 
based on good weather and road conditions. Under less 
favorable conditions you’ll want to go slower. 

If you need to reduce your speed as you approach a 
curve, do it before you enter the curve, while your front 
wheels are straight ahead. 

Try to adjust your speed so you can “drive” through the 
curve. Maintain a reasonable, steady speed. Wait to 
accelerate until you are out of the curve, and then 
accelerate gently into the straightaway. 

Steering in Emergencies 

There are times when steering can be more effective than 
braking. For example, you come over a hill and find a 
truck stopped in your lane, or a car suddenly pulls out 
from nowhere, or a child darts out from between parked 
cars and stops right in front of you. You can avoid these 
problems by braking — if you can stop in time. But 
sometimes you can’t; there isn’t room. That’s the time for 
evasive action — steering around the problem. 

Your vehicle can perform very well in emergencies like 
these. First apply your brakes. (See “Braking in 
Emergencies” earlier in this section.) It is better to 
remove as much speed as you can from a possible 
collision. Then steer around the problem, to the left or 
right depending on the space available. 

4-10 



An emergency like this requires close attention and a 
quick decision. If you are holding the steering wheel at 
the recommended 9 and 3 o’clock positions, you can 
turn it a full 180 degrees very quickly without removing 
either hand. But you have to act fast, steer quickly, and 
just as quickly straighten the wheel once you have 
avoided the object. 

The fact that such emergency situations are always 
possible is a good reason to practice defensive driving at 
all times and wear safety belts properly. 


Off-Road Recovery 

You may find that your right wheels have dropped off the 
edge of a road onto the shoulder while you’re driving. 



If the level of the shoulder is only slightly below the 
pavement, recovery should be fairly easy. Ease off the 
accelerator and then, if there is nothing in the way, steer so 
that your vehicle straddles the edge of the pavement. You 
can turn the steering wheel up to one-quarter turn until the 
right front tire contacts the pavement edge. Then turn your 
steering wheel to go straight down the roadway. 


Passing 

The driver of a vehicle about to pass another on a 
two-lane highway waits for just the right moment, 
accelerates, moves around the vehicle ahead, then goes 
back into the right lane again. A simple maneuver? 

Not necessarily! Passing another vehicle on a two-lane 
highway is a potentially dangerous move, since the 
passing vehicle occupies the same lane as oncoming 
traffic for several seconds. A miscalculation, an error in 
judgment, or a brief surrender to frustration or anger can 
suddenly put the passing driver face to face with the 
worst of all traffic accidents -- the head-on collision. 

So here are some tips for passing: 

• “Drive ahead.” Look down the road, to the sides and to 
crossroads for situations that might affect your passing 
patterns. If you have any doubt whatsoever about 
making a successful pass, wait for a better time. 

• Watch for traffic signs, pavement markings and lines. 

If you can see a sign up ahead that might indicate a 
turn or an intersection, delay your pass. A broken 
center line usually indicates it’s all right to pass 
(providing the road ahead is clear). Never cross a solid 
line on your side of the lane or a double solid line, 
even if the road seems empty of approaching traffic. 


4-11 


• Do not get too close to the vehicle you want to pass while 
you’re awaiting an opportunity. For one thing, following 
too closely reduces your area of vision, especially if 
you’re following a larger vehicle. Also, you won’t have 
adequate space if the vehicle ahead suddenly slows or 
stops. Keep back a reasonable distance. 

• When it looks like a chance to pass is coming up, start to 
accelerate but stay in the right lane and don’t get too 
close. Time your move so you will be increasing speed as 
the time comes to move into the other lane. If the way is 
clear to pass, you will have a “running start” that more 
than makes up for the distance you would lose by 
dropping back. And if something happens to cause you to 
cancel your pass, you need only slow down and drop 
back again and wait for another opportunity. 

• If other cars are lined up to pass a slow vehicle, wait 
your turn. But take care that someone isn’t trying to 
pass you as you pull out to pass the slow vehicle. 
Remember to glance over your shoulder and check 
the blind spot. 


4-12 


• Check your mirrors, glance over your shoulder and 
start your left lane change signal before moving out 
of the right lane to pass. When you are far enough 
ahead of the passed vehicle to see its front in your 
inside mirror, activate your right lane change signal 
and move back into the right lane. (Remember that 
your right outside mirror is convex. The vehicle you 
just passed may seem to be farther away from you 
than it really is.) 

• Try not to pass more than one vehicle at a time 
on two-lane roads. Reconsider before passing the 
next vehicle. 

• Don’t overtake a slowly moving vehicle too rapidly. 
Even though the brake lamps are not flashing, it may 
be slowing down or starting to turn. 

• If you’re being passed, make it easy for the 
following driver to get ahead of you. Perhaps you 
can ease a little to the right. 


Loss of Control 

Let’s review what driving experts say about what 
happens when the three control systems (brakes, steering 
and acceleration) don’t have enough friction where the 
tires meet the road to do what the driver has asked. 

In any emergency, don’t give up. Keep trying to steer and 
constantly seek an escape route or area of less danger. 

Skidding 

In a skid, a driver can lose control of the vehicle. 

Defensive drivers avoid most skids by taking reasonable 
care suited to existing conditions, and by not “overdriving” 
those conditions. But skids are always possible. 

The three types of skids correspond to your vehicle’s 
three control systems. In the braking skid, your wheels 
aren’t rolling. In the steering or cornering skid, too 
much speed or steering in a curve causes tires to slip and 
lose cornering force. And in the acceleration skid, too 
much throttle causes the driving wheels to spin. 

A cornering skid and an acceleration skid are best 
handled by easing your foot off the accelerator pedal. 


If your vehicle starts to slide, ease your foot off the 
accelerator pedal and quickly steer the way you want the 
vehicle to go. If you start steering quickly enough, your 
vehicle may straighten out. Always be ready for a 
second skid if it occurs. 

Of course, traction is reduced when water, snow, ice, 
gravel or other material is on the road. For safety, you’ll 
want to slow down and adjust your driving to these 
conditions. It is important to slow down on slippery 
surfaces because stopping distance will be longer and 
vehicle control more limited. 

While driving on a surface with reduced traction, try 
your best to avoid sudden steering, acceleration or 
braking (including engine braking by shifting to a lower 
gear). Any sudden changes could cause the tires to slide. 
You may not realize the surface is slippery until your 
vehicle is skidding. Learn to recognize warning 
clues -- such as enough water, ice or packed snow on 
the road to make a “mirrored surface” — and slow down 
when you have any doubt. 

Remember: Any anti-lock brake system (ABS) helps 
avoid only the braking skid. 


4-13 


Off-Road Driving with Your 
Four- Wheel-Drive Vehicle 

This off-road guide is for vehicles that have 
four-wheel drive. 

Also, see “Anti-Lock Brakes” in the Index. 

If your vehicle doesn’t have four-wheel drive, you shouldn’t 
drive off-road unless you’re on a level, solid surface. 

Off-road driving can be great fun. But it does have some 
definite hazards. The greatest of these is the terrain itself. 

“Off-roading” means you’ve left the great North 
American road system behind. Traffic lanes aren’t 
marked. Curves aren’t banked. There are no road signs. 
Surfaces can be slippery, rough, uphill or downhill. 

In short, you’ve gone right back to nature. 

Off-road driving involves some new skills. And that’s 
why it’s very important that you read this guide. You’ll 
find many driving tips and suggestions. These will help 
make your off-road driving safer and more enjoyable. 


4-14 


Before You Go Off-Roading 

There are some things to do before you go out. For 
example, be sure to have all necessary maintenance and 
service work done. Check to make sure all underbody 
shields (if so equipped) are properly attached. 

Be sure you read all the information about your 
four-wheel-drive vehicle in this manual. Is there enough 
fuel? Is the spare tire fully inflated? Are the fluid levels 
up where they should be? What are the local laws that 
apply to off-roading where you’ll be driving? If you 
don’t know, you should check with law enforcement 
people in the area. Will you be on someone’s private 
land? If so, be sure to get the necessary permission. 

Loading Your Vehicle for Off- Road Driving 

There are some important things to remember about 
how to load your vehicle. 

• The heaviest things should be on the load floor and 
forward of your rear axle. Put heavier items as far 
forward as you can. 

• Be sure the load is secured properly, so driving on 
the off-road terrain doesn’t toss things around. 


A CAUTION: 


• Cargo on the load floor piled higher than 
the seatbacks can be thrown forward 
during a sudden stop. You or your 
passengers could be injured. Keep cargo 
below the top of the seatbacks. 

• Unsecured cargo on the load floor can be 
tossed about when driving over rough 
terrain. You or your passengers can be 
struck by flying objects. Secure the 
cargo properly. 

• Heavy loads on the roof raise the vehicle’s 
center of gravity, making it more likely to 
roll over. You can be seriously or fatally 
injured if the vehicle rolls over. Put heavy 
loads inside the cargo area, not on the roof. 
Keep cargo in the cargo area as far forward 
and low as possible. 


You’ll find other important information in this manual. 
See “Vehicle Loading,” “Luggage Carrier” and “Tires” 
in the Index. 


Environmental Concerns 


Off-road driving can provide wholesome and satisfying 
recreation. However, it also raises environmental 
concerns. GM recognizes these concerns and urges 
every off-roader to follow these basic rules for 
protecting the environment: 

• Always use established trails, roads and areas that 
have been specially set aside for public off-road 
recreational driving; obey all posted regulations. 

• Avoid any driving practice that could damage the 
environment -- shrubs, flowers, trees, grasses -- or 
disturb wildlife (this includes wheel-spinning, 
breaking down trees or unnecessary driving through 
streams or over soft ground). 

• Always carry a litter bag . . . make sure all refuse is 
removed from any campsite before leaving. 

• Take extreme care with open fires (where permitted), 
camp stoves and lanterns. 

• Never park your vehicle over dry grass or other 
combustible materials that could catch fire from the 
heat of the vehicle’s exhaust system. 


4-15 


Traveling to Remote Areas 

It makes sense to plan your trip, especially when going 
to a remote area. Know the terrain and plan your route. 
You are much less likely to get bad surprises. Get 
accurate maps of trails and terrain. Try to learn of any 
blocked or closed roads. 

It’s also a good idea to travel with at least one other 
vehicle. If something happens to one of them, the other 
can help quickly. 

Does your vehicle have a winch? If so, be sure to read 
the winch instructions. In a remote area, a winch can be 
handy if you get stuck. But you’ll want to know how to 
use it properly. 

Getting Familiar with Off- Road Driving 

It’s a good idea to practice in an area that’s safe and 
close to home before you go into the wilderness. 
Off-road driving does require some new and different 
driving skills. Here’s what we mean. 

Tune your senses to different kinds of signals. Your 
eyes, for example, need to constantly sweep the terrain 
for unexpected obstacles. Your ears need to listen for 
unusual tire or engine sounds. With your arms, hands, 
feet and body, you’ll need to respond to vibrations and 
vehicle bounce. 


4-16 


Controlling your vehicle is the key to successful 
off-road driving. One of the best ways to control your 
vehicle is to control your speed. Here are some things to 
keep in mind. At higher speeds: 

• you approach things faster and you have less time to 
scan the terrain for obstacles. 

• you have less time to react. 

• you have more vehicle bounce when you drive 
over obstacles. 

• you’ll need more distance for braking, especially 
since you’re on an unpaved surface. 


A CAUTION: 


When you’re driving off-road, bouncing and 
quick changes in direction can easily throw you 
out of position. This could cause you to lose 
control and crash. So, whether you’re driving on 
or off the road, you and your passengers should 
wear safety belts. 


Scanning the Terrain 

Off-road driving can take you over many different kinds 
of terrain. You need to be familiar with the terrain and its 
many different features. Here are some things to consider. 

Surface Conditions. Off-roading can take you over 
hard-packed dirt, gravel, rocks, grass, sand, mud, snow or 
ice. Each of these surfaces affects the steering, acceleration 
and braking of your vehicle in different ways. Depending 
upon the kind of surface you are on, you may experience 
slipping, sliding, wheel spinning, delayed acceleration, 
poor traction and longer braking distances. 

Surface Obstacles. Unseen or hidden obstacles can be 
hazardous. A rock, log, hole, rut or bump can startle you if 
you’re not prepared for them. Often these obstacles are 
hidden by grass, bushes, snow or even the rise and fall of 
the terrain itself. Here are some things to consider: 

• Is the path ahead clear? 

• Will the surface texture change abruptly up ahead? 

• Does the travel take you uphill or downhill? 

(There’s more discussion of these subjects later.) 

• Will you have to stop suddenly or change 
direction quickly? 


When you drive over obstacles or rough terrain, keep a 
firm grip on the steering wheel. Ruts, troughs or other 
surface features can jerk the wheel out of your hands if 
you’re not prepared. 

When you drive over bumps, rocks, or other obstacles, 
your wheels can leave the ground. If this happens, even 
with one or two wheels, you can’t control the vehicle as 
well or at all. 

Because you will be on an unpaved surface, it’s 
especially important to avoid sudden acceleration, 
sudden turns or sudden braking. 

In a way, off-road driving requires a different kind of 
alertness from driving on paved roads and highways. 
There are no road signs, posted speed limits or signal 
lights. You have to use your own good judgment about 
what is safe and what isn’t. 

Drinking and driving can be very dangerous on any 
road. And this is certainly true for off- road driving. 

At the very time you need special alertness and driving 
skills, your reflexes, perceptions and judgment can be 
affected by even a small amount of alcohol. You could 
have a serious -- or even fatal — accident if you drink 
and drive or ride with a driver who has been drinking. 
See “Drunken Driving” in the Index. 


4-17 


Driving on Off- Road Hills 

Off-road driving often takes you up, down or across a 
hill. Driving safely on hills requires good judgment and 
an understanding of what your vehicle can and can’t do. 
There are some hills that simply can’t be driven, no 
matter how well built the vehicle. 


A CAUTION: 


Many hills are simply too steep for any vehicle. 

If you drive up them, you will stall. If you drive 
down them, you can’t control your speed. If you 
drive across them, you will roll over. You could be 
seriously injured or killed. If you have any doubt 
about the steepness, don’t drive the hill. 


Approaching a Hill 

When you approach a hill, you need to decide if it’s one 
of those hills that’s just too steep to climb, descend or 
cross. Steepness can be hard to judge. On a very small 
hill, for example, there may be a smooth, constant 
incline with only a small change in elevation where you 
can easily see all the way to the top. 


4-18 


On a large hill, the incline may get steeper as you near 

the top, but you may not see this because the crest of the 

hill is hidden by bushes, grass or shrubs. 

Here are some other things to consider as you 

approach a hill. 

• Is there a constant incline, or does the hill get sharply 
steeper in places? 

• Is there good traction on the hillside, or will the 
surface cause tire slipping? 

• Is there a straight path up or down the hill so you 
won’t have to make turning maneuvers? 

• Are there obstructions on the hill that can block your 
path (boulders, trees, logs or ruts)? 

• What’s beyond the hill? Is there a cliff, an 
embankment, a drop-off, a fence? Get out and walk the 
hill if you don’t know. It’s the smart way to find out. 

• Is the hill simply too rough? Steep hills often have 
ruts, gullies, troughs and exposed rocks because they 
are more susceptible to the effects of erosion. 


Driving Uphill 

Once you decide you can safely drive up the hill, you 

need to take some special steps. 

• Use a low gear and get a firm grip on the steering wheel. 

• Get a smooth start up the hill and try to maintain your 
speed. Don’t use more power than you need, because 
you don’t want your wheels to start spinning or sliding. 

• Try to drive straight up the hill if at all possible. If the path 
twists and turns, you might want to find another route. 


A CAUTION: 


Turning or driving across steep hills can be 
dangerous. You could lose traction, slide 
sideways, and possibly roll over. You could be 
seriously injured or killed. When driving up hills, 
always try to go straight up. 


• Ease up on your speed as you approach the top 
of the hill. 

• Attach a flag to the vehicle to make you more visible 
to approaching traffic on trails or hills. 

• Sound the horn as you approach the top of the hill to 
let opposing traffic know you’re there. 

• Use your headlamps even during the day. They make 
you more visible to oncoming traffic. 


A CAUTION: 


Driving to the top (crest) of a hill at full speed can 
cause an accident. There could be a drop-off, 
embankment, cliff, or even another vehicle. You 
could be seriously injured or killed. As you near 
the top of a hill, slow down and stay alert. 


4-19 


Q: What should I do if my vehicle stalls, or is about 
to stall, and I can’t make it up the hill? 

A: If this happens, there are some things you should 
do, and there are some things you must not do. 

First, here’s what you should do: 

• Push the brake pedal to stop the vehicle and keep it 
from rolling backwards. Also, apply the parking brake. 

• If your engine is still running, shift the transmission 
to REVERSE (R), release the parking brake, and 
slowly back down the hill in REVERSE (R). 

• If your engine has stopped running, you’ll need to 
restart it. With the brake pedal pressed and the 
parking brake still applied, shift the transmission to 
PARK (P) (or, shift to NEUTRAL (N) if your 
vehicle has a manual transmission) and restart the 
engine. Then, shift to REVERSE (R), release the 
parking brake, and slowly back down the hill as 
straight as possible in REVERSE (R). 

• As you are backing down the hill, put your left hand on 
the steering wheel at the 12 o’clock position. This way, 
you’ll be able to tell if your wheels are straight and 
maneuver as you back down. It’s best that you back down 
the hill with your wheels straight rather than in the left or 
right direction. Turning the wheel too far to the left or 
right will increase the possibility of a rollover. 

4-20 


Here are some things you must not do if you stall, or are 
about to stall, when going up a hill. 

• Never attempt to prevent a stall by shifting into 
NEUTRAL (N) (or depressing the clutch, if you 
have a manual transmission) to “rev-up” the engine 
and regain forward momentum. This won’t work. 
Your vehicle will roll backwards very quickly and 
you could go out of control. 

Instead, apply the regular brake to stop the vehicle. Then 
apply the parking brake. Shift to REVERSE (R), release 
the parking brake, and slowly back straight down. 

• Never attempt to turn around if you are about to stall 
when going up a hill. If the hill is steep enough to 
stall your vehicle, it’s steep enough to cause you to 
roll over if you turn around. If you can’t make it up 
the hill, you must back straight down the hill. 

Q: Suppose, after stalling, I try to back down the hill 
and decide I just can’t do it. What should I do? 

A: Set the parking brake, put your transmission in 

PARK (P) (or the manual transmission in FIRST (1)) 
and turn off the engine. Leave the vehicle and go get 
some help. Exit on the uphill side and stay clear of 
the path the vehicle would take if it rolled downhill. 


Driving Downhill 

When off-roading takes you downhill, you’ll want to 
consider a number of things: 

• How steep is the downhill? Will I be able to maintain 
vehicle control? 

• What’s the surface like? Smooth? Rough? Slippery? 
Hard-packed dirt? Gravel? 

• Are there hidden surface obstacles? Ruts? 

Logs? Boulders? 

• What’s at the bottom of the hill? Is there a hidden 
creek bank or even a river bottom with large rocks? 

If you decide you can go down a hill safely, then try to 
keep your vehicle headed straight down, and use a low 
gear. This way, engine drag can help your brakes and 
they won’t have to do all the work. Descend slowly, 
keeping your vehicle under control at all times. 


A CAUTION: 


Heavy braking when going down a hill can cause 
your brakes to overheat and fade. This could 
cause loss of control and a serious accident. 
Apply the brakes lightly when descending 
a hill and use a low gear to keep vehicle speed 
under control. 


Q‘ Are there some things I should not do when 
driving down a hill? 

A: Yes! These are important because if you ignore them 
you could lose control and have a serious accident. 

• When driving downhill, avoid turns that take you 
across the incline of the hill. A hill that’s not too 
steep to drive down may be too steep to drive across. 
You could roll over if you don’t drive straight down. 

• Never go downhill with the transmission in 
NEUTRAL (N), or with the clutch pedal depressed 
in a manual shift. This is called “free-wheeling.” 
Your brakes will have to do all the work and could 
overheat and fade. 


4-21 


Q‘ Am I likely to stall when going downhill? 

A: It’s much more likely to happen going uphill. 

But if it happens going downhill, here’s what to do. 

• Stop your vehicle by applying the regular brakes. 
Apply the parking brake. 

• Shift to PARK (P) (or to NEUTRAL (N) with the 
manual transmission) and, while still braking, restart 
the engine. 

• Shift back to a low gear, release the parking brake, 
and drive straight down. 

• If the engine won’t start, get out and get help. 


4-22 


Driving Across an Incline 

Sooner or later, an off-road trail will probably go across 
the incline of a hill. If this happens, you have to decide 
whether to try to drive across the incline. Here are some 
things to consider: 

• A hill that can be driven straight up or down may be 
too steep to drive across. When you go straight 
up or down a hill, the length of the wheel base 
(the distance from the front wheels to the rear 
wheels) reduces the likelihood the vehicle will 
tumble end over end. But when you drive across 
an incline, the much more narrow track width 
(the distance between the left and right wheels) may 
not prevent the vehicle from tilting and rolling over. 
Also, driving across an incline puts more weight on 
the downhill wheels. This could cause a downhill 
slide or a rollover. 


• Surface conditions can be a problem when you drive 
across a hill. Loose gravel, muddy spots, or even wet 
grass can cause your tires to slip sideways, downhill. 
If the vehicle slips sideways, it can hit something 
that will trip it (a rock, a rut, etc.) and roll over. 

• Hidden obstacles can make the steepness of the 
incline even worse. If you drive across a rock with 
the uphill wheels, or if the downhill wheels drop into 
a rut or depression, your vehicle can tilt even more. 

For reasons like these, you need to decide carefully 
whether to try to drive across an incline. Just because the 
trail goes across the incline doesn’t mean you have to 
drive it. The last vehicle to try it might have rolled over. 


A CAUTION: 


Driving across an incline that’s too steep will 
make your vehicle roll over. You could be 
seriously injured or killed. If you have any doubt 
about the steepness of the incline, don’t drive 
across it. Find another route instead. 


Q‘ What if I’m driving across an incline that’s not 
too steep, but I hit some loose gravel and start to 
slide downhill. What should I do? 

A: If you feel your vehicle starting to slide sideways, 
turn downhill. This should help straighten out the 
vehicle and prevent the side slipping. However, a 
much better way to prevent this is to get out and 
“walk the course” so you know what the surface is 
like before you drive it. 


4-23 


Stalling on an Incline 

If your vehicle stalls when you’re crossing an incline, be 
sure you (and your passengers) get out on the uphill 
side, even if the door there is harder to open. If you get 
out on the downhill side and the vehicle starts to roll 
over, you’ll be right in its path. 

If you have to walk down the slope, stay out of the path 
the vehicle will take if it does roll over. 



4-24 




A CAUTION: 


Getting out on the downhill (low) side of a vehicle 
stopped across an incline is dangerous. If the 
vehicle rolls over, you could be crushed or killed. 
Always get out on the uphill (high) side of the 
vehicle and stay well clear of the rollover path. 


Driving in Mud, Sand, Snow or Ice 

When you drive in mud, snow or sand, your wheels won’t 
get good traction. You can’t accelerate as quickly, turning 
is more difficult, and you’ll need longer braking distances. 

It’s best to use a low gear when you’re in mud — the 
deeper the mud, the lower the gear. In really deep mud, the 
idea is to keep your vehicle moving so you don’t get stuck. 

When you drive on sand, you’ll sense a change in wheel 
traction. But it will depend upon how loosely packed the 
sand is. On loosely packed sand (as on beaches or sand 
dunes) your tires will tend to sink into the sand. This has 
an effect on steering, accelerating and braking. You may 
want to reduce the air pressure in your tires slightly 
when driving on sand. This will improve traction. 



Hard packed snow and ice offer the worst tire traction. On 
these surfaces, it’s very easy to lose control. On wet ice, for 
example, the traction is so poor that you will have difficulty 
accelerating. And if you do get moving, poor steering and 
difficult braking can cause you to slide out of control. 


A CAUTION: 


Driving on frozen lakes, ponds or rivers can be 
dangerous. Underwater springs, currents under 
the ice, or sudden thaws can weaken the ice. Your 
vehicle could fall through the ice and you and 
your passengers could drown. Drive your vehicle 
on safe surfaces only. 


Driving in Water 

Light rain causes no special off-road driving problems. 
But heavy rain can mean flash flooding, and flood 
waters demand extreme caution. 

Find out how deep the water is before you drive through 
it. If it’s deep enough to cover your wheel hubs, axles or 
exhaust pipe, don’t try it -- you probably won’t get 
through. Also, water that deep can damage your axle 
and other vehicle parts. 


If the water isn’t too deep, then drive through it slowly. 

At fast speeds, water splashes on your ignition system and 
your vehicle can stall. Stalling can also occur if you get 
your tailpipe under water. And, as long as your tailpipe is 
under water, you’ll never be able to start your engine. 
When you go through water, remember that when your 
brakes get wet, it may take you longer to stop. 


A CAUTION: 


Driving through rushing water can be dangerous. 
Deep water can sweep your vehicle downstream 
and you and your passengers could drown. If it’s 
only shallow water, it can still wash away the 
ground from under your tires, and you could lose 
traction and roll the vehicle over. Don’t drive 
through rushing water. 


See “Driving Through Water” in the Index for more 
information on driving through water. 


4-25 


After Off-Road Driving 

Remove any brash or debris that has collected 
on the underbody, chassis or under the hood. 

These accumulations can be a fire hazard. 

After operation in mud or sand, have the brake linings 
cleaned and checked. These substances can cause 
glazing and uneven braking. Check the body structure, 
steering, suspension, wheels, tires and exhaust system 
for damage. Also, check the fuel lines and cooling 
system for any leakage. 

Your vehicle will require more frequent service due to 
off-road use. Refer to the Maintenance Schedule for 
additional information. 


4-26 


Driving at Night 



Night driving is more dangerous than day driving. One 
reason is that some drivers are likely to be impaired — by 
alcohol or drugs, with night vision problems, or by fatigue. 

Here are some tips on night driving. 

• Drive defensively. 

• Don’t drink and drive. 



• Adjust your inside rearview mirror to reduce the 
glare from headlamps behind you. 

• Since you can’t see as well, you may need to 
slow down and keep more space between you and 
other vehicles. 

• Slow down, especially on higher speed roads. Your 
headlamps can light up only so much road ahead. 

• In remote areas, watch for animals. 

• If you’re tired, pull off the road in a safe place 
and rest. 

No one can see as well at night as in the daytime. But as 
we get older these differences increase. A 50-year-old 
driver may require at least twice as much light to see the 
same thing at night as a 20-year-old. 

What you do in the daytime can also affect your night 
vision. For example, if you spend the day in bright 
sunshine you are wise to wear sunglasses. Your eyes will 
have less trouble adjusting to night. But if you’re 
driving, don’t wear sunglasses at night. They may cut 
down on glare from headlamps, but they also make a lot 
of things invisible. 


You can be temporarily blinded by approaching 
headlamps. It can take a second or two, or even several 
seconds, for your eyes to readjust to the dark. 

When you are faced with severe glare (as from a driver 
who doesn’t lower the high beams, or a vehicle with 
misaimed headlamps), slow down a little. Avoid staring 
directly into the approaching headlamps. 

Keep your windshield and all the glass on your vehicle 
clean — inside and out. Glare at night is made much 
worse by dirt on the glass. Even the inside of the glass 
can build up a film caused by dust. Dirty glass makes 
lights dazzle and flash more than clean glass would, 
making the pupils of your eyes contract repeatedly. 

Remember that your headlamps light up far less of a 
roadway when you are in a turn or curve. Keep your 
eyes moving; that way, it’s easier to pick out dimly 
lighted objects. Just as your headlamps should be 
checked regularly for proper aim, so should your eyes 
be examined regularly. Some drivers suffer from night 
blindness -- the inability to see in dim light — and 
aren’t even aware of it. 


4-27 


Driving in Rain and on Wet Roads 


Rain and wet roads can mean driving trouble. On a wet 
road, you can’t stop, accelerate or turn as well because 
your tire-to-road traction isn’t as good as on dry roads. 
And, if your tires don’t have much tread left, you’ll get 
even less traction. It’s always wise to go slower and be 
cautious if rain starts to fall while you are driving. The 
surface may get wet suddenly when your reflexes are 
tuned for driving on dry pavement. 

The heavier the rain, the harder it is to see. Even if your 
windshield wiper blades are in good shape, a heavy rain 
can make it harder to see road signs and traffic signals, 
pavement markings, the edge of the road and even 
people walking. 

It’s wise to keep your wiping equipment in good shape 
and keep your windshield washer tank filled with 
washer fluid. Replace your windshield wiper inserts 
when they show signs of streaking or missing areas on 
the windshield, or when strips of rubber start to separate 
from the inserts. 



Driving too fast through large water puddles or even 
going through some car washes can cause problems, too. 
The water may affect your brakes. Try to avoid puddles. 
But if you can’t, try to slow down before you hit them. 


A CAUTION: 


Wet brakes can cause accidents. They won’t work 
as well in a quick stop and may cause pulling to 
one side. You could lose control of the vehicle. 

After driving through a large puddle of water or 
a car wash, apply your brake pedal lightly until 
your brakes work normally. 


Hydroplaning 

Hydroplaning is dangerous. So much water can build up 
under your tires that they can actually ride on the water. 
This can happen if the road is wet enough and you’re 
going fast enough. When your vehicle is hydroplaning, 
it has little or no contact with the road. 

Hydroplaning doesn’t happen often. But it can if your 
tires do not have much tread or if the pressure in one or 
more is low. It can happen if a lot of water is standing on 
the road. If you can see reflections from trees, telephone 
poles or other vehicles, and raindrops “dimple” the 
water’s surface, there could be hydroplaning. 


4-29 


Hydroplaning usually happens at higher speeds. 

There just isn’t a hard and fast rule about hydroplaning. 
The best advice is to slow down when it is raining. 

Driving Through Deep Standing Water 


NOTICE: 


If you drive too quickly through deep puddles 
or standing water, water can come in through 
your engine’s air intake and badly damage your 
engine. Never drive through water that is slightly 
lower than the underbody of your vehicle. If you 
can’t avoid deep puddles or standing water, drive 
through them very slowly. 


4-30 


Driving Through Flowing Water 


A CAUTION: 


Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. 
If you try to drive through flowing water, as you 
might at a low water crossing, your vehicle can 
be carried away. As little as six inches of flowing 
water can carry away a smaller vehicle. If this 
happens, you and the other vehicle occupants 
could drown. Don’t ignore police warning signs, 
and otherwise be very cautious about trying to 
drive through flowing water. 


Some Other Rainy Weather Tips 

• Turn on your low-beam headlamps — not just your 
parking lamps — to help make you more visible to others. 

• Besides slowing down, allow some extra following 
distance. And be especially careful when you pass 
another vehicle. Allow yourself more clear room 
ahead, and be prepared to have your view restricted 
by road spray. 

• Have good tires with proper tread depth. 

(See “Tires” in the Index.) 


City Driving 



One of the biggest problems with city streets is the 
amount of traffic on them. You’ll want to watch out for 
what the other drivers are doing and pay attention to 
traffic signals. 

Here are ways to increase your safety in city driving: 

• Know the best way to get to where you are 
going. Get a city map and plan your trip into an 
unknown part of the city just as you would for a 
cross-country trip. 

• Try to use the freeways that rim and crisscross most 
large cities. You’ll save time and energy. (See the 
next part, “Freeway Driving.”) 

• Treat a green light as a warning signal. A traffic light 
is there because the corner is busy enough to need it. 
When a light turns green, and just before you start to 
move, check both ways for vehicles that have not 
cleared the intersection or may be running the 

red light. 


4-31 


Freeway Driving 



Mile for mile, freeways (also called thruways, parkways, 
expressways, turnpikes or superhighways) are the safest 
of all roads. But they have their own special rules. 

The most important advice on freeway driving is: Keep 
up with traffic and keep to the right. Drive at the same 
speed most of the other drivers are driving. Too-fast or 
too-slow driving breaks a smooth traffic flow. Treat the 
left lane on a freeway as a passing lane. 

4-32 


At the entrance, there is usually a ramp that leads to the 
freeway. If you have a clear view of the freeway as you 
drive along the entrance ramp, you should begin to 
check traffic. Try to determine where you expect to 
blend with the flow. Try to merge into the gap at close to 
the prevailing speed. Switch on your turn signal, check 
your mirrors and glance over your shoulder as often as 
necessary. Try to blend smoothly with the traffic flow. 

Once you are on the freeway, adjust your speed to the 
posted limit or to the prevailing rate if it’s slower. Stay 
in the right lane unless you want to pass. 

Before changing lanes, check your mirrors. Then use 
your turn signal. 

Just before you leave the lane, glance quickly over your 
shoulder to make sure there isn’t another vehicle in your 
“blind” spot. 

Once you are moving on the freeway, make certain you 
allow a reasonable following distance. Expect to move 
slightly slower at night. 

When you want to leave the freeway, move to the proper 
lane well in advance. If you miss your exit, do not, 
under any circumstances, stop and back up. Drive on to 
the next exit. 

The exit ramp can be curved, sometimes quite sharply. 


The exit speed is usually posted. 

Reduce your speed according to your speedometer, not 
to your sense of motion. After driving for any distance 
at higher speeds, you may tend to think you are going 
slower than you actually are. 

Before Leaving on a Long Trip 

Make sure you’re ready. Try to be well rested. If you 
must start when you’re not fresh -- such as after a day’s 
work -- don’t plan to make too many miles that first part 
of the journey. Wear comfortable clothing and shoes you 
can easily drive in. 

Is your vehicle ready for a long trip? If you keep it 
serviced and maintained, it’s ready to go. If it needs 
service, have it done before starting out. Of course, 
you’ll find experienced and able service experts in GM 
dealerships all across North America. They’ll be ready 
and willing to help if you need it. 


Here are some things you can check before a trip: 

• Windshield Washer Fluid: Is the reservoir full? 

Are all windows clean inside and outside? 

• Wiper Blades: Are they in good shape? 

• Fuel, Engine Oil, Other Fluids: Have you checked 
all levels? 

• Lamps: Are they all working? Are the lenses clean? 

• Tires: They are vitally important to a safe, 
trouble-free trip. Is the tread good enough for 
long-distance driving? Are the tires all inflated to the 
recommended pressure? 

• Weather Forecasts: What’s the weather outlook 
along your route? Should you delay your trip a short 
time to avoid a major storm system? 

• Maps: Do you have up-to-date maps? 


4-33 


Highway Hypnosis 

Is there actually such a condition as “highway hypnosis”? 
Or is it just plain falling asleep at the wheel? Call it 
highway hypnosis, lack of awareness, or whatever. 

There is something about an easy stretch of road with the 
same scenery, along with the hum of the tires on the road, 
the drone of the engine, and the rush of the wind against 
the vehicle that can make you sleepy. Don’t let it happen 
to you! If it does, your vehicle can leave the road in less 
than a second, and you could crash and be injured. 

What can you do about highway hypnosis? 

First, be aware that it can happen. 

Then here are some tips: 

• Make sure your vehicle is well ventilated, with a 
comfortably cool interior. 

• Keep your eyes moving. Scan the road ahead and 
to the sides. Check your mirrors and your 
instruments frequently. 

• If you get sleepy, pull off the road into a rest, service 
or parking area and take a nap, get some exercise, or 
both. For safety, treat drowsiness on the highway as 
an emergency. 


4-34 


Hill and Mountain Roads 



Driving on steep hills or mountains is different from 
driving in flat or rolling terrain. 

If you drive regularly in steep country, or if you’re 
planning to visit there, here are some tips that can make 
your trips safer and more enjoyable. (See “Off-Road 
Driving” in the Index for information about 
driving off-road.) 


• Keep your vehicle in good shape. Check all fluid 
levels and also the brakes, tires, cooling system and 
transmission. These parts can work hard on 
mountain roads. 

• Know how to go down hills. The most important 
thing to know is this: let your engine do some of the 
slowing down. Shift to a lower gear when you go 
down a steep or long hill. 


A CAUTION: 


If you don’t shift down, your brakes could 
get so hot that they wouldn’t work well. You 
would then have poor braking or even none going 
down a hill. You could crash. Shift down to let 
your engine assist your brakes on a steep 
downhill slope. 


A CAUTION: 


Coasting downhill in NEUTRAL (N) or with the 
ignition off is dangerous. Your brakes will have to 
do all the work of slowing down. They could get so 
hot that they wouldn’t work well. You would then 
have poor braking or even none going down a hill. 
You could crash. Always have your engine running 
and your vehicle in gear when you go downhill. 


• Know how to go uphill. You may want to shift down 
to a lower gear. The lower gears help cool your engine 
and transmission, and you can climb the hill better. 

• Stay in your own lane when driving on two-lane 
roads in hills or mountains. Don’t swing wide or cut 
across the center of the road. Drive at speeds that let 
you stay in your own lane. 

• As you go over the top of a hill, be alert. There could be 
something in your lane, like a stalled car or an accident. 

• You may see highway signs on mountains that warn of 
special problems. Examples are long grades, passing or 
no-passing zones, a falling rocks area or winding 
roads. Be alert to these and take appropriate action. 


4-35 


Winter Driving 



Here are some tips for winter driving: 

• Have your vehicle in good shape for winter. 

• You may want to put winter emergency supplies in 
your vehicle. 


4-36 


Include an ice scraper, a small brush or broom, a supply 
of windshield washer fluid, a rag, some winter outer 
clothing, a small shovel, a flashlight, a red cloth and 
reflective warning triangles. And, if you will be driving 
under severe conditions, include a small bag of sand, a 
piece of old carpet or a couple of burlap bags to help 
provide traction. Be sure you properly secure these 
items in your vehicle. 

Driving on Snow or Ice 

Most of the time, those places where your tires meet the 
road probably have good traction. 

However, if there is snow or ice between your tires 
and the road, you can have a very slippery situation. 
You’ll have a lot less traction or “grip” and will need to 
be very careful. 





What’s the worst time for this? “Wet ice.” Very cold 
snow or ice can be slick and hard to drive on. But wet 
ice can be even more trouble because it may offer the 
least traction of all. You can get wet ice when it’s about 
freezing (32°F; 0°C) and freezing rain begins to fall. 
Try to avoid driving on wet ice until salt and sand crews 
can get there. 


Whatever the condition — smooth ice, packed, blowing 
or loose snow -- drive with caution. 

Accelerate gently. Try not to break the fragile traction. 

If you accelerate too fast, the drive wheels will spin and 
polish the surface under the tires even more. 

Your anti-lock brakes improve your vehicle’s stability 
when you make a hard stop on a slippery road. Even 
though you have an anti-lock braking system, you’ll 
want to begin stopping sooner than you would on dry 
pavement. See “Anti-Lock” in the Index. 

• Allow greater following distance on any 
slippery road. 

• Watch for slippery spots. The road might be fine 
until you hit a spot that’s covered with ice. On an 
otherwise clear road, ice patches may appear in 
shaded areas where the sun can’t reach: around 
clumps of trees, behind buildings or under bridges. 
Sometimes the surface of a curve or an overpass may 
remain icy when the surrounding roads are clear. If 
you see a patch of ice ahead of you, brake before you 
are on it. Try not to brake while you’re actually on 
the ice, and avoid sudden steering maneuvers. 


4-37 


If You’re Caught in a Blizzard 



If you are stopped by heavy snow, you could be in a 
serious situation. You should probably stay with your 
vehicle unless you know for sure that you are near help 
and you can hike through the snow. Here are some 
things to do to summon help and keep yourself and your 
passengers safe: 

• Turn on your hazard flashers. 


4-38 


• Tie a red cloth to your vehicle to alert police that 
you’ve been stopped by the snow. 

• Put on extra clothing or wrap a blanket around you. 
If you have no blankets or extra clothing, make body 
insulators from newspapers, burlap bags, rags, floor 
mats -- anything you can wrap around yourself or 
tuck under your clothing to keep warm. 



You can run the engine to keep warm, but be careful. 


A CAUTION: 


Snow can trap exhaust gases under your vehicle. 
This can cause deadly CO (carbon monoxide) gas 
to get inside. CO could overcome you and kill 
you. You can’t see it or smell it, so you might not 
know it is in your vehicle. Clear away snow from 
around the base of your vehicle, especially any 
that is blocking your exhaust pipe. And check 
around again from time to time to be sure snow 
doesn’t collect there. 

Open a window just a little on the side of the 
vehicle that’s away from the wind. This will help 
keep CO out. 


Run your engine only as long as you must. This saves 
fuel. When you run the engine, make it go a little faster 
than just idle. That is, push the accelerator slightly. This 
uses less fuel for the heat that you get and it keeps the 
battery charged. You will need a well-charged battery to 
restart the vehicle, and possibly for signaling later on 
with your headlamps. Let the heater run for a while. 


Then, shut the engine off and close the window almost 
all the way to preserve the heat. Start the engine again 
and repeat this only when you feel really uncomfortable 
from the cold. But do it as little as possible. Preserve the 
fuel as long as you can. To help keep warm, you can get 
out of the vehicle and do some fairly vigorous exercises 
every half hour or so until help comes. 

Recreational Vehicle Towing 

Your vehicle should not be towed with all four wheels 
on the ground. Your transmission has no provision for 
internal lubrication while being towed. To properly tow 
your vehicle, it should be placed on a platform trailer 
with all four wheels off the ground. Towing with all four 
wheels on the ground should be avoided. 

In rare cases when it’s unavoidable and your vehicle must 
be towed with all four wheels on the ground, the propeller 
shaft to axle yoke orientation should be marked and the 
propeller shaft removed following the applicable service 
manual removal/installation procedure. See “Service and 
Owner Publications” in the Index. 


4-39 


Dust or dirt can enter the back of the transmission 
through the opening created by removing the propeller 
shaft if proper protection is not provided. Also, check 
the transmission fluid level before driving the vehicle. 

When towing your vehicle, turn the ignition to OFF. 

To prevent your battery from draining while towing, 
remove the RDO BATT fuse from the instrument panel 
fuse block. Be sure to replace the fuse when you reach 
your destination. See “Fuses and Circuit Breakers” in 
the Index. 

Be sure to use the proper towing equipment designed for 
recreational vehicle towing. Follow the instructions for 
the towing equipment. 


4-40 


Loading Your Vehicle 



The Certification/Tire label is found on the driver’s door 
edge, above the door latch. The label shows the size of 
your original tires and the inflation pressures needed to 
obtain the gross weight capacity of your vehicle. This is 
called the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR). The 
GVWR includes the weight of the vehicle, all occupants, 
fuel, cargo and trailer tongue weight, if pulling a trailer. 


The Certification/Tire label also tells you the maximum 
weights for the front and rear axles, called Gross Axle 
Weight Rating (GAWR). To find out the actual loads on 
your front and rear axles, you need to go to a weigh 
station and weigh your vehicle. Your dealer can help 
you with this. Be sure to spread out your load equally on 
both sides of the centerline. 

Never exceed the GVWR for your vehicle, or the 
GAWR for either the front or rear axle. 

And, if you do have a heavy load, you should 
spread it out. 

Similar appearing vehicles may have different GVWRs 
and payloads. Please note the Certification/Tire label on 
your truck or consult your dealer for additional details. 


A CAUTION: 


In the case of a sudden stop or collision, things 
carried in the bed of your truck could shift 
forward and come into the passenger area, 
injuring you and others. If you put things in the 
bed of your truck, you should make sure they are 
properly secured. 


A CAUTION: 


Do not load your vehicle any heavier than the 
GVWR, or either the maximum front or rear 
GAWR. If you do, parts on your vehicle can 
break, and it can change the way your vehicle 
handles. These could cause you to lose control 
and crash. Also, overloading can shorten the life 
of your vehicle. 


Using heavier suspension components to get added 
durability might not change your weight ratings. Ask 
your dealer to help you load your vehicle the right way. 


NOTICE: 


Your warranty does not cover parts or 
components that fail because of overloading. 


If you put things inside your vehicle -- like suitcases, 
tools, packages, or anything else -- they will go as fast 
as the vehicle goes. If you have to stop or turn quickly, 
or if there is a crash, they’ll keep going. 


4-41 


A CAUTION: 


Things you put inside your vehicle can strike 
and injure people in a sudden stop or turn, or 
in a crash. 

• Put things in the cargo area of your vehicle. 
Try to spread the weight evenly. 

• Never stack heavier things, like suitcases, 
inside the vehicle so that some of them are 
above the tops of the seats. 

• Don’t leave an unsecured child restraint in 
your vehicle. 

• When you carry something inside the 
vehicle, secure it whenever you can. 


There’s also important loading information for off-road 
driving in this manual. See “Loading Your Vehicle for 
Off-Road Driving” in the Index. 


4-42 


Payload 

The payload capacity is shown on the Certification/Tire 
label. This is the maximum load capacity that your 
vehicle can carry. If you are using ethanol fuel the 
maximum payload should not exceed 1000 lbs (454 kg). 
Be sure to include the weight of the occupants as part of 
your load. If you added any accessories or equipment 
after your vehicle left the factory, remember to subtract 
the weight of these things from the payload. Your dealer 
can help you with this. 

2-Tiered Loading 

By positioning four 2 " x 6" wooden planks across the 
width of the pickup box, you can create an upper load 
platform. The planks must be inserted in the pickup box 
depressions. The length of the planks must allow for at 
least a 3/4 inch (2 cm) bearing surface on each end of 
the plank. 

When using this upper load platform, be sure the load is 
securely tied down to prevent it from shifting. The 
load’s center of gravity should be positioned in a zone 
over the rear axle. The zone is located in the area 
between the front of each wheel well and the rear of 
each wheel well. The center of gravity height must not 
extend above the top of the pickup box flareboard. 


Any load that extends beyond the vehicle’s taillamp 
area must be properly marked according to local laws 
and regulations. 

Remember not to exceed the Gross Axle Weight Rating 
(GAWR) of the rear axle. See “Loading Your Vehicle” 
in the Index. 

Add-On Equipment 

When you carry removable items, you may need to put a 
limit on how many people you carry inside your vehicle. 
Be sure to weigh your vehicle before you buy and install 
the new equipment. 


NOTICE: 


Your warranty doesn’t cover parts or 
components that fail because of overloading. 


Truck-Camper Loading Information 

The Truck-Camper Loading label is located on the 
passenger’s door near the latch. It will tell you if your 
vehicle can carry a slide-in camper, how much of a load 
your vehicle can carry, and how to correctly spread out 
your load. Also, it will help you match the right slide-in 
camper to your vehicle. 

When the truck is used to carry a slide-in camper, the 
total cargo load of the truck consists of the 
manufacturer’s camper weight figure, the weight of 
installed additional camper equipment not included in 
the manufacturer’s camper weight figure, the weight of 
camper cargo, and the weight of passengers in the 
camper. The total cargo load should not exceed the 
truck’s cargo weight rating and the camper’s center of 
gravity should fall within the truck’s recommended 
center of gravity zone when installed. 

The Cargo Weight Rating (CWR) is the maximum 
weight of the load your vehicle can carry. It doesn’t 
include the weight of the people inside. But, you can 
figure about 150 lbs. (68 kg) for each seating position. 
The total cargo load must not be more than your 
vehicle’s CWR. 


4-43 


Refer to the Truck-Camper Loading Information Label 
on the passenger’s door for dimensions A and B as 
shown in the following illustration. 



Use the rear edge of the load floor for measurement 
purposes. The recommended location for the cargo 
center of gravity for the Cargo Weight Rating (C) is 
the point where the mass of a body is concentrated 
and, if suspended at that point, would balance the front 
and rear. 


4-44 


Here is an example of proper truck and camper match: 



A. Camper Center of Gravity 

B. Recommended Center of Gravity Location Zone 

The camper’s center of gravity should fall within the 
center of gravity zone for your vehicle’s cargo load. 
Campers can only be installed in a long box pickup. 
Check your Truck-Camper Loading Label on the 
passenger’s door to determine if your vehicle can carry a 
slide-in camper. 


You must weigh any accessories, trailer hitches or other 
equipment you add to your vehicle. Then, subtract this 
extra weight from the CWR. This extra weight may 
shorten the center of gravity zone for your vehicle. 

Your dealer can help you with this. 

If your slide-in camper and its load weigh less than the 
CWR, the center of gravity zone for your vehicle may 
be larger. 

Your dealer can help you make a good vehicle-camper 
match. He’ll also help you determine your CWR. 

Secure loose items to prevent weight shifts that could 
affect the balance of your vehicle. When the truck camper 
is loaded, drive to a scale and weigh on the front and on 
the rear wheels separately to determine axle loads. 
Individual axle loads should not exceed either of the Gross 
Axle Weight Ratings (GAWR). The total of the axle loads 
should not exceed the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating 
(GVWR). These ratings are given on the vehicle 
certification label that is located on the rear of the 
passenger’s door. If weight ratings are exceeded, move or 
remove items to bring all weights below the ratings. 

If you want more information on curb weights, cargo 
weights, cargo weight rating and the correct center of 
gravity zone for your vehicle, your dealer can help you. 
Just ask for a copy of “Consumer Information, 
Taick-Camper Loading.” 


Trailer Recommendations 

You must subtract your hitch load from the CWR for 
your vehicle. Weigh your vehicle with your trailer 
attached, so that you won’t go over the GVWR 
or the GAWR. 

You’ll get the best performance if you spread out the 
weight of your load the right way, and if you choose the 
correct hitch and trailer brakes. 

For more information, see “Towing a Trailer” later in 
this section. 

Pickup Conversion to Chassis Cab 

General Motors is aware that some vehicle owners may 
consider having the pickup box removed and a 
commercial or recreational body installed. However, we 
recommend that conversions of this type not be done to 
pickups. Owners should be aware that, as manufactured, 
there are differences between a chassis cab and a pickup 
with the box removed which may affect vehicle safety. 
For specific information on this pickup, contact the 
GM Customer Assistance Office for your area. 

(See the “Warranty and Owner Assistance” booklet 
for Customer Assistance Office.) 


4-45 


Towing a Trailer 
A CAUTION: 


If you don’t use the correct equipment and drive 
properly, you can lose control when you pull a 
trailer. For example, if the trailer is too heavy, the 
brakes may not work well — or even at all. You 
and your passengers could be seriously injured. 
Pull a trailer only if you have followed all the 
steps in this section. Ask your dealer for advice 
and information about towing a trailer with 
your vehicle. 


NOTICE: 


Pulling a trailer improperly can damage your 
vehicle and result in costly repairs not covered by 
your warranty. To pull a trailer correctly, follow 
the advice in this part, and see your dealer for 
important information about towing a trailer 
with your vehicle. 


4-46 


Your vehicle may be able to tow a trailer. To identify 
what the vehicle trailering capacity is for your vehicle, 
you should read the information in “Weight of the 
Trailer” that appears later in this section. 

If yours was built with trailering options, as many are, 
it’s ready for heavier trailers. But trailering is different 
than just driving your vehicle by itself. Trailering means 
changes in handling, durability and fuel economy. 
Successful, safe trailering takes correct equipment, and 
it has to be used properly. 

That’s the reason for this part. In it are many 
time-tested, important trailering tips and safety rules. 
Many of these are important for your safety and that of 
your passengers. So please read this section carefully 
before you pull a trailer. 


If You Do Decide To Pull A Trailer 

If you do, here are some important points: 

• If you have the 2200 L4 (Code 5) engine, use regular 
gasoline (without ethanol) when pulling a trailer. 

See “Fuel” in the Index. 

• There are many different laws, including speed limit 
restrictions, having to do with trailering. Make sure 
your rig will be legal, not only where you live but 
also where you’ll be driving. A good source for this 
information can be state or provincial police. 

• Consider using a sway control if your trailer will 
weigh 2,000 lbs. (900 kg) or less. You should always 
use a sway control if your trailer will weigh more 
than 2,000 lbs. (900 kg). You can ask a hitch dealer 
about sway controls. 

• Don’t tow a trailer at all during the first 500 miles 
(800 km) your new vehicle is driven. Your engine, 
axle or other parts could be damaged. 

• Then, during the first 500 miles (800 km) that you 
tow a trailer, don’t drive over 50 mph (80 km/h) and 
don’t make starts at full throttle. This helps your 
engine and other parts of your vehicle wear in at the 
heavier loads. 


• If you have an automatic transmission, you can 
use THIRD (3) (or, as you need to, a lower gear) 
when towing a trailer. Operating your vehicle in 
THIRD (3) when towing a trailer will minimize heat 
buildup and extend the life of your transmission. If 
you have a manual transmission and you are towing 
a trailer, it’s better not to use FIFTH (5) gear. Just 
drive in FOURTH (4) gear (or, as you need to, a 
lower gear). See “Tow/Haul Mode” in the Index. 

Three important considerations have to do with weight: 

• the weight of the trailer, 

• the weight of the trailer tongue 

• and the weight on your vehicle’s tires. 

Weight of the Trailer 

How heavy can a trailer safely be? 

It depends on how you plan to use your rig. 

For example, speed, altitude, road grades, outside 

temperature and how much your vehicle is used to pull a 

trailer are all important. And, it can also depend on any 

special equipment that you have on your vehicle. 


4-47 


The following chart shows how much your trailer can 
weigh, based upon your vehicle model and options. 



Axle 


Vehicle 

Ratio 

Max. Trailer Wt. 

2WD 2.2L 

3.73 

2,000 lbs. (908 kg) 

L4 Engine*# 

4.10 

2,300 lbs. (1044 kg) 

2WD “VORTEC” 

3.08 

5,400 lbs. (2 451 kg) 

4300 V6, 

3.42 

6,400 lbs. (2 905 kg) 

Auto. Trans.* 



2WD “VORTEC” 

3.08 

4,200 lbs. (1 906 kg) 

4300 V6, 



Man. Trans.* 



4WD “VORTEC” 

3.08 

4,900 lbs. (2 224 kg) 

4300 V6 

3.42 

5,900 lbs. (2 678 kg) 

Auto. Trans. 

3.73 

5,900 lbs. (2 678 kg) 

4WD “VORTEC” 

3.08 

3,900 lbs. (1 770 kg) 

4300 V6 

3.42 

4,400 lbs. (1 997 kg) 

Man. Trans. 

3.73 

4,900 lbs. (2 224 kg) 


* If your vehicle is equipped with RPO V4A 
(Xtreme ™ Sport Appearance Package), your vehicle 
was neither intended nor designed to tow a trailer. For 
more information on RPO codes, see “Service Parts 
Identification Label” in the Index. 


4-48 


# If your vehicle is equipped with a code 5 engine 
you must use regular unleaded gasoline rated at 
87 octane or higher when towing. 

Optional body styles, equipment, passengers or cargo 
will reduce trailer rating. 

Maximum trailer weight is calculated assuming the 
driver and one passenger are in the tow vehicle and it 
has all the required trailering equipment. The weight of 
additional optional equipment, passengers and cargo in 
the tow vehicle must be subtracted from the maximum 
trailer weight. The weight of the trailer tongue also 
affects trailering capacity. See “Weight of the Trailer 
Tongue” later in this section. 

You can ask your dealer for our trailering information or 
advice, or you can write us at the address listed in your 
Warranty and Owner Assistance Information Booklet. 

In Canada, write to: 

General Motors of Canada Limited 
Customer Communication Centre 
1908 Colonel Sam Drive 
Oshawa, Ontario L1H 8P7 


Weight of the Trailer Tongue 

The tongue load (A) of any trailer is an important 
weight to measure because it affects the total or gross 
weight of your vehicle. The Gross Vehicle Weight 
(GVW) includes the curb weight of the vehicle, any 
cargo you may carry in it, and the people who will be 
riding in the vehicle. And if you will tow a trailer, you 
must add the tongue load to the GVW because your 
vehicle will be carrying that weight, too. See “Loading 
Your Vehicle” in the Index for more information about 
your vehicle’s maximum load capacity. 



If you’re using a weight-carrying hitch, the trailer 
tongue (A) should weigh 10 percent of the total loaded 
trailer weight (B). If you’re using a weight-distributing 
hitch, the trailer tongue (A) should weigh 12 percent of 
the total loaded trailer weight (B). 

After you’ve loaded your trailer, weigh the trailer and 
then the tongue, separately, to see if the weights are 
proper. If they aren’t, you may be able to get them right 
simply by moving some items around in the trailer. 

Total Weight on Your Vehicle’s Tires 

Be sure your vehicle’s tires are inflated to the upper 
limit for cold tires. You’ll find these numbers on the 
Certification label at the rear edge of the driver’s door 
edge, above the door latch, or see “Tire Loading” in 
the Index. Then be sure you don’t go over the GVW 
limit for your vehicle, including the weight of the 
trailer tongue. 


4-49 


Hitches 


It’s important to have the correct hitch equipment. 
Crosswinds, large tracks going by and rough roads are a 
few reasons why you’ll need the right hitch. Here are 
some rules to follow: 

• If you use a step-bumper hitch, your bumper could 
be damaged in sharp turns. Make sure you have 
ample room when turning to avoid contact between 
the trailer and the bumper. 

• If you’ll be pulling a trailer that, when loaded, will 
weigh more than 3,500 lbs. (1 589 kg), be sure to use 
a properly mounted, weight-distributing hitch and 
sway control of the proper size. This equipment is 
very important for proper vehicle loading and good 
handling when you’re driving. 

• If your vehicle has the bumper delete option, do 
not bolt any type of hitch to the close-out panel. 

The close-out panel will not support a hitch. 


4-50 


Safety Chains 

You should always attach chains between your vehicle and 
your trailer. Cross the safety chains under the tongue of the 
trailer to help prevent the tongue from contacting the road 
if it becomes separated from the hitch. Instructions about 
safety chains may be provided by the hitch manufacturer 
or by the trailer manufacturer. For trailers up to 3,500 lbs. 
(1 589 kg) you may attach the safety chains to the 
attaching points on the bumper. For heavier trailers, follow 
the trailer or hitch manufacturer’s recommendation for 
attaching safety chains. Always leave just enough slack so 
you can turn with your rig. Never allow safety chains to 
drag on the ground. 

Trailer Brakes 

If your trailer weighs more than 1,000 lbs. (450 kg) 
loaded, then it needs its own brakes -- and they must be 
adequate. Be sure to read and follow the instructions for 
the trailer brakes so you’ll be able to install, adjust and 
maintain them properly. 


Your trailer’s brake system can tap into the vehicle’s 
hydraulic brake system only if: 

• The trailer parts can withstand 3,000 psi 
(20 650 kPa) of pressure. 

• The trailer’s brake system will use less than 

0.02 cubic inch (0.3 cc) of fluid from your vehicle’s 
master cylinder. Otherwise, both braking systems 
won’t work well. You could even lose your brakes. 

If everything checks out this far, then make the brake 
fluid tap at the port on the master cylinder that sends 
fluid to the rear brakes. But don’t use copper tubing for 
this. If you do, it will bend and finally break off. 

Use steel brake tubing. 

Driving with a Trailer 

Towing a trailer requires a certain amount of experience. 
Before setting out for the open road, you’ll want to get 
to know your rig. Acquaint yourself with the feel of 
handling and braking with the added weight of the 
trailer. And always keep in mind that the vehicle you are 
driving is now a good deal longer and not nearly as 
responsive as your vehicle is by itself. 


Before you start, check the trailer hitch and platform 
(and attachments), safety chains, electrical connector, 
lamps, tires and mirror adjustment. If the trailer has 
electric brakes, start your vehicle and trailer moving and 
then apply the trailer brake controller by hand to be sure 
the brakes are working. This lets you check your 
electrical connection at the same time. 

During your trip, check occasionally to be sure that the 
load is secure, and that the lamps and any trailer brakes 
are still working. 

Following Distance 

Stay at least twice as far behind the vehicle ahead as you 
would when driving your vehicle without a trailer. This 
can help you avoid situations that require heavy braking 
and sudden turns. 

Passing 

You’ll need more passing distance up ahead when 
you’re towing a trailer. And, because you’re a good deal 
longer, you’ll need to go much farther beyond the 
passed vehicle before you can return to your lane. 


4-51 


Backing Up 

Hold the bottom of the steering wheel with one hand. 
Then, to move the trailer to the left, just move that hand 
to the left. To move the trailer to the right, move your 
hand to the right. Always back up slowly and, if 
possible, have someone guide you. 

Making Turns 


NOTICE: 


Making very sharp turns while trailering could 
cause the trailer to come in contact with the 
vehicle. Your vehicle could be damaged. Avoid 
making very sharp turns while trailering. 


When you’re turning with a trailer, make wider turns than 
normal. Do this so your trailer won’t strike soft shoulders, 
curbs, road signs, trees or other objects. Avoid jerky or 
sudden maneuvers. Signal well in advance. 


4-52 


Turn Signals When Towing a Trailer 

When you tow a trailer, your vehicle has to have extra 
wiring and a heavy-duty turn signal flasher. 

The arrows on your instrument panel will flash 
whenever you signal a turn or lane change. Properly 
hooked up, the trailer lamps will also flash, telling other 
drivers you’re about to turn, change lanes or stop. 

When towing a trailer, the arrows on your instrument panel 
will flash for turns even if the bulbs on the trailer are burned 
out. Thus, you may think drivers behind you are seeing your 
signal when they are not. It’s important to check occasionally 
to be sure the trailer bulbs are still working. 

Driving On Grades 

Reduce speed and shift to a lower gear before you start 
down a long or steep downgrade. If you don’t shift 
down, you might have to use your brakes so much that 
they would get hot and no longer work well. 

If you have an automatic transmission, you should use 
THIRD (3) when towing a trailer. Operating your 
vehicle in THIRD (3) when towing a trailer will 
minimize heat buildup and extend the life of your 
transmission. Or, if you have a manual transmission, it’s 
better not to use FIFTH (5). Just drive in FOURTH (4) 
(or, as you need to, a lower gear). 


When towing at high altitude on steep uphill grades, 
consider the following: Engine coolant will boil at a 
lower temperature than at normal altitudes. If you turn 
your engine off immediately after towing at high altitude 
on steep uphill grades, your vehicle may show signs 
similar to engine overheating. To avoid this, let the 
engine run while parked (preferably on level ground) 
with the automatic transmission in PARK (P) (or the 
manual transmission out of gear and the parking brake 
applied) for a few minutes before turning the engine off. 
If you do get the overheat warning, see “Engine 
Overheating” in the Index. 

Parking on Hills 


A CAUTION: 


You really should not park your vehicle, with a 
trailer attached, on a hill. If something goes 
wrong, your rig could start to move. People can 
be injured, and both your vehicle and the trailer 
can be damaged. 


But if you ever have to park your rig on a hill, here’s 

how to do it: 

1. Apply your regular brakes, but don’t shift into 
PARK (P) yet, or into gear for a manual 
transmission. When parking uphill, turn your wheels 
away from the curb. When parking downhill, turn 
your wheels into the curb. 

2. Have someone place chocks under the trailer wheels. 

3. When the wheel chocks are in place, release the 
regular brakes until the chocks absorb the load. 

4. Reapply the regular brakes. Then apply your 
parking brake, and then shift into PARK (P), or 
REVERSE (R) for a manual transmission. 

5. Release the regular brakes. 


4-53 


When You Are Ready to Leave After 
Parking on a Hill 

1 . Apply your regular brakes and hold the pedal down 
while you: 

• Start your engine; 

• Shift into a gear; and 

• Release the parking brake. 

2. Let up on the brake pedal. 

3. Drive slowly until the trailer is clear of the chocks. 

4. Stop and have someone pick up and store the chocks. 


4-54 


Maintenance When Trailer Towing 

Your vehicle will need service more often when you’re 
pulling a trailer. See the Maintenance Schedule for more 
on this. Things that are especially important in 
trailer operation are automatic transmission fluid 
(don’t overfill), engine oil, axle lubricant, belt, cooling 
system and brake system. Each of these is covered in 
this manual, and the Index will help you find them 
quickly. If you’re trailering, it’s a good idea to review 
these sections before you start your trip. 

Check periodically to see that all hitch nuts and bolts 
are tight. 


Section 5 Problems on the Road 


Here you’ll find what to do about some problems that can occur on the road. 


5-2 

Hazard Warning Flashers 

5-18 

5-2 

Other Warning Devices 

5-18 

5-3 

Jump Starting 

5-19 

5-7 

Towing Your Vehicle 

5-30 

5-8 

Engine Overheating 

5-31 

5-9 

Cooling System 



Engine Fan Noise 
If a Tire Goes Flat 
Changing a Flat Tire 
Compact Spare Tire (If Equipped) 

If You’re Stuck: In Sand, Mud, Ice or Snow 


5-1 


Hazard Warning Flashers 



Your hazard warning flashers let you warn others. They 
also let police know you have a problem. Your front and 
rear turn signal lamps will flash on and off. 


5-2 



/ 


V; 


Press the button on top of 
the steering column all the 
way down to make your 
front and rear turn signal 
lamps flash on and off. 


Your hazard warning flashers work no matter what 
position your key is in, and even if the key isn’t in. 

To turn off the flashers, press the button until the first 
click and release. 

When the hazard warning flashers are on, your turn 
signals won’t work. The flashers will stop if you step on 
the brake. 

Other Warning Devices 

If you carry reflective triangles, you can set one up at 
the side of the road about 300 feet (100 m) behind 
your vehicle. 



Jump Starting 

If your battery has run down, you may want to use 
another vehicle and some jumper cables to start your 
vehicle. But please use the following steps to do 
it safely. 


A CAUTION: 


Batteries can hurt you. They can be 
dangerous because: 

• They contain acid that can burn you. 

• They contain gas that can explode or ignite. 

• They contain enough electricity to 
burn you. 

If you don’t follow these steps exactly, some 
or all of these things can hurt you. 


NOTICE: 


Ignoring these steps could result in costly 
damage to your vehicle that wouldn’t be covered 
by your warranty. 

The ACDelco® battery in your vehicle has a 
built-in hydrometer. Do not charge, test or jump 
start the battery if the hydrometer looks clear or 
light yellow. Replace the battery when there 
is a clear or light yellow hydrometer and a 
cranking complaint. 

Trying to start your vehicle by pushing or pulling 
it won’t work, and it could damage your vehicle. 


1. Check the other vehicle. It must have a 12-volt 
battery with a negative ground system. 


NOTICE: 


If the other system isn’t a 12-volt system with a 
negative ground, both vehicles can be damaged. 


5-3 


2. Get the vehicles close enough so the jumper cables 
can reach, but be sure the vehicles aren’t touching 
each other. If they are, it could cause a ground 
connection you don’t want. You wouldn’t be able to 
start your vehicle, and the bad grounding could 
damage the electrical systems. 

To avoid the possibility of the vehicles rolling, set 
the parking brake firmly on both vehicles involved in 
the procedure. Put an automatic transmission vehicle 
in PARK (P) and a manual transmission vehicle 
in NEUTRAL (N). 

3. Turn off the ignition on both vehicles. Unplug 
unnecessary accessories plugged into the cigarette 
lighter, or accessory power outlets, if you have this 
option. Turn off all lamps that aren’t needed as well 
as radios. This will avoid sparks and help save both 
batteries. In addition, it could save your radio! 

4. Open the hoods and locate the batteries. 

Find the positive (+) and negative (-) terminals 
on each battery. 


5-4 


A CAUTION: 


Using a match near a battery can cause battery 
gas to explode. People have been hurt doing this, 
and some have been blinded. Use a flashlight if 
you need more light. 

Be sure the battery has enough water. You don’t 
need to add water to the ACDelco a battery 
installed in every new GM vehicle. But if a 
battery has filler caps, be sure the right amount 
of fluid is there. If it is low, add water to take care 
of that first. If you don’t, explosive gas could 
be present. 

Battery fluid contains acid that can burn you. 
Don’t get it on you. If you accidentally get it in 
your eyes or on your skin, flush the place with 
water and get medical help immediately. 


5. Check that the jumper cables don’t have loose or 
missing insulation. If they do, you could get a shock. 
The vehicles could be damaged too. 

Before you connect the cables, here are some basic 
things you should know. Positive (+) will go to 
positive (+) and negative (-) will go to an unpainted 
metal engine part. Don’t connect positive (+) to 
negative (-) or you’ll get a short that would damage 
the battery and maybe other parts too. 



Connect the 
red positive (+) cable 
to the positive (+) 
terminal of the vehicle 
with the dead battery. 



7. Don’t let the other end 
touch metal. Connect it 
to the positive (+) 
terminal of the 
good battery. 



8. Now connect the 
black negative (-) 
cable to the 
good battery’s 
negative (-) 
terminal. 


5-5 




Don’t let the other end touch anything until the next 
step. The other end of the negative cable doesn’t go 
to the dead battery. It goes to a heavy unpainted 
metal part on the engine of the vehicle with the 
dead battery. 

9. Attach the cable at least 18 inches (45 cm) away 
from the dead battery, but not near engine parts that 
move. The electrical connection is just as good 
there, but the chance of sparks getting back to the 
battery is much less. 

10. Now start the vehicle with the good battery and run 
the engine for awhile. 

1 1 . Try to start the vehicle with the dead battery. If it won’t 
start after a few tries, make sure all connections are 
good. If it still won’t start, it probably needs service. 


A CAUTION: 


Fans or other moving engine parts can injure you 
badly. Keep your hands away from moving parts 
once the engine is running. 


5-6 


12. Remove the cables in reverse order to prevent 
electrical shorting. Take care that they don’t touch 
each other or any other metal. 


© © 








+ 

B 



© 







© 

A 


— + 
C 



A. Heavy Unpainted Metal Engine Part 

B. Good Battery 

C. Dead Battery 


Towing Your Vehicle 
A CAUTION: 


To help avoid serious personal injury to you 

or others: 

• Never let passengers ride in a vehicle that 
is being towed. 

• Never tow faster than safe or posted speeds. 

• Never tow with damaged parts not 
fully secured. 

• Never get under your vehicle after it has 
been lifted by the tow truck. 

• Always secure the vehicle on each side with 
separate safety chains when towing it. 

• Use only the correct hooks. 


NOTICE: 


Use the proper towing equipment to avoid 
damage to the bumper, fascia or fog lamp areas 
of the vehicle. 


With current trends in automotive styles and design, it is 
essential that the correct towing equipment is used to 
tow a vehicle. Your vehicle can be towed with wheel lift 
or car carrier equipment. Vehicles equipped with a 
manual transmission must be placed on a towing dolly 
when towed from the front. Two-wheel-drive vehicles 
must abide by the following tow limits when being 
towed by wheel lift equipment: 

• Towing from the front -- 35 mph (55 km/h), 

50 miles (80 km) 

• Towing from the rear -- 35 mph (55 km/h), 

50 miles (80 km) 

When towing four-wheel-drive vehicles with the 
electronic shift transfer case with wheel lift equipment, a 
towing dolly must be used under the rear wheels when 
towing from the front and the front wheels when towing 
from the rear. 

Consult your dealer or a professional towing service if 
you need to have your vehicle towed. See “Roadside 
Assistance” in the Index. 


5-7 


Engine Overheating 

You will find a coolant temperature gage on your 
vehicle’s instrument panel. See “Gages” in the Index. 

If Steam Is Coming From Your Engine 



5-8 


A CAUTION: 


Steam from an overheated engine can burn you 
badly, even if you just open the hood. Stay away 
from the engine if you see or hear steam coming 
from it. Just turn it off and get everyone away 
from the vehicle until it cools down. Wait until 
there is no sign of steam or coolant before you 
open the hood. 

If you keep driving when your engine is 
overheated, the liquids in it can catch fire. You or 
others could be badly burned. Stop your engine if 
it overheats, and get out of the vehicle until the 
engine is cool. 


NOTICE: 


If your engine catches fire because you keep 
driving with no coolant, your vehicle can be 
badly damaged. The costly repairs would not be 
covered by your warranty. 


If No Steam Is Coming From Your Engine 

If you get an engine overheat warning but see or hear no 

steam, the problem may not be too serious. Sometimes 

the engine can get a little too hot when you: 

• Climb a long hill on a hot day. 

• Stop after high-speed driving. 

• Idle for long periods in traffic. 

• Tow a trailer. See “Driving on Grades” in the Index. 

If you get the overheat warning with no sign of steam, 

try this for a minute or so: 

1. If you have an air conditioner and it’s on, turn it off. 

2. Turn on your heater to full hot at the highest fan 
speed and open the window as necessary. 

3. If you’re in a traffic jam, shift to NEUTRAL (N); 
otherwise, shift to the highest gear while 
driving - DRIVE (D) or THIRD (3) for 
automatic transmissions. 


If you no longer have the overheat warning, you can 
drive. Just to be safe, drive slower for about 10 minutes. 
If the warning doesn’t come back on, you can 
drive normally. 

If the warning continues, pull over, stop, and park your 
vehicle right away. 

If there’s still no sign of steam, push down the 
accelerator until the engine speed is about twice as fast 
as normal idle speed for at least three minutes while 
you’re parked. If you still have the warning, turn off 
the engine and get everyone out of the vehicle until it 
cools down. 

You may decide not to lift the hood but to get service 
help right away. 


5-9 


Cooling System 

When you decide it’s safe to lift the hood, here’s 
what you’ll see: 



A. Coolant Recovery Tank 

B. Radiator Pressure Cap 

C. Engine Fan 


5-10 


If the coolant inside the coolant recovery tank is boiling, 
don’t do anything else until it cools down. 



When the engine is cold, the coolant level should be at 
least up to the ADD mark. If it isn’t, you may have a 
leak in the radiator hoses, heater hoses, radiator, water 
pump or somewhere else in the cooling system. 



A CAUTION: 


Heater and radiator hoses, and other engine 
parts, can be very hot. Don’t touch them. 

If you do, you can be burned. 

Don’t run the engine if there is a leak. If you run 
the engine, it could lose all coolant. That could 
cause an engine fire, and you could be burned. 
Get any leak fixed before you drive the vehicle. 


NOTICE: 


Engine damage from running your engine 
without coolant isn’t covered by your warranty. 


NOTICE: 


When adding coolant, it is important that you 
use only DEX-COOL® (silicate-free) coolant. 
If coolant other than DEX-COOL is added to 
the system, premature engine, heater core or 
radiator corrosion may result. In addition, the 
engine coolant will require change sooner — at 
30,000 miles (50 000 km) or 24 months, 
whichever occurs first. Damage caused by the 
use of coolant other than DEX-COOL® is not 
covered by your new vehicle warranty. 


If there seems to be no leak, start the engine again. 

See if the engine cooling fan speed increases when idle 
speed is doubled by pushing the accelerator pedal 
down. If it doesn’t, your vehicle needs service. 

Turn off the engine. 


5-11 


How to Add Coolant to the Coolant 
Recovery Tank 

If you haven’t found a problem yet, but the coolant level 
isn’t at the ADD mark, add a 50/50 mixture of clean, 
drinkable water and DEX-COOL engine coolant at the 
coolant recovery tank. (See “Engine Coolant” in the 
Index for more information.) 


A CAUTION: 


Adding only plain water to your cooling system 
can be dangerous. Plain water, or some other 
liquid like alcohol, can boil before the proper 
coolant mixture will. Your vehicle’s coolant 
warning system is set for the proper 
coolant mixture. 

CAUTION: (Continued) 


5-12 


CAUTION: (Continued) 


With plain water or the wrong mixture, your 
engine could get too hot but you wouldn’t get 
the overheat warning. Your engine could catch 
fire and you or others could be burned. Use a 
50/50 mixture of clean, drinkable water and 
DEX-COOU® coolant. 


NOTICE: 


In cold weather, water can freeze and crack the 
engine, radiator, heater core and other parts. 
Use the recommended coolant and the proper 
coolant mixture. 



A CAUTION: 


You can be burned if you spill coolant on hot 
engine parts. Coolant contains ethylene glycol 
and it will burn if the engine parts are hot 
enough. Don’t spill coolant on a hot engine. 


When the coolant in the coolant recovery tank is at the 
ADD mark, start your vehicle. 

If the overheat warning continues, there’s one more 
thing you can try. You can add the proper coolant 
mixture directly to the radiator, but be sure the cooling 
system is cool before you do it. 


5-13 



A CAUTION: 


Steam and scalding liquids from a hot cooling 
system can blow out and burn you badly. They 
are under pressure, and if you turn the radiator 
pressure cap -- even a little — they can come out 
at high speed. Never turn the cap when the 
cooling system, including the radiator pressure 
cap, is hot. Wait for the cooling system and 
radiator pressure cap to cool if you ever have to 
turn the pressure cap. 


5-14 




1. You can remove the radiator pressure cap when the 
cooling system, including the radiator pressure cap 
and upper radiator hose, is no longer hot. Turn the 
pressure cap slowly counterclockwise until it first 
stops. (Don’t press down while turning the 
pressure cap.) 

If you hear a hiss, wait for that to stop. A hiss means 
there is still some pressure left. 



2. Then keep turning the pressure cap, but now push 
down as you turn it. Remove the pressure cap. 


5-15 




3. Fill the radiator with the proper DEX-COOL® 
coolant mixture, up to the base of the filler neck. 
(See “Engine Coolant” in the Index for more 
information about the proper coolant mixture.) 


5-16 



4. Then fill the coolant recovery tank to the ADD mark. 

5. Put the cap back on the coolant recovery tank, but 
leave the radiator pressure cap off. 





6. Start the engine and let it run until you can feel the 
upper radiator hose getting hot. Watch out for the 
engine cooling fan. 

7. By this time, the coolant level inside the radiator 
filler neck may be lower. If the level is lower, add 
more of the proper DEX-COOL coolant mixture 
through the filler neck until the level reaches the 
base of the filler neck. 



8. Then replace the pressure cap. At any time during 
this procedure if coolant begins to flow out of the 
filler neck, reinstall the pressure cap. Be sure the 
arrows on the pressure cap line up like this. 


5-17 


Engine Fan Noise 

This vehicle has a clutched engine cooling fan. When 
the clutch is engaged, the fan spins faster to provide 
more air to cool the engine. In most everyday driving 
conditions the clutch is not engaged. This improves fuel 
economy and reduces fan noise. Under heavy vehicle 
loading, trailer towing and/or high outside temperatures, 
the fan speed increases when the clutch engages. So you 
may hear an increase in fan noise. This is normal and 
should not be mistaken as the transmission slipping or 
making extra shifts. It is merely the cooling system 
functioning properly. The fan will slow down 
when additional cooling is not required and the 
clutch disengages. 

You may also hear this fan noise when you start the 
engine. It will go away as the fan clutch disengages. 


5-18 


If a Tire Goes Flat 

It’s unusual for a tire to “blow out” while you’re driving, 
especially if you maintain your tires properly. If air goes 
out of a tire, it’s much more likely to leak out slowly. 

But if you should ever have a “blowout,” here are a few 
tips about what to expect and what to do: 

If a front tire fails, the flat tire will create a drag that 
pulls the vehicle toward that side. Take your foot off the 
accelerator pedal and grip the steering wheel firmly. 
Steer to maintain lane position, and then gently brake to 
a stop well out of the traffic lane. 

A rear blowout, particularly on a curve, acts much like a 
skid and may require the same correction you'd use in a 
skid. In any rear blowout, remove your foot from the 
accelerator pedal. Get the vehicle under control by 
steering the way you want the vehicle to go. It may be 
very bumpy and noisy, but you can still steer. Gently 
brake to a stop -- well off the road if possible. 

If a tire goes flat, the next part shows how to use your 
jacking equipment to change a flat tire safely. 


Changing a Flat Tire 

If a tire goes flat, avoid further tire and wheel damage 
by driving slowly to a level place. Turn on your hazard 
warning flashers. 


A CAUTION: 


Changing a tire can cause an injury. The vehicle 
can slip off the jack and roll over you or other 
people. You and they could be badly injured. 
Find a level place to change your tire. 

To help prevent the vehicle from moving: 

1. Set the parking brake firmly. 

2. Put an automatic transmission shift lever in 
PARK (P) or shift a manual transmission to 
FIRST (1) or REVERSE (R). 

3. Turn off the engine. 

4. Put the wheel blocks at the front and 
rear of the tire farthest away from the 
one being changed. That would be the 
tire on the other side of the vehicle, at 
the opposite end. 



The following steps will tell you how to use the jack and 
change a tire. 

Removing the Spare Tire and Tools 

The jacking equipment you’11 need is stored inside the 
plastic jack cover which is behind the front seats, either 
on the center of the wall (extended cab) or on the 
passenger’s side of the wall (regular cab). 


5-19 



This is the jack cover for the extended cab. 

The cover for the regular cab is similar. To remove 
it, turn the plastic wing nut counterclockwise. 

Remove the jack cover. 

Turn the wing nut counterclockwise and remove the 
wheel blocks, jack and wheel wrench. 

Your spare tire is stored underneath the rear of your 
vehicle. See “Compact Spare Tire" later in this section 
for more information about the compact spare. 


5-20 


NOTICE: 


Never remove or store a tire from/to a storage 
position under the vehicle while the vehicle is 
supported by a jack. Always tighten the tire 
fully against the underside of the vehicle when 
storing it. 



Insert the chisel end 
of the wheel wrench, on 
an angle, into the hole in 
the rear bumper. 


Be sure the chisel end of the wheel wrench connects into 
the hoist shaft. 


Turn the wheel wrench counterclockwise to lower the 
spare tire. Keep turning the wheel wrench until the spare 
tire can be pulled out from under the vehicle. 

When the tire has been completely lowered, tilt the 
retainer at the end of the cable and pull it through the 
wheel opening. Pull the tire out from under the vehicle. 


NOTICE: 


To help avoid vehicle damage, do not drive the 
vehicle before the cable is restored. 


Put the spare tire near the flat tire. 



The tools you’ll be using include the jack (A) and wheel 
wrench (B). Your vehicle may also have an optional hub 
cap removal tool. 


5-21 




Position the bent end of your hub cap removal tool 
(shown), or the chisel end of your wheel wrench, in the 
notch of the hub cap and pry off the hub cap. 

Some of the molded plastic hub caps have imitation 
wheel nuts molded into them. The wheel wrench won’t 
fit these imitation nuts, so don’t try to remove them with 
the socket end of the wheel wrench. 


5-22 



If you have individual wheel nut caps that cover each 
nut, they must be removed in order to get to the wheel 
nuts. Use the socket end of the wheel wrench to remove 
the wheel nut caps. 

Your wheel nut caps may attach your hub cap to the 
wheel. Remove these wheel nut caps before you take off 
the hub cap. 



Removing the Flat Tire and Installing 
the Spare Tire 



1. Using the wheel wrench, loosen all the wheel nuts. 
Don’t remove them yet. 

2. Turn the jack handle clockwise slightly to raise the 
jack lift head. 

3. Fit the jack into the appropriate hole nearest 
the flat tire. 



A. Front Frame Hole 

B. Rear Frame Hole (ZR2) 

C. Spring Hanger Hole (Standard Pickups) 


5-23 



A CAUTION: 


Getting under a vehicle when it is jacked up is 
dangerous. If the vehicle slips off the jack, you 
could be badly injured or killed. Never get under 
a vehicle when it is supported only by a jack. 


A CAUTION: 


Raising your vehicle with the jack improperly 
positioned can damage the vehicle and even 
make the vehicle fall. To help avoid personal 
injury and vehicle damage, be sure to fit the jack 
lift head into the proper location before raising 
the vehicle. 


5-24 



4. Raise the vehicle by turning the jack handle clockwise. 
Raise the vehicle far enough off the ground so there is 
enough room for the spare tire to fit. 

5. Remove all the wheel nuts and take off the flat tire. 




6. Remove any rust or dirt 
from the wheel bolts, 
mounting surfaces and 
spare wheel. 


A CAUTION: 


Rust or dirt on the wheel, or on the parts to 
which it is fastened, can make the wheel nuts 
become loose after a time. The wheel could come 
off and cause an accident. When you change a 
wheel, remove any rust or dirt from the places 
where the wheel attaches to the vehicle. In an 
emergency, you can use a cloth or a paper towel 
to do this; but be sure to use a scraper or wire 
brush later, if you need to, to get all the rust 
or dirt off. 


A CAUTION: 


Never use oil or grease on studs or nuts. If you 
do, the nuts might come loose. Your wheel could 
fall off, causing a serious accident. 


7. Place the spare on the wheel mounting surface. 



8. Put the nuts on by 
hand. Make sure 
the cone-shaped 
end is toward 
the wheel. 


5-25 



Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is held 
against the hub. If a nut can’t be turned by 
hand, use the wheel wrench and see your dealer as 
soon as possible. 



9. Lower the vehicle by turning the jack handle 
counterclockwise. Lower the jack completely. 


5-26 



Use the wrench to 
tighten the wheel 
nuts firmly in a 
crisscross sequence 
as shown. 


A CAUTION: 


Incorrect wheel nuts or improperly tightened 
wheel nuts can cause the wheel to become loose 
and even come off. This could lead to an accident. 
Be sure to use the correct wheel nuts. If you have 
to replace them, be sure to get new GM original 
equipment wheel nuts. 

Stop somewhere as soon as you can and have 
the nuts tightened with a torque wrench to 
100 lb-ft (140 N m). 


NOTICE: 


Improperly tightened wheel nuts can lead to 
brake pulsation and rotor damage. To avoid 
expensive brake repairs, evenly tighten the wheel 
nuts in the proper sequence and to the proper 
torque specification. 


Storing a Flat or Spare Tire and Tools 


A CAUTION: 


Storing a jack, a tire or other equipment in the 
passenger compartment of the vehicle could 
cause injury. In a sudden stop or collision, loose 
equipment could strike someone. Store all these 
in the proper place. 


NOTICE: 


Don’t use the existing hoist to store a tire with an 
aluminum wheel or it could damage the wheel. 
Secure the tire in the pickup bed. 


Follow this diagram to store the underbody-mounted spare. 


5-27 


J 



A. Wheel Wrench 

F. 

Valve Stem 

B. Hoist Assembly 


(Pointed Down) 

C. Retainer 

G. 

Lower 

D. Spring 

H. 

Raise 

E. Tire 




5-28 


1 . Pull the retainer through the wheel. 

2. Put the chisel end of the wheel wrench, on an angle, 
through the hole in the rear bumper and into the 
hoist shaft. 

3. Raise the tire fully against the underside of the 
vehicle. Continue turning the wheel wrench until the 
tire is secure and the cable is tight. The spare tire 
hoist cannot be overtightened. 



4. Make sure the tire is stored securely. Push, pull, and 
then try to rotate or turn the tire. If the tire moves, 
use the wheel wrench to tighten the cable. 

Return the jack, wheel wrench and wheel blocks to the 
proper location behind the seat. Secure the items. 



A. Wheel Wrench 

B. Bracket 

C. Jacking Instructions (Roll and place tag behind the 
bracket after the tools are installed.) 

D. Bolt Location 

E. Wheel Blocks 

F. Nut 

G. Rubber Band 

H. Jack Position 

Replace the jack cover, if you have one. 


5-29 



A. Bolt 

B. Cover (Standard Cab) 

C. Cover (Extended Cab) 


5-30 


Compact Spare Tire (If Equipped) 

Although the compact spare tire was fully inflated 
when your vehicle was new, it can lose air after a time. 
Check the inflation pressure regularly. It should be 
60 psi (420 kPa). 

After installing the compact spare on your vehicle, you 
should stop as soon as possible and make sure your spare 
tire is correctly inflated. The compact spare is made to 
perform well at speeds up to 65 mph (105 km/h) for 
distances up to 3,000 miles (5 000 km), so you can finish 
your trip and have your full-size tire repaired or replaced 
where you want. Of course, it’s best to replace your spare 
with a full-size tire as soon as you can. Your spare will last 
longer and be in good shape in case you need it again. 


NOTICE: 


When the compact spare is installed, don’t take 
your vehicle through an automatic car wash with 
guide rails. The compact spare can get caught on 
the rails. That can damage the tire and wheel, 
and maybe other parts of your vehicle. 


Don’t use your compact spare on other vehicles. 

And don’t mix your compact spare tire or wheel with 
other wheels or tires. They won’t fit. Keep your spare 
tire and its wheel together. 


NOTICE: 


Tire chains won’t fit your compact spare. Using 
them can damage your vehicle and can damage 
the chains too. Don’t use tire chains on your 
compact spare. 


If You’re Stuck: In Sand, Mud, 

Ice or Snow 

In order to free your vehicle when it is stuck, you will 
need to spin the wheels, but you don’t want to spin your 
wheels too fast. The method known as “rocking” can 
help you get out when you’re stuck, but you must 
use caution. 


A CAUTION: 


If you let your tires spin at high speed, they can 
explode, and you or others could be injured. And, 
the transmission or other parts of the vehicle can 
overheat. That could cause an engine 
compartment fire or other damage. When you’re 
stuck, spin the wheels as little as possible. Don’t 
spin the wheels above 35 mph (55 km/h) as shown 
on the speedometer. 


NOTICE: 


Spinning your wheels can destroy parts of your 
vehicle as well as the tires. If you spin the wheels 
too fast while shifting your transmission back 
and forth, you can destroy your transmission. 


For information about using tire chains on your vehicle, 
see “Tire Chains” in the Index. 


5-31 


Rocking Your Vehicle To Get It Out 

First, turn your steering wheel left and right. That will 
clear the area around your front wheels. If you have a 
four-wheel drive vehicle, shift into 4HI. Then shift back 
and forth between REVERSE (R) and a forward gear 
(or with a manual transmission, between FIRST (1) or 
SECOND (2) and REVERSE (R)), spinning the wheels 
as little as possible. Release the accelerator pedal while 
you shift, and press lightly on the accelerator pedal 
when the transmission is in gear. By slowly spinning 
your wheels in the forward and reverse directions, you 
will cause a rocking motion that may free your vehicle. 
If that doesn’t get you out after a few tries, you may 
need to be towed out. Or, you can use your recovery 
hooks if your vehicle has them. If you do need to be 
towed out, see “Towing Your Vehicle” in the Index. 


5-32 


Using the Recovery Hooks 



Your vehicle may be equipped with recovery hooks. 

The recovery hooks are provided at the front of your 
vehicle. You may need to use them if you’re stuck 
off-road and need to be pulled to some place where you 
can continue driving. 



A CAUTION: 


The recovery hooks, when used, are under a lot of 
force. Always pull the vehicle straight out. Never 
pull on the hooks at a sideways angle. The hooks 
could break off and you or others could be 
injured from the chain or cable snapping back. 


NOTICE: 


Never use the recovery hooks to tow the vehicle. 
Your vehicle could be damaged and it would not 
be covered by warranty. 


5-33 



Section 6 Service and Appearance Care 


Here you will find information about the care of your vehicle. This section begins with service and fuel information, 
and then it shows how to check important fluid and lubricant levels. There is also technical information about your 
vehicle, and a part devoted to its appearance care. 


6-2 

Service 

6-32 

Brakes 

6-3 

Fuel (Gasoline) 

6-36 

Battery 

6-5 

Fuel E-85 (85% Ethanol) 

6-37 

Bulb Replacement 

6-6 

Fuels in Foreign Countries 

6-43 

Windshield Wiper Blade Replacement 

6-7 

Filling Your Tank 

6-45 

Tires 

6-9 

Filling a Portable Fuel Container 

6-53 

Appearance Care 

6-10 

Checking Things Under the Hood 

6-54 

Cleaning the Inside of Your Vehicle 

6-13 

Engine Oil 

6-56 

Care of Safety Belts 

6-18 

Engine Air Cleaner/Filter 

6-57 

Cleaning the Outside of Your Vehicle 

6-19 

Automatic Transmission Fluid 

6-60 

GM Vehicle Care/ Appearance Materials Chart 

6-23 

Manual Transmission Fluid 

6-61 

Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) 

6-24 

Hydraulic Clutch 

6-61 

Service Parts Identification Fabel 

6-24 

Rear Axle 

6-62 

Electrical System 

6-25 

Four-Wheel Drive 

6-67 

Replacement Bulbs 

6-27 

Engine Coolant 

6-67 

Capacities and Specifications 

6-30 

Radiator Pressure Cap 

6-69 

Normal Maintenance Replacement Parts 

6-30 

Power Steering Fluid 



6-31 

Windshield Washer Fluid 




6-1 


Service 

Your dealer knows your vehicle best and wants you to 
be happy with it. We hope you’ll go to your dealer for 
all your service needs. You’ll get genuine GM parts and 
GM-trained and supported service people. 

We hope you’ll want to keep your GM vehicle all GM. 
Genuine GM parts have one of these marks: 



6-2 


Doing Your Own Service Work 

If you want to do some of your own service work, you’ll 
want to use the proper service manual. It tells you much 
more about how to service your vehicle than this manual 
can. To order the proper service manual, see “Service 
and Owner Publications” in the Index. 

Your vehicle has an air bag system. Before attempting to 
do your own service work, see “Servicing Your Air 
Bag-Equipped Vehicle” in the Index. 

You should keep a record with all parts receipts and list 
the mileage and the date of any service work you 
perform. See “Maintenance Record” in the Index. 


A CAUTION: 


You can be injured and your vehicle could be 
damaged if you try to do service work on a 
vehicle without knowing enough about it. 

• Be sure you have sufficient knowledge, 
experience, the proper replacement parts 
and tools before you attempt any vehicle 
maintenance task. 

• Be sure to use the proper nuts, bolts and 
other fasteners. “English” and “metric” 
fasteners can be easily confused. If you use 
the wrong fasteners, parts can later break 
or fall off. You could be hurt. 


Adding Equipment to the Outside of 
Your Vehicle 

Things you might add to the outside of your vehicle can 
affect the airflow around it. This may cause wind noise 
and affect windshield washer performance. Check with 
your dealer before adding equipment to the outside of 
your vehicle. 


Fuel (Gasoline) 

The 8th digit of your vehicle identification number 
(VIN) shows the code letter for your engine. You will 
find the VIN at the top left of your instrument panel. 
(See “Vehicle Identification Number” in the Index.) 

If you have the 2200 L4 (Code 5) engine, you may use 
either regular unleaded gasoline or ethanol fuel up to 
85% (E-85); also see “Fuel (85% Ethanol/E-85)” 
following. If you have the 2200 L4 (Code 4) engine or 
the 4.3L V6 engine, use only regular unleaded gasoline. 

Use regular unleaded gasoline rated at 87 octane or 
higher. It is recommended that the gasoline meet 
specifications which have been developed by the 
American Automobile Manufacturers Association 
(AAMA) and endorsed by the Canadian Motor Vehicle 
Manufacturers Association for better vehicle 
performance and engine protection. Gasolines meeting 
the AAMA specification could provide improved 
driveability and emission control system performance 
compared to other gasolines. 


6-3 


Be sure the posted octane is at least 87. If the octane is 
less than 87, you may get a heavy knocking noise when 
you drive. If it’s bad enough, it can damage your engine. 

If you’re using fuel rated at 87 octane or higher and you 
hear heavy knocking, your engine needs service. But 
don’t worry if you hear a little pinging noise when 
you’re accelerating or driving up a hill. That’s normal, 
and you don’t have to buy a higher octane fuel to get rid 
of pinging. It’s the heavy, constant knock that means 
you have a problem. 

If your vehicle is certified to meet California Emission 
Standards (indicated on the underhood emission control 
label), it is designed to operate on fuels that meet 
California specifications. If such fuels are not available 
in states adopting California emissions standards, your 
vehicle will operate satisfactorily on fuels meeting 
federal specifications, but emission control system 
performance may be affected. The malfunction indicator 
lamp on your instrument panel may turn on and/or your 
vehicle may fail a smog-check test. (See “Malfunction 
Indicator Lamp’’ in the Index.) If this occurs, return to 
your authorized GM dealer for diagnosis to determine 
the cause of failure. In the event it is determined that the 
cause of the condition is the type of fuels used, repairs 
may not be covered by your warranty. 


6-4 


Some gasolines that are not reformulated for low 
emissions may contain an octane-enhancing additive 
called methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl 
(MMT); ask your service station operator whether or not 
the fuel contains MMT. General Motors does not 
recommend the use of such gasolines. If fuels containing 
MMT are used, spark plug life may be reduced and your 
emission control system performance may be affected. 
The malfunction indicator lamp on your instrument 
panel may turn on. If this occurs, return to your 
authorized GM dealer for service. 

To provide cleaner air, all gasolines in the United States 
are now required to contain additives that will help 
prevent deposits from forming in your engine and fuel 
system, allowing your emission control system to 
function properly. Therefore, you should not have to add 
anything to the fuel. In addition, gasolines containing 
oxygenates, such as ethers and ethanol, and 
reformulated gasolines may be available in your area to 
contribute to clean air. General Motors recommends that 
you use these gasolines, particularly if they comply with 
the specifications described earlier. 


NOTICE: 


Your vehicle was not designed for fuel that 
contains methanol. Don’t use it. It can corrode 
metal parts in your fuel system and also damage 
plastic and rubber parts. That damage wouldn’t 
be covered under your warranty. 


Fuel E-85 (85% Ethanol) 

The 8th digit of your vehicle identification number 
(VIN) shows the code letter for your engine. You will 
find the VIN at the top left of your instrument panel. 
(See “Vehicle Identification Number” in the Index.) 

If you have the 2200 L4 (Code 5) engine, you may 
use either regular unleaded gasoline or ethanol fuel 
up to 85% (E-85); also see “Fuel (Gasoline)” listed 
previously. If you have the 2200 L4 (Code 4) engine 
or the 4.3L V6 engine use only regular gasoline. 

Only vehicles with the 2200 L4 (Code 5) engine may 
use 85% ethanol fuel (E-85). 


Most service stations will not have an 85% ethanol fuel 
(E-85) pump available. Those stations that do have E-85 
should have a label indicating minimum ethanol content. 
Do not use the fuel if the minimum ethanol content is 
greater than 85%. Your vehicle may not operate 
properly if the ethanol content is greater than 85%. 

At a minimum, E-85 should meet ASTM 
D 5798 specifications. 

To insure quick starts in the wintertime, the E-85 fuel 
must be formulated properly for your climate according 
to ASTM specification D 5798. If you have trouble 
starting on E-85, it may be because your E-85 fuel 
is not properly formulated for your climate. If this 
happens, switching to gasoline or adding gasoline to 
your fuel tank may improve starting. Mixing gasoline 
and E-85 in your fuel tank will not cause any 
problems with your vehicle. For good starting and 
heater efficiency below 32 °F (0°C), the fuel mix 
in the fuel tank should contain a maximum of 
50% ethanol. 


6-5 


E-85 has less energy per gallon than gasoline, so you’ll 
need to refill your fuel tank more often when using E-85 
than when you’re using gasoline. Use regular gasoline 
when pulling a trailer. For payload capacity with ethanol 
fuel see “Loading Your Vehicle” in the Index. 


NOTICE: 


Some additives are not compatible with E-85 fuel 
and may harm your fuel system. Damage caused 
by additives may not be covered by your new 
vehicle warranty. Don’t use additives 
with E-85 fuel. 


NOTICE: 


Your vehicle was not designed for fuel that 
contains methanol. Don’t use it. It can corrode 
metal parts in your fuel system and also damage 
plastic and rubber parts. That damage wouldn’t 
be covered under your warranty. 


6-6 


Fuels in Foreign Countries 

If you plan on driving in another country outside the 
United States or Canada, the proper fuel may be hard to 
find. Never use leaded gasoline or any other fuel not 
recommended in the previous text on fuel. Costly repairs 
caused by use of improper fuel wouldn’t be covered by 
your warranty. 

To check on fuel availability, ask an auto club, or 
contact a major oil company that does business in the 
country where you’ll be driving. 

You can also write us at the following address for 
advice. Just tell us where you’re going and give your 
Vehicle Identification Number (VIN). 

General Motors Overseas Distribution Corporation 
1908 Colonel Sam Drive 
Oshawa, Ontario L1H 8P7 


Filling Your Tank 


A CAUTION: 


Fuel vapor is highly flammable. It burns 
violently, and that can cause very bad injuries. 
Don’t smoke if you’re near fuel or refueling your 
vehicle. Keep sparks, flames and smoking 
materials away from fuel. 



The fuel cap is behind a hinged door on the driver’s side 
of your vehicle. 


6-7 



To remove the cap, turn it slowly to the left 
(counterclockwise). The cap has a spring in it; if you let 
go of the cap too soon, it will spring back to the right. 


6-8 


A CAUTION: 


If you get fuel on yourself and then something 
ignites it, you could be badly burned. Fuel can 
spray out on you if you open the fuel filler cap too 
quickly. This spray can happen if your tank is 
nearly full, and is more likely in hot weather. 
Open the fuel filler cap slowly and wait for any 
“hiss” noise to stop. Then unscrew the cap 
all the way. 


Be careful not to spill fuel. Clean fuel from painted 
surfaces as soon as possible. See “Cleaning the Outside 
of Your Vehicle” in the Index. 


When you put the cap back on, turn it to the right 
(clockwise) until you hear a clicking sound. Make sure 
you fully install the cap. The diagnostic system can 
determine if the fuel cap has been left off or improperly 
installed. This would allow fuel to evaporate into the 
atmosphere. See “Malfunction Indicator Lamp” in 
the Index. 


NOTICE: 


If you need a new cap, be sure to get the right 
type. Your dealer can get one for you. If you get 
the wrong type, it may not fit properly. This may 
cause your malfunction indicator lamp to light 
and your fuel tank and emissions system may be 
damaged. See “Malfunction Indicator Lamp” in 
the Index. 


Filling a Portable Fuel Container 


A CAUTION: 


Never fill a portable fuel container while it is in 
your vehicle. Static electricity discharge from the 
container can ignite the gasoline vapor. You can 
be badly burned and your vehicle damaged if this 
occurs. To help avoid injury to you and others: 

• Dispense gasoline only into 
approved containers. 

• Do not fill a container while it is inside a 
vehicle, in a vehicle’s trunk, pickup bed or 
on any surface other than the ground. 

• Bring the fill nozzle in contact with the 
inside of the fill opening before operating 
the nozzle. Contact should be maintained 
until the filling is complete. 

• Don’t smoke while pumping gasoline. 


6-9 


Checking Things Under the Hood 


A CAUTION: 


Things that burn can get on hot engine parts and 
start a fire. These include liquids like fuel, oil, 
coolant, brake fluid, windshield washer and other 
fluids, and plastic or rubber. You or others could 
be burned. Be careful not to drop or spill things 
that will burn onto a hot engine. 



To open the hood, first pull 
the handle inside the vehicle 
on the lower left side of the 
instrument panel. 


6-10 



Lift the hood, release the hood prop from its retainer and 
put the hood prop into the slot in the hood. 



When you lift the hood, you’ll see these items on the 2200 L4 engine: 



A. Battery 

B. Coolant Recovery Tank 

C. Automatic Transmission Dipstick 

D. Engine Oil Fill Cap and Dipstick 


E. Power Steering Reservoir 

F. Brake Master Cylinder 

G. Engine Air Cleaner/Filter 

H. Engine Compartment Fuse Block 

I. Windshield Washer Fluid Reservoir 


6-11 


When you lift the hood, you’ll see these items on the “VORTEC” 4300 V6 engine: 



A. Battery 

B. Coolant Recovery Tank 

C. Engine Oil Dipstick 

D. Engine Oil Fill 

E. Automatic Transmission Dipstick 


F. Power Steering Reservoir 

G. Brake Master Cylinder 

H. Engine Air Cleaner/Filter 

I. Engine Compartment Fuse Block 

J. Windshield Washer Fluid Reservoir 


6-12 


Before closing the hood, be sure all the filler caps are on 
properly. Then lift the hood to relieve pressure on the 
hood prop. 

Remove the hood prop from the slot in the hood and 
return the prop to its retainer. 

Then pull the hood down firmly to close. It will latch 
when dropped from 10 to 12 inches (25 to 30 cm) 
without pressing on the hood. 

Engine Oil 

Checking Engine Oil 

It’s a good idea to check your engine oil every time you 
get fuel. In order to get an accurate reading, the oil must 
be warm and the vehicle must be on level ground. 

The oil dipstick on the 
“VORTEC” 4300 V6 
engine is a yellow ring. 




The oil dipstick on the 
2200 L4 engine is under 
the fill cap. 


Turn off the engine and give the oil several minutes to 
drain back into the oil pan. If you don’t, the oil dipstick 
might not show the actual level. 


6-13 




Pull out the dipstick and clean it with a paper towel or 
cloth, then push it back in all the way. Remove it again, 
keeping the tip down, and check the level. 



6-14 


When to Add Engine Oil 

If the oil is at or below the ADD line, then you’ll need 
to add at least one quart of oil. But you must use the 
right kind. This part explains what kind of oil to use. For 
crankcase capacity, see “Capacities and Specifications” 
in the Index. 


NOTICE: 


Don’t add too much oil. If your engine has so 
much oil that the oil level gets above the 
cross-hatched area that shows the proper 
operating range, your engine could be damaged. 


Be sure to fill it enough to put the level somewhere in 
the proper operating range. Push the dipstick all the way 
back in when you’re through. 


What Kind of Engine Oil to Use 

Oils recommended for your vehicle can be identified by 
looking for the starburst symbol. 

This symbol indicates that the oil has been certified by 
the American Petroleum Institute (API). Do not use any 
oil which does not carry this starburst symbol. 

If you change your own oil, 
be sure you use oil that has 
the starburst symbol on the 
front of the oil container. If 
you have your oil changed 
for you, be sure the oil put 
into your engine is 
American Petroleum 
Institute certified for 
gasoline engines. 


You should also use the proper viscosity oil for your 
vehicle, as shown in the following chart: 



RECOMMENDED SAE VISCOSITY GRADE ENGINE OILS 


FOR BEST FUEL ECONOMY AND COLD STARTING, SELECT THE LOWEST 
SAE VISCOSITY GRADE OIL FOR THE EXPECTED TEMPERATURE RANGE. 



COLD 

WEATHER 


DO NOT USE SAE 20W - 50 OR ANY OTHER 
GRADE OIL NOT RECOMMENDED 


6-15 


As shown in the chart, SAE 5W-30 is best for your 
vehicle. However, you can use SAE 10W-30 if it’s going 
to be 0°F (-18°C) or above. These numbers on an oil 
container show its viscosity, or thickness. Do not use 
other viscosity oils, such as SAE 20W-50. 


NOTICE: 


Use only engine oil with the American Petroleum 
Institute Certified For Gasoline Engines 
starburst symbol. Failure to use the 
recommended oil can result in engine damage not 
covered by your warranty. 


(R) 

GM Goodwrench oil meets all the requirements for 
your vehicle. 

If you are in an area where the temperature falls below 
-20°F (-29°C), consider using either an SAE 5W-30 
synthetic oil or an SAE 0W-30 oil. Both will provide 
easier cold starting and better protection for your engine 
at extremely low temperatures. 


6-16 


Engine Oil Additives 

Don’t add anything to your oil. The recommended oils 

with the starburst symbol are all you will need for good 

performance and engine protection. 

When to Change Engine Oil 

If any one of these is true for you, use the short trip/city 

maintenance schedule: 

• Most trips are less than 5 to 10 miles (8 to 16 km). 
This is particularly important when outside 
temperatures are below freezing. 

• Most trips include extensive idling (such as frequent 
driving in stop-and-go traffic). 

• Your vehicle has a 2200 L4 (Code 5) flexible fuel 
engine and you have used E-85 ethanol fuel. 

• You operate your vehicle in dusty areas or 
off-road frequently. 

• You frequently tow a trailer. 

• The vehicle is used for delivery service, police, taxi 
or other commercial application. 


Driving under these conditions causes engine oil to 
break down sooner. If any one of these is true for your 
vehicle, then you need to change your oil and filter 
every 3,000 miles (5 000 km) or 3 months -- whichever 
occurs first. 

If none of them is true, use the long trip/highway 
maintenance schedule. Change the oil and filter every 
7,500 miles (12 500 km) or 12 months -- whichever 
occurs first. Driving a vehicle with a fully warmed 
engine under highway conditions causes engine oil to 
break down slower. 

Remote Oil Filter (Four-Wheel Drive) 

The access door for the 
remote oil filter is in the 
steering linkage shield 
assembly located under the 
radiator support. Twist the 
screw to unlock or lock the 
door. Make sure if you open 
the door, it is securely 
closed when you 
are finished. 



What to Do with Used Oil 


Did you know that used engine oil contains certain 
elements that may be unhealthy for your skin and could 
even cause cancer? Don’t let used oil stay on your skin 
for very long. Clean your skin and nails with soap and 
water, or a good hand cleaner. Wash or properly throw 
away clothing or rags containing used engine oil. 

(See the manufacturer’s warnings about the use and 
disposal of oil products.) 

Used oil can be a real threat to the environment. If you 
change your own oil, be sure to drain all free-flowing oil 
from the filter before disposal. Don’t ever dispose of oil 
by putting it in the trash, pouring it on the ground, into 
sewers, or into streams or bodies of water. Instead, 
recycle it by taking it to a place that collects used oil. 

If you have a problem properly disposing of your used 
oil, ask your dealer, a service station or a local recycling 
center for help. 


6-17 




Engine Air Cleaner/Filter 


“VORTEC” 4300 V6 Engine 


6-18 



2200 L4 Engine 

1 . To remove either air cleaner, remove the fasteners 
that hold the cover on. 

2. Remove the cover and lift out the air filter. 

3. Insert a new air filter, then replace the air cleaner cover. 

4. Tighten the fasteners to hold the cover in place. 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine when to 
replace the air filter. See “Scheduled Maintenance 
Services” in the Index. 



A CAUTION: 


Operating the engine with the air cleaner/filter 
off can cause you or others to be burned. The air 
cleaner not only cleans the air, it stops flame if 
the engine backfires. If it isn’t there, and the 
engine backfires, you could be burned. Don’t 
drive with it off, and be careful working on the 
engine with the air cleaner/filter off. 


NOTICE: 


If the air cleaner/filter is off, a backfire can cause 
a damaging engine fire. And, dirt can easily get 
into your engine, which will damage it. 

Always have the air cleaner/filter in place 
when you’re driving. 


Automatic Transmission Fluid 

When to Check and Change 

A good time to check your automatic transmission fluid 
level is when the engine oil is changed. 

Change both the fluid and filter every 15,000 miles 
(25 000 km) if the vehicle is mainly driven under one or 
more of these conditions: 

• In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature 
regularly reaches 90 °F (32 °C) or higher. 

• In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

• When doing frequent trailer towing. 

• Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these 
conditions, change the fluid and filter every 
50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

See “Scheduled Maintenance Services” in the Index. 


6-19 


How to Check 


Because this operation can be a little difficult, you may choose 
to have this done at the dealership service department. 

If you do it yourself, be sure to follow all the instructions 
here, or you could get a false reading on the dipstick. 


NOTICE: 


Too much or too little fluid can damage your 
transmission. Too much can mean that some of 
the fluid could come out and fall on hot engine 
parts or exhaust system parts, starting a fire. Be 
sure to get an accurate reading if you check your 
transmission fluid. 


Wait at least 30 minutes before checking the 
transmission fluid level if you have been driving: 

• When outside temperatures are above 90°F (32°C). 

• At high speed for quite a while. 


6-20 


• In heavy traffic — especially in hot weather. 

• While pulling a trailer. 

To get the right reading, the fluid should be at normal 
operating temperature, which is 180°F to 200 °F 
(82°C to 93°C). 

Get the vehicle warmed up by driving about 15 miles 
(24 km) when outside temperatures are above 50 °F 
(10°C). If it’s colder than 50 °F (10°C), drive the 
vehicle in THIRD (3) until the engine temperature gage 
moves and then remains steady for 10 minutes. 

Then follow the hot check procedures. 

Checking Transmission Fluid Cold 

A cold check is made after the vehicle has been sitting 
for eight hours or more with the engine off and is used 
only as a reference. Let the engine run at idle for five 
minutes if outside temperatures are 50°F (10°C) or 
more. If it’s colder than 50°F (10°C), you may have to 
idle the engine longer. Should the fluid level be low 
during a cold check, you must perform a hot check 
before adding fluid. This will give you a more accurate 
reading of the fluid level. 


Checking the Fluid Level 

Prepare your vehicle as follows: 

• Park your vehicle on a level place. Keep the 
engine running. 

• With the parking brake applied, place the shift lever 
in PARK (P). 

• With your foot on the brake pedal, move the shift 
lever through each gear range, pausing for about 
three seconds in each range. Then, position the shift 
lever in PARK (P). 

• Let the engine run at idle for three minutes or more. 


Then, without shutting off the engine, follow these steps: 



1. The transmission dipstick is located near the center 
of the engine compartment. Flip the handle up and 
then pull out the dipstick and wipe it with a clean rag 
or paper towel. 

2. Push it back in all the way, wait three seconds and 
then pull it back out again. 


6-21 





3. Check both sides of the dipstick, and read the lower 
level. The fluid level must be in the COLD area, 
below the cross-hatched area, for a cold check or in 
the HOT area or cross-hatched area for a hot check. 

4. If the fluid level is in the acceptable range, push the 
dipstick back in all the way; then flip the handle 
down to lock the dipstick in place. 


6-22 


How to Add Fluid 


Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine what 
kind of transmission fluid to use. See “Recommended 
Fluids and Lubricants” in the Index. 

Add fluid only after checking the transmission fluid 
while it is hot. (A cold check is used only as a 
reference.) If the fluid level is low, add only enough of 
the proper fluid to bring the level up to the HOT area for 
a hot check. It doesn’t take much fluid, generally less 
than one pint (0.5 L). Don ’t overfill. 


NOTICE: 


We recommend you use only fluid labeled 
DEXRON ®-Hr, because fluid with that label is 
made especially for your automatic transmission. 
Damage caused by fluid other than DEXRON®-III 
is not covered by your new vehicle warranty. 


• After adding fluid, recheck the fluid level as 
described under “How to Check.” 

• When the correct fluid level is obtained, push the 
dipstick back in all the way; then flip the handle 
down to lock the dipstick in place. 


Manual Transmission Fluid 

When to Check 


A good time to have it checked is when the engine oil is 
changed. However, the fluid in your manual 
transmission doesn’t require changing. 

How to Check 

Because this operation can be a little difficult, you 
may choose to have this done at your GM dealership 
service department. 

If you do it yourself, be sure to follow all the 
instructions here, or you could get a false reading. 


NOTICE: 


Too much or too little fluid can damage your 
transmission. Too much can mean that some of 
the fluid could come out and fall on hot engine 
parts or exhaust system parts, starting a fire. Be 
sure to get an accurate reading if you check your 
transmission fluid. 


Check the fluid level only when your engine is off, the 
vehicle is parked on a level place and the transmission is cool 
enough for you to rest your fingers on the transmission case. 

Then, follow these steps: 



1. Remove the filler plug. 

2. Check that the lubricant level is up to the bottom of 
the filler plug hole. 

3. If the fluid level is good, install the plug and be sure 
it is fully seated. If the fluid level is low, add more 
fluid as described in the next steps. 


6-23 



How to Add Fluid 


Here’s how to add fluid. Refer to the Maintenance 
Schedule to determine what kind of fluid to use. See 
“Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” in the Index. 

1. Remove the filler plug. 

2. Add fluid at the filler plug hole. Add only enough 
fluid to bring the fluid level up to the bottom of the 
filler plug hole. 

3. Install the filler plug. Be sure the plug is fully seated. 

Hydraulic Clutch 

The hydraulic clutch linkage in your vehicle is 
self-adjusting. The clutch master cylinder reservoir is 
filled with hydraulic clutch fluid. 

It is not necessary to regularly check clutch fluid unless 
you suspect there is a leak in the system. Adding fluid 
won’t correct a leak. 

A fluid loss in this system could indicate a problem. 
Have the system inspected and repaired. 


6-24 


When to Check and What to Use 


Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine how 
often you should check the fluid level in your clutch 
master cylinder reservoir and for the proper fluid. See 
“Owner Checks and Services” and “Recommended 
Fluids and Lubricants” in the Index. 

How to Check and Add Fluid 

The proper fluid should be added if the level does not 
reach the bottom of the diaphragm when it’s in place in 
the reservoir. See the instructions in the reservoir cap. 

Rear Axle 

When to Check and Change Lubricant 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine how 
often to check the lubricant and when to change it. 

See “Scheduled Maintenance Services” in the Index. 


How to Check Lubricant 



If the level is below the bottom of the filler plug hole, 
you’ll need to add some lubricant. Add enough lubricant 
to raise the level to the bottom of the filler plug hole. 

What to Use 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine what 
kind of lubricant to use. See “Recommended Fluids and 
Lubricants” in the Index. 


Four-Wheel Drive 

Most lubricant checks in this section also apply to 
four-wheel-drive vehicles. However, they have 
two additional systems that need lubrication. 

Transfer Case 

When to Check Lubricant 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine how 
often to check the lubricant. See “Periodic Maintenance 
Inspections” in the Index. 


6-25 



How to Check Lubricant 



If the level is below the bottom of the filler plug hole, 
you’ll need to add some lubricant. Add enough lubricant 
to raise the level to the bottom of the filler plug hole. 

Use care not to overtighten plug. 

What to Use 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine what 
kind of lubricant to use. See “Recommended Fluids and 
Lubricants” in the Index. 


6-26 


Front Axle 

When to Check and Change Lubricant 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine how 
often to check the lubricant and when to change it. 
See “Scheduled Maintenance Services” in the Index. 

How to Check Lubricant 



If the level is below the bottom of the filler plug hole, 
you may need to add some lubricant. 


When the differential is cold, add enough lubricant to raise 
the level to 1/2 inch (12 mm) below the filler plug hole. 

When the differential is at operating temperature 
(warm), add enough lubricant to raise the level to the 
bottom of the filler plug hole. 

What to Use 

Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine what 
kind of lubricant to use. See “Recommended Fluids and 
Lubricants” in the Index. 

Engine Coolant 

The cooling system in your vehicle is filled with 
DEX-COOL® engine coolant. This coolant is designed 
to remain in your vehicle for 5 years or 150,000 miles 
(240 000 km), whichever occurs first, if you add only 
DEX-COOL® extended life coolant. 

The following explains your cooling system and how to add 
coolant when it is low. If you have a problem with engine 
overheating, see “Engine Overheating” in the Index. 


A 50/50 mixture of clean, drinkable water and 
DEX-COOL® coolant will: 

• Give freezing protection down to -34°F (-37°C). 

• Give boiling protection upto265°F(129°C). 

• Protect against rust and corrosion. 

• Help keep the proper engine temperature. 

• Let the warning lights and gages work as they should. 


NOTICE: 


When adding coolant, it is important that you 
use only DEX-COOL® (silicate-free) coolant. 
If coolant other than DEX-COOL is added to 
the system, premature engine, heater core or 
radiator corrosion may result. In addition, the 
engine coolant will require change sooner — at 
30,000 miles (50 000 km) or 24 months, 
whichever occurs first. Damage caused by the 
use of coolant other than DEX-COOL® is not 
covered by your new vehicle warranty. 


6-27 


What to Use 


Use a mixture of one-half clean, drinkable water and 

(R) 

one-half DEX-COOL coolant which won't damage 
aluminum parts. If you use this coolant mixture, you 
don’t need to add anything else. 


A CAUTION: 


Adding only plain water to your cooling system 
can be dangerous. Plain water, or some other 
liquid like alcohol, can boil before the proper 
coolant mixture will. Your vehicle’s coolant 
warning system is set for the proper coolant 
mixture. With plain water or the wrong mixture, 
your engine could get too hot but you wouldn’t 
get the overheat warning. Your engine could 
catch fire and you or others could be burned. 
Use a 50/50 mixture of clean, drinkable water 
and DEX-COOL® coolant. 


6-28 


NOTICE: 


If you use an improper coolant mixture, your 
engine could overheat and be badly damaged. 
The repair cost wouldn’t be covered by your 
warranty. Too much water in the mixture can 
freeze and crack the engine, radiator, heater core 
and other parts. 


If you have to add coolant more than four times a year, 
have your dealer check your cooling system. 


NOTICE: 


If you use the proper coolant, you don’t have to 
add extra inhibitors or additives which claim to 
improve the system. These can be harmful. 


Checking Coolant 



The vehicle must be on a level surface. When your 
engine is cold, the coolant level should be at ADD, or a 
little higher. When your engine is warm, the level shouk 
be up to FULL HOT, or a little higher. 

Adding Coolant 

(R) 

If you need more coolant, add the proper DEX-COOL 
coolant mixture at the coolant recovery tank. 


A CAUTION: 


Turning the radiator pressure cap when the engine 
and radiator are hot can allow steam and scalding 
liquids to blow out and burn you badly. With the 
coolant recovery tank, you will almost never have 
to add coolant at the radiator. Never turn the 
radiator pressure cap — even a little — when the 
engine and radiator are hot. 


Add coolant mixture at the recovery tank, but be careful 
not to spill it. 


A CAUTION: 


You can be burned if you spill coolant on hot 
engine parts. Coolant contains ethylene glycol, 
and it will burn if the engine parts are hot 
enough. Don’t spill coolant on a hot engine. 


Occasionally check the coolant level in the radiator. For 
information on how to add coolant to the radiator, see 
“Cooling System” in the Index. 


6-29 


Radiator Pressure Cap 



NOTICE: 


Your radiator cap is a 15 psi (105 kPa) 
pressure-type cap and must be tightly installed to 
prevent coolant loss and possible engine damage 
from overheating. Be sure the arrows on the cap 
line up with the overflow tube on the radiator 
filler neck. 


6-30 


Power Steering Fluid 



When to Check Power Steering Fluid 

It is not necessary to regularly check power steering 
fluid unless you suspect there is a leak in the system or 
you hear an unusual noise. A fluid loss in this system 
could indicate a problem. Have the system inspected 
and repaired. 




How to Check Power Steering Fluid 

Turn the key off, let the engine compartment cool down, 
wipe the cap and the top of the reservoir clean, then 
unscrew the cap and wipe the dipstick with a clean rag. 
Replace the cap and completely tighten it. Then remove 
the cap again and look at the fluid level on the dipstick. 

For the VORTEC 4300 V6 engine, the level should be 
between the ADD and FULL marks. For the 2200 L4 engine, 
the fluid level should be at the C mark. If necessary, add only 
enough fluid to bring the level up to the proper range. 

What to Use 

To determine what kind of fluid to use, see 
“Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” in the Index. 
Always use the proper fluid. Failure to use the proper 
fluid can cause leaks and damage hoses and seals. 

Windshield Washer Fluid 

What to Use 

When you need windshield washer fluid, be sure to read 
the manufacturer’s instructions before use. If you will be 
operating your vehicle in an area where the temperature 
may fall below freezing, use a fluid that has sufficient 
protection against freezing. 


Adding Washer Fluid 



Open the cap labeled WASHER FLUID ONLY with 
the washer symbol on it. Add washer fluid until the 
tank is full. 


6-31 



NOTICE: 


• When using concentrated washer fluid, 
follow the manufacturer’s instructions for 
adding water. 

• Don’t mix water with ready-to-use washer 
fluid. Water can cause the solution to freeze 
and damage your washer fluid tank and 
other parts of the washer system. Also, 
water doesn’t clean as well as washer fluid. 

• Fill your washer fluid tank only 
three-quarters full when it’s very cold. 

This allows for expansion if freezing occurs, 
which could damage the tank if it is 
completely full. 

• Don’t use engine coolant (antifreeze) in 
your windshield washer. It can damage 
your washer system and paint. 


6-32 


Brakes 

Brake Fluid 



Your brake master cylinder reservoir is filled with 
DOT-3 brake fluid. 

There are only two reasons why the brake fluid level in the 
reservoir might go down. The first is that the brake fluid 
goes down to an acceptable level during normal brake 
lining wear. When new linings are put in, the fluid level 
goes back up. The other reason is that fluid is leaking out 
of the brake system. If it is, you should have your brake 
system fixed, since a leak means that sooner or later your 
brakes won’t work well, or won’t work at all. 



So, it isn’t a good idea to “top off’ your brake fluid. 
Adding brake fluid won’t correct a leak. If you add fluid 
when your linings are worn, then you’ll have too much 
fluid when you get new brake linings. You should add 
(or remove) brake fluid, as necessary, only when work is 
done on the brake hydraulic system. 


A CAUTION: 


If you have too much brake fluid, it can spill on 
the engine. The fluid will burn if the engine is 
hot enough. You or others could be burned, and 
your vehicle could be damaged. Add brake fluid 
only when work is done on the brake 
hydraulic system. 


Refer to the Maintenance Schedule to determine when to 
check your brake fluid. See “Periodic Maintenance 
Inspections” in the Index. 


Checking Brake Fluid 



You can check the brake fluid without taking off the cap. 

Just look at the brake fluid reservoir. The fluid level 
should be above MIN. If it isn’t, have your brake system 
checked to see if there is a leak. 

After work is done on the brake hydraulic system, make 
sure the level is above the MIN but not over the 
MAX mark. 


6-33 



What to Add 


When you do need brake fluid, use only DOT-3 brake 
fluid. Refer to “Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” 
in the Index. Use new brake fluid from a sealed 
container only. 

Always clean the brake fluid reservoir cap and the area 
around the cap before removing it. This will help keep 
dirt from entering the reservoir. 


A CAUTION: 


With the wrong kind of fluid in your brake 
system, your brakes may not work well, or they 
may not even work at all. This could cause a 
crash. Always use the proper brake fluid. 


6-34 


NOTICE: 


• Using the wrong fluid can badly damage 
brake system parts. For example, just a few 
drops of mineral-based oil, such as engine 
oil, in your brake system can damage brake 
system parts so badly that they’ll have to be 
replaced. Don’t let someone put in the 
wrong kind of fluid. 

• If you spill brake fluid on your vehicle’s 
painted surfaces, the paint finish can be 
damaged. Be careful not to spill brake fluid on 
your vehicle. If you do, wash it off immediately. 
See “Appearance Care” in the Index. 


Brake Wear 

If you have four-wheel drive, your vehicle has 
four-wheel disc brakes. If not, your vehicle has front 
disc brakes and rear drum brakes. 

Disc brake pads have built-in wear indicators that make a 
high-pitched warning sound when the brake pads are worn 
and new pads are needed. The sound may come and go or 
be heard all the time your vehicle is moving (except when 
you are pushing on the brake pedal firmly). 


A CAUTION: 


The brake wear warning sound means that soon 
your brakes won’t work well. That could lead to 
an accident. When you hear the brake wear 
warning sound, have your vehicle serviced. 


NOTICE: 


Continuing to drive with worn-out brake pads 
could result in costly brake repair. 


Some driving conditions or climates may cause a brake 
squeal when the brakes are first applied or lightly 
applied. This does not mean something is wrong with 
your brakes. 

Properly torqued wheel nuts are necessary to help 
prevent brake pulsation. When tires are rotated, inspect 
brake pads for wear and evenly torque wheel nuts in the 
proper sequence to GM specifications. 


If you have rear drum brakes, they don’t have wear 
indicators, but if you ever hear a rear brake rubbing 
noise, have the rear brake linings inspected immediately. 
Also, the rear brake drums should be removed and 
inspected each time the tires are removed for rotation or 
changing. When you have the front brake pads replaced, 
have the rear brakes inspected, too. 

Brake linings should always be replaced as complete 
axle sets. 

See “Brake System Inspection” in Section 7 of this 
manual under Part C “Periodic Maintenance 
Inspections.” 

Brake Pedal Travel 

See your dealer if the brake pedal does not return to 
normal height, or if there is a rapid increase in pedal 
travel. This could be a sign of brake trouble. 

Brake Adjustment 

Every time you make a brake stop, your disc brakes 
adjust for wear. 

If you don’t have four-wheel drive and your brake pedal 
goes down farther than normal, your rear drum brakes 
may need adjustment. Adjust them by backing up and 
firmly applying the brakes a few times. 


6-35 


Replacing Brake System Parts 

The braking system on a vehicle is complex. Its many 
parts have to be of top quality and work well together if 
the vehicle is to have really good braking. Your vehicle 
was designed and tested with top-quality GM brake parts. 
When you replace parts of your braking system — for 
example, when your brake linings wear down and you 
have to have new ones put in — be sure you get new 
approved GM replacement parts. If you don’t, your brakes 
may no longer work properly. For example, if someone 
puts in brake linings that are wrong for your vehicle, the 
balance between your front and rear brakes can 
change — for the worse. The braking performance 
you’ve come to expect can change in many other ways if 
someone puts in the wrong replacement brake parts. 

Battery 

Your new vehicle comes with a maintenance free 
ACDelco® battery. When it’s time for a new battery, get 
one that has the replacement number shown on the original 
battery’s label. We recommend an ACDelco battery. 


6-36 


Vehicle Storage 

If you’re not going to drive your vehicle for 25 days or 
more, remove the black, negative (-) cable from the 
battery. This will help keep your battery from 
running down. 


A CAUTION: 


Batteries have acid that can burn you and gas 
that can explode. You can be badly hurt if you 
aren’t careful. See “Jump Starting” in the Index 
for tips on working around a battery without 
getting hurt. 


Contact your dealer to learn how to prepare your vehicle 
for longer storage periods. 

Also, for your audio system, see “Theft-Deterrent 
Feature” in the Index. 


Bulb Replacement 

Before you replace any bulbs, be sure that all the lamps 
are off and the engine isn’t running. See “Replacement 
Bulbs” in the Index. 

For any bulb changing procedure not listed in this 
section, contact your GM dealer’s service department. 

Halogen Bulbs 


A CAUTION: 


Halogen bulbs have pressurized gas inside and 
can burst if you drop or scratch the bulb. You or 
others could be injured. Be sure to read and 
follow the instructions on the bulb package. 


Headlamps 

One-Piece Composite Headlamp System 
1. Open the hood. 



2. Remove the black retainer clips by lifting up. 

3. Pull the headlamp assembly out. 

4. Unplug the electrical connector. 


6-37 




5. Turn the bulb assembly counterclockwise to 
remove it. 

6. Put the new bulb assembly into the headlamp 
assembly and turn it clockwise until it is tight. 

7. Plug in the electrical connector. 

8. Put the headlamp assembly back into the vehicle. 
Install the two retaining clips. 


6-38 


Two-Piece Composite Headlamp System 

1 . Open the hood. 



2. Remove the black retainer clips by lifting up. 

3. Pull the headlamp lens assembly out. 





4. Turn the bulb assembly counterclockwise to 
remove it. 

5. Put the new bulb assembly into the headlamp 
assembly and turn it clockwise until it is tight. 

6. Plug in the electrical connector. 

7. Put the headlamp lens assembly back into the 
vehicle. Install the two retaining clips. 


One-Piece Front Turn Signal 
Lamp Assembly 

1. Remove the headlamp assembly as shown under 
“One-Piece Composite Headlamp System” earlier in 
this section. 


2. Twist the bulb socket 
counterclockwise to 
remove it from the 
headlamp assembly. 


3. Pull the bulb straight out to remove it from 
the socket. 

4. Push the new bulb into the socket until it snaps 
into place. 

5. Put the bulb socket into the lamp assembly and twist 
it clockwise until it is tight. 

6. Put the headlamp assembly back into the vehicle. 
Install the two retaining clips. 



6-39 



Two-Piece Front Turn Signal 
Lamp Assembly 

1 . Remove the headlamp assembly as shown under 
“Two-Piece Composite Headlamp System” earlier in 
this section. 



Locate the locking tabs 
on the assembly. 
Squeeze the tabs 
together and push that 
end of the assembly out 
while holding the tabs. 
The assembly will 
swing out. 


3. Unplug the electrical connector. 


6-40 



4. Turn the harness bulb socket counterclockwise to 
remove it. Pull the bulb straight out to remove it 
from the socket. 

5. Push the new bulb into the socket until it snaps 
into place. 

6. Put the socket into the lamp assembly and turn it 
clockwise until it is tight. 

7. To replace the assembly, snap the outboard end of 
the lamp assembly back into the vehicle. Then swing 
the assembly in and snap it into place. 

8. Replace the headlamp assembly. Install the two 
retaining clips. 



Center High-Mounted Stoplamp 



1. Remove the lens retaining screws. 

2. Remove the lens. 


3. Remove the bulb. 



4. Install a new bulb. 

5. Replace the lens. Install and tighten the screws. 

If equipment such as a cap or camper is installed on 
your vehicle, a center high-mounted stoplamp feed wire 
is provided along the driver’s side rear frame. This wire 
should be used to install a center high-mounted 
stoplamp in the cap or camper. 


6-41 



Taillamps 

1. Open the tailgate. 



2. Remove the screws from 
the lamp assembly near 
the tailgate latch. 


6-42 


3. Pull the assembly away from the pickup side panel. 

4. Turn the socket counterclockwise to remove it. 

Push the tab in while you turn the socket. 

5. Pull the bulb out. 

6. Push the new bulb into the socket. 

7. Put the socket into the assembly and turn the socket 
clockwise until it locks in place. 

8. Replace the assembly. Install and tighten the screws. 

9. Close the tailgate. 


Windshield Wiper Blade Replacement 

Windshield wiper blades should be inspected at least 
twice a year for wear and cracking. See “Wiper Blade 
Check” in Section 7 in this manual under Part B “Owner 
Checks and Services” for more information. 


NOTICE: 


Use care when removing or installing a blade 
assembly. Accidental bumping can cause the arm 
to fall back and strike the windshield. 


1. To remove the old wiper blades, lift the wiper arm 
until it locks into a vertical position. 



A. 

B. 

C. 

2 . 


Blade Assembly 
Arm Assembly 
Locking Tab 


D. Blade Pivot 

E. Hook Slot 

F. Arm Hook 


Press down on the blade assembly pivot locking tab. 
Pull down on the blade assembly to release it from 
the wiper arm hook. 


6-43 


3. Remove the insert from the blade assembly. The 
insert has two notches at one end that are locked by 
bottom claws of the blade assembly. At the notched 
end, pull the insert from the blade assembly. 



4. To install the new wiper insert, slide the insert (D), 
notched end last, into the end with two blade claws 
(A). Slide the insert all the way through the blade 
claws at the opposite end (B). The plastic caps (C) 
will be forced off as the insert is fully inserted. 

5. Be sure that the notches are locked by the bottom 
claws. Make sure that all other claws are properly 
locked on both sides of the insert slots. 

6-44 



A. Claw in Notch 

B. Correct Installation 

C. Incorrect Installation 

6. Put the blade assembly pivot in the wiper arm hook. 
Pull up until the pivot locking tab locks in the hook slot. 

7. Carefully lower the wiper arm and blade assembly 
onto the windshield. 


Tires 

Your new vehicle comes with high-quality tires made by 
a leading tire manufacturer. If you ever have questions 
about your tire warranty and where to obtain service, see 
your GM Warranty booklet for details. 


A CAUTION: 


Poorly maintained and improperly used tires 
are dangerous. 

• Overloading your tires can cause 

overheating as a result of too much friction. 
You could have an air-out and a serious 
accident. See “Loading Your Vehicle” in 
the Index. 

CAUTION: (Continued) 


CAUTION: (Continued) 


• Underinflated tires pose the same danger as 
overloaded tires. The resulting accident 
could cause serious injury. Check all tires 
frequently to maintain the recommended 
pressure. Tire pressure should be checked 
when your tires are cold. 

• Overinflated tires are more likely to 

be cut, punctured or broken by a sudden 
impact — such as when you hit a pothole. 
Keep tires at the recommended pressure. 

• Worn, old tires can cause accidents. If your 
tread is badly worn, or if your tires have 
been damaged, replace them. 


6-45 


Inflation — Tire Pressure 


The Certification/Tire label, which is on the driver’s 
door door edge, above the door latch, shows the correct 
inflation pressures for your tires when they’re cold. 
“Cold” means your vehicle has been sitting for at least 
three hours or driven no more than 1 mile (1.6 km). 


NOTICE: 


Don’t let anyone tell you that underinflation or 
overinflation is all right. It’s not. If your tires 
don’t have enough air (underinflation), you can 
get the following: 

• Too much flexing 

• Too much heat 

• Tire overloading 

• Bad wear 

• Bad handling 

• Bad fuel economy. 

NOTICE: (Continued) 


6-46 


NOTICE: (Continued) 


If your tires have too much air (overinflation), 
you can get the following: 

• Unusual wear 

• Bad handling 

• Rough ride 

• Needless damage from road hazards. 


When to Check 

Check your tires once a month or more. Also, check the 
tire pressure of the spare tire. 

If you have a compact spare tire, it should be at 
60 psi (420 kPa). 

How to Check 

Use a good quality pocket-type gage to check tire 
pressure. You can’t tell if your tires are properly inflated 
simply by looking at them. Radial tires may look 
properly inflated even when they’re underinflated. 

Be sure to put the valve caps back on the valve stems. 
They help prevent leaks by keeping out dirt and moisture. 


Tire Inspection and Rotation 

Tires should be rotated every 6,000 to 8,000 miles 
(10 000 to 13 000 km). Any time you notice unusual 
wear, rotate your tires as soon as possible and check 
wheel alignment. Also check for damaged tires or 
wheels. See “When It’s Time for New Tires” and 
“Wheel Replacement” later in this section for more 
information. Make sure the spare tire is stored securely. 
Push, pull, and then try to rotate or turn the tire. If it 
moves, use the wheel wrench to tighten the cable. See 
“Storing a Flat or Spare Tire and Tools” in the Index. 

The purpose of regular rotation is to achieve more uniform 
wear for all tires on the vehicle. The first rotation is the 
most important. See “Scheduled Maintenance Services” in 
the Index for scheduled rotation intervals. 




When rotating your tires, always use one of the correct 
rotation patterns shown here. 

If your vehicle has a compact spare tire, don’t include it 
in your tire rotation. 

After the tires have been rotated, adjust the 
front and rear inflation pressures as shown on the 
Certification/Tire label. Make certain that all wheel nuts 
are properly tightened. See “Wheel Nut Torque” 
in the Index. 


6-47 






A CAUTION: 


Rust or dirt on a wheel, or on the parts to which 
it is fastened, can make wheel nuts become loose 
after a time. The wheel could come off and cause 
an accident. When you change a wheel, remove 
any rust or dirt from places where the wheel 
attaches to the vehicle. In an emergency, you can 
use a cloth or a paper towel to do this; but be 
sure to use a scraper or wire brush later, if 
you need to, to get all the rust or dirt off. 

(See “Changing a Flat Tire” in the Index.) 


6-48 


When It’s Time for New Tires 



One way to tell when it’s 
time for new tires is to 
check the treadwear 
indicators, which will 
appear when your tires have 
only 1/16 inch (1.6 mm) or 
less of tread remaining. 


You need a new tire if any of the following statements 

are true: 

• You can see the indicators at three or more places 
around the tire. 

• You can see cord or fabric showing through 
the tire’s rubber. 

• The tread or sidewall is cracked, cut or snagged deep 
enough to show cord or fabric. 

• The tire has a bump, bulge or split. 

• The tire has a puncture, cut or other damage that 
can’t be repaired well because of the size or location 
of the damage. 


Buying New Tires 

To find out what kind and size of tires you need, look at 
the Certification/Tire label. 

The tires installed on your vehicle when it was new had 
a Tire Performance Criteria Specification (TPC Spec) 
number on each tire’s sidewall. When you get new tires, 
get ones with that same TPC Spec number. That way 
your vehicle will continue to have tires that are designed 
to give proper endurance, handling, speed rating, 
traction, ride and other things during normal service on 
your vehicle. If your tires have an all-season tread 
design, the TPC number will be followed by an “MS” 
(for mud and snow). 

If you ever replace your tires with those not having a 
TPC Spec number, make sure they are the same size, 
load range, speed rating and construction type (bias, 
bias-belted or radial) as your original tires. 


A CAUTION: 


Mixing tires could cause you to lose control while 
driving. If you mix tires of diff erent sizes or types 
(radial and bias-belted tires), the vehicle may not 
handle properly, and you could have a crash. 
Using tires of different sizes may also cause 
damage to your vehicle. Be sure to use the same 
size and type tires on all wheels. 

It’s all right to drive with your compact 
spare (if you have one). It was developed for use 
on your vehicle. 


A CAUTION: 


If you use bias-ply tires on your vehicle, the 
wheel rim flanges could develop cracks after 
many miles of driving. A tire and/or wheel could 
fail suddenly, causing a crash. Use only radial-ply 
tires with the wheels on your vehicle. 


6-49 


Uniform Tire Quality Grading 

Quality grades can be found where applicable on the 
tire sidewall between tread shoulder and maximum 
section width. For example: 

Treadwear 200 Traction AA Temperature A 

The following information relates to the system 
developed by the United States National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration, which grades tires by 
treadwear, traction and temperature performance. 

(This applies only to vehicles sold in the United States.) 
The grades are molded on the sidewalls of most 
passenger car tires. The Uniform Tire Quality Grading 
system does not apply to deep tread, winter-type snow 
tires, space saver or temporary use spare tires, tires with 
nominal rim diameters of 10 to 20 inches (25 to 30 cm), 
or to some limited-production tires. 

While the tires available on General Motors passenger 
cars and light trucks may vary with respect to these 
grades, they must also conform to Federal safety 
requirements and additional General Motors Tire 
Performance Criteria (TPC) standards. 


6-50 


Treadwear 


The treadwear grade is a comparative rating based on 
the wear rate of the tire when tested under controlled 
conditions on a specified government test course. For 
example, a tire graded 150 would wear one and a half 
(1 1/2) times as well on the government course as a tire 
graded 100. The relative performance of tires depends 
upon the actual conditions of their use, however, and 
may depart significantly from the norm due to variations 
in driving habits, service practices and differences in 
road characteristics and climate. 

Traction — AA, A, B, C 

The traction grades, from highest to lowest, are AA, 

A, B, and C. Those grades represent the tire’s ability to 
stop on wet pavement as measured under controlled 
conditions on specified government test surfaces of 
asphalt and concrete. A tire marked C may have poor 
traction performance. Warning: The traction grade 
assigned to this tire is based on straight-ahead braking 
traction tests, and does not include acceleration, 
cornering, hydroplaning, or peak traction characteristics. 


Temperature — A, B, C 

The temperature grades are A (the highest), B, and C, 
representing the tire’s resistance to the generation of 
heat and its ability to dissipate heat when tested under 
controlled conditions on a specified indoor laboratory 
test wheel. Sustained high temperature can cause the 
material of the tire to degenerate and reduce tire life, and 
excessive temperature can lead to sudden tire failure. 

The grade C corresponds to a level of performance 
which all passenger car tires must meet under the 
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 109. Grades 
B and A represent higher levels of performance on the 
laboratory test wheel than the minimum required by law. 

Warning: The temperature grade for this tire is 
established for a tire that is properly inflated and 
not overloaded. Excessive speed, underinflation, or 
excessive loading, either separately or in combination, 
can cause heat buildup and possible tire failure. 

Wheel Alignment and Tire Balance 

The wheels on your vehicle were aligned and balanced 
carefully at the factory to give you the longest tire life 
and best overall performance. 


Scheduled wheel alignment and wheel balancing are 
not needed. However, if you notice unusual tire wear 
or your vehicle pulling one way or the other, the 
alignment may need to be reset. If you notice your 
vehicle vibrating when driving on a smooth road, 
your wheels may need to be rebalanced. 

Wheel Replacement 

Replace any wheel that is bent, cracked, or badly rusted 
or corroded. If wheel nuts keep coming loose, the wheel, 
wheel bolts and wheel nuts should be replaced. If the 
wheel leaks air, replace it (except some aluminum 
wheels, which can sometimes be repaired). 

See your dealer if any of these conditions exist. 

Your dealer will know the kind of wheel you need. 

Each new wheel should have the same load-carrying 
capacity, diameter, width, offset and be mounted the 
same way as the one it replaces. 

If you need to replace any of your wheels, wheel bolts 
or wheel nuts, replace them only with new GM original 
equipment parts. This way, you will be sure to have the 
right wheel, wheel bolts and wheel nuts for your vehicle. 


6-51 


A CAUTION: 


Using the wrong replacement wheels, wheel bolts 
or wheel nuts on your vehicle can be dangerous. 
It could affect the braking and handling of your 
vehicle, make your tires lose air and make you 
lose control. You could have a collision in which 
you or others could be injured. Always use the 
correct wheel, wheel bolts and wheel nuts 
for replacement. 


NOTICE: 


The wrong wheel can also cause problems with 
bearing life, brake cooling, speedometer or 
odometer calibration, headlamp aim, bumper 
height, vehicle ground clearance and tire or tire 
chain clearance to the body and chassis. 


See “Changing a Flat Tire” in the Index for 
more information. 


6-52 


Used Replacement Wheels 


A CAUTION: 


Putting a used wheel on your vehicle is 
dangerous. You can’t know how it’s been used or 
how far it’s been driven. It could fail suddenly 
and cause an accident. If you have to replace a 
wheel, use a new GM original equipment wheel. 


Tire Chains 


NOTICE: 


If your vehicle has P235/75R15, P235/70R15, 
P235/55R16 or 31xl0.50R15LT/C size tires, don’t 
use tire chains. They can damage your vehicle 
because there’s not enough clearance. 

Use another type of traction device only if its 
manufacturer recommends it for use on your 

NOTICE: (Continued) 


NOTICE: (Continued) 


vehicle and tire size combination and road 
conditions. Follow that manufacturer’s 
instructions. To help avoid damage to your 
vehicle, drive slowly, readjust or remove the 
device if it’s contacting your vehicle, and don’t 
spin your wheels. 

If you do find traction devices that will fit, 
install them on the rear tires. 

If you have other size tires, use tire chains only 
where legal and only when you must. Use only SAE 
Class “S” type chains that are the proper size for 
your tires. Install them on the drive axle tires 
(four-wheel-drive vehicles can use chains on both 
axles) and tighten them as tightly as possible with 
the ends securely fastened. Drive slowly and follow 
the chain manufacturer’s instructions. If you can 
hear the chains contacting your vehicle, stop and 
retighten them. If the contact continues, slow down 
until it stops. Driving too fast or spinning the 
wheels with chains on will damage your vehicle. 


Appearance Care 

Remember, cleaning products can be hazardous. Some 
are toxic. Others can burst into flame if you strike a 
match or get them on a hot part of the vehicle. Some are 
dangerous if you breathe their fumes in a closed space. 
When you use anything from a container to clean your 
vehicle, be sure to follow the manufacturer’s warnings 
and instructions. And always open your doors or 
windows when you’re cleaning the inside. 

Never use these to clean your vehicle: 

• Gasoline 

• Benzene 

• Naphtha 

• Carbon Tetrachloride 

• Acetone 

• Paint Thinner 

• Turpentine 

• Lacquer Thinner 

• Nail Polish Remover 

They can all be hazardous -- some more than 
others — and they can all damage your vehicle, too. 


6-53 


Don’t use any of these unless this manual says you can. 
In many uses, these will damage your vehicle: 

• Alcohol 

• Laundry Soap 

• Bleach 

• Reducing Agents 

Cleaning the Inside of Your Vehicle 

Use a vacuum cleaner often to get rid of dust and loose 
dirt. Wipe vinyl, leather, plastic and painted surfaces 
with a clean, damp cloth. 

Cleaning of Fabric and Carpet 

Your dealer has two cleaners, Multi-Purpose Interior 
Cleaner and Capture Non-Solvent Dry Spot and 
Soil Remover for cleaning fabric and carpet. They will 
clean normal spots and stains very well. You can get 
GM-approved cleaning products from your dealer. 

(See “Appearance Care and Materials” in the Index.) 


6-54 


Here are some cleaning tips: 

• Always read the instructions on the cleaner label. 

• Clean up stains as soon as you can -- before they set. 

• Carefully scrape off any excess stain. 

• Use a clean cloth or sponge, and change to a clean area 
often. A soft brush may be used if stains are stubborn. 

• If a ring forms on fabric after spot cleaning, clean the 
entire area immediately or it will set. 

Using Multi-Purpose Interior Cleaner 
on Fabric 

1 . Vacuum and brush the area to remove any loose dirt. 

2. Always clean a whole trim panel or section. Mask 
surrounding trim along stitch or welt lines. 

3. Mix powdered cleaner following the directions on 
the container label to form thick suds. 

4. Use suds only and apply with a clean sponge. 

Don’t saturate the material and don’t rub it roughly. 

5. As soon as you’ve cleaned the section, use a sponge 
to remove the suds. 

6. Wipe cleaned area with a clean, damp towel or cloth. 

7. Wipe with a clean cloth and let dry. 


Special Fabric Cleaning Problems 

Stains caused by such things as catsup, coffee (black), 
egg, fruit, fruit juice, milk, soft drinks, vomit, urine and 
blood can be removed as follows: 

1. Carefully scrape off excess stain, then sponge the 
soiled area with cool water. 

2. If a stain remains, follow the multi-purpose interior 
cleaner instructions described earlier. 

3. If an odor lingers after cleaning vomit or urine, 
treat the area with a water/baking soda solution: 

1 teaspoon (5 ml) of baking soda to 1 cup (250 ml) 
of lukewarm water. 

4. Let dry. 

Stains caused by candy, ice cream, mayonnaise, chili 
sauce and unknown stains can be removed as follows: 

1 . Carefully scrape off excess stain. 

2. First, clean with cool water and allow to 
dry completely. 

3. If a stain remains, follow instructions for 
Multi-Purpose Interior Cleaner. 


Cleaning Vinyl 

Use warm water and a clean cloth. 

• Rub with a clean, damp cloth to remove dirt. 

You may have to do it more than once. 

• Things like tar, asphalt and shoe polish will stain if you 
don’t get them off quickly. Use a clean cloth and a 
vinyl/leather cleaner. See your dealer for this product. 

Cleaning Leather 

Use a soft cloth with lukewarm water and a mild soap or 

saddle soap and wipe dry with a soft cloth. Then, let the 

leather dry naturally. Do not use heat to dry. 

• For stubborn stains, use a leather cleaner. See your 
dealer for this product. 

• Never use oils, varnishes, solvent-based or abrasive 
cleaners, furniture polish or shoe polish on leather. 

• Soiled or stained leather should be cleaned 
immediately. If dirt is allowed to work into the 
finish, it can harm the leather. 


6-55 


Cleaning the Top of the Instrument Panel 

Use only mild soap and water to clean the top surfaces 
of the instrument panel. Sprays containing silicones or 
waxes may cause annoying reflections in the windshield 
and even make it difficult to see through the windshield 
under certain conditions. 

Cleaning Interior Plastic Components 

Use only a mild soap and water solution on a soft cloth 
or sponge. Commercial cleaners may affect the 
surface finish. 

Care of Safety Belts 

Keep belts clean and dry. 


A CAUTION: 


Do not bleach or dye safety belts. If you do, it 
may severely weaken them. In a crash, they 
might not be able to provide adequate protection. 
Clean safety belts only with mild soap and 
lukewarm water. 


6-56 


Cleaning Glass Surfaces 

Glass should be cleaned often. GM Glass Cleaner or 
a liquid household glass cleaner will remove normal 
tobacco smoke and dust films on interior glass. 

(See “Appearance Care and Materials” in the Index.) 

Don’t use abrasive cleaners on glass, because they may 
cause scratches. Avoid placing decals on the inside rear 
window, since they may have to be scraped off later. 

Cleaning the Outside of the 
Windshield/Backglass and Wiper Blades 

If the windshield is not clear after using the windshield 
washer, or if the wiper blade chatters when running, wax, 
sap or other material may be on the blade or windshield. 

Clean the outside of the windshield with GM Windshield 
Cleaner, Bon Ami Powder (non-scratching glass 
cleaning powder), GM Part No. 1050011. The windshield 
is clean if beads do not form when you rinse it with water. 

Grime from the windshield will stick to the wiper blades 
and affect their performance. Clean the blade by wiping 
vigorously with a cloth soaked in full-strength windshield 
washer solvent. Then rinse the blade with water. 

Check the wiper blades and clean them as necessary; 
replace blades that look worn. 


Weatherstrips 

Silicone grease on weatherstrips will make them last 
longer, seal better, and not stick or squeak. Apply silicone 
grease with a clean cloth at least every six months. 

During very cold, damp weather more frequent 
application may be required. (See “Recommended Fluids 
and Lubricants” in the Index.) 

Cleaning the Outside of Your Vehicle 

The paint finish on your vehicle provides beauty, depth 
of color, gloss retention and durability. 

Washing Your Vehicle 

The best way to preserve your vehicle’s finish is to keep it 
clean by washing it often with lukewarm or cold water. 

Don’t wash your vehicle in the direct rays of the sun. 
Use a car washing soap. Don’t use strong soaps or 
chemical detergents. Be sure to rinse the vehicle well, 
removing all soap residue completely. You can get 
GM-approved cleaning products from your dealer. 

(See “Appearance Care and Materials” in the Index.) 
Don’t use cleaning agents that are petroleum based, 
or that contain acid or abrasives. All cleaning agents 
should be flushed promptly and not allowed to dry 
on the surface, or they could stain. 


Dry the finish with a soft, clean chamois or an all-cotton 
towel to avoid surface scratches and water spotting. 

High pressure car washes may cause water to 
enter your vehicle. 

Cleaning Exterior Lamps/Lenses 

Use lukewarm or cold water, a soft cloth and a car 
washing soap to clean exterior lamps and lenses. 

Follow instructions under “Washing Your Vehicle.” 

Finish Care 

Occasional waxing or mild polishing of your vehicle by 
hand may be necessary to remove residue from the paint 
finish. You can get GM-approved cleaning products 
from your dealer. (See “Appearance Care and Materials” 
in the Index.) 

Your vehicle has a “basecoat/clearcoat” paint finish. 

The clearcoat gives more depth and gloss to the colored 
basecoat. Always use waxes and polishes that are 
non-abrasive and made for a basecoat/clearcoat 
paint finish. 


6-57 


NOTICE: 


Machine compounding or aggressive polishing 
on a basecoat/clearcoat paint finish may dull the 
finish or leave swirl marks. 


Foreign materials such as calcium chloride and other 
salts, ice melting agents, road oil and tar, tree sap, bird 
droppings, chemicals from industrial chimneys, etc., can 
damage your vehicle’s finish if they remain on painted 
surfaces. Wash the vehicle as soon as possible. If 
necessary, use non-abrasive cleaners that are marked 
safe for painted surfaces to remove foreign matter. 

Exterior painted surfaces are subject to aging, weather and 
chemical fallout that can take their toll over a period of years. 
You can help to keep the paint finish looking new by keeping 
your vehicle garaged or covered whenever possible. 

Cleaning Aluminum Wheels 
(If Equipped) 

Keep your wheels clean using a soft clean cloth with 
mild soap and water. Rinse with clean water. After 
rinsing thoroughly, dry with a soft clean towel. A wax 
may then be applied. 


6-58 


The surface of these wheels is similar to the painted 
surface of your vehicle. Don’t use strong soaps, 
chemicals, abrasive polishes, abrasive cleaners, cleaners 
with acid or abrasive cleaning brushes on them because 
you could damage the surface. Do not use chrome polish 
on any wheels other than chrome-plated wheels. 

Don’t take your vehicle through an automatic car wash 
that has silicon carbide tire cleaning brushes. These 
brushes can also damage the surface of these wheels. 

Cleaning Tires 

To clean your tires, use a stiff brush with a tire cleaner. 


NOTICE: 


When applying a tire dressing always take care to 
wipe off any overspray or splash from all painted 
surfaces on the body or wheels of the vehicle. 
Petroleum-based products may damage the paint 
finish and tires. 


Sheet Metal Damage 

If your vehicle is damaged and requires sheet metal 
repair or replacement, make sure the body repair shop 
applies anti-corrosion material to the parts repaired or 
replaced to restore corrosion protection. 

Original manufacturer replacement parts will provide 
the corrosion protection while maintaining the warranty. 

Finish Damage 

Any stone chips, fractures or deep scratches in the finish 
should be repaired right away. Bare metal will corrode 
quickly and may develop into a major repair expense. 

Minor chips and scratches can be repaired with touch-up 
materials available from your dealer or other service 
outlets. Larger areas of finish damage can be corrected 
in your dealer’s body and paint shop. 

Underbody Maintenance 

Chemicals used for ice and snow removal and dust control 
can collect on the underbody. If these are not removed, 
accelerated corrosion (rust) can occur on the underbody 
parts such as fuel lines, frame, floor pan and exhaust 
system even though they have corrosion protection. 


At least every spring, flush these materials from the 
underbody with plain water. Clean any areas where mud 
and other debris can collect. Dirt packed in closed areas 
of the frame should be loosened before being flushed. 
Your dealer or an underbody car washing system can do 
this for you. 

Chemical Paint Spotting 

Some weather and atmospheric conditions can create a 
chemical fallout. Airborne pollutants can fall upon and 
attack painted surfaces on your vehicle. This damage 
can take two forms: blotchy, ringlet-shaped 
discolorations, and small irregular dark spots 
etched into the paint surface. 

Although no defect in the paint job causes this, GM will 
repair, at no charge to the owner, the surfaces of new 
vehicles damaged by this fallout condition within 
12 months or 12,000 miles (20 000 km) of purchase, 
whichever occurs first. 

This applies only to materials manufactured and sold by 
General Motors. Bodies, body conversions or equipment 
not made or sold by General Motors are not covered. 


6-59 


GM Vehicle Care/Appearance Materials 


PART NUMBER 

SIZE 

DESCRIPTION 

USAGE 

994954 

23 in. x 25 in. 

Polishing Cloth - Wax Treated 

Exterior polishing cloth 

1050172 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Tar and Road Oil Remover 

Removes tar, road oil and asphalt 

1050173 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Chrome Cleaner and Polish 

Use on chrome, stainless steel, nickel, copper and brass 

1050174 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

White Sidewall Tire Cleaner 

Removes soil and black marks from whitewalls 

1050214 

32 oz. (0.946 L) 

Vinyl Cleaner 

Cleans vinyl tops, upholstery and convertible tops 

1050427 

23 oz. (0.680 L) 

Glass Cleaner 

Removes dirt, grime, smoke and fingerprints 

1052918** 

8 oz. (0.237 L) 

Armor All ™ Protectant 

Protects leather, wood, acrylics, Plexiglas™ , plastic, 
rubber and vinyl 

1052925 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Multi-Purpose Interior Clean- 
er 

Cleans carpets, seats, interior trim, door panels 
and floor mats 

1052929 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Wheel Cleaner 

Spray on and rinse with water 

1052930 

8 oz. (0.237 L) 

Capture Dry Spot Remover 

Attracts, absorbs and removes soils on fabric 

12345721 

2.5 sq. ft. 

Synthetic Chamois 

Shines vehicle without scratching 

12345725 

12 oz. (0.354 L) 

Silicone Tire Shine 

Spray on tire shine 

12377964* 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Finish Enhancer 

Removes dust, fingerprints and surface contaminants 

12377966* 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Cleaner Wax 

Removes light scratches and oxidation and protects finish 

12377984* 

16 oz. (0.473 L) 

Surface Cleaner 

Removes contaminants, blemishes and swirl marks 

See your General Motors Parts Department for these products. * For exterior use only. 

See “Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” in the Index. **Not recommended for use on instrument panels. 


6-60 


Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) 



CODE MODEL YEAR PLANT 

This is the legal identifier for your vehicle. It appears on 
a plate in the front corner of the instrument panel, on the 
driver’s side. You can see it if you look through the 
windshield from outside your vehicle. The VIN also 
appears on the Vehicle Certification and Service Parts 
labels and the certificates of title and registration. 

Engine Identification 

The 8th character in your VIN is the engine code. This 
code will help you identify your engine, specifications 
and replacement parts. 


Service Parts Identification Label 

You’ll find this label on the inside of the glove box. 

It’s very helpful if you ever need to order parts. 

On this label is: 

• your VIN, 

• the model designation, 

• paint information and 

• a list of all production options and special equipment. 
Be sure that this label is not removed from the vehicle. 


6-61 


Electrical System 

Add-On Electrical Equipment 


NOTICE: 


Don’t add anything electrical to your vehicle 
unless you check with your dealer first. Some 
electrical equipment can damage your vehicle 
and the damage wouldn’t be covered by your 
warranty. Some add-on electrical equipment can 
keep other components from working as 
they should. 


Your vehicle has an air bag system. Before attempting to 
add anything electrical to your vehicle, see “Servicing 
Your Air Bag-Equipped Vehicle” in the Index. 

Headlamps 

The headlamp wiring is protected by an internal circuit 
breaker. An electrical overload will cause the lamps to go 
on and off, or in some cases to remain off. If this happens, 
have your headlamp wiring checked right away. 


6-62 


Windshield Wipers 

The windshield wiper motor is protected by a circuit 
breaker and a fuse. If the motor overheats due to heavy 
snow or ice., the wiper will stop until the motor cools. 

If the overload is caused by some electrical problem, be 
sure to get it fixed. 

Power Windows and Other Power Options 

Circuit breakers protect the power windows and other 
power accessories. When the current load is too heavy, 
the circuit breaker opens and closes, protecting the 
circuit until the problem is fixed or goes away. 

Fuses and Circuit Breakers 

The wiring circuits in your vehicle are protected from 
short circuits by a combination of fuses and circuit 
breakers. This greatly reduces the chance of fires caused 
by electrical problems. 

Look at the silver-colored band inside the fuse. If the band 
is broken or melted, replace the fuse. Be sure you replace 
a bad fuse with a new one of the identical size and rating. 

If you ever have a problem on the road and don’t have a spare 
fuse, you can borrow one that has the same amperage. lust 
pick some feature of your vehicle that you can get along 
without — like the radio or cigarette lighter — and use its fuse, 
if it is the correct amperage. Replace it as soon as you can. 


Instrument Panel Fuse Block 



The instrument panel fuse 
block is at the driver’s end 
of the instrument panel. 


Remove the cover by turning the fastener 
counterclockwise. Extra fuses and the fuse extractor are 
provided in the cover. To reinstall the fuse panel cover, 
push in and turn the fastener clockwise. 



Fuse/Circuit 
Breaker Usage 

A Not Used 

B Not Used 

1 Not Used 

2 Cigarette Lighter, 
Data Link Connector 


(Continued) 

6-63 


Fuse/Circuit 
Breaker Usage 

3 Cruise Control, Body Controls 
TBC, Cruise Module, 

Cruise Switch 

4 Gages, Body Controls TBC, 
Instrument Panel Cluster, 

B+ Power 

5 Parking Lamps, Power Window 
Switch, TBC, Ashtray Lamp 

6 Not Used 

7 Headlamp Switch, Body Controls 
TBC, Headlamp Relay 

8 Courtesy Lamps, Inadvertent 
Power Relay 

9 HVAC Control Head 

10 Turn Signal 

1 1 Instrument Panel Cluster, 

Engine Controls 

12 Interior Illumination 


6-64 


Fuse/Circuit 


Breaker 

Usage 

13 

Auxiliary Power 

14 

Power Locks 

15 

4WD Switch, Engine Control 
(VCM, PCM, Transmission) 

16 

Supplemental Inflatable Restraint 

17 

Front Wiper 

18 

Not Used 

19 

Radio Battery 

20 

Not Used 

21 

HVAC I, HVAC Control Head, 
HVAC Devices 

22 

Anti-Lock Brakes 

23 

Rear Wiper 

24 

Radio, Ignition 


Engine Compartment Fuse Block 



The fuse block is under the hood on the driver’s side of 
the engine compartment. 

Remove the cover by turning the fastener 
counterclockwise. To reinstall the fuse panel cover, push 
in and turn the fastener clockwise. 



Name 

Usage 

TRL TRN 

Not Used 

TRR TRN 

Not Used 

TRL B/U 

Not Used 

VEH B/U 

Vehicle Back-Up Lamps 

RT TURN 

Right Turn Signal Front 

LT TURN 

Left Turn Signal Front 

HDLP WAV 

Not Used 


(Continued) 


6-65 


Name 

Usage 

LTTRN 

Left Turn Signal Rear 

RTTRN 

Right Turn Signal Rear 

RRPRK 

Right Rear Parking Lamps 

TRL PRK 

Not Used 

LT HDLP 

Left Headlamp 

RT HDLP 

Right Headlamp 

FR PRK 

Front Parking Lamps 

INTBAT 

I/P Fuse Block Feed 

ENG I 

Engine Sensors/Solenoids, MAF, 
CAM, PURGE, VENT 

ECMB 

Engine Control Module, Fuel Pump 
Module, Oil Pressure 

ABS 

Anti-Lock Brake System 

ECM I 

Engine Control Module Injectors 

BTSI 

Automatic Transmission Shift Lock 
Control System 

B/ULP 

Back-Up Lamps 

A/C 

Air Conditioning 

W/W PMP 

Not Used 

HORN 

Horn 

IGNB 

Column Feed, IGN 2, 3, 4 

RAP 

Retained Accessory Power 

LD LEV 

Not Used 

6-66 



Name 

Usage 

OXYSEN 

Oxygen Sensor 

IGNE 

Engine 

MIR/LKS 

Mirrors, Door Locks 

FOG LP 

Fog Lamps 

IGN A 

Starting and Charging IGN 1 

STUD #2 

Accessory Feeds, Electric Brake 

PARKLP 

Parking Lamps 

LR PRK 

Left Rear Parking Lamps 

IGN C 

Starter Solenoid, Fuel Pump, 
PRNDL 

HTDSEAT 

Not Used 

HVAC 

HVAC System 

TRCHMSL 

Not Used 

RRDFOG 

Not Used 

TBC 

Truck Body Computer 

CRANK 

Clutch Switch, NSBU Switch 

HAZLP 

Hazard Lamps 

VECHMSL 

Vehicle Center High-Mounted 
Stoplamp 

HTDMIR 

Heated Outside Mirrors 

ATC 

Transfer Case (Four-Wheel Drive) 

STOPLP 

S topi amps 

RR W/W 

Not Used 


Replacement Bulbs 

Lamps Quantity Number 

Halogen Headlamps, Composite Low-Beam 2 9006 HB4 

Halogen Headlamps, Composite High-Beam 2 9005 HB3 

Tail and Stoplamps 2 3057 

Front Sidemarker Lamps 2 194 

Front Turn Signal Lamps 2 3157NA 

Center High-Mounted Stoplamp 2 577 


Capacities and Specifications 

Please refer to “Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” in the index for more information. See refrigerant change label 
under the hood for charge capacity information and requirements. 


Engine 

Type 

VIN Code 
Firing Order 
Horsepower (T Series) 
Horsepower (S Series) 
Thermostat Specification 
Spark Plug Gap 


2200 L4 

L4 

4,5 

1-3-4-2 

N/A 

120 at 5,000 rpm 
195°F (91°C) 
0.040 inches 
(1.01 mm) 


“VORTEC” 4300 V6 

V6 

X 

1-6-5-4-3-2 
180 at 4,400 rpm 
175 at 4,400 rpm 
195°F (91°C) 
0.060 inches 
(1.52 mm) 


“VORTEC” 4300 V6 

V6 

W 

1-6-5-4-3-2 
190 at 4,400 rpm 
180 at 4,400 rpm 
195°F (91°C) 
0.060 inches 
(1.52 mm) 


6-67 


Wheels and Tires 

Wheel Nut Torque 100 lb-fit (140 N-m) 

Tire Pressure See the Certification/Tire label. 

See “Loading Your Vehicle” in the Index. 

Capacities (Approximate) 

Cooling System Capacity* 

Engine 

2200 L4 Auto./Manual 
“VORTEC” 4300 V6 Auto. 

“VORTEC” 4300 V6 Manual 

Crankcase Capacity* 

Engine Quantity with Filter 

2200 L4 4.5 quarts (4.3 L) 

“VORTEC” 4.5 quarts (4.3 L) 

4300 V6 


Quantity 

11.5 quarts (11.0 L) 
11.7 quarts (11.1 L) 
11.9 quarts (11.3 L) 


6-68 


Automatic Transmission Capacity* 

Type Quantity (Drain and Refill) 

4L60E 5.0 quarts (4.7 L) 

* After refill, the level must be checked. 

Differential Fluid 
Axle Quantity 

Rear 4.0 pints (1.9 L) 

Front 2.6 pints ( 1 .2 L) 

Fuel Tank Capacity 
Type Quantity 

Standard Tank 18.5 U.S. gallons (70.0 L) 


Normal Maintenance Replacement Parts 

Replacement part numbers listed in this section are based on the latest information available at the time of printing 
and are subject to change. If a part listed in this manual is not the same as the part used in your vehicle when it was 
built, or if you have any questions, please contact your GM dealer. 


Engine 

Thermostat 
Oil Filter 
Air Cleaner Filter 
PCV Valve 

Automatic Transmission Filter Kit 
Spark Plugs 
Fuel Filter 

Windshield Wiper Blades 


2200 L4 “VORTEC” 4300 V6 


24577299 

PF47 

A1163C 

N/A 

24200796 

41-948 

GF481 

Trico (20 inches/5 1 cm) 


12559051 

PF52 

A1163C 

CV769C 

24200796 

41-932 

GF481 

Trico (20 inches/5 1 cm) 


6-69 


Vehicle Dimensions* 

Wheelbase 

Reg Cab Short Box 108.3 inches 

Reg Cab Long Box 117.9 inches 

Extended Cab 122.9 inches 

Length 

Reg Cab Short Box 189.0 inches 

Reg Cab Long Box 204.9 inches 

Extended Cab 203.6 inches 

Height 

2WD Reg Cab 62.1 inches 

2WD Ext Cab 62.2 inches 

4WD Reg Cab Short Box . . 63.8 inches 
4WD Reg Cab Long Box . . 65.4 inches 

4WD Extended Cab 63.8 inches 

Width 67.9 inches 


(275.1 

cm) 

(299.5 

cm) 

(312.2 

cm) 

(480.1 

cm) 

(520.4 

cm) 

(517.1 

cm) 

(157.7 

cm) 

(158.0 

cm) 

(162.1 

cm) 

(166.1 

cm) 

(162.1 

cm) 

(172.5 

cm) 


6-70 


Front Tread 

2WD 

0.0 Wheel Offset 54.5 inches (138.4 cm) 

-6.4 Wheel Offset 55.0 inches (139.6 cm) 

4WD 

15-inch Tires 57.3 inches (145.4 cm) 

31 x 10.5 Tires 61.2 inches (155.4 cm) 

Rear Tread 

2WD 54.7 inches (138.8 cm) 

4WD 

15-inch Tires 55.1 inches (139.9 cm) 

31 x 10.5 Tires 59.1 inches (150.0 cm) 


*Figures reflect base equipment only. 


Section 7 Maintenance Schedule 


This section covers the maintenance required for your vehicle. Your vehicle needs these services to retain its safety, 
dependability and emission control performance. 


7-2 Introduction 

7-4 Part A: Scheduled Maintenance Services 

7-42 Part B: Owner Checks and Services 


7-47 Part C: Periodic Maintenance Inspections 

7-49 Part D: Recommended Fluids and Lubricants 

7-52 Part E: Maintenance Record 


7-1 


IMPORTANT: 

KEEP ENGINE OIL 
AT THE PROPER 
LEVEL AND CHANGE AS 
RECOMMENDED 



Protection 

Plan 


Have you purchased the GM Protection Plan ? The Plan 
supplements your new vehicle warranties. See your 
Warranty and Owner Assistance booklet, or your dealer 
for details. 


7-2 


Introduction 

Your Vehicle and the Environment 


Proper vehicle maintenance not only helps to keep your 
vehicle in good working condition, but also helps the 
environment. All recommended maintenance procedures 
are important. Improper vehicle maintenance can even 
affect the quality of the air we breathe. Improper fluid 
levels or the wrong tire inflation can increase the level 
of emissions from your vehicle. To help protect our 
environment, and to keep your vehicle in good 
condition, please maintain your vehicle properly. 

Maintenance Requirements 

Maintenance intervals, checks, inspections and 
recommended fluids and lubricants as prescribed in 
this manual are necessary to keep your vehicle in good 
working condition. Any damage caused by failure to 
follow recommended maintenance may not be covered 
by warranty. 







How This Section is Organized 

This maintenance schedule is divided into five parts: 

“Part A: Scheduled Maintenance Services” shows 
what to have done and how often. Some of these 
services can be complex, so unless you are technically 
qualified and have the necessary equipment, you should 
let your dealer’s service department or another qualified 
service center do these jobs. 


A CAUTION: 


Performing maintenance work on a vehicle can 
be dangerous. In trying to do some jobs, you can 
be seriously injured. Do your own maintenance 
work only if you have the required know-how 
and the proper tools and equipment for the job. 
If you have any doubt, have a qualified 
technician do the work. 


If you want to get the service information, see 
“Service and Owner Publications” in the Index. 


“Part B: Owner Checks and Services” tells you what 
should be checked and when. It also explains what you 
can easily do to help keep your vehicle in good condition. 

“Part C: Periodic Maintenance Inspections” explains 
important inspections that your dealer’s service department 
or another qualified service center should perform. 

“Part D: Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” lists 
some recommended products necessary to help keep 
your vehicle properly maintained. These products, or 
their equivalents, should be used whether you do the 
work yourself or have it done. 

“Part E: Maintenance Record” is a place for you to 
record and keep track of the maintenance performed on 
your vehicle. Keep your maintenance receipts. They may 
be needed to qualify your vehicle for warranty repairs. 


7-3 


Part A: Scheduled 
Maintenance Services 

Using Your Maintenance Schedule 

We at General Motors want to help you keep your vehicle 
in good working condition. But we don’t know exactly 
how you’ll drive it. You may drive very short distances 
only a few times a week. Or you may drive long distances 
all the time in very hot, dusty weather. You may use your 
vehicle in making deliveries. Or you may drive it to work, 
to do errands or in many other ways. 

Because of all the different ways people use their 
vehicles, maintenance needs vary. You may need more 
frequent checks and replacements. So please read the 
following and note how you drive. If you have any 
questions on how to keep your vehicle in good 
condition, see your dealer. 

This part tells you the maintenance services you should 
have done and when you should schedule them. If you 
go to your dealer for your service needs, you’ll know 
that GM-trained and supported service people will 
perform the work using genuine GM parts. 


7-4 


The proper fluids and lubricants to use are listed in 
Part D. Make sure whoever services your vehicle uses 
these. All parts should be replaced and all necessary 
repairs done before you or anyone else drives 
the vehicle. 

These schedules are for vehicles that: 

• carry passengers and cargo within recommended 
limits. You will find these limits on your vehicle’s 
Certification/Tire label. See “Loading Your Vehicle” 
in the Index. 

• are driven on reasonable road surfaces within legal 
driving limits. 

• are driven off-road in the recommended manner. 

See “Off-Road Driving With Your 

Four- Wheel-Drive Vehicle” in the Index. 

• use the recommended fuel. See “Fuel” in the Index. 

Selecting the Right Schedule 

First you’ll need to decide which of the two schedules is 
right for your vehicle. Here’s how to decide which 
schedule to follow: 


Scheduled Maintenance 


Short Trip/City Definition 


Follow the Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance if 

any one of these conditions is true for your vehicle: 

• Most trips are less than 5 to 10 miles (8 to 16 km). 
This is particularly important when outside 
temperatures are below freezing. 

• Most trips include extensive idling (such as frequent 
driving in stop-and-go traffic). 

• Your vehicle has the 2200 L4 (Code 5) flexible 
fuel engine and you have used ethanol fuel 
(85% Ethanol/E-85). 

• You operate your vehicle in dusty areas or 
off-road frequently. 

• You frequently tow a trailer. 

• If the vehicle is used for delivery service, police, taxi 
or other commercial application. 

One of the reasons you should follow this schedule if you 

operate your vehicle under any of these conditions is that 

these conditions cause engine oil to break down sooner. 


Short Trip/City Intervals 


Every 3,000 Miles (5 000 km): Engine Oil and Filter 
Change (or 3 months, whichever occurs first). Chassis 
Lubrication (or 3 months, whichever occurs first). Drive 
Axle Service (or 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

Every 6,000 Miles (10 000 km): Tire Rotation. 

Every 15,000 Miles (25 000 km): Engine Air Cleaner 
Filter Inspection, if driving in dusty conditions. Front 
Wheel Bearing Repack (2WD only) (or at each brake 
relining, whichever occurs first). Automatic 
Transmission Service (severe conditions only). 

Every 30,000 Miles (50 000 km): Engine Air 

Cleaner Filter Replacement. Fuel Filter Replacement 
(except 2200 Code 5 L4 engine). 

Every 50,000 Miles (83 000 km): Automatic 
Transmission Service (normal conditions). 

Every 90,000 Miles (150 000 km): Fuel Filter 
Replacement (2200 Code 5 L4 engine only). 

( Continued ) 


7-5 


Scheduled Maintenance 


Short Trip/City Intervals 


Every 60,000 Miles (100 000 km): Engine Accessory 
Drive Belt Inspection. 

Every 100,000 Miles (166 000 km): Spark Plug Wire 
Inspection. Spark Plug Replacement. 4.3L V6 Engine 
Only: Positive Crankcase Ventilation (PCV) 

Valve Inspection. 

Every 150,000 Miles (240 000 km): Cooling System 
Service (or every 60 months, whichever occurs first). 

These inten’cils only summarize maintenance services. 
Be sure to follow the complete scheduled maintenance 
on the following pages. 


7-6 


Long Trip/Highway Definition 


Follow this scheduled maintenance only if none of 
the conditions from the Short Trip/City Scheduled 
Maintenance are true. Do not use this schedule if the 
vehicle is used for trailer towing, driven in a dusty area 
or used off paved roads. Do not use this schedule if you 
have the 2200 L4 (Code 5) flexible fuel engine and you 
have used ethanol fuel (85% Ethanol/E-85). Use the 
Short Trip/City schedule for these conditions. 

Driving a vehicle with a fully warmed engine under 
highway conditions causes engine oil to break 
down slower. 




Scheduled Maintenance 


Long Trip/Highway Intervals 


Every 7,500 Miles (12 500 km): Engine Oil and Filter 
Change (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
Chassis Lubrication (or every 12 months, whichever 
occurs first). Drive Axle Service. Tire Rotation. 

Every 15,000 Miles (25 000 km): Automatic 
Transmission Service (severe conditions only). 

Every 30,000 Miles (50 000 km): Fuel Filter 
Replacement (except 2200 Code 5 L4 engine). 
Engine Air Cleaner Filter Replacement. Front Wheel 
Bearing Repack (2WD only) (or at each brake 
relining, whichever occurs first). 

Every 50,000 Miles (83 000 km): Automatic 
Transmission Service (normal conditions). 


Long Trip/Highway Intervals 


Every 60,000 Miles (100 000 km): Engine Accessory 
Drive Belt Inspection. 

Every 90,000 Miles (150 000 km): Fuel Filter 
Replacement (2200 Code 5 L4 engine only ). 

Every 100,000 Miles (166 000 km): Spark Plug Wire 
Inspection. Spark Plug Replacement. 4.3L V6 Engine 
Only: Positive Crankcase Ventilation (PCV) 

Valve Inspection. 

Every 150,000 Miles (240 000 km): Cooling System 
Service (or every 60 months, whichever occurs first). 

These inten’als only summarize maintenance services. 

Be sure to follow the complete scheduled maintenance 

on the following pages. 


7-7 






Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


The services shown in this schedule up to 100,000 miles 
(166 000 km) should be performed after 100,000 miles 
(166 000 km) at the same intervals. The services shown 
at 150,000 miles (240 000 km) should be performed at 
the same interval after 150,000 miles (240 000 km). 

See “Owner Checks and Services” and “Periodic 
Maintenance Inspections” following. 

Footnotes 

f The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the 
California Air Resources Board has determined that the 
failure to perform this maintenance item will not nullify 
the emission warranty or limit recall liability prior to 
the completion of the vehicle’s useful life. We, however, 
urge that all recommended maintenance services be 
performed at the indicated inten’als and the 
maintenance be recorded. 

# Lubricate the front suspension, ball joints, steering 
linkage , parking brake cable guides, propshaft splines, 
universal joints and brake pedal springs. 


+ A good time to check your brakes is during tire 
rotation. See “Brake System Inspection ” under 
“Periodic Maintenance Inspections’’ in Part C of 
this schedule. 

** Drive axle service (see “Recommended Fluids and 
Lubricants’’ in the Index for proper lubricant to use): 

• Check fluid level and add fluid as needed. If driving 
in dusty areas or when towing a trailer, drain fluid 
and refill every 15,000 miles (25 000 km). 

• If your vehicle has a locking differential, drain fluid 
and refill at first engine oil change. 

• More frequent lubrication may be required for 
heavy-duty or off-road use. 


7-8 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


3.000 Miles (5 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

6.000 Miles (10 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sen’ice. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-9 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


9.000 Miles (15 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

12.000 Miles (20 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-10 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


15,000 Miles (25 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Inspect engine air cleaner filter if you are driving in dusty conditions. 
Replace filter if necessary. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote f.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-11 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


18.000 Miles (30 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

21.000 Miles (35 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-12 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


24.000 Miles (40 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

27.000 Miles (45 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-13 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


30,000 Miles (50 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sen’ice. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Except 2200 Code 5 L4 Engine: Replace fuel filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote f.) 

□ Replace engine air cleaner filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

7-14 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


33.000 Miles (55 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

36.000 Miles (60 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-15 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


39.000 Miles (65 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

42.000 Miles (70 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-16 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


45,000 Miles (75 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 bn). 

□ Inspect engine air cleaner filter if you are driving in dusty conditions. 
Replace filter if necessary. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote f.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-17 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


48.000 Miles (80 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

50.000 Miles (83 000 km) 

□ If you haven't used your vehicle under severe service conditions listed 
previously and, therefore, haven’t changed your automatic transmission fluid, 
change both the fluid and filter. Manual transmission fluid doesn’t 

require change. 

51.000 Miles (85 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sen’ice. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-18 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


54.000 Miles (90 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

57.000 Miles (95 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-19 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


60,000 Miles (100 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Inspect engine accessory drive belt. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Except 2200 Code 5 L4 Engine: Replace fuel filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote f.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-20 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


□ Replace engine air cleaner filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

63.000 Miles (105 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

66.000 Miles (110 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-21 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


69.000 Miles (115 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

72.000 Miles (120 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-22 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


75,000 Miles (125 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Inspect engine air cleaner filter if you are driving in dusty conditions. 
Replace filter if necessary. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote f.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-23 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


78.000 Miles (130 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

81.000 Miles (135 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-24 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


84.000 Miles (140 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

87.000 Miles (145 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-25 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


90,000 Miles (150 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 bn). 

□ Replace fuel filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote f.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-26 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


□ Replace engine air cleaner filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

93.000 Miles (155 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

96.000 Miles (160 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-27 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


99.000 Miles (165 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 3 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

100.000 Miles (166 000 km) 

n Inspect spark plug wires. 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Replace spark plugs. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ If you haven't used your vehicle under severe service conditions listed 
previously and, therefore, haven’t changed your automatic transmission fluid, 
change both the fluid and filter. Manual transmission fluid doesn’t 

require change. 

□ 4.3L V6 Engine Only: Inspect Positive Crankcase Ventilation (PCV) valve. 
An Emission Control Sendee. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-28 


Short Trip/City Scheduled Maintenance 


150,000 Miles (240 000 km) 

□ Drain, flush and refill cooling system (or every 60 months since last service, 
whichever occurs first). See “Engine Coolant" in the Index for what to use. 
Inspect hoses. Clean radiator, condenser, pressure cap and neck. Pressure test 
cooling system and pressure cap. 

An Emission Control Service. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-29 


Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


The services shown in this schedule up to 100,000 miles 
(166 000 km) should be performed after 100,000 miles 
(166 000 km) at the same intervals. The services shown 
at 150,000 miles (240 000 km) should be performed at 
the same interval after 150,000 miles (240 000 km). 

See “Owner Checks and Services” and “Periodic 
Maintenance Inspections” following. 

Footnotes 

f The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the 
California Air Resources Board has determined that the 
failure to perform this maintenance item will not nullify 
the emission warranty or limit recall liability prior to 
the completion of the vehicle’s useful life. We, however, 
urge that all recommended maintenance services be 
performed at the indicated inten’als and the 
maintenance be recorded. 


• Lubricate the front suspension, ball joints, steering 
linkage, parking brake cable guides, propshaft splines, 
universal joints and brake pedal springs. 

+ A good time to check your brakes is during tire 
rotation. See “Brake System Inspection ” under 
“Periodic Maintenance Inspections’’ in Part C of 
this schedule. 

** Drive axle sendee (see “Recommended Fluids and 
Lubricants’’ in the Index for proper lubricant to use): 

• Check fluid level and add fluid as needed. 

• If your vehicle has a locking differential, drain fluid 
and refill at first engine oil change. 


7-30 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


7,500 Miles (12 500 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

15,000 Miles (25 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-31 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


15,000 Miles (25 000 km) (Continued) 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

22,500 Miles (37 500 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sen’ice. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-32 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


30,000 Miles (50 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

□ Except 2200 Code 5 L4 Engine: Replace fuel filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnotef.) 

□ Replace engine ah' cleaner filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-33 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


37,500 Miles (62 500 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

45,000 Miles (75 000 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-34 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


50,000 Miles (83 000 km) 

□ If you haven’t used your vehicle under severe conditions listed previously and, 
therefore, haven’t changed your automatic transmission fluid, change both the 
fluid and filter. Manual transmission fluid doesn’t require change. 

52,500 Miles (87 500 km) 

□ Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

( See footnote #. ) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-35 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


60,000 Miles (100 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-36 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

□ Inspect engine accessory drive belt. 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Except 2200 Code 5 L4 Engine: Replace fuel filter. 

An Emission Control Sen’ice. (See footnote f.) 

□ Replace engine air cleaner filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

67,500 Miles (112 500 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-37 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


75,000 Miles (125 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 

- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 bn). 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-38 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


82,500 Miles (137 500 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Service. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

90,000 Miles (150 000 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ For Two- Wheel-Drive vehicles only: Clean and repack the front wheel 
bearings (or at each brake relining, whichever occurs first). 

□ Change automatic transmission fluid and filter if the vehicle is mainly driven 
under one or more of these conditions: 

- In heavy city traffic where the outside temperature regularly reaches 
90°F(32°C) or higher. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-39 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


- In hilly or mountainous terrain. 

- When doing frequent trailer towing. 

- Uses such as found in taxi, police or delivery service. 

If you do not use your vehicle under any of these conditions, change the fluid 
and filter every 50,000 miles (83 000 km). 

□ Replace fuel filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. (See footnote T. j 

□ Replace engine air cleaner filter. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 

97,500 Miles (162 500 km) 

n Change engine oil and filter (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Lubricate chassis components (or every 12 months, whichever occurs first). 
(See footnote #.) 

□ Check rear/front axle fluid level and add fluid as needed. Check constant 
velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. (See footnote **.) 

□ Rotate tires. See “Tire Inspection and Rotation” in the Index for proper 
rotation pattern and additional information. (See footnote +.) 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-40 




Long Trip/Highway Scheduled Maintenance 


100,000 Miles (166 000 km) 

n Inspect spark plugwires. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ Replace spark plugs. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 

□ If you haven’t used your vehicle under severe service conditions listed 
previously and, therefore, haven’t changed your automatic transmission fluid, 
change both the fluid and filter. Manual transmission fluid doesn’t 

require change. 

□ 4.3L V6 Engine Only: Inspect Positive Crankcase Ventilation (PCV) valve. 
An Emission Control Sendee. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




150,000 Miles (240 000 km) 

□ Drain, flush and refill cooling system (or every 60 months since last service, 
whichever occurs first). See “Engine Coolant” in the Index for what to use. 
Inspect hoses. Clean radiator, condenser, pressure cap and neck. Pressure test 
the cooling system and pressure cap. 

An Emission Control Sendee. 


DATE 

ACTUAL 

MILEAGE 

SERVICED BY: 




7-41 




Part B: Owner Checks and Services 

Listed in this part are owner checks and services which 
should be performed at the intervals specified to help 
ensure the safety, dependability and emission control 
performance of your vehicle. 

Be sure any necessary repairs are completed at once. 
Whenever any fluids or lubricants are added to your 
vehicle, make sure they are the proper ones, as shown in 
Part D. 

At Each Fuel Fill 

It is important for you or a sen’ice station attendant to 
perform these underhood checks at each fuel fill. 

Engine Oil Level Check 

Check the engine oil level and add the proper oil if 
necessary. See “Engine Oil” in the Index for 
further details. 


7-42 


Engine Coolant Level Check 

(R) 

Check the engine coolant level and add DEX-COOL 
coolant mixture if necessary. See “Engine Coolant” in 
the Index for further details. 

Windshield Washer Fluid Level Check 

Check the windshield washer fluid level in the 
windshield washer tank and add the proper fluid if 
necessary. See “Windshield Washer Fluid” in the Index 
for further details. 

At Least Once a Month 

Tire Inflation Check 

Make sure tires are inflated to the correct pressures. 
Don’t forget to check your spare tire. See “Tires” in the 
Index for further details. 

Cassette Deck Service 

Clean cassette deck. Cleaning should be done every 
50 hours of tape play. See “Audio Systems” in the Index 
for further details. 


At Least Twice a Year 


Restraint System Check 

Make sure the safety belt reminder light and all your 
belts, buckles, latch plates, retractors and anchorages are 
working properly. Look for any other loose or damaged 
safety belt system parts. If you see anything that might 
keep a safety belt system from doing its job, have it 
repaired. Have any torn or frayed safety belts replaced. 

Also look for any opened or broken air bag coverings, 
and have them repaired or replaced. (The air bag system 
does not need regular maintenance.) 

Wiper Blade Check 

Inspect wiper blades for wear or cracking. Replace blade 
inserts that appear worn or damaged or that streak or 
miss areas of the windshield. Also see “Wiper Blades, 
Cleaning” in the Index. 


Spare Tire Check 

At least twice a year, after the monthly inflation check 
of the spare tire determines that the spare is inflated to 
the correct tire inflation pressure, make sure that the 
spare tire is stored securely. Push, pull, and then try to 
rotate or turn the tire. If it moves, use the wheel wrench 
to tighten the cable. See “Storing the Spare Tire and 
Tools” in the Index. 

Weatherstrip Lubrication 

Silicone grease on weatherstrips will make them last 
longer, seal better, and not stick or squeak. Apply 
silicone grease with a clean cloth. During very cold, 
damp weather more frequent application may be 
required. (See “Recommended Fluids and Lubricants” in 
the Index.) 

Manual Transmission Check 

Check the transmission fluid level; add if needed. See 
“Manual Transmission Fluid” in the Index. Check for 
leaks. A fluid leak is the only reason for fluid loss. Have 
the system inspected and repaired if needed. 


7-43 


Automatic Transmission Check 

Check the transmission fluid level; add if needed. See 
“Automatic Transmission Fluid” in the Index. A fluid 
loss may indicate a problem. Check the system and 
repair if needed. 

Hydraulic Clutch System Check 

Check the fluid level in the clutch reservoir. See 
“Hydraulic Clutch Fluid” in the Index. A fluid loss in 
this system could indicate a problem. Have the system 
inspected and repaired at once. 

At Least Four Times a Year 

Tailgate Lubrication Service 

Lubricate tailgate latch bolt, handle assembly pivot points, 
and hinges with lubricant recommended in Part D. 


7-44 


At Least Once a Year 

Key Lock Cylinders Service 

Lubricate the key lock cylinders with the lubricant 
specified in Part D. 

Body Lubrication Service 

Lubricate all body door and fuel door hinges, latches 
and locks including the glove box, console doors, the 
body hood, secondary latch, pivots, spring anchor, 
release pawl, and any moving seat hardware. Lubricate 
the hood safety lever pivot and prop rod pivot. Part D 
tells you what to use. More frequent lubrication may be 
required when exposed to a corrosive environment. 


Starter Switch Check 


A CAUTION: 


When you are doing this check, the vehicle could 
move suddenly. If it does, you or others could be 
injured. Follow the steps below. 


1 . Before you start, be sure you have enough room 
around the vehicle. 

2. Firmly apply both the parking brake (see “Parking 
Brake” in the Index if necessary) and the regular brake. 

NOTE: Do not use the accelerator pedal, and be 
ready to turn off the engine immediately if it starts. 

3. On automatic transmission vehicles, try to start the 
engine in each gear. The starter should work only in 
PARK (P) or NEUTRAL (N). If the starter works in 
any other position, your vehicle needs service. 

On manual transmission vehicles, put the shift lever 
in NEUTRAL (N), push the clutch down halfway 
and try to start the engine. The starter should work 
only when the clutch is pushed down all the way to 
the floor. If the starter works when the clutch isn’t 
pushed all the way down, your vehicle needs service. 


Automatic Transmission Shift Lock Control 
System Check 


A CAUTION: 


When you are doing this check, the vehicle could 
move suddenly. If it does, you or others could be 
injured. Follow the steps below. 


1. Before you start, be sure you have enough 
room around the vehicle. It should be parked on a 
level surface. 

2. Firmly apply the parking brake (see “Parking Brake” 
in the Index if necessary). 

NOTE: Be ready to apply the regular brake 
immediately if the vehicle begins to move. 

3. With the engine off, turn the key to the RUN 
position, but don’t start the engine. Without applying 
the regular brake, try to move the shift lever out of 
PARK (P) with normal effort. If the shift lever 
moves out of PARK (P), your vehicle needs service. 


7-45 


Ignition Transmission Lock Check 

While parked, and with the parking brake set, try to turn 
the ignition key to LOCK in each shift lever position. 

• With an automatic transmission, the key should turn 
to LOCK only when the shift lever is in PARK (P). 

• With a manual transmission, the key should turn to 
LOCK only when you press the key release button. 

On all vehicles, the key should come out only in LOCK. 

Parking Brake and Automatic Transmission 
PARK (P) Mechanism Check 


A CAUTION: 


When you are doing this check, your vehicle 
could begin to move. You or others could be 
injured and property could be damaged. Make 
sure there is room in front of your vehicle in case 
it begins to roll. Be ready to apply the regular 
brake at once should the vehicle begin to move. 


7-46 


Park on a fairly steep hill, with the vehicle facing 
downhill. Keeping your foot on the regular brake, set the 
parking brake. 

• To check the parking brake’s holding ability: 

With the engine running and transmission in 
NEUTRAL (N), slowly remove foot pressure from 
the regular brake pedal. Do this until the vehicle is 
held by the parking brake only. 

• To check the PARK (P) mechanism’s holding ability: 
With the engine running, shift to PARK (P). 

Then release the parking brake followed by the 
regular brake. 

Underbody Flushing Service 

At least every spring, use plain water to flush any 
corrosive materials from the underbody. Take care to 
clean thoroughly any areas where mud and other debris 
can collect. 


Part C: Periodic 
Maintenance Inspections 

Listed in this part are inspections and services which 
should be performed at least twice a year (for instance, 
each spring and fall). You should let your dealer’s 
sen’ice department or other qualified sendee center do 
these jobs. Make sure any necessary repairs are 
completed at once. 

Proper procedures to perform these services may be 
found in a service manual. See “Service and Owner 
Publications” in the Index. 

Steering, Suspension and Front Drive Axle 
Boot and Seal Inspection 

Inspect the front and rear suspension and steering 
system for damaged, loose or missing parts, signs of 
wear or lack of lubrication. Inspect the power steering 
lines and hoses for proper hook-up, binding, leaks, 
cracks, chafing, etc. Clean and then inspect the drive 
axle boot seals for damage, tears or leakage. Replace 
seals if necessary. 


Exhaust System Inspection 

Inspect the complete exhaust system. Inspect the body 
near the exhaust system. Look for broken, damaged, 
missing or out-of-position parts as well as open seams, 
holes, loose connections or other conditions which could 
cause a heat build-up in the floor pan or could let 
exhaust fumes into the vehicle. See “Engine Exhaust” in 
the Index. 

Engine Cooling System Inspection 

Inspect the hoses and have them replaced if they are 
cracked, swollen or deteriorated. Inspect all pipes, fittings 
and clamps; replace as needed. Clean the outside of the 
radiator and air conditioning condenser. To help ensure 
proper operation, a pressure test of the cooling system and 
pressure cap is recommended at least once a year. 


7-47 


Throttle System Inspection 

Inspect the throttle system for interference or binding, 
and for damaged or missing parts. Replace parts as 
needed. Replace any components that have high effort 
or excessive wear. Do not lubricate accelerator and 
cruise control cables. 

Drive Axle Service 

Check rear/front axle fluid level and add as needed. 
Check constant velocity joints and axle seals for leaking. 

Transfer Case 

(Four-Wheel Drive) Inspection 

Every 12 months or at oil change intervals, check front 
axle and transfer case and add lubricant when necessary. 
Check vent hose at transfer case for kinks and proper 
installation. More frequent lubrication may be required 
on off-road use. 


7-48 


Brake System Inspection 

Inspect the complete system. Inspect brake lines and 
hoses for proper hook-up, binding, leaks, cracks, 
chafing, etc. Inspect disc brake pads for wear and rotors 
for surface condition. Also inspect drum brake linings 
for wear and cracks. Inspect other brake parts, including 
drums, wheel cylinders, calipers, parking brake, etc. 
Check parking brake adjustment. You may need to have 
your brakes inspected more often if your driving habits 
or conditions result in frequent braking. 


Part D: Recommended Fluids 
and Lubricants 

NOTE: Fluids and lubricants identified below by 
name, part number or specification may be obtained 
from your dealer. 


USAGE 

FLUID/LUBRICANT 

Engine Oil 

Engine Oil with the American 
Petroleum Institute Certified For 
Gasoline Engines starburst symbol 
of the proper viscosity. To 
determine the preferred viscosity 
for your vehicle’s engine, see 
“Engine Oil” in the Index. 

Engine Coolant 

50/50 mixture of clean, drinkable 
water and use only GM 
Goodwrench® DEX-COOL® or 
Havoline® DEX-COOL® Coolant. 
See “Engine Coolant” in the Index. 


USAGE 

FLUID/LUBRICANT 

Hydraulic 

Brake System 

Delco Supreme 11® Brake Fluid 
(GM Part No. 12377967 or 
equivalent DOT-3 Brake Fluid). 

Windshield 

Washer Solvent 

GM Optikleen® Washer Solvent 
(GM Part No. 1051515) 
or equivalent. 

Hydraulic 

Clutch System 

Hydraulic Clutch Fluid (GM Part 

No. 12345347 or equivalent 

DOT-3 Brake Fluid). 

Power 

Steering System 

GM Power Steering Fluid 
(GM Part No. 1052884 - 1 pint, 
1050017 - 1 quart, or equivalent). 

Manual 
Transmission 
with V6 Engine 

Synchromesh Transmission Fluid 
(GM Part No. 12345349 
or equivalent). 


7-49 


USAGE 

FLUID/LUBRICANT 

Manual 
Transmission 
with L4 Engine 

Lriction Modified Synchromesh 
Transmission Lluid (GM Part 

No. 12377916). 

Automatic 

Transmission 

DEXRON®-III Automatic 
Transmission Fluid. 

Key Lock 
Cylinders 

Multi-Rirpose Lubricant, 

Superlube® (GM Part 

No. 12346241 or equivalent). 

Chassis 

Lubrication 

Chassis Lubricant (GM Part 

No. 12377985 or equivalent) or 
lubricant meeting requirements of 
NLGI # 2, Category LB or GC-LB. 

Lront 

Wheel Bearings 

Wheel Bearing Lubricant meeting 
requirements of NLGI # 2, 

Category GC or GC-LB (GM Part 
No. 1051344 or equivalent). 


7-50 


USAGE 

FLUID/LUBRICANT 

Front and Rear 
Axle (Standard 
Differential) 

SAE 80W-90 Axle Lubricant 
(GM Part No. 1052271 
or equivalent). 

Rear Axle 

(Locking 

Differential) 

Axle Lubricant; use only GM 

Part No. 1052271. Do not add 
friction modifier. 

Automatic 
Transfer Case 

AUTO-TRAK II Fluid 
(GM Part No. 12378508). 

Transfer Case 

Shift Lever 

Chassis Lubricant (GM Part 

No. 12377985 or equivalent) or 
lubricant meeting requirements of 
NLGI #2, Category LB or GC-LB. 

Rear Driveline 
Center Spline 
and Universal 
Joints 

Chassis Lubricant (GM Part 

No. 12377985 or equivalent) or 
lubricant meeting requirements of 
NLGI # 2, Category LB or GC-LB. 


USAGE 

FLUID/LUBRICANT 

Constant 

Velocity 

Universal Joint 

Chassis Lubricant (GM Part 

No. 12377985 or equivalent) or 
lubricant meeting requirements of 
NLGI # 2, Category LB or GC-LB. 

Clutch Pushrod 
to Clutch 

Fork Joint 

Chassis Lubricant (GM Part 

No. 12377985 or equivalent) or 
lubricant meeting requirements of 
NLGI # 2, Category LB or GC-LB. 

Hood Latch 
Assembly, 
Secondary Latch, 
Pivots, Spring 
Anchor and 
Release Pawl 

Lubriplate Lubricant Aerosol 
(GM Part No. 12346293 or 
equivalent) or lubricant meeting 
requirements of NLGI # 2, 

Category LB or GC-LB. 

Hood and 

Door Hinges 

Multi-Purpose Lubricant, 

Superlube® (GM Part 

No. 12346241 or equivalent). 


USAGE 

FLUID/LUBRICANT 

Fuel Filler 

Door and Rear 
Folding Seat 

Multi-Purpose Lubricant, 

Superlube® (GM Part 

No. 12346241 or equivalent). 

Tailgate Handle 
Pivot Points, 
Hinges, Latch 

Bolt and Linkage 

Multi-Purpose Lubricant, 

Superlube® (GM Part 

No. 12346241 or equivalent). 

Weatherstrip 

Conditioning 

Dielectric Silicone Grease (GM 

Part No. 12345579 or equivalent). 

Weatherstrip 

Squeaks 

Synthetic Grease with Teflon, 
Superlube® (GM Part 

No. 12371287 or equivalent). 


7-51 


Part E: Maintenance Record 

After the scheduled services are performed, record the 
date, odometer reading and who performed the service 
in the boxes provided after the maintenance interval. 


Any additional information from “Owner Checks and 
Services” or “Periodic Maintenance” can be added on 
the following record pages. Also, you should retain all 
maintenance receipts. Your owner information portfolio 
is a convenient place to store them. 


Maintenance Record 

DATE 

ODOMETER 

READING 

SERVICED BY 

MAINTENANCE PERFORMED 










































7-52 


Maintenance Record 

DATE 

ODOMETER 

READING 

SERVICED BY 

MAINTENANCE PERFORMED 






















































7-53 


Maintenance Record 

DATE 

ODOMETER 

READING 

SERVICED BY 

MAINTENANCE PERFORMED 






















































7-54 


Maintenance Record 

DATE 

ODOMETER 

READING 

SERVICED BY 

MAINTENANCE PERFORMED 






















































7-55 


Maintenance Record 

DATE 

ODOMETER 

READING 

SERVICED BY 

MAINTENANCE PERFORMED 






















































7-56 


Section 8 Customer Assistance Information 


Here you will find out how to contact Chevrolet if you need assistance. This section also tells you how to obtain 
service publications and how to report any safety defects. 


8-2 Customer Satisfaction Procedure 

8-4 Customer Assistance for Text Telephone 

(TTY) Users 

8-4 Customer Assistance Offices 

8-5 GM Mobility Program for Persons 

with Disabilities 

8-6 Chevrolet Roadside Assistance Program 

8-7 Canadian Roadside Assistance 

8-8 Courtesy Transportation 


8-9 Warranty Information 

8-10 Reporting Safety Defects to the United 

States Government 

8-10 Reporting Safety Defects to the 

Canadian Government 

8-11 Reporting Safety Defects to General Motors 
8-11 Ordering Owner Publications in Canada 


8-1 



Customer Satisfaction Procedure 


8-2 


Your satisfaction and goodwill are important to your 
dealer and to Chevrolet. Normally, any concerns with 
the sales transaction or the operation of your vehicle will 
be resolved by your dealer’s sales or service 
departments. Sometimes, however, despite the best 
intentions of all concerned, misunderstandings can 
occur. If your concern has not been resolved to your 
satisfaction, the following steps should be taken: 

STEP ONE -- Discuss your concern with a member of 
dealership management. Normally, concerns can be 
quickly resolved at that level. If the matter has already 
been reviewed with the sales, service or parts manager, 
contact the owner of the dealership or the 
general manager. 



STEP TWO — If after contacting a member of 
dealership management, it appears your concern cannot be 
resolved by the dealership without further help, contact 
the Chevrolet Customer Assistance Center by 
calling 1-800-222-1020. In Canada, contact GM of Canada 
Customer Communication Centre in Oshawa by calling 
1-800-263-3777 (English) or 1-800-263-7854 (French). 

We encourage you to call the toll-free number in order 
to give your inquiry prompt attention. Please have the 
following information available to give the Customer 
Assistance Representative: 

• Vehicle Identification Number (This is available 
from the vehicle registration or title, or the plate 
at the top left of the instrument panel and visible 
through the windshield.) 

• Dealership name and location 

• Vehicle delivery date and present mileage 


When contacting Chevrolet, please remember that your 
concern will likely be resolved at a dealer’s facility. That 
is why we suggest you follow Step One first if you have 
a concern. 

STEP THREE — Both General Motors and your dealer 
are committed to making sure you are completely 
satisfied with your new vehicle. However, if you 
continue to remain unsatisfied after following the 
procedure outlined in Steps One and Two, file with the 
GM/BBB Auto Line Program to enforce any additional 
rights you may have. Canadian owners refer to your 
Warranty and Owner Assistance Information booklet 
for information on the Canadian Motor Vehicle 
Arbitration Plan (CAMVAP). 


8-3 


The BBB Auto Line Program is an out of court program 
administered by the Council of Better Business Bureaus to 
settle automotive disputes regarding vehicle repairs or the 
interpretation of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty. 
Although you are required to resort to this informal dispute 
resolution program prior to filing any court action, use of 
the program is free of charge and your case will generally 
be heard within 40 days. If you do not agree with the 
decision given in your case, you may reject it and proceed 
with any other venue for relief available to you. 

You may contact the BBB using the toll-free telephone 
number or write them at the following address: 

BBB Auto Line 

Council of Better Business Bureaus, Inc. 

4200 Wilson Boulevard 

Suite 800 

Arlington, VA 22203-1804 

Telephone: 1-800-955-5100 

This program is available in all 50 states and the District 
of Columbia. Eligibility is limited by vehicle age, 
mileage and other factors. General Motors reserves the 
right to change eligibility limitations and/or discontinue 
its participation in this program. 


8-4 


Customer Assistance for Text 
Telephone (TTY) Users 

To assist customers who are deaf, hard of hearing, or 
speech-impaired and who use Text Telephones (TTYs), 
Chevrolet has TTY equipment available at its Customer 
Assistance Center. Any TTY user can communicate with 
Chevrolet by dialing: 1-800-833-CHEV (2438). (TTY 
users in Canada can dial 1-800-263-3830.) 

Customer Assistance Offices 

Chevrolet encourages customers to call the toll-free 
number for assistance. If a U.S. customer wishes to write 
to Chevrolet, the letter should be addressed to Chevrolet’s 
Customer Assistance Center. 

United States 

Chevrolet Motor Division 
Chevrolet Customer Assistance Center 
P.O. Box 7047 
Troy, MI 48007-7047 

1-800-222-1020 

1-800-833-2438 (For Text Telephone devices (TTYs)) 
Roadside Assistance: 1-800-CHEV-USA® (243-8872) 


Canada 

General Motors of Canada Limited 
Customer Communication Centre, 163-005 
1908 Colonel Sam Drive 
Oshawa, Ontario L1H 8P7 

1-800-263-3777 (English) 

1-800-263-7854 (French) 

1-800-263-3830 (For Text Telephone devices (TTYs)) 
Roadside Assistance: 1-800-268-6800 

All Overseas Locations 

GMODC - Customer Communication Centre 
169-007 

1908 Colonel Sam Drive 
Oshawa, Ontario L1H 8P7 

Telephone: 905-644-4112 
Fax: 905-644-4866 

Caribbean Numbers 

1-800-496-9992 (English) Puerto Rico 
1-800-496-9993 (Spanish) Puerto Rico 
1-800-751-4135 (English) Dominican Republic 
1-800-751-4136 (Spanish) Dominican Republic 
1-800-496-9994 U.S. Virgin Islands 
1-800-389-0009 Bahamas 

1-800-534-0122 Bermuda, Barbados, Antigua & B.V.I. 


If toll free service is not available in the Caribbean, 
call Puerto Rico 1-787-763-1315. 


GM Mobility Program for Persons 
with Disabilities 


This program, available to 
qualified applicants, can 
reimburse you up to $ 1 ,000 
toward aftermarket driver or 
passenger adaptive 
equipment you may require 
for your vehicle (hand 
controls, wheelchair/scooter 
lifts, etc.). 


This program can also provide you with free resource 
information, such as area driver assessment centers and 
mobility equipment installers. The program is available 
for a limited period of time from the date of vehicle 
purchase/lease. See your dealer for more details or call 
the GM Mobility Assistance Center at 1-800-323-9935. 
Text telephone (TTY) users, call 1-800-833-9935. 

GM of Canada also has a Mobility Program. 

Call 1-800-GM-DRIVE (463-7483) for details. 

When calling from outside Canada, please dial 
1-905-644-3063. All TTY users call 1-800-263-3830. 



8-5 


Chevrolet Roadside Assistance Program 



To enhance Chevrolet’s strong commitment to customer 
satisfaction, Chevrolet is excited to announce the 
establishment of the Chevrolet Roadside Assistance 
Center. As the owner of a 2000 Chevrolet, membership 
in Roadside Assistance is free. 

Roadside Assistance is available 24 hours a day, 

365 days a year, by calling 1-800-CHEV-USA (243-8872). 
This toll-free number will provide you over-the-phone 
roadside assistance with minor mechanical problems. 


8-6 


If your problem cannot be resolved over the 
phone, our advisors have access to a nationwide network 
of dealer recommended service providers. Roadside 
membership is free; however some services may incur costs. 

Roadside offers two levels of service to the customer, 
Basic Care and Courtesy Care: 

• Toll-free number, 1-800-CHEV-USA (243-8872) 

• Free towing for warranty repairs 

• Basic over-the-phone technical advice 

• Available dealer services at reasonable costs (i.e., 
wrecker services, locksmith/key service, glass 
repair, etc.) 

ROADSIDE Courtesy Care PROVIDES: 

• Roadside Basic Care services (as outlined previously) 
Plus: 

• FREE Non- Warranty Towing (to the closest dealer 
from a legal roadway) 

• FREE Locksmith/Key Service (when keys are lost 
on the road or locked inside) 

• FREE Flat Tire Service (spare installed on the road) 

• FREE Jump Start (at home or on the road) 

• FREE Fuel Delivery ($5 of fuel delivered on 
the road) 



Chevrolet offers Courtesy Transportation for customers 
needing warranty service. Courtesy Transportation will 
be offered in conjunction with the coverage provided by 
the Bumper-to-Bumper New Vehicle Limited Warranty 
to eligible purchasers of 2000 Chevrolet passenger cars 
and light duty trucks. (Please see your selling dealer 
for details.) 

Note: Courtesy Care is available to retail and retail lease 
customers operating 2000 and newer Chevrolet vehicles 
for a period of 3 years/36,000 miles (60 000 km), 
whichever occurs first. All Courtesy Care services must 
be pre-arranged by Chevrolet Roadside or dealer 
service management. 

Basic Care and Courtesy Care are not part of or 
included in the coverage provided by the New Vehicle 
Limited Warranty. Chevrolet reserves the right to 
modify or discontinue Basic Care and Courtesy Care 
at any time. 

For complete program details, see your Chevrolet dealer 
to obtain a Roadside Assistance Center brochure. 

The Roadside Assistance Center uses companies that 
will provide you with quality and priority service. When 
roadside services are required, our advisors will explain 
any payment obligations that may be incurred for 
utilizing outside services. 


For prompt assistance when calling, please have the 
following available to give to the advisor: 

• Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) 

• License plate number 

• Vehicle color 

• Vehicle location 

• Telephone number where you can be reached 

• Vehicle mileage 

• Description of problem 

Please refer to the Roadside Assistance brochure 
inside your owner information portfolio for full 
program details. 

Canadian Roadside Assistance 

Vehicles purchased in Canada have an extensive 
Roadside Assistance program accessible from anywhere 
in Canada or the United States. Please refer to the 
separate brochure provided by the dealer or call 
1-800-268-6800 for emergency services. 


8-7 


Courtesy Transportation 

Chevrolet has always exemplified quality and value in 
its offering of motor vehicles. To enhance your 
ownership experience, we and our participating dealers 
are proud to offer Courtesy Transportation, a customer 
support program for new vehicles. 

The Courtesy Transportation program is offered to retail 
purchase/lease customers in conjunction with the 
Bumper-to-Bumper coverage provided by the New 
Vehicle Limited Warranty. Several transportation 
options are available when warranty repairs are 
required. This will reduce your inconvenience during 
warranty repairs. 

Plan Ahead When Possible 

When your vehicle requires warranty service, you 
should contact your dealer and request an appointment. 
By scheduling a service appointment and advising your 
service consultant of your transportation needs, your 
dealer can help minimize your inconvenience. If your 
vehicle cannot be scheduled into the service department 
immediately, keep driving it until it can be scheduled for 
service, unless, of course, the problem is safety-related. 
If it is, please call your dealership, let them know this, 
and ask for instructions. 


8-8 


If the dealer requests that you simply drop the vehicle 
off for service, you are urged to do so as early in the 
work day as possible to allow for same day repair. 

Transportation Options 

Warranty service can generally be completed while you 
wait. However, if you are unable to wait Chevrolet helps 
minimize your inconvenience by providing several 
transportation options. Depending on the circumstances, 
your dealer can offer you one of the following: 

Shuttle Service 

Participating dealers can provide you with shuttle service to 
get you to your destination with minimal interruption of 
your daily schedule. This includes a one way shuttle ride to a 
destination up to 10 miles from the dealership. 

Public Transportation or Fuel Reimbursement 

If your vehicle requires overnight warranty repairs, 
reimbursement up to $30 per day (five days maximum) 
may be available for the use of public transportation 
such as taxi or bus. In addition, should you arrange 
transportation through a friend or relative, 
reimbursement for reasonable fuel expenses up to 
$10 per day (five day maximum) may be available. 
Claim amounts should reflect actual costs and be 
supported by original receipts. 


Courtesy Rental Vehicle 

When your vehicle is unavailable due to overnight 
warranty repairs, your dealer may arrange to provide 
you with a courtesy rental vehicle or reimburse you for a 
rental vehicle you obtained, at actual cost, up to a 
maximum of $30.00 per day supported by receipts. This 
requires that you sign and complete a rental agreement 
and meet state, local and rental vehicle provider 
requirements. Requirements vary and may include 
minimum age requirements, insurance coverage, credit 
card, etc. You are responsible for fuel usage charges and 
may also be responsible for taxes, levies, usage fees, 
excessive mileage or rental usage beyond the 
completion of the repair. 

Generally it is not possible to provide a like-vehicle as a 
courtesy rental. 

Additional Program Information 

Courtesy Transportation is available during the 
Bumper-to-Bumper warranty coverage period, 
but it is not part of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty. 

A separate booklet entitled “Warranty and Owner 
Assistance Information” furnished with each new 
vehicle provides detailed warranty coverage information. 


Courtesy Transportation is available only at 
participating dealers and all program options, such as 
shuttle service, may not be available at every dealer. 
Please contact your dealer for specific information about 
availability. All Courtesy Transportation arrangements 
will be administered by appropriate dealer personnel. 

Canadian Vehicles: For warranty repairs during the 
Complete Vehicle Coverage period of the General 
Motors of Canada New Vehicle Limited Warranty, 
alternative transportation may be available under the 
Courtesy Transportation Program. Please consult your 
dealer for details. 

General Motors reserx’es the right to unilaterally modify, 
change or discontinue Courtesy Transportation at any time 
and to resolve all questions of claim eligibility pursuant to the 
terms and conditions described herein at its sole discretion. 

Warranty Information 

Your vehicle comes with a separate warranty booklet 
that contains detailed warranty information. 


8-9 


REPORTING SAFETY DEFECTS 
TO THE UNITED STATES 
GOVERNMENT 

If you believe that your vehicle has a defect which could 
cause a crash or could cause injury or death, you should 
immediately inform the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration (NHTSA), in addition to 
notifying General Motors. 

If NHTSA receives similar complaints, it may open an 
investigation, and if it finds that a safety defect exists in 
a group of vehicles, it may order a recall and remedy 
campaign. However, NHTSA cannot become involved 
in individual problems between you, your dealer or 
General Motors. 

To contact NHTSA, you may either call the Auto Safety 
Hotline toll-free at 1-800-424-9393 (or 366-0123 in the 
Washington, D.C. area) or write to: 

NHTSA, U.S. Department of Transportation 
Washington, D.C. 20590 

You can also obtain other information about motor 
vehicle safety from the hotline. 


8-10 


REPORTING SAFETY DEFECTS TO 
THE CANADIAN GOVERNMENT 


If you live in Canada, and you believe that your vehicle 
has a safety defect, you should immediately notify 
Transport Canada, in addition to notifying General 
Motors of Canada Limited. You may write to: 


Transport Canada 
330 Sparks Street 
Tower C 

Ottawa, Ontario K1A 0N5 


REPORTING SAFETY DEFECTS 
TO GENERAL MOTORS 

In addition to notifying NHTSA (or Transport Canada) 
in a situation like this, we certainly hope you’ll notify 
us. Please call us at 1-800-222-1020, or write: 

Chevrolet Motor Division 
Chevrolet Customer Assistance Center 
P.O. Box 7047 
Troy, MI 48007-7047 

In Canada, please call us at 1-800-263-3777 (English) 
or 1-800-263-7854 (French). Or, write: 

General Motors of Canada Limited 
Customer Communication Centre, 163-005 
1908 Colonel Sam Drive 
Oshawa, Ontario L1H 8P7 


Ordering Owner Publications 
in Canada 

Owner’s manuals are available for purchase for all 
current and most past model General Motors vehicles. 

The toll-free telephone number for ordering information 
in Canada is 1-800-668-5539. 


8-11 


2000 CHEVROLET SERVICE PUBLICATIONS ORDERING INFORMATION 


The following publications covering the operation and servicing of your vehicle can be purchased by filling out 
the Service Publication Order Form in this book and mailing it in with your check, money order, 
or credit card information to Helm, Incorporated (address below.) 


CURRENT PUBLICATIONS FOR 2000 CHEVROLET 


SERVICE MANUALS 

Service Manuals have the diagnosis and repair information 
on engines, transmission, axle, suspension, brakes, 
electrical, steering, body, etc. 

RETAIL SELL PRICE: $120.00 

TRANSMISSION, TRANSAXLE, TRANSFER CASE 
UNIT REPAIR MANUAL 

This manual provides information on unit repair service 
procedures, adjustments and specifications for the 
2000 GM transmissions, transaxles and transfer cases. 
RETAIL SELL PRICE: $50.00 

SERVICE BULLETINS 

Service Bulletins give technical service information needed 
to knowledgeably service General Motors cars and trucks. 
Each bulletin contains instructions to assist in the 
diagnosis and service of your vehicle. 

PLEASE COMPLETE THE ORDER FORM SHOWN ON 
THE FOLLOWING PAGE AND MAIL TO: 

Helm, Incorporated • P.O. Box 07130 • Detroit, Ml 48207 


OWNER’S INFORMATION 

Owner publications are written directly for Owners and 
intended to provide basic operational information about the 
vehicle. The owner’s manual will include the Maintenance 
Schedule for all models. 

In-Portfolio: Includes a Portfolio, Owner’s Manual and 
Warranty Booklet. 

RETAIL SELL PRICE: $20.00 

Without Portfolio: Owner’s Manual only. 

RETAIL SELL PRICE: $15.00 

CURRENT & PAST MODEL ORDER FORMS 

Service Publications are available for current and past 
model GM vehicles. To request an order form, please 
specify year and model name of the vehicle. 

OR ORDER TOLL FREE: 1-800-551-4123 

Monday-Friday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM Eastern Time 

For Credit Card Orders Only (VISA-MasterCard-Discover) 






ORDER TOLL FREE 

(NOTE: For Credit Card Holders Only) 

1 - 800 - 551-4123 

(Monday-Friday 8:00 AM - 6:00 PM EST) 
FAX Orders Only 1-313-865-5927 


Orders will be mailed within 1 0 days of receipt. Please allow adequate time for postal 
service. If further information is needed, write to the address shown below or call 
1 -800-551 -41 23. Material cannot be returned for credit without packing slip with return 
information within 30 days of delivery. On returns, a re-stocking fee may be applied 
against the original order. 



ITEM DESCRIPTION 


Service Manual 


Car & Light Truck 
Transmission Unit Repair 


Owner's Manual In Portfolio 


VEHICLE MODEL 


NAME 


PRICE 

EACH* 


NOTE: Dealers and Companies please provide dealer or company name, and also the 
name of the person to whose attention the shipment should be sent. 

Mail completed order form to: 

HELM, INCORPORATED • P.O. Box 07130 • Detroit, Ml 48207 
For purchases outside U.S.A. please write to the above address for quotation. 


(CUSTOMER’S NAME) 


□ Check or Money 
Order payable to 
Helm, Inc. (USA funds 
only — do not send cash.) 

1 1 MasterCard 

EH VISA 

□ Discover 


TOTAL MATERIAL 


Michigan Purchasers 
add 6% sales tax 

U.S. Order Processing 

Canadian Postage 
(See Note Below) 

GRAND TOTAL 




O (city) 


(STREET ADDRESS— NO P.O. BOX NUMBERS) 


DAYTIME TELEPHONE NO. 


( ) 


Account 
Number: L 

Expiration 
Date mo/yr: 


TOTAL 

PRICE 



mm 


Check here if your billing address 
is different from your shipping 
address shown. 


CUSTOMER SIGNATURE 


GM-CHE-ORD99 


‘(Prices are subject to change without notice and without incurring 
obligation. Allow ample time for delivery.) 


Note to Canadian Customers: All listed prices are quoted in U.S. funds. Canadian residents 
are to make checks payable in U.S. funds. To cover Canadian postage, add $11 .50 plus the 
U.S. order processing. 





























