Take your pick. 



CompuServe 



Now CompuServe offers you 
two different member options. 



When you run a computer information service as big as CompuServe, you learn a lot about giving 
people choices. Well, we're at it again. 

As of March 1, 1992, we'll be offering two member billing options. And you'll be able to pick the one 
that's right for you. 



Option # 1: 



The tried and true. The current CompuServe billing method of "pay as 
you go" will still be available. It offers the flexibility you're used to, allowing 
you to range through all of our hundreds of services, picking and choosing 
the ones you want, and spending as much time as you like with each. 

This is the billing service you're using now: you're billed in one-minute increments — sort of like the 
phone company does it. 



Option 1: 



A flat rate for basic services. You'll receive unlimited connect time to 
access basic offerings, and there will be pay-as-you-go rates for 
extended services. 



For only $7.95 a month, you can use these services as long as you like, whenever you like: 

News, Sports, Weather: Associated Press Online 

Hourly News Summaries, Sports, Entertainment, 

Business News 
Accu- Weather® Maps/Reports 
U.S. Weather Service Reports 



Reference Library: 



Shopping: 



Entertainment 
And Games: 



Financial Information: 



Grolier's Academic American Encyclopedia 
Peterson's College Database 
HealthNet 

The Electronic Mall 8 
Consumer Reports 

Shopper's Advantage® — A Discount Shopping Club 
Classified Ads (Free to read; placement costs extra) 

Roger Ebeit's Movie Reviews 
Science Trivia Quiz 
The Grolier Whiz Quiz 
ShowBizQuiz 
CastleQuest 
BlackDragon 
Classic Adventure 
Enhanced Adventure 
Hangman 

Current Stock Quotes 
Issue/Symbol Reference 
Mortgage Calculator 



Continued on back cover. 



Britain Revisited: 
UK Forum's Techy 
Pub Talk-p. 20 

Making Mutual 
Decisions-p.30 

The Brain-Strain 
Mensa Forum-p.38 



MARCH 1992 $2.50 





INFLATION & 
RECESSION 

Plus 

HOW TO GET YOUR 
MONEY'S WORTH FROM 
THE LOCAL SCHOOLS 

MONEY FORECAST: 
FOR STOCKS, BONDS 
AND RATES wis 




Fund cfilal Umei Ban' 
"For mjitiHin Diet), 
told and nn-ciupoi 




Now Available On CompuServe. 



Planning for your financial future has just gotten easier. 

CompuServe's Money Magazine Financial Information Center helps you identify opportunities that 
meet your personal investing needs. Online mutual fund screening lets you quickly sift through over 
1 ,500 mutual funds based on criteria that's important to you — including investment objectives, returns 
over various time horizons, fund manager fees and expenses, and more. You can take advantage of 
insights and practical advice from the MONEY editorial staff, participate in forum discussions, and get 
software support for WealthBuilder™ by MONEY Magazine. 

The Money Magazine Financial Information Center, available on CompuServe. Type GO MONEYMAG 
at any ! prompt. And start planning for your financial future. COIllpUSGrVG 



MONEY is a registered trademark of The Time Inc. Magazine Company. 



WE MAY LOOK LIKE THE OTHERS, BUT. 




WE CUT OUT THE MIDDLE MAN — 
SO YOU GET LOWER PRICES 



You may think we're just another shopping service, but look 
again,..Shoppers Advantage®On The Electronic Mall® gets you the 
best price — 10% to 50% off the manufacturer's suggested list 
price — because we cut out the middle man. 

Our network goes right to the source — over 250,000 top- 
quality household and personal products from manufacturers like 
Maytag, Panasonic, GE, Nintendo — so there's nothing between 
you and the ultimate name-brand discounts except your modem. 

How many other shopping services can boast a Low Price 
Guarantee that protects your savings? If you find the same item for 
less, you'll be refunded the difference* 

And... when others try to sell you more warranty, we'll give you 
extra coverage — Free. The warranty on any item you buy through 
Shoppers Advantage On The Electronic Mall is automatically 
extended to two full years from the date of purchase.* 

But just because we cut out the middle man doesn't mean 
there's no one to help you if you need live assistance. Simply call 
our convenient toll-free number, 1-800-843-7777**, and a 
knowledgeable Shopping Consultant will be at your service. 



So, cut out the middle man. Try Shoppers Advantage On The 
Electronic Mall for all your one-stop shopping. Enter GO SAC, or call 
us now at 1-800-843-7777 to get 3 months of savings for only $1 . 

Then, unless you notify us otherwise, we'll continue your benefits 
for a full year and bill you only $39. If you're not completely satisfied, 
you can cancel your membership during the first year for a full refund 
That's right..a full refund. After all, looks are deceiving. We said we 
were different, and we are — in ways that help you save. 

NTRODUCTORY OFFER: 3 MONTHS FOR $1 

* Condi&ons of our Low Price Guarantee and Automatic TWo-Year Warranty Protection 
can be read online. 

** Hours: Monday -Friday, 9 am- 11 pm; Saturday and Sunday, 9 am -6pm (EI). 

SHOPPERS ADVANTAGE* On The Bectronic Mall* is a registered service ma* of, 
and provided by, CUC International Inc. 
The Electronic Mall* is a registered 
trademark of CompuServe Inc. 

Shoppers Advantage 

© 1991, CUC International Inc. ^^^^ ON Q^ofROMC MALL'trnK 

CSDAS3 



10 



20 



23 
26 



30 



34 



38 



41 



CONTENTS 




FEATURES 



Feature Story 

Risking Business in the Nineties 

The headlines haven't exactly boded well for entrepreneurs. But to those with a small 
business in mind, and with what's left of the competition running in survival mode, 
the shakeout may be an ideal time to get going. Includes: Resources for locating 
prospects; expert tips on mindset and money; startup files; the new Biz*File; a review 
of home office gadgetry. 



Computing Services 

Britain's Royal (Message) Subjects 

The UK Computing Forum serves its purpose of supporting motherland-made 
hardware and the UK quirks of US machines. Its main attractions, though, are its 
odd-couple sysops from opposite ends of Britain's political spectrum and pub-talk 
threads that give new meaning to "topic drift." Also: UK files. 
Eight Bits of History: AtariNet logs its 10th year online providing a refuge for devoted 
followers of computerdom's underdog machine. 

Pushing Shareware's Button: The man who first tried the software distribution 
method sizes up the virtues of virtually giving it away. Also: PC vendor forums. 

Money Matters 

Making It on Mutual Funds 

Low interest rates and a sluggish economy make these diversified investment 
poolings the only means for the average investor to earn a reasonable long-term 
return. Here's how to approach the thousands of funds out there and find the ones 
that match your objectives. Plus: Using Money Magazine's FundWatch Online. 



'Crab-Claw' Wine Country 

Less than 100 miles from the Manhattan skyline is the North Fork of Long Island, 
where a dozen or so wineries along a 20-mile stretch of road are giving the Californian 
and French producers a run for their prize medallions. Also: Bacchus Wine Forum's 
"Palate Calibration" conferences. 

Personal Business 

The Smart Home 

Feeling particularly intelligent today? You'll be at case in the Mensa Forum, an 
online sanctuary for members (and, yes, non-members) of the famed elite organiza- 
tion of brainiacs. Also: Browsing Mensa's libraries; an abbreviated Mensa quiz. 
Doorway to the World: The hearing-impaired and deaf members of a Disability 
Forum section appease their appetite for information and find that with technology, 
a loss of sense yields no sense of loss. 




Bad times as a good time to get in— p. 10 




Putting nest eggs in many baskets— p. 30 



Too Hot to Print 

pV Catch computer industry news as it hap- 
pens, read special reports, commentary and 
more product reviews. You'll find it only in 
Online Today, a daily updated newspaper. 

Behind the Screens OLT-130 

CompuServe This Week OLT-50 

Online Today Guide OLT-351 

Product Reviews OLT-200 

File Listing Updates OLT-600 

Today's News OLT-90 



DEPARTMENTS 



3 Dear Reader 

4 Letters 
6 Monitor 



44 Hardware and Software Reviews 

46 Book Reviews 

48 Update: Last-Minute News 



CompuServe Magazine (ISSN 0891-4672) is published monthly in the United States of America by CompuServe 
Incorporated, 5000 Arlington Centre Blvd., Columbus, OH 43220. Canadian GST registration No. R127010582. 



COVER ILLUSTRATION BY KAREN ST0LPER 



2 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Dear Reader 



GmpuServe 



CompuServe* Magazine " r March 1992 

Volume II Number 3 
Publisher 
Calvin F. Hamrick III 
Editorial Director 
Richard A. Baker 
Editor 
Douglas G. Branstetter 
Art Director 
Thorn Misiak 
Managing Editor 
Kassie Rose 
Senior Editor 
Mary Mitchell 
Assistant Editors 
Christopher J, Galvin, Michele D. Kinnamon 
Design Coordinator 
Dorothy Hogan 
Production Coordinator 
Drew W. Holland 
Senior Writer 
Cathryn Conroy 
Contributing Editors 
Charles E. Bowen, Hardin Brothers, 
John Edwards, Holly G. Miller, 
Michael Naver, Mike Pietruk 
Ernest E. Mau 1982-1990 
Copy Editor 

Kacy Cook 
Proofreaders 
Christine Harrington, Margaret Stokes 
Electronic Publishing Supervisor 
Susan Toombs 
Production Assistant 
Jody Myers 
Editorial Assistant 
Bobbi Dominick 

ADVERTISING 

Associate Publisher 

Peter A. Scott, 5000 Arlington Centre Blvd., 
Columbus. OH 43220; 614/457-8600; 70003,3731 
National Sales Manager/Electronic Mall 
Keith Arnold 
614/457-8600 
Mid Atlantic 
Jennifer Stothers 
212/366-0393 
New England and Southeast 
David Koeneman 
614/457-8600 
Midwest and West 
Tom Emmons 
614/457-8600 

EUROPEAN OFFICES 



United Kingdom 

15/16 Lower Park Row 
TO Box 676 
Bristol BS99 1YN 
Tel. 0800 289 458 (free inside UK) 
(441 272 255111 (outside UK) 
Germany 
CompuServe GmbH 
Jahnstrasse 2 
D-8025 Unterhaching/Munich 
Tel. 0130-3732 (Sales, freephone within Germany) 
0130-4643 (Support, freephone within Germany) 
155 3 1 79 (free inside Switzerland) 
(49) 89-66550-222 (outside Germany and Switzerland) 
CompuServe User ID number: 70006,101 



President and Chief Executive Officer, Maurice 
A. Cox; Executive Vice President, Information 
Services, Barry F. Berkov; Executive Vice Presi- 
dent, Support Services and Chief Technical 
Officer, Alexander B. Trevor; Executive Vice Presi- 
dent, Network Services, Robert J. Massey; Senior 
Vice President, Market Planning and Devel- 
opment, John E. Meier; Vice President, Product 
Marketing, David Eastburn; Vice President, Human 
Resources, Judy S. Reinhard; Vice President, Ad- 
ministration, Herbert J. Kahn. 

Copyright®1992 by CompuServe Intorporated, an H&R Block Company. 
All rights reserved. Contents may not he reproduced in whole or in part 
without written permission of publisher. CompuServe Magazine (ISSN 
0891-4672) is a registered trademark of CompuServe Incorporated. 
Printed in USA by R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago. Subscriptions: 
United States, AFO— $30 one year; Canada and elsewhere $40 one 
year. Single copies $2.50 in US, AFO and Canada. Telephone: 614/457- 
8600. CompuServe Magazine assumes no responsibility for return or 
safety of unsolicited matter. Direct editorial correspondence to: Editor, 
CompuServe Magazine, P.O. Box 20212, Columbus, OH 43220. 



By definition, an entrepreneur is one who can seize opportunity out of adversity or 
even misfortune. These days, it seems there is plenty of adversity and misfortune to 
go around, especially when one looks at the uncertain condition of many economies in the 
developed world. That's why many experts say if you can summon your courage and take 
on an entrepreneur's mindset of self-reliance, this may the one of the best times to start 
or expand your small business. 

Sound too far-fetched? Consider this: someday soon, you may not have much of a 
choice. In a growing number of cases, becoming a contract worker or consultant — or 
starting up a business — may be the only viable alternative for many unemployed and 
soon-to-be-unemployed professional salaried workers. In the United States it is predicted 
that many comfortable, long-term salaried jobs will be eliminated forever by the end of 
the decade. Many firms looking to cut costs will shed all but the most essential workers 
for the core business and hire out support services on an as-needed basis. Even for those 
employees who remain, the health, retirement and other fringe benefits that have made 
a "company job" so secure in previous years will be greatly reduced or eliminated. The 
upshot: fewer traditional jobs, but plenty of work for free-lancers, contract workers, 
consultants and small business people — entrepreneurs like you who are ready to take 
advantage of change. 

In this month's cover feature beginning on page 10, we examine the opportunities that 
abound for those striking out on their own (or considering it), or looking to expand an 
existing home-based business in the current economic climate. We show you how to "get 
the right attitude," how to finance your business, where the best online resources are, 
how to find clients worldwide, how to manage change and global growth in a new or 
expanding business — even how to set up your office. And, as always, there are plenty of 
examples of CompuServers who have already taken the path to self-reliance and can 
provide you with advice and inspiration. 



With the CompuServe Information Service's rapid global expansion, it's not surprising 
that national and regional groups are beginning to form a distinguished presence online 
and carve out their own niches in the forums. Lately, some of the most vibrant 
participants just happen to sign on from the United Kingdom. Many British congregate 
in the UK Computing Forum, headed up by a colorful pair of sysops known as Steve 
Manners and Andy Johnson. 

Some say the UK Forum is more like a British pub for people who also happen to be 
interested in computers. Others might think that with the Right Honourable Gentlemen 
Manners (a Margaret Thatcher Conservative) and Johnson (a Labour Liberal) exchang- 
ing political barbs, they've somehow stumbled into the crossfire of a table-thumping 
debate in the House of Commons. 

Whether you're British or not, you're sure to enjoy the spark of this up-and-coming 
forum, and we invite you to take a look at it and all things CompuBritish beginning on 
page 20. 



Next month your CompuServe Magazine will be a little heftier than usual. The added 
bulk is a resource guide to all services and GO commands on the Information Service. A 
comprehensive listing of CompuServe products and services is frequently requested in 
magazine readership surveys. We are happy to offer this feature and hope you will find 
it useful. 




Douglas G. Branstetter 

Editor 



MARCH 1992 ■ 3 



Letters 



Chrysler or Capricorn 

"Chrysler or Capricorn" (Monitor, Nov. 
1991, p. 6) and the subsequent letters 
("Math Bozo's Redux," Jan. 1991, p. 4) con- 
cern the same logic problem recently high- 
lighted in Marilyn vos Savant's "Ask 
Marilyn" column in Parade magazine. These 
columns received extensive coverage in the 
US press, such as the New York Times, 
which reinforced the public's fascination 
with the puzzle. 

It is, by now, well established that the 
correct answer is that the odds improve 
from l-in-3 to 2-in-3 by switching. It is also 
well established that few people get the 
answer right the first time. Intuition is 
confounded because the host doesn't act 
randomly; he opens a door that he knows 
not to reveal the prize. 

The answer is easier to appreciate if the 
game show had a million doors, only one of 
which would hide the car. (The rest would 
hide goats.) The contestant's odds of picking 
the correct door would be 1 -in- 1,000 ,000. 

If the host then opened 999,998 doors he 
knew did not hide the prize, and gave the 
contestant the chance to switch to the one 
remaining door, the contestant should jump 
at it. The odds of his first guess being correct 
are still one in a million. However, the 
helpful host has shown which door among 
the remaining 999,999 possibilities would 
hide the car if the original door didn't. 
Jonathan E. Hardis 
Gaithersburg, Md. 

It seems the first reader, Donny Johnson 
of Cedar Park, Texas, has a correct under- 
standing of the problem. I'm sure a lot of 
other readers are also confused with the 
problem. They are not alone. The problem 
seems simple and it is, if you have a clear 
and correct grasp of probability. 

If you play and never switch, most people 
would agree you should win 1/3 of the time 
(thus losing 2/3 of the time). When you 
switch every time, you are turning what 
would have been a win into a loss or a loss 
into a win. You used to lose 2/3 of the time; 
now you win 2/3 of the time. 

I have uploaded a Gw-Basic program 
(GAME.BAS) in zipped format in Library 3, 
"To The Editors," of the Online Today Read- 
ers' Forum. It should be helpful for experi- 
menting with the situation and in reconcil- 
ing one's theories with what actually 
happens. 

Fred lobst 

Mathematics, B.S. 

Pennsylvania State University 

Danville, Pa. 



The Ultimate Orientation 

I enjoyed Robin Garr's article regarding 
Japan ("The Ultimate Orientation," Nov. 
1991, p. 34-37), but I need to point out that 
the photo captions are incorrect. 

The picture on page 35 is not of the Tokyo 
airport but a picture of Shibuya station in 
Tokyo. Second, the shoes pictured on page 
36 are not sandals but "zouris." They are not 
worn at home. We Japanese wear zouris 
only at special occasions. 

Dr. Yasuhiro Sugiyama 
Seattle, Wash. 

I've just finished reading the excellent 
article "The Ultimate Orientation." As a 
fluent speaker and translator of Japanese 
who lived in Japan for more than 10 years, I 
was impressed at the accuracy and rele- 
vance of the information in the article. 

I did, however, notice a couple of inaccu- 
racies. The picture on page 35 ("Strange 
faces, signs, Tokyo airport") is, in fact, a 
picture of Shibuya railway station in down- 
town Tokyo, not Narita airport. (I used to 
live on one of the train lines that run out of 
Shibuya and walked through the area pic- 
tured almost every day for seven years.) 

The sandals shown in the picture on page 
36 ("Sandals, not street shoes, are worn at 
home: Japanese custom") are actually worn 
as street shoes. Note that they are shown 
resting on paving stones, not the wooden 
floors usual in the entrance halls of Japa- 
nese homes and traditional hotels. Slippers, 
not sandals, are worn in Japanese homes 
and Japanese-style ryokan. 

These errors notwithstanding, I was im- 
pressed with the overall content of the arti- 
cle. I hope you will continue to publish 
material of comparable quality. 
John Brannan 
Canberra, Australia 

File Listings 

Your announcement that the Uploads 
column will no longer appear in one place 
but will be found in boxed listings attached 
to articles was good news for me. As you 
point out, there will be more listings, and 
they will appear in a better context. 

I have three suggestions. First, please 
list these sidebars in the table of contents. 
Second, in the individual annotations, 
please continue to list file sizes in bytes. 
Finally, if the programs are shareware, in- 
dicate the cost of registration. 
Martin Davis 
Charlottesville, Va. 



I have been a CompuServe member for 
several years and regret your decision to 
drop the Uploads column. Like many of your 
members, I do not have the time, as you put 
it in the Dear Reader column, to leaf 
through an entire issue. 

Over the years I've gotten hints to inter- 
esting forums from the Uploads column. 
With a service as large as CompuServe it is 
difficult to know what is available and easy 
to miss something interesting. The Uploads 
column provided a place a busy user could 
go and quickly find something interesting. 

I hope you reconsider the decision to 
drop the Uploads column. 
Philip C. Hutcheson 
Lithia Springs, Ga. 

Gift Guide 

I was dismayed to read your "Gift Guide 
to Electronic Merrymaking" (Monitor, De- 
cember 1991, p. 7). Two computer games 
were recommended as holiday gifts and both 
are war games! 

Some of us still believe the year-end 
holidays are a time for celebrating a vision 
of "Peace on Earth." How does planning war 
strategies or piloting an F-16 fighter further 
that cause? 

Not all computer game-players are of a 
military mind. 

Steve Freedkin 

Executive Director, 

Peace Resource Center 

Santa Barbara, Calif. 



Send a Letter 

Send your letter to the editor by 
CompuServe Mail to 76004,3302. A $25 
connect credit is given to the writer of 
each letter published. Sorry, we cannot 
acknowledge letters or answer questions 
through this service. Please use 
CompuServe's Feedback system (GO 
FEEDBACK) or call 800/848-8990 for 
questions, problems, address changes, 
etc. A representative from Customer Ser- 
vice will be glad to help you. 



4 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



NOW™ 





TRADING THROUGH 
QUICK & REILUL 

...One of the largest discount brokers. 

* NO monthly subscription charges. 

* NO start-up charges * Ultra-low commissions. 



With Quick & Reilly's easy-to- 
use QUICK WAY on-line 24- 
hour brokerage service... 

• You can have from one to 75 
trading accounts with NO 
start-up or monthly subscrip- 
tion charges. 

• You also get big savings on 
commissions. 



jHIIIIIIHI 


QUICK 


01 


WAY 




USE ANY PC, ANY MODEM. 



• You can monitor, on a single 
screen, the prices of up to 18 
stocks. (You can similarly 
monitor options.) 

• You have instant access to 
Standard & Poor's Reports, 
Value Line Data Base II, and 
10 years of market data on 
some 50,000 securities. 



COMPARE 


100 Sh 
@40 


300 sh 

@30 


1000 sh 

@20 


QUICK & REILLY 


$49 


$82 


$109 


Merrill Lynch 


97 


230 


373 


Shearson Lehman 


91 


210 


437 


Paine Webber 


100 


205 


424 


Dean Witter Reynolds . 


95 


195 


424 


Prudential Bache 


104 


211 


421 


Smith Barney 


105 


206 


410 


(Survey 5/91) 







• You can get quotes on any stock, option 
or market index listed in the Wall Street 
Journal. 

• You can place orders in minutes, day or 
night. Reports are sent back on-line, fol- 
lowed by written confirmations. 



• And, any time you wish, you can bypass 
your computer and get personal service 
from an individual QUICK WAY Account 
Executive. 

• Securities held in your account are pro- 
tected up to $2,500,000. 

For complete information plus an on-line 
demonstration and application for 
QUICK WAY-type GO QWK. Or call 
800-666-7972/Ext. 5115 and ask for 
QUICK WAY. 

Quick&Rei lly 

^ I NC 

MEMBER NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE • SIPC 1 1 V 

120 Wall Street, New York, NY 10005 



GO OLI for more information. 



MONITOR 




Beyond the 
Screens 

Virtual reality was once the 
product of science fiction; now 
it is touted as the future wave 
of computing. 

"What lies around the cor- 
ner is a quantum leap in think- 
ing about how humans and 
computers interact," says John 
Eagan, who leads the new Sec- 
tion and Library 13, "Virtual Re- 
ality" in the Computer Art Fo- 
rum (GO COMART). 

What is virtual reality? It's a 
way of adding animation to 
computers that moves us into 
the four dimensions of height, 
width, depth and time. It's com- 
puter simulation of the environ- 
ment that actively involves the 
user in the four dimensions. 

Eagan notes computers 
have already changed the way 
we view our world. Spread- 
sheets and databases allow us 
to see data in a new perspec- 
tive, viewing numeric data in 
graphic form to perceive trends 
and patterns that might other- 
wise go unnoticed. 

But virtual reality goes fur- 
ther. "It attempts to bring the 
user 'into the world' created 
within the computer," explains 
Eagan. "The computer be- 
comes not a box that we 'look 
at' or 'type to,' but the medium 
through which we 'enter into' a 
new world that exists only by 
means of the computer." 

We now view information 
on a flat screen. Imagine the 
changes when we can see in 
three dimensions and "virtu- 
ally" grab objects, icons and 
3-D graphs. 

Some virtual reality uses 
are being pioneered at the Uni- 
versity of North Carolina, in- 
cluding molecular modeling by 
direct "virtual" manipulation of 
atoms, as well as architectural 
simulations that permit a "vir- 
tual walk" through a building 
that only exists on a computer. 



They're Truly Mad About the Mouse 



Every Tuesday evening in the 
Florida Forum (GO FLOR- 
h IDA), a group of normally 
rational people gather at 9 p.m. 
EST in Conference Room 13, 
"Disneymania," to talk about 
Mickey, Minnie, Donald, Daisy 
and other enlightened figures of 
our time. 

The event is the forum's 
"Tuesday Trivia" game. And the 
conversation, not surprisingly, 
often gets downright "Goofy." 

If you think the questions 
posed during "Tuesday Trivia" 
are strictly "Mickey Mouse 
stuff," try your hand at these 
puzzlers: 

1. In what year was the film 
Pinocchio released? 




2. Was the 3 Little Pigs a 
color cartoon? 

3. Name the first cartoon 
Pluto appeared in. 

4. How many fairies are in 
Sleeping Beauty? 

5. What did Mr. Toad alleg- 
edly steal? 



Little Man Draped 



Randy Newman wouldn't be 
caught dead there, and 
wm Wilt Chamberlain wouldn't 
find anything big enough to 
cover his basketball. But if 
Napoleon had had a modem, 
he would have had more op- 
tions than tacky jackets with 
the hand warmers in the chest. 

Short Sizes Inc., offering 
"distinctive apparel for the 
shorter man," is open for busi- 
ness in The Electronic Mall 
(GO SS). Founded by a man 
who is 5 foot 2 inches tall, 
Short Sizes sells money-back- 
guaranteed clothes to men un- 
der 5 foot 8 inches, including 
those with "athletic" builds 
(i.e., small waists) and those 
who might be classified as 
"portly shorter men" (i.e., not- 
so-small waists). No word on 
whether the spring collection 
will include short shorts. 




6. Who appears as Bert in 
Mary Poppins? 

7. How many Love Bug mov- 
ies were made? 

8. Was a boy's or a girl's voice 
used for Peter Pan? 

9. Who was Retlaw Yensid? 
10. How much did it cost to 
make Snow White? 

All contest participants and 
their accumulated points are 
honored in a weekly updated 
file, POINTS.TXT, in the forum's 
Library 13, "Disneymania." 
(Answers: 1. 1940, 2. Yes, 3. The 
Chain Gang, 4. Four, 5. A car, 6. 
Dick Van Dyke, 7. Four, 8. 
Boy's, 9. Walter Disney, when 
he wanted an anonymous 
credit, 10. $1.5 million.) 



MEMBER ESSAY 



Sketchy 
Details 

It has become a tradition in 
our family to custom-make in- 
vitations to birthday parties for 
my sons, Benjamin and Joel. 
With access to my wife's new 
laser printer, I started nosing 
around the Comics and Anima- 
tion Forum (GO COMICS) for 
images that might make a 
spiffy card announcing Ben- 
jamin's fifth birthday. 

Unable to find an image of 
Benjamin's favorite cartoon 
character, I posted a brief note 
asking if anyone had one. 

Checking in the next day, 
I was surprised to find an an- 
swer from Tad Stones, the per- 
son who created the character. 
He was unable to supply us 
with a computerized image, 
but was kind enough to send 
the kids something even better: 
a signed, original, hand-drawn 
birthday picture— a fine reward 
for a few minutes' work on 
CompuServe! 

Charles Meyerson 
Oak Park, III. 



6 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



It's the Disc Jockey's Initials 



Secret messages may or may not be found by 
playing heavy metal songs backwards. But 
you can find hidden meanings in the call 
letters of many American radio stations. For 
proof, check out file ORIGIN.ZIP in Library 10, 
"Radio," of the Broadcast Professionals Forum (GO 
BPFORUM). 

The file, compiled by dedicated radio enthusi- 
asts, lists the meanings behind nearly 500 radio 
station call letters. Some of the acronyms are 



easy enough to figure out: like WCBS or KABC. 
Many others, however, are downright cryptic. 

San Francisco's KFRC, for example, means 
"Keep Forever Radiating Cheer." WEVD in New 
York was named after Socialist presidential can- 
didate Eugene V. Debs. And Columbus, Ohio's 
WBNS was named "Wolfe, Bank, Newspaper and 
Shoes" in honor of its founders. 

Does Jesse Helms know about this? 




Andrew Tobias, author of 
the Managing Your Money per- 
sonal accounting program, is 
a frequent visitor to several 
CompuServe forums. Recently 
in the IBM Applications Forum 
(GO IBMAPP), a member with 
his tongue planted firmly in 
his disk drive suggested that 
Tobias market a new program 
called Managing Your Marriage, 
complete with wedding guest 
database, household budget, 
prenuptial agreement ("Look 
what the computer printed, 
honey, we better sign it") ... and 
possibly rebate coupons for the 
follow-up program, Managing 
Your Mistake. 

Tobias shot back: "We're 
working on Managing Your 
Midriff, Managing Your Mantra, 
Managing Your Mercenaries (a 
program with a small but very 
wealthy customer base, mostly 
emirs), and, for pet-lovers, 
Managing Your Menagerie." 

Tobias passed on Managing 
Your Marriage, gallantly noting: 
"The problem is that, romantics 
that we are, we would really 
hope not to get repeat busi- 
ness." Look for Tobias on the 
new MECA Forum (GO MECA). 



Entering a Whole New Dimension 

Has this ever happened to you? You're catalogue browsing 
through a service like Shoppers Advantage Club, attempting to 
■■ compare two personal stereos. From reading the product 
descriptions, you discover that the first, a Sangean DT-200v, 
measures 113mm wide by 66mm high and 22.5mm deep; while the 
second, a Sony WMFX40, is reported as 3% by 4% by VAs inches. 

For a quick conversion, check the recently uploaded 39K file 
UNITS4.ZIP in Library 13, "Computer Applications," of the 
Safetynet Forum (GO SAFETYNET). Lars Josefsson of Sweden 
has furnished this IBM and compatible shareware package for 
those who need to convert units between SI, metric, English, 
pharmacy, civil engineering, and other more obscure units and sets. 



Roaming 
the Fifth 
Estate 

Chicago Tribune feature 
writer Dan Kening has discov- 
ered that the Broadcast Profes- 
sionals (GO BPFORUM) and 
Journalism (GO JFORUM) Fo- 
rums are more than just places 
for media insiders to hobnob. 
Two of his recent regular Tues- 
day radio columns demonstrate 
that CompuServe in general 
and these forums in particular 
are excellent places to do arti- 
cle research. They also are a 
good way for the general public 
to learn about the media from 
the inside. 

The first of these columns, 
found in the Journalism Fo- 
rum's Library 6, "Radio/TV," file 
NEWS.TRB, was inspired by a 
message board discussion on 
newscasters reading commer- 
cials on-air. The more recent 
CSERVE.TXT, also available in 
the Broadcast Forum's Library 
10, "Radio," presents the fo- 
rums as electronic water cool- 
ers where listeners can get the 
scoop on developments on 
both the network and local 
level as well as trade comments 
with some of the people they 
listen to daily. 

"What I enjoy about both 
forums are the kinds of shop- 
talk discussions you get into 
with colleagues over a cup of 
suds," observes John Bry, news 
director of a station in Grand 
Rapids, Mich. "They are like 
bull sessions in a convention 
hallway, except here the partic- 
ipants are likely to be in an- 
other industry or on another 
continent." 

Adds Paul Harris, morning 
disc jockey at WCXR in Wash- 
ington, D.C.: "The information 
we pass around here is often 
days ahead of the trade papers 
and more in-depth, too." 



Monitor 

Contributors: 
Cathryn Conroy, Mike 
Pietruk, Lindsy Van Gelder 



MARCH 1992 ■ 7 




No Bull: Harry's Just Wild About Logging On 



Sign Here 

"A name is an uncertain 
thing. You can't count on it," 
wrote German playwright 
Bertolt Brecht. 

But members of the Collect- 
ibles Forum (GO COLLECT) who 
V frequent Section 11, "Auto- 
graphs/' would respectfully 
ft take issue with that thought 
ft (and maybe even ask ol' Bert 
ft for his "John Hancock"). 

V Contrary to the stereotype, 

V serious autograph seekers don't 
m hang around stage doors and 
W never thrust crumpled bits of 
J paper at passing celebrities. 

The Collectibles Forum mem- 
bers tend to do most of their 
collecting by mail. They use 
their computers to trade war 
stories and swap the addresses 
of friendly notables. 

Far example, member Cheryl 
Taschner recently announced: 
"I received my second auto- 
graph this week! It was from 
Greg Norman— a short note 
personally inscribed to my hus- 
band and me thanking us for 
our support. It was signed by 
Norman with a picture of a flag 
on the green with a golf ball." 

Ralph Roberts, co-author of 
The Price Guide to Autographs 
and the Collector's Guide to Au- 
tographs (both published by 
the Wallace-Homestead/Chilton 
division of Capital Cities/ABC) 
notes that the forum has be- 
come virtually indispensable 
for the serious collector. "We 
supported the autograph area 
with a whole chapter in the 
current edition of the Price 
Guide," he says. 

For an introduction to the 
hobby, read files TAY.TXT and 
GLOSSA.TXT in Library 11, 
"Autographs," 



Fans of TVs Night Court 
were treated recently to a 
H special online evening with 
Judge Harry Stone, from the 
program's Warner Brothers 
stage in Burbank. Hosted by 
Nick Arnett and the Multime- 
dia Forum (GO MULTIME- 
DIA), the conference with actor, 
comic, magician and Macintosh 
fanatic Harry Anderson at- 
tracted more than 50 members. 
"I'm not sure how it was for 



the folks who joined us, but 
Harry and I were laughing so 
hard our sides hurt," says 
Arnett. "Of course, maybe the 
bottle of champagne we were 
sipping (a late birthday gift 
Anderson felt compelled to 
open) had something to do with 
our mood." 

Fortunately for those who 
missed it, Arnett captured the 
informal get-together and placed 
it in the forum's Library 1, 



"General Information," file 
HARRYA.TXT. The two-and-a- 
half-hour Q&A session featured 
no shortage of smart remarks, 
some more serious ones and a 
sprinkling of chatter on com- 
puters and multimedia. 

Anderson's love of comput- 
ers and CompuServe has rub- 
bed off, as virtually the entire 
Night Court cast has been 
online at one time or another. 



So Good, He Just Phoned It In 



Aldus Corp. and Quark Inc., publishers of two 
leading desktop publishing programs, may 
seem like competitors, but beneath that 
tough, corporate exterior are employees with 
helpful hearts. 

Phil Gaskill from Aldus, Paul Tower from 
Quark and Ken Vandagriff from Ventura Soft- 
ware Inc. recently participated in an online con- 
ference in the Desktop Publishing Forum on the 
topic of technical support. The conference was 
proceeding smoothly when Tower suddenly lost 
his connection. So he called his competitor 
Gaskill for a little help. 

With the phone in one hand and his keyboard 
in the other, Gaskill told Tower the conference 
proceedings and typed in Tower's responses as he 



dictated them over the phone. 

Gaskill says he and Tower — competitors 
though they may be — have gotten to know each 
other well on the forum. "We feel almost like 
brothers," he says. 'Tech support types tend to 
empathize with each other." 

Tower agrees. "Phil and I are kind of on the 
inside, facing a sometimes harsh world," he says 
of technical support. (Think about that the next 
time you call for help!) 

If you want to catch the show, the Desktop 
Publishing Forum (GO DTPFORUM) hosts regu- 
lar conferences on Tuesdays at 6 p.m. EST. A 
transcript of the technical support conference is 
in Library 1, "Forum Transcripts," under the 
filename TECHCO.TXT. 



Guiding the Guide for Civic Architects 




p , j s s 





r or the thousands of US citizens who are shap- 
I™ ing their communities' futures by volunteer- 
M ing on municipal and county planning boards, 
a new magazine called Planning Commissioners 
Journal is available. 

The brainchild of CompuServe member and 
attorney Wayne Senville, the publication is 
meant to fill the knowledge gap in basic planning 
and land use issues. 

But the magazine has a high-tech twist. The 
first drafts of articles are uploaded to the Legal 
Forum (GO LAWSIG), Library 10, "Municipal 
Planning," where forum members are encouraged 
to read them. Comments and questions are for- 
warded to the authors. "It has worked well," says 
Senville. "Several articles were significantly im- 
proved as a result of questions raised by Compu- 
Serve members who read the first drafts." 

Another benefit is the emerging, informal net- 
work of planning volunteers. "They are able to 
share information and learn how planning boards 
elsewhere deal with similar issues," says 
Senville. 

For information or a sample copy of Planning 
Commissioners Journal, contact Senville via 
CompuServe Mail at User ID number 72570,460. 



8 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



WORLD'S LARGEST 
CD CATALOG - ON LINE 




ALMOST 



FREE CDs 



Steal This Disc 3 - Newsubscribers to 
our catalog may choose to receive a 
free Rykodisc CD sampler, Steal This 
Disc 3. The 72-minute CD contains 
23 tracks, including a song from the new Nils Lofgren release, 
plus Jimi Hendrix, Jerry Jeff Walker, Frank Zappa, Badfinger, 
Devo, Country Joe, McGear, David Bowie and more. Regular 
Price: $1 3.99 + S&H. New Subscribers pay only the $3.99 
S&H Charge. (55328) 

Just add the samplers by putting their codes as a comment 
on your $6.00 catalog order. 

Shanachie First Family Reggae - This 67 minute, 15 cut 
CD Reggae disc contains songs from your favorite 
performers. Featuring Bunny Waiter, Rita Marley, Judy 
Mowatt, Mutabaruka, Alpha Blondy, Eek-A-Mouse, 
Yellowman and more. Regularly $1 3.99, only $3.99 for S&H 
when you order on line. (64557) 



This 







TEIDEC CL 
INTERN AT 


ASSICS 
ION As. 



Teldec Classics International 

69-minute CD contains 22 tracks. 
Includes selections from Wagner, 
Haydn, Mozart, Bach Beethoven and 
more. Only $3.99 for S&H when you order on line. (61 539 



81 



JVC World Sounds Catalog - 40 cuts with music from all over 
the world. Includes selections from China, Bali, Zaire and more. 
Regularly $1 1 .99, only $3.99 for S&H when you order on line. 
(49063) 

Vienna Master Series Sampler - New from Pilz is an all digital 
classical CD sampler featuring works by Beethoven, Mozart, 
Vivaldi, Brahms, Chopin, Verdi, Bach and Bizet. Only $3.99 
for S&H when you order on line. (49073) 

Royal Crown Classics Sampler - The Pilz group presents a 
sampler with superior sound quality, featuring works from 
Mozart, Wagner, Vivaldi, Chopin, Tchaikovsky and more. Only 
$3.99 for S&H when you order on line. (48225) 





Bose Express Music is like having the world's largest 
record store on line. We carry the complete catalog 
of all the major labels, plus independents like OJC, 
Chesky, Pausa, Concord Jazz, DMP, GRP, Alligator, 
Rounder, Riverside, Pablo, Fantasy ...in total, over 
1 ,000 independents. 

Ordering from us couldn't be easier. Order on line (GO 
BEM), by typing GO BEM and you can order our 240 
page Catalog or any regularly priced CD listed in our 
on-line catalog at our sale price, plus only $3.99 
shipping and handling per order. 



GO MALL Menu 

The GO MALL menu for Bose Express Music changes 
each month. Be sure to check it regularly to find: 
Best Seller Charts for Rock, Jazz, Classical, Country & Video 
plus sales on Boxed Sets, Samplers and Classical 
Music specials (including Opera). GO BEM for details. 



First Order - Free Usage Credits ExpWSsMusiC 

The first 1000 users who order 3 or more CDs from 



The first 1000 users who order 3 or more CDs from 
Bose Express Music on line will receive free usage 
credits - GO BEM for details. 



COMP03 



GO OLI for more information. 



by Cathryn Conroy 





► The global economic shakeout 
may be the chance aspiring entre- 
preneurs have been waiting for. 

The '90s recession has taken its toll on 
small businesses — they are starting slower 
and failing faster — but despite the hard 
times, this may be the best time to open shop. 

Entrepreneurs should prepare for the 
economy's recovery by opening or expanding 
a business now because much of the compe- 
tition is disappearing, says Sam Reprogel, 
public information officer for the Small Busi- 
ness Administration's Baltimore, Md., dis- 
trict office. "With most existing businesses 
focusing on survival, now is a good time to 
get a piece of the marketplace," he says. 

Established competitors are one of the 
biggest risk factors for new entrepreneurs, 
but during a recession, those competitors are 
just trying to stay in business and meet their 
payroll; they are at their most vulnerable 
point competitively. An entrepreneur can 
creatively grab hold of this opportunity and 
make the most of it — the credo of the 
recession-struck small-business person. It 
doesn't necessarily mean shelling out a large 
and risky monetary investment, but rather 
seizing the moment. It takes brains to recog- 
nize opportunity and guts to grab hold of it, 
but the payoff can be extraordinary. 



How does a small-business owner — or 
someone dreaming of going it alone — seize 
opportunity? 

Redefine your idea of risk. 
»- Think like an entrepreneur. 
»> Turn problems into solutions. 
I* Become a first-rate marketer. 

Redefining Risk 

Starting or expanding a small business in 
a recession would seem to be fraught with 
risk. Not so, says Sarah Edwards, who, along 
with husband Paul, is co-sysop of the Work- 
ing From Home Forum and author of the 
home-based business bible Working From 
Home. "Risk has suddenly changed its mean- 
ing," she says. 

Security once meant a job with the largest 
employer in town, regular raises, health in- 
surance and a fat pension plan. Now US 
employers are laying off workers at the as- 
tounding rate of 2,200 a day, according to 
USA Today while many of Europe's largest 
companies — Italy's Olivetti, the Netherlands' 
Philips and Germany's Siemens, to name a 
few — are restructuring, eliminating jobs and 
merging just to stay afloat. For those lucky 
enough to retain their jobs, salaries are often 
frozen or even cut, health benefits are scaled 
back and pension plans are in jeopardy. 



FEATURE 



CM's Cover Story: 

An Ace in the 
Recessionary Hole 
▼ 

Finding Clients, p. 12 

T 

Startup Files, p. 14 

T 

Essential 
Electronics, p. 18 

The Edwardses advise us to rethink our 
ideas of security. "The corporate paycheck is 
a false sense of security," says Sarah. "True 
security lies within yourself." 

Futurists predict many jobs lost today 
will not return. "The economy may be per- 
manently restructuring into a flexible work- 
force. "People will need to make it on their 
own because the jobs just won't be there," 
says Sarah. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 11 



Patronize Me: Finding 

You may not think of yourself as a mar- 
keting genius, but if you want your business 
to succeed, you'd best become one. The ex- 
perts advise that you spend at least 40 
percent of your time marketing — whether 
that be advertising, networking, writing let- 
ters, making phone calls — in the early days 
of a business. Once you're established, you 
can devote about 20 percent of your time to 
getting work. 

Successful marketing maneuvers don't 
just happen. They require careful planning 
and research. Grant Slinger, who imports 
hand-knits from the United Kingdom and 
sells them mail-order through The Celtic 
Catalogue, is always on the lookout for 
companies worldwide that might be inter- 
ested in a joint venture. Before approach- 
ing them, he does his homework, which 
always involves CompuServe research in 
such databases as D&B -International Dun's 
Market Identifiers and TRW Business Pro- 
files. He uses the information to convince 
marketing managers to make a deal. "By 
having figures and other relevant informa- 
tion, it is possible to turn a 'no' into a 'yes'," 
says Slinger. 

ONLINE RESOURCES 

D&B-Dun's Market Identifiers (GO 

DUNS)— A directory of more than 6.7 mil- 
lion US public and private businesses. 

D&B-International Dun's Market 
Identifiers (GO DUNS)-A directory of 
2,1 million public, private and government- 
controlled companies in 120 countries. 




Dun's Electronic Business Directory 
(GO BUSDIR)— Directory information on 
more than 8.5 million US businesses and 
professionals. 

Thomas Register Online (GO 
THOMAS) — Information on approximately 
150,000 US and Canadian manufacturers 
and service providers. 

European Company Library (GO 
EUROLD3)— Selected financial informa- 
tion on more than 2 million European 
companies from leading business data- 
bases, including D&B European Dun's 
Market Identifiers, Europe's Largest Com- 
panies, Hoppenstedt Austria, Hoppenstedt 
Benelux, Irish Company Profiles and 
Kompass Europe. 

Disclosure II (GO DISCLOSURE)— 

Company and ownership reports that pro- 
vide financial statements, management dis- 
cussion, insider and institutional holdings, 
and more. 

TRW Business Credit Profiles (GO 
TRW) — Credit and business information on 
more than 13 million organizations, includ- 
ing credit histories, financial information 
and ratios, key business facts, UCC filings 
and more. 

Biz*File (GO YEL)— Directory of more 
than 10 million US and Canadian establish- 
ments, searchable by company name, indus- 
try or type of business, and phone number. 



Business Database Plus (GO BUSDB) 

— Full-text articles from more than 450 
regional, national and international busi- 
ness and trade publications. 



Business Dateline (GO BUSDATE)— 

Full-text articles from more than 115 US 
and Canadian regional business publica- 
tions. 



Newspaper Library (GO NEWSLIB) 

— Selected full-text articles from 48 US 
newspapers. 



UK Newspaper Library (GO 
UKPAPERS)— Selected articles from lead- 
ing United Kingdom newspapers. 



ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 



IQuest (GO IQUEST) databases also 
offer information: 

Sales Prospector— Full-text newslet- 
ter reporting on industrial, commercial and 
institutional expansions and relocations. 
Arranged by region throughout the United 
States and Canada. 

Trinet US Businesses— Summary de- 
scriptions of 7.5 million public and private 
US businesses with 20 or more employees. 



Peter Geiger, a Pulitzer Prize-winning 
journalist turned public relations practitio- 
ner, is one of those who recently lost his 
executive position when the northeastern 
Ohio PR agency he worked for 
went out of business a year 
ago. "I never had faith in the 
inevitability of the paycheck," 
he says. 

Counting up his savings and invest- 
ments, Geiger got online in the Working 
From Home Forum and asked the experts 
how much cash he would need to start his 
own home-based public relations firm. The 
early months have been lean, and he admits 
he is only earning as much as he did several 
years ago. Geiger knows that should the 
economy continue its decline, he may lose the 
few clients he now has. "That small discom- 
fort may not be such a bad thing for an 
entrepreneur. The fire in the belly doesn't 
always burn with the same vigor. On those 
days when it's less intense, there's always 
the wolf at the door for inspiration," he says. 



FEATURE 



Entrepreneurial Thinking 

Most people think the difference between 
entrepreneurs and the rest of the world is 
that entrepreneurs thrive on big risks. 

Smart entrepreneurs don't 
take undue risk; instead, they 
know how to tell the differ- 
ence between a shaky idea 
and one that will work, and have the courage 
to put it into action. 

CompuServe member Gary Elfring, pres- 
ident of Elfring Soft Fonts, develops and then 
sells or distributes as shareware soft fonts 
for LaserJet, DeskJet and PostScript print- 
ers. Shareware distribution by its nature 
cannot be controlled by the author. This is 
true for Elfring, whose products have ended 
up in several European countries without 
any effort on his part. "People in these coun- 
tries started sending me money. This amazed 
me!" he says. 

It was especially amazing because the 
font sets they were purchasing were de- 
signed for US ASCII characters. But Elfring 



thought like an entrepreneur and turned his 
"problem" into opportunity. Instead of pock- 
eting the unexpected receipts and leaving it 
at that, Elfring explored the European mar- 
ket, something he never before considered. 
If people were willing to pay for something 
that wasn't even useful, think what they 
might do if he catered to their needs. 

Elfring studied the European market and 
decided it would be a solid source of addi- 
tional sales. He designed a two-step ap- 
proach to European marketing that began 
with the development of inexpensive 
shareware fonts for the major languages of 
Europe, which were then distributed as 
widely as possible. He then attended trade 
shows and met with international publishers 
and distributors. "As my fonts became more 
popular, my personal relationships with the 
publishers began to pay off," he says. 

While Elfring's international expansion 
fell in his lap, some opportunities aren't as 
easy to grasp. When David Shank found 
himself "between jobs" several years ago, he 



12 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 




Trickle of shareware fees from abroad developed into stream of European soft font business: Elfring 



started doing free-lance public relations 
work while looking for an executive position 
in the field. With no job offers in hand, Shank 
and his wife, Marilyn, saw a glimmer of 
opportunity in the steadily growing free- 
lance work. "We broke every rule in the 'How 
to Start a Successful Business' book," quips 
David. "We weren't undercapitalized; we 
were capital-less! We made a commitment to 
go for it and swore we wouldn't look back." 

The Shanks, who now regularly offer ad- 
vice to others in the Public Relations and 
Marketing Forum, may have started out on a 
shoestring budget, but they did do some 
things by the book. The two carefully 
planned their business management, mar- 
keting, finances, and short- and long-term 
goals, seeking the advice of experts when 
needed. "Our marketing and mental position 
was that our abilities and products would be 
every bit as good, if not better, than those of 
any other public relations firm in the United 
States," says David. 

They established operational objectives, 



incorporated as a subchapter "S" corporation 
and began working with a good small- 
business attorney and a certified public ac- 
countant who could offer expert assistance. 
They computerized, leasing equipment to 
save cash assets. 

Thinking like entrepreneurs paid off. 
Shank Public Relations Counselors Inc. 
started as a home business, but is now a 
much larger enterprise with leased office 
space and three full-time employees. 

Thinking like an entrepreneur also 
means being perceptive to changes in the 
larger economic and political climate that 
might have a bearing on business opportuni- 
ties. Hundreds of thousands of European 
businesses, small and large, have been gear- 
ing up for several years to take advantage of 
the single market being created by the Euro- 
pean Economic Community. Not knowing 
what effect it would have, but knowing the 
structural market change it provided was a 
risk worth taking, Silvano Stagni of Bologna, 
Italy, expandedhis company, International 



It's All Attitude: 
Advice from Making It 

Taking that first step to start or expand a 
business is the most difficult one of all. It's easy 
to dream; it's quite another to act, 

In Making It On Your Own {Tarcher, 1991), a 
how-to book that benefits novice and pro alike, 
Paul and Sarah Edwards offer common-sense 
advice on how to take the first step and many 
steps thereafter: 

Adopt a new, self-reliant mindset. 

Being on your own requires a mental shift in 

how you think about security and risk. 
- Put your show on the road. 

Take charge of your life and be its director, 

rather than letting it run you. 

► Become your own boss. 

Learn to manage yourself so you achieve 
your goals. The "self-management muscle" 
is an essential ingredient for success. 
■ - Spend money so you can earn it. 
H you're starting out, lease or buy office 
equipment so you can produce a product. 
Embark on a marketing campaign if you want 
to expand your business. You have to sup- 
port your business before it will support you. 

► Change the way you think about time. 
Decide how you want to fill your day. Identify 
your purpose for being on your own, clear 
out your backlog of work and schedule your 
day to yield the best results. 

► Toot your own horn. 

Get the attention you deserve by developing 
a "marketing mindset" that promotes what 
you do, not how you do it. 



Watch Your Backing 

Whether you're gathering courage to start a 
business, trying to maintain one, or defying 
nay-sayers and attempting to expand, you need 
capital to succeed. 

Although some businesses require large 
sums of ready cash— expensive inventory for a 
retail store, for instance—many lucrative enter- 
prises can be started or expanded with more 
ingenuity and frugality than money. 

Here are experts' tips for collecting cash: 
v Build the business on the side while you're 

still employed to reduce risks. 

► Line up two or three clients before you leave 
your job. 

Tap your employer as your first client. 

► Let people know you are in business. 

► Lease computers and office equipment rather 
than purchasing. 

► If you can't get a bank loan (most home- 
based businesses don't qualify}, consider 
tapping your retirement savings or borrow- 
ing from friends and relatives. 

If you can't borrow money elsewhere, use 
your credit cards, but plan how you will pay 
the bills. 

** To save the most money, work from home 
rather than leasing office space. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 13 



Slowdown Startups: Files for Planning, Marketing & More 



Launching a business and then operating 
it efficiently can be an administrative night- 
mare. Let CompuServe help you master such 
daunting tasks as business plans, marketing 
strategies, insurance protection and more. 

Good sources of business information in- 
clude the International Entrepreneurs Fo- 
rum (GO USEN), the Working From Home 
Forum (GO WORK), and the Public Rela- 
tions and Marketing Forum (GO PRSIG). 
Here's a sampling of files available: 



MONEY MATTERS 



Entrepreneurs Forum 
Library 5, "Finance": 

Income and Billing Program 

Descriptive invoices providing all income 
data required by most accountants. MS- 
DOS. Shareware ($69). GIST54.EXE. 

Government Loan 

How to qualify for a Small Business Admin- 
istration loan. SBA. 

Export 

How to qualify for a US government loan to 
get into the export market. GOVLOA.TXT. 

Working From Home Forum 
Library 2, "Business Info": 

▼ 

Old Debts 

Collecting overdue debt without losing the 
client. DEBT.THD. 

Merchant Status 

How to get merchant status for a home 
business so payment by VISA or MasterCard 
can be accepted. CCARDS.THD, MERNUM.- 
TXT, VISA.HOW. 

Library 9, "Accounting & Tax": 

Bookkeeping vs. Accounting 

What's the difference? BKACCT.THD. 

Cash vs. Accrual Accounting 

Differences and merits of each. CSH- 
ACR.THD. 

Cash vs. Assets 

Is it better to contribute cash or assets to a 
new business? ASSETS.THD. 

Software Reviews 

Various accounting packages are reviewed. 
ACCTSW.THD. 

Loan Amortization Schedule 

Calculates loan variables, including princi- 
pal, interest rate, payment amount or num- 
ber of payments, and generates payback 
schedules. Shareware ($10). AMORTZ.EXE. 

Getting Credit 

Tips on how a new business can establish 
credit with new vendors. CREDIT.THD. 



BUSINESS PLANS 



Entrepreneurs Forum 
Library 8, "Business Plans": 

Cash Flow Forecaster 

Covers a three-year period. CASHFL.ZIP. 

Plan Outline 

BUSPLA.ZIP. 

Business Plan Toolkit 

Software for the Macintosh. BPLANS.SIT. 

Prospectus 

Plan for a new restaurant. YELPRO.TXT. 



INSURANCE 



Working From Home Forum 
Library 2, "Business Info": 

Equipment Insurance 

Tips on finding insurance for equipment 
used in your home office. HOINS.THD. 

Library 9, "Accounting & Tax": 

Repaying Employees 

Tips on how to use pretax dollars to repay 
employees for medical deductibles, co- 
insurance payments and other out-of-pocket 
expenses. BENEFI.TXT. 

Are You Liable? 

Is it important to carry liability or malprac- 
tice insurance? LIABLE.THD. 

Entrepreneurs Forum 
Library 7, "Managing Your Company": 

Small Business Info 

Health insurance information for businesses 
with three to 25 employees. AB.CIS. 

Public Relations and Marketing Forum 
Library 1, "On Your Own": 

▼ 

Self-employed 

Types of insurance needed by the self- 
employed. INSUR2.STR. 



MARKETING TIPS 



Public Relations and Marketing Forum 
Library 1, "On Your Own": 

Tips for the New Entrepreneur 

Creative ideas for getting business. MK- 
THLP.STR. 

"Cold Calls" 

Is this an effective way to get new clients? 
CALLIN.STR. 

Getting Clients 

Coalition building as a prospecting tech- 
nique. PRSPCT.ST2. 



Recessionary Times 

Marketing during a recession. RECESS.- 
MKT, RECESS.ART. 

Working From Home Forum 
Library 2, "Business Info": 

Advertising Basics 

Beneficial message thread to help those 
starting out. ADVICE.TXT. 

Promotion 

Design a videotape to promote your business. 
Learn how to formulate ideas and work with 
a scriptwriter. D.TV. 

During Recession 

Should you be more concerned with sales 
and marketing or controlling costs? RE- 
CESS.THD. 



OTHER MATTERS 



Public Relations and Marketing Forum 
Library 1, "On Your Own": 

Starting Out 

Tips on how to start your own business. 
GOFOIT.STR, STARTADV 

Working From Home Forum 
Library 2, "Business Info": 

Motivation 

Ten steps for setting goals, objectives and 
developing a focus for the future. 10S- 
TPE.TXT. 

Business Image 

Does a post office box give your home- 
based business a "fly by night" image? 
POBOX.THD. 

Meeting Clients 

Should you receive clients in your home 
office? HMVSIT.THD. 

Library 3, "Specific Businesses": 
Independent? 

When is an independent contractor really an 
employee? IRSIC.THD. 

Library 9, "Accounting & Tax": 

Growing the Business 

Advice on merging companies with similar 
directions. MERGCO.THD. 

Incorporating 

The benefits and problems of registering as a 
Subchapter S corporation. SUBCHS.THD. 

Name Registration 

Requirements for registering a name for your 
business. DBA.THD. 



14 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Technology Advisor Ltd., 
a firm that specializes 
in cross-border merger 
and acquisitions talks. 
In addition to his Ital- 
ian clients, Stagni now 
boasts customers in 
Switzerland, Belgium 
and Germany. 

Although going glo- 
bal means more compe- 
tition from larger com- 
panies and a longer 
return on his market- 
ing investment, Stagni 
insists the results are 
worth it. To stand out 
in the crowd, he has be- 
gun to specialize, carv- 
ing out a niche. 

"We did a lot of pro- 
motional activity that 
took much longer to 
give results. Be ready 
for initial longer re- 
turns on your money. 
As a rule of thumb, add 
30 percent to your fi- 
nancial exposure for 
each country you are 
seeking to do business 
with," he advises. 

Stagni's risk in- 
creased when he ex- 
panded beyond Italian 
borders because he 
could no longer finance 
the business himself 
and had to secure a 
bank loan; however, he 
compensated for that risk by using a factor- 
ing service that gives him advances on half of 
his invoices. 

Finding Solutions 

Sometimes opportunity may be disguised 
as a problem, but eventually emerges as a 
new chance. 

Bill Vick of Piano, Texas, gradually real- 
ized that his vision of what he had to offer as 
an employee was radically different than his 




The Other Guys: Tracking Your Rivals 

When you're in business for yourself, it's easy to view the rest of the world as competition. 
Keeping track of your competitors is not only the best way to stay ahead of the pack, but also an 
effective way to get new ideas and spark your imagination. 

Selected CompuServe databases offer a fast, efficient and affordable way to keep a wary eye 
on the competition, so you'll be informed of new products and special promotions as well as 
expansions and divestitures. 

To track sales and marketing ideas, product news, and industry trends and analysis in a 
variety of industries, such as agriculture, manufacturing, retailing, telecommunications and 
trade, check Business Database Plus (GO BUSDB). Full-text articles from scores of profes- 
sional journals and other publications ranging from ABA Banking Journal to Wood World are 
available. 

IQuest {GO IQUEST) is a comprehensive reference and information service providing access 
to more than 850 databases containing articles, indexes and numerical data. 

Worldwide business literature on new products, foreign trade and market data is indexed in 
PTS PROMT, available through IQuest. Global markets, products, technologies, acquisitions and 
marketing strategies for all major industries are covered Searches can be conducted by subject, 
event, company, product, country and more. 

PTS MARS, also within IQuest, provides information on the advertising and marketing of 
consumer goods and services, including advertising agency activities, sales strategies and 
promotional campaigns, US activities are primarily covered, although some international data 
also is available. Searches can be conducted by company, product information, advertising or 
marketing concept, event, spokesperson, geographic area and more. 

Both PTS PROMT and PTS MARS should be searched using IQuest-ll, in which you specify the 
database name. 

Business Database Plus and IQuest carry surcharges. 



employer's vision. Vick turned 50 and hit 
what he describes as the "age wall." Rather 
than spend the 15 years until retirement in a 
position that didn't challenge 
him, Vick quit and started his 
own company. Vick & Associ- 
ates is an executive search 
firm specializing in mid-level and senior 
marketing and sales associates in the micro- 
computer industry. 

Says Vick, "I found that the way I saw 



FEATURE 



myself—dynamic, ag- 
gressive and alive — 
was not the way compa- 
nies saw me — 50, 50, 50 
— so I set out to provide 
a living for my family, 
send one of my daugh- 
ters through college 
and provide for another 
daughter's wedding." 
He now earns in excess 
of $250,000 annually, 
much more than in his 
days as an employee. 

It was the problem 
of a depressed economy 
that forced Charles 
Sayers, a former vice 
president of marketing 
for an Atlanta publish- 
ing company, to start 
his own business, Cre- 
ative Direct. "When- 
ever there's a downturn 
in the economy, compa- 
nies tend to cut back on 
their marketing and 
advertising staff— even 
though they need just 
as much work done," he 
says. Instead of bearing 
the financial burden 
of full-time employees, 
many companies hire 
free-lancers. 

Well-connected in 
the field nationally, 
Sayers received calls 
from colleagues looking 
for reputable, depend- 
able direct mail copywriters and designers. 
"I saw this as an opportunity," he says. 
The most unusual thing he did was to call 

on the competition. "I called 

every free-lance copywriter, 
designer and direct-market- 
ing agency I had ever worked 
with as VP of marketing. I asked them about 
the current market environment. Every one 
of them, without exception, was courteous, 
helpful and willing to share valuable advice." 



APRIL 1992 ■ 15 



Marketing 

Fact #1: To succeed as an entrepreneur, 
you have to be a marketing expert. 

Fact #2: Most new entrepreneurs don't 
have any idea how to market. 

Fact #3: They'd better learn— fast. 

And in this recessionary economy, there is 
little room for error. Expensive marketing 
campaigns are a luxury of times past. Forced 
to rely on lower budgets, today's entrepre- 
neurs need to be more creative 

than ever in their marketing 
endeavors. 

When Jeff and Mary Free- 
man of Chatsworth, Ga., decided to open a 
home-based computer store, they knew mar- 
keting began with a clever name. Front 
Porch Computers was born, and it's proved to 
be a name people remember. 

Because it is home-based, Front Porch 



FEATURE 



Computers differs from most computer 
resellers in that it can offer much lower 
prices. "We constantly monitor the various 
computer networks for new developments in 
the industry and business in general. Compu- 
Serve has been beneficial to our company in 
providing the needed information," he says. 

To tap more than the local Chatsworth 
market, they started advertising in the 
CompuServe Classifieds with short, to-the- 
point ads, and have been in- 
undated with business, in- 
cluding customers from out- 
side the United States. To 
handle the calls more efficiently, the 
Freemans established a toll-free number 
that CompuServe members are likely to re- 
member: 800/GO PORCH. 

"The Classifieds' responses have grown 
larger than our local business," says Jeff. 



Business Locator: Introducing Biz*File 



To be a marketing expert, you not only 
need creative ideas for selling your wares, 
but also information— names, addresses 
and phone numbers. Getting such lists can 
be pricey for the small entrepreneur. Until 
now, that is. 

Biz*File (GO YEL) from American Busi- 
ness Information is a searchable database 
of 10.5 million businesses in the United 
States and Canada, complete with business 
name, full address and telephone number. 
Information is compiled from the local yel- 
low pages, but ABI staffers in Omaha, 
Neb., verily by phone every listing to en- 
sure even greater accuracy. 

There are three ways to search Biz*File: 
by company name, by industry or type of 
business, and by phone number. 

If you want to contact ABC Aluminum 
Inc. but have no idea where it is located, 
you can conduct a search of Biz*File to 
track it down. If a match is found, you'll 
receive a full profile that includes address, 
phone, type of business, a six-digit SIC 
code, when it first started advertising in 
the yellow pages and the size of its ad — bits 
of information that tell a lot about a com- 
pany. 

You also can search by industry or type 
of business by entering a descriptive key- 
word, such as COMPUTER or RESTAU- 
RANT. When you enter a general term, 
such as COMPUTER, you'll receive a menu 



of options to help you narrow your search 
that will include Computer Furniture, 
Computer Graphics, Computer Program- 
ming Service, Computer Software, Com- 
puter Timesharing Services and more, 

"Without a doubt, Biz*File is the ulti- 
mate way to locate a business quickly and 
cost-effectively," says Bill Chasse of Ameri- 
can Business Information. "It's a powerful 
database, but searching is simple." 

Best of all, it is less expensive than 
using directory assistance and you don't 
need to know a company's location to find 
it. 

Small-business owners can use Biz*File 
as a marketing maneuver to develop short 
mailing lists of 25 to 30 potential clients. If 
you just wrote the Great American Soft- 
ware Program and want to market it your- 
self, use Biz*File to generate a list of com- 
puter software resellers in a specific 
location. 

You also can use Biz*File to target busi- 
nesses to help you do long-distance shop- 
ping and travel planning. For instance, if 
you want to send flowers to your sister, 
congratulating her on the birth of your new 
nephew, you can use Biz*File to quickly 
locate a florist near her home and order the 
flowers yourself, saving the extra charges a 
florist in your city would charge. 

Biz*File carries a surcharge of 25 cents 
per minute. 




"We've had customers from several countries 
contact us via CompuServe for various com- 
puter and office items. These are sales we 
never would have known about had it not 
been for CompuServe." 

Networking is another effective market- 
ing tool for the new business person. Ronald 
A. Frano, executive director of the American 
Small Business Association, is so convinced 
networking is one of the best ways to market, 
that the association has set up a private 
forum on CompuServe for its members to 
electronically exchange ideas, buy and sell 
products and services among themselves, 
and access information on small-business 
programs offered by the US Small Business 
Association and other government agencies. 

The ASBA XChange also will serve as 
an international network, linking entrepre- 
neurs from around the world. Several Afri- 
can countries have expressed interest in 
joining, and once the former Eastern Bloc 
nations are computer literate, Frano wants 



16 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Chatsworth, Ga.'s Front Porch Computers started 

to include them in the XChange. "Our mem- 
bers can talk to others with similar prob- 
lems, get solid advice and never even have to 
walk out their front doors," says Frano. 

Although many small-business owners 
join their local Chambers of Commerce, it is 
easy to get lost in the crowd of big busi- 
nesses. "The little guy gets buried in that 
type of organization. He doesn't end up talk- 
ing to the people he needs to talk to — people 
doing the same thing he is doing. This forum 
allows that interaction and exchange of 
ideas," he says. 

Using networking to cooperate rather 
than compete is the result of Afroditi Price's 
efforts to successfully free-lance as a parale- 
gal. She operates her Trial Prep: Text & 
Visuals, a paralegal support firm, from her 
Berkeley, Calif., home. When she started out, 
she called all the paralegals and attorneys 
she knew and followed up with letters. 
Rather than compete with other free-lance 
paralegals, Price organized the disparate 



with the clever name and advertisements in online classifieds: Jeff and Mary Freeman 



individuals by co-founding the California 
Association of Freelance Paralegals. The 
group helps its members market their ser- 
vices, publishes a directory and provides a 
free referral service for the 
legal community. 

Once you've established a 
business and want to expand, 
your marketing plans should reflect your 
experienced status in the marketplace by 
zeroing in on specific goals. Unlike the novice 
entrepreneur who usually takes any work 
that pays, expanding entrepreneurs should 
define and focus their marketing strategy for 
the greatest success. Find a niche and fill it. 

Mike Walker of Scottsdale, Ariz., did just 
that when he expanded his public relations 
agency. "I looked at the PR climate and 
clutter in Phoenix and decided instead to 
make my mark in the outdoor recreation 
business," he says. 

The ploy worked. Clients for the 10-year- 
old firm that is now grossing $3.5 million 



FEATURE 



annually include Yamaha Motor Corp., 
Lowrance & Eagle Marine Electronics, Co- 
lumbia Sportswear, 3M Scientifics Anglers, 
3M Sportsman's Video Collection, Shimano 
Fishing Tackle and 35 inde- 
pendent boat builders. The 
Walker Agency boasts 14 em- 
ployees with two offices in two 
states and was named in 1988 to Inc. maga- 
zine's list of 500 fastest-growing companies 
in the United States. And it all began in 
Walker's home. 

He uses CompuServe to market and man- 
age his business. "I'm online daily, some- 
times twice, to keep up with the outdoor 
writers in the Outdoors Forum. I regularly 
upload our press releases. I buy stories from 
the writers and download them for use in 
Escape from the Outdoors, a radio program 
we barter to 400 stations daily, six days a 
week," Walker says. 

Going global is a whole new marketing 
challenge, but one that can provide rich 



MARCH 1992 ■ 17 



Office Electronics: What You Need, What You Don't 



A small business, whether inside or out- 
side the home, requires a reasonable invest- 
ment in business equipment, such as a com- 
puter, a modem, a fax machine, a copier, an 
answering machine and perhaps a small- 
business phone system. With a little smart 
planning, these tools should last well into the 
next century. 

The Phone 

With the preponderance of fax machines 
and modems in most business arsenals, your 
phone system is the link that ties you to the 
outside world. You will need at least two or 
three phone lines depending on your busi- 
ness. Line 1 should be dedicated to home 
calls; line 2 is for business voice use; and line 
3 could be used solely for fax/modem commu- 
nication. If you use your fax or modem only 
once or twice a day, you can get away with a 
fax switcher/router tied into your business 
voice line. 

If your budget doesn't allow for a business 
phone system, you can buy a two- or three- 
line phone for your office. Models from 
Panasonic and others provide speaker phone, 
memory dialing, conference calling, answer- 
ing functions and other amenities in a single 
unit. Southwestern Bell has a two-line phone 
(Model FD-8100) that features alphanumeric 
memory dialing. 

If you need a more flexible arrangement, 
check out the new small phone systems that 
use your home's existing wiring. Many of 
these units offer such features as paging, 
intercom, music-on-hold, conference calling, 
privacy modes, speed-dialing and speaker 
phone capabilities. In most cases, these sys- 
tems use a master phone that communicates 
with up to 12 extension phones via one to 
four pairs of loop-through wiring. Some 
units, such as the AT&T System 2000 can 
even use single-line wiring to transmit two 
lines to up to five extension phones. Other 
manufacturers to look for are Southwest 
Bell, Panasonic, BellSouth and Northwest 
Bell. Prices for these systems vary, but ex- 
pect to pay between $200 and $300 for the 
master phone, and $100 to $200 for each 
extension phone. 

If you want a system that will grow with 
your business, consider a dedicated small- 
business phone system. These units require 
"home-run" wiring from each extension 
phone to the master KSU (Key System Unit 
— a main control box used in most business 
systems), so it's always best to install the 
wiring when building or remodeling an exist- 
ing structure. However, a good installer can 
work with your current home, and hide the 
wiring from sight. 

The advantages these dedicated systems 



afford are numerous. Many permit not only 
the addition of extra phone lines or exten- 
sions when you need to expand but some also 
allow the connection of a door-phone. De- 
pending on the system, you'll get features 
such as call restriction, account code tagging 
(where you can attach a special code to your 
clients' calls for billing and then print a 
special report), call forwarding, automatic 
attendant routing, data line security (a must 
for modem or fax use), call timers and more. 
The Panasonic Key Systems are popular not 
only because they have more features but 
also because they allow you to use any stan- 
dard phone, fax or modem on any extension. 
This way you can save money and add exten- 
sion phones as you can afford them. Pricing 
for dedicated systems varies, but expect $400 
to $1,900 for the KSU, and $100 to $250 for 
each extension phone. 




Copiers are low-maintenance: Canon's PC6RE 

Answering and Fax Machines 

When it comes to choosing an answering 
machine, make sure you buy a two-line unit. 
Even if you have only one line now, you might 
want to add an extra line later. The machine 
can handle family calls on one line and 
business calls on the other. The device should 
have the ability to store two separate outgo- 
ing messages (OGMs) — one for home calls 
and the other for business calls. Almost all 
answerers these days have beeperless re- 
mote control, and the ability to remotely 
change your OGM when the need arises. 
Some units can even call you or your pager at 
a preprogrammed phone number to alert you 
that messages have been recorded. 

Due to plummeting price tags, fax ma- 
chines and the more recently introduced fax 
boards for computers are becoming more 
popular. Be sure to purchase a fax machine 
with both an automatic paper cutter, and a 
multisheet document feeder. Models with 
these features are priced at $650 and up. 



Other amenities to look for include auto- 
matic fax routing or switching that senses 
when an incoming call is either a fax, modem 
or voice call, and routes the transmission 
accordingly; and broadcast capability, where 
the machine can send the same document to 
numerous different phone numbers. 

If your budget permits, look at the new 
plain-paper fax machines. These thermal or 
laser-based units sell for about $1,400 to 
$3,000, but they are the most convenient to 
use and handle large volume work loads 
most easily. If you already have a fax ma- 
chine, you can purchase a plain-paper receiv- 
ing unit that connects to your laser printer 
for about $700 to $1,000. Fax boards work 
quite well; however, you must leave your 
computer on to receive documents. While 
some brands work in the background, they 
do tend to tie up your machine. 

Copiers 

The latest personal copiers are less ex- 
pensive, require little maintenance and offer 
many features. No matter which brand you 
choose, make sure the unit has reduction/ 
enlargement capability. Although you might 
not think this is important now, later on you 
will need this feature. Also, if space is a 
problem, check out the mid- to upper-end of 
the Canon PC line. These copiers feature 
stationary platens in a fairly compact enclo- 
sure. Expect to pay between $750 and $1,000 
for a good copier. 

Finally, there's nothing worse than rely- 
ing on a single unit that does everything and 
losing all functionality should the device 
need servicing. Basically, this refers to fax 
machines with a built-in answering machine 
and copier functions. For this reason, buy 
each unit separately. In addition, when buy- 
ing a personal computer, make sure it has 
plenty of expansion capability — i.e., extra 
space for additional boards, memory and 
disk drives. If possible, stay away from mo- 
dem cards that you can't easily transport 
from machine to machine. External modems 
are your best bet. 

For more information on copiers, phone 
systems, fax and answering machines, visit 
the Consumer Electronics Forum (GO 
CEFORUM). Likewise, information regard- 
ing computers or fax boards can be found in 
the IBM Hardware Forum (GO IBMHW) or 
the Apple forums (GO MAUG). 

Dawn Gordon has published more than 350 articles on 
consumer electronic:; for such publications as Rolling Stone, 
Playboy, Billboard, Stereo Review, Video, Popular Science 
and The New York Post She is the founder and manager of 
the Consumer Electronics Forum on CompuServe. 



18 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



results — and you don't have to be a daredevil 
to succeed. One low-risk international mar- 
keting maneuver is to link up 
with another company that 
will do much of the advertis- 
ing for you. 

Grant Slinger owns the Chicago firm 
Brykant (USA) Inc., which imports fine- 
quality hand-knits from Scotland, Ireland 
and Wales and sells them mail-order through 
The Celtic Catalogue. To take advantage of 
the lucrative Japanese market, Slinger is 
working with Donnely Directory, which pub- 
lishes a directory of American mail-order 
houses complete with full-page advertise- 
ments. The orders are taken by an agent in 
Japan and sent electronically or by fax to 
each mail-order firm. "We receive our orders 
via CompuServe Mail," says Slinger. "It's less 
expensive, quicker by far, and any relevant 
messages concerning the market or new op- 
portunities can be exchanged at the same 
time. Besides, it offers a personal contact 
with our Japanese agent." 

To explore the European market, Slinger 
first conducts extensive research on Compu- 
Serve, using the Executive News Service, 
Magazine Database Plus, Newspaper Li- 
brary and a number of forums. "I look out for 
company releases on new products, expan- 
sion or anything that I think would be mar- 
ketable in Europe," he says. With two broth- 
ers in the United Kingdom, Slinger taps 
their expertise and geographic location to 
contact the company and discuss joint ven- 
tures and exporting opportunities. 

"The advice I would give others is just do 
it! Procrastination is the killer. CompuServe 
gives you an edge, so use it," says Slinger. 

Taking that edge to create an opportunity 
is all part of the entrepreneurial spirit. 
Whether your dream is to start a small, 
home-based business or expand an estab- 
lished company beyond your own borders, it 
can happen with the right mix of brains, 
creativity, technology and guts. 

And with CompuServe, you're never 
alone. Michele McCormick, chief of MMC 
Communications, credits online support with 
giving her the determination to open her own 
public relations firm. 



FEATURE 



"The Public Relations and Marketing Fo- 
rum gave me the final boost of confidence 
essential to going out on my 
own. I never felt alone. I knew 
dozens of helpful, expert 
friends were right there at 
any time, waiting to pull me out should I 
accidentally fall in too deep," she says. "That 
safety net has made a big difference in the 
way I've approached my business." 

Cathryn Conroy is senior writer for CompuServe Magazine. 
Her CompuServe User ID number is 70007,417. 



ASBA's Private 
Business XChange 

Members of the American Small Business 
Association can use the new ASBA XChange, 
a private CompuServe forum, to learn more 
about running a small business. Not only is 
expert information from ASBA offered, but 
also other entrepreneurs worldwide are 
online, providing a unique opportunity to net- 
work. 

In addition to the forum, frequent updates 
on pending federal legislation pertinent to 
entrepreneurs is offered, as well a listing of 
US Navy contracts small businesses can bid 
on. 

Membership in ASBA is $110 annually, 
$20 of which goes to the local chapter. There is 
also a $20 fee for the CompuServe software 
and User ID number needed to access ASBA 
XChange. Only members of ASBA can partic- 
ipate in the XChange. For information, call 
800/ASBA911. 



READ ALL ABOUT IT 
EVEN BEFORE 
IT'S IN PRINT. 

This industry moves fast. If you want to be informed about it just as fast, 
use ZiffNet. The on-line information service about computing. You'll find 
the top 30 stories from PC Week and MacWEEK, plus the complete text 
of Spencer Katt and Mac the Knife. Every Friday night before they're 
published. Along with NewsBytes, 
the daily global industry news 
service. To get more information 
about how to sign up, simply call 
ZiffNet at 1-800-666-0330. Because 
when you're on-line, you're up-to-date. All ABOUT COMPUTING ON-LINE 

CompuServe and ZiffNet members type GO ZNT:INDUSTRY ©1 992 Ziff Communications. 




GO OLI for more information. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 19 



by Wendy M. Grossman 




UK Computing Forum's dynamic sysop duo tend bar in the pub-like environs: Manners & Johnson 



Bring on the Brits 

Coronation Street, Britain's longest running 
TV soap opera. The Pub is volatile: a mes- 
sage posted there asking for comments for 
this article spontaneously combusted into 
discussions of the practicalities of dual citi- 
zenship, allergies to peanuts and the quality 
of UK computer magazines. 

Although the character of the UK Com- 
puting Forum was formed by Manners and 
Johnson after they took it over last May, the 
forum was born in January 1991, when 
AT&T Istel closed down the MicroLink ser- 
vice. MicroLink members were offered free 
introductory memberships and a couple of 
hours' worth of usage credit for CompuServe, 
plus a month's free access to the new forum. 
Recently, a similar offer was made to mem- 
bers of the now defunct Micronet, which was 
part of British Telecom's videotex online ser- 
vice, Prestel. 

Many former MicroLink and Micronet 
members already knew Manners and 
Johnson, who ran PC support areas on those 
services. Manners and Johnson themselves 
met through Micronet more than four years 
ago, after both bought the first inexpensive 
PC available in the UK, the Amstrad 1512, 
the day it came out. They also have a com- 
pany, Powerline, through which they build 
PCs and sell modems, supply the cover disks 
for the UK magazine PC Today, and run a 
large bulletin board called DirectLine. 
Manners and Johnson like to meet in 



COMPUTING 
SERVICES 



CM's Computing Services Credo: 

For those who call out for advice, 
answers, even mere companionship 
in a discomfiting computer world, 
we throw you the online rope that 
connects to the main. No man is 
an island unto himself. Herein the 
Control-G tolls for thee. 

T 

Regal Support 

T 

UK Files, p. 22 

T 

AtariNet's Tenth, p. 23 

T 

Shareware's Button, 
page 26 



► An English odd couple hosts a mix 
of lively pub prattle and tech talk 
in the UK Computing Forum. 

They're an unlikely pair. Steve Manners 
likes to wear suits and ties; Andy Johnson 
likes to wear jeans, T-shirts and those 
jackets the British call "anoraks." Man- 
ners votes Conservative, thinks Marg- 
aret Thatcher is "brilliant," and hates 
labor unions. Johnson votes Labor, 
thinks Margaret Thatcher was one of 
the worst disasters ever to befall Brit- 
ain, and is a trade union official. Man- 
ners sells cheese (minimum order: one 
ton) for Express Foods, a subsidiary of 
Grand Metropolitan, the company that 
owns Burger King; Johnson is a train 
driver for British Rail. And yet, to- 
gether they run the UK Computing 
Forum (GO UKFORUM), the largest 
and most active of CompuServe's Euro- 
pean forums. 

The UK Computing Forum is more 
like a British local pub than it is like 
any other forum on CompuServe. 
While it has specialist support areas 
for UK-based manufacturers such as 
Amstrad and Psion run by a staff of 
expert sysops, the forum has a strong 
social and personal orientation. 

Lively, not to say heated, argument 
is typical, particularly in the section called 
Rovers Return Pub, named for the pub in 



20 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



London Calling: UK, European Areas 



person the people they meet online. To this 
end, they run what they call "meets" about 
four times a year; the most recent one was 
held on Dec. 8 at a shooting club in 
Oxfordshire and was planned to coincide 
with the. Computer Shopper Show, held that 
weekend in London. They invite everyone 
from all the online services they're involved 
with to the meets, which typically feature a 
room full of computers and online demon- 
strations of CompuServe. 

Manners and Johnson aren't the only 
sysops involved with the forum. Five assis- 
tant sysops, who read all of the 200 to 300 
messages that come into the forum each day, 
also contribute from their areas of expertise. 
Cliff Lawson, a private pilot and amateur 
bell ringer, has worked for Amstrad for more 
than seven years designing computers and 
writing software. Terry Love, a BT software 
engineer, has extensive knowledge of BBC 
computers (no relation to the British Broad- 
casting Corp). 

David Moore, a pilot for Rolls Royce and 
an Amiga/ST user for many years, logs from 
all over the world, wherever he happens to be 
flying the company's executive jet. Nigel Pea- 
cock is a bookkeeper and, in addition to 
running the business section, has written 
and uploaded a number of popular files on 
such topics as UK tax information. 

Finally, Warwick University mathemati- 
cian John Rawnsley has extensive Macintosh 
experience.While CompuServe has many 
other Mac support sections, he believes Ap- 
ple's lower penetration in the UK market 
means that British users need more help. 

Rawnsley's mathematical interests are in 
tune with another major forum topic: num- 
bers. The longest running thread in the fo- 
rum, known as "Mystic Algebra," ran to 335 
messages between June 30 and Aug. 18. It 
has now been immortalized in an archived 



The heart of CompuServe is still very 
much technical support, and most of the 
new European forums and sections reflect 
this. However, there's more to it than that. 
Many Europeans are not used to online 
services, and may find CompuServe intim- 
idating at first. For British first-timers, 
being able to type FIND UK and wind up in 
the UK Computing Forum helps them feel 
part of the CompuServe community. 

Here's a guide to other European fo- 
rums and sections currently available on 
CompuServe: 

UK Shareware Forum (GO UK- 
SHARE) — Support forum with a commer- 
cial orientation and managed by several 
UK-based shareware publishers. Most of 
the message areas support specific prod- 
ucts or publishers; however, Steve's Lounge 
is a general discussion area, and Flame On! 
is for heated arguments. 

PC Plus Online (GO PCPLUS) 
— Support service for readers of PC Plus, a 
leading UK PC magazine. Includes the PC 
Plus Forum (GO PCPFORUM) where read- 
ers can discuss the magazine and download 
many of the programs reviewed. Also in- 
cludes Top 10 downloads and a news area. 

IBM European Users Forum (GO 



IBMEURO)— Primarily a technical sup- 
port forum, but because it's the most inter- 
national of the forums, lots of helpful ad- 
vice is available on such topics as dealing 
with different phone companies and which 
German hotels are modem-friendly. 

Nantucket GmbH (GO NTD or GO 
NANGMBH) — German language support 
forum for Nantucket products Clipper and 
Nantucket Tools. 

Microsoft Central Europe (GO MSF) 
— German language support for Microsoft 
products, primarily programming lan- 
guages, LAN Manager and developers' 
tools. 

Markt & Technik (GO MTD)— 

German language forum for readers of PC 
Magazin, Computer Live and Computer 
Personlich, German magazines from the 
publisher of Dr. Dobbs' Journal. A display 
area provides computer industry news 
written in German. 

Two more German language forums are 
planned for early this year. One is a sup- 
port forum for Borland/Ashton-Tate prod- 
ucts; the other is a support forum for 
Germany's leading modem manufacturer, 
Dr. Neuhaus. 

—WMG 




YOUR Rx FOR 
HEALTH AND FITNESS 
INFORMATION 



Whatever your questions about fitness and health, 
Health Database Plus™ has the answers. You'll find the latest 

information about: 

▲ nutrition and dieting 

▲ exercise and fitness 
▲ sports medicine 

▲ prevention, symptoms, and treatment of illness 
A drugs and their side effects 
▲ medical procedures and tests 

Health Database Plus provides instant access to more than 70,000 
articles from the best health and fitness publications along with health-related 
articles from leading consumer magazines. Health Database Plus 
is the leading information resource for everybody interested in health! 

▲ Type GO HLTDB at any ! prompt on CompuServe, ZiffNet, 
or ZMac to find just what you're looking for. 



Information Access 



COMPANY 



GO OLI for more information. 

MARCH 1992 ■ 21 



Teapots, Travel Hps and Mystic Algebra: Files from UK Forums 



Using European-made equipment and 
wondering where to find support and utility 
programs? Relying on out-of-date travel 
guides for advice on restaurants, hotels and 
customs regulations? Trust your local, na- 
tive guides. The following files should help. 

From the UK Computing Forum 
(GO UKFORUM). 

Tea-making Instructions— Two reci- 
pes for making the perfect (British) pot of 
tea, Library 1, "General & Library Info," 
TEA.TXT. 

Standard Dialing Code Finder- 
Complete listings of UK domestic and inter- 
national telephone codes ordered by both 
area and number, including the 1990 dial- 
ing codes for London. PC version, Library 1, 
STD.ZIP; Amiga version, Library 7, "Amiga/ 
ST," STD.LZH. 

Mystic Algebra — UK Forum's longest- 
running message thread, a discussion of 
whether the infinitely repeating decimal 
3.9999 ... is or is not equal to 4. Not for the 
faint-hearted. Library 1, MYSTIC.ZIP. 

Windows Utility — Shows current Win- 
dows mode as an icon. Written by Assistant 
Sysop Cliff Lawson. Library 3, "DOS and 
Windows," CPUMOD.ZIP. 

Dr. Who Tiles for Mah Jongg— -Tile set 
featuring the Daleks and other characters 
from the long-running BBC TV show seen 
in the United States on PBS. Use with 
MAHJ35.ZIP, available in the same library. 
Library 3, WHOTIL.ZIP. 

Psion II Utility— Adds question marks 
and apostrophes to the British-made Psion 
Organiser II; unpack the program on a PC 
and transfer it to the Psion to run it. Li- 
brary 6, "Psion & Z88," NEWKEY.ZIP. 



Music Maker for the UK-made Acorn 
BBC Micro — How to turn your computer 
into a fairground organ. Library 8, "BBC," 
BBIOLI.ARC. 

Application Switcher for Apple Sys- 
tem 7 — Freeware written by UK author 
Jeremy Roussak allows menu- and key- 
driven cycling through open applications. 
Library 9, "Apple," APSW7.SIT. 

UK Tax Rates for 1991-92— Summary 
of rates of all forms of UK tax, including 
VAT, capital gains, income and personal 
pensions. Library 10, "Business," TAX.TXT. 

Cricket Primer — Explanation of the 
British game of cricket, including how 
scores are determined. Library 12, "Sport," 
PRIMER.TXT. 

Pictures of Forum Regulars — Taken 
at the last meet and scanned in. See Andy 
Johnson talk to Lew Lewis, well-known 
BBC actor. Library 13. "Graphics," 
LEWAND.GIF. 

UK Travel Information — Six comma- 
delimited files for import into spreadsheets 
or databases that cover UK airports, Lon- 
don restaurants, motorway service areas, 
and several hotel and restaurant chains. 
Library 14, "UK Info," UKTRAV.ZIP. 

Traveling with Laptop Computers — 
Long-running message thread that includes 
everything from diagrams for telephone 
connections to shops that stock the neces- 
sary components. Library 14, UKLAP.TXT. 

Game to Teach Visitors UK Road 
Signs—Be safe, and be sure you know the 
highway code before you start driving on 
the left. Library 14, ROADS.ZIP. 



From UK Share Forum 
(GO UKSHARE): 

Full-featured Communications 
Package— The latest version (1.5) of Odys- 
sey, written by Scottish shareware pro- 
grammer Don Milner. Library 5, "UK Au- 
thors," ODY150.ZIP. 

UK Accounting Program — Page Fi- 
nancial Controller, a menu-driven inte- 
grated package including nominal ledger, 
stock control, job costing and bill of materi- 
als. Shareware. Library 5, PAGE.ZIP. 

Multiuser Bulletin Board— Supports 
up to four comm ports, plus FidoNet Mail; 
written in A86 assembly language. Library 
5, MERLIN.EXE. 

From IBM European Users Forum 
(GO IBMEURO): 

Survivor's Guide to Traveling with a 
Modem — Complete information for going 
online on the road in Europe. Library 7, 
"Help," TRAVEL.ZIP or TRAVEL.KIT. 

Historical Calendar Program — Dis- 
plays Julian, Gregorian and other early 
calendars. Library 9, "Entertainment," 
HIST.ZIP. 

Empire Game — Manage your medieval 
estate and survive famines, wars and assas- 
sination attempts. In French. Library 9, 
EMPIRE.ZIP. 

Language Logic Game— Game of 
logic played in French, English, Swedish, 
Italian, German, Dutch or Russian (the 
latter only for a Cyrillic Windows version). 
Requires Windows 3.0. Freeware. Library 9, 
LOGIC.ZIP. 

—WMG 



file (Library 1, "General and 
Library Info," MYSTIC.ZIP). 
The discussion, started by 
Dennis Lefebvre, revolved 
around whether the infinitely repeating dec- 
imal 3.999 ... is equal to 4. 

Moving from the esoteric to the practical, 
many members use the forum for travel 
information. British members regularly ad- 
vise prospective visitors to the United King- 
dom on hotels, restaurants and what's on in 
London theaters. Also practical is news cov- 
erage. The American and British press, for 
example, don't get the same news at the 
same time or from the same slant. Exchang- 
ing information about such events as the 
Gulf War and the death of media tycoon 
Robert Maxwell has enabled members to get 
the best of both news services. 

But for many members, the social and 
British element is the main attraction. UK- 



COMPUTING 
SERVICES 



based Ray Parnell, for exam- 
ple, who moved to Compu- 
_ Serve when Micronet shut 
down, likes the broad range of 
participants and the fact that computers are 
not the only topic of discussion. "The ability 
to converse in (near) real-time with people 
around the world while retaining a British 
slant on things," he said in a message posted 
in the Pub, "is perhaps what made me plump 
for the UK Forum over and above the rest." 
Digging slyly at American readers, he added, 
"Perhaps what I find most enjoyable is the 
ability to further the education of those 
'across the pond'." 

For British expatriates, the forum also 
provides a taste of home (sometimes liter- 
ally). Dave Watkins has managed to get back 
to the UK only three times, for two weeks 
each, in the last seven years. He says, "I miss 
hearing day-to-day tidbits of information 



about the 'motherland.' Since I discovered 
the UK Forum about two months ago, that 
void has been filled." 

A number of the regulars describe them- 
selves as addicted. Says Tom Jones, "I can't 
go more than 24 hours without having my 
daily 'fix'." Similarly, former Micronet mem- 
ber Pete Hall says the forum has taken over 
his social life and filled up his hard disk with 
messages — at 200 a day, they add up fast. 

But, says Hall, no other forum on Compu- 
Serve is comparable. "Where else could the 
same thread contain messages about quan- 
tum mechanics and whether the light goes 
out when you close the fridge door?" 

Wendy M. Grossman is founder and former editor of The 
Skeptic magazine (UK) and a free-lance writer and 
folksinger. Her CompuServe User ID number is 70007,5537. 



22 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



by Michael Naver 



Ten for Atari 



k Users of computerdom's perennial 
~ underdog mark a decade online. 

As veteran Atari forum members tell the 
story, it was a classic example of the gener- 
osity and closeness of the Atari forum com- 
munity on CompuServe: One member, immo- 
bilized in a body cast for three months after a 
car accident, was keeping in touch with the 
outside world through messages from his 
colleagues on the Atari ST Forum. 

It was perhaps the most dramatic but 
otherwise characteristic example of the loy- 
alty members express as they mark the 10th 
anniversary of Atari forums on CompuServe 
(GO ATARINET). 

Looking back on it now, the accident vic- 
tim, Dave Groves, then an assistant sysop, 
says the time and closeness spent with the 
staff and members made the forums a home 
away from home. This sense of family has 
characterized the Atari forums from the be- 
ginning, in the fall of 1981, when the original 
(and current) forum manager, Ron Luks, 
along with two other pioneers, started the 
Atari 8-bit Forum. 

"Atari computer users have been the un- 
derdogs of the computing world from day 
one," says Luks, The forum was the only 
place people could go to get support for Atari 
machines. Users tend to develop an intense 
loyalty to the machines and to each other." 

The family spirit is matched by a strong 
independent streak. "We support the prod- 
ucts, and at times have not been very popu- 



lar with the company," says Luks. "Our cur- 
rent relations with the company, however, 
are the best in years." 

Luks remembers his own introduction to 
Atari — as a stock/options trader in a Wall 
Street brokerage firm in 1981. He was plan- 
ning to buy an IBM PC until he saw the Atari 
800 running a game called Star Raiders. 

"I was so mesmerized by the game that I 
bought the Atari, Figuring I would play with 
it until I got a serious machine," recalls Luks. 
"But that old 8-bit machine did everything I 
needed, so I never bought the IBM." 

With his modem and CompuServe intro- 
ductory membership packet, Luks soon was 
telecommunicating in an Atari section of the 
Popular Electronics Forum. A few months 
later, he was called upon to manage the first 
Atari forum on CompuServe, called infor- 
mally "Sig* Atari." 

A second pioneer, Michael Reichmann, of 
Toronto, remembers CompuServe was spon- 
soring a promotion in Toronto. He bought a 
300-baud modem and "got hooked." 

"There was something very clubby about 
the Atari community in the early '80s that 
was unique," he says. "If you had an Atari, 
you knew you had a great machine, but the 
rest of the world didn't. It was a tightly knit 
group of a few hundred people, and 80 per- 
cent of us hung around Sig* Atari." 

At the time Reichmann was a vice presi- 
dent of the Canadian Press news agency. "My 
background was in photography, so graphics 




Never needed a 'serious machine': Luks 

was important. Back in '81 the Atari 800 was 
the whiz-bang graphics computer. With 
CompuServe, he was able to correspond with 
Atari software developers throughout the 
United States and Canada. 

The third founder, Steve Ahlstrom, of 
Littleton, Colo., recalls, "All of us were dis- 
covering not only the Atari computer but also 
the power of telecommunications. We came 
from vastly different walks of life, but be- 
came close because of our common interest." 

Ahlstrom served as an assistant Atari 
sysop for five years, where he, too, found 
business opportunities writing Atari soft- 
ware. Later he became manager of the Amiga 
forums, where he can be found today. 

Ahlstrom was not the only Atari forum 
pioneer to branch out to other CompuServe 
forums. Groves' story of his car accident is 
another example. 

A resident of Miami, Groves was driving 
home from his job as a bank vice president 
when he fell unconscious at the wheel, the 
result of faulty diabetes medication. He hit 
another car on the expressway at 65 miles an 
hour. After three months in a body cast, he 
spent nine months in therapy. It was during 
this time that Groves felt the support and 
loyalty of his fellow Atari forum members. 
The accident led Groves to establish the 
Diabetes and Hypoglycemia Forum (GO DI- 
ABETES) three years ago to share informa- 
tion to prevent accidents like his. 

The Atari ST is still Groves' computer of 



Eight Bits of History: Atari Timeline 



1980 

8-bit Atari machines 
supported in Atari 
section of Popular 
Electronics Forum. 



1981 

Atari 8-bit Forum 
opens, called 
"Sig'Atari." 



1985 

Atari ST introduced. 
Section for it opens 
in Sig*Atari, then 
Atari ST Forum opens. 
Atari Developers 
Forum opens. 



1987 

Atari ST Forum 
reorganized into Atari 
ST Productivity 
Forum, Atari ST Arts 
Forum and Atari 
Vendors Forum, 



1989 

Atari Portfolio Forum 
opens to support the 
Atari Portfolio palmtop 
computer. Atari File 
Finder opens, permit- 
ting quick searches 
for all forum files. 



1992 

AtariNet forums 
include 8-bit, ST 
Productivity, ST Arts, 
Atari Vendors and 
Portfolio Forums. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 23 



Sysops' Picks: Atari Forum Files 



Of the hundreds of files in the Atari 
forum libraries, the forum managers have 
selected those listed below as the cream of 
the crop. They're free or inexpensive, and 
they're ready for downloading. 

"These files were chosen because of their 
enduring popularity and because they illus- 
trate the range of possible applications on 
the different classes of Atari machines," 
says Ron Luks, manager of the Atari 
forums. You're invited to try them. 

ATARI 8-BIT FORUM (GO ATARI8) 

DOS Customize! - — Customizes screen 
color and (on XL/XE) keyboard rates, scroll 
rate, alternate character set. Library 3, 
"System Utilities," DOSCUS.ALF. 

Extractor — Stand-alone archived file 
extractor. Library 3, UNARC.COM. 

Picture Show— Displays pictures 
created in any of the "classic" Atari 
formats. Library 4, "Graphics/RLE/PICs," 
OMLOAD.XMO. 

Textpro — Could be the best word pro- 
cessor available for the Atari Classic. 
Shareware. Library 5, "Productivity Soft- 
ware," TPD45*.ARC. 

Create Music— Atari Music System, 
a popular format for many years in creat- 
ing music files that can be played back 
on an Atari. Library 6. "Sound & Music," 
THPLYR.ARC. 

Music Processor— Antic Music Proces- 
sor, a more recent development from Antic. 
Can display lyrics as well as music. Library 
6, AMP2.ARC. 

Stud Poker — Machine language stud 
poker, with many variations. Library 10, 
"Games/Entertainment," STDPOK.ALF. 

Bacterion — Arcade game from Analog 
puts you in control of a miniaturized vehicle 
seeking to zap invading bacteria. Library 
10, BACTER.XMO, 



Maze War— Arcade game for one to four 
players. Small, fast and great fun. Library 
10, MAZWAR.XMO. 

Turbo BASIC— A new BASIC, written 
in Europe, and released in the public do- 
main. Compatible with programs written in 
Atari BASIC. Library 14, "Programming 
Aids," TBAS*.ARC. 

ATARI ST ARTS FORUM 
(GO ATARIART) 

Arcade Game — A freeware version of 
the popular arcade game Robotron, called 
Llamatron. The 1MB version has extended 
sound capabilities. Library 2, "Games," 
TRON*.LZH. 

Picswitch — John Brochu's picture for- 
mat converter/viewer. Library 14, "Viewers/ 
Utilities," PICSW7.ARC. 

Draw Program — Robert Birmingham's 
freeware drawing program for the Atari ST. 
Library 14, ART232.ARC. 

Newsletters — Two popular weekly elec- 
tronic newsletters in their fifth year of 
online publishing. Library 15, "News and 
Reviews," contains issues of ST-Report and 
Z*Net Online. 

ATARI ST PRODUCTIVITY FORUM 
(GO ATARIPRO) 

Virus Killer — A floppy disk virus de- 
tection/fix program. Library 4, "Utilities," 
VKILLR.LZH. 

Diskcopy — A file reader/converter/ 
editor with ARC/unARC capabilities. Li- 
brary 4, DCOP36.ARC. 

ARCSHELL— Version 2.6 of this 
mouse-driven shell for using the ARC and 
LHARC (LZHl utilities. Shareware. Library 
4, ARCSHL.ARC. 

Showit — DC Showit version 1.1 by Dou- 
ble Click Software. Freeware program re- 
places the GEM desktop Show/Print file 



routines, improves file viewer routines and 
displays many Atari ST picture formats on 
the screen. Library 4, DCSHW1.ARC. 

Archiver — ARC utility, version 6.02, 
supports archiving of entire subdirectories. 
IBM compatible, for all ST ARC files. Li- 
brary 4, ARC602.TTP. 

Compression — Questor's LHARC util- 
ity program uses the more efficient LZH 
format. Compatible with MS-DOS versions. 
Library 4, LH201H.LZH. 

VDOS— A replacement to the Atari ST's 
GEMDOS program. A series of four files 
including detailed documentation. Share- 
ware. Library 6, "Accessories and Setups," 
VDOS* .ARC. 

ATARI PORTFOLIO FORUM 
(GO APORTFOLIO) 

XTERM — Telecommunications program 
for the Portfolio by Jim Straus. This 
freeware program allows you to access 
CompuServe and other networks, and sup- 
ports XMODEM file transfers. Library 2, 
"Communications," XTERM2.COM. 

Extractor— PKUNZIP de-archiver ex- 
tracts files on the Portfolio. Library 3, "Util- 
ities," PKUNZI.EXE. 

PBasic — This BASIC interpreter for the 
Atari Portfolio supports the customary com- 
mands and some special Portfolio-only func- 
tions such as MENUs. Library 8, "Program- 
ming," PBAS48.ZIP. 

Graphics Show— Portfolio Graphics 
Show program by Don Messerli gives graph- 
ics capabilities to palmtops. Library 11, 
"Graphics," PGSH21.ZIP. 



choice. "I use it for heavy-duty 
business applications, which 
surprises some people. It is a 
serious business machine." 

Newer forum members — people not 
present at the creation of the 8-bit or ST 
Forums but who have become loyal Atari ST 
users — cite the same community spirit. 

Bill and Pattie Rayl of Ann Arbor, Mich., 
met in college and got an Atari ST as a 
wedding gift three years later. The following 
year, 1987, they joined CompuServe. "Our 
CompuServe experience has meant making a 
lot of friends and business contacts," says 
Pattie. The couple produces a national mag- 
azine for Atari users called Atari Interface, 
one of only two publications for the Atari. 

The Ray Is are unofficial sponsors of the 
twice-weekly conferences — Sunday evenings 



COMPUTING 
SERVICES 



for Atari 8-bit users and 
Thursday evenings for ST us- 
ers. "The sysops take a hands- 
off approach, and let the users 
do their thing," says Pattie. 

Another enthusiast is Jim Ness, a West 
Chicago, 111., motor equipment salesman. In 
1986 he bought an Atari 520 ST, which he 
described as a "basic but competent machine 
with a color monitor and disk drive selling at 
Kmart for about $500." 

Ness began spending time in the Atari ST 
Forum. "I knew that if you could find a group 
of people who used the machine, you could 
find Atari software, plus advice on how to use 
your computer." 

Ness became a hobbyist programmer and 
wrote the only automated access program for 
the Atari, QuickCIS. "Most people who regu- 



larly visit the Atari forums use it," he says. 

Assisting Luks as forum sysops are Mike 
Schoenbach, assistant manager; Dan Rhea, 
Bill Aycock, Keith Joins, Bob Retelle, David 
Ramsden and John Davis, ST sysops; Don 
LeBow and Bob Puff, 8-bit sysops; and Marty 
Mankins, Judy Hamner and B.J. Gleason, 
Portfolio sysops. 

What's ahead for Atari? No one knows for 
sure, but Luks notes that since the days 
when Atari was on the cutting edge as a 
low-cost, high-powered graphics computer, 
there was a dearth of new products for sev- 
eral years. Now significant products are be- 
ing released. As they are available, Atari's 
loyal band on CompuServe will be ready. 

Michael Naver is a contributing editor of CompuServe 
Magazine. His CompuServe User ID number is 76004,2242. 



24 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



THE 




ill 


Mi 


l-LL 



, -V. V".' 
Ik:".:-.' .". 





HIM 



mil 



* # 

V . 




\ 'i 4 .1 

, ...» ' • 1 



WalthStarter , 

CHARLES 





BUDGET WITH 
WEALTHSTARTER FROM 
REALITY SOFTWARE AND 
SAVE SI 5. 



Create a complete budgeting, savings and investing 
system that makes the most of your money with 
this easy-to-use program for the IBM and IBM- 
compatibles. Provides more than 400 pages of 
integrated tutorials on 16 financial and investment 
subjects including stocks, bonds, limited partner- 
ships, retirement and taxes. Learn how to conquer 
the world of personal finance. Imports Quicken data 
right into WealthStarter. 

COMPUTER EXPRESS. GO CE 

mmmimm software 

REGULAR PRICE $59.99 
SALE PRICE $44.89 



SAVE MONEY ON COLLEGE 
WITH PETERSONS 
1982 COLLEGE MONEY 
HANDBOOK. 



Anyone needing information about college costs 
and how to meet them needs this guide. It's the 
only book that gives a full account of costs and 
financial aid at more than 1,700 accredited, four- 
year U.S. and Canadian colleges and universities. 
Includes a questionnaire for Peterson's College 
Quest 8 , the computerized college search and 
financial aid service. 

PETERSON'S CONNEXION. GO PX 
COLLEGE HANDBOOK $19.85 



GET DOUBLE RECALL WITH 
THE ROYAL 

LARGE-DISPLAY PRINTING 
CALCULATOR 



This large, 10-digit display desktop calculator 
is angled for easy viewing. Performs standard 
calculations plus gross profit margin. Two 
independent memories will hold and recall compu- 
tations. Prints in red or black ink on standard 2.25"- 
wide paper. Includes an AC adapter or uses four 
AA batteries. 

SEARS. GO SEARS 
PRNTNG CALCULATOR $39.99 





MAKE CURRENCY 
^ CONVERSIONS A SNAP. 

If you travel overseas, you'll love the Foreign 
Currency Converter. This slender calculator fits 
handily in your wallet or pocket. Programs 
exchange rates to convert U.S. and foreign curren- 
cies instantly with the touch of a button. 



SHARON LUGGAGE AND 6FTS. 
CURRENCY CONVERTER $15 



GOSL 



THE SPRING SALE CONTINUES AT THE 
COMPUSERVE STORE. 

The CompuServe Store offers great prices on doz- 
ens of items including the CompuServe Information 
Manager membership kit for non-members (DOS 
or Macintosh), Navigator software, and a selection 
of handy print guides such as CompuServe AtoZ 
and the Financial Services Users Guide. Look for 
our March specials. 

COMPUSERVE STORE. GO ORDER 

COMPUSERVE HFORMATMN MANAGER MEMBERSHIP 
KIT $39.95 INCLUDES FREE BRIEFCASE) 

FINANCIAL SERVICES USERS GUIDE 

SALE PRICE $15 WITH $19 CONNECT-TIME CREDIT 



PLAY BALL IN THE MALL'S 
GRAND SLAM CONTEST. 

Enter The Mall's Grand Slam contest and you 
could win a trip for two to the 1992 baseball game 
of your choice anywhere in the continental U.S. or 
Canada (subject to availability) or one of more than 
100 other exciting prizes. Enter once each week 
through April 6. To be eligible to win, all you need 
to do is run the bases online. Select "The Mall's 
Grand Slam" for a clue on how to get to first base. 
Each base has a clue on how to get to the next 
base. When you hit home plate, answer that week's 
baseball trivia question correctly and your name 
will be entered automatically in the grand-prize 
drawing. Complete rules online. 

60 MALL 




REQUEST FREE SPRING CATALOGS ONLINE. 



Many Electronic Mall merchants offer shoppers the 
opportunity to request free print catalogs online. 
Stores offering free copies of new Spring catalogs 
include Brooks Brothers (GO BR), Museum of Fine 
Arts, Boston (GO FA), Barnes & Noble (GO BN), 
Penny*Wise Office Products (GO PW), The Chef's 
Catalog (GO CC), Hammacher Schlemmer (GO 
HS), Dalco Computer Electronics (GO DA), Figi's 
(GO FG), Multiple Zones (GO MZ) and Short 




SERVE THE ST. PATRICK'S DAY 
DELIGHT.. .CORNED BEEF BRISKET! 

And what else would you be servin' on the 17th of 
March? Aye, if it's traditional feastin' you have in 
mind, order a magnificent, 3-lb., fully-cooked 
corned beef brisket from Omaha Steaks Interna- 
tional. It will arrive at your door ready to slice 
and serve to all your green-wearin' guests...or 
heat and serve with cabbage for an unforgettable 
Irish meal. Your satisfaction is guaranteed! 

OMAHA STEAKS. GO OS 
ONE 3 LB. BRISKET $34 
TWO 3 LB. BRISKETS $55 



Sizes (GO SS). Visit The Catalog Store (GO CA) 
for more than 40 free catalogs or brochures from 
direct marketers such as J. Crew Clothing, Burger's 
Smokehouse and King-Size Clothing. Fancy Foods 
and Specialty Gifts (GO FANCY) also offers you 
the opportunity to order multiple catalogs, including 
Legal Seafood, Downey's Liqueur Cakes and 
Smithfield Collection Smoked Hams and Turkeys. 



AFTER DINNER, 

SIP ON SOME IRISH CREAM. 

Sip on a cup of genuine Irish Cream coffee from 
America's original computer coffee house, Made 
with Colombian coffee and pure, natural Irish 
Cream flavoring, this delicious coffee contains all 
of the taste with none of the calories! March sale in 
honor of St. Patrick's Day. 



COFFEE ANYONE??? GO COF 
ONE LB. IRISH CREAM 

REGULAR PRICE $7.70 

SALE PRICE 88.95 

ONE LB. HUSH CREAM DECAF 

REGULAR PRICE $8.95 
SALE PRICE $8 

ONE LB. KONA EMERALD CREME 

REGULAR PRICE $10.70 
SALE PRICE $8.63 



Orpheus 



CURL UP WITH AN OSCAR-WINNING FILM. 

It's Academy Award time again. As you get set for 
the last Monday in March when this year's winners 
will be announced, curl up with a classic Oscar- 
winner from years past. Yes! Books & Videos 
offers more than two dozen award-winning films on 
video or laser disc. 



VESI BOOKS AND VIDEOS. GO YB 
GANDHI 
VIDEO SET $29.85 
LASER DISC SET $54.85 

CHARIOTS OF FRE 
VIDEO $19.88 
LASER DKC $34.98 
HKHAKHW 
VIDEO $18.85 
LASER DSC $48.85 
crnzBV KAAE 
VIDEO $18.88 
LASER DOC $38.85 

mm mm mm 

VIDEO $18.95 
LASER DSC $34.95 
DOCTOR 2HVAGO 
VDEO SET $29.98 
LASER DSC SET $49.98 

BLACK ORPHEUS 
VDEO $28.85 
LASER DSC SET $49.95 

AAUDEUS 
VDEO $19.98 
LASER DSC $44.95 



Kfiir 






SERVE A DELICIOUS 

BONELESS HAM FOR EASTER DINNER 

Each of these 4-lb. hams is cut from the most 
tender portion of carefully selected hams, smoked 
to perfection, fully cooked and ready to grace your 
holiday table. Simply slice and serve. 

rare, go re 

SMOKED HAM $34.99 
MAPLE-FLAVORED HAM $37.89 
HONEY CURED HAM $37.99 




BRIGHTEN UP WINTER 
WITH FLORIDA SUNSHINE. 

Why is the Valencia Florida's sweetest, juiciest, 
healthiest orange? In a word, sunshine! The 
Valencia soaks up Florida's plentiful sunshine all 
year before it's ripe and ready for picking. Florida 
Fruit Shippers selects the juiciest, most delicious 
fruit to include in its premium gift fruit packages. 
Choose an all orange package or a mix of oranges 
with naturally sweet Ruby Red grapefruit. 

FLORIDA FRUIT SHIPPERS. GO FFS 
ORANGES ONLY OR 
ORANGE/GRAPEFRUIT MIX, 
'/? BUSHEL $27.95 
INCLUDES SHIPPING 



GIVE AN EASTER BUNNY 
FOR ALL AGES. 

What a silly rabbit! Young and 
old alike will love this large 
white rabbit with its stand-up 
ears and chubby cheeks. This 
sitting bunny rabbit has a pink 
nose, big black eyes and measures 
15" from its cute bunny tail to the 
top of its fluffy head. Includes a 
large gift box, gift wrap and bow. 

BRETON HARBOR BASKETS & 
GIFTS. GO BH 

BUNNY RABBIT $33 





GET CREATIVE WITH TWIRL-O-PAINT. 

A great way to while away a rainy afternoon or 
entertain the kids at birthday parties. As the paper 
spins on the tray, squeeze on paint colors and 
watch the magical designs appear. The tight, clear 
plastic cover keeps the paint safely contained so 
there are no splatters. Comes with three tubes of 
easily replaceable tempera paint. Runs on two D 
batteries (not included). Ages 4 and older. 

MUSEUM OF FIVE ARTS, BOSTON. 60 FA 

TWIRL-O-P/UNT $28 

MUSEUM MEMBER'S PRICE $25.29 




GIVE A SUGAR-FREE EASTER BASKET 
FOR RESTRICTED DIETS. 

Here is a great Easier gift for those on restricted 
diets — an all sugar-free Easter basket! The color- 
ful basket is brimming with sweet treats, including 
chocolate bunnies, gummy bears, assorted lollipops, 
cream-filled eggs and, of course, jelly beans! 



FANCY FOODS AND SPECIALTY GIFTS, 
SMALL BASKET $28.95 
LARGE BASKET $69.95 



GO FANCY 




J 
■A 




SEND A TRADITIONAL EASTER LILY. 

Always a favorite, this flowering Easter plant has 
white trumpet-like blooms and stands 12" tall. 

WALTER KNOLL FLORIST. GOWK 
EASTER LILY $25 



CONNECT-FREE SHOPPING 24 HO IRS A DAY, 3 6 5 DAYS A YEAR 



THE ELECTRONIC MALL 





TAKE IT ALL WITH YOU WITH 
THE SCANDIA BAG. 



MAKE A SMART 
INVESTMENT IN 
MONEYPLANS® 

and Nimncoums , 



Savings, retirement, college tuition, home buying, 
emergencies — MoneyPlans software covers them 
all. Like a good financial advisor, MoneyPlans 
begins with an online "interview" to help you 
clarify your goals for savings and investments, 
major purchases and insurance. An on-screen finan- 
cial calculator makes entering information simple, 
and allows for quick and easy "what if" analysis. 
MoneyCounts puts you in control of day-to-day 
finances including cash, checking, savings, credit 
cards and taxes. This practical program gives con- 
cise printed reports and automatic check-writing 
capabilities. It's a complete, easy-to-manage system 
to record your daily financial activities. 
Special Bonus! Order MoneyCounts 6.5 today and 
automatically get a free upgrade to the all-new 
MoneyCounts 7.0 as soon as it's available. 

PARSONS 1ECHWL0GY. GO PA 

MONEYPLANS LIST PRICE $49 
SALEPRBE S29 

MONEYCOUNTS LIST PRICE $35 
SALE PMCE 829 



Designed to hold all the books, papers and clothes 
you could ever need to carry on a short jaunt or 
hectic day. The sturdy canvas Scandia measures 
14.5" across, 1 1" deep and 4" wide. Water-resistant, 
color-fast and scuff-proof, it features six pockets, 
heavy-duty zippers 
and secure snaps. 
Available in black, 
blue and khaki. 
Bags of comparable 
quality cost at 
least $50. 

BARNES ft NOBLE 
GO BN 

SCANDIA BAG ONLY 
818.95 





CUT YOUR 
TAX BITE AND 
SAVE S30 
WITH 

1WB0TAX 8.0 
FROM CHIPSOFT. 

TurboTax gives you 
the expert help you 
need to complete your return correctly and claim 
the deductions to which you are entitled. It prints 
out your returns on more than 80 IRS-approved 
forms, schedules and work sheets. You gather your 
tax records and enter the data. TurboTax does the 
rest. State income tax programs are included, too. 



MKROWAREHOUSE. GO MCW 

TURBOTAX LIST PRICE $79 
TURBOTAX SALE PRICE 848 



SAVE $50 ON THE 
DP PULSE STRIDER TREADMILL. 

Get ready for summer with the DP Pulse Strider 
Treadmill. Equipped with a G.E. 0.75 hp AC motor, 
this sturdy machine features a large, easy-to-use 
handle for smooth speed control from 1.5 to 5 mph. 
The Bionix Fitness Computer can be programmed 
for age, sex and pulse range for complete fitness 
monitoring. Easy to assemble. Model #21-2600. 
Ordering is for Shoppers Advantage Club members 
only. Not a member? Join online today. 



SHOPPERS ADVANTAGE CLUB. GO SAC 

PULSE STRIDER LIST PRICE $399 
SAC MEMBERS' PRICE 8249 





UPGRADE YOUR SYSTEM WITH 
THE PACKARD BELL® COMPUTER 
AND MONITOR 

Packard Bell's Axcel III IBM-compatible desktop 
computer is preloaded for immediate access to 
MS-DOS 5.0®, LotusWorks* with word processing, 
spreadsheets with templates, databases, telecommu- 
nications and graphics. A disk tutorial guides you 
through the operation of the various programs. The 
system features a 40MB hard drive, 1MB RAM 
(expandable to 3MB), three expansion slots and 
VGA 800 x 600 video resolution. It also includes 
an enhanced 101-key keyboard and a real-time 
clock/calendar with battery backup. The Packard 
Bell® color monitor has a 14* VGA screen and a 
tilt/swivel base to adjust for easy viewing. It's 
equipped with 0.51 dot pitch and 640 x 480 line 
resolution for clear graphics. 

JCPENNEY. GOJCP 
COMPUTER ONLY 8899.99 
MONITOR ONLY 8289.99 



o 

CC 



New Merchant 








































































































Cost of Catalog Credited 
Toward Purchase 
































• 




























• 












































Electronic Order 






* 


























• 














• 




• 






• 




• 












• 










* 


* 




• 








• 


• 






Free Print Catalog 






• 




































* 


* 






• 






















































Other International 














* 


• 




• 






* 


# 




• 


* 


• 
















* 




• 








* 


• 










• 














* 














Japan 














* 


* 




• 






• 


• 




• 


• 


• 
















• 


• 


• 








* 












• 






















* i 






Europe 














* 


* 




• 






* 


• 




• 


* 


• 
















• 


* 










• 


• 




* 






• 






















• < 






Canada 






* 


• 






* 


# 




• 






* 


• 




• 


• 


• 
















• 


• 


• 


• 






• 


* 




4 


* 




• 




• 




• 






• 






• 


* < 






No Billing Applies 










































* 


• 


















































« 










Direct Bill 














































• 












# 














































Cash, Check, Money Order 












• 




* 










# 






• 






























* 














• 






















• 






COD 
































































• 




• 




• 


* 


* 




























Merchant's Store Card 








































• 
































































Discover Card 








• 










































• 














• 




* 
















• 




• 


• 


• 






0 1 






Diners Club 


























• 


































* 




• 








• 




















» 


















































































































American Express 








* 




* 




* 






* 




• 






• 








• 








• 


* 


■ 


• 






• 




• 














■ 


• 




m 


* 


• 


• 


• 












MasterCard 






• 


• 
































































































VISA 






• 


• 
































































































Travel Vacations 






• 


i 


• 


• 




























































































Sports 1 Leisure 
















• 
























• 
































































Office Supplies 








































































• 












9 




















Merchandise / Electronics 












































































• 


• 


























Information Services 


* 








* 




• 
















* 




• 






























• 






































» 


Hobbies / Toys / Pets 




































* 




























• 










* 




• 




















» 






Health / Beauty 




































• 


























• 
























• 


















Gifts / Flowers 
Gourmet Foods 












• 




* 










* 


• 








• 




• 










• 


• 






• 






• 


• 










• 


• 










• 


« 


• 






< 






Computing 






















































• 


















































Clubs .' Memberships 








































































































Business / Finance 


• 












# 


































• 










• 


« 




















• 


* 




















* 


Books / Periodicals 


























• 










• 


















• 












* 




• 




























• 


* 




Auto 










• 










» 


• 


• 


















* 




















































• 


• 








Arts / Music / Video 


























• 


• 




• 














• 




























• 




• 


























Apparel / Accessories 
















* 


* 














































• 














* 




























CD 

■o 

o 
O 

o 
CD 


< 


t 


< 


< 


i 

< 




< 




CL 




< 


[ATV 


CC 


o 
tr 


X 
CO 


so 


UJ 

CJ 
CO 


X 
CO 


CQ 

CO 


CC 


BUICK | 


3 


Q 


E5 


o 


COF | 


| ORDER | 


LU 

o 


CO 

o 


« 
o 


O 


>: 
DC 


G 


< 


CD 

5 


S: 
5 


1 DMS 


55 
a 


CO 
Q 


E 


CC 
O 


X 

LLJ 


FANCY | 


EE 


CO 
Li— 
LL_ 




FORD 1 


L- 

u. 


CD i. 


5 CD 




QUICK REFERENCE 
CHART 

Use this handy table when 
placing your order. 


c= 
n 

Qi 
2 


H Advantage Communications 


-s 

5 
§ 

-\: 

as 
?> 
u,. 

I 

1— 
•a 

% 


— 
E 

•-y 


1 

CO 

f 

:_ 

i£5 
a; 

o 

5 


II Alamo Rent-A-Car 


H American Express 


I American Management Assoc. 


- 
O 

a 

m 
C 

p 
£■ 

r 

a 


| Apparel Concepts For Men 


I Automobile Information Center 


1 AutoQuot-R 


1 AutoVantage Online 


| Barnes & Noble 


o 
tj 

o> 
rx 

CO 


1 Boat Xpress 


o 

■5 

o 


| Boston Computer Exchange 


I 

CD 
°s 
a; 

u: 
TO 
CO 

5 

!-J 

aj 

23 


|| Broderbund Software 


|| Brooks Brothers 


|| Buick Magazine 


o 
55 

Ci 

o 

£ 


1 The CD Club 


1 Gheckfree Corporation 


| The Chef's Catalog 


-- 
«J 
CI 

■ 

c 

n- 

i- 

c 


|| CompuServe Store 


|| Computer Express 


|| Computer Shopper 


£ 
55 

a] 

5 

a 
o 

<P 
CT 

H- 


II Contact Lens Supply 


1 

£ 
f 

u 


| Create-A-Book 


| Daico Computer Electronics 


| Data Based Advisor 


1 Direct Micro 


| Discount Music Supply 


1 Discount Shopping, Inc. 


1 Disney 


6 

o 

*J 

<s-. 

% 

a 
—■' 

% 


| Dreyfus Corp. 


s 

'£ 

,-*J 

5= 

a: 
K 

O 


| Fancy Foods & Specialty Gift Store; 


1 Figi's Gifts 


| Florida Fruit Shippers 


u 


1 Ford Electronic Showroom 


1 Ford Motor Company 


| Garrett Wade Woodworking 


|| Golden Press 


c 
c 

£ 
c 

a 
■c 

0 



CONNECT-FREE SHOPPING 24 HOURS A DAY, 365 DAYS A YEAR 



THE ELECTRONIC MALL 



7 

















































• 
































4 








• 










* 






4 




























• 
















































































4 










































• 




• 










• 






• 






* 


# 




* 


* 




• 








• 




• 




















4 




* 


4 




4 




4 




























4 


4 












* 










c 




# 






« 






* 


« 




i 


* 










• 


* 




* 


* 


















4 




« 


• 




4 






















4 


« 




4 




9 


4 












1 




























§ 




4 






e 


$ 




































• 




























4 














































































































% 






% 










4 




* 


















* 






































































* 




# 


























at 




# 




« 












































































# 


# 






• 


* 


* 




• 
















































* 


























































































































































































« 


# 




4 




























































4 
































• 


































4 




« 












4 






4 




4 


























4 


























& 






























































































* 


















• 




• 
















































































• 
















































* 


• 








• 






























• 






• 














• 


4' 
















4 


4 






■ 


4 










4 


















4 






















































* 








































































4 




* 




* 


• 










* 














* 


* 


• 












• 




* 












a 




* 


4 


■ 




4 






* 






■ 


4 






• 




4 






* 






* 










* 


4 


4 






















• 






4 




* 


• 


* 


« 


■ 






4 


• 




• 


* 




4 


* 


4 


* 




■ 


4 


■ 


4 


4 


• 


4 




i 




4 


• 


4 


4 


4 




# 




» 




4 


• 


4 


4 


4 






* 


4 


» 


• 


• 


* 


* 


* 




* 




* 




ft 








• 




* 


4 


* 


* 






« 


* 




■ 






0 




• 


• 


« 




* 


* 


4 


4 


* 


* 




4 




4 


4 


4 


B 


4 




4 




4 


* 


1 




4 


4 


« 






• 


» 


4 




































































































































* 






































































* 










4 






4 
































































































































































































































































































































































* 




















































4 
















* 




























































4 


















4 
























• 




















































































































































* 




• 


























• 








































































4 






• 


4 








4 


• 


* 


• 


• 








• 


• 


* 




• 






• 


• 




• 






































* 








* 




4 


4 


4 




4 




4 


4 


4 


4 


4 










4 




4 




4 
































































































4 






4 
















































• 












« 
























* 




























4 


• 


4 
























4 






* 






















* 








* 






* 


• 




















• 








• 


■ 


• 




• 








4 


4 






















e 


• 






















A 




# 












• 














* 












































4 
















4 


































4 














* 


• 




























m 


f 














































• 




















* 


























• 






























• 


















• 
















• 












4 




4 








• 














4 




















HTH 


X 


CJ 
■ r 




LU 

„J 


s 


s 




MM 


TKR 1 


s 


z 

5 


_i 




1 


s 

2- 


M 




a 
3 




NEBS I 


Z 

z 


< 

o 


to 
O 


O 

a 




PFS 1 


PCA 


o 
a. 


D_ 


ir' 


PW . 




a. 


PRC 


CO 
Q_ 




PPP 


s 

CC 


LU 
CC 


ROD 1 




SEARS j 


0 

to 




SAC 


to 

CO 


CO 


m 


CL 

00 


SDI j 


LU 


0 


CO 


t 


LU 

er 

CJ 


TSR J 


Z 

r> 


CL 


CO 


WB 


WK | 


> 


The Heath Company 


! Home Tech Depot 


£ 

'— 


o 

= 

u> 

LC 

ifl 
it: 


[ The Laser's Edge 


Lincoln Electronic Showroom 


, 

X- 


MacWarehouse 


S 

Z3 

-c 

1— 

- 

'TO 


Max Ule Discount Brokerage 


1 McGraw-Hii! Book Company 


Mentor Technologies 


j Mercury Electronic Showroom 


T. 

o 

3 

c 
5 


| Mission Control Software 


I Money's Financial Market 


Multiple Zones 


\ Museum of Fine Arts, Boston 


i Music Alley Online 


i Narada Productions 


3 

2T 


'<u 
z 

2 


■a; 

s 

a: 

■c 

< 
x= 

Q 


Omaha Steaks 


1 PC Publications 


! Parsons Technology 


Paul Fredrick Shirts Company 


PC Catalog 


c 

a 
E 

1 


| PC Magazine 


1 PC Sources 


Penny*Wise Office Products 


| Peterson's Connexion 


1 PetWorks 


[ Peine Motorcars 


The Programmer's Shop 


1 Publishers Clearing House 


1 Push Pedal Pull Fitness 


f 

a; 

C.: 


I Robertson Electronics, Inc. 


03 

s 
ta 
0 
OC 

I 


Safeware Computer Insurance 


j Sears 


[ Shareware Depot 


1 Sharon Luggage and Gifts 


Shoppers Advantage Ciub 


Short Sues Inc 


I Sierra Online 


1 Small Computer Book Club 


1 Softdisk Publishing 


1 Software Discounters Intl. 


[ Software Excitement 


| Sounds & Video Online 


| Sunglasses, Shavers & More 


| t,i raits 


i TRW Credentials 


a 

LO 

ft- 

e 

Li 

r- 


| UNICEF 


I University of Phoenix 


| VitalStats 


| Waiden Computer Books 


| Waiter Knoll Florist 


| Yes' Books and Video 



MARCH 1942 



SAVE ON LONG DISTANCE PHONE CALLS. 

Advantage Communications Group is a reseller of 
discount long distance network services provided 
by AT&T, MCI and SPRINT networks. Until 
recently, deeply discounted phone rates were only 
available to major companies with massive calling 
volumes. Advantage Communications Group's 
purpose is to provide its members with the same 
competitive advantages as the Fortune 500 compa- 
nies. Its AT&T, MCI and SPRINT rates often save 
customers from 15% to 35% and more, depending 
on calling patterns, current long distance carrier and 
carrier rate plan. 
Complete details online. 

ADVANTAGE COMMUNICATIONS. GO AD 




Here is a potential life-saver for elderly parents 
living in distant cities, anyone with a chronic 
disease, or families with children who are often 
home alone. The H.E.L.P. Monitoring System is a 
computerized self-dialing unit that connects to your 
telephone. You provide necessary information, such 
as the names and phone numbers of the local am- 
bulance service, friends, neighbors or relatives that 
need to be alerted, and any pertinent medical data, 
such as allergies and blood type. Should an 
accident or illness occur, you or the monitored 
party need only push a button. The call goes 
directly to H.E.L.P.'s monitoring station, which is 
staffed with trained emergency personnel 24 hours 
a day. H.E.L.P. makes all the calls for you. 
Request a free brochure online. 

COURT PHARMACY. GO RX 
H.E.L.P. MONITORING SYSTEM $485 




DRESS IN STYLE 
YEAR-ROUND WITH LEVI'S 
501 JEANS. 

This original button-fly red-tab 
jean is constructed of 100% 
cotton, preshrunk, heavyweight 
denim and features Levi's fa- 
mous five pockets. Available in 
prewashed indigo, black, new 
age bleach and stonewashed. 

AMERICANA CL0THNG. GO AC 
INDIGO AND BUCK $31 
NEW AGE BLEACH AND 
STONEWASHED $86 





DISCOVER THE LINCOLN TOWN CAR, 
WHAT A LUXURY CAR SHOULD BE. 

Today, Lincoln stands at the pinnacle of the auto- 
motive world and is the standard used to measure 
what a luxury car should be. But what's behind the 
Lincoln mark? What's the philosophy that has 
driven the engineers and designers to produce the 
most consistently sophisticated luxury cars the 
world has ever seen? Find out in Lincoln's Feature 
Vehicle showroom. Request a free brochure, too. 

FORD MOTOR CO. 60 LNCOLN 



CONNECT-FREE SHOPPING 24 HOURS A DAY, 365 DAYS A YEAR 



THE ELECTRONIC MALL 




AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 
OFFERS SEMINARS, ROOKS, VIDEOS. 

Founded in 1923, American Management 
Association (AMA) is the world"s largest manage- 
ment education organization. Online you will find 
information on the wide array of products and 
services AMA offers: seminars, books and publica- 
tions, training videos, self-study video programs, 
on-site training programs, and more. CompuServe 
members are also invited to discover the many 
privileges of AMA membership, such as discounts 
on products and services and access to AMA infor- 
mation resources. 

Recognized and used by more U.S. businesses than 
any other training provider, AMA offers over 9,000 
seminars a year. Browse their online listings of 
leading seminars covering everything from manage- 
ment skills and organizational development to 
information systems and new product development 
and technology transfer. Online you will find 
course descriptions, locations and costs. You can 
also request a free catalog of seminars. 
Other free catalogs available online include AMA's 
Video Catalog, AMA's 
Self-Study Catalog and 
Amacom's Trade and 
Professional Books fMERCHANT] 
Catalog. Everything in 
AMA's print catalogs can 
be ordered electronically. 
Or browse AMA's online 
catalog, showcasing the best in books, videos and 
study guides. 

AMERICAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION, go AMA 




CUT YOUR TAXES WITH 

mcnm personal l mo mi 

AND fF:X BU8WES8 EXPENSE REPORTS. 

Let MacInTax guide you through the process of 
preparing your federal taxes. Type in the requested 
numbers and MacInTax does the rest. The program 
helps you find the deductions that legally apply to 
you and points out situations that might trigger an 
IRS audit. When finished, it prints your completed 
return. if:X Business Expense Reports supplies you 
with pop-up itemization windows for listing indi- 
vidual business expenses. Each itemization window 
acts as an audit trail and can be printed for refer- 
ence. Seven different versions of expense forms are 
provided, including one for foreign travel with 
automatic currency conversion. 

MACWAREHOUSE. GO MW 

marmot msamium mi $65 

IF.X BUSKSS EXPENSE REPORTS $35 
FOR BOTH $79 



STORE UP TO 1,000 NAMES WITH 
ELECTRODEX REL24 FROM ROLODEX. 

The rotary dial flips through the entries, then 
auto-dials from any file. The 24K memory holds up 
to 1,000 name and number entries. Call up a file 
instantly by person or company name. Your per- 
sonal security code assures privacy. Battery backup 
protects against data loss. Includes calendar display 
function with reminder notes and calculator. 

SEARS. GO SEARS 
ELECTRODEX $88.89 




AT&T 800 DIRECTORY PUTS FINANCIAL 
HELP AT YOUR FINGERTIPS. 

Are you looking for a financial planner, a credit 
union or an accountant? Do you need a loan or 
mortgage? Are you thinking about investing in 
gold, silver and precious metals? Whether you're 
seeking a trademark attorney or a tax preparation 
service, a pet insurance company or a foreign ex- 
change broker, the AT&T 800 Toll-Free Directory 
has your number. Online you will find thousands 
of toll-free listings for financial services coast to 
coast. Search by company name or by category. 
There are more than 40 different financial catego- 
ries from which to choose. 

AT&T. GO ATT 




FEBRUARY 1992 



GET 3 MONTHS OF AUTO MAINTENANCE ft 
BUYING SERVICES FOR ONLY $11 

Access Auto Vantage* OnLine and start down the 
road to car-care savings. You save on everything 
from the sticker price of your next new car to 
tune-ups, transmissions and body repair. As a 
member, you enjoy valuable savings at thousands 
of participating Goodyear®, Firestone®, AAMCO®, 
Meineke®, Maaco® and other nationwide service 
centers. Price out the value of your used car online! 
Plus, you have access to Auto Vantage's OnLine 
Service Center Locator for new car dealerships and 
Used Car Evaluation Reports. 
Try Auto Vantage for three months for only $1! 
To ensure uninterrupted service, your membership 
will automatically be renewed after the initial intro- 
ductory period for a term of 12-months and 
annually thereafter at the current annual 
membership fee (now $49). If you are 
ever less than completely satisfied with 
Auto Vantage OnLine, you may discontinue 
your membership and get a full refund on 
your current annual membership fee. 

AUTOVMVTKGE ONUNE. GO ATV 





SAVE ON HYUNDAI AND CANON PRODUCTS 
AT ROBERTSON ELECTRONICS. 

Consumer satisfaction is the number one concern at 
Robertson Electronics. Robertson's expert staff can 
help you make the right buying decision and save 
you money in the process! Featured online at 
Robertson's are Hyundai computers and peripherals, 
fax machines, appliances, telecommunications and 
audio products by Canon, Panasonic and Icom 
Avionics, all at very low competitive prices. Among 
the cutting edge products you will find are a 
Panasonic KX-T4000 Pocket Cordless Telephone 
($229.95), a Panasonic Portable Compact Disc 

Player ($159.95), and a Canon Bubble 
Jet Printer BJ-lOex ($349). 
a As a grand opening 
special, Robertson's is 
offering a free T-shirt 
with the purchase of any 
Hyundai computer 
through March 31, 1992. 

ROBERTSON BfCTROMCS. GO RE 




CONNECT-FREE SHOPPING 24 HOURS A DAY, 365 DAYS A YEAR 



THE ELECTRONIC MALL 




I 



RNANCtAL SOFTWARE GUIDES 
AT WALDENCOMPUTERBOOKS. 



Visit WaldenCOMPUTERbooks for all the books 
you need to get the most out of the latest financial 
software programs, including accounting, financial 
management and checkbook software. More than 
10 titles are featured. 

WALDEWOMPUTBffiOOKS. GO WB 
10 MM/IE BUDF 70 QUKKBIf 6 88.95 
CHECKfflff QUICK REFERENCE $19.85 
TMESUPS ■ MADE EASY 818.85 

usmg nam zooo 818.85 

ume QucxBV: macwtosh version 818.95 




PAY BILLS PAINLESSLY WITH CHECKFREE. 

Save time, money and aggravation with CheckFree, 
the most convenient, electronic way to pay bills 
and handle your finances. CheckFree, the nation's 
leading electronic bill payment system, pays all 
your bills through any bank, automates your record 
keeping and organizes your finances with no 



checks, no stamps and no paperwork. Available in 
DOS 3.0 and Macintosh versions. Each package 
includes software, subscription kit and one month 
of service. 

CHECKFREE. GO CF 
CHECKFREE SOFTWARE 828.85 



THE FIRST STEP IN BUYING A NEW HOME 
... IS BUYMG YOUR HOME FROM HOME 
EQUITY SOFTWARE. 

Should you or shouldn't you buy a new home? 
Buying Your Home helps you answer the five most 
important questions: Should I buy a home now or 
continue to rent? Which type of mortgage is best 
for me? How much cash do I need for closing costs 
and to move in? Which home should I buy? Do I 
have enough income to qualify for a mortgage loan 
and meet possible future payment increases? Much 
more than a mortgage calculator or amortizer, this 
is a comprehensive financial planner for purchasing 
or renting a home that allows you to plan your 
household budget and estimate your federal income 
taxes for as many as 10 years! 

COMPUTER EXPRESS. GO CE 
BUYHG VOUR NOME SOFTWARE 

REGULAR PRICE $69.95 
SALE PRICE 845.47 



FEBRUARY 1992 





BRIGHTEN UP YOUR WORKPLACE 
WITH THIS SLEEK TASK LIGHT. 

Swingline's Task Light with Cylindrical Shade adds 
a contemporary touch to your office. Make the 
most of limited desk space with this unique clamp- 
on task light. Base will attach to any desk or table 
top up to 2-W wide. Order stock no. SWT 77006. 



PENNY "WISE OFFICE PRODUCTS. 

LIST PRICE $89.95 
SALE PRICE 869.95 



GOPW 



DIRECT MICRO DISCOUNTS DISKS. 

Purchase any promotional item, such as a designer 
mouse mat, disk coasters or wrist pad at Direct 
Micro, and during March, you qualify to purchase 
up to 20 disks at rock-bottom prices. Complete 
details online. 

DIRECT MICRO. GO DM 
SALE PRICES FOR DISKS: 
5.25" DS/DD 15C EACH 
5.25" DS/KD 37C EACH 
3.5" DS/DD 34C EACH 
3.G" DS/HD 69C EACH 



MCGRAW-HILL SPOTUGHTS 
MACINTOSH TITLES. 

Attention Mac owners! McGraw-Hill Books has 
added a section to their store just for you! Featured 
online is a selection of the best new and backlist 
titles for Mac owners only. 



m 

i 


ST"- 

ft 


BIBB 























THE ELECTRONIC 
MALL SAYS 
"BE EARTHWISE." 



INCORPORATE YOUR BUSINESS 
ONLINE IN 48 HOURS. 

Corporate Agents, Inc. is a specialty service 
company which forms corporations in all 50 states 
and offers the first online guide to incorporating a 
business. For only $99 plus state fees. Corporate 
Agents will: 

• Check and reserve your preferred corporate name. 

• Prepare and file your Articles of Incorporation. 

• Provide lst-year registered agent services for 
your new corporation. 

• Furnish you with a deluxe corporate kit which 
includes corporate seal, stock certificates, 
minute book and sample forms for your minutes 
and by-laws. 

Get complete details online. When you're ready to 
incorporate, complete the online order form and 
your corporation will be formed within 48 hours! 

A GUIDE TO INCORPORATING. GO INC 



Earth Day is April 20. 
During March and April 
The Electronic Mall is 
spotlighting ecologically 
sound products and services online. Visit our 
Earth Wise Center for news on a wide array of 
items designed to make our planet a better place to 
live. Among the Earth Wise products featured are: 
The Green Entrepreneur: Business Opportunities 
That Can Save the Earth, Make You Money from 
McGraw-Hill; a recycling center from The Chef's 
Catalog; recycled office products from Penny*Wise 
Office Products; video series such as 77ie Miracle 
Planet: The Life Story of Earth 
and The Trials of Life from 
Yes! Books and 
Videos; and 
Narada's The 
Wilderness 
Collection (CD or 
cassette). Narada will 
' donate a portion of the 
proceeds to the National 
Audobon Society, Sierra 
■ Club and The Wilderness 
Society. Join The Mall's 
salute to the earth. 

GO MALL 




MCGRAW HILL ROOKS. GO MH 
EXCEL 3 FOR THE MACINTOSH 
MADE EASY 81 9.85 
J-2-8 FOR THE MACINTOSH 
MADE EASY 819.95 
PAGEMAKER 4 FOR THE MACINTOSH 
MADE EASY 819.95 
MICROSOFT WORD 5 FOR THE MACINTOSH 
MADE EASY 819.95 






CONNECT-FREE SHOPPING 24 HOURS A DAY, 3 6 5 DAYS A YEAR 




I'll Show You How 
To Increase Your Income 
and Manage Your Money 
Like a Financial Whiz! 



I PERSONALLY GUARANTEE COMPLETE SUCCESS 
WITH MY FREE UNLIMITED TELEPHONE SUPPORT 
AND NINETY DAY REFUND OFFER. 



"Americas No. 1 
Check Writing and 
Accounting Software 
For Non Accountants." 
FREE 90 DAY TRIAL OFFER! 




Van B. Hooper . 

President of Hooper International 

and Author of Hooper Software 



Nc 



IOW, SAVE THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS 
A YEAR IN ACCOUNTING FEES AND 
AVOID I.R.S. AUDITS WITH THIS USER 
FRIENDLY CHECK WRITING AND 
ACCOUNTING SOFTWARE. 

Most Executives, Professionals and Business Owners 
simply don't have the time to learn the necessary 
accounting principals for effective management of 
their affairs. On top of it all, the I.R.S. makes endless 
demands for more comprehensive records. 

With Hooper Accounting Packages, you are 
immediately more productive. All you have to do is 
follow the easy-to-understand instructions. You control 
your finances instead of allowing your finances to 
control you. This enables you to spend more time at 
what you do best — Making Money! 

Hooper packages are inexpensive and are written in 
plain, simple, language. A friendly and helpful 
support staff is always available to courteously answer 
any and all of your questions, free of charge. Hooper 
takes the mystery and awe out of using 
accounting software! 

Take advantage of the 90 day free trial offer today. You 
have all to gain and nothing to lose. Act now! 

Hooper Software Does Much More Than Quicken, 
Is More Powerful Than Pacioli and is ff 
Immensely More Easy To Use Than Dac Easy. 

90 DAY FREE TRIAL 

YOUR GUARANTEE OF SATISFACTION! 
Your absolute satisfaction is our number one priority. 
That's why we invite you to try Hooper Software for a 
full 90 days without risk or obligation. If you are not 
completely satisfied, you can return the software for a 
full and cheerful refund. No questions asked. 



WE SHIP 

ALL ORDERS BY 



Copyright 1992 by Excel American and Hooper International, Inc. 
Cheque-It-Out. Takin' Care Of Business! and Payroll-Master are trademarks of 
Hooper International, Inc. 

IBM, Quicken, Pacioli and Dac Easy are trademarks of their respective owners. 
All Hooper software operates with IBM PC-DOS or compatible computers. 
Specify 5-1/4" or 3-1/2" floppy disk. 




CHEQUE-IT-OUT ™ 

The user friendly personal 
accounting software that helps you 
manage your affairs with complete 
accuracy. Ideal for executives, 
professionals and small business. 



Sample Listing of Hundreds of Cheque-It-Out Features: 




Works under Windows or DOS. 
Handles and feels like your 
checkbook. 

Know your account balances at all times. 
No accounting experience necessary. 
Full general ledger. 
Automated Double Entry System. 
Complete range of reports instantly 
available. 

Only $69.95 



Intuitive pop up windows. 
Mouse compatible. 
Over 3,000 screen color selections. 
Unlimited transactions. 
Context sensitive help screens. 

■ Tracks outstanding checks. 

■ Pop-up calculator. 

■ Operates in calendar or fiscal year mode. 

■ Unlimited free telephone support. 

Plus $5 Shipping & Handling 




TAKIN' CARE 
OF BUSINESS! ™ 

The simple-to-use software that will 
help you succeed in business. It 
will enable you to operate more 
efficiently and effectively, improving 
your bottom line. 

Includes All Features of Cheque-It-Out Above, Plus: 

■ Leadinp Edge Accounts Receivable ■ No accounting experience necessary. 
Operating & Reporting Package. ■ Unlimited free telephone support. 

■ Advanced Accounts Payable Operating And much more. 
& Reporting Package. 

Only $149.95 Plus $6 Shipping & Handling 

PAYROLL-MASTER ™ 

Provides everything you need to 
professionally manage your 
payroll function. 
Sample Listing of Dozens of Payroll-Master Features: 

■ Designed to be fully compatible with ■ Manages employee vacations, sick 
all other Hooper software. time, overtime and holidays. 

■ Automatic Tax Collections. ■ Supports up to 1 ,000 employees. 

■ Prints W-2's and 1 099's. ■ Unlimited free telephone support. 

■ No accounting experience necessary. 

Only $69.95 Plus $5 Shipping & Handling 

ORDER TOLL-FREE 
1-800-525-9200 



VISA 












'55 







or send check or money order to: 
HOOPER INTERNATIONAL, INC. 

"The Accounting People" 

P.O. Box 49711, Dept. 10 
Colorado Springs, CO 80949, USA 



by John Edwards 



Meet Mr. Shareware 




CompuServe turned weekend project into popular product: Button 



k An early one-man software firm 
' sizes up 'trying it' then and now. 

Jim Button has heard all the jokes, in- 
cluding the quips about "pressing the right 
buttons" and, of course, being "on the but- 
ton." He's heard them a thousand, maybe a 
million, times. But the PC software pioneer 
did indeed do something right in 1982 when 
he slipped a little electronic notice into PC 
File — the flat-file database manager he was 
graciously giving away for nothing — inviting 
people to mail in a voluntary payment if they 
liked the program. 

"There were at least a couple of other 
people who hit on the shareware idea at 
around the same time. But I will take credit 
for being one of the first," says Button. 

While he may not have created share- 
ware — copyrighted programs made available 
to users on a trial basis — Button did manage 
to fully exploit the concept. In much the same 
way that IBM took the microcomputer and 
turned it into an acceptable business tool, 
Button grabbed the "try before you buy" idea 
and made it a popular— and profitable — way 
to sell software. At last count, PC File was 
managing the databases of more than 
700,000 users. 

Today, Button is CEO of ButtonWare, a 
25-employee software company based in 
Bellevue, Wash. In addition to PC-File+, 
the firm's product line includes PC-Calc+ 



(a spreadsheet), PC Type II (a 
word processor) and Baker's 
Dozen (a set of 14 utility 
disks). ButtonWare also re- 
cently introduced TakeNote, a personal filer 
that marks the company's first move into the 
Windows market. 

In the late 1980s, Button set in motion his 
plan to achieve every shareware author's 
dream — getting out of shareware. He decided 
to take ButtonWare into the retail market. 
"In the past year, we've moved almost totally 
out of the shareware department and into 
the standard distribution channels, mostly 
at the insistence of our larger distributors," 
says Button. 

But ButtonWare's transition into the re- 
tail market wasn't painless. Although the 
company was able to get its products sup- 
ported by more than 2,000 dealers, sales 
were poor. ButtonWare was in danger of 
becoming just another promising software 
company that had overextended its reach. 
"For shareware authors, advertising is 
pretty inexpensive," notes Button. "In retail, 
profits tend to be squeezed because you have 
to discount your product so hugely to the 
distributor." 

Realizing he needed someone with profes- 
sional marketing experience to guide 
ButtonWare during its transformation into a 
full-fledged software publishing company, 



COMPUTING 
SERVICES 



Button tapped Jim David, an 
Egghead Discount software 
sales and marketing manager, 
to become company president. 
David and Button revamped Button- 
Ware's product packaging, repriced the soft- 
ware to reflect the cost of doing business 
and worked to get major distributors, as 
well as big-name resellers such as PC 
Connection, Egghead, Waldensoftware and 
CompuAdd, to handle the products. Within a 
year, sales and profits had climbed impres- 
sively, and ButtonWare was solidly posi- 
tioned in the retail market. 

While ButtonWare has changed dramati- 
cally over the last few years, the company 
remains true to its shareware roots by offer- 
ing customers extensive one-on-one support. 
Button has backed his products through 
CompuServe since 1982. In fact, ButtonWare 
was the first company to support its products 
in the PC vendor forums. Today, the firm 
can be found in the PC Vendor A Forum 
(GO PCVENA) in Section and Library I, 
"ButtonWare." (See table on p. 29 for compa- 
nies represented in the PC vendor forums.) 

"I visit the forum every day to see what's 
happening, to see what the support issues 
and questions are," says Button. "As an au- 
thor, I need to keep my finger on the users' 
pulse. Sometimes, if our support person is 
away for awhile or misses an important 



26 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Shareware Central: ASP Forum 



Although Jim Button had virtually no outside support when he 
introduced his first software product, today's shareware authors 
can tap into the formidable resources offered by the Association 
of Shareware Professionals, represented in CompuServe's ASP/ 
Shareware Forum (GO ASPFORUM). 

The ASP was formed in 1987 by a group of shareware authors, 
including Button, who wanted to improve their industry's practices 
and image. Today, the ASP promotes shareware as a "try before you 
buy" method of distributing software. It also sets programming, 
marketing and support standards, and helps its members to market 
their software around the world. 

The ASP uses the forum as its online headquarters— a place 
where ASP members can communicate, share ideas and learn from 
one another. You don't have to be a member of the ASP to join the 
forum and participate in its discussions. 

Savvy aspiring shareware authors frequent the forum's Section 
4, "New Authors," where they get practical, nuts-and-bolts pro- 
gramming and marketing help from industry veterans such as 
Button. Section 2, "Ask the ASP," is a clearinghouse for information 
on the organization. 




The forum's libraries feature a wealth of technical and business 
material. Many of the files provide essential information for new 
shareware authors. Here are a few: 

Association Shareware Catalog— The ASP's official product 
catalog, which describes each product and gives its location on 
CompuServe. Library 2, "Ask the ASP," CATLOG.ZIP. 

Author Application Procedures — Information on how to be- 
come an ASP author-member. Library 2, APPROC.EXE. 

Membership Application Form (PC version) — Application 
and instructions for joining the ASP. Library 2, APPLIC.EXE. 

Membership Application Form (Macintosh version)— 
Application and instructions for joining the ASP. Library 2, 
APPLIC.SIT. 

Definition of Shareware and ASP~Detailed look at 
shareware and the ASP's role in the field. Library 3, "Shareware!," 
DEFINE.ZIP. 

Shareware Programmer's Guide — Tips on writing, docu- 
menting, legally protecting and marketing software through 
shareware. Library 4, "New Authors," GUIDE.EXE. 



question or misses the point, I chime in and 
provide the answer. I read everything that 
comes across the board." 

Button got into the shareware field the 
way most people do, as a computer hobbyist. 
While still employed as an IBM manager, he 
began to build kit computers with his then 
teen-age son, John, in the late 1970s. By the 
time the IBM PC appeared on the market in 
1981, the Buttons were experienced micro- 
computer programmers, ready to meet the 
needs of thousands of new PC owners. (John 
is now a product manager with Button Ware,) 

"I wrote PC File as a weekend project to 
help me keep track of old business contacts, 
handle mailing labels for my church and 
things like that," recalls Button. "I offered 
the product as freeware, but the program 
was so highly accepted that it quickly over- 
ran me as a hobby and I had to turn the 
whole thing into a business venture." 

Button says CompuServe was the perfect 
channel for publicizing PC File. While today 
CompuServe allows shareware authors to 
place programs directly into specific forum 
libraries, a decade ago Button had to resort 
to a more primitive distribution method. 

"I bought a CompuServe subscription and 
put a message up about my program and how 
people could get it for free by mailing me a 
disk with a return envelope and postage," he 
says. "That message on CompuServe was the 




TAPCIS is the FASTEST way to access CompuServe and... 
-& Automate and simplify your access to forums, libraries, and E-mail. 
•& Just one key to send and receive messages and files and log off. 
# All your reading, typing, and thinking offline, 
•wr B-plus protocol for error-free downloading and uploading. 

TAPCIS saves time and money by keeping the connect time 
to a minimum. We guarantee it — try TAPCIS 
for 90 days! IBM compatibles $79 and 
OS/2 PM $99. ^ 




800-872-4768 

GO TAPCIS ❖ 74020,10 
90-day full money-back guarantee. 








GO OU for more information. 

MARCH 1992 



27 




Having exhausted all his 
decision-making tools, Miles was 
finally on to something big. 

If you're searching for the definitive source of business 
information, you're in luck. IQuest offers the kinds of 
information that could help you make a fortune. 

Find details on virtually every aspect of business, 
including credit histories, financial information, 
management studies and marketing reports. In fact, 
everything you need to find out what's happening 
in the marketplace is available through IQuest. 

Getting the information is easy, too. But if you 
need help, just say the word (actually, just type SOS). 
Like magic, a trained IQuest researcher will appear 
and provide assistance. 

For a clearer vision of what the future holds for your 
business, GO IQUEST. 



Consult ABI/Inform® this month 
and get free abstracts. 

Get expert information on a range of business and 
management topics with ABI/Inform. And save up to 
$20 per search doing it. 

For March only, abstracts are included free with 
every ABI/Inform search heading display. 
(ABI/Inform abstracts are normally $2 each.) 

GO IQUEST for more information. 



IQuest 



GO OLI for more information. 
28 a COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



first 'ad' I ever ran. It enabled me to get into 
a lot of bulletin boards and gave me entry 
into some of the first computer clubs." It also 
helped Button to get the word out to maga- 
zine editors and other influential people in 
the computer community. The rest, as they 
say, is history. 

Button's experiences on CompuServe led 
him, with several other leading shareware 
authors, to found the Association of 
Shareware Professionals (ASP) in 1987 (see 
"Shareware Central," p. 27). Button still en- 
joys helping new shareware authors get a 
foothold in the field, although his company's 
recent shift into retail marketing has forced 
him to relinquish his seat on the association's 
board of directors. Nevertheless, in appreci- 
ation of his efforts on behalf of shareware 
over the past decade, the ASP presented him 
its 1991 Shareware Honor award. 

Button says the key to becoming a suc- 
cessful shareware author is hard work. "The 
most important thing is to create the best 
possible program before you put it into the 
shareware tent. You shouldn't get into 
shareware unless you're seriously interested 
in devoting the time that's required not only 
to write your program but also to support it, 
document it and market it. Once you're a 
shareware author, you're becoming a one- 
person software company." 

Despite the difficulties he experienced in 
taking Button Ware into the retail market, 
Button still thinks it's a goal all serious 
shareware authors should aspire to. But he 
stresses the importance of careful planning. 
"You have to build up a huge following," he 
notes. "Your product has to become so well- 
known as a shareware product that you can 
generate some pull on the retail shelves just 
by the recognition of your product name." 

Button still tinkers with new programs 
and ideas, and continues to see opportunities 
in shareware. "It's the perfect way for anyone 
to get into the software publishing business. 
Regardless of the platform, you can get 
started with a minimal investment. All it 
takes is some talent and the ability to hang 
in there. You also have to be willing to 
promote yourself— that's an important part 
of achieving success." 

And while it's true that Jim Button has 
heard the line about "buttoning your lip," he 
never took it seriously. Good for him. 

John Edwards is a contributing editor of CompuServe 
Magazine. His CompuServe User ID number u 70007,412. 



PC Vendors Galore: Forum Summaries 



ButtonWare was the first company to 
provide product support in a CompuServe 
PC vendor forum. Today, you can find 
ButtonWare in Section and Library 1 of the 
PC Vendor A Forum. 

Here's a quick look at the companies that 
support their products on CompuServe's five 
PC vendor forums. The section/library num- 
ber follows the product name. 

PC Vendor A Forum (GO PCVENA) 

Broadview Communications (15) 
Brdderbund (4) 
ButtonWare (1) 
Ctrlalt Associates (12) 
Custom Technologies (7) 
Enable Software (3) 
Foresight Corp. (13) 
Magee Enterprises (6) 
Mansfield Software (2) 
MultiSoft Corp. (14) 
Mustang Software (9) 
Northgate (10) 
Qualitas (8) 
Quercus Systems (11) 
Sitka (TOPS) (5) 

PC Vendor B Forum (GO PCVENB) 

Advanced Gravis (14) 
ChipSoft Inc. (7) 
DacEasy (8) 

Great American Software (13) 
J.P. Software (10) 
Korenthal Associates (3) 
PDC Prolog (11) 
Personics Corp. (4) 
Primavera Systems (2) 
PRO-C Corp. (9) 
Quarterdeck (1) 
Quicksoft (5) 

SPECTRA Publishing (12) 
TurboPower Software (6) 

PC Vendor C Forum (GO PCVENC) 

Brightbill-Roberts (1) 
Gateway 2000 (13) 
Hooper International (5) 
IBM CAD (4) 

Innovative Data Concepts (6) 
Macola Inc. (14) 
Megahertz (9) 
NetFRAME Systems (3) 
Parsons "Technology (8) 
PKWare Inc. (11) 
Rupp Corp. (10) 
Vericomp (2) 
Wordtech Systems (7) 

PC Vendor D Forum (GO PCVEND) 

Artisoft (2) 

Brightwork Development (3) 
Complementary Solutions Inc. (7) 
Coordination Technology (13) 
Cumulus Corp. (6) 
Dell Computer (1) 



GO Corp. (5) PC Vendor E Forum (GO PCVENE) 

Hyperkinetic (9) Farallon Computing (4) 

Magma Systems (10) Iomega Corp. (3) 

Procom Technology (12) Turbo Power C++ (1) 

Tech III (4) XTree Company (2) 

TIMESLIPS Corp. (8) 



Pa perC/iase 



... the easy way to 
search MEDLINE 



When you need 
medical information, 
just type: 



GO PCH. 



Access over 6,500,000 
references from 4,000 of 
the world's best medical 
journals — quickly and 
easily. 

Get information on a 
specific medical topic that 
interests you, read the 
author's summary online, 
and order photocopies 
of the full-text of the 
articles as you search! 

Call 800/722-2075 for your 
free information packet 
today! 



Pa perChase 

350 Longwood Avenue 
Boston, MA 021 15 

800/722-2075 
617/278-3900 (in MA) 



PaperC/iase is a service of 
Boston's Beth Israel Hospital 
a major teaching hospital of 
the Harvard Medical School 



GO OLI for more information. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 29 



by Mike Pietruk 




Mutual Decisions 

international stocks for surviving periods of 
inflation or a declining US dollar; (3) Bonds, 
which profit during times of declining inter- 
est rates and disinflation; and (4) Bank ac- 
counts, certificates and money market funds 
for stability when other investments aren't 
faring well. 

According to Windward, Browne tells his 
followers to find securities that represent 
each of the four groups and invest 25 percent 
of their portfolio in each group. The strategy 
is called the "permanent portfolio." The sys- 
tem requires minimal active management as 
it advocates few switches in and out of funds 
once the portfolio is established. This has the 
added advantage of allowing the investor to 
compound capital gains on a tax-deferred 
basis, postponing payments to the IRS. 

Windward tinkers a bit with the Browne 
formula, emphasizing some funds and light- 
ening others according to how he perceives 
economic development. 

"Granted, I don't achieve spectacular re- 
turns, but there's always a portion of my 
portfolio that does well," Windward says. "I 
don't hit too many home-run years, but I 
always end up with at least a decent batting 
average. That, after all, is the name of the 
game." Over the past four years, Windward 
boasts a 12 percent annual average return on 
his portfolio. 

It makes sense to spread investments 



MONEY 
MATTERS 



CM's Money Matters Credo: 

To the casual and serious investor 
alike, we vow to provide sanity 
when the bulls and bears run wild; 
indeed to explain and inform. Where 
money matters, we'll provide the 
means of attaining discretion and 
thus the better part of financial valor. 

T 

A Return 
Amidst Stagnation 



► In tougher times, these managed, 
diversified funds are a safe bet. 
But how do you single one out? 

Los Angeles private school educator and 
Investors' Forum member Rolfe Windward 
believes diversification is the best way to go 
when investing in mutual funds. "I 
don't know which investment styles 
will be hot at any given time. By having 
my eggs in various baskets, I stand to 
profit whatever the economic climate," 
he says. 

In today's sluggish US economy, 
where low interest rates prevail, build- 
ing a good mutual fund portfolio may 
be the only means an average investor 
has to earn a decent, long-term return. 
But how do you approach the more 
than 3,000 professionally managed and 
multi-issued diversified fund portfolios 
and select the most appropriate ones? 

Windward, whose holdings include 
20th Century Balanced, Benham Eq- 
uity Gold Index, Price International 
Discovery and the Benham Target 
Maturities Trust Zero Coupon Bond funds, 
follows a global assets model created by 
newsletter writer Harry Browne. This model 
identifies four classes of investments corre- 
sponding to four broad economic scenarios: 
(1) Stocks for profit during times of general 
prosperity or declining inflation; (2) Gold and 



30 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



among funds with differing objectives, ac- 
cording to John Collins, a spokesperson for 
the Washington, D.C.-based Investment 
Company Institute, the mutual fund 
industry's trade association. "That way, one 
fund or another will be ready for selling 
when you need the money," he says. 

But Collins also advocates allocating in- 
vestment dollars according to personal objec- 
tives, another successful approach when con- 
sidering mutual funds. "If the objective is 
long-term growth for a retirement two de- 
cades down the road, I'd seek growth stocks," 
he says. "On the other hand, if I were setting 
aside money for a home down payment, I 
would consider either a money market or 
short-term bond fund. Their net asset value 
(price) at a given rate down the road is more 
predictable, as they're less volatile." 

Richard Sadowsky, a software engineer 
with TurboPower Software, and his wife, 
Cyndi, adhere to this goal-oriented strategy. 
In spite of current economic uncertainty, the 
Colorado Springs, Colo., couple is maintain- 
ing a focus on long-term goals by adding to 
holdings in a variety of aggressive growth 
and balanced no-load funds (those with no 
initial sales charge) that have displayed con- 
sistent outstanding performance over the 
past decade. 

Much of their investment effort is di- 
rected toward building a nest-egg they hope 
will provide a comfortable retirement 25 or 
so years from now. In these accounts, the mix 
is approximately 80 percent aggressive 
growth with such funds as Twentieth Cen- 
tury Ultra and Berger 100, hedged by a 20 
percent stake in the balanced Pax World 
Fund. Balanced funds invest in stocks and 
bonds and aim at providing stable returns in 
good times and bad. 

Like many Baby Boomers, the Sadowskys 
also have immediate plans, including the 
down payment on a home, which is accumu- 
lating in Twentieth Century Balanced. An- 
other is the future education of their 2-year- 
old daughter, Jaquelyn. The Sadowskys are 
building an education fund with monthly 



Picking a Winner with FundWatch Online 



Thinking of mutual funds? Make Fund- 
Watch Online by Money Magazine (GO 
MONEYMAG), part of the Money Maga- 
zine Financial Information Center, your 
first stop. If you have specific funds in 
mind, select Option 1, "Detail a Particular 
Fund," from FundWatch Online's top menu. 
A comprehensive profile is presented, in- 
cluding actual performance data over seven 
time frames, ranging from the current to 10 
previous years and the most recent bull 
and bear markets; comparative rankings 
with other funds; and information on the 
fund's largest portfolio positions. 

The real power of FundWatch Online, 
however, is its ability to sift through data 
and provide a listing of funds that meet 
your criteria. Choose Option 2, "Screen Top 
Performing Funds," and identify your in- 
vestment objectives — aggressive growth, 
balanced growth, growth and income, inter- 
national, municipal bonds, precious metals 
or taxable bonds. 

Let's assume you are cautious on the 
economy and the stock market, but don't 
want to go into cash because you are afraid 
you might miss a major rally. Balanced 
funds may be your best choice, and 
FundWatch Online allows you to screen 
more than 100 of these funds to locate those 
with characteristics suited to your needs. 
Choose among fees and expenses, perfor- 
mance, size, management company, and 
yield and risk as narrowing criteria. For 
example, when paring by yield and risk, 
you can sort by annual dividend yield, 
market sensitivity (beta) or risk rating. 

When screening by risk rating, the re- 
sults uncovered no balanced funds with 
"very low" and 10 with "low" risk. Further 
pruning revealed five funds that had out- 



standing expense ratios less than 1 per- 
cent. Ranked by five-year annualized per- 
formance, they were Mathers Fund (13.4 
percent), Lindner Dividend (9.3 percent), 
Axe-Houghton Fund (9.3 percent) and Per- 
manent Portfolio (4.4 percent). 

Also in the Money Magazine Financial 
Information Center is Money Magazine 
Online where you can read carefully se- 
lected articles on education, taxes, home 
ownership, managing family finances, con- 
trolling a portfolio and spending. All are 
geared to giving practical advice. 

Of particular note is "New Ways to 
Make the Most in Mutual Funds" from the 
May 1991 issue of Money magazine. The 
article probes the growing dissatisfaction 
among fund shareholders and examines 
whether the complaints are warranted. 
The portfolio management feature "Nine 
Great Ways to Get 10% Safely" from the 
July 1991 issue explores places where 
double-digit returns may still be obtainable 
without assuming enormous risk. Several 
mutual fund suggestions are included. 

Most major fund companies offer an 
array of products to satisfy the diverse 
needs of their customers. These fund fami- 
lies, as they are called, are especially at- 
tractive to those with multiple investment 
goals or those who are intrigued by the idea 
of switching between funds in order to take 
advantage of shifting market conditions. 
One of the largest such families, Dreyfus, is 
online in The Electronic Mall (GO DR). For 
details about the more than 50 mutual fund 
offerings from Dreyfus, review its elec- 
tronic brochure by selecting Option 3, "Our 
Portfolio of Free Prospectuses," from the 
Dreyfus main menu. 



deposits in the aggressive Janus Twenty. "I 
was attracted to this fund by the 'Buy 20 
Stocks For $50 a Month' ad Janus runs," says 
Richard. "After investigating and reading 
Forbes, Money and Kiplinger's Personal Fi- 
nance, I decided it would be an excellent 
vehicle for my 15-year savings horizon." 

Regardless of whether the approach is to 
diversify or focus on a single objective, spe- 
cific funds must ultimately be selected. But 
what criteria do you use? 

Many investors, observes Money maga- 
zine Senior Editor Eric Schurenberg, glance 
at the lists of top-performing funds under the 
category that best fits their needs, and buy 
the ones at the top of the charts. "Often, 
these are among the most volatile and may, 
in a quarter or two, become also-rans or 
appear on the lists of worst-performing funds 
as they go through their inevitable cycles of 



boom and bust," he says. 

Many of the short-term, top-performing 
funds are specialized, such as those investing 
in gold, biotechnology or some other area 
that happens to be in favor. "When that part 
of the market ceases to be vogue," says 
Schurenberg, "the funds naturally will 
underperform." 

The case of international stock funds is a 
prime example of the danger of jumping onto 
a bandwagon. Many of these darlings of the 
1980s have fallen on hard times during re- 
cent years. 

The impulse is to blame the managers for 
the abrupt turn of events. But, as Collins 
points out, the problem may be out of their 
control. Managers work under a given set of 
constraints that can limit their investments 
and trading activity. These constraints are 
always outlined in a fund's offering prospec- 



MARCH 1992 ■ 31 



tus, a must-read document 
before purchasing. 

Furthermore, "International 
funds are not only subject to 
the whims of world markets but 
also to fluctuations between the 
US dollar and currencies of 
other nations," says Collins. 
"Thus, while one country's mar- 
ket might be rising, a change 
in currency conversion could 
more than offset the gain." 
Some international funds 
hedge the risks of a falling US 
dollar by buying and selling 
currency futures to offset their stock pur- 
chases. This information is always given in 
the prospectus, too. 

It's a good rule of thumb to examine past 
performance and concentrate on funds that 
display a consistent record of outstanding 
returns over 10-year periods, through good 
and bad markets. Make sure the fund man- 
ager who achieved the outstanding long- 
term returns is still around. And don't forget 



Stock Recommendations 

If you don't want to turn your portfolio over to a mutual fund manager but 
don't feel comfortable analyzing stocks on your own, CompuServe offers 
services that supply stock recommendations: 

Standard & Poor's (GO S&P)— Option 1, "S&P Master List," provides a 
compendium of favored securities that S&P believes are core holdings in 
meeting specific investment goals. The supervision of the Master List is 
continuous. When conditions affecting any issue change for the worse, the 
stock is deleted. Option 2, "Investment Ideas," offers more short-term-oriented 
plays that S&P expects to outperform the market over the next year. The goal 
is active, aggressive management of a portfolio limited in size. When a stock no 
longer meets this investment style, or can be replaced with another expected to 
better meet the objective, a substitution in the list is made. 

MMS International (GO MMS)— Through its Daily Equity Market Report 
newsletter, MMS' 50-person analytical team stationed in 12 world money 
centers, gives it stock predictions. Released each business day by 8 p.m. 
Eastern Time, the newsletter includes a model portfolio of up to 20 stocks with 
suggested purchase and target prices, along with protective stop-loss points. 



to consider the cost of operations. 

Schurenberg reminds investors that fund 
expenses must be distinguished from initial 
sales charges or redemption fees. The former 
are actual expenses (management fees and 
accounting and legal expenses), while the 
latter are fees paid to those marketing the 
product to the public. 

"I prefer no- or low-load funds, as there is 
no statistical evidence that paying higher 



loads brings better perfor- 
mance," he says. "Even more 
vital, it has nothing to do with 
internal fund expense ratios 
despite what many brokers tell 
their customers." 

Once the approach is de- 
fined and the funds selected, 
how do you invest in them? 
Some investors, like Jon 
Johnston, a computer network 
consultant from- Eden Prairie, 
Minn., gradually invest using 
the dollar cost-averaging tech- 
nique whereby they buy the 
same dollar amount of a fund each period. 
For Johnston, this means automatic monthly 
transfers from a checking account, regard- 
less of price. This way, more shares are 
acquired when prices are low, and fewer 
when values rise. 

Dan Wiener, editor of the Vanguard Ad- 
visor newsletter, suggests keeping things 
simple and investing all available money at 
once. "My feeling is that the stock market 




How To Understand Shareware. 

"PC/Computing Guide to Shareware" is the definitive shareware reference. In it, Preston Gralla of PC/Computing gives 
you his in-depth, authoritative evaluation of the 250 programs he considers the best in the shareware market You'll 
learn about their strengths, weaknesses, affordable pricing and how to get them. And as a bonus, you'll also receive 
two free disks filled with the hottest programs available. Call 1-800-688-0448 to order the "PC/Computing 
Guide to Shareware" today (for $34.95 suggested retail price). Simply ask for ISBN 1-56276-036-X. 

GO OLI for more information. 

32 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 




rises over time," he says. "Over several years, 
you aren't going to have a negative return if 
you've done your homework. So, why not get 
money working immediately?" 

Timing purchases to catch 
a bottom market, however, is 
not the best way to go. "I know 
of no one who has been consistently success- 
ful at that game, and theassociated risks of 
being out of the market outweigh the possi- 
ble benefits," says Schurenberg. 

The futility of timing was demonstrated 
by professors P.R. Chandy (University of 
North Texas) and William Reichenstein 
(Baylor University), as reported in the Sept. 
16, 1991, edition of the biweekly Dick Davis 
Digest newsletter. The professors found that 
market profits were concentrated in an 
amazingly small number of short bull runs, 
which, if missed, left one at best only even. 

For the period 1926-87, the average 
monthly gain of the Standard & Poor's 500 
Index was 0.71 percent (9.48 percent on an 
annualized basis). If an investor had stepped 
to the sidelines, accidentally missing the best 



MONEY 
MATTERS 



50 months — 6.7 percent of the total — all of 
the gains over the 62-year period are lost. 
For the average investor, remaining in 
the market can earn a decent 
return over time, through the 
ins and outs of a fluctuating 
economy. Mutual funds fur- 
nish a prudent means of earning that return. 
Schurenberg, a knowledgeable investor who 
daily comes in contact with Wall Street's top 
stock pickers, chooses to rely on mutual 
funds. "I don't have the time to analyze 
balance sheets and income statements," he 
says. "Even if I did, I find it hard to believe 
that I could consistently outperform such 
legendary managers as John Neff (Vanguard 
Windsor), Albert Nicholas (Nicholas Fund) or 
John Templeton (Templeton Funds)." 

Mike Pietruk is a contributing editor of CompuServe Maga- 
zine. His CompuServe User ID number is 76703,4346. 



Job Hunting? 
GO PX and Get Results. 



Every day, top companies search 
Connexion's recruitment net- 
work for people they want to 
hire. You could be one of these 
people. Join Connexion today 
and link up with opportunities 

In ' ■ Technical and non- 
technical fields 

■ Small and large 
companies in all parts 
of the country 

■ Entry level to upper 
management positions 

Companies that want to tap 
Connexion's large and growing 
pool of qualified people should 
call 1-800-338-3282 today. 

GO PX and enter 
Connexion today. 

Questions? 
Call 1-800-338-3282. 



connexion 



The Innovative Recruitment Service 

trom Peterson 's Dept 1489 



GO OLI for more information. 




How To Gn It. 



Every program in the "PC/Computing Guide to Shareware" is available through ZiffNet, the on-line service all about 
computing. You can easily download programs from a fully indexed software library." ZiffNet also plugs you into information on 
what to buy, delivers industry news even before it's in print, and offers forums hosted by the editors r 
of PC Magazine and PC/Computing so you can ask for advice or discuss issues. Sign-up today. *T ££ 
And remember, if you want to get into shareware, you need just two things. This guide. And ZiffNet. AjIII 



NET 



'CompuServe and ZiffNet members type GO ZNT:PBS for direct access to the software library or type GO ZIFFNET to reach the ZiffNet main 
menu. Your credit card will be billed for connect time rates of $12.80/hr. for 1200 or 2400 BPS, $22.80/hr. for 9600 BPS access. © 1992 Ziff Communications. 



GO OLI for more information. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 33 



by Robin Garr 




One of the first on the North Fork's main road, a modern complex with a self-guided tour of grape-harvesting equipment: Palmer Vineyards 



A Hint of Long Island 

ing reputation for fine wines. 

Long Island, jutting east into the Atlantic 
Ocean from New York City, forks at its east- 
em end into a pair of long, narrow peninsu- 
las that look much like a crab claw. Sur- 
rounded on three sides by water (Long Island 
Sound, Peconic Bay and the Atlantic), and 
with the Gulf Stream nearby, the region 
enjoys a surprisingly mild climate. Its vine- 
yards bask in a long, sunny growing season 
that usually lasts more than 200 days: more 
than long enough to nurture fat, juicy grapes 
bursting with the fresh fruit sugar needed to 
make first-rate wine. 

In addition to ensuring a long summer, 
the ocean's moderating effects guard against 
harsh winter freezes. The well-drained, grav- 
elly soil and low, scrubby profile of the North 
Fork, in particular, resemble the geology of 
Bordeaux, France, source of some of the 
world's finest wines. It is no coincidence, 
then, that even prominent French wine ex- 
perts now hail the wine-making potential of 
the North Fork of Long Island. "One of the 
most promising viticultural areas in the 
United States," enthused the noted French 
wine maker and writer Alexis Lichine. "The 
area shows good promise ... Long Island 
wineries should show rapid gains." That's 
what the Hargraves were hoping when they 
had the crazy idea of planting grapes instead 
of potatoes, and they have achieved consid- 
erable acclaim, not to mention the imitation 



TRAVEL 



CM's Travel Credo: 

Bring us your tired, your weary, your 
forlorn spirits and we pledge to ship 
you out to London, Tokyo, Budapest, 
maybe even a Wyoming dude ranch. 
Lengthy luxuries, quick-hit getaways 
and memories guaranteed. 

T 

Napa on the 
Atlantic 
▼ 

Online Tastings, p. 36 



► The genie (and spirits) are out of 
the bottle on the United States' 
new wine country, the North Fork. 

Armed with a master's degree in Chinese 
and a layman's love of good food and wine, 
Alex Hargrave and his wife, Louisa, were 
just a few years out of college when they 
decided to leave the world of academics 
to follow their dream of growing grapes 
and making good wine. 

They looked into California's Napa 
Valley and the Pacific Northwest and 
even thought about other countries, 
but settled on land long used for potato 
and cabbage fanning on New York's 
Long Island, less than 100 miles east of 
Manhattan's towers. 

Early in 1973, American consumers 
were beginning a flirtation with fine 
wine that led to a booming growth in 
sales lasting nearly two decades. It was 
then that the Hargraves planted their 
farm near the village of Cutchogue 
with quality French grapevines. 

Despite near-hurricane storms that 
battered the vines, not to mention in- 
credulous looks from friends told of 
their plans, the Hargraves soon found wine 
lovers beating a path to the winery door. It 
wasn't long before friendly competitors 
started making wine, too. And now, although 
Long Island wine by and large remains a 
delicious secret, the region is gaining a grow- 



34 



COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Good Wine, 

A good wine makes a good meal even better, 
and good food goes a long way to enhance the 
pleasure of even the finest wine. The marriage 
between food and wine (both on the table and in 
the pot) is a subject of considerable interest to 
members of CompuServe's Bacchus Wine Forum 
and its "next-door neighbor," Cooks Online Fo- 
rum. Both forums' libraries are filled with excel- 
lent files containing information on tasting food 
and wine, as well as tasty recipes for cooking 
with wine. Here, just to whet your appetite, is an 
alluring sampler from the bill of fare: 

BACCHUS WINE FORUM 

(GO WINEFORUM or GO BEER) 

Most wine-and-food matching discussions, 
along with a potpourri of outstanding wine- 
cookery recipes, are in Section 4, "Food & Wine." 
Highlights from the Food & Wine library include: 



that is the sincerest form of flattery. The 
island houses 13 wineries now, virtually all 
of them stretched along a 20-mile swath of 
the North Fork. They produce an estimated 2 
million bottles of wine in an average year. 

Long Island wineries are well-known for 
prize-winning Chardonnays, Rieslings and 
Gewurztraminers, but red wines, particu- 
larly Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, are 
also winning critical accolades. The region's 
wines have won more than 400 awards in 
state, national and international competi- 
tion, says Robert Palmer, New York City 
advertising executive and proprietor of Long 
Island's Palmer Vineyards. 

All of the wineries offer wine-tasting 
(most with a nominal fee), and a few invite 
visitors to follow along on generally informal 
tours. Although few people associate a day in 
the wine country with a trip to New York 
City, the North Fork is quite accessible to the 
city. While schedules vary seasonally and 
change frequently, virtually all of the winer- 
ies are open to visitors daily during the 
summer and on weekend afternoons most of 
the year. At other times, it's wise to call 
ahead, particularly during the winter. 

To get to the North Fork wine country 
from New York City, take the Long Island 
Expressway to its eastern end, a 75-mile 
route that can, unfortunately, be congested 
and slow on summer weekends and during 
commuter rush hours. Follow Suffolk County 
Road 58 to Route 25 (Main Road), where 



Grape Taste: Food and 

Conference Transcript— From a Cooks On- 
line conference on matching food and wine. 

Brunch Entree— Eggs in a sauce made with 
Barolo, a hearty Italian red wine. EGBARO.SB. 

Clam Dish— A piquant clam dish and salsa 
appetizer. CLAMS RH. 

Chicken Entree— Chicken and shrimp in 
tomato sauce, a festive wine-laced entree. 
CHICK.DP. 

Beer Cookery— Beer fanciers have a selec- 
tion of recipes archived in Library 15, "Commer- 
cial Beer," as the "Cooking With Beer" series, 
files CWB01.TXT through CWB13.TXT. Also 
available in Cooks Online. 



Drink Files 

COOKS ONLINE FORUM 
(GO COOKS) 

Wine-cookery recipes in Cooks Online are 
found in various forum libraries, depending on 
the primary ingredient in the recipe. 

Cool Down— How to make your own wine 
coolers. Library 3, "First Choice," COOLER.TXT. 

Wine desserts— Berries and cantaloupe 
desserts in red wine, FRTWIN.TXT; and hazel- 
nut cake with wine-scented nectarines, HZL- 
NUT.TXT. Library 5, "Desserts and Sweets." 

Heartier fare— Wine-related entrees, includ- 
ing brisket, BEFBRK.TXT; red wine pot roast, 
REDWIN.TXT; and beef a la mode from the Col- 
ony Club, BEEF.TXT. Lighter dinner items with 
wine include shrimp in orange-mustard sauce, 
SHRMUS.TXT and chicken fricassee with peppers, 
CHKKP.TXT, in Library 6, "Meat-Poultry-Fish." 





After farm antiquities, steel tanks and oak barrels, the main attraction: Palmer Vineyards tasting room 



large, green-and- white "Wine Country" signs 
direct tourists to the wineries. 

Palmer Vineyards (Box 2125, Sound Ave., 
Aquebogue, NY 11931, 516/722-WINE), one 
of the first wineries you'll reach, is an excel- 
lent place to start, with a self-guided tour of 
the modern, low-slung gray wood complex 



offering a quick primer on wine making. 
Large signs offer simple explanations as you 
walk past machines that remove the stems 
and break the skins of fresh grapes as they 
come into the winery at harvest time, then 
press them to release the sweet juice that 
will become wine. The skins, stems and seeds 



are removed from the juice to make white 
wine, the signs explain; more robust red 
wines are fermented with all the fruit re- 
maining in the juice. 

Moving through the bright corridors of 
the long building, past antique farm imple- 
ments, visitors pass gleaming steel tanks 
and oak barrels, where the young wine is 
fermented and aged, and then a miniature 
assembly line where automatic machinery 
fills, corks and labels the bottles. At the end 
of the tour, visitors are welcome in a cozy 
tasting room, where adults can sample the 
winery's products for 50 cents a glass (with a 
25 cent refund on each taste if you buy wine 
to take home). Current offerings include a 
crisp, slightly sweet 1988 Gewurztraminer 
($7.75); an oaky, apple-like 1989 Barrel Fer- 
mented Chardonnay ($12.75); and a fruity 
1987 Merlot ($11.99) with a delicious hint of 
cherries in its aroma. 

A few miles farther out on the North 
Fork, the next recommended stop is 
Hargrave Vineyard (P.O. Box 927, Cut- 
chogue, NY 11935; 516/734-5158). As the 



Fresh, Fruity or Utterly Brackish? 

You can almost hear the clink of glasses and the buzz of happy 
conversation when the wine lovers and beer tasters of Compu- 
Serve's Bacchus Wine Forum (GO WINEFORUM or GO BEER) 
gather for their monthly "Online Tastings," which with the econ- 
omy of prose typical of online enthusiasts, they abbreviate to "OLT." 

No, Wine Forum members haven't solved the technical problem 
of funneling wine or beer through their modems. But they're doing 
the next-best thing by using the forum conference mode to gather at 
scheduled times to learn more about their favorite beverages and to 
share the joy of wine appreciation with online friends. 

In addition to its traditional tastings of seasonal specialties, 
including conferences to hail the annual release of the French 
Nouveau Beaujolais in late autumn, warming Ports and Sherries in 
mid-winter, and light-hearted "picnic" wines in summer, the Wine 
Forum has recently initiated a monthly series of "palate calibra- 
tion" tastings for wine (the first Wednesday of each month at 9:30 
p.m. Eastern time) and beer (second Wednesday, same time). 

The concept is simple, as Forum Manager Jim Kronman ex- 
plains: "The purpose of these tastings is to assist both beginners 
and experts in agreeing on common vocabulary for describing the 
aroma and taste sensations experienced from various types of 
wines." The term "palate calibration" expresses it well. Everyone in 
the conference tastes the same wine or beer at the same time and 
discusses their reactions in search of a consensus on basic tasting 
terms, such as "acidic," "tannic," "malty," "hoppy," "fruity" or "bitter." 

Novice tasters get expert guidance, while more knowledgeable 
aficionados have the pleasure of matching their taste buds with the 
experts. The only firm rules are that everyone's opinion, from 
beginner to guru, is worthy of respect, and that an analytic tasting 
of beer or wine is fun. 

The tastings, held in the forum's Conference Room 1 (The Main 
Hall) or Room 5 (The Brewery), are formally conducted to ensure 



Wine Forum Tastings 

that everyone gets a chance to participate. Members take turns 
describing the impressions they get from sniffing and tasting the 
wine or beer being tested, then exchange comments with others in 
the group. "One primary rule of tasting in this forum is that there 
are no 'right' or 'wrong' sensations," Kronman says. "The objective is 
to correlate the personal sensation with a shared vocabulary." 

Wines and beers for the palate calibrations (inevitably abbrevi- 
ated to "PalaCals") are chosen by an informal poll of members in 
forum messages, with the emphasis on wide availability in the 
United States, Canada and Europe, and reasonable price. Recent 
selections for wine "calibrations" have included the 1988 Beaulieu 
Vineyards "Rutherford" Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon and the 
1990 Chateau Ste. Michelle Washington State Dry Riesling, both 
first-rate wines available in the $10 range within the United States. 
Beer "calibrations" have featured the products of outstanding US 
microbreweries including Samuel Adams of Boston and Anchor 
Brewing of San Francisco. Specifics of each month's tastings are 
announced well in advance in forum messages and the forum's 
News Flash announcement. 

For more background on online tastings, new members also are 
encouraged to download transcripts of past conferences, such as file 
1106CO.SCR in Library 0, "General/Questions," a tasting of 
Beaulieu Vineyards "Rutherford" Cabernet; or 1009CO.SCR in 
Library 15, "Commercial Beer," featuring the Anchor beers. 

"What all members gain from this experience is a greater 
confidence in their own palates and the ability to taste and 
communicate the sensations experienced with others," Kronman 
says. What's more, sharing the experience with online friends 
makes wine and beer appreciation fun. 

—EG 



36 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



oldest vineyard and winery in the region, it 
boasts the advantage of older grapevines, 
which usually produce more complex wine 
than new plantings. There's nothing preten- 
tious about the Hargraves' low, simple gray 
building, set back about 100 yards from the 
highway and surrounded by vineyards. Its 
decor is limited to walls covered with awards, 
prize ribbons, and articles from national and 
international publications praising the vine- 
yard; the wines on display in the small tast- 
ing room are perhaps the area's best. 

Current selections range from $7.99 for 
the "Petit Chateau" Cabernet Sauvignon, a 
non-vintage bottling that's fresh, fruity and 
light, to $16.99 for the 1988 Cabernet 
Sauvignon, a cellar-worthy red wine with a 
pleasant scent reminiscent of blueberries. 

Around on the south shore of the North 
Fork, amid villages dotted with quaint white 
church steeples and old stone 
houses, The Lenz Winery (P.O. 
Box 28, Peconic, NY 11958; 
516/734-6010) is located in an 
old farm complex painted a startling pink. 
A house, the winery buildings and tasting 
room form a quadrangle around a courtyard 
shaded by ancient maple trees. 

Former restaurateurs Peter and Patricia 
Lenz planted their vineyards in 1978 and 
opened the winery in 1983. One of its best 
current wines is the 1989 Gold Label 
Chardonnay ($14.99), with an exceptional 
aroma of pears and chestnuts and a rich, 
almost buttery flavor. 

Westward along the North Fork's south 
coast, cat lovers will find kindred spirits at 
the home of Bedell Cellars (RR 1, Mail Road, 
Cutchogue, NY 11935; 516/734-7537), where 
"Caution: Cat Crossing" signs greet Kip and 
Susan Bedell's visitors. The winery, a 
chocolate-color building, is back from the 
road, almost hidden behind an old farmhouse 
with vineyards out back. 

A particularly lovely pink wine, the 
non-vintage "Cygnet" ($6.49) is a blend of 
Riesling and Merlot. The 1989 Merlot 
($13.99) and 1989 Cabernet Sauvignon 
($14.99) demonstrate Long Island's growing 
intrigue with fine Bordeaux-style reds. 

Finally, a stop at Gristina Vineyards (P.O. 
Box 1009, Cutchogue, NY 11971; 516/734- 
7089) completes a full afternoon of wine 
touring. Dr. Jerry Gristina and his wife, 
Carol, have built one of Long Island's newest 
wineries in a striking contemporary struc- 
ture of wood and glass. It sprawls atop a low 
hill, with oversize windows and a broad ve- 
randa overlooking 30 acres of vineyards. 
Gristina's 1990 Chardonnay ($12.99) is rich 
and oaky, and its 1989 Merlot ($12.99) and 
1989 Cabernet Sauvignon ($13.99) both 
show good fruit and signs of improving with 
age in the bottle. 

With quality wines coming from vine- 




Riesling and Merlot grapes fill the fields, treaded upon by the occasional feline: Bedell Cellars 



TRAVEL 



yards blessed with an excellent environment 
for fine grapes, and easy access to a ready 
market in New York City and 
beyond, Long Island's wine 
country won't remain a secret 
for long. Wine publisher and 
beverage-marketing expert Marvin R. 
Shanken, editor and publisher of The Wine 



Spectator, recently observed, "I predict that 
Long Island will become the East Coast's 
answer to the Napa Valley ... respected 
around the world for the outstanding quality 
of its wines." 

Robin Garr, associate sysop of CompuServe's Bacchus Wine 
Forum, is a New York-based writer who frequently covers 
travel, food and wine. His User ID number is 76702,764. 



GO OU for more information. 

MARCH 1992 ■ 37 



by Martha Barnette 



Sheer Genius 



PERSONAL 
BUSINESS 



CM's Personal Business Credo: 

It's our business to help you achieve 
your personal best. Wise consumer. 
Time watcher. Intricate researcher. 
Savvy politico. Grown-up kid. 
You've got the need, we've got the 
gear; it's all right here. 

T 

Smart Talk 

T 

A Doorway for 
the Deaf, p. 41 



► Defining the nebulous notion of 
'intelligence' gets heady in a new 
forum from the Mensa brainiacs. 

If you think of Mensa as a haven for 
eggheads and nerdy social misfits, then 
you've never met any of the "Hell's Mensans" 
— the international high-IQ society's unoffi- 
cial wild-and-crazy bunch. Their stated pur- 
pose, according to Mensan Dave Van 
Geest, is "to party." 

You can pick them out at any Mensa 
gathering: They're the ones in the 
black-and-white T-shirts a la Harley- 
Davidson (with an owl replacing the 
eagle insignia). Some of their more 
resourceful and fashion-savvy mem- 
bers even sport studded leather pocket 
protectors. So who says Mensans don't 
have a sense of humor? 

In fact, Mensans insist that the ste- 
reotypical image of their elite organi- 
zation — the notion that they're all ei- 
ther insecure snobs or brilliant dweebs 
—is as outdated as the slide-rule. And 
now you can judge for yourself, because 
Mensa is now online. 

The Mensa Forum (GO MENSA) is 
open to all CompuServe members, re- 
gardless of whether they belong to Mensa. 
Visitors will find "varied and scintillating 
discussions on a variety of topics," says 
Mensa Chairman Dave Pelt. The forum is 
unique, Felt says, in that the subject matter 
is extremely wide-ranging — from paleontol- 
ogy to puzzlesolving, from visual art to intel- 
ligence testing — whatever forum members 
have on their minds. 

When two English barristers founded the 



first Mensa chapter at Oxford University in 
1946, they envisioned bringing together 
highly intelligent people to help solve the 
world's problems. They chose the name 
"Mensa" (Latin for "table") to reflect their 
ideal of "a roundtable of equals." Today the 
organization boasts 100,000 members in 100 
nations worldwide, with new chapters in 
Eastern Europe, 

Mensa's requirement for membership is a 
score in the top 2 percent of the population in 
any of a variety of standardized tests. While 
the society once relied solely on IQ tests to 
screen members, it now accepts comparable 
scores on such tests as the Scholastic Apti- 
tude Test (SAT), Graduate Record Exam 
(GRE), and Army/Navy Classification Tests. 

Mensans range in age from 4 to 94, and 
are quick to point out the diversity within 
their organization. Mensa, they say, provides 
a common meeting ground for such disparate 
groups as millionaires and unemployed in- 
ventors, high-school dropouts and post- 
doctoral students. Its famous members have 
included writers Jean Auel and Isaac Asimov, 
actors Alan Rachins (Douglas Brachman 
on LA, Law) and Geena Davis of the hit 
movie Thelma & Louise, Florida Judge Ellen 
"Maximum" Morphonios, and professional 
domino-toppler Bob Specta Jr. 

Among the organization's biggest attrac- 
tions are the nearly 200 Mensa Special In- 
terest Groups (SIGs) scattered throughout 
the United States. Mensans have formed 
SIGs based on such shared interests as choc- 
olate, vampires, hang-gliding, punk rock, 
nudism, bodybuilding, clowning and cats. 
There are Mensan SIGs for Egyptologists, 



38 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Download off the Mind: Mensa Forum 



As the French essayist Montaigne observed, 
"It is good to rub and polish your mind against 
the minds of others." Mensa invites you to do 
just that in its new forum. Here's a look at what 
you'll find in its sections and libraries: 

"About Mensa"— Background information, 
plus sample quizzes to give you an idea of how 
you'd score on a qualifying test. Includes profiles 
of famous Mensans, such as a boxer who once 
fought Mike Tyson, and a former chairman of the 
Ford Motor Co, 

"Testing & Research"— Are IQ tests valid? 
How do you measure giftedness in the arts? 



"General Discussion/Living Room"— An 
online salon. 

"Gifted Children"— Resources for parents, 
teachers and children. 

"Scholarship Programs"— The Mensa Ed- 
ucation and Research Foundation awards thou- 
sands of dollars each year in scholarships. Learn 
how to apply. 

"Literacy and Education"— Information 
about promoting literacy, a favorite Mensa 
cause. 

"Science & Technology"— A wide spec- 
trum of discussion. 



"The Arts"— Conversations about art and 
creativity. 

"Mind to Mind"— About relationships. 

"Gatherings"— The latest on upcoming 
offline Mensa gatherings, which are usually 
open to the public. 

"International"— Talk with smart people in 
Romania, Hungary and other locations. 

"Interest Groups (SIGs)"— Special Inter- 
est Groups. 

"Teasers and Puzzles"— Match wits with 
Mensans. Pun control advocates beware: This 
section promises to be paronomasia paradise. 



feudal Japan enthusiasts, lesbians and gays, 
Sherlock Holmes fans, tap-dancers, as well 
as a group called "Two Percent for Christ." 
"We really are a microcosm of the rest of 
society," says Felt. 

Indeed, talk to Mensans long enough and 
they begin to fit the profile of CompuServe 
members in general — literate, reasonably 
bright and intensely interested in at least 
one topic. So why have an online Mensa 



Forum? "Granted, there may be some over- 
lap between this forum and others," says 
Felt, "but I don't think that'll do anything but 
help us all." 

Elna Tymes, the forum's co-principal 
sysop, notes that in addition to providing a 
place for meetings of the mind, "we'll also 
have more humane, person-to-person sup- 
port." Intellectually gifted people often face a 
difficult time growing up in this society, she 



says, and the forum offers them "a place 
where it's OK to be smart." It also includes 
sections devoted to parents of gifted children, 
literacy training and scholarship programs. 

Primarily, though, the new Mensa Forum 
will be an online salon for lively, wide- 
ranging discussions with like-minded folks. 
It is certain to spark debates about what 
constitutes "superior intelligence" and how 
reliably it can be measured. Mensans them- 



cQq 



ELECTRONIC EDITION 
TRAVEL SERVICE 



Total Control In Travel Planning That's Complete, 
Accurate, Fast, Up-To-The-Minute & Easy To Use 



• Information rich databases cover 
everything for business and 
leisure travel-airlines, cruises, 
hotels, restaurants, airport-to-city 
transportation, weather reports 
and much more 



• Fast access/ Easy to use 

• Find and compare the 
lowest fares 

• Airline reservation 
capability 



Arrivals/Departures updated 
every 10 minutes 
From OAG, the world's most 
trusted travel planning source 
for over 60 years 



GO OAG TO ACCESS: GO OAG TO ACCESS: GO OAG TO ACCESS: GO OAG TO 



GO OLI for more information. 



MARCH 1992 



39 



Smart Enough for Ya? A Mensa Quiz 



Test your mental acuity with the follow- 
ing Mensa mini-test. Answers are online in 
the Mensa Forum's News Flash (GO 
MENSA). 

1. If two typists can type two pages in 
two minutes, how many typists will it take 
to type 18 pages in six minutes? 

2. If it were two hours later, it would be 
half as long until midnight as it would be if 
it were an hour later. What time is it now? 

3. Pear is to apple as potato is to: 

a) banana 

b) radish 

c) strawberry 

d) peach 

e) lettuce 

4. Which group of numbers best contin- 
ues the series of numbers? 

1 10 39587796?? 

a) 11 5 

b) 10 5 

c) 10 4 

d) 11 6 



5. Which of the following is least like ti 
others? 

a) poem d) statue 

b) novel e) flower 

c) painting 

6. Unscramble the following word. 
HCPRAATEU 

7. What number is one-half of one- 
quarter of one-tenth of 400? 

8. Which sentence below means approx- 
imately the same as the proverb "Don't 
count your chickens until they are 
hatched'? 

a) Some eggs have double yolks, so you can't 
really count eggs and chickens. 

b) You can't walk around the henhouse to 
count the eggs because it will disturb the 
hens and they won't lay eggs. 




It is not really sensible to rely on some- 
thing that has not yet happened and may 
not ever happen. 

d) Since eggs break so easily, you may not be 
accurate in your count of future chickens. 

9. The same three-letter word can be 
placed in front of the following words to 
make a new word. What is it? 

light 

break 

time 

10. Which figure a-d best completes the 
series of drawings? 



TT 



c) 



TT 



Mill! 



Mill 








III 




MM J 




1 


/ 1 




INI 




/ III 




II 




/ Mill 



©1989 American Mensa, Ltd. 



GO AMA 

spells the answer to 
all your training needs! 

Now you can get on line with AMA (American Management 
Association), the nation's #1 business trainer. Just GO AMA and 

■ Preview descriptions of ten of our most popular 
management seminars 

■ Receive a free catalog with over 150 seminar titles 

■ Get one-on-one career guidance through our 
Resource Advisory Service 

■ Request other AMA training information — 

books, membership, tapes, self-study programs, etc. 

■ Even register on-line for an AMA seminar 

To find out how AMA can train you for career success, 
just type GO AMA or call 1-518-891-0065 and mention 
priority code XC0P. 

American Management Association 

Helping you compete worldwide through better management' 1 ' 



selves are divided on this issue. "Is an artist 
who can't read 'smart'?" muses Felt. "He may 
be a blooming genius. Some form of test 
would show that." Van Geest, the forum's 
other sysop, notes that "tests are designed by 
humans, and humans are fallible." 

A growing recognition that intelligence 
takes many forms has prompted Mensa to 
expand its eligibility criteria to include tests 
that are strictly visual rather than verbal, 
and the so-called "culturally fair" IQ tests 
devised to deflect charges of bias. Still, 
Mensa remains 65 percent male and less 
than 3 percent are from minority groups, 
suggesting to some members that even those 
tests are faulty. Intelligence testing is such a 
hot topic that one section of the forum is 
devoted entirely to it. 

Men sans welcome comments from skepti- 
cal non-members. "Mensa created a bit of a 
publicity difficulty years ago when it pro- 
moted itself as the high-IQ society," says 
Felt. "Granted, we still do that, but I think 
much of the population read that as 'The 
Genius Society.' We have geniuses, certainly, 
but ... if you're bright enough to be on Compu- 
Serve, you're probably bright enough to be in 
Mensa— and that includes a lot of kids. 

"In many ways, we're pretty standard 
folks," he says. "So stop in and give us a try." 

Martka Barnette is a writer in Louisville, Ky, Her book of 
essays on etymology, A Garden of Words, will be published 
this spring by Times Books I Random House. 



GO OLI for more information. 
40 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



by Holly G. Miller 



Lending an 
Electronic Ear 



Larry Orloff admits he was nervous the 
day he entered Dr. Steven Rauch's office at 
the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary to 
weigh the pros and cons of cochlear implant 
surgery. Then he spotted a copy of Online 
Today, forerunner to CompuServe Magazine. 
That broke the ice and calmed the jitters. 
After all, online discussions 
and lively message threads 
had first stirred Orloffs inter- 
est in the delicate procedure 
that eventually would im- 
prove his ability to hear. 

"We spent several minutes 
talking about our involvement 
with the CompuServe Informa- 
tion Service," says Orloff, now 
leader of the Hearing-Impair- 
ment section of the Disabili- 
ties Forum (GO DISABILI- 
TIES). "Later, as I went 
through several months of 
preliminary testing, I was 
able to share my concerns and 
ask questions via CompuServe 
Mail. I consider myself fortu- 
nate that of all the ear sur- 
geons at the infirmary, I was 
referred to a fellow Compu- 
Serve member." 

The long process culmi- 
nated in an operation that 
was perfect in every respect, 
according to Orloff. Forum 
members cheered when he re- 
ported hearing, for the first 
time, the squeaky door his 
wife had urged him to fix. Two 
years after surgery, Orloff 
continues to host conferences 




Pre-surgery queries answered by e-mail, he now hosts cochlear implant confabs: Orloff, with Rauch 



PERSONAL 
BUSINESS 



about cochlear implants — but now he does it 
with added insights. 

"Larry patiently answered 
my zillions of questions while 
I was waiting for, having and 
adjusting to the implant," 
says Joan Maxwell, who describes her sur- 
gery as "a smashing success." The cycle con- 
tinues: Maxwell, in Massachusetts, hopes to 



Read More About It 

By selecting the key words HEARING IMPAIRED and DEAF, CompuServe 
members can retrieve from two online databases more than 100 magazine and 
journal articles related to hearing loss. Entries offer updates on technological 
breakthroughs, profiles of prominent deaf persons, status reports on legisla- 
tion of interest to the deaf community and reviews of new products. 

Several articles contained in Magazine Database Plus {GO MAGDB) deal 
with cochlear implants for children, a recently approved procedure: 

1990 decision, FDA Consumer, 
Oct. 1990, article #09073314. 
"Electronic Earful: Cochlear Im- 
plants Sound Better All the Time" 
explains advancements in the de- 
vices first implanted in adults in 
1984 and now available to young- 
sters, by Deborah Erickson, Scien- 
tific American, Nov. 1990, article 
#09021214. 



► "New Hope for Deaf Children" sug- 
gests promising results for chil- 
dren 2 years of age and older who 
have a tiny 22-channel device im- 
planted in their ears, by Gillian 
Weiss, American Health: Fitness of 
Body and Mind, Nov. 1990, article 
#09004444. 

► "FDA Approves Marketing of 
Cochlear implant for Children" of- 
fers details on the government's 

The role that computers play in the lives of the hearing impaired is covered 
in several articles in Business Database Plus (GO BUSDB). Among them: 



"High-Tech Aids Offer New Op- 
tions to Deaf, Blind," The Futurist, 
Sept-Oct. 1989, article #07893027. 
"Computers Star in New Commu- 
nication Concepts for Physically 
Disabled People," by Marsha F. 
Goldsmith, The Journal of the 



American Medical Association, 
March 3, 1989, article #07365969. 
"Cheers to IBM for Uncovering 
Technology's Human Side," PC 
Week, Jan. 16, 1989, article 
#06946968. 



provide thesame kind of support for Joanne 
Schneider, currently being screened for the 
implant in California. "We 
keep in constant touch 
through electronic mail," she 
says. "It's my turn to answer 
zillions of questions, and I'm thrilled to do it." 

Online discussions aren't limited to 
cochlear implants, but rather delve into the 
specifics of speech-recognition 
f. software, training programs 
| for hearing-ear dogs and inno- 
vations in deaf education. 
Problems are quickly solved: 
A father learns how to com- 
municate on the telephone 
with his profoundly deaf 
daughter; an office worker 
gathers tips on overcoming 
communication difficulties 
caused by a new open floor 
plan. 

"Many people with hearing 
impairments don't know oth- 
ers with this disability and 
have never been able to share 
experiences," says Orloff. "The 
Hearing Impairments section 
is a meeting place. Here, the 
inability to hear is not a hand- 
icap. We can communicate as 
well as anyone with normal 
hearing, and this is a tremen- 
dous benefit — especially for 
those feeling isolated because 
they have difficulty in social 
interactions involving spoken 
communication." 

Debates fire up when pro- 
ponents of sign language ar- 
gue in favor of a "deaf cul- 
ture," and oralists support lip- 



MARCH 1992 ■ 41 



reading and speech as ways to function in the 
mainstream of a hearing society. Message 
threads grow long as section members make 
their points and illustrate them with per- 
sonal experiences. 

"It's a great show and never boring," says 
Henry Kisor, literary critic for the Chicago 
Sun-Times and author of What's That Pig 
Outdoors?, his acclaimed autobiography 
about coping with lifelong deafness. (The 
title comes from an inaccurate lip reading of 
his hearing son's question, "What's that big, 
loud noise?") "I see a wide range of views that 
sometimes clash. They have underscored for 
me the idea that each case of deafness is 
unlike that of any other, and that coping 
strategies differ widely. I've learned from the 
strategies and philosophies of others. Deaf 
and hearing-impaired participants in this 
section tend to be very bright, spirited, con- 
tentious people — and also very articulate. 
The discussions are always interesting and 
sometimes heated. We gain great insights 
into the lives of others like us." Hearing users 
also can learn from participating in the sec- 
tion, says Kisor. "For instance, an employer 
considering a deaf job applicant could get 
some idea of the strengths (many) and limi- 
tations (few) of the deaf by tuning in to the 
hearing-impaired. 



Non-impaired users also gain insights. "A 
hearing person entering a relationship with 
a deaf person of the opposite sex could find 
some insights here as well. And anyone with 
any curiosity about the won- 
derful variety of human cul- 
tures will be fascinated." 
Among the hearing members 
of the section is Jim Dellon, senior producer/ 
director in television production at Gallaudet 
University. His projects include Deaf Mosaic, 
a monthly magazine show for and about deaf 
people that is aired on the Discovery Chan- 
nel. Also active is Tom Gallaudet III, whose 
family introduced sign language to the 
United States, founded the American School 
for the Deaf, and eventually launched what 
is now Gallaudet University, the only insti- 
tution in the world devoted solely to the 
education of the deaf. 

"I've been accessing the Disabilities Fo- 
rum for years to monitor areas of interest to 
the deaf community that might be of use on 
Deaf Mosiac," says Dellon. "CompuServe 
makes story planning easier than the tele- 
phone since there's no phone tag, and there's 
a written record of pre-interview questions 
and answers and even directions to the field- 
production location." 

Gallaudet sees participation in the sec- 



PERSONAL 
BUSINESS 



tion as a way he can continue his family's 
involvement with the deaf community. An 
expert in telecommunication devices for the 
deaf (TDDs), he fields questions about cur- 
rent and future products. He 
applauds any technology that 
results in broader communi- 
cation and predicts fax ma- 
chines and computers will replace TDDs. 

"The more we communicate with other 
people, the more we learn," Gallaudet says. 
"Most of us exist within a 'community' of 
family, friends and co-workers that keeps our 
knowledge rather stagnant. Any time we can 
break out of our particular community, we 
grow from the input we get. CompuServe 
expands the community and provides input 
from people with views we may never have 
known about." 

Interest in the non-hearing world has 
been heightened by the television program 
Reasonable Doubts starring Oscar-winning 
actress Marlee Matlin, who is deaf. Section 
members are divided on whether or not the 
deaf experience is portrayed accurately in 
the weekly drama. 

"Someone recently pointed out that 
Matlin's co-star, Mark Harmon, at times 
speaks' with his back turned from Matlin. 
This is a no-no that hearing people may not 



CO RX 



FULL SERVICE DISCOUNT 
ONLINE PHARMACY 

• Ask the Pharmacist... 
-Free price quotes 
-Drug information 
-Hard to find products 

• Thousands of products 
available including... 

-Family planning 
-Vitamins 
-Contact lens care 

• Speedy Service 

• Time saving & convenient 
resource 

• Free delivery to all of USA for 
purchases over $50 

• We ship overseas 



COURT PHARMACY 
ONLINE 

ALWAYS FREE CONNECT 
1- 800-367-7988 

GO RX 



GO OU for more information. 




Hi 



Sound Advice: Forum Files 



Tutors? Interpreters? Note-takers? Thera- 
pists? 

When a college-bound student went shop- 
ping for a school that offered support services 
for the deaf, she queried 140 admissions offices, 
distilled each reply to a sentence or two, and 
uploaded the report to Library 3, "Hearing Im- 
pairments," of the Disabilities Forum. Her re- 
search, in the file COLLGE.LST, is typical of the 
practical answers and sound advice contained 
in the forum's extensive files. Other nuts-and- 
bolts information includes: 
Can a computer "talk" with a telecommuni- 
cation device for the deaf (TDD)? Beyond the 
"yes, but ..." response, file TDDCOM.TXT 
describes the equipment needed to make the 
two pieces of equipment— each with a differ- 
ent coding system— compatible. 
»- TDDs: What's the difference? Like the porta- 
ble typewriters they resemble, TDDs vary in 
features and price. BUVTDD.TXT describes 
several available options, while TDDTTY.LST 
provides a guide to models produced by 19 
manufacturers. 
p- How are television programs captioned? 
CAPTON.TXT details the process and costs 
(about 51,300 per half-hour show) of adding 
text to tape on TV broadcasts. CCVIDO.LST 
offers a list of home videos that are close- 
captioned for viewers with hearing impair- 
ments. Many of the shows are suitable for 



children; choices range from Adventures in 
Babysitting to You're The Greatest, Charlie 
Brown. 

How should a hearing-impaired job-seeker 
handle an interview? JOB.TXT offers words 
of advice and includes a list of organizations 
willing to assist candidates in the job market. 
What are cochlear implants and how suc- 
cessful are they? IMPLNT.TXT supplies bask 
information in quick-and-easy Q&A style. 
NEWCI.TXT is a message thread that re- 
counts the experiences of a forum member 
as he progressed from implant candidate to 
implant recipient. CICI.TXT explains the role 
of the Cochlear Implant Club International. 




42 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



GOPW 



be conscious of," says Orloff. "Also, some of 
our hearing lurkers have been amused to 
find out what Matlin is really signing, which 
at times, is decidedly different from what 
Harmon is translating for the hearing." 

One of the first stereotypes that is dis- 
pelled by a visit to the section is that deaf 
persons view their deafness as a condition 
that somehow has to be overcome. Forum 
member Roselle Weiner take issue with the 
term "hearing impaired" and argues that 
deafness is not an illness that begs a cure. 

"I do not see myself as an impaired per- 
son," she says. "Being deaf doesn't have to 
mean you try harder all your life to compete 
with hearing people; it doesn't have to mean 
you will be lonely most of your life because 
you can't find enough hearing people with 
the patience to share their time with you; it 
doesn't have to mean making concessions 
socially all the time. There is a life — diff- 
erent — for deaf people if you want it. A hear- 
ing person coming to this forum has the 
chance to eavesdrop on all of the things we 
deafies can do and are doing. Hearing mem- 
bers can be enlightened." 

Dr. David Manning, manager of the Dis- 
abilities Forum, daily witnesses the benefits 
of this "community expansion" from a profes- 
sional and personal standpoint. Director of 



the Mainstream Center at the Clarke School 
for the Deaf, he watches as his students 
learn to upload and download library files, 
conduct research for classes, and access such 
information as weather reports and news 
headlines. The importance of the computer 
in deaf education is underscored at home. 

"My son is deaf, so I know what I'm 
talking about," he explains. "Before we had 
information services such as CompuServe, 
deaf people communicated with each other 
by getting into a car and driving to the other 
person's home. To communicate by phone, 
both parties had to have TDDs. Now, with 
computer technology, they can give and get 
so much information. It expands their lives. 
For a deaf person, who, by virtue of a hearing 
loss is starved for information, this is a 
doorway to the world." 

Orloff agrees: "Here, the barriers are 
down, and we all play on a level playing field. 
The forum provides a unique arena in which 
the hearing and deaf can interact in a very 
human way." 

Holly G. Miller is managing editor o/'Progressions magazine 
of Lilly Endowment and travel editor of The Saturday 
Evening Post Her CompuServe User ID number is 
70007,2345. 




C'E P RO« l 



OnLine Superstore for Discount Office Products 

• Brand Name Office Products at 
Unbelievable Savings. 

Computer Accessories 
Diskettes and Computer Paper 
Pens from BIC to ZEBRA 
Plus Thousands of Items at 
Deep Discounts 

• Guaranteed Low Prices 

• Order Anytime, Day or Night 

• Fast, Free Delivery Anywhere in the 
Continental U.S. for Orders over $25 

• No Hassle Returns 

• Toll-free Customer Service 
1-800-942-3311 

• Free Full Color Catalog 



PENNY WISE 
OFFICE PRODUCTS 
ALWAYS FREE CONNECT 

To see our entire product selection of thousands 
of items, access our electronic catalog via our 
Toll Free Number: 

1-800-752-3012 

ANSI. VT52, VT100 or VT101 emulation with 8 data bits, 
1 stop bit, and no parity. 



GO OLI for more information. 




Earn your degree en-line 
from the University off Phoenix. 

• You'll join a learning group of 15 to 20 accom- 
plished working adults from all over the country. 

• With a PC compatible and modem, students 
complete assignments and discuss course related 
material in an interactive learning environment. 

• Curricula designed to integrate academic study 
with professional responsibilities. 

• Faculty of leaders in business and industry. 

• Accredited by the North Central Association of 
Colleges and Schools. 

For more information, call 

1-800/888-4935 



W.5 Million businesses 
at Your Fingertips... 

Introducing BiZ*FHe. . . an easy way to find infor- 
mation on over 10.5 million U.S. & Canadian 
business listings, compiled from over 5,000 Yellow 
Page directories. With BlZ*FUe, you can: 

• Find a company by name, anywhere in the 
U.S. or Canada. For example-you need the 
address & phone number for "Byte-Quik 
Modems", but don't know where they're located. 

• Locate types of businesses, such as a few 
"Gift Shops" in Peoria, or a "Compaq Dealer" 
in Santa Fe. 

• Profile a company and find out what they do, 
based on their Yellow Page listings. 

Biz* File makes locating any business in the U.S. or 
Canada a snap! Try the service today-on Compuserve. 

GoM*ftiEl 



Biz«FUe is a Service of American Business Information, Inc. 
571 1 So. 86th Circle • P.O. Box 27347 • Omaha, NE 68127 




GO OLI for more information. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 43 



Reviews Online 
▼ = 



Following are summaries of hardware 
and software reviews available for reading 
this month in Online Today. To read the 
complete reviews, use the GO commands 
listed at the end of each summary. 

For additional CompuServe Magazine/ 
Online Today reviews published during the 
past two years and illustrations of reviewed 
products, refer to the key-word-searchable 
buyer's guides in Libraries 5 and 6 of the 
OLT Forum (GO OLTFORUM). Use Section 
5 of the OLT Forum message board for 
discussion and questions about the reviews 
and related products. 

Hardware 

A Mouse Without the Cord 

Super Mouse (Z-Nix Co. ) for IBM com- 
puters uses infrared signals instead of a 
cord to communicate with the computer. It 
is packaged with a paint program called 
TelePaint. Reviewer Christy Brothers says 
the paint program is limited because of its 
inability to import or export graphics in any 
standard format. The mouse works well, she 
says, except for its tendency to send random 
movement and signals to the computer 
when it is not in use. This problem, she 
concludes, makes the mouse unsuitable for 
most users. GO OLT-5505. 

Software 

Faster Database Manager 

FoxPro 2.0 (Fox Software Inc.) is a faster, 
improved version of the popular FoxPro 
database manager for IBM computers. Re- 
viewer William J. Lynott says the new ver- 
sion runs up to twice as fast as the older 
program and up to 10 times faster than a 
major competitor. The new version also fea- 
tures smaller index files, an interactive 
query tool and new screen builder. Lynott 
concludes that this is an excellent database 
managerfordevelopersandexperienceddata- 
base users. He cautions, however, that be- 
ginners may be intimidated by its many 
advanced features. For more information, 
visit the Fox Software Forum (GO FOX- 
FORUM). GO OLT-5515. 

Create Business Forms 

PerForm Pro (Delriria Technology Inc.), a 
high-end business forms processor for 
Microsoft Windows, lets users create forms 
with a module similar to a desktop publish- 
ing program. A separate module can fill in 
forms from user input or disk-based data 
files. More than 100 pre-designed forms are 
included in the package. Reviewer Franklyn 



Jones says the program is easy to use de- 
spite its sophisticated functions. Its com- 
plete documentation, online help and font 
support make it an excellent choice for any 
office, he says. For more information, visit 
the Windows Third Party Applications B 
Forum (GO WINAPB). GO OLT-5525. 




Integrated Applications for the Mac 

ClarisWorks 1.0 (Claris Corp.) combines 
a word processor, drawing program, spread- 
sheet, database manager and communica- 
tions program into one program for 
Macintosh computers. It is System 7-savvy 
and has a 100,000-word spelling checker 
and 660,000-word thesaurus. Reviewer An- 
thony Watkins says ClarisWorks may be the 
best "works" program available for the 
Macintosh. He points out several limita- 
tions in the program, especially in its com- 
munications module and its inability to im- 
port files from different programs. But, he 
says, it is a combination of applications 
that will appeal to many novice users who 
don't need all the power of advanced, sepa- 
rate programs. For more information, visit 
the Macintosh A Vendor Forum (GO 
MACAVEN). GO OLT-5535. 

Shareware Lost and Found 

dtSearch 1.1 (DT Software Inc.), a 
shareware program for IBM computers, can 
index and find data spread across several 
files on your computer, search without an 
initial index and create multiple indexes 
that it stores in index libraries. It can work 
with text files created by a wide variety of 
word processors and text editors. Reviewer 
Christy Brothers calls this an excellent pro- 
gram for anyone who keeps a lot of text 
information on a hard disk. To download the 
program, visit the IBM Software Applica- 
tions Forum (GO IBMAPP). GO OLT5545. 



Presentation Graphics for Windows 

Persuasion 2.0 (Aldus Corp.), a presen- 
tation graphics program for Microsoft Win- 
dows, features templates and slide masters, 
multiple editing views and automatic gener- 
ation of audience handouts. The program 
can create computer-based slide shows or 
create slides on a laser printer or desktop 
file recorder. Reviewer Harry Green says 
the program is easy to learn for users al- 
ready familiar with Windows, and that, 
with its speed and features, the program 
will pay for itself the first time you use it. 
For more information, visit the Aldus Fo- 
rum (GO ALDUS). GO OLT-5555. 




Icons for the Macintosh 

Tiles (CE Software Inc. ) is a program for 
Macintosh computers that turns repetitive 
tasks into icons selected with the mouse. 
The tasks can be created manually, or the 
program can watch the computer's activities 
and create tiles automatically. Reviewer An- 
thony Watkins says the program's major 
drawback is its slow loading speed every 
time the computer is turned on. Other than 
that, he says, the program is excellent, es- 
pecially for novice computer users. For more 
information, visit the Macintosh A Vendor 
Forum (GO MACAVEN). To read the review, 
GO OLT-5565. 

Shareware Archive Manager 

Stowaway 1.2 (Patri-Soft), a shareware 
program for IBM computers, archives files 
from hard disk onto any DOS-compatible 
medium and keeps information about the 
saved files in a database. The database 
makes Stowaway a true archive manager 
instead of a simple backup and restore 
utility. Reviewer Hardin Brothers found 
Stowaway easy to use and handy for those 



44 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



who need to keep archives of software and 
data files. To download the program, visit 
the IBM Systems/Utilities Forum (GO 
IBMSYS). GO OLT-5575. 

Advanced Time Management 

Ascend (NewQuest Technologies Inc.), a 
professional time-management program 
that runs under Microsoft Windows, con- 
sists of 12 integrated modules that maintain 
a master and daily task list, schedule ap- 
pointments, store addresses and phone 
numbers, and keep a journal. Reviewer 
Franklyn Jones says Ascend is a complete 
organizer that includes a printed manual 
and training tapes to help new users. But, 
he says, busy users, who will benefit most 
from Ascend, ironically will have to put 
aside several hours to learn to use all of the 
program's features. GO OLT-5585. 

Keeping Personal Information 

IstACT! (Contact Software Interna- 
tional) is a simplified version of the popular 
ACT! contact management program for IBM 
computers. It features both fixed and user- 
defined data fields, a pop-up calendar, mul- 
tiple schedules and a report generator. Re- 
viewer William J. Lynott says the program 
is surprisingly complete. Although it lacks 
some sophisticated features of advanced 
programs, he says, it is the best entry-level 
contact management system on the market. 
GO OLT-5595. 

Computerized MBA 

MBAware (ValuSource) is a collection of 
nine programs that can automate business 
financial analyses on IBM computers. Re- 
viewer Harry Green looked at three of the 
programs: Loan Express (reviewed sepa- 
rately last month) helps prepare loan appli- 
cations. Value Express assists with business 
appraisals. Competitive Edge compares a 
company with competing firms. Green says 
these programs would be of most value to 
help train analysts. Knowledgeable ana- 
lysts, he says, will probably prefer a word 
processor and a spreadsheet program, and 
the programs are too confining to satisfy 
most users for long. GO OLT-5605. 

Remote Control 

Carbon Copy Plus (Microcom Inc.) is a 
communications and remote-control pro- 
gram that can operate over a modem and 
phone line or through a local area network. 
It allows an operator at one location to run a 
remote computer while watching the data 
presented on the remote screen. The opera- 
tor also can type messages that will appear 
on the remote screen. The program can be 



used for normal communications and proto- 
col file transfers. Reviewer Franklyn Jones 
says the program is probably the best avail- 
able for remote troubleshooting, but it re- 



quires the cooperation of users at each com- 
puter. He also says it is difficult to use as a 
general-purpose communications program. 
GO OLT-5615. 



m 



4 .; 

> ; - I 
J' \ 



Best 9600/V.32 Value! 




1 he ViVa 9600bps, V.32/V.42bis modem offers 
the best communications value money can buy! 

The Viva 9642e™ modem with V.42bis data com- 
pression and V.42 error correction, ensures reliable data 
transmission (38,400bps Max) under the most adverse 
line conditions. As a Hayes compatible modem, ViVa 
supports all the popular communications software. 

The power and performance of the ViVa 9642e is 
backed by our limited five year warranty! So, get 
connected with the best 9600/V.32 value available! 

Call Now 1-800-854-7600 

Or visit your nearest computer dealer 
to see the complete line of ViVa modems. 

CompvterPeripheralsjnc 

667 Rancho Conejo Blvd. • Newbury Park, CA 91320 

ViVa & Computer Peripherals, Inc. are registered trademarks ^ 



me 

r ■ • 

\r 

T j " 



f ->* 



.38! 



m 

I 1-< 



GO OLI for more information. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 45 



EjwGO BN 

LjpP^ave Up To 80% On 
r Books, Videos And Audio 

Here's what Barnes & Noble, 
America's Largest Book Sale 
catalog offers you: 

• Books: hard-to-find, exclusive 
prints and top quality publisher's 
overstocks. 

• Videos: get bargains in classic 
films, documentaries, children's 
shows, comedy, drama, 
performing arts, favorite television 
shows and a lot more — 

all at big savings! 

• Audio: CDs and cassettes of 

the best of classical music, big band 
favorites, show tunes, soundtracks — 
quality recordings at bargain prices. 

• On-line questions answered 
within 48 hours. 

• We'll ship worldwide. 

• You can receive a free catalog. 

• Plus Interesting & Practical Gifts 



Barnes ft Noble 

Booksellers^-^Since 1873 

GO BN 



GO OLI for more information. 

WHY 
DSI? 



Worldwide 
Delivery 

No 

Membership 
Fee 



Discount Shopping Inc. 

Electronics and Appliances 
800/346-0707 

GO DSI 

GO OLI for more information. 
46 ■ COMPUSERVE MA 



Book Reviews 




Following are summaries of book re- 
views available for reading this month in 
Online Today. To read the complete re- 
views, use the GO commands listed at the 
end of each summary. 

The Law of Electronic 
Commerce— EDI, Fax and E-Mail: 
Technology, Proof, and Liability 

By Benjamin Wright 
Little, Brown and Co., 1991 
432 pages, $95 (hardcover) 

An important book for anyone involved 
with electronic media and must reading for 
attorneys and the business community, this 
text offers cogent analysis and insight into 
the developing and ever-changing field of 
electronic commerce, according to reviewer 
and attorney Sharon Kahn. GO OLT-5210 




Maximizing MS-DOS 5 

By David Solomon, et al. 
New Riders Publishing, 1991 
730 pages, $34.95 (softcover) 



DOS is a complex subject few users fully 
comprehend. If you read carefully and work 
the examples, this book will guide you from 
the ranks of the confused to the expert, 
says reviewer Harry Green. GO OLT-5220 



The PC User's Guide 

By Nick Anis and Craig Menefee 
Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 1991 
725 pages, $29.95 (softcover) 

Users who find the enigmatic C: prompt 
intimidating will receive lots of help from 
this book, where just about everything — 
from which software to use to how to man- 
age a hard disk — is covered. Reviewer Paul 
A. Gilster says it is a worthwhile purchase 
for any novice. GO OLT-5230 



G A Z I N E 



The Lotus Guide to 1-2-3, 
Release 2.3 

By Daniel Gasteiger and Nicholas Delonas 

Brady Books, 1991 

520 pages, $24.95 (softcover) 

Using a folksy writing style, the authors 
have created a book that is packed with 
advanced spreadsheet instruction, yet is 
fun to read and easy to understand. Re- 
viewer William J. Lynott calls it a treasure 
of practical information. GO OLT-5240 




DOS: The New Complete Reference 
(Third Edition) 

By Kris Jamsa 
Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 1991 
1,124 pages, $29.95 (softcover) 



The latest update of this best-selling 
book succinctly explains the complex intri- 
cacies of DOS, including the new DOS 5. 
Reviewer James Moran says the text is 
easy to read and understand. GO OLT-5250 




iGE i 

PageMaker 4: An Easy Desk 
Reference 

By Robin Williams 
Peachpit Press, 1991 
764 pages, $29.95 (softcover) 

This easy-to-read, well-designed book is 
filled with information and humor. Re- 
viewer Anthony Watkins says it is the first 
PageMaker book he would unhesitatingly 
recommend to novice and experienced 
desktop publishers alike. GO OLT-5260 



GO KB Save $ on : 

Nikon, Canon, Pentax, Sony, 
Hasselblad, Mamiya, Kodak, 
Minolta, Olympus, Fuji, ^^sri 
llford, Oriental, at* 
Polaroid ,r-~,"vW^^ : 1 

etc. ^s&fr^m • > ! 




American Institute For Computer Sciences American 

offers B.S. and M.S. in Computer Science. All courses institute 

by correspondence. Increase your earning power. For computer 

more information call 1-800-767-2427 sciences 



CHADWICK UNIVERSITY offers B.S. and 

M.B.A. programs in Business Administration. All rvtkvmnv 

courses by correspondence. Increase your earning LH nl/WlLK 
power. For more information call l-W>-7<7-2423. 



I GO AQ 



SAVE BIG SSS WHEN BUYING YOUR NEW CAR 
OUR REPORTS SHOW YOU DEALER INVOICE VS. 
SUGGESTED RETAIL. 

THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED CUSTOMERS. 



PHONE ORDERS 1-800-992-7404 

FAX SERVICE AVAILABLE 

AUTOQUOT-ir 



Advertiser's 
Directory 



American Business List 


43 


American Institute 


47 


Biz*File 


40 


AutoVantage 


Cover 3 


Autoquote-R 


47 


Barnes & Noble 


46 


Bose Express Music 


9 


Classifieds 


47 


Compact Disc Connection 


47 


Computer Peripherals 


45 


Court Pharmacy 


42 


Discount Shopping 


46 


Hooper International 


25 


IQuest 


28 


Information Access 


21 


K&B Camera 


47 


Money Magazine 


Cover 2 


Official Airline Guides 


35, 37, 39 


PaperChase 


29 


Penny*Wise 


43 


Peterson's 


33 


Quick & Reilly 


5 


Shoppers Advantage 


1 


CB Club 


Cover 4 


Tangbill 


47 


Tapcis 


27 


Traveldata 


47 


University of Phoenix 


43 


ZiffNet 


19, 32, 33, 47 



Shoppers Guide 
▼ 



GO CLASSIFIED 

For Hundreds of 
Listings 





GO 
COINS 

Over 3,000 rare 
coins listed by date, 
denomination and grade! 
Offered by coin dealers across the country. 
GO COINS and browse the list in the 
ARCE.LST file or download ARCE.ZIP. 

THE AMERICAN 
RARE COIN EXCHANGE 

A Division of Tangible Information Systems, Inc. 

(310)652-3508 Fax: (310)652-5249 



Music by 
Modem 



WORLD'S LARGEST ON-LINE 
AUDIO COMPACT DISC CATALOG 

• Discount Prices • Free Shipping for 

• Fast Delivery orders of $100 or more 

Modem: 408/730-9015 8-N-1 
300 1200 2400 BAUD 



COMPACT DISC Voice S Fax 408/733-0801 



CONNECTION 



PC TRAVEL ! 

New, analytical travel planning guide to 33 
major destinations on a HD diskette cost- 
compares star-rated hotels, resorts, and restaurants. 
Price ranks ten national car rental agencies at each 
destination. Detailed coverage of local sightseeing 
and entertainment, plus local weather patterns. Re- 
quires DOS 2.1 or higher and hard disk. Introduc- 
tory price of $29.95 (plus $4.50 shipping) until 
March 31, 1992. Six-month revisions 

TO ORDER, CALL TRAVELDATA 
(805) 683-0301 



THE BEST BUYELRfS GUIDE 




ZiffNet, the on-line information service all about computing, gives you 
everything you need to make the right buying decisions. Like specs for 
every available product on the market. Winners of awards including 
Editor's Choice. Product reviews from dozens of magazines going back 
three years. And forums that let you I 
ask the experts at Ziff magazines for I 
advice. Just call 1-800-666-0330 for ■ ^| JJ 



more information on how to sign up. 
Because when you're on-line, you're 



ng back 

■ 



on to the latest buying information. All ABOUT COMPUTING. ..0H-UNE 

CompuServe and ZiffNet members type GO ZNT:BUYRES0URCE ©1992 Ziff Communications. 



GO OU for more information. 



MARCH 1992 ■ 47 



UPDATE 





Viewer's Digest: 
The Best of GIF 

PRC Inc., a leading database publisher, 
has organized a quarterly print publica- 
tion which allows you to preview thou- 
sands of popular GIF images prior to 
downloading them. Called the The Best 
of GO GRAPHICS, it contains several hun- 
dred pages of digitized pictures found in 
the Graphics Forums on CompuServe. 
GO GRAPHICS and choose Option 1, "In- 
troduction to Graphics," for more infor- 
mation. 



On March 2, many CompuServe menus will change to support CompuServe's flat-rate pricing plan of $7.95 
per month for unlimited use of a group of basic services (Please read the wrap that enfolded this 
issue of CompuServe Magazine for details). Menus will change to clearly identify services included 
in basic services and those not included (extended services). Many menu choices will include a "+" 
symbol signifying that pay-as-you-go pricing begins with the screen that immediately follows. These 
new menus are designed to help members enrolled under the flat-rate pricing plan easily identify 
the two categories of services. Members not enrolled under the flat-rate plan will also see the new 
menus and + symbols, but the change will not affect their pay-as-you-go hourly connect-fee pricing. 
GO CHOICES for more information on flat-rate pricing for basic services. 

CompuServe has simplified its hourly connect charges for members who pay for all usage on a pay-as- 
you-go basis and therefore pay a $2 per month Membership Support Fee. Effective March 1, the 30 
cents-per-hour CompuServe US/Canada network charge is included in hourly connect rates of $6.30 
(300 baud), $12.80 (1200 and 2400 baud) and $22.80 (9600 baud). Consequently, services provided 
'free' under the $2 monthly Membership Support Fee will now be totally free of CompuServe net- 
work charges. Charges for most networks other than CompuServe's will decrease by 30 cents per 
hour. Members using the CompuServe network in the UK pay no network charge in off-peak hours 
and $7.70/hr during peak hours. In Germany, the CompuServe network charges are $7.70/hr peak 
and $2.20/hr off-peak. GO RATES after March 2 to review the simplified rates. 




Announcing the 
Newest Navigator 

Version 3.1 of the CompuServe Navigator 
is now available. The Macintosh commu- 
nications program gives users auto- 
mated access to CompuServe Mail, fo- 
rums and the Quick Quote financial data- 
base. New features include System 7 
balloon help and "event" support, sup- 
port for retrieving menus and articles, 
the ability to retrieve listings of key- 
words from forum libraries and more. For 
information on how to order or upgrade, 
access the connect-free Navigator Infor- 
mation Area. GO NAVIGATOR. 



Sports Forum Fantasy Baseball is accepting new owner applications for team franchises in the 1992 
season. Applications will be accepted through March 29. For details on signup and rules, consult 
files FBBINF.92 and FBB92.RUL in the forum's Library 11, "Fantasy Baseball." GO FANS. 

Use the new Biz*File and let your keyboard do the walking. Biz*File contains the name, address and 
phone number for more than 10 million US and Canadian businesses of all sizes, compiled from 
more than 5,000 Yellow Pages directories. You can look for business by name or phone number, or 
get a list of all local vendors of the product or service you are interested in. Biz*File has a $15/hour 
surcharge. GO BIZFILE. 

Novell has created a new Library Forum exclusively for files to improve efficiency in the Novell A Forum's 
technical support. Members can download the latest public-domain and Novell-suppported patches, 
fixes, drivers and utilities for NetWare. GO NOVLIB. 

NEXT MONTH • Painting on a Digital Canvas: Art 
Supercoilides with the Computer Age • The LAN Rush: Considering 
Connectivity • Principal Membership: Pioneering Online Investment 
Clubs • When in Italy: Verona on Two Kids a Day • Quality Connect 
Time: Parents Commiserate in a Few Fora 



48 ■ COMPUSERVE MAGAZINE 



Is your car 
taking 
you for 
a ride? 



New to the 
Electronic 
Mall! 




Start saving 
now with 
AutoVantage 
OnLine®— 
3 months 
for just $1-* 



Introducing AutoVantage OnLine — 

It's a membership-based service created to save 
you hundreds of dollars a year in auto maintenance and 
repairs — and even thousands of dollars when you purchase 
a new car. Here are some of the many money-saving benefits it includes: 

• Discounts and Savings on Service or Repairs at thousands of participating dealers and service 
centers, including Goodyear* 1 , Firestone®, AAMCO®, Maaco®, and KmartsM — all listed in the computerized 
AutoVantage OnLine Service Center Locator. 

• Free New Car Summaries and Used Car Valuations, which can be ordered online, giving you all the 
data you need for buying or selling at the best available price, including dealer invoice prices, estimated wholesale 
retail values, resale projections and operating expenses, performance reports, recall history — and more. 

• Savings From $50 to $5,000 Off New Car List Prices on all domestic models and most foreign makes 
— at participating New Car Dealers, nationwide.** 

Put yourself in the driver's seat and see how much money you can save. As a CompuServe subscriber, you can "test 
drive" AutoVantage OnLine for three months for just $1 . Just sign on to CompuServe — Enter GO ATV or find 
AutoVantage OnLine on the Electronic Mall Menu. Or, call toll free 1 -800-843-7777. 



Join the biggest — and the best. 



* Full terms and conditions can be read online. 

Normal connect-time fees will be billed by CompuServe. 
** Actual savings may vary depending upon the make and model you choose, and other factors. 



CompuServe' 

AutoVanta ge 
Emm 



© 1991 , CUC International Inc. 



GO OLI for more information. 



CSOAA1 



Happy Talk. 
Straight Talk. 
Small Talk. 
Sweet Talk. 




Easy Talk... 



GO CB for free instructions 

Select Band A Channel 2 
(Newcomers Channel) 

Have Fun! 

CompuServe 



Electronic Mail: 



CompuServe Mail (Send up to the equivalent of about 
60 three-page messages per month)* 



Travel: 



EAASY SABRE* & Travelshopper 5 "— Airline, hotel and rental 
car information and reservations, plus other travel 
information 

Department Of State Advisories 

Visa Advisors 



Membership Support Services: 



MAC CIM Support Forum 
DOS CIM Support Forum 
Navigator Support Forum 
Practice Forum 



Directory of Members 



Ask Customer Service 



*CompuServe Mail is connect-time free. (InterNet is not free to read.) At the beginning of each 
month, you get an electronic mail allowance of $9, which entitles you to send up to the equivalent of 60 
messages of 7,500 characters each (7,500 characters are about three typed double-spaced pages). 
Additional messages during the month are priced at only 15 cents for the first 7,500 characters and 
5 cents for each additional 2,500 characters. (Sending the same message to two recipients counts as two 
messages, three recipients as three messages, and so on.) Your message allowance expires at the end of 
each billing month. 

With Option #2, all of these services are free of connect-time charges. Plus, there are no 
communications surcharges, as long as you're using CompuServes network in the U.S. and Canada. 
(If you're using supplemental networks such as TYMNET/Sprintnet or 1NFONET, surcharges still apply.) 

Needless to say, all of our services, whether they're listed here or not, will still be available. If one of 
your favorites isn't on the basic list, it will still be part of our extended or premium services, which are 
subject to the same style of payment you're using today. 

And if you're an Executive Service Option member, there's more good news: the $7.95 applies to your 
monthly minimum. So the Executive Service Option is an even greater value. 

With this billing option, all the services are the same. The way you use them is the same. The only 
difference is that you can take advantage of the basic services as often as you like for just one monthly 



We'll be offering our new member option as of March 1. To make it easier for you, a "+" will mark 
extended services, a "$" will mark premium (surcharged) services, and an "E" will mark Executive 
Service Option services on the menus starting March 1. 

If you wish to stay with your current billing service (Option #1), you need do nothing. To sign up for 
Option #2, or for more information, just type GO NEWBASIC. The choice is yours. 



payment. 





mnr J 
3 Tar 
o:i>rn in 
zi<omx 

) — i — 1 1 — i ~o 
mTUJ-I 

23> m 

~nmi> 

orzu 

3- o 

i> on 

-) -\7X 
M-iI3> 
u<|f|2 



o 
o 
3 

E 

CO 

CO 



0) 

to 

0) 
N 

5' 
P 

TJ 
O 
03 

s 

hJ 

O 



o 
o 
c 

C 



O 
X 
u 

CO 
M 



CompuServe 

The information service you won't outgrow. 



3 



* 

? * 
m wx 

< fe!* 

a* 

W 

-j a 

iQ M 

o 

Q\ i-i 

< -1 
cn a^. 

(V) 

-vl iQ 



OT3COT 

o co • 
3 ~ 



co Si- 
s' ■ 

(Q 
CD 



