Fismi Year 1999 




Montana State Library [MSL] 



July 1 , 1 998 - June 30, 1 999 



Annual Report 



Greeting from the State Librarian 



Inside this Report: 



On behalf of the State Library staff, I am please to in- 
troduce this annual report to the citizens of Montana. 
We work hard to provide libraries, state employees, 
and others with sound advice about quality library 
service and information to meet their needs. We 
strive to exceed your expectations and pledge to con- 
tinue to improve our services in the next year. 

Of course, this report cannot contain everything that 
the agency accomplished this year. We highlighted 
the items that we think are of most interest to you. If 
you would like to discuss any aspect of the report, 
please call me at 406-444-3 1 1 5. 

Thank you for letting us serve you. 



Montana State Librarian 




A few W5L staff members; Barbora Pepper Rotness. Dave Highness, Bob 
Cooper, Dixie Corlson, Dione Sunderson. Cheryl Chri stop lie''. Pom Smith, 
Potcharin Williams, Don Cornish and John Hinshow. 



Greetings from 2 
MSL Commission Chair IWike Schuiz 

STATEWIDE UBRARY RESOURCES [SLRJ 3 

Ubraryand InformatJon 3 
Services Department [USD] 

IVlontana Talking Book Library [MTBL] 4 

Ubrary Development Department [LDD] 5 

NATURAL RESOURCE 6 
INI^ORMATION SYSTEM [NRIS] 

Natural Heritage Program [NHP] 6 

Geographic [GIS] and 7 
Water Information System [WIS] 

Acronyms. Etc. 8 

MSL Organizational Chart i 



Special points of interest: 

• A statewide database that provides more 
than l,700full text periodicals, 1 10,000 com- 
pany profiles, and other online reference ma- 
terial was made available to all Montana citi- 
zens. 

• NRIS unveiled its enhanced web-based infor- 
mation services. 

• The Montana Library Nerworl< was estab- 
lished, 

• LSTA provided 23 small public libraries with 
funds to purchase Internet access computers, 

• LDD negotiated discounts for subscriptions 
to electronic resources. 

• MTBL celebrated its 30th Anniversary. 



Greeting from MSL Commission Chair Mike Sclnuiz 



What a year for Montana libraries! 
The state's libraries and library us- 
ers have benefited handsomely in 
so many ways thanks to the ef- 
forts of the Montana Stale Library. 
The entrepreneurial spirit and the 
dedicated staff of MSL have truly 
shrunic "the digital divide" in 
many ways this year. It has been a 
pleasure and privilege for all the 
commission members to worl< so 
closely with the fine folks at the 
MSL who give so generously of 
their rich ideas, boundless opti- 
mism, and giving spirit. I would 
like to outline a few of the many 
and varied accomplished of the 
state library in Fiscal Year 1 999. 

The 1 999 legislature funded the 
statewide periodical database 
that brought eight wonderful da- 
tabases that benefit every citizen 
in the state. Not only that, the da- 
tabase licensing agreement al- 
lovi/s library's to extend searching 
privileges to users' home com- 
putes. This is truly a leap forward 
in our quality of service and ac- 
cess to information for all Mon- 
tana's citizens. 

These databases are part of the 
vision of the Montana Library Net- 
work which is fast becoming a 
reality- This exciting information 
will ensure the delivery of quality 
networked library materials and 
services to all Montanans. 

The legislature also passed a 
measure to allow all types of li- 
braries to join federations. We are 
looking forward to the productive 
interactions that will take place at 
these strengthened federations. 
We have been most excited by 
the many federations that have 
included libraries of all types be- 
fore this legislation and know that 



Montana's library users will be big 
winners with this consolidation. 

The Library and Information Service 
Department at MSL is in the process 
of reorganizing their work flow and 
resources to more effectively handle 
increase demand by their patrons. 
More over, they are unveiling new 
services and strategics to bring re- 
sources to the desktop of state gov- 
ernment. 

The Montana Talking Book Library 
celebrated 30 years of quality service 
to its patrons. I had the privilege of 
presenting an award at this year's 
volunteer appreciation luncheon. It 
was a truly uplifting time seeing all 
that program hard working staff and 
volunteers receive recognition for 
their fine work. 

The Natural Resource Inforrnation 
System Department unveiled Its en- 
hance web-based Information serv- 
ices so that more users can reach its 



excellent suite of resources. NRIS, in- 
cluding the Heritage Program, is on 
the forefront of providing Interactive, 
accurate, and timely data through the 
World Wide Web. 

The Library Development Team con- 
tinue to traverse the state to provide 
face-to-face assistance to libraries. 
They are supported in their efforts by 
all MSL staff and offer very successful 
training like the learning expo that 
occurred in Lewistown. 

I could go on and on with wonderful 
examples of growth and develop- 
ment, but I had better stop. Karen and 
her fine staff across the state are do- 
ing a fantastic job. The Commission is 
excited about the possibilities we will 
be exploring in the FY 2000-Year Re- 
port. 



MSL Commission Chair 




MSL Commissioners-. David Johnson, Al Rondall, Mory boggett, Dorothy Lojrd, 
Rosemary Sorvey, Mike Schuiz, and Cheri Bergeron. 



Statemrlde Library Resources 



Library and Information Services Department [LISD] 



In Fiscal Year 1 999, USD began 
to re-examine its activities in 
light of its role as the principal 
library for state government. 




fessional develop- 
ment materials avail- 
able from the State 
Library. Staff re- 
sponded to 4,039 
contacts at the front 
desk, loaned 4,825 
items from our collec- 
tion to patrons and 
libraries, and secured 
2,876 items from 
other libraries for use 
by state employees. 




The Commission adopted more 
appropriate and descriptive poli- 
cies for information services and 
collection development as MSL 
defined its primary patron popu- 
lations and collection resource 
responsibilities. Staff developed 
and tested a 
model tool for 
assessing state 
agency informa- 
tion needs and 
evaluating the 
pertinence of 
library resources. 
Staff also cre- 
ated automated 
forms to gather 

data to analyze the use of infor- 
mation desk sen/ices. 

LISD reference staff continues 
serving Montana's library com- 
munity as backup for their refer- 
ence questions. Biweekly e-mail 
postings alerted librarians to no- 
table reference works and pro- 



AAarjorie Smith helps o patron ot the Information Desk. 



Staff provided a 
workshop for non- 
profit associations, librarians, 
and local state government em- 
ployees on the Foundation Cen- 
ter CD-ROM and Internet re- 
sources for grant seekers. 



"Staff developed and tested 
a model tool for assessing 
state agency information 
needs and evaluating the 
pertinence of libriny 
resources." . 



New computers were 
installed for use by 
walk-in patrons to ac- 
cess the Internet, CD- 
ROM, and online infor- 
mation resources. The 
library placed addi- 
tional signs to identify 
library services more 
clearly. 

Additions to the collection in- 
cluded 147 reference resources 
and 1 77 books, 6.060 Federal 
documents and 850 state publi- 
cations. A total of 4,709 State 
publications were distributed to 
Montana depository libraries. 
The library upgraded worksta- 



tion hardware and trained staff to 
use the state-standard Windows 
95 and Microsoft Office Suite soft- 
ware. 

Fiscal year 1 999 saw the begin- 
ning of a thorough reexamina- 
tion of client needs and a strate- 
gic planning process to bring 
LISD services fully into line with 
the opportunities of the Informa- 
tion Age. 




"Xhnual Report 



Montana Talking Book Library [MTBL] 




r TatRif^fiook Library^ 
employs six employees and utilizes ,! 
over TOO volunteers [equal to 6 FTE 
employees] to circulate, inspect and 
^maintain over 240,000 book copies, 
yJ.OOO machines ..." 



National Library Service Metwork Division Chief, Carolyn Sung, pce- 
sented the Telephone Pioneer volunteers with an award for thirty- 
five years of outstanding service. The awar-ded was accepted by Tom 
Basinger. 



In 1 998, MTBL celebrated its 30 Anniversary of service to Montana citi- 
zens in the Capitol Rotunda. National Library Service Netvi/ork Division 
CInief. Carolyn Sung, presented the Teleplnone Pioneer volunteers with 
an award for thirty-five years of outstanding patron service. TBL gave 
special recognition to summer youth volunteers for their exceptional 
service to patrons. 

MTBL patrons numbered 2,624. Also, 1 22 schools, libraries, hospitals, 
nursing homes, convalescent centers, and independent care facilities 
were served. Patrons received over 141,517 talking books, descriptive 
videos, and large print books. TBL provided Braille materials to 58 pa- 
trons. 





Front: Susie Merrin, Director of 
MTBL Recording Program, Richard 
Smith, Manager, Prison Recording 
Team, Back: Mike Schuiz, MSL 
Commission Chair, Dave Beotty, Prison 
Librarian 



Summer youth volunteers were given speciol 
recognition for their exceptional service to 
potrons. 



Twenty-one volunteer teams 
narrated, monitored, and re- 
viewed regional books for its 
local collection through the 

Montana Cassette Book Recording Program. Nineteen 
volunteer teams operated in the Helena recording stu- 
dio and two teams worked at the State Prison in Deer 
Lodge. 

The Montana Talking Book Library employs six em- 
ployees and utilizes over 1 00 volunteers [equal to six 
FTE employees) to circulate, inspect and maintain 
over 240,000 bool( copies, 4,000 machines, and over 
730 machine accessories for Montana patrons. 



'Julfmn 998'-^SWTOff999 




Library Development Department 




The Montana Library 
Network [MLN) is a project 
of the Montana State Library' 
and the inspiration of the 
MSL Networl<ing Task Forte. 
Many states have or are 
building statewide library 
networks for better delivery 
of library materials and 
services. MLN is working as a 
partner with Montana 
libraries, nearby states, 
Canadian provinces and 
national library organizations 
to ensure the delivery of 
quality networI<ed library 
materials and services to all 
Montanans. Bruce Newell 
was hired as MLN director in 
May, 1999. 




Fall workshops were well attended. 

LDD's primary accomplishment was the statewide 
promotion of the use of electronic resources by 
librarians in Montana. LDD achieved this through 
three year-long projects. 

Using federal grant funds (LSTA), MSL provided 
funds to purchase public Internet access comput- 
ers for 23 small public libraries that otherwise 
could not have provided such access, MSL also 
provided funding to six larger public libraries to 
upgrade from dial-up modem access to a direct 
connection to the Internet. 

Discounts for statewide subscriptions to electronic resources were negotiated, marketed, and managed for all 
types of libraries. These resources include the OCLC/WLN LaserCai* regional database and the Gale Research 

InfoTrac* electronic magazine data- 
._ . ._ . _... base. 



ontana^ 
Library 
Network 



LIBRARIANS TRAINED INUSE OF ELECTRONIC 
RESOURCES DURING FISCAL YEAR 1999 



'Other Includes electronic 
resources sucti as EbscoHosI, 

LaserCai, Electric Library, 
Montana Library fJetworli, etc. 




This department provided formal train- 
ing to staff from all types of libraries in 
the use of electronic resources. Work- 
shops were offered on the use of the 
Internet, the Interlibrary loan sharing 
protocol. EbscoHost*. LaserCat", and 
InfoTrac' LDD provided formal train- 
ing to public librarians and trustees on 
planning and funding of electronic re- 
sources, including E-Rate discounts. 
LDD continued to provide information 
on number of library-related topics to 
librarians from all types of libraries 
through mailings, telephone consulta- 
tions, and site visits, 

*See "Acronyms Etc," on last page of report 



Natural Resource Information System [NRIS] 

Natural Heritage Program 




Tympanuchus phosiancllus columbionus 

Columbian Shorp- tailed Srouse 

(Phosianidae) 



The Heritage Program expanded its databases 
by 20% during 1 999, snd updated another 20% 
of the database records. Much of this new infor- 
mation was gathered by Heritage biologists, 
who conducted over 30 biological inventories of 
significant species and communities, focusing on 
such diverse areas as Sheridan and Powder River 
Counties, the Judith Mountains, Flathead and 
Yellowstone basins. Centennial Valley, and Big 
Horn Canyon. Partnerships with federal and 
state agencies, and private organizations made 
these studies possible. 



"Staff handled about 150 
requests per month...an 
additional 975 user 
requests per month 
through its website. " 



Last spring. Heritage 
Ecologists completed ti^e 
state's first systematic in- 
ventory of Ecologically 
Significant Wetlands, and 
produced a report that 
identifies and documents 
60 high quality wetlands 
in three drainages of the 
Flathead River watershed. More than 1 50 copies 
of the report (also posted on the Heritage web- 
site), have already been requested. 

Data requests also saw a steady increase this 
year, topping 1 00 for the first time in three differ- 
ent months. In addition to these mediated re- 



quests, the website serviced 975 user queries per 
month. This is a significant increase from last year 
and may reflect the new information and search 
tools that are now available over the web. 

The highlight of our website's growth was the new 
Rare Plant Field Guide, an on-line, searchable ency- 
clopedia of 322 Montana plants species that in- 
cludes detailed descriptions, color photos, illustra- 
tions, and distribution maps. This on-line resource 
represents the 
first of its type 
in the nation, 
and tooI<over 
three years to 

develop. New "Species of Special Concern" lists 
were also updated and are now available on the 
Heritage Website. 

The Heritage Program completed a four-year strate- 
gic plan with input from more than 20 diverse part- 
ner and client groups. This plan identifies ambitious 
goals and strategies aimed at delivering more and 
better information on Montana's sensitive and sig- 
nificant biological features to all those who need it. 



"Heritage Program database - 
irKreased by 20% during the year.. 




itgosens lackschewltzii 

Pink Agoseris (Asteraceoe) 

Photo by Chormaine Refsdal Delmatier 



Geographic and Water Information Systems [GIS and WIS] 



NRIS staff provided 2,603 databases, 
printouts, reports, maps, and referrals 
in response to user requests. Users 
accessed NRIS Internet pages an av- 
erage of 15,270 times per month, 
representing a large increase over 
last year. Tfiis increase lil<ely resulted 
from the wide variety of new infor- 
mation, d?ta, and data products such 
as maps provided on the web site. 

Through a cooperative project NRIS 
received statewide coverage of digi- 
tal versions of the USGS 7,5 topo- 
graphic maps. The maps, called Digi- 
tal Raster Graphic (DRG) maps are 
useful for a variety of GIS projects. 
NRIS increased access to the DRGs by 
putting them on the web site. 

NRIS started to update and enhance 
the natural resource data clearing- 
house. Through funding support 

from Fish Wiid- 
-NRIS staff provided life and Parks 
2,604 databases, jpyypj gp^j t^g 

printouts, reports. Department of 
maps and referrals," Environmental 

Quality [DEQ], 
WRI5 purchased a new web data 
server computer to increase data 
storage capacity and speed of access. 
NRIS also received a donation of new 
database software called Spatial Da- 
tabase Engine (SDE] from ESRI, a GIS 
software company. Staff use SDE to 
manage and serve all clearinghouse 
data, SDE provides much more effi- 
cient search and retrieval perform- 
ance than the previous software, 

NRIS and Heritage staff participated 
in and provided presentations to a 
variety of coordination bodies includ- 
ing: Montana GIS Technical Working 
Group (TWGJ. Montana Geographic 
Information Council (MGIC), Water- 
shed Coordination Council, Wetlands 
Coordination Council. Groundwater 



Many maps reflecting a great variety of data sets are available online. 











:<,:..:. I. 



•Ji^i. • I ^1 ' _ ■'' ■ — ' 



Assessment Steering Committee, and 
Environmental Quality Council, 

NRIS. working with DEO and the 
Montana Watercourse has developed 
a web-based data entry application 
for volunteer water monitoring 
groups. Once registered in the Moni- 
toring Program, volunteers can use a 
standard web browser to enter data, 
create graphs, display stream profile 
data, and share data with other vol- 
unteers across Montana, 

Training and workshops represent a 
significant part of the NRIS and Heri- 
tage workload. State agencies partici- 
pated in a variety of general presen- 
tations and more focused two-day 
workshops on how to use desktop 
GIS software and the web pages. 
NRIS conducted a half dozen work- 
shops on ArcView GIS for DEQ, De- 
partment of FWP, and the Depart- 
ment of Natural Resources and Con- 
servation (DNRC). These workshops 
improve the agencies ability to use 
information to support decisions and 
activities like permit processing. 

The success experienced with the in- 
teractive GIS applications launched in 
the last biennium have inspired NRIS 



and Heritage to plan for the next 
generation of weti-based patron 
tools. Through a variety of coopera- 
tive efforts, NRIS built several new 
interactive map applications that pro- 
vide access to data that have previ- 
ously been unavailable to the public. 
Wetlands inventory, Underground 
Storage Tank (UST), and Volunteer 
Water Monitoring data are all served 
by a standardized application that 
pEftrons can access using typical web 
browsers like Netscape and Microsoft 
Internet Explorer. The Montana Riv- 
ers Information System (MRI5), an im- 
portant fisheries database, will be 
served over 

the web "Web pages... Increase access to 

early next natural resource rnformdlron and 
Vear Web- provide links to Montana data 
based ac- housed in national data systems,' 

cess to 

these databases represent a major 
accomplishment for NRIS and a new 
valuable service to patrons. 

Web pages for GIS, WIS, and Heritage 
have been updated and refined to 
increase access to natural resource 
information and provide links to 
Montana data housed in national 
data systems. 




Acronyms Etc. 



ArcView- Easiest to use database and mapping program 
for GIS 

DEQ; Department of Environmental Quality 

DNRC: Department of Natural Resources and Conservation 

DBS: Digital Raster Graphic 

EbscoHost: Indexes and abstracts more then 3,000 scholarly 
journals. Provides full text for more than 550 journals. 

ESRI; Environmental Systems Research Institute 

FTE: Full Time Employee 

FWP; Fish Wildlife and Parks 

SIS: Geographic Information System 

InfoTrac; A full text index of over 1700 full text magazine, 
110,000 company profiles, ond other online reference ma- 
terials 

LaserCat: Provides access to 4.5 million bibliographic records 
with local call numbers and holdings for more than 500 
libraries. 



LOD; Librory Development Deportment 

USD: Library and Informotion Services Department 

LSTA: Library Service Technology Act 

MGIC: Montana Geographic Information Council 

MLN; Montana Library Network 

WfUS: Montana River Information System 

MTBL; Montana Talking Book Library 

NHP: Natural Heritage Program 

NftIS: Natural Resource Information System 

OCLC: Online Computer Library Center 

SDE: Spatial Database Engine 

TWfi: Technical Working Group 

USGS; United States Geographic Service 

UST; Underground Storage Tank 

WIS: Water Information System 



Mcntana §tate Library Craanizaticnal Chart 



MOMTANA STATE LIBRARY 

1515 EAST 6th AVENUE 

PO BOX 201800 

HELENA MT 59620-1800 

Phone; 406-444-3 1 1 5 

Fax:406-444-5612 

Email: msJ@siate,mt.us 

Web Page: http://msl.state.mt.us 



Governor 



Commission 



State Librarian 



Library Advisory Council 



SLR 



NRIS Advisory Council. 



Administration 



NRIS 



USD 



LDD 



MTBL 



WIS 



GIS 



NHP 



