I 


I 

I 

I 

I 

I 
| 

I 

I 
I 
I 

m 

I 
I 

ffi 

I 


hnn  1j 


Environment 
Environnement 


Ontario 


Copyright  Provisions  and  Restrictions  on  Copying: 

This  Ontario  Ministry  of  the  Environment  work  is  protected  by  Crown  copyright 
(unless  otherwise  indicated),  which  is  held  by  the  Queen's  Printer  for  Ontario.  It 
may  be  reproduced  for  non-commercial  purposes  if  credit  is  given  and  Crown 
copyright  is  acknowledged. 

It  may  not  be  reproduced,  in  all  or  in  part,  for  any  commercial  purpose  except 
under  a  licence  from  the  Queen's  Printer  for  Ontario. 

For  information  on  reproducing  Government  of  Ontario  works,  please  contact 
ServiceOntario  Publications  at  copyright(g)ontario.ca 


ISBN  0-7729-7774-7 


< 


DOSE  RESPONSE  FOR  SELECTED  ENVIRONMENTAL 
AIR  POLLUTANTS: 


A  STUDY  ON  RUNNERS 


RAC  Report  #  219G 


Report  prepared  by: 

F.  Silverman,  R.B.  Urch,  P.  Corey  and  R.J.  Shephard 
Gage  Research  Institute,  Department  of  Medicine 
University  of  Toronto 

Report  prepared  for: 

Research  and  Technology  Branch 

Ontario  Ministry  of  the  Environment 


NOVEMBER  1991 


PHItrtE D  ON 

Bf CTCIED  WEfl 

IMPniME  SUA 

du  PAPim  Hfcvcii 

Cette  publication  technique  n'est  disponible  qu'en  anglais. 
Copyright:   Queen's  printer  for  Ontario,  1991 
This  publication  may  be  reproduced  for  non-commercial  purposes 
with  appropriate  attribution. 


PIBS  1296 


_ 


3       SEP  1  0  1996 


> 


>@?CEW62 


Dose  Response  for  Selected  Environmental 
Air  Pollutants:  A  Study  on  Runners 

F.  Silverman,  R.B,  Urch  ,  P.  Corey   &  R.  J.  Shephard 
Gage  Research  Institute,  Dept .  of  Medicine,  University  of  Toronto 

Ontario  Ministry  of  the  Environment,  Project  #  219RR 
Project  Liason  Officer,  Dr.  Walter  Chan 

Final  Report 

ABSTRACT 

Exercise  increases  respiratory  minute  ventilation,  while 
altering  mode  of  breathing  {mouth  vs.  nose).  It  therefore  can 
increase  the  dose  of  inhaled  pollutants.  Thus  the  risk 
associated  with  air  pollution  may  be  increased  in  people  who 
exercise  outdoors,  particularly  in  urban  environments.  This  study 
examined  the  effects  of  air  pollution  on  runners  during  outdoor 
training  runs  in  downtown  Toronto  from  1986-1988. 

Subjects  were  selected  from  the  Longboat  Roadrunners  Club,  a 
local  competitive  group,  which  carries  out  weekly  training  runs  of 
6-10  miles  (10-16  km)  in  downtown  Toronto  and  along  the  Lakeshore 
transportation  corridor  during  rush  hour.  Pulmonary  function  and 
an  oxygen  rebreathing  estimate  of  blood  carboxyhaemoglobin  level 
(COHb*)  were  obtained  before  and  after  75  training  runs  involving 
70  athletes.  Subjective  reports  of  symptoms  and  an  estimate  of 
personal  exposure  to  air  pollution  over  the  run  were  assessed. 
Local  pollutant  measurements  including  carbon  monoxide  {CO), 
nitrogen  dioxide  (N02),  sulphur  dioxide  and  respirable  suspended 
particulate  matter,  along  with  dry  bulb  temperature  and  relative 
humidity  were  made  using  portable  multipollutant  samplers  carried 
on  bicycles  that  accompanied  the  runners,  thus  giving  an  estimate 
of  personal  exposure.  Exposure  data  were  supplemented  by  data 
collected  by  the  Ontario  Ministry  of  the  Environment  (MOE)  at  two 
of  their  nearby  fixed-site  monitoring  stations. 

Symptoms  were  related  to  temperature,  relative  humidity  and 
local  concentrations  of  several  of  the  pollutants.  The  runner's 
subjective  assessment  of  exposure  was  found  to  be  related  jointly 
to  C0Hb%,  N02  and  temperature.  In  turn,  C0Hb%  was  found  to  be 
related  to  both  CO  and  N02  ,  thereby  establishing  a  reasonable 
causal  link  between  exposure  to  an  exhaust-related  pollutant 
(indicated  by  CO),  biological  dose  (C0Hb%)  and  the  effect  upon  air 
pollution  ratings.  Relationships  of  air  pollutant  concentrations 
to  pulmonary  function  were  not  as  strong  as  to  subjective 
estimates  of  pollution  and  to  symptom  ratings.  The  relationship 
of  the  subjective  assessment  of  pollution  exposure  to  CO  and  N09 
concentrations  was  stronger  when  the  concentrations  were  measured 
with  the  portable  multipollutant  samplers,  than  when  measured  at  a 
nearby  MOE  fixed-site  monitoring  station,  emphasizing  the 
importance  of  assessing  local  pollutant  exposure. 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT  AND  DISCLAIMER 


This  report  was  prepared  for  the  Ontario  Ministry  of  the 
Environment.  The  views  and  ideas  expressed  in  this  report 
are  those  of  the  author  and  do  not  necessarily  reflect 
the  views  and  policies  of  the  Ministry  of  the 
Environment,  nor  does  mention  of  trade  names  or 
commercial  products  constitute  endorsement  or 
recommendation  for  use.  The  Ministry,  however, 
encourages  the  distribution  of  information  and  strongly 
supports  technology  transfer  and  diffusion. 

Any  person  who  wishes  to  republish  part  or  all  of  this 
report  should  apply  for  permission  to  do  so  to  the 
Research  and  Technology  Branch,  Ontario  Ministry  of  the 
Environment,  135  St.  Clair  Avenue  West,  Toronto,  Ontario, 
M4V  1P5,  Canada. 


Copyright:   Queen's  Printer  for  Ontario 

This  publication  may  be  reproduced  for 
non-commercial  purposes  with  appropriate 
attribution. 


INTRODUCTION 

The  cardio-respiratory  benefits  of  exercise  have  been 
well  documented.  However,  there  has  been  less  attention 
directed  towards  the  risk  potential  for  adverse  health 
effects  of  inhaled  pollutants  while  exercising  outdoors, 
particularly  in  urban  environments. 

Major  pollutant  sources  in  urban  areas  include  both 
industry  and  vehicular  exhaust,  producing  primary  pollutants 
(e.g.  sulphur  dioxide,  carbon  monoxide,  nitric  oxide  and 
particulates)  and  secondary  pollutants  resulting  from 
reactions  of  primary  pollutants,  ultraviolet  light  and  other 
ambient  chemical  compounds  (e.g.  ozone,  nitrogen  dioxide, 
peroxyacetyl  nitrate  and  aldehydes). 

Although  pollutant  concentration  is  of  primary  concern 
when  examining  the  health  effects  of  exercising  outdoors, 
other  factors  may  exacerbate  the  response.  The  respiratory 
minute  ventilation  is  proportional  to  the  intensity  of 
exercise  or  work  rate  (below  ventilatory  threshold),  thus  at 
higher  work  rates  the  pollutant  dose  (pollutant  concentration 
x  respiratory  minute  ventilation)  is  increased  over  the 
resting  condition.  When  estimating  pollutant  dose,  a  third 
factor  must  also  be  considered,  that  is,  exercise  duration. 
Futhermore,  at  respiratory  ventilations  above  35  L/min, 
people  tend  to  breathe  oronasally,  thus  partially  bypassing 
the  normal  filtration  mechanism  of  the  nose.   Other  factors 


which  can  influence  the  response  include  environmental 
factors  such  as  temperature  and  humidity,  and  physiological 
factors  such  as  age  (children,  adults,  elderly),  fitness 
level  (social  exerciser  vs  competitive  athlete),  and  the 
presence  of  underlying  disease,  particularly  respiratory 
disease,    as    well    as    tobacco    smoking. 

Although  many  of  the  health  effects  produced  by  ambient 
levels  of  pollutants  are  relatively  small,  they  may  be  of 
serious  consequence  to  the  performance  of  the  elite 
competitive  athlete,  whose  performance  is  timed  to  the 
millisecond.  However,  one  must  not  overlook  the  recreational 
exercisers,  in  whom  potential  high  risk  groups  include  the 
elderly,  children  and  those  with  underlying  cardio- 
respiratory disease.  Therefore,  in  assessing  the  effects  of 
air  pollutants  on  exercising  individuals,  consideration  must 
be  given  to  1)  the  ambient  air  conditions  (type  and 
concentration  of  pollutants),  2)  the  intensity  and  duration 
of  exercise  being  undertaken,  3)  environmental  factors,  and 
4)  the  age,  level  of  fitness  and  presence  of  any  underlying 
disease  of  the  person  exercising.  However,  air  pollution 
mixtures  are  very  complex,  varying  in  both  constituents  and 
levels  at  any  given  time.  Many  have  not  to  date  been 
demonstrated  to  have  significant  effects  on  the  exercising 
individual,  or  have  not  been  systematically  examined  with 
respect    to    their    impact. 

The     impact     of    vehicle-related     pollutants    upon    human 


health  and  performance  has  been  the  subject  of  several  major 
reviews  (1-4).  The  problem  is  particularly  acute  for  the 
city  runner,  because  a  high  ventilation  rate  is  often 
combined  with  close  exposure  to  traffic;  one  recent  U.S. 
study  showed,  for  example,  a  threefold  rise  of  blood 
carboxyhaemoglobin  levels  (from  about  1.5*  to  4.5%)  as  a 
consequence  of  running  for  only  half  an  hour  in  rush-hour 
traffic  (5).  While  such  high  levels  of  carboxyhaemoglobin 
are  tolerated  by  heavy  smokers,  they  probably  play  a  major 
role  in  the  burden  of  increased  cardiovascular  disease 
experienced  by  the  smoker.  Myocardial  damage  from  acute  and 
chronic  exposure  to  moderate  levels  of  carbon  monoxide  has 
been  demonstrated  in  rabbits  (6,7),  while  firefighters, 
automobile  tunnel  workers  and  vehicle  inspectors  all  have  an 
increased  cardiovascular  mortality  and  morbidity  relative  to 
controls  (8-10).  Furthermore,  the  duration  of  exercise 
needed  to  precipitate  angina  is  shortened  by  carbon  monoxide 
exposure    ( 11 ) . 

Studies  by  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency 
(12)  and  locally  in  Toronto  (13)  have  further  shown  that 
ambient  CO  levels  in  cities  are  highest  on  freeways 
surrounded  by  tall  buildings  where  the  traffic  density  is 
high   and    speeds    are    low. 

There  has  been  an  increase  in  the  number  of  joggers  and 
people  competing  in  races  and  "fun  runs"  in  urban  areas, 
specifically    Toronto.         This    may    pose    a    health    risk     to     the 


joggers,  due  to  pollutant  exposure.  Although  the  pollutant 
levels  in  Toronto  are  relatively  low,  the  "jogger"  or 
"runner"  is  breathing  at  a  high  ventilation  and  thus  is 
exposed  to  a  much  greater  dose  of  pollutant  than  when  at  rest 
(14,  15,  16).  Also,  the  jogger  may  experience  "pockets"  or 
high  areas  of  pollution  along  his/her  jogging  route.  The 
consequences  of  this  pollutant  exposure  may  result  in  an 
impairment  of  cardiorespiratory  function  (17,18)  and  a 
decrease  in  performance.  However,  problems  exist  in  the 
measurement  of  personal  pollutant  exposure,  specifically  in 
joggers  who  may  traverse  a  large  area.  Any  uni-site  and/or 
remote  (e.g.  central  station)  method  of  measuring  the 
pollutant  exposure  may  not  be  representative  of  the  personal 
exposure  level  (19-21).  A  multi-site  method  of  measuring 
pollutant  levels  would  better  approximate  the  personal 
exposure  level.  The  best  method  would  be  a  personal  monitor, 
carried  by  the  subject,  or  in  close  proximity  to  the  subject, 
although  size  constraints  limit  the  number  of  different 
pollutants  that  can  be  measured  by  one  monitor  while  still 
remaining  portable. 

While  much  can  be  learnt  about  the  toxicity  of 
environmental  contaminants  from  animal  experimentation,  there 
are  substantial  problems  in  transferring  such  data  directly 
to  human  populations.  Logic  might  thus  suggest  the 
experimental  exposure  of  human  volunteers,  but  there  are 
obvious  ethical  problems  in  extending  the  range  of  exposure 


to  pollutant  concentrations  that  are  likely  to  cause  a 
deterioration  of  health.  Much  of  the  information  needed  for 
the  difficult  decisions  of  air  management  must  thus  be 
collected  by  epidemiological  analysis  of  "natural 
experiments . " 

Runners  provide  ideal  subjects  for  such  experiments, 
from  several  points  of  view.  Firstly,  their  habit  of 
sustained  and  vigorous  exercise  increases  the  dose  of  most 
pollutants  by  a  factor  of  at  least  ten,  increasing  exposure 
(22,23).  Secondly,  they  often  exercise  along  busy  auto- 
routes  where  the  concentration  of  car  exhaust  pollutants  is 
particularly  high.  Thirdly,  exposure  to  most  compounds  is 
exacerbated  by  the  fact  that  a  high  demand  for  oxygen  forces 
them  to  breathe  through  the  mouth,  by-passing  the  normal 
filtration  mechanism  of  the  nose.  Rapid  ventilation  carries 
both  particles  and  vapours  deep  into  the  lungs.  Finally, 
their  performance  is  timed  to  a  small  fraction  of  a  second, 
so  that  the  functional  impact  of  pollution  upon  oxygen 
transport  can  be  determined  very  precisely.  Not  only  are 
such  runners  interesting  from  an  epidemiological  point  of 
view,  but  given  the  mass  interest  in  "fun-runs",  any  adverse 
consequences  of  such  increased  exposure  to  pollutants  must  be 
a  matter  of  public  concern. 

An  important  feature  of  this  study  was  the  measure  of 
personal  exposure  using  multi-site  mobile  monitoring  along 
the  running  route,  to  follow  pollution  levels  over  the  course 


7 


of  training  runs.  Other  confounding  factors  including 
relative  humidity  and  temperature  have  been  introduced  as  co- 
variates  in  the  analyses,  thus  controlling  for  such 
influences. 


METHODS 

1 )   Subjects . 

The  difficulty  in  using  many  of  the  "fun-runs"  in 
Toronto  and  elsewhere  is  that  they  attract  a  large  population 
of  runners  with  varied  levels  of  ability,  and  that  the  group 
is  not  consistent  in  its  composition  from  one  meet  to  the 
next.  We  have  thus  tested  members  of  the  Longboat 
Roadrunners  Club,  to  follow  their  performance  on  a  weekly 
basis.  This  club,  named  after  the  internationally  known 
Indian  competitor  from  the  Six  Nations  Reserve  is  a  group  of 
some  160  runners  at  different  levels  of  fitness,  who  cover 
distances  of  up  to  65  miles  (110  km)  per  week.  Some  of  the 
participants  have  achieved  race  times  of  53  minutes  for  10 
miles  (16  km);  a  ventilation  of  at  least  80  L/min  is  to  be 
anticipated  (more  than  twice  the  threshold  for  oral  breathing 
(24).  On  Wednesday  evening  (5:30  PM) ,  their  training  and 
running  route  (6-10  miles)  follows  the  downtown  core  and  the 
crowded  Lakeshore  transportation  corridor,  where  there  is  a 
potential  for  heavy  exposure  to  vehicle  exhaust. 

A  total  of  81  subjects  were  entered  into  the  study. 


B 


However,  10  subjects  who  only  completed  1  test  and  one  who 
had  incomplete  health  information  were  not  included  in  the 
analyses,  thus  leaving  70  subjects  with  2  or  more  tests. 
Runners  were  tested  a  total  of  2  to  20  times  during  Wednesday 
training  runs  (Table  1A) .  The  runners  fell  largely  into  three 
groups,  those  that  ran  6  miles  (10  km),  8  miles  (13  km)  or  10 
miles  (16  km)  during  Wednesday  training  runs,  although 
subjects  may  have  run  from  2  miles  (3  km)  to  14  miles  (22.5 
km)  (Table  1C)  .  Also,  the  subjects  did  not  necessarily  run 
the  same  distance  each  week. 

To  obtain  a  better  assessment  of  air  pollution  exposure,  a 
measure  of  dose  was  calculated  by  multiplying  the  integral  of 
local  pollutant  concentration  by  running  time  (minutes)  by 
ventilation  rate  (L/min).  The  runners  recorded  their  heart 
rates  by  palpation  at  the  mid-point  of  the  run;  this  in  turn 
was  used  to  estimate  their  ventilation  rates  during  the  run. 
Runners  were  taken  to  the  exercise  lab  at  Toronto  General 
Hospital,  on  a  separate  day  from  the  run  day,  where  they  ran 
on  a  treadmill  at  a  series  of  speeds  covering  their  range  of 
training  and  racing  paces.  Ventilation,  heart  rate  and  other 
variables  were  measured  during  the  treadmill  test.  For  each 
runner,  a  regression  was  obtained  for  heart  rate  vs. 
respiratory  minute  ventilation.  In  order  to  linearize  the 
regression,  the  log  ventilation  was  used.  Thirty-nine 
runners  had  from  1  to  3  treadmill  tests.  Heart  rates 
measured  by  the  runners  during  training  runs  were  used  to 


predict  their  ventilation,  using  the  regression  equation 
developed  for  each  runner.  Predicted  ventilations  obtained 
using  the  reported  heart  rates  with  the  individual  regression 
equations  showed  a  mean  +  SD  of  68  +  27  L/min.  The  estimated 
dose  based  on  these  predicted  ventilations  may  be  a  better 
estimate  of  risk  than  the  pollutant  concentration  taken 
alone,  and  may  be  used  to  account  for  any  possible 
differences  between  the  6,  8  and  10  mile  groups  in  pulmonary 
function  and  COHb*  changes,  or  symptom  ratings  during 
training    runs. 

2 .       Air    pollution    exposure. 

Field  samplers  (GAGE  MULTI-POLLUTANT  SAMPLERS)  -  S02, 
N02  and  respirable  particulate  matter  were  measured  using 
sampling  systems  designed  and  constructed  at  The  Gage 
Research  Institute  (25).  We  have  used  these  samplers  with 
success  for  the  past  several  years  (19,  25-28).  They  are 
small,  portable,  multi-pollutant  samplers  driven  by  a 
battery-operated  pump  system.  Concentrations  are  reported  as 
a  time-weighted  average  over  the  sampling  period.  The 
particulate  sampler  consists  of  a  cyclone  and  filter  cassette 
assembly,  operated  at  a  flow  rate  of  1.7  L/min,  yielding  a 
50515  particle  cut  of  5  microns  (29).  Particulate  filters  are 
.weighted  to  an  accuracy  of  0.001  mg  and  are  desiccated 
(before  weighing)  in  the  presence  of  anhydrous  calcium 
sulphate    for    24    hrs ,    both    before    and   after    use.       The    filters 


10 


have  been  stored  in  closed  petri  dishes  and  could  be  analyzed 
at  some  future  date  for  sulphates,  nitrates,  chlorides  and 
trace  metals  at  a  later  date.  The  gas  systems  for  N02  and 
S02  each  use  2  impingers  in  parallel  (with  one  teflon  inlet) 
containing  appropriate  absorbing  solutions,  operated  at  1.0 
L/min  (500  ml/impinger ) .  S02  concentration  is  assessed  by 
the  West  and  Gaeke  method  (30),  and  the  U.S.  EPA  NAAQS  (31). 
The  N02  concentration  is  assessed  by  the  TGS-ANSA  method 

(32)  . 

Samplers  were  carried  on  2  bicycles  (mobile  samplers) 
to  assess  "personal  exposure";  one  bicycle  followed  alongside 
the  6  mile  (10  km)  runners  and  the  other  bicycle  followed 
alongside  the  10  mile  (16  km)  runners.  Each  bicycle  carried 
2  particulate  samplers,  4  N02  impingers  and  4  S02  impingers, 
as  a  check  for  lntersampler  accuracy.  Gage  stationary 
samplers  were  also  located  at  a  central  M0E  monitoring 
network  site  (  Br eada 1  bane )  and  included  2  particulate 
samplers,  2  N02  impingers  and  2  S02  impingers. 

The  samplers  were  calibrated  as  in  previous  studies, 
with  monthly  calibration  checks  (26,  28). 

CO  Analyzer  -  CO  concentrations  were  assessed  using  a 
Thermo  Electron  CO  analyzer  (Thermo  Electron  Inst.,  model 
48).  Carbon  monoxide  is  detected  by  infra-red  absorption. 
This  is  a  highly  selective  method  providing  more  stability 
and  accuracy  than  electrochemical  methods.   The  CO  analyzer 


11 


was  positioned  at  the  start  of  the  running  route,  where  the 
runners  gathered  before  the  beginning  of  the  run.  It  was 
used  to  measure  CO  for  the  carboxyhaemoglobi n  (COHb%) 
rebreathe  test. 

In  order  to  assess  "personal  exposure" ,  2  portable  CO 
monitors  (Industrial  Scientific,  model  CO-260)  were  used. 
These  monitors  are  continuously  reading,  and  use  an 
electrochemical  cell  to  detect  CO.  One  monitor  was  carried 
on  each  bicycle.  Recordings  were  taken  at  various  sites 
along  the  route  (Tables  3D  and  3E). 

The  CO  analyzers  were  zeroed  and  calibrated  before  each 
sampling  period.  The  CO  analyzers  were  calibrated  using  a 
primary  standard  CO  cylinder  gas.  Calibration  was  also 
checked  at  the  end  of  the  sampling/testing  period.  Analyzers 
were  checked  for  linearity  on  a  monthly  basis,  using  3 
primary  standard  CO  cylinder  gases  with  concentrations 
covering  the  range  of  20,  40  and  60  ppm  CO. 

Collection  of  Other  Environmental  Data  -  Data  were  also 
obtained  from  the  air  pollution  monitoring  network  of  the 
Ontario  Ministry  of  the  Environment  (temperature,  03 ,  S02 , 
CO,  total  hydrocarbons,  oxides  of  nitrogen,  suspended 
particulate  matter,  lead,  sulphates,  nitrates,  coefficient  of 
haze  and  the  Air  Pollution  Index) ,  at  their  Breadalbane  and 
Evans/Arnold  sites.  Temperature  and  relative  humidity  were 
obtained  from  Atmospheric  Environment  Services  ( AES ) ,  at 
their  Trinity  College  site.   The  two  MOE  sites  and  the  AES 


12 


site  are  shown  on  a  map  of  the  running  route  in  Appendix  I. 
The  pollutant  and  environmental  data  were  used  along  with  the 
weekly  Gage  samplers1  data  to  plot  the  weekly  changes  of  the 
pollution  along  the  running  route  taken  by  the  Longboat 
Roadrunners  Club  every  Wednesday  evening.  A 
temperature/humidity  monitor  (Jenway,  model  5500)  using  a  wet 
bulb/dry  bulb  system  with  air  pump  was  carried  on  the  Gage  10 
mile  bicycle  and  readings  taken  at  4  points  along  the  route. 

3)   Health  Effects. 

Carboxyhaemoglobin  Determinations  (C0Hb%)  -  The  COHb* 
was  determined,  pre  and  post  run,  by  the  rebreathing 
technique  of  Henderson  and  Apthorp  (33).  Subjects  rebreathed 
from  a  5  litre  bag  of  10035  02  for  2  minutes,  after  which  the 
bag  was  sampled  for  CO  concentration.  We  have  found  this 
method  to  be  reliable  in  previous  studies  (34,  35). 

Pulmonary  Function  Measurements  -  Spirometric  tests  of 
lung  function  were  made  pre  and  post  run  using  two  Med- 
Science  Wedge  spirometers.  Measurements  included  forced 
vital  capacity  (FVC) ,  forced  expiratory  volume  in  one  second 
(FEV\),  forced  expiratory  flow  at  75%  of  FVC  (FEF75),  50%  of 
FVC  (FEF50) ,  peak  expiratory  flow  rate  (PEFR)  and  inspiratory 
capacity  (IC).  Tests  were  administered  according  to  standard 
procedures  (36).  At  each  test  session,  at  least  2  paired 
maximum  expiratory  manoeuvres  were  performed  by  the  subjects, 
until  2  spirograms  were  obtained  that  were  reproducible  to 


13 


within  5%  for  FVC  and  FEVj  .  The  spirometer  was  calibrated 
before  and  after  each  session  for  volume  (using  a  4  litre 
syringe)  and  flow  (using  a  10  L/sec  rotameter). 

Symptoms  -  Immediately  after  training  runs,  runners 
were  asked  to  subjectively  rate  (using  a  modified  Borg  0-10 
scale)  a  number  of  respiratory  and  other  symptoms,  and  also 
to  rate  the  air  pollution  on  the  running  route  (Appendix  II). 

Quest  ionnal res  -  Questionnaires  evaluated  individual 
training  patterns  (intensity,  duration,  frequency,  mode), 
performance  (training  times,  race  times,  self  evaluation)  and 
symptoms  (breathing  and  leg  fatigue  rating)  and  any  cold  or 
allergy  symptoms  (Appendix  III).  Information  on  health  was 
collected  using  the  California  Medical  Survey,  a  personal 
data  questionnaire  and  the  American  Thoracic  Society 
Questionnaire  (37) . 

4)   Statistical  Methods 

Arithmetic  means,  standard  deviations,  ranges  and 
frequency  distributions  were  employed  for  the  statistical 
summaries  of  the  variables  which  included  the  pollutant, 
symptom  and  pulmonary  function  variables  and 
carboxyhaemoglobin . 

The  relationships  between  the  environmental  variables 
such  as  N02  and  temperature,  and  the  response  variables, 
which  included  the  symptom  variables,  the  pulmonary  function 
variables     and    carboxyhaemoglobin    were     investigated    using 


14 


multiple  regression  methods. 

Backward  stepwise  linear  regression  was  employed  to 

assist  in  the  identification  of  those  combinations  of 

environmental  variables  that  best  predicted  the  response 

variables.   All  regression  models  included  as  a  factor  each 

runner's  ID  code.    Therefore,  all  relationships  identified 

were  between  days  within  runners,  i.e.  taking  into  account 

events  within  individuals.   The  backward  stepwise  approach 

begins  with  a  regression  model  that  includes  all  of  the 

environmental  variables  in  the  list  of  predictor  variables. 

The  predictor  variable  whose  regression  coefficient  has  the 

largest  p  value  is  deleted  from  the  list  of  predictor 

variables,  and  a  multiple  regression  analysis  is  repeated  on 

the  reduced  list  of  predictor  variables.    Again,   the 

predictor  variable  with  the  largest  p  value  is  deleted  from 

the  list,  and  once  more  a  multiple  regression  analysis  is 

performed  on  the  reduced  list.  This  process  is  continued 

until  one  has  a  regression  model  that  can  best  predict  the 

i 

response  variable.  It  is  not  correct  to  delete  variables 
until  all  of  the  remaining  variables  have  statistically 
significant  regression  coefficients,  that  is,  have  p  values 
below  some  arbitrary  level  such  as  0.05.  The  p  value  is  a 
function  of  sample  size,  thus  this  approach  does  not 
guarantee  the  best  model . 

In  trying  to  choose  the  best  model,  we  must  strike  a 
balance  between  bias  and  precision.  If  we  have  too  many 


15 


variables  in  our  model,  it  will  have  low  bias  but  high 
variance.  If  we  have  too  few  variables  in  our  model,  we  wil] 
have  low  variance  but  large  bias.  One  approach  that  is 
suggested  and  used  by  many  researchers  is  to  choose  the  model 
that  has  the  lowest  Mallow's  CP  statistic  (38).  The  CP 
statistic  measures  the  bias  and  variance  of  a  regress 
model.  However,  because  the  CP  statistic  is  based  on  a  sample 
of  data,  it  too  can  fluctuate.  Therefore,  this  approach  is 
simply  a  guide  in  picking  out  the  best  model. 

Suppose  that  the  final  or  "best"  regression  model 
identified  by  the  stepwise  procedure  has  three  environmental 
variables.  For  example,  as  will  be  reported  in  detail  in  the 
RESULTS  section,  the  regression  model  for  the  response 
variable  POLLUTE,  the  subjective  reporting  of  pollutant 
exposure,  that  is  identified  by  the  stepwise  procedure, 
includes  the  three  environmental  variables  N02,  mean  CO  and 
average  temperature.  This  model  is  not  necessarily  the  model 
with  the  highest  multiple  correlation  coefficient  (R2)  or  the 
lowest  Mallow's  CP  statistic  among  regression  models  that 
have  three  predictor  variables.  Furthermore,  even  if  this 
were  the  case,  and  the  stepwise  procedure  was  successful  in 
identifying  the  model  with  the  highest  R2  and  the  lowest 
Mallow's  CP  statistic,  there  may  be  other  three  variable 
models  with  only  slightly  smaller  R2,  which  make  as  much  or 
more  biological  sense.  This  possibility  can  be  tested  using 
what  is  called  "all  possible  regressions"  analysis.  After 


16 


identifying  the  number  of  variables  that  the  model  might  have 
(backward  stepwise  regression),  one  performs  a  regression 
analysis  on  all  possible  combinations  of  three  variables 
selected  from  the  original  list  of  variables.  One  then  ranks 
these  three  variable  models  by  their  R2 .  Thus  one  could  then 
identify  other  models  that  would  have  been  missed  by  the 
stepwise  procedure,  but  are  biologically  meaningful  and  only 
slightly  less  statistically  powerful. 

The  final  analysis  was  multiple  linear  regression 
analysis,  to  obtain  the  p  values  associated  with  the 
regression  coefficients  in  the  competing  models  that  were 
identified  by  the  all  possible  regressions  procedure.  The 
models  identified  by  the  original  screen  of  the  stepwise 
regression  analysis  may  include  regression  coefficients  whose 
p  values  are  larger  than  0.05.  This  usually  suggests  that 
other  models  with  similar  predictive  power  may  not  include 
this  variable.  We  suggest  that  for  this  reason,  as  well  as 
because  we  are  making  so  many  comparisons,  that  only 
regression  coefficients  with  p  values  less  than  0.01  should 
be  considered  important  by  themselves.  Furthermore,  it  has 
been  our  experience  that  only  with  such  low  p  values  will  the 
variable  sustain  the  more  robust  statistical  analysis 
described  below. 

For  significant  relationships  identified  by  the  regression 
analysis,  an  analysis  of  individual  slopes  was  carried  out. 
For  each  individual  runner,  a  linear  regression  slope  was 


17 


calculated  between  the  response  and  predictor  variables 
identified  by  the  regression  analyses.  The  frequency 
distributions  of  these  slopes  were  tabulated  and  their 
arithmetic  means  determined.  The  hypothesis  that  the  mean  of 
such  a  distribution  is  zero  was  tested  with  the  one  sample  t 
test,  the  Wilcoxon  signed  rank  test  and  the  sign  test.  The 
latter  tests  are  more  appropriate  for  distributions  that  are 
skewed  and  have  other  departures  from  the  Gaussian 
assumption.  The  slopes  analysis  is  a  more  robust  test  of  the 
relationships  between  exposure  and  response  variables.  It  is 
not  affected  by  the  possible  serial  correlation  between 
observations  taken  over  time,  as  is  the  multiple  linear 
regression  analysis.  Therefore,  relationships  found  to  be 
statistically  significant  by  the  regression  analysis  are 
sometimes    not    found    to    be    significant    in    the    slopes    analysis. 


RESULTS 

1 )  Sub.ject  Testing 

Health  testing  of  the  runners  was  completed  October  26, 
1988.  Over  the  3  year  study,  81  runners  (50%  of  the  club 
membership)  were  tested  at  least  once,  giving  a  total  of  740 
test-sets  (sum  of  tests  for  all  runners).  Table  1A  shows  a 
breakdown  of  the  number  of  repeat  health  tests  on  the 
runners.  Since  we  examined  the  regression  of  pollution 
concentration  vs.  health  variables  (symptoms,  pulmonary 


18 


function,  and  COHb),  data  could  be  used  from  runners  who 
completed  two  or  more  repeat  health  tests,  providing  the 
pollution  data  on  the  corresponding  health  test  days  was  also 
complete.  Thus  the  final  data  set  contained  70  runners  (54 
male,  16  female)  and  712  test-sets,  over  75  weeks  of  testing 
(Table  IB),  completed  over  a  "half"  season  (1986)  and  two 
complete  run-testing  seasons  (1987  &  1988).  Table  1C  shows 
the  summary  of  run  distance  and  number  of  runners.  The  run 
distance  ranged  from  2  to  14  miles  (3  -  22.5  km),  although 
there  were  three  main  groups,  6  miles  or  10  km  (52  runners  & 
204  test-sets),  8  miles  or  13  km  (46  runners  &  149  test-sets) 
and  10  miles  or  16  km  (58  runners  &  337  test-sets).  It 
should  be  noted  that  runners  did  not  always  run  the  same 
distance  each  week. 

2)  Pollutant  Concentrations 

Tables  2A-C  show  mean  pollutant  concentration  over  1987 
and  1988,  for  (a)  the  Gage  mobile  samplers  (6  and  10  miles), 
(b)  the  Gage-Breadalbane  site  stationary  samplers,  and  (c) 
the  two  Ontario  Ministry  of  Environment  (M0E)  monitoring 
stations,  one  at  26  Breadalbane  St.,  Toronto  (MOE- 
Breadalbane)  and  the  other  at  Evans/Arnold  Ave.,  Etobicoke 
(MOE-Evans) .  Pollution  data  was  reported  for  N02,  S02,  CO 
and  particulates  only  if  data  was  complete  for  these  four 
pollutants  at  all  stationary  and  mobile  sites  described 
above.   A  total  of  34  "weeks"  of  complete  Wednesday  (runday) 


19 


pollution  data  was  collected.   There  were  only  two  days  with 
complete  data  in  1986,  thus  they  were  not  included  in  these 

Tables . 

Table  2A  (1987)  shows  that  for  N02:  (a)  the  two  MOE 
sites  showed  different  levels,  the  Evans  site  being 
consistently  higher  (39  ppb)  than  the  Breadalbane  site  (27 
ppb),  (b)  the  Gage-Breadalbane  (30  ppb)  and  MOE-Breadalbane 
(27  ppb)  were  within  3  ppb,  (c)  overall  there  was  no 
difference  between  Gage  mobile  (average  of  6-  and  10-mile) 
and  MOE  (average  of  Breadalbane  and  Evans)  stationary  sites, 
and  (d)  the  maximum  levels  recorded  ranged  from  50  to  55  ppb 
for  the  five  "sites",  these  levels  are  1/4  of  the  1-hr 
Ontario  MOE  Ambient  Air  Quality  Criterion  ( AAQC )  of  213  ppb 
and  1/5  of  the  Ontario  MOE  Point  of  Impingement  (POI) 
standard  of  267  ppb  (limiting  effect  based  on  health). 

Mean  sulphur  dioxide  levels  were  all  below  10  ppb. 
Maximum  values  were  30  ppb  or  lower,  well  below  the  1-hr  AAQC 
of  264  ppb  and  the  0.5-hr  POI  standard  of  317  ppb.  However, 
it  should  be  noted  that  the  limiting  effect  for  S02  takes 
into  account  both  health  and  vegetation  effects. 

For  carbon  monoxide:  (a)  mean  levels  at  the  two  MOE 
stations  were  similar  for  Breadalbane  (1.1  ppm)  and  Evans 
(1.4  ppm),  (b)  the  Gage  6-mile  CO  (4.3  ppm)  was  higher  than 
the  Gage-10  mile  CO  (2.7  ppm),  (c)  the  two  MOE  stationary 
sites  underestimated  the  CO  exposure  of  the  runners  by  48%  to 
74*  and  (d)  the  maximum  mean  CO  concentrations  for  the  Gage 


20 


6-mile  (7.4  ppm)  and  10-mile  (7.2  ppm )  mobile  monitors  were 
approximately  1/4  of  the  1-hr  AAQC  (31.6  ppm)  and  above  the 
0.5-hr  POI  standard  (5.2  ppm),  limiting  effects  based  on 

health. 

Respirable  suspended  particulate  (RSP)  matter  showed 
that  (a)  the  Gage  6-mile  (104  micrograms/m3 )  was  higher  than 
the  Gage  10-mile  (72  micrograms/m3),  and  (b)  the  Gage- 
Breadalbane  (55  micrograms/m3)  underestimated  the  RSP 
exposure  of  the  runners  by  47%  (Gage  6-mile)  and  24*  (Gage 
10-miie).  No  comparisons  can  be  made  between  the  MOE  total 
suspended  particulate  (SP)  matter  (Hi-Vol  sampler,  24-hr 
average)  and  the  Gage  RSP  measurements,  due  to  different 
sampling  methods,  fractions  collected,  and  sampling  period. 
There  is  no  AAQC  or  POI  standard  for  non-specific  RSP. 
Furthermore,  for  total  SP,  the  limiting  effects  for  the  AAQC 
and  POI  standard  are  based  on  visibility,  not  health. 

Table  2B  (1988)  showed  similar  trends  for  N02  and  S02 , 
compared  to  1987,  although  the  maximum  level  at  the  MOE-Evans 
site  was  higher  for  N02  (100  ppb)  and  S02  (60  ppb)  .  Carbon 
monoxide  levels  in  1988  also  showed  similar  patterns  as  in 
1987,  although  levels  for  the  mobile  samplers  were 
approximately  40*  lower  than  1987  levels.  This  was  possibly 
a  result  of  changes  in  the  1988  running  route,  detailed  in 
the  March  1989  progress  report  (Appendix  VIII).  Again,  as  in 
1987,  the  MOE  stationary  sites  underestimated  the  runners  CO 
exposure  (Gage  mobile  samplers)  by  35*  to  73*.   The  RSP  in 


21 


1988  for  the  Gage  6-  and  10-mile  mobile  samplers  was  34$  and 
24%  lower  than  1987  levels,  respectively,  following  a  similar 
pattern  to  CO.  As  in  1987,  the  Gage-Breadalbane  sampler 
underestimated  the  runners  RSP  exposure  by  52%  (6-mile)  and 
40*  ( 10-mile) . 

Table  2C  shows  combined  1987  and  1988  data. 
Differences  between  mobile  6-mile  and  10-mile  are  most 
apparent  for  CO,  RSP  and  to  a  lesser  extent  N02,  in  all 
cases,  the  6-mile  level  being  higher.  The  MOE  levels  for  CO, 
and  Gage-Breadalbane  for  RSP  (stationary,  fixed-sites), 
underestimate  the  runners  exposure  (mobile  levels)  by  up  to 
73%.  Finally,  the  Gage-Breadalbane  and  MOE-Breadalbane 
levels  were  within  1  ppb,  for  both  N02  and  S02 ,  indicating 
that  the  two  sampling  methods  (impingers  vs  monitors)  were 
highly  comparable. 

Tables  3A-3C  show  mean  N02  ,  S02  and  CO  concentrations 
for  the  same  monitoring  sites  as  Tables  2A-C,  including  all 
available  data  over  the  75  weeks  of  pollution  monitoring.  In 
addition,  the  1800  hrs .  and  1900  hrs .  averages  are  shown  for 
the  MOE  sites.  This  is  the  data  that  was  used  to  develop  the 
regression  equations  relating  pollutant  concentration  to 
pulmonary  function,  COHb  and  symptom  scores.  Comparing  N02 
concentrations  (Tables  2C  and  3A) ,  the  mean  levels  using  data 
collected  over  all  possible  weeks  were  almost  identical  to 
the  subset  of  34  weeks  in  which  complete  data  across  all  five 
monitoring  sites  was  available.    Also  of  note  is  the  fact 


22 


that  the  1800  hrs .  and  1900  hrs .  averages  for  the  two  MOE 
sites  differed  by  only  1  to  2  ppb ,  suggesting  a  fairly 
constant  N02  level  over  this  period.  The  same  observations 
can  be  made  for  S02  (Table  3B)  .  Table  3C  shows  that  the  CO 
concentrations  are  slightly  higher  when  all  possible  weeks 
were  included  in  the  means,  compared  to  the  34  week  subset 
(Table  2C).  This  may  be  explained  by  the  higher  CO 
concentrations  measured  in  1986,  data  that  was  not  included 
in  Table  2C.  Thus  in  summary,  the  observations  regarding 
Tables  2A-C  can  be  considered  representative  of  the  complete 
data  set  that  was  used  to  develop  the  regression  equations. 

Tables  3D  and  3E  show  mean  CO  concentration  at  specific 
sites  along  the  running  route  measured  using  mobile, 
continuous  reading  electrochemical  CO  monitors,  for  the  6 
mile  (Table  3D)  and  10  mile  (Table  3E)  routes.  There  was 
only  one  mobile  CO  monitor  in  1986,  which  followed  the  10 
mile  runners,  thus  Table  3D  shows  means  for  1987  and  1988 
only.  The  number  of  weeks  with  measurements  at  specific 
sites  are  not  identical  (a)  due  to  missing  data,  (b)  on 
occasion,  runners  altered  their  running  route,  thus  adding  or 
missing  some  sites  (c)  four  new  sites  were  added  in  1987  (Tip 
Top  Taylors,  War  Plane,  four  mile  turn  point  and  Budapest 
Park)  after  discussions  at  the  March  6,  1987  MOE-Gage 
meeting,  (d)  due  to  Sky  Dome  construction  in  1988,  the 
Spadina  bridge  was  closed  to  pedestrians,  therefore  runners 
bypassed  this  area  and  followed  Front  St.  to  Bathurst  St., 


23 


thus  two  new  sites  were  added  (Front  and  Portland,  and 
Bathurst  Bridge),  and  (e)  in  1988,  runners  tended  to  bypass 
the  Peter  and  Front  site,  cutting  across  at  Peter  and 
Wellington,  thus  this  site  was  also  added  in  1988. 

Table  3D  shows  that  with  two  exceptions  (Lakeshore  and 
Bathurst,  and  Remembrance  Drive-3  mile  turn  point),  CO  at 
each  site  along  the  route  is  higher  on  the  way  out  than  on 
the  way  back.  These  differences  can  be  explained  by  the 
vehicular  traffic  burden,  with  peak  traffic  occurring  during 
the  "out"  CO  recordings,  while  during  "back"  recordings  the 
"rush  hour"  traffic  has  decreased.  Although  the  difference 
is  only  0.9  ppm,  the  mean  CO,  all  sites  averaged,  on  the  way 
out  (3.8  ppm)  is  higher  than  on  the  way  back  (2.9  ppm).  The 
peak  or  highest  CO  concentration  on  the  way  out  (12.1  ppm)  is 
also  higher  than  on  the  way  back  (8.3  ppm).  The  mean  CO 
concentration  for  the  6  mile  route,  all  sites  out  and  back, 
was  3.4  ppm  over  54  weeks,  similar  to  the  3.8  ppm  mean  in 
Table  3C  for  the  Gage-6  mile  CO  monitor  over  72  weeks,  when 
the  1986  values  were  calculated  using  estimated  values,  as 
detailed  in  the  Table  3C  footnote. 

Table  3E,  with  data  from  the  10  mile  bicycle,  shows  a 
similar  trend  to  the  6  mile  bicycle,  that  is,  with  three 
exceptions  (Front  and  Portland,  Canada  Malting,  and  the  War 
Plane),  the  CO  concentration  at  each  site  along  the  route  is 
higher  on  the  way  out  than  on  the  way  back.  The  same  pattern 
is  seen  for  peak  and  mean  CO  levels,  the  "out"  value  being 


24 


higher  than  the  "back"  value.  The  mean  CO  concentration  for 
the  10  mile  route,  all  sites  out  and  back,  was  2.7  ppm ,  lower 
than  the  3.4  ppm  recorded  for  the  6  mile  route. 

Table  4A  compares  mean  temperature  for  Wednesday  runs 
over  1986  to  1988,  for  the  Gage  10  mile  bicycle,  the  Evans 
Ave.  MOE  site  and  the  Trinity  College  Atmospheric  Environment 
Services  (AES)  site.  The  mean  temperature  was  17  -  18°C  for 
the  three  sites,  suggesting  that  any  site  could  be  used  to 
estimate  the  ambient  temperature.  Furthermore,  the 
temperature  range  for  the  three  sites  was  consistent  across 
the  sites,  with  a  low  of  2°C  and  a  high  of  31  -  33°C.  The 
reading  of  5°C  for  the  Gage  10  mile  bicycle  (low  range), 
compared  to  2°C  for  the  other  sites,  is  due  to  the  fact  that 
temperature  was  not  recorded  (Gage  -  10  mile)  on  the  coldest 
day  (Nov.  11,  1987).  The  Evans  MOE  site  showed  that  there 
was  no  change  in  temperature  from  1800  hrs .  to  1900  hrs .  , 
indicating  a  similar  thermal  load  for  the  6  and  10  mile 

runners . 

Mean  relative  humidity  (RH)  is  reported  in  Table  4B  for 
the  Gage  10  mile  bicycle  and  the  Trinity  College  AES  site, 
over  1987  and  1988.  No  Gage  RH  was  collected  in  1986, 
although  there  was  AES  data.  The  mean  RH  for  the  Gage 
monitor  (60%)  was  very  similar  to  the  AES  site  (58%),  as  were 
the  ranges,  again  suggesting  that  either  site  could  be  used 
to  estimate  the  runners  humidity  exposure. 


25 


3)  Health  Effects 

Table  5A  shows  subjective  ratings  of  8  symptoms  and  a 
subjective  rating  of  the  pollution  during  Wednesday  runs  over 
1986  -  1988,  for  all  run  groups  combined.   Runners  were  asked 
to  rate  the  8  symptoms  and  pollution  exposure  immediately 
after  their  run,  using  a  modified  Borg  scale  ranging  from  0 
{symptom  was  not  noticeable  or  no  pollution)  to  10  (very, 
very  strong,  almost  max  symptom  severity  or  pollution).   The 
POLLUTION  RATING,   LEG  FATIGUE  AND  BREATHING  FATIGUE  were 
recorded  during  the  entire  study,  while  the  other  6  symptoms 
were  added  the  third  week  of  1987  {after  reviewing  the  1986 
data,  and  from  experience  with  previous  environmental  chamber 
studies  using  these  symptoms) .   Due  to  time  constraints,  the 
symptoms  and  pollution  rating  were  not  always  obtained.   This 
is  reflected  by  the  number  of  test-sets  (N)  which  ranged  from 
464  to  700,  out  of  a  total  of  712  (Table  IB).   The  highest 
ratings  were  shown  for  the  average  POLLUTION  RATING  (3.3), 
LEG  FATIGUE  (3.3)  and  BREATHING  FATIGUE  (2.9),  which  were  in 
the  moderate  range  (Borg  rating  of  3),  although  they  varied 
from  a  low  of  0  to  a  high  of  10.   For  the  POLLUTION  RATING, 
in  69*  of  the  test-sets,  a  rating  of  3  or  greater  was 
recorded,  while  the  corresponding  values  for  LEG  FATIGUE  and 
BREATHING  FATIGUE  were  67%  and  61%,    respectively.   Lower  mean 
ratings  were  reported  for  respiratory  and  nasal  symptoms  and 
EYE  IRRITATION;  these  were  in  the  very  weak  (1)  to  weak  (2) 
range.    Among  these  six  symptoms,  only  NASAL  DISCHARGE  and 


26 


SPUTUM/PHLEGM  had  a  maximum  rating  of  10  reported,  while  the 
remaining  four  symptoms  had  maximum  ratings  of  7  or  8. 
Approximately  70*  of  the  reports  were  trace  (0.5)  or  higher 
for  NASAL  DISCHARGE  and  STUFFINESS,  and  SPUTUM/PHLEGM,  while 
the  corresponding  values  were  60*  for  EYE  IRRITATION,  54*  for 
SORE/DRY  THROAT  and  38*  for  COUGH. 

Table  5B  shows  the  average  symptom  and  pollution 
ratings  from  Table  5A,  categorized  into  the  three  main  run 
groups,  6,  8  and  10  miles.  The  ratings  appear  to  be 
independent  of  the  run  distance  and  show  no  consistent 
trends  . 

Results  of  background  anthropometric  and  pulmonary 
function  test  results  performed  at  The  Gage  Research 
Institute  are  shown  in  Table  6A.  Runners  may  have  performed 
up  to  three  of  these  tests,  however,  only  the  initial  test 
results  are  shown  in  this  Table.  The  initial  background 
tests  were  performed  only  after  runners  had  completed  at 
least  four  Wednesday  run  tests,  and  remained  actively 
involved  in  the  study.  The  background  tests  were  completed 
immediately  prior  to  (on  the  same  day)  the  treadmill  tests. 
Background  data  was  completed  on  45  of  the  58  runners  in  the 
study  who  completed  four  or  more  Wednesday  run  tests,  and 
included  34  males  and  11  females.  The. 13  who  did  not  have 
background  testing,  either  dropped  out  of  the  study,  or  had 
declined  when  asked  to  do  the  tests.  The  average  age  of  the 
runners  was  37  yrs ,  and  ranged  from  17  to  57  yrs ,  the  male 


27 


runners  being  slightly  older  {38  yrs )  than  the  female  runners 
(34  yrs).  The  runners  were  of  average  height  for  their 
gender,  while  as  expected,  they  were  lean,  the  mean  weight 
being  69  kg  for  males  and  55  kg  for  females.  The  background 
flow-volume  data  was  performed  on  an  Eagle  spirometer  (water 
filled  8  liter  bell)  with  microprocessor  (Collins  Eagle  One). 
All  values  were  in  the  normal  range  of  80  -  120%  of  predicted 
normal  values  for  FVC  and  FEV1(  and  50  -  150%  for  FEF50  and 
FEF75;  in  fact,  the  mean  FVC,  FEVX  and  FEF50  were  above  100% 
of  the  predicted  normal  values  (39  -  41),  but  still  within 
the  normal  range.  The  percent  of  predicted  normal  values  of 
FEF50  and  FEF75  were  slightly  higher  for  females  than  males. 
The  mean  lung  volumes,  airway  resistance  and  single  breath  CO 
diffusion  capacity  of  the  lung  were  all  within  the  normal 
limits.  These  data  indicate  that  the  runners  were  very 
healthy  in  terms  of  their  respiratory  function. 

Table  6B  shows  results  of  the  pulmonary  function  and 
C0Hb%  tests  performed  immediately  before  the  Wednesday  runs, 
over  1986  -  1988;  this  data  was  used  as  the  reference  or 
baseline  measurements  for  Tables  6C-E,  where  changes  in 
pulmonary  function  over  the  run  were  calculated.  The  flow- 
volume  measurements  were  made  using  a  Wedge  Spirometer  and  X- 
Y  recorder.  The  flow-volume  variables  were  hand  calculated 
from  the  X-Y  tracing.  Comparing  Table  6B  with  6A,  and 
keeping  in  mind  that  the  ratio  of  males  to  females  was 
different  (^4:1  in  Table  6B  and  ^  3:1  in  Table  6A)  ,  the 


28 


variables  FVC ,  FEVj  ,  PEFR  and  FEF50  were  within  5*  of  Table 
6A,  indicating  that  the  hand  calculated  values  were 
comparable  to  the  microprocessor  calculated  values.  The 
higher  FEF75  in  Table  6B  compared  to  6A  can  be  explained  by 
the  larger  percentage  of  males  in  Table  6B,  males  having  a 
larger  FEF?5  than  females. 

The  two-minute  oxygen  rebreathe  estimate  of  blood 
carboxyhaemoglobin  percent  shows  a  mean  prerun  value  of  0.4*. 
Baseline  COHb*  in  non-smokers  is  0.4*,  due  to  endogenous  CO 
production,  but  may  be  1.0  to  1.5*  due  to  urban  air 
pollution,  such  as  car  exhaust,  or  exposure  to  "second  hand" 
cigarette  smoke.  Smokers,  on  the  other  hand,  have  an 
elevated  COHb*  compared  to  non-smokers,  primarily  dependent 
on  the  amount  smoked.  There  were  only  three  runners  with  a 
prerun  COHb*  above  1.5*,  one  of  which  was  a  smoker  of  15 
cigarettes  per  day;  we  could  not  confirm  if  the  other  two 
runners  smoked.  Thus  the  two  runners  may  have  been  current 
smokers,  or  alternatively,  had  a  very  high  CO  exposure  prior 
to  the  Wednesday  prerun  testing.  There  were  two  additional 
runners  who  had  a  prerun  COHb*  above  1.0*,  neither  of  them 
were  smokers;  we  assume  exposure  was  due  to  urban  CO  exposure 
and/or  "second  hand"  smoke  exposure  at  work  before  the 
testing.  Among  21  runners  who  answered  respiratory  health 
questionnaires,  14  had  never  smoked,  16  were  ex-smokers  and 
one  was  a  current  smoker. 

Table  6C  shows  the  mean  pulmonary  function  and  COHb* 


29 


absolute  change  (post  run  minus  prerun),  over  1986  -  1988. 
Over  the  run,  mean  pulmonary  function  changes  were  small, 
with  decreases  in  FVC ,  IC,  PEFR,  and  FEF50 .  There  were  small 
increases  in  FEVj  and  FEF75-  For  most  of  the  pulmonary 
function  variables,  the  maximum  increase  and  decrease  were 
fairly  similar  in  magnitude  about  the  zero  or  no  change 
value.  However,  the  COHb*  (mean  absolute  decrease  of  0.07*) 
ranged  from  an  absolute  decrease  of  1.5435  to  an  absolute 
increase  of  0.26*.  Only  8  or  1.2*  of  the  test-sets  (5 
runners)  showed  an  increase  in  COHb*  over  the  run. 

Table  6D  shows  the  same  variables  as  Table  6C, 
expressed  as  a  percent  change,  that  is,  the  absolute 
change/prerun  value  x  100.  The  mean  changes  in  pulmonary 
function  were  small,  less  than  5*,  although  the  ranges  showed 
a  greater  variability,  with  substantial  increases  and 
decreases.  If  a  change  of  15*  is  taken  as  a  reference  point, 
for  FVC,  FEVj ,  ic  and  PEFR,  more  runners  (test-sets)  showed 
decrements  of  15*  or  greater  over  the  run  than  increases  of 
15*  or  greater.  The  absolute  number  of  decreases  and 
increases,  of  15*  or  greater  were  as  follows:  for  FVC  1  and 
0,  FEVj  2  and  1,  IC  61  and  7,  and  PEFR  6  and  4,  respectively. 
For  FEF50  and  FEF75,  a  different  pattern  was  seen,  fewer 
runners  showed  a  decrease  of  15*  or  greater,  than  an  increase 
of  15*  or  greater,  the  absolute  numbers  being  35  and  56  for 
FEF50  and  75  and  137  for  FEF?5. 

Table  6E  compares  the  three  run  groups,  6,  8  and  10 


30 


miles,  for  the  variables  in  Table  6D,  that  is  percent  change 
in  pulmonary  function  and  COHb*.  There  were  no  dramatic 
differences  between  the  three  run  groups. 

4 .   Exposure  Response  Relationships 

The  frequency  distributions  for  the  six  symptom  variables, 
SORE/DRY  THROAT,  COUGH,  SPUTUM/PHLEGM,  STUFFY  NOSE,  NASAL 
DISCHARGE  and  EYE  IRRITATION  are  given  in  Table  7,  and 
supplement  the  information  already  presented  in  Table  5A. 
The  rating  scale  used  was  a  10  point  severity  scale.  One  can 
see  that  on  28*  to  62*  of  the  days,  runners  actually  reported 
experiencing  absolutely  no  trace  of  symptoms  (rating  of  0). 
The  frequency  distributions  for  BREATHING  FATIGUE,  LEG 
FATIGUE  and  POLLUTION  RATING  are  given  in  Table  8.  For  these 
three  variables  and  particularly  for  the  Pollution  Rating 
scale,  there  were  very  few  days  on  which  runners  reported  no 
trace  of  symptom.  In  fact,  on  more  than  60*  of  the  days,  the 
runners  reported  at  least  a  moderate  level  {rating  of  3). 

The  results  of  the  stepwise  regression  analysis  for  the 
exposure  and  symptom  variables  shown  in  Table  9  utilize  the 
pollutant  concentrations  measured  by  the  Gage  personal 
monitors  that  were  placed  on  the  bicycles  that  accompanied 
the  runners  on  their  route.  Since  the  runners  did  not  run 
only  6  and  10  miles,  that  is,  the  same  routes  covered  by  the 
6  and  10  mile  mobile  Gage  samplers,  the  Gage  pollutant 
concentrations  used  in  the  regression  equations  were  as 


31 


follows:  (a)  if  the  distance  run  was  less  than  or  equal  to 
6  miles,  the  6  mile  concentration  was  used,  (b)  if  the 
distance  run  was  greater  than  or  equal  to  10  miles,  the  10 
mile  concentration  was  used  and  (c)  if  the  distance  run  was 
less  than  10  miles  or  greater  than  6  miles,  the  mean  of  the  6 
and  10  mile  concentrations  was  used.  From  inspection  of 
Table  9  we  see  that  the  response  variable  SORE/DRY  THROAT  is 
related  positively  to  the  variable  pollution  rating  (POLLUTE) 
and  negatively  to  the  variable  average  relative  humidity 
(AVRH) .  The  regression  coefficient  for  POLLUTE  is  0.18  with  a 
p  value  of  0.001,  that  is,  the  positive  relationship  between 
SORE/DRY  THROAT  and  POLLUTE  is  strongly  significant.  The 
negative  regression  coefficient  of  0.014  for  AVRH,  although 
statistically  significant  (p=0.002),  indicates  that  for  a 
change  of  relative  humidity  of  1*  there  will  be  a  change  of 
only  0.014  in  the  severity  score  for  the  variable  SORE/DRY 
THROAT . 

The  most  consistent  predictive  variable  was  POLLUTE,  which 
measured  the  runner's  subjective  feeling  about  the  level  of 
pollution  experienced  during  the  run.  In  all  cases,  the  sign 
of  the  partial  regression  coefficient  was  positive, 
indicating  that  on  days  the  runner  reported  a  higher 
pollution  rating,  the  runner  also  reported  a  higher  symptom 
rating.  For  the  three  respiratory  symptoms  SORE/DRY  THROAT, 
COUGH  and  SPUTUM/PHLEGM  and  for  the  symptom  NASAL  DISCHARGE, 
a  negative  relationship  was  found  with  average  relative 


3  2 


humidity.  A  negative  relationship  was  found  between  average 
temperature  (AVTEMP)  and  the  symptoms  SPUTUM/PHLEGM,  STUFFY 
NOSE  and  NASAL  DISCHARGE.  The  pollutant  S02  showed  only  weak 
positive  relationships  with  STUFFY  NOSE  (p=0.04)  and 
SPUTUM/PHLEGM  ( p=0 . 06 ) . 

The  consistent  relationships  found  for  the  pollution 
rating  scale  POLLUTE,  suggested  that  it  would  be  interesting 
to  discover  what  exposure  variables  would  be  significant  if 
it  were  left  out  of  the  model.  Furthermore,  the  variable 
POLLUTE  could  be  included  as  a  response  variable  in  its  own 
right.  The  results  of  these  analyses  that  excluded  POLLUTE 
from  the  list  of  predictor  variables  are  given  in  Table  10, 
as  summarized  below. 

For  the  symptom  variables  SORE/DRY  THROAT,  COUGH, 
SPUTUM/PHLEGM,  STUFFY  NOSE  and  NASAL  DISCHARGE,  the 
relationships  with  AVRH  and  AVTEMP  were  very  similar  to  what 
was  shown  in  Table  9.  The  weak  (p=0.04)  relationship  between 
STUFFY  NOSE  and  S02  shown  in  Table  9  was  replaced  in  Table  10 
by  a  similarly  weak  (p  =  0.06)  relationship  with  N02  and  a 
similar  (p=0.04)  relationship  with  PEAKCO .  The  variables 
BREATHING  FATIGUE  and  LEG  FATIGUE  which  were  related  to  the 
variable  POLLUTE,  are  shown  to  be  strongly  related  to 
temperature,  which  is  itself  strongly  positively  related  to 
the  pollution  rating  scale  POLLUTE. 

The  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE),  as  a  response 
variable,  is  shown  to  be  strongly  related  to  N02  (p=0.001), 


33 


mean  carbon  monoxide  (p=0.002)  and  mean  average  temperature 
(p=0.001)  . 

The  results  of  similar  analyses  for  the  pulmonary  function 
response  variables  are  given  in  Tables  11  and  12.  The 
results  for  the  analyses  that  include  the  predictor  variable 
POLLUTE  are  given  in  Table  11,  and  those  excluding  POLLUTE 
given  in  Table  12.  Inspection  of  these  two  tables  suggest 
that  only  the  negative  relationship  between  N02  and  FEF?5 
measured  at  the  end  of  the  run  (FEF75POST}  is  both 
statistically  strong  (p  <  0.005)  and  biologically  meaningful, 
that  is,  when  N02  concentration  is  high,  FEF75POST  is  low. 

The  structure  of  Tables  13,  14,  15  and  16  is  parallel  to 
those  in  tables  9,  10,  11  and  12,  except  that  the  pollutant 
measures  made  by  the  Ontario  Ministry  of  the  Environment 
(MOE)  at  their  Breadalbane  station  are  included  in  the  list 
of  predictor  variables,  along  with  those  measured  with  the 
Gage  portable  samplers.  Pollutant  concentrations  used  at  the 
MOE  Breadalbane  site  were  the  average  of  the  1800  hrs.  and 
1900  hrs.  mean  values  (see  Table  2A)  for  the  gaseous 
pollutants,  coefficient  of  haze  (BCOH)  and  the  Air  Pollution 
Index  (BAPI),  and  24-hr.  averages  for  particulates  (BPART), 
sulphates  ( BS04 ) ,  and  nitrates  (BN03),  collected  on  Wednesday 
run  days.  The  gases  included  CO  (BC0),  hydrocarbons  using  x- 
ray  analysis  ( BHCX ) ,  NO  (BN0),  N02  (BN02),  03  (B03),  and  S02 
( BS02 ) •  Because  of  the  extra  days  on  which  MOE  data  were  not 
collected,  the  sample  size  has  dropped  from  N=423  in  Table  9 


34 


to  N=335  in  Table  13.  Many  of  the  relationships  found  with 
POLLUTE,  AVRH  and  AVTEMP  and  given  In  Table  9,  were  again 
found  in  Table  13,  but  often  with  a  larger  p  value,  that  is, 
less  statistically  significant.  This  is  not  surprising, 
because  of  the  smaller  number  of  observations  in  the 
datasets.  For  example,  in  Table  9,  the  regression 
coefficient  between  SORE/DRY  THROAT  and  POLLUTE  is  0.18  with 
a  p  value  of  0.001,  whereas  in  Table  13  the  regression 
coefficient  is  0.16  with  a  p  value  of  0.04. 

Some  relationships  exist  in  Tables  13  and  14  for  which 
explanations  are  not  readily  apparent.  For  example, 
hydrocarbons  (BHCX)  are  negatively  related  to  SPUTUM/PHLEGM 
and  LEG  FATIGUE.  The  intercorrelations  between  hydrocarbons 
and  other  pollutants  have  not  yet  been  extensively  studied  in 
an  attempt  to  explain  such  anomalies. 

Table  14  shows  that  the  three  Gage  predictor  variables, 
average  temperature  (AVTEMP) ,  N02  and  mean  carbon  monoxide 
(MEANCO) ,  that  were  originally  found  to  be  positively  related 
to  the  pollution  rating  scale  POLLUTE  (Table  10),  were  again 
found  to  be  the  most  important  predictor  variables  of 
POLLUTE. 

The  results  of  the  analyses  of  the  pulmonary  function 
variables  are  given  in  Tables  15  and  16.  The  relationship 
found  previously  between  FEF^gPOST  and  the  Gage  measured  N02 
is  again  found  in  Tables  15  and  16.  In  addition  are  found  a 
negative  relationship  between  FEF75P0ST  and  the  M0E  measured 


35 


S02  and  a  positive  relationship  with  the  MOE  measured  S04 
(BS04).  The  positive  relationship  found  between  FEF75POST  and 
BS04  and  the  positive  relationship  between  FVCPOST  and  MOE 
measured  N03  are  not  easy  to  explain.  As  for  the  case  of 
hydrocarbons  and  SPUTUM / PHLEGM ,  mentioned  above,  such 
apparently  surprising  findings  may  be  due  to  the 
intercorrelations  among  the  environmental  variables. 

MODELS  FOR  THE  REBREATHE  CARBON  MONOXIDE 

The  rebreathe  estimate  of  the  carboxyhaemoglobin  (COHb*), 
measured  pre  and  post  run,  is  a  biological  marker  for  the 
amount  of  carbon  monoxide  (CO)  that  has  actually  entered  and 
remained  in  the  body.  Tables  17  and  18  show  the  results  of 
the  stepwise  regression  analyses  using  the  rebreathe  estimate 
(RBCO)  as  the  response  variable.  The  analysis  reported  in 
Table  17  includes  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE)  in  the 
list  of  predictor  variables,  whereas  the  results  reported  in 
Table  18  do  not.  Not  surprisingly,  the  mean  carbon  monoxide 
concentration  obtained  from  the  Gage  portable  samplers 
(MEANCO)  is  very  strongly  related  to  the  RBCO.  There  is  a 
suggestion  of  a  negative  relationship  between  RBCO  and  the 
peak  concentration  of  CO  (PEAKCO)  over  the  run.  This 
suggests  that  for  a  given  CO  concentration,  the  level  of  RBCO 
will  be  higher  at  the  end  of  the  run  if  the  exposure  was 
uniform  over  the  run,  rather  than  if  it  was  received  in  a 
large  pulse  at  some  point  during  the  run.   This  might  simply 


3fi 


mean  that  in  a  run  in  which  a  large  pulse  or  "pocket"  of  CO 
is  experienced,  there  may  be  some  time  in  which  to  exhale  it 
from  the  body  before  completion  of  the  run  and/or  lack  of 
time  to  absorb  it.  The  RBCO  at  the  end  of  the  run  (RBCOPOST) 
is  also  strongly  (p=0.0004)  related  to  the  N02  concentration 
over  the  run. 

MODELS  FOR  THE  POLLUTION  RATING  SCALE 

Because  of  the  statistical  significance  found  between  the 
pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE)  and  the  exposure  variables 
NO,  ,  temperature  and  carbon  monoxide,  an  all  possible 
regressions  analysis  was  conducted  to  determine  whether  other 
subsets  of  exposure  variables  would  lead  to  models  which  had 
biological  interest,  but  only  slightly  less  statistical 
power.  These  analyses  whose  results  are  shown  in  Tables  19, 
20  and  21  are  based  on  the  same  545  runner  days  of 
information  for  which  complete  information  existed  for  the 
Gage  variables  N02 ,  average  temperature,  mean  CO,  mean  RBCO 
and  respirable  particulates,  and  the  MOE-Breadalbane  ozone. 

In  Table  19  is  reported  the  model  which  is  almost  identical 
to  that  reported  at  the  bottom  of  Table  10.  The  analysis 
reported  in  Table  10  is  based  on  423  runner  days,  whereas  the 
analysis  reported  in  Table  19  is  based  on  545  runner  days  due 
to  the  increased  number  of  missing  observations  for  the 
individual  symptoms  which  were  not  included  in  the  analysis 


37 


reported  in  Table  19.  It  is  reassuring  that  two  analyses 
based  on  datasets  that  differ  in  size  by  more  than  20  percent 
achieve  such  similar  answers.  For  example,  the  regression 
coefficients  for  N02,  MEANCO  and  AVTEMP  from  Table  10  are 
0.009,  0.14  and  0.049,  whereas  from  Table  19  they  are  0.009, 
0,13  and  0.049.  Such  consistency  between  models  that  result 
from  using  different  datasets  adds  to  the  strength  of  our 
findings . 

In  Table  20  we  see  the  slight  loss  in  R2  from  0.414  (Table 
19)  to  0.409  that  occurs  when  the  mean  (average  of  pre  &  post 
run)  rebreathe  carbon  monoxide  variable  (MEANRBCO)  replaces 
mean  carbon  monoxide  (MEANCO)  in  the  model.  Table  21  shows 
the  model  that  includes  respirable  particulate  concentration 
measured  by  the  Gage  portable  sampler  and  ozone  concentration 
measured  by  the  Ministry  of  the  Environment  at  their 
Breadalbane  station.  Again  we  see  that  this  model  is  almost 
identical  in  statistical  power  to  the  other  two  models 
(Tables  19  and  20).  It  is  not  surprising  that  ozone  might 
replace  temperature  in  the  model  because  of  the  high 
correlation  of  0.65  (not  reported  in  any  Table)  that  we  found 
between  these  two  variables.  However,  the  correlation 
coefficient  between  CO  and  respirable  particulates  was  found 
to  be  only  0.14,  and  therefore  its  inclusion  in  the  model  has 
to  do  with  the  joint  effect  that  it  and  ozone  has  on  the 
variable  POLLUTE. 


38 
A  further  regression  analysis  which  is  not  reported  here 
was  performed  between  POLLUTE  and  the  four  variables  CO,  N02, 
temperature  and  ozone.  In  this  model,  temperature  remained 
statistically  significant,  while  ozone  did  not.  This 
suggests  that  part  of  the  original  significant  relationship 
between  ozone  and  POLLUTE  was  due  to  the  high  correlation 
between  ozone  and  temperature,  and  was  not  only  a  direct 
relationship  between  ozone  and  POLLUTE, 

SLOPES  ANALYSIS 

Because  of  the  importance  of  the  findings  reported  for  the 
pollution  rating  scale,  further  analyses  were  conducted  to 
determine  if  the  relationships  that  were  uncovered  by 
multiple  regression  could  be  confirmed  by  another  approach. 
This  approach  involved  the  calculation  of  a  regression  slope 
for  each  individual,  relating  the  pollution  rating  scale 
(POLLUTE)  and  a  particular  air  pollutant.  If  there  were  no 
relationship  between  the  pollution  rating  scale  and  the  air 
pollutant,  then  we  would  expect  half  of  the  slopes  to  be 
positive  and  half  negative.  However,  if  there  is  a  positive 
relationship  between  the  pollution  rating  scale  and  the  air 
pollutant,  then  we  would  expect  a  preponderance  of  positive 
slopes.  In  other  words,  with  a  positive  slope,  when  the  air 
pollutant  concentration  is  high,  the  subjective  report  of  air 
pollution  severity  (POLLUTE)  is  also  high. 

In  Table  22  we  see  that  69%  of  the  slopes  between  POLLUTE 


39 


and  mean  N02  are  positive,  which  is  significantly  (p=0.004) 
more  than  the  1:1  split  anticipated  from  the  null  hypothesis. 
The  mean  slope  is  0.021,  which  means  that  for  each  unit 
( microgram/m3)  change  in  N02  there  would  be  expected  a  0.021 
change  in  the  POLLUTE  variable.  The  median  slope  is  0.011. 
These  values  should  be  compared  to  the  regression  coefficient 
of  0.009  reported  in  Table  19.  Similar  to  the  findings  of 
Table  22,  68*  of  the  slopes  for  POLLUTE  against  mean  CO 
(Table  23)  were  positive,  with  a  mean  slope  of  0.10  and  a 
median  slope  of  0.075.  For  the  relationship  between  POLLUTE 
and  temperature,  shown  in  Table  24,  the  mean  slope  was  0.058 
and  the  median  slope  was  0.044.  Summarizing  Tables  22-24, 
the  slopes  relating  the  subjective  report  of  pollution  rating 
with  N02,  CO  and  temperature,  were  positive  in  68-69%  of  the 
runners,  and  the  p  values  for  the  null  hypothesis  that  the 
slopes  were  zero,  ranged  from  0.004  to  0.006. 

The  mean  slope  for  the  relationship  between  rebreathe  CO 
measured  at  the  end  of  the  run  (RBC0P0ST)  and  mean  CO  is  0.88 
and  the  median  slope  is  0.71  (Table  25).  Eighty-four  percent 
(48/57)  of  the  runners  had  a  positive  slope,  and  the  p  value 
for  the  sign  test  was  highly  significant  (p  <  0.0001).  The 
mean  slope  for  the  relationship  between  RBC0P0ST  and  mean  N02 
is  0.031,  and  the  median  is  0.033  (Table  26).  Again,  as 
shown  in  Table  25,  a  high  proportion  of  runners  had  positive 
slopes  (74%),  and  the  p  value  for  the  sign  test  was  0.0006. 


40 


COMPARISON  OF  PORTABLE  SAMPLERS  WITH  MOE  SAMPLERS 

The  important  relationship  between  POLLUTE  and  the  three 
variables  N02 ,  CO  and  temperature  was  uncovered  by  regression 
analysis  and  confirmed  by  a  slopes  analysis.  The  effect  of 
replacing  the  estimates  of  CO  and  N02  obtained  by  using  the 
Gage  portable  samplers  by  the  corresponding  estimates 
obtained  from  the  Breadalbane  MOE  station  was  investigated. 
In  turn,  one  or  another  or  both  of  the  portable  sampler 
estimates  of  CO  and  N02  were  replaced  in  the  multiple 
regression  analysis  by  their  MOE  counterparts,  and  the 
results  given  in  Table  27.  The  regression  coefficient 
between  the  Gage  CO  and  POLLUTE  is  0.1235,  with  a  p  value  of 
0.0071  (Model  A).  When  the  CO  estimate  obtained  from  the 
Gage  portable  sampler  was  replaced  by  the  MOE-Breadalbane 
estimate,  the  regression  coefficient  was  -0.084,  with  a  p 
value  of  0.31  (Model  C).  Therefore,  the  statistically 
significant  positive  relationship  between  Gage  CO  and  POLLUTE 
became  negative  and  nonsignificant  when  the  Gage  CO  was 
replaced  by  the  Breadalbane  -  CO.  In  Model  A,  the 
significant  positive  relationship  between  POLLUTE  and  the 
Gage  N02  (p=0.0017)  was  weakened  by  the  replacement  of  the 
portable  sample  estimate  of  N02  by  the  MOE  estimate  (p=0.52) 
in  Model  B.  Interestingly,  this  weakening  was  less  (p=0.021) 
if  the  MOE  estimate  of  CO  was  allowed  to  remain  in  the  model 
(Model  D) . 


41 


Discussion 

On  the  majority  of  the  75  training  runs,  recorded 
pollutant  levels  including  N02 ,  S02  and  CO  were  reasonably 
low,  with  Gage  and  MOE-Breadalbane  maxima  being  17-41%  of  the 
1-hr  average  Ontario  Ambient  Air  Quality  Criteria.  The  MOE- 
Evans  site  showed  higher  maximum  levels  for  these  three 
pollutants,  but  due  to  a  preponderance  of  missing  values, 
this  data  was  not  used  in  the  regression  analyses.  The 
concentrations  measured  using  our  sampling  systems  and  those 
used  by  the  MOE ,  both  at  the  Breadalbane  site,  were  the  same, 
giving  us  confidence  in  our  data  from  the  Gage  mobile 
samplers.  The  results  show  that  CO  and  RSP  at  the  fixed  MOE 
sites  (Breadalbane  and  Evans)  are  lower  than  the  mobile 
"personal"  samplers,  and  that  the  6  mile  mobile  sampler 
concentrations  are  higher  than  the  10  mile  concentrations. 
Therefore,  using  the  MOE  values  would  underestimate  the 
runners  "personal"  exposure.  Also,  the  6  mile  and  10  mile 
runners  are  exposed  to  different  concentrations.  These 
findings  illustrate  the  importance  of  using  "personal" 
sampling  when  assessing  exposure  of  mobile  subjects.  A 
possible  explanation  for  the  difference  in  6  and  10  mile 
levels  is  that  the  10  mile  route  extended  out  along  the 
Martin-Goodman  bicycle/ jogging  trail,  between  Lake  Ontario 
and  Lakeshore  Boulevard.  Traffic  is  lighter  and  less 
congested  there  compared  to  the  downtown  core,  also  it  is 
more  open  (parkland  with  few  buildings)  and  on-shore  breezes 


42 
may  "clean"  the  area.  Furthermore,  the  10  mile  group  returns 
to  the  downtown  core  approximately  1/2  hour  later  than  the  6 
mile  group,  when  rush  hour  traffic  is  reduced  and  pollution 
concentrations  are  lower,  as  suggested  by  lower  CO 
concentrations  that  were  recorded  on  the  return  route. 
Therefore,  the  "6  mile  runners",  who  spend  more  of  their  time 
in  the  downtown  core  compared  to  the  10  mile  group,  may  be 
exposed  to  higher  pollution  concentrations,  although  the 
actual  pollutant  dose  or  burden  may  be  similar  for  the  2 
groups,  as  the  10  mile  group  is  exposed  for  a  longer  time. 

The  percentage  of  days  on  which  runners  reported  symptoms 
whose  severity  was  at  least  moderate  (rating  of  3)  was  1935 
for  sore/dry  throat,  123s  for  cough,  36*  for  sputum/phlegm, 
33*  for  stuffy  nose,  37*  for  nasal  discharge  and  17*  for  eye 
irritation.  With  the  exception  of  eye  irritation,  the 
frequency  of  a  reported  severity  rating  of  moderate  or 
greater,  for  these  five  symptoms,  was  similar  or  higher  in 
this  study  of  runners,  compared  to  a  chamber  study  (35),  in 
which  24  healthy  nonsmokers  were  exposed  to  a  "moderate" 
level  of  "second  hand"  cigarette  smoke  (mean  level  of  17  ppm 
CO).  Because  the  present  study  population  consisted  of  a 
group  of  runners  who  were  questioned  about  their  symptoms 
immediately  after  their  run,  it  is  not  surprising  that  there 
was  a  high  percentage  of  days  on  which  at  least  a  moderate 
level  of  breathing  fatigue  and  leg  fatigue  was  reported,  the 


4  3 


respective  values  being  61%  and  67%. 

The  relationship  observed  between  the  symptom  variables 
and  the  subjective  rating  of  pollution  were  the  strongest  and 
most  significant.  Furthermore,  it  was  found  that  the 
subjective  rating  of  pollution  was  jointly  related  to 
breathing  fatigue,  eye  irritation  and  sore/dry  throat, 
suggesting  that  the  subjects'  symptom  reporting  was  related 
to  their  perceptions  of  the  pollution  levels  they  were 
exposed  to . 

Statistical  methods  could  have  been  employed  to  derive  a 
symptom  complex  comprised  of  some  of  the  8  symptoms.  The 
reasoning  for  such  a  symptom  complex  is  that  exposure  to 
pollutant(s)  among  a  group  of  individuals  may  provoke  varied 
responses.  That  is,  pollution  may  affect  the  eye  of  one 
individual,  but  in  another  individual  may  affect  the  nose  or 
breathing.  To  the  extent  that  this  supposition  is  true,  it 
may  explain  why  the  relationships  observed  between  the 
exposure  variables  and  the  individual  symptom  variables  are 
neither  consistent  nor  all  that  strong,  with  the  exception  of 
temperature  and  humidity.  The  construction  of  such  a  symptom 
complex  would  have  to  take  account  of  the  fact  that  a 
variable  such  as  temperature  had  a  positive  relationship  with 
some  symptom  variables  and  a  negative  relationship  with 
others.    A  stepwise  multiple  linear  regression  between  the 


44 


pollution  rating  and  the  other  8  symptom  variables  (not 
reported),  revealed  a  significant  relationship  with  the 
symptoms  breathing  fatigue,  eye  irritation  and  dry/sore 
throat.  That  is,  the  pollution  rating  scale  may  be  an 
integrator  of  many  different  symptoms.  Therefore,  it  seems 
that  the  pollution  rating  scale  achieves  that  which  a  symptom 
complex  is  intended  to  do.  For  example,  the  effect  of  carbon 
monoxide,  which  shows  up  weakly  for  the  individual  symptoms 
cough,  stuffy  nose  and  eye  irritation  is  much  stronger  with 
the  pollution  rating  scale.  The  pollutant  N02  is  only  weakly 
related  to  stuffy  nose  and  eye  irritation,  but  is  more 
strongly  related  to  the  pollution  rating  scale.  The  positive 
relationship  between  mean  temperature  and  the  pollution 
rating  scale  appears  to  capture  the  similar  relationships 
between  temperature  and  each  of  the  symptoms  breathing 
fatigue  and  leg  fatigue. 

The  negative  relationships  of  the  symptoms  with  relative 
humidity  and  temperature  are  not  surprising.  Temperature 
(dry  bulb)  and  relative  humidity  (RH)  are  interrelated  and 
effects  of  RH  are  really  temperature  effects.  Relative 
humidity  is  a  measure  of  both  dry  and  wet  bulb  temperature, 
and  specifically,  is  the  percentage  of  moisture  in  the  air 
relative  to  the  amount  it  could  hold  if  saturated  at  the  same 
temperature.  Dry  air  (low  absolute  humidity)  and  low 
temperatures  are  irritants  to  the  respiratory  tract.   If  we 


4f> 


look  at  the  respiratory  and  nasal  symptoms  as  a  response  to 
irritation,  we  would  expect  to  see  throat  irritation 
(sore/dry  throat)  increase  as  both  RH  and  temperature 
decrease.  Similarly,  cough  and  sputum/phlegm  as  responses  to 
irritation  would  increase  as  humidity  and  temperature 
decrease.  However,  cough  also  increases  with  very  high 
humidity,  as  shown  in  studies  with  inhalation  of  hypotonic 
saline.  In  hospitals,  patients  are  given  humidified  air  to 
loosen  their  sputum.  Sputum  decreases  and  becomes  thicker 
with  hot  dry  air. 

Cold  increases  nasal  stuffiness  because  of  vasodilation, 
and  if  it  is  hot,  there  is  vasoconstriction  and  a  decreased 
sensation  of  nasal  stuffiness.  Cole  et  al .  (42)  observed  in 
resting  subjects  that  there  was  an  increase  in  nasal 
stuffiness  with  decreased  temperature.  However,  they  found 
that  nasal  stuffiness  decreased  with  exercise,  overriding  the 
temperature  effect.  Nasal  discharge  probably  reflects  the 
same  thing  as  nasal  stuffiness,  that  is,  the  irritation 
effect  of  low  temperature  causes  the  nose  to  run. 

The  effects  of  relative  humidity  are  really  temperature 
effects,  such  that  the  body  responds  in  order  to  lower 
temperature  by  evaporating  water,  as  water  has  the  highest 
latent  heat  of  evaporation  and  this  mechanism  acts  to  keep 
core  temperature  stable,  at  the  equilibrium  or  "set  point". 
This  mechanism  helps  explain  the  positive  relationships 
between  breathing  fatigue  and  leg  fatigue  with  temperature. 


46 


With  respect  to  breathing  fatigue,  as  temperature  increases, 
the  work  of  breathing  increases.  Leg  fatigue  is  most  likely 
a  response  to  breathing  fatigue  and  high  temperature,  related 
to  lactic  acid  accumulation  caused  by  an  oxygen  debt  due  to 
anaerobic  respiration.  Fatigue  comes  from  diversion  of  blood 
flow  to  the  skin. 

Therefore,  the  findings  of  this  study,  related  to  symptom 
reports,  can  partially  be  explained  by  both  the  effects  of 
exercise  and  the  interactive  effects  of  temperature  and 
relative  humidity. 

The  stepwise  regression  procedures  identified  many 
significant  relationships  that  were  not  followed  up  in  detail 
in  this  report.  However,  the  negative  relationship  between 
the  post  run  FEF75  and  the  Gage  sampled  N02  was  strongly 
statistically  significant.  This  relationship  was  confirmed 
by  the  slopes  analysis  (not  reported).  However,  a  weakly 
significant  positive  relationship  was  found  between  the  post 
run  FEF75  and  S02  (p=0.04,  Table  11).  We  have  cautioned  that 
a  regression  coefficient  with  a  p  value  greater  than  0.01 
should  not  be  taken  too  seriously.  Furthermore,  as  shown  in 
Table  12,  when  the  analysis  was  repeated  on  a  slightly 
different  dataset,  the  p  value  associated  with  the  regression 
coefficient  for  S02  increased  to  0.12,  whereas  the  originally 
strong  negative  relationship  with  N02  remained.  This 
provided  Justification  for  our  original  position  on  data 


47 


interpretation.  Therefore,      although     the     negative 

relationship  between  N02  and  FEF75  appears  to  be  real,  it 
stands  alone  among  the  relationships  between  pulmonary 
function  and  pollutants  that  make  biological  sense.  The  post 
run  FEF75  was  also  weakly  related  to  temperature.  This 
relationship  was  much  weaker  than  that  found  between 
temperature   and    the   symptom   variables. 

The  finding  that  symptom  severity  was  related  to 
pollution  concentration,  but  that,  in  general,  measures  of 
pulmonary  function  were  not,  is  consistent  with  the  findings 
of  Dockery  et  al  (43).  In  this  study,  increases  in 
respiratory  symptom  reporting  were  associated  with  annual 
mean  particulates,  but  no  relationship  between  pulmonary 
function  and  pollution  concentration  was  found.  They 
concluded  that  air  pollution  exposure  may  increase 
respiratory  symptom  rates  with  no  resulting  permanent 
compromise    in   lung    function. 

The  results  of  the  present  study  suggest  that  symptom 
reporting  may  be  a  more  sensitive  or  subtle  indicator  of 
effects  of  air  pollutants  than  pulmonary  function,  and  that 
the  subjects'  perception  of  pollution  levels  may  be  an 
integrator    of    the    symptom    complex    that    results    from    exposure. 

The    observed    relationship    between     the    subjective    rating 


48 
of  pollution  and  the  local  concentrations  of  N02  and  CO, 
suggests  that  the  pollution  rating  is  a  reflection  of,  or  is 
influenced  by,  local  car  exhaust  emissions.  While  N02  and 
CO,  by  themselves,  may  not  cause  the  symptoms,  they  may  be 
indicators  of  car  exhaust  emissions,  and  the  actual  irritant 
response  may  be  to  local  car  exhaust  emissions  that  we  are 
not  measuring  locally  (with  the  personal  samplers). 
Similarly,  peak  CO  concentration  may  be  an  indicator  of 
"pockets"  of  car  exhaust  emissions,  and  these  would  not 
likely  be  picked  up  by  remote,  fixed-site  MOE  monitoring. 
Therefore,  the  fact  that  relationships  are  strongest  and  most 
consistent  with  the  mobile  or  "personal"  concentrations,  and 
variably,  inconsistently,  or  not  at  all  related  to  the  levels 
measured  at  the  fixed  remote  sites,  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  measuring  exposure  as  close  to  the  subjects  as  possible. 
This  is  consistent  with  previous  studies  of  personal 
exposure.  Similarly,  Bates  &  Sizto  (44-46)  found  that  daily 
S04  data  from  one  central  monitoring  site  were  not  correlated 
with  respiratory  admissions,  but  that  using  the  data  from  17 
stations  throughout  the  region  were. 

For  each  runner,  the  dose  of  air  pollutant  that  was 
inhaled  would  be  a  product  of  the  air  pollutant  concentration 
over  the  run,  the  ventilation  rate  during  the  run  and  the 
time  taken  to  complete  the  run. 

It  was  not  possible  to  measure  the  ventilation  rate  during 


49 


the  run.  and  instead,  each  runner  measured  his/her  heart  rate 

at  the  mid-point  of  the  run.   On  a  separate  occasion,  the  log 

linear  relationship  between  a  runner's  ventilation  rate  and 

heart  rate  was  determined  from  measurements  taken  while  the 

runner  was  on  a  treadmill.   With  these  laboratory  data,  one 

could  estimate  ventilation  rate  from  heart  rate,  during 

training  runs.   Therefore  the  DOSE  is  given  by 

DOSE   =  POLLUTANT     x      RUN  (min)  x   ESTIMATE  OF  (Litres/min) 
CONCENTRATION    TIME  VENTILATION 

When  the  calculated  dose  of  Gage  N02 ,  CO,  and  respirable 

particulates,  and  MOE-B reada 1  bane  ozone  replaced  the 

respective  individual  concentrations  of  Gage  N02,  CO, 

respirable  particulates,  and  MOE-Breadalbane  ozone  in  the 

regression  models  with  pollution  rating,  reported  in  Tables 

19,  20  and  21,  the  level  of  statistical  significance  was 

lowered  (the  p  value  increased).    Therefore,  replacing 

concentration  by  dose  in  no  instance  improved  the  regression 

model  for  the  response  variable  pollution  rating.   This  could 

be  due  to  the  assessment  of  heart  rate,  which  has  its  own 

error  associated  with  it,  and  in  fact,  is  also  temperature 

sensitive.   It  could  be  due  to  the  estimation  of  ventilation 

rate  from  a  predictive  model  that  was  created  with  data  far 

removed  in  time  from  many  of  the  run  days  on  which  it  was 

used.   Furthermore,  the  predictive  model  does  not  take  into 

account  the  influence  of  temperature,  humidity  or  wind, 

factors  that  are  highly  variable  in  the  outdoor  environment, 

in  comparison  to  the  controlled  laboratory  conditions.   The 


50 


run  time  itself  is  probably  quite  accurately  measured,  and 
probably  is  not  responsible  for  the  inability  for  dose  to 
improve  the  regression  models. 


Rebreathe  CO  also  provides  an  estimate  of  dose,  that  is, 
inhaled  CO  bound  to  the  haemoglobin.  However,  when  mean 
rebreathe  CO  replaces  mean  CO  in  the  regression  model  with 
pollution  rating  as  the  response  variable,  not  only  does  the 
R2  go  down  slightly,  the  p  value  drops  from  0.004  to  0.046, 
i.e.  not  statistically  significant  by  our  criteria.  One 
might  think  that  this  should  not  be  the  case,  because  the 
mean  rebreathe  CO  estimates  the  concentration  of  CO  in  the 
runner's  blood,  and  therefore  should  be  a  more  accurate 
indicator  of  dose  than  the  local  environmental  CO 
concentration  measured  by  the  Gage  monitor  placed  on  the 
bicycles.  However,  the  air  concentration  of  CO,  because  of 
its  correlation  with  other  air  pollutants,  includes  the 
effect  of  other  air  pollutants,  and  therefore  for  that  reason 
might  be  expected  to  be  more  strongly  related  to  the 
pollution  rating  scale.  The  lack  of  resolution  of  mean 
rebreathe  CO  is  not  surprising,  given  that  it  includes  the 
prerun  rebreathe  CO,  and  therefore  depends  on  the  subjects' 
exposures  to  CO  previous  to  the  run,  such  as  during  the  day 
or  in  transit.  The  half-life  for  CO  elimination  may  range 
from  2  hr  to  6.5  hr  in  resting  subjects.   Thus  the  residual 


51 


effects  of  the  prerun  CO  exposure  will  influence  both  the  pre 
and  post  run  rebreathe  CO.  However,  such  a  comparison 
between  the  size  of  the  effect  of  local  CO  and  rebreathe  CO 
would  only  be  appropriate  if  one  were  certain  that  the  two 
estimates  of  CO,  in  the  blood  and  in  the  air,  were  equally 
reliable.  Furthermore,  much  of  this  discussion  is  academic 
because  as  shown  in  Tables  19  and  20,  the  difference  in  the 
statistical  power  of  the  models  is  extremely  small. 

The  finding  that  the  pollution  rating  is  related  to  ozone 
and  particulate  exposure  is  consistent  with  the  findings  of 
Bates  and  Sizto  (44-46),  who  observed  increased  hospital 
admissions  with  ozone  and  S04,  and  Dockery  et  al  (43),  who 
observed  increased  symptomatology  with  particulates.  The 
fact  that  the  current  study  could  not  see  consistent 
relationships  with  S04  may  relate  to  the  fact  that  using  one 
station  to  assess  S04  exposure  was  not  appropriate,  as  shown 
by  the  Bates'  study  which  used  17  stations  through  the  region 
to  uncover  the  relationships. 

In  summary,  the  results  suggest  that  1)  symptoms  and 
subjective  rating  of  severity  of  pollution  are  related  to 
pollution  levels,  2)  pulmonary  function  for  the  most  part  is 
not  affected  or  minimally  affected  by  the  exposures 
encountered  in  this  study,  3)  the  strongest  relationships  are 
seen  using  levels  measured  by  the  mobile  personal  samplers. 


52 


REFERENCES 

1.  McCaf ferty,  W.B.  Air  pollution  and  athletic 
performance.       Springfield,     III:    C.C.    Thomas,     1981. 

2.  Folinsbee,  L.  Effects  of  air  pollutants.  In:  Current 
Therapy  in  Sports  Medicine.  Ed.  P.  Welsh  &  R.J. 
Shephard.       Burlington:    B.    Decker,     1985. 

3.  Shephard,  R.J.  Carbon  monoxide  -  the  silent  killer. 
Springfield,     III:    C.C.    Thomas,     1983. 

4.  Shephard,  R.J.  Athletic  performance  and  air  pollution. 
Can.    Med.    Assoc.    J.       131:105-109,    1984. 

5.  Nicholson,  J. P.  &  Case,  D.P.  Carboxyhemoglobin  levels 
in  New  York  City  Runners.  Phys .  Sports.  Med.  11:135- 
138,     1983. 

6.  Kjeldsen,  K.,  Thomas,  H.K.  &  Astrup,  P.  Effects  of 
carbon  monoxide  on  myocardium:  ultrastructural  changes 
in  rabbits  after  moderate,  chronic  exposure.  Circ. 
Res.     34:339-48,     1974. 

7.  Astrup,  P.,  Kjeldsen,  K.  &  Wanstrup,  J.  Enhancing 
influence  of  carbon  monoxide  on  the  development  of 
atheromatosis  in  cholesterol-fed  rabbits.  J. 
Atheroscleros.    Res.    7:343-354,     1967. 

8.  Barnard,  R.J.  &  Weber,  J.S.  Carbon  monoxide:  a  hazard 
to  firefighters.  Arch.  Environ.  Health  34:255-257, 
1979. 

9.  Ayres  ,  S.M.,  Evans,  R.,  LIcht,  D.,  et  al  .  Health 
effects  of  exposure  to  high  concentrations  of 
automotive  emissions:  study  in  bridge  and  tunnel 
workers  in  New  York  City.  Arch.  Environ.  Health 
27:168-178,     1973. 

10.  Cohen,  S.I.,  Dorion,  G.,  Goldsmith,  J.R.,  et  al. 
Carbon  monoxide  uptake  by  inspectors  at  a  United 
States-Mexico  border  station.  Arch.  Environ.  Health 
22:47-54,     1971. 

11.  Aronow,  W.S.  &  Isbell,  M.W.  Carbon  monoxide  effect  on 
exercise-induced  angina  factors.  Ann.  Intern.  Med. 
79:392-5,     1973. 

12.  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency.  Bureau  of 
Science  and  Technology.  Data  Report/Automotive  Network 
1977.       New   York   City,    EPA,     1977,    pp.     30-31. 


53 


13.  Godin,  G.,  Wright,  G.  &  Shephard,  R.J.  Urban  exposure 
to  carbon  monoxide.  Arch.  Environ.  Health  25:305-313, 
1972. 

14.  Silverman,  F.,  Folinsbee,  L.J.,  Barnard,  J.  &  Shephard, 
R.J.  Pulmonary  function  changes  in  ozone.  Interaction 
of  concentration  and  ventilation.  J.  Appl .  Physiol. 
41:859,  1976. 

15.  Folinsbee,  L.J.,  Silverman,  F.,  Shephard,  R.J. 
Exercise  responses  following  ozone  exposure.  J.  Appl. 
Physiol.   38:996,  1975. 

16.  Folinsbee,  L.J.,  Silverman,  F.,  Shephard,  R.J. 
Decrease  of  maximum  work  performance  following  ozone 
exposure.  J.  Appl.  Physiol:  Respirat.  Environ. 
Exercise  Physiol.   42:531,  1977. 

17.  Bedi,  J.F.,  Folinsbee,  L.J.,  Horvath,  S.M.  Pulmonary 
function  changes  of  elite  cyclists  following  a  1-hour 
exposure  to  0.20  ppm  ozone  during  heavy  exercise.  Med. 
Sci.  Sports  Exercise  15:112,  1973  (Abstract). 

18.  Adams,  W.C.,  Scheledgle,  E.S.  Ozone  and  high 
ventilation  effects  on  pulmonary  function  and  endurance 
performance.  J.  Appl.  Physiol.:  Respirat.  Environ. 
Exercise  Physiol.  55:805,  1983. 

19.  Silverman,  F.,  Corey,  P.,  Mintz,  S.,  Olver,  P.,  Hosein, 
R.  A  study  of  effects  of  ambient  urban  air  pollution 
using  personal  samplers;  a  preliminary  report. 
Environment  International  8:311,  1983. 

20.  Shephard,  R.J.  Tographic  and  meteorological  factors 
influencing  air  pollution  in  Cincinnati.  A.M. A.  Arch. 
Ind.  Hlth  19:44,  1959. 

21.  Wright,  G.R.,  Jewczyk,  S.,  Onrot ,  J.,  et  al .  Carbon 
monoxide  in  the  urban  atmosphere.  Arch.  Environ. 
Health  30: 123 ,  1975 . 

22.  Silverman,  F.,  Shephard,  R.J.,  Folinsbee,  L.J.  Effect 
of  physical  activity  on  lung  responses  to  acute  ozone 
exposure.  Proc .  4th  International  Clean  Air  Congress, 
Tokyo,  Japan,  May  15-20,  1977,  p.  15-19. 

23.  Sheppard,  D.,  Saisho,  A.,  Nadel ,  J. A.,  Bonshey,  H.A. 
Exercise  increases  sulfur  dioxide-induced  broncho- 
constriction  in  asthmatic  subjects.    Am.  Rev.  Resp. 
Dis.  123:486,  1981. 

24.  Niinimaa,  V.,  Cole,  P.,  Mintz,  S.,  Shephard,  R.J.   The 


54 


switching  point  from  nasal  to  oronasal  breathing. 
Respir.  Physiol.  42:61,  1980. 

25.  Mintz,  S.,  Hosein,  H.R.,  Batten,  B.,  Silverman,  F.  A 
personal  sampler  for  three  respiratory  irritants. 
JAPCA  32:1068,  1982. 

26.  Silverman,  F.,  Mintz,  S.,  Olver,  P.,  Corey,  P.,  Hosein, 
H.R.  et  al.  Human  exposure  to  S02  ,  N02  and  suspended 
particulate  matter  in  Toronto,  Canada.  Published  under 
the  joint  sponsorship  of  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme  and  the  World  Health  Organization,  Geneva, 
EFP/82.38,  1982. 

27.  Silverman,  F.,  Mintz,  S.,  Hosein,  R.,  Corey,  P.  To 
investigate  and  report  on  the  health  effects  of  ambient 
air  pollution  on  asthmatics.  Report  submitted  to 
Health  and  Welfare  Canada,  Environmental  Health 
Directorate,  December  1982. 

28.  Silverman,  F.,  Pengelly,  L.D.,  Mintz,  S.  ,  Kerigan, 
A.T.,  Hosein,  H.R.,  Corey,  P.,  Goldsmith,  C.H.  Exposure 
estimates  in  assessing  health  effects  of  air  pollution. 
Environ.  Monitoring  &  Assessment  2:233,  1982. 

29.  Fletcher,  R.A.  A  review  of  personal/portable  monitors 
and  samplers  for  airborne  particles.  JAPCA  34:1014, 
1984  . 

30.  West,  P.W.  &  Gaeke ,  G.C.  Fixation  of  sulphur  dioxide 
as  sul  f  i  tomercurate  III  and  subsequent  colorimetric 
determination.   Anal.  Chem .  28:1816,  1956. 

31.  National  primary  and  secondary  air  quality  standards. 
Federal  Register  36:8186,  1971. 

32.  Mulik,  J.D.,  Fuerst,  R.,  Guyer,  M.,  et  al .  Development 
of  optimization  of  24-hour  manual  methods  for  the 
collection  and  colorimetric  analyses  of  atmospheric 
N02.   Int.  J.  Environ.  Anal.  Chem.  3:333,  1974. 

33.  Henderson,  M.,  &  Apthorp,  G.A.  Rapid  method  for 
estimation  of  carbon  monoxide  in  blood.  Brit.  Med.  J. 
2:1853,  1960. 

34.  Shephard,  R.J.,  Urch,  B.,  Silverman,  F.,  Corey,  P. 
Interaction  of  ozone  and  cigarette  smoke  exposure. 
Environ.  Res.  31:125,  1983. 

35.  Urch,  R.B.  ,  Silverman,  F.,  Corey,  P.,  Shephard,  R.J., 
Cole,  P.,  and  Goldsmith,  L.J.  Does  suggestibility 
modify  acute  reactions  to  passive  cigarette  smoke 


55 


exposure?   Environ.  Res.  47:34-47,  1988. 

36.  American  Thoracic  Society  Statement-Snowbird  Workshop 
on  Standardization  of  Spirometry.  Amer .  Rev.  Resp . 
Dis.  119:831,  1979. 

37.  American  Thoracic  Society  Questionnaire.  Amer.  Rev. 
Resp.  Dis.   118:(part  2),  1978. 

38.  Draper,  H.  and  Smith,  H.  Applied  regression  analysis. 
Second  edition,  John  Wiley  and  Sons,  Toronto,  1988. 

39.  Goldman,  H.I.  and  Becklake,  M.R.  Respiratory  function 
tests.  Normal  values  at  median  altitudes  and  the 
prediction  of  normal  results.  Am.  Rev.  Respir.  Dis. 
79:457467,  1959. 

40.  Morris,  J.F.,  Temple,  W.P.  and  Koski ,  A.  Normal  values 
for  the  ratio  of  one-second  forced  expiratory  volume  to 
forced  vital  capacity.  Am.  Rev.  Resp.  Dis.  108:1000- 
1003,  1973. 

41.  Lapp,  N.L.  and  Hyatt,  R.E.  Some  factors  affecting  the 
relationship  of  maximal  expiratory  flow  to  lung  volume 
in  health  and  disease.   Dis.  Chest  51:475-481,  1967. 

42.  Cole,  P.  Nasal  airflow  resistance,  Chapter  11,  pp. 
391-414,  and  Modification  of  inspired  air.  Chapter  12, 
pp.  415-445.  In:  "Respiratory  Function  of  the  Upper 
Airway".  Ed:  O.P.  Mathew  &  G.  Sant ■ Ambrogio .  Marcel 
Dekker,  Inc.,  New  York,  1988. 

43.  Dockery,  D.W.,  Speizer,  F.E.,  Strain,  D.O.,  Ware, 
J  .  H  .  ,  Speng  1  er  J.D.  and  Ferris,  B.G.  Effects  of 
Inhalable  Particles  on  Respiratory  Health  of  Children. 
Am.  Rev.  Respir.  Dis.  139(3):  584-594,  1989. 

44.  Bates,  D.V.  and  Sizto,  R.    Relationship  between  air 
pollutant  levels  and  hospitable  admissions  in  southern 
Ontario.  Can.  J.  Public  Health  74:117-122,  1983. 

45.  Bates,  D.V.  and  Sizto,  R.   Air  pollution  and  hospital 
admissions  in  soutern  Ontario:  the  acid  summer  haze 
effect.   Environmental  Research   43:317-331,  1987. 

46.  Bates,  D.V.  and  Sizto,  R.   The  Ontario  air  pollution 
study:   Identification  of  the  causative  agent. 
Environmental  Health  Perspectives  79:69-72,  1989. 


56 


TABLE  1A 
NUMBER  OF  REPEAT  HEALTH  TESTS  ON  RUNNERS 


No.  of  Repeat     No.  of  Runners 
Tests 

Cummulative 
No.  of 
Runners 

No.  of 

Test-Sets 

14  and  over        3  3 

33 

509 

13                   2 

35 

26 

12                   3 

38 

36 

11                   1 

39 

11 

10                   2 

41 

20 

9                   3 

44 

27 

8                    2 

46 

16 

6                   3 

49 

18 

5                   4 

53 

20 

4                   5 

58 

20 

3                   1 

59 

3 

2                  12 

71 

24 

1                  10 

81 

10 

81 

740 

*   Number  of  runners  X  number  of 

repeat  tests. 

5  7 


TABLE  IB 

YEARLY  SUMMARY  OF  HEALTH  TESTING 

FOR  RUNNERS  WITH  TWO  OR  MORE  TESTS 

PLUS  COMPLETE  POLLUTION  DATA 


Year 

No. 

of  Test-Sets 

No. 

of  Weeks  of  Testing 

1986 

129 

18 

1987 

313 

29 

1988 

270 
712 

28 

75 

TABLE  1C 

SUMMARY  OF  RUN  DISTANCE 

FOR  RUNNERS  WITH  TWO  OR  MORE  HEALTH  TESTS 

PLUS  COMPLETE  POLLUTION  DATA 


Distance 

(miles)* 

No. 

of  Runners 

No. 

of 

Test-Sets 

2 

1 

1 

4 

2 

2 

5 

2 

2 

6 

52 

204 

7 

3 

3 

8 

46 

149 

9 

1 

2 

10 

58 

337 

11 

2 

2 

12 

5 

7 

14 

3 

3 

175 


712 


*  Distance  run,  reported  by  runner. 

Note :  Runners  may  not  have  run  the  same  distance  each  week 
There  was  a  total  of  70  runners  {54  male,  16  female) 
who  had  two  or  more  health  tests  plus  complete 
pollution  data. 


58 


TABLE  2A 

MEAN  POLLUTANT  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1987 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  -  6  AND  10  MILE  MOBILE  SAMPLERS, 
GAGE  -  MOE  STATIONARY  SAMPLERS, 
AND  MOE  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 


1987 
(N=14  weeks) 


POLLUTANT 


NO, 
NO, 

NO; 

NO, 
NO. 


(Gage  -  6  mile) 
(Gage  -  10  mile) 
(GAGE  -  Breadalbane) 
(MOE  -  Breadalbane) 
(MOE  -  Evans) 


MEAN  +   SD 


34 
30 
30 
27 
39 


+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


9 
10 
10 
14 
11 


RANGE 


16 
9 

15 
0 

15 


** 

52 
52 
50 
55 
55 


S02  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

S02  (Gage  -10  mile) 

S02  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane) 

S02  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

SO«  (MOE  -  Evans) 


5+7 
6+7 
4+6 

5  +  10 
2+4 


0 

0 
0 
0 
0 


29 
25 

21 
30 
10 


CO  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

CO  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

CO  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

CO  (MOE  -  Evans) 


4.3  +  1.5 
2.7  +  1.6 
1.1  +  1.1 

1.4  +  0.5 


2  .  2 
1.0 
0.0 
1  .0 


7,4 
7.2 
4.0 
2  .0 


RSP  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

RSP  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

RSP  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane) 

SP  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 


104  +  37 

72  +  16 

55  +  22 

69  +  25 


41 
44 
28 
27 


159 

93 

110 

101 


*   Mean  +  standard  deviation. 

**  Range:  lowest  to  highest  level. 

N02  reported  as  parts  per  billion  (ppb) .   The  Ontario  MOE 
Ambient  Air  Quality  Criterion  (AAQC)  for  N02 ,  based  on  a  24-hr 
average  is  200  micrograms/ra3  or  106  ppb  (@  25°C  &    760  mmHg ) , 
and  400  mlcrograms/m3^  (213  ppb)  based  on  a  1-hr  average, 
the  limiting  effect  based  on  health.   The  Ontario  MOE  0.5-hr 
average  Point  of  Impingement  (POI)  standard  for  N02  is  500 
micrograms/m   or  267  ppb. 


59 

TABLE  2A 
( continued ) 

S02  reported  as  ppb .   The  Ontario  MOE  AAQC  for  S02,  based  on  a 
24-hr  average  is  275  micrograms/m3  (105  ppb),  and  690 
micrograms/m3  (264  ppb)  based  on  a  1-hr  average,  the  limiting 
effect  based  on  health  and  vegitation.   The  Ontario  MOE  0.5-hr 
average  POI  standard  for  S02  is  830  micrograms/m   (317  ppb). 
CO  reported  as  parts  per  million  ( ppm )  .   The  Ontario  MOE  AAQC 
for  CO,  based  on  a  8-hr  average  is  15700  micrograms/nr3  (13.7 
ppm)  ,  the  limiting  effect  based  on  high  background  levels  from 
automobiles,  and  36200  micrograms/m3  (31.6  ppm)  based  on  a  1-hr 
average,  the  limiting  effect  based  on  health.   The  Ontario  MOE 
0.5-hr  average  POI  standard  for  CO  is  6000  micrograms/m3  (5.2 

PPm) •  - 

SP  reported  as  micrograms/m°  (also  RSP) .   The  Ontario  MOE  AAQC 

for  suspended  particulate  matter  (d  <  44  microns) ,  based  on  a 

24-hr  average  is  120  micrograms/m3,  the  limiting  effect  based 

on  visibility.   The  Ontario  MOE  0.5-hr  average  POI  standard  for 

SP  is  100  micrograms/m3 . 

Note:   The  AAQC  and  POI  Standards  as  of  May  19,  1989  according 

to  Ontario  Regulation  (O.R.  308) 

Gage-.   Gage  mobile  samplers  (N02  &   S02  -  pump  &    impingers, 
RSP  -  pump  &  filter  with  cyclone) . 

6  mile   -  time-weighted  average  (1730  -  1830  hrs). 
10  mile  -  time-weighted  average  (1730  -  1900  hrs). 
N02  -  (TGS-ANSA  method).    S02  -  (West  &  Gaeke  method). 
RSP  -  Respirable  Suspended  Particulate  Matter) . 
CO   -  Gage  mobile  electrochemical  CO  monitor  (Industrial 
Scientific  model  C0260,  with  pump  model  SP200) . 
6  mile  (average  of  12  sites  out  &   back  along  the  route. 
10  mile  (average  of  18  sites  out  <S  back  along  the  route)  . 
Gage  -  Breadalbane:   Gage  stationary  sampler  at  MOE  site 

( Breadalbane) .   N02 ,  S02  &   RSP  sample  method  as  above, 
time-weighted  average  (1700  -  1900  hrs). 

MOE  -  Breadalbane:   Ontario  Ministry  of  The  Environment  (MOE) 

pollutant  monitoring  network  (Breadalbane  site  -  downtown 
Toronto) . 
MOE  -  Evans:   MOE  (Evans/Arnold  Ave  site  -  Etobicoke). 
N02 ,  S02  &    CO:  Average  of  1800  &    1900  hrs  mean  readings  as  below. 
1800  hrs  -  mean  of  12  5-minute  averages  1700  -  1800  hrs. 
1900  hrs  -  mean  of  12  5-minute  averages  1800  -  1900  hrs. 
As  of  June,  1988,  readings  were  taken  every  2  seconds. 
SP:   Suspended  particulate  matter  (24-hour  average,  HiVol^filter 
sample,  2400  hrs  to  2400  hrs,  reported  as  micrograms/m-3 )  . 


60 


TABLE  2B 

MEAN  POLLUTANT  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1988 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  -  6  AND  10  MILE  MOBILE  SAMPLERS, 
GAGE  -  MOE  STATIONARY  SAMPLERS, 
AND  MOE  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 


1988 

(N=20  weeks) 


POLLUTANT 

N02  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

N02  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

N02  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane; 

N02  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

NO,  (MOE  -  Evans) 


MEAN  +   SD 


RANGE 


37 
32 
29 
29 

41 


+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 


11 
10 
9 
14 
20 


21 

14 
14 

0 
10 


-  60 

-  47 

-  49 

-  50 

-  100 


S02  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

S02  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

S02  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane 

S02  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

S09  (MOE  -  Evans) 


3+5 
3+4 
5       +  8 

8+9 
8       +       13 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 


17 
14 
28 
35 
60 


CO  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

CO  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

CO  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

CO  (MOE  -  Evans) 


2.6  +  1.3 

1.7  +  1.1 
0.7  +  0.5 
1.1  +  1.1 


0.8 
0.4 
0.0 
0.0 


5.0 
3.6 
1.0 
5.0 


RSP  (Gage  -  6  mile)  69  +  37 

RSP  (Gage  -  10  mile)  55  +  16 

RSP  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane)  33  +  13 

SP  (MOE  -  Breadalbane)  68  +  23 


8 
22 

7 
31 


142 
91 
56 

112 


Same  abbreviations  as  Table  2A 


61 


TABLE  2C 

MEAN  POLLUTANT  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1987  and  1988 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  -  6  AND  10  MILE  MOBILE  SAMPLERS, 
GAGE  -  MOE  STATIONARY  SAMPLERS, 
AND  MOE  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 


1987  and  1988 
(N=34  weeks) 


POLLUTANT 


*  * 


N02 
N02 

N02 
N02 
NO., 


(Gage  -  6  mile) 
(Gage  -  10  mile) 
(GAGE  -  Breadalbane ) 
(MOE  -  Breadalbane) 
(MOE  -  Evans) 


S02  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

S02  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

S02  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane) 

S02  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

S02  (MOE  -  Evans) 

CO  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

CO  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

CO  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 

CO  (MOE  -  Evans) 

RSP  (Gage  -  6  mile) 

RSP  (Gage  -  10  mile) 

RSP  (GAGE  -  Breadalbane) 

SP  (MOE  -  Breadalbane) 


MEAN 

+ 

SD 

R 

ANG 

IB 

36 

+ 

10 

16 

- 

60 

31 

+ 

10 

9 

- 

52 

29 

+ 

9 

14 

- 

50 

28 

+ 

14 

0 

- 

55 

40 

+ 

17 

10 

- 

100 

4 

+ 

6 

0 

- 

29 

4 

+ 

5 

0 

- 

25 

5 

+ 

8 

0 

- 

28 

6 

+ 

10 

0 

- 

35 

5 

+ 

11 

0 

- 

60 

3.3 

+ 

1  .6 

0.  8 

- 

7.4 

2.1 

+ 

1  .4 

0.4 

- 

7.2 

0.9 

+ 

0.8 

0.0 

- 

4  .0 

1.2 

+ 

0.9 

0.0 

- 

5.0 

84 

f 

40 

8 

- 

159 

62 

+ 

18 

22 

- 

93 

42 

+ 

20 

7 

- 

110 

69 

+ 

23 

27 

— 

112 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  2A 


62 

TABLE  3A 

MEAN  N02  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1986  -1988 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  -  6  AND  10  MILE  MOBILE  SAMPLERS, 
GAGE  -  MOE  STATIONARY  SAMPLERS, 
AND  MOE  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 


N02_ippbj 

SITE  WEEKS  MEAN    +       SD  RANGE 


(a)  Gage    (6    mile)  55  36      ±11  16  -      69 

(b)  Gage    (10   mile)  70  33+14  6  -      78 

(c)  Gage    -    Breadalbane  65  29+14  2  87 

(d)  B-MOE    (1800    hrs)  73  29+13  0  -       70 

(e)  B-MOE    (1900    hrs)  72  30+15  0  -      70 

(f)  B-MOE    (mean   of    d    +    e)  73  29+14  0  -      70 

(g)  E-MOE  (1800  hrs)  74  37  +27  10  -  210 
(h)  E-MOE  (1900  hrs)  73  40+26  0  -  210 
(i)  E-MOE    (mean    of    g    +    h)  74  38+26  5  -    210 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  2A. 

B-MOE:  Breadalbane  MOE  site. 

E-MOE:  Evans  Ave.  MOE  site. 

1800  hrs  -  mean  of  12  5-minute  averages  1700  -  1800  hrs. 

1900  hrs  -  mean  of  12  5-minute  averages  1800  -  1900  hrs. 

As  of  June,  1988  readings  were  taken  every  2  seconds. 


63 


TABLE  3B 

MEAN  S02  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1986  -1988 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  -  6  AND  10  MILE  MOBILE  SAMPLERS, 
GAGE  -  MOE  STATIONARY  SAMPLERS, 
AND  MOE  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 


.S02_4gpbj 


SITE  WEEKS 

(a)  Gage  (6  mile)  55 

(b)  Gage  (10  mile)  71 

(c)  Gage  -  Breadalbane       64 

(d)  B-MOE  (1800  hrs)         74 

(e)  B-MOE  (1900  hrs)         72 

(f)  B-MOE  (mean  of  d  +  e)    74 

(g)  E-MOE  (1800  hrs)  71 
(h)  E-MOE  (1900  hrs)  71 
(i)  E-MOE  (mean  of  g  +  h)    72 


MEAN 

+ 

SD 

6 

+ 

8 

7 

+ 

8 

4 

+ 

7 

4 

+ 

10 

4 

+ 

8 

4 

+ 

8 

5 

+ 

16 

6 

+ 

16 

6 

+ 

16 

RANGE 


0 

-   37 

0 

-   44 

0 

-   28 

0 

-   50 

0 

-   40 

0 

-   35 

0 

-  120 

0 

-  120 

0 

-  120 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  2A,  3A 


64 

TABLE  3C 

MEAN  CO  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1986  -1988 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  -  6  AND  10  MILE  MOBILE  SAMPLERS, 
AND  MOE  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 


SITE 

(a)  Gage  (6  mile) 

( b)  Gage  (10  mile ) 

(c)  B-MOE  (1800  hrs) 

(d)  B-MOE  (1900  hrs) 

(e)  B-MOE  (mean  of  c  +  d) 

( f )  E-MOE  (  1800  hrs) 

(g)  E-MOE  (1900  hrs) 
(h)  E-MOE  (mean  of  f  +  g) 

Gage:  Gage  mobile  electrochemical  CO  monitor  (Industrial 
Scientific  model  C0260,  with  pump  model  SP200). 
6  mile  (average  of  12  sites  out  &  back  along  the  route. 
10  mile  (average  of  18  sites  out  &   back  along  the  route). 

*  In  1986  there  was  only  one  CO  monitor  (10  mile).  Six  mile  mean 
values  were  calculated  using  recorded  10  mile  "out"  values 
(University  Settlement  House  out  to  the  3  -  mile  turn  point),  & 
estimated  values  for  3  -  mile  "back"  (3  -  mile  turn  point  back  to 
University  Settlement  House)  values  (using  the  ratio  of 
"out/back"  recorded  in  1987  when  there  was  a  6  and  10  mile  CO 
monitor).  Since  the  ratio  of  "out/back"  was  fairly  constant  over 
1987,  the  assumption  was  made  that  this  was  the  case  in  1986,  as 
the  running  route  was  the  same. 

Same  abbreviations  as  Tables  2A,  3A. 


CO 

(ppm 

1 

EEKS 

MEAN 

f 

SD 

RANGE 

72 

3  .8 

+ 

1  .9 

0.  6 

- 

g 

1 

73 

2  .  7 

+ 

1  .  6 

0  .  4 

- 

B 

1 

72 

0.9 

+ 

0.7 

0.0 

- 

4 

0 

72 

1  .0 

■+ 

0.7 

0.0 

- 

4 

0 

73 

1  .0 

+ 

0.7 

0  .0 

- 

4 

0 

72 

1  .4 

+ 

1  .5 

0.0 

- 

11 

0 

71 

1  .4 

+ 

1  .5   . 

0.  0 

- 

11 

0 

72 

1.4 

+ 

1  .5 

0.0 

- 

11 

0 

65 


TABLE  3D 

MEAN  CO  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR  SITES  ALONG 

6  MILE  WEDNESDAY  RUN  ROUTE  OVER  1987  -  1988 


Site 

University  Settlement  House 

Queen  and  Soho 

King  and  Peter 

Front  and  Peter 

Front  and  Spadina 

Spadina  Bridge 

QEW  and  Spadina 

Queen's  Quay  and  Spadina 

Lakeshore  and  Bathurst 

Tip  Top  Taylors  (Lakeshore) 

War  Plane  at  Ontario  Place 

Remembrance  Drive  (3  mile  turn) 

Mean  CO  concentration  (ppm) 

(all  sites  averaged) 

Peak  CO  concentration  (ppm 


1 

4 
5 
6 

a 

3 
9 
4 
1 
2 
1 
2 


Out 

2  +  1 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


1 
1 
1 
3 
2 
7 
0 
6 
8 
1 
1 


3  .8 


6 
0 
3 
9 

2 
9 
2 
4 

5 
3 
1 
8 


2  .0 


12.1  +  8.2 


{ weeks ) 
53) 
52) 
54) 
37) 
52) 
25) 
26) 
24) 
24) 
54) 
54) 
54) 

54) 

54) 


Back   (weeks 


1 
6 
8 
4 

8 

6 
4 

6 
3 
4 
0 
2 


1 
3 
3 
5 
3 
2 
4 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 


0 
1 
1 

a 
l 

6 

7 

6 
3 
0 
2 


2.9  +  1.4 


8.3  +  4.4 


54) 

52) 

50) 

10) 

52  ) 

28) 

30) 

8) 

21) 

53) 

53) 

30) 

54) 

54  ) 


Mean  CO  concentration  -  all  sites  out  and  back:  3.4  +1.6  ppm  (54) 


TABLE  3E 

MEAN  CO  CONCENTRATIONS  FOR  SITES  ALONG 

10  MILE  WEDNESDAY  RUN  ROUTE  OVER  1986  -  1988 


Site 

University  Settlement  House 

Queen  and  Soho 

King  and  Peter 

Wellington  and  Peter 

Front  and  Peter 

Front  and  Spadina 

Front  and  Portland 

Spadina  Bridge  underpass 

QEW  and  Spadina 

Bathurst  Bridge  overpass 

Queen's  Quay  and  Spadina 

Canada  Malting 

Lakeshore  and  Bathurst 

Tip  Top  Taylors  (Lakeshore) 

War  Plane  at  Ontario  Place 

Remembrance  Dr.  (3  mile  turn) 

Lakeshore  Blvd.  (bleachers) 

Aquatic  Drive 

Tennis  courts  (4  mile  turn) 

Boulevard  Club 

Budapest  Park 

Sunnyside  Pool  (5  mile  turn) 

Mean  CO  concentration  (ppm) 

(all  sites  averaged) 

Peak  CO  concentration  (ppm) 


I 
5 
4 
3 
6 

8 

1 

4 
8 
3 

4 
1 
3 
2 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 


Out 

+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 


4 
3 

4 
2 

0 
3 
0 
0 
4 
0 
7 
ft 
6 
2 
8. 
8 
6 
1 
3 

.5 
0 

.  5 


1 
8 
4 
4 
6 
7 
1 
2 
5 
2 
3 
1 
2 
2 
1 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 


9 
3 
3 

1 
3 
5 
1 
8 
2 
9 
6 
5 
9 
3 
4 
0 
1 
4 
4 
6 
5 
2 


3.2  +  2.0 


12.7  +  9.4 


weeks ) 
71) 
69) 
71) 
16) 
54) 
68) 
25) 
44) 
45) 
27) 
41) 
24) 
27) 
53) 
55) 
73) 
70) 
71) 
54) 
71) 
54) 
70) 

73) 

73) 


Back   (weeks) 


0 

8 
7 
5 
7 

5 


1  .  1 
2.8 


5 
1 
4 

3 
3 
1 
1 
1 
1 
0 
1 
1 
1 
0 


.4 
.  5 
.6 
.  1 
.  4 
.  4 
.7 
.  5 
.  8 
.  1 
.  2 
.8 
.3 
.  7 
.  2 
.  6 
.7 
.  2 

.  6 

.4 

.0 


2.1  +  1.5 


7.6  +  5.6 


(65) 

(68) 

(66) 

(20) 

(32) 

(65) 

(21  ) 

(45) 

(41) 

(22) 

(26) 

(24) 

(25) 

(53) 

(54) 

(70) 

(68) 

(68) 

(54) 

(66) 

(53) 

(  ID 

(73) 

(73) 

Mean  CO  concentration  -  all  sites  out  and  back:  2.7  +  1.6  ppm  (73) 


66 
TABLE  4A 


WEEKS 

MEAN 

+ 

SD 

RANGE 

73 

18 

f 

7 

5 

31 

74 

17 

+ 

7 

2 

33 

73 

17 

+ 

7 

2 

-   32 

74 

17 

+ 

7 

2 

-   33 

75 

18 

+ 

7 

2 

-   32 

MEAN  TEMPERATURE  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1986  -1988 

AVERAGES  FOR  GAGE  10  MILE  MOBILE  MONITOR, 
MOE  AND  AES  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITES 

Tempera ture_ [Degrees  Celcius} 

SITE 

(a)  Gage  ( 10  mile) 

(b)  E-MOE  (1800  hrs) 

(c)  E-MOE  ( 1900  hrs) 

(d)  E-MOE  (mean  of  b  +  c) 

(e)  TC-AES  (mean  1800,1900  hrs) 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  3A. 

Gage:   Gage  mobile  temperature/humidity  monitor  ( Jenway  model  5500, 

wet  bulb/dry  bulb).   Mean  of  4  sites  along  the  running  route. 
TC-AES:   Environment  Canada  -  Atmospheric  Environment  Services 

Trinity  College  site,  Queen's  Park. 
Note:   No  Gage  mobile  data  was  collected  May  6  &  Nov.  11,  1987, 

TC-AES  data  was  used  May  6:Temp=23°C,  Nov.  ll:Temp=2°C. 


TABLE  4B 

MEAN  RELATIVE  HUMIDITY  FOR 
WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1987  -1988 

AVERAGE  FOR  GAGE  10  MILE  MOBILE  MONITOR 
AND  AES  STATIONARY  MONITORING  SITE 

Relative_HumiditY_[Percent| 
SITE  WEEKS      MEAN  +   SD  RANGE 

Gage    (10    mile)  54  60      +14  34      -      88 

TC-AES  54  58       +16  26      -      95 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  4A. 

Gage:   Gage  mobile  temperature/humidity  monitor  (Jenway  model  5500, 
wet  bulb/dry  bulb) . 

Mean  of  4  sites  along  the  running  route. 
Note :  No  Gage  mobile  data  was  collected  in  1986, 

TC-AES  data  was  used:  N=  18,  mean  RH=  63  +  17* ,  range=  32  -  88* 
No  Gage  mobile  data  was  collected  May  6,  July  15  &  Nov.  11,1987 
TC-AES  data  was  used  May  6 : RH=25%, July  15 ! RH=51* , Nov .  11:RH=44*. 


TABLE  5A 

AVERAGE  SYMPTOM  AND  POLLUTION  RATINGS 
WEDNESDAY  RONS  OVER  1986  -  1988 


~7 


N 

SYMPTOM 

700 

69%* 

581 

67%* 

581 
464 
464 
464 
464 

61%* 

*  * 
72% 

*  * 
70% 

68%** 

54%** 

464 
464 

60%* 
38%** 

MEAN  RATING  +  SD 


RANGE 


VARIABLE 
Pollution  Rating 

Leg  Fatigue 
Breathing  Fatigue 

Nasal  Discharge 

Sputum/Phlegm 
Nasal  Stuffiness 
Sore/Dry  Throat 
Eye  Irritation 
Cough 

N:   Number  of  test-sets  (see  Table  1A). 

MEAN  RATING:   After  the  run,  subjects  were  asked  to  subjectively 

rate  their  symptoms  from  the  above  list,  and  to  rate  the  pollution 

during  the  run  using  a  modified  Borg  rating  scale  as  detailed  below: 


3.3 

+ 

1.6 

0.0   - 

-   10.0 

3.3 

f 

1  .8 

0.0   - 

10.0 

2.9 

+ 

1  .  6 

0.0 

10.0 

1  .9 

+ 

1  .8 

0.0   - 

10.0 

1.8 

+ 

1  .8 

0.0   - 

10.0 

1  .7 

+ 

1  .7 

0.0 

8.0 

1  .  2 

+ 

1  .5 

o.o  - 

7  .0 

1  .  1 

4 

1  .4 

0.0 

8  .0 

0.  8 

4 

1  .4 

0.0   - 

7.0 

0 

Nothing  at  all. 

0.5   - 

Very,  very  weak- 

(just  noticeable) 

1 

Very  weak. 

2 

Weak. 

3 

Moderate . 

4 

Somewhat  strong. 

SYMPTOM: 

Percentage  re 

5 
6 
7 
9 
9 
10 


Strong . 
Very  strong 


Very,  very  strong  (almost  max) 
Maximal . 


** 


Percentage  reporting  Moderate  (3)  rating  or  higher. 
Percentage  reporting  any  trace  (0.5)  rating  or  higher. 


TABLE  5B 

AVERAGE  SYMPTOM  AND  POLLUTION  RATINGS 

WEDNESDAY  RUNS  OVER  1986  -  1988 

FOR  6,  8  AND  10  MILE  GROUPS 


MEAN  RATINGS  +  SD 


(a 
(b 
(c 

(d 
(e 
(f 

(g 

(h 
(i 


VARIABLE 

Pollution  Rating 
Leg  Fatigue 
Breathing  Fatigue 
Nasal  Discharge 
Sputum /Phlegm 
Nasal  Stuffiness 
Sore/Dry  Throat 
Eye  Irritation 
Cough 


6  mi] 

e 
1 

.6 

8  mi  le 

B 

10 
3.  2 

mj 

+ 

.le 

3.4  + 

3.2 

+ 

1 

1  .6 

3.1  + 

1 

.8 

3.2 

+ 

1 

8 

3.4 

+ 

1  .8 

2.9  + 

1 

6 

2.7 

+ 

1 

5 

3.  1 

= 

1  .7 

1.8  + 

1 

.8 

1  .9 

+■ 

1 

.8 

2.0 

+ 

1.8 

2.0  + 

1 

9 

1  .8 

+ 

1 

.8 

1  .8 

+ 

1  .  8 

1.6  + 

1 

8 

1  .7 

+ 

1 

.6 

1  .7 

+ 

1  .7 

1.4  + 

1 

6 

1  .2 

+ 

1 

.6 

1  .  1 

+ 

1  .4 

1.1  + 

1 

.3 

1.  1 

+ 

1 

.2 

1  .2 

+ 

1  .6 

0.9  + 

1 

4 

0.8 

+ 

1 

.4 

0.8 

+ 

1  .  4 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  5A. 

6  mile:  2,  4,  5  or  6  miles  (N=  209:a,  174:a  &    c,  134:d  to  i) 

8  mile:  7,  8  or  9  miles  { N=  153:a,  137:b  &  c,  110:d  to  i) 

10  mile:  10,  12  or  14  miles  ( N=  338:a,  270:b  &    c,  220:d  to  i) 


MlHOPOMETRic 
A9e  TyrVj  " 

"eight    (cm) 
B°dy   Mass (kg) 

0°le:        Valium 
values   are 


TABLE    6A 


MALES 

38    +    9 
174.6    +    6 
69.3    +    6, 


3 
9 


means   + 


I^MALES 

rif«u) 

34    +    i0 
-163.  8    +    75 
55.4    +    9    g 


standard   deviation. 


ALL 

(N=45) 

37  +  9 

172.0  +  a 

65.9  +  9 


0 
6 


„  '1    (mi  ) 

*  75   (ml/sec) 


5243 
4202 
80 
21044 
4962 
1758 


(113) 
(106) 

(N=33) 

(108) 

(75) 


3897  (112) 
3225  (109) 
83 
7794 
4029  (117) 
1509  (86) 


4914  (113} 

3964  (107) 
81 

IQ231  (N=44) 
4?34  (n0) 
1697  (78; 


p^-   Values  are  means  tn  1697  <78J 

3  :  SK5  K^SSF"  °f  Predlcted  ~  «~ 
fr  so :  stxr?  '*---  VOJun,e- 

FEV       Morris      ?"      ?ecWake    (l96gj 

FEP0'    TO"?'    S"fle    «nd    Koski     (1973, 
75-       Lapp   and   Hyatt    fai«W). 

RV  (mi) 


fc»   H20/L/Sec) 


7093     (io6) 
3451     (92) 
1850    (93) 

•24  (N=31) 


5260  (9i) 
2661  (9i) 
1363  (88) 
1.43  (N=9) 


6645  (92) 
3258  (92) 
1731  (92) 
26  (N=40) 


aw 
Note-   va  *.*a  (N=9)  »  9* 

aw  -  airway  resistance. 


DLco 


(miCO/min/mrnHg) 
Values 


(N=18) 
36  (100) 


(N=2) 
25  (103) 


the 


VARIABLE 


TABLE  6B 


69 


FVC 
FEV. 

rc 

PEFR 


50 


FEF 

FEF 
COH55 


(ml) 

(ml) 
(ml) 

(nil/sec ) 
(ml/sec) 
(ml/sec) 


N 

683 

683 

683 

683 

683 

683 

663 


MEAN 
4991 
4031 
3376 
9709 
4929 
1982 
0  .  40 


+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 

+ 


SD 
896 
690 
720 

1677 

1290 
674 

0.  23 


2910 
2240 
1740 
5150 
1930 
590 
0.03 


RANGE 


to 

to 

to 

to 

to 

to 

to 


8980 
7120 

6720 
14850 
8890 
4610 
2  .  25 


cocHb,  ^«s^siv(^ Tabie  ia)- 

COHb*:  oxygen  rebreathe  estate  of  blood  carb    h 

Diood  carboxyhaemoglobin  percent 


VARIABLR 


FVC 
FEV  2 
IC 
PEFR 

FEF50 
C0Hb% 


TABLE  6C 

MEAN  PULMONARY  FUNCTION  AND  COHh*  ano„ 

WEDNESDAY  RUNS  SXrC?£*  ««"■  ™ANGE 


(ml) 

(ml) 

(ml) 

(ml/sec) 

(ml/sec) 

(ml /sec) 


N 
683 
683 
683 
682 
683 
683 
655 


-  0 


MEAN 

27 

5 

171 

132 

22 

40 
.07 


± 
+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
-f 


SD* 
166 
158 

286 
511 

514 
334 

0.  13 


RANGE 
770   to 


730 
2060 
2380 
2340 
1840 
1  .54 


*  A^?^;:^*  <p?st  miaam  prerun) 


to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 


600 
530 
920 
3280 
1960 
1660 
0.26 


TABLE  6D 
MEAN  PULMONARY  FUNCTTnw  »«r, 


VARIABLE 

FVC 

FEV, 

IC 

PEFR 

FEF50 

FEF75 
C0Hb% 


N 
683 
683 
683 
682 
683 
683 
655 


percent' 


CHANGE 
0.5   + 


0 
4 

1  . 

0. 

3. 

10. 


2 
7 
3 
1 
6 
3 


+ 

4 
+ 
+ 
+ 


*  * 


Mean 


+   SD 

3.3 

3.9 

8.2 

5.3 

10.3 

17.7 

40.9 


Percent  change  (post 


N°te:  Same  abbreviatLnsarTa^e^™3  Prerun/Prerun )  x 


RANGE 

15 

.  8 

to 

13 

-  b 

17 

.  9 

to 

15 

4 

43 

8 

to 

34 

■  1 

22, 

7 

to 

36. 

5 

36. 

6 

to 

40. 

0 

60. 

0 

to 

101  . 

2 

87. 

1 

to 

527. 

8 

100 


VARIABLE 
( a )  FVC 
FEV 
IC 
PEFR 


(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

(g) 


1 


FEF50 

FEF75 
COHb* 


TABLE  6E 
FOR  6,  8  AND  10  MILE  GROOM 


70 


Q 

0 

5 

1 

0 

0, 

9  . 


6 
.  1 
.  2 
.3 

8 

7 

9 

1 


+ 

+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


4 
7 
5 
9 
18 
40 


.2 

.2 

.7 

.  2 
8 
0 
3 


PERCENT  SS&ggJ 
8  wile 
5  +   3 


*  * 


0 
0 
5 
1 

0. 

1  . 

12. 


2 
0 

0 

7 

9 

7 


+ 
+ 
+ 

+ 
+ 
+ 


3 
9 

5 
10 
16 
27 


.0 
.5 

.0 

.  5 
2 
0 
5 


0.  8 
0.4 

4.3 


1 

1 
5 
9 


—  -   •  W  —        (1     Q 

:  aSTir55**0^  >^run  minus  prerun  /pr"« »» -  'oo 


lP__mi_le 
3, 
4. 
8. 
5. 
10. 
17 
46 


1 

0 
9 
9 


+ 
+ 
+ 

f 
+ 
+ 
+ 


Same  abbreviations  as  Table  6D 


.5 
.0 

1 
2 
6 
9 
1 


71 

TABLE  7     FREQUENCY  DISTRIBUTIONS  OF  THE  SYMPTOM  SEVERITY  VARIABLES 

N  =  464 


RATING*      SORE/DRY    COUGH    SPUTUM/    STUFFY    NASAL 


THROAT  PHLEGM 


EYE 


NOSE   DISCHARGE   IRRITATION 


(%)  <*>        (*)        (*)        (ft)  (ft) 


°-°  461       62.0       30.4       31.7       27.6 


0.5  4.5       39 


6.7        4.7        3.9 


3-0  9.5       6.5 

4.0  4.7        2.2 


19-6      21.6      22.0 

7-8        6.0       8.0 


>5-°  -i^i      _3^2      _8^6        5.4        7.1 


*   The  coding  for  the  rating  scale: 

0  -  Nothing  at  all 

0.5   -  Very,  very  weak  (just  noticeable) 

1  -  Very  weak 

2  -  Weak 

3  -  Moderate 

4  -  Somewhat  strong 

5  -  Strong 
6 

7  -  Very  strong 
8 

9 

10  Very,  very  strong  (almost  maximum) 
Maximal . 


41  .  2 


/  .  0 


20.3 


1,0  14-2       9'9       12.5       15.7       13.1 

20  16-2       12-3       14.4       14.9       18.3        14.0 


10.6 

3  .  4 
3.0 


100.0     100.0     100.0     iooTo      ib^fo" 


72 


TABLE  8       FREQUENCY  DISTRIBUTION  OF  THE  FATIGUE  VARIABLES 

AND  THE  POLLUTION  RATING  VARIABLE 

N  ■  581 


RATING* 

BREATHING 

LEG 

POLLUTION 

FATIGUE 

FATIGUE 

RATING 

(*) 

{*] 

(*) 

0.0 

5.3 

4  .  8 

0  .  7 

0  .  5 

2  .  8 

2  .6 

1  .  9 

1  .0 

10.2 

7.2 

7.7 

2.0 

21  .2 

18.4 

20.3 

3.0 

30.5 

27.7 

34.9 

4.0 

13.8 

17.7 

17.0 

>5.0 

16.  2 

21  .6 

17.5 

100.  0 

100.0 

100.0 

The  coding  for  the  rating  scale 


0  -  Nothing  at  all 

0.5  -  Very,  very  weak  (just  noticeable) 

1  -  Very  weak 

2  -  Weak 

3  -  Moderate 

4  -  Somewhat  strong 

5  -  Strong 
6 

7  -  Very  strong 
8 
9 

10  -  Very,  very  strong  (almost  maximum) 
Maximal . 


73 

TABLE  9      MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  SYMPTOMS  AND  EXPOSURES 
OBTAINED  FROM  BACKWARD  STEPWISE  MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


SORE/DRY 
THROAT 


0.18  x  POLLUTE   -   0.014  x  AVRH 

(0.001)*  (0.002) 


COUGH 


0.09  x  MEANCO   -   0.01  X  AVRH   -   0.033  x  MEANRBCO 
(0.04)  (0.02)  (0.08) 


SPUTUM/ 
PHLEGM 


0.19  x  POLLUTE   -   0.045  X  AVTEMP   -   0.010  X  AVRH 
{ 0  .001 )  (0 .0001 )  ( 0  .04) 


STUFFY 
NOSE 


+   0.01  X  so2 

(0.06) 

0.27  X  POLLUTE   -  0.049  X  AVTEMP   +   0.0091  X  S02 

(0.0001)  (0.0001)  (0.04) 


-0, 

.04": 

1  x  MEANRBCO 

(0.01) 

NASAL 

=   0, 

.28 

X 

POLLUTE 

DISCHARGE 

(0.0001) 

BREATHING 

=   0, 

,26 

X 

POLLUTE 

FATIGUE 

(0.0001 ) 

LEG 

=   0, 

,  13 

X 

POLLUTE 

FATIGUE 

(0.06) 

(0.0001)  (0.01) 


0.08  x  MEANCO 
(0.05) 


0.10  X  MEANCO   +   0.029  x  AVTEMP 
(0.10)  (0.02) 


EYE  =   0. 19  x  POLLUTE 

IRRITATION  (0.0002) 

The  predictor  list  includes  Gage  pollutant  and  evironmental  measures, 
COHb,  and  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE) . 

*  Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of 
the  hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

For  the  symptom  variables  LEG  and  BREATHING  FATIGUE  N  -    491,  for  all 
others  N  =  423. 


74 


Table  9   continued: 


UNITS  OF  MEASURE  FOR  VARIABLES 
For  symptoms  and  POLLUTE  (pollution  rating)  see  rating  scale  in  Table  8. 
AVRH  -  average  relative  humidity  (%) 
AVTEMP  -  average  temperature  (°C) 
MEANCO  &    PEAKCO  (ppm) 

MEANRBCO  -   mean  rebreathe  CO  (average  of  prerun  and  post  run)  ban 
concentration  (ppm) 

DRBCO  -      rebreathe  CO   (post  run  -   rebreathe  CO  prerun),   baq 
concentration  (ppm) 

C0Hb%  =      22638  x  baqCO  (ppm) 

[.0231  x  bagCO  (ppm) J  +  79 

S02,  no2  &   RSP  (micrograms/m3) 

Note:  The  Gage  "personal"  pollutant  concentrations  used  in  the 
regression  equations  were  matched  according  to  the  distance  the 
individual  ran,  to  the  6  and  10  mile  (bicycle)  concentrations,  as 
follows : 


Distance  Run 

Less  than  or  equal 
to  6  miles 

Greater  than  or  equal 
to  10  miles 

Less  than  10  miles  or 
greater  than  6  miles 


Concentration  Used 


6  mile 


10  mile 


mean  of  6  and  10  mill 


75 


TABLE  10     MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  SYMPTOMS  AND  EXPOSURES 

OBTAINED  FROM  BACKWARD  STEPWISE  MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


SORE/DRY 
THROAT 


-0.014  X  AVRH 

(0.002) 


COUGH 


-0.010  X  AVRH   -   0.0074  x  S02   +   0.11  x  MEANCO 
(0.02)  (0.10)  (0.01  ) 


0.034  x  MEANRBCO 
(0.08) 


SPUTUM/ 
PHLEGM 


•0.0091    x    AVRH       +       0.0096    x    S02         -       0.037    x    AVTEMP 

(0.05)  (0.06)  (0.0002) 


STUFFY 
NOSE 


0.0062  x  N02   +   0.016  x  PEAKCO   -   0.04  x  AVTEMP 


(0.06) 


(0.04) 


(0.0001 ) 


0.05  x  MEANRBCO 
(0.02 ) 


NASAL 
DISCHARGE 


-0.07  x  AVTEMP   -   0.011  x  AVRH 

(0.0001)  (0.02) 


BREATHING 
FATIGUE 


0.019  X  AVTEMP 

(0.04) 


LEG 
FATIGUE 


0.04  2  x  AVTEMP 

(0.0002) 


EYE 
IRRITATION 


0.005  x  N02   -  0.10  x  MEANCO   +   0.024  x  PEAKCO 
(0.12)  (0.08)  (0.02) 


POLLUTION 
RATING 


0.009  x  N02   +   0.14  x  MEANCO   +  0.049  x  AVTEMP 


(0.001) 


(0.002) 


(0.0001 ) 


Only  Gage  pollutant  and  environmental  measures  and  COHb  are  included  in 
the  predictor  list. 


Same  abbreviations  as  Table  9. 


76 


TABLE  11     MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  PULMONARY  FUNCTION 

VARIABLES  AND  EXPOSURES  OBTAINED  FROM  BACKWARD  STEPWISE 
MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


PEFPOST 


-0.007  x  AVTEMP   +   0.003  x  AVRH 
(0.06)  (0.06) 


DIC 


0.008  x  MEANRBCO   -   0.015  x  POLLUTE 
(0.02)  (0.12) 


ICPOST 


0.0059  X  MEANRBCO   -   0.022  x  POLLUTE 
(0.05)  (0.005) 


DFVC 


0.0005  X  N0o    -   0.002  X  AVTEMP 


(0.08) 


(0.02) 


FVCPOST 


0.0009  x  NO, 


(0.007) 


FEVjPOST 


0.0044  X  AVTEMP 
(0.0001 ) 


0.003  x  MEANRBCO   -   0.0076  x  POLLUTE 
(0. 10)  (0.11) 


DFEF 


50 


0.006  X  AVTEMP 
(0.04) 


FEF5QPOST 


0.0053  x  AVTEMP 
(0.08) 


0.012  x  MEANRBCO   -   0.015  x  DRBCO 
(0.08)  (0.01) 


DFEF 


75 


-0.001  x  NOg    -   0.021  x  MEANCO 
(0.10)  (0.04) 


FEF?5P0ST   = 


-0.002  x  N02   +   0.002  X  S02   +   0.005  x  AVTEMP 
(0.001)  (0.04)  (0.02) 


The  predictor  list  includes  Gage  pollutant  and  environmental  measures, 
COHb,  and  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE). 

Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  the 
hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 


For  all  analyses  N  =  539 


77 
Table  11  continued: 

UNITS  OF  MEASURE  FOR  VARIABLES: 
See  Tables  6A  and  6B  for  definition  of  pulmonary  function  variables. 
POST  ■  post  run  value 

D  ■  mean  absolute  change  (post  run  -  prerun) 
FVC,  FEVj,  IC  (litres) 
FEF50,  FEF75,  PEF  (litres/sec) 

Predictor  variables  have  the  same  units  as  Table  9. 


78 

TABLE  12  MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  PULMONARY  FUNCTION 
VARIABLES  AND  EXPOSURES  OBTAINED  FROM  BACKWARD  STEPWISE 
MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


PEFPOST 


-0.007  x  AVTEMP   +   0.003  X  AVRH 

(0.05)  (0.06) 


DIG 


0.0083  x  MEANRBCO 
(0.02) 


ICPOST 


-0.003  X  AVTEMP 
(0.04) 


DFVC 


-0.0018  x  AVTEMP 
(0.03) 


FVCPOST 


0.0009  x  N02 

(0.01) 


FEVjPOST   = 


0.0041  x  AVTEMP   +   0.0026  x  MEANRBCO 
(0.0001)  (0.14) 


DFEF 


50 


0.006  x  AVTEMP 
(0.06) 


FEF50POST  = 


0.006  x  AVTEMP 
(0.07) 


0.01  x  DRBCO 
(0.07) 


FEF 


75 


-0.001  x  N02   -   0.02  x  MEANCO 
(0.14)  (0.05) 


FEF?5POST  = 


0.004  x  AVTEMP   -   0.002  X  N02   +   0.001  x  S02 

(0.05)  (0.005)  (0.12) 


Only  Gage  pollutant  measures  are  included  in  the  predictor  list. 

Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  the 
hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

For  all  analyses  N  =  547. 

Same  abbreviations  as  Table  11. 


79 

TABLE  13     MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  SYMPTOMS  AND  EXPOSURE: 
OBTAINED  FROM  BACKWARD  STEPWISE  MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


SORE/DRY 
THROAT 


0.16  X  POLLUTE 
( 0 . 04 ) 


0.01  X  AVRH 

(0.02) 


COUGH 


0.11  x  POLLUTE 
(0.07) 


0.01  x  SO, 


(0.05) 


0.12  X  MEANCO 
(0.04) 


-0.0089  x  AVRH   -   0.055  x  MEANRBCO 


9.6  x  BNO 


(0.06) 


0.03) 


(0.13) 


SPUTUM/      =   0.12  x  POLLUTE   -   0.057  x  AVTEMP   + 
PHLEGM  (0.08)  (0.0001) 


0.21  X  BCO 

(0.04) 


-  1.25  x  BHCX 

(0.004) 


16.6  x  BSO, 


(0.06) 


STUFFY 
NOSE 


0.20  X  POLLUTE 
(0.001) 


0.09  x  MEANCO 
(0.10) 


0.05  K    AVTEMP 
(0.0002 


-   0.05  x  MEANRBCO 
(0.04) 


NASAL 
DISCHARGE 


0.19  x  POLLUTE   + 
(0.005) 


0.008  x  SO, 


(0.13) 


0.08  X  AVTEMP 

(0.0001 ) 


+   0.26  x  BCO 
(0.01) 


1 . 28  x  BHCX 

(0.001) 


BREATHING 
FATIGUE 


0.28  x  POLLUTE   -   0.11  x  MEANCO   -   0.0048  X  BSO, 


(0.0001 ) 


(0.02) 


(0.03) 


0.0048  X  BNO, 


(0. 13) 


LEG 
FATIGUE 


0.11  X  POLLUTE   + 

(0. 15) 


0.063  x  AVTEMP   -   1 . 23  X  BHCX 


(0.0001 ) 


(0.01) 


+   20. 1  X  BN02 

(0.02) 


0.11  x  BN03 

(0.01) 


EYE 
IRRITATION 


0.  16  X  POLLUTE 
(0.008) 


Gage  and  MOE  pollutant  exposures  and  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE 
are  Included  in  the  predictor  list. 

Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  th< 
hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

For  the  symptom  variables  LEG  and  BREATHING  FATIGUE  N  =  385,  for  ai: 
others  N  =  335. 


The  letter  B  preceeding  the  pollutant  variable  name  represents  the 
Breadalbane  MOE  site. 


TABLE  13  continued: 

UNITS  OF  MEASURE  FOR  VARIABLES: 


See  Table  9  for  GAGE  variables. 

COH  -  coefficient  of  haze  (0.1  C0H/1000  ft.) 

CO  -  (ppm) 

NO,  N02,  &    S02  -  (0.1  ppm) 

API  -  air  pollution  index  (unitless) 

03   -  ozone  (ppb) 

HCX  -  total  hydorcarbons  x-ray  analysis  (0.1  ppm) 

S04  -  sulphates  (0.1  micrograms/m3 ) 

NOg  -  nitrates  (0.1  micrograms/m  ) 

PART  -  suspended  particulate  (HI-V0L  sampler)  (micrograms/m3) 


81 

TABLE  14     MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  SYMPTOMS  AND  EXPOSURE: 
OBTAINED  FROM  BACKWARD  STEPWISE  MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


SORE/DRY 
THROAT 

COUGH 


SPUTUM/ 
PHLEGM 

STUFFY 
NOSE 

NASAL 
DISCHARGE 


BREATHING 
FATIGUE 

LEG 

FATIGUE 

EYE 
IRRITATION 


=   -0.05  X  AVTEMP 
(0.0001 ) 

0.14  x  MEANCO   -  0.01  X  AVRH   -   0.053  x  MEANRBCO 

(0.002)  (0.04)               (0.04) 

-0.05  x  AVTEMP   +  0.20  x  BCO    -   0 . 95  x  BUCK 

(0.0001)  (0.05)            (0.02) 

=   -0.03  x  AVTEMP   +  0.11  x  MEANCO   -   0.59  x  BCHX 

(0.007)  (0.04)              (0.09) 

=   -0.08  x  AVTEMP   +  0.008  x  S02    +   0.026  x  BCO 

(0.0001)  (0.13)               (0.01) 

-1.30  x  BHCX 

(0.0009) 

0.037  x  AVTEMP   -  0.005  X  BS02 

(0.002)  (0.02) 

0.06  X  AVTEMP    -  0.0073  X  BNO 


(0.0002) 

=   0.014  x  AVTEMP 
(0. 18) 


3 

(0.06) 


POLLUTE       =   0.039  x  AVTEMP   +   0.010  x  N02   +   0.15  x  MEANCO 

(0.002)  (0.001)  (0.008) 

-9.85  x  BNO   -   12.5  x  BS02 

(0.11)  (0.10) 

Gage  and  MOE  pollutant  exposures  are  included  in  the  predictor  list. 

Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  th« 
hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

For  the  symptom  variables  LEG  and  BREATHING  FATIGUE  N  =  385,  for  ai; 
others  N  =  335. 


Same  abbreviations  as  Table  13 


82 

TABLE    15  MULTIPLE     REGRESSION     EQUATIONS     FOR     PULMONARY     FUNCTION 

VARIABLES     AND     EXPOSURES     OBTAINED     FROM     BACKWARD     STEPWISE 
MULTIPLE    LINEAR    REGRESSION 


DPEF 


PEFPOST 


DIG 


ICPOST 


DFVC 


FVCPOST 


DFEV, 


DFEF 


50 


0.016    x    MEANRBCO 
(0.05) 


■       0.004    X    PEAKCO 
(0.18) 

=    -0.004    X    BO3 

(0.01) 

sb      0.01    x    MEANRBCO 
(0.02) 


=       0.007    X    MEANRBCO       -       0.018    x    POLLUTE 
(0.04)  (0.03) 

=       0.0007    X    N02       -       0.006    X    BAPI  +       0.0007    x    BS04 

(0.03)  (0.009)  (0.01) 

=       0.0006    x    BN03 

(0.02) 

=  -0.005  x  BAPI   +   0.0009  x  BSOA 


(0.05) 


(0.0004) 


FEVjPOST    -  -1.26  x  BNO    +   0.0007  x  BS04 

(0.008)  (0.0001) 


=  -4.65  x  BN02    +   0.0028  x  BPART 


(0.01) 


(0.02) 


FEF50P0ST  -    -0.02  X  MEANRBCO   -   0.016  x  DRBCO   +   0.019  x  BAPI 

(0.01)  (0.01)  (0.004) 

-4.2  X  BN02 

(0.03) 

■  -0.002  X  NOo   +   0.01  x  BAPI   -   7.26  X  BSOo 


DFEF?5 


(0.01) 


(0.01) 


(0.0006) 


FEF75POST   sb  -0.002  x  N02   -   5.1  x  BS02   +   0.002  X  BS04 

(0.004)         (0.005)  (0.0002) 

Gage  and  MOE  pollutant  exposures  and  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE) 
are  Included  in  the  predictor  list. 

Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  the 
hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

For  all  analyses  N  =  426. 

Same  abbreviations  as  Tables  11  and  13. 


8  3 

TABLE    16  MULTIPLE     REGRESSION     EQUATIONS     FOR     PULMONARY     FUNCTIO; 

VARIABLES     AND     EXPOSURES     OBTAINED     FROM     BACKWARD     STEPWIS 
MULTIPLE    LINEAR   REGRESSION 


DPEF 


PEFPOST 


•0.043    x    MEANCO       +       0.088    x    PEAKCO 
(0.03)  (0.02) 


•0.004    x    B03 

(0.01) 


DIC 


ICPOST 


DFVC 


FVCPOST 


DFEV, 


FEVjPOST 


DFEF, 


0.01    X    MEANRBCO 
(0.02) 

0.009    x    MEANRBCO       +       0.006    x    DRBCO 
(0.02)  (0.06) 


0.0006  x  NO, 


(0 

.06) 

0 

.0006 

x  BN03 
(0.02) 

0. 

,0005 

x  BS04 
(0.002) 

0.0061  x  BAPI   +   0.006  x  BS04 

(0.01 )  (0.02) 


=   -1.01  x  BNO   +   0.0007  x  BSO, 


(0.02) 


(0.0001 


0.007  x  AVTEMP 
(0.05) 


50 
FEF5QP0ST   = 


(0.02) 


0.016  x  DRBCO   +   0.013  x  BAPI 

(0.02)  (0.02) 


DFEF?5 


V02   +   0.014  x  BAPI   -   7.5  x  BS02 


(0.01) 


(0.005) 


(0.0004) 


FEF?5P0ST   =   -0.002  X  N02   -   4 . 69  X  BS02   +   0.001  x  BS04 

(0.02)  (0.01)  (0.001) 

Gage  and  MOE  pollutant  exposures  are  included  in  the  predictor  list. 

Bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  tht 
hypothesis  that  the  partial  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

For  all  analyses  N  =  434. 

Same  abbreviations  as  Tables  11  and  13. 


84 

TABLE  17  MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  FOUR  MEASURES  OF  BLOOD 
CARBON  MONOXIDE  AND  POLLUTANT  EXPOSURES  OBTAINED  FROM 
BACKWARD  STEPWISE  MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


RBCOPRE 

(N=564) 


0.02  X  S02    +   0.60  X  MEANCO   - 
(0.13)*  (0.0003) 


0.04  3  x  PEAKCO 
(0. 16) 


RBCOPOST 
(N=565) 


0.02  X  N02   +   0.80  x  MEANCO   -   0.051  X  PEAKCO 


( 0 .0004 


(0.0001 ) 


0.01) 


MEANRBCO 
(N=564) 


0.014  x  N02   +   0.70  x  MEANCO 
(0.03)  (0.0001) 


0.042  x  PEAKCO 
(0.06) 


DIFFRBCO 

(N=564) 


0.018  x  N02   -   0.019  x  S02 
(0.03) 


♦   0. 201  X  MEANCO 
(0.04)  (0.11) 


The  predictor  list  includes  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE) 
RBCOPRE 


RBCOPOST 


Rebreathe  carbon  monoxide  (bag  concentration  in  ppm) 
taken  just  before  the  run. 

Rebreathe  carbon  monoxide  (bag  concentration  in  ppm)  taken 
immediately  after  the  run. 


MEANRBCO    -   The  mean  of  the  pre  and  post  rebreathe  readings. 

DIFFRBCO    -   The  difference  between  the  pre  and  post  rebreathe  readings 

(RBCOPOST  -  RBCOPRE) 


*   The  bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t 
test  of  the  hypothesis  that  the  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 


See  Table  9  for  COHb*  calculation, 


8  5 

TABLE  18  MULTIPLE  REGRESSION  EQUATIONS  FOR  FOUR  MEASURES  OF  BLOOI 
CARBON  MONOXIDE  AND  POLLUTANT  EXPOSURES  OBTAINED  FROf 
BACKWARD  STEPWISE  MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION 


RBCOPRE 
(N=572) 


0.01  X  PART   +   0.48  X  MEANCO 
(0.13)*  (0.0005) 


RBCOPOST 
(N=573) 


0.022  X  N02   +   0.79  x  MEANCO   - 
(0.0003)  (0.0001) 


0.048  x  PEAKCO 
(0.01  ) 


MEANRBCO 
(N=572) 


0.015  x  N02   +   0.69  x  MEANCO 


(0.03) 


(0.0001 ) 


0.042  x  PEAKCO 
(0.045) 


DIFFRBCO 
(N=572) 


0.017  X  N02   -   0.013  x  S02     +   0.194  x  MEANCO 
(0.03)  (0.15)  (0.12) 


The  predictor  list  does  not  include  the  pollution  rating  scale  (POLLUTE) 

*   The  bracketed  values  are  the  p  values  associated  with  Student's  t 
test  of  the  hypothesis  that  the  regression  coefficient  is  zero. 

Same  abbreviations  as  Tables  9  and  17. 


86 


TABLE  19     MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION  MODEL  FOR  POLLUTION  RATING  AGAINST 
MEAN  N02,  TEMPERATURE  AND  CARBON  MONOXIDE  CONCENTRATION  •* 


REGRESSION     STANDARD     P  *     CUMULATIVE    PARTIAL 
COEFFICIENT     ERROR     VALUE      R  SQUARE     R  SQUARE 


N02 

0. 

,009 

0.003 

0 

.001 

0.380 

0.045 

AVERAGE 

0 

.049 

0.009 

0 

.0001 

0.404 

0.039 

TEMPERATURE 

MEAN  CO 

0 

134 

0.046 

0 

,004 

0.414 

0.017 

*  The  P  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  the  hypothesis 
that  the  regression  coefficient  is  zero  in  the  final  model  that 
has  all  three  variables. 


The  N02  and  the  CO  concentrations  and  temperature  were  measured  by 
the  Gage  monitors  on  bicycles  that  accompanied  the  runners  along 
their  route. 


Number  of  runners  =  65  and  number  of  runner  days  =  545. 


87 

TABLE  20   MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION  MODEL  FOR  POLLUTION  RATING  AGAINST 
MEAN  N02,  TEMPERATURE  AND  REBREATHE  CO  CONCENTRATION  •• 


REGRESSION 

STANDARD 

p  * 

CUMULATIVE 

PARTIAL 

COEFFICIENT 

ERROR 

VALUE 

R  SQUARE 

R  SQUARE 

N02 

0.011 

0.003 

0.0001 

0.  380 

0  .045 

AVERAGE 

0.040 

0.009 

0 .0001 

0.404 

0.039 

TEMPERATURE 

MEANRBCO 

0.038 

0.019 

0.046 

0.409 

0.008 

*   The  P  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  the  hypothesis 

that  the  regression  coefficient  is  zero  in  the  final  model  that  has 
all  three  variables. 


**   The  N02  concentration  and  temperature  were  measured  by  the  Gage 
monitors  on  bicycles  that  accompanied  the  runners  along  their 
route . 


MEANRBCO 


Mean  of  the  pre  and  post  run  rebreathe  CO,  bac 
concentration  ( ppm ) . 


The  number  of  runners  =  65  and  the  number  of  runner  days  =  545. 


88 


TABLE  21     MULTIPLE  LINEAR  REGRESSION  MODEL  FOR  POLLUTION  RATING  AGAINST 
MEAN  N02,  RESPIRABLE  PARTICULATE  AND  OZONE  CONCENTRATION  ** 


CUMULATIVE    PARTIAL 


COEFFICIENT 

ERROR 

VALUE 

R  SQUARE 

R  SQUARE 

N02 

0.011 

0.003 

0.0001 

0.380 

0.  045 

OZONE 

0.012 

0.003 

0.0001 

0.399 

0.032 

BREADALBANE 

RESPIRABLE 

0.004 

0.002 

0.019 

0.406 

0.011 

PARTICULATES 

*   The  P  values  associated  with  Student's  t  test  of  the  hypothesis 

that  the  regression  coefficient  is  zero  in  the  final  model  that  has 
all  three  variables. 


*   The  NOg  and  respirable  particulate  concentrations  were  measured  by 
the  Gage  monitors  on  bicycles  that  accompanied  the  runners  along 
their  route. 


The  number  of  runners  =  65  and  the  number  of  runner  days  ■  545. 


89 


TABLE  22     FREQUENCY  DISTRIBUTION  OF  THE  SLOPES  OF  THE  INDIVIDUA1 
RUNNERS  -  POLLUTE  AGAINST  MEAN  N02  • 


RANGE 

OF  SLOPES 

FREQUENCY 

0.  04 

to 

-0.02 

3 

0.02 

to 

0.  00 

15 

0.00 

to 

0.  02 

16 

0.02 

to 

0.04 

14 

0.04 

to 

0.06 

2 

0.06 

to 

0.08 

4 

0.08 

to 

0.  10 

1 

0.  10 

to 

0.  12 

2 

0.  12 

to 

0.  14 

0 

0.  14 

to 

0.16 

1 

58 

MEAN   =   0.021    STD  DEV   »   0.037    MEDIAN  =  0.011 

P  VALUE  FOR  WILCOXON  SIGNED  RANK  TEST   =   0.00004 

90%  RANGE       -0.02    to    0.11 

Number  of  positive/negative  slopes  =  40/18 

P  value  for  the  sign  test   =   0.004 

Only  slopes  based  on  three  or  more  days  of  measurements 
are  reported  in  this  table. 

POLLUTE  is  a  subjective  rating  scale  of  pollution  that  can 
assume  values  from  0  -  no  pollution  -  to  10  -  severe 
pollution. 


90 


TABLE  23     FREQUENCY  DISTRIBUTION  OF  THE  SLOPES  OF  THE  INDIVIDUAL 
RUNNERS  -  POLLUTE  AGAINST  MEAN  CARBON  MONOXIDE 


RANGE 

OF  SLOPES 

FREQUENCY 

1  .  25 

to 

-1.00 

1 

1  .00 

to 

-0.75 

0 

0.75 

to 

-0.  50 

2 

0.50 

to 

-0.25 

3 

0.25 

to 

0.00 

13 

0.00 

to 

0.25 

24 

0.25 

to 

0.50 

11 

0.50 

to 

0.75 

2 

0.75 

to 

1  .00 

1 

1.00 

TO 

1.25 

1 

1  .25 

to 

1  .50 

1 

59 

MEAN   =   0.10     STD  DEV   =   0.38     MEDIAN  =  0.075 

P  VALUE  FOR  WILCOXON  SIGNED  RANK  TEST   ■   0.02 

90S  RANGE       -0.51    to    0.77 

Number  of  positive/negative  slopes  =  40/19 

P  value  for  the  sign  test  =   0.006 

*   Only  slopes  based  on  three  or  more  days  of  measurements 
are  reported  in  this  table. 

POLLUTE  is  a  subjective  rating  scale  of  pollution  that  can 
assume  values  from  0  -  no  pollution  -  to  10  -  severe 
pollution. 


91 

TABLE    24  FREQUENCY     DISTRIBUTION     OF     THE     SLOPES     OF     THE     INDIVIDUAL 

RUNNERS    -    POLLUTE    AGAINST    MEAN    TEMPERATURE 


RANGE 

OF  SLOPES 

FREQUEN 

0.5 

to 

-0.4 

1 

0.4 

to 

-0.3 

0 

0.3 

to 

-0.  2 

0 

0.2 

to 

-0.  1 

2 

0.  1 

to 

0.0 

15 

0.0 

to 

0.  1 

25 

0.1 

to 

0.2 

11 

0.2 

to 

0.3 

3 

0.3 

to 

0.  4 

1 

0.4 

to 

0.5 

1 

59 

MEAN   =   0.058     STD  DEV   =   0.129     MEAN  =  0.044 

P  VALUE  FOR  WILCOXON  SIGNED  RANK  TEST   =   0.0001 

90%  RANGE       -0.10    to    0.29 

Number  of  positive/negative  slopes   ■   41/18 

P  Value  for  the  sign  test   =   0.004 

*   Only  slopes  based  on  three  or  more  days  of  measurements 
are  reported  in  this  table. 

POLLUTE  is  a  subjective  rating  scale  of  pollution  that  can 
assume  values  from  0  -  no  pollution  -  to  10  -  severe 
pollution. 


92 

TABLE  25     FREQUENCY  DISTRIBUTION  OF  THE  SLOPES  OF  THE  INDIVIDUAL 
RUNNERS  -  RBCOPOST  AGAINST  MEAN  CARBON  MONOXIDE 


RANGE 

;  OF  SLOPES 

FREQUENCY 

1  .50 

to 

-1  .00 

1 

1  .00 

to 

-0.50 

1 

0.50 

to 

0  .00 

7 

0.00 

to 

0.50 

15 

0.50 

to 

1  .00 

15 

1  .00 

to 

1.50 

12 

1.50 

to 

2  .00 

2 

2.00 

to 

2.50 

2 

> 

2.50 

1 

57 

MEAN   =   0.88      STD  DEV   -   1.50    MEDIAN   =   0.71 

P  VALUE  FOR  WILCOXON  SIGNED  RANK  TEST   -   0.00000007 

90*  RANGE       -0.41    to    2.42 

Number  of  positive/negative  slopes  -      48/9 

P  value  for  the  sign  test   <   0.0001 


*   Only  slopes  based  on  three  or  more  days  of  measurements 
are  reported  in  this  table. 

RBCOPOST  is  an  estimate  of  a  runner's  blood  carbon  monoxide 
level  measured  at  the  end  of  the  run. 


93 

TABLE  26     FREQUENCY  DISTRIBUTION  OF  THE  SLOPES  OF  THE  INDIVIDUAL 
RUNNERS  -  RBCOPOST  AGAINST  MEAN  N02 


RANGE 

OF  SLOPES 

FREQUENCY 

LESS 

THAN     -0. 

1 

4 

-0.  1 

to     0, 

0 

11 

0.0 

to     0. 

1 

33 

0.  1 

to     0, 

2 

5 

0.2 

to     0. 

3 

1 

GREATER 

THAN   0 . 

3 

3 

57 


MEAN   =   0.031      STD  DEV   ■   0.127     MEDIAN   =   0.033 

P  VALUE  FOR  WILCOXON  SIGNED  RANK  TEST   =   0.0005 

90*  RANGE       -0.11    to    0.29 

Number  of  positive/negative  slopes   =   42/15 

P  value  for  the  sign  test   =   0.0006 

*   Only  slopes  based  on  three  or  more  days  of  measurements 
are  reported  in  this  table. 

RBCOPOST   is  an  estimate  of  a  runner's  blood  carbon  monoxide 
level  measured  at  the  end  of  the  run. 


94 


TABLE    27  MULTIPLE     LINEAR     REGRESSION     MODELS     FOR     THE     SUBJECTIVE 

POLLUTION     RATING     SCALE      (POLLUTE)     AGAINST     MEAN     N02 ,     CARBON 
MONOXIDE    AND    TEMPERATURE 


REGRESSION 
COEFFICIENT 


STANDARD 
ERROR 


T 
RATIO 


P 

VALUE 


MODEL  A 
N02  -  GAGE 
TEMPERATURE 
CO  -  GAGE 


-  GAGE 


0.0086 
0.0476 
0.1235 


0.0027 
0.0093 
0.0457 


3.15  0.0017 
5.13  0 .0001 
2.70     0.0071 


MODEL  B 

N02  -  BREADALBANE 
TEMPERATURE  -  GAGE 
CO  -  GAGE 


3.  11 

4.88 

0.64 

0.52 

0.0519 

0.0095 

5.49 

0 .0001 

0.16 

0.048 

3.36 

0.0009 

MODEL  C 


N02  -  GAGE 

0.012 

0.003 

4.41 

0.0001 

TEMPERATURE  -  GAGE 

0.038 

0.0085 

4.43 

0.0001 

CO  -  BREADALBANE 

-0.084 

0.084 

-1  .01 

0.31 

MODEL  D 

N02  -  BREADALBANE 
TEMPERATURE  -  GAGE 
CO  -  BREADALBANE 


11.52 

4.99 

2.31 

0.021 

0.0386 

0.0087 

4.46 

0.0001 

-0.069 

0.091 

-0.76 

0.45 

N02  -  GAGE  and  CO  -  GAGE  are  the  measurements  of  N02  and  carbon  monoxide 
concentrations  using  the  portable  monitors  transported  on  the  bicycles. 

N02  -  BREADALBANE  and  CO  -  BREADALBANE  are  the  measurements  of  N02  and 
carbon  monoxide  concentrations  made  by  the  Ministry  of  the  Environment  at 
their  Breadalbane  location. 


95 

Publications,  Presentations  and  Reports  Related  to  the  Study 

Appendicies  IV  -  VIII  contain  the  progress  reports  submitted  to 
the  Ministry  of  the  Environment. 

A  poster  presentation  was  made  at  both  the  1987  and  1988 
Technology  Transfer  Conference  (Appendix  IX  and  X). 

A  poster  presentation  was  made  at  the  University  of  Toronto  ("U. 
of  T.  day"),  October  24,  1987  and  October  15,  1988. 

Four  abstracts  were  submitted  to  the  1986-1989  Technology  Transfer 
Conferences  (Appendix  XI  -  XIV),  and  extended  abstracts  in  1987  (Appendix 
XII)  and  1988  (Appendix  XIII).  An  abstract  was  submitted  and  accepted 
for  the  Las  Vegas  symposium  on  human  health  November  27-30,  1989 
(Appendix  XV) . 

A  chapter  entitled  "Air  Pollution  and  Exercise"  in  Current  Therapy 
in  Sports  Medicine  is  in  press. 

Acknowl edgemen ts 

We  would  like  to  thank  the  following  people  for  their  assistance  in 
the  study:  Longboat  Roadrunners  Club  and  its  members,  Luigi  Maestro, 
Smiley  Szeto,  Mary  Harpur,  Peter  Ashe,  Chuck  Pilger,  Alice  Au  Yeung , 
Kerrie  Cheung,  Scott  Thomas,  Pat  McClean,  Phil  Kiely,  Dr.  R.  Volpe  and 
the  field  staff. 


*1b13tDDDDDfi25T* 


