AD-A221  106 


REPORT  DOCUMENTATION  PAGE 

Form  Approved 

OMB  NO  0704-0188 

•*\;0'ic  r«»o-:r?  **“  c^rae*  T*r  ’•’n  -  er:?n  .*  n»or*» «i5*  it**d  *•}  t.encf  ‘  •'•~ur  •:»(  '<»sDcrse  "cuding  !!*e  t-*?!*  *rr  {•fttrua'cnt  .eerm-m  •*«  w  —>  aatd  .jurr»i 

;air ma  •*»  tmtunirvj  tr*»  oitj  reeoeo  mu  ccneo-etiro  .wo  "v**  mg  v*«» :  :!iw  cn  y  in«gr»«4ticn  >*no  rcmmentt  reojraw-j  t-i*  c^raen  -kt  mite  cr  irw  .:n«?r  nceci  y  ’"  s 
.'CH«t:3n  :•  I'-rmncr*.  I'tiuflin^  kuggeitwn*  *'r  '“Ouan/j  Wk  Sura*"  •  ;  aVwimqtcn  Hi»soavijrT**k  services.  C  rector  lie  "Or  ''«•«  cn  Ose'iUOnk  era  *»OCm.  -Z">  .e”erscn 
C4visr"q.“<v^»  s^ite  ’iCJ  Arlington,  .a  _’223r-4?C2  ino  t3  tn-»  ■}*♦  <■*  or  Man  iqe''”»ni  ina  Sud^et  pioerwor«  rreouction  O7"A-0 ’98).  .Visn  rqtcn.  _C  23SOJ 

1.  AGENCY  USE  ONLY  (Leave  Qtanx) 

2.  report  date 

APR  1990 

3.  REPORT  TYPE  ANO  DATES  COVERED 

FINAL  REPORT  JAN  1  ?88  -  DEC  31  ’89 

I  4.  TITLE  ANO  SUBTITLE 

1  MICROSCOPIC  THEORY  OF  NON-LINEAR  PHENOMENA  IN 
SEMICONDUCTOR  SUPERLATTICES 

5.  FUNDING  NUMBERS 

6.  AUTHOR(S) 

PROFESSOR  M.  JAROS 

7.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  ANO  AOORESS(ES) 

-  \ 

THE  UNIVERSITY  ✓'.NEWCASTLE  UPON  TYNE 

Physics  Department 

NE1  7RU,  England 

8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 

REPORT  NUMBER 

9.  SPONSORING  /MONITORING  AGENCY  NAME(S)  ANO  ADORESS(ES) 

OFFICE  OF  NAVAL  RESEARCH 

800  N.  Quincy  Street,  Code  1114 

Arlington,  VA  22217-5000 

10.  SPONSORING/  MONITORING 

AGENCY  REPORT  NUMBER 

11.  SUPPLEMENTARY  NOTES 

R  &  T  No.  4 14m0 14 - 01/02 

Contract  No.  N00014-88-J-1003 

12a.  DISTRIBUTION/ AVAILABILITY  STATEMENT 

AVAILABLE  DISTRIBUTION  FOR  SALE  TO  THE  PUBLIC 

DISTRIBUTION  UNLIMITED 

12b.  DISTRIBUTION  CODE 

13.  ABSTRACT  (Maximum  200  words) 


i-  -  ■ 


elects 

APR  2  5  1930 


& 


0 


I 


14.  SUBJECT  TERMS 

15.  NUMBER  OF  PAGES 

12 

16.  PRICE  CODE 

17.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION 

18.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION 

19.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICATION 

20.  LIMITATION  OF  ABSTRACT 

OF  REPORT 

OF  THIS  PAGE 

OF  ABSTRACT 

UNCLASSIFIED 

UNCLASSIFIED 

UNCLASSIFIED 

MSN  75*^0-01 -280-S500  Stanoara  Form  298  '.Rev  2-89) 


pretcroeo  D>  ANSi  Srd  J39-:9 
298- ’j: 


OFFICE  OF  NAVAL  RESEARCH 


PUBLICATIONS 


January  1,  1988  -  December  31  1989 

for 

Contract  N00014-S8-J-100.3 

S  &  T  No  414m014  — 01/02 

MICROSCOPIC  THEORY  OF  NON-LINEAR  PHENOMENA  IN  SEMICONDUCTOR 
SUPERLATTICES 

Prof.  M.Jaros 
Physics  Department, 

The  University,  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  NE1  7RU 


Reproduction  in  whole,  or  in  part,  is  permitted  for  any  purpose  of  the 
United  States  Government. 


*  This  document  has  been  approved  for  public  release  and  sale;  its 
distribution  is  unlimited, 


January  1990 


90  04  23  164 


Publications  1988  -  1989 


a.  Papers  submitted  to  Refereed  Journals  and  n^L  yet  published 

J. P.  Hagan,  X.  Jaros  and  D.C.  Herbert,  The  effect  of  band  structure  on 
Stark  shifts  in  GaAs  quantum  wells,  Phys.  Rev.  B 

L.D.L.  Brown,  M.  Jaros  and  D.C.  Herbert,  Large  intersubband  infrared 
transitions  in  GaAs-GaAlAs  super latices,  Phys.  Rev.  B 

L.D.L. Brown,  X. Jaros  and  D.J.Valford,  The  splitting  of  the  states 
derived  from  the  bulk  X  minima  in  GaAs-AlAs  superlattices,  Phys.  Rev.  B 

L. D.L. Brown  and  M.  Jaros,  Pressure  induced  momentum  mixing  in  GaAs-AlAs 
superlattices,  Phys.  Rev.  B 

R.J.Turton  and  M. Jaros,  Optimum  Si-SiGe  structures  with  strong  infrared 
spectra,  Applied  Physics  Lett 

M.  Jaros,  K.B.Vong  and  R.J.Turton,  Optical  properties  of  Si-Ge 
superlattices,  J.  Electronic  Materials 

K. B.Wong,  R.J.Turton  and  M. Jaros,  Optical  properties  of  perfect  and 
imperfect  Si-Ge  superlattices,  Proc.  Europ.  Mat.  Res.  Soc. 

I. Morrison,  M. Jaros  and  A.V.Beavis,  Large  optical  nonlinearities  in 
semiconductor  superlattices,  Appl.  Phys.  Lett, 

L. D.L. Brown,  R.J.Turton  and  M. Jaros,  Momentum  mixing  enhancement  of  the 
conduction  band  non-parabolicity  in  GaS-GaAlAs,  GaAs-GaPAs,  and  Si-SiGe 
superlattices,  Super lattices  and  Microstructures 


Publications  1988  -  1989 


M.Jaros,  Electronic  structure  calculations,  in  Computational  Physics, 
Dp.  108-165  (SUSS,  Edinburgh  1988>  Ed.  R.D.  Kenway  and  G.S. Pawley 

T.V. Steiner,  D.J. Wolford,  T.F.Kuech  and  M.Jaros,  Auger  decay  of  X-point 
excitons  in  type  II  GaAs-GaAlAs  superlattice,  Superlattices  and 
Microstructures  4,  227  (1988) 

M.Jaros,  Simple  analytical  model  for  heterojunction  band  offsets,  Phys. 
Rev.  B37,  7112  <1988) 

K.B.Vong,  M.Jaros,  I.  Morrison,  and  J.P.Hagon,  Electronic  structure  and 
optical  properties  of  Si-Ge  superlattice,  Phys.  Rev.  Lett.  60,  2221 
(1988) 


L.D.L.  Brown  and  M.Jaros,  Momentum  mixing  enhancement  of  band  non- 
parabolicity  in  GaAs-GaAlAs  superlattices,  Semic.  Science  and  Technol . 
3,  40  (1988) 


I. Morrison  and  M.Jaros,  Electronic  and  optical 
Si-Ge  superlattices,  Phys.  Rev.  B37,  916  (1968) 


properties  of  ultrathin 


L.D.L.  Brown  and  M.Jaros,  Strain  induced  conduction  band  non- 
parabollcity  in  GaAs-GaAsP  superlattices,  Phys.  Rev.  B37,  4306  (1988) 


M.Jaros,  On  linearity  of  valence  band  discontinuity  in  heterojunctions 
with  Te  based  1 1— VI  semiconductors:  CdTe,  HgTe  and  ZnTe,  Phys  Rev  Lett 
60,  2560  (1988) 

K.B.Vong  and  M.Jaros,  Optical  spectra  of  a  (SiGe)»  quantum  well 
structure  in  an  external  electric  field,  Appl.  Phys.  Lett.  53,  657 

(1988) 

O'.t 


D. J.Volford,  T.F.Kuech,  T.  W.  Steiner,  J.  A.  Bradley,  M.A.Gell,  D.Nlnno  and 
M.  Jaros,  Electronic  Structure  of  quantum  well  states  revealed  under  high 
pressure,  Superlattices  and  Microstructures  4,  525  (1983) 

K.B.tfong,  I. Morrison  and  M. Jaros,  Optical  properties  of  ultrathin 
superlattices,  J.Vac.  Sci.  Technol.  B6,  1346  (1988) 

E. J. Austin  and  M. Jaros,  Cooment  on  Exact  calculations  of  quasi-bound 
states  of  an  isolated  quantum  well  with  uniform  electric  field:  Quantum 
well  Stark  resonances,  Phys.  rev.  B  38,  6326  (1988) 

R.J.Turton,  M. Jaros  and  I. Morrison,  Electronic  structure  and  non- 
parabolicity  in  strained  layer  Si-SIGe  superlattices,  Phys.  Rev.  B38, 
8397  (1988) 

R.J.Turton  and  M. Jaros,  Intersubband  optical  transitions  in  Si-SiGe 
superlatlces,  Appl.  Phys.  Lett.  54,  1986  (1989) 

M.  Jaros,  On  Optical  properties  of  Si-Ge  superlattices,  Phys.  Rev.  Lett. 
62,  976  (1989) 

T.  V.  Steiner,  D.J.Volford,  S.V.Tazer,  T.F.Kuech  and  M.  Jaros, 
Recombination  mechanisms  in  a  type  II  GaAs-GaAlAs  superlattice,  in  Band 
structure  engineering  in  semiconductor  microstructures,  Plenum  Press, 
H.Y.  1989,  Eds.  R.  A.  Abram  and  M. Jaros 


c.  Books  (and  sections  thereof)  Submitted  For  Publication 


M.  Jaros,  Microscopic  Theory  of  Ordered  Superlattices,  to  appear  in 
Semiconductors  and  Seaimetals,  Guest  Editor  T.P. Pearsall  (At&T) 

d.  Books  <and  sections  thereof )  Published 

M.  Jaras,  L.D.L.  Brown  and  R.J.Turtan,  Band  structure  engineering  of  non¬ 
linear  response  in  semiconductor  superlattices  in  Optical  Switching  in 
Low  Dimensional  Systems,  p.301  (1989)  Plenum  Press  Eds.  G.  Haug  and 

K. Balanyi 

M.  Jaros,  Physics  and  Applications  of  Semiconductor  Microstructures, 
Oxford  Univ.  Press,  Oxford  1989 

g.  Invited  Presentations  at  Topical  or.. Scientific  Conferences 

M.  Jaros,  1. Interd.  Res.  Centre  Meeting  on  DX  defects,  (U.K.)  Imperial 
College,  London,  Nov.  1988 

2.  Annual  Solid  State  Conf.  (U.K.)  Nottingham  ,  Dec.  1988 

3.  Electronic  Material  Conf . (U. S. A. ) ,  Boston,  June  1989 

4.  Annual  Crystal  Growth  Conf. (U.K. ),  Cardiff,  Sept.  1989 

5. Int.  Vacuum  and  Surface  Congress  (Germany),  Cologne  ,  Sept. 
1989 

6.  Annual  Solid  State  Conf.  (U.K.)  Warwick,  Dec.  1989 

h.  Contributed  Freaeatatlans  at  , Topical,  or  Scientific  Conferences 

NATO  workshop  on  Optical  Switching  ,  Marbella,  Oct.  1988 
Europ.  Condensed  Matter  Conf.,  Nice,  March  1989 
Europ.  Mater.  Res.  Soc.  Meeting,  Strasbourg,  May-June  1989 
Int.  Conf.  on  1 1— VI  semiconductors,  Berlin,  Sept.  1989 


1 


FI UAL  REPORT 


GENERAL  RESEARCH  ACTIVITY 

In  addition  to  the  publication  activity  reported  above  I  have  made  a 
number  of  presentations  and  visits  associated  with  this  research 
program.  October  88:  presented  a  paper  at  the  NATO  workshop  on  Optical 
Switching  at  Marbella,  Spain.  November  88  :  Meeting  on  Application  of 
Parallel  Processing  in  Band  Theory,  SERC  Daresbury  Laboratory, 
Warrington,  U.K.,  DTI  Sponsored  Meeting  on  Advanced  Electronic 
Materials,  London,  three  day  visit  at  RSRE  Malvern.  In  Nov.  an  invited 
talk  at  the  Interd.  Res.  Center  Meeting  on  DX  defects  (Imperial 
College).  In  December  I  attended  the  Annual  Solid  State  Conference  in 
Nottingham  where  I  presented  an  invited  paper.  March  85:  paper  at  the 
European  Condensed  Matter  Conf . ,  Nice,  France.  April:  Meeting  of  the 
organising  committee  of  the  Electronic  Materials  Conference,  Chicago, 
attended  APS  meeting  at  San  Louis,  and  one  week  visit  at  IBM  Yorktown 
Heights  N. Y.  May-June:  paper  at  the  European  Materials  Society  Meeting  , 
Strasbourg,  France,  invited  paper  at  the  Boston  Electronic  Materials 
Conference,  one  week  visit  at  IBM,  Yorktown  Heights  ,  N.Y.,  one  day 
visit  at  Fort  Monmouth.  September:  invited  paper  at  the  Annual  Crystal 
Growth  Conf.  Cardiff,  U.K.  ,  Invited  paper  at  the  Surface  Congress, 
Cologne,  contrib.  paper  at  the  Conf.  on  1 1 —VI  Semicond. ,  Berlin,  invited 
paper  at  the  Annual  Solid  State  Conference  at  Warwick.  I  had  organised  a 
total  of  12  days  visits  by  researchers  from  U.K.  and  Italy  at  Newcastle. 
During  this  session,  I  finalised  an  invited  review  article  on 
Microscopic  Theory  of  Ordered  Superlattices  which  will  appear  in 
Semiconductors  and  Semimetals  as  part  of  a  two  volume  book  devoted  to 
strained  layer  systems,  guest  editor  T.P. Pearsall  (AT&T). 


2 


SUXMARY  OF  RESEARCH 

The  most  important  canlusions  obtained  in  the  course  of  the  work 
carried  out  in  Newcastle  as  part  of  this  project  are  as  follows. 

1.  In  our  articles  published  in  the  Physical  Review  Letters  and  in 
Applied  Physics  Letters  on)  Si-Ge  superlattices,  and  in  the  subsequent 
public  polemic  inspired  by  these  papers,  we  have  a>  refuted  the 
explanation  of  optical  spectra  advocated  by  ATSiT  Lab  (Hybertsen,  Lang  et 
al),'  b)provided  the  first  clear  cut  argument  that  shows  the  Importance 
of  defects  and  interface  roughness  in  interpreting  experimental  data; 
this  is  now  an  accepted  status  quo,  cht)  demonstrated  the  first 

quantitative  study  on  finite  superlatticesr  with  qualitatively _ new 

features  such  new  levels,  new  form  of  wave  functions  <  e.g.  dominance  of 
large  wells  over  small  wells  in  the  formation  of  envelope  functions), 
and  localisation  at  interfaces 

>  2.  Ve  have  -presented  a  quantitative  study  of  the  role  of  non-- ideal 

in.t&ri.ace.s — ll^e. .,_t.hase  .why re  the  two  diaensiQnaL_transiallafta.lr,s.yaaetry 

in — Ills _ Interlace _ plane _ is  not  fully  preserved).  Ours  are  the  first 

attempt  of  this  kind  and  our  method  the  only  one  at  present  capable  of 
dealing  with  a  problem  of  this  dimension  at  microscopic  level.  These 
studies  open  the  way  far  realistic  studies  of  interface  effects  upon 
transport  and  optical  observables  which  play  a  key  role  in  device 
modelling.  This  is  also  the  first  step  towards  astablishing  a 
microscopic  signature  of  the  interface  whlcvh  one  of  the  outstanding 
problems  la  the  field  of  hfi.t&CQStrue£.urfisJ_ 

-'3.  We— harvp  demonstarted  the  possibility  to  study, real  geometry 
structures  under  strong  external  flplris 

4.  We— bavp  presented  a  fresh  picture  of  the  valley  mixing  which 
occurs  when  states  of  different  bulk  momenta  cross,  for  example  in  GaAs- 
AlAs  structures  under  hydrostatic  pressure  or  under  the  influence  of  a 
strong  external  electric  field.  In  particular,  we  showed  that  the 
picture  based  on  particle  in  a  box  perturbative  models  falls  to 
represent  correctly  even  the  symmetry  related  features  predicted  in  our 
theory  and  seen  in  experiments.  In  particular,  we  have  demonstarted  that 


3 


this  mixing  can  be  used  to  study  the  Interface  quality  on  the  scale  of 
interatomic  separation. 

We  have  used  our  computational  scheme  to  study  splitting  of  the 
states  derived  from  the  secondary  X  minima  and  the  recombination  rates 
in  narrow  well  GaAs-AlAs  superlattices  under  hydrostatic  pressure.  We 
find  that  in  narrow  wells  the  localisation  of  confined  states  leads  to  a 
breakdown  of  the  second  order  perturbation  mechanism  concerning  the 
coupling  of  bulk  states  across  the  Brillouin  2one.  We  have  implemented 
our  scheme  to  provide  a  detailed  picture  of  the  spectra  related  to  the 
splitting  of  states  derived  from  secondary  valleys  in  superlattices. 
These  states  are  a  sensitive  probe  of  interface  properties. 

We  have  used  our  method  to  predict  novel  structures  with  infrared 
transitions  in  GaAs  and  Si-Ge  microstructures.  In  particular,  we  have 
presented  to  our  collaborators  optimised  structures  in  which  the 
infrared  transitions  can  be  used  as  a  means  of  optically  characterising 
these  naterials. 

We  have  developed  and  implemented  a  computational  scheme  which 
enables  us  to  model  the  electronic  structure  and  electron  transitions  of 
quantum  well  systems  in  the  presence  of  strong  external  electric  fields 
without  having  to  resort  to  approximate  treatment.  The  long  term  general 
objective  of  this  effort  is  to  provide  a  basis  for  realistic  modelling 
of  vertical  device  structures  such  as  the  resonant  tunnelling 
structures,  hot  electron  transistor  with  a  superlattice  base,  and  novel 
integrated  optoelectronic  structures.  The  first  stage  of  this  programme 
has  been  completed  and  implemented  to  study  three  specific  structures. 
We  find  that  the  band  structure  effect  at  high  fields  and  in  structures 
with  narrow  wells  and  superlattices  is  quite  significant  and  we  have 
identified  its  influence  on  local  velocity  changes  in  such  structures. 

We  have  modelled  the  electronic  structure  of  polar  interfaces  (e.g. 
GaAs-Ge  and  showed,  in  agreement  with  experiment,  that  a  significant 
aspect  of  the  present  understanding  of  the  formation  of  localised 
interface  states  stems  from  idealisations  used  in  previous  models  of 
such  systems. 


4 

IHTRODUCTIOH 


The  interest  for  a  theorist  in  semiconductor  microstructures  stems 
from  the  possibility  of  momentum  mixing  in  such  structures.  This  also 
makes  these  systems  highly  “non-linear".  Son-linearity  is  therefore  a 
typical  “band  structure"  effect  which  cannot  be  accounted  for  by  simple 
methods.  The  manifestations  of  such  momentum  mixing  we  have  investigated 
include  coupling  of  states  associated  with  the  principal  and  secondary 
minima  in  the  conduction  band  of  GaAs-AlAs,  Sl-Ge  ,  Ge-Sn,  Si-Sn,  with 
and  without  the  presence  of  external  fields,  finite  structures  of 
certain  geometry,  interface  roughness,  coupling  of  bulk  bands  due  to 
strain,  in  narrow  wells  and  barriers,  and  at  indirect  interfaces. 

In  the  light  of  these  considerations,  we  have  Invested  most  of  our 
efforts  into  developing  new  programmes  in  such  a  way  that  it  is  possible 
to  Include  the  effect  of  the  breakdown  of  the  translational  symmetry 
bath  along  the  growth  axis  and  in  the  Interface  plane,  and  the  effect  of 
{weak  or  strong)  electric  field,  without  truncating  the  description  of 
the  electronic  structure.  Ours  is  the  first  effort  to  account  for 
deviations  from  strictly  periodic  order.  Vhile  a  number  of  efforts  have 
been  reported  in  the  literature  to  account  for  the  effect  of  an 
external  electric  field  upon  the  electronic  structure  of  quantum  wells, 
these  studies  have  been  confined  to  simple  tunnelling  problems  and 
constrained  by  the  limitations  of  the  transfer  matrix  technique.  This 
means  that  either  only  the  simplest  structures  can  be  modelled  (e.g.  a 
step-like  barrier  potentials)  or  that  the  host  band  structure  must  be 
severely  truncated.  In  essence  one  has  to  be  able  to  include  in  the 
model  a  giant  block  consisting  of  many  hundreds  of  atoms  so  that  one  can 
not  only  describe  the  effect  of  quantum  confinement  and  electric  field 
upon  this  microstructure  but  also  retain  the  signature  of  the  finite 
nature  of  the  system.  This  is  often  difficult  to  achieve  even  with 
techniques  based  on  straightforward  wave  function  matching  since  one 
still  has  to  specify  the  boundary  conditions  for  the  incoming  and 
outgoing  waves.  Our  method  of  calculation  is  well  suited  to  such 
requirements  since  we  can  deal  with  very  large  devices  of  virtually 
arbitrary  geometry  and  composition. 


5 


MOMENTUM  MIXING  PHENOMENA 

Specific  momentum  mixing  phenomena  have  been  studied  in  an  effort  to 
address  topical  problems  and  in  the  context  and  as  a  continuation  of 
complementary  projects  in  Newcastle.  A  brief  summary  of  some  key  results 
highly  relevant  to  the  objectives  of  this  project  are  outlined  below. 
Some  of  these  results  have  already  been  published. 

We  have  performed  pseudopotential  calculations  of  the  nonparabolicity  at 
the  conduction  band  minima  of  a  wide  range  of  GaAs-GaAlAs,  GaAs-GaAsP 
and  Si-SiGe  superlatices  and  showed  that  the  position  and  dispersion  of 
higher  lying  minbands  strongly  affect  the  virtual  transitions 
determining  the  conduction  band  nonparabolicity  at  the  band  minimum  and 
elsewhere,  and  the  nonlinear  response  of  conduction  electrons  in 
general.  The  role  of  strain  upon  the  response  function  was  also 
identified. 

We  have  studied  the  momentum  mixing  enhancement  of  zone-folding  effects 
in  type-two  superlattices  (e.g.  Si-Ge,  GaAs-AlAs)  and  showed  that  the 
finite  nature  of  the  structure  (for  instance  in  the  five  well  structures 
of  Si-Ge  studied  by  electroreflectance  or  in  symmetric  GaAs-AlAs  MOW  and 
superlattices)  and  the  condition  at  the  interface  can  alter 
qualitatively  the  optical  spectra  associated  with  transitions  across 
the  gap.  Effects  such  as  localisation  at  interfaces,  the  effect  of 
external  electric  field,  and  changes  in  transition  probabilities  across 
the  gap  were  reported.  This  has  also  important  implications  for 
modelling  existing  single  and  double  heterojunction  devices  where 
analogous  finite  element  and  asymmetry  aspects  are  present.  Such  effects 
have  so  far  been  excluded  from  device  models  based  on  these  structures. 

A  paper  had  been  compiled  by  Hagon,  Wong  and  Jaros  concerning  our  study 
of  interface  states  at  polar  and  strained  interfaces  and  will  be 
published  as  part  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Surface  Congress  at  Cologne, 
Sept.  89  where  It  will  be  presented  as  part  of  an  Invited  paper.  Ve  show 
that  the  interface  localisation  strongly  reflects  the  degree  of 
Idealisation  in  previous  models.  In  particular,  for  imperfect  interfaces 


6 


we  da  not  expect  any  significant  interface  states. Indeed,  no  such  states 
inlying  metallic  behaviour  have  been  seen  experimentally. 

We  have  studied  pressure  dependence  of  cross  interface  optical  spectra 
in  structures  studied  by  Wolford  et  al  at  IBM  and  more  recently  by 
Skalnick  and  coworkers  at  RSRE.  We  show  that  the  quadratic  perturbation 
behaviour  of  the  coupling  between  bulk  states  across  the  Brillouin  none 
changes  to  quasi-linear  when  the  localisation  of  the  states  in  the 
superlatice  increases.  Although  this  process  may  be  altered  by  competing 
nonradiative  recombination  effects,  our  calculation  points  to  the 
importance  of  band  structure  effects  in  short  period  superiattices. 

In  a  separate  study  of  momentum  mixing  in  GaAs-AlAs,  we  have  identified 
new  structures  where  strong  optical  transitions  are  expected  in  the 
infrared  range  of  wavelenths. 

RESULTS  FOR  QUANTUM  STARK  EFFECT 

At  present  we  can  cope  with  systems  whose  characteristic  dimension  is  di 
order  5Q0A.  We  have  tested  our  scheme  on  a  single  and  double 
well/barrier  GaAs-GaAlAs  system.  We  find  that  the  quadratic  Star  > 
effect  in  the  familiar  double  barrier  structure  which  has  been 
frequently  studied  for  applications  in  resonant  tunnelling  devices 
actually  breaks  down  at  2xlOBV/cra,  i.e.  much  earlier  than  predicted  from 
simple  models.  The  energy  levels  of  the  Stark  resonance  represented  by 
the  peak  of  the  change  in  the  density  of  states  Induced  by  the  field, 
are  turning  rapidly  from  the  expected  quadratic  behaviour.  On  the  other 
hand  we  show  that  these  effects  are  not  directly  due  to  field  induced 
momentum  matrix  elements  as  is  commonly  believed  but  that  they  are 
structure  determined.  It  is  via  the  structural  parameters  that  the  band 
structure  effect  of  the  field  must  be  appreciated.  The  result  has  a 
number  of  interesting  implications  not  only  for  transport  but  also  for 
optical  switches  operated  by  excitonic  band  filling  in  quantum  wells. 

A  publication  on  the  subject  by  Hagon,  Jaros  and  Herbert  has  been 
accepted  in  the  Physical  review  B. 


7 


This  research  is  supported  in  part  by  the  University  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne  Research  Committee,  Science  and  Engineering  Research  Council  (UK), 
Executive  Procurement,  MOD  ,  RSRE  Malvern,  ESPRIT-Basic  research 
European  programme,  and  by  ONR.  Research  students  participating  in  this 
program  have  also  received  support  from  British  Telecom  and  General 
Electric  Company  (UK) . 


