Image  Cover  Sheet 


CLASSIFICATION 


UNCLASSIFIED 


TITLE 


AIRCREW/COCKPIT  COMPATIBILITY:  A  MULTIVARIATE  PROBLEM  SEEKING  A 
MULTIVARIATE  SOLUTION 


System  Number: 
Patron  Number: 
Requester: 


Notes : 


DSIS  Use  only: 


Deliver  to: 


7  o^l 


15-1 


2^ 


AIRCRE W/COC KPTF  COMPATIBILITY:  A  MULTIVARIATE  PROBLEM  SEEKING  A 

MULTIVARIATE  SOLUTION 
by 

Keith  C.  Hendy 

Defence  and  Civil  Institute  of  Environmental  Medicine 
North  York,  Ontario,  Canada  M3M  3B9 


SUMMARY 

/ ^Aircrew/cockpit  compatibility  depends  on  an  interaction  between  the  anthropometry  of  individual  aircrew  members  and  the 
geometry  of  the  cockpit  Selection  criteria  in  the  past  have  attempted  to  deal  with  this  interaction,  but  the  model  was  too  simple. 
This  is  a  multi-variate  problem  which  requires  a  multi-variate  solution.  Essentially  the  problem  is  one  of  charting  the  region  of 
intersection  between  the  anthropometric  data  domain  and  a  set  of  rules  or  criteria  which  define  ‘operability’.  The  nature  of  this 
problem  was  demonstrated  through  computer  simulated  fitting  trials  of  subjects  in  a  number  of  cockpit-like  geometries.  The 
simulations  clearly  demonstrate  that  membership  in  a  particular  category  of  ‘fit’  depends  on  interactions  between  workspace  and 
anthropometry  which  are  geometry  specific.  Further,  the  simulations  show  that  the  establishment  of  analytical  expressions  to 
define  class  membership  is  complex  and  appears  to  require  a  non-linear  approach.  The  consequences  of  these  results  are  dis¬ 
cussed  in  terms  of  establishing  selection  standards  and  determining  design  criteria  for  cockpits  which  are  compatible  with  these 
standards.  It  is  argued  that  cockpit  design  must  be  based  on  an  extensive  sampling  of  human  characteristics  in  order  that  the  full 
range  of  interactions,  between  various  anthropometric  dimensions  and  the  workspace,  is  represented. 


1.  INTRODUCTION 

It  is  assumed  that  the  purpose  of  applying  anthropometric  selection  criteria  is  to  screen  out  those  candidates  whose  physical 
characteristics  would  be  incompatible  with  the  workspaces  they  must  occupy  or  with  the  tools  and  equipment  they  must  use  in 
performing  their  duties.  Obviously,  selection  criteria  must  reflect  the  limitations  of  the  workplace  environment  if  this  goal  is  to 
be  achieved.  The  link  between  operator  selection  and  workspace  geometry  is  inseparable;  selection  criteria  should  reflect  the 
characteristics  of  the  work  environment,  and  workspace  design  should  reflect  anthropometric  selection  criteria.  In  practice  this 
is  seldom  the  case.  Anthropometric  selection  criteria  are  often  established  solely  within  the  domain  of  the  anthropometric  data, 
with  apparently  little  acknowledgement  that  ‘compatibility’  depends  on  the  interaction  between  the  anthropometric  characteris¬ 
tics  of  individual  subjects  and  workspace  geometry.  Generally,  selection  criteria  are  based  on  regions  of  acceptance,  typically 
established  independently  on  each  anthropometric  variable  of  interest.  Ranges  for  workspace  design  are  similarly  based. 

This  paper  examines  the  effects  of  interactions  between  individual  anthropometry  and  workspace  geometry  with  a  view  to 
establishing  the  consequences  of  these  interactions  in  developing  selection  strategies  and  guidelines  for  design.  The  problem  of 
defining  physical  compatibility  in  the  workspace,  is  essentially  one  of  charting  the  region  of  intersection  between  an  anthro¬ 
pometric  data  space  and  a  set  of  rules  or  criteria  which  define  ‘operability’  in  a  workspace.  The  non-linear  multi- variate  nature 
of  this  problem  is  demonstrated  through  computer  simulated  fitting  trials  of  subjects  in  a  number  of  cockpit-like  geometries.  The 
simulations  make  use  of  a  simple  sagittal  plane  manikin  to  represent  the  human  skeletal  form. 


2.  THE  NEED  FOR  A  MULTIVARIATE  DISTRIBUTED  APPROACH 

Recent  articles  and  letters  in  the  human  factors  literature  [1-3]  have  raised  the  issue  of  anthropometry  and  workspace 
design,  Kleeman’s  contribution  [3]  supports  the  contention  that  perhaps  all  is  not  well  with  some  of  the  established  methods  for 
applying  anthropometric  data  to  design,  however,  his  suggestion  to  extend  the  design  range  from  the  more  usual  5th  and  9 5th 
percentile  values  to  the  lsr  and  99th  values  may  be  begging  the  question.  Perhaps  the  problem  lies  less  with  which  percentile 
limits  are  chosen,  but  more  with  the  way  in  which  anthropometric  data  are  applied. 

The  problems  which  result  from  assuming  that  anthropometric  dimensions  arc  perfectly  correlated,  is  well  documented  [4- 
6]  and  it  is  recommended  that  multi-variate  techniques  be  used  in  an  effort  to  overcome  limitations  inherent  in  uni-variate 
methods  [7].  Yet  most  traditional  methods  for  the  application  of  anthropometric  data  are  uni-variate,  so  far  as  their  ability  to 
handle  correlations  between  anthropometric  variables  is  concerned.  Falling  within  this  category  is  the  most  common  procedure 
for  design,  that  is,  the  use  of  percentile  data  [8]  mapped  into  the  workspace  domain  through  graphical  procedures  [7],  drawing 
board  manikins  [9]  or  their  computer  generated  counterparts  [10-12]. 

Although  the  fallacy  of  the  average  man  is  well  recognized  [8],  it  would  seem  that  an  equally  fallacious  concept,  the  n- 
percentile  person ,  is  firmly  entrenched  within  traditional  methods.  In  making  this  claim  it  is  accepted  that  few  manikins,  for 
example,  are  made  entirely  from  segments  of  the  same  percentile,  that  is,  all  5th  or  all  95 th  percentile  values.  Rather  the  criti¬ 
cism  of  these  widely  used  methods  stems  from  their  limited,  often  non-existent,  ability  to  represent  the  range  of  individual 
differences  in  the  user  population  for  any  other  than  the  most  simple  of  workspace  geometries. 

A  notable  exception  to  this  approach  can  be  found  in  the  work  of  Bittner  et  al.  [13, 14].  They  argue  that  if  an  anthro¬ 
pometric  data  base  is  conceptualized  as  an  ^-dimensional  hyper-space,  then  a  relatively  small  number  of  suitably  chosen  mani¬ 
kins  could  characterize  the  hyper-ellipsoid  surface  which  encloses  any  given  proportion  of  a  user  population.  From  a  principle 
component  analysis,  the  hyper-space  was  estimated  to  be  approximately  4-dimensional  Normal,  giving  rise  to  a  ‘CADRE’  of  17 
manikins.  Although  the  17-member  CADRE  is  intended  primarily  for  workspace  design,  it  is  possible  that  this  approach  could 
be  adapted  to  the  development  of  selection  criteria.  However,  CADRE  is  founded  on  the  belief  that  points  on  a  hyper-surface 
which  enclose  a  given  proportion  of  the  population  data,  will  retain  this  property  after  transformation  from  the  domain  of  the 
anthropometric  data  into  the  workspace  domain.  This  may  not  be  the  case  with  certain  workspace  geometries.  There  exists  the 
possibility  that  the  requirement  to  manipulate  the  position  of  operators  to  satisfy  various  criteria  such  as  vision  and  reach,  will 


15-2 


cause  points  lying  within  the  enclosing  surface  in  the  space  of  the  anthropometric  variables  to  be  mapped  into  regions  external 
to  the  transformed  enclosing  surface  in  the  workspace  domain.  Such  a  hypothesized  region  is  illustrated  in  Figure  1  (Region  A). 


Variable  1 

Figure  1 .  Hypothesized  rejection  regions  in  anthropometric  space . 


Even  if  closed  regions  of  the  type  discussed  above  do  not  exist,  there  are  other  problems  with  CADRE.  Sixteen  manikins 
in  CADRE  are  located  on  the  hyper-ellipsoid  enclosing  surface,  at  the  ends  of  an  oblique  axes  system,  which  encloses  94%  of 
the  population  data.  The  final  manikin  is  located  at  the  centroid.  This  provides  for  a  sparse  description  of  the  enclosing  surface, 
and  a  rejection  region  may  not  be  sampled  by  the  limited  representation  provided  by  CADRE  (e.g.  Region  B  in  Figure  1). 
Although  this  problem  could  be  addressed  by  a  more  detailed  sampling  of  the  enclosing  surface,  a  final  objection  remains. 
Designing  for  a  n-member  CADRE  constrains  a  rejection  region  to  be  tangent  to  the  enclosing  surface  and  never  to  cut  it  (e.g. 
Region  C  in  Figure  1).  Once  the  rejection  region  cuts  the  enclosing  surface,  the  actual  proportion  of  rejections  can  not  be 
predicted  by  this  n-member  set.  The  net  result  is  a  conservative  design,  at  least  for  those  design  areas  not  related  to  operator 
safety  or  critical  performance.  That  is,  actual  rejection  rates  will  generally  be  less  than  the  6%  that  might  be  expected  from 
designing  for  manikins  located  on  a  94%  enclosing  surface. 

Therefore,  in  order  to  deal  with  the  range  of  individual  anthropometric  differences  and  to  know  the  rejection  rates  resulting 
from  specific  design  or  selection  decisions,  it  is  argued  that  not  only  is  a  multi-variate  approach  required,  but  this  approach  must 
sample  throughout  the  entire  data  space.  Such  distributed  multi-variate  representations  have  been  used  in  a  number  of  areas 
related  to  workspace  design  and  assessment  [13, 15, 16].  The  power  of  these  methods  comes  from  their  representation,  to  an 
accuracy  determined  by  the  level  of  sampling  and  the  fidelity  of  the  modelling  process,  of  the  full  range  of  interactions  between 
anthropometric  dimensions  and  the  workspace. 


3.  THE  SIMULATION  PROGRAM 

The  Simulated  Anthropometric  Fitting  Trial  (SAFT)  software  is  a  PASCAL  program  for  PC  or  PC  compatible  computers, 
which  simulates  an  anthropometric  compatibility  check  of  human  subjects  in  a  simple  seated  workstation  geometry.  The  simula¬ 
tion  is  based  on  the  five-link  sagittal  plane  manikin  [15]  shown  in  Figure  2.  Manikins  are  defined  by  five  anthropometric  vari¬ 
ables.  Link  lengths  are  calculated  by  a  monte-carlo  process  which,  by  a  random  sampling  throughout  the  anthropometric  data 
space,  matches  the  means,  standard  deviations  and  correlation  matrix  of  the  5-dimensional  distribution  from  which  the  variables 
are  drawn.  All  variables  are  constrained  to  lie  within  3.5cr  of  their  mean  value.  This  arbitrary  truncation  avoids  the  occurrence  of 
extreme  outlyers.  Workspace  geometries  are  defined  in  terms  of  a  vision  line,  a  seat  adjustment  ramp,  seat  geometry,  instrument 
panel  location,  floor  line,  and  a  range  of  heel  points  for  pedal  location  and  adjustment. 

The  simulation  attempts  to  fit  each  member  of  a  group  of  manikins  (up  to  1900)  into  a  workspace  according  to  a  set  of 

mles;  for  example,  eye  on  or  above  the  vision  line,  seat  reference  point  on  the  seat  ramp,  and  heel  on  the  floor  line  within  a 

given  range.  Manikins  are  divided  into  categories  according  to  their  ‘fit*  in  the  workspace.  Fit  is  defined  in  terms  of  reach  to 

panel  and  floor,  heel  within  the  range  of  adjustment,  and  trunk  and  knee  angles  within  defined  ranges. 

The  manikin’s  posture  is  determined  by  the  seat  parameters  used  for  the  simulation  (i.e.  the  seat  back  and  seat  pan  angles 
determine  the  eye  link,  trunk  link  and  thigh  link  angles).  When  each  manikin  is  fitted  into  the  workspace,  the  fitting  algorithm 
first  places  each  eye  point  and  seat  reference  point  (SRP)  on  the  vision  line  and  seat  ramp  line  respectively.  From  this  position, 
reach  to  the  panel  is  tested.  If  the  panel  is  within  the  manikin’s  reach  no  further  seat  adjustment  is  made  at  this  stage.  If  the 
panel  is  outside  the  manikin’s  reach,  up  to  5  degrees  of  seat  rotation  about  the  SRP  is  used  in  an  attempt  to  improve  the  situa¬ 
tion.  No  translation  of  the  SRP  is  allowed.  Seat  rotation  halts  when  the  reach  criterion  is  satisfied.  Any  manikin  that  fails  to 
reach  the  panel  under  maximum  seat  rotation,  is  held  in  this  final  posture  for  the  lower  body  assessments. 


15-3 


alpha 


Link  AT  =  Functional  Reach  +  125 
AS  =  Acromial  Height  -1 0 
SP  =  O.Q5(Buttock  to  Knee  Length) 
PK  =  0.20(Buttock  to  Knee  Length) 
HP  =  Popliteal  Height  +  45 
z  =  Eye  Height  - Acromial  Height 


AB  *  [(z^+  27E?  )cos{arctan(275/zae)-(a/p/7a-15)}f  ’5 
EB  «  [(/  +  2752)sin{arctan(275/zae  )-(a/p/7a-15)}]0'5 


All  dimensions  in  mm 


Figure  2.  Five  link  sagittal  plane  model  used  in  SAFT . 


Once  the  panel  reach  assessment  is  complete,  reach  to  the  floor  line  is  tested.  If  the  heel  point  can  not  be  located  on  the 
floor  line,  remaining  seat  rotation  is  used  in  an  effort  to  find  an  intersection.  Finally,  the  heel  point  is  tested  against  the  pedal 
adjustment  range.  Those  manikins  which  fail  to  reach  the  rearmost  heel  position  can  use  seat  rotation,  up  to  the  maximum 
allowable,  in  order  to  come  within  range.  Those  manikins  with  heel  points  ahead  of  the  forward  limiting  heel  position,  have 
their  heel  points  brought  back  to  this  position.  Trunk/thigh  and  knee  angles  are  checked  for  range  at  this  stage. 

Manikins  are  classified  into  groups  according  to  the  compatibility  test  failed.  There  are  four  tests  for  acceptable  fit,  and 
manikins  may  fail  one  or  more  tests.  Hie  tests  are: 

Test  1-  arm  reach  to  the  instrument  panel; 

Test  2-  leg  reach  to  the  floor. 

Test  3-  heel  point  ahead  of  the  rearmost  allowable  position;  and 

Test  4 -  thigh/trunk  angle  greater  than  85  degrees  and  knee  angle  greater  than  90  degrees. 


4.  PROCEDURE 

Input  data  for  the  monte  carlo  simulation  were  obtained  from  the  1985  survey  of  Canadian  Forces  Aircrew  [17].  While  the 
data  from  this  survey  are  for  a  largely  male  population,  the  principle  results  of  the  simulation  should  generalize  to  any  popula¬ 
tion,  regardless  of  nationality  or  gender.  The  correlation  matrix,  means,  and  standard  deviations  for  the  5  variables  used  in 
SAFT  are  shown  in  Table  1. 

Simulated  fitting  trials  were  run  for  two  geometries.  Seat  ramp  angles  of  30  and  1 10  degrees  were  used.  In  both  cases  the 
vision  line  was  set  at  11  degrees  below  the  horizontal,  the  trunk  link  angle  (a)  at  25  degrees  and  the  thigh  link  angle  (P)  at  10 
degrees  (see  Figure  3).  The  positions  of  panel,  floor  and  heel  ranges,  were  chosen  to  achieve  approximately  10%  rejection  rates, 
from  a  population  of  1900  manikins,  for  each  of  the  4  tests  of  ‘fit*. 

As  a  further  test  on  the  requirement  for  a  distributed  approach,  a  CADRE  of  17  manikins  were  produced  from  the  percen¬ 
tile  values  given  in  Bittner  et  al.  [14]  (see  Table  2).  The  percentile  values  were  first  turned  into  z-scores  and  then  into  anthro¬ 
pometric  values  using  the  means  and  standard  deviations  from  Table  1.  Only  the  five  variables  required  by  SAFT  were  used  in 
these  calculations.  Using  the  same  vision  angle  and  seat  geometry  (i.e.  a  and  P)  described  above  ,  and  with  a  seat  ramp  angle  of 
30  degrees,  a  workspace  was  created  (i.e.  panel,  floor  and  heel  locations)  that  satisfied  the  complete  set  of  17  manikins  on  all 
tests  of  fit.  This  geometry  was  then  tested  using  10  independently  created  populations  (N=1000)  of  SAFT  manikins. 

TABLE  1 

Correlation  matrix,  means  and  standard  deviations  used  for  the  monte  carlo  simulation  in  SAFT. 


Correlations 

Eye  Ht. 
(Sitting) 

Functional 

Reach 

Buttock  to 
Knee  Lt. 

Acromial  Ht. 
(Sitting) 

Popliteal 

Height 

Eye  Ht.  (Sitting) 

0.464 

0.438 

0.823 

0.492 

Functional  Reach 

0.721 

0.488 

0.752 

Buttock  to  Knee  Lt 

0.496 

0.766 

Acromial  Ht  (Sitting) 

0.491 

Mean  f 

80.6 

79.4 

60.9 

60.6 

45.1 

Standard  Dev.  f 

3.43 

3.88 

2.77 

2.85 

2.27 

f  anthropometric  variables  in  cm. 


15-4 


Figure  3.  SAFT  workspace  geometry. 


TABLE  2 

Percentile  values  used  to  produce  the  17  manikin  set  for  CADRE. 


Manikin 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Eye  Ht  (Sitting) 

97.2 

93.5 

91.2 

28.5 

93.8 

82.8 

16.5 

87.2 

12.8 

Functional  Reach 

97.3 

76.3 

89.6 

92.2 

68.2 

51.6 

58.0 

22.9 

77.1 

Buttock  to  Knee  Lt. 

98.5 

61.7 

81.4 

95.6 

92.4 

16.5 

43.6 

33.3 

66.7 

Acromial  Ht.  (Sitting) 

95.7 

90.0 

86.9 

36.8 

91.4 

75.5 

22.0 

82.5 

17.5 

Popliteal  Ht. 

97.6 

63.8 

96.7 

90.7 

66.7 

58.6 

38.3 

11.7 

88.3 

Manikin 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

Eye  Ht.  (Sitting) 

83.5 

17.2 

6.2 

71.5 

8.8 

6.5 

2.8 

50.0 

Functional  Reach 

42.0 

48.4 

31.8 

7.8 

10.4 

23.7 

2.7 

50.0 

Buttock  to  Knee  Lt. 

56.4 

83.5 

7.6 

4.4 

18.6 

38.3 

1.5 

50.0 

Acromial  Ht  (Sitting) 

78.0 

24.5 

8.6 

63.2 

13.1 

10.0 

4.3 

50.0 

Popliteal  Ht 

61.7 

41.4 

33.3 

9.3 

3.3 

36.2 

2.4 

50.0 

5.  RESULTS 

The  interaction  between  workspace  geometry  and  anthropometry  is  demonstrated  by  the  Test  1  (reach  to  panel)  failures  for 
seat  ramp  angles  of  30  and  1 10  degrees  (see  Figure  4).  For  the  30  degree  seat  ramp  angle,  the  surface  of  separation  between 
manikins  that  pass  Test  1,  versus  those  that  fail,  can  be  described  by  a  linear  relation  between  Eye  Height  (Sitting)  and  Func¬ 
tional  Reach  (with  a  small  effect  due  to  Acromial  Height).  For  this  geometry.  Test  1  failures  have  little  or  no  dependency  on  the 
remaining  anthropometric  variables.  A  discriminant  analysis  [18]  confirmed  this  claim  (a  linear  discriminant  function  in  Func¬ 
tional  Reach  and  Eye  Height  achieved  close  to  perfect  discrimination).  Note  that  the  rejection  region  spans  a  large  part  of  the 
range  of  both  variables,  hence,  incompatibility  is  not  simply  a  function  of  being  large  or  small  but  rather  depends  on  a  critical 
combinations  of  the  two  variables.  For  the  1 10  degree  seat  ramp  (typical  of  ejection  seat  geometry),  the  rejection  region  appears 
in  a  different  part  of  the  anthropometric  domain.  Again  the  separation  boundary  is  largely  linearly  dependent  on  Functional 
Reach  and  Eye  Height ,  although  the  partial  overlap  between  the  rejection  and  acceptance  regions  in  Figure  4  suggests  other 
dimensions  are  involved.  A  discriminant  analysis  showed  that  a  linear  discriminant  function  in  Functional  Reach ,  Eye  Height 
and  Acromial  Height  could  precisely  categorize  the  data  into  acceptable  and  rejection  regions.  Note  from  Figure  4,  that  the  Test 
1  failures  for  the  1 10  degree  seat  ramp  geometry  can  be  separated  largely  on  the  basis  of  Functional  Reach  alone. 

Whereas  panel  reach  depended  on  linear  transformations  of  two  or  three  anthropometric  variables,  the  location  of  heel 
points  on  the  floor  line  involves  non-linear  transformations  (i.e.  sine  and  cosine  relationships)  and  depends  on  all  five  anthro¬ 
pometric  variables.  In  Figure  5,  the  Test  3  failures  are  plotted  against  three  of  the  five  anthropometric  variables  used  in  SAFT. 
Examination  of  these  data  under  various  axes  combinations  and  rotations,  using  a  3-dimensional  data  analysis  package  (MACS- 
PIN  2.0  [19]),  failed  to  disclose  a  simple  structure  for  the  boundary  of  separation  between  the  Test  3  failures  and  the  region  of 
acceptable  characteristics.  Within  the  domains  examined,  the  region  of  Test  3  failures  and  the  region  of  acceptable  anthro¬ 
pometric  characteristics  are  highly  confounded.  Both  standard  discriminant  analysis  [18]  and  canonical  discriminant  [20]  analysis 
were  performed  on  these  data.  The  Test  3  failures  could  not  be  separated  from  the  acceptable  region  by  either  of  these  linear 
techniques.  This  is  demonstrated  in  Figure  6,  where  the  first  two  canonical  variables  are  plotted  for  each  category  of  fit.  No 
other  combination  of  canonical  variables  proved  to  more  successful  in  separating  the  data.  There  is  some  evidence  that  the  linear 
transformations  of  the  canonical  discriminant  analyses  have  approximated  the  surface  of  separation  in  parts  of  the  domain  (i.e. 
fliere  is  an  edge  appearing  between  the  3rd  and  4th  quadrants  in  Figure  6),  however,  the  surface  of  separation  can  not  be 
described  in  terms  of  a  single  linear  relationship.  This  is  further  demonstrated  by  Figure  7  which  provides  a  view  of  the  domain 
defined  by  the  first  three  canonical  variables. 


15-5 


Functional  reach  Functional  reach 

Figure  4.  Test  1  failures  for  30  and  1 10  degree  seat  ramps. 


Figure  5.  Test  3  failures  for  the  30  degree  seat  ramp. 

The  rejection  rates  for  each  of  10  independent  populations  of  SAFT  manikins  are  shown  in  Table  3.  For  a  geometry  that 
satisfied  the  CADRE  17-member  set,  it  can  be  seen  that  Test  3  failures  exceeds  the  nominal  5-6%  rejection  rate  expected  from 
the  use  of  CADRE,  while  Test  1  failures  fall  considerably  under  this  rate. 

TABLE  3 

SAFT  rejection  rates  for  a  workspace  geometry  determined  from  the  17-member  CADRE  of  manikins 

Run  Number  1 _ 2 _ 3 _ 4 _ 5 _ 6 _ 7 _ 8 _ 9 _ 10 

Test  1  2.0  1.5  2.4  2.4  2.3  1.8  2.4  2.3  1.9  2.4 

Test  2  3.5  3.0  3.7  2.5  2.6  3.6  4.0  3.6  2.5  2.9 

Test  3  11.6  9.7  12.5  10.4  12.8  11.3  10.1  11.0  12.4  9.1 

Test  4  4.4  5.4  5.6  6.2  5.6  7.0  5.3  5.8  7.7  6.9 


Mean  S.D. 

2.1  0.32 

3.2  0.55 

11.1  1.26 

5.9  0.93 


15-7 


6.  DISCUSSION 

The  application  of  SAFT  to  the  relatively  simple  workspace  geometries  reported  here,  clearly  demonstrates  the  2  major 
claims  of  this  paper:  (1)  that  the  anthropometric  attributes  that  determine  membership  in  a  particular  category  of  ‘fit’  is  depen¬ 
dent  on  the  specific  workspace  geometry;  and  (2)  that  rejection  regions  can  be  characterized  by  complex  non-linear  surfaces  of 
separation  within  the  anthropometric  data  space.  Therefore,  in  view  of  these  characteristics,  it  is  not  surprising  that  traditional 
techniques  for  the  application  of  anthropometric  data  to  design  have  been  found  to  be  inadequate  in  some  situations  [3].  The 
development  of  selection  criteria,  particularly  those  intended  to  ensure  compatibility  with  existing  workspace  designs,  is  seen  to 
be  a  related  issue.  In  both  design  and  selection,  these  complex  interactions  are  not  to  be  ignored. 

The  SAFT  simulation  program  was  written  to  demonstrate  the  nature  of  this  problem  and  to  create  an  environment  where 
methods  could  be  investigated  for  characterizing  the  regions  of  rejection  for  various  workspace  geometries.  Although  linear 
techniques  such  as  discriminant  analysis  achieved  good  categorization  for  certain  rejection  regions  (e.g.  reach  to  panel),  they 
failed  for  others  (e.g.  pedal  reach).  Some  tentative  efforts  have  been  made  to  use  neural  network  methods  to  partition  the  space. 
Early  efforts  have  been  encouraging,  and  there  are  plans  to  continue  with  this  technology.  Alternatively,  it  is  possible  that  linear 
methods  might  be  made  to  work  if  appropriate  transformations  are  first  made  to  the  data.  This  avenue  will  also  be  explored 
further. 

If  it  is  accepted  that  ‘compatibility’  depends  on  the  interaction  between  an  operator’s  anthropometric  characteristics  and  the 
workspace  geometry,  then  it  raises  questions  about  the  role  of  context  free  (i.e.  geometry  independent)  selection  criteria.  On  the 
other  hand,  selection  criteria  might  be  derived  from  the  characteristics  of  one  or  more  existing  workspaces,  or  from  geometries 
that  are  found  in  various  design  standards  (e.g.  [21])  or  human  engineering  guidelines  (e.g.  [22]).  Such  geometry  specific  selec¬ 
tion  criteria  may  prove  to  be  excessively  restrictive  if  the  rejection  region  of  an  old  geometry  is  the  acceptance  region  of  a  new 
geometry.  This,  however,  should  not  be  seen  as  a  choice  between  one  method  or  the  other.  It  is  suggested  that  an  integrated 
approach  to  selection  and  design  requires  both  approaches,  that  is:  the  establishment  of  a  simple  set  of  context  free 
selection/design  criteria;  and  the  development  of  compatibility  ‘templates’  for  individual  workspace  geometries  and  the  applica¬ 
tion  of  these  templates  in  assigning  operators  to  workspaces. 

The  context  free  selection/design  criteria  should  be  as  simple  as  possible  [23]  and  are  intended  to  truncate  the  distribution 
of  anthropometric  characteristics  and  so  avoid  extreme  outliers.  As  long  as  appropriate  multi-variate  and  distributed  methods  are 
used,  this  strategy  should  provide  the  greatest  freedom  for  designers.  Ideally,  these  context  free  criteria  should  enclose  a  propor¬ 
tion  of  a  target  population  which  provides  a  suitable  pool  of  operator  candidates  for  training.  If  the  purpose  of  these  criteria  is 
merely  to  avoid  extreme  outliers,  then  a  simple  uni-variate  approach  to  setting  rejection  ranges  may  be  adequate.  This  truncated 
multi-variate  distribution  then  becomes  the  basis  for  future  design  exercises.  Design  for  safety  or  critical  performance  of  all 
future  equipment  should  accommodate  a  nominal  100%  of  the  operator  population  specified  by  these  criteria.  Alternatively, 
anthropometric  limits  will  be  established  for  those  workspaces  that  do  not  achieve  this  goal.  Future  design  efforts  should  also 
concentrate  on  developing  workspaces  that  are  more  uni-variate  in  their  compatibility  requirements,  for  example,  through  the  use 
of  seat  mounted  controls  and  helmet  mounted  displays.  Also  certain  geometries  (e.g.  panel  reach  for  the  110  degree  seat  ramp- 
see  Figure  4)  can  facilitate  this  process  by  reducing  compatibility  requirements  to  dependencies  on  single  anthropometric  vari- 
ables. 

The  development  of  compatibility  templates  for  specific  workspace  geometries  is  an  essential  adjunct  to  the  use  of  the  con¬ 
text  free  criteria  in  design.  These  templates  should  focus  on  those  aspects  of  compatibility  that  are  essential  for  the  safe  opera¬ 
tion  of  the  equipment  or  are  essential  for  achieving  a  minimum  acceptable  level  of  performance.  Each  potential  operator  should 
be  screened  against  the  appropriate  template  before  assignment  to  a  specific  workspace.  These  templates  should  only  be  required 
for  existing  workstations  or  for  those  new  workspace  designs  that  are  unable  to  achieve  critical  operation  by  100%  of  the  opera¬ 
tor  population.  In  the  short  term,  these  templates  will  establish  the  effective  selection  criteria.  Until  such  time  as  new  geometries 
achieve  critical  operation  by  100%  of  the  context  free  distribution,  the  ‘working*  selection  criteria  will  be  established  by  the 
intersection  of  sets  of  acceptable  anthropometric  characteristics  (i.e.  the  templates)  derived  from  a  specific  group  of  workspaces. 
This  group  will  include  all  workspaces  on  the  operators’  critical  career  path  (i.e.  training  aircraft),  plus  a  selection  of  operational 
workstations  that  might  range  from  a  single  type,  to  all  types  in  the  inventory.  If  selection  and  design  are  tied  together  in  this 
fashion,  the  process  should  evolve  over  time  from  an  initial  set  of  quite  complex  rules  for  selection,  as  established  from  the 
templates,  to  the  simple  context  free  criteria  discussed  above. 

It  has  been  argued  throughout  this  paper  that  a  multi-variate  distributed  approach  must  be  taken  in  the  application  of 
anthropometric  data  to  design.  Such  an  approach  is  also  critical  in  developing  selection  criteria,  particularly  in  the  establishment 
of  compatibility  templates.  Although  a  CADRE  of  manikins  chosen  in  the  style  of  Bittner  et  al.  [14],  may  be  adequate  for  estab¬ 
lishing  the  critical  dimensions  of  a  workstation,  this  limited  representation  of  the  data  space  has  little  interpretative  power  once 
rejection  regions  cut  the  enclosing  boundary.  This  was  demonstrated  in  the  use  of  the  17-member  CADRE  to  design  a 
workspace  which  was  subsequently  tested  against  samples  drawn  from  throughout  the  anthropometric  data  space.  The 
discrepancy  between  the  SAFT  rejection  rates  (see  Table  3)  and  the  predicted  6%  rejection  rate  for  CADRE,  suggests  the 
existence  of  either  Type  A  or  B  (Figure  1)  rejection  regions  for  this  geometry.  For  those  ‘rejection’  criteria  that  imply  impaired 
operability  rather  than  system  failure  or  dangerous  operation,  the  requirement  to  keep  all  such  regions  external  to  the  enclosing 
boundary  can  result  in  overly  conservative  design  solutions.  Such  conservatism  is  not  without  cost  as  it  leads  to  greater  size, 
larger  ranges  of  adjustment  and  added  complexity. 


7.  CONCLUSIONS 

Although  it  is  recognised  that  physical  compatibility  with  a  workspace  is  likely  to  depend  on  an  interaction  between  an 
operator’s  anthropometric  characteristics  and  workspace  geometry,  traditional  methods  for  the  application  of  anthropometric  data 
to  both  design  and  the  development  of  selection  criteria  appear  to  place  little  emphasis  on  this  knowledge.  The  geometry 
specific  nature  of  anthropometric  compatibility,  and  the  need  for  a  non-linear  multivariate  approach  to  design,  were  demon¬ 
strated  through  the  use  of  a  computer  simulation  program  called  SAFT  (Simulated  Anthropometric  Fitting  Trial). 


15-8 


In  view  of  fliese  characteristics,  it  is  suggested  that  a  two  tiered  approach  to  selection/design  is  required,  namely:  the 
development  of  simple  geometry  free  criteria  for  use  in  design  and  subsequently  for  selection;  and  a  set  of  compatibility  ‘tem¬ 
plates’  for  screening  potential  operators  for  their  suitablity  to  occupy  specific  workspaces.  In  the  short  term,  selection  criteria 
would  be  determined  from  the  intersection  of  some  set,  or  subset,  of  the  acceptable  regions  defined  by  these  templates.  Such  cri¬ 
teria  are  likely  to  be  complex,  non-linear,  multivariate  functions  of  anthropometric  variables.  But  if  new  workstations  are 
designed  in  accordance  with  the  simple  geometry  free  criteria,  then  the  requirements  for  selection  should  relax  over  time  to 
match  these  same  criteria.  It  is  likely,  however,  that  compatibility  templates  will  still  have  to  be  developed  for  certain 
workspaces  within  a  class  of  equipment,  possibly  due  to  constraints  or  trade-offs  which  occur  in  the  design  process.  The  restric¬ 
tions  imposed  by  these  templates  may  become  selection  criteria  for  just  that  item  of  equipment  (career  streaming),  or  they  may 
become  part  of  the  general  criteria  for  selection  (‘fit  to  fly  all’),  depending  on  resource  utilisation  policy. 


References 

1.  Lueder,  R.  Seat  height  revisited*  Human  Factors  Society  Bulletin .  29:  4-5,  1986. 

2.  KROEMER,  K.  H.  E.  Letter  to  the  Editor.  Human  Factors  Society  Bulletin .  30:  6,  1987. 

3.  KLEEMAN  JR.,  W.  B.  A  different  way  to  use  anthropometric  data  as  a  tool  for  computer  terminal  design.  Human  Factors 

Society  Bulletin .  30:  4-6,  1987. 

4.  MORONEY,  W.  F.  and  M.  J.  SMITH.  Empirical  reduction  in  potential  user  population  as  the  result  of  imposed  multivariate 
anthropometric  limits .  NAMRL-1164,  Naval  Aerospace  Medical  Research  Laboratory,  Pensacola,  Florida,  USA,  1972. 

5.  WHITE,  R.  M.  The  utilisation  of  military  anthropometry  for  aircraft  cockpit  design.  In  Problems  of  the  Cockpit 
Environment  ( AGARD-CP-55 ),  Advisory  Group  for  Aerospace  Research  and  Development,  Neuilly-sur-Seine,  Fiance  15-1 
to  15-9,  1970. 

6.  ROBINETTE,  K.  and  T.  CHURCHILL.  Design  criteria  for  characterizing  individuals  in  the  extreme  upper  and  lower  body 

size  ranges .  AMRL-TR-79-33,  United  States  Air  Force  Aerospace  Medical  Research  Laboratories,  Wright  Patterson  Air 
Force  Base,  Ohio,  USA,  1979. 

7.  ROEBUCK  Jr.,  j.  A.,  K.  H.  E.  KROEMER  and  W.  G.  THOMSON.  Engineering  Anthropometry  Methods .  John  Wiley  &  Sons, 
New  York,  USA,  1975. 

8.  VAN  COTT,  H.  P.  and  R.  G.  KlNKADE  (Eds.).  Human  Engineering  Guide  to  Equipment  Design .  John  Wiley  and  Sons, 
New  York,  USA,  1972. 

9.  KENNEDY,  K.  W.  Workspace  evaluation  and  design:  USAF  drawing  board  manikins  and  the  development  of  cockpit 
geometry  design  guides.  In  Anthropometry  and  Biomechanics:  Theory  and  Application ,  EASTERBY,  R.,  K.  H.  E. 
KROEMER  and  D.  B.  CHAFFIN  (Eds.).  Plenum  Press,  New  York,  USA,  205-213,  1982. 

10.  RYAN,  P.  W.  Cockpit  geometry  evaluation ,  Phase  II:  Final  Report .  Volume  //-  Human  data, .  JAN  AIR  Report  700202, 
Department  of  the  Navy,  Arlington,  Virginia,  USA,  1970. 

11.  Kingsley,  E.  C.,  N.  A.  SCHOFIELD  and  K.  CASE.  A  computer  aid  for  man  machine  modelling.  Computer  Graphics  15* 
163-169,  1981. 

12.  EVANS,  S.  M.,  M.  j.  Himes  and  P.  E.  KIKTA.  Biomechanics  and  anthropometry  for  cockpit  and  equipment  design . 
AMRL-TR-77-7,  United  States  Air  Force  Aerospace  Medical  Research  Laboratories,  Wright  Patterson  Air  Force  Base 
Ohio,  USA,  1976. 

13.  Bitiner  Jr.,  A.  C.  Computerized  accommodated  percentage  evaluation:  review  and  prospectus.  In  Proceedings  of  the  6th 
Conrgess  of  the  International  Ergonomics  Association  (Old  World >  New  World,  One  World,  Human  Factors  Society  Santa 
Monica,  California,  USA,  157-164,  1976. 

14.  Bittner  Jr.,  a.  v.,  F.  A.  Glenn,  r.  M.  Harris,  H.  P.  iavecchia  and  R.  J.  wherry  Jr..  CADRE:  A  family  of 
manikins  for  workstation  design.  In  Trends  in  Ergonomics/Human  Factors  TV,  ASFOUR,  S.  S.  (Ed.).  Elsevier  Science 
Publishers  B.V.  (North-Holland),  New  York,  USA,  New  York,  USA,  733-740,  1987. 

15.  Hendy,  K.  C.,  K.  W.  Anderson  and  D.  M.  Drumm.  a  graphic  design  aid  for  seating  and  workplace  design.  ARL- 
SYS-REPORT  29,  Aeronautical  Research  Laboratories,  Melbourne,  Australia,  1984. 

16.  ROTHWELL,  P.  L.  and  R.  A.  PIGEAU.  Anthropometric  accommodation  of  females  in  Canadian  Forces  aircraft  crew 
stations.  In  Proceedings  of  AGARD  AMP  Symposium  on  eRecruiting,  Selection,  Training  and  Military  Operations  of 
Female  Aircrew’,  Advisory  Group  for  Aerospace  Research  and  Development,  Neuilly-sur-Seine,  France,  1990. 

17.  STEWART,  L.  E.  1985  anthropometric  survey  of  Canadian  Forces  aircrew.  Technical  Report  85-12-01,  Defence  and  Civil 
Institute  of  Environmental  Medicine,  Downsview,  Ontario,  Canada,  1985. 

18.  Dixon,  w.  J.,  M.  B.  Brown,  L.  Engelman,  j.  w.  Frane,  m.  A.  Hill,  r.  I.  jennrich  and  j.  D.  toporek  (Eds.). 
BMDP  Statisical  Software .  University  of  California  Press,  Berkeley,  California,  USA,  1983. 

19.  MACSPIN.  MACSPIN  2.0:  User  Manual.  D2  Software  Inc.,  Austin,  Texas,  USA,  1989. 

20.  SAS.  SAS  Usef  s  Guide:  Statistics,  Version  5  Edition.  SAS  Institute  Inc.,  Cary,  North  Carolina,  USA,  1985. 

21.  MIL-STD-  1333B.  Aircrew  Station  Geometry  for  Military  Aircraft .  Department  of  Defense,  Washington  D.C.,  USA,  1987. 

22.,  MIL-STD- 1472C.  Human  Engineering  Design  Criteria  for  Military  Systems,  Equipment  and  Facilities .  Department  of 
Defense,  Washington,  D.C.,  USA,  1984. 

23.  Hendy,  K.  C.  The  requirement  for  anthropometric  selection  criteria  for  all  aircraft  types.  In  Proceedings  of  the 
Symposium  on  Medical  Fitness  for  Flying 21st  Meeting  of  the  Air  Standardization  Coordinating  Committee  Working 
Party  61  (Aerospace  Medicine  and  Life  Support  Systems, ),  Air  Standardisation  Coordinating  Committee,  Washington  D.C., 


