Navy  Personnel  Research  and  Development  Center 

San  Dtago,  C A  92 1 52-6800  TN-90- 1 8  April  1 990 


AD-A221  462 


DT1C 


ELECTI-! 
MAYO  8 1990 


Real-time  Measurement  of 
Mental  Workload  Using 
Psychophysiological  Measures 


Darryl  Humphrey 
Erik  Sirevaag 
Arthur  F.  Kramer 
Axel  Mecklinger 


Approved  (or  public  release,  distribution  is  unlimited 


NPRDC-TN-90-1S 


April  1990 


Real-time  Measurement  of  Mental  Workload  Using 
Psychophysiological  Measures 


Darryl  Humphrey 
Erik  Sirevaag 
Arthur  F.  Kramer 
University  of  Illinois 
Champaign,  Illinois  61820 


Axel  Mecklinger 
Universitaet  Berlin 


Reviewed  and  released  by 
J.  C.  McLachlan 

Director,  Training  Systems  Department 


Approved  for  public  release; 
distribution  is  unlimited. 


Navy  Personnel  Research  and  Development  Center 
San  Diego,  California  92152-6800 


Public  reporting  burden  for  thii  collection  of  information  is  esumited  to  avenge  1  hour  per  response,  including  the  time  for  reviewing  instructions,  searching  existing  d*u  sources,  gai 
and  maintaining  the  data  needed,  and  completing  and  reviewing  the  collection  of  information.  Send  comments  regarding  this  burden  estimate  or  any  other  aspect  of  this  collection  of  ini 
tion,  including  suggestions  for  reducing  this  burden,  to  Washington  Headquarters  Services,  Directorate  for  Information  Operations  and  Reports,  1215  Jefferson  Davis  Highway,  Suite 
Arlington,  YA  22202-4302,  and  to  the  Office  of  Management  and  Budget,  Paperwork  Reduction  Project  (0704-01 88),  Washington,  DC  20503. 


1.  AGENCY  USE  ONLY  (Leave  blanK) 


2.  REPORT  DATE 
April  1990 


4.  TITLE  AND  SUBTITLE 

Real-Time  Measurement  of  Mental  Workload  Using  Psychophysiological  Measures 


IEPORT  TYPE  AND  DATE  COVERED 
Interim-Jan  89-Dec  89 


5.  FUNDING  NUMBERS 
Program  Element  0602234N, 
Work  Unit  PR-RS34H21 .01 


6  AUTHOR(S) 

Darryl  Humphrey,  Erik  Sircvaag,  Arthur  F.  Kramer,  and  Axel  Mecklinger 


7.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESSEES) 

Department  of  Psychology,  University  of  Illinois  at  Urbana-Champaign 
603  East  Daniel  Street, 

Champaign,  IL  61820 


9  SPONSORING/MONiTORING  AGENCY  NAME(S)  AND  ADDRESS(ES) 
Office  of  Naval  Technology  (Code  222) 

Arlington,  VA  22217-5000 


8.  PERFORMING  ORGANIZATION 
REPORT  NUMBER 
NPRDC-TN-90- 1 8 


10.  SPONSORING/MONITORING 
AGENCY  REPORT  NUMBER 


1 1 .  SUPPLEMENTARY  NOTES 

Presented  at  the  Third  Annual  Workshop  on  Space  Operations,  Automation  and  Robotics;  Houston,  TX,  1989.  Sponsor  id  ii 
cooperation  with  the  Office  of  Naval  Research,  Code  1142PS  (Dr.  Hawkins).  Monitored  by  Navy  Personnel  Research  am 
Development  Center  (Dr.  L,  Trejo). 


1 2a.  DISTRIBUTION/AVAILABILITY  STATEMENT 

Approved  for  public  release;  distribution  is  unlimited. 


12b.  DISTRIBUTION  CODE 


1  ^ABSTRACT  (Maximum  200  words) 
^The  primary  goal  of  the  rcsearc 


^-The  primary  goal  of  the  research  was  to  explore  the  utility  of  event-related  potentials  (ERPs)  as  real-time  measures  of  met 
workload.  Subjects  performed  a  six-gauge  monitoring  task  and  a  mental  arithmetic  task  concurrently  and  at  several  difficulty  lev 
Difficulty  was  varied  in  terms  of  gauge  predictability  and  by  using  two  or  three  column  arithmetic  problems.  A  booLstrapping  appro; 
was  adopted  in  which  1,000  samples  of  n  trials  (n  =  1, 3,  5, ...  65  single  trials)  were  classified  as  to  mental  workload  level  using  E 
measures  (P300  and  slow  wave  amplitude).  Classification  accuracies  of  85  percent  were  achieved  with  25  trials.  Results  arc  discus 


in  terms  of  potential  enhancements  for  real-time  recording  of  performance  monitoring. 


r  ocfi\rort 


14.  SUBJECT  TERMS 

^•Mental  workload,  event-related  potentials,  real-time  metrics 

to 1 J  ’ '  _ 

■j 

17.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICA¬ 
TION  OF  REPORT 
UNCLASSIFIED 

18.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICA¬ 
TION  OF  THIS  PAGE 
UNCLASSIFIED 

19.  SECURITY  CLASSIFICA¬ 
TION  OF  ABSTRACT 
UNCLASSIFIED 

16.  PRICE  CODE 


20,  LIMITATION  OF  ABSTRACT 


NSN  7540-0 1  -280-5500 


UNLIMITED 


Rtanrbirri  Forin  PQR  /Rpv  9-AQl 


FOREWORD 


This  study  explored  the  utility  of  event-related  potentials  (ERPs)  as  real-time  measures  of 
mental  workload.  Classification  accuracies  of  86  percent  were  achieved  with  25  trials.  Results  are 
discussed  in  terms  of  potential  enhancements  for  real-time  recording. 

This  research  was  sponsored  by  the  Office  of  Naval  Technology  (Code  222)  under  Program 
Element  0602234N  and  Work  Unit  PR-RS34H21.01.  Dr.  L.  J.  Trejo  served  as  the  contracting 
officer’s  representative. 


J.  C.  McLACHLAN 
Director,  Training  Systems  Department 


•  Accesion  For 

)  .  . 

WTIS  CRA&I 
DTIC  TAB 
Unannounced 
Justification 

xJ 

o 

□ 

f  Bv 

J  Distribution/ 

Availability  Codes 

Avail  and  /  or 

Dist 

Special 

la-i 

__ _ 

v 


>1  - 

■<"  ?  '  Wl 

*  !«.  if  >\j 


.  l0-.\oh\e  copv 

Best  Ma''aD 


SUMMARY 


The  research  presented  here  derives  from  an  expensive  series  of  investigations  that  have 
demonstrated  the  utility  of  event-related  brain  potentials  (ERP)  in  the  assessment  of  residua! 
capacity  during  the  acquisition  and  performance  of  a  variety  of  perceptual -moior  and  cognitive 
tasks.  The  primary  goal  of  this  study  was  to  explore  the  utility  of  ERPs  as  real-time  measures  of 
mental  workload.  If  physiological  data,  and  ERPs  in  particular,  are  to  serve  as  real-time  measures 
of  operator  mental  load,  the  amount  of  data  necessary  to  reliably  discriminate  among  levels  of 
workload  must  be  determined.  To  this  end,  subjects  performed  two  different  tasks  both  separately 
and  together.  One  task  required  that  subjects  monitor  a  bank  of  constantly  changing  gauges  and 
detect  critical  deviations.  The  second  task  was  mental  arithmetic.  Difficulty  was  varied  by 
requiring  subjects  to  perform  operations  on  two  or  three  columns  of  numbers.  Two  conditions  that 
could  easily  be  distinguished  on  the  basis  of  performance  measures  were  selected  for  the  real-time 
evaluation  of  ERPs.  A  bootstrapping  approach  was  adopted  in  which  2,000  samples  of  n  trails 
(n  =  1,  3,  5,  ...  65  single  trials)  were  classified  using  several  measures  of  P300  and  slow  wave 
amplitude.  Classification  accuracies  of  85  percent  were  achieved  with  25  trials.  The  results  are 
discussed  in  terms  of  enhancing  real-time  recording  of  physiological  measures. 


vii 


CONTENTS 


Page 

INTRODUCTION .  1 

METHODS .  2 

Subjects . 2 

Tasks . 2 

Monitoring  Task . 2 

Mental  Arithmetic  Task .  3 

ERP  Recording  System .  4 

Data  Analysis  Procedures . 4 

RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION .  5 

Effects  of  Experimental  Manipulation .  5 

Real-time  Analysis  of  Mental  Workload .  8 

CONCLUSIONS  AND  FUTURE  DIRECTIONS .  1 1 

REFERENCES .  13 

DISTRIBUTION  LIST .  15 

LIST  OF  FIGURES 

1 .  Gauge  reset  (hit)  accuracy  in  the  monitor) ng  task .  6 

2.  Gauge  reset  reaction  time  (RT)  in  the  monitoring  task .  6 

3.  Accuracy  in  the  arithmetic  task .  7 

4.  Reaction  time  (RT)  in  the  arithmetic  task .  7 

5.  Grand  average  ERPs  recorded  at  Pz  for  two  gauge  events  in  two  conditions .  9 

6.  Classification  accuracy  as  a  function  of  the  number  of  trials  per  measure 

for  subject  2 .  10 

7.  Classification  accuracy  as  a  function  of  the  number  of  trials  per  measure 

for  subject  3 .  10 


ix 


INTRODUCTION 


The  research  presented  here  derives  from  an  extensive  series  of  investigations  that  have 
demonstrated  the  utility  of  event-related  brain  potentials  (ERPs)  in  the  assessment  of  residual 
capacity  during  the  acquisition  and  performance  of  a  variety  of  perceptual-motor  and  cognitive 
tasks  (Donchin,  Kramer,  &  Wickens,  1986;  Kramet,  1987),  The  focus  of  the  present  study  was  to 
assess  the  feasibility  of  employing  ERPs  as  on-line  measures  of  mental  workload.  If  physiological 
data,  and  ERPs  in  particular,  are  to  serve  as  real-ume  measures  of  operator  mental  load,  the  amount 
of  data  (e.g.,  seconds,  minutes)  necessary  to  reliably  discriminate  among  levels  of  workload  must 
be  determined.  This  question  will  be  addressed  in  the  present  study  by  adopting  a  bootstrapping 
approach  to  examining  the  classification  accuracy  of  ERP  measures  with  from  1  to  65  seconds  of 
data.  However,  before  describing  the  experiment  in  detail,  let  us  briefly  discuss  the  previous 
research  that  suggests  that  ERPs  provide  a  sensitive  and  reliable  measure  of  mental  workload  in  an 
off-line  context. 

Several  recent  studies  have  illustrated  the  usefulness  of  the  ERP,  and  more  specifically  the 
P300  component,  as  an  index  of  processing  resources  (Horst,  Munson,  Ruchkin,  1984;  Israel, 
Chesney,  Wickens,  &  Donchin,  1980;  Kramer,  1987;  Kramer  &  Strayer,  1988;  Kramer,  Wickens, 
&  Donchin,  1983,  1985;  Kramer,  Wickens,  Vanasse,  Heffley,  &  Donchin,  1981;  Natani  &  Goner, 
1981;  Sirevaag,  Kramer,  Coles,  &  Donchin,  1989).  The  general  paradigm  employed  in  these 
studies  requires  subjects  to  perform  two  tasks  concurrently.  One  task  is  designated  as  primary  and 
the  other  task  as  secondary.  Subjects  are  instructed  to  maximize  their  performance  on  the  primary 
task  and  devote  any  additional  resources  to  the  performance  of  the  secondary  task. 

Primary  tasks  have  included  system  monitoring,  decision  malting,  and  manual  control. 
Secondary  tasks  have  required  subjects  to  discriminate  between  tones  of  different  frequencies  or 
lights  of  different  intensities.  In  general,  the  response  demands  of  the  secondary  probe  tasks  have 
been  minimal,  requiring  subjects  either  to  covertly  count  the  total  number  of  one  type  of  event  or 
respond  to  an  occasional  target  probe. 

ERPs  are  elicited  by  events  in  either  one  or  both  of  the  tasks.  Increases  in  the  perceptual/ 
cognitive  difficulty  of  the  primary  task  result  in  a  decrease  in  the  amplitude  of  the  P300s  elicited 
by  the  secondary  task.  Conversely,  P300s  elicited  by  discrete  events  embedded  within  the  primary 
task  increase  in  amplitude  with  increases  in  primary  task  difficulty.  Furthermore,  changes  in 
response-related  demands  of  a  task  have  little  influence  on  the  P300  (Israel  et  a!.,  1980). 

The  reciprocal  relationship  between  P300s  elicited  by  primary  and  secondary  task  stimuli  is 
consistent  with  the  resource  trade-offs  presumed  to  underlie  dual-task  performance  decrements 
(Kahneman,  1973;  Navon  &  Gopher,  1979;  Sanders,  1979;  Wickens,  1980, 1985).  That  is,  resource 
models  predict  that,  as  the  difficulty  of  one  task  is  increased,  additional  resources  are  reallocated 
to  that  task  in  order  to  maintain  performance,  thereby  depleting  the  supply  of  resources  that  could 
have  been  used  in  the  processing  of  other  tasks.  Thus,  the  P300  appears  to  provide  a  measure  of 
resource  trade-offs  that  can  only  be  inferred  from  more  traditional  performance  measures. 
Furthermore,  P300s  elicited  by  secondary  task  events  are  selectively  sensitive  to  the  perceptual/ 
cognitive  demands  imposed  upon  the  operator.  This  selective  sensitivity  may  be  especially  useful 
in  decomposing  the  changing  processing  requirements  of  complex  tasks  (Kramer  et  al.,  1983). 


i 


One  might  ask  why  ERPs  should  be  used  to  monitor  changes  in  resource  demands  given  that 
several  technically  simpler  approaches  to  the  assessment  of  skill  acquisition  and  mental  workload 
have  already  been  implemented.  Although  numerous  performance-based  measures  of  mental 
workload  exist,  they  suffer  from  several  drawbacks.  First,  some  of  the  measurement  techniques 
require  subjects  to  perform  a  secondary  task  which  frequently  interferes  with  the  performance  of 
the  task  of  interest  (Knowles,  1963;  Rolfe,  1971;  Wickens,  1979).  This  is  clearly  unacceptable  in 
an  operational  environment  in  which  the  safety  of  the  operator  must  be  assured.  Even  in  the 
laboratory  setting,  it  is  difficult  to  determine  which  of  the  two  tasks  generated  an  observed 
performance  decrement  since  the  performance  on  the  two  tasks  is  easily  confounded.  Second, 
performance-based  measures  of  mental  workload  provide  an  output  measure  of  the  operator’s 
information  processing  activities  (e.g.,  reaction  time  (RT),  accuracy).  Thus,  at  best,  performance 
measures  provide  only  an  indirect  index  of  cognitive  function.  Third,  performance  measures  do  not 
always  correlate  highly  with  the  workload  of  the  tasks  (Brown,  1978;  Domic,  1980;  Ogden, 
Levine,  &  Eisner,  1979).  Fourth,  although  subjective  measures  are  relatively  easy  to  collect  and 
possess  high  face  validity,  they  do  not  reflect  the  moment-to-moment  variations  in  workload  that 
can  be  indexed  by  physiological  measures. 

The  present  study  is  part  of  a  continuing  effort  to  explore  the  utility  of  psychophysiological 
measures  of  mental  workload.  A  primary  aim  of  the  project  is  to  determine  the  feasibility  of  on¬ 
line  uses  of  integrated  psychophysiological  and  performance  data.  However,  given  the  magnitude 
of  the  project,  this  report  will  be  confined  to  a  description  of  a  preliminary  examination  of  signal/ 
noise  ratio  parameters  of  ERPs.  More  specifically,  the  functions  that  relate  the  amount  of  ERP  data 
to  discrimination  accuracy  between  workload  conditions  will  be  derived.  In  the  future,  the  general 
analysis  approach  will  be  applied  to  the  performance  data  as  well  as  integrated  performance  and 
physiological  data. 


METHODS 


Subjects 

Four  dextral  subjects  (2  female)  were  paid  $4. 00/hour  plus  a  $l/day  bonus  for  their 
participation  in  two,  2-hour  sessions  and  three,  4-hour  sessions.  All  subjects  had  normal  or 
corrected-to-normal  vision. 

Tasks 

Two  different  tasks  were  performed  both  separately  and  together.  Both  tasks  will  be 
described  in  detail. 

Monitoring  Task 

One  task  consisted  of  monitoring  six  gauges.  The  behavior  of  a  gauge  was  determined  by  the 
interaction  of  four  properties:  speed,  noise  level,  noise  frequency,  and  transients.  The  cursors 
moved  around  the  gauges  at  different  speeds,  a  slower  gauge  taking  longer  to  reach  the  critical 
region.  Noise  level  was  the  amount  that  the  cursor  jumped  about.  The  higher  the  noise  level  was, 
the  larger  were  the  jumps.  These  jumps  may  have  been  in  either  the  forward  or  backward  direction, 
randomly  determined  with  the  constraint  that  the  overall  motion  was  toward  the  critical  region. 


2 


Noise  frequency  determined  how  often  a  gauge  jumped.  Noise  level  and  noise  frequency  interacted 
such  that  the  higher  the  noise  frequency,  the  more  often  jumps  of  a  size  determined  by  the  noise 
level  occurred.  Transients  produced  infrequent  jumps  of  widely  varying  magnitude.  These  jumps 
were  in  addition  to  those  produced  by  the  noise  level  and  noise  frequency. 

The  interaction  of  these  properties  produced  cursor  driving  functions  of  varying 
predictability.  Manipulating  the  driving  functions  allowed  control  over  gauge  monitoring 
difficulty.  The  driving  functions  employed  in  the  high  predictability  (HP)  conditions  were  such  that 
within  a  row  of  three  gauges  the  driving  functions  were  identical  in  terms  of  speed,  noise  level,  and 
noise  frequency;  no  transient  occurred  for  any  gauge.  The  two  rows  differed  in  the  speed  of  cursor 
movement,  speed  being  constant  within  a  row.  For  the  low  predictability  (LP)  conditions,  the 
average  value  for  all  properties  was  equivalent  to  the  HP  conditions;  however,  the  individual 
values  were  varied  with  no  established  correlation  between  any  set  of  gauges.  The  LP  conditions 
contained  three  gauges  with  a  transient.  The  frequency  of  the  transient  was  different  for  each  of  the 
three  gauges. 

The  gauges  were  presented  on  a  CRT  in  front  of  the  subject.  Each  gauge  was  divided  into  12 
regions  (labelled  1  to  12).  In  addition,  each  third  of  the  gauge  was  distinctly  colored  (green,  yellow, 
or  red).  The  critical  level  was  designated  by  the  position  marked  by  the  numeral  9,  which  was  the 
first  region  in  the  red  zone. 

The  purpose  of  this  task  was  to  reset  each  gauge  as  quickly  as  possible  once  its  cursor  had 
entered  the  critical  region.  To  reset  a  gauge,  the  subjects  pressed  one  of  six  keys  after  which  the 
cursor  returned  to  the  starting  position  marked  by  the  numeral  1 .  The  cursors  were  not  continuously 
visible.  To  sample  a  given  gauge,  the  subject  pressed  one  of  a  set  of  six  keys  with  their  left  hand. 
The  cursor  remained  visible  for  1,000  milliseconds.  Simultaneous  sampling  was  not  possible;  the 
cursor  for  one  gauge  only  was  visible  at  any  given  moment. 

Mental  Arithmetic  Task 


The  center  of  each  gauge  served  as  a  display  area  for  the  operands  and  operators  of  the  mental 
arithmetic  trials.  All  of  the  operands  and  operators  were  presented  simultaneously  and  remained  in 
view  until  an  answer  was  entered  or  for  a  maximum  of  30  seconds.  An  answer  window  appeared 
to  the  right  of  the  gauges.  Answers  were  entered  via  the  numeric  keypad  of  the  response  keyboard 
and  appeared  in  the  window  as  they  were  typed.  Completion  was  signaled  by  pressing  the  “enter” 
key  of  the  numeric  keypad.  The  intertrial  interval  varied  from  4  to  15  seconds.  Difficulty  was 
manipulated  by  varying  the  number  of  columns  on  which  operations  were  necessary  to  complete 
the  problem.  The  easy  version  of  the  task  required  operations  on  two  columns  while  the  difficult 
version  of  the  task  required  operations  on  three  columns  of  numbers.  Henceforth,  these  versions  of 
the  tasks  will  be  referred  to  as  A2  and  A3,  respectively.  Operations  included  addition  and 
multiplication. 


Subjects  participated  in  five  sessions.  The  first  two  sessions  constituted  training.  The  order 
of  the  conditions  in  the  training  sessions  was  single  task  conditions,  starting  with  the  easy 
conditions  progressing  to  the  difficult  conditions,  followed  by  the  dual  task  conditions.  In  the  final 
three  sessions,  the  subject  performed  the  eight  conditions  in  a  random  order  determined  by  a  Latin 
square  design.  Only  the  experimental  data  (i.e.,  last  three  sessions)  will  be  presented  in  this  report. 


In  all  sessions,  two  blocks  of  each  condition  were  run  consecutively,  each  block  taking  5  minutes. 
A  5-  minute  break  was  imposed  at  the  halfway  point  in  addition  to  any  breaks  the  subject  requested. 

Performing  the  gauge  monitoring  and  mental  arithmetic  tasks  in  all  possible  combinations 
yields  eight  conditions:  2  task  type  X  2  levels  of  difficulty  X  2  task  pairings  (single  or  dual  task 
condition). 


ERP  Recording  System 


Electroencephalographic  (EEG)  activity  was  recorded  from  three  midline  sites  (Fz,  Cz,  Pz 
according  to  the  International  10-20  system;  Jasper,  1958)  referenced  to  averaged  mastoids.  All 
electrodes  were  Sensormedics1  Ag/AgCL  electrodes  The  scalp  electrodes  were  affixed  with  Grass 
EC2  electrode  cream.  The  forehead  ground,  mastoid,  and  electrooculogram  (EOG)  electrodes  were 
affixed  with  the  Grass  cream  and  electrode  collars.  Vertical  EOG  was  recorded  from  electrodes 
above  and  below  the  right  eye.  Horizontal  EOG  was  recorded  from  electrodes  lateral  to  each  eye. 
All  electrode  impedances  were  maintained  below  10  kohms. 


The  EEG  and  EOG  were  amplified  by  Grass  12A5  amplifiers  with  a  10-second  time  constant 
and  a  low-pass  filter  of  100  Hz,  3  dB/octave  roll-off.  The  recording  epoch  was  1 ,300  milliseconds 
beginning  100  milliseconds  prior  to  an  event.  The  data  channels  were  digitized  every  5 
milliseconds  and  were  also  filtered  off-line  (-3  dB  at  6.89  Hz,  0  dB  at  22.22  Hz)  prior  to  further 
analysis.  The  psychophysiological  data  collection  was  governed  by  DEC  PDP  1 1/73  computer 
system  (Heffley,  Foote,  Mui,  &  Donchin,  1985).  Artifact  rejection  was  based  upon  the  vertical- 
eye-movement  absolute  deviation  and  performed  off  line.  ERPs  were  recorded  during  the  three 
experimental  sessions. 


Subjects  were  seated  in  a  dimly  lit,  sound  attenuated  booth.  Stimuli  were  presented  on  a  color 
monitor  located  80  centimeters  in  front  of  the  subject.  Stimulus  presentation  and  behavioral  data 
collection  were  performed  by  an  IBM  AT  computer.  A  GSC  Model  901 B  noise  generator  coupled 
with  a  Realistic  SA  150  amplifier  presented  white  noise  at  70  dBA  over  Realistic  Minimus-0.3 
speakers  located  within  the  booth. 


Hata  Anal 

a^utu  a  aiiwi 


vclc  ¥1  ■  « !•*£> 

J  a  a  WVMUI  VO 


ERP  eliciting  events  included  the  sampling  of  critical  and  noncritical  gauges  and  presentation 
of  math  trials.  ERP  measurements  included  P300  latency,  P300  base-to-peak  amplitude,  P300 
base-to-peak  area,  and  slow  wave  area.  Behavioral  dependent  variables  included  accuracy  and 
response  speed  in  both  the  monitoring  and  arithmetic  tasks. 

In  an  effort  to  determine  the  amount  of  physiological  data  needed  to  discriminate  among 
different  experimental  conditions,  wc  applied  a  bootstrapping  approach  to  single  subject  ERP  data. 
Given  the  amount  of  data  collected  in  our  study,  we  decided  to  begin  by  examining  the 
physiological  differences  between  two  conditions  that  could  be  discriminated  on  the  basis  of 
performance  measures:  the  LP  single  task  gauge  condition  and  the  gauge  samples  from  the  LP/A3 
dual  task  conditions.  One  thousand  samples  of  size  n  (n  =  1 ,  3,  5, . . .  65)  were  randomly  selected 


'identification  of  specific  equipment  is  for  documentation  only  and  docs  not  imply  endorsement 


4 


from  single  trial  data  in  each  of  these  conditions.  By  comparing  the  single  trial  samples  with  the 
grand  average  waveforms  for  that  condition,  the  single  trial  may  be  classified  as  a  hit  (belonging 
to  the  criterion  condition),  a  miss  (not  belonging  to  the  criterion  condition),  or  unclassifiable. 
Tabulating  the  classification  results  in  a  2  X  2  contingency  table  enabled  assessment  of  the 
efficiency  of  a  number  of  ERP  measures. 


RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION 


The  results  will  be  organized  in  the  following  manner.  First  to  be  described  are  the  effects  of 
single  and  dual  task  manipulations  on  subjects’  performance  and  ERPs.  These  analyses  will  enable 
determination  of  the  relative  differences  in  performance  and  workload  among  the  single  and  dual 
task  conditions.  Second,  we  will  select  two  experimental  conditions  that  can  be  distinguished  on 
the  basis  of  average  performance  and  ERP  measures.  A  bootstrapping  approach  will  then  be 
applied  to  the  single  trial  ERP  data  in  these  conditions.  In  the  bootstrapping  approach,  1,C00 
samples  of  n  trials  (n  =  1,  3,  5, ...  65  single  trials)  will  be  classified  as  having  come  from  the  two 
experimental  conditions.  The  classification  accuracy  value  derived  from  each  sample  of  1,000 
measures  will  then  be  plotted  as  a  function  of  the  number  of  trials  in  each  of  the  1,000  samples. 
Thus,  this  procedure  enables  the  determination  of  how  changes  in  the  signal/noise  ratio  of  the  ERP 
as  a  function  of  averaging  (e.  g.,  averaging  from  1  to  65  trials  for  each  of  the  1,000  samples) 
translates  into  gains  in  the  accuracy  of  discrimination  between  workload  conditions. 


The  bootstrapping  approach  will  be  applied  to  several  different  ERP  measures  including: 
base-to-peak  measures  of  P300  amplitude  (P3bp),  measures  of  P300  area  (P3area),  cross- 
comelation  measures  of  P300  amplitude  (P3cross),  and  area  measures  of  a  late  slow  wave 
component  (SWarea).  P3bp  was  defined  as  the  largest  positivity  in  the  waveform  between  300  and 
800  milliseconds  post-stimulus  relative  to  a  pre-stimulus  baseline.  The  “stimulus”  could  be  either 
the  presentation  of  the  arithmetic  task  or  the  presentation  of  the  gauges  depending  on  the  condition. 
P3area  was  defined  as  the  area  from  300  to  800  millisecond-post-stimulus.  P3cross  measures  were 
calculated  by  moving  a  300-millisecond  wide  cosine  wave  across  the  period  from  300  to  800 
milliseconds  post-stimulus.  The  slope  of  the  regression  function  at  the  point  at  which  the 
correlation  between  the  cosine  “template”  and  the  ERP  waveform  was  maximized  was  defined  as 
P3cross  SWarea  was  defined  as  the  area  between  750  and  1,100  milliseconds  post-stimulus. 


Effects  of  Experimental  Manipulation 


Figure  1  presents  a  measure  of  the  accuracy  with  which  subjects  reset  the  gauges  in  each  of 
the  monitoring  conditions.  A  “hit”  was  scored  when  subjects  reset  a  gauge  within  10  seconds 
following  the  point  at  which  it  reached  a  critical  value.  As  can  be  seen  from  the  figure,  accuracy 
decreased  from  single  to  dual  task  conditions  and  again  with  an  increase  in  the  difficulty  of  the  dual 
task.  Accuracy  also  appeared  to  differ  as  a  function  of  the  predictability  of  the  gauges  (HP  vs.  LP). 
These  differences  were  confirmed  by  a  repeated  measures  2-way  ANOVA,  with  gauge  (two  gauge 
conditions,  HP  and  LP)  and  task  (three  arithmetic  conditions:  none,  A2,  and  A3)  as  factors. 
Significant  main  effects  were  obtained  for  both  the  gauge  (F  (1,  3)  =  13.2,  p  <  .01)  and  task  (F  (2, 
6)  =  2i,2,  p  <  .01)  factors.  A  marginally  significant  interaction  between  gauge  and  task  factors  was 
also  obtained  (F  (2,  6)  =  2.9,  p  <  .08)  suggesting  a  decrease  in  accuracy  at  the  most  difficult  level 
of  each  of  the  factors. 


5 


Figure  1.  Gauge  reset  (hit)  accuracy  in  the  monitoring  task. 

Figure  2  presents  gauge  reset  RTs  for  each  of  the  monitoring  conditions.  A  repeated  measures 
ANOVA  performed  on  this  data  set  revealed  a  significant  main  effect  for  the  task  factor  (F  (2,  6) 
=  5.4,  p  <  .01).  RT  increased  from  the  single  to  the  dual  tasK  conditions  and  again  from  the  A2  to 
the  A3  versions  of  the  arithmetic  task.  The  main  effect  for  the  gauge  factor  did  not  attain  statistical 
significance.The  interaction  of  the  gauge  and  task  factors  was  not  significant. 


o 

o 

H 

CC 


o> 

7> 

GJ 


None  A2  A3 


Concurrent  Math  Task 


Figure  2.  Gauge  reset  reaction  time  (RT)  in  the  monitoring  task. 


Accuracy  and  RT  measure  arc  presented  for  the  arithmetic  task  in  Figures  3  and  4, 
respectively.  Accuracy  in  the  arithmetic  task  was  higher  when  operations  were  performed  on  two 
columns  than  when  a  three  column  problem  was  performed  (F  (1,3)  =  22.8,  p  <  .01).  RT  was  also 
faster  in  the  A2  than  in  the  A3  version  of  the  arithmetic  task  (F  (1,  3)  =  26.4,  p  <  .01).  Finally,  RT 
in  the  arithmetic  task  increased  with  the  transition  from  the  singie  to  dual  task  conditions  and  again 
when  the  difficulty  of  the  monitoring  task  was  increased. 


None  HP  LP 


Concurrent  Gauge  Task 


Figure  3.  Accuracy  in  the  arithmetic  task. 


Figure  4,  Reaction  time  (RT)  in  the  arithmetic  task. 


7 


Of  the  four  ERP  measures  only  two,  P3bp  and  P3area,  achieved  significance.  For  the  gauge 
task,  a  repeated  measures  3-way  ANOVA  was  performed  with  gauge  (2  types  of  gauge,  HP  and 
LP),  criticality  (presentation  of  a  critical  cursor  or  a  noncritical  cursor),  and  task  (single,  dual  task 
with  A2  or  A3  arithmetic)  as  factors.  Significant  main  effects  were  obtained  for  task  (P3bp:  F  (2, 
3)  =  15.7,  p  <  .01;  P3area:  F  (2,  4)  =  14.4,  p  <  .01)  and  criticality  (P3bp:  F  (1,  2)  =  10.3,  p  <  .05; 
P3area:  F  (1, 2)  =  18.3,  p  <  .05).  There  was  a  marginally  significant  gauge-by-criticality  interaction 
(P3bp:  F  (1,  2)  =  9.1,  p  <  .09;  P3area:  F  (1,  2)  =  11.0  p  <  .08).  A  2-way  ANOVA  for  the  mental 
arithmetic  data  with  math  type  (A2  or  A3  arithmetic)  and  task  (single,  dual  with  HP  gauges  or  dual 
with  LP  gauges)  as  factors  yielded  a  significant  main  effect  for  the  task  factor  (P3bp:  F  (2,  6)  = 
11.9,  p  <  .008;  P3area:  F  (2, 6)  =  11.13,  p  <  .01). 

The  analysis  of  the  RT  and  accuracy  data  suggests  that  both  the  arithmetic  and  monitoring 
conditions  can  be  discriminated  on  the  basis  of  performance  measures.  Furthermore,  since 
increasing  the  difficulty  of  one  task  influences  performance  on  the  other  task,  one  can  be  confident 
that  both  tasks  share  limited  resource(s).  Given  the  demonstrated  differences  in  workload  and 
performance  among  the  experimental  conditions,  let  us  now  turn  to  an  examination  of  the 
feasibility  of  employing  ERPs  as  real-time  measures  of  mental  workload. 

Real-time-  Analysis  of  Mental  Workload 

The  substantial  amount  of  analysis  time  required  that  we  select  two  experimental  conditions 
to  analyze  further.  In  order  to  perform  the  bootstrapping  operation,  it  was  necessary  for  the 
experimental  conditions  to  meet  two  criteria.  First,  there  should  be  a  substantial  number  of  trials 
available  in  the  selected  conditions.  This  was  necessary  since  repeated  samples  of  1,000  trials 
would  be  selected  during  the  bootstrapping  operation.  Second,  the  conditions  should  be 
discriminable  on  the  basis  of  performance  measures.  Based  on  these  criteria,  two  easily 
discriminable  conditions  were  selected  from  the  monitoring  task:  the  single  task  LP  condition  and 
the  dual  task  LP/A3  condition.  Later  analyses  will  examine  conditions  that  are  less  discriminable. 

Figure  5  presents  the  grand  average  ERPs  at  Pz  across  the  four  subjects  for  the  LP  and  LP/ 
A3  conditions.  It  is  important  to  note  that  the  conditions  have  been  further  subdivided  into 
waveforms  that  were  elicited  during  times  at  which  the  gauges  were  in  the  acceptable  range  and 
other  times  in  which  the  gauges  were  in  the  critical  region.  Since  the  gauge  critical  samples  were 
most  closely  associated  with  the  performance  measures,  ERPs  were  employed  to  discriminate 
between  the  LP  and  LP/A3  conditions  during  the  gauge  critical  periods.  Approximately  70  trials 
were  available  in  each  of  these  conditions  for  each  of  the  subjects.  The  bootstrapping  operation  was 
performed  separately  on  the  data  fiom  two  of  the  original  four  subjects. 


8 


Figure  5.  Grand  average  ERPs  recorded  at  Pz  for  two  gauge  events 
in  two  conditions. 


As  described  above,  the  bootstrapping  operation  involved  the  repeated  selection  of  single 
trial  ERPs  from  each  of  the  conditions.  Each  “sample”  comprised  2,000  ERP  measures,  1,000 
selected  from  the  LP  condition  and  1,000  selected  from  the  LP/A3  condition.  Each  of  the  ERP 
measures  was  composed  of  an  average  of  from  1  to  65  single  trial  ERP  waveforms.  Classification 
accuracy  was  determined  by  computing  the  relative  “distance”  of  each  ERP  measure  from  the 
subject’s  grand  average  ERP  measures  in  the  LP  and  LP/A3  conditions.  For  example,  if  a  subject 
possessed  a  grand  average  P300  amplitude  of  50  microvolts  in  the  LP/A3  condition  and  10 
microvolts  in  the  LP  ;ondition,  then  a  single  trial  measure  of  46  microvolts  would  be  classified  as 
LP/A3.  This  classification  procedure  was  performed  for  each  of  the  2,000  ERP  samples  for  each 
of  the  different  pattern  recognition  techniques  (i.e.,  P3bp,  P3area,  P3cross,  SWarea). 


Figures  6  and  7  present  the  classification  functions  for  subjects  2  and  3,  respectively.  The 
figures  depict  the  accuracy  of  classification  (y-axis)  against  the  number  of  single  trial  ERPs  that 
were  averaged  to  produce  each  of  the  HRP  measures  in  a  sample  (each  sample  included  1,000  ERP 
measures).  Several  aspects  of  the  figures  are  noteworthy.  First,  for  each  of  the  pattern  recognition 
techniques  plotted,  classification  accuracy  increased  with  increases  in  the  number  of  trials  per 
measure.  This  continued  improvement  in  classification  accuracy  represents  the  increasing  signal/ 
noise  ratio  as  additional  single  trials  are  averaged  to  produce  each  measure.  Second,  it  is  clear  from 
the  figures  that  ihe  pattern  recognition  techniques  improved  at  different  rates  and  achieved 
different  asymptotic  levels  of  accuracy.  For  both  of  the  subjects,  P3bp  and  P3area  improved  more 
quickly  and  achieved  higher  levels  of  performance  than  SWarea  and  P3cross.  In  fact,  P3cross  is 
not  plotted  for  subject  2  because  it  never  exceeded  50  percent  classification  accuracy.  Third,  for 
both  P3bp  and  P3area,  there  was  a  dramatic  improvement  in  classification  accuracy  with  the 
addition  of  the  first  five  single  trials  followed  by  a  more  gradual  improvement  as  additional  trials 
were  averaged.  Finally’,  it  is  imeresung  w  uutc  uiat  c-xassixicaiion  uccux<xcy  impiuvcu  anu  icucncu 


»*v»v  MYWIU^W.  A  lilUilj,  ii  id  um~iWUll£  IU  ilLHL  L 

different  asymptotic  levels  for  the  two  subjects. 


9 


V) 

g 

o 


<0 

u 

<1) 


O 

O 

o 


V 

CLP 

u 

u 

o 

o 


G 

CP 

O 

u 

o 

CU 


Figure  6.  Classification  accuracy  as  a  function  of  the  number  of  trials 
per  measure  for  subject  2. 


o 

<D 

U 

u, 

o 

O 


c 

<u 

o 

t- 

CJ 


CL 


Number  of  Trials  per  Iteration 


Figure  7,  Classification  accuracy  as  a  function  of  the  number  of  trials 
per  measure  for  subject  3. 


CONCLUSIONS  AND  FUTURE  DIRECTIONS 


The  results  of  this  investigation  provide  support  for  the  utility  of  ERPs  as  real-time  measures 
of  mental  workload.  However,  it  is  important  to  note  that  this  support  is  both  preliminary  and 
tentative  due  to  the  small  number  of  subjects,  conditions,  and  pattern  recognition  techniques 
utilized  in  this  study.  The  result  are  encouraging,  however,  and  suggest  a  number  of  avenues  for 
further  exploration. 

First,  the  differential  efficiency  of  the  pattern  recognition  techniques  suggests  that  other 
techniques  may  offer  improvements  over  the  four  thus  far  examined.  The  present  work  used 
techniques  that  capitalized  on  the  differences  between  only  one  component  of  the  ERP  (i.e.,  either 
P300  or  SWarea).  However,  a  number  of  other  ERP  components  also  appear  to  be  sensitive  to 
variations  in  mental  workload  (Horst  et  al.,  1984;  Kramer,  1987).  Given  that  these  components 
reflect  changes  in  workload  not  indexed  by  P300  and  SWarea,  the  use  of  multivariate  techniques 
such  as  discriminant  functions  should  improve  the  ability  to  discriminate  among  different  levels  of 
workload.  It  might  also  be  possible  to  enhance  discriininability  by  examining  changes  in  the 
frequency  spectra  of  EEG. 

Second,  previous  examinations  of  the  accuracy  of  single  trial  classifications  of  ERPs  have 
suggested  that  the  efficiency  of  different  pattern  recognition  techniques  is  dependent  on  the 
characteristics  of  subject’s  waveforms  (Farwell  &  Donchin,  1988).  For  example,  base-to-peak 
measures  tend  to  be  most  successful  when  the  component  of  interest  is  sharply  defined  while  area 
measures  are  superior  for  wider  components.  Differences  in  the  efficiency  of  P3cross  and  SWarea 
measures  for  the  subjects  2  and  3,  also  appear  to  be  due  to  differences  in  their  waveforms.  Thus, 
these  analyses  suggest  that  it  might  be  useful  to  compile  a  set  of  heuristics  that  map  waveform 
characteristics  to  pattern  recognition  techniques. 

Third,  it  seems  reasonable  to  suppose  tnat  the  ability  to  discriminate  among  workload  levels 
depends  on  the  homogeneity  within  workload  levels.  In  the  present  study,  gauge  samples  in  the  LP/ 
A3  condition  were  selected  irrespective  of  whether  subjects  were  performing  the  arithmetic  task 
(arithmetic  tasks  were  presented  with  inter-stimulus  imervals  of  from  5  to  15  seconds).  Thus,  the 
LP/A3  condition  was  actually  a  mixture  of  single  and  dual  task  trials.  A  comparison  of  the  “dual 
task”  trials  in  the  LP/A3  condition  with  the  LP  condition  should  increase  classification  accuracy. 

Fourth,  while  it  is  important  to  determine  classification  accuracy  in  the  “best-case”  situation, 
it  is  also  imperative  that  classification  functions  are  derived  for  smaller  differences  in  workload. 
Ongoing  efforts  are  aimed  at  examining  the  range  of  sensitivity  of  ERP  measures  to  graded 
differences  in  workload.  Finally,  it  is  clear  that  classification  accuracy  can  be  improved  by 
integrating  psychophysiological  and  performance  measures  into  predicative  and  descriptive 
equations.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to  determine  how  the  relative  sensitivity  of  different 
physiological  and  performance  measures  vary  with  changes  in  task  structure  and  subject  state. 


REFERENCES 


Brown,  I.  (1978).  Dual-task  methods  of  assessing  workload.  Ergonomics,  21,  22-224. 

Donchin,  E.,  Kramer,  A.,  &  Wickens,  C.  (1986).  Applications  of  brain  event-related  potentials  to 
problems  in  engineering  psychology.  In  M.  Coles,  S.  Porges,  &  E,  Donchin  (Eds.), 
Psychophysiology:  Systems,  processes,  and  applications.  New  York:  Guilford. 

Domic,  S.  (1980),  Language  dominance,  spare  capacity  and  perceived  effort  in  bilinguals. 
Ergonomics,  23,  369-377. 

Farwell,  L.,  &  Donchin,  E.  (1988).  Talking  off  trie  top  of  your  head:  Toward  a  mental  prosthesis 
utilizing  event-related  brain  potentials.  Electroencephalography  and  Clinical 
Neurophysiology,  70,  510-523. 

Heffley,  E.,  Foote,  B.,  Mui,  T„  &  Donchin,  E.  (1985).  PEARL  II:  Portable,  laboratory  computer 
system  for  psychophysiological  assessment  using  event  related  brain  potentials. 
Neurobehavioral  Toxicology  and  Teratology,  7,  39y-407. 

* 

Horst,  R.,  Munson,  R.,  &  Ruchkin,  D.  (1984).  Event  related  brain  potential  indices  of  workload  in 
a  single  task  paradigm.  Proceedings  of  the  Human  Factors  Society,  28th  Annual  Meeting.  San 
Antonio,  TX. 

Israel,  J.,  Chesney,  J  ,  Wickens,  C.,  &  Donchin,  E.  (1980).  P300  and  tracking  difficulty:  Evidence 
for  multipie  resources  in  dual  task  performance.  Psychophysiology ,  17,  259-273. 

Jasper,  H.  (1958).  The  ten-twenty  electrode  system  of  the  international  federation. 
Electroencephalography  and  Clinical  Neurophysiology,  10,  371-375. 

Kahneman,  D.  (1973).  Attention  and  effort.  Englewood  Cliffs,  NJ:  Prentice  Hall. 

Knowles,  W.  (1963).  Operator  loading  tasks.  Human  Factors,  5,  155-161. 

Kramer,  A.  (1978).  Event-related  brain  potentials.  In  A,  Gale  &  B.  Christie  (Eds.), 
Psychophysiology  and  the  electronic  workplace.  Sussex,  England:  Wiley. 

Kramer,  A.,  &  Strayer,  D.  (1988).  Assessing  the  development  of  automatic  processing:  An 
application  of  dual-task  and  event-related  brain  potential  methodologies.  Biological 
Psychology,  26,  231-267. 

Kramer,  A.,  Wickens,  C.,  &  Donchin,  F.  (1983).  An  analysis  of  the  processing  demands  of  a 
complex  perceptual-motor  task.  Human  Factors,  25,  597-622. 

Kramer,  A.,  Wickens,  C.,  &  Donchin,  E.  (1985).  The  processing  of  stimulus  attributes:  Evidence 
for  dual-task  integrality.  Journal  of  Experimental  Psychology:  Human  Perception  and 
Performance,  11,  393-408. 


13 


Kramer,  A.,  Wickens,  C,,  Vanasse,  L.,  H“ffley,  E.,  &  Donchin,  E.  (1981).  Primary  and  secondary 
task  analysis  of  step  tracking:  An  event  related  brain  potentials  approach.  Proceedings  of  the 
Human  Factors  Society,  25th  Annual  Meeting.  Rochester,  NY. 

Natani,  K.,  &  Gomer,  F.  (1981).  Electrocortical  activity  and  operator  workload:  A  comparison  of 
changes  in  the  electroencephalogram  and  in  event  related  potentials  (McDonnell  Douglas 
Technical  Report  MDC  E2427).  St.  Louis,  MO:  McDonnell  Douglas  Astronautics  Company. 

Navon,  D.,  &  Gopher,  D.  (1979).  On  the  economy  of  the  human  information  processing  system. 
Psychological  Review,  86,  214-255. 

Ogden,  G.,  Levine,  J.,  &  Eisner,  E.  (1979).  Measurement  of  workload  by  secondary  tasks.  Human 
Factors,  21,  529-548. 

Rolfe,  J.  (1971).  The  secondary  task  as  a  measure  of  mental  load.  In  W.  Singleton,  J.  Fox,  &  D. 
Witfield  (Eds.),  Measurements  of  man  at  work.  London:  Taylor  and  Francis. 

Sanders,  A.  (1979).  Some  remarks  on  mental  load.  In  N.  Moray  (Ed.),  Mental  workload:  Its  theory 
and  measurement.  New  York:  Plenum  Press. 

Sirevaag,  E.,  Kramer,  A.,  Coles,  M.,  &  Donchin,  E.  (1989).  Resource  reciprocity:  An  event-related 
brain  potentials  analysis.  Acta  Psychologica,  70, 77-97. 

Wickens,  C.  (1979).  Measures  of  workload,  stress,  and  secondary  tasks.  In  N.  Moray  (Ed.),  Mental 
workload:  Its  theory  and  measurement.  New  York:  Plenum  Press. 

Wickens,  C.  (1980).  The  structure  of  attentional  resources.  In  R.  Nickerson  &  R.  Pew  (Eds.), 
Attention  and  Performance  VIII.  Hillsdale,  NJ:  Erlbaum. 

Wickens,  C.  (1984).  Processing  resources  !n  attention.  In  R.  Parasuraman  &  D.  R.  Davies  (Eds.), 
Varieties  of  attention  (pp.  63-102).  Orlando,  FL:  Academic  Press. 


14 


DISTRIBUTION  LIST 


Distribution: 

Office  of  Naval  Technology  (Code  20) 

Office  of  Naval  Technology  (Code  222)  (3) 

Director,  Office  of  Naval  Research  (OCNR-10) 

Commanding  Officer,  Naval  Aerospace  Medical  Research  Laboratory,  Pensacola,  FL 
Naval  Health  Research  Center  (Code  60) 

Commander,  Air  Force  Human  Resources  Laboratory,  Brooks  Air  Force  Base,  TX 
Program  Manager,  Manpower  Research  and  Advisory  Service,  Smithsonian  Institution 
Defense  Technical  Information  Center  (DTIC)  (2) 


